# Drug Information
# Source: OpenFDA drug label API

=== ZINC OXIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Skin protectant - Diaper rash treatment Active Ingredient Purpose Zinc Oxide 15%............Sunscreen Active ingredients Purpose Titanium Dioxide (4.9%) Sunscreen Zinc Oxide (21.6%) Sunscreen Uses Helps prevent sunbrun an dphoto damage caused by UVA/UVB exposure. If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see directions) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun. Purpose Sunscreen Purpose Analgesic Protectant Protectant Purpose Skin protectant Balmere Mineral Sunscreen Moisturizer + Primer purpose
Indications: Helps prevent diaper rash. Protects chafed irritated skin due to diaper rash. Helps protect from wetness that causes diaper rash. Temporarily protects and helps relieve minor skin irritation due to diaper rash. Helps treat/heal diaper rash. Uses helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses Helps prevent sunbrun an dphoto damage caused by UVA/UVB exposure. If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see directions) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun. Uses Helps prevent sunburn. Higher SPF gives more sunburn protection If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun. Uses for the temporary relief of anorectal itching and discomfort in the perianal area associated with anorectal inflammation temporarily forms a protective coating over inflamed tissues to help prevent drying of tissues temporarily protects irritated areas temporarily relieves burning provides temporary relief from skin irritations temporarily protects the inflamed irritated anorectal surface to help make bowel movements less painful temporarily protects inflamed perianal skin temporarily relieves the symptoms of perianal skin irritation may provide a cooling sensation Uses temporarily protects minor cuts, scrapes, and burns temporarily protects and helps relieve chapped or cracked skin USE A SOOTHING, CALMING AND HYDRATING MOISTURIZER IN ONE. ALSO HELPS TO REDUCE THE APPEARANCE OF SKIN FLUSHING, REDNESS AND VASCULAR STIMULATION. CONTAINING SPF 30 TO FIGHT THE SIGNES OF AGING. A MUST FOR THOSE SUFFERING WITH SKIN AND SUN SENSITIVITIES. Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Balmere Mineral Sunscreen Moisturizer + Primer Indications & usage
Dosage: Change wet and soiled diapers promptly, cleanser the diaper area, and allow to dry. Push on the bottom to release the product. Heat the product for a few seconds on your hands and apply on baby's bottom. Apply product liberally as often as necessary, with each diaper change, especially at bedtime or anytime when exposure to wet diapers may be prolonged. If necessary, after use, wipe off the excess on the tube contour before closing it. Directions Shake well before use Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Reapply at least every 2 hours Use a water-resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating. Sun Protection Measures Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: Limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. Wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses. Children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor. Directions Shake bottle well before use. • For Sunscreen Use: • apply generously 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply: • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures. Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: • limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. • wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before exposure to the sun. Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating. Reapply at least every 2 hours. Children under 6 months of age, ask physician. to 2 p.m. Wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats and sunglasses. Directions. Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure and as needed. Reapply at least every 2 hours Use a water-resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures. To decrease the risk, regularly use a sunscreen with broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: Limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. Directions adults : when practical, cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly. Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product. Apply to the affected area up to 6 times daily Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Directions for skin protection: apply as needed for diaper rash: change wet and soiled diapers promptly, cleanse the diaper area, and allow to dry apply liberally, as often as necessary, with each diaper change, especially at bedtime or any time when exposure to wet diapers may be prolonged DIRECTIONS APPLY GENEROUSLY WITH FINGERS TO ENTIRE FACE AND NECK. USE DAILY. Directions • apply generously 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply at least every 2 hours • use a water-resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection Measures. Balmere Mineral Sunscreen Moisturizer + Primer Dosage and Administration
Warnings: Allergens: almond For external use only. When using this product avoid contact with eyes. If contact occurs, rinse thoroughly with water. Stop use and consult a doctor if symptoms worsen or last for more than 7 days. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, call a poison control centre or get edical help right away. For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask doctor if rash occurs Warnings For external use only Do not use ​• on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove. Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Warnings For external use only. Do not use on damaged or broken skin. Stope use and ask doctor if rash occurs. When using the product keep out of eyes; rinse with water to remove. If swallowed, get medical help or contact poison control immediately. Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun. Warnings: For external use only Do not use On damaged or broken skin. When using this product keep out of eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash or irritation develops and lasts. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use Warnings For external use only Allergy Alert: Certain persons can develop allergic reactions to ingredients in this product. If the symptom being treated does not subside or if redness, irritation, swelling, pain, or other symptoms develop or increase, discontinue use and consult a doctor Do not use on deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns When using this product do not get into eyes do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days in case of bleeding Keep out of reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Do not use on deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns When using this product do not get into eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms last for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again withinn a few days Keep out of reach of children. WARNING FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY. WHEN USING THIS PRODUCT, AVOID CONTACT WITH EYES. DISCONTINUE USE AND ASK A DOCTOR IF IRRITATION OR RASH DEVELOPS. Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes. Stop use and ask a docor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. If swalled, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Balmere Mineral Sunscreen Moisturizer + Primer Warning Label

=== ALCOHOL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose First aid antiseptic Purpose Antiperspirant Purpose Antiseptic PURPOSE: Alfalfa – Body Aches, Cadmium Sulphuratum - Nervousness, Calcarea Carbonica – Muscle Cramps, Cuprum Metallicum - Fatigue, Ferrum Metallicum – Body Aches, Fucus Vesiculosus - Nervousness, Hypericum Perforatum – Muscle Cramps, Kali Phosphoricum – Jet Lag, Magnesia Phosphorica – Body Aches, Manganum Metallicum - Nervousness, Mercurius Vivus – Jet Lag, Plumbum Metallicum – Body Aches, Silicea - Nervousness, Symphytum Officinale – Muscle Cramps, Tarentula Hispana - Fatigue, X-Ray – Jet Lag, Ytterbium Oxide – Body Aches Purpose Antimicrobial Use For Preparation of Skin prior to an injection
Indications: Use first aid to help prevent the risk of infection in: minor cuts scrapes burns Use Reduces underarm wetness. Uses To decrease bacteria on the skin that could disease. Recommended for repeated use. Uses first aid to help prevent the risk of infection in minor cuts, scrapes, and burns. Uses • To decrease bacteria on the skin that could cause disease. • When water, soap and towel are not available. • Recommended for repeated use. USES: • For the temporary relief of symptoms including: • jet lag • body aches • nervousness • muscle cramps • fatigue These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. They have not been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration. Uses Hand sanitizer to help reduce bacteria on the skin that could cause disease Recommended for repeated use Use For hand washing to decrease bacteria on the skin. For preparation of the skin prior to injection Indications & Usage Section Updated to match label claim Uses first aid antiseptic to help prevent the risk of infection in minor cuts, scrapes, and burns
Dosage: Directions clean the affected area apply a small amount of this product on the area 1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage if bandaged, let dry first Directions Apply to underarms only. Directions - Wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry without wiping. - For children under 6, use only under adults supervision. - Not recommended for infants. Directions clean affected area apply small amount of this product on the area 1-3 times daily if bandaged, let dry first may be covered with a sterile bandage Directions • Spray product in your palm and rub hands together until dry. • For children under 6, use only under adult supervision. • Not recommended for infants. DIRECTIONS: 1-10 drops under the tongue, 3 times a day or as directed by a health professional. Consult a physician for use in children under 12 years of age. Directions Dispense an adequate amount of hand sanitizer Rub hands together until completely dry Directions Wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry without wiping Supervise children in the use of this product Other Information Store at Room Temperature 15 - 30 C (59 - 86 F) Directions clean the affected area discard after a single use may be covered with a sterile bandage
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Flammable Keep away from fire or flame, heat, spark, electrical Do not use as a fuel source Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have kidney disease. Stop use if rash or irritation occurs. Keep Out of Reach of Children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. Use only as directed. Warnings - For external use only: hands. - Flammable, keep away from fire or flame. - Keep out of reach of children. When using this product Keep out of eyes. In case of contact with eyes, flush thoroughly with water. Avoid contact with broken skin. Do not inhale or ingest. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only. if taken internally, serious gastic disturbances will result flammable, keep away from fire or flame. use only in a well-ventilated area; fumes may be toxic Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture woods, animal bites or serious burns. When using this product do not get into eyes do not apply over large areas of the body do not use longer than one week unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if condition persists or gets worse. In case of ingestion, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Flammable. Keep away from fire or flame. When using this product: • Keep out of eyes, ears, or mouth. • In case of eye contact, flush eyes thoroughly with water. • Avoid contact with broken skin. • Do not inhale or ingest. Stop use and ask a doctor if • Redness or irritation develop. • Condition persists for more than 72 hours. • Children should be supervised by an adult when using this product. • If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. WARNINGS: If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, contact a physician or Poison Control Center right away. Tamper Evident: Sealed for your protection. Do not use if seal is broken or missing. Warnings Flammable. For external use only. When using this product do not use in or near eyes. If in eyes, flush thoroughly with water. If irritation or rash appears and persists, stop use and see a physician. If swallowed, call a physician or Poison Control Center immediately. Warnings Flammable, keep away from fire or flame. Do not use in the eyes or apply over large areas of the body. In case of deep or puncture wounds, animal bites, or serious burns, consult a doctor. Do not drink. If taken internally, it will produce serious gastric disturbances Stop use and ask a doctor if Irritation persists for more than 72 hours. Iif swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For External Use Only Flammable, Keep away from fire or flame Flammable, keep away from fire or flame. When using this product do not get in the eyes or apply over large areas of the body in case of deep or puncture wounds, animal bites or serious burns, consult a doctor do not use longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if the condition persists or gets worse Keep out of reach of children.

=== ACETAMINOPHEN ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Pain reliever/fever reducer Purposes Pain reliever/fever reducer Cough suppressant Nasal decongestant Active ingredients (in each 10 mL) Purposes Acetaminophen 325 mg Pain reliever/fever reducer Diphenhydramine HCl 12.5 mg Antihistamine/cough suppressant Phenylephrine HCl 5 mg Nasal decongestant
Indications: Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: headache the common cold backache minor pain of arthritis toothache muscular aches premenstrual and menstrual cramps temporarily reduces fever Uses • temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: • headache • muscular aches • backache • minor pain of arthritis • the common cold • toothache • premenstrual and menstrual cramps • temporarily reduces fever Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: minor pain of arthritis muscular aches backache premenstrual and menstrual cramp toothache the common cold headache toothache temporarily reduces fever Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to a cold minor aches and pains headache nasal and sinus congestion sore throat cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation temporarily reduces fever Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: headache muscular aches backache minor pain of arthritis the common cold toothache premenstrual and menstrual cramps temporarily reduces fever Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: the common cold headache backache minor pain of arthritis toothache muscular aches premenstrual and menstrual cramps temporarily reduces fever Uses temporarily relieves these common cold and flu symptoms: cough nasal congestion minor aches and pains sore throat headache runny nose sneezing temporarily reduces fever controls cough to help your child get to sleep INDICATIONS AND USAGE Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are indicated for the management of mild to moderate pain, where treatment with an opioid is appropriate and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, with opioids, even at recommended doses (see WARNINGS ), reserve acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics) · Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia, · Have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated. Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: headache toothache the common cold muscular aches backache minor pain of arthritis premenstrual and menstrual cramps temporarily reduces fever USES For Arthritis Pain label • temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: • minor pain of arthritis • muscular aches • backache • premenstrual and menstrual cramps • the common cold • headache • toothache • temporarily reduces fever For Muscle Aches & Pain label • temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: • muscular aches • backache • minor pain of arthritis • toothache • premenstrual and menstrual cramps • headache • the common cold • temporarily reduces fever
Dosage: Directions do not take more than directed adults and children 12 years and over take 2 gelcaps every 6 hours while symptoms last do not take more than 6 gelcaps in 24 hours, unless directed by a doctor do not take for more than 10 days unless directed by a doctor children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions • do not take more than directed (see overdose warning) adults and children 12 years and over • take 2 caplets every 6 hours while symptoms last • do not take more than 6 caplets in 24 hours, unless directed by a doctor • do not use for more than 10 days unless directed by a doctor children under 12 years ask a doctor Directions do not take more than directed (see overdose warning). Adults: take 2 tablets every 8 hours with water swallow whole; do not crush, chew, split or dissolve do not take more than 6 tablets in 24 hours do not use for more than 10 days unless directed by a doctor. Under 18 years of age: ask a doctor Directions do not take more than directed (see overdose warning ) do not take more than 6 doses (180 mL) in any 24-hour period measure only with dosing cup provided. Do not use any other dosing device. mL= milliliter keep dosing cup with product adults and children 12 years and over 30 mL every 4 hours chlldren under 12 years of age: do not use Directions do not take more than directed (see overdose warning) adults and children 12 years and over take 2 tablets, every 4 to 6 hours while symptoms last do not take more than 10 tablets in 24 hours, unless directe by a doctor do not use for more than 10 days unless directed by a doctor children 6 to under 12 years take 1 tablet every 4 to 6 hours while symptoms last do not take more than 5 tablets in 24 hours do not use for more than 5 days unless directed by a doctor children under 6 years ask a doctor Directions do not take more than directed (see overdose warning ) adults and children 12 years and over take 2 caplets every 6 hours while symptoms last do not take more than 6 caplets in 24 hours, unless directed by a doctor do not use for more than 10 days unless directed by a doctor children under 12 years ask a doctor Directions this product does not contain directions or complete warnings for adult use do not give more than directed (see Overdose warning ) measure only with dosing cup provided do not use dosing cup with other products dose as follows or as directed by a doctor children 6 to under 12 years of age: 10 mL in dosing cup provided every 4 hours while symptoms last; do not give more than 5 doses in any 24-hour period children under 6 years of age: do not use DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS ). Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse (see WARNINGS ). Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24–72 hours of initiating therapy and following dosage increases with acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and adjust the dosage accordingly (see WARNINGS ). Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets (see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients/Caregivers ). Inform patients and caregivers about the various ways to obtain naloxone as permitted by individual state naloxone dispensing and prescribing regulations (e.g., by prescription, directly from a pharmacist, or as part of a community-based program). Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient (see WARNINGS, Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression, Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ). Consider prescribing naloxone when the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose. Initial Dosage Initiating Treatment with acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets Dosage should be adjusted according to severity of pain and response of the patient. However, it should be kept in mind that tolerance to codeine can develop with continued use and that the incidence of untoward effects is dose related. Adult doses of codeine higher than 60 mg are associated with an increased incidence of adverse reactions and are not associated with greater efficacy. The usual adult dosage is: Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets (codeine 15 mg and acetaminophen 300 mg): Take 1 to 2 tablets every 4 hours as needed for pain. Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets (codeine 30 mg and acetaminophen 300 mg): Take 1 to 2 tablets every 4 hours as needed for pain. Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets (codeine 60 mg and acetaminophen 300 mg): Take one tablet every 4 hours as needed for pain. Single Doses (Range) Maximum 24-Hour Dose Codeine Phosphate 15 mg to 60 mg 360 mg Acetaminophen 300 mg to 1000 mg 4000 mg The prescriber must determine the number of tablets per dose, and the maximum number of tablets per 24 hours, based upon the above dosage guidance. This information should be conveyed in the prescription. Conversion from Other Opioids to acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets There is inter-patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and opioid formulations. Therefore, a conservative approach is advised when determining the total daily dosage of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. It is safer to underestimate a patient's 24-hour acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage than to overestimate the 24-hour acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to overdose. Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions, as well as monitoring for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse (see WARNINGS ). Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration. If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage. If unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed, consider reducing the dosage. Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions. Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets Do not abruptly discontinue acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. Rapid discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. Patients may also attempt to treat their pain or withdrawal symptoms with illicit opioids, such as heroin, and other substances. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the dose of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. It is important to ensure ongoing care of the patient and to agree on an appropriate tapering schedule and follow-up plan so that patient and provider goals and expectations are clear and realistic. When opioid analgesics are being discontinued due to a suspected substance use disorder, evaluate and treat the patient, or refer for evaluation and treatment of the substance use disorder. Treatment should include evidence-based approaches, such as medication assisted treatment of opioid use disorder. Complex patients with co-morbid pain and substance use disorders may benefit from referral to a specialist. There are no standard opioid tapering schedules that are suitable for all patients. Good clinical practice dictates a patient-specific plan to taper the dose of the opioid gradually. For patients on acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. Patients who have been taking opioids for briefer periods of time may tolerate a more rapid taper. It may be necessary to provide the patient with lower dosage strengths to accomplish a successful taper. Reassess the patient frequently to manage pain and withdrawal symptoms, should they emerge. Common withdrawal symptoms include restlessness, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, yawning, perspiration, chills, myalgia, and mydriasis. Other signs and symptoms also may develop, including irritability, anxiety, backache, joint pain, weakness, abdominal cramps, insomnia, nausea, anorexia, vomiting, diarrhea, or increased blood pressure, respiratory rate, or heart rate. If withdrawal symptoms arise, it may be necessary to pause the taper for a period of time or raise the dose of the opioid analgesic to the previous dose, and then proceed with a slower taper. In addition, monitor patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for a long duration and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see WARNINGS ; Withdrawal , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. Directions do not take more than directed adults and children 12 years and over take 2 tablets every 6 hours while symptoms last do not take more than 6 tablets in 24 hours, unless directed by a doctor do not take for more than 10 days unless directed by a doctor children under 12 years: ask a doctor DIRECTIONS For Arthritis Pain Label • do not take more than directed (see overdose warning) adults • take 2 caplets every 8 hours with water • swallow whole; do not crush, chew, split or dissolve • do not take more than 6 caplets in 24 hours • do not use for more than 10 days unless directed by a doctor under 18 years of age • ask a doctor For Muscle Ache and Pain label • do not take more than directed (see overdose warning) adults and children 12 years of age and over • take 2 caplets every 8 hours with water • swallow whole; do not crush, chew, split or dissolve • do not take more than 6 caplets in 24 hours • do not use for more than 10 days unless directed by a doctor children under 12 years • do not use
Warnings: Warnings Liver warning: This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Do not use if you are allergic to acetaminophen or any of the inactive ingredients in this product with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen, ask a doctor or pharmacist. Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease. Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin. Stop use and ask a doctor if new symptoms occur pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present These could be signs of a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Prompt medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. Severe liver damage may occur if you take • more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours • with other drugs containing acetaminophen • 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: • skin reddening • blisters • rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Do not use • with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin Stop use and ask a doctor if • pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • new symptoms occur • redness or swelling is present These could be signs of a serious condition. Overdose warning: In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 6 tablets in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Severe liver damage may occur if you take: more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may inclide: skin reddening blisters rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Sore throat warning: If sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease) or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product. with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or non-prescription). Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease heart disease diabetes high blood pressure thyroid disease trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, or emphysema Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin. When using this product, do not exceed recommended dosage Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occur pain, cough, or nasal congestion gets worse or lasts more than 7 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur cough comes back or occurs with a rash or headache that lasts. These could be signs of a serious condition. Overdose warning: Taking more than the recommended dose (overdose) may cause liver damage. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. The maximum daily dose of this product is 10 tablets (3,250 mg) in 24 hours for adults or 5 tablets (1,625 mg) in 24 hours for children. Severe liver damage may occur if adult takes more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours child takes more than 5 doses in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount taken with other drugs containing acetaminophen adult has 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Do not use with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen, ask a doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to acetaminophen or any of the inactive ingredients in this product Ask a doctor before use if the user has liver disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if the user is taking the blood thinning drug warfarin Stop use and ask a doctor if pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days in adults pain gets worse or lasts more than 5 days in children under 12 years fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days new symptoms occur redness or swelling is present These could be signs of a serious condition. Keep out of the reach of children. Overdose warning: In the case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222) Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. Warnings Liver warning This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. if you are allergic to acetaminophen or any of the inactive ingredients in this product Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease. Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin Stop use and ask a doctor if pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days new symptoms occur redness or swelling is present These could be signs of a serious condition. Overdose warning In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Severe liver damage may occur if your child takes: more than 5 doses in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount with other drugs containing acetaminophen Allergy alert Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Sore throat warning I f sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. to make a child sleepy with any other product containing diphenhydramine, even one used on the skin in a child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your child's prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product. Ask a doctor before use if the child has liver disease heart disease diabetes high blood pressure thyroid disease glaucoma a breathing problem such as chronic bronchitis persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with asthma cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if the child is taking the blood thinning drug warfarin taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product do not use more than directed (see Overdose warning ) excitability may occur, especially in children marked drowsiness may occur sedatives and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occur pain, nasal congestion, or cough gets worse or lasts more than 5 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur cough comes back, or occurs with fever, rash, or headache that lasts. Overdose warning Taking more than the recommended dose (overdose) may cause liver damage. I n case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Quick medical attention is critical even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. WARNINGS Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets contain codeine. Codeine in combination with acetaminophen, is a Schedule III controlled substance. As an opioid, acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets expose users to the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ). Although the risk of addiction in any individual is unknown, it can occur in patients appropriately prescribed acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. Addiction can occur at recommended dosages and if the drug is misused or abused. Assess each patient’s risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse prior to prescribing acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets, and monitor all patients receiving acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets for the development of these behaviors and conditions. Risks are increased in patients with a personal or family history of substance abuse (including drug or alcohol abuse or addiction) or mental illness (e.g., major depression). The potential for these risks should not, however, prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient. Patients at increased risk may be prescribed opioids such as acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets, but use in such patients necessitates intensive counseling about the risks and proper use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets along with intensive monitoring for signs of addiction, abuse, and misuse. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose (see WARNINGS , Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ). Opioids are sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders and are subject to criminal diversion. Consider these risks when prescribing or dispensing acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. Strategies to reduce these risks include prescribing the drug in the smallest appropriate quantity and advising the patient on the proper disposal of unused drug (see PRECAUTIONS ; Information for Patients/Caregivers ). Contact local state professional licensing board or state controlled substances authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product. Opioid Analgesic Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) To ensure that the benefits of opioid analgesics outweigh the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has required a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) for these products. Under the requirements of the REMS, drug companies with approved opioid analgesic products must make REMS-compliant education programs available to healthcare providers. Healthcare providers are strongly encouraged to do all of the following: • Complete a REMS-compliant education program offered by an accredited provider of continuing education (CE) or another education program that includes all the elements of the FDA Education Blueprint for Health Care Providers Involved in the Management or Support of Patients with Pain. • Discuss the safe use, serious risks, and proper storage and disposal of opioid analgesics with patients and/or their caregivers every time these medicines are prescribed. The Patient Counseling Guide (PCG) can be obtained at this link: www.fda.gov/OpioidAnalgesicREMSPCG. • Emphasize to patients and their caregivers the importance of reading the Medication Guide that they will receive from their pharmacist every time an opioid analgesic is dispensed to them. • Consider using other tools to improve patient, household, and community safety, such as patient-prescriber agreements that reinforce patient-prescriber responsibilities. To obtain further information on the opioid analgesic REMS and for a list of accredited REMS CME/CE, call 800-503-0784, or log on to www.opioidanalgesicrems.com. The FDA Blueprint can be found at www.fda.gov/OpioidAnalgesicREMSBlueprint. Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression has been reported with the use of opioids, even when used as recommended. Respiratory depression, if not immediately recognized and treated, may lead to respiratory arrest and death. Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid antagonists, depending on the patient’s clinical status (see OVERDOSAGE ). Carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) retention from opioid-induced respiratory depression can exacerbate the sedating effects of opioids. While serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression can occur at any time during the use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets, the risk is greatest during the initiation of therapy or following a dosage increase. Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24-72 hours of initiating therapy with and following dosage increases of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. To reduce the risk of respiratory depression, proper dosing and titration of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are essential (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Overestimating the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage when converting patients from another opioid product can result in a fatal overdose with the first dose. Accidental ingestion of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets, especially by children, can result in respiratory depression and death due to an overdose of codeine. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help right away in the event of a known or suspected overdose (see PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients/Caregivers ). Opioids can cause sleep-related breathing disorders including central sleep apnea (CSA) and sleep-related hypoxemia. Opioid use increases the risk of CSA in a dose-dependent fashion. In patients who present with CSA, consider decreasing the opioid dosage using best practices for opioid taper (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. Inform patients and caregivers about the various ways to obtain naloxone as permitted by individual state naloxone dispensing and prescribing requirements or guidelines (e.g., by prescription, directly from a pharmacist, or as part of a community-based program). Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help, even if naloxone is administered (see PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients/Caregivers ). Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of other CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient. Also consider prescribing naloxone if the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose. If naloxone is prescribed, educate patients and caregivers on how to treat with naloxone (see WARNINGS , Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse , Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ; PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients/Caregivers ). Ultra-Rapid Metabolism of Codeine and Other Risk Factors for Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression in Children Life-threatening respiratory depression and death have occurred in children who received codeine. Codeine is subject to variability in metabolism based upon CYP2D6 genotype (described below), which can lead to an increased exposure to the active metabolite morphine. Based upon post-marketing reports, children younger than 12 years of age appear to be more susceptible to the respiratory depressant effects of codeine, particularly if there are risk factors for respiratory depression. For example, many reported cases of death occurred in the post-operative period following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy, and many of the children had evidence of being ultra-rapid metabolizers of codeine. Furthermore, children with obstructive sleep apnea who are treated with codeine for post-tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy pain may be particularly sensitive to its respiratory depressant effects. Because of the risk of life-threatening respiratory depression and death: · Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated for all children younger than 12 years of age (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). · Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated for post-operative management in pediatric patients younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). · Avoid the use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in adolescents 12 to 18 years of age who have other risk factors that may increase their sensitivity to the respiratory depressant effects of codeine unless the benefits outweigh the risks. Risk factors include conditions associated with hypoventilation, such as post-operative status, obstructive sleep apnea, obesity, severe pulmonary disease, neuromuscular disease, and concomitant use of other medications that cause respiratory depression (see WARNINGS ). · As with adults, when prescribing codeine for adolescents, healthcare providers should choose the lowest effective dose for the shortest period of time and inform patients and caregivers about these risks and the signs of morphine overdose (see OVERDOSAGE ). Nursing Mothers At least one death was reported in a nursing infant who was exposed to high levels of morphine in breast milk because the mother was an ultra-rapid metabolizer of codeine. Breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. CYP2D6 Genetic Variability: Ultra-Rapid Metabolizers Some individuals may be ultra-rapid metabolizers because of a specific CYP2D6 genotype (e.g., gene duplications denoted as *1/*1×N or *1/*2×N). The prevalence of this CYP2D6 phenotype varies widely and has been estimated at 1 to 10% for Whites (European, North American), 3 to 4% for Blacks (African Americans), 1 to 2% for East Asians (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), and may be greater than 10% in certain racial/ethnic groups (i.e., Oceanian, Northern African, Middle Eastern, Ashkenazi Jews, Puerto Rican). These individuals convert codeine into its active metabolite, morphine, more rapidly and completely than other people. This rapid conversion results in higher than expected serum morphine levels. Even at labeled dosage regimens, individuals who are ultra-rapid metabolizers may have life-threatening or fatal respiratory depression or experience signs of overdose (such as extreme sleepiness, confusion, or shallow breathing) (see OVERDOSAGE ). Therefore, individuals who are ultra-rapid metabolizers should not use acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Prolonged use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets during pregnancy can result in withdrawal in the neonate. Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, unlike opioid withdrawal syndrome in adults, may be life-threatening if not recognized and treated, and requires management according to protocols developed by neonatology experts. Observe newborns for signs of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and manage accordingly. Advise pregnant women using opioids for a prolonged period of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available (see PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients/Caregivers, Pregnancy ). Interactions with Drugs Affecting Cytochrome P450 Isoenzymes The effects of concomitant use or discontinuation of CYP3A4 inducers, CYP3A4 inhibitors, or CYP2D6 inhibitors with codeine are complex. Use of CYP3A4 inducers, CYP3A4 inhibitors, or CYP2D6 inhibitors with acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets require careful consideration of the effects on the parent drug, codeine, and the active metabolite, morphine. CYP3A4 Interaction The concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets with all CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) or discontinuation of a CYP3A4 inducer such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations with subsequently greater metabolism by CYP2D6, resulting in greater morphine levels, which could increase or prolong adverse reactions and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression. The concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets with all CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuation of a CYP3A4 inhibitor may result in lower codeine levels, greater norcodeine levels, and less metabolism via CYP2D6 with resultant lower morphine levels. This may be associated with a decrease in efficacy, and in some patients, may result in signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Follow patients receiving acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and any CYP3A4 inhibitor or inducer for signs and symptoms that may reflect opioid toxicity and opioid withdrawal when acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are used in conjunction with inhibitors and inducers of CYP3A4 (see WARNINGS , Drug Interactions ). If concomitant use of a CYP3A4 inhibitor is necessary or if a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider dosage reduction of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. If concomitant use of a CYP3A4 inducer is necessary or if a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Risks of Concomitant Use or Discontinuation of CYP2D6 Inhibitors The concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets with all CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., amiodarone, quinidine) may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations and a decrease in active metabolite morphine plasma concentration which could result in an analgesic efficacy reduction or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a concomitantly used CYP2D6 inhibitor may result in a decrease in codeine plasma concentration and an increase in active metabolite morphine plasma concentration which could increase or prolong adverse reactions and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression. Follow patients receiving acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and any CYP2D6 inhibitor for signs and symptoms that may reflect opioid toxicity and opioid withdrawal when acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are used in conjunction with inhibitors of CYP2D6. If concomitant use with a CYP2D6 inhibitor is necessary, follow the patient for signs of reduced efficacy or opioid withdrawal and consider increasing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage. After stopping use of a CYP2D6 inhibitor, consider reducing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage and follow the patient for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression or sedation (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Hepatotoxicity Acetaminophen has been associated with cases of acute liver failure, at times resulting in liver transplant and death. Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses that exceed 4,000 milligrams per day, and often involve more than one acetaminophen-containing product. The excessive intake of acetaminophen may be intentional to cause self-harm or unintentional as patients attempt to obtain more pain relief or unknowingly take other acetaminophen-containing products. The risk of acute liver failure is higher in individuals with underlying liver disease and in individuals who ingest alcohol while taking acetaminophen. Instruct patients to look for acetaminophen or APAP on package labels and not to use more than one product that contains acetaminophen. Instruct patients to seek medical attention immediately upon ingestion of more than 4,000 milligrams of acetaminophen per day, even if they feel well. Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets with benzodiazepines and/or other CNS depressants (e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, alcohol). Because of these risks, reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Observational studies have demonstrated that concomitant use of opioid analgesics and benzodiazepines increases the risk of drug-related mortality compared to use of opioid analgesics alone. Because of similar pharmacological properties, it is reasonable to expect similar risk with the concomitant use of other CNS depressant drugs with opioid analgesics (see PRECAUTIONS ; Drug Interactions ). If the decision is made to prescribe a benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant concomitantly with an opioid analgesic, prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use. In patients already receiving an opioid analgesic, prescribe a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant than indicated in the absence of an opioid, and titrate based on clinical response. If an opioid analgesic is initiated in a patient already taking a benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant, prescribe a lower initial dose of the opioid analgesic, and titrate based on clinical response. Follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose (see WARNINGS , Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ). Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are used with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants (including alcohol and illicit drugs). Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use of the benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant have been determined. Screen patients for risk of substance use disorders, including opioid abuse and misuse, and warn them of the risk for overdose and death associated with the use of additional CNS depressants including alcohol and illicit drugs (see PRECAUTIONS ; Drug Interactions , Information for Patients/Caregivers ). Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression in Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease or Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients The use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in patients with acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment is contraindicated. Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets-treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantially compromised respiratory function, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea, even at recommended dosages of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets (see WARNINGS ; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ). Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients because they may have altered pharmacokinetics, including clearance, compared to younger, healthier patients (see WARNINGS ; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ). Monitor such patients closely, particularly when initiating and titrating acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and when acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration (see WARNINGS ; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ). Alternatively, consider the use of non-opioid analgesics in these patients. Interaction with Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) may potentiate the effects of morphine, codeine's active metabolite, including respiratory depression, coma, and confusion. Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets should not be used in patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Adrenal Insufficiency Cases of adrenal insufficiency have been reported with opioid use, more often following greater than 1 month of use. Presentation of adrenal insufficiency may include non-specific symptoms and signs including nausea, vomiting, anorexia, fatigue, weakness, dizziness, and low blood pressure. If adrenal insufficiency is suspected, confirm the diagnosis with diagnostic testing as soon as possible. If adrenal insufficiency is diagnosed, treat with physiologic replacement doses of corticosteroids. Wean the patient off of the opioid to allow adrenal function to recover and continue corticosteroid treatment until adrenal function recovers. Other opioids may be tried as some cases reported use of a different opioid without recurrence of adrenal insufficiency. The information available does not identify any particular opioids as being more likely to be associated with adrenal insufficiency. Severe Hypotension Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets may cause severe hypotension including orthostatic hypotension and syncope in ambulatory patients. There is increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs(e.g., phenothiazines or general anesthetics) (see PRECAUTIONS ; Drug Interactions ). Monitor these patients for signs of hypotension after initiating or titrating the dosage of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. In patients with circulatory shock acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets may cause vasodilatation that can further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. Avoid the use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets with circulatory shock. Serious Skin Reactions Rarely, acetaminophen may cause serious skin reactions such as acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Patients should be informed about the signs of serious skin reactions, and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Risks of Use in Patients with Increased Intracranial Pressure, Brain Tumors, Head Injury, or Impaired Consciousness In patients who may be susceptible to the intracranial effects of CO 2 retention (e.g., those with evidence of increased intracranial pressure or brain tumors), acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets may reduce respiratory drive, and the resultant CO 2 retention can further increase intracranial pressure. Monitor such patients for signs of sedation and respiratory depression, particularly when initiating therapy with acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. Opioids may also obscure the clinical course in a patient with a head injury. Avoid the use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in patients with impaired consciousness or coma. Hypersensitivity/Anaphylaxis There have been post-marketing reports of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis associated with the use of acetaminophen. Clinical signs included swelling of the face, mouth, and throat, respiratory distress, urticaria, rash, pruritus, and vomiting. There were infrequent reports of life-threatening anaphylaxis requiring emergency medical attention. Instruct patients to discontinue acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms. Do not prescribe acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets for patients with acetaminophen allergy (see PRECAUTIONS ; Information for Patients/Caregivers ). Risks of Use in Patients with Gastrointestinal Conditions Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated in patients with known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi. Opioids may cause increases in serum amylase. Monitor patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis, for worsening symptoms. Increased Risk of Seizures in Patients with Seizure Disorders The codeine in acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets may increase the frequency of seizures in patients with seizure disorders, and may increase the risk of seizures occurring in other clinical settings associated with seizures. Monitor patients with a history of seizure disorders for worsened seizure control during acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets therapy. Withdrawal Do not abruptly discontinue acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids. Rapid tapering of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids may lead to a withdrawal syndrome and return of pain [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. Additionally, avoid the use of mixed agonist/antagonist (e.g., pentazocine, nalbuphine, and butorphanol) or partial agonist (e.g., buprenorphine) analgesics in patients who are receiving a full opioid agonist analgesic, including acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. In these patients, mixed agonists/antagonist and partial agonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms [see PRECAUTIONS / Drug Interactions ]. Avoid the use of mixed agonist/antagonist (e.g, pentazocine, nalbuphine, and butorphanol) or partial agonist (e.g., buprenorphine) analgesics in patients who are receiving a full opioid agonist analgesic, including acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. In these patients, mixed agonist/antagonist and partial analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. When discontinuing acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets, gradually taper the dosage (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Do not abruptly discontinue acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ). Symptoms may include: blisters rash skin reddening If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Stop use and ask a doctor if pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days new symptoms occur redness or swelling is present These could be signs of a serious condition. Severe Liver damage may occur if you take • more than 6 caplets in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount • with other drugs containing acetaminophen • 3 or more alcoholic drinks everyday while using this product Allergy alert: acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions Symptoms may include: • skin reddening • blisters • rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated for: · All children younger than 12 years of age (see WARNINGS ) · Post-operative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy (see WARNINGS ). Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated in patients with: · Significant respiratory depression (see WARNINGS ). · Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment (see WARNINGS ). · Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days (see WARNINGS ). · Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus (see WARNINGS ). · Hypersensitivity to codeine, acetaminophen, or any of the ingredients (e.g., anaphylaxis) (see WARNINGS ).
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Anticoagulants Chronic oral acetaminophen use at a dose of 4000 mg/day has been shown to cause an increase in international normalized ratio (INR) in some patients who have been stabilized on sodium warfarin as an anticoagulant. As no studies have been performed evaluating the short term use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in patients on oral anticoagulants, more frequent assessment of INR may be appropriate in such circumstances. CYP2D6 Inhibitors Codeine is metabolized by CYP2D6 to form morphine. The concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., paroxetine, fluoxetine, bupropion, quinidine) can increase the plasma concentration of codeine, but can decrease the plasma concentration of active metabolite morphine, which could result in reduced analgesic efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets is achieved (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). After stopping a CYP2D6 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the codeine plasma concentration will decrease but the active metabolite morphine plasma concentration will increase, which could increase or prolong adverse reactions and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). If concomitant use with a CYP2D6 inhibitor is necessary, or if a CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued after concomitant use, consider dosage adjustment of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and monitor patients closely at frequent intervals. If concomitant use with CYP2D6 inhibitors is necessary, follow the patient for reduced efficacy or signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal and consider increasing the dosage of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets as needed. After stopping use of a CYP2D6 inhibitor, consider reducing the dosage of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression or sedation. CYP3A4 Inhibitors The concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations , with subsequently greater metabolism by CYP2D6, resulting in greater morphine levels, which could increase or prolong adverse reactions and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets is achieved (see WARNINGS ). After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, it may result in lower codeine levels, greater norcodeine levels, and less metabolism via CYP2D6 with resultant lower morphine levels (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ), resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to codeine. If concomitant use of CYP3A4 inhibitor is necessary, consider dosage reduction of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. CYP3A4 Inducers The concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin) can result in lower codeine levels, greater norcodeine levels, and less metabolism via CYP2D6 with resultant lower morphine levels (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ), resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence (see WARNINGS ). After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, codeine plasma concentrations may increase, with subsequently greater metabolism by cytochrome CYP2D6, resulting in greater morphine levels (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ), which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. If concomitant use of a CYP3A4 inducer is necessary, follow the patient for reduced efficacy and signs of opioid withdrawal and consider increasing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage as needed. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider a acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics and other opioids, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Follow patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose (see WARNINGS ). Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Examples of these drugs include, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (used to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) (see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers ). If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets immediately if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The concomitant use of opioids and MAOIs, such as phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid, may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity. Advise patients taking acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets not to use MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. If urgent use of an opioid is necessary, use test doses and frequent titration of small doses of other opioids (such as oxycodone, hydrocodone, oxymorphone, hydrocodone, or buprenorphine) to treat pain while closely monitoring blood pressure and signs and symptoms of CNS and respiratory depression. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics The concomitant use of opioids with other opioid analgesics, such as butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, may reduce the analgesic effect of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Advise patient to avoid concomitant use of these drugs. Muscle Relaxants Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. If concomitant use is warranted, monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose (see WARNINGS ). Diuretics Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. If concomitant use is warranted, monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Anticholinergic Drugs The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. If concomitant use is warranted, monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs.

=== SALICYLIC ACID ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Acne medication Purpose Acne treatment Purpose Salicylic Acid Acne Treatment Purpose Wart removal Purpose Antidandruff
Indications: Use for the treatment of acne Uses clears acne blemishes and allows skin to heal helps prevent new acne blemishes from forming Uses Skin cleanser for the treatment of acne. Uses Anti-acne Tighten skin Moisturize Improve fine lines Whitening Uses for the treatment of acne Uses For the treatment of acne Helps prevent new acne blemishes Use For the removal of common warts. The common wart has a rough 'cauliflower-like' appearance.. Uses controls the symptoms of dandruff fights recurrence of the symptoms of dandruff controls scalp itching associated with dandruff For treatment of acne
Dosage: Directions wet face, apply to hand, massage face gently. Rinse well. Use up to twice daily. avoid contact with eyes. If contact occurs, flush thoroughly with water. Directions use twice daily shake well, wet face, then work product into a lather massage onto face avoiding the eyes rinse well Directions cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying medication cover the entire affected area with a thin layer 1 to 3 times daily because excessive drying of the skin may occur, start with 1 application daily, then gradually increase to 2 or 3 times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs, reduce application to once a day or every other day for children under 10 years of age and under, consult your physician Directions Wet affected area, apply, and rinse well. Because excessive drying of the skin can occur, start with one application daily, then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a physician If bothersome dryness occurs, reduce application to once a day or every other day. Directions Apply thin layer on acne-prone/oily areas after cleansing. Use 1–2 times daily, preferably at night; sunscreen during day. Start every other day; increase frequency if tolerated. Reduce use or add moisturizer if dryness/peeling occurs. Directions clean facial skin thoroughly before applying apply to face with a thin layer one to three tim es daily start with one application daily to avoid excessive drying of the skin gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs, reduce application Directions Cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying medication. Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily. Because excessive drying of the skin may occur, start with one application daily, then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor. If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs, reduce application to once a day or every other day. Sensitivity Test for a New User. Apply product sparingly to one or two small affected areas during the first 3 days. If no discomfort occurs, follow the directions stated eleswhere on this label. Directions after washing affected area, soak wart for 5 minutes in comfortably warm water dry area thoroughly if necessary cut medicated patch to fit wart apply adhesive side down of patch onto wart cover patch with pad to conceal area repeat this procedure every 48 hours as needed (until wart is removed) for up to 12 weeks Directions part dry or damp hair in 4 sections apply 5 doses to each section massage product into scalp apply to affected areas one to four times daily or as directed by a doctor Directions: Wet face. Apply to hands, add water and work into a lather. Massage face gently. Rinse thoroughly. Because excessive drying of the skin may occur, start with one application daily, then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor..If bothersome dryness of peeling occurs, reduce application to once a day or every other day.
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Warnings For external use only Keep away from eyes, lips, and mouth. Using other topical medications, while using this product or immediately thereafter, may increase dryness or irritation. If this occurs discontinue use and see your doctor. Keep out of the reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center. Sunscreen use is recommended with any glycolic acid product and for an additional week thereafter because some individuals may be more sensitive to sunlight. Warning For external use only. Warnings For external use only. When using this product Skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time. If irritation occurs, only use one topical acne medication at a time. avoid contact with eyes. If contact occurs, rinse eyes thoroughly with water. Stop use and ask a doctor if skin irritation occurs/gets worse. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Do not use this product if you are a diabetic or have poor blood circulation, except under the advice and supervision of a doctor or podiatrist Do not use on irritated, infected or reddened skin moles, birthmarks and warts with hair growing from them on genital warts and warts on the face mucous membranes ​Keep out of reach of children. ​ If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. If discomfort persists see your doctor or podiatrist. Using other topical acne medications at the same time or immediately following use of this product may increase dryness or irritation of the skin. If this occurs, only one medication should be used unless directed by a doctor. Sensitivity Test for a New User. Apply product sparingly to one or two small affected areas during the first 3 days. If no discomfort occurs, follow the steps stated in directions.

=== IBUPROFEN ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Pain reliever/fever reducer Purposes Pain reliever/fever reducer
Indications: Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: headache toothache backache menstrual cramps the common cold muscular aches minor pain of arthritis temporarily reduces fever Uses • temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: • headache • muscular aches • minor pain of arthritis • toothache • backache • the common cold • menstrual cramps • temporarily reduces fever INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of ibuprofen tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use ibuprofen. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS ). Ibuprofen tablets are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis. Ibuprofen tablets are indicated for relief of mild to moderate pain. Ibuprofen tablets are also indicated for the treatment of primary dysmenorrhea. Controlled clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of ibuprofen tablets in children have not been conducted. Uses temporarily: • relieves minor aches and pains due to the common cold, flu, sore throat, headache and toothache • reduces fever USE(S) temporarily: reduces fever relieves minor aches and pains due to the common cold, flu, sore throat, headaches and toothaches Uses temporarily: • reduces fever • relieves minor aches and pains due to the common cold, flu, sore throat, headaches and toothaches Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: headache muscular aches minor pain of arthritis toothache backache the common cold menstrual cramps temporarily reduces fever Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see WARNINGS ]. Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: menstrual cramps toothache the common cold backache headache muscular aches minor pain of arthritis temporarily reduces fever
Dosage: Directions do not take more than directed the smallest effective dose should be used adults and children 12 years and over: take 1 tablet every 4 to 6 hours while symptoms persist if pain or fever does not respond to 1 tablet, 2 tablets may be used do not exceed 6 tablets in 24 hours, unless directed by a doctor children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions • do not take more than directed • the smallest effective dose should be used adults and children 12 years and older • take 1 tablet every 4 to 6 hours while symptoms persist • if pain or fever does not respond to 1 tablet, 2 tablets may be used • do not exceed 6 tablets in 24 hours, unless directed by a doctor children under 12 years • ask a doctor DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of ibuprofen tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use ibuprofen tablets. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS ). After observing the response to initial therapy with ibuprofen tablets, the dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient's needs. Do not exceed 3200 mg total daily dose. If gastrointestinal complaints occur, administer ibuprofen tablets with meals or milk. Rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis, including flare-ups of chronic disease Suggested Dosage: 1200 mg to 3200 mg daily (300 mg qid; 400 mg, 600 mg or 800 mg tid or qid). Individual patients may show a better response to 3200 mg daily, as compared with 2400 mg, although in well-controlled clinical trials patients on 3200 mg did not show a better mean response in terms of efficacy. Therefore, when treating patients with 3200 mg/day, the physician should observe sufficient increased clinical benefits to offset potential increased risk. The dose should be tailored to each patient, and may be lowered or raised depending on the severity of symptoms either at time of initiating drug therapy or as the patient responds or fails to respond. In general, patients with rheumatoid arthritis seem to require higher doses of ibuprofen tablets than do patients with osteoarthritis. The smallest dose of ibuprofen tablets that yields acceptable control should be employed. A linear blood level doseresponse relationship exists with single doses up to 800 mg (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY for effects of food on rate of absorption). The availability of three tablet strengths facilitates dosage adjustment. In chronic conditions, a therapeutic response to therapy with ibuprofen tablets is sometimes seen in a few days to a week but most often is observed by two weeks. After a satisfactory response has been achieved, the patient's dose should be reviewed and adjusted as required. Mild to moderate pain: 400 mg every 4 to 6 hours as necessary for relief of pain. In controlled analgesic clinical trials, doses of ibuprofen tablets greater than 400 mg were no more effective than the 400 mg dose. Dysmenorrhea For the treatment of dysmenorrhea, beginning with the earliest onset of such pain, ibuprofen tablets should be given in a dose of 400 mg every 4 hours as necessary for the relief of pain. Directions • this product does not contain directions or complete warnings for adult use • do not give more than directed • shake well before using • mL = milliliter • find right dose on chart. If possible, use weight to dose; otherwise use age. • use only enclosed dosing cup. Do not use any other dosing device. • if needed, repeat dose every 6-8 hours • do not use more than 4 times a day • replace original bottle cap to maintain child resistance • wash dosage cup after each use Dosing Chart Weight (lb) Age (yr) Dose (mL)** under 24 lbs under 2 years ask a doctor 24-35 lbs 2-3 years 5 mL 36-47 lbs 4-5 years 7.5 mL 48-59 lbs 6-8 years 10 mL 60-71 lbs 9-10 years 12.5 mL 72-95 lbs 11 years 15 mL **or as directed by a doctor DIRECTIONS this product does not contain directions or complete warnings for adult use do not give more than directed shake well before using find right dose on chart below. mL=milliliter measure with dosing device provided. dispense liquid slowly into the child's mouth, toward the inner cheek if needed, repeat dose every 6-8 hours do not use more than 4 times a day Dosing Chart WEIGHT (lb) AGE (mos) DOSE (mL) under 6 mos ask a doctor 12-17 lbs 6-11 mos 1.25 mL 18-23 lbs 12-23 years 1.875 mL Directions • this product does not contain directions or complete warnings for adult use • do not give more than directed • shake well before using • find right dose on chart below. • mL = milliliter • measure with the dosing device provided. Do not use with any other device. • dispense liquid slowly into the child’s mouth, toward the inner cheek • if needed, repeat dose every 6-8 hours • do not use more than 4 times a day Dosing Chart Weight (lbs) Age (mos) Dose (mL) under 6 mos ask a doctor 12-17 lbs 6-11 mos 1.25 mL 18-23 lbs 12-23 mos 1.875 mL Directions do not take more than directed the smallest effective dose should be used adults and children 12 years and over: take 1 capsule every 4 to 6 hours while symptoms persist if pain or fever does not respond to 1 capsule, 2 capsules may be used do not exceed 6 capsules in 24 hours, unless directed by a doctor children under 12 years: ask a doctor DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of Ibuprofen Tablets, USP and other treatment options before deciding to use Ibuprofen Tablets, USP. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see WARNINGS ]. After observing the response to initial therapy with Ibuprofen Tablets, USP, the dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient's needs. Rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis, including flare-ups of chronic disease Suggested Dosage: 1200 mg-3200 mg daily (400 mg, 600 mg or 800 mg tid or qid). Therefore, when treating patients with 3200 mg/ day, the physician should observe sufficient increased clinical benefits to offset potential increased risk. A linear blood level dose-response relationship exists with single doses up to 800 mg [See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY for effects of food on rate of absorption]. In chronic conditions , a therapeutic response to therapy with Ibuprofen tablets is sometimes seen in a few days to a week but most often is observed by two weeks. Mild to moderate pain 400 mg every 4 to 6 hours as necessary for relief of pain. Directions • do not take more than directed • the smallest effective dose should be used Adults and children 12 years and older: • take 1 tablet every 4 to 6 hours while symptoms persist • if pain or fever does not respond to 1 tablet, 2 tablets may be used • do not exceed 6 tablets in 24 hours, unless directed by a doctor Children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions do not take more than directed the smallest effective dose should be used adults and children 12 years and over: take 1 caplet every 4 to 6 hours while symptoms persist if pain or fever does not respond to 1 caplet, 2 caplets may be used do not exceed 6 caplets in 24 hours, unless directed by a doctor children under 12 years: ask a doctor
Warnings: Warnings Allergy alert: Ibuprofen may cause a severe allergic reaction, especially in people allergic to aspirin. Symptoms may include: rash facial swelling asthma (wheezing) hives skin reddening shock blisters If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Stomach bleeding warning: This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you: take more or for a longer time than directed take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product are age 60 or older take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs [aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others] Heart attack and stroke warning: NSAIDs, except aspirin, increase the risk of heart attack, heart failure, and stroke. These can be fatal. The risk is higher if you use more than directed or for longer than directed. Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever/fever reducer right before or after heart surgery Ask a doctor before use if stomach bleeding warning applies to you you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, kidney disease, asthma, or had a stroke you are taking a diuretic you have problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are under a doctor's care for any serious condition taking aspirin for heart attack or stroke, because ibuprofen may decrease this benefit of aspirin taking any other drug When using this product take with food or milk if stomach upset occurs Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: feel faint have bloody or black stools vomit blood have stomach pain that does not get better you have symptoms of heart problems or stroke: chest pain slurred speech leg swelling trouble breathing weakness in one part or side of body pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present in the painful area any new symptoms appear If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. It is especially important not to use ibuprofen at 20 weeks or later in pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Symptoms may include: • hives • facial swelling • asthma (wheezing) • shock • skin reddening • rash • blisters If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. The chance is higher if you • are age 60 or older • have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems • take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug • take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs [aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others] • have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product • take more or for a longer time than directed Heart attack and stroke warning: NSAIDs, except aspirin, increase the risk of heart attack, heart failure, and stroke. Do not use • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to ibuprofen or any other pain reliever/fever reducer • right before or after heart surgery Ask a doctor before use if • you have problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers • the stomach bleeding warning applies to you • you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn • you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, kidney disease, asthma, or had a stroke • you are taking a diuretic Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • taking aspirin for heart attack or stroke, because ibuprofen may decrease this benefit of aspirin • under a doctor’s care for any serious condition • taking any other drug When using this product • take with food or milk if stomach upset occurs Stop use and ask a doctor if • you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: • feel faint • vomit blood • have bloody or black stools • have stomach pain that does not get better • you have symptoms of heart problems or stroke: • chest pain • trouble breathing • weakness in one part or side of body • slurred speech • leg swelling • pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • redness or swelling is present in the painful area • any new symptoms appear If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). WARNINGS Cardiovascular Effects Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, including myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke, which can be fatal. Based on available data, it is unclear that the risk for CV thrombotic events is similar for all NSAIDs. The relative increase in serious CV thrombotic events over baseline conferred by NSAID use appears to be similar in those with and without known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease. However, patients with known CV disease or risk factors had a higher absolute incidence of excess serious CV thrombotic events, due to their increased baseline rate. Some observational studies found that this increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events began as early as the first weeks of treatment. The increase in CV thrombotic risk has been observed most consistently at higher doses. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in NSAID-treated patients, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, throughout the entire treatment course, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Patients should be informed about the symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as ibuprofen, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events [ see Warnings ]. Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery Two large, controlled clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10 to 14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. NSAIDs are contraindicated in the setting of CABG [ see Contraindications ]. Post-MI Patients Observational studies conducted in the Danish National Registry have demonstrated that patients treated with NSAIDs in the post-MI period were at increased risk of reinfarction, CV-related death, and all-cause mortality beginning in the first week of treatment. In this same cohort, the incidence of death in the first year post MI was 20 per 100 person years in NSAID-treated patients compared to 12 per 100 person years in non-NSAID exposed patients. Although the absolute rate of death declined somewhat after the first year post-MI, the increased relative risk of death in NSAID users persisted over at least the next four years of follow-up. Avoid the use of ibuprofen tablets in patients with a recent MI unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If ibuprofen tablets are used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia. Hypertension NSAIDs including ibuprofen tablets, can lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of pre-existing hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Patients taking thiazides or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs. NSAIDs, including ibuprofen tablets, should be used with caution in patients with hypertension. Blood pressure (BP) should be monitored closely during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy. Heart Failure and Edema The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists’ Collaboration meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately two-fold increase in hospitalizations for heart failure in COX-2 selective-treated patients and nonselective NSAID-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. In a Danish National Registry study of patients with heart failure, NSAID use increased the risk of MI, hospitalization for heart failure, and death. Additionally, fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients treated with NSAIDs. Use of ibuprofen may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions [e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs)] [see Drug Interactions ]. Avoid the use of ibuprofen tablets in patients with severe heart failure unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure. If ibuprofen tablets are used in patients with severe heart failure, monitor patients for signs of worsening heart failure. Gastrointestinal Effects - Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation NSAIDs, including ibuprofen tablets, can cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDs. Only one in five patients, who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy, is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occur in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3 to 6 months, and in about 2 to 4% of patients treated for one year. These trends continue with longer duration of use, increasing the likelihood of developing a serious GI event at some time during the course of therapy. However, even short-term therapy is not without risk. NSAIDs should be prescribed with extreme caution in those with a prior history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding. Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or gastrointestinal bleeding who use NSAIDs have a greater than 10-fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients treated with neither of these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk of GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include concomitant use of oral corticosteroids or anticoagulants, longer duration of NSAID therapy, smoking, use of alcohol, older age, and poor general health status. Most spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in elderly or debilitated patients and therefore, special care should be taken in treating this population. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse GI event in patients treated with an NSAID, the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest possible duration. Patients and physicians should remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulcerations and bleeding during NSAID therapy and promptly initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious GI event is suspected. This should include discontinuation of the NSAID until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. For high-risk patients, alternate therapies that do not involve NSAIDs should be considered. Renal Effects Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of a NSAID may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics and ACE inhibitors, and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. Advanced Renal Disease No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of ibuprofen tablets in patients with advanced renal disease. Therefore, treatment with ibuprofen tablets is not recommended in these patients with advanced renal disease. If ibuprofen tablet therapy must be initiated, close monitoring of the patients renal function is advisable. Anaphylactoid Reactions As with other NSAIDs, anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without known prior exposure to ibuprofen tablets. Ibuprofen tablets should not be given to patients with the aspirin triad. This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS , Preexisting Asthma ). Emergency help should be sought in cases where an anaphylactoid reaction occurs. Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including ibuprofen, can cause serious skin adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. NSAIDs can also cause fixed drug eruption (FDE). FDE may present as a more severe variant known as generalized bullous fixed drug eruption (GBFDE), which can be life-threatening. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions, and to discontinue the use of ibuprofen tablets at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Ibuprofen tablets are contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) has been reported in patients taking NSAIDs such as ibuprofen tablets. Some of these events have been fatal or life-threatening. DRESS typically, although not exclusively, presents with fever, rash, lymphadenopathy, and/or facial swelling. Other clinical manifestations may include hepatitis, nephritis, hematological abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis. Sometimes symptoms of DRESS may resemble an acute viral infection. Eosinophilia is often present. Because this disorder is variable in its presentation, other organ systems not noted here may be involved. It is important to note that early manifestations of hypersensitivity, such as fever or lymphadenopathy, may be present even though rash is not evident. If such signs or symptoms are present, discontinue ibuprofen tablets and evaluate the patient immediately. Fetal Toxicity Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus: Avoid use of NSAIDs, including ibuprofen tablets, in pregnant women at about 30 weeks gestation and later. NSAIDs including ibuprofen tablets, increase the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus at approximately this gestational age. Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment: Use of NSAIDs, including ibuprofen tablets, at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy may cause fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios and, in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. These adverse outcomes are seen, on average, after days to weeks of treatment, although oligohydramnios has been infrequently reported as soon as 48 hours after NSAID initiation. Oligohydramnios is often, but not always, reversible with treatment discontinuation. Complications of prolonged oligohydramnios may, for example, include limb contractures and delayed lung maturation. In some postmarketing cases of impaired neonatal renal function, invasive procedures such as exchange transfusion or dialysis were required. If NSAID treatment is necessary between about 20 weeks and 30 weeks gestation, limit ibuprofen tablets use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. Consider ultrasound monitoring of amniotic fluid if ibuprofen tablets treatment extends beyond 48 hours. Discontinue ibuprofen tablets if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice [ see PRECAUTIONS; Pregnancy ] . The chance is higher if your child: • has had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems • takes a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug • takes other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) • takes more or for a longer time than directed Heart attack and stroke warning: NSAIDs, except aspirin, increase the risk of heart attack, heart failure, and stroke. Sore throat warning: Severe or persistent sore throat or sore throat accompanied by high fever, headache, nausea, and vomiting may be serious. Consult doctor promptly. Do not use more than 2 days or administer to children under 3 years of age unless directed by doctor. Do not use • if the child has ever had an allergic reaction to ibuprofen or any other pain reliever/fever reducer • right before or after heart surgery Ask a doctor before use if • stomach bleeding warning applies to your child • child has a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn • child has problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers • child has not been drinking fluids • child has lost a lot of fluid due to vomiting or diarrhea • child has high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, kidney disease, or had a stroke • child has asthma • child is taking a diuretic Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if the child is • under a doctor’s care for any serious condition • taking any other drug When using this product • give with food or milk if stomach upset occurs Stop use and ask a doctor if • child experiences any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: • feels faint • vomits blood • has bloody or black stools • has stomach pain that does not get better • child has symptoms of heart problems or stroke: • chest pain • trouble breathing • weakness in one part or side of body • slurred speech • leg swelling • the child does not get any relief within first day (24 hours) of treatment • fever or pain gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • redness or swelling is present in the painful area • any new symptoms appear Keep out of reach of children. (1-800-222-1222) Symptoms may include: hives facial swelling asthma (wheezing) shock skin reddening rash blisters If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. The chance is higher if you child: has had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems takes a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug takes other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) takes more or for a longer time than directed Heart attack and stroke warning: NSAIDs, except aspirin, increase the risk of heart attack, heart failure and stroke. Warnings Allergy alert : Ibuprofen may cause a severe allergic reaction, especially in people allergic to aspirin. Stomach bleeding warning : This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you: are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs [aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others] have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product take more or for a longer time than directed Heart attack and stroke warning: NSAIDs, except aspirin, increase the risk of heart attack, heart failure, and stroke.These can be fatal. Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever/fever reducer right before or after heart surgery Ask a doctor before use if the stomach bleeding warning applies to you you have problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, kidney disease, asthma, or had a stroke you are taking a diuretic Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are under a doctor's care for any serious condition taking aspirin for heart attack or stroke, because ibuprofen may decrease this benefit of aspirin taking any other drug When using this product take with food or milk if stomach upset occurs Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: feel faint have bloody or black stools vomit blood have stomach pain that does not get better you have symptoms of heart problems or stroke: chest pain slurred speech trouble breathing leg swelling weakness in one part or side of body pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present in the painful area any new symptoms appear If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. It is especially important not to use ibuprofen during the last 3 months of pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as Ibuprofen, increase the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events [see WARNINGS ]. Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery Two large, controlled clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10-14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. NSAIDs are contraindicated in the setting of CABG [see CONTRAINDICATIONS ]. If Ibuprofen tablets are used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia . Hypertension NSAIDs including Ibuprofen tablets, can lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of preexisting hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Heart Failure and Edema The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists' Collaboration meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately two-fold increase in hospitalizations for heart failure in COX-2 selective-treated patients and nonselective NSAID-treated patients compared to placebotreated patients. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occur in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3-6 months, and in about 2-4% of patients treated for one year. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse GI event in patients treated with a NSAID, the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest possible duration. In these patients, administration of a NSAID may cause a dose dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs [see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS, Preexisting Asthma ]. Ibuprofen tablets are contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) . Fetal Toxicity Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus Avoid use of NSAIDs, including Ibuprofen tablets, in pregnant women at about 30 weeks gestation and later. Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment Use of NSAIDs, including Ibuprofen tablets, at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy may cause fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios and, in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. Discontinue Ibuprofen tablets if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice [see PRECAUTIONS; Pregnancy ]. The chances are higher if you • are age 60 or older • have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems • take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug • take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs [aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others] • have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product • take more or for a longer time than directed Heart attack and stroke warning: NSAIDs, except aspirin, increase the risk of heart attack, heart failure, and stroke. Symptoms may include: skin reddening asthma (wheezing) rash facial swelling shock blisters hives If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. The chance is higher if you take more or for a longer time than directed take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug are age 60 or older take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs [aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others] have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Heart attack and stroke warning: NSAIDs, except aspirin, increase the risk of heart attack, heart failure, and stroke. Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever/fever reducer right before or after heart surgery Ask a doctor before use if you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn you are taking a diuretic you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, kidney disease, asthma, or had a stroke stomach bleeding warning applies to you you have problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are under a doctor's care for any serious condition taking aspirin for heart attack or stroke, because ibuprofen may decrease this benefit of aspirin taking any other drug When using this product take with food or milk if stomach upset occurs Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: feel faint vomit blood have bloody or black stools have stomach pain that does not get better you have symptoms of heart problems or stroke: chest pain trouble breathing leg swelling slurred speech weakness in one part or side of body pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present in the painful area any new symptoms appear If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Ibuprofen tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to Ibuprofen. Ibuprofen tablets should not be given to patients who have experienced asthma, urticaria, or allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, rarely fatal, anaphylactic-like reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients (see WARNINGS , Anaphylactoid Reactions , and PRECAUTIONS , Preexisting Asthma ). In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [see Warnings ] Severe, rarely fatal, anaphylactic-like reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [see WARNINGS, Anaphylactoid Reactions , and PRECAUTIONS, Preexisting Asthma ]. Ibuprofen tablets are contraindicated in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [see WARNINGS ].
Interactions (label): Preexisting asthma Patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma. The use of aspirin in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma has been associated with severe bronchospasm, which can be fatal. Since cross reactivity, including bronchospasm, between aspirin and NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, ibuprofen tablets should not be administered to patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity and should be used with caution in patients with preexisting asthma. Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin Pharmacodynamic studies have demonstrated interference with the antiplatelet activity of aspirin when ibuprofen 400 mg, given three times daily, is administered with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin. The interaction exists even following a once-daily regimen of ibuprofen 400 mg, particularly when ibuprofen is dosed prior to aspirin. The interaction is alleviated if immediate-release low-dose aspirin is dosed at least 2 hours prior to a once-daily regimen of ibuprofen; however, this finding cannot be extended to enteric-coated low-dose aspirin [see Clinical Pharmacology/Pharmacodynamics ]. Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the interference of ibuprofen with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardio protection who require analgesics, consider use of a NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics, where appropriate. When Ibuprofen tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free Ibuprofen tablets is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of ibuprofen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential for increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that Ibuprofen tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect-of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure [see PRECAUTIONS, Renal Effects ], as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium Ibuprofen produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance in a study of eleven normal volunteers. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance of lithium was decreased by 19% during this period of concomitant drug administration. This effect has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by ibuprofen. Thus, when ibuprofen and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. (Read circulars for lithium preparation before use of such concurrent therapy.) Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin-type anticoagulants Several short-term controlled studies failed to show that Ibuprofen tablets significantly affected prothrombin times or a variety of other clotting factors when administered to individuals on coumarin-type anticoagulants. However, because bleeding has been reported when Ibuprofen tablets and other NSAIDs have been administered to patients on coumarin-type anticoagulants, the physician should be cautious when administering Ibuprofen tablets to patients on anticoagulants. The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. H-2 Antagonists In studies with human volunteers, co-administration of cimetidine or ranitidine with ibuprofen had no substantive effect on ibuprofen serum concentrations.

=== MENTHOL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Cough suppressant / Oral anesthetic Purpose Camphor 3.1%.................Topical Analgesic Menthol 5.3%..................Topical Analgesic Purpose Menthol - Topical analgesic Methyl salicylate - Topical analgesic Purpose Analgesic Protectant Protectant Purpose Anti-itch Insect bite relief spray Uses: Temporarily relieves minor aches and pains associated with sore muscles and joints arthritis backache muscle strains sprains bruises Purpose: Cooling Pain Relief Purpose Pain Relieving Spray
Indications: Uses temporarily relieves: cough as may occur with a cold occasional minor irritation and sore throat Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with simple backache arthritis strains bruises sprains Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to arthritis simple backache strains sprains Uses for the temporary relief of anorectal itching and discomfort in the perianal area associated with anorectal inflammation temporarily forms a protective coating over inflamed tissues to help prevent drying of tissues temporarily protects irritated areas temporarily relieves burning provides temporary relief from skin irritations temporarily protects the inflamed irritated anorectal surface to help make bowel movements less painful temporarily protects inflamed perianal skin temporarily relieves the symptoms of perianal skin irritation may provide a cooling sensation Do not begin use of any hydrocortisone product unless you've asked a doctor. Do not use in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge. Consult a doctor. Do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor. Stop use and ask a doctor if: Condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and recur Redness is present or irritation develops Uses Temporary relief from minor aches and pains of sore muscles and joints associated with: arthritis backache strains and sprains Uses Temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with: simple backache arthritis strains bruises sprains
Dosage: Directions adults and children 5 years and over - dissolve 1 lozenge slowly in mouth. Repeat every 2 hours as needed or as directed by a doctor. children under 5 years - ask a doctor Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older: Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily. Children under 2 years of age: do not use, consult a doctor. Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older : Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily. Directions adults and children 12 years and over: apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions adults : when practical, cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly. Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product. Apply to the affected area up to 6 times daily Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Uses Temporarily relieves itching associated with minor skin irritations, inflammation and rashes due to: eczema, psoriasis, insect bites, detergents, jewelry, cosmetics, soaps, seborrheic dermatitis and more. Directions Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily. Children under 2 years, do not use; ask a doctor. Directions: Adults and children over the age of 2 years old: Apply generously with gentle rubbing to the affected area 2-3 times daily or as needed Children less than 2 years of age: Consult a doctor. Directions: Adults and children 12 years of age and older: Spray on to the affected areas not more than 4 times daily; massage not necessary Children under 12 years of age: Consult physician Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older: spray on to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily; massage not necessary children under 12 years of age: consult a physician wash hands after use with cool water
Warnings: Warnings Sore throat warning: if sor throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, swelling, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. If sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days, see your dentist or doctor promptly. These symptoms may be serious. Warnings For external use only Do not use on wounds or damaged skin When using this product avoid contact with the eyes do not bandage tightly Stop use and ask doctor if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days condition worsens irritation occurs If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Sore throat warning: if sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, swelling, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. Warnings For external use only When using this product use only as directed do not get into eyes or on mucous membranes do not apply to wounds or to damaged skin do not bandage tightly do not use with a heating pad, other heat sources, or right after a shower/bath do not use in combination with other external analgesic products Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens excessive irritation, burning or discomfort of the skin develops symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Warnings For external use only Allergy Alert: Certain persons can develop allergic reactions to ingredients in this product. If the symptom being treated does not subside or if redness, irritation, swelling, pain, or other symptoms develop or increase, discontinue use and consult a doctor Do not use on deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns When using this product do not get into eyes do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days in case of bleeding Keep out of reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only. Warnings: For external use only When using this product: use only as directed Do not bandage or cover the area being treated Do not apply ice or heating pad in conjunction with this product Do not use with any medical device or other device Do not combine with any other topical treatment Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membrane Do not apply to wounds or damaged skin If pregnant or breast-feeding: Ask a health professional before use Flammable: Keep away from excessive heat or open flame. Contents Under Pressure. Do Not Punture Or Incinerate Do Not Store At Temperature Above 120°F Ask a Doctor Before using If You have: ■ you experience pain, swelling or blistering of the skin ■ condition worsens, or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days ■ arthritic pain persists for more than 10 days, or redness is present When Using This Product Avoid contact with the eyes or mucous membranes; Do not apply to wounds or damaged skin; Do not use with other ointments, creams, sprays or liniments; Do not apply to irritated skin or if excessive irritation develops; Do not bandage; Wash hands after use with cool water; Do not use with heating pad or device; Store in a cool dry place Stop Use And Ask A Doctor If: Condition worsens, or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days, or clear up and recur If pregnant or breast-feeding: Ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children: If accidentally ingested, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately Flammable: Keep away from excessive heat or open flame Contents under pressure. Do not puncture or incinerate. Do not store at temperature above 120°F. When using this product use only as directed avoid contact with the eyes or on mucous membranes do not apply to wounds or damaged skin do not apply to irritated skin or if excessive irritation develops do not bandage tightly or use with heating pad or device Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience pain, swelling or blistering of the skin condition worsens, or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days arthritic pain persists for more than 10 days, or redness is present If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use.

=== BENZALKONIUM CHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antibacterial Purpose: Antibacterial Purpose Topical Analgesic Purpose Topical Antiseptic Purpose First Aid Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic Purpose Antimicrobal
Indications: Use For handwashing to decrease bacteria on the skin Uses for handwashing or decrease bacteria to the skin Use(s) For the temporary relief of pain and itching associated with: • Sunburn • Minor burns • Insect bites • Cuts • Scrapes Use(s) First aid to help prevent skin infection in minor cuts, scrapes, and burns Uses: For personal hand hygiene to help prevent the spread of bacteria. Use Hand sanitizer to help reduce bacteria on the skin. Recommended for repeated use. Uses Helps decrease bacteria on hands Uses Helps decrease bacteria on hands. Uses Helps eliminate bacteria on hands.
Dosage: Directions wet hands apply palmful to hands scrub thoroughly rinse thoroughly Direction wet hands apply palmful to hands scrub thoroughly rinse Directions Adults and children 2 years and over: • Clean the affected area • Apply a small amount of this product on the area 3 to 4 times daily • May be covered with a sterile bandage Children under 2 years: • Consult a doctor Directions • Clean the affected area • May be covered with a sterile bandage • If bandaged, let dry first Directions Adults and children over 2 years: Tear open packet, unfold and use as a wash cloth. Allow hands to dry without wiping. Directions Wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry. Be sure to use entire wipe. Discard after single use. Children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using this product. Directions From Pump bottle, apply onto wet hands Lather and rinse thoroughly. Directions From pump bottle, apply onto wet hands. Lather and rinse thoroughly.
Warnings: Warnings For external use only: hands only For external use only Warnings For External Use Only. Do not use • In the eyes • Over large areas of the body or on deep puncture wounds, animal bites, or serious burns • In large quantities, particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas Stop use and ask a doctor if • The condition gets worse • Condition clears up and recurs within a few days • Condition persists for more than 7 days If pregnant or breast feeding Ask a health care professional before use. Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings For External Use Only Do not use • As an antiseptic for more than 1 week • In the eyes Ask a doctor before use if You have deep or puncture wounds, animal bites, or serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • Irritation and redness develop • Condition persists or gets worse Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Do not use in eyes. If this occurs, rinse thoroughly with water. Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or redness develops and persists for more than 72 hours. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. When using this product do not use in or near the eyes. In case of contact, rinse eyes thoroughly in water. Discontinue use if irritation and redness develop. If conditions persist for more than 72 hours, consult a physician. If swallowed get medical help or contact a poison control center immediately. Warnings For external use only When using this product Avoid contact with eyes. In case of contact, flush with water. Stop use and ask a doctor if Irritation or redness develops and lasts. Keep out of reach of children In case of accidental ingestion, seek medical attention or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. When using the product Avoid contact with eyes. In case of accidental ingestion, seek medical attention or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. When using this product Avoid contact with eyes.

=== SODIUM FLUORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Anticavity Purpose Anticavity toothpaste
Indications: Use aids in the prevention of dental cavities Use helps protect against cavities INDICATIONS AND USAGE Supplementation of the diet with vitamins A, C and D. Tri-Vite Drops with Fluoride 0.25 mg also provides fluoride for caries prophylaxis. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that children up to age 16, in areas where drinking water contains less than optimal levels of fluoride, receive daily fluoride supplementation. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommend that infants and young children 6 months to 3 years of age, in areas where the drinking water contains less than 0.3 ppm of fluoride, and children 3-6 years of age, in areas where the drinking water contains 0.3 through 0.6 ppm of fluoride, receive 0.25 mg of supplemental fluoride daily which is provided in a dose of 1 mL of Tri-Vite Drops with Fluoride 0.25 mg (See Dosage and Administration ). Tri-Vite Drops with Fluoride 0.25 mg supply significant amounts of vitamins A, C and D to supplement the diet, and to help assure that nutritional deficiencies of these vitamins will not develop. Thus, in a single easy-to-use preparation, children obtain essential vitamins and fluoride. Indications and usage: A stable thixotropic fluoride treatment gel used to help prevent dental decay. For Professional Office Use Only. This product is not intended for home or unsupervised consumer use.
Dosage: Directions Adults and children 6 years of age and older: use once a day after brushing your teeth with a toothpaste vigorously swish 10 milliliters of rinse between your teeth for 1 minute and then spit out do not swallow the rinse do not eat or drink for 30 minutes after rinsing instruct children under 12 years of age in good rinsing habits (to minimize swallowing) supervise children as necessary until capable of using without supervision Children under 6 years of age: consult a dentist or doctor Directions • Adults and children 2 years of age and older: Brush teeth thoroughly, preferably after each meal or at least twice a day, or use as directed by a dentist or doctor. • Instruct children under 6 years of age in good brushing and rinsing habits (to minimize swallowing). • Supervise children as necessary until capable of using without supervision. • Children under 2 years of age: Consult a dentist or doctor. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 1.0 mL daily or as directed by physician. May be dropped directly into the mouth with dropper; or mixed with cereal, fruit juice or other food. Tri-Vite Drops with Fluoride 0.25 mg is available in 50 mL bottles with accompanying calibrated dropper. Directions adults and children 2 years of age and older brush teeth thoroughly, preferably after each meal or at least twice a day, or as directed by a dentist or physician children 2 to 6 years use only a pea sized amount and supervise child's brushing and rinsing (to minimize swallowing) children under 2 years ask a dentist or physician Directions adults and children 2 years of age and older brush teeth thoroughly, preferably after each meal or at least twice a day, or as directed by a dentist or physician children 2 to 6 years use only a pea sized amount and supervise the child's brushing and rinsing (to minimize swallowing) children under 2 years ask a dentist or physician Dosage and administration: Shake well before use. This is a one minute or four minute fluoride gel for in-office patient use. It is normally used as a preventative caries treatment twice a year. 1. After thorough prophylaxis, fill two single or one dual tray, one third full with gel. Air dry teeth and insert trays into the mouth. 2. Instruct patient to bite down lightly but firmly for one minute (80% effectiveness) or four minutes (100% effectiveness). 3. Remove trays. Instruct patient to expectorate any excess gel and not to eat or drink for at least 30 minutes. Directions twist off cap to remove foil seal adults and children 2 yrs. & older: brush teeth thoroughly after meals or at least twice a day or use as directed by a dentist do not swallow to minimize swallowing use a pea-sized amount in children under 6 supervise children’s brushing until good habits are established children under 2 yrs.: ask a dentist Directions adults and children 2 yrs. & older: brush teeth thoroughly after meals or at least twice a day or use as directed by a dentist do not swallow to minimize swallowing use a pea-sized amount in children under 6 supervise children's brushing until good habits are established children under 2 yrs.: ask a dentist
Warnings: Warnings for this product Warnings When using this product Do not swallow Do not use in eye area Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age. If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. WARNINGS As in the case of all medications, keep out of reach of children. Warnings Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age. Warnings: Keep out of reach of children. Do not swallow. If product is accidentally swallowed in quantities greater than would normally occur with a treatment gel, seek medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Read directions carefully before using. Warning Keep out of reach of children under 6 yrs. of age . of age. Warnings Keep out of reach of children under 6 yrs.

=== TITANIUM DIOXIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Sunscreen Active ingredients Purpose Titanium Dioxide (4.9%) Sunscreen Zinc Oxide (21.6%) Sunscreen Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn
Indications: Uses Helps prevent sunburn. If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun. see Directions Uses helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun USES Uses: Helps prevent sunburn. If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see directions), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin ageing caused by the sun. Directions Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 monhts of age: Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures. Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses USE helps prevent sunburn Use Helps prevent sunburn. Uses • helps prevent sunburn. • if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun.
Dosage: Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure. Reapply at least every 2 hours. Use a water-resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating. Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: Sun Protection Measures. limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses. Children under 6 months of age: ask a doctor. Directions Shake bottle well before use. • For Sunscreen Use: • apply generously 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply: • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: • limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. • wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor DIRECTIONS SPRAY 7 TIMES WITH MOUTH AND LIPS CLOSED 8-10" AWAY FROM FACE 15 MINUTES BEFORE SUN EXPOSURE. Reapply after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating. Reapply immediately after towel drying. Children under 3 years of age: Ask a doctor. SUN PROTECTION MEASURES: Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: Limit time in the sun, especially from 10.00AM - 2.00PM Wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses Directions Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 monhts of age: Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses Drug Facts DIRECTIONS ■ For sunscreen use: ■ apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure ■ reapply at least every two hours ■ use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating ■ Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: ■ limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. ■ wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats and sunglasses ■ children under 6 months of age: ask a doctor Directions Adults over 18 years old: • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure. • reapply at least every 2 hours • use a water-resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection Measures: Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: • limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. • wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats and sunglasses.
Warnings: Warnings For external use only. Do not use on damaged or broken skin. When using this product, keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Do not use ​• on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away WARNINGS Warnings: For external use only. Do not use on damaged or broken skin Avoid prolonged sun exposure. If it gets in your eyes, wash well with water. Stop use and ask a doctor if rashes occur. If product is swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. DIRECTIONS SPRAY 7 TIMES WITH MOUTH AND LIPS CLOSED 8-10" AWAY FROM FACE 15 MINUTES BEFORE SUN EXPOSURE. Reapply after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating. Reapply immediately after towel drying. Reapply at least every 2 hours. Children under 3 years of age: Ask a doctor. SUN PROTECTION MEASURES: Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: Limit time in the sun, especially from 10.00AM - 2.00PM Wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove Warnings For external use only Flammable: Do not use near heat, flame, or while smoking Do not use on broken or damaged skin When using this product Keep away from face and avoid breathing it. Keep out of eyes. Do not puncture or incinerate. Contents under pressure. Do not store at temperatures above 120F. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If product is swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. When using this product keep out of eyes.

=== AVOBENZONE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Active ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 3.0% Sunscreen Homosalate 4.0% Sunscreen Octisalate 4.5% Sunscreen Octocrylene 2.6% Sunscreen Purpose Sunscreen Helps prevent sunburn If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun USES Helps prevent sunburn If used as directed, with other sun protection measures (see Directions), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Active ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 3% Sunscreen Homosalate 15% Sunscreen Octisalate 5% Sunscreen Octocrylene 3% Sunscreen Oxybenzone 6% Sunscreen Active ingredients Purpose AVOBENZONE 2.3% Sunscreen HOMOSALATE 10.0% Sunscreen OCTISALATE 5.0% Sunscreen OCTOCRYLENE 5.0% Sunscreen
Indications: Uses helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses Helps prevent sunburn Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Indications & Usage Helps prevent sunburn If used as directed, with other sun protection measures (see Directions), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses helps to prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ) decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses Helps prevent sunburn.
Dosage: Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures. Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in sun, especially from 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses children under 6 months: ask a doctor Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Reapply at least every 2 hours Children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10a.m.-2p.m. wear long sleeved shirts, pants hats, and sunglasses. Apply generously and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure Reapply at least every 2 hours Use a water-resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures: Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: Limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m.- 2 p.m. Directions: Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Rub in well. Reapply at least every 2 hours Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure do not spray directly on face - spray into hands and apply to face hold approximately 4 - 6 inches from skin to spray rub into skin evenly to ensure appropriate coverage use in a well-ventilated area avoid inhaling or exposing others to spray do not apply in windy conditions reapply: after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating immediately after towel drying at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hats and sunglasses children under 6 months: Ask a doctor To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. wear long sleeve sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses. children under 6 months: ask a doctor Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply: • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours children under 6 months of age: ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures. Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad-spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: • limit time in the sun, especially from 10am-2pm • wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses. Directions For sunscreen use: apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply: after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating immediately after towel drying at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures . To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses children under 6 months: Ask a doctor Directions ■ spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure ■ apply to all skin exposed to the sun ■ hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply ■ do not spray directly into face. Spray on hands then apply to face. ■ do not apply in windy conditions ■ use in a well-ventilated area and avoid inhalation ■ reapply: ■ after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ■ immediately after towel drying ■ at least every 2 hours ■ Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: ■ limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m.–2 p.m. ■ wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats and sunglasses ■ children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor Directions Adults and children over 6 months of age: ■ apply liberally15 minutes before sun exposure ■ use a water-resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating ■ reapply at least every 2 hours ■ Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: • limit time in the sun, especially from10 a.m.–2 p.m. • wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hatsand sunglasses ■ children under 6 months: Ask a doctor
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. If product is swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs When using this product keep out of eyes. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. For External use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product , keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove Warnings For external use only Flammable: Do not use near heat, flame, or while smoking Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product : Keep out of eyes. Do not puncture or incinerate. Contents under pressure. Do not store at temperatures above 120° F Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Warnings For external use only Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs. Flammable Do not use near heat, flame, or while smoking Warnings For external use only. Do not use on broken skin. When using this product avoid contact with eyes. If contact occurs, rinse thoroughly with water.

=== HOMOSALATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Active ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 3.0% Sunscreen Homosalate 4.0% Sunscreen Octisalate 4.5% Sunscreen Octocrylene 2.6% Sunscreen Helps prevent sunburn If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun USES Helps prevent sunburn If used as directed, with other sun protection measures (see Directions), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Active ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 3% Sunscreen Homosalate 15% Sunscreen Octisalate 5% Sunscreen Octocrylene 3% Sunscreen Oxybenzone 6% Sunscreen Purpose Sunscreen Active ingredients Purpose AVOBENZONE 2.3% Sunscreen HOMOSALATE 10.0% Sunscreen OCTISALATE 5.0% Sunscreen OCTOCRYLENE 5.0% Sunscreen
Indications: Uses helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Indications & Usage Helps prevent sunburn If used as directed, with other sun protection measures (see Directions), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses helps to prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ) decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun USES Helps prevent sunburn. If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see directions), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin ageing caused by the sun. Uses Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun.
Dosage: Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures. Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in sun, especially from 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses children under 6 months: ask a doctor Apply generously and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure Reapply at least every 2 hours Use a water-resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures: Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: Limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m.- 2 p.m. Directions: Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Rub in well. Reapply at least every 2 hours To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. wear long sleeve sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses. children under 6 months: ask a doctor Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply: • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours children under 6 months of age: ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures. Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad-spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: • limit time in the sun, especially from 10am-2pm • wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses. Directions For sunscreen use: apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply: after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating immediately after towel drying at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures . To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses children under 6 months: Ask a doctor Directions ■ spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure ■ apply to all skin exposed to the sun ■ hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply ■ do not spray directly into face. Spray on hands then apply to face. ■ do not apply in windy conditions ■ use in a well-ventilated area and avoid inhalation ■ reapply: ■ after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ■ immediately after towel drying ■ at least every 2 hours ■ Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: ■ limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m.–2 p.m. ■ wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats and sunglasses ■ children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor DIRECTIONS SPRAY 7 TIMES WITH MOUTH AND LIPS CLOSED 8-10" AWAY FROM FACE 15 MINUTES BEFORE SUN EXPOSURE. Reapply after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating. Reapply immediately after towel drying. Reapply at least every 2 hours. Children under 3 years of age: Ask a doctor. SUN PROTECTION MEASURES: Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: Limit time in the sun, especially from 10.00AM - 2.00PM Wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure DIRECTIONS For sunscreen use: apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure children under 6 months of age: ask a doctor reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m.-2 p.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. If product is swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. For External use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product , keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove WARNINGS For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs When using this product keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Warnings For external use only Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs. Keep out of reach of children. Flammable Do not use near heat, flame, or while smoking WARNINGS Warnings: For external use only. Do not use on damaged or broken skin. Avoid prolonged sun exposure. If it gets in your eyes, wash well with water. Stop use and ask a doctor if rashes occur. DIRECTIONS SPRAY 7 TIMES WITH MOUTH AND LIPS CLOSED 8-10" AWAY FROM FACE 15 MINUTES BEFORE SUN EXPOSURE. Reapply after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating. Reapply immediately after towel drying. Reapply at least every 2 hours. Children under 3 years of age: Ask a doctor. SUN PROTECTION MEASURES: Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: Limit time in the sun, especially from 10.00AM - 2.00PM Wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses Warnings •For external use only •Do notuse on damaged or broken skin •When using this product: Keep out of eyes. •Stop use and ask a doctor if a rash occurs •Keep out of reach of children. If product is swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control center right away

=== OCTISALATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Sunscreen Active ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 3.0% Sunscreen Homosalate 4.0% Sunscreen Octisalate 4.5% Sunscreen Octocrylene 2.6% Sunscreen Uses Helps prevent sunbrun an dphoto damage caused by UVA/UVB exposure. If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see directions) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun. Helps prevent sunburn If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun USES Helps prevent sunburn If used as directed, with other sun protection measures (see Directions), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Active ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 3% Sunscreen Homosalate 15% Sunscreen Octisalate 5% Sunscreen Octocrylene 3% Sunscreen Oxybenzone 6% Sunscreen
Indications: Uses Helps prevent sunburn. If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun. see Directions Uses helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses Helps prevent sunburn Uses Helps prevent sunbrun an dphoto damage caused by UVA/UVB exposure. If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see directions) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Indications & Usage Helps prevent sunburn If used as directed, with other sun protection measures (see Directions), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun USE A SOOTHING, CALMING AND HYDRATING MOISTURIZER IN ONE. ALSO HELPS TO REDUCE THE APPEARANCE OF SKIN FLUSHING, REDNESS AND VASCULAR STIMULATION. CONTAINING SPF 30 TO FIGHT THE SIGNES OF AGING. A MUST FOR THOSE SUFFERING WITH SKIN AND SUN SENSITIVITIES. Uses helps to prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ) decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun
Dosage: Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure. Reapply at least every 2 hours. Use a water-resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating. Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: Sun Protection Measures. limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses. Children under 6 months of age: ask a doctor. Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in sun, especially from 10 a.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses children under 6 months: ask a doctor Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Reapply at least every 2 hours Children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10a.m.-2p.m. wear long sleeved shirts, pants hats, and sunglasses. Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before exposure to the sun. Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating. Children under 6 months of age, ask physician. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats and sunglasses. Apply generously and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure Reapply at least every 2 hours Use a water-resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures: Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: Limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m.- 2 p.m. Directions: Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Rub in well. Reapply at least every 2 hours Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure do not spray directly on face - spray into hands and apply to face hold approximately 4 - 6 inches from skin to spray rub into skin evenly to ensure appropriate coverage use in a well-ventilated area avoid inhaling or exposing others to spray do not apply in windy conditions reapply: after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating immediately after towel drying at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hats and sunglasses children under 6 months: Ask a doctor DIRECTIONS APPLY GENEROUSLY WITH FINGERS TO ENTIRE FACE AND NECK. USE DAILY. – 2 p.m. wear long sleeve sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses. children under 6 months: ask a doctor Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply: • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours children under 6 months of age: ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures. Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad-spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: • limit time in the sun, especially from 10am-2pm • wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses.
Warnings: Warnings For external use only. Do not use on damaged or broken skin. When using this product, keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. If product is swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs When using this product keep out of eyes. Stope use and ask doctor if rash occurs. When using the product keep out of eyes; rinse with water to remove. If swallowed, get medical help or contact poison control immediately. Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun. For External use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product , keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove Warnings For external use only Flammable: Do not use near heat, flame, or while smoking Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product : Keep out of eyes. Do not puncture or incinerate. Contents under pressure. Do not store at temperatures above 120° F Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. WARNING FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY. WHEN USING THIS PRODUCT, AVOID CONTACT WITH EYES. IF CONTACT OCCURS, RINSE THOROUGHLY WITH WATER. DISCONTINUE USE AND ASK A DOCTOR IF IRRITATION OR RASH DEVELOPS. Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Warnings For external use only

=== OCTOCRYLENE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Active ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 3.0% Sunscreen Homosalate 4.0% Sunscreen Octisalate 4.5% Sunscreen Octocrylene 2.6% Sunscreen Purpose Sunscreen Helps prevent sunburn If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun USES Helps prevent sunburn If used as directed, with other sun protection measures (see Directions), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Active ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 3% Sunscreen Homosalate 15% Sunscreen Octisalate 5% Sunscreen Octocrylene 3% Sunscreen Oxybenzone 6% Sunscreen Active ingredients Purpose AVOBENZONE 2.3% Sunscreen HOMOSALATE 10.0% Sunscreen OCTISALATE 5.0% Sunscreen OCTOCRYLENE 5.0% Sunscreen
Indications: Uses helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses Helps prevent sunburn Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Indications & Usage Helps prevent sunburn If used as directed, with other sun protection measures (see Directions), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses helps to prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ) decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses Helps prevent sunburn.
Dosage: Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures. Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in sun, especially from 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses children under 6 months: ask a doctor Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Reapply at least every 2 hours Children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10a.m.-2p.m. wear long sleeved shirts, pants hats, and sunglasses. Apply generously and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure Reapply at least every 2 hours Use a water-resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures: Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: Limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m.- 2 p.m. Directions: Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Rub in well. Reapply at least every 2 hours Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure do not spray directly on face - spray into hands and apply to face hold approximately 4 - 6 inches from skin to spray rub into skin evenly to ensure appropriate coverage use in a well-ventilated area avoid inhaling or exposing others to spray do not apply in windy conditions reapply: after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating immediately after towel drying at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hats and sunglasses children under 6 months: Ask a doctor To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. wear long sleeve sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses. children under 6 months: ask a doctor Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply: • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours children under 6 months of age: ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures. Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad-spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: • limit time in the sun, especially from 10am-2pm • wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses. Directions For sunscreen use: apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply: after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating immediately after towel drying at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures . To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses children under 6 months: Ask a doctor Directions ■ spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure ■ apply to all skin exposed to the sun ■ hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply ■ do not spray directly into face. Spray on hands then apply to face. ■ do not apply in windy conditions ■ use in a well-ventilated area and avoid inhalation ■ reapply: ■ after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ■ immediately after towel drying ■ at least every 2 hours ■ Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: ■ limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m.–2 p.m. ■ wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats and sunglasses ■ children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor Directions Adults and children over 6 months of age: ■ apply liberally15 minutes before sun exposure ■ use a water-resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating ■ reapply at least every 2 hours ■ Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: • limit time in the sun, especially from10 a.m.–2 p.m. • wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hatsand sunglasses ■ children under 6 months: Ask a doctor
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. If product is swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs When using this product keep out of eyes. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. For External use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product , keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove Warnings For external use only Flammable: Do not use near heat, flame, or while smoking Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product : Keep out of eyes. Do not puncture or incinerate. Contents under pressure. Do not store at temperatures above 120° F Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Warnings For external use only Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs. Flammable Do not use near heat, flame, or while smoking Warnings For external use only. Do not use on broken skin. When using this product avoid contact with eyes. If contact occurs, rinse thoroughly with water.

=== ETHYL ALCOHOL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose ANTISEPTIC Purpose Antibacterial Uses for handwashing to decrease bacteria on the skin recommended for repeated use Purpose Antimicrobial
Indications: Uses • To decrease bacteria on the skin that could cause disease. • When water, soap and towel are not available. • Recommended for repeated use. Uses For handwashing to decrease bacteria on the skin. Recommended for repeated use. Uses For sanitizing to reduce bacteria on the skin. XtraCare® Kills 99.9% of germs Instant Hand Sanitizer with moisturizers cucumber melon scent 8 FL OZ / 237 mL Uses Decreases bacteria on skin. Uses to decrease bacteria on the skin that could cause disease recommended for repeated use Uses for handwashing to decrease bacteria on the skin recommended for repeated use
Dosage: Directions • Spray product in your palm and rub hands together until dry. • For children under 6, use only under adult supervision. • Not recommended for infants. Directions Wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry without wiping. Directions • Apply one shot of foaming sanitizer to dry hands • Rub into skin • No rinsing required Directions wet hands thoroughly with product briskly rub hands together until dry supervise children under 6 years in the use of this product Directions • Adults and children 6 years and older Spray onto hands and rub them together until dry. Recommended for repeated use. • Children under 6 years of age Should be supervised when using this product. Directions spray hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry without wiping for children under 6, use only under adult supervision not recommended for infants
Warnings: Warnings For external use only. Flammable. Keep away from fire or flame. When using this product: • Keep out of eyes, ears, or mouth. • In case of eye contact, flush eyes thoroughly with water. • Avoid contact with broken skin. • Do not inhale or ingest. Stop use and ask a doctor if • Redness or irritation develop. • Condition persists for more than 72 hours. Keep out of reach of children. • Children should be supervised by an adult when using this product. • If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Flammable, keep away from fire or flame For external use only. Do not use in the eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation and redness develop condition persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Flammable: Keep away from fire or flame When using this product avoid contact with eyes. In case of eye contact, flush with water Keep out of reach of children. Warnings For external use only Flammable, keep away from heat and flame. In case of contact, rinse eyes thoroughly with water. Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation and redness develop and persist for more than 72 hours. Warnings For external use only Flammable, keep away from fire or flame. Do not use • If you are allergic to any of the ingredients. When using this product • Do not get into eyes. If contact occurs, rinse thoroughly with water. Stop use and ask a doctor • If irritation or rash develops and continues for more than 72 hours. If swallowed, call Poison Help at 1-800-222-1222 or go to PoisonHelp.org. Warnings For external use only: hands Flammable, keep away from fire or flame Warnings For ecternal use only Flammable, keep away from heat and flame Do not use Do not use in the eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation and redness develop and persist for more than 72 hours. Warnings For external use only Flammable, keep away from heat and flame Do not use Do not use in the eyes.

=== ISOPROPYL ALCOHOL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose First aid antiseptic Use For Preparation of Skin prior to an injection Purpose: Purpose: First aid antiseptic to help prevent skin infection in minor cuts, scrapes and burns. For preparation of the skin prior to surgery. Helps reduce bacteria that can potentially cause skin infections. Purpose Antiseptic swap for disinfection Antispectic. For preparation of skin prior of injection.
Indications: Use first aid to help prevent the risk of infection in: minor cuts scrapes burns Uses first aid to help prevent the risk of infection in minor cuts, scrapes, and burns. For preparation of the skin prior to injection Indications & Usage Section Updated to match label claim Uses first aid antiseptic to help prevent the risk of infection in minor cuts, scrapes, and burns 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection is indicated in adults for the production of local or regional anesthesia or analgesia for surgery, dental and oral surgery procedures, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and for obstetrical procedures. Specific concentrations and presentations of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection are recommended for each type of block indicated to produce local or regional anesthesia or analgesia [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection contains bupivacaine, an amide local anesthetic. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection is indicated in adults for the production of local or regional anesthesia or analgesia for surgery, dental and oral surgery procedures, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and for obstetrical procedures. For each type of block indicated to produce local or regional anesthesia or analgesia, specific concentrations and presentations are recommended. ( 1 , 2.2 ) Limitations of Use Not all blocks are indicated for use with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection given clinically significant risks associated with use. ( 1 , 2.2 , 4 , 5.1 , 5.4 , 5.5 , 5.7 , 5.9 ) Limitations of Use Not all blocks are indicated for use with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection given clinically significant risks associated with use [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.4 , 5.5 , 5.7 , 5.9) ] . INDICATIONS AND USAGE A. For Intramuscular Administration When oral therapy is not feasible and the strength, dosage form, and route of administration of the drug reasonably lend the preparation to the treatment of the condition, the intramuscular use of methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is indicated as follows: Allergic States : Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment in asthma, atopic dermatitis, contact dermatitis, drug hypersensitivity reactions, serum sickness, transfusion reactions. Dermatologic Diseases : Bullous dermatitis herpetiformis, exfoliative dermatitis, mycosis fungoides, pemphigus, severe erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson syndrome). Endocrine Disorders : Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the drug of choice; synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable; in infancy, mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance), congenital adrenal hyperplasia, hypercalcemia associated with cancer, nonsupportive thyroiditis. Gastrointestinal Diseases : To tide the patient over a critical period of the disease in regional enteritis (systemic therapy) and ulcerative colitis. Hematologic Disorders : Acquired (autoimmune) hemolytic anemia, congenital (erythroid) hypoplastic anemia (Diamond Blackfan anemia), pure red cell aplasia, select cases of secondary thrombocytopenia. Miscellaneous : Trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement, tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy. Neoplastic Diseases : For palliative management of: leukemias and lymphomas. Nervous System : Cerebral edema associated with primary or metastatic brain tumor or craniotomy. Ophthalmic Diseases : Sympathetic ophthalmia, temporal arteritis, uveitis, ocular inflammatory conditions unresponsive to topical corticosteroids. Renal Diseases : To induce diuresis or remission of proteinuria in idiopathic nephrotic syndrome, or that due to lupus erythematosus. Respiratory Diseases : Berylliosis, fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy, idiopathic eosinophilic pneumonias, symptomatic sarcoidosis. Rheumatic Disorders : As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in acute gouty arthritis; acute rheumatic carditis; ankylosing spondylitis; psoriatic arthritis; rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low-dose maintenance therapy). For the treatment of dermatomyositis, polymyositis, and systemic lupus erythematosus. B. For Intra-articular Or Soft Tissue Administration ( See WARNINGS ) Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is indicated as adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in acute gouty arthritis, acute and subacute bursitis, acute nonspecific tenosynovitis, epicondylitis, rheumatoid arthritis, synovitis of osteoarthritis. C. For Intralesional Administration Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is indicated for intralesional use in alopecia areata, discoid lupus erythematosus; keloids, localized hypertrophic, infiltrated inflammatory lesions of granuloma annulare, lichen planus, lichen simplex chronicus (neurodermatitis) and psoriatic plaques; necrobiosis lipoidica diabeticorum. Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension also may be useful in cystic tumors of an aponeurosis or tendon (ganglia). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lidocaine hydrochloride injection is indicated for production of local or regional anesthesia by infiltration techniques such as percutaneous injection and intravenous regional anesthesia by peripheral nerve block techniques such as brachial plexus and intercostal and by central neural techniques such as lumbar and caudal epidural blocks, when the accepted procedures for these techniques as described in standard textbooks are observed. For use as an first aid antiseptic pre-operative skin preperation INDICATIONS AND USAGE This parenteral preparation is indicated only for diluting or dissolving drugs for intravenous, intramuscular or subcutaneous injection, according to instructions of the manufacturer of the drug to be administered. Uses For first aid to decrease germs in minor cuts scrapes burns For preparation of the skin prior to injection apply a swab to the area of skin for injection for sterilization & disinfection Use First aid to help prevent the risk of infection in. minor cuts scrapes burns Wipe injection site vigorously.Discard after use.
Dosage: Directions clean the affected area apply a small amount of this product on the area 1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage if bandaged, let dry first Directions clean affected area apply small amount of this product on the area 1-3 times daily if bandaged, let dry first may be covered with a sterile bandage Other Information Store at Room Temperature 15 - 30 C (59 - 86 F) Directions clean the affected area discard after a single use may be covered with a sterile bandage 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Not for intrathecal use. ( 2.1 ) Avoid use of solutions containing antimicrobial preservatives (i.e., multiple-dose vials) for epidural or caudal anesthesia. ( 2.1 , 5.4 ) Three mL of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection without antimicrobial preservative (0.5% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine) is recommended for use as a test dose prior to caudal and lumbar epidural blocks when clinical conditions permit. ( 2.4 ) See full prescribing information for: Recommended concentrations and dosages of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection according to type of block. ( 2.2 ) Additional dosage and administration information pertaining to use in epidural anesthesia, test dose for caudal and lumbar epidural blocks, use in dentistry, and use in ophthalmic surgery. ( 2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is not for intrathecal use. Avoid use of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection solutions containing antimicrobial preservatives (i.e., multiple-dose vials) for epidural or caudal anesthesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Discard unused portions of solution not containing preservatives, i.e., those supplied in single-dose vials, following initial use. Visually inspect this product for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection are clear, colorless solutions. Do not administer solutions which are discolored or contain particulate matter. Mixing or the prior or intercurrent use of any other local anesthetic with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is not recommended because of insufficient data on the clinical use of such mixtures. Administration Precautions Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection are to be administered in carefully adjusted dosages by or under the supervision of experienced clinicians who are well versed in the diagnosis and management of dose-related toxicity and other acute emergencies which might arise from the block to be employed. Use Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection only if the following are immediately available: oxygen, cardiopulmonary resuscitative equipment and drugs, and the personnel resources needed for proper management of toxic reactions and related emergencies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6) , Overdosage (10) ] . The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. Monitor for neurologic and cardiovascular effects related to local anesthetic systemic toxicity when additional local anesthetics are administered with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Drug Interactions (7.1) , Overdosage (10) ] . Aspirate for blood or cerebrospinal fluid (where applicable) prior to injecting Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection, both the initial dose and all subsequent doses, to avoid intravascular or intrathecal injection. However, a negative aspiration for blood or cerebrospinal fluid does not ensure against an intravascular or intrathecal injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . Avoid rapid injection of a large volume of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and use fractional (incremental) doses when feasible. During major regional nerve blocks, such as those of the brachial plexus or lower extremity, the patient should have an indwelling intravenous catheter to assure adequate intravenous access. The lowest dosage of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection that results in effective anesthesia should be used to avoid high plasma levels and serious adverse reactions. Perform careful and constant monitoring of cardiovascular and respiratory (adequacy of oxygenation and ventilation) vital signs and the patient's level of consciousness after each local anesthetic injection. Use Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection in carefully restricted quantities in areas of the body supplied by end arteries or having otherwise compromised blood supply such as digits, nose, external ear, or penis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . 2.2 Recommended Concentrations and Dosages of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection The dosage of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection administered varies with the anesthetic procedure, the area to be anesthetized, the vascularity of the tissues, the number of neuronal segments to be blocked, the depth of anesthesia and degree of muscle relaxation required, the duration of anesthesia desired, individual tolerance, and the physical condition of the patient. Administer the smallest dosage and concentration required to produce the desired result. The types of block and recommended Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection concentrations are shown in Table 1. Table 1. Types of Block and Recommended Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection Concentrations Type of Block Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) is not recommended for nonobstetrical surgical procedures in pregnant patients. 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 0.5% (5 mg/mL) ✓= indicated use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Local infiltration ✓ ✓ Peripheral nerve block ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Retrobulbar block ✓ Sympathetic block ✓ Caudal block Avoid use of multiple-dose vials of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection for caudal or epidural anesthesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] . ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Lumbar epidural block ✓ ✓ ✓ (not for obstetrical anesthesia) ✓ ✓ Epidural test dose ✓ Dental block ✓ At recommended dosages, Bupivacaine Hydrochloride/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine produces complete sensory block, but the effect on motor function differs among the three concentrations. Table 2 provides information on the expected effect on motor function for the three concentrations. Table 2. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection Concentration vs. Motor Function Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Concentration Motor Function 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) These products include Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection [the epinephrine concentration (1:200,000) is not included in the table]. When used for caudal, epidural, or peripheral nerve block, produces incomplete motor block. Should be used for operations in which muscle relaxation is not important, or when another means of providing muscle relaxation is used concurrently. Onset of action may be slower than with the 0.5% (5 mg/mL) or 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) solutions. 0.5% (5 mg/mL) Provides motor blockade for caudal, epidural, or nerve block, but muscle relaxation may be inadequate for operations in which complete muscle relaxation is essential. 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) These are only Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection products [there is no 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) concentration for Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection]. Produces complete motor block. Most useful for epidural block in abdominal operations requiring complete muscle relaxation, and for retrobulbar anesthesia. Not for obstetrical anesthesia. The duration of anesthesia with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is such that for most indications, a single-dose is sufficient. The maximum dosage limit within the recommended dosage range must be individualized in each case after evaluating the size and physical status of the patient, as well as the anticipated rate of systemic absorption from a particular injection site. The dosages in Table 3 are recommended as a guide for use in the average adult. These doses may be repeated once every three hours. Do not exceed a total daily dosage of 400 mg in 24 hours. The duration of anesthetic effect may be prolonged by the addition of epinephrine. Table 3. Recommended Concentrations and Doses of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection in Adults Type of Block Concentration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Each Dose Motor Block With continuous (intermittent) techniques, repeat doses increase the degree of motor block. The first repeat dose of 0.5% (5 mg/mL) may produce complete motor block. Intercostal nerve block with 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) also may produce complete motor block for intra-thoracic and upper intra-abdominal surgery. mL mg of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Local infiltration 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) Solutions with or without epinephrine (i.e., applies to Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection). The Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection products include epinephrine (1:200,000). Up to 70 (without epinephrine) Up to 175 (without epinephrine) ― Up to 90 (with epinephrine) Up to 225 (with epinephrine) Peripheral nerve block 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 5–35 (without epinephrine) 25–175 (without epinephrine) moderate to complete 5–45 (with epinephrine) 25–225 (with epinephrine) 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 5–70 (without epinephrine) 12.5–175 (without epinephrine) moderate to complete 5–90 (with epinephrine) 12.5–225 (with epinephrine) Retrobulbar block [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) 2–4 15–30 complete Sympathetic block 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 20–50 50–125 ― Caudal block [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 15–30 75–150 moderate to complete 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 15–30 37.5–75 moderate Lumbar epidural block [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) For single-dose use; not for intermittent epidural technique. 10–20 75–150 complete 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 10–20 50–100 moderate to complete 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 10–20 25–50 partial to moderate Epidural test dose [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] 0.5% (5 mg/mL) with epinephrine 2–3 10–15 (10–15 micrograms epinephrine) ― Dental [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] 0.5% (5 mg/mL) with epinephrine 1.8–3.6 per site 9–18 per site ― 2.3 Use in Epidural Anesthesia During the administration of epidural anesthesia, it is recommended that a test dose of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection without antimicrobial preservative (0.5% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine) be administered initially and the effects monitored before the full dose is given. When using a "continuous" catheter technique, test doses should be given prior to both the initial and all supplemental doses, because a catheter in the epidural space can migrate into a blood vessel or through the dura [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . During epidural administration, administer Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection, 0.5% (5 mg/mL) and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) solutions in incremental doses of 3 mL to 5 mL with sufficient time between doses to detect toxic manifestations of unintentional intravascular or intrathecal injection. Administer injections slowly, with frequent aspirations before and during the injection to avoid intravascular injection. Perform syringe aspirations before and during each supplemental injection in continuous (intermittent) catheter techniques. In obstetrics, use ONLY the 0.5% (5 mg/mL) and 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) concentrations of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]; incremental doses of 3 mL to 5 mL of the 0.5% (5 mg/mL) solution not exceeding 50 mg to 100 mg at any dosing interval are recommended. Repeat doses should be preceded by a test dose containing epinephrine if not clinically contraindicated. Use only the single-dose vials for caudal or epidural anesthesia; avoid use of the multiple-dose vials for these procedures, which contain a preservative [see Dosage and Administration (2.1 , 2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.4 , 5.9) ] . 2.4 Test Dose for Caudal and Lumbar Epidural Blocks Three mL of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection without antimicrobial preservative (0.5% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine) is recommended for use as a test dose prior to caudal and lumbar epidural blocks when clinical conditions permit. This test dose may serve as a warning of unintended intravascular or intrathecal injection. Closely monitor for early clinical signs of toxicity following each test dose [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . Allot adequate time for onset of spinal block to detect possible intrathecal injection. An intravascular or intrathecal injection is still possible even if results of the test dose are negative. The test dose itself may produce a systemic toxic reaction, high spinal, or cardiovascular effects from the epinephrine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.9) , Overdosage (10) ]. 2.5 Use in Dentistry Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection 0.5% (5 mg/mL) is recommended for infiltration and block injection in the maxillary and mandibular area when a longer duration of local anesthesia is desired, such as for procedures generally associated with significant postoperative pain. The average dose of 1.8 mL (9 mg) per injection site will usually suffice; an occasional second dose of 1.8 mL (9 mg) may be used if necessary to produce adequate anesthesia after allowing 2 to 10 minutes for block onset [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Use the lowest effective dose and allow time between injections; it is recommended that the total dose for all injection sites, spread out over a single dental sitting, not exceed 90 mg for a healthy adult patient (ten 1.8 mL injections of 0.5% (5 mg/mL) Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection). Inject slowly and with frequent aspirations. 2.6 Use in Ophthalmic Surgery When Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) is used for retrobulbar block, complete corneal anesthesia usually precedes onset of clinically acceptable external ocular muscle akinesia. Therefore, presence of akinesia rather than anesthesia alone should determine readiness of the patient for surgery [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15) ] . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Because of possible physical incompatibilities, methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension should not be diluted or mixed with other solutions. The initial dosage of parenterally administered methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension will vary from 4 mg to 120 mg, depending on the specific disease entity being treated. However, in certain overwhelming, acute, life-threatening situations, administration in dosages exceeding the usual dosages may be justified and may be in multiples of the oral dosages. It Should Be Emphasized that Dosage Requirements Are Variable and Must Be Individualized on the Basis of the Disease Under Treatment and the Response of the Patient. After a favorable response is noted, the proper maintenance dosage should be determined by decreasing the initial drug dosage in small decrements at appropriate time intervals until the lowest dosage which will maintain an adequate clinical response is reached. Situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process, the patient’s individual drug responsiveness, and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease entity under treatment. In this latter situation, it may be necessary to increase the dosage of the corticosteroid for a period of time consistent with the patient’s condition. If after long-term therapy the drug is to be stopped, it is recommended that it be withdrawn gradually rather than abruptly. A. Administration for Local Effect Therapy with methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension does not obviate the need for the conventional measures usually employed. Although this method of treatment will ameliorate symptoms, it is in no sense a cure and the hormone has no effect on the cause of the inflammation. 1. Rheumatoid Arthritis and Osteoarthritis. The dose for intra-articular administration depends upon the size of the joint and varies with the severity of the condition in the individual patient. In chronic cases, injections may be repeated at intervals ranging from one to five or more weeks, depending upon the degree of relief obtained from the initial injection. The doses in the following table are given as a general guide: Size of Joint Examples Range of Dosage Large Knees Ankles Shoulders 20 mg to 80 mg Medium Elbows Wrists 10 mg to 40 mg Small Metacarpophalangeal Interphalangeal Sternoclavicular Acromioclavicular 4 mg to 10 mg Procedure: It is recommended that the anatomy of the joint involved be reviewed before attempting intra-articular injection. In order to obtain the full anti-inflammatory effect, it is important that the injection be made into the synovial space. Employing the same sterile technique as for a lumbar puncture, a sterile 20 to 24 gauge needle (on a dry syringe) is quickly inserted into the synovial cavity. Procaine infiltration is elective. The aspiration of only a few drops of joint fluid proves the joint space has been entered by the needle. The injection site for each joint is determined by that location where the synovial cavity is most superficial and most free of large vessels and nerves. With the needle in place, the aspirating syringe is removed and replaced by a second syringe containing the desired amount of methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension. The plunger is then pulled outward slightly to aspirate synovial fluid and to make sure the needle is still in the synovial space. After injection, the joint is moved gently a few times to aid mixing of the synovial fluid and the suspension. The site is covered with a small sterile dressing. Suitable sites for intra-articular injection are the knee, ankle, wrist, elbow, shoulder, phalangeal, and hip joints. Since difficulty is not infrequently encountered in entering the hip joint, precautions should be taken to avoid any large blood vessels in the area. Joints not suitable for injection are those that are anatomically inaccessible such as the spinal joints and those like the sacroiliac joints that are devoid of synovial space. Treatment failures are most frequently the result of failure to enter the joint space. Little or no benefit follows injection into surrounding tissue. If failures occur when injections into the synovial spaces are certain, as determined by aspiration of fluid, repeated injections are usually futile. If a local anesthetic is used prior to injection of methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension, the anesthetic package insert should be read carefully and all the precautions observed. 2. Bursitis . The area around the injection site is prepared in a sterile way and a wheal at the site made with 1 percent procaine hydrochloride solution. A 20 to 24 gauge needle attached to a dry syringe is inserted into the bursa and the fluid aspirated. The needle is left in place and the aspirating syringe changed for a small syringe containing the desired dose. After injection, the needle is withdrawn and a small dressing applied. 3. Miscellaneous: Ganglion, Tendinitis, Epicondylitis. In the treatment of conditions such as tendinitis or tenosynovitis, care should be taken following application of a suitable antiseptic to the overlying skin to inject the suspension into the tendon sheath rather than into the substance of the tendon. The tendon may be readily palpated when placed on a stretch. When treating conditions such as epicondylitis, the area of greatest tenderness should be outlined carefully and the suspension infiltrated into the area. For ganglia of the tendon sheaths, the suspension is injected directly into the cyst. In many cases, a single injection causes a marked decrease in the size of the cystic tumor and may effect disappearance. The usual sterile precautions should be observed, of course, with each injection. The dose in the treatment of the various conditions of the tendinous or bursal structures listed above varies with the condition being treated and ranges from 4 mg to 30 mg. In recurrent or chronic conditions, repeated injections may be necessary. 4. Injections for Local Effect in Dermatologic Conditions . Following cleansing with an appropriate antiseptic such as 70% alcohol, 20 mg to 60 mg is injected into the lesion. It may be necessary to distribute doses ranging from 20 mg to 40 mg by repeated local injections in the case of large lesions. Care should be taken to avoid injection of sufficient material to cause blanching since this may be followed by a small slough. One to four injections are usually employed, the intervals between injections varying with the type of lesion being treated and the duration of improvement produced by the initial injection. B. Administration for Systemic Effect The intramuscular dosage will vary with the condition being treated. When employed as a temporary substitute for oral therapy, a single injection during each 24-hour period of a dose of the suspension equal to the total daily oral dose of methylprednisolone tablets, USP is usually sufficient. When a prolonged effect is desired, the weekly dose may be calculated by multiplying the daily oral dose by 7 and given as a single intramuscular injection. In pediatric patients, the initial dose of methylprednisolone may vary depending on the specific disease entity being treated. Dosage must be individualized according to the severity of the disease and response of the patient. The recommended dosage may be reduced for pediatric patients, but dosage should be governed by the severity of the condition rather than by strict adherence to the ratio indicated by age or body weight. In patients with the adrenogenital syndrome , a single intramuscular injection of 40 mg every two weeks may be adequate. For maintenance of patients with rheumatoid arthritis , the weekly intramuscular dose will vary from 40 mg to 120 mg. The usual dosage for patients with dermatologic lesions benefited by systemic corticoid therapy is 40 mg to 120 mg of methylprednisolone acetate administered intramuscularly at weekly intervals for one to four weeks. In acute severe dermatitis due to poison ivy, relief may result within 8 to 12 hours following intramuscular administration of a single-dose of 80 mg to 120 mg. In chronic contact dermatitis, repeated injections at 5 to 10 day intervals may be necessary. In seborrheic dermatitis, a weekly dose of 80 mg may be adequate to control the condition. Following intramuscular administration of 80 mg to 120 mg to asthmatic patients, relief may result within 6 to 48 hours and persist for several days to two weeks. If signs of stress are associated with the condition being treated, the dosage of the suspension should be increased. If a rapid hormonal effect of maximum intensity is required, the intravenous administration of highly soluble methylprednisolone sodium succinate is indicated. For the purpose of comparison, the following is the equivalent milligram dose of the various glucocorticoids: Cortisone, 25 Triamcinolone, 4 Hydrocortisone, 20 Paramethasone, 2 Prednisolone, 5 Betamethasone, 0.75 Prednisone, 5 Dexamethasone, 0.75 Methylprednisolone, 4 These dose relationships apply only to oral or intravenous administration of these compounds. When these substances or their derivatives are injected intramuscularly or into joint spaces, their relative properties may be greatly altered. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Table 1 (Recommended Dosages) summarizes the recommended volumes and concentrations of lidocaine hydrochloride injection for various types of anesthetic procedures. The dosages suggested in this table are for normal healthy adults and refer to the use of epinephrine-free solutions. When larger volumes are required, only solutions containing epinephrine should be used except in those cases where vasopressor drugs may be contraindicated. There have been adverse event reports of chondrolysis in patients receiving intra-articular infusions of local anesthetics following arthroscopic and other surgical procedures. Lidocaine hydrochloride injection is not approved for this use (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). These recommended doses serve only as a guide to the amount of anesthetic required for most routine procedures. The actual volumes and concentrations to be used depend on a number of factors such as type and extent of surgical procedure, depth of anesthesia and degree of muscular relaxation required, duration of anesthesia required, and the physical condition of the patient. In all cases the lowest concentration and smallest dose that will produce the desired result should be given. Dosages should be reduced for children and for the elderly and debilitated patients and patients with cardiac and/or liver disease. The onset of anesthesia, the duration of anesthesia and the degree of muscular relaxation are proportional to the volume and concentration (i.e., total dose) of local anesthetic used. Thus, an increase in volume and concentration of lidocaine hydrochloride injection will decrease the onset of anesthesia, prolong the duration of anesthesia, provide a greater degree of muscular relaxation and increase the segmental spread of anesthesia. However, increasing the volume and concentration of lidocaine hydrochloride injection may result in a more profound fall in blood pressure when used in epidural anesthesia. Although the incidence of side effects with lidocaine hydrochloride is quite low, caution should be exercised when employing large volumes and concentrations, since the incidence of side effects is directly proportional to the total dose of local anesthetic agent injected. Epidural Anesthesia For epidural anesthesia the following dosage form of lidocaine hydrochloride injection is recommended: 1% without epinephrine 30 mL single dose vials Although this solution is intended specifically for epidural anesthesia, it may also be used for infiltration and peripheral nerve block, provided it is employed as a single dose unit. This solution contains no bacteriostatic agent. In epidural anesthesia, the dosage varies with the number of dermatomes to be anesthetized (generally 2 to 3 mL of the indicated concentration per dermatome). Caudal and Lumbar Epidural Block As a precaution against the adverse experience sometimes observed following unintentional penetration of the subarachnoid space, a test dose such as 2 to 3 mL of 1.5% lidocaine hydrochloride should be administered at least 5 minutes prior to injecting the total volume required for a lumbar or caudal epidural block. The test dose should be repeated if the patient is moved in a manner that may have displaced the catheter. Epinephrine, if contained in the test dose (10 to 15 mcg have been suggested), may serve as a warning of unintentional intravascular injection. If injected into a blood vessel, this amount of epinephrine is likely to produce a transient “epinephrine response” within 45 seconds, consisting of an increase in heart rate and systolic blood pressure, circumoral pallor, palpitations and nervousness in the unsedated patient. The sedated patient may exhibit only a pulse rate increase of 20 or more beats per minute for 15 or more seconds. Patients on beta blockers may not manifest changes in heart rate, but blood pressure monitoring can detect an evanescent rise in systolic blood pressure. Adequate time should be allowed for onset of anesthesia after administration of each test dose. The rapid injection of a large volume of lidocaine hydrochloride injection through the catheter should be avoided, and, when feasible, fractional doses should be administered. In the event of the known injection of a large volume of local anesthetic solution into the subarachnoid space, after suitable resuscitation and if the catheter is in place, consider attempting the recovery of drug by draining a moderate amount of cerebrospinal fluid (such as 10 mL) through the epidural catheter. Directions Povidone iodine: Tear at notch, remove applicator, use only once. As a first aid antiseptic clean affected area apply 1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage, if bandaged let dry. For preoperative patient skin preparation clean area apply to operative site prior to surgery using the applicator DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The volume of the preparation to be used for diluting or dissolving any drug for injection, is dependent on the vehicle concentration, dose and route of administration as recommended by the manufacturer. This parenteral should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The volume of the preparation to be used for diluting or dissolving any drug for injection is dependent on the vehicle concentration, dose and route of administration as recommended by the manufacturer. Directions apply to skin as needed discard after single use for external use only Directions apply freely and rub briskly with hands or towel. One piece at the time, Discard after use.
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Flammable Keep away from fire or flame, heat, spark, electrical Do not use as a fuel source Warnings For external use only. if taken internally, serious gastic disturbances will result flammable, keep away from fire or flame. use only in a well-ventilated area; fumes may be toxic Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture woods, animal bites or serious burns. When using this product do not get into eyes do not apply over large areas of the body do not use longer than one week unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if condition persists or gets worse. Keep out of reach of children. In case of ingestion, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For External Use Only Flammable, Keep away from fire or flame Flammable, keep away from fire or flame. When using this product do not get in the eyes or apply over large areas of the body in case of deep or puncture wounds, animal bites or serious burns, consult a doctor do not use longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if the condition persists or gets worse Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. WARNINGS Serious Neurologic Adverse Reactions with Epidural Administration Serious neurologic events, some resulting in death, have been reported with epidural injection of corticosteroids. Specific events reported include, but are not limited to, spinal cord infarction, paraplegia, quadriplegia, cortical blindness, and stroke. These serious neurologic events have been reported with and without use of fluoroscopy. The safety and effectiveness of epidural administration of corticosteroids have not been established, and corticosteroids are not approved for this use. General This product is not suitable for multi-dose use. Following administration of the desired dose, any remaining suspension should be discarded. Injection of methylprednisolone acetate may result in dermal and/or subdermal changes forming depressions in the skin at the injection site. In order to minimize the incidence of dermal and subdermal atrophy, care must be exercised not to exceed recommended doses in injections. Multiple small injections into the area of the lesion should be made whenever possible. The technique of intra-articular and intramuscular injection should include precautions against injection or leakage into the dermis. Injection into the deltoid muscle should be avoided because of a high incidence of subcutaneous atrophy. It is critical that, during administration of methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension, appropriate technique be used and care taken to ensure proper placement of drug. Rare instances of anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Increased dosage of rapidly acting corticosteroids is indicated in patients on corticosteroid therapy subjected to any unusual stress before, during, and after the stressful situation. Results from one multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled study with methylprednisolone hemisuccinate, an IV corticosteroid, showed an increase in early (at 2 weeks) and late (at 6 months) mortality in patients with cranial trauma who were determined not to have other clear indications for corticosteroid treatment. High doses of systemic corticosteroids, including methylprednisolone acetate, should not be used for the treatment of traumatic brain injury. Cardio-renal Average and large doses of corticosteroids can cause elevation of blood pressure, salt and water retention, and increased excretion of potassium. These effects are less likely to occur with synthetic derivatives when used in large doses. Dietary salt restriction and potassium supplementation may be necessary. All corticosteroids increase calcium excretion. Literature reports suggest an apparent association between use of corticosteroids and left ventricular free wall rupture after a recent myocardial infarction; therefore, therapy with corticosteroids should be used with great caution in these patients. Endocrine Hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis suppression. Cushing’s syndrome, and Hyperglycemia: Monitor patients for these conditions with chronic use. Corticosteroids can produce reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment. Drug induced secondary adrenocortical insufficiency may be minimized by gradual reduction of dosage. This type of relative insufficiency may persist for months after discontinuation of therapy; therefore, in any situation of stress occurring during that period, hormone therapy should be reinstituted. Infections General Persons who are on corticosteroids are more susceptible to infections than are healthy individuals. There may be decreased resistance and inability to localize infection when corticosteroids are used. Infections with any pathogen (viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan, or helminthic) in any location of the body, may be associated with the use of corticosteroids alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents. These infections may be mild, but can be severe and at times fatal. With increasing doses of corticosteroids, the rate of occurrence of infectious complications increases. Do not use intra-articularly, intrabursally, or for intratendinous administration for local effect in the presence of an acute infection. Corticosteroids may mask some signs of infection and new infections may appear during their use. Fungal Infections Corticosteroids may exacerbate systemic fungal infections and therefore should not be used in the presence of such infections unless they are needed to control drug interactions. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions , Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents ). Special Pathogens Latent disease may be activated or there may be an exacerbation of intercurrent infections due to pathogens, including those caused by Amoeba, Candida, Cryptococcus, Mycobacterium, Nocardia, Pneumocystis, and Toxoplasma. It is recommended that latent amebiasis or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating corticosteroid therapy in any patient who has spent time in the tropics or in any patient with unexplained diarrhea. Similarly, corticosteroids should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides (threadworm) infestation. In such patients, corticosteroid-induced immunosuppression may lead to Strongyloides hyperinfection and dissemination with widespread larval migration, often accompanied by severe enterocolitis and potentially fatal gram-negative septicemia. Corticosteroids should not be used in cerebral malaria. There is currently no evidence of benefit from steroids in this condition. Tuberculosis The use of corticosteroids in active tuberculosis should be restricted to those cases of fulminating or disseminated tuberculosis in which the corticosteroid is used for the management of the disease in conjunction with an appropriate antituberculous regimen. If corticosteroids are indicated in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, close observation is necessary, as reactivation of the disease may occur. During prolonged corticosteroid therapy, these patients should receive chemoprophylaxis. Vaccinations Administration of live or live, attenuated vaccines is contraindicated in patients receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids. Killed or inactivated vaccines may be administered. However, the response to such vaccines cannot be predicted. Immunization procedures may be undertaken in patients who are receiving corticosteroids as replacement therapy (e.g., for Addison’s disease). Viral Infections Chicken pox and measles can have a more serious or even fatal course in pediatric and adult patients on corticosteroids. In pediatric and adult patients who have not had these diseases, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If exposed to chicken pox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If exposed to measles, prophylaxis with immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated (see the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information). If chicken pox develops, treatment with antiviral agents should be considered. Ophthalmic Use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts, glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves, and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to bacteria, fungi, or viruses. The use of systemic corticosteroids is not recommended in the treatment of optic neuritis and may lead to an increase in the risk of new episodes. Corticosteroids should be used cautiously in patients with ocular herpes simplex because of corneal perforation. Corticosteroids should not be used in active ocular herpes simplex. WARNINGS LIDOCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE INJECTION FOR INFILTRATION AND NERVE BLOCK SHOULD BE EMPLOYED ONLY BY CLINICIANS WHO ARE WELL VERSED IN DIAGNOSIS AND MANAGEMENT OF DOSE-RELATED TOXICITY AND OTHER ACUTE EMERGENCIES THAT MIGHT ARISE FROM THE BLOCK TO BE EMPLOYED AND THEN ONLY AFTER ENSURING THE IMMEDIATE AVAILABILITY OF OXYGEN, OTHER RESUSCITATIVE DRUGS, CARDIOPULMONARY EQUIPMENT AND THE PERSONNEL NEEDED FOR PROPER MANAGEMENT OF TOXIC REACTIONS AND RELATED EMERGENCIES (see also ADVERSE REACTIONS and PRECAUTIONS ). DELAY IN PROPER MANAGEMENT OF DOSE-RELATED TOXICITY, UNDERVENTILATION FROM ANY CAUSE AND/OR ALTERED SENSITIVITY MAY LEAD TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF ACIDOSIS, CARDIAC ARREST AND, POSSIBLY, DEATH. Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use. Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia, patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia, cardiac or pulmonary compromise, infants under 6 months of age, and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition. If local anesthetics must be used in these patients, close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended. Signs of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure, and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and/or abnormal coloration of the blood. Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise; therefore, immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects, including seizures, coma, arrhythmias, and death. Discontinue lidocaine hydrochloride and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of the signs and symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care, i.e., oxygen therapy, hydration. A more severe clinical presentation may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. Intra-articular infusions of local anesthetics following arthroscopic and other surgical procedures is an unapproved use, and there have been post-marketing reports of chondrolysis in patients receiving such infusions. The majority of reported cases of chondrolysis have involved the shoulder joint; cases of gleno-humeral chondrolysis have been described in pediatric and adult patients following intra-articular infusions of local anesthetics with and without epinephrine for periods of 48 to 72 hours. There is insufficient information to determine whether shorter infusion periods are not associated with these findings. The time of onset of symptoms, such as joint pain, stiffness and loss of motion can be variable, but may begin as early as the 2 nd month after surgery. Currently, there is no effective treatment for chondrolysis; patients who experienced chondrolysis have required additional diagnostic and therapeutic procedures and some required arthroplasty or shoulder replacement. To avoid intravascular injection, aspiration should be performed before the local anesthetic solution is injected. The needle must be repositioned until no return of blood can be elicited by aspiration. Note, however, that the absence of blood in the syringe does not guarantee that intravascular injection has been avoided. Anaphylactic reactions may occur following administration of lidocaine hydrochloride (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). In the case of severe reaction, discontinue the use of the drug. Warnings: FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY WARNINGS Intravenous administration of Sterile Water for Injection without a solute may result in hemolysis. Warnings For external use only Flammable - keep away from fire or flame Do not use with electrocautery procedures When using this product do not get into eyes apply over large areas of the body in case of deep or puncture wounds, animal bites or serious burns consult a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if condition persists or gets worse or lasts for more than 72 hours do not use longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Keep out of reach of children. ■ For external use only. ■ Do not use in eyes. ■ lf swallowed, get medical help promptly. ■ Stop use, ask doctor lf irritation occurs. ■ Keep out of reach of children. Flammable, keep way from spark, heat and flame. Use in well ventilated area, fumes may be harmful. 1. For external use only; 2. Flammable. Keep away from heat or flame; 3. Aviod to contact eyes. Flush throoughly with water in case of contact; 4. Stop use if irritation or redness develop; 5. Do not use with electrocautery procedures; Keep out of reach of children.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is contraindicated in: obstetrical paracervical block anesthesia. Its use in this technique has resulted in fetal bradycardia and death. intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier Block) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. patients with a known hypersensitivity to bupivacaine or to any local anesthetic agent of the amide-type or to other components of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection. Obstetrical paracervical block anesthesia. ( 4 ) Intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier Block). ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to bupivacaine or to any local anesthetic agent of the amide-type or to other components of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection. ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to the product and its constituents. Intramuscular corticosteroid preparations are contraindicated for idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura. Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is contraindicated for intrathecal administration. This formulation of methylprednisolone acetate has been associated with reports of severe medical events when administered by this route. Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is contraindicated in systemic fungal infections, except when administered as an intra-articular injection for localized joint conditions (see WARNINGS : Infections, Fungal Infections ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Lidocaine hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type. CONTRAINDICATIONS Sterile Water for Injection, USP must be made approximately isotonic prior to use.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Local Anesthetics : The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. Monitor for neurologic and cardiovascular effects when additional local anesthetics are administered. ( 7.1 ) Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants : Administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. Concurrent use of these agents should generally be avoided. ( 5.6 , 7.2 ) Ergot-Type Oxytocic Drugs : Concurrent administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and ergot-type oxytocic drugs may cause severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents. ( 5.6 , 7.3 ) Nonselective Beta-Adrenergic Antagonists : Administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection (containing a vasoconstrictor) in patients receiving nonselective beta-adrenergic antagonists may cause severe hypertension and bradycardia. ( 5.6 , 7.4 ) Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia : Patients are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to nitrates, nitrites, local anesthetics, antineoplastic agents, antibiotics, antimalarials, anticonvulsants, and other drugs. ( 7.5 ) Potent Inhalation Anesthetics : Serious dose-related cardiac arrhythmias may occur if preparations containing a vasoconstrictor such as epinephrine are used in patients during or following the administration of potent inhalation anesthetics. ( 5.13 , 7.6 ) 7.1 Local Anesthetics The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. If coadministration of other local anesthetics with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection cannot be avoided, monitor patients for neurologic and cardiovascular effects related to local anesthetic systemic toxicity [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants The administration Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors, or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful monitoring of the patient's hemodynamic status is essential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . 7.3 Ergot-Type Oxytocic Drugs Concurrent administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and ergot-type oxytocic drugs may cause severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents. Avoid use of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine concomitantly with ergot-type oxytocic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. 7.4 Nonselective Beta-Adrenergic Antagonists Administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection (containing a vasoconstrictor) in patients receiving nonselective beta-adrenergic antagonists may cause severe hypertension and bradycardia. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful monitoring of the patient's blood pressure and heart rate is essential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. 7.5 Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia Patients who are administered Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to following drugs, which could include other local anesthetics [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia: Class Examples Nitrates/Nitrites nitric oxide, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, nitrous oxide Local anesthetics articaine, benzocaine, bupivacaine, lidocaine, mepivacaine, prilocaine, procaine, ropivacaine, tetracaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide, flutamide, hydroxyurea, isofamide, rasburicase Antibiotics dapsone, nitrofurantoin, para-aminosalicylic acid, sulfonamides Antimalarials chloroquine, primaquine Anticonvulsants phenobarbital, phenytoin, sodium valproate Other drugs acetaminophen, metoclopramide, quinine, sulfasalazine 7.6 Potent Inhalation Anesthetics Serious dose-related cardiac arrhythmias may occur if preparations containing a vasoconstrictor such as epinephrine (e.g., Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection) are used in patients during or following the administration of potent inhalation anesthetics [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] . 7.7 Phenothiazines and Butyrophenones Phenothiazines and butyrophenones may reduce or reverse the pressor effect of epinephrine. Concurrent use of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and these agents should generally be avoided. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful patient monitoring is essential. Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide : Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents: When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium depleting agents (e.g., amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics : Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions , Hepatic Enzyme Inhibitors ). Anticholinesterases: Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants , oral : Co-administration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics: Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentration, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular drugs: Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine: Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of oral corticosteroids. Cyclosporine: Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis glycosides: Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, including oral contraceptives: Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin): Drugs which induce cytochrome P450 3A4 enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Hepatic Enzyme Inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin and troleandomycin): Drugs which inhibit cytochrome P450 3A4 have the potential to result in increased plasma concentrations of corticosteroids. Ketoconazole : Ketoconazole has been reported to significantly decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) : Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Skin tests : Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Vaccines : Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS : Infections, Vaccinations ). Clinically Significant Drug Interactions The administration of local anesthetic solutions containing epinephrine or norepinephrine to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. Phenothiazines and butyrophenones may reduce or reverse the pressor effect of epinephrine. Concurrent administration of vasopressor drugs (for the treatment of hypotension related to obstetric blocks) and ergot-type oxytocic drugs may cause severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents.

=== NICOTINE POLACRILEX ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Stop smoking aid
Indications: Use reduces withdrawal symptoms, including nicotine craving, associated with quitting smoking Use • reduces withdrawal symptoms, including nicotine craving, associated with quitting smoking
Dosage: Directions 2 mg : if you are under 18 years of age, ask a doctor before use. No studies have been done to show if this product will work for you. before using this product, read the enclosed User’s Guide for complete directions and other important information begin using the lozenge on your quit day if you smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up, use 4 mg nicotine lozenge if you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up, use 2 mg nicotine lozenge according to the following 12 week schedule: Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 lozenge every 1 to 2 hours 1 lozenge every 2 to 4 hours 1 lozenge every 4 to 8 hours nicotine lozenge is a medicine and must be used a certain way to get the best results place the lozenge in your mouth and allow the lozenge to slowly dissolve (about 20-30 minutes). Minimize swallowing. Do not chew or swallow lozenge. you may feel a warm or tingling sensation occasionally move the lozenge from one side of your mouth to the other until completely dissolved (about 20-30 minutes) do not eat or drink 15 minutes before using or while the lozenge is in your mouth to improve your chances of quitting, use at least 9 lozenges per day for the first 6 weeks do not use more than one lozenge at a time or continuously use one lozenge after another since this may cause you hiccups, heartburn, nausea or other side effects do not use more than 5 lozenges in 6 hours. Do not use more than 20 lozenges per day. it is important to complete treatment. If you feel you need to use the lozenge for a longer period to keep from smoking, talk to your health care provider. 4 mg: if you are under 18 years of age, ask a doctor before use. before using this product, read the enclosed User’s Guide for complete directions and other important information begin using the lozenge on your quit day if you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up, use 2 mg nicotine lozenge if you smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up, use 4 mg nicotine lozenge according to the following 12 week schedule: Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 lozenge every 1 to 2 hours 1 lozenge every 2 to 4 hours 1 lozenge every 4 to 8 hours nicotine lozenge is a medicine and must be used a certain way to get the best results place the lozenge in your mouth and allow the lozenge to slowly dissolve (about 20-30 minutes). Do not chew or swallow lozenge . Do not use more than 20 lozenges per day . Directions • if you are under 18 years of age, ask a doctor before use. • before using this product, read the enclosed User’s Guide for complete directions and other important information • begin using the lozenge on your quit day • if you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up, use 2 mg nicotine lozenge • if you smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up, use 4 mg nicotine lozenge according to the following 12 week schedule: Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 lozenge every 1 to 2 hours 1 lozenge every 2 to 4 hours 1 lozenge every 4 to 8 hours • nicotine lozenge is a medicine and must be used a certain way to get the best results • place the lozenge in your mouth and allow the lozenge to slowly dissolve (about 20-30 minutes). • you may feel a warm or tingling sensation • occasionally move the lozenge from one side of your mouth to the other until completely dissolved (about 20-30 minutes) • do not eat or drink 15 minutes before using or while the lozenge is in your mouth • to improve your chances of quitting, use at least 9 lozenges per day for the first 6 weeks • do not use more than one lozenge at a time or continuously use one lozenge after another since this may cause you hiccups, heartburn, nausea or other side effects • do not use more than 5 lozenges in 6 hours. • it is important to complete treatment. Directions if you are under 18 years of age, ask a doctor before use. before using this product, read the enclosed User’s Guide for complete directions and other important information begin using the lozenge on your quit day if you smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up, use 4 mg nicotine lozenge if you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up, use 2 mg nicotine lozenge according to the following 12 week schedule: Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 lozenge every 1 to 2 hours 1 lozenge every 2 to 4 hours 1 lozenge every 4 to 8 hours nicotine lozenge is a medicine and must be used a certain way to get the best results place the lozenge in your mouth and allow the lozenge to slowly dissolve (about 20 to 30 minutes). you may feel a warm or tingling sensation occasionally move the lozenge from one side of your mouth to the other until completely dissolved (about 20 to 30 minutes) do not eat or drink 15 minutes before using or while the lozenge is in your mouth to improve your chances of quitting, use at least 9 lozenges per day for the first 6 weeks do not use more than one lozenge at a time or continuously use one lozenge after another since this may cause you hiccups, heartburn, nausea or other side effects do not use more than 5 lozenges in 6 hours. Directions if you are under 18 years of age, ask a doctor before use before using this product, read the enclosed User's Guide for complete directions and other important information begin using the gum on your quit day if you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up, use 2 mg nicotine gum if you smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up, use 4 mg nicotine gum according to the following 12 week schedule: Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 piece every 1 to 2 hours 1 piece every 2 to 4 hours 1 piece every 4 to 8 hours nicotine gum is a medicine and must be used a certain way to get the best results chew the gum slowly until it tingles. Then park it between your cheek and gum. When the tingle is gone, begin chewing again, until the tingle returns. repeat this process until most of the tingle is gone (about 30 minutes) do not eat or drink for 15 minutes before chewing the nicotine gum, or while chewing a piece to improve your chances of quitting, use at least 9 pieces per day for the first 6 weeks if you experience strong or frequent cravings, you may use a second piece within the hour. However, do not continuously use one piece after another since this may cause you hiccups, heartburn, nausea or other side effects. do not use more than 24 pieces a day it is important to complete treatment. If you feel you need to use the gum for a longer period to keep from smoking, talk to your health care provider. • before using this product, read the enclosed User’s Guide for complete directions and other important information • begin using the lozenge on your quit day • if you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up, use 2 mg nicotine lozenge • if you smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up, use 4 mg nicotine lozenge according to the following 12 week schedule: Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 lozenge every 1 to 2 hours 1 lozenge every 2 to 4 hours 1 lozenge every 4 to 8 hours • nicotine lozenge is a medicine and must be used a certain way to get the best results • place the lozenge in your mouth and allow the lozenge to slowly dissolve. • you may feel a warm or tingling sensation • occasionally move the lozenge from one side of your mouth to the other until completely dissolved • do not eat or drink 15 minutes before using or while the lozenge is in your mouth • to improve your chances of quitting, use at least 9 lozenges per day for the first 6 weeks • do not use more than one lozenge at a time or continuously use one lozenge after another since this may cause you hiccups, heartburn, nausea or other side effects • do not use more than 5 lozenges in 6 hours. Directions • if you are under 18 years of age, ask a doctor before use • before using this product, read the enclosed User’s Guide for complete directions and other important information • begin using the gum on your quit day • if you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up , use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum, 2 mg • if you smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up, use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum, 4 mg according to the following 12 week schedule: Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 piece every 1 to 2 hours 1 piece every 2 to 4 hours 1 piece every 4 to 8 hours • nicotine gum is a medicine and must be used a certain way to get the best results • chew the gum slowly until it tingles. • repeat this process until most of the tingle is gone (about 30 minutes) • do not eat or drink for 15 minutes before chewing the nicotine gum, or while chewing a piece • to improve your chances of quitting, use at least 9 pieces per day for the first 6 weeks • if you experience strong or frequent cravings, you may use a second piece within the hour. • do not use more than 24 pieces a day • it is important to complete treatment. Directions • if you are under 18 years of age, ask a doctor before use • before using this product, read the enclosed User’s Guide for complete directions and other important information • begin using the gum on your quit day • if you smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up, use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum, 4 mg • if you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up, use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum, 2 mg according to the following 12 week schedule: Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 piece every 1 to 2 hours 1 piece every 2 to 4 hours 1 piece every 4 to 8 hours • nicotine gum is a medicine and must be used a certain way to get the best results • chew the gum slowly until it tingles.
Warnings: Warnings If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, only use this medicine on the advice of your health care provider. Smoking can seriously harm your child. Try to stop smoking without using any nicotine replacement medicine. This medicine is believed to be safer than smoking. However, the risks to your child from this medicine are not fully known. Ask a doctor before use if you have a sodium-restricted diet heart disease, recent heart attack, or irregular heartbeat. Nicotine can increase your heart rate. high blood pressure not controlled with medication. Nicotine can increase your blood pressure. stomach ulcer or diabetes history of seizures Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are using a non-nicotine stop smoking drug taking prescription medicine for depression or asthma. Your prescription dose may need to be adjusted. Stop use and ask doctor if mouth problems occur persistent indigestion or severe sore throat occurs irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur you get symptoms of nicotine overdose such as nausea, vomiting, dizziness, diarrhea, weakness and rapid heartbeat you have symptoms of an allergic reaction (such as difficulty breathing or rash) Keep out of reach of children and pets Nicotine lozenges may have enough nicotine to make children and pets sick. If you need to remove the lozenge, wrap it in paper and throw away in the trash. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Ask a doctor before use if you have • a sodium-restricted diet • heart disease, recent heart attack, or irregular heartbeat. • high blood pressure not controlled with medication. • stomach ulcer or diabetes • history of seizures Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • using a non-nicotine stop smoking drug • taking prescription medicine for depression or asthma. Stop use and ask a doctor if • mouth problems occur • persistent indigestion or severe sore throat occurs • irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur • you get symptoms of nicotine overdose such as nausea, vomiting, dizziness, diarrhea, weakness and rapid heartbeat • you have symptoms of an allergic reaction (such as difficulty breathing or rash) Keep out of reach of children and pets. Nicotine lozenges may have enough nicotine to make children and pets sick. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222) Stop use and ask a doctor if mouth problems occur persistent indigestion or severe sore throat occurs irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur you get symptoms of nicotine overdose such as nausea, vomiting, dizziness, diarrhea, weakness and rapid heartbeat you have symptoms of an allergic reaction (such as difficulty breathing or rash) Keep out of reach of children and pets. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away Nicotine can increase blood pressure. Stop use and ask a doctor if mouth, teeth or jaw problems occur irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur you get symptoms of nicotine overdose such as nausea, vomiting, dizziness, diarrhea, weakness and rapid heartbeat you have symptoms of an allergic reaction (such as difficulty breathing or rash) Keep out of reach of children and pets. Pieces of nicotine gum may have enough nicotine to make children and pets sick. Wrap used pieces of gum in paper and throw away in the trash. Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease, recent heart attack, or irregular heartbeat. Stop use and ask a doctor if • mouth problems occur • persistent indigestion or severe sore throat occurs • irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur • you get symptoms of nicotine overdose such as nausea, vomiting, dizziness, diarrhea, weakness or rapid heartbeat • you have symptoms of an allergic reaction (such as difficulty breathing or rash) Keep out of reach of children and pets. Stop use and ask a doctor if • mouth, teeth or jaw problems occur • irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur • you get symptoms of nicotine overdose such as nausea, vomiting, dizziness, diarrhea, weakness and rapid heartbeat • you have symptoms of an allergic reaction (such as difficulty breathing or rash) Keep out of reach of children and pets. • stomach ulcer or diabetes • history of seizures Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • using a non-nicotine stop smoking drug • Taking a prescription medicine for depression or asthma.

=== OXYGEN ===
Matched labels: 10

=== LIDOCAINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Topical Analgesic Purpose Topical Antiseptic Purpose Analgesic Anorectal/Hemorrhoidal Purpose Topical anesthetic
Indications: Use(s) For the temporary relief of pain and itching associated with: • Sunburn • Minor burns • Insect bites • Cuts • Scrapes Use(s) For the temporary relief of pain associated with • Minor burns • Sunburn Use(s) • For the temporary relief of pain associated with • Minor burns • Sunburn For the temporary relief of pain, soreness, and burning. Helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids. Temporarily shrinks hemorrhoidal tissue. Temporarily provides a coating for the relief of anorectal discomforts. Temporarily protects the inflamed, irritated anorectal surface to help make bowel movements less painful. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lidocaine is indicated for the production of topical anesthesia of irritated or inflamed mucous membranes of the mouth and pharynx. It is also useful for reducing gagging during the taking of X-ray pictures and dental impressions. Lidocaine ointment, 5% is indicated for production of anesthesia of accessible mucous membranes of the oropharynx. It is also useful as an anesthetic lubricant for intubation and for the temporary relief of pain associated with minor burns, including sunburn, abrasions of the skin, and insect bites. Use temporarily relieves minor pain Uses For the temporary relief of pain Indications & Usage For the temporary relief of pain.
Dosage: Directions Adults and children 2 years and over: • Clean the affected area • Apply a small amount of this product on the area 3 to 4 times daily • May be covered with a sterile bandage Children under 2 years: • Consult a doctor Directions • Adults and children 2 years of age and older: Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily. • Children under 2 years of age: Consult a doctor Directions • Adults and children 2 years of age and older: Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • Children under 2 years of age: Consult a doctor Adults: when practical, cleanse area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly. Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or soft cloth before applying. Adults and children 12 years and older: apply externally to the affected area up to 4 times a day. Children under 12 years of age: consult a doctor. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult The maximum recommended single dose of lidocaine for healthy adults should be such that the dose of lidocaine does not exceed 4.5 mg/kg or 2 mg/lb body weight and does not in any case exceed a total of 300 mg. For symptomatic treatment of irritated or inflamed mucous membranes of the mouth and pharynx, the usual adult dose is 15 mL undiluted. For use in the mouth, the solution should be swished around in the mouth and spit out. For use in the pharynx, the undiluted solution should be gargled and may be swallowed. This dose should not be administered at intervals of less than three hours, and not more than eight doses should be given in a 24-hour period. The dosage should be adjusted commensurate with the patient’s age, weight and physical condition (see PRECAUTIONS ). Pediatric Care must be taken to ensure correct dosage in all pediatric patients as there have been cases of overdose due to inappropriate dosing. It is difficult to recommend a maximum dose of any drug for children since this varies as a function of age and weight. For children over 3 years of age who have a normal lean body mass and normal body development, the maximum dose is determined by the child’s weight or age. For example: in a child of 5 years weighing 50 lbs., the dose of lidocaine should not exceed 75 to 100 mg (3.7 to 5 mL of lidocaine). For infants and in children under 3 years of age, the solution should be accurately measured and no more than 1.2 mL be applied to the immediate area with a cotton-tipped applicator. Wait at least 3 hours before giving the next dose; a maximum of four doses may be given in a 12-hour period. Lidocaine should only be used if the underlying condition requires treatment with a volume of product that is less than or equal to 1.2 mL. When lidocaine ointment, 5% is used concomitantly with other products containing lidocaine, the total dose contributed by all formulations must be kept in mind. Adult A single application should not exceed 5 g of lidocaine ointment, 5%, containing 250 mg of lidocaine base (equivalent chemically to approximately 300 mg of lidocaine hydrochloride). This is roughly equivalent to squeezing a six (6) inch length of ointment from the tube. In a 70 kg adult this dose equals 3.6 mg/kg (1.6 mg/lb) lidocaine base. No more than one-half tube, approximately 17 to 20 g of ointment or 850 to 1000 mg lidocaine base, should be administered in any one day. Although the incidence of adverse effects with lidocaine ointment, 5% is quite low, caution should be exercised, particularly when employing large amounts, since the incidence of adverse effects is directly proportional to the total dose of local anesthetic agent administered. Dosage for children It is difficult to recommend a maximum dose of any drug for children since this varies as a function of age and weight. For children less than ten years who have a normal lean body mass and a normal lean body development, the maximum dose may be determined by the application of one of the standard pediatric drug formulas (e.g., Clark's rule). For example a child of five years weighing 50 lbs., the dose of lidocaine should not exceed 75 to 100 mg when calculated according to Clark's rule. In any case, the maximum amount of lidocaine administered should not exceed 4.5 mg/kg (2 mg/lb) of body weight. Administration For medical use, apply topically for adequate control of symptoms. The use of a sterile gauze pad is suggested for application to broken skin tissue. Apply to the tube prior to intubation. In dentistry, apply to previously dried oral mucosa. Subsequent removal of excess saliva with cotton rolls or saliva ejector minimizes dilution of the ointment, permits maximum penetration, and minimizes the possibility of swallowing the topical ointment. For use in connection with the insertion of new dentures, apply to all denture surfaces contacting mucosa. IMPORTANT: Patients should consult a dentist at intervals not exceeding 48 hours throughout the fitting period. Directions a dults and children over 12 years: ■ spray affected area every 6 to 8 hours, not to exceed 3 applications in a 24 hour period ■ product will dry quickly on its own, and does not need to be rubbed in children 12 years or younger: ask a doctor Directions adults/children Clean and dry affected area Peel patch off plastic liner and place patch on affected area for no more than 12 hours Wash hands after applying patch Under age 12, consult a physician before use For easier removal of the patch, apply rubbing alcohol or baby oil to adhesive edge while gently peeling. Store new and used patch away from children and pets. Directions: Clean and dry affected area Peel patch off plastic liner and place on affected area for no more than 12 hours Wash hands after applying patch. Under age 12, consult a physician before use For easier removal of the patc, apply rubbing alcohol or baby oil to adhesive edge while gently peeling
Warnings: Warnings For External Use Only. Do not use • In the eyes • Over large areas of the body or on deep puncture wounds, animal bites, or serious burns • In large quantities, particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas Stop use and ask a doctor if • The condition gets worse • Condition clears up and recurs within a few days • Condition persists for more than 7 days If pregnant or breast feeding Ask a health care professional before use. Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Do not use • On wounds or damaged skin • In large quantities, particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas When using this product • Avoid contact with the eyes • Do not bandage tightly Stop use and ask a doctor if • Condition worsens • Symptoms persist for more than 7 days • Symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings For External Use Only Do not use • On wounds or damaged skin • In large quantities, particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas When using this product • Avoid contact with the eyes • Do not bandage tightly Stop use and ask a doctor if • Condition worsens • Symptoms persist for more than 7 days • Symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. For external use only. Ask a doctor before use if you have: heart disease, high blood pressure, thyroid disease, diabetes, or difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland. Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug for high blood pressure or depression. When using this product : avoid contact with eyes, do not exceed recommended dosage unless directed by a doctor, do not put this product into rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator. Stop use and ask a doctor if : rectal bleeding occurs, condition worsens or does not improve within seven (7) days, allergic reaction occurs to ingredients in this product, symptom being treated does not subside or if redness, irritation, swelling, pain or other symptoms develop or increase, symptoms clear up and return within a few days. WARNINGS EXCESSIVE DOSAGE, OR SHORT INTERVALS BETWEEN DOSES, CAN RESULT IN HIGH PLASMA LEVELS AND SERIOUS ADVERSE EFFECTS. PATIENTS SHOULD BE INSTRUCTED TO STRICTLY ADHERE TO THE RECOMMENDED DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION GUIDELINES AS SET FORTH IN THIS PACKAGE INSERT. THE MANAGEMENT OF SERIOUS ADVERSE REACTIONS MAY REQUIRE THE USE OF RESUSCITATIVE EQUIPMENT, OXYGEN, AND OTHER RESUSCITATIVE DRUGS. Lidocaine should be used with extreme caution if the mucosa in the area of application has been traumatized, since under such conditions there is the potential for rapid systemic absorption. Life-threatening and fatal events in infants and young children Postmarketing cases of seizures, cardiopulmonary arrest, and death in patients under the age of 3 years have been reported with use of Lidocaine Viscous 2% when it was not administered in strict adherence to the dosing and administration recommendations. In the setting of teething pain, Lidocaine Viscous 2% should generally not be used. For other conditions, the use of the product in patients less than 3 years of age should be limited to those situations where safer alternatives are not available or have been tried but failed. Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use. Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia, patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia, cardiac or pulmonary compromise, infants under 6 months of age, and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition. If local anesthetics must be used in these patients, close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended. Signs of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure, and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and/or abnormal coloration of the blood. Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise; therefore, immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects, including seizures, coma, arrhythmias, and death. Discontinue Lidocaine Viscous 2% and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of the signs and symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care, i.e., oxygen therapy, hydration. A more severe clinical presentation may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. EXCESSIVE DOSAGE, OR SHORT INTERVALS BETWEEN DOSES, CAN RESULT IN HIGH PLASMA LEVELS AND SERIOUS ADVERSE EFFECTS, PATIENTS SHOULD BE INSTRUCTED TO STRICTLY ADHERE TO THE RECOMMENDED DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION GUIDELINES AS SET FORTH IN THIS PACKAGE INSERT. Lidocaine ointment, 5% should be used with extreme caution in the presence of sepsis or severely traumatized mucosa in the area of application, since under such conditions there is the potential for rapid systemic absorption. Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia, patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia, cardiac or pulmonary compromise, infants under 6 months of age, and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition. Discontinue lidocaine ointment, 5% and any other oxidizing agents. Warnings For external use only Do not use ■ on large areas of the body or on cut, irritated or swollen skin ■ on puncture wounds ■ for more than one week without consulting a doctor When using this product ■ use only as directed. Read and follow all directions and warnings on this label. ■ do not allow contact with the eyes and mucous membranes ■ avoid spraying on face ■ avoid inhalation of spray ■ do not bandage or apply local heat (such as heating pads) or a medicated patch to area of use ■ do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ condition worsens ■ redness is present ■ irritation develops ■ symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Extremely Flammable ■ do not use near heat or flame or while smoking ■ avoid long term storage above 104°F (40°C) ■ do not puncture or incinerate. Contents under pressure. ■ do not store at temperatures above 120°F (49°C) If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. The adhesoin properties of this patch may cause an extended period of redness. Please visit www.re-lieved.com for more information.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Lidocaine is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type, or to other components of the solution. Lidocaine is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type or to other components of lidocaine ointment, 5%.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Patients who are administered local anesthetics are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following drugs, which could include other local anesthetics: Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia: Class Examples Nitrates/Nitrites nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, nitric oxide, nitrous oxide Local anesthetics benzocaine, lidocaine, bupivacaine, mepivacaine, tetracaine, prilocaine, procaine, articaine, ropivacaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide, flutamide, rasburicase, ifosfamide, hydroxyurea Antibiotics dapsone, sulfonamides, nitrofurantoin, para-aminosalicylic acid Antimalarials chloroquine, primaquine Anticonvulsants phenytoin, sodium valproate, phenobarbital Other drugs acetaminophen, metoclopramide, sulfasalazine, quinine

=== CALCIUM CARBONATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: PURPOSE: Alfalfa – Body Aches, Cadmium Sulphuratum - Nervousness, Calcarea Carbonica – Muscle Cramps, Cuprum Metallicum - Fatigue, Ferrum Metallicum – Body Aches, Fucus Vesiculosus - Nervousness, Hypericum Perforatum – Muscle Cramps, Kali Phosphoricum – Jet Lag, Magnesia Phosphorica – Body Aches, Manganum Metallicum - Nervousness, Mercurius Vivus – Jet Lag, Plumbum Metallicum – Body Aches, Silicea - Nervousness, Symphytum Officinale – Muscle Cramps, Tarentula Hispana - Fatigue, X-Ray – Jet Lag, Ytterbium Oxide – Body Aches Purpose Antacid Temporarily relieves: common pain or itching from swimmer’s ear, clogged ears, ear pain or itching from other earaches, after diagnosis by a physician OTC - PURPOSE SECTION Formulated for symptoms associated with food and environmental allergens such as congestion, swollen glands, runny nose, cough, rashes and stomach upset. *Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. Not FDA evaluated. PURPOSE: Arsenicum Album – Stomach Support, Calcarea Carbonica - Vomiting, Carduus Marianus – Stomach Pain, Ceanothus Americanus – Spleen Support, Cinchona Officinalis – Loss of Appetite, Digitalis Purpurea – Abdominal Bloating, Ignatia Amara – Loose Stools, Kali Bichromicum – Fluid Retention, Lycopodium Clavatum – Stomach Support, Phosphorus – Spleen Support, Plumbum Metallicum - Vomiting, Pulsatilla (Pratensis) – Stomach Pain, Ranunculus Bulbosus – Loss of Appetite, Veratrum Viride – Abdominal Bloating Purpose Antacid Antacid Antigas
Indications: USES: • For the temporary relief of symptoms including: • jet lag • body aches • nervousness • muscle cramps • fatigue These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. They have not been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration. Uses relieves: • heartburn • sour stomach • acid indigestion • upset stomach associated with these symptoms Uses relieves acid indigestion heartburn sour stomach upset stomach associated with these symptoms Uses* Temporarily relieves: ■ common pain or itching from swimmer’s ear ■ clogged ears ■ ear pain or itching from other earaches, after diagnosis by a physician INDICATIONS & USAGE SECTION Formulated for symptoms associated with food and environmental allergens such as congestion, swollen glands, runny nose, cough, rashes and stomach upset. INDICATIONS Temporarily relieves fear, worry, dread, lack of courage, shame, self-reproach, anxiousness, unworthiness, or irritability.* USES: • For the temporary relief of symptoms including: • stomach support • vomiting • spleen support • stomach pain • loss of appetite • loose stools • abdominal bloating • fluid retention These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. Uses relieves: heartburn acid indigestion pressure, bloating and discomfort commonly referred to as gas USE(S) relieves: acid indigestion heartburn
Dosage: DIRECTIONS: 1-10 drops under the tongue, 3 times a day or as directed by a health professional. Consult a physician for use in children under 12 years of age. Directions • adults and children 12 years of age and over: chew 2-4 tablets as symptoms occur, or as directed by a doctor. Do not swallow tablets whole. • do not take for symptoms that persist for more than 2 weeks unless advised by a doctor Directions take one to four tablets daily. do not take more than 4 tablets in 24 hours do not use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks Directions Adults and children ages 4 years and over: ■ Tilt head sideways and apply 3-4 drops into involved ear (tip of applicator should not enter ear canal). ■ Keep head tilted for at least 2 minutes to keep drops in ear. ■ Repeat until relieved, up to 4 times per day. ■ Use as directed. ■ Do not refrigerate. ■ Shake well before using. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION Directions: Ages 12 and up take 6 drops by mouth (ages 0 to 11, give 3 drops) as needed or directed by a health professional. Sensitive persons begin with 1 drop and gradually increase to full dose. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION Directions: Ages 12 and up take 6 pellets (ages 0 to 11, give 3 pellets) as needed or directed by a health professional. Under age 2, crush/dissolve pellets in purified water. Sensitive persons begin with 1 pellet and gradually increase to full dose. DIRECTIONS Place drops under tongue 30 minutes before/after meals. Adults and children 12 years and over: Take 5 drops up to 4 times per day for up to one month. Directions chew 2-4 tablets completely as symptoms occur or as directed by a doctor. DIRECTIONS adults and children 12 years of age and over: chew 2-3 tablets as symptoms occur, or as directed by a doctor.
Warnings: WARNINGS: If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, contact a physician or Poison Control Center right away. Tamper Evident: Sealed for your protection. Do not use if seal is broken or missing. Warnings Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug. Antacids may interact with certain prescription drugs. When using this product • do not take more than 15 tablets in 24 hours • do not use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks except under the advice and supervision of a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms last more than 2 weeks. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Warnings Keep away from eyes. Do not use if you have ear tubes, damaged ear drums or after ear surgery. Stop use and ask a doctor if: ■ symptoms persist for more than 48 hours or worsen. ■ any discharge from ear is present. ■ symptoms are accompanied by a fever. If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use. WARNINGS SECTION WARNINGS: Keep out of reach of children. Do not use if tamper-evident seal is broken or missing. If symptoms worsen or persist for more than a few days, consult a doctor. If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a doctor before use. WARNINGS In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a poison control center right away. Keep out of the reach of children. If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a healthcare professional before use. WARNINGS: If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Warnings Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are now taking a prescription drug. When using this product Do not take more than 8 tablets in a 24-hour period Do not use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks Keep out of reach of children. WARNINGS .

=== BENZOCAINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose External Analgesic Purpose: Oral Anesthetic Purpose Oral Pain Reliever Purpose Oral Anesthetic Purpose: Desensitizer ​Purpose Oral Anesthetic
Indications: Uses temporarily relieves itching Use For oral mucosal use only, as directed by dentist. For the temporary relief of pain due to minor dental procedures. Uses For temporary relief of pain due to toothaches and sure gums. Use For oral mucosal use. Use only as directed by dentist. Uses: Desentisizes the Penis, and allows an erection to be maintained. ​Use For oral mucosal use only, as directed by dentist. For the temporary relief of pain due to minor dental procedures Uses Temporarily relieves pain associated with the following mouth and gum irritations: toothache sore gums canker sores braces minor dental procedures dentures Uses For the temporary relief of pain associated with canker sores and minor dental procedures.
Dosage: Directions Adults and children 12 years and older: apply a fingertip amount (approximately 1 inch strip) to the affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily. Children under 12 years: ask a doctor. Directions Apply only amount needed to the oral mucosa to prevent or relieve pain. children under 2 years of age: do not use Directions: (For adults and children 12 years or older) wash hands Remove cap and cut off tip dispenser use your finger or cotton applicator (swab) to apply a small (pea-size) amount of Anestenka to the affected area Apply Anestenka to the affected area up to 4 times daily or as directed by the demtist or doctor For children 12 years of age: Consult a dentist or doctor Directions: Apply a small amount of cream to head and shaft of penis 2-3 minutes before intercourse. Wash product off after intercourse. ​Directions Apply only amount needed to the oral mucosa to prevent or relieve pain. Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older: wipe liquid on with cotton, or cotton swab, or fingertip, apply to the affected area up to 4 times daily or as directed by a doctor/dentist children under 12 years of age: adult supervision should be given in the use of this product children under 2 years of age: do not use for denture irritation apply a thin layer to the affected area; do not reinsert dental work until irritation/pain is relieved; rinse mouth well after reinserting Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older: Apply to the affected area. Use up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor. Children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product Children under 2 years of age: Consult a dentist or doctor.
Warnings: Warnings For external use only. When using this product avoid contact with the eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens, or if symptoms persists for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days. Do not apply over large areas of the body. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings: Methemoglobinemia warning: Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia, a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in the blood. This can occur even if you have used this product before. Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops: pale, gray or blue colored skin (cyanosis) headache rapid heart rate shortness of breath dizziness or lightheadedness fatigue or lack of energy Allergy Alert : Do not use on patients with a history of allergies to local anesthetics such as procaine, butacaine, benzocaine or other "caine" anesthetics. Do not use for more than 7 days unless directed by a physician. If sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days; irritation, pain or redness persists or worsens; or if swelling, rash or fever develops, see your physician promptly. for teething in children under 2 years of age When using this product Avoid contact with eyes. If contact occurs, flush with water. Do not exceed recommended dosage. If more than used for pain is accidentally swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. If pregnant or breast feeding, ask a physician before use. methemoglobinemia warning: Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia, a seious condition that must be treated promtly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood. This can occurred even if you have used this product before. Stop used and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops: pale, gray, or blue colored skin (cyanosis) headache rapid hear rate shortness of breath dizziness or lightheadedness fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert: do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthethics such as procaine, butacaine, benzocaine, or other "caine" anesthetic. If skin reacction ocurrs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Sore throat warning: if sore throat is severe, persists for more that two days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, swelling, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. If sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days, or if irritation, pain, or redness persist or worsens, see your dentist dentist or doctor promptly. Allergy alert: do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthethics such as procaine, butacaine, benzocaine, or other "caine" anesthetic. Warnings Methemoglobinemia warning: Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia, a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in the blood. Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops: pale, gray or blue colored skin (cyanosis) headache rapid heart rate shortness of breath dizziness or lightheadedness fatigue or lack of energy Allergy Alert: Do not use on patients with a history of allergies to local anesthetics such as procaine, butacaine, benzocaine or other "caine" anesthetics. If sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days; irritation, pain, or redness persists or worsens; or if swelling, rash or fever develops, see your physician promptly. Warnings: For External use only. Do not use near eyes. Not for prolonged use. If condition for which preparation is used causes discomfort, or if a rash or irritation should develop, discontinue use and consult a physician. For prevention of premature ejaculation. ​ ​Warnings Methemoglobinemia warning: Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia, a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in the blood. Warnings METHEMOGLOBINEMIA WARNING: Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia, a rare but serious confition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood. Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops: pale, gray, or blue colored skin (cyanosis) headache rapid heart rate shortness of breath dizziness or lightheadedness fatigue or lack of energy Allergy Alert: do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine, butacaine, benzocaine or other "caine" anesthetics Do not use for teething in children under 2 years of age When using this product avoid contact with eyes do not exceed recommended dosage do not use for more than 7 days unless directed by a dentist or doctor Stop use and ask doctor if sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days irritation, pain or redness persists or worsens swelling, rash or fever develops Warnings Methemoglobinemia warning Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia, a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in the blood. Stop use and seek medical attention if you or a child in your care develops: • pale, gray, or blue colored skin (cyanosis) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Alergy alert Do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine, butacaine, benzocaine, or other "-caine" anesthetics. Do not use this product for more than 7 days unless directed by a dentist or doctor. If sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days; if irritation, pain, or redness persists or worsens; or if swelling, rash, or fever develops, see your dentist or doctor promptly.

=== GABAPENTIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Gabapentin Capsules, USP are indicated for: Management of postherpetic neuralgia in adults Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures, with and without secondary generalization, in adults and pediatric patients 3 years and older with epilepsy Gabapentin Capsules, USP are indicated for Postherpetic neuralgia in adults (1) Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures, with and without secondary generalization, in adults and pediatric patients 3 years and older with epilepsy (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Gabapentin oral solution is indicated for: Management of postherpetic neuralgia in adults Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures, with and without secondary generalization, in adults and pediatric patients 3 years and older with epilepsy Gabapentin oral solution is indicated for: Postherpetic neuralgia in adults (1) Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures, with and without secondary generalization, in adults and pediatric patients 3 years and older with epilepsy (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Gabapentin is indicated for: Management of postherpetic neuralgia in adults Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures, with and without secondary generalization, in adults and pediatric patients 3 years and older with epilepsy Gabapentin is indicated for: Postherpetic neuralgia in adults ( 1 ) Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures, with and without secondary generalization, in adults and pediatric patients 3 years and older with epilepsy ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Gabapentin is indicated for: • Management of postherpetic neuralgia in adults • Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures, with and without secondary generalization, in adults and pediatric patients 3 years and older with epilepsy Gabapentin is indicated for: • Postherpetic neuralgia in adults ( 1 ) • Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures, with and without secondary generalization, in adults and pediatric patients 3 years and older with epilepsy ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Gabapentin capsules are indicated for: • Management of postherpetic neuralgia in adults • Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures, with and without secondary generalization, in adults and pediatric patients 3 years and older with epilepsy Gabapentin capsules are indicated for: • Postherpetic neuralgia in adults ( 1 ) • Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures, with and without secondary generalization, in adults and pediatric patients 3 years and older with epilepsy ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Gabapentin is indicated for: Management of postherpetic neuralgia in adults Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures, with and without secondary generalization, in adults and pediatric patients 3 years and older with epilepsy Gabapentin is indicated for: • Postherpetic neuralgia in adults ( 1 ) • Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures, with and without secondary generalization, in adults and pediatric patients 3 years and older with epilepsy ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Gabapentin tablets are indicated for: Management of postherpetic neuralgia in adults Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures, with and without secondary generalization, in adults and pediatric patients 3 years and older with epilepsy Gabapentin tablets are indicated for: Postherpetic neuralgia in adults ( 1 ) Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures, with and without secondary generalization, in adults and pediatric patients 3 years and older with epilepsy ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Gabapentin tablets are indicated for: Management of postherpetic neuralgia in adults Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures, with and without secondary generalization, in adults and pediatric patients 3 years and older with epilepsy Gabapentin is indicated for: Postherpetic neuralgia in adults (1) Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial onset seizures, with and without secondary generalization, in adults and pediatric patients 3 years and older with epilepsy (1)
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMlNlSTRATION Postherpetic Neuralgia (2.1) Dose can be titrated up as needed to a dose of 1800 mg/day Day 1: Single 300 mg dose Day 2: 600 mg/day (i.e., 300 mg two times a day) Day 3: 900 mg/day (i.e., 300 mg three times a day) Epilepsy with Partial Onset Seizures (2.2) Patients 12 years of age and older: starting dose is 300 mg three times daily; may be titrated up to 600 mg three times daily Patients 3 to 11 years of age: starting dose range is 10 to 15 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses; recommended dose in patients 3 to 4 years of age is 40 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses; the recommended dose in patients 5 to 11 years of age is 25 to 35 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses. The recommended dose is reached by upward titration over a period of approximately 3 days Dose should be adjusted in patients with reduced renal function ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) 2.1 Dosage for Postherpetic Neuralgia In adults with postherpetic neuralgia, Gabapentin may be initiated on Day 1 as a single 300 mg dose, on Day 2 as 600 mg/day (300 mg two times a day), and on Day 3 as 900 mg/day (300 mg three times a day). The dose can subsequently be titrated up as needed for pain relief to a dose of 1800 mg/day (600 mg three times a day). In clinical studies, efficacy was demonstrated over a range of doses from 1800 mg/day to 3600 mg/day with comparable effects across the dose range; however, in these clinical studies, the additional benefit of using doses greater than 1800 mg/day was not demonstrated 2.2 Dosage for Epilepsy with Partial Onset Seizures Patients 12 years of age and above The starting dose is 300 mg three times a day. The recommended maintenance dose of Gabapentin is 300 mg to 600 mg three times a day. Dosages up to 2400 mg/day have been well tolerated in long-term clinical studies. Doses of 3600 mg/day have also been administered to a small number of patients for a relatively short duration, and have been well tolerated. Administer Gabapentin three times a day using 300 mg or 400 mg capsules. The maximum time between doses should not exceed 12 hours. Pediatric Patients Age 3 to 11 years The starting dose range is 10 mg/kg/day to 15 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses, and the recommended maintenance dose reached by upward titration over a period of approximately 3 days. The recommended maintenance dose of Gabapentin in patients 3 to 4 years of age is 40 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses. The recommended maintenance dose of Gabapentin in patients 5 to 11 years of age is 25 mg/kg/day to 35 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses. Gabapentin may be administered as the capsule formulations. Dosages up to 50 mg/kg/day have been well tolerated in a long-term clinical study. The maximum time interval between doses should not exceed 12 hours. 2.3 Dosage Adjustment in Patients with Renal Impairment Dosage adjustment in patients 12 years of age and older with renal impairment or undergoing hemodialysis is recommended, as follows (see dosing recommendations above for effective doses in each indication): TABLE 1. Gabapentin Dosage Based on Renal Function TID = Three times a day; BID = Two times a day; QD = Single daily dose Renal Function Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Total Daily Dose Range (mg/day) Dose Regimen (mg) ≥60 900 to 3600 300 TID 400 TID 600 TID 800 TID 1200 TID >30 to 59 400 to 1400 200 BID 300 BID 400 BID 500 BID 700 BID >15 to 29 200 to 700 200 QD 300 QD 400 QD 500 QD 700 QD 15 For patients with creatinine clearance <15 mL/min, reduce daily dose in proportion to creatinine clearance (e.g., patients with a creatinine clearance of 7.5 mL/min should receive one-half the daily dose that patients with a creatinine clearance of 15 mL/min receive) 100 to 300 100 QD 125 QD 150 QD 200 QD 300 QD Post-Hemodialysis Supplemental Dose (mg) Patients on hemodialysis should receive maintenance doses based on estimates of creatinine clearance as indicated in the upper portion of the table and a supplemental post-hemodialysis dose administered after each 4 hours of hemodialysis as indicated in the lower portion of the table. Hemodialysis 125 150 200 250 350 Creatinine clearance (CLCr) is diffcult to measure in outpatients. In patients with stable renal function, creatinine clearance can be reasonably well estimated using the equation of Cockcroft and Gault: The use of Gabapentin in patients less than 12 years of age with compromised renal function has not been studied. 2.4 Dosage in Elderly Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and dose should be adjusted based on creatinine clearance values in these patients. 2.5 Administration Information Administer Gabapentin orally with or without food. Gabapentin capsules should be swallowed whole with water. If the Gabapentin dose is reduced, discontinued, or substituted with an alternative medication, this should be done gradually over a minimum of 1 week (a longer period may be needed at the discretion of the prescriber). 2.1 Dosage for Postherpetic Neuralgia In adults with postherpetic neuralgia, Gabapentin may be initiated on Day 1 as a single 300 mg dose, on Day 2 as 600 mg/day (300 mg two times a day), and on Day 3 as 900 mg/day (300 mg three times a day). In clinical studies, efficacy was demonstrated over a range of doses from 1800 mg/day to 3600 mg/day with comparable effects across the dose range; however, in these clinical studies, the additional benefit of using doses greater than 1800 mg/day was not demonstrated 2.2 Dosage for Epilepsy with Partial Onset Seizures Patients 12 years of age and above The starting dose is 300 mg three times a day. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Postherpetic Neuralgia ( 2.1 ) Dose can be titrated up as needed to a dose of 1,800 mg/day Day 1: Single 300 mg dose Day 2: 600 mg/day (i.e., 300 mg two times a day) Day 3: 900 mg/day (i.e., 300 mg three times a day) Epilepsy with Partial Onset Seizures (2.2) Patients 12 years of age and older: starting dose is 300 mg three times daily; may be titrated up to 600 mg three times daily Patients 3 to 11 years of age: starting dose range is 10 to 15 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses; recommended dose in patients 3 to 4 years of age is 40 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses; the recommended dose in patients 5 to 11 years of age is 25 to 35 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses. The recommended dose is reached by upward titration over a period of approximately 3 days Dose should be adjusted in patients with reduced renal function (2.3 , 2.4) 2.1 Dosage for Postherpetic Neuralgia In adults with postherpetic neuralgia, Gabapentin may be initiated on Day 1 as a single 300 mg dose, on Day 2 as 600 mg/day (300 mg two times a day), and on Day 3 as 900 mg/day (300 mg three times a day). In clinical studies, efficacy was demonstrated over a range of doses from 1800 mg/day to 3600 mg/day with comparable effects across the dose range; however, in these clinical studies, the additional benefit of using doses greater than 1800 mg/day was not demonstrated. The recommended maintenance dose of gabapentin oral solution is 300 mg to 600 mg three times a day. Dosages up to 2,400 mg/day have been administered in long-term clinical studies. Doses of 3,600 mg/day have also been administered to a small number of patients for a relatively short duration. Administer gabapentin oral solution three times a day. Gabapentin may be administered as the oral solution, capsule, or tablet, or using combinations of these formulations. Dosages up to 50 mg/kg/day have been administered in a long-term clinical study. Gabapentin Dosage Based on Renal Function Renal Function Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Total Daily Dose Range (mg/day) Dose Regimen (mg) ≥ 60 900 to 3600 300 TID 400 TID 600 TID 800 TID 1200 TID > 30 to 59 400 to 1400 200 BID 300 BID 400 BID 500 BID 700 BID > 15 to 29 200 to 700 200 QD 300 QD 400 QD 500 QD 700 QD 15 a 100 to 300 100 QD 125 QD 150 QD 200 QD 300 QD Post-Hemodialysis Supplemental Dose (mg) b Hemodialysis 125 b 150 b 200 b 250 b 350 b TID = Three times a day; BID = Two times a day; QD = Single daily dose a For patients with creatinine clearance <15 mL/min, reduce daily dose in proportion to creatinine clearance (e.g., patients with a creatinine clearance of 7.5 mL/min should receive one-half the daily dose that patients with a creatinine clearance of 15 mL/min receive). b Patients on hemodialysis should receive maintenance doses based on estimates of creatinine clearance as indicated in the upper portion of the table and a supplemental post-hemodialysis dose administered after each 4 hours of hemodialysis as indicated in the lower portion of the table. Creatinine clearance (CLCr) is difficult to measure in outpatients. Formula 2.4 Dosage in Elderly Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and dose should be adjusted based on creatinine clearance values in these patients. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Postherpetic Neuralgia ( 2.1 ) Dose can be titrated up as needed to a dose of 1,800 mg/day Day 1: Single 300 mg dose Day 2: 600 mg/day (i.e., 300 mg two times a day) Day 3: 900 mg/day (i.e., 300 mg three times a day) Epilepsy with Partial Onset Seizures ( 2.2 ) Patients 12 years of age and older: starting dose is 300 mg three times daily; may be titrated up to 600 mg three times daily Patients 3 to 11 years of age: starting dose range is 10 to 15 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses; recommended dose in patients 3 to 4 years of age is 40 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses; the recommended dose in patients 5 to 11 years of age is 25 to 35 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses. The dose can subsequently be titrated up as needed for pain relief to a dose of 1,800 mg/day (600 mg three times a day). In clinical studies, efficacy was demonstrated over a range of doses from 1,800 mg/day to 3,600 mg/day with comparable effects across the dose range; however, in these clinical studies, the additional benefit of using doses greater than 1,800 mg/day was not demonstrated. Dosages up to 2,400 mg/day have been well tolerated in long-term clinical studies. Doses of 3,600 mg/day have also been administered to a small number of patients for a relatively short duration, and have been well tolerated. Administer gabapentin three times a day using 600 mg or 800 mg tablets. Gabapentin Dosage Based on Renal Function Renal Function Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Total Daily Dose Range (mg/day) Dosage Regimen (mg) TID = Three times a day; BID = Two times a day; QD = Single daily dose ≥ 60 900 to 3,600 300 TID 400 TID 600 TID 800 TID 1,200 TID > 30 to 59 400 to 1,400 200 BID 300 BID 400 BID 500 BID 700 BID > 15 to 29 200 to 700 200 QD 300 QD 400 QD 500 QD 700 QD 15 For patients with creatinine clearance < 15 mL/min, reduce daily dose in proportion to creatinine clearance (e.g., patients with a creatinine clearance of 7.5 mL/min should receive one-half the daily dose that patients with a creatinine clearance of 15 mL/min receive). 100 to 300 100 QD 125 QD 150 QD 200 QD 300 QD Post-Hemodialysis Supplemental Dose (mg) Patients on hemodialysis should receive maintenance doses based on estimates of creatinine clearance as indicated in the upper portion of the table and a supplemental post-hemodialysis dose administered after each 4 hours of hemodialysis as indicated in the lower portion of the table. Hemodialysis 125 150 200 250 350 Creatinine clearance (CLCr) is difficult to measure in outpatients. In patients with stable renal function, creatinine clearance can be reasonably well estimated using the equation of Cockcroft and Gault: CLCr = [140 − age (years) ] × weight (kg) ( × 0.85 for female patients) 72 × serum creatinine (mg/dL) The use of gabapentin in patients less than 12 years of age with compromised renal function has not been studied. Inform patients that, should they divide the scored 600 mg or 800 mg gabapentin tablet in order to administer a half-tablet, they should take the unused half-tablet as the next dose. Half-tablets not used within 28 days of dividing the scored tablet should be discarded. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Postherpetic Neuralgia ( 2.1 ) Dose can be titrated up as needed to a dose of 1800 mg/day Day 1: Single 300 mg dose Day 2: 600 mg/day (i.e., 300 mg two times a day) Day 3: 900 mg/day (i.e., 300 mg three times a day) Epilepsy with Partial Onset Seizures ( 2.2 ) Patients 12 years of age and older: starting dose is 300 mg three times daily; may be titrated up to 600 mg three times daily Patients 3 to 11 years of age: starting dose range is 10 to 15 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses; recommended dose in patients 3 to 4 years of age is 40 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses; the recommended dose in patients 5 to 11 years of age is 25 to 35 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses. Dosages up to 2400 mg/day have been administered in long-term clinical studies. Doses of 3600 mg/day have also been administered to a small number of patients for a relatively short duration. Gabapentin may be administered as the oral capsule. gabapentin-equation 2.4 Dosage in Elderly Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and dose should be adjusted based on creatinine clearance values in these patients. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Postherpetic Neuralgia ( 2.1 ) • Dose can be titrated up as needed to a dose of 1800 mg/day • Day 1: Single 300 mg dose • Day 2: 600 mg/day (i.e., 300 mg two times a day) • Day 3: 900 mg/day (i.e., 300 mg three times a day) • Epilepsy with Partial Onset Seizures ( 2.2 ) • Patients 12 years of age and older: starting dose is 300 mg three times daily; may be titrated up to 600 mg three times daily. • Patients 3 to 11 years of age: starting dose range is 10 to 15 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses; recommended dose in patients 3 to 4 years of age is 40 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses; the recommended dose in patients 5 to 11 years of age is 25 to 35 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses. The recommended dose is reached by upward titration over a period of approximately 3 days • Dose should be adjusted in patients with reduced renal function ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) 2.1 Dosage for Postherpetic Neuralgia In adults with postherpetic neuralgia, gabapentin may be initiated on Day 1 as a single 300 mg dose, on Day 2 as 600 mg/day (300 mg two times a day), and on Day 3 as 900 mg/day (300 mg three times a day). The recommended maintenance dose of gabapentin capsules is 300 mg to 600 mg three times a day. Administer gabapentin capsules three times a day using 300 mg or 400 mg capsules. Gabapentin Capsules Dosage Based on Renal Function Renal Function Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Total Daily Dose Range (mg/day) Dose Regimen (mg) ≥60 900 to 3600 300 TID 400 TID 600 TID 800 TID 1200 TID >30 to 59 400 to 1400 200 BID 300 BID 400 BID 500 BID 700 BID >15 to 29 200 to 700 200 QD 300 QD 400 QD 500 QD 700 QD 15* 100 to 300 100 QD 125 QD 150 QD 200 QD 300 QD Post-Hemodialysis Supplemental Dose (mg)b Hemodialysis 125 b 150 b 200 b 250 b 350 b TID = Three times a day; BID = Two times a day; QD = Single daily dose a For patients with creatinine clearance <15 mL/min, reduce daily dose in proportion to creatinine clearance (e.g., patients with a creatinine clearance of 7.5 mL/min should receive one-half the daily dose that patients with a creatinine clearance of 15 mL/min receive). b Patients on hemodialysis should receive maintenance doses based on estimates of creatinine clearance as indicated in the upper portion of the table and a supplemental post-hemodialysis dose administered after each 4 hours of hemodialysis as indicated in the lower portion of the table.. cockcroft-gault-equation.jpg 2.4 Dosage in Elderly Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and dose should be adjusted based on creatinine clearance values in these patients. 2.5 Administration Information Administer gabapentin capsules orally with or without food. If the gabapentin capsules dose is reduced, discontinued, or substituted with an alternative medication, this should be done gradually over a minimum of 1 week (a longer period may be needed at the discretion of the prescriber). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Postherpetic Neuralgia ( 2.1 ) o Dose can be titrated up as needed to a dose of 1,800 mg/day o Day 1: Single 300 mg dose o Day 2: 600 mg/day (i.e., 300 mg two times a day) o Day 3: 900 mg/day (i.e., 300 mg three times a day) • Epilepsy with Partial Onset Seizures ( 2.2 ) o Patients 12 years of age and older: starting dose is 300 mg three times daily; may be titrated up to 600 mg three times daily o Patients 3 to 11 years of age: starting dose range is 10 to 15 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses; recommended dose in patients 3 to 4 years of age is 40 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses; the recommended dose in patients 5 to 11 years of age is 25 to 35 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses. Administer gabapentin three times a day using 300 mg or 400 mg capsules, or 600 mg or 800 mg tablets. Gabapentin Dosage Based on Renal Function TID = Three times a day; BID = Two times a day; QD = Single daily dose a For patients with creatinine clearance <15 mL/min, reduce daily dose in proportion to creatinine clearance (e.g., patients with a creatinine clearance of 7.5 mL/min should receive one-half the daily dose that patients with a creatinine clearance of 15 mL/min receive). Renal Function Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Total Daily Dose Range (mg/day) Dose Regimen (mg) ≥ 60 900 to 3,600 300 TID 400 TID 600 TID 800 TID 1,200 TID > 30 to 59 400 to 1,400 200 BID 300 BID 400 BID 500 BID 700 BID > 15 to 29 200 to 700 200 QD 300 QD 400 QD 500 QD 700 QD 15 a 100 to 300 100 QD 125 QD 150 QD 200 QD 300 QD Post-Hemodialysis Supplemental Dose (mg) b Hemodialysis 125 b 150 b 200 b 250 b 350 b Creatinine clearance (CLCr) is difficult to measure in outpatients. In patients with stable renal function, creatinine clearance can be reasonably well estimated using the equation of Cockcroft and Gault: [140 – age (years)] x weight (kg) CLCr = ______________________________ (x 0.85 for female patients) 72 x serum creatinine (mg/dL) The use of gabapentin in patients less than 12 years of age with compromised renal function has not been studied. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Postherpetic Neuralgia ( 2.1 ) Dose can be titrated up as needed to a dose of 1800 mg/day Day 1: Single 300 mg dose Day 2: 600 mg/day (i.e., 300 mg two times a day ) Day 3: 900 mg/day (i.e., 300 mg three times a day ) Epilepsy with Partial Onset Seizures ( 2.2 ) Patients 12 years of age and older: starting dose is 300 mg three times daily; may be titrated up to 600 mg three times daily Patients 3 to 11 years of age: starting dose range is 10 to 15 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses; recommended dose in patients 3 to 4 years of age is 40 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses; the recommended dose in patients 5 to 11 years of age is 25 to 35 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses. Gabapentin may be administered as tablet formulations. Figure 1 2.4 Dosage in Elderly Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and dose should be adjusted based on creatinine clearance values in these patients. 2.5 Administration Information Administer gabapentin tablets orally with or without food. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Postherpetic Neuralgia (2.1) Dose can be titrated up as needed to a dose of 1800 mg/day Day 1: Single 300 mg dose Day 2: 600 mg/day (i.e., 300 mg two times a day) Day 3: 900 mg/day (i.e., 300 mg three times a day) Epilepsy with Partial Onset Seizures (2.2) Patients 12 years of age and older: starting dose is 300 mg three times daily; may be titrated up to 600 mg three times daily Patients 3 to 11 years of age: starting dose range is 10 to 15 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses; recommended dose in patients 3 to 4 years of age is 40 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses; the recommended dose in patients 5 to 11 years of age is 25 to 35 mg/kg/day, given in three divided doses. The recommended dose is reached by upward titration over a period of approximately 3 days Dose should be adjusted in patients with reduced renal function (2.3, 2.4) 2.1 Dosage for Postherpetic Neuralgia In adults with postherpetic neuralgia, gabapentin may be initiated on Day 1 as a single 300 mg dose, on Day 2 as 600 mg/day (300 mg two times a day), and on Day 3 as 900 mg/day (300 mg three times a day). The recommended maintenance dose of gabapentin tablets is 300 mg to 600 mg three times a day. 2.3 Dosage Adjustment in Patients with Renal Impairment Dosage adjustment in patients 12 years of age and older with renal impairment or undergoing hemodialysis is recommended, as follows (see dosing recommendations above for effective doses in each indication): Creatinine clearance (CLCr) is difficult to measure in outpatients. Table-1 clcr 2.4 Dosage in Elderly Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and dose should be adjusted based on creatinine clearance values in these patients.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Gabapentin is contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the drug or its ingredients. Known hypersensitivity to gabapentin or its ingredients (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Gabapentin Oral Solution is contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the drug or its ingredients. Known hypersensitivity to gabapentin or its ingredients ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to gabapentin or its ingredients 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Gabapentin capsules are contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the drug or its ingredients. • Known hypersensitivity to gabapentin or its ingredients ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Gabapentin tablets are contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the drug or its ingredients.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concentrations increased by morphine; may need dose adjustment (5.4, 7.1 ) 7.1 Opioids Respiratory depression and sedation, sometimes resulting in death, have been reported following coadministration of gabapentin with opioids (e.g., morphine, hydrocodone, oxycodone, buprenorphine) [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Hydrocodone Coadministration of gabapentin with hydrocodone decreases hydrocodone exposure [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. The potential for alteration in hydrocodone exposure and effect should be considered when gabapentin is started or discontinued in a patient taking hydrocodone. Morphine When gabapentin is administered with morphine, patients should be observed for signs of CNS depression, such as somnolence, sedation and respiratory depression [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 Other Antiepileptic Drugs Gabapentin is not appreciably metabolized nor does it interfere with the metabolism of commonly coadministered antiepileptic drugs [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.3 Maalox ® (aluminum hydroxide, magnesium hydroxide) The mean bioavailability of gabapentin was reduced by about 20% with concomitant use of an antacid (Maalox ® ) containing magnesium and aluminum hydroxides. It is recommended that gabapentin be taken at least 2 hours following Maalox administration [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7.4 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Because false positive readings were reported with the Ames N-Multistix SG ® dipstick test for urinary protein when gabapentin was added to other antiepileptic drugs, the more specific sulfosalicylic acid precipitation procedure is recommended to determine the presence of urine protein. 7.1 Opioids Respiratory depression and sedation, sometimes resulting in death, have been reported following coadministration of gabapentin with opioids (e.g., morphine, hydrocodone, oxycodone, buprenorphine) [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Drug Interactions In Vitro Studies In vitro studies were conducted to investigate the potential of gabapentin to inhibit the major cytochrome P450 enzymes (CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, and CYP3A4) that mediate drug and xenobiotic metabolism using isoform selective marker substrates and human liver microsomal preparations. Only at the highest concentration tested (171 mcg/mL; 1 mM) was a slight degree of inhibition (14% to 30%) of isoform CYP2A6 observed. No inhibition of any of the other isoforms tested was observed at gabapentin concentrations up to 171 mcg/mL (approximately 15 times the C max at 3600 mg/day). In Vivo Studies The drug interaction data described in this section were obtained from studies involving healthy adults and adult patients with epilepsy. Phenytoin In a single (400 mg) and multiple dose (400 mg three times a day) study of Gabapentin in epileptic patients (N=8) maintained on phenytoin monotherapy for at least 2 months, gabapentin had no effect on the steady-state trough plasma concentrations of phenytoin and phenytoin had no effect on gabapentin pharmacokinetics. Carbamazepine Steady-state trough plasma carbamazepine and carbamazepine 10, 11 epoxide concentrations were not affected by concomitant gabapentin (400 mg three times a day; N=12) administration. Likewise, gabapentin pharmacokinetics were unaltered by carbamazepine administration. Valproic Acid The mean steady-state trough serum valproic acid concentrations prior to and during concomitant gabapentin administration (400 mg three times a day; N=17) were not different and neither were gabapentin pharmacokinetic parameters affected by valproic acid. Phenobarbital Estimates of steady-state pharmacokinetic parameters for phenobarbital or gabapentin (300 mg three times a day; N=12) are identical whether the drugs are administered alone or together. Naproxen Coadministration (N=18) of naproxen sodium capsules (250 mg) with Gabapentin (125 mg) appears to increase the amount of gabapentin absorbed by 12% to 15%. Gabapentin had no effect on naproxen pharmacokinetic parameters. These doses are lower than the therapeutic doses for both drugs. The magnitude of interaction within the recommended dose ranges of either drug is not known. Hydrocodone Coadministration of Gabapentin (125 to 500 mg; N=48) decreases hydrocodone (10 mg; N=50) C max and AUC values in a dose-dependent manner relative to administration of hydrocodone alone; C max and AUC values are 3% to 4% lower, respectively, after administration of 125 mg Gabapentin and 21% to 22% lower, respectively, after administration of 500 mg Gabapentin. The mechanism for this interaction is unknown. Hydrocodone increases gabapentin AUC values by 14%. The magnitude of interaction at other doses is not known. Morphine A literature article reported that when a 60 mg controlled-release morphine capsule was administered 2 hours prior to a 600 mg Gabapentin capsule (N=12), mean gabapentin AUC increased by 44% compared to gabapentin administered without morphine. Morphine pharmacokinetic parameter values were not affected by administration of Gabapentin 2 hours after morphine. Cimetidine In the presence of cimetidine at 300 mg four times a day (N=12), the mean apparent oral clearance of gabapentin fell by 14% and creatinine clearance fell by 10%. Thus, cimetidine appeared to alter the renal excretion of both gabapentin and creatinine, an endogenous marker of renal function. This small decrease in excretion of gabapentin by cimetidine is not expected to be of clinical importance. The effect of gabapentin on cimetidine was not evaluated. Oral Contraceptive Based on AUC and half-life, multiple-dose pharmacokinetic profiles of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol following administration of tablets containing 2.5 mg of norethindrone acetate and 50 mcg of ethinyl estradiol were similar with and without coadministration of gabapentin (400 mg three times a day; N=13). The C max of norethindrone was 13% higher when it was coadministered with gabapentin; this interaction is not expected to be of clinical importance. Antacid (Maalox ® ) (aluminum hydroxide, magnesium hydroxide) Antacid (Maalox ® ) containing magnesium and aluminum hydroxides reduced the mean bioavailability of gabapentin (N=16) by about 20%. This decrease in bioavailability was about 10% when gabapentin was administered 2 hours after Maalox. Probenecid Probenecid is a blocker of renal tubular secretion. Gabapentin pharmacokinetic parameters without and with probenecid were comparable. This indicates that gabapentin does not undergo renal tubular secretion by the pathway that is blocked by probenecid. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concentrations increased by morphine; may need dose adjustment ( 5.4 , 7.1 ) 7.1 Opioids Respiratory depression and sedation, sometimes resulting in death, have been reported following co-administration of gabapentin with opioids (e.g., morphine, hydrocodone, oxycodone, buprenorphine) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . Hydrocodone Coadministration of Gabapentin with hydrocodone decreases hydrocodone exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Morphine When Gabapentin is administered with morphine, patients should be observed for signs of central nervous system (CNS) depression, such as somnolence, sedation and respiratory depression [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 Other Antiepileptic Drugs Gabapentin is not appreciably metabolized nor does it interfere with the metabolism of commonly co-administered antiepileptic drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . It is recommended that Gabapentin be taken at least 2 hours following Maalox administration [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concentrations increased by morphine; may need dose adjustment ( 5.4 , 7.1 ) 7.1 Opioids Respiratory depression and sedation, sometimes resulting in death, have been reported following coadministration of gabapentin with opioids (e.g., morphine, hydrocodone, oxycodone, buprenorphine) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . Hydrocodone Coadministration of gabapentin with hydrocodone decreases hydrocodone exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Morphine When gabapentin is administered with morphine, patients should be observed for signs of CNS depression, such as somnolence, sedation and respiratory depression [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.2 Other Antiepileptic Drugs Gabapentin is not appreciably metabolized nor does it interfere with the metabolism of commonly coadministered antiepileptic drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concentrations increased by morphine; may need dose adjustment ( 5.4 , 7.1 ) 7.1 Opioids Respiratory depression and sedation, sometimes resulting in death, have been reported following coadministration of gabapentin with opioids (e.g., morphine, hydrocodone, oxycodone, buprenorphine) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Hydrocodone Coadministration of gabapentin with hydrocodone decreases hydrocodone exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Morphine When gabapentin is administered with morphine, patients should be observed for signs of CNS depression, such as somnolence, sedation and respiratory depression [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7.2 Other Antiepileptic Drugs Gabapentin is not appreciably metabolized nor does it interfere with the metabolism of commonly coadministered antiepileptic drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7.3 Maalox® (aluminum hydroxide, magnesium hydroxide) The mean bioavailability of gabapentin was reduced by about 20% with concomitant use of an antacid (Maalox ® ) containing magnesium and aluminum hydroxides. It is recommended that gabapentin be taken at least 2 hours following Maalox administration [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3 )] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Concentrations increased by morphine; may need dose adjustment ( 5.4 , 7.2 ) 7.1 Other Antiepileptic Drugs Gabapentin is not appreciably metabolized, nor does it interfere with the metabolism of commonly coadministered antiepileptic drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 Opioids Hydrocodone Coadministration of gabapentin with hydrocodone decreases hydrocodone exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.3 Maalox ® (aluminum hydroxide, magnesium hydroxide) The mean bioavailability of gabapentin was reduced by about 20% with concomitant use of an antacid (Maalox®) containing magnesium and aluminum hydroxides. It is recommended that gabapentin be taken at least 2 hours following Maalox administration [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.4 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Because false positive readings were reported with the Ames N-Multistix SG® dipstick test for urinary protein when gabapentin was added to other antiepileptic drugs, the more specific sulfosalicylic acid precipitation procedure is recommended to determine the presence of urine protein. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concentrations increased by morphine; may need dose adjustment (5.4, 7.1) 7.1 Opioids Respiratory depression and sedation, sometimes resulting in death, have been reported following coadministration of gabapentin with opioids (e.g., morphine, hydrocodone, oxycodone, buprenorphine) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concentrations increased by morphine; may need dose adjustment ( 5.4 , 7.1 ) 7.1 Opioids Respiratory depression and sedation, sometimes resulting in death, have been reported following coadministration of gabapentin with opioids (e.g., morphine, hydrocodone, oxycodone, buprenorphine) [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . 7.1 Opioids Respiratory depression and sedation, sometimes resulting in death, have been reported following coadministration of gabapentin with opioids (e.g., morphine, hydrocodone, oxycodone, buprenorphine) [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concentrations increased by morphine; may need dose adjustment (5.4, 7.1) 7.1 Opioids Respiratory depression and sedation, sometimes resulting in death, have been reported following coadministration of gabapentin with opioids (e.g., morphine, hydrocodone, oxycodone, buprenorphine) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] .

=== ASPIRIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Pain reliever Active ingredient (in each tablet) Purpose Aspirin 325 mg (NSAID*) ............................. *nonsteroidal anti-inﬂammatory drug Pain reliever Purpose Pain reliever Pain reliever Pain reliever aid Purpose (in each effervescent tablet) Buffered aspirin 325 mg (NSAID)* . . Pain reliever/fever reducer *Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug Purpose ​Purposes Pain reliever Pain reliever Pain reliever aid Purpose Pain reliever/fever reducer
Indications: Uses for the temporary relief of minor aches and pains or as recommended by your doctor. Because of its delayed action, this product will not provide fast relief of headaches or other symptoms needing immediate relief. ask your doctor about other uses for safety coated 81 mg aspirin Uses Temporary relief of minor aches and pains due to: a cold headache backache muscular aches toothache minor pains from arthritis Uses Temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: headache minor arthritis pain a cold backaches toothache muscular aches menstrual cramps Uses ■ for the temporary relief of minor aches and pains due to: ■ headache ■ muscle pain ■ backache ■ toothache ■ menstrual pain ■ colds ■ minor arthritis pain ■ temporarily reduces fever Uses for the temporary relief of minor aches and pains due to: headache muscle pain toothache menstrual pain colds minor pain of arthritis or as recommended by your doctor Use(s) for the temporary relief of minor aches and pain or as recommended by your doctor. Uses Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: headache a cold arthritis muscular aches toothache premenstrual & menstrual cramps Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: headache muscular aches minor arthritis pain backache the common cold toothache premenstrual and menstrual cramps temporarily reduces fever ask your doctor about other uses for this product
Dosage: Directions drink a full glass of water with each dose adults and children 12 years and over: take 4 to 8 tablets every 4 hours not to exceed 48 tablets in 24 hours unless directed by a doctor children under 12 years: consult a doctor Directions ■adults and children 12 years of age and older: ■ drink a full glass of water with each dose ■ take one (1) or two (2) tablets every 4 hours, while symptoms persist ■ do not take more than 12 tablets in 24 hours, unless directed by a doctor ■children under 12 years of age: consult a doctor Directions drink a full glass of water with each dose adults and children 12 years and over: take 4 to 8 tablets every 4 hours not to exceed 48 tablets in 24 hours unless directed by a doctor children under 12 years: do not use unless directed by a doctor Directions do not take more than directed (see overdose warning) adults and children 12 years and over : open 1 pack, place powder on tongue every 6 hours, while symptoms persist. Drink a full glass of water with each dose or may stir powder into a glass of water or other liquid. do not take more than 4 packs in 24 hours unless directed by a doctor. children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor. Directions ■ do not exceed recommended dosage ■ to avoid serious injury, completely dissolve tablets in 4 oz. of water before taking adults and children 12 years and over: 2 tablets every 4 hours, or as directed by a doctor - do not exceed 8 tablets in 24 hours 60 years and over: 2 tablets every 4 hours, or as directed by a doctor - do not exceed 4 tablets in 24 hours children under 12 years: consult a doctor Take this product any time – morning, noon or night – when you need relief from headaches, backaches, body aches or muscle pain. Place two (2) tablets in 4 oz. of water. Dissolve tablets completely. You do not have to drink any of the residue that may be on the bottom of the glass. The medicines are in the water. Directions drink a full glass of water with each dose adults and children 12 years and over: take 1 to 2 tablets every 4 hours; do not exceed 12 tablets in 24 hours children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions drink a full glass of water with each dose adults and children 12 years and over : take 4 to 8 tablets every 4 hours not to exceed 48 tablets in 24 hours unless directed by a doctor children under 12 years: consult a doctor Directions Directions do not use more than directed drink a full glass of water with each dose adults and children (12 years and over) take 2 caplets every 6 hours as needed; not more than 8 caplets in 24 hours children under 12 years ask a doctor Directions do not use more than directed (see overdose warning) ​ Adults and children: (12 years and over) take 2 tablets every 4 to 6 hours while symptoms last. do not take more than 10 tablets in 24 hours, unless directed by a doctor do not use for more than 10 days unless directed by a doctor Children under 12 years: ask a doctor Other information store at room temperature 59°-86°F (15°-30°C) tamper-evident sealed packets do not use any opened or torn packets
Warnings: Warnings Reye's syndrome : Children and teenagers who have or are recovering from chicken pox or flu-like symptoms should not use this product. When using this product, if changes in behavior with nausea and vomiting occur, consult a doctor because these symptoms could be an early sign of Reye's syndrome, a rare but serious illness. Allergy alert : Aspirin may cause a severe allergic reaction, which may include: hives facial swelling shock asthma (wheezing) Stomach bleeding warning: This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you: are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs [aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others] have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product take more or for a longer time than directed Do not use if you are allergic to aspirin or any other pain reliever/fever reducer. if you have ever had an allergic reaction to his product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if stomach bleeding warning applies to you you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, or kidney disease you are taking a diuretic you have asthma Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug for gout diabetes arthritis Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction occurs. Seek medical help right away. you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: feel faint vomit blood have bloody or black stool have stomach pain that does not get better pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days redness or swelling is present ringing in the ears or loss of hearing occurs new symptoms occur These could be signs of a serious condition If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. It is especially important not to use aspirin during the last 3 months of pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings Reye's syndrome: Children and teenagers who have or are recovering from chicken pox or flu-like symptoms should not use this product. Allergy alert: Aspirin may cause severe allergic reactions which may include: ■ hives ■ facial swelling ■ shock ■ asthma (wheezing) Stomach bleeding warning: This product contains an NSAID , which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you: ■ are age 60 or older ■ have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems ■ take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug ■ take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuproben, naproxen, or others) ■ have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product ■ take more or for a longer time than directed Do not use ■ if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever/fever reducer Ask a doctor before use if ■ you have asthma ■ stomach bleeding warning applies to you ■ you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn ■ you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, or kidney disease ■ you take a diuretic Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are ■ taking a prescription drug for diabetes, gout, or arthritis Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ an allergic reaction occurs. ■ you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: ■ feel faint ■ vomit blood ■ have bloody or black stools ■ have stomach pain that does not get better ■ ringing in the ears or a loss of hearing occurs ■pain gets worse or last for more than 10 days ■ fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days ■ redness or swelling is present ■ any new symptoms appear If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of an overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Allergy alert: Aspirin may cause a severe allergic reaction, which may include: hives facial swelling shock asthma (wheezing) Stomach bleeding warning: This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you take more or for a longer time than directed take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs [aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others] have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug are age 60 or older have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Do not use if you are allergic to aspirin or any other pain reliever/fever reducer if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have asthma stomach bleeding warning applies to you you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn you are taking a diuretic you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis or kidney disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug for gout diabetes arthritis Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction occurs. you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: vomit blood have bloody or black stools feel faint have stomach pain that does not get better ringing in the ears or a loss of hearing occurs pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur These could be signs of a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Warnings Reye’s syndrome: Children and teenagers who have or are recovering from chicken pox or flu-like symptoms should not use this product. When using this product, if changes in behavior with nausea and vomiting occur, consult a doctor because these symptoms could be an early sign of Reye’s syndrome, a rare but serious illness. Allergy alert: Aspirin may cause severe allergic reaction which may include: hives facial swelling asthma (wheezing) shock. Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash. If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Liver warning: This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 4 packs in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Stomach bleeding warning: This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug take other drugs containing prescription or non-prescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product take more or for a longer time than directed Caffeine warning: This product contains caffeine. Limit the use of caffeine-containing medications, foods, or beverages while taking this product because too much caffeine may cause nervousness, irritability, sleeplessness, and, occasionally, rapid heartbeat. Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to aspirin or any other pain reliever/fever reducer with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen, ask a doctor or pharmacist. Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease stomach bleeding warning applies to you you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, or kidney disease you are taking a diuretic you have asthma Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug for diabetes, gout, or arthritis Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction occurs. you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: feel faint vomit blood have bloody or black stools have stomach pain that does not get better pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present any new symptoms appear ringing in the ears or a loss of hearing occurs These could be signs of a serious condition. It is especially important not to use aspirin at 20 weeks or later in pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery. Overdose warning: Taking more than the recommended dose can cause serious health problems. Prompt medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. Allergy alert: Aspirin may cause a severe allergic reaction which may include: ■ hives ■ facial swelling ■ asthma (wheezing) ■ shock Stomach bleeding warning: This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you ■ are age 60 or older ■ have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems ■ take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug ■ take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) ■ have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product ■ take more or for a longer time than directed Warnings Reye's syndrome Children and teenagers who have or are recovering from chicken pox or flu-like symptoms should not use this product. Allergy alert Aspirin may cause a severe allergic reaction which may include: hives facial swelling shock asthma (wheezing) Stomach bleeding warning This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you: are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) have 3 more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product take more or for a longer time than directed Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever/fever reducer Ask a doctor before use if stomach bleeding warning applies to you you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, or kidney disease you are taking a diuretic you have asthma Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug for: diabetes gout arthritis Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction occurs. you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: feel faint vomit blood have bloody or black stools have stomach pain that does not get better pain gets worse or lasts for more than 10 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur ringing in the ears or loss of hearing occurs These could be signs of a serious condition If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Allergy alert : Aspirin may cause a severe allergic reaction which may include: hives facial swelling asthma (wheezing) shock Stomach bleeding warning: This product contains an NSAID which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you: are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug take other drugs containing prescription or non prescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product take more or for a longer time than directed Do not use if you are allergic to aspirin or any other pain reliever/fever reducer if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if stomach bleeding warning applies to you you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, or kidney disease you are taking a diuretic you have asthma Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if taking a prescription drug for anticoagulation (thinning the blood) diabetes gout arthritis Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction occurs. you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: feel faint vomit blood have bloody or black stools have stomach pain that does not get better pain gets worse or lasts more than10 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur ringing in the ears or loss of hearing occurs You may report side effects to 1-888-952-0050 Pregnancy/Breastfeeding If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. It is especially important not to use aspirin during the last 3 months of pregnancy unless specifically directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery. Keep out of reach of children In case of accidental overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings ​Warnings Reye’s syndrome Reye’s syndrome: Children and teenagers who have or are recovering from chicken pox or flu-like symptoms should not use this product. Allergy alert: Acetaminophen Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Allergy alert: Aspirin Allergy alert: Aspirin (NSAIDs) may cause a severe allergic reaction which may include: hives facial swelling asthma (wheezing) shock Liver warning Liver warning: This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take: more than 8 caplets in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product. Stomach bleeding warning Stomach bleeding warning: This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you: are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product take more or for a longer time than directed Caffeine warning Caffeine warning: The recommended dose of this product contains about as much caffeine as a cup of coffee. Do not use Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to acetaminophen, aspirin or any other pain reliever/fever reducer with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). Ask a doctor before use if Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease stomach bleeding warning applies to you you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, or kidney disease you are taking a diuretic you have asthma Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug for diabetes, gout, or arthritis any other drug, or are under a doctor’s care for any serious condition Stop use and ask a doctor if Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction occurs. you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: feel faint vomit blood have bloody or black stools have stomach pain that does not get better ringing in the ears or loss of hearing occurs painful area is red or swollen pain gets worse or lasts for more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts for more than 3 days any new symptoms appear These could be signs of a serious condition If pregnant or breast-feeding If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children. Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. Warnings Liver warning: This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take: more than 4,000 mg in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Do not use with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). if you are allergic to acetaminophen or any of the inactive ingredients in this product Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin Stop using and ask a doctor if pain gets worse and lasts for more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts for more than 3 days new symptoms occur redness or swelling is present These could be signs of a serious condition If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Overdose Warning: In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Allergy alert Aspirin may cause a severe allergic reaction which may include: hives facial swelling asthma (wheezing) shock Stomach bleeding warning This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you: are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product take more or for a longer time than directed Do not use if you are allergic to aspirin or any other pain reliever/fever reducer Ask a doctor before use if stomach bleeding warning applies to you you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, or kidney disease you are taking a diuretic you have asthma Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug for: diabetes gout arthritis Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction occurs. you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: feel faint vomit blood have bloody or black stools have stomach pain that does not get better pain gets worse or lasts for more than 10 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur ringing in the ears or loss of hearing occurs These could be signs of a serious condition.

=== HYDROCORTISONE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Anti-itch Purpose Antipruritic (Anti-Itch) Anti-itch
Indications: Uses • temporarily relieves itching associated with minor skin irritations, inflammation, and rashes due to: • eczema • psoriasis • poison ivy, oak, sumac • insect bites • detergents • jewelry • cosmetics • soaps • seborrheic dermatitis • temporarily relieves external anal and genital itching • other uses of this product should only be under the advice and supervision of a doctor Use(s) For the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations, inflammation, and rashes due to eczema, insect bites, poison ivy, poison oak, poison sumac, soaps, detergents, cosmetics, jewelry, seborrheic dermatitis, psoriasis, and external genital, feminine, and anal itching INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cortifoam ® is indicated as adjunctive therapy in the topical treatment of ulcerative proctitis of the distal portion of the rectum in patients who cannot retain hydrocortisone or other corticosteroid enemas. Uses temporarily relieves itching associated with minor skin irritations, inflammation, and rashes due to: eczema psoriasis poison ivy, oak, sumac insect bites detergents jewelry cosmetics soaps seborrheic dermatitis temporarily relieves external anal and genital itching other uses of this product should only be under the advice and supervision of a doctor Uses ■ for the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations, inflammation, and rashes due to: ■ eczema ■ psoriasis ■ poison ivy, oak, sumac ■ insect bites ■ detergents ■ jewelry ■ cosmetics ■ soaps ■ seborrheic dermatitis ■ other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor INDICATIONS AND USAGE Topical corticosteroids are indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. For the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritation and rashes due to eczema poison ivy, oak, and sumac cosmetics soaps and detergents jewelry insect bites Other uses of this product should be only under advice and supervision of a doctor. Uses temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations inflammation rashes due to eczema Other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor.
Dosage: Directions • for itching of skin irritation, inflammation, and rashes: • adults and children 2 years of age and older: apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age: do not use, ask a doctor • for external anal and genital itching, adults: • when practical, clean the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before applying • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 12 years of age: ask a doctor Directions • Adults and children 2 years of age and older: Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily. • Children under 2 years of age: Consult a doctor. • When used for anal itching, cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly. Gently dry, patting or blotting with bathroom tissue or soft cloth before applying. Children under 12: Consult a doctor before using for anal itching. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual dose is one applicatorful once or twice daily for two or three weeks, and every second day thereafter, administered rectally. Directions for use, below and on the carton, describe how to use the aerosol container and applicator. Satisfactory response usually occurs within five to seven days marked by a decrease in symptoms. Symptomatic improvement in ulcerative proctitis should not be used as the sole criterion for evaluating efficacy. Sigmoidoscopy is also recommended to judge dosage adjustment, duration of therapy, and rate of improvement. It Should Be Emphasized that Dosage Requirements are Variable and Must Be Individualized on the Basis of the Disease Under Treatment and the Response of the Patient. After a favorable response is noted, the proper maintenance dosage should be determined by decreasing the initial drug dosage in small decrements at appropriate time intervals until the lowest dosage which will maintain an adequate clinical response is reached. Situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process, the patient's individual drug responsiveness, and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease entity under treatment. In this latter situation it may be necessary to increase the dosage of the corticosteroid for a period of time consistent with the patient's condition. If after long-term therapy the drug is to be stopped, it is recommended that it be withdrawn gradually rather than abruptly. Directions For Use (1) Shake foam container vigorously for 5-10 seconds before each use. Do not remove container cap during use of the product. (2) Hold container upright on a level surface and gently place the tip of the applicator onto the nose of the container cap. CONTAINER MUST BE HELD UPRIGHT TO OBTAIN PROPER FLOW OF MEDICATION. (3) Pull plunger past the fill line on the applicator barrel. (4) To fill applicator barrel, press down firmly on cap flanges, hold for 1 – 2 seconds and release. Pause 5 – 10 seconds to allow foam to expand in applicator barrel. Repeat until foam reaches fill line. Remove applicator from container cap. Allow some foam to remain on the applicator tip. A burst of air may come out of container with first pump. (5) Hold applicator firmly by barrel, making sure thumb and middle finger are positioned securely underneath and resting against barrel wings. Place index finger over the plunger. Gently insert tip into anus. Once in place, push plunger to expel foam, then withdraw applicator. CAUTION: Do not insert any part of the aerosol container directly into the anus. Apply to anus only with enclosed applicator. (6) After each use, applicator parts should be pulled apart for thorough cleaning with warm water. The container cap and underlying tip should also be pulled apart and rinsed to help prevent build-up of foam and possible blockage. Directions for itching of skin irritation, inflammation, and rashes: adults and children 2 years of age and over: apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 2 years of age: consult a physician for external anal and genital itching, adults and children 12 years of age and over: when practical, clean the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before applying apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 12 years of age: consult a physician D irections ■ adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area. Do not use more than 3 to 4 times daily. ■ children under 2 years of age: do not use, ask a doctor. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply to the affected area as a thin film from two to four times daily depending on the severity of the condition. Occlusive dressings may be used for the management of psoriasis or recalcitrant conditions. If an infection develops, the use of occlusive dressings should be discontinued and appropriate antimicrobial therapy instituted. Adults and children 2 years or older: apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily Children under 2 years of age: ask a doctor To apply to face, spray into palm of hand and gently apply. Directions adults and children 2 years of age and older apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 2 years of age do not use, consult a doctor DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply to the affected area as a thin film 2 to 4 times daily depending on the severity of the condition.
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Do not use • in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge. Consult a doctor. • for the treatment of diaper rash. When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor • do not put directly into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days, and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor • rectal bleeding occurs Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Warnings For External Use Only If pregnant or breast-feeding Ask a health professional before use Do not use • In the eyes • For diaper rash • For external genital or feminine itching if you have a vaginal discharge • More than the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor • In the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • Condition worsens or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days (do not continue to use this or any other hydrocortisone product for longer than 7 days) • Bleeding occurs due to anal itching Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. WARNINGS General Do not insert any part of the aerosol container directly into the anus. Contents of the container are under pressure. Do not burn or puncture the aerosol container. Do not store at temperatures above 120°F. Because Cortifoam ® is not expelled, systemic hydrocortisone absorption may be greater from Cortifoam ® than from corticosteroid enema formulations. If there is not evidence of clinical or proctologic improvement within two or three weeks after starting Cortifoam ® therapy, or if the patient's condition worsens, discontinue the drug. Rare instances of anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Cardio-renal Corticosteroids can cause elevation of blood pressure, salt and water retention, and increased excretion of potassium. These effects are less likely to occur with the synthetic derivatives except when used in large doses. Dietary salt restriction and potassium supplementation may be necessary. All corticosteroids increase calcium excretion. Literature reports suggest an apparent association between use of corticosteroids and left ventricular free wall rupture after a recent myocardial infarction; therefore, therapy with corticosteroids should be used with great caution in these patients. Endocrine Corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamicpituitary adrenal (HPA) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment. Metabolic clearance of corticosteroids is decreased in hypothyroid patients and increased in hyperthyroid patients. Changes in thyroid status of the patient may necessitate adjustment in dosage. Infections General Patients who are on corticosteroids are more susceptible to infections than are healthy individuals. There may be decreased resistance and inability to localize infection when corticosteroids are used. Infection with any pathogen (viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan or helminthic) in any location of the body may be associated with the use of corticosteroids alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents. These infections may be mild to severe. With increasing doses of corticosteroids, the rate of occurrence of infectious complications increases. Corticosteroids may also mask some signs of current infection. Fungal infections Corticosteroids may exacerbate systemic fungal infections and therefore should not be used in the presence of such infections unless they are needed to control drug reactions. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions, Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents ). Special pathogens Latent disease may be activated or there may be an exacerbation of intercurrent infections due to pathogens, including those caused by Amoeba, Candida, Cryptococcus, Mycobacterium, Nocardia, Pneumocystis, and Toxoplasma. It is recommended that latent amebiasis or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating corticosteroid therapy in any patient who has spent time in the tropics or in any patient with unexplained diarrhea. Similarly, corticosteroids should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides (thread worm) infestation. In such patients, corticosteroid-induced immunosuppression may lead to Strongyloides hyperinfection and dissemination with widespread larval migration, often accompanied by severe enterocolitis and potentially fatal gram-negative septicemia. Corticosteroids should not be used in cerebral malaria. Tuberculosis If corticosteroids are indicated in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, close observation is necessary as reactivation of the disease may occur. During prolonged corticosteroid therapy, these patients should receive chemoprophylaxis. Vaccination Administration of live or live, attenuated vaccines is contraindicated in patients receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids. Killed or inactivated vaccines may be administered. However, the response to such vaccines cannot be predicted. Immunization procedures may be undertaken in patients who are receiving corticosteroids as replacement therapy, e.g., for Addison's disease. Viral infections Chickenpox and measles can have a more serious or even fatal course in pediatric and adult patients on corticosteroids. In pediatric and adult patients who have not had these diseases, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If exposed to measles, prophylaxis with immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents should be considered. Ophthalmic Use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts, glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves, and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to bacteria, fungi, or viruses. If a patient presents with symptoms such as blurred vision or other visual disturbances, the patient should be considered for referral to an ophthalmologist for evaluation. The use of oral corticosteroids is not recommended in the treatment of optic neuritis and may lead to an increase in the risk of new episodes. Corticosteroids should not be used in active ocular herpes simplex. Warnings For external use only Do not use • for the treatment of diaper rash. Ask a doctor. • in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge. When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor • do not put directly into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • rectal bleeding occurs • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days, and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Do not use in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge. for the treatment of diaper rash. with any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor When using this product use only as directed avoid contact with eyes do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor do not put directly into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens, symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days, and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor rectal bleeding occurs Keep out of reach of children. (1-800-222-1222) Warnings For external use only . Flam mable. Keep away from fire or flame. Do not us e ■ for the treatment of diaper rash. ■ if you are allergic to any ingredient in this product. When using this product ■ avoid contact with the eyes ■ contents under pressure. Do not puncture or incinerate. Do not store at temperatures above 120° F. ■ use only as directed. Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal. ■ do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ condition worsens ■ symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days, do not use this or any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor. Keep out of reach of children. For external use only. Flammable. Do not use for the treatment of diaper rash. When using this product avoid contact with eyes. In case of contact with eyes, flush thoroughly with water avoid contact with broken skin do not inhale or ingest contents under pressure. Do not store at temperature above 120F. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days. Warnings For external use only Do not use for the treatment of diaper rash When using this product do not get into the eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms persist for more than 7 days symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days Do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Cortifoam ® is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any components of this product. Local contraindications to the use of intrarectal steroids include obstruction, abscess, perforation, peritonitis, fresh intestinal anastomoses, extensive fistulas and sinus tracts. CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide: Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents: When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (i.e., amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics: Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance. Anticholinesterases: Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, oral: Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin result in inhibition of response to warfarin. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics: Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular drugs: Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine: Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine: Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis glycosides: Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, including oral contraceptives: Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin): Drugs which induce hepatic microsomal drug metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Ketoconazole: Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroids side effects. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDS): Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Skin tests: Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Vaccines: Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS, Infections, Vaccination ).

=== LORATADINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antihistamine Purpose Antihistamine Nasal decongestant Purpose ​Purpose Antihistamine
Indications: Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: • runny nose • itchy, watery eyes • sneezing • itching of the nose or throat Uses Temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other respiratory allergies: runny nose sneezing itchy, watery eyes itching of the nose or throat Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: runny nose itchy, watery eyes sneezing itching of the nose or throat Uses • temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: • sneezing • itchy, watery eyes • runny nose • itching of the nose or throat • temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to the common cold, hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies • reduces swelling of nasal passages • temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure • temporarily restores freer breathing through the nose Uses ​Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: runny nose itchy, watery eyes sneezing itching of the nose or throat Uses ​Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies runny nose itchy, watery eyes sneezing itching of the nose or throat Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: ●runny nose ●itchy, watery eyes ●sneezing ●itching of the nose or throat Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: runny nose sneezing itchy, watery eyes itching of the nose or throat
Dosage: Directions adults and children 6 years and over 1 tablet daily; not more than 1 tablet in 24 hours children under 6 years of age ask a doctor consumers with liver or kidney disease ask a doctor Directions • place 1 tablet on tongue; tablet disintegrates, with or without water adults and children 6 years and over 1 tablet daily; not more than 1 tablet in 24 hours children under 6 years of age ask a doctor consumers with liver or kidney disease ask a doctor Directions adults and children 6 years of age and over 1 tablet daily; not more than 1 tablet in 24 hours children under 6 years of age ask a doctor consumers with liver or kidney disease ask a doctor Directions chew or crush tablets completely before swallowing. adults and children 6 years and over chew 2 tablets daily; not more than 2 tablets in 24 hours children 2 to under 6 years of age chew 1 tablet daily; not more than 1 tablet in 24 hours children under 2 years of age ask a doctor consumers with liver or kidney disease ask a doctor Directions • do not divide, crush, chew or dissolve the tablet adults and children 12 years and over 1 tablet every 12 hours; not more than 2 tablets in 24 hours children under 12 years of age ask a doctor consumers with liver or kidney disease ask a doctor Directions Adults and children 6 years and over: 1 tablet daily; not more than 1 tablet in 24 hours. Children under 6 years of age: Ask a doctor. Consumers with liver or kidney disease: Ask a doctor Directions ​Directions Adults and children 6 years and over 1 tablet daily; not more than 1 tablet in 24 hours Children under 6 years of age ask a doctor Consumers with liver or kidney disease ask a doctor Directions ​Directions Adults and children 6 years and over 1 tablet daily; no more than 1 tablet in 24 hours Children under 6 years of age ask a doctor Consumers with liver or kidney disease ask a doctor adults and children 6 years and over chew 2 tablets daily; not more than 2 chewable tablets in 24 hours children 2 to under 6 years of age chew 1 tablet daily; not more than 1 chewable tablet in 24 hours children under 2 years of age ask a doctor consumers with liver or kidney disease ask a doctor Directions tablet melts in mouth. Can be taken with or without water. Age Dose adults and children 6 years and over 1 tablet daily; do not use more than 1 tablet daily children under 6 ask a doctor consumers who have liver or kidney disease ask a doctor
Warnings: Warnings Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have liver or kidney disease. Your doctor should determine if you need a different dose. When using this product do not take more than directed. Taking more than directed may cause drowsiness. Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs. Seek medical help right away. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222) Warnings Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients. Ask a doctor before use if you have liver or kidney disease. Warnings Do not use if you ever have had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Warnings Do not use • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product. Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • thyroid disease • high blood pressure • diabetes • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • liver or kidney disease. Stop use and ask a doctor if • an allergic reaction to this product occurs. • symptoms do not improve within 7 days or are accompanied by a fever • nervousness, dizziness or sleeplessness occurs If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Warnings ​Warnings Do not use ​Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have Ask a doctor before use if you have liver or kidney disease. When using this product When using this product do not take more than directed. Stop use and ask a doctor if Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs. If pregnant or breast-feeding If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, contact a doctor or Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings ​Warnings Do not use Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have Ask a doctor before use if you have liver or kidney disease. You may report side effects to 1-888-952-0050. If pregnant or breast-feeding If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, contact a doctor or Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a health professional before use. When using this product do not use more than directed. Taking more than recommended may cause drowsiness.

=== DIPHENHYDRAMINE HCL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antihistamine Purpose Pain reliever Nighttime sleep aid Purpose Nighttime sleep-aid Purposes Pain reliever Nighttime sleep-aid ​Purpose External analgesic Skin protectant Purpose Pain reliever Nighttime sleep-aid
Indications: Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other respiratory allergies: ■ sneezing ■ itching of the nose or throat ■ runny nose ■ itchy watery eyes ■temporarily relieves these symptoms due to the common cold: ■ sneezing ■ runny nose Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: itchy, watery eyes sneezing runny nose itching of the nose or throat temporarily relieves these symptoms due to the common cold: sneezing runny nose Uses temporary relief of occasional headaches and minor aches and pains with accompanying sleeplessness Uses for the relief of occasional sleeplessness reduces time to fall asleep if you have difficulty falling asleep Use for relief of occasional sleeplessness. Uses • for the relief of occasional sleeplessness • reduces time to fall asleep if you have difficulty falling asleep Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: sneezing runny nose itchy, watery eyes itching of the nose or throat ​Uses for the temporary relief of pain and itching associated with: minor burns sunburn minor cuts scrapes insect bites minor skin irritations rashes due to poison ivy, poison oak and poison sumac dries the oozing and weeping of poison ivy, poison oak and poison sumac
Dosage: Directions ■ if needed, take every 4-6 hours ■ do not take more than 6 doses in 24-hours children under 4 years of age Do not use children 4 to under 6 years of age Do not use unless directed by a doctor children 6 to under 12 years of age 1 to 2 teaspoonfuls (5 ml to 10 ml) Directions do not take more than directed take every 4 to 6 hours, or as directed by a doctor do not take more than 6 times in 24 hours adults and children 12 years and over 1 to 2 tablets children 6 to under 12 years 1 tablet children under 6 years do not use Directions Do not take more than directed. See overdose warning adults and children 12 years and over take 2 caplets at bedtime do not take more than 2 caplets of this product in 24 hours children under 12 years do not use Directions take only one dose (30 mL) per day (24 hours) only use dose cup provided adults & children 12 yrs & over 30 mL at bedtime if needed or as directed by a doctor children under 12 yrs do not use Directions do not take more than directed (see overdose warning) adults and children 12 years of age and over: take 2 caplets at bedtime, if needed, or as directed by a doctor do not give to children under 12 years of age Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over: 1 softgel (50 mg) at bedtime if needed, or as directed by a doctor Directions • take only one dose per day (24 hours) • only use the dose cup provided adults & children 12 yrs & over 30 mL at bed time if needed or as directed by a doctor children under 12 yrs do not use Other information • each 30 mL contains: sodium 20 mg • store at 20-25 ° C (68-77 ° F) Directions do not take more than 6 doses in 24 hours take every 4 to 6 hours, or as directed by a doctor measure only with dosing cup provided. Do not use any other dosing device. mL = milliliter keep dosing cup with product find the right dose on chart below age (yrs) dose (mL) children 6 to 11 years 5 mL to 10 mL children 2 to 5 years do not use unless directed by a doctor children under 2 years do not use Directions do not use more often than directed adults and children 2 years of age and older: apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 2 years of age: ask a doctor Directions do not take more than directed adults and children 12 years and over: take 2 caplets at bedtime. Do not take more than 2 caplets of this product in 24 hours. children under 12 years: do not use
Warnings: Warnings Do not use ■ with any other product containing diphenhydramine, even one used on skin ■ to make a child sleepy Ask a doctor before use if the child has ■ glaucoma ■ a breathing problem such as chronic bronchitis Warnings Do not use to make a child sleepy with any other product containing diphenhydramine, even one used on skin Ask a doctor before use if you have a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis glaucoma difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers. When using this product marked drowsiness may occur avoid alcoholic beverages alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness use caution when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery excitability may occur, especially in children If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Liver warning: This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Warnings Do not use for children under 12 years of age with any other product containing diphenhydramine, even one used on skin Do not use with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen, ask a doctor or pharmacist. with any other product containing diphenhydramine, even one used on skin in children under 12 years of age if you are allergic to acetaminophen or any of the inactive ingredients in this product Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease glaucoma a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product drowsiness will occur avoid alcoholic drinks be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery Stop use and ask a doctor if sleeplessness persists continuously for more than 2 weeks. Insomnia may be a symptom of a serious underlying medical illness. pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days redness or swelling is present any new symptoms appear These could be signs of a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Overdose warning: Taking more than the recommended dose can cause serious health problems. Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. Warnings Do not use for children under 12 years of age with any other product containing diphenhydramine, even one used on skin Ask a doctor before use if you have a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis glaucoma trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers. When using this product avoid alcoholic drinks. Stop use and ask a doctor if sleeplessness persists continuously for more than 2 weeks. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings Do not use • for children under 12 years of age • with any other product containing diphenhydramine, even one used on skin Ask a doctor before use if you have • a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis • glaucoma • difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product • avoid alcoholic beverages Stop use and ask a doctor if sleeplessness persists continuously for more than 2 weeks. Insomnia may be a symptom of serious underlying medical illness. Warnings Do not use with any other product containing diphenhydramine, even one used on skin to make a child sleepy Ask a doctor before use if the child has a breathing problem such as chronic bronchitis glaucoma a sodium-restricted diet Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if the child is taking sedatives or tranquilizers. When using this product marked drowsiness may occur sedatives and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness excitability may occur, especially in children Keep out of the reach of children. ​Warnings ​For external use only. Flammable: Keep away from fire or flame. Do not puncture or incinerate. Contents under pressure. Do not store at temperatures above 120ºF. Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling contents can be harmful or fatal. Do not use on large areas of the body with any other product containing diphenhydramine, even one taken by mouth Ask a doctor before use on chicken pox on measles When using this product avoid contact with eyes Stop use and ask doctor if conditions worsens symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Do not use with any other product containing diphenhydramine, even one used on skin in children under 12 years of age with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis liver disease glaucoma difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product avoid alcoholic beverages drowsiness will occur do not drive a motor vehicle or operate machinery Stop use and ask a doctor if sleeplessness persists continuously for more than 2 weeks. new symptoms occur redness or swelling is present pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days These could be signs of a serious condition. In case of accidental overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Prompt medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms.

=== DIPHENHYDRAMINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Active ingredients (in each 10 mL) Purposes Acetaminophen 325 mg Pain reliever/fever reducer Diphenhydramine HCl 12.5 mg Antihistamine/cough suppressant Phenylephrine HCl 5 mg Nasal decongestant Purpose Antihistamine Purpose Pain reliever Nighttime sleep aid Purpose Acetaminophen 500 mg ....................................................................................................................................Pain reliever Diphenhydramine HCl 25 mg ...........................................................................….................................Nighttime sleep aid Purpose Nighttime sleep-aid Purposes Pain reliever Nighttime sleep-aid
Indications: Uses temporarily relieves these common cold and flu symptoms: cough nasal congestion minor aches and pains sore throat headache runny nose sneezing temporarily reduces fever controls cough to help your child get to sleep INDICATIONS AND USAGE Diphenhydramine hydrochloride injection, USP is effective in adults and pediatric patients, other than premature infants and neonates, for the following conditions when the oral form is impractical. Antihistaminic For amelioration of allergic reactions to blood or plasma, in anaphylaxis as an adjunct to epinephrine and other standard measures after the acute symptoms have been controlled and for other uncomplicated allergic conditions of the immediate type when oral therapy is impossible or contraindicated. Motion Sickness For active treatment of motion sickness. Antiparkinsonism For use in parkinsonism, when oral therapy is impossible or contraindicated, as follows: parkinsonism in the elderly who are unable to tolerate more potent agents, mild cases of parkinsonism in other age groups and in other cases of parkinsonism in combination with centrally acting anticholinergic agents. Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: itchy, watery eyes sneezing runny nose itching of the nose or throat temporarily relieves these symptoms due to the common cold: sneezing runny nose Uses temporary relief of occasional headaches and minor aches and pains with accompanying sleeplessness Uses: temporary relief of occasional headaches and minor aches and pains with accompanying sleeplessness Uses for the relief of occasional sleeplessness reduces time to fall asleep if you have difficulty falling asleep Uses • temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: • sneezing • itching of the nose or throat • runny nose • itchy, watery eyes Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: runny nose sneezing itchy, watery eyes itching of the nose or throat temporarily relieves these symptoms due to the common cold: runny nose sneezing Use for relief of occasional sleeplessness.
Dosage: Directions this product does not contain directions or complete warnings for adult use do not give more than directed (see Overdose warning ) measure only with dosing cup provided do not use dosing cup with other products dose as follows or as directed by a doctor children 6 to under 12 years of age: 10 mL in dosing cup provided every 4 hours while symptoms last; do not give more than 5 doses in any 24-hour period children under 6 years of age: do not use DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION THIS PRODUCT IS FOR INTRAVENOUS OR INTRAMUSCULAR ADMINISTRATION ONLY. Diphenhydramine hydrochloride injection, USP is indicated when the oral form is impractical. DOSAGE SHOULD BE INDIVIDUALIZED ACCORDING TO THE NEEDS AND THE RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT. Pediatric Patients, Other Than Premature Infants and Neonates 5 mg/kg/24 hours or 150 mg/m 2 /24 hours. Maximum daily dosage is 300 mg. Divide into four doses, administered intravenously at a rate generally not exceeding 25 mg/min, or deep intramuscularly. Adults 10 mg to 50 mg intravenously at a rate generally not exceeding 25 mg/min, or deep intramuscularly; 100 mg if required; maximum daily dosage is 400 mg. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Directions do not take more than directed take every 4 to 6 hours, or as directed by a doctor do not take more than 6 times in 24 hours adults and children 12 years and over 1 to 2 tablets children 6 to under 12 years 1 tablet children under 6 years do not use Directions Do not take more than directed. See overdose warning adults and children 12 years and over take 2 caplets at bedtime do not take more than 2 caplets of this product in 24 hours children under 12 years do not use Directions: ■ do not take more than directed (see overdose warning) adults and children 12 years and over ■ take 2 caplets at bedtime ■ do not take more than 2 caplets in 24 hours unless directed by a doctor ■ children under 12 years do not use Directions take only one dose (30 mL) per day (24 hours) only use dose cup provided adults & children 12 yrs & over 30 mL at bedtime if needed or as directed by a doctor children under 12 yrs do not use Directions • find right dose on chart below • mL = milliliter • take every 4 to 6 hours, or as directed by a doctor • do not take more than 6 doses in 24 hours Age (yr) Dose (mL) children under 2 years do not use children 2 to 5 years do not use unless directed by a doctor children 6 to 11 years 5 mL to 10 mL Attention: use only enclosed dosing cup specifically designed for use with this product. Do not use any other dosing device. Directions do not take more than directed (see overdose warning) adults and children 12 years of age and over: take 2 caplets at bedtime, if needed, or as directed by a doctor do not give to children under 12 years of age Directions take every 4 to 6 hours do not take more than 6 doses in 24 hours adults and children 12 years and over 1 to 2 capsules children 6 to under 12 years 1 capsule children under 6 years do not use this product in children under 6 years of age Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over: 1 softgel (50 mg) at bedtime if needed, or as directed by a doctor
Warnings: Warnings Liver warning This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if your child takes: more than 5 doses in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount with other drugs containing acetaminophen Allergy alert Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Sore throat warning I f sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. Do not use with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen, ask a doctor or pharmacist. to make a child sleepy with any other product containing diphenhydramine, even one used on the skin in a child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your child's prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product. Ask a doctor before use if the child has liver disease heart disease diabetes high blood pressure thyroid disease glaucoma a breathing problem such as chronic bronchitis persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with asthma cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if the child is taking the blood thinning drug warfarin taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product do not use more than directed (see Overdose warning ) excitability may occur, especially in children marked drowsiness may occur sedatives and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occur pain, nasal congestion, or cough gets worse or lasts more than 5 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur cough comes back, or occurs with fever, rash, or headache that lasts. These could be signs of a serious condition. Keep out of reach of children. Overdose warning Taking more than the recommended dose (overdose) may cause liver damage. I n case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Quick medical attention is critical even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. WARNINGS Antihistamines should be used with considerable caution in patients with narrow-angle glaucoma, stenosing peptic ulcer, pyloroduodenal obstruction, symptomatic prostatic hypertrophy or bladder-neck obstruction. Local necrosis has been associated with the use of subcutaneous or intradermal use of intravenous diphenhydramine. Use in Pediatric Patients In pediatric patients, especially, antihistamines in overdosage may cause hallucinations, convulsions or death. As in adults, antihistamines may diminish mental alertness in pediatric patients. In the young pediatric patient, particularly, they may produce excitation. Use in the Elderly (approximately 60 years or older) Antihistamines are more likely to cause dizziness, sedation and hypotension in elderly patients. Warnings Do not use to make a child sleepy with any other product containing diphenhydramine, even one used on skin Ask a doctor before use if you have a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis glaucoma difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers. When using this product marked drowsiness may occur avoid alcoholic beverages alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness use caution when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery excitability may occur, especially in children If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Liver warning: This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Warnings: Liver warning: This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take ■ more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hrs ■ with other drugs containing acetaminophen ■ 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product. Allergy alert: acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: ■ skin reddening ■ blisters ■ rash. If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Warnings Do not use for children under 12 years of age with any other product containing diphenhydramine, even one used on skin Warnings Do not use • with any other product containing diphenhydramine, even one used on skin • to make a child sleepy Ask a doctor before use if the child has • a breathing problem such as chronic bronchitis • glaucoma • a sodium-restricted diet Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if the child is taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product • marked drowsiness may occur • excitability may occur, especially in children • sedatives and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). with any other product containing diphenhydramine, even one used on skin in children under 12 years of age if you are allergic to acetaminophen or any of the inactive ingredients in this product Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease glaucoma a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product drowsiness will occur avoid alcoholic drinks be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery Stop use and ask a doctor if sleeplessness persists continuously for more than 2 weeks. Insomnia may be a symptom of a serious underlying medical illness. pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days redness or swelling is present any new symptoms appear These could be signs of a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Overdose warning: Taking more than the recommended dose can cause serious health problems. Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. Do not use to make a child sleepy with any other product containing diphenhydramine, even one used on skin Warnings Do not use for children under 12 years of age with any other product containing diphenhydramine, even one used on skin Ask a doctor before use if you have a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis glaucoma trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers. When using this product avoid alcoholic drinks. Stop use and ask a doctor if sleeplessness persists continuously for more than 2 weeks. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Use in Neonates or Premature Infants This drug should not be used in neonates or premature infants. Use in Nursing Mothers Because of the higher risk of antihistamines for infants generally, and for neonates and prematures in particular, antihistamine therapy is contraindicated in nursing mothers. Use as a Local Anesthetic Because of the risk of local necrosis, this drug should not be used as a local anesthetic. Antihistamines are also Contraindicated in the Following Conditions Hypersensitivity to diphenhydramine hydrochloride and other antihistamines of similar chemical structure.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Diphenhydramine hydrochloride has additive effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants (hypnotics, sedatives, tranquilizers, etc.) MAO inhibitors prolong and intensify the anticholinergic (drying) effects of antihistamines.

=== PYRITHIONE ZINC ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Anti-dandruff Anti-Dandruff
Indications: Uses fights recurrence of the symptoms of dandruff. Use helps prevent recurrence of flaking and itching associated with dandruff. Use helps prevent recurrence of flaking and itching associated with dandruff For the relief of the symptoms of dandruff. ​ For the relief of the symptoms of dandruff
Dosage: Directions for best results use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor. shake before use, wet hair, massage onto scalp, rinse, repeat if desired. Directions shake well wet hair massage onto scalp rinse repeat if desired for best results use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor for maximum dandruff control, use every time you shampoo Directions shake well for manimum dandruff control, use every time you shampoo wet hair, massage onto scalp, rinse, repeat if desired for best results use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor Directions shake well for maximum dandruff control, use every time you shampoo wet hair, massage onto scalp, rinse, repeat if desired for best results use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor Apply a small amount quantity of the product into hair and massage the scalp. Rinse thoroughly with enough water, repeat if needed. For best results, use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor. Allow the product to act for 5 minutes. Rinse thoroughly with enough water. Directions shake well wet hair massage onto scalp rinse repeat if desired for best results use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor for maximum dandruff control, use every time you shampoo.
Warnings: Warnings For external use only. When using this product avoid contact with eyes. If contact occurs, rinse eyes thoroughly with water. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve after regular use of this product as directed. Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only When using this product avoid contact with the eyes. If contact occurs, rinse eyes thoroughly with water Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve after regular use of this product as directed Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Warnings For external use only For external use only. Do not use on wounds or damaged skin or on a child under 12 years of age unless directed by a physician. Do not use on wounds or damaged skin or on a child under 12 years of age unless directed by a physician Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve after regular use as directed. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away.

=== LIDOCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Topical Analgesic Purpose Topical Antiseptic Purpose Analgesic Topical Analgesic Purpose: Purpose: First aid antiseptic to help prevent skin infection in minor cuts, scrapes and burns. For preparation of the skin prior to surgery. Helps reduce bacteria that can potentially cause skin infections. Purpose Antiseptic
Indications: Use(s) For the temporary relief of pain and itching associated with: • Sunburn • Minor burns • Insect bites • Cuts • Scrapes Use(s) For the temporary relief of pain associated with • Minor burns • Sunburn Use(s) • For the temporary relief of pain associated with • Minor burns • Sunburn INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lidocaine is indicated for the production of topical anesthesia of irritated or inflamed mucous membranes of the mouth and pharynx. It is also useful for reducing gagging during the taking of X-ray pictures and dental impressions. Adults and children over 12 years : apply a thin layer to the affected area every 6 to 8 hours, not to exceed 3 applications in a 24-hour period. AFTER APPLYING, WASH HANDS WITH SOAP AND WATER. Children under 12 years or younger: ask a doctor. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection, USP is indicated for production of local or regional anesthesia by infiltration techniques such as percutaneous injection and intravenous regional anesthesia by peripheral nerve block techniques such as brachial plexus and intercostal and by central neural techniques such as lumbar and caudal epidural blocks, when the accepted procedures for these techniques as described in standard textbooks are observed. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection is indicated in adults for the production of local or regional anesthesia or analgesia for surgery, dental and oral surgery procedures, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and for obstetrical procedures. Specific concentrations and presentations of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection are recommended for each type of block indicated to produce local or regional anesthesia or analgesia [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection contains bupivacaine, an amide local anesthetic. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection is indicated in adults for the production of local or regional anesthesia or analgesia for surgery, dental and oral surgery procedures, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and for obstetrical procedures. For each type of block indicated to produce local or regional anesthesia or analgesia, specific concentrations and presentations are recommended. ( 1 , 2.2 ) Limitations of Use Not all blocks are indicated for use with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection given clinically significant risks associated with use. ( 1 , 2.2 , 4 , 5.1 , 5.4 , 5.5 , 5.7 , 5.9 ) Limitations of Use Not all blocks are indicated for use with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection given clinically significant risks associated with use [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.4 , 5.5 , 5.7 , 5.9) ] . INDICATIONS AND USAGE A. For Intramuscular Administration When oral therapy is not feasible and the strength, dosage form, and route of administration of the drug reasonably lend the preparation to the treatment of the condition, the intramuscular use of methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is indicated as follows: Allergic States : Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment in asthma, atopic dermatitis, contact dermatitis, drug hypersensitivity reactions, serum sickness, transfusion reactions. Dermatologic Diseases : Bullous dermatitis herpetiformis, exfoliative dermatitis, mycosis fungoides, pemphigus, severe erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson syndrome). Endocrine Disorders : Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the drug of choice; synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable; in infancy, mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance), congenital adrenal hyperplasia, hypercalcemia associated with cancer, nonsupportive thyroiditis. Gastrointestinal Diseases : To tide the patient over a critical period of the disease in regional enteritis (systemic therapy) and ulcerative colitis. Hematologic Disorders : Acquired (autoimmune) hemolytic anemia, congenital (erythroid) hypoplastic anemia (Diamond Blackfan anemia), pure red cell aplasia, select cases of secondary thrombocytopenia. Miscellaneous : Trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement, tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy. Neoplastic Diseases : For palliative management of: leukemias and lymphomas. Nervous System : Cerebral edema associated with primary or metastatic brain tumor or craniotomy. Ophthalmic Diseases : Sympathetic ophthalmia, temporal arteritis, uveitis, ocular inflammatory conditions unresponsive to topical corticosteroids. Renal Diseases : To induce diuresis or remission of proteinuria in idiopathic nephrotic syndrome, or that due to lupus erythematosus. Respiratory Diseases : Berylliosis, fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy, idiopathic eosinophilic pneumonias, symptomatic sarcoidosis. Rheumatic Disorders : As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in acute gouty arthritis; acute rheumatic carditis; ankylosing spondylitis; psoriatic arthritis; rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low-dose maintenance therapy). For the treatment of dermatomyositis, polymyositis, and systemic lupus erythematosus. B. For Intra-articular Or Soft Tissue Administration ( See WARNINGS ) Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is indicated as adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in acute gouty arthritis, acute and subacute bursitis, acute nonspecific tenosynovitis, epicondylitis, rheumatoid arthritis, synovitis of osteoarthritis. C. For Intralesional Administration Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is indicated for intralesional use in alopecia areata, discoid lupus erythematosus; keloids, localized hypertrophic, infiltrated inflammatory lesions of granuloma annulare, lichen planus, lichen simplex chronicus (neurodermatitis) and psoriatic plaques; necrobiosis lipoidica diabeticorum. Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension also may be useful in cystic tumors of an aponeurosis or tendon (ganglia). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lidocaine hydrochloride injection is indicated for production of local or regional anesthesia by infiltration techniques such as percutaneous injection and intravenous regional anesthesia by peripheral nerve block techniques such as brachial plexus and intercostal and by central neural techniques such as lumbar and caudal epidural blocks, when the accepted procedures for these techniques as described in standard textbooks are observed. For use as an first aid antiseptic pre-operative skin preperation INDICATIONS AND USAGE This parenteral preparation is indicated only for diluting or dissolving drugs for intravenous, intramuscular or subcutaneous injection, according to instructions of the manufacturer of the drug to be administered. Uses For first aid to decrease germs in minor cuts scrapes burns For preparation of the skin prior to injection
Dosage: Directions Adults and children 2 years and over: • Clean the affected area • Apply a small amount of this product on the area 3 to 4 times daily • May be covered with a sterile bandage Children under 2 years: • Consult a doctor Directions • Adults and children 2 years of age and older: Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily. • Children under 2 years of age: Consult a doctor Directions • Adults and children 2 years of age and older: Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • Children under 2 years of age: Consult a doctor DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult The maximum recommended single dose of lidocaine for healthy adults should be such that the dose of lidocaine does not exceed 4.5 mg/kg or 2 mg/lb body weight and does not in any case exceed a total of 300 mg. For symptomatic treatment of irritated or inflamed mucous membranes of the mouth and pharynx, the usual adult dose is 15 mL undiluted. For use in the mouth, the solution should be swished around in the mouth and spit out. For use in the pharynx, the undiluted solution should be gargled and may be swallowed. This dose should not be administered at intervals of less than three hours, and not more than eight doses should be given in a 24-hour period. The dosage should be adjusted commensurate with the patient’s age, weight and physical condition (see PRECAUTIONS ). Pediatric Care must be taken to ensure correct dosage in all pediatric patients as there have been cases of overdose due to inappropriate dosing. It is difficult to recommend a maximum dose of any drug for children since this varies as a function of age and weight. For children over 3 years of age who have a normal lean body mass and normal body development, the maximum dose is determined by the child’s weight or age. For example: in a child of 5 years weighing 50 lbs., the dose of lidocaine should not exceed 75 to 100 mg (3.7 to 5 mL of lidocaine). For infants and in children under 3 years of age, the solution should be accurately measured and no more than 1.2 mL be applied to the immediate area with a cotton-tipped applicator. Wait at least 3 hours before giving the next dose; a maximum of four doses may be given in a 12-hour period. Lidocaine should only be used if the underlying condition requires treatment with a volume of product that is less than or equal to 1.2 mL. Temporarily relieves minor pain. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Table 1 (Recommended Dosages) summarizes the recommended volumes and concentrations of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection, USP for various types of anesthetic procedures. The dosages suggested in this table are for normal healthy adults and refer to the use of epinephrine-free solutions. When larger volumes are required only solutions containing epinephrine should be used, except in those cases where vasopressor drugs may be contraindicated. There have been adverse event reports of chondrolysis in patients receiving intra-articular infusions of local anesthetics following arthroscopic and other surgical procedures. Lidocaine is not approved for this use (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). These recommended doses serve only as a guide to the amount of anesthetic required for most routine procedures. The actual volumes and concentrations to be used depend on a number of factors such as type and extent of surgical procedure, depth of anesthesia and degree of muscular relaxation required, duration of anesthesia required, and the physical condition of the patient. In all cases the lowest concentration and smallest dose that will produce the desired result should be given. Dosages should be reduced for children and for elderly and debilitated patients and patients with cardiac and/or liver disease. The onset of anesthesia, the duration of anesthesia and the degree of muscular relaxation are proportional to the volume and concentration (i.e., total dose) of local anesthetic used. Thus, an increase in volume and concentration of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection will decrease the onset of anesthesia, prolong the duration of anesthesia, provide a greater degree of muscular relaxation and increase the segmental spread of anesthesia. However, increasing the volume and concentration of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection may result in a more profound fall in blood pressure when used in epidural anesthesia. Although the incidence of side effects with lidocaine is quite low, caution should be exercised when employing large volumes and concentrations, since the incidence of side effects is directly proportional to the total dose of local anesthetic agent injected. For intravenous regional anesthesia, only the 50 mL single-dose vial containing 0.5% Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection, USP should be used. Epidural Anesthesia For epidural anesthesia, only the following available specific products of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection by Hospira are recommended: 1%. . 30 mL single-dose teartop vials 1.5%. 20 mL single-dose ampuls 2%. 10 mL single-dose ampuls Although these solutions are intended specifically for epidural anesthesia, they may also be used for infiltration and peripheral nerve block provided they are employed as single dose units. These solutions contain no bacteriostatic agent. In epidural anesthesia, the dosage varies with the number of dermatomes to be anesthetized (generally 2−3 mL of the indicated concentration per dermatome). Caudal and Lumbar Epidural Block: As a precaution against the adverse experiences sometimes observed following unintentional penetration of the subarachnoid space, a test dose such as 2−3 mL of 1.5% lidocaine hydrochloride should be administered at least 5 minutes prior to injecting the total volume required for a lumbar or caudal epidural block. The test dose should be repeated if the patient is moved in a manner that may have displaced the catheter. Epinephrine, if contained in the test dose (10−15 mcg have been suggested), may serve as a warning of unintentional intravascular injection. If injected into a blood vessel, this amount of epinephrine is likely to produce a transient "epinephrine response" within 45 seconds, consisting of an increase in heart rate and systolic blood pressure, circumoral pallor, palpitations and nervousness in the unsedated patient. The sedated patient may exhibit only a pulse rate increase of 20 or more beats per minute for 15 or more seconds. Patients on beta-blockers may not manifest changes in heart rate, but blood pressure monitoring can detect an evanescent rise in systolic blood pressure. Adequate time should be allowed for onset of anesthesia after administration of each test dose. The rapid injection of a large volume of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection through the catheter should be avoided, and, when feasible, fractional doses should be administered. In the event of the known injection of a large volume of local anesthetic solutions into the subarachnoid space, after suitable resuscitation and if the catheter is in place, consider attempting the recovery of drug by draining a moderate amount of cerebrospinal fluid (such as 10 mL) through the epidural catheter. Maximum Recommended Dosages NOTE: The products accompanying this insert do not contain epinephrine. Adults: For normal healthy adults, the individual maximum recommended dose of lidocaine HCl with epinephrine should not exceed 7 mg/kg (3.5 mg/lb) of body weight and in general it is recommended that the maximum total dose not exceed 500 mg. When used without epinephrine, the maximum individual dose should not exceed 4.5 mg/kg (2 mg/lb) of body weight and in general it is recommended that the maximum total dose does not exceed 300 mg. For continuous epidural or caudal anesthesia, the maximum recommended dosage should not be administered at intervals of less than 90 minutes. When continuous lumbar or caudal epidural anesthesia is used for non-obstetrical procedures, more drug may be administered if required to produce adequate anesthesia. The maximum recommended dose per 90 minute period of lidocaine hydrochloride for paracervical block in obstetrical patients and non-obstetrical patients is 200 mg total. One-half of the total dose is usually administered to each side. Inject slowly five minutes between sides. (See also discussion of paracervical block in PRECAUTIONS ). For intravenous regional anesthesia, the dose administered should not exceed 4 mg/kg in adults. Children: It is difficult to recommend a maximum dose of any drug for children, since this varies as a function of age and weight. For children over 3 years of age who have a normal lean body mass and normal body development, the maximum dose is determined by the child’s age and weight. For example, in a child of 5 years weighing 50 lbs., the dose of lidocaine HCl should not exceed 75 — 100 mg (1.5 — 2 mg/lb). The use of even more dilute solutions (i.e., 0.25 — 0.5%) and total dosages not to exceed 3 mg/kg (1.4 mg/lb) are recommended for induction of intravenous regional anesthesia in children. In order to guard against systemic toxicity, the lowest effective concentration and lowest effective dose should be used at all times. In some cases it will be necessary to dilute available concentrations with 0.9% sodium chloride injection in order to obtain the required final concentration. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever the solution and container permit. Solutions that are discolored and/or contain particulate matter should not be used. Table 1 Recommended Dosages of Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection, USP for Various Anesthetic Procedures in Normal Healthy Adults Lidocaine Hydrochloride Injection, USP (without Epinephrine) Procedure Conc. (%) Vol. (mL) Total Dose (mg) Infiltration Percutaneous 0.5 or 1.0 1−60 5−300 Intravenous Regional 0.5 10−60 50−300 Peripheral Nerve Blocks, e.g. Brachial 1.5 15−20 225−300 Dental 2.0 1−5 20−100 Intercostal 1.0 3 30 Paravertebral 1.0 3−5 30−50 Pudendal (each side) 1.0 10 100 Paracervical Obstetrical Analgesia (each side) 1.0 10 100 Sympathetic Nerve Blocks, e.g. Cervical (stellate ganglion) 1.0 5 50 Lumbar 1.0 5−10 50−100 Central Neural Blocks Epidural* Thoracic 1.0 20−30 200−300 Lumbar Analgesia 1.0 25−30 250−300 Anesthesia 1.5 15−20 225−300 2.0 10−15 200−300 Caudal Obstetrical Analgesia 1.0 20−30 200−300 Surgical Anesthesia 1.5 15−20 225−300 *Dose determined by number of dermatomes to be anesthetized (2 to 3 mL/dermatome). THE ABOVE SUGGESTED CONCENTRATIONS AND VOLUMES SERVE ONLY AS A GUIDE. OTHER VOLUMES AND CONCENTRATIONS MAY BE USED PROVIDED THE TOTAL MAXIMUM RECOMMENDED DOSE IS NOT EXCEEDED. Sterilization, Storage and Technical Procedures: Disinfecting agents containing heavy metals, which cause release of respective ions (mercury, zinc, copper, etc.) should not be used for skin or mucous membrane disinfection as they have been related to incidence of swelling and edema. When chemical disinfection of multi-dose vials is desired, either isopropyl alcohol (91%) or 70% ethyl alcohol is recommended. Many commercially available brands of rubbing alcohol, as well as solutions of ethyl alcohol not of USP grade, contain denaturants which are injurious to rubber and, therefore, are not to be used. It is recommended that chemical disinfection be accomplished by wiping the vial stopper thoroughly with cotton or gauze that has been moistened with the recommended alcohol just prior to use. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Not for intrathecal use. ( 2.1 ) Avoid use of solutions containing antimicrobial preservatives (i.e., multiple-dose vials) for epidural or caudal anesthesia. ( 2.1 , 5.4 ) Three mL of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection without antimicrobial preservative (0.5% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine) is recommended for use as a test dose prior to caudal and lumbar epidural blocks when clinical conditions permit. ( 2.4 ) See full prescribing information for: Recommended concentrations and dosages of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection according to type of block. ( 2.2 ) Additional dosage and administration information pertaining to use in epidural anesthesia, test dose for caudal and lumbar epidural blocks, use in dentistry, and use in ophthalmic surgery. ( 2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is not for intrathecal use. Avoid use of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection solutions containing antimicrobial preservatives (i.e., multiple-dose vials) for epidural or caudal anesthesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Discard unused portions of solution not containing preservatives, i.e., those supplied in single-dose vials, following initial use. Visually inspect this product for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection are clear, colorless solutions. Do not administer solutions which are discolored or contain particulate matter. Mixing or the prior or intercurrent use of any other local anesthetic with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is not recommended because of insufficient data on the clinical use of such mixtures. Administration Precautions Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection are to be administered in carefully adjusted dosages by or under the supervision of experienced clinicians who are well versed in the diagnosis and management of dose-related toxicity and other acute emergencies which might arise from the block to be employed. Use Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection only if the following are immediately available: oxygen, cardiopulmonary resuscitative equipment and drugs, and the personnel resources needed for proper management of toxic reactions and related emergencies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6) , Overdosage (10) ] . The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. Monitor for neurologic and cardiovascular effects related to local anesthetic systemic toxicity when additional local anesthetics are administered with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Drug Interactions (7.1) , Overdosage (10) ] . Aspirate for blood or cerebrospinal fluid (where applicable) prior to injecting Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection, both the initial dose and all subsequent doses, to avoid intravascular or intrathecal injection. However, a negative aspiration for blood or cerebrospinal fluid does not ensure against an intravascular or intrathecal injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . Avoid rapid injection of a large volume of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and use fractional (incremental) doses when feasible. During major regional nerve blocks, such as those of the brachial plexus or lower extremity, the patient should have an indwelling intravenous catheter to assure adequate intravenous access. The lowest dosage of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection that results in effective anesthesia should be used to avoid high plasma levels and serious adverse reactions. Perform careful and constant monitoring of cardiovascular and respiratory (adequacy of oxygenation and ventilation) vital signs and the patient's level of consciousness after each local anesthetic injection. Use Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection in carefully restricted quantities in areas of the body supplied by end arteries or having otherwise compromised blood supply such as digits, nose, external ear, or penis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . 2.2 Recommended Concentrations and Dosages of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection The dosage of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection administered varies with the anesthetic procedure, the area to be anesthetized, the vascularity of the tissues, the number of neuronal segments to be blocked, the depth of anesthesia and degree of muscle relaxation required, the duration of anesthesia desired, individual tolerance, and the physical condition of the patient. Administer the smallest dosage and concentration required to produce the desired result. The types of block and recommended Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection concentrations are shown in Table 1. Table 1. Types of Block and Recommended Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection Concentrations Type of Block Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) is not recommended for nonobstetrical surgical procedures in pregnant patients. 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 0.5% (5 mg/mL) ✓= indicated use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Local infiltration ✓ ✓ Peripheral nerve block ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Retrobulbar block ✓ Sympathetic block ✓ Caudal block Avoid use of multiple-dose vials of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection for caudal or epidural anesthesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] . ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Lumbar epidural block ✓ ✓ ✓ (not for obstetrical anesthesia) ✓ ✓ Epidural test dose ✓ Dental block ✓ At recommended dosages, Bupivacaine Hydrochloride/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine produces complete sensory block, but the effect on motor function differs among the three concentrations. Table 2 provides information on the expected effect on motor function for the three concentrations. Table 2. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection Concentration vs. Motor Function Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Concentration Motor Function 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) These products include Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection [the epinephrine concentration (1:200,000) is not included in the table]. When used for caudal, epidural, or peripheral nerve block, produces incomplete motor block. Should be used for operations in which muscle relaxation is not important, or when another means of providing muscle relaxation is used concurrently. Onset of action may be slower than with the 0.5% (5 mg/mL) or 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) solutions. 0.5% (5 mg/mL) Provides motor blockade for caudal, epidural, or nerve block, but muscle relaxation may be inadequate for operations in which complete muscle relaxation is essential. 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) These are only Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection products [there is no 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) concentration for Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection]. Produces complete motor block. Most useful for epidural block in abdominal operations requiring complete muscle relaxation, and for retrobulbar anesthesia. Not for obstetrical anesthesia. The duration of anesthesia with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is such that for most indications, a single-dose is sufficient. The maximum dosage limit within the recommended dosage range must be individualized in each case after evaluating the size and physical status of the patient, as well as the anticipated rate of systemic absorption from a particular injection site. The dosages in Table 3 are recommended as a guide for use in the average adult. These doses may be repeated once every three hours. Do not exceed a total daily dosage of 400 mg in 24 hours. The duration of anesthetic effect may be prolonged by the addition of epinephrine. Table 3. Recommended Concentrations and Doses of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection in Adults Type of Block Concentration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Each Dose Motor Block With continuous (intermittent) techniques, repeat doses increase the degree of motor block. The first repeat dose of 0.5% (5 mg/mL) may produce complete motor block. Intercostal nerve block with 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) also may produce complete motor block for intra-thoracic and upper intra-abdominal surgery. mL mg of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Local infiltration 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) Solutions with or without epinephrine (i.e., applies to Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection). The Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection products include epinephrine (1:200,000). Up to 70 (without epinephrine) Up to 175 (without epinephrine) ― Up to 90 (with epinephrine) Up to 225 (with epinephrine) Peripheral nerve block 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 5–35 (without epinephrine) 25–175 (without epinephrine) moderate to complete 5–45 (with epinephrine) 25–225 (with epinephrine) 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 5–70 (without epinephrine) 12.5–175 (without epinephrine) moderate to complete 5–90 (with epinephrine) 12.5–225 (with epinephrine) Retrobulbar block [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) 2–4 15–30 complete Sympathetic block 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 20–50 50–125 ― Caudal block [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 15–30 75–150 moderate to complete 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 15–30 37.5–75 moderate Lumbar epidural block [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) For single-dose use; not for intermittent epidural technique. 10–20 75–150 complete 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 10–20 50–100 moderate to complete 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 10–20 25–50 partial to moderate Epidural test dose [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] 0.5% (5 mg/mL) with epinephrine 2–3 10–15 (10–15 micrograms epinephrine) ― Dental [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] 0.5% (5 mg/mL) with epinephrine 1.8–3.6 per site 9–18 per site ― 2.3 Use in Epidural Anesthesia During the administration of epidural anesthesia, it is recommended that a test dose of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection without antimicrobial preservative (0.5% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine) be administered initially and the effects monitored before the full dose is given. When using a "continuous" catheter technique, test doses should be given prior to both the initial and all supplemental doses, because a catheter in the epidural space can migrate into a blood vessel or through the dura [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . During epidural administration, administer Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection, 0.5% (5 mg/mL) and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) solutions in incremental doses of 3 mL to 5 mL with sufficient time between doses to detect toxic manifestations of unintentional intravascular or intrathecal injection. Administer injections slowly, with frequent aspirations before and during the injection to avoid intravascular injection. Perform syringe aspirations before and during each supplemental injection in continuous (intermittent) catheter techniques. In obstetrics, use ONLY the 0.5% (5 mg/mL) and 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) concentrations of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]; incremental doses of 3 mL to 5 mL of the 0.5% (5 mg/mL) solution not exceeding 50 mg to 100 mg at any dosing interval are recommended. Repeat doses should be preceded by a test dose containing epinephrine if not clinically contraindicated. Use only the single-dose vials for caudal or epidural anesthesia; avoid use of the multiple-dose vials for these procedures, which contain a preservative [see Dosage and Administration (2.1 , 2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.4 , 5.9) ] . 2.4 Test Dose for Caudal and Lumbar Epidural Blocks Three mL of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection without antimicrobial preservative (0.5% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine) is recommended for use as a test dose prior to caudal and lumbar epidural blocks when clinical conditions permit. This test dose may serve as a warning of unintended intravascular or intrathecal injection. Closely monitor for early clinical signs of toxicity following each test dose [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . Allot adequate time for onset of spinal block to detect possible intrathecal injection. An intravascular or intrathecal injection is still possible even if results of the test dose are negative. The test dose itself may produce a systemic toxic reaction, high spinal, or cardiovascular effects from the epinephrine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.9) , Overdosage (10) ]. 2.5 Use in Dentistry Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection 0.5% (5 mg/mL) is recommended for infiltration and block injection in the maxillary and mandibular area when a longer duration of local anesthesia is desired, such as for procedures generally associated with significant postoperative pain. The average dose of 1.8 mL (9 mg) per injection site will usually suffice; an occasional second dose of 1.8 mL (9 mg) may be used if necessary to produce adequate anesthesia after allowing 2 to 10 minutes for block onset [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Use the lowest effective dose and allow time between injections; it is recommended that the total dose for all injection sites, spread out over a single dental sitting, not exceed 90 mg for a healthy adult patient (ten 1.8 mL injections of 0.5% (5 mg/mL) Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection). Inject slowly and with frequent aspirations. 2.6 Use in Ophthalmic Surgery When Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) is used for retrobulbar block, complete corneal anesthesia usually precedes onset of clinically acceptable external ocular muscle akinesia. Therefore, presence of akinesia rather than anesthesia alone should determine readiness of the patient for surgery [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15) ] . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Because of possible physical incompatibilities, methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension should not be diluted or mixed with other solutions. The initial dosage of parenterally administered methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension will vary from 4 mg to 120 mg, depending on the specific disease entity being treated. However, in certain overwhelming, acute, life-threatening situations, administration in dosages exceeding the usual dosages may be justified and may be in multiples of the oral dosages. It Should Be Emphasized that Dosage Requirements Are Variable and Must Be Individualized on the Basis of the Disease Under Treatment and the Response of the Patient. After a favorable response is noted, the proper maintenance dosage should be determined by decreasing the initial drug dosage in small decrements at appropriate time intervals until the lowest dosage which will maintain an adequate clinical response is reached. Situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process, the patient’s individual drug responsiveness, and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease entity under treatment. In this latter situation, it may be necessary to increase the dosage of the corticosteroid for a period of time consistent with the patient’s condition. If after long-term therapy the drug is to be stopped, it is recommended that it be withdrawn gradually rather than abruptly. A. Administration for Local Effect Therapy with methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension does not obviate the need for the conventional measures usually employed. Although this method of treatment will ameliorate symptoms, it is in no sense a cure and the hormone has no effect on the cause of the inflammation. 1. Rheumatoid Arthritis and Osteoarthritis. The dose for intra-articular administration depends upon the size of the joint and varies with the severity of the condition in the individual patient. In chronic cases, injections may be repeated at intervals ranging from one to five or more weeks, depending upon the degree of relief obtained from the initial injection. The doses in the following table are given as a general guide: Size of Joint Examples Range of Dosage Large Knees Ankles Shoulders 20 mg to 80 mg Medium Elbows Wrists 10 mg to 40 mg Small Metacarpophalangeal Interphalangeal Sternoclavicular Acromioclavicular 4 mg to 10 mg Procedure: It is recommended that the anatomy of the joint involved be reviewed before attempting intra-articular injection. In order to obtain the full anti-inflammatory effect, it is important that the injection be made into the synovial space. Employing the same sterile technique as for a lumbar puncture, a sterile 20 to 24 gauge needle (on a dry syringe) is quickly inserted into the synovial cavity. Procaine infiltration is elective. The aspiration of only a few drops of joint fluid proves the joint space has been entered by the needle. The injection site for each joint is determined by that location where the synovial cavity is most superficial and most free of large vessels and nerves. With the needle in place, the aspirating syringe is removed and replaced by a second syringe containing the desired amount of methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension. The plunger is then pulled outward slightly to aspirate synovial fluid and to make sure the needle is still in the synovial space. After injection, the joint is moved gently a few times to aid mixing of the synovial fluid and the suspension. The site is covered with a small sterile dressing. Suitable sites for intra-articular injection are the knee, ankle, wrist, elbow, shoulder, phalangeal, and hip joints. Since difficulty is not infrequently encountered in entering the hip joint, precautions should be taken to avoid any large blood vessels in the area. Joints not suitable for injection are those that are anatomically inaccessible such as the spinal joints and those like the sacroiliac joints that are devoid of synovial space. Treatment failures are most frequently the result of failure to enter the joint space. Little or no benefit follows injection into surrounding tissue. If failures occur when injections into the synovial spaces are certain, as determined by aspiration of fluid, repeated injections are usually futile. If a local anesthetic is used prior to injection of methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension, the anesthetic package insert should be read carefully and all the precautions observed. 2. Bursitis . The area around the injection site is prepared in a sterile way and a wheal at the site made with 1 percent procaine hydrochloride solution. A 20 to 24 gauge needle attached to a dry syringe is inserted into the bursa and the fluid aspirated. The needle is left in place and the aspirating syringe changed for a small syringe containing the desired dose. After injection, the needle is withdrawn and a small dressing applied. 3. Miscellaneous: Ganglion, Tendinitis, Epicondylitis. In the treatment of conditions such as tendinitis or tenosynovitis, care should be taken following application of a suitable antiseptic to the overlying skin to inject the suspension into the tendon sheath rather than into the substance of the tendon. The tendon may be readily palpated when placed on a stretch. When treating conditions such as epicondylitis, the area of greatest tenderness should be outlined carefully and the suspension infiltrated into the area. For ganglia of the tendon sheaths, the suspension is injected directly into the cyst. In many cases, a single injection causes a marked decrease in the size of the cystic tumor and may effect disappearance. The usual sterile precautions should be observed, of course, with each injection. The dose in the treatment of the various conditions of the tendinous or bursal structures listed above varies with the condition being treated and ranges from 4 mg to 30 mg. In recurrent or chronic conditions, repeated injections may be necessary. 4. Injections for Local Effect in Dermatologic Conditions . Following cleansing with an appropriate antiseptic such as 70% alcohol, 20 mg to 60 mg is injected into the lesion. It may be necessary to distribute doses ranging from 20 mg to 40 mg by repeated local injections in the case of large lesions. Care should be taken to avoid injection of sufficient material to cause blanching since this may be followed by a small slough. One to four injections are usually employed, the intervals between injections varying with the type of lesion being treated and the duration of improvement produced by the initial injection. B. Administration for Systemic Effect The intramuscular dosage will vary with the condition being treated. When employed as a temporary substitute for oral therapy, a single injection during each 24-hour period of a dose of the suspension equal to the total daily oral dose of methylprednisolone tablets, USP is usually sufficient. When a prolonged effect is desired, the weekly dose may be calculated by multiplying the daily oral dose by 7 and given as a single intramuscular injection. In pediatric patients, the initial dose of methylprednisolone may vary depending on the specific disease entity being treated. Dosage must be individualized according to the severity of the disease and response of the patient. The recommended dosage may be reduced for pediatric patients, but dosage should be governed by the severity of the condition rather than by strict adherence to the ratio indicated by age or body weight. In patients with the adrenogenital syndrome , a single intramuscular injection of 40 mg every two weeks may be adequate. For maintenance of patients with rheumatoid arthritis , the weekly intramuscular dose will vary from 40 mg to 120 mg. The usual dosage for patients with dermatologic lesions benefited by systemic corticoid therapy is 40 mg to 120 mg of methylprednisolone acetate administered intramuscularly at weekly intervals for one to four weeks. In acute severe dermatitis due to poison ivy, relief may result within 8 to 12 hours following intramuscular administration of a single-dose of 80 mg to 120 mg. In chronic contact dermatitis, repeated injections at 5 to 10 day intervals may be necessary. In seborrheic dermatitis, a weekly dose of 80 mg may be adequate to control the condition. Following intramuscular administration of 80 mg to 120 mg to asthmatic patients, relief may result within 6 to 48 hours and persist for several days to two weeks. If signs of stress are associated with the condition being treated, the dosage of the suspension should be increased. If a rapid hormonal effect of maximum intensity is required, the intravenous administration of highly soluble methylprednisolone sodium succinate is indicated. For the purpose of comparison, the following is the equivalent milligram dose of the various glucocorticoids: Cortisone, 25 Triamcinolone, 4 Hydrocortisone, 20 Paramethasone, 2 Prednisolone, 5 Betamethasone, 0.75 Prednisone, 5 Dexamethasone, 0.75 Methylprednisolone, 4 These dose relationships apply only to oral or intravenous administration of these compounds. When these substances or their derivatives are injected intramuscularly or into joint spaces, their relative properties may be greatly altered. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Table 1 (Recommended Dosages) summarizes the recommended volumes and concentrations of lidocaine hydrochloride injection for various types of anesthetic procedures. When larger volumes are required, only solutions containing epinephrine should be used except in those cases where vasopressor drugs may be contraindicated. Lidocaine hydrochloride injection is not approved for this use (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Dosages should be reduced for children and for the elderly and debilitated patients and patients with cardiac and/or liver disease. Although the incidence of side effects with lidocaine hydrochloride is quite low, caution should be exercised when employing large volumes and concentrations, since the incidence of side effects is directly proportional to the total dose of local anesthetic agent injected. Epidural Anesthesia For epidural anesthesia the following dosage form of lidocaine hydrochloride injection is recommended: 1% without epinephrine 30 mL single dose vials Although this solution is intended specifically for epidural anesthesia, it may also be used for infiltration and peripheral nerve block, provided it is employed as a single dose unit. This solution contains no bacteriostatic agent. In epidural anesthesia, the dosage varies with the number of dermatomes to be anesthetized (generally 2 to 3 mL of the indicated concentration per dermatome). Caudal and Lumbar Epidural Block As a precaution against the adverse experience sometimes observed following unintentional penetration of the subarachnoid space, a test dose such as 2 to 3 mL of 1.5% lidocaine hydrochloride should be administered at least 5 minutes prior to injecting the total volume required for a lumbar or caudal epidural block. Epinephrine, if contained in the test dose (10 to 15 mcg have been suggested), may serve as a warning of unintentional intravascular injection. If injected into a blood vessel, this amount of epinephrine is likely to produce a transient “epinephrine response” within 45 seconds, consisting of an increase in heart rate and systolic blood pressure, circumoral pallor, palpitations and nervousness in the unsedated patient. Patients on beta blockers may not manifest changes in heart rate, but blood pressure monitoring can detect an evanescent rise in systolic blood pressure. In the event of the known injection of a large volume of local anesthetic solution into the subarachnoid space, after suitable resuscitation and if the catheter is in place, consider attempting the recovery of drug by draining a moderate amount of cerebrospinal fluid (such as 10 mL) through the epidural catheter. Directions Povidone iodine: Tear at notch, remove applicator, use only once. As a first aid antiseptic clean affected area apply 1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage, if bandaged let dry. For preoperative patient skin preparation clean area apply to operative site prior to surgery using the applicator DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The volume of the preparation to be used for diluting or dissolving any drug for injection, is dependent on the vehicle concentration, dose and route of administration as recommended by the manufacturer. This parenteral should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The volume of the preparation to be used for diluting or dissolving any drug for injection is dependent on the vehicle concentration, dose and route of administration as recommended by the manufacturer. Directions apply to skin as needed discard after single use
Warnings: Warnings For External Use Only. Do not use • In the eyes • Over large areas of the body or on deep puncture wounds, animal bites, or serious burns • In large quantities, particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas Stop use and ask a doctor if • The condition gets worse • Condition clears up and recurs within a few days • Condition persists for more than 7 days If pregnant or breast feeding Ask a health care professional before use. Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Do not use • On wounds or damaged skin • In large quantities, particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas When using this product • Avoid contact with the eyes • Do not bandage tightly Stop use and ask a doctor if • Condition worsens • Symptoms persist for more than 7 days • Symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings For External Use Only Do not use • On wounds or damaged skin • In large quantities, particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas When using this product • Avoid contact with the eyes • Do not bandage tightly Stop use and ask a doctor if • Condition worsens • Symptoms persist for more than 7 days • Symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. WARNINGS EXCESSIVE DOSAGE, OR SHORT INTERVALS BETWEEN DOSES, CAN RESULT IN HIGH PLASMA LEVELS AND SERIOUS ADVERSE EFFECTS. PATIENTS SHOULD BE INSTRUCTED TO STRICTLY ADHERE TO THE RECOMMENDED DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION GUIDELINES AS SET FORTH IN THIS PACKAGE INSERT. THE MANAGEMENT OF SERIOUS ADVERSE REACTIONS MAY REQUIRE THE USE OF RESUSCITATIVE EQUIPMENT, OXYGEN, AND OTHER RESUSCITATIVE DRUGS. Lidocaine should be used with extreme caution if the mucosa in the area of application has been traumatized, since under such conditions there is the potential for rapid systemic absorption. Life-threatening and fatal events in infants and young children Postmarketing cases of seizures, cardiopulmonary arrest, and death in patients under the age of 3 years have been reported with use of Lidocaine Viscous 2% when it was not administered in strict adherence to the dosing and administration recommendations. In the setting of teething pain, Lidocaine Viscous 2% should generally not be used. For other conditions, the use of the product in patients less than 3 years of age should be limited to those situations where safer alternatives are not available or have been tried but failed. Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use. Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia, patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia, cardiac or pulmonary compromise, infants under 6 months of age, and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition. If local anesthetics must be used in these patients, close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended. Signs of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure, and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and/or abnormal coloration of the blood. Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise; therefore, immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects, including seizures, coma, arrhythmias, and death. Discontinue Lidocaine Viscous 2% and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of the signs and symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care, i.e., oxygen therapy, hydration. A more severe clinical presentation may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. For external use only. Do not use on large areas of the body or on cut, irritated, or swollen skin, on puncture wounds, for more than one week without consulting a doctor. When using this product use only as directed. Read and follow directions on this carton, avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes, do not apply to wounds or damaged, broken, or irritated skin, do not bandage tightly or apply local heat (such as heating pads) or a medicated patch to the area of use, do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics, a transient burning sensation may occur upon application but generally disappears in several days, avoid applying into skin folds. Stop use and ask a doctor if the condition worsens, redness is present, irritation develops, symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days, you experience signs of skin injury, such as pain, swelling, or blistering where the product was applied. WARNINGS LIDOCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE INJECTION, FOR INFILTRATION AND NERVE BLOCK, SHOULD BE EMPLOYED ONLY BY CLINICIANS WHO ARE WELL VERSED IN DIAGNOSIS AND MANAGEMENT OF DOSE-RELATED TOXICITY AND OTHER ACUTE EMERGENCIES THAT MIGHT ARISE FROM THE BLOCK TO BE EMPLOYED AND THEN ONLY AFTER ENSURING THE IMMEDIATE AVAILABILITY OF OXYGEN, OTHER RESUSCITATIVE DRUGS, CARDIOPULMONARY EQUIPMENT, AND THE PERSONNEL NEEDED FOR PROPER MANAGEMENT OF TOXIC REACTIONS AND RELATED EMERGENCIES (See also ADVERSE REACTIONS and PRECAUTIONS ). DELAY IN PROPER MANAGEMENT OF DOSE-RELATED TOXICITY, UNDERVENTILATION FROM ANY CAUSE AND/OR ALTERED SENSITIVITY MAY LEAD TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF ACIDOSIS, CARDIAC ARREST AND, POSSIBLY, DEATH. Intra-articular infusions of local anesthetics following arthroscopic and other surgical procedures is an unapproved use, and there have been post-marketing reports of chondrolysis in patients receiving such infusions. The majority of reported cases of chondrolysis have involved the shoulder joint; cases of gleno-humeral chondrolysis have been described in pediatric and adult patients following intra-articular infusions of local anesthetics with and without epinephrine for periods of 48 to 72 hours. There is insufficient information to determine whether shorter infusion periods are not associated with these findings. The time of onset of symptoms, such as joint pain, stiffness and loss of motion can be variable, but may begin as early as the 2nd month after surgery. Currently, there is no effective treatment for chondrolysis; patients who experienced chondrolysis have required additional diagnostic and therapeutic procedures and some required arthroplasty or shoulder replacement. To avoid intravascular injection, aspiration should be performed before the local anesthetic solution is injected. The needle must be repositioned until no return of blood can be elicited by aspiration. Note, however, that the absence of blood in the syringe does not guarantee that intravascular injection has been avoided. Local anesthetic solutions containing antimicrobial preservatives (e.g., methylparaben) should not be used for epidural or spinal anesthesia because the safety of these agents has not been established with regard to intrathecal injection, either intentional or accidental. Signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and abnormal coloration of the blood. Discontinue lidocaine and/or bupivacaine and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of the symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care, i.e., oxygen therapy, hydration. More severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. WARNINGS Serious Neurologic Adverse Reactions with Epidural Administration Serious neurologic events, some resulting in death, have been reported with epidural injection of corticosteroids. Specific events reported include, but are not limited to, spinal cord infarction, paraplegia, quadriplegia, cortical blindness, and stroke. These serious neurologic events have been reported with and without use of fluoroscopy. The safety and effectiveness of epidural administration of corticosteroids have not been established, and corticosteroids are not approved for this use. General This product is not suitable for multi-dose use. Following administration of the desired dose, any remaining suspension should be discarded. Injection of methylprednisolone acetate may result in dermal and/or subdermal changes forming depressions in the skin at the injection site. In order to minimize the incidence of dermal and subdermal atrophy, care must be exercised not to exceed recommended doses in injections. Multiple small injections into the area of the lesion should be made whenever possible. The technique of intra-articular and intramuscular injection should include precautions against injection or leakage into the dermis. Injection into the deltoid muscle should be avoided because of a high incidence of subcutaneous atrophy. It is critical that, during administration of methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension, appropriate technique be used and care taken to ensure proper placement of drug. Rare instances of anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Increased dosage of rapidly acting corticosteroids is indicated in patients on corticosteroid therapy subjected to any unusual stress before, during, and after the stressful situation. Results from one multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled study with methylprednisolone hemisuccinate, an IV corticosteroid, showed an increase in early (at 2 weeks) and late (at 6 months) mortality in patients with cranial trauma who were determined not to have other clear indications for corticosteroid treatment. High doses of systemic corticosteroids, including methylprednisolone acetate, should not be used for the treatment of traumatic brain injury. Cardio-renal Average and large doses of corticosteroids can cause elevation of blood pressure, salt and water retention, and increased excretion of potassium. These effects are less likely to occur with synthetic derivatives when used in large doses. Dietary salt restriction and potassium supplementation may be necessary. All corticosteroids increase calcium excretion. Literature reports suggest an apparent association between use of corticosteroids and left ventricular free wall rupture after a recent myocardial infarction; therefore, therapy with corticosteroids should be used with great caution in these patients. Endocrine Hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis suppression. Cushing’s syndrome, and Hyperglycemia: Monitor patients for these conditions with chronic use. Corticosteroids can produce reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment. Drug induced secondary adrenocortical insufficiency may be minimized by gradual reduction of dosage. This type of relative insufficiency may persist for months after discontinuation of therapy; therefore, in any situation of stress occurring during that period, hormone therapy should be reinstituted. Infections General Persons who are on corticosteroids are more susceptible to infections than are healthy individuals. There may be decreased resistance and inability to localize infection when corticosteroids are used. Infections with any pathogen (viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan, or helminthic) in any location of the body, may be associated with the use of corticosteroids alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents. These infections may be mild, but can be severe and at times fatal. With increasing doses of corticosteroids, the rate of occurrence of infectious complications increases. Do not use intra-articularly, intrabursally, or for intratendinous administration for local effect in the presence of an acute infection. Corticosteroids may mask some signs of infection and new infections may appear during their use. Fungal Infections Corticosteroids may exacerbate systemic fungal infections and therefore should not be used in the presence of such infections unless they are needed to control drug interactions. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions , Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents ). Special Pathogens Latent disease may be activated or there may be an exacerbation of intercurrent infections due to pathogens, including those caused by Amoeba, Candida, Cryptococcus, Mycobacterium, Nocardia, Pneumocystis, and Toxoplasma. It is recommended that latent amebiasis or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating corticosteroid therapy in any patient who has spent time in the tropics or in any patient with unexplained diarrhea. Similarly, corticosteroids should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides (threadworm) infestation. In such patients, corticosteroid-induced immunosuppression may lead to Strongyloides hyperinfection and dissemination with widespread larval migration, often accompanied by severe enterocolitis and potentially fatal gram-negative septicemia. Corticosteroids should not be used in cerebral malaria. There is currently no evidence of benefit from steroids in this condition. Tuberculosis The use of corticosteroids in active tuberculosis should be restricted to those cases of fulminating or disseminated tuberculosis in which the corticosteroid is used for the management of the disease in conjunction with an appropriate antituberculous regimen. If corticosteroids are indicated in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, close observation is necessary, as reactivation of the disease may occur. During prolonged corticosteroid therapy, these patients should receive chemoprophylaxis. Vaccinations Administration of live or live, attenuated vaccines is contraindicated in patients receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids. Killed or inactivated vaccines may be administered. However, the response to such vaccines cannot be predicted. Immunization procedures may be undertaken in patients who are receiving corticosteroids as replacement therapy (e.g., for Addison’s disease). Viral Infections Chicken pox and measles can have a more serious or even fatal course in pediatric and adult patients on corticosteroids. In pediatric and adult patients who have not had these diseases, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If exposed to chicken pox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If exposed to measles, prophylaxis with immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated (see the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information). If chicken pox develops, treatment with antiviral agents should be considered. Ophthalmic Use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts, glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves, and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to bacteria, fungi, or viruses. The use of systemic corticosteroids is not recommended in the treatment of optic neuritis and may lead to an increase in the risk of new episodes. Corticosteroids should be used cautiously in patients with ocular herpes simplex because of corneal perforation. Corticosteroids should not be used in active ocular herpes simplex. WARNINGS LIDOCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE INJECTION FOR INFILTRATION AND NERVE BLOCK SHOULD BE EMPLOYED ONLY BY CLINICIANS WHO ARE WELL VERSED IN DIAGNOSIS AND MANAGEMENT OF DOSE-RELATED TOXICITY AND OTHER ACUTE EMERGENCIES THAT MIGHT ARISE FROM THE BLOCK TO BE EMPLOYED AND THEN ONLY AFTER ENSURING THE IMMEDIATE AVAILABILITY OF OXYGEN, OTHER RESUSCITATIVE DRUGS, CARDIOPULMONARY EQUIPMENT AND THE PERSONNEL NEEDED FOR PROPER MANAGEMENT OF TOXIC REACTIONS AND RELATED EMERGENCIES (see also ADVERSE REACTIONS and PRECAUTIONS ). Discontinue lidocaine hydrochloride and any other oxidizing agents. The time of onset of symptoms, such as joint pain, stiffness and loss of motion can be variable, but may begin as early as the 2 nd month after surgery. Anaphylactic reactions may occur following administration of lidocaine hydrochloride (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). In the case of severe reaction, discontinue the use of the drug. Warnings: FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY WARNINGS Intravenous administration of Sterile Water for Injection without a solute may result in hemolysis. Warnings For external use only Flammable - keep away from fire or flame Do not use with electrocautery procedures When using this product do not get into eyes apply over large areas of the body in case of deep or puncture wounds, animal bites or serious burns consult a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if condition persists or gets worse or lasts for more than 72 hours do not use longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Lidocaine is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type, or to other components of the solution. CONTRAINDICATIONS Lidocaine is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is contraindicated in: obstetrical paracervical block anesthesia. Its use in this technique has resulted in fetal bradycardia and death. intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier Block) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. patients with a known hypersensitivity to bupivacaine or to any local anesthetic agent of the amide-type or to other components of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection. Obstetrical paracervical block anesthesia. ( 4 ) Intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier Block). ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to bupivacaine or to any local anesthetic agent of the amide-type or to other components of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection. ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to the product and its constituents. Intramuscular corticosteroid preparations are contraindicated for idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura. Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is contraindicated for intrathecal administration. This formulation of methylprednisolone acetate has been associated with reports of severe medical events when administered by this route. Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is contraindicated in systemic fungal infections, except when administered as an intra-articular injection for localized joint conditions (see WARNINGS : Infections, Fungal Infections ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Lidocaine hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type. CONTRAINDICATIONS Sterile Water for Injection, USP must be made approximately isotonic prior to use.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Patients who are administered local anesthetics are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following drugs, which could include other local anesthetics: Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia: Class Examples Nitrates/Nitrites nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, nitric oxide, nitrous oxide Local anesthetics benzocaine, lidocaine, bupivacaine, mepivacaine, tetracaine, prilocaine, procaine, articaine, ropivacaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide, flutamide, rasburicase, ifosfamide, hydroxyurea Antibiotics dapsone, sulfonamides, nitrofurantoin, para-aminosalicylic acid Antimalarials chloroquine, primaquine Anticonvulsants phenytoin, sodium valproate, phenobarbital Other drugs acetaminophen, metoclopramide, sulfasalazine, quinine Clinically Significant Drug Interactions: The administration of local anesthetic solutions containing epinephrine or norepinephrine to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe prolonged hypertension. Phenothiazines and butyrophenones may reduce or reverse the pressor effect of epinephrine. Concurrent use of these agents should generally be avoided. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful patient monitoring is essential. Concurrent administration of vasopressor drugs (for the treatment of hypotension related to obstetric blocks) and ergot-type oxytoxic drugs may cause severe persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents. Patients that are administered local anesthetics may be at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following oxidizing agents: Class Examples Nitrates/Nitrites nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, nitric oxide, nitrous oxide Local anesthetics benzocaine, lidocaine, bupivacaine, mepivacaine, tetracaine, prilocaine, procaine, articaine, ropivacaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide, flutamide, rasburicase, ifosfamide, hydroxyurea Antibiotics dapsone, sulfonamides, nitrofurantoin, para-aminosalicylic acid Antimalarials chloroquine, primaquine Anticonvulsants phenytoin, sodium valproate, phenobarbital Other drugs acetaminophen, metoclopramide, sulfa drugs (i.e., sulfasalazine), quinine 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Local Anesthetics : The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. Monitor for neurologic and cardiovascular effects when additional local anesthetics are administered. ( 7.1 ) Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants : Administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. ( 5.6 , 7.2 ) Ergot-Type Oxytocic Drugs : Concurrent administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and ergot-type oxytocic drugs may cause severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents. ( 5.6 , 7.3 ) Nonselective Beta-Adrenergic Antagonists : Administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection (containing a vasoconstrictor) in patients receiving nonselective beta-adrenergic antagonists may cause severe hypertension and bradycardia. ( 5.6 , 7.4 ) Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia : Patients are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to nitrates, nitrites, local anesthetics, antineoplastic agents, antibiotics, antimalarials, anticonvulsants, and other drugs. ( 7.5 ) Potent Inhalation Anesthetics : Serious dose-related cardiac arrhythmias may occur if preparations containing a vasoconstrictor such as epinephrine are used in patients during or following the administration of potent inhalation anesthetics. ( 5.13 , 7.6 ) 7.1 Local Anesthetics The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. If coadministration of other local anesthetics with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection cannot be avoided, monitor patients for neurologic and cardiovascular effects related to local anesthetic systemic toxicity [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants The administration Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors, or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful monitoring of the patient's hemodynamic status is essential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . 7.3 Ergot-Type Oxytocic Drugs Concurrent administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and ergot-type oxytocic drugs may cause severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents. Avoid use of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine concomitantly with ergot-type oxytocic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. 7.4 Nonselective Beta-Adrenergic Antagonists Administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection (containing a vasoconstrictor) in patients receiving nonselective beta-adrenergic antagonists may cause severe hypertension and bradycardia. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful monitoring of the patient's blood pressure and heart rate is essential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. 7.5 Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia Patients who are administered Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to following drugs, which could include other local anesthetics [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia: Class Examples Nitrates/Nitrites nitric oxide, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, nitrous oxide Local anesthetics articaine, benzocaine, bupivacaine, lidocaine, mepivacaine, prilocaine, procaine, ropivacaine, tetracaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide, flutamide, hydroxyurea, isofamide, rasburicase Antibiotics dapsone, nitrofurantoin, para-aminosalicylic acid, sulfonamides Antimalarials chloroquine, primaquine Anticonvulsants phenobarbital, phenytoin, sodium valproate Other drugs acetaminophen, metoclopramide, quinine, sulfasalazine 7.6 Potent Inhalation Anesthetics Serious dose-related cardiac arrhythmias may occur if preparations containing a vasoconstrictor such as epinephrine (e.g., Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection) are used in patients during or following the administration of potent inhalation anesthetics [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] . 7.7 Phenothiazines and Butyrophenones Phenothiazines and butyrophenones may reduce or reverse the pressor effect of epinephrine. Concurrent use of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and these agents should generally be avoided. Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide : Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents: When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium depleting agents (e.g., amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics : Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions , Hepatic Enzyme Inhibitors ). Anticholinesterases: Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants , oral : Co-administration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics: Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentration, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular drugs: Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine: Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of oral corticosteroids. Cyclosporine: Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis glycosides: Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, including oral contraceptives: Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin): Drugs which induce cytochrome P450 3A4 enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Hepatic Enzyme Inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin and troleandomycin): Drugs which inhibit cytochrome P450 3A4 have the potential to result in increased plasma concentrations of corticosteroids. Ketoconazole : Ketoconazole has been reported to significantly decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) : Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Skin tests : Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Vaccines : Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS : Infections, Vaccinations ). Clinically Significant Drug Interactions The administration of local anesthetic solutions containing epinephrine or norepinephrine to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. Concurrent administration of vasopressor drugs (for the treatment of hypotension related to obstetric blocks) and ergot-type oxytocic drugs may cause severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents.

=== DICLOFENAC SODIUM ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Arthritis pain reliever Purpose Topical Analgesic
Indications: Uses for the temporary relief of arthritis pain ONLY in the following areas: hand, wrist, elbow (upper body areas) foot, ankle, knee (lower body areas) this product may take up to 7 days to work for arthritis pain; it is not for immediate relief. If no pain relief in 7 days, stop use. Uses • for the temporary relief of arthritis pain ONLY in the following areas: • hand, wrist, elbow (upper body areas) • foot, ankle, knee (lower body areas) • this product may take up to 7 days to work for arthritis pain; it is not for immediate relief. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Diclofenac sodium topical solution is indicated for the treatment of the pain of osteoarthritis of the knee(s). Diclofenac sodium topical solution is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for the treatment of the pain of osteoarthritis of the knee(s). ( 1 ) If no pain relief in 7 days, stop use 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Diclofenac sodium topical solution, USP is indicated for the treatment of signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis of the knee(s) (1). Diclofenac sodium topical solution is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for the treatment of signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis of the knee(s). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use diclofenac sodium. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS; Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation ). Diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated: for relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis for relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis for acute or long-term use in the relief of signs and symptoms of ankylosing spondylitis Uses for the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with simple backache, arthritis, strains and sprains
Dosage: Directions Use up to 21 days unless directed by your doctor Not for strains, sprains, bruises or sports injuries. This product has not been shown to work for these types of injuries. Daily Per Dose For your arthritis pain: Use 4 times per day every day Do not use on more than 2 body areas at the same time Use ENCLOSED DOSING CARD to measure a dose For each upper body area (hand, wrist, or elbow) – Squeeze out 2.25 inches (2 grams) For each lower body area (foot, ankle or knee) –Squeeze out 4.5 inches (4 grams) Read the enclosed User Guide for complete instructions: use only as directed do not use more than directed or for longer than directed apply only to clean, dry skin that does not have any cuts, open wounds, infections or rashes do not apply in same area as any other product do not apply with external heat such as heating pad do not apply a bandage over the treated area store ENCLOSED DOSING CARD with your Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel, 1% product. The dosing card is re-usable. Daily Per Dose For your arthritis pain: • Use 4 times per day every day • Do not use on more than 2 body areas at the same time Use ENCLOSED DOSING CARD to measure a dose • For each upper body area (hand, wrist, or elbow) – Squeeze out 2.25 inches (2 grams) • For each lower body area (foot, ankle or knee) – Squeeze out 4.5 inches (4 grams) Read the enclosed User Guide for complete instructions: • use only as directed • do not use more than directed or for longer than directed • apply only to clean, dry skin that does not have any cuts, open wounds, infections or rashes • do not apply in the same area as any other product • do not apply with external heat such as heating pad • do not apply a bandage over the treated area • store ENCLOSED DOSING CARD with your Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel, 1% product. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals. The recommended dose is 2 pump actuations on each painful knee, 2 times a day. ( 2 ) Apply diclofenac sodium topical solution, to clean, dry skin. ( 2.1 ) Dispense 40 mg (2 pump actuations) directly onto the knee or first into the hand and then onto the knee. Spread evenly around front, back and sides of the knee. ( 2.1 ) Wash hands completely after administering the product. ( 2.2 ) Wait until the area is completely dry before covering with clothing or applying sunscreen, insect repellent, cosmetics, topical medications, or other substances. ( 2.2 ) Until the treated knee(s) is completely dry, avoid skin-to-skin contact between other people and the treated knee(s). ( 2.2 ) Do not get diclofenac sodium topical solution in your eyes, nose, or mouth ( 2.2 ). 2.1 General Dosing Instructions Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. For relief of the pain of osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee(s), the recommended dose is 40 mg of diclofenac sodium (2 pump actuations) on each painful knee, 2 times a day. Apply diclofenac sodium topical solution to clean, dry skin. The pump must be primed before first use. Instruct patients to fully depress the pump mechanism (actuation) 4 times while holding the bottle in an upright position. This portion should be discarded to ensure proper priming of the pump. No further priming of the bottle should be required. After the priming procedure, diclofenac sodium topical solution is properly dispensed by completely depressing the pump 2 times to achieve the prescribed dosage for one knee. Deliver the product directly into the palm of the hand and then apply evenly around front, back, and sides of the knee. Application of diclofenac sodium topical solution in an amount exceeding or less than the recommended dose has not been studied and is therefore not recommended. 2.2 Special Precautions Avoid showering/bathing for at least 30 minutes after the application of diclofenac sodium topical solution to the treated knee. Wash and dry hands after use. Do not apply diclofenac sodium topical solution to open wounds. Avoid contact of diclofenac sodium topical solution with eyes and mucous membranes. Do not apply external heat and/or occlusive dressings to treated knees. Avoid wearing clothing over the diclofenac sodium topical solution-treated knee(s) until the treated knee is dry. Protect the treated knee(s) from natural and artificial sunlight. Wait until the treated area is dry before applying sunscreen, insect repellant, lotion, moisturizer, cosmetics, or other topical medication to the same knee you have just treated with diclofenac sodium topical solution. Until the treated knee(s) is completely dry, avoid skin-to-skin contact between other people and the treated knee(s). Do not use combination therapy with diclofenac sodium topical solution and an oral NSAID unless the benefit outweighs the risk and conduct periodic laboratory evaluations. Daily Per Dose For your arthritis pain: Use 4 times per day every day Do not use on more than 2 body areas at the same time Use ENCLOSED DOSING CARD to measure a dose For each upper body area (hand, wrist, or elbow) – Squeeze out 2.25 inches (2 grams) For each lower body area (foot, ankle or knee) –Squeeze out 4.5 inches (4 grams) Read the enclosed User Guide for complete instructions: use only as directed do not use more than directed or for longer than directed apply only to clean, dry skin that does not have any cuts, open wounds, infections or rashes do not apply in same area as any other product do not apply with external heat such as heating pad do not apply a bandage over the treated area store ENCLOSED DOSING CARD with your Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel, 1% Arthritis Pain. The recommended dose is 40 drops on each painful knee, 4 times a day. ( 2 ) Apply diclofenac sodium topical solution to clean, dry skin. ( 2.1 ) Dispense diclofenac sodium topical solution 10 drops at a time either directly onto the knee or first into the hand and then onto the knee. Spread diclofenac sodium topical solution evenly around front, back and sides of the knee. Repeat this procedure until 40 drops have been applied and the knee is completely covered with solution. Wait until the area is completely dry before covering with clothing or applying sunscreen, insect repellent, cosmetics, topical medications, or other substances. ( 2.2 ) Do not get diclofenac sodium topical solution in your eyes, nose or mouth. 2.1 General Dosing Instructions Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [ see Warning and Precautions (5.2) ]. For the relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis of the knee(s), the recommended dose is 40 drops per knee, 4 times a day. To avoid spillage, dispense diclofenac sodium topical solution 10 drops at a time either directly onto the knee or first into the hand and then onto the knee. To treat the other knee, if symptomatic, repeat the procedure. Do not apply diclofenac sodium topical Solution USP, to open wounds. Avoid wearing clothing over the diclofenac sodium topical solution treated knee(s) until the treated knee is dry. Protect the treated knee(s) from natural or artificial sunlight. Do not use combination therapy with diclofenac sodium and an oral NSAID unless the benefit outweighs the risk and conduct periodic laboratory evaluations. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of diclofenac sodium delayed release tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use diclofenac sodium. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNING; Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation ). After observing the response to initial therapy with diclofenac sodium, the dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient’s needs. For the relief of osteoarthritis, the recommended dosage is 100 to 150 mg/day in divided doses (50 mg twice a day or three times a day, or 75 mg twice a day). For the relief of rheumatoid arthritis, the recommended dosage is 150 to 200 mg/day in divided doses (50 mg three times a day. or four times a day, or 75 mg twice a day.). For the relief of ankylosing spondylitis, the recommended dosage is 100 to 125 mg/day, administered as 25 mg four times a day, with an extra 25-mg dose at bedtime if necessary. Different formulations of diclofenac [diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets; diclofenac sodium extended-release tablets); diclofenac potassium immediate-release tablets] are not necessarily bioequivalent even if the milligram strength is the same. Directions Use up to 21 days unless directed by your doctor. Not for strains, sprains, bruises or sports injuries.This product has not been shown to work for these types of injuries. Daily Per Dose For your arthritis pain: Use 4 times per day every day Do not use on more than 2 body areas at the same time Use ENCLOSED DOSING CARD to measure a dose For each upper body area (hand, wrist, or elbow) – Squeeze out 2.25 inches (2 grams) For each lower body area (foot, ankle, or knee) – Squeeze out 4.5 inches (4 grams) Read the enclosed User Guide for complete instructions: use only as directed do not use more than directed or for longer than directed apply only to clean, dry skin that does not have any cuts, open wounds, infections, or rashes do not apply in same areas as any other product do not apply with external heat such as a heating pad do not apply a bandage over the treated area store ENCLOSED DOSING CARD with your Diclofenac Sodium Topical Gel, 1%. Directions Rotate pump’s spout counter-clockwise slightly to unlock; clockwise to lock. Before using on children under 18 years of age, consult a physician. Apply sparingly to affected area not more than 4 times daily. However, for first use, apply to small area to test for sensitivity or skin reaction. Gently massage into the skin until fully absorbed. Wash hands with soap and water thoroughly after each application to avoid spreading to the eyes or other sensitive mucous membranes
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Allergy alert: Diclofenac may cause a severe allergic reaction, especially in people allergic to aspirin. Symptoms may include: hives asthma (wheezing) skin reddening blisters facial swelling shock rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Liver warning: This product contains diclofenac. Liver damage may occur if you apply more or for a longer time than directed when using other drugs containing diclofenac Stomach bleeding warning: This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is small but higher if you are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product apply more or for longer than directed Heart attack and stroke warning: NSAIDs, except aspirin, increase the risk of heart attack, heart failure, and stroke. These can be fatal. The risk is higher if you use more than directed or for longer than directed. Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever or to a fever reducer for strains, sprains, bruises or sports injuries. This product has not been shown to work for these types of injuries. right before or after heart surgery on more than 2 body areas at the same time in the eyes, nose or mouth Ask a doctor before us if you have problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers stomach bleeding warning applies to you you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, kidney disease, asthma, or had a stroke you are taking a diuretic you are under age 18 years. It is not known if this drug works or is safe in children under age 18 years. Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are under a doctor’s care for any serious condition taking any other drug When using this product avoid contact with eyes, nose, or mouth if eye contact occurs, rinse thoroughly with water Stop use and ask a doctor if pain gets worse or lasts more than 21 days redness or swelling is present in the painful area fever occurs skin irritation occurs any new symptoms appear. These could be signs of a serious condition. you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: feel faint have bloody or black stools vomit blood have stomach pain that does not get better you have symptoms of heart problems or stroke: chest pain trouble breathing leg swelling weakness in one part or side of body slurred speech If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. It is especially important not to use this product during the last 3 months of pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Symptoms may include: • hives • asthma (wheezing) • skin reddening • blisters • facial swelling • shock • rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Liver damage may occur if you apply • more or for a longer time than directed • when using other drugs containing diclofenac Stomach bleeding warning: This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is small but higher if you • are age 60 or older • have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems • take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug • take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) • have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product • apply more or for longer than directed Heart attack and stroke warning: NSAIDs, except aspirin, increase the risk of heart attack, heart failure, and stroke. The risk is higher is you use more than directed or for longer than directed. Do not use • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever or to a fever reducer • for strains, sprains, bruises or sports injuries. • right before or after heart surgery • on more than 2 body areas at the same time • in the eyes, nose or mouth Ask a doctor before use if • you have problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers • stomach bleeding warning applies to you • you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn • you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, kidney disease, asthma, or had a stroke • you are taking a diuretic • you are under age 18 years. Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • under a doctor’s care for any serious condition • taking any other drug When using this product • avoid contact with eyes, nose, or mouth • if eye contact occurs, rinse thoroughly with water Stop use and ask a doctor if • pain gets worse or lasts more than 21 days • redness or swelling is present in the painful area • fever occurs • skin irritation occurs • any new symptoms appear. • you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: • feel faint • have bloody or black stools • vomit blood • have stomach pain that does not get better • you have symptoms of heart problems or stroke: • chest pain • trouble breathing • leg swelling • weakness in one part or side of body • slurred speech If pregnant or breast feeding, ask a health professional before use. It is especially important not to use diclofenac at 20 weeks or later in pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery. The chance is small but higher if you are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug take other drugs containing prescription or non-prescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product apply more or for longer than directed Heart attack and stroke warning: NSAIDs, except aspirin, increase the risk of heart attack, heart failure, and stroke. WARNINGS Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to 3 years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, including myocardial infarction (MI), and stroke, which can be fatal. Based on available data, it is unclear that the risk for CV thrombotic events is similar for all NSAIDs. The relative increase in serious CV thrombotic events over baseline conferred by NSAID use appears to be similar in those with and without known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease. However, patients with known CV disease or risk factors had a higher absolute incidence of excess serious CV thrombotic events, due to their increased baseline rate. Some observational studies found that this increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events began as early as the first weeks of treatment. The increase in CV thrombotic risk has been observed most consistently at higher doses. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in NSAID-treated patients, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, throughout the entire treatment course, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Patients should be informed about the symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as diclofenac, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events (see WARNING; Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation ). Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery Two large, controlled, clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10 to 14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. NSAIDs are contraindicated in the setting of CABG (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Post-MI Patients Observational studies conducted in the Danish National Registry have demonstrated that patients treated with NSAIDs in the post-MI period were at increased risk of reinfarction, CV-related death, and all-cause mortality beginning in the first week of treatment. In this same cohort, the incidence of death in the first year post-MI was 20 per 100 person years in NSAID-treated patients compared to 12 per 100 person years in non-NSAID exposed patients. Although the absolute rate of death declined somewhat after the first year post-MI, the increased relative risk of death in NSAID users persisted over at least the next four years of follow-up. Avoid the use of diclofenac sodium in patients with a recent MI unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If diclofenac sodium is used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia. Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation NSAIDs, including diclofenac, cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events, including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDs. Only one in five patients, who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy, is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occurred in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3 to 6 months, and in about 2% to 4% of patients treated for one year. However, even short-term therapy is not without risk. Risk Factors for GI Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or GI bleeding who use NSAIDs had a greater than 10-fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients without these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk of GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include longer duration of NSAID therapy, concomitant use of oral corticosteroids, aspirin, anticoagulants, or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs); smoking, use of alcohol, older age, and poor general health status. Most postmarketing reports of fatal GI events occurred in elderly or debilitated patients. Additionally, patients with advanced liver disease and/or coagulopathy are at increased risk for GI bleeding. Strategies to Minimize the GI Risks in NSAID-treated patients Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest possible duration. Avoid administration of more than one NSAID at a time Avoid use in patients at higher risk unless benefits are expected to outweigh the increased risk of bleeding. For such patients, as well as those with active GI bleeding, consider alternate therapies other than NSAIDs. Remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during NSAID therapy. If a serious GI adverse event is suspected, promptly initiate evaluation and treatment, and discontinue diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. In the setting of concomitant use of low-dose aspirin for cardiac prophylaxis, monitor patients more closely for evidence of GI bleeding (see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ). Hepatotoxicity In clinical trials of diclofenac-containing products, meaningful elevations (i.e., more than 3 times the upper limit of normal [ULN]) of aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (also known as SGOT) were observed in about 2% of approximately 5700 patients at some time during diclofenac treatment (alanine aminotransferase [ALT] was not measured in all studies). In a large, open-label, controlled trial of 3700 patients treated with oral diclofenac sodium for 2 to 6 months, patients were monitored first at 8 weeks and 1200 patients were monitored again at 24 weeks. Meaningful elevations of ALT and/or AST occurred in about 4% of patients and included marked elevations (greater than 8 times the ULN) in about 1% of the 3700 patients. In that open-label study, a higher incidence of borderline (less than 3 times the ULN), moderate (3 to 8 times the ULN), and marked (greater than 8 times the ULN) elevations of ALT or AST was observed in patients receiving diclofenac when compared to other NSAIDs. Elevations in transaminases were seen more frequently in patients with osteoarthritis than in those with rheumatoid arthritis. Almost all meaningful elevations in transaminases were detected before patients became symptomatic. Abnormal tests occurred during the first 2 months of therapy with diclofenac in 42 of the 51 patients in all trials who developed marked transaminase elevations. In postmarketing reports, cases of drug-induced hepatotoxicity have been reported in the first month, and in some cases, the first 2 months of therapy, but can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac. Postmarketing surveillance has reported cases of severe hepatic reactions, including liver necrosis, jaundice, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, and liver failure. Some of these reported cases resulted in fatalities or liver transplantation. In a European retrospective population-based, case-controlled study, 10 cases of diclofenac associated drug- induced liver injury with current use compared with non-use of diclofenac were associated with a statistically significant 4-fold adjusted odds ratio of liver injury. In this particular study, based on an overall number of 10 cases of liver injury associated with diclofenac, the adjusted odds ratio increased further with female gender, doses of 150 mg or more, and duration of use for more than 90 days. Physicians should measure transaminases at baseline and periodically in patients receiving long-term therapy with diclofenac, because severe hepatotoxicity may develop without a prodrome of distinguishing symptoms. The optimum times for making the first and subsequent transaminase measurements are not known. Based on clinical trial data and postmarketing experiences, transaminases should be monitored within 4 to 8 weeks after initiating treatment with diclofenac. However, severe hepatic reactions can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac. If abnormal liver tests persist or worsen, if clinical signs and/or symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dark urine, etc.), diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets should be discontinued immediately. Inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity (e.g., nausea, fatigue, lethargy, diarrhea, pruritus, jaundice, right upper quadrant tenderness, and "flu-like" symptoms). If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.), discontinue diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets immediately, and perform a clinical evaluation of the patient. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse liver related event in patients treated with diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Exercise caution when prescribing diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets with concomitant drugs that are known to be potentially hepatotoxic (e.g., acetaminophen, antibiotics, anti- epileptics). Hypertension NSAIDs, including diclofenac sodium, can lead to new onset of hypertension or worsening of preexisting hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Patients taking angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, thiazides diuretics, or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs (see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ). Monitor blood pressure (BP) during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy. Heart Failure and Edema The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists’ Collaboration meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately 2-fold increase in hospitalization for heart failure in COX-2 selective-treated patients and nonselective NSAID-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. In a Danish National Registry study of patients with heart failure, NSAID use increased the risk of MI, hospitalization for heart failure, and death. Additionally, fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients treated with NSAIDs. Use of diclofenac may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions (e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers [ARBs]) (see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ). Avoid the use of diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets in patients with severe heart failure unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure. If diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets are used in patients with severe heart failure, monitor patients for signs of worsening heart failure. Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia Renal Toxicity Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of an NSAID may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, dehydration, hypovolemia, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics and ACE inhibitors or ARBs, and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of diclofenac sodium in patients with advanced renal disease. The renal effects of diclofenac sodium may hasten the progression of renal dysfunction in patients with preexisting renal disease. Correct volume status in dehydrated or hypovolemic patients prior to initiating diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets. Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia during use of diclofenac sodium (see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ). Avoid the use of diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets in patients with advanced renal disease unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening renal function. If diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets are used in patients with advanced renal disease, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. Hyperkalemia Increases in serum potassium concentration, including hyperkalemia, have been reported with use of NSAIDs, even in some patients without renal impairment. In patients with normal renal function, these effects have been attributed to a hyporeninemic-hypoaldosteronism state. Anaphylactic Reactions Diclofenac has been associated with anaphylactic reactions in patients with and without known hypersensitivity to diclofenac and in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS; Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity ). Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity A subpopulation of patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma, which may include chronic rhinosinusitis complicated by nasal polyps; severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm; and/or intolerance to aspirin and other NSAIDs. Because cross-reactivity between aspirin and other NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, diclofenac sodium is contraindicated in patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). When diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets are used in patients with preexisting asthma (without known aspirin sensitivity), monitor patients for changes in the signs and symptoms of asthma. Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including diclofenac, can cause serious skin adverse reactions, such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens- Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions and to discontinue the use of diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). NSAIDs, including diclofenac sodium, can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. NSAIDs can also cause fixed drug eruption (FDE). FDE may present as a more severe variant known as generalized bullous fixed drug eruption (GBFDE), which can be lifethreatening. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions and discontinue the use of diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) has been reported in patients taking NSAIDs, such as diclofenac sodium. Some of these events have been fatal or life-threatening. DRESS typically, although not exclusively, presents with fever, rash, lymphadenopathy, and/or facial swelling. Other clinical manifestations may include hepatitis, nephritis, hematological abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis. Sometimes symptoms of DRESS may resemble an acute viral infection. Eosinophilia is often present. Because this disorder is variable in its presentation, other organ systems not noted here may be involved. It is important to note that early manifestations of hypersensitivity, such as fever or lymphadenopathy, may be present even though rash is not evident. If such signs or symptoms are present, discontinue diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets and evaluate the patient immediately. Fetal Toxicity Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus Avoid use of NSAIDs, including diclofenac sodium, in pregnant women at about 30-weeks’ gestation and later. NSAIDs, including diclofenac sodium, increase the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus at approximately this gestational age. Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment Use of NSAIDs, including diclofenac sodium, at about 20-weeks’ gestation or later in pregnancy may cause fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios and, in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. These adverse outcomes are seen, on average, after days to weeks of treatment, although oligohydramnios has been infrequently reported as soon as 48 hours after NSAID initiation. Oligohydramnios is often, but not always, reversible with treatment discontinuation. Complications of prolonged oligohydramnios may, for example, include limb contractures and delayed lung maturation. In some postmarketing cases of impaired neonatal renal function, invasive procedures, such as exchange transfusion or dialysis were required. If NSAID treatment is necessary between about 20 weeks and 30-weeks’ gestation, limit diclofenac sodium use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. Consider ultrasound monitoring of amniotic fluid if diclofenac sodium treatment extends beyond 48 hours. Discontinue diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice (see PRECAUTIONS; Pregnancy ). Hematologic Toxicity Anemia has occurred in NSAID-treated patients. This may be due to occult or gross blood loss, fluid retention, or an incompletely described effect on erythropoiesis. If a patient treated with diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets, has any signs or symptoms of anemia, monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit. NSAIDs, including diclofenac sodium, may increase the risk of bleeding events. Co-morbid conditions, such as coagulation disorders, concomitant use of warfarin, other anticoagulants, antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase this risk. Monitor these patients for signs of bleeding (see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ). Warnings For external use only. Allergy alert : Diclofenac may cause a severe allergic reaction, especially in people allergic to aspirin. Liver damage may occur if you apply: more or for a longer time than directed when using other drugs containing diclofenac Stomach bleeding warning: This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is small but higher if you: are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product apply more or for longer than directed Heart attack and stroke warning: NSAIDs, except aspirin, increase the risk of heart attack, heart failure, and stroke. right before or after heart surgery on more than 2 body areas at the same time in the eyes, nose, or mouth Ask a doctor before use if you have problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers stomach bleeding warning applies to you you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, kidney disease, asthma, or had a stroke you are taking a diuretic you are under the age of 18 years. It is not known if this drug works or is safe in children under the age of 18 years. Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if under a doctor’s care for any serious condition taking any other drug When using this product avoid contact with eyes, nose, or mouth if eye contact occurs, rinse thoroughly with water Stop use and ask a doctor if pain gets worse or lasts more than 21 days redness or swelling is present in the painful area fever occurs skin irritation occurs any new symptoms appear. you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: feel faint have bloody or black stools vomit blood have stomach pain that does not get better you have symptoms of heart problems or stroke: chest pain trouble breathing leg swelling weakness in one part of side of body slurred speech If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away Warnings For external use only This is not a face cream. Do not apply to the face. Do not use if allergic to chili peppers or if past allergic reaction to capsaicin. Do not apply to wounds or damaged, broken, sunburned, chapped or irritated skin. Do not bandage tightly. Do not apply within 1 hour before or after bath, shower, hot tub, sauna or vigorous exercise. Warm water, perspiration or open pores can intensify the impact of this product and cause a burning sensation. Do not use with heating pad, hot water bottle or other source of heat. Doing so can increase risk of serious burns. When using this product do not get into eyes and avoid contact with other mucous membranes. If contact occurs or if pain, discomfort or skin redness occurs, continually rinse with cool water and seek medical help. Discontinue use and consult a doctor if condition worsens or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days. Stop using and get immediate medical attention if experience burning, pain, swelling or blistering of the skin. Rare cases of severe burning or blistering have been reported. If pregnant, breast-feeding or any medical conditions exist, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children and pets. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. If inhaled, remove to fresh air. If breathing is difficult, get medical attention immediately.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Diclofenac sodium topical solution is contraindicated in the following patients: Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to diclofenac or any components of the drug product [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.9 ) ] History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.8 ) ] In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ] Known hypersensitivity to diclofenac or any components of the drug product. ( 4 ) History of asthma, urticaria, or allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. ( 4 ) In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Diclofenac sodium topical solution, USP is contraindicated in the following patients: Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to diclofenac or any components of the drug product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7 , 5.9) ]. History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7 , 5.8) ] . In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Known hypersensitivity to diclofenac or any components of the drug product. ( 4 ) In the setting of CABG surgery ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets are contraindicated in the following patients: Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to diclofenac or any components of the drug product (see WARNINGS; Anaphylactic Reactions, Serious Skin Reactions ). Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients (see WARNINGS; Anaphylactic Reaction, Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity ). In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery (see WARNINGS; Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events ).
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See Table 3 for clinically significant drug interactions with diclofenac. Table 3: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Diclofenac Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: Diclofenac and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. The concomitant use of diclofenac and anticoagulants have increased the risk of serious bleeding compared to the use of either drug alone. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Case-control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] Aspirin Clinical Impact: Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Intervention: Concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )]. Diclofenac sodium topical solution is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact: NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] . When these drugs are administered concomitantly, patients should be adequately hydrated. Assess renal function at the beginning of the concomitant treatment and periodically thereafter. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. This effect has been attributed to the NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ]. Digoxin Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of diclofenac with digoxin has been reported to increase the serum concentration and prolong the half-life of digoxin. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Lithium Clinical Impact: NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%, and the renal clearance decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction) Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. Concomitant use of oral NSAIDs with diclofenac sodium topical solution has been evaluated in one Phase 3 controlled trial and in combination with oral diclofenac, compared to oral diclofenac alone, resulted in a higher rate of rectal hemorrhage (3% vs. less than 1%), and more frequent abnormal creatinine (12% vs. 7%), urea (20% vs. 12%) and hemoglobin (13% vs. 9%). Intervention: The concomitant use of diclofenac with other NSAIDs or salicylates is not recommended. Do not use combination therapy with diclofenac sodium topical solution and an oral NSAID unless the benefit outweighs the risk and conduct periodic laboratory evaluations. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. NSAIDs with short elimination half-lives (e.g., diclofenac, indomethacin) should be avoided for a period of two days before, the day of, and two days following administration of pemetrexed. In the absence of data regarding potential interaction between pemetrexed and NSAIDs with longer half-lives (e.g., meloxicam, nabumetone), patients taking these NSAIDs should interrupt dosing for at least five days before, the day of, and two days following pemetrexed administration. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g. warfarin, aspirin, SSRIs/SNRIs): Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly using diclofenac sodium topical solution with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. Concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended ( 7 ) ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARB) or Beta-Blockers: Concomitant use with diclofenac sodium topical solution may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Monitor blood pressure ( 7 ) ACE Inhibitors and ARBs: Concomitant use with diclofenac sodium topical solution in elderly, volume depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high-risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function ( 7 ) Diuretics: NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. Monitor patients to assure diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects ( 7 ) Digoxin: Concomitant use with diclofenac sodium topical solution can increase serum concentration and prolong half-life of digoxin. Monitor serum digoxin levels ( 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See Table 2 for clinically significant drug interactions with diclofenac. Table 2: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Diclofenac Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: Diclofenac and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of diclofenac sodium with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] Aspirin Clinical Impact: Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Intervention: Concomitant use of diclofenac sodium and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . Diclofenac sodium is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction) Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac sodium and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Concomitant use of oral NSAIDs with diclofenac sodium has been evaluated in one Phase 3 controlled trial and in combination with oral diclofenac, compared to oral diclofenac alone, resulted in a higher rate of rectal hemorrhage (3% vs. Do not use combination therapy with diclofenac sodium and an oral NSAID unless the benefit outweighs the risk and conduct periodic laboratory evaluations. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac sodium and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., warfarin, aspirin, SSRIs/SNRIs): Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly using diclofenac sodium with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. Concomitant use of diclofenac sodium and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended ( 7 ) ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARB), or Beta-Blockers: Concomitant use with diclofenac sodium may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Monitor blood pressure ( 7 ) ACE Inhibitors and ARBs: Concomitant use with diclofenac sodium in elderly, volume depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function ( 7 ) Diuretics: NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. Monitor patients to assure diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects ( 7 ) Digoxin : Concomitant use with diclofenac sodium can increase serum concentration and prolong half-life of digoxin. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] Intervention: Concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] Diclofenac sodium topical solution is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium topical solution, and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels.

=== FAMOTIDINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Acid reducer
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Famotidine tablets are indicated in adult and pediatric patients 40 kg and greater for the treatment of: • active duodenal ulcer (DU). • active gastric ulcer (GU). • symptomatic nonerosive gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). • erosive esophagitis due to GERD, diagnosed by biopsy. Famotidine tablets are indicated in adults for the: • treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions (e.g., Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, multiple endocrine neoplasias). • reduction of the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence. Famotidine tablets are a histamine-2 (H 2 ) receptor antagonist indicated ( 1 ): In adult and pediatric patients 40 kg and greater for the treatment of: • active duodenal ulcer (DU). • active gastric ulcer. In adults for the: • treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions (e.g., Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, multiple endocrine neoplasias). • reduction of the risk of DU recurrence. Uses relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain food and beverages 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Famotidine tablets are indicated in adult and pediatric patients 40 kg and greater for the treatment of: active duodenal ulcer (DU). active gastric ulcer (GU). symptomatic nonerosive gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). erosive esophagitis due to GERD, diagnosed by biopsy. Famotidine tablets are indicated in adults for the: treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions (e.g., Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, multiple endocrine neoplasias). reduction of the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence. Famotidine tablets are a histamine-2 (H 2 ) receptor antagonist indicated (1 ): In adult and pediatric patients 40 kg and greater for the treatment of: active duodenal ulcer (DU). active gastric ulcer. In adults for the: treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions (e.g., Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, multiple endocrine neoplasias). reduction of the risk of DU recurrence. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ibuprofen and famotidine tablet, a combination of the NSAID ibuprofen and the histamine H 2 -receptor antagonist famotidine, is indicated for the relief of signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis and to decrease the risk of developing upper gastrointestinal ulcers, which in the clinical trials was defined as a gastric and/or duodenal ulcer, in patients who are taking ibuprofen for those indications. The clinical trials primarily enrolled patients less than 65 years of age without a prior history of gastrointestinal ulcer. Controlled trials do not extend beyond 6 months [see Clinical Studies (14), Use in Specific Populations (8.5)] . Ibuprofen and famotidine tablet, a combination of a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) ibuprofen and the histamine H 2 -receptor antagonist famotidine, is indicated for the relief of signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis and to decrease the risk of developing upper gastrointestinal ulcers, which in the clinical trials was defined as a gastric and/or duodenal ulcer, in patients who are taking ibuprofen for those indications. Controlled trials do not extend beyond 6 months. (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Famotidinetablets are indicated in adult and pediatric patients 40 kg and greater for the treatment of: active duodenal ulcer (DU). Famotidinetablets are indicated in adults for the: treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions (e.g., Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, multiple endocrine neoplasias). Famotidine tablets are histamine-2 (H 2 ) receptor antagonist indicated (1): In adult and pediatric patients 40 kg and greater for the treatment of: active duodenal ulcer (DU). 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Famotidine for oral suspension is indicated in adults for the treatment of: active duodenal ulcer (DU). treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions (e.g., Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, multiple endocrine neoplasias). Famotidine for oral suspension is indicated in pediatric patients 1 year of age and older for the treatment of: peptic ulcer disease. GERD with or without esophagitis and ulcerations. Famotidine for oral suspension is indicated in pediatric patients from birth to less than 1 year of age for the treatment of: GERD. Famotidine for oral suspension is a histamine-2 (H2) receptor antagonist indicated (1): In adults for the treatment of: active duodenal ulcer (DU). In pediatric patients 1 year of age and older for the treatment of: peptic ulcer GERD with or without esophagitis and ulcerations In pediatric patients from birth to less than 1 year of age for the treatment of: GERD Uses • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain food and beverages Famotidine is a histamine-2 (H 2 ) receptor antagonist indicated ( 1 ): In adult and pediatric patients 40 kg and greater for the treatment of: • active duodenal ulcer (DU). 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Famotidine tablets are indicated in adult and pediatric patients 40 kg and greater for the treatment of: active duodenal ulcer (DU). Famotidine is a histamine-2 (H2) receptor antagonist indicated (1) : In adult and pediatric patients 40 kg and greater for the treatment of: active duodenal ulcer (DU). Famotidine is a histamine-2 (H 2 ) receptor antagonist indicated ( 1 ): In adult and pediatric patients 40 kg and greater for the treatment of: active duodenal ulcer (DU).
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Recommended Dosage ( 2.1 ) Adult and Pediatric Patients 40 kg and greater Active DU 40 mg once daily; or 20 mg twice daily Active Gastric Ulcer 40 mg once daily GERD 20 mg twice daily Erosive Esophagitis 20 mg twice daily; or 40 mg twice daily Adults Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions 20 mg every 6 hours; adjust to patient needs; maximum 160 mg every 6 hours Risk Reduction of DU Recurrence 20 mg once daily • See full prescribing information for complete dosing information, including dosing in renal impairment, and recommended treatment duration. ( 2.1 , 2.2 ) Administration ( 2.3 ): • Take once daily before bedtime or twice daily in the morning and before bedtime with or without food. 2.1 Recommended Dosage Table 1 shows the recommended dosage of famotidine 20 mg and 40 mg tablets in adult and pediatric patients weighing 40 kg and greater with normal renal function. The use of famotidine 20 mg and 40 mg tablets is not recommended in pediatric patients weighing less than 40 kg because the lowest available strength (20 mg) exceeds the recommended dose for these patients. Use another famotidine formulation for pediatric patients weighing less than 40 kg. Table 1: Recommended Dosage and Duration of Famotidine Tablets in Adult and Pediatric Patients 40 kg and Greater with Normal Renal Function Indication Recommended Dosage Recommended Duration Active duodenal ulcer (DU) 40 mg once daily; or 20 mg twice daily a Up to 8 weeks b,c Active gastric ulcer 40 mg once daily Up to 8 weeks c Symptomatic nonerosive GERD 20 mg twice daily Up to 6 weeks c Erosive esophagitis diagnosed by endoscopy 20 mg twice daily; or 40 mg twice daily a Up to 12 weeks Pathological hypersecretory conditions d Starting dosage: 20 mg every 6 hours; adjust dosage to individual patient needs Maximum dosage 160 mg every 6 hours As clinically indicated Reduction of the risk of DU recurrence d 20 mg once daily 1 year c or as clinically indicated a Both dosages demonstrated effectiveness in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. b In clinical trials, the majority of patients healed within 4 weeks. For patients who do not heal after 4 weeks, consider an additional 2 to 4 weeks of treatment [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. c Longer treatment durations have not been studied in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 , 14.2 , 14.3 )]. d In pediatric patients, the safety and effectiveness of famotidine tablets have not been established for the reduction of the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence or for treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )]. 2.2 Dosage in Renal Impairment Dosage adjustments of famotidine tablets are recommended for patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 60 mL/min) [see Use in Specific Populations 8.6 )] . Table 2 shows the recommended maximum dosage of famotidine 20 mg or 40 mg tablets for patients with renal impairment, by indication. Use the lowest effective dose. Some dosage adjustments may require switching to other formulations of famotidine (e.g., oral suspension, lower dose tablet). Table 2: Recommended Maximum Dosage of Famotidine Tablets in Adult and Pediatric Patients 40 kg and Greater with Moderate and Severe Renal Impairment Indication Recommended Maximum Dosages Creatinine clearance 30 to 60 mL/minute Creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/minute Active duodenal ulcer (DU) 20 mg once daily; or 40 mg every other day 20 mg every other day a Active gastric ulcer 20 mg once daily; or 40 mg every other day 20 mg every other day a Symptomatic nonerosive GERD 20 mg once daily 20 mg every other day a Erosive esophagitis diagnosed by endoscopy b 20 mg once daily; or 40 mg every other day b 20 mg every other day a,b 40 mg once daily b 20 mg once daily b Pathological hypersecretory conditions c Avoid use d Reduction of the risk of DU recurrence c 20 mg every other day a (see footnote) e a An alternate dosage regimen is 10 mg once daily. Since 20 mg or 40 mg tablet strength cannot be used for this dosage regimen, use an alternate famotidine formulation. b Dosage adjustments for renal impairment are provided for both dosing regimens (20 mg twice daily and 40 mg twice daily) which showed effectiveness for the treatment of erosive esophagitis in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )]. c In pediatric patients, the safety and effectiveness of famotidine tablets have not been established for the reduction of the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence or for treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )]. d Doses required to treat pathological hypersecretory conditions may exceed the maximum doses evaluated in patients with impaired renal function. The risk for increased adverse reactions in renally impaired patients treated with famotidine tablets for pathological hypersecretory conditions is unknown. e Recommended dosage regimen is 10 mg every other day. 2.3 Administration Instructions • Take famotidine tablets once daily before bedtime or twice daily in the morning and before bedtime, as recommended. • Famotidine tablets may be taken with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. • Famotidine tablets may be given with antacids. Directions adults and children 12 years and over: to relieve symptoms, swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water. Do not chew. to prevent symptoms, swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water at any time from 15 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn do not use more than 2 tablets in 24 hours children under 12 years: ask a doctor 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Recommended Dosage (2.1) Adult and Pediatric Patients 40 kg and greater Active DU 40 mg once daily; or 20 mg twice daily Active Gastric Ulcer 40 mg once daily GERD 20 mg twice daily Erosive Esophagitis 20 mg twice daily; or 40 mg twice daily Adults Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions 20 mg every 6 hours; adjust to patient needs; maximum 160 mg every 6 hours Risk Reduction of DU Reocurrence 20 mg once daily See full prescribing information for complete dosing information, including dosing in renal impairment, and recommended treatment duration. ( 2.1 , 2.2 ) A d m inistration ( 2.3 ): Take once daily before bedtime or twice daily in the morning and before bedtime with or without food. The use of famotidine 20 mg and 40 mg tablets is not recommended in pediatric patients weighing less than 40 kg because the lowest available strength (20 mg) exceeds the recommended dose for these patients . Table 1: Recommended Dosage and Duration of Famotidine Tablets in Adult and Pediatric Patients 40 kg and Greater with Normal Renal Function Indication Recommended Dosage Rec ommended Duration Active duodenal ulcer (DU) 40 mg once daily; or 20 mg twice daily a Up to 8 weeks b,c Active gastric ulcer 40 mg once daily Up to 8 weeks c Symptomatic nonerosive GERD 20 mg twice daily Up to 6 weeks c Erosive esophagitis diagnosed by endoscopy 20 mg twice daily; or 40 mg twice daily a Up to 12 weeks Pathological hypersecretory conditions d Starting dosage: 20 mg every 6 hours; adjust dosage to individual patient needs Maximum dosage 160 mg every 6 hours As clinically indicated Reduction of the risk of DU recurrence d 20 mg once daily 1 year c or as clinically indicated a Both dosages demonstrated effectiveness in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . c Longer treatment durations have not been studied in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 , 14.2 , 14.3 )] . d In pediatric patients, the safety and effectiveness of famotidine tablets have not been established for the reduction of the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence or for treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] . 2.2 Dosage in Renal Impairment Dosage adjustments of famotidine tablets are recommended for patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 60 mL/min) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . Table 2: Recommended Maximum Dosage of Famotidine Tablets in Adult and Pediatric Patients 40 kg and Greater with Moderate and Severe Renal Impairment Indication Rec o m mended Maximum Dosages Creatinine clearance 30 to 60 mL/minute Creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/minute Active duodenal ulcer (DU) 20 mg once daily; or 40 mg every other day 20 mg every other day a Active gastric ulcer 20 mg once daily; or 40 mg every other day 20 mg every other day a Symptomatic nonerosive GERD 20 mg once daily 20 mg every other day a Erosive esophagitis diagnosed by endoscopy b 20 mg once daily; or 40 mg every other day b 20 mg every other day a,b 40 mg once daily b 20 mg once daily b Pathological hypersecretory conditions c Avoid use d Reduction of the risk of DU recurrence c 20 mg every other day a (see footnote) e a An alternate dosage regimen is 10 mg once daily. b Dosage adjustments for renal impairment are provided for both dosing regimens (20 mg twice daily and 40 mg twice daily) which showed effectiveness for the treatment of erosive esophagitis in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )] . c In pediatric patients, the safety and effectiveness of famotidine tablets have not been established for the reduction of the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence or for treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] . 2.3 Administration Instructions Take famotidine tablets once daily before bedtime or twice daily in the morning and before bedtime, as recommended. Famotidine tablets may be taken with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Famotidine tablets may be given with antacids. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of ibuprofen and famotidine tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use ibuprofen and famotidine tablets. Use ibuprofen at the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions (5)] . The recommended daily dose of ibuprofen and famotidine 800 mg/26.6 mg is a single tablet administered orally three times per day. Ibuprofen and famotidine tablets should be swallowed whole, and should not be cut to supply a lower dose. Do not chew, divide, or crush tablets. Patients should be instructed that if a dose is missed, it should be taken as soon possible. However, if the next scheduled dose is due, the patient should not take the missed dose, and should be instructed to take the next dose on time. Patients should be instructed not to take 2 doses at one time to make up for a missed dose. Do not substitute ibuprofen and famotidine tablet with the single-ingredient products of ibuprofen and famotidine. One ibuprofen and famotidine tablet administered orally three times per day. (2) Use ibuprofen at the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals. (2) Do not substitute Ibuprofen and famotidine tablet with the single-ingredient products of ibuprofen and famotidine. (2) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Recommended Dosage (2.1) Adult and Pediatric Patients 40 kg and greater Active DU 40 mg once daily; or 20 mg twice daily Active Gastric Ulcer 40 mg once daily GERD 20 mg twice daily Erosive Esophagitis 20 mg twice daily; or 40 mg twice daily Adults Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions 20 mg every 6 hours; adjust to patient needs; maximum 160 mg every 6 hours Risk Reduction of DU Recurrence 20 mg once daily See full prescribing information for complete dosing information, including dosing in renal impairment, and recommended treatment duration. ( 2.1 , 2.2 ) Administration ( 2.3 ): Take once daily before bedtime or twice daily in the morning and before bedtime with or without food. 2.1 Recommended Dosage Table 1 shows the recommended dosage of famotidine tablets 20 mg and 40 mg tablets in adult and pediatric patients weighing 40 kg and greater with normal renal function. The use of famotidine tablets 20 mg and 40 mg tablets is not recommended in pediatric patients weighing less than 40 kg because the lowest available strength (20 mg) exceeds the recommended dose for these patients. Table 1: Recommended Dosage and Duration of Famotidine Tablets in Adult and Pediatric Patients 40 kg and Greater with Normal Renal Function Indication Recommended Dosage Recommended Duration Active duodenal ulcer (DU) 40 mg once daily; or 20 mg twice daily a Up to 8 weeks b,c Active gastric ulcer 40 mg once daily Up to 8 weeks c Symptomatic nonerosive GERD 20 mg twice daily Up to 6 weeks c Erosive esophagitis diagnosed by endoscopy 20 mg twice daily; or 40 mg twice daily a Up to 12 weeks Pathological hypersecretory conditions d Starting dosage: 20 mg every 6 hours; adjust dosage to individual patient needs Maximum dosage 160 mg every 6 hours As clinically indicated Reduction of the risk of DU recurrence d 20 mg once daily 1 year c or as clinically indicated a Both dosages demonstrated effectiveness in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . For patients who do not heal after 4 weeks, consider an additional 2 to 4 weeks of treatment [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. d In pediatric patients, the safety and effectiveness of famotidine tablets have not been established for the reduction of the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence or for treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] 2.2 Dosage in Renal Impairment Dosage adjustments of famotidine tablets are recommended for patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 60 mL/min) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . Table 2 shows the recommended maximum dosage of famotidine tablets 20 mg or 40 mg tablets for patients with renal impairment, by indication. Table 2: Recommended Maximum Dosage of Famotidine Tablets in Adult and Pediatric Patients 40 kg and Greater with Moderate and Severe Renal Impairment Indication Recommended Maximum Dosages Creatinine clearance 30 to 60 mL/minute Creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/minute Active duodenal ulcer (DU) 20 mg once daily; or 40 mg every other day 20 mg every other day a Active gastric ulcer 20 mg once daily; or 40 mg every other day 20 mg every other day a Symptomatic nonerosive GERD 20 mg once daily 20 mg every other day a Erosive esophagitis diagnosed by endoscopy b 20 mg once daily; or 40 mg every other day b 40 mg once daily b 20 mg every other day a,b 20 mg once daily b Pathological hypersecretory conditions c Avoid use d Reduction of the risk of DU recurrence c 20 mg every other day a (see footnote) e a An alternate dosage regimen is 10 mg once daily. b Dosage adjustments for renal impairment are provided for both dosing regimens (20 mg twice daily and 40 mg twice daily) which showed effectiveness for the treatment of erosive esophagitis in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . c In pediatric patients, the safety and effectiveness of famotidine tablets have not been established for the reduction of the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence or for treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . Famotidine tablets may be taken with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Recommended adult dosage by indication (2.1): Active DU 40 mg once daily; or 20 mg twice daily Active GU 40 mg once daily Symptomatic Nonerosive GERD 20 mg twice daily Erosive Esophagitis due to GERD 20 mg twice daily; or 40 mg twice daily Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions 20 mg every 6 hours; adjust to patient needs; maximum 160 mg every 6 hours Risk Reduction of DU Recurrence 20 mg once daily Recommended pediatric dosage by indication (2.2): Peptic Ulcer Disease 1 year to less than 17 years Starting dosage 0.5 mg/kg once daily; or 0.25 mg/kg twice daily; may increase to 1 mg/kg once daily at bedtime or 0.5 mg/kg twice daily; Maximum of 40 mg per day GERD Birth to less than 3 months Starting dosage 0.5 mg/kg once daily; may increase to 1 mg/kg once daily 3 months to less than 1 year Starting dosage 0.5 mg/kg twice daily; may increase to 1 mg/kg twice daily; Maximum of 40 mg per day GERD with or without esophagitis and ulcerations 1 year to less than 17 years 0.5 mg/kg twice daily Maximum of 40 mg twice daily See full prescribing information for complete dosing information in adults and pediatrics, recommended treatment duration by indication, and dosage adjustment for adult patients with renal impairment. (2.1, 2.2, 2.3) Administration (2.3): Take once daily before bedtime or twice daily in the morning and before bedtime with or without food. 2.1 Recommended Dosage in Adults The recommended dosage and duration of famotidine for oral suspension in adults with normal renal function is shown in Table 1. Table 1: Recommended Dosage and Duration of Famotidine for Oral Suspension a in Adults with Normal Renal Function Indication Recommended Dosage Recommended Duration Active DU 40 mg once daily; or 20 mg twice daily b Up to 8 weeks c,d Active GU 40 mg once daily Up to 8 weeks d Symptomatic nonerosive GERD 20 mg twice daily Up to 6 weeks d Erosive esophagitis due to GERD, diagnosed by endoscopy 20 mg twice daily; or 40 mg twice daily b Up to 12 weeks Pathological hypersecretory conditions Starting dosage: 20 mg every 6 hours; adjust dosage to individual patient needs Maximum dosage 160 mg every 6 hours As clinically indicated Reduction of the risk of DU recurrence 20 mg once daily 1 year c,d or as clinically indicated a After preparation, the concentration of famotidine oral suspension is 8 mg/mL [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.3)] b Both dosages demonstrated effectiveness in clinical trials [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14)] . c In clinical trials, the majority of patients healed within 4 weeks. For patients who do not heal after 4 weeks, consider an additional 2 to 4 weeks of treatment [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.1)]. d Longer treatment durations have not been studied in clinical trials [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.1, 14.2, 14.3)] . 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients The recommended dosage and duration of famotidine for oral suspension in pediatric patients with normal renal function is shown in Table 2. Table 2: Recommended Dosage and Duration of Famotidine for Oral Suspension a in Pediatric Patients with Normal Renal Function Indication Pediatric Age Range Recommended Dosage a Duration Peptic Ulcer Disease 1 year to less than 17 years Starting dosage 0.5 mg/kg once daily; or 0.25 mg/kg twice daily. May increase to 1 mg/kg once daily at bedtime or 0.5 mg/kg twice daily Maximum of 40 mg per day 8 weeks b GERD Birth to less than 3 months Starting dosage 0.5 mg/kg once daily. May increase to 1 mg/kg once daily b Up to 8 weeks b,c,d 3 months to less than 1 year Starting dosage 0.5 mg/kg twice daily. May increase to 1 mg/kg twice daily c Maximum of 40 mg per day GERD with or without esophagitis and ulcerations 1 year to less than 17 years 0.5 mg/kg twice daily Maximum of 40 mg twice daily 6 to 12 weeks b a After preparation, the concentration of famotidine oral suspension is 8 mg/mL [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.3)] b Treatment duration based on adult recommendations (see Table 1). Individualize the dose and duration based upon clinical response and/or pH determinations (gastric or esophageal) and endoscopy. c Use conservative measures (e.g., thickened feedings) concurrently [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS (8.4)] . d After 4 weeks of treatment re-evaluate the patient. Consider an additional 4 weeks of treatment if treatment benefit outweighs potential risks. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Adults with Renal Impairment Recommended dosage adjustments for adults with moderate to severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 60 mL/min) by indication are shown in Table 3. Use the lowest effective dosage [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS (8.6)] . A safe and effective dosage has not been established in pediatric patients with renal impairment. Table 3: Recommended Maximum Dosage of Famotidine for Oral Suspension in Adults with Moderate and Severe Renal Impairment Indication Recommended Maximum Dosages Creatinine clearance 30 to 60 mL/minute Creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/minute Active DU 20 mg once daily; or 40 mg every other day 10 mg once daily; or 20 mg every other day Active GU 20 mg once daily; or 40 mg every other day 10 mg once daily; or 20 mg every other day Symptomatic nonerosive GERD 20 mg once daily 10 mg once daily; or 20 mg every other day Erosive esophagitis due to GERD, diagnosed by endoscopy a 20 mg once daily; or 40 mg every other day b 40 mg once daily b 10 mg once daily; or 20 mg every other day b 20 mg once daily b Pathological hypersecretory conditions Avoid use b Reduction of the risk of DU recurrence 10 mg once daily; or 20 mg every other day 10 mg every other day a Dosage adjustments for renal impairment are provided for both dosing regimens (20 mg twice daily and 40 mg twice daily) which showed effectiveness for the treatment of erosive esophagitis in clinical trials [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.4)] . b The dosage required to treat pathological hypersecretory conditions may exceed the maximum dosage evaluated in patients with impaired renal function. The risk for increased adverse reactions in renally impaired patients treated with famotidine for oral suspension for pathological hypersecretory conditions is unknown. 2.4 Administration Instructions Preparation of Constituted Suspension by a Healthcare Provider Prior to Dispensing Prior to dispensing, constitute famotidine for oral suspension by slowly adding 46 mL of Purified Water to the bottle. Shake vigorously for 5 to 10 seconds immediately after adding the water. The constituted suspension contains 40 mg of famotidine per 5 mL, and should be a smooth, mobile, white to off-white, and homogeneous suspension. Administration and Storage of Constituted Suspension Shake the bottle of constituted famotidine for oral suspension vigorously for 5 to 10 seconds prior to each use. Take famotidine for oral suspension once daily before bedtime or twice daily in the morning and before bedtime, as recommended. Famotidine for oral suspension may be taken with or without food [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. Famotidine for oral suspension may be given with antacids. Store the constituted suspension at 25°C (77°F). Protect from freezing. Discard unused constituted suspension after 30 days. Directions • adults and children 12 years and over: • to relieve symptoms, swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water. • to prevent symptoms, swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water at any time from 15 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • do not use more than 2 tablets in 24 hours • children under 12 years: ask a doctor 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Recommended Dosage ( 2.1 ) Adult and Pediatric Patients 40 kg and greater Active DU 40 mg once daily; or 20 mg twice daily Active GastricUlcer 40 mg once daily GERD 20 mg twice daily Erosive Esophagitis 20 mg twice daily; or40 mg twice daily Adults Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions 20 mg every 6 hours; adjust to patient needs; maximum 160 mg every 6 hours Risk Reduction of DU Recurrence 20 mg once daily • See full prescribing information for complete dosing information, including dosing in renal impairment, and recommended treatment duration. For patients who do not heal after 4 weeks, consider an additional 2 to 4 weeks of treatment [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . d In pediatric patients, the safety and effectiveness of famotidine have not been established for the reduction of the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence or for treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )]. 2.2 Dosage in Renal Impairment Dosage adjustments of famotidine tablets are recommended for patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 60 mL/min) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. Table 2: Recommended Maximum Dosage of Famotidine Tablets in Adult and Pediatric Patients 40 kg and Greater with Moderate and Severe Renal Impairment Indication Recommended Maximum Dosages Creatinine clearance 30 to 60 mL/minute Creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/minute Active duodenal ulcer (DU) 20 mg once daily; or40 mg every other day 20 mg every other day a Active gastric ulcer 20 mg once daily; or 40 mg every other day 20 mg every other day a Symptomatic nonerosive GERD 20 mg once daily 20 mg every other day a Erosive esophagitis diagnosed by endoscopy b 20 mg once daily; or 40 mg every other day b 40 mg once daily b 20 mg every other day a,b 20 mg once daily b Pathological hypersecretory conditions c Avoid use d Reduction of the risk of DU recurrence c 20 mg every other day a (see footnote) e a An alternate dosage regimen is 10 mg once daily. c In pediatric patients, the safety and effectiveness of famotidine have not been established for the reduction of the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence or for treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )]. The risk for increased adverse reactions in renally impaired patients treated with famotidine for pathological hypersecretory conditions is unknown. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Indication Recommended Dosage ( 2.1 ) Adult and Pediatric Patients 40 kg and greater Active DU 40 mg once daily; or 20 mg twice daily Active Gastric Ulcer 40 mg once daily GERD 20 mg twice daily Erosive Esophagitis 20 mg twice daily; or 40 mg twice daily Adults Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions 20 mg every 6 hours; adjust to patient needs; maximum 160 mg every 6 hours Risk Reduction of DU Recurrence 20 mg once daily See full prescribing information for complete dosing information, including dosing in renal impairment, and recommended treatment duration. ( 2.1, 2.2 ) Administration ( 2.3 ): Take once daily before bedtime or twice daily in the morning and before bedtime with or without food. Table 1: Recommended Dosage and Duration of Famotidine Tablets in Adult and Pediatric Patients 40 kg and Greater with Normal Renal Function Indication Recommended Dosage Recommended Duration Active duodenal ulcer (DU) 40 mg once daily; or 20 mg twice daily a Up to 8 weeks b,c Active gastric ulcer 40 mg once daily Up to 8 weeks c Symptomatic nonerosive GERD 20 mg twice daily Up to 6 weeks c Erosive esophagitis diagnosed by endoscopy 20 mg twice daily; or 40 mg twice daily a Up to 12 weeks Pathological hypersecretory conditions d Starting dosage: 20 mg every 6 hours; adjust dosage to individual patient needs Maximum dosage 160 mg every 6 hours As clinically indicated Reduction of the risk of DU recurrence d 20 mg once daily 1 year c or as clinically indicated a Both dosages demonstrated effectiveness in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14)] . C Longer treatment durations have not been studied in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.1, 14.2, 14.3)] . d In pediatric patients, the safety and effectiveness of famotidine tablets have not been established for the reduction of the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence or for treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)] . 2.2 Dosage in Renal Impairment Dosage adjustments of famotidine tablets are recommended for patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 60 mL/min) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)] . b Dosage adjustments for renal impairment are provided for both dosing regimens (20 mg twice daily and 40 mg twice daily) which showed effectiveness for the treatment of erosive esophagitis in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.4)] . c In pediatric patients, the safety and effectiveness of famotidine tablets have not been established for the reduction of the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence or for treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)] . Famotidine tablets may be taken with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Recommended Dosage (2.1) Adult and Pediatric Patients 40 kg and greater Active DU 40 mg once daily; or 20 mg twice daily Active Gastric Ulcer 40 mg once daily GERD 20 mg twice daily Erosive Esophagitis 20 mg twice daily; or 40 mg twice daily Adults Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions 20 mg every 6 hours; adjust to patient needs; maximum 160 mg every 6 hours Risk Reduction of DU Recurrence 20 mg once daily See full prescribing information for complete dosing information, including dosing in renal impairment and recommended treatment duration. Table 1 Recommended Dosage and Duration of Famotidine Tablets in Adult and Pediatric Patients 40 kg and Greater with Normal Renal Function a Both dosages demonstrated effectiveness in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. For patients who do not heal after 4 weeks, consider an additional 2 weeks to 4 weeks of treatment [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. Indication Recommended Dosage Recommended Duration Active duodenal ulcer (DU) 40 mg once daily; or 20 mg twice daily a Up to 8 weeks b,c Active gastric ulcer 40 mg once daily Up to 8 weeks c Symptomatic nonerosive GERD 20 mg twice daily Up to 6 weeks c Erosive esophagitis diagnosed by endoscopy 20 mg twice daily; or 40 mg twice daily a Up to 12 weeks Pathological hypersecretory conditions d Starting dosage: 20 mg every 6 hours; adjust dosage to individual patient needs Maximum dosage 160 mg every 6 hours As clinically indicated Reduction of the risk of DU recurrence d 20 mg once daily 1 year c or as clinically indicated 2.2 Dosage in Renal Impairment Dosage adjustments of famotidine are recommended for patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 60 mL/min) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. Table 2 Recommended Maximum Dosage of Famotidine Tablets in Adult and Pediatric Patients 40 kg and Greater with Moderate and Severe Renal Impairment a An alternate dosage regimen is 10 mg once daily. c In pediatric patients, the safety and effectiveness of famotidine have not been established for the reduction of the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence or for treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] . Indication Recommended Maximum Dosages Creatinine clearance 30 mL/minute to 60 mL/minute Creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/minute Active duodenal ulcer (DU) 20 mg once daily; or 40 mg every other day 20 mg every other day a Active gastric ulcer 20 mg once daily; or 40 mg every other day 20 mg every other day a Symptomatic nonerosive GERD 20 mg once daily 20 mg every other day a Erosive esophagitis diagnosed by endoscopy b 20 mg once daily; or 40 mg every other day b 20 mg every other day a,b 40 mg once daily b 20 mg once daily b Pathological hypersecretory conditions c Avoid use d Reduction of the risk of DU recurrence c 20 mg every other day a (see footnote) e 2.3 Administration Instructions Take famotidine tablets once daily before bedtime or twice daily in the morning and before bedtime, as recommended. Famotidine tablets may be taken with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )].
Warnings: Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you are allergic to famotidine or other acid reducers Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you are allergic to famotidine or other acid reducers Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools. These may be signs of a serious condition. See your doctor. • with other acid reducers Ask a doctor before use if you have • had heartburn over 3 months. This may be a sign of a more serious condition. • heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating, or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain • kidney disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug. Acid reducers may interact with certain prescription drugs. Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222)
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Famotidine tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis) to famotidine or other histamine-2 (H 2 ) receptor antagonists. History of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis) to famotidine or other H 2 receptor antagonists. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ibuprofen and famotidine tablet is contraindicated in the following patients: Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to ibuprofen or famotidine or any components of the drug product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8, 5.11)] . History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8, 5.10)] . In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . Ibuprofen and famotidine tablet should not be administered to patients with a history of hypersensitivity to other H 2 -receptor antagonists. Cross sensitivity with other H 2 -receptor antagonists has been observed. Known hypersensitivity to ibuprofen or famotidine or any components of the drug product. (4) History of asthma, urticaria, or allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. (4) In the setting of CABG surgery. (4) Known hypersensitivity to other H 2 -receptor antagonists. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Famotidine for oral suspension is contraindicated in patients with a history of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis) to famotidine or other histamine-2 (H2) receptor antagonists. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Famotidine tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis) to famotidine or other histamine-2 (H2) receptor antagonists. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Famotidine is contraindicated in patients with a history of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis) to famotidine or other histamine-2 (H 2 ) receptor antagonists.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption: Systemic exposure of the concomitant drug may be significantly reduced leading to loss of efficacy. See full prescribing information for a list of interacting drugs. ( 7.1 ) • Tizanidine (CYP1A2) Substrate: Potential for substantial increases in blood concentrations of tizanidine resulting in hypotension, bradycardia or excessive drowsiness; avoid concomitant use, if possible. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption Famotidine can reduce the absorption of other drugs, due to its effect on reducing intragastric acidity, leading to loss of efficacy of the concomitant drug. Concomitant administration of famotidine with dasatinib, delavirdine mesylate, cefditoren, and fosamprenavir is not recommended. See the prescribing information for other drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption for administration instructions, including atazanavir, erlotinib, ketoconazole, itraconazole, ledipasvir/sofosbuvir, nilotinib, and rilpivirine. 7.2 Tizanidine (CYP1A2 Substrate) Although not studied clinically, famotidine is considered a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor and may lead to substantial increases in blood concentrations of tizanidine, a CYP1A2 substrate. Avoid concomitant use with famotidine. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor for hypotension, bradycardia or excessive drowsiness. Refer to the full prescribing information for tizanidine. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption: Systemic exposure of the concomitant drug may be significantly reduced leading to loss of efficacy. ( 7.1 ) T izanidine (CYP1A2) Substrate: Potential for substantial increases in blood concentrations of tizanidine resulting in hypotension, bradycardia or excessive drowsiness; avoid concomitant use, if possible. Concomitant administration of famotidine tablets with dasatinib, delavirdine mesylate, cefditoren, and fosamprenavir is not recommended. Avoid concomitant use with famotidine tablets. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See Table 3 for clinically significant drug interactions with ibuprofen. See full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions. (7) table 3.1 table 3.2 table 3.3 ( 7.1 ) Tizanidine (CYP1A2) Substrate: Potential for substantial increases in blood concentrations of tizanidine resulting in hypotension, bradycardia or excessive drowsiness; avoid concomitant use, if possible. (7.1) Tizanidine (CYP1A2) Substrate: Potential for substantial increases in blood concentrations of tizanidine resulting in hypotension, bradycardia or excessive drowsiness; avoid concomitant use, if possible. (7.2) 7.1 Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption Famotidine can reduce the absorption of other drugs, due to its effect on reducing intragastric acidity, leading to loss of efficacy of the concomitant drug. Concomitant administration of famotidine for oral suspension with dasatinib, delavirdine mesylate, cefditoren, and fosamprenavir is not recommended. Avoid concomitant use with famotidine for oral suspension. See full prescribing information for a list of interacting drugs.( 7.1 ) • Tizanidine (CYP1A2) Substrate: Potential for substantial increases in blood concentrations of tizanidine resulting in hypotension, bradycardia orexcessive drowsiness; avoid concomitant use, if possible. Refer to the full prescribing information for tizanidine Concomitant administration of famotidine with dasatinib, delavirdine mesylate, cefditoren and fosamprenavir is not recommended. See the prescribing information for other drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption for administration instructions, including atazanavir, erlotinib, ketoconazole, itraconazole, ledipasvir/sofosbuvir, nilotinib and rilpivirine.

=== GUAIFENESIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Cough Suppressant Expectorant Purpose Expectorant Purpose Pain reliever/fever reducer Cough suppressant Expectorant Nasal decongestant Purpose Expectorant and Nasal Decongestant Active ingredients (in each 20 mL) Purposes Dextromethorphan HBr 20 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 400 mg Expectorant Phenylephrine HCl 10 mg Nasal decongestant Purposes Cough suppressant Expectorant Nasal decongestant Active ingredients (in each caplet) Purpose Acetaminophen 325 mg Pain reliever/fever reducer Guaifenesin 200 mg Expectorant Phenylephrine HCl 5 mg Nasal decongestant
Indications: Uses Uses: temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to drain bronchial tubes. Uses ■ helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive Uses temporarily relieves common cold/flu symptoms: • nasal congestion • sinus congestion and pressure • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation • minor aches and pains • headache • fever • sore throat • reduces swelling of nasal passages • temporarily restores freer breathing through the nose • promotes nasal and/or sinus drainage • helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive Uses helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to: common cold hay fever upper respiratory allergies temporarily restores freer breathing through the nose promotes nasal and/or sinus drainage temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure Uses helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive Uses helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive temporarily relieves: cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants the intensity of coughing the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep nasal congestion due to a cold Uses • Helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to drain bronchial tubes • Temporarily relieves these symptoms occurring with a cold: • nasal congestion • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation. Uses for the temporary relief of the following cold symptoms: minor aches and pains headache sore throat nasal congestion sinus congestion and pressure helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to make coughs more productive temporarily reduces fever Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms associated with hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies, and the common cold: sinus congestion and pressure headache nasal congestion minor aches and pains helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to make coughs more productive temporarily reduces fever USE(S) helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive
Dosage: Directions Do not give more than 6 doses in any 24 hours period  shake well before use  measure only with dosing cup provided  keep dosing cup with product  mL = milliliter Age Dose Children 6 to under 12 years of age 5 mL every 4 hours Children 4 to under 6 years of age 2.5 mL every 4 hours Children under 4 years of age Do not use Directions ■ do not crush, chew, or break tablet ■ take with a full glass of water ■ this product can be administered without regard for timing of meals ■ adults and children 12 years of age and over: 1 tablet every 12 hours. Do not exceed 2 tablets in 24 hours. ■ children under 12 years of age: do not use Directions • take only as directed – see Overdose warning • only use the dose cup provided • do not exceed 4 doses per 24 hrs adults & children 12 yrs & over 30 mL every 4 hrs children 6 to under 12 yrs 15 mL every 4 hrs children 4 to under 6 yrs ask a doctor children under 4 yrs do not use Other information • each 15 mL contains: sodium 6 mg • store at 20-25 ° C (68-77 ° F). Do not refrigerate. Directions do not crush, chew, or break tablet take with a full glass of water this product can be administered without regard for timing of meals adults and children 12 years and older: 2 tablets every 12 hours; not more than 4 tablets in 24 hours children under 12 years of age: do not use Directions do not crush, chew, or break tablet take with a full glass of water this product can be administered without regard for the timing of meals adults and children 12 years of age and over: 1 or 2 tablets every 12 hours. Do not exceed 4 tablets in 24 hours. children under 12 years of age: do not use Directions do not take more than 6 doses in any 24-hour period measure only with dosing cup provided do not use dosing cup with other products dose as follows or as directed by a doctor mL = milliliter adults and children 12 years of age and older: 20 mL in dosing cup provided every 4 hours. children under 12 years of age: Do not use. Directions • do not take more than 4 doses in any 24-hour period. AGE DOSE Adults and Children 12 years of age and over Take 1 teaspoonfuls (5 mL) every 6 hours Children under 12 years of age ask a doctor Directions do not take more than directed (see overdose warning ) adults and children 12 years and over take 2 caplets every 4 hours swallow whole – do not crush, chew, or dissolve do not take more than 10 caplets in 24 hours children under 12 years ask a doctor
Warnings: Warnings Do not use in child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional condition, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your child’s prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product. Warnings Do not use ■ for children under 12 years of age Warnings Liver warning: This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if • adult takes more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours • child takes more than 5 doses in 24 hours • taken with other drugs containing acetaminophen • adult has 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: • skin reddening • blisters • rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Sore throat warning: If sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. Do not use • with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen, ask a doctor or pharmacist. • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product. • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have • liver disease • heart disease • thyroid disease • diabetes • high blood pressure • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • you get nervous, dizzy or sleepless • pain, nasal congestion, or cough gets worse or lasts more than 5 days (children) or 7 days (adults) • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • redness or swelling is present • new symptoms occur • cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts. These could be signs of a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. Overdose warning: In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease high blood pressure thyroid disease diabetes trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema cough accompanied by too much phlegm (mucus) When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask doctor if you get nervous, dizzy, or sleepless symptoms do not get better within 7 days, come back or occur with a fever, rash, or persistent headache. These could be signs of a serious illness. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Warnings Do not use for children under 12 years of age Ask a doctor before use if you have persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema cough accompanied by too much phlegm (mucus) Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days, comes back, or occurs with fever, rash, or persistent headache. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease high blood pressure thyroid disease diabetes trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis or emphysema cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness or sleeplessness occur symptoms do not get better within 7 days or occur with fever cough comes back, or occurs with rash or persistent headache. (1-800-222-1222) Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) • cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis or emphysema. Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other oral nasal decongestant or stimulant. When using this product • do not exceed recommended dosage Stop use and ask a doctor if • you get nervous, dizzy or sleepless • symptoms do not get better within 7 days or are accompanied by fever • coughs lasts more than 7 days, comes back, or is accompanied by fever, rash, or a persistent headache. If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children . Warnings Liver warning This product contains acetaminophen. The maximum daily dose of this product is 10 caplets (3,250 mg acetaminophen) in 24 hours. Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Sore throat warning If sore throat is severe, perists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. Do not use with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease heart disease high blood pressure thyroid disease diabetes trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occur pain, nasal congestion, or cough gets worse or lasts more than 7 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts These could be signs of a serious condition. Overdose warning In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). WARNING .

=== OMEPRAZOLE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Acid reducer
Indications: Use(s) treats frequent heartburn (occurs 2 or more days a week) not intended for immediate relief of heartburn; this drug may take 1 to 4 days for full effect Use • treats frequent heartburn (occurs 2 or more days a week) • not intended for immediate relief of heartburn; this drug may take 1 to 4 days for full effect 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Omeprazole is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated for the: • Treatment of active duodenal ulcer in adults (1.1) • Eradication of Helicobacter pylori to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence in adults (1.2) • Treatment of active benign gastric ulcer in adults (1.3) • Treatment of symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) in patients 2 years of age and older (1.4) • Maintenance of healing of EE due to acid-mediated GERD in patients 2 years of age and older (1.6) • Pathologic hypersecretory conditions in adults (1.7) 1.1 Treatment of Active Duodenal Ulcer Omeprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated for short-term treatment of active duodenal ulcer in adults. Most patients heal within four weeks. Some patients may require an additional four weeks of therapy. 1.2 Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Eradication of H. pylori has been shown to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence. Triple Therapy Omeprazole delayed-release capsules in combination with clarithromycin and amoxicillin, are indicated for treatment of patients with H. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease (active or up to 1-year history) to eradicate H. pylori in adults. Dual Therapy Omeprazole delayed-release capsules in combination with clarithromycin are indicated for treatment of patients with H. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease to eradicate H. Among patients who fail therapy, omeprazole delayed-release capsules with clarithromycin are more likely to be associated with the development of clarithromycin resistance as compared with triple therapy. In patients who fail therapy, susceptibility testing should be done. If resistance to clarithromycin is demonstrated or susceptibility testing is not possible, alternative antimicrobial therapy should be instituted [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and the clarithromycin prescribing information, Microbiology section]. 1.3 Treatment of Active Benign Gastric Ulcer Omeprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated for short-term treatment (4 to 8 weeks) of active benign gastric ulcer in adults. 1.4 Treatment of Symptomatic Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) Omeprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated for the treatment of heartburn and other symptoms associated with GERD for up to 4 weeks in patients 2 years of age and older. 1.5 Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis (EE) Due to Acid-Mediated GERD Pediatric Patients 2 Years of Age to Adults Omeprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated for the short-term treatment (4 to 8 weeks) of EE due to acid-mediated GERD that has been diagnosed by endoscopy in patients 2 years of age and older. The efficacy of omeprazole delayed-release capsules used for longer than 8 weeks in patients with EE has not been established. If a patient does not respond to 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 4 weeks of treatment may be given. If there is recurrence of EE or GERD symptoms (e.g., heartburn), additional 4 to 8 week courses of omeprazole delayed-release capsules may be considered. 1.6 Maintenance of Healing of EE Due to Acid-Mediated GERD Omeprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated for the maintenance healing of EE due to acid-mediated GERD in patients 2 years of age and older. Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months. 1.7 Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Omeprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated for the long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions (e.g., Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, multiple endocrine adenomas and systemic mastocytosis) in adults. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Omeprazole is a proton pump inhibitor indicated for: • Treatment in adults of duodenal ulcer ( 1.1 ) and gastric ulcer ( 1.2 ) • Treatment in adults and children of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) ( 1.3 ) and maintenance of healing of erosive esophagitis ( 1.4 ) The safety and effectiveness of omeprazole in pediatric patients <1 year of age have not been established. ( 8.4 ) 1.1 Duodenal Ulcer (adults) Omeprazole delayed-release capsules, USP are indicated for short-term treatment of active duodenal ulcer in adults. Omeprazole delayed-release capsules, USP, in combination with clarithromycin and amoxicillin, are indicated for treatment of patients with H. Omeprazole delayed-release capsules, USP, in combination with clarithromycin are indicated for treatment of patients with H. Eradication of H. pylori has been shown to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence [ see Clinical Studies (14.1 ) and Dosage and Administration (2) ]. If resistance to clarithromycin is demonstrated or susceptibility testing is not possible, alternative antimicrobial therapy should be instituted. [ See Microbiology section (12.4) ], and the clarithromycin package insert, Microbiology section.) 1.2 Gastric Ulcer (adults) Omeprazole delayed-release capsules, USP are indicated for short-term treatment (4 to 8 weeks) of active benign gastric ulcer in adults. [ See Clinical Studies (14.2) ] 1.3 Treatment of Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) (adults and pediatric patients) Symptomatic GERD Omeprazole delayed-release capsules, USP are indicated for the treatment of heartburn and other symptoms associated with GERD in pediatric patients and adults. Erosive Esophagitis Omeprazole delayed-release capsules, USP are indicated for the short-term treatment (4 to 8 weeks) of erosive esophagitis that has been diagnosed by endoscopy in pediatric patients and adults. [ See Clinical Studies (14.4) ] The efficacy of omeprazole delayed-release capsules, USP used for longer than 8 weeks in these patients has not been established. If there is recurrence of erosive esophagitis or GERD symptoms (e.g., heartburn), additional 4 to 8 week courses of omeprazole may be considered. 1.4 Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis (adults) Omeprazole delayed-release capsules, USP are indicated to maintain healing of erosive esophagitis in pediatric patients and adults. [ See Clinical Studies (14.4) ] 1.5 Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Omeprazole delayed-release capsules, USP are indicated for the long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions (e.g., Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, multiple endocrine adenomas and systemic mastocytosis) in adults. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Omeprazole is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated for the: Treatment of active duodenal ulcer in adults ( 1.1 ) Eradication of Helicobacter pylori to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence in adults ( 1.2 ) Treatment of active benign gastric ulcer in adults ( 1.3 ) Treatment of symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) in patients 2 years of age and older ( 1.4 ) Maintenance of healing of EE due to acid-mediated GERD in patients 2 years of age and older ( 1.6 ) Pathologic hypersecretory conditions in adults ( 1.7 ) 1.1 Treatment of Active Duodenal Ulcer Omeprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated for short-term treatment of active duodenal ulcer in adults. If resistance to clarithromycin is demonstrated or susceptibility testing is not possible, alternative antimicrobial therapy should be instituted [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and the clarithromycin prescribing information, Microbiology section ].
Dosage: Directions for adults 18 years of age and older this product is to be used once a day (every 24 hours), every day for 14 days it may take 1 to 4 days for full effect; some people get complete relief of symptoms within 24 hours 14-Day Course of Treatment swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water before eating in the morning take every day for 14 days do not take more than 1 tablet a day do not use for more than 14 days unless directed by your doctor swallow whole. Do not chew or crush tablets Repeated 14-Day Courses (if needed) you may repeat a 14-day course every 4 months do not take for more than 14 days or more often than every 4 months unless directed by a doctor children under 18 years of age: ask a doctor. Heartburn in children may sometimes be caused by a serious condition. Directions • for adults 18 years of age and older • this product is to be used once a day (every 24 hours), every day for 14 days • it may take 1 to 4 days for full effect; some people get complete relief of symptoms within 24 hours 14-Day Course of Treatment • swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water before eating in the morning • take every day for 14 days • do not take more than 1 tablet a day • do not use for more than 14 days unless directed by your doctor • swallow whole. Do not chew or crush tablets Repeated 14-Day Courses (if needed) • you may repeat a 14-day course every 4 months • do not take for more than 14 days or more often than every 4 months unless directed by a doctor • children under 18 years of age: ask a doctor. Directions • for adults 18 years of age and older • this product is to be used once a day (every 24 hours), every day for 14 days • it may take 1 to 4 days for full effect; some people get complete relief of symptoms within 24 hours 14-Day Course of Treatment • take 1 tablet before eating in the morning • do not crush or chew tablets • place the tablet on tongue; tablet disintegrates, with or without water. The tablets can also be swallowed whole with water. • take every day for 14 days • do not take more than 1 tablet a day • do not use for more than 14 days unless directed by your doctor • do not take this medicine with alcohol Repeated 14-Day Course (if needed) • you may repeat a 14-day course every 4 months • do not take for more than 14 days or more often than every 4 months unless directed by a doctor • children under 18 years of age: ask a doctor before use. Directions • for adults 18 years of age and older • this product is to be used once a day (every 24 hours), every day for 14 days • it may take 1 to 4 days for full effect; some people get complete relief of symptoms within 24 hours 14-Day Course of Treatment • swallow 1 capsule with a glass of water before eating in the morning • take every day for 14 days • do not take more than 1 capsule a day • do not use for more than 14 days unless directed by your doctor • swallow whole. Do not chew or crush capsules. Repeated 14-Day Courses (if needed) • you may repeat a 14-day course every 4 months • do not take for more than 14 days or more often than every 4 months unless directed by a doctor • children under 18 years of age: ask a doctor. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Recommended Adult (2.1) and Pediatric Dosage (2.2) Treatment of Active Duodenal Ulcer 20 mg once daily for 4 weeks; some patients may require an additional 4 weeks (2.1) H. pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Triple Therapy: Omeprazole delayed-release capsules Amoxicillin Clarithromycin 20 mg 1000 mg 500 mg Each drug twice daily for 10 days (2.1) * Dual Therapy: Omeprazole delayed-release capsules Clarithromycin 40 mg once daily for 14 days** 500 mg three times daily for 14 days (2.1) Active Benign Gastric Ulcer 40 mg once daily for 4 to 8 weeks (2.1) Symptomatic GERD 20 mg once daily for up to 4 weeks (2.1) See full prescribing information for weight based dosing in pediatric patients 2 years of age and older (2.2) EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD 20 mg once daily for 4 to 8 weeks (2.1) *** Maintenance of Healing of EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD 20 mg once daily (2.1) **** See full prescribing information for weight based dosing in pediatric patients 2 years of age and older (2.2) Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Starting dose is 60 mg once daily (varies with individual patient, see full prescribing information) as long as clinically indicated (2.1) * if ulcer present, continue omeprazole delayed-release capsules 20 mg once daily for an additional 18 days. ** if ulcer present, continue omeprazole delayed-release capsules 20 mg once daily for an additional 14 days. *** an additional 4 weeks of treatment may be given if no response; if recurrence additional 4 to 8 week courses may be considered. **** studied for 12 months. Reduce the dosage to 10 mg once daily for patients with hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A, B, or C) and Asian patients ( 8.6 , 8.7 ) 2.1 Recommended Adult Dosage Regimen by Indication Table 1 shows the recommended dosage of omeprazole delayed-release capsules in adult patients by indication. Table 1: Recommended Dosage Regimen of Omeprazole Delayed-Release Capsules in Adults by Indication Indication Dosage of Omeprazole Delayed-Release Capsules Treatment Duration Treatment of Active Duodenal Ulcer 20 mg once daily 4 weeks 1 Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Triple Therapy Omeprazole delayed-release capsules 20 mg Amoxicillin 1000 mg Clarithromycin 500 mg Take all three drugs twice daily 10 days In patients with an ulcer present at the time of initiation of therapy, continue omeprazole delayed-release capsules 20 mg once daily for an additional 18 days for ulcer healing and symptom relief. Dual Therapy Omeprazole delayed-release capsules 40 mg once daily Clarithromycin 500 mg three times daily 14 days In patients with an ulcer present at the time of initiation of therapy, an additional 14 days of omeprazole delayed-release capsules 20 mg once daily is recommended for ulcer healing and symptom relief. Active Benign Gastric Ulcer 40 mg once daily 4 to 8 weeks Treatment of Symptomatic GERD 20 mg once daily Up to 4 weeks Treatment of EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD 20 mg once daily 4 to 8 weeks 2 Maintenance of Healing of EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD 20 mg once daily 3 Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months. Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Starting dose is 60 mg once daily; adjust to patient needs Daily dosages of greater than 80 mg should be administered in divided doses. Dosages up to 120 mg three times daily have been administered. As long as clinically indicated. Some patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome have been treated continuously for more than 5 years. 1. Most patients heal within 4 weeks; some patients may require an additional 4 weeks of therapy to achieve healing 2. The efficacy of omeprazole delayed-release capsules used for longer than 8 weeks in patients with EE has not been established. If a patient does not respond to 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 4 weeks of treatment may be given. If there is recurrence of EE or GERD symptoms (e.g., heartburn), additional 4 to 8 week courses of omeprazole delayed-release capsules may be considered. 3 . Dosage reduction to 10 mg once daily is recommended for patients with hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A, B or C) and Asian patients when used for the maintenance of healing of EE [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 , 8.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 , 12.5 ) ]. 2.2 Recommended Pediatric Dosage Regimen by Indication Table 2 shows the recommended dosage of omeprazole delayed-release capsules in pediatric patients by indication. Table 2: Recommended Dosage Regimen of Omeprazole Delayed-Release Capsules in Pediatric Patients by Indication Indication Omeprazole Delayed-Release Capsules Dosage Regimen and Duration Treatment of Symptomatic GERD Patient Age Weight-Based Dose (mg) Regimen and Duration 2 to 16 years 10 to less than 20 kg: 10 mg Once daily for up to 4 weeks 20 kg and greater: 20 mg Treatment of EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD 2 to 16 years 10 to less than 20 kg: 10 mg Once daily for 4 to 8 weeks 1 20 kg and greater: 20 mg Maintenance of Healing of EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD 2 to 16 years 10 to less than 20 kg: 10 mg Once daily. Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months 20 kg and greater: 20 mg 1. 2.3 Administration Instructions • Take omeprazole delayed-release capsules before meals. • Antacids may be used concomitantly with omeprazole delayed-release capsules. • Missed doses: If a dose is missed, administer as soon as possible. However, if the next scheduled dose is due, do not take the missed dose, and take the next dose on time. Do not take two doses at one time to make up for a missed dose. Omeprazole Delayed-Release Capsules • Swallow omeprazole delayed-release capsules whole; do not chew. • For patients unable to swallow an intact capsule, omeprazole delayed-release capsules can be opened and administered as follows: 1. Place one tablespoon of applesauce into a clean container (e.g., empty bowl). The applesauce used should not be hot and should be soft enough to be swallowed without chewing. 2. Open the capsule. 3. Carefully empty all of the pellets inside the capsule on the applesauce. 4. Mix the pellets with the applesauce. 5. Swallow applesauce and pellets immediately with a glass of cool water to ensure complete swallowing of the pellets. Do not chew or crush the pellets. Do not save the applesauce and pellets for future use. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Omeprazole delayed-release capsules should be taken before eating. In the clinical trials, antacids were used concomitantly with omeprazole. Patients should be informed that the omeprazole delayed-release capsule should be swallowed whole. For patients unable to swallow an intact capsule, alternative administration options are available [ See Dosage and Administration (2.8) ]. Indication Omeprazole Dose Frequency Treatment of Active Duodenal Ulcer ( 2.1 ) 20 mg Once daily for 4 weeks. Some patients may require an additional 4 weeks H. pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence ( 2.2 ) Triple Therapy: Omeprazole 20 mg Each drug twice daily for 10 days Amoxicillin 1000 mg Clarithromycin 500 mg Dual Therapy: Omeprazole 40 mg Once daily for 14 days Clarithromycin 500 mg Three times daily for 14 days Gastric Ulcer ( 2.3 ) 40 mg Once daily for 4 to 8 weeks GERD ( 2.4 ) 20 mg Once daily for 4 to 8 weeks Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis ( 2.5 ) 20 mg Once daily Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions ( 2.6 ) 60 mg (varies with individual patient) Once daily Pediatric Patients (2 to 16 years of age) ( 2.7 ) Weight Dose GERD And Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis 10 < 20 kg 10 mg Once daily ≥ 20 kg 20 kg 2.1 Short-Term Treatment of Active Duodenal Ulcer The recommended adult oral dose of omeprazole delayed-release capsules are 20 mg once daily. Most patients heal within four weeks. Some patients may require an additional four weeks of therapy. 2.2 H. pylori Eradication for the Reduction of the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Triple Therapy (omeprazole/clarithromycin/amoxicillin) The recommended adult oral regimen is omeprazole delayed-release capsules 20 mg plus clarithromycin 500 mg plus amoxicillin 1000 mg each given twice daily for 10 days. In patients with an ulcer present at the time of initiation of therapy, an additional 18 days of omeprazole delayed-release capsules 20 mg once daily is recommended for ulcer healing and symptom relief. Dual Therapy (omeprazole/clarithromycin) The recommended adult oral regimen is omeprazole delayed-release capsules 40 mg once daily plus clarithromycin 500 mg three times daily for 14 days. In patients with an ulcer present at the time of initiation of therapy, an additional 14 days of omeprazole delayed-release capsules 20 mg once daily is recommended for ulcer healing and symptom relief. 2.3 Gastric Ulcer The recommended adult oral dose is 40 mg once daily for 4 to 8 weeks. 2.4 Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) The recommended adult oral dose for the treatment of patients with symptomatic GERD and no esophageal lesions is 20 mg daily for up to 4 weeks. The recommended adult oral dose for the treatment of patients with erosive esophagitis and accompanying symptoms due to GERD is 20 mg daily for 4 to 8 weeks. 2.5 Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis The recommended adult oral dose is 20 mg daily. [ See Clinical Studies (14.4) ] 2.6 Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions The dosage of omeprazole delayed-release capsules in patients with pathological hypersecretory conditions varies with the individual patient. The recommended adult oral starting dose is 60 mg once daily. Doses should be adjusted to individual patient needs and should continue for as long as clinically indicated. Doses up to 120 mg three times daily have been administered. Daily dosages of greater than 80 mg should be administered in divided doses. Some patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome have been treated continuously with omeprazole delayed-release capsules for more than 5 years. 2.7 Pediatric Patients For the treatment of GERD and maintenance of healing of erosive esophagitis, the recommended daily dose for pediatric patients 2 to 16 years of age is as follows: Patient Weight Omeprazole Daily Dose 10 < 20 kg 10 mg ≥ 20 kg 20 mg On a per kg basis, the doses of omeprazole required to heal erosive esophagitis in pediatric patients are greater than those for adults. Alternative administrative options can be used for pediatric patients unable to swallow an intact capsule [ See Dosage and Administration (2.8) ]. 2.8 Alternative Administration Options Omeprazole is available as a delayed-release capsule. For patients who have difficulty swallowing capsules, the contents of an omeprazole delayed-release capsule can be added to applesauce. One tablespoon of applesauce should be added to an empty bowl and the capsule should be opened. All of the pellets inside the capsule should be carefully emptied on the applesauce. The pellets should be mixed with the applesauce and then swallowed immediately with a glass of cool water to ensure complete swallowing of the pellets. The pellets should not be chewed or crushed. The pellets/applesauce mixture should not be stored for future use. Do not chew, crush, or suck tablets. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION * if ulcer present, continue omeprazole delayed-release capsules 20 mg once daily for an additional 18 days. Reduce the dosage to 10 mg once daily for patients with hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A, B, or C) and Asian patients ( 8.6 , 8.7 ) Indication Recommended Adult ( 2.1 ) and Pediatric Dosage ( 2.2 ) Treatment of Active Duodenal Ulcer 20 mg once daily for 4 weeks; some patients may require an additional 4 weeks ( 2.1 ) H. pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Triple Therapy: Omeprazole delayed- release capsules 20 mg Each drug twice daily for 10 days ( 2.1 )* Amoxicillin 1000 mg Clarithromycin 500 mg Dual Therapy : Omeprazole delayed- release capsules 40 mg once daily for 14 days** Clarithromycin 500 mg three times daily for 14 days ( 2.1 ) Active Benign Gastric Ulcer 40 mg once daily for 4 to 8 weeks ( 2.1 ) Symptomatic GERD 20 mg once daily for up to 4 weeks ( 2.1 ) See full prescribing information for weight based dosing in pediatric patients 2 years of age and older ( 2.2 ) EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD 20 mg once daily for 4 to 8 weeks ( 2.1 )*** Maintenance of Healing of EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD 20 mg once daily ( 2.1 )**** See full prescribing information for weight based dosing in pediatric patients 2 years of age and older ( 2.2 ) Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Starting dose is 60 mg once daily (varies with individual patient, see full prescribing information) as long as clinically indicated ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Recommended Adult Dosage Regimen by Indication Table 1 shows the recommended dosage of omeprazole delayed-release capsules in adult patients by indication. Table 1: Recommended Dosage Regimen of Omeprazole Delayed-Release Capsules in Adults by Indication 1. Dosage reduction to 10 mg once daily is recommended for patients with hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A, B or C) and Asian patients when used for the maintenance of healing of EE [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6 , 8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3 , 12.5) ]. Indication Dosage of Omeprazole Delayed-Release Capsules Treatment Duration Treatment of Active Duodenal Ulcer 20 mg once daily 4 weeks 1 Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Triple Therapy Omeprazole delayed-release capsules 20 mg Amoxicillin 1000 mg Clarithromycin 500 mg Take all three drugs twice daily 10 days In patients with an ulcer present at the time of initiation of therapy, continue omeprazole delayed-release capsules 20 mg once daily for an additional 18 days for ulcer healing and symptom relief. Some patients with Zollinger- Ellison syndrome have been treated continuously for more than 5 years. Table 2: Recommended Dosage Regimen of Omeprazole Delayed-Release Capsules in Pediatric Patients by Indication 1. Indication Omeprazole Delayed-Release Capsules Dosage Regimen and Duration Patient Age Weight-Based Dose (mg) Regimen and Duration Treatment of Symptomatic GERD 2 to 16 years 10 to less than 20 kg: 10 mg Once daily for up to 4 weeks 20 kg and greater: 20 mg Treatment of EE due to Acid- Mediated GERD 2 to 16 years 10 to less than 20 kg: 10 mg Once daily for 4 to 8 weeks 1 20 kg and greater: 20 mg Maintenance of Healing of EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD 2 to 16 years 10 to less than 20 kg: 10 mg Once daily. Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months 20 kg and greater: 20 mg 2.3 Administration Instructions Take omeprazole delayed-release capsules before meals. Antacids may be used concomitantly with omeprazole delayed-release capsules. Missed doses: If a dose is missed, administer as soon as possible. Omeprazole delayed-release capsules Swallow omeprazole delayed-release capsules whole; do not chew. For patients unable to swallow an intact capsule, omeprazole delayed-release capsules can be opened and administered as follows: Place one tablespoon of applesauce into a clean container (e.g., empty bowl).
Warnings: Warnings Allergy alert: do not use if you are allergic to omeprazole omeprazole may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Do not use if you have: trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating or dizziness chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadednes frequent chest pain These may be signs of a serious condition. See your doctor. Ask a doctor before use if you have : had heartburn over 3 months. This may be a sign of a more serious condition. frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn unexplained weight loss nausea or vomiting stomach pain Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug. Acid reducers may interact with certain prescription drugs. Stop use and ask doctor if: your heartburn continues or worsens you need to take this product for more than 14 days you need to take more than 1 course of treatment every 4 months you get diarrhea you develop a rash or joint pain If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222) Warnings Allergy alert: • do not use if you are allergic to omeprazole. • omeprazole may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: • skin reddening • blisters • rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Do not use if you have: • trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools • heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain These may be signs of a serious condition. Ask a doctor before use if you have: • had heartburn over 3 months. • frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug. Stop use and ask a doctor if: • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days • you need to take more than 1 course of treatment every 4 months • you get diarrhea • you develop a rash or joint pain If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Do not use if you have: • trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools • heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating or dizziness • chest or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain These may be signs of a serious condition. This may be a sign of a more serious condition • frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug. See you doctor.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Omeprazole delayed-release capsules are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis to the formulation or any substituted benzimidazole. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Adverse Reactions (6) ]. • Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including omeprazole, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. • For information about contraindications of antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated in combination with omeprazole, refer to the CONTRAINDICATIONS section of their package inserts. • Patients with known hypersensitivity to substituted benzimidazoles or any component of the formulation. (4) • Patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products. ( 4 , 7 ) • Refer to the Contraindications section of the prescribing information for clarithromycin and amoxicillin, when administered in combination with omeprazole. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Omeprazole delayed-release capsules are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to substituted benzimidazoles or to any component of the formulation. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, interstitial nephritis, and urticaria [ See Adverse Reactions (6) ]. For information about contraindications of antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated in combination with omeprazole, refer to the CONTRAINDICATIONS section of their package inserts. Known hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation or substituted benzimidazoles (angioedema and anaphylaxis have occurred) ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Omeprazole delayed-release capsules are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis to the formulation or any substituted benzimidazole. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6) ] . Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including omeprazole delayed-release capsules, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. For information about contraindications of antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated in combination with omeprazole delayed-release capsules, refer to the CONTRAINDICATIONS section of their package inserts. Patients with known hypersensitivity to substituted benzimidazoles or any component of the formulation. ( 4 ) Patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products. ( 4 , 7 ) Refer to the Contraindications section of the prescribing information for clarithromycin and amoxicillin, when administered in combination with omeprazole delayed- release capsules. ( 4 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Tables 3 and 4 include drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with omeprazole and instructions for preventing or managing them. Consult the labeling of concomitantly used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with PPIs. Table 3: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Co-Administered with Omeprazole and Interaction with Diagnostics Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact: The effect of PPIs on antiretroviral drugs is variable. The clinical importance and the mechanisms behind these interactions are not always known. • Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine, atazanavir and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with omeprazole may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. • Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with omeprazole may increase toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. • There are other antiretroviral drugs which do not result in clinically relevant interactions with omeprazole. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with omeprazole is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ]. Atazanavir: Avoid concomitant use with omeprazole. See prescribing information for atazanavir for dosing information. Nelfinavir: Avoid concomitant use with omeprazole. See prescribing information for nelfinavir. Saquinavir: See the prescribing information for saquinavir for monitoring of potential saquinavir-related toxicities. Other antiretrovirals: See prescribing information for specific antiretroviral drugs. Warfarin Clinical Impact: Increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving PPIs, including omeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Intervention: Monitor INR and prothrombin time and adjust the dose of warfarin, if needed, to maintain target INR range. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of omeprazole with methotrexate (primarily at high dose) may elevate and prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. Intervention: A temporary withdrawal of omeprazole may be considered in some patients receiving high-dose methotrexate. CYP2C19 Substrates (e.g., clopidogrel, citalopram, cilostazol, phenytoin, diazepam) Clopidogrel Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of omeprazole 80 mg results in reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in platelet inhibition [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. There are no adequate combination studies of a lower dose of omeprazole or a higher dose of clopidogrel in comparison with the approved dose of clopidogrel. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use with omeprazole. Consider use of alternative anti-platelet therapy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Citalopram Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of citalopram leading to an increased risk of QT prolongation [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Limit the dose of citalopram to a maximum of 20 mg per day. See prescribing information for citalopram. Cilostazol Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of one of the active metabolites of cilostazol (3,4-dihydro-cilostazol) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily. See prescribing information for cilostazol. Phenytoin Clinical Impact: Potential for increased exposure of phenytoin. Intervention: Monitor phenytoin serum concentrations. Dose adjustment may be needed to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations. See prescribing information for phenytoin. Diazepam Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of diazepam [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Monitor patients for increased sedation and reduce the dose of diazepam as needed. Digoxin Clinical Impact: Potential for increased exposure of digoxin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Monitor digoxin concentrations. See digoxin prescribing information. Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption (e.g., iron salts, erlotinib, dasatinib, nilotinib, mycophenolate mofetil, ketoconazole/itraconazole) Clinical Impact: Omeprazole can reduce the absorption of other drugs due to its effect on reducing intragastric acidity. Intervention: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Co-administration of omeprazole in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH. The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving omeprazole and MMF. Use omeprazole with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. See the prescribing information for other drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption. Combination Therapy with Clarithromycin and Amoxicillin Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions, including potentially fatal arrhythmias, and are contraindicated. Amoxicillin also has drug interactions. Intervention: See Contraindications, Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin. See Drug Interactions in prescribing information for amoxicillin. Tacrolimus Clinical Impact: Potential for increased exposure of tacrolimus, especially in transplant patients who are intermediate or poor metabolizers of CYP2C19. Intervention: Monitor tacrolimus whole blood concentrations. See prescribing information for tacrolimus. Interactions with Investigations of Neuroendocrine Tumors Clinical Impact: Serum chromogranin A (CgA) levels increase secondary to PPI-induced decreases in gastric acidity. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ,Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Intervention: Temporarily stop omeprazole treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. If serial tests are performed (e.g., for monitoring), the same commercial laboratory should be used for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary. Interaction with Secretin Stimulation Test Clinical Impact: Hyper-response in gastrin secretion in response to secretin stimulation test, falsely suggesting gastrinoma. Intervention: Temporarily stop omeprazole treatment at least 14 days before assessing to allow gastrin levels to return to baseline [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact: There have been reports of false positive urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving PPIs. Intervention: An alternative confirmatory method should be considered to verify positive results. Other Clinical Impact: There have been clinical reports of interactions with other drugs metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system (e.g., cyclosporine, disulfiram). Intervention: Monitor patients to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of these other drugs when taken concomitantly with omeprazole. Table 4: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Omeprazole When Co-Administered with Other Drugs CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: Decreased exposure of omeprazole when used concomitantly with strong inducers [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: St. John’s Wort, rifampin: Avoid concomitant use with omeprazole [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. Ritonavir-containing products: see prescribing information for specific drugs. CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of omeprazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Voriconazole: Dose adjustment of omeprazole is not normally required. However, in patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, who may require higher doses, dose adjustment may be considered. See prescribing information for voriconazole. See full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions. ( 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Atazanavir and nelfinavir: Omeprazole reduces plasma levels of atazanavir and nelfinavir. Concomitant use is not recommended ( 7.1 ) • Saquinavir: Omeprazole increases plasma levels of saquinavir. Monitor for toxicity and consider dose reduction of saquinavir ( 7.1 ) • May interfere with drugs for which gastric pH affects bioavailability (e.g., ketoconazole, iron salts, erlotinib, ampicillin esters, and digoxin). Patients treated with omeprazole and digoxin may need to be monitored for increases in digoxin toxicity ( 7.2 ) • Clopidogrel: Omeprazole decreases exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel. ( 7.3 , 12.3 ) • Cilostazol: Omeprazole increases systemic exposure of cilostazol and one of its active metabolites. Consider dose reduction of cilostazol. ( 7.3 ) • Drugs metabolized by cytochrome P450 (e.g., diazepam, warfarin, phenytoin, cyclosporine, disulfiram, benzodiazepines): omeprazole can prolong their elimination. Monitor and determine need for dose adjustments ( 7.3 ) • Patients treated with proton pump inhibitors and warfarin may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time ( 7.3 ) • Combined inhibitor of CYP 2C19 and 3A4 (e.g. voriconazole) may raise omeprazole levels ( 7.3 ) • Tacrolimus: Omeprazole may increase serum levels of tacrolimus ( 7.4 ) • Methotrexate: Omeprazole may increase serum levels of methotrexate ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Interference with Antiretroviral Therapy Concomitant use of atazanavir and nelfinavir with proton pump inhibitors is not recommended. Co-administration of atazanavir with proton pump inhibitors is expected to substantially decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations and may result in a loss of therapeutic effect and the development of drug resistance. Co-‑administration of saquinavir with proton pump inhibitors is expected to increase saquinavir concentrations, which may increase toxicity and require dose reduction. Omeprazole has been reported to interact with some antiretroviral drugs. Increased gastric pH during omeprazole treatment may change the absorption of the antiretroviral drug. Other possible interaction mechanisms are via CYP 2C19. Reduced concentrations of atazanavir and nelfinavir For some antiretroviral drugs, such as atazanavir and nelfinavir, decreased serum levels have been reported when given together with omeprazole. Following multiple doses of nelfinavir (1250 mg, twice daily) and omeprazole (40 mg daily), AUC was decreased by 36% and 92%, C max by 37% and 89% and C min by 39% and 75% respectively for nelfinavir and M8. Following multiple doses of atazanavir (400 mg, daily) and omeprazole (40 mg, daily, 2 hr before atazanavir), AUC was decreased by 94%, C max by 96%, and C min by 95%. Concomitant administration with omeprazole and drugs such as atazanavir and nelfinavir is therefore not recommended. Increased concentrations of saquinavir For other antiretroviral drugs, such as saquinavir, elevated serum levels have been reported, with an increase in AUC by 82%, in C max by 75%, and in C min by 106%, following multiple dosing of saquinavir/ritonavir (1000/100 mg) twice daily for 15 days with omeprazole 40 mg daily co-administered days 11 to 15. Therefore, clinical and laboratory monitoring for saquinavir toxicity is recommended during concurrent use with omeprazole. Dose reduction of saquinavir should be considered from the safety perspective for individual patients. There are also some antiretroviral drugs of which unchanged serum levels have been reported when given with omeprazole. 7.2 Drugs for Which Gastric pH Can Affect Bioavailability Because of its profound and long lasting inhibition of gastric acid secretion, it is theoretically possible that omeprazole may interfere with absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of their bioavailability. Like with other drugs that decrease the intragastric acidity, the absorption of drugs such as ketoconazole, ampicillin esters, iron salts and erlotinib can decrease, while the absorption of drugs such as digoxin can increase during treatment with omeprazole. Concomitant treatment with omeprazole (20 mg daily) and digoxin in healthy subjects increased the bioavailability of digoxin by 10% (30% in two subjects). Therefore, patients may need to be monitored when digoxin is taken concomitantly with omeprazole. In the clinical trials, antacids were used concomitantly with the administration of omeprazole. 7.3 Effects on Hepatic Metabolism/Cytochrome P-450 Pathways Omeprazole can prolong the elimination of diazepam, warfarin and phenytoin, drugs that are metabolized by oxidation in the liver. There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving proton pump inhibitors, including omeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Patients treated with proton pump inhibitors and warfarin may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time. Although in normal subjects no interaction with theophylline or propranolol was found, there have been clinical reports of interaction with other drugs metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system (e.g., cyclosporine, disulfiram, benzodiazepines). Patients should be monitored to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of these drugs when taken concomitantly with omeprazole. Concomitant administration of omeprazole and voriconazole (a combined inhibitor of CYP2C19 and CYP3A4) resulted in more than doubling of the omeprazole exposure. Dose adjustment of omeprazole is not normally required. However, in patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, who may require higher doses up to 240 mg/day, dose adjustment may be considered. When voriconazole (400 mg Q12h x 1 day, then 200 mg x 6 days) was given with omeprazole (40 mg once daily x 7 days) to healthy subjects, it significantly increased the steady-state C max and AUC 0-24 of omeprazole, an average of 2 times (90% CI: 1.8, 2.6) and 4 times (90% CI: 3.3, 4.4) respectively as compared to when omeprazole was given without voriconazole. Omeprazole acts as an inhibitor of CYP 2C19. Omeprazole, given in doses of 40 mg daily for one week to 20 healthy subjects in cross-‑over study, increased C max and AUC of cilostazol by 18% and 26% respectively. C max and AUC of one of its active metabolites, 3,4-‑dihydro-cilostazol, which has 4 to 7 times the activity of cilostazol, were increased by 29% and 69% respectively. Co-administration of cilostazol with omeprazole is expected to increase concentrations of cilostazol and its above mentioned active metabolite. Therefore a dose reduction of cilostazol from 100 mg twice daily to 50 mg twice daily should be considered. Drugs known to induce CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 (such as rifampin) may lead to decreased omeprazole serum levels. In a cross-over study in 12 healthy male subjects, St John’s Wort (300 mg three times daily for 14 days), an inducer of CYP3A4, decreased the systemic exposure of omeprazole in CYP2C19 poor metabolisers (C max and AUC decreased by 37.5% and 37.9%, respectively) and extensive metabolisers (C max and AUC decreased by 49.6% and 43.9%, respectively). Avoid concomitant use of St. John’s Wort or rifampin with omeprazole. Clopidogrel Omeprazole is an inhibitor of CYP2C19 enzyme. Clopidogrel is metabolized to its active metabolite in part by CYP2C19. Concomitant use of omeprazole 80 mg results in reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in platelet inhibition. Avoid concomitant administration of omeprazole with clopidogrel. When using omeprazole, consider use of alternative anti-platelet therapy [ see Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ]. 7.4 Tacrolimus Concomitant administration of omeprazole and tacrolimus may increase the serum levels of tacrolimus. 7.5 Interactions with Investigations of Neuroendocrine Tumors Drug-induced decrease in gastric acidity results in enterochromaffin-like cell hyperplasia and increased Chromogranin A levels which may interfere with investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) and Clinical Pharmacology (12) ]. 7.6 Combination Therapy with Clarithromycin Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions due to drug interactions [see Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin]. Because of these drug interactions, clarithromycin is contraindicated for co-administration with certain drugs [see Contraindications in prescribing information for clarithromycin]. 7.7 Methotrexate Case reports, published population pharmacokinetic studies, and retrospective analyses suggest that concomitant administration of PPIs and methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate. However, no formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ]. Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine, atazanavir and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with omeprazole may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with omeprazole may increase toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. There are other antiretroviral drugs which do not result in clinically relevant interactions with omeprazole. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with omeprazole is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . CYP2C19 Substrates (e.g., clopidogrel, citalopram, cilostazol, phenytoin, diazepam) Clopidogrel Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of omeprazole 80 mg results in reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in platelet inhibition [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. There are no adequate combination studies of a lower dose of omeprazole or a higher dose of clopidogrel in comparison with the approved dose of clopidogrel . Citalopram Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of citalopram leading to an increased risk of QT prolongation [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Diazepam Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of diazepam [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Use omeprazole with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention: See Contraindications , Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin. Tacrolimus Clinical Impact: Potential for increased exposure of tacrolimus, especially in transplant patients who are intermediate or poor metabolizers of CYP2C19 . The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Intervention: Temporarily stop omeprazole treatment at least 14 days before assessing to allow gastrin levels to return to baseline [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] .

=== CETIRIZINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antihistamine Antihistamine
Indications: Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: runny nose sneezing itchy, watery eyes itching of the nose or throat Uses Temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: runny nose itchy, watery eyes sneezing itching of the nose or throat Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: • runny nose • sneezing • itchy, watery eyes • itching of the nose or throat Temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: • runny nose, • sneezing, • itchy, watery eyes, • itching of the nose or throat INDICATIONS AND USAGE Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Cetirizine hydrochloride oral solution, USP is indicated for the relief of symptoms associated with perennial allergic rhinitis due to allergens such as dust mites, animal dander and molds in children 6 to 23 months of age. Symptoms treated effectively include sneezing, rhinorrhea, postnasal discharge, nasal pruritus, ocular pruritus, and tearing. Chronic Urticaria Cetirizine hydrochloride oral solution, USP is indicated for the treatment of the uncomplicated skin manifestations of chronic idiopathic urticaria in children 6 months to 5 years of age. It significantly reduces the occurrence, severity, and duration of hives and significantly reduces pruritus. Temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: runny nose, sneezing, itchy, watery eys, itching of the nose or throat
Dosage: Directions may be taken with or without water chew or crush tablets completely before swallowing children 2 to under 6 years of age Chew and swallow 1 tablet (2.5 mg) once daily; If needed, dose can be increased to a maximum of 2 tablets (5 mg) once daily or 1 tablet (2.5 mg) every 12 hours. Do not give more than 2 tablets (5 mg) in 24 hours. adults and children 6 years and over Chew and swallow 2 tablets (5 mg) or 4 tablets (10 mg) once daily depending upon severity of symptoms; do not take more than 4 tablets (10 mg) in 24 hours. adults 65 years and over Chew and swallow 2 tablets (5 mg) once daily; do not take more than 2 tablets (5 mg) in 24 hours. children under 2 years of age ask a doctor consumers with liver or kidney disease ask a doctor Directions use only with enclosed dosing cup find right dose on chart below mL = milliliter adults and children 6 years and over 5 mL or 10 mL once daily depending upon severity of symptoms; do not take more than 10 mL in 24 hours.. adults 65 years and older 5 mL once daily; do not take more than 5 mL in 24 hours children 2 to under 6 years of age 2.5 mL once daily. If needed, dose can be increased to a maximum of 5 mL once daily or 2.5 mL every 12 hours. Do not give more than 5 mL in 24 hours. Directions Adults and children 6 years and over One 10 mg capsule once daily; do not take more than one 10 mg capsule in 24 hours. A 5 mg product may be appropriate for less severe symptoms. Adults 65 years and over ask a doctor. Children under 6 years of age ask a doctor Consumers with liver or kidney disease ask a doctor Directions • use only with enclosed dosing cup • find right dose on chart below • mL = milliliter adults and children 6 years and over 5 mL or 10 mL once daily depending upon severity of symptoms; do not take more than 10 mL in 24 hours. adults 65 years and over 5 mL once daily; do not take more than 5 mL in 24 hours. children 2 to under 6 years of age 2.5 mL once daily. Directions adults and children 6 years and over one 10 mg tablet once daily; do not take more than one 10 mg tablet in 24 hours. adults 65 years and over ask a doctor children under 6 years of age ask a doctor consumers with liver or kidney disease ask a doctor Cetirizine Hydrochloride Tablets, USP 5 mg adults and children 6 years and over 1 tablet (5 mg) or 2 tablets (10) once daily depending upon severity of symptoms; do not take more than 2 tablets (10) in 24 hours. adults 65 years and over 1 tablet (5 mg) once a day; do not take more than 1 tablet (5 mg) in 24 hours. children under 6 years of age ask a doctor consumers with liver or kidney disease ask a doctor Cetirizine Hydrochloride Tablets, USP 10 mg adults and children 6 years and over one 10 mg tablet once daily; do not take more than one 10 mg tablet in 24 hours. Directions adults and children 6 years and over take one 10 mg tablet oncedaily; do not take more than one 10mg tablet in 24 hours. A 5mg product may be appropriate for less severe symptoms. adults 65 years and older ask a doctor children under 6 years of age ask a doctor consumers with liver or kidney disease ask a doctor DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Cetirizine hydrochloride oral solution, USP can be taken without regard to food consumption. Children 2 to 5 Years for Chronic Urticaria: The recommended initial dose of cetirizine hydrochloride oral solution, USP in children aged 2 to 5 years is 2.5 mg (½ teaspoonful) oral solution once daily. The dosage in this age group can be increased to a maximum dose of 5 mg per day given as 1 teaspoonful oral solution once a day or one ½ teaspoonful oral solution given every 12 hours. Children 6 months to < 2 years For Perennial Allergic Rhinitis and Chronic Urticaria: The recommended dose of cetirizine hydrochloride oral solution, USP in children 6 months to 23 months of age is 2.5 mg (½ teaspoonful) once daily. The dose in children 12 to 23 months of age can be increased to a maximum dose of 5 mg per day, given as ½ teaspoonful (2.5 mg) every 12 hours. Adult and children over 6 years old: One 10mg tablet once daily: no more than one 10mg tablet in 24 hours. A 5mg product may be appropriate for less severe symptoms Adults 65 years and over: ask a doctor Children under 6 years of age: ask a doctor Consumers with liver or kidney disease : ask a doctor
Warnings: Warnings Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients or to an antihistamine containing hydroxyzine. Ask a doctor before use if you have liver or kidney disease. Your doctor should determine if you need a different dose. Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking tranquilizers or sedatives. When using this product drowsiness may occur avoid alcoholic drinks alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs. Seek medical help right away. If pregnant or breast-feeding if breast-feeding: not recommended if pregnant: ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222) In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Warning When using this product • drowsiness may occur • avoid alcoholic drinks • alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness • be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs. If pregnant or breast-feeding: • if breast-feeding: not recommended • if pregnant: ask a health professional before use. Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers. If pregnant or breast-feeding: if breast-feeding: not recommended if pregnant: ask a health professional before use. (1-800-222-1222). Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients or an antihistamine containing hydroxyzine Ask a doctor before useif you have liver or kidney disease. Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking tranquilizers or sedatives When using this product • drowsiness may occur • avoid alcoholic drinks • alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness • be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222) Warnings Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients or to an antihistamine containing hydroxyine. When using this product: drowsiness may occur avoid alcoholic drinks alcohol, sedatives and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs. If pregnant or breast-feeding: if breast-feeding: not recommended if pregnant: ask a health professional before use Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients or an antihistamine containing hydroxyzine Ask a doctor before use if you have liver or kidney disease. Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product drowsiness may occur. Avoid alcoholic drinks. Alcohol, sedatives and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness. Be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery. Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Cetirizine hydrochloride oral solution, USP is contraindicated in those patients with a known hypersensitivity to it or any of its ingredients or hydroxyzine.

=== LEVOTHYROXINE SODIUM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypothyroidism Levothyroxine sodium tablets are indicated in adult and pediatric patients, including neonates, as a replacement therapy in primary (thyroidal), secondary (pituitary), and tertiary (hypothalamic) congenital or acquired hypothyroidism. Pituitary Thyrotropin (Thyroid‑Stimulating Hormone, TSH) Suppression Levothyroxine sodium tablets are indicated in adult and pediatric patients, including neonates, as an adjunct to surgery and radioiodine therapy in the management of thyrotropin-dependent well-differentiated thyroid cancer. Limitations of Use Levothyroxine sodium tablets are not indicated for suppression of benign thyroid nodules and nontoxic diffuse goiter in iodine-sufficient patients as there are no clinical benefits and overtreatment with levothyroxine sodium may induce hyperthyroidism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Levothyroxine sodium tablets are not indicated for treatment of hypothyroidism during the recovery phase of subacute thyroiditis. Levothyroxine sodium tablets are a L-thyroxine (T4) indicated in adult and pediatric patients, including neonates, for: Hypothyroidism: As replacement therapy in primary (thyroidal), secondary (pituitary), and tertiary (hypothalamic) congenital or acquired hypothyroidism. (1) Pituitary Thyrotropin (Thyroid‑Stimulating Hormone, TSH) Suppression: As an adjunct to surgery and radioiodine therapy in the management of thyrotropin-dependent well-differentiated thyroid cancer. (1) Limitations of Use: Not indicated for suppression of benign thyroid nodules and nontoxic diffuse goiter in iodine-sufficient patients Not indicated for treatment of hypothyroidism during the recovery phase of subacute thyroiditis 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets are L-thyroxine (T4) indicated for: • Hypothyroidism: As replacement therapy in primary (thyroidal), secondary (pituitary), and tertiary (hypothalamic) congenital or acquired hypothyroidism. ( 1 ) • Pituitary Thyrotropin (Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone, TSH) Suppression: As an adjunct to surgery and radioiodine therapy in the management of thyrotropin-dependent well-differentiated thyroid cancer. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use: - Not indicated for suppression of benign thyroid nodules and nontoxic diffuse goiter in iodine-sufficient patients. - Not indicated for treatment of hypothyroidism during the recovery phase of subacute thyroiditis. Hypothyroidism Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets are indicated as a replacement therapy in primary (thyroidal), secondary (pituitary), and tertiary (hypothalamic) congenital or acquired hypothyroidism. Pituitary Thyrotropin (Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone, TSH) Suppression Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets are indicated as an adjunct to surgery and radioiodine therapy in the management of thyrotropin-dependent well-differentiated thyroid cancer. Limitations of Use: • Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets are not indicated for suppression of benign thyroid nodules and nontoxic diffuse goiter in iodine-sufficient patients as there are no clinical benefits and overtreatment with Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets may induce hyperthyroidism [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. • Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets are not indicated for treatment of hypothyroidism during the recovery phase of subacute thyroiditis. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypothyroidism Levothyroxine sodium tablets are indicated as a replacement therapy in primary (thyroidal), secondary (pituitary) and tertiary (hypothalamic) congenital or acquired hypothyroidism. Limitations of Use: • Levothyroxine sodium tablets are not indicated for suppression of benign thyroid nodules and nontoxic diffuse goiter in iodine-sufficient patients as there are no clinical benefits and overtreatment with levothyroxine sodium tablets may induce hyperthyroidism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. Levothyroxine sodium tablets is L-thyroxine (T4) indicated for: • Hypothyroidism: As replacement therapy in primary (thyroidal), secondary (pituitary) and tertiary (hypothalamic) congenital or acquired hypothyroidism. (1) • Pituitary Thyrotropin (Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone, TSH) Suppression: As an adjunct to surgery and radioiodine therapy in the management of thyrotropin-dependent well-differentiated thyroid cancer. (1) Limitations of Use: - Not indicated for suppression of benign thyroid nodules and nontoxic diffuse goiter in iodine-sufficient patients. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levothyroxine sodium is used for the following indications: Hypothyroidism - As replacement or supplemental therapy in congenital or acquired hypothyroidism of any etiology, except transient hypothyroidism during the recovery phase of subacute thyroiditis. Specific indications include: primary (thyroidal), secondary (pituitary), and tertiary (hypothalamic) hypothyroidism and subclinical hypothyroidism. Primary hypothyroidism may result from functional deficiency, primary atrophy, partial or total congenital absence of the thyroid gland, or from the effects of surgery, radiation, or drugs, with or without the presence of goiter. Pituitary TSH Suppression - In the treatment or prevention of various types of euthyroid goiters (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ), including thyroid nodules (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ), subacute or chronic Iymphocytic thyroiditis (Hashimoto's thyroiditis), multinodular goiter (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ), and, as an adjunct to surgery and radioiodine therapy in the management of thyrotropin-dependent well-differentiated thyroid cancer. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypothyroidism UNITHROID is indicated in pediatric and adult patients as a replacement therapy in primary (thyroidal), secondary (pituitary), and tertiary (hypothalamic) congenital or acquired hypothyroidism. Pituitary Thyrotropin (Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone, TSH) Suppression UNITHROID is indicated in pediatric and adult patients as an adjunct to surgery and radioiodine therapy in the management of thyrotropin-dependent well-differentiated thyroid cancer. Limitations of Use: UNITHROID is not indicated for suppression of benign thyroid nodules and nontoxic diffuse goiter in iodine-sufficient patients as there are no clinical benefits and overtreatment with UNITHROID may induce hyperthyroidism [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . UNITHROID is not indicated for treatment of hypothyroidism during the recovery phase of subacute thyroiditis. UNITHROID is L-thyroxine (T4) indicated in pediatric and adult patients for: Hypothyroidism: As replacement in primary (thyroidal), secondary (pituitary), and tertiary (hypothalamic) congenital or acquired hypothyroidism. ( 1 ) Pituitary Thyrotropin (Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone, TSH) Suppression: As an adjunct to surgery and radioiodine therapy in the management of thyrotropin-dependent well-differentiated thyroid cancer. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use: Not indicated for suppression of benign thyroid nodules and nontoxic diffuse goiter in iodine-sufficient patients. ( 1 ) Not indicated for treatment of hypothyroidism during the recovery phase of subacute thyroiditis. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levothyroxine Sodium Injection is indicated for the treatment of myxedema coma. Levothyroxine Sodium Injection is L-thyroxine (T4) indicated in adult patients for the treatment of myxedema coma. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use: Not recommended as a substitute for oral levothyroxine sodium because the relative bioavailability of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection to oral levothyroxine sodium has not been established and there is a risk of inaccurate dose conversion. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypothyroidism THYQUIDITY is indicated as a replacement therapy in primary (thyroidal), secondary (pituitary), and tertiary (hypothalamic) congenital or acquired hypothyroidism. Pituitary Thyrotropin (Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone, TSH) Suppression THYQUIDITY is indicated as an adjunct to surgery and radioiodine therapy in the management of thyrotropin-dependent well-differentiated thyroid cancer. Limitations of Use: THYQUIDITY is not indicated for suppression of benign thyroid nodules and nontoxic diffuse goiter in iodine-sufficient patients as there are no clinical benefits and overtreatment with THYQUIDITY may induce hyperthyroidism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. THYQUIDITY is not indicated for treatment of hypothyroidism during the recovery phase of subacute thyroiditis. THYQUIDITY is levothyroxine sodium (T4) indicated for: Hypothyroidism: As replacement therapy in primary (thyroidal), secondary (pituitary), and tertiary (hypothalamic) congenital or acquired hypothyroidism. (1) Pituitary Thyrotropin (Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone, TSH) Suppression: As an adjunct to surgery and radioiodine therapy in the management of thyrotropin-dependent well-differentiated thyroid cancer. Pituitary Thyrotropin (Thyroid ‑ Stimulating Hormone, TSH) Suppression Levothyroxine sodium tablets are indicated in adult and pediatric patients, including neonates, as an adjunct to surgery and radioiodine therapy in the management of thyrotropin-dependent well-differentiated thyroid cancer. Limitations of Use: • Levothyroxine sodium tablets are not indicated for suppression of benign thyroid nodules and nontoxic diffuse goiter in iodine-sufficient patients as there are no clinical benefits and overtreatment with levothyroxine sodium may induce hyperthyroidism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Levothyroxine sodium tablets are a L-thyroxine (T4) indicated in adult and pediatric patients, including neonates, for: • Hypothyroidism: As replacement therapy in primary (thyroidal), secondary (pituitary), and tertiary (hypothalamic) congenital or acquired hypothyroidism. (1) • Pituitary Thyrotropin (Thyroid‑Stimulating Hormone, TSH) Suppression: As an adjunct to surgery and radioiodine therapy in the management of thyrotropin-dependent well-differentiated thyroid cancer. (1) Limitations of Use: • Not indicated for suppression of benign thyroid nodules and nontoxic diffuse goiter in iodine-sufficient patients • Not indicated for treatment of hypothyroidism during the recovery phase of subacute thyroiditis Pituitary Thyrotropin (Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone, TSH) Suppression Levothyroxine sodium tablets are indicated in adult and pediatric patients, including neonates, as an adjunct to surgery and radioiodine therapy in the management of thyrotropin-dependent well-differentiated thyroid cancer. Limitations of Use Levothyroxine sodium tablets are not indicated for suppression of benign thyroid nodules and nontoxic diffuse goiter in iodine-sufficient patients as there are no clinical benefits and overtreatment with levothyroxine sodium tablets may induce hyperthyroidism [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Levothyroxine sodium tablet is a L-thyroxine (T4) indicated in adult and pediatric patients, including neonates, for: Hypothyroidism: As replacement therapy in primary (thyroidal), secondary (pituitary), and tertiary (hypothalamic) congenital or acquired hypothyroidism. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use Not indicated for suppression of benign thyroid nodules and nontoxic diffuse goiter in iodine-sufficient patients. Not indicated for treatment of hypothyroidism during the recovery phase of subacute thyroiditis.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer once daily, preferably on an empty stomach, one-half to one hour before breakfast with a full glass of water. (2.1) Administer at least 4 hours before or after drugs that are known to interfere with absorption. (2.1) Evaluate the need for dose adjustments when regularly administering within one hour of certain foods that may affect absorption. (2.1) Advise patients to stop biotin and biotin-containing supplements at least 2 days before assessing TSH and/or T4 levels. (2.2) Starting dose depends on a variety of factors, including age, body weight, cardiovascular status, and concomitant medications. Peak therapeutic effect may not be attained for 4 to 6 weeks. (2.2) See full prescribing information for dosing in specific patient populations. (2.3) Adequacy of therapy determined with periodic monitoring of TSH and/or T4 as well as clinical status. (2.4) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Administer levothyroxine sodium tablets as a single daily dose, on an empty stomach, one-half to one hour before breakfast with a full glass of water to avoid choking or gagging [see Adverse Reactions (6) ]. Administer levothyroxine sodium tablets at least 4 hours before or after drugs known to interfere with levothyroxine sodium absorption [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. Evaluate the need for dosage adjustments when regularly administering within one hour of certain foods that may affect levothyroxine sodium tablets absorption [see Dosage and Administration (2.2 and 2.3) , Drug Interactions (7.9), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Administer levothyroxine sodium tablets to pediatric patients who cannot swallow intact tablets by crushing the tablet, suspending the freshly crushed tablet in a small amount (5 to 10 mL) of water and immediately administering the suspension by spoon or dropper. Ensure the patient ingests the full amount of the suspension. Do not store the suspension. Do not administer in foods that decrease absorption of levothyroxine sodium tablets, such as soybean-based infant formula [see Drug Interactions (7.9) ]. 2.2 Important Considerations for Dosing The dosage of levothyroxine sodium tablets for hypothyroidism or pituitary TSH suppression depends on a variety of factors including: the patient's age, body weight, cardiovascular status, concomitant medical conditions (including pregnancy), concomitant medications, co-administered food and the specific nature of the condition being treated [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) , Warnings and Precautions (5) , and Drug Interactions (7) ] . Dosing must be individualized to account for these factors and dosage adjustments made based on periodic assessment of the patient's clinical response and laboratory parameters [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ]. For adult patients with primary hypothyroidism, titrate until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum TSH returns to normal [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. For secondary or tertiary hypothyroidism, serum TSH is not a reliable measure of levothyroxine sodium dosage adequacy and should not be used to monitor therapy. Use the serum free-T4 level to titrate levothyroxine sodium tablets dosing until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum free-T4 level is restored to the upper half of the normal range [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. Inquire whether patients are taking biotin or biotin-containing supplements. If so, advise them to stop biotin supplementation at least 2 days before assessing TSH and/or T4 levels [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Drug Interactions (7.10) ]. The peak therapeutic effect of a given dose of levothyroxine sodium tablets may not be attained for 4 to 6 weeks. 2.3 Recommended Dosage and Titration Primary, Secondary, and Tertiary Hypothyroidism in Adults The recommended starting daily dosage of levothyroxine sodium tablets in adults with primary, secondary, or tertiary hypothyroidism is based on age and comorbid cardiac conditions, as described in Table 1. For patients at risk of atrial fibrillation or patients with underlying cardiac disease, start with a lower dosage and titrate the dosage more slowly to avoid exacerbation of cardiac symptoms. Dosage titration is based on serum TSH or free-T4 [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. Table 1. Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets Dosing Guidelines for Hypothyroidism in Adults* *Dosages greater than 200 mcg/day are seldom required. An inadequate response to daily dosages greater than 300 mcg/day is rare and may indicate poor compliance, malabsorption, drug interactions, or a combination of these factors [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) and Drug Interactions (7) ]. Patient Population Starting Dosage Dosage Titration Based on serum TSH or Free-T4 Adults diagnosed with hypothyroidism Full replacement dose is 1.6 mcg/kg/day. Some patients require a lower starting dose. Titrate dosage by 12.5 to 25 mcg increments every 4 to 6 weeks, as needed until the patient is euthyroid. Adults at risk for atrial fibrillation or with underlying cardiac disease Lower starting dose (less than 1.6 mcg/kg/day) Titrate dosage every 6 to 8 weeks, as needed until the patient is euthyroid. Geriatric patients Lower starting dose (less than 1.6 mcg/kg/day) Primary, Secondary, and Tertiary Hypothyroidism in Pediatric Patients The recommended starting daily dosage of levothyroxine sodium tablets in pediatric patients with primary, secondary, or tertiary hypothyroidism is based on body weight and changes with age as described in Table 2. Titrate the dosage (every 2 weeks) as needed based on serum TSH or free-T4 until the patient is euthyroid [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. Table 2. Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets Dosing Guidelines for Hypothyroidism in Pediatric Patients Age Starting Daily Dosage Per Kg Body Weight* 0 to 3 months 10 to 15 mcg/kg/day 3 to 6 months 8 to 10 mcg/kg/day 6 to 12 months 6 to 8 mcg/kg/day 1 to 5 years 5 to 6 mcg/kg/day 6 to 12 years 4 to 5 mcg/kg/day Greater than 12 years but growth and puberty incomplete 2 to 3 mcg/kg/day Growth and puberty complete 1.6 mcg/kg/day *Adjust dosage based on clinical response and laboratory parameters [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . Pediatric Patients from Birth to 3 Months of Age at Risk for Cardiac Failure Start at a lower starting dosage and increase the dosage every 4 to 6 weeks as needed based on clinical and laboratory response. Pediatric Patients at Risk for Hyperactivity To minimize the risk of hyperactivity, start at one-fourth the recommended full replacement dosage, and increase on a weekly basis by one-fourth the full recommended replacement dosage until the full recommended replacement dosage is reached. Hypothyroidism in Pregnant Patients For pregnant patients with pre-existing hypothyroidism, measure serum TSH and free-T4 as soon as pregnancy is confirmed and, at minimum, during each trimester of pregnancy. In pregnant patients with primary hypothyroidism, maintain serum TSH in the trimester-specific reference range. The recommended daily dosage of levothyroxine sodium tablets in pregnant patients is described in Table 3. Table 3. Levothyroxine Sodium Tablet Dosing Guidelines for Hypothyroidism in Pregnant Patients Patient Population Starting Dosage Dose Adjustment and Titration Pre-existing primary hypothyroidism with serum TSH above normal trimester- specific range Pre-pregnancy dosage may increase during pregnancy Increase levothyroxine sodium dosage by 12.5 to 25 mcg per day. Monitor TSH every 4 weeks until a stable dose is reached and serum TSH is within normal trimester-specific range. Reduce levothyroxine sodium dosage to pre-pregnancy levels immediately after delivery. Monitor serum TSH 4 to 8 weeks postpartum. New onset hypothyroidism (TSH ≥10 mIU per liter) 1.6 mcg/kg/day Monitor serum TSH every 4 weeks and adjust levothyroxine sodium dosage until serum TSH is within normal trimester-specific range. New onset hypothyroidism (TSH < 10 mIU per liter) 1.0 mcg/kg/day TSH Suppression in Well-differentiated Thyroid Cancer in Adult and Pediatric Patients The levothyroxine sodium dosage is based on the target level of TSH suppression for the stage and clinical status of thyroid cancer. 2.4 Monitoring TSH and/or Thyroxine (T4) Levels Assess the adequacy of therapy by periodic assessment of laboratory tests and clinical evaluation. Biotin supplementation may interfere with immunoassays for TSH, T4, and T3, resulting in erroneous thyroid hormone test results. Stop biotin and biotin-containing supplements for at least 2 days before assessing TSH and/or T4 levels [see Drug Interactions (7.10) ] . Persistent clinical and laboratory evidence of hypothyroidism despite an apparent adequate replacement dose of levothyroxine sodium may be evidence of inadequate absorption, poor compliance, drug interactions, or a combination of these factors. Adults In adult patients with primary hypothyroidism, monitor serum TSH levels after an interval of 6 to 8 weeks after any change in dosage. In patients on a stable and appropriate replacement dosage, evaluate clinical and biochemical response every 6 to 12 months and whenever there is a change in the patient’s clinical status. Pediatric Patients In patients with hypothyroidism, assess the adequacy of replacement therapy by measuring both serum TSH and total or free-T4. Monitor TSH and total or free-T4 in pediatric patients as follows: 2 and 4 weeks after the initiation of treatment, 2 weeks after any change in dosage, and then every 3 to 12 months thereafter following dosage stabilization until growth is completed. Poor compliance or abnormal values may necessitate more frequent monitoring. Perform routine clinical examination, including assessment of development, mental and physical growth, and bone maturation, at regular intervals. The general aim of therapy is to normalize the serum TSH level. TSH may not normalize in some patients due to in utero hypothyroidism causing a resetting of pituitary-thyroid feedback. Failure of the serum T4 to increase into the upper half of the normal range within 2 weeks of initiation of levothyroxine sodium therapy and/or of the serum TSH to decrease below 20 mIU per litre within 4 weeks may indicate the patient is not receiving adequate therapy. Assess compliance, dose of medication administered, and method of administration prior to increasing the dose of levothyroxine sodium [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . Secondary and Tertiary Hypothyroidism Monitor serum free-T4 levels and maintain in the upper half of the normal range in these patients. 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Administer levothyroxine sodium tablets as a single daily dose, on an empty stomach, one-half to one hour before breakfast with a full glass of water to avoid choking or gagging [see Adverse Reactions (6) ]. Primary, Secondary, and Tertiary Hypothyroidism in Adults The recommended starting daily dosage of levothyroxine sodium tablets in adults with primary, secondary, or tertiary hypothyroidism is based on age and comorbid cardiac conditions, as described in Table 1. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer once daily, preferably on an empty stomach, one-half to one hour before breakfast. ( 2.1 ) • Administer at least 4 hours before or after drugs that are known to interfere with absorption. ( 2.1 ) • Evaluate the need for dose adjustments when regularly administering within one hour of certain foods that may affect absorption. ( 2.1 ) • Starting dose depends on a variety of factors, including age, body weight, cardiovascular status, and concomitant medications. Peak therapeutic effect may not be attained for 4-6 weeks. ( 2.2 ) • See full prescribing information for dosing in specific patient populations. ( 2.3 ) • Adequacy of therapy determined with periodic monitoring of TSH and/or T4 as well as clinical status. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 General Administration Information Administer Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets as a single daily dose, on an empty stomach, one-half to one hour before breakfast. Administer Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets at least 4 hours before or after drugs known to interfere with Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets absorption [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . Evaluate the need for dose adjustments when regularly administering within one hour of certain foods that may affect Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets absorption [see Drug Interactions ( 7.9 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Administer Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets to infants and children who cannot swallow intact tablets by crushing the tablet, suspending the freshly crushed tablet in a small amount (5 mL to 10 mL or 1 teaspoon to 2 teaspoons) of water and immediately administering the suspension by spoon or dropper. Do not administer in foods that decrease absorption of Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets, such as soybean-based infant formula [see Drug Interactions ( 7.9 )] . 2.2 General Principles of Dosing The dose of Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets for hypothyroidism or pituitary TSH suppression depends on a variety of factors including: the patient's age, body weight, cardiovascular status, concomitant medical conditions (including pregnancy), concomitant medications, co-administered food and the specific nature of the condition being treated [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) , and Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . Dosing must be individualized to account for these factors and dose adjustments made based on periodic assessment of the patient's clinical response and laboratory parameters [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )] . 2.3 Dosing in Specific Patient Populations Primary Hypothyroidism in Adults and in Adolescents in Whom Growth and Puberty are Complete Start Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets at the full replacement dose in otherwise healthy, non-elderly individuals who have been hypothyroid for only a short time (such as a few months). The average full replacement dose of Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets is approximately 1.6 mcg per kg per day (for example: 100 mcg per day to 125 mcg per day for a 70 kg adult). Adjust the dose by 12.5 mcg to 25 mcg increments every 4 to 6 weeks until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum TSH returns to normal. Doses greater than 200 mcg per day are seldom required. An inadequate response to daily doses of greater than 300 mcg per day is rare and may indicate poor compliance, malabsorption, drug interactions, or a combination of these factors. For elderly patients or patients with underlying cardiac disease, start with a dose of 12.5 mcg per day to 25 mcg per day. Increase the dose every 6 to 8 weeks, as needed until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum TSH returns to normal. The full replacement dose of Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets may be less than 1 mcg per kg per day in elderly patients. In patients with severe longstanding hypothyroidism, start with a dose of 12.5 mcg per day to 25 mcg per day. Adjust the dose in 12.5 mcg to 25 mcg increments every 2 to 4 weeks until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum TSH level is normalized. Secondary or Tertiary Hypothyroidism Start Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets at the full replacement dose in otherwise healthy, non-elderly individuals. Start with a lower dose in elderly patients, patients with underlying cardiovascular disease or patients with severe longstanding hypothyroidism as described above. Serum TSH is not a reliable measure of Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets dose adequacy in patients with secondary or tertiary hypothyroidism and should not be used to monitor therapy. Use the serum free-T4 (L-thyroxine) level to monitor adequacy of therapy in this patient population. Titrate Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets dosing per above instructions until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum free-T4 level is restored to the upper half of the normal range. Pediatric Dosage - Congenital or Acquired Hypothyroidism The recommended daily dose of Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets in pediatric patients with hypothyroidism is based on body weight and changes with age as described in Table 1. Start Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets at the full daily dose in most pediatric patients. Start at a lower starting dose in newborns (0-3 months) at risk for cardiac failure and in children at risk for hyperactivity (see below). Monitor for clinical and laboratory response [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )]. Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets Dosing Guidelines for Pediatric Hypothyroidism AGE Daily Dose Per Kg Body Weight The dose should be adjusted based on clinical response and laboratory parameters [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . 0-3 months 10 mcg/kg/day to 15 mcg/kg/day 3-6 months 8 mcg/kg/day to 10 mcg/kg/day 6-12 months 6 mcg/kg/day to 8 mcg/kg/day 1-5 years 5 mcg/kg/day to 6 mcg/kg/day 6-12 years 4 mcg/kg/day to 5 mcg/kg/day Greater than 12 years but growth and puberty incomplete 2 mcg/kg/day to 3 mcg/kg/day Growth and puberty complete 1.6 mcg/kg/day Newborns (0-3 months) at risk for cardiac failure : Consider a lower starting dose in newborns at risk for cardiac failure. Increase the dose every 4 to 6 weeks as needed based on clinical and laboratory response. Children at risk for hyperactivity : To minimize the risk of hyperactivity in children, start at one-fourth the recommended full replacement dose, and increase on a weekly basis by one-fourth the full recommended replacement dose until the full recommended replacement dose is reached. Pregnancy Pre-existing Hypothyroidism: Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets dose requirements may increase during pregnancy. Measure serum TSH and free-T4 as soon as pregnancy is confirmed and, at minimum, during each trimester of pregnancy. In patients with primary hypothyroidism, maintain serum TSH in the trimester-specific reference range. For patients with serum TSH above the normal trimester-specific range, increase the dose of Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets by 12.5 mcg/day to 25 mcg/day and measure TSH every 4 weeks until a stable Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets dose is reached and serum TSH is within the normal trimester-specific range. Reduce Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets dosage to pre-pregnancy levels immediately after delivery and measure serum TSH levels 4 to 8 weeks postpartum to ensure Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets dose is appropriate. New Onset Hypothyroidism: Normalize thyroid function as rapidly as possible. In patients with moderate to severe signs and symptoms of hypothyroidism, start Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets at the full replacement dose (1.6 mcg per kg body weight per day). In patients with mild hypothyroidism (TSH less than 10 units per liter) start Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets at 1 mcg per kg body weight per day. Evaluate serum TSH every 4 weeks and adjust Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets dosage until a serum TSH is within the normal trimester specific range [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 )] . TSH Suppression in Well-differentiated Thyroid Cancer Generally, TSH is suppressed to below 0.1 units per liter, and this usually requires a Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets dose of greater than 2 mcg per kg per day. However, in patients with high-risk tumors, the target level for TSH suppression may be lower. Persistent clinical and laboratory evidence of hypothyroidism despite an apparent adequate replacement dose of Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets may be evidence of inadequate absorption, poor compliance, drug interactions, or a combination of these factors. Adults In adult patients with primary hypothyroidism, monitor serum TSH levels after an interval of 6 to 8 weeks after any change in dose. In patients on a stable and appropriate replacement dose, evaluate clinical and biochemical response every 6 to 12 months and whenever there is a change in the patient's clinical status. Pediatrics In patients with congenital hypothyroidism, assess the adequacy of replacement therapy by measuring both serum TSH and total or free-T4. Monitor TSH and total or free-T4 in children as follows: 2 and 4 weeks after the initiation of treatment, 2 weeks after any change in dosage, and then every 3 to 12 months thereafter following dose stabilization until growth is completed. While the general aim of therapy is to normalize the serum TSH level, TSH may not normalize in some patients due to in utero hypothyroidism causing a resetting of pituitary-thyroid feedback. Failure of the serum T4 to increase into the upper half of the normal range within 2 weeks of initiation of Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets therapy and/or of the serum TSH to decrease below 20 units per liter within 4 weeks may indicate the child is not receiving adequate therapy. Assess compliance, dose of medication administered, and method of administration prior to increasing the dose of Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] . (2.1) • Administer at least 4 hours before or after drugs that are known to interfere with absorption. (2.1) • Evaluate the need for dose adjustments when regularly administering within one hour of certain foods that may affect absorption. (2.1) • Starting dose depends on a variety of factors, including age, body weight, cardiovascular status and concomitant medications. (2.2) • See full prescribing information for dosing in specific patient populations. (2.3) • Adequacy of therapy determined with periodic monitoring of TSH and/or T4 as well as clinical status. (2.4) 2.1 General Administration Information Take levothyroxine sodium tablets with a full glass of water as the tablet may rapidly disintegrate. Administer levothyroxine sodium tablets as a single daily dose, on an empty stomach, one-half to one hour before breakfast. Administer levothyroxine sodium tablets at least 4 hours before or after drugs known to interfere with levothyroxine sodium tablets absorption [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. Evaluate the need for dose adjustments when regularly administering within one hour of certain foods that may affect levothyroxine sodium tablets absorption [see Drug Interactions (7.9) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Administer levothyroxine sodium tablets to infants and children who cannot swallow intact tablets by crushing the tablet, suspending the freshly crushed tablet in a small amount (5 to 10 mL or 1 to 2 teaspoons) of water and immediately administering the suspension by spoon or dropper. Do not administer in foods that decrease absorption of levothyroxine sodium tablets, such as soybean-based infant formula [see Drug Interactions (7.9)]. 2.2 General Principles of Dosing The dose of levothyroxine sodium tablets for hypothyroidism or pituitary TSH suppression depends on a variety of factors including: the patient's age, body weight, cardiovascular status, concomitant medical conditions (including pregnancy), concomitant medications, co-administered food and the specific nature of the condition being treated [see Dosage and Administration (2.3), Warnings and Precautions (5) , and Drug Interactions (7)]. Dosing must be individualized to account for these factors and dose adjustments made based on periodic assessment of the patient's clinical response and laboratory parameters [see Dosage and Administration (2.4)]. The average full replacement dose of levothyroxine sodium tablets is approximately 1.6 mcg per kg per day (for example: 100 to 125 mcg per day for a 70 kg adult). Adjust the dose by 12.5 to 25 mcg increments every 4 to 6 weeks until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum TSH returns to normal. For elderly patients or patients with underlying cardiac disease, start with a dose of 12.5 to 25 mcg per day. In patients with severe longstanding hypothyroidism, start with a dose of 12.5 to 25 mcg per day. Adjust the dose in 12.5 to 25 mcg increments every 2 to 4 weeks until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum TSH level is normalized. Use the serum free-T4 level to monitor adequacy of therapy in this patient population. Monitor for clinical and laboratory response [see Dosage and Administration (2.4)]. Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets Dosing Guidelines for Pediatric Hypothyroidism AGE Daily Dose Per Kg Body Weight 0-3 months 10-15 mcg/kg/day 3-6 months 8-10 mcg/kg/day 6-12 months 6-8 mcg/kg/day 1-5 years 5-6 mcg/kg/day 6-12 years 4-5 mcg/kg/day Greater than 12 years but growth and puberty incomplete 2-3 mcg/kg/day Growth and puberty complete 1.6 mcg/kg/day a. The dose should be adjusted based on clinical response and laboratory parameters [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.4)] . Newborns (0-3 months) at risk for cardiac failure: Consider a lower starting dose in newborns at risk for cardiac failure. Children at risk for hyperactivity: To minimize the risk of hyperactivity in children, start at one- fourth the recommended full replacement dose, and increase on a weekly basis by one-fourth the full recommended replacement dose until the full recommended replacement dose is reached. Pregnancy Pre-existing Hypothyroidism : Levothyroxine sodium tablets dose requirements may increase during pregnancy. For patients with serum TSH above the normal trimester-specific range, increase the dose of levothyroxine sodium tablets by 12.5 to 25 mcg/day and measure TSH every 4 weeks until a stable levothyroxine sodium tablets dose is reached and serum TSH is within the normal trimester-specific range. In patients with mild hypothyroidism (TSH < 10 IU per liter) start levothyroxine sodium tablets at 1.0 mcg per kg body weight per day. Evaluate serum TSH every 4 weeks and adjust levothyroxine sodium tablets dosage until a serum TSH is within the normal trimester specific range [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)] . TSH Suppression in Well-differentiated Thyroid Cancer Generally, TSH is suppressed to below 0.1 IU per liter, and this usually requires a levothyroxine sodium tablets dose of greater than 2 mcg per kg per day. Failure of the serum T4 to increase into the upper half of the normal range within 2 weeks of initiation of levothyroxine sodium tablets therapy and/or of the serum TSH to decrease below 20 IU per liter within 4 weeks may indicate the child is not receiving adequate therapy. Assess compliance, dose of medication administered, and method of administration prior to increasing the dose of levothyroxine sodium tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.4). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION General Principles: The goal of replacement therapy is to achieve and maintain a clinical and biochemical euthyroid state. The goal of suppressive therapy is to inhibit growth and/or function of abnormal thyroid tissue. The dose of Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets, USP that is adequate to achieve these goals depends on a variety of factors including the patient's age, body weight, cardiovascular status, concomitant medical conditions, including pregnancy, concomitant medications, and the specific nature of the condition being treated (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ). Hence, the following recommendations serve only as dosing guidelines. Dosing must be individualized and adjustments made based on periodic assessment of the patient's clinical response and laboratory parameters (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests ). Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets, USP should be taken in the morning on an empty stomach, at least one-half hour to one hour before any food is eaten. Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets, USP should be taken at least 4 hours apart from drugs that are known to interfere with its absorption (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Due to the long half-life of levothyroxine, the peak therapeutic effect at a given dose of levothyroxine sodium may not be attained for 4-6 weeks. Caution should be exercised when administering Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets, USP to patients with underlying cardiovascular disease, to the elderly, and to those with concomitant adrenal insufficiency (see PRECAUTIONS ). Specific Patient Populations: Hypothyroidism in Adults and in Children in Whom Growth and Puberty are Complete (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests ). Therapy may begin at full replacement doses in otherwise healthy individuals less than 50 years old and in those older than 50 years who have been recently treated for hyperthyroidism or who have been hypothyroid for only a short time (such as a few months). The average full replacement dose of levothyroxine sodium is approximately 1.7 mcg/kg/day (e.g., 100-125 mcg/day for a 70 kg adult). Older patients may require less than 1 mcg/kg/day. Levothyroxine sodium doses greater than 200 mcg/day are seldom required. An inadequate response to daily doses ≥ 300 mcg/day is rare and may indicate poor compliance, malabsorption, and/or drug interactions. For most patients older than 50 years or for patients under 50 years of age with underlying cardiac disease, an initial starting dose of 25-50 mcg/day of levothyroxine sodium is recommended, with gradual increments in dose at 6-8 week intervals, as needed. The recommended starting dose of levothyroxine sodium in elderly patients with cardiac disease is 12.5-25 mcg/day , with gradual dose increments at 4-6 week intervals. The levothyroxine sodium dose is generally adjusted in 12.5-25 mcg increments until the patient with primary hypothyroidism is clinically euthyroid and the serum TSH has normalized. In patients with severe hypothyroidism, the recommended initial levothyroxine sodium dose is 12.5-25 mcg/day with increases of 25 mcg/day every 2-4 weeks, accompanied by clinical and laboratory assessment, until the TSH level is normalized. In patients with secondary (pituitary) or tertiary (hypothalamic) hypothyroidism, the levothyroxine sodium dose should be titrated until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum free-T 4 level is restored to the upper half of the normal range. Pediatric Dosage - Congenital or Acquired Hypothyroidism (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests ) General Principles In general, levothyroxine therapy should be instituted at full replacement doses as soon as possible. Delays in diagnosis and institution of therapy may have deleterious effects on the child's intellectual and physical growth and development. Undertreatment and overtreatment should be avoided (see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use ). Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets, USP may be administered to infants and children who cannot swallow intact tablets by crushing the tablet and suspending the freshly crushed tablet in a small amount (5-10 mL or 1-2 teaspoons) of water. This suspension can be administered by spoon or dropper. Foods that decrease absorption of levothyroxine, such as soybean infant formula, should not be used for administering levothyroxine sodium tablets. (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug-Food Interactions ). Newborns The recommended starting dose of levothyroxine sodium in newborn infants is 10-15 mcg/kg/day . A lower starting dose (e.g., 25 mcg/day) should be considered in infants at risk for cardiac failure, and the dose should be increased in 4-6 weeks as needed based on clinical and laboratory response to treatment. In infants with very low (< 5 mcg/dL) or undetectable serum T 4 concentrations, the recommended initial starting dose is 50 mcg/day of levothyroxine sodium. Infants and Children Levothyroxine therapy is usually initiated at full replacement doses, with the recommended dose per body weight decreasing with age (see TABLE 3 ). However, in children with chronic or severe hypothyroidism, an initial dose of 25 mcg/day of levothyroxine sodium is recommended with increments of 25 mcg every 2-4 weeks until the desired effect is achieved. Hyperactivity in an older child can be minimized if the starting dose is one-fourth of the recommended full replacement dose, and the dose is then increased on a weekly basis by an amount equal to one-fourth the full-recommended replacement dose until the full recommended replacement dose is reached. Table 3: Levothyroxine Sodium Dosing Guidelines for Pediatric Hypothyroidism AGE Daily Dose Per Kg Body Weight a 0-3 months 10-15 mcg/kg/day 3-6 months 8-10 mcg/kg/day 6-12 months 6-8 mcg/kg/day 1-5 years 5-6 mcg/kg/day 6-12 years 4-5 mcg/kg/day >12 years but growth and puberty incomplete 2-3 mcg/kg/day Growth and puberty complete 1.7 mcg/kg/day a. The dose should be adjusted based on clinical response and laboratory parameters (see PRECAUTlONS, Laboratory Tests and Pediatric Use ). Pregnancy- Pregnancy may increase levothyroxine requirements (see PREGNANCY ). Subclinical Hypothyroidism- If this condition is treated, a lower levothyroxine sodium dose (e.g., 1 mcg/kg/day ) than that used for full replacement may be adequate to normalize the serum TSH level. Patients who are not treated should be monitored yearly for changes in clinical status and thyroid laboratory parameters. TSH Suppression in Well-differentiated Thyroid Cancer and Thyroid Nodules- The target level for TSH suppression in these conditions has not been established with controlled studies. In addition, the efficacy of TSH suppression for benign nodular disease is controversial. Therefore, the dose of Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets, USP used for TSH suppression should be individualized based on the specific disease and the patient being treated. In the treatment of well differentiated (papillary and follicular) thyroid cancer, levothyroxine is used as an adjunct to surgery and radioiodine therapy. Generally, TSH is suppressed to <0.1 mU/L, and this usually requires a levothyroxine sodium dose of greater than 2 mcg/kg/day . However, in patients with high-risk tumors, the target level for TSH suppression may be <0.01 mU/L. In the treatment of benign nodules and nontoxic multinodular goiter, TSH is generally suppressed to a higher target (e.g., 0.1-0.5 mU/L for nodules and 0.5-1.0 mU/L for multinodular goiter) than that used for the treatment of thyroid cancer. Levothyroxine sodium is contraindicated if the serum TSH is already suppressed due to the risk of precipitating overt thyrotoxicosis (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ). Myxedema Coma - Myxedema coma is a life-threatening emergency characterized by poor circulation and hypometabolism, and may result in unpredictable absorption of levothyroxine sodium from the gastrointestinal tract. Therefore, oral thyroid hormone drug products are not recommended to treat this condition. Thyroid hormone products formulated for intravenous administration should be administered. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer once daily, on an empty stomach, one-half to one hour before breakfast with a full glass of water. ( 2.1 ) Administer at least 4 hours before or after drugs that are known to interfere with absorption ( 2.1 ) Evaluate the need for dose adjustments when regularly administering within one hour of certain foods that may affect absorption. ( 2.1 ) Starting dose depends on a variety of factors, including age, body weight, cardiovascular status, concomitant medical conditions (including pregnancy), concomitant medications, co-administered food, and the specific nature of the condition being treated. ( 2.2 ) See full prescribing information for dosing in specific patient populations. ( 2.3 ) Adequacy of therapy determined with periodic monitoring of TSH and/or T4 as well as clinical status. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 General Administration Information Administer UNITHROID tablets orally as a single daily dose, on an empty stomach, one-half to one hour before breakfast. Administer UNITHROID at least 4 hours before or after drugs that are known to interfere with UNITHROID absorption [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . Evaluate the need for dose adjustments when regularly administering within one hour of certain foods that may affect UNITHROID absorption [see Drug Interactions ( 7.9 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Administer UNITHROID to infants and children who cannot swallow intact tablets by crushing the tablet, suspending the freshly crushed tablet in a small amount (5 mL to 10 mL or 1 teaspoon to 2 teaspoons) of water and immediately administering the suspension by spoon or dropper. Do not administer in foods that decrease absorption of UNITHROID, such as soybean-based infant formula [see Drug Interactions ( 7.9 )] . 2.2 General Principles of Dosing The dose of UNITHROID for hypothyroidism or pituitary TSH suppression depends on a variety of factors including: the patient's age, body weight, cardiovascular status, concomitant medical conditions (including pregnancy), concomitant medications, co-administered food and the specific nature of the condition being treated [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . The peak therapeutic effect of a given dose of UNITHROID may not be attained for 4 to 6 weeks. 2.3 Dosing in Specific Populations Primary Hypothyroidism in Adults and in Adolescents in Whom Growth and Puberty Are Complete Start UNITHROID at the full replacement dose in otherwise healthy, non-elderly individuals who have been hypothyroid for only a short time (such as a few months). The average full replacement dose of UNITHROID is approximately 1.6 mcg per kg per day (for example: 100 mcg per day to 125 mcg per day for a 70 kg adult). For elderly patients or patients with underlying cardiac disease, start with a dose of 12.5 mcg to 25 mcg per day. The full replacement dose of UNITHROID may be less than 1 mcg per kg per day in elderly patients. In patients with severe longstanding hypothyroidism, start with a dose of 12.5 mcg to 25 mcg per day. Secondary or Tertiary Hypothyroidism Start UNITHROID at the full replacement dose in otherwise healthy, non-elderly individuals. Serum TSH is not a reliable measure of UNITHROID dose adequacy in patients with secondary or tertiary hypothyroidism and should not be used to monitor therapy. Titrate UNITHROID dosing per above instructions until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum free-T4 level is restored to the upper half of the normal range. Pediatric Dosage - Congenital or Acquired Hypothyroidism The recommended daily dose of UNITHROID in pediatric patients with hypothyroidism is based on body weight and changes with age as described in Table 1. Start UNITHROID at the full daily dose in most pediatric patients. Start at a lower starting dose in newborns (0 to 3 months) at risk for cardiac failure and in children at risk for hyperactivity (see below). Monitor for clinical and laboratory response [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )] . Table 1: UNITHROID Dosing Guidelines for Pediatric Hypothyroidism Age Daily Dose Per Kg Body Weight a 0 to 3 months 10 mcg/kg daily to 15 mcg/kg daily 3 to 6 months 8 mcg/kg daily to 10 mcg/kg daily 6 to 12 months 6 mcg/kg daily to 8 mcg/kg daily 1 to 5 years 5 mcg/kg to 6 mcg/kg daily 6 to 12 years 4 mcg/kg to 5 mcg/kg daily Greater than 12 years but growth and puberty incomplete 2 mcg/kg to 3 mcg/kg daily Growth and puberty complete 1.6 mcg/kg daily a - The dose should be adjusted based on clinical response and laboratory parameters [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.10 ), and Use In Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] . Newborns (0 to 3 months) at Risk for Cardiac Failure: Consider a lower starting dose in newborns at risk for cardiac failure. Pediatric Patients at Risk for Hyperactivity: To minimize the risk of hyperactivity in pediatric patients, start at one-fourth the recommended full replacement dose, and increase on a weekly basis by one-fourth the full recommended replacement dose until the full recommended replacement dose is reached. Pregnancy Pre-existing Hypothyroidism: UNITHROID dose requirements may increase during pregnancy. For patients with serum TSH above the normal trimester-specific range, increase the dose of UNITHROID by 12.5 mcg daily to 25 mcg daily and measure TSH every 4 weeks until a stable UNITHROID dose is reached and serum TSH is within the normal trimester-specific range. Reduce UNITHROID dosage to pre-pregnancy levels immediately after delivery and measure serum TSH levels 4 to 8 weeks postpartum to ensure UNITHROID dose is appropriate. In patients with moderate to severe signs and symptoms of hypothyroidism, start UNITHROID at the full replacement dose (1.6 mcg per kg body weight per day). In patients with mild hypothyroidism (TSH less than 10 mIU per liter) start UNITHROID at 1 mcg per kg body weight per day. Evaluate serum TSH every 4 weeks and adjust UNITHROID dosage until a serum TSH is within the normal trimester specific range [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 )] . TSH Suppression in Well-Differentiated Thyroid Cancer The dose of UNITHROID should target TSH levels within the desired therapeutic range. This may require a UNITHROID dose of greater than 2 mcg per kg per day, depending on the target level for TSH suppression. Persistent clinical and laboratory evidence of hypothyroidism despite an apparent adequate replacement dose of UNITHROID may be evidence of inadequate absorption, poor compliance, drug interactions, or a combination of these factors. In patients on a stable and appropriate replacement dose, evaluate clinical and biochemical response every 6 to 12 months and whenever there is a change in the patient’s clinical status. Pediatrics In patients with congenital hypothyroidism, assess the adequacy of replacement therapy by measuring both serum TSH and total or free-T. Failure of the serum T4 to increase into the upper half of the normal range within 2 weeks of initiation of UNITHROID therapy and/or of the serum TSH to decrease below 20 mIU per liter within 4 weeks may indicate the child is not receiving adequate therapy. Assess compliance, dose of medication administered, and method of administration prior to increasing the dose of UNITHROID [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Consider the age, general physical condition, cardiac risk factors, and clinical severity of myxedema and duration of myxedema symptoms when determining dosages of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection. ( 2.1 ) • Start with lower doses in elderly patients and in patients with underlying cardiovascular disease. ( 2.1 ) • The recommended loading dose is 300 mcg to 500 mcg administered intravenously. ( 2.1 ) • The recommended maintenance dose is 50 mcg to 100 mcg administered intravenously daily until the patient can tolerate oral therapy. ( 2.1 ) • Administer Levothyroxine Sodium Injection intravenously at a rate not to exceed 100 mcg per minute. ( 2.2 ) • Do not add Levothyroxine Sodium Injection to intravenous fluids. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Dosage • Consider the age, general physical condition, cardiac risk factors, and clinical severity of myxedema and duration of myxedema symptoms when determining the starting and maintenance dosages of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection. • Start with lower doses in elderly patients and in patients with underlying cardiovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 )]. • The recommended loading dose of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection is 300 mcg to 500 mcg administered intravenously. • The recommended maintenance dose of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection is 50 mcg to 100 mcg administered intravenously daily until the patient can tolerate oral therapy. 2.2 Administration Instructions • Administer Levothyroxine Sodium Injection as an intravenous injection at a rate not to exceed 100 mcg per minute. • Do not add Levothyroxine Sodium Injection to intravenous fluids. • Inspect Levothyroxine Sodium Injection visually prior to injection. It should appear clear and colorless, solution free of visible particulates. Do not use if particulate matter or coloration is seen. • Discard any unused portion. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer once daily, preferably on an empty stomach, one-half to one hour before breakfast. (2.1) Administer orally using syringe provided by the pharmacy (2.1) Evaluate the need for dose adjustments when regularly administering within one hour of certain foods that may affect THYQUIDITY absorption. (2.1) Starting dose depends on a variety of factors, including age, body weight, cardiovascular status, and concomitant medical conditions (including pregnancy), concomitant medications, co-administered food, and the specific nature of the condition being treated. (2.4) 2.1 General Administration Information Administer THYQUIDITY as a single daily oral dose, on an empty stomach, one-half to one hour before breakfast. Administer THYQUIDITY at least 4 hours before or after drugs known to interfere with THYQUIDITY absorption [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Evaluate the need for dose adjustments when regularly administering within one hour of certain foods that may affect THYQUIDITY absorption [see Drug Interactions (7.9) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Administer THYQUIDITY directly to the mouth using a calibrated oral syringe provided by the pharmacy. A household teaspoon or tablespoon is not an adequate measuring device. 2.2 General Principles of Dosing The dose of THYQUIDITY for hypothyroidism or pituitary TSH suppression depends on a variety of factors including: the patient's age, body weight, cardiovascular status, concomitant medical conditions (including pregnancy), concomitant medications, co-administered food and the specific nature of the condition being treated [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) , Warnings and Precautions (5) , and Drug Interactions (7) ] . Dosing must be individualized to account for these factors and dose adjustments made based on periodic assessment of the patient's clinical response and laboratory parameters [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . The peak therapeutic effect of a given dose of THYQUIDITY may not be attained for 4 to 6 weeks. 2.3 Dosing in Specific Patient Populations Primary Hypothyroidism in Adults and in Adolescents in Whom Growth and Puberty are Complete Start THYQUIDITY at the full replacement dose in otherwise healthy, non-elderly individuals who have been hypothyroid for only a short time (such as a few months). The average full replacement dose of THYQUIDITY is approximately 1.6 mcg per kg per day (for example: 100 to 125 mcg per day for a 70 kg adult). Increase the dose every 6 to 8 weeks, as needed, until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum TSH returns to normal. The full replacement dose of THYQUIDITY may be less than 1 mcg per kg per day in elderly patients. Secondary or Tertiary Hypothyroidism Start THYQUIDITY at the full replacement dose in otherwise healthy, non-elderly individuals. Serum TSH is not a reliable measure of THYQUIDITY dose adequacy in patients with secondary or tertiary hypothyroidism and should not be used to monitor therapy. Titrate THYQUIDITY dosing per above instructions until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum free-T4 level is restored to the upper half of the normal range. Pediatric Dosage - Congenital or Acquired Hypothyroidism The recommended daily dose of THYQUIDITY in pediatric patients with hypothyroidism is based on body weight and changes with age as described in Table 1. Start THYQUIDITY at the full daily dose in most pediatric patients. Monitor for clinical and laboratory response [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ]. THYQUIDITY Dosing Guidelines for Pediatric Hypothyroidism AGE Daily Dose Per Kg Body Weight a 0-3 months 10-15 mcg/kg/day 3-6 months 8-10 mcg/kg/day 6-12 months 6-8 mcg/kg/day 1-5 years 5-6 mcg/kg/day 6-12 years 4-5 mcg/kg/day Greater than 12 years but growth and puberty incomplete 2-3 mcg/kg/day Growth and puberty complete 1.6 mcg/kg/day a The dose should be adjusted based on clinical response and laboratory parameters [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . Newborns (0-3 months) at risk for cardiac failure : Consider a lower starting dose in newborns at risk for cardiac failure. Pregnancy Pre-existing Hypothyroidism: THYQUIDITY dose requirements may increase during pregnancy. Measure serum TSH and free-T4 as soon as pregnancy is confirmed and, at a minimum, during each trimester of pregnancy. For patients with serum TSH above the normal trimester- specific range, increase the dose of THYQUIDITY by 12.5 to 25 mcg/day and measure TSH every 4 weeks until a stable THYQUIDITY dose is reached and serum TSH is within the normal trimester-specific range. Reduce THYQUIDITY dosage to pre-pregnancy levels immediately after delivery and measure serum TSH levels 4 to 8 weeks postpartum to ensure THYQUIDITY dose is appropriate. New Onset Hypothyroidism : Normalize thyroid function as rapidly as possible. Evaluate serum TSH every 4 weeks and adjust THYQUIDITY dosage until a serum TSH is within the normal trimester specific range [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ] . TSH Suppression in Well-differentiated Thyroid Cancer Generally, TSH is suppressed to below 0.1 mIU per liter, and this usually requires a THYQUIDITY dose of greater than 2 mcg per kg per day. Persistent clinical and laboratory evidence of hypothyroidism, despite an apparent adequate replacement dose of THYQUIDITY, may be evidence of inadequate absorption, poor compliance, drug interactions, or a combination of these factors. Although the general aim of therapy is to normalize the serum TSH level, TSH may not normalize in some patients due to in utero hypothyroidism causing a resetting of pituitary-thyroid feedback. Failure of the serum T4 to increase into the upper half of the normal range within 2 weeks of initiation of THYQUIDITY therapy and/or of the serum TSH to decrease below 20 mIU per liter within 4 weeks may indicate the child is not receiving adequate therapy. Assess compliance, dose of medication administered, and method of administration prior to increasing the dose of THYQUIDITY [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer once daily, preferably on an empty stomach, one-half to one hour before breakfast with a full glass of water. (2.1) • Starting dose depends on a variety of factors, including age, body weight, cardiovascular status, and concomitant medications. Evaluate the need for dosage adjustments when regularly administering within one hour of certain foods that may affect levothyroxine sodium tablets absorption [see Dosage and Administration (2.2 and 2.3) , Drug Interactions (7.9) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. New onset hypothyroidism (TSH ≥10 IU per liter) 1.6 mcg/kg/day Monitor serum TSH every 4 weeks and adjust levothyroxine sodium dosage until serum TSH is within normal trimester-specific range. New onset hypothyroidism (TSH < 10 IU per liter) 1.0 mcg/kg/day TSH Suppression in Well-differentiated Thyroid Cancer in Adult and Pediatric Patients The levothyroxine sodium dosage is based on the target level of TSH suppression for the stage and clinical status of thyroid cancer. Failure of the serum T4 to increase into the upper half of the normal range within 2 weeks of initiation of levothyroxine sodium therapy and/or of the serum TSH to decrease below 20 IU per litre within 4 weeks may indicate the patient is not receiving adequate therapy. ( 2.1 ) Administer at least 4 hours before or after drugs that are known to interfere with absorption. ( 2.1 ) Evaluate the need for dose adjustments when regularly administering within one hour of certain foods that may affect absorption. ( 2.1 ) Advise patients to stop biotin and biotin-containing supplements at least 2 days before assessing TSH and/or T4 levels. ( 2.2 ) Starting dose depends on a variety of factors, including age, body weight, cardiovascular status, and concomitant medications. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Administer levothyroxine sodium tablets as a single daily dose, on an empty stomach, one-half to one hour before breakfast. Evaluate the need for dosage adjustments when regularly administering within one hour of certain foods that may affect levothyroxine sodium tablets absorption [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 and 2.3 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.9 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.2 Important Considerations for Dosing The dosage of levothyroxine sodium tablets for hypothyroidism or pituitary TSH suppression depends on a variety of factors including: the patient's age, body weight, cardiovascular status, concomitant medical conditions (including pregnancy), concomitant medications, co-administered food and the specific nature of the condition being treated [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ), and Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . Dosing must be individualized to account for these factors and dosage adjustments made based on periodic assessment of the patient's clinical response and laboratory parameters [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )] . For adult patients with primary hypothyroidism, titrate until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum TSH returns to normal [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] . For secondary or tertiary hypothyroidism, serum TSH is not a reliable measure of levothyroxine sodium tablets dosage adequacy and should not be used to monitor therapy. Use the serum free-T4 level to titrate levothyroxine sodium tablets dosing until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum free-T4 level is restored to the upper half of the normal range [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )]. If so, advise them to stop biotin supplementation at least 2 days before assessing TSH and/or T4 levels [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.10 )]. Dosage titration is based on serum TSH or free-T4 [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )]. Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets Dosing Guidelines for Hypothyroidism in Adults* * Dosages greater than 200 mcg/day are seldom required. An inadequate response to daily dosages greater than 300 mcg/day is rare and may indicate poor compliance, malabsorption, drug interactions, or a combination of these factors [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. Geriatric patients Lower starting dose (less than 1.6 mcg/kg/day) Primary, Secondary and Tertiary Hypothyroidism in Pediatric Patients The recommended starting daily dosage of levothyroxine sodium tablets in pediatric patients with primary, secondary, or tertiary hypothyroidism is based on body weight and changes with age as described in Table 2. Titrate the dosage (every 2 weeks) as needed based on serum TSH or free-T4 until the patient is euthyroid [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )] . Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets Dosing Guidelines for Hypothyroidism in Pediatric Patients a Adjust dosage based on clinical response and laboratory parameters [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )]. Age Starting Daily Dosage Per Kg Body Weight a 0 to 3 months 10 to 15 mcg/kg/day 3 to 6 months 8 to 10 mcg/kg/day 6 to 12 months 6 to 8 mcg/kg/day 1 to 5 years 5 to 6 mcg/kg/day 6 to 12 years 4 to 5 mcg/kg/day Greater than 12 years but growth and puberty incomplete 2 to 3 mcg/kg/day Growth and puberty complete 1.6 mcg/kg/day Pediatric Patients from Birth to 3 Months of Age at Risk for Cardiac Failure Start at a lower starting dosage and increase the dosage every 4 to 6 weeks as needed based on clinical and laboratory response. Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets Dosing Guidelines for Hypothyroidism in Pregnant Patients Patient Population Starting Dosage Dose Adjustment and Titration Pre-existing primary hypothyroidism with serum TSH above normal trimester- specific range Pre-pregnancy dosage may increase during pregnancy Increase levothyroxine sodium tablet dosage by 12.5 to 25 mcg per day. Reduce levothyroxine sodium tablet dosage to pre-pregnancy levels immediately after delivery. New onset hypothyroidism (TSH ≥ 10 mIU per liter) 1.6 mcg/kg/day Monitor serum TSH every 4 weeks and adjust levothyroxine sodium tablet dosage until serum TSH is within normal trimester-specific range. New onset hypothyroidism (TSH < 10 mIU per liter) 1.0 mcg/kg/day TSH Suppression in Well-differentiated Thyroid Cancer in Adult and Pediatric Patients The levothyroxine sodium tablets dosage is based on the target level of TSH suppression for the stage and clinical status of thyroid cancer. Stop biotin and biotin-containing supplements for at least 2 days before assessing TSH and/or T4 levels [see Drug Interactions ( 7.10 )]. In patients on a stable and appropriate replacement dosage, evaluate clinical and biochemical response every 6 to 12 months and whenever there is a change in the patient's clinical status. Failure of the serum T4 to increase into the upper half of the normal range within 2 weeks of initiation of levothyroxine sodium tablets therapy and/or of the serum TSH to decrease below 20 mIU per liter within 4 weeks may indicate the patient is not receiving adequate therapy. Assess compliance, dose of medication administered, and method of administration prior to increasing the dose of levothyroxine sodium tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] .
Warnings: WARNINGS WARNING: Thyroid hormones, including Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets, USP, either alone or with other therapeutic agents, should not be used for the treatment of obesity for weight loss. In euthyroid patients, doses within the range of daily hormonal requirements are ineffective for weight reduction. Larger doses may produce serious or even life threatening manifestations of toxicity, particularly when given in association with sympathomimetic amines such as those used for their anorectic effects. Levothyroxine sodium should not be used in the treatment of male or female infertility unless this condition is associated with hypothyroidism. In patients with nontoxic diffuse goiter or nodular thyroid disease, particularly the elderly or those with underlying cardiovascular disease, levothyroxine sodium therapy is contraindicated if the serum TSH level is already suppressed due to the risk of precipitating overt thyrotoxicosis (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). If the serum TSH level is not suppressed, Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets, USP should be used with caution in conjunction with careful monitoring of thyroid function for evidence of hyperthyroidism and clinical monitoring for potential associated adverse cardiovascular signs and symptoms of hyperthyroidism.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Levothyroxine sodium tablets are contraindicated in patients with uncorrected adrenal insufficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Uncorrected adrenal insufficiency. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets are contraindicated in patients with uncorrected adrenal insufficiency [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . • Uncorrected adrenal insufficiency. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Levothyroxine sodium tablets is contraindicated in patients with uncorrected adrenal insufficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] . CONTRAINDICATIONS Levothyroxine is contraindicated in patients with untreated subclinical (suppressed serum TSH level with normal T 3 and T 4 levels) or overt thyrotoxicosis of any etiology and in patients with acute myocardial infarction. Levothyroxine is contraindicated in patients with uncorrected adrenal insufficiency since thyroid hormones may precipitate an acute adrenal crisis by increasing the metabolic clearance of glucocorticoids (see PRECAUTIONS ). Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets, USP is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to any of the inactive ingredients in Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets, USP. (See DESCRIPTION, Inactive Ingredients ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS UNITHROID is contraindicated in patients with uncorrected adrenal insufficiency [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Uncorrected adrenal insufficiency ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Uncorrected adrenal insufficiency [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Uncorrected adrenal insufficiency. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS THYQUIDITY is contraindicated in patients with: Uncorrected adrenal insufficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Levothyroxine sodium tablets are contraindicated in patients with uncorrected adrenal insufficiency [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] .
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for drugs that affect thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics and metabolism (e.g., absorption, synthesis, secretion, catabolism, protein binding, and target tissue response) and may alter the therapeutic response to levothyroxine sodium. (7) 7.1 Drugs Known to Affect Thyroid Hormone Pharmacokinetics Many drugs can exert effects on thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics and metabolism (e.g., absorption, synthesis, secretion, catabolism, protein binding, and target tissue response) and may alter the therapeutic response to levothyroxine sodium (Tables 5 to 8). Table 5. Drugs That May Decrease T4 Absorption (Hypothyroidism) Potential impact: Concurrent use may reduce the efficacy of levothyroxine sodium by binding and delaying or preventing absorption, potentially resulting in hypothyroidism. Drug or Drug Class Effect Phosphate Binders (e.g., calcium carbonate, ferrous sulfate, sevelamer, lanthanum) Phosphate binders may bind to levothyroxine. Administer levothyroxine sodium tablets at least 4 hours apart from these agents. Orlistat Monitor patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and levothyroxine sodium for changes in thyroid function. Bile Acid Sequestrants (e.g., colesevelam, cholestyramine, colestipol) Ion Exchange Resins (e.g., Kayexalate) Bile acid sequestrants and ion exchange resins are known to decrease levothyroxine absorption. Administer levothyroxine sodium tablets at least 4 hours prior to these drugs or monitor TSH levels. Proton Pump Inhibitors Sucralfate Antacids (e.g., aluminum & magnesium hydroxides, simethicone) Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine. Sucralfate, antacids and proton pump inhibitors may cause hypochlorhydria, affect intragastric pH, and reduce levothyroxine absorption. Monitor patients appropriately. Table 6. Drugs That May Alter T4 and Triiodothyronine (T3) Serum Transport Without Affecting Free Thyroxine (FT4) Concentration (Euthyroidism) Drug or Drug Class Effect Clofibrate Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives Estrogens (oral) Heroin / Methadone 5-Fluorouracil Mitotane Tamoxifen These drugs may increase serum thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG) concentration. Androgens / Anabolic Steroids Asparaginase Glucocorticoids Slow-Release Nicotinic Acid These drugs may decrease serum TBG concentration. Potential impact (below): Administration of these agents with levothyroxine sodium results in an initial transient increase in FT4. Continued administration results in a decrease in serum T4 and normal FT4 and TSH concentrations. Salicylates (> 2 g/day) Salicylates inhibit binding of T4 and T3 to TBG and transthyretin. An initial increase in serum FT4 is followed by return of FT4 to normal levels with sustained therapeutic serum salicylate concentrations, although total T4 levels may decrease by as much as 30%. Other drugs: Carbamazepine Furosemide (> 80 mg IV) Heparin Hydantoins Non-Steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs - Fenamates These drugs may cause protein-binding site displacement. Furosemide has been shown to inhibit the protein binding of T4 to TBG and albumin, causing an increase free T4 fraction in serum. Furosemide competes for T4-binding sites on TBG, prealbumin, and albumin, so that a single high dose can acutely lower the total T4 level. Phenytoin and carbamazepine reduce serum protein binding of levothyroxine, and total and free T4 may be reduced by 20% to 40%, but most patients have normal serum TSH levels and are clinically euthyroid. Closely monitor thyroid hormone parameters. Table 7. Drugs That May Alter Hepatic Metabolism of T4 (Hypothyroidism) Potential impact: Stimulation of hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing enzyme activity may cause increased hepatic degradation of levothyroxine, resulting in increased levothyroxine sodium requirements. Drug or Drug Class Effect Phenobarbital Rifampin Phenobarbital has been shown to reduce the response to thyroxine. Phenobarbital increases L-thyroxine metabolism by inducing uridine 5’-diphospho-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) and leads to a lower T4 serum levels. Changes in thyroid status may occur if barbiturates are added or withdrawn from patients being treated for hypothyroidism. Rifampin has been shown to accelerate the metabolism of levothyroxine. Table 8. Drugs That May Decrease Conversion of T4 to T3 Potential impact: Administration of these enzyme inhibitors decreases the peripheral conversion of T4 to T3, leading to decreased T3 levels. However, serum T4 levels are usually normal but may occasionally be slightly increased. Drug or Drug Class Effect Beta-adrenergic antagonists (e.g., Propranolol > 160 mg/day) In patients treated with large doses of propranolol (> 160 mg/day), T3 and T4 levels change, TSH levels remain normal, and patients are clinically euthyroid. Actions of particular beta-adrenergic antagonists may be impaired when a hypothyroid patient is converted to the euthyroid state. Glucocorticoids (e.g., Dexamethasone ≥ 4 mg/day) Short-term administration of large doses of glucocorticoids may decrease serum T3 concentrations by 30% with minimal change in serum T4 levels. However, long-term glucocorticoid therapy may result in slightly decreased T3 and T4 levels due to decreased TBG production (See above). Other drugs: Amiodarone Amiodarone inhibits peripheral conversion of levothyroxine (T4) to triiodothyronine (T3) and may cause isolated biochemical changes (increase in serum free-T4, and decreased or normal free-T3) in clinically euthyroid patients. 7.2 Antidiabetic Therapy Addition of levothyroxine sodium therapy in patients with diabetes mellitus may worsen glycemic control and result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements. Carefully monitor glycemic control, especially when thyroid therapy is started, changed, or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . 7.3 Oral Anticoagulants Levothyroxine sodium increases the response to oral anticoagulant therapy. Therefore, a decrease in the dose of anticoagulant may be warranted with correction of the hypothyroid state or when the levothyroxine sodium dose is increased. Closely monitor coagulation tests to permit appropriate and timely dosage adjustments. 7.4 Digitalis Glycosides Levothyroxine sodium may reduce the therapeutic effects of digitalis glycosides. Serum digitalis glycoside levels may decrease when a hypothyroid patient becomes euthyroid, necessitating an increase in the dose of digitalis glycosides. 7.5 Antidepressant Therapy Concurrent use of tricyclic (e.g., amitriptyline) or tetracyclic (e.g., maprotiline) antidepressants and levothyroxine sodium may increase the therapeutic and toxic effects of both drugs, possibly due to increased receptor sensitivity to catecholamines. Toxic effects may include increased risk of cardiac arrhythmias and central nervous system stimulation. Levothyroxine sodium may accelerate the onset of action of tricyclics. Administration of sertraline in patients stabilized on levothyroxine sodium may result in increased levothyroxine sodium requirements. 7.6 Ketamine Concurrent use of ketamine and levothyroxine sodium may produce marked hypertension and tachycardia. Closely monitor blood pressure and heart rate in these patients. 7.7 Sympathomimetics Concurrent use of sympathomimetics and levothyroxine sodium may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease. 7.8 Tyrosine-Kinase Inhibitors Concurrent use of tyrosine-kinase inhibitors such as imatinib may cause hypothyroidism. Closely monitor TSH levels in such patients. 7.9 Drug-Food Interactions Consumption of certain foods may affect levothyroxine sodium absorption thereby necessitating adjustments in dosing [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . Soybean flour, cottonseed meal, walnuts, and dietary fiber may bind and decrease the absorption of levothyroxine sodium from the gastrointestinal tract. Grapefruit juice may delay the absorption of levothyroxine and reduce its bioavailability. 7.10 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions Thyroxine-binding Globulin (TBG) Consider changes in TBG concentration when interpreting T4 and T3 values. Measure and evaluate unbound (free) hormone and/or determine the free-T4 index (FT4I) in this circumstance. Pregnancy, infectious hepatitis, estrogens, estrogen-containing oral contraceptives, and acute intermittent porphyria increase TBG concentration. Nephrosis, severe hypoproteinemia, severe liver disease, acromegaly, androgens, and corticosteroids decrease TBG concentration. Familial hyper- or hypo-thyroxine binding globulinemias have been described, with the incidence of TBG deficiency approximating 1 in 9000. Biotin Biotin supplementation is known to interfere with thyroid hormone immunoassays that are based on a biotin and streptavidin interaction, which may result in erroneous thyroid hormone test results. Stop biotin and biotin-containing supplements for at least 2 days prior to thyroid testing. 7.1 Drugs Known to Affect Thyroid Hormone Pharmacokinetics Many drugs can exert effects on thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics and metabolism (e.g., absorption, synthesis, secretion, catabolism, protein binding, and target tissue response) and may alter the therapeutic response to levothyroxine sodium (Tables 5 to 8). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for drugs that affect thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics and metabolism (e.g., absorption, synthesis, secretion, catabolism, protein binding, and target tissue response) and may alter the therapeutic response to Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets. ( 7 ) 7.1 Drugs Known to Affect Thyroid Hormone Pharmacokinetics Many drugs can exert effects on thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics and metabolism (e.g., absorption, synthesis, secretion, catabolism, protein binding, and target tissue response) and may alter the therapeutic response to Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets (see Tables 2-5 below). Table 2. Drugs That May Decrease T4 Absorption (Hypothyroidism) Potential impact: Concurrent use may reduce the efficacy of Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets by binding and delaying or preventing absorption, potentially resulting in hypothyroidism. Drug or Drug Class Effect Calcium Carbonate Ferrous Sulfate Calcium carbonate may form an insoluble chelate with levothyroxine, and ferrous sulfate likely forms a ferric-thyroxine complex. Orlistat Monitor patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets for changes in thyroid function. Bile Acid Sequestrants - Colesevelam - Cholestyramine - Colestipol Ion Exchange Resins - Kayexalate - Sevelamer Bile acid sequestrants and ion exchange resins are known to decrease levothyroxine absorption. Other drugs: Proton Pump Inhibitors Sucralfate Antacids - Aluminum & Magnesium Hydroxides - Simethicone Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine. Table 3. Potential impact (below): Administration of these agents with Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets results in an initial transient increase in FT4. Salicylates (greater than 2 g/day) Salicylates inhibit binding of T4 and T3 to TBG and transthyretin. Other drugs: Carbamazepine Furosemide (greater than 80 mg IV) Heparin Hydantoins Non-Steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs - Fenamates These drugs may cause protein-binding site displacement. Table 4. Drugs That May Alter Hepatic Metabolism of T4 (Hypothyroidism) Potential impact: Stimulation of hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing enzyme activity may cause increased hepatic degradation of levothyroxine, resulting in increased Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets requirements. Phenobarbital increases L-thyroxine metabolism by inducing uridine 5'-diphospho-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) and leads to a lower T4 serum levels. Drug or Drug Class Effect Beta-adrenergic antagonists (e.g., Propranolol greater than 160 mg/day) In patients treated with large doses of propranolol (greater than 160 mg/day), T3 and T4 levels change, TSH levels remain normal, and patients are clinically euthyroid. Glucocorticoids (e.g., Dexamethasone greater than or equal to 4 mg/day) Short-term administration of large doses of glucocorticoids may decrease serum T3 concentrations by 30% with minimal change in serum T4 levels. 7.2 Antidiabetic Therapy Addition of Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets therapy in patients with diabetes mellitus may worsen glycemic control and result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements. Carefully monitor glycemic control, especially when thyroid therapy is started, changed, or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )]. 7.3 Oral Anticoagulants Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets increase the response to oral anticoagulant therapy. Therefore, a decrease in the dose of anticoagulant may be warranted with correction of the hypothyroid state or when the Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets dose is increased. 7.4 Digitalis Glycosides Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets may reduce the therapeutic effects of digitalis glycosides. 7.5 Antidepressant Therapy Concurrent use of tricyclic (e.g., amitriptyline) or tetracyclic (e.g., maprotiline) antidepressants and Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets may increase the therapeutic and toxic effects of both drugs, possibly due to increased receptor sensitivity to catecholamines. Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets may accelerate the onset of action of tricyclics. Administration of sertraline in patients stabilized on Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets may result in increased Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets requirements. 7.6 Ketamine Concurrent use of ketamine and Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets may produce marked hypertension and tachycardia. 7.7 Sympathomimetics Concurrent use of sympathomimetics and Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. 7.9 Drug-Food Interactions Consumption of certain foods may affect Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets absorption thereby necessitating adjustments in dosing [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )] . Soybean flour, cottonseed meal, walnuts, and dietary fiber may bind and decrease the absorption of Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets from the gastrointestinal tract. 7.10 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions Consider changes in TBG concentration when interpreting T4 and T3 values. (7) 7.1 Drugs Known to Affect Thyroid Hormone Pharmacokinetics Many drugs can exert effects on thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics and metabolism (e.g., absorption, synthesis, secretion, catabolism, protein binding, and target tissue response) and may alter the therapeutic response to levothyroxine sodium tablets (see Tables 2-5 below). Bile Acid Sequestrants -Colesevelam -Cholestyramine -Colestipol Ion Exchange Resins -Kayexalate -Sevelamer Bile acid sequestrants and ion exchange resins are known to decrease levothyroxine absorption. Other drugs: Carbamazepine Furosemide (> 80 mg IV) Heparin Hydantoins Non-Steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs -Fenamates These drugs may cause protein-binding site displacement. Carefully monitor glycemic control, especially when thyroid therapy is started, changed, or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. 7.3 Oral Anticoagulants Levothyroxine sodium tablets increases the response to oral anticoagulant therapy. 7.9 Drug-Food Interactions Consumption of certain foods may affect levothyroxine sodium tablets absorption thereby necessitating adjustments in dosing [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)]. Drug Interactions Many drugs affect thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics and metabolism (e.g., absorption, synthesis, secretion, catabolism, protein binding, and target tissue response) and may alter the therapeutic response to Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets, USP. In addition, thyroid hormones and thyroid status have varied effects on the pharmacokinetics and action of other drugs. A listing of drug-thyroidal axis interactions is contained in Table 2. The list of drug-thyroidal axis interactions in Table 2 may not be comprehensive due to the introduction of new drugs that interact with the thyroidal axis or the discovery of previously unknown interactions. The prescriber should be aware of this fact and should consult appropriate reference sources (e.g., package inserts of newly approved drugs, medical literature) for additional information if a drug-drug interaction with levothyroxine is suspected. Table 2: Drug-Thyroidal Axis Interactions Drug or Drug Class Effect Drugs that may reduce TSH secretion - the reduction is not sustained; therefore, hypothyroidism does not occur Dopamine/Dopamine Agonists Glucocorticoids Octreotide Use of these agents may result in a transient reduction in TSH secretion when administered at the following doses: dopamine ( ≥ 1 mcg/kg/min); Glucocorticoids (hydrocortisone ≥ 100 mg/day or equivalent); Octreotide ( > 100 mcg/day). Drugs that alter thyroid hormone secretion Drugs that may decrease thyroid hormone secretion, which may result in hypothyroidism Aminoglutethimide Amiodarone Iodide (including iodine-containing Radiographic contrast agents) Lithium Methimazole Propylthioracil (PTU) Sulfonamides Tolbutamide Long-term lithium therapy can result in goiter in up to 50% of patients, and either subclinical or overt hypothyroidism, each in up to 20% of patients. The fetus, neonate, elderly and euthyroid patients with underlying thyroid disease (e.g., Hashimoto's thyroiditis or with Grave's disease previously treated with radioiodine or surgery) are among those individuals who are particularly susceptible to iodine-induced hypothyroidism. Oral cholecystographic agents and amiodarone are slowly excreted, producing more prolonged hypothyroidism than parenterally administered iodinated contrast agents. Long-term amino-glu-tethimide therapy may minimally decrease T 4 and T 3 levels and increase TSH, although all values remain within normal limits in most patients. Drugs that may increase thyroid hormone secretion, which may result in hyperthyroidism Amiodarone Iodide (including iodine-containing Radiographic contrast agents) Iodide and drugs that contain pharmacologic amounts of iodide may cause hyperthyroidism in euthyroid patients with Grave's disease previously treated with antithyroid drugs or in euthyroid patients with thyroid autonomy (e.g., multinodular goiter or hyper functioning thyroid adenoma). Hyperthyroidism may develop over several weeks and may persist for several months after therapy discontinuation. Amiodarone may induce hyperthyroidism by causing thyroiditis. Drugs that may decrease T 4 absorption, which may result in hypothyroidism Antacids - Aluminum & Magnesium Hydroxides - Simethicone Bile Acid Sequestrants - Cholestyramine - Colestipol Calcium Carbonate Cation Exchange Resins - Kayexalate Ferrous Sulfate Orlistat Sucralfate Concurrent use may reduce the efficacy of levothyroxine by binding and delaying or preventing absorption, potentially resulting in hypothyroidism. Calcium carbonate may form an insoluble chelate with levothyroxine, and ferrous sulfate likely forms a ferric-thyroxine complex. Administer levothyroxine at least 4 hours apart from these agents. Patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and levothyroxine should be monitored for changes in thyroid function. Drugs that may alter T 4 and T 3 serum transport - but FT 4 concentration remains normal; and, therefore, the patient remains euthyroid Drugs that may increase serum TBG concentration Drugs that may decrease serum TBG concentration Clofibrate Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives Estrogens (oral) Heroin / Methadone 5-Fluorouracil Mitotane Tamoxifen Androgens / Anabolic Steroids Asparaginase Glucocorticoids Slow-Release Nicotinic Acid Drugs that may cause protein-binding site displacement Furosemide ( > 80 mg IV) Heparin Hydantoins Non Steroidal Anti-lnflammatory Drugs - Fenamates - Phenylbutazone Salicylates ( > 2 g/day) Administration of these agents with levothyroxine results in an initial transient increase in FT 4 . Continued administration results in a decrease in serum T 4 and normal FT 4 and TSH concentrations and, therefore, patients are clinically euthyroid. Salicylates inhibit binding of T 4 and T 3 to TBG and transthyretin. An initial increase in serum FT 4 , is followed by return of FT 4 to normal levels with sustained therapeutic serum salicylate concentrations, although total-T 4 levels may decrease by as much as 30%. Drugs that may alter T 4 and T 3 metabolism Drugs that may increase hepatic metabolism, which may result in hypothyroidism Carbamazepine Hydantoins Phenobarbital Rifampin Stimulation of hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing enzyme activity may cause increased hepatic degradation of levothyroxine, resulting in increased Ievothyroxine requirements. Phenytoin and carbamazepine reduce serum protein binding of levothyroxine, and total- and free-T 4 may be reduced by 20% to 40%, but most patients have normal serum TSH levels and are clinically euthyroid. Drugs that may decrease T 4 5' - deiodinase activity Amiodarone Beta-adrenergic antagonists - (e.g., Propranolol > 160 mg/day) Glucocorticoids -(e.g., Dexamethasone ≥ 4 mg/day) Propylthiouracil (PTU) Administration of these enzyme inhibitors decrease the peripheral conversion of T 4 to T 3 , leading to decreased T 3 levels. However, serum T 4 levels are usually normal but may occasionally be slightly increased. In patients treated with large doses of propranolol ( > 160 mg/day), T 3 and T 4 levels change slightly, TSH levels remain normal, and patients are clinically euthyroid. It should be noted that actions of particular beta-adrenergic antagonists may be impaired when the hypothyroid patient is converted to the euthyroid state. Short-term administration of large doses of glucocorticoids may decrease serum T 3 concentrations by 30% with minimal change in serum T 4 levels. However, long-term glucocorticoid therapy may result in slightly decreased T 3 and T 4 levels due to decreased TBG production (see above). Miscellaneous Anticoagulants (oral) - Coumarin Derivatives - Indandione Derivatives Thyroid hormones appear to increase the catabolism of vitamin K-dependent clotting factors, thereby increasing the anticoagulant activity of oral anticoagulants. Concomitant use of these agents impairs the compensatory increases in clotting factor synthesis. Prothrombin time should be carefully monitored in patients taking levothyroxine and oral anticoagulants and the dose of anticoagulant therapy adjusted accordingly. Antidepressants - Tricyclics (e.g., Amitriptyline) - Tetracyclics (e.g., Maprotiline) - Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs; e.g., Sertraline) Concurrent use of tri/tetracyclic antidepressants and levothyroxine may increase the therapeutic and toxic effects of both drugs, possibly due to increased receptor sensitivity to catecholamines.Toxic effects may include increased risk of cardiac arrhythmias and CNS stimulation; onset of action of tricyclics may be accelerated. Administration of sertraline in patients stabilized on levothyroxine may result in increased levothyroxine requirements. Antidiabetic Agents - Biguanides - Meglitinides - Sulfonylureas - Thiazolidediones - Insulin Addition of levothyroxine to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements. Careful monitoring of diabetic control is recommended, especially when thyroid therapy is started, changed, or discontinued. Cardiac Glycosides Serum digitalis glycoside levels may be reduced in hyperthyroidism or when the hypothyroid patient is converted to the euthyroid state. Therapeutic effect of digitalis glycosides may be reduced. Cytokines - Interferon-α - Interleukin-2 Therapy with interferon-α has been associated with the development of antithyroid microsomal antibodies in 20% of patients and some have transient hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, or both. Patients who have antithyroid antibodies before treatment are at higher risk for thyroid dysfunction during treatment. Interleukin-2 has been associated with transient painless thyroiditis in 20% of patients. Interferon-β and -γ have not been reported to cause thyroid dysfunction. Growth Hormones - Somatrem - Somatropin Excessive use of thyroid hormones with growth hormones may accelerate epiphyseal closure. However, untreated hypothyroidism may interfere with growth response to growth hormone. Ketamine Concurrent use may produce marked hypertension and tachycardia; cautious administration to patients receiving thyroid hormone therapy is recommended. Methylxanthine Bronchodilators - (e.g., Theophylline) Decreased theophylline clearance may occur in hypothyroid patients; clearance returns to normal when the euthyroid state is achieved. Radiographic Agents Thyroid hormones may reduce the uptake of 123 I, 131 I, and 99m Tc. Sympathomimetics Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Chloral Hydrate Diazepam Ethionamide Lovastatin Metoclopramide 6-Mercaptopurine Nitroprusside Para-aminosalicylate sodium Perphenazine Resorcinol (excessive topical use) Thiazide Diuretics These agents have been associated with thyroid hormone and/or TSH level alterations by various mechanisms. Oral anticoagulants - Levothyroxine increases the response to oral anticoagulant therapy. Therefore, a decrease in the dose of anticoagulant may be warranted with correction of the hypothyroid state or when the Levothyroxine Sodium Tablets, USP dose is increased. Prothrombin time should be closely monitored to permit appropriate and timely dosage adjustments (see Table 2 ). Digitalis glycosides - The therapeutic effects of digitalis glycosides may be reduced by levothyroxine. Serum digitalis glycoside levels may be decreased when a hypothyroid patient becomes euthyroid, necessitating an increase in the dose of digitalis glycosides (see Table 2 ). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for drugs that affect thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics and metabolism (e.g., absorption, synthesis, secretion, catabolism, protein binding, and target tissue response) and may alter the therapeutic response to UNITHROID ( 7 ) 7.1 Drugs Known to Affect Thyroid Hormone Pharmacokinetics Many drugs can exert effects on thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics (e.g. absorption, synthesis, secretion, catabolism, protein binding, and target tissue response) and may alter the therapeutic response to UNITHROID (see Tables 2 – 5). Table 2: Drugs That May Decrease T4 Absorption (Hypothyroidism) Potential impact: Concurrent use may reduce the efficacy of UNITHROID by binding and delaying or preventing absorption, potentially resulting in hypothyroidism. Administer UNITHROID at least 4 hours apart from these agents. Orlistat Monitor patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and UNITHROID for changes in thyroid function. Administer UNITHROID at least 4 hours prior to these drugs or monitor thyrotropin-stimulating hormone (TSH) levels. Table 3: Drugs That May Alter T and Triiodothyronine (T3) Serum Transport Without Affecting Free Thyroxine (FT4) Concentration (Euthyroidism) Drug or Drug Class Effect Clofibrate Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives Estrogens (oral) Heroin / Methadone 5-Fluorouracil Mitotane Tamoxifen These drugs may increase serum thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG) concentration. Potential impact (below) : Administration of these agents with UNITHROID results in an initial transient increase in FT4. Salicylates (>2 g/day) Salicylates inhibit binding of T4 and T3 to TBG and transthyretin. Other drugs: Carbamazepine Furosemide (>80 mg IV) Heparin Hydantoins Non-Steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs - Fenamates These drugs may cause protein-binding site displacement. Furosemide has been shown to inhibit the protein binding of T4 to TBG and albumin, causing an increased free-T4 fraction in serum. Phenytoin and carbamazepine reduce serum protein binding of levothyroxine, and total and FT4 may be reduced by 20% to 40%, but most patients have normal serum TSH levels and are clinically euthyroid. Table 4: Drugs That May Alter Hepatic Metabolism of T4 (Hypothyroidism) Potential impact: Stimulation of hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing enzyme activity may cause increased hepatic degradation of levothyroxine, resulting in increased UNITHROID requirements. Table 5: Drugs That May Decrease Conversion of T4 to T3 Potential impact: Administration of these enzyme inhibitors decreases the peripheral conversion of T4 to T3, leading to decreased T3 levels. Drug or Drug Class Effect Beta-adrenergic antagonists (e.g., Propranolol >160 mg/day) In patients treated with large doses of propranolol (>160 mg/day), T3 and T4 levels change slightly, TSH levels remain normal, and patients are clinically euthyroid. Glucocorticoids (e.g., Dexamethasone ≥4 mg/day) Short-term administration of large doses of glucocorticoids may decrease serum T3 concentrations by 30% with minimal change in serum T4 levels. Other: Amiodarone Amiodarone inhibits peripheral conversion of levothyroxine (T4) to triiodothyronine (T3) and may cause isolated biochemical changes (increase in serum free-T4, and decreased or normal free-T3) in clinically euthyroid patients. 7.2 Antidiabetic Therapy Addition of UNITHROID therapy in patients with diabetes mellitus may worsen glycemic control and result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements. Carefully monitor glycemic control, especially when UNITHROID is started, changed, or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . 7.3 Oral Anticoagulants UNITHROID increases the response to oral anticoagulant therapy. Therefore, a decrease in the dose of anticoagulant may be warranted with correction of the hypothyroid state or when the UNITHROID dose is increased. 7.4 Digitalis Glycosides UNITHROID may reduce the therapeutic effects of digitalis glycosides. Serum digitalis glycoside levels may be decreased when a hypothyroid patient becomes euthyroid, necessitating an increase in the dose of digitalis glycosides. 7.5 Antidepressant Therapy Concurrent use of tricyclic (e.g., amitriptyline) or tetracyclic (e.g., maprotiline) antidepressants and UNITHROID may increase the therapeutic and toxic effects of both drugs, possibly due to increased receptor sensitivity to catecholamines. UNITHROID may accelerate the onset of action of tricyclics. Administration of sertraline in patients stabilized on UNITHROID may result in increased UNITHROID requirements. 7.6 Ketamine Concurrent use of ketamine and UNITHROID may produce marked hypertension and tachycardia. 7.7 Sympathomimetics Concurrent use of sympathomimetics and UNITHROID may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. 7.9 Drug-Food Interactions Consumption of certain foods may affect UNITHROID absorption thereby necessitating adjustments in dosing [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . Soybean flour (infant formula), cotton seed meal, walnuts, and dietary fiber may bind and decrease the absorption of UNITHROID from the GI tract. Measure and evaluate unbound (free) hormone and/or determine the free T4 index (FT4I) in this circumstance. Pregnancy, infectious hepatitis, estrogens, estrogen-containing oral contraceptives, and acute intermittent porphyria increase TBG concentrations. Nephrosis, severe hypoproteinemia, severe liver disease, acromegaly, androgens and corticosteroids decrease TBG concentration. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for drugs that affect thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics and metabolism (e.g., synthesis, secretion, catabolism, protein binding, and target tissue response) that may alter the therapeutic response to Levothyroxine Sodium Injection. ( 7 ) 7.1 Drugs Known to Affect Thyroid Hormone Pharmacokinetics Many drugs affect thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics and metabolism (e.g., synthesis, secretion, catabolism, protein binding, and target tissue response) and may alter the therapeutic response to Levothyroxine Sodium Injection (see Tables 1 - 3 ). Table 1: Drugs That May Alter T 4 and Triiodothyronine (T 3 ) Serum Transport Without Effecting Free Thyroxine (FT 4 ) Concentration (Euthyroidism) Drug or Drug Class Effect Clofibrate Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives Estrogens (oral) Heroin / Methadone 5-Fluorouracil Mitotane Tamoxifen These drugs may increase serum thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG) concentration. Potential impact (below): Administration of these agents with levothyroxine results in an initial transient increase in FT 4 . Continued administration results in a decrease in serum T 4 and normal FT 4 and TSH concentrations. Salicylates (> 2 g/day) Salicylates inhibit binding of T 4 and T 3 to TBG and transthyretin. An initial increase in serum FT 4 is followed by return of FT 4 to normal levels with sustained therapeutic serum salicylate concentrations, although total T 4 levels may decrease by as much as 30%. Table 2: Drugs That May Alter Hepatic Metabolism of T 4 (Hypothyroidism) Potential impact: Stimulation of hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing enzyme activity may cause increased hepatic degradation of levothyroxine, resulting in increased levothyroxine requirements. Table 3: Drugs That May Decrease Conversion of T 4 to T 3 Potential impact: Administration of these enzyme inhibitors decreases the peripheral conversion of T 4 to T 3 , leading to decreased T 3 levels. Drug or Drug Class Effect Beta-adrenergic antagonists (e.g., Propranolol > 160 mg/day) In patients treated with large doses of propranolol (> 160 mg/day), T 3 and T 4 levels change slightly, TSH levels remain normal, and patients are clinically euthyroid. Glucocorticoids (e.g., Dexamethasone ≥ 4 mg/day) Short-term administration of large doses of glucocorticoids may decrease serum T 3 concentrations by 30% with minimal change in serum T 4 levels. 7.2 Antidiabetic Therapy Addition of levothyroxine to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements. Careful monitoring of glycemic control is recommended. 7.3 Oral Anticoagulants Levothyroxine increases the response to oral anticoagulant therapy. Therefore, a decrease in the dose of anticoagulant may be warranted with correction of the hypothyroid state. 7.4 Digitalis Glycosides Levothyroxine may reduce the therapeutic effects of digitalis glycosides. 7.5 Antidepressant Therapy Concurrent use of tricyclic (e.g., amitriptyline) or tetracyclic (e.g., maprotiline) antidepressants and levothyroxine may increase the therapeutic and toxic effects of both drugs, possibly due to increased receptor sensitivity to catecholamines. Levothyroxine may accelerate the onset of action of tricyclics. 7.6 Ketamine Concurrent use of ketamine and levothyroxine may produce marked hypertension and tachycardia. 7.7 Sympathomimetics Concurrent use may of sympathomimetics and levothyroxine may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. 7.8 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions Consider changes in TBG concentration when interpreting T4 and T3 values. Pregnancy, infectious hepatitis, estrogens, estrogen containing oral contraceptives, and acute intermittent porphyria increase TBG concentrations. Familial hyper- or hypo-thyroxine binding globulinemias have been described, with the incidence of TBG deficiency approximating 1 in 9,000. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for drugs that affect thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics (e.g., absorption, synthesis, secretion, metabolism, protein binding, and target tissue response) and may alter the therapeutic response to THYQUIDITY. (7) 7.1 Drugs Known to Affect Thyroid Hormone Pharmacokinetics Many drugs can exert effects on thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics (e.g., absorption, synthesis, secretion, metabolism, protein binding, and target tissue response) and may alter the therapeutic response to THYQUIDITY (see Tables 2-5 below). Drugs That May Decrease T4 Absorption (Hypothyroidism) Potential impact: Concurrent use may reduce the efficacy of THYQUIDITY by binding and delaying or preventing absorption, potentially resulting in hypothyroidism. Drug or Drug Class Effect Calcium Carbonate Ferrous Sulfate Calcium carbonate may form an insoluble chelate with levothyroxine, and ferrous sulfate likely forms a ferric- thyroxine complex. Administer THYQUIDITY at least 4 hours apart from these agents. Orlistat Monitor patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and THYQUIDITY for changes in thyroid function. Administer THYQUIDITY at least 4 hours prior to these drugs or monitor TSH levels. Potential impact (below): Administration of these agents with THYQUIDITY results in an initial transient increase in FT4. Drugs That May Alter Hepatic Metabolism of T4 (Hypothyroidism) Potential impact: Stimulation of hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing enzyme activity may cause increased hepatic degradation of levothyroxine, resulting in increased THYQUIDITY requirements. Actions of particular beta-adrenergic antagonists may be impaired when the hypothyroid patient is converted to the euthyroid state. Glucocorticoids (e.g., Dexamethasone > 4 mg/day) Short-term administration of large doses of glucocorticoids may decrease serum T3 concentrations by 30% with minimal change in serum T4 levels. Other drugs: Amiodarone Amiodarone inhibits peripheral conversion of levothyroxine (T4) to triiodothyronine (T3) and may cause isolated biochemical changes (increase in serum free-T4, and decrease or normal free-T3) in clinically euthyroid patients. 7.2 Antidiabetic Therapy Addition of THYQUIDITY therapy in patients with diabetes mellitus may worsen glycemic control and result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements. Carefully monitor glycemic control, especially when thyroid therapy is started, changed, or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. 7.3 Oral Anticoagulants THYQUIDITY increases the response to oral anticoagulant therapy. Therefore, a decrease in the dose of anticoagulant may be warranted with correction of the hypothyroid state or when the THYQUIDITY dose is increased. 7.4 Digitalis Glycosides THYQUIDITY may reduce the therapeutic effects of digitalis glycosides. 7.5 Antidepressant Therapy Concurrent use of tricyclic (e.g., amitriptyline) or tetracyclic (e.g., maprotiline) antidepressants and THYQUIDITY may increase the therapeutic and toxic effects of both drugs, possibly due to increased receptor sensitivity to catecholamines. THYQUIDITY may accelerate the onset of action of tricyclics. Administration of sertraline in patients stabilized on THYQUIDITY may result in increased THYQUIDITY requirements. 7.6 Ketamine Concurrent use of ketamine and THYQUIDITY may produce marked hypertension and tachycardia. 7.7 Sympathomimetics Concurrent use of sympathomimetics and THYQUIDITY may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. 7.9 Drug-Food Interactions Consumption of certain foods may affect THYQUIDITY absorption thereby necessitating adjustments in dosing [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . Soybean products, such as infant formula and soybean flour, cottonseed meal, walnuts, and dietary fiber may bind and decrease the absorption of THYQUIDITY from the gastrointestinal tract. ( 7 ) 7.1 Drugs Known to Affect Thyroid Hormone Pharmacokinetics Many drugs can exert effects on thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics and metabolism (e.g., absorption, synthesis, secretion, catabolism, protein binding, and target tissue response) and may alter the therapeutic response to levothyroxine sodium tablets (Tables 5 to 8). Phenobarbital increases L-thyroxine metabolism by inducing uridine 5'-diphospho-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) and leads to lower T4 serum levels. Carefully monitor glycemic control, especially when thyroid therapy is started, changed, or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . 7.3 Oral Anticoagulants Levothyroxine sodium tablet increases the response to oral anticoagulant therapy.

=== NAPROXEN SODIUM ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Pain reliever/fever reducer Purposes Pain reliever/fever reducer Purpose Nighttime sleep-aid Pain reliever Purpose Pain reliever/ fever reducer
Indications: Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: minor pain of arthritis muscular aches backache menstrual cramps headache toothache the common cold temporarily reduces fever Uses • temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: • minor pain of arthritis • muscular aches • backache • menstrual cramps • headache • toothache • the common cold • temporarily reduces fever Uses for relief of occasional sleeplessness when associated with minor aches and pains help you fall asleep and stay asleep Uses ■ temporarily relieves minor aches and pain due to: ■ headache ■ muscular aches ■ toothache ■ the common cold ■ backache ■ menstrual cramps ■ minor pain of arthritis ■ temporarily reduces fever
Dosage: Directions do not take more than directed the smallest effective dose should be used drink a full glass of water with each dose Adults and children 12 years and older: take 1 caplet every 8 to 12 hours while symptoms last for the first dose you may take 2 caplets within the first hour do not exceed 2 caplets in any 8 to 12 hour period do not exceed 3 caplets in a 24 hour period Children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions • do not take more than directed • the smallest effective dose should be used • drink a full glass of water with each dose Adults and children 12 years and older: • take 1 caplet every 8 to 12 hours while symptoms last • for the first dose you may take 2 caplets within the first hour • do not exceed 2 caplets in any 8- to 12-hour period • do not exceed 3 caplets in a 24-hour period Children under 12 years: • ask a doctor Directions do not take more than directed the smallest effective dose should be used drink a full glass of water with each dose Adults and children 12 years and older take 1 tablet every 8 to 12 hours while symptoms last for the first dose you may take 2 tablets within the first hour do not exceed 2 tablets in any 8- to 12-hour period do not exceed 3 tablets in a 24-hour period Children under 12 years ask a doctor Directions • do not take more than directed • the smallest effective dose should be used • drink a full glass of water with each dose Adults and children 12 years and older • take 1 caplet every 8 to 12 hours while symptoms last • for the first dose you may take 2 caplets within the first hour • do not exceed 2 caplets in any 8- to 12-hour period • do not exceed 3 caplets in a 24-hour period Children under 12 years • ask a doctor Directions do not take more than directed drink a full glass of water with each dose adults and children 12 years and over: take 2 tablets at bedtime do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours if taken with food, this product may take longer to work Directions do not take more than directed the smallest effective dose should be used drink a full glass of water with each dose Adults and children 12 years and older take 1 caplet every 8 to 12 hours while symptoms last for the first dose you may take 2 caplets within the first hour do not exceed 2 caplets in any 8- to 12-hour period do not exceed 3 caplets in a 24-hour period Children under 12 years ask a doctor Directions do not take more than directed the smallest effective dose should be used drink a full glass of water with each dose if taken with food, this product may take longer to work adults and children 12 years and older: take 1 capsule every 8 to 12 hours while symptoms last for the first dose you may take 2 capsules within the first hour do not exceed 2 capsules in any 8- to 12-hour period do not exceed 3 capsules in a 24-hour period children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions ■ do not take more than directed ■ the smallest effective dose should be used ■ drink a full glass of water with each dose ■ adults and children 12 years and older ■ take 1 tablet every 8 to12 hours while symptoms last ■ for the first dose, you may take 2 tablets within the first hour ■ do not exceed 2 tablets in any 8-to 12-hour period ■ do not exceed 3 tablets in a 24-hour period ■ children under 12 years: ask a doctor
Warnings: Warnings Allergy alert: Naproxen sodium may cause a severe allergic reaction, especially in people allergic to aspirin. Symptoms may include hives facial swelling asthma (wheezing) shock skin reddening rash blisters If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Stomach bleeding warning: This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product take more or for a longer time than directed. Heart attack and stroke warning: NSAIDs, except aspirin, increase the risk of heart attack, heart failure, and stroke. These can be fatal. The risk is higher if you use more than directed or for longer than directed. Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever/fever reducer right before or after heart surgery Ask a doctor before use if the stomach bleeding warning applies to you you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, or kidney disease you are taking a diuretic you have problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers you have asthma Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are under a doctor’s care for any serious condition taking any other drug When using this product take with food or milk if stomach upset occurs the risk of heart attack or stroke may increase if you use more than directed or for longer than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: feel faint vomit blood have bloody or black stools have stomach pain that does not get better you have symptoms of heart problems or stroke: chest pain trouble breathing weakness in one part or side of body slurred speech leg swelling pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days you have difficulty swallowing it feels like the pill is stuck in your throat redness or swelling is present in the painful area any new symptoms appear If pregnant or breast-feeding, If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. It is especially important not to use naproxen sodium during the last 3 months of pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery. Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Symptoms may include: • hives • facial swelling • asthma (wheezing) • shock • skin reddening • rash • blisters If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. The chance is higher if you • are age 60 or older • have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems • take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug • take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) • have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product • take more or for a longer time than directed Heart attack and stroke warning: NSAIDs, except aspirin, increase the risk of heart attack, heart failure, and stroke. Do not use • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever/fever reducer • right before or after heart surgery Ask a doctor before use if • the stomach bleeding warning applies to you • you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn • you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, kidney disease, asthma, or had a stroke • you are taking a diuretic • you have problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • under a doctor’s care for any serious condition • taking aspirin for heart attack or stroke, because naproxen may decrease this benefit of aspirin • taking any other drug When using this product • take with food or milk if stomach upset occurs Stop use and ask a doctor if • you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: • feel faint • vomit blood • have bloody or black stools • have stomach pain that does not get better • you have symptoms of heart problems or stroke: • chest pain • trouble breathing • weakness in one part or side of body • slurred speech • leg swelling • pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • you have difficulty swallowing • it feels like the pill is stuck in your throat • redness or swelling is present in the painful area • any new symptoms appear If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. It is especially important not to use naproxen sodium at 20 weeks or later in pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). The chance is higher if you: • are age 60 or older • have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems • take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug • take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) • have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product • take more or for a longer time than directed Heart attack and stroke warning: NSAIDs, except aspirin, increase the risk of heart attack, heart failure, and stroke. Symptoms may include: hives facial swelling asthma (wheezing) shock skin reddening rash blisters If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. The chance is higher if you: are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) take more or for a longer time than directed Heart attack and stroke warning: NSAIDs, except aspirin, increase the risk of heart attack, heart failure, and stroke. The risk is higher if you use more than directed or for longer than directed Warnings Allergy alert Naproxen sodium may cause a severe allergic reaction, especially in people allergic to aspirin. Stomach bleeding warning This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you: are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product take more or for a longer time than directed Heart attack and stroke warning NSAIDs, except aspirin, increase the risk of heart attack, heart failure, and stroke. Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever/fever reducer right before or after heart surgery Ask a doctor before use if the stomach bleeding warning applies to you you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, kidney disease, asthma, or had a stroke you are taking a diuretic you have problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are under a doctor's care for any serious condition taking aspirin for heart attack or stroke, because naproxen may decrease this benefit of aspirin taking any other drug When using this product take with food or milk if stomach upset occurs Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: ■ feel faint ■ vomit blood ■ have bloody or black stools ■ have stomach pain that does not get better ■ you have symptoms of heart problems or stroke: ■ chest pain ■ trouble breathing ■ weakness in one part or side of body ■ slurred speech ■ leg swelling ■ pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days ■ fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days ■ you have difficulty swallowing ■ it feels like the pill is stuck in your throat ■ redness or swelling is present in the painful area ■ any new symptoms appear If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-822-1222) The chance is higher if you: are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) take more or for a longer time than directed Heart attack and stroke: NSAIDs, except aspirin, increase the risk of heart attack, heart failure, and stroke. Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever/fever reducer right before or after heart surgery Ask a doctor before use if the stomach bleeding warning applies to you you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, kidney disease,asthma, or had a stroke you are taking a diuretic you have problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are under a doctor’s care for any serious condition taking any other drug When using this product take with food or milk if stomach upset occurs Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: feel faint have bloody or black stools vomit blood have stomach pain that does not get better you have symptoms of heart problems or stroke: chest pain slurred speech leg swelling trouble breathing weakness in one part or side of body pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present in the painful area any new symptoms appear you have difficulty swallowing it feels like the capsule is stuck in your throat If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.(1-800-222-1222). Symptoms may include: ■ shock ■ facial swelling ■ asthma (wheezing) ■ hives ■ skin reddening ■ blisters ■ rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. The chance is higher if you ■ have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems ■ take blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug ■ are age 60 or older ■ take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs [aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others] ■ take more or for a longer time than directed ■ have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product. Do not use ■ right before or after heart surgery ■ if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever/fever reducer Ask a doctor before use if ■ the stomach bleeding warning applies to you ■ you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn ■ you have asthma ■ you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis or kidney disease ■ you have a problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers ■ you are taking a diuretic Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are ■ under a doctor's care for any serious condition ■ taking any other drug When using this product ■ take with food or milk if stomach upset occurs ■ the risk of heart attack or stroke may increase if you use more than directed or for longer than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: ■ feel faint ■ vomit blood ■ have bloody or black stools ■ have stomach pain that does not get better ■ pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days ■ fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days ■ you have difficulty swallowing ■ it feels like the pill is stuck in your throat ■ redness or swelling is present in the painful area ■ any new symptoms appear If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. The chance is higher if you: are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product take more or for a longer time than directed Heart attack and stroke warning Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever/fever reducer right before or after heart surgery Ask a doctor before use if stomach bleeding warning applies to you you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, kidney disease, asthma, or had a stroke you are taking a diuretic you have problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are under a doctor's care for any serious condition taking aspirin for heart attack or stroke, because naproxen may decrease this benefit of aspirin taking any other drug When using this product take with food or milk if stomach upset occurs Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: feel faint vomit blood have bloody or black stools have stomach pain that does not get better you have symptoms of heart problems or stroke: chest pain trouble breathing slurred speech weakness in one part or side of body leg swelling pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present in the painful area any new symptoms appear you have difficulty swallowing it feels like the capsule is stuck in your throat If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Symptoms may include: ■ shock ■ facial swelling ■ asthma (wheezing) ■ hives ■ skin reddening ​ ■ blisters ■ rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Heart attack and stroke warning: NSAIDs, except aspirin, increases the risk of heart attack, heart failure, and stroke. Do not use ■ if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever/fever reducer ■ right before or after heart surgery Ask a doctor before use if ■ the stomach bleeding warning applies to you ■ you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn ■ you are taking a diuretic ■ you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, kidney disease, asthma, or had a stroke ■ you have a problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are ■ under a doctor's care for any serious condition ■ taking any other drug When using this product ■ take with food or milk if stomach upset occurs Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: ■ feel faint ■ vomit blood ■ have bloody or black stools ■ have stomach pain that does not get better ■ you have symptoms of heart problems or stroke: ■ leg swelling ■ chest pain ■ slurred speech ■ trouble breathing ■ weakness in one part or side of body ■ pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days ■ fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days ■ you have difficulty swallowing ■ it feels like the pill is stuck in your throat ■ redness or swelling is present in the painful area ■ any new symptoms appear If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use.

=== PREDNISONE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS Prednisone tablets are indicated in the following conditions: 1. Endocrine Disorders Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the first choice; synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable; in infancy mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance) Congenital adrenal hyperplasia Hypercalcemia associated with cancer Nonsuppurative thyroiditis 2. Rheumatic Disorders As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in: Psoriatic arthritis Rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low-dose maintenance therapy) Ankylosing spondylitis Acute and subacute bursitis Acute nonspecific tenosynovitis Acute gouty arthritis Post-traumatic osteoarthritis Synovitis of osteoarthritis Epicondylitis 3. Collagen Diseases During an exacerbation or as maintenance therapy in selected cases of: Systemic lupus erythematosus Systemic dermatomyositis (polymyositis) Acute rheumatic carditis 4. Dermatologic Diseases Pemphigus Bullous dermatitis herpetiformis Severe erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson syndrome) Exfoliative dermatitis Mycosis fungoides Severe psoriasis Severe seborrheic dermatitis 5. Allergic States Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment: Seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis Bronchial asthma Contact dermatitis Atopic dermatitis Serum sickness Drug hypersensitivity reactions 6. Ophthalmic Diseases Severe acute and chronic allergic and inflammatory processes involving the eye and its adnexa such as: Allergic corneal marginal ulcers Herpes zoster ophthalmicus Anterior segment inflammation Diffuse posterior uveitis and choroiditis Sympathetic ophthalmia Allergic conjunctivitis Keratitis Chorioretinitis Optic neuritis Iritis and iridocyclitis 7. Respiratory Diseases Symptomatic sarcoidosis Loeffler’s syndrome not manageable by other means Berylliosis Fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy Aspiration pneumonitis 8. Hematologic Disorders Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura in adults Secondary thrombocytopenia in adults Acquired (autoimmune) hemolytic anemia Erythroblastopenia (RBC anemia) Congenital (erythroid) hypoplastic anemia 9. Neoplastic Diseases For palliative management of: Leukemias and lymphomas in adults Acute leukemia of childhood 10. Edematous States To induce a diuresis or remission of proteinuria in the nephrotic syndrome, without uremia, of the idiopathic type or that due to lupus erythematosus. 11. Gastrointestinal Diseases To tide the patient over a critical period of the disease in: Ulcerative colitis Regional enteritis 12. Nervous System Acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis 13. Miscellaneous Tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy Trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement INDICATIONS AND USAGE PredniSONE Tablets are indicated in the following conditions: 1. Edematous States To induce a diuresis or remission of proteinuria in the nephrotic syndrome, without uremia, of the idiopathic type or that due to lupus erythematosus 11. Miscellaneous Tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy. Trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement INDICATIONS AND USAGE Prednisone tablets, USP are indicated in the following conditions: Endocrine Disorders Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the first choice; synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable; in infancy mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance); congenital adrenal hyperplasia; hypercalcemia associated with cancer; nonsuppurative thyroiditis. Rheumatic Disorders As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in: psoriatic arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low-dose maintenance therapy), ankylosing spondylitis, acute and subacute bursitis, acute nonspecific tenosynovitis, acute gouty arthritis, post-traumatic osteoarthritis, synovitis of osteoarthritis, epicondylitis. Collagen Diseases During an exacerbation or as maintenance therapy in selected cases of: systemic lupus erythematosus, systemic dermatomyositis (polymyositis), acute rheumatic carditis. Dermatologic Diseases Pemphigus; bullous dermatitis herpetiformis; severe erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson syndrome); exfoliative dermatitis; mycosis fungoides; severe psoriasis; severe seborrheic dermatitis. Allergic States Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment: seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis; bronchial asthma; contact dermatitis; atopic dermatitis; serum sickness; drug hypersensitivity reactions. Ophthalmic Diseases Severe acute and chronic allergic and inflammatory processes involving the eye and its adnexa such as: allergic corneal marginal ulcers, herpes zoster ophthalmicus, anterior segment inflammation, diffuse posterior uveitis and choroiditis, sympathetic ophthalmia, allergic conjunctivitis, keratitis, chorioretinitis, optic neuritis, iritis and iridocyclitis. Respiratory Diseases Symptomatic sarcoidosis; Loeffler’s syndrome not manageable by other means; berylliosis; fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy; aspiration pneumonitis. Hematologic Disorders Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura in adults; secondary thrombocytopenia in adults; acquired (autoimmune) hemolytic anemia; erythroblastopenia (RBC anemia); congenital (erythroid) hypoplastic anemia. Neoplastic Diseases For palliative management of: leukemias and lymphomas in adults, acute leukemia of childhood. Gastrointestinal Diseases To tide the patient over a critical period of the disease in: ulcerative colitis, regional enteritis. Miscellaneous Tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy; trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Prednisone delayed-release tablets are indicated in the treatment of the following diseases or conditions: Prednisone delayed-release tablets are a corticosteroid indicated as an anti-inflammatory or immunosuppressive agent for certain allergic, dermatologic, gastrointestinal, hematologic, ophthalmologic, nervous system, renal, respiratory, rheumatologic, specific infectious diseases or conditions and organ transplantation ( 1 ) for the treatment of certain endocrine conditions ( 1 ) for palliation of certain neoplastic conditions ( 1 ) 1.1 Allergic Conditions Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment in adults and pediatric populations with: Atopic dermatitis Drug hypersensitivity reactions Seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis Serum sickness 1.2 Dermatologic Diseases Bullous dermatitis herpetiformis Contact dermatitis Exfoliative erythroderma Mycosis fungoides Pemphigus Severe erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson syndrome) 1.3 Endocrine Conditions Congenital adrenal hyperplasia Hypercalcemia of malignancy Nonsuppurative thyroiditis Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency: hydrocortisone or cortisone is the first choice: synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable 1.4 Gastrointestinal Diseases During acute episodes in: Crohn's Disease Ulcerative colitis 1.5 Hematologic Diseases Acquired (autoimmune) hemolytic anemia Diamond-Blackfan anemia Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura in adults Pure red cell aplasia Secondary thrombocytopenia in adults 1.6 Neoplastic Conditions For the treatment of: Acute leukemia Aggressive lymphomas 1.7 Nervous System Conditions Acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis Cerebral edema associated with primary or metastatic brain tumor, craniotomy or head injury 1.8 Ophthalmic Conditions Sympathetic ophthalmia Uveitis and ocular inflammatory conditions unresponsive to topical steroids 1.9 Conditions Related to Organ Transplantation Acute or chronic solid organ rejection 1.10 Pulmonary Diseases Acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis Aspiration pneumonitis Asthma Fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate chemotherapy Hypersensitivity pneumonitis Idiopathic bronchiolitis obliterans with organizing pneumonia Idiopathic eosinophilic pneumonias Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) associated with hypoxemia occurring in an HIV(+) individual who is also under treatment with appropriate anti-PCP antibiotics. Symptomatic sarcoidosis 1.11 Renal Conditions To induce a diuresis or remission of proteinuria in nephrotic syndrome, without uremia, of the idiopathic type or that due to lupus erythematosus 1.12 Rheumatologic Conditions As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in: Acute gouty arthritis During an exacerbation or as maintenance therapy in selected cases of: Ankylosing spondylitis Dermatomyositis/polymyositis Polymyalgia rheumatica Psoriatic arthritis Relapsing polychondritis Rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low dose maintenance therapy) Sjogren's syndrome Systemic lupus erythematosus Vasculitis 1.13 Specific Infectious Diseases Trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement. Tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy. INDICATIONS Prednisone Tablets, USP are indicated in the following conditions: 1. Rheumatic Disorders As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in: Psoriatic arthritis Rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low-dose maintenance therapy) Ankylosing spondylitis Acute and subacute bursitis Acute nonspecific tenosynovitis Acute gouty arthritis Post-traumatic osteoarthritis Synovitis of osteoarthritis Epicondylitis. 3. Miscellaneous Tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or, impending block when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy Trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement De rmatologic Diseases Pemphigus; bullous dermatitis herpetiformis; severe erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson syndrome); exfoliative dermatitis; mycosis fungoides; severe psoriasis; severe seborrheic dermatitis. INDICATIONS 1. Endocrine Disorders Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the first choice; synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable; in infancy mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance) Congenital adrenal hyperplasia Nonsuppurative thyroiditis Hypercalcemia associated with cancer 2. Rheumatic Disorders As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in: Psoriatic arthritis Rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low-dose maintenance therapy) Ankylosing spondylitis Acute and subacute bursitis Acute non-specific tenosynovitis Acute gouty arthritis Post-traumatic osteoarthritis Synovitis of osteoarthritis Epicondylitis 3. Collagen Diseases During an exacerbation or as maintenance therapy in selected cases of: Systemic lupus erythematosus Acute rheumatic carditis 4. Allergic States Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment: Seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis Serum sickness Bronchial asthma Contact dermatitis Atopic dermatitis Drug hypersensitivity reactions 6. Ophthalmic Diseases Severe acute and chronic allergic and inflammatory processes involving the eye and its adnexa such as: Allergic conjunctivitis Keratitis Allergic corneal marginal ulcers Herpes zoster ophthalmicus Iritis and iridocyclitis Chorioretinitis Anterior segment inflammation Diffuse posterior uveitis and choroiditis Optic neuritis Sympathetic ophthalmia. 7. Miscellaneous Tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used concurrently with appropriate anti-tuberculous chemotherapy Trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement INDICATIONS AND USAGE Prednisone tablets and solutions are indicated in the following conditions: Endocrine Disorders Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the first choice: synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable; in infancy mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance); congenital adrenal hyperplasia; hypercalcemia associated with cancer; nonsuppurative thyroiditis. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Prednisone tablets USP are indicated in the following conditions: Endocrine Disorders Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the first choice: synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable; in infancy mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance); congenital adrenal hyperplasia; hypercalcemia associated with cancer; nonsuppurative thyroiditis. Respiratory Diseases Symptomatic sarcoidosis; Loeffler's syndrome not manageable by other means; berylliosis; fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy; aspiration pneumonitis. Nervous System Acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis Miscellaneous Tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy; trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The initial dosage of prednisone may vary from 5 mg to 60 mg of prednisone per day depending on the specific disease entity being treated. In situations of less severity lower doses will generally suffice while in selected patients higher initial doses may be required. The initial dosage should be maintained or adjusted until a satisfactory response is noted. If after a reasonable period of time there is a lack of satisfactory clinical response, prednisone should be discontinued and the patient transferred to other appropriate therapy. IT SHOULD BE EMPHASIZED THAT DOSAGE REQUIREMENTS ARE VARIABLE AND MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED ON THE BASIS OF THE DISEASE UNDER TREATMENT AND THE RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT . After a favorable response is noted, the proper maintenance dosage should be determined by decreasing the initial drug dosage in small decrements at appropriate time intervals until the lowest dosage which will maintain an adequate clinical response is reached. It should be kept in mind that constant monitoring is needed in regard to drug dosage. Included in the situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process, the patient’s individual drug responsiveness, and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease entity under treatment; in this latter situation it may be necessary to increase the dosage of prednisone for a period of time consistent with the patient’s condition. If after long-term therapy the drug is to be stopped, it is recommended that it be withdrawn gradually rather than abruptly. Multiple Sclerosis In the treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis daily doses of 200 mg of prednisolone for a week followed by 80 mg every other day for 1 month have been shown to be effective. (Dosage range is the same for prednisone and prednisolone.) ADT ® (Alternate Day Therapy) ADT is a corticosteroid dosing regimen in which twice the usual daily dose of corticoid is administered every other morning. The purpose of this mode of therapy is to provide the patient requiring long-term pharmacologic dose treatment with the beneficial effects of corticoids while minimizing certain undesirable effects, including pituitary-adrenal suppression, the Cushingoid state, corticoid withdrawal symptoms, and growth suppression in children. The rationale for this treatment schedule is based on two major premises: (a) the anti-inflammatory or therapeutic effect of corticoids persists longer than their physical presence and metabolic effects and (b) administration of the corticosteroid every other morning allows for re-establishment of more nearly normal hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) activity on the off-steroid day. A brief review of the HPA physiology may be helpful in understanding this rationale. Acting primarily through the hypothalamus a fall in free cortisol stimulates the pituitary gland to produce increasing amounts of corticotropin (ACTH) while a rise in free cortisol inhibits ACTH secretion. Normally the HPA system is characterized by diurnal (circadian) rhythm. Serum levels of ACTH rise from a low point about 10 pm to a peak level about 6 am. Increasing levels of ACTH stimulate adrenocortical activity resulting in a rise in plasma cortisol with maximal levels occurring between 2 am and 8 am. This rise in cortisol dampens ACTH production and in turn adrenocortical activity. There is a gradual fall in plasma corticoids during the day with lowest levels occurring about midnight. The diurnal rhythm of the HPA axis is lost in Cushing’s disease, a syndrome of adrenocortical hyperfunction characterized by obesity with centripetal fat distribution, thinning of the skin with easy bruisability, muscle wasting with weakness, hypertension, latent diabetes, osteoporosis, electrolyte imbalance, etc. The same clinical findings of hyperadrenocorticism may be noted during long-term pharmacologic dose corticoid therapy administered in conventional daily divided doses. It would appear, then, that a disturbance in the diurnal cycle with maintenance of elevated corticoid values during the night may play a significant role in the development of undesirable corticoid effects. Escape from these constantly elevated plasma levels for even short periods of time may be instrumental in protecting against undesirable pharmacologic effects. During conventional pharmacologic dose corticosteroid therapy, ACTH production is inhibited with subsequent suppression of cortisol production by the adrenal cortex. Recovery time for normal HPA activity is variable depending upon the dose and duration of treatment. During this time the patient is vulnerable to any stressful situation. Although it has been shown that there is considerably less adrenal suppression following a single morning dose of prednisolone (10 mg) as opposed to a quarter of that dose administered every 6 hours, there is evidence that some suppressive effect on adrenal activity may be carried over into the following day when pharmacologic doses are used. Further, it has been shown that a single dose of certain corticosteroids will produce adrenocortical suppression for two or more days. Other corticoids, including methylprednisolone, hydrocortisone, prednisone, and prednisolone, are considered to be short acting (producing adrenocortical suppression for 1¼ to 1½ days following a single dose) and thus are recommended for alternate day therapy. The following should be kept in mind when considering alternate day therapy: 1) Basic principles and indications for corticosteroid therapy should apply. The benefits of ADT should not encourage the indiscriminate use of steroids. 2) ADT is a therapeutic technique primarily designed for patients in whom long-term pharmacologic corticoid therapy is anticipated. 3) In less severe disease processes in which corticoid therapy is indicated, it may be possible to initiate treatment with ADT. More severe disease states usually will require daily divided high dose therapy for initial control of the disease process. The initial suppressive dose level should be continued until satisfactory clinical response is obtained, usually four to ten days in the case of many allergic and collagen diseases. It is important to keep the period of initial suppressive dose as brief as possible particularly when subsequent use of alternate day therapy is intended. Once control has been established, two courses are available: (a) change to ADT and then gradually reduce the amount of corticoid given every other day or (b) following control of the disease process reduce the daily dose of corticoid to the lowest effective level as rapidly as possible and then change over to an alternate day schedule. Theoretically, course (a) may be preferable. 4) Because of the advantages of ADT, it may be desirable to try patients on this form of therapy who have been on daily corticoids for long periods of time (e.g., patients with rheumatoid arthritis). Since these patients may already have a suppressed HPA axis, establishing them on ADT may be difficult and not always successful. However, it is recommended that regular attempts be made to change them over. It may be helpful to triple or even quadruple the daily maintenance dose and administer this every other day rather than just doubling the daily dose if difficulty is encountered. Once the patient is again controlled, an attempt should be made to reduce this dose to a minimum. 5) As indicated above, certain corticosteroids, because of their prolonged suppressive effect on adrenal activity, are not recommended for alternate day therapy (e.g., dexamethasone and betamethasone). 6) The maximal activity of the adrenal cortex is between 2 am and 8 am, and it is minimal between 4 pm and midnight. Exogenous corticosteroids suppress adrenocortical activity the least, when given at the time of maximal activity (am). 7) In using ADT it is important, as in all therapeutic situations to individualize and tailor the therapy to each patient. Complete control of symptoms will not be possible in all patients. An explanation of the benefits of ADT will help the patient to understand and tolerate the possible flare-up in symptoms which may occur in the latter part of the off-steroid day. Other symptomatic therapy may be added or increased at this time if needed. 8) In the event of an acute flare-up of the disease process, it may be necessary to return to a full suppressive daily divided corticoid dose for control. Once control is again established alternate day therapy may be re-instituted. 9) Although many of the undesirable features of corticosteroid therapy can be minimized by ADT, as in any therapeutic situation, the physician must carefully weigh the benefit-risk ratio for each patient in whom corticoid therapy is being considered. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Gastric irritation may be reduced if taken before, during, or immediately after meals or with food or milk. The maximal activity of the adrenal cortex is between 2 am and 8 am, and it is minimal between 4 pm and midnight. Exogenous corticosteroids suppress adrenocorticoid activity the least when given at the time of maximal activity (am) for single dose administration. Therefore, it is recommended that prednisone be administered in the morning prior to 9 am and when large doses are given, administration of antacids between meals to help prevent peptic ulcers. Multiple dose therapy should be evenly distributed in evenly spaced intervals throughout the day. Dietary salt restriction may be advisable in patients. Do not stop taking this medicine without first talking to your doctor. Avoid abrupt withdraw of therapy. The initial dosage of PredniSONE tablets may vary from 5 mg to 60 mg per day, depending on the specific disease entity being treated. In situations of less severity lower doses will generally suffice, while in selected patients higher initial doses may be required. IT SHOULD BE EMPHASIZED THAT DOSAGE REQUIREMENTS ARE VARIABLE AND MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED ON THE BASIS OF THE DISEASE UNDER TREATMENT AND THE RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT. After a favorable response is noted, the proper maintenance dosage should be determined by decreasing the initial drug dosage in small increments at appropriate time intervals until the lowest dosage which will maintain an adequate clinical response is reached. Included in the situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process, the patient's individual drug responsiveness, and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease entity under treatment; in this latter situation, it may be necessary to increase the dosage of PredniSONE for a period of time consistent with the patient's condition. (Dosage range is the same for prednisone and prednisolone.) Alternate Day Therapy Alternate day therapy is a corticosteroid dosing regimen in which twice the usual daily dose of corticoid is administered every other morning. The purpose of this mode of therapy is to provide the patient requiring longterm pharmacologic dose treatment with the beneficial effects of corticoids while minimizing certain undesirable effects, including pituitary-adrenal suppression, the Cushingoid state, corticoid withdrawal symptoms, and growth suppression in children. The diurnal rhythm of the HPA axis is lost in Cushing's disease, a syndrome of adrenocortical hyperfunction characterized by obesity with centripetal fat distribution, thinning of the skin with easy bruisability, muscle wasting with weakness, hypertension, latent diabetes, osteoporosis, electrolyte imbalance, etc. Other corticoids, including methylprednisolone, hydrocortisone, prednisone, and prednisolone, are considered to be short acting (producing adrenocortical suppression for 1 1/4 ; to 11/2; days following a single dose) and thus are recommended for alternate day therapy. The following should be kept in mind when considering alternate day therapy: Basic principles and indications for corticosteroid therapy should apply. The benefits of alternate day therapy should not encourage the indiscriminate use of steroids. Alternate day therapy is a therapeutic technique primarily designed for patients in whom long-term pharmacologic corticoid therapy is anticipated. In less severe disease processes in which corticoid therapy is indicated, it may be possible to initiate treatment with alternate day therapy. Once control has been established, two courses are available: (a) change to alternate day therapy and then gradually reduce the amount of corticoid given every other day or (b) following control of the disease process reduce the daily dose of corticoid to the lowest effective level as rapidly as possible and then change over to an alternate day schedule. Because of the advantages of alternate day therapy, it may be desirable to try patients on this form of therapy who have been on daily corticoids for long periods of time (e.g., patients with rheumatoid arthritis). Since these patients may already have a suppressed HPA axis, establishing them on alternate day therapy may be difficult and not always successful. As indicated above, certain corticosteroids, because of their prolonged suppressive effect on adrenal activity, are not recommended for alternate day therapy (e.g., dexamethasone and betamethasone). In using alternate day therapy it is important, as in all therapeutic situations to individualize and tailor the therapy to each patient. An explanation of the benefits of alternate day therapy will help the patient to understand and tolerate the possible flareup in symptoms which may occur in the latter part of the off-steroid day. In the event of an acute flare-up of the disease process, it may be necessary to return to a full suppressive daily divided corticoid dose for control. Although many of the undesirable features of corticosteroid therapy can be minimized by alternate day therapy, as in any therapeutic situation, the physician must carefully weigh the benefit-risk ratio for each patient in whom corticoid therapy is being considered. (Dosage range is the same for prednisone and prednisolone.) Alternate Day Therapy Alternate day therapy is a corticosteroid dosing regimen in which twice the usual daily dose of corticoid is administered every other morning. The initial dosage of prednisone may vary from 5 mg to 60 mg per day, depending on the specific disease entity being treated. Included in the situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process, the patient’s individual drug responsiveness, and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease entity under treatment; in this latter situation, it may be necessary to increase the dosage of prednisone for a period of time consistent with the patient’s condition. Other corticoids, including methylprednisolone, hydrocortisone, prednisone, and prednisolone, are considered to be short acting (producing adrenocortical suppression for 11/4 to 11/2 days following a single dose) and thus are recommended for alternate day therapy. The following should be kept in mind when considering alternate day therapy: 1. Basic principles and indications for corticosteroid therapy should apply. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. An explanation of the benefits of alternate day therapy will help the patient to understand and tolerate the possible flare-up in symptoms which may occur in the latter part of the off-steroid day. 8. Once control is again established alternate day therapy may be reinstituted. 9. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Individualize dosing based on disease severity and patient response. The timing of administration should take into account the delayed-release pharmacokinetics and the disease or condition being treated ( 2 , 12.1 ): Initial dose: Prednisone delayed-release tablets 5 mg administered once per day. Patients currently on immediate-release prednisone, prednisolone, or methylprednisolone should be switched to prednisone delayed-release tablets at an equivalent dose based on relative potency. ( 2.1 , 2.4 ) Maintenance dose: Use lowest dosage that will maintain an adequate clinical response. ( 2.1 ) Discontinuation: Withdraw gradually if discontinuing long-term or high-dose therapy. ( 2.1 ) Prednisone delayed-release tablets should be taken daily with food. ( 2.3 , 12.3 ) Prednisone delayed-release tablets should be swallowed whole and not broken, divided, or chewed. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosing Dosage of prednisone delayed-release tablets should be individualized according to the severity of the disease and the response of the patient. For pediatric patients, the recommended dosage should be governed by the same considerations rather than strict adherence to the ratio indicated by age or body weight. The maximal activity of the adrenal cortex is between 2 am and 8 am and is minimal between 4 pm and midnight. Exogenous corticosteroids suppress adrenocorticoid activity the least when given at the time of maximal activity. Prednisone delayed-release tablet is a delayed-release formulation of prednisone which releases the active substance beginning approximately 4 hours after intake [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. The timing of prednisone delayed-release tablets administration should take into account the delayed-release pharmacokinetics and the disease or condition being treated. The initial dosage of prednisone delayed-release tablets may vary from 5 to 60 mg per day depending on the specific disease entity being treated. Patients currently on immediate release prednisone, prednisolone, or methylprednisolone should be switched to prednisone delayed-release tablets at an equivalent dose based on relative potency (2.4). In situations of less severity, lower doses will generally suffice while in selected patients higher initial doses may be required. If after a reasonable period there is a lack of satisfactory clinical response, prednisone delayed-release tablets should be discontinued and the patient transferred to other appropriate therapy. Included in the situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process, the patient's individual drug responsiveness, and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease entity under treatment. In this latter situation it may be necessary to increase the dosage of prednisone delayed-release tablets for a period of time consistent with the patient's condition. If a period of spontaneous remission occurs in a chronic condition, treatment should be discontinued. 2.2 Recommended Monitoring Blood pressure, body weight, routine laboratory studies (including 2-hour postprandial blood glucose and serum potassium), and chest X-ray should be obtained at regular intervals during prolonged therapy with prednisone delayed-release tablets. Upper GI X-rays are desirable in patients with known or suspected peptic ulcer disease. 2.3 Method of Administration Prednisone delayed-release tablets are for oral administration. Prednisone delayed-release tablets should be taken daily with food. [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] Prednisone delayed-release tablets should not be broken, divided, or chewed because the delayed release of prednisone is dependent on an intact coating [see Description (11)] . 2.4 Corticosteroid Comparison Chart For the purpose of comparison, one 5 mg prednisone delayed-release tablet is the equivalent milligram dosage of the following various corticosteroids: Betamethasone, 0.75 mg Paramethasone, 2 mg Cortisone, 25 mg Prednisolone, 5 mg Dexamethasone, 0.75 mg Prednisone, 5 mg Hydrocortisone, 20 mg Triamcinolone, 4 mg Methylprednisolone, 4 mg These dose relationships apply only to oral or intravenous administration of these compounds. When these substances or their derivatives are injected intramuscularly or into joint spaces, their relative properties may be greatly altered. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The initial dosage of Prednisone Tablets, USP may vary from 5 mg to 60 mg of prednisone per day depending on the specific disease entity being treated. (Dosage range is the same for prednisone and prednisolone). ADT ® (Alternate Day Therapy) ADT is a corticosteroid dosing regimen in which twice the usual daily dose of corticoid is administered every other morning. Other corticoids, including methylprednisolone, hydrocortisone, prednisone, and prednisolone, are considered to be short acting (producing adrenocortical suppression for 1 1/4 to 1 1/2 days following a single dose) and thus are recommended for alternate day therapy. 4) Because of the advantages of ADT, it may be desirable to try patients on this form of therapy who have been on daily corticoids for long periods of time (eg, patients with rheumatoid arthritis). 5) As indicated above, certain corticosteroids, because of their prolonged suppressive effect on adrenal activity, are not recommended for alternate day therapy (eg; dexamethasone and betamethasone). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The initial dosage of prednisone tablets may vary from 5 mg to 60 mg of prednisone per day depending on the specific disease entity being treated. If after a reasonable period of time there is a lack of satisfactory clinical response, prednisone tablets should be discontinued and the patient transferred to other appropriate therapy. Included in the situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process, the patient’s individual drug responsiveness, and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease entity under treatment; in this latter situation it may be necessary to increase the dosage of prednisone tablets for a period of time consistent with the patient’s condition. Other corticoids, including methylprednisolone, hydrocortisone, prednisone, and prednisolone, are considered to be short acting (producing adrenocortical suppression for 1&frac14; to 1&frac12; days following a single dose) and thus are recommended for alternate day therapy. ADT is a therapeutic technique primarily designed for patients in whom long-term pharmacologic corticoid therapy is anticipated. In less severe disease processes in which corticoid therapy is indicated, it may be possible to initiate treatment with ADT. Because of the advantages of ADT, it may be desirable to try patients on this form of therapy who have been on daily corticoids for long periods of time (e.g., patients with rheumatoid arthritis). In using ADT it is important, as in all therapeutic situations to individualize and tailor the therapy to each patient. Although many of the undesirable features of corticosteroid therapy can be minimized by ADT, as in any therapeutic situation, the physician must carefully weigh the benefit-risk ratio for each patient in whom corticoid therapy is being considered. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage of prednisone tablets should be individualized according to the severity of the disease and the response of the patient. For infants and children, the recommended dosage should be governed by the same considerations rather than strict adherence to the ratio indicated by age or body weight. Hormone therapy is an adjunct to, and not a replacement for, conventional therapy. Dosage should be decreased or discontinued gradually when the drug has been administered for more than a few days. The severity, prognosis, expected duration of the disease, and the reaction of the patient to medication are primary factors in determining dosage. Blood pressure, body weight, routine laboratory studies, including two hour postprandial blood glucose and serum potassium, and a chest X-ray should be obtained at regular intervals during prolonged therapy. In situations of less severity lower doses will generally suffice, while in selected patients’ higher initial doses may be required. If after a reasonable period of time there is a lack of satisfactory clinical response, prednisone should be discontinued, and the patient transferred to other appropriate therapy. Included in the situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process, the patient's individual drug responsiveness, and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease entity under treatment; in this latter situation it may be necessary to increase the dosage of prednisone for period of time consistent with the patient's condition. If after long-term therapy the drug is to be stopped, it recommended that it be withdrawn gradually rather than abruptly. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The initial dosage of prednisone may vary from 5 mg to 60 mg per day, depending on the specific disease entity being treated. If after a reasonable period of time there is a lack of satisfactory clinical response, prednisone should be discontinued and the patient transferred to other appropriate therapy . Other corticoids, including methylprednisolone, hydrocortisone, prednisone, and prednisolone, are considered to be short acting (producing adrenocortical suppression for 1 1 / 4 to 1 1 / 2 days following a single dose) and thus are recommended for alternate day therapy.
Warnings: WARNINGS In patients on corticosteroid therapy subjected to unusual stress, increased dosage of rapidly acting corticosteroids before, during, and after the stressful situation is indicated. Corticosteroids may mask some signs of infection, and new infections may appear during their use. There may be decreased resistance and inability to localize infection when corticosteroids are used. Prolonged use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts, glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves, and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to fungi or viruses. Usage in pregnancy Since adequate human reproduction studies have not been done with corticosteroids, the use of these drugs in pregnancy, nursing mothers or women of child-bearing potential requires that the possible benefits of the drug be weighed against the potential hazards to the mother and embryo or fetus. Infants born of mothers who have received substantial doses of corticosteroids during pregnancy, should be carefully observed for signs of hypoadrenalism. Average and large doses of hydrocortisone or cortisone can cause elevation of blood pressure, salt and water retention, and increased excretion of potassium. These effects are less likely to occur with the synthetic derivatives except when used in large doses. Dietary salt restriction and potassium supplementation may be necessary. All corticosteroids increase calcium excretion. While on corticosteroid therapy patients should not be vaccinated against smallpox. Other immunization procedures should not be undertaken in patients who are on corticosteroids, especially on high dose, because of possible hazards of neurological complications and a lack of antibody response. The use of prednisone in active tuberculosis should be restricted to those cases of fulminating or disseminated tuberculosis in which the corticosteroid is used for the management of the disease in conjunction with an appropriate anti-tuberculous regimen. If corticosteroids are indicated in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, close observation is necessary as reactivation of the disease may occur. During prolonged corticosteroid therapy, these patients should receive chemoprophylaxis. Children who are on immunosuppressant drugs are more susceptible to infections than healthy children. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in children on immunosuppressant corticosteroids. In such children, or in adults who have not had these diseases, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. If exposed, therapy with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) or pooled intravenous immunoglobin (IVIG), as appropriate, may be indicated. If chickenpox develops treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. WARNINGS General Rare instances of anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy (see ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic Reactions ). Increased dosage of rapidly acting corticosteroids is indicated in patients on corticosteroid therapy subjected to any unusual stress before, during and after the stressful situation. Cardio-Renal Average and large doses of hydrocortisone or cortisone can cause elevation of blood pressure, salt and water retention, and increased excretion of potassium. Literature reports suggest an apparent association between use of corticosteroids and left ventricular free wall rupture after a recent myocardial infarction; therefore, therapy with corticosteroids should be used with great caution in these patients. Endocrine Corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis suppression with the potential for corticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment. Adrenocortical insufficiency may result from too rapid withdrawal of corticosteroids and may be minimized by gradual reduction of dosage. This type of relative insufficiency may persist for up to 12 months after discontinuation of therapy; therefore, in any situation of stress occurring during that period, hormone therapy should be reinstituted. If the patient is receiving steroids already, dosage may have to be increased. Metabolic clearance of corticosteroids is decreased in hypothyroid patients and increased in hyperthyroid patients. Changes in thyroid status of the patient may necessitate adjustment in dosage. Immunosuppression and Increased Risk of Infection Corticosteroids, including prednisone tablets, suppress the immune system and increase the risk of infection with any pathogen, including viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan, or helminthic pathogens. Corticosteroids can: • Reduce resistance to new infections • Exacerbate existing infections • Increase the risk of disseminated infections • Increase the risk of reactivation or exacerbation of latent infections • Mask some signs of infection Corticosteroid-associated infections can be mild but can be severe and at times fatal. The rate of infectious complications increases with increasing corticosteroid dosages. Monitor for the development of infection and consider prednisone tablets withdrawal or dosage reduction as needed. Do not administer prednisone tablets by an intraarticular, intrabursal, intratendinous, or intralesional route in the presence of acute local infection. Tuberculosis If prednisone tablets is used to treat a condition in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, reactivation of tuberculosis may occur. Closely monitor such patients for reactivation. During prolonged prednisone tablets therapy, patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity should receive chemoprophylaxis. Varicella Zoster and Measles Viral Infections Varicella and measles can have a serious or even fatal course in non-immune patients taking corticosteroids, including prednisone tablets. In corticosteroid-treated patients who have not had these diseases or are non-immune, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure to varicella and measles: • If a prednisone tablets-treated patient is exposed to varicella, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin may be indicated. If varicella develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. • If a prednisone tablets-treated patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with immunoglobulin may be indicated. Hepatitis B Virus Reactivation Hepatitis B virus reactivation can occur in patients who are hepatitis B carriers treated with immunosuppressive dosages of corticosteroids, including prednisone tablets. Reactivation can also occur infrequently in corticosteroid-treated patients who appear to have resolved hepatitis B infection. Screen patients for hepatitis B infection before initiating immunosuppressive (e.g., prolonged) treatment with prednisone tablets. For patients who show evidence of hepatitis B infection, recommend consultation with physicians with expertise in managing hepatitis B regarding monitoring and consideration for hepatitis B antiviral therapy. Fungal Infections Corticosteroids, including prednisone tablets, may exacerbate systemic fungal infections; therefore, avoid prednisone tablets use in the presence of such infections unless prednisone tablets is needed to control drug reactions. For patients on chronic prednisone tablets therapy who develop systemic fungal infections, prednisone tablets withdrawal or dosage reduction is recommended. Amebiasis Corticosteroids, including prednisone tablets, may activate latent amebiasis. Therefore, it is recommended that latent amebiasis or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating prednisone tablets in patients who have spent time in the tropics or patients with unexplained diarrhea. Strongyloides Infestation Corticosteroids, including prednisone tablets, should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides (threadworm) infestation. In such patients, corticosteroid-induced immunosuppression may lead to Strongyloides hyperinfection and dissemination with widespread larval migration, often accompanied by severe enterocolitis and potentially fatal gramnegative septicemia. Cerebral Malaria Avoid corticosteroids, including prednisone tablets, in patients with cerebral malaria. Vaccination Administration of live or live, attenuated vaccines is contraindicated in patients receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids. Killed or inactivated vaccines may be administered. However, the response to such vaccines may be diminished and cannot be predicted. Indicated immunization procedures may be undertaken in patients receiving nonimmunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids as replacement therapy (e.g., for Addison’s disease). Ophthalmic Use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts, glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves, and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to bacteria, fungi or viruses. The use of oral corticosteroids is not recommended in the treatment of optic neuritis and may lead to an increase in the risk of new episodes. Corticosteroids should not be used in active ocular herpes simplex because of possible corneal perforation. Kaposi’s Sarcoma Kaposi’s sarcoma has been reported to occur in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy, most often for chronic conditions. Discontinuation of corticosteroids may result in clinical improvement of Kaposi’s sarcoma. WARNINGS General Rare instances of anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy (see ADVERSE REACTIONS : Allergic Reactions ). Infection General Patients who are on corticosteroids are more susceptible to infections than are healthy individuals. Infection with any pathogen (viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan or helminthic) in any location of the body may be associated with the use of corticosteroids alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents that affect cellular immunity, humoral immunity, or neutrophil function. 1 These infections may be mild, but may be severe and at times fatal. With increasing doses of corticosteroids, the rate of occurrence of infectious complications increases. 2 Corticosteroids may also mask some signs of current infection. Fungal Infections Corticosteroids may exacerbate systemic fungal infections and therefore should not be used in the presence of such infections unless they are needed to control life-threatening drug reactions. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure (see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions : Amphotericin B Injection and Potassium-Depleting Agents ). Special Pathogens Latent disease may be activated or there may be an exacerbation of intercurrent infections due to pathogens, including those caused by Amoeba, Candida, Cryptococcus, Mycobacterium, Nocardia, Pneumocystis, Toxoplasma . It is recommended that latent amebiasis or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating corticosteroid therapy in any patient who has spent time in the tropics or any patient with unexplained diarrhea. Similarly, corticosteroids should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides (threadworm) infestation. In such patients, corticosteroid-induced immunosuppression may lead to Strongyloides hyperinfection and dissemination with widespread larval migration, often accompanied by severe enterocolitis and potentially fatal gram-negative septicemia. Corticosteroids should not be used in cerebral malaria. Tuberculosis The use of prednisone in active tuberculosis should be restricted to those cases of fulminating or disseminated tuberculosis in which the corticosteroid is used for management of the disease in conjunction with an appropriate antituberculous regimen. However, the response to such vaccines may be diminished and cannot be predicted . Viral Infections Chickenpox and measles can have a more serious or even fatal course in pediatric and adult patients on corticosteroids. In pediatric and adult patients who have not had these diseases, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Immunosuppression and Increased Risk of Infection. Corticosteroids, including prednisone tablets, suppress the immune system and increase the risk of infection with any pathogen, including viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan, or helminthic pathogens. Corticosteroids can: Reduce resistance to new infections Exacerbate existing infections Increase the risk of disseminated infections Increase the risk of reactivation or exacerbation of latent infections Mask some signs of infection Corticosteroid-associated infections can be mild but can be severe and at times fatal. Tuberculosis If prednisone tablet is used to treat a condition in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, reactivation of tuberculosis may occur. In corticosteroid-treated patients who have not had these diseases or are non-immune, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure to varicella and measles: If a prednisone tablets-treated patient is exposed to varicella, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin may be indicated. If a prednisone tablets-treated patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with immunoglobulin may be indicated. Fungal Infections Corticosteroids, including prednisone tablets, may exacerbate systemic fungal infections; therefore, avoid prednisone tablets use in the presence of such infections unless prednisone tablet is needed to control drug reactions. Usage in pregnancy Since adequate human reproduction studies have not been done with corticosteroids, the use of these drugs in pregnancy, nursing mothers or women of childbearing potential requires that the possible benefits of the drug be weighed against the potential hazards to the mother and embryo or fetus. WARNINGS In patients on corticosteroid therapy subjected to any unusual stress, increased dosage of rapidly acting corticosteroids before, during, and after the stressful situation is indicated. Immunosuppression and Increased Risk of Infection Corticosteroids, including prednisone, suppress the immune system and increase the risk of infection with any pathogen, including viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan, or helminthic pathogens. Monitor for the development of infection and consider prednisone withdrawal or dosage reduction as needed. Tuberculosis If prednisone is used to treat a condition in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, reactivation of tuberculosis may occur. During prolonged prednisone therapy, patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity should receive chemoprophylaxis. Varicella Zoster and Measles Viral Infections Varicella and measles can have a serious or even fatal course in non-immune patients taking corticosteroids, including prednisone. In corticosteroid-treated patients who have not had these diseases or are non-immune, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure to varicella and measles: If a prednisone-treated patient is exposed to varicella, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin may be indicated. If a prednisone-treated patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with immunoglobulin may be indicated. Hepatitis B Virus Reactivation Hepatitis B virus reactivation can occur in patients who are hepatitis B carriers treated with immunosuppressive dosages of corticosteroids, including prednisone. Screen patients for hepatitis B infection before initiating immunosuppressive (e.g., prolonged) treatment with prednisone. Fungal Infections Corticosteroids, including prednisone, may exacerbate systemic fungal infections; therefore, avoid prednisone use in the presence of such infections unless prednisone is needed to control drug reactions. For patients on chronic prednisone therapy who develop systemic fungal infections, prednisone withdrawal or dosage reduction is recommended. Amebiasis Corticosteroids, including prednisone, may activate latent amebiasis. Therefore, it is recommended that latent amebiasis or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating prednisone in patients who have spent time in the tropics or patients with unexplained diarrhea. Strongyloides Infestation Corticosteroids, including prednisone, should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides (threadworm) infestation. Cerebral Malaria Avoid corticosteroids, including prednisone, in patients with cerebral malaria. Varicella Zoster and Measles Viral Infections Varicella and measles can have a serious or even fatal course in non-immune patients taking corticosteroids, including prednisone In corticosteroid-treated patients who have not had these diseases or are non-immune, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure to varicella and measles: If a prednisone-treated patient is exposed to varicella, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin may be indicated. WARNINGS General Rare instances of anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy (see : ). ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic Reactions Increased dosage of rapidly acting corticosteroids is indicated in patients on corticosteroid therapy subjected to any unusual stress before, during and after the stressful situation. These infections may be mild, but may be severe and at times fatal. Corticosteroids may also mask some signs of current infection. 1 2 Fungal Infections Corticosteroids may exacerbate systemic fungal infections and therefore should not be used in the presence of such infections unless they are needed to control life-threatening drug reactions. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure (see : : ). PRECAUTIONS Drug Interactions Amphotericin B Injection and Potassium-Depleting Agents Special Pathogens Latent disease may be activated or there may be an exacerbation of intercurrent infections due to pathogens, including those caused by . Amoeba, Candida, Cryptococcus, Mycobacterium, Nocardia, Pneumocystis, Toxoplasma It is recommended that latent amebiasis or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating corticosteroid therapy in any patient who has spent time in the tropics or any patient with unexplained diarrhea. Vaccination . Administration of live or live, attenuated vaccines is contraindicated in patients receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids. However, the response to such vaccines may be diminished and cannot be predicted Viral Infections Chickenpox and measles can have a more serious or even fatal course in pediatric and adult patients on corticosteroids. WARNINGS In patients on corticosteroid therapy subjected to unusual stress, increased dosage of rapidly acting corticosteroids before, during and after the stressful situation is indicated. Kaposi's Sarcoma Kaposi's sarcoma has been reported to occur in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy, most often for chronic conditions. Discontinuation of corticosteroids may result in clinical improvement of Kaposi's sarcoma. Usage in pregnancy: Since adequate human reproduction studies have not been done with corticosteroids, the use of these drugs in pregnancy, nursing mothers or women of childbearing potential requires that the possible benefits of the drug be weighed against the potential hazards to the mother and embryo or fetus.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Systemic fungal infections and known hypersensitivity to components. CONTRAINDICATIONS Prednisone tablets are contraindicated in systemic fungal infections and known hypersensitivity to components. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Prednisone delayed-release tablets are contraindicated in patients who have known hypersensitivity to prednisone or to any of the excipients. Rare instances of anaphylaxis have occurred in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy [ see Adverse Reactions (6) ]. Known hypersensitivity to prednisone or any excipients in the formulation ( 4 , 6 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Prednisone tablets are contraindicated in systemic fungal infections. CONTRAINDICATIONS Prednisone tablets and oral solutions are contraindicated in systemic fungal infections and known hypersensitivity to components.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Amphotericin B Injection and Potassium-Depleting Agents When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (e.g., amphotericin B, diuretics ), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. In addition, there have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions: Hepatic Enzyme Inducers, Inhibitors and Substrates ). Anticholinesterases Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents (e.g., neostigmine, pyridostigmine ) and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. If concomitant therapy must occur, it should take place under close supervision and the need for respiratory support should be anticipated. Anticoagulants, Oral Co-administration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular drugs Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Bupropion Since systemic steroids, as well as bupropion, can lower the seizure threshold, concurrent administration should be undertaken only with extreme caution; low initial dosing and small gradual increases should be employed. Cholestyramine Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis Glycosides Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, Including Oral Contraceptives Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Fluoroquinolones Post-marketing surveillance reports indicate that the risk of tendon rupture may be increased in patients receiving concomitant fluoroquinolones (e.g., ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin ) and corticosteroids, especially in the elderly. Tendon rupture can occur during or after treatment with quinolones. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers, Inhibitors and Substrates Drugs which induce cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP 3A4) enzyme activity (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin ) may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Drugs which inhibit CYP 3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir, indinavir, macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin ) have the potential to result in increased plasma concentrations of corticosteroids. Glucocorticoids are moderate inducers of CYP 3A4. Co-administration with other drugs that are metabolized by CYP 3A4 (e.g., indinavir, erythromycin ) may increase their clearance, resulting in decreased plasma concentration. Ketoconazole Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. In addition, ketoconazole alone can inhibit adrenal corticosteroid synthesis and may cause adrenal insufficiency during corticosteroid withdrawal. Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents (NSAIDS) Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents ) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids; this could lead to decreased salicylate serum levels or increase the risk of salicylate toxicity when corticosteroid is withdrawn. Phenytoin In post-marketing experience, there have been reports of both increases and decreases in phenytoin levels with dexamethasone co-administration, leading to alterations in seizure control. Phenytoin has been demonstrated to increase the hepatic metabolism of corticosteroids, resulting in a decreased therapeutic effect of the corticosteroid. Quetiapine Increased doses of quetiapine may be required to maintain control of symptoms of schizophrenia in patients receiving a glucocorticoid, a hepatic enzyme inducer. Skin Tests Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Thalidomide Co-administration with thalidomide should be employed cautiously, as toxic epidermal necrolysis has been reported with concomitant use. Vaccines Patients on corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS: Infection: Vaccination ). Amphotericin B Injection and Potassium-Depleting Agents When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (e.g., amphotericin B, diuretics ), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. Antibiotics Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions : Hepatic Enzyme Inducers, Inhibitors and Substrates ). Anticoagulants, Oral Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Fluoroquinolones Postmarketing surveillance reports indicate that the risk of tendon rupture may be increased in patients receiving concomitant fluoroquinolones (e.g., ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin ) and corticosteroids, especially in the elderly. Coadministration with other drugs that are metabolized by CYP 3A4 (e.g., indinavir, erythromycin ) may increase their clearance, resulting in decreased plasma concentration. Phenytoin In postmarketing experience, there have been reports of both increases and decreases in phenytoin levels with dexamethasone coadministration, leading to alterations in seizure control. Thalidomide Coadministration with thalidomide should be employed cautiously, as toxic epidermal necrolysis has been reported with concomitant use. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS : Infection : Vaccination ). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Anticoagulant agents: May enhance or diminish anticoagulant effects. ( 7.4 ) Antidiabetic agents: May increase blood glucose concentrations. Dose adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. ( 7.5 ) CYP 3A4 inducers and inhibitors: May, respectively, increase or decrease clearance of corticosteroids, necessitating dose adjustment. ( 7.7 , 7.8 ) Cyclosporine: Increase in activity of both, cyclosporine and corticosteroid when administered concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with concurrent use. ( 7.10 ) NSAIDs including aspirin and salicylates: Increased risk of gastrointestinal side effects. ( 7.13 ) 7.1 Aminoglutethimide Aminoglutethimide may lead to loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. 7.2 Amphotericin B Injection There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of Amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure [see Drug Interactions (7.14) ] . 7.3 Anticholinesterase Agents Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. 7.4 Anticoagulant Agents Co-administration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. 7.5 Antidiabetic Agents Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. 7.6 Antitubercular Drugs Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. 7.7 CYP 3A4 Inducers (e.g., Barbiturates, Phenytoin, Carbamazepine, and Rifampin) Drugs such as barbiturates, phenytoin, ephedrine, and rifampin, which induce hepatic microsomal drug metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. 7.8 CYP 3A4 Inhibitors (e.g., Ketoconazole, Macrolide Antibiotics) Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60% leading to increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. 7.9 Cholestyramine Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. 7.10 Cyclosporine Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. 7.11 Digitalis Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. 7.12 Estrogens, Including Oral Contraceptives Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. 7.13 Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Aspirin and Salicylates Concomitant use of aspirin or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. 7.14 Potassium-Depleting Agents (e.g., Diuretics, Amphotericin B) When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents, patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. 7.15 Skin Tests Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. 7.16 Toxoids and Live or Attenuated Vaccines Patients on corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Drug Interactions The pharmacokinetic interactions listed below are potentially clinically important. Drugs that induce hepatic enzymes such as phenobarbital, phenytoin and rifampin may increase the clearance of corticosteroids and may require increases in corticosteroid dose to achieve the desired response. Drugs such as troleandomycin and ketoconazole may inhibit the metabolism of corticosteroids and thus decrease their clearance. Therefore, the dose of corticosteroid should be titrated to avoid steroid toxicity. Corticosteroids may increase the clearance of chronic high dose aspirin. This could lead to decreased salicylate serum levels or increase the risk of salicylate toxicity when corticosteroid is withdrawn. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in patients suffering from hypoprothrombinemia. The effect of corticosteroids on oral anticoagulants is variable. There are reports of enhanced as well as diminished effects of anticoagulants when given concurrently with corticosteroids. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Drug Interactions Amphotericin B Injection and Potassium-Depleting Agents When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (e.g., ), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. amphotericin B, diuretics Antibiotics Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see : : ). PRECAUTIONS Drug Interactions Hepatic Enzyme Inducers, Inhibitors and Substrates Anticholinesterases Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents (e.g., ) and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. neostigmine, pyridostigmine Anticoagulants, Oral Co-administration of corticosteroids and usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. warfarin Antidiabetics Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular drugs Serum concentrations of may be decreased. isoniazid Bupropion Since systemic steroids, as well as bupropion, can lower the seizure threshold, concurrent administration should be undertaken only with extreme caution; low initial dosing and small gradual increases should be employed. Fluoroquinolones Post-marketing surveillance reports indicate that the risk of tendon rupture may be increased in patients receiving concomitant fluoroquinolones (e.g., ) and corticosteroids, especially in the elderly. ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin Hepatic Enzyme Inducers, Inhibitors and Substrates Drugs which cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP 3A4) enzyme activity (e.g., ) may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Drugs which CYP 3A4 (e.g., ) have the potential to result in increased plasma concentrations of corticosteroids. Co-administration with other drugs that are metabolized by CYP 3A4 (e.g., ) may increase their clearance, resulting in decreased plasma concentration. induce barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin inhibit ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir, indinavir, macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin indinavir, erythromycin Ketoconazole Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents (NSAIDS) Concomitant use of (or other ) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. aspirin nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents Phenytoin In post-marketing experience, there have been reports of both increases and decreases in phenytoin levels with dexamethasone co-administration, leading to alterations in seizure control. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see : : ). WARNINGS Infection Vaccination

=== METFORMIN HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ZITUVIMET is a combination of sitagliptin, a dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor, and metformin hydrochloride (HCl), a biguanide, indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use: ZITUVIMET is not recommended in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus. ( 1 ) ZITUVIMET has not been studied in patients with a history of pancreatitis. ( 1 ) ZITUVIMET is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Limitations of Use ZITUVIMET is not recommended in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus. ZITUVIMET has not been studied in patients with a history of pancreatitis. It is unknown whether patients with a history of pancreatitis are at increased risk for the development of pancreatitis while using ZITUVIMET. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Metformin hydrochloride tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients 10 years of age and older with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Metformin hydrochloride tablets are biguanide indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients 10 years of age and older with type 2 diabetes mellitus. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metformin hydrochloride tablets, USP are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients 10 years of age and older with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Metformin hydrochloride tablets, USP are a biguanide indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients 10 years of age and older with type 2 diabetes mellitus. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metformin hydrochloride tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients 10 years of age and older with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Metformin hydrochloride tablets is a biguanide indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients 10 years of age and older with type 2 diabetes mellitus. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets USP are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. (1) 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Metformin hydrochloride tablets is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients 10 years of age and older with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Metformin is a biguanide indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients 10 years of age and older with type 2 diabetes mellitus. (1) Metformin is a biguanide indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. INDICATIONS & USAGE Metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets, USP are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE RIOMET is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients 10 years of age and older with type 2 diabetes mellitus. RIOMET is a biguanide indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients 10 years of age and older with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take ZITUVIMET orally twice daily with meals. ( 2.1 ) Individualize the dosage of ZITUVIMET on the basis of the patient's current regimen, effectiveness, and tolerability. ( 2.1 ) The maximum recommended daily dose is 100 mg of sitagliptin and 2,000 mg of metformin HCl. ( 2.1 ) The recommended starting dose in patients not currently treated with metformin is 50 mg sitagliptin and 500 mg metformin HCl twice daily, with gradual dose escalation recommended to reduce gastrointestinal side effects associated with metformin. ( 2.1 ) The starting dose in patients already treated with metformin should provide sitagliptin dosed as 50 mg twice daily (100 mg total daily dose) and the dose of metformin already being taken. For patients taking metformin HCl 850 mg twice daily, the recommended starting dose of ZITUVIMET is 50 mg sitagliptin and 1,000 mg metformin HCl twice daily. ( 2.1 ) Prior to initiation, assess renal function with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) ( 2.2 ) ○ Do not use in patients with eGFR below 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ○ ZITUVIMET is not recommended in patients with eGFR between 30 and less than 45 mL/min/1.73 m 2 . ZITUVIMET may need to be discontinued at time of, or prior to, iodinated contrast imaging procedures. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage Take ZITUVIMET orally twice daily with meals. Individualize the dosage of ZITUVIMET on the basis of the patient's current regimen, effectiveness, and tolerability. The maximum recommended daily dose is 100 mg of sitagliptin and 2,000 mg of metformin hydrochloride (HCl). Do not split or divide ZITUVIMET tablets. The recommended starting dose in patients not currently treated with metformin is 50 mg sitagliptin and 500 mg metformin HCl twice daily, with gradual dose escalation recommended to reduce gastrointestinal side effects associated with metformin. The starting dose in patients already treated with metformin should provide sitagliptin dosed as 50 mg twice daily (100 mg total daily dose) and the dose of metformin already being taken. 2.2 Recommendations for Use in Renal Impairment Assess renal function prior to initiation of ZITUVIMET and periodically thereafter. ZITUVIMET is contraindicated in patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) below 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. ZITUVIMET is not recommended in patients with an eGFR between 30 and less than 45 mL/min/1.73 m 2 because these patients require a lower dosage of sitagliptin than what is available in the fixed combination ZITUVIMET product. 2.3 Discontinuation for Iodinated Contrast Imaging Procedures Discontinue ZITUVIMET at the time of, or prior to, an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ; in patients with a history of liver disease, alcoholism, or heart failure; or in patients who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Re-evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure; restart ZITUVIMET if renal function is stable [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Adult Dosage for metformin hydrochloride tablets: Starting dose: 500 mg orally twice a day or 850 mg once a day, with meals ( 2.1 ) Increase the dose in increments of 500 mg weekly or 850 mg every 2 weeks, up to a maximum dose of 2550 mg per day, given in divided doses ( 2.1 ) Doses above 2000 mg may be better tolerated given 3 times a day with meals ( 2.1 ) Pediatric Dosage for metformin hydrochloride tablets: Starting dose: 500 mg orally twice a day, with meals ( 2.2 ) Increase dosage in increments of 500 mg weekly up to a maximum of 2000 mg per day, given in divided doses twice daily ( 2.2 ) Renal Impairment: Prior to initiation, assess renal function with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) ( 2.3 ) Do not use in patients with eGFR below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 ( 2.3 ) Initiation is not recommended in patients with eGFR between 30 to 45 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 ( 2.3 ) Assess risk/benefit of continuing if eGFR falls below 45 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 ( 2.3 ) Discontinue if eGFR falls below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Adult Dosage Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets The recommended starting dose of metformin hydrochloride tablets are 500 mg orally twice a day or 850 mg once a day, given with meals. Increase the dose in increments of 500 mg weekly or 850 mg every 2 weeks on the basis of glycemic control and tolerability, up to a maximum dose of 2550 mg per day, given in divided doses. Doses above 2000 mg may be better tolerated given 3 times a day with meals. 2.2 Pediatric Dosage for metformin hydrochloride tablets The recommended starting dose of metformin hydrochloride tablets for pediatric patients 10 years of age and older is 500 mg orally twice a day, given with meals. Increase dosage in increments of 500 mg weekly on the basis of glycemic control and tolerability, up to a maximum of 2000 mg per day, given in divided doses twice daily. 2.3 Recommendations for Use in Renal Impairment Assess renal function prior to initiation of metformin hydrochloride tablets and periodically thereafter. Metformin hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 . Initiation of metformin hydrochloride tablets in patients with an eGFR between 30 to 45 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 is not recommended. In patients taking metformin hydrochloride tablets whose eGFR later falls below 45 mL/min/1.73 m 2 , assess the benefit risk of continuing therapy. Discontinue metformin hydrochloride tablets if the patient’s eGFR later falls below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 2.4 Discontinuation for Iodinated Contrast Imaging Procedures Discontinue metformin hydrochloride tablets at the time of, or prior to, an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ; in patients with a history of liver disease, alcoholism, or heart failure; or in patients who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Re-evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure; restart metformin hydrochloride tablets if renal function is stable. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult Dosage for Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets: Starting dose: 500 mg orally twice a day or 850 mg once a day, with meals ( 2.1 ) Increase the dose in increments of 500 mg weekly or 850 mg every 2 weeks, up to a maximum dose of 2,550 mg per day, given in divided doses ( 2.1 ) Doses above 2,000 mg may be better tolerated given 3 times a day with meals ( 2.1 ) Pediatric Dosage for Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets : Starting dose: 500 mg orally twice a day, with meals ( 2.2 ) Increase dosage in increments of 500 mg weekly up to a maximum of 2,000 mg per day, given in divided doses twice daily ( 2.2 ) Renal Impairment: Prior to initiation, assess renal function with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) ( 2.3 ) Do not use in patients with eGFR below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 ( 2.3 ) Initiation is not recommended in patients with eGFR between 30 to 45 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 ( 2.3 ) Assess risk/benefit of continuing if eGFR falls below 45 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 ( 2.3 ) Discontinue if eGFR falls below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 ( 2.3 ) Discontinuation for Iodinated Contrast Imaging Procedures: Metformin hydrochloride tablets may need to be discontinued at time of, or prior to, iodinated contrast imaging procedures ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Adult Dosage Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets The recommended starting dose of metformin hydrochloride tablets is 500 mg orally twice a day or 850 mg once a day, given with meals. Increase the dose in increments of 500 mg weekly or 850 mg every 2 weeks on the basis of glycemic control and tolerability, up to a maximum dose of 2,550 mg per day, given in divided doses. Doses above 2,000 mg may be better tolerated given 3 times a day with meals. Increase dosage in increments of 500 mg weekly on the basis of glycemic control and tolerability, up to a maximum of 2,000 mg per day, given in divided doses twice daily. 2.3 Recommendations for Use in Renal Impairment • Assess renal function prior to initiation of metformin hydrochloride tablets and periodically thereafter. • Metformin hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 . • Initiation of metformin hydrochloride tablets in patients with an eGFR between 30 to 45 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 is not recommended. • In patients taking metformin hydrochloride tablets whose eGFR later falls below 45 mL/min/1.73 m 2 , assess the benefit risk of continuing therapy. • Discontinue metformin hydrochloride tablets if the patient’s eGFR later falls below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult Dosage for Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets : Starting dose: 500 mg orally twice a day or 850 mg once a day, with meals. ( 2.1 ) Increase the dose in increments of 500 mg weekly or 850 mg every 2 weeks, up to a maximum dose of 2,550 mg per day, given in divided doses. ( 2.1 ) Doses above 2,000 mg may be better tolerated given 3 times a day with meals. ( 2.1 ) Pediatric Dosage for Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets : Starting dose: 500 mg orally twice a day, with meals. ( 2.2 ) Increase dosage in increments of 500 mg weekly up to a maximum of 2,000 mg per day, given in divided doses twice daily. ( 2.2 ) Renal Impairment: Prior to initiation, assess renal function with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). ( 2.3 ) Do not use in patients with eGFR below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 ( 2.3 ) Initiation is not recommended in patients with eGFR between 30 to 45 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 ( 2.3 ) Assess risk/benefit of continuing if eGFR falls below 45 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 ( 2.3 ) Discontinue if eGFR falls below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 ( 2.3 ) Discontinuation for Iodinated Contrast Imaging Procedures: Metformin hydrochloride tablets may need to be discontinued at time of, or prior to, iodinated contrast imaging procedures. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Adult Dosage The recommended starting dose of metformin hydrochloride tablets is 500 mg orally twice a day or 850 mg once a day, given with meals. Discontinue metformin hydrochloride tablets if the patient’s eGFR later falls below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION General Considerations Dosage of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets must be individualized on the basis of both effectiveness and tolerance while not exceeding the maximum recommended daily dose of 20 mg glipizide/2000 mg metformin. Glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets should be given with meals and should be initiated at a low dose, with gradual dose escalation as described below, in order to avoid hypoglycemia (largely due to glipizide), reduce GI side effects (largely due to metformin), and permit determination of the minimum effective dose for adequate control of blood glucose for the individual patient. With initial treatment and during dose titration, appropriate blood glucose monitoring should be used to determine the therapeutic response to glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets and to identify the minimum effective dose for the patient. Thereafter, HbA 1c should be measured at intervals of approximately 3 months to assess the effectiveness of therapy. The therapeutic goal in all patients with type 2 diabetes is to decrease FPG, PPG, and HbA 1c to normal or as near normal as possible. Ideally, the response to therapy should be evaluated using HbA 1c , which is a better indicator of long-term glycemic control than FPG alone. No studies have been performed specifically examining the safety and efficacy of switching to glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablet therapy in patients taking concomitant glipizide (or other sulfonylurea) plus metformin. Changes in glycemic control may occur in such patients, with either hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia possible. Any change in therapy of type 2 diabetes should be undertaken with care and appropriate monitoring. When colesevelam is coadministered with glipizide ER, maximum plasma concentration and total exposure to glipizide is reduced. Therefore, glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Glipizide and Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets in Patients with Inadequate Glycemic Control on Diet and Exercise Alone For patients with type 2 diabetes whose hyperglycemia cannot be satisfactorily managed with diet and exercise alone, the recommended starting dose of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets is 2.5 mg/250 mg once a day with a meal. For patients whose FPG is 280 mg/dL to 320 mg/dL a starting dose of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets, 2.5 mg/500 mg twice daily should be considered. The efficacy of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets in patients whose FPG exceeds 320 mg/dL has not been established. Dosage increases to achieve adequate glycemic control should be made in increments of 1 tablet per day every 2 weeks up to maximum of 10 mg/1000 mg or 10 mg/2000 mg glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets per day given in divided doses. In clinical trials of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets as initial therapy, there was no experience with total daily doses > 10 mg/2000 mg per day. Glipizide and Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets in Patients with Inadequate Glycemic Control on a Sulfonylurea and/or Metformin For patients not adequately controlled on either glipizide (or another sulfonylurea) or metformin alone, the recommended starting dose of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets is 2.5 mg/500 mg or 5 mg/500 mg twice daily with the morning and evening meals. In order to avoid hypoglycemia, the starting dose of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets should not exceed the daily doses of glipizide or metformin already being taken. The daily dose should be titrated in increments of no more than 5 mg/500 mg up to the minimum effective dose to achieve adequate control of blood glucose or to a maximum dose of 20 mg/2000 mg per day. Patients previously treated with combination therapy of glipizide (or another sulfonylurea) plus metformin may be switched to glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets, 2.5 mg/500 mg or 5 mg/500 mg; the starting dose should not exceed the daily dose of glipizide (or equivalent dose of another sulfonylurea) and metformin already being taken. The decision to switch to the nearest equivalent dose or to titrate should be based on clinical judgment. Patients should be monitored closely for signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia following such a switch and the dose of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets should be titrated as described above to achieve adequate control of blood glucose. Recommendations for Use in Renal Impairment Assess renal function prior to initiation of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets and periodically thereafter. Glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 . Initiation of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 45 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 is not recommended. In patients taking glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets whose eGFR later falls below 45 mL/min/1.73 m 2 , assess the benefit risk of continuing therapy. Discontinue glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets if the patient’s eGFR later falls below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 . (See WARNINGS .) Discontinuation for Iodinated Contrast Imaging Procedure Discontinue glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets at the time of, or prior to, an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ; in patients with a history of liver disease, alcoholism or heart failure; or in patients who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Re-evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure; restart glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets if renal function is stable. Specific Patient Populations Glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets are not recommended for use during pregnancy or for use in pediatric patients. The initial and maintenance dosing of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets should be conservative in patients with advanced age, due to the potential for decreased renal function in this population. Any dosage adjustment requires a careful assessment of renal function. Generally, elderly, debilitated, and malnourished patients should not be titrated to the maximum dose of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets to avoid the risk of hypoglycemia. Monitoring of renal function is necessary to aid in prevention of metformin-associated lactic acidosis, particularly in the elderly. (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult Dosage for Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets: Starting dose: 500 mg orally twice a day or 850 mg once a day, with meals (2.1) Increase the dose in increments of 500 mg weekly or 850 mg every 2 weeks, up to a maximum dose of 2550 mg per day, given in divided doses (2.1) Doses above 2000 mg may be better tolerated given 3 times a day with meals (2.1) Pediatric Dosage for Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets: Starting dose: 500 mg orally twice a day, with meals (2.2) Increase dosage in increments of 500 mg weekly up to a maximum of 2000 mg per day, given in divided doses twice daily (2.2) Renal Impairment: Prior to initiation, assess renal function with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) (2.3) Do not use in patients with eGFR below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 (2.3) Initiation is not recommended in patients with eGFR between 30 to 45 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 (2.3) Assess risk/benefit of continuing if eGFR falls below 45 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 (2.3) Discontinue if eGFR falls below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 (2.3) Discontinuation for Iodinated Contrast Imaging Procedures: Metformin hydrochloride tablets may need to be discontinued at time of, or prior to, iodinated contrast imaging procedures (2.4) 2.1 Adult Dosage The recommended starting dose of metformin hydrochloride tablets is 500 mg orally twice a day or 850 mg once a day, given with meals. Discontinue metformin hydrochloride tablets if the patient’s eGFR later falls below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Adult Dosage for Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets: Starting dose: 500 mg orally twice a day or 850 mg once a day, with meals (2.1) Increase the dose in increments of 500 mg weekly or 850 mg every 2 weeks, up to a maximum dose of 2550 mg per day, given in divided doses (2.1) Doses above 2000 mg may be better tolerated given 3 times a day with meals (2.1) Adult Dosage for Metformin Hydrochloride Extented-Release Tablets: Swallow metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets whole and never crush, cut or chew (2.1) Starting dose: 500 mg orally once daily with the evening meal (2.1) Increase the dose in increments of 500 mg weekly, up to a maximum of 2000 mg once daily with the evening meal (2.1) Patients receiving metformin hydrochloride tablets may be switched to metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets once daily at the same total daily dose, up to 2000 mg once daily (2.1) Pediatric Dosage for Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets: Starting dose: 500 mg orally twice a day, with meals (2.2) Increase dosage in increments of 500 mg weekly up to a maximum of 2000 mg per day, given in divided doses twice daily (2.2) Renal Impairment: • Prior to initiation, assess renal function with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) (2.3) Do not use in patients with eGFR below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 (2.3) Initiation is not recommended in patients with eGFR between 30-45 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 (2.3) Asses risk/benefit of continuing if eGFR falls below 45 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 (2.3) Discontinue if eGFR falls below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 (2.3) Discontinuation for Iodinated Contrast Imaging Procedures: • Metformin hydrochloride tablets and metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets may need to be discontinued at time of, or prior to, iodinated contrast imaging procedures (2.4) 2.1 Adult Dosage Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets The recommended starting dose of metformin hydrochloride tablets is 500 mg orally twice a day or 850 mg once a day, given with meals. Metformin Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Swallow metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets whole and never crush, cut or chew. The recommended starting dose of metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets is 500 mg orally once daily with the evening meal. Increase the dose in increments of 500 mg weekly on the basis of glycemic control and tolerability, up to a maximum of 2000 mg once daily with the evening meal. If glycemic control is not achieved with metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets 2000 mg once daily, consider a trial of metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets 1000 mg twice daily. If higher doses are required, switch to metformin hydrochloride tablets at total daily doses up to 2550 mg administered in divided daily doses, as described above. Patients receiving metformin hydrochloride tablets may be switched to metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets once daily at the same total daily dose, up to 2000 mg once daily. 2.3 Recommendations for Use in Renal Impairment Assess renal function prior to initiation of metformin hydrochloride tablets and metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets and periodically thereafter. Metformin hydrochloride tablets and metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets is contraindicated in patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 . Initiation of metformin hydrochloride tablets and metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets in patients with an eGFR between 30 – 45 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 is not recommended. In patients taking metformin hydrochloride tablets and metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets whose eGFR later falls below 45 mL/min/1.73 m 2 , assess the benefit risk of continuing therapy. Discontinue metformin hydrochloride tablets and metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets if the patient’s eGFR later falls below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. 2.4 Discontinuation for Iodinated Contrast Imaging Procedures Discontinue metformin hydrochloride tablets and metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets at the time of, or prior to, an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ; in patients with a history of liver disease, alcoholism, or heart failure; or in patients who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Re-evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure; restart metformin hydrochloride tablets and metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets if renal function is stable. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION There is no fixed dosage regimen for the management of hyperglycemia in patients with type 2 diabetes with metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets, USP or any other pharmacologic agent. Dosage of metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets, USP must be individualized on the basis of both effectiveness and tolerance, while not exceeding the maximum recommended daily doses. The maximum recommended daily dose of metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets, USP in adults is 2000 mg. Metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets, USP should generally be given once daily with the evening meal. Metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets, USP should be started at a low dose, with gradual dose escalation, both to reduce gastrointestinal side effects and to permit identification of the minimum dose required for adequate glycemic control of the patient. During treatment initiation and dose titration (see Recommended Dosing Schedule), fasting plasma glucose should be used to determine the therapeutic response to metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets, USP and identify the minimum effective dose for the patient. Thereafter, glycosylated hemoglobin should be measured at intervals of approximately 3 months. The therapeutic goal should be to decrease both fasting plasma glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin levels to normal or near normal by using the lowest effective dose of metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets, USP either when used as monotherapy or in combination with sulfonylurea or insulin. Monitoring of blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin will also permit detection of primary failure, i.e., inadequate lowering of blood glucose at the maximum recommended dose of medication, and secondary failure, i.e., loss of an adequate blood glucose lowering response after an initial period of effectiveness. Short-term administration of metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets, USP may be sufficient during periods of transient loss of control in patients usually well-controlled on diet alone. Metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets, USP must be swallowed whole and never crushed or chewed. Occasionally, the inactive ingredients of metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets, USP will be eliminated in the feces as a soft, hydrated mass. (See Patient Information printed below.) Recommended Dosing Schedule Adults In general, clinically significant responses are not seen at doses below 1500 mg per day. However, a lower recommended starting dose and gradually increased dosage is advised to minimize gastrointestinal symptoms. The usual starting dose of metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets, USP is 500 mg once daily with the evening meal. Dosage increases should be made in increments of 500 mg weekly, up to a maximum of 2000 mg once daily with the evening meal. If glycemic control is not achieved on metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets, USP 2000 mg once daily, a trial of metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets, USP 1000 mg twice daily should be considered. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Clinical Studies .) In a randomized trial, patients currently treated with metformin hydrochloride tablets were switched to metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets. Results of this trial suggest that patients receiving metformin hydrochloride tablets treatment may be safely switched to metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets once daily at the same total daily dose, up to 2000 mg once daily. Following a switch from metformin hydrochloride tablets to metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets, glycemic control should be closely monitored and dosage adjustments made accordingly (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Clinical Studies ). Pediatrics Safety and effectiveness of metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets, USP in pediatric patients have not been established. Recommendations for Use in Renal Impairment Assess renal function prior to initiation of metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets and periodically thereafter. Metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2. Initiation of metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets in patients with an eGFR between 30 to 45 mL/minute/1.73 m2 is not recommended. In patients taking metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets whose eGFR later falls below 45 mL/min/1.73 m2, assess the benefit risk of continuing therapy. Discontinue metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets if the patients eGFR later falls below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m2 (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ). Discontinuation for Iodinated Contrast Imaging Procedures Discontinue metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets at the time of, or prior to, an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 60 mL/min/1.73 m2; in patients with a history of liver disease, alcoholism, or heart failure; or in patients who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Re-evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure; restart metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets if renal function is stable. Concomitant Metformin Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets, USP and Oral Sulfonylurea Therapy in Adult Patients If patients have not responded to 4 weeks of the maximum dose of metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets monotherapy, consideration should be given to gradual addition of an oral sulfonylurea while continuing metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets, USP at the maximum dose, even if prior primary or secondary failure to a sulfonylurea has occurred. Clinical and pharmacokinetic drug- drug interaction data are currently available only for metformin plus glyburide (glibenclamide). With concomitant metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets and sulfonylurea therapy, the desired control of blood glucose may be obtained by adjusting the dose of each drug. In a clinical trial of patients with type 2 diabetes and prior failure on glyburide, patients started on metformin hydrochloride tablets 500 mg and glyburide 20 mg were titrated to 1000/20 mg, 1500/20 mg, 2000/20 mg or 2500/20 mg of metformin hydrochloride tablets and glyburide, respectively, to reach the goal of glycemic control as measured by FPG, HbA1c and plasma glucose response (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Clinical Studies ). However, attempts should be made to identify the minimum effective dose of each drug to achieve this goal. With concomitant metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets, USP and sulfonylurea therapy, the risk of hypoglycemia associated with sulfonylurea therapy continues and may be increased. Appropriate precautions should be taken. (See Package Insert of the respective sulfonylurea.) If patients have not satisfactorily responded to 1 to 3 months of concomitant therapy with the maximum dose of metformin hydrochloride extended-release tabletsand the maximum dose of an oral sulfonylurea, consider therapeutic alternatives including switching to insulin with or without metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets. Concomitant Metformin Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets and Insulin Therapy in Adult Patients The current insulin dose should be continued upon initiation of metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets therapy. Metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets therapy should be initiated at 500 mg once daily in patients on insulin therapy. For patients not responding adequately, the dose of metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets should be increased by 500 mg after approximately 1 week and by 500 mg every week thereafter until adequate glycemic control is achieved. The maximum recommended daily dose is 2000 mg for metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets. It is recommended that the insulin dose be decreased by 10% to 25% when fasting plasma glucose concentrations decrease to less than 120 mg/dL in patients receiving concomitant insulin and metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets, USP. Further adjustment should be individualized based on glucose-lowering response. Specific Patient Populations Metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets is not recommended for use in pregnancy. Metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets, USP is not recommended in pediatric patients (below the age of 17 years). The initial and maintenance dosing of metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets should be conservative in patients with advanced age, due to the potential for decreased renal function in this population. Any dosage adjustment should be based on a careful assessment of renal function. Generally, elderly, debilitated, and malnourished patients should not be titrated to the maximum dose of metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets. Monitoring of renal function is necessary to aid in prevention of lactic acidosis, particularly in the elderly. (See WARNINGS .) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult Dosage for RIOMET : • Starting dose: 500 mg (5 mL) orally twice a day or 850 mg (8.5 mL) once a day, with meals (2.1) • Increase the dose in increments of 500 mg (5 mL) weekly or 850 mg (8.5 mL) every 2 weeks, up to a maximum dose of 2,550 mg (25.5 mL) per day, given in divided doses (2.1) • Doses above 2,000 mg (20 mL) may be better tolerated given in divided doses 3 times a day with meals (2.1) Pediatric Dosage for RIOMET : • Starting dose: 500 mg (5 mL) orally twice a day, with meals (2.2) • Increase dosage in increments of 500 mg (5 mL) weekly up to a maximum of 2,000 mg (20 mL) per day, given in divided doses twice daily (2.2) Renal Impairment : • Prior to initiation, assess renal function with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) (2.3) • Do not use in patients with eGFR below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 (2.3) • Initiation is not recommended in patients with eGFR between 30 to 45 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 (2.3) • Assess risk/benefit of continuing RIOMET if eGFR falls below 45 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 (2.3) • Discontinue if eGFR falls below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 (2.3) Discontinuation for Iodinated Contrast Imaging Procedures: • RIOMET may need to be discontinued at time of, or prior to, iodinated contrast imaging procedures (2.4) 2.1 Adult Dosage • Measure the RIOMET dose in the RIOMET specific dosing cup. • The recommended starting dose of RIOMET is 500 mg (5 mL) orally twice a day or 850 mg (8.5 mL) once a day, given with meals. • Increase the dose in increments of 500 mg (5 mL) weekly or 850 mg (8.5 mL) every 2 weeks on the basis of glycemic control and tolerability, up to a maximum dose of 2,550 mg (25.5 mL) per day, given in divided doses. • Doses above 2,000 mg (20 mL) may be better tolerated given in divided doses 3 times a day with meals. 2.2 Pediatric Dosage • Measure the RIOMET dose in the RIOMET specific dosing cup. • The recommended starting dose of RIOMET for pediatric patients 10 years of age and older is 500 mg (5 mL) orally twice a day, given with meals. • Increase dosage in increments of 500 mg (5 mL) weekly on the basis of glycemic control and tolerability, up to a maximum of 2,000 mg (20 mL) per day, given in divided doses twice daily. 2.3 Recommendations for Use in Renal Impairment • Assess renal function prior to initiation of RIOMET and periodically thereafter. • RIOMET is contraindicated in patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 . • Initiation of RIOMET in patients with an eGFR between 30 to 45 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 is not recommended. • In patients taking RIOMET whose eGFR later falls below 45 mL/min/1.73 m 2 , assess the benefit risk of continuing therapy. • Discontinue RIOMET if the patient’s eGFR later falls below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 2.4 Discontinuation for Iodinated Contrast Imaging Procedures • Discontinue RIOMET at the time of, or prior to, an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ; in patients with a history of liver disease, alcoholism, or heart failure; or in patients who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Re-evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure; restart RIOMET if renal function is stable.
Warnings: WARNINGS WARNING: LACTIC ACIDOSIS Postmarketing cases of metformin-associated lactic acidosis have resulted in death, hypothermia, hypotension, and resistant bradyarrhythmias. The onset of metformin-associated lactic acidosis is often subtle, accompanied only by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise, myalgias, respiratory distress, somnolence, and abdominal pain. Metformin-associated lactic acidosis was characterized by elevated blood lactate levels (> 5 mmol/Liter), anion gap acidosis (without evidence of ketonuria or ketonemia), an increased lactate/pyruvate ratio; and metformin plasma levels generally > 5 mcg/mL [see PRECAUTIONS]. Risk factors for metformin-associated lactic acidosis include renal impairment, concomitant use of certain drugs (e.g., carbonic anhydrase inhibitors such as topiramate), age 65 years old or greater, having a radiological study with contrast, surgery and other procedures, hypoxic states (e.g., acute congestive heart failure), excessive alcohol intake, and hepatic impairment. Steps to reduce the risk of and manage metformin-associated lactic acidosis in these high risk groups are provided [see PRECAUTIONS]. If metformin-associated lactic acidosis is suspected, immediately discontinue glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets and institute general supportive measures in a hospital setting. Prompt hemodialysis is recommended [see PRECAUTIONS]. SPECIAL WARNING ON INCREASED RISK OF CARDIOVASCULAR MORTALITY The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to 1 of 4 treatment groups ( Diabetes 19 (Suppl. 2):747-830, 1970). UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2½ times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and benefits of glipizide and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only 1 drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. WARNINGS LACTIC ACIDOSIS: Postmarketing cases of metformin-associated lactic acidosis have resulted in death, hypothermia, hypotension and resistant bradyarrhythmias. The onset of metformin associated lactic acidosis is often subtle, accompanied only by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise, myalgias, respiratory distress, somnolence, and abdominal pain. Metformin associated lactic acidosis was characterized by elevated blood lactate levels(>5 mmol/Liter), anion gap acidosis (without evidenceof ketonuria or ketonemia), an increased lactate/pyruvate ratio; and metformin plasma levels generally >5 mcg/mL (see PRECAUTIONS ). Risk factors for metformin associated lactic acidosis include renal impairment, concamitent use of certain drugs (e.g carbonic anhydrase inhibitors such as topiramate), age 65 years old or greater, having a radiological study with contrast, surgery and other procedures, hypoxic states (e.g., acute congestive heart failure), excessive alcohol intake, and hepatic impairment. Steps to reduce the risk of and manage metformin-associated lactic acidosis in these high risk groups are provided (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , CONTRAINDICATIONS , AND PRECAUTIONS ). If metformin associated lactic acidosis is suspected, immediately discontinue metformin hydrochloride extend release tablets and institute general supportive measures in a hospital setting. Prompt hemodialysis is recommended (see PRECAUTIONS ).
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Severe renal impairment: (eGFR below 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) ( 4) Metabolic acidosis, including diabetic ketoacidosis. ( 4 ) History of a serious hypersensitivity reaction to ZITUVIMET, sitagliptin, or metformin, such as anaphylaxis or angioedema. (4) ZITUVIMET is contraindicated in patients with: Severe renal impairment (eGFR below 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis, including diabetic ketoacidosis. History of a serious hypersensitivity reaction to sitagliptin, metformin, or any of the excipients in ZITUVIMET. Serious hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis or angioedema have been reported. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Metformin hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Severe renal impairment (eGFR below 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Hypersensitivity to metformin. Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis, including diabetic ketoacidosis, with or without coma. Severe renal impairment (eGFR below 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) ( 4 , 5.1 ) Hypersensitivity to metformin ( 4 ) Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis, including diabetic ketoacidosis, with or without coma. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Metformin hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Severe renal impairment (eGFR below 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Metformin hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Severe renal impairment (eGFR below 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Severe renal impairment (eGFR below 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ). ( 4 , 5.1 ) Hypersensitivity to metformin. ( 4 ) Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis, including diabetic ketoacidosis, with or without coma. CONTRAINDICATIONS Glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Severe renal impairment (eGFR below 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ). Known hypersensitivity to glipizide or metformin hydrochloride. Diabetic ketoacidosis should be treated with insulin. Severe renal impairment (eGFR below 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) (4 , 5.1) Hypersensitivity to metformin (4) Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis, including diabetic ketoacidosis, with or without coma. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Metformin hydrochloride tablets and metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Severe renal impairment (eGFR below 30 mL/min/1.73 m2) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. Severe renal impairment (eGFR below 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) (4, 5.1) Hypersensitivity to metformin (4) Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis, including diabetic ketoacidosis, with or without coma. CONTRAINDICATIONS Metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets, USP are contraindicated in patients with: 1. Severe Renal Impairment (eGFR below 30mL/min/1.73m2) (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ). 2.Known hypersensitivity to metformin hydrochloride, USP. 3.Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis, including diabetic ketoacidosis, with or without coma. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS 1. RIOMET is contraindicated in patients with: 2. Severe renal impairment (eGFR below 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 3. 4. • Severe renal impairment (eGFR below 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) (4, 5.1) • Hypersensitivity to metformin (4) • Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis, including diabetic ketoacidosis, with or without coma.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 4 presents clinically significant drug interactions with ZITUVIMET: Table 4: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with ZITUVIMET Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. Concomitant use of these drugs with ZITUVIMET may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Intervention: Consider more frequent monitoring of these patients. Examples: Topiramate, zonisamide, acetazolamide or dichlorphenamide. Drugs that Reduce Metformin Clearance Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT 2 ] / multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE] inhibitors) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use with ZITUVIMET. Examples: Ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine. Alcohol Clinical Impact: Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism. Intervention: Warn patients against alcohol intake while receiving ZITUVIMET. Insulin Secretagogues or Insulin Clinical Impact: Coadministration of ZITUVIMET with an insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea) or insulin may increase the risk of hypoglycemia. Intervention: Patients receiving an insulin secretagogue or insulin may require lower doses of the insulin secretagogue or insulin. Drugs Affecting Glycemic Control Clinical Impact: Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. Intervention: When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving ZITUVIMET, observe the patient closely for loss of blood glucose control. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving ZITUVIMET, observe the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Examples: Thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid products, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics, calcium channel blockers, and isoniazid. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may increase risk of lactic acidosis. Consider more frequent monitoring. ( 7 ) Drugs that reduce metformin clearance (such as ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine) may increase the accumulation of metformin. Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use. ( 7 ) Alcohol can potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism. Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake. ( 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 3 presents clinically significant drug interactions with metformin hydrochloride tablets. Table 3: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. Concomitant use of these drugs with metformin hydrochloride tablets may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Drugs that Reduce metformin hydrochloride tablet Clearance Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2] / multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE] inhibitors) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use with metformin hydrochloride tablets. Intervention: Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving metformin hydrochloride tablets. Insulin Secretagogues or Insulin Clinical Impact: Coadministration of metformin hydrochloride tablets with an insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea) or insulin may increase the risk of hypoglycemia. Intervention: When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving metformin hydrochloride tablets, observe the patient closely for loss of blood glucose control. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving metformin hydrochloride tablets, observe the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Consider more frequent monitoring ( 7 ) Drugs that reduce metformin clearance (such as ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine) may increase the accumulation of metformin. Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use ( 7 ) Alcohol can potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism. Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake ( 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 3 presents clinically significant drug interactions with metformin hydrochloride. Table 3: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Metformin Hydrochloride Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. Concomitant use of these drugs with metformin hydrochloride may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Drugs that Reduce Metformin Hydrochloride Clearance Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2] / multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE] inhibitors) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use with metformin hydrochloride. Intervention: Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving metformin hydrochloride. Insulin Secretagogues or Insulin Clinical Impact: Coadministration of metformin hydrochloride with an insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea) or insulin may increase the risk of hypoglycemia. Intervention: When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving metformin hydrochloride, observe the patient closely for loss of blood glucose control. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving metformin hydrochloride, observe the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Drugs that Reduce Metformin Hydrochloride Clearance Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2] / multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE] inhibitors) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Insulin Secretagogues or Insulin Clinical Impact: Co-administration of metformin hydrochloride with an insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea) or insulin may increase the risk of hypoglycemia. Drug Interactions Glipizide and Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of blood glucose control. These drugs include thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid products, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics, calcium channel blocking drugs, and isoniazid. When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets, the patient should be closely observed for loss of blood glucose control. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets, the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia. Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins and is, therefore, less likely to interact with highly protein-bound drugs such as salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, and probenecid as compared to sulfonylureas, which are extensively bound to serum proteins. Glipizide The hypoglycemic action of sulfonylureas may be potentiated by certain drugs, including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, some azoles, and other drugs that are highly protein-bound, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, probenecid, coumarins, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, and beta-adrenergic blocking agents. When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets, the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets, the patient should be observed closely for loss of blood glucose control. In vitro binding studies with human serum proteins indicate that glipizide binds differently than tolbutamide and does not interact with salicylate or dicumarol. However, caution must be exercised in extrapolating these findings to the clinical situation and in the use of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets with these drugs. A potential interaction between oral miconazole and oral hypoglycemic agents leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with the intravenous, topical, or vaginal preparations of miconazole is not known. The effect of concomitant administration of fluconazole and glipizide has been demonstrated in a placebo-controlled crossover study in normal volunteers. All subjects received glipizide alone and following treatment with 100 mg of fluconazole as a single oral daily dose for 7 days, the mean percent increase in the glipizide AUC after fluconazole administration was 56.9% (range: 35% to 81%). In studies assessing the effect of colesevelam on the pharmacokinetics of glipizide ER in healthy volunteers, reductions in glipizide AUC 0-∞ and C max of 12% and 13%, respectively, were observed when colesevelam was coadministered with glipizide ER. When glipizide ER was administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam, there was no significant change in glipizide AUC 0-∞ or C max , –4% and 0%, respectively. Therefore, glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam to ensure that colesevelam does not reduce the absorption of glipizide. Metformin Hydrochloride Furosemide A single-dose, metformin-furosemide drug interaction study in healthy subjects demonstrated that pharmacokinetic parameters of both compounds were affected by coadministration. Furosemide increased the metformin plasma and blood C max by 22% and blood AUC by 15%, without any significant change in metformin renal clearance. When administered with metformin, the C max and AUC of furosemide were 31% and 12% smaller, respectively, than when administered alone, and the terminal half-life was decreased by 32%, without any significant change in furosemide renal clearance. No information is available about the interaction of metformin and furosemide when coadministered chronically. Nifedipine A single-dose, metformin-nifedipine drug interaction study in normal healthy volunteers demonstrated that coadministration of nifedipine increased plasma metformin C max and AUC by 20% and 9%, respectively, and increased the amount excreted in the urine. T max and half-life were unaffected. Nifedipine appears to enhance the absorption of metformin. Metformin had minimal effects on nifedipine. Drugs that reduce metformin clearance Concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2] / multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE] inhibitors such as ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Such interaction between metformin and oral cimetidine has been observed in normal healthy volunteers in both single- and multiple-dose, metformin-cimetidine drug interaction studies, with a 60% increase in peak metformin plasma and whole blood concentrations and a 40% increase in plasma and whole blood metformin AUC. There was no change in elimination half-life in the single-dose study. Metformin had no effect on cimetidine pharmacokinetics. In healthy volunteers, the pharmacokinetics of metformin and propranolol, and metformin and ibuprofen were not affected when coadministered in single-dose interaction studies. Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins and is, therefore, less likely to interact with highly protein-bound drugs such as salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, and probenecid, as compared to the sulfonylureas, which are extensively bound to serum proteins. Other Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Topiramate or other carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (e.g., zonisamide, acetazolamide or dichlorphenamide) frequently causes a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. Concomitant use of these drugs with glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Consider more frequent monitoring of these patients. Alcohol Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism. Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets. Consider more frequent monitoring (7) Drugs that reduce metformin clearance (such as ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine) may increase the accumulation of metformin. Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use (7) Alcohol can potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism. Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake (7) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 3 presents clinically significant drug interactions with metformin hydrochloride tablets and metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets. Table 3: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets And Metformin Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. Concomitant use of these drugs with metformin hydrochloride tablets and metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Drugs that Reduce Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets and Metformin Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Clearance Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2] / multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE] inhibitors) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use with metformin hydrochloride tablets and metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets. Intervention: Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receivingmetformin hydrochloride tablets and metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets. Insulin Secretagogues or Insulin Clinical Impact: Coadministration of metformin hydrochloride tablets and metformin hydrochloride extended-release tabletswith an insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea) or insulin may increase the risk of hypoglycemia. Intervention: When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving metformin hydrochloride tablets and metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets, observe the patient closely for loss of blood glucose control. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving metformin hydrochloride tablets and metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets, observe the patient closely for hypoglycemia. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 1. Table 2 presents clinically significant drug interactions with RIOMET. 2. Table 2: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with RIOMET 1. Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors 1. Clinical Impact: 1. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. Concomitant use of these drugs with RIOMET may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. 1. Intervention: 1. Examples: 1. Topiramate, zonisamide, acetazolamide or dichlorphenamide. Drugs that Reduce RIOMET Clearance 1. Concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT 2 ] / multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE] inhibitors) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use with RIOMET. Ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine. Alcohol 1. Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism. Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving RIOMET. Insulin Secretagogues or Insulin 1. Coadministration of RIOMET with an insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea) or insulin may increase the risk of hypoglycemia. Patients receiving an insulin secretagogue or insulin may require lower doses of the insulin secretagogue or insulin. Drugs Affecting Glycemic Control 1. Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving RIOMET, observe the patient closely for loss of blood glucose control. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving RIOMET, observe the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid products, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics, calcium channel blockers, and isoniazid. • Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may increase risk of lactic acidosis. Consider more frequent monitoring (7) • Drugs that reduce metformin clearance (such as ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine) may increase the accumulation of metformin. Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use (7) • Alcohol can potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism.

=== ATORVASTATIN CALCIUM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Atorvastatin calcium tablets are indicated: To reduce the risk of: Myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, revascularization procedures, and angina in adults with multiple risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) but without clinically evident CHD MI and stroke in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus with multiple risk factors for CHD but without clinically evident CHD Non-fatal MI, fatal and non-fatal stroke, revascularization procedures, hospitalization for congestive heart failure, and angina in adults with clinically evident CHD As an adjunct to diet to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in: Adults with primary hyperlipidemia. Adults and pediatric patients aged 10 years and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). As an adjunct to other LDL-C-lowering therapies, or alone if such treatments are unavailable, to reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients aged 10 years and older with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH). As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with: Primary dysbetalipoproteinemia Hypertriglyceridemia Atorvastatin calcium tablets are an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated ( 1 ): To reduce the risk of: Myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, revascularization procedures, and angina in adults with multiple risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) but without clinically evident CHD. MI and stroke in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus with multiple risk factors for CHD but without clinically evident CHD. Non-fatal MI, fatal and non-fatal stroke, revascularization procedures, hospitalization for congestive heart failure, and angina in adults with clinically evident CHD. As an adjunct to diet to reduce low-density lipoprotein (LDL-C) in: Adults with primary hyperlipidemia. As an adjunct to other LDL-C-lowering therapies to reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients aged 10 years and older with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with: Primary dysbetaliproteinemia. Hypertriglyceridemia. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Therapy with lipid-altering agents should be only one component of multiple risk factor intervention in individuals at significantly increased risk for atherosclerotic vascular disease due to hypercholesterolemia. Drug therapy is recommended as an adjunct to diet when the response to a diet restricted in saturated fat and cholesterol and other nonpharmacologic measures alone has been inadequate. In patients with CHD or multiple risk factors for CHD, atorvastatin calcium tablets can be started simultaneously with diet. Atorvastatin calcium tablets are an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor indicated as an adjunct therapy to diet to: Reduce the risk of MI, stroke, revascularization procedures, and angina in adult patients without CHD, but with multiple risk factors ( 1.1 ). Reduce the risk of MI and stroke in adult patients with type 2 diabetes without CHD, but with multiple risk factors ( 1.1 ). Reduce the risk of non-fatal MI, fatal and non-fatal stroke, revascularization procedures, hospitalization for CHF, and angina in adult patients with CHD ( 1.1 ). Reduce elevated total-C, LDL-C, apo B, and TG levels and increase HDL-C in adult patients with primary hyperlipidemia (heterozygous familial and nonfamilial) and mixed dyslipidemia ( 1.2 ). Reduce elevated TG in adult patients with hypertriglyceridemia and primary dysbetalipoproteinemia ( 1.2 ). Reduce total-C and LDL-C in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) ( 1.2 ). Reduce elevated total-C, LDL-C, and apo B levels in pediatric patients, 10 years to 17 years of age, with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) after failing an adequate trial of diet therapy ( 1.2 ). Limitations of Use: Atorvastatin calcium tablets have not been studied in Fredrickson Types I and V dyslipidemias ( 1.3 ). 1.1 Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease in Adults In adult patients without clinically evident coronary heart disease, but with multiple risk factors for coronary heart disease such as age, smoking, hypertension, low HDL-C, or a family history of early coronary heart disease, atorvastatin calcium tablets are indicated to: Reduce the risk of myocardial infarction Reduce the risk of stroke Reduce the risk for revascularization procedures and angina In adult patients with type 2 diabetes, and without clinically evident coronary heart disease, but with multiple risk factors for coronary heart disease such as retinopathy, albuminuria, smoking, or hypertension, atorvastatin calcium tablets are indicated to: Reduce the risk of myocardial infarction Reduce the risk of stroke In adult patients with clinically evident coronary heart disease, atorvastatin calcium tablets are indicated to: Reduce the risk of non-fatal myocardial infarction Reduce the risk of fatal and non-fatal stroke Reduce the risk for revascularization procedures Reduce the risk of hospitalization for CHF Reduce the risk of angina 1.2 Hyperlipidemia Atorvastatin calcium tablets are indicated: As an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated total-C, LDL-C, apo B, and TG levels and to increase HDL-C in adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (heterozygous familial and nonfamilial) and mixed dyslipidemia ( Fredrickson Types IIa and IIb); As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adult patients with elevated serum TG levels ( Fredrickson Type IV); For the treatment of adult patients with primary dysbetalipoproteinemia ( Fredrickson Type III) who do not respond adequately to diet; To reduce total-C and LDL-C in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) as an adjunct to other lipid-lowering treatments (e.g., LDL apheresis) or if such treatments are unavailable; As an adjunct to diet to reduce total-C, LDL-C, and apo B levels in pediatric patients,10 years to 17 years of age, with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) if after an adequate trial of diet therapy the following findings are present: LDL-C remains ≥ 190 mg/dL or LDL-C remains ≥ 160 mg/dL and: there is a positive family history of premature cardiovascular disease or two or more other CVD risk factors are present in the pediatric patient 1.3 Limitations of Use Atorvastatin calcium tablets have not been studied in conditions where the major lipoprotein abnormality is elevation of chylomicrons ( Fredrickson Types I and V). Reduce elevated total-C, LDL-C, apo B, and TG levels and increase HDL­-C in adult patients with primary hyperlipidemia (heterozygous familial and nonfamilial) and mixed dyslipidemia ( 1.2 ). Limitations of Use : Atorvastatin calcium tablets has not been studied in Fredrickson Types I and V dyslipidemias ( 1.3 ). 1.1 Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease in Adults In adult patients without clinically evident coronary heart disease, but with multiple risk factors for coronary heart disease such as age, smoking, hypertension, low HDL-C, or a family history of early coronary heart disease, atorvastatin calcium tablets are indicated to: Reduce the risk of myocardial infarction Reduce the risk of stroke Reduce the risk for revascularization procedures and angina In adult patients with type 2 diabetes, and without clinically evident coronary heart disease, but with multiple risk factors for coronary heart disease such as retinopathy, albuminuria, smoking, or hypertension, atorvastatin calcium tablets are indicated to: Reduce the risk of myocardial infarction Reduce the risk of stroke In adult patients with clinically evident coronary heart disease, atorvastatin calcium tablets is indicated to: Reduce the risk of non-fatal myocardial infarction Reduce the risk of fatal and non-fatal stroke Reduce the risk for revascularization procedures Reduce the risk of hospitalization for CHF Reduce the risk of angina 1.2 Hyperlipidemia Atorvastatin calcium tablets are indicated: As an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated total-C, LDL-C, apo B, and TG levels and to increase HDL-C in adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (heterozygous familial and non-familial) and mixed dyslipidemia ( Fredrickson Types IIa and IIb); As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adult patients with elevated serum TG levels ( Fredrickson Type IV); For the treatment of adult patients with primary dysbetalipoproteinemia ( Fredrickson Type III) who do not respond adequately to diet; To reduce total-C and LDL-C in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) as an adjunct to other lipid-lowering treatments (e.g., LDL apheresis) or if such treatments are unavailable; As an adjunct to diet to reduce total-C, LDL-C, and apo B levels in pediatric patients, 10 years to 17 years of age, with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) if after an adequate trial of diet therapy the following findings are present: a.LDL-C remains > 190 mg/dL or b.LDL-C remains > 160 mg/dL and: there is a positive family history of premature cardiovascular disease or two or more other CVD risk factors are present in the pediatric patient 1.3 Limitations of Use Atorvastatin calcium tablets has not been studied in conditions where the major lipoprotein abnormality is elevation of chylomicrons ( Fredrickson Types I and V). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amlodipine and atorvastatin tablets are indicated in patients for whom treatment with both amlodipine and atorvastatin is appropriate. Amlodipine Hypertension Amlodipine is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including amlodipine. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. Amlodipine may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) Chronic Stable Angina Amlodipine is indicated for the symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina. Amlodipine may be used alone or in combination with other antianginal agents. Vasospastic Angina (Prinzmetal’s or Variant Angina) Amlodipine is indicated for the treatment of confirmed or suspected vasospastic angina. Amlodipine may be used as monotherapy or in combination with other antianginal agents. Angiographically Documented CAD In patients with recently documented CAD by angiography and without heart failure or an ejection fraction < 40%, amlodipine is indicated to reduce the risk of hospitalization for angina and to reduce the risk of a coronary revascularization procedure. Atorvastatin Atorvastatin is indicated: To reduce the risk of: Myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, revascularization procedures, and angina in adults with multiple risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) but without clinically evident CHD MI and stroke in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus with multiple risk factors for CHD but without clinically evident CHD Non-fatal MI, fatal and non-fatal stroke, revascularization procedures, hospitalization for congestive heart failure, and angina in adults with clinically evident CHD As an adjunct to diet to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in: Adults with primary hyperlipidemia. As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with: Primary dysbetalipoproteinemia Hypertriglyceridemia Amlodipine and atorvastatin tablets are a combination of amlodipine besylate, a calcium channel blocker, and atorvastatin calcium, a HMG CoA-reductase inhibitor (statin), indicated in patients for whom treatment with both amlodipine and atorvastatin is appropriate ( 1 ). Amlodipine is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. Amlodipine is indicated for the treatment of Coronary Artery Disease ( 1 ). Atorvastatin is indicated ( 1 ): To reduce the risk of: Myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, revascularization procedures, and angina in adults with multiple risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) but without clinically evident CHD. As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with: Primary dysbetalipoproteinemia. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Atorvastatin calcium tablets are indicated: • To reduce the risk of: o Myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, revascularization procedures, and angina in adults with multiple risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) but without clinically evident CHD o MI and stroke in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus with multiple risk factors for CHD but without clinically evident CHD o Non-fatal MI, fatal and non-fatal stroke, revascularization procedures, hospitalization for congestive heart failure, and angina in adults with clinically evident CHD • As an adjunct to diet to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in: o Adults with primary hyperlipidemia. o Adults and pediatric patients aged 10 years and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). • As an adjunct to other LDL-C-lowering therapies, or alone if such treatments are unavailable, to reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients aged 10 years and older with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH). • As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with: o Primary dysbetalipoproteinemia o Hypertriglyceridemia Atorvastatin calcium tablets are an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated (1) : • To reduce the risk of: o Myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, revascularization procedures, and angina in adults with multiple risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) but without clinically evident CHD. o MI and stroke in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus with multiple risk factors for CHD but without clinically evident CHD. o Non-fatal MI, fatal and non-fatal stroke, revascularization procedures, hospitalization for congestive heart failure, and angina in adults with clinically evident CHD. • As an adjunct to diet to reduce low-density lipoprotein (LDL-C) in: o Adults with primary hyperlipidemia. • As an adjunct to other LDL-C-lowering therapies to reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients aged 10 years and older with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. • As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with: o Primary dysbetalipoproteinemia. o Hypertriglyceridemia. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Atorvastatin calcium is indicated: To reduce the risk of: Myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, revascularization procedures, and angina in adults with multiple risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) but without clinically evident CHD MI and stroke in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus with multiple risk factors for CHD but without clinically evident CHD Non-fatal MI, fatal and non-fatal stroke, revascularization procedures, hospitalization for congestive heart failure, and angina in adults with clinically evident CHD As an adjunct to diet to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in: Adults with primary hyperlipidemia. As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with: Primary dysbetalipoproteinemia Hypertriglyceridemia Atorvastatin calcium is an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated ( 1 ): To reduce the risk of: Myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, revascularization procedures, and angina in adults with multiple risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) but without clinically evident CHD.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take orally once daily with or without food ( 2.1 ). Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating atorvastatin calcium tablets, and adjust dosage if necessary ( 2.1 ). Adults ( 2.2 ): Recommended starting dosage is 10 or 20 mg once daily; dosage range is 10 mg to 80 mg once daily. Patients requiring LDL-C reduction >45% may start at 40 mg once daily. Pediatric Patients Aged 10 Years of Age and Older with HeFH: Recommended starting dosage is 10 mg once daily; dosage range is 10 to 20 mg once daily ( 2.3 ). Pediatric Patients Aged 10 Years of Age and Older with HoFH: Recommended starting dosage is 10 to 20 mg once daily; dosage range is 10 to 80 mg once daily ( 2.4 ). See full prescribing information for atorvastatin calcium tablets dosage modifications due to drug interactions ( 2.5 ). 2.1 Important Dosage Information Take atorvastatin calcium tablets orally once daily at any time of the day, with or without food. Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating atorvastatin calcium tablets, and adjust the dosage if necessary. 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients The recommended starting dosage of atorvastatin calcium tablets are 10 mg to 20 mg once daily. The dosage range is 10 mg to 80 mg once daily. Patients who require reduction in LDL-C greater than 45% may be started at 40 mg once daily. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 10 Years of Age and Older with HeFH The recommended starting dosage of atorvastatin calcium tablets are 10 mg once daily. The dosage range is 10 mg to 20 mg once daily. 2.4 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 10 Years of Age and Older with HoFH The recommended starting dosage of atorvastatin calcium tablets are 10 mg to 20 mg once daily. 2.5 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Concomitant use of atorvastatin calcium tablets with the following drugs requires dosage modification of atorvastatin calcium tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. Anti-Viral Medications In patients taking saquinavir plus ritonavir, darunavir plus ritonavir, fosamprenavir, fosamprenavir plus ritonavir, elbasvir plus grazoprevir or letermovir, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium tablets 20 mg once daily. In patients taking nelfinavir, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium tablets 40 mg once daily. Select Azole Antifungals or Macrolide Antibiotics In patients taking clarithromycin or itraconazole, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium tablets 20 mg once daily. For additional recommendations regarding concomitant use of atorvastatin calcium tablets with other anti-viral medications, azole antifungals or macrolide antibiotics, see Drug Interactions (7.1). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dose range: 10 mg to 80 mg once daily ( 2.1 ). Recommended start dose: 10 mg or 20 mg once daily ( 2.1 ). Patients requiring large LDL-C reduction (>45%) may start at 40 mg once daily ( 2.1 ). Pediatric patients with HeFH: starting dose: 10 mg once daily; dose range: 10 to 20 mg/day for patients 10 years to 17 years of age ( 2.2 ). 2.1 Hyperlipidemia and Mixed Dyslipidemia The recommended starting dose of atorvastatin calcium tablets are 10 mg or 20 mg once daily. Patients who require a large reduction in LDL-C (more than 45%) may be started at 40 mg once daily. The dosage range of atorvastatin calcium tablets are 10 mg to 80 mg once daily. Atorvastatin calcium tablets can be administered as a single dose at any time of the day, with or without food. The starting dose and maintenance doses of atorvastatin calcium tablets should be individualized according to patient characteristics such as goal of therapy and response. After initiation and/or upon titration of atorvastatin calcium tablets, lipid levels should be analyzed within 2 to 4 weeks and dosage adjusted accordingly. 2.2 Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia in Pediatric Patients (10 Years to 17 Years of Age) The recommended starting dose of atorvastatin calcium tablets are 10 mg/day; the usual dose range is 10 mg to 20 mg orally once daily [see Clinical Studies ( 14.6 )] . Doses should be individualized according to the recommended goal of therapy [see Indications and Usage ( 1.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 )] . Adjustments should be made at intervals of 4 weeks or more. 2.3 Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia The dosage of atorvastatin calcium tablets in patients with HoFH is 10 mg to 80 mg daily. Atorvastatin calcium tablets should be used as an adjunct to other lipid-lowering treatments (e.g., LDL apheresis) in these patients or if such treatments are unavailable. 2.4 Concomitant Lipid-Lowering Therapy Atorvastatin calcium tablets may be used with bile acid resins. The combination of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) and fibrates should generally be used with caution [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . 2.5 Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment Renal disease does not affect the plasma concentrations nor LDL-C reduction of atorvastatin calcium tablets; thus, dosage adjustment in patients with renal dysfunction is not necessary [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.6 Dosage in Patients Taking Cyclosporine, Clarithromycin, Itraconazole, Letermovir, or Certain Protease Inhibitors In patients taking cyclosporine or the HIV protease inhibitors tipranavir plus ritonavir or the hepatitis C virus (HCV) protease inhibitor glecaprevir plus pibrentasvir or letermovir when co-administered with cyclosporine, therapy with atorvastatin calcium tablets should be avoided. In patients with HIV taking lopinavir plus ritonavir, use the lowest dose necessary of atorvastatin calcium tablets. In patients taking clarithromycin, itraconazole, elbasvir plus grazoprevir, or in patients with HIV taking a combination of saquinavir plus ritonavir, darunavir plus ritonavir, fosamprenavir, fosamprenavir plus ritonavir or letermovir therapy with atorvastatin calcium tablets should be limited to 20 mg, and appropriate clinical assessment is recommended to ensure that the lowest dose necessary of atorvastatin calcium tablets are used. In patients taking the HIV protease inhibitor nelfinavir therapy with atorvastatin calcium tablets should be limited to 40 mg. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dose range: 10 to 80 mg once daily ( 2.1 ). Recommended start dose: 10 or 20 mg once daily ( 2.1 ). 2.1 Hyperlipidemia and Mixed Dyslipidemia The recommended starting dose of atorvastatin calcium tablets are 10 or 20 mg once daily. The dosage range of atorvastatin calcium tablets are 10 to 80 mg once daily. 2.2 Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia in Pediatric Patients (10 Years to17 Years of Age) The recommended starting dose of atorvastatin calcium tablets is 10 mg/day; the usual dose range is 10 to 20 mg orally once daily [ see Clinical Studies (14.6 )]. Doses should be individualized according to the recommended goal of therapy [ see Indications and Usage (1.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12) ]. 2.3 Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia The dosage of atorvastatin calcium tablets in patients with HoFH is 10 to 80 mg daily. The combination of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) and fibrates should generally be used with caution [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Drug Interactions (7) ]. 2.5 Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment Renal disease does not affect the plasma concentrations nor LDL-C reduction of atorvastatin calcium tablets; thus, dosage adjustment in patients with renal dysfunction is not necessary [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.6 Dosage in Patients Taking Cyclosporine, Clarithromycin, Itraconazole, Letermovir, or Certain Protease Inhibitors In patients taking cyclosporine or the HIV protease inhibitor tipranavir plus ritonavir or the hepatitis C virus (HCV) protease inhibitor glecaprevir plus pibrentasvir or letermovir when co-administered with cyclosporine, therapy with atorvastatin calcium tablets should be avoided. In patients taking clarithromycin, itraconazole, elbasvir plus grazoprevir, or in patients with HIV taking a combination of saquinavir plus ritonavir, darunavir plus ritonavir, fosamprenavir, fosamprenavir plus ritonavir or letermovir therapy with atorvastatin calcium tablets should be limited to 20 mg, and appropriate clinical assessment is recommended to ensure that the lowest dose necessary of atorvastatin calcium tablets is used. In patients taking the HIV protease inhibitor nelfinavir therapy with atorvastatin calcium tablets should be limited to 40 mg [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Drug Interactions (7.1)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Amlodipine and Atorvastatin Tablets Dosage of amlodipine and atorvastatin tablets must be individualized on the basis of both effectiveness and tolerance for each individual component in the treatment of hypertension/angina and hyperlipidemia. Select doses of amlodipine and atorvastatin independently. Amlodipine and atorvastatin tablets may be substituted for its individually titrated components. Patients may be given the equivalent dose of amlodipine and atorvastatin or a dose of amlodipine and atorvastatin with increased amounts of amlodipine, atorvastatin, or both for additional antianginal effects, blood pressure lowering, or lipid-lowering effect. Amlodipine and atorvastatin tablets may be used to provide additional therapy for patients already on one of its components. Amlodipine and atorvastatin tablets may be used to initiate treatment in patients with hyperlipidemia and either hypertension or angina. Important Dosage Information Take amlod ipine and atorvastatin tablets orally once daily at any time of the day, with or without food. Amlodipine The usual initial antihypertensive oral dosage of amlodipine is 5 mg once daily, and the maximum dose is 10 mg once daily. Pediatric (age > 6 years), small adult, fragile, or elderly patients, or patients with hepatic insufficiency may be started on 2.5 mg once daily and this dose may be used when adding amlodipine to other antihypertensive therapy. Adjust dosage according to blood pressure goals. In general, wait 7 to 14 days between titration steps. Titration may proceed more rapidly, however, if clinically warranted, provided the patient is assessed frequently. Angina The recommended dosage of amlodipine for chronic stable or vasospastic angina is 5 to 10 mg, with the lower dose suggested in the elderly and in patients with hepatic insufficiency. Most patients will require 10 mg for adequate effect. Coronary Artery Disease The recommended dosage range of amlodipine for patients with CAD is 5 to 10 mg once daily. In clinical studies, the majority of patients required 10 mg [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )] . Pediatrics The effective antihypertensive oral dose of amlodipine in pediatric patients ages 6 to 17 years is 2.5 mg to 5 mg once daily. Doses in excess of 5 mg daily have not been studied in pediatric patients [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Clinical Studies (14.1)] . Atorvastatin Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating atorvastatin, and adjust the dosage if necessary. Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients The recommended starting dosage of atorvastatin is 10 mg to 20 mg once daily. Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 10 Years of Age and Older with HeFH The recommended starting dosage of atorvastatin is 10 mg once daily. Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 10 Years of Age and Older with HoFH The recommended starting dosage of atorvastatin is 10 mg to 20 mg once daily. Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Concomitant use of atorvastatin with the following drugs requires dosage modification of atorvastatin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. Anti-Viral Medications In patients taking saquinavir plus ritonavir, darunavir plus ritonavir, fosamprenavir, fosamprenavir plus ritonavir, elbasvir plus grazoprevir or letermovir, do not exceed atorvastatin 20 mg once daily. In patients taking nelfinavir, do not exceed atorvastatin 40 mg once daily. Select Azole Antifungals or Macrolide Antibiotics In patients taking clarithromycin or itraconazole, do not exceed atorvastatin 20 mg once daily. For additional recommendations regarding concomitant use of atorvastatin with other anti-viral medications, azole antifungals or macrolide antibiotics, [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. Usual starting dose (mg daily) Maximum dose (mg daily) Amlodipine 5 a 10 Atorvastatin 10 to 20 b 80 a Start small adults or children, fragile, or elderly patients, or patients with hepatic insufficiency on 2.5 mg once daily ( 2 ) b Start patients requiring large LDL-C reduction (>45%) at 40 mg once daily ( 2 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Take orally once daily with or without food ( 2.1 ). • Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating atorvastatin calcium tablets, and adjust dosage if necessary ( 2.1 ). • Adults ( 2.2 ): o Recommended starting dosage is 10 or 20 mg once daily; dosage range is 10 mg to 80 mg once daily. o Patients requiring LDL-C reduction >45% may start at 40 mg once daily. • Pediatric Patients Aged 10 Years of Age and Older with HeFH: Recommended starting dosage is 10 mg once daily; dosage range is 10 to 20 mg once daily ( 2.3 ). • Pediatric Patients Aged 10 Years of Age and Older with HoFH: Recommended starting dosage is 10 to 20 mg once daily; dosage range is 10 to 80 mg once daily ( 2.4 ). • See full prescribing information for atorvastatin calcium tablets dosage modifications due to drug interactions ( 2.5 ). 2.1 Important Dosage Information • Take atorvastatin calcium tablets orally once daily at any time of the day, with or without food. • Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating atorvastatin calcium tablets, and adjust the dosage if necessary. • If a dose is missed, advise patients not to take the missed dose and resume with the next scheduled dose. Anti-Viral Medications • In patients taking saquinavir plus ritonavir, darunavir plus ritonavir, fosamprenavir, fosamprenavir plus ritonavir, elbasvir plus grazoprevir or letermovir, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium tablets 20 mg once daily. • In patients taking nelfinavir, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium tablets 40 mg once daily. Select Azole Antifungals or Macrolide Antibiotics • In patients taking clarithromycin or itraconazole, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium tablets 20 mg once daily. For additional recommendations regarding concomitant use of atorvastatin calcium tablets with other anti-viral medications, azole antifungals or macrolide antibiotics, see Drug Interactions (7.1) . Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating atorvastatin calcium, and adjust dosage if necessary ( 2.1 ). 2.1 Important Dosage Information Take atorvastatin calcium tablet orally once daily at any time of the day, with or without food. If a dose is missed, advise patients not to take the missed dose and resume with the next scheduled dose. 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients The recommended starting dosage of atorvastatin calcium is 10 mg to 20 mg once daily. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 10 Years of Age and Older with HeFH The recommended starting dosage of atorvastatin calcium is 10 mg once daily. 2.4 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 10 Years of Age and Older with HoFH The recommended starting dosage of atorvastatin calcium is 10 mg to 20 mg once daily. 2.5 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Concomitant use of atorvastatin with the following drugs requires dosage modification of atorvastatin [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . Anti-Viral Medications In patients taking saquinavir plus ritonavir, darunavir plus ritonavir, fosamprenavir, fosamprenavir plus ritonavir, elbasvir plus grazoprevir or letermovir, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium 20 mg once daily. In patients taking nelfinavir, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium 40 mg once daily. Select Azole Antifungals or Macrolide Antibiotics In patients taking clarithromycin or itraconazole, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium 20 mg once daily. For additional recommendations regarding concomitant use of atorvastatin calcium with other anti-viral medications, azole antifungals or macrolide antibiotics, see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ). See full prescribing information for atorvastatin calcium dosage modifications due to drug interactions ( 2.5 ). 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients The recommended starting dosage of atorvastatin calcium tablets is 10 mg to 20 mg once daily. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 10 Years of Age and Older with HeFH The recommended starting dosage of atorvastatin calcium tablets is 10 mg once daily. 2.4 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 10 Years of Age and Older with HoFH The recommended starting dosage of atorvastatin calcium tablets is 10 mg to 20 mg once daily. 2.5 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Concomitant use of atorvastatin calcium tablets with the following drugs requires dosage modification of atorvastatin calcium tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. For additional recommendations regarding concomitant use of atorvastatin calcium tablets with other anti-viral medications, azole antifungals or macrolide antibiotics, see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ).
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Hypersensitivity to atorvastatin or any excipients in atorvastatin calcium. Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioneurotic edema, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis, have been reported [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis ( 4 ). Hypersensitivity to atorvastatin or any excipient in atorvastatin calcium ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Active Liver Disease, Which May Include Unexplained Persistent Elevations in Hepatic Transaminase Levels Hypersensitivity to Any Component of This Medication Pregnancy [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 , 8.3 )]. Lactation [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.2 )] . Active liver disease, which may include unexplained persistent elevations in hepatic transaminase levels ( 4 ). Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication ( 4 ). Pregnancy ( 4 , 8.1 , 8.3 ). Lactation ( 4 , 8.2 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Active Liver Disease, Which May Include Unexplained Persistent Elevations in Hepatic Transaminase Levels Hypersensitivity to Any Component of This Medication Pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.1 , 8.3 )]. Lactation [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.2) ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Hypersensitivity to amlodipine, atorvastatin or any excipients in amlodipine and atorvastatin tablets. Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioneurotic edema, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis, have been reported [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )]. Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis (4). Hypersensitivity to amlodipine, atorvastatin or any excipient in amlodipine and atorvastatin tablets (4). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] • Hypersensitivity to atorvastatin or any excipients in atorvastatin calcium. Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioneurotic edema, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis, have been reported [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . • Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis ( 4 ). • Hypersensitivity to atorvastatin or any excipient in atorvastatin calcium ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] Hypersensitivity to atorvastatin or any excipients in atorvastatin calcium tablets. Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioneurotic edema, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis, have been reported [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . Hypersensitivity to atorvastatin or any excipient in atorvastatin calcium tablets ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] Hypersensitivity to atorvastatin or any excipients in atorvastatin calcium. Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis ( 4) .
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for details regarding concomitant use of atorvastatin calcium with other drugs or grapefruit juice that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis ( 2.5 , 7.1 ). Rifampin: May reduce atorvastatin plasma concentrations. Administer simultaneously with atorvastatin calcium ( 7.2 ). Oral Contraceptives: May increase plasma levels of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol; consider this effect when selecting an oral contraceptive (7.3 ). Digoxin: May increase digoxin plasma levels; monitor patients appropriately ( 7.3 ). 7.1 Drug Interactions that may Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Atorvastatin Calcium Atorvastatin is a substrate of CYP3A4 and transporters (e.g., OATP1B1/1B3, P-gp, or BCRP). Atorvastatin plasma levels can be significantly increased with concomitant administration of inhibitors of CYP3A4 and transporters. Table 2 includes a list of drugs that may increase exposure to atorvastatin and may increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 2: Drug Interactions that may Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Atorvastatin Cyclosporine or Gemfibrozil Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin and cyclosporine, an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and OATP1B1 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Gemfibrozil may cause myopathy when given alone. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of cyclosporine or gemfibrozil with atorvastatin. Intervention: Concomitant use of cyclosporine or gemfibrozil with atorvastatin is not recommended. Anti-Viral Medications Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin with many anti-viral medications, which are inhibitors of CYP3A4 and/or transporters (e.g., BCRP, OATP1B1/1B3, P-gp, MRP2, and/or OAT2) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with concomitant use of ledipasvir plus sofosbuvir with atorvastatin. Intervention: Concomitant use of tipranavir plus ritonavir or glecaprevir plus pibrentasvir with atorvastatin is not recommended. In patients taking lopinavir plus ritonavir, or simeprevir, consider the risk/benefit of concomitant use with atorvastatin. In patients taking saquinavir plus ritonavir, darunavir plus ritonavir, fosamprenavir, fosamprenavir plus ritonavir, elbasvir plus grazoprevir or letermovir, do not exceed atorvastatin 20 mg. In patients taking nelfinavir, do not exceed atorvastatin 40 mg [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Consider the risk/benefit of concomitant use of ledipasvir plus sofosbuvir with atorvastatin. Monitor all patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy particularly during initiation of therapy and during upward dose titration of either drug. Examples: Tipranavir plus ritonavir, glecaprevir plus pibrentasvir, lopinavir plus ritonavir, simeprevir, saquinavir plus ritonavir, darunavir plus ritonavir, fosamprenavir, fosamprenavir plus ritonavir, elbasvir plus grazoprevir, letermovir, nelfinavir, and ledipasvir plus sofosbuvir. Select Azole Antifungals or Macrolide Antibiotics Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin with select azole antifungals or macrolide antibiotics, due to inhibition of CYP3A4 and/or transporters [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: In patients taking clarithromycin or itraconazole, do not exceed atorvastatin 20 mg [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Consider the risk/benefit of concomitant use of other azole antifungals or macrolide antibiotics with atorvastatin. Examples: Erythromycin, clarithromycin, itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, and voriconazole. Niacin Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been observed with concomitant use of lipid modifying dosages of niacin ( > 1 gram/day niacin) with atorvastatin. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using lipid modifying dosages of niacin concomitantly with atorvastatin outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. If concomitant use is decided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy particularly during initiation of therapy and during upward dose titration of either drug. Fibrates (other than Gemfibrozil) Clinical Impact: Fibrates may cause myopathy when given alone. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of fibrates with atorvastatin. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using fibrates concomitantly with atorvastatin outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Colchicine Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with concomitant use of colchicine with atorvastatin. Intervention: Consider the risk/benefit of concomitant use of colchicine with atorvastatin. Grapefruit Juice Clinical Impact: Grapefruit juice consumption, especially excessive consumption, more than 1.2 liters/daily, can raise the plasma levels of atorvastatin and may increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Intervention: Avoid intake of large quantities of grapefruit juice, more than 1.2 liters daily, when taking atorvastatin. 7.2 Drug Interactions that may Decrease Exposure to Atorvastatin Calcium Table 3 presents drug interactions that may decrease exposure to atorvastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 3: Drug Interactions that may Decrease Exposure to Atorvastatin Rifampin Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of atorvastatin with rifampin, an inducer of cytochrome P450 3A4 and inhibitor of OATP1B1, can lead to variable reductions in plasma concentrations of atorvastatin. Due to the dual interaction mechanism of rifampin, delayed administration of atorvastatin after administration of rifampin has been associated with a significant reduction in atorvastatin plasma concentrations. Intervention: Administer atorvastatin and rifampin simultaneously. 7.3 Atorvastatin Calcium Effects on Other Drugs Table 4 presents Atorvastatin’s effect on other drugs and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 4: Atorvastatin Effects on Other Drugs Oral Contraceptives Clinical Impact: Co-administration of atorvastatin and an oral contraceptive increased plasma concentrations of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Consider this when selecting an oral contraceptive for patients taking atorvastatin. Digoxin Clinical Impact: When multiple doses of atorvastatin and digoxin were co-administered, steady state plasma digoxin concentrations increased [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Monitor patients taking digoxin appropriately. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug Interactions that may Increase the Risk of Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis ( 2.6 , 5.1 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) Interacting Agents Prescribing Recommendations Cyclosporine, tipranavir plus ritonavir, glecaprevir plus pibrentasvir Avoid atorvastatin Clarithromycin, itraconazole, saquinavir plus ritonavir, darunavir plus ritonavir, fosamprenavir, fosamprenavir plus ritonavir, elbasvir plus grazoprevir, letermovir Do not exceed 20 mg atorvastatin daily Nelfinavir Do not exceed 40 mg atorvastatin daily Lopinavir plus ritonavir, simeprevir, fibric acid derivatives, erythromycin, azole antifungals, lipid modifying doses of niacin, colchicine Consider the risk/benefit of concomitant use with atorvastatin Other Lipid-Lowering Medications: Use with fibrate products or lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin increases the risk of adverse skeletal muscle effects. Caution should be used when prescribing with atorvastatin ( 7 ). Rifampin should be simultaneously co-administered with atorvastatin ( 7.2 ). Oral Contraceptives: Values for norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol may be increased ( 7.3 ). Digoxin: Patients should be monitored appropriately ( 7.3 ). 7.1 Drug Interactions that may Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Atorvastatin Atorvastatin is a substrate of CYP3A4 and transporters (e.g., OATP1B1/1B3, P-gp, or BCRP). Table 3 includes a list of drugs that may increase exposure to atorvastatin calcium and may increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Table 3: Drug Interactions that may Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Atorvastatin Cyclosporine or Gemfibrozil Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin and cyclosporine, an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and OATP1B1 [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Anti-Viral Medications Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin with many anti-viral medications, which are inhibitors of CYP3A4 and/or transporters (e.g., BCRP, OATP1B1/1B3, P-gp, MRP2, and/or OAT2) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: ● Concomitant use of tipranavir plus ritonavir or glecaprevir plus pibrentasvir with atorvastatin is not recommended. ● In patients taking lopinavir plus ritonavir, or simeprevir, consider the risk/benefit of concomitant use with atorvastatin. ● In patients taking saquinavir plus ritonavir, darunavir plus ritonavir, fosamprenavir, fosamprenavir plus ritonavir, elbasvir plus grazoprevir or letermovir, do not exceed atorvastatin 20 mg. ● In patients taking nelfinavir, do not exceed atorvastatin 40 mg [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )]. ● Consider the risk/benefit of concomitant use of ledipasvir plus sofosbuvir with atorvastatin. ● Monitor all patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy particularly during initiation of therapy and during upward dose titration of either drug. Select Azole Antifungals or Macrolide Antibiotics Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin with select azole antifungals or macrolide antibiotics, due to inhibition of CYP3A4 and/or transporters [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: In patients taking clarithromycin or itraconazole, do not exceed atorvastatin 20 mg [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )]. Niacin Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been observed with concomitant use of lipid modifying dosages of niacin (≥1 gram/day niacin) with atorvastatin. 7.2 Drug Interactions that may Decrease Exposure to Atorvastatin Table 4 presents drug interactions that may decrease exposure to atorvastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 4: Drug Interactions that may Decrease Exposure to Atorvastatin Rifampin Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of atorvastatin with rifampin, an inducer of cytochrome P450 3A4 and inhibitor of OATP1B1, can lead to variable reductions in plasma concentrations of atorvastatin. 7.3 Atorvastatin Effects on Other Drugs Table 5 presents atorvastatin's effect on other drugs and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 5: Atorvastatin Effects on Other Drugs Oral Contraceptives Clinical Impact: Co-administration of atorvastatin and an oral contraceptive increased plasma concentrations of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Digoxin Clinical Impact: When multiple doses of atorvastatin and digoxin were co-administered, steady state plasma digoxin concentrations increased [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug Interactions that may Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with atorvastatin calcium ( 2.6 , 5.1 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) Interacting Agents Prescribing Recommendations Cyclosporine, tipranavir plus ritonavir, glecaprevir plus pibrentasvir Avoid atorvastatin Clarithromycin, itraconazole, saquinavir plus ritonavir, darunavir plus ritonavir, fosamprenavir, fosamprenavir plus ritonavir, elbasvir plus grazoprevir, letermovir Do not exceed 20 mg atorvastatin daily Nelfinavir Do not exceed 40 mg atorvastatin daily Lopinavir plus ritonavir, simeprevir, fibric acid derivatives, erythromycin, azole antifungals, lipid-modifying doses of niacin, colchicine Consider the risk/benefit of concomitant use with atorvastatin Other Lipid-Lowering Medications: Use with fibrate products or lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin increases the risk of adverse skeletal muscle effects. Caution should be used when prescribing with atorvastatin calcium ( 7 ). Rifampin should be simultaneously co-administered with atorvastatin calcium ( 7.2 ). Table 3 includes a list of drugs that may increase exposure to atorvastatin and may increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 3: Drug Interactions that may Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Atorvastatin Cyclosporine or Gemfibrozil Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin and cyclosporine, an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and OATP1B1 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Anti-Viral Medications Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin with many anti-viral medications, which are inhibitors of CYP3A4 and/or transporters (e.g., BCRP, OATP1B1/1B3, P-gp, MRP2, and/or OAT2) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Intervention: • Concomitant use of tipranavir plus ritonavir or glecaprevir plus pibrentasvir with atorvastatin is not recommended. • In patients taking lopinavir plus ritonavir, or simeprevir, consider the risk/benefit of concomitant use with atorvastatin. • In patients taking saquinavir plus ritonavir, darunavir plus ritonavir, fosamprenavir, fosamprenavir plus ritonavir, elbasvir plus grazoprevir or letermovir, do not exceed atorvastatin 20 mg. • In patients taking nelfinavir, do not exceed atorvastatin 40 mg [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)]. • Consider the risk/benefit of concomitant use of ledipasvir plus sofosbuvir with atorvastatin. • Monitor all patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy particularly during initiation of therapy and during upward dose titration of either drug. Select Azole Antifungals or Macrolide Antibiotics Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin with select azole antifungals or macrolide antibiotics, due to inhibition of CYP3A4 and/or transporters [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Intervention: In patients taking clarithromycin or itraconazole, do not exceed atorvastatin 20 mg [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)]. 7.2 Drug Interactions that may Decrease Exposure to Atorvastatin Calcium Table 4 presents drug interactions that may decrease exposure to atorvastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 4: Drug Interactions that may Decrease Exposure to Atorvastatin Rifampin Cli nical Impact: Concomitant administration of atorvastatin with rifampin, an inducer of cytochrome P450 3A4 and inhibitor of OATP1B1, can lead to variable reductions in plasma concentrations of atorvastatin. 7.3 Atorvastatin Calcium Effects on Other Drugs Table 5 presents Atorvastatin’s effect on other drugs and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 5: Atorvastatin Effects on Other Drugs Oral Contraceptives Cli nical Impact: Co-administration of atorvastatin and an oral contraceptive increased plasma concentrations of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Digoxin Cli nical Impact: When multiple doses of atorvastatin and digoxin were co-administered, steady state plasma digoxin concentrations increased [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Data from a drug-drug interaction study involving 10 mg of amlodipine and 80 mg of atorvastatin in healthy subjects indicate that the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine are not altered when the drugs are co-administered. The effect of amlodipine on the pharmacokinetics of atorvastatin showed no effect on the C max : 91% (90% confidence interval: 80 to 103%), but the AUC of atorvastatin increased by 18% (90% confidence interval: 109 to 127%) in the presence of amlodipine, which is not clinically meaningful. No drug interaction studies have been conducted with amlodipine and atorvastatin and other drugs, although studies have been conducted in the individual amlodipine and atorvastatin components, as described below: Amlodipine See full prescribing information for details regarding concomitant use of amlodipine and atorvastatin tablets with other drugs or grapefruit juice that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis (2.5, 7.3 ). Administer simultaneously with atorvastatin ( 7.4 ) Oral Contraceptives: May increase plasma levels of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol; consider this effect when selecting an oral contraceptive ( 7.5 ). Digoxin: May increase digoxin plasma levels; monitor patients appropriately ( 7.5 ). 7.1 Impact of Other Drugs on Amlodipine CYP3A Inhibitors Co-administration with CYP3A inhibitors (moderate and strong) results in increased systemic exposure to amlodipine and may require dose reduction. Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema when amlodipine is co-administered with CYP3A inhibitors to determine the need for dose adjustment [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . CYP3A Inducers No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine. Blood pressure should be closely monitored when amlodipine is co-administered with CYP3A inducers. Sildenafil Monitor for hypotension when sildenafil is co-administered with amlodipine [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . 7.2 Impact of Amlodipine on Other Drugs Immunosuppressants Amlodipine may increase the systemic exposure of cyclosporine or tacrolimus when co-administered. Frequent monitoring of trough blood levels of cyclosporine and tacrolimus is recommended and adjust the dose when appropriate [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Atorvastatin 7.3 Drug Interactions that may Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Atorvastatin Atorvastatin is a substrate of CYP3A4 and transporters (e.g., OATP1B1/1B3, P-gp, or BCRP). Table 3 includes a list of drugs that may increase exposure to atorvastatin and may increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 3. Drug Interactions that may Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Atorvastatin Cyclosporine or Gemfibrozil Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin and cyclosporine, an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and OATP1B1 [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of cyclosporine or gemfibrozil with atorvastatin . Anti-Viral Medications Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin with many anti-viral medications, which are inhibitors of CYP3A4 and/or transporters (e.g., BCRP, OATP1B1/1B3, P-gp, MRP2, and/or OAT2) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . In patients taking saquinavir plus ritonavir, darunavir plus ritonavir, fosamprenavir, fosamprenavir plus ritonavir, elbasvir plus grazoprevir or letermovir do not exceed atorvastatin 20 mg. In patients taking nelfinavir, do not exceed atorvastatin 40 mg [see Dosage and Administration ( 2 )] . Examples: Tipranavir plus ritonavir, glecaprevir plus pibrentasvir, lopinavir plus ritonavir, simeprevir, saquinavir plus ritonavir, darunavir plus ritonavir, fosamprenavir, fosamprenavir plus ritonavir, elbasvir plus grazoprevir, letermovir, nelfinavir, and ledipasvir plus sofosbuvir . Select Azole Antifungals or Macrolide Antibiotics Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin with select azole antifungals or macrolide antibiotics, due to inhibition of CYP3A4 and/or transporters [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: In patients taking clarithromycin or itraconazole, do not exceed atorvastatin 20 mg [see Dosage and Administration ( 2 )] . Grapefruit Juice Clinical Impact: Grapefruit juice consumption, especially excessive consumption, more than 1.2 liters/daily can raise the plasma levels of atorvastatin and may increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. 7.4 Drug Interactions that may Decrease Exposure to Atorvastatin Table 4 presents drug interactions that may decrease exposure to atorvastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 4. Drug Interactions that may Decrease Exposure to Atorvastatin Rifampin Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of atorvastatin with rifampin, an inducer of cytochrome P450 3A4 and inhibitor of OATP1B1, can lead to variable reductions in plasma concentrations of atorvastatin. 7.5 Atorvastatin Effects on Other Drugs Table 5 presents atorvastatin’s effect on other drugs and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 5. Atorvastatin Effects on Other Drugs Oral Contraceptives Clinical Impact: Co-administration of atorvastatin and an oral contraceptive increased plasma concentrations of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Digoxin Clinical Impact: When multiple doses of atorvastatin and digoxin were co-administered, steady state plasma digoxin concentrations increased [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • See full prescribing information for details regarding concomitant use of atorvastatin calcium with other drugs or grapefruit juice that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis ( 2.5 , 7.1 ). • Rifampin: May reduce atorvastatin plasma concentrations. • Oral Contraceptives: May increase plasma levels of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol; consider this effect when selecting an oral contraceptive ( 7.3 ). • Digoxin: May increase digoxin plasma levels; monitor patients appropriately ( 7.3 ). 7.1 Drug Interactions that may Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with atorvastatin calcium Atorvastatin calcium is a substrate of CYP3A4 and transporters (e.g., OATP1B1/1B3, P-gp, or BCRP). Atorvastatin calcium plasma levels can be significantly increased with concomitant administration of inhibitors of CYP3A4 and transporters. Table 2 includes a list of drugs that may increase exposure to atorvastatin calcium and may increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 2: Drug Interactions that may Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Atorvastatin Calcium Cyclosporine or Gemfibrozil Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin calcium and cyclosporine, an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and OATP1B1 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of cyclosporine or gemfibrozil with atorvastatin calcium. Intervention: Concomitant use of cyclosporine or gemfibrozil with atorvastatin calcium is not recommended. Anti-Viral Medications Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin calcium with many anti-viral medications, which are inhibitors of CYP3A4 and/or transporters (e.g., BCRP, OATP1B1/1B3, P-gp, MRP2, and/or OAT2) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with concomitant use of ledipasvir plus sofosbuvir with atorvastatin calcium. Intervention: Concomitant use of tipranavir plus ritonavir or glecaprevir plus pibrentasvir with atorvastatin calcium is not recommended. In patients taking saquinavir plus ritonavir, darunavir plus ritonavir, fosamprenavir, fosamprenavir plus ritonavir, elbasvir plus grazoprevir or letermovir, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium 20 mg. In patients taking nelfinavir, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium 40 mg [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Consider the risk/benefit of concomitant use of ledipasvir plus sofosbuvir with atorvastatin calcium. Select Azole Antifungals or Macrolide Antibiotics Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin calcium with select azole antifungals or macrolide antibiotics, due to inhibition of CYP3A4 and/or transporters [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: In patients taking clarithromycin or itraconazole, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium 20 mg [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Consider the risk/benefit of concomitant use of other azole antifungals or macrolide antibiotics with atorvastatin calcium. Niacin Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been observed with concomitant use of lipid modifying dosages of niacin (≥1 gram/day niacin) with atorvastatin calcium. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using lipid modifying dosages of niacin concomitantly with atorvastatin calcium outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of fibrates with atorvastatin calcium. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using fibrates concomitantly with atorvastatin calcium outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Colchicine Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with concomitant use of colchicine with atorvastatin calcium. Intervention: Consider the risk/benefit of concomitant use of colchicine with atorvastatin calcium. Intervention: Avoid intake of large quantities of grapefruit juice, more than 1.2 liters daily, when taking atorvastatin calcium. 7.2 Drug Interactions that may Decrease Exposure to atorvastatin calcium Table 3 presents drug interactions that may decrease exposure to atorvastatin calcium and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 3: Drug Interactions that may Decrease Exposure to Atorvastatin Calcium Rifampin Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of atorvastatin calcium with rifampin, an inducer of cytochrome P450 3A4 and inhibitor of OATP1B1, can lead to variable reductions in plasma concentrations of atorvastatin. Due to the dual interaction mechanism of rifampin, delayed administration of atorvastatin calcium after administration of rifampin has been associated with a significant reduction in atorvastatin plasma concentrations. Intervention: Administer atorvastatin calcium and rifampin simultaneously. 7.3 Atorvastatin calcium Effects on Other Drugs Table 4 presents atorvastatin calcium’s effect on other drugs and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 4: Atorvastatin Calcium Effects on Other Drugs Oral Contraceptives Clinical Impact: Co-administration of atorvastatin calcium and an oral contraceptive increased plasma concentrations of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Consider this when selecting an oral contraceptive for patients taking atorvastatin calcium. Digoxin Clinical Impact: When multiple doses of atorvastatin calcium and digoxin were co-administered, steady state plasma digoxin concentrations increased [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Administer simultaneously with atorvastatin ( 7.2 ). Oral Contraceptives: May increase plasma levels of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol; consider this effect when selecting an oral contraceptive ( 7.3 ). Table 2 includes a list of drugs that may increase exposure to atorvastatin and may increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Table 2: Drug Interactions that may Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Atorvastatin Calcium Cyclosporine or Gemfibrozil Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin calcium and cyclosporine, an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and OATP1B1 [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Anti-Viral Medications Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin calcium with many anti-viral medications, which are inhibitors of CYP3A4 and/or transporters (e.g., BCRP, OATP1B1/1B3, P-gp, MRP2, and/or OAT2) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . In patients taking nelfinavir, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium 40 mg [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )] . Select Azole Antifungals or Macrolide Antibiotics Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin calcium with select azole antifungals or macrolide antibiotics, due to inhibition of CYP3A4 and/or transporters [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: In patients taking clarithromycin or itraconazole, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium 20 mg [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )] . Niacin Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been observed with concomitant use of lipid modifying dosages of niacin (≥ 1 gram/day niacin) with atorvastatin calcium. 7.3 Atorvastatin Calcium Effects on Other Drugs Table 4 presents atorvastatin calcium effect on other drugs and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 4: Atorvastatin Calcium Effects on Other Drugs Oral Contraceptives Clinical Impact: Co-administration of atorvastatin calcium and an oral contraceptive increased plasma concentrations of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Digoxin Clinical Impact: When multiple doses of atorvastatin calcium and digoxin were co-administered, steady state plasma digoxin concentrations increased [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 2 includes a list of drugs that may increase exposure to atorvastatin calcium and may increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Table 2: Drug Interactions that may Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with atorvastatin calcium Cyclosporine or Gemfibrozil Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin calcium and cyclosporine, an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and OATP1B1 [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Anti-Viral Medications Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin calcium with many anti-viral medications, which are inhibitors of CYP3A4 and/or transporters (e.g., BCRP, OATP1B1/1B3, P-gp, MRP2, and/or OAT2) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. In patients taking nelfinavir, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium 40 mg [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )]. Select Azole Antifungals or Macrolide Antibiotics Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin calcium with select azole antifungals or macrolide antibiotics, due to inhibition of CYP3A4 and/or transporters [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: In patients taking clarithromycin or itraconazole, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium 20 mg [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )]. 7.3 Atorvastatin calcium Effects on Other Drugs Table 4 presents atorvastatin’s calcium effect on other drugs and instructions for preventing or managing them. Digoxin Clinical Impact: When multiple doses of atorvastatin calcium and digoxin were co-administered, steady state plasma digoxin concentrations increased [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )].

=== BUPROPION HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are an aminoketone antidepressant, indicated for: treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) (1.1) prevention of seasonal affective disorder (SAD) ( 1.2) 1.1 Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD), as defined by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM). The efficacy of the immediate-release formulation of bupropion was established in two 4-week controlled inpatient trials and one 6-week controlled outpatient trial of adult patients with MDD. The efficacy of the sustained-release formulation of bupropion in the maintenance treatment of MDD was established in a long-term (up to 44 weeks), placebo-controlled trial in patients who had responded to bupropion in an 8-week study of acute treatment [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1.2 Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are indicated for the prevention of seasonal major depressive episodes in patients with a diagnosis of seasonal affective disorder (SAD). The efficacy of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets in the prevention of seasonal major depressive episodes was established in 3 placebo-controlled trials in adult outpatients with a history of MDD with an autumn-winter seasonal pattern as defined in the DSM [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are an aminoketone antidepressant, indicated for: • treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) ( 1.1 ) • prevention of seasonal affective disorder (SAD) ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD), as defined by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM). The efficacy of the sustained-release formulation of bupropion in the maintenance treatment of MDD was established in a long-term (up to 44 weeks), placebo-controlled trial in patients who had responded to bupropion in an 8-week study of acute treatment [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . 1.2 Seasonal Affective Disorde (SAD) Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are indicated for the prevention of seasonal major depressive episodes in patients with a diagnosis of seasonal affective disorder (SAD). The efficacy of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) in the prevention of seasonal major depressive episodes was established in 3 placebo-controlled trials in adult outpatients with a history of MDD with an autumn-winter seasonal pattern as defined in the DSM [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bupropion hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD), as defined by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM). The efficacy of bupropion hydrochloride tablets in the treatment of a major depressive episode was established in two 4-week controlled inpatient trials and one 6-week controlled outpatient trial of adult subjects with MDD [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . Bupropion hydrochloride tablets are an aminoketone antidepressant, indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD). ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablet (XL) is an aminoketone antidepressant, indicated for: treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) ( 1.1 ) prevention of seasonal affective disorder (SAD) ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD), as defined by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM). The efficacy of the sustained-release formulation of bupropion in the maintenance treatment of MDD was established in a long-term (up to 44 weeks), placebo-controlled trial in patients who had responded to bupropion in an 8-week study of acute treatment [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.1 )]. The efficacy of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) in the prevention of seasonal major depressive episodes was established in 3 placebo-controlled trials in adult outpatients with a history of MDD with an autumn-winter seasonal pattern as defined in the DSM [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.2 )]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are an aminoketone antidepressant, indicated for: treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) ( 1.1 ) prevention of seasonal affective disorder (SAD) ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD), as defined by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD), as defined by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM). The efficacy of bupropion in the treatment of a major depressive episode was established in two 4-week controlled inpatient trials and one 6-week controlled outpatient trial of adult subjects with MDD [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . The efficacy of Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) in maintaining an antidepressant response for up to 44 weeks following 8 weeks of acute treatment was demonstrated in a placebo-controlled trial [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) are an aminoketone antidepressant, indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD). The efficacy of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets in the prevention of seasonal major depressive episodes was established in 3 placebo-controlled trials in adult outpatients with a history of MDD with an autumn-winter seasonal pattern as defined in the DSM [see Clinical Studies (14.2 ) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are an aminoketone antidepressant, indicated for: • treatment of major de pressive disorder (MDD) ( 1.1 ) • prevention of seasonal affective disorder (SAD) ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD), as defined by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM).
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION General: Increase dose gradually to reduce seizure risk. ( 2.1 , 5.3 ) Periodically reassess the dose and need for maintenance treatment. ( 2.2 ) Major Depressive Disorder Starting dose: 150 mg once daily. Usual target dose: 300 mg once daily ( 2.2 ) After 4 days, may increase the dose to 300 mg once daily. ( 2.2 ) Seasonal Affective Disorder Initiate treatment in the autumn prior to onset of seasonal depressive symptoms. ( 2.3 ) Starting dose: 150 mg once daily. Usual target dose: 300 mg once daily. ( 2.3 ) After one week, may increase the dose to 300 mg once daily. ( 2.3 ) Continue treatment through the winter season. ( 2.3 ) Hepatic Impairment Moderate to severe hepatic impairment: 150 mg every other day ( 2.6 ) Mild hepatic impairment: Consider reducing the dose and/or frequency of dosing. ( 2.6 , 8.7 ) Renal Impairment Consider reducing the dose and/or frequency of dosing. ( 2.7 , 8.6 ) 2.1 General Instructions for Use To minimize the risk of seizure, increase the dose gradually [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) should be swallowed whole and not crushed, divided, or chewed. Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) should be administered in the morning and may be taken with or without food. 2.2 Dosage for Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) The recommended starting dose for MDD is 150 mg once daily in the morning. After 4 days of dosing, the dose may be increased to the target dose of 300 mg once daily in the morning. It is generally agreed that acute episodes of depression require several months or longer of antidepressant treatment beyond the response in the acute episode. It is unknown whether the bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) dose needed for maintenance treatment is identical to the dose that provided an initial response. Periodically reassess the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment. 2.3 Dosage for Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) The recommended starting dose for SAD is 150 mg once daily. After 7 days of dosing, the dose may be increased to the target dose of 300 mg once daily in the morning. Doses above 300 mg of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release were not assessed in the SAD trials. For the prevention of seasonal MDD episodes associated with SAD, initiate bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) in the autumn, prior to the onset of depressive symptoms. Continue treatment through the winter season. Taper and discontinue bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) in early spring. For patients treated with 300 mg per day, decrease the dose to 150 mg once daily before discontinuing bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL). Individualize the timing of initiation, and duration of treatment should be individualized, based on the patient’s historical pattern of seasonal MDD episodes. 2.4 Switching Patients from WELLBUTRIN ® Tablets or from WELLBUTRIN ® SR Sustained-Release Tablets When switching patients from WELLBUTRIN ® Tablets to bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) or from WELLBUTRIN ® SR Sustained-Release Tablets to bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL), give the same total daily dose when possible. 2.5 To Discontinue Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (XL), Taper the Dose When discontinuing treatment in patients treated with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) 300 mg once daily, decrease the dose to 150 mg once daily prior to discontinuation. 2.6 Dosage Adjustment in Patients with Hepatic Impairment In patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score: 7 to 15), the maximum dose is 150 mg every other day. In patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score: 5 to 6), consider reducing the dose and/or frequency of dosing [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.7 Dose Adjustment in Patients with Renal Impairment Consider reducing the dose and/or frequency of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets in patients with renal impairment (glomerular filtration rate less than 90 mL/min) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12 .3) ] . 2.8 Switching a Patient to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Antidepressant At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat depression and initiation of therapy with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL). Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7.6) ]. 2.9 Use of Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (XL) with Reversible MAOIs such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) in a patient who is being treated with a reversible MAOI such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. Drug interactions can increase risk of hypertensive reactions. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, non-pharmacological interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see Contraindications (4) ]. In some cases, a patient already receiving therapy with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of hypertensive reactions in a particular patient, bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. The patient should be monitored for 2 weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, whichever comes first. Therapy with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg per kg with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of a drug interaction with such use [see Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7.6) ]. ( 2.2 ) After 4 days, may increase the dose to 300 mg once daily. ( 2.3 ) Hepatic Impairment Moderate to severe hepatic impairment: 150 mg every other day. ( 2.6 ) Mild hepatic impairment: Consider reducing the dose and/or frequency of dosing. 2.4 Switching Patients from WELLBUTRIN Tablets or from WELLBUTRIN SR Sustained-Release Tablets When switching patients from WELLBUTRIN Tablets to bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) or from WELLBUTRIN SR Sustained-Release Tablets to bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL), give the same total daily dose when possible. 2.6 Dosage Adjustment in Patients with Hepatic Impairment In patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score: 7 to 15), the maximum dose is 150 mg every other day . 2.7 Dose Adjustment in Patients with Renal Impairment Consider reducing the dose and/or frequency of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) in patients with renal impairment (glomerular filtration rate less than 90 mL/min) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg per kg with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) is unclear. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Starting dose: 200 mg/day given as 100 mg twice daily (2.1 ) General: Increase dose gradually to reduce seizure risk. ( 2.1 , 5.3 ) After 3 days, may increase the dose to 300 mg/day, given as 100 mg 3 times daily at an interval of at least 6 hours between doses. ( 2.1 ) Usual target dose: 300 mg/day as 100 mg 3 times daily. ( 2.1 ) Maximum dose: 450 mg/day given as 150 mg 3 times daily. ( 2.1 ) Periodically reassess the dose and need for maintenance treatment. ( 2.1 ) Moderate to severe hepatic impairment: 75 mg once daily. (2.2 , 8.7 ) Mild hepatic impairment: Consider reducing the dose and/or frequency of dosing. ( 2.2, 8.7 ) Renal impairment: Consider reducing the dose and/or frequency. ( 2.3 , 8.6 ) 2.1 General Instructions for Use To minimize the risk of seizure, increase the dose gradually [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Increases in dose should not exceed 100 mg/day in a 3-day period. Bupropion hydrochloride Tablets should be swallowed whole and not crushed, divided, or chewed. Bupropion hydrochloride tablets may be taken with or without food. The recommended starting dose is 200 mg/day, given as 100 mg twice daily. After 3 days of dosing, the dose may be increased to 300 mg/day, given as 100 mg 3 times daily, with at least 6 hours between successive doses. Dosing above 300 mg/day may be accomplished using the 75 mg or 100 mg tablets. A maximum of 450 mg/day, given in divided doses of not more than 150 mg each, may be considered for patients who show no clinical improvement after several weeks of treatment at 300 mg/day. Administer the 100 mg tablet 4 times daily to not exceed the limit of 150 mg in a single dose. It is generally agreed that acute episodes of depression require several months or longer of antidepressant drug treatment beyond the response in the acute episode. It is unknown whether the dose of bupropion hydrochloride tablets needed for maintenance treatment is identical to the dose that provided an initial response. 2.2 Dose Adjustment in Patients with Hepatic Impairment In patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score: 7 to 15), the maximum dose of bupropion hydrochloride tablet is 75 mg/day. In patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score: 5 to 6), consider reducing the dose and/or frequency of dosing [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.3 Dose Adjustment in Patients with Renal Impairment Consider reducing the dose and/or frequency of bupropion hydrochloride tablets in patients with renal impairment (Glomerular Filtration Rate [GFR] less than 90 mL/min) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.4 Switching a Patient to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Antidepressant At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat depression and initiation of therapy with bupropion hydrochloride tablets. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping bupropion hydrochloride tablets before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications (4) , Drug Interactions (7.6) ] . 2.5 Use of Bupropion Hydrochloride Tablets with Reversible MAOIs Such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start bupropion hydrochloride tablets in a patient who is being treated with a reversible MAOI such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. Drug interactions can increase the risk of hypertensive reactions. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, non-pharmacological interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see Contraindications (4) , Drug Interactions (7.6) ] . In some cases, a patient already receiving therapy with bupropion hydrochloride tablets may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of hypertensive reactions in a particular patient, bupropion hydrochloride tablets should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. Therapy with bupropion hydrochloride tablets may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with bupropion hydrochloride tablet is unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of a drug interaction with such use [see Contraindications (4) , Drug Interactions (7.6) ] . ( 2.7 , 8.6 ) 2.1 General Instructions for Use To minimize the risk of seizure, increase the dose gradually [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.3 )]. Individualize the timing of initiation, and duration of treatment should be individualized, based on the patient's historical pattern of seasonal MDD episodes. 2.5 To Discontinue Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-release Tablets (XL), Taper the Dose When discontinuing treatment in patients treated with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL), 300 mg once daily, decrease the dose to 150 mg once daily prior to discontinuation. In patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score: 5 to 6), consider reducing the dose and/or frequency of dosing [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.7 ) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. 2.7 Dose Adjustment in Patients with Renal Impairment Consider reducing the dose and/or frequency of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) in patients with renal impairment (glomerular filtration rate less than 90 mL/min) [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.6 ) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ) and DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7.6 )]. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, non- pharmacological interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 )]. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of a drug interaction with such use [see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ) and DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7.6 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION General: • Increase dose gradually to reduce seizure risk. ( 2.1 , 5.3 ) • Periodically reassess the dose and need for maintenance treatment. ( 2.2 ) Major Depressive Disorder • Starting dose: 150 mg once daily. Usual target dose: 300 mg once daily ( 2.2 ) • After 4 days, may increase the dose to 300 mg once daily. ( 2.2 ) Seasonal Affective Disorder • Initiative treatment in the autumn prior to onset of seasonal depressive symptoms. ( 2.3 ) • Starting dose: 150 mg once daily. ( 2.3 ) • After one week, may increase the dose to 300 mg once daily. ( 2.3 ) • Continue treatment through the winter season. ( 2.3 ) Hepatic Impairment • Moderate to severe hepatic impairment: 150 mg every other day ( 2.6 ) • Mild hepatic impairment: Consider reducing the dose and/or frequency of dosing. ( 2.6 , 8.7 ) Renal Impairment • Consider reducing the dose and/or frequency of dosing. After 4 days of dosing, the dose may be increased to the target dose of 300 mg once daily in the morning . Periodically reassess the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment . Doses above 300 mg of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) were not assessed in the SAD trials. 2.4 Switching Patients from WELLBUTRIN Tablets (Bupropion Hydrochloride Tablets) or from WELLBUTRIN SR Sustained-Release Tablets (Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR)) When switching patients from WELLBUTRIN Tablets (bupropion hydrochloride tablets) to bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) or from WELLBUTRIN SR Sustained-Release Tablets (bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR)) to bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL), give the same total daily dose when possible. 2.5 To Discontinue Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (XL), Taper the Dose When discontinuing treatment in patients treated with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) 300 mg once daily, decrease the dose to 150 mg once daily prior to discontinuation . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Starting dose: 150 mg/day ( 2.1 ) General: Increase dose gradually to reduce seizure risk. ( 2.1 , 5.3 ) After 3 days, may increase the dose to 300 mg/day, given as 150 mg twice daily at an interval of at least 8 hours. ( 2.1 ) Usual target dose: 300 mg/day as 150 mg twice daily. ( 2.1 ) Maximum dose: 400 mg/day, given as 200 mg twice daily, for patients not responding to 300 mg/day. ( 2.1 ) Moderate to severe hepatic impairment: 100 mg daily or 150 mg every other day. ( 2.2 , 8.7 ) Mild hepatic impairment: Consider reducing the dose and/or frequency of dosing. ( 2.2 , 8.7 ) Renal impairment: Consider reducing the dose and/or frequency. ( 2.3 , 8.6 ) 2.1 General Instructions for Use To minimize the risk of seizure, increase the dose gradually [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) should be swallowed whole and not crushed, divided, or chewed. Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) may be taken with or without food. The usual adult target dose for bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) is 300 mg/day, given as 150 mg twice daily. Initiate dosing with 150 mg/day given as a single daily dose in the morning. After 3 days of dosing, the dose may be increased to the 300-mg/day target dose, given as 150 mg twice daily. There should be an interval of at least 8 hours between successive doses. A maximum of 400 mg/day, given as 200 mg twice daily, may be considered for patients in whom no clinical improvement is noted after several weeks of treatment at 300 mg/day. To avoid high peak concentrations of bupropion and/or its metabolites, do not exceed 200 mg in any single dose. It is unknown whether the dose of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) needed for maintenance treatment is identical to the dose that provided an initial response. 2.2 Dose Adjustment in Patients with Hepatic Impairment In patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score: 7 to 15), the maximum dose of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) is 100 mg/day or 150 mg every other day. In patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score: 5 to 6), consider reducing the dose and/or frequency of dosing [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.3 Dose Adjustment in Patients with Renal Impairment Consider reducing the dose and/or frequency of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) in patients with renal impairment (Glomerular Filtration Rate [GFR] less than 90 mL/min) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.4 Switching a Patient to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Antidepressant At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat depression and initiation of therapy with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR). Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.6 )] . 2.5 Use of Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) with Reversible MAOIs Such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) in a patient who is being treated with a reversible MAOI such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, non-pharmacological interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.6 )] . In some cases, a patient already receiving therapy with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of hypertensive reactions in a particular patient, bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. Therapy with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) is unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of a drug interaction with such use [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.6 )] . ( 2.2 ) Seasonal Affective Disorder • Initiate treatment in the autumn prior to onset of seasonal depressive symptoms. 2.4 Switching Patients from WELLBUTRIN Tablets (Bupropion Hydrochloride Tablets) or from WELLBUTRIN SR Sustained-Release Tablets (Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR)) When switching patients from WELLBUTRIN Tablets (bupropion hydrochloride tablets) to bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) or from WELLBUTRIN SR Sustained-Release Tablets (bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets(SR)) to bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL), give the same total daily dose when possible. 2.7 Dose Adjustment in Patients with Renal Impairment Consider reducing the dose and/or frequency of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) in patients with renal impairment (glomerular filtration rate less than 90 mL/min) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology(12.3) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION General • Increase dose gradually to reduce seizure risk. 2.4 Switching Patients from WELLBUTRIN Tablets (Bupropion Hydrochloride Tablets) or from WELLBUTRIN SR Sustained-Release Tablets (Bupropion Hydrochloride Sustained-Release Tablets (SR)) When switching patients from WELLBUTRIN tablets (bupropion hydrochloride tablets) to bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) or from WELLBUTRIN SR sustained-release tablets (bupropion hydrochloride sustained-release tablets (SR)) to bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL), give the same total daily dose when possible. 2.7 Dose Adjustment in Patients with Renal Impairment Consider reducing the dose and/or frequency of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) in patients with renal impairment (glomerular filtration rate less than 90 mL/min) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications (4 ) and Drug Interactions (7.6) ]. 2.4 Switching Patients from WELLBUTRIN (Bupropion Hydrochloride Tablets) or from WELLBUTRIN SR (Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR)) When switching patients from WELLBUTRIN (bupropion hydrochloride tablets) to bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) or from WELLBUTRIN SR (bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR)) to bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL), give the same total daily dose when possible. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION General Increase dose gradually to reduce seizure risk. 2.7 Dose Adjustment in Patients with Renal Impairment Consider reducing the dose and/or frequency of bupropion hydrochloride in patients with renal impairment (glomerular filtration rate less than 90 mL/min) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] .
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are contraindicated in patients with seizure disorder. Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are contraindicated in patients with a current or prior diagnosis of bulimia or anorexia nervosa as a higher incidence of seizures was observed in such patients treated with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are contraindicated in patients undergoing abrupt discontinuation of alcohol, benzodiazepines, barbiturates, and antiepileptic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Drug Interactions (7.3) ]. The use of MAOIs (intended to treat psychiatric disorders) concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) or within 14 days of discontinuing treatment with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) is contraindicated. There is an increased risk of hypertensive reactions when bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are used concomitantly with MAOIs. The use of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) within 14 days of discontinuing treatment with an MAOI is also contraindicated. Starting bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) in a patient treated with reversible MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.9) , Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Drug Interactions (7.6) ]. Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to bupropion or other ingredients of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL). Anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reactions and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Seizure disorder. ( 4 , 5.3 ) Current or prior diagnosis of bulimia or anorexia nervosa ( 4 , 5.3 ) Abrupt discontinuation of alcohol, benzodiazepines, barbiturates, antiepileptic drugs. ( 4 , 5.3 ) Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL). Do not use bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders. In addition, do not start bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. ( 4 , 7.6 ) Known hypersensitivity to bupropion or other ingredients of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) ( 4 , 5.8 ) Starting bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) in a patient treated with reversible MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.9) , Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Drug Interactions (7.6)] . ( 4 , 5.3 ) Current or prior diagnosis of bulimia or anorexia nervosa. ( 4 , 5.3 ) Abrupt discontinuation of alcohol, benzodiazepines, barbiturates, antiepileptic drugs. ( 4 , 7.6 ) Known hypersensitivity to bupropion or other ingredients of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL). ( 4 , 5.8 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Bupropion hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with a seizure disorder. Bupropion hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with a current or prior diagnosis of bulimia or anorexia nervosa as a higher incidence of seizures was observed in such patients treated with bupropion hydrochloride tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Bupropion hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients undergoing abrupt discontinuation of alcohol, benzodiazepines, barbiturates, and antiepileptic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Drug Interactions (7.3) ] . The use of MAOIs (intended to treat psychiatric disorders) concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride tablets or within 14 days of discontinuing treatment with bupropion hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated. There is an increased risk of hypertensive reactions when bupropion hydrochloride tablets are used concomitantly with MAOIs. The use of bupropion hydrochloride tablets within 14 days of discontinuing treatment with an MAOI is also contraindicated. Starting bupropion hydrochloride tablets in a patient treated with reversible MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.4 , 2.5) , Warnings and Precautions (5.4) , Drug Interactions (7.6) ]. Bupropion hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to bupropion or other ingredients of bupropion hydrochloride tablets. ( 4 , 5.3 ) Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with bupropion hydrochloride tablets or within 14 days of stopping treatment with bupropion hydrochloride tablets. Do not use bupropion hydrochloride tablets within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders. In addition, do not start bupropion hydrochloride tablets in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. ( 4 , 7.6 ) Known hypersensitivity to bupropion or other ingredients of bupropion hydrochloride tablets. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Seizure disorder. ( 4 , 7.6 ) Known hypersensitivity to bupropion or other ingredients of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) ( 4 , 5.8 ) Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are contraindicated in patients with seizure disorder. Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are contraindicated in patients with seizure disorder. Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are contraindicated in patients with a current or prior diagnosis of bulimia or anorexia nervosa as a higher incidence of seizures was observed in such patients treated with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.3 )]. Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are contraindicated in patients undergoing abrupt discontinuation of alcohol, benzodiazepines, barbiturates, and antiepileptic drugs [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.3 ) and DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7.3 )]. The use of MAOIs (intended to treat psychiatric disorders) concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) or within 14 days of discontinuing treatment with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are contraindicated. Starting bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) in a patient treated with reversible MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is contraindicated [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2.9 ), WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.4 ) and DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7.6 )]. Anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reactions and Stevens-Johnson syndrome have been reported [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.8 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) are contraindicated in patients with a seizure disorder. Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) are contraindicated in patients with a current or prior diagnosis of bulimia or anorexia nervosa as a higher incidence of seizures was observed in such patients treated with the immediate-release formulation of bupropion [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) are contraindicated in patients undergoing abrupt discontinuation of alcohol, benzodiazepines, barbiturates, and antiepileptic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.3 )] . The use of MAOIs (intended to treat psychiatric disorders) concomitantly with Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) or within 14 days of discontinuing treatment with Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) is contraindicated. There is an increased risk of hypertensive reactions when Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) are used concomitantly with MAOIs. The use of Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) within 14 days of discontinuing treatment with an MAOI is also contraindicated. Starting Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) in a patient treated with reversible MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 , 2.5 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.6 )] . Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to bupropion or other ingredients of Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR). Anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reactions and Stevens-Johnson syndrome have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . ( 4 , 5.3 ) Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR). Do not use Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders. In addition, do not start Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. ( 4 , 7.6 ) Known hypersensitivity to bupropion or other ingredients of Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) ( 4 , 5.8 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are contraindicated in patients with seizure disorder. • Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are contraindicated in patients with a current or prior diagnosis of bulimia or anorexia nervosa as a higher incidence of seizures was observed in such patients treated with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. • Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are contraindicated in patients undergoing abrupt discontinuation of alcohol, benzodiazepines, barbiturates, and antiepileptic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Drug Interactions (7.3) ] . • The use of MAOIs (intended to treat psychiatric disorders) concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) or within 14 days of discontinuing treatment with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are contraindicated. • Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to bupropion or other ingredients of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL). • Seizure disorder. ( 4 , 5.3 ) • Current or prior diagnosis of bulimia or anorexia nervosa. ( 4 , 5.3 ) • Abrupt discontinuation of alcohol, benzodiazepines, barbiturates, antiepileptic drugs. ( 4 , 5.3 ) • Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) or within 14 days of stopping treatment with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL). ( 4 , 7.6 ) • Known hypersensitivity to bupropion or other ingredients of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) ( 4 , 5.8 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP2B6 inducers: Dose increase may be necessary if coadministered with CYP2B6 inducers (e.g., ritonavir, lopinavir, efavirenz, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, and phenytoin) based on clinical exposure, but should not exceed the maximum recommended dose. ( 7.1 ) Drugs metabolized by CYP2D6: Bupropion inhibits CYP2D6 and can increase concentrations of: antidepressants (e.g., venlafaxine, nortriptyline, imipramine, desipramine, paroxetine, fluoxetine, sertraline), antipsychotics (e.g., haloperidol, risperidone, thioridazine), beta-blockers (e.g., metoprolol), and Type 1C antiarrhythmics (e.g., propafenone, flecainide). Consider dose reduction when using with bupropion. ( 7.2 ) Drugs that lower seizure threshold: Dose bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) with caution. ( 5.3 , 7.3 ) Dopaminergic Drugs (levodopa and amantadine): CNS toxicity can occur when used concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL). ( 7.4 ) MAOIs: Increased risk of hypertensive reactions can occur when used concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL). ( 7.6 ) Drug-laboratory test interactions: Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) can cause false-positive urine test results for amphetamines. ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (XL) Bupropion is primarily metabolized to hydroxybupropion by CYP2B6. Therefore, the potential exists for drug interactions between bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) and drugs that are inhibitors or inducers of CYP2B6. Inhibitors of CYP2B6 Ticlopidine and Clopidogrel: Concomitant treatment with these drugs can increase bupropion exposures but decrease hydroxybupropion exposure. Based on clinical response, dosage adjustment of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) may be necessary when coadministered with CYP2B6 inhibitors (e.g., ticlopidine or clopidogrel) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Inducers of CYP2B6 Ritonavir, Lopinavir, and Efavirenz: Concomitant treatment with these drugs can decrease bupropion and hydroxybupropion exposure. Dosage increase of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) may be necessary when coadministered with ritonavir, lopinavir, or efavirenz but should not exceed the maximum recommended dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Carbamazepine, Phenobarbital, Phenytoin: While not systemically studied, these drugs may induce metabolism of bupropion and may decrease bupropion exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. If bupropion is used concomitantly with a CYP inducer, it may be necessary to increase the dose of bupropion, but the maximum recommended dose should not be exceeded. 7.2 Potential for Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (XL) to Affect Other Drugs Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Bupropion and its metabolites (erythrohydrobupropion, threohydrobupropion, hydroxybupropion) are CYP2D6 inhibitors. Therefore, coadministration of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) with drugs that are metabolized by CYP2D6 can increase the exposures of drugs that are substrates of CYP2D6. Such drugs include certain antidepressants (e.g., venlafaxine, nortriptyline, imipramine, desipramine, paroxetine, fluoxetine, and sertraline), antipsychotics (e.g., haloperidol, risperidone, and thioridazine), beta-blockers (e.g., metoprolol), and Type 1C antiarrhythmics (e.g., propafenone, and flecainide). When used concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL), it may be necessary to decrease the dose of these CYP2D6 substrates, particularly for drugs with a narrow therapeutic index. Drugs that require metabolic activation by CYP2D6 to be effective (e.g., tamoxifen), theoretically could have reduced efficacy when administered concomitantly with inhibitors of CYP2D6 such as bupropion. Patients treated concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) and such drugs may require increased doses of the drug [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.3 Drugs That Lower Seizure Threshold Use extreme caution when coadministering bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) with other drugs that lower the seizure threshold (e.g., other bupropion products, antipsychotics, antidepressants, theophylline, or systemic corticosteroids). Use low initial doses of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) and increase the dose gradually [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. 7.4 Dopaminergic Drugs (Levodopa and Amantadine) Bupropion, levodopa, and amantadine have dopamine agonist effects. CNS toxicity has been reported when bupropion was coadministered with levodopa or amantadine. Adverse reactions have included restlessness, agitation, tremor, ataxia, gait disturbance, vertigo, and dizziness. It is presumed that the toxicity results from cumulative dopamine agonist effects. Use caution when administering bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) concomitantly with these drugs. 7.5 Use with Alcohol In postmarketing experience, there have been rare reports of adverse neuropsychiatric events or reduced alcohol tolerance in patients who were drinking alcohol during treatment with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL). The consumption of alcohol during treatment with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) should be minimized or avoided 7.6 MAO Inhibitors Bupropion inhibits the reuptake of dopamine and norepinephrine. Concomitant use of MAOIs and bupropion is contraindicated because there is an increased risk of hypertensive reactions if bupropion is used concomitantly with MAOIs. Studies in animals demonstrate that the acute toxicity of bupropion is enhanced by the MAO inhibitor phenelzine. At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat depression and initiation of treatment with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL). Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.8 , 2.9 ) and Contraindications (4) ]. 7.7 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions False-positive urine immunoassay screening tests for amphetamines have been reported in patients taking bupropion. This is due to lack of specificity of some screening tests. False-positive test results may result even following discontinuation of bupropion therapy. Confirmatory tests, such as gas chromatography/mass spectrometry, will distinguish bupropion from amphetamines. Carbamazepine, Phenobarbital, Phenytoin: While not systemically studied, these drugs may induce metabolism of bupropion and may decrease bupropion exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The consumption of alcohol during treatment with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) should be minimized or avoided. 7.6 MAO Inhibitors Bupropion inhibits the reuptake of dopamine and norepinephrine. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP2B6 inducers: Dose increase may be necessary if co-administered with CYP2B6 inducers (e.g., ritonavir, lopinavir, efavirenz, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, and phenytoin) based on clinical response, but should not exceed the maximum recommended dose. ( 7.2 ) Digoxin: May decrease plasma digoxin levels. Monitor digoxin levels. ( 7.2 ) Drugs that lower seizure threshold: Dose bupropion hydrochloride tablets with caution. ( 5.3 , 7.3 ) Dopaminergic drugs (levodopa and amantadine): CNS toxicity can occur when used concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride tablets. ( 7.4 ) MAOIs: Increased risk of hypertensive reactions can occur when used concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride tablets. ( 7.6 ) Drug-laboratory test interactions: Bupropion hydrochloride tablets can cause false-positive urine test results for amphetamines. ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Bupropion Hydrochloride Tablets Bupropion is primarily metabolized to hydroxybupropion by CYP2B6. Therefore, the potential exists for drug interactions between bupropion hydrochloride tablets and drugs that are inhibitors or inducers of CYP2B6. Inhibitors of CYP2B6 Ticlopidine and Clopidogrel: Concomitant treatment with these drugs can increase bupropion exposure but decrease hydroxybupropion exposure. Based on clinical response, dosage adjustment of bupropion hydrochloride tablets may be necessary when co-administered with CYP2B6 inhibitors (e.g., ticlopidine or clopidogrel) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Dosage increase of bupropion hydrochloride tablets may be necessary when co-administered with ritonavir, lopinavir, or efavirenz [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] but should not exceed the maximum recommended dose. Carbamazepine, Phenobarbital, Phenytoin: While not systematically studied, these drugs may induce the metabolism of bupropion and may decrease bupropion exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.2 Potential for Bupropion Hydrochloride Tablets to Affect Other Drugs Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Bupropion and its metabolites (erythrohydrobupropion, threohydrobupropion, hydroxybupropion) are CYP2D6 inhibitors. Therefore, co-administration of bupropion hydrochloride tablets with drugs that are metabolized by CYP2D6 can increase the exposures of drugs that are substrates of CYP2D6. Such drugs include certain antidepressants (e.g., venlafaxine, nortriptyline, imipramine, desipramine, paroxetine, fluoxetine, and sertraline), antipsychotics (e.g., haloperidol, risperidone, thioridazine), beta-blockers (e.g., metoprolol), and Type 1C antiarrhythmics (e.g., propafenone and flecainide). When used concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride tablets, it may be necessary to decrease the dose of these CYP2D6 substrates, particularly for drugs with a narrow therapeutic index. Drugs that require metabolic activation by CYP2D6 to be effective (e.g., tamoxifen) theoretically could have reduced efficacy when administered concomitantly with inhibitors of CYP2D6 such as bupropion. Patients treated concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride tablets and such drugs may require increased doses of the drug [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Digoxin Co-administration of bupropion hydrochloride tablets with digoxin may decrease plasma digoxin levels. Monitor plasma digoxin levels in patients treated concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride tablets and digoxin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.3 Drugs that Lower Seizure Threshold Use extreme caution when co-administering bupropion hydrochloride tablets with other drugs that lower seizure threshold (e.g., other bupropion products, antipsychotics, antidepressants, theophylline, or systemic corticosteroids). Use low initial doses and increase the dose gradually [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . CNS toxicity has been reported when bupropion was co-administered with levodopa or amantadine. Use caution when administering bupropion hydrochloride tablets concomitantly with these drugs. 7.5 Use with Alcohol In postmarketing experience, there have been rare reports of adverse neuropsychiatric events or reduced alcohol tolerance in patients who were drinking alcohol during treatment with bupropion hydrochloride tablets. The consumption of alcohol during treatment with bupropion hydrochloride tablets should be minimized or avoided. At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat depression and initiation of treatment with bupropion hydrochloride tablets. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping bupropion hydrochloride tablets before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Dosage and Administration (2.4 , 2.5) , Contraindications (4) ] . ( 5.3 , 7.3) Dopaminergic Drugs (levodopa and amantadine): CNS toxicity can occur when used concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL). Based on clinical response, dosage adjustment of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) may be necessary when coadministered with CYP2B6 inhibitors (e.g., ticlopidine or clopidogrel) [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. Dosage increase of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) may be necessary when coadministered with ritonavir, lopinavir, or efavirenz but should not exceed the maximum recommended dose [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. Carbamazepine, Phenobarbital, Phenytoin: While not systemically studied, these drugs may induce metabolism of bupropion and may decrease bupropion exposure [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. 7.2 Potential for Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-release Tablets XL to Affect Other Drugs Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Bupropion and its metabolites (erythrohydrobupropion, threohydrobupropion, hydroxybupropion) are CYP2D6 inhibitors. Patients treated concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) and such drugs may require increased doses of the drug [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. Use low initial doses of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) and increase the dose gradually [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.3 )]. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2.8 , 2.9 ) and CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 )]. Based on clinical response, dosage adjustment of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) may be necessary when coadministered with CYP2B6 inhibitors (e.g., ticlopidine or clopidogrel) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Inducers of CYP2B6 Ritonavir, Lopinavir, and Efavirenz : Concomitant treatment with these drugs can decrease bupropion and hydroxybupropion exposure. Such drugs include certain antidepressants (e.g., venlafaxine, nortriptyline, imipramine, desipramine, paroxetine, fluoxetine, and sertraline), antipsychotics (e.g. haloperidol, risperidone, and thioridazine), beta-blockers (e.g., metoprolol), and Type 1C antiarrhythmics (e.g. propafenone, and flecainide). Patients treated concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) and such drugs may require increased doses of the drug [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Use low initial doses of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) and increase the dose gradually [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Use caution when administering bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) concomitantly with these drugs . 7.5 Use with Alcohol In post-marketing experience, there have been rare reports of adverse neuropsychiatric events or reduced alcohol tolerance in patients who were drinking alcohol during treatment with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL). The consumption of alcohol during treatment with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) should be minimized or avoided . Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) before starting an MAOI antidepressant [ see Dosage and Administration (2.8 , 2.9) and Contraindications (4) ] . Confirmatory tests, such as gas chromatography/mass spectrometry, will distinguish bupropion from amphetamines . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP2B6 inducers: Dose increase may be necessary if coadministered with CYP2B6 inducers (e.g., ritonavir, lopinavir, efavirenz, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, and phenytoin) based on clinical response, but should not exceed the maximum recommended dose. ( 7.2 ) Drugs that lower seizure threshold: Dose bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) with caution. ( 5.3 , 7.3 ) Dopaminergic drugs (levodopa and amantadine): CNS toxicity can occur when used concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR). ( 7.4 ) MAOIs: Increased risk of hypertensive reactions can occur when used concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR). ( 7.6 ) Drug-laboratory test interactions: Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) can cause false-positive urine test results for amphetamines. ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) Bupropion is primarily metabolized to hydroxybupropion by CYP2B6. Therefore, the potential exists for drug interactions between bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) and drugs that are inhibitors or inducers of CYP2B6. Inhibitors of CYP2B6 Ticlopidine and Clopidogrel : Concomitant treatment with these drugs can increase bupropion exposure but decrease hydroxybupropion exposure. Based on clinical response, dosage adjustment of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) may be necessary when coadministered with CYP2B6 inhibitors (e.g., ticlopidine or clopidogrel) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Dosage increase of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) may be necessary when coadministered with ritonavir, lopinavir, or efavirenz [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] but should not exceed the maximum recommended dose. Carbamazepine, Phenobarbital, Phenytoin: While not systematically studied, these drugs may induce the metabolism of bupropion and may decrease bupropion exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.2 Potential for Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets (SR) to Affect Other Drugs Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Bupropion and its metabolites (erythrohydrobupropion, threohydrobupropion, hydroxybupropion) are CYP2D6 inhibitors. Therefore, coadministration of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) with drugs that are metabolized by CYP2D6 can increase the exposures of drugs that are substrates of CYP2D6. When used concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR), it may be necessary to decrease the dose of these CYP2D6 substrates, particularly for drugs with a narrow therapeutic index. Patients treated concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) and such drugs may require increased doses of the drug [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Digoxin Coadministration of bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) with digoxin may decrease plasma digoxin levels. Monitor plasma digoxin levels in patients treated concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) and digoxin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.3 Drugs that Lower Seizure Threshold Use extreme caution when coadministering bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) with other drugs that lower seizure threshold (e.g., other bupropion products, antipsychotics, antidepressants, theophylline, or systemic corticosteroids). Use low initial doses and increase the dose gradually [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Use caution when administering bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) concomitantly with these drugs. 7.5 Use with Alcohol In postmarketing experience, there have been rare reports of adverse neuropsychiatric events or reduced alcohol tolerance in patients who were drinking alcohol during treatment with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR). The consumption of alcohol during treatment with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) should be minimized or avoided. At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat depression and initiation of treatment with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR). Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (SR) before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 , 2.5 ), Contraindications ( 4 )] . Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Dosage and Administration (2.8 , 2.9) and Contraindications (4) ]. ( 7.1 ) • Drugs metabolized by CYP2D6: Bupropion inhibits CYP2D6 and can increase concentrations of: antidepressants (e.g., venlafaxine, nortriptyline, imipramine, desipramine, paroxetine, fluoxetine, sertraline), antipsychotics (e.g., haloperidol, risperidone, thioridazine), beta-blockers (e.g., metoprolol), and Type 1C antiarrhythmics (e.g., propafenone, flecainide). ( 7.2 ) • Drugs that lower seizure threshold: Dose bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) with caution. ( 5.3 , 7.3 ) • Dopaminergic Drugs (levodopa and amantadine): CNS toxicity can occur when used concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL). ( 7.4 ) • MAOIs: Increased risk of hypertensive reactions can occur when used concomitantly with bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL). ( 7.6 ) • Drug-laboratory test interactions: Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) can cause false-positive urine test results for amphetamines. ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Bupropion Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets, (XL) Bupropion is primarily metabolized to hydroxybupropion by CYP2B6. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Dosage and Administration (2.8, 2.9 ) and Contraindications (4) ]. ( 7.6 ) Drug-laboratory test interactions: Bupropion hydrochloride extended-release tablets (XL) can cause false- positive urine test results for amphetamines.

=== SIMETHICONE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antigas Purpose Antiflatulent (Antigas) PURPOSES Anti-diarrheal Anti-gas Purpose Antacid Antacid Antigas Purpose Anti-gas
Indications: Uses For the relief of pressure and bloating commonly referred to as gas Uses for the relief of pressure, bloating, and fullness commonly referred to as gas Uses relieves bloating, pressure, or fullness commonly referred to as gas USE(S) relieves: pressure bloating symptoms referred to as gas USE(S) relieves symptoms of diarrhea plus bloating, pressure and cramps, commonly referred to as gas Uses relieves: heartburn acid indigestion pressure, bloating and discomfort commonly referred to as gas Uses for relief of pressure, bloating and fullness commonly referred to as gas. Uses • relieves bloating, pressure or fullness commonly referred to as gas Use for the relief of pressure, bloating, and fullness commonly referred to as gas
Dosage: Directions adults: swallow with water 1 or 2 softgels as needed after meals and at bedtime do not exceed 2 softgels in 24 hours except under the advice and supervision of a physician Directions adults: swallow with water 1 or 2 softgels as needed after meals and at bedtime do not exceed 2 softgels in 24 hours except under the advice and supervision of a physican Directions swalow one or two softgels as needed after a meal do not exceed two softgels per day except under the advice and supervision of a physician DIRECTIONS chew 2 to 4 tablets thoroughly as needed after meals and at bedtime do not exceed 6 tablets per day unless directed by a physician Directions adults : swallow with water 1 or 2 softgels as needed after meals and at bedtime do not exceed 4 softgels in 24 hours except under the advise and supervision of a physician DIRECTIONS • drink plenty of clear fluids to help prevent dehydration caused by diarrhea • take only on an empty stomach (1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal) • take with a full (8 oz.) glass of water • find right dose on chart below. If possible, use weight to dose; otherwise, use age. adults and children 12 years and over 2 tablets after the first loose stool; 1 tablet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 4 tablets in 24 hours children 9-11 years (60-95 lbs) 1 tablet after the first loose stool; 1/2 tablet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 3 tablets in 24 hours children 6-8 years (48-59 lbs) 1 tablet after the first loose stool; 1/2 tablet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 2 tablets in 24 hours children 2-5 years (34 to 47 lbs) ask a doctor children under 2 years (up to 33 lbs) do not use Directions chew 2-4 tablets completely as symptoms occur or as directed by a doctor. Do not swallow tablets whole. Directions adults: chew 1 or 2 tablets as needed after meals and at bedtime do not exceed 4 tablets in 24 hours except under the advice and supervision of a physician. Directions • swallow one or two softgels as symptoms occur • do not exceed two softgels per 24 hours except under the advice and supervision of a physician Directions adults and children 12 years and older: swallow with water 1 or 2 softgels as needed after meals and at bedtime do not exceed 2 softgels in 24 hours except under the advice and supervision of a physician
Warnings: Warnings If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. Warnings Stop use and ask a doctor if condition persists. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. WARNINGS . WARNINGS Allergy alert: Do not use if you have ever had a rash or other allergic reaction to loperamide hydrochloride Heart alert: Taking more than directed can cause serious heart problems or death Warnings Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are now taking a prescription drug. Antacids may interact with certain prescription drugs. When using this product Do not take more than 8 tablets in a 24-hour period Do not use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks Keep out of reach of children. Warning Keep Out of Reach of Children Warnings Stop use and ask a doctor if condition persists If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children. Overdose warning : In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Prompt medical attention is critical for adults as well as children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. Warning Keep out of reach of children.

=== ALUMINUM CHLOROHYDRATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antiperspirant
Indications: Use reduces underarm wetness Use Reduces underarm wetness. Uses reduces underarm wetness
Dosage: Directions • apply to underarms only • hold can about 6 inches away from underarm and spray. Directions Apply to underarms only. Directions apply to underarms only
Warnings: Warnings For external use only. Flammable • do not spray near flame or while smoking • contents under pressure • do not crush, puncture or incinerate • do not store at temperature above 120°F Do not use on broken skin Ask a doctor before use if you have kidney disease When using this product • keep away from face and mouth to avoid breathing it • avoid spraying in eyes • use only as directed; intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal Stop use if rash or irritation occurs Keep out of reach of children. lf swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have kidney disease. Stop use if rash or irritation occurs. Keep Out of Reach of Children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. Use only as directed. Warnings • FLAMMABLE. DO NOT USE NEAR HEAT, FLAME, OR WHILE SMOKING. CAN CAUSE SERIOUS INJURY OR DEATH • Keep away from face and mouth to avoid breathing in. • Avoid spraying in eyes. Contents under pressure. Do not puncture or incinerate. Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120°F/50°C or in enclosed places that could overheat • Do not use on broken skin. • Ask a doctor before using if you have kidney disease. • USE ONLY AS DIRECTED. INTENTIONAL MISUSE BY DELIBERATELY CONCENTRATING AND INHALING THE CONTENTS CAN BE HARMFUL OR FATAL. Help stop inhalation abuse. For information visit www.inhalant.org

=== MINOXIDIL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Hair regrowth treatment for men PURPOSE Hair regrowth treatment for men and women 1 Bottle Carton Purpose Hair regrowth treatment for men 3 Bottle Carton Purpose Hair regrowth treatment Purpose Hair regrowth treatment
Indications: Use to regrow hair on the top of the scalp (vertex only, see pictures on side of carton) USE To regrow hair the scalp INDICATIONS AND USAGE Because of the potential for serious adverse effects, minoxidil tablets are indicated only in the treatment of hypertension that is symptomatic or associated with target organ damage and is not manageable with maximum therapeutic doses of a diuretic plus two other antihypertensive drugs. At the present time use in milder degrees of hypertension is not recommended because the benefit-risk relationship in such patients has not been defined. Minoxidil reduced supine diastolic blood pressure by 20 mm Hg or to 90 mm Hg or less in approximately 75% of patients, most of who had hypertension that could not be controlled by other drugs. 1 Bottle Carton Use to regrow hair on the scalp (vertex only, see picture on side of carton) 3 Bottle Carton Use to regrow hair on the scalp (vertex only, see picture on side of carton) Use to regrow hair Use to regrow hair on the top of the scalp (vertex only, see pictures on side of this carton)
Dosage: Directions • apply one mL with dropper 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area • using more or more often will not improve results • continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth, or hair loss will begin again Directions apply half a capful 2 times a day to the scalp in the hair loss area massage into scalp with fingers, then wash hands. using more or more often will not improve results. continued use is necessary to increase and maintain your hair regrowth or hair loss will begin again DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Patients over 12 years of age: The recommended initial dosage of minoxidil tablets is 5 mg of minoxidil given as a single daily dose. Daily dosage can be increased to 10, 20 and then to 40 mg in single or divided doses if required for optimum blood pressure control. The effective dosage range is usually 10 to 40 mg per day. The maximum recommended dosage is 100 mg per day. Patients under 12 years of age: The initial dosage is 0.2 mg/kg minoxidil as a single daily dose. The dosage may be increased in 50 to 100% increments until optimum blood pressure control is achieved. The effective dosage range is usually 0.25 mg to 1 mg/kg/day. The maximum recommended dosage is 50 mg daily ( see 9. Pediatric Use under PRECAUTIONS ). Dose frequency: The magnitude of within-day fluctuation of arterial pressure during therapy with minoxidil is directly proportional to the extent of pressure reduction. If supine diastolic pressure has been reduced less than 30 mm Hg, the drug need be administered only once a day; if supine diastolic pressure has been reduced more than 30 mm Hg, the daily dosage should be divided into two equal parts. Frequency of dosage adjustment: Dosage must be titrated carefully according to individual response. Intervals between dosage adjustments normally should be at least 3 days since the full response to a given dose is not obtained for at least that amount of time. Where a more rapid management of hypertension is required, dose adjustments can be made every 6 hours if the patient is carefully monitored. Concomitant therapy: Diuretic and beta-blocker or other sympathetic nervous system suppressant. Diuretics: Minoxidil must be used in conjunction with a diuretic in patients relying on renal function for maintaining salt and water balance. Diuretics have been used at the following dosages when starting therapy with minoxidil: hydrochlorothiazide (50 mg, b.i.d.) or other thiazides at equieffective dosage; chlorthalidone (50 to 100 mg, once daily); furosemide (40 mg, b.i.d.). If excessive salt and water retention results in a weight gain of more than 5 pounds, diuretic therapy should be changed to furosemide; if the patient is already taking furosemide, dosage should be increased in accordance with the patient's requirements. Beta-blocker or other sympathetic nervous system suppressants: When therapy with minoxidil is begun, the dosage of a beta-adrenergic receptor blocking drug should be the equivalent of 80 to 160 mg of propranolol per day in divided doses. If beta-blockers are contraindicated, methyldopa (250 to 750 mg, b.i.d.) may be used instead. Methyldopa must be given for at least 24 hours before starting therapy with minoxidil because of the delay in the onset of methyldopa's action. Limited clinical experience indicates that clonidine may also be used to prevent tachycardia induced by minoxidil; the usual dosage is 0.1 to 0.2 mg twice daily. Sympathetic nervous system suppressants may not completely prevent an increase in heart rate due to minoxidil but usually do prevent tachycardia. Typically, patients receiving a beta-blocker prior to initiation of therapy with minoxidil have a bradycardia and can be expected to have an increase in heart rate toward normal when minoxidil is added. When treatment with minoxidil and beta-blocker or other sympathetic nervous system suppressant are begun simultaneously, their opposing cardiac effects usually nullify each other, leading to little change in heart rate. Directions Prime the sprayer by holding the bottle the bottle upright and pump the sprayer 5 times to ensure delivery of full spray. Do not inhale mist Apply one mL with spray (6 sprays) 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area Using more or more often will not improve restuls Continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth, or hair loss will begind again. Directions apply half a capful 2 times a day to the scalp in the hair loss area massage into scalp with fingers, then wash hands well see enclosed leaflet for complete directions on how to use using more or more often will not improve results continued use is necessary to increase and keep your regrowth, or hair loss will begin again Directions Men: Apply half a capful 2 times a day to the hair loss area. Women: Apply half a capful 1 time a day to the hair loss area. Massage to area with fingers, then wash hands well. Using more and more often will not improve results. Directions • apply half a capful 2 times a day to the scalp in the hair loss area • massage into scalp with fingers, then wash hands well • see enclosed leaflet for complete directions on how to use • using more or more often will not improve results • continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth or hair loss will begin again DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Patients over 12 years of age: The recommended initial dosage of minoxidil tablets is 5 mg given as a single daily dose. Daily dosage can be increased to 10 mg, 20 mg and then to 40 mg in single or divided doses if required for optimum blood pressure control. The effective dosage range is usually 10 mg to 40 mg per day. The effective dosage range is usually 0.25 to 1.0 mg/kg/day. The maximum recommended dosage is 50 mg daily (see 9 . If supine diastolic pressure has been reduced less than 30 mmHg, the drug need be administered only once a day; if supine diastolic pressure has been reduced more than 30 mmHg, the daily dosage should be divided into two equal parts. Diuretics have been used at the following dosages when starting therapy with minoxidil: hydrochlorothiazide (50 mg, b.i.d.) or other thiazides at equi-effective dosage; chlorthalidone (50 mg to 100 mg, once daily); furosemide (40 mg, b.i.d.). If excessive salt and water retention results in a weight gain of more than 5 pounds, diuretic therapy should be changed to furosemide; if the patient is already taking furosemide, dosage should be increased in accordance with the patient’s requirements. Beta-blocker or other sympathetic nervous system suppressants: When therapy with minoxidil is begun, the dosage of a beta-adrenergic receptor blocking drug should be the equivalent of 80 mg to 160 mg of propranolol per day in divided doses. If beta-blockers are contraindicated, methyldopa (250 mg to 750 mg, b.i.d.) may be used instead. Methyldopa must be given for at least 24 hours before starting therapy with minoxidil because of the delay in the onset of methyldopa’s action. Limited clinical experience indicates that clonidine may also be used to prevent tachycardia induced by minoxidil; the usual dosage is 0.1 mg to 0.2 mg twice daily.
Warnings: Warnings For external use only. For use by men only. Flammable: Keep away from fire or flame Do not use if • you are a woman • your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on the side of this carton or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp. Minoxidil topical solution 5% is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline. • you have no family history of hair loss • your hair loss is sudden and/or patchy • you do not know the reason for your hair loss • you are under 18 years of age. Do not use on babies and children. • your scalp is red, inflamed, infected, irritated, or painful • you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product • do not apply on other parts of the body • avoid contact with the eyes. In case of accidental contact, rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water. • some people have experienced changes in hair color and/or texture • it takes time to regrow hair. Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage. For some men, you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results. • the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person. This product will not work for all men. Stop use and ask a doctor if • chest pain, rapid heartbeat, faintness, or dizziness occurs • sudden, unexplained weight gain occurs • your hands or feet swell • scalp irritation or redness occurs • unwanted facial hair growth occurs • you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast-feeding. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222) Extremely Flammable: Avoid Fire, flame, or smoking during and immediately following application. WARNINGS 1. Salt and Water Retention Congestive Heart Failure — concomitant use of an adequate diuretic is required — Minoxidil tablets must usually be administered concomitantly with a diuretic adequate to prevent fluid retention and possible congestive heart failure; a high ceiling (loop) diuretic is almost always required. Body weight should be monitored closely. If minoxidil is used without a diuretic, retention of several hundred milliequivalents of salt and corresponding volumes of water can occur within a few days, leading to increased plasma and interstitial fluid volume and local or generalized edema. Diuretic treatment alone, or in combination with restricted salt intake, will usually minimize fluid retention, although reversible edema did develop in approximately 10% of nondialysis patients so treated. Ascites has also been reported. Diuretic effectiveness was limited mostly by disease-related impaired renal function. The condition of patients with pre-existing congestive heart failure occasionally deteriorated in association with fluid retention although because of the fall in blood pressure (reduction of afterload), more than twice as many improved than worsened. Rarely, refractory fluid retention may require discontinuation of minoxidil. Provided that the patient is under close medical supervision, it may be possible to resolve refractory salt retention by discontinuing minoxidil for 1 or 2 days and then resuming treatment in conjunction with vigorous diuretic therapy. 2. Concomitant Treatment to Prevent Tachycardia is Usually Required Minoxidil increases the heart rate. Angina may worsen or appear for the first time during minoxidil treatment, probably because of the increased oxygen demands associated with increased heart rate and cardiac output. The increase in rate and the occurrence of angina generally can be prevented by the concomitant administration of a beta-adrenergic blocking drug or other sympathetic nervous system suppressant. The ability of beta-adrenergic blocking agents to minimize papillary muscle lesions in animals is further reason to utilize such an agent concomitantly. Round-the-clock effectiveness of the sympathetic suppressant should be ensured. 3. Pericarditis, Pericardial Effusion and Tamponade There have been reports of pericarditis occurring in association with the use of minoxidil. The relationship of this association to renal status is uncertain. Pericardial effusion, occasionally with tamponade, has been observed in about 3% of treated patients not on dialysis, especially those with inadequate or compromised renal function. Although in many cases, the pericardial effusion was associated with a connective tissue disease, the uremic syndrome, congestive heart failure, or marked fluid retention, there have been instances in which these potential causes of effusion were not present. Patients should be observed closely for any suggestion of a pericardial disorder, and echocardiographic studies should be carried out if suspicion arises. More vigorous diuretic therapy, dialysis, pericardiocentesis, or surgery may be required. If the effusion persists, withdrawal of minoxidil should be considered in light of other means of controlling the hypertension and the patient's clinical status. 4. Interaction with Guanethidine Although minoxidil does not itself cause orthostatic hypotension, its administration to patients already receiving guanethidine can result in profound orthostatic effects. If at all possible, guanethidine should be discontinued well before minoxidil is begun. Where this is not possible, minoxidil therapy should be started in the hospital and the patient should remain institutionalized until severe orthostatic effects are no longer present or the patient has learned to avoid activities that provoke them. 5. Hazard of Rapid Control of Blood Pressure In patients with very severe blood pressure elevation, too rapid control of blood pressure, especially with intravenous agents, can precipitate syncope, cerebrovascular accidents, myocardial infarction and ischemia of special sense organs with resulting decrease or loss of vision or hearing. Patients with compromised circulation or cryoglobulinemia may also suffer ischemic episodes of the affected organs. Although such events have not been unequivocally associated with minoxidil use, total experience is limited at present. Any patient with malignant hypertension should have initial treatment with minoxidil carried out in a hospital setting, both to assure that blood pressure is falling and to assure that it is not falling more rapidly than intended. Flammable: Keep away from fire or flame Do not use if you are a woman your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on the side of this carton or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp. Minoxidil Topical Aerosol, 5% (Foam) is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline. you have no family history of hair loss your hair loss is sudden and/or patchy you do not know the reason for your hair loss you are under 18 years of age. your scalp is red, inflamed, infected, irritated, or painful you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product do not apply on other parts of the body avoid contact with the eyes. some people have experienced changes in hair color and/or texture it takes time to regrow hair. the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person. Stop use and ask a doctor if chest pain, rapid heartbeat, faintness, or dizziness occurs sudden, unexplained weight gain occurs your hands or feet swell scalp irritation or redness occurs unwanted facial hair growth occurs you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast-feeding. Keep out of reach of children and pets. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Do not use if: You are a pregnant woman Your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on the sideof this carton or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp. 5%minoxidil topical foam is not intended for frontal baldness orreceding hairline. You suffer from metal allergies You have no family history of hair loss. You hair loss is sudden and/or patchy. You do not know the reason for your hair loss. You are under 18 years of age. You scalp is red, inflamed, infected, irritated, or painful. You use other medicines on the scalp. Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product: Do not apply on other parts of the body Avoid contact with the eyes. Some people have experienced changes in hair color and/or texture. It takes time to regrow hair. Results may occur at 2 months withtwice a day usage. For some people, you may need to use thisproduct for at least 4 months before you see results.The amount of hair regrowth is different for each person. Thisproduct will not work for all people. Stop use and ask a doctor if: Chest pain, rapid heartbeat, faintness, or dizziness occurs. Sudden, unexplained weight gain occurs. Your hands or feet swell. Scalp irritation or redness occurs. Unwanted facial hair growth occurs You do not see hair regrowth in 4 months. May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast-feeding Keep out of reach of children. lf swallowed, get medical help orcontact Poison Control Center right away. Do not use if • you are a woman • your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on side of this carton or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). WARNINGS Salt and Water Retention: Congestive Heart Failure – concomitant use of an adequate diuretic is required – Minoxidil tablets must usually be administered concomitantly with a diuretic adequate to prevent fluid retention and possible congestive heart failure; a high ceiling (loop) diuretic is almost always required. If minoxidil is used without a diuretic, retention of several hundred milli-equivalents of salt and corresponding volumes of water can occur within a few days, leading to increased plasma and interstitial fluid volume and local or generalized edema. Concomitant Treatment to Prevent Tachycardia is Usually Required – Minoxidil increases the heart rate. Pericarditis, Pericardial Effusion and Tamponade – There have been reports of pericarditis occurring in association with the use of minoxidil. If the effusion persists, withdrawal of minoxidil should be considered in light of other means of controlling the hypertension and the patient’s clinical status. Interaction with Guanethidine: Although minoxidil does not itself cause orthostatic hypotension, its administration to patients already receiving guanethidine can result in profound orthostatic effects. Hazard of Rapid Control of Blood Pressure: In patients with very severe blood pressure elevation, too rapid control of blood pressure, especially with intravenous agents, can precipitate syncope, cerebrovascular accidents, myocardial infarction and ischemia of special sense organs with resulting decrease or loss of vision or hearing.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Minoxidil tablets are contraindicated in pheochromocytoma, because it may stimulate secretion of catecholamines from the tumor through its antihypertensive action. Minoxidil tablets are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation. Minoxidil is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation.
Interactions (label): 4. Drug interactions See " Interaction with Guanethidine " under WARNINGS . Drug Interactions See “Interaction with Guanethidine” under WARNINGS .

=== BISMUTH SUBSALICYLATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antidiarrheal/Antacid Purposes Upset stomach reliever and antidiarrheal Purpose Upset stomach reliever and antidiarrheal Purposes Antidiarrheal/Upset stomach reliever PURPOSE Upset stomach reliever and anti-diarrheal Purpose ​Purpose Upset stomach reliever and antidiarrheal Active ingredient (per 15 mL) Purposes Bismuth subsalicylate 262 mg Anti-diarrheal Upset stomach reliever
Indications: Uses relieves travelers’ diarrhea diarrhea upset stomach due to overindulgence in food and drink including: heartburn indigestion nausea gas belching fullness Uses relieves travelers' diarrhea diarrhea upset stomach due to overindulgence in food and drink, including: heartburn indigestion nausea gas belching fullness Uses Relieves traveler’s diarrhea diarrhea upset stomach due to overindulgence in food and drink heartburn indigestion nausea gas USE(S) relieves: diarrhea heartburn indigestion nausea upset stomach associated with these symptoms Uses ​Uses relieves: diarrhea heartburn indigestion nausea upset stomach associated with these symptoms Uses relieves: traveler’s diarrhea diarrhea upset stomach due to overindulgence in food and drink, including: heartburn indigestion nausea gas belching fullness Uses Relieves • travelers' diarrhea • diarrhea • upset stomach due to overindulgence in food and drink, including: • heartburn • indigestion • nausea • gas • belching • fullness
Dosage: Directions chew or dissolve in mouth Adults and children over 12 years : 2 tablets (1 dose) every ½ hour or 4 tablets (2 doses) every hour as needed for diarrhea 2 tablets (1 dose) every 1/2 hour as needed for overindulgence (upset stomach, heartburn, indigestion, nausea) do not exceed 8 doses (16 tablets) in 24 hours use until diarrhea stops but no more than 2 days Children under 12 years of age: ask a doctor drink plenty of clear fluids to prevent dehydration caused by diarrhea Directions chew or dissolve in mouth adults and children 12 years and over: 2 tablets every 1/2 to 1 hour as needed do not exceed 8 doses (16 tablets) in 24 hours use until diarrhea stops but not more than 2 days children under 12 years: ask a doctor drink plenty of clear fluids to help prevent dehydration caused by diarrhea Directions • swallow with water, do not chew • adults and children 12 years and over: 2 caplets (1 dose) every ½ hour or 4 caplets (2 doses) every hour as needed for diarrhea 2 caplets (1 dose) every ½ hour as needed for overindulgence (upset stomach, heartburn, indigestion, nausea) • do not exceed 8 doses (16 caplets) in 24 hours • use until diarrhea stops but not more than 2 days • children under 12 years: ask a doctor • drink plenty of clear fluids to help prevent dehydration caused by diarrhea Directions shake well immediately before each use adults and children 12 years of age and older : 30 ml or 2 tablespoonful for accurate dosing, use convenient pre-measured dose cup repeat dose every 1/2 hour to 1 hour as needed do not exceed 8 doses in 24 hours use until diarrhea stops but not more than 2 days children under 12 years: ask a doctor drink plenty of clear fluids to help prevent dehydration caused by diarrhea DIRECTIONS chew or dissolve in mouth adults and children 12 years and over: 2 tablets every 1/2 to 1 hour as needed do not take more than 8 doses (16 tablets) in 24 hours children under 12 years: ask a doctor drink plenty of clear fluids to help prevent dehydration caused by diarrhea Directions ​Directions shake well before use mL = milliliter TBSP = tablespoon measure only with dosing cup provided. Do not use any other dosing device. adults and children 12 years and over: 1 dose (2 TBSP or 30 mL) every 1/2 to 1 hour as needed do not exceed 8 doses (16 TBSP or 240 mL) in 24 hours use until diarrhea stops but not more than 2 days children under 12 years: ask a doctor drink plenty of clear fluids to help prevent dehydration caused by diarrhea Directions shake well immediately before each use only use pre-measured dose cup adults and children 12 years of age and older: 1 dose (30 mL) every 1/2 hour to 1 hour as needed. do not exceed 8 doses (240 mL) in 24 hours use until diarrhea stops but not more than 2 days children under 12 years: ask a doctor drink plenty of clear fluids to help prevent dehydration caused by diarrhea Directions • chew or dissolve in mouth • adults and children 12 years and over: • 2 tablets every 1/2 to 1 hour as needed • do not exceed 8 doses (16 tablets) in 24 hours • use until diarrhea stops but not more than 2 days • children under 12 years: ask a doctor • drink plenty of clear fluids to help prevent dehydration caused by diarrhea Directions fully chew before swallowing adults and children 12 years and over: • 2 soft chewable tablets every 1/2 hour or 4 soft chewable tablets every hour as needed for diarrhea • 2 soft chewable tablets every 1/2 hour to 1 hour as needed for overindulgence (upset stomach, heartburn, indigestion, nausea) do not exceed 8 doses (16 soft chewable tablets) in 24 hours • use until diarrhea stops but not more than 2 days children under 12 years: ask a doctor drink plenty of clear fluids to help prevent dehydration caused by diarrhea Directions chew or dissolve in mouth adults and children 12 years and over: 2 tablets (1 dose) every 1/2 hour or 4 tablets (2 doses) every hour as needed for diarrhea 2 tablets (1 dose) every ½ hour as needed for overindulgence (upset stomach, heartburn, indigestion, nausea) do not exceed 8 doses (16 tablets) in 24 hours use until diarrhea stops but not more than 2 days children under 12 years: ask a doctor drink plenty of clear fluids to help prevent dehydration caused by diarrhea
Warnings: Warnings Reye’s syndrome Children and teenagers who have or are recovering from chicken pox or flu-like symptoms should not use this product. When using this product, if changes in behavior with nausea and vomiting occur, consult a doctor because these symptoms could be an early sign of Reye’s syndrome, a rare but serious illness. Allergy alert Contains salicylate. Do not take if you are allergic to salicylates (including aspirin) taking other salicylate products Do not use if you have an ulcer a bleeding problem bloody or black stool Ask a doctor before use if you have fever mucus in the stool Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any drug for anticoagulation (thinning the blood) diabetes gout arthritis Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms get worse or last more than 2 days ringing in the ears or loss of hearing occurs n diarrhea lasts more than 2 days When using this product a temporary, but harmless, darkening of the stool and/or tongue may occur If pregnant or breast-feeding ask a health professional before use. Allergy alert: Contains salicylate. Do not take if you are allergic to salicylates (including aspirin) taking other salicylate products Warnings Reye's syndrome: Children and teenagers who have or are recovering from chicken pox or flu-like symptoms should not use this product. When using this product, if changes in behavior with nausea and vomiting occur, consult a doctor because these symptoms could be an early sign of Reye's syndrome, a rare but serious illness. Do not take if you are allergic to salicylates (including aspirin) taking other salicylate products Do not use if you have an ulcer a bleeding problem bloody or black stool Ask a doctor before use if you have fever mucus in the stool Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any drug for anticoagulation (thinning the blood) diabetes gout arthritis When using this product a temporary, but harmless, darkening of the stool and/or tongue may occur Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms get worse or last more than 2 days ringing in the ears or loss of hearing occurs diarrhea lasts more than 2 days If pregnant or breast feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Do not take if you are allergic to salicylates (including aspirin) taking other salicylate products Do not use if you have an ulcer a bleeding problem bloody or black stool Ask a doctor before use if you have fever mucus in the stool Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any drug for diabetes gout arthritis anticoagulation (thinning the blood) When using this product a temporary, but harmless, darkening of the stool and/or tongue may occur Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms get worse ringing in the ears or loss of hearing occurs diarrhea lasts more than 2 days If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1-800-222-1222. When using this product, if changes in behaviour with nausea and vomiting occur, consult a doctor because these symptoms could be an early sign of Reye's Syndrome, a rare but serious illness. Warnings ​Warnings Reye's syndrome ​Reye's syndrome: Children and teenagers who have or are recovering from chicken pox or flu-like symptoms should not use this product. Allergy alert ​Allergy alert: Contains salicylate. Do not take if you are allergic to salicylates (including aspirin) taking other salicylate products Do not use if you have ​Do not use if you have an ulcer bloody or black stool a bleeding problem Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any drug for anticoagulation (thinning of the blood) diabetes gout arthritis When using this product When using this product a temporary, but harmless darkening of the stool and/or tongue may occur Stop use and ask a doctor if Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms get worse ringing in the ears or loss of hearing occurs diarrhea lasts more than 2 days If pregnant or breast-feeding If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. Warnings Do not take if you are • allergic to salicylates (including aspirin) • taking other salicylate products Do not use if you have • an ulcer • a bleeding problem • bloody or black stool Ask a doctor before use if you have • fever • mucus in the stool Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any drug for • anticoagulation (thinning the blood) • diabetes • gout • arthritis When using this product a temporary, but harmless, darkening of the stool and/or tongue may occur Stop use and ask a doctor if • symptoms get worse or last more than 2 days • ringing in the ears or loss of hearing occurs • diarrhea lasts more than 2 days If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Do not take if you are • allergic to salicylates (including aspirin) • taking other salicylate products

=== PREGABALIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pregabalin capsules are indicated for: Management of neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy Management of postherpetic neuralgia Adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older Management of fibromyalgia Management of neuropathic pain associated with spinal cord injury Pregabalin capsules are indicated for: Neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) (1 ) Postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) (1) Adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older ( 1) Fibromyalgia ( 1) Neuropathic pain associated with spinal cord injury (1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pregabalin capsules are indicated for: • Management of neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy • Management of postherpetic neuralgia • Adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older • Management of fibromyalgia • Management of neuropathic pain associated with spinal cord injury Pregabalin capsules are indicated for: Neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) ( 1 ) Postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) ( 1 ) Adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older ( 1 ) Fibromyalgia ( 1 ) Neuropathic pain associated with spinal cord injury ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pregabalin capsules are indicated for: • Management of neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy • Management of postherpetic neuralgia • Adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older • Management of fibromyalgia • Management of neuropathic pain associated with spinal cord injury Pregabalin capsules are indicated for: • Neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) ( 1 ) • Postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) ( 1 ) • Adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older ( 1 ) • Fibromyalgia ( 1 ) • Neuropathic pain associated with spinal cord injury ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pregabalin is indicated for: • Management of neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy • Management of postherpetic neuralgia • Adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older • Management of fibromyalgia • Management of neuropathic pain associated with spinal cord injury Pregabalin is indicated for: Neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) ( 1 ) Postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) ( 1 ) Adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older ( 1 ) Fibromyalgia ( 1 ) Neuropathic pain associated with spinal cord injury ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pregabalin capsules are indicated for: Management of neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy Management of postherpetic neuralgia Adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older Management of fibromyalgia Management of neuropathic pain associated with spinal cord injury Pregabalin capsules are indicated for: Neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) (1) Postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) (1) Adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older (1) Fibromyalgia (1) Neuropathic pain associated with spinal cord injury (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pregabalin capsules are indicated for: Management of neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy Management of postherpetic neuralgia Adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 17 years of age and older Management of fibromyalgia Management of neuropathic pain associated with spinal cord injury Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer's LYRICA (pregabalin) Capsules and Oral Solution products. However, due to Pfizer's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information. Pregabalin capsules are indicated for: Neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) ( 1 ) Postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) ( 1 ) Adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 17 years of age and older ( 1 ) Fibromyalgia ( 1 ) Neuropathic pain associated with spinal cord injury ( 1 )
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For adult indications, begin dosing at 150 mg/day. For partial-onset seizure dosing in pediatric patients 1 month of age and older, refer to section 2.4. ( 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6 ) Dosing recommendations: INDICATION Dosing Regimen Maximum Dose DPN Pain ( 2.2 ) 3 divided doses per day 300 mg/day within 1 week PHN ( 2.3 ) 2 or 3 divided doses per day 300 mg/day within 1 week. Maximum dose of 600 mg/day. Adjunctive Therapy for Partial-Onset Seizures in Pediatric and Adult Patients Weighing 30 kg or More ( 2.4 ) 2 or 3 divided doses per day Maximum dose of 600 mg/day. Adjunctive Therapy for Partial-Onset Seizures in Pediatric Patients Weighing Less than 30 kg ( 2.4 ) 1 month to less than 4 years: 3 divided doses per day 4 years and older: 2 or 3 divided doses per day 14 mg/kg/day. Fibromyalgia ( 2.5 ) 2 divided doses per day 300 mg/day within 1 week. Maximum dose of 450 mg/day. Neuropathic Pain Associated with Spinal Cord Injury ( 2.6 ) 2 divided doses per day 300 mg/day within 1 week. Dose should be adjusted in adult patients with reduced renal function. ( 2.7 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Pregabalin capsules are given orally with or without food. When discontinuing pregabalin capsules, taper gradually over a minimum of 1 week [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . Because pregabalin is eliminated primarily by renal excretion, adjust the dose in adult patients with reduced renal function [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) ] . 2.2 Neuropathic Pain Associated with Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathy in Adults The maximum recommended dose of pregabalin capsules is 100 mg three times a day (300 mg/day) in patients with creatinine clearance of at least 60 mL/min. Begin dosing at 50 mg three times a day (150 mg/day). The dose may be increased to 300 mg/day within 1 week based on efficacy and tolerability. Although pregabalin was also studied at 600 mg/day, there is no evidence that this dose confers additional significant benefit and this dose was less well tolerated. In view of the dose-dependent adverse reactions, treatment with doses above 300 mg/day is not recommended [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . 2.3 Postherpetic Neuralgia in Adults The recommended dose of pregabalin capsules is 75 to 150 mg two times a day, or 50 to 100 mg three times a day (150 to 300 mg/day) in patients with creatinine clearance of at least 60 mL/min. Begin dosing at 75 mg two times a day, or 50 mg three times a day (150 mg/day). Patients who do not experience sufficient pain relief following 2 to 4 weeks of treatment with 300 mg/day, and who are able to tolerate pregabalin, may be treated with up to 300 mg two times a day, or 200 mg three times a day (600 mg/day). In view of the dose-dependent adverse reactions and the higher rate of treatment discontinuation due to adverse reactions, reserve dosing above 300 mg/day for those patients who have on-going pain and are tolerating 300 mg daily [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . 2.4 Adjunctive Therapy for Partial-Onset Seizures in Patients 1 Month of Age and Older The recommended dosages for adults and pediatric patients 1 month of age and older are included in Table 1. Administer the total daily dosage orally in two or three divided doses as indicated in Table 1. In pediatric patients, the recommended dosing regimen is dependent upon body weight. Based on clinical response and tolerability, dosage may be increased, approximately weekly. Table 1. Recommended Dosage for Adults and Pediatric Patients 1 Month and Older Age and Body Weight Recommended Initial Dosage Recommended Maximum Dosage Frequency of Administration Adults (17 years and older) 150 mg/day 600 mg/day 2 or 3 divided doses Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg or more 2.5 mg/kg/day 10 mg/kg/day (not to exceed 600 mg/day) 2 or 3 divided doses Pediatric patients weighing less than 30 kg 3.5 mg/kg/day 14 mg/kg/day 1 month to less than 4 years of age: 3 divided doses 4 years of age and older: 2 or 3 divided doses Both the efficacy and adverse event profiles of pregabalin have been shown to be dose-related. The effect of dose escalation rate on the tolerability of pregabalin has not been formally studied. The efficacy of adjunctive pregabalin in patients taking gabapentin has not been evaluated in controlled trials. Consequently, dosing recommendations for the use of pregabalin with gabapentin cannot be offered. 2.5 Management of Fibromyalgia in Adults The recommended dose of pregabalin capsules for fibromyalgia is 300 to 450 mg/day. Begin dosing at 75 mg two times a day (150 mg/day). The dose may be increased to 150 mg two times a day (300 mg/day) within 1 week based on efficacy and tolerability. Patients who do not experience sufficient benefit with 300 mg/day may be further increased to 225 mg two times a day (450 mg/day). Although pregabalin was also studied at 600 mg/day, there is no evidence that this dose confers additional benefit and this dose was less well tolerated. In view of the dose-dependent adverse reactions, treatment with doses above 450 mg/day is not recommended [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . 2.6 Neuropathic Pain Associated with Spinal Cord Injury in Adults The recommended dose range of pregabalin capsules for the treatment of neuropathic pain associated with spinal cord injury is 150 to 600 mg/day. The recommended starting dose is 75 mg two times a day (150 mg/day). Patients who do not experience sufficient pain relief after 2 to 3 weeks of treatment with 150 mg two times a day and who tolerate pregabalin may be treated with up to 300 mg two times a day [see Clinical Studies (14.5) ] . 2.7 Dosing for Adult Patients with Renal Impairment In view of dose-dependent adverse reactions and since pregabalin is eliminated primarily by renal excretion, adjust the dose in adult patients with reduced renal function. The use of pregabalin capsules in pediatric patients with compromised renal function has not been studied. Base the dose adjustment in patients with renal impairment on creatinine clearance (CLcr), as indicated in Table 2. To use this dosing table, an estimate of the patient's CLcr in mL/min is needed. CLcr in mL/min may be estimated from serum creatinine (mg/dL) determination using the Cockcroft and Gault equation: Next, refer to the Dosage and Administration section to determine the recommended total daily dose based on indication, for a patient with normal renal function (CLcr greater than or equal to 60 mL/min). Then refer to Table 2 to determine the corresponding renal adjusted dose. (For example: A patient initiating pregabalin therapy for postherpetic neuralgia with normal renal function (CLcr greater than or equal to 60 mL/min), receives a total daily dose of 150 mg/day pregabalin. Therefore, a renal impaired patient with a CLcr of 50 mL/min would receive a total daily dose of 75 mg/day pregabalin administered in two or three divided doses.) For patients undergoing hemodialysis, adjust the pregabalin daily dose based on renal function. In addition to the daily dose adjustment, administer a supplemental dose immediately following every 4-hour hemodialysis treatment (see Table 2). Table 2. Pregabalin Dosage Adjustment Based on Renal Function Creatinine Clearance (CLcr) (mL/min) Total Pregabalin Daily Dose (mg/day)* Dose Regimen Greater than or equal to 60 150 300 450 600 BID or TID 30 to 60 75 150 225 300 BID or TID 15 to 30 25 to 50 75 100 to 150 150 QD or BID Less than 15 25 25 to 50 50 to 75 75 QD Supplementary dosage following hemodialysis (mg) † Patients on the 25 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 25 mg or 50 mg Patients on the 25 to 50 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 50 mg or 75 mg Patients on the 50 to 75 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 75 mg or 100 mg Patients on the 75 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 100 mg or 150 mg TID = Three divided doses; BID = Two divided doses; QD = Single daily dose. * Total daily dose (mg/day) should be divided as indicated by dose regimen to provide mg/dose. † Supplementary dose is a single additional dose. For partial-onset seizure dosing in pediatric patients 1 month of age and older, refer to section 2.4 . When discontinuing pregabalin, taper gradually over a minimum of 1 week [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . 2.2 Neuropathic Pain Associated with Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathy in Adults The maximum recommended dose of pregabalin capsule is 100 mg three times a day (300 mg/day) in patients with creatinine clearance of at least 60 mL/min. 2.3 Postherpetic Neuralgia in Adults The recommended dose of pregabalin is 75 mg to 150 mg two times a day, or 50 mg to 100 mg three times a day (150 mg/day to 300 mg/day) in patients with creatinine clearance of at least 60 mL/min. 2.5 Management of Fibromyalgia in Adults The recommended dose of pregabalin for fibromyalgia is 300 mg/day to 450 mg/day. 2.6 Neuropathic Pain Associated with Spinal Cord Injury in Adults The recommended dose range of pregabalin capsules for the treatment of neuropathic pain associated with spinal cord injury is 150 mg/day to 600 mg/day. The use of pregabalin in pediatric patients with compromised renal function has not been studied. To use this dosing table, an estimate of the patient’s CLcr in mL/min is needed. In addition to the daily dose adjustment, administer a supplemental dose immediately following every 4-hour hemodialysis treatment (see Table 2 ). Pregabalin Dosage Adjustment Based on Renal Function Creatinine Clearance (CLcr) (mL/min) Total Pregabalin Daily Dose (mg/day) Total daily dose (mg/day) should be divided as indicated by dose regimen to provide mg/dose. Dose Regimen TID= Three divided doses; BID = Two divided doses; QD = Single daily dose. Greater than or equal to 60 150 300 450 600 BID or TID 30 to 60 75 150 225 300 BID or TID 15 to 30 25 to 50 75 100 to 150 150 QD or BID Less than 15 25 25 to 50 50 to 75 75 QD Supplementary dosage following hemodialysis (mg) Supplementary dose is a single additional dose. Patients on the 25 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 25 mg or 50 mg Patients on the 25 mg to 50 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 50 mg or 75 mg Patients on the 50 mg to 75 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 75 mg or 100 mg Patients on the 75 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 100 mg or 150 mg 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For adult indications, begin dosing at 150 mg/day. ( 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6 ) • Dosing recommendations: INDICATION Dosing Regimen Maximum Dose DPN Pain ( 2.2 ) 3 divided doses per day 300 mg/day within 1 week PHN ( 2.3 ) 2 or 3 divided doses per day 300 mg/day within 1 week. Adjunctive Therapy for Partial-Onset Seizures in Adult Patients Weighing 30 kg or More ( 2.4 ) 2 or 3 divided doses per day Maximum dose of 600 mg/day. Adjunctive Therapy for Partial-Onset Seizures in Pediatric Patients Weighing Less than 30 kg ( 2.4 )) 1 month to less than 4 years: 3 divided doses per day 4 years and older: 2 or 3 divided doses per day 14 mg/kg/day. • Dose should be adjusted in adult patients with reduced renal function. When discontinuing pregabalin capsules, taper gradually over a minimum of 1 week [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] . Because pregabalin capsules are eliminated primarily by renal excretion, adjust the dose in adult patients with reduced renal function [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 )]. Although pregabalin capsules were also studied at 600 mg/day, there is no evidence that this dose confers additional significant benefit and this dose was less well tolerated. In view of the dose-dependent adverse reactions, treatment with doses above 300 mg/day is not recommended [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . 2.3 Postherpetic Neuralgia in Adults The recommended dose of pregabalin capsules is 75 mg to 150 mg two times a day, or 50 mg to 100 mg three times a day (150 mg/day to 300 mg/day) in patients with creatinine clearance of at least 60 mL/min. Patients who do not experience sufficient pain relief following 2 to 4 weeks of treatment with 300 mg/day, and who are able to tolerate pregabalin capsules, may be treated with up to 300 mg two times a day, or 200 mg three times a day (600 mg/day). In view of the dose-dependent adverse reactions and the higher rate of treatment discontinuation due to adverse reactions, reserve dosing above 300 mg/day for those patients who have on-going pain and are tolerating 300 mg daily [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . Recommended Dosage for Adults and Pediatric Patients 1 Month and Older Age and Body Weight Recommended Initial Dosage Recommended Maximum Dosage Frequency of Administration Adults (17 years and older) 150 mg/day 600 mg/day 2 or 3 divided doses Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg or more 2.5 mg/kg/day 10 mg/kg/day (not to exceed 600 mg/day) 2 or 3 divided doses Pediatric patients weighing less than 30 kg 3.5 mg/kg/day 14 mg/kg/day 1 month to less than 4 years of age: 3 divided doses 4 years of age and older: 2 or 3 divided doses Both the efficacy and adverse event profiles of pregabalin capsules have been shown to be dose-related. The effect of dose escalation rate on the tolerability of pregabalin capsules has not been formally studied. The efficacy of adjunctive pregabalin capsules in patients taking gabapentin has not been evaluated in controlled trials. Consequently, dosing recommendations for the use of pregabalin capsules with gabapentin cannot be offered. 2.5 Management of Fibromyalgia in Adults The recommended dose of pregabalin capsules for fibromyalgia is 300 mg/day to 450 mg/day. Although pregabalin capsules were also studied at 600 mg/day, there is no evidence that this dose confers additional benefit and this dose was less well tolerated. In view of the dose-dependent adverse reactions, treatment with doses above 450 mg/day is not recommended [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . Patients who do not experience sufficient pain relief after 2 to 3 weeks of treatment with 150 mg two times a day and who tolerate pregabalin capsules may be treated with up to 300 mg two times a day [see Clinical Studies ( 14.5 )] . 2.7 Dosing for Adult Patients with Renal Impairment In view of dose-dependent adverse reactions and since pregabalin capsules are eliminated primarily by renal excretion, adjust the dose in adult patients with reduced renal function. (For example: A patient initiating pregabalin capsules therapy for postherpetic neuralgia with normal renal function (CLcr greater than or equal to 60 mL/min), receives a total daily dose of 150 mg/day pregabalin. Pregabalin Dosage Adjustment Based on Renal Function Creatinine Clearance (CLcr) (mL/min) Total Pregabalin Daily Dose (mg/day) * Dose Regimen Greater than or equal to 60 150 300 450 600 BID or TID 30–60 75 150 225 300 BID or TID 15–30 25–50 75 100–150 150 QD or BID Less than 15 25 25–50 50–75 75 QD Supplementary dosage following hemodialysis (mg) † Patients on the 25 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 25 mg or 50 mg Patients on the 25 mg–50 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 50 mg or 75 mg Patients on the 50 mg–75 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 75 mg or 100 mg Patients on the 75 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 100 mg or 150 mg TID = Three divided doses; BID = Two divided doses; QD = Single daily dose. Cockcroft and Gault Equation ( 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6 ) Dosing recommendations: INDICATION Dosing Regimen Maximum Dose DPN Pain ( 2.2 ) 3 divided doses per day 300 mg/day within 1 week PHN ( 2.3 ) 2 or 3 divided doses per day 300 mg/day within 1 week. Adjunctive Therapy for Partial-Onset Seizures in Pediatric Patients Weighing Less than 30 kg ( 2.4 ) 1 month to less than 4 years: 3 divided doses per day 4 years and older : 2 or 3 divided doses per day 14mg/kg/day. ( 2.7 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Pregabalin is given orally with or without food. When discontinuing pregabalin, taper gradually over a minimum of 1 week [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ] . Because pregabalin is eliminated primarily by renal excretion, adjust the dose in adult patients with reduced renal function [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 ) ]. 2.2 Neuropathic Pain Associated with Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathy in Adults The maximum recommended dose of pregabalin is 100 mg three times a day (300 mg/day) in patients with creatinine clearance of at least 60 mL/min. In view of the dose-dependent adverse reactions, treatment with doses above 300 mg/day is not recommended [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. 2.3 Postherpetic Neuralgia in Adults The recommended dose of pregabalin is 75 to 150 mg two times a day, or 50 to 100 mg three times a day (150 to 300 mg/day) in patients with creatinine clearance of at least 60 mL/min. In view of the dose-dependent adverse reactions and the higher rate of treatment discontinuation due to adverse reactions, reserve dosing above 300 mg/day for those patients who have on-going pain and are tolerating 300 mg daily [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. 2.5 Management of Fibromyalgia in Adults The recommended dose of pregabalin for fibromyalgia is 300 to 450 mg/day. 2.6 Neuropathic Pain Associated with Spinal Cord Injury in Adults The recommended dose range of pregabalin for the treatment of neuropathic pain associated with spinal cord injury is 150 to 600 mg/day. Patients who do not experience sufficient pain relief after 2 to 3 weeks of treatment with 150 mg two times a day and who tolerate pregabalin may be treated with up to 300 mg two times a day [see Clinical Studies ( 14.5 )] . Pregabalin Dosage Adjustment Based on Renal Function Creatinine Clearance (CLcr) (mL/min) Total Pregabalin Daily Dose (mg/day)* Dose Regimen Greater than or equal to 60 150 300 450 600 BID or TID 30 to 60 75 150 225 300 BID or TID 15 to 30 25 to 50 75 100 to 150 150 QD or BID Less than 15 25 25 to 50 50 to 75 75 QD Supplementary dosage following hemodialysis (mg)† Patients on the 25 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 25 mg or 50 mg Patients on the 25 to 50 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 50 mg or 75 mg Patients on the 50 to 75 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 75 mg or 100 mg Patients on the 75 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 100 mg or 150 mg TID= Three divided doses; BID = Two divided doses; QD = Single daily dose. ( 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6 ) • Dosing recommendations: INDICATION Dosing Regimen Maximum Dose DPN Pain ( 2.2 ) 3 divided doses per day 300 mg/day within 1 week. PHN ( 2.3 ) 2 or 3 divided doses per day 300 mg/day within 1 week. When discontinuing pregabalin capsules, taper gradually over a minimum of 1 week [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. Because Pregabalin is eliminated primarily by renal excretion, adjust the dose in adult patients with reduced renal function [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 )]. In view of the dose-dependent adverse reactions, treatment with doses above 300 mg/day is not recommended [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ) ]. In view of the dose-dependent adverse reactions and the higher rate of treatment discontinuation due to adverse reactions, reserve dosing above 300 mg/day for those patients who have on-going pain and are tolerating 300 mg daily [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. Table 1.Recommended Dosage for Adults and Pediatric Patients 1 Month and Older Age and Body Weight Recommended Initial Dosage Recommended Maximum Dosage Frequency of Administration Adults (17 years and older) 150 mg/day 600 mg/day 2 or 3 divided doses Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg or more 2.5 mg/kg/day 10 mg/kg/day (not to exceed 600 mg/day) 2 or 3 divided doses Pediatric patients weighing less than 30 kg 3.5 mg/kg/day 14 mg/kg/day 1 month to less than 4 years of age: 3 divided doses 4 years of age and older: 2 or 3 divided doses Both the efficacy and adverse event profiles of pregabalin have been shown to be dose-related. In view of the dose-dependent adverse reactions, treatment with doses above 450 mg/day is not recommended [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. Patients who do not experience sufficient pain relief after 2 to 3 weeks of treatment with 150 mg two times a day and who tolerate pregabalin may be treated with up to 300 mg two times a day [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.5 )]. Pregabalin Dosage Adjustment Based on Renal Function Creatinine Clearance (CLcr) (mL/min) Total Pregabalin Daily Dose (mg/day)* Dose Regimen Greater than or equal to 60 150 300 450 600 BID or TID 30-60 75 150 225 300 BID or TID 15-30 25-50 75 100-150 150 QD or BID Less than 15 25 25-50 50-75 75 QD Supplementary dosage following hemodialysis (mg) † Patients on the 25 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 25 mg or 50 mg Patients on the 25-50 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 50 mg or 75 mg Patients on the 50-75 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 75 mg or 100 mg Patients on the 75 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 100 mg or 150 mg TID= Three divided doses; BID = Two divided doses; QD = Single daily dose. *Total daily dose (mg/day) should be divided as indicated by dose regimen to provide mg/dose. eq ( 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6 ) Dosing recommendations: INDICATION Dosing Regimen Maximum Dose DPN Pain ( 2.2 ) 3 divided doses per day 300 mg/day within 1 week. When discontinuing pregabalin capsules, taper gradually over a minimum of 1 week [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Because pregabalin is eliminated primarily by renal excretion, adjust the dose in adult patients with reduced renal function [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) ]. 2.3 Postherpetic Neuralgia in Adults The recommended dose of pregabalin capsules is 75 mg to 150 mg two times a day, or 50 mg to 100 mg three times a day (150 mg to 300 mg/day) in patients with creatinine clearance of at least 60 mL/min. The effect of dose escalation rate on the tolerability of pregabalin capsules have not been formally studied. Patients who do not experience sufficient pain relief after 2 to 3 weeks of treatment with 150 mg two times a day and who tolerate pregabalin capsules may be treated with up to 300 mg two times a day [see Clinical Studies (14.5) ] . Pregabalin Dosage Adjustment Based on Renal Function TID = Three divided doses; BID = Two divided doses; QD = Single daily dose. Creatinine Clearance (CLcr) (mL/min) Total Pregabalin Daily Dose (mg/day)* Dose Regimen Greater than or equal to 60 150 300 450 600 BID or TID 30 to 60 75 150 225 300 BID or TID 15 to 30 25 to 50 75 100 to 150 150 QD or BID Less than 15 25 25 to 50 50 to 75 75 QD Supplementary dosage following hemodialysis (mg) † Patients on the 25 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 25 mg or 50 mg Patients on the 25 mg to 50 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 50 mg or 75 mg Patients on the 50 mg to 75 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 75 mg or 100 mg Patients on the 75 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 100 mg or 150 mg Pregabalin equation Adjunctive Therapy for Partial-Onset Seizures in Adult Patients 17 Years of Age and Older ( 2.4 ) 2 or 3 divided doses per day Maximum dose of 600 mg/day. When discontinuing pregabalin, taper gradually over a minimum of 1 week. [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. In view of the dose-dependent adverse reactions, treatment with doses above 300 mg/day is not recommended [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. 2.3 Postherpetic Neuralgia in Adults The recommended dose of pregabalin capsule is 75 mg to 150 mg two times a day, or 50 mg to 100 mg three times a day (150 mg/day to 300 mg/day) in patients with creatinine clearance of at least 60 mL/min. In view of the dose-dependent adverse reactions and the higher rate of treatment discontinuation due to adverse reactions, reserve dosing above 300 mg/day for those patients who have on-going pain and are tolerating 300 mg daily [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. 2.4 Adjunctive Therapy for Partial-Onset Seizures in Patients 17 Years of Age and Older The recommended dosage for adult patients 17 years of age and older is included in Table 1. Table 1: Recommended Dosage for Adult Patients 17 Years and Older Age and Body Weight Recommended Initial Dosage Recommended Maximum Dosage Frequency of Administration Adults (17 years and older) 150 mg/day 600 mg/day 2 or 3 divided doses Both the efficacy and adverse event profiles of pregabalin have been shown to be dose-related. Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer's LYRICA (pregabalin) Capsules and Oral Solution products. However, due to Pfizer's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information. In view of the dose-dependent adverse reactions, treatment with doses above 450 mg/day is not recommended [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Patients who do not experience sufficient pain relief after 2 to 3 weeks of treatment with 150 mg two times a day and who tolerate pregabalin capsules may be treated with up to 300 mg two times a day [see Clinical Studies (14.5) ]. Base the dose adjustment in patients with renal impairment on creatinine clearance (CL cr ), as indicated in Table 2. To use this dosing table, an estimate of the patient's CL cr in mL/min is needed. CL cr in mL/min may be estimated from serum creatinine (mg/dL) determination using the Cockcroft and Gault equation: [140 - age (years)] × weight (kg) CL cr = ------------------------------------------ (× 0.85 for female patients) 72 × serum creatinine (mg/dL) Next, refer to the Dosage and Administration section to determine the recommended total daily dose based on indication, for a patient with normal renal function (CL cr greater than or equal to 60 mL/min). (For example: A patient initiating pregabalin therapy for postherpetic neuralgia with normal renal function (CL cr greater than or equal to 60 mL/min), receives a total daily dose of 150 mg/day pregabalin. Therefore, a renal impaired patient with a CL cr of 50 mL/min would receive a total daily dose of 75 mg/day pregabalin administered in two or three divided doses.) For patients undergoing hemodialysis, adjust the pregabalin daily dose based on renal function. Pregabalin Dosage Adjustment Based on Renal Function Creatinine Clearance (CL cr ) (mL/min) Total Pregabalin Daily Dose (mg/day) Total daily dose (mg/day) should be divided as indicated by dose regimen to provide mg/dose. ( 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6 ) Dosing recommendations: INDICATION Dosing Regimen Maximum Dose DPN Pain ( 2.2 ) 3 divided doses per day 300 mg/day within 1 week. When discontinuing pregabalin, taper gradually over a minimum of 1 week [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) ] . pregabalin-equation When discontinuing pregabalin capsules, taper gradually over a minimum of 1 week [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . T able 2. pregabalin-equation.jpg Patients on the 25 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 25 mg or 50 mg Patients on the 25 mg to 50 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 50 mg or 75 mg Patients on the 50 mg to 75 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 75 mg or 100 mg Patients on the 75 mg QD regimen: take one supplemental dose of 100 mg or 150 mg Cockcroft and Gault equation
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Pregabalin capsules are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to pregabalin or any of its components. Angioedema and hypersensitivity reactions have occurred in patients receiving pregabalin therapy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Known hypersensitivity to pregabalin or any of its components. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Pregabalin is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to pregabalin or any of its components. Angioedema and hypersensitivity reactions have occurred in patients receiving pregabalin therapy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . • Known hypersensitivity to pregabalin or any of its components. Angioedema and hypersensitivity reactions have occurred in patients receiving pregabalin therapy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Pregabalin capsule is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to pregabalin or any of its components. Angioedema and hypersensitivity reactions have occurred in patients receiving pregabalin therapy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ].
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Since pregabalin is predominantly excreted unchanged in the urine, undergoes negligible metabolism in humans (less than 2% of a dose recovered in urine as metabolites), and does not bind to plasma proteins, its pharmacokinetics are unlikely to be affected by other agents through metabolic interactions or protein binding displacement. In vitro and in vivo studies showed that pregabalin is unlikely to be involved in significant pharmacokinetic drug interactions. Specifically, there are no pharmacokinetic interactions between pregabalin and the following antiepileptic drugs: carbamazepine, valproic acid, lamotrigine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, and topiramate. Important pharmacokinetic interactions would also not be expected to occur between pregabalin and commonly used antiepileptic drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12) ] . Pharmacodynamics Multiple oral doses of pregabalin were co-administered with oxycodone, lorazepam, or ethanol. Although no pharmacokinetic interactions were seen, additive effects on cognitive and gross motor functioning were seen when pregabalin was co-administered with these drugs. No clinically important effects on respiration were seen. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Since pregabalin capsules are predominantly excreted unchanged in the urine, undergoes negligible metabolism in humans (less than 2% of a dose recovered in urine as metabolites), and does not bind to plasma proteins, its pharmacokinetics are unlikely to be affected by other agents through metabolic interactions or protein binding displacement. In vitro and in vivo studies showed that pregabalin capsules are unlikely to be involved in significant pharmacokinetic drug interactions. Important pharmacokinetic interactions would also not be expected to occur between pregabalin capsules and commonly used antiepileptic drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 )] . Pharmacodynamics Multiple oral doses of pregabalin capsules were co-administered with oxycodone, lorazepam, or ethanol. Although no pharmacokinetic interactions were seen, additive effects on cognitive and gross motor functioning were seen when pregabalin capsules were co-administered with these drugs. Important pharmacokinetic interactions would also not be expected to occur between pregabalin and commonly used antiepileptic drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12)] . Important pharmacokinetic interactions would also not be expected to occur between pregabalin and commonly used antiepileptic drugs [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 )]. Important pharmacokinetic interactions would also not be expected to occur between pregabalin and commonly used antiepileptic drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12) ].

=== CHLOROXYLENOL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Drug Facts Box OTC-Purpose Section Antiseptic Purpose Antibacterial Purpose Antibacterial hand soap Purpose Antimicrobial Purpose Antiseptic Uses an effective antimicrobial hand cleanser. kills and inhibits bacterial growth on hands. gentle cleansers leave hands clean and moisturized. reduces the possibility of cross-contamination.
Indications: Drug Facts Box OTC-Indications & Usage Section for hand-washing to decrease bacteria on the skin Uses For handwashing to reduce bacteria on the skin Use For handwashing to decrease bacteria on the skin Use • Handwash to help decrease bacteria on the skin • Recommended for repeated use Uses For cleansing hands and arms prior to surgery Uses Handwash to help decrease bacteria on the skin Recommended for repeated use McKesson Antimicrobial Lotion Soap With Aloe | Herbal Scent
Dosage: Drug Facts Box OTC-Dosage & Administration Section wet hands and forearms apply 5 milliliters (teaspoonful) or palmful to hands and forearms scrub thoroughly for 1 minute and rinse Directions Apply foaming cleanser to dry hands Rub hands together to spread lather Wash for 15-20 seconds Rinse & dry hands thoroughly Directions Wet hands. Apply palmful to hands. Scrub thoroughly and rinse with water. Directions • Wet hands • Apply a small amount of product and work into a lather • Rinse well and dry hands completely Directions wet hands and forearms. Apply 5 ml or palmful to hands and forearms. Scrub thoroughly for 30 sec. and rinse. Directions Wet hands and forearms with water Clean under nails with nail cleaner Scrub for 3 minutes with the impregnated brush Pay close attention to the nails, cuticles, and interdigital spaces Rinse thoroughly with running water Repeat Directions Wet hands Apply product and thoroughly cover hands with lather Rinse well and dry hands completely Directions Use as you would any liquid hand soap. Wet hands with water, then apply small amount of product to palm. Rub hands together vigorously for at least 15 seconds. Rinse and dry thoroughly.
Warnings: Drug Facts Box OTC-Warnings Section For external use only Warnings For external use only When using this product Avoid contact with eyes. In case of eye contact, flush with water Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center rihgt away. Warnings For external use only KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN. May cause moderate eye irritation. Avoid contact with eyes and skin. If in eyes, flush eyes gently with water for 15 minutes. If swallowed, drink water to dilute. If irritation persists, contact a Physician or Poison Control Center. Warnings For external use only When using this product do not use in or near the eyes. In case of contact, rinse eyes thoroughly with water. Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash appears and lasts Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. In case of accidental ingestion, drink a glass of water to dilute. If eye contact occurs, rinse thoroughly with water. Warnings For external use only Do not use in eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if skin shows symptoms of irritation, sensitivity, redness, pain or swelling Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control right away Warnings For external use only. When using this product do not use in or near the eyes. Discontinue use if irritation occurs.

=== POTASSIUM CHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Supports the immune systems response to Lyme disease symptom
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Potassium Chloride Extended-Release Tablets are indicated for the treatment and prophylaxis of hypokalemia with or without metabolic alkalosis, in patients for whom dietary management with potassium-rich foods or diuretic dose reduction is insufficient. Potassium Chloride Extended-Release Tablets are a potassium salt, indicated for the treatment and prophylaxis of hypokalemia with or without metabolic alkalosis in patients for whom dietary management with potassium-rich foods or diuretic dose reduction is insufficient. (1) 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Potassium Chloride is indicated for the treatment and prophylaxis of hypokalemia with or without metabolic alkalosis, in patients for whom dietary management with potassium-rich foods or diuretic dose reduction is insufficient. Potassium Chloride is a potassium salt indicated for the treatment and prophylaxis of hypokalemia with or without metabolic alkalosis, in patients for whom dietary management with potassium-rich foods or diuretic dose reduction is insufficient. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ringer’s Injection is indicated for use as a source of water and electrolytes in adults and pediatric patients. Ringer’s Injection is indicated for use as a source of water and electrolytes in adults and pediatric patients. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Potassium chloride extended-release capsules are indicated for the treatment and prophylaxis of hypokalemia in adults and children with or without metabolic alkalosis, in patients for whom dietary management with potassium-rich foods or diuretic dose reduction is insufficient. Potassium chloride extended-release capsules contain potassium chloride, a potassium salt indicated for the treatment and prophylaxis of hypokalemia with or without metabolic alkalosis, in patients for whom dietary management with potassium-rich foods or diuretic dose reduction is insufficient. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Potassium Chloride Extended-release Tablets, USP is indicated for the treatment and prophylaxis of hypokalemia with or without metabolic alkalosis, in patients for whom dietary management with potassium-rich foods or diuretic dose reduction is insufficient. Potassium Chloride Extended-release Tablets, USP is a potassium salt, indicated for the treatment and prophylaxis of hypokalemia with or without metabolic alkalosis in patients for whom dietary management with potassium-rich foods or diuretic dose reduction is insufficient. Potassium chloride extended-release tablets are potassium salt indicated for the treatment and prophylaxis of hypokalemia with or without metabolic alkalosis in patients for whom dietary management with potassium-rich foods or diuretic dose reduction is insufficient. INDICATIONS AND USAGE This solution is indicated in patients requiring parenteral administration of potassium chloride with minimal carbohydrate calories. Uses Temporarily relieves symptoms associated with Skin disorders Minor skin eruptions Acne Dry, scaly & flaky skin USES: Supports the immune systems response to Lyme disease symptoms.* * ​Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. Not FDA evaluated. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection is indicated for use as a source of water, electrolytes, and calories or as an alkalinizing agent in adults and pediatric patients. Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection is indicated for use as a source of water, electrolytes, and calories or as an alkalinizing agent in adults and pediatric patients.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Monitor serum potassium and adjust dosages accordingly (2.1) If serum potassium is less than 2.5 mEq/L, use intravenous potassium instead of oral supplementation (2.1) Take with meals and with a glass of water or other liquid. Swallow tablets whole without crushing, chewing or sucking. (2.1) Treatment of hypokalemia : Doses range from 40 to 100 mEq/day in divided doses. Limit doses to 40 mEq per dose. (2.2) Prevention of hypokalemia : Typical dose is 20 mEq per day. (2.2) 2.1 Administration and Monitoring If serum potassium concentration is less than 2.5 mEq/L, use intravenous potassium instead of oral supplementation. Monitoring Monitor serum potassium and adjust dosages accordingly. Monitor serum potassium periodically during maintenance therapy to ensure potassium remains in desired range. The treatment of potassium depletion, particularly in the presence of cardiac disease, renal disease, or acidosis, requires careful attention to acid-base balance, volume status, electrolytes, including magnesium, sodium, chloride, phosphate, and calcium, electrocardiograms, and the clinical status of the patient. Correct volume status, acid-base balance, and electrolyte deficits as appropriate. Administration Take potassium chloride extended-release tablets with meals and with a glass of water or other liquid. Do not take potassium chloride extended-release tablets on an empty stomach because of its potential for gastric irritation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . 2.2 Dosing Dosage must be adjusted to the individual needs of each patient. Dosages greater than 40 mEq per day should be divided such that no more than 40 mEq is given in a single dose. Treatment of Hypokalemia: Typical dose range is 40 to 100 mEq per day. Maintenance or Prophylaxis: Typical dose range is 20 mEq per day. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Dilute prior to administration. (2.1, 5.1) Monitor serum potassium and adjust dosage accordingly (2.2, 2.3) If serum potassium concentration is <2.5 mEq/L, use intravenous potassium instead of oral supplementation (2.1) Treatment of hypokalemia: • Adults: Initial doses range from 40-100 mEq/day in 2-5 divided doses: limit doses to 40 mEq per dose. Total daily dose should not exceed 200 mEq (2.2) • Pediatric patients aged birth to 16 years old: 2-4 mEq/kg/day in divided doses; not to exceed 1 mEq/kg as a single dose or 40 mEq whichever is lower; if deficits are severe or ongoing losses are great, consider intravenous therapy. Total daily dose should not exceed 100 mEq (2.3) Maintenance or Prophylaxis of hypokalemia : • Adults: Typical dose is 20 mEq per day (2.2) • Pediatric patients aged birth to 16 years old: typical dose is 1 mEq/kg/day. Do not to exceed 3 mEq/kg/day (2.3) 2.1 Administration and Monitoring Monitoring Monitor serum potassium and adjust dosages accordingly. For treatment of hypokalemia, monitor potassium levels daily or more often depending on the severity of hypokalemia until they return to normal. Monitor potassium levels monthly to biannually for maintenance or prophylaxis. The treatment of potassium depletion, particularly in the presence of cardiac disease, renal disease, or acidosis requires careful attention to acid-base balance, volume status, electrolytes, including magnesium, sodium, chloride, phosphate, and calcium, electrocardiograms and the clinical status of the patient. Correct volume status, acid-base balance and electrolyte deficits as appropriate. Administration Dilute the contents of 1 pouch of potassium chloride for oral solution in at least 4 ounces of cold water [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . Take with meals or immediately after eating. If serum potassium concentration is <2.5 mEq/L, use intravenous potassium instead of oral supplementation. 2.2 Adult Dosing Treatment of hypokalemia: Daily dose range from 40 to 100 mEq. Give in 2 to 5 divided doses: limit doses to 40 mEq per dose. The total daily dose should not exceed 200 mEq in a 24 hour period. Maintenance or Prophylaxis, Typical dose is 20 mEq per day. Individualize dose based upon serum potassium levels. Studies support the use of potassium replacement in digitalis toxicity. When alkalosis is present, normokalemia and hyperkalemia may obscure a total potassium deficit. The advisability of use of potassium replacement in the setting of hyperkalemia is uncertain 2.3 Pediatric Dosing Treatment of hypokalemia: Pediatric patients aged birth to 16 years old: The initial dose is 2 to 4 mEq/kg/day in divided doses; do not exceed as a single dose 1 mEq/kg or 40 mEq, whichever is lower; maximum daily doses should not exceed 100 mEq. If deficits are severe or ongoing losses are great, consider intravenous therapy. Maintenance or Prophylaxis Pediatric patients aged birth to 16 years old: Typical dose is 1 mEq/kg/day. Do not exceed 3 mEq/kg/day. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage and duration are based on the patient’s age, weight, clinical condition, and concomitant therapy. ( 2.1 ) To reduce the risk of air embolism, adhere to the preparation instructions. ( 2.2 , 5.2 ) Ringer’s Injection is for intravenous use ( 2.3 ) Do not administer Ringer’s Injection simultaneously with ceftriaxone in neonates (28 days of age or younger) due to serious risks. ( 2.4 ) See full prescribing information for information dosage considerations, preparation, administration, and drug incompatibilities. ( 2 ) 2.1 Dosage Considerations The recommended dosage and duration of Ringer’s Injection is based on the patient’s age, weight, clinical condition, and concomitant therapy. Evaluate the patient’s clinical status and monitor changes in electrolyte concentrations especially during prolonged use of Ringer’s Injection to optimize clinical status. Fluid administration should be based on calculated maintenance or replacement fluid requirements for each patient. 2.2 Important Preparation Instructions Visually inspect the Ringer’s Injection solution for particulate matter and discoloration. Do not administer Ringer’s Injection unless the solution is clear and the container seals are intact. If additives are determined to be compatible with Ringer’s Injection, then using aseptic technique, mix thoroughly; do not store solutions containing additives. After mixing, do not use if there is discoloration or formation of precipitates. To reduce the risk of air embolism, adhere to the following Ringer’s Injection preparation instructions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] : Use a non-vented infusion set or close the vent on a vented set. Use a dedicated line without any connections (do not connect flexible containers in series). The use of pressure infusion is not recommended as a method to increase flow rates. However, if pressure infusion is required, ensure that any air within the bag is fully evacuated prior to initiation of infusion. If using a pumping device to administer Ringer’s Injection, turn off the pump before the container is empty. Preparation Instructions for EXCEL ® Containers Tear overwrap down at notch and remove solution container. Check for minute leaks by squeezing solution container firmly. If leaks are found, discard solution as sterility may be impaired. If supplemental medication is desired, follow directions below before preparing for administration. Inspect each container. Read the label. Ensure solution is the one ordered and is within the expiration date. Invert container and carefully inspect the solution in good light for cloudiness, haze, or particulate matter. Any container which is suspect should not be used. If supplemental medication is desired, follow directions below [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . Preparation for Administration Remove plastic protector from sterile set port at bottom of container. Attach administration set according to its accompanying directions. 2.3 Important Administration Instructions Ringer’s Injection is for intravenous use. Use immediately after opening the container. Discard the unused portion. It is recommended that intravenous administration apparatus be replaced at least once every 24 hours. Some additives may be incompatible [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . To Add Medication Before Solution Administration Prepare medication site. Using syringe with 18-22 gauge needle, puncture medication port and inner diaphragm and inject. Squeeze and tap ports while ports are upright and mix solution and medication thoroughly. To Add Medication During Solution Administration Close clamp on the set. Prepare medication site. Using syringe with 18-22 gauge needle of appropriate length (at least 5/8 inch), puncture resealable medication port and inner diaphragm and inject. Remove container from IV pole and/or turn to an upright position. Evacuate both ports by tapping and squeezing them while container is in the upright position. Mix solution and medication thoroughly. Return container to in use position and continue administration. 2.4 Drug Incompatibilities Do not administer Ringer’s Injection simultaneously with ceftriaxone in neonates (28 days of age or younger) due to serious risks [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. However, in patients older than 28 days, ceftriaxone and Ringer’s Injection may be administered sequentially if the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Do not administer Ringer’s Injection simultaneously with citrate anticoagulated/preserved blood through the same administration set because of the likelihood of coagulation precipitated by the calcium content of Ringer’s Injection. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Monitor serum potassium and adjust dosage accordingly (2.1) If serum potassium concentration is <2.5 mEq/L, use intravenous potassium instead of oral supplementation. (2.1) Treatment of hypokalemia: Adults: Typical doses range from 40-100 mEq/day in 2-5 divided doses; limit doses to 40 mEq per dose. (2.2) Pediatric patients: 2-4 mEq/kg/day in divided doses not to exceed 1 mEq/kg as a single dose or 20 mEq, whichever is lower; if deficits are severe or ongoing losses are great, consider intravenous therapy. (2.3) Maintenance or Prophylaxis of hypokalemia: Adults: Typical dose is 20 mEq per day (2.2) Pediatric patients: Typical dose is 1 mEq/kg/day. (2.3) 2.1 Administration and Monitoring If serum potassium concentration is <2.5 mEq/L, use intravenous potassium instead of oral supplementation. Administration Take with meals and with a full glass of water or other liquid. Do not take on an empty stomach because of the potential for gastric irritation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Patients who have difficulty swallowing capsules may sprinkle the contents of the capsule onto a spoonful of soft food. The soft food, such as applesauce or pudding, should be swallowed immediately without chewing and followed with a glass of water or juice to ensure complete swallowing of the microcapsules. Do not add to hot foods. Any microcapsule/food mixture should be used immediately and not stored for future use. 2.2 Adult Dosing Dosage must be adjusted to the individual needs of each patient. Treatment of hypokalemia: Typical dose range is 40-100 mEq per day. Maintenance or Prophylaxis: Typical dose is 20 mEq per day. 2.3 Pediatric Dosing Pediatric patients aged birth to 16 years old: Dosage must be adjusted to the individual needs of each patient. Do not exceed as a single dose 1 mEq/kg or 20 mEq, whichever is lower. Treatment of hypokalemia : The recommended initial dose is 2 to 4 mEq/kg/day in divided doses. Maintenance or Prophylaxis : Typical dose is 1 mEq/kg/day. (2.1) Treatment of hypokalemia: Doses range from 40-100 mEq/day in divided doses. (2.2) Prevention of hypokalemia: Typical dose is 20 mEq per day. Administration Take Potassium Chloride Extended-release Tablets, USP with meals and with a glass of water or other liquid. Do not take Potassium Chloride Extended-release Tablets, USP on an empty stomach because of its potential for gastric irritation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Monitor serum potassium and adjust dosages accordingly. ( 2.1 ) If serum potassium concentration is less than 2.5 mEq/L, use intravenous potassium instead of oral supplementation ( 2.1 ) Take with meals and with a glass of water or other liquid. Swallow tablets whole. ( 2.1 ) Treatment of hypokalemia : Typical dose range is 40-100 mEq per day in divided doses. Limit doses to 20 mEq per dose. ( 2.2 ) Prevention of hypokalemia : Typical dose is 20 mEq per day ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Monitoring and Administration If serum potassium concentration is less than 2.5 mEq/L, use intravenous potassium instead of oral supplementation. Monitoring Monitor serum potassium and adjust the dose based on serum potassium level. Do not take on an empty stomach because of its potential for gastric irritation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Dosages greater than 20 mEq per day should be divided such that no more than 20 mEq is given in a single dose. Prevention of hypokalemia: Typical dose is 20 mEq per day. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION This solution should be administered only by intravenous infusion and as directed by the physician. The dose and rate of injection are dependent upon the age, weight and clinical condition of the patient. If the serum potassium level is greater than 2.5 mEq/liter, potassium should be given at a rate not to exceed 10 mEq/hour in a concentration less than 30 mEq/liter. Somewhat faster rates and greater concentrations (usually up to 40 mEq/liter) of potassium may be indicated in patients with more severe potassium deficiency. The total 24-hour dose should not generally exceed 200 mEq of potassium. As reported in the literature, the dosage and constant infusion rate of intravenous dextrose must be selected with caution in pediatric patients, particularly neonates and low birth weight infants, because of the increased risk of hyperglycemia/hypoglycemia. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. See PRECAUTIONS . Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. Directions Use as directed Take 30 minutes away from food. Adults : Acute dose: Chew 1 tablet every 30 minutes until symptoms subside, up to 6 times per day. Maintenance dose: Chew 1 tablet, 4 times daily. Children 6 years and older : Acute dose: Crush ½ tablet, dissolve in water, and take every 30 minutes until symptoms subside, up to 6 times per day. Maintenance dose: Crush ½ tablet, dissolve in water, 4 times per day. DIRECTIONS: Shake bottle 10 times prior to each use. Adults & children above 12 years of age: Take 10 drops under the tongue 3 times per day or as directed by a health care practioner. Children under 12: Consult a health care provider. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The recommended dosage and duration are based on the patient’s age, weight, clinical condition, and concomitant therapy. ( 2.1 ) • To reduce the risk of air embolism, adhere to the preparation instructions. ( 2.2 , 5.2 ) • Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection is for intravenous use. ( 2.3 ) • Use a peripheral vein to administer if the final dextrose concentration is 5% or less, and the osmolarity is less than 900 mOsm/L. ( 2.3 ). • Consider using a central vein to administer hypertonic solutions with osmolarity of 900 mOsm/L or more to avoid venous irritation, including phlebitis. ( 2.3 ) • Do not administer Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection simultaneously with ceftriaxone in neonates (28 days of age or younger) due to serious risks. ( 2.4 ) • See full prescribing information for information dosage considerations, preparation, administration, and drug incompatibilities. ( 2 ) 2.1 Dosage Considerations The recommended dosage and duration of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection is based on the patient’s age, weight, clinical condition, and concomitant therapy. Evaluate the patient’s clinical status and monitor changes in blood glucose and electrolyte concentrations especially during prolonged use of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection to optimize clinical status. 2.2 Important Preparation Instructions Visually inspect the Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection solution for particulate matter and discoloration. Do not administer Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection unless the solution is clear and the container seals are intact. If additives are determined to be compatible with Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection then using aseptic technique, mix thoroughly; do not store solutions containing additives. To reduce the risk of air embolism, adhere to the following preparation instructions for Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] : • Use a non-vented infusion set or close the vent on a vented set. • Use a dedicated line without any connections (do not connect flexible containers in series). • The use of pressure infusion is not recommended as a method to increase flow rates. • If using a pumping device to administer Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection, turn off the pump before the container is empty. Preparation Instructions 1. Tear overwrap downside at slit and remove solution container. 2. Visually inspect the container. o If the outlet port protector is damaged, detached, or not present, discard container as solution path sterility may be impaired. o Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed. This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety. The opacity will diminish gradually. 3. Check for minute leaks by squeezing inner bag firmly. 4. Preparation for Administration 1. Suspend container from eyelet support. Remove protector from outlet port at bottom of container. 2.3 Important Administration Instructions Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection is for intravenous use. Use immediately after removing the overwrap. • Use a peripheral vein to administer Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection if the final dextrose concentration is 5% or less, and the osmolarity is less than 900 mOsm/L. • Consider using a central vein to administer hypertonic solutions with osmolarity of 900 mOsm/L or more to avoid venous irritation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Some additives may be incompatible [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Contraindications (4) ] . To Add Medication Before Solution Administration 1. Using syringe with 19 to 22 gauge needle, puncture resealable medication port and inject. For high density medication such as potassium chloride, squeeze ports while ports are upright and mix thoroughly. To Add Medication During Solution Administration 1. Close clamp on the set. Using syringe with19 to 22 gauge needle, puncture resealable medication port and inject. 5. Evacuate both ports by squeezing them while container is in the upright position. 6. 7. 2.4 Drug Incompatibilities Do not administer Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection simultaneously with ceftriaxone in neonates (28 days of age or younger) due to serious risks [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . However, in patients older than 28 days, ceftriaxone and Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection may be administered sequentially if the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Do not administer Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection simultaneously with citrate anticoagulated/preserved blood through the same administration set because of the likelihood of coagulation precipitated by the calcium content of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection.
Warnings: WARNINGS Solutions which contain potassium ions should be used with great care, if at all, in patients with hyperkalemia, severe renal failure and in conditions in which potassium retention is present. To avoid potassium intoxication, do not infuse these solutions rapidly. In patients with severe renal insufficiency or adrenal insufficiency, administration of potassium chloride may cause potassium intoxication. In patients with diminished renal function, administration of solutions containing potassium ions may result in potassium retention. The intravenous administration of this solution can cause fluid and/or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations, overhydration, congested states or pulmonary edema. The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentration of administered parenteral solutions. The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of such solutions. Warnings Stop use and ask a doctor if : Symptoms persist for more than 7 days or worsen Inflammation, fever or infection is present or develops  Fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days If skin eruptions are severe, or painful, seek the advice of a doctor. If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. WARNINGS: iF PREGNANT OR BREAST-FEEDING, ask a health care professional before use. If symptoms worsen or persist for more than a week, discontinue use and contact a doctor. ​KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Potassium chloride is contraindicated in patients on triamterene and amiloride. Concomitant use with triamterene and amiloride (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Potassium chloride is contraindicated in patients on potassium sparing diuretics. Concomitant use with potassium sparing diuretics. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ringer’s Injection is contraindicated in: Neonates (28 days of age or younger) who are receiving concomitant treatment with ceftriaxone, even if separate infusion lines are used, due to the risk of fatal ceftriaxone-calcium salt precipitation in the neonate’s bloodstream [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Specific Populations (8.4) ] . Patients with known hypersensitivity to any components of Ringer’s Injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Concomitant treatment with ceftriaxone in neonates (28 days of age or younger). ( 4) Patients with known hypersensitivity to Ringer’s Injection. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Potassium chloride extended-release capsules are contraindicated in patients on amiloride or triamterene. Concomitant use with triamterene and amiloride. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Potassium chloride is contraindicated in patients on triamterene or amiloride. Concomitant use with triamterene and amiloride ( 4 , 7.1 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Solutions containing potassium chloride are contraindicated in diseases where high potassium levels may be encountered. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection is contraindicated in: • Neonates (28 days of age or younger) who are receiving concomitant treatment with ceftriaxone, even if separate infusion lines are used, due to the risk of fatal ceftriaxone-calcium salt precipitation in the neonate’s bloodstream [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Specific Populations (8.4) ] . • Patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the components of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s solution and Dextrose (5%) Injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . • Patients with clinically significant hyperkalemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . • Patients with clinically significant hyperglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . • Concomitant treatment with ceftriaxone in neonates (28 days of age or younger). ( 4 ) • Patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the components of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s solution and Dextrose (5%) Injection ( 4 ) • Patients with clinically significant hyperkalemia ( 4 ). • Patients with clinically significant hyperglycemia ( 4 ).
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Triamterene and amiloride: Concomitant use is contraindicated (7.1) Renin-angiotensin-aldosterone inhibitors: Monitor for hyperkalemia (7.2) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs: Monitor for hyperkalemia (7.3) 7.1 Triamterene or amiloride Use with triamterene or amiloride can produce severe hyperkalemia. Concomitant use is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ]. 7.2 Renin-angiotensin-aldosterone Inhibitors Drugs that inhibit the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) including angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), spironolactone, eplerenone, or aliskiren produce potassium retention by inhibiting aldosterone production. Closely monitor potassium in patients on concomitant RAAS inhibitors. 7.3 Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) NSAIDS may produce potassium retention by reducing renal synthesis of prostaglandin E and imparing the renin-angiotensin system. Closely monitor potassium in patients on concomitant NSAIDs. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Potassium sparing diuretics: Avoid concomitant use (7.1) Renin-angiotensin-aldosterone inhibitors: Monitor for hyperkalemia (7.2) Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory drugs: Monitor for hyperkalemia (7.3) 7.1 Potassium-Sparing Diuretics Use with potassium-sparing diuretic can produce severe hyperkalemia. Avoid concomitant use. 7.2 Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System Inhibitors Drugs that inhibit the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) including angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), spironolactone, eplerenone, or aliskiren produce potassium retention by inhibiting aldosterone production. Closely monitor potassium in patients receiving concomitant RAAS therapy. 7.3 Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) NSAIDS may produce potassium retention by reducing renal synthesis of prostaglandin E and impairing the renin-angiotensin system. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that Affect Electrolyte and/or Fluid Balance : Avoid concomitant use. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, closely monitor electrolyte concentrations and fluid balance. ( 7.1 ) Lithium : Avoid concomitant use. If concomitant use is unavoidable monitor serum lithium concentrations more frequently. ( 7.2 ) Digoxin : Consider reducing the volume or rate of Ringer’s Injection due to the increased risk of digoxin toxicity with calcium-containing solutions. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Drugs that Affect Electrolyte and/or Fluid Balance Hyperkalemia Administration of Ringer’s Injection to patients concomitantly treated or recently treated with drugs that are associated with hyperkalemia increases the risk of severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of other hyperkalemia risk factors . Avoid use of Ringer’s Injection in patients receiving drugs that are associated with hyperkalemia (e.g., potassium-sparing diuretics, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or calcineurin inhibitors). If concomitant use cannot be avoided, closely monitor serum potassium concentrations during concomitant use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Hyponatremia Administration of Ringer’s Injection to patients treated concomitantly with drugs associated with hyponatremia may increase the risk of developing hyponatremia. These drugs include diuretics and those that cause SIADH (e.g., arginine vasopressin analogs, certain antiepileptic, psychotropic, or cytotoxic drugs). Avoid use of Ringer’s Injection in patients receiving such drugs. If use cannot be avoided, closely monitor serum sodium concentrations during concomitant use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Hypercalcemia Avoid the use of Ringer’s Injection in patients treated with thiazide diuretics or vitamin D because these drugs can increase the risk of hypercalcemia. If use cannot be avoided, closely monitor serum calcium concentrations during concomitant use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Hypernatremia and Fluid Retention Administration of Ringer’s Injection to patients treated concomitantly with drugs associated with sodium and fluid retention (e.g., corticosteroids or corticotropin) may increase the risk of hypernatremia and volume overload. If use cannot be avoided, closely monitor serum electrolytes, fluid balance, and acid-base balance during concomitant use. 7.2 Lithium Renal sodium and lithium clearance may be increased during concomitant use of Ringer’s Injection and lithium and may result in decreased lithium concentrations. Avoid use of Ringer’s Injection in patients receiving lithium. If use cannot be avoided, increase the frequency of monitoring of serum lithium concentrations during concomitant use. 7.3 Digoxin Administration of calcium via use of Ringer’s Injection may increase digoxin’s effects and lead to digoxin toxicity including serious or fatal cardiac arrhythmias. In digoxin-treated patients, consider reducing the volume and/or rate of Ringer’s Injection administration . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Triamterene and amiloride: Concomitant use is contraindicated (7.1) Renin-angiotensin-aldosterone inhibitors: Monitor for hyperkalemia (7.2) Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS): Monitor for hyperkalemia (7.3) 7.1 Amiloride and Triamterene Use with triamterene or amiloride can produce severe hyperkalemia. 7.2 Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone Inhibitors Drugs that inhibit the renin-angiotensin-aldosternone system (RAAS) including angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), spironolactone, eplerenone, or aliskiren produces potassium retention by inhibiting aldosterone production. Closely monitor potassium in patients taking drugs that inhibit RAAS. Closely monitor potassium in patients taking NSAIDS. Concomitant use is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system inhibitors: Monitor for hyperkalemia ( 7.2 ) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs: Monitor for hyperkalemia ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Triamterene and Amiloride Use with triamterene or amiloride can produce severe hyperkalemia. Avoid concomitant use [see Contraindications (4) ] . 7.3 Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may produce potassium retention by reducing renal synthesis of prostaglandin E and impairing the renin-angiotensin system. Closely monitor potassium in patients receiving concomitant NSAID therapy. Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Drugs that Affect Electrolyte and/or Fluid Balance : Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) • Lithium : Avoid concomitant use. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor serum lithium concentrations more frequently. ( 7.2 ) • Digoxin : Consider reducing the volume or rate of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection due to the increased risk of digoxin toxicity with calcium-containing solutions. ( 7.3 ) • Drugs with pH-Dependent Renal Elimination : Renal clearance of acidic drugs may be increased. In contrast, renal clearance of alkaline drugs may be decreased. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Drugs that Affect Electrolyte and/or Fluid Balance Hyperkalemia Administration of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection to patients concomitantly treated or recently treated with drugs that are associated with hyperkalemia increases the risk of severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of other hyperkalemia risk factors. Avoid use of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection in patients receiving drugs that are associated with hyperkalemia (e.g., potassium-sparing diuretics, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or calcineurin inhibitors). Hyponatremia Administration of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection to patients treated concomitantly with drugs associated with hyponatremia may increase the risk of developing hyponatremia. Avoid use of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection in patients receiving such drugs. If use cannot be avoided, closely monitor serum sodium concentrations during concomitant use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Hypercalcemia Avoid the use of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection in patients treated with thiazide diuretics or vitamin D because these drugs can increase the risk of hypercalcemia. If use cannot be avoided, closely monitor serum calcium concentrations during concomitant use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Hypernatremia and Fluid Retention Administration of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection to patients treated concomitantly with drugs associated with sodium and fluid retention (e.g., corticosteroids or corticotropin) may increase the risk of hypernatremia and volume overload. 7.2 Lithium Renal sodium and lithium clearance may be increased during concomitant use of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection and lithium and may result in decreased lithium concentrations. Avoid use of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection in patients receiving lithium. 7.3 Digoxin Administration of calcium via use of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection may increase digoxin’s effects and lead to digoxin toxicity including serious or fatal cardiac arrhythmias. In digoxin-treated patients, consider reducing the volume and/or rate of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection administration. 7.4 Drugs with pH-Dependent Renal Elimination Due to the alkalinizing action of lactate (formation of bicarbonate), Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection may interfere with the elimination of drugs with pH-dependent renal elimination. Renal clearance of alkaline drugs may be decreased. In contrast, renal clearance of acidic drugs may be increased. 7.5 Interference of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection with Interpretation of Serum Lactate Levels in Patients with Severe Metabolic Acidosis Because administration of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection may interfere with the interpretation of serum lactate levels in patients with severe metabolic acidosis, including lactic acidosis, assessment of the patient’s clinical status should not solely rely on the measurement of serum lactate.

=== ALUMINUM ZIRCONIUM TETRACHLOROHYDREX GLY ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose antiperspirant
Indications: Uses • reduces underarm wetness Uses • reduces underarm wetness • 48 Hour Protection Uses reduces underarm wetness 24 hour protection
Dosage: Directions apply to underarms only
Warnings: Warnings • For external use only. • Do not use on broken skin . • Ask a doctor before use if you have kidney disease. • Stop use if rash or irritation occurs. Warnings For external use only Do not use on broken skin Ask a doctor before use if you have kidney disease Stop use if rash or irritation occurs Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.

=== MICONAZOLE NITRATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antifungal Purpose Vaginal antifungal
Indications: Uses cures most athlete's foot (linea pedis), ringworm (linea corporis) and jock itch (linea cruris) relieves symptoms of athlete's foot, including itching, burning and cracking Uses for the treatment of most athlete's foot (tinea pedis), jock itch (tinea cruris), ringworm (tinea corporis) relieves most itching, scaling, cracking, burning, redness, soreness, irritation, discomfort and chafing associated with jock itch Uses cures most jock itch (tinea cruris) relieves itching, burning and chafing associated with jock itch Uses cures most athlete's foot (tinea pedis), ringworm (tinea corporis) and jock itch (tinea cruris) relieves itching, burning and scaling Uses for the cure of most athlete's foot, jock itch and ringworm Uses Uses • For the treatment and prevention of most: • Athlete’s foot • Jock itch • Ringworm • Relieves itching, scaling, cracking, and discomfort associated with these conditions Uses • treats vaginal yeast infections
Dosage: Directions wash affected area and dry thoroughly shake can well and spray a thin layer over affected area twice daily (morning and night) or as directed by a doctor supervise children in the use of this product for athlete's foot: pay special attention to spaces between the toes; wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes, and change shoes and socks at least once daily use daily for 4 weeks for athlete's foot and ringworm; use daily for 2 weeks for jock itch; if conditions persists, consult a doctor this product is not effective on the scalp or nails if nozzle clogs, clean with a pin Directions Clean the affected area and dry thoroughly Apply a thin layer of powder over affected area twice daily (morning and night) or as directed by a doctor Supervise children in the use of this product For athlete's foot, pay special attention between spaces in toes; wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes, and change shoes and socks at least once daily For athlete's foot and ringworm, use daily for 4 weeks For jock itch, use daily for 2 weeks If condition persists longer, consult a doctor This product is not effective on the scalp or nails. Directions wash affected area and dry thoroughly shake can well and spray a thin layer over affected area twice daily (morning and night) supervise children in the use of this product for athlete's foot: pay special attention to spaces between the toes; wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes, and change shoes and socks at least once daily use daily for 4 weeks for athlete's foot and ringworm; use daily for 2 weeks for jock itch, if conditions persist, consult a doctor this product is not effective on the scalp or nails in nozzle clogs, clean with a pin Directions wash affected area and dry thoroughly shake can well and spray a thin layer over affected area twice daily (morning and night) or as directed by a doctor supervise children in the use of this product use daily for 2 weeks; if condition persists, consult a doctor this product is not effective on the scalp or nails if nozzle clogs, clean with a pin Directions wash affected area and dry thoroughly shake can well and spray a thin layer over affected area twice daily (morning and night) or as directed by a doctor supervise children in the use of this product for athlete's foot: pay special attention to spaces between the toes; wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes, and change shoes and socks at least once daily for athlete's foot and ringworm, use daily for 4 weeks; for jock itch, use daily for 2 weeks if condition persists longer, consult a doctor this product is not effective on the scalp or nails Directions clean the affected area and dry thoroughly apply a thin layer of product over affected area twice daily (morning and night) or as directed by a doctor supervise children in the use of this product for athlete's foot: pay special attention to spaces between the toes; wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes, and change shoes and socks at least once daily for athlete's foot and ringworm, use daily for 4 weeks; for jock itch, use daily for 2 weeks if conditions persist longer, consult a doctor this product is not effective on the scalp or nails Directions Clean the affected area and dry thoroughly • Apply a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily (morning and night) or as directed by a healthcare professional • Supervise children in the use of this product. For athlete's foot: • Use daily for 4 weeks. If condition persists, consult a healthcare professional. • Pay special attention to the spaces between the toes • Wear well fitting, ventilated shoes • Change socks atleast once daily. For ringworm: Use daily for 4 weeks. For jock itch: Use daily for 2 weeks. If condition persists longer, consult a healthcare professional. This product is not effective on the scalp or nails. Directions clean the affected area and dry thoroughly apply a thin layer of product over affected area twice daily (morning and night) or as directed by a doctor supervise children in the use of this product for athlete’s foot: pay special attention to spaces between the toes; wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes, & change shoes & socks at least once daily for athlete's foot and ringworm, use daily for 4 weeks; for jock itch, use daily for 2 weeks if conditions persist longer, consult a doctor this product is not effective on the scalp or nails Directions • before using this product read the enclosed consumer information leaflet for complete directions and information • adults and children 12 years of age and over: • insert 1 applicatorful into the vagina at bedtime for 3 nights in a row. Throw applicator away after use. • children under 12 years of age: ask a doctor
Warnings: For external use only. Flammable: Do not use while smoking or near heat or flame. Do not puncture or incinerate. Contents under pressure. Do not store at temperature above 120ºF. Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling contents can be harmful or fatal. When using this product avoid contact with the eyes or mouth use only as directed Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation occurs no improvement within 4 weeks for athlete's foot and ringworm; 2 weeks for jock itch Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor. Warnings For external use only Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor on scalp or nails When using this product avoid contact with the eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation occurs there is no improvement within 4 weeks when used for the treatment of athlete's foot or ringworm there is no improvement within 2 weeks when used for the treatment of jock itch Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control center right away. Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling contents cans be harmful or fatal. When using this product do not get into eyes or mouth use only as directed Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation occurs no improvement within 4 weeks for athlete's foot and ringworm; 2 weeks for jock itch Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor. Keep out of reach of children. Warnings For external use only. Do not store at temperature above 120°F. When using this product do not get into eyes or mouth use only as directed Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation occurs no improvement within 2 weeks Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor. Extremely flammable: Contents under pressure. Keep away from fire, sparks, and heated surfaces. Do not puncture or incinerate container. Exposure to temperatures above 120°F may cause bursting. Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal. When using this product avoid contact with the eyes or mouth use only as directed Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation occurs no improvement within 4 weeks for athlete's foot and ringworm, and 2 weeks for jock itch Keep out of reach of children. When using this product avoid contact with the eyes Stop and ask a doctor if irritation occurs or there is no improvement within 4 weeks for athlete's foot and ringworm, or 2 weeks for jock itch. Warnings For external use only Warnings For vaginal use only Do not use if you have never had a vaginal yeast infection diagnosed by a doctor. Ask a doctor before use if you have • vaginal itching and discomfort for the first time • lower abdominal, back or shoulder pain, fever, chills, nausea, vomiting, or foul-smelling vaginal discharge. You may have a more serious condition. • vaginal yeast infections often (such as once a month or 3 in 6 months). You could be pregnant or have a serious underlying medical cause for your symptoms, including diabetes or a weakened immune system. • been exposed to the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) that causes AIDS Ask a doctor pharmacist before use if you are taking the prescription blood thinning medicine warfarin, because bleeding or bruising may occur. When using this product • do not use tampons, douches, spermicides or other vaginal products. Condoms and diaphragms may be damaged and fail to prevent pregnancy or sexually transmitted diseases (STDs). • do not have vaginal intercourse • mild increase in vaginal burning, itching or irritation may occur • if you do not get complete relief ask a doctor before using another product Stop use and ask a doctor if: • symptoms do not get better in 3 days • symptoms last more than 7 days • you get a rash or hives, abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea, vomiting, or foul-smelling vaginal discharge If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222).

=== AMOXICILLIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium is indicated for the treatment of infections in adults and pediatric patients, due to susceptible isolates of the designated bacteria in the conditions listed below: Lower Respiratory Tract Infections - caused by beta‑lactamase–producing isolates of Haemophilus influenzae and Moraxella catarrhalis . Acute Bacterial Otitis Media - caused by beta‑lactamase–producing isolates of H. influenzae and M. catarrhalis . Sinusitis - caused by beta‑lactamase–producing isolates of H. Skin and Skin Structure Infections - caused by beta‑lactamase–producing isolates of Staphylococcus aureus , Escherichia coli , and Klebsiella species. Urinary Tract Infections - caused by beta‑lactamase–producing isolates of E. coli , Klebsiella species, and Enterobacter species. Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium is a combination of amoxicillin, a penicillin-class antibacterial and clavulanate potassium, a beta‑lactamase inhibitor indicated for treatment of the following infections in adults and pediatric patients: ( 1 ) Lower respiratory tract infections Acute bacterial otitis media Sinusitis Skin and skin structure infections Urinary tract infections Limitations of Use When susceptibility test results show susceptibility to amoxicillin, indicating no beta-lactamase production, Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium should not be used. ( 1 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium and other antibacterial drugs, Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use When susceptibility test results show susceptibility to amoxicillin, indicating no beta-lactamase production, Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium should not be used. Usage To reduce the development of drug‑resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium and other antibacterial drugs, Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Adults and Pediatric Patients Upper Respiratory Tract Infections of the Ear, Nose, and Throat: Amoxicillin tablets are indicated in the treatment of infections due to susceptible (ONLY β-lactamase-negative) isolates of Streptococcus species. (α- and β-hemolytic isolates only), Streptococcus pneumoniae , Staphylococcus spp., or Haemophilus influenzae . Infections of the Genitourinary Tract: Amoxicillin tablets are indicated in the treatment of infections due to susceptible (ONLY β-lactamase–negative) isolates of Escherichia coli, Proteus mirabilis , or Enterococcus faecalis . Infections of the Skin and Skin Structure: Amoxicillin tablets are indicated in the treatment of infections due to susceptible (ONLY β-lactamase–negative) isolates of Streptococcus spp. (α- and β-hemolytic isolates only), Staphylococcus spp., or E. coli . Infections of the Lower Respiratory Tract: Amoxicillin tablets are indicated in the treatment of infections due to susceptible (ONLY β-lactamase–negative) isolates of Streptococcus spp. (α- and β-hemolytic isolates only), S. pneumoniae, Staphylococcus spp., or H. influenzae . Adult Patients only Helicobacter pylori Infection and Duodenal Ulcer Disease: Triple therapy for Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) with clarithromycin and lansoprazole: Amoxicillin tablets, in combination with clarithromycin plus lansoprazole as triple therapy, are indicated for the treatment of patients with H. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease (active or 1-year history of a duodenal ulcer) to eradicate H. pylori . Eradication of H. pylori has been shown to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence. Dual therapy for H. pylori with lansoprazole : Amoxicillin tablets, in combination with lansoprazole delayed-release capsules as dual therapy, are indicated for the treatment of patients with H. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease (active or 1-year history of a duodenal ulcer) who are either allergic or intolerant to clarithromycin or in whom resistance to clarithromycin is known or suspected . (See the clarithromycin package insert, MICROBIOLOGY.) Eradication of H. Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, amoxicillin tablets should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. Amoxicillin tablets are a penicillin-class antibacterial indicated for treatment of infections due to susceptible strains of designated microorganisms. ( 1 ) Adults and Pediatric Patients ( 1 ) Upper Respiratory Tract Infections of the Ear, Nose, and Throat Infections of the Genitourinary Tract Infections of the Skin and Skin Structure Infections of the Lower Respiratory Tract Adult Patients only ( 1 ) Helicobacter pylori Infection and Duodenal Ulcer Disease Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, amoxicillin tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1 ) INDICATIONS & USAGE SECTION To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin for oral suspension, USP and other antibacterial drugs, amoxicillin for oral suspension, USP should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. Amoxicillin for oral suspension, USP is indicated in the treatment of infections due to susceptible (ONLY β-lactamase–negative) isolates of the designated bacteria in the conditions listed below: 1.1 Infections of the Ear, Nose, and Throatdue to Streptococcus species (α- and β-hemolytic isolates only), Streptococcus pneumoniae, Staphylococcus spp., or Haemophilus influenzae.1.2 Infections of the Genitourinary Tract due to Escherichia coli, Proteus mirabilis, or Enterococcus faecalis.1.3 Infections of the Skin and Skin Structuredue to Streptococcus spp. coli.1.4 Infections of the Lower Respiratory Tractdue to Streptococcus spp. influenzae.1.5 Gonorrhea, Acute Uncomplicated (ano-genital and urethral infections) due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae. Because of high rates of amoxicillin resistance, amoxicillin for oral suspension, USP is not recommended for empiric treatment of gonorrhea. Amoxicillin for oral suspension, USP use should be limited to situations where N. gonorrhoeae isolates are known to be susceptible to amoxicillin.1.6 Triple Therapy for Helicobacter pylori with Clarithromycin and Lansoprazole Amoxicillin for oral suspension, USP, in combination with clarithromycin plus lansoprazole as triple therapy, is indicated for the treatment of patients with H. pylori. pylori has been shown to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence.1.7 Dual Therapy for H. pylori with Lansoprazole Amoxicillin for oral suspension, USP, in combination with lansoprazole delayed-release capsules as dual therapy, is indicated for the treatment of patients with H. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease (active or 1-year history of a duodenal ulcer) who are either allergic or intolerant to clarithromycin or in whom resistance to clarithromycin is known or suspected. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and other antibacterial drugs, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, USP, for oral suspension, USP, and chewable tablets, USP are a combination penicillin-class antibacterial and beta-lactamase inhibitor indicated in the treatment of infections due to susceptible isolates of the designated bacteria in the conditions listed below: Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, USP, for oral suspension, USP, and chewable tablets, USP are a combination penicillin-class antibacterial and beta-lactamase inhibitor indicated for treatment of the following: • Lower respiratory tract infections ( 1.1 ) • Acute bacterial otitis media ( 1.2 ) • Sinusitis ( 1.3 ) • Skin and skin structure infections ( 1.4 ) • Urinary tract infections ( 1.5 ) 1.1 Lower Respiratory Tract Infections Caused by beta-lactamase–producing isolates of Haemophilus influenzae and Moraxella catarrhalis . 1.2 Acute Bacterial Otitis Media Caused by beta-lactamase–producing isolates of H. 1.3 Sinusitis Caused by beta-lactamase–producing isolates of H. 1.4 Skin and Skin Structure Infections Caused by beta-lactamase–producing isolates of Staphylococcus aureus , Escherichia coli , and Klebsiella species. 1.5 Urinary Tract Infections Caused by beta-lactamase–producing isolates of E. 1.6 Limitations of Use When susceptibility test results show susceptibility to amoxicillin, indicating no beta-lactamase production, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should not be used. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is indicated for the treatment of infections in adults and pediatric patients, due to susceptible isolates of the designated bacteria in the conditions listed below: • Lower Respiratory Tract Infections - caused by beta‑lactamase‑producing isolates of Haemophilus influenzae and Moraxella catarrhalis . • Acute Bacterial Otitis Media - caused by beta‑lactamase‑producing isolates of H. • Sinusitis - caused by beta‑lactamase‑producing isolates of H. • Skin and Skin Structure Infections - caused by beta‑lactamase‑producing isolates of Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, and Klebsiella species . • Urinary Tract Infections - caused by beta‑lactamase‑producing isolates of E. coli, Klebsiella species , and Enterobacter species. Limitations of Use When susceptibility test results show susceptibility to amoxicillin, indicating no beta-lactamase production, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should not be used. Usage To reduce the development of drug‑resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and other antibacterial drugs, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is a combination of amoxicllin, a penicillin-class antibacterial and clavulanate potassium, a beta‑lactamase inhibitor indicated for treatment of the following infections in adults and pediatric patients: ( 1 ) • Lower respiratory tract infections • Acute bacterial otitis media • Sinusitis • Skin and skin structure infections • Urinary tract infections Limitations of Use When susceptibility test results show susceptibility to amoxicillin, indicating no beta-lactamase production, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should not be used. ( 1 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and other antibacterial drugs, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin and other antibacterial drugs, amoxicillin should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. Amoxicillin Capsules are indicated in the treatment of infections due to susceptible (ONLY β-lactamase–negative) isolates of the designated bacteria in the conditions listed below: Amoxicillin Capsules are a penicillin-class antibacterial indicated for treatment of infections due to susceptible strains of designated microorganisms. Infections of the ear, nose, throat, genitourinary tract, skin and skin structure, and lower respiratory tract. ( 1.1 – 1.5 ) In combination for treatment of H. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease. ( 1.6 , 1.7 ) 1.1 Infectio ns of the ear, nose, and throat – due to Streptococcus species, (α- and β-hemolytic isolates only), Streptococcus pneumoniae , Staphylococcus spp., or Haemophilus influenzae . 1.2 Infections of the genitourinar y tract – due to Escherichia coli, Proteus mirabilis , or Enterococcus faecalis . 1.3 Infections of the skin and skin structure – due to Streptococcus spp. 1.4 Infections of the lower respir atory tract – due to Streptococcus spp. 1.5 Gonorrhea, acute uncomplicated (ano-genital and urethral i nfections in males and females) – due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae . Because of high rates of amoxicillin resistance, Amoxicillin Capsules are not recommended for empiric treatment of gonorrhea. Amoxicillin Capsules use should be limited to situations where N. gonorrhoeae isolates are known to be susceptible to amoxicillin. 1.6 Triple therapy for Helicobacter pylori with clarithromycin and lansoprazole Amoxicillin Capsules in combination with clarithromycin plus lansoprazole as triple therapy, is indicated for the treatment of patients with H. 1.7 Dual therapy for H. pylori with lansoprazole Amoxicillin Capsules in combination with lansoprazole delayed-release capsules as dual therapy, is indicated for the treatment of patients with H. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) are indicated for the treatment of infections in adults and pediatric patients, due to susceptible isolates of the designated bacteria in the conditions listed below: Lower Respiratory Tract Infections – caused by beta–lactamase–producing isolates of Haemophilus influenzae and Moraxella catarrhalis . Acute Bacterial Otitis Media – caused by beta–lactamase–producing isolates of H. Sinusitis – caused by beta–lactamase–producing isolates of H. Skin and Skin Structure Infections – caused by beta–lactamase–producing isolates of Staphylococcus aureus , Escherichia coli , and Klebsiella species. Urinary Tract Infections – caused by beta–lactamase–producing isolates of E. Limitations of Use When susceptibility test results show susceptibility to amoxicillin, indicating no beta–lactamase production, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) should not be used. Usage To reduce the development of drug–resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and other antibacterial drugs, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) are combination of amoxicillin, a penicillin–class antibacterial and clavulanate potassium, a beta–lactamase inhibitor indicated for treatment of the following infections in adults and pediatric patients: ( 1 ) Lower respiratory tract infections Acute bacterial otitis media Sinusitis Skin and skin structure infections Urinary tract infections Limitations of Use When susceptibility test results show susceptibility to amoxicillin, indicating no beta–lactamase production, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) should not be used. ( 1 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug–resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) and other antibacterial drugs, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE AUGMENTIN is indicated for the treatment of infections in adults and pediatric patients, due to susceptible isolates of the designated bacteria in the conditions listed below: Lower Respiratory Tract Infections - caused by beta‑lactamase–producing isolates of Haemophilus influenzae and Moraxella catarrhalis . AUGMENTIN is a combination of amoxicillin, a penicillin-class antibacterial and clavulanate potassium, a beta‑lactamase inhibitor indicated for treatment of the following infections in adults and pediatric patients: ( 1 ) Lower respiratory tract infections Acute bacterial otitis media Sinusitis Skin and skin structure infections Urinary tract infections Limitations of Use When susceptibility test results show susceptibility to amoxicillin, indicating no beta-lactamase production, AUGMENTIN should not be used. ( 1 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of AUGMENTIN and other antibacterial drugs, AUGMENTIN should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use When susceptibility test results show susceptibility to amoxicillin, indicating no beta-lactamase production, AUGMENTIN should not be used. Usage To reduce the development of drug‑resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of AUGMENTIN and other antibacterial drugs, AUGMENTIN should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Adults and Pediatric Patients Upper Respiratory Tract Infections of the Ear, Nose, and Throat: Amoxicillin tablets are indicated in the treatment of infections due to susceptible (ONLY β-lactamase–negative) isolates of Streptococcus species. (α-and β-hemolytic isolates only), Streptococcus pneumoniae , Staphylococcus spp., or Haemophilus influenzae . Infections of the Genitourinary Tract: Amoxicillin tablets are indicated in the treatment of infections due to susceptible (ONLY β-lactamase–negative) isolates of Escherichia coli , Proteus mirabilis , or Enterococcus faecalis . (α-and β-hemolytic isolates only), Staphylococcus spp., or E. (α-and β-hemolytic isolates only), S. pneumoniae , Staphylococcus spp., or H. pylori) with clarithromycin and lansoprazole : Amoxicillin tablets, in combination with clarithromycin plus lansoprazole as triple therapy, is indicated for the treatment of patients with H. pylori with lansoprazole : Amoxicillin tablets, in combination with lansoprazole delayed-release capsules as dual therapy, is indicated for the treatment of patients with H. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Adults and Pediatric Patients Upper Respiratory Tract Infections of the Ear, Nose, and Throat: Amoxicillin capsules are indicated in the treatment of infections due to susceptible (ONLY β- lactamase–negative) isolates of Streptococcus species. Infections of the Genitourinary Tract: Amoxicillin capsules are indicated in the treatment of infections due to susceptible (ONLY β-lactamase–negative) isolates of Escherichia coli, Proteus mirabilis , or Enterococcus faecalis . Infections of the Skin and Skin Structure: Amoxicillin capsules are indicated in the treatment of infections due to susceptible (ONLY β-lactamase–negative) isolates of Streptococcus spp. Infections of the Lower Respiratory Tract: Amoxicillin capsules are indicated in the treatment of infections due to susceptible (ONLY β-lactamase–negative) isolates of Streptococcus spp. pylori) with clarithromycin and lansoprazole : Amoxicillin capsules in combination with clarithromycin plus lansoprazole as triple therapy, is indicated for the treatment of patients with H. pylori with lansoprazole : Amoxicillin capsules, in combination with lansoprazole delayed-release capsules as dual therapy, is indicated for the treatment of patients with H. Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin capsules and other antibacterial drugs, amoxicillin capsules should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. Amoxicillin capsules are a penicillin-class antibacterial indicated for treatment of infections due to susceptible strains of designated microorganisms. ( 1 ) Adults and Pediatric Patients ( 1 ) Upper Respiratory Tract Infections of the Ear, Nose, and Throat Infections of the Genitourinary Tract Infections of the Skin and Skin Structure Infections of the Lower Respiratory Tract Adult Patients only ( 1 ) Helicobacter pylori Infection and Duodenal Ulcer Disease Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin capsules and other antibacterial drugs, amoxicillin capsules should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and Pediatric Patients greater than 40 kg: 500 or 875 mg every 12 hours or 250 or 500 mg every 8 hours, based on the amoxicillin component. ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) Pediatric patients aged 12 weeks (3 months) and older: 25 to 45 mg/kg/day every 12 hours or 20 to 40 mg/kg/day every 8 hours, up to the adult dose. ( 2.3 ) Neonates and infants less than 12 weeks of age: 30 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours, based on the amoxicillin component. Use of the 125 mg/5 mL oral suspension is recommended. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium may be taken without regard to meals; however, absorption of clavulanate potassium is enhanced when Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium is administered at the start of a meal. To minimize the potential for gastrointestinal intolerance, Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium should be taken at the start of a meal. 2.2 Adult Patients See dosing regimens of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium (based on the amoxicillin component) provided in Table 1 below. Table 1. Dosing Regimens of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium in Adult Patients TYPE OF INFECTION DOSING REGIMEN OF Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Severe infections and infections of the respiratory tract one 875 mg tablet a of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium every 12 hours or one 500 mg tablet b,c of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium every 8 hours Less severe infections one 500 mg tablet b,c of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium every 12 hours or one 250 mg tablet d of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium every 8 hours a Adults who have difficulty swallowing may be given the Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL suspension or the Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL suspension may be used in place of the 875 mg/125 mg tablet. b Adults who have difficulty swallowing may be given the Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL or Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 250 mg/62.5 mg per 5 mL suspension in place of the 500 mg/125 mg tablet. c Two Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 250 mg/125 mg tablets are NOT substitutable with one 500 mg/125 mg Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium tablet [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )] . d Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 250 mg/125 mg tablet is NOT substitutable with Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )] 2.3 Pediatric Patients Based on the amoxicillin component, Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium should be dosed as follows: Neonates and Infants Aged less than 12 weeks (less than 3 months) : See dosing regimens of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium provided in Table 2 below. Table 2: Dosing Regimens of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium in Neonates and Infants Aged Less than 12 Weeks (Less than 3 Months) PATIENT POPULATION DOSING REGIMEN Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension a Neonates and Infants aged less than 12 weeks (less than 3 months) 30 mg/kg/day every 12 hours a Experience with the Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL formulation in this age group is limited, and thus, use of the Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension is recommended. Patients Aged 12 weeks (3 months) and Older and Weighing Less than 40 kg : See dosing regimens provided in Table 3 below. The every 12 hour regimen is recommended as it is associated with significantly less diarrhea [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . The Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL and Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL) for oral suspension and Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg and Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 400 mg/57 mg chewable tablets contain aspartame and should not be used by phenylketonurics. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )]. Table 3: Dosing in Patients Aged 12 Weeks (3 Months) and Older and Weighing Less than 40 kg a Each strength of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium oral suspension is available as a chewable tablet for use by older children. b Duration of therapy studied and recommended for acute otitis media is 10 days. INFECTION DOSING REGIMEN Every 12 hours Every 8 hours Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL or Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL oral suspension a Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL or Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 250 mg/62.5 mg per 5 mL oral suspension a Otitis media b , sinusitis, lower respiratory tract infections, and more severe infections 45 mg/kg/day every 12 hours 40 mg/kg/day every 8 hours Less severe infections 25 mg/kg/day every 12 hours 20 mg/kg/day every 8 hours Patients Weighing 40 kg or More : Pediatric patients weighing 40 kg or more should be dosed according to adult recommendations. The 250 mg/125 mg tablet of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium should NOT be used until the child weighs at least 40 kg, due to the different amoxicillin to clavulanic acid ratios in the 250 mg/125 mg tablet of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium versus the 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium. 2.4 Patients with Renal Impairment Patients with impaired renal function do not generally require a reduction in dose unless the impairment is severe. Renal impairment patients with a glomerular filtration rate (GFR) of less than 30 mL/min should NOT receive the 875 mg dose (based on the amoxicillin component) of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium. See dosing regimens in patients with severe renal impairment provided in Table 4. Table 4. Dosing Regimens of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium in Patients with Severe Renal Impairment Patients with Renal Impairment Dosing Regimen GFR 10 mL/min to 30 mL/min 500 mg or 250 mg every 12 hours, depending on the severity of the infection GFR less than 10 mL/min 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours, depending on severity of the infection Hemodialysis 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours, depending on severity of the infection Administer an additional dose both during and at the end of dialysis 2.5 Directions for Mixing Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension Prepare Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for oral suspension at time of dispensing as follows: Tap bottle until all powder flows freely. Measure a total (see Table 5 below for total amount of water for reconstitution) OF WATER. Add approximately 2/3 of the water to the powder. Replace cap and shake VIGOROUSLY. Add remaining water. Table 5: Amount of Water for Mixing Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension Strength of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassiumfor Oral Suspension Bottle Size Amount of Water for Reconstitution Contents of Each Teaspoonful (5 mL) 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL 75 mL 100 mL 150 mL 67 mL 90 mL 134 mL 125 mg of amoxicillin and 31.25 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL 50 mL 75 mL 100 mL 50 mL 75 mL 95 mL 200 mg of amoxicillin and 28.5 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt 250 mg/62.5 mg per 5 mL 75 mL 100 mL 150 mL 65 mL 87 mL 130 mL 250 mg of amoxicillin and 62.5 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL 50 mL 75 mL 100 mL 50 mL 70 mL 90 mL 400 mg of amoxicillin and 57 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt Shake oral suspension well before using. Reconstituted suspension must be stored under refrigeration and discarded after 10 days. Some color change is normal during dosing period. 2.6 Switching between Dosage Forms and between Strengths Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 250 mg/125 mg Tablet is NOT Substitutable with Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 250 mg/62.5 mg Chewable Tablet The 250 mg/125 mg tablet of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium and the 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium should NOT be substituted for each other and the 250 mg/125 mg tablet of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium should NOT be used in pediatric patients weighing less than 40 kg [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] . The 250 mg tablet of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium and the 250 mg chewable tablet of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium do not contain the same amount of clavulanic acid. The 250 mg tablet of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium contains 125 mg of clavulanic acid whereas the 250 mg chewable tablet of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium contains 62.5 mg of clavulanic acid. Two Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 250 mg/125 mg Tablets are NOT Substitutable with One 500 mg/125 mg Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablet Two 250 mg/125 mg tablets of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium should NOT be substituted for one 500 mg/125 mg tablet of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium. Since both the 250 mg and 500 mg tablets of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium contain the same amount of clavulanic acid (125 mg, as the potassium salt), two 250 mg tablets of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium are not equivalent to one 500 mg tablet of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION In Adults, 750 to 1750 mg/day in divided doses every 8 to 12 hours. In Pediatric Patients over 3 Months of Age, 20 to 45 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 8 to 12 hours. Refer to full prescribing information for specific dosing regimens. ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) The upper dose for neonates and infants aged 3 months or younger is 30 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours. ( 2.3 ) Dosing for H. pylori Infection (in Adults): Triple therapy: 1 gram amoxicillin, 500 mg clarithromycin, and 30 mg lansoprazole, all given twice daily (every 12 hours) for 14 days. Dual therapy: 1 gram amoxicillin and 30 mg lansoprazole, each given three times daily (every 8 hours) for 14 days. ( 2.4 ) Reduce the dose in patients with severe renal impairment (GFR greater than 30 mL/min). ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions To minimize the potential for gastrointestinal intolerance, amoxicillin tablets should be taken at the start of a meal. 2.2 Dosage for Adults and Pediatric Patients Aged 3 Months (12 weeks) and Older Treatment should be continued for a minimum of 48 to 72 hours beyond the time that the patient becomes asymptomatic, or evidence of bacterial eradication has been obtained. It is recommended that there be at least 10 days’ treatment for any infection caused by Streptococcus pyogenes to prevent the occurrence of acute rheumatic fever. In some infections, therapy may be required for several weeks. It may be necessary to continue clinical and/or bacteriological follow-up for several months after cessation of therapy. Dosage Recommendations for Adult and Pediatric Patients Aged 3 Months (12 weeks) and Older Infection Severity a Recommended Dosage for Adults and Pediatric Patients Aged 3 Months and Older and Weight Greater than 40 kg Recommended Dosage for Pediatric Patients Aged 3 Months and Older and Weight Less than 40 kg Ear/Nose/Throat Skin/Skin Structure Genitourinary Tract Mild/Moderate 500 mg every 12 hours or 250 mg every 8 hours 25 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 12 hours or 20 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 8 hours Severe 875 mg every 12 hours or 500 mg every 8 hours 45 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 12 hours or 40 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 8 hours Lower Respiratory Tract Mild/Moderate or Severe 875 mg every 12 hours or 500 mg every 8 hours 45 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 12 hours or 40 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 8 hours a Dosage for infections caused by bacteria that are intermediate in their susceptibility to amoxicillin should follow the recommendations for severe infections. 2.3 Dosage in Pediatric Patients Aged Less than 12 Weeks (3 months) It is recommended that there be at least 10 days’ treatment for any infection caused by Streptococcus pyogenes to prevent the occurrence of acute rheumatic fever. Due to incompletely developed renal function affecting elimination of amoxicillin in this age group, the recommended upper dose of amoxicillin tablets is 30 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours. There are currently no dosing recommendations for pediatric patients with impaired renal function. Treatment should be continued for a minimum of 48 to 72 hours beyond the time that the patient becomes asymptomatic, or evidence of bacterial eradication has been obtained. 2.4 Dosage for H. pylori Infection in Adults Triple therapy: The recommended adult oral dose is 1 gram amoxicillin, 500 mg clarithromycin, and 30 mg lansoprazole, all given twice daily (every 12 hours) for 14 days. Dual therapy: The recommended adult oral dose is 1 gram amoxicillin and 30 mg lansoprazole, each given three times daily (every 8 hours) for 14 days. Please refer to clarithromycin and lansoprazole full prescribing information. 2.5 Dosage in Renal Impairment for Adults and Pediatric Patients Aged 3 Months and Older and Weight Greater than 40 kg Patients with impaired renal function do not generally require a reduction in dose unless the impairment is severe. Renal impairment patients with a glomerular filtration rate of less than 30 mL/min should NOT receive the 875 mg dose. See dosage regimens in patients with severe renal impairment provided in Table 2. Table 2. Dosing in Patients with Severe Renal Impairment Patients with Renal Impairment Dosage Regimen GFR 10 to 30 mL/min 500 mg or 250 mg every 12 hours, depending on the severity of the infection GFR less than 10 mL/min 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours, depending on severity of the infection Hemodialysis 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours, depending on severity of the infection Administer an additional dose both during and at the end of dialysis DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION 2.1 Dosing for Adult and Pediatric Patients > 3 Months of Age Except for gonorrhea, treatment should be continued for a minimum of 48 to 72 hours beyond the time that the patient becomes asymptomatic or evidence of bacterial eradication has been obtained. Dosing Recommendations for Adult and Pediatric Patients > 3 Months of Age Infection Severitya Usual Adult Dose Usual Dose for Children > 3 Monthsb a Dosing for infections caused by bacteria that are intermediate in their susceptibility to amoxicillin should follow the recommendations for severe infections. b The children’s dosage is intended for individuals whose weight is less than 40 kg. Children weighing 40 kg or more should be dosed according to the adult recommendations. Ear/Nose/Throat Skin/Skin Structure Genitourinary Tract Mild/Moderate 500 mg every 12 hours or 250 mg every 8 hours 25 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 12 hours or 20 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 8 hours Severe 875 mg every 12 hours or 500 mg every 8 hours 45 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 12 hours or 40 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 8 hours Lower Respiratory Tract Mild/Moderate or Severe 875 mg every 12 hours or 500 mg every 8 hours 45 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 12 hours or 40 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 8 hours Gonorrhea Acute, uncomplicated ano-genital and urethral infections in males and females 3 grams as single oral dose Prepubertal children: 50 mg/kg amoxicillin for oral suspension, combined with 25 mg/kg probenecid as a single dose. Note: Since probenecid is contraindicated in children under 2 years, do not use this regimen in children under 2 years of age. 2.2 Dosing in Neonates and Infants Aged12 Weeks ( 3 Months) Treatment should be continued for a minimum of 48 to 72 hours beyond the time that the patient becomes asymptomatic or evidence of bacterial eradication has been obtained. Due to incompletely developed renal function affecting elimination of amoxicillin in this age group, the recommended upper dose of amoxicillin for oral suspension is 30 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours. There are currently no dosing recommendations for pediatric patients with impaired renal function.2.3 Dosing for H. pylori Infection Triple Therapy: The recommended adult oral dose is 1 gram amoxicillin for oral suspension, 500 mg clarithromycin, and 30 mg lansoprazole, all given twice daily (every 12 hours) for 14 days. Dual Therapy: The recommended adult oral dose is 1 gram amoxicillin for oral suspension and 30 mg lansoprazole, each given three times daily (every 8 hours) for 14 days. Please refer to clarithromycin and lansoprazole full prescribing information.2.4 Dosing in Renal Impairment Patients with impaired renal function do not generally require a reduction in dose unless the impairment is severe. Severely impaired patients with a glomerular filtration rate of < 30 mL/min. should not receive a 875 mg dose. Patients with a glomerular filtration rate of 10 to 30 mL/min should receive 500 mg or 250 mg every 12 hours, depending on the severity of the infection. Patients with a glomerular filtration rate less than 10 mL/min should receive 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours, depending on severity of the infection. Hemodialysis patients should receive 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours, depending on severity of the infection. They should receive an additional dose both during and at the end of dialysis. 2.5 Directions for Mixing Oral Suspension Tap bottle until all powder flows freely. Add approximately 1/3 of the total amount of water for reconstitution (see Table 2) and shake vigorously to wet powder. Add remainder of the water and again shake vigorously. Amount of Water for Mixing Oral Suspension Strength Bottle Size Amount of Water Required for Reconstitution Oral Suspension 200 mg/5 mL 50 mL 35 mL 75 mL 52 mL 100 mL 69 mL Oral Suspension 400 mg/5 mL 50 mL 35 mL 75 mL 52 mL 100 mL 69 mL After reconstitution, the required amount of suspension should be placed directly on the child’s tongue for swallowing. Alternate means of administration are to add the required amount of suspension to formula, milk, fruit juice, water, ginger ale, or cold drinks. These preparations should then be taken immediately. NOTE: SHAKE ORAL SUSPENSION WELL BEFORE USING. Keep bottle tightly closed. Any unused portion of the reconstituted suspension must be discarded after 14 days. Refrigeration is preferable, but not required. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium may be taken without regard to meals; however, absorption of clavulanate potassium is enhanced when amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is administered at the start of a meal. • Adults and Pediatric Patients > 40 kg: 500 or 875 mg every 12 hours or 250 or 500 mg every 8 hours. ( 2.1 , 2.2 ) • Pediatric patients aged 12 weeks (3 months) and older: 25 to 45 mg/kg/day every 12 hours or 20 to 40 mg/kg/day every 8 hours, up to the adult dose. ( 2.2 ) • Neonates and infants < 12 weeks of age: 30 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours, based on the amoxicillin component. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Adults The usual adult dose is one 500-mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium every 12 hours or one 250mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium every 8 hours. For more severe infections and infections of the respiratory tract, the dose should be one 875-mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium every 12 hours or one 500-mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium every 8 hours. Adults who have difficulty swallowing may be given the 125 mg/5 mL or 250 mg/5 mL suspension in place of the 500-mg tablet. The 200 mg/5 mL suspension or the 400 mg/5 mL suspension may be used in place of the 875-mg tablet. Two 250-mg tablets of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should not be substituted for one 500-mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium. Since both the 250-mg and 500-mg tablets of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium contain the same amount of clavulanic acid (125 mg, as the potassium salt), two 250-mg tablets are not equivalent to one 500-mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium. The 250-mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and the 250-mg chewable tablet should not be substituted for each other, as they are not interchangeable. The 250-mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and the 250-mg chewable tablet do not contain the same amount of clavulanic acid (as the potassium salt). The 250-mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium contains 125 mg of clavulanic acid, whereas the 250-mg chewable tablet contains 62.5 mg of clavulanic acid. 2.2 Pediatric Patients Based on the amoxicillin component, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should be dosed as follows: Neonates and Infants Aged <12 weeks (<3 months): The recommended dose of Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is 30 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours, based on the amoxicillin component. Experience with the 200 mg/5 mL formulation in this age group is limited, and thus, use of the 125 mg/5 mL oral suspension is recommended. Patients Aged 12 weeks (3 months) and Older: See dosing regimens provided in Table 1 . However, the every 12 hour suspension (200 mg/5 mL and 400 mg/5 mL) and chewable tablets (200 mg and 400 mg) contain aspartame and should not be used by phenylketonurics. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] Table 1. Dosing in Patients Aged 12 weeks (3 months) and Older DOSING REGIMEN Every 12 hours Every 8 hours INFECTION 200 mg/5 mL or 400 mg/5 mL oral suspension Each strength of suspension of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is available as a chewable tablet for use by older children. 125 mg/5 mL or 250 mg/5 mL oral suspension Otitis media Duration of therapy studied and recommended for acute otitis media is 10 days. , sinusitis, lower respiratory tract infections, and more severe infections 45 mg/kg/day every 12 hours 40 mg/kg/day every 8 hours Less severe infections 25 mg/kg/day every 12 hours 20 mg/kg/day every 8 hours Patients Weighing 40 kg or More: Pediatric patients weighing 40 kg or more should be dosed according to adult recommendations. The 250-mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should not be used until the child weighs at least 40 kg, due to the different amoxicillin to clavulanic acid ratios in the 250-mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium (250 mg/125 mg) versus the 250-mg chewable tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium (250 mg/62.5 mg). 2.3 Patients with Renal Impairment Patients with impaired renal function do not generally require a reduction in dose unless the impairment is severe. Renal impairment patients with a glomerular filtration rate of <30 mL/min should not receive the 875-mg dose. 2.4 Directions for Mixing Oral Suspension Prepare a suspension at time of dispensing as follows: Tap bottle until all the powder flows freely. Add approximately 2/3 of the total amount of water for reconstitution (see Table 2 below) and shake vigorously to suspend powder. Amount of Water for Mixing Oral Suspension Strength Bottle Size Amount of Water for Reconstitution Contents of Each Teaspoonful (5 mL) 200 mg/5 mL 100 mL 88 mL 200 mg amoxicillin and 28.5 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt 400 mg/5 mL 100 mL 84 mL 400 mg amoxicillin and 57 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt Note: Shake oral suspension well before using. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Adults and Pediatric Patients greater than 40 kg: 500 or 875 mg every 12 hours or 250 or 500 mg every 8 hours, based on amoxicillin component. ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) • Pediatric patients aged 12 weeks (3 months) and older: 25 to 45 mg/kg/day every 12 hours or 20 to 40 mg/kg/day every 8 hours, up to the adult dose. (2.3) • Neonates and infants less than 12 weeks of age: 30 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours, based on the amoxicillin component. (2.3) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension may be taken without regard to meals; however, absorption of clavulanate potassium is enhanced when amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension are administered at the start of a meal. To minimize the potential for gastrointestinal intolerance, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension should be taken at the start of a meal. Dosing Regimens of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium in Adult Patients TYPE OF INFECTION DOSING REGIMEN OF AMOXICILLIN AND CLAVULANATE POTASSIUM Severe infections and infections of the respiratory tract one 875 mg tablet* of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium every 12 hours or one 500 mg tablet †, ‡ of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium every 8 hours Less severe infections one 500 mg tablet †, ‡ of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium every 12 hours or one 250 mg tablet § of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium every 8 hours * Adults who have difficulty swallowing may be given the amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL suspension or the amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL suspension may be used in place of the 875 mg/125 mg tablet. † Adults who have difficulty swallowing may be given the amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL or amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 250 mg/62.5 mg per 5 mL suspension in place of the 500 mg/125 mg tablet. ‡ Two amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 250 mg/125 mg tablets are NOT substitutable with one 500 mg/125 mg amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablet [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)] . § amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 250 mg/125 mg tablet is NOT substitutable with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)] . 2.3 Pediatric Patients Based on the amoxicillin component, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should be dosed as follows: Neonates and Infants Aged less than 12 weeks (less than 3 months) See dosing regimens of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium provided in Table 2 below. Table 2: Dosing Regimens of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium in Neonates and Infants Aged Less than 12 Weeks (Less than 3 Months) PATIENT POPULATION DOSING REGIMEN Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension* Neonates and Infants aged less than 12 weeks (less than 3 months) 30 mg/kg/day every 12 hours * Experience with the amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL formulation in this age group is limited, and thus, use of the amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension is recommended. Patients Aged 12 weeks (3 months) and Older and Weighing Less than 40 kg See dosing regimens provided in Table 3 below. • The every 12 hour regimen is recommended as it is associated with significantly less diarrhea [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. Table 3: Dosing in Patients Aged 12 Weeks (3 Months) and Older and Weighing Less than 40 kg INFECTION DOSING REGIMEN Every 12 hours Every 8 hours Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL or Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension* Amoxicillin and Clavulanate potassium 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL or Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 250 mg/62.5 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension* Otitis media † , sinusitis, lower respiratory tract infections, and more severe infections 45 mg/kg/day every 12 hours 40 mg/kg/day every 8 hours Less severe infections 25 mg/kg/day every 12 hours 20 mg/kg/day every 8 hours * Each strength of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension is available as a chewable tablet for use by older children. † Duration of therapy studied and recommended for acute otitis media is 10 days. Patients Weighing 40 kg or More Pediatric patients weighing 40 kg or more should be dosed according to adult recommendations. • The 250 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should NOT be used until the child weighs at least 40 kg, due to the different amoxicillin to clavulanic acid ratios in the 250 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium versus the 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium. See dosing regimens in patients with severe renal impairment provided in Table 4 . Table 5: Amount of Water for Mixing Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension Strength of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate potassium for Oral Suspension Bottle Size Amount of Water for Reconstitution Contents of Each Teaspoonful (5 mL) 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL 50 mL 75 mL 100 mL 47 mL 70 mL 93 mL 200 mg of amoxicillin and 28.5 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL 50 mL 75 mL 100 mL 45 mL 67 mL 89 mL 400 mg of amoxicillin and 57 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt Shake oral suspension well before using. 2.6 Switching between Dosage Forms and between Strengths Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 250 mg/125 mg Tablet is NOT Substitutable with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 250 mg/62.5 mg Chewable Tablet The 250 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and the 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should NOT be substituted for each other and the 250 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should NOT be used in pediatric patients weighing less than 40 kg [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION In adults, 750-1750 mg/day in divided doses every 8-12 hours. In Pediatric Patients > 3 Months of Age, 20-45 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 8-12 hours. ( 2.1 , 2.2 , 2.3 ) Treatment of gonorrhea is 3 grams as a single oral dose. ( 2.1 ) The upper dose for neonates and infants ≤ 3 months is 30 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours. ( 2.2 ) Dosing for H. pylori Infection: Triple therapy: 1 gram amoxicillin, 500 mg clarithromycin, and 30 mg lansoprazole, all given twice daily (every 12 hours) for 14 days. ( 2.3 ) Reduce the dose in patients with severe renal impairment (GFR <30 mL/min). ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Dosing for Adult and Pediatric Patients > 3 Months of Age Except for gonorrhea, treatment should be continued for a minimum of 48 to 72 hours beyond the time that the patient becomes asymptomatic or evidence of bacterial eradication has been obtained. Dosing Recommendations for Adult and Pediatric Patients > 3 Months of Age Infection Severity a Usual Adult Dose Usual Dose for Children> 3 Months b Ear/Nose/Throat Skin/ Skin Structure Genitourinary Tract Mild/ Moderate 500 mg every 12 hours or 250 mg every 8 hours 25 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 12 hours or 20 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 8 hours Severe 875 mg every 12 hours or 500 mg every 8 hours 45 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 12 hours or 40 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 8 hours Lower Respiratory Tract Mild/ Moderate or Severe 875 mg every 12 hours or 500 mg every 8 hours 45 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 12 hours or 40 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 8 hours Gonorrhea Acute, uncomplicated ano-genital and urethral infections in males and females 3 grams as single oral dose Prepubertal children: 50 mg/kg amoxicillin, combined with 25 mg/kg probenecid as a single dose. Note: since probenecid is contraindicated in children under 2 years. Do not use this regimen in children under 2 years of age. a Dosing for infections caused by bacteria that are intermediate in their susceptibility to amoxicillin should follow the recommendations for severe infections. 2.2 Dosing in Neonates and Infants Aged ≤ 12 Weeks (≤ 3 Months) Treatment should be continued for a minimum of 48 to 72 hours beyond the time that the patient becomes asymptomatic or evidence of bacterial eradication has been obtained. Due to incompletely developed renal function affecting elimination of amoxicillin in this age group, the recommended upper dose of amoxicillin 30 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours. 2.3 Dosing for H. pylori Infection Triple therapy: The recommended adult oral dose is 1 gram amoxicillin, 500 mg clarithromycin, and 30 mg lansoprazole, all given twice daily (every 12 hours) for 14 days. 2.4 Dosing in Renal Impairment Patients with impaired renal function do not generally require a reduction in dose unless the impairment is severe. should not receive a 875-mg dose. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and Pediatric Patients greater than 40 kg: 500 mg or 875 mg every 12 hours or 250 mg or 500 mg every 8 hours, based on amoxicillin component. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) may be taken without regard to meals; however, absorption of clavulanate potassium is enhanced when amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) are administered at the start of a meal. To minimize the potential for gastrointestinal intolerance, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) should be taken at the start of a meal. 2.2 Adult Patients See dosing regimens of amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium (based on the amoxicillin component) provided in Table 1 below. Dosing Regimens of Amoxicillin/Clavulanate Potassium in Adult Patients TYPE OF INFECTION DOSING REGIMEN OF AMOXICILLIN/CLAVULANATE POTASSIUM Severe infections and infections of the respiratory tract one 875 mg tablet a of amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium every 12 hours or one 500 mg tablet b,c of amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium every 8 hours Less severe infections one 500 mg tablet b,c of amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium every 12 hours or one 250 mg tablet d of amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium every 8 hours a Adults who have difficulty swallowing may be given the amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension or the amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension may be used in place of the 875 mg/125 mg tablet. b Adults who have difficulty swallowing may be given the amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension or amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 250 mg/62.5 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension in place of the 500 mg/125 mg tablet. d Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 250 mg/125 mg tablet is NOT substitutable with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )] . 2.3 Pediatric Patients Based on the amoxicillin component, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension should be dosed as follows: Neonates and Infants Aged less than 12 Weeks (less than 3 Months) : See dosing regimens of amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium provided in Table 2 below. Table 2: Dosing Regimens of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension in Neonates and Infants Aged Less than 12 Weeks (Less than 3 Months) PATIENT POPULATION DOSING REGIMEN Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL for Oral Suspension a Neonates and Infants aged less than 12 weeks (less than 3 months) 30 mg/kg/day every 12 hours a Experience with the amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL formulation in this age group is limited, and thus, use of the amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension is recommended. The amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg and amoxicillin and clavulanate tablets (chewable) 400 mg/57 mg contain aspartame and should not be used by phenylketonurics [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] . Table 3: Dosing in Patients Aged 12 Weeks (3 Months) and Older and Weighing Less than 40 kg INFECTION DOSING REGIMEN Every 12 hours Amoxicillin/Clavulanate Potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL for Oral Suspension or Amoxicillin/Clavulanate Potassium 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL for Oral Suspension a Otitis media b , sinusitis, lower respiratory tract infections, and more severe infections 45 mg/kg/day every 12 hours Less severe infections 25 mg/kg/day every 12 hours Each strength of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension is available as a chewable tablet for use by older children. Duration of therapy studied and recommended for acute otitis media is 10 days. Patients Weighing 40 kg or More: Pediatric patients weighing 40 kg or more should be dosed according to adult recommendations. The 250 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets should NOT be used until the child weighs at least 40 kg, due to the different amoxicillin to clavulanic acid ratios in the 250 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets versus the 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable). Renal impairment patients with a glomerular filtration rate (GFR) of less than 30 mL/min should NOT receive the 875 mg dose (based on the amoxicillin component) of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets. Dosing Regimens of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets in Patients with Severe Renal Impairment Patients with Renal Impairment Dosing Regimen GFR 10 mL/min to 30 mL/min 500 mg or 250 mg every 12 hours, depending on the severity of the infection GFR less than 10 mL/min 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours, depending on severity of the infection Hemodialysis 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours, depending on severity of the infection Administer an additional dose both during and at the end of dialysis 2.5 Directions for Mixing Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension Prepare amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension at time of dispensing as follows: Tap bottle until all powder flows freely. Table 5: Amount of Water for Mixing Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension Strength of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension Bottle Size Amount of Water for Reconstitution Contents of Each Teaspoonful (5 mL) 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL 100 mL 92 mL 200 mg of amoxicillin and 28.5 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL 100 mL 87 mL 400 mg of amoxicillin and 57 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt Shake oral suspension well before using. 2.6 Switching between Dosage Forms and between Strengths Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablet, 250 mg/125 mg are NOT Substitutable with Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Chewable Tablet, 250 mg/62.5 mg The 250 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets and the 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) should NOT be substituted for each other and the tablet of 250 mg/125 mg amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets should NOT be used in pediatric patients weighing less than 40 kg [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] . The 250 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets and the tablet of 250 mg amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) do not contain the same amount of clavulanic acid. The 250 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets contain 125 mg of clavulanic acid whereas the 250 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) contain 62.5 mg of clavulanic acid. Two Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets, 250 mg/125 mg are NOT Substitutable with One Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablet, 500 mg/125 mg Two 250 mg/125 mg amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets should NOT be substituted for one 500 mg/125 mg amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablet. Since both the 250 mg and 500 mg tablets of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets contain the same amount of clavulanic acid (125 mg, as the potassium salt), two 250 mg tablets of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets are not equivalent to one 500 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablet. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions AUGMENTIN may be taken without regard to meals; however, absorption of clavulanate potassium is enhanced when AUGMENTIN is administered at the start of a meal. To minimize the potential for gastrointestinal intolerance, AUGMENTIN should be taken at the start of a meal. 2.2 Adult Patients See dosing regimens of AUGMENTIN (based on the amoxicillin component) provided in Table 1 below. Dosing Regimens of AUGMENTIN in Adult Patients TYPE OF INFECTION DOSING REGIMEN OF Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Severe infections and infections of the respiratory tract one 875 mg tablet a of AUGMENTIN every 12 hours or one 500 mg tablet b,c of AUGMENTIN every 8 hours Less severe infections one 500 mg tablet b,c of AUGMENTIN every 12 hours or one 250 mg tablet d of AUGMENTIN every 8 hours a Adults who have difficulty swallowing may be given the AUGMENTIN 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL suspension or the AUGMENTIN 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL suspension may be used in place of the 875 mg/125 mg tablet. b Adults who have difficulty swallowing may be given the AUGMENTIN 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL or AUGMENTIN 250 mg/62.5 mg per 5 mL suspension in place of the 500 mg/125 mg tablet. c Two AUGMENTIN 250 mg/125 mg tablets are NOT substitutable with one 500 mg/125 mg AUGMENTIN tablet [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )] . d AUGMENTIN 250 mg/125 mg tablet is NOT substitutable with AUGMENTIN 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )] 2.3 Pediatric Patients Based on the amoxicillin component, AUGMENTIN should be dosed as follows: Neonates and Infants Aged less than 12 weeks (less than 3 months) : See dosing regimens of AUGMENTIN provided in Table 2 below. Table 2: Dosing Regimens of AUGMENTIN in Neonates and Infants Aged Less than 12 Weeks (Less than 3 Months) PATIENT POPULATION DOSING REGIMEN AUGMENTIN 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension a Neonates and Infants aged less than 12 weeks (less than 3 months) 30 mg/kg/day every 12 hours a Experience with the AUGMENTIN 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL formulation in this age group is limited, and thus, use of the AUGMENTIN 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension is recommended. Patients Aged 12 weeks (3 months) and Older and Weighing Less than 40 kg: See dosing regimens provided in Table 3 below. The every 12 hour regimen is recommended as it is associated with significantly less diarrhea [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2)] . [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8)]. Table 3: Dosing in Patients Aged 12 Weeks (3 Months) and Older and Weighing Less than 40 kg Table Patients Weighing 40 kg or More : Pediatric patients weighing 40 kg or more should be dosed according to adult recommendations. The 250 mg/125 mg tablet of AUGMENTIN should NOT be used until the child weighs at least 40 kg, due to the different amoxicillin to clavulanic acid ratios in the 250 mg/125 mg tablet of AUGMENTIN versus the 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet of AUGMENTIN. Renal impairment patients with a glomerular filtration rate (GFR) of less than 30 mL/min should NOT receive the 875 mg dose (based on the amoxicillin component) of AUGMENTIN. Dosing Regimens of AUGMENTIN in Patients with Severe Renal Impairment Patients with Renal Impairment Dosing Regimen GFR 10 mL/min to 30 mL/min 500 mg or 250 mg every 12 hours, depending on the severity of the infection GFR less than 10 mL/min 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours, depending on severity of the infection Hemodialysis 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours, depending on severity of the infection Administer an additional dose both during and at the end of dialysis 2.5 Directions for Mixing Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension Prepare AUGMENTIN for oral suspension at time of dispensing as follows: Tap bottle until all powder flows freely. Table 5: Amount of Water for Mixing AUGMENTIN for Oral Suspension Strength of AUGMENTIN Oral Suspension Bottle Size Amount of Water for Reconstitution Contents of Each Teaspoonful (5 mL) 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL 75 mL 100 mL 150 mL 67 mL 90 mL 134 mL 125 mg of amoxicillin and 31.25 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt 250 mg/62.5 mg per 5 mL 75 mL 100 mL 150 mL 65 mL 87 mL 130 mL 250 mg of amoxicillin and 62.5 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt Shake oral suspension well before using. 2.6 Switching between Dosage Forms and between Strengths AUGMENTIN 250 mg/125 mg Tablet is NOT Substitutable with AUGMENTIN 250 mg/62.5 mg Chewable Tablet The 250 mg/125 mg tablet of AUGMENTIN and the 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet of AUGMENTIN should NOT be substituted for each other and the 250 mg/125 mg tablet of AUGMENTIN should NOT be used in pediatric patients weighing less than 40 kg [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] . The 250 mg tablet of AUGMENTIN and the 250 mg chewable tablet of AUGMENTIN do not contain the same amount of clavulanic acid. The 250 mg tablet of AUGMENTIN contains 125 mg of clavulanic acid whereas the 250 mg chewable tablet of AUGMENTIN contains 62.5 mg of clavulanic acid. Two AUGMENTIN 250 mg/125 mg Tablets are NOT Substitutable with One 500 mg/125 mg AUGMENTIN Tablet Two 250 mg/125 mg tablets of AUGMENTIN should NOT be substituted for one 500 mg/125 mg tablet of AUGMENTIN. Since both the 250 mg and 500 mg tablets of AUGMNTIN contain the same amount of clavulanic acid (125 mg, as the potassium salt), two 250 mg tablets of AUGMENTIN are not equivalent to one 500 mg tablet of AUGMENTIN. Dosage Recommendations for Adult and Pediatric Patients Aged 3 Months (12 weeks) and Older Infection Severity a Recommended Dosage for Adults and Pediatric Patients Aged 3 Months and Older and Weight Greater than 40 kg Recommended Dosage for Pediatric Patients Aged 3 Months and Older and Weight Less than 40 kg Mild/Moderate 500 mg every 12 hours or 250 mg every 8 hours 25 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 12 hours or 20 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 8 hours Ear/Nose/Throat Skin/Skin Structure Genitourinary Tract Severe 875 mg every 12 hours or 500 mg every 8 hours 45 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 12 hours or 40 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 8 hours Lower Respiratory Tract Mild/Moderate or Severe 875 mg every 12 hours or 500 mg every 8 hours 45 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 12 hours or 40 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 8 hours a Dosage for infections caused by bacteria that are intermediate in their susceptibility to amoxicillin should follow the recommendations for severe infections. Due to incompletely developed renal function affecting elimination of amoxicillin in this age group, the recommended upper dose of amoxicillin is 30 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours. (2.5) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions To minimize the potential for gastrointestinal intolerance, amoxicillin capsules should be taken at the start of a meal. Due to incompletely developed renal function affecting elimination of amoxicillin in this age group, the recommended upper dose of amoxicillin capsules is 30 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS History of a serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium or to other beta‑lactams (e.g., penicillins or cephalosporins). ( 4.1 ) History of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium. ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Serious Hypersensitivity Reactions Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium is contraindicated in patients with a history of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin, clavulanate or to other beta‑lactam antibacterial drugs (e.g., penicillins and cephalosporins). 4.2 Cholestatic Jaundice/Hepatic Dysfunction Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium is contraindicated in patients with a previous history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Amoxicillin tablets are contraindicated in patients who have experienced a serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin tablets or to other β-lactam antibacterial drugs (e.g., penicillins and cephalosporins). History of a serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin tablets or to other beta-lactams (e.g., penicillins or cephalosporins). (4) CONTRAINDICATIONS SECTION Amoxicillinfor oral suspension is contraindicated in patients who have experienced a serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin for oral suspension or to other β-lactam antibiotics (e.g., penicillins and cephalosporins). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • History of a serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium or to other beta-lactams (e.g., penicillins or cephalosporins) ( 4 ) • History of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium. ( 4 ) 4.1 Serious Hypersensitivity Reactions Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is contraindicated in patients with a history of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin, clavulanate or to other beta-lactam antibacterial drugs (e.g., penicillins and cephalosporins). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • History of a serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium or to other beta‑lactams (e.g., penicillins or cephalosporins). (4.1) • History of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium. (4.2) 4.1 Serious Hypersensitivity Reactions Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is contraindicated in patients with a history of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin, clavulanate or to other beta-lactam antibacterial drugs (e.g., penicillins and cephalosporins). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Amoxicillin is contraindicated in patients who have experienced a serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin or to other β-lactam antibiotics (e.g., penicillins and cephalosporins). History of a serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin or to other beta-lactams (e.g., penicillins or cephalosporins). ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS History of a serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens–Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium or to other beta–lactams (e.g., penicillins or cephalosporins). ( 4.1 ) History of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium. ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Serious Hypersensitivity Reactions Amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium is contraindicated in patients with a history of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin, clavulanate or to other beta-lactam antibacterial drugs (e.g., penicillins and cephalosporins). 4.2 Cholestatic Jaundice/Hepatic Dysfunction Amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium is contraindicated in patients with a previous history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS History of a serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to AUGMENTIN or to other beta‑lactams (e.g., penicillins or cephalosporins). ( 4.1 ) History of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with AUGMENTIN. ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Serious Hypersensitivity Reactions AUGMENTIN is contraindicated in patients with a history of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin, clavulanate or to other beta‑lactam antibacterial drugs (e.g., penicillins and cephalosporins). 4.2 Cholestatic Jaundice/Hepatic Dysfunction AUGMENTIN is contraindicated in patients with a previous history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with AUGMENTIN. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Amoxicillin is contraindicated in patients who have experienced a serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin or to other β-lactam antibacterial drugs (e.g., penicillins and cephalosporins). ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Amoxicillin capsules are contraindicated in patients who have experienced a serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin capsules or to other β-lactam antibacterial drugs (e.g., penicillins and cephalosporins). History of a serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin capsules or to other beta-lactams (e.g., penicillins or cephalosporins).
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Co‑administration with probenecid is not recommended. ( 7.1 ) Concomitant use of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium and oral anticoagulants may increase the prolongation of prothrombin time.( 7.2 ) Co-administration with allopurinol increases the risk of rash. ( 7.3 ) Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium may reduce efficacy of oral contraceptives. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Probenecid Probenecid decreases the renal tubular secretion of amoxicillin but does not delay renal excretion of clavulanic acid. Concurrent use with Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium may result in increased and prolonged blood concentrations of amoxicillin. Co-administration of probenecid is not recommended. 7.2 Oral Anticoagulants Abnormal prolongation of prothrombin time (increased international normalized ratio [INR]) has been reported in patients receiving amoxicillin and oral anticoagulants. Appropriate monitoring should be undertaken when anticoagulants are prescribed concurrently with Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium. Adjustments in the dose of oral anticoagulants may be necessary to maintain the desired level of anticoagulation. 7.3 Allopurinol The concurrent administration of allopurinol and amoxicillin increases the incidence of rashes in patients receiving both drugs as compared to patients receiving amoxicillin alone. It is not known whether this potentiation of amoxicillin rashes is due to allopurinol or the hyperuricemia present in these patients. 7.4 Oral Contraceptives Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium may affect intestinal flora, leading to lower estrogen reabsorption and reduced efficacy of combined oral estrogen/progesterone contraceptives. 7.5 Effects on Laboratory Tests High urine concentrations of amoxicillin may result in false-positive reactions when testing for the presence of glucose in urine using CLINITEST ® , Benedict's Solution, or Fehling's Solution. Since this effect may also occur with Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium, it is recommended that glucose tests based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions be used. Following administration of amoxicillin to pregnant women, a transient decrease in plasma concentration of total conjugated estriol, estriol-glucuronide, conjugated estrone, and estradiol has been noted. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Co-administration with probenicid is not recommended. (7.1) Concomitant use of amoxicillin and oral anticoagulants may increase the prolongation of prothrombin time. (7.2) Co-administration with allopurinol increases the risk of rash. (7.3) Amoxicillin may reduce the efficacy of oral contraceptives. (7.4) 7.1 Probenecid Probenecid decreases the renal tubular secretion of amoxicillin. Concurrent use of amoxicillin and probenecid may result in increased and prolonged blood levels of amoxicillin. Appropriate monitoring should be undertaken when anticoagulants are prescribed concurrently. It is not known whether this potentiation of rashes is due to allopurinol or the hyperuricemia present in these patients. 7.4 Oral Contraceptives Amoxicillin may affect the intestinal flora, leading to lower estrogen reabsorption and reduced efficacy of combined oral estrogen/progesterone contraceptives. 7.5 Other Antibacterials Chloramphenicol, macrolides, sulfonamides, and tetracyclines may interfere with the bactericidal effects of penicillin. This has been demonstrated in vitro ; however, the clinical significance of this interaction is not well documented. 7.6 Effects on Laboratory Tests High urine concentrations of ampicillin may result in false-positive reactions when testing for the presence of glucose in urine using CLINITEST ® , Benedict’s Solution, or Fehling’s Solution. Since this effect may also occur with amoxicillin, it is recommended that glucose tests based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions (such as CLINISTIX ® ) be used. Following administration of ampicillin or amoxicillin to pregnant women, a transient decrease in plasma concentration of total conjugated estriol, estriol-glucuronide, conjugated estrone, and estradiol has been noted. DRUG INTERACTIONS SECTION 7.1 Probenecid Probenecid decreases the renal tubular secretion of amoxicillin. Concurrent use of amoxicillin and probenecid may result in increased and prolonged blood levels of amoxicillin.7.2 Oral Anticoagulants Abnormal prolongation of prothrombin time (increased international normalized ratio [INR]) has been reported in patients receiving amoxicillin and oral anticoagulants. Adjustments in the dose of oral anticoagulants may be necessary to maintain the desired level of anticoagulation.7.3 Allopurinol The concurrent administration of allopurinol and amoxicillin increases the incidence of rashes in patients receiving both drugs as compared to patients receiving amoxicillin alone. 7.4 Oral Contraceptives Amoxicillin may affect the gut flora, leading to lower estrogen reabsorption and reduced efficacy of combined oral estrogen/progesterone contraceptives.7.5 Other Antibacterials Chloramphenicol, macrolides, sulfonamides, and tetracyclines may interfere with the bactericidal effects of penicillin. This has been demonstrated in vitro; however, the clinical significance of this interaction is not well documented.7.6 Drug/Laboratory Interactions High urine concentrations of ampicillin may result in false-positive reactions when testing for the presence of glucose in urine using CLINITEST®, Benedict’s Solution, or Fehling’s Solution. Since this effect may also occur with amoxicillin, it is recommended that glucose tests based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions (such as CLINISTIX®) be used. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Co-administration with probenecid is not recommended. ( 7.1 ) • Concomitant use of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and oral anticoagulants may increase the prolongation of prothrombin time. ( 7.2 ) • Coadministration with allopurinol increases the risk of rash. ( 7.3 ) • Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium may reduce efficacy of oral contraceptives. Coadministration of probenecid is not recommended. 7.5 Effects on Laboratory Tests High urine concentrations of amoxicillin may result in false-positive reactions when testing for the presence of glucose in urine using CLINITEST®, Benedict’s Solution, or Fehling’s Solution. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Co‑administration with probenecid is not recommended. (7.1) • Concomitant use of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and oral anticoagulants may increase the prolongation of prothrombin time. (7.2 ) • Co-administration with allopurinol increases the risk of rash. (7.3) • Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium may reduce efficacy of oral contraceptives. (7.4) 7.1 Probenecid Probenecid decreases the renal tubular secretion of amoxicillin but does not delay renal excretion of clavulanic acid. 7.5 Effects on Laboratory Tests High urine concentrations of amoxicillin may result in false-positive reactions when testing for the presence of glucose in urine using CLINITEST ® , Benedict’s Solution, or Fehling’s Solution. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Probenicid decreases renal tubular secretion of amoxicillin which may result in increased blood levels of amoxicillin. ( 7.1 ) Concomitant use of amoxicillin and oral anticoagulants may increase the prolongation of prothrombin time. ( 7.2 ) Coadministration with allopurinol increases the risk of rash. ( 7.3 ) Amoxicillin may reduce the efficacy of oral contraceptives. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Probenecid Probenecid decreases the renal tubular secretion of amoxicillin. 7.4 Oral Contraceptives Amoxicillin may affect the gut flora, leading to lower estrogen reabsorption and reduced efficacy of combined oral estrogen/progesterone contraceptives. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Coadministration with probenecid is not recommended. ( 7.1 ) Concomitant use of amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium and oral anticoagulants may increase the prolongation of prothrombin time. ( 7.3 ) Amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium may reduce efficacy of oral contraceptives. Concurrent use with amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium may result in increased and prolonged blood concentrations of amoxicillin. Appropriate monitoring should be undertaken when anticoagulants are prescribed concurrently with amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium. 7.4 Oral Contraceptives Amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium may affect intestinal flora, leading to lower estrogen reabsorption and reduced efficacy of combined oral estrogen/progesterone contraceptives. Since this effect may also occur with amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium, it is recommended that glucose tests based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions be used. ( 7.1 ) Concomitant use of AUGMENTIN and oral anticoagulants may increase the prolongation of prothrombin time.( 7.2 ) Co-administration with allopurinol increases the risk of rash. ( 7.3 ) AUGMENTIN may reduce efficacy of oral contraceptives. Concurrent use with AUGMENTIN may result in increased and prolonged blood concentrations of amoxicillin. Appropriate monitoring should be undertaken when anticoagulants are prescribed concurrently with AUGMENTIN. 7.4 Oral Contraceptives AUGMENTIN may affect intestinal flora, leading to lower estrogen reabsorption and reduced efficacy of combined oral estrogen/progesterone contraceptives. Since this effect may also occur with AUGMENTIN, it is recommended that glucose tests based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions be used. ( 7.1 ) Concomitant use of amoxicillin tablets and oral anticoagulants may increase the prolongation of prothrombin time. ( 7.2 ) Co-administration with allopurinol increases the risk of rash. ( 7.3 ) Amoxicillin tablets may reduce efficacy of oral contraceptives. 7.4 Oral Contraceptives Amoxicillin tablets may affect the intestinal flora, leading to lower estrogen reabsorption and reduced efficacy of combined oral estrogen/progesterone contraceptives. Since this effect may also occur with amoxicillin tablets, it is recommended that glucose tests based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions (such as CLINISTIX ® ) be used.

=== TRIAMCINOLONE ACETONIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Allergy symptom reliever
Indications: INDICATIONS & USAGE Triamcinolone Acetonide Ointment is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid responsive dermatoses. INDICATIONS & USAGE Topical corticosteroids are indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Intramuscular Where oral therapy is not feasible, injectable corticosteroid therapy, including triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension is indicated for intramuscular use as follows: Allergic states: Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment in asthma, atopic dermatitis, contact dermatitis, drug hypersensitivity reactions, perennial or seasonal allergic rhinitis, serum sickness, transfusion reactions. Dermatologic diseases: Bullous dermatitis herpetiformis, exfoliative erythroderma, mycosis fungoides, pemphigus, severe erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson syndrome). Endocrine disorders: Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the drug of choice; synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable; in infancy, mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance), congenital adrenal hyperplasia, hypercalcemia associated with cancer, nonsuppurative thyroiditis. Gastrointestinal diseases: To tide the patient over a critical period of the disease in regional enteritis and ulcerative colitis. Hematologic disorders: Acquired (autoimmune) hemolytic anemia, Diamond-Blackfan anemia, pure red cell aplasia, selected cases of secondary thrombocytopenia. Miscellaneous: Trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement, tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy. Neoplastic diseases: For the palliative management of leukemias and lymphomas. Nervous system: Acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis; cerebral edema associated with primary or metastatic brain tumor or craniotomy. Ophthalmic diseases: Sympathetic ophthalmia, temporal arteritis, uveitis, and ocular inflammatory conditions unresponsive to topical corticosteroids. Renal diseases: To induce diuresis or remission of proteinuria in idiopathic nephrotic syndrome or that due to lupus erythematosus. Respiratory diseases: Berylliosis, fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy, idiopathic eosinophilic pneumonias, symptomatic sarcoidosis. Rheumatic disorders: As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in acute gouty arthritis; acute rheumatic carditis; ankylosing spondylitis; psoriatic arthritis; rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low-dose maintenance therapy). For the treatment of dermatomyositis, polymyositis, and systemic lupus erythematosus. Intra-Articular The intra-articular or soft tissue administration of triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension is indicated as adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in acute gouty arthritis, acute and subacute bursitis, acute nonspecific tenosynovitis, epicondylitis, rheumatoid arthritis, synovitis of osteoarthritis. Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms of hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: • nasal congestion • runny nose • sneezing • itchy nose INDICATIONS AND USAGE Topical corticosteroids are indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. INDICATIONS & USAGE Triamcinolone Acetonide Cream is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin and Triamcinolone Acetonide Cream USP is indicated for the treatment of cutaneous candidiasis; it has been demonstrated that the nystatin-steroid combination provides greater benefit than the nystatin component alone during the first few days of treatment. Uses Temporarily relieves these symptoms of hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: nasal congestion runny nose sneezing itchy nose INDICATIONS AND USAGE Intramuscular Where oral therapy is not feasible, injectable corticosteroid therapy, including Kenalog-40 Injection (triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension, USP) are indicated for intramuscular use as follows: Allergic states: Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment in asthma, atopic dermatitis, contact dermatitis, drug hypersensitivity reactions, perennial or seasonal allergic rhinitis, serum sickness, transfusion reactions. Intra-Articular The intra-articular or soft tissue administration of Kenalog-40 Injection are indicated as adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in acute gouty arthritis, acute and subacute bursitis, acute nonspecific tenosynovitis, epicondylitis, rheumatoid arthritis, synovitis of osteoarthritis.
Dosage: DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of Triamcinolone Acetonide Ointment 0.025% to the affected area two to four times daily. Apply a thin film of the 0.1% or the 0.5% Triamcinolone Acetonide Ointment, as appropriate, to the affected area two to three times daily. Occlusive Dressing Technique Occlusive dressings may be used for the management of psoriasis or other recalcitrant conditions. Apply a thin film of ointment to the lesion, cover with a pliable nonporous film, and seal the edges. If needed, additional moisture may be provided by covering the lesion with a dampened clean cotton cloth before the nonporous film is applied or by briefly wetting the affected area with water immediately prior to applying the medication. The frequency of changing dressings is best determined on an individual basis. It may be convenient to apply Triamcinolone Acetonide Ointment under an occlusive dressing in the evening and to remove the dressing in the morning (i.e., 12-hour occlusion). When utilizing the 12-hour occlusion regimen, additional ointment should be applied, without occlusion, during the day. Reapplication is essential at each dressing change. If an infection develops, the use of occlusive dressings should be discontinued and appropriate antimicrobial therapy instituted. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Topical corticosteroids are generally applied to the affected area as a thin film two to four times daily for the 0.025% strength and two or three times daily for the 0.1% and 0.5% strength depending on the severity of the condition. Occlusive dressings may be used for the management of psoriasis or recalcitrant conditions. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION General NOTE: CONTAINS BENZYL ALCOHOL (see PRECAUTIONS). The initial dose of triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension may vary from 2.5 mg to 100 mg per day depending on the specific disease entity being treated (see Dosage section below). However, in certain overwhelming, acute, life-threatening situations, administration in dosages exceeding the usual dosages may be justified and may be in multiples of the oral dosages. IT SHOULD BE EMPHASIZED THAT DOSAGE REQUIREMENTS ARE VARIABLE AND MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED ON THE BASIS OF THE DISEASE UNDER TREATMENT AND THE RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT. After a favorable response is noted, the proper maintenance dosage should be determined by decreasing the initial drug dosage in small decrements at appropriate time intervals until the lowest dosage which will maintain an adequate clinical response is reached. Situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process, the patient’s individual drug responsiveness, and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease entity under treatment. In this latter situation it may be necessary to increase the dosage of the corticosteroid for a period of time consistent with the patient’s condition. If after long-term therapy the drug is to be stopped, it is recommended that it be withdrawn gradually rather than abruptly. Dosage SYSTEMIC The suggested initial dose is 60 mg, injected deeply into the gluteal muscle . Atrophy of subcutaneous fat may occur if the injection is not properly given. Dosage is usually adjusted within the range of 40 mg to 80 mg, depending upon patient response and duration of relief. However, some patients may be well controlled on doses as low as 20 mg or less. Hay fever or pollen asthma: Patients with hay fever or pollen asthma who are not responding to pollen administration and other conventional therapy may obtain a remission of symptoms lasting throughout the pollen season after a single injection of 40 mg to 100 mg. In the treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis, daily doses of 160 mg of triamcinolone for a week followed by 64 mg every other day for one month are recommended (see PRECAUTIONS: Neuro-Psychiatric ). In pediatric patients, the initial dose of triamcinolone may vary depending on the specific disease entity being treated. The range of initial doses is 0.11 mg/kg/day to 1.6 mg/kg/day in 3 or 4 divided doses (3.2 mg/m 2 bsa/day to 48 mg/m 2 bsa/day). For the purpose of comparison, the following is the equivalent milligram dosage of the various glucocorticoids: Cortisone, 25 Triamcinolone, 4 Hydrocortisone, 20 Paramethasone, 2 Prednisolone, 5 Betamethasone, 0.75 Prednisone, 5 Dexamethasone, 0.75 Methylprednisolone, 4 These dose relationships apply only to oral or intravenous administration of these compounds. When these substances or their derivatives are injected intramuscularly or into joint spaces, their relative properties may be greatly altered. LOCAL Intra-articular administration: A single local injection of triamcinolone acetonide is frequently sufficient, but several injections may be needed for adequate relief of symptoms. Initial dose: 2.5 mg to 5 mg for smaller joints and from 5 mg to 15 mg for larger joints, depending on the specific disease entity being treated. For adults, doses up to 10 mg for smaller areas and up to 40 mg for larger areas have usually been sufficient. Single injections into several joints, up to a total of 80 mg, have been given. Administration GENERAL STRICT ASEPTIC TECHNIQUE IS MANDATORY. The vial should be shaken before use to ensure a uniform suspension. Prior to withdrawal, the suspension should be inspected for clumping or granular appearance (agglomeration). Agglomeration occurs when the drug substance separates from the solution and appears as a white precipitate in the vial. An agglomerated product should be discarded and should not be used. After withdrawal, triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension should be injected without delay to prevent settling in the syringe. Careful technique should be employed to avoid the possibility of entering a blood vessel or introducing infection. SYSTEMIC For systemic therapy, injection should be made deeply into the gluteal muscle (see WARNINGS ). For adults, a minimum needle length of 1½ inches is recommended. In obese patients, a longer needle may be required. Use alternative sites for subsequent injections. LOCAL For treatment of joints, the usual intra-articular injection technique should be followed. If an excessive amount of synovial fluid is present in the joint, some, but not all, should be aspirated to aid in the relief of pain and to prevent undue dilution of the steroid. With intra-articular administration, prior use of a local anesthetic may often be desirable. Care should be taken with this kind of injection, particularly in the deltoid region, to avoid injecting the suspension into the tissues surrounding the site, since this may lead to tissue atrophy. In treating acute nonspecific tenosynovitis, care should be taken to ensure that the injection of the corticosteroid is made into the tendon sheath rather than the tendon substance. Epicondylitis may be treated by infiltrating the preparation into the area of greatest tenderness. Directions Read insert (inside package) on how to: • get a new bottle ready (primed) before first use • prime bottle again if not used for more than 2 weeks • use the spray • clean the spray nozzle ADULTS AND CHILDREN 12 YEARS OF AGE AND OLDER adults and children 12 years of age and older • once daily, spray 2 times into each nostril while sniffing gently • once your allergy symptoms improve, reduce to 1 spray in each nostril per day CHILDREN 2 TO UNDER 12 YEARS OF AGE • the growth rate of some children may be slower while using this product. Talk to your child’s doctor if your child needs to use the spray for longer than two months a year. children 6 to under 12 years of age • an adult should supervise use • once daily, spray 1 time into each nostril while sniffing gently • if allergy symptoms do not improve, increase to 2 sprays in each nostril per day. Once allergy symptoms improve, reduce to 1 spray in each nostril per day. children 2 to under 6 years of age • an adult should supervise use • once daily, spray 1 time into each nostril while sniffing gently children under 2 years of age • do not use • do not use more than directed • if you forget a dose, do not double the next dose • do not spray into eyes or mouth • if allergy symptoms do not improve after one week, stop using and talk to a doctor • do not use for the common cold • shake well before each use DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Topical corticosteroids are generally applied to the affected area as a thin film from two to four times daily depending on the severity of the condition. Occlusive dressing may be used for the management of psoriasis or recalcitrant conditions. If an infection develops, the use of occlusive dressing should be discontinued and appropriate antimicrobial therapy instituted. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Apply Triamcinolone Acetonide Cream 0.025% to the affected area two to four times daily. Rub in gently. Apply the 0.1% or the 0.5% Triamcinolone Acetonide Cream, as appropriate, to the affected area two to three times daily. Gently rub a small amount of cream into the lesion until it disappears. Reapply the preparation leaving a thin coating on the lesion, cover with pliable nonporous film, and seal the edges. It may be convenient to apply triamcinolone acetonide cream under an occlusive dressing in the evening and to remove the dressing in the morning (i.e., 12-hour occlusion). When utilizing the 12-hour occlusion regimen, additional cream should be applied, without occlusion, during the day. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Nystatin and Triamcinolone Acetonide Cream USP is usually applied to the affected areas twice daily in the morning and evening by gently and thoroughly massaging the preparation into the skin. The cream should be discontinued if symptoms persist after 25 days of therapy (see PRECAUTIONS , Laboratory Tests). Nystatin and Triamcinolone Acetonide Cream USP should not be used with occlusive dressings. Direction Read insert (*inside package) on how to: get a new bottle ready (primed before first use prime bottle again if not used for more than 2 weeks use the spray nozzle ADULTS AND CHILDREN 12 YEARS OF AGE AND OLDER adults and children 12 years of age and older once daily, spray 2 times into each nostril while sniffing gently once your allergy symptoms improve, reduce to 1 spray in each nostril per day CHILDREN 2 TO UNDER 12 YEARS OF AGE the growth rate of some children may be slower while using this product. Talk to your child's doctor if your child to use the spray for longer than two months a year children 6 to under 12 years of age an adult should supervise use once daily, spray 1 time into each nostril while sniffing gently if allergy symptoms do not improve, increase to 2 sprays in each nostril per day. children 2 to under 6 years of age an adult should supervise use once daily, spray 1 time into each nostril while sniffing gently CHILDREN UNDER 2 YEARS OF AGE do not use do not use more than directed if you forget a dose, do not double the next dose do not spray into the eyes or mouth if allergy symptoms do not improve after one weeks, stop using and talk to a doctor do not use for the common cold shake well before each use DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION General NOTE: CONTAINS BENZYL ALCOHOL (see PRECAUTIONS ). The initial dose of Kenalog-40 Injection may vary from 2.5 mg to 100 mg per day depending on the specific disease entity being treated (see Dosage section below). In the treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis, daily doses of 160 mg of triamcinolone for a week followed by 64 mg every other day for one month are recommended (see PRECAUTIONS : Neuro-Psychiatric ). An agglomerated product results from exposure to freezing temperatures and should not be used. After withdrawal, Kenalog-40 Injection should be injected without delay to prevent settling in the syringe. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Topical corticosteroids are generally applied to the affected area as a thin film from two to three times daily depending on the severity of the condition.
Warnings: WARNINGS Serious Neurologic Adverse Reactions with Epidural Administration Serious neurologic events, some resulting in death, have been reported with epidural injection of corticosteroids (see WARNINGS: Neurologic ). Specific events reported include, but are not limited to, spinal cord infarction, paraplegia, quadriplegia, cortical blindness, and stroke. These serious neurologic events have been reported with and without use of fluoroscopy. The safety and effectiveness of epidural administration of corticosteroids have not been established, and corticosteroids are not approved for this use. General Exposure to excessive amounts of benzyl alcohol has been associated with toxicity (hypotension, metabolic acidosis), particularly in neonates, and an increased incidence of kernicterus, particularly in small preterm infants. There have been rare reports of deaths, primarily in preterm infants, associated with exposure to excessive amounts of benzyl alcohol. The amount of benzyl alcohol from medications is usually considered negligible compared to that received in flush solutions containing benzyl alcohol. Administration of high dosages of medications containing this preservative must take into account the total amount of benzyl alcohol administered. The amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occur is not known. If the patient requires more than the recommended dosages or other medications containing this preservative, the practitioner must consider the daily metabolic load of benzyl alcohol from these combined sources (see PRECAUTIONS: Pediatric Use ). Rare instances of anaphylaxis have occurred in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Cases of serious anaphylaxis, including death, have been reported in individuals receiving triamcinolone acetonide injection, regardless of the route of administration. Because triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension is suspension, it should not be administered intravenously. Unless a deep intramuscular injection is given, local atrophy is likely to occur. (For recommendations on injection techniques, see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Due to the significantly higher incidence of local atrophy when the material is injected into the deltoid area, this injection site should be avoided in favor of the gluteal area. Increased dosage of rapidly acting corticosteroids is indicated in patients on corticosteroid therapy subjected to any unusual stress before, during, and after the stressful situation. Triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension is long-acting preparations, and is not suitable for use in acute stress situations. To avoid drug-induced adrenal insufficiency, supportive dosage may be required in times of stress (such as trauma, surgery, or severe illness) both during treatment with triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension and for a year afterwards. Results from one multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled study with methylprednisolone hemisuccinate, an intravenous corticosteroid, showed an increase in early (at 2 weeks) and late (at 6 months) mortality in patients with cranial trauma who were determined not to have other clear indications for corticosteroid treatment. High doses of systemic corticosteroids, including triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension, should not be used for the treatment of traumatic brain injury. Cardio-Renal Average and large doses of corticosteroids can cause elevation of blood pressure, salt and water retention, and increased excretion of potassium. These effects are less likely to occur with the synthetic derivatives except when they are used in large doses. Dietary salt restriction and potassium supplementation may be necessary (see PRECAUTIONS ). All corticosteroids increase calcium excretion. Literature reports suggest an apparent association between use of corticosteroids and left ventricular free wall rupture after a recent myocardial infarction; therefore, therapy with corticosteroids should be used with great caution in these patients. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions: Amphotericin B injection and potassium- depleting agents ). Endocrine Corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment. Metabolic clearance of corticosteroids is decreased in hypothyroid patients and increased in hyperthyroid patients. Changes in thyroid status of the patient may necessitate adjustment in dosage. Immunosuppression and Increased Risk of Infection Corticosteroids, including triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension, suppress the immune system and increase the risk of infection with any pathogen, including viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan, or helminthic pathogens. Corticosteroids can: Reduce resistance to new infections Exacerbate existing infections Increase the risk of disseminated infections Increase the risk of reactivation or exacerbation of latent infections Mask some signs of infection Corticosteroid-associated infections can be mild but can be severe and at times fatal. The rate of infectious complications increases with increasing corticosteroid dosages. Monitor for the development of infection and consider triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension withdrawal or dosage reduction as needed. Do not administer triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension by an intraarticular, intrabursal, or intratendinous route in the presence of acute local infection. Tuberculosis Triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension is used to treat a condition in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, reactivation of the disease may occur. Closely monitor such patients for reactivation. During prolonged triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension therapy, patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity should receive chemoprophylaxis. Varicella Zoster and Measles Viral Infections Varicella and measles can have a serious or even fatal course in non-immune patients receiving corticosteroids, including triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension. In corticosteroid-treated patients who have not had these diseases or are non-immune, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure to varicella and measles: If a triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension-treated patient is exposed to varicella, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If varicella develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension-treated patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. Hepatitis B Virus Reactivation Hepatitis B virus reactivation can occur in patients who are hepatitis B carriers treated with immunosuppressive dosages of corticosteroids, including triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension. Reactivation can also occur infrequently in corticosteroid-treated patients who appear to have resolved hepatitis B infection. Screen patients for hepatitis B infection before initiating immunosuppressive (e.g., prolonged) treatment with triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension. For patients who show evidence of hepatitis B infection, recommend consultation with physicians with expertise in managing hepatitis B regarding monitoring and consideration for hepatitis B antiviral therapy. Fungal Infections Corticosteroids, including triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension, may exacerbate systemic fungal infections; therefore, avoid triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension use in the presence of such infections unless triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension is needed to control drug reactions. For patients on chronic triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension therapy who develop systemic fungal infections, triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension withdrawal or dosage reduction is recommended. Amebiasis Corticosteroids, including triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension, may activate latent amebiasis. Therefore, it is recommended that latent amebiasis or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension in patients who have spent time in the tropics or patients with unexplained diarrhea. Strongyloides Infestation Corticosteroids, including triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension, should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides (threadworm) infestation. In such patients, corticosteroid-induced immunosuppression may lead to Strongyloides hyperinfection and dissemination with widespread larval migration, often accompanied by severe enterocolitis and potentially fatal gram-negative septicemia. Cerebral Malaria Avoid corticosteroids, including triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension, in patients with cerebral malaria. Vaccination Administration of live or live, attenuated vaccines is contraindicated in patients receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids. Killed or inactivated vaccines may be administered. However, the response to such vaccines cannot be predicted. Immunization procedures may be undertaken in patients who are receiving corticosteroids as replacement therapy, e.g., for Addison’s disease. Neurologic Epidural and intrathecal administration of this product is not recommended. Reports of serious medical events, including death, have been associated with epidural and intrathecal routes of corticosteroid administration (see ADVERSE REACTIONS: Gastrointestinal and Neurologic/Psychiatric ). Ophthalmic Use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts, glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves, and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to bacteria, fungi, or viruses. The use of oral corticosteroids is not recommended in the treatment of optic neuritis and may lead to an increase in the risk of new episodes. Corticosteroids should not be used in active ocular herpes simplex. Adequate studies to demonstrate the safety of triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension use by intraturbinal, subconjunctival, sub-Tenons, retrobulbar, and intraocular (intravitreal) injections have not been performed. Endophthalmitis, eye inflammation, increased intraocular pressure, and visual disturbances including vision loss have been reported with intravitreal administration. Administration of triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension intraocularly or into the nasal turbinates is not recommended. Intraocular injection of corticosteroid formulations containing benzyl alcohol, such as triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension, is not recommended because of potential toxicity from the benzyl alcohol. Kaposi’s Sarcoma Kaposi’s sarcoma has been reported to occur in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy, most often for chronic conditions. Discontinuation of corticosteroids may result in clinical improvement of Kaposi’s sarcoma. Warnings Do not use • in children under 2 years of age • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any of the ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you • have had recent nose ulcers or nose surgery • have had a nose injury that has not healed • are using a steroid medicine for asthma, allergies or skin rash • have an eye infection • have or had glaucoma or cataracts When using this product • the growth rate of some children may be slower • some symptoms may get better on the first day of treatment. It may take up to one week of daily use to feel the most symptom relief. • do not share this bottle with anyone else as this may spread germs • remember to tell your doctor about all the medicines you take, including this one Stop use and ask a doctor if • you have, or come into contact with someone who has, chickenpox, measles or tuberculosis • you have or develop symptoms of an infection such as a persistent fever • you have any change in vision • you have severe or frequent nosebleeds If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Warnings Do not use In children under 2 years of age If you have ever had an allergic reaction to any of the ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have had recent nose ulcers or nose surgery have had a nose injury that has not healed are using a steroid medicine for asthma, allergies or skin rash have an eye infection have or had glaucoma or cataracts When using this product the growth rate of some children may be slower some symptoms may get better on the first day of treatment. do not share this bottle with anyone else as this may spread germs remember to tell your doctor about all the medicines you take, including this one Stop use and ask a doctor if you have, or come in contact with someone who has, chickenpox, measles or tuberculosis you have or develop symptoms of an infection such as persistent fever you have any change in vision you have severe or frequent nosebleeds If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1800-222-1222) right away. WARNINGS Serious Neurologic Adverse Reactions with Epidural Administration Serious neurologic events, some resulting in death, have been reported with epidural injection of corticosteroids (see WARNINGS : Neurologic ). If the patient requires more than the recommended dosages or other medications containing this preservative, the practitioner must consider the daily metabolic load of benzyl alcohol from these combined sources (see PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ). Because Kenalog-40 Injection (triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension, USP) are suspensions, they should not be administered intravenously. (For recommendations on injection techniques, see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION. ) Due to the significantly higher incidence of local atrophy when the material is injected into the deltoid area, this injection site should be avoided in favor of the gluteal area. Kenalog-40 Injection are long-acting preparations, and are not suitable for use in acute stress situations. To avoid drug-induced adrenal insufficiency, supportive dosage may be required in times of stress (such as trauma, surgery, or severe illness) both during treatment with Kenalog-40 Injection and for a year afterwards. High doses of systemic corticosteroids, including Kenalog-40 Injection, should not be used for the treatment of traumatic brain injury. Infections General Patients who are on corticosteroids are more susceptible to infections than are healthy individuals. There may be decreased resistance and inability to localize infection when corticosteroids are used. Infection with any pathogen (viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan, or helminthic) in any location of the body may be associated with the use of corticosteroids alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents. These infections may be mild to severe. With increasing doses of corticosteroids, the rate of occurrence of infectious complications increases. Corticosteroids may also mask some signs of current infection. Fungal Infections Corticosteroids may exacerbate systemic fungal infections and therefore should not be used in the presence of such infections unless they are needed to control drug reactions. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure (see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions : Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents ). Special Pathogens Latent disease may be activated or there may be an exacerbation of intercurrent infections due to pathogens, including those caused by Amoeba , Candida , Cryptococcus , Mycobacterium , Nocardia , Pneumocystis , or Toxoplasma . It is recommended that latent amebiasis or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating corticosteroid therapy in any patient who has spent time in the tropics or in any patient with unexplained diarrhea. Similarly, corticosteroids should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides (threadworm) infestation. Corticosteroids should not be used in cerebral malaria. Tuberculosis The use of corticosteroids in patients with active tuberculosis should be restricted to those cases of fulminating or disseminated tuberculosis in which the corticosteroid is used for the management of the disease in conjunction with an appropriate anti-tuberculosis regimen. If corticosteroids are indicated in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, close observation is necessary as reactivation of the disease may occur. During prolonged corticosteroid therapy, these patients should receive chemoprophylaxis. Viral Infections Chicken pox and measles can have a more serious or even fatal course in pediatric and adult patients on corticosteroids. In pediatric and adult patients who have not had these diseases, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If exposed to chicken pox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If exposed to measles, prophylaxis with immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chicken pox develops, treatment with antiviral agents should be considered. Reports of serious medical events, including death, have been associated with epidural and intrathecal routes of corticosteroid administration (see ADVERSE REACTIONS : Gastrointestinal and Neurologic/Psychiatric ). Adequate studies to demonstrate the safety of Kenalog-40 Injection use by intraturbinal, subconjunctival, sub-Tenons, retrobulbar, and intraocular (intravitreal) injections have not been performed. Administration of Kenalog-40 Injection intraocularly or into the nasal turbinates is not recommended. Intraocular injection of corticosteroid formulations containing benzyl alcohol, such as Kenalog-40 Injection, is not recommended because of potential toxicity from the benzyl alcohol.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparations. CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation. CONTRAINDICATIONS Triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any components of this product (see WARNINGS: General ). Intramuscular corticosteroid preparations are contraindicated for idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura. CONTRAINDICATIONS These preparations are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of their components. CONTRAINDICATIONS Kenalog-40 Injection are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any components of this product (see WARNINGS : General ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Triamcinolone acetonide cream is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation.
Interactions (label): Gastrointestinal Steroids should be used with caution in active or latent peptic ulcers, diverticulitis, fresh intestinal anastomoses, and nonspecific ulcerative colitis, since they may increase the risk of a perforation. Signs of peritoneal irritation following gastrointestinal perforation in patients receiving corticosteroids may be minimal or absent. There is an enhanced effect of corticosteroids in patients with cirrhosis. Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide: Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents: When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents ( i.e., amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics: Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance. Anticholinesterases: Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, oral: Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics: Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular drugs: Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine: Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine: Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. CYP3A4 inhibitors: Triamcinolone acetonide is a substrate of CYP3A4. Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Co-administration of other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, telithromycin, cobicistat-containing products) with Kenalog-40 Injection may cause increased plasma concentration of triamcinolone leading to adverse reactions. (See ADVERSE REACTIONS . ) During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving triamcinolone acetonide and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir). (See WARNINGS , Endocrine and PRECAUTIONS , Endocrine. ) Consider the benefit-risk of concomitant use and monitor for systemic corticosteroid side effects. Digitalis glycosides: Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, including oral contraceptives: Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic enzyme inducers (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin): Drugs which induce hepatic microsomal drug metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs): Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Skin tests: Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Vaccines: Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS : Infections : Vaccination ).

=== BENZOYL PEROXIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Acne Treatment Acne Treatment Use - For the Treatment of acne Purpose Anti-acne Purpose Acne medication
Indications: Uses For the treatment and management of acne Penetrates pores to eliminate most acne and blemishes Helps prevent development of new acne blemishes and blackheads Use For: For the treatment of acne. Clears up acne pimples and blemishes, and allows skin to heal. Helps prevent new pimples and blemishes from forming. USE HELPS REDUCE ACNE BREAKOUTS. Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation becomes severe. Uses Topical acne medication. Use for the treatment of acne 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel 0.1% / 2.5% is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 9 years of age and older. Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel 0.1% / 2.5% is a combination of adapalene, a retinoid, and benzoyl peroxide, and is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 9 years of age and older. (1) Uses For the treatment of acne 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide topical gel is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older. Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide topical gel 0.3%/2.5%, is a combination of adapalene, a retinoid, and benzoyl peroxide and is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older. ( 1 )
Dosage: Directions Pump a small amount of cleanser into dampened hands, and gently massage over face and neck using a circular motion. Rinse thoroughly with water and pat dry. Directions: Cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying medication. Apply an even layer over affected area. Do not use on broken skin or large parts of the body. *For best results apply one to three times per day. DIRECTIONS ALWAYS PATCH TEST A SMALL AREA BEFORE FIRST APPLICATION. APPLY SPARINGLY TO AFFECTED AREAS ONCE OR TWICE DAILY AS NEEDED, AVOIDING THE EYE AREA. DRYNESS AND LIGHT PEELING MAY OCCUR DURING THE FIRST FEW WEEKS OF USAGE. Acne Cleanser Directions: Cleanse twice a day. Wet face. Apply to hands, add water and work into lather. Massage Face gently. Rinse thoroughly. Acne Lotion Directions: Clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product. Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily. Because excessive drying of the skin may occur, start with one application daily, then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or directed by a doctor If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs, reduce application to once a day or every other day If going outside, apply a sunscreen after using this product If irritation or sensitivity develops, stop use of both products and ask a doctor Directions Cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying. Apply a thin layer daily, then gradually increase to two or three times daily. If bothersome drying or peeling occurs, reduce applications. If going outside, use a sunscreen. If irritation or sensitivity develops, discontinue use of both products and consult a doctor. Directions wet face. Gently massage all over face for 20-30 seconds avoiding the eyes. Rinse thoroughly and pat dry. because excessive drying of the skin may occur, start with one application daily, then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor. if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs, reduce daily application to once a day or every other day. if going outside, apply sunscreen after using this product. If irritation or sensitivity develops stop use of both products and ask a doctor. Sensitivity Test for a New User . Apply product sparingly to one or two small affected areas, during the first 3 days. If no discomfort occurs, follow the directions stated above. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For topical use only; adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel 0.1% / 2.5% is not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. Apply a thin film of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel 0.1% / 2.5% to affected areas of the face and/or trunk once daily after washing. Use a pea-sized amount for each area of the face (e.g., forehead, chin, each cheek). Avoid the eyes, lips and mucous membranes. Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel 0.1% / 2.5% is not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. (2) Apply a thin film of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel 0.1% / 2.5% to affected areas of the face and/or trunk once daily after washing. (2) Directions • Sensitivity Test for a New User . Apply product sparingly to one or two small affected areas during the first 3 days. If no discomfort occurs, follow the directions stated below ■ clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product ■ cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily ■ because excessive drying of the skin may occur, start with one application daily, then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor ■ if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs, reduce application to once a day or every other day ■ if going outside, apply sunscreen after using this product. If irritation or sensitivity develops, stop use of both products and ask a doctor 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For topical use only. Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide topical gel is not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. Apply a thin layer of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide topical gel to affected areas of the face and/or trunk once daily after washing. Wash hands after application as adapalene and benzoyl peroxide topical gel may bleach hair or colored fabrics. For topical use only Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide topical gel is not for oral, ophthalmic or intravaginal use. ( 2 ) Apply a thin layer of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide topical gel to affected areas of the face and/or trunk once daily after washing. ( 2 ) Use a pea-sized amount for each area of the face (e.g., forehead, chin, each cheek). ( 2 ) Avoid the eyes, lips, and mucous membranes. ( 2 ) Directions SHAKE WELL. Clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product. Sensitivity Test for a New User. If no discomfort occurs,follow the directions stated below. One to three times daily, wet skin and cover the entire affected area with a thin layer, liberally applying to areas to be cleansed. Massage gently into skin for 10-20 seconds working into a full lather, rinse thoroughly and pat dry. If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs, reduce application to once a day or every other day. Follow directions in the sunscreen labeling.
Warnings: Warnings For external use only When using this product Skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time. If irritation occurs, only use one topical acne medication at a time. Avoid contact with eyes. If contact occurs, flush thoroughly with water. Keep out of reach of children. If product is swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings: For external use only. Using other topical acne medications at the same time or immediately following use of this product may increase dryness or irritation of the skin. Because excessive drying of the skin may occur, start with one application daily, then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor. If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs, reduce application to once per day. Do not use for prolonged periods without consulting a doctor. If swallowed, contact physician or poison control center immediately. Store at room temperature. WARNINGS FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY. DO NOT USE IF YOU ARE ALLERGIC OR SENSITIVE TO BENZOYL PEROXIDE. WHEN USING THIS PRODUCT AVOID CONTACT WITH EYES, LIPS AND MOUTH. AVOID UNNECESSARY SUN EXPOSURE. MAY BLEACH FABRIC. MILD IRRITATION MAY BE REDUCED BY USING THE PRODUCT LESS FREQUENTLY OR IN A LOWER CONCENTRATION. DISCONTINUE USE, IF IRRITATION OCCURS AND CONSULT YOUR DOCTOR. USING OTHER TOPICAL ACNE MEDICATION AT THE SAME TIME OR IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING USE OF THIS PRODUCT MAY INCREASE DRYNESS OR IRRITATION OF THE SKIN. Acne Cleanser Warnings: For external use only when using this product Skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time. If irritation occurs, only use one topical medication at a time. Avoid contact with eyes, If contact occurs, flush thoroughly with water. Acne Lotion Warnings: For external use only Do not use if you have very sensitive skin are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide. When using this product Skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time. If irritation occurs, only use one topical medication at a time Avoid unnecess sun exposure and use a sunscreen Avoid contact with eyes, lips and mouth Avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics, which may be bleached by this product Skin irritation may occur, characterized by redness, burning, itching, peeling, or possibly swelling. Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in lower concentration. Warnings When using this product avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen. For external use only. Keep away from eyes, lips, and mouth. If irritation develops, discontinue use and consult a doctor. If this occurs, consult a doctor. May bleach fabrics. If swallowed, seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. Warnings For external use only Do not use if you ■ have very sensitive skin ■ are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product ■ skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time. ■ avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen ■ avoid contact with the eyes, lips, and mouth ■ avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics, which may be bleached by this product ■ skin irritation may occur, characterized by redness, burning, itching, peeling, or possibly swelling. Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration. Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ irritation becomes severe. Avoid contact with eyes, eyelids, lips and mucous membranes. Do not use if you have very sensitive skin are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product Avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen. Avoid contact with eyes, lips, and mouth. Avoid contact with hair or dyed fabrics, which may be bleached by this product. Skin irritation may occur, characterized by redness, burning, itching, peeling, or possibly swelling. Skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time. Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation becomes severe. Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide topical gel is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity reactions to benzoyl peroxide or any components of the formulation in adapalene and benzoyl peroxide topical gel. Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide topical gel is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity reactions to benzoyl peroxide or any components of the formulation in adapalene and benzoyl peroxide topical gel.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant topical acne therapy should be used with caution because a possible cumulative irritancy effect may occur, especially with the use of peeling, desquamating, or abrasive agents. No formal drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel 0.1% / 2.5%.

=== DOCUSATE SODIUM ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Stool softener Active ingredients Purpose (in each tablet) Purpose Docusate sodium 50 mg.......................................Stool softner Sennosides 8.6 mg................................................Laxative Purpose Stool softener laxative Purpose Active ingredients (in each tablet) Purpose Docusate sodium 50 mg Stool softner Sennosides 8.6 mg Laxative Purposes Stool softener Stimulant laxative
Indications: Uses relieves occasional constipation (irregularity) generally produces bowel movement in 12 to 72 hours Uses relieves occasional constipation (irregularity) generally produces bowel movement in 6-12 hours Uses for relief of occasional constipation and irregularity this product generally produces bowel movement in 12 to 72 hours INDICATIONS CitraNatal Assure ® is a multivitamin/mineral prescription drug indicated for use in improving the nutritional status of women prior to conception, throughout pregnancy, and in the postnatal period for both lactating and nonlactating mothers. Uses for relief of occasional constipation this product generally produces a bowel movement within 12 to 72 hours Uses For relief of occasional constipation (irregularity). This product generally produces bowel movement in 6 to 12 hours. Uses relieves occasional constipation (irregularity) generally produces bowel movement in 6 to 12 hours This product generally produces a bowel movement in 2 to 15 minutes.
Dosage: Directions Take only by mouth. Doses may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses. adults and children 12 years and over take 1-3 softgels daily children 2 to under 12 years of age take 1 softgel daily children under 2 years ask a doctor Directions take preferably at bedtime or as directed by a doctor adults and children 12 years of age or older - starting dosage: 2 tablets once a day, maximum dosage: 4 tablets twice a day children 6 to under 12 years - starting dosage: 1 tablet once a day, maximum dosage: 2 tablets twice a day children 2 to under 6 years - starting dosage: 1/2 tablet once a day, maximum dosage: 1 tablet twice a day children under 2 years - starting dosage: ask a doctor, maximum dosage: ask a doctor Directions take with a glass of water adults and children 12 years and over take 1-3 softgels daily. This dose may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses children 2 to under 12 years of age take 1 softgel daily children under 2 years ask a doctor adults and children 12 years and over : take 1 to 3 softgels daily children 2 to under 12 years of age : take 1 softgel daily children under 2 years : ask a doctor DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One tablet and one capsule daily or as directed by a physician. Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over: take 1 softgel daily or as directed by a doctor children under 12 years of age: ask a doctor Directions take preferably at bedtime or as directed by a doctor age starting dose maximum dose adults and children 12 years of age and older 2 tablets once a day 4 tablets twice a day children 6 to under 12 years 1 tablet once a day 2 tablets twice a day children 2 to under 6 years 1/2 tablet once a day 1 tablet twice a day children under 2 years ask a doctor ask a doctor Doses may be taken as a single daily dose, preferably in the evening, or in divided doses. adults and children 12 years and older: take 2-4 tablets daily children 6 to under 12 years of age: take 1-2 tablets daily children 2 to under 6 years of age: take up to 1 tablet daily children under 2 years: ask a doctor Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and older (with adult supervision) one to three units daily. Children under 12 years of age, consult a doctor prior to use. Twist off and remove tip. Lubricate tip prior to insertion: Place a few drops of the tube's liquid content on the shaft prior to insertion. Also apply liquid content or lubricant to the anus before inserting the mini-enema. Positioning: For best results, lay on left side with knees bent. Insert slowly into rectum, up to the shoulder of tube. Alternate positions: Administer while seated on the toilet. Or, kneel, then lower head and chest forward until side of face is resting on the surface. With steady pressure, gently insert the tube into the rectum with care to prevent damage to the rectal wall. Squeeze to empty the contents. Keep the tube squeezed until it is removed from the rectum. After the contents have been emptied, remove the disposable tube and discard. A small amount of liquid may remain in the unit after use.
Warnings: Warnings Do not use if you are presently taking mineral oil, unless told to do so by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have stomach pain nausea vomiting noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over 2 weeks Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or fail to have bowel movement after use of a laxative. These could be signs of a serious condition. you need to use a stool softener laxative for more than 1 week If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222) Warnings Do not use if you are now taking mineral oil, unless directed by a doctor laxative products for longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have stomach pain nausea vomiting noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over 2 weeks Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or fail to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative. These may indicate a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a health professional before use. Warnings Do not use if you are presently taking mineral oil, unless told to do so by a doctor. Ask a doctor before use if stomach pain nausea vomiting noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over 2 weeks Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or fail to have a bowel movement after using a laxative. These could be a sign of a serious condition. you need to use a stool softener laxative for more than 1 week If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health care professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-2222-1222) right away. Ask a doctor before use if you have stomach pain nausea vomiting noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that last over 2 weeks Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or fail to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative. These could be a signs of a serious condition. you need to use a stool softner laxative for more than 1 week If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. WARNING Ingestion of more than 3 grams of omega-3 fatty acids per day has been shown to have potential antithrombotic effects, including an increased bleeding time and INR. Administration of omega-3 fatty acids should be avoided in patients on anticoagulants and in those known to have an inherited or acquired bleeding diathesis. WARNING Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where vitamin B 12 is deficient. Warnings Do not use if you are presently taking mineral oil, unless directed by a doctor. you need to use a laxative for more than 1 week If pregnant or breast-feeding ask a health professional before use. Ask a doctor before use if you have stomach pain nausea vomiting noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over 2 weeks Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or fail to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative. you need to use a laxative for more than 1 week If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. laxative products should not be used for a period longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor. Ask a doctor before use if you have stomach pain nausea vomitting noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over 2 weeks Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative. If pregnant or breast-feeding ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Warnings For rectal use only. Drug Interaction Precaution: Do not take this product if you are presently taking mineral oil, unless directed by a doctor.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients.

=== SODIUM CHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: PURPOSE: May temporarily relieve sinus congestion, runny nose, and sneezing.** **Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. Not FDA evaluated. OTC - PURPOSE SECTION Formulated for symptoms associated with food and environmental allergens such as congestion, swollen glands, runny nose, cough, rashes and stomach upset. Pustular eruptions. Purpose: Purpose: First aid antiseptic to help prevent skin infection in minor cuts, scrapes and burns. For preparation of the skin prior to surgery. Helps reduce bacteria that can potentially cause skin infections. Purpose Antiseptic
Indications: INDICATIONS: May temporarily relieve sinus congestion, runny nose, and sneezing.** **Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. Not FDA evaluated. INDICATIONS AND USAGE This sterile, nonpyrogenic electrolyte solution is indicated for all general irrigation, washing, rinsing and dilution purposes including blood cell washing (when used in conjunction with automated intraoperative blood salvaging equipment). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ringer’s Injection is indicated for use as a source of water and electrolytes in adults and pediatric patients. Ringer’s Injection is indicated for use as a source of water and electrolytes in adults and pediatric patients. ( 1 ) INDICATIONS & USAGE SECTION Formulated for symptoms associated with food and environmental allergens such as congestion, swollen glands, runny nose, cough, rashes and stomach upset. INDICATIONS AND USAGE 14.6% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Additive Solution is indicated for parenteral restoration of sodium ion in patients with restricted oral intake. Sodium replacement is specifically indicated in patients with hyponatremia or low salt syndrome. 14.6% Sodium Chloride Additive Solution may also be added to compatible carbohydrate solutions such as dextrose in water to provide electrolytes. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection is a beta adrenergic blocker indicated for the short-term treatment of: • Control of ventricular rate in supraventricular tachycardia including atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter and control of heart rate in noncompensatory sinus tachycardia ( 1.1 ) • Control of perioperative tachycardia and hypertension ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Supraventricular Tachycardia or Noncompensatory Sinus Tachycardia Esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection is indicated for the rapid control of ventricular rate in patients with atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter in perioperative, postoperative, or other emergent circumstances where short term control of ventricular rate with a short-acting agent is desirable. Esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection is also indicated in noncompensatory sinus tachycardia where, in the physician’s judgment, the rapid heart rate requires specific intervention. Esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection is intended for short-term use. 1.2 Intraoperative and Postoperative Tachycardia and/or Hypertension Esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection is indicated for the short-term treatment of tachycardia and hypertension that occur during induction and tracheal intubation, during surgery, on emergence from anesthesia and in the postoperative period, when in the physician’s judgment such specific intervention is considered indicated. Use of esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection to prevent such events is not recommended. INDICATIONS Pustular eruptions. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection is indicated in adults for the production of local or regional anesthesia or analgesia for surgery, dental and oral surgery procedures, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and for obstetrical procedures. Specific concentrations and presentations of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection are recommended for each type of block indicated to produce local or regional anesthesia or analgesia [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection contains bupivacaine, an amide local anesthetic. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection is indicated in adults for the production of local or regional anesthesia or analgesia for surgery, dental and oral surgery procedures, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and for obstetrical procedures. For each type of block indicated to produce local or regional anesthesia or analgesia, specific concentrations and presentations are recommended. ( 1 , 2.2 ) Limitations of Use Not all blocks are indicated for use with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection given clinically significant risks associated with use. ( 1 , 2.2 , 4 , 5.1 , 5.4 , 5.5 , 5.7 , 5.9 ) Limitations of Use Not all blocks are indicated for use with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection given clinically significant risks associated with use [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.4 , 5.5 , 5.7 , 5.9) ] . INDICATIONS AND USAGE A. For Intramuscular Administration When oral therapy is not feasible and the strength, dosage form, and route of administration of the drug reasonably lend the preparation to the treatment of the condition, the intramuscular use of methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is indicated as follows: Allergic States : Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment in asthma, atopic dermatitis, contact dermatitis, drug hypersensitivity reactions, serum sickness, transfusion reactions. Dermatologic Diseases : Bullous dermatitis herpetiformis, exfoliative dermatitis, mycosis fungoides, pemphigus, severe erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson syndrome). Endocrine Disorders : Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the drug of choice; synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable; in infancy, mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance), congenital adrenal hyperplasia, hypercalcemia associated with cancer, nonsupportive thyroiditis. Gastrointestinal Diseases : To tide the patient over a critical period of the disease in regional enteritis (systemic therapy) and ulcerative colitis. Hematologic Disorders : Acquired (autoimmune) hemolytic anemia, congenital (erythroid) hypoplastic anemia (Diamond Blackfan anemia), pure red cell aplasia, select cases of secondary thrombocytopenia. Miscellaneous : Trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement, tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy. Neoplastic Diseases : For palliative management of: leukemias and lymphomas. Nervous System : Cerebral edema associated with primary or metastatic brain tumor or craniotomy. Ophthalmic Diseases : Sympathetic ophthalmia, temporal arteritis, uveitis, ocular inflammatory conditions unresponsive to topical corticosteroids. Renal Diseases : To induce diuresis or remission of proteinuria in idiopathic nephrotic syndrome, or that due to lupus erythematosus. Respiratory Diseases : Berylliosis, fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy, idiopathic eosinophilic pneumonias, symptomatic sarcoidosis. Rheumatic Disorders : As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in acute gouty arthritis; acute rheumatic carditis; ankylosing spondylitis; psoriatic arthritis; rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low-dose maintenance therapy). For the treatment of dermatomyositis, polymyositis, and systemic lupus erythematosus. B. For Intra-articular Or Soft Tissue Administration ( See WARNINGS ) Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is indicated as adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in acute gouty arthritis, acute and subacute bursitis, acute nonspecific tenosynovitis, epicondylitis, rheumatoid arthritis, synovitis of osteoarthritis. C. For Intralesional Administration Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is indicated for intralesional use in alopecia areata, discoid lupus erythematosus; keloids, localized hypertrophic, infiltrated inflammatory lesions of granuloma annulare, lichen planus, lichen simplex chronicus (neurodermatitis) and psoriatic plaques; necrobiosis lipoidica diabeticorum. Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension also may be useful in cystic tumors of an aponeurosis or tendon (ganglia). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lidocaine hydrochloride injection is indicated for production of local or regional anesthesia by infiltration techniques such as percutaneous injection and intravenous regional anesthesia by peripheral nerve block techniques such as brachial plexus and intercostal and by central neural techniques such as lumbar and caudal epidural blocks, when the accepted procedures for these techniques as described in standard textbooks are observed. For use as an first aid antiseptic pre-operative skin preperation INDICATIONS AND USAGE This parenteral preparation is indicated only for diluting or dissolving drugs for intravenous, intramuscular or subcutaneous injection, according to instructions of the manufacturer of the drug to be administered. Uses For first aid to decrease germs in minor cuts scrapes burns For preparation of the skin prior to injection
Dosage: DIRECTIONS: Adults and children 5 to 10 drops orally, 3 times daily or as otherwise directed by a health care professional. If symptoms persist for more than 7 days, consult your health care professional. Consult a physician for use in children under 12 years of age. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose is dependent upon the capacity or surface area of the structure to be irrigated and the nature of the procedure. When used as a diluent or vehicle for other drugs, the manufacturer's recommendations should be followed. For use in cell washing, the manufacturer's recommendations for blood salvaging and red cell processing should be followed. Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution container permits. See PRECAUTIONS . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage and duration are based on the patient’s age, weight, clinical condition, and concomitant therapy. ( 2.1 ) To reduce the risk of air embolism, adhere to the preparation instructions. ( 2.2 , 5.2 ) Ringer’s Injection is for intravenous use ( 2.3 ) Do not administer Ringer’s Injection simultaneously with ceftriaxone in neonates (28 days of age or younger) due to serious risks. ( 2.4 ) See full prescribing information for information dosage considerations, preparation, administration, and drug incompatibilities. ( 2 ) 2.1 Dosage Considerations The recommended dosage and duration of Ringer’s Injection is based on the patient’s age, weight, clinical condition, and concomitant therapy. Evaluate the patient’s clinical status and monitor changes in electrolyte concentrations especially during prolonged use of Ringer’s Injection to optimize clinical status. Fluid administration should be based on calculated maintenance or replacement fluid requirements for each patient. 2.2 Important Preparation Instructions Visually inspect the Ringer’s Injection solution for particulate matter and discoloration. Do not administer Ringer’s Injection unless the solution is clear and the container seals are intact. If additives are determined to be compatible with Ringer’s Injection, then using aseptic technique, mix thoroughly; do not store solutions containing additives. After mixing, do not use if there is discoloration or formation of precipitates. To reduce the risk of air embolism, adhere to the following Ringer’s Injection preparation instructions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] : Use a non-vented infusion set or close the vent on a vented set. Use a dedicated line without any connections (do not connect flexible containers in series). The use of pressure infusion is not recommended as a method to increase flow rates. However, if pressure infusion is required, ensure that any air within the bag is fully evacuated prior to initiation of infusion. If using a pumping device to administer Ringer’s Injection, turn off the pump before the container is empty. Preparation Instructions for EXCEL ® Containers Tear overwrap down at notch and remove solution container. Check for minute leaks by squeezing solution container firmly. If leaks are found, discard solution as sterility may be impaired. If supplemental medication is desired, follow directions below before preparing for administration. Inspect each container. Read the label. Ensure solution is the one ordered and is within the expiration date. Invert container and carefully inspect the solution in good light for cloudiness, haze, or particulate matter. Any container which is suspect should not be used. If supplemental medication is desired, follow directions below [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . Preparation for Administration Remove plastic protector from sterile set port at bottom of container. Attach administration set according to its accompanying directions. 2.3 Important Administration Instructions Ringer’s Injection is for intravenous use. Use immediately after opening the container. Discard the unused portion. It is recommended that intravenous administration apparatus be replaced at least once every 24 hours. Some additives may be incompatible [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . To Add Medication Before Solution Administration Prepare medication site. Using syringe with 18-22 gauge needle, puncture medication port and inner diaphragm and inject. Squeeze and tap ports while ports are upright and mix solution and medication thoroughly. To Add Medication During Solution Administration Close clamp on the set. Prepare medication site. Using syringe with 18-22 gauge needle of appropriate length (at least 5/8 inch), puncture resealable medication port and inner diaphragm and inject. Remove container from IV pole and/or turn to an upright position. Evacuate both ports by tapping and squeezing them while container is in the upright position. Mix solution and medication thoroughly. Return container to in use position and continue administration. 2.4 Drug Incompatibilities Do not administer Ringer’s Injection simultaneously with ceftriaxone in neonates (28 days of age or younger) due to serious risks [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. However, in patients older than 28 days, ceftriaxone and Ringer’s Injection may be administered sequentially if the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Do not administer Ringer’s Injection simultaneously with citrate anticoagulated/preserved blood through the same administration set because of the likelihood of coagulation precipitated by the calcium content of Ringer’s Injection. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION Directions: Ages 12 and up take 6 drops by mouth (ages 0 to 11, give 3 drops) as needed or directed by a health professional. Sensitive persons begin with 1 drop and gradually increase to full dose. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION Directions: Ages 12 and up take 6 pellets (ages 0 to 11, give 3 pellets) as needed or directed by a health professional. Under age 2, crush/dissolve pellets in purified water. Sensitive persons begin with 1 pellet and gradually increase to full dose. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 14.6% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Additive Solution is administered intravenously only after addition to a larger volume of fluid. The dose, dilution and rate of injection are dependent upon the individual needs of each patient. All or part of the contents of one or more additive containers may be added to an intravenous solution container. Concentrations of up to 5% sodium chloride have been administered. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. (See PRECAUTIONS .) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer intravenously ( 2.1 , 2.2 ) • Titrate using ventricular rate or blood pressure at ≥4-minute intervals. ( 2.1 , 2.2 ) • Supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) or noncompensatory sinus tachycardia ( 2.1 ) o Optional loading dose: 500 mcg per kg infused over one minute o Then 50 mcg per kg per minute for the next 4 minutes o Adjust dose as needed to a maximum of 200 mcg per kg per minute. o Additional loading doses may be administered • Perioperative tachycardia and hypertension ( 2.2 ) o Loading dose: 500 mcg per kg over 1 minute for gradual control (1 mg per kg over 30 seconds for immediate control) o Then 50 mcg per kg per min for gradual control (150 mcg per kg per minute for immediate control) adjusted to a maximum of 200 (tachycardia) or 300 (hypertension) mcg per kg per min ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Dosing for the Treatment of Supraventricular Tachycardia or Noncompensatory Sinus Tachycardia Esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection is administered by continuous intravenous infusion with or without a loading dose. Additional loading doses and/or titration of the maintenance infusion (step-wise dosing) may be necessary based on desired ventricular response. Table 1 Step-Wise Dosing Step Action 1 Optional loading dose (500 mcg per kg over 1 minute), then 50 mcg per kg per min for 4 min 2 Optional loading dose if necessary, then 100 mcg per kg per min for 4 min 3 Optional loading dose if necessary, then 150 mcg per kg per min for 4 min 4 If necessary, increase dose to 200 mcg per kg per min In the absence of loading doses, continuous infusion of a single concentration of esmolol reaches pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic steady-state in about 30 minutes. The effective maintenance dose for continuous and step-wise dosing is 50 to 200 mcg per kg per minute, although doses as low as 25 mcg per kg per minute have been adequate. Dosages greater than 200 mcg per kg per minute provide little added heart rate lowering effect, and the rate of adverse reactions increases. Maintenance infusions may be continued for up to 48 hours. 2.2 Intraoperative and Postoperative Tachycardia and Hypertension In this setting it is not always advisable to slowly titrate to a therapeutic effect. Therefore two dosing options are presented: immediate control and gradual control. Immediate Control • Administer 1 mg per kg as a bolus dose over 30 seconds followed by an infusion of 150 mcg per kg per min if necessary. • Adjust the infusion rate as required to maintain desired heart rate and blood pressure. Refer to Maximum Recommended Doses below. Gradual Control • Administer 500 mcg per kg as a bolus dose over 1 minute followed by a maintenance infusion of 50 mcg per kg per min for 4 minutes. • Depending on the response obtained, continue dosing as outlined for supraventricular tachycardia. Maximum Recommended Doses • For the treatment of tachycardia, maintenance infusion dosages greater than 200 mcg per kg per min are not recommended; dosages greater than 200 mcg per kg per min provide little additional heart rate-lowering effect, and the rate of adverse reactions increases. • For the treatment of hypertension, higher maintenance infusion dosages (250 to 300 mcg per kg per min) may be required. The safety of doses above 300 mcg per kg per minute has not been studied. 2.3 Transition from Esmolol Hydrochloride in Sodium Chloride Injection Therapy to Alternative Drugs After patients achieve adequate control of the heart rate and a stable clinical status, transition to alternative antiarrhythmic drugs may be accomplished. When transitioning from esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection to alternative drugs, the physician should carefully consider the labeling instructions of the alternative drug selected and reduce the dosage of esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection as follows: 1. Thirty minutes following the first dose of the alternative drug, reduce the esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection infusion rate by one-half (50%). 2. After administration of the second dose of the alternative drug, monitor the patient’s response and if satisfactory control is maintained for the first hour, discontinue the esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride infusion. 2.4 Directions for Use Esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection is available in a pre-mixed bag. Esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection is not compatible with Sodium Bicarbonate (5%) solution (limited stability) or furosemide (precipitation). Premixed Bag • The medication port is to be used solely for withdrawing an initial bolus from the bag. • Use aseptic technique when withdrawing the bolus dose. • Do not add any additional medications to the bag. Figure 1: Two-Port INTRAVIA Bag Figure 1 SUGGESTED DOSAGE One dropper under tongue two times daily. Acute symptoms ½ dropper under tongue every 30 minutes for two hours. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Not for intrathecal use. ( 2.1 ) Avoid use of solutions containing antimicrobial preservatives (i.e., multiple-dose vials) for epidural or caudal anesthesia. ( 2.1 , 5.4 ) Three mL of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection without antimicrobial preservative (0.5% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine) is recommended for use as a test dose prior to caudal and lumbar epidural blocks when clinical conditions permit. ( 2.4 ) See full prescribing information for: Recommended concentrations and dosages of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection according to type of block. ( 2.2 ) Additional dosage and administration information pertaining to use in epidural anesthesia, test dose for caudal and lumbar epidural blocks, use in dentistry, and use in ophthalmic surgery. ( 2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is not for intrathecal use. Avoid use of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection solutions containing antimicrobial preservatives (i.e., multiple-dose vials) for epidural or caudal anesthesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Discard unused portions of solution not containing preservatives, i.e., those supplied in single-dose vials, following initial use. Visually inspect this product for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection are clear, colorless solutions. Do not administer solutions which are discolored or contain particulate matter. Mixing or the prior or intercurrent use of any other local anesthetic with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is not recommended because of insufficient data on the clinical use of such mixtures. Administration Precautions Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection are to be administered in carefully adjusted dosages by or under the supervision of experienced clinicians who are well versed in the diagnosis and management of dose-related toxicity and other acute emergencies which might arise from the block to be employed. Use Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection only if the following are immediately available: oxygen, cardiopulmonary resuscitative equipment and drugs, and the personnel resources needed for proper management of toxic reactions and related emergencies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6) , Overdosage (10) ] . The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. Monitor for neurologic and cardiovascular effects related to local anesthetic systemic toxicity when additional local anesthetics are administered with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Drug Interactions (7.1) , Overdosage (10) ] . Aspirate for blood or cerebrospinal fluid (where applicable) prior to injecting Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection, both the initial dose and all subsequent doses, to avoid intravascular or intrathecal injection. However, a negative aspiration for blood or cerebrospinal fluid does not ensure against an intravascular or intrathecal injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . Avoid rapid injection of a large volume of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and use fractional (incremental) doses when feasible. During major regional nerve blocks, such as those of the brachial plexus or lower extremity, the patient should have an indwelling intravenous catheter to assure adequate intravenous access. The lowest dosage of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection that results in effective anesthesia should be used to avoid high plasma levels and serious adverse reactions. Perform careful and constant monitoring of cardiovascular and respiratory (adequacy of oxygenation and ventilation) vital signs and the patient's level of consciousness after each local anesthetic injection. Use Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection in carefully restricted quantities in areas of the body supplied by end arteries or having otherwise compromised blood supply such as digits, nose, external ear, or penis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . 2.2 Recommended Concentrations and Dosages of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection The dosage of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection administered varies with the anesthetic procedure, the area to be anesthetized, the vascularity of the tissues, the number of neuronal segments to be blocked, the depth of anesthesia and degree of muscle relaxation required, the duration of anesthesia desired, individual tolerance, and the physical condition of the patient. Administer the smallest dosage and concentration required to produce the desired result. The types of block and recommended Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection concentrations are shown in Table 1. Table 1. Types of Block and Recommended Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection Concentrations Type of Block Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) is not recommended for nonobstetrical surgical procedures in pregnant patients. 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 0.5% (5 mg/mL) ✓= indicated use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Local infiltration ✓ ✓ Peripheral nerve block ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Retrobulbar block ✓ Sympathetic block ✓ Caudal block Avoid use of multiple-dose vials of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection for caudal or epidural anesthesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] . ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Lumbar epidural block ✓ ✓ ✓ (not for obstetrical anesthesia) ✓ ✓ Epidural test dose ✓ Dental block ✓ At recommended dosages, Bupivacaine Hydrochloride/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine produces complete sensory block, but the effect on motor function differs among the three concentrations. Table 2 provides information on the expected effect on motor function for the three concentrations. Table 2. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection Concentration vs. Motor Function Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Concentration Motor Function 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) These products include Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection [the epinephrine concentration (1:200,000) is not included in the table]. When used for caudal, epidural, or peripheral nerve block, produces incomplete motor block. Should be used for operations in which muscle relaxation is not important, or when another means of providing muscle relaxation is used concurrently. Onset of action may be slower than with the 0.5% (5 mg/mL) or 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) solutions. 0.5% (5 mg/mL) Provides motor blockade for caudal, epidural, or nerve block, but muscle relaxation may be inadequate for operations in which complete muscle relaxation is essential. 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) These are only Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection products [there is no 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) concentration for Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection]. Produces complete motor block. Most useful for epidural block in abdominal operations requiring complete muscle relaxation, and for retrobulbar anesthesia. Not for obstetrical anesthesia. The duration of anesthesia with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is such that for most indications, a single-dose is sufficient. The maximum dosage limit within the recommended dosage range must be individualized in each case after evaluating the size and physical status of the patient, as well as the anticipated rate of systemic absorption from a particular injection site. The dosages in Table 3 are recommended as a guide for use in the average adult. These doses may be repeated once every three hours. Do not exceed a total daily dosage of 400 mg in 24 hours. The duration of anesthetic effect may be prolonged by the addition of epinephrine. Table 3. Recommended Concentrations and Doses of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection in Adults Type of Block Concentration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Each Dose Motor Block With continuous (intermittent) techniques, repeat doses increase the degree of motor block. The first repeat dose of 0.5% (5 mg/mL) may produce complete motor block. Intercostal nerve block with 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) also may produce complete motor block for intra-thoracic and upper intra-abdominal surgery. mL mg of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Local infiltration 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) Solutions with or without epinephrine (i.e., applies to Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection). The Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection products include epinephrine (1:200,000). Up to 70 (without epinephrine) Up to 175 (without epinephrine) ― Up to 90 (with epinephrine) Up to 225 (with epinephrine) Peripheral nerve block 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 5–35 (without epinephrine) 25–175 (without epinephrine) moderate to complete 5–45 (with epinephrine) 25–225 (with epinephrine) 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 5–70 (without epinephrine) 12.5–175 (without epinephrine) moderate to complete 5–90 (with epinephrine) 12.5–225 (with epinephrine) Retrobulbar block [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) 2–4 15–30 complete Sympathetic block 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 20–50 50–125 ― Caudal block [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 15–30 75–150 moderate to complete 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 15–30 37.5–75 moderate Lumbar epidural block [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) For single-dose use; not for intermittent epidural technique. 10–20 75–150 complete 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 10–20 50–100 moderate to complete 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 10–20 25–50 partial to moderate Epidural test dose [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] 0.5% (5 mg/mL) with epinephrine 2–3 10–15 (10–15 micrograms epinephrine) ― Dental [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] 0.5% (5 mg/mL) with epinephrine 1.8–3.6 per site 9–18 per site ― 2.3 Use in Epidural Anesthesia During the administration of epidural anesthesia, it is recommended that a test dose of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection without antimicrobial preservative (0.5% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine) be administered initially and the effects monitored before the full dose is given. When using a "continuous" catheter technique, test doses should be given prior to both the initial and all supplemental doses, because a catheter in the epidural space can migrate into a blood vessel or through the dura [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . During epidural administration, administer Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection, 0.5% (5 mg/mL) and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) solutions in incremental doses of 3 mL to 5 mL with sufficient time between doses to detect toxic manifestations of unintentional intravascular or intrathecal injection. Administer injections slowly, with frequent aspirations before and during the injection to avoid intravascular injection. Perform syringe aspirations before and during each supplemental injection in continuous (intermittent) catheter techniques. In obstetrics, use ONLY the 0.5% (5 mg/mL) and 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) concentrations of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]; incremental doses of 3 mL to 5 mL of the 0.5% (5 mg/mL) solution not exceeding 50 mg to 100 mg at any dosing interval are recommended. Repeat doses should be preceded by a test dose containing epinephrine if not clinically contraindicated. Use only the single-dose vials for caudal or epidural anesthesia; avoid use of the multiple-dose vials for these procedures, which contain a preservative [see Dosage and Administration (2.1 , 2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.4 , 5.9) ] . 2.4 Test Dose for Caudal and Lumbar Epidural Blocks Three mL of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection without antimicrobial preservative (0.5% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine) is recommended for use as a test dose prior to caudal and lumbar epidural blocks when clinical conditions permit. This test dose may serve as a warning of unintended intravascular or intrathecal injection. Closely monitor for early clinical signs of toxicity following each test dose [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . Allot adequate time for onset of spinal block to detect possible intrathecal injection. An intravascular or intrathecal injection is still possible even if results of the test dose are negative. The test dose itself may produce a systemic toxic reaction, high spinal, or cardiovascular effects from the epinephrine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.9) , Overdosage (10) ]. 2.5 Use in Dentistry Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection 0.5% (5 mg/mL) is recommended for infiltration and block injection in the maxillary and mandibular area when a longer duration of local anesthesia is desired, such as for procedures generally associated with significant postoperative pain. The average dose of 1.8 mL (9 mg) per injection site will usually suffice; an occasional second dose of 1.8 mL (9 mg) may be used if necessary to produce adequate anesthesia after allowing 2 to 10 minutes for block onset [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Use the lowest effective dose and allow time between injections; it is recommended that the total dose for all injection sites, spread out over a single dental sitting, not exceed 90 mg for a healthy adult patient (ten 1.8 mL injections of 0.5% (5 mg/mL) Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection). Inject slowly and with frequent aspirations. 2.6 Use in Ophthalmic Surgery When Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) is used for retrobulbar block, complete corneal anesthesia usually precedes onset of clinically acceptable external ocular muscle akinesia. Therefore, presence of akinesia rather than anesthesia alone should determine readiness of the patient for surgery [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15) ] . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Because of possible physical incompatibilities, methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension should not be diluted or mixed with other solutions. The initial dosage of parenterally administered methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension will vary from 4 mg to 120 mg, depending on the specific disease entity being treated. However, in certain overwhelming, acute, life-threatening situations, administration in dosages exceeding the usual dosages may be justified and may be in multiples of the oral dosages. It Should Be Emphasized that Dosage Requirements Are Variable and Must Be Individualized on the Basis of the Disease Under Treatment and the Response of the Patient. After a favorable response is noted, the proper maintenance dosage should be determined by decreasing the initial drug dosage in small decrements at appropriate time intervals until the lowest dosage which will maintain an adequate clinical response is reached. Situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process, the patient’s individual drug responsiveness, and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease entity under treatment. In this latter situation, it may be necessary to increase the dosage of the corticosteroid for a period of time consistent with the patient’s condition. If after long-term therapy the drug is to be stopped, it is recommended that it be withdrawn gradually rather than abruptly. A. Administration for Local Effect Therapy with methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension does not obviate the need for the conventional measures usually employed. Although this method of treatment will ameliorate symptoms, it is in no sense a cure and the hormone has no effect on the cause of the inflammation. 1. Rheumatoid Arthritis and Osteoarthritis. The dose for intra-articular administration depends upon the size of the joint and varies with the severity of the condition in the individual patient. In chronic cases, injections may be repeated at intervals ranging from one to five or more weeks, depending upon the degree of relief obtained from the initial injection. The doses in the following table are given as a general guide: Size of Joint Examples Range of Dosage Large Knees Ankles Shoulders 20 mg to 80 mg Medium Elbows Wrists 10 mg to 40 mg Small Metacarpophalangeal Interphalangeal Sternoclavicular Acromioclavicular 4 mg to 10 mg Procedure: It is recommended that the anatomy of the joint involved be reviewed before attempting intra-articular injection. In order to obtain the full anti-inflammatory effect, it is important that the injection be made into the synovial space. Employing the same sterile technique as for a lumbar puncture, a sterile 20 to 24 gauge needle (on a dry syringe) is quickly inserted into the synovial cavity. Procaine infiltration is elective. The aspiration of only a few drops of joint fluid proves the joint space has been entered by the needle. The injection site for each joint is determined by that location where the synovial cavity is most superficial and most free of large vessels and nerves. With the needle in place, the aspirating syringe is removed and replaced by a second syringe containing the desired amount of methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension. The plunger is then pulled outward slightly to aspirate synovial fluid and to make sure the needle is still in the synovial space. After injection, the joint is moved gently a few times to aid mixing of the synovial fluid and the suspension. The site is covered with a small sterile dressing. Suitable sites for intra-articular injection are the knee, ankle, wrist, elbow, shoulder, phalangeal, and hip joints. Since difficulty is not infrequently encountered in entering the hip joint, precautions should be taken to avoid any large blood vessels in the area. Joints not suitable for injection are those that are anatomically inaccessible such as the spinal joints and those like the sacroiliac joints that are devoid of synovial space. Treatment failures are most frequently the result of failure to enter the joint space. Little or no benefit follows injection into surrounding tissue. If failures occur when injections into the synovial spaces are certain, as determined by aspiration of fluid, repeated injections are usually futile. If a local anesthetic is used prior to injection of methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension, the anesthetic package insert should be read carefully and all the precautions observed. Bursitis . The area around the injection site is prepared in a sterile way and a wheal at the site made with 1 percent procaine hydrochloride solution. A 20 to 24 gauge needle attached to a dry syringe is inserted into the bursa and the fluid aspirated. The needle is left in place and the aspirating syringe changed for a small syringe containing the desired dose. After injection, the needle is withdrawn and a small dressing applied. 3. Miscellaneous: Ganglion, Tendinitis, Epicondylitis. In the treatment of conditions such as tendinitis or tenosynovitis, care should be taken following application of a suitable antiseptic to the overlying skin to inject the suspension into the tendon sheath rather than into the substance of the tendon. The tendon may be readily palpated when placed on a stretch. When treating conditions such as epicondylitis, the area of greatest tenderness should be outlined carefully and the suspension infiltrated into the area. For ganglia of the tendon sheaths, the suspension is injected directly into the cyst. In many cases, a single injection causes a marked decrease in the size of the cystic tumor and may effect disappearance. The usual sterile precautions should be observed, of course, with each injection. The dose in the treatment of the various conditions of the tendinous or bursal structures listed above varies with the condition being treated and ranges from 4 mg to 30 mg. In recurrent or chronic conditions, repeated injections may be necessary. 4. Injections for Local Effect in Dermatologic Conditions . Following cleansing with an appropriate antiseptic such as 70% alcohol, 20 mg to 60 mg is injected into the lesion. It may be necessary to distribute doses ranging from 20 mg to 40 mg by repeated local injections in the case of large lesions. Care should be taken to avoid injection of sufficient material to cause blanching since this may be followed by a small slough. One to four injections are usually employed, the intervals between injections varying with the type of lesion being treated and the duration of improvement produced by the initial injection. B. Administration for Systemic Effect The intramuscular dosage will vary with the condition being treated. When employed as a temporary substitute for oral therapy, a single injection during each 24-hour period of a dose of the suspension equal to the total daily oral dose of methylprednisolone tablets, USP is usually sufficient. When a prolonged effect is desired, the weekly dose may be calculated by multiplying the daily oral dose by 7 and given as a single intramuscular injection. In pediatric patients, the initial dose of methylprednisolone may vary depending on the specific disease entity being treated. Dosage must be individualized according to the severity of the disease and response of the patient. The recommended dosage may be reduced for pediatric patients, but dosage should be governed by the severity of the condition rather than by strict adherence to the ratio indicated by age or body weight. In patients with the adrenogenital syndrome , a single intramuscular injection of 40 mg every two weeks may be adequate. For maintenance of patients with rheumatoid arthritis , the weekly intramuscular dose will vary from 40 mg to 120 mg. The usual dosage for patients with dermatologic lesions benefited by systemic corticoid therapy is 40 mg to 120 mg of methylprednisolone acetate administered intramuscularly at weekly intervals for one to four weeks. In acute severe dermatitis due to poison ivy, relief may result within 8 to 12 hours following intramuscular administration of a single-dose of 80 mg to 120 mg. In chronic contact dermatitis, repeated injections at 5 to 10 day intervals may be necessary. In seborrheic dermatitis, a weekly dose of 80 mg may be adequate to control the condition. Following intramuscular administration of 80 mg to 120 mg to asthmatic patients, relief may result within 6 to 48 hours and persist for several days to two weeks. If signs of stress are associated with the condition being treated, the dosage of the suspension should be increased. If a rapid hormonal effect of maximum intensity is required, the intravenous administration of highly soluble methylprednisolone sodium succinate is indicated. For the purpose of comparison, the following is the equivalent milligram dose of the various glucocorticoids: Cortisone, 25 Triamcinolone, 4 Hydrocortisone, 20 Paramethasone, 2 Prednisolone, 5 Betamethasone, 0.75 Prednisone, 5 Dexamethasone, 0.75 Methylprednisolone, 4 These dose relationships apply only to oral or intravenous administration of these compounds. When these substances or their derivatives are injected intramuscularly or into joint spaces, their relative properties may be greatly altered. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Table 1 (Recommended Dosages) summarizes the recommended volumes and concentrations of lidocaine hydrochloride injection for various types of anesthetic procedures. The dosages suggested in this table are for normal healthy adults and refer to the use of epinephrine-free solutions. When larger volumes are required, only solutions containing epinephrine should be used except in those cases where vasopressor drugs may be contraindicated. There have been adverse event reports of chondrolysis in patients receiving intra-articular infusions of local anesthetics following arthroscopic and other surgical procedures. Lidocaine hydrochloride injection is not approved for this use (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). These recommended doses serve only as a guide to the amount of anesthetic required for most routine procedures. The actual volumes and concentrations to be used depend on a number of factors such as type and extent of surgical procedure, depth of anesthesia and degree of muscular relaxation required, duration of anesthesia required, and the physical condition of the patient. In all cases the lowest concentration and smallest dose that will produce the desired result should be given. Dosages should be reduced for children and for the elderly and debilitated patients and patients with cardiac and/or liver disease. The onset of anesthesia, the duration of anesthesia and the degree of muscular relaxation are proportional to the volume and concentration (i.e., total dose) of local anesthetic used. Thus, an increase in volume and concentration of lidocaine hydrochloride injection will decrease the onset of anesthesia, prolong the duration of anesthesia, provide a greater degree of muscular relaxation and increase the segmental spread of anesthesia. However, increasing the volume and concentration of lidocaine hydrochloride injection may result in a more profound fall in blood pressure when used in epidural anesthesia. Although the incidence of side effects with lidocaine hydrochloride is quite low, caution should be exercised when employing large volumes and concentrations, since the incidence of side effects is directly proportional to the total dose of local anesthetic agent injected. Epidural Anesthesia For epidural anesthesia the following dosage form of lidocaine hydrochloride injection is recommended: 1% without epinephrine 30 mL single dose vials Although this solution is intended specifically for epidural anesthesia, it may also be used for infiltration and peripheral nerve block, provided it is employed as a single dose unit. This solution contains no bacteriostatic agent. In epidural anesthesia, the dosage varies with the number of dermatomes to be anesthetized (generally 2 to 3 mL of the indicated concentration per dermatome). Caudal and Lumbar Epidural Block As a precaution against the adverse experience sometimes observed following unintentional penetration of the subarachnoid space, a test dose such as 2 to 3 mL of 1.5% lidocaine hydrochloride should be administered at least 5 minutes prior to injecting the total volume required for a lumbar or caudal epidural block. The test dose should be repeated if the patient is moved in a manner that may have displaced the catheter. Epinephrine, if contained in the test dose (10 to 15 mcg have been suggested), may serve as a warning of unintentional intravascular injection. If injected into a blood vessel, this amount of epinephrine is likely to produce a transient “epinephrine response” within 45 seconds, consisting of an increase in heart rate and systolic blood pressure, circumoral pallor, palpitations and nervousness in the unsedated patient. The sedated patient may exhibit only a pulse rate increase of 20 or more beats per minute for 15 or more seconds. Patients on beta blockers may not manifest changes in heart rate, but blood pressure monitoring can detect an evanescent rise in systolic blood pressure. Adequate time should be allowed for onset of anesthesia after administration of each test dose. The rapid injection of a large volume of lidocaine hydrochloride injection through the catheter should be avoided, and, when feasible, fractional doses should be administered. In the event of the known injection of a large volume of local anesthetic solution into the subarachnoid space, after suitable resuscitation and if the catheter is in place, consider attempting the recovery of drug by draining a moderate amount of cerebrospinal fluid (such as 10 mL) through the epidural catheter. Directions Povidone iodine: Tear at notch, remove applicator, use only once. As a first aid antiseptic clean affected area apply 1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage, if bandaged let dry. For preoperative patient skin preparation clean area apply to operative site prior to surgery using the applicator DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The volume of the preparation to be used for diluting or dissolving any drug for injection, is dependent on the vehicle concentration, dose and route of administration as recommended by the manufacturer. This parenteral should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The volume of the preparation to be used for diluting or dissolving any drug for injection is dependent on the vehicle concentration, dose and route of administration as recommended by the manufacturer. Directions apply to skin as needed discard after single use
Warnings: WARNINGS: If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Do not use if tamper evident seal is broken or missing. Store in a cool, dry place. WARNINGS FOR IRRIGATION ONLY. NOT FOR INJECTION. Entry of a hypotonic solution into the circulation may cause hemolysis. Irrigating fluids have been demonstrated to enter the systemic circulation in relatively large volumes; thus, each of these irrigations must be regarded as a systemic drug. Absorption of large amounts can cause fluid and/or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations, overhydration, congested states or pulmonary edema. The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of administered parenteral solutions. The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of such solutions. Do not heat over 66° C (150° F). WARNINGS SECTION WARNINGS: Keep out of reach of children. Do not use if tamper-evident seal is broken or missing. If symptoms worsen or persist for more than a few days, consult a doctor. If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a doctor before use. WARNINGS 14.6% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP is hypertonic and must be diluted prior to administration. Inadvertent direct injection or absorption of concentrated sodium chloride solution may give rise to sudden hypernatremia and such complications as cardiovascular shock, central nervous system disorders, extensive hemolysis, cortical necrosis of the kidneys and severe local tissue necrosis (if administered extravascularly). Solutions containing sodium ions should be used with great care, if at all, in patients with congestive heart failure, severe renal insufficiency and in clinical states in which there exists edema with sodium retention. In patients with diminished renal function, administration of solutions containing sodium may result in sodium retention. The intravenous administration of this solution (after appropriate dilution) can cause fluid and/or solute overload resulting in dilution of other serum electrolyte concentrations, overhydration, congested states or pulmonary edema. Excessive administration of potassium free solutions may result in significant hypokalemia. WARNING: This product contains aluminum that may be toxic. Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired. Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature, and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions, which contain aluminum. Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function, including premature neonates, who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg/kg/day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity. Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration. Warnings Use only if cap seal is unbroken. If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a healthcare professional before use. Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children. WARNINGS Serious Neurologic Adverse Reactions with Epidural Administration Serious neurologic events, some resulting in death, have been reported with epidural injection of corticosteroids. Specific events reported include, but are not limited to, spinal cord infarction, paraplegia, quadriplegia, cortical blindness, and stroke. These serious neurologic events have been reported with and without use of fluoroscopy. The safety and effectiveness of epidural administration of corticosteroids have not been established, and corticosteroids are not approved for this use. General This product is not suitable for multi-dose use. Following administration of the desired dose, any remaining suspension should be discarded. Injection of methylprednisolone acetate may result in dermal and/or subdermal changes forming depressions in the skin at the injection site. In order to minimize the incidence of dermal and subdermal atrophy, care must be exercised not to exceed recommended doses in injections. Multiple small injections into the area of the lesion should be made whenever possible. The technique of intra-articular and intramuscular injection should include precautions against injection or leakage into the dermis. Injection into the deltoid muscle should be avoided because of a high incidence of subcutaneous atrophy. It is critical that, during administration of methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension, appropriate technique be used and care taken to ensure proper placement of drug. Rare instances of anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Increased dosage of rapidly acting corticosteroids is indicated in patients on corticosteroid therapy subjected to any unusual stress before, during, and after the stressful situation. Results from one multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled study with methylprednisolone hemisuccinate, an IV corticosteroid, showed an increase in early (at 2 weeks) and late (at 6 months) mortality in patients with cranial trauma who were determined not to have other clear indications for corticosteroid treatment. High doses of systemic corticosteroids, including methylprednisolone acetate, should not be used for the treatment of traumatic brain injury. Cardio-renal Average and large doses of corticosteroids can cause elevation of blood pressure, salt and water retention, and increased excretion of potassium. These effects are less likely to occur with synthetic derivatives when used in large doses. Dietary salt restriction and potassium supplementation may be necessary. All corticosteroids increase calcium excretion. Literature reports suggest an apparent association between use of corticosteroids and left ventricular free wall rupture after a recent myocardial infarction; therefore, therapy with corticosteroids should be used with great caution in these patients. Endocrine Hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis suppression. Cushing’s syndrome, and Hyperglycemia: Monitor patients for these conditions with chronic use. Corticosteroids can produce reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment. Drug induced secondary adrenocortical insufficiency may be minimized by gradual reduction of dosage. This type of relative insufficiency may persist for months after discontinuation of therapy; therefore, in any situation of stress occurring during that period, hormone therapy should be reinstituted. Infections General Persons who are on corticosteroids are more susceptible to infections than are healthy individuals. There may be decreased resistance and inability to localize infection when corticosteroids are used. Infections with any pathogen (viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan, or helminthic) in any location of the body, may be associated with the use of corticosteroids alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents. These infections may be mild, but can be severe and at times fatal. With increasing doses of corticosteroids, the rate of occurrence of infectious complications increases. Do not use intra-articularly, intrabursally, or for intratendinous administration for local effect in the presence of an acute infection. Corticosteroids may mask some signs of infection and new infections may appear during their use. Fungal Infections Corticosteroids may exacerbate systemic fungal infections and therefore should not be used in the presence of such infections unless they are needed to control drug interactions. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions , Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents ). Special Pathogens Latent disease may be activated or there may be an exacerbation of intercurrent infections due to pathogens, including those caused by Amoeba, Candida, Cryptococcus, Mycobacterium, Nocardia, Pneumocystis, and Toxoplasma. It is recommended that latent amebiasis or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating corticosteroid therapy in any patient who has spent time in the tropics or in any patient with unexplained diarrhea. Similarly, corticosteroids should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides (threadworm) infestation. In such patients, corticosteroid-induced immunosuppression may lead to Strongyloides hyperinfection and dissemination with widespread larval migration, often accompanied by severe enterocolitis and potentially fatal gram-negative septicemia. Corticosteroids should not be used in cerebral malaria. There is currently no evidence of benefit from steroids in this condition. Tuberculosis The use of corticosteroids in active tuberculosis should be restricted to those cases of fulminating or disseminated tuberculosis in which the corticosteroid is used for the management of the disease in conjunction with an appropriate antituberculous regimen. If corticosteroids are indicated in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, close observation is necessary, as reactivation of the disease may occur. During prolonged corticosteroid therapy, these patients should receive chemoprophylaxis. Vaccinations Administration of live or live, attenuated vaccines is contraindicated in patients receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids. Killed or inactivated vaccines may be administered. However, the response to such vaccines cannot be predicted. Immunization procedures may be undertaken in patients who are receiving corticosteroids as replacement therapy (e.g., for Addison’s disease). Viral Infections Chicken pox and measles can have a more serious or even fatal course in pediatric and adult patients on corticosteroids. In pediatric and adult patients who have not had these diseases, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If exposed to chicken pox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If exposed to measles, prophylaxis with immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated (see the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information). If chicken pox develops, treatment with antiviral agents should be considered. Ophthalmic Use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts, glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves, and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to bacteria, fungi, or viruses. The use of systemic corticosteroids is not recommended in the treatment of optic neuritis and may lead to an increase in the risk of new episodes. Corticosteroids should be used cautiously in patients with ocular herpes simplex because of corneal perforation. Corticosteroids should not be used in active ocular herpes simplex. WARNINGS LIDOCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE INJECTION FOR INFILTRATION AND NERVE BLOCK SHOULD BE EMPLOYED ONLY BY CLINICIANS WHO ARE WELL VERSED IN DIAGNOSIS AND MANAGEMENT OF DOSE-RELATED TOXICITY AND OTHER ACUTE EMERGENCIES THAT MIGHT ARISE FROM THE BLOCK TO BE EMPLOYED AND THEN ONLY AFTER ENSURING THE IMMEDIATE AVAILABILITY OF OXYGEN, OTHER RESUSCITATIVE DRUGS, CARDIOPULMONARY EQUIPMENT AND THE PERSONNEL NEEDED FOR PROPER MANAGEMENT OF TOXIC REACTIONS AND RELATED EMERGENCIES (see also ADVERSE REACTIONS and PRECAUTIONS ). DELAY IN PROPER MANAGEMENT OF DOSE-RELATED TOXICITY, UNDERVENTILATION FROM ANY CAUSE AND/OR ALTERED SENSITIVITY MAY LEAD TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF ACIDOSIS, CARDIAC ARREST AND, POSSIBLY, DEATH. Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use. Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia, patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia, cardiac or pulmonary compromise, infants under 6 months of age, and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition. If local anesthetics must be used in these patients, close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended. Signs of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure, and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and/or abnormal coloration of the blood. Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise; therefore, immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects, including seizures, coma, arrhythmias, and death. Discontinue lidocaine hydrochloride and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of the signs and symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care, i.e., oxygen therapy, hydration. A more severe clinical presentation may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. Intra-articular infusions of local anesthetics following arthroscopic and other surgical procedures is an unapproved use, and there have been post-marketing reports of chondrolysis in patients receiving such infusions. The majority of reported cases of chondrolysis have involved the shoulder joint; cases of gleno-humeral chondrolysis have been described in pediatric and adult patients following intra-articular infusions of local anesthetics with and without epinephrine for periods of 48 to 72 hours. There is insufficient information to determine whether shorter infusion periods are not associated with these findings. The time of onset of symptoms, such as joint pain, stiffness and loss of motion can be variable, but may begin as early as the 2 nd month after surgery. Currently, there is no effective treatment for chondrolysis; patients who experienced chondrolysis have required additional diagnostic and therapeutic procedures and some required arthroplasty or shoulder replacement. To avoid intravascular injection, aspiration should be performed before the local anesthetic solution is injected. The needle must be repositioned until no return of blood can be elicited by aspiration. Note, however, that the absence of blood in the syringe does not guarantee that intravascular injection has been avoided. Anaphylactic reactions may occur following administration of lidocaine hydrochloride (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). In the case of severe reaction, discontinue the use of the drug. Warnings: FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY WARNINGS Intravenous administration of Sterile Water for Injection without a solute may result in hemolysis. Warnings For external use only Flammable - keep away from fire or flame Do not use with electrocautery procedures When using this product do not get into eyes apply over large areas of the body in case of deep or puncture wounds, animal bites or serious burns consult a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if condition persists or gets worse or lasts for more than 72 hours do not use longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS NOT FOR INJECTION BY USUAL PARENTERAL ROUTES. An electrolyte solution should not be used for irrigation during electrosurgical procedures. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ringer’s Injection is contraindicated in: Neonates (28 days of age or younger) who are receiving concomitant treatment with ceftriaxone, even if separate infusion lines are used, due to the risk of fatal ceftriaxone-calcium salt precipitation in the neonate’s bloodstream [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Specific Populations (8.4) ] . Patients with known hypersensitivity to any components of Ringer’s Injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Concomitant treatment with ceftriaxone in neonates (28 days of age or younger). ( 4) Patients with known hypersensitivity to Ringer’s Injection. ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS 14.6% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Additive Solution is contraindicated in patients with hypernatremia or fluid retention. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection is contraindicated in patients with: • Severe sinus bradycardia: May precipitate or worsen bradycardia resulting in cardiogenic shock and cardiac arrest [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . • Heart block greater than first degree: Second- or third-degree atrioventricular block may precipitate or worsen bradycardia resulting in cardiogenic shock and cardiac arrest [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . • Sick sinus syndrome: May precipitate or worsen bradycardia resulting in cardiogenic shock and cardiac arrest [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . • Decompensated heart failure: May worsen heart failure. • Cardiogenic shock: May precipitate further cardiovascular collapse and cause cardiac arrest. • IV administration of cardiodepressant calcium-channel antagonists (e.g., verapamil) and esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection in close proximity (i.e., while cardiac effects from the other are still present); fatal cardiac arrests have occurred in patients receiving esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection and intravenous verapamil. • Pulmonary hypertension: May precipitate cardiorespiratory compromise. • Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, to esmolol or any of the inactive ingredients of the product (cross-sensitivity between beta blockers is possible). • Severe sinus bradycardia ( 4 ) • Heart block greater than first degree ( 4 ) • Sick sinus syndrome ( 4 ) • Decompensated heart failure ( 4 ) • Cardiogenic shock ( 4 ) • Coadministration of IV cardiodepressant calcium-channel antagonists (e.g. verapamil) in close proximity to esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection ( 4 , 7 ) • Pulmonary hypertension ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to esmolol ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is contraindicated in: obstetrical paracervical block anesthesia. Its use in this technique has resulted in fetal bradycardia and death. intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier Block) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. patients with a known hypersensitivity to bupivacaine or to any local anesthetic agent of the amide-type or to other components of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection. Obstetrical paracervical block anesthesia. ( 4 ) Intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier Block). ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to bupivacaine or to any local anesthetic agent of the amide-type or to other components of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection. CONTRAINDICATIONS Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to the product and its constituents. Intramuscular corticosteroid preparations are contraindicated for idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura. Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is contraindicated for intrathecal administration. This formulation of methylprednisolone acetate has been associated with reports of severe medical events when administered by this route. Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is contraindicated in systemic fungal infections, except when administered as an intra-articular injection for localized joint conditions (see WARNINGS : Infections, Fungal Infections ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Lidocaine hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type. CONTRAINDICATIONS Sterile Water for Injection, USP must be made approximately isotonic prior to use.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that Affect Electrolyte and/or Fluid Balance : Avoid concomitant use. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, closely monitor electrolyte concentrations and fluid balance. ( 7.1 ) Lithium : Avoid concomitant use. If concomitant use is unavoidable monitor serum lithium concentrations more frequently. ( 7.2 ) Digoxin : Consider reducing the volume or rate of Ringer’s Injection due to the increased risk of digoxin toxicity with calcium-containing solutions. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Drugs that Affect Electrolyte and/or Fluid Balance Hyperkalemia Administration of Ringer’s Injection to patients concomitantly treated or recently treated with drugs that are associated with hyperkalemia increases the risk of severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of other hyperkalemia risk factors . Avoid use of Ringer’s Injection in patients receiving drugs that are associated with hyperkalemia (e.g., potassium-sparing diuretics, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or calcineurin inhibitors). If concomitant use cannot be avoided, closely monitor serum potassium concentrations during concomitant use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Hyponatremia Administration of Ringer’s Injection to patients treated concomitantly with drugs associated with hyponatremia may increase the risk of developing hyponatremia. These drugs include diuretics and those that cause SIADH (e.g., arginine vasopressin analogs, certain antiepileptic, psychotropic, or cytotoxic drugs). Avoid use of Ringer’s Injection in patients receiving such drugs. If use cannot be avoided, closely monitor serum sodium concentrations during concomitant use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Hypercalcemia Avoid the use of Ringer’s Injection in patients treated with thiazide diuretics or vitamin D because these drugs can increase the risk of hypercalcemia. If use cannot be avoided, closely monitor serum calcium concentrations during concomitant use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Hypernatremia and Fluid Retention Administration of Ringer’s Injection to patients treated concomitantly with drugs associated with sodium and fluid retention (e.g., corticosteroids or corticotropin) may increase the risk of hypernatremia and volume overload. If use cannot be avoided, closely monitor serum electrolytes, fluid balance, and acid-base balance during concomitant use. 7.2 Lithium Renal sodium and lithium clearance may be increased during concomitant use of Ringer’s Injection and lithium and may result in decreased lithium concentrations. Avoid use of Ringer’s Injection in patients receiving lithium. If use cannot be avoided, increase the frequency of monitoring of serum lithium concentrations during concomitant use. 7.3 Digoxin Administration of calcium via use of Ringer’s Injection may increase digoxin’s effects and lead to digoxin toxicity including serious or fatal cardiac arrhythmias. In digoxin-treated patients, consider reducing the volume and/or rate of Ringer’s Injection administration . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant use of esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection with other drugs that can lower blood pressure, reduce myocardial contractility, or interfere with sinus node function or electrical impulse propagation in the myocardium can exaggerate esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection’s effects on blood pressure, contractility, and impulse propagation. Severe interactions with such drugs can result in, for example, severe hypotension, cardiac failure, severe bradycardia, sinus pause, sinoatrial block, atrioventricular block, and/or cardiac arrest. In addition, with some drugs, beta blockade may precipitate increased withdrawal effects. (See clonidine, guanfacine, and moxonidine below). Esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection should therefore be used only after careful individual assessment of the risks and expected benefits in patients receiving drugs that can cause these types of pharmacodynamic interactions, including but not limited to: • Digitalis glycosides: Concomitant administration of digoxin and esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection leads to an approximate 10% to 20% increase of digoxin blood levels at some time points. Digoxin does not affect esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection pharmacokinetics. Both digoxin and beta blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use increases the risk of bradycardia. • Anticholinesterases: Esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection prolonged the duration of succinylcholine-induced neuromuscular blockade and moderately prolonged clinical duration and recovery index of mivacurium. • Antihypertensive agents clonidine, guanfacine, or moxonidine: Beta blockers also increase the risk of clonidine-, guanfacine-, or moxonidine-withdrawal rebound hypertension. If, during concomitant use of a beta blocker, antihypertensive therapy needs to be interrupted or discontinued, discontinue the beta blocker first, and the discontinuation should be gradual. • Calcium channel antagonists: In patients with depressed myocardial function, use of esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection with cardiodepressant calcium channel antagonists (e.g., verapamil) can lead to fatal cardiac arrests. • Sympathomimetic drugs: Sympathomimetic drugs having beta-adrenergic agonist activity will counteract effects of esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection. • Vasoconstrictive and positive inotropic agents: Because of the risk of reducing cardiac contractility in presence of high systemic vascular resistance, do not use esmolol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection to control tachycardia in patients receiving drugs that are vasoconstrictive and have positive inotropic effects, such as epinephrine, norepinephrine, and dopamine. • Digitalis glycosides: Risk of bradycardia ( 7 ) • Anticholinesterases: Prolongs neuromuscular blockade ( 7 ) • Antihypertensive agents: Risk of rebound hypertension ( 7 ) • Sympathomimetic drugs: Dose adjustment needed ( 7 ) • Vasoconstrictive and positive inotropic effect substances: Avoid concomitant use ( 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Local Anesthetics : The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. Monitor for neurologic and cardiovascular effects when additional local anesthetics are administered. ( 7.1 ) Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants : Administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. Concurrent use of these agents should generally be avoided. ( 5.6 , 7.2 ) Ergot-Type Oxytocic Drugs : Concurrent administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and ergot-type oxytocic drugs may cause severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents. ( 5.6 , 7.3 ) Nonselective Beta-Adrenergic Antagonists : Administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection (containing a vasoconstrictor) in patients receiving nonselective beta-adrenergic antagonists may cause severe hypertension and bradycardia. ( 5.6 , 7.4 ) Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia : Patients are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to nitrates, nitrites, local anesthetics, antineoplastic agents, antibiotics, antimalarials, anticonvulsants, and other drugs. ( 7.5 ) Potent Inhalation Anesthetics : Serious dose-related cardiac arrhythmias may occur if preparations containing a vasoconstrictor such as epinephrine are used in patients during or following the administration of potent inhalation anesthetics. ( 5.13 , 7.6 ) 7.1 Local Anesthetics The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. If coadministration of other local anesthetics with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection cannot be avoided, monitor patients for neurologic and cardiovascular effects related to local anesthetic systemic toxicity [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants The administration Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors, or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful monitoring of the patient's hemodynamic status is essential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . 7.3 Ergot-Type Oxytocic Drugs Concurrent administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and ergot-type oxytocic drugs may cause severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents. Avoid use of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine concomitantly with ergot-type oxytocic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. 7.4 Nonselective Beta-Adrenergic Antagonists Administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection (containing a vasoconstrictor) in patients receiving nonselective beta-adrenergic antagonists may cause severe hypertension and bradycardia. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful monitoring of the patient's blood pressure and heart rate is essential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. 7.5 Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia Patients who are administered Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to following drugs, which could include other local anesthetics [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia: Class Examples Nitrates/Nitrites nitric oxide, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, nitrous oxide Local anesthetics articaine, benzocaine, bupivacaine, lidocaine, mepivacaine, prilocaine, procaine, ropivacaine, tetracaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide, flutamide, hydroxyurea, isofamide, rasburicase Antibiotics dapsone, nitrofurantoin, para-aminosalicylic acid, sulfonamides Antimalarials chloroquine, primaquine Anticonvulsants phenobarbital, phenytoin, sodium valproate Other drugs acetaminophen, metoclopramide, quinine, sulfasalazine 7.6 Potent Inhalation Anesthetics Serious dose-related cardiac arrhythmias may occur if preparations containing a vasoconstrictor such as epinephrine (e.g., Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection) are used in patients during or following the administration of potent inhalation anesthetics [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] . 7.7 Phenothiazines and Butyrophenones Phenothiazines and butyrophenones may reduce or reverse the pressor effect of epinephrine. Concurrent use of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and these agents should generally be avoided. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful patient monitoring is essential. Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide : Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents: When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium depleting agents (e.g., amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics : Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions , Hepatic Enzyme Inhibitors ). Anticholinesterases: Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants , oral : Co-administration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics: Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentration, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular drugs: Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine: Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of oral corticosteroids. Cyclosporine: Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis glycosides: Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, including oral contraceptives: Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin): Drugs which induce cytochrome P450 3A4 enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Hepatic Enzyme Inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin and troleandomycin): Drugs which inhibit cytochrome P450 3A4 have the potential to result in increased plasma concentrations of corticosteroids. Ketoconazole : Ketoconazole has been reported to significantly decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) : Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Skin tests : Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Vaccines : Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS : Infections, Vaccinations ). Clinically Significant Drug Interactions The administration of local anesthetic solutions containing epinephrine or norepinephrine to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. Phenothiazines and butyrophenones may reduce or reverse the pressor effect of epinephrine. Concurrent administration of vasopressor drugs (for the treatment of hypotension related to obstetric blocks) and ergot-type oxytocic drugs may cause severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents.

=== CYCLOBENZAPRINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets, USP are indicated as an adjunct to rest and physical therapy for relief of muscle spasm associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions. Improvement is manifested by relief of muscle spasm and its associated signs and symptoms, namely, pain, tenderness, limitation of motion, and restriction in activities of daily living. Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets should be used only for short periods (up to 2 or 3 weeks) because adequate evidence of effectiveness for more prolonged use is not available and because muscle spasm associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions is generally of short duration and specific therapy for longer periods is seldom warranted. Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets have not been found effective in the treatment of spasticity associated with cerebral or spinal cord disease, or in children with cerebral palsy. Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets, USP should be used only for short periods (up to two or three weeks) because adequate evidence of effectiveness for more prolonged use is not available and because muscle spasm associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions is generally of short duration and specific therapy for longer periods is seldom warranted. Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets, USP have not been found effective in the treatment of spasticity associated with cerebral or spinal cord disease, or in children with cerebral palsy. Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets, USP has not been found effective in the treatment of spasticity associated with cerebral or spinal cord disease, or in children with cerebral palsy.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For most patients, the recommended dose of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets is 5 mg three times a day. Based on individual patient response, the dose may be increased to 10 mg three times a day. Use of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets for periods longer than 2 or 3 weeks is not recommended (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE) . Less frequent dosing should be considered for hepatically impaired or elderly patients (see PRECAUTIONS: Impaired Hepatic Function , and Use in the Elderly). Use of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets for periods longer than two or three weeks is not recommended. (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ). Less frequent dosing should be considered for hepatically impaired or elderly patients (see PRECAUTIONS, Impaired Hepatic Function , and Use in the Elderly ). Based on individual patient response, the dose may be increased to either 7.5 or 10 mg three times a day. Less frequent dosing should be considered for hepatically impaired or elderly patients (see PRECAUTIONS , Impaired Hepatic Function , and Use in the Elderly ). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For most patients, the recommended dose of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets, USP is 5 mg three times a day. Use of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets, USP for periods longer than two or three weeks is not recommended.
Warnings: WARNINGS Serotonin Syndrome The development of a potentially life-threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride when used in combination with other drugs, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), tramadol, bupropion, meperidine, verapamil, or (MAO) inhibitors. The concomitant use of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride with MAO inhibitors is contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., confusion, agitation, hallucinations), autonomic instability (e.g., diaphoresis, tachycardia, labile blood pressure, hyperthermia), neuromuscular abnormalities (e.g., tremor, ataxia, hyperreflexia, clonus, muscle rigidity), and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). Treatment with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride and any concomitant serotonergic agents should be discontinued immediately if the above reactions occur and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated. If concomitant treatment with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride and other serotonergic drugs is clinically warranted, careful observation is advised, particularly during treatment initiation or dose increases (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Cyclobenzaprine is closely related to the tricyclic antidepressants, e.g., amitriptyline and imipramine. In short term studies for indications other than muscle spasm associated with acute musculoskeletal conditions, and usually at doses somewhat greater than those recommended for skeletal muscle spasm, some of the more serious central nervous system reactions noted with the tricyclic antidepressants have occurred (see WARNINGS , below, and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to produce arrhythmias, sinus tachycardia, prolongation of the conduction time leading to myocardial infarction and stroke. Cyclobenzaprine may enhance the effects of alcohol, barbiturates, and other CNS depressants. WARNINGS Serotonin Syndrome The development of a potentially life-threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride when used in combination with other drugs, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), tramadol, bupropion, meperidine, verapamil, or MAO inhibitors. If concomitant treatment with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride and other serotonergic drugs is clinically warranted, careful observation is advised, particularly during treatment initiation or dose increases (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride may enhance the effects of alcohol, barbiturates, and other CNS depressants. The concomitant use of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride with MAO inhibitors is contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATIONS).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any component of this product. Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors or within 14 days after their discontinuation. Hyperpyretic crisis seizures and deaths have occurred in patients receiving cyclobenzaprine (or structurally similar tricyclic antidepressants) concomitantly with MAO inhibitor drugs. Acute recovery phase of myocardial infarction, and patients with arrhythmias, heart block or conduction disturbances, or congestive heart failure. Hyperthyroidism. Hyperpyretic crisis seizures, and deaths have occurred in patients receiving cyclobenzaprine (or structurally similar tricyclic antidepressants) concomitantly with MAO inhibitor drugs.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Cyclobenzaprine may have life-threatening interactions with MAO inhibitors (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Postmarketing cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during combined use of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride and other drugs, such as SSRIs, SNRIs, TCAs, tramadol, bupropion, meperidine, verapamil, or MAO inhibitors. If concomitant treatment with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride and other serotonergic drugs is clinically warranted, careful observation is advised, particularly during treatment initiation or dose increases (see WARNINGS ). Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride may enhance the effects of alcohol, barbiturates, and other CNS depressants. Tricyclic antidepressants may block the antihypertensive action of guanethidine and similarly acting compounds. Tricyclic antidepressants may enhance the seizure risk in patients taking tramadol. 2 2 ULTRAM ® (tramadol HCl tablets, PriCara, Division of Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) ULTRACET ® (tramadol HCl and acetaminophen tablets, PriCara, Division of Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) Drug Interactions Cyclobenzaprine may have life threatening interactions with MAO inhibitors (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). † † ULTRAM ® (tramadol HCl tablets, Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical) † ULTRACET ® (tramadol HCl and acetaminophen tablets, Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical) Drug Interactions Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride may have life-threatening interactions with MAO inhibitors. (See CONTRAINDICATIONS .) Postmarketing cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during combined use of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride and other drugs, such as SSRIs, SNRIs, TCAs, tramadol, bupropion, meperidine, verapamil, or MAO inhibitors.

=== ACYCLOVIR ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Herpes Zoster Infections : Acyclovir is indicated for the acute treatment of herpes zoster (shingles). Genital Herpes : Acyclovir is indicated for the treatment of initial episodes and the management of recurrent episodes of genital herpes. Chickenpox : Acyclovir is indicated for the treatment of chickenpox (varicella). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Herpes Zoster Infections: Acyclovir tablets, USP are indicated for the acute treatment of herpes zoster (shingles). Genital Herpes: Acyclovir tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of initial episodes and the management of recurrent episodes of genital herpes. Chickenpox: Acyclovir tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of chickenpox (varicella). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Herpes Zoster Infections: Acyclovir is indicated for the acute treatment of herpes zoster (shingles). Genital Herpes: Acyclovir is indicated for the treatment of initial episodes and the management of recurrent episodes of genital herpes. Chickenpox: Acyclovir is indicated for the treatment of chickenpox (varicella). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Herpes Zoster Infections: Acyclovir capsules are indicated for the acute treatment of herpes zoster (shingles). Genital Herpes: Acyclovir capsules are indicated for the treatment of initial episodes and the management of recurrent episodes of genital herpes. Chickenpox: Acyclovir capsules are indicated for the treatment of chickenpox (varicella). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Acyclovir Cream is a herpes simplex virus (HSV) deoxynucleoside analogue DNA polymerase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of recurrent herpes labialis (cold sores) in immunocompetent adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older. Acyclovir Cream is a herpes simplex virus (HSV) deoxynucleoside analogue DNA polymerase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of recurrent herpes labialis (cold sores) in immunocompetent adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ZOVIRAX Cream is a herpes simplex virus (HSV) deoxynucleoside analogue DNA polymerase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of recurrent herpes labialis (cold sores) in immunocompetent adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older. ZOVIRAX Cream is a herpes simplex virus (HSV) deoxynucleoside analogue DNA polymerase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of recurrent herpes labialis (cold sores) in immunocompetent adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Acute Treatment of Herpes Zoster : 800 mg every 4 hours orally, 5 times daily for 7 to 10 days. Genital Herpes : Treatment of Initial Genital Herpes: 200 mg every 4 hours, 5 times daily for 10 days. Chronic Suppressive Therapy for Recurrent Disease: 400 mg 2 times daily for up to 12 months, followed by re-evaluation. Alternative regimens have included doses ranging from 200 mg 3 times daily to 200 mg 5 times daily. The frequency and severity of episodes of untreated genital herpes may change over time. After 1 year of therapy, the frequency and severity of the patient's genital herpes infection should be re-evaluated to assess the need for continuation of therapy with acyclovir. Intermittent Therapy: 200 mg every 4 hours, 5 times daily for 5 days. Therapy should be initiated at the earliest sign or symptom (prodrome) of recurrence. Treatment of Chickenpox : Children (2 years of age and older): 20 mg/kg per dose orally 4 times daily (80 mg/kg/day) for 5 days. Children over 40 kg should receive the adult dose for chickenpox. Adults and Children over 40 kg: 800 mg 4 times daily for 5 days. Intravenous acyclovir is indicated for the treatment of varicella-zoster infections in immunocompromised patients. When therapy is indicated, it should be initiated at the earliest sign or symptom of chickenpox. There is no information about the efficacy of therapy initiated more than 24 hours after onset of signs and symptoms. Patients With Acute or Chronic Renal Impairment : In patients with renal impairment, the dose of acyclovir capsules should be modified as shown in Table 3 : Hemodialysis : For patients who require hemodialysis, the mean plasma half-life of acyclovir during hemodialysis is approximately 5 hours. This results in a 60% decrease in plasma concentrations following a 6-hour dialysis period. Therefore, the patient's dosing schedule should be adjusted so that an additional dose is administered after each dialysis. Peritoneal Dialysis : No supplemental dose appears to be necessary after adjustment of the dosing interval. Bioequivalence of Dosage Forms : Acyclovir Suspension was shown to be bioequivalent to acyclovir Capsules (n = 20) and 1 acyclovir 800-mg capsule was shown to be bioequivalent to 4 acyclovir 200-mg capsules (n = 24). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Acute Treatment of Herpes Zoster: 800 mg every 4 hours orally, 5 times daily for 7 to 10 days. Genital Herpes: Treatment of Initial Genital Herpes: 200 mg every 4 hours, 5 times daily for 10 days. Treatment of Chickenpox: Children (2 years of age and older): 20 mg/kg per dose orally 4 times daily (80 mg/kg/day) for 5 days. Patients With Acute or Chronic Renal Impairment: In patients with renal impairment, the dose of acyclovir tablets should be modified as shown in Table 3. Table 3. Dosage Modification for Renal Impairment Normal Dosage Regimen Creatinine Clearance (mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) Adjusted Dosage Regimen Dose (mg) Dosing Interval 200 mg every 4 hours >10 0-10 200 200 every 4 hours, 5x daily every 12 hours 400 mg every 12 hours >10 0-10 400 200 every 12 hours every 12 hours 800 mg every 4 hours >25 10-25 0-10 800 800 800 every 4 hours, 5x daily every 8 hours every 12 hours Hemodialysis: For patients who require hemodialysis, the mean plasma half-life of acyclovir during hemodialysis is approximately 5 hours. Peritoneal Dialysis: No supplemental dose appears to be necessary after adjustment of the dosing interval. Bioequivalence of Dosage Forms: Acyclovir suspension was shown to be bioequivalent to acyclovir capsules (n = 20) and one acyclovir 800-mg tablet was shown to be bioequivalent to four acyclovir 200-mg capsules (n = 24). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Acute Treatment of Herpes Zoster: 800mg every 4 hours orally, 5 times daily for 7 to 10 days. Genital Herpes: Treatment of Initial Genital Herpes: 200mg every 4 hours, 5 times daily for 10 days. Chronic Suppressive Therapy for Recurrent Disease: 400mg 2 times daily for up to 12 months, followed by re-evaluation. Alternative regimens have included doses ranging from 200mg 3 times daily to 200mg 5 times daily. Intermittent Therapy: 200mg every 4 hours, 5 times daily for 5 days. Treatment of Chickenpox: Children (2 years of age and older): 20mg/kg per dose orally 4 times daily (80mg/kg/day) for 5 days. Children over 40kg should receive the adult dose for chickenpox. Adults and Children over 40 kg: 800mg 4 times daily for 5 days. This results in a 60 % decrease in plasma concentrations following a 6-hour dialysis period. After 1 year of therapy, the frequency and severity of the patient’s genital herpes infection should be re-evaluated to assess the need for continuation of therapy with acyclovir tablets. Dosage Modification for Renal Impairment Normal Dosage Regimen Creatinine Clearance (mL/min/1.73 m 2) Adjusted Dosage Regimen Dose (mg) Dosing Interval 200 mg every 4 hours > 10 0 to 10 200 200 every 4 hours, 5x daily every 12 hours 400 mg every 12 hours > 10 0 to 10 400 200 every 12 hours every 12 hours 800 mg every 4 hours > 25 10 to 25 0 to 10 800 800 800 every 4 hours, 5x daily every 8 hours every 12 hours Hemodialysis: For patients who require hemodialysis, the mean plasma half-life of acyclovir during hemodialysis is approximately 5 hours. Therefore, the patient’s dosing schedule should be adjusted so that an additional dose is administered after each dialysis. After 1 year of therapy, the frequency and severity of the patient’s genital herpes infection should be re-evaluated to assess the need for continuation of therapy with acyclovir. Patients With Acute or Chronic Renal Impairment: In patients with renal impairment, the dose of Acyclovir Capsules should be modified as shown in Table 3. Dosage Modification for Renal Impairment Normal Dosage Regimen Creatinine Clearance (mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) Adjusted Dosage Regimen Dose (mg) Dosing Interval 200 mg every 4 hours >10 200 every 4 hours, 5x daily 0 to 10 200 every 12 hours 400 mg every 12 hours >10 400 every 12 hours 0 to 10 200 every 12 hours 800 mg every 4 hours >25 800 every 4 hours, 5x daily 10 to 25 800 every 8 hours 0 to 10 800 every 12 hours Hemodialysis: For patients who require hemodialysis, the mean plasma half-life of acyclovir during hemodialysis is approximately 5 hours. Patients With Acute or Chronic Renal Impairment : In patients with renal impairment, the dose of acyclovir capsules should be modified as shown in Table 3 : Table 3 Hemodialysis : For patients who require hemodialysis, the mean plasma half-life of acyclovir during hemodialysis is approximately 5 hours. Genital Herpes: Treatment of Initial Genital Herpes : 200 mg every 4 hours, 5 times daily for 10 days. Intermittent Therapy : 200 mg every 4 hours, 5 times daily for 5 days. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Acyclovir Cream should be applied 5 times per day for 4 days. Therapy should be initiated as early as possible following the onset of signs or symptoms of herpes labialis, i.e. during the prodrome or when lesions appear. For adolescents 12 years of age and older, the dosage is the same as in adults. Apply 5 times a day for 4 days. ( 2 ) Administer immediately following the onset of cold sore lesions. ( 2 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ZOVIRAX Cream should be applied 5 times per day for 4 days. • Apply 5 times a day for 4 days. ( 2 ) • Administer immediately following the onset of cold sore lesions.
Warnings: WARNINGS Acyclovir capsules are intended for oral ingestion only. Renal failure, in some cases resulting in death, has been observed with acyclovir therapy (see ADVERSE REACTIONS: Observed During Clinical Practice and OVERDOSAGE ). Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura/hemolytic uremic syndrome (TTP/HUS), which has resulted in death, has occurred in immunocompromised patients receiving acyclovir therapy. WARNINGS Acyclovir tablets are intended for oral ingestion only. WARNINGS Severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs), including acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), and erythema multiforme (EM) have been reported with acyclovir (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Discontinue acyclovir tablets immediately if a painful rash with mucosal involvement or a progressive severe rash develops. Closely monitor clinical status and initiate appropriate therapy. Acyclovir tablets are contraindicated in patients who have developed SCARs with the use of acyclovir or valacyclovir, or any component of the formulation (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Discontinue acyclovir capsules immediately if a painful rash with mucosal involvement or a progressive severe rash develops. Acyclovir capsules are contraindicated in patients who have developed SCARs with the use of acyclovir or valacyclovir, or any component of the formulation (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Acyclovir is contraindicated for patients who develop hypersensitivity to acyclovir or valacyclovir. CONTRAINDICATIONS CONTRAINDICATIONS Acyclovir tablets are contraindicated in patients who have had a demonstrated clinically significant hypersensitivity reaction [e.g., anaphylaxis, severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs)] to acyclovir, valacyclovir, or any component of the formulation (see WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Acyclovir capsules are contraindicated in patients who have had a demonstrated clinically significant hypersensitivity reaction [e.g., anaphylaxis, severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs)] to acyclovir, valacyclovir, or any component of the formulation (see WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Acyclovir Cream is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to acyclovir, valacyclovir, or any component of the formulation. Acyclovir Cream is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to acyclovir, valacyclovir or any component of the formulation. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ZOVIRAX Cream is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to acyclovir, valacyclovir, or any component of the formulation. • ZOVIRAX Cream is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to acyclovir, valacyclovir or any component of the formulation.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions: See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacokinetics . Drug Interactions: Coadministration of probenecid with intravenous acyclovir has been shown to increase the mean acyclovir half-life and the area under the concentration-time curve. Urinary excretion and renal clearance were correspondingly reduced. Drug Interactions: See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacokinetics . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Clinical experience has identified no interactions resulting from topical or systemic administration of other drugs concomitantly with Acyclovir Cream. Due to minimal systemic absorption of Acyclovir Cream, systemic drug interactions are unlikely. Clinical experience has identified no interactions resulting from topical or systemic administration of other drugs concomitantly with Acyclovir Cream. ( 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Clinical experience has identified no interactions resulting from topical or systemic administration of other drugs concomitantly with ZOVIRAX Cream. Due to minimal systemic absorption of ZOVIRAX Cream, systemic drug interactions are unlikely. • Clinical experience has identified no interactions resulting from topical or systemic administration of other drugs concomitantly with ZOVIRAX Cream.

=== CLOTRIMAZOLE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antifungal Cream Purpose Antifungal Active ingredients Purpose Clotrimazole USP 2% (100 mg in each applicatorful) Vaginal Antifungal Clotrimazole USP 2% (external cream) Vaginal Antifungal Purposes Antifungal
Indications: Uses Cures athlete’s foot (tinea pedis), jock itch (tinea cruris), ringworm (tinea corporis). Relieves the itching, irritation, redness, scaling and discomfort which can accompany these conditions. INDICATIONS & USAGE Prescription Clotrimazole Topical Solution product is indicated for the topical treatment of candidiasis due to Candida albicans and tinea versicolor due to Malassezia furfur . This formulation is also available as a nonprescription product which is indicated for the topical treatment of the following dermal infections: tinea pedis, tinea cruris, and tinea corporis due to Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes, Epidermophyton fluoccosum, and Microsporum canis . Uses Proven clinically effective in the treatment of most athlete's foot (tinea pedis), ringworm (tinea corporis), and jock itch (tinea cruris). For effective relief of itching, burning, and cracking skin. Uses cures most athlete’s foot, jock itch, and ringworm relieves itching, burning, cracking, scaling and discomfort which can accompany these conditions. Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream is a combination of an azole antifungal and corticosteroid and is indicated for the topical treatment of symptomatic inflammatory tinea pedis, tinea cruris, and tinea corporis due to Epidermophyton floccosum, Trichophyton mentagrophytes, and Trichophyton rubrum in patients 17 years and older. Uses Cures most athlete's foot, jock itch and ringworm. Relieves itching, burning, cracking, scaling, and discomfort Uses ▪ cures most athlete's foot, jock itch, and ringworm ▪ relieves itching, burning, cracking, scaling and discomfort INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clotrimazole is indicated for the local treatment of oropharyngeal candidiasis. The diagnosis should be confirmed by a KOH smear and/or culture prior to treatment. Clotrimazole is also indicated prophylactically to reduce the incidence of oropharyngeal candidiasis in patients immunocompromised by conditions that include chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or steroid therapy utilized in the treatment of leukemia, solid tumors, or renal transplantation. There are no data from adequate and well-controlled trials to establish the safety and efficacy of this product for prophylactic use in patients immunocompromised by etiologies other than those listed in the previous sentence. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Use treats vaginal yeast infections relieves external itching and irritation due to a vaginal yeast infection Uses cures most athlete's foot, jock itch and ringworm relieves itching, burning, cracking, scaling and discomfort which accompany these conditions
Dosage: Directions • Wash the affected area and dry thoroughly. ● Apply a thin layer of this product over affected area twice daily (morning and night), or as directed by a doctor. ● Supervise children in the use of this product. ● For athlete’s foot, pay special attention to the spaces between the toes; wear well-fitting ventilated shoes, and change shoes and socks at least once daily. ● For athlete’s foot and ringworm, use daily for 4 weeks. For jock itch, use daily for 2 weeks. ● If conditions persists longer, consult a doctor. ● This product is not effective on the scalp or nails. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Gently massage sufficient Clotrimazole Topical Solution, USP 1% into the affected and surrounding skin areas twice a day, in the morning and evening. Clinical improvement, with relief of pruritus, usually occurs within the first week of treatment with Clotrimazole Topical Solution, USP 1%. If the patient shows no clinical improvement after 4 weeks of treatment with Clotrimazole Topical Solution, USP 1% the diagnosis should be reviewed. Directions Directions Wash and diy affected area thoroughly. Apply a thin layer over affected area twice daily (moming and night). Supervise children in the use of this product. For athlete’s foot: pay special attention to the spaces between the toes. Wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily. For athlete’s foot and ringworm. use daily for 4 weeks. If condition persists longer, ask a doctor. This product is not effective on the scalp or nails Directions wash the affected area and dry thoroughly apply a thin layer over affected area twice daily (morning and night) supervise children in the use of this product. for athlete's foot, pay special attention to the spaces between the toes; wear well-fitting ventilated shoes, and change shoes and socks at least once daily. for athlete's foot and ringworm; use daily for 4 weeks. if conditions persists longer, consult a doctor. this product is not effective on the scalp or nails. Treatment of tinea corporis or tinea cruris: Apply a thin film of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream into the affected skin areas twice a day for one week. Do not use more than 45 grams per week. Do not use with occlusive dressings. If a patient shows no clinical improvement after 1 week of treatment with clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream, the diagnosis should be reviewed. Do not use longer than 2 weeks. Treatment of tinea pedis: Gently massage a sufficient amount of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream into the affected skin areas twice a day for two weeks. If a patient shows no clinical improvement after 2 weeks of treatment with clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream, the diagnosis should be reviewed. Do not use longer than 4 weeks. Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream is for topical use only. It is not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. Avoid contact with eyes. Wash hands after each application. Directions wash affected area and dry thoroughly apply a thin layer over affected area twice daily (morning and night) or as directed by a doctor supervise children in the use of this product for athlete's foot, pay special attention to spaces between the toes, wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily for atlete's foot and ringworm, use daily for 4 weeks; for jock itch, use daily for 2 weeks if condition persists longer, ask a doctor this product is not effective on the scalp or nails Directions ▪ wash affected area and dry thoroughly ▪ apply a thin layer over affected area twice daily (morning and night) or as directed by a doctor ▪ supervise children in use of this product ▪ for athlete's foot, pay special attention to spaces between the toes, wear well fitting, ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily ▪ for athlete's foot and ringworm, use daily for 4 weeks; for jock itch, use daily for 2 weeks ▪ if condition persists longer, consult a doctor ▪ this product is not effective on scalp or nails DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Clotrimazole is administered only as a lozenge that must be slowly dissolved in the mouth. The recommended dose is one troche five times a day for fourteen consecutive days. Only limited data are available on the safety and effectiveness of the clotrimazole troche after prolonged administration; therefore, therapy should be limited to short term use, if possible. For prophylaxis to reduce the incidence of oropharyngeal candidiasis in patients immunocompromised by conditions that include chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or steroid therapy utilized in the treatment of leukemia, solid tumors, or renal transplantation, the recommended dose is one troche three times daily for the duration of chemotherapy or until steroids are reduced to maintenance levels. Directions before using this product read the enclosed educational brochure for complete directions and information adults and children 12 years of age and over: vaginal cream: insert one applicatorful of cream into the vagina at bedtime for 3 days in a row. Throw applicator away after use. external cream: use the same tube of cream if you have itching and irritation on the skin outside the vagina. Squeeze a small amount of cream onto your fingertip. Apply to itchy, irritated skin outside the vagina. Use 2 times daily for up to 7 days as needed. children under 12 years of age: ask a doctor Directions wash affected area and dry thoroughly apply a thin layer over affected area twice daily (morning and night) supervise children in the use of this product for athlete's foot, pay special attention to the spaces between the toes, wear well fitting, ventilated shoes and change socks at least once daily for athlete's foot and ringworm, use daily for 4 weeks; for jock itch, use daily for 2 weeks if condition persists longer, ask a doctor this product is not effective on the scalp or nails
Warnings: Warnings For External use only. WARNINGS Clotrimazole Topical Solution is not for ophthalmic use. Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor. When using this product avoid contact with eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation occurrs or if there is no improvement within 2 weeks for jock itch or within 4 weeks for athlete's foot and ringworm. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Do not use on children under 2 years of age except under the advice of a doctor. Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation occurs. there is no improvement within 4 weeks (for athlete’s foot or ringworm) or within 2 weeks (for jock itch). If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children. if swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. When using this product avoid contact with eyes Stop use and ask doctor if irritation occurs there is no improvement in 4 weeks (for athlete's foot or ringworm) or 2 weeks (for jock itch) Avoid contact with eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if ▪ irritation occurs ▪ there is no improvement within 4 weeks for athlete's foot and ringworm or 2 weeks for jock itch If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. WARNING Clotrimazole is not indicated for the treatment of systemic mycoses including systemic candidiasis. Warnings For vaginal use only Do not use if you have never had a vaginal yeast infection diagnosed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have vaginal itching and discomfort for the first time lower abdominal, back or shoulder pain, fever, chills, nausea, vomiting, or foul-smelling vaginal discharge. You may have a more serious condition. vaginal yeast infections often (such as once a month or 3 in 6 months). You could be pregnant or have a serious underlying medical cause for your symptoms, including diabetes or a weakened immune system. been exposed to the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) that causes AIDS When using this product do not use tampons, douches, spermicides, or other vaginal products. Condoms and diaphragms may be damaged and fail to prevent pregnancy or sexually transmitted diseases (STDs). do not have vaginal intercourse mild increase in vaginal burning, itching or irritation may occur if you do not get complete relief ask a doctor before using another product Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms do not get better in 3 days symptoms last more than 7 days you get a rash or hives, abdominal pain, fever, chills, nausea, vomiting, or a foul-smelling vaginal discharge If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Warnings For external use only When using this product avoid contact with eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs; • there is no improvement within 4 weeks (for athlete's foot or ringworm) or 2 weeks (for jock itch); If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical antifungal agents are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation. None. CONTRAINDICATIONS Clotrimazole is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any of its components.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Synergism or antagonism between clotrimazole and nystatin, or amphotericin B, or flucytosine against strains of C. albicans has not been reported.

=== BACLOFEN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Baclofen tablets, USP are useful for the alleviation of signs and symptoms of spasticity resulting from multiple sclerosis, particularly for the relief of flexor spasms and concomitant pain, clonus, and muscular rigidity. Patients should have reversible spasticity so that baclofen treatment will aid in restoring residual function. Baclofen tablets, USP may also be of some value in patients with spinal cord injuries and other spinal cord diseases. Baclofen tablets, USP are not indicated in the treatment of skeletal muscle spasm resulting from rheumatic disorders. The efficacy of baclofen in stroke, cerebral palsy, and Parkinson's disease has not been established and, therefore, it is not recommended for these conditions. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE GABLOFEN is indicated for use in the management of severe spasticity in adult and pediatric patients age 4 years and above. Patients should first respond to a screening dose of intrathecal baclofen prior to consideration for long term infusion via an implantable pump. For spasticity of spinal cord origin, chronic infusion of GABLOFEN via an implantable pump should be reserved for patients unresponsive to oral baclofen therapy, or those who experience intolerable CNS side effects at effective doses. Patients with spasticity due to traumatic brain injury should wait at least one year after the injury before consideration of long term intrathecal baclofen therapy. GABLOFEN is intended for use by the intrathecal route in single bolus test doses (via spinal catheter or lumbar puncture) and, for chronic use, only with the Medtronic SynchroMed ® Programmable Pump or other pumps labeled for intrathecal administration of GABLOFEN [see Clinical Studies (14)] . Prior to implantation of a device for chronic intrathecal infusion of GABLOFEN, patients must show a response to GABLOFEN in a screening trial [see Dosage and Administration (2.2)] . GABLOFEN is a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) ergic agonist indicated for use in the management of severe spasticity of cerebral or spinal origin in adult and pediatric patients age 4 years and above. ( 1 ) GABLOFEN should be reserved for patients unresponsive to oral baclofen therapy, or those who experience intolerable central nervous system side effects at effective doses. ( 1 ) Patients should first respond to a screening dose of intrathecal baclofen prior to consideration for long term infusion via an implantable pump. ( 1 ) Spasticity due to traumatic brain injury: wait at least one year after injury before considering GABLOFEN therapy. ( 1 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Baclofen tablets are useful for the alleviation of signs and symptoms of spasticity resulting from multiple sclerosis, particularly for the relief of flexor spasms and concomitant pain, clonus, and muscular rigidity. Baclofen tablets may also be of some value in patients with spinal cord injuries and other spinal cord diseases. Baclofen tablets are not indicated in the treatment of skeletal muscle spasm resulting from rheumatic disorders. Baclofen tablets, USP are useful for the alleviation of signs and symptoms of spasticity resulting from multiple sclerosis, particularly for the relief of flexor spasms and concomitant pain, clonus, and muscular rigidity. The efficacy of baclofen in stroke, cerebral palsy, and Parkinson’s disease has not been established and, therefore, it is not recommended for these conditions. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Baclofen injection (intrathecal) is indicated for use in the management of severe spasticity. For spasticity of spinal cord origin, chronic infusion of baclofen injection (intrathecal) via an implantable pump should be reserved for patients unresponsive to oral baclofen therapy, or those who experience intolerable CNS side effects at effective doses. Baclofen injection (intrathecal) is intended for use by the intrathecal route in single bolus test doses (via spinal catheter or lumbar puncture) and, for chronic use, only in implantable pumps approved by the FDA specifically for the administration of baclofen injection (intrathecal) into the intrathecal space. Spasticity of Spinal Cord Origin: Evidence supporting the efficacy of baclofen injection (intrathecal) was obtained in randomized, controlled investigations that compared the effects of either a single intrathecal dose or a three day intrathecal infusion of baclofen injection (intrathecal) to placebo in patients with severe spasticity and spasms due to either spinal cord trauma or multiple sclerosis. Baclofen injection (intrathecal) was superior to placebo on both principal outcome measures employed: change from baseline in the Ashworth rating of spasticity and the frequency of spasms. Spasticity of Cerebral Origin: The efficacy of baclofen injection (intrathecal) was investigated in three controlled clinical trials; two enrolled patients with cerebral palsy and one enrolled patients with spasticity due to previous brain injury. The first study, a randomized controlled cross-over trial of 51 patients with cerebral palsy, provided strong, statistically significant results; baclofen injection (intrathecal) was superior to placebo in reducing spasticity as measured by the Ashworth Scale. A second cross-over study was conducted in 11 patients with spasticity arising from brain injury. Despite the small sample size, the study yielded a nearly significant test statistic (p= 0.066) and provided directionally favorable results. The last study, however, did not provide data that could be reliably analyzed. Baclofen injection (intrathecal) therapy may be considered an alternative to destructive neurosurgical procedures. Prior to implantation of a device for chronic intrathecal infusion of baclofen injection (intrathecal), patients must show a response to baclofen injection (intrathecal) in a screening trial (see Dosage and Administration ).
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The determination of optimal dosage requires individual titration. Start therapy at a low dosage and increase gradually until optimum effect is achieved (usually between 40-80 mg daily). The following dosage titration schedule is suggested: 5 mg t.i.d. for 3 days 10 mg t.i.d. for 3 days 15 mg t.i.d. for 3 days 20 mg t.i.d. for 3 days Thereafter additional increases may be necessary but the total daily dose should not exceed a maximum of 80 mg daily (20 mg q.i.d.). The lowest dose compatible with an optimal response is recommended. If benefits are not evident after a reasonable trial period, patients should be slowly withdrawn from the drug (See WARNINGS , Abrupt Drug Withdrawal ). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2.1 Use Only in Medtronic SynchroMed ® Programmable Pump (or other pumps labeled for intrathecal administration of GABLOFEN) GABLOFEN is approved only for use with the Medtronic SynchroMed ® Programmable Pump or other pumps labeled for intrathecal administration of GABLOFEN. Refer to the manufacturer’s manual for specific instructions and precautions for programming the pump and/or refilling the reservoir. It is important to select the appropriate refill kit for the pump used to administer GABLOFEN. GABLOFEN is not to be compounded with other medications. 2.2 Screening Phase Prior to pump implantation and initiation of chronic infusion of GABLOFEN, patients must demonstrate a positive clinical response to a GABLOFEN bolus dose administered intrathecally in a screening trial. The screening trial employs GABLOFEN at a concentration of 50 mcg/mL. A 1 mL syringe (50 mcg/mL) is available for use in the screening trial. The screening procedure is as follows. An initial bolus containing 50 micrograms in a volume of 1 milliliter is administered into the intrathecal space by barbotage over a period of not less than one minute. The patient is observed over the ensuing 4 to 8 hours. A positive response consists of a significant decrease in muscle tone and/or frequency and/or severity of spasms. If the initial response is less than desired, a second bolus injection may be administered 24 hours after the first. The second screening bolus dose consists of 75 micrograms in 1.5 milliliters. Again, the patient should be observed for an interval of 4 to 8 hours. If the response is still inadequate, a final bolus screening dose of 100 micrograms in 2 milliliters may be administered 24 hours later. Pediatric Patients The starting screening dose for pediatric patients is the same as in adult patients, i.e., 50 mcg. However, for very small patients, a screening dose of 25 mcg may be tried first. Patients who do not respond to a 100 mcg intrathecal bolus should not be considered candidates for an implanted pump for chronic infusion. 2.3 Preparation Information Screening Use the 1 mL screening syringe only (50 mcg/mL) for bolus injection into the subarachnoid space. For a 50 mcg bolus dose, use 1 mL of the screening syringe. Use 1.5 mL of 50 mcg/mL baclofen injection for a 75 mcg bolus dose. For the maximum screening dose of 100 mcg, use 2 mL of 50 mcg/mL baclofen injection (2 screening syringes). Maintenance The specific concentration that should be used depends upon the total daily dose required as well as the delivery rate of the pump. For patients who require concentrations other than 500 mcg/mL, 1,000 mcg/mL, or 2,000 mcg/mL, GABLOFEN must be diluted with sterile preservative free Sodium Chloride for Injection, USP. 2.4 Administration Information Parenteral drug products should be inspected for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. The external surface of GABLOFEN prefilled syringes (all strengths, including the 50 mcg/mL strength) are non-sterile. The use of GABLOFEN prefilled syringe in an aseptic setting (i.e., operating room) to fill sterile intrathecal pumps prior to implantation in patients is not recommended. For outpatient use, modify aseptic procedures to avoid contamination of sterile surfaces through contact with the non-sterile exterior of the GABLOFEN prefilled syringe when filling the pump reservoir [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Delivery Regimen GABLOFEN is most often administered in a continuous infusion mode immediately following implant. For those patients implanted with programmable pumps who have achieved relatively satisfactory control on continuous infusion, further benefit may be attained using more complex schedules of GABLOFEN delivery. For example, patients who have increased spasms at night may require a 20% increase in their hourly infusion rate. Changes in flow rate should be programmed to start two hours before the time of desired clinical effect. 2.5 Dose Titration Post-Implant Dose Titration Period To determine the initial total daily dose of GABLOFEN following implant, the screening dose that gave a positive effect should be doubled and administered over a 24-hour period, unless the efficacy of the bolus dose was maintained for more than 8 hours, in which case the starting daily dose should be the screening dose delivered over a 24-hour period. No dose increases should be given in the first 24 hours (i.e., until the steady state is achieved). In most patients, it will be necessary to increase the dose gradually over time to maintain effectiveness; a sudden requirement for substantial dose escalation typically indicates a catheter complication (i.e., catheter kink or dislodgement). Adult Patients with Spasticity of Spinal Cord Origin After the first 24 hours, for adult patients, the daily dosage should be increased slowly by 10% to 30% increments and only once every 24 hours, until the desired clinical effect is achieved. Adult Patients with Spasticity of Cerebral Origin After the first 24 hours, the daily dose should be increased slowly by 5% to 15% only once every 24 hours, until the desired clinical effect is achieved. Pediatric Patients After the first 24 hours, the daily dose should be increased slowly by 5% to 15% only once every 24 hours, until the desired clinical effect is achieved. If there is not a substantive clinical response to increases in the daily dose, check for proper pump function and catheter patency. Patients must be monitored closely in a fully equipped and staffed environment during the screening phase and dose-titration period immediately following implant. Resuscitative equipment should be immediately available for use in case of life-threatening or intolerable side effects. Additional Considerations Pertaining to Dosage Adjustment Careful dose titration of GABLOFEN is needed when spasticity is necessary to sustain upright posture and balance in locomotion or whenever spasticity is used to obtain optimal function and care. It may be important to titrate the dose to maintain some degree of muscle tone and allow occasional spasms to: 1) help support circulatory function, 2) possibly prevent the formation of deep vein thrombosis, 3) optimize activities of daily living and ease of care. Except in overdose related emergencies, the dose of GABLOFEN should ordinarily be reduced slowly if the drug is discontinued for any reason. An attempt should be made to discontinue concomitant oral antispasticity medication to avoid possible overdose or adverse drug interactions, either prior to screening or following implant and initiation of chronic GABLOFEN infusion. Reduction and discontinuation of oral anti-spasmotics should be done slowly and with careful monitoring by the physician. Abrupt reduction or discontinuation of concomitant antispastics should be avoided. 2.6 Maintenance Therapy Spasticity of Spinal Cord Origin Patients The clinical goal is to maintain muscle tone as close to normal as possible, and to minimize the frequency and severity of spasms to the extent possible, without inducing intolerable side effects. Very often, the maintenance dose needs to be adjusted during the first few months of therapy while patients adjust to changes in lifestyle due to the alleviation of spasticity. During periodic refills of the pump, the daily dose may be increased by 10% to 40%, but no more than 40%, to maintain adequate symptom control. The daily dose may be reduced by 10% to 20% if patients experience side effects. Most patients require gradual increases in dose over time to maintain optimal response during chronic therapy. A sudden large requirement for dose escalation suggests a catheter complication (i.e., catheter kink or dislodgement). Maintenance dosage for long term continuous infusion of intrathecal baclofen has ranged from 12 mcg/day to 2,003 mcg/day, with most patients adequately maintained on 300 micrograms to 800 micrograms per day. There is limited experience with daily doses greater than 1,000 mcg/day. Determination of the optimal GABLOFEN dose requires individual titration. The lowest dose with an optimal response should be used. Spasticity of Cerebral Origin Patients The clinical goal is to maintain muscle tone as close to normal as possible and to minimize the frequency and severity of spasms to the extent possible, without inducing intolerable side effects, or to titrate the dose to the desired degree of muscle tone for optimal functions. Very often the maintenance dose needs to be adjusted during the first few months of therapy while patients adjust to changes in lifestyle due to the alleviation of spasticity. During periodic refills of the pump, the daily dose may be increased by 5% to 20%, but no more than 20%, to maintain adequate symptom control. Many patients require gradual increases in dose over time to maintain optimal response during chronic therapy. Maintenance dosage for long term continuous infusion of intrathecal baclofen has ranged from 22 mcg/day to 1,400 mcg/day, with most patients adequately maintained on 90 micrograms to 703 micrograms per day. In clinical trials, only 3 of 150 patients required daily doses greater than 1,000 mcg/day. Pediatric Patients Use same dosing recommendations for patients with spasticity of cerebral origin. Pediatric patients under 12 years seemed to require a lower daily dose in clinical trials. Average daily dose for patients under 12 years was 274 mcg/day, with a range of 24 mcg/day to 1,199 mcg/day. Dosage requirement for pediatric patients over 12 years does not seem to be different from that of adult patients. Potential Need for Dose Adjustments in Chronic Use During long term treatment, approximately 5% (28/627) of patients become refractory to increasing doses. There is not sufficient experience to make firm recommendations for tolerance treatment; however, this “tolerance” has been treated on occasion, in hospital, by a “drug holiday” consisting of the gradual reduction of intrathecal baclofen over a 2 to 4 week period and switching to alternative methods of spasticity management. After the “drug holiday,” intrathecal baclofen may be restarted at the initial continuous infusion dose. GABLOFEN is intended for use by the intrathecal route in single bolus test doses (via spinal catheter or lumbar puncture) and, for chronic use in the Medtronic SynchroMed ® Programmable Pump or other pumps labeled for intrathecal administration of GABLOFEN; Refer to the pump manufacturer's manual and follow the specific instructions and precautions for programming the pump and/or refilling the reservoir. (2.1) Screening : Patients who do not respond to a 100 mcg intrathecal bolus should not be considered for an implanted pump for chronic infusion. (2.2) Dose Titration : Spasticity may be necessary to sustain upright posture and balance in locomotion or may be useful to obtain optimal function and care. (2.5) Maintenance Therapy : Titrate patients individually; Lowest dose with an optimal response should be used, generally 300 mcg/day to 800 mcg/day for spasticity of spinal cord origin and 90 mcg/day to 700 mcg/day for spasticity of cerebral origin; Titrate GABLOFEN to maintain some degree of muscle tone and allow occasional spasms. (2.6) Start therapy at a low dosage and increase gradually until optimum effect is achieved (usually between 40 to 80 mg daily). The determination of optimal dosage requires individual titration. If benefits are not evident after a reasonable trial period, patients should be slowly withdrawn from the drug (See WARNINGS, Abrupt Drug Withdrawal). If benefits are not evident after a reasonable trial period, patients should be slowly withdrawn from the drug (see WARNINGS, Abrupt Drug Withdrawal ). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Refer to the manufacturer's manual for the implantable pump approved for intrathecal infusion for specific instructions and precautions for programming the pump and/or refilling the reservoir. There are various pumps with varying reservoir volumes and there are various refill kits available. It is important to be familiar with all of these products in order to select the appropriate refill kit for the particular pump in use. Screening Phase: Prior to pump implantation and initiation of chronic infusion of baclofen injection (intrathecal), patients must demonstrate a positive clinical response to a baclofen injection (intrathecal) bolus dose administered intrathecally in a screening trial. The screening trial employs baclofen injection (intrathecal) at a concentration of 50 mcg per mL. A 1 mL ampule (50 mcg per mL) is available for use in the screening trial. Pediatric Patients: The starting screening dose for pediatric patients is the same as in adult patients, i.e., 50 mcg. Patients who do not respond to a 100 mcg intrathecal bolus should not be considered candidates for an implanted pump for chronic infusion . Post-Implant Dose Titration Period: To determine the initial total daily dose of baclofen injection (intrathecal) following implant, the screening dose that gave a positive effect should be doubled and administered over a 24-hour period, unless the efficacy of the bolus dose was maintained for more than 8 hours, in which case the starting daily dose should be the screening dose delivered over a 24-hour period. Adult Patients with Spasticity of Spinal Cord Origin: After the first 24 hours, for adult patients, the daily dosage should be increased slowly by 10 to 30% increments and only once every 24 hours, until the desired clinical effect is achieved. Adult Patients with Spasticity of Cerebral Origin: After the first 24 hours, the daily dose should be increased slowly by 5 to 15% only once every 24 hours, until the desired clinical effect is achieved. Pediatric Patients: After the first 24 hours, the daily dose should be increased slowly by 5 to 15% only once every 24 hours, until the desired clinical effect is achieved. Maintenance Therapy: Spasticity of Spinal Cord Origin Patients: The clinical goal is to maintain muscle tone as close to normal as possible, and to minimize the frequency and severity of spasms to the extent possible, without inducing intolerable side effects. Very often, the maintenance dose needs to be adjusted during the first few months of therapy while patients adjust to changes in life style due to the alleviation of spasticity. During periodic refills of the pump, the daily dose may be increased by 10 to 40%, but no more than 40%, to maintain adequate symptom control. The daily dose may be reduced by 10 to 20% if patients experience side effects. Maintenance dosage for long term continuous infusion of baclofen injection (intrathecal) has ranged from 12 mcg/day to 2,003 mcg/day, with most patients adequately maintained on 300 micrograms to 800 micrograms per day. Determination of the optimal baclofen injection (intrathecal) dose requires individual titration. Spasticity of Cerebral Origin Patients: The clinical goal is to maintain muscle tone as close to normal as possible and to minimize the frequency and severity of spasms to the extent possible, without inducing intolerable side effects, or to titrate the dose to the desired degree of muscle tone for optimal functions. Very often the maintenance dose needs to be adjusted during the first few months of therapy while patients adjust to changes in life style due to the alleviation of spasticity. During periodic refills of the pump, the daily dose may be increased by 5 to 20%, but no more than 20%, to maintain adequate symptom control. A sudden large requirement for dose escalation suggests a catheter complication (i.e., catheter kink or dislodgement) . Maintenance dosage for long term continuous infusion of baclofen injection (intrathecal) has ranged from 22 mcg/day to 1,400 mcg/day, with most patients adequately maintained on 90 micrograms to 703 micrograms per day. Pediatric Patients: Use same dosing recommendations for patients with spasticity of cerebral origin. Average daily dose for patients under 12 years was 274 mcg/day, with a range of 24 to 1,199 mcg/day. Potential need for dose adjustments in chronic use: During long term treatment, approximately 5% (28/627) of patients become refractory to increasing doses. There is not sufficient experience to make firm recommendations for tolerance treatment; however, this “tolerance” has been treated on occasion, in hospital, by a “drug holiday” consisting of the gradual reduction of baclofen injection (intrathecal) over a 2 to 4 week period and switching to alternative methods of spasticity management. After the “drug holiday,” baclofen injection (intrathecal) may be restarted at the initial continuous infusion dose. Stability Parenteral drug products should be inspected for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Delivery Specifications The specific concentration that should be used depends upon the total daily dose required as well as the delivery rate of the pump. Baclofen injection (intrathecal) may require dilution when used with certain implantable pumps. Please consult manufacturer's manual for specific recommendations. Preparation Instruction: Screening Use the 1 mL screening ampule only (50 mcg per mL) for bolus injection into the subarachnoid space. For a 50 mcg bolus dose, use 1 mL of the screening ampule. Use 1.5 mL of 50 mcg per mL baclofen injection (intrathecal) for a 75 mcg bolus dose. For the maximum screening dose of 100 mcg, use 2 mL of 50 mcg per mL baclofen injection (intrathecal) (2 screening ampules). Maintenance For patients who require concentrations other than 500 mcg per mL or 2,000 mcg per mL, baclofen injection (intrathecal) must be diluted. Baclofen injection (intrathecal) must be diluted with sterile preservative free Sodium Chloride for Injection, U.S.P. Delivery Regimen: Baclofen injection (intrathecal) is most often administered in a continuous infusion mode immediately following implant. For those patients implanted with programmable pumps who have achieved relatively satisfactory control on continuous infusion, further benefit may be attained using more complex schedules of baclofen injection (intrathecal) delivery. Start therapy at a low dosage and increase gradually until optimum effect is achieved (usually between 40 mg to 80 mg daily). for 3 days Thereafter additional increases may be necessary, but the total daily dose should not exceed a maximum of 80 mg daily (20 mg q.i.d.).
Warnings: WARNINGS a. Neonatal Withdrawal Symptoms: Withdrawal symptoms have been reported starting hours to days after delivery in neonates whose mothers were treated with oral baclofen throughout pregnancy. The symptoms of withdrawal in these infants have included increased muscle tone, tremor, jitteriness, and seizure. If the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus and oral baclofen is continued during pregnancy, gradua ly reduce the dose and discontinue baclofen before delivery. If slow withdrawal is not feasible, advise the parents or caregivers of the potential for neonatal withdrawal. b. Abrupt Drug Withdrawal: Hallucinations and seizures have occurred on abrupt withdrawal of baclofen. Therefore, except for serious adverse reactions, the dose should be reduced slowly when the drug is discontinued. c. Impaired Renal Function: Because baclofen is primarily excreted unchanged through the kidneys, it should be given with caution, and it may be necessary to reduce the dosage. d. Stroke: Baclofen has not significantly benefited patients with stroke. These patients have also shown poor tolerability to the drug. e. Pregnancy: Baclofen has been shown to increase the incidence of omphaloceles (ventral hernias) in fetuses of rats given approximately 13 times the maximum dose recommended for human use, at a dose which caused significant reductions in food intake and weight gain in dams. This abnormality was not seen in mice or rabbits. There was also an increased incidence of incomplete sternebral ossification in fetuses of rats given approximately 13 times the maximum recommended human dose, and an increased incidence of unossified phalangeal nuclei of forelimbs and hindlimbs in fetuses of rabbits given approximately 7 times the maximum recommended human dose. In mice, no teratogenic effects were observed, although reductions in mean fetal weight with consequent delays in skeletal ossification were present when dams were given 17 and 34 times the human daily dose. There are no studies in pregnant women. Baclofen should be used during pregnancy only if the benefit clearly justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Neonatal Withdrawal Symptoms : Withdrawal symptoms have been reported starting hours to days after delivery in neonates whose mothers were treated with oral baclofen throughout pregnancy. If the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus and oral baclofen is continued during pregnancy, gradually reduce the dose and discontinue baclofen before delivery. Abrupt Drug Withdrawal : Hallucinations and seizures have occurred on abrupt withdrawal of baclofen. Impaired Renal Function : Because baclofen is primarily excreted unchanged through the kidneys, it should be given with caution, and it may be necessary to reduce the dosage. Stroke : Baclofen has not significantly benefited patients with stroke. Pregnancy : Baclofen has been shown to increase the incidence of omphaloceles (ventral hernias) in fetuses of rats given approximately 13 times the maximum dose recommended for human use, at a dose which caused significant reductions in food intake and weight gain in dams. a. WARNINGS Baclofen injection (intrathecal) is for use in single bolus intrathecal injections (via a catheter placed in the lumbar intrathecal space or injection by lumbar puncture) and in implantable pumps approved by the FDA specifically for the intrathecal administration of baclofen. Because of the possibility of potentially life-threatening CNS depression, cardiovascular collapse, and/or respiratory failure, physicians must be adequately trained and educated in chronic intrathecal infusion therapy. The pump system should not be implanted until the patient's response to bolus baclofen injection (intrathecal) is adequately evaluated. Evaluation (consisting of a screening procedure: see Dosage and Administration) requires that baclofen injection (intrathecal) be administered into the intrathecal space via a catheter or lumbar puncture. Because of the risks associated with the screening procedure and the adjustment of dosage following pump implantation, these phases must be conducted in a medically supervised and adequately equipped environment following the instructions outlined in the Dosage and Administration section. Resuscitative equipment should be available. Following surgical implantation of the pump, particularly during the initial phases of pump use, the patient should be monitored closely until it is certain that the patient's response to the infusion is acceptable and reasonably stable. On each occasion that the dosing rate of the pump and/or the concentration of baclofen injection (intrathecal) in the reservoir is adjusted, close medical monitoring is required until it is certain that the patient's response to the infusion is acceptable and reasonably stable. It is mandatory that the patient, all patient caregivers, and the physicians responsible for the patient receive adequate information regarding the risks of this mode of treatment. All medical personnel and caregivers should be instructed in 1) the signs and symptoms of overdose, 2) procedures to be followed in the event of overdose and 3) proper home care of the pump and insertion site. Overdose: Signs of overdose may appear suddenly or insidiously. Acute massive overdose may present as coma. Less sudden and/or less severe forms of overdose may present with signs of drowsiness, lightheadedness, dizziness, somnolence, respiratory depression, seizures, rostral progression of hypotonia and loss of consciousness progressing to coma. Should overdose appear likely, the patient should be taken immediately to a hospital for assessment and emptying of the pump reservoir. In cases reported to date, overdose has generally been related to pump malfunction, inadvertent subcutaneous injection, or dosing error. (See Drug Overdose Symptoms and Treatment.) Extreme caution must be used when filling an FDA approved implantable pump. Such pumps should only be refilled through the reservoir refill septum. Inadvertent injection into the subcutaneous tissue can occur if the reservoir refill septum is not properly accessed. Some pumps are also equipped with a catheter access port that allows direct access to the intrathecal catheter. Direct injection into this catheter access port or inadvertent injection into the subcutaneous tissue may cause a life-threatening overdose. Withdrawal: Abrupt withdrawal of intrathecal baclofen, regardless of the cause, has resulted in sequelae that included high fever, altered mental status, exaggerated rebound spasticity and muscle rigidity that in rare cases progressed to rhabdomyolysis, multiple organ-system failure, and death. In the first 9 years of post-marketing experience, 27 cases of withdrawal temporally related to the cessation of baclofen therapy were reported; six patients died. In most cases, symptoms of withdrawal appeared within hours to a few days following interruption of baclofen therapy. Common reasons for abrupt interruption of intrathecal baclofen therapy included malfunction of the catheter (especially disconnection), low volume in the pump reservoir, and end of pump battery life; human error may have played a causal or contributing role in some cases. Cases of intrathecal mass at the tip of the implanted catheter leading to withdrawal symptoms have also been reported, most of them involving pharmacy compounded analgesic admixtures (see PRECAUTIONS ). Prevention of abrupt discontinuation of intrathecal baclofen requires careful attention to programming and monitoring of the infusion system, refill scheduling and procedures, and pump alarms. Patients and caregivers should be advised of the importance of keeping scheduled refill visits and should be educated on the early symptoms of baclofen withdrawal. All patients receiving intrathecal baclofen therapy are potentially at risk for withdrawal. Early symptoms of baclofen withdrawal may include return of baseline spasticity, pruritus, hypotension, and paresthesias. Priapism may develop or recur if treatment with intrathecal baclofen is interrupted. Some clinical characteristics of the advanced intrathecal baclofen withdrawal syndrome may resemble autonomic dysreflexia, infection (sepsis), malignant hyperthermia, neuroleptic-malignant syndrome, or other conditions associated with a hypermetabolic state or widespread rhabdomyolysis. Rapid, accurate diagnosis and treatment in an emergency-room or intensive-care setting are important in order to prevent the potentially life-threatening central nervous system and systemic effects of intrathecal baclofen withdrawal. The suggested treatment for intrathecal baclofen withdrawal is the restoration of intrathecal baclofen at or near the same dosage as before therapy was interrupted. However, if restoration of intrathecal delivery is delayed, treatment with GABA-ergic agonist drugs such as oral or enteral baclofen, or oral, enteral, or intravenous benzodiazepines may prevent potentially fatal sequelae. Oral or enteral baclofen alone should not be relied upon to halt the progression of intrathecal baclofen withdrawal. Seizures have been reported during overdose and with withdrawal from baclofen injection (intrathecal) as well as in patients maintained on therapeutic doses of baclofen injection (intrathecal). Fatalities: Spasticity of Spinal Cord Origin: There were 16 deaths reported among the 576 U.S. patients treated with baclofen injection (intrathecal) in pre- and post- marketing studies evaluated as of December 1992. Because these patients were treated under uncontrolled clinical settings, it is impossible to determine definitively what role, if any, baclofen injection (intrathecal) played in their deaths. As a group, the patients who died were relatively young (mean age was 47 with a range from 25 to 63), but the majority suffered from severe spasticity of many years duration, were nonambulatory, had various medical complications such as pneumonia, urinary tract infections, and decubiti, and/or had received multiple concomitant medications. A case-by-case review of the clinical course of the 16 patients who died failed to reveal any unique signs, symptoms, or laboratory results that would suggest that treatment with baclofen injection (intrathecal) caused their deaths. Two patients, however, did suffer sudden and unexpected death within 2 weeks of pump implantation and one patient died unexpectedly after screening. One patient, a 44 year-old male with MS, died in hospital on the second day following pump implantation. An autopsy demonstrated severe fibrosis of the coronary conduction system. A second patient, a 52 year-old woman with MS and a history of an inferior wall myocardial infarction, was found dead in bed 12 days after pump implantation, 2 hours after having had documented normal vital signs. An autopsy revealed pulmonary congestion and bilateral pleural effusions. It is impossible to determine whether baclofen injection (intrathecal) contributed to these deaths. The third patient underwent three baclofen screening trials. His medical history included SCI, aspiration pneumonia, septic shock, disseminated intravascular coagulopathy, severe metabolic acidosis, hepatic toxicity, and status epilepticus. Twelve days after screening (he was not implanted), he again experienced status epilepticus with subsequent significant neurological deterioration. Based upon prior instruction, extraordinary resuscitative measures were not pursued and the patient died. Spasticity of Cerebral Origin: There were three deaths occurring among the 211 patients treated with baclofen injection (intrathecal) in pre- marketing studies as of March 1996. These deaths were not attributed to the therapy. Overinfusion: Delivery of more drug volume than the programmed rate (overinfusion) can result in unexpected overdose, or withdrawal caused by early emptying of the pump reservoir. Refer to the manufacturer's pump manual and instructions for refilling the reservoir.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to baclofen. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS GABLOFEN is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to baclofen. Do not use GABLOFEN for intravenous, intramuscular, subcutaneous or epidural administration. · Hypersensitivity to baclofen (4) · Do not use GABLOFEN for intravenous, intramuscular, subcutaneous or epidural administration. (4) Hypersensitivity to baclofen. Baclofen injection (intrathecal) is not recommended for intravenous, intramuscular, subcutaneous or epidural administration.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS There is inadequate systematic experience with the use of intrathecal baclofen in combination with other medications to predict specific drug-drug interactions. Interactions attributed to the combined use of GABLOFEN and epidural morphine include hypotension and dyspnea. Combined use with morphine: hypotension and dyspnea ( 7 ) DRUG INTERACTIONS There is inadequate systematic experience with the use of baclofen injection (intrathecal) in combination with other medications to predict specific drug-drug interactions. Interactions attributed to the combined use of baclofen injection (intrathecal) and epidural morphine include hypotension and dyspnea.

=== TOLNAFTATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Antifungal Purpose Antifungal Purpose Anti-Fungal ​Purpose Antifungal
Indications: For effective treatment of most athlete's foot and ringworm. Relieves itching, scaling, cracking, burning, redness, soreness, irritation, and discomfort. Helps prevent most athlete's foot (dermatophytosis) with daily use. Uses cures most athlete's foot (tinea pedis), ringworm (tinea corporis) and jock itch (tinea cruris) can prevent recurrence of most athlete's foot relieves symptoms of athlete's foot, including itching, burning, crcaking, and chafing associated with jock itch Uses proven clinically effective in the treatment of most athlete's foot (tinea pedis) and ringworm (tinea corporis) prevent recurrence of most athlete's foot with daily use for effective relief of itching, cracking and burning Uses cures mose athlete's foot (tinea pedis) and ringworm (tinea corporis) ​prevents recurrence of athlete's foot with daily use relieves itching, burning and cracking Uses cures most jock itch (tinea cruris) relieves itching, burning, and chafing associated with jock itch INDICATIONS AND USAGE: Mycozyl AL™ is effective in the treatment of most skin infections such as athlete's foot (tinea pedis) and ringworm (tinea corporis). Mycozyl AL™ has been designed to reach skin areas around and under the nails while it relives burning, cracking, scaling and discomfort which accompany these conditions. Mycozyl AL™ is an antifungal that works by preventing and eliminating the growth of fungus on fingers, toes and around the nails. It eliminates and helps stop the spread of fungal infections on cuticles around nail edges and under the nail tips where reachable with applicator brush. Mycozyl AL™ cures and prevents fungal infections from coming back with daily use. Uses: For effective treatment of most athlete's foot and ringworm. Relieves: Itching Soreness Scaling Burning Cracking Irritation Redness Prevents the recurrence of most athlete's foot (dermatophytosis) with daily use. Uses ● proven clinically effective in the treatment of most athlete's foot (tinea pedis), and ringworm (tinea corporis) ● helps prevent most athlete's foot with daily use ● for effective relief of itching, burning and cracking. Uses cures most jock itch (tinea cruris) for effective relief of itching, chafing and burning Uses For the treament of athlete's foot (tinea pedis) and ring worm (tinea corporis). For effective relief of itching, scaling, cracking, burning, and redness.
Dosage: For athlete's foot and ringworm: use daily for 4 weeks. Clean the affected area and dry thoroughly. Apply a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily (morning and night) or as directed by a doctor. Supervise children in the use of this product. This product is not effective for the treatment of ringworm of the scalp or nails. For athlete's foot: pay special attention to spaces between the toes, wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes, and change shoes and socks at least once daily. To prevent athlete's foot, apply once or twice daily (morning and/or night). Apply to skin around the nail and cuticle. Directions wash affected area and dry thoroughly shake can well and spray a thin layer over affected area twice daily (morning and night) or as directed by a doctor supervise children in the use of this product to prevent athlete's foot, apply once or twice daily (morning and/or night) for athlete's foot: pay special attention to spaces between the toes, wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily use daily for 4 weeks for athlete's foot and ringworm; use daily for 2 weeks for jock itch if conditions persist, consult a doctor this product is not effective on the scalp or nails if nozzle clogs, clean with a pin Directions wash affected area and dry thoroughly shake can well and spray a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily (morning and night) or as directed by a doctor supervise children in the use of this product for athlete's foot: pay special attention to spaces between the toes; wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes, and change shoes and socks at least once daily for athlete's foot and ringworm, use daily for 4 weeks if condition persists, consult a doctor to prevent athlete's foot: wash the feet and dry thoroughly; spray a thin layer of the product to the feet once or twice daily (morning and/or night) this product is not effective on the scalp or nails if nozzle clogs, clean with a pin Directions wash affected area and dry thoroughly shake can well and spray a thin layer over affected area twice daily (morning and night) or as directed by a doctor supervise children in the use of this product for athlete's foot: pay special attention to spaces between the toes; wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes, and change shoes and socks at least once daily use daily for 4 weeks if conditions persists, consult a doctor this product is not effective on the scalp or nails Directions wash affected area and dry thoroughly shake can well and spray a thin layer over affected area twice daily (morning and night) supervise children in the use of this product use daily for 2 weeks; if conditions persist, consult a doctor if nozzle clogs, clean with a pin DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: • Clean the affected area with soap and warm water and dry thoroughly • Apply a thin layer of product over affected area twice daily (morning and night) paying special attention to the edges of the nail, cuticles and skin around the nails or as directed by a doctor • The brush applicator allows for easy application on skin around the nail and cuticle areas. • For athlete's foot, pay special attention to spaces between the toes, wear well-fitting,ventilated shoes, and change shoes and socks at least once daily. • For athlete's foot and ringworm, use daily for 4 weeks. • Supervise children in the use of this product. Use under the direction of a licensed medical practitioner. Call your doctor about side effects. To report side effects, call PureTek Corporation at 1-877-921-7873 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 1 Directions For treatment of athlete's foot and ringworm Clean the affected area and dry thoroughly. For athlete's foot: Pay special attention to spaces between the toes; wear well fitting, ventilated shoes, and change shoes and socks at least once daily. For athlete's foot and ringworm, use daily for 4 weeks. If condition persists longer, consult a doctor. This product is not effective on scalp or nail. To prevent athlete's foot: Clean the feet and dry thoroughly. Apply a thin layer of the product to the feet once or twice daily (morning and/or night) Supervise children in the use of this product. Pay special attention to spaces between the toes; wear well fitting, ventilated shoes, and change shoes and socks at least once daily. Directions ● wash affected area and dry thoroughly ● apply a thin layer over affected area twice daily (morning and night) ● supervise children in the use of this product ● for athlete’s foot: pay special attention to spaces between the toes, wear well-fitting ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily. ● use daily for 4 weeks; if conditions persists longer, ask a doctor. ● to prevent athlete's foot, apply once or twice daily (morning and/or night) ● this product is not effective on the scalp or nails. Directions wash affected area and dry thoroughly apply a thin layer over affected area twice daily (morning and night) supervise children in the use of this product use daily for 2 weeks; if condition persists longer, ask a doctor this product is not effective on the scalp or nails ​Directions wash the affected area and dry thoroughly. apply a thin layer of the product over the affected area twice daily (morning and night) or as directed by a doctor. for athlete's foot: pay special attention to spaces between toes; wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes, and change shoes and socks at least once daily. this product is not effective on the scalp or nails.
Warnings: For external use only. Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor. When using this product avoid contact with eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if: irritation occurs, there is no improvement within 4 weeks (for athlete's foot and ringworm). Warnings For external use only. Flammable: Do not use while smoking or flame. Do not puncture or incinerate. Contents under pressure. Do not store at temperature above 120ºF. Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling contents can be harmful or fatal. When using this product avoid contact with the eyes or mouth use only as directed Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation occurs no improvement within 2 weeks Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Flammable: Contents under pressue. Avoid spraying in eyes. Do not use or store near heat or open flame. Do not puncture or incinerate container. Do not store at temperature above 120F. Use only as directed. Intentional misuse by dilberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal. When using this product avoid contact with the eyes or mouth use only as directed Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation occurs no improvement within 4 weeks for athlete's foot and ringworm Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor. Keep out of reach od children. If swallowed, get medical hel or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Flammable: Keep away from heat, sparks and open flame. Do not store at temperature above 120°F. Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal. When using this product avoid contact with the eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation occurs if there is no improvement within 4 weeks Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor. Stop use and ask a doctor if When using for athlete's foot or ringworm: If irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 4 weeks, discontinue use and consult a doctor. When using for the prevention of athlete's foot: If irritation occurs,discontinue use and consult a doctor. If pregnant or breastfeeding ask a health professional before use. When using this product avoid contact with the eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if ● irritation occurs ● there is no improvement within 4 weeks Do not use on children under 2 years of age except under the advice and supervision of a doctor. Warnings For external use only Do not use on children under 2 years of age except under the advice and supervision of a doctor. When using this product avoid contact with the eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation occurs there is no improvement within 2 weeks Keep out of reach of children. Stop use and consult a doctor if irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 4 weeks. If swallowed, get medical help, or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Flammable Keep away from fire or flame.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS: Tolnaftate topically applied is not likely to affect drugs taken or injected, but many drugs can interact with each other.

=== AMOXICILLIN AND CLAVULANATE POTASSIUM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium is indicated for the treatment of infections in adults and pediatric patients, due to susceptible isolates of the designated bacteria in the conditions listed below: Lower Respiratory Tract Infections - caused by beta‑lactamase–producing isolates of Haemophilus influenzae and Moraxella catarrhalis . Acute Bacterial Otitis Media - caused by beta‑lactamase–producing isolates of H. influenzae and M. catarrhalis . Sinusitis - caused by beta‑lactamase–producing isolates of H. Skin and Skin Structure Infections - caused by beta‑lactamase–producing isolates of Staphylococcus aureus , Escherichia coli , and Klebsiella species. Urinary Tract Infections - caused by beta‑lactamase–producing isolates of E. coli , Klebsiella species, and Enterobacter species. Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium is a combination of amoxicillin, a penicillin-class antibacterial and clavulanate potassium, a beta‑lactamase inhibitor indicated for treatment of the following infections in adults and pediatric patients: ( 1 ) Lower respiratory tract infections Acute bacterial otitis media Sinusitis Skin and skin structure infections Urinary tract infections Limitations of Use When susceptibility test results show susceptibility to amoxicillin, indicating no beta-lactamase production, Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium should not be used. ( 1 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium and other antibacterial drugs, Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use When susceptibility test results show susceptibility to amoxicillin, indicating no beta-lactamase production, Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium should not be used. Usage To reduce the development of drug‑resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium and other antibacterial drugs, Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and other antibacterial drugs, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, USP, for oral suspension, USP, and chewable tablets, USP are a combination penicillin-class antibacterial and beta-lactamase inhibitor indicated in the treatment of infections due to susceptible isolates of the designated bacteria in the conditions listed below: Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, USP, for oral suspension, USP, and chewable tablets, USP are a combination penicillin-class antibacterial and beta-lactamase inhibitor indicated for treatment of the following: • Lower respiratory tract infections ( 1.1 ) • Acute bacterial otitis media ( 1.2 ) • Sinusitis ( 1.3 ) • Skin and skin structure infections ( 1.4 ) • Urinary tract infections ( 1.5 ) 1.1 Lower Respiratory Tract Infections Caused by beta-lactamase–producing isolates of Haemophilus influenzae and Moraxella catarrhalis . 1.2 Acute Bacterial Otitis Media Caused by beta-lactamase–producing isolates of H. 1.3 Sinusitis Caused by beta-lactamase–producing isolates of H. 1.4 Skin and Skin Structure Infections Caused by beta-lactamase–producing isolates of Staphylococcus aureus , Escherichia coli , and Klebsiella species. 1.5 Urinary Tract Infections Caused by beta-lactamase–producing isolates of E. 1.6 Limitations of Use When susceptibility test results show susceptibility to amoxicillin, indicating no beta-lactamase production, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should not be used. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is indicated for the treatment of infections in adults and pediatric patients, due to susceptible isolates of the designated bacteria in the conditions listed below: • Lower Respiratory Tract Infections - caused by beta‑lactamase‑producing isolates of Haemophilus influenzae and Moraxella catarrhalis . • Acute Bacterial Otitis Media - caused by beta‑lactamase‑producing isolates of H. • Sinusitis - caused by beta‑lactamase‑producing isolates of H. • Skin and Skin Structure Infections - caused by beta‑lactamase‑producing isolates of Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, and Klebsiella species . • Urinary Tract Infections - caused by beta‑lactamase‑producing isolates of E. coli, Klebsiella species , and Enterobacter species. Limitations of Use When susceptibility test results show susceptibility to amoxicillin, indicating no beta-lactamase production, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should not be used. Usage To reduce the development of drug‑resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and other antibacterial drugs, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is a combination of amoxicllin, a penicillin-class antibacterial and clavulanate potassium, a beta‑lactamase inhibitor indicated for treatment of the following infections in adults and pediatric patients: ( 1 ) • Lower respiratory tract infections • Acute bacterial otitis media • Sinusitis • Skin and skin structure infections • Urinary tract infections Limitations of Use When susceptibility test results show susceptibility to amoxicillin, indicating no beta-lactamase production, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should not be used. ( 1 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and other antibacterial drugs, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) are indicated for the treatment of infections in adults and pediatric patients, due to susceptible isolates of the designated bacteria in the conditions listed below: Lower Respiratory Tract Infections – caused by beta–lactamase–producing isolates of Haemophilus influenzae and Moraxella catarrhalis . Acute Bacterial Otitis Media – caused by beta–lactamase–producing isolates of H. Sinusitis – caused by beta–lactamase–producing isolates of H. Skin and Skin Structure Infections – caused by beta–lactamase–producing isolates of Staphylococcus aureus , Escherichia coli , and Klebsiella species. Urinary Tract Infections – caused by beta–lactamase–producing isolates of E. Limitations of Use When susceptibility test results show susceptibility to amoxicillin, indicating no beta–lactamase production, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) should not be used. Usage To reduce the development of drug–resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and other antibacterial drugs, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) are combination of amoxicillin, a penicillin–class antibacterial and clavulanate potassium, a beta–lactamase inhibitor indicated for treatment of the following infections in adults and pediatric patients: ( 1 ) Lower respiratory tract infections Acute bacterial otitis media Sinusitis Skin and skin structure infections Urinary tract infections Limitations of Use When susceptibility test results show susceptibility to amoxicillin, indicating no beta–lactamase production, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) should not be used. ( 1 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug–resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) and other antibacterial drugs, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE AUGMENTIN is indicated for the treatment of infections in adults and pediatric patients, due to susceptible isolates of the designated bacteria in the conditions listed below: Lower Respiratory Tract Infections - caused by beta‑lactamase–producing isolates of Haemophilus influenzae and Moraxella catarrhalis . AUGMENTIN is a combination of amoxicillin, a penicillin-class antibacterial and clavulanate potassium, a beta‑lactamase inhibitor indicated for treatment of the following infections in adults and pediatric patients: ( 1 ) Lower respiratory tract infections Acute bacterial otitis media Sinusitis Skin and skin structure infections Urinary tract infections Limitations of Use When susceptibility test results show susceptibility to amoxicillin, indicating no beta-lactamase production, AUGMENTIN should not be used. ( 1 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of AUGMENTIN and other antibacterial drugs, AUGMENTIN should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use When susceptibility test results show susceptibility to amoxicillin, indicating no beta-lactamase production, AUGMENTIN should not be used. Usage To reduce the development of drug‑resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of AUGMENTIN and other antibacterial drugs, AUGMENTIN should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets are indicated for the treatment of infections in adults and pediatric patients, due to susceptible isolates of the designated bacteria in the conditions listed below: • Lower Respiratory Tract Infections - caused by beta‑lactamase‑producing isolates of Haemophilus influenzae and Moraxella catarrhalis . • Skin and Skin Structure Infections - caused by beta‑lactamase‑producing isolates of Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, and Klebsiella species. coli, Klebsiella species, and Enterobacter species. Limitations of Use When susceptibility test results show susceptibility to amoxicillin, indicating no beta-lactamase production, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets should not be used. Usage To reduce the development of drug‑resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets and other antibacterial drugs, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets are a combination of amoxicillin, a penicillin-class antibacterial and clavulanate potassium, a beta‑lactamase inhibitor indicated for treatment of the following infections in adults and pediatric patients: ( 1 ) Lower respiratory tract infections Acute bacterial otitis media Sinusitis Skin and skin structure infections Urinary tract infections Limitations of Use When susceptibility test results show susceptibility to amoxicillin, indicating no beta-lactamase production, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets should not be used. ( 1 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets and other antibacterial drugs, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium is indicated for the treatment of infections in adults and pediatric patients, due to susceptible isolates of the designated bacteria in the conditions listed below: • Lower Respiratory Tract Infections - caused by beta‑lactamase–producing isolates of Haemophilus influenzae and Moraxella catarrhalis . • Acute Bacterial Otitis Media - caused by beta‑lactamase–producing isolates of H. • Sinusitis - caused by beta‑lactamase–producing isolates of H. • Skin and Skin Structure Infections - caused by beta‑lactamase–producing isolates of Staphylococcus aureus , Escherichia coli , and Klebsiella species. • Urinary Tract Infections - caused by beta‑lactamase–producing isolates of E. Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium is a combination of amoxicillin, a penicillin-class antibacterial and clavulanate potassium, a beta‑lactamase inhibitor indicated for treatment of the following infections in adults and pediatric patients: ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. ) • Lower respiratory tract infections • Acute bacterial otitis media • Sinusitis • Skin and skin structure infections • Urinary tract infections Limitations of Use When susceptibility test results show susceptibility to amoxicillin, indicating no beta-lactamase production, Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium should not be used. ( Error! ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium and other antibacterial drugs, Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ) Limitations of Use When susceptibility test results show susceptibility to amoxicillin, indicating no beta-lactamase production, Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium should not be used. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug‑resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and other antibacterial drugs, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is a combination penicillin-class antibacterial and beta-lactamase inhibitor indicated in the treatment of infections due to susceptible isolates of the designated bacteria in the conditions listed below*: Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is a combination penicillin-class antibacterial and beta‑lactamase inhibitor indicated for treatment of the following: Lower respiratory tract infections ( ( 1.1 ) Acute bacterial otitis media ( ( 1.2 ) Sinusitis (1.3) Skin and skin structure infections (1.4) Urinary tract infections (1.5) 1.1 Lower Respiratory Tract Infections caused by beta‑lactamase–producing isolates of Haemophilus influenzae and Moraxella catarrhalis . 1.2 Acute Bacterial Otitis Media caused by beta‑lactamase–producing isolates of H. 1.3 Sinusitis caused by beta‑lactamase–producing isolates of H. 1.4 Skin and Skin Structure Infections caused by beta‑lactamase–producing isolates of Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, and Klebsiella species . 1.5 Urinary Tract Infections caused by beta‑lactamase–producing isolates of E. • Skin and Skin Structure Infections - caused by beta‑lactamase‑producing isolates of Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli and Klebsiella species.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and Pediatric Patients greater than 40 kg: 500 or 875 mg every 12 hours or 250 or 500 mg every 8 hours, based on the amoxicillin component. ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) Pediatric patients aged 12 weeks (3 months) and older: 25 to 45 mg/kg/day every 12 hours or 20 to 40 mg/kg/day every 8 hours, up to the adult dose. ( 2.3 ) Neonates and infants less than 12 weeks of age: 30 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours, based on the amoxicillin component. Use of the 125 mg/5 mL oral suspension is recommended. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium may be taken without regard to meals; however, absorption of clavulanate potassium is enhanced when Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium is administered at the start of a meal. To minimize the potential for gastrointestinal intolerance, Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium should be taken at the start of a meal. 2.2 Adult Patients See dosing regimens of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium (based on the amoxicillin component) provided in Table 1 below. Table 1. Dosing Regimens of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium in Adult Patients TYPE OF INFECTION DOSING REGIMEN OF Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Severe infections and infections of the respiratory tract one 875 mg tablet a of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium every 12 hours or one 500 mg tablet b,c of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium every 8 hours Less severe infections one 500 mg tablet b,c of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium every 12 hours or one 250 mg tablet d of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium every 8 hours a Adults who have difficulty swallowing may be given the Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL suspension or the Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL suspension may be used in place of the 875 mg/125 mg tablet. b Adults who have difficulty swallowing may be given the Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL or Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 250 mg/62.5 mg per 5 mL suspension in place of the 500 mg/125 mg tablet. c Two Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 250 mg/125 mg tablets are NOT substitutable with one 500 mg/125 mg Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium tablet [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )] . d Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 250 mg/125 mg tablet is NOT substitutable with Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )] 2.3 Pediatric Patients Based on the amoxicillin component, Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium should be dosed as follows: Neonates and Infants Aged less than 12 weeks (less than 3 months) : See dosing regimens of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium provided in Table 2 below. Table 2: Dosing Regimens of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium in Neonates and Infants Aged Less than 12 Weeks (Less than 3 Months) PATIENT POPULATION DOSING REGIMEN Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension a Neonates and Infants aged less than 12 weeks (less than 3 months) 30 mg/kg/day every 12 hours a Experience with the Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL formulation in this age group is limited, and thus, use of the Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension is recommended. Patients Aged 12 weeks (3 months) and Older and Weighing Less than 40 kg : See dosing regimens provided in Table 3 below. The every 12 hour regimen is recommended as it is associated with significantly less diarrhea [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . The Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL and Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL) for oral suspension and Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg and Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 400 mg/57 mg chewable tablets contain aspartame and should not be used by phenylketonurics. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )]. Table 3: Dosing in Patients Aged 12 Weeks (3 Months) and Older and Weighing Less than 40 kg a Each strength of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium oral suspension is available as a chewable tablet for use by older children. b Duration of therapy studied and recommended for acute otitis media is 10 days. INFECTION DOSING REGIMEN Every 12 hours Every 8 hours Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL or Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL oral suspension a Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL or Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 250 mg/62.5 mg per 5 mL oral suspension a Otitis media b , sinusitis, lower respiratory tract infections, and more severe infections 45 mg/kg/day every 12 hours 40 mg/kg/day every 8 hours Less severe infections 25 mg/kg/day every 12 hours 20 mg/kg/day every 8 hours Patients Weighing 40 kg or More : Pediatric patients weighing 40 kg or more should be dosed according to adult recommendations. The 250 mg/125 mg tablet of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium should NOT be used until the child weighs at least 40 kg, due to the different amoxicillin to clavulanic acid ratios in the 250 mg/125 mg tablet of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium versus the 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium. 2.4 Patients with Renal Impairment Patients with impaired renal function do not generally require a reduction in dose unless the impairment is severe. Renal impairment patients with a glomerular filtration rate (GFR) of less than 30 mL/min should NOT receive the 875 mg dose (based on the amoxicillin component) of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium. See dosing regimens in patients with severe renal impairment provided in Table 4. Table 4. Dosing Regimens of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium in Patients with Severe Renal Impairment Patients with Renal Impairment Dosing Regimen GFR 10 mL/min to 30 mL/min 500 mg or 250 mg every 12 hours, depending on the severity of the infection GFR less than 10 mL/min 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours, depending on severity of the infection Hemodialysis 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours, depending on severity of the infection Administer an additional dose both during and at the end of dialysis 2.5 Directions for Mixing Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension Prepare Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for oral suspension at time of dispensing as follows: Tap bottle until all powder flows freely. Measure a total (see Table 5 below for total amount of water for reconstitution) OF WATER. Add approximately 2/3 of the water to the powder. Replace cap and shake VIGOROUSLY. Add remaining water. Table 5: Amount of Water for Mixing Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension Strength of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassiumfor Oral Suspension Bottle Size Amount of Water for Reconstitution Contents of Each Teaspoonful (5 mL) 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL 75 mL 100 mL 150 mL 67 mL 90 mL 134 mL 125 mg of amoxicillin and 31.25 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL 50 mL 75 mL 100 mL 50 mL 75 mL 95 mL 200 mg of amoxicillin and 28.5 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt 250 mg/62.5 mg per 5 mL 75 mL 100 mL 150 mL 65 mL 87 mL 130 mL 250 mg of amoxicillin and 62.5 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL 50 mL 75 mL 100 mL 50 mL 70 mL 90 mL 400 mg of amoxicillin and 57 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt Shake oral suspension well before using. Reconstituted suspension must be stored under refrigeration and discarded after 10 days. Some color change is normal during dosing period. 2.6 Switching between Dosage Forms and between Strengths Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 250 mg/125 mg Tablet is NOT Substitutable with Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 250 mg/62.5 mg Chewable Tablet The 250 mg/125 mg tablet of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium and the 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium should NOT be substituted for each other and the 250 mg/125 mg tablet of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium should NOT be used in pediatric patients weighing less than 40 kg [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] . The 250 mg tablet of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium and the 250 mg chewable tablet of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium do not contain the same amount of clavulanic acid. The 250 mg tablet of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium contains 125 mg of clavulanic acid whereas the 250 mg chewable tablet of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium contains 62.5 mg of clavulanic acid. Two Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 250 mg/125 mg Tablets are NOT Substitutable with One 500 mg/125 mg Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablet Two 250 mg/125 mg tablets of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium should NOT be substituted for one 500 mg/125 mg tablet of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium. Since both the 250 mg and 500 mg tablets of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium contain the same amount of clavulanic acid (125 mg, as the potassium salt), two 250 mg tablets of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium are not equivalent to one 500 mg tablet of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium may be taken without regard to meals; however, absorption of clavulanate potassium is enhanced when amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is administered at the start of a meal. • Adults and Pediatric Patients > 40 kg: 500 or 875 mg every 12 hours or 250 or 500 mg every 8 hours. ( 2.1 , 2.2 ) • Pediatric patients aged 12 weeks (3 months) and older: 25 to 45 mg/kg/day every 12 hours or 20 to 40 mg/kg/day every 8 hours, up to the adult dose. ( 2.2 ) • Neonates and infants < 12 weeks of age: 30 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours, based on the amoxicillin component. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Adults The usual adult dose is one 500-mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium every 12 hours or one 250mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium every 8 hours. For more severe infections and infections of the respiratory tract, the dose should be one 875-mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium every 12 hours or one 500-mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium every 8 hours. Adults who have difficulty swallowing may be given the 125 mg/5 mL or 250 mg/5 mL suspension in place of the 500-mg tablet. The 200 mg/5 mL suspension or the 400 mg/5 mL suspension may be used in place of the 875-mg tablet. Two 250-mg tablets of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should not be substituted for one 500-mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium. Since both the 250-mg and 500-mg tablets of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium contain the same amount of clavulanic acid (125 mg, as the potassium salt), two 250-mg tablets are not equivalent to one 500-mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium. The 250-mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and the 250-mg chewable tablet should not be substituted for each other, as they are not interchangeable. The 250-mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and the 250-mg chewable tablet do not contain the same amount of clavulanic acid (as the potassium salt). The 250-mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium contains 125 mg of clavulanic acid, whereas the 250-mg chewable tablet contains 62.5 mg of clavulanic acid. 2.2 Pediatric Patients Based on the amoxicillin component, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should be dosed as follows: Neonates and Infants Aged <12 weeks (<3 months): The recommended dose of Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is 30 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours, based on the amoxicillin component. Experience with the 200 mg/5 mL formulation in this age group is limited, and thus, use of the 125 mg/5 mL oral suspension is recommended. Patients Aged 12 weeks (3 months) and Older: See dosing regimens provided in Table 1 . However, the every 12 hour suspension (200 mg/5 mL and 400 mg/5 mL) and chewable tablets (200 mg and 400 mg) contain aspartame and should not be used by phenylketonurics. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] Table 1. Dosing in Patients Aged 12 weeks (3 months) and Older DOSING REGIMEN Every 12 hours Every 8 hours INFECTION 200 mg/5 mL or 400 mg/5 mL oral suspension Each strength of suspension of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is available as a chewable tablet for use by older children. 125 mg/5 mL or 250 mg/5 mL oral suspension Otitis media Duration of therapy studied and recommended for acute otitis media is 10 days. , sinusitis, lower respiratory tract infections, and more severe infections 45 mg/kg/day every 12 hours 40 mg/kg/day every 8 hours Less severe infections 25 mg/kg/day every 12 hours 20 mg/kg/day every 8 hours Patients Weighing 40 kg or More: Pediatric patients weighing 40 kg or more should be dosed according to adult recommendations. The 250-mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should not be used until the child weighs at least 40 kg, due to the different amoxicillin to clavulanic acid ratios in the 250-mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium (250 mg/125 mg) versus the 250-mg chewable tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium (250 mg/62.5 mg). 2.3 Patients with Renal Impairment Patients with impaired renal function do not generally require a reduction in dose unless the impairment is severe. Renal impairment patients with a glomerular filtration rate of <30 mL/min should not receive the 875-mg dose. Patients with a glomerular filtration rate of 10 to 30 mL/min should receive 500 mg or 250 mg every 12 hours, depending on the severity of the infection. Patients with a glomerular filtration rate less than 10 mL/min should receive 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours, depending on severity of the infection. Hemodialysis patients should receive 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours, depending on severity of the infection. They should receive an additional dose both during and at the end of dialysis. 2.4 Directions for Mixing Oral Suspension Prepare a suspension at time of dispensing as follows: Tap bottle until all the powder flows freely. Add approximately 2/3 of the total amount of water for reconstitution (see Table 2 below) and shake vigorously to suspend powder. Add remainder of the water and again shake vigorously. Table 2. Amount of Water for Mixing Oral Suspension Strength Bottle Size Amount of Water for Reconstitution Contents of Each Teaspoonful (5 mL) 200 mg/5 mL 100 mL 88 mL 200 mg amoxicillin and 28.5 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt 400 mg/5 mL 100 mL 84 mL 400 mg amoxicillin and 57 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt Note: Shake oral suspension well before using. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Adults and Pediatric Patients greater than 40 kg: 500 or 875 mg every 12 hours or 250 or 500 mg every 8 hours, based on amoxicillin component. ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) • Pediatric patients aged 12 weeks (3 months) and older: 25 to 45 mg/kg/day every 12 hours or 20 to 40 mg/kg/day every 8 hours, up to the adult dose. (2.3) • Neonates and infants less than 12 weeks of age: 30 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours, based on the amoxicillin component. (2.3) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension may be taken without regard to meals; however, absorption of clavulanate potassium is enhanced when amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension are administered at the start of a meal. To minimize the potential for gastrointestinal intolerance, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension should be taken at the start of a meal. Dosing Regimens of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium in Adult Patients TYPE OF INFECTION DOSING REGIMEN OF AMOXICILLIN AND CLAVULANATE POTASSIUM Severe infections and infections of the respiratory tract one 875 mg tablet* of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium every 12 hours or one 500 mg tablet †, ‡ of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium every 8 hours Less severe infections one 500 mg tablet †, ‡ of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium every 12 hours or one 250 mg tablet § of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium every 8 hours * Adults who have difficulty swallowing may be given the amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL suspension or the amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL suspension may be used in place of the 875 mg/125 mg tablet. † Adults who have difficulty swallowing may be given the amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL or amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 250 mg/62.5 mg per 5 mL suspension in place of the 500 mg/125 mg tablet. ‡ Two amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 250 mg/125 mg tablets are NOT substitutable with one 500 mg/125 mg amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablet [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)] . § amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 250 mg/125 mg tablet is NOT substitutable with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)] . 2.3 Pediatric Patients Based on the amoxicillin component, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should be dosed as follows: Neonates and Infants Aged less than 12 weeks (less than 3 months) See dosing regimens of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium provided in Table 2 below. Table 2: Dosing Regimens of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium in Neonates and Infants Aged Less than 12 Weeks (Less than 3 Months) PATIENT POPULATION DOSING REGIMEN Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension* Neonates and Infants aged less than 12 weeks (less than 3 months) 30 mg/kg/day every 12 hours * Experience with the amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL formulation in this age group is limited, and thus, use of the amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension is recommended. Patients Aged 12 weeks (3 months) and Older and Weighing Less than 40 kg See dosing regimens provided in Table 3 below. • The every 12 hour regimen is recommended as it is associated with significantly less diarrhea [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. Table 3: Dosing in Patients Aged 12 Weeks (3 Months) and Older and Weighing Less than 40 kg INFECTION DOSING REGIMEN Every 12 hours Every 8 hours Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL or Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension* Amoxicillin and Clavulanate potassium 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL or Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 250 mg/62.5 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension* Otitis media † , sinusitis, lower respiratory tract infections, and more severe infections 45 mg/kg/day every 12 hours 40 mg/kg/day every 8 hours Less severe infections 25 mg/kg/day every 12 hours 20 mg/kg/day every 8 hours * Each strength of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension is available as a chewable tablet for use by older children. † Duration of therapy studied and recommended for acute otitis media is 10 days. Patients Weighing 40 kg or More Pediatric patients weighing 40 kg or more should be dosed according to adult recommendations. • The 250 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should NOT be used until the child weighs at least 40 kg, due to the different amoxicillin to clavulanic acid ratios in the 250 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium versus the 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium. See dosing regimens in patients with severe renal impairment provided in Table 4 . Table 5: Amount of Water for Mixing Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension Strength of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate potassium for Oral Suspension Bottle Size Amount of Water for Reconstitution Contents of Each Teaspoonful (5 mL) 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL 50 mL 75 mL 100 mL 47 mL 70 mL 93 mL 200 mg of amoxicillin and 28.5 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL 50 mL 75 mL 100 mL 45 mL 67 mL 89 mL 400 mg of amoxicillin and 57 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt Shake oral suspension well before using. 2.6 Switching between Dosage Forms and between Strengths Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 250 mg/125 mg Tablet is NOT Substitutable with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 250 mg/62.5 mg Chewable Tablet The 250 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and the 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should NOT be substituted for each other and the 250 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should NOT be used in pediatric patients weighing less than 40 kg [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and Pediatric Patients greater than 40 kg: 500 mg or 875 mg every 12 hours or 250 mg or 500 mg every 8 hours, based on amoxicillin component. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) may be taken without regard to meals; however, absorption of clavulanate potassium is enhanced when amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) are administered at the start of a meal. To minimize the potential for gastrointestinal intolerance, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension, and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) should be taken at the start of a meal. 2.2 Adult Patients See dosing regimens of amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium (based on the amoxicillin component) provided in Table 1 below. Dosing Regimens of Amoxicillin/Clavulanate Potassium in Adult Patients TYPE OF INFECTION DOSING REGIMEN OF AMOXICILLIN/CLAVULANATE POTASSIUM Severe infections and infections of the respiratory tract one 875 mg tablet a of amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium every 12 hours or one 500 mg tablet b,c of amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium every 8 hours Less severe infections one 500 mg tablet b,c of amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium every 12 hours or one 250 mg tablet d of amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium every 8 hours a Adults who have difficulty swallowing may be given the amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension or the amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension may be used in place of the 875 mg/125 mg tablet. b Adults who have difficulty swallowing may be given the amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension or amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 250 mg/62.5 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension in place of the 500 mg/125 mg tablet. d Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 250 mg/125 mg tablet is NOT substitutable with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )] . 2.3 Pediatric Patients Based on the amoxicillin component, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension should be dosed as follows: Neonates and Infants Aged less than 12 Weeks (less than 3 Months) : See dosing regimens of amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium provided in Table 2 below. Table 2: Dosing Regimens of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension in Neonates and Infants Aged Less than 12 Weeks (Less than 3 Months) PATIENT POPULATION DOSING REGIMEN Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL for Oral Suspension a Neonates and Infants aged less than 12 weeks (less than 3 months) 30 mg/kg/day every 12 hours a Experience with the amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL formulation in this age group is limited, and thus, use of the amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension is recommended. The amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension and amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg and amoxicillin and clavulanate tablets (chewable) 400 mg/57 mg contain aspartame and should not be used by phenylketonurics [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] . Table 3: Dosing in Patients Aged 12 Weeks (3 Months) and Older and Weighing Less than 40 kg INFECTION DOSING REGIMEN Every 12 hours Amoxicillin/Clavulanate Potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL for Oral Suspension or Amoxicillin/Clavulanate Potassium 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL for Oral Suspension a Otitis media b , sinusitis, lower respiratory tract infections, and more severe infections 45 mg/kg/day every 12 hours Less severe infections 25 mg/kg/day every 12 hours Each strength of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension is available as a chewable tablet for use by older children. Duration of therapy studied and recommended for acute otitis media is 10 days. Patients Weighing 40 kg or More: Pediatric patients weighing 40 kg or more should be dosed according to adult recommendations. The 250 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets should NOT be used until the child weighs at least 40 kg, due to the different amoxicillin to clavulanic acid ratios in the 250 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets versus the 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable). Renal impairment patients with a glomerular filtration rate (GFR) of less than 30 mL/min should NOT receive the 875 mg dose (based on the amoxicillin component) of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets. Dosing Regimens of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets in Patients with Severe Renal Impairment Patients with Renal Impairment Dosing Regimen GFR 10 mL/min to 30 mL/min 500 mg or 250 mg every 12 hours, depending on the severity of the infection GFR less than 10 mL/min 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours, depending on severity of the infection Hemodialysis 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours, depending on severity of the infection Administer an additional dose both during and at the end of dialysis 2.5 Directions for Mixing Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension Prepare amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension at time of dispensing as follows: Tap bottle until all powder flows freely. Table 5: Amount of Water for Mixing Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension Strength of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension Bottle Size Amount of Water for Reconstitution Contents of Each Teaspoonful (5 mL) 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL 100 mL 92 mL 200 mg of amoxicillin and 28.5 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL 100 mL 87 mL 400 mg of amoxicillin and 57 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt Shake oral suspension well before using. 2.6 Switching between Dosage Forms and between Strengths Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablet, 250 mg/125 mg are NOT Substitutable with Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Chewable Tablet, 250 mg/62.5 mg The 250 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets and the 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) should NOT be substituted for each other and the tablet of 250 mg/125 mg amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets should NOT be used in pediatric patients weighing less than 40 kg [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] . The 250 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets and the tablet of 250 mg amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) do not contain the same amount of clavulanic acid. The 250 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets contain 125 mg of clavulanic acid whereas the 250 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets (chewable) contain 62.5 mg of clavulanic acid. Two Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablets, 250 mg/125 mg are NOT Substitutable with One Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Tablet, 500 mg/125 mg Two 250 mg/125 mg amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets should NOT be substituted for one 500 mg/125 mg amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablet. Since both the 250 mg and 500 mg tablets of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets contain the same amount of clavulanic acid (125 mg, as the potassium salt), two 250 mg tablets of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets are not equivalent to one 500 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablet. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions AUGMENTIN may be taken without regard to meals; however, absorption of clavulanate potassium is enhanced when AUGMENTIN is administered at the start of a meal. To minimize the potential for gastrointestinal intolerance, AUGMENTIN should be taken at the start of a meal. 2.2 Adult Patients See dosing regimens of AUGMENTIN (based on the amoxicillin component) provided in Table 1 below. Dosing Regimens of AUGMENTIN in Adult Patients TYPE OF INFECTION DOSING REGIMEN OF Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium Severe infections and infections of the respiratory tract one 875 mg tablet a of AUGMENTIN every 12 hours or one 500 mg tablet b,c of AUGMENTIN every 8 hours Less severe infections one 500 mg tablet b,c of AUGMENTIN every 12 hours or one 250 mg tablet d of AUGMENTIN every 8 hours a Adults who have difficulty swallowing may be given the AUGMENTIN 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL suspension or the AUGMENTIN 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL suspension may be used in place of the 875 mg/125 mg tablet. b Adults who have difficulty swallowing may be given the AUGMENTIN 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL or AUGMENTIN 250 mg/62.5 mg per 5 mL suspension in place of the 500 mg/125 mg tablet. c Two AUGMENTIN 250 mg/125 mg tablets are NOT substitutable with one 500 mg/125 mg AUGMENTIN tablet [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )] . d AUGMENTIN 250 mg/125 mg tablet is NOT substitutable with AUGMENTIN 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )] 2.3 Pediatric Patients Based on the amoxicillin component, AUGMENTIN should be dosed as follows: Neonates and Infants Aged less than 12 weeks (less than 3 months) : See dosing regimens of AUGMENTIN provided in Table 2 below. Table 2: Dosing Regimens of AUGMENTIN in Neonates and Infants Aged Less than 12 Weeks (Less than 3 Months) PATIENT POPULATION DOSING REGIMEN AUGMENTIN 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension a Neonates and Infants aged less than 12 weeks (less than 3 months) 30 mg/kg/day every 12 hours a Experience with the AUGMENTIN 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL formulation in this age group is limited, and thus, use of the AUGMENTIN 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension is recommended. Patients Aged 12 weeks (3 months) and Older and Weighing Less than 40 kg: See dosing regimens provided in Table 3 below. The every 12 hour regimen is recommended as it is associated with significantly less diarrhea [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2)] . [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8)]. Table 3: Dosing in Patients Aged 12 Weeks (3 Months) and Older and Weighing Less than 40 kg Table Patients Weighing 40 kg or More : Pediatric patients weighing 40 kg or more should be dosed according to adult recommendations. The 250 mg/125 mg tablet of AUGMENTIN should NOT be used until the child weighs at least 40 kg, due to the different amoxicillin to clavulanic acid ratios in the 250 mg/125 mg tablet of AUGMENTIN versus the 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet of AUGMENTIN. Renal impairment patients with a glomerular filtration rate (GFR) of less than 30 mL/min should NOT receive the 875 mg dose (based on the amoxicillin component) of AUGMENTIN. Dosing Regimens of AUGMENTIN in Patients with Severe Renal Impairment Patients with Renal Impairment Dosing Regimen GFR 10 mL/min to 30 mL/min 500 mg or 250 mg every 12 hours, depending on the severity of the infection GFR less than 10 mL/min 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours, depending on severity of the infection Hemodialysis 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours, depending on severity of the infection Administer an additional dose both during and at the end of dialysis 2.5 Directions for Mixing Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium for Oral Suspension Prepare AUGMENTIN for oral suspension at time of dispensing as follows: Tap bottle until all powder flows freely. Table 5: Amount of Water for Mixing AUGMENTIN for Oral Suspension Strength of AUGMENTIN Oral Suspension Bottle Size Amount of Water for Reconstitution Contents of Each Teaspoonful (5 mL) 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL 75 mL 100 mL 150 mL 67 mL 90 mL 134 mL 125 mg of amoxicillin and 31.25 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt 250 mg/62.5 mg per 5 mL 75 mL 100 mL 150 mL 65 mL 87 mL 130 mL 250 mg of amoxicillin and 62.5 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt Shake oral suspension well before using. 2.6 Switching between Dosage Forms and between Strengths AUGMENTIN 250 mg/125 mg Tablet is NOT Substitutable with AUGMENTIN 250 mg/62.5 mg Chewable Tablet The 250 mg/125 mg tablet of AUGMENTIN and the 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet of AUGMENTIN should NOT be substituted for each other and the 250 mg/125 mg tablet of AUGMENTIN should NOT be used in pediatric patients weighing less than 40 kg [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] . The 250 mg tablet of AUGMENTIN and the 250 mg chewable tablet of AUGMENTIN do not contain the same amount of clavulanic acid. The 250 mg tablet of AUGMENTIN contains 125 mg of clavulanic acid whereas the 250 mg chewable tablet of AUGMENTIN contains 62.5 mg of clavulanic acid. Two AUGMENTIN 250 mg/125 mg Tablets are NOT Substitutable with One 500 mg/125 mg AUGMENTIN Tablet Two 250 mg/125 mg tablets of AUGMENTIN should NOT be substituted for one 500 mg/125 mg tablet of AUGMENTIN. Since both the 250 mg and 500 mg tablets of AUGMNTIN contain the same amount of clavulanic acid (125 mg, as the potassium salt), two 250 mg tablets of AUGMENTIN are not equivalent to one 500 mg tablet of AUGMENTIN. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and Pediatric Patients greater than 40 kg: 500 or 875 mg every 12 hours or 250 or 500 mg every 8 hours, based on amoxicillin component. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets may be taken without regard to meals; however, absorption of clavulanate potassium is enhanced when amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets are administered at the start of a meal. To minimize the potential for gastrointestinal intolerance, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets should be taken at the start of a meal. b Adults who have difficulty swallowing may be given the amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL suspension or amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 250 mg/62.5 mg per 5 mL suspension in place of the 500 mg/125 mg tablet. 2.3 Pediatric Patients Based on the amoxicillin component, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should be dosed as follows: Neonates and Infants Aged less than 12 weeks (less than 3 months) : See dosing regimens of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium provided in Table 2 below. Table 2: Dosing Regimens of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium in Neonates and Infants Aged Less than 12 Weeks (Less than 3 Months) PATIENT POPULATION DOSING REGIMEN A moxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension a Neonates and Infants aged less than 12 weeks (less than 3 months) 30 mg/kg/day every 12 hours a Experience with the amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL formulation in this age group is limited, and thus, use of the amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension is recommended. • The every 12 hour regimen is recommended as it is associated with significantly less diarrhea [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . Table 3: Dosing in Patients Aged 12 Weeks (3 Months) and Older and Weighing Less than 40 kg INFECTION DOSING REGIMEN Every 12 hours Every 8 hours Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL or Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension a Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension 125 mg/31.25 mg per 5 mL or Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium 250 mg/62.5 mg per 5 mL for oral suspension a Otitis media b , sinusitis, lower respiratory tract infections, and more severe infections 45 mg/kg/day every 12 hours 40 mg/kg/day every 8 hours Less severe infections 25 mg/kg/day every 12 hours 20 mg/kg/day every 8 hours a Each strength of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium for oral suspension is available as a chewable tablet for use by older children. Patients Weighing 40 kg or More : Pediatric patients weighing 40 kg or more should be dosed according to adult recommendations. Renal impairment patients with a glomerular filtration rate (GFR) of less than 30 mL/min should NOT receive the 875 mg dose (based on the amoxicillin component) of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablet. Dosing Regimens of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium in Patients with Severe Renal Impairment Patients with Renal Impairment Dosing Regimen GFR 10 mL/min to 30 mL/min 500 mg or 250 mg every 12 hours, depending on the severity of the infection GFR less than 10 mL/min 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours, depending on severity of the infection Hemodialysis 500 mg or 250 mg every 24 hours, depending on severity of the infection Administer an additional dose both during and at the end of dialysis 2.6 Switching between Dosage Forms and between Strengths Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 250 mg/125 mg Tablet is NOT Substitutable with Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 250 mg/62.5 mg Chewable Tablet The 250 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and the 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should NOT be substituted for each other and the 250 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should NOT be used in pediatric patients weighing less than 40 kg [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )]. The 250 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and the 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium do not contain the same amount of clavulanic acid. The 250 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium contains 125 mg of clavulanic acid whereas the 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium contains 62.5 mg of clavulanic acid. Since both the 250 mg/125 mg and 500 mg/125 mg tablets of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium contain the same amount of clavulanic acid (125 mg, as the potassium salt), two 250 mg/125 mg tablets of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium are not equivalent to one 500 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Adults and Pediatric Patients greater than 40 kg: 500 or 875 mg every 12 hours or 250 or 500 mg every 8 hours, based on the amoxicillin component. ( 2.3 ) • Neonates and infants less than 12 weeks of age: 30 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours, based on the amoxicillin component. • The Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg per 5 mL and Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 400 mg/57 mg per 5 mL) for oral suspension and Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 200 mg/28.5 mg and Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium 400 mg/57 mg chewable tablets contain aspartame and should not be used by phenylketonurics. (2.2) • Neonates and infants < 12 weeks of age: 30 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours, based on the amoxicillin component. (2.2) 2.1 Adults The usual adult dose is one amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablet, 500 mg/125 mg every 12 hours or one amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablet, 250 mg/125 mg every 8 hours. For more severe infections and infections of the respiratory tract, the dose should be one amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablet, 875 mg/125 mg every 12 hours or one amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablet, 500 mg/125 mg every 8 hours. Adults who have difficulty swallowing may be given the 125 mg/5 mL or 250 mg/5 mL suspension in place of the 500 mg/125 mg tablet. The 200 mg/5 mL suspension or the 400 mg/5 mL suspension may be used in place of the 875 mg/125 mg tablet. Two 250 mg/125 mg tablets of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should not be substituted for one 500 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium. Since both the 250 mg/125 mg and 500 mg/125 mg tablets of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium contain the same amount of clavulanic acid (125 mg, as the potassium salt), two 250 mg/125 mg tablets are not equivalent to one 500 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium. The 250 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and the 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet should not be substituted for each other, as they are not interchangeable. The 250 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and the 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet do not contain the same amount of clavulanic acid (as the potassium salt). The 250 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium contains 125 mg of clavulanic acid, whereas the 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet contains 62.5 mg of clavulanic acid. 2.2 Pediatric Patients Based on the amoxicillin component, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should be dosed as follows: Neonates and Infants Aged < 12 weeks (< 3 months) The recommended dose of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is 30 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours, based on the amoxicillin component. Experience with the 200 mg/28.5 mg/5 mL formulation in this age group is limited, and thus, use of the 125 mg/31.25 mg/5 mL oral suspension is recommended. Patients Aged 12 weeks (3 months) and Older See dosing regimens provided in Table 1 . The every 12 hour regimen is recommended as it is associated with significantly less diarrhea [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ]. Table 1: Dosing in Patients Aged 12 weeks (3 months) and Older INFECTION DOSING REGIMEN Every 12 hours Every 8 hours 200 mg/28.5 mg/5 mL or 400 mg/57 mg/5 mL oral suspension Each strength of suspension of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is available as a chewable tablet for use by older children. 125 mg/31.25 mg/5 mL or 250 mg/62.5 mg/5 mL oral suspension Otitis media Duration of therapy studied and recommended for acute otitis media is 10 days. , sinusitis, lower respiratory tract infections, and more severe infections 45 mg/kg/day every 12 hours 40 mg/kg/day every 8 hours Less severe infections 25 mg/kg/day every 12 hours 20 mg/kg/day every 8 hours Patients Weighing 40 kg or More Pediatric patients weighing 40 kg or more should be dosed according to adult recommendations. The 250 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should not be used until the child weighs at least 40 kg, due to the different amoxicillin to clavulanic acid ratios in the 250 mg/125 mg tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium (250/125) versus the 250 mg/62.5 mg chewable tablet of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium (250/62.5). Renal impairment patients with a glomerular filtration rate of < 30 mL/min should not receive the 875 mg/125 mg dose. Patients with a glomerular filtration rate of 10 to 30 mL/min should receive 500 mg/125 mg or 250 mg/125 mg every 12 hours, depending on the severity of the infection. Patients with a glomerular filtration rate less than 10 mL/min should receive 500 mg/125 mg or 250 mg/125 mg every 24 hours, depending on severity of the infection. Hemodialysis patients should receive 500 mg/125 mg or 250 mg/125 mg every 24 hours, depending on severity of the infection. Table 2: Amount of Water for Mixing Oral Suspension Strength Bottle Size Amount of Water for Reconstitution Contents of Each Teaspoonful (5 mL) 200 mg/28.5 mg/5 mL 50 mL 75 mL 100 mL 47 mL 70 mL 93 mL 200 mg amoxicillin and 28.5 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt 400 mg/57 mg/5 mL 50 mL 75 mL 100 mL 45 mL 67 mL 89 mL 400 mg amoxicillin and 57 mg of clavulanic acid as the potassium salt Note: Shake oral suspension well before using. 2.3 Pediatric Patients Based on the amoxicillin component, amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium should be dosed as follows: Neonates and Infants Aged less than 12 weeks (less than 3 months): See dosing regimens of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium provided in Table 2 below.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS History of a serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium or to other beta‑lactams (e.g., penicillins or cephalosporins). ( 4.1 ) History of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium. ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Serious Hypersensitivity Reactions Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium is contraindicated in patients with a history of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin, clavulanate or to other beta‑lactam antibacterial drugs (e.g., penicillins and cephalosporins). 4.2 Cholestatic Jaundice/Hepatic Dysfunction Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium is contraindicated in patients with a previous history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • History of a serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium or to other beta-lactams (e.g., penicillins or cephalosporins) ( 4 ) • History of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium. ( 4 ) 4.1 Serious Hypersensitivity Reactions Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is contraindicated in patients with a history of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin, clavulanate or to other beta-lactam antibacterial drugs (e.g., penicillins and cephalosporins). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • History of a serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium or to other beta‑lactams (e.g., penicillins or cephalosporins). (4.1) • History of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium. (4.2) 4.1 Serious Hypersensitivity Reactions Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is contraindicated in patients with a history of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin, clavulanate or to other beta-lactam antibacterial drugs (e.g., penicillins and cephalosporins). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS History of a serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens–Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium or to other beta–lactams (e.g., penicillins or cephalosporins). ( 4.1 ) History of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium. ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Serious Hypersensitivity Reactions Amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium is contraindicated in patients with a history of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin, clavulanate or to other beta-lactam antibacterial drugs (e.g., penicillins and cephalosporins). 4.2 Cholestatic Jaundice/Hepatic Dysfunction Amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium is contraindicated in patients with a previous history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS History of a serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to AUGMENTIN or to other beta‑lactams (e.g., penicillins or cephalosporins). ( 4.1 ) History of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with AUGMENTIN. ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Serious Hypersensitivity Reactions AUGMENTIN is contraindicated in patients with a history of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin, clavulanate or to other beta‑lactam antibacterial drugs (e.g., penicillins and cephalosporins). 4.2 Cholestatic Jaundice/Hepatic Dysfunction AUGMENTIN is contraindicated in patients with a previous history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with AUGMENTIN. ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Serious Hypersensitivity Reactions Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin, clavulanate or to other beta‑lactam antibacterial drugs (e.g., penicillins and cephalosporins). 4.2 Cholestatic Jaundice/Hepatic Dysfunction Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets are contraindicated in patients with a previous history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium. ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. ) • History of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium. ) 4.1 Serious Hypersensitivity Reactions Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium is contraindicated in patients with a history of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin, clavulanate or to other beta‑lactam antibacterial drugs (e.g., penicillins and cephalosporins). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • History of a serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium or to other beta‑lactams (e.g., penicillins or cephalosporins) (4) • History of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium. (4) 4.1 Serious Hypersensitivity Reactions Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium is contraindicated in patients with a history of serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to amoxicillin, clavulanate or to other beta-lactam antibacterial drugs (e.g., penicillins and cephalosporins).
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Co‑administration with probenecid is not recommended. ( 7.1 ) Concomitant use of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium and oral anticoagulants may increase the prolongation of prothrombin time.( 7.2 ) Co-administration with allopurinol increases the risk of rash. ( 7.3 ) Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium may reduce efficacy of oral contraceptives. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Probenecid Probenecid decreases the renal tubular secretion of amoxicillin but does not delay renal excretion of clavulanic acid. Concurrent use with Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium may result in increased and prolonged blood concentrations of amoxicillin. Co-administration of probenecid is not recommended. 7.2 Oral Anticoagulants Abnormal prolongation of prothrombin time (increased international normalized ratio [INR]) has been reported in patients receiving amoxicillin and oral anticoagulants. Appropriate monitoring should be undertaken when anticoagulants are prescribed concurrently with Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium. Adjustments in the dose of oral anticoagulants may be necessary to maintain the desired level of anticoagulation. 7.3 Allopurinol The concurrent administration of allopurinol and amoxicillin increases the incidence of rashes in patients receiving both drugs as compared to patients receiving amoxicillin alone. It is not known whether this potentiation of amoxicillin rashes is due to allopurinol or the hyperuricemia present in these patients. 7.4 Oral Contraceptives Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium may affect intestinal flora, leading to lower estrogen reabsorption and reduced efficacy of combined oral estrogen/progesterone contraceptives. 7.5 Effects on Laboratory Tests High urine concentrations of amoxicillin may result in false-positive reactions when testing for the presence of glucose in urine using CLINITEST ® , Benedict's Solution, or Fehling's Solution. Since this effect may also occur with Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium, it is recommended that glucose tests based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions be used. Following administration of amoxicillin to pregnant women, a transient decrease in plasma concentration of total conjugated estriol, estriol-glucuronide, conjugated estrone, and estradiol has been noted. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Co-administration with probenecid is not recommended. ( 7.1 ) • Concomitant use of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and oral anticoagulants may increase the prolongation of prothrombin time. ( 7.2 ) • Coadministration with allopurinol increases the risk of rash. ( 7.3 ) • Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium may reduce efficacy of oral contraceptives. Coadministration of probenecid is not recommended. 7.5 Effects on Laboratory Tests High urine concentrations of amoxicillin may result in false-positive reactions when testing for the presence of glucose in urine using CLINITEST®, Benedict’s Solution, or Fehling’s Solution. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Co‑administration with probenecid is not recommended. (7.1) • Concomitant use of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium and oral anticoagulants may increase the prolongation of prothrombin time. (7.2 ) • Co-administration with allopurinol increases the risk of rash. (7.3) • Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium may reduce efficacy of oral contraceptives. (7.4) 7.1 Probenecid Probenecid decreases the renal tubular secretion of amoxicillin but does not delay renal excretion of clavulanic acid. 7.5 Effects on Laboratory Tests High urine concentrations of amoxicillin may result in false-positive reactions when testing for the presence of glucose in urine using CLINITEST ® , Benedict’s Solution, or Fehling’s Solution. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Coadministration with probenecid is not recommended. ( 7.1 ) Concomitant use of amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium and oral anticoagulants may increase the prolongation of prothrombin time. ( 7.2 ) Coadministration with allopurinol increases the risk of rash. ( 7.3 ) Amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium may reduce efficacy of oral contraceptives. Concurrent use with amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium may result in increased and prolonged blood concentrations of amoxicillin. Appropriate monitoring should be undertaken when anticoagulants are prescribed concurrently with amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium. 7.4 Oral Contraceptives Amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium may affect intestinal flora, leading to lower estrogen reabsorption and reduced efficacy of combined oral estrogen/progesterone contraceptives. Since this effect may also occur with amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium, it is recommended that glucose tests based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions be used. ( 7.1 ) Concomitant use of AUGMENTIN and oral anticoagulants may increase the prolongation of prothrombin time.( 7.2 ) Co-administration with allopurinol increases the risk of rash. ( 7.3 ) AUGMENTIN may reduce efficacy of oral contraceptives. Concurrent use with AUGMENTIN may result in increased and prolonged blood concentrations of amoxicillin. Appropriate monitoring should be undertaken when anticoagulants are prescribed concurrently with AUGMENTIN. 7.4 Oral Contraceptives AUGMENTIN may affect intestinal flora, leading to lower estrogen reabsorption and reduced efficacy of combined oral estrogen/progesterone contraceptives. Since this effect may also occur with AUGMENTIN, it is recommended that glucose tests based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions be used. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Co-administration with probenecid is not recommended. ( 7.1 ) Concomitant use of amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets and oral anticoagulants may increase the prolongation of prothrombin time. ( 7.2 ) Co-administration with allopurinol increases the risk of rash. ( 7.3 ) Amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets may reduce efficacy of oral contraceptives. Concurrent use with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets may result in increased and prolonged blood concentrations of amoxicillin. Appropriate monitoring should be undertaken when anticoagulants are prescribed concurrently with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets. Since this effect may also occur with amoxicillin and clavulanate potassium tablets, it is recommended that glucose tests based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions be used. ( 7.1 ) • Concomitant use of Amoxicillin and Clavulanate Potassium and oral anticoagulants may increase the prolongation of prothrombin time.( 7.2 ) • Co-administration with allopurinol increases the risk of rash. (7.2 ) • Coadministration with allopurinol increases the risk of rash.

=== POVIDONE-IODINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose First aid Antiseptic Purpose: Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic Uses: Section Text First aid antiseptic to help prevent skin infection in minor cuts, scrapes and burns. For preparation of the skin prior to surgery. Helps reduce bacteria that can potentially cause skin infections. Purpose: Purpose: First aid antiseptic to help prevent skin infection in minor cuts, scrapes and burns.
Indications: Uses First aid to help prevent infection in minor cuts scrapes burns Use: Antiseptic skin preparation Use Antiseptic skin preparation Uses For preparation of skin and mucous membranes prior to surgery 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection is indicated in adults for the production of local or regional anesthesia or analgesia for surgery, dental and oral surgery procedures, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and for obstetrical procedures. Specific concentrations and presentations of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection are recommended for each type of block indicated to produce local or regional anesthesia or analgesia [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection contains bupivacaine, an amide local anesthetic. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection is indicated in adults for the production of local or regional anesthesia or analgesia for surgery, dental and oral surgery procedures, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and for obstetrical procedures. For each type of block indicated to produce local or regional anesthesia or analgesia, specific concentrations and presentations are recommended. ( 1 , 2.2 ) Limitations of Use Not all blocks are indicated for use with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection given clinically significant risks associated with use. ( 1 , 2.2 , 4 , 5.1 , 5.5 , 5.7 , 5.9 ) Limitations of Use Not all blocks are indicated for use with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection given clinically significant risks associated with use [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.5 , 5.7 , 5.9) ] . INDICATIONS AND USAGE Intramuscular Where oral therapy is not feasible, injectable corticosteroid therapy, including triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension is indicated for intramuscular use as follows: Allergic states: Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment in asthma, atopic dermatitis, contact dermatitis, drug hypersensitivity reactions, perennial or seasonal allergic rhinitis, serum sickness, transfusion reactions. Dermatologic diseases: Bullous dermatitis herpetiformis, exfoliative erythroderma, mycosis fungoides, pemphigus, severe erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson syndrome). Endocrine disorders: Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the drug of choice; synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable; in infancy, mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance), congenital adrenal hyperplasia, hypercalcemia associated with cancer, nonsuppurative thyroiditis. Gastrointestinal diseases: To tide the patient over a critical period of the disease in regional enteritis and ulcerative colitis. Hematologic disorders: Acquired (autoimmune) hemolytic anemia, Diamond-Blackfan anemia, pure red cell aplasia, selected cases of secondary thrombocytopenia. Miscellaneous: Trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement, tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy. Neoplastic diseases: For the palliative management of leukemias and lymphomas. Nervous system: Acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis; cerebral edema associated with primary or metastatic brain tumor or craniotomy. Ophthalmic diseases: Sympathetic ophthalmia, temporal arteritis, uveitis and ocular inflammatory conditions unresponsive to topical corticosteroids. Renal diseases: To induce diuresis or remission of proteinuria in idiopathic nephrotic syndrome or that due to lupus erythematosus. Respiratory diseases: Berylliosis, fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy, idiopathic eosinophilic pneumonias, symptomatic sarcoidosis. Rheumatic disorders: As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in acute gouty arthritis; acute rheumatic carditis; ankylosing spondylitis; psoriatic arthritis; rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low-dose maintenance therapy). For the treatment of dermatomyositis, polymyositis and systemic lupus erythematosus. Intra-Articular The intra-articular or soft tissue administration of triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension is indicated as adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in acute gouty arthritis, acute and subacute bursitis, acute nonspecific tenosynovitis, epicondylitis, rheumatoid arthritis, synovitis of osteoarthritis. For use as an first aid antiseptic pre-operative skin preperation Use • For preparation prior to surgery • Helps to reduce bacteria that can potentially cause skin infection Uses Antiseptic cleanser to help prevent infection in minor cuts, scrapes and burns. For preparation of the skin prior to surgery. Helps reduce bacteria that can potentially cause skin infection. Use For preparation of the skin prior to surgery and helps reduce bacteria that can potentially cause skin infection. Topical first aid antiseptic to help reduce the risk of skin infection in minor cuts, scrapes, and burns. Use for antiseptic skin preparation INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lidocaine hydrochloride injection is indicated for production of local or regional anesthesia by infiltration techniques such as percutaneous injection and intravenous regional anesthesia by peripheral nerve block techniques such as brachial plexus and intercostal and by central neural techniques such as lumbar and caudal epidural blocks, when the accepted procedures for these techniques as described in standard textbooks are observed.
Dosage: Directions clean the affected area spray a small amount of the product on the area 1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage if bandaged, let dry first Directions: Apply locally as needed. Directions Apply locally as needed. Directions open pouch at tear notch use sponge sticks to prep desired area 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Not for intrathecal use. ( 2.1 ) Avoid use of solutions containing antimicrobial preservatives (i.e., multiple-dose vials) for epidural or caudal anesthesia. ( 2.1 ) See full prescribing information for: - Recommended concentrations and dosages of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection according to type of block. ( 2.2 ) - Additional dosage and administration information pertaining to use in epidural anesthesia and use in ophthalmic surgery. ( 2.3 , 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection is not for intrathecal use. Discard unused portions of solution not containing preservatives, i.e., those supplied in single-dose vials, following initial use. Visually inspect this product for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection are clear, colorless solutions. Do not administer solutions which are discolored or contain particulate matter. Mixing or the prior or intercurrent use of any other local anesthetic with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection is not recommended because of insufficient data on the clinical use of such mixtures. Administration Precautions Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Injection are to be administered in carefully adjusted dosages by or under the supervision of experienced clinicians who are well versed in the diagnosis and management of dose-related toxicity and other acute emergencies which might arise from the block to be employed. Use Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection only if the following are immediately available: oxygen, cardiopulmonary resuscitative equipment and drugs, and the personnel resources needed for proper management of toxic reactions and related emergencies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6) , Overdosage (10) ] . The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. Monitor for neurologic and cardiovascular effects related to local anesthetic systemic toxicity when additional local anesthetics are administered with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Drug Interactions (7.1) , Overdosage (10) ] . Aspirate for blood or cerebrospinal fluid (where applicable) prior to injecting Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection, both the initial dose and all subsequent doses, to avoid intravascular or intrathecal injection. However, a negative aspiration for blood or cerebrospinal fluid does not ensure against an intravascular or intrathecal injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . Avoid rapid injection of a large volume of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection and use fractional (incremental) doses when feasible. During major regional nerve blocks, such as those of the brachial plexus or lower extremity, the patient should have an indwelling intravenous catheter to assure adequate intravenous access. The lowest dosage of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection that results in effective anesthesia should be used to avoid high plasma levels and serious adverse reactions. Perform careful and constant monitoring of cardiovascular and respiratory (adequacy of oxygenation and ventilation) vital signs and the patient's level of consciousness after each local anesthetic injection. 2.2 Recommended Concentrations and Dosages of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection The dosage of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection administered varies with the anesthetic procedure, the area to be anesthetized, the vascularity of the tissues, the number of neuronal segments to be blocked, the depth of anesthesia and degree of muscle relaxation required, the duration of anesthesia desired, individual tolerance, and the physical condition of the patient. Administer the smallest dosage and concentration required to produce the desired result. The types of block and recommended Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection concentrations are shown in Table 1. Table 1. Types of Block and Recommended Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Concentrations Type of Block Bupivacaine Hydrochloride injection 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL)* Local infiltration ✓ Peripheral nerve block ✓ ✓ Retrobulbar block ✓ Sympathetic block ✓ Caudal block ✓ ✓ Lumbar epidural block ✓ ✓ ✓ (not for obstetrical anesthesia) Epidural test dose Dental block * Bupivacaine Hydrochloride injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) is not recommended for nonobstetrical surgical procedures in pregnant patients. ✓= indicated use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. At recommended dosages, Bupivacaine Hydrochloride produces complete sensory block, but the effect on motor function differs among the three concentrations. Table 2 provides information on the expected effect on motor function for the three concentrations. Table 2. Types of Block and Recommended Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Concentrations Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Concentration Motor Function 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) When used for caudal, epidural, or peripheral nerve block, produces incomplete motor block. Should be used for operations in which muscle relaxation is not important, or when another means of providing muscle relaxation is used concurrently. Onset of action may be slower than with the 0.5% (5 mg/mL) or 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) solutions. 0.5% (5 mg/mL) Provides motor blockade for caudal, epidural, or nerve block, but muscle relaxation may be inadequate for operations in which complete muscle relaxation is essential. 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) Produces complete motor block. Most useful for epidural block in abdominal operations requiring complete muscle relaxation, and for retrobulbar anesthesia. Not for obstetrical anesthesia. The duration of anesthesia with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection is such that for most indications, a single dose is sufficient. The maximum dosage limit within the recommended dosage range must be individualized in each case after evaluating the size and physical status of the patient, as well as the anticipated rate of systemic absorption from a particular injection site. The dosages in Table 3 are recommended as a guide for use in the average adult. These doses may be repeated once every three hours. Do not exceed a total daily dosage of 400 mg in 24 hours. The duration of anesthetic effect may be prolonged by the addition of epinephrine. Table 3. Recommended Concentrations and Doses of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection in Adults Type of Block Concentration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Each Dose Motor Block With continuous (intermittent) techniques, repeat doses increase the degree of motor block. The first repeat dose of 0.5% (5 mg/mL) may produce complete motor block. Intercostal nerve block with 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) also may produce complete motor block for intra-thoracic and upper intra-abdominal surgery. mL mg of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Local infiltration 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) Solutions with or without epinephrine (i.e., applies to Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection. Up to 70 (without epinephrine) Up to 175 (without epinephrine) ― Up to 90 (with epinephrine) Up to 225 (with epinephrine) Peripheral nerve block 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 5–35 (without epinephrine) 25–175 (without epinephrine) moderate to complete 5–45 (with epinephrine) 25–225 (with epinephrine) 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 5–70 (without epinephrine) 12.5–175 (without epinephrine) moderate to complete 5–90 (with epinephrine) 12.5–225 (with epinephrine) Retrobulbar block [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) 2–4 15–30 complete Sympathetic block 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 20–50 50–125 ― Caudal block [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 15–30 75–150 moderate to complete 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 15–30 37.5–75 moderate Lumbar epidural block [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) For single-dose use; not for intermittent epidural technique. 10–20 75–150 complete 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 10–20 50–100 moderate to complete 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 10–20 25–50 partial to moderate 2.3 Use in Epidural Anesthesia During epidural administration, administer Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection, 0.5% (5 mg/mL) and 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) solutions in incremental doses of 3 mL to 5 mL with sufficient time between doses to detect toxic manifestations of unintentional intravascular or intrathecal injection. Administer injections slowly, with frequent aspirations before and during the injection to avoid intravascular injection. Perform syringe aspirations before and during each supplemental injection in continuous (intermittent) catheter techniques. In obstetrics, use ONLY the 0.5% (5 mg/mL) and 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) concentrations of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]; incremental doses of 3 mL to 5 mL of the 0.5% (5 mg/mL) solution not exceeding 50 mg to 100 mg at any dosing interval are recommended. Repeat doses should be preceded by a test dose containing epinephrine if not clinically contraindicated. Use only the single-dose vials for caudal or epidural anesthesia; avoid use of the multiple-dose vials for these procedures, which contain a preservative [see Dosage and Administration (2.1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9) ] . 2.6 Use in Ophthalmic Surgery When Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) is used for retrobulbar block, complete corneal anesthesia usually precedes onset of clinically acceptable external ocular muscle akinesia. Therefore, presence of akinesia rather than anesthesia alone should determine readiness of the patient for surgery [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15) ] . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION General NOTE: CONTAINS BENZYL ALCOHOL (see PRECAUTIONS ). The initial dose of triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension may vary from 2.5 mg to 100 mg per day depending on the specific disease entity being treated (see Dosage section below). However, in certain overwhelming, acute, life-threatening situations, administration in dosages exceeding the usual dosages may be justified and may be in multiples of the oral dosages. IT SHOULD BE EMPHASIZED THAT DOSAGE REQUIREMENTS ARE VARIABLE AND MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED ON THE BASIS OF THE DISEASE UNDER TREATMENT AND THE RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT. After a favorable response is noted, the proper maintenance dosage should be determined by decreasing the initial drug dosage in small decrements at appropriate time intervals until the lowest dosage which will maintain an adequate clinical response is reached. Situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process, the patient’s individual drug responsiveness, and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease entity under treatment. In this latter situation it may be necessary to increase the dosage of the corticosteroid for a period of time consistent with the patient’s condition. If after long-term therapy the drug is to be stopped, it is recommended that it be withdrawn gradually rather than abruptly. Dosage SYSTEMIC The suggested initial dose is 60 mg, injected deeply into the gluteal muscle . Atrophy of subcutaneous fat may occur if the injection is not properly given. Dosage is usually adjusted within the range of 40 mg to 80 mg, depending upon patient response and duration of relief. However, some patients may be well controlled on doses as low as 20 mg or less. Hay fever or pollen asthma: Patients with hay fever or pollen asthma who are not responding to pollen administration and other conventional therapy may obtain a remission of symptoms lasting throughout the pollen season after a single injection of 40 mg to 100 mg. In the treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis, daily doses of 160 mg of triamcinolone for a week followed by 64 mg every other day for one month are recommended (see PRECAUTIONS: Neuro-Psychiatric ). In pediatric patients, the initial dose of triamcinolone may vary depending on the specific disease entity being treated. The range of initial doses is 0.11 to 1.6 mg/kg/day in 3 or 4 divided doses (3.2 to 48 mg/m 2 bsa/day). For the purpose of comparison, the following is the equivalent milligram dosage of the various glucocorticoids: Cortisone, 25 Triamcinolone, 4 Hydrocortisone, 20 Paramethasone, 2 Prednisolone, 5 Betamethasone, 0.75 Prednisone, 5 Dexamethasone, 0.75 Methylprednisolone, 4 These dose relationships apply only to oral or intravenous administration of these compounds. When these substances or their derivatives are injected intramuscularly or into joint spaces, their relative properties may be greatly altered. LOCAL Intra-articular administration: A single local injection of triamcinolone acetonide is frequently sufficient, but several injections may be needed for adequate relief of symptoms. Initial dose: 2.5 mg to 5 mg for smaller joints and from 5 mg to 15 mg for larger joints, depending on the specific disease entity being treated. For adults, doses up to 10 mg for smaller areas and up to 40 mg for larger areas have usually been sufficient. Single injections into several joints, up to a total of 80 mg, have been given. Administration GENERAL STRICT ASEPTIC TECHNIQUE IS MANDATORY. The vial should be shaken before use to ensure a uniform suspension. Prior to withdrawal, the suspension should be inspected for clumping or granular appearance (agglomeration). An agglomerated product results from exposure to freezing temperatures and should not be used. After withdrawal, triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension should be injected without delay to prevent settling in the syringe. Careful technique should be employed to avoid the possibility of entering a blood vessel or introducing infection. SYSTEMIC For systemic therapy, injection should be made deeply into the gluteal muscle (see WARNINGS ). For adults, a minimum needle length of 1½ inches is recommended. In obese patients, a longer needle may be required. Use alternative sites for subsequent injections. LOCAL For treatment of joints, the usual intra-articular injection technique should be followed. If an excessive amount of synovial fluid is present in the joint, some, but not all, should be aspirated to aid in the relief of pain and to prevent undue dilution of the steroid. With intra-articular administration, prior use of a local anesthetic may often be desirable. Care should be taken with this kind of injection, particularly in the deltoid region, to avoid injecting the suspension into the tissues surrounding the site, since this may lead to tissue atrophy. In treating acute nonspecific tenosynovitis, care should be taken to ensure that the injection of the corticosteroid is made into the tendon sheath rather than the tendon substance. Epicondylitis may be treated by infiltrating the preparation into the area of greatest tenderness. Directions Povidone iodine: Tear at notch, remove applicator, use only once. As a first aid antiseptic clean affected area apply 1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage, if bandaged let dry. For preoperative patient skin preparation clean area apply to operative site prior to surgery using the applicator Directions Clean the area. Apply product to the operative site prior to surgery using sponge sticks to prep desired area. Directions Tear at notch Remove applicator Use only once As a first aid antispetic Clean affected area apply 1-3 times daily May be covered with a sterile bandage If bandaged, let dry first. For preoperative patient skin preparation Clean area Apply to operative site prior to surgery using applicator Directions For preparation prior to surgery Clean the treatment area Remove swab by stick Apply to the operative site prior to surgery. Clean the treatment area Apply a small amount on the treatment area 1-3 times daily May be covered with a sterile bandage Let dry before covering. For use as a first aid antiseptic Directions apply locally as needed DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Table 1 (Recommended Dosages) summarizes the recommended volumes and concentrations of lidocaine hydrochloride injection for various types of anesthetic procedures. The dosages suggested in this table are for normal healthy adults and refer to the use of epinephrine-free solutions. When larger volumes are required, only solutions containing epinephrine should be used except in those cases where vasopressor drugs may be contraindicated. There have been adverse event reports of chondrolysis in patients receiving intra-articular infusions of local anesthetics following arthroscopic and other surgical procedures. Lidocaine hydrochloride injection is not approved for this use (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). These recommended doses serve only as a guide to the amount of anesthetic required for most routine procedures. The actual volumes and concentrations to be used depend on a number of factors such as type and extent of surgical procedure, depth of anesthesia and degree of muscular relaxation required, duration of anesthesia required, and the physical condition of the patient. In all cases the lowest concentration and smallest dose that will produce the desired result should be given. Dosages should be reduced for children and for the elderly and debilitated patients and patients with cardiac and/or liver disease. The onset of anesthesia, the duration of anesthesia and the degree of muscular relaxation are proportional to the volume and concentration (i.e., total dose) of local anesthetic used. Thus, an increase in volume and concentration of lidocaine hydrochloride injection will decrease the onset of anesthesia, prolong the duration of anesthesia, provide a greater degree of muscular relaxation and increase the segmental spread of anesthesia. However, increasing the volume and concentration of lidocaine hydrochloride injection may result in a more profound fall in blood pressure when used in epidural anesthesia. Although the incidence of side effects with lidocaine hydrochloride is quite low, caution should be exercised when employing large volumes and concentrations, since the incidence of side effects is directly proportional to the total dose of local anesthetic agent injected. Epidural Anesthesia For epidural anesthesia the following dosage form of lidocaine hydrochloride injection is recommended: 1% without epinephrine 30 mL single dose vials Although this solution is intended specifically for epidural anesthesia, it may also be used for infiltration and peripheral nerve block, provided it is employed as a single dose unit. This solution contains no bacteriostatic agent. In epidural anesthesia, the dosage varies with the number of dermatomes to be anesthetized (generally 2 to 3 mL of the indicated concentration per dermatome). Caudal and Lumbar Epidural Block As a precaution against the adverse experience sometimes observed following unintentional penetration of the subarachnoid space, a test dose such as 2 to 3 mL of 1.5% lidocaine hydrochloride should be administered at least 5 minutes prior to injecting the total volume required for a lumbar or caudal epidural block. The test dose should be repeated if the patient is moved in a manner that may have displaced the catheter. Epinephrine, if contained in the test dose (10 to 15 mcg have been suggested), may serve as a warning of unintentional intravascular injection. If injected into a blood vessel, this amount of epinephrine is likely to produce a transient “epinephrine response” within 45 seconds, consisting of an increase in heart rate and systolic blood pressure, circumoral pallor, palpitations and nervousness in the unsedated patient. The sedated patient may exhibit only a pulse rate increase of 20 or more beats per minute for 15 or more seconds. Patients on beta blockers may not manifest changes in heart rate, but blood pressure monitoring can detect an evanescent rise in systolic blood pressure. Adequate time should be allowed for onset of anesthesia after administration of each test dose. The rapid injection of a large volume of lidocaine hydrochloride injection through the catheter should be avoided, and, when feasible, fractional doses should be administered. In the event of the known injection of a large volume of local anesthetic solution into the subarachnoid space, after suitable resuscitation and if the catheter is in place, consider attempting the recovery of drug by draining a moderate amount of cerebrospinal fluid (such as 10 mL) through the epidural catheter.
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Warnings: Do not use if allergic to iodine For external use only Do not use in eyes Avoid pooling beneath patient. Prolonged exposure to wet solution may cause skiin irritation. Warnings For external use only. Do not use if allergic to iodine Ask a doctor before use if injuries are deep wounds, puncture wounds, or serious burn Stop use and ask a doctor if infection occurs or if redness, irritation, swelling or pain persists or increases Keep out of reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, seek professional assistance or consult a poison control center Immediately Avoid excessive heat. Store at room temperature. Warnings For external use only Avoid use on persons allergic to iodine WARNINGS Serious Neurologic Adverse Reactions with Epidural Administration Serious neurologic events, some resulting in death, have been reported with epidural injection of corticosteroids (see WARNINGS: Neurologic ). Specific events reported include, but are not limited to, spinal cord infarction, paraplegia, quadriplegia, cortical blindness, and stroke. These serious neurologic events have been reported with and without use of fluoroscopy. The safety and effectiveness of epidural administration of corticosteroids have not been established, and corticosteroids are not approved for this use. General Exposure to excessive amounts of benzyl alcohol has been associated with toxicity (hypotension, metabolic acidosis), particularly in neonates, and an increased incidence of kernicterus, particularly in small preterm infants. There have been rare reports of deaths, primarily in preterm infants, associated with exposure to excessive amounts of benzyl alcohol. The amount of benzyl alcohol from medications is usually considered negligible compared to that received in flush solutions containing benzyl alcohol. Administration of high dosages of medications containing this preservative must take into account the total amount of benzyl alcohol administered. The amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occur is not known. If the patient requires more than the recommended dosages or other medications containing this preservative, the practitioner must consider the daily metabolic load of benzyl alcohol from these combined sources (see PRECAUTIONS: Pediatric Use ). Rare instances of anaphylaxis have occurred in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Cases of serious anaphylaxis, including death, have been reported in individuals receiving triamcinolone acetonide injection, regardless of the route of administration. Because triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension is a suspension, it should not be administered intravenously. Unless a deep intramuscular injection is given, local atrophy is likely to occur (for recommendations on injection techniques, see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Due to the significantly higher incidence of local atrophy when the material is injected into the deltoid area, this injection site should be avoided in favor of the gluteal area. Increased dosage of rapidly acting corticosteroids is indicated in patients on corticosteroid therapy subjected to any unusual stress before, during, and after the stressful situation. Triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension is a long-acting preparation, and is not suitable for use in acute stress situations. To avoid drug-induced adrenal insufficiency, supportive dosage may be required in times of stress (such as trauma, surgery, or severe illness) both during treatment with triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension and for a year afterwards. Results from one multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled study with methylprednisolone hemisuccinate, an intravenous corticosteroid, showed an increase in early (at 2 weeks) and late (at 6 months) mortality in patients with cranial trauma who were determined not to have other clear indications for corticosteroid treatment. High doses of systemic corticosteroids, including triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension should not be used for the treatment of traumatic brain injury. Cardio-Renal Average and large doses of corticosteroids can cause elevation of blood pressure, salt and water retention and increased excretion of potassium. These effects are less likely to occur with the synthetic derivatives except when they are used in large doses. Dietary salt restriction and potassium supplementation may be necessary (see PRECAUTIONS ). All corticosteroids increase calcium excretion. Literature reports suggest an apparent association between use of corticosteroids and left ventricular free wall rupture after a recent myocardial infarction; therefore, therapy with corticosteroids should be used with great caution in these patients. Endocrine Corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment. Metabolic clearance of corticosteroids is decreased in hypothyroid patients and increased in hyperthyroid patients. Changes in thyroid status of the patient may necessitate adjustment in dosage. Infections General Patients who are on corticosteroids are more susceptible to infections than are healthy individuals. There may be decreased resistance and inability to localize infection when corticosteroids are used. Infection with any pathogen (viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan, or helminthic) in any location of the body may be associated with the use of corticosteroids alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents. These infections may be mild to severe. With increasing doses of corticosteroids, the rate of occurrence of infectious complications increases. Corticosteroids may also mask some signs of current infection. Fungal Infections Corticosteroids may exacerbate systemic fungal infections and therefore should not be used in the presence of such infections unless they are needed to control drug reactions. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions : Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents ). Special Pathogens Latent disease may be activated or there may be an exacerbation of intercurrent infections due to pathogens, including those caused by Amoeba, Candida, Cryptococcus, Mycobacterium, Nocardia, Pneumocystis, or Toxoplasma . It is recommended that latent amebiasis or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating corticosteroid therapy in any patient who has spent time in the tropics or in any patient with unexplained diarrhea. Similarly, corticosteroids should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides (threadworm) infestation. In such patients, corticosteroid-induced immunosuppression may lead to Strongyloides hyperinfection and dissemination with widespread larval migration, often accompanied by severe enterocolitis and potentially fatal gram-negative septicemia. Corticosteroids should not be used in cerebral malaria. Tuberculosis The use of corticosteroids in patients with active tuberculosis should be restricted to those cases of fulminating or disseminated tuberculosis in which the corticosteroid is used for the management of the disease in conjunction with an appropriate anti-tuberculosis regimen. If corticosteroids are indicated in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, close observation is necessary as reactivation of the disease may occur. During prolonged corticosteroid therapy, these patients should receive chemoprophylaxis. Vaccination Administration of live or live, attenuated vaccines is contraindicated in patients receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids. Killed or inactivated vaccines may be administered. However, the response to such vaccines cannot be predicted. Immunization procedures may be undertaken in patients who are receiving corticosteroids as replacement therapy, e.g., for Addison’s disease. Viral Infections Chicken pox and measles can have a more serious or even fatal course in pediatric and adult patients on corticosteroids. In pediatric and adult patients who have not had these diseases, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If exposed to chicken pox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If exposed to measles, prophylaxis with immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated (see the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information). If chicken pox develops, treatment with antiviral agents should be considered. Neurologic Epidural and intrathecal administration of this product is not recommended. Reports of serious medical events, including death, have been associated with epidural and intrathecal routes of corticosteroid administration (see ADVERSE REACTIONS : Gastrointestinal and Neurologic/Psychiatric ). Ophthalmic Use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts, glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves, and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to bacteria, fungi, or viruses. The use of oral corticosteroids is not recommended in the treatment of optic neuritis and may lead to an increase in the risk of new episodes. Corticosteroids should not be used in active ocular herpes simplex. Adequate studies to demonstrate the safety of triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension use by intraturbinal, subconjunctival, sub-Tenons, retrobulbar and intraocular (intravitreal) injections have not been performed. Endophthalmitis, eye inflammation, increased intraocular pressure and visual disturbances including vision loss have been reported with intravitreal administration. Administration of triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension intraocularly or into the nasal turbinates is not recommended. Intraocular injection of corticosteroid formulations containing benzyl alcohol, such as triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension is not recommended because of potential toxicity from the benzyl alcohol. Warnings: Section Text FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY Do not apply to persons allergic to iodine Do not use • in the eyes Ask a doctor before use if injuries are • deep wounds • puncture wounds • serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation and redness develop • condition persists for more than 72 hours • infection occurs Avoid pooling beneath the patient. Prolonged exposure to wet solution may cause skin irritation. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed or gets in eyes, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Do not use in the eyes on individuals who are allergic or sensitive to iodine over large areas of the body as a first aid antiseptic longer than one week unless directed by a doctor. Consult a doctor in case of deep or puncture wounds, animal bites, or serious burns. Stop use and consult a doctor if irritation or redness develops if the condition persists or gets worse infection occurs. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Avoid pooling beneath patient do not use if allergic to lodine in the eye Stop use and ask a doctor if redness, irritation, swelling or pain persists or increases infection occurs Keep out of reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, seek professional assistance or consult a poison control center immediately. Ask a doctor before use if injuries are deep or puncture wounds serious burns WARNINGS LIDOCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE INJECTION FOR INFILTRATION AND NERVE BLOCK SHOULD BE EMPLOYED ONLY BY CLINICIANS WHO ARE WELL VERSED IN DIAGNOSIS AND MANAGEMENT OF DOSE-RELATED TOXICITY AND OTHER ACUTE EMERGENCIES THAT MIGHT ARISE FROM THE BLOCK TO BE EMPLOYED AND THEN ONLY AFTER ENSURING THE IMMEDIATE AVAILABILITY OF OXYGEN, OTHER RESUSCITATIVE DRUGS, CARDIOPULMONARY EQUIPMENT AND THE PERSONNEL NEEDED FOR PROPER MANAGEMENT OF TOXIC REACTIONS AND RELATED EMERGENCIES (see also ADVERSE REACTIONS and PRECAUTIONS ). DELAY IN PROPER MANAGEMENT OF DOSE-RELATED TOXICITY, UNDERVENTILATION FROM ANY CAUSE AND/OR ALTERED SENSITIVITY MAY LEAD TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF ACIDOSIS, CARDIAC ARREST AND, POSSIBLY, DEATH. Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use. Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia, patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia, cardiac or pulmonary compromise, infants under 6 months of age, and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition. If local anesthetics must be used in these patients, close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended. Signs of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure, and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and/or abnormal coloration of the blood. Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise; therefore, immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects, including seizures, coma, arrhythmias, and death. Discontinue lidocaine hydrochloride and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of the signs and symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care, i.e., oxygen therapy, hydration. A more severe clinical presentation may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. Intra-articular infusions of local anesthetics following arthroscopic and other surgical procedures is an unapproved use, and there have been post-marketing reports of chondrolysis in patients receiving such infusions. The majority of reported cases of chondrolysis have involved the shoulder joint; cases of gleno-humeral chondrolysis have been described in pediatric and adult patients following intra-articular infusions of local anesthetics with and without epinephrine for periods of 48 to 72 hours. There is insufficient information to determine whether shorter infusion periods are not associated with these findings. The time of onset of symptoms, such as joint pain, stiffness and loss of motion can be variable, but may begin as early as the 2 nd month after surgery. Currently, there is no effective treatment for chondrolysis; patients who experienced chondrolysis have required additional diagnostic and therapeutic procedures and some required arthroplasty or shoulder replacement. To avoid intravascular injection, aspiration should be performed before the local anesthetic solution is injected. The needle must be repositioned until no return of blood can be elicited by aspiration. Note, however, that the absence of blood in the syringe does not guarantee that intravascular injection has been avoided. Anaphylactic reactions may occur following administration of lidocaine hydrochloride (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). In the case of severe reaction, discontinue the use of the drug. Warnings: FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection is contraindicated in: obstetrical paracervical block anesthesia. Its use in this technique has resulted in fetal bradycardia and death. intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier Block) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. patients with a known hypersensitivity to bupivacaine or to any local anesthetic agent of the amide-type or to other components of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection. Obstetrical paracervical block anesthesia. ( 4 ) Intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier Block). ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to bupivacaine or to any local anesthetic agent of the amide-type or to other components of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection. ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any components of this product (see WARNINGS: General ). Intramuscular corticosteroid preparations are contraindicated for idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura. CONTRAINDICATIONS Lidocaine hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Local Anesthetics : The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. Monitor for neurologic and cardiovascular effects when additional local anesthetics are administered. ( 7.1 ) Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia : Patients are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to nitrates, nitrites, local anesthetics, antineoplastic agents, antibiotics, antimalarials, anticonvulsants, and other drugs. ( 7.5 ) Potent Inhalation Anesthetics : Serious dose-related cardiac arrhythmias may occur if preparations containing a vasoconstrictor such as epinephrine are used in patients during or following the administration of potent inhalation anesthetics. ( 7.6 ) 7.1 Local Anesthetics The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. If coadministration of other local anesthetics with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection cannot be avoided, monitor patients for neurologic and cardiovascular effects related to local anesthetic systemic toxicity [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 7.5 Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia Patients who are administered Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following drugs, which could include other local anesthetics [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia: Class Examples Nitrates/Nitrites nitric oxide, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, nitrous oxide Local anesthetics articaine, benzocaine, bupivacaine, lidocaine, mepivacaine, prilocaine, procaine, ropivacaine, tetracaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide, flutamide, hydroxyurea, ifosfamide, rasburicase Antibiotics dapsone, nitrofurantoin, para-aminosalicylic acid, sulfonamides Antimalarials chloroquine, primaquine Anticonvulsants phenobarbital, phenytoin, sodium valproate Other drugs acetaminophen, metoclopramide, quinine, sulfasalazine 7.6 Potent Inhalation Anesthetics Serious dose-related cardiac arrhythmias may occur if preparations containing a vasoconstrictor such as epinephrine are used in patients during or following the administration of potent inhalation anesthetics. Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide: Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents: When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (i.e. amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics: Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance. Anticholinesterases: Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, oral: Co-administration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics: Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular drugs: Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine: Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine: Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. CYP 3A4 inhibitors: Triamcinolone acetonide is a substrate of CYP3A4. Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Co-administration of other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, telithromycin, cobicistat-containing products) with triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension may cause increased plasma concentration of triamcinolone leading to adverse reactions (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving triamcinolone acetonide and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) (see WARNINGS, Endocrine and PRECAUTIONS, Endocrine ). Consider the benefit-risk of concomitant use and monitor for systemic corticosteroid side effects. Digitalis glycosides: Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, including oral contraceptives: Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic enzyme inducers (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin): Drugs which induce hepatic microsomal drug metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs): Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Skin tests: Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Vaccines: Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS: Infections: Vaccination ). Clinically Significant Drug Interactions The administration of local anesthetic solutions containing epinephrine or norepinephrine to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. Phenothiazines and butyrophenones may reduce or reverse the pressor effect of epinephrine. Concurrent use of these agents should generally be avoided. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful patient monitoring is essential. Concurrent administration of vasopressor drugs (for the treatment of hypotension related to obstetric blocks) and ergot-type oxytocic drugs may cause severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents.

=== BUSPIRONE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Buspirone hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or the short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety. Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic. The efficacy of buspirone hydrochloride tablets has been demonstrated in controlled clinical trials of outpatients whose diagnosis roughly corresponds to Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD). Many of the patients enrolled in these studies also had coexisting depressive symptoms and buspirone hydrochloride tablets relieved anxiety in the presence of these coexisting depressive symptoms. The patients evaluated in these studies had experienced symptoms for periods of 1 month to over 1 year prior to the study, with an average symptom duration of 6 months. Generalized Anxiety Disorder (300.02) is described in the American Psychiatric Association’s Diagnostic and Statistical Manual, III 1 as follows: Generalized, persistent anxiety (of at least 1 month continual duration), manifested by symptoms from three of the four following categories: 1. Motor tension: shakiness, jitteriness, jumpiness, trembling, tension, muscle aches, fatigability, inability to relax, eyelid twitch, furrowed brow, strained face, fidgeting, restlessness, easy startle. 2. Autonomic hyperactivity: sweating, heart pounding or racing, cold, clammy hands, dry mouth, dizziness, lightheadedness, paresthesias (tingling in hands or feet), upset stomach, hot or cold spells, frequent urination, diarrhea, discomfort in the pit of the stomach, lump in the throat, flushing, pallor, high resting pulse and respiration rate. 3. Apprehensive expectation: anxiety, worry, fear, rumination, and anticipation of misfortune to self or others. 4. Vigilance and scanning: hyperattentiveness resulting in distractibility, difficulty in concentrating, insomnia, feeling “on edge,” irritability, impatience. The above symptoms would not be due to another mental disorder, such as a depressive disorder or schizophrenia. However, mild depressive symptoms are common in GAD. The effectiveness of buspirone hydrochloride tablets in long-term use, that is, for more than 3 to 4 weeks, has not been demonstrated in controlled trials. There is no body of evidence available that systematically addresses the appropriate duration of treatment for GAD. However, in a study of long-term use, 264 patients were treated with buspirone hydrochloride tablets for 1 year without ill effect. Therefore, the physician who elects to use buspirone hydrochloride tablets for extended periods should periodically reassess the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Buspirone hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the management of anxiety disorder or the short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety. Generalized Anxiety Disorder (300.02) is described in the American Psychiatric Association's Diagnostic and Statistical Manual, III 1 as follows: Generalized, persistent anxiety (of at least 1 month continual duration), manifested by symptoms from three of the four following categories: 1. Vigilance and scanning: hyperattentiveness resulting in distractibility, difficulty in concentrating, insomnia, feeling "on edge," irritability, impatience. However, in a study of long- term use, 264 patients were treated with buspirone hydrochloride tablets for 1 year without ill effect. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Buspirone hydrochloride tablets, USP are indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or the short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety. The efficacy of buspirone hydrochloride tablets, USP has been demonstrated in controlled clinical trials of outpatients whose diagnosis roughly corresponds to Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD). Many of the patients enrolled in these studies also had coexisting depressive symptoms and buspirone hydrochloride tablets, USP relieved anxiety in the presence of these coexisting depressive symptoms. The effectiveness of buspirone hydrochloride tablets, USP in long-term use, that is, for more than 3 to 4 weeks, has not been demonstrated in controlled trials. However, in a study of long-term use, 264 patients were treated with buspirone hydrochloride tablets, USP for 1 year without ill effect. Therefore, the physician who elects to use buspirone hydrochloride tablets, USP for extended periods should periodically reassess the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. Generalized Anxiety Disorder (300.02) is described in the American Psychiatric Association's Diagnostic and Statistical Manual, III 1 as follows: Generalized, persistent anxiety (of at least 1 month continual duration), manifested by symptoms from three of the four following categories: Motor tension: shakiness, jitteriness, jumpiness, trembling, tension, muscle aches, fatigability, inability to relax, eyelid twitch, furrowed brow, strained face, fidgeting, restlessness, easy startle. The efficacy of buspirone hydrochloride tablets have been demonstrated in controlled clinical trials of outpatients whose diagnosis roughly corresponds to Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD). The efficacy of buspirone has been demonstrated in controlled clinical trials of outpatients whose diagnosis roughly corresponds to Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD). Many of the patients enrolled in these studies also had coexisting depressive symptoms and buspirone relieved anxiety in the presence of these coexisting depressive symptoms. Vigilance and scanning: hyperattentiveness resulting in distractibility, difficulty in concentrating, insomnia, feeling "on edge", irritability, impatience. The effectiveness of buspirone in long-term use, that is, for more than 3 to 4 weeks, has not been demonstrated in controlled trials. However, in a study of long-term use, 264 patients were treated with buspirone for 1 year without ill effect. Therefore, the physician who elects to use buspirone for extended periods should periodically reassess the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended initial dose is 15 mg daily (7.5 mg b.i.d.). To achieve an optimal therapeutic response, at intervals of 2 to 3 days the dosage may be increased 5 mg per day, as needed. The maximum daily dosage should not exceed 60 mg per day. In clinical trials allowing dose titration, divided doses of 20 to 30 mg per day were commonly employed. The bioavailability of buspirone is increased when given with food as compared to the fasted state (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Consequently, patients should take buspirone in a consistent manner with regard to the timing of dosing; either always with or always without food. When buspirone is to be given with a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, the dosage recommendations described in the PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions section should be followed. Switching a Patient To or From a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Antidepressant At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat depression and initiation of therapy with buspirone hydrochloride tablets. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping buspirone hydrochloride tablets before starting an MAOI antidepressant (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and DRUG INTERACTIONS ). Use of Buspirone with (Reversible) MAOIs, Such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start buspirone hydrochloride tablets in a patient who is being treated with a reversible MAOI such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, non-pharmacological interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered (see CONTRAINDIATIONS and DRUG INTERACTIONS ). In some cases, a patient already receiving therapy with buspirone hydrochloride tablets may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, buspirone hydrochloride tablets should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. The patient should be monitored for symptoms of serotonin syndrome for 2 weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, whichever comes first. Therapy with buspirone hydrochloride tablets may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue (see WARNINGS ). The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg per kg with buspirone hydrochloride tablets is unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and DRUG INTERACTIONS ). When buspirone is to be given with a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, the dosage recommendations described in the PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions section should be followed. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping buspirone hydrochloride tablets before starting an MAOI antidepressant (CONTRAINDICATIONS and DRUG INTERACTIONS). Use of buspirone hydrochloride tablets with (Reversible) MAOIs, Such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start buspirone hydrochloride tablets in a patient who is being treated with a reversible MAOI such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, non-pharmacological interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and DRUG INTERACTIONS). Therapy with buspirone hydrochloride tablets may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue (see WARNINGS). The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS and DRUG INTERACTIONS). In clinical trials allowing dose titration, divided doses of 20 mg to 30 mg per day were commonly employed. When buspirone is to be given with a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, the dosage recommendations described in the PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions section should be followed. Switching a Patient To or From a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Antidepressant At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat depression and initiation of therapy with buspirone hydrochloride. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping buspirone hydrochloride before starting an MAOI antidepressant (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and DRUG INTERACTIONS ). Use of buspirone hydrochloride with (Reversible) MAOIs, Such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start buspirone hydrochloride in a patient who is being treated with a reversible MAOI such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, non-pharmacological interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and DRUG INTERACTIONS ). In some cases, a patient already receiving therapy with buspirone hydrochloride may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, buspirone hydrochloride should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. Therapy with buspirone hydrochloride may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue (see WARNINGS ). The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg per kg with buspirone hydrochloride is unclear. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping buspirone hydrochloride tablets before starting an MAOI antidepressant CONTRAINDICATIONS and DRUG INTERACTIONS ). When buspirone is to be given with a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, the dosage recommendations described in the PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions section should be followed. Switching a Patient To or From a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Antidepressant At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat depression and initiation of therapy with buspirone. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping buspirone before starting an MAOI antidepressant CONTRAINDICATIONS and DRUG INTERACTIONS Use of Buspirone Hydrochloride Tablets with (Reversible) MAOIs, Such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start buspirone in a patient who is being treated with a reversible MAOI such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In some cases, a patient already receiving therapy with buspirone may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, buspirone should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. Therapy with buspirone may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue (see WARNINGS ). The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg per kg with buspirone is unclear. The bioavailability of buspirone is increased when given with food as compared to the fasted state (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). When buspirone is to be given with a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 the dosage recommendations described in the PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions section should be followed. When buspirone is to be given with a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 the dosage recommendations described in the PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions section should be followed. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS and DRUG INTERACTIONS ).
Warnings: WARNINGS The administration of buspirone hydrochloride tablets to a patient taking a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) may pose a hazard. There have been reports of the occurrence of elevated blood pressure when buspirone hydrochloride has been added to a regimen including an MAOI. Therefore, it is recommended that buspirone hydrochloride tablets not be used concomitantly with an MAOI. Serotonin Syndrome The development of a potentially life-threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with SNRIs SSRIs, and other serotonergic drugs, including buspirone, alone but particularly with concomitant use of other serotonergic drugs (including triptans), with drugs that impair metabolism of serotonin (in particular, MAOIs, including reversible MAOIs such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue), or with antipsychotics or other dopamine antagonists. Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular changes (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). Patients should be monitored for emergence of serotonin syndrome. The concomitant use of buspirone with MAOIs intended to treat depression is contraindicated. Buspirone should also not be started in a patient who is being treated with reversible MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. All reports with methylene blue that provided information on the route of administration involved intravenous administration in the dose range of 1 mg/kg to 8 mg/kg. There have been no reports involving the administration of methylene blue by other routes (such as oral tablets or local tissue injection) or at lower doses. There may be circumstances when it is necessary to initiate treatment with a reversible MAOI such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue in a patient taking buspirone. Buspirone should be discontinued before initiating treatment with the reversible MAOI [see CONTRAINDICATIONS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION AND DRUG INTERACTIONS ]. If concomitant use of buspirone with a 5-hydroxytryptmine receptor agonist (triptan) is clinically warranted, careful observation of the patient is advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. The concomitant use of buspirone with serotonin precursors (such as tryptophan) is not recommended. Treatment with buspirone and any concomitant serotonergic or antidopaminergic agents, including antipsychotics, should be discontinued immediately if the above events occur and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated. Because buspirone hydrochloride tablets have no established antipsychotic activity, it should not be employed in lieu of appropriate antipsychotic treatment. Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular changes (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea).Patients should be monitored for emergence of serotonin syndrome. Buspirone should be discontinued before initiating treatment with the reversible MAOI [see CONTRAINDICATIONS, DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION AND DRUG INTERACTIONS]. Because buspirone hydrochloride tablets has no established antipsychotic activity, it should not be employed in lieu of appropriate antipsychotic treatment. WARNINGS The administration of buspirone hydrochloride to a patient taking a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) may pose a hazard. Therefore, it is recommended that buspirone hydrochloride not be used concomitantly with an MAOI. Serotonin Syndrome The development of a potentially life-threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with SNRIs, SSRIs, and other serotonergic drugs, including buspirone, alone but particularly with concomitant use of other serotonergic drugs (including triptans), with drugs that impair metabolism of serotonin (in particular, MAOIs, including reversible MAOIs such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue), or with antipsychotics or other dopamine antagonists. Because buspirone hydrochloride has no established antipsychotic activity, it should not be employed in lieu of appropriate antipsychotic treatment. Buspirone should be discontinued before initiating treatment with the reversible MAOI (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION and DRUG INTERACTIONS ). If concomitant use of buspirone with a 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor agonist (triptan) is clinically warranted, careful observation of the patient is advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. There have been reports of the occurrence of elevated blood pressure when buspirone hydrochloride tablets have been added to a regimen including an MAOI. WARNINGS The administration of buspirone to a patient taking a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) may pose a hazard. Therefore, it is recommended that buspirone not be used concomitantly with an MAOI. Because buspirone has no established antipsychotic activity, it should not be employed in lieu of appropriate antipsychotic treatment. Serotonin Syndrome The development of a potentially life threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with SNRIs SSRIs, and other serotonergic drugs, including buspirone, alone but particularly with concomitant use of other serotonergic drugs (including triptans), with drugs that impair metabolism of serotonin (in particular, MAOIs, including reversible MAOIs such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue), or with antipsychotics or other dopamine antagonists. Buspirone should be discontinued before initiating treatment with the reversible MAOI [see CONTRAINDICATIONS, DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION AND DRUG INTERACTIONS ].
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Buspirone hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients hypersensitive to buspirone hydrochloride. The use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) intended to treat depression with buspirone or within 14 days of stopping treatment with buspirone is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome and/or elevated blood pressure. The use of buspirone within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat depression is also contraindicated. Starting buspirone in a patient who is being treated with reversible MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. (see WARNINGS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION AND DRUG INTERACTIONS ) (see WARNINGS, DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION AND DRUG INTERACTIONS) Starting buspirone in a patient who is being treated with reversible MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome (see WARNINGS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION and DRUG INTERACTIONS ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Buspirone Hydrochloride Tablets, USP are contraindicated in patients hypersensitive to buspirone hydrochloride. (see WARNINGS, DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION AND DRUG INTERACTIONS )
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Drug Interactions Psychotropic Agents MAO inhibitors: The use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) intended to treat depression with buspirone or within 14 days of stopping treatment with buspirone is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome and/or elevated blood pressure. The use of buspirone within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat depression is also contraindicated. Starting buspirone in a patient who is being treated with reversible MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. (see WARNINGS, DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION AND CONCOMITANT DRUG) Amitriptyline: After addition of buspirone to the amitriptyline dose regimen, no statistically significant differences in the steady-state pharmacokinetic parameters (C max , AUC, and C min ) of amitriptyline or its metabolite nortriptyline were observed. Diazepam: After addition of buspirone to the diazepam dose regimen, no statistically significant differences in the steady-state pharmacokinetic parameters (C max , AUC, and C min ) were observed for diazepam, but increases of about 15% were seen for nordiazepam, and minor adverse clinical effects (dizziness, headache, and nausea) were observed. Haloperidol: In a study in normal volunteers, concomitant administration of buspirone and haloperidol resulted in increased serum haloperidol concentrations. The clinical significance of this finding is not clear. Nefazodone: (See Inhibitors and Inducers of Cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) .) Trazodone: There is one report suggesting that the concomitant use of trazodone hydrochloride and buspirone may have caused 3 to 6 fold elevations on SGPT (ALT) in a few patients. In a similar study attempting to replicate this finding, no interactive effect on hepatic transaminases was identified. Triazolam/flurazepam: Coadministration of buspirone with either triazolam or flurazepam did not appear to prolong or intensify the sedative effects of either benzodiazepine. Other psychotropics: Because the effects of concomitant administration of buspirone with most other psychotropic drugs have not been studied, the concomitant use of buspirone with other CNS-active drugs should be approached with caution. Inhibitors and Inducers of Cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) Buspirone has been shown in vitro to be metabolized by CYP3A4. This finding is consistent with the in vivo interactions observed between buspirone and the following: Diltiazem and verapamil: In a study of nine healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (10 mg as a single dose) with verapamil (80 mg t.i.d.) or diltiazem (60 mg t.i.d.) increased plasma buspirone concentrations (verapamil increased AUC and C max of buspirone 3.4 fold while diltiazem increased AUC and C max 5.5 fold and 4 fold, respectively). Adverse events attributable to buspirone may be more likely during concomitant administration with either diltiazem or verapamil. Subsequent dose adjustment may be necessary and should be based on clinical assessment. Erythromycin: In a study in healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (10 mg as a single dose) with erythromycin (1.5 g/day for 4 days) increased plasma buspirone concentrations (5 fold increase in C max and 6 fold increase in AUC). These pharmacokinetic interactions were accompanied by an increased incidence of side effects attributable to buspirone. If the two drugs are to be used in combination, a low dose of buspirone (e.g., 2.5 mg b.i.d.) is recommended. Subsequent dose adjustment of either drug should be based on clinical assessment. Grapefruit juice: In a study in healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (10 mg as a single dose) with grapefruit juice (200 mL double-strength t.i.d. for 2 days) increased plasma buspirone concentrations (4.3 fold increase in C max ; 9.2 fold increase in AUC). Patients receiving buspirone should be advised to avoid drinking such large amounts of grapefruit juice. Itraconazole: In a study in healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (10 mg as a single dose) with itraconazole (200 mg/day for 4 days) increased plasma buspirone concentrations (13 fold increase in C max and 19 fold increase in AUC). If the two drugs are to be used in combination, a low dose of buspirone (e.g., 2.5 mg q.d.) is recommended. Nefazodone: In a study of steady-state pharmacokinetics in healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (2.5 or 5 mg b.i.d.) with nefazodone (250 mg b.i.d.) resulted in marked increases in plasma buspirone concentrations (increases up to 20 fold in C max and up to 50 fold in AUC) and statistically significant decreases (about 50%) in plasma concentrations of the buspirone metabolite 1-PP. With 5 mg b.i.d. doses of buspirone, slight increases in AUC were observed for nefazodone (23%) and its metabolites hydroxynefazodone (HO-NEF) (17%) and meta-chlorophenylpiperazine (9%). Slight increases in C max were observed for nefazodone (8%) and its metabolite HO-NEF (11%). Subjects receiving buspirone 5 mg b.i.d. and nefazodone 250 mg b.i.d. experienced lightheadedness, asthenia, dizziness, and somnolence, adverse events also observed with either drug alone. Rifampin: In a study in healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (30 mg as a single dose) with rifampin (600 mg/day for 5 days) decreased the plasma concentrations (83.7% decrease in C max ; 89.6% decrease in AUC) and pharmacodynamic effects of buspirone. If the two drugs are to be used in combination, the dosage of buspirone may need adjusting to maintain anxiolytic effect. Other inhibitors and inducers of CYP3A4: Substances that inhibit CYP3A4, such as ketoconazole or ritonavir, may inhibit buspirone metabolism and increase plasma concentrations of buspirone while substances that induce CYP3A4, such as dexamethasone or certain anticonvulsants (phenytoin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine), may increase the rate of buspirone metabolism. If a patient has been titrated to a stable dosage on buspirone, a dose adjustment of buspirone may be necessary to avoid adverse events attributable to buspirone or diminished anxiolytic activity. Consequently, when administered with a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, a low dose of buspirone used cautiously is recommended. When used in combination with a potent inducer of CYP3A4 the dosage of buspirone may need adjusting to maintain anxiolytic effect. Other Drugs Cimetidine Coadministration of buspirone with cimetidine was found to increase C max (40%) and T max (2 fold), but had minimal effects on the AUC of buspirone. Protein Binding In vitro , buspirone does not displace tightly bound drugs like phenytoin, propranolol, and warfarin from serum proteins. However, there has been one report of prolonged prothrombin time when buspirone was added to the regimen of a patient treated with warfarin. The patient was also chronically receiving phenytoin, phenobarbital, digoxin, and levothyroxine sodium. In vitro , buspirone may displace less firmly bound drugs like digoxin. The clinical significance of this property is unknown. Therapeutic levels of aspirin, desipramine, diazepam, flurazepam, ibuprofen, propranolol, thioridazine, and tolbutamide had only a limited effect on the extent of binding of buspirone to plasma proteins (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Amitriptyline: After addition of buspirone to the amitriptyline dose regimen, no statistically significant differences in the steady-state pharmacokinetic parameters (C max , AUC, and C min ) of amitriptyline or its metabolite nortriptyline were observed. Diazepam : After addition of buspirone to the diazepam dose regimen, no statistically significant differences in the steady-state pharmacokinetic parameters (C max , AUC, and C min ) were observed for diazepam, but increases of about 15% were seen for nordiazepam, and minor adverse clinical effects (dizziness, headache, and nausea) were observed. Nefazodone : (see Inhibitors and Inducers of Cytochrome P450 3A4 [CYP3A4] ) Trazodone: There is one report suggesting that the concomitant use of Desyrel ® (trazodone hydrochloride) and buspirone may have caused 3- to 6-fold elevations on SGPT (ALT) in a few patients. Triazolam/Flurazepam : Coadministration of buspirone with either triazolam or flurazepam did not appear to prolong or intensify the sedative effects of either benzodiazepine. Drug Interactions Psychotropic Agents MAO inhibitors The use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) intended to treat depression with buspirone or within 14 days of stopping treatment with buspirone is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome and/or elevated blood pressure. Starting buspirone in a patient who is being treated with reversible MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome (see WARNINGS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION AND CONCOMITANT DRUG ). Amitriptyline After addition of buspirone to the amitriptyline dose regimen, no statistically significant differences in the steady-state pharmacokinetic parameters (C max , AUC, and C min ) of amitriptyline or its metabolite nortriptyline were observed. Diazepam After addition of buspirone to the diazepam dose regimen, no statistically significant differences in the steady-state pharmacokinetic parameters (C max , AUC, and C min ) were observed for diazepam, but increases of about 15% were seen for nordiazepam, and minor adverse clinical effects (dizziness, headache, and nausea) were observed. Haloperidol In a study in normal volunteers, concomitant administration of buspirone and haloperidol resulted in increased serum haloperidol concentrations. Nefazodone (See Inhibitors and Inducers of Cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) ) Trazodone There is one report suggesting that the concomitant use of trazodone hydrochloride and buspirone may have caused 3 to 6-fold elevations on SGPT (ALT) in a few patients. Triazolam/Flurazepam Coadministration of buspirone with either triazolam or flurazepam did not appear to prolong or intensify the sedative effects of either benzodiazepine. Other Psychotropics Because the effects of concomitant administration of buspirone with most other psychotropic drugs have not been studied, the concomitant use of buspirone with other CNS-active drugs should be approached with caution. This finding is consistent with the in vivo interactions observed between buspirone and the following: Diltiazem and Verapamil In a study of nine healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (10 mg as a single dose) with verapamil (80 mg t.i.d.) or diltiazem (60 mg t.i.d.) increased plasma buspirone concentrations (verapamil increased AUC and C max of buspirone 3.4-fold while diltiazem increased AUC and C max 5.5-fold and 4-fold, respectively). Erythromycin In a study in healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (10 mg as a single dose) with erythromycin (1.5 g/day for 4 days) increased plasma buspirone concentrations (5-fold increase in C max and 6-fold increase in AUC). Grapefruit Juice In a study in healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (10 mg as a single dose) with grapefruit juice (200 mL double-strength t.i.d. for 2 days) increased plasma buspirone concentrations (4.3-fold increase in C max ; 9.2-fold increase in AUC). Itraconazole In a study in healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (10 mg as a single dose) with itraconazole (200 mg/day for 4 days) increased plasma buspirone concentrations (13-fold increase in C max and 19-fold increase in AUC). Nefazodone In a study of steady-state pharmacokinetics in healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (2.5 or 5 mg b.i.d.) with nefazodone (250 mg b.i.d.) resulted in marked increases in plasma buspirone concentrations (increases up to 20-fold in C max and up to 50-fold in AUC) and statistically significant decreases (about 50%) in plasma concentrations of the buspirone metabolite 1-PP. Rifampin In a study in healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (30 mg as a single dose) with rifampin (600 mg/day for 5 days) decreased the plasma concentrations (83.7% decrease in C max ; 89.6% decrease in AUC) and pharmacodynamic effects of buspirone. Other Inhibitors and Inducers of CYP3A4 Substances that inhibit CYP3A4, such as ketoconazole or ritonavir, may inhibit buspirone metabolism and increase plasma concentrations of buspirone while substances that induce CYP3A4, such as dexamethasone or certain anticonvulsants (phenytoin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine), may increase the rate of buspirone metabolism. Nefazodone: (see Inhibitors and Inducers of Cytochrome P450 3A4 [CYP3A4] ) Trazodone: There is one report suggesting that the concomitant use of Desyrel ® (trazodone hydrochloride) and buspirone may have caused 3- to 6-fold elevations on SGPT (ALT) in a few patients. This finding is consistent with the in vivo interactions observed between buspirone and the following: Diltiazem and Verapamil: In a study of nine healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (10 mg as a single dose) with verapamil (80 mg t.i.d.) or diltiazem (60 mg t.i.d.) increased plasma buspirone concentrations (verapamil increased AUC and C max of buspirone 3.4-fold while diltiazem increased AUC and C max 5.5-fold and 4-fold, respectively.) Adverse events attributable to buspirone may be more likely during concomitant administration with either diltiazem or verapamil. Erythromycin: In a study in healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (10 mg as a single dose) with erythromycin (1.5 g/day for 4 days) increased plasma buspirone concentrations (5-fold increase in C max and 6-fold increase in AUC). If the two drugs are to be used in combination, a low dose of buspirone (eg, 2.5 mg b.i.d.) is recommended. Itraconazole: In a study in healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (10 mg as a single dose) with itraconazole (200 mg/day for 4 days) increased plasma buspirone concentrations (13-fold increase in C max and 19-fold increase in AUC). If the two drugs are to be used in combination, a low dose of buspirone (eg, 2.5 mg q.d.) is recommended. Nefazodone: In a study of steady-state pharmacokinetics in healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (2.5 or 5 mg b.i.d.) with nefazodone (250 mg b.i.d.) resulted in marked increases in plasma buspirone concentrations (increases up to 20-fold in C max and up to 50-fold in AUC) and statistically significant decreases (about 50%) in plasma concentrations of the buspirone metabolite 1-PP. and nefazodone 250 mg b.i.d experienced lightheadedness, asthenia, dizziness, and somnolence, adverse events also observed with either drug alone. Other Drugs Cimetidine: Coadministration of buspirone with cimetidine was found to increase C max (40%) and T max (2-fold), but had minimal effects on the AUC of buspirone. The patient was also chronically receiving phenytoin, phenobarbital, digoxin, and Synthroid ® . Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Buspirone hydrochloride may interfere with the urinary metanephrine/catecholamine assay. It has been mistakenly read as metanephrine during routine assay testing for pheochromocytoma, resulting in a false positive laboratory result. Buspirone hydrochloride should therefore be discontinued for at least 48 hours prior to undergoing a urine collection for catecholamines. Drug Interactions: Psychotropic Agents: MAO inhibitors: The use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) intended to treat depression with buspirone or within 14 days of stopping treatment with buspirone is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome and/or elevated blood pressure. (see WARNINGS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION and CONCOMITANT DRUG ) Amitriptyline: After addition of buspirone to the amitriptyline dose regimen, no statistically significant differences in the steady-state pharmacokinetic parameters (C max , AUC, and C min ) of amitriptyline or its metabolite nortriptyline were observed. Haloperidol : In a study in normal volunteers, concomitant administration of buspirone and haloperidol resulted in increased serum haloperidol concentrations. Nefazodone: [see Inhibitors and Inducers of Cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) ]. Trazodone: There is one report suggesting that the concomitant use of Desyrel ®# (trazodone hydrochloride) and buspirone may have caused 3- to 6-fold elevations on SGPT (ALT) in a few patients. Inhibitors and Inducers of Cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) : Buspirone has been shown in vitro to be metabolized by CYP3A4. Itraconazole : In a study in healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (10 mg as a single dose) with itraconazole (200 mg/day for 4 days) increased plasma buspirone concentrations (13-fold increase in C max and 19-fold increase in AUC). Other Inhibitors and Inducers of CYP3A4: Substances that inhibit CYP3A4, such as ketoconazole or ritonavir, may inhibit buspirone metabolism and increase plasma concentrations of buspirone while substances that induce CYP3A4, such as dexamethasone, or certain anticonvulsants (phenytoin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine), may increase the rate of buspirone metabolism. Other Drugs: Cimetidine: Coadministration of buspirone with cimetidine was found to increase C max (40%) and T max (2–fold), but had minimal effects on the AUC of buspirone. Protein Binding: In vitro , buspirone does not displace tightly bound drugs like phenytoin, propranolol, and warfarin from serum proteins. The patient was also chronically receiving phenytoin, phenobarbital, digoxin, and Synthroid ®* . Drug Interactions Psychotropic Agents MAO inhibitors It is recommended that buspirone not be used concomitantly with MAO inhibitors (see WARNINGS). Nefazodone (See Inhibitors and Inducers of Cytochrome P450 3A4 [CYP3A4] .) Trazodone There is one report suggesting that the concomitant use of trazodone hydrochloride and buspirone may have caused 3 to 6 fold elevations on SGPT (ALT) in a few patients. Inhibitors and Inducers of Cytochrome P450 3A4 [CYP3A4] Buspirone has been shown in vitro to be metabolized by CYP3A4. This finding is consistent with the in vivo interactions observed between buspirone and the following: Diltiazem and verapamil In a study of nine healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (10 mg as a single dose) with verapamil (80 mg t.i.d.) or diltiazem (60 mg t.i.d.) increased plasma buspirone concentrations (verapamil increased AUC and C max of buspirone 3.4 fold while diltiazem increased AUC and C max 5.5 fold and 4 fold, respectively). Erythromycin In a study in healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (10 mg as a single dose) with erythromycin (1.5 g/day for 4 days) increased plasma buspirone concentrations (5 fold increase in C max and 6 fold increase in AUC). Itraconazole In a study in healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (10 mg as a single dose) with itraconazole (200 mg/day for 4 days) increased plasma buspirone concentrations (13 fold increase in C max and 19 fold increase in AUC). Nefazodone In a study of steady-state pharmacokinetics in healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (2.5 or 5 mg b.i.d.) with nefazodone (250 mg b.i.d.) resulted in marked increases in plasma buspirone concentrations (increases up to 20 fold in C max and up to 50 fold in AUC) and statistically significant decreases (about 50%) in plasma concentrations of the buspirone metabolite 1-PP. Other inhibitors and inducers of CYP3A4 Substances that inhibit CYP3A4, such as ketoconazole or ritonavir, may inhibit buspirone metabolism and increase plasma concentrations of buspirone while substances that induce CYP3A4, such as dexamethasone, or certain anticonvulsants (phenytoin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine), may increase the rate of buspirone metabolism. Protein Binding In vitro, buspirone does not displace tightly bound drugs like phenytoin, propanolol, and warfarin from serum proteins. In vitro, buspirone may displace less firmly bound drugs like digoxin. Therapeutic levels of aspirin, desipramine, diazepam, flurazepam, ibuprofen, propranolol, thioridazine, and tolbutamide had only a limited effect on the extent of binding of buspirone to plasma proteins (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). Drug Interactions Psychotropic Agents MAO inhibitors : The use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) intended to treat depression with buspirone or within 14 days of stopping treatment with buspirone is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome and/or elevated blood pressure. (see WARNINGS, DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION AND CONCOMITANT DRUG ) Amitriptyline: After addition of buspirone to the amitriptyline dose regimen, no statistically significant differences in the steady-state pharmacokinetic parameters (Cmax, AUC, and Cmin) of amitriptyline or its metabolite nortriptyline were observed. Diazepam: After addition of buspirone to the diazepam dose regimen, no statistically significant differences in the steady-state pharmacokinetic parameters (Cmax, AUC, and Cmin) were observed for diazepam, but increases of about 15% were seen for nordiazepam, and minor adverse clinical effects (dizziness, headache, and nausea) were observed. Nefazodone: (see Inhibitors and Inducers of Cytochrome P450 3A4 [CYP3A4] ) Trazodone: There is one report suggesting that the concomitant use of trazodone hydrochloride and buspirone may have caused 3 to 6 fold elevations on SGPT (ALT) in a few patients. Other Psychotropics : Because the effects of concomitant administration of buspirone with most other psychotropic drugs have not been studied, the concomitant use of buspirone with other CNS-active drugs should be approached with caution. This finding is consistent with the in vivo interactions observed between buspirone and the following: Diltiazem and Verapamil: In a study of nine healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (10 mg as a single dose) with verapamil (80 mg t.i.d.) or diltiazem (60 mg t.i.d.) increased plasma buspirone concentrations (verapamil increased AUC and Cmax of buspirone 3.4 fold while diltiazem increased AUC and Cmax 5.5 fold and 4 fold, respectively). Erythromycin: In a study in healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (10 mg as a single dose) with erythromycin (1.5 g/day for 4 days) increased plasma buspirone concentrations (5 fold increase in Cmax and 6 fold increase in AUC). for 2 days) increased plasma buspirone concentrations (4.3 fold increase in Cmax; 9.2 fold increase in AUC). Itraconazole: In a study in healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (10 mg as a single dose) with itraconazole (200 mg/day for 4 days) increased plasma buspirone concentrations (13 fold increase in Cmax and 19 fold increase in AUC). Nefazodone: In a study of steady-state pharmacokinetics in healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (2.5 or 5 mg b.i.d.) with nefazodone (250 mg b.i.d.) resulted in marked increases in plasma buspirone concentrations (increases up to 20 fold in Cmax and up to 50 fold in AUC) and statistically significant decreases (about 50%) in plasma concentrations of the buspirone metabolite 1-PP. doses of buspirone, slight increases in AUC were observed for nefazodone (23%) and its metabolites hydroxynefazodone (HO-NEF) (17%) and metachlorophenylpiperazine (9%). Slight increases in Cmax were observed for nefazodone (8%) and its metabolite HO-NEF (11%). Rifampin: In a study in healthy volunteers, coadministration of buspirone (30 mg as a single dose) with rifampin (600 mg/day for 5 days) decreased the plasma concentrations (83.7% decrease in Cmax; 89.6% decrease in AUC) and pharmacodynamic effects of buspirone. Other Drugs Cimetidine: Coadministration of buspirone with cimetidine was found to increase Cmax (40%) and Tmax (2 fold), but had minimal effects on the AUC of buspirone. Protein Binding In vitro , buspirone does not displace tightly bound drugs like phenytoin, propanolol, and warfarin from serum proteins. Inhibitors and Inducers of Cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4): Buspirone has been shown in vitro to be metabolized by CYP3A4.

=== LISINOPRIL ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure lowers the risk of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than 1 drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. These fixed-dose combinations are not indicated for initial therapy (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). In using lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, consideration should be given to the fact that an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has caused agranulocytosis, particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen vascular disease, and that available data are insufficient to show that lisinopril does not have a similar risk. (See WARNINGS .) In considering use of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, it should be noted that Black patients receiving ACE inhibitors have been reported to have a higher incidence of angioedema compared to non-Black. (See WARNINGS, Head and Neck Angioedema .) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program's Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (eg., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). In using lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP, consideration should be given to the fact that an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has caused agranulocytosis, particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen vascular disease, and that available data are insufficient to show that lisinopril does not have a similar risk. (See WARNINGS ). In considering the use of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP, it should be noted that ACE inhibitors have been associated with a higher rate of angioedema in black than in nonblack patients. (See WARNINGS , Lisinopril ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lisinopril tablet USP is an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor indicated for: Treatment of hypertension in adults and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older ( 1.1 ) Adjunct therapy for heart failure ( 1.2 ) Treatment of Acute Myocardial Infarction ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Hypertension Lisinopril tablet USP is indicated for the treatment of hypertension in adult patients and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older to lower blood pressure. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes. Lisinopril tablets USP may be administered alone or with other antihypertensive agents [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.1 )] . 1.2 Heart Failure Lisinopril tablet USP is indicated to reduce signs and symptoms of systolic heart failure [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.2 )] . 1.3 Reduction of Mortality in Acute Myocardial Infarction Lisinopril tablet USP is indicated for the reduction of mortality in treatment of hemodynamically stable patients within 24 hours of acute myocardial infarction. Patients should receive, as appropriate, the standard recommended treatments such as thrombolytics, aspirin and beta-blockers [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.3 )]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lisinopril is an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor indicated for: • Treatment of hypertension in adults and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older (1.1) • Adjunct therapy for heart failure (1.2) • Treatment of Acute Myocardial Infarction 1.1 Hypertension Lisinopril tablets, USP, are indicated for the treatment of hypertension in adult patients and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older to lower blood pressure. Lisinopril tablets, USP, may be administered alone or with other antihypertensive agents [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1.2 Heart Failure Lisinopril tablets, USP, are indicated to reduce signs and symptoms of systolic heart failure [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . 1.3 Reduction of Mortality in Acute Myocardial Infarction Lisinopril tablets, USP, are indicated for the reduction of mortality in treatment of hemodynamically stable patients within 24 hours of acute myocardial infarction. Patients should receive, as appropriate, the standard recommended treatments such as thrombolytics, aspirin and beta-blockers [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. In using lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP consideration should be given to the fact that an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has caused agranulocytosis, particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen vascular disease, and that available data are insufficient to show that lisinopril does not have a similar risk (See WARNINGS ). In considering the use of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP it should be noted that ACE inhibitors have been associated with a higher rate of angioedema in black than in nonblack patients (see WARNINGS, Lisinopril ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lisinopril is an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor indicated for: Treatment of hypertension in adults and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older (1.1) Adjunct therapy for heart failure (1.2) Treatment of Acute Myocardial Infarction (1.3) 1.1 Hypertension Lisinopril tablets, USP, are indicated for the treatment of hypertension in adult patients and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older to lower blood pressure. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lisinopril is an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor indicated for: • Treatment of hypertension in adults and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older (1.1) • Adjunct therapy for heart failure (1.2) • Treatment of Acute Myocardial Infarction Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. 1.1 Hypertension Lisinopril is indicated for the treatment of hypertension in adult patients and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older to lower blood pressure. Lisinopril may be administered alone or with other antihypertensive agents [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1.2 Heart Failure Lisinopril is indicated to reduce signs and symptoms of systolic heart failure [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . 1.3 Reduction of Mortality in Acute Myocardial Infarction Lisinopril is indicated for the reduction of mortality in treatment of hemodynamically stable patients within 24 hours of acute myocardial infarction.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Lisinopril monotherapy is an effective treatment of hypertension in once-daily doses of 10 mg to 80 mg, while hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy is effective in doses of 12.5 mg to 50 mg per day. In clinical trials of lisinopril/hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy using lisinopril doses of 10 mg to 80 mg and hydrochlorothiazide doses of 6.25 mg to 50 mg, the antihypertensive response rates generally increased with increasing dose of either component. The side effects (see WARNINGS ) of lisinopril are generally rare and apparently independent of dose; those of hydrochlorothiazide are a mixture of dose-dependent phenomena (primarily hypokalemia) and dose-independent phenomena (e.g., pancreatitis), the former much more common than the latter. Therapy with any combination of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide will be associated with both sets of dose-independent side effects, but addition of lisinopril in clinical trials blunted the hypokalemia normally seen with diuretics. To minimize dose-independent side effects, it is usually appropriate to begin combination therapy only after a patient has failed to achieve the desired effect with monotherapy. Dose Titration Guided by Clinical Effect A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with either lisinopril or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy may be switched to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 10-12.5 or lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 20-12.5. Further increases of either or both components could depend on clinical response. The hydrochlorothiazide dose should generally not be increased until 2-3 weeks have elapsed. Patients whose blood pressures are adequately controlled with 25 mg of daily hydrochlorothiazide, but who experience significant potassium loss with this regimen, may achieve similar or greater blood pressure control with less potassium loss if they are switched to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 10-12.5. Dosage higher than lisinopril 80 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg should not be used. Replacement Therapy: The combination may be substituted for the titrated individual components. Use in Renal Impairment: The usual regimens of therapy with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets need not be adjusted as long as the patient's creatinine clearance is greater than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 (serum creatinine approximately less than or equal to 3 mg/dL or 265 μmol/L). In patients with more severe renal impairment, loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides, so lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not recommended (see WARNINGS, Anaphylactoid reactions during membrane exposure ). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Lisinopril monotherapy is an effective treatment of hypertension in once-daily doses of 10 mg to 80 mg, while hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy is effective in doses of 12.5 mg per day to 50 mg per day. Therapy with any combination of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide may be associated with either or both dose-independent or dose-dependent side effects, but addition of lisinopril in clinical trials blunted the hypokalemia normally seen with diuretics. To minimize dose-dependent side effects, it is usually appropriate to begin combination therapy only after a patient has failed to achieve the desired effect with monotherapy. Dose Titration Guided by Clinical Effect A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with either lisinopril or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy may be switched to lisinopril /HCTZ 10 /12.5 or lisinopril/HCTZ 20 /12.5, depending on current monotherapy dose. Further increases of either or both components should depend on clinical response with blood pressure measured at the interdosing interval to ensure that there is an adequate antihypertensive effect at that time. The hydrochlorothiazide dose should generally not be increased until 2 to 3 weeks have elapsed. After addition of the diuretic it may be possible to reduce the dose of lisinopril. Patients whose blood pressures are adequately controlled with 25 mg of daily hydrochlorothiazide, but who experience significant potassium loss with this regimen may achieve similar or greater blood-pressure control without electrolyte disturbance if they are switched to Lisinopril/HCTZ 10 /12.5. In patients who are currently being treated with a diuretic, symptomatic hypotension occasionally may occur following the initial dose of lisinopril. The diuretic should, if possible, be discontinued for two to three days before beginning therapy with lisinopril to reduce the likelihood of hypotension (See WARNINGS ). If the patient's blood pressure is not controlled with lisinopril alone, diuretic therapy may be resumed. If the diuretic cannot be discontinued, an initial dose of 5 mg of lisinopril should be used under medical supervision for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Concomitant administration of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide with potassium supplements, potassium salt substitutes or potassium-sparing diuretics may lead to increases of serum potassium (See PRECAUTIONS ). Replacement Therapy The combination may be substituted for the titrated individual components. Use in Renal Impairment Regimens of therapy with lisinopril/HCTZ need not take account of renal function as long as the patient's creatinine clearance is >30 mL/min/1.7m 2 (serum creatinine roughly ≤3 mg/dL or 265 µmol/L). In patients with more severe renal impairment, loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides, so lisinopril/HCTZ is not recommended (see WARNINGS, Anaphylactoid Reactions During Membrane Exposure) . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension: Initial adult dose is 10 mg once daily. Titrate up to 40 mg daily based on blood pressure response. Initiate patients on diuretics at 5 mg once daily ( 2.1 ) Pediatric patients with glomerular filtration rate > 30 mL/min/1.73m 2 : Initial dose in patients 6 years of age and older is 0.07 mg per kg (up to 5 mg total) once daily ( 2.1 ) Heart Failure: Initiate with 5 mg once daily. Increase dose as tolerated to 40 mg daily ( 2.2 ) Acute Myocardial Infarction (MI): Give 5 mg within 24 hours of MI. Followed by 5 mg after 24 hours, then 10 mg once daily ( 2.3) Renal Impairment: For patients with creatinine clearance > 10 mL/min and < 30 mL/min, halve usual initial dose. For patients with creatinine clearance < 10 mL/min or on hemodialysis, the recommended initial dose is 2.5 mg ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Hypertension Initial Therapy in adults: The recommended initial dose is 10 mg once a day. Dosage should be adjusted according to blood pressure response. The usual dosage range is 20 mg to 40 mg per day administered in a single daily dose. Doses up to 80 mg have been used but do not appear to give greater effect. Use with Diuretics in Adults If blood pressure is not controlled with lisinopril alone, a low dose of a diuretic may be added (e.g, hydrochlorothiazide, 12.5 mg). After the addition of a diuretic, it may be possible to reduce the dose of lisinopril. The recommended starting dose in adult patients with hypertension taking diuretics is 5 mg once per day. Pediatric Patients 6 Years of Age and Older with Hypertension For pediatric patients with glomerular filtration rate > 30 mL/min/1.73m 2 , the recommended starting dose is 0.07 mg per kg once daily (up to 5 mg total). Dosage should be adjusted according to blood pressure response up to a maximum of 0.61 mg per kg (up to 40 mg) once daily. Doses above 0.61 mg per kg (or in excess of 40 mg) have not been studied in pediatric patients [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )] . Lisinopril tablet USP is not recommended in pediatric patients < 6 years or in pediatric patients with glomerular filtration rate < 30 mL/min/1.73m 2 [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.4 ) and CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.1 )] . 2.2 Heart Failure The recommended starting dose for lisinopril, when used with diuretics and (usually) digitalis as adjunctive therapy for systolic heart failure, is 5 mg once daily. The recommended starting dose in these patients with hyponatremia (serum sodium < 130 mEq/L) is 2.5 mg once daily. Increase as tolerated to a maximum of 40 mg once daily. Diuretic dose may need to be adjusted to help minimize hypovolemia, which may contribute to hypotension [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.4 ), and DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7.1 )] . The appearance of hypotension after the initial dose of lisinopril does not preclude subsequent careful dose titration with the drug, following effective management of the hypotension. 2.3 Reduction of Mortality in Acute Myocardial Infarction In hemodynamically stable patients within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms of acute myocardial infarction, give lisinopril tablets USP 5 mg orally, followed by 5 mg after 24 hours, 10 mg after 48 hours and then 10 mg once daily. Dosing should continue for at least six weeks. Initiate therapy with 2.5 mg in patients with a low systolic blood pressure (≤ 120 mmHg and > 100 mm Hg) during the first 3 days after the infarct [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.4 )] . If hypotension occurs (systolic blood pressure ≤ 100 mmHg) a daily maintenance dose of 5 mg may be given with temporary reductions to 2.5 mg if needed. If prolonged hypotension occurs (systolic blood pressure < 90 mmHg for more than 1 hour) lisinopril should be withdrawn. 2.4 Dose in Patients with Renal Impairment No dose adjustment of lisinopril is required in patients with creatinine clearance > 30 mL/min. In patients with creatinine clearance ≥ 10 mL/min and ≤ 30 mL/min, reduce the initial dose of lisinopril to half of the usual recommended dose i.e., hypertension, 5 mg; systolic heart failure, 2.5 mg and acute MI, 2.5 mg. Up titrate as tolerated to a maximum of 40 mg daily. For patients on hemodialysis or creatinine clearance < 10 mL/min, the recommended initial dose is 2.5 mg once daily [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.7 ) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Hypertension: Initial adult dose is 10 mg once daily. Initiate patients on diuretics at 5 mg once daily (2.1) • Pediatric patients with glomerular filtration rate > 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 : Initial dose in patients 6 years of age and older is 0.07 mg per kg (up to 5 mg total) once daily (2.1) • Heart Failure: Initiate with 5 mg once daily. Increase dose as tolerated to 40 mg daily (2.2) • Acute Myocardial Infarction (MI): Give 5 mg within 24 hours of MI. Followed by 5 mg after 24 hours, then 10 mg once daily (2.3) • Renal Impairment: For patients with creatinine clearance ≥ 10 mL/min and ≤ 30 mL/min, halve usual initial dose. For patients with creatinine clearance < 10 mL/min or on hemodialysis, the recommended initial dose is 2.5 mg (2.4) 2.1 Hypertension Initial Therapy in adults: The recommended initial dose is 10 mg once a day. Use with diuretics in adults If blood pressure is not controlled with lisinopril alone, a low dose of a diuretic may be added (e.g., hydrochlorothiazide, 12.5 mg). Doses above 0.61 mg per kg (or in excess of 40 mg) have not been studied in pediatric patients [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Lisinopril is not recommended in pediatric patients < 6 years or in pediatric patients with glomerular filtration rate < 30 mL/min/1.73m 2 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Diuretic dose may need to be adjusted to help minimize hypovolemia, which may contribute to hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) , and Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . 2.3 Reduction of Mortality in Acute Myocardial Infarction In hemodynamically stable patients within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms of acute myocardial infarction, give lisinopril 5 mg orally, followed by 5 mg after 24 hours, 10 mg after 48 hours and then 10 mg once daily. Initiate therapy with 2.5 mg in patients with a low systolic blood pressure (≤ 120 mmHg and > 100 mmHg) during the first 3 days after the infarct [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . For patients on hemodialysis or creatinine clearance < 10 mL/min, the recommended initial dose is 2.5 mg once daily [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Dose Titration Guided by Clinical Effect: A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with either lisinopril or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy may be switched to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 10 mg/12.5 mg or lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 20 mg/12.5 mg, depending on current monotherapy dose. Patients whose blood pressures are adequately controlled with 25 mg of daily hydrochlorothiazide, but who experience significant potassium loss with this regimen may achieve similar or greater blood-pressure control without electrolyte disturbance if they are switched to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 10 mg/12.5 mg. If the patient’s blood pressure is not controlled with lisinopril alone, diuretic therapy may be resumed. Concomitant administration of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets with potassium supplements, potassium salt substitutes or potassium-sparing diuretics may lead to increases of serum potassium (See PRECAUTIONS ). Use in Renal Impairment: Regimens of therapy with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide need not take account of renal function as long as the patient’s creatinine clearance is >30 mL/min/1.7m2 (serum creatinine roughly ≤3 mg/dL or 265 μmol/L). In patients with more severe renal impairment, loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides, so lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide is not recommended (see WARNINGS, Anaphylactoid Reactions During Membrane Exposure ). Initiate patients on diuretics at 5 mg once daily (2.1) Pediatric patients with glomerular filtration rate > 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 : Initial dose in patients 6 years of age and older is 0.07 mg per kg (up to 5 mg total) once daily (2.1) Heart Failure: Initiate with 5 mg once daily. Increase dose as tolerated to 40 mg daily (2.2) Acute Myocardial Infarction (MI): Give 5 mg within 24 hours of MI. Followed by 5 mg after 24 hours, then 10 mg once daily (2.3) Renal Impairment: For patients with creatinine clearance ≥ 10 mL/min and ≤ 30 mL/min, halve usual initial dose. The usual dosage range is 20 to 40 mg per day administered in a single daily dose. Use with diuretics in adults If blood pressure is not controlled with Lisinopril alone, a low dose of a diuretic may be added (eg, hydrochlorothiazide, 12.5 mg). Pediatric Patients 6 years of age and older with hypertension For pediatric patients with glomerular filtration rate > 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 , the recommended starting dose is 0.07 mg per kg once daily (up to 5 mg total). Lisinopril is not recommended in pediatric patients < 6 years or in pediatric patients with glomerular filtration rate < 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Clinical Studies (14.1) ].
Warnings: WARNINGS General Lisinopril Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions: Presumably because angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides, including endogenous bradykinin, patients receiving ACE inhibitors (including lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets) may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions, some of them serious. Head and Neck Angioedema: Angioedema of the face, extremities, lips, tongue, glottis and/or larynx has been reported rarely in patients treated with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, including lisinopril. This may occur at any time during treatment. ACE inhibitors have been associated with a higher rate of angioedema in Black than in non-Black patients. In such cases lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be promptly discontinued and appropriate therapy and monitoring should be provided until complete and sustained resolution of signs and symptoms has occurred. Even in those instances where swelling of only the tongue is involved, without respiratory distress, patients may require prolonged observation since treatment with antihistamines and corticosteroids may not be sufficient. Very rarely, fatalities have been reported due to angioedema associated with laryngeal edema or tongue edema. Patients with involvement of the tongue, glottis or larynx are likely to experience airway obstruction, especially those with a history of airway surgery. Where there is involvement of the tongue, glottis or larynx, likely to cause airway obstruction, subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1:1000 (0.3 mL to 0.5 mL) and/or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway should be promptly provided (See ADVERSE REACTIONS . ) Patients with a history of angioedema unrelated to ACE-inhibitor therapy may be at increased risk of angioedema while receiving an ACE inhibitor (see also INDICATIONS AND USAGE and CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitor and mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor (e.g., temsirolimus, sirolimus, everolimus) therapy or a neprilysin inhibitor may be at increased risk for angioedema (see PRECAUTIONS ). Intestinal Angioedema : Intestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors. These patients presented with abdominal pain (with or without nausea or vomiting); in some cases there was no prior history of facial angioedema and C-1 esterase levels were normal. The angioedema was diagnosed by procedures including abdominal CT scan or ultrasound, or at surgery, and symptoms resolved after stopping the ACE inhibitor. Intestinal angioedema should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients on ACE inhibitors presenting with abdominal pain. Anaphylactoid reactions during desensitization: Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions. In the same patients, these reactions were avoided when ACE inhibitors were temporarily withheld, but they reappeared upon inadvertent rechallenge. Anaphylactoid reactions during membrane exposure: Sudden and potentially life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in some patients dialyzed with high-flux membranes and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor. In such patients, dialysis must be stopped immediately, and aggressive therapy for anaphylactoid reactions must be initiated. Symptoms have not been relieved by antihistamines in these situations. In these patients, consideration should be given to using a different type of dialysis membrane or a different class of antihypertensive agent. Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in patients undergoing low-density lipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate absorption. Hypotension and Related Effects Excessive hypotension was rarely seen in uncomplicated hypertensive patients but is a possible consequence of lisinopril use in salt/volume-depleted persons such as those treated vigorously with diuretics or patients on dialysis. (See PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions and ADVERSE REACTIONS .) Syncope has been reported in 0.8 percent of patients receiving lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. In patients with hypertension receiving lisinopril alone, the incidence of syncope was 0.1 percent. The overall incidence of syncope may be reduced by proper titration of the individual components. (See PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions , ADVERSE REACTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) In patients with severe congestive heart failure, with or without associated renal insufficiency, excessive hypotension has been observed and may be associated with oliguria and/or progressive azotemia, and rarely with acute renal failure and/or death. Because of the potential fall in blood pressure in these patients, therapy should be started under very close medical supervision. Such patients should be followed closely for the first two weeks of treatment and whenever the dose of lisinopril and/or diuretic is increased. Similar considerations apply to patients with ischemic heart or cerebrovascular disease in whom an excessive fall in blood pressure could result in a myocardial infarction or cerebrovascular accident. If hypotension occurs, the patient should be placed in supine position and, if necessary, receive an intravenous infusion of normal saline. A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further doses which usually can be given without difficulty once the blood pressure has increased after volume expansion. Neutropenia/Agranulocytosis Another angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has been shown to cause agranulocytosis and bone marrow depression, rarely in uncomplicated patients but more frequently in patients with renal impairment, especially if they also have a collagen vascular disease. Available data from clinical trials of lisinopril are insufficient to show that lisinopril does not cause agranulocytosis at similar rates. Marketing experience has revealed rare cases of neutropenia and bone marrow depression in which a causal relationship to lisinopril cannot be excluded. Periodic monitoring of white blood cell counts in patients with collagen vascular disease and renal disease should be considered. Hepatic Failure Rarely, ACE inhibitors have been associated with a syndrome that starts with cholestatic jaundice or hepatitis and progresses to fulminant hepatic necrosis, and (sometimes) death. The mechanism of this syndrome is not understood. Patients receiving ACE inhibitors who develop jaundice or marked elevations of hepatic enzymes should discontinue the ACE inhibitor and receive appropriate medical follow-up. Hydrochlorothiazide Thiazides should be used with caution in severe renal disease. In patients with renal disease, thiazides may precipitate azotemia. Cumulative effects of the drug may develop in patients with impaired renal function. Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease, since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma. Sensitivity reactions may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma. The possibility of exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported. Lithium generally should not be given with thiazides (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions , Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide ). Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma : Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy. Fetal Toxicity Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible. These adverse outcomes are usually associated with the use of these drugs in the second and third trimester of pregnancy. Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin-angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents. Appropriate management of maternal hypertension during pregnancy is important to optimize outcomes for both mother and fetus. In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative therapy to drugs affecting the renin-angiotensin system for a particular patient, apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus. Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra-amniotic environment. If oligohydramnios is observed, discontinue lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, unless it is considered lifesaving for the mother. Fetal testing may be appropriate, based on the week of pregnancy. Patients and physicians should be aware, however, that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury. Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets for hypotension, oliguria, and hyperkalemia ( See PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use ). Lisinopril-Hydrochlorothiazide Teratogenicity studies were conducted in mice and rats with up to 90 mg/kg/day of lisinopril in combination with 10 mg/kg/day of hydrochlorothiazide. This dose of lisinopril is 5 times (in mice) and 10 times (in rats) the maximum recommended human daily dose (MRHDD) when compared on a body surface area basis (mg/m 2 ); the dose of hydrochlorothiazide is 0.9 times (in mice) and 1.8 times (in rats) the MRHDD. Maternal or fetotoxic effects were not seen in mice with the combination. In rats decreased maternal weight gain and decreased fetal weight occurred down to 3/10 mg/kg/day (the lowest dose tested). Associated with the decreased fetal weight was a delay in fetal ossification. The decreased fetal weight and delay in fetal ossification were not seen in saline-supplemented animals given 90/10 mg/kg/day. No teratogenic effects of lisinopril were seen in studies of pregnant mice, rats, and rabbits. On a body surface area basis, the doses used were up 55 times, 33 times, and 0.15 times, respectively, the MRHDD. Hydrochlorothiazide Studies in which hydrochlorothiazide was orally administered to pregnant mice and rats during their respective periods of major organogenesis at doses up to 3000 and 1000 mg/kg/day, respectively, provided no evidence of harm to the fetus. These doses are more than 150 times the MRHDD on a body surface area basis. Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood. There is a risk of fetal or neonatal jaundice, thrombocytopenia and possibly other adverse reactions that have occurred in adults. WARNINGS Lisinopril Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions: Presumably because angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides, including endogenous bradykinin, patients receiving ACE inhibitors (including lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide) may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions, some of them serious. Head and Neck Angioedema: Angioedema of the face, extremities, lips, tongue, glottis and/or larynx has been reported in patients treated with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, including lisinopril. ACE inhibitors have been associated with a higher rate of angioedema in black than in nonblack patients. Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide should be promptly discontinued and the appropriate therapy and monitoring should be provided until complete and sustained resolution of signs and symptoms has occurred. Where there is involvement of the tongue, glottis or larynx, likely to cause airway obstruction, subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1:1000 (0.3 mL to 0.5 mL) and/or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway, should be promptly provided (See ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Intestinal Angioedema: Intestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors. Patients with a history of angioedema unrelated to ACE-inhibitor therapy may be at increased risk of angioedema while receiving an ACE inhibitor (see also INDICATIONS AND USAGE and CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Anaphylactoid reactions during membrane exposure: Thiazide-containing combination products are not recommended in patients with severe renal dysfunction. Sudden and potentially life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in some patients dialyzed with high-flux membranes (eg., AN69 ® *) and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor. Hypotension and Related Effects: Excessive hypotension was rarely seen in uncomplicated hypertensive patients but is a possible consequence of lisinopril use in salt/volume-depleted persons, such as those treated vigorously with diuretics or patients on dialysis . (See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions and ADVERSE REACTIONS .) Syncope has been reported in 0.8 percent of patients receiving lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide. If hypotension occurs, the patient should be placed in the supine position and, if necessary, receive an intravenous infusion of normal saline. Leukopenia/Neutropenia/Agranulocytosis: Another angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has been shown to cause agranulocytosis and bone marrow depression, rarely in uncomplicated patients but more frequently in patients with renal impairment, especially if they also have a collagen vascular disease. Marketing experience has revealed rare cases of leukopenia/neutropenia and bone marrow depression in which a causal relationship to lisinopril cannot be excluded. Hepatic Failure: Rarely, ACE inhibitors have been associated with a syndrome that starts with cholestatic jaundice or hepatitis and progresses to fulminant hepatic necrosis and (sometimes) death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide as soon as possible. These adverse outcomes are usually associated with use of these drugs in the second and third trimester of pregnancy. In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the renin-angiotensin system for a particular patient, apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus. If oligohydramnios is observed, discontinue lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide, unless it is considered lifesaving for the mother. Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide for hypotension, oliguria, and hyperkalemia (see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use) . No teratogenic effects of lisinopril were seen in studies of pregnant rats, mice, and rabbits. On a mg/kg basis, the doses used were up to 625 times (in mice), 188 times (in rats), and 0.6 times (in rabbits) the maximum recommended human dose. Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Teratogenicity studies were conducted in mice and rats with up to 90 mg/kg/day of lisinopril (56 times the maximum recommended human dose) in combination with 10 mg/kg/day of hydrochlorothiazide (2.5 times the maximum recommended human dose. When used in pregnancy, during the second and third trimesters, ACE inhibitors can cause injury and even death to the developing fetus. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide as soon as possible (See Lisinopril, FETAL TOXICITY ). Hydrochlorothiazide Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Teratogenic Effects Reproduction studies in the rabbit, the mouse and the rat at doses up to 100 mg/kg/day (50 times the human dose) showed no evidence of external abnormalities of the fetus due to hydrochlorothiazide. Hydrochlorothiazide given in a two-litter study in rats at doses of 4 mg/kg/day to 5.6 mg/kg/day (approximately 1 to 2 times the usual daily human dose) did not impair fertility or produce birth abnormalities in the offspring. Nonteratogenic Effects These may include fetal or neonatal jaundice, thrombocytopenia, and possibly other adverse reactions have occurred in the adult. Lithium generally should not be given with thiazides (See PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions, Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide ). Fetal Toxicity Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Where there is involvement of the tongue, glottis or larynx, likely to cause airway obstruction, subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1:1000 (0.3 mL to 0.5 mL) and/or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway should be promptly provided (See ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Patients with a history of angioedema unrelated to ACE inhibitor therapy may be at increased risk of angioedema while receiving an ACE inhibitor (see also INDICATIONS AND USAGE and CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Anaphylactoid Reactions During Desensitization : Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions. Anaphylactoid Reactions during Membrane Exposure : Thiazide-containing combination products are not recommended in patients with severe renal dysfunction. Sudden and potentially life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in some patients dialyzed with high-flux membranes (e.g., AN69®*) and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor. Hypotension and Related Effects: Excessive hypotension was rarely seen in uncomplicated hypertensive patients but is a possible consequence of lisinopril use in salt/volume-depleted persons such as those treated vigorously with diuretics or patients on dialysis (See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Syncope has been reported in 0.8 percent of patients receiving lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of syncope may be reduced by proper titration of the individual components (See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , ADVERSE REACTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). In patients with severe congestive heart failure, with or without associated renal insufficiency, excessive hypotension has been observed and may be associated with oliguria and/or progressive azotemia, and rarely with acute renal failure and/or death. Leukopenia/Neutropenia/Agranulocytosis: Another angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has been shown to cause agranulocytosis and bone marrow depression, rarely in uncomplicated patients but more frequently in patients with renal impairment, especially if they also have a collagen vascular disease.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product and in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous treatment with an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor and in patients with hereditary or idiopathic angioedema. Because of the hydrochlorothiazide component, this product is contraindicated in patients with anuria or hypersensitivity to other sulfonamide-derived drugs. Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor (e.g., sacubitril). Do not administer lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril/valsartan, a neprilysin inhibitor (see WARNINGS ). Do not coadminister aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. CONTRAINDICATIONS Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this product and in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous treatment with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and in patients with hereditary or idiopathic angioedema. Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide is contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor (e.g., sacubitril). Do not administer Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril/valsartan, a neprilysin inhibitor (see WARNINGS ). Do not co-administer aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Angioedema or a history of hereditary or idiopathic angioedema ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity ( 4 ) Co-administration of aliskiren with lisinopril in patients with diabetes ( 4 , 7.4 ) Lisinopril is contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor (e.g., sacubitril). Do not administer Lisinopril tablet USP within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril/valsartan, a neprilysin inhibitor [see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ( 5.2 )]. Lisinopril is contraindicated in patients with: a history of angioedema or hypersensitivity related to previous treatment with an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor hereditary or idiopathic angioedema Do not co-administer aliskiren with lisinopril in patients with diabetes [see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7.4 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Lisinopril is contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor (e.g., sacubitril). Do not administer Lisinopril within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril/valsartan, a neprilysin inhibitor [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . Lisinopril is contraindicated in patients with: • a history of angioedema or hypersensitivity related to previous treatment with an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor • hereditary or idiopathic angioedema Do not co-administer aliskiren with lisinopril in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions (7.4)] . • Angioedema or a history of hereditary or idiopathic angioedema ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity ( 4 ) • Co-administration of aliskiren with lisinopril in patients with diabetes ( 4 , 7.4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this product and in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous treatment with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and in patients with hereditary or idiopathic angioedema. Do not administer Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablet within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril/valsartan, a neprilysin inhibitor (see WARNINGS ). Do not co-administer aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Lisinopril is contraindicated in patients with: a history of angioedema or hypersensitivity related to previous treatment with an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor hereditary or idiopathic angioedema Do not co-administer aliskiren with lisinopril in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions (7.4)] . Angioedema or a history of hereditary or idiopathic angioedema ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity ( 4 ) Co-administration of aliskiren with lisinopril in patients with diabetes ( 4 , 7.4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Lisinopril is contraindicated in patients with: • a history of angioedema or hypersensitivity related to previous treatment with an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor • hereditary or idiopathic angioedema Do not co-administer aliskiren with Lisinopril in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ] • Angioedema or a history of hereditary or idiopathic angioedema (4) • Hypersensitivity (4) • Co-administration of aliskiren with Lisinopril in patients with diabetes (4 , 7.4)
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Lisinopril Hypotension - Patients on Diuretic Therapy: Patients on diuretics and especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted, may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with lisinopril. The possibility of hypotensive effects with lisinopril can be minimized by either discontinuing the diuretic or increasing the salt intake prior to initiation of treatment with lisinopril. If it is necessary to continue the diuretic, initiate therapy with lisinopril at a dose of 5 mg daily, and provide close medical supervision after the initial dose for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour. (See WARNINGS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) When a diuretic is added to the therapy of a patient receiving lisinopril, an additional antihypertensive effect is usually observed (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) Inhibitors: In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including lisinopril, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving lisinopril and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors, including lisinopril, may be attenuated by NSAIDs. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS): Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or direct renin inhibitors (such as aliskiren) is associated with increased risk of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The VA NEPHRON trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 to 89.9 ml/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR, end state renal disease, or death, but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with PRINZIDE in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). Other Agents: Lisinopril has been used concomitantly with nitrates and/or digoxin without evidence of clinically significant adverse interactions. No meaningful clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions occurred when lisinopril was used concomitantly with propranolol, digoxin, or hydrochlorothiazide. The presence of food in the stomach does not alter the bioavailability of lisinopril. Agents Increasing Serum Potassium: Lisinopril attenuates potassium loss caused by thiazide-type diuretics. Use of lisinopril with potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, eplerenone, triamterene, or amiloride), potassium supplements, or potassium-containing salt substitutes may lead to significant increases in serum potassium. Therefore, if concomitant use of these agents is indicated, because of demonstrated hypokalemia, they should be used with caution and with frequent monitoring of serum potassium. Lithium: Lithium toxicity has been reported in patients receiving lithium concomitantly with drugs which cause elimination of sodium, including ACE inhibitors. Lithium toxicity was usually reversible upon discontinuation of lithium and the ACE inhibitor. It is recommended that serum lithium levels be monitored frequently if lisinopril is administered concomitantly with lithium. Gold: Nitritoid reactions (symptoms include facial flushing, nausea, vomiting and hypotension) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold (sodium aurothiomalate) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitors: Patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitor and mTOR inhibitor (e.g., temsirolimus, sirolimus, everolimus) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema. (see WARNINGS ) Neprilysin Inhibitors: Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema. (see WARNINGS ) Hydrochlorothiazide When administered concurrently the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics. Alcohol, barbiturates, or narcotics - potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur. Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) - dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Other antihypertensive drugs - additive effect or potentiation. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins - Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% and 43%, respectively. Corticosteroids, ACTH - intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia. Pressor amines (e.g., norepinephrine) - possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use. Skeletal muscle relaxants, nondepolarizing (e.g., tubocurarine) - possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant. Lithium - should not generally be given with diuretics. Diuretic agents reduce the renal clearance of lithium and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatoryDrugs - In some patients, the administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is obtained. Drug Interactions Lisinopril Hypotension - Patients on Diuretic Therapy : Patients on diuretics, and especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted, may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with lisinopril. If it is necessary to continue the diuretic, initiate therapy with lisinopril at a dose of 5 mg daily, and provide close medical supervision after the initial dose for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour (See WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) When a diuretic is added to the therapy of a patient receiving lisinopril, an additional antihypertensive effect is usually observed (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy) or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including lisinopril may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS): Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The VA NEPHRON trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30mL/min to 89.9 mL/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors, closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with renal impairment (GFR < 60 mL/min). mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitors Patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitor and mTOR inhibitor (e.g., temsirolimus, sirolimus, everolimus) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema. (see WARNINGS ) Neprilysin Inhibitors Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema. Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) — dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide. Non-Steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs - In some patients, the administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide is obtained. Gold - Nitritoid reactions (symptoms include facial flushing, nausea, vomiting and hypotension) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold (sodium aurothiomalate) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Diuretics: Excessive drop in blood pressure ( 7.1 ) NSAIDS: Increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive efficacy ( 7.3 ) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension and hyperkalemia ( 7.4 ) Lithium: Symptoms of lithium toxicity ( 7.5 ) Gold: Nitritoid reactions have been reported ( 7.6 ) Concomitant mTOR inhibitor or neprilysin inhibitor use may increase angioedema risk ( 7.7 , 7.8 ) 7.1 Diuretics Initiation of lisinopril in patients on diuretics may result in excessive reduction of blood pressure. The possibility of hypotensive effects with lisinopril can be minimized by either decreasing or discontinuing the diuretic or increasing the salt intake prior to initiation of treatment with lisinopril. If this is not possible, reduce the starting dose of lisinopril tablets [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2.2 ) and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.4 )] . Lisinopril attenuates potassium loss caused by thiazide-type diuretics. Potassium-sparing diuretics (spironolactone, amiloride, triamterene, and others) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia. Therefore, if concomitant use of such agents is indicated, monitor the patient's serum potassium frequently. 7.2 Antidiabetics Concomitant administration of lisinopril and antidiabetic medicines (insulins, oral hypoglycemic agents) may cause an increased blood-glucose-lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia. 7.3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including lisinopril, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. 7.4 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on lisinopril and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with lisinopril in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with lisinopril in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). 7.5 Lithium Lithium toxicity has been reported in patients receiving lithium concomitantly with drugs, which cause elimination of sodium, including ACE inhibitors. Monitor serum lithium levels during concurrent use. 7.6 Gold Nitritoid reactions (symptoms include facial flushing, nausea, vomiting and hypotension) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold (sodium aurothiomalate) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including lisinopril. 7.7 mTOR Inhibitors Patients taking concomitant mTOR inhibitor (e.g. temsirolimus, sirolimus, everolimus) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema. [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.2 )]. 7.8 Neprilysin Inhibitor Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema. [see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ( 5.2 )] 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Diuretics: Excessive drop in blood pressure (7.1) • NSAIDS: Increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive efficacy (7.3) • Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension and hyperkalemia (7.4) • Lithium: Symptoms of lithium toxicity (7.5) • Gold: Nitritoid reactions have been reported (7.6) • Concomitant mTOR inhibitor or neprilysin inhibitor use may increase angioedema risk ( 7.7 , 7.8 ) 7.1 Diuretics Initiation of lisinopril in patients on diuretics may result in excessive reduction of blood pressure. If this is not possible, reduce the starting dose of lisinopril [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Therefore, if concomitant use of such agents is indicated, monitor the patient’s serum potassium frequently. [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] 7.8 Neprilysin Inhibitor Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema. [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] If it is necessary to continue the diuretic, initiate therapy with lisinopril at a dose of 5 mg daily, and provide close medical supervision after the initial dose for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour (See WARNINGS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). When a diuretic is added to the therapy of a patient receiving lisinopril, an additional antihypertensive effect is usually observed (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including lisinopril, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The VA NEPHRON trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 mL/min to 89.9 mL/min ), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors, closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR < 60 mL/min). Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent, respectively. Gold: Nitritoid reactions (symptoms include facial flushing, nausea, vomiting and hypotension) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold (sodium aurothiomalate) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Diuretics: Excessive drop in blood pressure (7.1) NSAIDS: Increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive efficacy (7.3) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension and hyperkalemia (7.4) Lithium: Symptoms of lithium toxicity (7.5) Gold: Nitritoid reactions have been reported (7.6) Concomitant mTOR inhibitor or neprilysin inhibitor use may increase angioedema risk ( 7.7 , 7.8 ) 7.1 Diuretics Initiation of lisinopril in patients on diuretics may result in excessive reduction of blood pressure. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Diuretics: Excessive drop in blood pressure (7.1) • NSAIDS: Increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive efficacy (7.3) • Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension and hyperkalemia (7.4) • Lithium: Symptoms of lithium toxicity (7.5) • Gold: Nitritoid reactions have been reported (7.6) 7.1 Diuretics Initiation of Lisinopril in patients on diuretics may result in excessive reduction of blood pressure.

=== GLYCERIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose lubricant Eye Drops Purposes Lubricant Redness reliever Anorectal/Hemorrhoidal Purposes Protectant Local Anesthetic Vasoconstrictor Purpose Skin protectant Purpose Hyperosmotic laxative Purpose Lubricant Lubricant Purpose Laxative
Indications: Uses For the temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye For the temporary relief of discomfort due to minor irritations of the eye or to exposure to wind or sun For use as a protectant against further irritation or to relieve dryness of the eye Uses relieves redness of the eye due to minor eye irritations for use as a protectant against further irritation or to relieve dryness of the eye for the temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye For the temporary relief of pain, soreness, and burning. Helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids. Temporarily shrinks hemorrhoidal tissue. Temporarily provides a coating for the relief of anorectal discomforts. Temporarily protects the inflamed, irritated anorectal surface to help make bowel movements less painful. Uses: Helps relieve the local itching and discomfort in the perianal area. Temporarily relieves pain, irritation or burning and reduces the swelling associated with irritated hemorrhoidal tissue and other anorectal disorders. Uses temporarily protects and helps relieve chapped or cracked skin Uses for relief of occasional constipation this product generally produces a bowel movement in 1/4 to 1 hour Uses temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye prevents further irritation Uses Temporarily protects and helps relieve minor skin irritation and itching of minor cuts, scrapes and burns Maintains a moist wound environment Ideal for managment of stasis ulcers, pressure ulcers (stages 1-4), first and second degree burns, cuts, post-operative incisions, and skin conditions associated with peristomal care. Uses for relief of occasional constipation this product usually produces bowel movement in 1/4 to 1 hour
Dosage: Directions Instill 1 or 2 drops in the affected eye(s) as needed. Directions instill 1 to 2 drops in the affected eye(s) up to 4 times daily Adults: when practical, cleanse area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly. Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or soft cloth before applying. Adults and children 12 years and older: apply externally to the affected area up to 4 times a day. Children under 12 years of age: consult a doctor. Apply externally to the affected area up to 4 times daily, especially at night, in the morning or after each bowel movement. For intrarectal use: attach applicator to tube. Lubricate well, then gently insert applicator into the rectum. Thoroughly cleanse applicator after use with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly. Directions: Adults: • When practical, cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse by patting or blotting with an appropriate cleansing pad. Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product. Apply externally to the affected area up to 4 times daily. Directions apply as needed Directions Single daily dosage children 2 to under 6 years 1 suppository or as directed by a doctor children under 2 years ask a doctor Insert suppository well up intorectum. Suppository need not melt completely to produce laxative action. Directions instill 1 or 2 drops in the affected eye(s) as needed Directions Apply liberally as often as necessary to cover affected areas. If gauze is used as a wound covering, moisten first. Children under 6 months: Consult a doctor before use Directions children 2 to under 6 years of age: 1 suppository once daily children under 2 years: ask a doctor insert suppository well up into rectum and retain for 15 minutes it need not melt to produce laxative action
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Do not use If solution changes color or becomes cloudy If you are sensitive to any ingredient in this product When using this product To avoid contamination do not touch tip of container to any surface Replace cap after using Stop use and ask a doctor if You experience eye pain, changes in vision, continued redness or irritation of the eye, or if the condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Do not use if solution changes color or becomes cloudy Ask a doctor before use if you have narrow angle glaucoma When using this product to avoid contamination, do not touch tip of container to any surface replace cap after using overuse may produce increased redness of the eye pupils may become enlarged temporarily Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience eye pain you experience changes in vision you experience continued redness or irritation of the eye the condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. For external use only. Ask a doctor before use if you have: heart disease, high blood pressure, thyroid disease, diabetes, or difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland. Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug for high blood pressure or depression. When using this product : avoid contact with eyes, do not exceed recommended dosage unless directed by a doctor, do not put this product into rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator. Stop use and ask a doctor if : rectal bleeding occurs, condition worsens or does not improve within seven (7) days, allergic reaction occurs to ingredients in this product, symptom being treated does not subside or if redness, irritation, swelling, pain or other symptoms develop or increase, symptoms clear up and return within a few days. For external and/or intrarectal use. When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage unless directed by a doctor. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve within seven (7) days, bleeding occurs, an allergic reaction develops, the symptom being treated does not subside or if redness, irritation, swelling, pain or other symptoms develop or increase. Warnings: For external use only. Allergy alert • Certain persons can develop allergic reactions to ingredients in this product. Do not Exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor. Put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator. Use this product if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, thyroid disease, diabetes, or difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland unless directed by a doctor. When using this product If condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days, consult a doctor. In case of bleeding, consult a doctor promptly. Stop use and ask a doctor if If the symptom being treated does not subside or if redness, irritation, swelling, pain, or other symptoms develop or increase. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help, or contact a Poison Control Center right away. If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use. Warnings F or external use only Warnings For rectal use only May cause rectal discomfort of burning sensation Ask a Doctor before using laxative if child has abdominal pain, nausea or vomiting a sudden change in bowel habits lasting more than two weeks already used a laxative for more than 1 week Stop use and consult a doctor if child has rectal bleeding no bowel movement within 1 hour of using this product These symptoms may indicate a serious condition. Warnings For external use only Do not use if solution changes color or becomes cloudy When using this product do not touch tip of container to any surface to avoid contamination remove contact lenses before using replace cap after use Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience eye pain, changes in vision, continued redness or irritation of the eye condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children. Warning For External Use Only Warnings For rectal use only Do not use for longer than one week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if the child has abdominal pain, nausea or vomiting a sudden change in bowel habits lasting more than 2 weeks When using this product your child may have rectal discomfort or a burning sensation Stop use and ask a doctor if the child has rectal bleeding no bowel movement after using this product These may indicate a serious condition.

=== LEVETIRACETAM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levetiracetam is indicated for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older (1.1) Levetiracetam is indicated for adjunctive therapy for the treatment of: Myoclonic seizures in patients 12 years of age and older with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (1.2) Primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 6 years of age and older with idiopathic generalized epilepsy (1.3) 1.1 Partial-Onset Seizures Levetiracetam tablets are indicated for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older. 1.2 Myoclonic Seizures in Patients with Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy Levetiracetam tablets are indicated as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of myoclonic seizures in patients 12 years of age and older with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy. 1.3 Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures Levetiracetam tablets are indicated as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 6 years of age and older with idiopathic generalized epilepsy. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levetiracetam tablets USP are indicated for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older (1.1) Levetiracetam tablets USP are indicated for adjunctive therapy for treatment of: Partial onset seizures in patients one month of age and older with epilepsy ( 1.1 ) Myoclonic seizures in patients 12 years of age and older with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy ( 1.2 ) Primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 6 years of age and older with idiopathic generalized epilepsy ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Partial Onset Seizures Levetiracetam tablets USP are indicated for treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older. 1.2 Myoclonic Seizures in Patients with Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy Levetiracetam tablets USP are indicated as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of myoclonic seizures in patients 12 years of age and older with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy. 1.3 Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures Levetiracetam tablets USP are indicated as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 6 years of age and older with idiopathic generalized epilepsy. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levetiracetam is indicated for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older ( 1.1 ) Levetiracetam is indicated for adjunctive therapy for the treatment of: Myoclonic seizures in patients 12 years of age and older with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy ( 1.2 ) Primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 6 years of age and older with idiopathic generalized epilepsy ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Partial-Onset Seizures Levetiracetam tablets are indicated for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levetiracetam is indicated for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older (1.1) Levetiracetam is indicated for adjunctive therapy for the treatment of: • Myoclonic seizures in patients 12 years of age and older with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (1.2) • Primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 6 years of age and older with idiopathic generalized epilepsy (1.3) 1.1 Partial-Onset Seizures Levetiracetam tablets are indicated for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older. Levetiracetam extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of partial-onset in patients 12 years of age and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levetiracetam is indicated for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older ( 1.1 ) Levetiracetam is indicated for adjunctive therapy for the treatment of: Myoclonic seizures in patients 12 years of age and older with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy ( 1.2 ) Primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 6 years of age and older with idiopathic generalized epilepsy ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Partial-Onset Seizures Levetiracetam is indicated for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older. 1.2 Myoclonic Seizures in Patients with Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy Levetiracetam is indicated as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of myoclonic seizures in patients 12 years of age and older with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy. 1.3 Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures Levetiracetam is indicated as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 6 years of age and older with idiopathic generalized epilepsy. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levetiracetam Injection is indicated for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older ( 1.1 ) • Levetiracetam Injection is indicated for adjunctive therapy for the treatment of: Myoclonic seizures in patients 12 years of age and older with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy ( 1.2 ) Primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 6 years of age and older with idiopathic generalized epilepsy ( 1.3 ) • Levetiracetam Injection is for intravenous use only as an alternative for patients when oral administration is temporarily not feasible ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Partial-Onset Seizures Levetiracetam Injection is indicated for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older. 1.2 Myoclonic Seizures in Patients with Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy Levetiracetam Injection is indicated as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of myoclonic seizures in patients 12 years of age and older with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy. 1.3 Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures Levetiracetam Injection is indicated as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 6 years of age and older with idiopathic generalized epilepsy. 1.4 Limitations of Use Levetiracetam Injection is for intravenous use only as an alternative for patients when oral administration is temporarily not feasible. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levetiracetam tablets are indicated for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older (1.1) Levetiracetam tablets are indicated for adjunctive therapy for the treatment of: Myoclonic seizures in patients 12 years of age and older with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (1.2) Primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 6 years of age and older with idiopathic generalized epilepsy (1.3) 1.1 Partial-Onset Seizures Levetiracetam tablets are indicated for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levetiracetam in Sodium Chloride Injection is an antiepileptic drug indicated for adult patients (16 years and older) when oral administration is temporarily not feasible. Levetiracetam in Sodium Chloride Injection is indicated for adjunct therapy in adults (≥16 years of age) with the following seizure types when oral administration is temporarily not feasible: Partial onset seizures ( 1.1 ) Myoclonic seizures in patients with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy ( 1.2 ) Primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Partial-Onset Seizures Levetiracetam in Sodium Chloride Injection is indicated as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures in adults with epilepsy. 1.2 Myoclonic Seizures in Patients with Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy Levetiracetam in Sodium Chloride Injection is indicated as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of myoclonic seizures in adults with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy. 1.3 Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures Levetiracetam in Sodium Chloride Injection is indicated as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in adults with idiopathic generalized epilepsy. 1.4 Limitations of Use Levetiracetam in Sodium Chloride Injection is an antiepileptic drug indicated for adult patients (16 years and older) when oral administration is temporarily not feasible. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levetiracetam is indicated for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older ( 1.1 ) Levetiracetam is indicated for adjunctive therapy for the treatment of: • Myoclonic seizures in patients 12 years of age and older with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy ( 1.2 ) • Primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 6 years of age and older with idiopathic generalized epilepsy ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Partial-Onset Seizures Levetiracetam is indicated for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the oral solution for pediatric patients with body weight ≤ 20 kg ( 2.1 ) For pediatric patients, use weight-based dosing for the oral solution with a calibrated measuring device (not a household teaspoon or tablespoon) ( 2.1 ) Partial-Onset Seizures (monotherapy or adjunctive therapy) 1 Month to < 6 Months: 7 mg/kg twice daily; increase by 7 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 21 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.2 ) 6 Months to < 4 Years: 10 mg/kg twice daily; increase by 10 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 25 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.2 ) 4 Years to < 16 Years: 10 mg/kg twice daily; increase by 10 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 30 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.2 ) Adults 16 Years and Older: 500 mg twice daily; increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to a recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily ( 2.2 ) Myoclonic Seizures in Adults and Pediatric Patients 12 Years and Older 500 mg twice daily; increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily ( 2.3 ) Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures 6 Years to < 16 Years: 10 mg/kg twice daily, increase in increments of 10 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 30 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.4 ) Adults 16 Years and Older: 500 mg twice daily, increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily ( 2.4 ) Adult Patients with Impaired Renal Function Dose adjustment is recommended, based on the patient’s estimated creatinine clearance ( 2.5 , 8.6 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Levetiracetam tablets are given orally with or without food. The levetiracetam dosing regimen depends on the indication, age group, dosage form (tablets or oral solution), and renal function. Prescribe the oral solution for pediatric patients with body weight ≤ 20 kg. Prescribe the oral solution or tablets for pediatric patients with body weight above 20 kg. When using the oral solution in pediatric patients, dosing is weight-based (mg per kg) using a calibrated measuring device (not a household teaspoon or tablespoon). Levetiracetam tablets should be swallowed whole. Levetiracetam tablets should not be chewed or crushed. 2.2 Dosing for Partial-Onset Seizures The recommended dosing for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy is the same; as outlined below. Adults 16 Years of Age and Older Initiate treatment with a daily dose of 1000 mg/day, given as twice-daily dosing (500 mg twice daily). Additional dosing increments may be given (1000 mg/day additional every 2 weeks) to a maximum recommended daily dose of 3000 mg. There is no evidence that doses greater than 3000 mg/day confer additional benefit. Pediatric Patients 1 Month to < 6 Months Initiate treatment with a daily dose of 14 mg/kg in 2 divided doses (7 mg/kg twice daily). Increase the daily dose every 2 weeks by increments of 14 mg/kg to the recommended daily dose of 42 mg/kg (21 mg/kg twice daily). In the clinical trial, the mean daily dose was 35 mg/kg in this age group. 6 Months to < 4 Years: Initiate treatment with a daily dose of 20 mg/kg in 2 divided doses (10 mg/kg twice daily). Increase the daily dose in 2 weeks by an increment of 20 mg/kg to the recommended daily dose of 50 mg/kg (25 mg/kg twice daily). If a patient cannot tolerate a daily dose of 50 mg/kg, the daily dose may be reduced. In the clinical trial, the mean daily dose was 47 mg/kg in this age group. 4 Years to < 16 Years Initiate treatment with a daily dose of 20 mg/kg in 2 divided doses (10 mg/kg twice daily). Increase the daily dose every 2 weeks by increments of 20 mg/kg to the recommended daily dose of 60 mg/kg (30 mg/kg twice daily). If a patient cannot tolerate a daily dose of 60 mg/kg, the daily dose may be reduced. In the clinical trial, the mean daily dose was 44 mg/kg. The maximum daily dose was 3000 mg/day. For levetiracetam tablet dosing in pediatric patients weighing 20 to 40 kg, initiate treatment with a daily dose of 500 mg given as twice daily dosing (250 mg twice daily). Increase the daily dose every 2 weeks by increments of 500 mg to a maximum recommended daily dose of 1500 mg (750 mg twice daily). For levetiracetam tablet dosing in pediatric patients weighing more than 40 kg, initiate treatment with a daily dose of 1000 mg/day given as twice daily dosing (500 mg twice daily). Increase the daily dose every 2 weeks by increments of 1000 mg/day to a maximum recommended daily dose of 3000 mg (1500 mg twice daily). Levetiracetam Oral Solution Weight-Based Dosing Calculation For Pediatric Patients The following calculation should be used to determine the appropriate daily dose of oral solution for pediatric patients: Daily dose (mg/kg/day) X patient weight (kg) Total daily dose (mL/day) = ------------------------------------------------------ 100 mg/mL 2.3 Dosing for Myoclonic Seizures in Patients 12 Years of Age and Older with Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy Initiate treatment with a dose of 1000 mg/day, given as twice-daily dosing (500 mg twice daily). Increase the dosage by 1000 mg/day every 2 weeks to the recommended daily dose of 3000 mg. The effectiveness of doses lower than 3000 mg/day has not been studied. 2.4 Dosing for Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures Adults 16 Years of Age and Older Initiate treatment with a dose of 1000 mg/day, given as twice-daily dosing (500 mg twice daily). Increase dosage by 1000 mg/day every 2 weeks to the recommended daily dose of 3000 mg. The effectiveness of doses lower than 3000 mg/day has not been adequately studied. Pediatric Patients 6 to <16 Years of Age Initiate treatment with a daily dose of 20 mg/kg in 2 divided doses (10 mg/kg twice daily). The effectiveness of doses lower than 60 mg/kg/day has not been adequately studied. Patients with body weight ≤20 kg should be dosed with oral solution. Patients with body weight above 20 kg can be dosed with either tablets or oral solution [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . Only whole tablets should be administered. 2.5 Dosage Adjustments in Adult Patients with Renal Impairment Levetiracetam tablet dosing must be individualized according to the patient’s renal function status. Recommended dosage adjustments for adults are shown in Table 1. In order to calculate the dose recommended for patients with renal impairment, creatinine clearance adjusted for body surface area must be calculated. To do this an estimate of the patient’s creatinine clearance (CLcr) in mL/min must first be calculated using the following formula: [140-age (years)] x weight (kg) CLcr = ----------------------------------------------(x 0.85 for female patients) 72 x serum creatinine (mg/dL) Then CLcr is adjusted for body surface area (BSA) as follows: CLcr (mL/min) CLcr (mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) = -------------------------- x 1.73 BSA subject (m 2 ) Table 1: Dosing Adjustment Regimen for Adult Patients with Renal Impairment Group Creatinine Clearance (mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) Dosage (mg) Frequency Normal > 80 500 to 1,500 Every 12 hours Mild 50 to 80 500 to 1,000 Every 12 hours Moderate 30 to 50 250 to 750 Every 12 hours Severe < 30 250 to 500 Every 12 hours ESRD patients using dialysis ---- 500 to 1,000 * Every 24 hours * * Following dialysis, a 250 to 500 mg supplemental dose is recommended. 2.6 Discontinuation of Levetiracetam Tablets Avoid abrupt withdrawal from levetiracetam tablets in order to reduce the risk of increased seizure frequency and status epilepticus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the oral solution for pediatric patients with body weight ≤ 20 kg ( 2.1 ). For pediatric patients, use weight-based dosing for the oral solution with a calibrated measuring device (not a household teaspoon or tablespoon) ( 2.1 ) Partial Onset Seizures (monotherapy or adjunctive therapy) 1 Month to < 6 Months: 7 mg/kg twice daily; increase by 7 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 21 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.2 ) 6 Months to < 4 Years: 10 mg/kg twice daily; increase by 10 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 25 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.2 ) 4 Years to < 16 Years: 10 mg/kg twice daily; increase by 10 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 30 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.2 ) Adults 16 Years and Older: 500 mg twice daily; increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to a recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily ( 2.2 ) Myoclonic Seizures in Adults and Pediatric Patients 12 Years and Older 500 mg twice daily; increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily ( 2.3 ) Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures 6 Years to < 16 Years: 10 mg/kg twice daily, increase in increments of 10 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 30 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.4 ) Adults 16 Years and Older: 500 mg twice daily, increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily ( 2.4 ) Adult Patients with Impaired Renal Function Dose adjustment is recommended, based on the patient's estimated creatinine clearance ( 2.5 , 8.6 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Levetiracetam tablets USP are given orally with or without food. The levetiracetam dosing regimen depends on the indication, age group, dosage form (tablets), and renal function. 2.2 Dosing for Partial Onset Seizures The recommended dosing for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy is the same; as outlined below. Pediatric Patients 1 Month to < 6 Months: Initiate treatment with a daily dose of 14 mg/kg in 2 divided doses (7 mg/kg twice daily). 6 Months to <4 Years: Initiate treatment with a daily dose of 20 mg/kg in 2 divided doses (10 mg/kg twice daily). 4 Years to < 16 Years: Initiate treatment with a daily dose of 20 mg/kg in 2 divided doses (10 mg/kg twice daily). Levetiracetam Oral Solution Weight-Based Dosing Calculation For Pediatric Patients The following calculation should be used to determine the appropriate daily dose of oral solution for pediatric patients: 2.3 Dosing for Myoclonic Seizures in Patients 12 Years of Age and Older with Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy Initiate treatment with a dose of 1000 mg/day, given as twice-daily dosing (500 mg twice daily). Patients with body weight above 20 kg can be dosed with either tablets or oral solution [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2.1 )] . 2.5 Dosage Adjustments in Adult Patients with Renal Impairment Levetiracetam tablets dosing must be individualized according to the patient's renal function status. To do this an estimate of the patient's creatinine clearance (CLcr) in mL/min must first be calculated using the following formula: Group Creatinine Clearance (mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) Dosage (mg) Frequency Normal >80 500 to 1,500 Every 12 hours Mild 50 to 80 500 to 1,000 Every 12 hours Moderate 30 to 50 250 to 750 Every 12 hours Severe <30 250 to 500 Every 12 hours ESRD patients using dialysis ----- 500 to 1,000 Following dialysis, a 250 to 500 mg supplemental dose is recommended. Every 24 hours 2.6 Discontinuation of Levetiracetam tablets Avoid abrupt withdrawal from Levetiracetam Tablets in order to reduce the risk of increased seizure frequency and status epilepticus [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.8 )] figure 1 figure 2 For pediatric patients, use weight-based dosing for the oral solution with a calibrated measuring device (not a household teaspoon or tablespoon) ( 2.1 ) Partial Onset Seizures (monotherapy or adjunctive therapy) 1 Month to < 6 Months: 7 mg/kg twice daily; increase by 7 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 21 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.2 ) 6 Months to < 4 Years: 10 mg/kg twice daily; increase by 10 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 25 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.2 ) 4 Years to < 16 Years: 10 mg/kg twice daily; increase by 10 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 30 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.2 ) Adults 16 Years and Older: 500 mg twice daily; increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to a recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily ( 2.2 ) Myoclonic Seizures in Adults and Pediatric Patients 12 Years and Older 500 mg twice daily; increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily ( 2.3 ) Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures 6 Years to < 16 Years: 10 mg/kg twice daily, increase in increments of 10 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 30 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.4 ) Adults 16 Years and Older: 500 mg twice daily, increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily ( 2.4 ) Adult Patients with Impaired Renal Function Dose adjustment is recommended, based on the patient’s estimated creatinine clearance ( 2.5 , 8.6 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Levetiracetam tablets are given orally with or without food. Levetiracetam Oral Solution Weight-Based Dosing Calculation For Pediatric Patients The following calculation should be used to determine the appropriate daily dose of oral solution for pediatric patients: Daily dose (mg/kg/day) x patient weight (kg) Total daily dose (mL/day) = ------------------------------------------------------------- 100 mg/mL 2.3 Dosing for Myoclonic Seizures in Patients 12 Years of Age and Older With Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy Initiate treatment with a dose of 1000 mg/day, given as twice-daily dosing (500 mg twice daily). Patients with body weight above 20 kg can be dosed with either tablets or oral solution [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ]. To do this an estimate of the patient’s creatinine clearance (CLcr) in mL/min must first be calculated using the following formula: [140-age (years)] x weight (kg) CLcr = ----------------------------------------------(x 0.85 for female patients) 72 x serum creatinine (mg/dL) Then CLcr is adjusted for body surface area (BSA) as follows: CLcr (mL/min) CLcr (mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) = -------------------------- x 1.73 BSA subject (m 2 ) Table 1: Dosing Adjustment Regimen for Adult Patients with Renal Impairment Group Creatinine Clearance (mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) Dosage (mg) Frequency Normal > 80 500 to 1,500 Every 12 hours Mild 50 to 80 500 to 1,000 Every 12 hours Moderate 30 to 50 250 to 750 Every 12 hours Severe < 30 250 to 500 Every 12 hours ESRD patients using dialysis ---- 500 to 1,000 Following dialysis, a 250 to 500 mg supplemental dose is recommended. Every 24 hours 2.6 Discontinuation of Levetiracetam Tablets Avoid abrupt withdrawal from levetiracetam tablets in order to reduce the risk of increased seizure frequency and status epilepticus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Use the oral solution for pediatric patients with body weight ≤ 20 kg ( 2.1 ) • For pediatric patients, use weight-based dosing for the oral solution with a calibrated measuring device (not a household teaspoon or tablespoon) ( 2.1 ) Partial-Onset Seizures (monotherapy or adjunctive therapy) • 1 Month to < 6 Months: 7 mg/kg twice daily; increase by 7 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 21 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.2 ) • 6 Months to < 4 Years: 10 mg/kg twice daily; increase by 10 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 25 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.2 ) • 4 Years to < 16 Years: 10 mg/kg twice daily; increase by 10 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 30 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.2 ) • Adults 16 Years and Older: 500 mg twice daily; increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to a recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily ( 2.2 ) Myoclonic Seizures in Adults and Pediatric Patients 12 Years and Older • 500 mg twice daily; increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily ( 2.3 ) Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures • 6 Years to < 16 Years: 10 mg/kg twice daily, increase in increments of 10 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 30 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.4 ) • Adults 16 Years and Older: 500 mg twice daily, increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily ( 2.4 ) Adult Patients with Impaired Renal Function • Dose adjustment is recommended, based on the patient’s estimated creatinine clearance ( 2.5 , 8.6 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Levetiracetam tablets are given orally with or without food. 2.1 Recommended Dosing For adults and adolescent patients, the recommended dosing for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy is the same; as outlined below. Adults and Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older Weighing 50 kg or More Initiate treatment with a dose of 1,000 mg once daily. The once daily dosage may be adjusted in increments of 1,000 mg every 2 weeks to a maximum recommended daily dose of 3,000 mg/day once daily. Administration Levetiracetam extended-release tablets are administered once daily. Levetiracetam extended-release tablets should be swallowed whole. The tablets should not be chewed, broken, or crushed. 2.2 Dosage Adjustments in Adult Patients with Renal Impairment Levetiracetam extended-release tablets dosing must be individualized according to the patient's renal function status. To do this, an estimate of the patient's creatinine clearance (CLcr) in mL/min must first be calculated using the following formula: [clcr 2] [clcr 2] Table 1: Dosage Adjustment Regimen For Adult Patients With Impaired Renal Function Group Creatinine Clearance (mL/min/1.73m2) Dosage (mg) Frequency Normal > 80 1,000 to 3,000 Every 24 hours Mild 50 – 80 1,000 to 2,000 Every 24 hours Moderate 30 – 50 500 to 1500 Every 24 hours Severe < 30 500 to 1,000 Every 24 hours 2.3 Discontinuation of Levetiracetam Extended-release Tablets Avoid abrupt withdrawal from levetiracetam extended-release tablets in order to reduce the risk of increased seizure frequency and status epilepticus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the oral solution for pediatric patients with body weight ≤ 20 kg ( 2.1 ) For pediatric patients, use weight-based dosing for the oral solution with a calibrated measuring device (not a household teaspoon or tablespoon) ( 2.1 ) Partial-Onset Seizures (monotherapy or adjunctive therapy) 1 Month to < 6 Months: 7 mg/kg twice daily; increase by 7 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 21 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.2 ) 6 Months to < 4 Years: 10 mg/kg twice daily; increase by 10 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 25 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.2 ) 4 Years to < 16 Years: 10 mg/kg twice daily; increase by 10 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 30 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.2 ) Adults 16 Years and Older: 500 mg twice daily; increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to a recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily ( 2.2 ) Myoclonic Seizures in Adults and Pediatric Patients 12 Years and Older 500 mg twice daily; increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily ( 2.3 ) Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures 6 Years to < 16 Years: 10 mg/kg twice daily, increase in increments of 10 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 30 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.4 ) Adults 16 Years and Older: 500 mg twice daily, increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily ( 2.4 ) Adult Patients with Impaired Renal Function Dose adjustment is recommended, based on the patient’s estimated creatinine clearance ( 2.5 , 8.6 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Levetiracetam is given orally with or without food. 6 Months to < 4 Years Initiate treatment with a daily dose of 20 mg/kg in 2 divided doses (10 mg/kg twice daily). For levetiracetam tablets dosing in pediatric patients weighing 20 to 40 kg, initiate treatment with a daily dose of 500 mg given as twice daily dosing (250 mg twice daily). For levetiracetam tablets dosing in pediatric patients weighing more than 40 kg, initiate treatment with a daily dose of 1000 mg/day given as twice daily dosing (500 mg twice daily). Levetiracetam Oral Solution Weight-Based Dosing Calculation For Pediatric Patients The following calculation should be used to determine the appropriate daily dose of oral solution for pediatric patients: Pedatric Patient Dose Calculation 2.3 Dosing for Myoclonic Seizures in Patients 12 Years of Age and Older with Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy Initiate treatment with a dose of 1000 mg/day, given as twice-daily dosing (500 mg twice daily). Pediatric Patients Ages 6 to < 16 Years of Age Initiate treatment with a daily dose of 20 mg/kg in 2 divided doses (10 mg/kg twice daily). Patients with body weight ≤ 20 kg should be dosed with oral solution. 2.5 Dosage Adjustments in Adult Patients with Renal Impairment Levetiracetam dosing must be individualized according to the patient’s renal function status. To do this an estimate of the patient’s creatinine clearance (CLcr) in mL/min must first be calculated using the following formula: Then CLcr is adjusted for body surface area (BSA) as follows: Table 1: Dosing Adjustment Regimen for Adult Patients with Renal Impairment Group Creatinine Clearance (mL/min/1.73m 2 ) Dosage (mg) Frequency Normal > 80 500 to 1,500 Every 12 hours Mild 50 - 80 500 to 1,000 Every 12 hours Moderate 30 - 50 250 to 750 Every 12 hours Severe < 30 250 to 500 Every 12 hours ESRD patients using dialysis --- 500 to 1,000 Following dialysis, a 250 to 500 mg supplemental dose is recommended. Every 24 hours Creatinine Clearance Calculation Creatinine Clearance BSA Calculation 2.6 Discontinuation of Levetiracetam Avoid abrupt withdrawal from levetiracetam in order to reduce the risk of increased seizure frequency and status epilepticus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Levetiracetam Injection is for intravenous use only ( 2.1 ) Partial-Onset Seizures (monotherapy or adjunctive therapy) 1 Month to < 6 Months: 7 mg/kg twice daily; increase by 7 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 21 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.1 ) 6 Months to < 4 Years: 10 mg/kg twice daily; increase by 10 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 25 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.1 ) 4 Years to < 16 Years: 10 mg/kg twice daily; increase by 10 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 30 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.1 ) Adults 16 Years and Older: 500 mg twice daily; increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to a recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily ( 2.1 ) Myoclonic Seizures in Adults and Pediatric Patients 12 Years and Older 500 mg twice daily; increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily ( 2.2 ) Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures 6 Years to < 16 Years: 10 mg/kg twice daily; increase by 10 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 30 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.3 ) Adults 16 Years and Older: 500 mg twice daily; increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily ( 2.3 ) Switching From or To Oral Levetiracetam When switching from or to oral Levetiracetam, the total daily dosage/frequency of Levetiracetam Injection should be equivalent to those of oral Levetiracetam. ( 2.4 , 2.5 ) See full prescribing information for preparation and administration instructions ( 2.6 ) and dosage adjustment in adults with renal impairment ( 2.7 ) 2.1 Dosing for Partial Onset Seizures The recommended dosing for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy is the same as outlined below. There is no clinical study experience with administration of intravenous levetiracetam for a period longer than 4 days. 2.2 Dosing for Myoclonic Seizures in Patients with Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy Initiate treatment with a dose of 1000 mg/day, given as twice-daily dosing (500 mg twice daily). 2.3 Dosing for Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures Adults 16 Years of Age and Older Initiate treatment with a dose of 1000 mg/day, given as twice-daily dosing (500 mg twice daily). Increase the daily dose every 2 weeks by increments of 20 mg/kg (10 mg/kg twice daily) to the recommended daily dose of 60 mg/kg (30 mg/kg twice daily). 2.4 Switching from Oral Dosing When switching from oral Levetiracetam, the initial total daily intravenous dosage of Levetiracetam Injection should be equivalent to the total daily dosage and frequency of oral Levetiracetam. 2.5 Switching to Oral Dosing At the end of the intravenous treatment period, the patient may be switched to Levetiracetam oral administration at the equivalent daily dosage and frequency of the intravenous administration. 2.6 Preparation and Administration Instructions Levetiracetam Injection is for intravenous use only and should be diluted in 100 mL of a compatible diluent prior to administration. If a smaller volume is required (e.g., pediatric patients), the amount of diluent should be calculated to not exceed a maximum levetiracetam concentration of 15 mg per mL of diluted solution. Consideration should also be given to the total daily fluid intake of the patient. Levetiracetam Injection should be administered as a 15-minute IV infusion. One vial of Levetiracetam Injection contains 500 mg levetiracetam (500 mg/5 mL). Levetiracetam Injection may be mixed with the following diluents and antiepileptic drugs and may be stored in polyvinyl chloride (PVC) bags. The diluted solution should not be stored for more than 4 hours at controlled room temperature [15-30⁰C (59-86⁰F)]. Diluents: Sodium chloride (0.9%) injection, USP Lactated Ringer’s injection Dextrose 5% injection, USP Other Antiepileptic Drugs: Lorazepam Diazepam Valproate sodium There are no data to support the physical compatibility of Levetiracetam Injection with antiepileptic drugs that are not listed above. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Product with particulate matter or discoloration should not be used. Any unused portion of the Levetiracetam Injection vial contents should be discarded. Adults See Table 1 for the recommended preparation and administration of Levetiracetam Injection for adults to achieve a dose of 500 mg, 1000 mg, or 1500 mg. Table 1: Preparation and Administration of Levetiracetam Injection for Adults Dose Withdraw Volume Volume of Diluent Infusion Time 500 mg 5 mL (5 mL vial) 100 mL 15 minutes 1000 mg 10 mL (two 5 mL vials) 100 mL 15 minutes 1500 mg 15 mL (three 5 mL vials) 100 mL 15 minutes For example, to prepare a 1000 mg dose, dilute 10 mL of Levetiracetam Injection in 100 mL of a compatible diluent and administer intravenously as a 15-minute infusion. Pediatric Patients When using Levetiracetam Injection for pediatric patients, dosing is weight-based (mg per kg). The following calculation should be used to determine the appropriate daily dose of Levetiracetam Injection for pediatric patients: Total daily dose (mL/day) = Daily dose (mg/kg/day) x patient weight (kg) 100 mg/mL 2.7 Dosage Adjustments in Adult Patients with Renal Impairment Levetiracetam Injection dosing must be individualized according to the patient's renal function status. Recommended dosage adjustments for adults with renal impairment are shown in Table 2. Information is unavailable for dosage adjustments in pediatric patients with renal impairment. In order to calculate the dose recommended for adult patients with renal impairment, creatinine clearance adjusted for body surface area must be calculated. To do this an estimate of the patient’s creatinine clearance (CLcr) in mL/min must first be calculated using the following formula: CLcr = [140-age (years)] x weight (kg) (x 0.85 for female patients) 72 x serum creatinine (mg/dL) Then CLcr is adjusted for body surface area (BSA) as follows: CLcr (mL/min/1.73m 2 ) = CLcr (mL/min) x 1.73 BSA subject (m 2 ) Table 2: Dosage Adjustment Regimen for Adult Patients with Renal Impairment Group Creatinine Clearance (mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) Dosage (mg) Frequency Normal > 80 500 to 1,500 Every 12 hours Mild 50 – 80 500 to 1,000 Every 12 hours Moderate 30 – 50 250 to 750 Every 12 hours Severe < 30 250 to 500 Every 12 hours ESRD patients using dialysis ----- 500 to 1,0001 Following dialysis, a 250 to 500 mg supplemental dose is recommended. Every 24 hours 2.8 Discontinuation of Levetiracetam Injection Avoid abrupt withdrawal from Levetiracetam Injection in order to reduce the risk of increased seizure frequency and status epilepticus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the oral solution for pediatric patients with body weight ≤ 20 kg (2.1) For pediatric patients, use weight-based dosing for the oral solution with a calibrated measuring device (not a household teaspoon or tablespoon) (2.1) Partial-Onset Seizures (monotherapy or adjunctive therapy) 1 Month to < 6 Months: 7 mg/kg twice daily; increase by 7 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 21 mg/kg twice daily (2.2) 6 Months to < 4 Years: 10 mg/kg twice daily; increase by 10 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 25 mg/kg twice daily (2.2) 4 Years to < 16 Years: 10 mg/kg twice daily; increase by 10 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 30 mg/kg twice daily (2.2) Adults 16 Years and Older: 500 mg twice daily; increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to a recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily (2.2) Myoclonic Seizures in Adults and Pediatric Patients 12 Years and Older 500 mg twice daily; increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily (2.3) Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures 6 Years to < 16 Years: 10 mg/kg twice daily, increase in increments of 10 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 30 mg/kg twice daily (2.4) Adults 16 Years and Older: 500 mg twice daily, increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily (2.4) Adult Patients with Impaired Renal Function Dose adjustment is recommended, based on the patient's estimated creatinine clearance (2.5, 8.6) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Levetiracetam tablets are given orally with or without food. Levetiracetam Oral Solution Weight-Based Dosing Calculation For Pediatric Patients The following calculation should be used to determine the appropriate daily dose of oral solution for pediatric patients: Daily dose (mg/kg/day) x patient weight (kg) Total daily dose (mL/day) = ----------------------------------------------------------- 100 mg/mL 2.3 Dosing for Myoclonic Seizures in Patients 12 Years of Age and Older with Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy Initiate treatment with a dose of 1000 mg/day, given as twice-daily dosing (500 mg twice daily). Patients with body weight above 20 kg can be dosed with either tablets or oral solution [see D osage and Administration (2.1)] . 2.5 Dosage Adjustments in Adult Patients with Renal Impairment Levetiracetam dosing must be individualized according to the patient's renal function status. To do this an estimate of the patient's creatinine clearance (CLcr) in mL/min must first be calculated using the following formula: [140-age (years)] x weight (kg) (x 0.85 for female patients) CLcr= ----------------------------------------- 72 x serum creatinine (mg/dL) Then CLcr is adjusted for body surface area (BSA) as follows: CLcr (mL/min) CLcr (mL/min/1.73m 2 ) = ---------------------------x 1.73 BSA subject (m 2 ) Table 1: Dosing Adjustment Regimen for Adult Patients with Renal Impairment Group Creatinine Clearance (mL/min/1.73m 2 ) Dosage (mg) Frequency Normal > 80 500 to 1,500 Every 12 hours Mild 50 ─ 80 500 to 1,000 Every 12 hours Moderate 30 ─ 50 250 to 750 Every 12 hours Severe < 30 250 to 500 Every 12 hours ESRD patients using dialysis --- 500 to 1,000 Following dialysis, a 250 to 500 mg supplemental dose is recommended. Every 24 hours 2.6 Discontinuation of Levetiracetam Tablets Avoid abrupt withdrawal from levetiracetam tablets in order to reduce the risk of increased seizure frequency and status epilepticus [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For intravenous infusion only ( 2.1 ) Do not dilute prior to its use ( 2.1 ) Administer dose-specific bag intravenously over 15-minutes ( 2.1 ) Initial Exposure to Levetiracetam Partial Onset Seizures : Initial dose is 500 mg twice daily.Increase by 500 mg twice daily evry 2 weeks to a maximum recommended dose of 1,500 mg twice daily. ( 2.2 ). Myoclonic Seizures in Patients with Juvenile Myoc/onic Epilepsy : Initial dose is 500 mg twice daily. Increase by 500 mg every 2 weeks to the recommended daily dose of 1,500 mg twice daily. ( 2.2 ) Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures : Initial dose is 500 mg twice daily. Increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to the recommended dose of 1,500 mg twice daily. ( 2.2 ) Switching from or to oral Levetiracetam: The total daily dosage/frequency of levetiracetam injection should be equivalent to those of oral levetiracetam ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) Renal Impairment: Dose adjustment necessary based on creatinine clearance ( 2.5 ). 2.1 General Information -Administration Levetiracetam in Sodium Chloride Injection is for intravenous infusion only. It is available in the following concentrations: three single-dose 100 mL bags, each containing a different total dosage of levetiracetam (500 mg [5 mg/mL], 1,000 mg [10 mg/mL], or 1,500 mg [15 mg/mL]). A single-dose bag should be administered intravenously over a 15-minute IV infusion period. Levetiracetam in Sodium Chloride Injection should not be further diluted prior to use. Any unused portion of the Levetiracetam in Sodium Chloride Injection contents should be discarded. 2.2 Initial Exposure to Levetiracetam Levetiracetam can be initiated with either intravenous or oral administration. Partial-Onset Seizures In clinical trials of oral levetiracetam, daily doses of 1,000 mg, 2,000 mg, and 3,000 mg, given as twice-daily dosing, were shown to be effective. Although in some studies there was a tendency toward greater response with higher dose [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] , a consistent increase in response with increased dose has not been shown. Treatment should be initiated with a daily dose of 1,000 mg/day, given as twice-daily dosing (500 mg twice daily). Additional dosing increments may be given (1,000 mg/day additional every 2 weeks) to a maximum recommended daily dose of 3,000 mg. Doses greater than 3,000 mg/day have been used in open-label studies with levetiracetam tablets for periods of 6 months and longer. There is no evidence that doses greater than 3,000 mg/day confer additional benefit. Myoclonic Seizures in Patients with Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy Treatment should be initiated with a dose of 1,000 mg/day, given as twice-daily dosing (500 mg twice daily). Dosage should be increased by 1,000 mg/day every 2 weeks to the recommended daily dose of 3,000 mg. The effectiveness of doses lower than 3,000 mg/day has not been studied. Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures Treatment should be initiated with a dose of 1,000 mg/day, given as twice-daily dosing (500 mg twice daily). The effectiveness of doses lower than 3,000 mg/day has not been adequately studied. 2.3 Switching to Intravenous Dosing When switching from oral levetiracetam, the initial total daily intravenous dosage of levetiracetam should be equivalent to the total daily dosage and frequency of oral levetiracetam. 2.4 Switching to Oral Dosing At the end of the intravenous treatment period, the patient may be switched to levetiracetam oral administration at the equivalent daily dosage and frequency of the intravenous administration. 2.5 Adult Patients with Impaired Renal Function Levetiracetam dosing must be individualized according to the patient’s renal function status. Recommended doses and adjustment for dose for adults are shown in Table 1. To use this dosing table, an estimate of the patient’s creatinine clearance (CLcr) in mL/min is needed. Table 1: Dosing Adjustment Regimen for Adult Patients with Impaired Renal Function Group Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Dosage (mg) Frequency Normal greater than 80 500 to 1,500 Every 12 hours Mild 50 to 80 500 to 1,000 Every 12 hours Moderate 30 to 50 250 to 750 Every 12 hours Severe less than 30 250 to 500 Every 12 hours ESRD patients using dialysis --- 500 to 1,000 1 Every 24 hours 1 Following dialysis, a 250 to 500 mg supplemental dose is recommended. 2.6 Compatibility with Other Antiepileptic Drugs Levetiracetam in Sodium Chloride Injection is found to be physically compatible and chemically stable for at least 24 hours when mixed with lorazepam, diazepam, and valproate sodium and stored at controlled room temperature 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F). There are no data to support the physical compatibility of levetiracetam injection with antiepileptic drugs that are not listed above. 2.7 Discontinuation of Levetiracetam Avoid abrupt withdrawal from levetiracetam in order to reduce the risk of increased seizure frequency and status epilepticus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Use the oral solution for pediatric patients with body weight ≤ 20 kg ( 2.1 ) • For pediatric patients, use weight-based dosing for the oral solution with a calibrated measuring device (not a household teaspoon or tablespoon) ( 2.1 ) Partial-Onset Seizures (monotherapy or adjunctive therapy) • 1 Month to < 6 Months: 7 mg/kg twice daily; increase by 7 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 21 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.2 ) • 6 Months to < 4 Years: 10 mg/kg twice daily; increase by 10 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 25 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.2 ) • 4 Years to < 16 Years: 10 mg/kg twice daily; increase by 10 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 30 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.2 ) • Adults 16 Years and Older: 500 mg twice daily; increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to a recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily ( 2.2 ) Myoclonic Seizures in Adults and Pediatric Patients 12 Years and Older • 500 mg twice daily; increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily ( 2.3 ) Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures • 6 Years to < 16 Years: 10 mg/kg twice daily, increase in increments of 10 mg/kg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 30 mg/kg twice daily ( 2.4 ) • Adults 16 Years and Older: 500 mg twice daily, increase by 500 mg twice daily every 2 weeks to recommended dose of 1500 mg twice daily ( 2.4 ) Adult Patients with Impaired Renal Function • Dose adjustment is recommended, based on the patient’s estimated creatinine clearance ( 2.5 , 8.6 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Levetiracetam is given orally with or without food.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Levetiracetam tablets are contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to levetiracetam. Reactions have included anaphylaxis and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Known hypersensitivity to levetiracetam; angioedema and anaphylaxis have occurred ( 4 , 5.4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to levetiracetam; angioedema and anaphylaxis have occurred ( 4 , 5.4 ) Levetiracetam is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to levetiracetam. Reactions have included anaphylaxis and angioedema [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.4 )] . Levetiracetam extended-releasetablets are contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to levetiracetam. Reactions have included anaphylaxis and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Levetiracetam is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to levetiracetam. Reactions have included anaphylaxis and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Levetiracetam Injection is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to levetiracetam. Reactions have included anaphylaxis and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Known hypersensitivity to levetiracetam; angioedema and anaphylaxis have occurred ( 4 , 5.3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Levetiracetam tablets are contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to levetiracetam . Reactions have included anaphylaxis and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] . Known hypersensitivity to levetiracetam; angioedema and anaphylaxis have occurred (4, 5.4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Levetiracetam in Sodium Chloride Injection is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to levetiracetam. Reactions have included anaphylaxis and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Known hypersensitivity to levetiracetam; angioedema and anaphylaxis have occurred ( 4 )
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions In vitro data on metabolic interactions indicate that levetiracetam is unlikely to produce, or be subject to, pharmacokinetic interactions. Levetiracetam and its major metabolite, at concentrations well above C max levels achieved within the therapeutic dose range, are neither inhibitors of, nor high affinity substrates for, human liver cytochrome P450 isoforms, epoxide hydrolase or UDP-glucuronidation enzymes. In addition, levetiracetam does not affect the in vitro glucuronidation of valproic acid. Potential pharmacokinetic interactions of or with levetiracetam were assessed in clinical pharmacokinetic studies (phenytoin, valproate, warfarin, digoxin, oral contraceptive, probenecid) and through pharmacokinetic screening in the placebo-controlled clinical studies in epilepsy patients. Phenytoin Levetiracetam (3000 mg daily) had no effect on the pharmacokinetic disposition of phenytoin in patients with refractory epilepsy. Pharmacokinetics of levetiracetam were also not affected by phenytoin. Valproate Levetiracetam (1500 mg twice daily) did not alter the pharmacokinetics of valproate in healthy volunteers. Valproate 500 mg twice daily did not modify the rate or extent of levetiracetam absorption or its plasma clearance or urinary excretion. There also was no effect on exposure to and the excretion of the primary metabolite, ucb L057. Other Antiepileptic Drugs Potential drug interactions between levetiracetam and other AEDs (carbamazepine, gabapentin, lamotrigine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, primidone and valproate) were also assessed by evaluating the serum concentrations of levetiracetam and these AEDs during placebo-controlled clinical studies. These data indicate that levetiracetam does not influence the plasma concentration of other AEDs and that these AEDs do not influence the pharmacokinetics of levetiracetam. Effect of AEDs in Pediatric Patients There was about a 22% increase of apparent total body clearance of levetiracetam when it was co-administered with enzyme-inducing AEDs. Dose adjustment is not recommended. Levetiracetam had no effect on plasma concentrations of carbamazepine, valproate, topiramate, or lamotrigine. Oral Contraceptives Levetiracetam (500 mg twice daily) did not influence the pharmacokinetics of an oral contraceptive containing 0.03 mg ethinyl estradiol and 0.15 mg levonorgestrel, or of the luteinizing hormone and progesterone levels, indicating that impairment of contraceptive efficacy is unlikely. Coadministration of this oral contraceptive did not influence the pharmacokinetics of levetiracetam. Digoxin Levetiracetam (1000 mg twice daily) did not influence the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics (ECG) of digoxin given as a 0.25 mg dose every day. Coadministration of digoxin did not influence the pharmacokinetics of levetiracetam. Warfarin Levetiracetam (1000 mg twice daily) did not influence the pharmacokinetics of R and S warfarin. Prothrombin time was not affected by levetiracetam. Coadministration of warfarin did not affect the pharmacokinetics of levetiracetam. Probenecid Probenecid, a renal tubular secretion blocking agent, administered at a dose of 500 mg four times a day, did not change the pharmacokinetics of levetiracetam 1000 mg twice daily. C ss max of the metabolite, ucb L057, was approximately doubled in the presence of probenecid while the fraction of drug excreted unchanged in the urine remained the same. Renal clearance of ucb L057 in the presence of probenecid decreased 60%, probably related to competitive inhibition of tubular secretion of ucb L057. The effect of levetiracetam on probenecid was not studied.

=== SODIUM MONOFLUOROPHOSPHATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Anticavity 70.0% v/v Gel base Purpose Anticavity (Total Fluoride Content - 1000 ppm Approx.)
Indications: Uses aids in the prevention of dental cavities Use helps protect against cavities USES Hand Sanitization to decrease bacteria on the skin. For use when soap and water are not available. Uses Regular brushing with Fluoride toothpaste helps protect teeth roots against cavities. Use Aids in the prevention of dental caries
Dosage: Directions adults and children 2 years of age and older: brush teeth thoroughly, preferably after ach meal or at least twice per day, or as directed by a dentist or doctor. instruct children under 6 years of age in good brushing and rinsing habits (to minimize swallowing). supervise children as necessary until capable of using without supervision. children under 2 years of age: Consult a dentist or doctor. Directions adults and children 2 years of age and older brush teeth thoroughly, preferably after each meal or at least twice a day, or as directed by a dentist or physician children 2 to 6 years use only a pea sized amount and supervise child's brushing and rinsing (to minimize swallowing) children under 2 years ask a dentist or physician DIRECTIONS Not recommended for infants. Wet hands thoroughly with product & allow to self dry. Children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using this product. Directions Adults & 6+ Children Brush teeth thoroughly after meals or at least twice a day or use as directed by a dentist or physician Children under 6 yrs. To minimize swallowing use a pea - sized amount and supervise brushing. Children under 2 yrs. Ask a dentist or physician. NDC NO. 84132-100-10 Directions adults and children 2 years of age and older brush teeth thoroughly, preferably after each meal or at least twice a day, or as directed by a dentist or physician children 2 to 6 years use only a pea-sized amount and supervise child's brushing and rinsing (to minimize swallowing) children under 2 years ask a dentist or physician Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older: Brush teeth thoroughly, preferably after each meal or at least twice a day, or as directed by a dentist or doctor. Instruct children under 6 years of age in good brushing and rinising habits (to minimize swallowing). Supervuse children as necessary until capable of using without supervision. Children under 6 years of age: Consult a dentist or doctor.
Warnings: Warnings Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age . If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age. Warnings Keep out of the reach of children under 6 years of age. WARNINGS Flammable. Keep away from fire or flame. For external use only. Recommended for repeated use. WHEN USING THE PRODUCT Do not use in or near the eyes. In case of contact, rinse eyes thoroughly with water. STOP USE AND ASK A DOCTOR IF Irritation or rash appears, Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or call a poison control center. Don't use if irritation occurs and persists. If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed, get medical help, or contact a Poison Control Center right away. If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed, get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away. Warning Keep out of reach of children.

=== METRONIDAZOLE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Symptomatic Trichomoniasis. Metronidazole tablets are indicated for the treatment of T. vaginalis infection in females and males when the presence of the trichomonad has been confirmed by appropriate laboratory procedures (wet smears and/or cultures). Asymptomatic Trichomoniasis. Metronidazole tablets are indicated in the treatment of asymptomatic T. vaginalis infection in females when the organism is associated with endocervicitis, cervicitis, or cervical erosion. Since there is evidence that presence of the trichomonad can interfere with accurate assessment of abnormal cytological smears, additional smears should be performed after eradication of the parasite. Treatment of Asymptomatic Sexual Partners. T. vaginalis infection is a venereal disease. Therefore, asymptomatic sexual partners of treated patients should be treated simultaneously if the organism has been found to be present, in order to prevent reinfection of the partner. The decision as to whether to treat an asymptomatic male partner who has a negative culture or one for whom no culture has been attempted is an individual one. In making this decision, it should be noted that there is evidence that a woman may become reinfected if her sexual partner is not treated. Also, since there can be considerable difficulty in isolating the organism from the asymptomatic male carrier, negative smears and cultures cannot be relied upon in this regard. In any event, the sexual partner should be treated with metronidazole tablets in cases of reinfection. Amebiasis Metronidazole tablets are indicated in the treatment of acute intestinal amebiasis (amebic dysentery) and amebic liver abscess. In amebic liver abscess, Metronidazole tablet therapy does not obviate the need for aspiration or drainage of pus. Anaerobic Bacterial Infections. Metronidazole tablets are indicated in the treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible anaerobic bacteria. Indicated surgical procedures should be performed in conjunction with metronidazole tablet therapy. In a mixed aerobic and anaerobic infection, antimicrobials appropriate for the treatment of the aerobic infection should be used in addition to metronidazole tablets. INTRA-ABDOMINAL INFECTIONS, including peritonitis, intra-abdominal abscess, and liver abscess, caused by Bacteroides species including the B. fragilis group ( B. fragilis, B. distasonis, B. ovatus, B. thetaiotaomicron, B. vulgatus ), Clostridium species, Eubacterium species, Peptococcus species, and Peptostreptococcus species. SKIN AND SKIN STRUCTURE INFECTIONS caused by Bacteroides species including the B. fragilis group, Clostridium species, Peptococcus species, Peptostreptococcus species, and Fusobacterium species. GYNECOLOGIC INFECTIONS, including endometritis, endomyometritis, tubo-ovarian abscess, and postsurgical vaginal cuff infection, caused by Bacteroides species including the B. BACTERIAL SEPTICEMIA caused by Bacteroides species including the B. fragilis group and Clostridium species. BONE AND JOINT INFECTIONS, (as adjunctive therapy), caused by Bacteroides species including the B. fragilis group. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM (CNS) INFECTIONS, including meningitis and brain abscess, caused by Bacteroides species including the B. LOWER RESPIRATORY TRACT INFECTIONS, including pneumonia, empyema, and lung abscess, caused by Bacteroides species including the B. ENDOCARDITIS caused by Bacteroides species including the B. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of metronidazole tablets and other antibacterial drugs, metronidazole tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metronidazole gel USP (topical), 0.75%, is indicated for topical application in the treatment of inflammatory papules and pustules of rosacea. Metronidazole tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of T. Metronidazole tablets, USP are indicated in the treatment of asymptomatic T. Amebiasis. Metronidazole tablets, USP are indicated in the treatment of acute intestinal amebiasis (amebic dysentery) and amebic liver abscess. In amebic liver abscess, metronidazole tablets therapy does not obviate the need for aspiration or drainage of pus. Metronidazole tablets, USP are indicated in the treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible anaerobic bacteria. Indicated surgical procedures should be performed in conjunction with metronidazole tablets therapy. fragilis , B. distasonis , B. ovatus , B. thetaiotaomicron , B. vulgatus ), Clostridium species, Eubacterium species, Peptococcus species , and Peptostreptococcus species. fragilis group, Clostridium species, Peptococcus species , Peptostreptococcus species, and Fusobacterium species. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metronidazole vaginal gel is indicated in the treatment of bacterial vaginosis (formerly referred to as Haemophilus vaginitis, Gardnerella vaginitis, nonspecific vaginitis, Corynebacterium vaginitis, or anaerobic vaginosis). NOTE For purposes of this indication, a clinical diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis is usually defined by the presence of a homogeneous vaginal discharge that (a) has a pH of greater than 4.5, (b) emits a "fishy" amine odor when mixed with a 10% KOH solution, and (c) contains clue cells on microscopic examination. Gram's stain results consistent with a diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis include (a) markedly reduced or absent Lactobacillus morphology, (b) predominance of Gardnerella morphotype, and (c) absent or few white blood cells. Other pathogens commonly associated with vulvovaginitis, e.g., Trichomonas vaginalis , Chlamydia trachomatis , N. gonorrhoeae , Candida albicans , and Herpes simplex virus should be ruled out. Metronidazole tablets are indicated in the treatment of acute intestinal amebiasis (amebic dysentery) and amebic liver abscess. INDICATIONS AND USAGE: Metronidazole topical cream is indicated for topical application in the treatment of inflammatory papules and pustules of rosacea. Metronidazole tablets USP is indicated for the treatment of T. Metronidazole tablets USP is indicated in the treatment of asymptomatic T. In any event, the sexual partner should be treated with metronidazole tablets USP in cases of reinfection. Metronidazole tablets USP is indicated in the treatment of acute intestinal amebiasis (amebic dysentery) and amebic liver abscess. In amebic liver abscess, metronidazole tablets USP therapy does not obviate the need for aspiration or drainage of pus. Metronidazole tablets USP is indicated in the treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible anaerobic bacteria. Indicated surgical procedures should be performed in conjunction with metronidazole tablets USP therapy. In a mixed aerobic and anaerobic infection, antimicrobials appropriate for the treatment of the aerobic infection should be used in addition to metronidazole tablets USP. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of metronidazole tablets USP and other antibacterial drugs, metronidazole tablets USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Trichomoniasis: In the Female: One-day treatment − two grams of metronidazole tablets, given either as a single dose or in two divided doses of one gram each, given in the same day. Seven-day course of treatment − 250 mg three times daily for seven consecutive days. There is some indication from controlled comparative studies that cure rates as determined by vaginal smears and signs and symptoms, may be higher after a seven-day course of treatment than after a one-day treatment regimen. The dosage regimen should be individualized. Single-dose treatment can assure compliance, especially if administered under supervision, in those patients who cannot be relied on to continue the seven-day regimen. A seven-day course of treatment may minimize reinfection by protecting the patient long enough for the sexual contacts to obtain appropriate treatment. Further, some patients may tolerate one treatment regimen better than the other. Pregnant patients should not be treated during the first trimester (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). In pregnant patients for whom alternative treatment has been inadequate, the one-day course of therapy should not be used, as it results in higher serum levels which can reach the fetal circulation (see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy ). When repeat courses of the drug are required, it is recommended that an interval of four to six weeks elapse between courses and that the presence of the trichomonad be reconfirmed by appropriate laboratory measures. Total and differential leukocyte counts should be made before and after re-treatment. In the Male: Treatment should be individualized as it is for the female. Amebiasis Adults: For acute intestinal amebiasis (acute amebic dysentery): 750 mg orally three times daily for 5 to 10 days. For amebic liver abscess: 500 mg or 750 mg orally three times daily for 5 to 10 days. Pediatric patients : 35 to 50 mg/kg/24 hours, divided into three doses, orally for 10 days. Anaerobic Bacterial Infections In the treatment of most serious anaerobic infections, intravenous metronidazole is usually administered initially. The usual adult oral dosage is 7.5 mg/kg every six hours (approx. 500 mg for a 70-kg adult). A maximum of 4 g should not be exceeded during a 24-hour period. The usual duration of therapy is 7 to 10 days; however, infections of the bone and joint, lower respiratory tract, and endocardium may require longer treatment. Dosage Adjustments Patients with Severe Hepatic Impairment For patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C), the dose of metronidazole tablets should be reduced by 50% (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and PRECAUTIONS ). Patients Undergoing Hemodialysis: Hemodialysis removes significant amounts of metronidazole and its metabolites from systemic circulation. The clearance of metronidazole will depend on the type of dialysis membrane used, the duration of the dialysis session, and other factors. If the administration of metronidazole cannot be separated from the hemodialysis session, supplementation of metronidazole dosage following the hemodialysis session should be considered, depending on the patient's clinical situation (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply and rub in a thin film of metronidazole gel USP (topical), 0.75%, twice daily, morning and evening, to entire affected areas after washing. Areas to be treated should be cleansed before application of metronidazole gel USP (topical), 0.75%. Patients may use cosmetics after application of metronidazole gel USP (topical), 0.75%. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Trichomoniasis In the Female: One-day treatment − two grams of metronidazole tablets, given either as a single dose or in two divided doses of one gram each, given in the same day. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose is one applicator full of metronidazole vaginal gel (approximately 5 grams containing approximately 37.5 mg of metronidazole) intravaginally once or twice a day for 5 days. For once-a-day dosing, metronidazole vaginal gel should be administered at bedtime. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Trichomoniasis In the Female One-day treatment − two grams of metronidazole tablets, given either as a single dose or in two divided doses of one gram each, given in the same day. In the Male Treatment should be individualized as it is for the female. Amebiasis Adults For acute intestinal amebiasis (acute amebic dysentery): 750 mg orally three times daily for 5 to 10 days. Pediatric patients: 35 to 50 mg/kg/24 hours, divided into three doses, orally for 10 days. 500 mg for a 70 kg adult). Patients Undergoing Hemodialysis Hemodialysis removes significant amounts of metronidazole and its metabolites from systemic circulation. If the administration of metronidazole cannot be separated from the hemodialysis session, supplementation of metronidazole dosage following the hemodialysis session should be considered, depending on the patient’s clinical situation (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Apply and rub in a thin layer of metronidazole topical cream twice daily, morning and evening, to entire affected areas after washing. Areas to be treated should be washed with a mild cleanser before application. Patients may use cosmetics after application of metronidazole topical cream. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Trichomoniasis: In the Female: One-day treatment − two grams of metronidazole tablets given either as a single dose or in two divided doses of one gram each, given in the same day. In pregnant patients for whom alternative treatment has been inadequate, the one-day course of therapy should not be used, as it results in higher serum levels which can reach the fetal circulation (see PRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy ). Amebiasis Adults: For acute intestinal amebiasis (acute amebic dysentery) : 750 mg orally three times daily for 5 to 10 days.
Warnings: WARNINGS Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions including severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs) can be serious and potentially life threatening (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions Severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs) including toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP) have been reported with the use of metronidazole. Symptoms can be serious and potentially life threatening (If symptoms or signs of SCARs develop, discontinue metronidazole tablets immediately and institute appropriate therapy. Central and Peripheral Nervous System Effects Encephalopathy and peripheral neuropathy: Cases of encephalopathy and peripheral neuropathy (including optic neuropathy) have been reported with metronidazole. Encephalopathy has been reported in association with cerebellar toxicity characterized by ataxia, dizziness, and dysarthria. CNS lesions seen on MRI have been described in reports of encephalopathy. CNS symptoms are generally reversible within days to weeks upon discontinuation of metronidazole. CNS lesions seen on MRI have also been described as reversible. Peripheral neuropathy, mainly of sensory type has been reported and is characterized by numbness or paresthesia of an extremity. Convulsive seizures have been reported in patients treated with metronidazole. Aseptic meningitis: Cases of aseptic meningitis have been reported with metronidazole. Symptoms can occur within hours of dose administration and generally resolve after metronidazole therapy is discontinued. The appearance of abnormal neurologic signs and symptoms demands the prompt evaluation of the benefit/risk ratio of the continuation of therapy (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Symptoms can be serious and potentially life threatening. If symptoms or signs of SCARs develop, discontinue metronidazole immediately and institute appropriate therapy. WARNINGS Convulsive Seizures and Peripheral Neuropathy Convulsive seizures and peripheral neuropathy, the latter characterized mainly by numbness or paresthesia of an extremity, have been reported in patients treated with oral or intravenous metronidazole. The appearance of abnormal neurologic signs demands the prompt discontinuation of metronidazole vaginal gel therapy. Metronidazole vaginal gel should be administered with caution to patients with central nervous system diseases. Psychotic Reactions Psychotic reactions have been reported in alcoholic patients who were using oral metronidazole and disulfiram concurrently. Metronidazole vaginal gel should not be administered to patients who have taken disulfiram within the last 2 weeks. WARNINGS Central and Peripheral Nervous System Effects Encephalopathy and Peripheral Neuropathy Cases of encephalopathy and peripheral neuropathy (including optic neuropathy) have been reported with metronidazole. Aseptic Meningitis Cases of aseptic meningitis have been reported with metronidazole. WARNINGS Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions including severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs) can be serious and potentially life threatening (see ADVERSE REACTIONS). Symptoms can be serious and potentially life threatening If symptoms or signs of SCARs develop, discontinue Metronidazole tablets USP immediately and institute appropriate therapy. WARNINGS Central and Peripheral Nervous System Effects Encephalopathy and peripheral neuropathy: Cases of encephalopathy and peripheral neuropathy (including optic neuropathy) have been reported with metronidazole.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity Metronidazole tablet are contraindicated in patients with a prior history of hypersensitivity to metronidazole or other nitroimidazole derivatives. In patients with trichomoniasis, metronidazole tablet are contraindicated during the first trimester of pregnancy (see PRECAUTIONS ). Psychotic Reaction with Disulfiram Use of oral metronidazole is associated with psychotic reactions in alcoholic patients who were using disulfiram concurrently. Do not administer metronidazole to patients who have taken disulfiram within the last two weeks (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Interaction with Alcohol Use of oral metronidazole is associated with a disulfiram-like reaction to alcohol, including abdominal cramps, nausea, vomiting, headaches, and flushing. Discontinue consumption of alcohol or products containing propylene glycol during and for at least three days after therapy with metronidazole (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Cockayne Syndrome Metronidazole Tablets are contraindicated in patients with Cockayne syndrome. Severe irreversible hepatotoxicity/acute liver failure with fatal outcomes have been reported after initiation of metronidazole in patients with Cockayne syndrome (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Metronidazole gel USP (topical), 0.75%, is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity lo metronidazole, parabens, or other ingredients of the formulation. CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity Metronidazole tablets are contraindicated in patients with a prior history of hypersensitivity to metronidazole or other nitroimidazole derivatives. In patients with trichomoniasis, metronidazole tablets are contraindicated during the first trimester of pregnancy (see PRECAUTIONS ). Severe irreversible hepatotoxicity/acute liver failure with fatal outcomes have been reported after initiation of metronidazole in patients with Cockayne syndrome (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) . CONTRAINDICATIONS Metronidazole vaginal gel is contraindicated in patients with a prior history of hypersensitivity to metronidazole, parabens, other ingredients of the formulation, or other nitroimidazole derivatives. CONTRAINDICATIONS: Metronidazole topical cream is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to metronidazole, or other ingredients of the formulation. CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity Metronidazole tablets USP is contraindicated in patients with a prior history of hypersensitivity to metronidazole or other nitroimidazole derivatives. In patients with trichomoniasis, metronidazole tablets is contraindicated during the first trimester of pregnancy (see PRECAUTIONS ). Do not administer metronidazole to patients who have taken disulfiram within the last two weeks (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Discontinue consumption of alcohol or products containing propylene glycol during and for at least three days after therapy with metronidazole (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ).
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Disulfiram Psychotic reactions have been reported in alcoholic patients who are using metronidazole and disulfiram concurrently. Metronidazole should not be given to patients who have taken disulfiram within the last two weeks (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Alcoholic Beverages Abdominal cramps, nausea, vomiting, headaches, and flushing may occur if alcoholic beverages or products containing propylene glycol are consumed during or following metronidazole therapy (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Warfarin and other Oral Anticoagulants Metronidazole has been reported to potentiate the anticoagulant effect of warfarin and other oral coumarin anticoagulants, resulting in a prolongation of prothrombin time. When metronidazole is prescribed for patients on this type of anticoagulant therapy, prothrombin time and INR should be carefully monitored. Lithium In patients stabilized on relatively high doses of lithium, short-term metronidazole therapy has been associated with elevation of serum lithium and, in a few cases, signs of lithium toxicity. Serum lithium and serum creatinine levels should be obtained several days after beginning metronidazole to detect any increase that may precede clinical symptoms of lithium intoxication. Busulfan Metronidazole has been reported to increase plasma concentrations of busulfan, which can result in an increased risk for serious busulfan toxicity. Metronidazole should not be administered concomitantly with busulfan unless the benefit outweighs the risk. If no therapeutic alternatives to metronidazole are available, and concomitant administration with busulfan is medically needed, frequent monitoring of busulfan plasma concentration should be performed and the busulfan dose should be adjusted accordingly. Drugs that Inhibit CYP450 Enzymes The simultaneous administration of drugs that decrease microsomal liver enzyme activity, such as cimetidine, may prolong the half-life and decrease plasma clearance of metronidazole. Drugs that Induce CYP450 Enzymes The simultaneous administration of drugs that induce microsomal liver enzymes, such as phenytoin or phenobarbital, may accelerate the elimination of metronidazole, resulting in reduced plasma levels; impaired clearance of phenytoin has also been reported. Drugs that Prolong the QT interval QT prolongation has been reported, particularly when metronidazole was administered with drugs with the potential for prolonging the QT interval. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Metronidazole may interfere with certain types of determinations of serum chemistry values, such as aspartate aminotransferase (AST, SGOT), alanine aminotransferase (ALT, SGPT), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), triglycerides, and glucose hexokinase. Values of zero may be observed. All of the assays in which interference has been reported involve enzymatic coupling of the assay to oxidation-reduction of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+ NADH). Interference is due to the similarity in absorbance peaks of NADH (340 nm) and metronidazole (322 nm) at pH 7 . Drug interactions Oral metronidazole has been reported to potentiate the anticoagulant effect of coumarin and warfarin resulting in a prolongation of prothrombin time. The effect of topical metronidazole on prothrombin time is not known. Metronidazole should not be given to patients who have taken disulfiram within the last two weeks (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) . All of the assays in which interference has been reported involve enzymatic coupling of the assay to oxidation-reduction of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD + NADH). Interference is due to the similarity in absorbance peaks of NADH (340 nm) and metronidazole (322 nm) at pH 7. Drug Interactions Oral metronidazole has been reported to potentiate the anticoagulant effect of warfarin and other coumarin anticoagulants, resulting in a prolongation of prothrombin time. This possible drug interaction should be considered when metronidazole vaginal gel is prescribed for patients on this type of anticoagulant therapy. In patients stabilized on relatively high doses of lithium, short-term oral metronidazole therapy has been associated with elevation of serum lithium levels and, in a few cases, signs of lithium toxicity. Use of cimetidine with oral metronidazole may prolong the half-life and decrease plasma clearance of metronidazole. Drug Interactions: Oral metronidazole has been reported to potentiate the anticoagulant effect of warfarin and coumarin anticoagulants, resulting in a prolongation of prothrombin time. Alcoholic Beverages Abdominal cramps, nausea, vomiting, headaches, and flushing may occur if alcoholic beverages or products containing propylene glycol are consumed during or following metronidazole therapy (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) . All of the assays in which interference has been reported involve enzymatic coupling of the assay to oxidation-reduction of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD + ↔ NADH).

=== TOPIRAMATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Topiramate tablets are indicated for: Epilepsy: initial monotherapy for the treatment of partial-onset or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 2 years of age and older (1.1); adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures, primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures, or seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome in patients 2 years of age and older ( 1.2 ) Preventive treatment of migraine in patients 12 years of age and older ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Monotherapy Epilepsy Topiramate tablets are indicated as initial monotherapy for the treatment of partial-onset or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 2 years of age and older. 1.2 Adjunctive Therapy Epilepsy Topiramate tablets are indicated as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures, primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures, and seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome in patients 2 years of age and older. 1.3 Migraine Topiramate tablets are indicated for the preventive treatment of migraine in patients 12 years of age and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Topiramate is indicated for: Epilepsy: initial monotherapy for the treatment of partial-onset or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 2 years of age and older (1.1); adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures, primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures, or seizures associated with Lennox- Gastaut syndrome in patients 2 years of age and older (1.2) Preventive treatment of migraine in patients 12 years of age and older (1.3) 1.1 Monotherapy Epilepsy Topiramate tablets are indicated as initial monotherapy for the treatment of partial-onset or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 2 years of age and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Topiramate oral solution is indicated for: • Epilepsy: Initial monotherapy for the treatment of partial-onset or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 2 years of age and older ( 1.1 ); adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures, primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures, or seizures associated with Lennox- Gastaut syndrome in patients 2 years of age and older ( 1.2 ). • Preventive treatment of migraine in patients 12 years of age and older ( 1.3 ). 1.1 Monotherapy Epilepsy Topiramate oral solution is indicated as initial monotherapy for the treatment of partial-onset or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 2 years of age and older. 1.2 Adjunctive Therapy Epilepsy Topiramate oral solution is indicated as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures, primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures, and seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome in patients 2 years of age and older. 1.3 Migraine Topiramate oral solution is indicated for the preventive treatment of migraine in patients 12 years of age and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Topiramate is indicated for: Epilepsy: initial monotherapy for the treatment of partial-onset or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 2 years of age and older ( 1.1 ); adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures, primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures, or seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome in patients 2 years of age and older ( 1.2 ) Preventive treatment of migraine in patients 12 years of age and older ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Monotherapy Epilepsy Topiramate tablets and topiramate capsules are indicated as initial monotherapy for the treatment of partial-onset or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 2 years of age and older. 1.2 Adjunctive Therapy Epilepsy Topiramate tablets and topiramate capsules are indicated as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures, primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures, and seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome in patients 2 years of age and older. 1.3 Migraine Topiramate tablets and topiramate capsules are indicated for the preventive treatment of migraine in patients 12 years of age and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Topiramate tablets are indicated for: Epilepsy: initial monotherapy for the treatment of partial-onset or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 2 years of age and older ( 1.1 ); adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures, primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures, or seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome in patients 2 years of age and older ( 1.2 ) Preventive treatment of migraine in patients 12 years of age and older ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Monotherapy Epilepsy Topiramate tablets are indicated as initial monotherapy for the treatment of partial-onset or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 2 years of age and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Topiramate extended-release capsules are indicated for: Epilepsy: initial monotherapy for the treatment of partial-onset or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 6 years of age and older ( 1.1 ); adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset, primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures, or seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) in patients 6 years of age and older ( 1.2 ) Preventive treatment of migraine in patients 12 years of age and older ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Monotherapy Epilepsy Topiramate extended-release capsules are indicated as initial monotherapy for the treatment of partial-onset or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 6 years of age and older [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . 1.2 Adjunctive Therapy Epilepsy Topiramate extended-release capsules are indicated as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures, primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures, and seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome in patients 6 years of age and older [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . 1.3 Migraine Topiramate extended-release capsules are indicated for the preventive treatment of migraine in patients 12 years of age and older [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )] .
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Topiramate tablets initial dose, titration, and recommended maintenance dose varies by indication and age group. See Full Prescribing Information for recommended dosage, and dosing considerations in patients with renal impairment, geriatric patients, and patients undergoing hemodialysis ( 2.1 , 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6 ) 2.1 Dosing in Monotherapy Epilepsy Adults and Pediatric Patients 10 Years of Age and Older The recommended dose for topiramate tablets monotherapy in adults and pediatric patients 10 years of age and older is 400 mg/day in two divided doses. The dose should be achieved by titration according to the following schedule (Table 1): Table 1: Monotherapy Titration Schedule for Adults and Pediatric Patients 10 years and older Morning Dose Evening Dose Week 1 25 mg 25 mg Week 2 50 mg 50 mg Week 3 75 mg 75 mg Week 4 100 mg 100 mg Week 5 150 mg 150 mg Week 6 200 mg 200 mg Pediatric Patients 2 to 9 Years of Age Dosing in patients 2 to 9 years of age is based on weight. During the titration period, the initial dose of topiramate tablets is 25 mg/day nightly for the first week. Based upon tolerability, the dosage can be increased to 50 mg/day (25 mg twice daily) in the second week. Dosage can be increased by 25 to 50 mg/day each subsequent week as tolerated. Titration to the minimum maintenance dose should be attempted over 5 to 7 weeks of the total titration period. Based upon tolerability and clinical response, additional titration to a higher dose (up to the maximum maintenance dose) can be attempted at 25 to 50 mg/day weekly increments. The total daily dose should not exceed the maximum maintenance dose for each range of body weight (Table 2). Table 2: Monotherapy Target Total Daily Maintenance Dosing for Patients 2 to 9 Years of Age Weight (kg) Total Daily Dose (mg/day)* Minimum Maintenance Dose Total Daily Dose (mg/day)* Maximum Maintenance Dose Up to 11 150 250 12 to 22 200 300 23 to 31 200 350 32 to 38 250 350 Greater than 38 250 400 * Administered in two equally divided doses 2.2 Dosing in Adjunctive Therapy Epilepsy Adults (17 Years of Age and Older) The recommended total daily dose of topiramate tablets as adjunctive therapy in adults with partial-onset seizures or Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome is 200 to 400 mg/day in two divided doses, and 400 mg/day in two divided doses as adjunctive treatment in adults with primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Topiramate tablets should be initiated at 25 to 50 mg/day, followed by titration to an effective dose in increments of 25 to 50 mg/day every week. Titrating in increments of 25 mg/day every week may delay the time to reach an effective dose. Doses above 400 mg/day have not been shown to improve responses in adults with partial-onset seizures. Pediatric Patients 2 to 16 Years of Age The recommended total daily dose of topiramate tablets as adjunctive therapy for pediatric patients 2 to 16 years of age with partial-onset seizures, primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures, or seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome is approximately 5 to 9 mg/kg/day in two divided doses. Titration should begin at 25 mg/day (or less, based on a range of 1 to 3 mg/kg/day) nightly for the first week. The dosage should then be increased at 1- or 2-week intervals by increments of 1 to 3 mg/kg/day (administered in two divided doses), to achieve optimal clinical response. Dose titration should be guided by clinical outcome. The total daily dose should not exceed 400 mg/day. 2.3 Dosing for the Preventive Treatment of Migraine The recommended total daily dose of topiramate tablets as treatment for patients 12 years of age and older for the preventive treatment of migraine is 100 mg/day administered in two divided doses (Table 3). The recommended titration rate for topiramate tablets for the preventive treatment of migraine is as follows: Table 3: Preventive Treatment of Migraine Titration Schedule for Patients 12 Years of Age and Older Morning Dose Evening Dose Week 1 None 25 mg Week 2 25 mg 25 mg Week 3 25 mg 50 mg Week 4 50 mg 50 mg Dose and titration rate should be guided by clinical outcome. If required, longer intervals between dose adjustments can be used. 2.4 Administration Information Topiramate tablets can be taken without regard to meals. Topiramate Tablets Because of the bitter taste, tablets should not be broken. 2.5 Dosing in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 70 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), one-half of the usual adult dose of topiramate tablets is recommended [see Use in Specific Populations 8.5 8.6 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.6 Dosing in Patients Undergoing Hemodialysis To avoid rapid drops in topiramate plasma concentration during hemodialysis, a supplemental dose of topiramate tablets may be required. The actual adjustment should take into account 1) the duration of dialysis period, 2) the clearance rate of the dialysis system being used, and 3) the effective renal clearance of topiramate in the patient being dialyzed [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Topiramate initial dose, titration, and recommended maintenance dose varies by indication and age group. See Full Prescribing Information for recommended dosage, and dosing considerations in patients with renal impairment, geriatric patients, and patients undergoing hemodialysis (2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6) 2.1 Dosing in Monotherapy Epilepsy Adults and Pediatric Patients 10 Years of Age and Older The recommended dose for topiramate monotherapy in adults and pediatric patients 10 years of age and older is 400 mg/day in two divided doses. During the titration period, the initial dose of topiramate is 25 mg/day nightly for the first week. Table 2: Monotherapy Target Total Daily Maintenance Dosing for Patients 2 to 9 Years of Age Weight (kg) Total Daily Dose (mg/day)* Minimum Maintenance Dose Total Daily Dose (mg/day)* Maximum Maintenance Dose Up to 11 150 250 12 to 22 200 300 23 to 31 200 350 32 to 38 250 350 Greater than 38 250 400 * Administered in two equally divided doses 2.2 Dosing in Adjunctive Therapy Epilepsy Adults (17 Years of Age and Older) The recommended total daily dose of topiramate as adjunctive therapy in adults with partial onset seizures or Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome is 200 to 400 mg/day in two divided doses, and 400 mg/day in two divided doses as adjunctive treatment in adults with primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Topiramate should be initiated at 25 to 50 mg/day, followed by titration to an effective dose in increments of 25 to 50 mg/day every week. 2.3 Dosing for the Preventive Treatment of Migraine The recommended total daily dose of topiramate as treatment for patients 12 years of age and older for the preventive treatment of migraine is 100 mg/day administered in two divided doses (Table 3). The recommended titration rate for topiramate for the preventive treatment of migraine is as follows: Table 3: Preventive Treatment of Migraine Titration Schedule for Patients 12 Years of Age and Older Morning Dose Evening Dose Week 1 None 25 mg Week 2 25 mg 25 mg Week 3 25 mg 50 mg Week 4 50 mg 50 mg Dose and titration rate should be guided by clinical outcome. Because of the bitter taste, tablets should not be broken. 2.5 Dosing in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 70 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), one-half of the usual adult dose of topiramate is recommended [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5, 8.6), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.6 Dosing in Patients Undergoing Hemodialysis To avoid rapid drops in topiramate plasma concentration during hemodialysis, a supplemental dose of topiramate may be required. The actual adjustment should take into account 1) the duration of dialysis period, 2) the clearance rate of the dialysis system being used, and 3) the effective renal clearance of topiramate in the patient being dialyzed [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Topiramate oral solution initial dose, titration, and recommended maintenance dose varies by indication and age group. See Full Prescribing Information for recommended dosage, and dosing considerations in patients with renal impairment, geriatric patients, and patients undergoing hemodialysis ( 2.1 , 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6 ). 2.1 Dosing in Monotherapy Epilepsy Adults and Pediatric Patients 10 Years of Age and Older The recommended dose for topiramate oral solution monotherapy in adults and pediatric patients 10 years of age and older is 400 mg/day in two divided doses. During the titration period, the initial dose of topiramate oral solution is 25 mg/day nightly for the first week. Table 2: Monotherapy Target Total Daily Maintenance Dosing for Patients 2 to 9 Years of Age Weight (kg) Total Daily Dose (mg/day)* Minimum Maintenance Dose Total Daily Dose (mg/day)* Maximum Maintenance Dose Up to 11 150 250 12 to 22 200 300 23 to 31 200 350 32 to 38 250 350 Greater than 38 250 400 * Administered in two equally divided doses 2.2 Dosing in Adjunctive Therapy Epilepsy Adults (17 Years of Age and Older) The recommended total daily dose of topiramate oral solution as adjunctive therapy in adults with partial onset seizures or Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome is 200 to 400 mg/day in two divided doses, and 400 mg/day in two divided doses as adjunctive treatment in adults with primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Topiramate oral solution should be initiated at 25 to 50 mg/day, followed by titration to an effective dose in increments of 25 to 50 mg/day every week. Pediatric Patients 2 to 16 Years of Age The recommended total daily dose of topiramate oral solution as adjunctive therapy for pediatric patients 2 to 16 years of age with partial-onset seizures, primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures, or seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome is approximately 5 to 9 mg/kg/day in two divided doses. 2.3 Dosing for the Preventive Treatment of Migraine The recommended total daily dose of topiramate oral solution as treatment for patients 12 years of age and older for the preventive treatment of migraine is 100 mg/day administered in two divided doses (Table 3). The recommended titration rate for topiramate oral solution for the preventive treatment of migraine is as follows: Table 3: Preventive Treatment of Migraine Titration Schedule for Patients 12 years and older Morning Dose Evening Dose Week 1 None 25 mg Week 2 25 mg 25 mg Week 3 25 mg 50 mg Week 4 50 mg 50 mg Dose and titration rate should be guided by clinical outcome. 2.4 Administration Information Topiramate oral solution can be taken without regard to meals. A calibrated measuring device is recommended to measure and deliver the prescribed dose accurately. A household teaspoon or tablespoon is not an adequate measuring device. Discard the unused portion after 90 days [see How Supplied/Storage and Handling ( 16.2 )] . 2.5 Dosing in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 70 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), one-half of the usual adult dose of topiramate oral solution is recommended [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 , 8.6 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.6 Dosing in Patients Undergoing Hemodialysis To avoid rapid drops in topiramate plasma concentration during hemodialysis, a supplemental dose of topiramate oral solution may be required. See Full Prescribing Information for recommended dosage, and dosing considerations in patients with renal impairment, geriatric patients, and patients undergoing hemodialysis ( 2.1 , 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6 ) 2.1 Dosing in Monotherapy Epilepsy Adults and Pediatric Patients 10 Years of Age and Older The recommended dose for topiramate monotherapy in adults and pediatric patients 10 years of age and older is 400 mg/day in two divided doses. The dose should be achieved by titration according to the following schedule (Table 1): Table 1 Monotherapy Titration Schedule for Adults and Pediatric Patients 10 years and older Morning Dose Evening Dose Week 1 25 mg 25 mg Week 2 50 mg 50 mg Week 3 75 mg 75 mg Week 4 100 mg 100 mg Week 5 150 mg 150 mg Week 6 200 mg 200 mg Pediatric Patients 2 to 9 Years of Age Dosing in patients 2 to 9 years of age is based on weight. Dosage can be increased by 25 mg/day to 50 mg/day each subsequent week as tolerated. Titration to the minimum maintenance dose should be attempted over 5 weeks to 7 weeks of the total titration period. Based upon tolerability and clinical response, additional titration to a higher dose (up to the maximum maintenance dose) can be attempted at 25 mg/day to 50 mg/day weekly increments. The total daily dose should not exceed the maximum maintenance dose for each range of body weight ( Table 2 ). Table 2 Monotherapy Target Total Daily Maintenance Dosing for Patients 2 to 9 Years of Age * Administered in two equally divided doses Weight (kg) Total Daily Dose (mg/day)* Minimum Maintenance Dose Total Daily Dose (mg/day)* Maximum Maintenance Dose Up to 11 150 250 12 to 22 200 300 23 to 31 200 350 32 to 38 250 350 Greater than 38 250 400 2.2 Dosing in Adjunctive Therapy Epilepsy Adults (17 Years of Age and Older) The recommended total daily dose of topiramate as adjunctive therapy in adults with partial-onset seizures or Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome is 200 mg/day to 400 mg/day in two divided doses, and 400 mg/day in two divided doses as adjunctive treatment in adults with primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Topiramate should be initiated at 25 mg/day to 50 mg/day, followed by titration to an effective dose in increments of 25 mg/day to 50 mg/day every week. Pediatric Patients 2 to 16 Years of Age The recommended total daily dose of topiramate as adjunctive therapy for pediatric patients 2 years to 16 years of age with partial-onset seizures, primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures, or seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome is approximately 5 mg/kg/day to 9 mg/kg/day in two divided doses. Titration should begin at 25 mg/day (or less, based on a range of 1 mg/kg/day to 3 mg/kg/day) nightly for the first week. The dosage should then be increased at 1- or 2-week intervals by increments of 1 mg/kg/day to 3 mg/kg/day (administered in two divided doses), to achieve optimal clinical response. The recommended titration rate for topiramate for the preventive treatment of migraine is as follows: Table 3 Preventive Treatment of Migraine Titration Schedule for Patients 12 Years of Age and Older Morning Dose Evening Dose Week 1 None 25 mg Week 2 25 mg 25 mg Week 3 25 mg 50 mg Week 4 50 mg 50 mg Dose and titration rate should be guided by clinical outcome. 2.4 Administration Information Topiramate can be taken without regard to meals. Topiramate Capsules Topiramate capsules may be swallowed whole or may be administered by carefully opening the capsule and sprinkling the entire contents on a small amount (teaspoon) of soft food. This drug/food mixture should be swallowed immediately and not chewed. It should not be stored for future use. 2.5 Dosing in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 70 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), one-half of the usual adult dose of topiramate is recommended [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 , 8.6 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . During the titration period, the initial dose of topiramate tablet is 25 mg/day nightly for the first week. Dosage can be increased by 25-50 mg/day each subsequent week as tolerated. Titration to the minimum maintenance dose should be attempted over 5-7 weeks of the total titration period. Based upon tolerability and clinical response, additional titration to a higher dose (up to the maximum maintenance dose) can be attempted at 25-50 mg/day weekly increments. Table 2: Monotherapy Target Total Daily Maintenance Dosing for Patients 2 to 9 Years of Age Weight (kg) Total Daily Dose (mg/day)* Minimum Maintenance Dose Total Daily Dose (mg/day)* Maximum Maintenance Dose Up to 11 150 250 12 – 22 200 300 23 – 31 200 350 32 – 38 250 350 Greater than 38 250 400 * Administered in two equally divided doses 2.2 Dosing in Adjunctive Therapy Epilepsy Adults (17 Years of Age and Older) The recommended total daily dose of topiramate tablets as adjunctive therapy in adults with partial onset seizures or Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome is 200 to 400 mg/day in two divided doses, and 400 mg/day in two divided doses as adjunctive treatment in adults with primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures. 2.5 Dosing in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 70 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), one-half of the usual adult dose of topiramate tablets is recommended [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 , 8.6 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Topiramate extended-release capsules initial dose, titration, and recommended maintenance dose varies by indication and age group. See Full Prescribing Information for recommended dosage, and dosing considerations in patients with renal impairment, geriatric patients, and patients undergoing hemodialysis ( 2.1 , 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6 ) Swallow capsule whole and intact. Do not sprinkle on food, chew, or crush ( 2.7 ) 2.1 Dosing in Monotherapy Epilepsy Adults and Pediatric Patients 10 Years of Age and Older with Partial Onset or Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures The recommended dose for topiramate extended-release capsules monotherapy in adults and in pediatric patients 10 years of age and older is 400 mg orally once daily. Titrate topiramate extended-release capsules according to the following schedule: Week 1: 50 mg once daily Week 2: 100 mg once daily Week 3: 150 mg once daily Week 4: 200 mg once daily Week 5: 300 mg once daily Week 6: 400 mg once daily Pediatric Patients Ages 6 to 9 Years of Age Dosing in patients 6 to 9 years of age is based on weight. During the titration period, the initial dose of topiramate extended-release capsules is 25 mg/day nightly for the first week. Based upon tolerability, the dosage can be increased to 50 mg/day in the second week. The total daily dose should not exceed the maximum maintenance dose for each range of body weight (see Table 1). Table 1: Monotherapy Target Total Daily Maintenance Dosing for Patients 6 to 9 Years of Age Weight (kg) Total Daily Dose (mg/day) Minimum Maintenance Dose Total Daily Dose (mg/day) Maximum Maintenance Dose Up to 11 150 250 12 to 22 200 300 23 to 31 200 350 32 to 38 250 350 Greater than 38 250 400 2.2 Dosing in Adjunctive Therapy Epilepsy Adults (17 Years of Age and Older) The recommended total daily dose of topiramate extended-release capsules as adjunctive therapy in adults with partial-onset seizures or Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome is 200 mg to 400 mg orally once daily and with primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures is 400 mg orally once daily. Initiate therapy at 25 mg to 50 mg once daily followed by titration to an effective dose in increments of 25 mg to 50 mg every week. Pediatric Patients 6 to 16 Years of Age The recommended total daily dose of topiramate extended-release capsules as adjunctive therapy for patients 6 to 16 years of age with partial-onset seizures, primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures, or seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome is approximately 5 mg/kg to 9 mg/kg orally once daily. Begin titration at 25 mg once daily (or less, based on a range of 1 mg/kg/day to 3 mg/kg/day) given nightly for the first week. Subsequently, increase the dosage at 1- or 2-week intervals by increments of 1 mg/kg/day to 3 mg/kg/day to achieve optimal clinical response. 2.3 Dosing for the Preventive Treatment of Migraine The recommended total daily dose of topiramate extended-release capsules as treatment for the preventive treatment of migraine in patients 12 years of age and older is 100 mg once daily. Titrate topiramate extended-release capsules for the preventive treatment of migraine according to the following schedule: Week 1: 25 mg once daily Week 2: 50 mg once daily Week 3: 75 mg once daily Week 4: 100 mg once daily Dose and titration rate should be guided by clinical outcome. 2.4 Administration With Alcohol Alcohol use should be completely avoided within 6 hours prior to and 6 hours after topiramate extended-release capsules administration [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . 2.5 Dose Modifications in Patients With Renal Impairment In patients with renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 70 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), one-half of the usual adult dose of topiramate extended-release capsules are recommended [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 , 8.6 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.6 Dosage Modifications in Patients Undergoing Hemodialysis To avoid rapid drops in topiramate plasma concentration during hemodialysis, a supplemental dose of topiramate extended-release capsules may be required. 2.7 Administration Instructions Topiramate extended-release capsules can be taken without regard to meals. Swallow capsule whole and intact. Do not sprinkle on food, chew, or crush.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None. None None (4) None ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None ( 4 ) None. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None ( 4 ). None. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Topiramate extended-release capsules are contraindicated in patients: With recent alcohol use (i.e., within 6 hours prior to and 6 hours after topiramate extended-release capsules use) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] With recent alcohol use, i.e., within 6 hours prior to and 6 hours after topiramate extended-release capsules use ( 4 , 5.5 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Oral contraceptives: decreased contraceptive efficacy and increased breakthrough bleeding, especially at doses greater than 200 mg/day ( 7.4 ) Monitor lithium levels if lithium is used with high-dose topiramate ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Antiepileptic Drugs Concomitant administration of phenytoin or carbamazepine with topiramate resulted in a clinically significant decrease in plasma concentrations of topiramate when compared to topiramate given alone. A dosage adjustment may be needed [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Concomitant administration of valproic acid and topiramate has been associated with hypothermia and hyperammonemia with and without encephalopathy. Examine blood ammonia levels in patients in whom the onset of hypothermia has been reported [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 , 5.14 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.2 Other Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Concomitant use of topiramate, a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, with any other carbonic anhydrase inhibitor (e.g., zonisamide or acetazolamide) may increase the severity of metabolic acidosis and may also increase the risk of kidney stone formation. Therefore, patients given topiramate concomitantly with another carbonic anhydrase inhibitor should be monitored particularly closely for the appearance or worsening of metabolic acidosis [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.3 CNS Depressants Concomitant administration of topiramate and alcohol or other CNS depressant drugs has not been evaluated in clinical studies. Because of the potential of topiramate to cause CNS depression, as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions, topiramate should be used with extreme caution if used in combination with alcohol and other CNS depressants. 7.4 Oral Contraceptives The possibility of decreased contraceptive efficacy and increased breakthrough bleeding may occur in patients taking combination oral contraceptive products with topiramate. Patients taking estrogen-containing contraceptives should be asked to report any change in their bleeding patterns. Contraceptive efficacy can be decreased even in the absence of breakthrough bleeding [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.5 Hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) Topiramate C max and AUC increased when HCTZ was added to topiramate. The clinical significance of this change is unknown. The addition of HCTZ to topiramate may require a decrease in the topiramate dose [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.6 Pioglitazone A decrease in the exposure of pioglitazone and its active metabolites were noted with the concurrent use of pioglitazone and topiramate in a clinical trial. The clinical relevance of these observations is unknown; however, when topiramate is added to pioglitazone therapy or pioglitazone is added to topiramate therapy, careful attention should be given to the routine monitoring of patients for adequate control of their diabetic disease state [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.7 Lithium An increase in systemic exposure of lithium following topiramate doses of up to 600 mg/day can occur. Lithium levels should be monitored when co-administered with high-dose topiramate [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.8 Amitriptyline Some patients may experience a large increase in amitriptyline concentration in the presence of topiramate and any adjustments in amitriptyline dose should be made according to the patient's clinical response and not on the basis of plasma levels [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Contraceptives: decreased contraceptive efficacy and increased breakthrough bleeding, especially at doses greater than 200 mg/day (7.4) • Monitor lithium levels if lithium is used with high-dose topiramate (7.7) 7.1 Antiepileptic Drugs Concomitant administration of phenytoin or carbamazepine with topiramate resulted in a clinically significant decrease in plasma concentrations of topiramate when compared to topiramate given alone. A dosage adjustment may be needed [see Dosage and Administration (2.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Examine blood ammonia levels in patients in whom the onset of hypothermia has been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12, 5.14), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Therefore, patients given topiramate concomitantly with another carbonic anhydrase inhibitor should be monitored particularly closely for the appearance or worsening of metabolic acidosis [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7.4 Contraceptives The possibility of decreased contraceptive efficacy and increased breakthrough bleeding may occur in patients taking contraceptive products with topiramate. Patients taking estrogen-containing or progestin-only contraceptives should be asked to report any change in their bleeding patterns. Contraceptive efficacy can be decreased even in the absence of breakthrough bleeding [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.5 Hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) Topiramate Cmax and AUC increased when HCTZ was added to topiramate. The addition of HCTZ to topiramate may require a decrease in the topiramate dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . The clinical relevance of these observations is unknown; however, when topiramate is added to pioglitazone therapy or pioglitazone is added to topiramate therapy, careful attention should be given to the routine monitoring of patients for adequate control of their diabetic disease state [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Lithium levels should be monitored when coadministered with high-dose topiramate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7.8 Amitriptyline Some patients may experience a large increase in amitriptyline concentration in the presence of topiramate and any adjustments in amitriptyline dose should be made according to the patient's clinical response and not on the basis of plasma levels [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Contraceptives: decreased contraceptive efficacy and increased breakthrough bleeding, especially at doses greater than 200 mg/day ( 7.4 ) Monitor lithium levels if lithium is used with high-dose topiramate ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Antiepileptic Drugs Concomitant administration of phenytoin or carbamazepine with topiramate resulted in a clinically significant decrease in plasma concentrations of topiramate when compared to topiramate given alone. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Contraceptives: decreased contraceptive efficacy and increased breakthrough bleeding, especially at doses greater than 200 mg/day ( 7.4 ). • Monitor lithium levels if lithium is used with high-dose topiramate oral solution ( 7.7 ). 7.1 Antiepileptic Drugs Concomitant administration of phenytoin or carbamazepine with topiramate resulted in a clinically significant decrease in plasma concentrations of topiramate when compared to topiramate given alone. A dosage adjustment may be needed [see Dosage and Administration (2.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Examine blood ammonia levels in patients in whom the onset of hypothermia has been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12, 5.14), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7.2 Other Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Concomitant use of topiramate oral solution, a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, with any other carbonic anhydrase inhibitor (e.g., zonisamide or acetazolamide) may increase the severity of metabolic acidosis and may also increase the risk of kidney stone formation. Therefore, patients given topiramate oral solution concomitantly with another carbonic anhydrase inhibitor should be monitored particularly closely for the appearance or worsening of metabolic acidosis [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Because of the potential of topiramate to cause CNS depression, as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions, topiramate oral solution should be used with extreme caution if used in combination with alcohol and other CNS depressants. 7.4 Contraceptives The possibility of decreased contraceptive efficacy and increased breakthrough bleeding may occur in patients taking contraceptive products with topiramate oral solution. Patients taking estrogen containing or progestin-only contraceptives should be asked to report any change in their bleeding patterns. Lithium levels should be monitored when co-administered with high dose topiramate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Therefore, patients given topiramate concomitantly with another carbonic anhydrase inhibitor should be monitored particularly closely for the appearance or worsening of metabolic acidosis [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Contraceptive efficacy can be decreased even in the absence of breakthrough bleeding [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. The addition of HCTZ to topiramate may require a decrease in the topiramate dose [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Lithium levels should be monitored when coadministered with high-dose topiramate [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Contraceptives: decreased contraceptive efficacy and increased breakthrough bleeding, especially at doses greater than 200 mg/day ( 7.4 ) Monitor lithium levels if lithium is used with high-dose topiramate tablets ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Antiepileptic Drugs Concomitant administration of phenytoin or carbamazepine with topiramate resulted in a clinically significant decrease in plasma concentrations of topiramate when compared to topiramate given alone. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Oral contraceptives: Decreased contraceptive efficacy and increased breakthrough bleeding, especially at doses greater than 200 mg per day ( 7.5 ) Monitor lithium levels if lithium is used with high-dose topiramate extended-release capsules ( 7.8 ) 7.1 Alcohol Alcohol use is contraindicated within 6 hours prior to and 6 hours after topiramate extended-release capsules administration [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . 7.2 Antiepileptic Drugs Concomitant administration of phenytoin or carbamazepine with topiramate resulted in a clinically significant decrease in plasma concentrations of topiramate when compared to topiramate given alone. A dosage adjustment may be needed [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Examine blood ammonia levels in patients in whom the onset of hypothermia has been reported [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 , 5.15 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.3 Other Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Concomitant use of topiramate, a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, with any other carbonic anhydrase inhibitor (e.g., zonisamide or acetazolamide) may increase the severity of metabolic acidosis and may also increase the risk of kidney stone formation. Patients should be monitored for the appearance or worsening of metabolic acidosis when topiramate extended-release capsules is given concomitantly with another carbonic anhydrase inhibitor [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.4 CNS Depressants Concomitant administration of topiramate with other CNS depressant drugs or alcohol has not been evaluated in clinical studies. Because of the potential of topiramate to cause CNS depression, as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse reactions, topiramate extended-release capsules should be used with extreme caution if used in combination with alcohol and other CNS depressants [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . 7.5 Oral Contraceptives The possibility of decreased contraceptive efficacy and increased breakthrough bleeding may occur in patients taking combination oral contraceptive products with topiramate extended-release capsules. 7.6 Hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) Topiramate C max and AUC increased when HCTZ was added to immediate-release topiramate. The addition of HCTZ to topiramate extended-release capsules may require a decrease in the topiramate extended-release capsules dose [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.7 Pioglitazone A decrease in the exposure of pioglitazone and its active metabolites were noted with the concurrent use of pioglitazone and immediate-release topiramate in a clinical trial. The clinical relevance of these observations is unknown; however, when topiramate extended-release capsules is added to pioglitazone therapy or pioglitazone is added to topiramate extended-release capsules therapy, careful attention should be given to the routine monitoring of patients for adequate control of their diabetic disease state [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.8 Lithium An increase in systemic exposure of lithium following topiramate doses of up to 600 mg/day can occur. Lithium levels should be monitored when co-administered with high-dose topiramate extended-release capsules [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.9 Amitriptyline Some patients may experience a large increase in amitriptyline concentration in the presence of topiramate extended-release capsules and any adjustments in amitriptyline dose should be made according to the patients’ clinical response and not on the basis of plasma levels [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )].

=== METOPROLOL TARTRATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metoprolol tartrate tablets are a beta-adrenergic blocker indicated for the treatment of: Hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. ( 1.1 ) Angina Pectoris. ( 1.2 ) Myocardial Infarction, to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality when used in conjunction with intravenous metoprolol therapy in patients with definite or suspected acute myocardial infarction in hemodynamically stable patients. ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Hypertension Metoprolol tartrate tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension in adult patients, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure lowers the risk of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including metoprolol. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than 1 drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. Metoprolol tartrate tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. 1.2 Angina Pectoris Metoprolol tartrate tablets are indicated in the long-term treatment of angina pectoris, to reduce angina attacks and to improve exercise tolerance. 1.3 Myocardial Infarction Metoprolol tartrate tablets are indicated in the treatment of hemodynamically stable patients with definite or suspected acute myocardial infarction to reduce cardiovascular mortality when used alone or in conjunction with intravenous metoprolol. 1 IND ICATIONS AND USAGE LOPRESSOR is a beta-adrenergic blocker indicated for the treatment of: Hypertension, to lower blood pressure. ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Hypertension LOPRESSOR is indicated for the treatment of hypertension in adult patients, to lower blood pressure. LOPRESSOR may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. 1.2 Angina Pectoris LOPRESSOR is indicated in the long-term treatment of angina pectoris, to reduce angina attacks and to improve exercise tolerance. 1.3 Myocardial Infarction Lopressor tablets are indicated in the treatment of hemodynamically stable patients with definite or suspected acute myocardial infarction to reduce cardiovascular mortality when used alone or in conjunction with intravenous metoprolol. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metoprolol tartrate is a beta-adrenergic blocker indicated for the treatment of: Hypertension, to lower blood pressure. ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Hypertension Metoprolol tartrate is indicated for the treatment of hypertension in adult patients, to lower blood pressure. Metoprolol tartrate may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. 1.2 Angina Pectoris Metoprolol tartrate is indicated in the long-term treatment of angina pectoris, to reduce angina attacks and to improve exercise tolerance. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metoprolol tartrate injection is indicated in the treatment of definite or suspected acute myocardial infarction in hemodynamically stable patients to reduce cardiovascular mortality when used in conjunction with oral metoprolol maintenance therapy. Metoprolol tartrate injection is a beta-adrenergic receptor inhibitor indicated for the treatment of definite or suspected acute myocardial infarction in hemodynamically stable patients to reduce cardiovascular mortality when used in conjunction with oral metoprolol maintenance therapy ( 1 ). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypertension Metoprolol tartrate tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension. They may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. Angina Pectoris Metoprolol tartrate tablets are indicated in the long-term treatment of angina pectoris. Myocardial Infarction Metoprolol tartrate tablets are indicated in the treatment of hemodynamically stable patients with definite or suspected acute myocardial infarction to reduce cardiovascular mortality when used alone or in conjunction with intravenous metoprolol. Oral Metoprolol tartrate tablets therapy can be initiated after intravenous metoprolol therapy or, alternatively, oral treatment can begin within 3 to 10 days of the acute event. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , CONTRAINDICATIONS , and WARNINGS ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metoprolol tartrate is a beta-adrenergic blocker indicated for the treatment of: • Hypertension, to lower blood pressure. ( 1.1 ) • Angina Pectoris. ( 1.2 ) • Myocardial Infarction, to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality when used in conjunction with intravenous metoprolol therapy in patients with definite or suspected acute myocardial infarction in hemodynamically stable patients. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets, metoprolol succinate, beta-adrenergic blocker indicated for the treatment of: • Hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions.() • Angina Pectoris. () • Heart Failure, to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality and heart failure hospitalizations in patients with heart failure() 1.1 Hypertension Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. 1.2 Angina Pectoris Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets is indicated in the long-term treatment of angina pectoris, to reduce angina attacks and to improve exercise tolerance. 1.3 Heart Failure Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets is indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality and heart-failure hospitalization in patients with heart failure. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metoprolol tartrate tablet is a beta-adrenergic blocker indicated for the treatment of: • Hypertension, to lower blood pressure.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer once daily with food or after a meal. Titrate at weekly or longer intervals as needed and tolerated. ( 2 ) Hypertension: Recommended starting dosage is 100 mg daily, in single or divided doses. ( 2.1 ) Angina Pectoris: Recommended starting dosage is 100 mg daily, given as two divided doses. ( 2.2 ) Myocardial Infarction: The starting dosage depends upon tolerance of intravenous metoprolol, see full prescribing information. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Hypertension Individualize the dosage of metoprolol tartrate tablets. Metoprolol tartrate tablets should be taken with or immediately following meals. The usual initial dosage is 100 mg daily in single or divided doses. Adjust dosage at weekly (or longer) intervals until optimum blood pressure reduction is achieved. In general, the maximum effect of any given dosage level will be apparent after 1 week of therapy. The effective dosage range of metoprolol tartrate tablets is 100 mg to 450 mg per day. Dosages above 450 mg per day have not been studied. While once-daily dosing can maintain a reduction in blood pressure throughout the day, lower doses (especially 100 mg) may not maintain a full effect at the end of the 24-hour period. Larger or more frequent daily doses may be required. Measure blood pressure near the end of the dosing interval to determine whether satisfactory control is being maintained throughout the day. 2.2 Angina Pectoris The dosage of metoprolol tartrate tablets should be individualized. The usual initial dosage is 100 mg daily, given in two divided doses. Gradually increase the dosage at weekly intervals until optimum clinical response has been obtained or there is a pronounced slowing of the heart rate. The effective dosage range of metoprolol tartrate tablets is 100 to 400 mg per day. Dosages above 400 mg per day have not been studied. If treatment is to be discontinued, reduce the dosage gradually over a period of 1 to 2 weeks [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 2.3 Myocardial Infarction See prescribing information of intravenous metoprolol for dosage instructions for intravenous therapy. In patients who tolerate the full intravenous dose, initiate metoprolol tartrate tablets, 50 mg every 6 hours, 15 minutes after the last intravenous dose of metoprolol and continue for 48 hours. In the case of intolerance, reduce dose to 25 mg and administer for 48 hours. Titrate, based on tolerability, to a maintenance dosage of 100 mg twice daily. Continue therapy for at least 3 months. Although the efficacy of metoprolol tartrate tablets beyond 3 months has not been conclusively established, data from studies with other beta-blockers suggest that treatment should be continued for 1 to 3 years. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Hypertension Individualize the dosage of Lopressor tablets. Lopressor tablets should be taken with or immediately following meals. The effective dosage range of Lopressor tablets is 100 mg to 450 mg per day. 2.2 Angina Pectoris The dosage of Lopressor tablets should be individualized. The effective dosage range of Lopressor tablets is 100 to 400 mg per day. If treatment is to be discontinued, reduce the dosage gradually over a period of 1 - 2 weeks [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. In patients who tolerate the full intravenous dose, initiate Lopressor tablets, 50 mg every 6 hours, 15 minutes after the last intravenous dose of metoprolol and continue for 48 hours. Although the efficacy of Lopressor beyond 3 months has not been conclusively established, data from studies with other beta-blockers suggest that treatment should be continued for 1 to 3 years. If treatment is to be discontinued, reduce the dosage gradually over a period of 1 - 2 weeks [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Although the efficacy of Metoprolol tartrate beyond 3 months has not been conclusively established, data from studies with other beta-blockers suggest that treatment should be continued for 1 to 3 years. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Initiate treatment in a coronary care or similar unit immediately after the patient’s hemodynamic condition has stabilized. Begin treatment in this early phase with the intravenous administration of three bolus injections of 5 mg of metoprolol tartrate injection each; give the injections at approximately 2-minute intervals. During the intravenous administration of metoprolol tartrate injection, monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and electrocardiogram. Transition to Oral Metoprolol: Following administration of metoprolol tartrate injection, transition patients to an oral formulation of metoprolol. See prescribing information for oral metoprolol for dose selection. • Initiate therapy in a coronary care or similar unit immediately after the patients hemodynamic condition has stabilized ( 2 ). • Begin treatment with an intravenous administration of three bolus injections of 5 mg each, at approximately 2-minute intervals. Monitor blood pressure, heart rate and electrocardiogram ( 2 ). • Following administration of metoprolol tartrate injection, transition the patient to an oral formulation of metoprolol ( 2 ). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension Individualize the dosage of metoprolol tartrate tablets. The usual initial dosage of metoprolol tartrate tablets is 100 mg daily in single or divided doses, whether used alone or added to a diuretic. Increase the dosage at weekly (or longer) intervals until optimum blood pressure reduction is achieved. In general, the maximum effect of any given dosage level will be apparent after one week of therapy. The effective dosage range of metoprolol tartrate tablets is 100 mg per day to 450 mg per day. While once daily dosing is effective and can maintain a reduction in blood pressure throughout the day, lower doses (especially 100 mg) may not maintain a full effect at the end of the 24-hour period, and larger or more frequent daily doses may be required. This can be evaluated by measuring blood pressure near the end of the dosing interval to determine whether satisfactory control is being maintained throughout the day. Beta 1 selectivity diminishes as the dose of Metoprolol is increased. Angina Pectoris The dosage of metoprolol tartrate tablets should be individualized. The usual initial dosage of metoprolol tartrate tablets is 100 mg daily, given in two divided doses. Gradually increase the dosage at weekly intervals until optimum clinical response has been obtained or there is pronounced slowing of the heart rate. If treatment is to be discontinued, gradually decrease the dosage over a period of 1 to 2 weeks (see WARNINGS ). Myocardial Infarction Early Treatment During the early phase of definite or suspected acute myocardial infarction, initiate treatment with metoprolol tartrate tablets as soon as possible after the patient’s arrival in the hospital. Such treatment should be initiated in a coronary care or similar unit immediately after the patient’s hemodynamic condition has stabilized. Begin treatment in this early phase with the intravenous administration of three bolus injections of 5 mg of metoprolol tartrate each; give the injections at approximately 2 minute intervals. During the intravenous administration of metoprolol, monitor blood pressure, heart rate, and electrocardiogram. In patients who tolerate the full intravenous dose (15 mg), initiate metoprolol tartrate tablets, 50 mg every 6 hours, 15 minutes after the last intravenous dose and continue for 48 hours. Thereafter, the maintenance dosage is 100 mg twice daily (see Late Treatment below). Start patients who appear not to tolerate the full intravenous dose on metoprolol tartrate tablets either 25 mg or 50 mg every 6 hours (depending on the degree of intolerance) 15 minutes after the last intravenous dose or as soon as their clinical condition allows. In patients with severe intolerance, discontinue metoprolol tartrate tablets (see WARNINGS ). Late Treatment Start patients with contraindications to treatment during the early phase of suspected or definite myocardial infarction, patients who appear not to tolerate the full early treatment, and patients in whom the physician wishes to delay therapy for any other reason on metoprolol tartrate tablets, 100 mg twice daily, as soon as their clinical condition allows. Although the efficacy of metoprolol beyond 3 months has not been conclusively established, data from studies with other beta-blockers suggest that treatment should be continued for 1 to 3 years. Special Populations Pediatric Patients No pediatric studies have been performed. The safety and efficacy of metoprolol in pediatric patients have not been established. Renal Impairment No dose adjustment of metoprolol tartrate tablets is required in patients with renal impairment. Hepatic Impairment Metoprolol blood levels are likely to increase substantially in patients with hepatic impairment. Therefore, metoprolol tartrate tablets should be initiated at low doses with cautious gradual dose titration according to clinical response. Geriatric Patients (> 65 Years) In general, use a low initial starting dose in elderly patients given their greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Method of Administration For oral treatment, the tablets should be swallowed unchewed with a glass of water. Metoprolol tartrate tablets should always be taken in standardized relation with meals. If the physician asks the patient to take metoprolol tartrate tablets either before breakfast or with breakfast, then the patient should continue taking metoprolol tartrate tablets with the same schedule during the course of therapy. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer once daily with food or after a meal. ( 2 ) • Hypertension: Recommended starting dosage is 100 mg daily, in single or divided doses. ( 2.1 ) • Angina Pectoris: Recommended starting dosage is 100 mg daily, given as two divided doses. ( 2.2 ) • Myocardial Infarction: The starting dosage depends upon tolerance of intravenous metoprolol, see full prescribing information. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets are extended-release tablets intended for once daily administration. For treatment of hypertension and angina, when switching from immediate-release metoprolol to metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets, use the same total daily dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets. Individualize the dosage of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets. Titration may be needed in some patients. Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets are scored and can be divided; however, do not crush or chew the whole or half tablet. • Administer once daily. Titrate at weekly or longer intervals as needed and tolerated.( 2 ) • Hypertension: Starting dose is 25 to 100 mg.() • Angina Pectoris: Starting dose is 100 mg. () • Heart Failure: Starting dose is 12.5 or 25 mg. () • Switching from immediate-release metoprolol to metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets: use the same total daily dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets. ( 2 ) 2.1 Hypertension Adults : The usual initial dosage is 25 to 100 mg daily in a single dose. Pediatric Hypertensive Patients ≥ 6 Years of age :The recommended starting dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets is 1 mg/kg once daily, but the maximum initial dose should not exceed 50 mg once daily. Adjust dosage according to blood pressure response. Doses above 2 mg/kg (or in excess of 200 mg) once daily have not been studied in pediatric patients [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and ] . Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets has not been studied in pediatric patients < 6 years of age [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . 2.2 Angina Pectoris Individualize the dosage of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets. The usual initial dosage is 100 mg daily, given in a single dose. If treatment is to be discontinued, reduce the dosage gradually over a period of 1 - 2 weeks [ see Warnings and Precautions (5) ] . 2.3 Heart Failure Dosage must be individualized and closely monitored during up-titration. Prior to initiation of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets, stabilize the dose of other heart failure drug therapy. The recommended starting dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets is 25 mg once daily for two weeks in patients with NYHA Class II heart failure and 12.5 mg once daily in patients with more severe heart failure. Double the dose every two weeks to the highest dosage level tolerated by the patient or up to 200 mg of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets. Initial difficulty with titration should not preclude later attempts to introduce metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets. If patients experience symptomatic bradycardia, reduce the dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets. If transient worsening of heart failure occurs, consider treating with increased doses of diuretics, lowering the dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets or temporarily discontinuing it. The dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets should not be increased until symptoms of worsening heart failure have been stabilized. 2.4 Administration Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets are scored and can be divided; however, do not crush or chew the whole or half tablet. If treatment is to be discontinued, reduce the dosage gradually over a period of 1 to 2 weeks [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)].
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Metoprolol tartrate tablets are contraindicated in severe bradycardia, second- or third-degree heart block, cardiogenic shock, systolic blood pressure <100, decompensated heart failure, sick sinus syndrome (unless a permanent pacemaker is in place), and in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. Known hypersensitivity to product components. ( 4 ) Severe bradycardia: Greater than first degree heart block, or sick sinus syndrome without a pacemaker. ( 4 ) Cardiogenic shock or decompensated heart failure. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS LOPRESSOR is contraindicated in severe bradycardia, second- or third-degree heart block, cardiogenic shock, systolic blood pressure <100, decompensated heart failure, sick sinus syndrome (unless a permanent pacemaker is in place), and in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Metoprolol tartrate is contraindicated in severe bradycardia, second or third degree heart block, cardiogenic shock, systolic blood pressure <100, decompensated heart failure, sick sinus syndrome (unless a permanent pacemaker is in place), and in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to metoprolol tartrate injection and related derivatives, or to any of the excipients; hypersensitivity to other beta blockers (cross sensitivity between beta blockers can occur). Metoprolol tartrate injection is contraindicated in patients with a heart rate <45 beats/min; second- and third-degree heart block (unless a functioning pacemaker is present); significant first-degree heart block (P-R interval ≥0.24 sec); systolic blood pressure <100 mmHg; or decompensated cardiac failure. • Known hypersensitivity to product components. ( 4 ) • Severe bradycardia, greater than first degree heart block, or sick sinus syndrome without a pacemaker. ( 4 ) • Cardiogenic shock or decompensated heart failure. CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypertension and Angina Metoprolol tartrate tablets are contraindicated in sinus bradycardia, heart block greater than first degree, cardiogenic shock, and overt cardiac failure (see WARNINGS ). Hypersensitivity to metoprolol and related derivatives, or to any of the excipients; hypersensitivity to other beta-blockers (cross-sensitivity between beta-blockers can occur). Sick-sinus syndrome. Severe peripheral arterial circulatory disorders. Myocardial Infarction Metoprolol is contraindicated in patients with a heart rate < 45 beats/min; second- and third-degree heart block; significant first-degree heart block (P-R interval ≥ 0.24 sec); systolic blood pressure < 100 mmHg; or moderate to severe cardiac failure (see WARNINGS ). ( 4 ) • Severe bradycardia: Greater than first degree heart block, or sick sinus syndrome without a pacemaker. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets are contraindicated in severe bradycardia, second or third degree heart block, cardiogenic shock, decompensated heart failure, sick sinus syndrome (unless a permanent pacemaker is in place), and in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. ) • Severe bradycardia: Greater than first degree heart block, or sick sinus syndrome without a pacemaker.( Error! ) • Cardiogenic shock or decompensated heart failure. ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Metoprolol tartrate tablets are contraindicated in severe bradycardia, second-or third-degree heart block, cardiogenic shock, systolic blood pressure <100, decompensated heart failure, sick sinus syndrome (unless a permanent pacemaker is in place), and in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Catecholamine-depleting drugs may have an additive effect when given with beta-blocking agents. ( 7.1 ) Patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reaction. ( 7.2 ) CYP2D6 Inhibitors are likely to increase metoprolol concentration. ( 7.3 ) Concomitant use of glycosides, clonidine, and diltiazem and verapamil with beta-blockers can increase the risk of bradycardia. ( 7.4 ) Beta-blockers including metoprolol, may exacerbate the rebound hypertension that can follow the withdrawal of clonidine. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Catecholamine Depleting Drugs Catecholamine depleting drugs (e.g., reserpine, monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors) may have an additive effect when given with beta-blocking agents. Observe patients treated with metoprolol plus a catecholamine depletor for evidence of hypotension or marked bradycardia, which may produce vertigo, syncope, or postural hypotension. 7.2 Epinephrine While taking beta-blockers, patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reactions to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge and may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat an allergic reaction. 7.3 CYP2D6 Inhibitors Drugs that are strong inhibitors of CYP2D6 such as quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine, and propafenone were shown to double metoprolol concentrations. While there is no information about moderate or weak inhibitors, these too are likely to increase metoprolol concentration. Increases in plasma concentration decrease the cardioselectivity of metoprolol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Monitor patients closely, when the combination cannot be avoided. 7.4 Negative Chronotropes Digitalis glycosides, clonidine, diltiazem and verapamil slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use with beta-blockers can increase the risk of bradycardia. If clonidine and a beta-blocker, such as metoprolol are coadministered, withdraw the beta-blocker several days before the gradual withdrawal of clonidine because beta-blockers may exacerbate the rebound hypertension that can follow the withdrawal of clonidine. If replacing clonidine by beta-blocker therapy, delay the introduction of beta-blockers for several days after clonidine administration has stopped . Observe patients treated with LOPRESSOR plus a catecholamine depletor for evidence of hypotension or marked bradycardia, which may produce vertigo, syncope, or postural hypotension. Increases in plasma concentration decrease the cardioselectivity of metoprolol [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7. 4 Negative Chronotropes Digitalis glycosides, clonidine, diltiazem and verapamil slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Observe patients treated with Metoprolol tartrate plus a catecholamine depletor for evidence of hypotension or marked bradycardia, which may produce vertigo, syncope, or postural hypotension. Increases in plasma concentration decrease the cardioselectivity of metoprolol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Concomitant use with beta blockers can increase the risk of bradycardia. If clonidine and a beta blocker, such as metoprolol are coadministered, withdraw the beta-blocker several days before the gradual withdrawal of clonidine because beta-blockers may exacerbate the rebound hypertension that can follow the withdrawal of clonidine. If replacing clonidine by beta-blocker therapy, delay the introduction of beta-blockers for several days after clonidine administration has stopped. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Catecholamine-depleting drugs may have an additive effect when given with beta-blocking agents. ( 7.1 ) • Patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reaction. ( 7.2 ) • CYP2D6 Inhibitors are likely to increase metoprolol concentration. ( 7.3 ) • Concomitant use of glycosides, clonidine, and diltiazem and verapamil with beta-blockers can increase the risk of bradycardia. ( 7.4 ) • Beta-blockers including metoprolol, may exacerbate the rebound hypertension that can follow the withdrawal of clonidine. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Catecholamine Depleting Drugs and Monoamine Oxidate (MAO) Inhibitors Catecholamine depleting drugs (e.g., reserpine) and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors) may have an additive effect when given with beta-blocking agents. 7.3 CYP2D6 Inhibitors Drugs that are strong inhibitors of CYP2D6, such as quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine, and propafenone, were shown to double metoprolol concentrations. 7.4 Digitalis, Clonidine, and Calcium Channel Blockers and Other Drugs that Decrease Heart Rate Digitalis glycosides, clonidine, diltiazem and verapamil slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant administration of beta-blockers with these and other drugs known to decrease heart rate such as sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor modulators (e.g. fingolimod) may result in additive heart rate lowering effects. If clonidine and metoprolol are co-administered, withdraw the metoprolol several days before the gradual withdrawal of clonidine because beta-blockers may exacerbate the rebound hypertension that can follow the withdrawal of clonidine. 7.5 Drugs that Decrease Blood Pressure Concomitant administration of beta-blockers with other drugs known to decrease blood pressure may result in an enhanced hypotensive effect. Drug Interactions Catecholamine-Depleting Drugs Catecholamine-depleting drugs (e.g., reserpine) may have an additive effect when given with beta-blocking agents or monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors. In addition, possibly significant hypertension may theoretically occur up to 14 days following discontinuation of the concomitant administration with an irreversible MAO inhibitor. Digitalis Glycosides and Beta-Blockers Both digitalis glycosides and beta-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia. Monitor heart rate and PR interval. Calcium Channel Blockers Concomitant administration of a beta-adrenergic antagonist with a calcium channel blocker may produce an additive reduction in myocardial contractility because of negative chronotropic and inotropic effects. CYP2D6 Inhibitors Potent inhibitors of the CYP2D6 enzyme may increase the plasma concentration of metoprolol which would mimic the pharmacokinetics of CYP2D6 poor metabolizer (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacokinetics ). Increase in plasma concentrations of metoprolol would decrease the cardioselectivity of metoprolol. Known clinically significant potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 are antidepressants such as fluvoxamine, fluoxetine, paroxetine, sertraline, bupropion, clomipramine and desipramine; antipsychotics such as chlorpromazine, fluphenazine, haloperidol and thioridazine; antiarrhythmics such as quinidine or propafenone; antiretrovirals such as ritonavir; antihistamines such as diphenhydramine; antimalarials such as hydroxychloroquine or quinidine; antifungals such as terbinafine. Hydralazine Concomitant administration of hydralazine may inhibit presystemic metabolism of metoprolol leading to increased concentrations of metoprolol. Alpha-Adrenergic Agents Antihypertensive effect of alpha-adrenergic blockers such as guanethidine, betanidine, reserpine, alpha-methyldopa or clonidine may be potentiated by beta-blockers including metoprolol. Beta- adrenergic blockers may also potentiate the postural hypotensive effect of the first dose of prazosin, probably by preventing reflex tachycardia. On the contrary, beta-adrenergic blockers may also potentiate the hypertensive response to withdrawal of clonidine in patients receiving concomitant clonidine and beta-adrenergic blocker. If a patient is treated with clonidine and metoprolol concurrently, and clonidine treatment is to be discontinued, stop metoprolol several days before clonidine is withdrawn. Rebound hypertension that can follow withdrawal of clonidine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent beta-blocker treatment. Ergot Alkaloid Concomitant administration with beta-blockers may enhance the vasoconstrictive action of ergot alkaloids. Dipyridamole In general, administration of a beta-blocker should be withheld before dipyridamole testing, with careful monitoring of heart rate following the dipyridamole injection. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility Long-term studies in animals have been conducted to evaluate carcinogenic potential. In a 2-year study in rats at three oral dosage levels of up to 800 mg/kg per day, there was no increase in the development of spontaneously occurring benign or malignant neoplasms of any type. The only histologic changes that appeared to be drug-related were an increased incidence of generally mild focal accumulation of foamy macrophages in pulmonary alveoli and a slight increase in biliary hyperplasia. In a 21-month study in Swiss albino mice at three oral dosage levels of up to 750 mg/kg per day, benign lung tumors (small adenomas) occurred more frequently in female mice receiving the highest dose than in untreated control animals. There was no increase in malignant or total (benign plus malignant) lung tumors, or in the overall incidence of tumors or malignant tumors. This 21-month study was repeated in CD-1 mice, and no statistically or biologically significant differences were observed between treated and control mice of either sex for any type of tumor. All mutagenicity tests performed (a dominant lethal study in mice, chromosome studies in somatic cells, a Salmonella/mammalian-microsome mutagenicity test, and a nucleus anomaly test in somatic interphase nuclei) were negative. Reproduction toxicity studies in mice, rats and rabbits did not indicate teratogenic potential for metoprolol tartrate. Embryotoxicity and/or fetotoxicity in rats and rabbits were noted starting at doses of 50 mg/kg in rats and 25 mg/kg in rabbits, as demonstrated by increases in preimplantation loss, decreases in the number of viable fetuses per dose, and/or decreases in neonatal survival. High doses were associated with some maternal toxicity, and growth delay of the offspring in utero , which was reflected in minimally lower weights at birth. The oral NOAELs for embryo-fetal development in mice, rats, and rabbits were considered to be 25, 200, and 12.5 mg/kg. This corresponds to dose levels that are approximately 0.3 times, 4 times, and 0.5 times, respectively, when based on surface area, the maximum human oral dose (8 mg/kg/day) of metoprolol tartrate. Metoprolol tartrate has been associated with reversible adverse effects on spermatogenesis starting at oral dose levels of 3.5 mg/kg in rats (a dose that is only 0.1 times the human dose, when based on surface area), although other studies have shown no effect of metoprolol tartrate on reproductive performance in male rats. Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Upon confirming the diagnosis of pregnancy, women should immediately inform their doctor. Metoprolol has been shown to increase postimplantation loss and decrease neonatal survival in rats at doses up to 11 times the maximum daily human dose of 450 mg, when based on surface area. Distribution studies in mice confirm exposure of the fetus when metoprolol is administered to the pregnant animal. These limited animal studies do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to teratogenicity (see PRECAUTIONS: Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility ). There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women. The amount of data on the use of metoprolol in pregnant women is limited. The risk to the fetus/mother is unknown. Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response, this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed. Nursing Mothers Metoprolol is excreted in breast milk in a very small quantity. An infant consuming one liter of breast milk daily would receive a dose of less than 1 mg of the drug. Fertility The effects of metoprolol on the fertility of human have not been studied. Metoprolol showed effects on spermatogenesis in male rats at a therapeutic dose level, but had no effect on rates of conception at higher doses in animal fertility studies (see PRECAUTIONS: Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility ). Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established. Geriatric Use Clinical trials of metoprolol in hypertension did not include sufficient numbers of elderly patients to determine whether patients over 65 years of age differ from younger subjects in their response to metoprolol. Other reported clinical experience in elderly hypertensive patients has not identified any difference in response from younger patients. In worldwide clinical trials of metoprolol in myocardial infarction, where approximately 478 patients were over 65 years of age (0 over 75 years of age), no age related differences in safety and effectiveness were found. Other reported clinical experience in myocardial infarction has not identified differences in response between the elderly and younger patients. However, greater sensitivity of some elderly individuals taking metoprolol cannot be categorically ruled out. Therefore, in general, it is recommended that dosing proceed with caution in this population. () • CYP2D6 Inhibitors are likely to increase metoprolol concentration. () • Concomitant use of glycosides, clonidine, and diltiazem and verapamil with beta-blockers can increase the risk of bradycardia. () • Beta-blockers including metoprolol, may exacerbate the rebound hypertension that can follow the withdrawal of clonidine. () 7.1 Catecholamine Depleting Drugs Catecholamine depleting drugs (e.g., reserpine, monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors) may have an additive effect when given with beta-blocking agents. Observe patients treated with metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets plus a catecholamine depletor for evidence of hypotension or marked bradycardia, which may produce vertigo, syncope, or postural hypotension. 7.2 CYP2D6 Inhibitors Drugs that are strong inhibitors of CYP2D6 such as quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine, and propafenone were shown to double metoprolol concentrations. Increases in plasma concentration decrease the cardioselectivity of metoprolol [ ] . 7.3 Digitalis, Clonidine, and Calcium Channel Blockers Digitalis glycosides, clonidine, diltiazem and verapamil slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Increases in plasma concentration decrease the cardioselectivity of metoprolol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].

=== ESOMEPRAZOLE MAGNESIUM ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Acid reducer
Indications: Uses treats frequent heartburn (occurs 2 or more days a week) not intended for immediate relief of heartburn; this drug may take 1 to 4 days for full effect 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are indicated for the: Short-term treatment in the healing of erosive esophagitis (EE) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years to 17 years of age. ( 1.1 ) Maintenance of healing of EE in adults. ( 1.2 ) Short-term treatment of heartburn and other symptoms associated GERD in adults and pediatric patients 12 years to 17 years of age. ( 1.3 ) Risk reduction of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID)-associated gastric ulcer in adults at risk for developing gastric ulcers due to age (60 years and older) and/or documented history of gastric ulcers. ( 1.4 ) Helicobacter pylori eradication in adult patients to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence in combination with amoxicillin and clarithromycin. ( 1.5 ) Long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison syndrome in adults. ( 1.6 ) 1.1 Healing of Erosive Esophagitis (EE) Adults Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are indicated for the short-term treatment (4 to 8 weeks) in the healing and symptomatic resolution of diagnostically confirmed EE in adults. For those patients who have not healed after 4 to 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 4- to 8- week course of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules may be considered. Pediatric Patients 12 Years to 17 Years of Age Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are indicated for the short-term treatment (4 to 8 weeks) for the healing of EE in pediatric patients 12 years to 17 years of age. 1.2 Maintenance of Healing of EE Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are indicated for the maintenance of healing of EE in adults. Controlled studies do not extend beyond 6 months. 1.3 Treatment of Symptomatic GERD Adults Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are indicated for short-term treatment (4 to 8 weeks) of heartburn and other symptoms associated with GERD in adults. Pediatric Patients 12 Years to 17 Years of Age Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are indicated for short-term treatment (4 weeks) of heartburn and other symptoms associated with GERD in pediatric patients 12 years to 17 years of age. 1.4 Risk Reduction of Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAID)-Associated Gastric Ulcer Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are indicated for the reduction in the occurrence of gastric ulcers associated with continuous NSAID therapy in adult patients at risk for developing gastric ulcers. Patients are considered to be at risk due to their age (60 years and older) and/or documented history of gastric ulcers. 1.5 Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Eradication of H. pylori has been shown to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence. Triple Therapy Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules in combination with amoxicillin and clarithromycin is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with H. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease (active or history of within the past 5 years) to eradicate H. pylori . In patients who fail therapy, susceptibility testing should be done. If resistance to clarithromycin is demonstrated or susceptibility testing is not possible, alternative antimicrobial therapy should be instituted [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and the prescribing information for clarithromycin ]. 1.6 Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are indicated for the long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome, in adults. Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are indicated for the: · Short-term treatment in the healing of erosive esophagitis (EE) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years to 17 years of age. ( 1.1 ) · Maintenance of healing of EE in adults. ( 1.2 ) · Short-term treatment of heartburn and other symptoms associated GERD in adults and pediatric patients 12 years to 17 years of age. ( 1.3 ) · Risk reduction of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID)-associated gastric ulcer in adults at risk for developing gastric ulcers due to age (60 years and older) and/or documented history of gastric ulcers. ( 1.4 ) · Helicobacter pylori eradication in adult patients to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence in combination with amoxicillin and clarithromycin. ( 1.5 ) · Long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison syndrome in adults. If resistance to clarithromycin is demonstrated or susceptibility testing is not possible, alternative antimicrobial therapy should be instituted [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.4 ) and the prescribing information for clarithromycin]. Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are indicated for the: • Short-term treatment in the healing of erosive esophagitis (EE) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years to 17 years of age. ( 1.1 ) • Maintenance of healing of EE in adults. ( 1.2 ) • Short-term treatment of heartburn and other symptoms associated GERD in adults and pediatric patients 12 years to 17 years of age. ( 1.3 ) • Risk reduction of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID)-associated gastric ulcer in adults at risk for developing gastric ulcers due to age (60 years and older) and/or documented history of gastric ulcers. ( 1.4 ) • Helicobacter pylori eradication in adult patients to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence in combination with amoxicillin and clarithromycin. ( 1.5 ) • Long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison syndrome in adults. For those patients who have not healed after 4 to 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 4- to 8-week course of Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules may be considered. If resistance to clarithromycin is demonstrated or susceptibility testing is not possible, alternative antimicrobial therapy should be instituted [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and the prescribing information for clarithromycin]. Use treats frequent heartburn (occurs 2 or more days a week) not intended for immediate relief of heartburn; this drug may take 1 to 4 days for full effect Uses • treats frequent heartburn (occurs 2 or more days a week) • not intended for immediate relief of heartburn; this drug may take 1 to 4 days for full effect
Dosage: Directions adults 18 years of age and older this product is to be used once a day (every 24 hours), every day for 14 days may take 1 to 4 days for full effect 14-Day Course of Treatment • swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water before eating in the morning • take every day for 14 days • do not take more than 1 tablet a day • swallow whole. Do not crush or chew capsules. • do not use for more than 14 days unless directed by your doctor Repeated 14-Day Courses (if needed) • you may repeat a 14-day course every 4 months • do not take for more than 14 days or more often than every 4 months unless directed by a doctor children under 18 years of age: ask a doctor before use. Heartburn in children may sometimes be caused by a serious condition . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 1 A maximum dosage of 20 mg once daily is recommended for patients with severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh Class C). 2 Controlled studies do not extend beyond 6 months. 3 Refer to the amoxicillin and clarithromycin prescribing information for dosage adjustments in elderly and renally-impaired patients. 4 A starting dosage of 20 mg twice daily is recommended for patients with severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh Class C). Population Recommended Adult ( 2.1 ) and Pediatric Dosage ( 2.2 ) Healing of EE (12 years and older) Adults 20 mg or 40 mg 1 once daily for 4 to 8 weeks; some patients may require an additional 4 to 8 weeks 12 years to 17 years 20 mg or 40 mg 1 once daily for 4 to 8 weeks Maintenance of Healing of EE Adults 20 mg once daily. Controlled studies do not extend beyond 6 months Treatment of Symptomatic GERD Adults 20 mg once daily for 4 weeks some patients may require an additional 4 weeks 12 years to 17 years 20 mg once daily for 4 weeks Risk Reduction of NSAID-Associated Gastric Ulcer Adults 20 mg or 40 mg 1 once daily for up to 6 months 2 H. pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Adults Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 40 mg 1 once daily for 10 days Amoxicillin 1000 mg twice daily for 10 days 3 Clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily for 10 days 3 Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Adults Starting dosage is 40 mg twice daily 4 (varies with the individual patient) as long as clinically indicated. Preparation and Administration Information Swallow capsules whole; do not crush or chew. For patients who cannot swallow intact capsule, the capsule can be opened, and the contents mixed with applesauce. ( 2.3 ) Opened capsules can be administered through a nasogastric tube. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage in Adults by Indication Table 1 shows the recommended adult dosage of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules by indication. The duration of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules treatment should be based on available safety and efficacy data specific to the defined indication and dosing frequency and individual patient medical needs. Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules should only be initiated and continued if the benefits outweigh the risks of treatment. Table 1: Recommended Dosage of Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules in Adults by Indication 1. A maximum dosage of 20 mg once daily is recommended for patients with severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. 2. Most patients are healed within 4 to 8 weeks. For patients who do not heal after 4 to 8 weeks, an additional 4 to 8 weeks of treatment may be required to achieve healing [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . 3. Refer to the amoxicillin and clarithromycin prescribing information for dosage adjustments in elderly and renally-impaired patients. 4. A starting dosage of 20 mg twice daily is recommended for patients with severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . Adult Indication Recommended Dosage of Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules Treatment Duration Healing of EE 20 mg or 40 mg 1 once daily 4 to 8 weeks 2 Maintenance of Healing of EE 20 mg once daily Controlled studies do not extend beyond 6 months Treatment of Symptomatic GERD 20 mg once daily 4 weeks; if symptoms do not resolve completely, consider an additional 4 weeks Risk Reduction of NSAID-Associated Gastric Ulcer 20 mg or 40 mg 1 once daily Controlled studies do not extend beyond 6 months H. pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence (Triple Therapy) Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 40 mg once daily 1 Amoxicillin 1000 mg twice daily 3 Clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily 3 10 days 10 days 10 days Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Starting dosage is 40 mg twice daily 4 ; individualize the regimen to patient needs. Dosages of up to 240 mg/day have been administered [see Clinical Studies (14.7) ]. As long as clinically indicated 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients by Indication Table 2 shows the recommended dosage of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules in pediatric patients by indication. Table 2: Recommended Dosage of Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules in Pediatric Patients by Indication Indication Patient Age Recommended Dosage Duration Healing of EE 12 years to 17 years Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules: 20 mg or 40 mg once daily 4 to 8 Weeks Treatment of Symptomatic GERD 12 years to 17 years Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules: 20 mg once daily 4 weeks 2.3 Preparation and Administration Instructions Take esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules at least one hour before meals [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Antacids may be used concomitantly with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules. Take a missed dose as soon as possible. If it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and take the next dose at the regular scheduled time. Do not take 2 doses at the same time. Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules Administer esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules orally or via a nasogastric tube, as described below. Oral Administration Swallow esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules whole; do not chew or crush the capsules. For patients who have difficulty swallowing capsules, esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules can be opened, and the contents sprinkled on applesauce. Use with other foods has not been evaluated and is not recommended. Add one tablespoon of applesauce to an empty bowl. The applesauce used should not be hot and should be soft enough to be swallowed without chewing. Open the esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsule and carefully empty the granules inside the capsule onto the applesauce. Mix the granules with the applesauce. Administer the mixture immediately. Do not chew or crush the granules Discard any remaining mixture. Do not store the mixture for future use. Administration via Nasogastric Tube Open the esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsule and empty the granules into a 60 mL catheter-tipped syringe. Mix the granules with 50 mL of water. Replace the plunger and shake the catheter-tipped syringe vigorously for 15 seconds. Hold the catheter-tipped syringe with the tip up and check for any granules remaining in the tip. Attach the catheter-tipped syringe to a nasogastric tube and deliver the contents of the syringe through the nasogastric tube into the stomach. After administering the granules, flush the nasogastric tube with additional water. Use the mixture immediately after preparation. Do not administer the granules if they have dissolved or disintegrated. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Population Recommended Adult ( 2.1 ) and Pediatric Dosage ( 2.2 ) Healing of EE (1 year and older) EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD (1 month to less than 1 year) Adults 20 mg or 40 mg 1 once daily for 4 to 8 weeks; some patients may require an additional 4 to 8 weeks 12 years to 17 years 20 mg or 40 mg 1 once daily for 4 to 8 weeks Maintenance of Healing of EE Adults 20 mg once daily. Controlled studies do not extend beyond 6 months Treatment of Symptomatic GERD Adults 20 mg once daily once daily for 4 weeks some patients may require an additional 4 weeks 12 years to 17 years 20 mg once daily for 4 weeks Risk Reduction of NSAID-Associated Gastric Ulcer Adults 20 mg or 40 mg 1 once daily for up to 6 months 2 H. 1 A maximum dosage of 20 mg once daily is recommended for patients with severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh Class C). Table 1: Recommended Dosage of Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules in Adults by Indication Adult Indication Recommended Dosage of Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules Treatment Duration Healing of EE 20 mg or 40 mg 1 once daily 4 to 8 weeks 2 Maintenance of Healing of EE 20 mg once daily Controlled studies do not extend beyond 6 months Treatment of Symptomatic GERD 20 mg once daily 4 weeks; if symptoms do not resolve completely, consider an additional 4 weeks Risk Reduction of NSAID-Associated Gastric Ulcer 20 mg or 40 mg 1 once daily Controlled studies do not extend beyond 6 months H. pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence (Triple Therapy) Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 40 mg once daily 1 10 days Amoxicillin 1000 mg twice daily 3 10 days Clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily 3 10 days Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Starting dosage is 40 mg twice daily 4 ; individualize the regimen to patient needs. Dosages of up to 240 mg/day have been administered [see Clinical Studies (14.7)]. As long as clinically indicated 1. For patients who do not heal after 4 to 8 weeks, an additional 4 to 8 weeks of treatment may be required to achieve healing [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] . A starting dosage of 20 mg twice daily is recommended for patients with severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)] . 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients by Indication Table 2 shows the recommended dosage of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules in pediatric patients by indication. Table 2: Recommended Dosage of Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules in Pediatric Patients by Indication Indication Patient Age Recommended Dosage Duration Healing of EE 12 years to 17 years Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules: 20 mg or 40 mg once daily 4 to 8 Weeks Treatment of Symptomatic GERD 12 years to 17 years Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules: 20 mg once daily 4 weeks 2.3 Preparation and Administration Instructions Take esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules at least one hour before meals [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 1. Do not chew or crush the granules 5. Discard any remaining mixture. Administration via Nasogastric Tube 1. Open the esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsule and empty the granules into a 60 mL catheter-tipped syringe. 5. 6. 7. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Population Recommended Adult (2.1) and Pediatric Dosage (2.2) Healing of EE Adults 20 mg or 40 mg 1 once daily for 4 to 8 weeks; some patients may require an additional 4 to 8 weeks 12 years to 17 years 20 mg or 40 mg 1 once daily for 4 to 8 weeks Maintenance of Healing of EE Adults 20 mg once daily. pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Adults Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 40 mg 1 once daily for 10 days Amoxicillin 1,000 mg twice daily for 10 days 3 Clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily for 10 days 3 Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Adults Starting dosage is 40 mg twice daily 4 (varies with the individual patient) as long as clinically indicated. ( 2.3 ) Opened capsules can be administered through a nasogastric tube and oral suspension can be administered through a nasogastric or gastric tube. pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence (Triple Therapy) Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 40 mg once daily 1 10 days Amoxicillin 1,000 mg twice daily 3 10 days Clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily 3 10 days Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Starting dosage is 40 mg twice daily 4 ; individualize the regimen to patient needs. Dosages of up to 240 mg/day have been administered [see Clinical Studies (14.7) ] . A maximum dosage of 20 mg once daily is recommended for patients with severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. For patients who do not heal after 4 to 8 weeks, an additional 4 to 8 weeks of treatment may be required to achieve healing [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. A starting dosage of 20 mg twice daily is recommended for patients with severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. Table 2: Recommended Dosage of Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules in Pediatric Patients by Indication Indication Patient Age Recommended Dosage Duration Healing of EE 12 years to 17 years Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules: 20 mg or 40 mg once daily 4 to 8 Weeks Treatment of Symptomatic GERD 12 years to 17 years Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules: 20 mg once daily 4 weeks 2.3 Preparation and Administration Instructions .Take esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules at least one hour before meals [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Do not chew or crush the granules. Directions adults 18 years of age and older this product is to be used once a day (every 24 hours), every day for 14 days may take 1 to 4 days for full effect 14-Day Course of Treatment swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water before eating in the morning take every day for 14 days do not take more than 1 tablet a day swallow whole. Do not crush or chew tablets. do not use for more than 14 days unless directed by your doctor Repeated 14-Day Courses (if needed) you may repeat a 14-day course every 4 months do not take for more than 14 days or more often than every 4 months unless directed by a doctor children under 18 years of age: ask a doctor before use. Heartburn in children may sometimes be caused by a serious condition. Other information read the directions and warnings before use keep the carton. It contains important information. store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) Directions adults 18 years of age and older this product is to be used once a day (every 24 hours), every day for 14 days may take 1 to 4 days for full effect 14-Day Course of Treatment swallow 1 capsule with a glass of water before eating in the morning take every day for 14 days do not take more than 1 capsule a day swallow whole. Directions • adults 18 years of age and older • this product is to be used once a day (every 24 hours), every day for 14 days • may take 1 to 4 days for full effect 14-Day Course of Treatment • swallow 1 capsule with a glass of water before eating in the morning • take every day for 14 days • do not take more than 1 capsule a day • swallow whole. • do not use for more than 14 days unless directed by your doctor Repeated 14-Day Courses (if needed) • you may repeat a 14-day course every 4 months • do not take for more than 14 days or more often than every 4 months unless directed by a doctor • children under 18 years of age: ask a doctor before use.
Warnings: Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to esomeprazole. Esomeprazole may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Warnings Allergy alert: ■ Do not use if you are allergic to esomeprazole. ■ Esomeprazole may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: ■ skin reddening ■ blisters ■ rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Warnings Allergy alert Do not use if you are allergic to esomeprazole Esomeprazole may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms include: -skin reddening -blisters -rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical attention right away. Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you are allergic to esomeprazole. Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you are allergic to esomeprazole Esomeprazole may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms include: skin reddening blisters rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Do not use if you have: trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating or dizziness chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness frequent chest pain These may be signs of a serious condition. See your doctor. Ask a doctor before use if you have: had heartburn over 3 months. This may be a sign of a more serious condition. frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn unexplained weight loss nausea or vomiting stomach pain Warnings Allergy alert: • Do not use if you are allergic to esomeprazole. • Esomeprazole may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: • skin reddening • blisters • rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Do not use if you have: • trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools • heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain These may be signs of a serious condition. Ask a doctor before use if you have • had heartburn over 3 months. • frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • taking a prescription drug. Acid reducers may interact with certain prescription drugs. Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days • you need to take more than 1 course of treatment every 4 months • you get diarrhea • you develop a rash or joint pain If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222).
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to substituted benzimidazoles or to any component of the formulation. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. For information about contraindications of amoxicillin and clarithromycin, indicated in combination with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules for H. pylori eradication to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence, refer to the Contraindications section of the respective prescribing information. Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Known hypersensitivity to substituted benzimidazoles or any component of the formulation. ( 4 ) Patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products. ( 4 , 7 ) Refer to the Contraindications section of the prescribing information for amoxicillin and clarithromycin, when administered in combination with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules. ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ) ]. Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including esomeprazole magnesium, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] . · Known hypersensitivity to substituted benzimidazoles or any component of the formulation. ( 4 ) · Patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products. ( 4 , 7 ) · Refer to the Contraindications section of the prescribing information for amoxicillin and clarithromycin, when administered in combination with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to substituted benzimidazoles or to any component of the formulation. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . • For information about contraindications of amoxicillin and clarithromycin, indicated in combination with Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules for H. • Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine­containing products [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] .
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Tables 3 and 4 include drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with esomeprazole and instructions for preventing or managing them. Consult the labeling of concomitantly used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with PPIs. Table 3: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Co-Administered with Esomeprazole and Interaction with Diagnostics Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact: The effect of PPIs on antiretroviral drugs is variable. The clinical importance and the mechanisms behind these interactions are not always known. Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine atazanavir, and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with esomeprazole may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with esomeprazole may increase toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. There are other antiretroviral drugs which do not result in clinically relevant interactions with esomeprazole. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . Atazanavir: See prescribing information for atazanavir for dosing information. Nelfinavir: Avoid concomitant use with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules. See prescribing information for nelfinavir. Saquinavir: See the prescribing information for saquinavir for monitoring of potential saquinavir-related toxicities. Other antiretrovirals: See prescribing information for specific antiretroviral drugs Warfarin Clinical Impact: Increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving PPIs, including esomeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Intervention: Monitor INR and prothrombin time and adjust the dose of warfarin, if needed, to maintain the target INR range. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of esomeprazole with methotrexate (primarily at high dose) may elevate and prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. Intervention: A temporary withdrawal of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules may be considered in some patients receiving high-dose methotrexate. 2C19 Substrates (e.g., clopidogrel, citalopram, cilostazol) Clopidogrel Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of esomeprazole 40 mg resulted in reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in platelet inhibition [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. There are no adequate combination studies of a lower dose of esomeprazole or a higher dose of clopidogrel in comparison with the approved dose of clopidogrel . Intervention: Avoid concomitant use with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules Consider use of alternative anti-platelet therapy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Citalopram Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of citalopram leading to an increased risk of QT prolongation [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Limit the dose of citalopram to a maximum of 20 mg per day. See prescribing information for citalopram. Cilostazol Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of cilostazol and one of its active metabolites (3,4-dihydro-cilostazol) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Consider reducing the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily. See prescribing information for cilostazol. Digoxin Clinical Impact: Potential for increased exposure of digoxin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Monitor digoxin concentrations and adjust the dose, if needed, to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations. See prescribing information for digoxin. Combination Therapy with Clarithromycin and Amoxicillin Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions, including potentially fatal arrhythmias, and are contraindicated. Amoxicillin also has drug interactions. Intervention: See Contraindications, Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin. See Drug Interactions in prescribing information for amoxicillin. Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption (e.g., iron salts, erlotinib, dasatinib, nilotinib, mycophenolate mofetil, ketoconazole/itraconazole) Clinical Impact: Esomeprazole can reduce the absorption of other drugs due to its effect on reducing intragastric acidity Intervention: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Co-administration of omeprazole, of which esomeprazole is an enantiomer, in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH. The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules and MMF. Use esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . See the prescribing information for other drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption. Tacrolimus Clinical Impact: Potentially increased exposure of tacrolimus, especially in transplant patients who are intermediate or poor metabolizers of CYP2C19 . Intervention: Monitor tacrolimus whole blood concentrations and consider reducing the dose, if needed, to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations. See prescribing information for tacrolimus. Interactions with Investigations of Neuroendocrine Tumors Clinical Impact: Serum chromogranin A (CgA) levels increase secondary to PPI-induced decreases in gastric acidity. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Intervention: Discontinue esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. If serial tests are performed (e.g. for monitoring), the same commercial laboratory should be used for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary. Interaction with Secretin Stimulation Test Clinical Impact: Hyper-response in gastrin secretion in response to secretin stimulation test, falsely suggesting gastrinoma. Intervention: Discontinue esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 4 weeks prior to testing [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact: There have been reports of false positive urine screening test for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving PPIs. Intervention: An alternative confirmatory method should be considered to verify positive results. Table 4: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Esomeprazole When Co-Administered with Other Drugs CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: Decreased exposure of esomeprazole when used concomitantly with strong inducers [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: St. John’s Wort, rifampin: Avoid concomitant use with [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. Ritonavir-containing products: see prescribing information for specific drugs Voriconazole Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of esomeprazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Dose adjustment of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules is not normally required. However, in patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, who may require higher doses, dosage adjustment may be considered. See prescribing information for voriconazole. See full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions. ( 7 ) Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine, atazanavir, and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with esomeprazole may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with esomeprazole may increase toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products : Concomitant use with esomeprazole magnesium is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)] . Atazanavir : See prescribing information for atazanavir for dosing information. Nelfinavir : Avoid concomitant use with esomeprazole magnesium. Saquinavir : See the prescribing information for saquinavir for monitoring of potential saquinavir-related toxicities. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . Intervention: A temporary withdrawal of esomeprazole magnesium may be considered in some patients receiving high-dose methotrexate. 2C19 Substrates (e.g., clopidogrel, citalopram, cilostazol) Clopidogrel Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of esomeprazole 40 mg resulted in reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in platelet inhibition [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . There are no adequate combination studies of a lower dose of esomeprazole or a higher dose of clopidogrel in comparison with the approved dose of clopidogrel. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules Consider use of alternative anti-platelet therapy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving esomeprazole magnesium and MMF. Use esomeprazole magnesium with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Tacrolimus Clinical Impact: Potentially increased exposure of tacrolimus, especially in transplant patients who are intermediate or poor metabolizers of CYP2C19. Intervention: Discontinue esomeprazole magnesium at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. Intervention: Discontinue esomeprazole magnesium 4 weeks prior to testing [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact: There have been reports of false positive urine screening test for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving PPIs. John’s Wort, rifampin : Avoid concomitant use with [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. Ritonavir-containing products : see prescribing information for specific drugs Voriconazole Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of esomeprazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Dose adjustment of esomeprazole magnesium is not normally required. Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine atazanavir, and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with esomeprazole may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with esomeprazole may increase toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . Other antiretrovirals: See prescribing information for specific antiretroviral drugs. Warfarin Clinical Impact: Increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving PPIs, including esomeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption (e.g., iron salts, erlotinib, dasatinib, nilotinib, mycophenolate mofetil, ketoconazole/itraconazole) Clinical Impact: Esomeprazole can reduce the absorption of other drugs due to its effect on reducing intragastric acidity. Intervention: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Co-administration of omeprazole, of which esomeprazole is an enantiomer, in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH. Use esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Ritonavir-containing products: see prescribing information for specific drugs. Voriconazole Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of esomeprazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ].

=== CEPHALEXIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cephalexin capsules are a cephalosporin antibacterial drug indicated for the treatment of the following infections caused by susceptible isolates of designated bacteria: Respiratory tract infection ( 1.1 ) Otitis media ( 1.2 ) Skin and skin structure infections ( 1.3 ) Bone infections ( 1.4 ) Genitourinary tract infections ( 1.5 ) To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cephalexin capsules and other antibacterial drugs, cephalexin capsules should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.6 ) 1.1 Respiratory Tract Infections Cephalexin capsules are indicated for the treatment of respiratory tract infections caused by susceptible isolates of Streptococcus pneumoniae and Streptococcus pyogenes. 1.2 Otitis Media Cephalexin capsules are indicated for the treatment of otitis media caused by susceptible isolates of Streptococcus pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae , Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pyogenes , and Moraxella catarrhalis. 1.3 Skin and Skin Structure Infections Cephalexin capsules are indicated for the treatment of skin and skin structure infections caused by susceptible isolates of the following Gram-positive bacteria: Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes . 1.4 Bone Infections Cephalexin capsules are indicated for the treatment of bone infections caused by susceptible isolates of Staphylococcus aureus and Proteus mirabilis. 1.5 Genitourinary Tract Infections Cephalexin capsules are indicated for the treatment of genitourinary tract infections, including acute prostatitis, caused by susceptible isolates of Escherichia coli , Proteus mirabilis , and Klebsiella pneumoniae . 1.6 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cephalexin capsules and other antibacterial drugs, cephalexin capsules should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information is available, this information should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Cephalexin is a cephalosporin antibacterial drug indicated for the treatment of the following infections caused by susceptible isolates of designated bacteria: Respiratory tract infection ( 1.1 ) Otitis media ( 1.2 ) Skin and skin structure infections ( 1.3 ) Bone infections (1.4) Genitourinary tract infections ( 1.5 ) To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cephalexin and other antibacterial drugs, Cephalexin should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. (1.6) 1.1 Respiratory Tract Infections Cephalexin is indicated for the treatment of respiratory tract infections caused by susceptible isolates of Streptococcus pneumoniae and Streptococcus pyogenes. 1.2 Otitis Media Cephalexin is indicated for the treatment of otitis media caused by susceptible isolates of Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pyogenes, and Moraxella catarrhalis. 1.3 Skin and Skin Structure Infections Cephalexin is indicated for the treatment of skin and skin structure infections caused by susceptible isolates of the following Gram-positive bacteria: Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes. 1.4 Bone Infections Cephalexin is indicated for the treatment of bone infections caused by susceptible isolates of Staphylococcus aureus and Proteus mirabilis. 1.5 Genitourinary Tract Infections Cephalexin is indicated for the treatment of genitourinary tract infections, including acute prostatitis, caused by susceptible isolates of Escherichia coli, Proteus mirabilis, and Klebsiella pneumoniae. 1.6 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cephalexin and other antibacterial drugs, Cephalexin should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cephalexin is a cephalosporin antibacterial drug indicated for the treatment of the following infections caused by susceptible isolates of designated bacteria: Respiratory tract infection ( 1.1 ) Otitis media ( 1.2 ) Skin and skin structure infections ( 1.3 ) Bone infections ( 1.4 ) Genitourinary tract infections ( 1.5 ) To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Cephalexin and other antibacterial drugs, Cephalexin should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.6 ) 1.1 Respiratory Tract Infections Cephalexin is indicated for the treatment of respiratory tract infections caused by susceptible isolates of Streptococcus pneumoniae and Streptococcus pyogenes. 1.2 Otitis Media Cephalexin is indicated for the treatment of otitis media caused by susceptible isolates of Streptococcus pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae , Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pyogenes , and Moraxella catarrhalis. 1.3 Skin and Skin Structure Infections Cephalexin is indicated for the treatment of skin and skin structure infections caused by susceptible isolates of the following Gram-positive bacteria: Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes . 1.5 Genitourinary Tract Infections Cephalexin is indicated for the treatment of genitourinary tract infections, including acute prostatitis, caused by susceptible isolates of Escherichia coli , Proteus mirabilis , and Klebsiella pneumoniae . 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Cephalexin is a cephalosporin antibacterial drug indicated for the treatment of the following infections caused by susceptible isolates of designated bacteria: • Respiratory tract infection ( 1.1 ) • Otitis media ( 1.2 ) • Skin and skin structure infections ( 1.3 ) • Bone infections ( 1.4 ) • Genitourinary tract infections ( 1.5 ) To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cephalexin and other antibacterial drugs, cephalexin should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.6 ) 1.1 Respiratory Tract Infections Cephalexin is indicated for the treatment of respiratory tract infections caused by susceptible isolates of Streptococcus pneumoniae and Streptococcus pyogenes . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cephalexin USP is a cephalosporin antibacterial drug indicated for the treatment of the following infections caused by susceptible isolates of designated bacteria: Respiratory tract infection ( 1.1 ) Otitis media ( 1.2 ) Skin and skin structure infections ( 1.3 ) Bone infections ( 1.4 ) Genitourinary tract infections ( 1.5 ) To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cephalexin and other antibacterial drugs, cephalexin for oral suspension should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.6 ) 1.1 Respiratory Tract Infections Cephalexin for oral suspension is indicated for the treatment of respiratory tract infections caused by susceptible isolates of Streptococcus pneumoniae and Streptococcus pyogenes . 1.2 Otitis Media Cephalexin for oral suspension is indicated for the treatment of otitis media caused by susceptible isolates of Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pyogenes, and Moraxella catarrhalis. 1.3 Skin and Skin Structure Infections Cephalexin for oral suspension is indicated for the treatment of skin and skin structure infections caused by susceptible isolates of the following Gram-positive bacteria: Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes. 1.4 Bone Infections Cephalexin for oral suspension is indicated for the treatment of bone infections caused by susceptible isolates of Staphylococcus aureus and Proteus mirabilis. 1.5 Genitourinary Tract Infections Cephalexin for oral suspension is indicated for the treatment of genitourinary tract infections, including acute prostatitis, caused by susceptible isolates of Escherichia coli, Proteus mirabilis, and Klebsiella pneumoniae. 1.6 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cephalexin for oral suspension and other antibacterial drugs, cephalexin for oral suspension should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and patients at least 15 years of age The usual dose is 250 mg every 6 hours, but a dose of 500 mg every 12 hours may be administered ( 2.1 ) Pediatric patients (over 1 year of age) Otitis media: 75 to 100 mg/kg in equally divided doses every 6 hours ( 2.2 ) All other indications: 25 to 50 mg/kg given in equally divided doses ( 2.2 ) In severe infections: 50 to 100 mg/kg may be administered in equally divided doses ( 2.2 ) Duration of therapy ranges from 7 to 14 days depending on the infection type and severity. ( 2 ) Dosage adjustment is required in patients with severe and end stage renal disease (ESRD) defined as creatinine clearance below 30 mL/min. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Adults and Pediatric Patients at Least 15 Years of Age The usual dose of oral cephalexin capsules is 250 mg every 6 hours, but a dose of 500 mg every 12 hours may be administered. Treatment is administered for 7 to 14 days. For more severe infections larger doses of oral cephalexin capsules may be needed, up to 4 grams daily in two to four equally divided doses. 2.2 Pediatric Patients (over 1 year of age) The recommended total daily dose of oral cephalexin capsules for pediatric patients is 25 to 50 mg/kg given in equally divided doses for 7 to 14 days. In the treatment of β-hemolytic streptococcal infections, duration of at least 10 days is recommended. In severe infections, a total daily dose of 50 to 100 mg/kg may be administered in equally divided doses. For the treatment of otitis media, the recommended daily dose is 75 to 100 mg/kg given in equally divided doses. 2.3 Dosage Adjustments in Adult and Pediatric Patients at Least 15 Years of Age with Renal Impairment Administer the following dosing regimens for cephalexin capsules to patients with renal impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . Table 1. Recommended Dose Regimen for Patients with Renal Impairment *There is insufficient information to make dose adjustment recommendations in patients on hemodialysis. Renal function Dose regimen recommendation Creatinine clearance > 60 mL/min No dose adjustment Creatinine clearance 30 to 59 mL/min No dose adjustment; maximum daily dose should not exceed 1g Creatinine clearance 15 to 29 mL/min 250 mg, every 8 hours or every 12 hours Creatinine clearance 5 to 14 mL/min not yet on dialysis* 250 mg, every 24 hours Creatinine clearance 1 to 4 mL/min not yet on dialysis* 250 mg, every 48 hours or every 60 hours 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Adults and patients at least 15 years of age The usual dose is 250 mg every 6 hours, but a dose of 500 mg every 12 hours may be administered ( 2.1 ) Pediatric patients (over 1 year of age) Otitis media: 75 to 100 mg/kg in equally divided doses every 6 hours ( 2.2 ) All other indications: 25 to 50 mg/kg given in equally divided doses ( 2.2 ) In severe infections: 50 to 100 mg/kg may be administered in equally divided doses ( 2.2 ) Duration of therapy ranges from 7 to14 days depending on the infection type and severity. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Adults and Pediatric Patients at Least 15 Years of Age The usual dose of oral Cephalexin capsule, USP is 250 mg every 6 hours, but a dose of 500 mg every 12 hours may be administered. For more severe infections larger doses of oral Cephalexin capsules, USP may be needed, up to 4 grams daily in two to four equally divided doses. 2.2 Pediatric Patients (over 1 year of age) The recommended total daily dose of oral Cephalexin capsules, USP for pediatric patients is 25 to 50 mg/kg given in equally divided doses for 7 to 14 days. 2.3 Dosage Adjustments in Adult and Pediatric Patients at Least 15 Years of Age with Renal Impairment Administer the following dosing regimens for Cephalexin capsules, USP to patients with renal impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . Recommended Dose Regimen for Patients with Renal Impairment Renal function Dose regimen recommendation Creatinine clearance >60mL/min. No dose adjustment Creatinine clearance 30 to 59 mL/min No dose adjustment; maximum daily dose should not exceed 1 g Creatinine clearance 15 to 29 mL/min 250 mg, every 8 hours or every 12 hours Creatinine clearance 5 to 14 mL/min not yet on dialysis* 250 mg, every 24 hours Creatinine clearance 1 to 4 mL/min not yet on dialysis* 250 mg, every 48 hours or every 60 hours *There is insufficient information to make dose adjustment recommendations in patients on hemodialysis. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Adults and Pediatric Patients at Least 15 Years of Age The usual dose of oral Cephalexin is 250 mg every 6 hours, but a dose of 500 mg every 12 hours may be administered. For more severe infections larger doses of oral Cephalexin may be needed, up to 4 grams daily in two to four equally divided doses. 2.2 Pediatric Patients (over 1 year of age) The recommended total daily dose of oral Cephalexin for pediatric patients is 25 to 50 mg/kg given in equally divided doses for 7 to 14 days. 2.3 Dosage Adjustments in Adult and Pediatric Patients at Least 15 Years of Age with Renal Impairment Administer the following dosing regimens for Cephalexin to patients with impaired renal function [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) ]. Recommended Dose Regimen for Patients with Renal Impairment Renal function Dose regimen recommendation Creatinine clearance ≥ 60 mL/min No dose adjustment Creatinine clearance 30 to 59 mL/min No dose adjustment; maximum daily dose should not exceed 1 g Creatinine clearance 15 to 29 mL/min 250 mg, every 8 hours or every 12 hours Creatinine clearance 5 to 14 mL/min not yet on dialysis There is insufficient information to make dose adjustment recommendations in patients on hemodialysis. 250 mg, every 24 hours Creatinine clearance 1 to 4 mL/min not yet on dialysis 250 mg, every 48 hours or every 60 hours 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Adults and patients at least 15 years of age The usual dose is 250 mg every 6 hours, but a dose of 500 mg every 12 hours may be administered ( 2.1 ). Pediatric patients (over 1 year of age) Otitis media: 75 to 100 mg/kg in equally divided doses every 6 hours ( 2.2 ) All other indications: 25 to 50 mg/kg given in equally divided doses ( 2.2 ) In severe infections: 50 to 100 mg/kg may be administered in equally divided doses ( 2.2 ) • Duration of therapy ranges from 7 to 14 days depending on the infection type and severity. (2) • Dosage adjustment is required in patients with severe and end stage renal disease (ESRD) defined as creatinine clearance below 30 mL/min. (2.3) 2.1 Adults and Pediatric Patients at Least 15 Years of Age The usual dose of oral cephalexin is 250 mg every 6 hours, but a dose of 500 mg every 12 hours may be administered. Weight 10 kg (22 lb) 20 kg (44 lb) 40 kg (88 lb) Cephalexin Suspension 125mg/5mL ½ to 1 tsp q.i.d. 1 to 2 tsp q.i.d. 2 to 4 tsp q.i.d. 250mg/5mL ¼ to ½ tsp q.i.d. ½ to 1 tsp q.i.d. Weight 10 kg (22 lb) 20 kg (44 lb) 40 kg (88 lb) 125mg/5mL 1 to 2 tsp b.i.d. 2 to 4 tsp b.i.d. 4 to 8 tsp b.i.d. 250mg/5mL ½ to 1 tsp b.i.d 1 to 2 tsp b.i.d. Directions for Mixing 125 mg per 5 mL (100 mL when mixed): Prepare suspension time at dispensing. Add to the bottle a total of 67 mL of water. For ease in preparation, tap bottle to loosen powder, add the water in 2 portions, shaking well after each addition. The resulting suspension will contain cephalexin monohydrate equivalent to 125 mg cephalexin in each 5 mL (teaspoonful). 125 mg per 5 mL (200 mL when mixed): Prepare suspension time at dispensing. Add to the bottle a total of 134 mL of water. 250 mg per 5 mL (100 mL when mixed): Prepare suspension time at dispensing. The resulting suspension will contain cephalexin monohydrate equivalent to 250 mg cephalexin in each 5 mL (teaspoonful). 250 mg per 5 mL (200 mL when mixed): Prepare suspension time at dispensing. *After mixing, store in refrigerator. May be kept for 14 days without significant loss of potency. 2.3 Dosage Adjustments in Adult and Pediatric Patients at Least 15 Years of Age with Renal Impairment Administer the following dosing regimens for cephalexin to patients with impaired renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) ]. Recommended Dose Regimen for Patients with Renal Impairment Renal function Dose regimen recommendation Creatinine clearance ≥60 mL/min No dose adjustment Creatinine clearance 30 to 59 mL/min No dose adjustment; maximum daily dose should not exceed 1 g Creatinine clearance 15 to 29 mL/min 250 mg, every 8 hours or every 12 hours Creatinine clearance 5 to 14 mL/min not yet on dialysis* 250 mg, every 24 hours Creatinine clearance 1 to 4 mL/min not yet on dialysis* 250 mg, every 48 hours or every 60 hours *There is insufficient information to make dose adjustment recommendations in patients on hemodialysis. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and patients at least 15 years of age The usual dose is 250 mg every 6 hours, but a dose of 500 mg every 12 hours may be administered ( 2.1 ). Pediatric patients (over 1 year of age) • Otitis media: 75 to 100 mg/kg in equally divided doses every 6 hours ( 2.2 ) • All other indications: 25 to 50 mg/kg given in equally divided doses ( 2.2 ) • In severe infections: 50 to 100 mg/kg may be administered in equally divided doses ( 2.2 ) Duration of therapy ranges from 7 to 14 days depending on the infection type and severity. Cephalexin for oral suspension Weight 10 kg (22 lb) 125mg/5mL ½ to 1 tsp q.i.d. 20 kg (44 lb) 40 kg (88 lb) 1 to 2 tsp q.i.d. Or ½ to 1 tsp q.i.d. Weight 10 kg (22 lb) 20 kg (44 lb) 125mg/5mL 1 to 2 tsp b.i.d. 250mg/5mL ½ to 1 tsp b.i.d. 1 to 2 tsp b.i.d. 40 kg (88 lb) 4 to 8 tsp b.i.d. Add to the bottle a total of 69 mL of water. Add to the bottle a total of 138 mL of water. * After mixing, store in refrigerator. 2.3 Dosage Adjustments in Adult and Pediatric Patients at Least 15 Years of Age with Renal Impairment Administer the following dosing regimens for cephalexin for oral suspension to patients with impaired renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. Recommended Dose Regimen for Patients with Renal Impairment Renal function Dose regimen recommendation Creatinine clearance ≥ 60 mL/min No dose adjustment Creatinine clearance 30 to 59 mL/min No dose adjustment; maximum daily dose should not exceed 1 g Creatinine clearance 15 to 29 mL/min 250 mg, every 8 hours or every 12 hours Creatinine clearance 5 to 14 mL/min not yet on dialysis * 250 mg, every 24 hours Creatinine clearance 1 to 4 mL/min not yet on dialysis * 250 mg, every 48 hours or every 60 hours * There is insufficient information to make dose adjustment recommendations in patients on hemodialysis.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Cephalexin capsules are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to cephalexin or other members of the cephalosporin class of antibacterial drugs. Patients with known hypersensitivity to cephalexin or other members of the cephalosporin class of antibacterial drugs. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Cephalexin is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to cephalexin or other members of the cephalosporin class of antibacterial drugs. (4)
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Metformin: increased metformin concentrations. Monitor for hypoglycemia. ( 7.1 ) Probenecid-The renal excretion of cephalexin is inhibited by probenecid. Co-administration of probenecid with cephalexin is not recommended. ( 7.2 ) Administration of cephalexin may result in a false-positive reaction glucose in the urine. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Metformin Administration of cephalexin with metformin results in increased plasma metformin concentrations and decreased renal clearance of metformin. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin is recommended in patients concomitantly taking cephalexin and metformin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 Probenecid The renal excretion of cephalexin is inhibited by probenecid. 7.3 Interaction with Laboratory or Diagnostic Testing A false-positive reaction may occur when testing for the presence of glucose in the urine using Benedict’s solution or Fehling’s solution. ( 7.1 ) Probenecid- The renal excretion of cephalexin is inhibited by probenecid. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin is recommended in patients concomitantly taking cephalexin and metformin [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] 7.2 Probenecid The renal excretion of cephalexin is inhibited by probenecid. ( 7.1 ) Probenecid - The renal excretion of Cephalexin is inhibited by probenecid. ( 7.2 ) Administration of Cephalexin may result in a false-positive reaction for glucose in the urine. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin is recommended in patients concomitantly taking Cephalexin and metformin [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Metformin: increased metformin concentrations. (7.1) • Probenecid - The renal excretion of cephalexin is inhibited by probenecid. (7.2) • Administration of cephalexin may result in a false-positive reaction for glucose in the urine. (7.3) 7.1 Metformin Administration of cephalexin with metformin results in increased plasma metformin concentrations and decreased renal clearance of metformin. Careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin is recommended in patients concomitantly taking cephalexin and metformin [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 7.3 Interaction with Laboratory or Diagnostic Testing A false-positive reaction may occur when testing for the presence of glucose in the urine using Benedict's solution or Fehling's solution. ( 7.1 ) Probenecid-The renal excretion of cephalexin for oral suspension is inhibited by probenecid. Co-administration of probenecid with cephalexin for oral suspension is not recommended. ( 7.2 ) Administration of cephalexin for oral suspension may result in a false-positive reaction for glucose in the urine.

=== HYDROCODONE BITARTRATE AND ACETAMINOPHEN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets, USP are indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration [see WARNINGS ] , reserve hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products): Have not been tolerated or are not expected to be tolerated, Have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablet is indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, with opioids, which can occur at dosage or duration [see WARNINGS ], reserve Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options [e.g., non-opioid analgesics] have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated, have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets are indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration [see WARNINGS ] , reserve Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics): Have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated, Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets are indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosage or duration and persist over the course of therapy [see WARNINGS ], reserve opioid analgesics, including Hydrocodone Bitartrate for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. Limitations of Use • Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosage or duration, and persist over the course of therapy [see WARNINGS ], reserve opioid analgesics, including Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets, for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution is indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, with opioids, even at recommended doses [see WARNINGS ], reserve Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics): have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, with opioids, even at recommended doses [see WARNINGS ], reserve hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets, USP for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics): have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated, have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophentablets are indicated for the management of relief of moderate to moderatelysevere pain, pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for whichalternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, andmisuse, with opioids, even at recommended doses [see WARNINGS ], reserve hydrocodonebitartrate and acetaminophen tablets for use in patients for whom alternativetreatment options [e.g., non-opioid analgesics] • Have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated, • Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see WARNINGS ] . Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. Clinical guidelines on opioid prescribing for some acute pain conditions are available. There is variability in the opioid analgesic dose and duration needed to adequately manage pain due both to the cause of pain and to individual patient factors. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see WARNINGS ]. Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see WARNINGS ] . Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with hydrocodone and acetaminophen tablets [see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. Inform patients and caregivers about the various ways to obtain naloxone as permitted by individual state naloxone dispensing and prescribing regulations (e.g., by prescription, directly from a pharmacist, or as part of a community-based program). Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient's risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [see WARNINGS, Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse , Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression , Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ]. Consider prescribing naloxone when the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose. Initial Dosage Use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets as the First Opioid Analgesic 5 mg/325 mg Initiate treatment with hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets in a dosing range of 1 to 2 tablets every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain, and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient's response to their initial dose of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets. The total daily dosage should not exceed 8 tablets. 7.5 mg/325 mg 10 mg/325 mg Initiate treatment with hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets with 1 tablet every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain, and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. The total daily dosage should not exceed 6 tablets. Conversion from Other Opioids to Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets There is inter-patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and opioid formulations. Therefore, a conservative approach is advised when determining the total daily dosage of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets. It is safer to underestimate a patient's 24-hour hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets dosage than to overestimate the 24-hour hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to overdose. Conversion from Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets to Extended-Release Hydrocodone The relative bioavailability of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets compared to extended-release hydrocodone is unknown, so conversion to extended-release hydrocodone may lead to increased risk of excessive sedation and respiratory depression. Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as reassessing for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see WARNINGS ]. Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration. If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets dosage. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see WARNINGS ] . Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions. Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets Do not abruptly discontinue hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. Rapid discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. Patients may also attempt to treat their pain or withdrawal symptoms with illicit opioids, such as heroin, and other substances. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. It is important to ensure ongoing care of the patient and to agree on an appropriate tapering schedule and follow-up plan so that patient and provider goals and expectations are clear and realistic. When opioid analgesics are being discontinued due to a suspected substance use disorder, evaluate and treat the patient, or refer for evaluation and treatment of the substance use disorder. Treatment should include evidence-based approaches, such as medication assisted treatment of opioid use disorder. Complex patients with co-morbid pain and substance use disorders may benefit from referral to a specialist. There are no standard opioid tapering schedules that are suitable for all patients. Good clinical practice dictates a patient-specific plan to taper the dose of the opioid gradually. For patients on hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. Patients who have been taking opioids for briefer periods of time may tolerate a more rapid taper. It may be necessary to provide the patient with lower dosage strengths to accomplish a successful taper. Reassess the patient frequently to manage pain and withdrawal symptoms, should they emerge. Common withdrawal symptoms include restlessness, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, yawning, perspiration, chills, myalgia, and mydriasis. Other signs and symptoms also may develop, including irritability, anxiety, backache, joint pain, weakness, abdominal cramps, insomnia, nausea, anorexia, vomiting, diarrhea, or increased blood pressure, respiratory rate, or heart rate. If withdrawal symptoms arise, it may be necessary to pause the taper for a period of time or raise the dose of the opioid analgesic to the previous dose, and then proceed with a slower taper. In addition, evaluate patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for an extended period of time and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see WARNINGS, Withdrawal ; DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ] . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opiods and how to mitigate the associated risks. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see WARNINGS ]. Because the risk of overdose increases as opiod doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets for patients in who, lower doses are insufficiently effective and in who, the expected benefits of using a higher dose opiod clearly outweigh the substantial risks. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see WARNINGS ]. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see WARNINGS ]. Initial Dosage Use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets as the First Opioid Analgesic 5mg/325mg Initiate treatment with Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets in a dosing range of 1 to 2 tablets every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain, at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets. 7.5mg/325mg 10mg/325mg Initiate treatment with Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets 1 every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain, at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. It is safer to underestimate a patient’s 24-hour Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets dosage than to overestimate the 24-hour Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to overdose. Conversion from Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets to Extended-Release Hydrocodone The relative bioavailability of hydrocodone from Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets compared to extended-release hydrocodone products is unknown, so conversion to extended-release products must be accompanied by close observation for signs of excessive sedation and respiratory depression. Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets [see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression; PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients and/or Caregivers ]. Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [see WARNINGS, Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression, Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ]. Continually reevaluate patients receiving Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see WARNINGS ]. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed,(including anincrease in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see WARNINGS ]. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the dose of opioid (including Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see WARNINGS/Withdrawal, Drug Abuse AND Dependence ]. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see WARNINGS ]. Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets [see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. Initial Dosage Use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets as the First Opioid Analgesic 5 mg/300 mg Initiate treatment with Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets in a dosing range of 1 to 2 tablets every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain, at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. 7.5 mg/300 mg 10 mg/300 mg Initiate treatment with Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets with 1 tablet every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain, at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. It is safer to underestimate a patient’s 24- hour Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets dosage than to overestimate the 24-hour Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to overdose. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for an extended period of time, and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see WARNINGS; Withdrawal , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [ see Warnings ]. Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [ see Warnings ]. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [ see Warnings ]. Patient Access to an Opioid Overdose Reversal Agent for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Inform patients and caregivers about opioid overdose reversal agents (e.g., naloxone, nalmefene). Discuss the importance of having access to an opioid overdose reversal agent, especially if the patient has risk factors for overdose (e.g., concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose) or if there are household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the management of pain in any patient [see WARNINGS; Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse ; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ]. Discuss the options for obtaining an opioid overdose reversal agent (e.g., prescription, over-the-counter, or as part of a community-based program). There are important differences among the opioid overdose reversal agents, such as route of administration, product strength, approved patient age range, and pharmacokinetics. Be familiar with these differences, as outlined in the approved labeling for those products, prior to recommending or prescribing such an agent. Continually reevaluate patients receiving Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal and other adverse reactions, as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see WARNINGS ]. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed, (including an increase in pain after dosage increase) consider reducing the dosage. [see WARNINGS ]. Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue Hydrocodone Bitartrate in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. Rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. If withdrawal symptoms arise, it may be necessary to pause the taper for a period of time or raise the dose of the opioid analgesic to the previous dose and then proceed with a slower taper. Many acute pain conditions (eg., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. Initial Dosage Use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets as the First Opioid Analgesic 2.5 mg/325 mg 5 mg/325 mg Initiate treatment with Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets in a dosing range of 1 to 2 tablets every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain, at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. 7.5 mg/325 mg 10 mg/325 mg Initiate treatment with Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets with 1 tablet every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain, at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the management of pain in any patient [see WARNINGS ; Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression; Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ]. Continually reevaluate patients receiving Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reaction as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see WARNINGS ]. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see WARNINGS ]. Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Ensure accuracy when prescribing, dispensing, and administering Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution to avoid dosing errors due to confusion between mg and mL, and with other hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen oral solutions of different concentrations, which could result in accidental overdose and death. Ensure the proper dose is communicated and dispensed. When writing prescriptions, include both the total dose in mg and the total dose in volume. Always use a calibrated measuring device when administering Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution to ensure the dose is measured and administered accurately. Health care providers should recommend a dropper that can measure and deliver the prescribed dose accurately, and instruct caregivers to use extreme caution in measuring the dosage. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see WARNINGS ] . Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually; taking into account the patient's severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see WARNINGS ]. Follow patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24-72 hours of initiating therapy and following dosage increases with Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution and adjust the dosage accordingly [see WARNINGS ]. Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution [see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients ]. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [ see WARNINGS, Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse , Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression , Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ]. Initial Dosage Initiating Treatment with Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution The usual adult dosage is one tablespoonful (15 mL) every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain. The total daily dosage for adults should not exceed 6 tablespoonfuls. The usual dosages for children are given by the table below and, is to be given every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain. The total daily dosage for children should not exceed 6 doses per day. These dosages correspond to an average individual dose of 0.27 mL/kg of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution (providing 0.135 mg/kg of hydrocodone bitartrate and 5.85 mg/kg of acetaminophen). Dosing should be based on weight whenever possible. It is of utmost importance that the dose of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution be administered accurately. A household teaspoon or tablespoon is not an adequate measuring device, especially when one-half or three-fourths of a teaspoonful is to be measured. Given the variability of the household spoon measure it is strongly recommended that caregivers obtain and use a calibrated measuring device. BODY WEIGHT APPROXIMATE AGE DOSE every 4 to 6 hours MAXIMUM TOTAL DAILY DOSE (6 doses per day) 12 to 15 kg 27 to 34 lbs. 2 to 3 years ¾ teaspoonful = 3.75 mL 4 ½ teaspoonfuls = 22.5 mL 16 to 22 kg 35 to 50 lbs. 4 to 6 years 1 teaspoonful = 5 mL 6 teaspoonfuls = 30 mL 23 to 31 kg 51 to 69 lbs. 7 to 9 years 1 ½ teaspoonfuls = 7.5 mL 9 teaspoonfuls = 45 mL 32 to 45 kg 70 to 100 lbs. 10 to 13 years 2 teaspoonfuls = 10 mL 12 teaspoonfuls = 60 mL 46 kg and up 101 lbs. and up 14 years to adult 1 Tablespoonful = 15 mL 6 Tablespoonfuls = 90 mL Conversion from Other Opioids to Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution There is inter-patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and opioid formulations. Therefore, a conservative approach is advised when determining the total daily dosage of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution. It is safer to underestimate a patient's 24-hour Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution dosage than to overestimate the 24-hour Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to overdose. Conversion from Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution to Extended-Release Hydrocodone The relative bioavailability of hydrocodone from Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution compared to extended-release hydrocodone is unknown, so conversion to extended-release tablets must be accompanied by close observation for signs of excessive sedation and respiratory depression. Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions, as well as monitoring for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see WARNINGS ]. If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution dosage. If unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed, consider reducing the dosage. Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution Do not abruptly discontinue Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the dose of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. For patients on Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. In addition, monitor patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for a long duration and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see WARNINGS/Withdrawal , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see WARNINGS ]. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see WARNINGS ]. Follow patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24-72 hours of initiating therapy and following dosage increases with hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets and adjust the dosage accordingly [see WARNINGS ]. Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets [see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression; PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. Consider prescribing naloxone when the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose . Initial Dosage Initiating Treatment with Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets 2.5 mg/325 mg The usual adult dosage is one or two tablets every four to six hours as needed for pain. 5 mg/325 mg The usual adult dosage is one or two tablets every four to six hours as needed for pain. 7.5 mg/325 mg, 10 mg/325 mg The usual adult dosage is one tablet every four to six hours as needed for pain. Continually reevaluate patients receiving hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions, as well as monitoring for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see WARNINGS ]. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the dose of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see WARNINGS/ Withdrawal, DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Initiate thedosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient'sseverity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic treatment experience, andrisk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see WARNINGS ]. Monitorpatients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24 to 72hours of initiating therapy and following dosage increases with hydrocodonebitartrate and acetaminophen tablets and adjust the dosage accordingly [see WARNINGS ]. Dosage should be adjusted according tothe severity of the pain and the response of the patient. However, it should bekept in mind that tolerance to hydrocodone can develop with continued use andthat the incidence of untoward effects is dose related. Initial Dosage Treatment with Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets The usual adult dosageis one tablet every four to six hours as needed for pain. The total dailydosage should not exceed 6 tablets. 7.5 mg/325 mg The usual adult dosage is one tablet every four to six hours as needed for pain. 10 mg/325 mg The usual adult dosage is one tablet every four to six hours as needed for pain. Titrationand Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate hydrocodonebitartrate and acetaminophen tablets to a dose that provides adequate analgesiaand minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving hydrocodonebitartrate and acetaminophen tablets to assess the maintenance of pain controland the relative incidence of adverse reactions, as well as monitoring for thedevelopment of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see WARNINGS ]. Frequentcommunication is important among the prescriber, other members of thehealthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods ofchanging analgesic requirements, including initial titration. If the levelof pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source ofincreased pain before increasing the hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophentablets dosage. If unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed,consider reducing the dosage. Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriatebalance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions. Discontinuation of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets When apatient who has been taking hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tabletsregularly and may be physically dependent no longer requires therapy with hydrocodonebitartrate and acetaminophen tablets, use a gradual downward titration of thedosage to prevent signs and symptoms of withdrawal. Do not stop hydrocodonebitartrate and acetaminophen tablets abruptly [see WARNINGS , DRUG ABUSE ANDDEPENDENCE ].
Warnings: WARNINGS Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets contain hydrocodone, a Schedule II controlled substance. As an opioid, hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets expose users to the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. Although the risk of addiction in any individual is unknown, it can occur in patients appropriately prescribed hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets. Addiction can occur at recommended dosages and if the drug is misused or abused. Assess each patient's risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse prior to prescribing hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets, and reassess all patients receiving hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets for the development of these behaviors and conditions. Risks are increased in patients with a personal or family history of substance abuse (including drug or alcohol abuse or addiction) or mental illness (e.g., major depression). The potential for these risks should not, however, prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient. Patients at increased risk may be prescribed opioids such as hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets, but use in such patients necessitates intensive counseling about the risks and proper use of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets along with frequent reevaluation for signs of addiction, abuse, and misuse. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Patient Access to Naloxone for The Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ]. Opioids are sought for nonmedical use and are subject to diversion from legitimate prescribed use. Consider these risks when prescribing or dispensing hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets. Strategies to reduce these risks include prescribing the drug in the smallest appropriate quantity and advising the patient on careful storage of the drug during the course of treatment and proper disposal of unused drug. Contact local state professional licensing board or state-controlled substances authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product. Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression has been reported with the use of opioids, even when used as recommended. Respiratory depression, if not immediately recognized and treated, may lead to respiratory arrest and death. Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid antagonists, depending on the patient's clinical status [see OVERDOSAGE ]. Carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) retention from opioid-induced respiratory depression can exacerbate the sedating effects of opioids. While serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression can occur at any time during the use of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets, the risk is greatest during the initiation of therapy or following a dosage increase. To reduce the risk of respiratory depression, proper dosing and titration of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets are essential [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ]. Overestimating the hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets dosage when converting patients from another opioid product can result in a fatal overdose. Accidental ingestion of even one dose of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets, especially by children, can result in respiratory depression and death due to an overdose of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help right away in the event of a known or suspected overdose [see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. Opioids can cause sleep-related breathing disorders including central sleep apnea (CSA) and sleep-related hypoxemia. Opioid use increases the risk of CSA in a dose-dependent fashion. In patients who present with CSA, consider decreasing the opioid dosage using best practices for opioid taper [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ] . Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets. Inform patients and caregivers about the various ways to obtain naloxone as permitted by individual state naloxone dispensing and prescribing requirements or guidelines (e.g., by prescription, directly from a pharmacist, or as part of a community-based program). Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help, even if naloxone is administered [see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient's risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of other CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient. Also consider prescribing naloxone if the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose. If naloxone is prescribed, educate patients and caregivers on how to treat with naloxone [see WARNINGS, Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse , Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ; PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ; OVERDOSAGE ]. Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets with benzodiazepines and/or other CNS depressants, including alcohol (e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids). Because of these risks, reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Observational studies have demonstrated that concomitant use of opioid analgesics and benzodiazepines increases the risk of drug-related mortality compared to use of opioid analgesics alone. Because of similar pharmacological properties, it is reasonable to expect similar risk with the concomitant use of other CNS depressant drugs with opioid analgesics [see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ]. If the decision is made to prescribe a benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant concomitantly with an opioid analgesic, prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use. In patients already receiving an opioid analgesic, prescribe a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant than indicated in the absence of an opioid, and titrate based on clinical response. If an opioid analgesic is initiated in a patient already taking a benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant, prescribe a lower initial dose of the opioid analgesic, and titrate based on clinical response. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction, educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ]. Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets are used with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants (including alcohol and illicit drugs). Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use of the benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant have been determined. Screen patients for risk of substance use disorders, including opioid abuse and misuse, and warn them of the risk for overdose and death associated with the use of additional CNS depressants including alcohol and illicit drugs [see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions , Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Use of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets for an extended period of time during pregnancy can result in withdrawal in the neonate. Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, unlike opioid withdrawal syndrome in adults, may be life-threatening if not recognized and treated, and requires management according to protocols developed by neonatology experts. Observe newborns for signs of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and manage accordingly. Advise pregnant women using opioids for an extended period of time of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers , Pregnancy ]. Opioid Analgesic Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) To ensure that the benefits of opioid analgesics outweigh the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has required a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) for these products. Under the requirements of the REMS, drug companies with approved opioid analgesic products must make REMS-compliant education programs available to healthcare providers. Healthcare providers are strongly encouraged to do all of the following: Complete a REMS-compliant education program offered by an accredited provider of continuing education (CE) or another education program that includes all the elements of the FDA Education Blueprint for Health Care Providers Involved in the Management or Support of Patients with Pain. Discuss the safe use, serious risks, and proper storage and disposal of opioid analgesics with patients and/or their caregivers every time these medicines are prescribed. The Patient Counseling Guide (PCG) can be obtained at this link: www.fda.gov/OpioidAnalgesicREMSPCG. Emphasize to patients and their caregivers the importance of reading the Medication Guide that they will receive from their pharmacist every time an opioid analgesic is dispensed to them. Consider using other tools to improve patient, household, and community safety, such as patient-prescriber agreements that reinforce patient-prescriber responsibilities. To obtain further information on the opioid analgesic REMS and for a list of accredited REMS CME/CE, call 1-800-503-0784, or log on to www.opioidanalgesicrems.com . The FDA Blueprint can be found at www.fda.gov/OpioidAnalgesicREMSBlueprint. Risks of Concomitant Use or Discontinuation of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets with a CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may increase plasma concentrations of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets and prolong opioid adverse reactions, which may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ], particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets is achieved. Similarly, discontinuation of a CYP3A4 inducer, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, in hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets-treated patients may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions. When adding CYP3A4 inhibitors or discontinuing CYP3A4 inducers in hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets-treated patients, evaluate patients at frequent intervals and consider dosage reduction of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets until stable drug effects are achieved [see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ]. Concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets with CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuation of a CYP3A4 inhibitor could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy or, possibly, lead to a withdrawal syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. When using hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets with CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors, follow patients at frequent intervals and consider increasing the opioid dosage if needed to maintain adequate analgesia or if symptoms of opioid withdrawal occur [see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ]. Hepatotoxicity Acetaminophen has been associated with cases of acute liver failure, at times resulting in liver transplant and death. Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses that exceed 4,000 milligrams per day, and often involve more than one acetaminophen-containing product. The excessive intake of acetaminophen may be intentional to cause self-harm or unintentional as patients attempt to obtain more pain relief or unknowingly take other acetaminophen-containing products. The risk of acute liver failure is higher in individuals with underlying liver disease and in individuals who ingest alcohol while taking acetaminophen. Instruct patients to look for acetaminophen or APAP on package labels and not to use more than one product that contains acetaminophen. Instruct patients to seek medical attention immediately upon ingestion of more than 4,000 milligrams of acetaminophen per day, even if they feel well. Opioid-Induced Hyperalgesia and Allodynia Opioid-Induced Hyperalgesia (OIH) occurs when an opioid analgesic paradoxically causes an increase in pain, or an increase in sensitivity to pain. This condition differs from tolerance, which is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. Symptoms of OIH include (but may not be limited to) increased levels of pain upon opioid dosage increase, decreased levels of pain upon opioid dosage decrease, or pain from ordinarily non-painful stimuli (allodynia). These symptoms may suggest OIH only if there is no evidence of underlying disease progression, opioid tolerance, opioid withdrawal, or addictive behavior. Cases of OIH have been reported, both with short-term and longer-term use of opioid analgesics. Though the mechanism of OIH is not fully understood, multiple biochemical pathways have been implicated. Medical literature suggests a strong biologic plausibility between opioid analgesics and OIH and allodynia. If a patient is suspected to be experiencing OIH, carefully consider appropriately decreasing the dose of the current opioid analgesic, or opioid rotation (safely switching the patient to a different opioid moiety) [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ; WARNINGS ] . Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression in Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease or in Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients The use of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets in patients with acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment is contraindicated. Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablet-treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea, even at recommended dosages of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets [see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients because they may have altered pharmacokinetics or altered clearance compared to younger, healthier patients [see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. Regularly evaluate patients, particularly when initiating and titrating hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets and when hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets are given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration [see WARNINGS ]. Alternatively, consider the use of non-opioid analgesics in these patients. Adrenal Insufficiency Cases of adrenal insufficiency have been reported with opioid use, more often following greater than one month of use. Presentation of adrenal insufficiency may include non-specific symptoms and signs including nausea, vomiting, anorexia, fatigue, weakness, dizziness, and low blood pressure. If adrenal insufficiency is suspected, confirm the diagnosis with diagnostic testing as soon as possible. If adrenal insufficiency is diagnosed, treat with physiologic replacement doses of corticosteroids. Wean the patient off the opioid to allow adrenal function to recover and continue corticosteroid treatment until adrenal function recovers. Other opioids may be tried as some cases reported use of a different opioid without recurrence of adrenal insufficiency. The information available does not identify any particular opioids as being more likely to be associated with adrenal insufficiency. Severe Hypotension Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets may cause severe hypotension including orthostatic hypotension and syncope in ambulatory patients. There is increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs (e.g., phenothiazines or general anesthetics) [see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ]. Regularly evaluate patients for signs of hypotension after initiating or titrating the dosage of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets. In patients with circulatory shock, hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets may cause vasodilatation that can further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. Avoid the use of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets with circulatory shock. Serious Skin Reactions Rarely, acetaminophen may cause serious skin reactions such as acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Patients should be informed about the signs of serious skin reactions, and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Hypersensitivity/Anaphylaxis There have been post-marketing reports of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis associated with use of acetaminophen. Clinical signs included swelling of the face, mouth, and throat, respiratory distress, urticaria, rash, pruritus, and vomiting. There were infrequent reports of life-threatening anaphylaxis requiring emergency medical attention. Instruct patients to discontinue hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms. Do not prescribe hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets for patients with acetaminophen allergy [see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ] . Risks of Use in Patients with Increased Intracranial Pressure, Brain Tumors, Head Injury, or Impaired Consciousness In patients who may be susceptible to the intracranial effects of CO 2 retention (e.g., those with evidence of increased intracranial pressure or brain tumors), hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets may reduce respiratory drive, and the resultant CO 2 retention can further increase intracranial pressure. Follow such patients for signs of sedation and respiratory depression, particularly when initiating therapy with hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets. Opioids may also obscure the clinical course in a patient with a head injury. Avoid the use of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets in patients with impaired consciousness or coma. Risks of Use in Patients with Gastrointestinal Conditions Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets are contraindicated in patients with gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. The administration of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets or other opioids may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions. Hydrocodone may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi. Opioids may cause increases in serum amylase. Regularly evaluate patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis, for worsening symptoms. Increased Risk of Seizures in Patients with Seizure Disorders The hydrocodone in hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets may increase the frequency of seizures in patients with seizure disorders, and may increase the risk of seizures occurring in other clinical settings associated with seizures. Regularly evaluate patients with a history of seizure disorders for worsened seizure control during hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablet therapy. Withdrawal Do not abruptly discontinue hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids. When discontinuing hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets in a physically dependent patient, gradually taper the dosage. Rapid tapering of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids may lead to a withdrawal syndrome and return of pain [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ; DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ] . Additionally, avoid the use of mixed agonist/antagonist (e.g., pentazocine, nalbuphine, and butorphanol) or partial agonist (e.g., buprenorphine) analgesics in patients who are receiving a full opioid agonist analgesic, including hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets. In these patients, mixed agonist/antagonist and partial agonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms [see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ] . As an opioid, Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablet exposes users to the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ] . Assess each patient’s risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse prior to prescribing Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets and reassess all patients receiving Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets for the development of these behaviors or conditions. Patients at increased risk may be prescribed opioids such as Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets but use in such patients necessitates intensive counseling about the risks and proper use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets along with frequent reevaluation for signs of addiction, abuse, and misuse. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression; Dosage and Administration, Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ] . Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid antagonists, depending on the patient’s clinical status [see OVERDOSAGE ] . Carbon dioxide (CO2) retention from opioid-induced respiratory depression can exacerbate the sedating effects of opioids. Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24-72 hours of initiating therapy with and following dosage increases of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets. To reduce the risk of respiratory depression, proper dosing and titration of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets is essential [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ] . Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help right away in the event of a known or suspected overdose [see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients and/or Caregivers ] . Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help, even if naloxone is administered [see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients and/or Caregivers ] . Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of other CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. If naloxone is prescribed, educate patients and caregivers on how to treat with naloxone [see WARNINGS, Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse, Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants; PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients and/or Caregivers , Overdosage ]. Because of similar pharmacological properties, it is reasonable to expect similar risk with the concomitant use of other CNS depressant drugs with opioid analgesics [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ] . If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression; Dosage and Administration, Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ]. Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets are used with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants (including alcohol and illicit drugs). Screen patients for risk of substance use disorders, including opioid abuse and misuse, and warn them of the risk for overdose and death associated with the use of additional CNS depressants including alcohol and illicit drugs [see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions, Information for Patients ] . Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, unlike opioid withdrawal syndrome in adults, may be life- threatening if not recognized and treated, and requires management according to protocols developed by neonatology experts. Advise pregnant women using opioids for an extended period of time of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients, Pregnancy ] . Under the requirements of the REMS, drug companies with approved opioid analgesic products must make REMS- compliant education programs available to healthcare providers. Healthcare providers are strongly encouraged to do all of the following: • Complete a REMS-compliant education program offered by an accredited provider of continuing education (CE) or another education program that includes all the elements of the FDA Education Blueprint for Health Care Providers Involved in the Management or Support of Patients with Pain. • Discuss the safe use, serious risks, and proper storage and disposal of opioid analgesics with patients and/or their caregivers every time these medicines are prescribed. • Emphasize to patients and their caregivers the importance of reading the Medication Guide that they will receive from their pharmacist every time an opioid analgesic is dispensed to them. • Consider using other tools to improve patient, household, and community safety, such as patient-prescriber agreements that reinforce patient-prescriber responsibilities. To obtain further information on the opioid analgesic REMS and for a list of accredited REMS CME/CE, call 800-503-0784, or log on to www.opioidanalgesicrems.com. Risks of Concomitant Use or Discontinuation of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Concomitant use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets with a CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may increase plasma concentrations of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets and prolong opioid adverse reactions, and which may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ] , particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets is achieved. Similarly, discontinuation of a CYP3A4 inducer, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, in Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets -treated patients may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions. When adding CYP3A4 inhibitors or discontinuing CYP3A4 inducers in Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets treated patients, evaluate patients at frequent intervals and consider dosage reduction of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets until stable drug effects are achieved [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ] . Concomitant use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets with CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuation of an CYP3A4 inhibitor could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy or, possibly, lead to a withdrawal syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. When using Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets with CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors, follow patients at frequent intervals and consider increasing the opioid dosage if needed to maintain adequate analgesia or if symptoms of opioid withdrawal occur [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ] . This condition differs from tolerance, which is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect [see Dependence ] . If a patient is suspected to be experiencing OIH, carefully consider appropriately decreasing the dose of the current opioid analgesic, or opioid rotation (safely switching the patient to a different opioid moiety) [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , WARNINGS ]. Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease : Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablet treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea, even at recommended dosages of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets [see WARNINGS; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients : Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients because they may have altered pharmacokinetics or altered clearance compared to younger, healthier patients [see WARNINGS; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. Regularly evaluate patients, particularly when initiating and titrating Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets and when Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets are given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration [ see WARNINGS; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. Wean the patient off of the opioid to allow adrenal function to recover and continue corticosteroid treatment until adrenal function recovers. There is increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs (e.g., phenothiazines or general anesthetics) [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ]. Follow these patients for signs of hypotension after initiating or titrating the dosage of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets. In patients with circulatory shock Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets may cause vasodilatation that can further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. Hepatotoxicity/Anaphylaxis There have been post-marketing reports of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis associated with the use of acetaminophen. Do not prescribe Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets for patients with acetaminophen allergy [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers ] . Follow patients with a history of seizure disorders for worsened seizure control during Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablet therapy. Rapid tapering of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids may lead to a withdrawal syndrome and return of pain [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ] Additionally, avoid the use of mixed agonist/antagonist (e.g, pentazocine, nalbuphine, and butorphanol) or partial agonist (e.g., buprenorphine) analgesics in patients who are receiving a full opioid agonist analgesic, including Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets. In these patients, mixed agonist/antagonist and partial agonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms [see PRECAUTIONS/ Drug Interactions ] . WARNINGS Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets contains hydrocodone, a Schedule II controlled substance. As an opioid, Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets exposes users to the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. Assess each patient’s risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse prior to prescribing Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets, and reassess all patients receiving Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets for the development of these behaviors and conditions. To reduce the risk of respiratory depression, proper dosing and titration of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets are essential [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ] . If naloxone is prescribed, educate patients and caregivers on how to treat with naloxone [see WARNINGS, Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse , Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ; PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets with benzodiazepines and/or other CNS depressants, including alcohol (e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, alcohol). Because of similar pharmacological properties, it is reasonable to expect similar risk with the concomitant use of other CNS depressant drugs with opioid analgesics [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ]. Screen patients for risk of substance use disorders, including opioid abuse and misuse, and warn them of the risk for overdose and death associated with the use of additional CNS depressants including alcohol and illicit drugs [see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions, Information for Patients ]. Advise pregnant women using opioids for an extended period of time of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients , Pregnancy ]. The Patient Counseling Guide (PCG) can be obtained at this link: www.fda.gov/OpioidAnalgesicREMSPCG . To obtain further information on the opioid analgesic REMS and for a list of accredited REMS CME/CE, call 800-503-0784, or log on to www.opioidanalgesicrems.com . The FDA Blueprint can be found at www.fda.gov/OpioidAnalgesicREMSBlueprint . Risks of Concomitant Use or Discontinuation of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Concomitant use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets with a CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may increase plasma concentrations of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets and prolong opioid adverse reactions, which may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ] , particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets are achieved. When adding CYP3A4 inhibitors or discontinuing CYP3A4 inducers in Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets-treated patients, evaluate patients at frequent intervals and consider dosage reduction of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets until stable drug effects are achieved [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ]. When using Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets with CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors, follow patients at frequent intervals and consider increasing the opioid dosage if needed to maintain adequate analgesia or if symptoms of opioid withdrawal occur [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ]. This condition differs from tolerance, which is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect [see Dependence ]. If a patient is suspected to be experiencing OIH, carefully consider appropriately decreasing the dose of the current opioid analgesic or opioid rotation (safely switching the patient to a different opioid moiety) [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , WARNINGS ]. Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease : Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablet-treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea, even at recommended dosages of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets [see WARNINGS; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. Regularly evaluate, particularly when initiating and titrating Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets and when Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets are given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration [see WARNINGS; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ] . There is increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs (e.g., phenothiazines or general anesthetics) [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ] . Regularly evaluate these patients for signs of hypotension after initiating or titrating the dosage of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets. Do not prescribe Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets for patients with acetaminophen allergy [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients ]. Rapid tapering of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids may lead to a withdrawal syndrome and return of pain [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. Additionally, avoid the use of mixed agonist/antagonist (e.g, pentazocine, nalbuphine, and butorphanol) or partial agonist (e.g., buprenorphine) analgesics in patients who are receiving a full opioid agonist analgesic, including Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets. In these patients, mixed agonist/antagonist and partial agonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ]. WARNINGS Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablet contains hydrocodone, a Schedule II controlled substance. The risk of opioid-related overdose or overdose-related death is increased with higher opioid doses, and this risk persists over the course of therapy. In postmarketing studies, addiction, abuse, misuse, and fatal and non-fatal opioid overdose were observed in patients with long-term opioid use [ ADVERSE REACTIONS ] . Consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; Dosage and Administration, Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ]. Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid overdose reversal agents, depending on the patient’s clinical status [see OVERDOSAGE ]. In patients who present with CSA, consider decreasing the opioid dosage using best practices for opioid taper [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ]. Patient Access to an Opioid Overdose Reversal Agent for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Inform patients and caregivers about opioid overdose reversal agents (e.g., naloxone, nalmefene). Discuss the importance of having access to an opioid overdose reversal agent, especially if the patient has risk factors for overdose (e.g., concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose) or if there are household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the management of pain in any patient [see WARNINGS]. Discuss the options for obtaining an opioid overdose reversal agent (e.g., prescription, over-the-counter, or as part of a community-based program). There are important differences among the opioid overdose reversal agents, such as route of administration, product strength, approved patient age range, and pharmacokinetics. Be familiar with these differences, as outlined in the approved labeling for those products, prior to recommending or prescribing such an agent. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression, and how to use an opioid overdose reversal agent for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help, even if an opioid overdose reversal agent is administered [see WARNINGS , OVERDOSAGE ]. Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets with benzodiazepines and/or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, (e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, gabapentinoids [gabapentin or pregabalin], other opioids). If concomitant use is warranted, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ]. Screen patients for risk of substance use disorders, including opioid abuse and misuse, and warn them of the risk for overdose and death associated with the use of additional CNS depressants including alcohol and illicit drugs [see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions , Information for Patients ]. Use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets for an extended period of time during pregnancy can result in withdrawal in the neonate. Advise pregnant women using opioids for an extended period of time of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [ see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients , Pregnancy ]. To ensure that the benefits of opioid analgesics outweigh the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has required a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) for these products. To obtain further information on the opioid analgesic REMS and for a list of accredited REMS CME/CE, call 800-503-0784, or log on to www.opioidanalgesicrems.com.The FDA Blueprint can be found at www.fda.gov/OpioidAnalgesicREMSBlueprint. Concomitant use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets with a CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may increase plasma concentrations of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets and prolong opioid adverse reactions, and which may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ], particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets is achieved. When using Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets withCYP3A4 inducers or discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors, follow patients at frequent intervals and consider increasing the opioid dosage if needed to maintain adequate analgesia or if symptoms of opioid withdrawal occur [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ]. Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease : Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablet-treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea, even at recommended dosages of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets [see WARNINGS; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression] . Elderly, Cachetic, or Debilitated Patients : Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients because they may have altered pharmacokinetics or altered clearance compared to younger, healthier patients [see WARNINGS; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. Regularly evaluate patients, particularly when initiating and titrating Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets and when Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets is given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration [see WARNINGS; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. Hypersensitivity/Anaphylaxis There have been post-marketing reports of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis associated with the use of acetaminophen. Do not prescribe Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets for patients with acetaminophen allergy [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. Followsuch patients for signs of sedation and respiratory depression, particularly when initiating therapywith Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets. Avoid the use ofHydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets in patients with impaired consciousness or coma. The Hydrocodone in Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi. Cases of opioid-induced esophageal dysfunction (OIED) have been reported in patients taking opioids. The risk of OIED may increase as the dose and/or duration of opioids increases. Regularly evaluate patients for signs and symptoms of OIED (e.g., dysphagia, regurgitation, non-cardiac chest pain), and, if necessary, adjust opioid therapy as clinically appropriate [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ]. Withdrawal Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids. Additionally, avoid the use of mixed agonist/antagonist (e.g, pentazocine, nalbuphine, and butorphanol) or partial agonist (e.g.,buprenorphine) analgesics in patients who are receiving a full opioid agonist analgesic, including Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets. In these patients, mixed agonist/antagonist and partial agonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms [see PRECAUTIONS/ Drug Interactions ]. WARNINGS NA Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets contain hydrocodone, a Schedule II controlled substance. In postmarketing studies, addiction, abuse, misuse, and fatal and non-fatal opioid overdose were observed in patients with long-term opioid use [see ADVERSE REACTIONS ]. Consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see WARNINGS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ]. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the management of pain in any patient [see WARNINGS ]. Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets with benzodiazepines and/or other CNS depressants, including alcohol (e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, gabapentinoids [gabapentin or pregabalin], and other opioids). Because of similar pharmacological properties, it is reasonable to expect similar risk with the concomitant use of other CNS depressant drugs with opioid analgesics [see PRECAUTIONS ; Drug Interactions]. If concomitant use is warranted, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see WARNINGS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION and OVERDOSAGE ]. Advise pregnant women using opioids for an extended period of time of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [see PRECAUTIONS ; Information for Patients , Pregnancy ]. Healthcare providers are strongly encouraged to do all of the following: • Complete a REMS-compliant education program offered by an accredited provider of continuing education (CE) or another education program that includes all the elements of the FDA Education Blueprint for Healthcare Providers Involved in the Management or Support of Patients with Pain. To obtain further information on the opioid analgesic REMS and for a list of accredited REMS CME/CE, call 800- 503-0784, or log on to www.opioidanalgesicrems.com . Risks of Concomitant Use or Discontinuation of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Concomitant use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets with a CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may increase plasma concentrations of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets and prolong opioid adverse reactions, and which may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ], particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets are achieved. When adding CYP3A4 inhibitors or discontinuing CYP3A4 inducers in Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets-treated patients, evaluate patients at frequent intervals and consider dosage reduction of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets until stable drug effects are achieved [see PRECAUTIONS ; Drug Interactions ]. When using Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets with CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors, follow patients at frequent intervals and consider increasing the opioid dosage if needed to maintain adequate analgesia or if symptoms of opioid withdrawal occur [see PRECAUTIONS ; Drug Interactions ]. Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease : Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablet-treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea, even at recommended dosages of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets [see WARNINGS ; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients : Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients because they may have altered pharmacokinetics or altered clearance compared to younger, healthier patients [see WARNINGS ; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. Regularly evaluate patients, particularly when initiating and titrating Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets and when Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets are given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration [see WARNINGS ; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. There is increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs (e.g., phenothiazines or general anesthetics) [see PRECAUTIONS ; Drug Interactions ]. Do not prescribe Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets for patients with acetaminophen allergy [see PRECAUTIONS ; Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. Risks of Gastrointestinal Complications Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets are contraindicated in patients with gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. Regularly evaluate patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis for worsening symptoms. In these patients, mixed agonist/antagonist and partial agonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms [see PRECAUTIONS ; Drug Interactions ]. WARNINGS Risk of Accidental Overdose and Death due to Medication Errors Dosing errors can result in accidental overdose and death. Avoid dosing errors that may result from confusion between mg and mL and confusion with Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solutions of different concentrations, when prescribing, dispensing, and administering Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution. Ensure that the dose is communicated clearly and dispensed accurately. Always use a calibrated measuring device when administering Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution to ensure the dose is measured and administered accurately. Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution contains hydrocodone, a Schedule II controlled substance. As an opioid, Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution exposes users to the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. Although the risk of addiction in any individual is unknown, it can occur in patients appropriately prescribed Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution. Assess each patient's risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse prior to prescribing Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution, and monitor all patients receiving Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution for the development of these behaviors and conditions. Patients at increased risk may be prescribed opioids such as Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution, but use in such patients necessitates intensive counseling about the risks and proper use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution along with intensive monitoring for signs of addiction, abuse, and misuse. Opioids are sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders and are subject to criminal diversion. Consider these risks when prescribing or dispensing Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution. Strategies to reduce these risks include prescribing the drug in the smallest appropriate quantity and advising the patient on the proper disposal of unused drug [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients ]. Contact local state professional licensing board or state controlled substances authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product. The Patient Counseling Guide (PCG) can be obtained at this link: www.opioidanalgesicrems.com Emphasize to patients and their caregivers the importance of reading the Medication Guide that they will receive from their pharmacist every time an opioid analgesic is dispensed to them. While serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression can occur at any time during the use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution, the risk is greatest during the initiation of therapy or following a dosage increase. Follow patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24-72 hours of initiating therapy with and following dosage increases of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution. To reduce the risk of respiratory depression, proper dosing and titration of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution are essential [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ]. Overestimating the Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution dosage when converting patients from another opioid product can result in a fatal overdose. Accidental ingestion of even one dose of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution especially by children, can result in respiratory depression and death due to an overdose of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help right away in the event of a known or suspected overdose [see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients ]. Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help, even if naloxone is administered [see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients ]. If naloxone is prescribed, educate patients and caregivers on how to treat with naloxone [see WARNINGS, Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse , Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ; PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients ]. Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Prolonged use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution during pregnancy can result in withdrawal in the neonate. Advise pregnant women using opioids for a prolonged period of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients , Pregnancy ]. Risks of Concomitant Use or Discontinuation of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Concomitant use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution with a CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may increase plasma concentrations of hydrocodone and prolong opioid adverse reactions, and which may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ], particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution is achieved . Similarly, discontinuation of a CYP3A4 inducer, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, in Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution-treated patients may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions. When using Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution with CYP3A4 inhibitors or discontinuing CYP3A4 inducers in Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution-treated patients, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider dosage reduction of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution until stable drug effects are achieved [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ] . Concomitant use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution with CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuation of an CYP3A4 inhibitor could decrease hydrocodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy or, possibly, lead to a withdrawal syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution. When using Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution with CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors, follow patients at frequent intervals and consider increasing the opioid dosage if needed to maintain adequate analgesia or if symptoms of opioid withdrawal occur [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ]. Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants (e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, alcohol). Follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution is used with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants (including alcohol and illicit drugs). Screen patients for risk of substance use disorders, including opioid abuse and misuse, and warn them of the risk for overdose and death associated with the use of additional CNS depressants including alcohol and illicit drugs [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions , Information for Patients ]. Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression in Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease or in Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients The use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution in patients with acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment is contraindicated. Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution-treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea, even at recommended dosages of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution [see WARNINGS; Life Threatening Respiratory Depression ] . Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients because they may have altered pharmacokinetics or altered clearance compared to younger, healthier patients [see WARNINGS; Life Threatening Respiratory Depression ] . Follow such patients closely, particularly when initiating and titrating Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution and when Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution is given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration [see WARNINGS; Life Threatening Respiratory Depression ] . Severe Hypotension Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution may cause severe hypotension including orthostatic hypotension and syncope in ambulatory patients. Follow these patients for signs of hypotension after initiating or titrating the dosage of hydrocodone and acetaminophen tablets and oral solution. In patients with circulatory shock hydrocodone and acetaminophen tablets and oral solution may cause vasodilatation that can further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. Avoid the use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution with circulatory shock. Hypersensitivity/Anaphylaxis There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis associated with the use of acetaminophen. Instruct patients to discontinue Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms. Do not prescribe Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution for patients with acetaminophen allergy [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. Risks of Use in Patients with Increased Intracranial Pressure, Brain Tumors, Head Injury, or Impaired Consciousness In patients who may be susceptible to the intracranial effects of CO 2 retention (e.g., those with evidence of increased intracranial pressure or brain tumors), hydrocodone and acetaminophen tablets and oral solution may reduce respiratory drive, and the resultant CO 2 retention can further increase intracranial pressure. Follow such patients for signs of sedation and respiratory depression, particularly when initiating therapy with hydrocodone and acetaminophen tablets and oral solution. Avoid the use of hydrocodone and acetaminophen tablets and oral solution in patients with impaired consciousness or coma. Risks of Use in Patients with Gastrointestinal Conditions Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution is contraindicated in patients with gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. The administration of Hydrocodone and Acetaminophen Oral Solution or other opioids may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions. The hydrocodone in Hydrocodone and Acetaminophen Oral Solution may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi. Follow patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis, for worsening symptoms. Increased Risk of Seizures in Patients with Seizure Disorders The hydrocodone in Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution may increase the frequency of seizures in patients with seizure disorders, and may increase the risk of seizures occurring in other clinical settings associated with seizures. Follow patients with a history of seizure disorders for worsened seizure control during Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution therapy. Withdrawal Do not abruptly discontinue Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution in a patient physically dependent on opioids. When discontinuing Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution in a physically dependent patient, gradually taper the dosage. Rapid tapering of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution in a patient physically dependent on opioids may lead to a withdrawal syndrome and return of pain [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. Additionally, avoid the use of mixed agonist/antagonist (e.g., pentazocine, nalbuphine, and butorphanol) or partial agonist (e.g., buprenorphine) analgesics in patients who are receiving a full opioid agonist analgesic, including Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution. Although the risk of addiction in any individual is unknown, it can occur in patient’s appropriately prescribed hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets. Assess each patient’s risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse prior to prescribing hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets, and monitor all patients receiving hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets for the development of these behaviors and conditions. Patients at increased risk may be prescribed opioids such as hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets, but use in such patients necessitates intensive counseling about the risks and proper use of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets along with intensive monitoring for signs of addiction, abuse, and misuse. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS , Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ]. Consider using other tools to improve patient, household, and community safety, such as patient-prescriber agreements that reinforce patient- prescriber responsibilities. Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid antagonists, depending on the patient’s clinical status [see OVERDOSAGE ]. If naloxone is prescribed, educate patients and caregivers on how to treat with naloxone [see WARNINGS, Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse, Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants; PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Prolonged use of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets during pregnancy can result in withdrawal in the neonate. Risks of Concomitant Use or Discontinuation of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets with a CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may increase plasma concentrations of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets and prolong opioid adverse reactions, and which may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ], particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets is achieved. Similarly, discontinuation of a CYP3A4 inducer, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, in hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets-treated patients may increase hydrocodone plasma concentrations and prolong opoid adverse reactions. When adding CYP3A4 inhibitors or discontinuing CYP3A4 inducers in hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets-treated patients, follow patients at frequent intervals and consider dosage reduction of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets until stable drug effects are achieved [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ]. Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants (e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, alcohol). Follow such patients closely, particularly when initiating and titrating hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets and when hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets is given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration [see WARNINGS; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. Do not prescribe hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets for patients with acetaminophen allergy [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers] . Monitor patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis, for worsening symptoms. Rapid tapering of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids may lead to a withdrawal syndrome and return of pain [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. WARNINGS Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablet contains hydrocodone and acetaminophen a Schedule CII controlled substance. As an opioid, hydrocodone bitartrate andacetaminophen tablets exposes users to the risks of addiction, abuse, andmisuse [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. Although therisk of addiction in any individual is unknown, it can occur in patients appropriately prescribed hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets.Addiction can occur at recommended dosages and if the drug is misused orabused. Assess eachpatient’s risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse prior to prescribing hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets, and monitor all patients receiving hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets for the development of these behaviors or conditions. Risks are increased in patients with a personal or family historyof substance abuse (including drug or alcohol abuse or addiction) or mental illness (e.g., major depression). Patients at increased risk may be prescribed opioids such as hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets, but use in such patients necessitates intensive counseling about the risks andproperuse of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets along with intensive monitoring for signs of addiction, abuse, and misuse. Strategies to reduce these risks includeprescribing the drug in the smallest appropriate quantity and advising thepatient on the proper disposal of unused drug [see PRECAUTIONS ; Information for Patients]. Contact local state professional licensing board or statecontrolled substances authority for information on how to prevent and detectabuse or diversion of this product. Hepatotoxicity Acetaminophenhas been associated with cases of acute liver failure, at times resulting inliver transplant and death. Most of the cases of liver injury are associated withthe use of acetaminophen at doses that exceed 4,000 milligrams per day, andoften involve more than one acetaminophen-containing product. The excessiveintake of acetaminophen may be intentional to cause self-harm or unintentionalas patients attempt to obtain more pain relief or unknowingly take otheracetaminophen-containing products. The riskof acute liver failure is higher in individuals who ingest alcohol while taking acetaminophen. Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression has been reported with theuse of opioids, even when used as recommended. Respiratory depression, if notimmediately recognized and treated, may lead to respiratory arrest and death.Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid antagonists, depending on the patient’s clinical status [see OVERDOSAGE ]. Carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) retention from opioid-induced respiratory depression can exacerbate the sedating effects ofopioids. While serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression can occur at anytime during the use of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets, therisk is greatest during the initiation of therapy or following a dosageincrease. Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especiallywithin the first 24 to 72 hours of initiating therapy with and following dosage increases of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets. To reduce therisk of respiratory depression, proper dosing and titration of hydrocodonebitartrate and acetaminophen tablets are essential [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ]. Overestimating the hydrocodone bitartrate andacetaminophen tablets dosage when converting patients from another opioidproduct can result in a fatal overdose with the first dose. Accidentalingestion of even one dose of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets,especially by children, can result in respiratory depression and death due toan overdose of hydrocodoneand acetaminophen. Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Prolonged useof hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets during pregnancy can resultin withdrawal in the neonate. Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, unlikeopioid withdrawal syndrome in adults, may be life-threatening if not recognizedand treated, and requires management according to protocols developed byneonatology experts. If opioid use is required for a prolonged period in apregnant woman, advise the patient of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawalsyndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [see PRECAUTIONS ;Information for Patients, Pregnancy]. Drug Interactions Patientsreceiving other narcotic analgesics, antihistamines, antipsychotics, antianxietyagents, or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantly withhydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets may exhibit an additive CNSdepression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or bothagents should be reduced. The use of MAO inhibitors or tricyclicantidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of eitherthe antidepressant or hydrocodone. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Acetaminophenmay produce false-positive test results for urinary 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility Noadequate studies have been conducted in animals to determine whetherhydrocodone or acetaminophen have a potential for carcinogenesis, mutagenesis,or impairment of fertility. Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects PregnancyCategory C Thereare no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets should be used during pregnancy only ifthe potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Nonteratogenic Effects Babies born to mothers who have been taking opioids regularly prior to delivery will be physically dependent. The withdrawal signs include irritability and excessive crying, tremors, hyperactive reflexes, increased respiratory rate, increased stools, sneezing, yawning, vomiting, and fever. The intensity of the syndrome does not always correlate with the duration of maternal opioid use ordose. There is no consensus on the best method of managing withdrawal. Labor and Delivery Aswith all narcotics, administration of this product to the mother shortly beforedelivery may result in some degree of respiratory depression in the newborn,especially if higher doses are used. Nursing Mothers Acetaminophenis excreted in breast milk in small amounts, but the significance of itseffects on nursing infants is not known. It is not known whether hydrocodone isexcreted in human milk. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk andbecause of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants fromhydrocodone and acetaminophen, a decision should be made whether to discontinuenursing or to discontinue the drug, taking into account the importance of thedrug to the mother. Pediatric Use Safetyand effectiveness in the pediatric population have not been established. Geriatric Use Clinicalstudies of hydrocodone bitartrate 5 mg and acetaminophen 500 mg did not includesufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether theyrespond differently from younger subjects. Other reported clinical experiencehas not identified differences in responses between the elderly and youngerpatients. In general, dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious,usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greaterfrequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitantdisease or other drug therapy. Hydrocodoneand the major metabolites of acetaminophen are known to be substantiallyexcreted by the kidney. Thus the risk of toxic reactions may be greater inpatients with impaired renal function due to the accumulation of the parentcompound and/or metabolites in the plasma. Because elderly patients are morelikely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in doseselection, and it may be useful to monitor renal function. Hydrocodonemay cause confusion and over-sedation in the elderly; elderly patientsgenerally should be started on low doses of hydrocodone bitartrate andacetaminophen tablets and observed closely. Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants (e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics,tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, alcohol). Because of similar pharmacological properties, it is reasonable to expect similar risk with the concomitant use of other CNS depressant drugs with opioid analgesics [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions]. Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablet is used with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants (including alcohol and illicit drugs). Advice patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use of the benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant have been determined. Screen patients for risk of substance use disorders, including opioid abuse and misuse, and warn them of the risk for overdose and death associated with the use of additional CNS depressants including alcohol and illicit drugs [see PRECAUTIONS ; Drug Interactions) and PRECAUTIONS ; Information for Patients ]. Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression in Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease or in Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients The use of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets in patients with acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipmentis contraindicated. Patientswith Chronic Pulmonary Disease: Hydrocodonebitartrate and acetaminophen tablets-treated patients with significant chronicobstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantiallydecreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existingrespiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory driveincluding apnea, even at recommended dosages of hydrocodone bitartrate andacetaminophen tablets [see WARNINGS ] . Elderly,Cachetic, or Debilitated Patients: Life-threateningrespiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, ordebilitated patients because they may have altered pharmacokinetics or alteredclearance compared to younger, healthier patients [see WARNINGS]. Monitor suchpatients closely, particularly when initiating and titrating hydrocodonebitartrate and acetaminophen tablets and when hydrocodone bitartrate andacetaminophen tablets is given concomitantly with other drugs that depressrespiration [see WARNINGS ].Alternatively, consider the use ofnon-opioid analgesics in these patients. Adrenal Insufficiency Cases of adrenal insufficiency have beenreported with opioid use, more often following greater than 1 month of use.Presentation of adrenal insufficiency may include non-specific symptoms andsigns including nausea, vomiting, anorexia, fatigue, weakness, dizziness, andlow blood pressure. If adrenal insufficiency is suspected, confirm thediagnosis with diagnostic testing as soon as possible. If adrenal insufficiencyis diagnosed, treat with physiologic replacement doses of corticosteroids. Weanthe patient off of the opioid to allow adrenal function to recover and continuecorticosteroid treatment until adrenal function recovers. Other opioids may betried as some cases reported use of a different opioid without recurrence ofadrenal insufficiency. The information available does not identify anyparticular opioids as being more likely to be associated with adrenal insufficiency.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see WARNINGS ] Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see WARNINGS ] Hypersensitivity to hydrocodone or acetaminophen (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see WARNINGS ; ADVERSE REACTIONS ] CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablet is contraindicated in patients with: • Significant respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ] • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see WARNINGS ] • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see WARNINGS ] • Hypersensitivity to hydrocodone or acetaminophen (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see WARNINGS , ADVERSE REACTIONS ] CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see WARNINGS ] Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see WARNINGS ] Hypersensitivity to hydrocodone or acetaminophen (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see WARNINGS , ADVERSE REACTIONS ] CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets are contraindicated in patients with: • Significant respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ] • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see WARNINGS ] • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see WARNINGS ] • Hypersensitivity to hydrocodone or acetaminophen (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see WARNINGS , ADVERSE REACTIONS ] CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution is contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see WARNINGS ] Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see WARNINGS ] Hypersensitivity to hydrocodone or acetaminophen (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see WARNINGS , ADVERSE REACTIONS ] CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydrocodonebitartrate and acetaminophen tablets are contraindicated in patients with: • Significant respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ] • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see WARNINGS] • Hypersensitivity to hydrocodone or acetaminophen • Hypersensitive to other opioids which may exhibit cross-sensitivity to hydrocodone
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 The concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets and CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), can increase the plasma concentration of the hydrocodone from hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets and both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitors, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets is achieved [see WARNINGS ]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the hydrocodone plasma concentration will decrease [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ], resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets. If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate patients at frequent intervals for respiratory depression and sedation. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate for signs or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Inducers of CYP3A4 The concomitant use of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets and CYP3A4 inducers, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, can decrease the plasma concentration of hydrocodone [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ], resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to hydrocodone [see WARNINGS ]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the hydrocodone plasma concentration will increase [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ], which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Assess the patient for signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets dosage reduction and evaluate patients at frequent intervals for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Benzodiazepines and other CNS Depressants Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines and other CNS depressants, such as benzodiazepines and other sedative hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, and other opioids, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction, educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS ] . Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue), has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. If concomitant use is warranted, frequently evaluate the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets immediately if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The concomitant use of opioids and MAOIs, such as phenelzine, tranylcypromine, or linezolid, may manifest as serotonin syndrome, or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see WARNINGS ]. The use of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. If urgent use of an opioid is necessary, use test doses and frequent titration of small doses to treat pain while closely monitoring blood pressure and signs and symptoms of CNS and respiratory depression. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics The concomitant use of opioids with other opioid analgesics, such as butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, may reduce the analgesic effect of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Advise patient to avoid concomitant use of these drugs. Muscle Relaxants Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Because respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected, decrease the dosage of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS ] . Diuretics Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Evaluate patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Anticholinergic Drugs The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Evaluate patients for signs and symptoms of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets are used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Drug Interactions Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 The concomitant use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets and CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), can increase the plasma concentration of the Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets plasma concentration will decrease [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ], resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved.Evaluate for signs or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Inducers of CYP3A4 The concomitant use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets and CYP3A4 inducers, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, can decrease the plasma concentration of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ], resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets [see WARNINGS ]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets plasma concentration will increase [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ], which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. Evaluate the patient for signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets dosage reduction and follow for signs of respiratory depression. If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS ]. Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue), has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients ]. Discontinue Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected. If urgent use of an opioid is necessary, use test doses and frequent titration of small doses to treat pain while closely monitoring blood pressure and signs and symptoms of CNS and respiratory depression Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics The concomitant use of opioids with other opioid analgesics, such as butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, may reduce the analgesic effect of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS ]. Evaluate patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets are used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), can increase the plasma concentration of the hydrocodone from Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets and both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitors, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets are achieved [see WARNINGS ]. Evaluate for signs of opioid withdrawal. Inducers of CYP3A4 The concomitant use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets and CYP3A4 inducers, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, can decrease the plasma concentration of hydrocodone [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to hydrocodone [see WARNINGS ]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the hydrocodone plasma concentration will increase [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] , which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines and other CNS depressants, such as benzodiazepines and other sedative hypnotics, anxiolytics, and tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, and other opioids, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue), has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see PRECAUTIONS ; Information for Patients ]. The use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets are not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Because respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the hydrocodone plasma concentration will increase [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ], which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions and may cause serious respiratory depression. Benzodiazepines and Oth er Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines and other CNS depressants, such as benzodiazepines and other sedative hypnotics, anxiolytics, and tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, and other opioids, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If concomitant use is warranted, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see WARNINGS ]. Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, gabapentinoids (gabapentin or pregabalin), other opioids, alcohol. Muscle Relaxants Hydrocodone may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see WARNINGS ]. Examples: cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone Diuretics Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines and other CNS depressants, such as benzodiazepines and other sedative hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, gabapentinoids (gabapentin or pregabalin), and other opioids, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If concomitant use is warranted, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see WARNINGS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ]. Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue), has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see PRECAUTIONS ; Information for Patients ]. Muscle Relaxants Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of muscle relaxants and opioids, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see WARNINGS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ]. Examples: Cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone. Drug Interactions Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 The concomitant use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution and CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), can increase the plasma concentration of hydrocodone from Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution and both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitors, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution is achieved [see WARNINGS ]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, hydrocodone plasma concentration will decrease [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ], resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution. If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution until stable drug effects are achieved. Follow patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Follow patients for signs or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Inducers of CYP3A4 The concomitant use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution and CYP3A4 inducers, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, can decrease the plasma concentration of hydrocodone [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ], resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution [see WARNINGS ]. If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution dosage until stable drug effects are achieved [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ]. Follow for signs of opioid withdrawal. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution dosage reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Benzodiazepines and Other CNS Depressants Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines and other CNS depressants such as benzodiazepines and other sedative hypnotics, anxiolytics, and tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, and other opioids, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Follow patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution if serotonin syndrome is suspected. The use of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics The concomitant use of opioids with other opioid analgesics, such as butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, may reduce the analgesic effect of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Muscle Relaxants Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. If concomitant use is warranted, follow patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS ]. If concomitant use is warranted, monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. If concomitant use is warranted, follow patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Oral Solution are used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Drug Interactions Patients receiving other narcotic analgesics, antihistamines, antipsychotics, antianxiety agents, or other CNS depressants (including alcohol) concomitantlywith hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets may exhibit an additiveCNS depression. When combined therapy is contemplated, the dose of one or bothagents should be reduced. The use of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone. Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets contains hydrocodone and acetaminophen, asubstance with a high potential for abuse similar to other opioids including withdrawal also may be precipitated through the administration of drugs with opioid antagonist activity (e.g., naloxone, nalmefene), mixedagonist/antagonist analgesics (pentazocine, butorphanol, nalbuphine), orpartial agonists (buprenorphine). Physical dependence may not occur to aclinically significant degree until after several days to weeks of continuedopioid usage. Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets can be abusedand is subject to misuse, addiction, and criminal diversion [see WARNINGS ]. Benzodiazepines and other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants such as alcohol, other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, and other opioids, can increases the risk of respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Follow patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation [see WARNINGS ]. Serotonergic Drugs The concomitantuse of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin andnorepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs),triptans, 5-HT 3 receptor antagonists, drugs that effect theserotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), andmonoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatricdisorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue),has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see PRECAUTIONS ; Information for Patients/Caregivers]. Discontinue hydrocodone bitartrateand acetaminophen tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected.

=== METOPROLOL SUCCINATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metoprolol succinate, is a beta-adrenergic blocker indicated for the treatment of: • Hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. ( 1.1 ) • Angina Pectoris. ( 1.2 ) • Heart Failure, to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality and heart failure hospitalizations in patients with heart failure ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Hypertension Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure lowers the risk of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including metoprolol. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than 1 drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. 1.2 Angina Pectoris Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets are indicated in the long-term treatment of angina pectoris, to reduce angina attacks and to improve exercise tolerance. 1.3 Heart Failure Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality and heart-failure hospitalization in patients with heart failure. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets are a beta-adrenergic blocker indicated for the treatment of: • Hypertension, to lower blood pressure. (1.1) • Angina Pectoris (1.2) • Heart Failure, to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality and heart failure hospitalizations in patients with heart failure. (1.3) 1.1 Hypertension Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets, are a beta-adrenergic blocker indicated for the treatment of: • Hypertension, to lower blood pressure. ( 1.2 ) • Heart Failure, to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality and heartfailure hospitalizations in patients with heart failure ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Hypertension Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metoprolol succinate, is a beta-adrenergic blocker indicated for the treatment of: Hypertension, to lower blood pressure. (1.1) Angina Pectoris. (1.2) Heart Failure, to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality and heart failure hospitalizations in patients with heart failure (1.3) 1.1 Hypertension Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program's Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). 1.3 Heart Failure Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets are is indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality and heart-failure hospitalization in patients with heart failure. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets, metoprolol succinate, beta-adrenergic blocker indicated for the treatment of: • Hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions.() • Angina Pectoris. () • Heart Failure, to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality and heart failure hospitalizations in patients with heart failure() 1.1 Hypertension Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. 1.2 Angina Pectoris Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets is indicated in the long-term treatment of angina pectoris, to reduce angina attacks and to improve exercise tolerance. 1.3 Heart Failure Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets is indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality and heart-failure hospitalization in patients with heart failure. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets, are a beta-adrenergic blocker indicated for the treatment of: Hypertension, to lower blood pressure. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets are a beta-adrenergic blocker indicated for the treatment of: Hypertension, to lower blood pressure. ( 1.1 ) Angina Pectoris. ( 1.2 ) Heart Failure, to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality and heart failure hospitalizations in patients with heart failure. ( 1.3) 1.1 Hypertension Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Metoprolol succinate, is a beta-adrenergic blocker indicated for the treatment of: • Hypertension, to lower blood pressure.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer once daily. Titrate at weekly or longer intervals as needed and tolerated. ( 2 ) • Hypertension: Starting dose is 25 mg to 100 mg. ( 2.1 ) • Angina Pectoris: Starting dose is 100 mg. ( 2.2 ) • Heart Failure: Starting dose is 12.5 mg or 25 mg. ( 2.3 ) • Switching from immediate-release metoprolol to metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets: use the same total daily dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets. ( 2 ) 2.1 Hypertension Adults: The usual initial dosage is 25 mg to 100 mg daily in a single dose. Adjust dosage at weekly (or longer) intervals until optimum blood pressure reduction is achieved. In general, the maximum effect of any given dosage level will be apparent after 1 week of therapy. Dosages above 400 mg per day have not been studied. Pediatric Hypertensive Patients ≥ 6 Years of age: The recommended starting dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets are 1 mg/kg once daily, but the maximum initial dose should not exceed 50 mg once daily. Adjust dosage according to blood pressure response. Doses above 2 mg/kg (or in excess of 200 mg) once daily have not been studied in pediatric patients [see Use in SpecificPopulations ( 8.4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets have not been studied in pediatric patients < 6 years of age [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] . 2.2 Angina Pectoris Individualize the dosage of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets. The usual initial dosage is 100 mg daily, given in a single dose. Gradually increase the dosage at weekly intervals until optimum clinical response has been obtained or there is a pronounced slowing of the heart rate. If treatment is to be discontinued, reduce the dosage gradually over a period of 1 to 2 weeks [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )]. 2.3 Heart Failure Dosage must be individualized and closely monitored during up-titration. Prior to initiation of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets, stabilize the dose of other heart failure drug therapy. The recommended starting dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets are 25 mg once daily for two weeks in patients with NYHA Class II heart failure and 12.5 mg once daily in patients with more severe heart failure. Double the dose every two weeks to the highest dosage level tolerated by the patient or up to 200 mg of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets. Initial difficulty with titration should not preclude later attempts to introduce metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets. If patients experience symptomatic bradycardia, reduce the dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets. If transient worsening of heart failure occurs, consider treating with increased doses of diuretics, lowering the dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets, or temporarily discontinuing it. The dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets should not be increased until symptoms of worsening heart failure have been stabilized. 2.4 Administration Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets are scored and can be divided; however, do not crush or chew the whole or half tablet. (2) • Hypertension: Starting dose is 25 to 100 mg. (2.1) • Angina Pectoris: Starting dose is 100 mg. (2.2) • Heart Failure: Starting dose is 12.5 mg or 25 mg. (2.3) • Switching from immediate release metoprolol to metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets: use the same total daily dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets. (2) 2.1 Hypertension Adults: The usual initial dosage is 25 to 100 mg daily in a single dose. Pediatric Hypertensive Patients ≥ 6 Years of age: The recommended starting dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets is 1 mg/kg once daily, but the maximum initial dose should not exceed 50 mg once daily. Doses above 2 mg/kg (or in excess of 200 mg) once daily have not been studied in pediatric patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets have not been studied in pediatric patients < 6 years of age [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. If treatment is to be discontinued, reduce the dosage gradually over a period of 1 to 2 weeks [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ]. The recommended starting dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets is 25 mg once daily for two weeks in patients with NYHA Class II heart failure and 12.5 mg once daily in patients with more severe heart failure. If transient worsening of heart failure occurs, consider treating with increased doses of diuretics, lowering the dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets or temporarily discontinuing it. Doses above 2 mg/kg (or in excess of 200 mg) once daily have not been studied in pediatric patients [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer once daily.Titrate at weekly or longer intervals as needed and tolerated. ( 2 ) • Hypertension: Starting dose is 25 to 100 mg. ( 2.2 ) • Heart Failure: Starting dose is 12.5 or 25 mg. ( 2 ) 2.1 Hypertension Adults: The usual initial dosage is 25 to 100 mg daily in a single dose. metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets has not been studied in pediatric patients < 6 years of age [see use in specific populations (8.4) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer once daily. (2) Hypertension: Starting dose is 25 to 100 mg. (2.1) Angina Pectoris: Starting dose is 100 mg. (2.2) Heart Failure: Starting dose is 12.5 or 25 mg. (2.3) Switching from immediate-release metoprolol to metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets: use the same total daily dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets. Pediatric Hypertensive Patients ≥ 6 Years of age: A pediatric clinical hypertension study in patients 6 to 16 years of age did not meet its primary endpoint (dose response for reduction in SBP); however some other endpoints demonstrated effectiveness [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . If selected for treatment, the recommended starting dose of metoprolol succinate is 1 mg/kg once daily, but the maximum initial dose should not exceed 50 mg once daily. Metoprolol succinate has not been studied in pediatric patients < 6 years of age [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. 2.2 Angina Pectoris Individualize the dosage of metoprolol succinate. If treatment is to be discontinued, reduce the dosage gradually over a period of 1 to 2 weeks [see Warnings and Precautions (5)] . Prior to initiation of metoprolol succinate, stabilize the dose of other heart failure drug therapy. The recommended starting dose of metoprolol succinate is 25 mg once daily for two weeks in patients with NYHA Class II heart failure and 12.5 mg once daily in patients with more severe heart failure. Double the dose every two weeks to the highest dosage level tolerated by the patient or up to 200 mg of metoprolol succinate. Initial difficulty with titration should not preclude later attempts to introduce metoprolol succinate. If patients experience symptomatic bradycardia, reduce the dose of metoprolol succinate. If transient worsening of heart failure occurs, consider treating with increased doses of diuretics, lowering the dose of metoprolol succinate or temporarily discontinuing it. The dose of metoprolol succinate should not be increased until symptoms of worsening heart failure have been stabilized. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets are extended-release tablets intended for once daily administration. For treatment of hypertension and angina, when switching from immediate-release metoprolol to metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets, use the same total daily dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets. Individualize the dosage of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets. Titration may be needed in some patients. Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets are scored and can be divided; however, do not crush or chew the whole or half tablet. • Administer once daily. Titrate at weekly or longer intervals as needed and tolerated.( 2 ) • Hypertension: Starting dose is 25 to 100 mg.() • Angina Pectoris: Starting dose is 100 mg. () • Heart Failure: Starting dose is 12.5 or 25 mg. () • Switching from immediate-release metoprolol to metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets: use the same total daily dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets. ( 2 ) 2.1 Hypertension Adults : The usual initial dosage is 25 to 100 mg daily in a single dose. Pediatric Hypertensive Patients ≥ 6 Years of age :The recommended starting dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets is 1 mg/kg once daily, but the maximum initial dose should not exceed 50 mg once daily. Doses above 2 mg/kg (or in excess of 200 mg) once daily have not been studied in pediatric patients [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and ] . Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets has not been studied in pediatric patients < 6 years of age [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . If treatment is to be discontinued, reduce the dosage gradually over a period of 1 - 2 weeks [ see Warnings and Precautions (5) ] . If selected for treatment, the recommended starting dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets is 1 mg/kg once daily, but the maximum initial dose should not exceed 50 mg once daily. Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets has not been studied in pediatric patients < 6 years of age [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. ( 2 ) Hypertension: Starting dose is 25 to 100 mg. ( 2.1 ) Angina Pectoris: Starting dose is 100 mg. ( 2.2 ) Heart Failure: Starting dose is 12.5 or 25 mg. ( 2.3 ) Switching from immediate-release metoprolol to metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets: use the same total daily dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets. ( 2) 2.1 Hypertension Adults : The usual initial dosage is 25 to 100 mg daily in a single dose. Pediatric Hypertensive Patients ≥ 6 Years of age : The recommended starting dose of metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets is 1 mg/kg once daily, but the maximum initial dose should not exceed 50 mg once daily. If treatment is to be discontinued, reduce the dosage gradually over a period of 1 to 2 weeks [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] . Doses above 2 mg/kg (or in excess of 200 mg) once daily have not been studied in pediatric patients [see Use in SpecificPopulations (8.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets have not been studied in pediatric patients < 6 years of age [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)] . If treatment is to be discontinued, reduce the dosage gradually over a period of 1 to 2 weeks [see Warnings and Precautions (5)].
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets are contraindicated in severe bradycardia, second- or third- degree heart block, cardiogenic shock, decompensated heart failure, sick sinus syndrome (unless a permanent pacemaker is in place), and in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. • Known hypersensitivity to product components. ( 4 ) • Severe bradycardia: Greater than first degree heart block, or sick sinus syndrome without a pacemaker. ( 4 ) • Cardiogenic shock or decompensated heart failure. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets are contraindicated in severe bradycardia, second or third degree heart block, cardiogenic shock, decompensated heart failure, sick sinus syndrome (unless a permanent pacemaker is in place), and in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. (4) • Severe bradycardia. Greater than first degree heart block, or sick sinus syndrome without a pacemaker. (4) • Cardiogenic shock or decompensated heart failure. (4) ( 4 ) • Severe bradycardia : Greater than first degree heart block, or sick sinus syndrome without a pacemaker. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to product components. (4) Severe bradycardia: Greater than first degree heart block, or sick sinus syndrome without a pacemaker. (4) Cardiogenic shock or decompensated heart failure. (4) Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets are contraindicated in severe bradycardia, second or third-degree heart block, cardiogenic shock, decompensated heart failure, sick sinus syndrome (unless a permanent pacemaker is in place), and in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. ) • Severe bradycardia: Greater than first degree heart block, or sick sinus syndrome without a pacemaker.( Error! ) • Cardiogenic shock or decompensated heart failure. ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets are contraindicated in severe bradycardia, second- or third-degree heart block, cardiogenic shock, decompensated heart failure, sick sinus syndrome (unless a permanent pacemaker is in place), and in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. Known hypersensitivity to product components. (4) Cardiogenic shock or decompensated heart failure (4)
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Catecholamine-depleting drugs may have an additive effect when given with beta-blocking agents. ( 7.1 ) • CYP2D6 Inhibitors are likely to increase metoprolol concentration. ( 7.2 ) • Beta-blockers including metoprolol, may exacerbate the rebound hypertension that can follow the withdrawal of clonidine. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Catecholamine Depleting Drugs Catecholamine depleting drugs (e.g., reserpine, monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors) may have an additive effect when given with beta-blocking agents. Observe patients treated with metoprolol succinate extended-release tablets plus a catecholamine depletor for evidence of hypotension or marked bradycardia, which may produce vertigo, syncope, or postural hypotension. 7.2 CYP2D6 Inhibitors Drugs that are strong inhibitors of CYP2D6 such as quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine, and propafenone were shown to double metoprolol concentrations. While there is no information about moderate or weak inhibitors, these too are likely to increase metoprolol concentration. Increases in plasma concentration decrease the cardioselectivity of metoprolol [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Monitor patients closely when the combination cannot be avoided. 7.3 Digitalis, Clonidine, and Calcium Channel Blockers Digitalis glycosides, clonidine, diltiazem, and verapamil slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use with beta-blockers can increase the risk of bradycardia. If clonidine and a beta-blocker, such as metoprolol are co-administered, withdraw the beta-blocker several days before the gradual withdrawal of clonidine because beta-blockers may exacerbate the rebound hypertension that can follow the withdrawal of clonidine. If replacing clonidine by beta-blocker therapy, delay the introduction of beta-blockers for several days after clonidine administration has stopped. (7.1) • CYP2D6 Inhibitors are likely to increase metoprolol concentration. (7.2) • Beta-blockers including metoprolol, may exacerbate the rebound hypertension that can follow the withdrawal of clonidine. (7.3) 7.1 Catecholamine Depleting Drugs Catecholamine depleting drugs (e.g., reserpine, monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors) may have an additive effect when given with beta-blocking agents. Observe patients treated with metoprolol succinate extended-release plus a catecholamine depletor for evidence of hypotension or marked bradycardia, which may produce vertigo, syncope, or postural hypotension. Increases in plasma concentration decrease the cardioselectivity of metoprolol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Monitor patients closely, when the combination cannot be avoided. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Catecholamine Depleting Drugs Catecholamine depleting drugs (eg., reserpine, monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors) may have an additive effect when given with beta-blocking agents. Increases in plasma concentration decrease the cardioselectivity of metoprolol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.3 Digitalis, Clonidine, and Calcium Channel Blockers Digitalis glycosides, clonidine, diltiazem and verapamil slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use with beta blockers can increase the risk of bradycardia. If clonidine and a beta blocker, such as metoprolol are coadministered, withdraw the beta-blocker several days before the gradual withdrawal of clonidine because beta-blockers may exacerbate the rebound hypertension that can follow the withdrawal of clonidine. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Catecholamine-depleting drugs may have an additive effect when given with beta-blocking agents. (7.1) CYP2D6 Inhibitors are likely to increase metoprolol concentration. (7.2) Beta-blockers including metoprolol, may exacerbate the rebound hypertension that can follow the withdrawal of clonidine. Observe patients treated with metoprolol succinate plus a catecholamine depletor for evidence of hypotension or marked bradycardia, which may produce vertigo, syncope, or postural hypotension. If clonidine and a beta blocker, such as metoprolol are co-administered, withdraw the beta-blocker several days before the gradual withdrawal of clonidine because beta-blockers may exacerbate the rebound hypertension that can follow the withdrawal of clonidine. () • CYP2D6 Inhibitors are likely to increase metoprolol concentration. () • Concomitant use of glycosides, clonidine, and diltiazem and verapamil with beta-blockers can increase the risk of bradycardia. () • Beta-blockers including metoprolol, may exacerbate the rebound hypertension that can follow the withdrawal of clonidine. () 7.1 Catecholamine Depleting Drugs Catecholamine depleting drugs (e.g., reserpine, monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors) may have an additive effect when given with beta-blocking agents. Increases in plasma concentration decrease the cardioselectivity of metoprolol [ ] . Increases in plasma concentration decrease the cardioselectivity of metoprolol [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] .

=== OXYMETAZOLINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Nasal decongestant Purpose Purpose Nasal decongestant
Indications: Uses temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to a cold, hay fever, or other upper respiratory allergies sinus congestion and pressure Uses • temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to: • common cold • hay fever • upper respiratory allergies • temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure • shrinks swollen nasal membranes so you can breathe more freely Uses Temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to: common cold hay fever upper respiroty allergies temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure Shrinks swollen membranes so you can breathe more freely Uses temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to: common cold hay fever upper respiratory allergies shrinks swollen nasal membranes so you can breathe more freely temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure Uses ​Uses temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to: common cold hay fever upper respiratory allergies temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure shrinks swollen nasal membranes so you can breathe more freely Uses Tempoarily relieves nasal congestion due to: common cold hay fever upper respirtory allergies temporaily relieves sinus congestion and pressure Shrinks swollen membranes so you can breathe more freely
Dosage: Directions Remove protective cap. Before using for the first time, prime the pump by firmly depressing its rim several times. Hold container with thumb at base and nozzle between first and second fingers. Without tilting your head, insert nozzle into nostril. Fully depress rim with a firm, even stroke and inhale deeply. adults & children 6 yrs. & older (with adult supervision): 2 or 3 sprays in each nostril, not more often than every 10 to 12 hours. Do not exceed 2 doses in 24 hours. children 2 to under 6 yrs.: ask a doctor children under 2 yrs.: do not use Directions • adults and children 6 to under 12 years of age (with adult supervision): 2 or 3 sprays in each nostril not more often than every 10 to 12 hours. Do not exceed 2 doses in any 24-hour period. • children under 6 years of age: ask a doctor To Use: Shake well before use. Hold white tabs, SQUEEZE grooved area of cap FIRMLY and turn counter clockwise. Before using the first time, prime metered pump by depressing pump firmly several times. To spray, hold bottle with thumb at base and nozzle between first and second fingers. Without tilting head, insert nozzle into nostril. Fully depress rim with a firm, even stroke and sniff deeply. Wipe nozzle clean after use. Secure cap after use. • children under 6 years of age: ask a doctor To Use: Push firmly down on cap and turn counter clockwise. To spray, squeeze bottle quickly and firmly. Do not tilt head backward while spraying. Direction Before using for the first time, remove the protective cap form the tip and prime the pump by depressing pump firmly several times. Without tilting head, insert nozzle into nostrile. Fully depress rim with a firm and even stroke, and sniff deeply. Adults and children 6 to under 12 years of age (with adult supervision):2 or 3 sprays in each nostril not more than every 10 to 12 hours. Children under 6 years of age consult a doctor. Directions adults and children 6 to under 12 years of age (with adult supervision): 2 or 3 sprays in each nostril not more often than every 10 to 12 hours. children under 6 years of age: ask a doctor. Shake well before use. Before using the first time, remove the protective cap from the tip and prime metered pump by depressing pump firmly several times. Directions ​Directions adults and children 6 to under 12 years of age (with adult supervision): 2 or 3 sprays in each nostril not more often than every 10 to 12 hours. children under 6 years of age: consult a doctor Shake well before use. To open, rotate cap to align the marks. Squeeze cap on both sides in a counter-clockwise turn and pull off to remove. To spray, hold bottle between thumb at base and nozzle between first and second fingers. without tilting the head, insert nozzle into nostril. Wipe nozzle clean after use and snap cap back onto the bottle. Directions Adults and children 6 to under 12 years of age (with adult supervision):2 or 3 sprays in each nostril not more than every 10 to 12 hours. Before using for the first time, remove the protective cap form the tip and prime the pump by depressing pump firmly several times.
Warnings: Warnings For external use only; avoid contact with eyes. Do not use by mouth in nostrils on wounds or damaged skin with tight bandages Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease high blood pressure thyroid disease diabetes trouble urinating due to enlarged prostate gland When using this product, do not do not exceed recommended dosage do not use this product for more than 3 days. Use only as directed. Frequent or prolonged use may cause nasal congestion to recur or worsen temporary discomfort such as burning, stinging, sneezing, or increased nasal discharge may occur use of this container by more than one person may spread infection Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms persist. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland When using this product • do not use more than directed • do not use for more than 3 days. Frequent or prolonged use may cause nasal congestion to recur or worsen. • temporary discomfort such as burning, stinging, sneezing or an increase in nasal discharge may occur • use of this container by more than one person may spread infection Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms persist If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Warning Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • diabetes • thyroid disease • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland When using this product • do not use more than directed • do not use for more than 3 days. Warnings Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease high blood pressure thyroid disease diabetes trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland When using this product do not use more than directed do not use for more than 3 days. temporary discomfort such as burning, stinging, sneezing or an increase in nasal discharge may occur use of this container by more than one person may spread infection Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms persist If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a health professional before use. Warnings Warnings Ask a doctor before use Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease high blood pressure thyroid disease diabetes trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland When using this product ​When using this product do not use more than directed do not use for more than 3 days. temporary discomfort such as burning, stinging, sneezing or an increase in nasal discharge may occur. use of this container by more than one person may spread infection. Stop use Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms persist. ​If pregnant or breast-feeding If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children.

=== HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure lowers the risk of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than 1 drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. These fixed-dose combinations are not indicated for initial therapy (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). In using lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, consideration should be given to the fact that an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has caused agranulocytosis, particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen vascular disease, and that available data are insufficient to show that lisinopril does not have a similar risk. (See WARNINGS .) In considering use of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, it should be noted that Black patients receiving ACE inhibitors have been reported to have a higher incidence of angioedema compared to non-Black. (See WARNINGS, Head and Neck Angioedema .) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program's Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (eg., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). In using lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP, consideration should be given to the fact that an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has caused agranulocytosis, particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen vascular disease, and that available data are insufficient to show that lisinopril does not have a similar risk. (See WARNINGS ). In considering the use of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP, it should be noted that ACE inhibitors have been associated with a higher rate of angioedema in black than in nonblack patients. (See WARNINGS , Lisinopril ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide is not indicated for the initial therapy of hypertension [see Dosage and Administration (2) ] . Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including the class to which this drug principally belongs. There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide may be used alone, or in combination with other antihypertensive drugs. Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide is a combination of olmesartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker and hydrochlorothiazide, a thiazide diuretic indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. ( 1 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated as adjunctive therapy in edema associated with congestive heart failure, hepatic cirrhosis, and corticosteroid and estrogen therapy. Hydrochlorothiazide has also been found useful in edema due to various forms of renal dysfunction such as nephrotic syndrome, acute glomerulonephritis, and chronic renal failure. Hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated in the management of hypertension either as the sole therapeutic agent or to enhance the effectiveness of other antihypertensive drugs in the more severe forms of hypertension. Use in Pregnancy Routine use of diuretics during normal pregnancy is inappropriate and exposes mother and fetus to unnecessary hazard. Diuretics do not prevent development of toxemia of pregnancy and there is no satisfactory evidence that they are useful in the treatment of toxemia. Edema during pregnancy may arise from pathologic causes or from the physiologic and mechanical consequences of pregnancy. Thiazides are indicated in pregnancy when edema is due to pathologic causes, just as they are in the absence of pregnancy (see PRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy ). Dependent edema in pregnancy, resulting from restriction of venous return by the gravid uterus, is properly treated through elevation of the lower extremities and use of support stockings. Use of diuretics to lower intravascular volume in this instance is illogical and unnecessary. During normal pregnancy there is hypervolemia which is not harmful to the fetus or the mother in the absence of cardiovascular disease. However, it may be associated with edema, rarely generalized edema. If such edema causes discomfort, increased recumbency will often provide relief. Rarely this edema may cause extreme discomfort which is not relieved by rest. In these instances, a short course of diuretic therapy may provide relief and be appropriate. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP are indicated as adjunctive therapy in edema associated with congestive heart failure, hepatic cirrhosis, and corticosteroid and estrogen therapy. Hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP have also been found useful in edema due to various forms of renal dysfunction such as nephrotic syndrome, acute glomerulonephritis, and chronic renal failure. Hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP are indicated in the management of hypertension either as the sole therapeutic agent or to enhance the effectiveness of other antihypertensive drugs in the more severe forms of hypertension. Thiazides are indicated in pregnancy when edema is due to pathologic causes, just as they are in the absence of pregnancy (see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy ). Dependent edema in pregnan­cy, resulting from restriction of venous return by the gravid uterus, is properly treated through elevation of the lower extremities and use of support stockings. Use of diuretics to lower intravascular volume in this instance is illogical and unneces­sary. If such edema causes discomfort, in­creased recumbency will often provide relief. INDICATIONS AND USAGE: This fixed combination drug is not indicated for the initial therapy of edema or hypertension except in individuals in whom the development of hypokalemia cannot be risked. Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide is indicated for the treatment of hypertension or edema in patients who develop hypokalemia on hydrochlorothiazide alone. Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide is also indicated for those patients who require a thiazide diuretic and in whom the development of hypokalemia cannot be risked (e.g., patients on concomitant digitalis preparations, or with a history of cardiac arrhythmias, etc.). Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive drugs, such as beta-blockers. Since triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide may enhance the actions of these drugs, dosage adjustments may be necessary. Usage in Pregnancy: The routine use of diuretics in an otherwise healthy woman is inappropriate and exposes mother and fetus to unnecessary hazard. Diuretics do not prevent development of toxemia of pregnancy, and there is no satisfactory evidence that they are useful in the treatment of developed toxemia. Edema during pregnancy may arise from pathological causes or from the physiologic and mechanical consequences of pregnancy. Thiazides are indicated in pregnancy when edema is due to pathologic causes, just as they are in the absence of pregnancy. Dependent edema in pregnancy, resulting from restriction of venous return by the expanded uterus, is properly treated through elevation of the lower extremities and use of support hose; use of diuretics to lower intravascular volume in this case is illogical and unnecessary. There is hypervolemia during normal pregnancy which is harmful to neither the fetus nor the mother (in the absence of cardiovascular disease), but which is associated with edema, including generalized edema, in the majority of pregnant women. If this edema produces discomfort, increased recumbency will often provide relief. In rare instances, this edema may cause extreme discomfort which is not relieved by rest. In these cases, a short course of diuretics may provide relief and may be appropriate. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydrochlorothiazide capsules, USP are indicated in the management of hypertension either as the sole therapeutic agent, or in combination with other antihypertensives. Unlike potassium sparing combination diuretic products, hydrochlorothiazide capsules, USP may be used in those patients in whom the development of hyperkalemia cannot be risked, including patients taking ACE inhibitors. Diuretics are indicated in pregnancy when edema is due to pathologic causes, just as they are in the absence of pregnancy. Dependent edema in pregnancy resulting from restriction of venous return by the expanded uterus is properly treated through elevation of the lower extremities and use of support hose; use of diuretics to lower intravascular volume in this case is illogical and unnecessary. There is hypervolemia during normal pregnancy which is harmful to neither the fetus nor the mother (in the absence of cardiovascular disease), but which is associated with edema, including generalized edema in the majority of pregnant women. In rare instances this edema may cause extreme discomfort which is not relieved by rest. In these cases a short course of diuretics may provide relief and may be appropriate. INDICATIONS AND USAGE: Hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated as adjunctive therapy in edema associated with congestive heart failure, hepatic cirrhosis, and corticosteroid and estrogen therapy. Hydrochlorothiazide tablets have also been found useful in edema due to various forms of renal dysfunction such as nephrotic syndrome, acute glomerulonephritis, and chronic renal failure. Thiazides are indicated in pregnancy when edema is due to pathologic causes, just as they are in the absence of pregnancy (see PRECAUTIONS: Pregnancy ). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. In using lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP consideration should be given to the fact that an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has caused agranulocytosis, particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen vascular disease, and that available data are insufficient to show that lisinopril does not have a similar risk (See WARNINGS ). In considering the use of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP it should be noted that ACE inhibitors have been associated with a higher rate of angioedema in black than in nonblack patients (see WARNINGS, Lisinopril )
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Lisinopril monotherapy is an effective treatment of hypertension in once-daily doses of 10 mg to 80 mg, while hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy is effective in doses of 12.5 mg to 50 mg per day. In clinical trials of lisinopril/hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy using lisinopril doses of 10 mg to 80 mg and hydrochlorothiazide doses of 6.25 mg to 50 mg, the antihypertensive response rates generally increased with increasing dose of either component. The side effects (see WARNINGS ) of lisinopril are generally rare and apparently independent of dose; those of hydrochlorothiazide are a mixture of dose-dependent phenomena (primarily hypokalemia) and dose-independent phenomena (e.g., pancreatitis), the former much more common than the latter. Therapy with any combination of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide will be associated with both sets of dose-independent side effects, but addition of lisinopril in clinical trials blunted the hypokalemia normally seen with diuretics. To minimize dose-independent side effects, it is usually appropriate to begin combination therapy only after a patient has failed to achieve the desired effect with monotherapy. Dose Titration Guided by Clinical Effect A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with either lisinopril or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy may be switched to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 10-12.5 or lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 20-12.5. Further increases of either or both components could depend on clinical response. The hydrochlorothiazide dose should generally not be increased until 2-3 weeks have elapsed. Patients whose blood pressures are adequately controlled with 25 mg of daily hydrochlorothiazide, but who experience significant potassium loss with this regimen, may achieve similar or greater blood pressure control with less potassium loss if they are switched to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 10-12.5. Dosage higher than lisinopril 80 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg should not be used. Replacement Therapy: The combination may be substituted for the titrated individual components. Use in Renal Impairment: The usual regimens of therapy with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets need not be adjusted as long as the patient's creatinine clearance is greater than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 (serum creatinine approximately less than or equal to 3 mg/dL or 265 μmol/L). In patients with more severe renal impairment, loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides, so lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not recommended (see WARNINGS, Anaphylactoid reactions during membrane exposure ). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Lisinopril monotherapy is an effective treatment of hypertension in once-daily doses of 10 mg to 80 mg, while hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy is effective in doses of 12.5 mg per day to 50 mg per day. Therapy with any combination of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide may be associated with either or both dose-independent or dose-dependent side effects, but addition of lisinopril in clinical trials blunted the hypokalemia normally seen with diuretics. To minimize dose-dependent side effects, it is usually appropriate to begin combination therapy only after a patient has failed to achieve the desired effect with monotherapy. Dose Titration Guided by Clinical Effect A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with either lisinopril or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy may be switched to lisinopril /HCTZ 10 /12.5 or lisinopril/HCTZ 20 /12.5, depending on current monotherapy dose. Further increases of either or both components should depend on clinical response with blood pressure measured at the interdosing interval to ensure that there is an adequate antihypertensive effect at that time. The hydrochlorothiazide dose should generally not be increased until 2 to 3 weeks have elapsed. After addition of the diuretic it may be possible to reduce the dose of lisinopril. Patients whose blood pressures are adequately controlled with 25 mg of daily hydrochlorothiazide, but who experience significant potassium loss with this regimen may achieve similar or greater blood-pressure control without electrolyte disturbance if they are switched to Lisinopril/HCTZ 10 /12.5. In patients who are currently being treated with a diuretic, symptomatic hypotension occasionally may occur following the initial dose of lisinopril. The diuretic should, if possible, be discontinued for two to three days before beginning therapy with lisinopril to reduce the likelihood of hypotension (See WARNINGS ). If the patient's blood pressure is not controlled with lisinopril alone, diuretic therapy may be resumed. If the diuretic cannot be discontinued, an initial dose of 5 mg of lisinopril should be used under medical supervision for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Concomitant administration of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide with potassium supplements, potassium salt substitutes or potassium-sparing diuretics may lead to increases of serum potassium (See PRECAUTIONS ). Replacement Therapy The combination may be substituted for the titrated individual components. Use in Renal Impairment Regimens of therapy with lisinopril/HCTZ need not take account of renal function as long as the patient's creatinine clearance is >30 mL/min/1.7m 2 (serum creatinine roughly ≤3 mg/dL or 265 µmol/L). In patients with more severe renal impairment, loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides, so lisinopril/HCTZ is not recommended (see WARNINGS, Anaphylactoid Reactions During Membrane Exposure) . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended starting dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide is 40/12.5 mg once daily in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with olmesartan monotherapy. Dose can be titrated up to 40 /25 mg if necessary. The recommended starting dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide is 20/12.5 mg once daily in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with HCT monotherapy or who experience dose-limiting adverse reactions with hydrochlorothiazide. Patients titrated to the individual components (olmesartan and hydrochlorothiazide) may instead receive the corresponding dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide. Recommended starting dose in patients not adequately controlled with olmesartan monotherapy, 40/12.5 mg ( 2 ) Recommended starting dose in patients not adequately controlled with hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy, 20/12.5 mg ( 2 ) Adjust dose after 2 to 4 weeks, as needed, to a maximum of 40 mg / 25 mg olmesartan / hydrochlorothiazide ( 2 ) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Therapy should be individualized according to patient response. Use the smallest dosage necessary to achieve the required response. Adults For Edema - The usual adult dosage is 25 to 100 mg daily as a single or divided dose. Many patients with edema respond to intermittent therapy, i.e., administration on alternate days or on three to five days each week. With an intermittent schedule, excessive response and the resulting undesirable electrolyte imbalance are less likely to occur. For Control Of Hypertension - The usual initial dose in adults is 25 mg daily given as a single dose. The dose may be increased to 50 mg daily, given as a single or two divided doses. Doses above 50 mg are often associated with marked reductions in serum potassium (see also PRECAUTIONS ). Patients usually do not require doses in excess of 50 mg of hydrochlorothiazide daily when used concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. Infants and Children For Diuresis and For Control of Hypertension - The usual pediatric dosage is 0.5 to 1 mg per pound (1 to 2 mg/kg) per day in single or two divided doses, not to exceed 37.5 mg per day in infants up to 2 years of age or 100 mg per day in children 2 to 12 years of age. In infants less than 6 months of age, doses up to 1.5 mg per pound (3 mg/kg) per day in two divided doses may be required (see PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ). Adults For Edema The usual adult dosage is 25 mg to 100 mg daily as a single or divided dose. Many patients with edema respond to intermittent therapy, i.e., administration on alternate days or on 3 to 5 days each week. For Control of Hypertension The usual initial dose in adults is 25 mg daily given as a single dose. Infants and Children For Diuresis and for Control of Hypertension The usual pediatric dosage is 0.5 mg to 1 mg per pound (1 to 2 mg/kg) per day in single or two divided doses, not to exceed 37.5 mg per day in infants up to 2 years of age or 100 mg per day in children 2 to 12 years of age. In infants less than 6 months of age, doses up to 1.5 mg per pound (3 mg/kg) per day in two divided doses may be required. (See PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use .) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: The usual dose of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 37.5mg/25mg is one or two tablets daily, given as a single dose, with appropriate monitoring of serum potassium (see WARNINGS ). The usual dose of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 75mg/ 50 mg is one tablet daily, with appropriate monitoring of serum potassium (see WARNINGS ). There is no experience with the use of more than one triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 75mg/50mg daily or more than two triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 37.5mg/25mg daily. Clinical experience with the administration of two triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 37.5mg/25mg daily in divided doses (rather than as a single dose) suggests an increased risk of electrolyte imbalance and renal dysfunction. Patients receiving 50 mg of hydrochlorothiazide who become hypokalemic may be transferred to triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 75mg/50mg directly. Patients receiving 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide who become hypokalemic may be transferred to triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 37.5mg/25mg directly. In patients requiring hydrochlorothiazide therapy and in whom hypokalemia cannot be risked therapy may be initiated with triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 37.5mg/25mg. If an optimal blood pressure response is not obtained with triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 37.5mg/25mg, the dose should be increased to two triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 37.5mg/25mg daily as a single dose, or one triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 75mg/25mg daily. If blood pressure still is not controlled, another antihypertensive agent may be added (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Clinical studies have shown that patients taking less bioavailable formulations of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide in daily doses of 25 mg to 50 mg hydrochlorothiazide and 50 mg to 100 mg triamterene may be safely changed to one triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 37.5mg/25mg daily. All patients changed from less bioavailable formulations to triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 75mg/50mg should be monitored clinically and for serum potassium after the transfer. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For Control of Hypertension: The adult initial dose of hydrochlorothiazide capsules, USP is one capsule given once daily whether given alone or in combination with other antihypertensives. Total daily doses greater than 50 mg are not recommended. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Therapy should be individualized according to patient response. Adults: For Edema: The usual adult dosage is 25 mg to 100 mg daily as a single or divided dose. For Control of Hypertension: The usual initial dose in adults is 25 mg daily given as a single dose. Infants and Children: For Diuresis and For Control of Hypertension: The usual pediatric dosage is 0.5 to 1 mg per pound (1 to 2 mg/kg) per day in single or two divided doses, not to exceed 37.5 mg per day in infants up to 2 years of age or 100 mg per day in children 2 to 12 years of age. (See PRECAUTIONS: Pediatric Use ). Dose Titration Guided by Clinical Effect: A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with either lisinopril or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy may be switched to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 10 mg/12.5 mg or lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 20 mg/12.5 mg, depending on current monotherapy dose. Patients whose blood pressures are adequately controlled with 25 mg of daily hydrochlorothiazide, but who experience significant potassium loss with this regimen may achieve similar or greater blood-pressure control without electrolyte disturbance if they are switched to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 10 mg/12.5 mg. If the patient’s blood pressure is not controlled with lisinopril alone, diuretic therapy may be resumed. Concomitant administration of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets with potassium supplements, potassium salt substitutes or potassium-sparing diuretics may lead to increases of serum potassium (See PRECAUTIONS ). Use in Renal Impairment: Regimens of therapy with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide need not take account of renal function as long as the patient’s creatinine clearance is >30 mL/min/1.7m2 (serum creatinine roughly ≤3 mg/dL or 265 μmol/L). In patients with more severe renal impairment, loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides, so lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide is not recommended (see WARNINGS, Anaphylactoid Reactions During Membrane Exposure ).
Warnings: WARNINGS General Lisinopril Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions: Presumably because angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides, including endogenous bradykinin, patients receiving ACE inhibitors (including lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets) may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions, some of them serious. Head and Neck Angioedema: Angioedema of the face, extremities, lips, tongue, glottis and/or larynx has been reported rarely in patients treated with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, including lisinopril. This may occur at any time during treatment. ACE inhibitors have been associated with a higher rate of angioedema in Black than in non-Black patients. In such cases lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be promptly discontinued and appropriate therapy and monitoring should be provided until complete and sustained resolution of signs and symptoms has occurred. Even in those instances where swelling of only the tongue is involved, without respiratory distress, patients may require prolonged observation since treatment with antihistamines and corticosteroids may not be sufficient. Very rarely, fatalities have been reported due to angioedema associated with laryngeal edema or tongue edema. Patients with involvement of the tongue, glottis or larynx are likely to experience airway obstruction, especially those with a history of airway surgery. Where there is involvement of the tongue, glottis or larynx, likely to cause airway obstruction, subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1:1000 (0.3 mL to 0.5 mL) and/or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway should be promptly provided (See ADVERSE REACTIONS . ) Patients with a history of angioedema unrelated to ACE-inhibitor therapy may be at increased risk of angioedema while receiving an ACE inhibitor (see also INDICATIONS AND USAGE and CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitor and mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor (e.g., temsirolimus, sirolimus, everolimus) therapy or a neprilysin inhibitor may be at increased risk for angioedema (see PRECAUTIONS ). Intestinal Angioedema : Intestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors. These patients presented with abdominal pain (with or without nausea or vomiting); in some cases there was no prior history of facial angioedema and C-1 esterase levels were normal. The angioedema was diagnosed by procedures including abdominal CT scan or ultrasound, or at surgery, and symptoms resolved after stopping the ACE inhibitor. Intestinal angioedema should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients on ACE inhibitors presenting with abdominal pain. Anaphylactoid reactions during desensitization: Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions. In the same patients, these reactions were avoided when ACE inhibitors were temporarily withheld, but they reappeared upon inadvertent rechallenge. Anaphylactoid reactions during membrane exposure: Sudden and potentially life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in some patients dialyzed with high-flux membranes and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor. In such patients, dialysis must be stopped immediately, and aggressive therapy for anaphylactoid reactions must be initiated. Symptoms have not been relieved by antihistamines in these situations. In these patients, consideration should be given to using a different type of dialysis membrane or a different class of antihypertensive agent. Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in patients undergoing low-density lipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate absorption. Hypotension and Related Effects Excessive hypotension was rarely seen in uncomplicated hypertensive patients but is a possible consequence of lisinopril use in salt/volume-depleted persons such as those treated vigorously with diuretics or patients on dialysis. (See PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions and ADVERSE REACTIONS .) Syncope has been reported in 0.8 percent of patients receiving lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. In patients with hypertension receiving lisinopril alone, the incidence of syncope was 0.1 percent. The overall incidence of syncope may be reduced by proper titration of the individual components. (See PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions , ADVERSE REACTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) In patients with severe congestive heart failure, with or without associated renal insufficiency, excessive hypotension has been observed and may be associated with oliguria and/or progressive azotemia, and rarely with acute renal failure and/or death. Because of the potential fall in blood pressure in these patients, therapy should be started under very close medical supervision. Such patients should be followed closely for the first two weeks of treatment and whenever the dose of lisinopril and/or diuretic is increased. Similar considerations apply to patients with ischemic heart or cerebrovascular disease in whom an excessive fall in blood pressure could result in a myocardial infarction or cerebrovascular accident. If hypotension occurs, the patient should be placed in supine position and, if necessary, receive an intravenous infusion of normal saline. A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further doses which usually can be given without difficulty once the blood pressure has increased after volume expansion. Neutropenia/Agranulocytosis Another angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has been shown to cause agranulocytosis and bone marrow depression, rarely in uncomplicated patients but more frequently in patients with renal impairment, especially if they also have a collagen vascular disease. Available data from clinical trials of lisinopril are insufficient to show that lisinopril does not cause agranulocytosis at similar rates. Marketing experience has revealed rare cases of neutropenia and bone marrow depression in which a causal relationship to lisinopril cannot be excluded. Periodic monitoring of white blood cell counts in patients with collagen vascular disease and renal disease should be considered. Hepatic Failure Rarely, ACE inhibitors have been associated with a syndrome that starts with cholestatic jaundice or hepatitis and progresses to fulminant hepatic necrosis, and (sometimes) death. The mechanism of this syndrome is not understood. Patients receiving ACE inhibitors who develop jaundice or marked elevations of hepatic enzymes should discontinue the ACE inhibitor and receive appropriate medical follow-up. Hydrochlorothiazide Thiazides should be used with caution in severe renal disease. In patients with renal disease, thiazides may precipitate azotemia. Cumulative effects of the drug may develop in patients with impaired renal function. Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease, since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma. Sensitivity reactions may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma. The possibility of exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported. Lithium generally should not be given with thiazides (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions , Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide ). Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma : Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy. Fetal Toxicity Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible. These adverse outcomes are usually associated with the use of these drugs in the second and third trimester of pregnancy. Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin-angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents. Appropriate management of maternal hypertension during pregnancy is important to optimize outcomes for both mother and fetus. In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative therapy to drugs affecting the renin-angiotensin system for a particular patient, apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus. Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra-amniotic environment. If oligohydramnios is observed, discontinue lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, unless it is considered lifesaving for the mother. Fetal testing may be appropriate, based on the week of pregnancy. Patients and physicians should be aware, however, that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury. Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets for hypotension, oliguria, and hyperkalemia ( See PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use ). Lisinopril-Hydrochlorothiazide Teratogenicity studies were conducted in mice and rats with up to 90 mg/kg/day of lisinopril in combination with 10 mg/kg/day of hydrochlorothiazide. This dose of lisinopril is 5 times (in mice) and 10 times (in rats) the maximum recommended human daily dose (MRHDD) when compared on a body surface area basis (mg/m 2 ); the dose of hydrochlorothiazide is 0.9 times (in mice) and 1.8 times (in rats) the MRHDD. Maternal or fetotoxic effects were not seen in mice with the combination. In rats decreased maternal weight gain and decreased fetal weight occurred down to 3/10 mg/kg/day (the lowest dose tested). Associated with the decreased fetal weight was a delay in fetal ossification. The decreased fetal weight and delay in fetal ossification were not seen in saline-supplemented animals given 90/10 mg/kg/day. No teratogenic effects of lisinopril were seen in studies of pregnant mice, rats, and rabbits. On a body surface area basis, the doses used were up 55 times, 33 times, and 0.15 times, respectively, the MRHDD. Hydrochlorothiazide Studies in which hydrochlorothiazide was orally administered to pregnant mice and rats during their respective periods of major organogenesis at doses up to 3000 and 1000 mg/kg/day, respectively, provided no evidence of harm to the fetus. These doses are more than 150 times the MRHDD on a body surface area basis. Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood. There is a risk of fetal or neonatal jaundice, thrombocytopenia and possibly other adverse reactions that have occurred in adults. WARNINGS Lisinopril Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions: Presumably because angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides, including endogenous bradykinin, patients receiving ACE inhibitors (including lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide) may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions, some of them serious. Head and Neck Angioedema: Angioedema of the face, extremities, lips, tongue, glottis and/or larynx has been reported in patients treated with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, including lisinopril. ACE inhibitors have been associated with a higher rate of angioedema in black than in nonblack patients. Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide should be promptly discontinued and the appropriate therapy and monitoring should be provided until complete and sustained resolution of signs and symptoms has occurred. Where there is involvement of the tongue, glottis or larynx, likely to cause airway obstruction, subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1:1000 (0.3 mL to 0.5 mL) and/or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway, should be promptly provided (See ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Intestinal Angioedema: Intestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors. Patients with a history of angioedema unrelated to ACE-inhibitor therapy may be at increased risk of angioedema while receiving an ACE inhibitor (see also INDICATIONS AND USAGE and CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Anaphylactoid reactions during membrane exposure: Thiazide-containing combination products are not recommended in patients with severe renal dysfunction. Sudden and potentially life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in some patients dialyzed with high-flux membranes (eg., AN69 ® *) and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor. Hypotension and Related Effects: Excessive hypotension was rarely seen in uncomplicated hypertensive patients but is a possible consequence of lisinopril use in salt/volume-depleted persons, such as those treated vigorously with diuretics or patients on dialysis . (See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions and ADVERSE REACTIONS .) Syncope has been reported in 0.8 percent of patients receiving lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide. If hypotension occurs, the patient should be placed in the supine position and, if necessary, receive an intravenous infusion of normal saline. Leukopenia/Neutropenia/Agranulocytosis: Another angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has been shown to cause agranulocytosis and bone marrow depression, rarely in uncomplicated patients but more frequently in patients with renal impairment, especially if they also have a collagen vascular disease. Marketing experience has revealed rare cases of leukopenia/neutropenia and bone marrow depression in which a causal relationship to lisinopril cannot be excluded. Hepatic Failure: Rarely, ACE inhibitors have been associated with a syndrome that starts with cholestatic jaundice or hepatitis and progresses to fulminant hepatic necrosis and (sometimes) death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide as soon as possible. These adverse outcomes are usually associated with use of these drugs in the second and third trimester of pregnancy. In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the renin-angiotensin system for a particular patient, apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus. If oligohydramnios is observed, discontinue lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide, unless it is considered lifesaving for the mother. Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide for hypotension, oliguria, and hyperkalemia (see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use) . No teratogenic effects of lisinopril were seen in studies of pregnant rats, mice, and rabbits. On a mg/kg basis, the doses used were up to 625 times (in mice), 188 times (in rats), and 0.6 times (in rabbits) the maximum recommended human dose. Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Teratogenicity studies were conducted in mice and rats with up to 90 mg/kg/day of lisinopril (56 times the maximum recommended human dose) in combination with 10 mg/kg/day of hydrochlorothiazide (2.5 times the maximum recommended human dose. When used in pregnancy, during the second and third trimesters, ACE inhibitors can cause injury and even death to the developing fetus. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide as soon as possible (See Lisinopril, FETAL TOXICITY ). Hydrochlorothiazide Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Teratogenic Effects Reproduction studies in the rabbit, the mouse and the rat at doses up to 100 mg/kg/day (50 times the human dose) showed no evidence of external abnormalities of the fetus due to hydrochlorothiazide. Hydrochlorothiazide given in a two-litter study in rats at doses of 4 mg/kg/day to 5.6 mg/kg/day (approximately 1 to 2 times the usual daily human dose) did not impair fertility or produce birth abnormalities in the offspring. Nonteratogenic Effects These may include fetal or neonatal jaundice, thrombocytopenia, and possibly other adverse reactions have occurred in the adult. Lithium generally should not be given with thiazides (See PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions, Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide ). Fetal Toxicity Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. WARNINGS Use with caution in severe renal disease. Thiazides may add to or potentiate the action of other antihypertensive drugs. Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). WARNINGS: Hyperkalemia: Abnormal elevation of serum potassium levels (greater than or equal to 5.5 mEq/liter) can occur with all potassium-conserving diuretic combinations, including triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide. Hyperkalemia is more likely to occur in patients with renal impairment, diabetes (even without evidence of renal impairment), or elderly or severely ill patients. Since uncorrected hyperkalemia may be fatal, serum potassium levels must be monitored at frequent intervals especially in patients first receiving triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide, when dosages are changed or with any illness that may influence renal function. If hyperkalemia is suspected, (warning signs include paresthesias, muscular weakness, fatigue, flaccid paralysis of the extremities, bradycardia and shock) an electrocardiogram (ECG) should be obtained. However, it is important to monitor serum potassium levels because mild hyperkalemia may not be associated with ECG changes. If hyperkalemia is present, triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide should be discontinued immediately and a thiazide alone should be substituted. If the serum potassium exceeds 6.5 mEq/liter, more vigorous therapy is required. The clinical situation dictates the procedures to be employed. These include the intravenous administration of calcium chloride solution, sodium bicarbonate solution and/or the oral or parenteral administration of glucose with a rapid-acting insulin preparation. Cationic exchange resins such as sodium polystyrene sulfonate may be orally or rectally administered. Persistent hyperkalemia may require dialysis. The development of hyperkalemia associated with potassium-sparing diuretics is accentuated in the presence of renal impairment (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Patients with mild renal functional impairment should not receive this drug without frequent and continuing monitoring of serum electrolytes. Cumulative drug effects may be observed in patients with impaired renal function. The renal clearances of hydrochlorothiazide and the pharmacologically active metabolite of triamterene, the sulfate ester of hydroxytriamterene, have been shown to be reduced and the plasma levels increased following triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide administration to elderly patients and patients with impaired renal function. Hyperkalemia has been reported in diabetic patients with the use of potassium-conserving agents even in the absence of apparent renal impairment. Accordingly, triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide should be avoided in diabetic patients. If it is employed, serum electrolytes must be frequently monitored. Because of the potassium-sparing properties of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide should be used cautiously, if at all, with these agents (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Metabolic or Respiratory Acidosis: Potassium-conserving therapy should also be avoided in severely ill patients in whom respiratory or metabolic acidosis may occur. Acidosis may be associated with rapid elevations in serum potassium levels. If triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide is employed, frequent evaluations of acid/base balance and serum electrolytes are necessary. Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma: Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. WARNINGS Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma: Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Diabetes and Hypoglycemia: Latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest and diabetic patients given thiazides may require adjustment of their insulin dose. Renal Disease: Cumulative effects of the thiazides may develop in patients with impaired renal function. In such patients, thiazides may precipitate azotemia. WARNINGS: Use with caution in severe renal disease. Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Where there is involvement of the tongue, glottis or larynx, likely to cause airway obstruction, subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1:1000 (0.3 mL to 0.5 mL) and/or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway should be promptly provided (See ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Patients with a history of angioedema unrelated to ACE inhibitor therapy may be at increased risk of angioedema while receiving an ACE inhibitor (see also INDICATIONS AND USAGE and CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Anaphylactoid Reactions During Desensitization : Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions. Anaphylactoid Reactions during Membrane Exposure : Thiazide-containing combination products are not recommended in patients with severe renal dysfunction. Sudden and potentially life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in some patients dialyzed with high-flux membranes (e.g., AN69®*) and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor. Hypotension and Related Effects: Excessive hypotension was rarely seen in uncomplicated hypertensive patients but is a possible consequence of lisinopril use in salt/volume-depleted persons such as those treated vigorously with diuretics or patients on dialysis (See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Syncope has been reported in 0.8 percent of patients receiving lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of syncope may be reduced by proper titration of the individual components (See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , ADVERSE REACTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). In patients with severe congestive heart failure, with or without associated renal insufficiency, excessive hypotension has been observed and may be associated with oliguria and/or progressive azotemia, and rarely with acute renal failure and/or death. Leukopenia/Neutropenia/Agranulocytosis: Another angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has been shown to cause agranulocytosis and bone marrow depression, rarely in uncomplicated patients but more frequently in patients with renal impairment, especially if they also have a collagen vascular disease.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product and in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous treatment with an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor and in patients with hereditary or idiopathic angioedema. Because of the hydrochlorothiazide component, this product is contraindicated in patients with anuria or hypersensitivity to other sulfonamide-derived drugs. Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor (e.g., sacubitril). Do not administer lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril/valsartan, a neprilysin inhibitor (see WARNINGS ). Do not coadminister aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. CONTRAINDICATIONS Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this product and in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous treatment with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and in patients with hereditary or idiopathic angioedema. Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide is contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor (e.g., sacubitril). Do not administer Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril/valsartan, a neprilysin inhibitor (see WARNINGS ). Do not co-administer aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide is contraindicated: In patients with hypersensitivity to any component of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 , 6.2 )] In patients with anuria [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] For coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes [ s ee Drug Interactions (7.4) ]. Hypersensitivity to any component of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide ( 4 ) Anuria ( 4 ) Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes. ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Anuria. Hypersensitivity to this product or to other sulfonamide-derived drugs. CONTRAINDICATIONS: Hyperkalemia: Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide should not be used in the presence of elevated serum potassium levels (greater than or equal to 5.5 mEq/liter). If hyperkalemia develops, this drug should be discontinued and a thiazide alone should be substituted. Antikaliuretic Therapy or Potassium Supplementation: Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide should not be given to patients receiving other potassium-conserving agents such as spironolactone, amiloride hydrochloride or other formulations containing triamterene. Concomitant potassium supplementation in the form of medication, potassium-containing salt substitute or potassium-enriched diets should also not be used. Impaired Renal Function: Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide is contraindicated in patients with anuria, acute and chronic renal insufficiency or significant renal impairment. Hypersensitivity: Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide should not be used in patients who are hypersensitive to triamterene or hydrochlorothiazide or other sulfonamide-derived drugs. CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydrochlorothiazide is contraindicated in patients with anuria. Hypersensitivity to this product or other sulfonamide derived drugs is also contraindicated. CONTRAINDICATIONS: Anuria. CONTRAINDICATIONS Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this product and in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous treatment with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and in patients with hereditary or idiopathic angioedema. Do not administer Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablet within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril/valsartan, a neprilysin inhibitor (see WARNINGS ). Do not co-administer aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ).
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Lisinopril Hypotension - Patients on Diuretic Therapy: Patients on diuretics and especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted, may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with lisinopril. The possibility of hypotensive effects with lisinopril can be minimized by either discontinuing the diuretic or increasing the salt intake prior to initiation of treatment with lisinopril. If it is necessary to continue the diuretic, initiate therapy with lisinopril at a dose of 5 mg daily, and provide close medical supervision after the initial dose for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour. (See WARNINGS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) When a diuretic is added to the therapy of a patient receiving lisinopril, an additional antihypertensive effect is usually observed (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) Inhibitors: In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including lisinopril, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving lisinopril and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors, including lisinopril, may be attenuated by NSAIDs. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS): Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or direct renin inhibitors (such as aliskiren) is associated with increased risk of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The VA NEPHRON trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 to 89.9 ml/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR, end state renal disease, or death, but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with PRINZIDE in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). Other Agents: Lisinopril has been used concomitantly with nitrates and/or digoxin without evidence of clinically significant adverse interactions. No meaningful clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions occurred when lisinopril was used concomitantly with propranolol, digoxin, or hydrochlorothiazide. The presence of food in the stomach does not alter the bioavailability of lisinopril. Agents Increasing Serum Potassium: Lisinopril attenuates potassium loss caused by thiazide-type diuretics. Use of lisinopril with potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, eplerenone, triamterene, or amiloride), potassium supplements, or potassium-containing salt substitutes may lead to significant increases in serum potassium. Therefore, if concomitant use of these agents is indicated, because of demonstrated hypokalemia, they should be used with caution and with frequent monitoring of serum potassium. Lithium: Lithium toxicity has been reported in patients receiving lithium concomitantly with drugs which cause elimination of sodium, including ACE inhibitors. Lithium toxicity was usually reversible upon discontinuation of lithium and the ACE inhibitor. It is recommended that serum lithium levels be monitored frequently if lisinopril is administered concomitantly with lithium. Gold: Nitritoid reactions (symptoms include facial flushing, nausea, vomiting and hypotension) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold (sodium aurothiomalate) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitors: Patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitor and mTOR inhibitor (e.g., temsirolimus, sirolimus, everolimus) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema. (see WARNINGS ) Neprilysin Inhibitors: Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema. (see WARNINGS ) Hydrochlorothiazide When administered concurrently the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics. Alcohol, barbiturates, or narcotics - potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur. Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) - dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Other antihypertensive drugs - additive effect or potentiation. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins - Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% and 43%, respectively. Corticosteroids, ACTH - intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia. Pressor amines (e.g., norepinephrine) - possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use. Skeletal muscle relaxants, nondepolarizing (e.g., tubocurarine) - possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant. Lithium - should not generally be given with diuretics. Diuretic agents reduce the renal clearance of lithium and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatoryDrugs - In some patients, the administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is obtained. Drug Interactions Lisinopril Hypotension - Patients on Diuretic Therapy : Patients on diuretics, and especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted, may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with lisinopril. If it is necessary to continue the diuretic, initiate therapy with lisinopril at a dose of 5 mg daily, and provide close medical supervision after the initial dose for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour (See WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) When a diuretic is added to the therapy of a patient receiving lisinopril, an additional antihypertensive effect is usually observed (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy) or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including lisinopril may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS): Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The VA NEPHRON trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30mL/min to 89.9 mL/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors, closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with renal impairment (GFR < 60 mL/min). mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitors Patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitor and mTOR inhibitor (e.g., temsirolimus, sirolimus, everolimus) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema. (see WARNINGS ) Neprilysin Inhibitors Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema. Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) — dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide. Non-Steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs - In some patients, the administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide is obtained. Gold - Nitritoid reactions (symptoms include facial flushing, nausea, vomiting and hypotension) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold (sodium aurothiomalate) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity ( 7.2 ) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): Reduced diuretic, natriuretic and antihypotensive effects; increased risk of renal toxicity ( 7.3 ) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia ( 7.4 ) Colesevelam hydrochloride: Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride dose ( 7.5 ) Antidiabetic drugs: Dosage adjustment may be required ( 7.6 ) Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides ( 7.6 ) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. Monitor serum potassium in such patients. 7.2 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists or hydrochlorothiazide. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use. 7. 3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) Olmesartan medoxomil In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including olmesartan medoxomil) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Hydrochlorothiazide In some patients the administration of a NSAID can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of thiazide diuretics. Therefore, monitor blood pressure closely. 7.4 Dual Blockade of the Renin Angiotensin System Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes [see Contraindications (4) ]. Avoid use of aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). 7.5 Colesevelam H ydrochloride Concurrent administration of bile acid sequestering agent colesevelam hydrochloride reduces the systemic exposure and peak plasma concentration of olmesartan. Administration of olmesartan at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride decreased the drug interaction effect. Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before the colesevelam hydrochloride dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 6 The Use of Hydrochlorothiazide with Other Drugs When administered concurrently the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics: Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) : Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Ion exchange resins: Staggering the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and ion exchange resins (e.g., cholestyramine, colestipol) such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 – 6 hours after the administration of resins would potentially minimize the interaction [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Corticosteroids, ACTH : Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia. Drug Interactions When given concurrently the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics. Alcohol, Barbiturates, or Narcotics Potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur. Antidiabetic Drugs - (Oral Agents and Insulin) Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Other Antihypertensive Drugs Additive effect or potentiation. Cholestyramine and Colestipol Resins Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent, respectively. Corticosteroids, ACTH Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia. Pressor Amines (e.g., Norepinephrine) Possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use. Skeletal Muscle Relaxants, Nondepolarizing (e.g., Tubocurarine) Possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant. Lithium Generally should not be given with diuretics. Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with hydrochlorothiazide. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs In some patients, the administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when hydrochlorothiazide and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. Antidiabetic Drugs (Oral Agents and Insulin) Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Diuretic agents reduce the renal clear­ance of lithium and add a high risk of lithium tox­icity. Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with hydrochloro­thiazide. Drug Interactions: Thiazides may add to or potentiate the action of other antihypertensive drugs. The thiazides may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine. This diminution is not sufficient to preclude effectiveness of the pressor agent for therapeutic use. Thiazides have also been shown to increase the responsiveness to tubocurarine. Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics because they reduce its renal clearance and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Refer to the package insert on lithium before use of such concomitant therapy. Acute renal failure has been reported in a few patients receiving indomethacin and formulations containing triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide. Caution is therefore advised when administering non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents with triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide. Potassium-sparing agents should be used very cautiously, if at all, in conjunction with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors due to a greatly increased risk of hyperkalemia. Serum potassium should be monitored frequently. Alcohol, barbiturates, or narcotics: potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur. Antidiabetic drugs: (oral agents and insulin) dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Other antihypertensive drugs: additive effect or potentiation. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins: Cholestyramine and colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent, respectively. Corticosteroid, ACTH: intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia. Pressor amines (e.g., norepinephrine): possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use. Skeletal muscle relaxants, nondepolarizing (e.g., tubocurarine): possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant. Lithium: generally should not be given with diuretics. Diuretic agents reduce the renal clearance of lithium and greatly increase the risk of lithium toxicity. Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with hydrochlorothiazide capsules. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs: In some patients, the administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. When hydrochlorothiazide capsules and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patients should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions: Thiazides should be discontinued before carrying out tests for parathyroid function (see PRECAUTIONS , General ). If it is necessary to continue the diuretic, initiate therapy with lisinopril at a dose of 5 mg daily, and provide close medical supervision after the initial dose for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour (See WARNINGS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). When a diuretic is added to the therapy of a patient receiving lisinopril, an additional antihypertensive effect is usually observed (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including lisinopril, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The VA NEPHRON trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 mL/min to 89.9 mL/min ), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors, closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR < 60 mL/min). Gold: Nitritoid reactions (symptoms include facial flushing, nausea, vomiting and hypotension) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold (sodium aurothiomalate) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide.

=== DOXYCYCLINE HYCLATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain effectiveness of doxycycline and other antibacterial drugs, doxycycline should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. Treatment: Doxycycline is indicated for the treatment of the following infections: Rocky Mountain spotted fever, typhus fever and the typhus group, Q fever, rickettsialpox, and tick fevers caused by Rickettsiae. Respiratory tract infections caused by Mycoplasma pneumoniae . Lymphogranuloma venereum caused by Chlamydia trachomatis . Psittacosis (ornithosis) caused by Chlamydophila psittaci . Trachoma caused by Chlamydia trachomatis , although the infectious agent is not always eliminated, as judged by immunofluorescence. Inclusion conjunctivitis caused by Chlamydia trachomatis . Uncomplicated urethral, endocervical, or rectal infections in adults caused by Chlamydia trachomatis . Nongonococcal urethritis caused by Ureaplasma urealyticum . Relapsing fever due to Borrelia recurrentis . Doxycycline is also indicated for the treatment of infections caused by the following gram-negative microorganisms: Chancroid caused by Haemophilus ducreyi . Plague due to Yersinia pestis . Tularemia due to Francisella tularensis . Cholera caused by Vibrio cholerae . Campylobacter fetus infections caused by Campylobacter fetus . Brucellosis due to Brucella species (in conjunction with streptomycin). Bartonellosis due to Bartonella bacilliformis . Granuloma inguinale caused by Klebsiella granulomatis . Because many strains of the following groups of microorganisms have been shown to be resistant to doxycycline, culture and susceptibility testing are recommended. Doxycycline is indicated for treatment of infections caused by the following gram-negative bacteria, when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug: Escherichia coli . Enterobacter aerogenes . Shigella species. Acinetobacter species. Respiratory tract infections caused by Haemophilus influenzae . Respiratory tract and urinary tract infections caused by Klebsiella species. Doxycycline is indicated for treatment of infections caused by the following gram-positive microorganisms when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug: Upper respiratory infections caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae . Anthrax due to Bacillus anthracis , including inhalational anthrax (post-exposure): to reduce the incidence or progression of disease following exposure to aerosolized Bacillus anthracis . When penicillin is contraindicated, doxycycline is an alternative drug in the treatment of the following infections: Uncomplicated gonorrhea caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae . Syphilis caused by Treponema pallidum . Yaws caused by Treponema pallidum subspecies pertenue . Listeriosis due to Listeria monocytogenes . Vincent's infection caused by Fusobacterium fusiforme . Actinomycosis caused by Actinomyces israelii . Infections caused by Clostridium species. In acute intestinal amebiasis, doxycycline may be a useful adjunct to amebicides. In severe acne, doxycycline may be useful adjunctive therapy. Prophylaxis: Doxycycline is indicated for the prophylaxis of malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum in short-term travelers (< 4 months) to areas with chloroquine and/or pyrimethamine-sulfadoxine resistant strains. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section and Information for Patients subsection of the PRECAUTIONS section.) INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain effectiveness of doxycycline hyclate and other antibacterial drugs, doxycycline hyclate should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Treatment: Doxycycline is indicated for the treatment of the following infections: Rocky Mountain spotted fever, typhus fever and the typhus group, Q fever, rickettsialpox, and tick fevers caused by Rickettsiae . Respiratory tract infections caused by Mycoplasma pneumoniae. Lymphogranuloma venereum caused by Chlamydia trachomatis. Psittacosis (ornithosis) caused by Chlamydophila psittaci. Trachoma caused by Chlamydia trachomatis, although the infectious agent is not always eliminated, as judged by immunofluorescence. Inclusion conjunctivitis caused by Chlamydia trachomatis. Uncomplicated urethral, endocervical, or rectal infections in adults caused by Chlamydia trachomatis. Nongonococcal urethritis caused by Ureaplasma urealyticum. Relapsing fever due to Borrelia recurrentis. Doxycycline is also indicated for the treatment of infections caused by the following gram-negative microorganisms: Chancroid caused by Haemophilus ducreyi. Plague due to Yersinia pestis. Tularemia due to Francisella tularensis. Cholera caused by Vibrio cholerae. Campylobacter fetus infections caused by Campylobacter fetus. Bartonellosis due to Bartonella bacilliformis. Granuloma inguinale caused by Klebsiella granulomatis. Doxycycline is indicated for treatment of infections caused by the following gram-negative bacteria, when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug: Escherichia coli. Enterobacter aerogenes. Respiratory tract infections caused by Haemophilus influenzae. Respiratory tract and urinary tract infections caused by Klebsiella species Doxycycline is indicated for treatment of infections caused by the following gram-positive microorganisms when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug: Upper respiratory infections caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae. Anthrax due to Bacillus anthracis, including inhalational anthrax (post-exposure): to reduce the incidence or progression of disease following exposure to aerosolized Bacillus anthracis. When penicillin is contraindicated, doxycycline is an alternative drug in the treatment of the following infections: Uncomplicated gonorrhea caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae. Syphilis caused by Treponema pallidum. Yaws caused by Treponema pallidum subspecies pertenue. Listeriosis due to Listeria monocytogenes. Vincent’s infection caused by Fusobacterium fusiforme. Actinomycosis caused by Actinomyces israelii. Prophylaxis: Doxycycline is indicated for the prophylaxis of malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum in short-term travelers (<4 months) to areas with chloroquine and/or pyrimethamine-sulfadoxine resistant strains. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section and Information for Patients subsection of the PRECAUTIONS section .) Treatment Doxycycline is indicated for the treatment of the following infections Rocky Mountain spotted fever, typhus fever and the typhus group, Q fever, rickettsialpox, and tick fevers caused by Rickettsiae. Doxycycline is indicated for treatment of infections caused by the following gram-negative bacteria when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug: Escherichia coli. Doxycycline is indicated for treatment of infections caused by the following gram-positive microorganisms when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug: Upper respiratory infections caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae. Anthrax due to Bacillus anthracis, including inhalational anthrax (post-exposure): to reduce the incidence or progression of disease following exposure to aerosolized Bacillus anthracis . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets are a tetracycline-class drug indicated for: • Rickettsial infections ( 1.1 ) • Sexually transmitted infections ( 1.2 ) • Respiratory tract infections ( 1.3 ) • Specific bacterial infections ( 1.4 ) • Ophthalmic infections ( 1.5 ) • Anthrax, including inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) ( 1.6 ) • Alternative treatment for selected infections when penicillin is contraindicated ( 1.7 ) • Adjunctive therapy in acute intestinal amebiasis and severe acne ( 1.8 ) • Prophylaxis of malaria ( 1.9 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets and other antibacterial drugs, doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.10 ) 1.1 Rickettsial Infections Doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets are indicated for treatment of Rocky Mountain spotted fever, typhus fever and the typhus group, Q fever, rickettsialpox, and tick fevers caused by Rickettsiae . 1.2 Sexually Transmitted Infections Doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets are indicated for treatment of the following sexually transmitted infections: • Uncomplicated urethral, endocervical or rectal infections caused by Chlamydia trachomatis. • Nongonococcal urethritis caused by Ureaplasma urealyticum . • Lymphogranuloma venereum caused by Chlamydia trachomatis . • Granuloma inguinale caused by Klebsiella granulomatis . • Uncomplicated gonorrhea caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae. • Chancroid caused by Haemophilus ducreyi . 1.3 Respiratory Tract Infections Doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets are indicated for treatment of the following respiratory infections: • Respiratory tract infections caused by Mycoplasma pneumoniae . • Psittacosis (ornithosis) caused by Chlamydophila psittaci . • Because many strains of the following groups of microorganisms have been shown to be resistant to doxycycline, culture and susceptibility testing are recommended. • Doxycycline is indicated for treatment of infections caused by the following micro-organisms, when bacteriological testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug: - Respiratory tract infections caused by Haemophilus influenzae . - Respiratory tract infections caused by Klebsiella species. - Upper respiratory infections caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae . 1.4 Specific Bacterial Infections Doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets are indicated for treatment of the following specific bacterial infections: • Relapsing fever due to Borrelia recurrentis . • Plague due to Yersinia pestis . • Tularemia due to Francisella tularensis . • Cholera caused by Vibrio cholerae . • Campylobacter fetus infections caused by Campylobacter fetus . • Brucellosis due to Brucella species (in conjunction with streptomycin). • Bartonellosis due to Bartonella bacilliformis . Doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets are indicated for treatment of infections caused by the following gram-negative microorganisms, when bacteriological testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug: • Escherichia coli • Enterobacter aerogenes • Shigella species • Acinetobacter species • Urinary tract infections caused by Klebsiella species. 1.5 Ophthalmic Infections Doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets are indicated for treatment of the following ophthalmic infections: • Trachoma caused by Chlamydia trachomatis , although the infectious agent is not always eliminated as judged by immunofluorescence. • Inclusion conjunctivitis caused by Chlamydia trachomatis . 1.6 Anthrax, Including Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) Doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of Anthrax due to Bacillus anthracis , including inhalational anthrax (post-exposure): to reduce the incidence or progression of disease following exposure to aerosolized Bacillus anthracis . 1.7 Alternative Treatment for Selected Infections When Penicillin is Contraindicated Doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets are indicated as an alternative treatment for the following selected infections when penicillin is contraindicated: • Syphilis caused by Treponema pallidum . • Yaws caused by Treponema pallidum subspecies pertenue . • Vincent’s infection caused by Fusobacterium fusiforme. • Actinomycosis caused by Actinomyces israelii . • Infections caused by Clostridium species. 1.8 Adjunctive Therapy for Acute Intestinal Amebiasis and Severe Acne In acute intestinal amebiasis, doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets may be a useful adjunct to amebicides. 1.9 Prophylaxis of Malaria Doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets are indicated for the prophylaxis of malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum in short-term travelers (less than 4 months) to areas with chloroquine and/or pyrimethamine-sulfadoxine resistant strains [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )] . 1.10 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets and other antibacterial drugs, doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of doxycycline for injection, and other antibacterial drugs, doxycycline for injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Doxycycline for injection is indicated in infections caused by the following microorganisms: • Rickettsiae (Rocky Mountain spotted fever, typhus fever, and the typhus group, Q fever, rickettsial pox and tick fevers). • Mycoplasma pneumoniae (PPLO, Eaton Agent). • Agents of psittacosis and ornithosis. • Agents of lymphogranuloma venereum and granuloma inguinale. • The spirochetal agent of relapsing fever (Borrelia recurrentis) . The following gram-negative microorganisms: • Haemophilus ducreyi (chancroid). • Yersinia pestis and Francisella tularensis . • Bartonella bacilliformis . • Bacteroides species. • Vibrio cholerae and Campylobacter fetus . • Brucella species (in conjunction with streptomycin). Because many strains of the following groups of microorganisms have been shown to be resistant to tetracyclines, culture and susceptibility testing are recommended. Doxycycline for injection is indicated for treatment of infections caused by the following gram-negative microorganisms when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug: • Escherichia coli. • Enterobacter aerogenes . • Shigella species. • Acinetobacter species. • Haemophilus influenzae (respiratory infections). • Klebsiella species (respiratory and urinary infections). Doxycycline for injection is indicated for treatment of infections caused by the following gram-positive microorganisms when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug: • Streptococcus species: Up to 44 percent of strains of Streptococcus pyogenes and 74 percent of Streptococcus faecalis have been found to be resistant to tetracycline drugs. Therefore, tetracyclines should not be used for streptococcal disease unless the organism has been demonstrated to be sensitive. For upper respiratory infections due to group A beta-hemolytic streptococci, penicillin is the usual drug of choice, including prophylaxis of rheumatic fever. • Streptococcus pneumoniae . • Staphylococcus aureus , respiratory, skin and soft tissue infections. Tetracyclines are not the drugs of choice in the treatment of any type of staphylococcal infections. • Anthrax due to Bacillus anthracis , including inhalational anthrax (post-exposure): to reduce the incidence or progression of disease following exposure to aerosolized Bacillus anthracis . When penicillin is contraindicated, doxycycline is an alternative drug in the treatment of infections due to: • Neisseria gonorrhoeae and N. meningitidis. • Treponema pallidum and Treponema pertenue (syphilis and yaws). • Listeria monocytogenes. • Clostridium species. • Fusobacterium fusiforme (Vincent’s infection). • Actinomyces species. Doxycycline for injection is indicated in the treatment of trachoma, although the infectious agent is not always eliminated, as judged by immunofluorescence.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual dosage and frequency of administration of doxycycline differs from that of the other tetracyclines. Exceeding the recommended dosage may result in an increased incidence of side effects. Adults: The usual dose of oral doxycycline is 200 mg on the first day of treatment (administered 100 mg every 12 hours) followed by a maintenance dose of 100 mg/day. In the management of more severe infections (particularly chronic infections of the urinary tract), 100 mg every 12 hours is recommended. Pediatric Patients: For all pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg with severe or life-threatening infections (e.g., anthrax, Rocky Mountain spotted fever), the recommended dosage is 2.2 mg/kg of body weight administered every 12 hours. Children weighing 45 kg or more should receive the adult dose. (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .) For pediatric patients with less severe disease (greater than 8 years of age and weighing less than 45 kg), the recommended dosage schedule is 4.4 mg/kg of body weight divided into two doses on the first day of treatment, followed by a maintenance dose of 2.2 mg/kg of body weight (given as a single daily dose or divided into twice daily doses). For pediatric patients weighing over 45 kg, the usual adult dose should be used. The therapeutic antibacterial serum activity will usually persist for 24 hours following recommended dosage. When used in streptococcal infections, therapy should be continued for 10 days. Administration of adequate amounts of fluid along with capsule and tablet forms of drugs in the tetracycline class is recommended to wash down the drugs and reduce the risk of esophageal irritation and ulceration. (See ADVERSE REACTIONS .) If gastric irritation occurs, it is recommended that doxycycline be given with food or milk. The absorption of doxycycline is not markedly influenced by simultaneous ingestion of food or milk. Studies to date have indicated that administration of doxycycline at the usual recommended doses does not lead to excessive accumulation of doxycycline in patients with renal impairment. Uncomplicated gonococcal infections in adults (except anorectal infections in men): 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for 7 days. As an alternate single visit dose, administer 300 mg stat followed in one hour by a second 300 mg dose. The dose may be administered with food, including milk or carbonated beverage, as required. Uncomplicated urethral, endocervical, or rectal infection in adults caused by Chlamydia trachomatis : 100 mg, by mouth twice a day for 7 days. Nongonococcal urethritis (NGU) caused by C. trachomatis or U. urealyticum : 100 mg by mouth, twice a day for 7 days. Syphilis – early: Patients who are allergic to penicillin should be treated with doxycycline 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for 2 weeks. Syphilis of more than one year's duration: Patients who are allergic to penicillin should be treated with doxycycline 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for 4 weeks. Acute epididymo-orchitis caused by N. gonorrhoeae : 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for at least 10 days. Acute epididymo-orchitis caused by C. trachomatis : 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for at least 10 days. For prophylaxis of malaria: For adults, the recommended dose is 100 mg daily. For children over 8 years of age, the recommended dose is 2 mg/kg given once daily up to the adult dose. Prophylaxis should begin 1-2 days before travel to the malarious area. Prophylaxis should be continued daily during travel in the malarious area and for 4 weeks after the traveler leaves the malarious area. Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure): ADULTS: 100 mg of doxycycline, by mouth, twice a day for 60 days. CHILDREN: weighing less than 45 kg; 2.2 mg/kg of body weight by mouth, twice a day for 60 days. Children weighing 45 kg or more should receive the adult dose.(See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .) For pediatric patients with less severe disease (greater than 8 years of age and weighing less than 45 kg), the recommended dosage schedule is 4.4 mg/kg of body weight divided into two doses on the first day of treatment, followed by a maintenance dose of 2.2 mg/kg of body weight (given as a single daily dose or divided into twice daily doses). Prophylaxis should begin 1–2 days before travel to the malarious area. Adults: The usual dose of oral doxycycline hyclate tablets is 200 mg on the first day of treatment (administered 100 mg every 12 hours) followed by a maintenance dose of 100 mg/day. Syphilis of more than one year’s duration: Patients who are allergic to penicillin should be treated with doxycycline 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for 4 weeks. Prophylaxis should begin 1 to 2 days before travel to the malarious area. Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure): ADULTS: 100 mg of doxycycline hyclate tablets, by mouth, twice a day for 60 days. Uncomplicated urethral, endocervical, or rectal infection in adults caused by Chlamydia trachomatis: 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for 7 days. urealyticum : 100 mg, by mouth twice a day for 7 days. gonorrhoeae: 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for at least 10 days. trachomatis: 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for at least 10 days. Adults : The usual dose of oral doxycycline is 200 mg on the first day of treatment (administered 100 mg every 12 hours) followed by a maintenance dose of 100 mg/day. Pediatric Patients : For all pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg with severe or life-threatening infections (e.g., anthrax, Rocky Mountain spotted fever), the recommended dosage is 2.2 mg/kg of body weight administered every 12 hours. Uncomplicated urethral, endocervical, or rectal infection in adults caused by Chlamydia trachomatis: 100 mg, by mouth twice a day for 7 days. urealyticum: 100 mg by mouth, twice a day for 7 days. Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure): ADULTS: 100 mg of doxycycline, by mouth, twice a day for 60 days CHILDREN: weighing less than 45 kg; 2.2 mg/kg of body weight by mouth, twice a day for 60 days. Doxycycline for Oral Suspension Mixing Directions Tap bottle lightly to loosen powder. Add 47.6 mL of water to the bottle to make a total volume of 60 mL. Shake well. This prescription, when in suspension, will maintain its potency for two weeks when kept at room temperature. Discard Unused Portion After Two Weeks. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Dosage in Adult Patients: ο The usual dosage is 200 mg on the first day of treatment (administered 100 mg every 12 hours) followed by a maintenance dose of 100 mg daily. ( 2.1 ) ο In the management of more severe infections (particularly chronic infections of the urinary tract), 100 mg every 12 hours is recommended. ( 2.1 ) • Dosage in Pediatric Patients: ο For all pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg with severe or life-threatening infections (e.g., anthrax, Rocky Mountain spotted fever), the recommended dose is 2.2 mg per kg of body weight administered every 12 hours. Pediatric patients weighing 45 kg or more should receive the adult dose. ( 2.1 ) ο For pediatric patients with less severe disease (greater than 8 years of age and weighing less than 45 kg), the recommended dose is 4.4 mg per kg of body weight divided into two doses on the first day of treatment, followed by a maintenance dose of 2.2 mg per kg of body weight (given as a single daily dose or divided into two doses). ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions • Doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets are not substitutable on a mg per mg basis with other oral doxycyclines. To avoid prescribing errors, do not substitute doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets for other oral doxycyclines on a mg per mg basis because of differing bioavailability. • Do not chew or crush tablets [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )]. • The recommended dosage, frequency of administration and weight-based dosage recommendations of doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets differ from that of the other tetracyclines [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2, 2.3 , 2.4 ) ] . Exceeding the recommended dosage may result in an increased incidence of adverse reactions. • Administer doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets with an adequate amount of fluid to wash down the drug and reduce the risk of esophageal irritation and ulceration [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . • If gastric irritation occurs, doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets may be given with food or milk [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.3 Dosage in Adult Patients • The usual dosage of doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets is 200 mg on the first day of treatment (administered 100 mg every 12 hours), followed by a maintenance dose of 100 mg daily. • The maintenance dose may be administered as a single dose or as 50 mg every 12 hours. • In the management of more severe infections (particularly chronic infections of the urinary tract), 100 mg every 12 hours is recommended. 2.4 Dosage in Pediatric Patients • For all pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg with severe or life threatening infections (e.g., anthrax, Rocky Mountain spotted fever), the recommended dosage of doxycycline is 2.2 mg per kg of body weight administered every 12 hours. Pediatric patients weighing 45 kg or more should receive the adult dose [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . • For pediatric patients with less severe disease (greater than 8 years of age and weighing less than 45 kg), the recommended dosage schedule of doxycycline is 4.4 mg per kg of body weight divided into two doses on the first day of treatment, followed by a maintenance dose of 2.2 mg per kg of body weight (given as a single daily dose or divided into twice daily doses). 2.5 Dosage for Prophylaxis of Malaria For adults, the recommended dose of doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets is 100 mg daily. For pediatric patients 8 years of age and older, the recommended dose is 2 mg/kg administered once daily up to the adult dose. Prophylaxis should begin 1 or 2 days before travel to the malarious area. 2.6 Dosage for Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) For adults the recommended dosage is 100 mg of doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets, by mouth, twice-a-day for 60 days. For pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg, the recommended dosage of doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets is 2.2 mg/kg of body weight, by mouth, twice-a-day for 60 days. 2.7 Sprinkling the Tablet Over Applesauce Doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets may also be administered by carefully breaking up the tablet and sprinkling the tablet contents (delayed-release pellets) on a spoonful of applesauce. The delayed-release pellets must not be crushed or damaged when breaking up the tablet. Any loss of pellets in the transfer would prevent using the dose. The applesauce/ doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets mixture should be swallowed immediately without chewing and may be followed by a glass of water if desired. The applesauce should not be hot, and it should be soft enough to be swallowed without chewing. In the event that a prepared dose of applesauce/ doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets mixture cannot be taken immediately, the mixture should be discarded and not stored for later use. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION NOTE: Rapid administration is to be avoided. Parenteral therapy is indicated only when oral therapy is not indicated. Oral therapy should be instituted as soon as possible. If intravenous therapy is given over prolonged periods of time, thrombophlebitis may result. The usual dosage and frequency of administration of doxycycline for injection (100 to 200 mg/day) differs from that of the other tetracyclines (1 to 2 g/day). Studies to date have indicated that doxycycline hyclate at the usual recommended doses does not lead to excessive accumulation of the antibiotic in patients with renal impairment. Adults The usual dosage of doxycycline for injection is 200 mg on the first day of treatment administered in one or two infusions. Subsequent daily dosage is 100 to 200 mg depending upon the severity of infection, with 200 mg administered in one or two infusions. In the treatment of primary and secondary syphilis, the recommended dosage is 300 mg daily for at least 10 days. In the treatment of inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) the recommended dose is 100 mg of doxycycline, twice a day. Parenteral therapy is only indicated when oral therapy is not indicated and should not be continued over a prolonged period of time. Therapy must continue for a total of 60 days. Pediatric Patients For all pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg with severe or life-threatening infections (e.g., anthrax, Rocky Mountain spotted fever), the recommended dosage is 2.2 mg/kg of body weight administered every 12 hours. Children weighing 45 kg or more should receive the adult dose (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ). For pediatric patients with less severe disease (greater than 8 years of age and weighing less than 45 kg), the recommended dosage schedule is 4.4 mg/kg of body weight divided into two doses on the first day of treatment, followed by a maintenance dose of 2.2 mg/kg of body weight (given as a single daily dose or divided into twice daily doses). In the treatment of inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) the recommended dose is 2.2 mg/kg of body weight, twice a day in children weighing less than 45 kg. General The duration of infusion may vary with the dose (100 to 200 mg/day), but is usually one to four hours. A recommended minimum infusion time for 100 mg of a 0.5 mg/mL solution is one hour. Therapy should be continued for at least 24 to 48 hours after symptoms and fever have subsided. Intravenous solutions should not be injected intramuscularly or subcutaneously. Caution should be taken to avoid the inadvertent introduction of the intravenous solution into the adjacent soft tissue.
Warnings: WARNINGS The use of drugs of the tetracycline class during tooth development (last half of pregnancy, infancy and childhood to the age of 8 years) may cause permanent discoloration of the teeth (yellow-gray-brown). This adverse reaction is more common during long-term use of the drugs, but it has been observed following repeated short-term courses. Enamel hypoplasia has also been reported. Use doxycycline in pediatric patients 8 years of age or less only when the potential benefits are expected to outweigh the risks in severe or life-threatening conditions (e.g., anthrax, Rocky Mountain spotted fever), particularly when there are no alternative therapies. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including doxycycline, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C. difficile . C. difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD. Hypertoxin producing strains of C. difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality, as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following the use of antibacterial drugs. Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents. If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing use of antibacterial drugs not directed against C. difficile may need to be discontinued. Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibacterial treatment of C. difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. Severe skin reactions, such as exfoliative dermatitis, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) have been reported in patients receiving doxycycline. (See ADVERSE REACTIONS .) If severe skin reactions occur, doxycycline should be discontinued immediately and appropriate therapy should be instituted. Intracranial hypertension (IH, pseudotumor cerebri) has been associated with the use of tetracyclines including doxycycline. Clinical manifestations of IH include headache, blurred vision, diplopia, and vision loss; papilledema can be found on fundoscopy. Women of childbearing age who are overweight or have a history of IH are at greater risk for developing tetracycline associated IH. Concomitant use of isotretinoin and doxycycline should be avoided because isotretinoin is also known to cause pseudotumor cerebri. Although IH typically resolves after discontinuation of treatment, the possibility for permanent visual loss exists. If visual disturbance occurs during treatment, prompt ophthalmologic evaluation is warranted. Since intracranial pressure can remain elevated for weeks after drug cessation patients should be monitored until they stabilize. All tetracyclines form a stable calcium complex in any bone-forming tissue. A decrease in fibula growth rate has been observed in prematures given oral tetracycline in doses of 25 mg/kg every 6 hours. This reaction was shown to be reversible when the drug was discontinued. Results of animal studies indicate that tetracyclines cross the placenta, are found in fetal tissues, and can have toxic effects on the developing fetus (often related to retardation of skeletal development). Evidence of embryotoxicity has also been noted in animals treated early in pregnancy. If any tetracycline is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. The antianabolic action of the tetracyclines may cause an increase in BUN. Studies to date indicate that this does not occur with the use of doxycycline in patients with impaired renal function. Photosensitivity manifested by an exaggerated sunburn reaction has been observed in some individuals taking tetracyclines. Patients apt to be exposed to direct sunlight or ultraviolet light should be advised that this reaction can occur with tetracycline drugs, and treatment should be discontinued at the first evidence of skin erythema. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including doxycycline hyclate tablets, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Fixed drug eruptions have occurred with doxycycline and have been associated with worsening severity upon subsequent administrations, including generalized bullous fixed drug eruption (See ADVERSE REACTIONS .) If severe skin reactions occur, discontinue doxycycline hyclate tablets immediately and institute appropriate therapy. 0Since intracranial pressure can remain elevated for weeks after drug cessation patients should be monitored until they stabilize. Clostridioides difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including doxycycline hyclate, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Fixed drug eruptions have occurred with doxycycline and have been associated with worsening severity upon subsequent administrations, including generalized bullous fixed drug eruption (See ADVERSE REACTIONS ). If severe skin reactions occur, discontinue doxycycline hyclate immediately and institute appropriate therapy. Intracranial hypertension (IH, pseudotumor cerebri) has been associated with the use of tetracyclines including doxycycline hyclate. Concomitant use of isotretinoin and doxycycline hyclate should be avoided because isotretinoin is also known to cause pseudotumor cerebri. This adverse reaction is more common during long-term use of the drugs but has been observed following repeated short-term courses. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including doxycycline for injection, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use. If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C. Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibiotic treatment of C. Severe skin reactions, such as exfoliative dermatitis, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) have been reported in patients receiving doxycycline (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). If severe skin reactions occur, doxycycline should be discontinued immediately and appropriate therapy should be instituted. Patients apt to be exposed to direct sunlight or ultraviolet light, should be advised that this reaction can occur with tetracycline drugs, and treatment should be discontinued at the first evidence of skin erythema. The anti-anabolic action of the tetracyclines may cause an increase in BUN.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS This drug is contraindicated in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any of the tetracyclines. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Doxycyline is contraindicated in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any of the tetracyclines. Doxycycline is contraindicated in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any of the tetracyclines. ( 4 )
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Because tetracyclines have been shown to depress plasma prothrombin activity, patients who are on anticoagulant therapy may require downward adjustment of their anticoagulant dosage. Since bacteriostatic drugs may interfere with the bactericidal action of penicillin, it is advisable to avoid giving tetracyclines in conjunction with penicillin. Absorption of tetracyclines is impaired by antacids containing aluminum, calcium, or magnesium, and iron-containing preparations. Absorption of tetracyclines is impaired by bismuth subsalicylate. Barbiturates, carbamazepine, and phenytoin decrease the half-life of doxycycline. The concurrent use of tetracycline and Penthrane ® (methoxyflurane) has been reported to result in fatal renal toxicity. Concurrent use of tetracycline may render oral contraceptives less effective. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Patients who are on anticoagulant therapy may require downward adjustment of their anticoagulant dosage ( 7.1 ) • Avoid co-administration of tetracyclines with penicillin ( 7.2 ) • Absorption of tetracyclines, including doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets, is impaired by antacids containing aluminum, calcium, or magnesium, bismuth subsalicylate and iron-containing preparations ( 7.3 ) • Concurrent use of tetracyclines, including doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets, may render oral contraceptives less effective ( 7.4 ) • Barbiturates, carbamazepine and phenytoin decrease the half-life of doxycycline ( 7.5 ) 7.1 Anticoagulant Drugs Because tetracyclines have been shown to depress plasma prothrombin activity, patients who are on anticoagulant therapy may require downward adjustment of their anticoagulant dosage. 7.2 Penicillin Since bacteriostatic drugs may interfere with the bactericidal action of penicillin, it is advisable to avoid giving tetracyclines in conjunction with penicillin. 7.3 Antacids and Iron Preparations Absorption of tetracyclines is impaired by antacids containing aluminum, calcium, or magnesium, bismuth subsalicylate, and iron-containing preparations. 7.4 Oral Contraceptives Concurrent use of tetracycline may render oral contraceptives less effective. 7.5 Barbiturates and Anti-Epileptics Barbiturates, carbamazepine, and phenytoin decrease the half-life of doxycycline. 7.6 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions False elevations of urinary catecholamines may occur due to interference with the fluorescence test. Since bacteriostatic drugs may interfere with the bactericidal action of penicillin, it is advisable to avoid giving tetracycline in conjunction with penicillin.

=== KETOROLAC TROMETHAMINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of ketorolac tromethamine and other treatment options before deciding to use ketorolac. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS ). Acute Pain in Adult Patients Ketorolac tromethamine is indicated for the short-term (≤5 days) management of moderately severe acute pain that requires analgesia at the opioid level, usually in a postoperative setting. Therapy should always be initiated with intravenous or intramuscular dosing of ketorolac tromethamine, and oral ketorolac tromethamine is to be used only as continuation treatment, if necessary. The total combined duration of use of ketorolac tromethamine injection and oral ketorolac tromethamine is not to exceed 5 days of use because of the potential of increasing the frequency and severity of adverse reactions associated with the recommended doses (see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Patients should be switched to alternative analgesics as soon as possible, but ketorolac tromethamine therapy is not to exceed 5 days. Ketorolac tromethamine injection has been used concomitantly with morphine and meperidine and has shown an opioid-sparing effect. For breakthrough pain, it is recommended to supplement the lower end of the ketorolac tromethamine injection dosage range with low doses of narcotics prn, unless otherwise contraindicated. Ketorolac tromethamine injection and narcotics should not be administered in the same syringe (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION – Pharmaceutical Information for Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution is indicated for the temporary relief of ocular itching due to seasonal allergic conjunctivitis. Ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution is also indicated for the treatment of postoperative inflammation in patients who have undergone cataract extraction. Ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution is a nonsteroidal, anti-inflammatory indicated for: The treatment of inflammation following cataract surgery. (1) The temporary relief of ocular itching due to seasonal allergic conjunctivitis. (1) Therapy should always be initiated with IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine, and oral ketorolac tromethamine is to be used only as continuation treatment, if necessary. The total combined duration of use of ketorolac tromethamine injection, and oral ketorolac tromethamine is not to exceed 5 days of use because of the potential of increasing the frequency and severity of adverse reactions associated with the recommended doses (see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Patients should be switched to alternative analgesics as soon as possible, but ketorolac tromethamine therapy is not to exceed 5 days (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Pharmaceutical Information for Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection ) . INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of ketorolac tromethamine tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use ketorolac tromethamine tablets. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals. Acute Pain in Adult Patients Ketorolac tromethamine tablets are indicated for the short-term (≤ 5 days) management of moderately severe acute pain that requires analgesia at the opioid level, usually in a postoperative setting. Therapy should always be initiated with intravenous or intramuscular dosing of ketorolac tromethamine, and ketorolac tromethamine tablets are to be used only as continuation treatment, if necessary. The total combined duration of use of ketorolac tromethamine tablets and ketorolac tromethamine is not to exceed 5 days of use because of the potential of increasing the frequency and severity of adverse reactions associated with the recommended doses (see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Patients should be switched to alternative analgesics as soon as possible, but ketorolac tromethamine tablets therapy is not to exceed 5 days. Acute Pain in Adult Patients Ketorolac tromethamine tablets are indicated for the short-term (≤5 days) management of moderately severe acute pain that requires analgesia at the opioid level, usually in a postoperative setting. Therapy should always be initiated with IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine and ketorolac tromethamine tablets are to be used only as continuation treatment, if necessary. Patients should be switched to alternative analgesics as soon as possible, but ketorolac tromethamine tablet therapy is not to exceed 5 days. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of ketorolac tromethamine tablets, USP and other treatment options before deciding to use ketorolac tromethamine tablets, USP. Acute Pain in Adult Patients Ketorolac tromethamine tablets, USP are indicated for the short-term (≤ 5 days) management of moderately severe acute pain that requires analgesia at the opioid level, usually in a postoperative setting. Therapy should always be initiated with IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine and ketorolac tromethamine tablets, USP are to be used only as continuation treatment, if necessary. The total combined duration of use of ketorolac tromethamine tablets, USP and ketorolac tromethamine is not to exceed 5 days of use because of the potential of increasing the frequency and severity of adverse reactions associated with the recommended doses (see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Patients should be switched to alternative analgesics as soon as possible, but Ketorolac Tromethamine Tablet USP therapy is not to exceed 5 days. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of Ketorolac Tromethamine Tablets USP and other treatment options before deciding to use Ketorolac Tromethamine Tablets USP. Acute Pain in Adult Patients Ketorolac Tromethamine Tablets USP are indicated for the short-term (≤ 5 days) management of moderately severe acute pain that requires analgesia at the opioid level, usually in a postoperative setting. Therapy should always be initiated with IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine and Ketorolac Tromethamine Tablets USP are to be used only as continuation treatment, if necessary. The total combined duration of use of Ketorolac Tromethamine Tablets USP and ketorolac tromethamine is not to exceed 5 days of use because of the potential of increasing the frequency and severity of adverse reactions associated with the recommended doses (see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Acute Pain in Adult Patients Ketorolac tromethamine is indicated for the short-term (≤ 5 days) management of moderately severe acute pain that requires analgesia at the opioid level, usually in a postoperative setting. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of ketorolac tromethamine tablets, USP and other treatment options before deciding to use ketorolac tromethamine tablets. Therapy should always be initiated with ketorolac tromethamine-IV or IM and ketorolac tromethamine tablets are to be used only as continuation treatment, if necessary. The total combined duration of use of ketorolac tromethamine-IV/IM and ketorolac tromethamine tablets is not to exceed 5 days of use because of the potential of increasing the frequency and severity of adverse reactions associated with the recommended doses (see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION and ADVERSE REACTIONS ).
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of ketorolac tromethamine and other treatment options before deciding to use ketorolac tromethamine. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals. In adults, the combined duration of use of intravenous or intramuscular dosing of ketorolac tromethamine and oral ketorolac tromethamine is not to exceed 5 days. In adults, the use of oral ketorolac tromethamine is only indicated as continuation therapy to intravenous or intramuscular dosing of ketorolac tromethamine. See package insert for ketorolac tromethamine tablets for transition from intravenous or intramuscular dosing of ketorolac tromethamine (single- or multiple-dose) to multiple-dose oral ketorolac tromethamine. Note: Oral formulation should not be given as an initial dose. Use minimum effective dose for the individual patient. Total duration of treatment in adult patients: the combined duration of use of intravenous or intramuscular dosing of ketorolac tromethamine and oral ketorolac tromethamine is not to exceed 5 days. KETOROLAC TROMETHAMINE INJECTION Ketorolac tromethamine injection may be used as a single or multiple dose on a regular or "prn" schedule for the management of moderately severe, acute pain that requires analgesia at the opioid level, usually in a postoperative setting. Hypovolemia should be corrected prior to the administration of ketorolac tromethamine (see WARNINGS – Renal Effects ). Patients should be switched to alternative analgesics as soon as possible, but ketorolac tromethamine therapy is not to exceed 5 days. When administering ketorolac tromethamine injection, the intravenous bolus must be given over no less than 15 seconds. The intramuscular administration should be given slowly and deeply into the muscle. The analgesic effect begins in ~30 minutes with maximum effect in 1 to 2 hours after dosing intravenous or intramuscular. Duration of analgesic effect is usually 4 to 6 hours. Single-Dose Treatment: The following regimen should be limited to single administration use only Intramuscular Dosing Patients <65 years of age: One dose of 60 mg. Patients ≥65 years of age, renally impaired and/or less than 50 kg (110 lbs) of body weight: One dose of 30 mg. Intravenous Dosing Patients <65 years of age: One dose of 30 mg. Patients ≥65 years of age, renally impaired and/or less than 50 kg (110 lbs) of body weight: One dose of 15 mg. Multiple-Dose Treatment (Intravenous or Intramuscular) Patients <65 years of age: The recommended dose is 30 mg ketorolac tromethamine injection every 6 hours. The maximum daily dose for these populations should not exceed 120 mg. For patients ≥65 years of age, renally impaired patients (see WARNINGS ), and patients less than 50 kg (110 lbs): The recommended dose is 15 mg ketorolac tromethamine injection every 6 hours. The maximum daily dose for these populations should not exceed 60 mg. For breakthrough pain, do not increase the dose or the frequency of ketorolac tromethamine. Consideration should be given to supplementing these regimens with low doses of opioids "prn" unless otherwise contraindicated. Pharmaceutical Information for Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection Ketorolac tromethamine injection should not be mixed in a small volume (e.g., in a syringe) with morphine sulfate, meperidine hydrochloride, promethazine hydrochloride or hydroxyzine hydrochloride; this will result in precipitation of ketorolac from solution. NOTE: Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One drop of ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution should be applied to the affected eye(s) four times a day for relief of ocular itching due to seasonal allergic conjunctivitis. For the treatment of postoperative inflammation in patients who have undergone cataract extraction, one drop of ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution should be applied to the affected eye four times daily beginning 24 hours after cataract surgery and continuing through the first 2 weeks of the postoperative period. (2.1) 2.1 Recommended Dosing Patient Dosing The recommended dose of ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution is one drop four times a day to the affected eye(s) for relief of ocular itching due to seasonal allergic conjunctivitis. 2.2 Use with Other Topical Ophthalmic Medications Ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution has been safely administered in conjunction with other ophthalmic medications such as antibiotics, alpha-agonists, beta blockers, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, cycloplegics, and mydriatics. Drops should be administered at least 5 minutes apart. In adults, the combined duration of use of IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine and oral ketorolac tromethamine is not to exceed 5 days. In adults, the use of oral ketorolac tromethamine is only indicated as continuation therapy to IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine. See package insert for ketorolac tromethamine tablets for transition from IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine (single- or multiple-dose) to multiple-dose oral ketorolac tromethamine. Total duration of treatment in adult patients: the combined duration of use of IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine and oral ketorolac tromethamine is not to exceed 5 days. KETOROLAC TROMETHAMINE INJECTION Ketorolac tromethamine injection may be used as a single or multiple dose on a regular or “prn” schedule for the management of moderately severe, acute pain that requires analgesia at the opioid level, usually in a postoperative setting. Hypovolemia should be corrected prior to the administration of ketorolac tromethamine (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ). When administering ketorolac tromethamine injection, the IV bolus must be given over no less than 15 seconds. The IM administration should be given slowly and deeply into the muscle. The analgesic effect begins in ~30 minutes with maximum effect in 1 to 2 hours after dosing IV or IM. Single-Dose Treatment: The following regimen should be limited to single administration use only IM Dosing • Patients <65 years of age: One dose of 60 mg. • Patients ≥65 years of age, renally impaired and/or less than 50 kg (110 lbs) of body weight: One dose of 30 mg. IV Dosing • Patients <65 years of age: One dose of 30 mg. • Patients ≥65 years of age, renally impaired and/or less than 50 kg (110 lbs) of body weight: One dose of 15 mg. Multiple-Dose Treatment (IV or IM) • Patients <65 years of age: The recommended dose is 30 mg ketorolac tromethamine injection every 6 hours. • For patients ≥65 years of age, renally impaired patients (see WARNINGS ), and patients less than 50 kg (110 lbs): The recommended dose is 15 mg ketorolac tromethamine injection every 6 hours. Consideration should be given to supplementing these regimens with low doses of opioids “prn” unless otherwise contraindicated. NOTE : Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of ketorolac tromethamine tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use ketorolac tromethamine tablets. In adults, the combined duration of use of intravenous or intramuscular dosing of ketorolac tromethamine and ketorolac tromethamine tablets is not to exceed 5 days. In adults, the use of ketorolac tromethamine tablets is only indicated as continuation therapy to intravenous or intramuscular dosing of ketorolac tromethamine. Transition from intravenous or intramuscular dosing of ketorolac tromethamine (single- or multiple-dose) to multiple-dose ketorolac tromethamine tablets: Patients age 17 to 64: 20 mg PO once followed by 10 mg q4 hours to 6 hours prn not > 40 mg/day Patients age ≥ 65, renally impaired, and/or weight < 50 kg (110 lbs): 10 mg PO once followed by 10 mg q4 hours to 6 hours prn not > 40 mg/day Note: Oral formulation should not be given as an initial dose Use minimum effective dose for the individual patient Do not shorten dosing interval of 4 hours to 6 hours Total duration of treatment in adult patients: the combined duration of use of intravenous or intramuscular dosing of ketorolac tromethamine and ketorolac tromethamine tablets is not to exceed 5 days. The following table summarizes ketorolac tromethamine tablets dosing instructions in terms of age group: Table 4: Summary of Dosing Instructions Patient Population Ketorolac Tromethamine Tablets (Following Intravenous or Intramuscular dosing of ketorolac tromethamine) Age < 17 years Oral not approved Adult Age 17 years to 64 years 20 mg once, then 10 mg q4 hours to 6 hours prn not > 40 mg/day Adult Age ≥ 65 years, renally impaired, and/or weight < 50 kg 10 mg once, then 10 mg q4 hours to 6 hours prn not > 40 mg/day In adults, the combined duration of use of IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine and ketorolac tromethamine tablets is not to exceed 5 days. In adults, the use of ketorolac tromethamine tablets is only indicated as continuation therapy to IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine. Transition from IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine (single- or multiple- dose) to multiple-dose ketorolac tromethamine tablets: Patients age 17 to 64: 20 mg PO once followed by 10 mg q4-6 hours prn not >40 mg/day Patients age ³65, renally impaired, and/or weight <50 kg (110 lbs): 10 mg PO once followed by 10 mg q4-6 hours prn not >40 mg/day Note: Oral formulation should not be given as an initial dose Use minimum effective dose for the individual patient Do not shorten dosing interval of 4 to 6 hours Total duration of treatment in adult patients: the combined duration of use of IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine and ketorolac tromethamine tablets is not to exceed 5 days. The following table summarizes ketorolac tromethamine tablets dosing instructions in terms of age group: Table 4 Summary of Dosing Instructions Patient Population Ketorolac tromethamine tablets (following IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine) Age <17 years Oral not approved Adult Age 17 to 64 years 20 mg once, then 10 mg q4-6 hours prn not >40 mg/day Adult Age ≥65 years, renally impaired, and/or weight <50 kg 10 mg once, then 10 mg q4-6 hours prn not >40 mg/day Transition from IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine (single- or multiple-dose) to multiple-dose ketorolac tromethamine tablets: Patients age 17 to 64: 20 mg PO once followed by 10 mg q4 to 6 hours prn not > 40 mg/day Patients age ≥ 65, renally impaired, and/or weight < 50 kg (110 lbs): 10 mg PO once followed by 10 mg q4 to 6 hours prn not > 40 mg/day Note: Oral formulation should not be given as an initial dose . Do not shorten dosing interval of 4 to 6 hours. Total duration of treatment in adult patients: the combined duration of use of IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine and ketorolac tromethamine tablets is not to exceed 5 days. The following table summarizes ketorolac tromethamine tablet dosing instructions in terms of age group: Table 4: Summary of Dosing Instructions Patient Population Ketorolac Tromethamine Tablets (following IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine) Age < 17 years Oral not approved Adult Age 17 to 64 years 20 mg once, then 10 mg q4 to 6 hours prn not > 40 mg/day Adult Age ≥ 65 years, renally impaired, and/or weight < 50 kg 10 mg once, then 10 mg q4 to 6 hours prn not > 40 mg/day Patients ≥ 65 years of age, renally impaired and/or less than 50 kg (110 lbs) of body weight: One dose of 30 mg. Patients ≥ 65 years of age, renally impaired and/or less than 50 kg (110 lbs) of body weight: One dose of 15 mg. For patients ≥ 65 years of age, renally impaired patients (see WARNINGS ), and patients less than 50 kg (110 lbs): The recommended dose is 15 mg ketorolac tromethamine injection every 6 hours. Transition from IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine (single- or multiple-dose) to multiple-dose ketorolac tromethamine tablets: Patients age 17 to 64: 20 mg PO once followed by 10 mg q4 to 6 hours prn not >40 mg/day Patients age ≥65, renally impaired, and/or weight <50 kg (110 lbs): 10 mg PO once followed by 10 mg q4 to 6 hours prn not >40 mg/day Note: Oral formulation should not be given as an initial dose Use minimum effective dose for the individual patient Do not shorten dosing interval of 4 to 6 hours Total duration of treatment in adult patients: the combined duration of use of IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine and ketorolac tromethamine tablets is not to exceed 5 days. The following table summarizes ketorolac tromethamine tablets dosing instructions in terms of age group: TABLE 4 Summary of Dosing Instructions Patient Population Ketorolac Tromethamine Tablets (following IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine) Age < 17 years Oral not approved Adult Age 17 to 64 years 20 mg once, then 10 mg q4 to 6 hours prn not > 40 mg/day Adult Age ≥ 65 years, renally impaired and/or weight <50 kg 10 mg once, then 10 mg q4 to 6 hours prn not > 40 mg/day
Warnings: WARNINGS (See also Boxed WARNING .) The total combined duration of use of oral ketorolac tromethamine and intravenous or intramuscular dosing of ketorolac tromethamine is not to exceed 5 days in adults. Ketorolac tromethamine is not indicated for use in pediatric patients. The most serious risks associated with ketorolac tromethamine are: Gastrointestinal Effects – Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding and Perforation: Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated in patients with previously documented peptic ulcers and/or gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding. Ketorolac tromethamine can cause serious GI adverse events including bleeding, ulceration and perforation, of the stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with ketorolac tromethamine. Only one in five patients who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic. Minor upper gastrointestinal problems, such as dyspepsia, are common and may also occur at any time during NSAID therapy. The incidence and severity of gastrointestinal complications increases with increasing dose of, and duration of treatment with ketorolac tromethamine. Do not use ketorolac tromethamine for more than five days. However, even short-term therapy is not without risk. In addition to past history of ulcer disease, other factors that increase the risk for GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include concomitant use of oral corticosteroids, or anticoagulants, longer duration of NSAID therapy, smoking, use of alcohol, older age, and poor general health status. Most spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in elderly or debilitated patients and therefore, special care should be taken in treating this population. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse GI event, the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest possible duration. Patients and physicians should remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during NSAID therapy and promptly initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious GI adverse event is suspected. This should include discontinuation of ketorolac tromethamine until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. For high risk patients, alternate therapies that do not involve NSAIDs should be considered. NSAIDs should be given with care to patients with a history of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease) as their condition may be exacerbated. Hemorrhage Because prostaglandins play an important role in hemostasis and NSAIDs affect platelet aggregation as well, use of ketorolac tromethamine in patients who have coagulation disorders should be undertaken very cautiously, and those patients should be carefully monitored. Patients on therapeutic doses of anticoagulants (e.g., heparin or dicumarol derivatives) have an increased risk of bleeding complications if given ketorolac tromethamine concurrently; therefore, physicians should administer such concomitant therapy only extremely cautiously. The concurrent use of ketorolac tromethamine and therapy that affects hemostasis, including prophylactic low-dose heparin (2500-5000 units q12h), warfarin and dextrans have not been studied extensively, but may also be associated with an increased risk of bleeding. Until data from such studies are available, physicians should carefully weigh the benefits against the risks, and use such concomitant therapy in these patients only extremely cautiously. Patients receiving therapy that affects hemostasis should be monitored closely. In postmarketing experience, postoperative hematomas and other signs of wound bleeding have been reported in association with the peri-operative use of intravenous or intramuscular dosing of ketorolac tromethamine. Therefore, peri-operative use of ketorolac tromethamine should be avoided and postoperative use be undertaken with caution when hemostasis is critical (see PRECAUTIONS ). Renal Effects Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of a NSAID may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics and ACE inhibitors, and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. Ketorolac tromethamine and its metabolites are eliminated primarily by the kidneys, which, in patients with reduced creatinine clearance, will result in diminished clearance of the drug (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Therefore, ketorolac tromethamine should be used with caution in patients with impaired renal function (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) and such patients should be followed closely. With the use of ketorolac tromethamine, there have been reports of acute renal failure, interstitial nephritis and nephrotic syndrome. Impaired Renal Function Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated in patients with serum creatinine concentrations indicating advanced renal impairment (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Ketorolac tromethamine should be used with caution in patients with impaired renal function or a history of kidney disease because it is a potent inhibitor of prostaglandin synthesis. Because patients with underlying renal insufficiency are at increased risk of developing acute renal decompensation or failure, the risks and benefits should be assessed prior to giving ketorolac tromethamine to these patients. Anaphylactoid Reactions As with other NSAIDs, anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without known prior exposure to ketorolac tromethamine. Ketorolac tromethamine should not be given to patients with the aspirin triad. This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS - Pre-existing Asthma ). Emergency help should be sought in cases where an anaphylactoid reaction occurs. Cardiovascular Effects Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, including myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke, which can be fatal. Based on available data, it is unclear that the risk for CV thrombotic events is similar for all NSAIDs. The relative increase in serious CV thrombotic events over baseline conferred by NSAID use appears to be similar in those with and without known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease. However, patients with known CV disease or risk factors had a higher absolute incidence of excess serious CV thrombotic events, due to their increased baseline rate. Some observational studies found that this increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events began as early as the first few weeks of treatment. The increase in CV thrombotic risk has been observed most consistently at higher doses. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in NSAID-treated patients, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, throughout the entire treatment course, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Patients should be informed about the symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as ketorolac tromethamine, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events (see WARNINGS ). Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery Two large, controlled clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10 to 14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. NSAIDs are contraindicated in the setting of CABG surgery (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Post-MI Patients Observational studies conducted in the Danish National Registry have demonstrated that patients treated with NSAIDs in the post-MI period were at increased risk of reinfarction, CV-related death, and all-cause mortality beginning in the first week of treatment. In this same cohort, the incidence of death in the first year post MI was 20 per 100 person years in NSAID-treated patients compared to 12 per 100 person years in non-NSAID exposed patients. Although the absolute rate of death declined somewhat after the first year post-MI, the increased relative risk of death in NSAID users persisted over at least the next four years follow-up. Avoid the use of ketorolac tromethamine in patients with a recent MI unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If ketorolac tromethamine is used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia. Hypertension NSAIDs, including ketorolac tromethamine, can lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of pre-existing hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Patients taking thiazides or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs. NSAIDs, including ketorolac tromethamine, should be used with caution in patients with hypertension. Blood pressure (BP) should be monitored closely during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy. Heart Failure and Edema The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists' Collaboration meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately two-fold increase in hospitalizations for heart failure in COX-2 selective-treated patients and nonselective NSAID-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. In a Danish National Registry study of patients with heart failure, NSAID use increased the risk of MI, hospitalization for heart failure, and death. Additionally, fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients treated with NSAIDs. Use of ketorolac tromethamine may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions (e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) (see DRUG INTERACTIONS ). Avoid the use of ketorolac tromethamine in patients with severe heart failure unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure. If ketorolac tromethamine is used in patients with severe heart failure, monitor patients for signs of worsening heart failure. Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including ketorolac tromethamine, can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. These serious events may occur without warning. Patients should be informed about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Pregnancy In late pregnancy, as with other NSAIDs, ketorolac tromethamine should be avoided because it may cause premature closure of the ductus arteriosus. WARNINGS (see also Boxed WARNING ) The total combined duration of use of oral ketorolac tromethamine and IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine is not to exceed 5 days in adults. The most serious risks associated with ketorolac tromethamine are: Gastrointestinal Effects - Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation: Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated in patients with previously documented peptic ulcers and/or gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding. Ketorolac tromethamine can cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including bleeding, ulceration and perforation, of the stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. The concurrent use of ketorolac tromethamine and therapy that affects hemostasis, including prophylactic low-dose heparin (2,500 to 5,000 units q12h), warfarin and dextrans have not been studied extensively, but may also be associated with an increased risk of bleeding. In postmarketing experience, postoperative hematomas and other signs of wound bleeding have been reported in association with the peri-operative use of IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine. This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS, Pre-existing Asthma ). Some observational studies found that this increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events began as early as the first weeks of treatment. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as ketorolac, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events (see WARNINGS ). NSAIDs are contraindicated in the setting of CABG (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Although the absolute rate of death declined somewhat after the first year post-MI, the increased relative risk of death in NSAID users persisted over at least the next four years of follow-up. Avoid the use of Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection, USP in patients with a recent MI unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection, USP is used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia. Use of ketorolac tromethamine may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions (e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs)) (see DRUG INTERACTIONS ). Avoid the use of Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection, USP in patients with severe heart failure unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure. If Ketorolac Tromethamine Injection, USP is used in patients with severe heart failure, monitor patients for signs of worsening heart failure. Drug Rash with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) has been reported in patients taking NSAIDs such as ketorolac tromethamine. Some of these events have been fatal or life-threatening. DRESS typically, although not exclusively, presents with fever, rash, lymphadenopathy, and/or facial swelling. Other clinical manifestations may include hepatitis, nephritis, hematological abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis. Sometimes symptoms of DRESS may resemble an acute viral infection. Eosinophilia is often present. Because this disorder is variable in its presentation, other organ systems not noted here may be involved. It is important to note that early manifestations of hypersensitivity, such as fever or lymphadenopathy, may be present even though rash is not evident. If such signs or symptoms are present, discontinue ketorolac tromethamine and evaluate the patient immediately. Fetal Toxicity Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus: Avoid use of NSAIDs, including ketorolac tromethamine, in pregnant women at about 30 weeks gestation and later. NSAIDs including ketorolac tromethamine, increase the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus at approximately this gestational age. Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment: Use of NSAIDs, including ketorolac tromethamine, at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy may cause fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios and, in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. These adverse outcomes are seen, on average, after days to weeks of treatment, although oligohydramnios has been infrequently reported as soon as 48 hours after NSAID initiation. Oligohydramnios is often, but not always, reversible with treatment discontinuation. Complications of prolonged oligohydramnios may, for example, include limb contractures and delayed lung maturation. In some postmarketing cases of impaired neonatal renal function, invasive procedures such as exchange transfusion or dialysis were required. If NSAID treatment is necessary between about 20 weeks and 30 weeks gestation, limit ketorolac tromethamine use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. Consider ultrasound monitoring of amniotic fluid if ketorolac tromethamine treatment extends beyond 48 hours. Discontinue ketorolac tromethamine if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice (see PRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy ). WARNINGS (See also Boxed WARNING ). The total combined duration of use of ketorolac tromethamine tablets and intravenous or intramuscular dosing of ketorolac tromethamine is not to exceed 5 days in adults. Ketorolac tromethamine tablets are not indicated for use in pediatric patients. The most serious risks associated with ketorolac tromethamine are: Gastrointestinal Effects – Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated in patients with previously documented peptic ulcers and/or GI bleeding. The incidence and severity of gastrointestinal complications increases with increasing dose of, and duration of treatment with, ketorolac tromethamine. For high-risk patients, alternate therapies that do not involve NSAIDs should be considered. The concurrent use of ketorolac tromethamine and therapy that affects hemostasis, including prophylactic low-dose heparin (2,500 units to 5,000 units q12h), warfarin and dextrans have not been studied extensively, but may also be associated with an increased risk of bleeding. Until data from such studies are available, physicians should carefully weigh the benefits against the risks and use such concomitant therapy in these patients only extremely cautiously. In post marketing experience, postoperative hematomas and other signs of wound bleeding have been reported in association with the peri-operative use of intravenous or intramuscular dosing of ketorolac tromethamine. Anaphylactoid Reactions As with other NSAIDs, anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without a known previous exposure or hypersensitivity to ketorolac tromethamine. This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS , Preexisting Asthma ). Anaphylactoid reactions, like anaphylaxis, may have a fatal outcome. Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery Two-large, controlled clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10 days to 14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. In this same cohort, the incidence of death in the first-year post MI was 20 per 100 person years in NSAID-treated patients compared to 12 per 100 person years in non-NSAID exposed patients. Although the absolute rate of death declined somewhat after the first-year post-MI, the increased relative risk of death in NSAID users persisted over at least the next four years of follow-up. Avoid the use of ketorolac tromethamine tablets in patients with a recent MI unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If ketorolac tromethamine tablets are used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia. Hypertension NSAIDs, including ketorolac tromethamine, can lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of preexisting hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Heart Failure and Edema The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists’ Collaboration meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately two-fold increase in hospitalizations for heart failure in COX-2 selective-treated patients and nonselective NSAID-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. Use of ketorolac tromethamine may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions [e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs)] (see DRUG INTERACTIONS ). Avoid the use of ketorolac tromethamine tablets in patients with severe heart failure unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure. If ketorolac tromethamine tablets are used in patients with severe heart failure, monitor patients for signs of worsening heart failure. Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including ketorolac tromethamine, can cause serious skin adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens‑Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. NSAIDs can also cause fixed drug eruption (FDE). FDE may present as a more severe variant known as generalized bullous fixed drug eruption (GBFDE), which can be life-threatening. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions, and to discontinue the use of ketorolac tromethamine tablets at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Ketorolac tromethamine tablets are contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) has been reported in patients taking NSAIDs such as ketorolac tromethamine tablets. If such signs or symptoms are present, discontinue ketorolac tromethamine tablets and evaluate the patient immediately. Fetal Toxicity Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus: Avoid use of NSAIDs, including ketorolac tromethamine tablets, in pregnant women at about 30 weeks gestation and later. NSAIDs including ketorolac tromethamine tablets, increase the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus at approximately this gestational age. Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment: Use of NSAIDs, including ketorolac tromethamine tablets, at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy may cause fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios and, in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. In some post marketing cases of impaired neonatal renal function, invasive procedures such as exchange transfusion or dialysis were required. If NSAID treatment is necessary between about 20 weeks and 30 weeks gestation, limit ketorolac tromethamine tablets use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. Consider ultrasound monitoring of amniotic fluid if ketorolac tromethamine tablets treatment extends beyond 48 hours. Discontinue ketorolac tromethamine tablets if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice (see PRECAUTIONS; Pregnancy ). WARNINGS (see also Boxed WARNING) The total combined duration of use of ketorolac tromethamine tablets and IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine is not to exceed 5 days in adults. The most serious risks associated with ketorolac tromethamine tablets are: Gastrointestinal Effects – Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated in patients with previously documented peptic ulcers and/or GI bleeding. NSAIDs should be given with care to patients with a history of inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis, Crohn’s disease) as their condition may be exacerbated. The concurrent use of ketorolac tromethamine and therapy that affects hemostasis, including prophylactic low-dose heparin (2500 to 5000 units q12h), warfarin and dextrans have not been studied extensively, but may also be associated with an increased risk of bleeding. This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS, Preexisting Asthma ). Based on available data, it is unclear that the risk for CV thrombotic events is similar for all NSAIDs.The relative increase in serious CV thrombotic events over baseline conferred by NSAID use appears to be similar in those with and without known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease. Patients should be informed about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash, mucosal lesions, or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Discontinue ketorolac tromethamine tablets if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice (see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy ). Gastrointestinal Effects – Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated in patients with previously documented peptic ulcers and/or GI bleeding. WARNINGS (See also Boxed WARNING .) The total combined duration of use of ketorolac tromethamine tablets and IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine is not to exceed 5 days in adults. Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including ketorolac tromethamine, can cause serious skin adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Discontinue ketorolac tromethamine tablets if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice (see PRECAUTIONS ; Pregnancy ). In these patients, administration of a NSAID may cause a dose- dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Post-MI Patients Observational studies conducted in the Danish National Registry have demonstrated that patients treated with NSAIDs in the post-MI period were at increased risk of reinfarction, CV-related death, and all- cause mortality beginning in the first week of treatment. Ketorolac tromethamine tablets is contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Some of these events have been fatal or life- threatening. Post–MI Patients Observational studies conducted in the Danish National Registry have demonstrated that patients treated with NSAIDs in the post-MI period were at increased risk of reinfarction, CV-related death, and all-cause mortality beginning in the first week of treatment. In a Danish National Registry study of patients with heart failure, NSAID use increased the risk of MI, hospitalization for heart failure and death. Use of ketorolac tromethamine may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions [e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs)] (see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ). Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) has been reported in patients taking NSAIDs such as ketorolac tromethamine. Fetal Toxicity Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus : Avoid use of NSAIDs, including ketorolac tromethamine, in pregnant women at about 30 weeks gestation and later. Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment : Use of NSAIDs, including ketorolac tromethamine, at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy may cause fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios and, in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. Discontinue ketorolac tromethamine if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice (see PRECAUTIONS – Pregnancy ). WARNINGS (see also BOXED WARNING) The total combined duration of use of ketorolac tromethamine-IV/IM and ketorolac tromethamine tablets is not to exceed 5 days in adults. The most serious risks associated with ketorolac tromethamine are: Gastrointestinal Effects – Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding and Perforation Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated in patients with previously documented peptic ulcers and/or GI bleeding. Ketorolac tromethamine can cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including bleeding, ulceration and perforation, of the stomach, small intestine or large intestine, which can be fatal. Do not use ketorolac tromethamine for more than 5 days. In addition to past history of ulcer disease, other factors that increase the risk for GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include concomitant use of oral corticosteroids, or anticoagulants, longer duration of NSAID therapy, smoking, use of alcohol, older age and poor general health status. In post-marketing experience, postoperative hematomas and other signs of wound bleeding have been reported in association with the perioperative use of IV or IM dosing of ketorolac tromethamine. Therefore, perioperative use of ketorolac tromethamine should be avoided and postoperative use be undertaken with caution when hemostasis is critical (see PRECAUTIONS ). This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS: Preexisting Asthma ). Cardiovascular Effects Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to 3 years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, including myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke, which can be fatal. Although the absolute rate of death declined somewhat after the first year post-MI, the increased relative risk of death in NSAID users persisted over at least the next 4 years of follow-up. Heart Failure and Edema The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists' Collaboration meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately 2-fold increase in hospitalizations for heart failure in COX-2 selective-treated patients and nonselective NSAID-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including ketorolac tromethamine, can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Patients should be informed about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash, mucosal lesions or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Discontinue ketorolac tromethamine if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice (see PRECAUTIONS; Pregnancy ).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS (see also Boxed WARNING ) Ketorolac Tromethamine is contraindicated in patients with previously demonstrated hypersensitivity to ketorolac tromethamine. Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated in patients with active peptic ulcer disease, in patients with recent gastrointestinal bleeding or perforation and in patients with a history of peptic ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding. Ketorolac tromethamine should not be given to patients who have experienced asthma, urticaria, or allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, rarely fatal, anaphylactic-like reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients (see WARNINGS – Anaphylactoid Reactions , and PRECAUTIONS – Pre-existing Asthma ). Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated as prophylactic analgesic before any major surgery. In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery (see WARNINGS ). Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated in patients with advanced renal impairment or in patients at risk for renal failure due to volume depletion (see WARNINGS for correction of volume depletion). Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated in labor and delivery because, through its prostaglandin synthesis inhibitory effect, it may adversely affect fetal circulation and inhibit uterine musculature, thus increasing the risk of uterine hemorrhage. Ketorolac tromethamine inhibits platelet function and is, therefore, contraindicated in patients with suspected or confirmed cerebrovascular bleeding, hemorrhagic diathesis, incomplete hemostasis and those at high risk of bleeding (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ). Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated in patients currently receiving aspirin or NSAIDs because of the cumulative risks of inducing serious NSAID-related adverse events. The concomitant use of ketorolac tromethamine and probenecid is contraindicated. The concomitant use of ketorolac tromethamine and pentoxifylline is contraindicated. Ketorolac tromethamine injection is contraindicated for neuraxial (epidural or intrathecal) administration due to its alcohol content. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ketorolac tromethamine ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with previously demonstrated hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients in the formulation. Hypersensitivity to any component of this product. (4) Severe, rarely fatal, anaphylactic-like reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients (see WARNINGS, Anaphylactoid Reactions , and PRECAUTIONS, Pre-existing Asthma ). Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery (see WARNINGS ). CONTRAINDICATIONS (See also Boxed WARNING ). Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated in patients with previously demonstrated hypersensitivity to ketorolac tromethamine. Severe, rarely fatal, anaphylactic-like reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients (see WARNINGS , Anaphylactoid Reactions , and PRECAUTIONS , Preexisting Asthma ). Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated in labor and delivery because, through its prostaglandin synthesis inhibitory effect, it may adversely affect fetal circulation and inhibit uterine contractions, thus increasing the risk of uterine hemorrhage. CONTRAINDICATIONS (see also Boxed WARNING) Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated in patients with previously demonstrated hypersensitivity to ketorolac tromethamine. Severe, rarely fatal, anaphylactic-like reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients (see WARNINGS, Anaphylactoid Reactions, and PRECAUTIONS, Preexisting Asthma ). CONTRAINDICATIONS (See also Boxed WARNING .) Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated in patients with previously demonstrated hypersensitivity to ketorolac tromethamine. Severe, rarely fatal, anaphylactic-like reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients (see WARNINGS , Anaphylactoid Reactions and PRECAUTIONS , Preexisting Asthma ). Severe, rarely fatal, anaphylactic-like reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients (see WARNINGS, Anaphylactoid Reactions and PRECAUTIONS, Preexisting Asthma ) Ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated as prophylactic analgesic before any major surgery. CONTRAINDICATIONS (see also BOXED WARNING) Ketorolac tromethamine tablets are contraindicated in patients with previously demonstrated hypersensitivity to ketorolac tromethamine. Ketorolac tromethamine tablets are contraindicated in patients with active peptic ulcer disease, in patients with recent gastrointestinal bleeding or perforation, and in patients with a history of peptic ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding. Ketorolac tromethamine tablets should not be given to patients who have experienced asthma, urticaria or allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, rarely fatal, anaphylactic-like reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients (see WARNINGS: Anaphylactoid Reactions and PRECAUTIONS: Preexisting Asthma). Ketorolac tromethamine tablets are contraindicated as prophylactic analgesic before any major surgery. Ketorolac tromethamine tablets are contraindicated in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery (see WARNINGS ).
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Ketorolac is highly bound to human plasma protein (mean 99.2%). There is no evidence in animal or human studies that ketorolac tromethamine induces or inhibits hepatic enzymes capable of metabolizing itself or other drugs. Warfarin, Digoxin, Salicylate, and Heparin The in vitro binding of warfarin to plasma proteins is only slightly reduced by ketorolac tromethamine (99.5% control vs 99.3%) when ketorolac plasma concentrations reach 5 mcg/mL to 10 mcg/mL. Ketorolac does not alter digoxin protein binding. In vitro studies indicate that, at therapeutic concentrations of salicylate (300 mcg/mL), the binding of ketorolac was reduced from approximately 99.2% to 97.5%, representing a potential twofold increase in unbound ketorolac plasma levels. Therapeutic concentrations of digoxin , warfarin , ibuprofen , naproxen , piroxicam , acetaminophen , phenytoin and tolbutamide did not alter ketorolac tromethamine protein binding. In a study involving 12 adult volunteers, ketorolac tromethamine tablets were co-administered with a single dose of 25 mg warfarin , causing no significant changes in pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of warfarin. In another study, ketorolac tromethamine dosed intravenous or intramuscular was given with two doses of 5,000 U of heparin to 11 healthy volunteers, resulting in a mean template bleeding time of 6.4 minutes (3.2 min to 11.4 min) compared to a mean of 6 minutes (3.4 min to 7.5 min) for heparin alone and 5.1 minutes (3.5 min to 8.5 min) for placebo. Although these results do not indicate a significant interaction between ketorolac tromethamine and warfarin or heparin, the administration of ketorolac tromethamine to patients taking anticoagulants should be done extremely cautiously, and patients should be closely monitored (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS , Hematologic Effect ). The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs, in general, on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that the users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than the users of either drug alone. Aspirin When ketorolac tromethamine is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free ketorolac tromethamine is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of ketorolac tromethamine and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that ketorolac tromethamine can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS , Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Probenecid Concomitant administration of ketorolac tromethamine tablets and probenecid resulted in decreased clearance and volume of distribution of ketorolac and significant increases in ketorolac plasma levels (total AUC increased approximately threefold from 5.4 mcg/h/mL to 17.8 mcg/h/mL) and terminal half-life increased approximately twofold from 6.6 hours to 15.1 hours. Therefore, concomitant use of ketorolac tromethamine and probenecid is contraindicated. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. ACE Inhibitors/Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonists Concomitant use of ACE inhibitors and/or angiotensin II receptor antagonists may increase the risk of renal impairment, particularly in volume-depleted patients. Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors and/or angiotensin II receptor antagonists. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE inhibitors and/or angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Antiepileptic Drugs Sporadic cases of seizures have been reported during concomitant use of ketorolac tromethamine and antiepileptic drugs (phenytoin, carbamazepine). Psychoactive Drugs Hallucinations have been reported when ketorolac tromethamine was used in patients taking psychoactive drugs (fluoxetine, thiothixene, alprazolam). Pentoxifylline When ketorolac tromethamine is administered concurrently with pentoxifylline, there is an increased tendency to bleeding. Nondepolarizing Muscle Relaxants In post marketing experience there have been reports of a possible interaction between ketorolac tromethamine intravenous/intramuscular and nondepolarizing muscle relaxants that resulted in apnea. The concurrent use of ketorolac tromethamine with muscle relaxants has not been formally studied. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) There is an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are combined with NSAIDs. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with SSRIs. Warfarin, Digoxin, Salicylate, and Heparin The in vitro binding of warfarin to plasma proteins is only slightly reduced by ketorolac tromethamine (99.5% control vs 99.3%) when ketorolac plasma concentrations reach 5 to 10 mcg/mL. Therapeutic concentrations of digoxin, warfarin, ibuprofen, naproxen, piroxicam, acetaminophen, phenytoin and tolbutamide did not alter ketorolac tromethamine protein binding. In a study involving 12 adult volunteers, ketorolac tromethamine tablets were coadministered with a single dose of 25 mg warfarin , causing no significant changes in pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of warfarin. In another study, ketorolac tromethamine dosed IV or IM was given with two doses of 5000 U of heparin to 11 healthy volunteers, resulting in a mean template bleeding time of 6.4 minutes (3.2 to 11.4 min) compared to a mean of 6.0 minutes (3.4 to 7.5 min) for heparin alone and 5.1 minutes (3.5 to 8.5 min) for placebo. Although these results do not indicate a significant interaction between ketorolac tromethamine and warfarin or heparin, the administration of ketorolac tromethamine to patients taking anticoagulants should be done extremely cautiously, and patients should be closely monitored (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS, Hematologic Effect ). Aspirin When ketorolac tromethamineis administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free ketorolac tromethamine is not altered. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that ketorolac tromethamine can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Probenecid Concomitant administration of ketorolac tromethamine tablets and probenecid resulted in decreased clearance and volume of distribution of ketorolac and significant increases in ketorolac plasma levels (total AUC increased approximately threefold from 5.4 to 17.8 mcg/h/mL) and terminal half-life increased approximately twofold from 6.6 to 15.1 hours. Nondepolarizing Muscle Relaxants In postmarketing experience there have been reports of a possible interaction between ketorolac tromethamine IV/IM and nondepolarizing muscle relaxants that resulted in apnea. In another study, ketorolac tromethamine dosed IV or IM was given with two doses of 5000 U of heparin to 11 healthy volunteers, resulting in a mean template bleeding time of 6.4 minutes (3.2 to 11.4 min) compared to a mean of 6 minutes (3.4 to 7.5 min) for heparin alone and 5.1 minutes (3.5 to 8.5 min) for placebo. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility An 18 month study in mice with oral doses of ketorolac tromethamine at 2 mg/kg/day (0.9 times the human systemic exposure at the recommended IM or IV dose of 30 mg qid, based on area-under-the- plasma-concentration curve [AUC]), and a 24 month study in rats at 5 mg/kg/day (0.5 times the human AUC) showed no evidence of tumorigenicity. Ketorolac tromethamine was not mutagenic in the Ames test, unscheduled DNA synthesis and repair, and in forward mutation assays. Ketorolac tromethamine did not cause chromosome breakage in the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay. At 1590 mcg/mL and at higher concentrations, ketorolac tromethamine increased the incidence of chromosomal aberrations in Chinese hamster ovarian cells. Impairment of fertility did not occur in male or female rats at oral doses of 9 mg/kg (0.9 times the human AUC) and 16 mg/kg (1.6 times the human AUC) of ketorolac tromethamine, respectively. Pregnancy Risk Summary Use of NSAIDs, including ketorolac tromethamine tablets, can cause premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus and fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios and, in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. Because of these risks, limit dose and duration of ketorolac tromethamine tablets use between about 20 and 30 weeks of gestation, and avoid ketorolac tromethamine tablets use at about 30 weeks of gestation and later in pregnancy (see WARNINGS ; Fetal Toxicity). Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus Use of NSAIDs, including ketorolac tromethamine tablets, at about 30 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy increases the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus. Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment Use of NSAIDs at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy has been associated with cases of fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios, and in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. Data from observational studies regarding other potential embryofetal risks of NSAID use in women in the first or second trimesters of pregnancy are inconclusive. Animal reproduction studies have been performed during organogenesis using daily oral doses of ketorolac tromethamine at 3.6 mg/kg (0.37 times the human AUC) in rabbits and at 10 mg/kg (1 times the human AUC) in rats. Results of these studies did not reveal evidence of teratogenicity to the fetus. However, animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response. Based on animal data, prostaglandins have been shown to have an important role in endometrial vascular permeability, blastocyst implantation, and decidualization. In animal studies, administration of prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors such as ketorolac tromethamine, resulted in increased pre- and post-implantation loss. Prostaglandins also have been shown to have an important role in fetal kidney development. In published animal studies, prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors have been reported to impair kidney development when administered at clinically relevant doses. The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population(s) is unknown. All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect, loss, or other adverse outcomes. In the U.S. general population the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4% and 15 to 20% respectively. Clinical Considerations Fetal/Neonatal Adverse Reactions Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus: Avoid use of NSAIDs in women at about 30 weeks gestation and later in pregnancy, because NSAIDs, including ketorolac tromethamine tablets, can cause premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus (see WARNINGS ; Fetal Toxicity). Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment If an NSAID is necessary at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy, limit the use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. If ketorolac tromethamine tablets treatment extends beyond 48 hours, consider monitoring with ultrasound for oligohydramnios. If oligohydramnios occurs, discontinue ketorolac tromethamine tablets and follow up according to clinical practice (see WARNINGS ; Fetal Toxicity). Data Human Data Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus: Published literature reports that the use of NSAIDs at about 30 weeks of gestation and later in pregnancy may cause premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus. Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment: Published studies and postmarketing reports describe maternal NSAID use at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy associated with fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios, and in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. These adverse outcomes are seen, on average, after days to weeks of treatment, although oligohydramnios has been infrequently reported as soon as 48 hours after NSAID initiation. In many cases, but not all, the decrease in amniotic fluid was transient and reversible with cessation of the drug. There have been a limited number of case reports of maternal NSAID use and neonatal renal dysfunction without oligohydramnios, some of which were irreversible. Some cases of neonatal renal dysfunction required treatment with invasive procedures, such as exchange transfusion or dialysis. Methodological limitations of these postmarketing studies and reports include lack of a control group; limited information regarding dose, duration, and timing of drug exposure; and concomitant use of other medications. These limitations preclude establishing a reliable estimate of the risk of adverse fetal and neonatal outcomes with maternal NSAID use. Because the published safety data on neonatal outcomes involved mostly preterm infants, the generalizability of certain reported risks to the full-term infant exposed to NSAIDs through maternal use is uncertain. Animal Data Because of the known effects of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs on the fetal cardiovascular system (closure of ductus arteriosus), use during pregnancy (particularly late pregnancy) should be avoided. Oral doses of ketorolac tromethamine at 1.5 mg/kg (0.14 times the human AUC), administered after gestation Day 17, caused dystocia and higher pup mortality in rats. Labor and Delivery The use of ketorolac tromethamine is contraindicated in labor and delivery because, through its prostaglandin synthesis inhibitory effect, it may adversely affect fetal circulation and inhibit uterine contractions, thus increasing the risk of uterine hemorrhage (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Effects on Fertility The use of ketorolac tromethamine, as with any drug known to inhibit cyclooxygenase/prostaglandin synthesis, may impair fertility and is not recommended in women attempting to conceive. In women who have difficulty conceiving or are undergoing investigation of infertility, withdrawal of ketorolac tromethamine should be considered. Nursing Mothers Limited data from one published study involving 10 breastfeeding women 2 to 6 days postpartum showed low levels of ketorolac in breast milk. Levels were undetectable (less than 5 ng/mL) in 4 of the patients. After a single administration of 10 mg of ketorolac tromethamine tablets, the maximum milk concentration observed was 7.3 ng/mL, and the maximum milk-to-plasma ratio was 0.037. After 1 day of dosing (10 mg every 6 hours), the maximum milk concentration was 7.9 ng/mL, and the maximum milk-to- plasma ratio was 0.025. Assuming a daily intake of 400 to 1,000 mL of human milk per day and a maternal body weight of 60 kg, the calculated maximum daily infant exposure was 0.00263 mg/kg/day, which is 0.4% of the maternal weight-adjusted dose. Exercise caution when ketorolac is administered to a nursing woman. Available information has not shown any specific adverse events in nursing infants; however, instruct patients to contact their infant's health care provider if they note any adverse events. Pediatric Use Ketorolac tromethamine tablets are not indicated for use in pediatric patients. The safety and effectiveness of ketorolac tromethamine tablets in pediatric patients below the age of 17 have not been established. Geriatric Use (≥ 65 Years of Age) Because ketorolac tromethamine may be cleared more slowly by the elderly (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) who are also more sensitive to the dose-related adverse effects of NSAIDs (see WARNINGS , Gastrointestinal Effects – Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation ), extreme caution, reduced dosages (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ), and careful clinical monitoring must be used when treating the elderly with ketorolac tromethamine. Geriatric Use (≥ 65 Years of Age) Because ketorolac tromethamine may be cleared more slowly by the elderly (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) who are also more sensitive to the dose-related adverse effects of NSAIDs (see WARNINGS , G astrointestinal Effects – Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation ), extreme caution, reduced dosages (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ), and careful clinical monitoring must be used when treating the elderly with ketorolac tromethamine.

=== FUROSEMIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose First Aid Antiseptic
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Edema Furosemide tablets are indicated in adults and pediatric patients for the treatment of edema associated with congestive heart failure, cirrhosis of the liver, and renal disease, including the nephrotic syndrome. Furosemide tablets are particularly useful when an agent with greater diuretic potential is desired. Hypertension Oral furosemide may be used in adults for the treatment of hypertension alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. Hypertensive patients who cannot be adequately controlled with thiazides will probably also not be adequately controlled with furosemide alone. Edema Furosemide tablets are indicated in adults and pediatric patients for the treatment of edema associated with congestive heart failure, cirrhosis of the liver, and renal disease, including the nephrotic syndrome. Use First aid antiseptic to help prevent the risk of infection in minor cuts, scrapes and burns 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Furosemide Injection is a loop diuretic indicated for: • The treatment of edema associated with heart failure, cirrhosis of the liver, and renal disease ( 1.1 ) • Acute pulmonary edema as adjunctive therapy ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Edema Furosemide Injection is indicated in adults and pediatric patients for the treatment of edema associated with heart failure, cirrhosis of the liver, and renal disease, including the nephrotic syndrome. 1.2 Acute Pulmonary Edema Furosemide Injection is indicated as adjunctive therapy in acute pulmonary edema. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Parenteral therapy should be reserved for patients unable to take oral medication or for patients in emergency clinical situations. Edema: Furosemide is indicated in adults and pediatric patients for the treatment of edema associated with congestive heart failure, cirrhosis of the liver, and renal disease, including the nephrotic syndrome. Furosemide is particularly useful when an agent with greater diuretic potential is desired. Furosemide is indicated as adjunctive therapy in acute pulmonary edema. The intravenous administration of furosemide is indicated when a rapid onset of diuresis is desired, e.g., in acute pulmonary edema. If gastrointestinal absorption is impaired or oral medication is not practical for any reason, furosemide is indicated by the intravenous or intramuscular route. Parenteral use should be replaced with oral furosemide as soon as practical. Hypertension Furosemide tablets may be used in adults for the treatment of hypertension alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. Hypertension Oral Furosemide tablets may be used in adults for the treatment of hypertension alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. Hypertensive patients who cannot be adequately controlled with thiazides will probably also not be adequately controlled with Furosemide tablets alone.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Edema Therapy should be individualized according to patient response to gain maximal therapeutic response and to determine the minimal dose needed to maintain that response. Adults: The usual initial dose of furosemide tablets is 20 to 80 mg given as a single dose. Ordinarily a prompt diuresis ensues. If needed, the same dose can be administered 6 to 8 hours later or the dose may be increased. The dose may be raised by 20 or 40 mg and given not sooner than 6 to 8 hours after the previous dose until the desired diuretic effect has been obtained. The individually determined single dose should then be given once or twice daily (e.g., at 8 am and 2 pm). The dose of furosemide tablets may be carefully titrated up to 600 mg/day in patients with clinically severe edematous states. Edema may be most efficiently and safely mobilized by giving furosemide tablets on 2 to 4 consecutive days each week. When doses exceeding 80 mg/day are given for prolonged periods, careful clinical observation and laboratory monitoring are particularly advisable (see PRECAUTIONS: Laboratory Tests ). Geriatric Patients: In general, dose selection for the elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range (see PRECAUTIONS: Geriatric Use ). Pediatric Patients: The usual initial dose of oral furosemide in pediatric patients is 2 mg/kg body weight, given as a single dose. If the diuretic response is not satisfactory after the initial dose, dosage may be increased by 1 or 2 mg/kg no sooner than 6 to 8 hours after the previous dose. Doses greater than 6 mg/kg body weight are not recommended. For maintenance therapy in pediatric patients, the dose should be adjusted to the minimum effective level. Hypertension Therapy should be individualized according to the patient's response to gain maximal therapeutic response and to determine the minimal dose needed to maintain the therapeutic response. Adults: The usual initial dose of furosemide tablets for hypertension is 80 mg, usually divided into 40 mg twice a day. Dosage should then be adjusted according to response. If response is not satisfactory, add other antihypertensive agents. Changes in blood pressure must be carefully monitored when furosemide tablets are used with other antihypertensive drugs, especially during initial therapy. To prevent excessive drop in blood pressure, the dosage of other agents should be reduced by at least 50 percent when furosemide tablets are added to the regimen. As the blood pressure falls under the potentiating effect of furosemide tablets, a further reduction in dosage or even discontinuation of other antihypertensive drugs may be necessary. Geriatric Patients: In general, dose selection and dose adjustment for the elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range (see PRECAUTIONS: Geriatric Use ). Edema Therapy should be individualized according to patient response to gain maximal therapeutic response and to determine the minimal dose needed to maintain that response. Adults - The usual initial dose of furosemide tablets is 20 to 80 mg given as a single dose. Geriatric Patients - In general, dose selection for the elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range (see PRECAUTIONS: Geriatric Use ). Pediatric Patients - The usual initial dose of oral furosemide in pediatric patients is 2 mg/kg body weight, given as a single dose. Adults - The usual initial dose of furosemide tablets for hypertension is 80 mg, usually divided into 40 mg twice a day. Geriatric Patients - In general, dose selection and dose adjustment for the elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range (see PRECAUTIONS: Geriatric Use ). Directions • Tear open packet • Unfold and clean the affected area • Discard after single use 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Edema : • Initial dose is 20 mg to 40 mg once given intramuscularly or intravenously. The intravenous dose should be administered slowly over 1 minute to 2 minutes ( 2.2 ) • If needed, a second dose may be administered 2 hours after the first dose ( 2.2 ) Acute Pulmonary Edema : • Initial dose is 40 mg injected slowly intravenously over 1 minute to 2 minutes ( 2.2 ) • If needed, a second dose is 80 mg injected intravenously slowly in 1 minute to 2 minutes ( 2.2 ) Pediatric Dosage : • The initial dose in pediatric patients is 1 mg/kg body weight once given slowly intramuscularly or intravenously. If needed, dosage may be increased by 1 mg/kg not sooner than 2 hours after the previous dose, until the desired diuretic effect has been obtained. Doses greater than 6 mg/kg body weight are not recommended ( 2.3 ) 2.1 General Considerations Inspect Furosemide Injection visually for particulate matter and discoloration before administration. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Adults Edema Individualize therapy according to patient response. The usual initial dose of furosemide is 20 mg to 40 mg given as a single-dose, injected intramuscularly or intravenously. Give the intravenous dose slowly (over 1 minute to 2 minutes). If needed, administer another dose in the same manner 2 hours later or increase the dose. The dose may be raised by 20 mg and administered not sooner than 2 hours after the previous dose until the desired diuretic effect has been obtained. Administer this individually determined single-dose once or twice daily. If the physician elects to use high-dose parenteral therapy, add the furosemide to either 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection USP, Lactated Ringer's Injection USP, or Dextrose Injection 5%, USP, after pH has been adjusted to above 5.5, and administer as a controlled intravenous infusion at a rate not greater than 4 mg/min. Furosemide Injection is a buffered alkaline solution with a pH of about 9 and the drug may precipitate at pH values below 7. Care must be taken to ensure that the pH of the prepared infusion solution is in the weakly alkaline to neutral range. Acid solutions, including other parenteral medications (e.g., labetalol, ciprofloxacin, amrinone, milrinone) must not be administered concurrently in the same infusion because they may cause precipitation of the furosemide. Acute Pulmonary Edema The usual initial dose of furosemide is 40 mg injected slowly intravenously (over 1 minute to 2 minutes). If a satisfactory response does not occur within 1 hour, increase the dose to 80 mg injected slowly intravenously (over 1 minute to 2 minutes). 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Pediatric Patients The usual initial dose of Furosemide Injection (intravenously or intramuscularly) in pediatric patients is 1 mg/kg body weight administered slowly (over 1 minute to 2 minutes). If the diuretic response to the initial dose is not satisfactory, dosage may be increased by 1 mg/kg not sooner than 2 hours after the previous dose, until the desired diuretic effect has been obtained. The maximum dose for premature infants should not exceed 1 mg/kg/day [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults Parenteral therapy with Furosemide Injection should be used only in patients unable to take oral medication or in emergency situations and should be replaced with oral therapy as soon as practical. Edema The usual initial dose of furosemide is 20 to 40 mg given as a single dose, injected intramuscularly or intravenously. The intravenous dose should be given slowly (1 to 2 minutes). If needed, another dose may be administered in the same manner 2 hours later or the dose may be increased. The dose may be raised by 20 mg and given not sooner than 2 hours after the previous dose until the desired diuretic effect has been obtained. This individually determined single dose should then be given once or twice daily. Therapy should be individualized according to patient response to gain maximal therapeutic response and to determine the minimal dose needed to maintain that response. Close medical supervision is necessary. When furosemide is given for prolonged periods, careful clinical observation and laboratory monitoring are particularly advisable. (See PRECAUTIONS: Laboratory Tests .) If the physician elects to use high dose parenteral therapy, add the furosemide to either Sodium Chloride Injection USP, Lactated Ringer's Injection USP, or Dextrose (5%) Injection USP after pH has been adjusted to above 5.5, and administer as a controlled intravenous infusion at a rate not greater than 4 mg/min Furosemide Injection is a buffered alkaline solution with a pH of about 9 and drug may precipitate at pH values below 7. In addition, furosemide injection should not be added to a running intravenous line containing any of these acidic products. Acute Pulmonary Edema The usual initial dose of furosemide is 40 mg injected slowly intravenously (over 1 to 2 minutes). If a satisfactory response does not occur within 1 hour, the dose may be increased to 80 mg injected slowly intravenously (over 1 to 2 minutes). If necessary, additional therapy (e.g., digitalis, oxygen) may be administered concomitantly Geriatric Patients In general, dose selection for the elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range. (See PRECAUTIONS: Geriatric Use .) Pediatric Patients Parenteral therapy should be used only in patients unable to take oral medication or in emergency situations and should be replaced with oral therapy as soon as practical. The usual initial dose of Furosemide Injection (intravenously or intramuscularly) in pediatric patients is 1 mg/kg body weight and should be given slowly under close medical supervision. Literature reports suggest that the maximum dose for premature infants should not exceed 1 mg/kg/day. (See WARNINGS, Pediatric Use .) Furosemide Injection should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration before administration. Since the vials are for single-dose only, any unused portion remaining in the vial should be discarded. (See PRECAUTIONS: Laboratory Tests .) If the physician elects to use high dose parenteral therapy, add the furosemide to either Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP, or Dextrose (5%) Injection, USP after pH has been adjusted to above 5.5, and administer as a controlled intravenous infusion at a rate not greater than 4 mg/min. Furosemide Injection is a buffered alkaline solution with a pH of about 9 and drug may precipitate at pH values below 7. If necessary, additional therapy (e.g., digitalis, oxygen) may be administered concomitantly. Geriatric Patients In general, dose selection for the elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range. Adults -- The usual initial dose of furosemide tablets is 20 mg to 80 mg given as a single dose. The dose may be raised by 20 mg or 40 mg and given not sooner than 6 to 8 hours after the previous dose until the desired diuretic effect has been obtained. Geriatric patients -- In general, dose selection for the elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range (see PRECAUTIONS: Geriatric Use ). Pediatric patients -- The usual initial dose of furosemide tablets in pediatric patients is 2 mg/kg body weight, given as a single dose. Adults -- The usual initial dose of furosemide tablets for hypertension is 80 mg, usually divided into 40 mg twice a day. To prevent excessive drop in blood pressure, the dosage of other agents should be reduced by at least 50% when furosemide tablets are added to the regimen. Geriatric patients -- In general, dose selection and dose adjustment for the elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range (see PRECAUTIONS: Geriatric Use ). Adults --The usual initial dose of furosemide is 20 mg to 80 mg given as a single dose. The dose of furosemide may be carefully titrated up to 600 mg/day in patients with clinically severe edematous states. Edema may be most efficiently and safely mobilized by giving furosemide on 2 to 4 consecutive days each week. When doses exceeding 80 mg/day are given for prolonged periods, careful clinical observation and laboratory monitoring are particularly advisable (see PRECAUTIONS : Laboratory Test). Geriatric patients --In general, dose selection for the elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range (see PRECAUTIONS : Geriatric Use). Pediatric patients --The usual initial dose of oral furosemide in pediatric patients is 2 mg/kg body weight, given as a single dose. Adults --The usual initial dose of furosemide for hypertension is 80mg, usually divided into 40mg twice a day. Changes in blood pressure must be carefully monitored when furosemide is used with other antihypertensive drugs, especially during initial therapy. To prevent excessive drop in blood pressure, the dosage of other agents should be reduced by at least 50% when furosemide is added to the regimen. As the blood pressure falls under the potentiating effect of furosemide, a further reduction in dosage or even discontinuation of other antihypertensive drugs may be necessary. Geriatric patients --In general, dose selection and dose adjustment for the elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range (see PRECAUTIONS : Geriatric Use). Adults The usual initial dose of Furosemide tablets is 20 to 80 mg given as a single dose. The individually determined single dose should then be given once or twice daily (eg, at 8 am and 2 pm). When doses exceeding 80 mg/day are given for prolonged periods, careful clinical observation and laboratory monitoring are particularly advisable. (See PRECAUTIONS: Laboratory Tests. ) Geriatric patients In general, dose selection for the elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range (see PRECAUTIONS: Geriatric Use ). Pediatric patients The usual initial dose of oral Furosemide tablets in pediatric patients is 2 mg/kg body weight, given as a single dose. Adults The usual initial dose of Furosemide tablets for hypertension is 80 mg, usually divided into 40 mg twice a day. Geriatric patients In general, dose selection and dose adjustment for the elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range (see PRECAUTIONS: Geriatric Use ).
Warnings: WARNING Furosemide is a potent diuretic which, if given in excessive amounts, can lead to a profound diuresis with water and electrolyte depletion. Therefore, careful medical supervision is required and dose and dose schedule must be adjusted to the individual patient's needs (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). WARNINGS In patients with hepatic cirrhosis and ascites, furosemide therapy is best initiated in the hospital. In hepatic coma and in states of electrolyte depletion, therapy should not be instituted until the basic condition is improved. Sudden alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance in patients with cirrhosis may precipitate hepatic coma; therefore, strict observation is necessary during the period of diuresis. Supplemental potassium chloride and, if required, an aldosterone antagonist are helpful in preventing hypokalemia and metabolic alkalosis. If increasing azotemia and oliguria occur during treatment of severe progressive renal disease, furosemide should be discontinued. Cases of tinnitus and reversible or irreversible hearing impairment and deafness have been reported. Reports usually indicate that furosemide ototoxicity is associated with rapid injection, severe renal impairment, the use of higher than recommended doses, hypoproteinemia or concomitant therapy with aminoglycoside antibiotics, ethacrynic acid, or other ototoxic drugs. If the physician elects to use high dose parenteral therapy, controlled intravenous infusion is advisable (for adults, an infusion rate not exceeding 4 mg furosemide per minute has been used) (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Warnings For external use only. For Professional and Hospital use only. Do not • use in the eyes • apply over large areas of the body. Consult a doctor in case of deep or puncture wounds, animal bites, or serious burns. Stop use and consult a doctor if the condition persists or gets worse. Do not use longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. If the physician elects to use high dose parenteral therapy, controlled intravenous infusion is advisable (for adults, an infusion rate not exceeding 4 mg furosemide per minute has been used). (See PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions . ) Pediatric Use: In premature neonates with respiratory distress syndrome, diuretic treatment with furosemide in the first few weeks of life may increase the risk of persistent patent ductus arteriosus (PDA), possibly through a prostaglandin-E-mediated process. Literature reports indicate that premature infants with post conceptual age (gestational plus postnatal) less than 31 weeks receiving doses exceeding 1 mg/kg/24 hours may develop plasma levels which could be associated with potential toxic effects including ototoxicity. Hearing loss in neonates has been associated with the use of furosemide injection (see WARNINGS , above). WARNINGS In patients with hepatic cirrhosis and ascites, furosemide tablets therapy is best initiated in the hospital. If increasing azotemia and oliguria occur during treatment of severe progressive renal disease, furosemide tablets should be discontinued. If the physician elects to use high dose parenteral therapy, controlled intravenous infusion is advisable (for adults, an infusion rate not exceeding 4 mg furosemide per minute has been used) (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ) . Reports usually indicate that Furosemide tablets ototoxicity is associated with rapid injection, severe renal impairment, the use of higher than recommended doses, hypoproteinemia or concomitant therapy with aminoglycoside antibiotics, ethacrynic acid, or other ototoxic drugs. If the physician elects to use high dose parenteral therapy, controlled intravenous infusion is advisable (for adults, an infusion rate not exceeding 4 mg Furosemide tablets per minute has been used). (See PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions)
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Furosemide tablets are contraindicated in patients with anuria and in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to furosemide. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Furosemide Injection is contraindicated in patients with anuria. • Furosemide Injection is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to furosemide. • Anuria ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to furosemide ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Furosemide is contraindicated in patients with anuria and in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to furosemide.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Furosemide may increase the ototoxic potential of aminoglycoside antibiotics, especially in the presence of impaired renal function. Except in life-threatening situations, avoid this combination. Furosemide should not be used concomitantly with ethacrynic acid because of the possibility of ototoxicity. Patients receiving high doses of salicylates concomitantly with furosemide, as in rheumatic disease, may experience salicylate toxicity at lower doses because of competitive renal excretory sites. There is a risk of ototoxic effects if cisplatin and furosemide are given concomitantly. In addition, nephrotoxicity of nephrotoxic drugs such as cisplatin may be enhanced if furosemide is not given in lower doses and with positive fluid balance when used to achieve forced diuresis during cisplatin treatment. Furosemide has a tendency to antagonize the skeletal muscle relaxing effect of tubocurarine and may potentiate the action of succinylcholine. Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics because they reduce lithium's renal clearance and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Furosemide combined with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor blockers may lead to severe hypotension and deterioration in renal function, including renal failure. An interruption or reduction in the dosage of furosemide, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers may be necessary. Potentiation occurs with ganglionic or peripheral adrenergic blocking drugs. Furosemide may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine. However, norepinephrine may still be used effectively. Simultaneous administration of sucralfate and furosemide tablets may reduce the natriuretic and antihypertensive effects of furosemide. Patients receiving both drugs should be observed closely to determine if the desired diuretic and/or antihypertensive effect of furosemide is achieved. The intake of furosemide and sucralfate should be separated by at least two hours. In isolated cases, intravenous administration of furosemide within 24 hours of taking chloral hydrate may lead to flushing, sweating attacks, restlessness, nausea, increase in blood pressure, and tachycardia. Use of furosemide concomitantly with chloral hydrate is therefore not recommended. Phenytoin interferes directly with renal action of furosemide. There is evidence that treatment with phenytoin leads to decrease intestinal absorption of furosemide, and consequently to lower peak serum furosemide concentrations. Methotrexate and other drugs that, like furosemide, undergo significant renal tubular secretion may reduce the effect of furosemide. Conversely, furosemide may decrease renal elimination of other drugs that undergo tubular secretion. High-dose treatment of both furosemide and these other drugs may result in elevated serum levels of these drugs and may potentiate their toxicity as well as the toxicity of furosemide. Furosemide can increase the risk of cephalosporin-induced nephrotoxicity even in the setting of minor or transient renal impairment. Concomitant use of cyclosporine and furosemide is associated with increased risk of gouty arthritis secondary to furosemide-induced hyperurecemia and cyclosporine impairment of renal urate excretion. High doses (> 80 mg) of furosemide may inhibit the binding of thyroid hormones to carrier proteins and result in transient increase in free thyroid hormones, followed by an overall decrease in total thyroid hormone levels. One study in six subjects demonstrated that the combination of furosemide and acetylsalicylic acid temporarily reduced creatinine clearance in patients with chronic renal insufficiency. There are case reports of patients who developed increased BUN, serum creatinine and serum potassium levels, and weight gain when furosemide was used in conjunction with NSAIDs. Literature reports indicate that coadministration of indomethacin may reduce the natriuretic and antihypertensive effects of furosemide in some patients by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis. Indomethacin may also affect plasma renin levels, aldosterone excretion, and renin profile evaluation. Patients receiving both indomethacin and furosemide should be observed closely to determine if the desired diuretic and/or antihypertensive effect of furosemide is achieved. Furosemide has a tendency to antagonize the skeletal muscle-relaxing effect of tubocurarine and may potentiate the action of succinylcholine. Furosemide combined with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor blockers may lead to severe hypotension and deterioration in renal function, including renal failure. An interruption or reduction in the dosage of furosemide, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers may be necessary. There is evidence that treatment with phenytoin leads to decreased intestinal absorption of furosemide, and consequently to lower peak serum furosemide concentrations. Literature reports indicate that co-administration of indomethacin may reduce the natriuretic and antihypertensive effects of furosemide in some patients by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis. Concomitant use of cyclosporine and furosemide is associated with increased risk of gouty arthritis secondary to furosemide-induced hyperuricemia and cyclosporine impairment of renal urate excretion. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Aminoglycoside antibiotics : Increased potential ototoxicity of the antibiotics. Avoid combination ( 7.1 ) • Ethacrynic acid : Risk of ototoxicity. Avoid combination ( 7.1 ) • Salicylates : Risk of salicylate toxicity ( 7.1 ) • Cisplatin and nephrotoxic drugs : Risk of ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity ( 7.1 ) • Lithium : Risk of lithium toxicity ( 7.1 ) • Renin-angiotensin inhibitors : Increased risk of hypotension and renal failure. ( 7.1 ) • Adrenergic blocking drugs: Risk of potentiation ( 7.1 ) • Drugs undergoing renal tubular secretion: Risk of toxicity potentiation ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Effects of Furosemide on Other Drugs Drug/Substance Class or Name Drug Interaction Effect Recommendations Aminoglycoside antibiotics Furosemide may increase the ototoxic potential of aminoglycoside antibiotics, especially in the presence of impaired renal function [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Avoid combination except in life-threatening situations. Ethacrynic acid Possibility of ototoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Avoid concomitant use with ethacrynic acid. Salicylates May experience salicylate toxicity at lower doses because of competitive renal excretory sites. Monitor for symptoms of salicylate toxicity. Cisplatin There is a risk of ototoxic effects if cisplatin and furosemide are given concomitantly [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Cisplatin and nephrotoxic drugs Nephrotoxicity Administer furosemide at lower doses and with positive fluid balance when used to achieve forced diuresis during cisplatin treatment. Monitor renal function. Paralytic agents Furosemide has a tendency to antagonize the skeletal muscle relaxing effect of tubocurarine and may potentiate the action of succinylcholine. Monitor for skeletal muscle effect. Lithium Furosemide reduces lithium's renal clearance and add a high-risk of lithium toxicity. Avoid concomitant use with lithium. Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor blockers May lead to severe hypotension and deterioration in renal function, including renal failure. Monitor for changes in blood pressure and renal function and interrupt or reduce the dosage of furosemide, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers if needed. Antihypertensive drugs Furosemide may add to or potentiate the therapeutic effect of other antihypertensive drugs. Monitor for changes in blood pressure and adjust the dose of other antihypertensive drugs if needed. Adrenergic blocking drugs or peripheral adrenergic blocking drugs Potentiation occurs. Monitor for changes in blood pressure and adjust the dose of adrenergic blocking drugs if needed. Norepinephrine Furosemide may decrease arterial responsiveness (vasoconstricting effect) to norepinephrine. Monitor blood pressure (or mean arterial pressure). Chloral hydrate In isolated cases, intravenous administration of furosemide within 24 hours of taking chloral hydrate may lead to flushing, sweating attacks, restlessness, nausea, increase in blood pressure, and tachycardia. Concomitant use with chloral hydrate is not recommended. Methotrexate and other drugs undergoing renal tubular secretion Furosemide may decrease renal elimination of other drugs that undergo tubular secretion. High-dose treatment of furosemide may result in elevated serum levels of these drugs and may potentiate their toxicity. Monitor serum levels of drugs undergoing renal tubular secretion and adjust the dose if needed. Cephalosporin Furosemide can increase the risk of cephalosporin-induced nephrotoxicity even in the setting of minor or transient renal impairment. Monitor for changes in renal function. Cyclosporine Increased risk of gouty arthritis secondary to furosemide-induced hyperuricemia and cyclosporine impairment of renal urate excretion. Monitor serum urate levels. Thyroid hormones High-doses (> 80 mg) of furosemide may inhibit the binding of thyroid hormones to carrier proteins and result in transient increase in free thyroid hormones, followed by an overall decrease in total thyroid hormone levels. Monitor the total thyroid hormone levels. 7.2 Effects of Other Drugs on Furosemide Drug/Substance Class or Name Drug Interaction Effect Recommendations Phenytoin Interferes directly with renal action of furosemide. Monitor diuretic effects of furosemide and adjust the dose of furosemide if needed. Methotrexate and other drugs undergoing renal tubular secretion May reduce the effect of furosemide. High-dose treatment of methotrexate and these other drugs may result in elevated serum levels of furosemide and may potentiate the toxicity of furosemide. Monitor for enhanced toxicity of furosemide. Indomethacin Coadministration of indomethacin may reduce the natriuretic and antihypertensive effects of furosemide in some patients by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving high doses of salicylates concomitantly with furosemide, as in rheumatic diseases, may experience salicylate toxicity at lower doses because of competitive renal excretory sites. Furosemide may add to or potentiate the therapeutic effect of other antihypertensive drugs. Drug Interactions Furosemide tablets may increase the ototoxic potential of aminoglycoside antibiotics, especially in the presence of impaired renal function. Furosemide tablets should not be used concomitantly with ethacrynic acid because of the possibility of ototoxicity. Patients receiving high doses of salicylates concomitantly with Furosemide tablets, as in rheumatic disease, may experience salicylate toxicity at lower doses because of competitive renal excretory sites. There is a risk of ototoxic effects if cisplatin and Furosemide tablets are given concomitantly. In addition, nephrotoxicity of nephrotoxic drugs such as cisplatin may be enhanced if Furosemide tablets are not given in lower doses and with positive fluid balance when used to achieve forced diuresis during cisplatin treatment. Furosemide tablets have a tendency to antagonize the skeletal muscle relaxing effect of tubocurarine and may potentiate the action of succinylcholine. Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics because they reduce lithium’s renal clearance and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Furosemide tablets combined with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor blockers may lead to severe hypotension and deterioration in renal function, including renal failure. An interruption or reduction in the dosage of Furosemide tablets, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers may be necessary. Furosemide tablets may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine. Simultaneous administration of sucralfate and Furosemide tablets may reduce the natriuretic and antihypertensive effects of Furosemide tablets. Patients receiving both drugs should be observed closely to determine if the desired diuretic and/or antihypertensive effect of Furosemide tablets is achieved. The intake of Furosemide tablets and sucralfate should be separated by at least two hours. In isolated cases, intravenous administration of Furosemide tablets within 24 hours of taking chloral hydrate may lead to flushing, sweating attacks, restlessness, nausea, increase in blood pressure, and tachycardia. Use of Furosemide tablets concomitantly with chloral hydrate is, therefore, not recommended. Phenytoin interferes directly with renal action of Furosemide tablets. There is evidence that treatment with phenytoin leads to decrease intestinal absorption of Furosemide tablets, and consequently to lower peak serum furosemide concentrations. Methotrexate and other drugs that, like Furosemide tablets, undergo significant renal tubular secretion may reduce the effect of Furosemide tablets. Conversely, Furosemide tablets may decrease renal elimination of other drugs that undergo tubular secretion. High-dose treatment of both Furosemide tablets and these other drugs may result in elevated serum levels of these drugs and may potentiate their toxicity as well as the toxicity of Furosemide tablets. Furosemide tablets can increase the risk of cephalosporin-induced nephrotoxicity even in the setting of minor or transient renal impairment. Concomitant use of cyclosporine and Furosemide tablets is associated with increased risk of gouty arthritis secondary to Furosemide tablets-induced hyperurecemia and cyclosporine impairment of renal urate excretion. High doses (>80mg) of furosemide may inhibit the binding of thyroid hormones to carrier proteins and result in transient increase in free thyroid hormones, followed by an overall decrease in total thyroid hormone levels. Literature reports indicate that coadministration of indomethacin may reduce the natriuretic and antihypertensive effects of Furosemide tablets (furesomide) in some patients by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis. Patients receiving both indomethacin and Furosemide tablets should be observed closely to determine if the desired diuretic and/or antihypertensive effect of Furosemide tablets is achieved.

=== METHOCARBAMOL ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methocarbamol tablets, USP are indicated as an adjunct to rest, physical therapy, and other measures for the relief of discomfort associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions. The mode of action of methocarbamol has not been clearly identified, but may be related to its sedative properties. Methocarbamol does not directly relax tense skeletal muscles in man. INDICATIONS AND USAGE The injectable form of methocarbamol is indicated as an adjunct to rest, physical therapy, and other measures for the relief of discomfort associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions. The mode of action of this drug has not been clearly identified, but may be related to its sedative properties. INDICATIONS & USAGE Methocarbamol tablets USP are indicated as an adjunct to rest, physical therapy, and other measures for the relief of discomfort associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methocarbamol is indicated as an adjunct to rest, physical therapy, and other measures for the relief of discomfort associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Methocarbamol tablets, USP, 500 mg – Adults: Initial dosage: 3 tablets q.i.d. Maintenance dosage: 2 tablets q.i.d. Methocarbamol tablets, USP: 750 mg – Adults: Initial dosage: 2 tablets q.i.d. Maintenance dosage: 1 tablet q.4h. or 2 tablets t.i.d. Six grams a day are recommended for the first 48 to 72 hours of treatment. (For severe conditions 8 grams a day may be administered). Thereafter, the dosage can usually be reduced to approximately 4 grams a day. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For Intravenous and Intramuscular Use Only. Total adult dosage should not exceed 30 mL (3 vials) a day for more than 3 consecutive days except in the treatment of tetanus. If the condition persists, a like course may be repeated after a drug-free interval of 48 hours. Dosage and frequency of injection should be based on the severity of the condition being treated and therapeutic response noted. For the relief of symptoms of moderate degree, one dose of 1 gram (one 10 mL vial) may be adequate. Ordinarily this injection need not be repeated, as the administration of the oral form will usually sustain the relief initiated by the injection. For the severest cases or in postoperative conditions in which oral administration is not feasible, additional doses of 1 gram may be repeated every 8 hours up to a maximum of 3 grams per day for no more than 3 consecutive days. Directions for Intravenous Use Methocarbamol Injection may be administered undiluted directly into the vein at a maximum rate of three mL per minute. It may also be added to an intravenous drip of Sodium Chloride Injection (Sterile Isotonic Sodium Chloride Solution for Parenteral Use) or five percent Dextrose Injection (Sterile 5 percent Dextrose Solution); one vial given as a single dose should not be diluted to more than 250 mL for I.V. infusion. AFTER MIXING WITH INTRAVENOUS INFUSION FLUIDS, DO NOT REFRIGERATE. Care should be exercised to avoid vascular extravasation of this hypertonic solution, which may result in thrombophlebitis. It is preferable that the patient be in a recumbent position during and for at least 10 to 15 minutes following the injection. Directions for Intramuscular Use When the intramuscular route is indicated, not more than five mL (one-half vial) should be injected into each gluteal region. The injections may be repeated at eight-hour intervals, if necessary. When satisfactory relief of symptoms is achieved, it can usually be maintained with tablets. Not Recommended for Subcutaneous Administration. Special Directions for Use in Tetanus There is clinical evidence which suggests that methocarbamol may have a beneficial effect in the control of the neuromuscular manifestations of tetanus. It does not, however, replace the usual procedure of debridement, tetanus antitoxin, penicillin, tracheotomy, attention to fluid balance, and supportive care. Methocarbamol Injection should be added to the regimen as soon as possible. For Adults: Inject one or two vials directly into the tubing of the previously inserted indwelling needle. An additional 10 mL or 20 mL may be added to the infusion bottle so that a total of up to 30 mL (three vials) is given as the initial dose (see PRECAUTIONS ). This procedure should be repeated every six hours until conditions allow for the insertion of a nasogastric tube. Crushed methocarbamol tablets suspended in water or saline may then be given through this tube. Total daily oral doses up to 24 grams may be required as judged by patient response. For Pediatric Patients: A minimum initial dose of 15 mg/kg or 500 mg/m 2 is recommended. This dosage may be repeated every six hours, if required. The total dose should not exceed 1.8 g/m 2 for 3 consecutive days. The maintenance dosage may be given by injection into tubing or by I.V. infusion with an appropriate quantity of fluid. See Directions for Intravenous Use . DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Methocarbamol Tablets USP 500 mg – Adults: Initial dosage: 3 tablets q.i.d. Methocarbamol Tablets USP 750 mg – Adults: Initial dosage: 2 tablets q.i.d. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Methocarbamol, 500 mg — Adults: Initial dosage: 3 tablets q.i.d. Methocarbamol, 750 mg — Adults: Initial dosage: 2 tablets q.i.d. For the severest cases or in postoperative conditions in which oral administration is not feasible, additional doses of 1 gram may be repeated every 8 hours up to a maximum of 3 g/day for no more than 3 consecutive days. Directions for Intravenous Use ROBAXIN Injectable may be administered undiluted directly into the vein at a maximum rate of three mL per minute. AFTER MIXING WITH I.V. INFUSION FLUIDS, DO NOT REFRIGERATE. The injections may be repeated at eight hour intervals, if necessary. ROBAXIN Injectable should be added to the regimen as soon as possible. See directions for I.V. use.
Warnings: WARNINGS Since methocarbamol may possess a general CNS depressant effect, patients receiving Methocarbamol tablets, USP should be cautioned about combined effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants. Safe use of Methocarbamol tablets, USP has not been established with regard to possible adverse effects upon fetal development. There have been reports of fetal and congenital abnormalities following in utero exposure to methocarbamol. Therefore, Methocarbamol tablets, USP should not be used in women who are or may become pregnant and particularly during early pregnancy unless in the judgment of the physician the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards (see Precautions, Pregnancy ). Use In Activities Requiring Mental Alertness Methocarbamol may impair mental and/or physical abilities required for performance of hazardous tasks, such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle. Patients should be cautioned about operating machinery, including automobiles, until they are reasonably certain that methocarbamol therapy does not adversely affect their ability to engage in such activities. WARNINGS Since methocarbamol may possess a general CNS depressant effect, patients receiving Methocarbamol Injection should be cautioned about combined effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants. Safe use of Methocarbamol Injection has not been established with regard to possible adverse effects upon fetal development. There have been very rare reports of fetal and congenital abnormalities following in utero exposure to methocarbamol. Therefore, Methocarbamol Injection should not be used in women who are or may become pregnant and particularly during early pregnancy unless in the judgment of the physician the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards (see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy ). WARNINGS Since methocarbamol may possess a general CNS depressant effect, patients receiving methocarbamol tablets USP should be cautioned about combined effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants. Safe use of methocarbamol tablets USP has not been established with regard to possible adverse effects upon fetal development. Therefore, methocarbamol tablets USP should not be used in women who are or may become pregnant and particularly during early pregnancy unless in the judgment of the physician the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards (see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy ). Therefore, methocarbamol tablets USP should not be used in women who are or may become pregnant and particularly during early pregnancy unless in the judgment of the physician the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards (see PRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy ). WARNINGS Since methocarbamol may possess a general CNS depressant effect, patients receiving methocarbamol tablets should be cautioned about combined effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants. Safe use of methocarbamol has not been established with regard to possible adverse effects upon fetal development. Therefore, methocarbamol tablets should not be used in women who are or may become pregnant and particularly during early pregnancy unless in the judgment of the physician the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards (see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy ) . Therefore, methocarbamol tablets should not be used in women who are or may become pregnant and particularly during early pregnancy unless in the judgment of the physician the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards (see PRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy ) . Use i n Activities Requiring Mental Alertness Methocarbamol may impair mental and/or physical abilities required for performance of hazardous tasks, such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle. WARNINGS Since methocarbamol may possess a general CNS depressant effect, patients receiving ROBAXIN Injectable should be cautioned about combined effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants. Safe use of ROBAXIN Injectable has not been established with regard to possible adverse effects upon fetal development. Therefore, ROBAXIN Injectable should not be used in women who are or may become pregnant and particularly during early pregnancy unless in the judgment of the physician the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards (see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy ).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Methocarbamol tablets, USP are contraindicated in patients hypersensitive to methocarbamol or to any of the tablet components. CONTRAINDICATIONS Methocarbamol Injection should not be administered to patients with known or suspected renal pathology. This caution is necessary because of the presence of polyethylene glycol 300 in the vehicle. A much larger amount of polyethylene glycol 300 than is present in recommended doses of Methocarbamol Injection is known to have increased pre-existing acidosis and urea retention in patients with renal impairment. Although the amount present in this preparation is well within the limits of safety, caution dictates this contraindication. Methocarbamol Injection is contraindicated in patients hypersensitive to methocarbamol or to any of the injection components. CONTRAINDICATIONS Methocarbamol tablets USP are contraindicated in patients hypersensitive to methocarbamol or to any of the tablet components. CONTRAINDICATIONS Methocarbamol is contraindicated in patients hypersensitive to methocarbamol or to any of the tablet components. CONTRAINDICATIONS ROBAXIN Injectable should not be administered to patients with known or suspected renal pathology. A much larger amount of polyethylene glycol 300 than is present in recommended doses of ROBAXIN Injectable is known to have increased pre-existing acidosis and urea retention in patients with renal impairment. ROBAXIN Injectable is contraindicated in patients hypersensitive to methocarbamol or to any of the injection components.
Interactions (label): Drug interactions See Warnings and Precautions for interaction with CNS drugs and alcohol. Methocarbamol may inhibit the effect of pyridostigmine bromide. Therefore, methocarbamol should be used with caution in patients with myasthenia gravis receiving anticholinesterase agents.

=== STANNOUS FLUORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Anticavity/Antigingivitis Purpose Anticavity, Antigingivitis, Antihypersensitivity PURPOSE ANTICAVITY AND ANTISENSITIVITY Purpose Anticavity Purpose: Fluoride preventive treatment gel. Purpose Anticavity/Sensitivity Relief/Antigingivitis Purpose Fluoride preventive treatment gel Purposes Anticavity Antigingivitis
Indications: Uses aids in the prevention of cavities * helps prevent gingivitis * helps interfere with teh harmful effects of plaque associated with gingivitis * helps control plaque bacteria that contribute to teh development of gingivitis Indications & Usage aids in the prevention of dental cavities * helps interfere with the harmful effects of plaque associated with gingivitis * builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold, heat, acids, sweets or contact Uses aids in the prevention of dental cavities * helps interfere with the harmful effects of plaque associated with gingivitis * builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold, heat, acids, sweets or contact USE AIDS IN THE PREVENTION OF DENTAL CAVITIES AND BUILDS INCREASING PROTECTION AGAINST PAINFUL SENSITIVITY OF THE TEETH. Uses Aids in the prevention of dental cavities (caries). Uses: Home Care is a stable, water-free fluoride gel for home use. Aids in the prevention of dental decay. Uses Aids in the prevention of cavities Builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold, heat, acids, sweets or contact Helps prevent gingivitis Helps interfere with the harmful effects of plaque associated with gingivitis Uses Home Care is a stable fluoride gel for home use. Use Aids in the prevention of dental decay Uses • aids in the prevention of dental cavities. • helps control bleeding gums. • helps interfere with harmful effects of plaque associated with gingivitis.
Dosage: Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older: brush teeth thoroughly, preferably after each meal or at least twice a day, or as directed by a dentist or physician * do not swallow * children under 12 years of age: ask a dentist Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older: apply at least a 1-inch strip of the product onto a soft bristle toothbrush brush teeth thoroughly for at least 1 minute twice a day (morning and evening), and not more than 3 times a day, or as recommended by a dentist or doctor. Make sure to brush all sensitive areas of the teeth. Minimize swallowing. Spit out after brushing. children under 12 years of age : Consult a dentist or doctor. Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older : apply at least a 1-inch strip of the product unto a soft bristle toothbrush * brush teeth thoroughly for at least 1 minute twice a day (morning and evening), and not more than 3 times a day, or as recommended by a dentist or doctor. * children under 12 years of age: consult a dentist or doctor. DIRECTIONS Adults and children 2 years of age and older: Brush teeth thoroughly, preferably after each meal or at least twice a day, or as directed by a dentist or doctor. Instruct children under 6 years of age in good brushing and rinsing habits (to minimize swallowing). Supervise children as necessary until capable of using without supervision. Children under 2 years of age: Consult a dentist or doctor. Directions • This is not a toothpaste. Read directions carefully before using. • Adults and children 6 years of age and older: o Use once per day after brushing teeth thoroughly with toothpaste o Twist off cap to remove foil seal o Apply a small amount to a toothbrush and brush thoroughly on all tooth surfaces. o Allow the gel to remain on your teeth for 1 minute o Spit out. Do not swallow o Do not eat, drink, or rinse for at least 30 minutes • Children under 6: consult a dentist or doctors Directions: Adults and children 6 years of age and older: Twist off cap and remove foil seal. Use once a day after brushing your teeth with a toothpaste. Apply the gel to your teeth and brush thoroughly. Allow the gel to remain on your teeth for 1 minute and then spit out. Do not swallow the gel. Do not eat or drink for 30 minutes after brushing. Instruct children under 12 years of age in the use of this product (to minimize swallowing). Children under 6 years of age: consult a dentist or doctor. Directions Adults and children 6 years of age or older: Use once a day after brushing your teeth with a toothpaste. Do not rinse, eat or drink for 30 minutes after brushing. Directions Adults and children 6 years of age and older: Twist off cap to remove foil seal. Directions Adults and children 6 years of age and older: Use a pea-sized (.25g) dose once a day after brushing your teeth with a toothpaste. Directions • adults and children 2 years of age and older: • brush teeth thoroughly, preferably after each meal at least twice a day, or as directed by a dentist or doctor. • to minimize swallowing for children under 6 years of age, use a pea-sized amount and supervise brushing and rinsing until good habits are established. • children under 2 years of age: Consult a dentist or doctor.
Warnings: Warnings Keep out of reach of children under 12 years of age. If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings When using this product, if irritation occurs discontinue use. Stop use and ask a dentist if: the problem persists or worsens. Sensitive teeth may indicate a serious problem that may need prompt care by a dentist pain/sensitivity still persists after 4 weeks of use gingivitis, bleeding, or redness persists for more than 2 weeks you have painful or swollen gums, pus from the gum line, loose teeth, or increasing space between teeth. These may be signs or symptoms of periodontitis, a serious form of gum disease. Stop use and ask a dentist if: * the problem persists or worsens. Sensitive teeth may indicate a serious problem that may need prompt care by a dentist * pain/sensitivity still persists after 4 weeks of use * gingivitis, bleeding, or redness persists for more than 2 weeks * you have painful or swollen gums, pus from the gum line, loose teeth, or increasing space between teeth. WARNINGS Stop use and ask a doctor if the problem persists or worsens. Sensitive teeth may indicate a serious problem that may need prompt care by a dentist. pain/sensitivity still persists after 4 weeks of use. Warnings Keep out of reach of children. If more that used for brushing is accidentally swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Do not swallow. Supervision of children is required when using this product. Developing teeth of children under six years of age may become permanently discolored if excessive amounts are repeatedly swallowed. Warnings: If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. This product may produce surface staining of the teeth. Adequate toothbrushing may prevent these stains which are not harmful or permanent and may be removed by your dentist. This is a fluoride preventive treatment gel, not a toothpaste. Read directions carefully before using. If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Do not use if gingivitis, bleeding, or redness persists for more than 2 weeks, see your dentist. See your dentist immediately if you have painful or swollen gums, pus from the gum line, loose teeth, or increasing spacing between the teeth. Stop use and ask a dentist if the problem persists or worsens. Do not use this product for sensitivity relief longer than 4 weeks unless recommended by a dentist or doctor. Warnings This is a fluoride preventive treatment gel, not a toothpaste. Keep out of reach of children. Adequate tooth brushing may prevent these stains which are not harmful or permanent and may be removed by your dentist. Warnings Stop use and ask a dentist if • gingivitis, bleeding, or redness persists for more than 2 weeks. • you have painful or swollen gums, pus from the gum line, loose teeth, or increasing spacing between the teeth. Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age.

=== TITANIUM DIOXIDE AND ZINC OXIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Sunscreen Active ingredients Purpose Titanium Dioxide 2% Sunscreen Zinc Oxide 17% Sunscreen Active Ingredients Purpose Titanium Dioxide 7.47% Sunscreen Zinc Oxide 4.75% Sunscreen Purpose Acne treatment Active ingredients Purpose Titanium dioxide 6.2% Sunscreen Zinc oxide 15.6% Sunscreen Active ingredients Purpose Titanium Dioxide 5% Sunscreen Zinc Oxide 5% Sunscreen Active ingredients Purpose Titanium dioxide 3.28% Sunscreen Zinc oxide 12.48% Sunscreen
Indications: USES Helps prevent sunburn. Uses Helps prevent sunburn If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun. If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun. Uses or the treatment of acne dries up acne pimples helps prevent new acne pimples Uses helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun
Dosage: DIRECTIONS Apply to all skin exposed to the sun. *Apply liberally and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure. *Reapply at least every 2 hours. *Use a water-resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating. *For children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor. Sun Protection Measures. Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses. Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Reapply: after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating immediately after towel drying at least every 2 hours Children under 6 months: Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures: Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease the risk, regularly use a sunscreen with Broad Spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: Limit time in the sun, especially from 10a.m.-2p.m. Wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats and sunglasses Directions Shake before use. Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure. Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating. Reapply at least every 2 hours. Children under 6 months: Ask a doctor. Sun Protection Measures . To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: – Limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m.-2 p.m. – Wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats and sunglasses Directions Cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying this product. Shake product well before use. Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily. Because excessive drying of the skin may occur, start with one application daily, then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor. If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs, reduce application to once a day or every other day. Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating reapply at least every 2 hours children under 6 months: Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m.–2 p.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses Directions For sunscreen use: ● apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure ● reapply at least every 2 hours ● use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating ● Sun Protection Measures . To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: ● limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. ● wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses ● children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Reapply at least every 2 hours Children under 6 months: Ask a doctor Optional: apply to all skin exposed to the sun Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: Limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m.-2 p.m. Directions For sunscreen use: apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating reapply at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats and sunglasses. children under 6 months: Ask a doctor Directions shake well before use apply generously 15 minutes before sun exposure apply to all skin exposed to the sun reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: - limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. - wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats and sunglasses children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor
Warnings: WARNINGS For external use only. Do not use on damaged or broken skin. When using this product keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs. Keep out of reach of children. Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs When using this product keep out of eyes. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Stop use and ask doctor if rash occurs. Keep out of the reach of children. Warnings For external use only When using this product skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time. If irritation occurs, only use one topical acne medication at a time. Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation becomes severe. Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes. Stop use and ask doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. Warnings For external use only Warnings For external use only Stop use and ask doctor if rash occurs Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes. Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin.

=== FENOFIBRATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fenofibrate tablet USP is a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) alpha agonist indicated as an adjunct to diet: To reduce elevated LDL-C, Total-C, TG and Apo B, and to increase HDL-C in adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed dyslipidemia ( 1.1 ). For treatment of adult patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia ( 1.2 ). Limitations of Use: Fenofibrate was not shown to reduce coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus ( 5.1 ). 1.1 Primary Hypercholesterolemia or Mixed Dyslipidemia Fenofibrate tablet USP is indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet to reduce elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), total cholesterol (Total-C), Triglycerides and apolipoprotein B (Apo B), and to increase high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) in adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed dyslipidemia. 1.2 Severe Hypertriglyceridemia Fenofibrate tablet USP is also indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet for treatment of adult patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia. Improving glycemic control in diabetic patients showing fasting chylomicronemia will usually obviate the need for pharmacologic intervention. Markedly elevated levels of serum triglycerides (e.g. > 2,000 mg/dL) may increase the risk of developing pancreatitis. The effect of fenofibrate therapy on reducing this risk has not been adequately studied. 1.3 Important Limitations of Use Fenofibrate at a dose equivalent to 160 mg of fenofibrate tablet USP was not shown to reduce coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality in a large, randomized controlled trial of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fenofibrate tablets are indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet: to reduce triglyceride (TG) levels in adults with severe hypertriglyceridemia (TG greater than or equal to 500 mg/dL). to reduce elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in adults with primary hyperlipidemia when use of recommended LDL-C lowering therapy is not possible. Limitations of Use Markedly elevated levels of serum TG (e.g. The effect of fenofibrate therapy on reducing this risk has not been determined[see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Fenofibrate did not reduce coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality in two large, randomized controlled trials of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus[see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Studies (14.4) ]. Fenofibrate tablets is a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) alpha agonist indicated as an adjunct to diet: to reduce triglyceride (TG) levels in adults with severe hypertriglyceridemia (TG greater than or equal to 500 mg/dL) (1). to reduce elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in adults with primary hyperlipidemia when use of recommended LDL-C lowering therapy is not possible (1). Limitations of Use: Markedly elevated levels of serum TG (e.g., >2,000 mg/dL) may increase the risk of developing pancreatitis. The effect of fenofibrate therapy on reducing this risk has not been determined (1). Fenofibrate did not reduce coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality in two large, randomized controlled trials of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (1). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Treatment of Hypercholesterolemia Fenofibrate capsules are indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet for the reduction of LDL-C, Total-C, Triglycerides and Apo B in adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed dyslipidemia (Fredrickson Types IIa and IIb). Lipid-altering agents should be used in addition to a diet restricted in saturated fat and cholesterol when response to diet and non-pharmacological interventions alone has been inadequate (see National Cholesterol Education Program [NCEP] Treatment Guidelines, below). Treatment of Hypertriglyceridemia Fenofibrate capsules are also indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet for treatment of adult patients with hypertriglyceridemia (Fredrickson Types IV and V hyperlipidemia). Improving glycemic control in diabetic patients showing fasting chylomicronemia will usually reduce fasting triglycerides and eliminate chylomicronemia thereby obviating the need for pharmacologic intervention. The effect of fenofibrate capsules therapy on reducing this risk has not been adequately studied. Drug therapy is not indicated for patients with Type I hyperlipoproteinemia, who have elevations of chylomicrons and plasma triglycerides, but who have normal levels of very low density lipoprotein (VLDL). Inspection of plasma refrigerated for 14 hours is helpful in distinguishing Types I, IV and V hyperlipoproteinemia 2 . The initial treatment for dyslipidemia is dietary therapy specific for the type of lipoprotein abnormality. Excess body weight and excess alcoholic intake may be important factors in hypertriglyceridemia and should be addressed prior to any drug therapy. Physical exercise can be an important ancillary measure. Diseases contributory to hyperlipidemia, such as hypothyroidism or diabetes mellitus should be looked for and adequately treated. Estrogen therapy, like thiazide diuretics and beta-blockers, is sometimes associated with massive rises in plasma triglycerides, especially in subjects with familial hypertriglyceridemia. In such cases, discontinuation of the specific etiologic agent may obviate the need for specific drug therapy of hypertriglyceridemia. The use of drugs should be considered only when reasonable attempts have been made to obtain satisfactory results with non-drug methods. If the decision is made to use drugs, the patient should be instructed that this does not reduce the importance of adhering to diet (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ). Fredrickson Classification of Hyperlipoproteinemias C = cholesterol TG = triglycerides LDL = low density lipoprotein VLDL = very low density lipoprotein IDL = intermediate density lipoprotein Lipid Elevation Type Lipoprotein Elevated Major Minor I (rare) chylomicrons TG ↑ ↔ C IIa LDL C — IIb LDL, VLDL C TG III (rare) IDL C, TG — IV VLDL TG ↑ ↔ C V (rare) chylomicrons, VLDL TG ↑ ↔ The NCEP Treatment Guidelines a) Coronary heart disease or peripheral vascular disease (including symptomatic carotid artery disease) b) Other risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) include age (males: ≥45 years females: ≥55 years or premature menopause without estrogen replacement therapy); family history of premature CHD, current cigarette smoking; hypertension; confirmed HDL-C is <35 mg/dL (< 0.91 mmol/L), and diabetes mellitus. Subtract 1 risk factor if HDL-C is >60 mg/dL (≥1.6 mmol/L) c) in CHD patients with LDL-C levels 100 to 129 mg/dL the physician should exercise clinical judgment in deciding whether to initiate drug treatment Definite Athlerosclerotic Disease a Two or More Other Risk Factors b LDL-Cholesterol mg/dL (mmol/L) Initiation Level Goal No No ≥ 190 (≥ 4.9) < 160 (< 4.1) No Yes ≥ 160 (≥ 4.1) < 130 (< 3.4) Yes Yes or No ≥ 130 c (≥ 3.4) < 100 (< 2.6) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fenofibrate tablets are a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) alpha agonist indicated as an adjunct to diet: • To reduce elevated LDL-C, Total-C, TG and Apo B, and to increase HDL-C in adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed dyslipidemia (1.1). • For treatment of adult patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia (1.2). Limitations of Use: Fenofibrate was not shown to reduce coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (5.1). 1.1 Primary Hypercholesterolemia or Mixed Dyslipidemia Fenofibrate tablets are indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet to reduce elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), total cholesterol (Total-C), Triglycerides and apolipoprotein B (Apo B), and to increase high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) in adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed dyslipidemia. 1.2 Severe Hypertriglyceridemia Fenofibrate tablets are also indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet for treatment of adult patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia. 1.3 Important Limitations of Use Fenofibrate at a dose equivalent to 145 mg of fenofibrate tablets was not shown to reduce coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality in a large, randomized controlled trial of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . INDICATIONS AND USAGE Treatment of Hypercholesterolemia Fenofibrate capsules, USP are indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet for the reduction of LDLC, total-C, Triglycerides and apo B in adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed dyslipidemia (Fredrickson Types IIa and IIb). Lipid altering agents should be used in addition to a diet restricted in saturated fat and cholesterol when response to diet and non-pharmacological interventions alone has been inadequate (see National Cholesterol Education Program [NCEP] Treatment Guidelines , below). Treatment of Hypertriglyceridemia Fenofibrate capsules, USP are also indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet for treatment of adult patients with hypertriglyceridemia (Fredrickson Types IV and V hyperlipidemia). Fredrickson Classification of Hyperlipoproteinemias C = cholesterol TG = triglycerides LDL = low density lipoprotein VLDL = very lot density lipoprotein IDL = intermediate density lipoprotein Lipid Elevation Type Lipoprotein Elevated Major Minor I (rare) IIa IIb III (rare) IV V (rare) Chylomicrons LDL LDL, VLDL IDL VLDL Chylomicrons, VLDL TG C C C, TG TG TG ↑ ↔ C - TG - ↑ ↔ C ↑ ↔ The NCEP Treatment Guidelines Definite Atherosclerotic Two or More Other LDL-Cholesterol mg/dL (mmol/L) Disease Coronary heart disease or peripheral vascular disease (including symptomatic carotid artery disease). Risk Factors Other risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) include: age (males: ≥ 45 years; females: ≥ 55 years or premature menopause without estrogen replacement therapy); family history of premature CHD; current cigarette smoking; hypertension; confirmed HDL-C < 35 mg/dL (< 0.91 mmol/L); and diabetes mellitus. Subtract I risk favor if HDL-C is ≥ 60 mg/dL (≥ 1.6 mmol/L) Initiation Level Goal No No Yes No Yes Yes or No ≥ 190 (≥ 4.9) ≥ 160 (≥ 4.1) ≥ 130 In CHD patients with LDL-C levels 100 to 129 mg/dL, the physician should exercise clinical judgment in deciding whether to initiate drug treatment. (≥ 3.4) < 160 (< 4.1) < 130 (< 3.4) < 100 (< 2.6) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fenofibrate tablets are indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet: • to reduce triglyceride (TG) levels in adults with severe hypertriglyceridemia (TG greater than or equal to 500 mg/dL). • to reduce elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in adults with primary hyperlipidemia when use of recommended LDL-C lowering therapy is not possible. Limitations of Use • Markedly elevated levels of serum TG (e.g. The effect of fenofibrate therapy on reducing this risk has not been determined [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . • Fenofibrate did not reduce coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality in two large, randomized controlled trials of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )] . Fenofibrate tablets are a are a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) alpha agonist indicated as an adjunct to diet: • to reduce triglyceride (TG) levels in adults with severe hypertriglyceridemia (TG greater than or equal to 500 mg/dL) ( 1 ). • to reduce elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in adults with primary hyperlipidemia when use of recommended LDL-C lowering therapy is not possible ( 1 ). Limitations of Use: • Markedly elevated levels of serum TG (e.g., >2,000 mg/dL) may increase the risk of developing pancreatitis. The effect of fenofibrate therapy on reducing this risk has not been determined ( 1 ). • Fenofibrate did not reduce coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality in two large, randomized controlled trials of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus ( 1 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fenofibrate tablets USP is indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet: To reduce triglyceride (TG) levels in adults with severe hypertriglyceridemia (TG greater than or equal to 500 mg/dL). Fenofibrate did not reduce coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality in two large, randomized controlled trials of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )] . Fenofibrate is a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) alpha agonist indicated as an adjunct to diet: To reduce triglyceride (TG) levels in adults with severe hypertriglyceridemia (TG greater than or equal to 500 mg/dL) ( 1 ). To reduce elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in adults with primary hyperlipidemia when use of recommended LDL-C lowering therapy is not possible ( 1 ). Fenofibrate did not reduce coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality in two large, randomized controlled trials of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus ( 1 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fenofibrate is a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) alpha agonist indicated as an adjunct to diet: To reduce elevated LDL-C, Total-C, TG and Apo B, and to increase HDL-C in adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed dyslipidemia ( 1.1 ). Markedly elevated levels of serum triglycerides (e.g., > 2,000 mg/dL) may increase the risk of developing pancreatitis. 1.3 Important Limitations of Use Fenofibrate at a dose equivalent to 160 mg of fenofibrate tablet was not shown to reduce coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality in a large, randomized controlled trial of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fenofibrate tablets are peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) alpha agonist indicated as an adjunct to diet: To reduce elevated LDL-C, Total-C, TG and Apo B, and to increase HDL-C in adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed dyslipidemia ( 1.1 ). 1.3 Important Limitations of Use Fenofibrate at a dose equivalent to 145 mg of fenofibrate tablet was not shown to reduce coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality in a large, randomized controlled trial of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Fenofibrate tablets are peroxisome proliferator receptor alpha (PPARα) activator indicated as an adjunct to diet: • To reduce elevated LDL-C, Total-C, TG and Apo B, and to increase HDL-C in adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed dyslipidemia ( 1.1 ). • For treatment of adult patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia ( 1.2 ). Important Limitations of Use: Fenofibrate was not shown to reduce coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus ( 5.1 ). 1.3 Important Limitations of Use Fenofibrate at a dose equivalent to 145 mg of fenofibrate tablets was not shown to reduce coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality in a large, randomized controlled trial of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ].
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed dyslipidemia: Initial dose of 160 mg once daily ( 2.2 ). Severe hypertriglyceridemia: Initial dose of 54 to 160 mg once daily. Maximum dose is 160 mg ( 2.3 ). Renally impaired patients: Initial dose of 54 mg once daily ( 2.4 ). Geriatric patients: Select the dose on the basis of renal function ( 2.5 ). Should be given with meals ( 2.1 ). 2.1 General Considerations Patients should be placed on an appropriate lipid-lowering diet before receiving fenofibrate tablet USP, and should continue this diet during treatment with fenofibrate tablet USP. Fenofibrate tablets USP should be given with meals, thereby optimizing the bioavailability of the medication. The initial treatment for dyslipidemia is dietary therapy specific for the type of lipoprotein abnormality. Excess body weight and excess alcoholic intake may be important factors in hypertriglyceridemia and should be addressed prior to any drug therapy. Physical exercise can be an important ancillary measure. Diseases contributory to hyperlipidemia, such as hypothyroidism or diabetes mellitus should be looked for and adequately treated. Estrogen therapy, thiazide diuretics and beta-blockers, are sometimes associated with massive rises in plasma triglycerides, especially in subjects with familial hypertriglyceridemia. In such cases, discontinuation of the specific etiologic agent may obviate the need for specific drug therapy of hypertriglyceridemia. Lipid levels should be monitored periodically and consideration should be given to reducing the dosage of fenofibrate tablet USP if lipid levels fall significantly below the targeted range. Therapy should be withdrawn in patients who do not have an adequate response after two months of treatment with the maximum recommended dose of 160 mg once daily. 2.2 Primary Hypercholesterolemia or Mixed Dyslipidemia The initial dose of fenofibrate tablet USP is 160 mg once daily. 2.3 Severe Hypertriglyceridemia The initial dose is 54 to 160 mg per day. Dosage should be individualized according to patient response, and should be adjusted if necessary following repeat lipid determinations at 4 to 8 week intervals. The maximum dose is 160 mg once daily. 2.4 Impaired Renal Function Treatment with fenofibrate tablet USP should be initiated at a dose of 54 mg per day in patients having mild to moderately impaired renal function, and increased only after evaluation of the effects on renal function and lipid levels at this dose. The use of fenofibrate tablet USP should be avoided in patients with severe renal impairment [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.6 ) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. 2.5 Geriatric Patients Dose selection for the elderly should be made on the basis of renal function [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.5 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Severe hypertriglyceridemia: 48 to 145 mg orally once daily; the dosage should be adjusted according to patient response (2.2). Primary hyperlipidemia: 145 mg orally once daily (2.2). Administer as a single dose, at any time of day, with or without food (2.2) . Assess TG when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 to 8 weeks after initiating fenofibrate tablets. Discontinue fenofibrate tablets in patients who do not have an adequate response after 2 months of treatment (2.2). Renal impairment: Initial dosage of 48 mg orally once daily (2.3). Geriatric patients: Select the dosage on the basis of renal function (2.4). 2.1 Prior to Initiation of Fenofibrate tablets Assess lipid levels before initiating therapy. Identify other causes (e.g., diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, or medications) of high TG levels and manage as appropriate. Patients should be placed on an appropriate lipid-lowering diet before receiving fenofibrate tablets, and should continue this diet during treatment with fenofibrate tablets. In patients with diabetes and fasting chylomicronemia, improve glycemic control prior to considering starting fenofibrate tablets. 2.2 Recommended Dosage and Administration Severe hypertriglyceridemia: The recommended dosage of fenofibrate tablets are 48 mg or 145 mg orally once daily. Primary hyperlipidemia: The recommended dosage of fenofibrate tablets is 145 mg orally once daily. Administer fenofibrate tablets as a single dose at any time of day, with or without food. Advise patients to swallow fenofibrate tablets whole. Do not crush, break, dissolve, or chew tablets. Discontinue fenofibrate tablets in patients who do not have an adequate response after 2 months of treatment. If a dose is missed, advise patients not to take an extra dose. Resume treatment with the next dose. Advise patients to take fenofibrate tablets at least 1 hour before or 4 hours to 6 hours after a bile acid binding resin to avoid impeding its absorption. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment Assess renal function prior to initiation of fenofibrate tablets and periodically thereafter[see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Treatment with fenofibrate tablets should be initiated at a dosage of 48 mg orally once daily in patients with mild to moderately impaired renal function (eGFR 30 to <60 mL/min/1.73m2), and increased only after evaluation of the effects on renal function and TG levels at this dosage. Fenofibrate tablets is contraindicated in patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR <30 mL/min/1.73m2), including those with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and those receiving dialysis[see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2.4 Recommended Dosage in Geriatric Patients Dosage selection for geriatric patients should be made on the basis of renal function [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Patients should be placed on an appropriate lipid-lowering diet before receiving fenofibrate capsules, and should continue this diet during treatment with fenofibrate capsules. Fenofibrate capsules should be given with meals, thereby optimizing the bioavailability of the medication. For the treatment of adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed hyperlipidemia, the initial dose of fenofibrate capsules is 200 mg per day. For adult patients with hypertriglyceridemia, the initial dose is 67 to 200 mg per day. The maximum dose is 200 mg per day. Treatment with fenofibrate capsules should be initiated at a dose of 67 mg/day in patients having impaired renal function, and increased only after evaluation of the effects on renal function and lipid levels at this dose. In the elderly, the initial dose should likewise be limited to 67 mg/day. Lipid levels should be monitored periodically and consideration should be given to reducing the dosage of fenofibrate capsules if lipid levels fall significantly below the targeted range. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed dyslipidemia: Initial dose of 145 mg once daily (2.2). • Severe hypertriglyceridemia: Initial dose of 48 to 145 mg once daily. Maximum dose is 145 mg (2.3). • Renally impaired patients: Initial dose of 48 mg once daily (2.4). • Geriatric patients: Select the dose on the basis of renal function (2.5). • Maybe taken without regard to meals (2.1). 2.1 General Considerations Patients should be placed on an appropriate lipid-lowering diet before receiving fenofibrate tablets, and should continue this diet during treatment with fenofibrate tablets. Fenofibrate tablets can be given without regard to meals. Lipid levels should be monitored periodically and consideration should be given to reducing the dosage of fenofibrate tablets if lipid levels fall significantly below the targeted range. Therapy should be withdrawn in patients who do not have an adequate response after two months of treatment with the maximum recommended dose of 145 mg once daily. 2.2 Primary Hypercholesterolemia or Mixed Dyslipidemia The initial dose of fenofibrate tablets is 145 mg once daily. 2.3 Severe Hypertriglyceridemia The initial dose is 48 to 145 mg per day. The maximum dose is 145 mg once daily. 2.4 Impaired Renal Function Treatment with fenofibrate tablets should be initiated at a dose of 48 mg per day in patients having mild to moderately impaired renal function, and increased only after evaluation of the effects on renal function and lipid levels at this dose. The use of fenofibrate tablets should be avoided in patients with severe renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 2.5 Geriatric Patients Dose selection for the elderly should be made on the basis of renal function [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Severe hypertriglyceridemia: 48 to 145 mg orally once daily; the dosage should be adjusted according to patient response ( 2.2 ). • Primary hyperlipidemia: 145 mg orally once daily ( 2.2 ). • Administer as a single dose, at any time of day, with or without food ( 2.2 ). • Assess TG when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 to 8 weeks after initiating fenofibrate tablets. Discontinue fenofibrate tablets in patients who do not have an adequate response after 2 months of treatment ( 2.2 ). • Renal impairment: Initial dosage of 48 mg orally once daily ( 2.3 ). • Geriatric patients: Select the dosage on the basis of renal function ( 2.4 ). 2.1 Prior to Initiation of Fenofibrate Tablets • Assess lipid levels before initiating therapy. • Patients should be placed on an appropriate lipid-lowering diet before receiving fenofibrate tablets, and should continue this diet during treatment with fenofibrate tablets. • In patients with diabetes and fasting chylomicronemia, improve glycemic control prior to considering starting fenofibrate tablets. 2.2 Recommended Dosage and Administration • Severe hypertriglyceridemia: o The recommended dosage of fenofibrate tablets is 48 mg or 145 mg orally once daily. o Dosage should be individualized according to patient response, and should be adjusted if necessary following repeat lipid determinations at 4 to 8 week intervals. • Primary hyperlipidemia: o The recommended dosage of fenofibrate tablets is 145 mg orally once daily. • Administer fenofibrate tablets as a single dose at any time of day, with or without food. • Advise patients to swallow fenofibrate tablets whole. • If a dose is missed, advise patients not to take an extra dose. • Advise patients to take fenofibrate tablets at least 1 hour before or 4 hours to 6 hours after a bile acid binding resin to avoid impeding its absorption. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment • Assess renal function prior to initiation of fenofibrate tablets and periodically thereafter [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . • Treatment with fenofibrate tablets should be initiated at a dosage of 48 mg orally once daily in patients with mild to moderately impaired renal function (eGFR 30 to <60 mL/min/1.73m 2 ), and increased only after evaluation of the effects on renal function and TG levels at this dosage. • Fenofibrate tablets are contraindicated in patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR <30 mL/min/1.73m 2 ), including those with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and those receiving dialysis [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.4 Recommended Dosage in Geriatric Patients Dosage selection for geriatric patients should be made on the basis of renal function [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Severe hypertriglyceridemia: 48 to 145 mg orally once daily; the dosage should be adjusted according to patient response ( 2.2 ). Primary hyperlipidemia:145 mg orally once daily ( 2.2 ). Administer as a single dose, at any time of day, with or without food ( 2.2 ). Assess TG when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 to 8 weeks after initiating fenofibrate. Discontinue fenofibrate in patients who do not have an adequate response after 2 months of treatment ( 2.2 ). Renal impairment: Initial dosage of 48 mg orally once daily ( 2.3 ). Geriatric patients: Select the dosage on the basis of renal function ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Prior to Initiation of Fenofibrate Assess lipid levels before initiating therapy. Patients should be placed on an appropriate lipid-lowering diet before receiving fenofibrate, and should continue this diet during treatment with fenofibrate tablets. 2.2 Recommended Dosage and Administration Severe hypertriglyceridemia: The recommended dosage of fenofibrate tablets is 48 mg or 145 mg orally once daily. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment Assess renal function prior to initiation of fenofibrate and periodically thereafter [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . Treatment with fenofibrate tablets should be initiated at a dosage of 48 mg orally once daily in patients with mild to moderately impaired renal function (eGFR 30 to <60 mL/min/1.73m 2 ), and increased only after evaluation of the effects on renal function and TG levels at this dosage. Fenofibrate tablets are contraindicated in patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR <30 mL/min/1.73m 2 ), including those with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and those receiving dialysis [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Severe hypertriglyceridemia: Initial dose of 54 mg to 160 mg once daily. Fenofibrate tablets should be given with meals, thereby optimizing the bioavailability of the medication. 2.2 Primary Hypercholesterolemia or Mixed Dyslipidemia The initial dose of fenofibrate tablet is 160 mg once daily. 2.3 Severe Hypertriglyceridemia The initial dose is 54 mg to 160 mg per day. 2.4 Impaired Renal Function Treatment with fenofibrate tablets should be initiated at a dose of 54 mg per day in patients having mild to moderately impaired renal function, and increased only after evaluation of the effects on renal function and lipid levels at this dose. The use of fenofibrate tablets should be avoided in patients with severe renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.5 Geriatric Patients Dose selection for the elderly should be made on the basis of renal function [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed dyslipidemia: Initial dose of 145 mg once daily ( 2.2 ). Severe hypertriglyceridemia: Initial dose of 48 mg to 145 mg once daily. Maximum dose is 145 mg ( 2.3 ). Renally impaired patients: Initial dose of 48 mg once daily ( 2.4 ). May be taken without regard to meals ( 2.1 ). 2.2 Primary Hypercholesterolemia or Mixed Dyslipidemia The initial dose of fenofibrate tablets are 145 mg once daily. 2.3 Severe Hypertriglyceridemia The initial dose is 48 mg to 145 mg per day. The use of fenofibrate tablets should be avoided in patients with severe renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2.5 Geriatric Patients Dose selection for the elderly should be made on the basis of renal function [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 )]. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION • Primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed dyslipidemia: Initial dose of 145 mg once daily ( 2.2 ). • Renally impaired patients: Initial dose of 48 mg once daily ( 2.4 ). • Geriatric patients: Select the dose on the basis of renal function ( 2.5 ) • Maybe taken without regard to meals ( 2.1 ). The use of fenofibrate tablets should be avoided in patients with severe renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] 2.5 Geriatric Patients Dose selection for the elderly should be made on the basis of renal function [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 )].
Warnings: WARNINGS Hepatotoxicity: Serious drug-induced liver injury (DILI), including liver transplantation and death, have been reported postmarketing with fenofibrate. DILI has been reported within the first few weeks of treatment or after several months of therapy and in some cases has reversed with discontinuation of fenofibrate treatment. Patients with DILI have experienced signs and symptoms including dark urine, abnormal stool, jaundice, malaise, abdominal pain, myalgia, weight loss, pruritus, and nausea. Many patients had concurrent elevations of total bilirubin, serum alanine transaminase (ALT), and aspartate transaminase (AST). DILI has been characterized as hepatocellular, chronic active, and cholestatic hepatitis, and cirrhosis has occurred in association with chronic active hepatitis. In clinical trials, fenofibrate at doses equivalent to 134 mg to 200 mg fenofibrate daily has been associated with increases in serum AST or ALT. The incidence of increases in transaminases may be dose-related. Fenofibrate is contraindicated in patients with active liver disease, including those with primary biliary cirrhosis and unexplained persistent liver function abnormalities (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). Monitor patient’s liver function, including serum ALT, AST, and total bilirubin, at baseline and periodically for the duration of therapy with fenofibrate. Discontinue fenofibrate if signs or symptoms of liver injury develop or if elevated enzyme levels persist (ALT or AST > 3 times the upper limit of normal, or if accompanied by elevation of bilirubin). Do not restart fenofibrate in these patients if there is no alternative explanation for the liver injury. Cholelithiasis: Fenofibrate, like clofibrate and gemfibrozil, may increase cholesterol excretion into the bile, leading to cholelithiasis. If cholelithiasis is suspected, gallbladder studies are indicated. Fenofibrate therapy should be discontinued if gallstones are found. Concomitant Oral Anticoagulants: Caution should be exercised when anticoagulants are given in conjunction with fenofibrate because of the potentiation of coumarin-type anticoagulants in prolonging the prothrombin time/INR. The dosage of the anticoagulant should be reduced to maintain the prothrombin time/INR at the desired level to prevent bleeding complications. Frequent prothrombin time/INR determinations are advisable until it has been definitely determined that the prothrombin time/INR has stabilized. Concomitant HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: The combined use of fenofibrate and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors should be avoided unless the benefit of further alterations in lipid levels is likely to outweigh the increased risk of this drug combination. Concomitant administration of fenofibrate (equivalent to fenofibrate 200 mg) and pravastatin (40 mg) once daily for 10 days increased the mean C max and AUC values for pravastatin by 36% (range from 69% decrease to 321% increase) and 28% (range from 54% decrease to 128% increase), respectively, and for 3α-hydroxy-iso-pravastatin by 55% (range from 32% decrease to 314% increase) and 39% (range from 24% decrease to 261% increase), respectively. (See also CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Drug-drug Interactions). The combined use of fibric acid derivatives and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors has been associated, in the absences of a marked pharmacokinetic interaction, in numerous case reports, with rhabdomyolysis, markedly elevated creatine kinase (CK) levels and myoglobinuria, leading in a high proportion of cases to acute renal failure. The use of fibrates alone, including fenofibrate, may occasionally be associated with myositis, myopathy, or rhabdomyolysis. Patients receiving fenofibrate and complaining of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness should have prompt medical evaluation for myopathy, including serum creatine kinase level determination. If myopathy/myositis is suspected or diagnosed, fenofibrate therapy should be stopped. Mortality: The effect of fenofibrate on coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality and non- cardiovascular mortality has not been established. Other Considerations: The Fenofibrate Intervention and Event Lowering in Diabetes (FIELD) study was a 5-year randomized, placebo-controlled study of 9,795 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus treated with fenofibrate. Fenofibrate demonstrated a non-significant 11% relative reduction in the primary outcome of coronary heart disease events (hazard ratio [HR] 0.89, 95% CI 0.75 to 1.05, p = 0.16) and a significant 11% reduction in the secondary outcome of total cardiovascular disease events (HR 0.89 [0.80 to 0.99], p = 0.04). There was a non-significant 11% (HR 1.11 [0.95, 1.29], p = 0.18) and 19% (HR 1.19 [0.90, 1.57], p = 0.22) increase in total and coronary heart disease mortality, respectively, with fenofibrate as compared to placebo. In the Coronary Drug Project, a large study of post myocardial infarction of patients treated for 5 years with clofibrate, there was no difference in mortality seen between the clofibrate group and the placebo group. There was however, a difference in the rate of cholelithiasis and cholecystitis requiring surgery between the two groups (3.0% vs. 1.8%). Because of chemical, pharmacological, and clinical similarities between fenofibrate capsules, Atromid-S (clofibrate), and Lopid (gemfibrozil), the adverse findings in 4 large randomized, placebo-controlled clinical studies with these other fibrate drugs may also apply to fenofibrate. In a study conducted by the World Health Organization (WHO), 5000 subjects without known coronary artery disease were treated with placebo or clofibrate for 5 years and followed for an additional one year. There was a statistically significant, higher age-adjusted all-cause mortality in the clofibrate group compared with the placebo group (5.70% vs. 3.96%, p=<0.01). Excess mortality was due to a 33% increase in non-cardiovascular causes, including malignancy, post-cholecystectomy complications, and pancreatitis. This appeared to confirm the higher risk of gallbladder disease seen in clofibrate-treated patients studied in the Coronary Drug Project. The Helsinki Heart Study was a large (n=4081) study of middle-aged men without a history of coronary artery disease. Subjects received either placebo or gemfibrozil for 5 years, with a 3.5 year open extension afterward. Total mortality was numerically higher in the gemfibrozil randomization group but did not achieve statistical significance (p=0.19, 95% confidence interval for relative risk G:P=0.91 to 1.64). Although cancer deaths trended higher in the gemfibrozil group (p=0.11), cancers (excluding basal cell carcinoma) were diagnosed with equal frequency in both study groups. Due to the limited size of the study, the relative risk of death from any cause was not shown to be different than that seen in the 9 year follow-up data from World Health Organization study (RR=1.29). Similarly, the numerical excess of gallbladder surgeries in the gemfibrozil group did not differ statistically from that observed in the WHO study. A secondary prevention component of the Helsinki Heart Study enrolled middle-aged men excluded from the primary prevention study because of known or suspected coronary heart disease. Subjects received gemfibrozil or placebo for 5 years. Although cardiac deaths trended higher in the gemfibrozil group, this was not statistically significant (hazard ratio 2.2, 95% confidence interval: 0.94 to 5.05). The rate of gallbladder surgery was not statistically significant between study groups, but did trend higher in the gemfibrozil group, (1.9% vs. 0.3%, p=0.07). There was a statistically significant difference in the number of appendectomies in the gemfibrozil group (6/311 vs. 0/317, p=0.029). WARNINGS Liver Function Fenofibrate capsules at doses equivalent to 134 mg to 200 mg fenofibrate per day has been associated with increases in serum transaminases [AST (SGOT) or ALT (SGPT)]. In a pooled analysis of 10 placebo controlled trials, increases to > 3 times the upper limit of normal occurred in 5.3% of patients taking fenofibrate versus 1.1% of patients treated with placebo. When transaminase determinations were followed either after discontinuation of treatment or during continued treatment, a return to normal limits was usually observed. The incidence of increases in transaminase related to fenofibrate therapy appear to be dose related. In an 8 week dose-ranging study, the incidence of ALT or AST elevations to at least three times the upper limit of normal was 13% in patients receiving dosages equivalent to 134 mg to 200 mg fenofibrate per day and was 0% in those receiving dosages equivalent to 34 mg or 67 mg of fenofibrate per day or placebo. Hepatocellular, chronic active and cholestatic hepatitis associated with fenofibrate therapy have been reported after exposures of weeks to several years. In extremely rare cases, cirrhosis has been reported in association with chronic active hepatitis. Regular periodic monitoring of liver function, including serum ALT (SGPT) should be performed for the duration of therapy with fenofibrate, and therapy discontinued if enzyme levels persist above three times the normal limit. Cholelithiasis Fenofibrate, like clofibrate and gemfibrozil, may increase cholesterol excretion into the bile, leading to cholelithiasis. Concomitant Oral Anticoagulants Caution should be exercised when anticoagulants are given in conjunction with fenofibrate because of the potentiation of coumarin-type anticoagulants in prolonging the prothrombin time/INR. The dosage of the anticoagulant should be reduced to maintain the prothrombin time/lNR at the desired level to prevent bleeding complications. Concomitant HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors The combined use of fenofibrate and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors should be avoided unless the benefit of further alterations in lipid levels is likely to outweigh the increased risk of this drug combination. (See also CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Drug-drug interactions .) The combined use of fibric acid derivatives and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors has been associated, in the absences of a marked pharmacokinetic interaction, in numerous case reports, with rhabdomyolysis, markedly elevated creatine kinase (CK) levels and myoglobinuria, leading in a high proportion of cases to acute renal failure. The use of fibrates alone, including fenofibrate capsules may occasionally be associated with myositis, myopathy, or rhabdomyolysis. Mortality The effect of fenofibrate on coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality and noncardiovascular mortality has not been established. Other Considerations The Fenofibrate Intervention and Event Lowering in Diabetes (FIELD) study was a 5 year randomized, placebo-controlled study of 9,795 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus treated with fenofibrate. Fenofibrate demonstrated a non-significant 11% relative reduction in the primary outcome of coronary heart disease events (hazard ratio [HR] 0.89, 95% CI 0.75 to 1.05, p=0.16) and a significant 11% reduction in the secondary outcome of total cardiovascular disease events (HR 0.89 [0.80 to 0.99], p=0.04). There was a non-significant 11% (HR 1.11 [0.95, 1.29], p=0.18) and 19% (HR 1.19 [0.90, 1.57], p=0.22) increase in total and coronary heart disease mortality, respectively, with fenofibrate as compared to placebo. Because of chemical, pharmacological, and clinical similarities between fenofibrate, clofibrate, and gemfibrozil, the adverse findings in 4 large randomized, placebo-controlled clinical studies with these other fibrate drugs may also apply to fenofibrate. In a study conducted by the World Health Organization (WHO), 5,000 subjects without known coronary artery disease were treated with placebo or clofibrate for 5 years and followed for an additional one year. 3.96%, p=< 0.01). The Helsinki Heart Study was a large (n=4,081) study of middle-aged men without a history of coronary artery disease. Total mortality was numerically higher in the gemfibrozil randomization group but did not achieve statistical significance (p=0.19, 95% confidence interval for relative risk G:P=0.91-1.64). A secondary prevention component of the Helsinki Heart Study enrolled middle aged men excluded from the primary prevention study because of known or suspected coronary heart disease.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Severe renal dysfunction, including dialysis patients ( 4 , 8.6 , 12.3 ). Active liver disease ( 4 , 5.3 ). Gallbladder disease ( 4 , 5.5 ). Known hypersensitivity to fenofibrate ( 4 ). Nursing mothers ( 4 , 8.2 ). Fenofibrate is contraindicated in: patients with severe renal impairment, including those receiving dialysis [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )] . patients with active liver disease, including those with primary biliary cirrhosis and unexplained persistent liver function abnormalities [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.2 )] . patients with preexisting gallbladder disease [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.5 )] . nursing mothers [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.2 )] patients with known hypersensitivity to fenofibrate or fenofibric acid [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.9 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Fenofibrate is contraindicated in patients with: Severe renal impairment, including those with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and those receiving dialysis [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Active liver disease, including those with unexplained persistent liver function abnormalities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Pre-existing gallbladder disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Hypersensitivity to fenofibrate, fenofibric acid, or any of the excipients in fenofibrate tablets. Serious hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis and angioedema have been reported with fenofibrate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ]. Severe renal impairment, including those with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and those receiving dialysis (4). Active liver disease including those with unexplained persistent liver function abnormalities (4). Pre-existing gallbladder disease (4). Hypersensitivity to fenofibrate, fenofibric acid, or any of the excipients in fenofibrate tablets (4) . CONTRAINDICATIONS Fenofibrate capsules are contraindicated in patients who exhibit hypersensitivity to fenofibrate. Fenofibrate capsules are contraindicated in patients with hepatic or severe renal dysfunction, including primary biliary cirrhosis, and patients with unexplained persistent liver function abnormality. Fenofibrate capsules are contraindicated in patients with preexisting gallbladder disease (see WARNINGS ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Fenofibrate is contraindicated in: • patients with severe renal impairment, including those receiving dialysis [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . • patients with active liver disease, including those with primary biliary cirrhosis and unexplained persistent liver function abnormalities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . • patients with preexisting gallbladder disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] . • nursing mothers [see Use in Specific Populations (8.2)] . • patients with known hypersensitivity to fenofibrate or fenofibric acid [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] . • Severe renal dysfunction, including dialysis patients (4, 8.6, 12.3). • Active liver disease (4, 5.3). • Gallbladder disease (4, 5.5). • Known hypersensitivity to fenofibrate (4). • Nursing mothers (4, 8.2). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Fenofibrate tablets are contraindicated in patients with: • Severe renal impairment, including those with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and those receiving dialysis [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . • Active liver disease, including those with unexplained persistent liver function abnormalities [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . • Pre-existing gallbladder disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )]. • Hypersensitivity to fenofibrate, fenofibric acid, or any of the excipients in fenofibrate tablets. Serious hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis and angioedema have been reported with fenofibrate [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )]. • Severe renal impairment, including those with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and those receiving dialysis ( 4 ). • Active liver disease including those with unexplained persistent liver function abnormalities ( 4 ). • Pre-existing gallbladder disease ( 4 ). • Hypersensitivity to fenofibrate, fenofibric acid, or any of the excipients in fenofibrate tablets ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Fenofibrate is contraindicated in patients with: Severe renal impairment, including those with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and those receiving dialysis [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Active liver disease, including those with unexplained persistent liver function abnormalities [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Pre-existing gallbladder disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . Serious hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis and angioedema have been reported with fenofibrate [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] . Severe renal impairment, including those with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and those receiving dialysis ( 4 ). Active liver disease including those with unexplained persistent liver function abnormalities ( 4 ). Pre-existing gallbladder disease ( 4 ). Hypersensitivity to fenofibrate, fenofibric acid, or any of the excipients in fenofibrate ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Fenofibrate tablet is contraindicated in: patients with severe renal impairment, including those receiving dialysis [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . patients with active liver disease, including those with primary biliary cirrhosis and unexplained persistent liver function abnormalities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . patients with preexisting gallbladder disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . nursing mothers [see Use in Specific Populations (8.2 )] patients with known hypersensitivity to fenofibrate or fenofibric acid [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . Severe renal dysfunction, including dialysis patients ( 4 , 8.6, 12.3 ). Active liver disease ( 4 , 5.2 ). Gallbladder disease ( 4, 5.5 ). Nursing mothers ( 4, 8.2 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Fenofibrate tablets are contraindicated in: patients with severe renal impairment, including those receiving dialysis [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. patients with active liver disease, including those with primary biliary cirrhosis and unexplained persistent liver function abnormalities [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. patients with preexisting gallbladder disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )]. Severe renal dysfunction, including dialysis patients ( 4 , 8.6 , 12.3 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Fenofibrate tablets are contraindicated in: • patients with severe renal impairment, including those receiving dialysis [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. • patients with active liver disease, including those with primary biliary cirrhosis and unexplained persistent liver function abnormalities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. • patients with preexisting gallbladder disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. • nursing mothers [see Use in Specific Populations (8.3)]. • patients with known hypersensitivity to fenofibrate or fenofibric acid [see Warnings and Precautions(5.9)]. • Severe renal dysfunction, including patients receiving dialysis ( 4 , 8.6 , 12.3 ). • Active liver disease ( 4 , 5.3 ) • Gallbladder disease ( 4 , 5.5 ). • Known hypersensitivity to fenofibrate ( 4 ). • Nursing mothers ( 4 , 8.3 ).
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Coumarin anticoagulants: ( 7.1 ). Immunosuppressants: ( 7.2 ). Bile acid resins: ( 7.3 ). 7.1 Coumarin Anticoagulants Potentiation of coumarin-type anticoagulant effects has been observed with prolongation of the PT/INR. Caution should be exercised when coumarin anticoagulants are given in conjunction with fenofibrate. The dosage of the anticoagulants should be reduced to maintain the PT/INR at the desired level to prevent bleeding complications. Frequent PT/INR determinations are advisable until it has been definitely determined that the PT/INR has stabilized [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.6)] . 7.2 Immunosuppressants Immunosuppressants such as cyclosporine and tacrolimus can produce nephrotoxicity with decreases in creatinine clearance and rises in serum creatinine, and because renal excretion is the primary elimination route of fibrate drugs including fenofibrate, there is a risk that an interaction will lead to deterioration of renal function. The benefits and risks of using fenofibrate tablet with immunosuppressants and other potentially nephrotoxic agents should be carefully considered, and the lowest effective dose employed and renal function monitored. 7.3 Bile Acid Binding Resins Since bile acid binding resins may bind other drugs given concurrently, patients should take fenofibrate at least 1 hour before or 4 to 6 hours after a bile acid binding resin to avoid impeding its absorption. 7.4 Colchicine Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with fenofibrates co administered with colchicine, and caution should be exercised when prescribing fenofibrate with colchicine. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 2 presents clinically important drug interactions with fenofibrate. Table 2. Clinically Important Drug Interactions with fenofibrate Statins Clinical Impact: Fibrates may cause myopathy when given alone. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of fibrates with statins. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using fenofibrate concomitantly with statin therapy outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. If concomitant use is decided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy, particularly during initiation of therapy and during upward dosage titration of statin therapy. Colchicine Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with concomitant use of colchicine with fenofibrates. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using colchicine concomitantly with fenofibrate outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. If concomitant use is decided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy, particularly during initiation of therapy and during upward dosage titration of colchicine. Coumarin Anticoagulants Clinical Impact: Fibrates may cause potentiation of coumarin-type anticoagulant effects with prolongation of the PT/INR. Intervention: Caution should be exercised when coumarin anticoagulants are given in conjunction with fenofibrate tablets. Frequent PT/INR determinations are advisable until it has been definitely determined that the PT/INR has stabilized. Immunosuppressants Clinical Impact: Immunosuppressants such as cyclosporine and tacrolimus can produce nephrotoxicity with decreases in creatinine clearance and rises in serum creatinine, and because renal excretion is the primary elimination route of fibrate drugs including fenofibrate, there is a risk that an interaction will lead to deterioration of renal function. Intervention: The benefits and risks of using fenofibrate tablets with immunosuppressants and other potentially nephrotoxic agents should be carefully considered, and the lowest effective dosage employed and renal function monitored. Bile-Acid Binding Resins Clinical Impact: Bile-acid binding resins may bind other drugs given concurrently. Intervention: In patients taking a bile acid resin, administer fenofibrate tablets at least 1 hour before or 4 to 6 hours after the bile acid resin to avoid impeding its absorption. Consider if the benefit of concomitant use of statins or colchicine outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy (7) . Exercise caution in concomitant treatment with coumarin anticoagulants. Reduce the dosage of coumarin to maintain the PT/INR at the desired level to prevent bleeding complications (7) . Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use with immunosuppressants and other potentially nephrotoxic agents. Use the lowest effective dosage and monitor renal function (7) . Administer fenofibrate at least 1 hour before or 4 to 6 hours after a bile acid resin to avoid impeding its absorption (7) . Drug Interactions Oral Anticoagulants: CAUTION SHOULD BE EXERCISED WHEN COUMARIN ANTICOAGULANTS ARE GIVEN IN CONJUNCTION WITH FENOFIBRATE. THE DOSAGE OF THE ANTICOAGULANTS SHOULD BE REDUCED TO MAINTAIN THE PROTHROMBIN TIME/INR AT THE DESIRED LEVEL TO PREVENT BLEEDING COMPLICATIONS. FREQUENT PROTHROMBIN TIME/INR DETERMINATIONS ARE ADVISABLE UNTIL IT HAS BEEN DEFINITELY DETERMINED THAT THE PROTHROMBIN TIME/INR HAS STABILIZED. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: The combined use of fenofibrate and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors should be avoided unless the benefit of further alterations in lipid levels is likely to outweigh the increased risk of this drug combination (see WARNINGS ). Resins: Since bile acid sequestrants may bind other drugs given concurrently, patients should take fenofibrate at least 1 hour before or 4 to 6 hours after a bile acid binding resin to avoid impeding its absorption. Cyclosporine: Because cyclosporine can produce nephrotoxicity with decreases in creatinine clearance and rises in serum creatinine, and because renal excretion is the primary elimination route of fibrate drugs including fenofibrate, there is a risk that an interaction will lead to deterioration. The benefits and risks of using fenofibrate with immunosuppressants and other potentially nephrotoxic agents should be carefully considered, and the lowest effective dose employed. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Coumarin anticoagulants: (7.1). • Immunosuppressants: (7.2). • Bile acid resins: (7.3). The benefits and risks of using fenofibrate tablets with immunosuppressants and other potentially nephrotoxic agents should be carefully considered, and the lowest effective dose employed and renal function monitored. 7.4 Colchicine Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with fenofibrates co-administered with colchicine, and caution should be exercised when prescribing fenofibrate with colchicine. Drug Interactions Oral Anticoagulants CAUTION SHOULD BE EXERCISED WHEN COUMARIN ANTICOAGULANTS ARE GIVEN IN CONJUNCTION WITH FENOFIBRATE CAPSULES. HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors The combined use of fenofibrate and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors should be avoided unless the benefit of further alterations in lipid levels is likely to outweigh the increased risk of this drug combination (see WARNINGS ). Resins Since bile acid sequestrants may bind other drugs given concurrently, patients should take fenofibrate capsules at least 1 hour before or 4 to 6 hours after a bile acid binding resin to avoid impeding its absorption. Cyclosporine Because cyclosporine can produce nephrotoxicity with decreases in creatinine clearance and rises in serum creatinine, and because renal excretion is the primary elimination route of fibrate drugs including fenofibrate, there is a risk that an interaction will lead to deterioration. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 2 presents clinically important drug interactions with fenofibrate tablets. Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Fenofibrate Tablets Statins Clinical Impact: Fibrates may cause myopathy when given alone. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using fenofibrate tablets concomitantly with statin therapy outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Colchicine Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with concomitant use of colchicine with fenofibrates. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using colchicine concomitantly with fenofibrate tablets outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Frequent PT/INR determinations are advisable until it has been definitely determined that the PT/INR has stabilized Immunosuppressants Clinical Impact: Immunosuppressants such as cyclosporine and tacrolimus can produce nephrotoxicity with decreases in creatinine clearance and rises in serum creatinine, and because renal excretion is the primary elimination route of fibrate drugs including fenofibrate tablets, there is a risk that an interaction will lead to deterioration of renal function. • Consider if the benefit of concomitant use of statins or colchicine outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy ( 7 ). • Exercise caution in concomitant treatment with coumarin anticoagulants. Reduce the dosage of coumarin to maintain the PT/INR at the desired level to prevent bleeding complications ( 7 ). • Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use with immunosuppressants and other potentially nephrotoxic agents. Use the lowest effective dosage and monitor renal function ( 7 ). • Administer fenofibrate tablets at least 1 hour before or 4 to 6 hours after a bile acid resin to avoid impeding its absorption ( 7 ). Table 2: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Fenofibrate Statins Clinical Impact: Fibrates may cause myopathy when given alone. Colchicine Clinical Impact : Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with concomitant use of colchicine with fenofibrates. Coumarin Anticoagulants Clinical Impact : Fibrates may cause potentiation of coumarin-type anticoagulant effects with prolongation of the PT/INR. Intervention: Caution should be exercised when coumarin anticoagulants are given in conjunction with fenofibrate. Frequent PT/INR determinations are advisable until it has been definitely determined that the PT/INR has stabilized Immunosuppressants Clinical Impact : Immunosuppressants such as cyclosporine and tacrolimus can produce nephrotoxicity with decreases in creatinine clearance and rises in serum creatinine, and because renal excretion is the primary elimination route of fibrate drugs including fenofibrate, there is a risk that an interaction will lead to deterioration of renal function. Intervention: The benefits and risks of using fenofibrate with immunosuppressants and other potentially nephrotoxic agents should be carefully considered, and the lowest effective dosage employed and renal function monitored. Bile-Acid Binding Resins Clinical Impact : Bile-acid binding resins may bind other drugs given concurrently. Intervention: In patients taking a bile acid resin, administer fenofibrate at least 1 hour before or 4 to 6 hours after the bile acid resin to avoid impeding its absorption. Administer fenofibrate at least 1 hour before or 4 to 6 hours after a bile acid resin to avoid impeding its absorption ( 7 ). Frequent PT/INR determinations are advisable until it has been definitely determined that the PT/INR has stabilized [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . The benefits and risks of using fenofibrate with immunosuppressants and other potentially nephrotoxic agents should be carefully considered, and the lowest effective dose employed and renal function monitored. Frequent PT/INR determinations are advisable until it has been definitely determined that the PT/INR has stabilized [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )]. Caution should be exercised when coumarin anticoagulants are given in conjunction with fenofibrate tablets. Frequent PT/INR determinations are advisable until it has been definitely determined that the PT/INR has stabilized [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] . 7.2 Immunosuppressants Immunosuppessants such as cyclosporine and tacrolimus can produce nephrotoxicity with decreases in creatinine clearance and rises in serum creatinine, and because renal excretion is the primary elimination route of fibrate drugs including fenofibrate tablets, there is a risk that an interaction will lead to deterioration of renal function. 7.3 Bile Acid Binding Resins Since bile acid binding resins may bind other drugs given concurrently, patients should take fenofibrate tablets at least 1 hour before or 4 to 6 hours after a bile acid binding resin to avoid impeding its absorption. 7.4 Colchicine Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with fenofibrate co-administered with colchicine, and caution should be exercised when prescribing fenofibrate with colchicine.

=== DEXTROMETHORPHAN HBR ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purposes Pain reliever/fever reducer Cough suppressant Nasal decongestant Purpose Cough Suppressant Expectorant Purpose Pain reliever/fever reducer Cough suppressant Nasal decongestant Active ingredients (in each 20 mL) Purposes Dextromethorphan HBr 20 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 400 mg Expectorant Phenylephrine HCl 10 mg Nasal decongestant Purposes Pain reliever/Fever reducer Cough suppressant Purposes Pain reliever/Fever reducer Antihistamine Cough suppressant Purposes Antihistamine Cough suppressant Purposes Pain reliever/fever reducer Cough suppressant Antihistamine Purposes Cough suppressant Expectorant Purpose Cough suppressant Purpose Acetaminophen ........................Pain reliever/Fever reducer Dextromethorphan HBr .............Cough suppressant Doxylamine succinate ............... Antihistamine
Indications: Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to a cold minor aches and pains headache nasal and sinus congestion sore throat cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation temporarily reduces fever Uses Uses: temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to drain bronchial tubes. Uses • temporarily relieves common cold/flu symptoms: • nasal congestion • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation • sore throat • headache • minor aches and pains • fever Uses helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive temporarily relieves: cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants the intensity of coughing the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep nasal congestion due to a cold Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to a common cold or flu: headache minor aches and pains cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation minor sore throat pain temporarily reduces fever Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to a common cold or flu: headache minor aches and pains cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation minor sore throat pain runny nose temporarily reduces fever Uses • temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold • temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: • runny nose • sneezing • itchy, watery eyes • itching of the nose or throat Uses temporarily relieves these common cold/flu symptoms minor aches and pains headache sore throat fever runny nose and sneezing cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation Uses temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to drain bronchial tubes Use temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold Uses temporarily relieves common cold/flu symptoms: ■ cough due to minor throat & bronchial irritation ■ sore throat ■ headache ■ minor aches and pain ■ fever ■ runny nose and sneezing
Dosage: Directions do not take more than directed (see overdose warning ) do not take more than 6 doses (180 mL) in any 24-hour period measure only with dosing cup provided. Do not use any other dosing device. mL= milliliter keep dosing cup with product adults and children 12 years and over 30 mL every 4 hours chlldren under 12 years of age: do not use Directions Do not give more than 6 doses in any 24 hours period  shake well before use  measure only with dosing cup provided  keep dosing cup with product  mL = milliliter Age Dose Children 6 to under 12 years of age 5 mL every 4 hours Children 4 to under 6 years of age 2.5 mL every 4 hours Children under 4 years of age Do not use Directions • take only as directed – see Overdose warning • only use the dose cup provided • do not exceed 4 doses per 24 hrs adults & children 12 yrs & over 30 mL every 4 hrs children 6 to under 12 yrs 15 mL every 4 hrs children 4 to under 6 yrs ask a doctor children under 4 yrs do not use Directions do not take more than 6 doses in any 24-hour period measure only with dosing cup provided do not use dosing cup with other products dose as follows or as directed by a doctor mL = milliliter adults and children 12 years of age and older: 20 mL in dosing cup provided every 4 hours. children under 12 years of age: Do not use. Directions do not use more than directed take every 6 hours, while symptoms persist. Do not take more than 3 packets in 24 hours unless directed by a doctor. Age Dose adults and children 12 years of age and over one packet children under 12 years of age do not use dissolve contents of one packet into 8 oz. hot water; sip while hot. Consume the entire drink within 10-15 minutes. if using a microwave, add contents of one packet to 8 oz. of cool water; stir briskly before and after heating. Do not overheat. Consume entire drink within 10-15 minutes. Do not overheat Directions • SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING • measure only with dosing cup provided • keep dosing cup with product • mL = milliliter • do not take more than 4 doses in any 24-hour period Age Dose Adults and children 12 years and older 20 mL every 6 hours Children 6 to under 12 years 10 mL every 6 hours Children under 6 years do not use Directions do not take more than directed (see Overdose warning) do not take more than 4 doses in any 24-hour period measure only with dosing cup provided. mL = milliliter keep dosing cup with product adults and children 12 years and over: 30 mL every 6 hours children under 12 years of age: do not use when using other Daytime or Nighttime products, carefully read each label to ensure correct dosing Directions do not take more than 6 doses in any 24-hour period measure only with dosing cup provided keep dosing cup with product mL = milliliter this adult product is not intended for use in children under 12 years of age age dose adults and children 12 years and over 20 mL every 4 hours children under 12 years do not use Directions do not take more than 8 capsules in any 24-hour period this adult product is not intended for use in children under 12 years of age adults and children 12 years of age and over take 2 capsules every 6 to 8 hours, as needed children under 12 years of age do not use Directions ■ take only as directed (see Warning) ■ do not exceed 4 doses per 24 hours adults & children 12 yrs & over 2 soft gels with water every 6 hours children 4 to under 12 years: ask a doctor children under 4 years: do not use ■ When using other Daytime or Nighttime products, carefully read each label to ensure correct dosing.
Warnings: Warnings Liver warning: This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take: more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may inclide: skin reddening blisters rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Sore throat warning: If sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease) or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product. with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or non-prescription). If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen, ask a doctor or pharmacist. Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease heart disease diabetes high blood pressure thyroid disease trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, or emphysema Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin. When using this product, do not exceed recommended dosage Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occur pain, cough, or nasal congestion gets worse or lasts more than 7 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur cough comes back or occurs with a rash or headache that lasts. These could be signs of a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. Overdose warning: Taking more than the recommended dose (overdose) may cause liver damage. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. Warnings Do not use in child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional condition, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your child’s prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product. Severe liver damage may occur if • adult takes more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours • child takes more than 5 doses in 24 hours • taken with other drugs containing acetaminophen • adult has 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: • skin reddening • blisters • rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Do not use • with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have • liver disease • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, or emphysema Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • you get nervous, dizzy or sleepless • pain, nasal congestion or cough gets worse or lasts more than 5 days (children) or 7 days (adults) • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • redness or swelling is present • new symptoms occur • cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts. Overdose warning: In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease high blood pressure thyroid disease diabetes trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis or emphysema cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness or sleeplessness occur symptoms do not get better within 7 days or occur with fever cough comes back, or occurs with rash or persistent headache. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222) Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Sore throat warning: If sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting consult a doctor promptly. Do not use in a child under 12 years of age if you are allergic to acetaminophen with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking, asthma, or emphysema Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage. Stop use and ask a doctor if pain or cough gets worse or lasts more than 7 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts. Prompt medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. If you do not know if your prescription drug contains a MAO, ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product. Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease glaucoma trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking, asthma, or emphysema Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product avoid alcoholic drinks marked drowsiness may occur alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery excitability may occur, especially in children Stop use and ask a doctor if pain or cough gets worse or lasts more than 7 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts. Warnings Do not use • to sedate a child or make a child sleepy • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product Ask a doctor before use if you have • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • glaucoma • a cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) • a breathing problem or chronic cough that lasts or as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis or emphysema Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product • Do not use more than directed • marked drowsiness may occur • avoid alcoholic drinks • alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness • be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery • excitability may occur, especially in children Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days, comes back, or is accompanied by fever, rash, or persistent headache. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Severe liver damage may occur if you take: more than 4000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks everyday while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Sore throat warning: If sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or is followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen, ask a doctor or pharmacist Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease glaucoma cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) a breathing problem or chronic cough that lasts or as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema trouble urinating due to enlarged prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers the blood thinning drug warfarin When using this product excitability may occur, especially in children marked drowsiness may occur avoid alcoholic drinks be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery alcohol, sedatives and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness Stop use and ask a doctor if pain or cough gets worse or last more than 7 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts. These could be a signs of a serious conditions. Overdose warning : Taking more than the recommended dose (overdose) may cause liver damage. Warnings Ask a doctor before use if the user has a cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) a cough that lasts or is chronic as occurs with smoking, asthma, or emphysema Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts for more than 7 days, comes back, or is accompanied by fever, rash, or persistent headache. Warnings Liver warning : This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take ■ more than 4doses in 24 hrs, which is the maximum daily amount for this product ■ with other drugs containing acetaminophen ■ 3 or more alcoholic drinks daily while using this product. Allergy Alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include ■ skin reddening ■ blisters ■ rash. If skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Sore throat warning : If sore throat is severe, lasts for more than 2 days, occurs with or is followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly.

=== NITROGEN ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose First aid antiseptic
Indications: Uses first aid to help prevent the risk of infection in minor cuts, scrapes and burns helps relieve minor muscular aches due to exertion
Dosage: Directions clean the affected area apply a small amount of product on the affected area 1 to 3 times a day may be covered with a sterile bandage if bandaged, let dry first
Warnings: Warnings For external use only. Flammable, keep away from heat, spark, electrical, fire or flame will produce serious gastric disturbances if taken internally Do not use in the eyes or apply over large areas of the body longer than 1 week do not inhale Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds, animal bites or serious burns. Stop use and ask a doctor if the condition persists or gets worse irritation, pain, or redness persists or worsens swelling, rash, or fever develops Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.

=== TADALAFIL ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tadalafil is a phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of: erectile dysfunction (ED) ( 1.1 ) the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) ( 1.2 ) ED and the signs and symptoms of BPH (ED/BPH) ( 1.3 ) If tadalafil is used with finasteride to initiate BPH treatment, such use is recommended for up to 26 weeks ( 1.4 ). 1.1 Erectile Dysfunction Tadalafil tablets are indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED). 1.2 Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia Tadalafil tablets are indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). 1.3 Erectile Dysfunction and Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia Tadalafil tablets are indicated for the treatment of ED and the signs and symptoms of BPH (ED/BPH). 1.4 Limitation of Use If tadalafil tablets are used with finasteride to initiate BPH treatment, such use is recommended for up to 26 weeks because the incremental benefit of tadalafil tablets decreases from 4 weeks until 26 weeks, and the incremental benefit of tadalafil tablets beyond 26 weeks is unknown [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tadalafil is a phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of: erectile dysfunction (ED) (1.1) the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) (1.2) ED and the signs and symptoms of BPH (ED/BPH) (1.3) If tadalafil tablets are used with finasteride to initiate BPH treatment, such use is recommended for up to 26 weeks ( 1.4 ). 1.4 Limitation of Use If tadalafil tablets are used with finasteride to initiate BPH treatment, such use is recommended for up to 26 weeks because the incremental benefit of tadalafil tablets decreases from 4 weeks until 26 weeks, and the incremental benefit of tadalafil tablets beyond 26 weeks is unknown [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tadalafil tablets are a phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of: • erectile dysfunction (ED) ( 1.1 ) • the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) ( 1.2 ) • ED and the signs and symptoms of BPH (ED/BPH) ( 1.3 ) If tadalafil tablets are used with finasteride to initiate BPH treatment, such use is recommended for up to 26 weeks ( 1.4 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tadalafil is a phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of: erectile dysfunction (ED) ( 1.1 ) the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) ( 1.2 ) ED and the signs and symptoms of BPH (ED/BPH) ( 1.3 ) If tadalafil tablets are used with finasteride to initiate BPH treatment, such use is recommended for up to 26 weeks ( 1.4 ). 1.4 Limitation of Use If tadalafil tablets are used with finasteride to initiate BPH treatment, such use is recommended for up to 26 weeks because the incremental benefit of tadalafil decreases from 4 weeks until 26 weeks, and the incremental benefit of tadalafil beyond 26 weeks is unknown [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . 1.4 Limitation of Use If tadalafil is used with finasteride to initiate BPH treatment, such use is recommended for up to 26 weeks because the incremental benefit of tadalafil decreases from 4 weeks until 26 weeks, and the incremental benefit of tadalafil beyond 26 weeks is unknown [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tadalafil is a phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) (WHO Group 1) to improve exercise ability. Studies establishing effectiveness included predominately patients with NYHA Functional Class II to III symptoms and etiologies of idiopathic or heritable PAH (61%) or PAH associated with connective tissue diseases (23%). (1.1) 1.1 Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension Tadalafil tablets are indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) (WHO Group 1) to improve exercise ability. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tadalafil tablets are a phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of: erectile dysfunction (ED) ( 1.1 ) the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) ( 1.2 ) ED and the signs and symptoms of BPH (ED/BPH) ( 1.3 ) If tadalafil tablets are used with finasteride to initiate BPH treatment, such use is recommended for up to 26 weeks ( 1.4 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tadalafil tablets are a phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of: erectile dysfunction (ED) (1.1) the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) (1.2) ED and the signs and symptoms of BPH (ED/BPH) (1.3) If tadalafil tablets are used with finasteride to initiate BPH treatment, such use is recommended for up to 26 weeks (1.4) .
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Do not split tadalafil tablets; entire dose should be taken. Tadalafil tablets for use as needed: ED: Starting dose: 10 mg as needed prior to sexual activity. Increase to 20 mg or decrease to 5 mg based upon efficacy/tolerability. Improves erectile function compared to placebo up to 36 hours post dose. Not to be taken more than once per day ( 2.1 ). Tadalafil tablets for once daily use: ED: 2.5 mg taken once daily, without regard to timing of sexual activity. May increase to 5 mg based upon efficacy and tolerability ( 2.2 ). BPH: 5 mg, taken at approximately the same time every day ( 2.3 ) ED and BPH: 5 mg, taken at approximately the same time every day ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) Tadalafil tablets may be taken without regard to food ( 2.5 ). 2.1 Tadalafil Tablets for Use as Needed for Erectile Dysfunction The recommended starting dose of tadalafil tablets for use as needed in most patients is 10 mg, taken prior to anticipated sexual activity. The dose may be increased to 20 mg or decreased to 5 mg, based on individual efficacy and tolerability. The maximum recommended dosing frequency is once per day in most patients. Tadalafil tablets for use as needed were shown to improve erectile function compared to placebo up to 36 hours following dosing. Therefore, when advising patients on optimal use of tadalafil tablets, this should be taken into consideration. 2.2 Tadalafil Tablets for Once Daily Use for Erectile Dysfunction The recommended starting dose of tadalafil tablets for once daily use is 2.5 mg, taken at approximately the same time every day, without regard to timing of sexual activity. The tadalafil tablets dose for once daily use may be increased to 5 mg, based on individual efficacy and tolerability. 2.3 Tadalafil Tablets for Once Daily Use for Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia The recommended dose of tadalafil tablets for once daily use is 5 mg, taken at approximately the same time every day. When therapy for BPH is initiated with tadalafil and finasteride, the recommended dose of tadalafil tablets for once daily use is 5 mg, taken at approximately the same time every day for up to 26 weeks. 2.4 Tadalafil Tablets for Once Daily Use for Erectile Dysfunction and Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia The recommended dose of tadalafil tablets for once daily use is 5 mg, taken at approximately the same time every day, without regard to timing of sexual activity. 2.5 Use with Food Tadalafil tablets may be taken without regard to food. 2.6 Use in Specific Populations Renal Impairment Tadalafil Tablets for Use as Needed Creatinine clearance 30 to 50 mL/min: A starting dose of 5 mg not more than once per day is recommended, and the maximum dose is 10 mg not more than once in every 48 hours. Creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min or on hemodialysis: The maximum dose is 5 mg not more than once in every 72 hours [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )] . Tadalafil Tablets for Once Daily Use Erectile Dysfunction Creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min or on hemodialysis: Tadalafil tablets for once daily use is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )] . Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia and Erectile Dysfunction/Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia Creatinine clearance 30 to 50 mL/min: A starting dose of 2.5 mg is recommended. An increase to 5 mg may be considered based on individual response. Creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min or on hemodialysis: Tadalafil tablets for once daily use is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )] . Hepatic Impairment Tadalafil tablets for Use as Needed Mild or moderate (Child Pugh Class A or B): The dose should not exceed 10 mg once per day. The use of tadalafil tablets once per day has not been extensively evaluated in patients with hepatic impairment and therefore, caution is advised. Severe (Child Pugh Class C): The use of tadalafil tablets is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . Tadalafil tablets for Once Daily Use Mild or moderate (Child Pugh Class A or B): Tadalafil tablets for once daily use has not been extensively evaluated in patients with hepatic impairment. Therefore, caution is advised if tadalafil tablets for once daily use is prescribed to these patients. Severe (Child Pugh Class C): The use of tadalafil tablet is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . 2.7 Concomitant Medications Nitrates Concomitant use of nitrates in any form is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4.1 )] . Alpha-Blockers ED —When tadalafil tablets are co-administered with an alpha-blocker in patients being treated for ED, patients should be stable on alpha-blocker therapy prior to initiating treatment, and tadalafil tablets should be initiated at the lowest recommended dose [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . BPH — Tadalafil tablets are not recommended for use in combination with alpha-blockers for the treatment of BPH [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . CYP3A4 Inhibitors Tadalafil tablets for Use as Needed — For patients taking concomitant potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as ketoconazole or ritonavir, the maximum recommended dose of tadalafil tablets is 10 mg, not to exceed once every 72 hours [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )] . Tadalafil tablets for Once Daily Use — For patients taking concomitant potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as ketoconazole or ritonavir, the maximum recommended dose is 2.5 mg [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )] . Not to be taken more than once per day (2.1) . May increase to 5 mg based upon efficacy and tolerability (2.2) . BPH: 5 mg, taken at approximately the same time every day (2.3) ED and BPH: 5 mg, taken at approximately the same time every day (2.3, 2.4) Tadalafil tablets may be taken without regard to food (2.5) . When therapy for BPH is initiated with tadalafil tablets and finasteride, the recommended dose of tadalafil tablets for once daily use is 5 mg, taken at approximately the same time every day for up to 26 weeks. Creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min or on hemodialysis: The maximum dose is 5 mg not more than once in every 72 hours [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) and Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] . Tadalafil Tablets for Once Daily Use Erectile Dysfunction Creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min or on hemodialysis: Tadalafil tablets for once daily use is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) and Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] . Creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min or on hemodialysis: Tadalafil tablets for once daily use is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) and Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] . Severe (Child Pugh Class C): The use of tadalafil tablets is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . Tadalafil Tablets f or Once Daily Use Mild or moderate (Child Pugh Class A or B): Tadalafil tablets for once daily use has not been extensively evaluated in patients with hepatic impairment. 2.7 Concomitant Medications Nitrates Concomitant use of nitrates in any form is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4.1) ] . Alpha-Blockers ED — When tadalafil tablets are coadministered with an alpha-blocker in patients being treated for ED, patients should be stable on alpha-blocker therapy prior to initiating treatment, and tadalafil tablets should be initiated at the lowest recommended dose [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) , Drug Interactions (7.1) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . BPH — Tadalafil tablets are not recommended for use in combination with alpha-blockers for the treatment of BPH [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) , Drug Interactions (7.1) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . CYP3A4 Inhibitors Tadalafil Tablets for Use as Needed — For patients taking concomitant potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as ketoconazole or ritonavir, the maximum recommended dose of tadalafil tablets is 10 mg, not to exceed once every 72 hours [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) and Drug Interactions (7.2) ] . Tadalafil Tablets for Once Daily Use — For patients taking concomitant potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as ketoconazole or ritonavir, the maximum recommended dose is 2.5 mg [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) and Drug Interactions (7.2) ] . • Tadalafil tablets for use as needed: • ED: Starting dose: 10 mg as needed prior to sexual activity. • Tadalafil tablets for once daily use: • ED: 2.5 mg taken once daily, without regard to timing of sexual activity. • BPH: 5 mg, taken at approximately the same time every day ( 2.3 ) • ED and BPH: 5 mg, taken at approximately the same time every day ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) • Tadalafil tablets may be taken without regard to food ( 2.5 ). 2.1 Tadalafil Tablets for Use as Needed for Erectile Dysfunction • The recommended starting dose of tadalafil tablets for use as needed in most patients is 10 mg, taken prior to anticipated sexual activity. • The dose may be increased to 20 mg or decreased to 5 mg, based on individual efficacy and tolerability. • Tadalafil tablets for use as needed were shown to improve erectile function compared to placebo up to 36 hours following dosing. 2.2 Tadalafil Tablets for Once Daily Use for Erectile Dysfunction • The recommended starting dose of tadalafil tablets for once daily use is 2.5 mg, taken at approximately the same time every day, without regard to timing of sexual activity. • The tadalafil tablets dose for once daily use may be increased to 5 mg, based on individual efficacy and tolerability. 2.3 Tadalafil Tablets for Once Daily Use for Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia • The recommended dose of tadalafil tablets for once daily use is 5 mg, taken at approximately the same time every day. • When therapy for BPH is initiated with tadalafil tablets and finasteride, the recommended dose of tadalafil tablets for once daily use is 5 mg, taken at approximately the same time every day for up to 26 weeks. 2.6 Use in Specific Populations Renal Impairment Tadalafil Tablets for Use as Needed • Creatinine clearance 30 to 50 mL/min: A starting dose of 5 mg not more than once per day is recommended, and the maximum dose is 10 mg not more than once in every 48 hours. • Creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min or on hemodialysis: The maximum dose is 5 mg not more than once in every 72 hours [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )] . Tadalafil Tablets for Once Daily Use Erectile Dysfunction • Creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min or on hemodialysis: Tadalafil tablets for once daily use is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )] . Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia and Erectile Dysfunction/Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia • Creatinine clearance 30 to 50 mL/min: A starting dose of 2.5 mg is recommended. • Creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min or on hemodialysis: Tadalafil tablets for once daily use is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )] . Hepatic Impairment Tadalafil Tablets for Use as Needed • Mild or moderate (Child Pugh Class A or B): The dose should not exceed 10 mg once per day. • Severe (Child Pugh Class C): The use of tadalafil tablets is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . Tadalafil Tablets for Once Daily Use • Mild or moderate (Child Pugh Class A or B): Tadalafil tablets for once daily use has not been extensively evaluated in patients with hepatic impairment. Alpha-Blockers ED — When tadalafil tablets are coadministered with an alpha-blocker in patients being treated for ED, patients should be stable on alpha-blocker therapy prior to initiating treatment, and tadalafil tablets should be initiated at the lowest recommended dose [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . BPH: 5 mg, taken at approximately the same time every day ( 2.3 ). ED and BPH: 5 mg, taken at approximately the same time every day ( 2.3 , 2.4 ). Tadalafil tablets may be taken without regard to food ( 2.5 ). The tadalafil tablet dose for once daily use may be increased to 5 mg, based on individual efficacy and tolerability. Tadalafil Tablets for Once Daily Use Erectile Dysfunction Creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min or on hemodialysis: tadalafil tablets for once daily use are not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )] . Creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min or on hemodialysis: tadalafil tablets for once daily use are not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )] . Severe (Child Pugh Class C): The use of tadalafil tablets are not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . Therefore, caution is advised if tadalafil tablets for once daily use are prescribed to these patients. CYP3A4 Inhibitors Tadalafil Tablets for Use as Needed — For patients taking concomitant potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as ketoconazole or ritonavir, the maximum recommended dose of tadalafil tablet is 10 mg, not to exceed once every 72 hours [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )] . Tadalafil Tablets for Once Daily Use • Erectile Dysfunction • Creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min or on hemodialysis: Tadalafil tablets for once daily use is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )] . • Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia and Erectile Dysfunction/Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia • Creatinine clearance 30 to 50 mL/min: A starting dose of 2.5 mg is recommended. 2.6 Use in Specific Populations Renal Impairment Tadalafil tablets for Use as Needed Creatinine clearance 30 mL/min to 50 mL/min: A starting dose of 5 mg not more than once per day is recommended, and the maximum dose is 10 mg not more than once in every 48 hours. Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia and Erectile Dysfunction/Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia Creatinine clearance 30 mL/min to 50 mL/min: A starting dose of 2.5 mg is recommended. The use of tadalafil tablets once per day have not been extensively evaluated in patients with hepatic impairment and therefore, caution is advised. BPH — Tadalafil tablets are not recommended for use in combination with alpha-blockers for the treatment of BPH [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 40 mg once daily, with or without food. (2.1) Dividing the dose (40 mg) over the course of the day is not recommended. (2.1) Use with ritonavir requires dosage adjustments. (2.4) 2.1 Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension The recommended dose of tadalafil tablets is 40 mg (two 20 mg tablets) taken once daily with or without food. Dividing the dose (40 mg) over the course of the day is not recommended. 2.2 Dose Adjustment in Renal Impairment Mild (creatinine clearance 51 to 80 mL/min) or moderate (creatinine clearance 31 to 50 mL/min): Start dosing at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on individual tolerability. Severe (creatinine clearance <30 mL/min and on hemodialysis): Avoid use of tadalafil tablets because of increased tadalafil exposure (AUC), limited clinical experience, and the lack of ability to influence clearance by dialysis [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . 2.3 Dose Adjustment in Hepatic Impairment Mild or moderate (Child Pugh Class A or B): Because of limited clinical experience in patients with mild to moderate hepatic cirrhosis, consider a starting dose of 20 mg once per day. Severe (Child Pugh Class C): Patients with severe hepatic cirrhosis have not been studied. Avoid use of tadalafil tablets [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] . 2.4 Dose Adjustments for Use with Ritonavir Co-administration of Tadalafil Tablets in Patients on Ritonavir In patients receiving ritonavir for at least one week, start tadalafil tablets at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based upon individual tolerability [see Drug Interactions (7.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Co-administration of Ritonavir in Patients on Tadalafil Tablets Avoid use of tadalafil tablets during the initiation of ritonavir. Stop tadalafil tablets at least 24 hours prior to starting ritonavir. After at least one week following the initiation of ritonavir, resume tadalafil tablets at 20 mg once daily. Tadalafil tablets for use as needed was shown to improve erectile function compared to placebo up to 36 hours following dosing. Tadalafil Tablets for Once Daily Use Erectile Dysfunction Creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min or on hemodialysis: Tadalafil tablets for once daily use is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )]. Severe (Child Pugh Class C): The use of tadalafil tablets are not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. Alpha-Blockers ED — When tadalafil tablets are coadministered with an alpha-blocker in patients being treated for ED, patients should be stable on alpha-blocker therapy prior to initiating treatment, and tadalafil should be initiated at the lowest recommended dose [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . CYP3A4 Inhibitors Tadalafil Tablets for Use as Needed — For patients taking concomitant potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as ketoconazole or ritonavir, the maximum recommended dose of tadalafil tablets are 10 mg, not to exceed once every 72 hours [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )] .
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Administration of tadalafil tablets to patients using any form of organic nitrate is contraindicated. Tadalafil was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates ( 4.1 ). History of known serious hypersensitivity reaction to tadalafil or ADCIRCA ® ( 4.2 ). Administration with guanylate cyclase (GC) stimulators, such as riociguat ( 4.3 ). 4.1 Nitrates Administration of tadalafil tablets to patients who are using any form of organic nitrate, either regularly and/or intermittently, is contraindicated. In clinical pharmacology studies, tadalafil was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . 4.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Tadalafil tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known serious hypersensitivity to tadalafil (tadalafil tablets or ADCIRCA ® ). Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome and exfoliative dermatitis [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . 4.3 Concomitant Guanylate Cyclase (GC) Stimulators Do not use tadalafil tablets in patients who are using a GC stimulator, such as riociguat. PDE5 inhibitors, including tadalafil may potentiate the hypotensive effects of GC stimulators. Tadalafil tablets were shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates ( 4.1 ). History of known serious hypersensitivity reaction to tadalafil tablets or ADCIRCA ® ( 4.2 ). In clinical pharmacology studies, tadalafil tablets were shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . 4.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Tadalafil tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known serious hypersensitivity to tadalafil tablets or ADCIRCA ® . Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome and exfoliative dermatitis [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . PDE5 inhibitors, including tadalafil tablets, may potentiate the hypotensive effects of GC stimulators. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Administration of tadalafil tablets to patients using any form of organic nitrate is contraindicated. • History of known serious hypersensitivity reaction to tadalafil tablets or ADCIRCA ® ( 4.2 ). • Administration with guanylate cyclase (GC) stimulators, such as riociguat ( 4.3 ). In clinical pharmacology studies, tadalafil tablets were shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . PDE5 inhibitors, including tadalafil, may potentiate the hypotensive effects of GC stimulators. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Administration of tadalafil to patients using any form of organic nitrate is contraindicated. 4.1 Nitrates Administration of tadalafil to patients who are using any form of organic nitrate, either regularly and/or intermittently, is contraindicated. 4.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Tadalafil is contraindicated in patients with a known serious hypersensitivity to tadalafil (Tadalafil tablets or ADCIRCA ® ). 4.3 Concomitant Guanylate Cyclase (GC) Stimulators Do not use Tadalafil in patients who are using a GC stimulator, such as riociguat. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Concomitant organic nitrates (4.1) Concomitant Guanylate Cyclase (GC) Stimulators (4.2) History of known serious hypersensitivity reaction to tadalafil tablets or CIALIS (4.3) 4.1 Concomitant Organic Nitrates Tadalafil tablets are contraindicated in patients who are using any form of organic nitrate, either regularly or intermittently. Do not use nitrates within 48 hours of the last dose of tadalafil tablets. Tadalafil tablets potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates. This potentiation is thought to result from the combined effects of nitrates and tadalafil tablets on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . 4.2 Concomitant Guanylate Cyclase (GC) Stimulators Coadministration of GC stimulators such as riociguat with tadalafil tablets are contraindicated. Tadalafil tablets may potentiate the hypotensive effects of GC stimulators. 4.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions Tadalafil tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known serious hypersensitivity to tadalafil tablets or CIALIS. Tadalafil tablets was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates (4.1) . History of known serious hypersensitivity reaction to tadalafil tablets or ADCIRCA ® (4.2) . Administration with guanylate cyclase (GC) stimulators, such as riociguat (4.3) . In clinical pharmacology studies, tadalafil tablets was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . History of known serious hypersensitivity reaction to tadalafil or ADCIRCA ® . ( 4.2 ).
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Tadalafil tablets can potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, alpha-blockers, antihypertensives or alcohol ( 7.1 ). CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. ketoconazole, ritonavir) increase tadalafil exposure ( 2.7 , 5.10 , 7.2 ) requiring dose adjustment: Tadalafil tablets for use as needed: no more than 10 mg every 72 hours Tadalafil tablets for once daily use: dose not to exceed 2.5 mg CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. rifampin) decrease tadalafil exposure ( 7.2 ). 7.1 Potential for Pharmacodynamic Interactions with Tadalafil Tablets Nitrates — Administration of tadalafil tablets to patients who are using any form of organic nitrate, is contraindicated. In clinical pharmacology studies, tadalafil was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates. In a patient who has taken tadalafil tablets, where nitrate administration is deemed medically necessary in a life-threatening situation, at least 48 hours should elapse after the last dose of tadalafil tablets before nitrate administration is considered. In such circumstances, nitrates should still only be administered under close medical supervision with appropriate hemodynamic monitoring [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 ), Contraindications ( 4.1 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . Alpha-Blockers — Caution is advised when PDE5 inhibitors are coadministered with alpha-blockers. PDE5 inhibitors, including tadalafil, and alpha-adrenergic blocking agents are both vasodilators with blood-pressure-lowering effects. When vasodilators are used in combination, an additive effect on blood pressure may be anticipated. Clinical pharmacology studies have been conducted with coadministration of tadalafil with doxazosin, tamsulosin or alfuzosin. [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . Antihypertensives — PDE5 inhibitors, including tadalafil, are mild systemic vasodilators. Clinical pharmacology studies were conducted to assess the effect of tadalafil on the potentiation of the blood-pressure-lowering effects of selected antihypertensive medications (amlodipine, angiotensin II receptor blockers, bendrofluazide, enalapril, and metoprolol). Small reductions in blood pressure occurred following coadministration of tadalafil with these agents compared with placebo. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . Alcohol — Both alcohol and tadalafil, a PDE5 inhibitor, act as mild vasodilators. When mild vasodilators are taken in combination, blood-pressure-lowering effects of each individual compound may be increased. Substantial consumption of alcohol (e.g., 5 units or greater) in combination with tadalafil tablets can increase the potential for orthostatic signs and symptoms, including increase in heart rate, decrease in standing blood pressure, dizziness, and headache. Tadalafil did not affect alcohol plasma concentrations and alcohol did not affect tadalafil plasma concentrations. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Tadalafil Tablets [See Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . Antacids — Simultaneous administration of an antacid (magnesium hydroxide/aluminum hydroxide) and tadalafil reduced the apparent rate of absorption of tadalafil without altering exposure (AUC) to tadalafil. H 2 Antagonists (e.g. Nizatidine) — An increase in gastric pH resulting from administration of nizatidine had no significant effect on pharmacokinetics. Cytochrome P450 Inhibitors — Tadalafil is a substrate of and predominantly metabolized by CYP3A4. Studies have shown that drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 can increase tadalafil exposure. CYP3A4 (e.g., Ketoconazole) — Ketoconazole (400 mg daily), a selective and potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, increased tadalafil 20 mg single-dose exposure (AUC) by 312% and C max by 22%, relative to the values for tadalafil 20 mg alone. Ketoconazole (200 mg daily) increased tadalafil 10-mg single-dose exposure (AUC) by 107% and C max by 15%, relative to the values for tadalafil 10 mg alone [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 )] . Although specific interactions have not been studied, other CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as erythromycin, itraconazole, and grapefruit juice, would likely increase tadalafil exposure. HIV Protease inhibitor — Ritonavir (500 mg or 600 mg twice daily at steady state), an inhibitor of CYP3A4, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6, increased tadalafil 20-mg single-dose exposure (AUC) by 32% with a 30% reduction in C max , relative to the values for tadalafil 20 mg alone. Ritonavir (200 mg twice daily), increased tadalafil 20-mg single-dose exposure (AUC) by 124% with no change in C max , relative to the values for tadalafil 20 mg alone. Although specific interactions have not been studied, other HIV protease inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 )] . Cytochrome P450 Inducers — Studies have shown that drugs that induce CYP3A4 can decrease tadalafil exposure. CYP3A4 (e.g., Rifampin) — Rifampin (600 mg daily), a CYP3A4 inducer, reduced tadalafil 10-mg single-dose exposure (AUC) by 88% and C max by 46%, relative to the values for tadalafil 10 mg alone. Although specific interactions have not been studied, other CYP3A4 inducers, such as carbamazepine, phenytoin, and phenobarbital, would likely decrease tadalafil exposure. No dose adjustment is warranted. The reduced exposure of tadalafil with the coadministration of rifampin or other CYP3A4 inducers can be anticipated to decrease the efficacy of tadalafil tablets for once daily use; the magnitude of decreased efficacy is unknown. 7.3 Potential for Tadalafil Tablets to Affect Other Drugs Aspirin — Tadalafil did not potentiate the increase in bleeding time caused by aspirin. Cytochrome P450 Substrates — Tadalafil is not expected to cause clinically significant inhibition or induction of the clearance of drugs metabolized by cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms. Studies have shown that tadalafil does not inhibit or induce P450 isoforms CYP1A2, CYP3A4, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP2E1. CYP1A2 (e.g. Theophylline) — Tadalafil had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of theophylline. When tadalafil was administered to subjects taking theophylline, a small augmentation (3 beats per minute) of the increase in heart rate associated with theophylline was observed. CYP2C9 (e.g. Warfarin) — Tadalafil had no significant effect on exposure (AUC) to S-warfarin or R-warfarin, nor did tadalafil affect changes in prothrombin time induced by warfarin. CYP3A4 (e.g. Midazolam or Lovastatin) — Tadalafil had no significant effect on exposure (AUC) to midazolam or lovastatin. P-glycoprotein (e.g. Digoxin) — Coadministration of tadalafil (40 mg once per day) for 10 days did not have a significant effect on the steady-state pharmacokinetics of digoxin (0.25 mg/day) in healthy subjects. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Tadalafil can potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, alpha-blockers, antihypertensives or alcohol ( 7.1 ). CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, ritonavir) increase tadalafil exposure ( 2.7 , 5.10 , 7.2 ) requiring dose adjustment: Tadalafil for use as needed: no more than 10 mg every 72 hours Tadalafil for once daily use: dose not to exceed 2.5 mg CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., rifampin) decrease tadalafil exposure ( 7.2 ). 7.1 Potential for Pharmacodynamic Interactions with Tadalafil Nitrates — Administration of tadalafil to patients who are using any form of organic nitrate, is contraindicated. In a patient who has taken tadalafil, where nitrate administration is deemed medically necessary in a life-threatening situation, at least 48 hours should elapse after the last dose of tadalafil before nitrate administration is considered. In such circumstances, nitrates should still only be administered under close medical supervision with appropriate hemodynamic monitoring [see Dosage and Administration (2.7), Contraindications (4.1), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . [see Dosage and Administration (2.7), Warnings and Precautions (5.6), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Substantial consumption of alcohol (e.g., 5 units or greater) in combination with tadalafil can increase the potential for orthostatic signs and symptoms, including increase in heart rate, decrease in standing blood pressure, dizziness, and headache. [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Tadalafil [See Dosage and Administration (2.7) and Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] . H 2 Antagonists (e.g., Nizatidine) — An increase in gastric pH resulting from administration of nizatidine had no significant effect on pharmacokinetics. Ketoconazole (200 mg daily) increased tadalafil 10 mg single-dose exposure (AUC) by 107% and C max by 15%, relative to the values for tadalafil 10 mg alone [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) ] . HIV Protease inhibitor — Ritonavir (500 mg or 600 mg twice daily at steady state), an inhibitor of CYP3A4, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6, increased tadalafil 20 mg single-dose exposure (AUC) by 32% with a 30% reduction in C max , relative to the values for tadalafil 20 mg alone. Ritonavir (200 mg twice daily), increased tadalafil 20 mg single-dose exposure (AUC) by 124% with no change in C max , relative to the values for tadalafil 20 mg alone. Although specific interactions have not been studied, other HIV protease inhibitors would likely increase tadalafil exposure [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) ] . CYP3A4 (e.g., Rifampin) — Rifampin (600 mg daily), a CYP3A4 inducer, reduced tadalafil 10 mg single-dose exposure (AUC) by 88% and C max by 46%, relative to the values for tadalafil 10 mg alone. The reduced exposure of tadalafil with the coadministration of rifampin or other CYP3A4 inducers can be anticipated to decrease the efficacy of tadalafil for once daily use; the magnitude of decreased efficacy is unknown. 7.3 Potential for Tadalafil to Affect Other Drugs Aspirin — Tadalafil did not potentiate the increase in bleeding time caused by aspirin. CYP1A2 (e.g., Theophylline) — Tadalafil had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of theophylline. CYP2C9 (e.g., Warfarin) — Tadalafil had no significant effect on exposure (AUC) to S-warfarin or R-warfarin, nor did tadalafil affect changes in prothrombin time induced by warfarin. CYP3A4 (e.g., Midazolam or Lovastatin) — Tadalafil had no significant effect on exposure (AUC) to midazolam or lovastatin. P-glycoprotein (e.g., Digoxin) — Coadministration of tadalafil (40 mg once per day) for 10 days did not have a significant effect on the steady-state pharmacokinetics of digoxin (0.25 mg/day) in healthy subjects. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Tadalafil tablets can potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, alpha-blockers, antihypertensives or alcohol ( 7.1 ). • CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. ketoconazole, ritonavir) increase tadalafil tablets exposure ( 2.7 , 5.10 , 7.2 ) requiring dose adjustment: • Tadalafil tablets for use as needed: no more than 10 mg every 72 hours • Tadalafil tablets for once daily use: dose not to exceed 2.5 mg • CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. rifampin) decrease tadalafil tablets exposure ( 7.2 ). In clinical pharmacology studies, tadalafil tablets were shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates. PDE5 inhibitors, including tadalafil tablets, and alpha-adrenergic blocking agents are both vasodilators with blood-pressure-lowering effects. Cytochrome P450 Inhibitors — Tadalafil tablets are a substrate of and predominantly metabolized by CYP3A4. Cytochrome P450 Substrates — Tadalafil tablets are not expected to cause clinically significant inhibition or induction of the clearance of drugs metabolized by cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms. ketoconazole, ritonavir) increase tadalafil exposure ( 2.7 , 5.10 , 7.2 ) requiring dose adjustment: Tadalafil tablets for use as needed: no more than 10 mg every 72 hours. Tadalafil tablets for once daily use: dose not to exceed 2.5 mg. CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. Antihypertensives — PDE5 inhibitors, including tadalafil are mild systemic vasodilators. 7.3 Potential for Tadalafil Tablets to Affect Other Drugs Aspirin — tadalafil tablets did not potentiate the increase in bleeding time caused by aspirin. Theophylline) — tadalafil tablets had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of theophylline. Warfarin) — tadalafil tablets had no significant effect on exposure (AUC) to S-warfarin or R-warfarin, nor did tadalafil affect changes in prothrombin time induced by warfarin. ketoconazole, ritonavir) increase tadalafil exposure ( 2.7 , 5.10 , 7.2 ) requiring dose adjustment: Tadalafil for use as needed: no more than 10 mg every 72 hours Tadalafil for once daily use: dose not to exceed 2.5 mg CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. In clinical pharmacology studies tadalafil was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates. 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Tadalafil [See Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . H2 Antagonists (e.g. Nizatidine ) — An increase in gastric pH resulting from administration of nizatidine had no significant effect on pharmacokinetics. CYP3A4 (e.g., Ketoconazole) — Ketoconazole (400 mg daily), a selective and potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, increased tadalafil 20 mg single-dose exposure (AUC) by 312% and Cmax by 22%, relative to the values for tadalafil 20 mg alone. Ketoconazole (200 mg daily) increased tadalafil 10-mg single-dose exposure (AUC) by 107% and Cmax by 15%, relative to the values for tadalafil 10 mg alone [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 )] . Ritonavir (200 mg twice daily), increased tadalafil 20-mg single-dose exposure (AUC) by 124% with no change in Cmax , relative to the values for tadalafil 20 mg alone. CYP3A4 (e.g., Rifampin) — Rifampin (600 mg daily), a CYP3A4 inducer, reduced tadalafil 10-mg single-dose exposure (AUC) by 88% and Cmax by 46%, relative to the values for tadalafil 10 mg alone. Digoxin ) — Coadministration of tadalafil (40 mg once per day) for 10 days did not have a significant effect on the steady-state pharmacokinetics of digoxin (0.25 mg/day) in healthy subjects. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Nitrates Administration of nitrates within 48 hours after the last dose of tadalafil is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4.1) ] . 7.2 Alpha-Blockers PDE5 inhibitors, including tadalafil, and alpha–adrenergic blocking agents are both vasodilators with blood-pressure-lowering effects. Clinical pharmacology studies have been conducted with coadministration of tadalafil with doxazosin, alfuzosin or tamsulosin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . 7.3 Antihypertensives PDE5 inhibitors, including tadalafil, are mild systemic vasodilators. Clinical pharmacology studies were conducted to assess the effect of tadalafil on the potentiation of the blood–pressure–lowering effects of selected antihypertensive medications (amlodipine, angiotensin II receptor blockers, bendroflumethiazide, enalapril, and metoprolol). Small reductions in blood pressure occurred following coadministration of tadalafil with these agents compared with placebo [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . 7.4 Alcohol Both alcohol and tadalafil, a PDE5 inhibitor, act as mild vasodilators. When mild vasodilators are taken in combination, blood pressure–lowering effects of each individual compound may be increased. Tadalafil (10 mg or 20 mg) did not affect alcohol plasma concentrations and alcohol did not affect tadalafil plasma concentrations [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . 7.5 CYP3A Inhibitors/Inducers Ritonavir Ritonavir initially inhibits and later induces CYP3A, the enzyme involved in the metabolism of tadalafil. At steady state of ritonavir (about 1 week), the exposure to tadalafil is similar as in the absence of ritonavir [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Potent Inhibitors of CYP3A Tadalafil is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A in the liver. In patients taking potent inhibitors of CYP3A such as ketoconazole, and itraconazole, avoid use of tadalafil [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Potent Inducers of CYP3A For patients chronically taking potent inducers of CYP3A, such as rifampin, avoid use of tadalafil [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . ketoconazole, ritonavir) increase tadalafil tablets exposure ( 2.7 , 5.10 , 7.2 ) requiring dose adjustment: Tadalafil tablets for use as needed: no more than 10 mg every 72 hours Tadalafil tablets for once daily use: dose not to exceed 2.5 mg CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. In clinical pharmacology studies, tadalafil tablets was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates. Ketoconazole (200 mg daily) increased tadalafil 10-mg single-dose exposure (AUC) by 107% and C max by 15%, relative to the values for tadalafil 10 mg alone [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 )]. In a patient who has taken tadalafil, where nitrate administration is deemed medically necessary in a life-threatening situation, at least 48 hours should elapse after the last dose of tadalafil tablets before nitrate administration is considered.

=== CELECOXIB ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Celecoxib is indicated Celecoxib is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for: Osteoarthritis (OA) ( 1.1 ) Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) ( 1.2 ) Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) in patients 2 years and older ( 1.3 ) Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) ( 1.4 ) Acute Pain (AP) ( 1.5 ) Primary Dysmenorrhea (PD) ( 1.6 ) 1.1 Osteoarthritis For the management of the signs and symptoms of OA [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis For the management of the signs and symptoms of RA [ see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1.3 Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis For the management of the signs and symptoms of JRA in patients 2 years and older [ see Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. 1.4 Ankylosing Spondylitis For the management of the signs and symptoms of AS [ see Clinical Studies (14.4) ]. 1.5 Acute Pain For the management of acute pain in adults [ see Clinical Studies (14.5) ]. 1.6 Primary Dysmenorrhea For the management of primary dysmenorrhea [ see Clinical Studies (14.5) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Celecoxib capsules are indicated Celecoxib capsules are a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for: Osteoarthritis (OA) ( 1.1 ) Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) ( 1.2 ) Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) in patients 2 years and older ( 1.3 ) Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) ( 1.4 ) Acute Pain (AP) ( 1.5 ) Primary Dysmenorrhea (PD) ( 1.6 ) 1.1 Osteoarthritis (OA) For the management of the signs and symptoms of OA [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) For the management of the signs and symptoms of RA [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . 1.3 Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) For the management of the signs and symptoms of JRA in patients 2 years and older [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . 1.4 Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) For the management of the signs and symptoms of AS [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . 1.5 Acute Pain For the management of acute pain in adults [see Clinical Studies (14.5) ] . 1.6 Primary Dysmenorrhea For the management of primary dysmenorrhea [see Clinical Studies (14.5) ] . INDICATIONS AND USAGE Celecoxib is indicated Celecoxib is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for: Osteoarthritis (OA) ( 1.1 ) Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) ( 1.2 ) Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) in patients 2 years and older ( 1.3 ) Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) ( 1.4 ) Acute Pain (AP) ( 1.5 ) Primary Dysmenorrhea (PD) ( 1.6 ) 1.1 Osteoarthritis(OA) For the management of the signs and symptoms of OA [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) For the management of the signs and symptoms of RA [ see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] 1.3 Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) For the management of the signs and symptoms of JRA in patients 2 years and older [ see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] 1.4 Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) For the management of the signs and symptoms of AS [ see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] 1.5 Acute Pain For the management of acute pain in adults [ see Clinical Studies (14.5) ] 1.6 Primary Dysmenorrhea For the management of primary dysmenorrhea [ see Clinical Studies (14.5) ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Celecoxib capsules are indicated Celecoxib capsules are a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for: • Osteoarthritis (OA) ( 1.1 ) • Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) ( 1.2 ) • Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) in patients 2 years and older ( 1.3 ) • Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) ( 1.4 ) • Acute Pain (AP) ( 1.5 ) • Primary Dysmenorrhea (PD) ( 1.6 ) 1.1 Osteoarthritis(OA) For the management of the signs and symptoms of OA [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ] 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis(RA) For the management of the signs and symptoms of RA [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ] 1.3 Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis(JRA) For the management of the signs and symptoms of JRA in patients 2 years and older [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 ) ] 1.4 Ankylosing Spondylitis(AS) For the management of the signs and symptoms of AS [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 ) ] 1.5 Acute Pain For the management of acute pain in adults [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.5 ) ] 1.6 Primary Dysmenorrhea For the management of primary dysmenorrhea [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.5 ) ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Celecoxib capsules are indicated Celecoxib capsules are a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for: • Osteoarthritis (OA) ( 1.1 ) • Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) ( 1.2 ) • Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) in patients 2 years and older ( 1.3 ) • Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) ( 1.4 ) • Acute Pain (AP) ( 1.5 ) • Primary Dysmenorrhea (PD) ( 1.6 ) 1.1 Osteoarthritis For the management of the signs and symptoms of OA [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ] 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis For the management of the signs and symptoms of RA [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ] 1.3 Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis For the management of the signs and symptoms of JRA in patients 2 years and older [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 ) ] 1.4 Ankylosing Spondylitis For the management of the signs and symptoms of AS [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 ) ] 1.5 Acute Pain For the management of acute pain in adults [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.5 ) ] 1.6 Primary Dysmenorrhea For the management of primary dysmenorrhea [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.5 ) ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Celecoxib capsules are indicated Celecoxib capsules are a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for: • Osteoarthritis (OA) ( 1.1 ) • Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) ( 1.2 ) • Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) in patients 2 years and older ( 1.3 ) • Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) ( 1.4 ) • Acute Pain (AP) ( 1.5 ) • Primary Dysmenorrhea (PD) ( 1.6 ) 1.1 Osteoarthritis (OA) For the management of the signs and symptoms of OA [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ] 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) For the management of the signs and symptoms of RA [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ] 1.3 Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) For the management of the signs and symptoms of JRA in patients 2 years and older [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 ) ] 1.4 Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) For the management of the signs and symptoms of AS [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 ) ] 1.5 Acute Pain For the management of acute pain in adults [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.5 ) ] 1.6 Primary Dysmenorrhea For the management of primary dysmenorrhea [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.5 ) ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE Celecoxib is indicated Celecoxib is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for: Osteoarthritis (OA) ( 1.1 ) Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) ( 1.2 ) Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) in patients 2 years and older ( 1.3 ) Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) ( 1.4 ) Acute Pain (AP) ( 1.5 ) Primary Dysmenorrhea (PD) ( 1.6 ) 1.1 Osteoarthritis (OA) For the management of the signs and symptoms of OA [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) For the management of the signs and symptoms of RA [ see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1.3 Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) For the management of the signs and symptoms of JRA in patients 2 years and older [ see Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. 1.4 Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) For the management of the signs and symptoms of AS [ see Clinical Studies (14.4) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Celecoxib capsules are indicated Celecoxib capsules are nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for: Osteoarthritis (OA) ( 1.1 ) Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) ( 1.2 ) Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) in patients 2 years and older ( 1.3 ) Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) ( 1.4 ) Acute Pain (AP) ( 1.5 ) Primary Dysmenorrhea (PD) ( 1.6 ) 1.1 Osteoarthritis (OA) For the management of the signs and symptoms of OA [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) For the management of the signs and symptoms of RA [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. 1.3 Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) For the management of the signs and symptoms of JRA in patients 2 years and older [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 ) ]. 1.4 Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) For the management of the signs and symptoms of AS [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 ) ]. 1.5 Acute Pain For the management of acute pain in adults [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.5 ) ]. 1.6 Primary Dysmenorrhea For the management of primary dysmenorrhea [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.5 ) ].
Dosage: 2. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dosage for shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals. ( 2.1 ) OA: 200 mg once daily or 100 mg twice daily. ( 2.2 , 14.1 ) RA: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily. ( 2.3 , 14.2 ) JRA: 50 mg twice daily in patients 10 kg to 25 kg. 100 mg twice daily in patients more than 25 kg. ( 2.4 , 14.3 ) AS: 200 mg once daily single dose or 100 mg twice daily. If no effect is observed after 6 weeks, a trial of 400 mg (single or divided doses) may be of benefit. ( 2.5 , 14.4 ) AP and PD: 400 mg initially, followed by 200 mg dose if needed on first day. On subsequent days, 200 mg twice daily as needed. ( 2.6 , 14.5 ) Hepatic Impairment: Reduce daily dose by 50% in patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B). ( 2.7 , 8.6 , 12.3 ) Poor Metabolizers of CYP2C9 Substrates: Consider a dose reduction by 50% (or alternative management for JRA) in patients who are known or suspected to be CYP2C9 poor metabolizers. ( 2.7 , 8.8 , 12.3 ). 2.1 General Dosing Instructions Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of celecoxib and other treatment options before deciding to use celecoxib. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [ see Warnings and Precautions (5) ]. These doses can be given without regard to timing of meals. 2.2 Osteoarthritis For OA, the dosage is 200 mg per day administered as a single dose or as 100 mg twice daily. 2.3 Rheumatoid Arthritis For RA, the dosage is 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily. 2.4 Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis For JRA, the dosage for pediatric patients (age 2 years and older) is based on weight. For patients > 10 kg to < 25 kg the recommended dose is 50 mg twice daily. For patients >25 kg the recommended dose is 100 mg twice daily. For patients who have difficulty swallowing capsules, the contents of a celecoxib capsule can be added to applesauce. The entire capsule contents are carefully emptied onto a level teaspoon of cool or room temperature applesauce and ingested immediately with water. The sprinkled capsule contents on applesauce are stable for up to 6 hours under refrigerated conditions (2°C to 8°C/ 35°F to 45°F). 2.5 Ankylosing Spondylitis For AS, the dosage of celecoxib capsule is 200 mg daily in single (once per day) or divided (twice per day) doses. If no effect is observed after 6 weeks, a trial of 400 mg daily may be worthwhile. If no effect is observed after 6 weeks on 400 mg daily, a response is not likely and consideration should be given to alternate treatment options. 2.6 Management of Acute Pain and Treatment of Primary Dysmenorrhea For management of Acute Pain and Treatment of Primary Dysmenorrhea, the dosage is 400 mg initially, followed by an additional 200 mg dose if needed on the first day. On subsequent days, the recommended dose is 200 mg twice daily as needed. 2.7 Special Populations Hepatic Impairment In patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B), reduce the dose by 50%. The use of celecoxib in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Poor Metabolizers of CYP2C9 Substrates In adult patients who are known or suspected to be poor CYP2C9 metabolizers based on genotype or previous history/experience with other CYP2C9 substrates (such as warfarin, phenytoin), initiate treatment with half of the lowest recommended dose. In patients with JRA who are known or suspected to be poor CYP2C9 metabolizers, consider using alternative treatments [ see Use in Specific populations (8.8) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dosage for shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals. ( 2.7 , 8.8 , 12.3 ) 2.1 General Dosing Instructions Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of celecoxib capsules and other treatment options before deciding to use celecoxib capsules. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ] . For patients ≥10 kg to ≤25 kg the recommended dose is 50 mg twice daily. For patients ˃25 kg the recommended dose is 100 mg twice daily. The sprinkled capsule contents on applesauce are stable for up to 6 hours under refrigerated conditions (2°C to 8°C/35°F to 45°F). 2.5 Ankylosing Spondylitis For AS, the dosage of celecoxib capsules is 200 mg daily in single (once per day) or divided (twice per day) doses. The use of celecoxib in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . In patients with JRA who are known or suspected to be poor CYP2C9 metabolizers, consider using alternative treatments [see Use in Specific Populations (8.8) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dosage for shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals ( 2.1 ) OA: 200 mg once daily or 100 mg twice daily ( 2.2 , 14.1 ) RA: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily ( 2.3 , 14.2 ) JRA: 50 mg twice daily in patients 10 kg to 25 kg. 100 mg twice daily in patients more than 25 kg ( 2.4 , 14.3 ) AS: 200 mg once daily single dose or 100 mg twice daily. If no effect is observed after 6 weeks, a trial of 400 mg (single or divided doses) may be of benefit ( 2.5 , 14.4 ) AP and PD: 400 mg initially, followed by 200 mg dose if needed on first day. On subsequent days, 200 mg twice daily as needed ( 2.6 , 14.5 ) Hepatic Impairment: Reduce daily dose by 50% in patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B). ( 2.7, 8.6 , 12.3 ) Poor Metabolizers of CYP2C9 Substrates: Consider a dose reduction by 50% (or alternative management for JRA) in patients who are known or suspected to be CYP2C9 poor metabolizers. (2.7 , 8.8 , 12.3 ). The use of celecoxib in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. In patients with JRA who are known or suspected to be poor CYP2C9 metabolizers, consider using alternative treatments [ see Use in Specific populations (8.8), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Use the lowest effective dosage for shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals ( 2.1 ) • OA: 200 mg once daily or 100 mg twice daily ( 2.2 , 14.1 ) • RA: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily ( 2.3 , 14.2 ) • JRA: 50 mg twice daily in patients 10 kg to 25 kg. 100 mg twice daily in patients more than 25 kg ( 2.4 , 14.3 ) • AS: 200 mg once daily single dose or 100 mg twice daily. If no effect is observed after 6 weeks, a trial of 400 mg (single or divided doses) may be of benefit ( 2.5 , 14.4 ) • AP and PD: 400 mg initially, followed by 200 mg dose if needed on first day. ( 2.7 , 8.6 , 12.3 ) Poor Metabolizers of CYP2C9 Substrates: Consider a dose reduction by 50% (or alternative management for JRA) in patients who are known or suspected to be CYP2C9 poor metabolizers, ( 2.7, 8.8 , 12.3 ). 2.1 General Dosing Instructions Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of celecoxib capsules and other treatment options before deciding to use celecoxib capsules. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ]. For patients who have difficulty swallowing capsules, the contents of a celecoxib capsules can be added to applesauce. The sprinkled capsule contents on applesauce are stable for up to 6 hours under refrigerated conditions (2° C to 8° C/ 35° F to 45° F). 2.5 Ankylosing Spondylitis For AS, the dosage of celecoxib capsules are 200 mg daily in single (once per day) or divided (twice per day) doses. The use of celecoxib capsules in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. In patients with JRA who are known or suspected to be poor CYP2C9 metabolizers, consider using alternative treatments [ see Use in Specific populations ( 8.8 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 ) ]. The use of celecoxib capsules in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. In patients with JRA who are known or suspected to be poor CYP2C9 metabolizers, consider using alternative treatments. [ see Use in Specific populations ( 8.8 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 ) ]. ( 2.7 , 8.8 , 12.3 ) 2.1 General Dosing Instructions Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of celecoxib and other treatment options before deciding to use celecoxib. For patients ≥ 10 kg to ≤ 25 kg the recommended dose is 50 mg twice daily. For patients > 25 kg the recommended dose is 100 mg twice daily. 2.5 Ankylosing Spondylitis For AS, the dosage of celecoxib is 200 mg daily in single (once per day) or divided (twice per day) doses. In patients with JRA who are known or suspected to be poor CYP2C9 metabolizers, consider using alternative treatments [ see Use in Specific populations (8.8) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. For patients ≥10 kg to ≤ 25 kg the recommended dose is 50 mg twice daily. The sprinkled capsule contents on applesauce are stable for up to 6 hours under refrigerated conditions (2°C to 8°C/35°F -45°F). The use of celecoxib capsules in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ].
Contraindications: 4. CONTRAINDICATIONS Celecoxib is contraindicated in the following patients: Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to celecoxib, any components of the drug product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7, 5.9) ]. History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs, have been reported in such patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7 , 5.8) ]. In the setting of CABG surgery [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. In patients who have demonstrated allergic-type reactions to sulfonamides [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Known hypersensitivity to celecoxib, or any components of the drug product or sulphonamides. ( 4 ) History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. ( 4 ) In the setting of CABG surgery. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Celecoxib is contraindicated in the following patients: Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to celecoxib, any components of the drug product [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.9 )] . Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs, have been reported in such patients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.8 )] . In the setting of CABG surgery [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . In patients who have demonstrated allergic-type reactions to sulfonamides [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . Known hypersensitivity to celecoxib, or any components of the drug product or sulfonamides. CONTRAINDICATIONS Celecoxib capsules are contraindicated in the following patients: Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to celecoxib, any components of the drug product [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7, 5.9) ]. Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs, have been reported in such patients [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7 , 5.8 ) ]. In the setting of CABG surgery [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. In patients who have demonstrated allergic-type reactions to sulfonamides [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Known hypersensitivity to celecoxib, or any components of the drug product or sulfonamides ( 4 ) History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs ( 4 ) In the setting of CABG surgery ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Celecoxib capsules are contraindicated in the following patients: Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to celecoxib, any components of the drug product [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.9 ) ]. • History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs, have been reported in such patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.8 ) ]. • In the setting of CABG surgery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. • In patients who have demonstrated allergic-type reactions to sulfonamides [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) ]. • In patients who have demonstrated allergic-type reactions to sulfonamides. • Known hypersensitivity to celecoxib, or any components of the drug product or sulfonamides ( 4 ) • History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs ( 4 ) • In the setting of CABG surgery ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Celecoxib is contraindicated in the following patients: Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to celecoxib, any components of the drug product [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7 , 5.9) ]. Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs, have been reported in such patients [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7 , 5.8) ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Celecoxib is contraindicated in the following patients: Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to celecoxib, any components of the drug product [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.9 ) ]. In the setting of CABG surgery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. In patients who have demonstrated allergic-type reactions to sulfonamides [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) ].
Interactions (label): 7. DRUG INTERACTIONS See Table 3 for clinically significant drug interactions with celecoxib. Table 3: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Celecoxib Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: Celecoxib and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. The concomitant use of celecoxib and anticoagulants have an increased risk of serious bleeding compared to the use of either drug alone. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Case-control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of celecoxib with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet drugs (e.g., aspirin), SSRIs, and SNRIs for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. Aspirin Clinical Impact: Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. In two studies in healthy volunteers, and in patients with osteoarthritis and established heart disease respectively, celecoxib (200 mg to 400 mg daily) has demonstrated a lack of interference with the cardioprotective antiplatelet effect of aspirin (100 mg to 325 mg). Intervention: Concomitant use of celecoxib and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. Celecoxib is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact: NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers (including propranolol). In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Intervention: During concomitant use of celecoxib and ACE inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. During concomitant use of celecoxib and ACE inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. When these drugs are administered concomitantly, patients should be adequately hydrated. Assess renal function at the beginning of the concomitant treatment and periodically thereafter. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. This effect has been attributed to the NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of celecoxib with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Digoxin Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of Celecoxib with digoxin has been reported to increase the serum concentration and prolong the half-life of digoxin. Intervention: During concomitant use of celecoxib and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Lithium Clinical Impact: NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance . The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%, and the renal clearance decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of celecoxib and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction). Celecoxib has no effect on methotrexate pharmacokinetics. Intervention: During concomitant use of celecoxib and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of celecoxib and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine’s nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of celecoxib and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of Celecoxib with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Intervention: The concomitant use of Celecoxib with other NSAIDs or salicylates is not recommended. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of celecoxib and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention: During concomitant use of celecoxib and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. NSAIDs with short elimination half-lives (e.g., diclofenac, indomethacin) should be avoided for a period of two days before, the day of, and two days following administration of pemetrexed. In the absence of data regarding potential interaction between pemetrexed and NSAIDs with longer half-lives (e.g., meloxicam, nabumetone), patients taking these NSAIDs should interrupt dosing for at least five days before, the day of, and two days following pemetrexed administration. CYP2C9 Inhibitors or inducers Clinical Impact: Celecoxib metabolism is predominantly mediated via cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2C9 in the liver. Co­administration of celecoxib with drugs that are known to inhibit CYP2C9 (e.g., fluconazole) may enhance the exposure and toxicity of celecoxib whereas co-administration with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g., rifampin) may lead to compromised efficacy of celecoxib. Intervention Evaluate each patient's medical history when consideration is given to prescribing celecoxib. A dosage adjustment may be warranted when celecoxib is administered with CYP2C9 inhibitors or inducers [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. CYP2D6 substrates Clinical Impact: In vitro studies indicate that celecoxib, although not a substrate, is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Therefore, there is a potential for an in vivo drug interaction with drugs that are metabolized by CYP2D6 (e.g., atomoxetine), and celecoxib may enhance the exposure and toxicity of these drugs. A dosage adjustment may be warranted when celecoxib is administered with CYP2D6 substrates [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Corticosteroids Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of corticosteroids with celecoxib may increase the risk of GI ulceration or bleeding. Intervention Monitor patients with concomitant use of celecoxib with corticosteroids for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g. warfarin, aspirin, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors [SSRIs]/serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors [SNRIs]): Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly taking celecoxib with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. Concomitant use of celecoxib and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended. ( 7 ) Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE) Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARB), or Beta- Blockers : Concomitant use with celecoxib may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Monitor blood pressure. ( 7 ) ACE Inhibitors and ARBs : Concomitant use with celecoxib in elderly, volume depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function. ( 7 ) Diuretics : NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. Monitor patients to assure diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects. ( 7 ) Digoxin : Concomitant use with celecoxib can increase serum concentration and prolong half-life of digoxin. Monitor serum digoxin levels. ( 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See Table 3 for clinically significant drug interactions with celecoxib. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of celecoxib with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet drugs (e.g., aspirin), SSRIs, and SNRIs for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 ) ] . Intervention: Concomitant use of celecoxib and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . During concomitant use of celecoxib and ACE inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . Intervention: During concomitant use of celecoxib with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . Lithium Clinical Impact: NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of celecoxib with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Co-administration of celecoxib with drugs that are known to inhibit CYP2C9 (e.g., fluconazole) may enhance the exposure and toxicity of celecoxib whereas co-administration with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g., rifampin) may lead to compromised efficacy of celecoxib. Intervention: Evaluate each patient's medical history when consideration is given to prescribing celecoxib. A dosage adjustment may be warranted when celecoxib is administered with CYP2C9 inhibitors or inducers [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . A dosage adjustment may be warranted when celecoxib is administered with CYP2D6 substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of celecoxib with corticosteroids for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., warfarin, aspirin, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors [SSRIs]/serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors [SNRIs]) : Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly taking celecoxib with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. ( 7 ) Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE) Inhibitors , Angiotensin Re ceptor Blockers (ARB), or Beta- Blockers : Concomitant use with celecoxib may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of celecoxib with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet drugs (e.g., aspirin), SSRIs, and SNRIs for signs of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. Intervention: Concomitant use of celecoxib and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. During concomitant use of celecoxib and ACE inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of Celecoxib with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Intervention: During concomitant use of celecoxib and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 mL/min to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. Coadministration of celecoxib with drugs that are known to inhibit CYP2C9 (e.g., fluconazole) may enhance the exposure and toxicity of celecoxib whereas co-administration with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g., rifampin) may lead to compromised efficacy of celecoxib. A dosage adjustment may be warranted when celecoxib is administered with CYP2C9 inhibitors or inducers. [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. A dosage adjustment may be warranted when celecoxib is administered with CYP2D6 substrates. [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3 ) ]. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of celecoxib with corticosteroids for signs of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Concomitant use of celecoxib and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended ( 7 ) Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE) Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARB), or Beta-Blockers : Concomitant use with celecoxib may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Monitor blood pressure ( 7 ) ACE Inhibitors and ARBs : Concomitant use with celecoxib in elderly, volume depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function ( 7 ) Diuretics : NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. Monitor patients to assure diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects ( 7 ) Digoxin : Concomitant use with celecoxib can increase serum concentration and prolong half-life of digoxin. Monitor serum digoxin levels ( 7 ) Table 3: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Celecoxib Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: · Celecoxib and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. · Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of celecoxib capsules with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet drugs (e.g., aspirin), SSRIs, and SNRIs for signs of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ) ]. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. Intervention: Concomitant use of celecoxib capsules and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ) ]. Celecoxib capsules are not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact: · NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers (including propranolol). · In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Intervention: · During concomitant use of celecoxib capsules and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. · During concomitant use of celecoxib capsules and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ] . · When these drugs are administered concomitantly, patients should be adequately hydrated. Intervention: During concomitant use of celecoxib capsules with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ]. Intervention: During concomitant use of celecoxib capsules and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Intervention: During concomitant use of celecoxib capsules and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Celecoxib capsules has no effect on methotrexate pharmacokinetics. Intervention: During concomitant use of celecoxib capsules and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of celecoxib capsules and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine’s nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of celecoxib capsules and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of Celecoxib with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ] . Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of celecoxib capsules and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention: During concomitant use of celecoxib capsules and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Corticosteroids Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of corticosteroids with celecoxib capsules may increase the risk of GI ulceration or bleeding. Intervention Monitor patients with concomitant use of celecoxib capsules with corticosteroids for signs of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. • Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., warfarin, aspirin, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors [SSRIs]/serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors [SNRIs]): Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly taking celecoxib capsules with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. Concomitant use of celecoxib capsules and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended ( 7 ) • Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE) Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARB), or Beta-Blockers: Concomitant use with celecoxib capsules may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Monitor blood pressure ( 7 ) • ACE Inhibitors and ARBs : Concomitant use with celecoxib capsules in elderly, volume depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function ( 7 ) • Diuretics : NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. Monitor patients to assure diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects ( 7 ) • Digoxin : Concomitant use with celecoxib capsules can increase serum concentration and prolong half-life of digoxin. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of celecoxib capsules with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet drugs (e.g., aspirin), SSRIs, and SNRIs for signs of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ) ]. Intervention: Concomitant use of celecoxib capsules and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ) ]. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of celecoxib and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of celecoxib with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e. g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Co-administration of celecoxib with drugs that are known to inhibit CYP2C9 (e. g., fluconazole) may enhance the exposure and toxicity of celecoxib whereas co-administration with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g., rifampin) may lead to compromised efficacy of celecoxib. Intervention Monitor patients with concomitant use of celecoxib with corticosteroids for signs of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. ( 7 ) Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE) Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARB), or Beta-Blockers: Concomitant use with celecoxib may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. ( 7 ) ACE Inhibitors and ARBs: Concomitant use with celecoxib in elderly, volume depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. ( 7 ) Diuretics: NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. ( 7 ) Digoxin: Concomitant use with celecoxib can increase serum concentration and prolong half-life of digoxin. Table 3: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Celecoxib Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: • Celecoxib and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. • Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of celecoxib with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet drugs (e.g., aspirin), SSRIs, and SNRIs for signs of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ) ]. Intervention: Concomitant use of celecoxib and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ) ]. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact: • NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers (including propranolol). • In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Intervention: • During concomitant use of celecoxib and ACE inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. • During concomitant use of celecoxib and ACE inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ]. • When these drugs are administered concomitantly, patients should be adequately hydrated. Intervention: During concomitant use of celecoxib with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ]. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of celecoxib with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of celecoxib with corticosteroids for signs of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., warfarin, aspirin, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors [SSRIs]/serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors [SNRIs]): Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly taking celecoxib with drugs that interfere with hemostasis.

=== HYDROXYZINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE For symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested. Useful in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses and in histamine-mediated pruritus. As a sedative when used as a premedication and following general anesthesia, hydroxyzine may potentiate meperidine and barbiturates, so their use in pre-anesthetic adjunctive therapy should be modified on an individual basis. Atropine and other belladonna alkaloids are not affected by the drug. Hydroxyzine is not known to interfere with the action of digitalis in any way and it may be used concurrently with this agent. The effectiveness of hydroxyzine as an antianxiety agent for long term use, that is more than 4 months, has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies. The physician should reassess periodically the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. Useful in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses, and in histamine-mediated pruritus. As a sedative when used as premedication and following general anesthesia, hydroxyzine may potentiate meperidine and barbiturates , so their use in pre-anesthetic adjunctive therapy should be modified on an individual basis. The physician should reassess periodically the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient As a sedative when used as a premedication and following general anesthesia, hydroxyzine may potentiate meperidine and barbiturates , so their use in pre-anesthetic adjunctive therapy should be modified on an individual basis. The total management of anxiety, tension, and psychomotor agitation in conditions of emotional stress requires in most instances a combined approach of psychotherapy and chemotherapy. Hydroxyzine has been found to be particularly useful for this latter phase of therapy in its ability to render the disturbed patient more amenable to psychotherapy in long term treatment of the psychoneurotic and psychotic, although it should not be used as the sole treatment of psychosis or of clearly demonstrated cases of depression. Hydroxyzine is also useful in alleviating the manifestations of anxiety and tension as in the preparation for dental procedures and in acute emotional problems. It has also been recommended for the management of anxiety associated with organic disturbances and as adjunctive therapy in alcoholism and allergic conditions with strong emotional overlay, such as in asthma, chronic urticaria, and pruritus. Hydroxyzine hydrochloride intramuscular solution is useful in treating the following types of patients when intramuscular administration is indicated: 1. The acutely disturbed or hysterical patient. 2. The acute or chronic alcoholic with anxiety withdrawal symptoms or delirium tremens. 3. As pre-and postoperative and pre- and postpartum adjunctive medication to permit reduction in narcotic dosage, allay anxiety and control emesis. Hydroxyzine hydrochloride has also demonstrated effectiveness in controlling nausea and vomiting, excluding nausea and vomiting of pregnancy. (See CONTRAINDICATIONS). In prepartum states, the reduction in narcotic requirement effected by hydroxyzine is of particular benefit to both mother and neonate. Hydroxyzine benefits the cardiac patient by its ability to allay the associated anxiety and apprehension attendant to certain types of heart disease. Hydroxyzine is not known to interfere with the action of digitalis in any way and may be used concurrently with this agent. The effectiveness of hydroxyzine in long term use, that is, more than 4 months, has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested: adults, 50 to 100 mg q.i.d.; children under 6 years, 50 mg daily in divided doses; children over 6 years, 50 to 100 mg daily in divided doses. For use in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses and in histamine-mediated pruritus: adults, 25 mg t.i.d. or q.i.d.; children under 6 years, 50 mg daily in divided doses; children over 6 years, 50 to 100 mg daily in divided doses. As a sedative when used as a premedication and following general anesthesia: 50 to 100 mg for adults and 0.6 mg/kg of body weight in children. When treatment is initiated by the intramuscular route of administration, subsequent doses may be administered orally. As with all potent medication, the dosage should be adjusted according to the patient's response to therapy. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested: in adults, 50 to 100 mg q.i.d.; children under 6 years, 50 mg daily in divided doses and over 6 years, 50 to 100 mg daily in divided doses. For use in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses, and in histamine-mediated pruritus: in adults, 25 mg t.i.d. or q.i.d.; children under 6 years, 50 mg daily in divided doses and over 6 years, 50 to 100 mg daily in divided doses. As a sedative when used as a premedication and following general anesthesia: 50 to 100 mg in adults, and 0.6 mg/kg in children. As with all medications, the dosage should be adjusted according to the patient's response to therapy. The recommended dosages for hydroxyzine hydrochloride intramuscular solution are: As with all potent medications, the dosage should be adjusted according to the patient's response to therapy. FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON THE ADMINISTRATION AND SITE OF SELECTION SEE PRECAUTIONS SECTION. NOTE: Hydroxyzine hydrochloride intramuscular solution may be administered without further dilution. Patients may be started on intramuscular therapy when indicated. They should be maintained on oral therapy whenever this route is practicable. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Table 1 As with all potent medication, the dosage should be adjusted according to the patient’s response to therapy.
Warnings: WARNINGS Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk. Since many drugs are so excreted, hydroxyzine should not be given to nursing mothers. WARNINGS Keep out of the reach of children. Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk. Tissue damage: Intramuscular hydroxyzine hydrochloride may result in severe injection site reactions (including extensive tissue damage, necrosis and gangrene) requiring surgical intervention (including debridement, skin grafting and amputation).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Oral hydroxyzine hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to hydroxyzine hydrochloride products, and in patients with known hypersensitivity to cetirizine hydrochloride or levocetirizine hydrochloride. Hydroxyzine is contraindicated in patients with a prolonged QT interval. Hydroxyzine, when administered to the pregnant mouse, rat, and rabbit induced fetal abnormalities in the rat and mouse at doses substantially above the human therapeutic range. Clinical data in human beings are inadequate to establish safety in early pregnancy. Until such data are available, hydroxyzine is contraindicated in early pregnancy. Hydroxyzine is contraindicated for patients who have shown a previous hypersensitivity to any component of this medication. Hydroxyzine, when administered to the pregnant mouse, rat, and rabbit, induced fetal abnormalities in the rat and mouse at doses substantially above the human therapeutic range. Hydroxyzine is contraindicated for patients who have shown a previous hypersensitivity to it. Hydroxyzine hydrochloride intramuscular solution is intended only for intramuscular administration and should not, under any circumstances, be injected subcutaneously, intra-arterially or intravenously. This drug is contraindicated for patients who have shown a previous hypersensitivity to it. Hydroxyzine, when administered to the pregnant mouse, rat, and rabbit, induced fetal abnormalities in the rat at doses substantially above the human therapeutic range.

=== ONDANSETRON ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ondansetron tablets are indicated for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with: highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 . initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy. radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation, single high-dose fraction to the abdomen, or daily fractions to the abdomen Ondansetron tablets are also indicated for the prevention of postoperative nausea and/or vomiting. Ondansetron tablets are 5-HT 3 receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of: nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 (1) nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy (1) nausea and vomiting associated with radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation, single high-dose fraction to the abdomen, or daily fractions to the abdomen (1) postoperative nausea and/or vomiting (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ondansetron tablets are indicated for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with: highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation, single high-dose fraction to the abdomen, or daily fractions to the abdomen Ondansetron tablets are also indicated for the prevention of postoperative nausea and/or vomiting. Ondansetron tablets are a 5-HT 3 receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of: nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 . (1) nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy. (1) nausea and vomiting associated with radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation, single high-dose fraction to the abdomen, or daily fractions to the abdomen. (1) postoperative nausea and/or vomiting. (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ondansetron is indicated for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with: • highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 • initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy • radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation, single high-dose fraction to the abdomen, or daily fractions to the abdomen Ondansetron is also indicated for the prevention of postoperative nausea and/or vomiting. Ondansetron is a 5-HT 3 receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of: • nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 . ( 1 ) • nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy. ( 1 ) • nausea and vomiting associated with radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation, single high-dose fraction to the abdomen, or daily fractions to the abdomen. ( 1 ) • postoperative nausea and/or vomiting. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ondansetron is indicated for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with: highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 . radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation, single high-dose fraction to the abdomen, or daily fractions to the abdomen. Ondansetron is also indicated for the prevention of postoperative nausea and/or vomiting. Ondansetron is a 5-HT 3 receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of: nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 . ( 1 ) nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy. ( 1 ) nausea and vomiting associated with radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation, single high-dose fraction to the abdomen, or daily fractions to the abdomen. ( 1 ) postoperative nausea and/or vomiting. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ondansetron oral solution is indicated for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with: highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation, single high-dose fraction to the abdomen, or daily fractions to the abdomen Ondansetron oral solution is also indicated for the prevention of postoperative nausea and/or vomiting. Ondansetron oral solution is a 5-HT 3 receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of: nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 . Ondansetron tablets are a 5-HT 3 receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of: nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 (1) nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy (1) nausea and vomiting associated with radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation, single high-dose fraction to the abdomen, or daily fractions to the abdomen (1) postoperative nausea and/or vomiting (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets are indicated for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with: highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation, single high-dose fraction to the abdomen, or daily fractions to the abdomen Ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets also indicated for the prevention of postoperative nausea and/or vomiting. Ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets are a 5-HT 3 receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of: nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ondansetron tablets are indicated for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with: • highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 • initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy • radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation, single high-dose fraction to the abdomen, or daily fractions to the abdomen Ondansetron tablets are also indicated for the prevention of postoperative nausea and/or vomiting. Ondansetron tablets are a 5-HT 3 receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of: • nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 . (1) • nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy. (1) • nausea and vomiting associated with radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation, single high-dose fraction to the abdomen, or daily fractions to the abdomen. (1) • postoperative nausea and/or vomiting.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION See full prescribing information for the recommended dosage in adults and pediatrics (2) Patients with severe hepatic impairment: do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg ( 2.2 , 8.6 ) 2.1 Dosage The recommended dosage regimens for adult and pediatric patients are described in Table 1 and Table 2, respectively. Corresponding doses of ondansetron tablets may be used interchangeably. Table 1: Adult Recommended Dosage Regimen for Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Indication Dosage Regimen Highly Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy A single 24 mg dose administered 30 minutes before the start of single-day highly emetogenic chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 Moderately Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy 8 mg administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy, with a subsequent 8 mg dose 8 hours after the first dose. Then administer 8 mg twice a day (every 12 hours) for 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy. Radiotherapy For total body irradiation : 8 mg administered 1 to 2 hours before each fraction of radiotherapy each day. For single high-dose fraction radiotherapy to the abdomen : 8 mg administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy, with subsequent 8 mg doses every 8 hours after the first dose for 1 to 2 days after completion of radiotherapy. For daily fractionated radiotherapy to the abdomen : 8 mg administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy, with subsequent 8 mg doses every 8 hours after the first dose for each day radiotherapy is given. Postoperative 16 mg administered 1 hour before induction of anesthesia. Table 2: Pediatric Recommended Dosage Regimen for Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Indication Dosage Regimen Moderately Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy 12 to 17 years of age : 8 mg administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy, with a subsequent 8 mg dose 8 hours after the first dose. 4 to 11 years of age : 4 mg administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy, with a subsequent 4 mg dose 4 and 8 hours after the first dose. Then administer 4 mg three times a day for 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy. 2.2 Dosage in Hepatic Impairment In patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score of 10 or greater), do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION See full prescribing information for the recommended dosage in adults and pediatrics. (2) Patients with severe hepatic impairment: do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg. (2.2 , 8.6 ) 2.1 Dosage The recommended dosage regimens for adult and pediatric patients are described in Table 1 and Table 2, respectively. Corresponding doses of ondansetron tablets, ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets and ondansetron oral solution may be used interchangeably. Table 1: Adult Recommended Dosage Regimen for Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Indication Dosage Regimen Highly Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy A single 24 mg dose administered 30 minutes before the start of single-day highly emetogenic chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 . Moderately Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy 8 mg administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy, with a subsequent 8 mg dose 8 hours after the first dose. Table 2: Pediatric Recommended Dosage Regimen for Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Indication Dosage Regimen Moderately Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy 12 to 17 years of age: 8 mg administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy, with a subsequent 8 mg dose 8 hours after the first dose. 4 to 11 years of age: 4 mg administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy, with a subsequent 4 mg dose 4 and 8 hours after the first dose. 2.2 Dosage in Hepatic Impairment In patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score of 10 or greater), do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • See full prescribing information for the recommended dosage in adults and pediatrics. ( 2 ) • Patients with severe hepatic impairment: do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg. ( 2.2 , 8.6 ) 2.1 Dosage The recommended dosage regimens for adult and pediatric patients are described in Table 1 and Table 2, respectively. Corresponding doses of ondansetron tablets, and ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets may be used interchangeably. Table 1: Adult Recommended Dosage Regimen for Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Indication Dosage Regimen Highly Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy A single 24-mg dose administered 30 minutes before the start of single-day highly emetogenic chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 . Moderately Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy 8 mg administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy, with a subsequent 8-mg dose 8 hours after the first dose. Radiotherapy For total body irradiation: 8 mg administered 1 to 2 hours before each fraction of radiotherapy each day. For single high-dose fraction radiotherapy to the abdomen: 8 mg administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy, with subsequent 8-mg doses every 8 hours after the first dose for 1 to 2 days after completion of radiotherapy. For daily fractionated radiotherapy to the abdomen: 8 mg administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy, with subsequent 8-mg doses every 8 hours after the first dose for each day radiotherapy is given. Table 2: Pediatric Recommended Dosage Regimen for Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Indication Dosage Regimen Moderately Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy 12 to 17 years of age: 8 mg administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy, with a subsequent 8-mg dose 8 hours after the first dose. 4 to 11 years of age: 4 mg administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy, with a subsequent 4-mg dose 4 and 8 hours after the first dose. 2.2 Dosage in Hepatic Impairment In patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score of 10 or greater), do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.3 Administration Instructions for Ondansetron Orally Disintegrating Tablets Do not attempt to push ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets through the foil backing. With dry hands, PEEL BACK the foil backing of 1 blister and GENTLY remove the tablet. IMMEDIATELY place the ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet on top of the tongue where it will dissolve in seconds, then swallow with saliva. Administration with liquid is not necessary. ( 2 ) Patients with severe hepatic impairment: do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg. Corresponding doses of ondansetron tablets, orally disintegrating tablets and oral solution may be used interchangeably. 2.2 Dosage in Hepatic Impairment In patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score of 10 or greater), do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. (2.2, 8.6) 2.1 Dosage The recommended dosage regimens for adult and pediatric patients are described in Table 1 and Table 2, respectively. (2.2 , 8.6 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage regimens for adult and pediatric patients are described in Table 1 and Table 2, respectively. For single high-dose fraction radiotherapy to the abdomen: 8 mg administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy, with subsequent 8 mg doses every 8 hours after the first dose for 1 to 2 days after completion of radiotherapy. For daily fractionated radiotherapy to the abdomen: 8 mg administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy, with subsequent 8 mg doses every 8 hours after the first dose for each day radiotherapy is given. ( 2.2 , 8.6 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage regimens for adult and pediatric patients are described in Table 1 and Table 2, respectively. With dry hands, remove the tablet from the bottle or PEEL BACK the foil backing of 1 blister and GENTLY remove the tablet. (2) • Patients with severe hepatic impairment: do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ondansetron is contraindicated in patients: known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to ondansetron or any of the components of the formulation [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] receiving concomitant apomorphine due to the risk of profound hypotension and loss of consciousness Patients known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to ondansetron or any components of the formulation. (4) Concomitant use of apomorphine (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ondansetron tablets are contraindicated in patients: known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to ondansetron or any of the components of the formulation [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] receiving concomitant apomorphine due to the risk of profound hypotension and loss of consciousness Patients known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to ondansetron or any components of the formulation. (4) Concomitant use of apomorphine. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ondansetron is contraindicated in patients: • known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to ondansetron or any of the components of the formulation [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] • receiving concomitant apomorphine due to the risk of profound hypotension and loss of consciousness Patients known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to ondansetron or any components of the formulation. ( 4 ) • Concomitant use of apomorphine ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ondansetron is contraindicated in patients: known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to ondansetron or any of the components of the formulation [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. receiving concomitant apomorphine due to the risk of profound hypotension and loss of consciousness. Patients known to have hypersensitivity (e.g. anaphylaxis) to ondansetron or any components of the formulation. ( 4 ) Concomitant use of apomorphine. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets are contraindicated in patients: known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to ondansetron or any of the components of the formulation [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] receiving concomitant apomorphine due to the risk of profound hypotension and loss of consciousness Patients known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to ondansetron or any components of the formulation. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ondansetron tablets are contraindicated in patients: • known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to ondansetron or any of the components of the formulation [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] • receiving concomitant apomorphine due to the risk of profound hypotension and loss of consciousness Patients known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to ondansetron or any components of the formulation. (4) • Concomitant use of apomorphine.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Serotonergic Drugs Serotonin syndrome (including altered mental status, autonomic instability, and neuromuscular symptoms) has been described following the concomitant use of 5-HT 3 receptor antagonists and other serotonergic drugs, including SSRIs and SNRIs. Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If symptoms occur, discontinue ondansetron and initiate supportive treatment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3) ]. 7.2 Drugs Affecting Cytochrome P-450 Enzymes Ondansetron does not itself appear to induce or inhibit the cytochrome P-450 drug-metabolizing enzyme system of the liver [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Because ondansetron is metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P-450 drug-metabolizing enzymes (CYP3A4, CYP2D6, CYP1A2), inducers or inhibitors of these enzymes may change the clearance and, hence, the half-life of ondansetron. In patients treated with potent inducers of CYP3A4 (i.e., phenytoin, carbamazepine, and rifampin), the clearance of ondansetron was significantly increased and ondansetron blood concentrations were decreased. However, on the basis of available data, no dosage adjustment for ondansetron is recommended for patients on these drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.3 Tramadol Although no pharmacokinetic drug interaction between ondansetron and tramadol has been observed, data from 2 small trials indicate that when used together, ondansetron may increase patient-controlled administration of tramadol. Monitor patients to ensure adequate pain control when ondansetron is administered with tramadol. 7.4 Chemotherapy Carmustine, etoposide, and cisplatin do not affect the pharmacokinetics of ondansetron. In a crossover trial in 76 pediatric patients, intravenous ondansetron did not increase systemic concentrations of high-dose methotrexate. 7.5 Alfentanil and Atracurium Ondansetron does not alter the respiratory depressant effects produced by alfentanil or the degree of neuromuscular blockade produced by atracurium. Interactions with general or local anesthetics have not been studied. If symptoms occur, discontinue ondansetron and initiate supportive treatment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . 7.2 Drugs Affecting Cytochrome P-450 Enzymes Ondansetron does not itself appear to induce or inhibit the cytochrome P-450 drug-metabolizing enzyme system of the liver [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . However, on the basis of available data, no dosage adjustment for ondansetron is recommended for patients on these drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . If symptoms occur, discontinue ondansetron and initiate supportive treatment [see Warnings and Precautions ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. )] . 7.2 Drugs Affecting Cytochrome P-450 Enzymes Ondansetron does not itself appear to induce or inhibit the cytochrome P‑450 drug‑metabolizing enzyme system of the liver [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Because ondansetron is metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P‑450 drug‑metabolizing enzymes (CYP3A4, CYP2D6, CYP1A2), inducers or inhibitors of these enzymes may change the clearance and, hence, the half‑life of ondansetron. However, on the basis of available data, no dosage adjustment for ondansetron is recommended for patients on these drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . If symptoms occur, discontinue ondansetron and initiate supportive treatment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. However, on the basis of available data, no dosage adjustment for ondansetron is recommended for patients on these drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Serotonergic Drugs Serotonin syndrome (including altered mental status, autonomic instability, and neuromuscular symptoms) has been described following the concomitant use of 5-HT 3 receptor antagonists and other serotonergic drugs, including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs).

=== LOSARTAN POTASSIUM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Losartan potassium tablets are an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) indicated for: • Treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure in adults and children greater than 6 years old. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. (1.1) • Reduction of the risk of stroke in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. There is evidence that this benefit does not apply to Black patients. (1.2) • Treatment of diabetic nephropathy with an elevated serum creatinine and proteinuria in patients with type 2 diabetes and a history of hypertension. (1.3) 1.1 Hypertension Losartan potassium tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension in adults and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure lowers the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular (CV) events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarction. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including losartan. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than 1 drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program's Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in Black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. Losartan potassium tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. 1.2 Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy Losartan potassium tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy, but there is evidence that this benefit does not apply to Black patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 1.3 Nephropathy in Type 2 Diabetic Patients Losartan potassium tablets are indicated for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy with an elevated serum creatinine and proteinuria (urinary albumin to creatinine ratio ≥300 mg/g) in patients with type 2 diabetes and a history of hypertension. In this population, losartan potassium reduces the rate of progression of nephropathy as measured by the occurrence of doubling of serum creatinine or end stage renal disease (need for dialysis or renal transplantation) [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are a combination of losartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and hydrochlorothiazide, a diuretic indicated for: Treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. ( 1.1 ) Reduction of the risk of stroke in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Hypertension Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure lowers the risk of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular (CV) events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarction. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including losartan and hydrochlorothiazide. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). This fixed dose combination is not indicated for initial therapy of hypertension, except when the hypertension is severe enough that the value of achieving prompt blood pressure control exceeds the risk of initiating combination therapy in these patients [see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )]. Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. 1.2 Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy, but there is evidence that this benefit does not apply to Black patients. [See Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ), and Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ).] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Losartan potassium is an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) indicated for: Treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure in adults and children greater than 6 years old. ( 1.2 ) Treatment of diabetic nephropathy with an elevated serum creatinine and proteinuria in patients with type 2 diabetes and a history of hypertension. ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Hypertension Losartan potassium is indicated for the treatment of hypertension in adults and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older, to lower blood pressure. Losartan potassium may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. 1.2 Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy Losartan potassium is indicated to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy, but there is evidence that this benefit does not apply to Black patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 1.3 Nephropathy in Type 2 Diabetic Patients Losartan potassium is indicated for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy with an elevated serum creatinine and proteinuria (urinary albumin to creatinine ratio ≥300 mg/g) in patients with type 2 diabetes and a history of hypertension. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Losartan potassium tablet is an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) indicated for: • Treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure in adults and children greater than 6 years old. ( 1.1 ) • Reduction of the risk of stroke in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. ( 1.2 ) • Treatment of diabetic nephropathy with an elevated serum creatinine and proteinuria in patients with type 2 diabetes and a history of hypertension. ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Hypertension Losartan potassium tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension in adults and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older, to lower blood pressure. 1.2 Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy Losartan potassium tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy, but there is evidence that this benefit does not apply to Black patients [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In this population, losartan potassium tablets reduces the rate of progression of nephropathy as measured by the occurrence of doubling of serum creatinine or end stage renal disease (need for dialysis or renal transplantation) [ see Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet is a combination of losartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and hydrochlorothiazide, a diuretic indicated for: Treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. ( 1.1) Reduction of the risk of stroke in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Hypertension Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. 1.2 Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet is indicated to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy, but there is evidence that this benefit does not apply to Black patients. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Losartan potassium tablets are an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) indicated for: Treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure in adults and children greater than 6 years old. In this population, losartan potassium tablets reduces the rate of progression of nephropathy as measured by the occurrence of doubling of serum creatinine or end stage renal disease (need for dialysis or renal transplantation) [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. 1.2 Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy Losartan Potassium tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy, but there is evidence that this benefit does not apply to Black patients [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. In this population, losartan potassium tablets reduces the rate of progression of nephropathy as measured by the occurrence of doubling of serum creatinine or end stage renal disease (need for dialysis or renal transplantation) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide is a combination of losartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and hydrochlorothiazide, a diuretic indicated for: Treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Hypertension Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. This fixed dose combination is not indicated for initial therapy of hypertension, except when the hypertension is severe enough that the value of achieving prompt blood pressure control exceeds the risk of initiating combination therapy in these patients [see Clinical Studies (14) and Dosage and Administration (2.1) ]. Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. 1.2 Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide is indicated to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy, but there is evidence that this benefit does not apply to Black patients. [See Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , and Dosage and Administration (2.2) .] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Losartan potassium tablet USP is an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) indicated for: Treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure in adults and children greater than 6 years old. ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Hypertension Losartan potassium tablets USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension in adults and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older, to lower blood pressure. Losartan potassium tablets USP may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. 1.2 Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy Losartan potassium tablets USP are indicated to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy, but there is evidence that this benefit does not apply to Black patients [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.6 ) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. 1.3 Nephropathy in Type 2 Diabetic Patients Losartan potassium tablets USP are indicated for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy with an elevated serum creatinine and proteinuria (urinary albumin to creatinine ratio ≥300 mg/g) in patients with type 2 diabetes and a history of hypertension. In this population, losartan potassium tablets USP reduces the rate of progression of nephropathy as measured by the occurrence of doubling of serum creatinine or end stage renal disease (need for dialysis or renal transplantation) [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.3 )]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet is a combination of losartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and hydrochlorothiazide, a diuretic indicated for: • Treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. ( 1.1) • Reduction of the risk of stroke in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension • Usual adult dose: 50 mg once daily. (2.1) • Usual pediatric starting dose: 0.7 mg per kg once daily (up to 50 mg). (2.1) Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy • Usual starting dose: 50 mg once daily. (2.2) • Add hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg and/or increase losartan potassium to 100 mg followed by an increase to hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg if further blood pressure response is needed. (2.2 , 14.2) Nephropathy in Type 2 Diabetic Patients • Usual dose: 50 mg once daily. (2.3) • Increase dose to 100 mg once daily if further blood pressure response is needed. (2.3) 2.1 Hypertension Adult Hypertension The usual starting dose of losartan potassium tablets is 50 mg once daily. The dosage can be increased to a maximum dose of 100 mg once daily as needed to control blood pressure [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. A starting dose of 25 mg is recommended for patients with possible intravascular depletion (e.g., on diuretic therapy). Pediatric Hypertension The usual recommended starting dose is 0.7 mg per kg once daily (up to 50 mg total) administered as a tablet or a suspension [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Dosage should be adjusted according to blood pressure response. Doses above 1.4 mg per kg (or in excess of 100 mg) daily have not been studied in pediatric patients [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , Clinical Studies (14.1) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Losartan potassium tablets are not recommended in pediatric patients less than 6 years of age or in pediatric patients with estimated glomerular filtration rate less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , and Clinical Studies (14) ]. 2.2 Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy The usual starting dose is 50 mg of losartan potassium tablets once daily. Hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg daily should be added and/or the dose of losartan potassium should be increased to 100 mg once daily followed by an increase in hydrochlorothiazide to 25 mg once daily based on blood pressure response [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 2.3 Nephropathy in Type 2 Diabetic Patients The usual starting dose is 50 mg once daily. The dose should be increased to 100 mg once daily based on blood pressure response [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. 2.4 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Hepatic Impairment In patients with mild-to-moderate hepatic impairment the recommended starting dose of losartan potassium is 25 mg once daily. Losartan potassium has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Special Populations (8.8) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.5 Preparation of Suspension (for 200 mL of a 2.5 mg/mL suspension) Add 10 mL of Purified Water USP to an 8 ounce (240 mL) amber polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottle containing ten 50 mg losartan potassium tablets. Immediately shake for at least 2 minutes. Let the concentrate stand for 1 hour and then shake for 1 minute to disperse the tablet contents. Separately prepare a 50/50 volumetric mixture of Ora-Plus™ and Ora-Sweet SF™. Add 190 mL of the 50/50 Ora-Plus™/Ora-Sweet SF™ mixture to the tablet and water slurry in the PET bottle and shake for 1 minute to disperse the ingredients. The suspension should be refrigerated at 2 to 8°C (36 to 46°F) and can be stored for up to 4 weeks. Shake the suspension prior to each use and return promptly to the refrigerator. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension Usual starting dose: 50/12.5 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) Titrate as needed to a maximum dose of 100/25 mg. ( 2.1 ) Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy Not controlled on monotherapy: Initiate with 50/12.5 mg. Titrate as needed to a maximum of 100/25 mg. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Hypertension The usual starting dose of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is 50/12.5 (losartan 50 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg) once daily. The dosage can be increased after 3 weeks of therapy to a maximum of 100/25 (losartan 100 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg) once daily as needed to control blood pressure [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with losartan 50 mg monotherapy with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50/12.5 once daily. If blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy, the dosage may be increased to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50/12.5 once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100/25 once daily. Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with losartan 100 mg monotherapy with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100/12.5 (losartan 100 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg) once daily. If blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy, increase the dose to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50/12.5 once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100/25 once daily. Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is inadequately controlled with hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg once daily, or is controlled but who experiences hypokalemia with this regimen, on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50/12.5 once daily, reducing the dose of hydrochlorothiazide without reducing the overall expected antihypertensive response. Evaluate the clinical response to losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50/12.5 and, if blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy, increase the dose to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50/12.5 once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100/25 once daily. 2.2 Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy In patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on 50 mg losartan potassium, initiate treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50/12.5. If additional blood pressure reduction is needed, increase the dose to losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100/12.5, followed by losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100/25. For further blood pressure reduction add other antihypertensives [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension • Usual adult dose:50 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) • Usual pediatric starting dose: 0.7 mg per kg once daily (up to 50 mg). ( 2.1 ) Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy • Usual starting dose: 50 mg once daily. ( 2.2 ) • Add hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg and/or increase Losartan potassium to 100 mg followed by an increase to hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg if further blood pressure response is needed. ( 2.2 , 14.2 ) Nephropathy in Type 2 Diabetic Patients • Usual dose:50 mg once daily. ( 2.3 ) • Increase dose to 100 mg once daily if further blood pressure response is needed.( 2.3 ) 2.1 Hypertension Adult Hypertension The usual starting dose of Losartan potassium is 50 mg once daily. Pediatric Hypertension The usual recommended starting dose is 0.7 mg per kg once daily (up to 50 mg total) administered as a tablet or a suspension [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] . Doses above 1.4 mg per kg (or in excess of 100 mg) daily have not been studied in pediatric patients [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , Clinical Studies (14.1) ,and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Losartan potassium is not recommended in pediatric patients less than 6 years of age or in pediatric patients with estimated glomerular filtration rate less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , and Clinical Studies (14) ]. 2.2 Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy The usual starting dose is 50 mg of Losartan potassium once daily. Hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg daily should be added and/or the dose of Losartan potassium should be increased to 100 mg once daily followed by an increase in hydrochlorothiazide to 25 mg once daily based on blood pressure response [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . The dose should be increased to 100 mg once daily based on blood pressure response [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . Losartan potassium has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Special Populations (8.8) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Add 190 mL of the50/50 Ora-Plus™/Ora-Sweet SF™ mixture to the tablet and water slurry in the PET bottle and shake for 1 minute to disperse the ingredients. The suspension should be refrigerated at 2-8°C (36-46°F) and can be stored for up to 4 weeks. ( 2.2, 14.2 ) Nephropathy in Type 2 Diabetic Patients • Usual dose: 50 mg once daily. ( 2.3 ) • Increase dose to 100 mg once daily if further blood pressure response is needed. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Hypertension Adult Hypertension The usual starting dose of losartan potassium tablets is 50 mg once daily. The dosage can be increased to a maximum dose of 100 mg once daily as needed to control blood pressure [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Pediatric Hypertension The usual recommended starting dose is 0.7 mg per kg once daily (up to 50 mg total) administered as a tablet or a suspension [ see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Doses above 1.4 mg per kg (or in excess of 100 mg) daily have not been studied in pediatric patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3), Clinical Studies (14.1), and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Losartan potassium tablets are not recommended in pediatric patients less than 6 years of age or in pediatric patients with estimated glomerular filtration rate less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m2 [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.4), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , and Clinical Studies (14) ]. Hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg daily should be added and/or the dose of losartan potassium should be increased to 100 mg once daily followed by an increase in hydrochlorothiazide to 25 mg once daily based on blood pressure response [ see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. The dose should be increased to 100 mg once daily based on blood pressure response [ see Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. Losartan potassium has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.8) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Hypertension The usual starting dose of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet is 50/12.5 (losartan 50 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg) once daily. Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with losartan 50 mg monotherapy with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 50/12.5 once daily. If blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy, the dosage may be increased to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 50/12.5 once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 100/25 once daily. Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with losartan 100 mg monotherapy with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 100/12.5 (losartan 100 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg) once daily. If blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy, increase the dose to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 50/12.5 once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 100/25 once daily. Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is inadequately controlled with hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg once daily, or is controlled but who experiences hypokalemia with this regimen, on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 50/12.5 once daily, reducing the dose of hydrochlorothiazide without reducing the overall expected antihypertensive response. Evaluate the clinical response to losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 50/12.5 and, if blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy, increase the dose to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 50/12.5 once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 100/25 once daily. 2.2 Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy In patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on 50 mg losartan potassium, initiate treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 50/12.5. If additional blood pressure reduction is needed, increase the dose to losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 100/12.5, followed by losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 100/25. For further blood pressure reduction add other antihypertensives [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14 )]. ( 2.2 ) • Add hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg and/or increase losartan potassium tablets to 100 mg followed by an increase to hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg if further blood pressure response is needed. ( 2.2 , 14.2 ) Nephropathy in Type 2 Diabetic Patients • Usual dose: 50 mg once daily. Hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg daily should be added and/or the dose of losartan potassium tablets should be increased to 100 mg once daily followed by an increase in hydrochlorothiazide to 25 mg once daily based on blood pressure response [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . 2.4 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Hepatic Impairment In patients with mild-to-moderate hepatic impairment the recommended starting dose of losartan potassium tablets is 25 mg once daily. Losartan potassium tablets have not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.8) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Separately prepare a 50/50 volumetric mixture of Ora-Plus ™ and Ora-Sweet SF ™ . Add 190 mL of the 50/50 Ora-Plus ™ /Ora-Sweet SF ™ mixture to the tablet and water slurry in the PET bottle and shake for 1 minute to disperse the ingredients. The dosage can be increased to a maximum dose of 100 mg once daily as needed to control blood pressure [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. Pediatric Hypertension The usual recommended starting dose is 0.7 mg per kg once daily (up to 50 mg total) administered as a tablet or a suspension [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )]. Doses above 1.4 mg per kg (or in excess of 100 mg) daily have not been studied in pediatric patients [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ), Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ), and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Losartan Potassium tablets are not recommended in pediatric patients less than 6 years of age or in pediatric patients with estimated glomerular filtration rate less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4),Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ), and Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. Hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg daily should be added and/or the dose of losartan potassium tablets should be increased to 100 mg once daily followed by an increase in hydrochlorothiazide to 25 mg once daily based on blood pressure response [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. The dose should be increased to 100 mg once daily based on blood pressure response [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )]. Losartan potassium tablets has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Special Populations (8.8) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Separately prepare a 50/50 volumetric mixture of Ora-Plus TM and Ora-Sweet SF TM . Add 190 mL of the 50/50 Ora-Plus TM /Ora-Sweet SF TM mixture to the tablet and water slurry in the PET bottle and shake for 1 minute to disperse the ingredients. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension • Usual starting dose: 50/12.5 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) • Titrate as needed to a maximum dose of 100/25 mg. ( 2.1 ) Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy • Not controlled on monotherapy: Initiate with 50/12.5 mg. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Hypertension The usual starting dose of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide is 50/12.5 (losartan 50 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg) once daily. The dosage can be increased after 3 weeks of therapy to a maximum of 100/25 (losartan 100 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg) once daily as needed to control blood pressure [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with losartan 50 mg monotherapy with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 50/12.5 once daily. If blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy, the dosage may be increased to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 50/12.5 once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 100/25 once daily. Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with losartan 100 mg monotherapy with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 100/12.5 (losartan 100 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg) once daily. If blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy, increase the dose to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 50/12.5 once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 100/25 once daily. Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is inadequately controlled with hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg once daily, or is controlled but who experiences hypokalemia with this regimen, on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 50/12.5 once daily, reducing the dose of hydrochlorothiazide without reducing the overall expected antihypertensive response. Evaluate the clinical response to losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 50/12.5 and, if blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy, increase the dose to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 50/12.5 once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 100/25 once daily. 2.2 Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy In patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on 50 mg losartan potassium, initiate treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 50/12.5. If additional blood pressure reduction is needed, increase the dose to losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 100/12.5, followed by losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 100/25. For further blood pressure reduction add other antihypertensives [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension Usual adult dose: 50 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) Usual pediatric starting dose: 0.7 mg per kg once daily (up to 50 mg). ( 2.1 ) Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy Usual starting dose: 50 mg once daily. ( 2.2 ) Add hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg and/or increase losartan potassium tablets to 100 mg followed by an increase to hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg if further blood pressure response is needed. ( 2.2 , 14.2 ) Nephropathy in Type 2 Diabetic Patients Usual dose: 50 mg once daily. ( 2.3 ) Increase dose to 100 mg once daily if further blood pressure response is needed. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Hypertension Adult Hypertension The usual starting dose of losartan potassium tablets USP are 50 mg once daily. The dosage can be increased to a maximum dose of 100 mg once daily as needed to control blood pressure [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.1 )] . Pediatric Hypertension The usual recommended starting dose is 0.7 mg per kg once daily (up to 50 mg total) administered as a tablet or a suspension [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2.5 )] . Losartan potassium tablets are not recommended in pediatric patients less than 6 years of age or in pediatric patients with estimated glomerular filtration rate less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.4 ), CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 ), and CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14 )]. 2.4 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Hepatic Impairment In patients with mild-to-moderate hepatic impairment the recommended starting dose of losartan potassium tablet USP is 25 mg once daily. Losartan potassium tablet USP has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.8 ) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. Add 190 mL of the 50/50 Ora-Plus TM /Ora- Sweet SF TM mixture to the tablet and water slurry in the PET bottle and shake for 1 minute to disperse the ingredients.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Losartan potassium is contraindicated: • In patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. • For coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes. • Hypersensitivity to any component. (4) • Coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated: In patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. In patients with anuria For coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes Hypersensitivity to any component of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. ( 4 ) Anuria. ( 4 ) Coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Losartan potassium is contraindicated: In patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. For coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes. Hypersensitivity to any component. ( 4 ) • Coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet is contraindicated: In patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Losartan potassium tablets are contraindicated: In patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Losartan potassium tablets are contraindicated: • In patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide is contraindicated: In patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. In patients with anuria For coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes Hypersensitivity to any component of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet is contraindicated: • In patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. • In patients with anuria • For coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes • Hypersensitivity to any component of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. ( 4 ) • Anuria.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Agents Increasing Serum Potassium: Risk of hyperkalemia. (7.1) • Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity. (7.2) • NSAIDs: Increased risk of renal impairment and reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects. (7.3) • Dual Inhibition of the Renin-Angiotensin System: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, syncope, and hyperkalemia. (7.4) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of losartan with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. Monitor serum potassium in such patients. 7.2 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use. 7.3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including losartan) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving losartan and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including losartan, may be attenuated by NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors. 7.4 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 to 89.9 mL/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR, end stage renal disease, or death, but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group. In most patients no benefit has been associated with using two RAS inhibitors concomitantly. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on losartan potassium and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with losartan potassium in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with losartan potassium in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Agents increasing serum potassium: Risk of hyperkalemia. ( 7.1 ) Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity. ( 7.2 ) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): increased risk of renal impairment and reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects. ( 7.3 ) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, syncope, and hyperkalemia. ( 7.4 ) Antidiabetic drugs: dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required. ( 7.5 ) Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides. ( 7.5 ) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of losartan with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. 7.2 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported with concomitant use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists or thiazide diuretics. Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and lithium. 7.3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors Losartan Potassium In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including losartan) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Hydrochlorothiazide The administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent including a selective COX-2 inhibitor can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents including selective COX-2 inhibitors are used concomitantly, observe closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. In patients receiving diuretic therapy, coadministration of NSAIDs with angiotensin receptor blockers, including losartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving hydrochlorothiazide, losartan, and NSAID therapy. The Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial enrolled 1,448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 to 89.9 mL/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR, end-stage renal disease, or death, but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). 7.5 The Use of Hydrochlorothiazide with Other Drugs When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]: Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) — dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins — Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent, respectively. Stagger the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and the resin such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of the resin. ( 7.2 ) NSAIDs: Increased risk of renal impairment and reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of losartan with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. The Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 to 89.9 mL/min),randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. ( 7.1 ) • Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity. ( 7.2 ) • NSAIDs: Increased risk of renal impairment and reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects. ( 7.3 ) • Dual Inhibition of the Renin-Angiotensin System: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, syncope, and hyperkalemia. Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and lithium. Therefore, when losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents including selective COX-2 inhibitors are used concomitantly, observe closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. Avoid use of aliskiren with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). 7.5 The Use of Hydrochlorothiazide with Other Drugs When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]: Antidiabetic Drugs (Oral Agents and Insulin) Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Cholestyramine and Colestipol Resins Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. ( 7.3 ) • Dual nhibition of the Renin-Angiotensin System: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, syncope, and hyperkalemia. Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and lithium. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). 7.5 The Use of Hydrochlorothiazide with Other Drugs When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]: Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) — dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on losartan potassium tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with losartan potassium tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with losartan potassium tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). ( 7.2 ) • Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): increased risk of renal impairment and reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects. ( 7.4 ) • Antidiabetic drugs: dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required. ( 7.5 ) • Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides.

=== FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Allergy symptom reliever
Indications: Uses Temporarily relieves these symptoms of hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: nasal congestion itchy, watery eyes itchy nose runny nose sneezing INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluticasone Propionate Cream, 0.05% is a medium potency corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. Fluticasone Propionate Cream, 0.05% may be used with caution in pediatric patients 3 months of age or older. The safety and efficacy of drug use for longer than 4 weeks in this population have not been established. The safety and efficacy of Fluticasone Propionate Cream, 0.05% in pediatric patients below 3 months of age have not been established. Use s Temporarily relieves these symptoms of hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: • nasal congestion • runny nose • sneezing • itchy nose • itchy, watery eyes 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol Multidose Dry Powder Inhaler (FS MDPI) is indicated for the treatment of asthma in adult and pediatric patients aged 12 years and older. Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol MDPI should be used for patients not adequately controlled on a long term asthma control medication such as an inhaled corticosteroid or whose disease warrants initiation of treatment with both an inhaled corticosteroid and long acting beta 2 -adrenergic agonist (LABA). Limitations of Use : Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol MDPI is not indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm. Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol Multi-Dose Dry Powder Inhaler (MDPI) is a combination of fluticasone propionate, a corticosteroid, and salmeterol, a long-acting beta 2 -adrenergic agonist (LABA), indicated for treatment of asthma in adult and pediatric patients aged 12 years and older. Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol inhalation powder should be used for patients not adequately controlled on a long term asthma control medication such as an inhaled corticosteroid or whose disease warrants initiation of treatment with both an inhaled corticosteroid and long acting beta 2 -adrenergic agonist (LABA). ( 1 ) Limitations of Use : Not indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE FLOVENT DISKUS is indicated for the maintenance treatment of asthma as prophylactic therapy in patients aged 4 years and older. Important Limitation of Use FLOVENT DISKUS is NOT indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm. FLOVENT DISKUS is an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) indicated for: • Maintenance treatment of asthma as prophylactic therapy in patients aged 4 years and older. ( 1 ) Important limitation: • Not indicated for relief of acute bronchospasm. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder is a combination product containing a corticosteroid and a long-acting beta 2 -adrenergic agonist (LABA) indicated for: • Twice-daily treatment of asthma in patients aged 4 years and older. () • Maintenance treatment of airflow obstruction and reducing exacerbations in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). () Important Limitation of Use: Not indicated for relief of acute bronchospasm. (, ) 1.1 Treatment of Asthma Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder is indicated for the twice-daily treatment of asthma in patients aged 4 years and older. Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder should be used for patients not adequately controlled on a long-term asthma control medication such as an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) or whose disease warrants initiation of treatment with both an ICS and long-acting beta 2 -adrenergic agonist (LABA). Important Limitation of Use Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder is NOT indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm. 1.2 Maintenance Treatment of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder 250 mcg/50 mcg is indicated for the twice-daily maintenance treatment of airflow obstruction in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), including chronic bronchitis and/or emphysema. Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder 250 mcg/50 mcg is also indicated to reduce exacerbations of COPD in patients with a history of exacerbations. Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder 250 mcg/50 mcg twice daily is the only approved dosage for the treatment of COPD because an efficacy advantage of the higher strength fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder 500 mcg/50 mcg over fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder 250 mcg/50 mcg has not been demonstrated. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS is a combination product containing a corticosteroid and a long-acting beta 2 -adrenergic agonist (LABA) indicated for: Twice-daily treatment of asthma in patients aged 4 years and older. ( 1.1 ) Maintenance treatment of airflow obstruction and reducing exacerbations in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). ( 1.2 ) Important limitation of use: Not indicated for relief of acute bronchospasm. ( 1.1 , 1.2 ) 1.1 Treatment of Asthma Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS is indicated for the twice-daily treatment of asthma in patients aged 4 years and older. Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS should be used for patients not adequately controlled on a long-term asthma control medication such as an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) or whose disease warrants initiation of treatment with both an ICS and long-acting beta 2 -adrenergic agonist (LABA). Important Limitation of Use Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS is NOT indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm. 1.2 Maintenance Treatment of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS inhalation powder 250/50 mcg is indicated for the twice-daily maintenance treatment of airflow obstruction in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), including chronic bronchitis and/or emphysema. Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS inhalation powder 250/50 mcg is also indicated to reduce exacerbations of COPD in patients with a history of exacerbations. Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS inhalation powder 250/50 mcg twice daily is the only approved dosage for the treatment of COPD because an efficacy advantage of the higher strength Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS inhalation powder 500/50 mcg over Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS inhalation powder 250/50 mcg has not been demonstrated. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluticasone propionate nasal spray is indicated for the management of the nasal symptoms of perennial nonallergic rhinitis in adults and pediatric patients aged 4 years and older. Fluticasone propionate nasal spray is a corticosteroid indicated for the management of the nasal symptoms of perennial nonallergic rhinitis in adult and pediatric patients aged 4 years and older. Uses Temporarily relieves these symptoms of hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: • nasal congestion • itchy nose • runny nose • itchy, watery eyes • sneezing
Dosage: Directions read the Quick Start Guide for how to: prime the bottle use the spray clean the spray nozzle shake gently before each use use this product only once a day do not use more than directed ADULTS AND CHILDREN 12 YEARS OF AGE AND OLDER Week 1- use 2 sprays in each nostril once daily Week 2 through 6 months- use 1 or 2 sprays in each nostril once daily, as needed to treat your symptoms After 6 months of daily use – ask your doctor if you can keep using CHILDREN 4 TO 11 YEARS OF AGE the growth rate of some children may be slower while using this product. Children should use for the shortest amount of time necessary to achieve symptom relief. Talk to your child’s doctor if your child needs to use the spray for longer than two months a year. an adult should supervise use use 1 spray in each nostril once daily CHILDREN UNDER 4 YEARS OF AGE do not use DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Fluticasone Propionate Cream, 0.05% may be used in adult and pediatric patients 3 months of age or older. Safety and efficacy of Fluticasone Propionate Cream, 0.05% in pediatric patients for more than 4 weeks of use have not been established (see PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use ). The safety and efficacy of Fluticasone Propionate Cream, 0.05% in pediatric patients below 3 months of age have not been established. Atopic Dermatitis - Apply a thin film of Fluticasone Propionate Cream, 0.05% to the affected skin areas once or twice daily. Rub in gently. Other Corticosteroid-Responsive Dermatoses - Apply a thin film of Fluticasone Propionate Cream, 0.05% to the affected skin areas twice daily. As with other corticosteroids, therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved. If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks, reassessment of diagnosis may be necessary. Fluticasone Propionate Cream, 0.05% should not be used with occlusive dressings. Fluticasone Propionate Cream, 0.05% should not be applied in the diaper area, as diapers or plastic pants may constitute occlusive dressings. Geriatric Use - In studies where geriatric patients (65 years of age or older, see PRECAUTIONS ) have been treated with fluticasone propionate cream, 0.05%, safety did not differ from that in younger patients; therefore, no dosage adjustment is recommended. Directions read the Quick Start Guide for how to: prime the bottle use the spray clean the spray nozzle shake gently before each use use this product only once a day do not use more than directed ADULTS AND CHILDREN 12 YEARS OF AGE AND OLDER Week 1 - use 2 sprays in each nostril once daily Week 2 through 6 months - use 1 or 2 sprays in each nostril once daily, as needed to treat your symptoms After 6 months of daily use - ask your doctor if you can keep using CHILDREN 4 TO 11 YEARS OF AGE the growth rate of some children may be slower while using this product. Talk to your child's doctor if your child needs to use the spray for longer than two months a year. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For oral inhalation only. ( 2.1 ) Starting dosage is based on prior asthma therapy and disease severity. ( 2.2 ) 1 inhalation of Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol 55 mcg/14 mcg, 113 mcg/14 mcg, or 232 mcg/14 mcg twice daily. ( 2.2 ) Do not use with a spacer or volume holding chamber. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Administration Instructions Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol MDPI is for oral inhalation and does not require priming. Do not use Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol MDPI with a spacer or volume holding chamber. Do not use more than two times every 24 hours. More frequent administration or a greater number of daily inhalations (more than one inhalation twice daily) is not recommended as some patients are more likely to experience adverse reactions with higher salmeterol dosages. Avoid the concomitant use of other long acting beta 2 -adrenergic agonist (LABAs) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 , 5.11 )]. If asthma symptoms arise in the period between doses, an inhaled, short-acting beta 2 -agonist should be taken for immediate relief. 2.2 Recommended Dosage Administer 1 inhalation of Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol MDPI twice daily by oral inhalation (approximately 12 hours apart at the same time every day). Rinse the mouth with water without swallowing after each inhalation. Dosage Selection The recommended starting dosage for Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol MDPI is based on asthma severity and current inhaled corticosteroid use and strength. Patients not taking inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) (with less severe asthma): 1 inhalation of 55 mcg/14 mcg Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol MDPI dose strength (55 mcg of fluticasone propionate and 14 mcg of salmeterol), twice daily by oral inhalation. Patients with greater asthma severity, use the higher dose strengths: 1 inhalation of 113 mcg/14 mcg Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol MDPI (113 mcg of fluticasone propionate and 14 mcg of salmeterol) twice daily; or 1 inhalation of 232 mcg/14 mcg Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol MDPI (232 mcg of fluticasone propionate and 14 mcg of salmeterol) twice daily Patients switching to Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol MDPI from another inhaled corticosteroid or combination product: 1 inhalation of low (55 mcg/14 mcg), medium (113 mcg/14 mcg) or high (232 mcg/14 mcg) Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol MDPI twice daily by oral inhalation based on the strength of the previous inhaled corticosteroid product, or the strength of the inhaled corticosteroid from a combination product, and disease severity. The maximum recommended dosage of Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol MDPI is 232 mcg/14 mcg twice daily. General Dosing Information Improvement in asthma control following Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol MDPI administration can occur within 15 minutes of beginning treatment; although maximum benefit may not be achieved for 1 week or longer after starting treatment. Individual patients will experience a variable time to onset and degree of symptom relief. For patients who do not respond adequately to the starting dose of Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol MDPI after 2 weeks of therapy, consider increasing the strength (replace with higher strength) to possibly provide additional improvement in asthma control. If a previously effective dosage regimen fails to provide adequate improvement in asthma control, re-evaluate the therapeutic regimen, including patient compliance and inhaler technique, and consider additional therapeutic options (e.g., increasing the dose of Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol MDPI with a higher strength, adding additional controller therapies). After asthma stability has been achieved, it is desirable to titrate to the lowest effective dosage to reduce the risk of adverse reactions. 2.3 Storing and Cleaning the Inhaler Keep the inhaler in a cool dry place. Routine maintenance is not required. If the mouthpiece needs cleaning, gently wipe the mouthpiece with a dry cloth or tissue as needed. Never wash or put any part of the inhaler in water. 2.4 Dose Counter The Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol MDPI has a dose counter: The number 60 is displayed (prior to use). The dose counter will count down each time the mouthpiece is opened and closed [see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )]. 2.1 Administration Instructions Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol MDPI is for oral inhalation and does not require priming. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For oral inhalation only. ( 2.1 ) • Starting dosage is based on prior asthma therapy and disease severity. ( 2.2 ) • Treatment of asthma in patients aged 12 years and older: 100 mcg twice daily up to a maximum recommended dosage of 1,000 mcg twice daily. ( 2.2 ) • Treatment of asthma in patients aged 4 to 11 years: 50 mcg twice daily up to a maximum recommended dosage of 100 mcg twice daily. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Administration Information FLOVENT DISKUS should be administered by the orally inhaled route in patients aged 4 years and older. After inhalation, the patient should rinse his/her mouth with water without swallowing to help reduce the risk of oropharyngeal candidiasis. 2.2 Recommended Dosage Adult and Adolescent Patients Aged 12 Years and Older The starting dosage is based on previous asthma therapy and asthma severity, including consideration of patients’ current control of asthma symptoms and risk of future exacerbation. The recommended starting dosage for patients aged 12 years and older who are not on an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) is 100 mcg twice daily, approximately 12 hours apart. For other patients, and for patients who do not respond adequately to the starting dosage after 2 weeks of therapy, higher dosages may provide additional asthma control. The maximum recommended dosage for patients aged 12 years and older is 1,000 mcg twice daily. Pediatric Patients Aged 4 to 11 Years The starting dosage is based on previous asthma therapy and asthma severity, including consideration of patients’ current control of asthma symptoms and risk of future exacerbation. For patients aged 4 to 11 years not on an ICS, the recommended starting dosage is 50 mcg twice daily, approximately 12 hours apart. For other patients, and for patients who do not respond adequately to the starting dosage after 2 weeks of therapy, increasing the dosage to 100 mcg twice daily may provide additional asthma control. The maximum recommended dosage for patients aged 4 to 11 years is 100 mcg twice daily. General Dosing Recommendations If symptoms arise between doses, an inhaled short-acting beta 2 -agonist should be used for immediate relief. Maximum benefit may not be achieved for 1 to 2 weeks or longer after starting treatment. If a dosage regimen fails to provide adequate control of asthma, the therapeutic regimen should be re-evaluated and additional therapeutic options, e.g., replacing the current strength with a higher strength, initiating an ICS and long-acting beta2-agonist (LABA) combination product, or initiating oral corticosteroids, should be considered. After asthma stability has been achieved, titrate to the lowest effective dosage to reduce the possibility of side effects. Directions read the Quick Start Guide for how to: prime the bottle use the spray clean the spray nozzle shake gently before each use use this product only once a day do not use more than directed ADULTS AND CHILDREN 12 YEARS OF AGE AND OLDER Week 1 – use 2 sprays in each nostril once daily Week 2 through 6 months – use 1 or 2 sprays in each nostril once daily, as needed to treat your symptoms After 6 months of daily use – ask your doctor if you can keep using CHILDREN 4 TO 11 YEARS OF AGE the growth rate of some children may be slower while using this product. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder should be administered as 1 inhalation twice daily by the orally inhaled route only. More frequent administration or a greater number of inhalations (more than 1 inhalation twice daily) of the prescribed strength of fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder is not recommended as some patients are more likely to experience adverse effects with higher doses of salmeterol. Patients using fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder should not use additional LABA for any reason [see Warnings and Precautions ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. , )] . • For oral inhalation only. ( 2 ) • Treatment of Asthma in Patients Aged 12 Years and Older: 1 inhalation of fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder 100 mcg/50 mcg, fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder 250 mcg/50 mcg, or fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder 500 mcg/50 mcg twice daily. Starting dosage is based on asthma severity. () • Treatment of Asthma in Patients Aged 4 to 11 Years: 1 inhalation of fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder 100 mcg/50 mcg twice daily. () • Maintenance Treatment of COPD: 1 inhalation of fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder 250 mcg/50 mcg twice daily. () 2.1 Asthma If asthma symptoms arise in the period between doses, an inhaled, short-acting beta 2 -agonist should be taken for immediate relief. Adult and Adolescent Patients Aged 12 Years and Older For patients aged 12 years and older, the dosage is 1 inhalation twice daily, approximately 12 hours apart. When choosing the starting dosage strength of fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder, consider the patients’ disease severity, based on their previous asthma therapy, including the ICS dosage, as well as the patients’ current control of asthma symptoms and risk of future exacerbation. The maximum recommended dosage is fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder 500 mcg/50 mcg twice daily. Improvement in asthma control following inhaled administration of fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder can occur within 30 minutes of beginning treatment, although maximum benefit may not be achieved for 1 week or longer after starting treatment. For patients who do not respond adequately to the starting dosage after 2 weeks of therapy, replacing the current strength of fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder with a higher strength may provide additional improvement in asthma control. If a previously effective dosage regimen fails to provide adequate improvement in asthma control, the therapeutic regimen should be reevaluated and additional therapeutic options (e.g., replacing the current strength of fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder with a higher strength, adding additional ICS, initiating oral corticosteroids) should be considered. Pediatric Patients Aged 4 to 11 Years For patients with asthma aged 4 to 11 years who are not controlled on an ICS, the dosage is 1 inhalation of fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder 100 mcg/50 mcg twice daily, approximately 12 hours apart. 2.2 Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease The recommended dosage for patients with COPD is 1 inhalation of fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder 250 mcg/50 mcg twice daily, approximately 12 hours apart. If shortness of breath occurs in the period between doses, an inhaled, short-acting beta 2 -agonist should be taken for immediate relief. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS should be administered as 1 inhalation twice daily by the orally inhaled route only. More frequent administration or a greater number of inhalations (more than 1 inhalation twice daily) of the prescribed strength of Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS is not recommended as some patients are more likely to experience adverse effects with higher doses of salmeterol. Patients using Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS should not use additional LABA for any reason. [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 , 5.12 ).] For oral inhalation only. ( 2 ) Treatment of asthma in patients aged 12 years and older: 1 inhalation of Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS inhalation powder 100/50 mcg, Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS inhalation powder 250/50 mcg, and Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS inhalation powder 500/50 mcg twice daily. ( 2.1 ) Treatment of asthma in patients aged 4 to 11 years: 1 inhalation of Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS inhalation powder 100/50 mcg twice daily. ( 2.1 ) Maintenance treatment of COPD: 1 inhalation of Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS inhalation powder 250/50 mcg twice daily. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Asthma If asthma symptoms arise in the period between doses, an inhaled, short-acting beta 2 -agonist should be taken for immediate relief. When choosing the starting dosage strength of Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS, consider the patients’ disease severity, based on their previous asthma therapy, including the ICS dosage, as well as the patients’ current control of asthma symptoms and risk of future exacerbation. The maximum recommended dosage is Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS inhalation powder 500/50 mcg twice daily. Improvement in asthma control following inhaled administration of Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS can occur within 30 minutes of beginning treatment, although maximum benefit may not be achieved for 1 week or longer after starting treatment. For patients who do not respond adequately to the starting dosage after 2 weeks of therapy, replacing the current strength of Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS with a higher strength may provide additional improvement in asthma control. If a previously effective dosage regimen fails to provide adequate improvement in asthma control, the therapeutic regimen should be reevaluated and additional therapeutic options (e.g., replacing the current strength of Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS with a higher strength, adding additional ICS, initiating oral corticosteroids) should be considered. Pediatric Patients Aged 4 to 11 Years For patients with asthma aged 4 to 11 years who are not controlled on an ICS, the dosage is 1 inhalation of Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS inhalation powder 100/50 mcg twice daily, approximately 12 hours apart. 2.2 Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease The recommended dosage for patients with COPD is 1 inhalation of Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS inhalation powder 250/50 mcg twice daily, approximately 12 hours apart. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer fluticasone propionate nasal spray by the intranasal route only. Prime fluticasone propionate nasal spray before using for the first time or after a period of non-use (1 week or more) by shaking the contents well and releasing 6 sprays into the air away from the face. Shake fluticasone propionate nasal spray gently before each use. Patients should use fluticasone propionate nasal spray at regular intervals since its effectiveness depends on its regular use. Maximum effect may take several days and individual patients will experience a variable time to onset and different degree of symptom relief. For intranasal use only. Recommended starting dosages: • Adults: 2 sprays per nostril once daily (200 mcg per day). ( 2.1 ) • Adolescents and children aged 4 years and older: 1 spray per nostril once daily (100 mcg per day). ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Adults The recommended starting dosage in adults is 2 sprays (50 mcg of fluticasone propionate each) in each nostril once daily (total daily dose, 200 mcg). The same total daily dose, 1 spray in each nostril administered twice daily (e.g., 8 a.m. and 8 p.m.) is also effective. After the first few days, patients may be able to reduce their dose to 1 spray in each nostril once daily for maintenance therapy. Maximum total daily doses should not exceed 2 sprays in each nostril (total dose, 200 mcg/day). There is no evidence that exceeding the recommended dose is more effective. 2.2 Adolescents and Children (Aged 4 Years and Older) The recommended starting dosage in adolescents and children, aged 4 years and older is 1 spray in each nostril once daily (total daily dose, 100 mcg). Patients not adequately responding to 1 spray in each nostril may use 2 sprays in each nostril once daily (total daily dose, 200 mcg). Once adequate control is achieved, the dosage should be decreased to 1 spray in each nostril once daily. The maximum total daily dosage should not exceed 2 sprays in each nostril (200 mcg/day). Directions • read the Quick Start Guide for how to: • prime the bottle • use the spray • clean the spray nozzle • shake gently before each use • use this product only once a day • do not use more than directed ADULTS AND CHILDREN 12 YEARS OF AGE AND OLDER • Week 1 – use 2 sprays in each nostril once daily • Week 2 through 6 months – use 1 or 2 sprays in each nostril once daily, as needed to treat your symptoms • After 6 months of daily use – ask your doctor if you can keep using CHILDREN 4 TO 11 YEARS OF AGE • the growth rate of some children may be slower while using this product. • an adult should supervise use • use 1 spray in each nostril once daily CHILDREN UNDER 4 YEARS OF AGE • do not use
Warnings: Warnings Only for use in the nose. Do not spray into your eyes or mouth. Do not use in children under 4 years of age to treat asthma if you have an injury or surgery to your nose that is not fully healed if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of the ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have or had glaucoma or cataracts Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking medicine for HIV infection (such as ritonavir) a steroid medicine for asthma, allergies or skin rash ketoconazole pills (medicine for fungal infection) When using this product the growth rate of some children may be slower stinging or sneezing may occur for a few seconds right after use do not share this bottle with anyone else as this may spread germs remember to tell your doctor about all the medicines you take, including this one Stop use and ask a doctor if you have, or come into contact with someone who has, chicken pox, measles or tuberculosis your symptoms do not get better within 7 days of starting use or you get new symptoms such as severe facial pain or thick nasal discharge. You may have something more than allergies, such as an infection. you get a constant whistling sound from your nose. This may be a sign of damage inside your nose. you get an allergic reaction to this product. Seek medical help right away. you get new changes to your vision that develop after starting this product you have severe or frequent nosebleeds If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE NASAL SPRAY, USP QUICK START GUIDE HOW TO START GETTING ALLERGY RELIEF RIGHT NOW USE THE RIGHT DOSE Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP works best when you use it daily. Here’s how to get started. Children age 4 to 11 An adult should supervise use Use one spray in each nostril once daily. Don’t use more than one spray in each nostril per day. If you miss a dose , just use your regular dose the next day. Don’t add an extra dose. Check with a doctor if a child needs to use Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP for longer than two months a year. Users age 12 or older In your first week Use two sprays in each nostril every day. Don’t use more than two sprays in each nostril per day. After your first week If your symptoms are under control, you may reduce to one spray in each nostril every day. If your symptoms get worse, go back to two sprays in each nostril. If you miss a dose, just use your regular dose the next day. WARNING: Do not spray in your eyes. Only for use in your nose. KEEP IT CLEAN A clean spray nozzle helps ensure a full dose. Clean it weekly, or if it’s clogged. Don’t try to unblock nozzle with pin or sharp object – that can damage it. Remove spray nozzle by grasping at base and pulling up. Rinse under running tap, and dry at room temperature. Aim away from your face and gently replace spray nozzle until you hear a soft click. If spray nozzle is clogged, soak in warm water. Then repeat steps 2 and 3 . GET THE RELIEF YOU NEED Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP can relieve your allergy symptoms. For best results, it’s important to get a full dose. Here’s how, in five easy steps. 1 Shake Gently shake spray bottle. Remove translucent cap. 2 Prime Do this when: • Starting new bottle • Haven’t used it in a week • Just cleaned nozzle Otherwise go to Step 3. Aim away from face. Grasp spray bottle as shown. Pump until fine mist appears. Pumped six times and still no mist? Spray nozzle may be clogged. See KEEP IT CLEAN. 3 Blow Blow nose gently to clear nostrils. 4 Aim Close one nostril and put tip of spray nozzle in other nostril. Put just the tip into your nose. Aim slightly away from center of nose. 5 Breathe and Spray While sniffing gently, press down on spray nozzle once or twice (according to dosing instructions). You’ll feel a light mist in your nose. Breathe out through your mouth. Repeat in other nostril. Wipe spray nozzle with clean tissue and replace cap. Distributed by: AUROHEALTH LLC 279 Princeton-Hightstown Road East Windsor, NJ 08520 Made in India Code: AP/DRUGS/04/2016 Revised: 12/2025 Figure 6 Figure 7 Figure 8 Figure 9 Figure 10 Figure 11 Figure 12 Figure 13 Figure 14 Figure 15 Figure 16 Figure 17 Figure 18 Figure 19 Figure 20 Figure 21 Figure 22 Figure 23 Do not use • in children under 4 years of age • to treat asthma • if you have an injury or surgery to your nose that is not fully healed • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of the ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have or had glaucoma or cataracts Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking • medicine for HIV infection (such as ritonavir) • a steroid medicine for asthma, allergies or skin rash • ketoconazole pills (medicine for fungal infection) When using this product • the growth rate of some children may be slower • stinging or sneezing may occur for a few seconds right after use • do not share this bottle with anyone else as this may spread germs • remember to tell your doctor about all the medicines you take, including this one Stop use and ask a doctor if • you have, or come into contact with someone who has, chicken pox, measles or tuberculosis • your symptoms do not get better within 7 days of starting use or you get new symptoms such as severe facial pain or thick nasal discharge. • you get a constant whistling sound from your nose. • you get an allergic reaction to this product. • you get new changes to your vision that develop after starting this product • you have severe or frequent nosebleeds If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Fluticasone Propionate Cream, 0.05% is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components in the preparation (see PRECAUTIONS ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol MDPI is contraindicated in: the primary treatment of status asthmaticus or other acute episodes of asthma where intensive measures are required [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . patients with known severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins or who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to fluticasone propionate or any of the excipients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 ) and Description ( 11 )] . Primary treatment of status asthmaticus or acute episodes of asthma requiring intensive measures. ( 4 ) Severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins or any ingredients of Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol MDPI. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of FLOVENT DISKUS is contraindicated in the following conditions: • Primary treatment of status asthmaticus or other acute episodes of asthma where intensive measures are required [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] • Severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins or demonstrated hypersensitivity to fluticasone propionate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6), Adverse Reactions (6.2), Description (11)] • Primary treatment of status asthmaticus or acute episodes of asthma requiring intensive measures. ( 4 ) • Severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins or demonstrated hypersensitivity to fluticasone propionate. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder is contraindicated in the following conditions: • Primary treatment of status asthmaticus or other acute episodes of asthma or COPD where intensive measures are required [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] . • Severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins or demonstrated hypersensitivity to fluticasone propionate, salmeterol, or any of the excipients [see Warnings and Precautions ( ), Adverse Reactions (), Description ( )] . • Primary treatment of status asthmaticus or acute episodes of asthma or COPD requiring intensive measures. ( 4 ) • Severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins or demonstrated hypersensitivity to fluticasone propionate, salmeterol, or any of the excipients. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS is contraindicated in the following conditions: Primary treatment of status asthmaticus or other acute episodes of asthma or COPD where intensive measures are required [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins or demonstrated hypersensitivity to fluticasone propionate, salmeterol, or any of the excipients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6.3 ), Description ( 11 )] . Primary treatment of status asthmaticus or acute episodes of asthma or COPD requiring intensive measures. ( 4 ) Severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins or demonstrated hypersensitivity to fluticasone propionate, salmeterol, or any of the excipients. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Fluticasone propionate nasal spray is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to any of its ingredients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Description (11)] . Hypersensitivity to any ingredient.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol MDPI has been used concomitantly with other drugs, including short‑acting beta 2 ‑agonists, and intranasal corticosteroids, commonly used in patients with asthma without adverse drug reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . No formal drug interaction trials have been performed with Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol MDPI. Avoid strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole): May increase risk of systemic corticosteroid and cardiovascular effects. ( 7.1 ) Monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants: Use with extreme caution. May potentiate effect of salmeterol on vascular system. ( 7.2 ) Beta‑blockers: Use with caution. May block bronchodilatory effects of beta‑agonists and produce severe bronchospasm. ( 7.3 ) Diuretics: Use with caution. Electrocardiographic changes and/or hypokalemia associated with non‑potassium‑sparing diuretics may worsen with concomitant beta‑agonists. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol, the individual components of this product, are substrates of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol MDPI is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir : Fluticasone Propionate: A drug interaction trial with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole : Fluticasone Propionate: Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in a 1.9‑fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC) but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Salmeterol: In a drug interaction trial in 20 healthy subjects, coadministration of inhaled salmeterol (50 mcg twice daily) and oral ketoconazole (400 mg once daily) for 7 days resulted in greater systemic exposure to salmeterol (AUC increased 16‑fold and C max increased 1.4‑fold). Three (3) subjects were withdrawn due to beta 2 ‑agonist side effects (2 with prolonged QTc and 1 with palpitations and sinus tachycardia). Although there was no statistical effect on the mean QTc, coadministration of salmeterol and ketoconazole was associated with more frequent increases in QTc duration compared with salmeterol and placebo administration [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol MDPI should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents, because the action of salmeterol, a component of this product, on the vascular system may be potentiated by these agents. 7.3 Beta-Adrenergic Receptor Blocking Agents Beta‑blockers not only block the pulmonary effect of beta‑agonists, such as salmeterol, a component of this product, but may also produce severe bronchospasm in patients with asthma. Therefore, patients with asthma should not normally be treated with beta‑blockers. However, under certain circumstances, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta‑adrenergic blocking agents for these patients; cardioselective beta‑blockers could be considered, although they should be administered with caution. 7.4 Non-Potassium-Sparing Diuretics The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of non–potassium‑sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta‑agonists, such as salmeterol, a component of this product, especially when the recommended dose of the beta‑agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol MDPI with non-potassium‑sparing diuretics. 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol, the individual components of this product, are substrates of CYP3A4. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole): Use not recommended. May increase risk of systemic corticosteroid effects. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with FLOVENT DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir A drug interaction trial with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Ketoconazole Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in a 1.9-fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder has been used concomitantly with other drugs, including short-acting beta 2 -agonists, methylxanthines, and intranasal corticosteroids, commonly used in patients with asthma or COPD without adverse drug reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology ( )] . No formal drug interaction trials have been performed with fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder. • Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole): Use not recommended. May increase risk of systemic corticosteroid and cardiovascular effects. () • Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants: Use with extreme caution. () • Beta-blockers: Use with caution. May block bronchodilatory effects of beta-agonists and produce severe bronchospasm. () • Diuretics: Use with caution. Electrocardiographic changes and/or hypokalemia associated with non–potassium-sparing diuretics may worsen with concomitant beta-agonists. () 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol, the individual components of fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder, are substrates of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir Fluticasone Propionate: A drug interaction trial with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( )] . Ketoconazole Fluticasone Propionate: Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in a 1.9-fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Salmeterol: In a drug interaction trial in 20 healthy subjects, coadministration of inhaled salmeterol (50 mcg twice daily) and oral ketoconazole (400 mg once daily) for 7 days resulted in greater systemic exposure to salmeterol (AUC increased 16-fold and C max increased 1.4-fold). Three (3) subjects were withdrawn due to beta 2 -agonist side effects (2 with prolonged QTc and 1 with palpitations and sinus tachycardia). Although there was no statistical effect on the mean QTc, coadministration of salmeterol and ketoconazole was associated with more frequent increases in QTc duration compared with salmeterol and placebo administration. 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents, because the action of salmeterol, a component of fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder, on the vascular system may be potentiated by these agents. 7.3 Beta-adrenergic Receptor Blocking Agents Beta-blockers not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as salmeterol, a component of fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder, but may also produce severe bronchospasm in patients with asthma or COPD. Therefore, patients with asthma or COPD should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. However, under certain circumstances, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents for these patients; cardioselective beta-blockers could be considered, although they should be administered with caution. 7.4 Non–Potassium-Sparing Diuretics The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of non–potassium‑ sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, such as salmeterol, a component of fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder with non–potassium-sparing diuretics. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Fluticasone propionate/salmeterol DISKUS has been used concomitantly with other drugs, including short-acting beta 2 -agonists, methylxanthines, and intranasal corticosteroids, commonly used in patients with asthma or COPD without adverse drug reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . No formal drug interaction trials have been performed with fluticasone propionate/salmeterol DISKUS. Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole): Use not recommended. ( 7.2 ) Beta-blockers: Use with caution. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol, the individual components of Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS, are substrates of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir Fluticasone Propionate: A drug interaction trial with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents, because the action of salmeterol, a component of Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS, on the vascular system may be potentiated by these agents. 7.3 Beta-adrenergic Receptor Blocking Agents Beta-blockers not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as salmeterol, a component of Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS, but may also produce severe bronchospasm in patients with asthma or COPD. 7.4 Non–Potassium-Sparing Diuretics The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of non–potassium-sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, such as salmeterol, a component of Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol DISKUS with non–potassium-sparing diuretics. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin, conivaptan, lopinavir, nefazodone, voriconazole) with fluticasone propionate nasal spray is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir : A drug interaction trial with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate products, including fluticasone propionate nasal spray, with ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole : Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in a 1.9-fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol.

=== NAPROXEN ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Pain reliever/fever reducer Purposes Pain reliever/fever reducer Purpose Nighttime sleep-aid Pain reliever
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Naproxen tablets and naproxen sodium tablets are indicated for: the relief of the signs and symptoms of: • rheumatoid arthritis • osteoarthritis • ankylosing spondylitis • Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis Naproxen tablets and naproxen sodium tablets are also indicated for: the relief of signs and symptoms of: • tendonitis • bursitis • acute gout the management of: • pain • primary dysmenorrhea Naproxen tablets and naproxen sodium tablets are non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs indicated for: the relief of the signs and symptoms of: • rheumatoid arthritis • osteoarthritis • ankylosing spondylitis • polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis Naproxen tablets and naproxen sodium tablets are also indicated for: the relief of signs and symptoms of: • tendonitis • bursitis • acute gout the management of: • pain • primary dysmenorrhea Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: minor pain of arthritis muscular aches backache menstrual cramps headache toothache the common cold temporarily reduces fever 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Naproxen delayed-release tablets are indicated for: The relief of the signs and symptoms of: rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis ankylosing spondylitis polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis Naproxen delayed-release tablets are non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs indicated for: the relief of the signs and symptoms of: rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis ankylosing spondylitis polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis Uses • temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: • minor pain of arthritis • muscular aches • backache • menstrual cramps • headache • toothache • the common cold • temporarily reduces fever Uses for relief of occasional sleeplessness when associated with minor aches and pains help you fall asleep and stay asleep
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dosage for shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals. ( 2.1 ) Rheumatoid Arthritis, Osteoarthritis, and Ankylosing Spondylitis Naproxen tablets 250 mg (one-half tablet) 500 mg twice daily Naproxen sodium tablets 275 mg (one-half tablet) 550 mg twice daily The dose may be adjusted up or down depending on the clinical response of the patient. In patients who tolerate lower doses well, the dose may be increased to naproxen 1500 mg/ day for up to 6 months. Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis Naproxen tablets may not allow for the flexible dose titration needed in pediatric patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis. A liquid formulation may be more appropriate. Recommended total daily dose of naproxen is approximately 10 mg/kg given in 2 divided doses. Dosing with naproxen tablets is not appropriate for children weighing less than 50 kilograms. Management of Pain, Primary Dysmenorrhea, and Acute Tendonitis and Bursitis Recommended starting dose 550 mg of naproxen sodium as naproxen sodium tablets followed by 550 mg every 12 hours or 275 mg every 6 to 8 hours as required. The initial total daily dose should not exceed 1375 mg of naproxen sodium. Thereafter, the total daily dose should not exceed 1100 mg of naproxen sodium. Naproxen sodium tablets are recommended for the management of acute painful conditions when prompt onset of pain relief is desired. Acute Gout Recommended starting dose 750 mg of naproxen tablets followed by 250 mg every 8 hours until the attack has subsided. Naproxen sodium tablets may also be used at a starting dose of 825 mg followed by 275 mg every 8 hours. 2.1 General Dosing Instructions Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of naproxen tablets and naproxen sodium tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use naproxen tablets and naproxen sodium tablets. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ]. After observing the response to initial therapy with naproxen tablets or naproxen sodium tablets, the dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient’s needs. Naproxen-containing products such as naproxen and naproxen sodium tablets, and other naproxen products should not be used concomitantly since they all circulate in the plasma as the naproxen anion. 2.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis, Osteoarthritis and Ankylosing Spondylitis The recommended dosages of naproxen tablets and naproxen sodium tablets are shown in Table 1. Table 1: Recommended dosages for naproxen tablets and naproxen sodium tablets Naproxen tablets 250 mg (one half tablet) 500 mg twice daily Naproxen sodium tablets 275 mg (one half tablet) 550 mg (naproxen 500 mg with 50 mg sodium) twice daily During long-term administration, the dose of naproxen may be adjusted up or down depending on the clinical response of the patient. A lower daily dose may suffice for long-term administration. The morning and evening doses do not have to be equal in size and administration of the drug more frequently than twice daily does not generally make a difference in response. In patients who tolerate lower doses well, the dose may be increased to naproxen 1500 mg/day for limited periods of up to 6 months when a higher level of anti-inflammatory/analgesic activity is required. When treating such patients with naproxen 1500 mg/day, the physician should observe sufficient increased clinical benefits to offset the potential increased risk. 2.3 Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis Naproxen solid-oral dosage forms may not allow for the flexible dose titration needed in pediatric patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis. A liquid formulation may be more appropriate for weight-based dosing and due to the need for dose flexibility in children. In pediatric patients, doses of 5 mg/kg/day produced plasma levels of naproxen similar to those seen in adults taking 500 mg of naproxen [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 ) ]. The recommended total daily dose of naproxen is approximately 10 mg/kg given in 2 divided doses. 2.4 Management of Pain, Primary Dysmenorrhea, and Acute Tendonitis and Bursitis The recommended starting dose of naproxen sodium tablets is 550 mg followed by 550 mg every 12 hours or 275 mg (one half of a 550 mg tablet) every 6 to 8 hours as required. The initial total daily dose should not exceed 1375 mg (two and one-half tablets) of naproxen sodium. Because the sodium salt of naproxen is more rapidly absorbed, naproxen sodium tablets is recommended for the management of acute painful conditions when prompt onset of pain relief is desired. Naproxen tablets may also be used. The recommended starting dose of naproxen tablets is 500 mg followed by 250 mg (one half of a 500 mg naproxen tablet) every 6 to 8 hours as required. The total daily dose should not exceed 1250 mg of naproxen. 2.5 Acute Gout The recommended starting dose is 750 mg (one and one-half tablets) of naproxen tablets followed by 250 mg (one-half tablet) every 8 hours until the attack has subsided. Naproxen sodium tablets may also be used at a starting dose of 825 mg (one and one-half tablets) followed by 275 mg (one-half tablet) every 8 hours. 2.6 Non-Interchangeability with Other Formulations of Naproxen Different dose strengths and formulations (e.g., tablets, suspension) of naproxen are not interchangeable. This difference should be taken into consideration when changing strengths or formulations. Directions do not take more than directed the smallest effective dose should be used drink a full glass of water with each dose Adults and children 12 years and older: take 1 caplet every 8 to 12 hours while symptoms last for the first dose you may take 2 caplets within the first hour do not exceed 2 caplets in any 8 to 12 hour period do not exceed 3 caplets in a 24 hour period Children under 12 years: ask a doctor (2.1) Rheumatoid Arthritis, Osteoarthritis, and Ankylosing Spondylitis Naproxen delayed-release tablets 375 mg or 500 mg Twice daily To maintain the integrity of the enteric coating, the naproxen delayed-release tablet should not be broken, crushed or chewed during ingestion. The dose may be adjusted up or down depending on the clinical response of the patient. In patients who tolerate lower doses well, the dose may be increased to naproxen 1500 mg/day for up to 6 months. Acute Gout Naproxen delayed-release tablets are not recommended because of the delay in absorption. 2.1 General Dosing Instructions Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of naproxen delayed-release tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use naproxen delayed-release tablets. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals. [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ] . After observing the response to initial therapy with naproxen delayed-release tablets, the dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient’s needs. To maintain the integrity of the enteric coating, the naproxen delayed-release tablet should not be broken, crushed or chewed during ingestion. Naproxen-containing products such as naproxen delayed-release tablets and other naproxen products should not be used concomitantly since they all circulate in the plasma as the naproxen anion. 2.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis, Osteoarthritis and Ankylosing Spondylitis The recommended dosages of naproxen delayed-release tablets are shown in Table 1. Table 1: Recommended dosages for Naproxen delayed-release tablets Naproxen delayed-release tablets 375 mg or 500 mg Twice daily Twice daily During long-term administration, the dose of naproxen may be adjusted up or down depending on the clinical response of the patient. In pediatric patients, doses of 5 mg/kg/day produced plasma levels of naproxen similar to those seen in adults taking 500 mg of naproxen [see Clinical Pharmacology (12) ] . 2.4 Management of Pain, Primary Dysmenorrhea, and Acute Tendonitis and Bursitis Naproxen delayed-release tablets are not recommended for initial treatment of acute pain because absorption of naproxen is delayed compared to other naproxen-containing products [see Clinical Pharmacology (12) ] . 2.5 Acute Gout Naproxen delayed-release tablets are not recommended because of the delay in absorption. Directions • do not take more than directed • the smallest effective dose should be used • drink a full glass of water with each dose Adults and children 12 years and older: • take 1 caplet every 8 to 12 hours while symptoms last • for the first dose you may take 2 caplets within the first hour • do not exceed 2 caplets in any 8- to 12-hour period • do not exceed 3 caplets in a 24-hour period Children under 12 years: • ask a doctor Directions do not take more than directed the smallest effective dose should be used drink a full glass of water with each dose Adults and children 12 years and older take 1 tablet every 8 to 12 hours while symptoms last for the first dose you may take 2 tablets within the first hour do not exceed 2 tablets in any 8- to 12-hour period do not exceed 3 tablets in a 24-hour period Children under 12 years ask a doctor Directions • do not take more than directed • the smallest effective dose should be used • drink a full glass of water with each dose Adults and children 12 years and older • take 1 caplet every 8 to 12 hours while symptoms last • for the first dose you may take 2 caplets within the first hour • do not exceed 2 caplets in any 8- to 12-hour period • do not exceed 3 caplets in a 24-hour period Children under 12 years • ask a doctor Directions do not take more than directed drink a full glass of water with each dose adults and children 12 years and over: take 2 tablets at bedtime do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours if taken with food, this product may take longer to work Directions do not take more than directed the smallest effective dose should be used drink a full glass of water with each dose Adults and children 12 years and older take 1 caplet every 8 to 12 hours while symptoms last for the first dose you may take 2 caplets within the first hour do not exceed 2 caplets in any 8- to 12-hour period do not exceed 3 caplets in a 24-hour period Children under 12 years ask a doctor Directions do not take more than directed the smallest effective dose should be used drink a full glass of water with each dose if taken with food, this product may take longer to work adults and children 12 years and older: take 1 capsule every 8 to 12 hours while symptoms last for the first dose you may take 2 capsules within the first hour do not exceed 2 capsules in any 8- to 12-hour period do not exceed 3 capsules in a 24-hour period children under 12 years: ask a doctor
Warnings: Warnings Allergy alert: Naproxen sodium may cause a severe allergic reaction, especially in people allergic to aspirin. Symptoms may include hives facial swelling asthma (wheezing) shock skin reddening rash blisters If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Stomach bleeding warning: This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product take more or for a longer time than directed. Heart attack and stroke warning: NSAIDs, except aspirin, increase the risk of heart attack, heart failure, and stroke. These can be fatal. The risk is higher if you use more than directed or for longer than directed. Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever/fever reducer right before or after heart surgery Ask a doctor before use if the stomach bleeding warning applies to you you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, or kidney disease you are taking a diuretic you have problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers you have asthma Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are under a doctor’s care for any serious condition taking any other drug When using this product take with food or milk if stomach upset occurs the risk of heart attack or stroke may increase if you use more than directed or for longer than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: feel faint vomit blood have bloody or black stools have stomach pain that does not get better you have symptoms of heart problems or stroke: chest pain trouble breathing weakness in one part or side of body slurred speech leg swelling pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days you have difficulty swallowing it feels like the pill is stuck in your throat redness or swelling is present in the painful area any new symptoms appear If pregnant or breast-feeding, If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. It is especially important not to use naproxen sodium during the last 3 months of pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery. Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Symptoms may include: • hives • facial swelling • asthma (wheezing) • shock • skin reddening • rash • blisters If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. The chance is higher if you • are age 60 or older • have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems • take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug • take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) • have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product • take more or for a longer time than directed Heart attack and stroke warning: NSAIDs, except aspirin, increase the risk of heart attack, heart failure, and stroke. Do not use • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever/fever reducer • right before or after heart surgery Ask a doctor before use if • the stomach bleeding warning applies to you • you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn • you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, kidney disease, asthma, or had a stroke • you are taking a diuretic • you have problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • under a doctor’s care for any serious condition • taking aspirin for heart attack or stroke, because naproxen may decrease this benefit of aspirin • taking any other drug When using this product • take with food or milk if stomach upset occurs Stop use and ask a doctor if • you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: • feel faint • vomit blood • have bloody or black stools • have stomach pain that does not get better • you have symptoms of heart problems or stroke: • chest pain • trouble breathing • weakness in one part or side of body • slurred speech • leg swelling • pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • you have difficulty swallowing • it feels like the pill is stuck in your throat • redness or swelling is present in the painful area • any new symptoms appear If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. It is especially important not to use naproxen sodium at 20 weeks or later in pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). The chance is higher if you: • are age 60 or older • have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems • take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug • take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) • have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product • take more or for a longer time than directed Heart attack and stroke warning: NSAIDs, except aspirin, increase the risk of heart attack, heart failure, and stroke. Symptoms may include: hives facial swelling asthma (wheezing) shock skin reddening rash blisters If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. The chance is higher if you: are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) take more or for a longer time than directed Heart attack and stroke warning: NSAIDs, except aspirin, increase the risk of heart attack, heart failure, and stroke. The risk is higher if you use more than directed or for longer than directed Warnings Allergy alert Naproxen sodium may cause a severe allergic reaction, especially in people allergic to aspirin. Stomach bleeding warning This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you: are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product take more or for a longer time than directed Heart attack and stroke warning NSAIDs, except aspirin, increase the risk of heart attack, heart failure, and stroke. Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever/fever reducer right before or after heart surgery Ask a doctor before use if the stomach bleeding warning applies to you you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, kidney disease, asthma, or had a stroke you are taking a diuretic you have problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are under a doctor's care for any serious condition taking aspirin for heart attack or stroke, because naproxen may decrease this benefit of aspirin taking any other drug When using this product take with food or milk if stomach upset occurs Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: ■ feel faint ■ vomit blood ■ have bloody or black stools ■ have stomach pain that does not get better ■ you have symptoms of heart problems or stroke: ■ chest pain ■ trouble breathing ■ weakness in one part or side of body ■ slurred speech ■ leg swelling ■ pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days ■ fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days ■ you have difficulty swallowing ■ it feels like the pill is stuck in your throat ■ redness or swelling is present in the painful area ■ any new symptoms appear If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-822-1222) The chance is higher if you: are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) take more or for a longer time than directed Heart attack and stroke: NSAIDs, except aspirin, increase the risk of heart attack, heart failure, and stroke. Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever/fever reducer right before or after heart surgery Ask a doctor before use if the stomach bleeding warning applies to you you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, kidney disease,asthma, or had a stroke you are taking a diuretic you have problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are under a doctor’s care for any serious condition taking any other drug When using this product take with food or milk if stomach upset occurs Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: feel faint have bloody or black stools vomit blood have stomach pain that does not get better you have symptoms of heart problems or stroke: chest pain slurred speech leg swelling trouble breathing weakness in one part or side of body pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present in the painful area any new symptoms appear you have difficulty swallowing it feels like the capsule is stuck in your throat If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.(1-800-222-1222).
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Naproxen tablets and naproxen sodium tablets are contraindicated in the following patients: • Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to naproxen or any components of the drug product [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.9 ) ] • History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.8 ) ] • In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ] • Known hypersensitivity to naproxen or any components of the drug product ( 4 ) • History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs ( 4 ) • In the setting of CABG surgery ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Naproxen delayed-release tablets are contraindicated in the following patients: Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to naproxen or any components of the drug product [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7 , 5.9) ]. History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7 , 5.8) ]. In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1) ]. Known hypersensitivity to naproxen or any components of the drug product (4) History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs (4) In the setting of CABG surgery (4)
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See Table 1 for clinically significant drug interactions with naproxen. Table 1: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with naproxen Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: • Naproxen and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. The concomitant use of naproxen and anticoagulants have an increased risk of serious bleeding compared to the use of either drug alone. • Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Case-control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of naproxen tablets or naproxen sodium tablets with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ) ]. Aspirin Clinical Impact: A pharmacodynamic (PD) study has demonstrated an interaction in which lower dose naproxen (220mg/day or 220mg twice daily) interfered with the antiplatelet effect of low-dose immediate-release aspirin, with the interaction most marked during the washout period of naproxen ( see 12.2 Pharmacodynamics) . There is reason to expect that the interaction would be present with prescription doses of naproxen or with enteric-coated low-dose aspirin; however, the peak interference with aspirin function may be later than observed in the PD study due to the longer washout period. Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. Intervention: Because there may be an increased risk of cardiovascular events following discontinuation of naproxen due to the interference with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin during the washout period, for patients taking low-dose aspirin for cardioprotection who require intermittent analgesics, consider use of an NSAID that does not interfere with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin, or non-NSAID analgesics where appropriate. Concomitant use of naproxen tablets or naproxen sodium tablets and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ) ]. Naproxen tablets or naproxen sodium tablets are not substitutes for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact: • NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). • In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Intervention: • During concomitant use of naproxen tablets or naproxen sodium tablets and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. • During concomitant use of naproxen tablets or naproxen sodium tablets and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ]. • When these drugs are administered concomitantly, patients should be adequately hydrated. Assess renal function at the beginning of the concomitant treatment and periodically thereafter. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. This effect has been attributed to the NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of naproxen tablets or naproxen sodium tablets with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ]. Digoxin Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of naproxen with digoxin has been reported to increase the serum concentration and prolong the half-life of digoxin. Intervention: During concomitant use of naproxen tablets or naproxen sodium tablets and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Lithium Clinical Impact: NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance . The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%, and the renal clearance decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of naproxen tablets or naproxen sodium tablets and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction). Intervention: During concomitant use of naproxen tablets or naproxen sodium tablets and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of naproxen tablets or naproxen sodium tablets and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine’s nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of naproxen tablets or naproxen sodium tablets and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of naproxen with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. Intervention: The concomitant use of naproxen with other NSAIDs or salicylates is not recommended. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of naproxen tablets and naproxen sodium tablets and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention: During concomitant use of naproxen tablets and naproxen sodium tablets and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. NSAIDs with short elimination half-lives (e.g., diclofenac, indomethacin) should be avoided for a period of two days before, the day of, and two days following administration of pemetrexed. In the absence of data regarding potential interaction between pemetrexed and NSAIDs with longer half-lives (e.g., meloxicam, nabumetone), patients taking these NSAIDs should interrupt dosing for at least five days before, the day of, and two days following pemetrexed administration. Antacids and Sucralfate Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of some antacids (magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide) and sucralfate can delay the absorption of naproxen. Intervention: Concomitant administration of antacids such as magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide, and sucralfate with naproxen tablets and naproxen sodium tablets is not recommended. Cholestyramine Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of cholestyramine can delay the absorption of naproxen. Intervention: Concomitant administration of cholestyramine with naproxen tablets or naproxen sodium tablets is not recommended. Probenecid Clinical Impact: Probenecid given concurrently increases naproxen anion plasma levels and extends its plasma half-life significantly. Intervention: Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen tablets or naproxen sodium tablets and probenecid should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Other albumin-bound drugs Clinical Impact: Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin-type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin . Intervention: Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen tablets or naproxen sodium tablets and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Bleeding times Clinical Impact: Naproxen may decrease platelet aggregation and prolong bleeding time. Intervention: This effect should be kept in mind when bleeding times are determined. Porter-Silber test Clinical Impact: The administration of naproxen may result in increased urinary values for 17-ketogenic steroids because of an interaction between the drug and/or its metabolites with m-di-nitrobenzene used in this assay. Intervention: Although 17-hydroxy-corticosteroid measurements (Porter-Silber test) do not appear to be artifactually altered, it is suggested that therapy with naproxen be temporarily discontinued 72 hours before adrenal function tests are performed if the Porter-Silber test is to be used. Urinary assays of 5-hydroxy indoleacetic acid (5HIAA) Clinical Impact: Naproxen may interfere with some urinary assays of 5-hydroxy indoleacetic acid (5HIAA). Intervention: This effect should be kept in mind when urinary 5-hydroxy indoleacetic acid is determined. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g. warfarin, aspirin, SSRIs/SNRIs): Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly taking naproxen tablets or naproxen sodium tablets with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. Concomitant use of naproxen tablets or naproxen sodium tablets and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended. ( 7 ) ACE inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARB), or Beta-Blockers: Concomitant use with naproxen tablets or naproxen sodium tablets may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Monitor blood pressure. ( 7 ) ACE Inhibitors and ARBs: Concomitant use with naproxen tablets or naproxen sodium tablets in elderly, volume depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function. ( 7 ) Diuretics: NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. Monitor patients to assure diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects. ( 7 ) Digoxin: Concomitant use with naproxen tablets or naproxen sodium tablets can increase serum concentration and prolong half-life of digoxin. Monitor serum digoxin levels. ( 7 ) Table 1: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with naproxen Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: Naproxen and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of naproxen delayed-release tablets with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . Aspirin Clinical Impact: A pharmacodynamic (PD) study has demonstrated an interaction in which lower dose naproxen (220mg/day or 220mg twice daily) interfered with the antiplatelet effect of low-dose immediate-release aspirin, with the interaction most marked during the washout period of naproxen [see 12.2 Pharmacodynamics ] . In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Concomitant use of naproxen delayed-release tablets and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12) ]. Naproxen delayed-release tablets are not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact: NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Intervention: During concomitant use of naproxen delayed-release tablets and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. During concomitant use of naproxen delayed-release tablets and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. When these drugs are administered concomitantly, patients should be adequately hydrated. Intervention During concomitant use of naproxen delayed-release tablets with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Intervention: During concomitant use of naproxen delayed-release tablets and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Lithium Clinical Impact: NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance. Intervention: During concomitant use of naproxen delayed-release tablets and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of naproxen delayed-release tablets and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of naproxen delayed-release tablets and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine’s nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of naproxen delayed-release tablets and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of naproxen with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of naproxen delayed-release tablets and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention: During concomitant use of naproxen delayed-release tablets and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. Intervention: Concomitant administration of antacids such as magnesium oxide or aluminum hydroxide, and sucralfate with naproxen delayed-release tablets is not recommended. Intervention: Concomitant administration of cholestyramine with naproxen delayed-release tablets is not recommended. Intervention: Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen delayed-release tablets and probenecid should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. Other albumin-bound drugs Clinical Impact: Naproxen is highly bound to plasma albumin; it thus has a theoretical potential for interaction with other albumin-bound drugs such as coumarin-type anticoagulants, sulphonylureas, hydantoins, other NSAIDs, and aspirin. Intervention: Patients simultaneously receiving naproxen delayed-release tablets and a hydantoin, sulphonamide or sulphonylurea should be observed for adjustment of dose if required. warfarin, aspirin, SSRIs/SNRIs): Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly taking naproxen delayed-release tablets with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. Concomitant use of naproxen delayed-release tablets and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended. (7) ACE inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARB), or Beta-Blockers: Concomitant use with naproxen delayed-release tablets may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. (7) ACE Inhibitors and ARBs: Concomitant use with naproxen delayed-release tablets in elderly, volume depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high-risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function. (7) Diuretics: NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. (7) Digoxin: Concomitant use with naproxen delayed-release tablets can increase serum concentration and prolong half-life of digoxin. (7)

=== PROPRANOLOL HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypertension Propranolol hydrochloride tablets are indicated in the management of hypertension. It may be used alone or used in combination with other antihypertensive agents, particularly a thiazide diuretic. Propranolol hydrochloride is not indicated in the management of hypertensive emergencies. Angina Pectoris Due to Coronary Atherosclerosis Propranolol hydrochloride tablets are indicated to decrease angina frequency and increase exercise tolerance in patients with angina pectoris. Atrial Fibrillation Propranolol hydrochloride tablets are indicated to control ventricular rate in patients with atrial fibrillation and a rapid ventricular response. Myocardial Infarction Propranolol is indicated to reduce cardiovascular mortality in patients who have survived the acute phase of myocardial infarction and are clinically stable. Migraine Propranolol is indicated for the prophylaxis of common migraine headache. The efficacy of propranolol in the treatment of a migraine attack that has started has not been established, and propranolol is not indicated for such use. Essential Tremor Propranolol is indicated in the management of familial or hereditary essential tremor. Familial or essential tremor consists of involuntary, rhythmic, oscillatory movements, usually limited to the upper limbs. It is absent at rest, but occurs when the limb is held in a fixed posture or position against gravity and during active movement. Propranolol causes a reduction in the tremor amplitude, but not in the tremor frequency. Propranolol is not indicated for the treatment of tremor associated with Parkinsonism. Hypertrophic Subaortic Stenosis Propranolol improves NYHA functional class in symptomatic patients with hypertrophic subaortic stenosis. Pheochromocytoma Propranolol is indicated as an adjunct to alpha-adrenergic blockade to control blood pressure and reduce symptoms of catecholamine-secreting tumors. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypertension Propranolol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP, are indicated in the management of hypertension. They may be used alone or used in combination with other antihypertensive agents, particularly a thiazide diuretic. Propranolol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP, are not indicated in the management of hypertensive emergencies. Angina Pectoris Due to Coronary Atherosclerosis Propranolol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP, are indicated to decrease angina frequency and increase exercise tolerance in patients with angina pectoris. Migraine Propranolol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP, are indicated for the prophylaxis of common migraine headache. Hypertrophic Subaortic Stenosis Propranolol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP, improve NYHA functional class in symptomatic patients with hypertrophic subaortic stenosis. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypertension Propranolol hydrochloride tablets, USP are indicated in the management of hypertension. Propranolol hydrochloride tablets, USP are not indicated in the management of hypertensive emergencies. Angina Pectoris Due to Coronary Atherosclerosis Propranolol hydrochloride tablets, USP are indicated to decrease angina frequency and increase exercise tolerance in patients with angina pectoris. Atrial Fibrillation Propranolol hydrochloride tablets, USP are indicated to control ventricular rate in patients with atrial fibrillation and a rapid ventricular response. Myocardial Infarction Propranolol hydrochloride tablets, USP are indicated to reduce cardiovascular mortality in patients who have survived the acute phase of myocardial infarction and are clinically stable. Migraine Propranolol hydrochloride tablets, USP are indicated for the prophylaxis of common migraine headache. Essential Tremor Propranolol hydrochloride tablets, USP are indicated in the management of familial or hereditary essential tremor. Propranolol hydrochloride tablets, USP cause a reduction in the tremor amplitude, but not in the tremor frequency. Propranolol hydrochloride tablets, USP are not indicated for the treatment of tremor associated with Parkinsonism. Hypertrophic Subaortic Stenosis Propranolol hydrochloride tablets, USP improve NYHA functional class in symptomatic patients with hypertrophic subaortic stenosis. Pheochromocytoma Propranolol hydrochloride tablets, USP are indicated as an adjunct to alpha-adrenergic blockade to control blood pressure and reduce symptoms of catecholamine-secreting tumors. Hypertension Propranolol hydrochloride tablets, USP are indicated in the management of hypertension. Propranolol hydrochloride causes a reduction in the tremor amplitude, but not in the tremor frequency. Hypertrophic Subaortic Stenosis Propranolol hydrochloride tablets, USP improves NYHA functional class in symptomatic patients with hypertrophic subaortic stenosis.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION General Because of the variable bioavailability of propranolol, the dose should be individualized based on response. Hypertension The usual initial dosage is 40 mg propranolol hydrochloride twice daily, whether used alone or added to a diuretic. Dosage may be increased gradually until adequate blood pressure control is achieved. The usual maintenance dosage is 120 mg/day to 240 mg per day. In some instances a dosage of 640 mg a day may be required. The time needed for full antihypertensive response to a given dosage is variable and may range from a few days to several weeks. While twice-daily dosing is effective and can maintain a reduction in blood pressure throughout the day, some patients, especially when lower doses are used, may experience a modest rise in blood pressure toward the end of the 12-hour dosing interval. This can be evaluated by measuring blood pressure near the end of the dosing interval to determine whether satisfactory control is being maintained throughout the day. If control is not adequate, a larger dose, or 3-times-daily therapy may achieve better control. Angina Pectoris Total daily doses of 80 mg to 320 mg propranolol hydrochloride, when administered orally, twice a day, three times a day, or four times a day, have been shown to increase exercise tolerance and to reduce ischemic changes in the ECG. If treatment is to be discontinued, reduce dosage gradually over a period of several weeks. (See WARNINGS .) Atrial Fibrillation The recommended dose is 10 mg to 30 mg propranolol hydrochloride three or four times daily before meals and at bedtime. Myocardial Infarction In the Beta-Blocker Heart Attack Trial (BHAT), the initial dose was 40 mg three times a day, with titration after 1 month to 60 mg to 80 mg three times a day as tolerated. The recommended daily dosage is 180 mg to 240 mg propranolol hydrochloride per day in divided doses. Although a three times a day regimen was used in the BHAT and a four times a day regimen in the Norwegian Multicenter Trial, there is a reasonable basis for the use of either a three times a day or twice daily regimen (see PHARMACODYNAMICS AND CLINICAL EFFECTS ). The effectiveness and safety of daily dosages greater than 240 mg for prevention of cardiac mortality have not been established. However, higher dosages may be needed to effectively treat coexisting diseases such as angina or hypertension (see above). Migraine The initial dose is 80 mg propranolol hydrochloride daily in divided doses. The usual effective dose range is 160 mg to 240 mg per day. The dosage may be increased gradually to achieve optimum migraine prophylaxis. If a satisfactory response is not obtained within four to six weeks after reaching the maximum dose, propranolol therapy should be discontinued. It may be advisable to withdraw the drug gradually over a period of several weeks. Essential Tremor The initial dosage is 40 mg propranolol hydrochloride twice daily. Optimum reduction of essential tremor is usually achieved with a dose of 120 mg per day. Occasionally, it may be necessary to administer 240 mg to 320 mg per day. Hypertrophic Subaortic Stenosis The usual dosage is 20 mg to 40 mg propranolol hydrochloride three or four times daily before meals and at bedtime. Pheochromocytoma The usual dosage is 60 mg propranolol hydrochloride daily in divided doses for three days prior to surgery as adjunctive therapy to alpha-adrenergic blockade. For the management of inoperable tumors, the usual dosage is 30 mg daily in divided doses as adjunctive therapy to alpha-adrenergic blockade. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION General Propranolol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP, provide propranolol hydrochloride in a sustained-release capsule for administration once daily. If patients are switched from propranolol hydrochloride tablets to Propranolol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP, care should be taken to assure that the desired therapeutic effect is maintained. Propranolol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP, should not be considered a simple mg-for-mg substitute for propranolol hydrochloride tablets. Propranolol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP, have different kinetics and produces lower blood levels. Retitration may be necessary, especially to maintain effectiveness at the end of the 24-hour dosing interval. Hypertension The usual initial dosage is 80 mg Propranolol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP, once daily, whether used alone or added to a diuretic. The dosage may be increased to 120 mg once daily or higher until adequate blood pressure control is achieved. The usual maintenance dosage is 120 to 160 mg once daily. In some instances a dosage of 640 mg may be required. The time needed for full hypertensive response to a given dosage is variable and may range from a few days to several weeks. Angina Pectoris Starting with 80 mg Propranolol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP, once daily, dosage should be gradually increased at three- to seven-day intervals until optimal response is obtained. Although individual patients may respond at any dosage level, the average optimal dosage appears to be 160 mg once daily. In angina pectoris, the value and safety of dosage exceeding 320 mg per day have not been established. If treatment is to be discontinued, reduce dosage gradually over a period of a few weeks (see WARNINGS ). Migraine The initial oral dose is 80 mg Propranolol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP, once daily. The usual effective dose range is 160 to 240 mg once daily. The dosage may be increased gradually to achieve optimal migraine prophylaxis. If a satisfactory response is not obtained within four to six weeks after reaching the maximal dose, Propranolol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP, therapy should be discontinued. It may be advisable to withdraw the drug gradually over a period of several weeks depending on the patient's age, comorbidity, and dose of Propranolol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP. Hypertrophic Subaortic Stenosis The usual dosage is 80 to 160 mg Propranolol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP, once daily. The usual maintenance dosage is 120 mg to 240 mg per day. If control is not adequate, a larger dose, or 3‑times‑daily therapy may achieve better control. Myocardial Infarction In the Beta-Blocker Heart Attack Trial (BHAT), the initial dose was 40 mg t.i.d., with titration after 1 month to 60 mg to 80 mg t.i.d. as tolerated. Although a t.i.d. regimen was used in the BHAT and a q.i.d. regimen in the Norwegian Multicenter Trial, there is a reasonable basis for the use of either a t.i.d. or b.i.d. regimen (see PHARMACODYNAMICS AND CLINICAL EFFECTS ). If a satisfactory response is not obtained within four to six weeks after reaching the maximum dose, propranolol hydrochloride therapy should be discontinued. General Because of the variable bioavailability of propranolol, the dose should be individualized based on response. (See WARNINGS .) Atrial Fibrillation The recommended dose is 10 mg to 30 mg propranolol hydrochloride three or four times daily before meals and at bedtime. While twice-daily dosing is effective and can maintain a reduction in blood pressure throughout the day, some patients, especially when lower doses are used, may experience a modest rise in blood pressure toward the end of the 12 hour dosing interval. If control is not adequate, a larger dose, or 3 times daily therapy may achieve better control. If treatment is to be discontinued, reduce dosage gradually over a period of several weeks (see WARNINGS ).
Warnings: WARNINGS Angina Pectoris There have been reports of exacerbation of angina and, in some cases, myocardial infarction, following abrupt discontinuance of propranolol therapy. Therefore, when discontinuance of propranolol is planned, the dosage should be gradually reduced over at least a few weeks and the patient should be cautioned against interruption or cessation of therapy without the physician’s advice. If propranolol therapy is interrupted and exacerbation of angina occurs, it usually is advisable to reinstitute propranolol therapy and take other measures appropriate for the management of angina pectoris. Since coronary artery disease may be unrecognized, it may be prudent to follow the above advice in patients considered at risk of having occult atherosclerotic heart disease who are given propranolol for other indications. Hypersensitivity and Skin Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions, have been associated with the administration of propranolol (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Cutaneous reactions, including Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, exfoliative dermatitis, erythema multiforme, and urticaria, have been reported with use of propranolol (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation may be a vital component supporting circulatory function in patients with congestive heart failure, and its inhibition by beta blockade may precipitate more severe failure. Although beta blockers should be avoided in overt congestive heart failure, some have been shown to be highly beneficial when used with close follow-up in patients with a history of failure who are well compensated and are receiving additional therapies, including diuretics as needed. Beta-adrenergic blocking agents do not abolish the inotropic action of digitalis on heart muscle. In Patients without a History of Heart Failure, Continued use of beta blockers can, in some cases, lead to cardiac failure. Nonallergic Bronchospasm (e.g., Chronic Bronchitis, Emphysema) In general, patients with bronchospastic lung disease should not receive beta blockers. Propranolol should be administered with caution in this setting since it may provoke a bronchial asthmatic attack by blocking bronchodilation produced by endogenous and exogenous catecholamine stimulation of beta-receptors. Major Surgery Chronically administered beta-blocking therapy should not be routinely withdrawn prior to major surgery, however the impaired ability of the heart to respond to reflex adrenergic stimuli may augment the risks of general anesthesia and surgical procedures. Diabetes and Hypoglycemia Beta-adrenergic blockade may prevent the appearance of certain premonitory signs and symptoms (pulse rate and pressure changes) of acute hypoglycemia, especially in labile insulin-dependent diabetics. In these patients, it may be more difficult to adjust the dosage of insulin. Propranolol therapy, particularly when given to infants and children, diabetic or not, has been associated with hypoglycemia, especially during fasting as in preparation for surgery. Hypoglycemia has been reported in patients taking propranolol after prolonged physical exertion and in patients with renal insufficiency. Thyrotoxicosis Beta-adrenergic blockade may mask certain clinical signs of hyperthyroidism. Therefore, abrupt withdrawal of propranolol may be followed by an exacerbation of symptoms of hyperthyroidism, including thyroid storm. Propranolol may change thyroid-function tests, increasing T 4 and reverse T 3 and decreasing T 3 . Wolff-Parkinson-White Syndrome Beta-adrenergic blockade in patients with Wolf-Parkinson-White Syndrome and tachycardia has been associated with severe bradycardia requiring treatment with a pacemaker. In one case, this result was reported after an initial dose of 5 mg propranolol. Pheochromocytoma Blocking only the peripheral dilator (beta) action of epinephrine with propranolol leaves its constrictor (alpha) action unopposed. In the event of hemorrhage or shock, there is a disadvantage in having both beta and alpha blockade since the combination prevents the increase in heart rate and peripheral vasoconstriction needed to maintain blood pressure. Therefore, when discontinuance of propranolol is planned, the dosage should be gradually reduced over at least a few weeks, and the patient should be cautioned against interruption or cessation of therapy without the physician's advice. If propranolol therapy is interrupted and exacerbation of angina occurs, it usually is advisable to reinstitute propranolol therapy and take other measures appropriate for the management of unstable angina pectoris. Although beta-blockers should be avoided in overt congestive heart failure, some have been shown to be highly beneficial when used with close follow-up in patients with a history of failure who are well compensated and are receiving diuretics as needed. In Patients without a History of Heart Failure , continued use of beta-blockers can, in some cases, lead to cardiac failure. Nonallergic Bronchospasm (e.g., Chronic Bronchitis, Emphysema) In general, patients with bronchospastic lung disease should not receive beta-blockers. Propranolol therapy, particularly when given to infants and children, diabetic or not, has been associated with hypoglycemia especially during fasting as in preparation for surgery. Propranolol may change thyroid-function tests, increasing T 4 and reverse T 3 , and decreasing T 3 . Wolff-Parkinson-White Syndrome Beta-adrenergic blockade in patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome and tachycardia has been associated with severe bradycardia requiring treatment with a pacemaker. Therefore, when discontinuance of propranolol is planned, the dosage should be gradually reduced over at least a few weeks and the patient should be cautioned against interruption or cessation of therapy without the physician's advice. Angina Pectoris There have been reports of exacerbation of angina and, in some cases, myocardial infarction, following abrupt discontinuance of propranolol therapy. Hypersensitivity and Skin Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions, have been associated with the administration of propranolol (see ADVERSE REACTIONS). In Patients without a History of Heart Failure Continued use of beta blockers can, in some cases, lead to cardiac failure. Propranolol may change thyroid function tests, increasing T4 and reverse T3 and decreasing T3.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Propranolol is contraindicated in 1) cardiogenic shock; 2) sinus bradycardia and greater than first degree block; 3) bronchial asthma; and 4) in patients with known hypersensitivity to propranolol hydrochloride. CONTRAINDICATIONS Propranolol is contraindicated in 1) cardiogenic shock; 2) sinus bradycardia and greater than first-degree block; 3) bronchial asthma; and 4) in patients with known hypersensitivity to propranolol hydrochloride.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Caution should be exercised when propranolol is administered with drugs that have an effect on CYP2D6, 1A2, or 2C19 metabolic pathways. Co-administration of such drugs with propranolol may lead to clinically relevant drug interactions and changes on its efficacy and/or toxicity (see Drug Interactions in PHARMACOKINETICS AND DRUG METABOLISM ). Cardiovascular Drugs Antiarrhythmics Propafenone has negative inotropic and beta-blocking properties that can be additive to those of propranolol. Quinidine increases the concentration of propranolol and produces greater degrees of clinical beta-blockade and may cause postural hypotension. Amiodarone is an antiarrhythmic agent with negative chronotropic properties that may be additive to those seen with β-blockers such as propranolol. The clearance of lidocaine is reduced with administration of propranolol. Lidocaine toxicity has been reported following co-administration with propranolol. Caution should be exercised when administering propranolol with drugs that slow A-V nodal conduction, e.g. digitalis, lidocaine and calcium channel blockers. Digitalis Glycosides Both digitalis glycosides and beta-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia. Calcium Channel Blockers Caution should be exercised when patients receiving a beta blocker are administered a calcium-channel-blocking drug with negative inotropic and/or chronotropic effects. Both agents may depress myocardial contractility or atrioventricular conduction. There have been reports of significant bradycardia, heart failure, and cardiovascular collapse with concurrent use of verapamil and beta-blockers. Co-administration of propranolol and diltiazem in patients with cardiac disease has been associated with bradycardia, hypotension, high-degree heart block, and heart failure. ACE Inhibitors When combined with beta-blockers, ACE inhibitors can cause hypotension, particularly in the setting of acute myocardial infarction. The antihypertensive effects of clonidine may be antagonized by beta-blockers. Propranolol should be administered cautiously to patients withdrawing from clonidine. Alpha Blockers Prazosin has been associated with prolongation of first dose hypotension in the presence of beta-blockers. Postural hypotension has been reported in patients taking both beta-blockers and terazosin or doxazosin. Reserpine Patients receiving catecholamine-depleting drugs, such as reserpine, should be closely observed for excessive reduction of resting sympathetic nervous activity, which may result in hypotension, marked bradycardia, vertigo, syncopal attacks, or orthostatic hypotension. Inotropic Agents Patients on long-term therapy with propranolol may experience uncontrolled hypertension if administered epinephrine as a consequence of unopposed alpha-receptor stimulation. Epinephrine is therefore not indicated in the treatment of propranolol overdose (see OVERDOSAGE ). Isoproterenol and Dobutamine Propranolol is a competitive inhibitor of beta-receptor agonists, and its effects can be reversed by administration of such agents, e.g., dobutamine or isoproterenol. Also, propranolol may reduce sensitivity to dobutamine stress echocardiography in patients undergoing evaluation for myocardial ischemia. Non-Cardiovascular Drugs Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) have been reported to blunt the antihypertensive effect of beta-adrenoreceptor blocking agents. Administration of indomethacin with propranolol may reduce the efficacy of propranolol in reducing blood pressure and heart rate. Antidepressants The hypotensive effects of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may be exacerbated when administered with beta-blockers by interfering with the beta blocking activity of propranolol. Anesthetic Agents Methoxyflurane and trichloroethylene may depress myocardial contractility when administered with propranolol. Warfarin Propranolol when administered with warfarin increases the concentration of warfarin. Prothrombin time, therefore, should be monitored. Neuroleptic Drugs Hypotension and cardiac arrest have been reported with the concomitant use of propranolol and haloperidol. Thyroxine Thyroxine may result in a lower than expected T 3 concentration when used concomitantly with propranolol. Alcohol Alcohol, when used concomitantly with propranolol, may increase plasma levels of propranolol. Drug Interactions Caution should be exercised when Propranolol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP, are administered with drugs that have an affect on CYP2D6, 1A2, or 2C19 metabolic pathways. Alcohol when used concomitantly with propranolol, may increase plasma levels of propranolol. Drug Interactions Interactions with Substrates, Inhibitors or Inducers of Cytochrome P-450 Enzymes Because propranolol's metabolism involves multiple pathways in the cytochrome P-450 system (CYP2D6, 1A2, 2C19), co-administration with drugs that are metabolized by, or effect the activity (induction or inhibition) of one or more of these pathways may lead to clinically relevant drug interactions (see Drug Interactions under PRECAUTIONS ). Substrates or Inhibitors of CYP2D6 Blood levels and/or toxicity of propranolol may be increased by co-administration with substrates or inhibitors of CYP2D6, such as amiodarone, cimetidine, delavudin, fluoxetine, paroxetine, quinidine, and ritonavir. No interactions were observed with either ranitidine or lansoprazole. Substrates or Inhibitors of CYP1A2 Blood levels and/or toxicity of propranolol may be increased by co-administration with substrates or inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as imipramine, cimetidine, ciprofloxacin, fluvoxamine, isoniazid, ritonavir, theophylline, zileuton, zolmitriptan, and rizatriptan. Substrates or Inhibitors of CYP2C19 Blood levels and/or toxicity of propranolol may be increased by co-administration with substrates or inhibitors of CYP2C19, such as fluconazole, cimetidine, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, teniposide, and tolbutamide. No interaction was observed with omeprazole. Inducers of Hepatic Drug Metabolism Blood levels of propranolol may be decreased by co-administration with inducers such as rifampin, ethanol, phenytoin, and phenobarbital. Cigarette smoking also induces hepatic metabolism and has been shown to increase up to 77% the clearance of propranolol, resulting in decreased plasma concentrations. Cardiovascular Drugs Antiarrhythmics The AUC of propafenone is increased by more than 200% by co-administration of propranolol. The metabolism of propranolol is reduced by co-administration of quinidine, leading to a two‑three fold increased blood concentration and greater degrees of clinical beta-blockade. The metabolism of lidocaine is inhibited by co-administration of propranolol, resulting in a 25% increase in lidocaine concentrations. Calcium Channel Blockers The mean C max and AUC of propranolol are increased, respectively, by 50% and 30% by co‑administration of nisoldipine and by 80% and 47%, by co‑administration of nicardipine. The mean C max and AUC of nifedipine are increased by 64% and 79%, respectively, by co‑administration of propranolol. Propranolol does not affect the pharmacokinetics of verapamil and norverapamil. Verapamil does not affect the pharmacokinetics of propranolol. Non-Cardiovascular Drugs Migraine Drugs Administration of zolmitriptan or rizatriptan with propranolol resulted in increased concentrations of zolmitriptan (AUC increased by 56% and C max by 37%) or rizatriptan (the AUC and C max were increased by 67% and 75%, respectively). Theophylline Co-administration of theophylline with propranolol decreases theophylline oral clearance by 30% to 52%. Benzodiazepines Propranolol can inhibit the metabolism of diazepam, resulting in increased concentrations of diazepam and its metabolites. Diazepam does not alter the pharmacokinetics of propranolol. The pharmacokinetics of oxazepam, triazolam, lorazepam, and alprazolam are not affected by co-administration of propranolol. Neuroleptic Drugs Co-administration of long-acting propranolol at doses greater than or equal to 160 mg/day resulted in increased thioridazine plasma concentrations ranging from 55% to 369% and increased thioridazine metabolite (mesoridazine) concentrations ranging from 33% to 209%. Co-administration of chlorpromazine with propranolol resulted in a 70% increase in propranolol plasma level. Anti-Ulcer Drugs Co-administration of propranolol with cimetidine, a non-specific CYP450 inhibitor, increased propranolol AUC and C max by 46% and 35%, respectively. Co-administration with aluminum hydroxide gel (1200 mg) may result in a decrease in propranolol concentrations. Co-administration of metoclopramide with the long-acting propranolol did not have a significant effect on propranolol's pharmacokinetics. Lipid Lowering Drugs Co-administration of cholestyramine or colestipol with propranolol resulted in up to 50% decrease in propranolol concentrations. Co-administration of propranolol with lovastatin or pravastatin, decreased 18% to 23% the AUC of both, but did not alter their pharmacodynamics. Propranolol did not have an effect on the pharmacokinetics of fluvastatin. Warfarin Concomitant administration of propranolol and warfarin has been shown to increase warfarin bioavailability and increase prothrombin time. Alcohol Concomitant use of alcohol may increase plasma levels of propranolol. Interactions with Substrates, Inhibitors or Inducers of Cytochrome P-450 Enzymes Because propranolol's metabolism involves multiple pathways in the cytochrome P-450 system (CYP2D6, 1A2, 2C19), co-administration with drugs that are metabolized by, or effect the activity (induction or inhibition) of one or more of these pathways may lead to clinically relevant drug interactions (see Drug Interactions under PRECAUTIONS ). Antiarrhythmics The AUC of propafenone is increased by more than 200% by co-administration of propranolol. Migraine Drugs Administration of zolmitriptan or rizatriptan with propranolol resulted in increased concentrations of zolmitriptan (AUC increased by 56% and C max by 37%) or rizatriptan (the AUC and C max were increased by 67% and 75%, respectively). Lidocaine toxicity has been reported following coadministration with propranolol. Caution should be exercised when administering propranolol with drugs that slow A-V nodal conduction, e.g., digitalis, lidocaine and calcium channel blockers. Antiarrhythmics Propafenone has negative inotropic and beta-blocking properties that can be additive to those of propranolol. Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) have been reported to blunt the antihypertensive effect of beta-adrenoreceptor blocking agents. Caution should be exercised when administering Propranolol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP, with drugs that slow A-V nodal conduction, e.g., lidocaine and calcium channel blockers. Calcium Channel Blockers Caution should be exercised when patients receiving a beta-blocker are administered a calcium-channel-blocking drug with negative inotropic and/or chronotropic effects. Co-administration of propranolol and diltiazem in patients with cardiac disease has been associated with bradycardia, hypotension, high degree heart block, and heart failure. Propranolol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP, should be administered cautiously to patients withdrawing from clonidine. Reserpine Patients receiving catecholamine-depleting drugs, such as reserpine should be closely observed for excessive reduction of resting sympathetic nervous activity, which may result in hypotension, marked bradycardia, vertigo, syncopal attacks, or orthostatic hypotension. Coadministration of such drugs with propranolol may lead to clinically relevant drug interactions and changes on its efficacy and/or toxicity (see Drug Interactions in PHARMACOKINETICS AND DRUG METABOLISM ). Coadministration of propranolol and diltiazem in patients with cardiac disease has been associated with bradycardia, hypotension, high-degree heart block, and heart failure.

=== DIVALPROEX SODIUM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are indicated for: • Acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar disorder, with or without psychotic features ( 1.1 ) • Monotherapy and adjunctive therapy of complex partial seizures and simple and complex absence seizures; adjunctive therapy in patients with multiple seizure types that include absence seizures ( 1.2 ) • Prophylaxis of migraine headaches ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Mania Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are a valproate and are indicated for the treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar disorder, with or without psychotic features. A manic episode is a distinct period of abnormally and persistently elevated, expansive, or irritable mood. Typical symptoms of mania include pressure of speech, motor hyperactivity, reduced need for sleep, flight of ideas, grandiosity, poor judgment, aggressiveness, and possible hostility. A mixed episode is characterized by the criteria for a manic episode in conjunction with those for a major depressive episode (depressed mood, loss of interest or pleasure in nearly all activities). The efficacy of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets is based in part on studies of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets in this indication, and was confirmed in a 3-week trial with patients meeting DSM-IV TR criteria for bipolar I disorder, manic or mixed type, who were hospitalized for acute mania [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . The effectiveness of valproate for long-term use in mania, i.e., more than 3 weeks, has not been demonstrated in controlled clinical trials. Therefore, healthcare providers who elect to use divalproex sodium extended-release tablets for extended periods should continually reevaluate the long-term risk-benefits of the drug for the individual patient. 1.2 Epilepsy Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are indicated as monotherapy and adjunctive therapy in the treatment of adult patients and pediatric patients down to the age of 10 years with complex partial seizures that occur either in isolation or in association with other types of seizures. Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are also indicated for use as sole and adjunctive therapy in the treatment of simple and complex absence seizures in adults and children 10 years of age or older, and adjunctively in adults and children 10 years of age or older with multiple seizure types that include absence seizures. Simple absence is defined as very brief clouding of the sensorium or loss of consciousness accompanied by certain generalized epileptic discharges without other detectable clinical signs. Complex absence is the term used when other signs are also present. 1.3 Migraine Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are indicated for prophylaxis of migraine headaches. There is no evidence that divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are useful in the acute treatment of migraine headaches. 1.4 Important Limitations Because of the risk to the fetus of decreased IQ, neurodevelopmental disorders, neural tube defects, and other major congenital malformations, which may occur very early in pregnancy, valproate should not be used to treat women with epilepsy or bipolar disorder who are pregnant or who plan to become pregnant unless other medications have failed to provide adequate symptom control or are otherwise unacceptable. Valproate should not be administered to a woman of childbearing potential unless other medications have failed to provide adequate symptom control or are otherwise unacceptable [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4) , Use in Specific Populations (8.1) , and Patient Counseling Information (17) ] . For prophylaxis of migraine headaches, divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are contraindicated in women who are pregnant and in women of childbearing potential who are not using effective contraception [see Contraindications (4) ] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets are an anti-epileptic drug indicated for: Treatment of manic episodes associated with bipolar disorder ( 1.1 ) Monotherapy and adjunctive therapy of complex partial seizures and simple and complex absence seizures; adjunctive therapy in patients with multiple seizure types that include absence seizures ( 1.2 ) Prophylaxis of migraine headaches ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Mania Divalproex sodium is a valproate and is indicated for the treatment of the manic episodes associated with bipolar disorder. The efficacy of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets was established in 3-week trials with patients meeting DSM-III-R criteria for bipolar disorder who were hospitalized for acute mania [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . The safety and effectiveness of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets for long-term use in mania, i.e., more than 3 weeks, has not been demonstrated in controlled clinical trials. Therefore, healthcare providers who elect to use divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets for extended periods should continually reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. 1.2 Epilepsy Divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated as monotherapy and adjunctive therapy in the treatment of patients with complex partial seizures that occur either in isolation or in association with other types of seizures. Divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets are also indicated for use as sole and adjunctive therapy in the treatment of simple and complex absence seizures, and adjunctively in patients with multiple seizure types that include absence seizures. 1.3 Migraine Divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated for prophylaxis of migraine headaches. There is no evidence that divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets are useful in the acute treatment of migraine headaches. For prophylaxis of migraine headaches, divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets are contraindicated in women who are pregnant and in women of childbearing potential who are not using effective contraception [see Contraindications (4) ] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Divalproex sodium is an anti-epileptic drug indicated for: Treatment of manic episodes associated with bipolar disorder (1.1) Monotherapy and adjunctive therapy of complex partial seizures and simple and complex absence seizures; adjunctive therapy in patients with multiple seizure types that include absence seizures (1.2) Prophylaxis of migraine headaches (1.3) 1.1 Mania Divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets are a valproate and are indicated for the treatment of the manic episodes associated with bipolar disorder. For prophylaxis of migraine headaches, divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets are contraindicated in women who are pregnant and in women of childbearing potential who are not using effective contraception [see Contraindications (4) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are indicated for: Acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar disorder, with or without psychotic features (1.1) Monotherapy and adjunctive therapy of complex partial seizures and simple and complex absence seizures; adjunctive therapy in patients with multiple seizure types that include absence seizures (1.2) Prophylaxis of migraine headaches (1.3) 1.1 Mania Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are a valproate and are indicated for the treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar disorder, with or without psychotic features. Valproate should not be administered to a woman of childbearing potential unless other medications have failed to provide adequate symptom control or are otherwise unacceptable [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4 ) , Use in Specific Populations (8.1) , and Patient Counseling Information (17) ] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Divalproex sodium delayed-release capsule is an anti-epileptic drug indicated for : Monotherapy and adjunctive therapy of complex partial seizures and simple and complex absence seizures; adjunctive therapy in patients with multiple seizure types that include absence seizures (1) 1.1 Epilepsy Divalproex sodium delayed-release capsules are indicated as monotherapy and adjunctive therapy in the treatment of adult patients and pediatric patients down to the age of 10 years with complex partial seizures that occur either in isolation or in association with other types of seizures. Divalproex sodium delayed-release capsules are also indicated for use as sole and adjunctive therapy in the treatment of simple and complex absence seizures, and adjunctively in patients with multiple seizure types that include absence seizures. 1.2 Important Limitations Because of the risk to the fetus of decreased IQ, neurodevelopmental disorders, neural tube defects, and other major congenital malformations, which may occur very early in pregnancy, valproate should not be used to treat women with epilepsy or bipolar disorder who are pregnant or who plan to become pregnant unless other medications have failed to provide adequate symptom control or are otherwise unacceptable. Valproate should not be administered to a woman of childbearing potential unless other medications have failed to provide adequate symptom control or are otherwise unacceptable [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 ), and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )]. For prophylaxis of migraine headaches, valproate is contraindicated in women who are pregnant and in women of childbearing potential who are not using effective contraception [see Contraindications (4) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are indicated for: Acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar disorder, with or without psychotic features ( 1.1 ) Monotherapy and adjunctive therapy of complex partial seizures and simple and complex absence seizures; adjunctive therapy in patients with multiple seizure types that include absence seizures ( 1.2) Prophylaxis of migraine headaches ( 1.3) 1.1 Mania Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are valproate and are indicated for the treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar disorder, with or without psychotic features. The efficacy of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are based in part on studies of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets in this indication, and was confirmed in a 3-week trial with patients meeting DSM-IV TR criteria for bipolar I disorder, manic or mixed type, who were hospitalized for acute mania [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Valproate should not be administered to a woman of childbearing potential unless other medications have failed to provide adequate symptom control or are otherwise unacceptable [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 ), and Patient Counseling Information (17)] . For prophylaxis of migraine headaches, divalproex sodium extended-release tablet is contraindicated in women who are pregnant and in women of childbearing potential who are not using effective contraception [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Depakote is an anti-epileptic drug indicated for: Treatment of manic episodes associated with bipolar disorder ( 1.1 ) Monotherapy and adjunctive therapy of complex partial seizures and simple and complex absence seizures; adjunctive therapy in patients with multiple seizure types that include absence seizures ( 1.2 ) Prophylaxis of migraine headaches ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Mania Depakote (divalproex sodium) is a valproate and is indicated for the treatment of the manic episodes associated with bipolar disorder. The efficacy of Depakote was established in 3-week trials with patients meeting DSM-III-R criteria for bipolar disorder who were hospitalized for acute mania [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ] . The safety and effectiveness of Depakote for long-term use in mania, i.e., more than 3 weeks, has not been demonstrated in controlled clinical trials. Therefore, healthcare providers who elect to use Depakote for extended periods should continually reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. 1.2 Epilepsy Depakote is indicated as monotherapy and adjunctive therapy in the treatment of patients with complex partial seizures that occur either in isolation or in association with other types of seizures. Depakote is also indicated for use as sole and adjunctive therapy in the treatment of simple and complex absence seizures, and adjunctively in patients with multiple seizure types that include absence seizures. 1.3 Migraine Depakote is indicated for prophylaxis of migraine headaches. There is no evidence that Depakote is useful in the acute treatment of migraine headaches. Valproate should not be administered to a woman of childbearing potential unless other medications have failed to provide adequate symptom control or are otherwise unacceptable [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 ) , and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] . For prophylaxis of migraine headaches, Depakote is contraindicated in women who are pregnant and in women of childbearing potential who are not using effective contraception [see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Divalproex sodium is an anti-epileptic drug indicated for: Treatment of manic episodes associated with bipolar disorder ( 1.1 ) Monotherapy and adjunctive therapy of complex partial seizures and simple and complex absence seizures; adjunctive therapy in patients with multiple seizure types that include absence seizures ( 1.2 ) Prophylaxis of migraine headaches ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Mania Divalproex sodium is a valproate and is indicated for the treatment of the manic episodes associated with bipolar disorder. The efficacy of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets was established in 3-week trials with patients meeting DSM-III-R criteria for bipolar disorder who were hospitalized for acute mania [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Valproate should not be administered to a woman of childbearing potential unless other medications have failed to provide adequate symptom control or are otherwise unacceptable [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3, 5.4), Use in Specific Populations (8.1), and Patient Counseling Information (17)]. For prophylaxis of migraine headaches, divalproex sodium is contraindicated in women who are pregnant and in women of childbearing potential who are not using effective contraception [see Contraindications (4)]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Depakote ER is indicated for: Acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar disorder, with or without psychotic features ( 1.1 ) Monotherapy and adjunctive therapy of complex partial seizures and simple and complex absence seizures; adjunctive therapy in patients with multiple seizure types that include absence seizures ( 1.2 ) Prophylaxis of migraine headaches ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Mania Depakote ER is a valproate and is indicated for the treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar disorder, with or without psychotic features. The efficacy of Depakote ER is based in part on studies of Depakote (divalproex sodium delayed release tablets) in this indication, and was confirmed in a 3-week trial with patients meeting DSM-IV TR criteria for bipolar I disorder, manic or mixed type, who were hospitalized for acute mania [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ] . Therefore, healthcare providers who elect to use Depakote ER for extended periods should continually reevaluate the long-term risk-benefits of the drug for the individual patient. 1.2 Epilepsy Depakote ER is indicated as monotherapy and adjunctive therapy in the treatment of adult patients and pediatric patients down to the age of 10 years with complex partial seizures that occur either in isolation or in association with other types of seizures. Depakote ER is also indicated for use as sole and adjunctive therapy in the treatment of simple and complex absence seizures in adults and children 10 years of age or older, and adjunctively in adults and children 10 years of age or older with multiple seizure types that include absence seizures. 1.3 Migraine Depakote ER is indicated for prophylaxis of migraine headaches. There is no evidence that Depakote ER is useful in the acute treatment of migraine headaches. For prophylaxis of migraine headaches, Depakote ER is contraindicated in women who are pregnant and in women of childbearing potential who are not using effective contraception [see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are an extended-release product intended for once-a-day oral administration. Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets should be swallowed whole and should not be crushed or chewed. • Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are intended for once-a-day oral administration. Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets should be swallowed whole and should not be crushed or chewed ( 2.1 , 2.2 ). • Mania: Initial dose is 25 mg/kg/day, increasing as rapidly as possible to achieve therapeutic response or desired plasma level ( 2.1 ). The maximum recommended dosage is 60 mg/kg/day ( 2.1 , 2.2 ). • Complex Partial Seizures: Start at 10 to 15 mg/kg/day, increasing at 1 week intervals by 5 to 10 mg/kg/day to achieve optimal clinical response; if response is not satisfactory, check valproate plasma level; see full prescribing information for conversion to monotherapy ( 2.2 ). • Absence Seizures: Start at 15 mg/kg/day, increasing at 1 week intervals by 5 to 10 mg/kg/day until seizure control or limiting side effects ( 2.2 ). • Migraine: The recommended starting dose is 500 mg/day for 1 week, thereafter increasing to 1,000 mg/day ( 2.3 ). 2.1 Mania Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are administered orally. The recommended initial dose is 25 mg/kg/day given once daily. The dose should be increased as rapidly as possible to achieve the lowest therapeutic dose which produces the desired clinical effect or the desired range of plasma concentrations. In a placebo-controlled clinical trial of acute mania or mixed type, patients were dosed to a clinical response with a trough plasma concentration between 85 and 125 mcg/mL. The maximum recommended dosage is 60 mg/kg/day. There is no body of evidence available from controlled trials to guide a clinician in the longer term management of a patient who improves during divalproex sodium extended-release tablets treatment of an acute manic episode. While it is generally agreed that pharmacological treatment beyond an acute response in mania is desirable, both for maintenance of the initial response and for prevention of new manic episodes, there are no data to support the benefits of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets in such longer-term treatment (i.e., beyond 3 weeks). 2.2 Epilepsy Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are administered orally, and must be swallowed whole. As divalproex sodium extended-release tablets dosage is titrated upward, concentrations of clonazepam, diazepam, ethosuximide, lamotrigine, tolbutamide, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and/or phenytoin may be affected [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ]. Complex Partial Seizures For adults and children 10 years of age or older. Monotherapy (Initial Therapy) Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets have not been systematically studied as initial therapy. Patients should initiate therapy at 10 to 15 mg/kg/day. The dosage should be increased by 5 to 10 mg/kg/week to achieve optimal clinical response. Ordinarily, optimal clinical response is achieved at daily doses below 60 mg/kg/day. If satisfactory clinical response has not been achieved, plasma levels should be measured to determine whether or not they are in the usually accepted therapeutic range (50 to 100 mcg/mL). No recommendation regarding the safety of valproate for use at doses above 60 mg/kg/day can be made. The probability of thrombocytopenia increases significantly at total trough valproate plasma concentrations above 110 mcg/mL in females and 135 mcg/mL in males. The benefit of improved seizure control with higher doses should be weighed against the possibility of a greater incidence of adverse reactions. Conversion to Monotherapy Patients should initiate therapy at 10 to 15 mg/kg/day. If satisfactory clinical response has not been achieved, plasma levels should be measured to determine whether or not they are in the usually accepted therapeutic range (50 - 100 mcg/mL). Concomitant antiepilepsy drug (AED) dosage can ordinarily be reduced by approximately 25% every 2 weeks. This reduction may be started at initiation of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets therapy, or delayed by 1 to 2 weeks if there is a concern that seizures are likely to occur with a reduction. The speed and duration of withdrawal of the concomitant AED can be highly variable, and patients should be monitored closely during this period for increased seizure frequency. Adjunctive Therapy Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets may be added to the patient's regimen at a dosage of 10 to 15 mg/kg/day. The dosage may be increased by 5 to 10 mg/kg/week to achieve optimal clinical response. In a study of adjunctive therapy for complex partial seizures in which patients were receiving either carbamazepine or phenytoin in addition to valproate, no adjustment of carbamazepine or phenytoin dosage was needed [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. However, since valproate may interact with these or other concurrently administered AEDs as well as other drugs, periodic plasma concentration determinations of concomitant AEDs are recommended during the early course of therapy [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Simple and Complex Absence Seizures The recommended initial dose is 15 mg/kg/day, increasing at one week intervals by 5 to 10 mg/kg/day until seizures are controlled or side effects preclude further increases. A good correlation has not been established between daily dose, serum concentrations, and therapeutic effect. However, therapeutic valproate serum concentration for most patients with absence seizures is considered to range from 50 to 100 mcg/mL. Some patients may be controlled with lower or higher serum concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. As divalproex sodium extended-release tablets dosage is titrated upward, blood concentrations of phenobarbital and/or phenytoin may be affected [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ] . Antiepilepsy drugs should not be abruptly discontinued in patients in whom the drug is administered to prevent major seizures because of the strong possibility of precipitating status epilepticus with attendant hypoxia and threat to life. 2.3 Migraine Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are indicated for prophylaxis of migraine headaches in adults. The recommended starting dose is 500 mg once daily for 1 week, thereafter increasing to 1,000 mg once daily. Although doses other than 1,000 mg once daily of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets have not been evaluated in patients with migraine, the effective dose range of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets in these patients is 500-1,000 mg/day. As with other valproate products, doses of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets should be individualized and dose adjustment may be necessary. If a patient requires smaller dose adjustments than that available with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets, divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets should be used instead. 2.4 Conversion from Divalproex Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets to Divalproex Sodium Extended-Release Tablets In adult patients and pediatric patients 10 years of age or older with epilepsy previously receiving divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets, divalproex sodium extended-release tablets should be administered once-daily using a dose 8 to 20% higher than the total daily dose of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets (Table 1). For patients whose divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets total daily dose cannot be directly converted to divalproex sodium extended-release tablets, consideration may be given at the clinician’s discretion to increase the patient’s divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets total daily dose to the next higher dosage before converting to the appropriate total daily dose of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets. Table 1. Dose Conversion Divalproex Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets Divalproex Sodium Extended-Release Tablets Total Daily Dose (mg) (mg) 500 These total daily doses of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets cannot be directly converted to an 8 to 20% higher total daily dose of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets because the required dosing strengths of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are not available. Consideration may be given at the clinician’s discretion to increase the patient’s divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets total daily dose to the next higher dosage before converting to the appropriate total daily dose of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets. - 625 750 750 - 875 1,000 1,000 -1,125 1,250 1,250-1,375 1,500 1,500-1,625 1,750 1,750 2,000 1,875-2,000 2,250 2,125-2,250 2,500 2,375 2,750 2,500-2,750 3,000 2,875 3,250 3,000-3,125 3,500 There is insufficient data to allow a conversion factor recommendation for patients with divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets doses above 3,125 mg/day. Plasma valproate C min concentrations for divalproex sodium extended-release tablets on average are equivalent to divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets, but may vary across patients after conversion. If satisfactory clinical response has not been achieved, plasma levels should be measured to determine whether or not they are in the usually accepted therapeutic range (50 to 100 mcg/mL) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . 2.5 General Dosing Advice Dosing in Elderly Patients Due to a decrease in unbound clearance of valproate and possibly a greater sensitivity to somnolence in the elderly, the starting dose should be reduced in these patients. Starting doses in the elderly lower than 250 mg can only be achieved by the use of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets. Dosage should be increased more slowly and with regular monitoring for fluid and nutritional intake, dehydration, somnolence, and other adverse reactions. Dose reductions or discontinuation of valproate should be considered in patients with decreased food or fluid intake and in patients with excessive somnolence. The ultimate therapeutic dose should be achieved on the basis of both tolerability and clinical response [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16) , Use in Specific Populations (8.5) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Dose-Related Adverse Reactions The frequency of adverse effects (particularly elevated liver enzymes and thrombocytopenia) may be dose-related. The probability of thrombocytopenia appears to increase significantly at total valproate concentrations of ≥ 110 mcg/mL (females) or ≥ 135 mcg/mL (males) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . The benefit of improved therapeutic effect with higher doses should be weighed against the possibility of a greater incidence of adverse reactions. G.I. Irritation Patients who experience G.I. irritation may benefit from administration of the drug with food or by slowly building up the dose from an initial low level. Compliance Patients should be informed to take divalproex sodium extended-release tablets every day as prescribed. If a dose is missed it should be taken as soon as possible, unless it is almost time for the next dose. If a dose is skipped, the patient should not double the next dose. 2.6 Dosing in Patients Taking Rufinamide Patients stabilized on rufinamide before being prescribed valproate should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to a clinically effective dose [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets are intended for oral administration. Divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets should be swallowed whole and should not be crushed or chewed. Patients should be informed to take divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets every day as prescribed. Divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets are administered orally in divided doses. Divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets should be swallowed whole and should not be crushed or chewed ( 2.1 , 2.2 ). Mania: Initial dose is 750 mg daily, increasing as rapidly as possible to achieve therapeutic response or desired plasma level ( 2.1 ). Complex Partial Seizures: Start at 10 to 15 mg/kg/day, increasing at 1 week intervals by 5 to 10 mg/kg/day to achieve optimal clinical response; if response is not satisfactory, check valproate plasma level; see full prescribing information for conversion to monotherapy ( 2.2 ). Absence Seizures: Start at 15 mg/kg/day, increasing at 1 week intervals by 5 to 10 mg/kg/day until seizure control or limiting side effects ( 2.2 ). Migraine: The recommended starting dose is 250 mg twice daily, thereafter increasing to a maximum of 1,000 mg/day as needed ( 2.3 ). 2.1 Mania Divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets are administered orally. The recommended initial dose is 750 mg daily in divided doses. In placebo-controlled clinical trials of acute mania, patients were dosed to a clinical response with a trough plasma concentration between 50 and 125 mcg/mL. Maximum concentrations were generally achieved within 14 days. There is no body of evidence available from controlled trials to guide a clinician in the longer term management of a patient who improves during divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets treatment of an acute manic episode. While it is generally agreed that pharmacological treatment beyond an acute response in mania is desirable, both for maintenance of the initial response and for prevention of new manic episodes, there are no data to support the benefits of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets in such longer-term treatment. Although there are no efficacy data that specifically address longer-term antimanic treatment with divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets, the safety of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets in long-term use is supported by data from record reviews involving approximately 360 patients treated with divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets for greater than 3 months. 2.2 Epilepsy Divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets are administered orally. Divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated as monotherapy and adjunctive therapy in complex partial seizures in adults and pediatric patients down to the age of 10 years, and in simple and complex absence seizures. As the divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets dosage is titrated upward, concentrations of clonazepam, diazepam, ethosuximide, lamotrigine, tolbutamide, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and/or phenytoin may be affected [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ] . Monotherapy (Initial Therapy) Divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets have not been systematically studied as initial therapy. This reduction may be started at initiation of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets therapy, or delayed by 1 to 2 weeks if there is a concern that seizures are likely to occur with a reduction. Adjunctive Therapy Divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets may be added to the patient's regimen at a dosage of 10 to 15 mg/kg/day. If the total daily dose exceeds 250 mg, it should be given in divided doses. In a study of adjunctive therapy for complex partial seizures in which patients were receiving either carbamazepine or phenytoin in addition to valproate, no adjustment of carbamazepine or phenytoin dosage was needed [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . However, therapeutic valproate serum concentrations for most patients with absence seizures is considered to range from 50 to 100 mcg/mL. Some patients may be controlled with lower or higher serum concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . As the divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets dosage is titrated upward, blood concentrations of phenobarbital and/or phenytoin may be affected [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ] . In epileptic patients previously receiving valproic acid therapy, divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets should be initiated at the same daily dose and dosing schedule. After the patient is stabilized on divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets, a dosing schedule of two or three times a day may be elected in selected patients. 2.3 Migraine Divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated for prophylaxis of migraine headaches in adults. Divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets are administered orally. The recommended starting dose is 250 mg twice daily. Some patients may benefit from doses up to 1,000 mg/day. In the clinical trials, there was no evidence that higher doses led to greater efficacy. 2.4 General Dosing Advice Dosing in Elderly Patients Due to a decrease in unbound clearance of valproate and possibly a greater sensitivity to somnolence in the elderly, the starting dose should be reduced in these patients. The ultimate therapeutic dose should be achieved on the basis of both tolerability and clinical response [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) , Use in Specific Populations (8.5) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.5 Dosing in Patients Taking Rufinamide Patients stabilized on rufinamide before being prescribed valproate should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to a clinically effective dose [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ] . Divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets should be swallowed whole and should not be crushed or chewed (2.1, 2.2) . Mania: Initial dose is 750 mg daily, increasing as rapidly as possible to achieve therapeutic response or desired plasma level (2.1) . The maximum recommended dosage is 60 mg/kg/day (2.1, 2.2) . Complex Partial Seizures: Start at 10 to 15 mg/kg/day, increasing at 1 week intervals by 5 to 10 mg/kg/day to achieve optimal clinical response; if response is not satisfactory, check valproate plasma level; see full prescribing information for conversion to monotherapy (2.2) . Absence Seizures: Start at 15 mg/kg/day, increasing at 1 week intervals by 5 to 10 mg/kg/day until seizure control or limiting side effects (2.2) . Migraine: The recommended starting dose is 250 mg twice daily, thereafter increasing to a maximum of 1,000 mg/day as needed (2.3) . The probability of thrombocytopenia appears to increase significantly at total valproate concentrations of ≥ 110 mcg/mL (females) or ≥ 135 mcg/mL (males) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] . 2.5 Dosing in Patients Taking Rufinamide Patients stabilized on rufinamide before being prescribed valproate should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to a clinically effective dose [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ]. Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are intended for once-a-day oral administration. Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets should be swallowed whole and should not be crushed or chewed (2.1 , 2.2) . Mania: Initial dose is 25 mg/kg/day, increasing as rapidly as possible to achieve therapeutic response or desired plasma level (2.1) . The maximum recommended dosage is 60 mg/kg/day (2.1 , 2.2) . Migraine: The recommended starting dose is 500 mg/day for 1 week, thereafter increasing to 1,000 mg/day (2.3) . As divalproex sodium extended-release tablets dosage is titrated upward, concentrations of clonazepam, diazepam, ethosuximide, lamotrigine, tolbutamide, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and/or phenytoin may be affected [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ] . Although doses other than 1,000 mg once daily of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets have not been evaluated in patients with migraine, the effective dose range of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets in these patients is 500 to 1,000 mg/day. Dose Conversion * These total daily doses of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets cannot be directly converted to an 8 to 20% higher total daily dose of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets because the required dosing strengths of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are not available. Consideration may be given at the clinician's discretion to increase the patient’s divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets total daily dose to the next higher dosage before converting to the appropriate total daily dose of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets. Divalproex Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets Divalproex Sodium Extended-Release Tablets Total Daily Dose (mg) (mg) 500* to 625 750 750* to 875 1,000 1,000* to 1,125 1,250 1,250 to 1,375 1,500 1,500 to 1,625 1,750 1,750 2,000 1,875 to 2,000 2,250 2,125 to 2,250 2,500 2,375 2,750 2,500 to 2,750 3,000 2,875 3,250 3,000 to 3,125 3,500 There is insufficient data to allow a conversion factor recommendation for patients with divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets doses above 3,125 mg/day. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Divalproex sodium delayed-release capsules may be swallowed whole or the contents may be sprinkled on soft food. The drug/food mixture should be swallowed immediately (avoid chewing) ( 2.2 ) • Safety of doses above 60 mg/kg/day is not established ( 2.1 , 2.2 ) • Complex Partial Seizures: Start at 10 to 15 mg/kg/day, increasing at 1 week intervals by 5 to 10 mg/kg/day to achieve optimal clinical response; if response is not satisfactory, check valproate plasma level; see full prescribing information for conversion to monotherapy ( 2.1 ) • Absence Seizures: Start at 15 mg/kg/day, increasing at 1 week intervals by 5 to 10 mg/kg/day until seizure control or limiting side effects (2.1) 2.1 Epilepsy Divalproex sodium delayed-release capsules are administered orally. As divalproex sodium delayed-release capsules dosage is titrated upward, concentrations of clonazepam, diazepam, ethosuximide, lamotrigine, tolbutamide, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and/or phenytoin may be affected [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 ) ]. Monotherapy (Initial Therapy) Divalproex sodium delayed-release capsules has not been systematically studied as initial therapy. This reduction may be started at initiation of divalproex sodium delayed-release capsules therapy, or delayed by 1 to 2 weeks if there is a concern that seizures are likely to occur with a reduction. Adjunctive Therapy Divalproex sodium delayed-release capsules may be added to the patient's regimen at a dosage of 10 to 15 mg/kg/day. In a study of adjunctive therapy for complex partial seizures in which patients were receiving either carbamazepine or phenytoin in addition to valproate, no adjustment of carbamazepine or phenytoin dosage was needed [see Clinical Studies (14) ]. However, since valproate may interact with these or other concurrently administered AEDs as well as other drugs, periodic plasma concentration determinations of concomitant AEDs are recommended during the early course of therapy [see Drug Interactions (7)] . However, therapeutic valproate serum concentrations for most patients with absence seizures are considered to range from 50 to 100 mcg/mL. Some patients may be controlled with lower or higher serum concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. As the divalproex sodium delayed-release capsules dosage is titrated upward, blood concentrations of phenobarbital and/or phenytoin may be affected [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 ) ]. In epileptic patients previously receiving valproic acid therapy, divalproex sodium delayed-release capsules should be initiated at the same daily dose and dosing schedule. After the patient is stabilized on divalproex sodium delayed-release capsules, a dosing schedule of two or three times a day may be elected in selected patients. 2.2 General Dosing Advice Dosing in Elderly Patients Due to a decrease in unbound clearance of valproate and possibly a greater sensitivity to somnolence in the elderly, the starting dose should be reduced in these patients. The ultimate therapeutic dose should be achieved on the basis of both tolerability and clinical response [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) , Use in Specific Populations (8.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. The probability of thrombocytopenia appears to increase significantly at total valproate concentrations of ≥ 110 mcg/mL (females) or ≥ 135 mcg/mL (males) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8 )]. Administration of Divalproex Sodium Delayed-release Capsules Divalproex sodium delayed-release capsules may be swallowed whole or may be administered by carefully opening the capsule and sprinkling the entire contents on a small amount (teaspoonful) of soft food such as applesauce or pudding. The drug/food mixture should be swallowed immediately (avoid chewing) and not stored for future use. Each capsule is oversized to allow ease of opening. 2.3 Dosing in Patients Taking Rufinamide Patients stabilized on rufinamide before being prescribed valproate should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to a clinically effective dose [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are intended for once-a-day oral administration. Mania: Initial dose is 25 mg/kg/day, increasing as rapidly as possible to achieve therapeutic response or desired plasma level (2.1). Absence Seizures: Start at 15 mg/kg/day, increasing at 1 week intervals by 5 to 10 mg/kg/day until seizure control or limiting side effects (2.2). Migraine: The recommended starting dose is 500 mg/day for 1 week, thereafter increasing to 1,000 mg/day ( 2.3 ). Divalproex sodium extended-release tablet is an extended-release product intended for once-a-day oral administration. There is no body of evidence available from controlled trials to guide a clinician in the longer term management of a patient who improves during divalproex sodium extended-release tablet treatment of an acute manic episode. As divalproex sodium extended-release tablets dosage is titrated upward, concentrations of clonazepam, diazepam, ethosuximide, lamotrigine, tolbutamide, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and/or phenytoin may be affected [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )] . Monotherapy (Initial Therapy): Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets have not been systematically studied as initial therapy. Conversion to Monotherapy: Patients should initiate therapy at 10 to 15 mg/kg/day. Adjunctive Therapy: Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets may be added to the patient's regimen at a dosage of 10 to 15 mg/kg/day. In a study of adjunctive therapy for complex partial seizures in which patients were receiving either carbamazepine or phenytoin in addition to valproate, no adjustment of carbamazepine or phenytoin dosage was needed [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . However, since valproate may interact with these or other concurrently administered AEDs as well as other drugs, periodic plasma concentration determinations of concomitant AEDs are recommended during the early course of therapy [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . Some patients may be controlled with lower or higher serum concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . As divalproex sodium extended-release tablets dosage is titrated upward, blood concentrations of phenobarbital and/or phenytoin may be affected [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )] . For patients whose divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets total daily dose cannot be directly converted to divalproex sodium extended-release tablets, consideration may be given at the clinician's discretion to increase the patient's divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets total daily dose to the next higher dosage before converting to the appropriate total daily dose of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets. Consideration may be given at the clinician's discretion to increase the patient's divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets total daily dose to the next higher dosage before converting to the appropriate total daily dose of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets. to 625 750 750 to 875 1,000 1,000 to 1,125 1,250 1,250 to 1,375 1,500 1,500 to 1,625 1,750 1,750 2,000 1,875 to 2,000 2,250 2,125 to 2,250 2,500 2,375 2,750 2,500 to 2,750 3,000 2,875 3,250 3,000 to 3,125 3,500 There is insufficient data to allow a conversion factor recommendation for patients with divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets doses above 3,125 mg/day. If satisfactory clinical response has not been achieved, plasma levels should be measured to determine whether or not they are in the usually accepted therapeutic range (50 to 100 mcg/mL) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . The ultimate therapeutic dose should be achieved on the basis of both tolerability and clinical response [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . The probability of thrombocytopenia appears to increase significantly at total valproate concentrations of ≥ 110 mcg/mL (females) or ≥ 135 mcg/mL (males) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] . G. I. 2.6 Dosing in Patients Taking Rufinamide Patients stabilized on rufinamide before being prescribed valproate should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to a clinically effective dose [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 ) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Depakote tablets are intended for oral administration. Depakote tablets should be swallowed whole and should not be crushed or chewed. Patients should be informed to take Depakote every day as prescribed. Depakote is administered orally in divided doses. Depakote should be swallowed whole and should not be crushed or chewed ( 2.1 , 2.2 ). 2.1 Mania Depakote tablets are administered orally. There is no body of evidence available from controlled trials to guide a clinician in the longer term management of a patient who improves during Depakote treatment of an acute manic episode. While it is generally agreed that pharmacological treatment beyond an acute response in mania is desirable, both for maintenance of the initial response and for prevention of new manic episodes, there are no data to support the benefits of Depakote in such longer-term treatment. Although there are no efficacy data that specifically address longer-term antimanic treatment with Depakote, the safety of Depakote in long-term use is supported by data from record reviews involving approximately 360 patients treated with Depakote for greater than 3 months. 2.2 Epilepsy Depakote tablets are administered orally. Depakote is indicated as monotherapy and adjunctive therapy in complex partial seizures in adults and pediatric patients down to the age of 10 years, and in simple and complex absence seizures. As the Depakote dosage is titrated upward, concentrations of clonazepam, diazepam, ethosuximide, lamotrigine, tolbutamide, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and/or phenytoin may be affected [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 ) ] . Monotherapy (Initial Therapy) Depakote has not been systematically studied as initial therapy. If satisfactory clinical response has not been achieved, plasma levels should be measured to determine whether or not they are in the usually accepted therapeutic range (50-100 mcg/mL). This reduction may be started at initiation of Depakote therapy, or delayed by 1 to 2 weeks if there is a concern that seizures are likely to occur with a reduction. Adjunctive Therapy Depakote may be added to the patient's regimen at a dosage of 10 to 15 mg/kg/day. In a study of adjunctive therapy for complex partial seizures in which patients were receiving either carbamazepine or phenytoin in addition to valproate, no adjustment of carbamazepine or phenytoin dosage was needed [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ] . However, since valproate may interact with these or other concurrently administered AEDs as well as other drugs, periodic plasma concentration determinations of concomitant AEDs are recommended during the early course of therapy [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] . Some patients may be controlled with lower or higher serum concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . As the Depakote dosage is titrated upward, blood concentrations of phenobarbital and/or phenytoin may be affected [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 ) ] . In epileptic patients previously receiving valproic acid therapy, Depakote tablets should be initiated at the same daily dose and dosing schedule. After the patient is stabilized on Depakote tablets, a dosing schedule of two or three times a day may be elected in selected patients. 2.3 Migraine Depakote is indicated for prophylaxis of migraine headaches in adults. Depakote tablets are administered orally. The ultimate therapeutic dose should be achieved on the basis of both tolerability and clinical response [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.16 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . The probability of thrombocytopenia appears to increase significantly at total valproate concentrations of ≥ 110 mcg/mL (females) or ≥ 135 mcg/mL (males) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 ) ] . 2.5 Dosing in Patients Taking Rufinamide Patients stabilized on rufinamide before being prescribed valproate should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to a clinically effective dose [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )] . As the divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets dosage is titrated upward, concentrations of clonazepam, diazepam, ethosuximide, lamotrigine, tolbutamide, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and/or phenytoin may be affected [see Drug Interactions (7.2)] . In a study of adjunctive therapy for complex partial seizures in which patients were receiving either carbamazepine or phenytoin in addition to valproate, no adjustment of carbamazepine or phenytoin dosage was needed [see Clinical Studies (14.2)] . Some patients may be controlled with lower or higher serum concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . As the divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets dosage is titrated upward, blood concentrations of phenobarbital and/or phenytoin may be affected [see Drug Interactions (7.2)] . The ultimate therapeutic dose should be achieved on the basis of both tolerability and clinical response [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14), Use in Specific Populations (8.5), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2.5 Dosing in Patients Taking Rufinamide Patients stabilized on rufinamide before being prescribed valproate should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to a clinically effective dose [see Drug Interactions (7.2)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Depakote ER is an extended-release product intended for once-a-day oral administration. Depakote ER tablets should be swallowed whole and should not be crushed or chewed. Depakote ER is intended for once-a-day oral administration. Depakote ER should be swallowed whole and should not be crushed or chewed ( 2.1 , 2.2 ). Mania: Initial dose is 25 mg/kg/day, increasing as rapidly as possible to achieve therapeutic response or desired plasma level ( 2.1 ). 2.1 Mania Depakote ER tablets are administered orally. There is no body of evidence available from controlled trials to guide a clinician in the longer term management of a patient who improves during Depakote ER treatment of an acute manic episode. While it is generally agreed that pharmacological treatment beyond an acute response in mania is desirable, both for maintenance of the initial response and for prevention of new manic episodes, there are no data to support the benefits of Depakote ER in such longer-term treatment (i.e., beyond 3 weeks). 2.2 Epilepsy Depakote ER (divalproex sodium) extended-release tablets are administered orally, and must be swallowed whole. As Depakote ER dosage is titrated upward, concentrations of clonazepam, diazepam, ethosuximide, lamotrigine, tolbutamide, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and/or phenytoin may be affected [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 ) ] . Monotherapy (Initial Therapy) Depakote ER has not been systematically studied as initial therapy. This reduction may be started at initiation of Depakote ER therapy, or delayed by 1 to 2 weeks if there is a concern that seizures are likely to occur with a reduction. Adjunctive Therapy Depakote ER may be added to the patient's regimen at a dosage of 10 to 15 mg/kg/day. As Depakote ER dosage is titrated upward, blood concentrations of phenobarbital and/or phenytoin may be affected [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 ) ] . 2.3 Migraine Depakote ER is indicated for prophylaxis of migraine headaches in adults. Although doses other than 1,000 mg once daily of Depakote ER have not been evaluated in patients with migraine, the effective dose range of Depakote (divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets) in these patients is 500-1,000 mg/day. As with other valproate products, doses of Depakote ER should be individualized and dose adjustment may be necessary. If a patient requires smaller dose adjustments than that available with Depakote ER, Depakote should be used instead. 2.4 Conversion from Depakote to Depakote ER In adult patients and pediatric patients 10 years of age or older with epilepsy previously receiving Depakote, Depakote ER should be administered once-daily using a dose 8 to 20% higher than the total daily dose of Depakote ( Table 1 ). For patients whose Depakote total daily dose cannot be directly converted to Depakote ER, consideration may be given at the clinician’s discretion to increase the patient’s Depakote total daily dose to the next higher dosage before converting to the appropriate total daily dose of Depakote ER. Dose Conversion Depakote Depakote ER Total Daily Dose (mg) (mg) 500* - 625 750 750* - 875 1,000 1,000*-1,125 1,250 1,250-1,375 1,500 1,500-1,625 1,750 1,750 2,000 1,875-2,000 2,250 2,125-2,250 2,500 2,375 2,750 2,500-2,750 3,000 2,875 3,250 3,000-3,125 3,500 * These total daily doses of Depakote cannot be directly converted to an 8 to 20% higher total daily dose of Depakote ER because the required dosing strengths of Depakote ER are not available. Consideration may be given at the clinician's discretion to increase the patient's Depakote total daily dose to the next higher dosage before converting to the appropriate total daily dose of Depakote ER. There is insufficient data to allow a conversion factor recommendation for patients with DEPAKOTE doses above 3,125 mg/day. Plasma valproate C min concentrations for DEPAKOTE ER on average are equivalent to DEPAKOTE, but may vary across patients after conversion. If satisfactory clinical response has not been achieved, plasma levels should be measured to determine whether or not they are in the usually accepted therapeutic range (50 to 100 mcg/mL) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) ] . Starting doses in the elderly lower than 250 mg can only be achieved by the use of Depakote. Compliance Patients should be informed to take Depakote ER every day as prescribed. Dose Conversion Divalproex Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets Total Daily Dose (mg) Divalproex Sodium Extended-Release Tablets (mg) 500 These total daily doses of divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets cannot be directly converted to an 8 to 20% higher total daily dose of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets because the required dosing strengths of divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are not available.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients: • with hepatic disease or significant hepatic dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . • known to have mitochondrial disorders caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA polymerase γ (POLG; e.g., Alpers-Huttenlocher Syndrome) and children under two years of age who are suspected of having a POLG-related disorder [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . • with known hypersensitivity to divalproex sodium, sodium valproate, or valproic acid. Reactions have included multiorgan hypersensitivity, serious dermatologic reactions, and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12 , 5.13 , 5.14) ] . • with known urea cycle disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . • being treated for prophylaxis of migraine headaches: who are pregnant or in women of childbearing potential who are not using effective contraception [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ] . • Hepatic disease or significant hepatic dysfunction ( 4 , 5.1 ) • Known mitochondrial disorders caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA polymerase γ (POLG) ( 4 , 5.1 ) • Suspected POLG-related disorder in children under two years of age ( 4 , 5.1 ) • Known hypersensitivity to the drug ( 4 , 5.12 ) • Urea cycle disorders ( 4 , 5.6 ) • Prophylaxis of migraine headaches: Pregnant women, women of childbearing potential not using effective contraception ( 4 , 8.1 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets should not be administered to patients with hepatic disease or significant hepatic dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets are contraindicated in patients known to have mitochondrial disorders caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA polymerase γ (POLG; e.g., Alpers-Huttenlocher Syndrome) and children under two years of age who are suspected of having a POLG-related disorder [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to the drug [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . Divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known urea cycle disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . For use in prophylaxis of migraine headaches: Divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets are contraindicated in women who are pregnant and in women of childbearing potential who are not using effective contraception [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ] . Hepatic disease or significant hepatic dysfunction ( 4 , 5.1 ) Known mitochondrial disorders caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA polymerase γ (POLG) ( 4 , 5.1 ) Suspected POLG-related disorder in children under two years of age ( 4 , 5.1 ) Known hypersensitivity to the drug ( 4 , 5.12 ) Urea cycle disorders ( 4 , 5.6 ) Prophylaxis of migraine headaches: Pregnant women, women of childbearing potential not using effective contraception ( 4 , 8.1 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets are contraindicated in patients: with hepatic disease or significant hepatic dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . known to have mitochondrial disorders caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA polymerase γ (POLG; e.g., Alpers-Huttenlocher Syndrome) and children under two years of age who are suspected of having a POLG-related disorder [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. with known hypersensitivitytodivalproex sodium, sodium valproate, or valproic acid. with known urea cycle disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . being treated for prophylaxis of migraine headaches who are pregnant or in women of childbearing potential who are not using effective contraception [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4 ) and Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ] . Hepatic disease or significant hepatic dysfunction ( 4 , 5.1 ) Known mitochondrial disorders caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA polymerase γ (POLG) ( 4 , 5.1 ) Suspected POLG-related disorder in children under two years of age ( 4, 5.1 ) Known hypersensitivity to divalproex sodium, sodium valproate, or valproic acid ( 4 , 5.12 , 5.13 , 5.14 ) Urea cycle disorders ( 4 , 5.6) Prophylaxis of migraine headaches: Pregnant women, women of childbearing potential not using effective contraception ( 4 , 8.1 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets should not be administered to patients with hepatic disease or significant hepatic dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients known to have mitochondrial disorders caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA polymerase γ (POLG; e.g., Alpers-Huttenlocher Syndrome) and children under two years of age who are suspected of having a POLG-related disorder [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to the drug [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known urea cycle disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . For use in prophylaxis of migraine headaches: Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are contraindicated in women who are pregnant and in women of childbearing potential who are not using effective contraception [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4 ) and Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ] . Hepatic disease or significant hepatic dysfunction (4 , 5.1) Known mitochondrial disorders caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA polymerase γ (POLG) (4 , 5.1) Suspected POLG-related disorder in children under two years of age (4 , 5.1) Known hypersensitivity to the drug (4 , 5.12) Urea cycle disorders (4 , 5.6) Prophylaxis of migraine headaches: Pregnant women, women of childbearing potential not using effective contraception ( 4 , 8.1 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Divalproex sodium delayed-release capsules are contraindicated in patients: with hepatic disease or significant hepatic dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. known to have mitochondrial disorders caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA polymerase γ (POLG; e.g., Alpers-Huttenlocher Syndrome) and children under two years of age who are suspected of having a POLG-related disorder [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. with known hypersensitivity to divalproex sodium, sodium valproate, or valproic acid. Reactions have included multiorgan hypersensitivity, serious dermatologic reactions, and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 , 5.13 , 5.14 )]. with known urea cycle disorders [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ]. being treated for prophylaxis of migraine headaches: who are pregnant or in women of childbearing potential who are not using effective contraception [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4 )andUse in Specific Populations ( 8.1 ) ]. • Hepatic disease or significant hepatic dysfunction ( 4 , 5.1 ) • Known mitochondrial disorders caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA polymerase γ (POLG) ( 4 , 5.1 ) • Suspected POLG-related disorder in children under two years of age ( 4 , 5.1 ) • Known hypersensitivity to the drug ( 4, 5.12 ) • Urea cycle disorders ( 4 , 5.6 ) • Prophylaxis of migraine headaches: Pregnant women, women of childbearing potential not using effective contraception ( 4 , 8.1 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hepatic disease or significant hepatic dysfunction ( 4 , 5.1 ) Known mitochondrial disorders caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA polymerase γ (POLG) ( 4 , 5.1 ) Suspected POLG-related disorder in children under two years of age ( 4 , 5.1 ) Known hypersensitivity to the drug ( 4 , 5.12 ) Urea cycle disorders ( 4 , 5.6) Prophylaxis of migraine headaches: Pregnant women, women of childbearing potential not using effective contraception ( 4 , 8.1 ) Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets should not be administered to patients with hepatic disease or significant hepatic dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients known to have mitochondrial disorders caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA polymerase γ (POLG; e.g, Alpers-Huttenlocher Syndrome) and children under two years of age who are suspected of having a POLG-related disorder [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to the drug [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )]. Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known urea cycle disorders [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )]. For use in prophylaxis of migraine headaches: Divalproex sodium extended-release tablet is contraindicated in women who are pregnant and in women of childbearing potential who are not using effective contraception [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 )] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Depakote is contraindicated in patients: • with hepatic disease or significant hepatic dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ] . • known to have mitochondrial disorders caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA polymerase γ (POLG; e.g., Alpers-Huttenlocher Syndrome) and children under two years of age who are suspected of having a POLG-related disorder [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ] . Reactions have included multiorgan hypersensitivity, serious dermatologic reactions, and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 , 5.13 , 5.14 ) ] . • with known urea cycle disorders [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ] . • being treated for prophylaxis of migraine headaches who are pregnant or in women of childbearing potential who are not using effective contraception [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 ) ] . Hepatic disease or significant hepatic dysfunction ( 4 , 5.1 ) Known mitochondrial disorders caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA polymerase γ (POLG) ( 4 , 5.1 ) Suspected POLG-related disorder in children under two years of age ( 4 , 5.1 ) Known hypersensitivity to divalproex sodium, sodium valproate, or valproic acid ( 4 , 5.12 , 5.13 , 5.14 ) Urea cycle disorders ( 4 , 5.6 ) Prophylaxis of migraine headaches: Pregnant women, women of childbearing potential not using effective contraception ( 4 , 8.1 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Divalproex sodium should not be administered to patients with hepatic disease or significant hepatic dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Divalproex sodium is contraindicated in patients known to have mitochondrial disorders caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA polymerase γ (POLG; e.g., Alpers-Huttenlocher Syndrome) and children under two years of age who are suspected of having a POLG-related disorder [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Divalproex sodium is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to the drug [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)]. Divalproex sodium is contraindicated in patients with known urea cycle disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. For use in prophylaxis of migraine headaches: Divalproex sodium is contraindicated in women who are pregnant and in women of childbearing potential who are not using effective contraception [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3, 5.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. Hepatic disease or significant hepatic dysfunction (4, 5.1) Known mitochondrial disorders caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA polymerase γ (POLG) (4, 5.1) Suspected POLG-related disorder in children under two years of age (4, 5.1) Known hypersensitivity to the drug (4, 5.12) Urea cycle disorders (4, 5.6) Prophylaxis of migraine headaches: Pregnant women, women of childbearing potential not using effective contraception (4, 8.1) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Depakote ER is contraindicated in patients: • with hepatic disease or significant hepatic dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. Reactions have included multiorgan hypersensitivity, serious dermatologic reactions, and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 , 5.13 , 5.14 ) ]. • with known urea cycle disorders [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ]. • being treated for prophylaxis of migraine headaches: who are pregnant or in women of childbearing potential who are not using effective contraception [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 ) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets should not be administered to patients with hepatic disease or significant hepatic dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . • Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients known to have mitochondrial disorders caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA polymerase γ (POLG; e.g., Alpers-Huttenlocher Syndrome) and children under two years of age who are suspected of having a POLG-related disorder [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . • Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to the drug [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . • Divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known urea cycle disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . • For use in prophylaxis of migraine headaches: divalproex sodium extended-release tablets are contraindicated in women who are pregnant and in women of childbearing potential who are not using effective contraception [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4 ) and Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ].
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Hepatic enzyme-inducing drugs (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, primidone, rifampin) can increase valproate clearance, while enzyme inhibitors (e.g., felbamate) can decrease valproate clearance. Therefore, increased monitoring of valproate and concomitant drug concentrations and dosage adjustment are indicated whenever enzyme-inducing or inhibiting drugs are introduced or withdrawn ( 7.1 ) • Aspirin, carbapenem antibiotics, estrogen-containing hormonal contraceptives, methotrexate: Monitoring of valproate concentrations is recommended ( 7.1 ) • Co-administration of valproate can affect the pharmacokinetics of other drugs (e.g., diazepam, ethosuximide, lamotrigine, phenytoin) by inhibiting their metabolism or protein binding displacement ( 7.2 ) • Patients stabilized on rufinamide should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to clinically effective dose ( 7.2 ) • Dosage adjustment of amitriptyline/nortriptyline, propofol, warfarin, and zidovudine may be necessary if used concomitantly with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets ( 7.2 ) • Topiramate: Hyperammonemia and encephalopathy ( 5.10 , 7.3 ) • Cannabidiol: ALT and/or AST elevation ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Effects of Co-Administered Drugs on Valproate Clearance Drugs that affect the level of expression of hepatic enzymes, particularly those that elevate levels of glucuronosyltransferases (such as ritonavir), may increase the clearance of valproate. For example, phenytoin, carbamazepine, and phenobarbital (or primidone) can double the clearance of valproate. Thus, patients on monotherapy will generally have longer half-lives and higher concentrations than patients receiving polytherapy with antiepilepsy drugs. In contrast, drugs that are inhibitors of cytochrome P450 isozymes, e.g., antidepressants, may be expected to have little effect on valproate clearance because cytochrome P450 microsomal mediated oxidation is a relatively minor secondary metabolic pathway compared to glucuronidation and beta-oxidation. Because of these changes in valproate clearance, monitoring of valproate and concomitant drug concentrations should be increased whenever enzyme inducing drugs are introduced or withdrawn. The following list provides information about the potential for an influence of several commonly prescribed medications on valproate pharmacokinetics. The list is not exhaustive nor could it be, since new interactions are continuously being reported. Drugs for which a potentially important interaction has been observed Aspirin A study involving the co-administration of aspirin at antipyretic doses (11 to 16 mg/kg) with valproate to pediatric patients (n = 6) revealed a decrease in protein binding and an inhibition of metabolism of valproate. Valproate free fraction was increased 4-fold in the presence of aspirin compared to valproate alone. The β-oxidation pathway consisting of 2-E-valproic acid, 3-OH-valproic acid, and 3-keto valproic acid was decreased from 25% of total metabolites excreted on valproate alone to 8.3% in the presence of aspirin. Whether or not the interaction observed in this study applies to adults is unknown, but caution should be observed if valproate and aspirin are to be co-administered. Carbapenem Antibiotics A clinically significant reduction in serum valproic acid concentration has been reported in patients receiving carbapenem antibiotics (for example, ertapenem, imipenem, meropenem; this is not a complete list) and may result in loss of seizure control. The mechanism of this interaction is not well understood. Serum valproic acid concentrations should be monitored frequently after initiating carbapenem therapy. Alternative antibacterial or anticonvulsant therapy should be considered if serum valproic acid concentrations drop significantly or seizure control deteriorates [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15) ] . Estrogen-Containing Hormonal Contraceptives Estrogen-containing hormonal contraceptives may increase the clearance of valproate, which may result in decreased concentration of valproate and potentially increased seizure frequency. Prescribers should monitor serum valproate concentrations and clinical response when adding or discontinuing estrogen containing products. Felbamate A study involving the co-administration of 1,200 mg/day of felbamate with valproate to patients with epilepsy (n = 10) revealed an increase in mean valproate peak concentration by 35% (from 86 to 115 mcg/mL) compared to valproate alone. Increasing the felbamate dose to 2,400 mg/day increased the mean valproate peak concentration to 133 mcg/mL (another 16% increase). A decrease in valproate dosage may be necessary when felbamate therapy is initiated. Methotrexate Methotrexate may decrease serum valproate levels and potentially result in increased frequency of seizures or bipolar symptoms. Prescribers should monitor serum valproate concentrations and clinical response when adding or discontinuing methotrexate and adjust valproate dosage, if necessary. Rifampin A study involving the administration of a single dose of valproate (7 mg/kg) 36 hours after 5 nights of daily dosing with rifampin (600 mg) revealed a 40% increase in the oral clearance of valproate. Valproate dosage adjustment may be necessary when it is co-administered with rifampin. 7.2 Effects of Valproate on Other Drugs Valproate has been found to be a weak inhibitor of some P450 isozymes, epoxide hydrase, and glucuronosyltransferases. The following list provides information about the potential for an influence of valproate co-administration on the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of several commonly prescribed medications. The list is not exhaustive, since new interactions are continuously being reported. Drugs for which a potentially important valproate interaction has been observed Amitriptyline/Nortriptyline Administration of a single oral 50 mg dose of amitriptyline to 15 normal volunteers (10 males and 5 females) who received valproate (500 mg BID) resulted in a 21% decrease in plasma clearance of amitriptyline and a 34% decrease in the net clearance of nortriptyline. Rare postmarketing reports of concurrent use of valproate and amitriptyline resulting in an increased amitriptyline level have been received. Concurrent use of valproate and amitriptyline has rarely been associated with toxicity. Monitoring of amitriptyline levels should be considered for patients taking valproate concomitantly with amitriptyline. Consideration should be given to lowering the dose of amitriptyline/nortriptyline in the presence of valproate. Carbamazepine/carbamazepine-10,11-Epoxide Serum levels of carbamazepine (CBZ) decreased 17% while that of carbamazepine-10,11-epoxide (CBZ-E) increased by 45% upon co-administration of valproate and CBZ to epileptic patients. Clonazepam The concomitant use of valproate and clonazepam may induce absence status in patients with a history of absence type seizures. Diazepam Valproate displaces diazepam from its plasma albumin binding sites and inhibits its metabolism. Co-administration of valproate (1,500 mg daily) increased the free fraction of diazepam (10 mg) by 90% in healthy volunteers (n = 6). Plasma clearance and volume of distribution for free diazepam were reduced by 25% and 20%, respectively, in the presence of valproate. The elimination half-life of diazepam remained unchanged upon addition of valproate. Ethosuximide Valproate inhibits the metabolism of ethosuximide. Administration of a single ethosuximide dose of 500 mg with valproate (800 to 1,600 mg/day) to healthy volunteers (n = 6) was accompanied by a 25% increase in elimination half-life of ethosuximide and a 15% decrease in its total clearance as compared to ethosuximide alone. Patients receiving valproate and ethosuximide, especially along with other anticonvulsants, should be monitored for alterations in serum concentrations of both drugs. Lamotrigine In a steady-state study involving 10 healthy volunteers, the elimination half-life of lamotrigine increased from 26 to 70 hours with valproate co-administration (a 165% increase). The dose of lamotrigine should be reduced when co-administered with valproate. Serious skin reactions (such as Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis) have been reported with concomitant lamotrigine and valproate administration. See lamotrigine package insert for details on lamotrigine dosing with concomitant valproate administration. Phenobarbital Valproate was found to inhibit the metabolism of phenobarbital. Co-administration of valproate (250 mg BID for 14 days) with phenobarbital to normal subjects (n = 6) resulted in a 50% increase in half-life and a 30% decrease in plasma clearance of phenobarbital (60 mg single-dose). The fraction of phenobarbital dose excreted unchanged increased by 50% in presence of valproate. There is evidence for severe CNS depression, with or without significant elevations of barbiturate or valproate serum concentrations. All patients receiving concomitant barbiturate therapy should be closely monitored for neurological toxicity. Serum barbiturate concentrations should be obtained, if possible, and the barbiturate dosage decreased, if appropriate. Primidone, which is metabolized to a barbiturate, may be involved in a similar interaction with valproate. Phenytoin Valproate displaces phenytoin from its plasma albumin binding sites and inhibits its hepatic metabolism. Co-administration of valproate (400 mg TID) with phenytoin (250 mg) in normal volunteers (n = 7) was associated with a 60% increase in the free fraction of phenytoin. Total plasma clearance and apparent volume of distribution of phenytoin increased 30% in the presence of valproate. Both the clearance and apparent volume of distribution of free phenytoin were reduced by 25%. In patients with epilepsy, there have been reports of breakthrough seizures occurring with the combination of valproate and phenytoin. The dosage of phenytoin should be adjusted as required by the clinical situation. Propofol The concomitant use of valproate and propofol may lead to increased blood levels of propofol. Reduce the dose of propofol when co-administering with valproate. Monitor patients closely for signs of increased sedation or cardiorespiratory depression. Rufinamide Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis, rufinamide clearance was decreased by valproate. Rufinamide concentrations were increased by < 16% to 70%, dependent on concentration of valproate (with the larger increases being seen in pediatric patients at high doses or concentrations of valproate). Patients stabilized on rufinamide before being prescribed valproate should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to a clinically effective dose [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] . Similarly, patients on valproate should begin at a rufinamide dose lower than 10 mg/kg per day (pediatric patients) or 400 mg per day (adults). Tolbutamide From in vitro experiments, the unbound fraction of tolbutamide was increased from 20% to 50% when added to plasma samples taken from patients treated with valproate. The clinical relevance of this displacement is unknown. Warfarin In an in vitro study, valproate increased the unbound fraction of warfarin by up to 32.6%. The therapeutic relevance of this is unknown; however, coagulation tests should be monitored if valproate therapy is instituted in patients taking anticoagulants. Zidovudine In six patients who were seropositive for HIV, the clearance of zidovudine (100 mg q8h) was decreased by 38% after administration of valproate (250 or 500 mg q8h); the half-life of zidovudine was unaffected. 7.3 Topiramate Concomitant administration of valproate and topiramate has been associated with hyperammonemia with and without encephalopathy [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.6 , 5.9 , 5.10) ] . Concomitant administration of topiramate with valproate has also been associated with hypothermia in patients who have tolerated either drug alone. It may be prudent to examine blood ammonia levels in patients in whom the onset of hypothermia has been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9 , 5.11) ] . 7.4 Cannabidiol Concomitant administration of valproate and cannabidiol has been associated with an increased risk of ALT and/or AST elevation. This has been manageable by dose reduction or, in more severe cases, by discontinuation of one or both drugs. Liver function, including serum transaminase and total bilirubin levels, should be monitored during concomitant treatment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Hepatic enzyme-inducing drugs (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, primidone, rifampin) can increase valproate clearance, while enzyme inhibitors (e.g., felbamate) can decrease valproate clearance. Therefore increased monitoring of valproate and concomitant drug concentrations and dosage adjustment are indicated whenever enzyme-inducing or inhibiting drugs are introduced or withdrawn ( 7.1 ) Aspirin, carbapenem antibiotics, estrogen-containing hormonal contraceptives, methotrexate: Monitoring of valproate concentrations is recommended ( 7.1 ) Co-administration of valproate can affect the pharmacokinetics of other drugs (e.g. diazepam, ethosuximide, lamotrigine, phenytoin) by inhibiting their metabolism or protein binding displacement ( 7.2 ) Patients stabilized on rufinamide should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to clinically effective dose ( 7.2 ) Dosage adjustment of amitriptyline/nortriptyline, propofol, warfarin, and zidovudine may be necessary if used concomitantly with divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets ( 7.2 ) Topiramate: Hyperammonemia and encephalopathy ( 5.10 , 7.3 ) Cannabidiol: ALT and/or AST elevation ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Effects of Co-Administered Drugs on Valproate Clearance Drugs that affect the level of expression of hepatic enzymes, particularly those that elevate levels of glucuronosyltransferases (such as ritonavir), may increase the clearance of valproate. Drugs for which a potentially important interaction has been observed Aspirin A study involving the co-administration of aspirin at antipyretic doses (11 to 16 mg/kg) with valproate to pediatric patients (n=6) revealed a decrease in protein binding and an inhibition of metabolism of valproate. Caution should be observed if valproate and aspirin are to be co-administered. Alternative antibacterial or anticonvulsant therapy should be considered if serum valproic acid concentrations drop significantly or seizure control deteriorates [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] . Felbamate A study involving the co-administration of 1,200 mg/day of felbamate with valproate to patients with epilepsy (n=10) revealed an increase in mean valproate peak concentration by 35% (from 86 to 115 mcg/mL) compared to valproate alone. Co-administration of valproate (1,500 mg daily) increased the free fraction of diazepam (10 mg) by 90% in healthy volunteers (n=6). Administration of a single ethosuximide dose of 500 mg with valproate (800 to 1,600 mg/day) to healthy volunteers (n=6) was accompanied by a 25% increase in elimination half-life of ethosuximide and a 15% decrease in its total clearance as compared to ethosuximide alone. Co-administration of valproate (250 mg BID for 14 days) with phenobarbital to normal subjects (n=6) resulted in a 50% increase in half-life and a 30% decrease in plasma clearance of phenobarbital (60 mg single-dose). Co-administration of valproate (400 mg TID) with phenytoin (250 mg) in normal volunteers (n=7) was associated with a 60% increase in the free fraction of phenytoin. Rufinamide concentrations were increased by <16% to 70%, dependent on concentration of valproate (with the larger increases being seen in pediatric patients at high doses or concentrations of valproate). Patients stabilized on rufinamide before being prescribed valproate should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to a clinically effective dose [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] . Therefore increased monitoring of valproate and concomitant drug concentrations and dosage adjustment are indicated whenever enzyme-inducing or inhibiting drugs are introduced or withdrawn (7.1) Aspirin, carbapenem antibiotics, estrogen-containing hormonal contraceptives, methotrexate: Monitoring of valproate concentrations is recommended ( 7.1 ) Co-administration of valproate can affect the pharmacokinetics of other drugs (e.g., diazepam, ethosuximide, lamotrigine, phenytoin) by inhibiting their metabolism or protein binding displacement (7.2) Patients stabilized on rufinamide should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to clinically effective dose ( 7.2 ) Dosage adjustment of amitriptyline/nortriptyline, propofol, warfarin, and zidovudine may be necessary if used concomitantly with divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets (7.2) Topiramate: Hyperammonemia and encephalopathy (5.10, 7.3) Cannabidiol: ALT and/or AST elevation ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Effects of Co-Administered Drugs on Valproate Clearance Drugs that affect the level of expression of hepatic enzymes, particularly those that elevate levels of glucuronosyltransferases (such as ritonavir), may increase the clearance of valproate. Patients stabilized on rufinamide before being prescribed valproate should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to a clinically effective dose [see Dosage and Administration (2.5)] . 7.3 Topiramate Concomitant administration of valproate and topiramate has been associated with hyperammonemia with and without encephalopathy [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.6 , 5.9, 5.10) ] . It may be prudent to examine blood ammonia levels in patients in whom the onset of hypothermia has been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9, 5.11) ] . Therefore increased monitoring of valproate and concomitant drug concentrations and dosage adjustment are indicated whenever enzyme-inducing or inhibiting drugs are introduced or withdrawn (7.1) Aspirin, carbapenem antibiotics, estrogen-containing hormonal contraceptives, methotrexate: Monitoring of valproate concentrations is recommended (7.1) Co-administration of valproate can affect the pharmacokinetics of other drugs (e.g. diazepam, ethosuximide, lamotrigine, phenytoin) by inhibiting their metabolism or protein binding displacement (7.2) Patients stabilized on rufinamide should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to clinically effective dose (7.2) Dosage adjustment of amitriptyline/nortriptyline, propofol, warfarin, and zidovudine may be necessary if used concomitantly with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets (7.2) Topiramate: Hyperammonemia and encephalopathy (5.10 , 7.3) Cannabidiol: ALT and/or AST elevation ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Effects of Co-Administered Drugs on Valproate Clearance Drugs that affect the level of expression of hepatic enzymes, particularly those that elevate levels of glucuronosyltransferases (such as ritonavir), may increase the clearance of valproate. The β-oxidation pathway consisting of 2-E-valproic acid, 3-OH-valproic acid, and 3-­keto valproic acid was decreased from 25% of total metabolites excreted on valproate alone to 8.3% in the presence of aspirin. Liver function, including serum transaminase and total bilirubin levels, should be monitored during concomitant treatment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Therefore increased monitoring of valproate and concomitant drug concentrations and dosage adjustment are indicated whenever enzyme-inducing or inhibiting drugs are introduced or withdrawn (7.1) • Aspirin, carbapenem antibiotics, estrogen-containing hormonal contraceptives, methotrexate: Monitoring of valproate concentrations is recommended (7.1) • Co-administration of valproate can affect the pharmacokinetics of other drugs (e.g.diazepam, ethosuximide, lamotrigine, phenytoin) by inhibiting their metabolism or protein binding displacement (7.2) • Patients stabilized on rufinamide should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to clinically effective dose (7.2) • Dosage adjustment of amitriptyline/nortriptyline, propofol, warfarin, and zidovudine may be necessary if used concomitantly with divalproex sodium delayed-release capsules (7.2) • Topiramate: Hyperammonemia and encephalopathy ( 5.10 , 7.3 ) • Cannabidiol: ALT and/or AST elevation ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Effects of Co-Administered Drugs on Valproate Clearance Drugs that affect the level of expression of hepatic enzymes, particularly those that elevate levels of glucuronosyltransferases (such as ritonavir), may increase the clearance of valproate. Alternative antibacterial or anticonvulsant therapy should be considered if serum valproic acid concentrations drop significantly or seizure control deteriorates [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.15 ) ]. Patients stabilized on rufinamide before being prescribed valproate should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to a clinically effective dose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ) ]. 7.3 Topiramate Concomitant administration of valproate and topiramate has been associated with hyperammonemia with and without encephalopathy [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 , 5.9 , 5.10 ) ]. It may be prudent to examine blood ammonia levels in patients in whom the onset of hypothermia has been reported [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 , 5.11 ) ]. Liver function, including serum transaminase and total bilirubin levels, should be monitored during concomitant treatment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. diazepam, ethosuximide, lamotrigine, phenytoin) by inhibiting their metabolism or protein binding displacement ( 7.2 ) Patients stabilized on rufinamide should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to clinically effective dose ( 7.2 ) Dosage adjustment of amitriptyline/nortryptyline, propofol, warfarin, and zidovudine may be necessary if used concomitantly with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets ( 7.2 ) Topiramate: Hyperammonemia and encephalopathy ( 5.10 , 7.3 ) Cannabidiol: ALT and/or AST elevation ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Effects of Co-Administered Drugs on Valproate Clearance Drugs that affect the level of expression of hepatic enzymes, particularly those that elevate levels of glucuronosyltransferases (such as ritonavir), may increase the clearance of valproate. Drugs for which a potentially important interaction has been observed Aspirin: A study involving the co-administration of aspirin at antipyretic doses (11 to 16 mg/kg) with valproate to pediatric patients (n=6) revealed a decrease in protein binding and an inhibition of metabolism of valproate. The β-oxidation pathway consisting of 2-E-valproic acid, 3-OH- valproic acid, and 3-keto valproic acid was decreased from 25% of total metabolites excreted on valproate alone to 8.3% in the presence of aspirin. Carbapenem Antibiotics: A clinically significant reduction in serum valproic acid concentration has been reported in patients receiving carbapenem antibiotics (for example, ertapenem, imipenem, meropenem; this is not a complete list) and may result in loss of seizure control. Alternative antibacterial or anticonvulsant therapy should be considered if serum valproic acid concentrations drop significantly or seizure control deteriorates [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 )] . Estrogen-Containing Hormonal Contraceptives: Estrogen-containing hormonal contraceptives may increase the clearance of valproate, which may result in decreased concentration of valproate and potentially increased seizure frequency. Felbamate: A study involving the co-administration of 1,200 mg/day of felbamate with valproate to patients with epilepsy (n=10) revealed an increase in mean valproate peak concentration by 35% (from 86 to 115 mcg/mL) compared to valproate alone. Methotrexate: Methotrexate may decrease serum valproate levels and potentially result in increased frequency of seizures or bipolar symptoms. Rifampin: A study involving the administration of a single dose of valproate (7 mg/kg) 36 hours after 5 nights of daily dosing with rifampin (600 mg) revealed a 40% increase in the oral clearance of valproate. The following list provides information about the potential for an influence of valproate co- administration on the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of several commonly prescribed medications. Drugs for which a potentially important valproate interaction has been observed Amitriptyline/Nortriptyline: Administration of a single oral 50 mg dose of amitriptyline to 15 normal volunteers (10 males and 5 females) who received valproate (500 mg BID) resulted in a 21% decrease in plasma clearance of amitriptyline and a 34% decrease in the net clearance of nortriptyline. Carbamazepine/carbamazepine-10,11-Epoxide: Serum levels of carbamazepine (CBZ) decreased 17% while that of carbamazepine-10, 11- epoxide (CBZ-E) increased by 45% upon co-administration of valproate and CBZ to epileptic patients. Clonazepam: The concomitant use of valproate and clonazepam may induce absence status in patients with a history of absence type seizures. Diazepam: Valproate displaces diazepam from its plasma albumin binding sites and inhibits its metabolism. Ethosuximide: Valproate inhibits the metabolism of ethosuximide. Lamotrigine: In a steady-state study involving 10 healthy volunteers, the elimination half-life of lamotrigine increased from 26 to 70 hours with valproate co-administration (a 165% increase). Phenobarbital: Valproate was found to inhibit the metabolism of phenobarbital. Phenytoin: Valproate displaces phenytoin from its plasma albumin binding sites and inhibits its hepatic metabolism. Propofol: The concomitant use of valproate and propofol may lead to increased blood levels of propofol. Rufinamide: Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis, rufinamide clearance was decreased by valproate. Patients stabilized on rufinamide before being prescribed valproate should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to a clinically effective dose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )] . Tolbutamide: From in vitro experiments, the unbound fraction of tolbutamide was increased from 20% to 50% when added to plasma samples taken from patients treated with valproate. Warfarin: In an in vitro study, valproate increased the unbound fraction of warfarin by up to 32.6%. Zidovudine: In six patients who were seropositive for HIV, the clearance of zidovudine (100 mg q8h) was decreased by 38% after administration of valproate (250 or 500 mg q8h); the half-life of zidovudine was unaffected. 7.3 Topiramate Concomitant administration of valproate and topiramate has been associated with hyperammonemia with and without encephalopathy [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 , 5.9 , 5.10 )] . It may be prudent to examine blood ammonia levels in patients in whom the onset of hypothermia has been reported [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 , 5.11 )] . Liver function, including serum transaminase and total bilirubin levels, should be monitored during concomitant treatment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Therefore increased monitoring of valproate and concomitant drug concentrations and dosage adjustment are indicated whenever enzyme-inducing or inhibiting drugs are introduced or withdrawn ( 7.1 ) Aspirin, carbapenem antibiotics, estrogen-containing hormonal contraceptives, methotrexate: Monitoring of valproate concentrations is recommended ( 7.1 ) Co-administration of valproate can affect the pharmacokinetics of other drugs (e.g., diazepam, ethosuximide, lamotrigine, phenytoin) by inhibiting their metabolism or protein binding displacement ( 7.2 ) Patients stabilized on rufinamide should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to clinically effective dose ( 7.2 ) Dosage adjustment of amitriptyline/nortriptyline, propofol, warfarin, and zidovudine may be necessary if used concomitantly with Depakote ( 7.2 ) Topiramate: Hyperammonemia and encephalopathy ( 5.10 , 7.3 ) Cannabidiol: ALT and/or AST elevation ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Effects of Co-Administered Drugs on Valproate Clearance Drugs that affect the level of expression of hepatic enzymes, particularly those that elevate levels of glucuronosyltransferases (such as ritonavir), may increase the clearance of valproate. Alternative antibacterial or anticonvulsant therapy should be considered if serum valproic acid concentrations drop significantly or seizure control deteriorates [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.15 ) ] . Patients stabilized on rufinamide before being prescribed valproate should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to a clinically effective dose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ) ] . 7.3 Topiramate Concomitant administration of valproate and topiramate has been associated with hyperammonemia with and without encephalopathy [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 , 5.9 , 5.10 ) ] . It may be prudent to examine blood ammonia levels in patients in whom the onset of hypothermia has been reported [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 , 5.11 ) ] . Liver function, including serum transaminase and total bilirubin levels, should be monitored during concomitant treatment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ] . Therefore increased monitoring of valproate and concomitant drug concentrations and dosage adjustment are indicated whenever enzyme-inducing or inhibiting drugs are introduced or withdrawn (7.1) Aspirin, carbapenem antibiotics, estrogen-containing hormonal contraceptives, methotrexate: Monitoring of valproate concentrations is recommended (7.1) Coadministration of valproate can affect the pharmacokinetics of other drugs (e.g. diazepam, ethosuximide, lamotrigine, phenytoin) by inhibiting their metabolism or protein binding displacement (7.2) Patients stabilized on rufinamide should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to clinically effective dose (7.2) Dosage adjustment of amitryptyline/nortryptyline, propofol, warfarin, and zidovudine may be necessary if used concomitantly with divalproex sodium delayed-release tablets (7.2) Topiramate: Hyperammonemia and encephalopathy (5.10, 7.3) Cannabidiol: ALT and/or AST elevation (7.4) 7.1 Effects of Coadministered Drugs on Valproate Clearance Drugs that affect the level of expression of hepatic enzymes, particularly those that elevate levels of glucuronosyltransferases (such as ritonavir), may increase the clearance of valproate. Drugs for which a potentially important interaction has been observed Aspirin A study involving the coadministration of aspirin at antipyretic doses (11 to 16 mg/kg) with valproate to pediatric patients (n=6) revealed a decrease in protein binding and an inhibition of metabolism of valproate. The β­-oxidation pathway consisting of 2-E-valproic acid, 3-OH-valproic acid, and 3-keto valproic acid was decreased from 25% of total metabolites excreted on valproate alone to 8.3% in the presence of aspirin. Caution should be observed if valproate and aspirin are to be coadministered. Felbamate A study involving the coadministration of 1,200 mg/day of felbamate with valproate to patients with epilepsy (n=10) revealed an increase in mean valproate peak concentration by 35% (from 86 to 115 mcg/mL) compared to valproate alone. Valproate dosage adjustment may be necessary when it is coadministered with rifampin. The following list provides information about the potential for an influence of valproate coadministration on the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of several commonly prescribed medications. Carbamazepine/carbamazepine-10,11-Epoxide Serum levels of carbamazepine (CBZ) decreased 17% while that of carbamazepine-10,11-epoxide (CBZ-E) increased by 45% upon coadministration of valproate and CBZ to epileptic patients. Coadministration of valproate (1,500 mg daily) increased the free fraction of diazepam (10 mg) by 90% in healthy volunteers (n=6). Lamotrigine In a steady-state study involving 10 healthy volunteers, the elimination half-life of lamotrigine increased from 26 to 70 hours with valproate coadministration (a 165% increase). The dose of lamotrigine should be reduced when coadministered with valproate. Coadministration of valproate (250 mg BID for 14 days) with phenobarbital to normal subjects (n=6) resulted in a 50% increase in half-life and a 30% decrease in plasma clearance of phenobarbital (60 mg single-dose). Coadministration of valproate (400 mg TID) with phenytoin (250 mg) in normal volunteers (n=7) was associated with a 60% increase in the free fraction of phenytoin. Reduce the dose of propofol when coadministering with valproate. Patients stabilized on rufinamide before being prescribed valproate should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to a clinically effective dose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )] . Liver function, including serum transaminase and total bilirubin levels, should be monitored during concomitant treatment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Therefore, increased monitoring of valproate and concomitant drug concentrations and dosage adjustment are indicated whenever enzyme-inducing or inhibiting drugs are introduced or withdrawn ( 7.1 ) Aspirin, carbapenem antibiotics, estrogen-containing hormonal contraceptives, methotrexate: Monitoring of valproate concentrations is recommended ( 7.1 ) Co-administration of valproate can affect the pharmacokinetics of other drugs (e.g., diazepam, ethosuximide, lamotrigine, phenytoin) by inhibiting their metabolism or protein binding displacement ( 7.2 ) Patients stabilized on rufinamide should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to clinically effective dose ( 7.2 ) Dosage adjustment of amitriptyline/nortriptyline, propofol, warfarin, and zidovudine may be necessary if used concomitantly with Depakote ER ( 7.2 ) Topiramate: Hyperammonemia and encephalopathy ( 5.10 , 7.3 ) Cannabidiol: ALT and/or AST elevation ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Effects of Co-Administered Drugs on Valproate Clearance Drugs that affect the level of expression of hepatic enzymes, particularly those that elevate levels of glucuronosyltransferases (such as ritonavir), may increase the clearance of valproate. Patients stabilized on rufinamide before being prescribed valproate should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to a clinically effective dose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ) ] . Therefore increased monitoring of valproate and concomitant drug concentrations and dosage adjustment are indicated whenever enzyme-inducing or inhibiting drugs are introduced or withdrawn ( 7.1 ) • Aspirin, carbapenem antibiotics, estrogen-containing hormonal contraceptives: Monitoring of valproate concentrations is recommended ( 7.1 ) • Co-administration of valproate can affect the pharmacokinetics of other drugs (e.g., diazepam, ethosuximide, lamotrigine, phenytoin) by inhibiting their metabolism or protein binding displacement ( 7.2 ) • Patients stabilized on rufinamide should begin valproate therapy at a low dose, and titrate to clinically effective dose ( 7.2 ) • Dosage adjustment of amitriptyline/nortriptyline, propofol, warfarin, and zidovudine may be necessary if used concomitantly with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets ( 7.2 ) • Topiramate: Hyperammonemia and encephalopathy ( 5.10 , 7.3 ) 7.1 Effects of Co-Administered Drugs on Valproate Clearance Drugs that affect the level of expression of hepatic enzymes, particularly those that elevate levels of glucuronosyltransferases (such as ritonavir), may increase the clearance of valproate. Drugs for Which Either No Interaction or a Likely Clinically Unimportant Interaction Has Been Observed Antacids A study involving the co-administration of valproate 500 mg with commonly administered antacids (Maalox ® , Trisogel, and Titralac ™ - 160 mEq doses) did not reveal any effect on the extent of absorption of valproate. Chlorpromazine A study involving the administration of 100 to 300 mg/day of chlorpromazine to schizophrenic patients already receiving valproate (200 mg BID) revealed a 15% increase in trough plasma levels of valproate. Haloperidol A study involving the administration of 6 to 10 mg/day of haloperidol to schizophrenic patients already receiving valproate (200 mg BID) revealed no significant changes in valproate trough plasma levels. Cimetidine and Ranitidine Cimetidine and ranitidine do not affect the clearance of valproate. Drugs for Which Either No Interaction or a Likely Clinically Unimportant Interaction Has Been Observed Acetaminophen Valproate had no effect on any of the pharmacokinetic parameters of acetaminophen when it was concurrently administered to three epileptic patients. Clozapine In psychotic patients (n = 11), no interaction was observed when valproate was co-administered with clozapine. Lithium Co-administration of valproate (500 mg BID) and lithium carbonate (300 mg TID) to normal male volunteers (n = 16) had no effect on the steady-state kinetics of lithium. Lorazepam Concomitant administration of valproate (500 mg BID) and lorazepam (1 mg BID) in normal male volunteers (n = 9) was accompanied by a 17% decrease in the plasma clearance of lorazepam. Olanzapine No dose adjustment for olanzapine is necessary when olanzapine is administered concomitantly with valproate. Co-administration of valproate (500 mg BID) and olanzapine (5 mg) to healthy adults (n = 10) caused 15% reduction in Cmax and 35% reduction in AUC of olanzapine . Oral Contraceptive Steroids Administration of a single-dose of ethinyloestradiol (50 mcg)/levonorgestrel (250 mcg) to 6 women on valproate (200 mg BID) therapy for 2 months did not reveal any pharmacokinetic interaction.

=== ESTRADIOL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: *Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. Not FDA evaluated.
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Iclevia TM (levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets) is indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. Iclevia is a combination of levonorgestrel, a progestin, and ethinyl estradiol, an estrogen, indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sprintec ® is a combination of norgestimate, a progestin, and ethinyl estradiol, an estrogen, indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Oral Contraceptive Sprintec ® (norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets) is indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Estradiol Vaginal Cream, 0.01% is indicated in the treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of vulvar and vaginal atrophy due to menopause. Estradiol tablets are indicated in the: 1. Treatment of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms associated with the menopause. 2. Treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of vulvar and vaginal atrophy associated with the menopause. When prescribing solely for the treatment of symptoms of vulvar and vaginal atrophy, topical vaginal products should be considered. 3. Treatment of hypoestrogenism due to hypogonadism, castration or primary ovarian failure. 4. Treatment of breast cancer (for palliation only) in appropriately selected women and men with metastatic disease. 5. Treatment of advanced androgen-dependent carcinoma of the prostate (for palliation only). 6. Prevention of osteoporosis. When prescribing solely for the prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis, therapy should only be considered for women at significant risk of osteoporosis and for whom non-estrogen medications are not considered to be appropriate (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, CLINICAL STUDIES). The mainstays for decreasing the risk of postmenopausal osteoporosis are weight bearing exercise, adequate calcium and vitamin D intake, and when indicated, pharmacologic therapy. Postmenopausal women require an average of 1500 mg/day of elemental calcium. Therefore, when not contraindicated, calcium supplementation may be helpful for women with suboptimal dietary intake. Vitamin D supplementation of 400 to 800 IU/day may also be required to ensure adequate daily intake in postmenopausal women. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Estradiol Vaginal Cream 0.01% is indicated in the treatment of moderate to severe symptoms of vulvar and vaginal atrophy due to menopause. INDICATIONS For the temporary relief of occasional headache, cough, minor sore throat, red or irritated skin or eyes, weakness, nausea, or vomiting.* INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hailey 1.5/30 is indicated for the prevention of pregnancy in women who elect to use oral contraceptives as a method of contraception. Oral contraceptives are highly effective. Table 1 lists the typical accidental pregnancy rates for users of combination oral contraceptives and other methods of contraception. The efficacy of these contraceptive methods, except sterilization, depends upon the reliability with which they are used. Correct and consistent use of methods can result in lower failure rates. TABLE 1 LOWEST EXPECTED AND TYPICAL FAILURE RATES DURING THE FIRST YEAR OF CONTINUOUS USE OF A METHOD % Of Women Experiencing an Unintended Pregnancy in the First Year of Continuous Use Method Lowest Expected* Typical** (No contraception) (85) (85) Oral contraceptives Combined progestin only 0.1 0.5 3 N/A*** N/A*** Diaphragm with spermicidal cream or jelly 6 20 Spermicides alone (foam, creams, gels, vaginal suppositories, and vaginal film) 6 26 Vaginal Sponge nulliparous parous 9 20 20 40 Implant 0.05 0.05 Injection: depot medroxyprogesterone acetate 0.3 0.3 IUD progesterone T copper T 380A LNg 20 1.5 0.6 0.1 2 0.8 0.1 Condom without spermicides female male 5 3 21 14 Cervical Cap with spermicidal cream or jelly nulliparous parous 9 26 20 40 Periodic abstinence (all methods) 1 to 9 25 Withdrawal 4 19 Female sterilization 0.5 0.5 Male sterilization 0.1 0.15 Adapted from RA Hatcher et al, Reference 7. *The authors' best guess of the percentage of women expected to experience an accidental pregnancy among couples who initiate a method (not necessarily for the first time) and who use it consistently and correctly during the first year if they do not stop for any other reason. **This term represents “typical” couples who initiate use of a method (not necessarily for the first time), who experience an accidental pregnancy during the first year if they do not stop use for any other reason. ***N/A-Data not available. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE • Natazia is a combination of dienogest , a progestin, and estradiol valerate, an estrogen, indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. ( 1 ) • The efficacy of Natazia in females of reproductive potential with a body mass index (BMI) of >30 kg/m 2 has not been evaluated. ( 1 , 8.8 ) • Treatment of heavy menstrual bleeding in females of reproductive potential without organic pathology who choose to use an oral contraceptive as their method of contraception. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Oral Contraception Natazia ® is indicated for use by women to prevent pregnancy. The efficacy of Natazia in women with a body mass index (BMI) of > 30 kg/m 2 has not been evaluated. 1.2 Heavy Menstrual Bleeding Natazia is also indicated for the treatment of heavy menstrual bleeding in women without organic pathology who choose to use an oral contraceptive as their method of contraception [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Microgestin Fe 1.5/30 is indicated for the prevention of pregnancy in women who elect to use oral contraceptives as a method of contraception. Table I lists the typical accidental pregnancy rates for users of combination oral contraceptives and other methods of contraception. 2
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day for 91 days. (2.1) Take tablets in the order directed on the Extended-Cycle Wallet. (2.2) 2.1 How to Start and Take Iclevia Iclevia is dispensed in an Extended-Cycle Wallet [see How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16) ]. Iclevia should be started on a Sunday (see Table 1). For the first cycle of a Sunday Start regimen, an additional method of contraception should be used until after the first 7 consecutive days of administration. Table 1: Instructions for Administration of Iclevia Starting Iclevia in females with no current use of hormonal contraception (Sunday Start) Important: Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of this product. Tablet Color: Iclevia active tablets are white (Day 1 to Day 84). Iclevia inactive tablets are green (Day 85 to Day 91). Sunday Start: For each 91-day course, take in the following order: Take the first white tablet (0.15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0.03 mg ethinyl estradiol) on the first Sunday after the onset of menstruation. If menstruation begins on a Sunday, take the tablet on that day. Due to the potential risk of becoming pregnant, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) for the first 7 days of treatment. Take subsequent white tablets once daily at the same time each day for a total of 84 days. Take one green tablet (inert) daily for the following 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken. A scheduled period should occur during the 7 days that the green tablets are taken. Begin the next and all subsequent 91-day courses of Iclevia without interruption on the same day of the week (Sunday) on which the patient began her first dose. Follow the same schedule as the initial 91-day course: a white tablet once a day for 84 days, and a green tablet once a day for 7 days. If the patient does not immediately start her next pill pack, instruct her to protect herself from pregnancy by using a non-hormonal back-up method of contraception until she has taken a white tablet daily for 7 consecutive days. Switching from another contraceptive method to Iclevia Start Iclevia: Another oral contraceptive On the day when the new pack of the previous COC would have been started Transdermal patch On the day when the next application would have been scheduled. Vaginal ring On the day when the next insertion would have been scheduled. Injection On the day when the next injection would have been scheduled. Intrauterine contraceptive (IUD) On the day of removal. If the IUD is not removed on first day of the patient’s menstrual cycle, additional non- hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) is needed for the first seven days of the first 91-day course. Implant On the day of removal. Starting Iclevia after Abortion or Miscarriage First-trimester After a first-trimester abortion or miscarriage, Iclevia may be started immediately. An additional method of contraception is not needed if Iclevia is started immediately. If Iclevia is not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy, the patient should use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) for the first seven days of her first 91-day course of Iclevia. Second-trimester Do not start Iclevia until 4 weeks after a second-trimester abortion or miscarriage, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start Iclevia following the instructions in Table 1 for Sunday start. Use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient’s first 91-day course of Iclevia [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Starting Iclevia after Childbirth Do not start Iclevia until 4 weeks after delivery, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start contraceptive therapy with Iclevia following the instructions in Table 1 for women not currently using hormonal contraception. Iclevia is not recommended for use in lactating women [see Use in Specific Populations (8.2) ] . If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum, consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of Iclevia [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.1 and 8.2) ]. 2.2 Dosing Iclevia Instruct patients to take one tablet by mouth at the same time every day. The dosing of Iclevia is one white pill containing levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol daily for 84 consecutive days, followed by one green pill (inactive pills without hormone) for 7 days. To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, Iclevia must be taken exactly as directed, in the order directed on the Wallet, and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours. Start taking the first white pill from a new Wallet the very next day after taking the last green inactive pill in the Wallet. The failure rate may increase when pills are missed or taken incorrectly. 2.3 Missed Doses Table 2: Instructions for Missed Iclevia Tablets If one active tablet (white) is missed in Days 1 through 84 Take the tablet as soon as possible. Take the next tablet at the regular time and continue taking one tablet a day until the 91-day course is finished. If two consecutive active tablets (white) are missed in Days 1 through 84 Take 2 tablets on the day remembered and 2 tablets the next day. Then continue taking one tablet a day until the 91-day course is finished. Additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) should be used as back-up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing tablets. If three or more consecutive active tablets (white) are missed in Days 1 through 84 Do not take the missed tablets. Continue taking one tablet a day until the 91-day course is finished. Additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) must be used as back-up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing tablets. If any of the seven green (inactive) tablets are missed Throw away the missed tablets. Continue taking the remaining tablets until the pack is finished. A backup birth control method is not needed. 2.4 Advice in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances In case of severe vomiting or diarrhea, absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken. If vomiting or diarrhea occurs within 3 to 4 hours after taking a white tablet, handle this as a missed tablet. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day. ( 2.1 ) Take tablets in the order directed on the blister pack. ( 2.1 ) Do not skip or delay tablet intake. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage and Administration Take one tablet by mouth at the same time each day with or without food. Table 1 provides the recommended dosage and administration instructions for Sprintec. Table 1: Instructions for Administration of Sprintec Starting COCs in women not currently using hormonal contraception (Day 1 Start or Sunday Start) Important: Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of this product. Tablet Color: Sprintec active tablets are blue (Day 1 to Day 21). Sprintec has white inactive tablets (Day 22 to Day 28). Day 1 Start: Take first active tablet without regard to meals on the first day of menses. Take subsequent active tablets once daily at the same time each day for a total of 21 days. Take one white inactive tablet daily for 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken. Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack (i.e., on the day after taking the last inactive tablet) Sunday Start: Take first active tablet without regard to meals on the first Sunday after the onset of menses. Due to the potential risk of becoming pregnant, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient’s first cycle pack of Sprintec. Take one white inactive tablet daily for the following 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken. Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack (i.e., on the Sunday after taking the last inactive tablet) and additional non-hormonal contraceptive is not needed. Switching to Sprintec from another oral contraceptive Start on the same day that a new pack of the previous oral contraceptive would have started. Switching from another contraceptive method to Sprintec Start Sprintec: Transdermal patch On the day when next application would have been scheduled Vaginal ring On the day when next insertion would have been scheduled Injection On the day when next injection would have been scheduled Intrauterine contraceptive On the day of removal If the IUD is not removed on first day of the patient’s menstrual cycle, additional non-hormonal contraceptive (such as condoms and spermicide) is needed for the first seven days of the first cycle pack. Implant On the day of removal Complete instructions to facilitate patient counseling on proper tablet usage are located in the FDA-Approved Patient Labeling. Starting Sprintec after Abortion or Miscarriage First-trimester After a first-trimester abortion or miscarriage, Sprintec may be started immediately. An additional method of contraception is not needed if Sprintec is started immediately. If Sprintec is not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy, the patient should use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of her first cycle pack of Sprintec. Second-trimester Do not start until 4 weeks after a second-trimester abortion or miscarriage, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start Sprintec, following the instructions in Table 1 for Day 1 or Sunday start, as desired. If using Sunday start, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient’s first cycle pack of Sprintec [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Starting Sprintec after Childbirth Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start contraceptive therapy with Sprintec following the instructions in Table 1 for women not currently using hormonal contraception. Sprintec is not recommended for use in lactating women [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.2 )]. If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum, consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of Sprintec [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 , and 8.2 )]. 2.2 Recommendations Regarding Missed Doses Contraceptive failure may occur when active tablets are missed. Table 2 describes instructions for Sprintec dosing and use of additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms) when active tablets are missed. Table 2: Instructions for Missed Sprintec Tablets If one active tablet is missed in Weeks 1, 2, or 3 Take the tablet as soon as possible. Continue taking one tablet a day until the pack is finished. If two active tablets are missed in Week 1 or Week 2 Take the two missed tablets as soon as possible and the next two active tablets the next day. Additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) should be used as back-up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing tablets. If two active tablets are missed in the third week or three or more active tablets are missed in a row in Weeks 1, 2, or 3 Day 1 start : Throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day. Sunday start : Continue taking one tablet a day until Sunday, then throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day. 2.3 Dosage Recommendations if Vomiting or Diarrhea Occurs In case of severe vomiting or diarrhea, absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken. If vomiting or diarrhea occurs within 3 to 4 hours after taking an active tablet, handle this as a missed tablet. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use of Estradiol Vaginal Cream, 0.01% alone or in combination with a progestin, should be limited to the shortest duration consistent with treatment goals and risks for the individual woman. Postmenopausal women should reevaluate periodically as clinically appropriate to determine if treatment is still necessary. For treatment of vulvar and vaginal atrophy associated with the menopause, the lowest dose and regimen that will control symptoms should be chosen and medication should be discontinued as promptly as possible. For women who have a uterus, adequate diagnostic measures, including directed and random endometrial sampling when indicated, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in cases of undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding. Usual Dosage: The usual dosage range is 2 to 4 g (marked on the applicator) daily for one or two weeks, then gradually reduced to one half initial dosage for a similar period. A maintenance dosage of 1 g, one to three times a week, may be used after restoration of the vaginal mucosa has been achieved. NOTE: The number of doses per tube will vary with dosage requirements and patient handling. When estrogen is prescribed for a postmenopausal woman with a uterus, a progestin should also be initiated to reduce the risk of endometrial cancer. A woman without a uterus does not need progestin. Use of estrogen, alone or in combination with a progestin, should be with the lowest effective dose and for the shortest duration consistent with treatment goals and risks for the individual woman. Patients should be reevaluated periodically as clinically appropriate (e.g., 3-month to 6-month intervals) to determine if treatment is still necessary (see BOXED WARNINGS and WARNINGS). For women who have a uterus, adequate diagnostic measures, such as endometrial sampling, when indicated, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in cases of undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal vaginal bleeding. Patients should be started at the lowest dose for the indication. 1. For treatment of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms, vulval and vaginal atrophy associated with the menopause, the lowest dose and regimen that will control symptoms should be chosen and medication should be discontinued as promptly as possible. Attempts to discontinue or taper medication should be made at 3-month to 6-month intervals. The usual initial dosage range is 1 to 2 mg daily of estradiol adjusted as necessary to control presenting symptoms. The minimal effective dose for maintenance therapy should be determined by titration. Administration should be cyclic (e.g., 3 weeks on and 1 week off). 2. For treatment of female hypoestrogenism due to hypogonadism, castration, or primary ovarian failure. Treatment is usually initiated with a dose of 1 to 2 mg daily of estradiol, adjusted as necessary to control presenting symptoms; the minimal effective dose for maintenance therapy should be determined by titration. 3. For treatment of breast cancer, for palliation only, in appropriately selected women and men with metastatic disease. Suggested dosage is 10 mg three times daily for a period of at least three months. 4. For treatment of advanced androgen-dependent carcinoma of the prostate, for palliation only. Suggested dosage is 1 to 2 mg three times daily. The effectiveness of therapy can be judged by phosphatase determinations as well as by symptomatic improvement of the patient. 5. For prevention of osteoporosis. When prescribing solely for the prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis, therapy should be considered only for women at significant risk of osteoporosis and for whom non-estrogen medications are not considered to be appropriate. The lowest effective dose of estradiol has not been determined. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use of Estradiol Vaginal Cream 0.01% alone or in combination with a progestin, should be limited to the shortest duration consistent with treatment goals and risks for the individual woman. DIRECTIONS Place drops under tongue 30 minutes before/after meals. Adults and children 12 years and over: Take 10 drops up to 3 times per day. Consult a physician for use in children under 12 years of age. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The tablet dispenser has been designed to make oral contraceptive dosing as easy and as convenient as possible. The tablets are arranged in three rows of seven tablets each, with the days of the week appearing on the tablet dispenser above the first row of tablets. Note: Each tablet dispenser has been preprinted with the days of the week, starting with Sunday, to facilitate a Sunday-Start regimen. Six different day label strips have been provided with the Detailed Patient & Brief Summary Patient Package Insert in order to accommodate a Day-1 Start regimen. If the patient is using the Day-1 Start regimen, she should place the self-adhesive day label strip that corresponds to her starting day over the preprinted days. Important: The patient should be instructed to use an additional method of protection until after the first week of administration in the initial cycle when utilizing the Sunday-Start regimen. The possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of use should be considered. Dosage and Administration for 21-Day Dosage Regimen To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, Hailey 1.5/30 must be taken exactly as directed and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours. Hailey 1.5/30 provides the patient with a convenient tablet schedule of “3 weeks on-1 week off”. Two dosage regimens are described, one of which may be more convenient or suitable than the other for an individual patient. For the initial cycle of therapy, the patient begins her tablets according to the Day-1 Start or Sunday-Start regimen. With either regimen, the patient takes one tablet daily for 21 consecutive days followed by one week of no tablets. A. Sunday-Start Regimen: The patient begins taking tablets from the top row on the first Sunday after menstrual flow begins. When menstrual flow begins on Sunday, the first tablet is taken on the same day. The last tablet in the dispenser will then be taken on a Saturday, followed by no tablets for a week (7 days). For all subsequent cycles, the patient then begins a new 21-tablet regimen on the eighth day, Sunday, after taking her last tablet. Following this regimen, of 21 days on-7 days off, the patient will start all subsequent cycles on a Sunday. B. Day-1 Regimen: The first day of menstrual flow is Day 1. The patient places the self-adhesive day label strip that corresponds to her starting day over the preprinted days on the tablet dispenser. She starts taking one tablet daily, beginning with the first tablet in the top row. The patient completes her 21-tablet regimen when she has taken the last tablet in the tablet dispenser. She will then take no tablets for a week (7 days). For all subsequent cycles, the patient begins a new 21-tablet regimen on the eighth day after taking her last tablet, again starting with the first tablet in the top row after placing the appropriate day label strip over the preprinted days on the tablet dispenser. Following this regimen of 21 days on-7 days off, the patient will start all subsequent cycles on the same day of the week as the first course. Likewise, the interval of no tablets will always start on the same day of the week. Tablets should be taken regularly with a meal or at bedtime. It should be stressed that efficacy of medication depends on strict adherence to the dosage schedule. Special Notes on Administration Menstruation usually begins two or three days, but may begin as late as the fourth or fifth day, after discontinuing medication. If spotting occurs while on the usual regimen of one tablet daily, the patient should continue medication without interruption. If the patient forgets to take one or more tablets, the following is suggested: One tablet is missed • take tablet as soon as remembered • take next tablet at the regular time Two consecutive tablets are missed (week 1 or week 2) • take two tablets as soon as remembered • take two tablets the next day • use another birth control method for seven days following the missed tablets Two consecutive tablets are missed (week 3) Sunday-Start Regimen: • take one tablet daily until Sunday • discard remaining tablets • start new pack of tablets immediately (Sunday) • use another birth control method for seven days following the missed tablets Day-1 Start Regimen: • discard remaining tablets • start new pack of tablets that same day • use another birth control method for seven days following the missed tablets Three (or more) consecutive tablets are missed Sunday-Start Regimen: • take one tablet daily until Sunday • discard remaining tablets • start new pack of tablets immediately (Sunday) • use another birth control method for seven days following the missed tablets Day-1 Start Regimen: • discard remaining tablets • start new pack of tablets that same day • use another birth control method for seven days following the missed tablets The possibility of ovulation occurring increases with each successive day that scheduled tablets are missed. While there is little likelihood of ovulation occurring if only one tablet is missed, the possibility of spotting or bleeding is increased. This is particularly likely to occur if two or more consecutive tablets are missed. In the rare case of bleeding which resembles menstruation, the patient should be advised to discontinue medication and then begin taking tablets from a new tablet dispenser on the next Sunday or the first day (Day 1), depending on her regimen. Persistent bleeding which is not controlled by this method indicates the need for reexamination of the patient, at which time nonfunctional causes should be considered. Use of Oral Contraceptives in the Event of a Missed Menstrual Period 1. If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed dosage regimen, the possibility of pregnancy should be considered after the first missed period and oral contraceptives should be withheld until pregnancy has been ruled out. If the patient has adhered to the prescribed regimen and misses two consecutive periods, pregnancy should be ruled out before continuing the contraceptive regimen. After several months on treatment, bleeding may be reduced to a point of virtual absence. This reduced flow may occur as a result of medication, in which event it is not indicative of pregnancy. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day. ( 2.1 ) • Tablets must be taken in the order directed on the blister pack. ( 2.1 ) • Do not skip or delay intake by more than 12 hours. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 How to Take Natazia To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, Natazia must be taken exactly as directed. Take one tablet by mouth at the same time every day. Tablets must be taken in the order directed on the blister pack. Tablets should not be skipped or intake delayed by more than 12 hours. For patient instructions for missed pills, see FDA-Approved Patient Labeling. 2.2 How to Start Natazia Instruct the patient to begin taking Natazia on Day 1 of her menstrual cycle (that is, the first day of her menstrual bleeding). See FDA-Approved Patient Labeling . Instruct the patient to use a non-hormonal contraceptive as back-up during the first 9 days. For postpartum women who do not breastfeed or after a second trimester abortion, start Natazia no earlier than 4 weeks postpartum due to the increased risk of thromboembolism. If the patient starts on Natazia postpartum and has not yet had a period, evaluate for possible pregnancy, and instruct her to use an additional method of contraception until she has taken Natazia for 9 consecutive days. The possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of medication should also be considered. If the patient is switching from a combination hormonal method such as: • Another pill • Vaginal ring • Patch • Instruct her to take the first dark yellow pill on the first day of her withdrawal bleed. She should not continue taking the pills from her previous birth control pack. If she does not have a withdrawal bleed, rule out pregnancy before starting Natazia. • If she previously used a vaginal ring or transdermal patch, she should start using Natazia on the day the ring or patch is removed. • Instruct the patient to use a non-hormonal back-up method such as a condom or spermicide for the first 9 days. If the patient is switching from a progestin-only method such as a: • Progestin-only pill • Implant • Intrauterine system • Injection • Instruct her to take the first dark yellow pill on the day she would have taken her next progestin-only pill or on the day of removal of her implant or intrauterine system or on the day when she would have had her next injection. 2.3 Advice in case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances In case of severe vomiting or diarrhea, absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken. If vomiting or diarrhea occurs within 3-4 hours after taking a colored tablet, this can be regarded as a missed tablet. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The compact tablet dispenser has been designed to make oral contraceptive dosing as easy and as convenient as possible. The tablets are arranged in either three or four rows of seven tablets each, with the days of the week appearing on the compact tablet dispenser above the first row of tablets. Note: Each compact tablet dispenser has been preprinted with the days of the week, starting with Sunday, to facilitate a Sunday-Start regimen. Six different day label stickers have been provided with the Detailed Patient & Brief Summary Patient Package Insert in order to accomodate a Day-1 Start regimen. If the patient is using the Day-1 Start regimen, she should place the self-adhesive day label sticker that corresponds to her starting day over the preprinted days. Dosage and Administration for 28-Day Dosage Regimen To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, Microgestin Fe 1.5/30 should be taken exactly as directed and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours. Microgestin Fe 1.5/30 provides a continuous administration regimen consisting of 21 yellow tablets of norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets and 7 brown non-hormone containing tablets of ferrous fumarate. The ferrous fumarate tablets are present to facilitate ease of drug administration via a 28-day regimen and do not serve any therapeutic purpose. There is no need for the patient to count days between cycles because there are no "off-tablet days.'' A. Sunday-Start Regimen: The patient begins taking the first yellow tablet from the top row of the dispenser (labeled Sunday) on the first Sunday after menstrual flow begins. When the menstrual flow begins on Sunday, the first yellow tablet is taken on the same day. The patient takes one yellow tablet daily for 21 days. The last yellow tablet in the dispenser will be taken on a Saturday. Upon completion of all 21 yellow tablets, and without interruption, the patient takes one brown tablet daily for 7 days. Upon completion of this first course of tablets, the patient begins a second course of 28-day tablets, without interruption, the next day (Sunday), starting with the Sunday yellow tablet in the top row. Adhering to this regimen of one yellow tablet daily for 21 days, followed without interruption by one brown tablet daily for seven days, the patient will start all subsequent cycles on a Sunday. Day-1 Start Regimen: The first day of menstrual flow is Day 1. The patient places the self-adhesive day label sticker that corresponds to her starting day over the preprinted days on the compact tablet dispenser. She starts taking one yellow tablet daily, beginning with the first yellow tablet in the top row. After the last yellow tablet (at the end of the third row) has been taken, the patient will then take the brown tablets for a week (7 days). For all subsequent cycles, the patient begins a new 28 tablet regimen on the eighth day after taking her last yellow tablet, again starting with the first tablet in the top row after placing the appropriate day label sticker over the preprinted days on the compact tablet dispenser. Following this regimen of 21 yellow tablets and 7 brown tablets, the patient will start all subsequent cycles on the same day of the week as the first course. Special Notes on Administration Menstruation usually begins two or three days, but may begin as late as the fourth or fifth day, after the brown tablets have been started. In any event, the next course of tablets should be started without interruption. If spotting occurs while the patient is taking yellow tablets, continue medication without interruption. If the patient forgets to take one or more yellow tablets, the following is suggested: One tablet is missed ● take tablet as soon as remembered ● take next tablet at the regular time Two consecutive tablets are missed (week 1 or week 2) ● take two tablets as soon as remembered ● take two tablets the next day ● use another birth control method for seven days following the missed tablets Two consecutive tablets are missed (week 3) Sunday-Start Regimen: ● take one tablet daily until Sunday ● discard remaining tablets ● start new pack of tablets immediately (Sunday) ● use another birth control method for seven days following the missed tablets Day-1 Start Regimen: ● discard remaining tablets ● start new pack of tablets that same day ● use another birth control method for seven days following the missed tablets Three (or more) consecutive tablets are missed Sunday-Start Regimen: ● take one tablet daily until Sunday ● discard remaining tablets ● start new pack of tablets immediately (Sunday) ● use another birth control method for seven days following the missed tablets Day-1 Start Regimen: ● discard remaining tablets ● start new pack of tablets that same day ● use another birth control method for seven days following the missed tablets The possibility of ovulation occurring increases with each successive day that scheduled yellow tablets are missed. While there is little likelihood of ovulation occurring if only one yellow tablet is missed, the possibility of spotting or bleeding is increased. This is particularly likely to occur if two or more consecutive yellow tablets are missed. If the patient forgets to take any of the seven brown tablets in week four, those brown tablets that were missed are discarded and one brown tablet is taken each day until the pack is empty. A back-up birth control method is not required during this time. A new pack of tablets should be started no later than the eighth day after the last yellow tablet was taken. In the rare case of bleeding which resembles menstruation, the patient should be advised to discontinue medication and then begin taking tablets from a new compact tablet dispenser on the next Sunday or the first day (Day-1), depending on her regimen.
Warnings: WARNINGS See BOXED WARNINGS . Systemic absorption may occur with the use of Estradiol Vaginal Cream, 0.01%. The warnings, precautions, and adverse reactions associated with oral estrogen treatment should be taken into account. 1. Cardiovascular Disorders An increased risk of stroke and DVT has been reported with estrogen-alone therapy. An increased risk of PE, DVT, stroke and MI has been reported with estrogen plus progestin therapy. Should any of these occur or be suspected, estrogen with or without progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. Risk factors for arterial vascular disease (e.g., hypertension, diabetes mellitus, tobacco use, hypercholesterolemia, and obesity) and/or venous thromboembolism (VTE) (e.g., personal history or family history of VTE, obesity, and systemic lupus erythematosus) should be managed appropriately. a. Stroke In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, a statistically significant increased risk of stroke was reported in women 50 to 79 years of age receiving daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone compared to women in the same age group receiving placebo (45 versus 33 per 10,000 women-years). The increase in risk was demonstrated in year one and persisted [see CLINICAL STUDIES ]. Should a stroke occur or be suspected, estrogen-alone therapy should be discontinued immediately. Subgroup analyses of women 50 to 59 years of age suggest no increased risk of stroke for those women receiving CE (0.625 mg)-alone versus those receiving placebo (18 versus 21 per 10,000 women-years) 3 . In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant increased risk of stroke was reported in women 50 to 79 years of age receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women in the same age group receiving placebo (33 versus 25 per 10,000 women-years) [see CLINICAL STUDIES ]. The increase in risk was demonstrated after the first year and persisted 3 . Should a stroke occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. b. Coronary Heart Disease In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, no overall effect on coronary heart disease (CHD) events (defined as nonfatal MI, silent MI and CHD death) was reported in women receiving estrogen-alone compared to placebo 4 [see CLINICAL STUDIES ]. Subgroup analyses of women 50 to 59 years of age suggest a statistically non-significant reduction in CHD events (CE [0.625 mg]-alone compared to placebo) in women with less than 10 years since menopause (8 versus 16 per 10,000 women-years) 3 . In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, there was a statistically non-significant increased risk of CHD events reported in women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (41 versus 34 per 10,000 women-years) 3 . An increase in relative risk was demonstrated in year 1, and a trend toward decreasing relative risk was reported in years 2 through 5 [see CLINICAL STUDIES ]. In postmenopausal women with documented heart disease (n = 2,763), average age 66.7 years of age, in a controlled clinical trial of secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease (Heart and Estrogen/Progestin Replacement Study; HERS), treatment with daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) demonstrated no cardiovascular benefit. During an average follow-up of 4.1 years, treatment with CE plus MPA did not reduce the overall rate of CHD events in postmenopausal women with established coronary heart disease. There were more CHD events in the CE plus MPA-treated group than in the placebo group in year 1, but not during the subsequent years. Two thousand, three hundred and twenty one (2,321) women from the original HERS trial agreed to participate in an open label extension of HERS, HERS II. Average follow-up in HERS II was an additional 2.7 years, for a total of 6.8 years overall. Rates of CHD events were comparable among women in the CE plus MPA group and the placebo group in HERS, HERS II, and overall. c. Venous Thromboembolism In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, the risk of VTE (DVT and PE) was increased for women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone compared to women receiving placebo (30 versus 22 per 10,000 women-years), although only the increased risk of DVT reached statistical significance (23 versus 15 per 10,000 women-years). The increase in VTE risk was demonstrated during the first 2 years 5 [see CLINICAL STUDIES ]. Should a VTE occur or be suspected, estrogen-alone therapy should be discontinued immediately. In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant 2-fold greater rate of VTE was reported in women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (35 versus 17 per 10,000 women-years). Statistically significant increases in risk for both DVT (26 versus 13 per 10,000 women-years) and PE (18 versus 8 per 10,000 women-years) were also demonstrated. The increase in VTE risk was observed during the first year and persisted 6 [see CLINICAL STUDIES ]. Should a VTE occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. If feasible, estrogens should be discontinued at least 4 to 6 weeks before surgery of the type associated with an increased risk of thromboembolism, or during periods of prolonged immobilization. 2. Malignant Neoplasms a. Endometrial Cancer An increased risk of endometrial cancer has been reported with the use of unopposed estrogen therapy in a woman with a uterus. The reported endometrial cancer risk among unopposed estrogen users is about 2- to 12-times greater than in non-users, and appears dependent on duration of treatment and on estrogen dose. Most studies show no significant increased risk associated with use of estrogens for less than one year. The greatest risk appears associated with prolonged use, with increased risks of 15- to 24-fold for five to ten years or more and this risk has been shown to persist for at least 8 to 15 years after estrogen therapy is discontinued. Clinical surveillance of all women using estrogen-alone or estrogen plus progestin therapy is important. Adequate diagnostic measures, including directed or random endometrial sampling when indicated, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding. There is no evidence that the use of natural estrogens results in a different endometrial risk profile than synthetic estrogens of equivalent estrogen dose. Adding a progestin to estrogen therapy has been shown to reduce the risk of endometrial hyperplasia, which may be a precursor to endometrial cancer. Breast Cancer The most important randomized clinical trial providing information about breast cancer in estrogen-alone users is the WHI substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone. In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, after an average follow-up of 7.1 years, daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone was not associated with an increased risk of invasive breast cancer (relative risk [RR] 0.80) 7 [see CLINICAL STUDIES ]. The most important randomized clinical trial providing information about breast cancer in estrogen plus progestin users is the WHI substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg). After a mean follow-up of 5.6 years, the estrogen plus progestin substudy reported an increased risk of invasive breast cancer in women who took daily CE plus MPA. In this substudy, prior use of estrogen-alone or estrogen plus progestin therapy was reported by 26 percent of the women. The relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.24, and the absolute risk was 41 versus 33 cases per 10,000 women-years, for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. Among women who reported prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.86, and the absolute risk was 46 versus 25 cases per 10,000 women-years, for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. Among women who reported no prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.09, and the absolute risk was 40 versus 36 cases per 10,000 women-years, for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. In the same substudy, invasive breast cancers were larger, were more likely to be node positive, and were diagnosed at a more advanced stage in the CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) group compared with the placebo group. Metastatic disease was rare with no apparent difference between the two groups. Other prognostic factors such as histologic subtype, grade and hormone receptor status did not differ between the groups 8 [see CLINICAL STUDIES ]. Consistent with the WHI clinical trial, observational studies have also reported an increased risk of breast cancer for estrogen plus progestin therapy, and a smaller increased risk for estrogen-alone therapy, after several years of use. One large meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies reported increased risks that were dependent upon duration of use and could last up to >10 years after discontinuation of estrogen plus progestin therapy and estrogen-alone therapy. Extension of the WHI trials also demonstrated increased breast cancer risk associated with estrogen plus progestin therapy. Observational studies also suggest that the risk of breast cancer was greater, and became apparent earlier, with estrogen plus progestin therapy as compared to estrogen-alone therapy. However, these studies have not generally found significant variation in the risk of breast cancer among different estrogen plus progestin combinations, doses, or routes of administration. The use of estrogen-alone and estrogen plus progestin therapy has been reported to result in an increase in abnormal mammograms requiring further evaluation. All women should receive yearly breast examinations by a healthcare provider and perform monthly breast self-examinations. In addition, mammography examinations should be scheduled based on patient age, risk factors, and prior mammogram results. Ovarian Cancer The WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy reported a statistically non-significant increased risk of ovarian cancer. After an average follow-up of 5.6 years, the relative risk for ovarian cancer for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 1.58 (95 percent CI, 0.77-3.24). The absolute risk for CE plus MPA was 4 versus 3 cases per 10,000 women-years 9 . A meta-analysis of 17 prospective and 35 retrospective epidemiology studies found that women who used hormonal therapy for menopausal symptoms had an increased risk for ovarian cancer. The primary analysis, using case-control comparisons, included 12,110 cancer cases from the 17 prospective studies. The relative risks associated with current use of hormonal therapy was 1.41 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.32 to 1.50); there was no difference in the risk estimates by duration of the exposure (less than 5 years [median of 3 years] vs. greater than 5 years [median of 10 years] of use before the cancer diagnosis). The relative risk associated with combined current and recent use (discontinued use within 5 years before cancer diagnosis) was 1.37 (95% CI 1.27-1.48), and the elevated risk was significant for both estrogen-alone and estrogen plus progestin products. The exact duration of hormone therapy use associated with an increased risk of ovarian cancer, however, is unknown. 3. Probable Dementia In the WHIMS estrogen-alone ancillary study of WHI, a population of 2,947 hysterectomized women 65 to 79 years of age was randomized to daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone or placebo. After an average follow-up of 5.2 years, 28 women in the estrogen-alone group and 19 women in the placebo group were diagnosed with probable dementia. The relative risk of probable dementia for CE-alone versus placebo was 1.49 (95 percent CI, 0.83-2.66). The absolute risk of probable dementia for CE-alone versus placebo was 37 versus 25 cases per 10,000 women-years 10 [see CLINICAL STUDIES and PRECAUTIONS, Geriatric Use ]. In the WHIMS estrogen plus progestin ancillary study, a population of 4,532 postmenopausal women 65 to 79 years of age was randomized to daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) or placebo. After an average follow-up of 4 years, 40 women in the CE plus MPA group and 21 women in the placebo group were diagnosed with probable dementia. The relative risk of probable dementia for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 2.05 (95 percent CI, 1.21-3.48). The absolute risk of probable dementia for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 45 versus 22 cases per 10,000 women-years 10 [see CLINICAL STUDIES and PRECAUTIONS, Geriatric Use ]. When data from the two populations in the WHIMS estrogen-alone and estrogen plus progestin ancillary studies were pooled as planned in the WHIMS protocol, the reported overall relative risk for probable dementia was 1.76 (95 percent CI, 1.19-2.60). Since both ancillary studies were conducted in women 65 to 79 years of age, it is unknown whether these findings apply to younger postmenopausal women 10 [see PRECAUTIONS, Geriatric Use ]. 4. Gallbladder Disease A 2- to 4-fold increase in the risk of gallbladder disease requiring surgery in postmenopausal women receiving estrogens has been reported. 5. Hypercalcemia Estrogen administration may lead to severe hypercalcemia in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases. If hypercalcemia occurs, use of the drug should be stopped and appropriate measures taken to reduce the serum calcium level. 6. Visual Abnormalities Retinal vascular thrombosis has been reported in patients receiving estrogens. Discontinue medication pending examination if there is sudden partial or complete loss of vision, or a sudden onset of proptosis, diplopia, or migraine. If examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions, estrogens should be permanently discontinued. 7. Anaphylactic Reaction and Angioedema Cases of anaphylaxis, which develop within minutes to hours after taking orally-administered estrogen and require emergency medical management, have been reported in the postmarketing setting. Skin (hives, pruritis, swollen lips-tongue-face) and either respiratory tract (respiratory compromise) or gastrointestinal tract (abdominal pain, vomiting) involvement has been noted. Angioedema involving the tongue, larynx, face, hands and feet requiring medical intervention has occurred postmarketing in patients taking orally-administered estrogen. If angioedema involves the tongue, glottis, or larynx, airway obstruction may occur. Patients who develop an anaphylactic reaction with or without angioedema after treatment with oral estrogen should not receive oral estrogen again. 8. Hereditary Angioedema Exogenous estrogens may exacerbate symptoms of angioedema in women with hereditary angioedema. See BOXED WARNINGS. Cardiovascular disorders Estrogen and estrogen/progestin therapy has been associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events such as myocardial infarction and stroke, as well as venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism (venous thromboembolism or VTE). Should any of these occur or be suspected estrogens should be discontinued immediately. Risk factors for arterial vascular disease (e.g., hypertension, diabetes mellitus, tobacco use, hypercholesterolemia, and obesity) and/or venous thromboembolism (e.g., personal history or family history of VTE, obesity, and systemic lupus erythematosus) should be managed appropriately. Coronary heart disease and stroke In the Women’s Health Initiative (WHI) study, an increase in the number of myocardial infarctions and strokes has been observed in women receiving CE compared to placebo. These observations are preliminary, and the study is continuing (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, CLINICAL STUDIES). In the CE/MPA substudy of WHI, an increased risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) events (defined as nonfatal myocardial infarction and CHD death) was observed in women receiving CE/MPA compared to women receiving placebo (37 vs 30 per 10,000 women-years). The increase in risk was observed in year one and persisted. In the same substudy of WHI, an increased risk of stroke was observed in women receiving CE/MPA compared to women receiving placebo (29 vs 21 per 10,000 women-years). The increase in risk was observed after the first year and persisted. In postmenopausal women with documented heart disease (n = 2,763, average age 66.7 years) a controlled clinical trial of secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease (Heart and Estrogen/Progestin Replacement Study; HERS) treatment with CE/MPA (0.625 mg/2.5 mg per day) demonstrated no cardiovascular benefit. During an average follow-up of 4.1 years, treatment with CE/MPA did not reduce the overall rate of CHD events in postmenopausal women with established coronary heart disease. There were more CHD events in the CE/MPA-treated group than in the placebo group in year 1, but not during the subsequent years. Two thousand three hundred and twenty one women from the original HERS trial agreed to participate in an open label extension of HERS, HERS II. Rates of CHD events were comparable among women in the CE/MPA group and the placebo group in HERS, HERS II, and overall. Large doses of estrogen (5 mg conjugated estrogens per day), comparable to those used to treat cancer of the prostate and breast, have been shown in a large prospective clinical trial in men to increase the risks of nonfatal myocardial infarction, pulmonary embolism, and thrombophlebitis. Venous thromboembolism (VTE) In the Women’s Health Initiative (WHI) study, an increase in VTE has been observed in women receiving CE compared to placebo. In the CE/MPA substudy of WHI, a 2-fold greater rate of VTE, including deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, was observed in women receiving CE/MPA compared to women receiving placebo. The rate of VTE was 34 per 10,000 women-years in the CE/MPA group compared to 16 per 10,000 women-years in the placebo group. The increase in VTE risk was observed during the first year and persisted. Endometrial cancer The use of unopposed estrogens in women with intact uteri has been associated with an increased risk of endometrial cancer. The reported endometrial cancer risk among unopposed estrogen users is about 2- to 12-fold greater than in non-users, and appears dependent on duration of treatment and on estrogen dose. The greatest risk appears associated with prolonged use with increased risks of 15- to 24-fold for five to ten years or more and this risk persists for 8 to over 15 years after estrogen therapy is discontinued. Clinical surveillance of all women taking estrogen/progestin combinations is important (see PRECAUTIONS). Adequate diagnostic measures, including endometrial sampling when indicated, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in all cases of undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal vaginal bleeding. Breast cancer The use of estrogens and progestins by postmenopausal women has been reported to increase the risk of breast cancer. The most important randomized clinical trial providing information about this issue is the Women’s Health Initiative (WHI) substudy of CE/MPA (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, CLINICAL STUDIES). The results from observational studies are generally consistent with those of the WHI clinical trial and report no significant variation in the risk of breast cancer among different estrogens or progestins, doses, or routes of administration. The CE/MPA substudy of WHI reported an increased risk of breast cancer in women who took CE/MPA for a mean follow-up of 5.6 years. Observational studies have also reported an increased risk for estrogen/progestin combination therapy, and a smaller increased risk for estrogen alone therapy, after several years of use. In the WHI trial and from observational studies, the excess risk increased with duration of use. From observational studies, the risk appeared to return to baseline in about five years after stopping treatment. In addition, observational studies suggest that the risk of breast cancer was greater, and became apparent earlier, with estrogen/progestin combination therapy as compared to estrogen alone therapy. In the CE/MPA substudy, 26% of the women reported prior use of estrogen alone and/or estrogen/progestin combination hormone therapy. After a mean follow-up of 5.6 years during the clinical trial, the overall relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.24 (95% confidence interval 1.01 to 1.54), and the overall absolute risk was 41 vs 33 cases per 10,000 women-years, for CE/MPA compared with placebo. Among women who reported prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.86, and the absolute risk was 46 vs 25 cases per 10,000 women-years, for CE/MPA compared with placebo. Among women who reported no prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.09, and the absolute risk was 40 vs 36 cases per 10,000 women-years for CE/MPA compared with placebo. In the same substudy, invasive breast cancers were larger and diagnosed at a more advanced stage in the CE/MPA group compared with the placebo group. Other prognostic factors such as histologic subtype, grade and hormone receptor status did not differ between the groups. The use of estrogen plus progestin has been reported to result in an increase in abnormal mammograms requiring further evaluation. The absolute risk for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 4 versus 3 cases per 10,000 women-years. Dementia In the Women’s Health Initiative Memory Study (WHIMS), 4,532 generally healthy postmenopausal women 65 years of age and older were studied, of whom 35% were 70 to 74 years of age and 18% were 75 or older. After an average follow-up of 4 years, 40 women being treated with CE/MPA (1.8%, n = 2,229) and 21 women in the placebo group (0.9%, n = 2,303) received diagnoses of probable dementia. The relative risk for CE/MPA versus placebo was 2.05 (95% confidence interval 1.21 – 3.48), and was similar for women with and without histories of menopausal hormone use before WHIMS. The absolute risk of probable dementia for CE/MPA versus placebo was 45 versus 22 cases per 10,000 women-years, and the absolute excess risk for CE/MPA was 23 cases per 10,000 women-years. It is unknown whether these findings apply to younger postmenopausal women (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, CLINICAL STUDIES and PRECAUTIONS, GERIATRIC USE). It is unknown whether these findings apply to estrogen alone therapy. Discontinue medication pending examination if there is sudden partial or complete loss of vision, or a sudden onset of proptosis, diplopia or migraine. Systemic absorption may occur with the use of Estradiol Vaginal Cream 0.01%. Malignant N eoplasms a. Endometrial C ancer An increased risk of endometrial cancer has been reported with the use of unopposed estrogen therapy in a woman with a uterus. Breast C ancer The most important randomized clinical trial providing information about breast cancer in estrogen-alone users is the WHI substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone. The risk increased with duration of use, and appeared to return to baseline in about 5 years after stopping treatment (only the observational studies have substantial data on risk after stopping). Gallbladder D isease A 2- to 4-fold increase in the risk of gallbladder disease requiring surgery in postmenopausal women receiving estrogens has been reported. Visual A bnormalities Retinal vascular thrombosis has been reported in patients receiving estrogens. Skin (hives, pruritus, swollen lips-tongue-face) and either respiratory tract (respiratory compromise) or gastrointestinal tract (abdominal pain, vomiting) involvement has been noted. WARNINGS Consult a doctor if condition worsens or if symptoms persist. Keep out of the reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a poison control center right away. If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a healthcare professional before use. WARNINGS The use of oral contraceptives is associated with increased risks of several serious conditions including myocardial infarction, thromboembolism, stroke, hepatic neoplasia, and gallbladder disease, although the risk of serious morbidity or mortality is very small in healthy women without underlying risk factors. The risk of morbidity and mortality increases significantly in the presence of other underlying risk factors such as hypertension, hyperlipidemias, obesity, and diabetes. Practitioners prescribing oral contraceptives should be familiar with the following information relating to these risks. The information contained in this package insert is principally based on studies carried out in patients who used oral contraceptives with higher formulations of estrogens and progestogens than those in common use today. The effect of long-term use of the oral contraceptives with lower formulations of both estrogens and progestogens remains to be determined. Throughout this labeling, epidemiological studies reported are of two types: retrospective or case control studies and prospective or cohort studies. Case control studies provide a measure of the relative risk of a disease, namely, a ratio of the incidence of a disease among oral contraceptive users to that among nonusers. The relative risk does not provide information on the actual clinical occurrence of a disease. Cohort studies provide a measure of attributable risk, which is the difference in the incidence of disease between oral contraceptive users and nonusers. The attributable risk does provide information about the actual occurrence of a disease in the population (adapted from References 8 and 9 with the author’s permission). For further information, the reader is referred to a text on epidemiological methods. Thromboembolic Disorders and Other Vascular Problems a. Myocardial infarction An increased risk of myocardial infarction has been attributed to oral contraceptive use. This risk is primarily in smokers or women with other underlying risk factors for coronary artery disease such as hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, morbid obesity, and diabetes. The relative risk of heart attack for current oral contraceptive users has been estimated to be two to six (10 - 16). The risk is very low under the age of 30. Smoking in combination with oral contraceptive use has been shown to contribute substantially to the incidence of myocardial infarctions in women in their mid-thirties or older with smoking accounting for the majority of excess cases (17). Mortality rates associated with circulatory disease have been shown to increase substantially in smokers over the age of 35 and non-smokers over the age of 40 (Table II) among women who use oral contraceptives. Oral contraceptives may compound the effects of well-known risk factors, such as hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemias, age and obesity (19). In particular, some progestogens are known to decrease HDL cholesterol and cause glucose intolerance, while estrogens may create a state of hyperinsulinism (20 - 24). Oral contraceptives have been shown to increase blood pressure among users (see section 9 in WARNINGS ). Similar effects on risk factors have been associated with an increased risk of heart disease. Oral contraceptives must be used with caution in women with cardiovascular disease risk factors. table2 b. Thromboembolism An increased risk of thromboembolic and thrombotic disease associated with the use of oral contraceptives is well established. Case control studies have found the relative risk of users compared to non-users to be 3 for the first episode of superficial venous thrombosis, 4 to 11 for deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism, and 1.5 to 6 for women with predisposing conditions for venous thromboembolic disease (9, 10, 25 - 30). Cohort studies have shown the relative risk to be somewhat lower, about 3 for new cases and about 4.5 for new cases requiring hospitalization (31). The risk of thromboembolic disease due to oral contraceptives is not related to length of use and disappears after pill use is stopped (8). A two- to four-fold increase in relative risk of postoperative thromboembolic complications has been reported with the use of oral contraceptives (15,32). The relative risk of venous thrombosis in women who have predisposing conditions is twice that of women without such medical conditions (15,32). If feasible, oral contraceptives should be discontinued at least four weeks prior to and for two weeks after elective surgery of a type associated with an increase in risk of thromboembolism and during and following prolonged immobilization. Since the immediate postpartum period is also associated with an increased risk of thromboembolism, oral contraceptives should be started no earlier than four to six weeks after delivery in women who elect not to breastfeed. Cerebrovascular disease Oral contraceptives have been shown to increase both the relative and attributable risks of cerebrovascular events (thrombotic and hemorrhagic strokes), although, in general, the risk is greatest among older (greater than 35 years), hypertensive women who also smoke. Hypertension was found to be a risk factor for both users and nonusers, for both types of strokes, while smoking interacted to increase the risk for hemorrhagic strokes (33 - 35). In a large study, the relative risk of thrombotic strokes has been shown to range from 3 for normotensive users to 14 for users with severe hypertension (36). The relative risk of hemorrhagic stroke is reported to be 1.2 for non-smokers who used oral contraceptives, 2.6 for smokers who did not use oral contraceptives, 7.6 for smokers who used oral contraceptives, 1.8 for normotensive users, and 25.7 for users with severe hypertension (36). The attributable risk is also greater in older women (9). d. Dose-related risk of vascular disease from oral contraceptives A positive association has been observed between the amount of estrogen and progestogen in oral contraceptives and the risk of vascular disease (37 - 39). A decline in serum high-density lipoproteins (HDL) has been reported with many progestational agents (20 - 22). A decline in serum high-density lipoproteins has been associated with an increased incidence of ischemic heart disease. Because estrogens increase HDL cholesterol, the net effect of an oral contraceptive depends on a balance achieved between doses of estrogen and progestin and the nature of the progestin used in the contraceptives. The amount and activity of both hormones should be considered in the choice of an oral contraceptive. Minimizing exposure to estrogen and progestogen is in keeping with good principles of therapeutics. For any particular oral contraceptive, the dosage regimen prescribed should be one which contains the least amount of estrogen and progestogen that is compatible with the needs of the individual patient. New acceptors of oral contraceptive agents should be started on preparations containing the lowest dose of estrogen which produces satisfactory results for the patient. e. Persistence of risk of vascular disease There are two studies which have shown persistence of risk of vascular disease for ever-users of oral contraceptives. In a study in the United States, the risk of developing myocardial infarction after discontinuing oral contraceptives persists for at least 9 years for women 40 to 49 years who had used oral contraceptives for 5 or more years, but this increased risk was not demonstrated in other age groups (14). In another study in Great Britain, the risk of developing cerebrovascular disease persisted for at least 6 years after discontinuation of oral contraceptives, although excess risk was very small (40). However, both studies were performed with oral contraceptive formulations containing 50 mcg or higher of estrogens. Estimates of Mortality from Contraceptive Use One study gathered data from a variety of sources which have estimated the mortality rate associated with different methods of contraception at different ages (Table III). These estimates include the combined risk of death associated with contraceptive methods plus the risk attributable to pregnancy in the event of method failure. Each method of contraception has its specific benefits and risks. The study concluded that with the exception of oral contraceptive users 35 and older who smoke and 40 and older who do not smoke, mortality associated with all methods of birth control is low and below that associated with childbirth. The observation of a possible increase in risk of mortality with age for oral contraceptive users is based on data gathered in the 1970’s but not reported until 1983 (41). However, current clinical practice involves the use of lower estrogen dose formulations combined with careful restriction of oral contraceptive use to women who do not have the various risk factors listed in this labeling. Because of these changes in practice and, also, because of some limited new data which suggest that the risk of cardiovascular disease with the use of oral contraceptives may now be less than previously observed (Porter JB, Hunter J, Jick H, et al. Oral contraceptives and nonfatal vascular disease. Obstet Gynecol 1985;66:1-4; and Porter JB, Hershel J, Walker AM. Mortality among oral contraceptive users. Obstet Gynecol 1987;70:29-32), the Fertility and Maternal Health Drugs Advisory Committee was asked to review the topic in 1989. The Committee concluded that although cardiovascular disease risks may be increased with oral contraceptive use after age 40 in healthy non-smoking women (even with the newer low-dose formulations), there are greater potential health risks associated with pregnancy in older women and with the alternative surgical and medical procedures which may be necessary if such women do not have access to effective and acceptable means of contraception. Therefore, the Committee recommended that the benefits of oral contraceptive use by healthy non-smoking women over 40 may outweigh the possible risks. Of course, older women, as all women who take oral contraceptives, should take the lowest possible dose formulation that is effective. TABLE III ANNUAL NUMBER OF BIRTH-RELATED OR METHOD-RELATED DEATHS ASSOCIATED WITH CONTROL OF FERTILITY PER 100,000 NONSTERILE WOMEN BY FERTILITY CONTROL METHOD ACCORDING TO AGE Method of control and outcome 15 to 19 20 to 24 25 to 29 30 to 34 35 to 39 40 to 44 No fertility control methods 7 7.4 9.1 14.8 25.7 28.2 Oral contraceptives non-smoker** 0.3 0.5 0.9 1.9 13.8 31.6 Oral contraceptives smoker** 2.2 3.4 6.6 13.5 51.1 117.2 IUD** 0.8 0.8 1 1 1.4 1.4 Condom* 1.1 1.6 0.7 0.2 0.3 0.4 Diaphragm/spermicide* 1.9 1.2 1.2 1.3 2.2 2.8 Periodic abstinence* 2.5 1.6 1.6 1.7 2.9 3.6 *Deaths are birth related. **Deaths are method related Adapted from H.W. Ory, Reference 41. Malignant Neoplasms Breast Cancer Norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets are contraindicated in females who currently have or have had breast cancer because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Epidemiology studies have not found a consistent association between use of combined oral contraceptives (COCs) and breast cancer risk. Studies do not show an association between ever (current or past) use of COCs and risk of breast cancer. However, some studies report a small increase in the risk of breast cancer among current or recent users (<6 months since last use) and current users with longer duration of COC use (see ADVERSE REACTIONS , Postmarketing Experience). Cervical Cancer Some studies suggest that oral contraceptive use has been associated with an increase in the risk of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia in some populations of women (42-45). However, there continues to be controversy about the extent to which such findings may be due to differences in sexual behavior and other factors. Hepatic Neoplasia Benign hepatic adenomas are associated with oral contraceptive use, although the incidence of benign tumors is rare in the United States. Indirect calculations have estimated the attributable risk to be in the range of 3.3 cases/100,000 for users, a risk that increases after four or more years of use (46). Rupture of rare, benign, hepatic adenomas may cause death through intra-abdominal hemorrhage (47,48). Studies from Britain have shown an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma (49 - 51) in long-term (greater than 8 years) oral contraceptive users. However, these cancers are extremely rare in the U.S., and the attributable risk (the excess incidence) of liver cancers in oral contraceptive users approaches less than one per million users. Risk of Liver Enzyme Elevations with Concomitant Hepatitis C Treatment During clinical trials with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen that contains ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, ALT elevations greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN), including some cases greater than 20 times the ULN, were significantly more frequent in women using ethinyl estradiol-containing medications such as COCs. Discontinue norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets prior to starting therapy with the combination drug regimen ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets can be restarted approximately 2 weeks following completion of treatment with the combination drug regimen. Ocular Lesions There have been clinical case reports of retinal thrombosis associated with the use of oral contraceptives. Oral contraceptives should be discontinued if there is unexplained partial or complete loss of vision; onset of proptosis or diplopia; papilledema; or retinal vascular lesions. Appropriate diagnostic and therapeutic measures should be undertaken immediately. Oral Contraceptive Use Before and During Early Pregnancy Extensive epidemiological studies have revealed no increased risk of birth defects in women who have used oral contraceptives prior to pregnancy (52 to 54). Studies also do not suggest a teratogenic effect, particularly insofar as cardiac anomalies and limb reduction defects are concerned (52,53,55,56), when taken inadvertently during early pregnancy. The administration of oral contraceptives to induce withdrawal bleeding should not be used as a test for pregnancy. Oral contraceptives should not be used during pregnancy to treat threatened or habitual abortion. It is recommended that for any patient who has missed two consecutive periods, pregnancy should be ruled out before continuing oral contraceptive use. If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed schedule, the possibility of pregnancy should be considered at the time of the first missed period. Oral contraceptive use should be discontinued if pregnancy is confirmed. Gallbladder Disease Earlier studies have reported an increased lifetime relative risk of gallbladder surgery in users of oral contraceptives and estrogens (57,58). More recent studies, however, have shown that the relative risk of developing gallbladder disease among oral contraceptive users may be minimal (59 to 61). The recent findings of minimal risk may be related to the use of oral contraceptive formulations containing lower hormonal doses of estrogens and progestogens. 9. Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Oral contraceptives have been shown to cause glucose intolerance in a significant percentage of users (23). Oral contraceptives containing greater than 75 mcg of estrogens cause hyperinsulinism, while lower doses of estrogen cause less glucose intolerance (62). Progestogens increase insulin secretion and create insulin resistance, this effect varying with different progestational agents (23,63). However, in the non-diabetic woman, oral contraceptives appear to have no effect on fasting blood glucose (64). Because of these demonstrated effects, prediabetic and diabetic women should be carefully observed while taking oral contraceptives. A small proportion of women will have persistent hypertriglyceridemia while on the pill. As discussed earlier (see WARNINGS 1a. and 1d . ), changes in serum triglycerides and lipoprotein levels have been reported in oral contraceptive users. 10. Elevated Blood Pressure An increase in blood pressure has been reported in women taking oral contraceptives (65) and this increase is more likely in older oral contraceptive users (66) and with continued use (65). Data from the Royal College of General Practitioners (18) and subsequent randomized trials have shown that the incidence of hypertension increases with increasing concentrations of progestogens. Women with a history of hypertension or hypertension-related diseases or renal disease (67) should be encouraged to use another method of contraception. If women elect to use oral contraceptives, they should be monitored closely, and if significant elevation of blood pressure occurs, oral contraceptives should be discontinued. For most women, elevated blood pressure will return to normal after stopping oral contraceptives (66), and there is no difference in the occurrence of hypertension among ever and never users (65,67,68). 11. Headache The onset or exacerbation of migraine or development of headache with a new pattern which is recurrent, persistent, or severe requires discontinuation of oral contraceptives and evaluation of the cause. 12. Bleeding Irregularities Breakthrough bleeding and spotting are sometimes encountered in patients on oral contraceptives, especially during the first three months of use. Non-hormonal causes should be considered, and adequate diagnostic measures taken to rule out malignancy or pregnancy in the event of breakthrough bleeding, as in the case of any abnormal vaginal bleeding. If pathology has been excluded, time or a change to another formulation may solve the problem. In the event of amenorrhea, pregnancy should be ruled out. Some women may encounter post-pill amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea, especially when such a condition was preexistent. 13. Hereditary Angioedema In women with hereditary angioedema, exogenous estrogens may induce or exacerbate symptoms of angioedema. 14. Depression Carefully observe women with a history of depression and discontinue Hailey 1.5/30 if depression recurs to a serious degree. The attributable risk does provide information about the actual occurrence of a disease in the population (adapted from References 8 and 9 with the author's permission). The relative risk of heart attack for current oral contraceptive users has been estimated to be two to six ( 10-16 ). Smoking in combination with oral contraceptive use has been shown to contribute substantially to the incidence of myocardial infarctions in women in their mid-thirties or older with smoking accounting for the majority of excess cases ( 17 ). Oral contraceptives may compound the effects of well-known risk factors, such as hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemias, age and obesity ( 19 ). In particular, some progestogens are known to decrease HDL cholesterol and cause glucose intolerance, while estrogens may create a state of hyperinsulinism ( 20-24 ). 4 b. Case control studies have found the relative risk of users compared to non-users to be 3 for the first episode of superficial venous thrombosis, 4 to 11 for deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism, and 1.5 to 6 for women with predisposing conditions for venous thromboembolic disease ( 9,10, 25-30 ). Cohort studies have shown the relative risk to be somewhat lower, about 3 for new cases and about 4.5 for new cases requiring hospitalization ( 31 ). The risk of thromboembolic disease due to oral contraceptives is not related to length of use and disappears after pill use is stopped ( 8 ). A two- to four-fold increase in relative risk of postoperative thromboembolic complications has been reported with the use of oral contraceptives ( 15,32 ). The relative risk of venous thrombosis in women who have predisposing conditions is twice that of women without such medical conditions ( 15,32 ). Hypertension was found to be a risk factor for both users and nonusers, for both types of strokes, while smoking interacted to increase the risk for hemorrhagic strokes ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. ). In a large study, the relative risk of thrombotic strokes has been shown to range from 3 for normotensive users to 14 for users with severe hypertension ( 36 ). The relative risk of hemorrhagic stroke is reported to be 1.2 for non-smokers who used oral contraceptives, 2.6 for smokers who did not use oral contraceptives, 7.6 for smokers who used oral contraceptives, 1.8 for normotensive users, and 25.7 for users with severe hypertension ( 36 ). The attributable risk is also greater in older women ( 9 ). Dose-related risk of vascular disease from oral contraceptives A positive association has been observed between the amount of estrogen and progestogen in oral contraceptives and the risk of vascular disease ( 37-39 ). A decline in serum high-density lipoproteins (HDL) has been reported with many progestational agents ( 20-22 ). In a study in the United States, the risk of developing myocardial infarction after discontinuing oral contraceptives persists for at least 9 years for women 40-49 years who had used oral contraceptives for 5 or more years, but this increased risk was not demonstrated in other age groups ( 14 ). In another study in Great Britain, the risk of developing cerebrovascular disease persisted for at least 6 years after discontinuation of oral contraceptives, although excess risk was very small ( 40 ). The observation of a possible increase in risk of mortality with age for oral contraceptive users is based on data gathered in the 1970's but not reported until 1983 ( 41 ). 5 3. Carcinoma of the Reproductive Organs Numerous epidemiological studies have been performed on the incidence of breast, endometrial, ovarian, and cervical cancer in women using oral contraceptives. Most of the studies on breast cancer and oral contraceptive use report that the use of oral contraceptives is not associated with an increase in the risk of developing breast cancer ( 42,44,89 ). Some studies have reported an increased risk of developing breast cancer in certain subgroups of oral contraceptive users, but the findings reported in these studies are not consistent ( 43,45-49,85-88 ). Some studies suggest that oral contraceptive use has been associated with an increase in the risk of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia in some populations of women ( 51-54 ). In spite of many studies of the relationship between oral contraceptive use and breast and cervical cancers, a cause and effect relationship has not been established. Indirect calculations have estimated the attributable risk to be in the range of 3.3 cases/100,000 for users, a risk that increases after four or more years of use ( 55 ). Rupture of rare, benign, hepatic adenomas may cause death through intra-abdominal hemorrhage ( 56,57 ). Studies from Britain have shown an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma ( 58-60 ) in long-term (greater than 8 years) oral contraceptive users. Discontinue Microgestin Fe 1.5/30 prior to starting therapy with the combination drug regimen ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir [see Contraindications (4) ]. Microgestin Fe 1.5/30 can be restarted approximately 2 weeks following completion of treatment with the combination drug regimen. Oral Contraceptive Use Before and During Early Pregnancy Extensive epidemiological studies have revealed no increased risk of birth defects in women who have used oral contraceptives prior to pregnancy ( 61-63 ). Studies also do not suggest a teratogenic effect, particularly insofar as cardiac anomalies and limb reduction defects are concerned ( 61,62,64,65 ), when taken inadvertently during early pregnancy. Gallbladder Disease Earlier studies have reported an increased lifetime relative risk of gallbladder surgery in users of oral contraceptives and estrogens ( 66,67 ). More recent studies, however, have shown that the relative risk of developing gallbladder disease among oral contraceptive users may be minimal ( 68-70 ). Carbohydrate And Lipid Metabolic Effects Oral contraceptives have been shown to cause glucose intolerance in a significant percentage of users ( 23 ). Oral contraceptives containing greater than 75 mcg of estrogens cause hyperinsulinism, while lower doses of estrogen cause less glucose intolerance ( 71 ). Progestogens increase insulin secretion and create insulin resistance, this effect varying with different progestational agents ( 23,72 ). However, in the non-diabetic woman, oral contraceptives appear to have no effect on fasting blood glucose ( 73 ). and 1d. Elevated Blood Pressure An increase in blood pressure has been reported in women taking oral contraceptives ( 74 ) and this increase is more likely in older oral contraceptive users ( 75 ) and with continued use ( 74 ). Data from the Royal College of General Practitioners ( 18 ) and subsequent randomized trials have shown that the incidence of hypertension increases with increasing concentrations of progestogens. Women with a history of hypertension or hypertension-related diseases or renal disease ( 76 ) should be encouraged to use another method of contraception. For most women, elevated blood pressure will return to normal after stopping oral contraceptives ( 75 ), and there is no difference in the occurrence of hypertension among ever and never users ( 74,76,77 ). 3
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Iclevia is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions: A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases. Examples include females who are known to: Smoke, if over age 35 [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Have current or history of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Have cerebrovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Have coronary artery disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart (for example, subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease, or atrial fibrillation) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Have uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Have diabetes mellitus and are over age of 35, diabetes mellitus with hypertension or vascular disease or other end-organ damage, or diabetes mellitus of >20 years duration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms, migraine headaches with aura, or over age 35 with any migraine headaches [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Current diagnosis of, or history of breast cancer, which may be hormone sensitive [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ]. Liver tumors, acute viral hepatitis, or severe (decompensated) cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) Liver tumors or liver disease, acute viral hepatitis or decompensated cirrhosis ( 4 ) Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) Breast cancer ( 4 ) Co-administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sprintec is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions: A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases. Examples include women who are known to: Smoke, if over age 35 [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Have deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism, now or in the past [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Have cerebrovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Have coronary artery disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart (for example, subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease, or atrial fibrillation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Have uncontrolled hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] Have diabetes mellitus with vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or migraine headaches with aura [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] Women over age 35 with any migraine headaches [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] Liver tumors, benign or malignant, or liver disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] Current diagnosis of, or history of, breast cancer, which may be hormone-sensitive [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) Liver tumors or liver disease ( 4 ) Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) Breast cancer ( 4 ) Coadministration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Estradiol Vaginal Cream, 0.01% should not be used in women with any of the following conditions: 1. Undiagnosed abnormal genital bleeding. 2. Known, suspected, or history of cancer of the breast. 3. Known or suspected estrogen-dependent neoplasia. 4. Active DVT, PE or history of these conditions. 5. Active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke, MI) or a history of these conditions. 6. Known anaphylactic reaction or angioedema to Estradiol Vaginal Cream, 0.01%. 7. Known liver dysfunction or disease. 8. Known protein C, protein S, or antithrombin deficiency, or other known thrombophilic disorders. 9. Known or suspected pregnancy. Estrogens should not be used in individuals with any of the following conditions: 1. Known, suspected or history of cancer of the breast except in appropriately selected patients being treated for metastatic disease. Active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Active or recent (e.g., within the past year) arterial thromboembolic disease (e.g., stroke, myocardial infarction). Liver dysfunction or disease. Estradiol tablets should not be used in patients with known hypersensitivity to its ingredients. There is no indication for estradiol tablets in pregnancy. There appears to be little or no increased risk of birth defects in children born to women who have used estrogens and progestins from oral contraceptives inadvertently during early pregnancy (See PRECAUTIONS). CONTRAINDICATIONS Estradiol Vaginal Cream 0.01% should not be used in women with any of the following conditions: Undiagnosed abnormal genital bleeding. Known anaphylactic reaction or angioedema to Estradiol Vaginal Cream 0.01%. CONTRAINDICATIONS Oral contraceptives are contraindicated in women who currently have the following conditions: • Thrombophlebitis or thromboembolic disorders • A past history of deep vein thrombophlebitis or thromboembolic disorders • Cerebral vascular or coronary artery disease • Current diagnosis of, or history of, breast cancer, which may be hormone sensitive • Carcinoma of the endometrium or other known or suspected estrogen-dependent neoplasia • Undiagnosed abnormal genital bleeding • Cholestatic jaundice of pregnancy or jaundice with prior pill use • Hepatic adenomas or carcinomas • Are receiving Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for ALT elevations (see WARNINGS , RISK OF LIVER ENZYME ELEVATIONS WITH CONCOMITANT HEPATITIS C TREATMENT ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Natazia is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions: • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases. Examples include women who are known to: • Smoke, if over age 35 [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] • Have deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism, now or in the past [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] • Have cerebrovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] • Have coronary artery disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] • Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart (for example, subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease, or atrial fibrillation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] • Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] • Have uncontrolled hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] • Have diabetes mellitus with vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] • Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or have migraine headaches with or without aura if over age 35 [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] • Current diagnosis of, or history of, breast cancer, which may be hormone sensitive [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] • Liver tumors, benign or malignant, or liver disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ])]. • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) • Breast cancer ( 4 ) • Liver tumors or liver disease ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Oral contraceptives should not be used in women who currently have the following conditions: ● Thrombophlebitis or thromboembolic disorders ● A past history of deep vein thrombophlebitis or thromboembolic disorders ● Cerebral vascular or coronary artery disease ● Known or suspected carcinoma of the breast ● Carcinoma of the endometrium or other known or suspected estrogen-dependent neoplasia ● Undiagnosed abnormal genital bleeding ● Cholestatic jaundice of pregnancy or jaundice with prior pill use ● Hepatic adenomas or carcinomas ● Known or suspected pregnancy ● Are receiving Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for ALT elevations (see Warnings , RISK OF LIVER ENZYME ELEVATIONS WITH CONCOMITANT HEPATITIS C TREATMENT ).
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The sections below provide information on substances for which data on drug interactions with COCs are available. There is little information available about the clinical effect of most drug interactions that may affect COCs. However, based on the known pharmacokinetic effects of these drugs, clinical strategies to minimize any potential adverse effect on contraceptive effectiveness or safety are suggested. Consult the approved product labeling of all concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with COCs or the potential for metabolic enzyme or transporter system alterations. No drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets. Enzyme inducers (e.g.CYP3A4): May decrease the effectiveness of Iclevia or increase breakthrough bleeding. Counsel patients to use a back-up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with Iclevia. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances decreasing the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminishing the efficacy of COCs: Table 5 includes substances that demonstrated an important drug interaction with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets. Table 5: Significant Drug Interactions Involving Substances That Affect COCs a Induction potency of St. John’s wort may vary widely based on preparation. Metabolic Enzyme Inducers Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with metabolic enzyme inducers may decrease the plasma concentrations of the estrogen and/or progestin component of COCs. Decreased exposure of the estrogen and/or progestin component of COCs may potentially diminish the effectiveness of COCs and may lead to contraceptive failure or an increase in breakthrough bleeding. Prevention or management Counsel females to use an alternative method of contraception or a backup method when enzyme inducers are used with COCs. Continue backup contraception for 28 days after discontinuing the enzyme inducer to maintain contraceptive reliability. Examples Aprepitant, barbiturates, bosentan, carbamazepine, efavirenz, felbamate, griseofulvin, oxcarbazepine, phenytoin, rifampin, rifabutin, rufinamide, topiramate, products containing St. John’s wort a , and certain protease inhibitors (see separate section on protease inhibitors below). Colesevelam Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with colesevelam significantly decreases systemic exposure of ethinyl estradiol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Decreased exposure of the estrogen component of COCs may potentially reduce contraceptive efficacy or result in an increase in breakthrough bleeding, depending on the strength of ethinyl estradiol in the COC. Prevention or management Administer 4 or more hours apart to attenuate this drug interaction. Substances increasing the systemic exposure of COCs: Co-administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and certain COCs containing ethinyl estradiol (EE) increase AUC values for EE by approximately 20 to 25%. Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase systemic exposure of EE possibly by inhibition of conjugation. CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole, voriconazole, fluconazole, grapefruit juice, or ketoconazole may increase systemic exposure of estrogen and/or progestin component of COCs. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/ Hepatitis C virus (HCV) protease inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors: Significant decreases in systemic exposure of the estrogen and/or progestin have been noted when COCs are co-administered with some HIV protease inhibitors (e.g., nelfinavir, ritonavir, darunavir/ritonavir, (fos)amprenavir/ritonavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, and tipranavir/ritonavir] or some HCV protease inhibitors (e.g. boceprevir and telaprevir) and some non-nucleosidase reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g. nevirapine) In contrast, significant increases in systemic exposure of the estrogen and/or progestin have been noted when COCs are co-administered with certain other HIV protease inhibitors (e.g. indinavir and atazanavir/ritonavir) and with other non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g. etravirine). 7.2 Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs Table 6 provides significant drug interaction information for drugs co-administered with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets. Table 6: Significant Drug Interaction Information for Drugs Co-Administered With COCs Lamotrigine Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with lamotrigine may significantly decrease systemic exposure of lamotrigine due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Decreased systemic exposure of lamotrigine may reduce seizure control. Prevention or management Dose adjustment may be necessary. Consult the approved product labeling for lamotrigine. Thyroid Hormone Replacement Therapy or Corticosteroid Replacement Therapy Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with thyroid hormone replacement therapy or corticosteroid replacement therapy may increase systemic exposure of thyroid-binding and cortisol-binding globulin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . Prevention or management The dose of replacement thyroid hormone or cortisol therapy may need to be increased. Consult the approved product labeling for the therapy in use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . Other Drugs Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs may decrease systemic exposure of acetaminophen, morphine, salicylic acid, and temazepam. Concomitant use with ethinyl estradiol-containing COCs may increase systemic exposure of other drugs (e.g., cyclosporine, prednisolone, theophylline, tizanidine, and voriconazole). Prevention or management The dosage of drugs that can be affected by this interaction may need to be increased. Consult the approved product labeling for the concomitantly used drug. 7.3 Concomitant Use with Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) Combination Therapy-Liver Enzyme Elevation Co-administration of Iclevia with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir is contraindicated due to potential for ALT elevations [see Warning and Precautions (5.3) ]. Co-administration of Iclevia and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir is not recommended due to potential for ALT elevations. 7.4 Effect on Laboratory Tests The use of COCs may influence the results of certain laboratory tests, such as coagulation factors, lipids, glucose tolerance, and binding proteins. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Consult the labeling of concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations. No drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with Sprintec. Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes including CYP3A4, may decrease the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding. Counsel patients to use a back-up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with COCs. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances decreasing the plasma concentrations of COCs Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, including cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4), may decrease the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminish the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding. Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include phenytoin, barbiturates, carbamazepine, bosentan, felbamate, griseofulvin, oxcarbazepine, rifampicin, topiramate, rifabutin, rufinamide, aprepitant, and products containing St. John’s wort. Interactions between hormonal contraceptives and other drugs may lead to breakthrough bleeding and/or contraceptive failure. Counsel women to use an alternative method of contraception or a back-up method when enzyme inducers are used with COCs, and to continue back-up contraception for 28 days after discontinuing the enzyme inducer to ensure contraceptive reliability. Colesevelam : Colesevelam, a bile acid sequestrant, given together with a COC, has been shown to significantly decrease the AUC of EE. The drug interaction between the contraceptive and colesevelam was decreased when the two drug products were given 4 hours apart. Substances increasing the plasma concentrations of COCs Coadministration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and certain COCs containing ethinyl estradiol (EE) increase AUC values for EE by approximately 20 to 25%. Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase plasma EE concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation. CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole, voriconazole, fluconazole, grapefruit juice, or ketoconazole may increase plasma hormone concentrations. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/Hepatitis C virus (HCV) protease inhibitors, non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, and HIV/AIDS medications containing strong inhibitors or inducers of CYP3A Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma concentrations of estrogen and/or progestin have been noted in some cases of coadministration with HIV protease inhibitors (decrease [e.g., nelfinavir, ritonavir, darunavir/ritonavir, (fos)amprenavir/ritonavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, and tipranavir/ritonavir] or increase [e.g., indinavir and atazanavir/ritonavir])/HCV protease inhibitors (decrease [e.g., boceprevir and telaprevir]) or with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (decrease [e.g., nevirapine] or increase [e.g., etravirine]) or with HIV/AIDS medications containing strong inhibitors (e.g., cobicistat and ritonavir) or inducers of CYP3A. 7.2 Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs COCs containing EE may inhibit the metabolism of other compounds (e.g., cyclosporine, prednisolone, theophylline, tizanidine, and voriconazole) and increase their plasma concentrations. COCs have been shown to decrease plasma concentrations of acetaminophen, clofibric acid, morphine, salicylic acid, temazepam and lamotrigine. Significant decrease in plasma concentration of lamotrigine has been shown, likely due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation. This may reduce seizure control; therefore, dosage adjustments of lamotrigine may be necessary. Women on thyroid hormone replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone because the serum concentration of thyroid-binding globulin increases with use of COCs. 7.3 Interference with Laboratory Tests The use of contraceptive steroids may influence the results of certain laboratory tests, such as coagulation factors, lipids, glucose tolerance, and binding proteins. 7.4 Concomitant Use with HCV Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not coadminister Sprintec with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. D. Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions 1. Accelerated prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, and platelet aggregation time; increased platelet count; increased factors II, VII antigen, VIII antigen, VIII coagulant activity, IX, X, XII, VII-X complex, II-VII-X complex, and beta-thromboglobulin; decreased levels of anti-factor Xa and antithrombin III, decreased antithrombin III activity; increased levels of fibrinogen and fibrinogen activity; increased plasminogen antigen and activity. 2. Increased thyroid-binding globulin (TBG) leading to increased circulating total thyroid hormone levels, as measured by protein-bound iodine (PBI), T 4 levels (by column or by radioimmunoassay) or T 3 levels by radioimmunoassay. T 3 resin uptake is decreased, reflecting the elevated TBG. Free T 4 and free T 3 concentrations are unaltered. Women on thyroid replacement therapy may require higher dose of thyroid hormone. 3. Other binding proteins may be elevated in serum, i.e., corticosteroid binding globulin (CBG), sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), leading to increased total circulating corticosteroids and sex steroids, respectively. Free hormone concentrations, such as testosterone and estradiol, may be decreased. Other plasma proteins may be increased (angiotensinogen/renin substrate, alpha-1-antitrypsin, ceruloplasmin). 4. Increased plasma high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and HDL 2 cholesterol subfraction concentrations, reduced low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol concentration, increased triglycerides levels. 5. Impaired glucose tolerance. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Consult the labeling of all concurrently-used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations . Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes (for example, CYP3A4) may decrease the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances diminishing the efficacy of COCs: Dienogest is a substrate of CYP3A4. Women who take medications that are strong CYP3A4 inducers should not choose Natazia as their oral contraceptive while using these inducers and for at least 28 days after discontinuation of these inducers due to the possibility of increased breakthrough bleeding and/or decreased contraceptive efficacy. Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, including CYP3A4, may decrease the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding. Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include phenytoin, barbiturates, carbamazepine, bosentan, felbamate, griseofulvin, oxcarbazepine, rifampin, topiramate and products containing St. Interactions between oral contraceptives and other drugs may lead to breakthrough bleeding and/or contraceptive failure. Multiple dose co-administration of the strong CYP3A4 inducer rifampin with estradiol valerate/dienogest tablets in healthy postmenopausal women led to a decrease in dienogest and estradiol systemic exposure at steady state. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3).] Substances Increasing the Systemic Exposure of COCs (enzyme inhibitors): Concomitant administration of moderate or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors like azole antifungals (for example, ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, fluconazole), verapamil, macrolides (for example, clarithromycin, erythromycin), diltiazem, and grapefruit increase the serum concentrations of both estradiol and dienogest. In a multiple dose study investigating the effect of CYP3A4 inhibitors (ketoconazole and erythromycin) on Natazia, steady state estradiol and dienogest exposures were increased when co-administered with ketoconazole or erythromycin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)/Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) Protease Inhibitors and Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors : Significant changes (increase and decrease) in plasma concentrations of estrogen and progestin have been noted in some cases of co-administration of HIV/HCV protease inhibitors or with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors. Antibiotics : There have been reports of pregnancy while taking hormonal contraceptives and antibiotics, but clinical pharmacokinetic studies have not shown consistent effects of antibiotics on plasma concentrations of synthetic steroids. 7.2 Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs COCs containing ethinyl estradiol may inhibit the metabolism of other compounds. COCs have been shown to significantly decrease plasma concentrations of lamotrigine, likely due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation. Consult the labeling of the concurrently-used drug to obtain further information about interactions with COCs or the potential for enzyme alterations. [See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ).] Women on thyroid hormone replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone because serum concentrations of thyroid-binding globulin increase with use of COCs. 7.3 Interference with Laboratory Tests The use of contraceptive steroids may influence the results of certain laboratory tests, such as coagulation factors, lipids, glucose tolerance, and binding proteins [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )].

=== VENLAFAXINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Venlafaxine tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder. The efficacy of venlafaxine tablets, USP in the treatment of major depressive disorder was established in 6 week controlled trials of adult outpatients whose diagnoses corresponded most closely to the DSM-III or DSM-III-R category of major depression and in a 4 week controlled trial of inpatients meeting diagnostic criteria for major depression with melancholia (see CLINICAL TRIALS ). A major depressive episode implies a prominent and relatively persistent depressed or dysphoric mood that usually interferes with daily functioning (nearly every day for at least 2 weeks); it should include at least 4 of the following 8 symptoms: change in appetite, change in sleep, psychomotor agitation or retardation, loss of interest in usual activities or decrease in sexual drive, increased fatigue, feelings of guilt or worthlessness, slowed thinking or impaired concentration, and a suicide attempt or suicidal ideation. The efficacy of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules in maintaining an antidepressant response for up to 26 weeks following 8 weeks of acute treatment was demonstrated in a placebo-controlled trial. The efficacy of venlafaxine tablets in maintaining an antidepressant response in patients with recurrent depression who had responded and continued to be improved during an initial 26 weeks of treatment and were then followed for a period of up to 52 weeks was demonstrated in a second placebo-controlled trial (see CLINICAL TRIALS ). Nevertheless, the physician who elects to use venlafaxine tablets/venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are indicated in adults for the treatment of: Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] Panic Disorder (PD) [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for the treatment of adults with: Major Depressive Disorder ( MDD ) ( 1 ) Generalized Anxiety Disorder ( GAD ) ( 1 ) Social Anxiety Disorder ( SAD ) ( 1 ) Panic Disorder ( PD ) ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Venlafaxine extended-release tablets are a selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for: Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) ( 1.1 ) Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Major Depressive Disorder Venlafaxine extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD). Efficacy of venlafaxine in MDD was shown in both short-term trials and a longer-term trial in MDD [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. A major depressive episode (DSM-IV) implies a prominent and relatively persistent (nearly every day for at least 2 weeks) depressed mood or the loss of interest or pleasure in nearly all activities, representing a change from previous functioning, and includes the presence of at least five of the following nine symptoms during the same two-week period: depressed mood, markedly diminished interest or pleasure in usual activities, significant change in weight and/or appetite, insomnia or hypersomnia, psychomotor agitation or retardation, increased fatigue, feelings of guilt or worthlessness, slowed thinking or impaired concentration, a suicide attempt or suicidal ideation. 1.2 Social Anxiety Disorder Venlafaxine extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD), also known as Social Phobia, as defined in DSM-IV. Social Anxiety Disorder (DSM-IV) is characterized by a marked and persistent fear of 1 or more social or performance situations in which the person is exposed to unfamiliar people or to possible scrutiny by others. Exposure to the feared situation almost invariably provokes anxiety, which may approach the intensity of a panic attack. The feared situations are avoided or endured with intense anxiety or distress. The avoidance, anxious anticipation, or distress in the feared situation(s) interferes significantly with the person's normal routine, occupational or academic functioning, or social activities or relationships, or there is a marked distress about having the phobias. Lesser degrees of performance anxiety or shyness generally do not require psychopharmacological treatment. Efficacy of venlafaxine extended-release tablets in the treatment of SAD was established in short-term SAD trials [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP are indicated in adults for the treatment of: Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] Panic Disorder (PD) [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for the treatment of adults with: Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) ( 1 ) Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) ( 1 ) Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) ( 1 ) Panic Disorder (PD) ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are indicated in adults for the treatment of: Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1) ] Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3) ] Panic Disorder (PD) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )] Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for the treatment of adults with: Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) ( 1 ) Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) ( 1 ) Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) ( 1 ) Panic Disorder (PD) ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are indicated in adults for the treatment of: • Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) [see ] • Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) [see ] • Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) [see ] • Panic Disorder (PD) [see ] Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for the treatment of adults with: • Major Depressive Disorder ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. ) ( 1 ) • Generalized Anxiety Disorder () ( 1 ) • Social Anxiety Disorder ( Error! ) ( 1 ) • Panic Disorder ( Error! ) ( 1 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Venlafaxine tablets are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder. The efficacy of venlafaxine tablets in the treatment of major depressive disorder was established in 6-week controlled trials of adult outpatients whose diagnoses corresponded most closely to the DSM-III or DSM-III-R category of major depression and in a 4-week controlled trial of inpatients meeting diagnostic criteria for major depression with melancholia (see CLINICAL TRIALS ). The efficacy of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended release capsules in maintaining an antidepressant response for up to 26 weeks following 8 weeks of acute treatment was demonstrated in a placebo-controlled trial. Nevertheless, the physician who elects to use venlafaxine tablets/ venlafaxine hydrochloride extended release capsules for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are indicated in adults for the treatment of: • Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] • Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] • Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] • Panic Disorder (PD) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )] Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for the treatment of adults with: • Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) ( 1 ) • Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) ( 1 ) • Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) ( 1 ) • Panic Disorder (PD) ( 1 ) The efficacy of venlafaxine hydrochloride in the treatment of major depressive disorder was established in 6-week controlled trials of adult outpatients whose diagnoses corresponded most closely to the DSM-III or DSM-III-R category of major depression and in a 4-week controlled trial of inpatients meeting diagnostic criteria for major depression with melancholia (see CLINICAL TRIALS ). The efficacy of venlafaxine extended-release capsules in maintaining an antidepressant response for up to 26 weeks following 8 weeks of acute treatment was demonstrated in a placebo-controlled trial. The efficacy of venlafaxine hydrochloride in maintaining an antidepressant response in patients with recurrent depression who had responded and continued to be improved during an initial 26 weeks of treatment and were then followed for a period of up to 52 weeks was demonstrated in a second placebo-controlled trial (see CLINICAL TRIALS ). Nevertheless, the physician who elects to use venlafaxine tablets/ venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Initial Treatment The recommended starting dose for venlafaxine tablets is 75 mg/day, administered in two or three divided doses, taken with food. Depending on tolerability and the need for further clinical effect, the dose may be increased to 150 mg/day. If needed, the dose should be further increased up to 225 mg/day. When increasing the dose, increments of up to 75 mg/day should be made at intervals of no less than 4 days. In outpatient settings there was no evidence of usefulness of doses greater than 225 mg/day for moderately depressed patients, but more severely depressed inpatients responded to a mean dose of 350 mg/day. Certain patients, including more severely depressed patients, may therefore respond more to higher doses, up to a maximum of 375 mg/day, generally in three divided doses (see PRECAUTIONS , General , Use in Patients with Concomitant Illness) . Special Populations Treatment of Pregnant Women During the Third Trimester Neonates exposed to venlafaxine tablets, other SNRIs, or SSRIs, late in the third trimester have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization, respiratory support, and tube feeding (see PRECAUTIONS ). When treating pregnant women with venlafaxine tablets during the third trimester, the physician should carefully consider the potential risks and benefits of treatment. Dosage for Patients with Hepatic Impairment Given the decrease in clearance and increase in elimination half-life for both venlafaxine and ODV that is observed in patients with hepatic cirrhosis and mild and moderate hepatic impairment compared to normal subjects (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ), it is recommended that the total daily dose be reduced by 50% in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. Since there was much individual variability in clearance between subjects with cirrhosis, it may be necessary to reduce the dose even more than 50%, and individualization of dosing may be desirable in some patients. Dosage for Patients with Renal Impairment Given the decrease in clearance for venlafaxine and the increase in elimination half-life for both venlafaxine and ODV that is observed in patients with renal impairment (GFR = 10 to 70 mL/min) compared to normals (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ), it is recommended that the total daily dose be reduced by 25% in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment. It is recommended that the total daily dose be reduced by 50% in patients undergoing hemodialysis. Since there was much individual variability in clearance between patients with renal impairment, individualization of dosing may be desirable in some patients. Dosage for Elderly Patients No dose adjustment is recommended for elderly patients on the basis of age. As with any antidepressant, however, caution should be exercised in treating the elderly. When individualizing the dosage, extra care should be taken when increasing the dose. Maintenance Treatment It is generally agreed that acute episodes of major depressive disorder require several months or longer of sustained pharmacological therapy beyond response to the acute episode. In one study, in which patients responding during 8 weeks of acute treatment with venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules were assigned randomly to placebo or to the same dose of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules (75, 150, or 225 mg/day, qAM) during 26 weeks of maintenance treatment as they had received during the acute stabilization phase, longer-term efficacy was demonstrated. A second longer-term study has demonstrated the efficacy of venlafaxine tablets in maintaining an antidepressant response in patients with recurrent depression who had responded and continued to be improved during an initial 26 weeks of treatment and were then randomly assigned to placebo or venlafaxine tablets for periods of up to 52 weeks on the same dose (100 to 200 mg/day, on a b.i.d. schedule) (see CLINICAL TRIALS ). Based on these limited data, it is not known whether or not the dose of venlafaxine tablets/venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules needed for maintenance treatment is identical to the dose needed to achieve an initial response. Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment. Discontinuing Venlafaxine Tablets Symptoms associated with discontinuation of venlafaxine tablets, other SNRIs, and SSRIs, have been reported (see PRECAUTIONS ). Patients should be monitored for these symptoms when discontinuing treatment. A gradual reduction in the dose rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible. If intolerable symptoms occur following a decrease in the dose or upon discontinuation of treatment, then resuming the previously prescribed dose may be considered. Subsequently, the physician may continue decreasing the dose but at a more gradual rate. Switching a Patient To or From a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with venlafaxine tablets. Conversely, at least 7 days should be allowed after stopping venlafaxine tablets before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Use of Venlafaxine Tablets With Other MAOls, Such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start venlafaxine tablets in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). In some cases, a patient already receiving therapy with venlafaxine tablets may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, venlafaxine tablets should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. The patient should be monitored for symptoms of serotonin syndrome for 7 days or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, whichever comes first. Therapy with venlafaxine tablets may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue (see WARNINGS ). The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with venlafaxine tablets is unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use (see WARNINGS ). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Starting Dose Target Dose Maximum Dose MDD ( 2.2 ) 37.5 to 75 mg/day 75 mg/day 225 mg/day GAD ( 2.3 ) 37.5 to 75 mg/day 75 mg/day 225 mg/day SAD ( 2.4 ) 75 mg/day 75 mg/day 75 mg/day PD ( 2.5 ) 37.5 mg/day 75 mg/day 225 mg/day Take once daily with food. Capsules should be taken whole; do not divide, crush, chew, or dissolve ( 2.1 ). When discontinuing treatment, reduce the dose gradually ( 2.10 , 5.7 ). Renal impairment: reduce the total daily dose by 25% to 50% in patients with renal impairment. Reduce the total daily dose by 50% or more in patients undergoing dialysis or with severe renal impairment ( 2.9 ). Hepatic impairment: reduce the daily dose by 50% in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. In patients with severe hepatic impairment or hepatic cirrhosis, it may be necessary to reduce the dose by more than 50% ( 2.8 ). 2.1 General Administration Information Administer venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules as a single dose with food, either in the morning or in the evening at approximately the same time each day [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Swallow capsules whole with fluid. Do not divide, crush, chew, or place in water. The capsule may also be administered by carefully opening the capsule and sprinkling the entire contents on a spoonful of applesauce. This drug/food mixture should be swallowed immediately without chewing and followed with a glass of water to ensure complete swallowing of the pellets (spheroids). 2.2 Major Depressive Disorder For most patients, the recommended starting dose for venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is 75 mg per day, administered in a single dose. For some patients, it may be desirable to start at 37.5 mg per day for 4 to 7 days to allow new patients to adjust to the medication before increasing to 75 mg per day. Patients not responding to the initial 75 mg per day dose may benefit from dose increases to a maximum of 225 mg per day. Dose increases should be in increments of up to 75 mg per day, as needed, and should be made at intervals of not less than 4 days. In the clinical studies establishing efficacy, upward titration was permitted at intervals of 2 weeks or more. 2.3 Generalized Anxiety Disorder For most patients, the recommended starting dose for venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is 75 mg per day, administered in a single dose. 2.4 Social Anxiety Disorder (Social Phobia) The recommended dose is 75 mg per day, administered in a single dose. There was no evidence that higher doses confer any additional benefit. 2.5 Panic Disorder The recommended starting dose is 37.5 mg per day of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules for 7 days. Patients not responding to 75 mg per day may benefit from dose increases to a maximum of approximately 225 mg per day. Dose increases should be in increments of up to 75 mg per day, as needed, and should be made at intervals of not less than 7 days. 2.6 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Prior to initiating treatment with venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . 2.7 Switching Patients from Effexor Tablets Patients with depression who are currently being treated with Effexor may be switched to venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules at the nearest equivalent dose (mg per day), e.g., 37.5 mg venlafaxine twice a day to 75 mg venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules once daily. However, individual dosage adjustments may be necessary. 2.8 Dosage Recommendations for Patients with Hepatic Impairment Reduce the venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules total daily dose by 50% in patients with mild (Child-Pugh Class A) to moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) hepatic impairment. Reduce the total daily dose by 50% or more in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) or hepatic cirrhosis [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . 2.9 Dosage Recommendations for Patients with Renal Impairment Reduce the venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules total daily dose by 25% to 50% in patients with mild (CLcr 60 to 89 mL/min) or moderate (CLcr 30 to 59 mL/min) renal impairment. Reduce the total daily dose by 50% or more in patients undergoing hemodialysis or with severe renal impairment (CLcr < 30 mL/min). Because there was much individual variability in clearance between patients with renal impairment, individualization of dosage is recommended in some patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] . 2.10 Discontinuing Treatment with Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules A gradual reduction in the dose, rather than abrupt cessation, is recommended when discontinuing therapy with venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules. In clinical studies with venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules, tapering was achieved by reducing the daily dose by 75 mg at one-week intervals. Individualization of tapering may be necessary. In some patients, discontinuation may need to occur over a period of several months [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . 2.11 Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Antidepressant At least 14 days must elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI antidepressant and initiation of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules. In addition, at least 7 days must elapse after stopping venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , and Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Venlafaxine extended-release tablets should be administered in a single dose with food either in the morning or in the evening at approximately the same time each day. Each tablet should be swallowed whole with fluid and not divided, crushed, chewed, or placed in water. Initial Treatment ( 2.1 ) Indication Starting Dose Dose Increase Maximum Dose Major Depressive Disorder 75 mg/day (in some patients, 37.5 mg/day for 4-7 days) 75 mg/day increments at intervals of 4 days or longer 225 mg/day Social Anxiety Disorder 75 mg/day No benefit at higher doses 75 mg/day Venlafaxine extended-release tablets should be taken as a single daily dose with food in either the morning or evening at the same time each day. ( 2 ) Discontinuation: Gradual; individualized as necessary. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Initial Treatment Major Depressive Disorder For most patients, the recommended starting dose for venlafaxine extended-release tablets is 75 mg/day, administered in a single dose. In the clinical trials establishing the efficacy of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules in moderately depressed outpatients, the initial dose of venlafaxine was 75 mg/day. For some patients, it may be desirable to start at 37.5 mg/day for 4 to 7 days to allow new patients to adjust to the medication before increasing to 75 mg/day. While the relationship between dose and antidepressant response for venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules has not been adequately explored, patients not responding to the initial 75 mg/day dose may benefit from dose increases to a maximum of approximately 225 mg/day. Dose increases should be in increments of up to 75 mg/day, as needed, and should be made at intervals of not less than 4 days, since steady state plasma levels of venlafaxine and its major metabolites are achieved in most patients by day 4. In the clinical trials establishing efficacy, upward titration was permitted at intervals of 2 weeks or more; the average doses were about 140 to 180 mg/day [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. It should be noted that, while the maximum recommended dose for moderately depressed outpatients is also 225 mg/day for venlafaxine hydrochloride immediate-release tablets, more severely depressed inpatients in one study of the development program for that product responded to a mean dose of 350 mg/day (range of 150 to 375 mg/day). Whether or not higher doses of venlafaxine extended-release tablets are needed for more severely depressed patients is unknown; however, the experience with venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsule doses higher than 225 mg/day is very limited . Social Anxiety Disorder (Social Phobia) The recommended dose is 75 mg/day, administered in a single dose. There was no evidence that higher doses confer any additional benefit . 2.2 Maintenance Treatment There is no body of evidence available from controlled trials to indicate how long patients with major depressive disorder should be treated with venlafaxine extended-release tablets. It is generally agreed that acute episodes of major depressive disorder require several months or longer of sustained pharmacological therapy beyond response to the acute episode. In one study, in which patients responding during 8 weeks of acute treatment with venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules were assigned randomly to placebo or to the same dose of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules (75, 150, or 225 mg per day, qAM) during 26 weeks of maintenance treatment as they had received during the acute stabilization phase, longer-term efficacy was demonstrated. A second longer-term study has demonstrated the efficacy of venlafaxine hydrochloride immediate-release tablets in maintaining a response in patients with recurrent major depressive disorder who had responded and continued to be improved during an initial 26 weeks of treatment and were then randomly assigned to placebo or venlafaxine hydrochloride immediate-release tablets for periods of up to 52 weeks on the same dose (100 to 200 mg/day, on a b.i.d. schedule)[ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. Based on these limited data, it is not known whether or not the dose of venlafaxine extended-release tablets needed for maintenance treatment is identical to the dose needed to achieve an initial response. 2.3 Special Populations Treatment of Pregnant Women During the Third Trimester Neonates exposed to venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules, other SNRIs, or SSRIs, late in the third trimester have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization, respiratory support, and tube feeding [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 ) ]. When treating pregnant women with venlafaxine extended-release tablets during the third trimester, the physician should carefully consider the potential risks and benefits of treatment. Patients with Hepatic Impairment Given the decrease in clearance and increase in elimination half-life for both venlafaxine and ODV that is observed in patients with hepatic cirrhosis and mild and moderate hepatic impairment compared with normal subjects [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ], it is recommended that the total daily dose be reduced by 50% in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. Since there was much individual variability in clearance between patients with cirrhosis, it may be necessary to reduce the dose even more than 50%, and individualization of dosing may be desirable in some patients. Patients with Renal Impairment Given the decrease in clearance for venlafaxine and the increase in elimination half-life for both venlafaxine and ODV that is observed in patients with renal impairment (GFR = 10 to 70 mL/min) compared with normal subjects [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ], it is recommended that the total daily dose be reduced by 25% to 50%. In patients undergoing hemodialysis, it is recommended that the total daily dose be reduced by 50%. Because there was much individual variability in clearance between patients with renal impairment, individualization of dosage may be desirable in some patients. Elderly Patients No dose adjustment is recommended for elderly patients solely on the basis of age. As with any drug for the treatment of major depressive disorder or Social Anxiety Disorder, however, caution should be exercised in treating the elderly. 2.4 Discontinuing Venlafaxine Extended-Release Tablets Symptoms associated with discontinuation of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules, other SNRI's, and SSRI's have been reported [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ]. A gradual reduction in the dose, rather than abrupt cessation, is recommended whenever possible. In clinical trials with venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules, tapering was achieved by reducing the daily dose by 75 mg at 1 week intervals. 2.5 Switching Patients from Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Immediate-Release Tablets Depressed patients who are currently being treated at a therapeutic dose with venlafaxine hydrochloride immediate-release tablets may be switched to venlafaxine extended-release tablets at the nearest equivalent dose (mg/day), e.g., 37.5 mg venlafaxine two-times-a-day to 75 mg venlafaxine extended-release tablets once daily. 2.6 Switching a Patient To or From a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with venlafaxine extended-release tablets. Conversely, at least 7 days should be allowed after stopping venlafaxine extended-release tablets before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [ see Contraindications ( 4.1 ) ]. 2.7 Use of Venlafaxine Extended-Release Tablets with Other MAOIs, Such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start venlafaxine extended-release tablets in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [ see Contraindications ( 4.1 ) ]. In some cases, a patient already receiving venlafaxine extended-release tablets therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, venlafaxine extended-release tablets should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. Therapy with venlafaxine extended-release tablets may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with venlafaxine extended-release tablets is unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Starting Dose Target Dose Maximum Dose MDD ( 2.2 ) 37.5 to 75 mg/day 75 mg/day 225 mg/day GAD ( 2.3 ) 37.5 to75 mg/day 75 mg/day 225 mg/day SAD ( 2.4 ) 75 mg/day 75 mg/day 75 mg/day PD ( 2.5 ) 37.5 mg/day 75 mg/day 225 mg/day Take once daily with food. 2.6 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Prior to initiating treatment with venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] . 2.7 Switching Patients from Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Tablets Patients with depression who are currently being treated with venlafaxine hydrochloride tablets may be switched to venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules at the nearest equivalent dose (mg per day), e.g., 37.5 mg venlafaxine twice a day to 75 mg venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules once daily. Reduce the total daily dose by 50% or more in patients undergoing hemodialysis or with severe renal impairment (CLcr<30 mL/min). In addition, at least 7 days must elapse after stopping venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , and Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 2.1 General Administration Information Administer venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules as a single dose with food, either in the morning or in the evening at approximately the same time each day [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2.6 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Prior to initiating treatment with venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )]. 2.7 Switching Patients from Venlafaxine Tablets Patients with depression who are currently being treated with venlafaxine tablets (immediate release) may be switched to venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules at the nearest equivalent dose (mg per day), e.g., 37.5 mg venlafaxine twice a day to 75 mg venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules once daily. Reduce the total daily dose by 50% or more in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) or hepatic cirrhosis [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. Because there was much individual variability in clearance between patients with renal impairment, individualization of dosage is recommended in some patients [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )]. In some patients, discontinuation may need to occur over a period of several months [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )]. In addition, at least 7 days must elapse after stopping venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Starting Dose Target Dose Maximum Dose MDD () 37.5 to 75 mg/day 75 mg/day 225 mg/day GAD () 37.5 to 75 mg/day 75 mg/day 225 mg/day SAD () 75 mg/day 75 mg/day 75 mg/day PD () 37.5 mg/day 75 mg/day 225 mg/day • Take once daily with food. Capsules should be taken whole; do not divide, crush, chew, or dissolve (). • When discontinuing treatment, reduce the dose gradually (, ). • Renal impairment: reduce the total daily dose by 25% to 50% in patients with renal impairment. Reduce the total daily dose by 50% or more in patients undergoing dialysis or with severe renal impairment (). • Hepatic impairment: reduce the daily dose by 50% in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. In patients with severe hepatic impairment or hepatic cirrhosis, it may be necessary to reduce the dose by more than 50% (). 2.1 General Administration Information Administer venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules as a single dose with food, either in the morning or in the evening at approximately the same time each day [see ] . 2.6 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Prior to initiating treatment with venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see ] . Reduce the total daily dose by 50% or more in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) or hepatic cirrhosis [see ] . Because there was much individual variability in clearance between patients with renal impairment, individualization of dosage is recommended in some patients [see ] . In some patients, discontinuation may need to occur over a period of several months [see ] . In addition, at least 7 days must elapse after stopping venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications (4) , , and ] . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION* Initial Treatment The recommended starting dose for venlafaxine tablet is 75 mg/day, administered in two or three divided doses, taken with food. Certain patients, including more severely depressed patients, may therefore respond more to higher doses, up to a maximum of 375 mg/day, generally in three divided doses (see PRECAUTIONS, General, Use in Patients with Concomitant Illness ). In one study, in which patients responding during 8 weeks of acute treatment with venlafaxine hydrochloride extended release capsules were assigned randomly to placebo or to the same dose of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended release capsules (75, 150, or 225 mg/day, qAM) during 26 weeks of maintenance treatment as they had received during the acute stabilization phase, longer-term efficacy was demonstrated. Based on these limited data, it is not known whether or not the dose of venlafaxine tablets / venlafaxine hydrochloride extended release capsules needed for maintenance treatment is identical to the dose needed to achieve an initial response. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Starting Dose Target Dose Maximum Dose MDD (2.2) 37.5 to 75 mg/day 75 mg/day 225 mg/day GAD (2.3) 37.5 to 75 mg/day 75 mg/day 225 mg/day SAD (2.4) 75 mg/day 75 mg/day 75 mg/day PD (2.5) 37.5 mg/day 75 mg/day 225mg/day • Take once daily with food. • When discontinuing treatment, reduce the dose gradually ( 2.10 , 5.7 ). 2.1 General Administration Information Administer venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules as a single dose with food, either in the morning or in the evening at approximately the same time each day [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.2 Major Depressive Disorder For most patients, the recommended starting dose for venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are 75 mg per day, administered in a single dose. 2.3 Generalized Anxiety Disorder For most patients, the recommended starting dose for venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are 75 mg per day, administered in a single dose. In some patients, discontinuation may need to occur over a period of several months [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . In addition, at least 7 days must elapse after stopping venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2), and Drug Interactions (7.1)]. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Initial Treatment The recommended starting dose for venlafaxine tablets are 75 mg/day, administered in two or three divided doses, taken with food. When treating pregnant women with venlafaxine tablets during the third trimester, the physician should carefully consider the potential risks and benefits of treatment.. In one study, in which patients responding during 8 weeks of acute treatment with venlafaxine extended-release capsules were assigned randomly to placebo or to the same dose of venlafaxine extended-release capsules (75, 150, or 225 mg/day, qAM) during 26 weeks of maintenance treatment as they had received during the acute stabilization phase, longer-term efficacy was demonstrated. Based on these limited data, it is not known whether or not the dose of venlafaxine tablets/ venlafaxine extended-release capsules needed for maintenance treatment is identical to the dose needed to achieve an initial response. Discontinuing Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Symptoms associated with discontinuation of venlafaxine tablets, other SNRIs, and SSRIs, have been reported (see PRECAUTIONS ). Switching a Patient To or From a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders . At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with venlafaxine hydrochloride. Conversely, at least 7 days should be allowed after stopping venlafaxine hydrochloride before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Use of Venlafaxine Hydrochloride with Other MAOIs, Such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue : Do not start venlafaxine hydrochloride in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In some cases, a patient already receiving therapy with venlafaxine hydrochloride may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, venlafaxine hydrochloride should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. Therapy with venlafaxine hydrochloride may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue (see WARNINGS ). The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with venlafaxine hydrochloride is unclear.
Warnings: WARNINGS Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Patients with major depressive disorder (MDD), both adult and pediatric, may experience worsening of their depression and/or the emergence of suicidal ideation and behavior (suicidality) or unusual changes in behavior, whether or not they are taking antidepressant medications, and this risk may persist until significant remission occurs. Suicide is a known risk of depression and certain other psychiatric disorders, and these disorders themselves are the strongest predictors of suicide. There has been a long standing concern, however, that antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment. Pooled analyses of short-term placebo-controlled trials of antidepressant drugs (SSRIs and others) showed that these drugs increase the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents, and young adults (ages 18 to 24) with major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. Short-term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24; there was a reduction with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older. The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in children and adolescents with MDD, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 24 short-term trials of 9 antidepressant drugs in over 4400 patients. The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in adults with MDD or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 295 short-term trials (median duration of 2 months) of 11 antidepressant drugs in over 77,000 patients. There was considerable variation in risk of suicidality among drugs, but a tendency toward an increase in the younger patients for almost all drugs studied. There were differences in absolute risk of suicidality across the different indications, with the highest incidence in MDD. The risk differences (drug vs. placebo), however, were relatively stable within age strata and across indications. These risk differences (drug-placebo difference in the number of cases of suicidality per 1000 patients treated) are provided in Table 1. Table 1 Age Range Drug - Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo < 18 14 additional cases 18 to 24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25 to 64 1 fewer case ≥ 65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. There were suicides in the adult trials, but the number was not sufficient to reach any conclusion about drug effect on suicide. It is unknown whether the suicidality risk extends to longer-term use, i.e., beyond several months. However, there is substantial evidence from placebo-controlled maintenance trials in adults with depression that the use of antidepressants can delay the recurrence of depression. All patients being treated with antidepressants for any indication should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening, suicidality, and unusual changes in behavior, especially during the initial few months of a course of drug therapy, or at times of dose changes, either increases or decreases. The following symptoms, anxiety, agitation, panic attacks, insomnia, irritability, hostility, aggressiveness, impulsivity, akathisia (psychomotor restlessness), hypomania, and mania, have been reported in adult and pediatric patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder as well as for other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric. Although a causal link between the emergence of such symptoms and either the worsening of depression and/or the emergence of suicidal impulses has not been established, there is concern that such symptoms may represent precursors to emerging suicidality. Consideration should be given to changing the therapeutic regimen, including possibly discontinuing the medication, in patients whose depression is persistently worse, or who are experiencing emergent suicidality or symptoms that might be precursors to worsening depression or suicidality, especially if these symptoms are severe, abrupt in onset, or were not part of the patient's presenting symptoms. If the decision has been made to discontinue treatment, medication should be tapered, as rapidly as is feasible, but with recognition that abrupt discontinuation can be associated with certain symptoms (see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Discontinuation of Treatment with Venlafaxine Tablets , for a description of the risks of discontinuation of venlafaxine tablets). Families and caregivers of patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder or other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric, should be alerted about the need to monitor patients for the emergence of agitation, irritability, unusual changes in behavior, and the other symptoms described above, as well as the emergence of suicidality, and to report such symptoms immediately to health care providers. Such monitoring should include daily observation by families and caregivers. Prescriptions for venlafaxine tablets should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management, in order to reduce the risk of overdose. Screening Patients for Bipolar Disorder A major depressive episode may be the initial presentation of bipolar disorder. It is generally believed (though not established in controlled trials) that treating such an episode with an antidepressant alone may increase the likelihood of precipitation of a mixed/manic episode in patients at risk for bipolar disorder. Whether any of the symptoms described above represent such a conversion is unknown. However, prior to initiating treatment with an antidepressant, patients with depressive symptoms should be adequately screened to determine if they are at risk for bipolar disorder; such screening should include a detailed psychiatric history, including a family history of suicide, bipolar disorder, and depression. It should be noted that venlafaxine tablets are not approved for use in treating bipolar depression. Serotonin Syndrome The development of a potentially life-threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with SNRIs and SSRIs, including venlafaxine tablets, alone but particularly with concomitant use of other serotonergic drugs (including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone, amphetamines, and St. John's Wort) and with drugs that impair metabolism of serotonin (in particular, MAOIs, both those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). Patients should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. The concomitant use of venlafaxine tablets with MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders is contraindicated. Venlafaxine tablets should also not be started in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. All reports with methylene blue that provided information on the route of administration involved intravenous administration in the dose range of 1 mg/kg to 8 mg/kg. No reports involved the administration of methylene blue by other routes (such as oral tablets or local tissue injection) or at lower doses. There may be circumstances when it is necessary to initiate treatment with a MAOI such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue in a patient taking venlafaxine tablets. Venlafaxine tablets should be discontinued before initiating treatment with the MAOI (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). If concomitant use of venlafaxine tablets with other serotonergic drugs, including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, buspirone, tryptophan, and St. John's Wort is clinically warranted, patients should be made aware of a potential increased risk of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Treatment with venlafaxine tablets and any concomitant serotonergic agents should be discontinued immediately if the above events occur and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated. Angle-Closure Glaucoma The pupillary dilation that occurs following use of many antidepressant drugs including venlafaxine tablets may trigger an angle closure attack in a patient with anatomically narrow angles who does not have a patent iridectomy. Sustained Hypertension Venlafaxine treatment is associated with sustained increases in blood pressure in some patients. (1) In a premarketing study comparing three fixed doses of venlafaxine (75, 225, and 375 mg/day) and placebo, a mean increase in supine diastolic blood pressure (SDBP) of 7.2 mm Hg was seen in the 375 mg/day group at week 6 compared to essentially no changes in the 75 and 225 mg/day groups and a mean decrease in SDBP of 2.2 mm Hg in the placebo group. (2) An analysis for patients meeting criteria for sustained hypertension (defined as treatment-emergent SDBP ≥ 90 mm Hg and ≥ 10 mm Hg above baseline for 3 consecutive visits) revealed a dose-dependent increase in the incidence of sustained hypertension for venlafaxine: Probability of Sustained Elevation in SDBP (Pool of Premarketing Venlafaxine Studies) Treatment Group Incidence of Sustained Elevation in SDBP Venlafaxine < 100 mg/day 3% 101 to 200 mg/day 5% 201 to 300 mg/day 7% > 300 mg/day 13% Placebo 2% An analysis of the patients with sustained hypertension and the 19 venlafaxine patients who were discontinued from treatment because of hypertension (< 1% of total venlafaxine-treated group) revealed that most of the blood pressure increases were in a modest range (10 to 15 mm Hg, SDBP). Nevertheless, sustained increases of this magnitude could have adverse consequences. Cases of elevated blood pressure requiring immediate treatment have been reported in post marketing experience. Preexisting hypertension should be controlled before treatment with venlafaxine. It is recommended that patients receiving venlafaxine have regular monitoring of blood pressure. For patients who experience a sustained increase in blood pressure while receiving venlafaxine, either dose reduction or discontinuation should be considered. Sexual Dysfunction Use of SNRIs, including venlafaxine tablets, may cause symptoms of sexual dysfunction (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). In male patients, SNRI use may result in ejaculatory delay or failure, decreased libido, and erectile dysfunction. In female patients, SNRI use may result in decreased libido and delayed or absent orgasm. It is important for prescribers to inquire about sexual function prior to initiation of venlafaxine tablets and to inquire specifically about changes in sexual function during treatment, because sexual function may not be spontaneously reported. When evaluating changes in sexual function, obtaining a detailed history (including timing of symptom onset) is important because sexual symptoms may have other causes, including the underlying psychiatric disorder. Discuss potential management strategies to support patients in making informed decisions about treatment. Pooled analyses of short-term placebo-controlled trials of antidepressant drugs (SSRIs and others) showed that these drugs increase the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents, and young adults (ages 18-24) with major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. The risk differences (drug vs placebo), however, were relatively stable within age strata and across indications. These risk differences (drug-placebo difference in the number of cases of suicidality per 1000 patients treated) are provided inTable 1. Table 1 Age Range Drug-Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo <18 14 additional cases 18 to 24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25 to 64 1 fewer case > 65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. Although a causal link between the emergence of such symptoms and either the worsening of depression and / or the emergence of suicidal impulses has not been established, there is concern that such symptoms may represent precursors to emerging suicidality. If the decision has been made to discontinue treatment, medication should be tapered, as rapidly as is feasible, but with recognition that abrupt discontinuation can be associated with certain symptoms (see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Discontinuation of Treatment with venlafaxine tablets , for a description of the risks of discontinuation of venlafaxine tablets). Venlafaxine tablets should be discontinued before initiating treatment with the MAOI (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). (2) An analysis for patients meeting criteria for sustained hypertension (defined as treatment-emergent SDBP ≥90 mm Hg and ≥10 mm Hg above baseline for 3 consecutive visits) revealed a dose-dependent increase in the incidence of sustained hypertension for venlafaxine: Probability of Sustained Elevation in SDBP (Pool of Premarketing Venlafaxine Studies) Treatment Group Incidence of Sustained Elevation in SDBP Venlafaxine < 100 mg/day 3% 101 to 200 mg/day 5% 201 to 300 mg/day 7% > 300 mg/day 13% Placebo 2% An analysis of the patients with sustained hypertension and the 19 venlafaxine patients who were discontinued from treatment because of hypertension (<1% of total venlafaxine-treated group) revealed that most of the blood pressure increases were in a modest range (10 to 15 mm Hg, SDBP). Pre-existing hypertension should be controlled before treatment with venlafaxine. There has been a long-standing concern, however, that antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment. The pooled analyses of placebocontrolled trials in adults with MDD or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 295 short-term trials (median duration of 2 months) of 11 antidepressant drugs in over 77,000 patients. Table 1 Age Range Drug-Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo <18 14 additional cases 18 to 24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25 to 64 1 fewer case ≥ 65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. If the decision has been made to discontinue treatment, medication should be tapered, as rapidly as is feasible, but with recognition that abrupt discontinuation can be associated with certain symptoms (see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Discontinuation of Treatment with venlafaxine hydrochloride , for a description of the risks of discontinuation of venlafaxine hydrochloride). Prescriptions for venlafaxine hydrochloride should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management, in order to reduce the risk of overdose. It should be noted that venlafaxine hydrochloride is not approved for use in treating bipolar depression. Serotonin Syndrome The development of a potentially life-threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with SNRIs and SSRIs, including venlaxine hydrochloride, alone but particularly with concomitant use of other serotonergic drugs (including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone, amphetamines, and St. The concomitant use of venlaxine hydrochloride with MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders is contraindicated. Venlaxine hydrochloride should also not be started in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. There may be circumstances when it is necessary to initiate treatment with a MAOI such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue in a patient taking venlaxine hydrochloride. Venlafaxine hydrochloride should be discontinued before initiating treatment with the MAOI (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). If concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride with other serotonergic drugs, including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, buspirone, tryptophan, and St. Treatment with venlafaxine hydrochloride and any concomitant serotonergic agents should be discontinued immediately if the above events occur and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated. Angle-Closure Glaucoma The pupillary dilation that occurs following use of many antidepressant drugs including venlafaxine tablets may trigger an angle closure attack in a patient with automatically narrow angles who does not have a patent iridectomy. (2) An analysis for patients meeting criteria for sustained hypertension (defined as treatment-emergent SDBP ≥ 90 mm Hg and ≥ 10 mm Hg above baseline for 3 consecutive visits) revealed a dose-dependent increase in the incidence of sustained hypertension for venlafaxine: Probability of Sustained Elevation in SDBP (Pool of Premarketing Venlafaxine Studies) Treatment Group Incidence of Sustained Elevation in SDBP Venlafaxine <100 mg/day 3% 101 to 200 mg/day 5% 201 to 300 mg/day 7% >300 mg/day 13% Placebo 2% An analysis of the patients with sustained hypertension and the 19 venlafaxine patients who were discontinued from treatment because of hypertension (<1% of total venlafaxine-treated group) revealed that most of the blood pressure increases were in a modest range (10 to 15 mm Hg, SDBP). Mydriasis Mydriasis has been reported in association with venlafaxine; therefore patients with risk of acute narrow-angle glaucoma (angle-closure glaucoma) should be monitored (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients ). In male patients, SNRI use may result in ejaculatorydelay or failure, decreased libido, and erectile dysfunction. Discuss potential management strategiesto support patients in making informed decisions about treatment.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to venlafaxine hydrochloride or to any excipients in the formulation. The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with venlafaxine tablets or within 7 days of stopping treatment with venlafaxine tablets is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of venlafaxine tablets within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Starting venlafaxine tablets in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are contraindicated in patients: with known hypersensitivity to venlafaxine hydrochloride, desvenlafaxine succinate or to any excipients in the formulation [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including the MAOIs linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) because of the risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration (2.11) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , and Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Hypersensitivity to venlafaxine hydrochloride, desvenlafaxine succinate, or any excipients in the venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules formulation ( 4 ). Concomitant use of monoaminoxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of discontinuing an MAOI ( 4 , 5.2 , 7.1 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Serotonin Syndrome and MAOIs: Do not use MAOI’s intended to treat psychiatric disorders with venlafaxine extended-release tablets or within 7 days of stopping treatment with venlafaxine extended-release tablets. Do not use venlafaxine extended-release tablets within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders. In addition, do not start venlafaxine extended-release tablets in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. ( 4.1 ) 4.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The use of MAOI’s intended to treat psychiatric disorders with venlafaxine extended-release tablets or within 7 days of stopping treatment with venlafaxine extended-release tablets is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of venlafaxine extended-release tablets within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ), and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. Starting venlafaxine extended-release tablets in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are contraindicated in patients: with known hypersensitivity to venlafaxine hydrochloride, desvenlafaxine succinate or to any excipients in the formulation [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )]. taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including the MAOIs linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) because of the risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.11 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), and Drug Interactions ( 7.1) ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are contraindicated in patients: • with known hypersensitivity to venlafaxine hydrochloride, desvenlafaxine succinate or to any excipients in the formulation [see ] . • taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including the MAOIs linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) because of the risk of serotonin syndrome [see , , and ] . • Hypersensitivity to venlafaxine hydrochloride, desvenlafaxine succinate, or any excipients in the venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules formulation ( 4 ). • Concomitant use of monoaminoxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of discontinuing an MAOI ( 4 , , ). The use of venlafaxine tabletswithin 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are contraindicated in patients: • with known hypersensitivity to venlafaxine hydrochloride, desvenlafaxine succinate or to any excipients in the formulation [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )]. • taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including the MAOIs linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) because of the risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.11 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with venlafaxine hydrochloride or within 7 days of stopping treatment with venlafaxine hydrochloride is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of venlafaxine hydrochloride within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION )
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions As with all drugs, the potential for interaction by a variety of mechanisms is a possibility. Alcohol A single dose of ethanol (0.5 g/kg) had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of venlafaxine or ODV when venlafaxine was administered at 150 mg/day in 15 healthy male subjects. Additionally, administration of venlafaxine in a stable regimen did not exaggerate the psychomotor and psychometric effects induced by ethanol in these same subjects when they were not receiving venlafaxine. Cimetidine Concomitant administration of cimetidine and venlafaxine in a steady-state study for both drugs resulted in inhibition of first-pass metabolism of venlafaxine in 18 healthy subjects. The oral clearance of venlafaxine was reduced by about 43%, and the exposure (AUC) and maximum concentration (C max ) of the drug were increased by about 60%. However, coadministration of cimetidine had no apparent effect on the pharmacokinetics of ODV, which is present in much greater quantity in the circulation than is venlafaxine. The overall pharmacological activity of venlafaxine plus ODV is expected to increase only slightly, and no dosage adjustment should be necessary for most normal adults. However, for patients with preexisting hypertension, and for elderly patients or patients with hepatic dysfunction, the interaction associated with the concomitant use of venlafaxine and cimetidine is not known and potentially could be more pronounced. Therefore, caution is advised with such patients. Diazepam Under steady-state conditions for venlafaxine administered at 150 mg/day, a single 10 mg dose of diazepam did not appear to affect the pharmacokinetics of either venlafaxine or ODV in 18 healthy male subjects. Venlafaxine also did not have any effect on the pharmacokinetics of diazepam or its active metabolite, desmethyldiazepam, or affect the psychomotor and psychometric effects induced by diazepam. Haloperidol Venlafaxine administered under steady-state conditions at 150 mg/day in 24 healthy subjects decreased total oral-dose clearance (Cl/F) of a single 2 mg dose of haloperidol by 42%, which resulted in a 70% increase in haloperidol AUC. In addition, the haloperidol C max increased 88% when coadministered with venlafaxine, but the haloperidol elimination half-life (t 1/2 ) was unchanged. The mechanism explaining this finding is unknown. Lithium The steady-state pharmacokinetics of venlafaxine administered at 150 mg/day were not affected when a single 600 mg oral dose of lithium was administered to 12 healthy male subjects. O-desmethylvenlafaxine (ODV) also was unaffected. Venlafaxine had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of lithium (see also CNS-Active Drugs , below ). Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Protein Venlafaxine is not highly bound to plasma proteins; therefore, administration of venlafaxine tablets to a patient taking another drug that is highly protein bound should not cause increased free concentrations of the other drug. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., NSAIDs, Aspirin, and Warfarin) Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies of the case-control and cohort design that have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding have also shown that concurrent use of an NSAID or aspirin may potentiate this risk of bleeding. Altered anticoagulant effects, including increased bleeding, have been reported when SSRIs and SNRIs are coadministered with warfarin. Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when venlafaxine is initiated or discontinued. Drugs that Inhibit Cytochrome P450 Isoenzymes CYP2D6 Inhibitors: In vitro and in vivo studies indicate that venlafaxine is metabolized to its active metabolite, ODV, by CYP2D6, the isoenzyme that is responsible for the genetic polymorphism seen in the metabolism of many antidepressants. Therefore, the potential exists for a drug interaction between drugs that inhibit CYP2D6-mediated metabolism and venlafaxine. However, although imipramine partially inhibited the CYP2D6-mediated metabolism of venlafaxine, resulting in higher plasma concentrations of venlafaxine and lower plasma concentrations of ODV, the total concentration of active compounds (venlafaxine plus ODV) was not affected. Additionally, in a clinical study involving CYP2D6-poor and -extensive metabolizers, the total concentration of active compounds (venlafaxine plus ODV), was similar in the two metabolizer groups. Therefore, no dosage adjustment is required when venlafaxine is coadministered with a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Ketoconazole A pharmacokinetic study with ketoconazole 100 mg b.i.d. with a single dose of venlafaxine 50 mg in extensive metabolizers (EM; n = 14) and 25 mg in poor metabolizers (PM; n = 6) of CYP2D6 resulted in higher plasma concentrations of both venlafaxine and O-desvenlafaxine (ODV) in most subjects following administration of ketoconazole. Venlafaxine C max increased by 26% in EM subjects and 48% in PM subjects. C max values for ODV increased by 14% and 29% in EM and PM subjects, respectively. Venlafaxine AUC increased by 21% in EM subjects and 70% in PM subjects (range in PMs - 2% to 206%), and AUC values for ODV increased by 23% and 33% in EM and PM subjects (range in PMs - 38% to 105%) subjects, respectively. Combined AUCs of venlafaxine and ODV increased on average by approximately 23% in EMS and 53% in PMs (range in PMs – 4% to 134%). Concomitant use of CYP3A4 inhibitors and venlafaxine may increase levels of venlafaxine and ODV. Therefore, caution is advised if a patient's therapy includes a CYP3A4 inhibitor and venlafaxine concomitantly. CYP3A4 Inhibitors In vitro studies indicate that venlafaxine is likely metabolized to a minor, less active metabolite, N-desmethylvenlafaxine, by CYP3A4. Because CYP3A4 is typically a minor pathway relative to CYP2D6 in the metabolism of venlafaxine, the potential for a clinically significant drug interaction between drugs that inhibit CYP3A4-mediated metabolism and venlafaxine is small. The concomitant use of venlafaxine with a drug treatment(s) that potently inhibits both CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, the primary metabolizing enzymes for venlafaxine, has not been studied. Therefore, caution is advised should a patient's therapy include venlafaxine and any agent(s) that produce potent simultaneous inhibition of these two enzyme systems. Drugs Metabolized by Cytochrome P450 Isoenzymes CYP2D6: In vitro studies indicate that venlafaxine is a relatively weak inhibitor of CYP2D6. These findings have been confirmed in a clinical drug interaction study comparing the effect of venlafaxine to that of fluoxetine on the CYP2D6-mediated metabolism of dextromethorphan to dextrorphan. Imipramine Venlafaxine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of imipramine and 2-OH-imipramine. However, desipramine AUC, C max , and C min increased by about 35% in the presence of venlafaxine. The 2-OH-desipramine AUCs increased by at least 2.5 fold (with venlafaxine 37.5 mg q12h) and by 4.5 fold (with venlafaxine 75 mg q12h). Imipramine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of venlafaxine and ODV. The clinical significance of elevated 2-OH-desipramine levels is unknown. Metoprolol Concomitant administration of venlafaxine (50 mg every 8 hours for 5 days) and metoprolol (100 mg every 24 hours for 5 days) to 18 healthy male subjects in a pharmacokinetic interaction study for both drugs resulted in an increase of plasma concentrations of metoprolol by approximately 30 to 40% without altering the plasma concentrations of its active metabolite, α-hydroxymetoprolol. Metoprolol did not alter the pharmacokinetic profile of venlafaxine or its active metabolite, O-desmethylvenlafaxine. Venlafaxine appeared to reduce the blood pressure lowering effect of metoprolol in this study. The clinical relevance of this finding for hypertensive patients is unknown. Caution should be exercised with coadministration of venlafaxine and metoprolol. Venlafaxine treatment has been associated with dose-related increases in blood pressure in some patients. It is recommended that patients receiving venlafaxine tablets have regular monitoring of blood pressure (see WARNINGS ). Risperidone Venlafaxine administered under steady-state conditions at 150 mg/day slightly inhibited the CYP2D6-mediated metabolism of risperidone (administered as a single 1 mg oral dose) to its active metabolite, 9-hydroxyrisperidone, resulting in an approximate 32% increase in risperidone AUC. However, venlafaxine coadministration did not significantly alter the pharmacokinetic profile of the total active moiety (risperidone plus 9-hydroxyrisperidone). CYP3A4 Venlafaxine did not inhibit CYP3A4 in vitro . This finding was confirmed in vivo by clinical drug interaction studies in which venlafaxine did not inhibit the metabolism of several CYP3A4 substrates, including alprazolam, diazepam, and terfenadine. Indinavir In a study of 9 healthy volunteers, venlafaxine administered under steady-state conditions at 150 mg/day resulted in a 28% decrease in the AUC of a single 800 mg oral dose of indinavir and a 36% decrease in indinavir C max . Indinavir did not affect the pharmacokinetics of venlafaxine and ODV. The clinical significance of this finding is unknown. CYP1A2 Venlafaxine did not inhibit CYP1A2 in vitro . This finding was confirmed in vivo by a clinical drug interaction study in which venlafaxine did not inhibit the metabolism of caffeine, a CYP1A2 substrate. CYP2C9 Venlafaxine did not inhibit CYP2C9 in vitro . In vivo , venlafaxine 75 mg by mouth every 12 hours did not alter the pharmacokinetics of a single 500 mg dose of tolbutamide or the CYP2C9 mediated formation of 4-hydroxy-tolbutamide. CYP2C19 Venlafaxine did not inhibit the metabolism of diazepam which is partially metabolized by CYP2C19 (see Diazepam above). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors See CONTRAINDICATIONS . CNS-Active Drugs The risk of using venlafaxine in combination with other CNS-active drugs has not been systematically evaluated (except in the case of those CNS-active drugs noted above). Consequently, caution is advised if the concomitant administration of venlafaxine and such drugs is required. (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Table 15: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) Clinical Impact The concomitant use of SNRIs, including venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules, with MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration (2.11) , Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules with other serotonergic drugs (including other SNRIs, SSRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan, and St.John's Wort) increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Monitor for symptoms of serotonin syndrome when venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is used concomitantly with other drugs that may affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter systems. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Dosage and Administration (2.11) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules with an antiplatelet or anticoagulant drug may potentiate the risk of bleeding. This may be due to the effect of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules on the release of serotonin by platelets. Intervention Closely monitor for bleeding for patients receiving an antiplatelet or anticoagulant drug when venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Effect of CYP3A Inhibitors Clinical Impact Concomitant use of a CYP3A inhibitor increases the C max and AUC of venlafaxine and O-desmethylvenlafaxine (ODV) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of toxicity of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules. Intervention Consider reducing the dose of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules. CYP2D6 Substrates Clinical Impact Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules increases C max and AUC of a CYP2D6 substrate, which may increase the risk of toxicity of the CYP2D6 substrate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention Consider reduction in dose of concomitant CYP2D6 substrates. 7.2 Other Drug Interactions with Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Central Nervous System (CNS)-Active Drugs The risk of using venlafaxine concomitantly with other CNS-active drugs (including alcohol) has not been systematically evaluated. Consequently, caution is advised when venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are taken concomitantly in combination with other CNS-active drugs. Weight Loss Agents Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules and weight loss agents is not recommended. The safety and efficacy of venlafaxine therapy in combination with weight loss agents, including phentermine, have not been established. Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are not indicated for weight loss alone or in combination with other products. Laboratory Test Interference False-positive urine immunoassay screening tests for phencyclidine (PCP) and amphetamine have been reported in patients taking venlafaxine due to lack of specificity of the screening tests. False-positive test results may be expected for several days following discontinuation of venlafaxine therapy. Confirmatory tests, such as gas chromatography/mass spectrometry, will distinguish venlafaxine from PCP and amphetamine. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS MAOI's: concomitant use contraindicated ( 4 ). Avoid MAOI's 14 days before starting venlafaxine and 7 days after stopping venlafaxine ( 5.2 ). Cimetidine: Caution in patients with pre-existing hypertension, in elderly patients and patients with hepatic dysfunction. ( 7.2 ) Haloperidol: Increase in Haloperidol AUC and C max . ( 7.4 ) Ketoconazole: Increase in venlafaxine and O-desmethylvenlafaxine AUC and C max . Caution when using venlafaxine with substances that inhibit both CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. ( 7.7 ) Metoprolol: Possibly reduced blood-pressure lowering effect despite increased metoprolol plasma levels. Caution should be exercised with co-administration of venlafaxine and metoprolol. ( 7.8 ) CNS-active drugs: Caution when using venlafaxine with such drugs. ( 7.10 ) Serotonergic drugs (e.g., triptans, SSRIs, other SNRIs, linezolid, lithium, tramadol, or St. John's Wort): Potential for serotonin syndrome. Careful patient observation advised. ( 7.10 ) Tryptophan supplements: Concomitant use not recommended. ( 7.10 ) 7.1 Alcohol A single dose of ethanol (0.5 g/kg) had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of venlafaxine or O-desmethylvenlafaxine (ODV) when venlafaxine was administered at 150 mg/day in 15 healthy male subjects. 7.2 Cimetidine Concomitant administration of cimetidine and venlafaxine in a steady-state study for both drugs resulted in inhibition of first-pass metabolism of venlafaxine in 18 healthy subjects. However, coadministration of cimetidine had no apparent effect on the pharmacokinetics of ODV, which is present in much greater quantity in the circulation than venlafaxine. However, for patients with pre-existing hypertension, and for elderly patients or patients with hepatic dysfunction, the interaction associated with the concomitant use of venlafaxine and cimetidine is not known and potentially could be more pronounced. 7.3 Diazepam Under steady-state conditions for venlafaxine administered at 150 mg/day, a single 10 mg dose of diazepam did not appear to affect the pharmacokinetics of either venlafaxine or ODV in 18 healthy male subjects. 7.4 Haloperidol Venlafaxine administered under steady-state conditions at 150 mg/day in 24 healthy subjects decreased total oral-dose clearance (Cl/F) of a single 2 mg dose of haloperidol by 42%, which resulted in a 70% increase in haloperidol AUC. 7.5 Lithium The steady-state pharmacokinetics of venlafaxine administered at 150 mg/day were not affected when a single 600 mg oral dose of lithium was administered to 12 healthy male subjects. ODV also was unaffected. Venlafaxine had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of lithium (see also CNS-Active Drugs, below). 7.6 Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Proteins Venlafaxine is not highly bound to plasma proteins; therefore, administration of venlafaxine extended-release tablets to a patient taking another drug that is highly protein bound should not cause increased free concentrations of the other drug. 7.7 Drugs that Inhibit Cytochrome P450 Isoenzymes CYP2D6 Inhibitors: In vitro and in vivo studies indicate that venlafaxine is metabolized to its active metabolite, ODV, by CYP2D6, the isoenzyme that is responsible for the genetic polymorphism seen in the metabolism of many antidepressants. Therefore, the potential exists for a drug interaction between drugs that inhibit CYP2D6-mediated metabolism of venlafaxine, reducing the metabolism of venlafaxine to ODV, resulting in increased plasma concentrations of venlafaxine and decreased concentrations of the active metabolite. CYP2D6 inhibitors such as quinidine would be expected to do this, but the effect would be similar to what is seen in patients who are genetically CYP2D6 poor metabolizers [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Ketoconazole: A pharmacokinetic study with ketoconazole 100 mg b.i.d. with a single dose of venlafaxine 50 mg in extensive metabolizers (EM; n=14) and 25 mg in poor metabolizers (PM; n=6) of CYP2D6 resulted in higher plasma concentrations of both venlafaxine and O-desmethylvenlafaxine (ODV) in most subjects following administration of ketoconazole. Venlafaxine AUC increased by 21% in EM subjects and 70% in PM subjects (range in PM's -2% to 206%), and AUC values for ODV increased by 23% and 33% in EM and PM (range in PM's 38% to 105%) subjects, respectively. Combined AUC's of venlafaxine and ODV increased on average by approximately 23% in EM's and 53% in PM's, (range in PM's 4% to 134%). 7.8 Drugs Metabolized by Cytochrome P450 Isoenzymes CYP2D6 In vitro studies indicate that venlafaxine is a relatively weak inhibitor of CYP2D6. These findings have been confirmed in a clinical drug interaction study comparing the effect of venlafaxine with that of fluoxetine on the CYP2D6-mediated metabolism of dextromethorphan to dextrorphan. Imipramine - Venlafaxine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of imipramine and 2-OH-imipramine. The 2-OH-desipramine AUC's increased by at least 2.5 fold (with venlafaxine 37.5 mg q12h) and by 4.5 fold (with venlafaxine 75 mg q12h). Metoprolol - Concomitant administration of venlafaxine (50 mg every 8 hours for 5 days) and metoprolol (100 mg every 24 hours for 5 days) to 18 healthy male subjects in a pharmacokinetic interaction study for both drugs resulted in an increase of plasma concentrations of metoprolol by approximately 30-40% without altering the plasma concentrations of its active metabolite, α-hydroxymetoprolol. It is recommended that patients receiving venlafaxine extended-release tablets have regular monitoring of blood pressure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ]. Risperidone - Venlafaxine administered under steady-state conditions at 150 mg/day slightly inhibited the CYP2D6-mediated metabolism of risperidone (administered as a single 1 mg oral dose) to its active metabolite, 9-hydroxyrisperidone, resulting in an approximate 32% increase in risperidone AUC. Indinavir - In a study of 9 healthy volunteers, venlafaxine administered under steady-state conditions at 150 mg/day resulted in a 28% decrease in the AUC of a single 800 mg oral dose of indinavir and a 36% decrease in indinavir C max . CYP2C19 Venlafaxine did not inhibit the metabolism of diazepam, which is partially metabolized by CYP2C19 (see Diazepam above). 7.9 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) [See Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 and 2.7 ), Contraindications ( 4.1 ), and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) .] 7.10 Other Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of serotonergic drugs (including other SNRIs, SSRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan, and St. John’s Wort) with venlafaxine extended-release tablets increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of venlafaxine extended-release tablets and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] 7.11 Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., NSAID's, Aspirin, and Warfarin) Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies of the case-control and cohort design that have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding. These studies have also shown that concurrent use of an NSAID or aspirin may potentiate this risk of bleeding. Altered anticoagulant effects, including increased bleeding, have been reported when SSRI's and SNRI's are coadministered with warfarin. Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when venlafaxine extended-release tablets are initiated or discontinued [s ee Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 ) ]. 7.12 Electroconvulsive Therapy There are no clinical data establishing the benefit of electroconvulsive therapy combined with venlafaxine extended-release tablets treatment. 7.13 Postmarketing Spontaneous Drug Interaction Reports There have been reports of elevated clozapine levels that were temporally associated with adverse reactions, including seizures, following the addition of venlafaxine. There have been reports of increases in prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, or INR when venlafaxine was given to patients receiving warfarin therapy. 7.14 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions False-positive urine immunoassay screening tests for phencyclidine (PCP) and amphetamine have been reported in patients taking venlafaxine. This is due to lack of specificity of the screening tests. False positive test results may be expected for several days following discontinuation of venlafaxine therapy. Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules with other serotonergic drugs (including other SNRIs, SSRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan, and St. John's Wort) increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Closely monitor for bleeding for patients receiving an antiplatelet or anticoagulant drug when venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Intervention Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.11 ), Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules with other serotonergic drugs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Monitor for symptoms of serotonin syndrome when venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are used concomitantly with other drugs that may affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter systems. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.11 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Intervention Closely monitor for bleeding for patients receiving an antiplatelet or anticoagulant drug when venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . Effect of CYP3A Inhibitors Clinical Impact Concomitant use of a CYP3A inhibitor increases the C max and AUC of venlafaxine and O-desmethylvenlafaxine (ODV) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may increase the risk of toxicity of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules Intervention Consider reducing the dose of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules. CYP2D6 Substrates Clinical Impact Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules increases C max and AUC of a CYP2D6 substrate, which may increase the risk of toxicity of the CYP2D6 substrate [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see , Contraindications (4) and ]. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see and ]. Intervention Closely monitor for bleeding for patients receiving an antiplatelet or anticoagulant drug when venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is initiated or discontinued [see ] . Effect of CYP3A Inhibitors Clinical Impact Concomitant use of a CYP3A inhibitor increases the C max and AUC of venlafaxine and O-desmethylvenlafaxine (ODV) [see ] , which may increase the risk of toxicity of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules. CYP2D6 Substrates Clinical Impact Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules increases C max and AUC of a CYP2D6 substrate, which may increase the risk of toxicity of the CYP2D6 substrate [see ] . However, co-administration of cimetidine had no apparent effect on the pharmacokinetics of ODV, which is present in much greater quantity in the circulation than is venlafaxine. Venlafaxine had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of lithium ( see also CNS-Active Drugs, below ). Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when venlafaxine tabletsis initiated or discontinued. Additionally, in a clinical study involving CYP2D6-poor and –extensive metabolizers, the total concentration of active compounds (venlafaxine plus ODV), was similar in the two metabolizer groups. Venlafaxine AUC increased by 21% in EM subjects and 70% in PM subjects (range in PMs – 2% to 206%), and AUC values for ODV increased by 23% and 33% in EM and PM subjects (range in PMs – 38% to 105%) subjects, respectively. Combined AUCs of venlafaxine and ODV increased on average by approximately 23% in Ems and 53% in PMs (range in PMs 4% to 134%). CYP3A4 Inhibitors: In vitro studies indicate that venlafaxine is likely metabolized to a minor, less active metabolite, N-desmethylvenlafaxine, by CYP3A4. Imipramine: Venlafaxine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of imipramine and 2-OH-imipramine. Metoprolol: Concomitant administration of venlafaxine (50 mg every 8 hours for 5 days) and metoprolol (100 mg every 24 hours for 5 days) to 18 healthy male subjects in a pharmacokinetic interaction study for both drugs resulted in an increase of plasma concentrations of metoprolol by approximately 30-40% without altering the plasma concentrations of its active metabolite, ⛙-hydroxymetoprolol. Risperidone: Venlafaxine administered under steady-state conditions at 150 mg/day slightly inhibited the CYP2D6-mediated metabolism of risperidone (administered as a single 1 mg oral dose) to its active metabolite, 9-hydroxyrisperidone, resulting in an approximate 32% increase in risperidone AUC. CYP3A4: Venlafaxine did not inhibit CYP3A4 in vitro. Indinavir: In a study of 9 healthy volunteers, venlafaxine administered under steady-state conditions at 150 mg/day resulted in a 28% decrease in the AUC of a single 800 mg oral dose of indinavir and a 36% decrease in indinavir C max . CYP1A2: Venlafaxine did not inhibit CYP1A2 in vitro. CYP2C9: Venlafaxine did not inhibit CYP2C9 in vitro. In vivo, venlafaxine 75 mg by mouth every 12 hours did not alter the pharmacokinetics of a single 500 mg dose of tolbutamide or the CYP2C9 mediated formation of 4-hydroxy-tolbutamide. CYP2C19: Venlafaxine did not inhibit the metabolism of diazepam which is partially metabolized by CYP2C19 (see Diazepam above). (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ) Serotonergic Drugs: Based on the mechanism of action of SNRIs and SSRIs, including venlafaxine hydrochloride, and the potential for serotonin syndrome, caution is advised when venlafaxine is coadministered with other drugs that may affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter systems, such as triptans, lithium, fentanyl, tramadol, amphetamines, or St. John’s Wort (see WARNINGS: Serotonin Syndrome ). If concomitant treatment of venlafaxine tablets with these drugs is clinically warranted, careful observation of the patient is advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS, Serotonin Syndrome ). The concomitant use of venlafaxine tablets with tryptophan supplements is not recommended (see WARNINGS, Serotonin Syndrome ). Triptans: There have been rare postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome with use of an SSRI and a triptan. If concomitant treatment of venlafaxine tabletswith a triptan is clinically warranted, careful observation of the patient is advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases (see WARNINGS, Serotonin Syndrome ). Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions False-positive urine immunoassay screening tests for phencyclidine (PCP) and amphetamine have been reported in patients taking venlafaxine. Electroconvulsive Therapy: There are no clinical data establishing the benefit of electroconvulsive therapy combined with venlafaxine tablet treatment. Postmarketing Spontaneous Drug Interaction Reports See ADVERSE REACTIONS, Postmarketing Reports . Intervention Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.11 ), Contraindications( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Effect of CYP3A Inhibitors Clinical Impact Concomitant use of a CYP3A inhibitor increases the C max and AUC of venlafaxine and O-desmethylvenlafaxine (ODV) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may increase the risk of toxicity of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules. CYP2D6 Substrates Clinical Impact Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules increases C max and AUC of a CYP2D6 substrate, which may increase the risk of toxicity of the CYP2D6 substrate [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Venlafaxine had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of lithium (see also CNS-Active Drugs , below). Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Protein Venlafaxine is not highly bound to plasma proteins; therefore, administration of venlafaxine hydrochloride to a patient taking another drug that is highly protein bound should not cause increased free concentrations of the other drug. Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when venlafaxine hydrochloride is initiated or discontinued. Drugs that Inhibit Cytochrome P450 Isoenzymes CYP2D6 Inhibitors In vitro and in vivo studies indicate that venlafaxine is metabolized to its active metabolite, ODV, by CYP2D6, the isoenzyme that is responsible for the genetic polymorphism seen in the metabolism of many antidepressants. with a single dose of venlafaxine 50 mg in extensive metabolizers (EM; n = 14) and and 25 mg in poor metabolizers (PM; n = 6) of CYP2D6, respectively, resulted in higher plasma concentrations of both venlafaxine and O-desvenlafaxine (ODV) in most subjects following administration of ketoconazole. Venlafaxine AUC increased by 21% in EM subjects and 70% in PM subjects (range in PMs - 2% to 206%), and AUC values for ODV increased by 23% and 33% in EM and PM (range in PMs - 38% to 105%) subjects, respectively. Combined AUCs of venlafaxine and ODV increased on average by approximately 23% in EMs and 53% in PMs, (range in PMs 4% to 134%). Drugs Metabolized by Cytochrome P450 Isoenzymes CYP2D6 In vitro studies indicate that venlafaxine is a relatively weak inhibitor of CYP2D6. Metoprolol Concomitant administration of venlafaxine (50 mg every 8 hours for 5 days) and metoprolol (100 mg every 24 hours for 5 days) to 18 healthy male subjects in a pharmacokinetic interaction study for both drugs resulted in an increase of plasma concentrations of metoprolol by approximately 30-40% without altering the plasma concentrations of its active metabolite, α-hydroxymetoprolol. It is recommended that patients receiving venlafaxine hydrochloride have regular monitoring of blood pressure (see WARNINGS ). CYP2C9 Venlafaxine did not inhibit CYP2C9 in vitro. Consequently, caution is advised if the concomitant administration of venlafaxine and such drugs is required (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ) . Serotonergic Drugs Based on the mechanism of action of SNRIs and SSRIs, including venlafaxine hydrochloride and the potential for serotonin syndrome, caution is advised when venlafaxine is co-administered with other drugs that may affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter systems, such as triptans, lithium, fentanyl, tramadol, amphetamines, or St. John's Wort (see WARNINGS; Serotonin Syndrome ). If concomitant treatment of venlafaxine with these drugs is clinically warranted, careful observation of the patient is advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS, Serotonin Syndrome ). The concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride with tryptophan supplements is not recommended (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS, Serotonin Syndrome ). Triptans There have been rare postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome with use of an SSRI and a triptan. If concomitant treatment of venlafaxine with a triptan is clinically warranted, careful observation of the patient is advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases (see WARNINGS, Serotonin Syndrome ). Electroconvulsive Therapy There are no clinical data establishing the benefit of electroconvulsive therapy combined with venlafaxine hydrochloride treatment.

=== ALLOPURINOL ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Allopurinol tablets are indicated for: The management of adults with signs and symptoms of primary or secondary gout (acute attacks, tophi, joint destruction, uric acid lithiasis, and/or nephropathy) The management of adult and pediatric patients with leukemia, lymphoma and solid tumor malignancies who are receiving cancer therapy which causes elevations of serum and urinary uric acid levels The management of adult patients with recurrent calcium oxalate calculi whose daily uric acid excretion exceeds 800 mg/day in male patients and 750 mg/day in female patients, despite lifestyle changes (such as reduction of dietary sodium, non-dairy animal protein, oxylate rich foods, refined sugars and increases in oral fluids and fruits and vegetables) Limitations of Use Allopurinol tablets are not recommended for the treatment of asymptomatic hyperuricemia. Allopurinol tablets are a xanthine oxidase inhibitor indicated for the management of: Adult patients with signs and symptoms of primary or secondary gout (acute attacks, tophi, joint destruction, uric acid lithiasis, and/or nephropathy) ( 1 ) Adult and pediatric patients with leukemia, lymphoma and solid tumor malignancies who are receiving cancer therapy which causes elevations of serum and urinary uric acid levels ( 1 ) Adult patients with recurrent calcium oxalate calculi whose daily uric acid excretion exceeds 800 mg/day in male patients and 750 mg/day in female patients, despite lifestyle changes ( 1 ) Limitations of Use Allopurinol tablets are not recommended for the treatment of asymptomatic hyperuricemia. ( 1 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE THIS IS NOT AN INNOCUOUS DRUG. IT IS NOT RECOMMENDED FOR THE TREATMENT OF ASYMPTOMATIC HYPERURICEMIA. Allopurinol tablets, USP reduces serum and urinary uric acid concentrations. Its use should be individualized for each patient and requires an understanding of its mode of action and pharmacokinetics (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS ). Allopurinol tablets, USP are indicated in: the management of patients with signs and symptoms of primary or secondary gout (acute attacks, tophi, joint destruction, uric acid lithiasis, and/or nephropathy). the management of patients with leukemia, lymphoma and malignancies who are receiving cancer therapy which causes elevations of serum and urinary uric acid levels. Treatment with allopurinol tablets, USP should be discontinued when the potential for overproduction of uric acid is no longer present. the management of patients with recurrent calcium oxalate calculi whose daily uric acid excretion exceeds 800 mg/day in male patients and 750 mg/day in female patients. Therapy in such patients should be carefully assessed initially and reassessed periodically to determine in each case that treatment is beneficial and that the benefits outweigh the risks. Allopurinol tablets USP reduces serum and urinary uric acid concentrations. Allopurinol tablet USP is indicated in: the management of patients with signs and symptoms of primary or secondary gout (acute attacks, tophi, joint destruction, uric acid lithiasis, and/or nephropathy). Treatment with allopurinol tablets USP should be discontinued when the potential for overproduction of uric acid is no longer present. Allopurinol reduces serum and urinary uric acid concentrations. Allopurinol is indicated in: 1. the management of patients with signs and symptoms of primary or secondary gout (acute attacks, tophi, joint destruction, uric acid lithiasis and/or nephropathy). 2. Treatment with allopurinol should be discontinued when the potential for overproduction of uric acid is no longer present. 3. 1. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Allopurinol tablets are indicated for: • The management of adults with signs and symptoms of primary or secondary gout (acute attacks, tophi, joint destruction, uric acid lithiasis, and/or nephropathy) • The management of adult and pediatric patients with leukemia, lymphoma and solid tumor malignancies who are receiving cancer therapy which causes elevations of serum and urinary uric acid levels • The management of adult patients with recurrent calcium oxalate calculi whose daily uric acid excretion exceeds 800 mg/day in male patients and 750 mg/day in female patients, despite lifestyle changes (such as reduction of dietary sodium, non-dairy animal protein, oxylate rich foods, refined sugars and increases in oral fluids and fruits and vegetables) Limitations of Use Allopurinol tablets are not recommended for the treatment of asymptomatic hyperuricemia. Allopurinol tablets are xanthine oxidase inhibitor indicated for the management of: • Adult patients with signs and symptoms of primary or secondary gout (acute attacks, tophi, joint destruction, uric acid lithiasis, and/or nephropathy) (1) • Adult and pediatric patients with leukemia, lymphoma and solid tumor malignancies who are receiving cancer therapy which causes elevations of serum and urinary uric acid levels (1) • Adult patients with recurrent calcium oxalate calculi whose daily uric acid excretion exceeds 800 mg/day in male patients and 750 mg/day in female patients, despite lifestyle changes (1) Limitations of Use Allopurinol tablets are not recommended for the treatment of asymptomatic hyperuricemia. (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Allopurinol tablets are indicated for: • The management of adults with signs and symptoms of primary or secondary gout (acute attacks, tophi, joint destruction, uric acid lithiasis, and/or nephropathy) • The management of adult and pediatric patients with leukemia, lymphoma and solid tumor malignancies who are receiving cancer therapy which causes elevations of serum and urinary uric acid levels • The management of adult patients with recurrent calcium oxalate calculi whose daily uric acid excretion exceeds 800 mg/day in male patients and 750 mg/day in female patients, despite lifestyle changes (such as reduction of dietary sodium, non-dairy animal protein, oxylate rich foods, refined sugars and increases in oral fluids and fruits and vegetables) Limitations of Use Allopurinol tablets are not recommended for the treatment of asymptomatic hyperuricemia. Allopurinol tablets is a xanthine oxidase inhibitor indicated for the management of: • Adult patients with signs and symptoms of primary or secondary gout (acute attacks, tophi, joint destruction, uric acid lithiasis, and/or nephropathy) (1) • Adult and pediatric patients with leukemia, lymphoma and solid tumor malignancies who are receiving cancer therapy which causes elevations of serum and urinary uric acid levels ( 1 ) • Adult patients with recurrent calcium oxalate calculi whose daily uric acid excretion exceeds 800 mg/day in male patients and 750 mg/day in female patients, despite lifestyle changes ( 1 ) Limitations of Use Allopurinol is not recommended for the treatment of asymptomatic hyperuricemia. Allopurinol tablets reduce serum and urinary uric acid concentrations. Allopurinol tablets are indicated in: 1. the management of patients with signs and symptoms of primary or secondary gout (acute attacks, tophi, joint destruction, uric acid lithiasis, and/or nephropathy). Treatment with allopurinol tablets should be discontinued when the potential for overproduction of uric acid is no longer present. Its use should be individualized for each patient and requires an understanding of its mode of action and pharmacokinetics (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ). Allopurinol is indicated in: the management of patients with signs and symptoms of primary or secondary gout (acute attacks, tophi, joint destruction, uric acid lithiasis, and/or nephropathy). Allopurinol treatment should be discontinued when the potential for overproduction of uric acid is no longer present. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Allopurinol Tablets are indicated for: The management of adults with signs and symptoms of primary or secondary gout (acute attacks, tophi, joint destruction, uric acid lithiasis, and/or nephropathy)� The management of adult and pediatric patients with leukemia, lymphoma and solid tumor malignancies who are receiving cancer therapy which causes elevations of serum and urinary uric acid levels The management of adult patients with recurrent calcium oxalate calculi whose daily uric acid excretion exceeds 800 mg/day in male patients and 750 mg/day in female patients, despite lifestyle changes (such as reduction of dietary sodium, non-dairy animal protein, oxylate rich foods, refined sugars and increases in oral fluids and fruits and vegetables) Limitations of Use Allopurinol Tablets are not recommended for the treatment of asymptomatic hyperuricemia. Allopurinol Tablets are xanthine oxidase inhibitor indicated for the management of: Adult patients with signs and symptoms of primary or secondary gout (acute attacks, tophi, joint destruction, uric acid lithiasis, and/or nephropathy) ( 1 ) Adult and pediatric patients with leukemia, lymphoma and solid tumor malignancies who are receiving cancer therapy which causes elevations of serum and urinary uric acid levels ( 1 ) Adult patients with recurrent calcium oxalate calculi whose daily uric acid excretion exceeds 800 mg/day in male patients and 750 mg/day in female patients, despite lifestyle changes ( 1 ) Limitations of Use Allopurinol Tablets are not recommended for the treatment of asymptomatic hyperuricemia. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ALOPRIM is indicated for the management of adult and pediatric patients with leukemia, lymphoma, and solid tumor malignancies who are receiving cancer therapy which causes elevations of serum and urinary uric acid levels and who cannot tolerate oral therapy. ALOPRIM is a xanthine oxidase inhibitor indicated for the management of adult and pediatric patients with leukemia, lymphoma, and solid tumor malignancies who are receiving cancer therapy which causes elevations of serum and urinary uric acid levels and who cannot tolerate oral therapy.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Gout : Prior to initiating treatment assess serum uric acid level, complete blood count, chemistry panel, liver and kidney function tests. Prophylactic treatment for gout flares is recommended. ( 2.1 , 2.2 ) Patients with normal kidney function: Initial dosage is 100 mg orally daily. Increase by 100 mg weekly increments until serum uric acid of 6 mg/dl or less is reached (maximum 800 mg daily). ( 2.3 ) Patients with impaired kidney function: The initial dosage is 50 mg orally daily. Follow recommendations for titration in patients with renal impairment until target serum uric acid level is reached. ( 2.6 ) See complete information in the Full Prescribing Information (FPI). Hyperuricemia Associated with Cancer Therapy : The recommended dosage is: Adults: 300 mg to 800 mg orally daily. Pediatric patients: 100 mg/m 2 orally every 8 hours to 12 hours (10 mg/kg/day, maximum 800 mg/day) See complete information in the FPI. ( 2.4 , 2.6 ) Recurrent Calcium Oxalate Calculi : The recommended initial dosage in patients with normal kidney function is 200 mg to 300 mg orally daily. ( 2.5 ) Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment: See FPI for dosage modifications in patients with renal impairment. ( 2.6 ) 2.1 Recommended Testing Prior to Treatment Initiation Prior to initiating treatment with allopurinol tablets in patients with gout, assess the following baseline tests: serum uric acid level, complete blood count, chemistry panel, liver function tests (serum alanine aminotransferase [ALT], aspartate aminotransferase [AST], alkaline phosphatase, and total bilirubin), kidney function tests (serum creatinine and eGFR). 2.2 Recommended Prophylaxis for Gout Flares Gout flares may occur after initiation of allopurinol tablets due to changing serum uric acid levels resulting in mobilization of urate from tissue deposits. Flare prophylaxis with colchicine or an anti- inflammatory agent according to practice guidelines is recommended upon initiation of allopurinol tablets. While adjusting the dosage of allopurinol tablets in patients who are being treated with colchicine and/or anti-inflammatory agents, continue flare prophylaxis drugs until serum uric acid has been normalized and the patient has been free of gout flares for several months. If a gout flare occurs during allopurinol tablets treatment, allopurinol tablets need not be discontinued. Manage the gout flare concurrently, as appropriate for the individual patient [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Gout The initial recommended dosage for the management of gout is 100 mg orally daily, with weekly increments of 100 mg, until a serum uric acid level of 6 mg/dL or less is reached. Initiating treatment with lower dosages of allopurinol tablets and titrating slowly, decreases the risk of gout flares and drug induced serious adverse reactions. In patients with renal impairment the initial dosage is 50 mg orally daily with lower dose increases until serum uric acid level of 6 mg/dL or less is reached. For complete dosage recommendations for patients with renal impairment see Table 1 [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )]. The minimal effective dosage is 100 mg to 200 mg daily and the maximal recommended dosage is 800 mg daily. The appropriate dosage may be administered in divided doses or as a single equivalent dose with the 300 mg tablet. Doses in excess of 300 mg should be administered in divided doses. Monitor patients’ kidney function during the early stages of administration of allopurinol tablets and decrease the dosage or withdraw the drug if persistent abnormalities in kidney function occur [see Dosage and Administration (2.6), Warnings and Precautions (5.3), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. The dosage of allopurinol tablets to achieve control of gout varies with the severity of the disease. In general, gout control is achieved with 200 mg to 300 mg daily in patients with mild gout, and with 400 mg to 600 mg daily in patients with moderate to severe tophaceous gout. Gout attacks usually become shorter and less severe after several months of therapy. If a dose of allopurinol tablets is missed, there is no need to double the dose at the next scheduled time. Allopurinol tablets is generally better tolerated if taken following meals. A fluid intake sufficient to yield a daily urinary output of at least 2 liters and the maintenance of a neutral or preferably, slightly alkaline urine are desirable. Inform patients of the possibility of gout flares [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Instruct them to remain on allopurinol tablets if this occurs and to increase fluid intake during therapy to prevent kidney stones. Concurrent Use of Uricosuric Agents Some patients, may benefit using uricosuric agents concurrently, to reduce serum uric acid to target levels. When transferring a patient from a uricosuric agent to allopurinol tablets, reduce the dose of the uricosuric agent over a period of several weeks and increase the dose of allopurinol tablets gradually to the required dose needed to maintain target serum uric acid level. 2.4 Recommended Dosage for Hyperuricemia Associated with Cancer Therapy Initiate therapy with allopurinol tablets 24 hours to 48 hours before the start of chemotherapy known to cause tumor cell lysis. Administer fluids sufficient to yield a daily urinary output of at least 2 liters in adults (at least 100 mL/m 2 /hour in pediatric patients) with a neutral or, preferably, slightly alkaline urine. The recommended dosage of allopurinol tablets is: Adult patients – 300 mg to 800 mg orally daily Pediatric patients - 100 mg/m 2 orally every 8 hours to 12 hours (10 mg/kg/day, maximum 800 mg/day). In patients with body surface area < 0.5 m 2 , consider using an alternative allopurinol formulation. The dosage of allopurinol tablets to maintain normal or near-normal serum uric acid varies with the severity of the disease. Monitor serum uric acid levels at least daily and administer allopurinol tablets at a dose and frequency to maintain the serum uric acid within the normal range. Discontinue allopurinol tablets when the risk of tumor lysis has abated (2 days to 3 days from start of chemotherapy). For complete dosage recommendations for patients with renal impairment, see Table 2 [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )] . 2.5 Recommended Dosage for Management of Recurrent Calcium Oxalate Calculi in Hyperuricosuric Patients The recommended dosage for the management of recurrent calcium oxalate stones in hyperuricosuric patients is 200 mg to 300 mg orally daily in divided doses or as the single equivalent. This dose may be adjusted depending upon the resultant control of the hyperuricosuria based upon subsequent 24-hour urinary urate determinations. 2.6 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment The recommended initial dosages of allopurinol tablets in adult patients with renal impairment are shown in Tables 1 and 2 [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . Patients with Gout The recommended initial dosages in adult patients with gout with impaired kidney function are shown in Table 1 [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. Initiate treatment with a lower dose of allopurinol tablets and increase the dose gradually in 50 mg/day increments every 2 weeks to 4 weeks in patients with renal impairment to decrease the risk of drug induced serious adverse reactions. Use the lowest dose possible to achieve the desired effect on serum and/or urine uric acid. Monitor kidney function in gout patients with chronic kidney disease closely when initiating treatment with allopurinol tablets and decrease or withdraw the drug if increased abnormalities in kidney function appear and persist. Table 1. Recommended Initial Dosage in Adult Patients with Gout eGFR Initial Dosage > 60 mL/minute No dosage modification > 30 to 60 mL/minute 50 mg daily > 15 to 30 mL/minute 50 mg every other day 5 to 15 mL/minute 50 mg twice weekly < 5 mL/minute 50 mg once weekly The maximum dosage that should be used in patients with various levels of renal impairment is not defined at different eGFR levels. Patients with Recurrent Calcium Oxalate Calculi Data are insufficient to provide dosage recommendations for the treatment of recurrent calcium oxalate calculi in patients with renal impairment. Allopurinol and its metabolites are excreted by the kidney, and accumulation of the drug can occur in renal failure [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. Hyperuricemia Associated with Cancer Therapy The recommended dosage of allopurinol tablets for the management of hyperuricemia associated with cancer therapy in adult patients with renal impairment is shown in Table 2 [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. Table 2. Recommended Dosage of Allopurinol Tablets in Adult Patients for Management of Hyperuricemia Associated with Cancer Therapy with Renal Impairment eGFR Recommended Dosage > 20 mL/min to 60 mL/min No dosage modification 10 mL/min to 20 mL/min 200 mg/day < 10 mL/min 100 mg/day On dialysis 50 mg every 12 hours, or 100 mg every 24 hours Treatment with allopurinol tablets has not been studied in pediatric patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR < 20 mL/min) or on dialysis. There is insufficient information to establish dosing for allopurinol tablets in pediatric patients with renal impairment. In these patients, consider the risks and potential benefits before initiating treatment with allopurinol tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of allopurinol tablets to accomplish full control of gout and to lower serum uric acid to normal or near-normal levels varies with the severity of the disease. The average is 200 to 300 mg/day for patients with mild gout and 400 to 600 mg/day for those with moderately severe tophaceous gout. The appropriate dosage may be administered in divided doses or as a single equivalent dose with the 300 mg-tablet. Dosage requirements in excess of 300 mg should be administered in divided doses. The minimal effective dosage is 100 to 200 mg daily and the maximal recommended dosage is 800 mg daily. To reduce the possibility of flare-up of acute gouty attacks, it is recommended that the patient start with a low dose of allopurinol tablets (100 mg daily) and increase at weekly intervals by 100 mg until a serum uric acid level of 6 mg/dL or less is attained but without exceeding the maximal recommended dosage. Normal serum urate levels are usually achieved in 1 to 3 weeks. The upper limit of normal is about 7 mg/dL for men and postmenopausal women and 6 mg/dL for premenopausal women. Too much reliance should not be placed on a single serum uric acid determination since, for technical reasons, estimation of uric acid may be difficult. By selecting the appropriate dosage and, in certain patients, using uricosuric agents concurrently, it is possible to reduce serum uric acid to normal or, if desired, to as low as 2 to 3 mg/dL and keep it there indefinitely. While adjusting the dosage of allopurinol tablets in patients who are being treated with colchicine and/or anti-inflammatory agents, it is wise to continue the latter therapy until serum uric acid has been normalized and there has been freedom from acute gouty attacks for several months. In transferring a patient from a uricosuric agent to allopurinol tablets, the dose of the uricosuric agent should be gradually reduced over a period of several weeks and the dose of allopurinol tablets gradually increased to the required dose needed to maintain a normal serum uric acid level. It should also be noted that allopurinol tablets are generally better tolerated if taken following meals. Since allopurinol and its metabolites are primarily eliminated only by the kidney, accumulation of the drug can occur in renal failure, and the dose of allopurinol tablets should consequently be reduced. With a creatinine clearance of 10 to 20 mL/min, a daily dosage of 200 mg of allopurinol tablets are suitable. When the creatinine clearance is less than 10 mL/min, the daily dosage should not exceed 100 mg. With extreme renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 3 mL/min) the interval between doses may also need to be lengthened. The correct size and frequency of dosage for maintaining the serum uric acid just within the normal range is best determined by using the serum uric acid level as an index. For the prevention of uric acid nephropathy during the vigorous therapy of neoplastic disease, treatment with 600 to 800 mg daily for 2 or 3 days is advisable together with a high fluid intake. Otherwise similar considerations to the above recommendations for treating patients with gout govern the regulation of dosage for maintenance purposes in secondary hyperuricemia. The dose of allopurinol tablets, USP recommended for management of recurrent calcium oxalate stones in hyperuricosuric patients is 200 to 300 mg/day in divided doses or as the single equivalent. This dose may be adjusted up or down depending upon the resultant control of the hyperuricosuria based upon subsequent 24 hour urinary urate determinations. Clinical experience suggests that patients with recurrent calcium oxalate stones may also benefit from dietary changes such as the reduction of animal protein, sodium, refined sugars, oxalate rich foods, and excessive calcium intake, as well as an increase in oral fluids and dietary fiber. Children, 6 to 10 years of age, with secondary hyperuricemia associated with malignancies may be given 300 mg allopurinol tablets daily while those under 6 years are generally given 150 mg daily. The response is evaluated after approximately 48 hours of therapy and a dosage adjustment is made if necessary. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of allopurinol tablets USP to accomplish full control of gout and to lower serum uric acid to normal or near-normal levels varies with the severity of the disease. To reduce the possibility of flare-up of acute gouty attacks, it is recommended that the patient start with a low dose of allopurinol tablets USP (100 mg daily) and increase at weekly intervals by 100 mg until a serum uric acid level of 6 mg/dL or less is attained but without exceeding the maximal recommended dosage. While adjusting the dosage of allopurinol tablets USP in patients who are being treated with colchicine and/or anti-inflammatory agents, it is wise to continue the latter therapy until serum uric acid has been normalized and there has been freedom from acute gouty attacks for several months. In transferring a patient from a uricosuric agent to allopurinol tablets USP, the dose of the uricosuric agent should be gradually reduced over a period of several weeks and the dose of allopurinol tablets USP gradually increased to the required dose needed to maintain a normal serum uric acid level. It should also be noted that allopurinol tablet USP is generally better tolerated if taken following meals. Since allopurinol and its metabolites are primarily eliminated only by the kidney, accumulation of the drug can occur in renal failure, and the dose of allopurinol tablets USP should consequently be reduced. With a creatinine clearance of 10 to 20 mL/min, a daily dosage of 200 mg of allopurinol tablet USP is suitable. The dose of allopurinol tablets USP recommended for management of recurrent calcium oxalate stones in hyperuricosuric patients is 200 to 300 mg/day in divided doses or as the single equivalent. Children, 6 to 10 years of age, with secondary hyperuricemia associated with malignancies may be given 300 mg allopurinol tablets USP daily while those under 6 years are generally given 150 mg daily. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of allopurinol to accomplish full control of gout and to lower serum uric acid to normal or near-normal levels varies with the severity of the disease. The appropriate dosage may be administered in divided doses or as a single equivalent dose with the 300-mg tablet. To reduce the possibility of flare-up of acute gouty attacks, it is recommended that the patient start with a low dose of allopurinol (100 mg daily) and increase at weekly intervals by 100 mg until a serum uric acid level of 6 mg/dL or less is attained but without exceeding the maximal recommended dosage. While adjusting the dosage of allopurinol in patients who are being treated with colchicine and/or anti-inflammatory agents, it is wise to continue the latter therapy until serum uric acid has been normalized and there has been freedom from acute gouty attacks for several months. In transferring a patient from a uricosuric agent to allopurinol, the dose of the uricosuric agent should be gradually reduced over a period of several weeks and the dose of allopurinol gradually increased to the required dose needed to maintain a normal serum uric acid level. It should also be noted that allopurinol is generally better tolerated if taken following meals. A fluid intake sufficient to yield a daily urinary output of at least 2 liters and the maintenance of a neutral or, preferably, slightly alkaline urine are desirable. Since allopurinol and its metabolites are primarily eliminated only by the kidney, accumulation of the drug can occur in renal failure, and the dose of allopurinol should consequently be reduced. With a creatinine clearance of 10 to 20 mL/min, a daily dosage of 200 mg of allopurinol is suitable. The dose of allopurinol recommended for management of recurrent calcium oxalate stones in hyperuricosuric patients is 200 to 300 mg/day in divided doses or as the single equivalent. Clinical experience suggests that patients with recurrent calcium oxalate stones may also benefit from dietary changes such as the reduction of animal protein, sodium, refined sugars, oxalate-rich foods, and excessive calcium intake, as well as an increase in oral fluids and dietary fiber. Children, 6 to 10 years of age, with secondary hyperuricemia associated with malignancies may be given 300 mg allopurinol daily while those under 6 years are generally given 150 mg daily. 2. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Gout : Prior to initiating treatment assess serum uric acid level, complete blood count, chemistry panel, liver and kidney function tests. (2.1, 2.2) - Patients with normal kidney function: Initial dosage is 100 mg orally daily. (2.3) - Patients with impaired kidney function: The initial dosage is 50 mg orally daily. (2.6) - See complete information in the Full Prescribing Information (FPI). • Hyperuricemia Associated with Cancer Therapy : The recommended dosage is: - Adults: 300 mg to 800 mg orally daily. - Pediatric patients: 100 mg/m2 orally every 8 hours to 12 hours (10 mg/kg/day, maximum 800 mg/day) - See complete information in the FPI. (2.4, 2.6) • Recurrent Calcium Oxalate Calculi : The recommended initial dosage in patients with normal kidney function is 200 mg to 300 mg orally daily. (2.5) • Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment: See FPI for dosage modifications in patients with renal impairment. (2.6) 2.1 Recommended Testing Prior to Treatment Initiation Prior to initiating treatment with allopurinol tablets in patients with gout, assess the following baseline tests: serum uric acid level, complete blood count, chemistry panel, liver function tests (serum alanine aminotransferase [ALT], aspartate aminotransferase [AST], alkaline phosphatase, and total bilirubin), kidney function tests (serum creatinine and eGFR). Flare prophylaxis with colchicine or an anti-inflammatory agent according to practice guidelines is recommended upon initiation of allopurinol tablets. Manage the gout flare concurrently, as appropriate for the individual patient [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . For complete dosage recommendations for patients with renal impairment see Table 1 [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)] . Monitor patients’ kidney function during the early stages of administration of allopurinol tablets and decrease the dosage or withdraw the drug if persistent abnormalities in kidney function occur [see Dosage and Administration (2.6), Warnings and Precautions (5.3), Use in Specific Populations (8.6)] . Inform patients of the possibility of gout flares [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . The recommended dosage of allopurinol tablets is: • Adult patients – 300 mg to 800 mg orally daily • Pediatric patients -100 mg/m 2 orally every 8 hours to 12 hours (10 mg/kg/day, maximum 800 mg/day). For complete dosage recommendations for patients with renal impairment, see Table 2 [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)] . 2.6 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment The recommended initial dosages of allopurinol tablets in adult patients with renal impairment are shown in Tables 1 and 2 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)] . Patients with Gout The recommended initial dosages in adult patients with gout with impaired kidney function are shown in Table 1 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)] . Table 1: Recommended Initial Dosage in Adult Patients with Gout eGFR Initial Dosage > 60 mL/minute No dosage modification > 30 to 60 mL/minute 50 mg daily > 15 to 30 mL/minute 50 mg every other day 5 to 15 mL/minute 50 mg twice weekly < 5 mL/minute 50 mg once weekly The maximum dosage that should be used in patients with various levels of renal impairment is not defined at different eGFR levels. Allopurinol and its metabolites are excreted by the kidney, and accumulation of the drug can occur in renal failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6)] . Hyperuricemia Associated with Cancer Therapy The recommended dosage of allopurinol tablets for the management of hyperuricemia associated with cancer therapy in adult patients with renal impairment is shown in Table 2 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)] . Table 2: Recommended Dosage of Allopurinol Tablets in Adult Patients for Management of Hyperuricemia Associated with Cancer Therapy with Renal Impairment eGFR Recommended Dosage > 20 mL/min to 60 mL/min No dosage modification 10 mL/min to 20 mL/min 200 mg/day < 10 mL/minute 100 mg/day On Dialysis 50 mg every 12 hours, or 100 mg every 24 hours Treatment with allopurinol tablets has not been studied in pediatric patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR < 20 mL/min) or on dialysis. In these patients, consider the risks and potential benefits before initiating treatment with allopurinol tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6)] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Gout: Prior to initiating treatment assess serum uric acid level, complete blood count, chemistry panel, liver and kidney function tests. ( 2.1 , 2.2 ) - Patients with normal kidney function: Initial dosage is 100 mg orally daily. ( 2.3 ) - Patients with impaired kidney function: The initial dosage is 50 mg orally daily. ( 2.6 ) - See complete information in the Full Prescribing Information (FPI). • Hyperuricemia Associated with Cancer Therapy: The recommended dosage is: − Adults: 300 mg to 800 mg orally daily. − Pediatric patients: 100 mg/m 2 orally every 8 hours to 12 hours (10 mg/kg/day, maximum 800 mg/day) − See complete information in the FPI. ( 2.4 , 2.6 ) • Recurrent Calcium Oxalate Calculi: The recommended initial dosage in patients with normal kidney function is 200 mg to 300 mg orally daily. ( 2.5 ) • Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment: See FPI for dosage modifications in patients with renal impairment. Manage the gout flare concurrently, as appropriate for the individual patient [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. For complete dosage recommendations for patients with renal impairment see Table 1 [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ]. Monitor patients’ kidney function during the early stages of administration of allopurinol tablets and decrease the dosage or withdraw the drug if persistent abnormalities in kidney function occur [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) , Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. Allopurinol tablets are generally better tolerated if taken following meals. Inform patients of the possibility of gout flares [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. The recommended dosage of allopurinol tablets is: • Adult patients – 300 mg to 800 mg orally daily • Pediatric patients - 100 mg/m 2 orally every 8 hours to 12 hours (10 mg/kg/day, maximum 800 mg/day). For complete dosage recommendations for patients with renal impairment, see Table 2 [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ]. 2.6 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment The recommended initial dosages of allopurinol tablets in adult patients with renal impairment are shown in Tables 1 and 2 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. Patients with Gout The recommended initial dosages in adult patients with gout with impaired kidney function are shown in Table 1 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. Allopurinol and its metabolites are excreted by the kidney, and accumulation of the drug can occur in renal failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. Hyperuricemia Associated with Cancer Therapy The recommended dosage of allopurinol tablets for the management of hyperuricemia associated with cancer therapy in adult patients with renal impairment is shown in Table 2 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. In these patients, consider the risks and potential benefits before initiating treatment with allopurinol tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. Since allopurinol tablets and its metabolites are primarily eliminated only by the kidney, accumulation of the drug can occur in renal failure, and the dose of allopurinol tablets should consequently be reduced. With a creatinine clearance of 10 to 20 mL/min, a daily dosage of 200 mg of allopurinol tablets is suitable. The dose of allopurinol tablets recommended for management of recurrent calcium oxalate stones in hyperuricosuric patients is 200 to 300 mg/day in divided doses or as the single equivalent. The average is 200 to 300 mg per day for patients with mild gout and 400 to 600 mg per day for those with moderately severe tophaceous gout. Normal serum urate levels are usually achieved in one to three weeks. When the creatinine clearance is less than 10 mL/min the daily dosage should not exceed 100 mg. For the prevention of uric acid nephropathy during the vigorous therapy of neoplastic disease, treatment with 600 to 800 mg daily for two or three days is advisable together with a high fluid intake. Clinical experience suggests that patients with recurrent calcium oxalate stones may also benefit from dietary changes such as the reduction of animal protein, sodium, refined sugars, oxalate-rich foods, and excessive calcium intake as well as an increase in oral fluids and dietary fiber. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Gout : Prior to initiating treatment assess serum uric acid level, complete blood count, chemistry panel, liver and kidney function tests. - Pediatric patients: 100 mg/m 2 orally every 8 hours to 12 hours (10 mg/kg/day, maximum 800 mg/day) - See complete information in the FPI. ( 2.4 , 2.6 ) • Recurrent Calcium Oxalate Calculi : The recommended initial dosage in patients with normal kidney function is 200 mg to 300 mg orally daily. Manage the gout flare concurrently, as appropriate for the individual patient [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . For complete dosage recommendations for patients with renal impairment see Table 1 [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )] . Monitor patients’ kidney function during the early stages of administration of allopurinol tablets and decrease the dosage or withdraw the drug if persistent abnormalities in kidney function occur [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . Inform patients of the possibility of gout flares [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . The recommended dosage of allopurinol tablets are: • Adult patients – 300 mg to 800 mg orally daily • Pediatric patients - 100 mg/m 2 orally every 8 hours to 12 hours (10 mg/kg/day, maximum 800 mg/day). Patients with Gout The recommended initial dosages in adult patients with gout with impaired kidney function are shown in Table 1 [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . Allopurinol and its metabolites are excreted by the kidney, and accumulation of the drug can occur in renal failure [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . Hyperuricemia Associated with Cancer Therapy The recommended dosage of allopurinol tablets for the management of hyperuricemia associated with cancer therapy in adult patients with renal impairment is shown in Table 2 [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended Dosage ( 2.2 ) Adult Patients 200 mg/m 2 /day to 400 mg/m 2 /day Maximum 600 mg/day Pediatric Patients Starting Dose 200 mg/m 2 /day Maximum 400 mg/day • Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients with Renal Impairment ( 2.2 , 5.2 , 8.6 ) Creatinine Clearance Recommended Daily Dose 10 to 20 mL/min 200 mg/day Less than 10 mL/min 100 mg/day On dialysis 50 mg every 12 hours, or 100 mg every 24 hours 2.1 Recommended Dosage Initiate therapy with ALOPRIM 24 to 48 hours before the start of chemotherapy known to cause tumor cell lysis. Additionally, administer fluids sufficient to yield a daily urinary output of at least two liters in adults with a neutral or, preferably, slightly alkaline urine. The recommended daily dose of ALOPRIM is shown in Table 1. Administer the daily dose as single infusion or in equally divided infusions at 6-, 8-, or 12-hour intervals at a rate appropriate for the volume of infusate. Table 1: Recommended Daily Dose of ALOPRIM Adult Patients 200 mg/m 2 /day to 400 mg/m 2 /day intravenously Maximum 600 mg/day Pediatric Patients Starting Dose 200 mg/m 2 /day intravenously Maximum 400 mg/day The dosage of ALOPRIM to lower serum uric acid to normal or near-normal varies with the severity of the disease. Monitor serum uric acid levels at least daily and administer ALOPRIM at a dose and frequency to maintain the serum uric acid within the normal range. Discontinue ALOPRIM when the patient is able to take oral therapy or when the risk of tumor lysis has abated. 2.2 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Renal Impairment Reduce the dose of ALOPRIM in patients with impaired renal function [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The recommended dosage reductions of ALOPRIM in adult patients with renal impairment are shown in Table 2. Table 2: Recommended Daily Dose of ALOPRIM in Adult Patients with Renal Impairment Creatinine Clearance Recommended Daily Dose 10 to 20 mL/min 200 mg/day Less than 10 mL/min 100 mg/day On dialysis 50 mg every 12 hours, or 100 mg every 24 hours Treatment with ALOPRIM has not been studied in pediatric patients with severe renal impairment or on dialysis. For pediatric patients with severe renal impairment or on dialysis, consider the risks and potential benefits before initiating treatment with ALOPRIM [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Use In Specific Populations (8.6) ] . 2.3 Preparation Instructions Reconstitue and further dilute ALOPRIM prior to intravenous infusion. Reconstitution • Reconstitute each vial of ALOPRIM with 25 mL of Sterile Water for Injection, USP to obtain a concentration of 20 mg/mL of allopurinol. • Inspect the reconstituted solution for discoloration and particulate matter. The reconstituted solution should appear as a clear, almost colorless solution with no more than a slight opalescence. Do not use if the reconstituted solution contains particulate matter or discoloration is present. Dilution • Dilute with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP or 5% Dextrose for Injection, USP to obtain a final concentration of less than 6 mg/mL. • Inspect the diluted solution for particulate matter or discoloration and discard if present. • If not used immediately, the diluted ALOPRIM solution can be stored at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) for up to 10 hours after initial reconstitution. The storage includes time for infusion. Do not refrigerate the reconstituted and/or diluted product. • If stored, the administration should be completed within 10 hours after reconstitution. • Discard unused portion. 2.4 Administration Instructions Do not mix ALOPRIM with or administer it through the same intravenous port as agents which are incompatible in solution with ALOPRIM. The following table lists drugs that are known to be physically incompatible in solution with ALOPRIM. Table 3: Drugs That Are Physically Incompatible in Solution with ALOPRIM Amikacin sulfate Hydroxyzine HCl Amphotericin B Idarubicin HCl Carmustine Imipenem-cilastatin sodium Cefotaxime sodium Mechlorethamine HCl Chlorpromazine HCl Meperidine HCl Cimetidine HCl Metoclopramide HCl Clindamycin phosphate Methylprednisolone sodium succinate Cytarabine Minocycline HCl Dacarbazine Nalbuphine HCl Daunorubicin HCl Ondansetron HCl Diphenhydramine HCl Prochlorperazine edisylate Doxorubicin HCl Promethazine HCl Doxycycline hyclate Sodium bicarbonate Droperidol Streptozocin Floxuridine Tobramycin sulfate Gentamicin sulfate Vinorelbine tartrate Haloperidol lactate
Warnings: WARNINGS ALLOPURINOL TABLETS, USP SHOULD BE DISCONTINUED AT THE FIRST APPEARANCE OF SKIN RASH OR OTHER SIGNS WHICH MAY INDICATE AN ALLERGIC REACTION. In some instances a skin rash may be followed by more severe hypersensitivity reactions such as exfoliative, urticarial, and purpuric lesions, as well as Stevens-Johnson syndrome (erythema multiforme exudativum), Drug Rash with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) and/or generalized vasculitis, irreversible hepatotoxicity, and, on rare occasions, death (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). In patients receiving PURINETHOL ® (mercaptopurine) or IMURAN ® (azathioprine), the concomitant administration of 300 to 600 mg of allopurinol per day will require a reduction in dose to approximately one-third to one-fourth of the usual dose of mercaptopurine or azathioprine. Subsequent adjustment of doses of mercaptopurine or azathioprine should be made on the basis of therapeutic response and the appearance of toxic effects (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). A few cases of reversible clinical hepatotoxicity have been noted in patients taking allopurinol, and in some patients, asymptomatic rises in serum alkaline phosphatase or serum transaminase have been observed. If anorexia, weight loss, or pruritus develop in patients on allopurinol, evaluation of liver function should be part of their diagnostic workup. In patients with pre-existing liver disease, periodic liver function tests are recommended during the early stages of therapy. Due to the occasional occurrence of drowsiness, patients should be alerted to the need for due precaution when engaging in activities where alertness is mandatory. The occurrence of hypersensitivity reactions to allopurinol may be increased in patients with decreased renal function receiving thiazides and allopurinol concurrently. For this reason, in this clinical setting, such combinations should be administered with caution and patients should be observed closely. WARNINGS ALLOPURINOL TABLETS USP SHOULD BE DISCONTINUED AT THE FIRST APPEARANCE OF SKIN RASH OR OTHER SIGNS WHICH MAY INDICATE AN ALLERGIC REACTION. WARNINGS ALLOPURINOL SHOULD BE DISCONTINUED AT THE FIRST APPEARANCE OF SKIN RASH OR OTHER SIGNS WHICH MAY INDICATE AN ALLERGIC REACTION. In some instances a skin rash may be followed by more severe hypersensitivity reactions such as exfoliative, urticarial and purpuric lesions, as well as Stevens-Johnson syndrome (erythema multiforme exudativum), Drug Rash with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) and/or generalized vasculitis, irreversible hepatotoxicity, and, on rare occasions, death (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). In patients receiving mercaptopurine or azathioprine, the concomitant administration of 300 to 600 mg of allopurinol per day will require a reduction in dose to approximately one-third to one-fourth of the usual dose of mercaptopurine or azathioprine. WARNINGS ALLOPURINOL TABLETS SHOULD BE DISCONTINUED AT THE FIRST APPEARANCE OF SKIN RASH OR OTHER SIGNS WHICH MAY INDICATE AN ALLERGIC REACTION. A few cases of reversible clinical hepatotoxicity have been noted in patients taking allopurinol tablets, and in some patients, asymptomatic rises in serum alkaline phosphatase or serum transaminase have been observed. If anorexia, weight loss, or pruritus develop in patients on allopurinol tablets, evaluation of liver function should be part of their diagnostic workup. The occurrence of hypersensitivity reactions to allopurinol tablets may be increased in patients with decreased renal function receiving thiazides and allopurinol tablets concurrently. In some instances a skin rash may be followed by more severe hypersensitivity reactions such as exfoliative, urticarial and purpuric lesions as well as Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (erythema multiforme exudativum) and/or generalized vasculitis, irreversible hepatotoxicity and on rare occasions, death. A few cases of reversible clinical hepatotoxicity have been noted in patients taking allopurinol, and in some patients asymptomatic rises in serum alkaline phosphatase or serum transaminase have been observed. If anorexia, weight loss or pruritus develop in patients on allopurinol, evaluation of liver function should be part of their diagnostic workup.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Allopurinol tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity reaction to allopurinol or to any of the ingredients of allopurinol tablets. Known hypersensitivity to allopurinol or to any of the ingredients of allopurinol tablets. CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients who have developed a severe reaction to allopurinol tablets, USP should not be restarted on the drug. CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients who have developed a severe reaction to allopurinol tablet USP should not be restarted on the drug. CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients who have developed a severe reaction to allopurinol should not be restarted on the drug. 4. CONTRAINDICATIONS Allopurinol tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity reaction to allopurinol or to any of the ingredients of allopurinol tablets. CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients who have developed a severe reaction to allopurinol tablets should not be restarted on the drug. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ALOPRIM is contraindicated in patients with a history of severe reaction to any formulation of allopurinol. Known hypersensitivity to allopurinol. ( 4 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The following drugs may increase the risk of serious skin reactions: bendamustine, thiazide diuretics, ampicillin and amoxicillin. ( 7.1 ) Capecitabine: Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.2 ) Mercaptopurine or Azathioprine: Reduce mercaptopurine or azathioprine dose as recommended in the respective prescribing information. ( 7.2 ) Pegloticase: Discontinue and refrain from initiating treatment with allopurinol tablets. ( 7.2 ) See FPI for complete list of significant drug interactions. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Drugs Known to Affect the Occurrence of Skin Rash and Hypersensitivity Concomitant use of the following drugs may increase the risk of skin rash, which may be severe: bendamustine, thiazide diuretics, ampicillin and amoxicillin. Renal impairment may further increase risk with concomitant use of thiazide diuretics [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . Monitor kidney function and reduce the dose of allopurinol tablets in patients with concomitant thiazide diuretic use and impaired renal function [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Discontinue allopurinol tablets at the first appearance of skin rash or other signs which may indicate a hypersensitivity reaction when use concomitantly with these drugs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . 7.2 Drugs Known to Have Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Allopurinol Tablets Table 3: Interventions for Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Allopurinol Tablets Capecitabine Clinical Impact Concomitant use with allopurinol may decrease concentration of capecitabine’s active metabolites, which may decrease capecitabine efficacy. Intervention Avoid the use of allopurinol tablets during treatment with capecitabine. Chlorpropamide Clinical Impact Allopurinol tablets prolong the half-life of chlorpropamide as both compete for renal tubular excretion. In patients with renal insufficiency, the risk of hypoglycemia may be increased due to this mechanism. Intervention Monitor patients with renal insufficiency for hypoglycemia when administering chlorpropamide and allopurinol tablets concomitantly. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact Concomitant use of allopurinol increases cyclosporine concentrations, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Intervention Increase frequency of monitoring cyclosporine concentrations as reflected in its prescribing information and modify the dosage of cyclosporine as appropriate when used concomitantly with allopurinol tablets. Cyclophosphamide and Other Cytotoxic Agents Clinical Impact Concomitant use of allopurinol with cyclophosphamide and other cytotoxic agents (doxorubicin, bleomycin, procarbazine, mechloroethamine) increases bone marrow suppression among patients with neoplastic disease, except leukemia. Intervention Blood count monitoring and regular physician follow-up are recommended. Dicumarol Clinical Impact Allopurinol tablets prolong the half-life of the anticoagulant, dicumarol. The mechanism of this drug interaction has not been established but should be noted when allopurinol tablets are given to patients already on dicumarol therapy. Intervention Monitor prothrombin time. Adjust the dosage of dicumarol accordingly when allopurinol tablets are added to anticoagulant therapy. Fluorouracil Clinical Impact Based on non-clinical data, allopurinol may decrease anti-tumor activity due to suppression of phosphorylation of 5-fluorouracil. Intervention Concomitant administration with fluorouracil should be avoided. Mercaptopurine or Azathioprine Clinical Impact Allopurinol inhibits xanthine oxidase mediated metabolism of mercaptopurine and azathioprine. Concomitant use of allopurinol increases the exposure of either mercaptopurine or azathioprine which may increase the risk of their adverse reactions, including myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions 5.5 ]. Intervention In patients receiving mercaptopurine or azathioprine, the concomitant administration of 300 mg to 600 mg of allopurinol tablets per day will require a reduction in dose to approximately one third to one fourth of the usual dose of mercaptopurine or azathioprine. Subsequent adjustment of doses of mercaptopurine or azathioprine should be made on the basis of therapeutic response and the appearance of toxic effects. Pegloticase Clinical Impact Concomitant use of allopurinol tablets and pegloticase may potentially blunt the rise of serum uric acid levels and increase the risk of pegloticase related anaphylaxis in patients whose uric acid level increase to above 6 mg/dL. Intervention Discontinue and do not institute allopurinol tablets therapy during treatment with pegloticase. Theophylline Clinical Impact Concomitant use of allopurinol doses greater than or equal to 600 mg/day may decrease the clearance of theophylline. Intervention Monitor and adjust theophylline doses as reflected in the prescribing information. Uricosuric Drugs Clinical Impact Uricosuric agents increase the excretion of the active allopurinol metabolite oxypurinol. Concomitant use with uricosuric agents decreases oxypurinol exposure which may reduce the inhibition of xanthine oxidase by oxypurinol and increases the urinary excretion of uric acid. The net effect of such combined therapy may be useful in some patients in achieving minimum serum uric acid levels provided the total urinary uric acid load does not exceed the competence of the patient's kidney function. Intervention Monitor uric acid levels due to the increased chance of hypouricemic effects. Warfarin Clinical Impact Allopurinol may inhibit the metabolism of warfarin, possibly enhancing its anticoagulant effect. Intervention Monitor patients on concomitant therapy for excessive anticoagulation. Assess INR frequently and adjust warfarin dosage accordingly when allopurinol is added to warfarin therapy. Drug Interactions: In patients receiving mercaptopurine or IMURAN (azathioprine), the concomitant administration of 300 to 600 mg of allopurinol per day will require a reduction in dose to approximately one third to one fourth of the usual dose of mercaptopurine or azathioprine. Subsequent adjustment of doses of mercaptopurine or azathioprine should be made on the basis of therapeutic response and the appearance of toxic effects (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). It has been reported that allopurinol prolongs the half-life of the anticoagulant, dicumarol. The clinical basis of this drug interaction has not been established but should be noted when allopurinol is given to patients already on dicumarol therapy. Since the excretion of oxipurinol is similar to that of urate, uricosuric agents, which increase the excretion of urate, are also likely to increase the excretion of oxipurinol and thus lower the degree of inhibition of xanthine oxidase. The concomitant administration of uricosuric agents and allopurinol has been associated with a decrease in the excretion of oxypurines (hypoxanthine and xanthine) and an increase in urinary uric acid excretion compared with that observed with allopurinol alone. Although clinical evidence to date has not demonstrated renal precipitation of oxypurines in patients either on allopurinol alone or in combination with uricosuric agents, the possibility should be kept in mind. The reports that the concomitant use of allopurinol and thiazide diuretics may contribute to the enhancement of allopurinol toxicity in some patients have been reviewed in an attempt to establish a cause-and-effect relationship and a mechanism of causation. Review of these case reports indicates that the patients were mainly receiving thiazide diuretics for hypertension and that tests to rule out decreased renal function secondary to hypertensive nephropathy were not often performed. In those patients in whom renal insufficiency was documented, however, the recommendation to lower the dose of allopurinol was not followed. Although a causal mechanism and a cause-and-effect relationship have not been established, current evidence suggests that renal function should be monitored in patients on thiazide diuretics and allopurinol even in the absence of renal failure, and dosage levels should be even more conservatively adjusted in those patients on such combined therapy if diminished renal function is detected. An increase in the frequency of skin rash has been reported among patients receiving ampicillin or amoxicillin concurrently with allopurinol compared to patients who are not receiving both drugs. The cause of the reported association has not been established. Enhanced bone marrow suppression by cyclophosphamide and other cytotoxic agents has been reported among patients with neoplastic disease, except leukemia, in the presence of allopurinol. However, in a well-controlled study of patients with lymphoma on combination therapy, allopurinol did not increase the marrow toxicity of patients treated with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, bleomycin, procarbazine, and/or mechlorethamine. Tolbutamide's conversion to inactive metabolites has been shown to be catalyzed by xanthine oxidase from rat liver. The clinical significance, if any, of these observations is unknown. Chlorpropamide's plasma half-life may be prolonged by allopurinol, since allopurinol and chlorpropamide may compete for excretion in the renal tubule. The risk of hypoglycemia secondary to this mechanism may be increased if allopurinol and chlorpropamide are given concomitantly in the presence of renal insufficiency. Rare reports indicate that cyclosporine levels may be increased during concomitant treatment with allopurinol. Monitoring of cyclosporine levels and possible adjustment of cyclosporine dosage should be considered when these drugs are co-administered. Drug Interactions In patients receiving mercaptopurine or azathioprine, the concomitant administration of 300 to 600 mg of allopurinol per day will require a reduction in dose to approximately one third to one fourth of the usual dose of mercaptopurine or azathioprine. However, in a well-controlled study of patients with lymphoma on combination therapy, allopurinol did not increase the marrow toxicity of patients treated with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, bleomycin, procarbazine and/or mechlorethamine. 7. DRUG INTERACTIONS • The following drugs may increase the risk of serious skin reactions: bendamustine, thiazide diuretics, ampicillin and amoxicillin. (7.1) • Capecitabine: Avoid concomitant use. (7.2) • Mercaptopurine or Azathioprine: Reduce mercaptopurine or azathioprine dose as recommended in the respective prescribing information. (7.2) • Pegloticase: Discontinue and refrain from initiating treatment with allopurinol tablets. (7.2) • See FPI for complete list of significant drug interactions. (7.2) 7.1 Drugs Known to Affect the Occurrence of Skin Rash and Hypersensitivity Concomitant use of the following drugs may increase the risk of skin rash, which may be severe: bendamustine, thiazide diuretics, ampicillin and amoxicillin. Renal impairment may further increase risk with concomitant use of thiazide diuretics [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)] . Monitor kidney function and reduce the dose of allopurinol tablets in patients with concomitant thiazide diuretic use and impaired renal function [see Dosage and Administration (2.6), Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . Discontinue allopurinol tablets at the first appearance of skin rash or other signs which may indicate a hypersensitivity reaction when use concomitantly with these drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . Intervention Avoid the use of allopurinol tablets during treatment with capecitabine Chlorpropamide Clinical Impact Allopurinol tablets prolongs the half-life of chlorpropamide as both compete for renal tubular excretion. Dicumarol Clinical Impact Allopurinol tablets prolongs the half-life of the anticoagulant, dicumarol. The mechanism of this drug interaction has not been established but should be noted when allopurinol tablets is given to patients already on dicumarol therapy. Concomitant use of allopurinol increases the exposure of either mercaptopurine or azathioprine which may increase the risk of their adverse reactions, including myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions 5.5] . Theophylline Clinical Impact Concomitant use of allopurinol doses greater than or equal to 600 mg/day may decrease the clearance of theophylline Intervention Monitor and adjust theophylline doses as reflected in the prescribing information. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • The following drugs may increase the risk of serious skin reactions: bendamustine, thiazide diuretics, ampicillin and amoxicillin. ( 7.1 ) • Capecitabine: Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.2 ) • Mercaptopurine or Azathioprine: Reduce mercaptopurine or azathioprine dose as recommended in the respective prescribing information. ( 7.2 ) • Pegloticase: Discontinue and refrain from initiating treatment with allopurinol. ( 7.2 ) • See FPI for complete list of significant drug interactions. Renal impairment may further increase risk with concomitant use of thiazide diuretics [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Monitor kidney function and reduce the dose of allopurinol in patients with concomitant thiazide diuretic use and impaired renal function [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Discontinue allopurinol at the first appearance of skin rash or other signs which may indicate a hypersensitivity reaction when use concomitantly with these drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7.2 Drugs Known to Have Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Allopurinol Table 3: Interventions for Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Allopurinol Capecitabine Clinical Impact Concomitant use with allopurinol may decrease concentration of capecitabine’s active metabolites, which may decrease capecitabine efficacy. Intervention Avoid the use of allopurinol during treatment with capecitabine Chlorpropamide Clinical Impact Allopurinol prolongs the half-life of chlorpropamide as both compete for renal tubular excretion. Intervention Monitor patients with renal insufficiency for hypoglycemia when administering chlorpropamide and allopurinol concomitantly. Intervention Increase frequency of monitoring cyclosporine concentrations as reflected in its prescribing information and modify the dosage of cyclosporine as appropriate when used concomitantly with allopurinol. Dicumarol Clinical Impact Allopurinol prolongs the half-life of the anticoagulant, dicumarol. The mechanism of this drug interaction has not been established but should be noted when allopurinol is given to patients already on dicumarol therapy. Adjust the dosage of dicumarol accordingly when allopurinol is added to anticoagulant therapy. Intervention In patients receiving mercaptopurine or azathioprine, the concomitant administration of 300 mg to 600 mg of allopurinol per day will require a reduction in dose to approximately one third to one fourth of the usual dose of mercaptopurine or azathioprine. Pegloticase Clinical Impact Concomitant use of allopurinol and pegloticase may potentially blunt the rise of serum uric acid levels and increase the risk of pegloticase related anaphylaxis in patients whose uric acid level increase to above 6 mg/dL. Intervention Discontinue and do not institute allopurinol therapy during treatment with pegloticase. Drug Interactions In patients receiving PURINETHOL (mercaptopurine) or IMURAN (azathioprine), the concomitant administration of 300 to 600 mg of allopurinol tablets per day will require a reduction in dose to approximately one third to one fourth of the usual dose of mercaptopurine or azathioprine. It has been reported that allopurinol tablets prolong the half-life of the anticoagulant, dicumarol. The clinical basis of this drug interaction has not been established but should be noted when allopurinol tablets are given to patients already on dicumarol therapy. The concomitant administration of uricosuric agents and allopurinol tablets has been associated with a decrease in the excretion of oxypurines (hypoxanthine and xanthine) and an increase in urinary uric acid excretion compared with that observed with allopurinol tablets alone. Although clinical evidence to date has not demonstrated renal precipitation of oxypurines in patients either on allopurinol tablets alone or in combination with uricosuric agents, the possibility should be kept in mind. The reports that the concomitant use of allopurinol tablets and thiazide diuretics may contribute to the enhancement of allopurinol toxicity in some patients have been reviewed in an attempt to establish a cause-and-effect relationship and a mechanism of causation. In those patients in whom renal insufficiency was documented, however, the recommendation to lower the dose of allopurinol tablets was not followed. Although a causal mechanism and a cause-and-effect relationship have not been established, current evidence suggests that renal function should be monitored in patients on thiazide diuretics and allopurinol tablets even in the absence of renal failure, and dosage levels should be even more conservatively adjusted in those patients on such combined therapy if diminished renal function is detected. An increase in the frequency of skin rash has been reported among patients receiving ampicillin or amoxicillin concurrently with allopurinol tablets compared to patients who are not receiving both drugs. Enhanced bone marrow suppression by cyclophosphamide and other cytotoxic agents has been reported among patients with neoplastic disease, except leukemia, in the presence of allopurinol tablets. However, in a well-controlled study of patients with lymphoma on combination therapy, allopurinol tablets did not increase the marrow toxicity of patients treated with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, bleomycin, procarbazine, and/or mechlorethamine. Chlorpropamide’s plasma half-life may be prolonged by allopurinol tablets, since allopurinol and chlorpropamide may compete for excretion in the renal tubule. The risk of hypoglycemia secondary to this mechanism may be increased if allopurinol tablets and chlorpropamide are given concomitantly in the presence of renal insufficiency. Rare reports indicate that cyclosporine levels may be increased during concomitant treatment with allopurinol tablets. Drug Interactions In patients receiving mercaptopurine or azathioprine, the concomitant administration of 300-600 mg of allopurinol per day will require a reduction in dose to approximately one-third to one-fourth of the usual dose of mercaptopurine or azathioprine. Tolbutamide’s conversion to inactive metabolites has been shown to be catalyzed by xanthine oxidase from rat liver. The clinical significance, if any, of this observation is unknown. Chlorpropamide’s plasma half-life may be prolonged by allopurinol, since allopurinol and chlorpropamide may compete for excretion in the renal tubule. ( 7.2 ) • Pegloticase: Discontinue and refrain from initiating treatment with allopurinol tablets. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Clinically important interactions with the drugs listed below were observed in patients undergoing treatment with an oral allopurinol formulation. • Capecitabine: Avoid the concomitant use of allopurinol ( 7.2 ). • Pegloticase: Discontinue and do not institute allopurinol therapy during treatment with pegloticase ( 7.2 ). • Mercaptopurine or Azathioprine: Reduce mercaptopurine or azathioprine dose as recommended in the respective prescribing information ( 7.2 ). • See full prescribing information for complete list of significant drug interactions ( 7 ). 7.1 Drugs Known to Affect the Occurrence of Skin Rash and Hypersensitivity Concomitant use of the following drugs may increase the risk of skin rash, which may be severe: bendamustine, thiazide diuretics, ampicillin and amoxicillin. Renal impairment may further increase risk with concomitant use of thiazide diuretics [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Monitor renal function and reduce the dose of ALOPRIM in patients with concomitant thiazide diuretic use and impaired renal function [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. Discontinue ALOPRIM at the first appearance of skin rash or other signs which may indicate a hypersensitivity reaction when use concomitantly with these drugs. 7.2 Other Drugs Known to Have Clinically Important Drug Interactions with ALOPRIM Table 4: Interventions for Clinically Important Drug Interactions with ALOPRIM Capecitabine Clinical Impact Concomitant use with allopurinol may decrease concentration of capecitabine’s active metabolites, which may decrease capecitabine efficacy. Intervention Avoid the use of ALOPRIM during treatment with capecitabine. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact Concomitant use of allopurinol increases cyclosporine concentrations which may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Intervention Increase frequency of monitoring cyclosporine concentrations as reflected in the prescribing information when used concomitantly with ALOPRIM. Cytotoxic Agents Clinical Impact Concomitant use of allopurinol with cytotoxic agents increases bone marrow suppression among patients with neoplastic disease, except leukemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Intervention Blood count monitoring and regular physician follow-up recommended. Concomitant use of allopurinol increases the exposure of either mercaptopurine or azathioprine which may increase the risk of their adverse reactions including myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Intervention Reduce the dosage of mercaptopurine or azathioprine as recommended in the respective prescribing information. Pegloticase Clinical Impact Concomitant use of ALOPRIM and pegloticase may potentially blunt the rise of serum uric acid levels and increase the risk of pegloticase related anaphylaxis in patients whose uric acid level increase to above 6 mg/dL. Intervention Discontinue and do not institute ALOPRIM therapy during treatment with pegloticase. Uricosuric Agents Clinical Impact Uricosuric agents increase the excretion of the active allopurinol metabolite oxypurinol. Intervention Patients on concomitant therapy should be monitored for excessive anticoagulation. The INR should be checked frequently and warfarin dosage adjusted accordingly when allopurinol is added to warfarin therapy.

=== PETROLATUM ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Petrolatum USP 58.95% .................................. Protectant Anhydrous Lanolin USP 35% ....................... Protectant Anorectal/Hemorrhoidal Purpose Analgesic Protectant Protectant Purpose Skin protectant Purpose Skin Protectant Uses temporarily protects minor: cuts, scrapes, burns helps relieve, prevent and temporarily protect chaged, chapped or cracked skin Purposes Protectant Local Anesthetic Vasoconstrictor Helps prevent, temporarily protects and helps relieve chafed, chapped or cracked skin Helps prevent and protect from the drying effects of wind and cold weather Temporarily protects minor cuts, scrapes, burns
Indications: Indications: Temporarily relieves minor burns, dry, chapped, fissured and macerated skin and lips, also relieves Psoriais, Eczema, mild sunburn, abrasions and contusions, diaper dermatitis, hemorrhoids, and prickly heat. For the temporary relief of pain, soreness, and burning. Helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids. Temporarily shrinks hemorrhoidal tissue. Temporarily provides a coating for the relief of anorectal discomforts. Temporarily protects the inflamed, irritated anorectal surface to help make bowel movements less painful. Uses for the temporary relief of anorectal itching and discomfort in the perianal area associated with anorectal inflammation temporarily forms a protective coating over inflamed tissues to help prevent drying of tissues temporarily protects irritated areas temporarily relieves burning provides temporary relief from skin irritations temporarily protects the inflamed irritated anorectal surface to help make bowel movements less painful temporarily protects inflamed perianal skin temporarily relieves the symptoms of perianal skin irritation may provide a cooling sensation Uses temporarily protects minor cuts, scrapes, and burns temporarily protects and helps relieve chapped or cracked skin Uses temporarily protects minor cuts, scrapes and burns helps prevent and temporarily protects and helps relieve chapped or cracked skin helps treat and prevent diaper rash. Protects minor skin irritation associated with diaper rash and helps seal out wetness Uses temporarily protects minor cuts scrapes burns temporarily protects and helps relieve chapped or cracked skin and lips helps protect from the drying effects of wind and cold weather Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Uses: Helps relieve the local itching and discomfort in the perianal area. Temporarily relieves pain, irritation or burning and reduces the swelling associated with irritated hemorrhoidal tissue and other anorectal disorders. Directions Apply as needed
Dosage: Directions: Apply a thin film to clean, dry skin three times daily. May be covered with sterile gauze, if desired. Adults: when practical, cleanse area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly. Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or soft cloth before applying. Adults and children 12 years and older: apply externally to the affected area up to 4 times a day. Children under 12 years of age: consult a doctor. Directions adults : when practical, cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly. Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product. Apply to the affected area up to 6 times daily Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Directions for skin protection: apply as needed for diaper rash: change wet and soiled diapers promptly, cleanse the diaper area, and allow to dry apply liberally, as often as necessary, with each diaper change, especially at bedtime or any time when exposure to wet diapers may be prolonged Directions for skin protection: apply as needed for diaper rash: change wet and soiled diapers promptly, cleanse the diaper area, and allow to dry. Apply product liberally as often as necessary , with each diaper change, especially at bedtime or anytime when exposure to wet diapers may be prolonged Directions apply as needed Apply externally to the affected area up to 4 times daily, especially at night, in the morning or after each bowel movement. For intrarectal use: attach applicator to tube. Lubricate well, then gently insert applicator into the rectum. Thoroughly cleanse applicator after use with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly. Directions for cuts, scrapes, and bums Clean affected area with soap and water apply frequently enoughto infected areas to prevent a scab from forming Directions: Adults: • When practical, cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse by patting or blotting with an appropriate cleansing pad. Apply externally to the affected area up to 4 times daily. Apply as needed
Warnings: Warnings: For external use only. Discontinue use if signs of irritation appear. If condition worsens consult a doctor. Do not use over deep, infected, or puncture wounds. For external use only. Ask a doctor before use if you have: heart disease, high blood pressure, thyroid disease, diabetes, or difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland. Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug for high blood pressure or depression. When using this product : avoid contact with eyes, do not exceed recommended dosage unless directed by a doctor, do not put this product into rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator. Stop use and ask a doctor if : rectal bleeding occurs, condition worsens or does not improve within seven (7) days, allergic reaction occurs to ingredients in this product, symptom being treated does not subside or if redness, irritation, swelling, pain or other symptoms develop or increase, symptoms clear up and return within a few days. Warnings For external use only Allergy Alert: Certain persons can develop allergic reactions to ingredients in this product. If the symptom being treated does not subside or if redness, irritation, swelling, pain, or other symptoms develop or increase, discontinue use and consult a doctor Do not use on deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns When using this product do not get into eyes do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days in case of bleeding Keep out of reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Do not use on deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns When using this product do not get into eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms last for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again withinn a few days Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Do not use on deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns When using this product do not get into eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms last for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children. Warnings For external use only. For external and/or intrarectal use. When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage unless directed by a doctor. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve within seven (7) days, bleeding occurs, an allergic reaction develops, the symptom being treated does not subside or if redness, irritation, swelling, pain or other symptoms develop or increase. Warnings When using this product do not get into eyes Do not use on deep or punctured wounds animal bites serious burns Allergy alert • Certain persons can develop allergic reactions to ingredients in this product. Do not Exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor. Put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator. Use this product if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, thyroid disease, diabetes, or difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland unless directed by a doctor. When using this product If condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days, consult a doctor. In case of bleeding, consult a doctor promptly. Stop use and ask a doctor if If the symptom being treated does not subside or if redness, irritation, swelling, pain, or other symptoms develop or increase. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help, or contact a Poison Control Center right away. If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use. Warnings For external use only Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Do not use on deep or puncture wounds, animal bites, serious burns When using this product do not get into eyes Stop use and ask doctor if condition worsens, symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days

=== PRAVASTATIN SODIUM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Therapy with lipid-altering agents should be only one component of multiple risk factor intervention in individuals at significantly increased risk for atherosclerotic vascular disease due to hypercholesterolemia. Drug therapy is indicated as an adjunct to diet when the response to a diet restricted in saturated fat and cholesterol and other nonpharmacologic measures alone has been inadequate. Pravastatin Sodium is an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated as an adjunctive therapy to diet to: Reduce the risk of MI, revascularization, and cardiovascular mortality in hypercholesterolemic patients without clinically evident CHD. (1.1) Reduce the risk of total mortality by reducing coronary death, MI, revascularization, stroke/TIA, and the progression of coronary atherosclerosis in patients with clinically evident CHD. (1.1) Reduce elevated Total-C, LDL-C, ApoB, and TG levels and to increase HDL­ C in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia and mixed dyslipidemia. (1.2) Reduce elevated serum TG levels in patients with hypertriglyceridemia. (1.2) Treat patients with primary dysbetalipoproteinemia who are not responding to diet. (1.2) Treat children and adolescent patients ages 8 years and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia after failing an adequate trial of diet therapy. (1.2) Limitations of use: Pravastatin sodium has not been studied in Fredrickson Types I and V dyslipidemias. (1.3) 1.1 Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease In hypercholesterolemic patients without clinically evident coronary heart disease (CHD), Pravastatin Sodium is indicated to: reduce the risk of myocardial infarction (MI). reduce the risk of undergoing myocardial revascularization procedures. reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality with no increase in death from non-cardiovascular causes. In patients with clinically evident CHD, Pravastatin Sodium is indicated to: reduce the risk of total mortality by reducing coronary death. reduce the risk of MI reduce the risk of undergoing myocardial revascularization procedures. reduce the risk of stroke and stroke/transient ischemic attack (TIA). slow the progression of coronary atherosclerosis. 1.2 Hyperlipidemia Pravastatin Sodium is indicated: as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated total cholesterol (Total-C), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), apolipoprotein B (ApoB), and triglyceride (TG) levels and to increase high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia and mixed dyslipidemia ( Fredrickson Types IIa and IIb). 1 as an adjunct to diet for the treatment of patients with elevated serum TG levels ( Fredrickson Type IV). for the treatment of patients with primary dysbetalipoproteinemia ( Fredrickson Type III) who do not respond adequately to diet. as an adjunct to diet and lifestyle modification for treatment of heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) in children and adolescent patients ages 8 years and older if after an adequate trial of diet the following findings are present: a. LDL-C remains ≥190 mg/dL or b. LDL-C remains ≥160 mg/dL and: there is a positive family history of premature cardiovascular disease (CVD) or two or more other CVD risk factors are present in the patient. 1.3 Limitations of Use Pravastatin Sodium has not been studied in conditions where the major lipoprotein abnormality is elevation of chylomicrons ( Fredrickson Types I and V). 1.1 Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease In hypercholesterolemic patients without clinically evident coronary heart disease (CHD), Pravastatin Sodium is indicated to: reduce the risk of myocardial infarction (MI). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pravastatin sodium tablets are indicated: To reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, myocardial revascularization procedures, and cardiovascular mortality in adults with elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) without clinically evident coronary heart disease (CHD). To reduce the risk of coronary death, myocardial infarction, myocardial revascularization procedures, stroke or transient ischemic attack, and slow the progression of coronary atherosclerosis in adults with clinically evident CHD. As an adjunct to diet to reduce LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia. As an adjunct to diet to reduce LDL-C in pediatric patients ages 8 years and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with: Primary dysbetalipoproteinemia. Hypertriglyceridemia. Pravastatin sodium tablets are an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated ( 1 ): To reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, myocardial revascularization procedures, and cardiovascular mortality in adults with elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) without clinically evident coronary heart disease (CHD). Pravastatin sodium tablets are an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated (1) : To reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, myocardial revascularization procedures, and cardiovascular mortality in adults with elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) without clinically evident coronary heart disease (CHD). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pravastatin sodium tablets are indicated: Pravastatin sodium tablets are an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated ( 1 ): • To reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, myocardial revascularization procedures, and cardiovascular mortality in adults with elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) without clinically evident coronary heart disease (CHD). • To reduce the risk of coronary death, myocardial infarction, myocardial revascularization procedures, stroke or transient ischemic attack, and slow the progression of coronary atherosclerosis in adults with clinically evident CHD. • As an adjunct to diet to reduce LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia. • As an adjunct to diet to reduce LDL-C in pediatric patients ages 8 years and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). • As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with: • Primary dysbetalipoproteinemia. • Hypertriglyceridemia. Pravastatin sodium is an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated ( 1 ): To reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, myocardial revascularization procedures, and cardiovascular mortality in adults with elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) without clinically evident coronary heart disease (CHD). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pravastatin sodium tablets are an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated ( 1 ): To reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, myocardial revascularization procedures, and cardiovascular mortality in adults with elevated lowdensity lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) without clinically evident coronary heart disease (CHD). Pravastatin sodium tablets are indicated: To reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, myocardial revascularization procedures, and cardiovascular mortality in adults with elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDLC) without clinically evident coronary heart disease (CHD).
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults: the recommended starting dose is 40 mg once daily. Use 80 mg dose only for patients not reaching LDL-C goal with 40 mg. (2.2) Significant renal impairment: the recommended starting dose is pravastatin 10 mg once daily. (2.3) Children (ages 8 to 13 years, inclusive): the recommended starting dose is 20 mg once daily. (2.4) Adolescents (ages 14 to 18 years): the recommended starting dose is 40 mg once daily. (2.4) 2.1 General Dosing Information The patient should be placed on a standard cholesterol-lowering diet before receiving Pravastatin Sodium and should continue on this diet during treatment with Pravastatin Sodium [see NCEP Treatment Guidelines for details on dietary therapy]. 2.2 Adult Patients The recommended starting dose is 40 mg once daily. If a daily dose of 40 mg does not achieve desired cholesterol levels, 80 mg once daily is recommended. Pravastatin Sodium can be administered orally as a single dose at any time of the day, with or without food. Since the maximal effect of a given dose is seen within 4 weeks, periodic lipid determinations should be performed at this time and dosage adjusted according to the patient’s response to therapy and established treatment guidelines. 2.3 Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment, a starting dose of 10 mg pravastatin daily is recommended. 2.4 Pediatric Patients Children (Ages 8 to 13 Years, Inclusive) The recommended dose is 20 mg once daily in children 8 to 13 years of age. Doses greater than 20 mg have not been studied in this patient population. Adolescents (Ages 14 to 18 Years) The recommended starting dose is 40 mg once daily in adolescents 14 to 18 years of age. Doses greater than 40 mg have not been studied in this patient population. Children and adolescents treated with pravastatin should be reevaluated in adulthood and appropriate changes made to their cholesterol-lowering regimen to achieve adult goals for LDL-C [see Indications and Usage (1.2) ]. 2.5 Concomitant Lipid-Altering Therapy Pravastatin Sodium may be used with bile acid resins. When administering a bile-acid-binding resin (e.g., cholestyramine, colestipol) and pravastatin, Pravastatin Sodium should be given either 1 hour or more before or at least 4 hours following the resin. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] 2.6 Dosage in Patients Taking Cyclosporine In patients taking immunosuppressive drugs such as cyclosporine concomitantly with pravastatin, therapy should begin with 10 mg of pravastatin sodium once-a-day at bedtime and titration to higher doses should be done with caution. Most patients treated with this combination received a maximum pravastatin sodium dose of 20 mg/day. In patients taking cyclosporine, therapy should be limited to 20 mg of pravastatin sodium once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 2.7 Dosage in Patients Taking Clarithromycin In patients taking clarithromycin, therapy should be limited to 40 mg of pravastatin sodium once daily [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ]. 2.1 General Dosing Information The patient should be placed on a standard cholesterol-lowering diet before receiving Pravastatin Sodium and should continue on this diet during treatment with Pravastatin Sodium [see NCEP Treatment Guidelines for details on dietary therapy]. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] 2.6 Dosage in Patients Taking Cyclosporine In patients taking immunosuppressive drugs such as cyclosporine concomitantly with pravastatin, therapy should begin with 10 mg of pravastatin sodium once-a-day at bedtime and titration to higher doses should be done with caution. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take orally once daily at any time of the day, with or without food ( 2.1 ). For patients that require a high-intensity statin or are unable to achieve their LDL-C goal receiving pravastatin sodium tablets 80 mg daily, prescribe alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment ( 2.1 ). Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating pravastatin sodium tablets, and adjust the dosage if necessary ( 2.1 ). Adults: recommended starting dosage is pravastatin sodium tablets 40 mg to 80 mg once daily. ( 2.2 ) Pediatric Patients ( 2.3 ): aged 8 to 13 years, the recommended dosage is 20 mg once daily. aged 14 to 18 years, the recommended starting dosage is 40 mg once daily. Severe renal impairment: recommended starting dosage is pravastatin sodium 10 mg once daily. Use another pravastatin sodium product to initiate dosing. Recommended maximum pravastatin sodium tablets dosage is 40 mg once daily. ( 2.4 ) See full prescribing information for dosage modifications due to drug interactions ( 2.5 , 7 ). 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information Take pravastatin sodium tablets orally once daily as a single dose at any time of the day, with or without food. For patients that require a high-intensity statin or are unable to achieve their LDL-C goal receiving pravastatin sodium tablets 80 mg daily, prescribe alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment. Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating pravastatin sodium tablets, and adjust the dosage if necessary. 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients The recommended starting dosage is pravastatin sodium tablets 40 mg to 80 mg once daily. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 8 Years of Age and Older with HeFH In pediatric patients aged 8 to 13 years, the recommended dosage is pravastatin sodium tablets 20 mg once daily. In pediatric patients aged 14 to 18 years, the recommended starting dosage is pravastatin sodium tablets 40 mg once daily. 2.4 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment, the recommended starting dosage is pravastatin sodium 10 mg once daily. The maximum recommended dosage of pravastatin sodium tablets in patients with severe renal impairment is 40 mg once daily [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. The recommended dosage of pravastatin sodium tablets for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment is the same as patients with normal renal function. 2.5 Dosage and Administration Modifications Due to Drug Interactions In patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer pravastatin sodium tablets at least 1 hour before or 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )]. Concomitant use of pravastatin sodium tablets with the following drugs requires dosage modifications of pravastatin sodium tablet s [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Drug Interactions (7.1)]: Cyclosporine In patients taking cyclosporine, the recommended starting dosage is pravastatin sodium 10 mg once daily. The maximum recommended dosage of pravastatin sodium tablets in patients taking cyclosporine is 20 mg once daily. Clarithromycin and Erythromycin The maximum recommended dosage is pravastatin sodium tablets 40 mg once daily . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take orally once daily at any time of the day, with or without food (2.1) . For patients that require a high-intensity statin or are unable to achieve their LDL-C goal receiving pravastatin sodium tablets 80 mg daily, prescribe alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment (2.1) . Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating pravastatin sodium, and adjust the dosage if necessary (2.1) . (2.2) Pediatric Patients (2.3) : aged 8 to 13 years, the recommended dosage is 20 mg once daily. (2.4) See full prescribing information for dosage modifications due to drug interactions (2.5 , 7) . The maximum recommended dosage of pravastatin sodium tablets in patients with severe renal impairment is 40 mg once daily [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.5 Dosage and Administration Modifications Due to Drug Interactions In patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer pravastatin sodium tablets at least 1 hour before or 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant [See Drug Interactions (7.2) ]. Concomitant use of pravastatin sodium tablets with the following drugs requires dosage modifications of pravastatin sodium tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ]: Cyclosporine In patients taking cyclosporine, the recommended starting dosage is pravastatin sodium 10 mg once daily. Clarithromycin and Erythromycin The maximum recommended dosage is pravastatin sodium tablets 40 mg once daily. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Take orally once daily at any time of the day, with or without food (). • For patients that require a high-intensity statin or are unable to achieve their LDL-C goal receiving pravastatin sodium tablets 80 mg daily, prescribe alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment (). • Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating pravastatin sodium, and adjust the dosage if necessary (). • Adults: recommended starting dosage is pravastatin sodium tablets 40 mg to 80 mg once daily. () • Pediatric Patients (): • aged 8 to 13 years, the recommended dosage is 20 mg once daily. • aged 14 to 18 years, the recommended starting dosage is 40 mg once daily. • Severe renal impairment: recommended starting dosage is pravastatin sodium 10 mg once daily. () • See full prescribing information for dosage modifications due to drug interactions ( 2.5 , 7 ). Important Dosage and Administration Information • Take pravastatin sodium tablets orally once daily as a single dose at any time of the day, with or without food. • For patients that require a high-intensity statin or are unable to achieve their LDL-C goal receiving pravastatin sodium tablets 80 mg daily, prescribe alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment. • Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating pravastatin sodium tablets, and adjust the dosage if necessary. Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 8 Years of Age and Older with HeFH • In pediatric patients aged 8 to 13 years, the recommended dosage is pravastatin sodium tablets 20 mg once daily. • In pediatric patients aged 14 to 18 years, the recommended starting dosage is pravastatin sodium tablets 40 mg once daily. 2.4 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment • In patients with severe renal impairment, the recommended starting dosage is pravastatin sodium 10 mg once daily. The maximum recommended dosage of pravastatin sodium tablets in patients with severe renal impairment is 40 mg once daily [see Clinical Pharmacology ( )]. • The recommended dosage of pravastatin sodium tablets for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment is the same as patients with normal renal function. 2.5 Dosage and Administration Modifications Due to Drug Interactions • In patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer pravastatin sodium tablets at least 1 hour before or 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant [See Drug Interactions ( )]. • Concomitant use of pravastatin sodium tablets with the following drugs requires dosage modifications of pravastatin sodium tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( ) and Drug Interactions ( )] : o Cyclosporine In patients taking cyclosporine, the recommended starting dosage is pravastatin sodium 10 mg once daily. The maximum recommended dosage of pravastatin sodium tablets in patients with severe renal impairment is 40 mg once daily [see ] . 2.5 Dosage and Administration Modifications Due to Drug Interactions In patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer pravastatin sodium tablets at least 1 hour before or 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant [see ] . Concomitant use of pravastatin sodium tablets with the following drugs requires dosage modifications of pravastatin sodium tablets [see and ] : Cyclosporine In patients taking cyclosporine, the recommended starting dosage is pravastatin sodium 10 mg once daily. The maximum recommended dosage of pravastatin sodium tablets in patients with severe renal impairment is 40 mg once daily [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.5 Dosage and Administration Modifications Due to Drug Interactions In patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer pravastatin sodium tablets at least 1 hour before or 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ] . Concomitant use of pravastatin sodium tablets with the following drugs requires dosage modifications of pravastatin sodium tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ] : Cyclosporine In patients taking cyclosporine, the recommended starting dosage is pravastatin sodium 10 mg once daily. For patients that require a high-intensity statin or are unable to achieve their LDL-C goal receiving pravastatin sodium 80 mg daily, prescribe alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment ( 2.1 ). Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating pravastatin sodium and adjust the dosage if necessary ( 2.1 ). Adults: recommended starting dosage is pravastatin sodium 40 mg to 80 mg once daily ( 2.2 ). Pediatric Patients ( 2.3 ): aged 8 to 13 years, the recommended dosage is 20 mg once daily. Recommended maximum pravastatin sodium dosage is 40 mg once daily ( 2.4 ). See full prescribing information for dosage modifications due to drug interactions ( 2.5 , 7 ). 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients The recommended starting dose is 40 mg to 80 mg once daily. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 8 Years of Age and Older with HeFH In pediatric patients aged 8 to 13 years, the recommended dosage is pravastatin sodium 20 mg once daily. In pediatric patients aged 14 to 18 years, the recommended starting dosage is pravastatin sodium 40 mg once daily. The maximum recommended dosage of pravastatin sodium in patients with severe renal impairment is 40 mg once daily [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. The recommended dosage of pravastatin sodium for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment is the same as patients with normal renal function. 2.5 Dosage and Administration Modifications Due to Drug Interactions In patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer pravastatin sodium at least 1 hour before or 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant [See Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )]. Concomitant use of pravastatin sodium with the following drugs requires dosage modifications of pravastatin sodium [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] : о Cyclosporine In patients taking cyclosporine, the recommended starting dosage is pravastatin sodium 10 mg once daily. The maximum recommended dosage of pravastatin sodium in patients taking cyclosporine is 20 mg once daily. о Clarithromycin and Erythromycin The maximum recommended dosage is pravastatin sodium 40 mg once daily.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication. (4.1, 6.2, 11) Active liver disease or unexplained, persistent elevations of serum transaminases. (4.2, 5.3 ) Pregnancy (4.3, 8.1, 8.3) Lactation (4.4, 8.2) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication. 4.2 Liver Active liver disease or unexplained, persistent elevations of serum transaminases [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. 4.3 Pregnancy Atherosclerosis is a chronic process and discontinuation of lipid-lowering drugs during pregnancy should have little impact on the outcome of long-term therapy of primary hypercholesterolemia. Cholesterol and other products of cholesterol biosynthesis are essential components for fetal development (including synthesis of steroids and cell membranes). Since statins decrease cholesterol synthesis and possibly the synthesis of other biologically active substances derived from cholesterol, they are contraindicated during pregnancy and in nursing mothers. PRAVASTATIN SHOULD BE ADMINISTERED TO WOMEN OF CHILDBEARING AGE ONLY WHEN SUCH PATIENTS ARE HIGHLY UNLIKELY TO CONCEIVE AND HAVE BEEN INFORMED OF THE POTENTIAL HAZARDS. If the patient becomes pregnant while taking this class of drug, therapy should be discontinued immediately and the patient apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1, 8.3) ]. 4.4 Lactation Pravastatin is present in human milk. Because statins have the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants, women who require Pravastatin Sodium treatment should not breastfeed their infants [see Use in Specific Populations (8.2) ]. 4.1 Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Hypersensitivity to any pravastatin or any excipients in pravastatin sodium tablets. Hypersensitivity to pravastatin or any excipient in pravastatin sodium tablets ( 4 ) Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis ( 4 , 5.3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Hypersensitivity to pravastatin or any excipient in pravastatin sodium tablets (4) Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis (4 , 5.3) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( ) ] . • Hypersensitivity to pravastatin or any excipient in pravastatin sodium tablets () • Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis (, ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to pravastatin or any excipient in pravastatin sodium tablets ( 4 ). Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis ( 4 , 5.3 ). Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] .
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS For the concurrent therapy of either cyclosporine, fibrates, niacin (nicotinic acid), or erythromycin, the risk of myopathy increases [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Concomitant lipid-lowering therapies: use with fibrates or lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin increases the risk of adverse skeletal muscle effects. Caution should be used when prescribing with Pravastatin Sodium. (7) Cyclosporine: combination increases exposure. Limit pravastatin to 20 mg once daily. (2.6, 7.1) Clarithromycin: combination increases exposure. Limit pravastatin to 40 mg once daily. (2.7, 7.2) 7.1 Cyclosporine The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant administration of cyclosporine. Limit pravastatin to 20 mg once daily for concomitant use with cyclosporine [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 Clarithromycin and Other Macrolide Antibiotics The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant administration of clarithromycin. Limit pravastatin to 40 mg once daily for concomitant use with clarithromycin [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Other macrolides (e.g., erythromycin and azithromycin) have the potential to increase statin exposures while used in combination. Pravastatin should be used cautiously with macrolide antibiotics due to a potential increased risk of myopathies. 7.3 Colchicine The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant administration of colchicine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7.4 Gemfibrozil Due to an increased risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis when HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are coadministered with gemfibrozil, concomitant administration of Pravastatin Sodium with gemfibrozil should be avoided [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7.5 Other Fibrates Because it is known that the risk of myopathy during treatment with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors is increased with concurrent administration of other fibrates, Pravastatin Sodium should be administered with caution when used concomitantly with other fibrates [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7.6 Niacin The risk of skeletal muscle effects may be enhanced when pravastatin is used in combination with niacin; a reduction in Pravastatin Sodium dosage should be considered in this setting [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7.1 Cyclosporine The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant administration of cyclosporine. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for details regarding concomitant use of pravastatin sodium tablets with other drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. ( 2.5 , 7.1 ) Bile Acid Sequestrants: in patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer pravastatin sodium tablets at least 1 hour before or at least 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Pravastatin Pravastatin is a substrate of the transport protein OATP1B1. Pravastatin plasma levels can be significantly increased with concomitant administration of inhibitors of OATP1B1. Table 3 includes a list of drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly with pravastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . Table 3: Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Pravastatin Gemfibrozil Clinical Impact: There is an increased risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis when pravastatin is administered with gemfibrozil Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of gemfibrozil with pravastatin . Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of cyclosporine with pravastatin. Intervention: Initiate with a dosage of pravastatin sodium 10 mg once daily. Do not exceed pravastatin 20 mg once daily [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )]. Select Macrolide Antibiotics Clinical Impact: The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased by concomitant use of clarithromycin or erythromycin with pravastatin. Other macrolides (e.g., azithromycin) have the potential to increase pravastatin exposures and increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomintantly. Intervention: For patients taking erythromycin or clarithromycin, do not exceed 40 mg pravastatin once daily [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )]. Niacin Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been observed with concomitant use of niacin with pravastatin. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using niacin concomitantly with pravastatin outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. If concomitant use is decided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy, particularly during initiation of therapy and during upward dose titration of either drug. Fibrates (other than Gemfibrozil) Clinical Impact: Fibrates may cause myopathy when given alone. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of fibrates with pravastatin. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using fibrates concomitantly with pravastatin outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Colchicine Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with concomitant use of colchicine with pravastatin. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using colchicine concomitantly with pravastatin outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. 7.2 Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Pravastatin Table 4 presents drug interactions that may decrease the efficacy of pravastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 4: Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Pravastatin Bile Acid Sequestrants Clinical Impact: Concomitant cholestyramine or colestipol administration decreased the mean exposure of pravastatin approximately 51% and 47%, respectively [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: In patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer pravastatin at least 1 hour before or at least 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for details regarding concomitant use of pravastatin sodium with other drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. (2.5 , 7.1) Bile Acid Sequestrants: in patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer pravastatin sodium at least 1 hour before or at least 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant (7.2) 7.1 Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Pravastatin Sodium Pravastatin sodium is a substrate of the transport protein OATP1B1. Pravastatin sodium plasma levels can be significantly increased with concomitant administration of inhibitors of OATP1B1. Table 3 includes a list of drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly with pravastatin sodium and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 3: Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Pravastatin Sodium Gemfibrozil Clinical Impact: There is an increased risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis when pravastatin sodium is administered with gemfibrozil Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of gemfibrozil with pravastatin sodium. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of cyclosporine with pravastatin sodium. Do not exceed pravastatin sodium 20 mg once daily [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Select Macrolide Antibiotics Clinical Impact: The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased by concomitant use of clarithromycin or erythromycin with pravastatin sodium. Other macrolides (e.g., azithromycin) have the potential to increase pravastatin sodium exposures and increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly. Intervention: For patients taking erythromycin or clarithromycin, do not exceed 40 mg pravastatin sodium once daily [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Niacin Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been observed with concomitant use of niacin with pravastatin sodium. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using niacin concomitantly with pravastatin sodium outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of fibrates with pravastatin sodium. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using fibrates concomitantly with pravastatin sodium outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Colchicine Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with concomitant use of colchicine with pravastatin sodium. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using colchicine concomitantly with pravastatin sodium outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. 7.2 Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Pravastatin Sodium Table 4 presents drug interactions that may decrease the efficacy of pravastatin sodium and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 4: Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Pravastatin Sodium Bile Acid Sequestrants Clinical Impact: Concomitant cholestyramine or colestipol administration decreased the mean exposure of pravastatin approximately 51% and 47%, respectively [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: In patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer pravastatin sodium at least 1 hour before or at least 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • See full prescribing information for details regarding concomitant use of pravastatin sodium with other drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. ( 2.5 , ) • Bile Acid Sequestrants: in patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer pravastatin sodium at least 1 hour before or at least 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant () 7.1 Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Pravastatin Sodium Pravastatin sodium is a substrate of the transport protein OATP1B1. Table 3 includes a list of drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly with pravastatin sodium and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions ( ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( )]. Do not exceed pravastatin sodium 20 mg once daily [see Dosage and Administration ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. )]. Other macrolides (e.g., azithromycin) have the potential to increase pravastatin sodium exposures and increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomintantly. Intervention: For patients taking erythromycin or clarithromycin, do not exceed 40 mg pravastatin sodium once daily [see Dosage and Administration ( Error! Table 4: Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Pravastatin Sodium Bile Acid Sequestrants Clinical Impact: Concomitant cholestyramine or colestipol administration decreased the mean exposure of pravastatin approximately 51% and 47%, respectively [see Clinical Pharmacology ( )]. Intervention: In patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer pravastatin sodium at least 1 hour before or at least 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant [see Dosage and Administration ( Error! 7.1 Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Pravastatin Sodium Pravastatin sodium is a substrate of the transport protein OATP1B1. Table 3 includes a list of drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly with pravastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them [see and ] . Table 3: Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Pravastatin Gemfibrozil Clinical Impact: There is an increased risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis when pravastatin is administered with gemfibrozil Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of gemfibrozil with pravastatin. Do not exceed pravastatin 20 mg once daily [see Dosage and Administration (2.5)] . Other macrolides (e.g., azithromycin) have the potential to increase pravastatin exposures and increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly. Intervention: For patients taking erythromycin or clarithromycin, do not exceed 40 mg pravastatin once daily [see Dosage and Administration (2.5)] . Table 4: Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Pravastatin Bile Acid Sequestrants Clinical Impact: Concomitant cholestyramine or colestipol administration decreased the mean exposure of pravastatin approximately 51% and 47%, respectively [see ]. Intervention: In patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer pravastatin at least 1 hour before or at least 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant [see ] . Table 3 includes a list of drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly with pravastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Table 4: Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Pravastatin Bile Acid Sequestrants Clinical Impact: Concomitant cholestyramine or colestipol administration decreased the mean exposure of pravastatin approximately 51% and 47%, respectively [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: In patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer pravastatin at least 1 hour before or at least 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] . ( 2.5 , 7.1 ) Bile Acid Sequestrants: in patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer pravastatin sodium tablets at least 1 hour before or at least 4hours after the bile acid sequestrant ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Drug Interactions that Increases the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with pravastatin sodium Pravastatin sodium is a substrate of the transport protein OATP1B1. Table 3 includes a list of drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly with pravastatin sodium and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Table 3: Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Pravastatin Sodium Tablets Gemfibrozil Clinical Impact: There is an increased risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis when pravastatin sodium is administered with gemfibrozil Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of gemfibrozil with pravastatin sodium Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of cyclosporine with pravastatin sodium. Do not exceed pravastatin sodium 20 mg once daily [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )]. Intervention: For patients taking erythromycin or clarithromycin, do not exceed 40 mg pravastatin sodium once daily [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )]. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using niacin concomitantly with pravastatin sodium outweigh the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using fibrates concomitantly with pravastatin sodium outweigh the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using colchicine concomitantly with pravastatin sodium outweigh the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. If concomitant use is decided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy, particularly during initiation of therapy and during upward dose titration of either drug 7.2 Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of pravastatin sodium Table 4 presents drug interactions that may decrease the efficacy of pravastatin sodium and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 4: Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Pravastatin Sodium Bile Acid Sequestrants Clinical Impact: Concomitant cholestyramine or colestipol administration decreased the mean exposure of pravastatin approximately 51% and 47%, respectively [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: In patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer pravastatin sodium tablets at least 1 hour before or at least 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )].

=== SILDENAFIL ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sildenafil tablets are indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. Sildenafil is a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sildenafil citrate is indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. Sildenafil citrate is a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED) ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Sildenafil tablets are indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (WHO Group I) in adults to improve exercise ability and delay clinical worsening. The delay in clinical worsening was demonstrated when sildenafil tablets were added to background epoprostenol therapy [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. Studies establishing effectiveness were short-term (12 to 16 weeks), and included predominately patients with New York Heart Association (NYHA) Functional Class II-III symptoms and idiopathic etiology (71%) or associated with connective tissue disease (CTD) (25%). Limitation of Use: Adding sildenafil to bosentan therapy does not result in any beneficial effect on exercise capacity [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. Sildenafil is a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) (WHO Group I) in adults to improve exercise ability and delay clinical worsening. Studies establishing effectiveness were short-term (12 to 16 weeks), and included predominately patients with NYHA Functional Class II-III symptoms. Etiologies were idiopathic (71%) or associated with connective tissue disease (25%). ( 1 ) Limitation of Use : Adding sildenafil to bosentan therapy does not result in any beneficial effect on exercise capacity. ( 1 , 14 ) 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Adults Sildenafil for oral suspension is indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) (World Health Organization [WHO] Group I) in adults to improve exercise ability and delay clinical worsening [see Clinical Studies (14)] . Pediatric use information is approved for Viatris Specialty LLC's, REVATIO (sildenafil) for Oral Suspension. However, due to Viatris Specialty LLC's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information Adults Sildenafil is a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) (World Health Organization [WHO] Group I) in adults to improve exercise ability and delay clinical worsening. (1) 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Sildenafil tablets are indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. Sildenafil tablet is a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED) (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE VIAGRA is indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. VIAGRA is a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED) ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Adults Sildenafil for oral suspension is indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) (World Health Organization [WHO] Group I) in adults to improve exercise ability and delay clinical worsening [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . However, due to Viatris Specialty LLC's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. Adults Sildenafil is a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) (World Health Organization [WHO] Group I) in adults to improve exercise ability and delay clinical worsening. ( 1 ) Sildenafil tablets is a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED)
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For most patients, the recommended dose is 50 mg taken, as needed, approximately 1 hour before sexual activity. However, sildenafil tablets may be taken anywhere from 30 minutes to 4 hours before sexual activity ( 2.1 ) Based on effectiveness and toleration, may increase to a maximum of 100 mg or decrease to 25 mg ( 2.1 ) Maximum recommended dosing frequency is once per day ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Dosage Information For most patients, the recommended dose is 50 mg taken, as needed, approximately 1 hour before sexual activity. However, sildenafil tablets may be taken anywhere from 30 minutes to 4 hours before sexual activity. The maximum recommended dosing frequency is once per day. Based on effectiveness and toleration, the dose may be increased to a maximum recommended dose of 100 mg or decreased to 25 mg. 2.2 Use with Food Sildenafil tablets may be taken with or without food. 2.3 Dosage Adjustments in Specific Situations Sildenafil tablets was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates and its administration in patients who use nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form is therefore contraindicated [ see Contraindications (4.1) , Drug Interactions (7.1) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. When sildenafil tablets are co-administered with an alpha-blocker, patients should be stable on alpha-blocker therapy prior to initiating sildenafil tablets treatment and sildenafil tablets should be initiated at 25 mg [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Drug Interactions (7.2) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 2.4 Dosage Adjustments Due to Drug Interactions Ritonavir The recommended dose for ritonavir-treated patients is 25 mg prior to sexual activity and the recommended maximum dose is 25 mg within a 48 hour period because concomitant administration increased the blood levels of sildenafil by 11-fold [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) , Drug Interactions (7.4) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. CYP3A4 Inhibitors Consider a starting dose of 25 mg in patients treated with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, or saquinavir) or erythromycin. Clinical data have shown that co-administration with saquinavir or erythromycin increased plasma levels of sildenafil by about 3 fold [ see Drug Interactions (7.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.5 Dosage Adjustments in Special Populations Consider a starting dose of 25 mg in patients > 65 years, patients with hepatic impairment (e.g., cirrhosis), and patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/minute) because administration of sildenafil tablets in these patients resulted in higher plasma levels of sildenafil [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.5 , 8.6, 8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.3 Dosage Adjustments in Specific Situations Sildenafil citrate was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates and its administration in patients who use nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form is therefore contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4.1 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) ] . When sildenafil tablets are co-administered with an alpha-blocker, patients should be stable on alpha-blocker therapy prior to initiating sildenafil tablets treatment and sildenafil tablets should be initiated at 25 mg [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.2 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) ]. 2.4 Dosage Adjustments Due to Drug Interactions Ritonavir The recommended dose for ritonavir-treated patients is 25 mg prior to sexual activity and the recommended maximum dose is 25 mg within a 48 hour period because concomitant administration increased the blood levels of sildenafil by 11-fold [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.4 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Clinical data have shown that co-administration with saquinavir or erythromycin increased plasma levels of sildenafil by about 3 fold [ see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 2.5 Dosage Adjustments in Special Populations Consider a starting dose of 25 mg in patients > 65 years, patients with hepatic impairment (e.g., cirrhosis), and patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/minute) because administration of sildenafil tablets in these patients resulted in higher plasma levels of sildenafil [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 , 8.6 , 8.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Tablet: 20 mg three times a day, 4-6 hours apart ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Sildenafil Tablets The recommended dose of sildenafil tablets is 20 mg three times a day. Administer sildenafil tablets doses 4-6 hours apart. In the clinical trial no greater efficacy was achieved with the use of higher doses. Treatment with doses higher than 20 mg three times a day is not recommended. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Adults: 20 mg three times a day. (2.1) 2.1 Recommended Dosage in Adults Oral Dosage The recommended dosage of sildenafil for oral suspension is 20 mg three times a day. [see Clinical Studies (14)] . Pediatric use information is approved for Viatris Specialty LLC's, REVATIO (sildenafil) for Oral Suspension. However, due to Viatris Specialty LLC's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.3 Reconstitution of the Powder for Oral Suspension Note: Reconstitute the contents of the bottle with a total volume of 90 mL (60 mL followed by 30 mL) . Refer to the detailed instructions below. Tap the bottle to loosen the powder. Add 60 mL of water to the bottle. Replace the cap and shake the bottle vigorously for a minimum of 30 seconds. Add another 30 mL of water to the bottle. Remove cap and press the bottle adaptor into the neck of the bottle. Replace the cap on the bottle. Write the expiration date of the reconstituted oral suspension on the bottle label (the expiration date of the reconstituted oral suspension is 60 days from the date of reconstitution). Incompatibilities Do not mix with any other medication or additional flavoring agent. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION •For most patients, the recommended dose is 50 mg taken, as needed, approximately 1 hour before sexual activity. However, sildenafil tablets may be taken anywhere from 30 minutes to 4 hours before sexual activity (2.1) •Based on effectiveness and toleration, may increase to a maximum of 100 mg or decrease to 25 mg (2.1) •Maximum recommended dosing frequency is once per day (2.1) 2.1 Dosage Information For most patients, the recommended dose is 50 mg taken, as needed, approximately 1 hour before sexual activity. 2.3 Dosage Adjustments in Specific Situations Sildenafil tablets were shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates and its administration in patients who use nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form is therefore contraindicated [see Contraindications (4.1), Drug Interactions (7.1), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. When sildenafil tablets are co-administered with an alpha-blocker, patients should be stable on alpha-blocker therapy prior to initiating sildenafil tablets treatment and sildenafil tablets should be initiated at 25 mg [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Drug Interactions (7.2), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. 2.4 Dosage Adjustments Due to Drug Interactions Ritonavir The recommended dose for ritonavir-treated patients is 25 mg prior to sexual activity and the recommended maximum dose is 25 mg within a 48 hour period because concomitant administration increased the blood levels of sildenafil by 11-fold [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6), Drug Interactions (7.4), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Clinical data have shown that co-administration with saquinavir or erythromycin increased plasma levels of sildenafil by about 3 fold [see Drug Interactions (7.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2.5 Dosage Adjustments in Special Populations Consider a starting dose of 25 mg in patients > 65 years, patients with hepatic impairment (e.g., cirrhosis), and patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/minute) because administration of sildenafil tablets in these patients resulted in higher plasma levels of sildenafil [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5, 8.6, 8.7) andClinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For most patients, the recommended dose is 50 mg taken, as needed, approximately 1 hour before sexual activity. However, VIAGRA may be taken anywhere from 30 minutes to 4 hours before sexual activity ( 2.1 ) • Based on effectiveness and toleration, may increase to a maximum of 100 mg or decrease to 25 mg ( 2.1 ) • Maximum recommended dosing frequency is once per day ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Dosage Information For most patients, the recommended dose is 50 mg taken, as needed, approximately 1 hour before sexual activity. However, VIAGRA may be taken anywhere from 30 minutes to 4 hours before sexual activity. 2.2 Use with Food VIAGRA may be taken with or without food. 2.3 Dosage Adjustments in Specific Situations VIAGRA was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates and its administration in patients who use nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form is therefore contraindicated [ see Contraindications (4.1) , Drug Interactions (7.1) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . When VIAGRA is co-administered with an alpha-blocker, patients should be stable on alpha-blocker therapy prior to initiating VIAGRA treatment and VIAGRA should be initiated at 25 mg [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Drug Interactions (7.2) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 2.5 Dosage Adjustments in Special Populations Consider a starting dose of 25 mg in patients > 65 years, patients with hepatic impairment (e.g., cirrhosis), and patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/minute) because administration of VIAGRA in these patients resulted in higher plasma levels of sildenafil [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.5 , 8.6 , 8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults: 20 mg three times a day. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage in Adults Oral Dosage The recommended dosage of sildenafil for oral suspension is 20 mg three times a day [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . 1. 2. 3. Replace cap and shake the bottle vigorously for a minimum of 30 seconds. 4. 5. 6. Remove the cap and press the bottle adaptor into the neck of the bottle. 7. However, sildenafil tablets may be taken anywhere from 30 minutes to 4 hours before sexual activity (2.1) • Based on effectiveness and toleration, may increase to a maximum of 100 mg or decrease to 25 mg (2.1) • Maximum recommended dosing frequency is once per day (2.1) 2.1 Dosage Information For most patients, the recommended dose is 50 mg taken, as needed, approximately 1 hour before sexual activity. 2.3 Dosage Adjustments in Specific Situations Sildenafil tablets was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates and its administration in patients who use nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form is therefore contraindicated [see Contraindications (4.1), Drug Interactions (7.1), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. 2.4 Dosage Adjustments Due to Drug Interactions Ritonavir The recommended dose for ritonavir-treated patients is 25 mg prior to sexual activity and the recommended maximum dose is 25mg within a 48hour period because concomitant administration increased the blood levels of sildenafil by 11-fold [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6), Drug Interactions (7.4), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2.5 Dosage Adjustments in Special Populations Consider a starting dose of 25 mg in patients > 65 years, patients with hepatic impairment (e.g., cirrhosis), and patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/minute) because administration of sildenafil tablets in these patients resulted in higher plasma levels of sildenafil [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.5, 8.6, 8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.1 Dosage Information For most patients, the recommended dose is 50 mg taken, as needed, approximately 1 hour before sexual activity.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Administration of sildenafil tablets to patients using nitric oxide donors, such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form. Sildenafil tablets was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates ( 4.1 , 7.1 , 12.2 ) Known hypersensitivity to sildenafil or any component of tablet ( 4.2 ) Administration with guanylate cyclase (GC) stimulators, such as riociguat ( 4.3 ) 4.1 Nitrates Consistent with its known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.1 , 12.2 ) ], sildenafil tablets was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, and its administration to patients who are using nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form either regularly and/or intermittently is therefore contraindicated. After patients have taken sildenafil tablets, it is unknown when nitrates, if necessary, can be safely administered. Although plasma levels of sildenafil at 24 hours post dose are much lower than at peak concentration, it is unknown whether nitrates can be safely co-administered at this time point [ see Dosage and Administration (2.3) , Drug Interactions (7.1) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 4.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Sildenafil tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to sildenafil, as contained in sildenafil tablets and REVATIO, or any component of the tablet. Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported, including rash and urticaria [ see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. 4.3 Concomitant Guanylate Cyclase (GC) Stimulators Do not use sildenafil tablets in patients who are using a GC stimulator, such as riociguat. PDE5 inhibitors, including sildenafil, may potentiate the hypotensive effects of GC stimulators. Sildenafil citrate was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates ( 4.1 , 7.1 , 12.2 ) Known hypersensitivity to sildenafil or any component of tablet ( 4.2 ) Administration with guanylate cyclase (GC) stimulators, such as riociguat ( 4.3 ) 4.1 Nitrates Consistent with its known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.1 , 12.2 ) ], sildenafil citrate was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, and its administration to patients who are using nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form either regularly and/or intermittently is therefore contraindicated. Although plasma levels of sildenafil at 24 hours post dose are much lower than at peak concentration, it is unknown whether nitrates can be safely co-administered at this time point [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) ]. 4.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Sildenafil citrate is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to sildenafil, as contained in sildenafil tablets and REVATIO, or any component of the tablet. Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported, including rash and urticaria [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ) ] . PDE5 inhibitors, including sildenafil citrate, may potentiate the hypotensive effects of GC stimulators. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sildenafil tablets are contraindicated in patients with: • Concomitant use of organic nitrates in any form, either regularly or intermittently, because of the greater risk of hypotension [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. • Concomitant use of riociguat, a guanylate cyclase stimulator. PDE-5 inhibitors, including sildenafil, may potentiate the hypotensive effects of riociguat. • Known hypersensitivity to sildenafil or any component of the tablet. Hypersensitivity, including anaphylactic reaction, anaphylactic shock and anaphylactoid reaction, has been reported in association with the use of sildenafil. • Use with organic nitrates or riociguat ( 4 ) • History of hypersensitivity reaction to sildenafil or any component of the tablet ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sildenafil is contraindicated in patients with: Concomitant use of organic nitrates in any form, either regularly or intermittently, because of the greater risk of hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . Concomitant use of riociguat, a guanylate cyclase stimulator. Phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitors, including sildenafil, may potentiate the hypotensive effects of riociguat. Known hypersensitivity to sildenafil or any component of the oral suspension. Use with organic nitrates or riociguat. (4) History of hypersensitivity reaction to sildenafil or any component of the oral suspension. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS •Administration of sildenafil tablets to patients using nitric oxide donors, such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form. Sildenafil tablets were shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates ( 4.1 , 7.1 , 12.2 ) •Known hypersensitivity to sildenafil or any component of tablet (4.2) •Administration with guanylate cyclase (GC) stimulators, such as riociguat (4.3) 4.1 Nitrates Consistent with its known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.1 , 12.2)] , sildenafil tablets were shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, and its administration to patients who are using nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form either regularly and/or intermittently is therefore contraindicated. Although plasma levels of sildenafil at 24 hours post dose are much lower than at peak concentration, it is unknown whether nitrates can be safely co-administered at this time point [see Dosage and Administration (2.3), Drug Interactions (7.1), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported, including rash and urticaria [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. PDE5 inhibitors, including sildenafil tablets, may potentiate the hypotensive effects of GC stimulators. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Administration of VIAGRA to patients using nitric oxide donors, such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form. VIAGRA was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates ( 4.1 , 7.1 , 12.2 ) • Known hypersensitivity to sildenafil or any component of tablet ( 4.2 ) • Administration with guanylate cyclase (GC) stimulators, such as riociguat ( 4.3 ) 4.1 Nitrates Consistent with its known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.1 , 12.2) ], VIAGRA was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, and its administration to patients who are using nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form either regularly and/or intermittently is therefore contraindicated. After patients have taken VIAGRA, it is unknown when nitrates, if necessary, can be safely administered. 4.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions VIAGRA is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to sildenafil, as contained in VIAGRA and REVATIO, or any component of the tablet. Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported, including rash and urticaria [ see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . 4.3 Concomitant Guanylate Cyclase (GC) Stimulators Do not use VIAGRA in patients who are using a GC stimulator, such as riociguat. PDE5 inhibitors, including VIAGRA, may potentiate the hypotensive effects of GC stimulators. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sildenafil is contraindicated in patients with: Concomitant use of organic nitrates in any form, either regularly or intermittently, because of the greater risk of hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Known hypersensitivity to sildenafil or any component of the tablet, injection, or oral suspension. ( 4 ) History of hypersensitivity reaction to sildenafil or any component of the tablet, injection, or oral suspension. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Administration of sildenafil tablets to patients using nitric oxide donors, such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form. Sildenafil tablets were shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates (4.1, 7.1, 12.2) • Known hypersensitivity to sildenafil or any component of tablet (4.2) • Administration with guanylate cyclase (GC) stimulators, such as riociguat (4.3) 4.1 Nitrates Consistent with its known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.1, 12.2) ], sildenafil tablets were shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, and its administration to patients who are using nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form either regularly and/or intermittently is therefore contraindicated. Although plasma levels of sildenafil at 24 hours post dose are much lower than at peak concentration, it is unknown whether nitrates can be safely co-administered at this time point [ see Dosage and Administration (2.3), Drug Interactions (7.1), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported, including rash and urticarial [ see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. 4.1 Nitrates Consistent with its known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.1, 12.2) ], sildenafil tablets were shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, and its administration to patients who are using nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form either regularly and/or intermittently is therefore contraindicated.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Sildenafil can potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, alpha blockers, and anti-hypertensives ( 4.1 , 5.5 , 7.1 , 7.2 , 7.3 , 12.2 ) With concomitant use of alpha blockers, initiate sildenafil at 25 mg dose ( 2.3 ) CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole, itraconazole, erythromycin): Increase sildenafil exposure ( 2.4 , 7.4 , 12.3 ) Ritonavir: Do not exceed a maximum single dose of 25 mg in a 48 hour period ( 2.4 , 5.6 ) Erythromycin or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, saquinavir): Consider a starting dose of 25 mg ( 2.4 , 7.4 ) 7.1 Nitrates Administration of sildenafil with nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form is contraindicated. Consistent with its known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, sildenafil was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates [ see Dosage and Administration (2.3) , Contraindications (4.1) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 7.2 Alpha-blockers Use caution when co-administering alpha-blockers with sildenafil because of potential additive blood pressure-lowering effects. When sildenafil is co-administered with an alpha-blocker, patients should be stable on alpha-blocker therapy prior to initiating sildenafil treatment and sildenafil should be initiated at the lowest dose [ see Dosage and Administration (2.3) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 7.3 Amlodipine When sildenafil 100 mg was co-administered with amlodipine (5 mg or 10 mg) to hypertensive patients, the mean additional reduction on supine blood pressure was 8 mmHg systolic and 7 mmHg diastolic [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 7.4 Ritonavir and other CYP3A4 inhibitors Co-administration of ritonavir, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, greatly increased the systemic exposure of sildenafil (11-fold increase in AUC). It is therefore recommended not to exceed a maximum single dose of 25 mg of sildenafil in a 48 hour period [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Co-administration of erythromycin, a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, resulted in a 160% and 182% increases in sildenafil C max and AUC, respectively. Co-administration of saquinavir, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, resulted in 140% and 210% increases in sildenafil C max and AUC, respectively. Stronger CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole or itraconazole could be expected to have greater effects than seen with saquinavir. A starting dose of 25 mg of sildenafil should be considered in patients taking erythromycin or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (such as saquinavir, ketoconazole, itraconazole) [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.5 Alcohol In a drug-drug interaction study sildenafil 50 mg given with alcohol 0.5 g/kg in which mean maximum blood alcohol levels of 0.08% was achieved, sildenafil did not potentiate the hypotensive effect of alcohol in healthy volunteers [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Sildenafil citrate can potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, alpha blockers, and anti-hypertensives ( 4.1 , 5.5 , 7.1 , 7.2 , 7.3 , 12.2 ) With concomitant use of alpha blockers, initiate sildenafil citrate at 25 mg dose ( 2.3 ) CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole, itraconazole, erythromycin): Increase sildenafil citrate exposure ( 2.4 , 7.4 , 12.3 ) Ritonavir: Do not exceed a maximum single dose of 25 mg in a 48 hour period ( 2.4 , 5.6 ) Erythromycin or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, saquinavir): Consider a starting dose of 25 mg ( 2.4 , 7.4 ) 7.1 Nitrates Administration of sildenafil tablets with nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form is contraindicated. Consistent with its known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, sildenafil citrate was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ), Contraindications ( 4.1 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) ] . 7.2 Alpha-blockers Use caution when co-administering alpha-blockers with sildenafil tablets because of potential additive blood pressure-lowering effects. When sildenafil tablets are co-administered with an alpha-blocker, patients should be stable on alpha-blocker therapy prior to initiating sildenafil tablets treatment and sildenafil tablets should be initiated at the lowest dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ),Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) ] . 7.3 Amlodipine When sildenafil tablets 100 mg were co-administered with amlodipine (5 mg or 10 mg) to hypertensive patients, the mean additional reduction on supine blood pressure was 8 mmHg systolic and 7 mmHg diastolic [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) ]. It is therefore recommended not to exceed a maximum single dose of 25 mg of sildenafil citrate in a 48 hour period [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. A starting dose of 25 mg of sildenafil tablets should be considered in patients taking erythromycin or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (such as saquinavir, ketoconazole, itraconazole) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . 7.5 Alcohol In a drug-drug interaction study sildenafil 50 mg given with alcohol 0.5 g/kg in which mean maximum blood alcohol levels of 0.08% was achieved, sildenafil did not potentiate the hypotensive effect of alcohol in healthy volunteers [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Nitrates Concomitant use of sildenafil with nitrates in any form is contraindicated [ see Contraindications (4) ]. Ritonavir and other Potent CYP3A Inhibitors Concomitant use of sildenafil with ritonavir and other potent CYP3A inhibitors is not recommended [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Other drugs that reduce blood pressure Alpha blockers . In drug-drug interaction studies, sildenafil (25 mg, 50 mg, or 100 mg) and the alpha-blocker doxazosin (4 mg or 8 mg) were administered simultaneously to patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) stabilized on doxazosin therapy. In these study populations, mean additional reductions of supine systolic and diastolic blood pressure of 7/7 mmHg, 9/5 mmHg, and 8/4 mmHg, respectively, were observed. Mean additional reductions of standing blood pressure of 6/6 mmHg, 11/4 mmHg, and 4/5 mmHg, respectively, were also observed. There were infrequent reports of patients who experienced symptomatic postural hypotension. These reports included dizziness and light-headedness, but not syncope. Amlodipine . When sildenafil 100 mg oral was co-administered with amlodipine, 5 mg or 10 mg oral, to hypertensive patients, the mean additional reduction on supine blood pressure was 8 mmHg systolic and 7 mmHg diastolic. Monitor blood pressure when co-administering blood pressure lowering drugs with sildenafil [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. • Concomitant alpha-blockers or amlodipine: Note additive blood pressure lowering effects. (7) • Use with ritonavir and other potent CYP3A inhibitors: Not recommended. (7, 12.3) • Concomitant PDE-5 inhibitors: Avoid use with Viagra or other PDE-5 inhibitors. (5.7) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Nitrates Concomitant use of sildenafil with nitrates in any form is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)] . Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Concomitant use of sildenafil with strong CYP3A inhibitors is not recommended [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Moderate-to-Strong CYP3A Inducers Concomitant use of sildenafil with moderate-to-strong CYP3A inducers (such as bosentan) decreases the sildenafil exposure. Dose up-titration of sildenafil may be needed when initiating treatment with moderate-to-strong CYP3A inducers. Reduce the dose of sildenafil to 20 mg three times a day when discontinuing treatment with moderate-to-strong CYP3A inducers [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Clinical Studies (14)] . Use with strong CYP3A inhibitors: Not recommended. (7, 12.3) Concomitant PDE-5 inhibitors: Avoid use with Viagra® or other PDE-5 inhibitors. (5.6) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS •Sildenafil tablets can potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, alpha blockers, and anti-hypertensives ( 4.1 , 5.5 , 7.1 , 7.2 , 7.3 , 12.2 ) •With concomitant use of alpha blockers, initiate sildenafil tablets at 25 mg dose (2.3) •CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole, itraconazole, erythromycin): Increase sildenafil tablets exposure (2.4 , 7.4, 12.3 ) •Ritonavir: Do not exceed a maximum single dose of 25 mg in a 48 hour period ( 2.4 , 5.6) •Erythromycin or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, saquinavir): Consider a starting dose of 25 mg (2.4, 7.4) 7.1 Nitrates Administration of sildenafil tablets with nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form is contraindicated. Consistent with its known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, sildenafil tablets were shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates [see Dosage and Administration (2.3), Contraindications (4.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. When sildenafil tablets are co-administered with an alpha-blocker, patients should be stable on alpha-blocker therapy prior to initiating sildenafil tablets treatment and sildenafil tablets should be initiated at the lowest dose [see Dosage and Administration (2.3), Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. 7.3 Amlodipine When sildenafil tablets 100 mg were co-administered with amlodipine (5 mg or 10 mg) to hypertensive patients, the mean additional reduction on supine blood pressure was 8 mmHg systolic and 7 mmHg diastolic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. It is therefore recommended not to exceed a maximum single dose of 25 mg of sildenafil tablets in a 48 hour period [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.6), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)]. Co-administration of erythromycin, a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, resulted in a 160% and 182% increases in sildenafil Cmax and AUC, respectively. Co-administration of saquinavir, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, resulted in 140% and 210% increases in sildenafil Cmax and AUC, respectively. A starting dose of 25 mg of sildenafil tablets should be considered in patients taking erythromycin or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (such as saquinavir, ketoconazole, itracanozole) [see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)]. 7.5 Alcohol In a drug-drug interaction study sildenafil 50 mg given with alcohol 0.5 g/kg in which mean maximum blood alcohol levels of 0.08% was achieved, sildenafil did not potentiate the hypotensive effect of alcohol in healthy volunteers [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • VIAGRA can potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, alpha blockers, and anti-hypertensives ( 4.1 , 5.5 , 7.1 , 7.2 , 7.3 , 12.2 ) • With concomitant use of alpha blockers, initiate VIAGRA at 25 mg dose ( 2.3 ) • CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole, itraconazole, erythromycin): Increase VIAGRA exposure ( 2.4 , 7.4 , 12.3 ) • Ritonavir: Do not exceed a maximum single dose of 25 mg in a 48 hour period ( 2.4 , 5.6 ) • Erythromycin or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, saquinavir): Consider a starting dose of 25 mg ( 2.4 , 7.4 ) 7.1 Nitrates Administration of VIAGRA with nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form is contraindicated. Consistent with its known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, VIAGRA was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates [ see Dosage and Administration (2.3) , Contraindications (4.1) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . 7.2 Alpha-blockers Use caution when co-administering alpha-blockers with VIAGRA because of potential additive blood pressure-lowering effects. When VIAGRA is co-administered with an alpha-blocker, patients should be stable on alpha-blocker therapy prior to initiating VIAGRA treatment and VIAGRA should be initiated at the lowest dose [ see Dosage and Administration (2.3) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . 7.3 Amlodipine When VIAGRA 100 mg was co-administered with amlodipine (5 mg or 10 mg) to hypertensive patients, the mean additional reduction on supine blood pressure was 8 mmHg systolic and 7 mmHg diastolic [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. It is therefore recommended not to exceed a maximum single dose of 25 mg of VIAGRA in a 48 hour period [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. A starting dose of 25 mg of VIAGRA should be considered in patients taking erythromycin or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (such as saquinavir, ketoconazole, itraconazole) [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Nitrates Concomitant use of sildenafil with nitrates in any form is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Concomitant use of sildenafil with strong CYP3A inhibitors is not recommended [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Reduce the dose of sildenafil to 20 mg three times a day when discontinuing treatment with moderate-to-strong CYP3A inducers [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . ( 7 , 12.3 ) Concomitant PDE-5 inhibitors: Avoid use with Viagra ® or other PDE-5 inhibitors. ( 5.6 ) Pediatric use information is approved for Viatris Specialty LLC's, REVATIO (sildenafil) for oral suspension. However, due to Viatris Specialty LLC's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Sildenafil tablets can potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, alpha blockers, and anti-hypertensives (4.1, 5.5, 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 12.2) • With concomitant use of alpha blockers, initiate sildenafil tablets at 25 mg dose (2.3) • CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole, itraconazole, erythromycin): Increase sildenafil tablets exposure (2.4, 7.4, 12.3) Ritonavir: Do not exceed a maximum single dose of 25 mg in a 48hour period (2.4, 5.6) Erythromycin or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, saquinavir): Consider a starting dose of 25 mg (2.4, 7.4) 7.1 Nitrates Administration of sildenafil tablets with nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form is contraindicated. Consistent with its known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, sildenafil tablets were shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates [see Dosage and Administration (2.3), Contraindications (4.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. When sildenafil tablets are co-administered with an alpha-blocker, patients should be stable on alpha-blocker therapy prior to initiating sildenafil tablets treatment and sildenafil tablets should be initiated at the lowest dose [see Dosage and Administration (2.3), Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 7.3 Amlodipine When sildenafil tablets 100 mg was co-administered with amlodipine (5 mg or 10 mg) to hypertensive patients, the mean additional reduction on supine blood pressure was 8 mmHg systolic and 7 mmHg diastolic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. It is therefore recommended not to exceed a maximum single dose of 25 mg of sildenafil tablets in a 48-hour period [see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.6), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. A starting dose of 25 mg of sildenafil tablets should be considered in patients taking erythromycin or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (such as saquinavir, ketoconazole, itraconazole) [see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.5 Alcohol In a drug-drug interaction study sildenafil 50 mg given with alcohol 0.5 g/kg in which mean maximum blood alcohol levels of 0.08% was achieved, sildenafil did not potentiate the hypotensive effect of alcohol in healthy volunteers [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 7.1 Nitrates Administration of sildenafil tablets with nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form is contraindicated.

=== HYDROGEN PEROXIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose First aid antiseptic/Oral debriding agent Purpose Topical Antiseptic Purpose First aid antiseptic Oral debriding agent/Oral antiseptic Oral pain reliever Purpose Antiseptic Purpose First aid antiseptic Oral debriding agent
Indications: Uses first aid to help prevent the risk of infection in minor cuts, scrapes and burns aids in the removal of phlegm, mucous, or other secretions associated with occasional sore mouth Uses First aid to help prevent skin infection in minor cuts and scrapes Uses first aid to help prevent the risk of infection in: minor cuts scrapes burns first aid to help reduce bacteria in minor oral wounds for temporary pain relief and use in cleansing minor wounds or minor gum inflammation resulting from: minor dental procedures accidental injury orthodontic appliances canker sores dentures other irritations of the mouth and gums Aids in the removal of: phlegm mucus other secretions associated with occasional sore mouth Uses first aid to help prevent the risk of infection in minor cuts, scrapes and burns aids in the removal of phlegm, mucus, or other secretions associated with occasional sore mouth Use Topical Antiseptic Use first aid to help decrease the risk of skin infection in minor cuts, scrapes, and burns Use topical anti-infective Uses first aid to help prevent the risk of infection in minor cuts, scrapes and burns aids in removal of phlegm, mucous, or other secretions associated with occasional sore mouth
Dosage: Directions First aid antiseptic: clean the affected area apply a small amount of product on the area 1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage if bandaged, let dry first Oral debriding agent (oral rinse): adults and children 2 years of age and over: mix with an equal amount of water swish around in the mouth over the affected area for at least 1 minute and then spit out use up to 4 times daily after meals and at bedtime or as directed by a dentist or doctor children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product children under 2 years of age: consult a dentist or doctor Directions: Adults and children 12 years of age and over: clean the affected area spray a small amount of this product on the area 1 to3 times daily when dry, may be covered with a sterile bandage Childred under 12 year of age: ask a doctor Directions clean the affected area apply product on the affected area of the body 1 to 3 times a day may be covered with a sterile bandage if bandaged, let dry first Directions remove imprinted safety seal from bottle cap to remove child-resistant cap, squeeze smooth sides of cap while turning. Reclose tightly. Ready to use, no mixing needed. Adults and children 2 years of age and older Swish one-half capful (2 tesapoons=10mL) around the mouth over the affected area for at least 1 minute and then spit out. Use up to 4 times daily after meals and at bedtime or as directed by a dentist or healthcare provider Children under 12 years of age Should be supervised in the use of this product Children under 2 years of age Consult a dentist or healthcare provider Directions For use as a first aid antiseptic : clean affected area if bandaged, let dry first apply small amount of product on affected area 1-3 times a day may be covered with a sterile bandage For use as an oral debriding agent (oral rinse): adults and children 2 years of age and over : mix with an equal amount of water swish around in the mouth over affected area for at least 1 minute and then spit out. Do not swallow. use up to 4 times daily after meals and at bedtime or as directed by a dentist or doctor children under 12 years should be supervised in the use of this product children under 2 years of age : consult a dentist or doctor Directions Apply locally as needed Directions clean the affected area apply a small amount of this product on the area 1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage if bandaged, let dry first Directions First Aid Antiseptic clean the affected area apply a small amount of product on the area 1 to 3 times a day may be covered with a sterile bandage if bandaged, let dry first Oral Debriding Agent (oral rinse): Adults and children 2 years of age & over: mix with an equal amount of water swish around in the mouth over the affected area for at least 1 minute and then spit out use up to 4 times daily after meals and at bedtime or as directed by a dentist or doctor children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product children under 2 years of age: consult a dentist or doctor Directions First aid antiseptic: clean the affected area apply a small amount of product on the affected area 1 to 3 times a day may be covered with a sterile bandage if bandaged, let dry first Oral debriding agent (oral rinse): adults and children 2 years of age and over: mix with an equal amount of water swish around in the mouth over the affected area for at least 1 minute and then spit out use up to 4 times daily after meals and at bedtime or as directed by a dentist or doctor children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product children under 2 years of age: consult a dentist or doctor
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Warnings For external use only. Do not use in or near the eyes over large portions of the body on animal bites on deep or puncture wounds on raw surfaces on blistered areas on serious burns for more than 7 days unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or lasts more than 7 days symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medicla help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. 1-800-222-1222 Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns When using this product do not get in eyes do not apply over large areas do not use longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if condition persists or gets worse. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. When using this product do not swallow do not exceed recommended dosage Do not use this product for more than 7 days unless directed by a dentist or healthcare provider Stop use and see your physician promptly if swallowing, rash or fever develops; irritation, pain or redness persists or worsens; sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days Keep out of reach of children. If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Do not use in the eyes or apply over large areas of the body longer than one week Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds, animal bites or serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if swelling, rash, or fever develops the condition persists or gets worse sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days irritation, pain or redness persists or worsens Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor before use if injuries are • deep or puncture wounds • serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • infection occurs • redness, irritation, swelling or pain persists or increases Keep out of reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, seek professional assistance or consult a poison control center immediately. Warnings For external use only Do not use in the eyes or apply over large areas of the body longer than 1 week Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds, animal bites, or serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if the condition persists or gets worse irritation, pain, or redness persists or worsens swelling, rash, or fever develops Keep out of reach of children. Warnings Ask a doctor before use if injuries are Ask a doctor before use if injuries are deep or puncture wounds serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if infection occurs redness, irritation, swelling or pain persists or increases Keep out of reach of children. Warnings For external use only Do not use in the eyes or apply over large areas of the body longer than 1 week Ask a doctor before use if you have deep puncture wounds, animal bites or serious burns. Stop use and ask a doctor if the condition persists or gets worse sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days irritation, pain, or redness persists or worsens swelling, rash, or fever develops Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222).

=== ZOLPIDEM TARTRATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Zolpidem Tartrate Tablets is indicated for the short-term treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep initiation. Zolpidem Tartrate Tablets has been shown to decrease sleep latency for up to 35 days in controlled clinical studies [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. The clinical trials performed in support of efficacy were 4–5 weeks in duration with the final formal assessments of sleep latency performed at the end of treatment. Zolpidem Tartrate Tablets, a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) A receptor positive modulator, is indicated for the short-term treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep initiation. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablets are indicated for the short-term treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep onset and/or sleep maintenance (as measured by wake time after sleep onset).) The clinical trials performed in support of efficacy were up to 3 weeks (using polysomnography measurement up to 2 weeks in both adult and elderly patients) and 24 weeks (using patient-reported assessment in adult patients only) in duration [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14 )]. Zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablet, a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) A receptor positive modulator, is indicated for the short-term treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep onset and/or sleep maintenance. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Zolpidem tartrate tablets are indicated for the short-term treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep initiation. Zolpidem tartrate tablets have been shown to decrease sleep latency for up to 35 days in controlled clinical studies [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . The clinical trials performed in support of efficacy were 4 to 5 weeks in duration with the final formal assessments of sleep latency performed at the end of treatment. (1) Zolpidem tartrate tablets have been shown to decrease sleep latency for up to 35 days in controlled clinical studies [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. Zolpidem tartrate tablets are, a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) A receptor positive modulator, is indicated for the short-term treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep initiation. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablets, USP are indicated for the short-term treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep onset and/or sleep maintenance (as measured by wake time after sleep onset). The clinical trials performed in support of efficacy were up to 3 weeks (using polysomnography measurement up to 2 weeks in both adult and elderly patients) and 24 weeks (using patient-reported assessment in adult patients only) in duration [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . Zolpidem tartrate, a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) A receptor positive modulator, is indicated for the short-term treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep onset and/or sleep maintenance. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Zolpidem tartrate is indicated for the short-term treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep initiation. Zolpidem tartrate has been shown to decrease sleep latency for up to 35 days in controlled clinical studies [see Clinical Studies (14) ]. The clinical trials performed in support of efficacy were 4-5 weeks in duration with the final formal assessments of sleep latency performed at the end of treatment. Zolpidem tartrate, a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) A receptor positive modulator, is indicated for the short-term treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep initiation. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Zolpidem tartrate tablets, USP a gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA) A receptor positive modulator, is indicated for the short-term treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep initiation. Zolpidem tartrate tablets, USP are indicated for the short-term treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep initiation. Zolpidem tartrate tablets, USP have been shown to decrease sleep latency for up to 35 days in controlled clinical studies [ see Clinical Studies (14) ] .
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest dose effective for the patient and must not exceed a total of 10 mg daily ( 2.1 ) Treatment should be as short as possible ( 2.1 ) Recommended initial dose is a single dose of 5 mg for women and a single dose of 5 or 10 mg for men, immediately before bedtime with at least 7-8 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening ( 2.1 ) Geriatric patients and patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment: Recommended dose is 5 mg for men and women ( 2.2 ) Lower doses of CNS depressants may be necessary when taken concomitantly with Zolpidem Tartrate Tablets ( 2.3 ) The effect of Zolpidem Tartrate Tablets may be slowed if taken with or immediately after a meal ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Dosage in Adults Use the lowest effective dose for the patient. The recommended initial dose is 5 mg for women and either 5 or 10 mg for men, taken only once per night immediately before bedtime with at least 7-8 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening. If the 5 mg dose is not effective, the dose can be increased to 10 mg. In some patients, the higher morning blood levels following use of the 10 mg dose increase the risk of next-day impairment of driving and other activities that require full alertness [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . The total dose of Zolpidem Tartrate Tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily immediately before bedtime. Zolpidem Tartrate Tablets should be taken as a single dose and should not be readministered during the same night. The recommended initial doses for women and men are different because Zolpidem clearance is lower in women. Long-term use of Zolpidem Tartrate Tablets is not recommended. Treatment should be as short as possible. Extended treatment should not take place without re-evaluation of the patient's status because the risk of abuse and dependence increase with the duration of treatment [see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )] 2.2 Special Populations Elderly or debilitated patients may be especially sensitive to the effects of Zolpidem tartrate. The recommended dose of Zolpidem Tartrate Tablets in these patients is 5 mg once daily immediately before bedtime [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 )]. Patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment do not clear the drug as rapidly as normal subjects. The recommended dose of Zolpidem Tartrate Tablets in these patients is 5 mg once daily immediately before bedtime. Avoid Zolpidem Tartrate Tablets use in patients with severe hepatic impairment as it may contribute to encephalopathy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2.3 Use with CNS Depressants Dosage adjustment may be necessary when Zolpidem Tartrate Tablets is combined with other CNS-depressant drugs because of the potentially additive effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.7 )]. 2.4 Administration The effect of Zolpidem Tartrate Tablets may be slowed by ingestion with or immediately after a meal. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest dose effective for the patient and must not exceed a total of 12.5 mg daily ( 2.1 ) Treatment should be as short as possible ( 2.1 ) Recommended initial dose is a single dose of 6.25 mg for women, and a single dose of 6.25 or 12.5 mg for men, immediately before bedtime with at least 7 to 8 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening ( 2.1 ) Geriatric patients and patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment: Recommended dose is 6.25 mg for men and women ( 2.2 ) Lower doses of CNS depressants may be necessary when taken concomitantly with zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablets ( 2.3 ) Tablets to be swallowed whole, not to be crushed, divided or chewed ( 2.4 ) The effect of zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablets may be slowed if taken with or immediately after a meal ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Dosage in Adults Use the lowest effective dose for the patient. The recommended initial dose is 6.25 mg for women and either 6.25 or 12.5 mg for men, taken only once per night immediately before bedtime with at least 7 to 8 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening. If the 6.25 mg dose is not effective, the dose can be increased to 12.5 mg. In some patients, the higher morning blood levels following use of the 12.5 mg dose increase the risk of next-day impairment of driving and other activities that require full alertness [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.2 )] . The total dose of zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablets should not exceed 12.5 mg once daily immediately before bedtime. Zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablets should be taken as a single dose and should not be readministered during the same night. Treatment with zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablet should be as short as possible. Extended treatment should not take place without re-evaluation of the patient's status, since the risk of abuse and dependence increases with duration of treatment [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ( 9.3 )] . 2.2 Special Populations Elderly or debilitated patients may be especially sensitive to the effects of zolpidem tartrate. The recommended dose of zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablet in these patients is 6.25 mg once daily immediately before bedtime [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.2 ), USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.5 )]. The recommended dose of zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablets in these patients is 6.25 mg once daily immediately before bedtime. Avoid zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablets use in patients with severe hepatic impairment as it may contribute to encephalopathy [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.8 ), USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.7 ), CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. 2.3 Use with CNS Depressants Dosage adjustment may be necessary when zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablets are combined with other CNS-depressant drugs because of the potentially additive effects [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.2 )( 5.7 )]. 2.4 Administration Zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablets should be swallowed whole, and not be divided, crushed, or chewed. The effect of zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablets may be slowed by ingestion with or immediately after a meal. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest dose effective for the patient and must not exceed a total of 10 mg daily (2.1) Treatment should be as short as possible ( 2.1 ) Recommended initial dose is a single dose of 5 mg for women and a single dose of 5 or 10 mg for men, immediately before bedtime with at least 7 to 8 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening (2.1) Geriatric patients and patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment: Recommended dose is 5 mg for men and women (2.2) Lower doses of CNS depressants may be necessary when taken concomitantly with zolpidem tartrate tablets (2.3) The effect of zolpidem tartrate tablets may be slowed if taken with or immediately after a meal (2.4) 2.1 Dosage in Adults Use the lowest effective dose for the patient. The recommended initial dose is 5 mg for women and either 5 or 10 mg for men, taken only once per night immediately before bedtime with at least 7 to 8 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening. In some patients, the higher morning blood levels following use of the 10 mg dose increase the risk of next-day impairment of driving and other activities that require full alertness [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Extended treatment should not take place without re-evaluation of the patient's status because the risk of abuse and dependence increases withtheduration of treatment [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3) ] . The recommended dose of zolpidem tartrate in these patients is 5 mg once daily immediately before bedtime [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ]. The recommended dose of zolpidem tartrate in these patients is 5 mg once daily immediately before bedtime. Avoid zolpidem tartrate use in patients with severe hepatic impairment as it may contribute to encephalopathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) , Use in Specific Populations (8.7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.3 Use with CNS Depressants Dosage adjustment may be necessary when zolpidem tartrate tablets are combined with other CNS-depressant drugs because of the potentially additive effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.7) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Use the lowest dose effective for the patient and must not exceed a total of 10 mg daily ( 2.1 ) • Treatment should be as short as possible ( 2.1 ) • Recommended initial dose is a single dose of 5 mg for women and a single dose of 5 or 10 mg for men, immediately before bedtime with at least 7 to 8 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening ( 2.1 ) • Geriatric patients and patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment: Recommended dose is 5 mg for men and women ( 2.2 ) • Lower doses of CNS depressants may be necessary when taken concomitantly with zolpidem tartrate tablets ( 2.3 ) • The effect of zolpidem tartrate tablets may be slowed if taken with or immediately after a meal ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Dosage in Adults Use the lowest effective dose for the patient. In some patients, the higher morning blood levels following use of the 10 mg dose increase the risk of next-day impairment of driving and other activities that require full alertness [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Extended treatment should not take place without re-evaluation of the patient's status because the risk of abuse and dependence increases with the duration of treatment [see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )] . 2.3 Use with CNS Depressants Dosage adjustment may be necessary when zolpidem tartrate tablets are combined with other CNS-depressant drugs because of the potentially additive effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.7 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest dose effective for the patient and must not exceed a total of 12.5 mg daily ( 2.1 ) Treatment should be as short as possible (2.1) Recommended initial dose is a single dose of 6.25 mg for women and a single dose of 6.25 mg or 12.5 mg for men, immediately before bedtime with at least 7 to 8 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening ( 2.1 ) Geriatric patients and patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment: Recommended dose is 6.25 mg for men and women ( 2.2 ) Lower doses of CNS depressants may be necessary when taken concomitantly with zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablets ( 2.3 ) Tablets to be swallowed whole, not to be crushed, divided or chewed ( 2.4 ) The effect of zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablets may be slowed if taken with or immediately after a meal ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Dosage in Adults Use the lowest effective dose for the patient. The recommended initial dose is 6.25 mg for women and either 6.25 mg or 12.5 mg for men, taken only once per night immediately before bedtime with at least 7 to 8 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening. In some patients, the higher morning blood levels following use of the 12.5 mg dose increase the risk of next-day impairment of driving and other activities that require full alertness [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5. 2)] . Treatment with zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablets should be as short as possible. Extended treatment should not take place without re-evaluation of the patient’s status, since the risk of abuse and dependence increases with duration of treatment [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3)]. The recommended dose of zolpidem in these patients is 6.25 mg once daily immediately before bedtime [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5. 2), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 )]. The recommended dose of zolpidem in these patients is 6.25 mg once daily immediately before bedtime. Avoid zolpidem use in patients with severe hepatic impairment as it may contribute to encephalopathy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5. 8), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.3 Use with CNS Depressants Dosage adjustment may be necessary when zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablets are combined with other CNS-depressant drugs because of the potentially additive effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5. 2, 5.7)] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest dose effective for the patient and must not exceed a total of 10 mg daily ( 2.1 ) Treatment should be as short as possible ( 2.1 ) Recommended initial dose is a single dose of 5 mg for women and a single dose of 5 or 10 mg for men, immediately before bedtime with at least 7-8 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening ( 2.1 ) Geriatric patients and patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment: Recommended dose is 5 mg for men and women ( 2.2 ) Lower doses of CNS depressants may be necessary when taken concomitantly with zolpidem tartrate tablets ( 2.3 ) The effect of zolpidem tartrate may be slowed if taken with or immediately after a meal ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Dosage in Adults Use the lowest effective dose for the patient. Extended treatment should not take place without re-evaluation of the patient's status because the risk of abuse and dependence increases with the duration of treatment [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3) ] . Avoid zolpidem tartrate tablets use in patients with severe hepatic impairment as it may contribute to encephalopathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) , Use in Specific Populations (8.7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.3 Use with CNS Depressants Dosage adjustment may be necessary when zolpidem tartrate is combined with other CNS-depressant drugs because of the potentially additive effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.7 )]. 2.4 Administration The effect of zolpidem tartrate may be slowed by ingestion with or immediately after a meal. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest dose effective for the patient and must not exceed a total of 10 mg daily ( 2.1 ) Treatment should be as short as possible ( 2.1 ) Recommended initial dose is a single dose of 5 mg for women and a single dose of 5 or 10 mg for men, immediately before bedtime with at least 7 to 8 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening ( 2.1 ) Geriatric patients and patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment: Recommended dose is 5 mg for men and women ( 2.2 ) Lower doses of CNS depressants may be necessary when taken concomitantly with zolpidem tartrate tablets ( 2.3 ) The effect of zolpidem tartrate tablets may be slowed if taken with or immediately after a meal ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Dosage in Adults Use the lowest effective dose for the patient. Long-term use of zolpidem is not recommended. The recommended dose of zolpidem tartrate in these patients is 5 mg once daily immediately before bedtime [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 )]. 2.3 Use with CNS Depressants Dosage adjustment may be necessary when zolpidem tartrate tablets are combined with other CNS-depressant drugs because of the potentially additive effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.7 )] .
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Zolpidem Tartrate Tablets is contraindicated in patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking Zolpidem Tartrate Tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] with known hypersensitivity to zolpidem. Observed reactions include anaphylaxis and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] Patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking Zolpidem Tartrate Tablets ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to Zolpidem ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablets ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to zolpidem ( 4 ) Zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablets [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )]. with known hypersensitivity to zolpidem. Observed reactions include anaphylaxis and angioedema [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.4 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Zolpidem tartrate tablets are contraindicated in patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking zolpidem tartrate tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Observed reactions include anaphylaxis and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking zolpidem tartrate tablets ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to zolpidem ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Zolpidem tartrate is contraindicated in patients • who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking zolpidem tartrate tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. • with known hypersensitivity to zolpidem. • Patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking zolpidem tartrate tablets ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to zolpidem ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Observed reactions include anaphylaxis and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. Patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablets ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to zolpidem ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Zolpidem tartrate is contraindicated in patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking zolpidem tartrate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Observed reactions include anaphylaxis and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking Zolpidem ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to zolpidem ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Zolpidem tartrate is contraindicated in patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking zolpidem tartrate tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking zolpidem tartrate tablets ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to zolpidem ( 4 ) Zolpidem tartrate tablets are contraindicated in patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking zolpidem tartrate tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Observed reactions include anaphylaxis and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] .
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CNS depressants, including alcohol: Possible adverse additive CNS- depressant effects ( 5.1 , 7.1 ) Opioids: Concomitant use may increase risk of respiratory depression ( 5.7 , 7.1 ) Imipramine: Decreased alertness observed ( 7.1 ) Chlorpromazine: Impaired alertness and psychomotor performance observed ( 7.1 ) CYP3A4 inducers (rifampin or St. John's wort): Combination use may decrease effect ( 7.2 ) Ketoconazole: Combination use may increase effect ( 7.2 ) 7.1 CNS-Active Drugs CNS Depressants Coadministration of Zolpidem with other CNS depressants increases the risk of CNS depression. Concomitant use of Zolpidem with these drugs may increase drowsiness and psychomotor impairment, including impaired driving ability [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 )]. Zolpidem Tartrate was evaluated in healthy volunteers in single-dose interaction studies for several CNS drugs. Alcohol An additive adverse effect on psychomotor performance between alcohol and oral Zolpidem was demonstrated [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 )] Opioids The concomitant use of Zolpidem Tartrate Tablets with opioids may increase the risk of respiratory depression. Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of Zolpidem Tartrate Tablets and opioids [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] Imipramine, Chlorpromazine Imipramine in combination with Zolpidem produced no pharmacokinetic interaction other than a 20% decrease in peak levels of imipramine, but there was an additive effect of decreased alertness. Similarly, chlorpromazine in combination with Zolpidem produced no pharmacokinetic interaction, but there was an additive effect of decreased alertness and psychomotor performance [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Sertraline Concomitant administration of Zolpidem and sertraline increases exposure to Zolpidem [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Fluoxetine After multiple doses of Zolpidem Tartrate and fluoxetine an increase in the Zolpidem half-life (17%) was observed. There was no evidence of an additive effect in psychomotor performance [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Haloperidol A study involving haloperidol and Zolpidem revealed no effect of haloperidol on the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of Zolpidem. The lack of a drug interaction following single-dose administration does not predict the absence of an effect following chronic administration [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.2 Drugs that Affect Drug Metabolism via Cytochrome P450 Some compounds known to induce or inhibit CYP3A may affect exposure to Zolpidem. The effect of drugs that induce or inhibit other P450 enzymes on the exposure to Zolpidem is not known. CYP3A4 Inducers Rifampin Rifampin, a CYP3A4 inducer, significantly reduced the exposure to and the pharmacodynamic effects of Zolpidem. Use of Rifampin in combination with Zolpidem may decrease the efficacy of Zolpidem and is not recommended [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. St. John's wort Use of St. John's wort, a CYP3A4 inducer, in combination with Zolpidem may decrease blood levels of Zolpidem and is not recommended. CYP3A4 Inhibitors Ketoconazole Ketoconazole, a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, increased the exposure to and pharmacodynamic effects of Zolpidem. Consideration should be given to using a lower dose of Zolpidem when a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor and Zolpidem are given together [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CNS depressants, including alcohol: Possible adverse additive CNS-depressant effects ( 5.2 , 7.1 ) Opioids: Concomitant use may increase risk of respiratory depression ( 5.7 , 7.1 ) Imipramine: Decreased alertness observed ( 7.1 ) Chlorpromazine: Impaired alertness and psychomotor performance observed ( 7.1 ) CYP3A4 inducers (rifampin or St. Alcohol An additive adverse effect on psychomotor performance between alcohol and oral zolpidem was demonstrated [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 , 5.2 )]. Opioids The concomitant use of zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablets with opioids may increase the risk of respiratory depression. Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of zolpidem tartrate extended-release tablets and opioids [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2.3 ), WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.7 )] . Imipramine, Chlorpromazine Imipramine in combination with zolpidem produced no pharmacokinetic interaction other than a 20% decrease in peak levels of imipramine, but there was an additive effect of decreased alertness. Similarly, chlorpromazine in combination with zolpidem produced no pharmacokinetic interaction, but there was an additive effect of decreased alertness and psychomotor performance [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )] . Sertraline Concomitant administration of zolpidem and sertraline increases exposure to zolpidem [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )] . There was no evidence of an additive effect in psychomotor performance [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )] . The lack of a drug interaction following single-dose administration does not predict the absence of an effect following chronic administration [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )] . CYP3A4 Inducers Rifampin: Rifampin, a CYP3A4 inducer, significantly reduced the exposure to and the pharmacodynamic effects of zolpidem. John's wort: Use of St. CYP3A4 Inhibitors Ketoconazole: Ketoconazole, a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, increased the exposure to and pharmacodynamic effects of zolpidem. Consideration should be given to using a lower dose of zolpidem when a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor and zolpidem are given together [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CNS depressants, including alcohol: Possible adverse additive CNS-depressant effects ( 5.2 , 7.1) Opioids: Concomitant use may increase risk of respiratory depression ( 5.7 , 7.1 ) Imipramine: Decreased alertness observed (7.1) Chlorpromazine: Impaired alertness and psychomotor performance observed (7.1) CYP3A4 inducers (rifampin or St. John’s wort): Combination use may decrease effect (7.2) Ketoconazole: Combination use may increase effect (7.2) 7.1 CNS-Active Drugs CNS Depressants Coadministration of zolpidem with other CNS depressants increases the risk of CNS depression. Concomitant use of zolpidem with these drugs may increase drowsiness and psychomotor impairment, including impaired driving ability [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.2) ] . Alcohol An additive adverse effect on psychomotor performance between alcohol and oral zolpidem was demonstrated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.2) ] . Opioids The concomitant use of zolpidem tartrate with opioids may increase the risk of respiratory depression. Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of zolpidem tartrate and opioids [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) , Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . Similarly, chlorpromazine in combination with zolpidem produced no pharmacokinetic interaction, but there was an additive effect of decreased alertness and psychomotor performance [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Sertraline Concomitant administration of zolpidem and sertraline increases exposure to zolpidem [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . There was no evidence of an additive effect in psychomotor performance [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The lack of a drug interaction following single-dose administration does not predict the absence of an effect following chronic administration [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Use of Rifampin in combination with zolpidem may decrease the efficacy of zolpidem and is not recommended [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . John’s wort Use of St. John’s wort, a CYP3A4 inducer, in combination with zolpidem may decrease blood levels of zolpidem and is not recommended. Consideration should be given to using a lower dose of zolpidem when a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor and zolpidem are given together [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • CNS depressants, including alcohol: Possible adverse additive CNS-depressant effects ( 5.2 , 7.1 ) • Opioids: Concomitant use may increase risk of respiratory depression ( 5.7 , 7.1 ) • Imipramine: Decreased alertness observed ( 7.1 ) • Chlorpromazine: Impaired alertness and psychomotor performance observed ( 7.1 ) • CYP3A4 inducers (rifampin or St.John’s wort): Combination use may decrease effect ( 7.2 ) • Ketoconazole: Combination use may increase effect ( 7.2 ) 7.1 CNS-Active Drugs CNS Depressants Coadministration of zolpidem with other CNS depressants increases the risk of CNS depression. Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of zolpidem tartrate and opioids [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . Sertraline Concomitant administration of zolpidem and sertraline increases exposure to zolpidem [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CNS depressants, including alcohol: Possible adverse additive CNS-depressant effects ( 5. 2, 7.1 ) Opioids: Concomitant use may increase risk of respiratory depression (5.7, 7.1) Imipramine: Decreased alertness observed ( 7.1 ) Chlorpromazine: Impaired alertness and psychomotor performance observed ( 7.1 ) CYP3A4 inducers (rifampin or St. John’s wort): Combination use may decrease effect ( 7.2 ) Ketoconazole: Combination use may increase effect ( 7.2 ) 7.1 CNS-Active Drugs CNS Depressants Coadministration of zolpidem with other CNS depressants increases the risk of CNS depression. Concomitant use of zolpidem with these drugs may increase drowsiness and psychomotor impairment, including impaired driving ability [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2)]. Alcohol An additive adverse effect on psychomotor performance between alcohol and oral zolpidem was demonstrated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2)]. Opioids The concomitant use of zolpidem with opioids may increase the risk of respiratory depression. Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of zolpidem and opioids [see Dosage and Administration (2.3), Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Similarly, chlorpromazine in combination with zolpidem produced no pharmacokinetic interaction, but there was an additive effect of decreased alertness and psychomotor performance [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Sertraline Concomitant administration of zolpidem and sertraline increases exposure to zolpidem [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . There was no evidence of an additive effect in psychomotor performance [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . The lack of a drug interaction following single-dose administration does not predict the absence of an effect following chronic administration [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Use of Rifampinin combination with zolpidem may decrease the efficacy of zolpidem and is not recommended [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Consideration should be given to using a lower dose of zolpidem when a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor and zolpidem are given together [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Concomitant use of zolpidem with these drugs may increase drowsiness and psychomotor impairment, including impaired driving ability [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 )] . Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of zolpidem tartrate and opioids [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) , Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Similarly, chlorpromazine in combination with zolpidem produced no pharmacokinetic interaction, but there was an additive effect of decreased alertness and psychomotor performance [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. The lack of a drug interaction following single-dose administration does not predict the absence of an effect following chronic administration [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Use of Rifampin in combination with zolpidem may decrease the efficacy of zolpidem and is not recommended [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Consideration should be given to using a lower dose of zolpidem when a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor and zolpidem are given together [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CNS depressants, including alcohol: Possible adverse additive CNS-depressant effects ( 5.2 , 7.1 ) Opioids: Concomitant use may increase risk of respiratory depression ( 5.7 , 7.1 ) Imipramine: Decreased alertness observed ( 7.1 ) Chlorpromazine: Impaired alertness and psychomotor performance observed ( 7.1 ) CYP3A4 inducers (rifampin or St.John’s wort): Combination use may decrease effect ( 7.2 ) Ketoconazole: Combination use may increase effect ( 7.2 ) 7.1 CNS-Active Drugs CNS Depressants Coadministration of zolpidem with other CNS depressants increases the risk of CNS depression. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CNS depressants, including alcohol: Possible adverse additive CNS- depressant effects ( 5.2 , 7.1 ) Opioids: Concomitant use may increase risk of respiratory depression ( 5.7 , 7.1 ) Imipramine: Decreased alertness observed ( 7.1 ) Chlorpromazine: Impaired alertness and psychomotor performance observed ( 7.1 ) CYP3A4 inducers (rifampin or St. Alcohol An additive adverse effect on psychomotor performance between alcohol and oral zolpidem was demonstrated [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1, 5.2 )] . Opioids The concomitant use of zolpidem tartrate tablets with opioids may increase the risk of respiratory depression. Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of zolpidem tartrate tablets and opioids [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )]. Use of Rifampin in combination with zolpidem may decrease the efficacy of zolpidem and is not recommended [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] .

=== EUCALYPTOL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antigingivitis, Antiplaque Purposes Antiplaque/antigingivitis
Indications: Use helps control plaque that leads to gingivitis Uses helps prevent and reduce: • plaque • gingivitis
Dosage: Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL (2/3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls) between teeth twice a day for 30 seconds then spit out children under 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL (2/3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls) between teeth twice a day for 30 seconds then spit out; do not swallow children under 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Directions adults and children under 12 years if age and older - vigorously swish 20 ml (2/3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls) between teeth twice a day for 30 seconds then spit out; do not swallow children under 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor this rinse is not intened to replace brushing or flossing Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL (2/3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls) between teeth twice a day for 30 seconds then spit out; do not swallow children 6 years to under 12 years of age - supervise use children under 6 years of age - do not use this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL (2/3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls) between teeth for 30 seconds then spit out; do not swallow children under 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Directions • rinse full strength for 30 seconds with 20 mL (2/3 fluid ounce or 4 teaspoonfuls) morning and night • do not swallow
Warnings: Warnings for this product Warnings Do not use in children under 12 years of age Ask a dentist if symptoms persist, new symptoms appear, or conditions worsen after regular use Keep out of reach of children. If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.

=== METHYL SALICYLATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Menthol - Topical analgesic Methyl salicylate - Topical analgesic Active Ingredients Purpose Methyl Salicylate 15% Topical Analgesic Menthol 5% Topical Analgesic Camphor 3% Topical Analgesic PURPOSE TOPICAL ANALGESIC Purpose Antigingivitis, Antiplaque Purpose Camphor - Topical analgesic Menthol - Topical analgesic Methyl salicylate - Topical analgesic Purpose External analgesic External analgesic External analgesic
Indications: Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to arthritis simple backache strains sprains Uses For temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with simple backache, arthritis, bruises, strains and sprains. USES FAST ACTING DEEP PENETRATING HOURS OF RELIEF FOR ARTHRITIS BACKACHE MUSCLE ACHE JOINT PAIN SPRAINS SPORTS INJURIES TENDON INFLAMMATION OVER-USE INJURIES Use helps control plaque that leads to gingivitis Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with: simple backache arthritis strains bruises sprains Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to: ■ simple backache ■ arthritis ■ strains ■ bruises ■ sprains
Dosage: Directions adults and children 12 years and over: apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions For adults and children over 12 years of age, rub well on the affected area. Repeat 3 to 4 times daily For children 12 years of age or younger, consult a doctor before use. DIRECTIONS APPLY GENEROUSLY. GENTLY MASSAGE INTO PAINFUL AREA UNTIL THOROUGHLY ABSORBED. REPEAT AS NECESSARY, UP TO FOUR TIMES DAILY. PRODUCT CAN BE USED WITH A WRAP. Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL (2/3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls) between teeth twice a day for 30 seconds then spit out children under 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL (2/3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls) between teeth twice a day for 30 seconds then spit out; do not swallow children under 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Directions ■ adults and children 3 years of age and older: apply several drops and rub Into the affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily ■ children under 3 years of age: consult your physician Directions adults and children under 12 years if age and older - vigorously swish 20 ml (2/3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls) between teeth twice a day for 30 seconds then spit out; do not swallow children under 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor this rinse is not intened to replace brushing or flossing Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL (2/3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls) between teeth twice a day for 30 seconds then spit out; do not swallow children 6 years to under 12 years of age - supervise use children under 6 years of age - do not use this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL (2/3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls) between teeth for 30 seconds then spit out; do not swallow children under 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing
Warnings: Warnings For external use only When using this product use only as directed do not get into eyes or on mucous membranes do not apply to wounds or to damaged skin do not bandage tightly do not use with a heating pad, other heat sources, or right after a shower/bath do not use in combination with other external analgesic products Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens excessive irritation, burning or discomfort of the skin develops symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Warnings For external use only. When using this product Use only as directed Avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes Do not apply to wounds, damaged or irritated skin Do not bandage or cover with wrap or use heating pad Do not use 1 hour prior to bathing or within 30 minutes after bathing. Stop use and ask a doctor if Condition worsens Severe skin irritation occurs Pain persists for more than 7 days, or redness is present Pain clears up and then recurs a few days later. If pregnant or breast-feeding, or if you have sensitive skin, ask a healthcare professional before use. Keep out of reach of children to avoid accidental poisoning. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. AVOID CONTACT WITH EYES, MUCOUS MEMBRANES AND BROKEN OR IRRITATED SKIN. IF CONDITION WORSENS, OR IF SYMPTOMS PERSIST FOR MORE THAN 7 DAYS, OR IF REDNESS IS PRESENT, DISCONTINUE USE AND CONSULT A PHYSICIAN. FOR TEMPORARY RELIEF. NOT FOR USE IN CHILDREN UNDER 12 YEARS OF AGE. Warnings for this product Warnings For external use only When using this product use only as directed do not get into eyes or on mucous membranes do not apply to wounds or damaged skin do not bandage tightly do not use with heating pad or apply external heat Stop use and ask a doctor if skin redness or excessive irritation of the skin occurs condition worsens symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Warnings For external use only

=== THYMOL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: This product is intended to help prevent bacterial vaginosis (BV) and yeast infections, and to moisturize. Purpose Antigingivitis, Antiplaque Purposes Antiplaque/antigingivitis
Indications: This product is intended to help prevent bacterial vaginosis (BV) and yeast infections, and to moisturize. Use helps control plaque that leads to gingivitis Uses helps prevent and reduce: • plaque • gingivitis
Dosage: Directions  Adults and children 12 years or over:  Wash hands before and after use.  Squeeze desired amount into applicator.  Insert applicator into vagina and inject cream.  Clean applicator after use and reuse.  Children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL (2/3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls) between teeth twice a day for 30 seconds then spit out children under 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL (2/3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls) between teeth twice a day for 30 seconds then spit out; do not swallow children under 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Directions adults and children under 12 years if age and older - vigorously swish 20 ml (2/3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls) between teeth twice a day for 30 seconds then spit out; do not swallow children under 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor this rinse is not intened to replace brushing or flossing Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL (2/3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls) between teeth twice a day for 30 seconds then spit out; do not swallow children 6 years to under 12 years of age - supervise use children under 6 years of age - do not use this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL (2/3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls) between teeth for 30 seconds then spit out; do not swallow children under 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing Directions • rinse full strength for 30 seconds with 20 mL (2/3 fluid ounce or 4 teaspoonfuls) morning and night • do not swallow
Warnings: For vaginal use only. FemiClear may damage condoms and diaphragms and cause them to fail. FemiClear does not prevent sexually transmitted infections (STIs). Practice safer sex by using a latex or polyurethane condom to reduce the risk of getting STIs. FemiClear does not eliminate the risk of infections. Warnings for this product Warnings Do not use in children under 12 years of age Ask a dentist if symptoms persist, new symptoms appear, or conditions worsen after regular use Keep out of reach of children. If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.

=== SERTRALINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Major Depressive Disorder – Sertraline hydrochloride is indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder in adults. The efficacy of Sertraline hydrochloride in the treatment of a major depressive episode was established in six to eight week controlled trials of adult outpatients whose diagnoses corresponded most closely to the DSM-III category of major depressive disorder (see Clinical Trials under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). A major depressive episode implies a prominent and relatively persistent depressed or dysphoric mood that usually interferes with daily functioning (nearly every day for at least 2 weeks); it should include at least 4 of the following 8 symptoms: change in appetite, change in sleep, psychomotor agitation or retardation, loss of interest in usual activities or decrease in sexual drive, increased fatigue, feelings of guilt or worthlessness, slowed thinking or impaired concentration, and a suicide attempt or suicidal ideation. The antidepressant action of sertraline hydrochloride in hospitalized depressed patients has not been adequately studied. The efficacy of sertraline hydrochloride in maintaining an antidepressant response for up to 44 weeks following 8 weeks of open-label acute treatment (52 weeks total) was demonstrated in a placebo-controlled trial. The usefulness of the drug in patients receiving sertraline hydrochloride for extended periods should be reevaluated periodically (see Clinical Trials under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder – Sertraline hydrochloride is indicated for the treatment of obsessions and compulsions in patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), as defined in the DSM-III-R; i.e., the obsessions or compulsions cause marked distress, are time-consuming, or significantly interfere with social or occupational functioning. The efficacy of Sertraline hydrochloride was established in 12-week trials with obsessive-compulsive outpatients having diagnoses of obsessive-compulsive disorder as defined according to DSM-III or DSM-III-R criteria (see Clinical Trials under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Obsessive-compulsive disorder is characterized by recurrent and persistent ideas, thoughts, impulses, or images (obsessions) that are ego-dystonic and/or repetitive, purposeful, and intentional behaviors (compulsions) that are recognized by the person as excessive or unreasonable. The efficacy of Sertraline hydrochloride in maintaining a response, in patients with OCD who responded during a 52-week treatment phase while taking Sertraline hydrochloride and were then observed for relapse during a period of up to 28 weeks, was demonstrated in a placebo-controlled trial (see Clinical Trials under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Nevertheless, the physician who elects to use Sertraline hydrochloride for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Panic Disorder – Sertraline hydrochloride is indicated for the treatment of panic disorder in adults, with or without agoraphobia, as defined in DSM-IV. Panic disorder is characterized by the occurrence of unexpected panic attacks and associated concern about having additional attacks, worry about the implications or consequences of the attacks, and/or a significant change in behavior related to the attacks. The efficacy of Sertraline hydrochloride was established in three 10-12 week trials in adult panic disorder patients whose diagnoses corresponded to the DSM-III-R category of panic disorder (see Clinical Trials under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Panic disorder (DSM-IV) is characterized by recurrent unexpected panic attacks, i.e., a discrete period of intense fear or discomfort in which four (or more) of the following symptoms develop abruptly and reach a peak within 10 minutes: (1) palpitations, pounding heart, or accelerated heart rate; (2) sweating; (3) trembling or shaking; (4) sensations of shortness of breath or smothering; (5) feeling of choking; (6) chest pain or discomfort; (7) nausea or abdominal distress; (8) feeling dizzy, unsteady, lightheaded, or faint; (9) derealization (feelings of unreality) or depersonalization (being detached from oneself); (10) fear of losing control; (11) fear of dying; (12) paresthesias (numbness or tingling sensations); (13) chills or hot flushes. The efficacy of Sertraline hydrochloride in maintaining a response, in adult patients with panic disorder who responded during a 52-week treatment phase while taking Sertraline hydrochloride and were then observed for relapse during a period of up to 28 weeks, was demonstrated in a placebo-controlled trial (see Clinical Trials under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) – Sertraline hydrochloride (sertraline hydrochloride) is indicated for the treatment of posttraumatic stress disorder in adults. The efficacy of Sertraline hydrochloride in the treatment of PTSD was established in two 12-week placebo-controlled trials of adult outpatients whose diagnosis met criteria for the DSM-III-R category of PTSD (see Clinical Trials under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). PTSD, as defined by DSM-III-R/IV, requires exposure to a traumatic event that involved actual or threatened death or serious injury, or threat to the physical integrity of self or others, and a response which involves intense fear, helplessness, or horror. Symptoms that occur as a result of exposure to the traumatic event include reexperiencing of the event in the form of intrusive thoughts, flashbacks or dreams, and intense psychological distress and physiological reactivity on exposure to cues to the event; avoidance of situations reminiscent of the traumatic event, inability to recall details of the event, and/or numbing of general responsiveness manifested as diminished interest in significant activities, estrangement from others, restricted range of affect, or sense of foreshortened future; and symptoms of autonomic arousal including hypervigilance, exaggerated startle response, sleep disturbance, impaired concentration, and irritability or outbursts of anger. A PTSD diagnosis requires that the symptoms are present for at least a month and that they cause clinically significant distress or impairment in social, occupational, or other important areas of functioning. The efficacy of Sertraline hydrochloride in maintaining a response in adult patients with PTSD for up to 28 weeks following 24 weeks of open-label treatment was demonstrated in a placebo-controlled trial. Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder (PMDD) – Sertraline hydrochloride is indicated for the treatment of premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) in adults. The efficacy of sertraline hydrochloride in the treatment of PMDD was established in 2 placebo-controlled trials of female adult outpatients treated for 3 menstrual cycles who met criteria for the DSM-IIIR/IV category of PMDD (see Clinical Trials under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). The essential features of PMDD include markedly depressed mood, anxiety or tension, affective lability, and persistent anger or irritability. Other features include decreased interest in activities, difficulty concentrating, lack of energy, change in appetite or sleep, and feeling out of control. Physical symptoms associated with PMDD include breast tenderness, headache, joint and muscle pain, bloating and weight gain. These symptoms occur regularly during the luteal phase and remit within a few days following onset of menses; the disturbance markedly interferes with work or school or with usual social activities and relationships with others. In making the diagnosis, care should be taken to rule out other cyclical mood disorders that may be exacerbated by treatment with an antidepressant. The effectiveness of Sertraline hydrochloride in long-term use, that is, for more than 3 menstrual cycles, has not been systematically evaluated in controlled trials. Therefore, the physician who elects to use Sertraline hydrochloride for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Social Anxiety Disorder – Sertraline hydrochloride is indicated for the treatment of social anxiety disorder, also known as social phobia in adults. The efficacy of Sertraline hydrochloride in the treatment of social anxiety disorder was established in two placebo-controlled trials of adult outpatients with a diagnosis of social anxiety disorder as defined by DSM-IV criteria (see Clinical Trials under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Social anxiety disorder, as defined by DSM-IV, is characterized by marked and persistent fear of social or performance situations involving exposure to unfamiliar people or possible scrutiny by others and by fears of acting in a humiliating or embarrassing way. Exposure to the feared social situation almost always provokes anxiety and feared social or performance situations are avoided or else are endured with intense anxiety or distress. In addition, patients recognize that the fear is excessive or unreasonable and the avoidance and anticipatory anxiety of the feared situation is associated with functional impairment or marked distress. The efficacy of Sertraline hydrochloride in maintaining a response in adult patients with social anxiety disorder for up to 24 weeks following 20 weeks of Sertraline hydrochloride treatment was demonstrated in a placebo-controlled trial. Physicians who prescribe Sertraline hydrochloride for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient (see Clinical Trials under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sertraline hydrochloride oral solution is indicated for the treatment of the following [See Clinical Studies (14) ] : Major depressive disorder (MDD) Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) Panic disorder (PD) Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) Social anxiety disorder (SAD) Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) Sertraline hydrochloride oral solution is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the treatment of ( 1 ): Major depressive disorder (MDD) Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) Panic disorder (PD) Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) Social anxiety disorder (SAD) Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sertraline hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of the following [See Clinical Studies (14)] : Major depressive disorder (MDD) Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) Panic disorder (PD) Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) Social anxiety disorder (SAD) Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) Sertraline hydrochloride tablets are selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the treatment of: Major depressive disorder (MDD) Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) Panic disorder (PD) Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) Social anxiety disorder (SAD) Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sertraline hydrochloride capsules is indicated for the treatment of the following [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] : Major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) in adults and pediatric patients 6 years and older Sertraline hydrochloride capsules is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the treatment of (1) : Major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) in adults and pediatric patients 6 years and older 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sertraline hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of the following [See Clinical Studies ( 14 )] : Major depressive disorder (MDD) Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) Panic disorder (PD) Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) Social anxiety disorder (SAD) Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) Sertraline hydrochloride tablet is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the treatment of ( 1 ): Major depressive disorder (MDD) Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) Panic disorder (PD) Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) Social anxiety disorder (SAD) Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sertraline hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of the following [See Clinical Studies (14) ] : Major depressive disorder (MDD) Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) Panic disorder (PD) Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) Social anxiety disorder (SAD) Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) Sertraline hydrochloride tablets are a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the treatment of ( 1 ): Major depressive disorder (MDD) Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) Panic disorder (PD) Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) Social anxiety disorder (SAD) Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sertraline hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of the following [See Clinical Studies (14) ] : • Major depressive disorder (MDD) • Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) • Panic disorder (PD) • Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) • Social anxiety disorder (SAD) • Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) Sertraline hydrochloride tablets are a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the treatment of ( 1 ): • Major depressive disorder (MDD) • Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) • Panic disorder (PD) • Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) • Social anxiety disorder (SAD) • Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sertraline hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of the following [See Clinical Studies (14) ]: Major depressive disorder (MDD) Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) Panic disorder (PD) Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) Social anxiety disorder (SAD) Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) Sertraline hydrochloride tablets are a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the treatment of ( 1 ): Major depressive disorder (MDD) Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) Panic disorder (PD) Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) Social anxiety disorder (SAD) Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD)
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Initial Treatment Dosage for Adults Major Depressive Disorder –Sertraline hydrochloride treatment should be administered at a dose of 50 mg once daily. While a relationship between dose and effect has not been established for major depressive disorder, OCD, panic disorder, PTSD or social anxiety disorder, patients were dosed in a range of 50-200 mg/day in the clinical trials demonstrating the effectiveness of Sertraline hydrochloride for the treatment of this indication. Consequently, a dose of 50 mg, administered once daily, is recommended as the initial therapeutic dose. Patients not responding to a 50 mg dose may benefit from dose increases up to a maximum of 200 mg/day. Given the 24 hour elimination half-life of sertraline hydrochloride, dose changes should not occur at intervals of less than 1 week. Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder – Sertraline hydrochloride treatment should be initiated with a dose of 50 mg/day, either daily throughout the menstrual cycle or limited to the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle, depending on physician assessment. While a relationship between dose and effect has not been established for PMDD, patients were dosed in the range of 50-150 mg/day with dose increases at the onset of each new menstrual cycle (see Clinical Trials under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Patients not responding to a 50 mg/day dose may benefit from dose increases (at 50 mg increments/ menstrual cycle) up to 150 mg/day when dosing daily throughout the menstrual cycle, or 100 mg/day when dosing during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle. If a 100 mg/day dose has been established with luteal phase dosing, a 50 mg/day titration step for three days should be utilized at the beginning of each luteal phase dosing period. Sertraline hydrochloride should be administered once daily, either in the morning or evening. Dosage for Pediatric Population (Children and Adolescents) Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder – Sertraline hydrochloride treatment should be initiated with a dose of 25 mg once daily in children (ages 6-12) and at a dose of 50 mg once daily in adolescents (ages 13-17). While a relationship between dose and effect has not been established for OCD, patients were dosed in a range of 25-200 mg/day in the clinical trials demonstrating the effectiveness of Sertraline hydrochloride for pediatric patients (6-17 years) with OCD. Patients not responding to an initial dose of 25 or 50 mg/day may benefit from dose increases up to a maximum of 200 mg/day. For children with OCD, their generally lower body weights compared to adults should be taken into consideration in advancing the dose, in order to avoid excess dosing. Maintenance/Continuation/Extended Treatment Major Depressive Disorder –It is generally agreed that acute episodes of major depressive disorder require several months or longer of sustained pharmacologic therapy beyond response to the acute episode. Systematic evaluation of sertraline hydrochloride has demonstrated that its antidepressant efficacy is maintained for periods of up to 44 weeks following 8 weeks of initial treatment at a dose of 50-200 mg/day (mean dose of 70 mg/day) (see Clinical Trials under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). It is not known whether the dose of sertraline hydrochloride needed for maintenance treatment is identical to the dose needed to achieve an initial response. Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment. Posttraumatic Stress Disorder –It is generally agreed that PTSD requires several months or longer of sustained pharmacological therapy beyond response to initial treatment. Systematic evaluation of Sertraline hydrochloride has demonstrated that its efficacy in PTSD is maintained for periods of up to 28 weeks following 24 weeks of treatment at a dose of 50-200 mg/day (see Clinical Trials under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Social Anxiety Disorder –Social anxiety disorder is a chronic condition that may require several months or longer of sustained pharmacological therapy beyond response to initial treatment. Systematic evaluation of Sertraline hydrochloride has demonstrated that its efficacy in social anxiety disorder is maintained for periods of up to 24 weeks following 20 weeks of treatment at a dose of 50-200 mg/day (see Clinical Trials under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Dosage adjustments should be made to maintain patients on the lowest effective dose and patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for long-term treatment. Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder and Panic Disorder –It is generally agreed that OCD and Panic Disorder require several months or longer of sustained pharmacological therapy beyond response to initial treatment. Systematic evaluation of continuing Sertraline hydrochloride for periods of up to 28 weeks in patients with OCD and Panic Disorder who have responded while taking Sertraline hydrochloride during initial treatment phases of 24 to 52 weeks of treatment at a dose range of 50-200 mg/day has demonstrated a benefit of such maintenance treatment (see Clinical Trials under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Nevertheless, patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment. Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder –The effectiveness of sertraline hydrochloride in long-term use, that is, for more than 3 menstrual cycles, has not been systematically evaluated in controlled trials. However, as women commonly report that symptoms worsen with age until relieved by the onset of menopause, it is reasonable to consider continuation of a responding patient. Dosage adjustments, which may include changes between dosage regimens (e.g., daily throughout the menstrual cycle versus during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle), may be needed to maintain the patient on the lowest effective dosage and patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for continued treatment. Switching a Patient To or From a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders: At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with Sertraline hydrochloride. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping Sertraline hydrochloride before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Use of Sertraline Hydrochloride With Other MAOIs Such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue: Do not start Sertraline hydrochloride in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). In some cases, a patient already receiving Sertraline hydrochloride therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, Sertraline hydrochloride should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. The patient should be monitored for symptoms of serotonin syndrome for 2 weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, whichever comes first. Therapy with Sertraline hydrochloride may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue (see WARNINGS ). The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with Sertraline hydrochloride is unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use (see WARNINGS ). Special Populations Dosage for Hepatically Impaired Patients –The use of sertraline in patients with liver disease should be approached with caution. The effects of sertraline in patients with moderate and severe hepatic impairment have not been studied. If sertraline is administered to patients with liver impairment, a lower or less frequent dose should be used (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and PRECAUTIONS ). Treatment of Pregnant Women During the Third Trimester –Neonates exposed to Sertraline hydrochloride and other SSRIs or SNRIs, late in the third trimester have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization, respiratory support, and tube feeding (see PRECAUTIONS ). When treating pregnant women with Sertraline hydrochloride during the third trimester, the physician should carefully consider the potential risks and benefits of treatment. Discontinuation of Treatment with Sertraline hydrochloride Symptoms associated with discontinuation of Sertraline hydrochloride and other SSRIs and SNRIs, have been reported (see PRECAUTIONS ). Patients should be monitored for these symptoms when discontinuing treatment. A gradual reduction in the dose rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible. If intolerable symptoms occur following a decrease in the dose or upon discontinuation of treatment, then resuming the previously prescribed dose may be considered. Subsequently, the physician may continue decreasing the dose but at a more gradual rate. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ­Indication Starting Dosage Maximum Dosage MDD (2.1) 50 mg per day 200 mg per day OCD (2.1) 25 mg per day (ages 6 to 12) 50 mg per day (ages ≥ 13) 200 mg per day PD, PTSD, SAD (2.1) 25 mg per day 200 mg per day PMDD (2.2) continuous dosing 50 mg per day 150 mg per day PMDD (2.2) intermittent dosing 50 mg per day during luteal phase only 100 mg per day during luteal phase only If inadequate response to starting dosage, titrate in 25 to 50 mg per day increments once weekly in MDD, OCD, PD, PTSD, and SAD ( 2.1 ) See Full Prescribing Information for titration in PMDD ( 2.2 ) Hepatic impairment: Mild: Recommended starting and maximum dosage is half recommended dosage ( 2.4 ) Moderate or severe: Not recommended ( 2.4 ) When discontinuing sertraline hydrochloride oral solution, reduce dose gradually (2.6 , 5.4 ) Oral solution: Must be diluted before administration ( 2.7 ) 2.1 Dosage in Patients with MDD, OCD, PD, PTSD, and SAD The recommended initial dosage and maximum sertraline hydrochloride oral solution dosage in patients with MDD, OCD, PD, PTSD, and SAD are displayed in Table 1 below. A dosage of 25 mg or 50 mg per day is the initial therapeutic dosage. For adults and pediatric patients, subsequent dosages may be increased in case of an inadequate response in 25 to 50 mg per day increments once a week, depending on tolerability, up to a maximum of 200 mg per day. Given the 24-hour elimination half-life of sertraline hydrochloride oral solution, the recommended interval between dose changes is one week. Table 1: Recommended Daily Dosage of Sertraline Hydrochloride Oral Solution in Patients with MDD, OCD, PD, PTSD, and SAD Indication Starting Dose Therapeutic Range Adults MDD 50 mg 50 to 200 mg OCD 50 mg PD, PTSD, SAD 25 mg Pediatric Patients OCD (ages 6 to 12 years old) 25 mg 50 to 200 mg OCD (ages 13 to 17 years old) 50 mg 2.2 Dosage in Patients with PMDD The recommended starting sertraline hydrochloride oral solution dosage in adult women with PMDD is 50 mg per day. Sertraline hydrochloride oral solution may be administered either continuously (every day throughout the menstrual cycle) or intermittently (only during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle, i.e., starting the daily dosage 14 days prior to the anticipated onset of menstruation and continuing through the onset of menses). Intermittent dosing would be repeated with each new cycle. When dosing continuously , patients not responding to a 50 mg dosage may benefit from dosage increases at 50 mg increments per menstrual cycle up to 150 mg per day. When dosing intermittently , patients not responding to a 50 mg dosage may benefit from increasing the dosage up to a maximum of 100 mg per day during the next menstrual cycle (and subsequent cycles) as follows: 50 mg per day during the first 3 days of dosing followed by 100 mg per day during the remaining days in the dosing cycle. 2.3 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Sertraline Hydrochloride Oral Solution Prior to initiating treatment with sertraline hydrochloride oral solution or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [See Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. 2.4 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Both the recommended starting dosage and therapeutic range in patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child Pugh scores 5 or 6) are half the recommended daily dosage [See Dosage and Administration (2.1 , 2.2) ]. The use of sertraline hydrochloride oral solution in patients with moderate (Child Pugh scores 7 to 9) or severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh scores 10 to 15) is not recommended [See Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.5 Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor Antidepressant At least 14 days must elapse between discontinuation of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) antidepressant and initiation of sertraline hydrochloride oral solution. In addition, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping sertraline hydrochloride oral solution before starting an MAOI antidepressant [See Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 2.6 Discontinuation of Treatment with Sertraline Hydrochloride Oral Solution Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of sertraline hydrochloride oral solution [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Gradually reduce the dosage rather than stopping sertraline hydrochloride oral solution abruptly whenever possible. 2.7 Preparation of Sertraline Hydrochloride Oral Solution Sertraline hydrochloride oral solution must be diluted before use. Use the supplied calibrated dispensing syringe to measure the amount of sertraline hydrochloride oral solution needed Note: The supplied calibrated dispensing syringe has 25 mg and 50 mg graduation marks only Mix with 4 ounces (1/2 cup) of water, ginger ale, lemon/lime soda, lemonade or orange juice ONLY. After mixing, a slight haze may appear, which is normal. Instruct patients or caregivers to immediately take the dose after mixing. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Starting Dosage Maximum Dosage MDD (2.1) 50 mg per day 200 mg per day OCD (2.1) 25 mg per day (ages 6-12) 50 mg per day (ages ≥13 ) 200 mg per day PD, PTSD, SAD (2.1) 25 mg per day 200 mg per day PMDD (2.2) continuous dosing 50 mg per day 150 mg per day PMDD (2.2) intermittent dosing 50 mg per day during luteal phase only 100 mg per day during luteal phase only If inadequate response to starting dosage, titrate in 25–50 mg per day increments once weekly in MDD, OCD, PD, PTSD, and SAD (2.1) See Full Prescribing Information for titration in PMDD (2.2) Hepatic impairment: Mild: Recommended starting and maximum dosage is half recommended dosage (2.4) Moderate or severe: Not recommended (2.4) When discontinuing sertraline hydrochloride, reduce dose gradually (2.6, 5.4) 2.1 Dosage in Patients with MDD, OCD, PD, PTSD, and SAD The recommended initial dosage and maximum sertraline hydrochloride dosage in patients with MDD, OCD, PD, PTSD, and SAD are displayed in Table 1 below. Given the 24-hour elimination half-life of sertraline hydrochloride, the recommended interval between dose changes is one week. Table 1 2.2 Dosage in Patients with PMDD The recommended starting sertraline hydrochloride dosage in adult women with PMDD is 50 mg per day. Sertraline hydrochloride may be administered either continuously (every day throughout the menstrual cycle) or intermittently (only during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle, i.e., starting the daily dosage 14 days prior to the anticipated onset of menstruation and continuing through the onset of menses). 2.3 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting sertraline hydrochloride Prior to initiating treatment with sertraline hydrochloride or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [See Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. 2.4 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Both the recommended starting dosage and therapeutic range in patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child Pugh scores 5 or 6) are half the recommended daily dosage [See Dosage and Administration (2.1, 2.2)] . The use of sertraline hydrochloride in patients with moderate (Child Pugh scores 7 to 9) or severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh scores 10–15) is not recommended [See Use in Specific Populations (8.6), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2.5 Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor Antidepressant At least 14 days must elapse between discontinuation of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) antidepressant and initiation of sertraline hydrochloride. In addition, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping sertraline hydrochloride before starting an MAOI antidepressant [See Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . 2.6 Discontinuation of Treatment with Sertraline Hydrochloride Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of sertraline hydrochloride [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Gradually reduce the dosage rather than stopping sertraline hydrochloride abruptly whenever possible. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Do not initiate treatment with sertraline hydrochloride capsules. Use another sertraline hydrochloride product for initial dosage, titration, and dosages below 150 mg once daily ( 2.1 ) Recommended dosage is 150 mg or 200 mg once daily ( 2.1 ) Maximum recommended dosage is 200 mg once daily ( 2.1 ) Swallow capsules whole. Do not open, crush, or chew ( 2.2 ) When discontinuing sertraline hydrochloride capsules, reduce dose gradually whenever possible. Gradual dosage reduction will require use of another sertraline hydrochloride product ( 2.5 , 5.5 ) 2.1 Dosage in Patients with MDD and OCD Do not initiate treatment with sertraline hydrochloride capsules because the only available dose strengths are 150 mg and 200 mg. Use another sertraline hydrochloride product for initial dosage, titration, and dosages below 150 mg once daily. Refer to Prescribing Information of the other sertraline hydrochloride products for the recommended dosage for those products. Sertraline hydrochloride capsules can be initiated in patients receiving 100 mg or 125 mg of sertraline hydrochloride for at least one week. The recommended dosage of sertraline hydrochloride capsules is 150 mg or 200 mg once daily. The maximum recommended dosage is 200 mg once daily. 2.2 Administration Instructions Administer sertraline hydrochloride capsules orally. Swallow capsules whole; do not open, crush, or chew. 2.3 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting sertraline hydrochloride capsules Prior to initiating treatment with sertraline hydrochloride capsules or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . 2.4 Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor Antidepressant At least 14 days must elapse between discontinuation of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) antidepressant and initiation of sertraline hydrochloride capsules. In addition, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping sertraline hydrochloride capsules before starting an MAOI antidepressant [ see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. 2.5 Discontinuation of Treatment with sertraline hydrochloride capsules Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of sertraline hydrochloride capsules [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ]. Gradually reduce the dosage rather than stopping sertraline hydrochloride capsules abruptly whenever possible. Given that dosage strengths lower than 150 mg of sertraline hydrochloride capsules are not available, gradual dosage reduction will require the use of another sertraline hydrochloride product. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Starting Dosage Maximum Dosage MDD (2.1) 50 mg per day 200 mg per day OCD (2.1) 25 mg per day (ages 6 to 12) 200 mg per day 50 mg per day (ages ≥ 13) PD, PTSD, SAD (2.1) 25 mg per day 200 mg per day PMDD (2.2) continuous dosing 50 mg per day 150 mg per day PMDD (2.2) intermittent dosing 50 mg per day during luteal phase only 100 mg per day during luteal phase only If inadequate response to starting dosage, titrate in 25 to 50 mg per day increments once weekly in MDD, OCD, PD, PTSD, and SAD ( 2.1 ) See Full Prescribing Information for titration in PMDD ( 2.2 ) Hepatic impairment: Mild: Recommended starting and maximum dosage is half recommended dosage ( 2.4 ) Moderate or severe: Not recommended ( 2.4 ) When discontinuing sertraline hydrochloride tablets, reduce dose gradually ( 2.6 , 5.4 ) 2.1 Dosage in Patients with MDD, OCD, PD, PTSD, and SAD The recommended initial dosage and maximum sertraline hydrochloride dosage in patients with MDD, OCD, PD, PTSD, and SAD are displayed in Table 1 below. Table 1 : Recommended Daily Dosage of Sertraline Hydrochloride in Patients with MDD , OCD , PD , PTSD , and SAD Indication Starting Dose Therapeutic Range Adults MDD 50 mg OCD 50 mg 50 to 200 mg PD, PTSD, SAD 25 mg Pediatric Patients OCD (ages 6 to 12 years old) 25 mg 50 to 200 mg OCD (ages 13 to 17 years old) 50 mg 2.2 Dosage in Patients with PMDD The recommended starting sertraline hydrochloride dosage in adult women with PMDD is 50 mg per day. Sertraline hydrochloride tablets may be administered either continuously (every day throughout the menstrual cycle) or intermittently (only during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle, i.e., starting the daily dosage 14 days prior to the anticipated onset of menstruation and continuing through the onset of menses). 2.3 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Sertraline Hydrochloride Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with sertraline hydrochloride tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4) ] . 2.4 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Both the recommended starting dosage and therapeutic range in patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child Pugh scores 5 or 6) are half the recommended daily dosage [See Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 , 2.2 )] . The use of sertraline hydrochloride tablets in patients with moderate (Child Pugh scores 7 to 9) or severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh scores 10 to 15) is not recommended [See Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.5 Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor Antidepressant At least 14 days must elapse between discontinuation of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) antidepressant and initiation of sertraline hydrochloride tablets. In addition, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping sertraline hydrochloride tablets before starting an MAOI antidepressant [See Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . 2.6 Discontinuation of Treatment with Sertraline Hydrochloride Tablets Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of sertraline hydrochloride tablets [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . Gradually reduce the dosage rather than stopping sertraline hydrochloride tablets abruptly whenever possible. Table 1: Recommended Daily Dosage of Sertraline Hydrochloride in Patients with MDD, OCD, PD, PTSD, and SAD Indication Starting Dose Therapeutic Range Adults MDD 50 mg 50 to 200 mg OCD 50 mg PD, PTSD, SAD 25 mg Pediatric Patients OCD (ages 6 to 12 years old) 25 mg 50 to 200 mg OCD (ages 13 to 17 years old) 50 mg 2.2 Dosage in Patients with PMDD The recommended starting sertraline hydrochloride dosage in adult women with PMDD is 50 mg per day. When dosing continuously, patients not responding to a 50 mg dosage may benefit from dosage increases at 50 mg increments per menstrual cycle up to 150 mg per day. When dosing intermittently, patients not responding to a 50 mg dosage may benefit from increasing the dosage up to a maximum of 100 mg per day during the next menstrual cycle (and subsequent cycles) as follows: 50 mg per day during the first 3 days of dosing followed by 100 mg per day during the remaining days in the dosing cycle. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ­Indication Starting Dosage Maximum Dosage MDD ( 2.1 ) 50 mg per day 200 mg per day OCD ( 2.1 ) 25 mg per day (ages 6 to 12) 50 mg per day (ages ≥ 13) 200 mg per day PD, PTSD, SAD ( 2.1 ) 25 mg per day 200 mg per day PMDD ( 2.2 ) continuous dosing 50 mg per day 150 mg per day PMDD ( 2.2 ) intermittent dosing 50 mg per day during luteal phase only 100 mg per day during luteal phase only If inadequate response to starting dosage, titrate in 25 to 50 mg per day increments once weekly in MDD, OCD, PD, PTSD, and SAD ( 2.1 ) See Full Prescribing Information for titration in PMDD ( 2.2 ) Hepatic impairment: Mild: Recommended starting and maximum dosage is half recommended dosage ( 2.4 ) Moderate or severe: Not recommended ( 2.4 ) When discontinuing sertraline hydrochloride tablets, reduce dose gradually ( 2.6 , 5.4 ) 2.1 Dosage in Patients with MDD, OCD, PD, PTSD, and SAD The recommended initial dosage and maximum sertraline hydrochloride dosage in patients with MDD, OCD, PD, PTSD, and SAD are displayed in Table 1 below. 2.3 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Sertraline Hydrochloride Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with sertraline hydrochloride tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [See Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. The use of sertraline hydrochloride tablets in patients with moderate (Child Pugh scores 7 to 9) or severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh scores 10 to 15) is not recommended [See Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. In addition, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping sertraline hydrochloride tablets before starting an MAOI antidepressant [See Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 2.6 Discontinuation of Treatment with Sertraline Hydrochloride Tablets Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of sertraline hydrochloride tablets [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ‑ Indication Starting Dosage Maximum Dosage MDD ( 2.1 ) 50 mg per day 200 mg per day OCD ( 2.1 ) 25 mg per day (ages 6 to 12) 50 mg per day (ages ≥ 13) 200 mg per day PD, PTSD, SAD ( 2.1 ) 25 mg per day 200 mg per day PMDD ( 2.2 ) continuous dosing 50 mg per day 150 mg per day PMDD ( 2.2 ) intermittent dosing 50 mg per day during luteal phase only 100 mg per day during luteal phase only • If inadequate response to starting dosage, titrate in 25 to 50 mg per day increments once weekly in MDD, OCD, PD, PTSD, and SAD ( 2.1 ) • See Full Prescribing Information for titration in PMDD ( 2.2 ) • Hepatic impairment: o Mild: Recommended starting and maximum dosage is half recommended dosage ( 2.4 ) o Moderate or severe: Not recommended ( 2.4 ) • When discontinuing sertraline hydrochloride tablets, reduce dose gradually ( 2.6 , 5.4 ) 2.1 Dosage in Patients with MDD, OCD, PD, PTSD, and SAD The recommended initial dosage and maximum sertraline hydrochloride dosage in patients with MDD, OCD, PD, PTSD, and SAD are displayed in Table 1 below. • When dosing continuously , patients not responding to a 50 mg dosage may benefit from dosage increases at 50 mg increments per menstrual cycle up to 150 mg per day. • When dosing intermittently , patients not responding to a 50 mg dosage may benefit from increasing the dosage up to a maximum of 100 mg per day during the next menstrual cycle (and subsequent cycles) as follows: 50 mg per day during the first 3 days of dosing followed by 100 mg per day during the remaining days in the dosing cycle. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Starting Dosage Maximum Dosage MDD ( 2.1 ) 50 mg per day 200 mg per day OCD ( 2.1 ) 25 mg per day (ages 6 to 12) 50 mg per day (ages ≥ 13) 200 mg per day PD, PTSD, SAD ( 2.1 ) 25 mg per day 200 mg per day PMDD ( 2.2 ) continuous dosing 50 mg per day 150 mg per day PMDD ( 2.2 ) intermittent dosing 50 mg per day during luteal phase only 100 mg per day during luteal phase only If inadequate response to starting dosage, titrate in 25 mg to 50 mg per day increments once weekly in MDD, OCD, PD, PTSD, and SAD ( 2.1 ) See Full Prescribing Information for titration in PMDD ( 2.2 ) Hepatic impairment: Mild: Recommended starting and maximum dosage is half recommended dosage ( 2.4 ) Moderate or severe: Not recommended ( 2.4 ) When discontinuing sertraline hydrochloride tablets, reduce dose gradually ( 2.6 , 5.4 ) 2.1 Dosage in Patients with MDD, OCD, PD, PTSD, and SAD The recommended initial dosage and maximum sertraline hydrochloride dosage in patients with MDD, OCD, PD, PTSD, and SAD are displayed in Table 1 below. For adults and pediatric patients, subsequent dosages may be increased in case of an inadequate response in 25 mg to 50 mg per day increments once a week, depending on tolerability, up to a maximum of 200 mg per day. Table 1: Recommended Daily Dosage of Sertraline Hydrochloride in Patients with MDD, OCD, PD, PTSD, and SAD Indication Starting Dose Therapeutic Range Adults MDD 50 mg OCD 50 mg 50 mg to 200 mg PD, PTSD, SAD 25 mg Pediatric Patients OCD (ages 6 to 12 years old) 25 mg 50 mg to 200 mg OCD (ages 13 to 17 years old) 50 mg 2.2 Dosage in Patients with PMDD The recommended starting sertraline hydrochloride dosage in adult women with PMDD is 50 mg per day. 2.4 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Both the recommended starting dosage and therapeutic range in patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child Pugh scores 5 or 6) are half the recommended daily dosage [See Dosage and Administration (2.1 , 2.2 )]. 2.6 Discontinuation of Treatment with Sertraline Hydrochloride Tablets Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of sertraline [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ].
Warnings: WARNINGS Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Patients with major depressive disorder (MDD), both adult and pediatric, may experience worsening of their depression and/or the emergence of suicidal ideation and behavior (suicidality) or unusual changes in behavior, whether or not they are taking antidepressant medications, and this risk may persist until significant remission occurs. Suicide is a known risk of depression and certain other psychiatric disorders, and these disorders themselves are the strongest predictors of suicide. There has been a long-standing concern, however, that antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment. Pooled analyses of short-term placebo-controlled trials of antidepressant drugs (SSRIs and others) showed that these drugs increase the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents, and young adults (ages 18-24) with major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. Short-term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24; there was a reduction with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older. The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in children and adolescents with MDD, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 24 short-term trials of 9 antidepressant drugs in over 4400 patients. The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in adults with MDD or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 295 short-term trials (median duration of 2 months) of 11 antidepressant drugs in over 77,000 patients. There was considerable variation in risk of suicidality among drugs, but a tendency toward an increase in the younger patients for almost all drugs studied. There were differences in absolute risk of suicidality across the different indications, with the highest incidence in MDD. The risk differences (drug vs placebo), however, were relatively stable within age strata and across indications. These risk differences (drug-placebo difference in the number of cases of suicidality per 1000 patients treated) are provided in Table 1. Table 1 Age Range Drug-Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to placebo <18 14 additional cases 18-24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to placebo 25-64 1 fewer case >65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. There were suicides in the adult trials, but the number was not sufficient to reach any conclusion about drug effect on suicide. It is unknown whether the suicidality risk extends to longer-term use, i.e., beyond several months. However, there is substantial evidence from placebo-controlled maintenance trials in adults with depression that the use of antidepressants can delay the recurrence of depression. All patients being treated with antidepressants for any indication should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening, suicidality, and unusual changes in behavior, especially during the initial few months of a course of drug therapy, or at times of dose changes, either increases or decreases. The following symptoms, anxiety, agitation, panic attacks, insomnia, irritability, hostility, aggressiveness, impulsivity, akathisia (psychomotor restlessness), hypomania, and mania, have been reported in adult and pediatric patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder as well as for other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric. Although a causal link between the emergence of such symptoms and either the worsening of depression and/or the emergence of suicidal impulses has not been established, there is concern that such symptoms may represent precursors to emerging suicidality. Consideration should be given to changing the therapeutic regimen, including possibly discontinuing the medication, in patients whose depression is persistently worse, or who are experiencing emergent suicidality or symptoms that might be precursors to worsening depression or suicidality, especially if these symptoms are severe, abrupt in onset, or were not part of the patient's presenting symptoms. If the decision has been made to discontinue treatment, medication should be tapered, as rapidly as is feasible, but with recognition that abrupt discontinuation can be associated with certain symptoms (see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION —Discontinuation of Treatment with sertraline hydrochloride, for a description of the risks of discontinuation of Sertraline hydrochloride). Families and caregivers of patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder or other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric, should be alerted about the need to monitor patients for the emergence of agitation, irritability, unusual changes in behavior, and the other symptoms described above, as well as the emergence of suicidality, and to report such symptoms immediately to health care providers. Such monitoring should include daily observation by families and caregivers. Prescriptions for Sertraline hydrochloride should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management, in order to reduce the risk of overdose. Screening Patients for Bipolar Disorder: A major depressive episode may be the initial presentation of bipolar disorder. It is generally believed (though not established in controlled trials) that treating such an episode with an antidepressant alone may increase the likelihood of precipitation of a mixed/manic episode in patients at risk for bipolar disorder. Whether any of the symptoms described above represent such a conversion is unknown. However, prior to initiating treatment with an antidepressant, patients with depressive symptoms should be adequately screened to determine if they are at risk for bipolar disorder; such screening should include a detailed psychiatric history, including a family history of suicide, bipolar disorder, and depression. It should be noted that sertraline hydrochloride is not approved for use in treating bipolar depression. Serotonin Syndrome: The development of a potentially life-threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with SNRIs and SSRIs, including Sertraline hydrochloride, alone but particularly with concomitant use of other serotonergic drugs (including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone, and St. John's Wort) and with drugs that impair metabolism of serotonin (in particular, MAOIs, both those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms(e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). Patients should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. The concomitant use of sertraline hydrochloride with MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders is contraindicated. Sertraline hydrochloride should also not be started in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. All reports with methylene blue that provided information on the route of administration involved intravenous administration in the dose range of 1 mg/kg to 8 mg/kg. No reports involved the administration of methylene blue by other routes (such as oral tablets or local tissue injection) or at lower doses. There may be circumstances when it is necessary to initiate treatment with a MAOI such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue in a patient taking sertraline hydrochloride. Sertraline hydrochloride should be discontinued before initiating treatment with the MAOI (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). If concomitant use of sertraline hydrochloride with other serotonergic drugs including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, buspirone, tryptophan, and St. John's Wort is clinically warranted, patients should be made aware of a potential increased risk for serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Treatment with Sertraline hydrochloride and any concomitant serotonergic agents should be discontinued immediately if the above events occur and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated. Angle-Closure Glaucoma: The pupillary dilation that occurs following use of many antidepressant drugs including sertraline may trigger an angle closure attack in a patient with anatomically narrow angles who does not have a patent iridectomy.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS All Dosage Forms of Sertraline: The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with Sertraline hydrochloride or within 14 days of stopping treatment with Sertraline hydrochloride is contraindicated because of an because of an increased risk if serotonin syndrome. The use of Sertraline hydrochloride within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Starting Sertraline hydrochloride in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methyelene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). Concomitant use in patients taking pimozide is contraindicated (see PRECAUTIONS ). Sertraline is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to sertraline or any of the inactive ingredients in sertraline hydrochloride tablets. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sertraline hydrochloride oral solution is contraindicated in patients: Taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs, (including the MAOIs linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [See Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Taking pimozide [See Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . With known hypersensitivity to sertraline (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema) [See Adverse Reactions (6.1 , 6.2) ]. In addition to the contraindications for all sertraline hydrochloride oral solution formulations listed above, sertraline hydrochloride oral solution is contraindicated in patients: Taking disulfiram. Sertraline hydrochloride oral solution contains alcohol, and concomitant use of sertraline hydrochloride oral solution and disulfiram may result in a disulfiram-alcohol reaction. Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), or use within 14 days of stopping MAOIs ( 4 , 7.1 ) Concomitant use of pimozide ( 4 , 7.1 ) Known hypersensitivity to sertraline or excipients ( 4 , 5.4 ) Sertraline hydrochloride oral solution only: Concomitant use of disulfiram ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sertraline hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients: Taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs, (including the MAOIs linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [See Warnings and Precautions (5.2), Drug Interactions (7.1)] . Taking pimozide [See Drug Interactions (7.1)] . With known hypersensitivity to sertraline (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema) [See Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2)]. Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), or use within 14 days of stopping MAOIs (4, 7.1) Concomitant use of pimozide (4, 7.1) Known hypersensitivity to sertraline or excipients (4, 5.4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sertraline hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in patients: Taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs, (including the MAOIs linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) ]. Taking pimozide [ see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) ]. With known hypersensitivity to sertraline or the excipients in sertraline hydrochloride capsules (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 , 6.2 ) ]. Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), or use within 14 days of stopping MAOIs ( 4 , 7.1 ) Concomitant use of pimozide ( 4 , 7.1 ) Known hypersensitivity to sertraline or excipients ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sertraline hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients: Taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs, (including the MAOIs linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . Taking pimozide [See Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. With known hypersensitivity to sertraline (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema) [See Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 , 6.2 )] . Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), or use within 14 days of stopping MAOIs ( 4 , 7.1 ) Concomitant use of pimozide ( 4 , 7.1 ) Known hypersensitivity to sertraline or excipients ( 4 , 5.4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sertraline hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients: Taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs, (including the MAOIs linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [See Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sertraline hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients: • Taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs, (including the MAOIs linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [See Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . • Taking pimozide [See Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . • With known hypersensitivity to sertraline (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema) [See Adverse Reactions (6.1 , 6.2) ]. • Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), or use within 14 days of stopping MAOIs ( 4 , 7.1 ) • Concomitant use of pimozide ( 4 , 7.1 ) • Known hypersensitivity to sertraline or excipients ( 4 , 5.4 )
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Potential Effects of Coadministration of Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Proteins –Because sertraline is tightly bound to plasma protein, the administration of sertraline hydrochloride to a patient taking another drug which is tightly bound to protein (e.g., warfarin, digitoxin) may cause a shift in plasma concentrations potentially resulting in an adverse effect. Conversely, adverse effects may result from displacement of protein bound sertraline hydrochloride by other tightly bound drugs. In a study comparing prothrombin time AUC (0-120 hr) following dosing with warfarin (0.75 mg/kg) before and after 21 days of dosing with either sertraline hydrochloride (50-200 mg/day) or placebo, there was a mean increase in prothrombin time of 8% relative to baseline for sertraline hydrochloride compared to a 1% decrease for placebo (p<0.02). The normalization of prothrombin time for the sertraline hydrochloride group was delayed compared to the placebo group. The clinical significance of this change is unknown. Accordingly, prothrombin time should be carefully monitored when sertraline hydrochloride therapy is initiated or stopped. Cimetidine –In a study assessing disposition of sertraline hydrochloride (100 mg) on the second of 8 days of cimetidine administration (800 mg daily), there were significant increases in sertraline hydrochloride mean AUC (50%), C max (24%) and half-life (26%) compared to the placebo group. The clinical significance of these changes is unknown. CNS Active Drugs –In a study comparing the disposition of intravenously administered diazepam before and after 21 days of dosing with either sertraline hydrochloride (50 to 200 mg/day escalating dose) or placebo, there was a 32% decrease relative to baseline in diazepam clearance for the sertraline hydrochloride group compared to a 19% decrease relative to baseline for the placebo group (p<0.03). There was a 23% increase in T max for desmethyldiazepam in the sertraline hydrochloride group compared to a 20% decrease in the placebo group (p<0.03). In a placebo-controlled trial in normal volunteers, the administration of two doses of Sertraline hydrochloride did not significantly alter steady-state lithium levels or the renal clearance of lithium. Nonetheless, at this time, it is recommended that plasma lithium levels be monitored following initiation of Sertraline hydrochloride therapy with appropriate adjustments to the lithium dose. In a controlled study of a single dose (2 mg) of pimozide, 200 mg sertraline (q.d.) co-administration to steady state was associated with a mean increase in pimozide AUC and C max of about 40%, but was not associated with any changes in EKG. Since the highest recommended pimozide dose (10 mg) has not been evaluated in combination with sertraline, the effect on QT interval and PK parameters at doses higher than 2 mg at this time are not known. While the mechanism of this interaction is unknown, due to the narrow therapeutic index of pimozide and due to the interaction noted at a low dose of pimozide, concomitant administration of Sertraline hydrochloride and pimozide should be contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Results of a placebo-controlled trail in normal volunteers suggest that chronic administration of sertraline 200 mg/day does not produce clinically important inhibition of phenytoin metabolism. Nonetheless, at this time, it is recommended that plasma phenytoin concentrations be monitored following initiation of Sertraline Hydrochloride therapy with appropriate adjustments to the phenytoin dose, particularly in patients with multiple underlying medical conditions and/or those receiving multiple concomitant medications. The effect of Sertraline hydrochloride on valproate levels has not been evaluated in clinical trials. In the absence of such data, it is recommended that plasma valproate levels be monitored following initiation of Sertraline hydrochloride therapy with appropriate adjustments to the valproate dose. The risk of using sertraline hydrochloride in combination with other CNS active drugs has not been systematically evaluated. Consequently, caution is advised if the concomitant administration of sertraline hydrochloride and such drugs is required. There is limited controlled experience regarding the optimal timing of switching from other drugs effective in the treatment of major depressive disorder, premenstrual dysphoric disorder to sertraline hydrochloride. Care and prudent medical judgment should be exercised when switching, particularly from long-acting agents. The duration of an appropriate washout period which should intervene before switching from one selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) to another has not been established. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors –See CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . Drugs Metabolized by P450 3A4 –In three separate in vivo interaction studies, sertraline was co-administered with cytochrome P450 3A4 substrates, terfenadine, carbamazepine, or cisapride under steady-state conditions. The results of these studies indicated that sertraline did not increase plasma concentrations of terfenadine, carbamazepine, or cisapride. These data indicate that sertraline's extent of inhibition of P450 3A4 activity is not likely to be of clinical significance. Results of the interaction study with cisapride indicate that sertraline 200 mg (q.d.) induces the metabolism of cisapride (cisapride AUC and C max were reduced by about 35%). Drugs Metabolized by P450 2D6 – Many drugs effective in the treatment of major depressive disorder, e.g., the SSRIs, including sertraline, and most tricyclic antidepressant drugs effective in the treatment of major depressive disorder inhibit the biochemical activity of the drug metabolizing isozyme cytochrome P450 2D6 (debrisoquin hydroxylase), and, thus, may increase the plasma concentrations of co-administered drugs that are metabolized by P450 2D6. The drugs for which this potential interaction is of greatest concern are those metabolized primarily by 2D6 and which have a narrow therapeutic index, e.g., the tricyclic antidepressant drugs effective in the treatment of major depressive disorder and the Type 1C antiarrhythmics propafenone and flecainide. The extent to which this interaction is an important clinical problem depends on the extent of the inhibition of P450 2D6 by the antidepressant and the therapeutic index of the coadministered drug. There is variability among the drugs effective in the treatment of major depressive disorder in the extent of clinically important 2D6 inhibition, and in fact sertraline at lower doses has a less prominent inhibitory effect on 2D6 than some others in the class. Nevertheless, even sertraline has the potential for clinically important 2D6 inhibition. Consequently, concomitant use of a drug metabolized by P450 2D6 with sertraline hydrochloride may require lower doses than usually prescribed for the other drug. Furthermore, whenever sertraline hydrochloride is withdrawn from co-therapy, an increased dose of the co-administered drug may be required (see Tricyclic Antidepressant Drugs Effective in the Treatment of Major Depressive Disorder under PRECAUTIONS). Serotonergic Drugs: see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . Triptans: There have been rare post marketing reports of serotonin syndrome with use of an SNRI or an SSRI and a triptan. If concomitant treatment of SNRIs and SSRIs, including sertraline hydrochloride, with a triptan is clinically warranted, careful observation of the patient is advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases (see WARNINGS – Serotonin Syndrome). Sumatriptan –There have been rare postmarketing reports describing patients with weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination following the use of a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) and sumatriptan. If concomitant treatment with sumatriptan and an SSRI (e.g., citalopram, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, paroxetine, sertraline) is clinically warranted, appropriate observation of the patient is advised. Tricyclic Antidepressant Drugs Effective in the Treatment of Major Depressive Disorder (TCAs) –The extent to which SSRI–TCA interactions may pose clinical problems will depend on the degree of inhibition and the pharmacokinetics of the SSRI involved. Nevertheless, caution is indicated in the co-administration of TCAs with sertraline hydrochloride, because sertraline may inhibit TCA metabolism. Plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored, and the dose of TCA may need to be reduced, if a TCA is co-administered with sertraline hydrochloride (see Drugs Metabolized by P450 2D6 under PRECAUTIONS ). Hypoglycemic Drugs –In a placebo-controlled trial in normal volunteers, administration of sertraline hydrochloride for 22 days (including 200 mg/day for the final 13 days) caused a statistically significant 16% decrease from baseline in the clearance of tolbutamide following an intravenous 1000 mg dose. Sertraline hydrochloride administration did not noticeably change either the plasma protein binding or the apparent volume of distribution of tolbutamide, suggesting that the decreased clearance was due to a change in the metabolism of the drug. The clinical significance of this decrease in tolbutamide clearance is unknown. Atenolol – Sertraline hydrochloride (100 mg) when administered to 10 healthy male subjects had no effect on the beta-adrenergic blocking ability of atenolol. Digoxin –In a placebo-controlled trial in normal volunteers, administration of sertraline hydrochloride for 17 days (including 200 mg/day for the last 10 days) did not change serum digoxin levels or digoxin renal clearance. Microsomal Enzyme Induction –Preclinical studies have shown sertraline hydrochloride to induce hepatic microsomal enzymes. In clinical studies, sertraline hydrochloride was shown to induce hepatic enzymes minimally as determined by a small (5%) but statistically significant decrease in antipyrine half-life following administration of 200 mg/day for 21 days. This small change in antipyrine half-life reflects a clinically insignificant change in hepatic metabolism. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (Non-selective NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin, etc.) Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies of the case-control and cohort design that have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding have also shown that concurrent use of an NSAID or aspirin may potentiate this risk of bleeding. These studies have also shown that concurrent use of an NSAID or aspirin may potentiate this risk of bleeding. Altered anticoagulant effects, including increased bleeding, have been reported when SSRIs or SNRIs are coadministered with warfarin. Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when Sertraline hydrochloride is initiated or discontinued. Electroconvulsive Therapy –There are no clinical studies establishing the risks or benefits of the combined use of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) and Sertraline hydrochloride. Alcohol –Although Sertraline hydrochloride did not potentiate the cognitive and psychomotor effects of alcohol in experiments with normal subjects, the concomitant use of sertraline hydrochloride and alcohol is not recommended. Carcinogenesis –Lifetime carcinogenicity studies were carried out in CD-1 mice and Long-Evans rats at doses up to 40 mg/kg/day. These doses correspond to 1 times (mice) and 2 times (rats) the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) on a mg/m2 basis. There was a dose-related increase of liver adenomas in male mice receiving sertraline at 10-40 mg/kg (0.25-1.0 times the MRHD on a mg/m 2 basis). No increase was seen in female mice or in rats of either sex receiving the same treatments, nor was there an increase in hepatocellular carcinomas. Liver adenomas have a variable rate of spontaneous occurrence in the CD-1 mouse and are of unknown significance to humans. There was an increase in follicular adenomas of the thyroid in female rats receiving sertraline at 40 mg/kg (2 times the MRHD on a mg/m 2 basis); this was not accompanied by thyroid hyperplasia. While there was an increase in uterine adenocarcinomas in rats receiving sertraline at 10-40 mg/kg (0.5-2.0 times the MRHD on a mg/m 2 basis) compared to placebo controls, this effect was not clearly drug related. Mutagenesis –Sertraline had no genotoxic effects, with or without metabolic activation, based on the following assays: bacterial mutation assay; mouse lymphoma mutation assay; and tests for cytogenetic aberrations in vivo in mouse bone marrow and in vitro in human lymphocytes. Impairment of Fertility –A decrease in fertility was seen in one of two rat studies at a dose of 80 mg/kg (4 times the maximum recommended human dose on a mg/m 2 basis). Pregnancy–Pregnancy Category C –Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits at doses up to 80 mg/kg/day and 40 mg/kg/day, respectively. These doses correspond to approximately 4 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) on a mg/m 2 basis. There was no evidence of teratogenicity at any dose level. When pregnant rats and rabbits were given sertraline during the period of organogenesis, delayed ossification was observed in fetuses at doses of 10 mg/kg (0.5 times the MRHD on a mg/m 2 basis) in rats and 40 mg/kg (4 times the MRHD on a mg/m 2 basis) in rabbits. When female rats received sertraline during the last third of gestation and throughout lactation, there was an increase in the number of stillborn pups and in the number of pups dying during the first 4 days after birth. Pup body weights were also decreased during the first four days after birth. These effects occurred at a dose of 20 mg/kg (1 times the MRHD on a mg/m 2 basis). The no effect dose for rat pup mortality was 10 mg/kg (0.5 times the MRHD on a mg/m 2 basis). The decrease in pup survival was shown to be due to in utero exposure to sertraline. The clinical significance of these effects is unknown. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Sertraline hydrochloride should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Pregnancy-Nonteratogenic Effects –Neonates exposed to sertraline hydrochloride and other SSRIs or SNRIs, late in the third trimester have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization, respiratory support, and tube feeding. These findings are based on postmarketing reports. Such complications can arise immediately upon delivery. Reported clinical findings have included respiratory distress, cyanosis, apnea, seizures, temperature instability, feeding difficulty, vomiting, hypoglycemia, hypotonia, hypertonia, hyperreflexia, tremor, jitteriness, irritability, and constant crying. These features are consistent with either a direct toxic effect of SSRIs and SNRIs or, possibly, a drug discontinuation syndrome. It should be noted that, in some cases, the clinical picture is consistent with serotonin syndrome (see WARNINGS :Serotonin Syndrome). Infants exposed to SSRIs in pregnancy may have an increased risk for persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn (PPHN). PPHN occurs in 1 – 2 per 1,000 live births in the general population and is associated with substantial neonatal morbidity and mortality. Several recent epidemiologic studies suggest a positive statistical association between SSRI use (including sertraline hydrochloride) in pregnancy and PPHN. Other studies do not show a significant statistical association. Physicians should also note the results of a prospective longitudinal study of 201 pregnant women with a history of major depression, who were either on antidepressants or had received antidepressants less than 12 weeks prior to their last menstrual period, and were in remission. Women who discontinued antidepressant medication during pregnancy showed a significant increase in relapse of their major depression compared to those women who remained on antidepressant medication throughout pregnancy. When treating a pregnant woman with sertraline hydrochloride, the physician should carefully consider both the potential risks of taking an SSRI, along with the established benefits of treating depression with an antidepressant. This decision can only be made on a case by case basis (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Labor and Delivery –The effect of sertraline hydrochloride on labor and delivery in humans is unknown. Nursing Mothers –It is not known whether, and if so in what amount, sertraline or its metabolites are excreted in human milk. Because many drugs are excreted in human milk, caution should be exercised when sertraline hydrochloride is administered to a nursing woman. Pediatric Use – The efficacy of Sertraline hydrochloride for the treatment of obsessive-compulsive disorder was demonstrated in a 12-week, multicenter, placebo-controlled study with 187 outpatients ages 6-17 (see Clinical Trials under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population other than pediatric patients with OCD have not been established (see BOX WARNING and WARNINGS -Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk). Two placebo controlled trials (n=373) in pediatric patients with MDD have been conducted with sertraline hydrochloride, and the data were not sufficient to support a claim for use in pediatric patients. Anyone considering the use of Sertraline hydrochloride in a child or adolescent must balance the potential risks with the clinical need. The safety of Sertraline hydrochloride use in children and adolescents with OCD, ages 6-18, was evaluated in a 12-week, multicenter, placebo-controlled study with 187 outpatients, ages 6-17, and in a flexible dose, 52 week open extension study of 137 patients, ages 6-18, who had completed the initial 12week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Sertraline hydrochloride was administered at doses of either 25 mg/day (children, ages 6-12) or 50 mg/day (adolescents, ages 13-18) and then titrated in weekly 25 mg/day or 50 mg/day increments, respectively, to a maximum dose of 200 mg/day based upon clinical response. The mean dose for completers was 157 mg/day. In the acute 12 week pediatric study and in the 52 week study, Sertraline hydrochloride had an adverse event profile generally similar to that observed in adults. Sertraline pharmacokinetics were evaluated in 61 pediatric patients between 6 and 17 years of age with major depressive disorder or OCD and revealed similar drug exposures to those of adults when plasma concentration was adjusted for weight (see Pharmacokinetics under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Approximately 600 patients with major depressive disorder or OCD between 6 and 17 years of age have received Sertraline hydrochloride in clinical trials, both controlled and uncontrolled. The adverse event profile observed in these patients was generally similar to that observed in adult studies with sertraline hydrochloride (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). As with other SSRIs, decreased appetite and weight loss have been observed in association with the use of Sertraline hydrochloride. In a pooled analysis of two 10-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled, flexible dose (50-200 mg) outpatient trials for major depressive disorder (n=373), there was a difference in weight change between sertraline and placebo of roughly 1 kilogram, for both children (ages 6-11) and adolescents (ages 12-17), in both cases representing a slight weight loss for sertraline compared to a slight gain for placebo. At baseline the mean weight for children was 39.0 kg for sertraline and 38.5 kg for placebo. At baseline the mean weight for adolescents was 61.4 kg for sertraline and 62.5 kg for placebo. There was a bigger difference between sertraline and placebo in the proportion of outliers for clinically important weight loss in children than in adolescents. For children, about 7% had a weight loss > 7% of body weight compared to none of the placebo patients; for adolescents, about 2% had a weight loss > 7% of body weight compared to about 1% of the placebo patients. A subset of these patients who completed the randomized controlled trials (sertraline n=99, placebo n=122) were continued into a 24-week, flexible-dose, open-label, extension study. A mean weight loss of approximately 0.5 kg was seen during the first eight weeks of treatment for subjects with first exposure to sertraline during the open-label extension study, similar to mean weight loss observed among sertraline treated subjects during the first eight weeks of the randomized controlled trials. The subjects continuing in the open label study began gaining weight compared to baseline by week 12 of sertraline treatment. Those subjects who completed 34 weeks of sertraline treatment (10 weeks in a placebo controlled trial + 24 weeks open label, n=68) had weight gain that was similar to that expected using data from age-adjusted peers. Regular monitoring of weight and growth is recommended if treatment of a pediatric patient with an SSRI is to be continued long term. Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 6 have not been established. The risks, if any, that may be associated with Sertraline hydrochloride's use beyond 1 year in children and adolescents with OCD or major depressive disorder have not been systematically assessed. The prescriber should be mindful that the evidence relied upon to conclude that sertraline is safe for use in children and adolescents derives from clinical studies that were 10 to 52 weeks in duration and from the extrapolation of experience gained with adult patients. In particular, there are no studies that directly evaluate the effects of long-term sertraline use on the growth, development, and maturation of children and adolescents. Although there is no affirmative finding to suggest that sertraline possesses a capacity to adversely affect growth, development or maturation, the absence of such findings is not compelling evidence of the absence of the potential of sertraline to have adverse effects in chronic use (see WARNINGS – Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk). Geriatric Use –U.S. geriatric clinical studies of Sertraline hydrochloride in major depressive disorder included 663 Sertraline hydrochloride -treated subjects ≥ 65 years of age, of those, 180 were ≥ 75 years of age. No overall differences in the pattern of adverse reactions were observed in the geriatric clinical trial subjects relative to those reported in younger subjects (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ), and other reported experience has not identified differences in safety patterns between the elderly and younger subjects. As with all medications, greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out. There were 947 subjects in placebo-controlled geriatric clinical studies of Sertraline hydrochloride in major depressive disorder. No overall differences in the pattern of efficacy were observed in the geriatric clinical trial subjects relative to those reported in younger subjects. Other Adverse Events in Geriatric Patients. In 354 geriatric subjects treated with Sertraline hydrochloride in placebo-controlled trials, the overall profile of adverse events was generally similar to that shown in Tables 2 and 3. Urinary tract infection was the only adverse event not appearing in Tables 2 and 3 and reported at an incidence of at least 2% and at a rate greater than placebo in placebo-controlled trials. SSRIS and SNRIs, including Sertraline hydrochloride, have been associated with cases of clinically significant hyponatremia in elderly patients, who may be at greater risk for this adverse event (see PRECAUTIONS , Hyponatremia). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Protein-bound drugs: Monitor for adverse reactions and reduce dosage of sertraline hydrochloride or other protein-bound drugs (e.g., warfarin) as warranted. ( 7.1 , 12.3 ) CYP2D6 substrates: Reduce dosage of drugs metabolized by CYP2D6. ( 7.1 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Clinically Significant Drug Interactions Table 5 includes clinically significant drug interactions with sertraline hydrochloride [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Table 5: Clinically-Significant Drug Interactions with Sertraline Hydrochloride Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of SSRIs including sertraline hydrochloride and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Sertraline hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [See Dosage and Administration (2.5) , Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Examples: selegiline, tranylcypromine, isocarboxazid, phenelzine, linezolid, methylene blue Pimozide Clinical Impact: Increased plasma concentrations of pimozide, a drug with a narrow therapeutic index, may increase the risk of QTc prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias. Intervention: Concomitant use of pimozide and sertraline hydrochloride is contraindicated [See Contraindications (4) ]. Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of serotonergic drugs with sertraline hydrochloride increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of sertraline hydrochloride and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [See Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Examples: Other SSRIs, SNRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants,opioids, lithium, tryptophan, buspirone, amphetamines, and St. John’s Wort. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants) Clinical Impact: The concurrent use of an antiplatelet agent or anticoagulant with sertraline hydrochloride may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Intervention: Inform patients of the increased risk of bleeding associated with the concomitant use of sertraline hydrochloride and antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio [See Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Examples: aspirin, clopidogrel, heparin, warfarin Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Protein Clinical Impact: Sertraline hydrochloride is highly bound to plasma protein. The concomitant use of sertraline hydrochloride with another drug that is highly bound to plasma protein may increase free concentrations of sertraline hydrochloride or other tightly-bound drugs in plasma [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention: Monitor for adverse reactions and reduce dosage of sertraline hydrochloride or other protein-bound drugs as warranted. Examples: warfarin Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: Sertraline hydrochloride is a CYP2D6 inhibitor [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The concomitant use of sertraline hydrochloride with a CYP2D6 substrate may increase the exposure of the CYP2D6 substrate. Intervention: Decrease the dosage of a CYP2D6 substrate if needed with concomitant sertraline hydrochloride use. Conversely, an increase in dosage of a CYP2D6 substrate may be needed if sertraline hydrochloride is discontinued. Examples: propafenone, flecainide, atomoxetine, desipramine, dextromethorphan, metoprolol, nebivolol, perphenazine, thioridazine, tolterodine, venlafaxine Phenytoin Clinical Impact: Phenytoin is a narrow therapeutic index drug. sertraline hydrochloride may increase phenytoin concentrations. Intervention: Monitor phenytoin levels when initiating or titrating sertraline hydrochloride. Reduce phenytoin dosage if needed. Examples: phenytoin, fosphenytoin Drugs that Prolong the QTc Interval Clinical Impact: The risk of QTc prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias (e.g., TdP) is increased with concomitant use of other drugs which prolong the QTc interval [See Warnings and Precautions (5.10) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Intervention: Pimozide is contraindicated for use with sertraline. Avoid the concomitant use of drugs known to prolong the QTc interval. Examples: Specific antipsychotics (e.g., ziprasidone, iloperidone, chlorpromazine, mesoridazine, droperidol); specific antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, gatifloxacin, moxifloxacin, sparfloxacin); Class 1A antiarrhythmic medications (e.g., quinidine, procainamide); Class III antiarrhythmics (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol); and others (e.g., pentamidine, levomethadyl acetate, methadone, halofantrine, mefloquine, dolasetron mesylate, probucol or tacrolimus). 7.2 Drugs Having No Clinically Important Interactions with Sertraline Hydrochloride Based on pharmacokinetic studies, no dosage adjustment of sertraline hydrochloride is necessary when used in combination with cimetidine. Additionally, no dosage adjustment is required for diazepam, lithium, atenolol, tolbutamide, digoxin, and drugs metabolized by CYP3A4, when sertraline hydrochloride is administered concomitantly [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.3 False-Positive Screening Tests for Benzodiazepines False-positive urine immunoassay screening tests for benzodiazepines have been reported in patients taking sertraline hydrochloride. This finding is due to lack of specificity of the screening tests. False-positive test results may be expected for several days following discontinuation of sertraline hydrochloride. Confirmatory tests, such as gas chromatography/mass spectrometry, will distinguish sertraline from benzodiazepines. (7.1, 12.3) CYP2D6 substrates: Reduce dosage of drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 (7.1, 12.3) 7.1 Clinically Significant Drug Interactions Table 5 includes clinically significant drug interactions with sertraline hydrochloride [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Table 5 7.2 Drugs Having No Clinically Important Interactions with Sertraline Hydrochloride Based on pharmacokinetic studies, no dosage adjustment of sertraline hydrochloride is necessary when used in combination with cimetidine. Additionally, no dosage adjustment is required for diazepam, lithium, atenolol, tolbutamide, digoxin, and drugs metabolized by CYP3A4, when sertraline hydrochloride is administered concomitantly [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Protein-bound drugs: Monitor for adverse reactions and reduce dosage of sertraline hydrochloride capsules or other protein-bound drugs (e.g., warfarin) as warranted ( 7.1 , 12.3 ) CYP2D6 substrates: Reduce dosage of drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 ( 7.1 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Clinically Significant Drug Interactions Table 4 includes clinically significant drug interactions with sertraline hydrochloride capsules [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 4. Clinically-Significant Drug Interactions with sertraline hydrochloride capsules Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of SSRIs, including sertraline hydrochloride capsules, and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Sertraline hydrochloride capsules is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ), Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Pimozide Clinical Impact: Increased plasma concentrations of pimozide, a drug with a narrow therapeutic index, may increase the risk of QTc prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias. Intervention: Concomitant use of pimozide and sertraline hydrochloride capsules is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of sertraline hydrochloride capsules with other serotonergic drugs (including other SSRIs, SNRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan, and St. John's Wort) increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of sertraline hydrochloride capsules and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants) Clinical Impact: The concurrent use of an antiplatelet agent or anticoagulant with sertraline hydrochloride capsules may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Intervention: Inform patients of the increased risk of bleeding associated with the concomitant use of sertraline hydrochloride capsules and antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Protein Clinical Impact: Sertraline is highly bound to plasma protein. The concomitant use of sertraline hydrochloride capsules with another drug that is highly bound to plasma protein may increase free concentrations of sertraline or other tightly-bound drugs in plasma [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: Monitor for adverse reactions and reduce dosage of sertraline hydrochloride capsules or other protein-bound drugs as warranted. Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: Sertraline hydrochloride capsules are a CYP2D6 inhibitor [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . The concomitant use of sertraline hydrochloride capsules with a CYP2D6 substrate may increase the exposure of the CYP2D6 substrate. Intervention: Decrease the dosage of a CYP2D6 substrate if needed with concomitant sertraline hydrochloride capsules use. Conversely, an increase in dosage of a CYP2D6 substrate may be needed if sertraline hydrochloride capsules are discontinued. Phenytoin Clinical Impact: Phenytoin is a narrow therapeutic index drug. Sertraline hydrochloride capsules may increase phenytoin concentrations. Intervention: Monitor phenytoin levels when initiating or titrating sertraline hydrochloride capsules. Drugs that Prolong the QTc Interval Clinical Impact: The risk of QTc prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias (e.g., TdP) is increased with concomitant use of sertraline hydrochloride capsules with other drugs which prolong the QTc interval [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2) ] . Intervention: Pimozide is contraindicated for use with sertraline hydrochloride capsules. 7.2 Drugs Having No Clinically Important Interactions with sertraline hydrochloride Based on pharmacokinetic studies with another sertraline hydrochloride formulation, no dosage adjustment of sertraline hydrochloride capsules is necessary when used in combination with cimetidine. Additionally, no dosage adjustment is required for diazepam, lithium, atenolol, tolbutamide, digoxin, and drugs metabolized by CYP3A4, when sertraline hydrochloride capsules is administered concomitantly [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.3 False-Positive Screening Tests for Benzodiazepines False-positive urine immunoassay screening tests for benzodiazepines have been reported in patients taking another sertraline hydrochloride product. False-positive test results may be expected for several days following discontinuation of sertraline hydrochloride capsules. ( 7.1 , 12.3 ) CYP2D6 substrates: Reduce dosage of drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 ( 7.1 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Clinically Significant Drug Interactions Table 5 includes clinically significant drug interactions with sertraline hydrochloride [See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3) ]. Table 5. Clinically-Significant Drug Interactions with Sertraline Hydrochloride Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of SSRIs including sertraline hydrochloride and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Sertraline hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [See Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ), Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Intervention: Concomitant use of pimozide and sertraline hydrochloride is contraindicated [See Contraindications ( 4 )] . If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of sertraline hydrochloride and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Examples: other SSRIs, SNRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, tryptophan, buspirone, amphetamines, and St. John's Wort Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants) Clinical Impact: The concurrent use of an antiplatelet agent or anticoagulant with sertraline hydrochloride may potentiate the risk of bleeding. The concomitant use of sertraline hydrochloride with another drug that is highly bound to plasma protein may increase free concentrations of sertraline hydrochloride or other tightly-bound drugs in plasma [See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Examples: warfarin Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: Sertraline hydrochloride is a CYP2D6 inhibitor [See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Examples: propafenone, flecainide, atomoxetine, desipramine, dextromethorphan, metoprolol, nebivolol, perphenazine, thoridazine, tolterodine, venlafaxine Phenytoin Clinical Impact: Phenytoin is a narrow therapeutic index drug. Examples: phenytoin, fosphenytoin Drugs that Prolong the QTc Interval C linical Impact: The risk of QTc prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias (e.g., TdP) is increased with concomitant use of other drugs which prolong the QTc interval [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . In tervention: Pimozide is contraindicated for use with sertraline. E xamples: Specific antipsychotics (e.g., ziprasidone, iloperidone, chlorpromazine, mesoridazine, droperidol); specific antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, gatifloxacin, moxifloxacin, sparfloxacin); Class 1A antiarrhythmic medications (e.g., quinidine, procainamide); Class III antiarrhythmics (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol); and others (e.g., pentamidine, levomethadyl acetate, methadone, halofantrine, mefloquine, dolasetron mesylate, probucol or tacrolimus). Additionally, no dosage adjustment is required for diazepam, lithium, atenolol, tolbutamide, digoxin, and drugs metabolized by CYP3A4, when sertraline hydrochloride is administered concomitantly [See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.3 False-Positive Screening Tests for Benzodiazepines False-positive urine immunoassay screening tests for benzodiazepines have been reported in patients taking sertraline hydrochloride tablets. False-positive test results may be expected for several days following discontinuation of sertraline hydrochloride tablets. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Protein-bound drugs: Monitor for adverse reactions and reduce dosage of sertraline hydrochloride or other protein-bound drugs (e.g., warfarin) as warranted. ( 7.1 , 12.3 ) • CYP2D6 substrates: Reduce dosage of drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 ( 7.1 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Clinically Significant Drug Interactions Table 5 includes clinically significant drug interactions with sertraline hydrochloride [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Examples: other SSRIs, SNRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone, St. John’s Wort Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants) Clinical Impact: The concurrent use of an antiplatelet agent or anticoagulant with sertraline hydrochloride may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Clinically-Significant Drug Interactions with Sertraline Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of SSRIs including sertraline hydrochloride and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Examples: selegiline, tranylcypromine, isocarboxazid, phenelzine, thioridazine, linezolid, methylene blue Pimozide Clinical Impact: Increased plasma concentrations of pimozide, a drug with a narrow therapeutic index, may increase the risk of QTc prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias. The concomitant use of sertraline with another drug that is highly bound to plasma protein may increase free concentrations of sertraline or other tightly-bound drugs in plasma [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Examples: warfarin Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: Sertraline hydrochloride is a CYP2D6 inhibitor [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Examples: phenytoin, fosphenytoin Drugs that Prolong the QTc Interval Clinical Impact The risk of QTc prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias (e.g., TdP) is increased with concomitant use of other drugs which prolong the QTc interval [See Warnings and Precautions (5.10) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Additionally, no dosage adjustment is required for diazepam, lithium, atenolol, tolbutamide, digoxin, and drugs metabolized by CYP3A4, when sertraline hydrochloride is administered concomitantly [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ].

=== COLLOIDAL OATMEAL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Skin Protectant Purpose - Skin Protectant Relief - Advanced 13-in-1 Extra Soothing Eczema & Dermatitis Cream Skin protectant Skin protectant
Indications: Uses Temporarily protects and helps relieve minor skin irritation and itching due to: rashes eczema poison ivy, oak or sumac insect bites Uses Temporarily protects and helps relieve minor skin irritation and itching due to: ●Eczema ●Rashes USES Temporarily protects and helps relieve minor skin irritations and itching due to rashes or eczema. Uses Temporarily protects and helps relieve minor skin irritation and itching due to eczema. Uses Temporarily protects and helps relieve minor skin irritation and itching due to rashes eczema poison ivy ,oak, or sumac insect bites Use Temporarily protects and helps relieve minor skin irritation and itching due to rashes and eczema Relief - Advanced 13-in-1 Extra Soothing Eczema & Dermatitis Cream Temporarily protects and helps relieve minor skin irritation and itching due to eczema and rashes. Temporarily protects and helps relieve minor skin irritations and itching due to rashes or eczema. Uses Temporarily protects and helps relieve minor skin irritation and itching due to: Eczema Rashes
Dosage: Directions Apply as needed Directions ● apply as needed DIRECTIONS Apply as needed to hands. Directions Apply as needed. Children under 3 months: ask a doctor. Relief - Advanced 13-in-1 Extra Soothing Eczema & Dermatitis Cream Apply as needed. For external use only. When using this product • do not get into eyes Apply generously to affected areas. For targeted areas on body, face and hands.
Warnings: Warnings For external use only. Do not get into eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens, symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. When using this product ● do not get into eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if ● condition worsens ● symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days. Keep out of reach of children. When using this product avoid contact with eyes. if contact occurs, rinse thoroughly with water. When using this product do not get into eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if: Conditions worsen Symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days. Keep out of reach of children . When using this product do not get into eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if conditions worsens symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. For external use only Relief - Advanced 13-in-1 Extra Soothing Eczema & Dermatitis Cream For external use only. When using this product - do not get into eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days. For external use only.

=== DIMETHICONE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Use Help prevent and temporarily protects chafed, chapped, or cracked skin. Purpose Antigas Purpose Skin Protectant Purpose Antiflatulent (Antigas) PURPOSES Anti-diarrheal Anti-gas Helps prevent, temporarily protects and helps relieve chafed, chapped or cracked skin Helps prevent and protect from the drying effects of wind and cold weather Temporarily protects minor cuts, scrapes, burns Purpose Antacid Antacid Antigas
Indications: Baby XtraCare® Oatmeal Daily Moisturizing Lotion Lightly Scented Dimethicon Skin Protectant with Natural Oat Extract Helps Soothe & Soften Baby's Skin 12 FL OZ (354 mL) Uses For the relief of pressure and bloating commonly referred to as gas Uses for the relief of pressure, bloating, and fullness commonly referred to as gas Uses helps protect from minor skin irritations associated with perineal dermatitis temporarily protects and helps relieve chapped or cracked skin helps protect from the drying effects of wind and cold weather Uses relieves bloating, pressure, or fullness commonly referred to as gas USE(S) relieves: pressure bloating symptoms referred to as gas USE(S) relieves symptoms of diarrhea plus bloating, pressure and cramps, commonly referred to as gas Directions Apply as needed Uses relieves: heartburn acid indigestion pressure, bloating and discomfort commonly referred to as gas
Dosage: Directions Apply liberally as often as needed. Directions adults: swallow with water 1 or 2 softgels as needed after meals and at bedtime do not exceed 2 softgels in 24 hours except under the advice and supervision of a physician Directions adults: swallow with water 1 or 2 softgels as needed after meals and at bedtime do not exceed 2 softgels in 24 hours except under the advice and supervision of a physican Directions Open package as designated Remove fresh cloths and thoroughly cleanse soiled area as needed Dispose of cloths in waste receptacle, do not flush in toilet Single Patient Use only Directions swalow one or two softgels as needed after a meal do not exceed two softgels per day except under the advice and supervision of a physician DIRECTIONS chew 2 to 4 tablets thoroughly as needed after meals and at bedtime do not exceed 6 tablets per day unless directed by a physician Directions adults : swallow with water 1 or 2 softgels as needed after meals and at bedtime do not exceed 4 softgels in 24 hours except under the advise and supervision of a physician DIRECTIONS • drink plenty of clear fluids to help prevent dehydration caused by diarrhea • take only on an empty stomach (1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal) • take with a full (8 oz.) glass of water • find right dose on chart below. If possible, use weight to dose; otherwise, use age. adults and children 12 years and over 2 tablets after the first loose stool; 1 tablet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 4 tablets in 24 hours children 9-11 years (60-95 lbs) 1 tablet after the first loose stool; 1/2 tablet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 3 tablets in 24 hours children 6-8 years (48-59 lbs) 1 tablet after the first loose stool; 1/2 tablet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 2 tablets in 24 hours children 2-5 years (34 to 47 lbs) ask a doctor children under 2 years (up to 33 lbs) do not use Apply as needed Directions chew 2-4 tablets completely as symptoms occur or as directed by a doctor. Do not swallow tablets whole.
Warnings: Warnings For extenal use only. When using this product avoid contact with eyes. In case of eye contact, flush with water. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens. Symptoms last more than 7days or clear up and occur again within a few days. Warnings If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. Warnings For external use only Do not use on deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns When using this product do not get into eyes Stop use and ask a doctor condition worsens symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Stop use and ask a doctor if condition persists. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. WARNINGS . WARNINGS Allergy alert: Do not use if you have ever had a rash or other allergic reaction to loperamide hydrochloride Heart alert: Taking more than directed can cause serious heart problems or death Warnings For external use only Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Do not use on deep or puncture wounds, animal bites, serious burns When using this product do not get into eyes Stop use and ask doctor if condition worsens, symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Warnings Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are now taking a prescription drug. Antacids may interact with certain prescription drugs. When using this product Do not take more than 8 tablets in a 24-hour period Do not use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks Keep out of reach of children.

=== ROSUVASTATIN CALCIUM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Rosuvastatin tablets is indicated: To reduce the risk major adverse cardiovascular (CV) events (CV death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or an arterial revascularization procedure) in adults without established coronary heart disease who are at increased risk of CV disease based on age, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) ≥2 mg/L, and at least one additional CV risk factor. As an adjunct to diet to: Reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in adults with primary hyperlipidemia. Reduce LDL-C and slow the progression of atherosclerosis in adults. Reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients aged 8 years and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). As an adjunct to other LDL-C-lowering therapies, or alone if such treatments are unavailable, to reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients aged 7 years and older with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH). As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with: Primary dysbetalipoproteinemia. Hypertriglyceridemia. Rosuvastatin tablets is an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated: ( 1 ) To reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular (CV) events (CV death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or an arterial revascularization procedure) in adults without established coronary heart disease who are at increased risk of CV disease based on age, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) ≥ 2 mg/L, and at least one additional CV risk factor. As an adjunct to diet to reduce LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia. to reduce LDL-C and slow the progression of atherosclerosis in adults. to reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients aged 8 years and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Rosuvastatin tablets are indicated: To reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular (CV) events (CV death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or an arterial revascularization procedure) in adults without established coronary heart disease who are at increased risk of CV disease based on age, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) ≥2 mg/L, and at least one add itional CV risk factor. As an adjunct to diet to: O Reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in adults with primary hyperlipidemia. O Reduce LDL-C and slow the progression of atherosclerosis in adults. O Reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients aged 8 years and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with: O Primary dysbetalipoproteinemia. O Hypertriglyceridemia. Rosuvastatin tablets are an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated: ( 1 ) To reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular (CV) events (CV death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or an arterial revascularization procedure) in adults without established coronary heart disease who are at increased risk of CV disease based on age, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) ≥2 mg/L, and at least one additional CV risk factor. As an adjunct to diet to: O reduce LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Pediatric use information for patients 7 to 17 years of age is approved for AstraZeneca’s CRESTOR (rosuvastatin calcium) tablets. However, due to AstraZeneca’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information. Rosuvastatin tablets is an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor indicated for: adult patients with hypertriglyceridemia as an adjunct to diet ( 1. 3) adult patients with primary dysbetalipoproteinemia (Type III hyperlipoproteinemia) as an adjunct to diet ( 1. 4) adult patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) to reduce LDL-C, total-C, and ApoB ( 1. 5)Limitations of use ( 1. 8): Rosuvastatin tablets has not been studied in Fredrickson Type I and V dyslipidemias. 1.3 Hypertriglyceridemia Rosuvastatin tablets are indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet for the treatment of adult patients with hypertriglyceridemia. 1.4 Primary Dysbetalipoproteinemia (Type III Hyperlipoproteinemia) Rosuvastatin tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adult patients with primary dysbetalipoproteinemia (Type III Hyperlipoproteinemia). 1.5 Adult Patients with Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia Rosuvastatin tablets are indicated as adjunctive therapy to other lipid-lowering treatments (e.g., LDL apheresis) or alone if such treatments are unavailable to reduce LDL–C, Total–C, and ApoB in adult patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. 1.8 Limitations of Use Rosuvastatin tablets has not been studied in Fredrickson Type I and V dyslipidemias. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pediatric use information for patients 7 to 17 years of age is approved for AstraZeneca’s CRESTOR (rosuvastatin calcium) tablets. Rosuvastatin tablets are an HMG Co‑A reductase inhibitor indicated for: adult patients with hypertriglyceridemia as an adjunct to diet (1.3) adult patients with primary dysbetalipoproteinemia (Type III hyperlipoproteinemia) as an adjunct to diet (1.4) adult patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) to reduce LDL‑C, total-C, and ApoB (1.5) Limitations of use (1.8) : Rosuvastatin tablets have not been studied in Fredrickson Type I and V dyslipidemias. 1.5 Adult Patients with Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia Rosuvastatin tablets are indicated as adjunctive therapy to other lipid-lowering treatments (e.g., LDL apheresis) or alone if such treatments are unavailable to reduce LDL-C, Total-C, and ApoB in adult patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. 1.8 Limitations of Use Rosuvastatin tablets have not been studied in Fredrickson Type I and V dyslipidemias. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Rosuvastatin tablets is indicated: To reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular (CV) events (CV death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or an arterial revascularization procedure) in adults without established coronary heart disease who are at increased risk of CV disease based on age, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) ≥2 mg/L, and at least one additional CV risk factor. Rosuvastatin tablets is an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated: ( 1 ) To reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular (CV) events (CV death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or an arterial revascularization procedure) in adults without established coronary heart disease who are at increased risk of CV disease based on age, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) ≥2 mg/L, and at least one additional CV risk factor. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Rosuvastatin tablets are indicated: To reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular (CV) events (CV death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or an arterial revascularization procedure) in adults without established coronary heart disease who are at increased risk of CV disease based on age, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) ≥2 mg/L, and at least one additional CV risk factor. As an adjunct to diet to: reduce LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Rosuvastatin tablets are indicated: • To reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular (CV) events (CV death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or an arterial revascularization procedure) in adults without established coronary heart disease who are at increased risk of CV disease based on age, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) ≥2 mg/L, and at least one additional CV risk factor. • As an adjunct to diet to: • Reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in adults with primary hyperlipidemia. • Reduce LDL-C and slow the progression of atherosclerosis in adults. • Reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients aged 8 years and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). • As an adjunct to other LDL-C-lowering therapies, or alone if such treatments are unavailable, to reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients aged 7 years and older with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH). • As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with: • Primary dysbetalipoproteinemia. • Hypertriglyceridemia. Rosuvastatin tablets are an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated: ( 1) • To reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular (CV) events (CV death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or an arterial revascularization procedure) in adults without established coronary heart disease who are at increased risk of CV disease based on age, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) ≥2 mg/L, and at least one additional CV risk factor. • As an adjunct to diet to: • reduce LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Rosuvastatin tablets are indicated: • To reduce the risk of stroke, myocardial infarction, and arterial revascularization procedures in adults without established coronary heart disease who are at increased risk of cardiovascular (CV) disease based on age, hsCRP ≥2 mg/L, and at least one additional CV risk factor. • Reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and slow the progression of atherosclerosis in adults. • As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with: o Primary dysbetalipoproteinemia. Rosuvastatin tablets are an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated: ( 1 ) • To reduce the risk of stroke, myocardial infarction, and arterial revascularization procedures in adults without established coronary heart disease who are at increased risk of cardiovascular (CV) disease based on age, hsCRP ≥2 mg/L, and at least one additional CV risk factor. • As an adjunct to diet to reduce LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia. • As an adjunct to diet to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and slow the progression of atherosclerosis in adults. • As an adjunct to diet to reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients aged 8 years and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Rosuvastatin tablets are an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor indicated for: adult patients with primary hyperlipidemia and mixed dyslipidemia as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated total-C, LDL-C, ApoB, nonHDL-C, and TG levels and to increase HDLC ( 1.1 ) pediatric patients 8 to 17 years of age with heterozygous familial hypercholesterotemia (HeFH] to reduce elevated total-C, LDL-C and ApoB after failing an adequate trial of diet therapy ( 1.2 ) adult patients with hypertriglyceridemia as an adjunct to diet ( 1.3 ) adult patients with primary dysbetalipoproteinemia [Type III hyperlipoproteinemia) as an adjunct to diet ( 1.4 ) adult patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) to reduce LOL-G, total-G, and ApoB ( 1.5 ) slowing the progression of atherosclerosis as part of a treatment strategy lo lower total-C and LDL-C as an adjunct to diet ( 1.6 ) risk reduction of MI, stroke, and arterial revascularization procedures in patients without clinically evident CHD, but with multiple risk factors ( 1.7 ) Limitations of use ( 1.8 ): Rosuvastatin tablets have not been studied in Fredrickson Type I and V dyslipidemias. Pediatric use information for patients 7 to 17 years of age is approved for AstraZeneca's CRESTOR (rosuvastatin calcium) tablets. However, due to AstraZeneca's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Rosuvastatin tablets are indicated: • To reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular (CV) events (CV death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or an arterial revascularization procedure) in adults without established coronary heart disease who are at increased risk of CV disease based on age, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) ≥2 mg/L, and at least one additional CV risk factor. • As an adjunct to diet to: o Reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in adults with primary hyperlipidemia. Rosuvastatin Calcium is an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated: ( 1 ) • To reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular (CV) events (CV death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or an arterial revascularization procedure) in adults without established coronary heart disease who are at increased risk of CV disease based on age, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) ≥2 mg/L, and at least one additional CV risk factor. • As an adjunct to diet to: o reduce LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take orally with or without food, at any time of day. ( 2.1 ) Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating rosuvastatin tablets, and adjust dosage if necessary. ( 2.1 ) Adults : Recommended dosage range is 5 to 40 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) Pediatric Patients with HeFH : Recommended dosage range is 5 to 10 mg once daily for patients aged 8 to less than 10 years of age, and 5 to 20 mg once daily for patients aged 10 years and older. ( 2.2) Pediatric Patients with HoFH : Recommended dosage is 20 mg once daily for patients aged 7 years and older. ( 2.2 ) Asian Patients : Initiate at 5 mg once daily. Consider risks and benefits of treatment if not adequately controlled at doses up to 20 mg once daily. ( 2.4 ) Patients with Severe Renal Impairment (not on hemodialysis) : Initiate at 5 mg once daily; do not exceed 10 mg once daily. ( 2.5 ) See full prescribing information for rosuvastatin tablets dosage and administration modifications due to drug interactions. ( 2.6 ) 2.1 General Dosage and Administration Information Administer rosuvastatin tablets orally as a single dose at any time of day, with or without food. Swallow the tablets whole. Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating rosuvastatin tablets, and adjust the dosage if necessary. If a dose is missed, advise patients not take an extra dose. Resume treatment with the next dose. When taking rosuvastatin tablets with an aluminum and magnesium hydroxide combination antacid, administer rosuvastatin tablets at least 2 hours before the antacid [ see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 ) ]. 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients The dosage range for rosuvastatin tablets is 5 to 40 mg orally once daily. The recommended dose of rosuvastatin tablets depends on a patient's indication for usage, LDL-C, and individual risk for CV events. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients Dosage in Pediatric Patients 8 Years of Age and Older with HeFH The recommended dosage range is 5 mg to 10 mg orally once daily in patients aged 8 years to less than 10 years and 5 mg to 20 mg orally once daily in patients aged 10 years and older. Dosage in Pediatric Patients 7 Years of Age and Older with HoFH The recommended dosage is 20 mg orally once daily. 2.4 Dosing in Asian Patients Initiate rosuvastatin tablets at 5 mg once daily due to increased rosuvastatin plasma concentrations. Consider the risks and benefits of rosuvastatin tablets when treating Asian patients not adequately controlled at doses up to 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.8 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2.5 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) not on hemodialysis, the recommended starting dosage is 5 mg once daily and should not exceed 10 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. There are no dosage adjustment recommendations for patients with mild and moderate renal impairment. 2.6 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Rosuvastatin Tablets Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Table 1 displays dosage modifications for rosuvastatin tablets due to drug interactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. Table 1: Rosuvastatin Tablets Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Concomitantly Used Drug Rosuvastatin Tablets Dosage Modifications Cyclosporine Do not exceed 5 mg once daily. Teriflunomide Do not exceed 10 mg once daily. Enasidenib Do not exceed 10 mg once daily. Capmatinib Do not exceed 10 mg once daily. Fostamatinib Do not exceed 20 mg once daily. Febuxostat Do not exceed 20 mg once daily. Gemfibrozil Avoid concomitant use. If used concomitantly, initiate at 5 mg once daily and do not exceed 10 mg once daily. Tafamidis Avoid concomitant use. If used concomitantly, initiate at 5 mg once daily and do not exceed 20 mg once daily. Antiviral Medications Sofbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir Ledipasvir/sofosbuvir Concomitant use not recommended. o Simeprevir o Dasabuvir/ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir o Elbasvir/Grazoprevir o Sofosbuvir/Velpatasvir o Glecaprevir/Pibrentasvir o Atazanavir/Ritonavir o Lopinavir/Ritonavir Initiate at 5 mg once daily. Do not exceed 10 mg once daily. Darolutamide Do not exceed 5 mg once daily. Regorafenib Do not exceed 10 mg once daily. Rosuvastatin Tablets Administration Modifications Due to Drug Interactions When taking rosuvastatin tablets with an aluminum and magnesium hydroxide combination antacid, administer rosuvastatin tablets at least 2 hours before the antacid [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )] . ( 2.1 ) Adults: Recommended dosage range is 5 to 40 mg once daily. ( 2.2 ) Pediatric Patients with HoFH : Recommended dosage is 20 mg once daily for patients aged 7 years and older. ( 2.2 ) Asian Patients: Initiate at 5 mg once daily. ( 2.4 ) Patients with Severe Renal Impairment (not on hemodialysis): Initiate at 5 mg once daily; do not exceed 10 mg once daily. If a dose is missed, advise patients not to take an extra dose. When taking rosuvastatin tablets with an aluminum and magnesium hydroxide combination antacid, administer rosuvastatin tablets at least 2 hours before the antacid [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ]. 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients The dosage range for rosuvastatin tablets are 5 to 40 mg orally once daily. The recommended dose of rosuvastatin tablets depends on a patient’s indication for usage, LDL-­C, and individual risk for CV events. Consider the risks and benefits of rosuvastatin tablets when treating Asian patients not adequately controlled at doses up to 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.8) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.5 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) not on hemodialysis, the recommended starting dosage is 5 mg once daily and should not exceed 10 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. 2.6 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Table 1 displays dosage modifications for rosuvastatin tablets due to drug interactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. Table 1: Rosuvastatin Tablets Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Concomitantly Used Drug Rosuvastatin Dosage Modifications Cyclosporine Do not exceed 5 mg once daily. Antiviral Medications o Sofbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir o Ledipasvir/sofosbuvir Concomitant use not recommended. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION • Rosuvastatin tablets can be taken with or without food, at any time of day. ( 2.1 ) • Dose range: 5 to 40 mg once daily. Use 40 mg dose only for patients not reaching LDL-C goal with 20 mg. ( 2.1 ) • Adult HoFH : Starting dose 20 mg/day. ( 2. 1) 2.1 General Dosing Information The dose range for rosuvastatin tablets in adults is 5 to 40 mg orally once daily. The usual starting dose is 10 to 20 mg once daily. The usual starting dose in adult patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia is 20 mg once daily. The maximum rosuvastatin tablets dose of 40 mg should be used only for those patients who have not achieved their LDL-C goal utilizing the 20 mg dose [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. Rosuvastatin tablets can be administered as a single dose at any time of day, with or without food. The tablet should be swallowed whole. When initiating rosuvastatin tablets therapy or switching from another HMG–CoA reductase inhibitor therapy, the appropriate rosuvastatin tablets starting dose should first be utilized, and only then titrated according to the patient’s response and individualized goal of therapy. After initiation or upon titration of rosuvastatin tablets, lipid levels should be analyzed within 2 to 4 weeks and the dosage adjusted accordingly. Pediatric use information for patients 7 to 17 years of age is approved for AstraZeneca’s CRESTOR (rosuvastatin calcium) tablets. However, due to AstraZeneca’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information. 2.3 Dosing in Asian Patients In Asian patients, consider initiation of rosuvastatin tablets therapy with 5 mg once daily due to increased rosuvastatin plasma concentrations.The increased systemic exposure should be taken into consideration when treating Asian patients not adequately controlled at doses up to 20 mg/day. [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.8) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.4 Use with Concomitant Therapy Patients taking cyclosporine and darolutamide The dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 5 mg once daily [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7.4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] Patients taking gemfibrozil Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin tablets with gemfibrozil. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, initiate rosuvastatin tablets at 5 mg once daily. The dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.2 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Patients taking regorafenib Concomitant use of rosuvastatin tablets and regorafenib, the dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Patients taking atazanavir and ritonavir, lopinavir and ritonavir, simeprevir or combination of dasabuvir/ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, elbasvir/grazoprevir, sofosbuvir/velpatasvir and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir Initiate rosuvastatin tablets therapy with 5 mg once daily. The dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7.3 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 2.5 Dosing in Patients with Severe Renal Impairment For patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr <30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) not on hemodialysis, dosing of rosuvastatin tablets should be started at 5 mg once daily and not exceed 10 mg once daily [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Rosuvastatin tablets can be taken with or without food, at any time of day. (2.1) Dose range: 5 to 40 mg once daily. Use 40 mg dose only for patients not reaching LDL‑C goal with 20 mg. (2.1) Adult HoFH: Starting dose 20 mg/day (2.1) 2.1 General Dosing Information The dose range for rosuvastatin tablet in adults is 5 to 40 mg orally once daily. The maximum rosuvastatin tablet dose of 40 mg should be used only for those patients who have not achieved their LDL-C goal utilizing the 20 mg dose [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. When initiating rosuvastatin therapy or switching from another HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor therapy, the appropriate rosuvastatin tablets starting dose should first be utilized, and only then titrated according to the patient’s response and individualized goal of therapy. After initiation or upon titration of rosuvastatin, lipid levels should be analyzed within 2 to 4 weeks and the dosage adjusted accordingly. 2.3 Dosing in Asian Patients In Asian patients, consider initiation of rosuvastatin therapy with 5 mg once daily due to increased rosuvastatin plasma concentrations. The increased systemic exposure should be taken into consideration when treating Asian patients not adequately controlled at doses up to 20 mg/day [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.8) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.4 Use with Concomitant Therapy Patients taking cyclosporine and darolutamide The dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 5 mg once daily [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Drug Interactions (7.1) , Drug Interactions (7.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Patients taking gemfibrozil Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin with gemfibrozil. The dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1), Drug Interactions (7.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Patients taking regorafenib Concomitant use of rosuvastatin tablets and regorafenib, the dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1), Drug Interactions (7.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Patients taking atazanavir and ritonavir, lopinavir and ritonavir, simeprevir or combination of dasabuvir/ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, elbasvir/grazoprevir, sofosbuvir/velpatasvir and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir Initiate rosuvastatin therapy with 5 mg once daily. The dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Drug Interactions (7.3), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.5 Dosing in Patients with Severe Renal Impairment For patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr <30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) not on hemodialysis, dosing of rosuvastatin tablets should be started at 5 mg once daily and not exceed 10 mg once daily [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. (2.1 ) Pediatric Patients with HeFH: Recommended dosage range is 5 to 10 mg once daily for patients aged 8 to less than 10 years of age, and 5 to 20 mg once daily for patients aged 10 years and older. (2.2 ) Pediatric Patients with HoFH: Recommended dosage is 20 mg once daily for patients aged 7 years and older. (2.4 ) Patients with Severe Renal Impairment (not on hemodialysis): Initiate at 5 mg once daily; do not exceed 10 mg once daily. When taking rosuvastatin tablets with an aluminum and magnesium hydroxide combination antacid, administer rosuvastatin tablets at least 2 hours before the antacid [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )]. The recommended dose of rosuvastatin tablets depends on a patient’s indication for usage, LDL-C, and individual risk for CV events. 2.5 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment (CLcr less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m2) not on hemodialysis, the recommended starting dosage is 5 mg once daily and should not exceed 10 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. 2.6 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Table 1 displays dosage modifications for Rosuvastatin tablets due to drug interactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. Simeprevir Dasabuvir/ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir Elbasvir/Grazoprevir Sofosbuvir/Velpatasvir Glecaprevir/Pibrentasvir Atazanavir/Ritonavir Lopinavir/Ritonavir Initiate at 5 mg once daily. (2.1) Pediatric Patients with HeFH : Recommended dosage range is 5 to 10 mg once daily for patients aged 8 to less than 10 years of age, and 5 to 20 mg once daily for patients aged 10 years and older. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Take orally with or without food, at any time of day. ( 2.1) Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating rosuvastatin tablets, and adjust dosage if necessary. ( 2.1) Adults: Recommended dosage range is 5 to 40 mg once daily. ( 2.1) Pediatric Patients with HeFH:Recommended dosage range is 5 to 10 mg once daily for patients aged 8 to less than 10 years of age, and 5 to 20 mg once daily for patients aged 10 years and older. ( 2.2) Pediatric Patients with HoFH:Recommended dosage is 20 mg once daily for patients aged 7 years and older. ( 2.2) Asian Patients:Initiate at 5 mg once daily. ( 2.4) 2.1 General Dosing Information • Administer rosuvastatin tablets orally as a single dose at any time of day, with or without food. • Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating rosuvastatin tablets, and adjust the dosage if necessary. • If a dose is missed, advise patients not to take an extra dose. • When taking rosuvastatin tablets with an aluminum and magnesium hydroxide combination antacid, administer rosuvastatin tablets at least 2 hours before the antacid [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2)]. 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients • The dosage range for rosuvastatin tablets is 5 to 40 mg orally once daily. • The recommended dose of rosuvastatin tablets depends on a patient’s indication for usage, LDLC, and individual risk for CV events. Consider the risks and benefits of rosuvastatin tablets when treating Asian patients not adequately controlled at doses up to 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.8), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2.5 Dosing in Patients with Severe Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment (CL crless than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2) not on hemodialysis, the recommended starting dosage is 5 mg once daily and should not exceed 10 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]. 2.8 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Table 1 displays dosage modifications for rosuvastatin tablets due to drug interactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Drug Interactions (7.1)]. 1 ( 2.5 , 5.1 , 8.6 ) See full prescribing information for rosuvastatin tablets dosage and administration modifications due to drug interactions. ( 2.6 ) 2.1 General Dosage and Administration Information • Administer rosuvastatin tablets orally as a single dose at any time of day, with or without food. • If a dose is missed, advise patients not take an extra dose. • The recommended dose of rosuvastatin tablets depends on a patient’s indication for usage, LDL-C, and individual risk for cardiovascular events. Consider the risks and benefits of rosuvastatin tablets when treating Asian patients not adequately controlled at doses up to 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.8 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.5 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment (CLcr <30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) not on hemodialysis, the recommended starting dosage is 5 mg once daily and should not exceed 10 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. 2.6 Dosage and Administration Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Rosuvastatin Tablets Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Table 1 displays dosage modifications for rosuvastatin tablets due to drug interactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. Rosuvastatin Tablets Administration Modifications Due to Drug Interactions When taking rosuvastatin tablets with an aluminum and magnesium hydroxide combination antacid, administer rosuvastatin tablets at least 2 hours before the antacid [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Rosuvasta1in tablets can be taken with or without food, at any time of day. ( 2.1 ) Dose range: 5 to 40 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) Adult HoFH: Starting dose 20 mg/day. ( 2.1 ) Pediatric patients with HeFH: 5 to 10 mg/day for patients 8 to less than 10 years of age, and 5 to 20 mg/day for patients 10 to 17 years of age. 2.1 General Dosing Information The dose range for rosuvastatin tablets in adults is 5 to 40 mg orally once daily. The maximum rosuvastatin dose of 40 mg should be used only for those patients who have not achieved their LDL-C goal utilizing the 20 mg dose [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. When initiating rosuvastatin tablets therapy or switching from another HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor therapy, the appropriate rosuvastatin tablets starting dose should first be utilized, and only then titrated according to the patient's response and individualized goal of therapy. 2.2 Pediatric Dosing In heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, !he recommended dose range is 5 to 10 mg orally once daily in patients 8 to less than 10 years of age, and 510 20 mg orally once daily in patients 10 to 17 years of age. Pediatric use information for patients 7 to 17 years of age is approved for AstraZeneca's CRESTOR (rosuvastatin calcium) tablets. However, due to AstraZeneca's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information. 2.3 Dosing in Asian Patients In Asian patients, consider initiation of rosuvastatin tablets therapy with 5 mg once daily due to increased rosuvastatin plasma concentrations. The increased systemic exposure should be taken into consideration when treating Asian patients not adequately controlled at doses up to 20 mg/day. [see Use in Specific Populations (8.8) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2.4 Use with Concomitant Therapy Patients taking cyclosporine and darolutamide The dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 5 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Drug Interactions (7.1) , Drug Interactions (7.4) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Patients taking gemfibrozil Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin tablets with gemfibrozil. The dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and, Drug Interactions (7.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Patients taking regorafenib Concomitant use of rosuvastatin tablets and regorafenib, the dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Drug Interactions (7.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Patients taking atazanavir and ritonavir, lopinavir and ritonavir, simeprevir or combination of dasabuvir/ ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, elbasvir/grazoprevir, sofosbuvir/velpatasvir and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir Initiate rosuvastatin tablets therapy with 5 mg once daily. The dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Drug Interactions (7.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.5 Dosing in Patients with Severe Renal Impairment For patients with severe renal impairment (CL <30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) not on hemodialysis, dosing of rosuvastatin tablets should be started at 5 mg once daily and not exceed 10 mg cr once daily [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. ( 2.1 ) Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating rosuvastatin calcium, and adjust dosage if necessary. ( 2.1 ) Pediatric Patients with HeFH: Recommended dosage range is 5 to 10 mg once daily for patients aged 8 to less than 10 years of age, and 5 to 20 mg once daily for patients aged 10 years and older. ( 2.2 ) Pediatric Patients with HoFH: Recommended dosage is 20 mg once daily for patients aged 7 years and older. ( 2.5 ) See full prescribing information for rosuvastatin calcium dosage and administration modifications due to drug interactions. ( 2.6 ) 2.1 General Dosage and Administration Information • Administer rosuvastatin calcium orally as a single dose at any time of day, with or without food. • Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating rosuvastatin calcium, and adjust the dosage if necessary. • When taking rosuvastatin tablets with an aluminum and magnesium hydroxide combination antacid, administer rosuvastatin tablets at least 2 hours before the antacid [see Drug Interactions (7. 2) ] . 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients The dosage range for rosuvastatin calcium is 5 to 40 mg orally once daily. The recommended dose of rosuvastatin calcium depends on a patient’s indication for usage, LDL-C, and individual risk for CV events. 2.4 Dosing in Asian Patients Initiate rosuvastatin calcium at 5 mg once daily due to increased rosuvastatin plasma concentrations. Consider the risks and benefits of rosuvastatin calcium when treating Asian patients not adequately controlled at doses up to 20 mg once daily [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.8) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.5 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) not on hemodialysis, the recommended starting dosage is 5 mg once daily and should not exceed 10 mg once daily [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. 2.6 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Table 1 displays dosage modifications for rosuvastatin calcium due to drug interactions [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. Table 1: Rosuvastatin calcium Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Concomitantly Used Drug Rosuvastatin calcium Dosage Modifications Cyclosporine Do not exceed 5 mg once daily. Rosuvastatin Calcium Administration Modifications Due to Drug Interactions When taking rosuvastatin calcium with an aluminum and magnesium hydroxide combination antacid, administer rosuvastatin calcium at least 2 hours before the antacid [ see Drug Interactions (7.2) ].
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rosuvastatin tablets is contraindicated in the following conditions: Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Hypersensitivity to rosuvastatin or any excipients in rosuvastatin tablets. Hypersensitivity reactions including rash, pruritus, urticaria, and angioedema have been reported with rosuvastatin [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis. ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to rosuvastatin or any excipients in rosuvastatin tablets. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rosuvastatin tablets are contraindicated in the following conditions: Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Hypersensitivity reactions including rash, pruritus, urticaria, and angioedema have been reported with rosuvastatin tablets [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rosuvastatin tablets is contraindicated in the following conditions: • Patients with a known hypersensitivity to any component of this product. Hypersensitivity reactions including rash, pruritus,urticaria, and angioedema have been reported with rosuvastatin tablets [ see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. • Patients with active liver disease, which may include unexplained persistent elevations of hepatic transaminase levels [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ]. • Pregnancy [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1, 8.3 )] • Lactation. Limited data indicate that rosuvastatin tablets is present in human milk. Because statins have the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants, women who require rosuvastatin tablets treatment should not breastfeed their infants [see Use in Specific Populations (8.2) ]. • Known hypersensitivity to product components ( 4 ) • Active liver disease, which may include unexplained persistent elevations in hepatic transaminase levels ( 4 ) • Pregnancy ( 4 , 8.1 , 8.3) • Lactation ( 4 , 8.2) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rosuvastatin tablets are contraindicated in the following conditions: Patients with a known hypersensitivity to any component of this product. Hypersensitivity reactions including rash, pruritus, urticaria, and angioedema have been reported with rosuvastatin [ see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Patients with active liver disease, which may include unexplained persistent elevations of hepatic transaminase levels [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.1 , 8.3 )]. Lactation. Limited data indicate that rosuvastatin is present in human milk. Because statins have the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants, women who require rosuvastatin treatment should not breastfeed their infants [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.2) ]. Known hypersensitivity to product components (4) Active liver disease, which may include unexplained persistent elevations in hepatic transaminase levels (4) Pregnancy ( 4 , 8.1 , 8.3 ) Lactation ( 4 , 8.2 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rosuvastatin tablets is contraindicated in the following conditions: Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Hypersensitivity reactions including rash, pruritus, urticaria, and angioedema have been reported with rosuvastatin tablets [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. ( 4) Hypersensitivity to rosuvastatin or any excipients in rosuvastatin tablets. ( 4) Hypersensitivity reactions including rash, pruritus, urticaria, and angioedema have been reported with rosuvastatin [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rosuvastatin is contraindicated in the following conditions: • Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. • Hypersensitivity to rosuvastatin or any excipients in rosuvastatin. Hypersensitivity reactions including rash, pruritus, urticaria, and angioedema have been reported with rosuvastatin [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. (4) Hypersensitivity to rosuvastatin or any excipients in rosuvastatin. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rosuvastatin tablets are contraindicated in the following conditions: • Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. • Hypersensitivity to rosuvastatin or any excipients in rosuvastatin tablets. Hypersensitivity reactions including rash, pruritus, urticaria, and angioedema have been reported with rosuvastatin tablets [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . Hypersensitivity reactions including rash, pruritus, urticaria, and angioedema have been reported with rosuvastatin tablets [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Patients with active liver disease, which may include unexplained persistent elevations of hepatic transaminase levels [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Pregnancy [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1 , 8.3) ]. Because statins have the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants, women who require rosuvastatin treatment should not breastfeed their infants [see Use in Specific Populations (8.2) ]. Known hypersensitivity to product components ( 4 ) Active liver disease, which may include unexplained persistent elevations in hepatic transaminase levels ( 4 ) Pregnancy ( 4 , 8.1 , 8.3 ) Lactation ( 4 , 8.2 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rosuvastatin calcium is contraindicated in the following conditions Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Hypersensitivity to rosuvastatin or any excipients in rosuvastatin calcium. Hypersensitivity reactions including rash, pruritus, urticaria, and angioedema have been reported with rosuvastatin calcium [ see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to rosuvastatin or any excipients in rosuvastatin calcium.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for details regarding concomitant use of rosuvastatin with other drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. ( 7.1 ) Aluminum and Magnesium Hydroxide Combination Antacids : Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before the antacid. ( 7.2 ) Warfarin : Obtain INR prior to starting rosuvastatin. Monitor INR frequently until stable upon initiation, dose titration or discontinuation. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Rosuvastatin Rosuvastatin is a substrate of CYP2C9 and transporters (such as OATP1B1, BCRP). Rosuvastatin plasma levels can be significantly increased with concomitant administration of inhibitors of CYP2C9 and transporters. Table 5 includes a list of drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly with rosuvastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 5: Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Rosuvastatin Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Cyclosporine increased rosuvastatin exposure 7-fold. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of cyclosporine or gemfibrozil with rosuvastatin. Intervention: If used concomitantly, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 5 mg once daily. Teriflunomide Clinical Impact: Teriflunomide increased rosuvastatin exposure more than 2.5-fold. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use. Intervention: In patients taking teriflunomide, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily. Enasidenib Clinical Impact: Enasidenib increased rosuvastatin exposure more than 2.4-fold. Intervention: In patients taking enasidenib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily. Capmatinib Clinical Impact: Capmatinib increased rosuvastatin exposure more than 2.1-fold. Intervention: In patients taking capmatinib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily. Fostamatinib Clinical Impact: Fostamatinib increased rosuvastatin exposure more than 2.0-fold. Intervention: In patients taking fostamatinib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 20 mg once daily. Febuxostat Clinical Impact: Febuxostat increased rosuvastatin exposure more than 1.9-fold. Intervention: In patients taking febuxostat, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 20 mg once daily. Gemfibrozil Clinical Impact: Gemfibrozil significantly increased rosuvastatin exposure and gemfibrozil may cause myopathy when given alone. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of gemfibrozil with rosuvastatin. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of gemfibrozil with rosuvastatin. If used concomitantly, initiate rosuvastatin at 5 mg once daily and do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily. Tafamidis Clinical Impact: Tafamidis significantly increased rosuvastatin exposure and tafamidis may cause myopathy when given alone. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of tafamidis with rosuvastatin. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of tafamidis with rosuvastatin. If used concomitantly, initiate rosuvastatin at 5 mg once daily and do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 20 mg once daily. Monitor for signs of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if used concomitantly with rosuvastatin. Anti-Viral Medications Clinical Impact: Rosuvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of many anti-viral drugs, which increases the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Intervention: Sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir Ledipasvir/sofosbuvir Avoid concomitant use with rosuvastatin. Simeprevir Dasabuvir/ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir Elbasvir/grazoprevir Sofosbuvir/velpatasvir Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir Atazanavir/ritonavir Lopinavir/ritonavir Initiate with rosuvastatin 5 mg once daily, and do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily. Darolutamide Clinical Impact: Darolutamide increased rosuvastatin exposure more than 5-fold. Intervention: In patients taking darolutamide, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 5 mg once daily. Regorafenib Clinical Impact: Regorafenib increased rosuvastatin exposure and may increase the risk of myopathy. Intervention: In patients taking regorafenib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily. Fenofibrates (e.g., fenofibrate and fenofibric acid) Clinical Impact: Fibrates may cause myopathy when given alone. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of fibrates with rosuvastatin. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using fibrates concomitantly with rosuvastatin outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. If concomitant use is decided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy, particularly during initiation of therapy and during upward dose titration of either drug. Niacin Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have occurred with concomitant use of lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin with rosuvastatin. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin concomitantly with rosuvastatin outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Colchicine Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with concomitant use of colchicine with rosuvastatin. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using colchicine concomitantly with rosuvastatin outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Ticagrelor Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of rosuvastatin and ticagrelor has been shown to increase rosuvastatin concentrations, which may result in increased risk of myopathy. Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients using both products concomitantly. Cases have occurred more frequently in patients taking 40 mg of rosuvastatin. Intervention: In patients taking concomitant ticagrelor, especially those with additional risk factors for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy, particularly during initiation of therapy and during upward dose titration of rosuvastatin. 7.2 Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Rosuvastatin Table 6 presents drug interactions that may decrease the efficacy of rosuvastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 6: Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Rosuvastatin Antacids Clinical Impact: Concomitant aluminum and magnesium hydroxide combination antacid administration decreased the mean exposure of rosuvastatin 50% [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: In patients taking antacid, administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before the antacid. 7.3 Rosuvastatin Effects on Other Drugs Table 7 presents rosuvastatin's effect on other drugs and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 7: Rosuvastatin Effects on Other Drugs Warfarin Clinical Impact: Rosuvastatin significantly increased the INR in patients receiving warfarin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: In patients taking warfarin, obtain an INR before starting rosuvastatin and frequently enough after initiation, dose titration or discontinuation to ensure that no significant alteration in INR occurs. Once the INR is stable, monitor INR at regularly recommended intervals. ( 7.2 ) Warfarin: Obtain INR prior to starting rosuvastatin. Table 5 includes a list of drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly with rosuvastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: If used concomitantly, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 5 mg once daily . Intervention: In patients taking teriflunomide, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily . Intervention: In patients taking enasidenib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily . Intervention: In patients taking capmatinib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily . Intervention: In patients taking fostamatinib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 20 mg once daily . Intervention: In patients taking febuxostat, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 20 mg once daily . If used concomitantly, initiate rosuvastatin at 5 mg once daily and do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily . Monitor for signs of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if used concomitantly with rosuvastatin . Intervention: • Sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir • Ledipasvir/sofosbuvir Avoid concomitant use with rosuvastatin. • Simeprevir • Dasabuvir/ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir • Elbasvir/grazoprevir • Sofosbuvir/velpatasvir • Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir • Atazanavir/ritonavir • Lopinavir/ritonavir Initiate with rosuvastatin 5 mg once daily, and do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use . Intervention: In patients taking darolutamide, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 5 mg once daily . Intervention: In patients taking regorafenib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily . Table 6: Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Rosuvastatin Antacids Clinical Impact: Concomitant aluminum and magnesium hydroxide combination antacid administration decreased the mean exposure of rosuvastatin 50% [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: In patients taking antacid, administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before the antacid . 7.3 Rosuvastatin Effects on Other Drugs Table 7 presents rosuvastatin’s effect on other drugs and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 7: Rosuvastatin Effects on Other Drugs Warfarin Clinical Impact: Rosuvastatin significantly increased the INR in patients receiving warfarin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Combination of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir or ledipasvir/sofosbuvir: Combination increases rosuvastatin tablets exposure. Use with rosuvastatin tablets is not recommended. ( 2.4 , 5.1 , 7.3 , 12.3 ) Cyclosporine and darolutamide : Combination increases rosuvastatin tablets exposure. Limit rosuvastatin tablets dose to 5 mg once daily. ( 2. 4, 5.1 , 7.1 , 7.4 , 12.3 ) Gemfibrozil : Combination should be avoided. If used together, limit rosuvastatin tablets dose to 10 mg once daily. (2.4, 5.1 , 7.2 ) Atazanavir/ritonavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, simeprevir or combination of dasabuvir/ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, elbasvir/grazoprevir, sofosbuvir/velpatasvir and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir: Combination increases rosuvastatin tablets exposure. Limit rosuvastatin tablets dose to 10 mg once daily. ( 2.4 , 5.1 , 7.3 , 12.3 ) Regorafenib: Combination increases rosuvastatin exposure. Limit rosuvastatin tablets dose to 10 mg once daily.( 2.4 , 5.1 , 7.5 ) Coumarin anticoagulants : Combination prolongs INR. Achieve stable INR prior to starting rosuvastatin tablets. Monitor INR frequently until stable upon initiation or alteration of rosuvastatin tablets therapy. ( 5.4 , 7.6 ) Concomitant lipid-lowering therapies : Use with fibrates or lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin increases the risk of adverse skeletal muscle effects. Caution should be used when prescribing with rosuvastatin tablets. ( 5.1 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) 7.1 Cyclosporine Cyclosporine increased rosuvastatin exposure and may result in increased risk of myopathy. Therefore, in patients taking cyclosporine, the dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 5 mg once daily [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 Gemfibrozil Gemfibrozil significantly increased rosuvastatin exposure. Due to an observed increased risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis,combination therapy with rosuvastatin tablets and gemfibrozil should be avoided. If used together, the dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.3 Anti-viral Medications Coadministration of rosuvastatin with certain anti-viral drugs has differing effects on rosuvastatin exposure and may increase risk of myopathy. The combination of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir which are anti-Hepatitis C virus (anti-HCV) drugs, increases rosuvastatin exposure. Similarly, the combination of ledipasvir/sofosbuvir may significantly increase rosuvastatin exposure. For these combinations of anti-HCV drugs, concomitant use with rosuvastatin tablets is not recommended. Simeprevir and combinations of dasabuvir/ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, elbasvir/grazoprevir, sofosbuvir/velpatasvir and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir which are anti-HCV drugs, increase rosuvastatin exposure. Combinations of atazanavir/ritonavir and lopinavir/ritonavir, which are anti-HIV-1 drugs, increase rosuvastatin exposure [see Table 4 – Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . For these anti-viral drugs, the dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily. The combinations of fosamprenavir/ritonavir or tipranavir/ritonavir, which are anti-HIV-1 drugs, produce little or no change in rosuvastatin exposure. No dose adjustment is needed for concomitant use with these combinations [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.4 Darolutamide Darolutamide increased rosuvastatin exposure more than 5 fold. Therefore, in patients taking darolutamide, the dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 5 mg once daily [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.5 Regorafenib Regorafenib increased rosuvastatin exposure and may increase the risk of myopathy. If used together, the dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.6 Coumarin Anticoagulants Rosuvastatin tablets significantly increased INR in patients receiving coumarin anticoagulants. Therefore, caution should be exercised when coumarin anticoagulants are given in conjunction with rosuvastatin tablets. In patients taking coumarin anticoagulants and rosuvastatin tablets concomitantly, INR should be determined before starting rosuvastatin tablets and frequently enough during early therapy to ensure that no significant alteration of INR occurs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 7.7 Niacin The risk of skeletal muscle effects may be enhanced when rosuvastatin tablets is used in combination with lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin; caution should be used when prescribing with rosuvastatin tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7.8 Fenofibrate When rosuvastatin tablets was coadministered with fenofibrate, no clinically significant increase in the AUC of rosuvastatin or fenofibrate was observed. Because it is known that the risk of myopathy during treatment with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors is increased with concomitant use of fenofibrates, caution should be used when prescribing fenofibrates with rosuvastatin tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.9 Colchicine Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with HMG–CoA reductase inhibitors, including rosuvastatin,coadministered with colchicine, and caution should be exercised when prescribing rosuvastatin tablets with colchicine [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7. DRUG INTERACTIONS Combination of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir or ledipasvir/sofosbuvir: Combination increases rosuvastatin exposure. ( 2.4 , 5.1 , 7.3 , 12.3 ) Cyclosporine and darolutamide: Combination increases rosuvastatin exposure. Limit rosuvastatin dose to 5 mg once daily. ( 2.4 , 5.1 , 7.1 , 7.4 , 12.3 ) Gemfibrozil: Combination should be avoided. If used together, limit rosuvastatin tablet dose to 10 mg once daily. ( 2.4 , 5.1 , 7.2 ) Atazanavir/ritonavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, simeprevir or combination of dasabuvir/ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, elbasvir/grazoprevir, sofosbuvir/velpatasvir and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir: Combination increases rosuvastatin exposure. Limit rosuvastatin dose to 10 mg once daily. ( 2.4 , 5.1 , 7.5 ) Coumarin anticoagulants: Combination prolongs INR. ( 5.4 , 7.6 ) Concomitant lipid-lowering therapies: Use with fibrates or lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin increases the risk of adverse skeletal muscle effects. Therefore, in patients taking cyclosporine, the dose of rosuvastatin should not exceed 5 mg once daily [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Due to an observed increased risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis, combination therapy with rosuvastatin and gemfibrozil should be avoided. If used together, the dose of rosuvastatin should not exceed 10 mg once daily [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. For these combinations of anti-HCV drugs, concomitant use with rosuvastatin is not recommended. Combinations of atazanavir/ritonavir and lopinavir/ritonavir, which are anti-HIV-1 drugs, increase rosuvastatin exposure [ see Table 4 – Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. No dose adjustment is needed for concomitant use with these combinations [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Therefore, in patients taking darolutamide, the dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 5 mg once daily [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. If used together, the dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.6 Coumarin Anticoagulants Rosuvastatin significantly increased INR in patients receiving coumarin anticoagulants. Therefore, caution should be exercised when coumarin anticoagulants are given in conjunction with rosuvastatin. In patients taking coumarin anticoagulants and rosuvastatin concomitantly, INR should be determined before starting rosuvastatin and frequently enough during early therapy to ensure that no significant alteration of INR occurs [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.7 Niacin The risk of skeletal muscle effects may be enhanced when rosuvastatin is used in combination with lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin; caution should be used when prescribing with rosuvastatin [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7.8 Fenofibrate When rosuvastatin was coadministered with fenofibrate, no clinically significant increase in the AUC of rosuvastatin or fenofibrate was observed. Because it is known that the risk of myopathy during treatment with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors is increased with concomitant use of fenofibrates, caution should be used when prescribing fenofibrates with rosuvastatin [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.9 Colchicine Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, including rosuvastatin, coadministered with colchicine, and caution should be exercised when prescribing rosuvastatin with colchicine [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for details regarding concomitant use of rosuvastatin tablets with other drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. ( 7.1 ) Aluminum and Magnesium Hydroxide Combination Antacids: Administer rosuvastatin tablets at least 2 hours before the antacid. ( 7.2 ) Warfarin: Obtain INR prior to starting rosuvastatin tablets. (7.3 ) 7.1 Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Rosuvastatin Tablets Rosuvastatin is a substrate of CYP2C9 and transporters (such as OATP1B1, BCRP). Table 5 includes a list of drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly with rosuvastatin tablets and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Table 5: Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Rosuvastatin Tablets Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Cyclosporine increased rosuvastatin exposure 7-fold. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of cyclosporine or gemfibrozil with rosuvastatin tablets. Intervention: If used concomitantly, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin tablets 5 mg once daily. Intervention: In patients taking teriflunomide, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin tablets 10 mg once daily. Intervention: In patients taking enasidenib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin tablets 10 mg once daily. Intervention: In patients taking capmatinib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin tablets 10 mg once daily. Intervention: In patients taking fostamatinib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin tablets 20 mg once daily. Intervention: In patients taking febuxostat, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin tablets 20 mg once daily. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of gemfibrozil with rosuvastatin tablets. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of gemfibrozil with rosuvastatin tablets. If used concomitantly, initiate rosuvastatin tablets at 5 mg once daily and do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin tablets 10 mg once daily. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of tafamidis with rosuvastatin tablets. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of tafamidis with rosuvastatin tablets. If used concomitantly, initiate rosuvastatin tablets at 5 mg once daily and do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin tablets 20 mg once daily. Monitor for signs of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if used concomitantly with rosuvastatin tablets. Intervention: Sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir Ledipasvir/sofosbuvir Avoid concomitant use with rosuvastatin tablets. Simeprevir Dasabuvir/ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir Elbasvir/grazoprevir Sofosbuvir/velpatasvir Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir Atazanavir/ritonavir Lopinavir/ritonavir Initiate with rosuvastatin tablets 5 mg once daily, and do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin tablets 10 mg once daily. Intervention: In patients taking darolutamide, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin tablets 5 mg once daily. Intervention: In patients taking regorafenib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin tablets 10 mg once daily. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of fibrates with rosuvastatin tablets. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using fibrates concomitantly with rosuvastatin tablets outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Niacin Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have occurred with concomitant use of lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin with rosuvastatin tablets. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin concomitantly with rosuvastatin tablets outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Colchicine Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with concomitant use of colchicine with rosuvastatin tablets. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using colchicine concomitantly with rosuvastatin tablets outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Ticagrelor Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of rosuvastatin tablets and ticagrelor has been shown to increase rosuvastatin concentrations, which may result in increased risk of myopathy. Intervention: In patients taking concomitant ticagrelor, especially those with additional risk factors for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy, particularly during initiation of therapy and during upward dose titration of rosuvastatin tablets. 7.2 Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Rosuvastatin Tablets Table 6 presents drug interactions that may decrease the efficacy of rosuvastatin tablets and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 6: Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Rosuvastatin Tablets Antacids Clinical Impact: Concomitant aluminum and magnesium hydroxide combination antacid administration decreased the mean exposure of rosuvastatin 50% [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: In patients taking antacid, administer rosuvastatin tablets at least 2 hours before the antacid. 7.3 Rosuvastatin Tablets Effects on Other Drugs Table 7 presents rosuvastatin tablets effect on other drugs and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 7: Rosuvastatin Tablets Effects on Other Drugs Warfarin Clinical Impact: Rosuvastatin significantly increased the INR in patients receiving warfarin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: In patients taking warfarin, obtain an INR before starting rosuvastatin tablets and frequently enough after initiation, dose titration or discontinuation to ensure that no significant alteration in INR occurs. Table 7: Rosuvastatin Effects on Other Drugs Warfarin Clinical Impact: Rosuvastatin significantly increased the INR in patients receiving warfarin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Rosuvastatin Rosuvastatin is a substrate of CYP2C9 and transporters (such as OATP1B1, BCRP). Table 5 includes a list of drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly with rosuvastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Table 5: Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Rosuvastatin 7.2 Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Rosuvastatin Table 6 presents drug interactions that may decrease the efficacy of rosuvastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 6: Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Rosuvastatin 7.3 Rosuvastatin Effects on Other Drugs Table 7 presents rosuvastatin’s effect on other drugs and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 7: Rosuvastatin Effects on Other Drugs See full prescribing information for details regarding concomitant use of rosuvastatin with other drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. ( 7.1) Aluminum and Magnesium Hydroxide Combination Antacids:Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before the antacid. ( 7.2) Warfarin:Obtain INR prior to starting rosuvastatin Monitor INR frequently until stable upon initiation, dose titration or discontinuation. ( 7.3) table 5, part 1 table 5, part 2 table 5; part 3 table 5, part 4 table 5; part 5 table 6 table 7 ( 2.6 , 7.1 ) Aluminum and Magnesium Hydroxide Combination Antacids : Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours after the antacid. ( 2.6 , 7.2 ) Warfarin: Obtain INR prior to starting rosuvastatin. Table 5 includes a list of drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly with rosuvastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: In patients taking antacid, administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours after the antacid . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Combina1ion of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir or ledipasvir/sofosbuvir : Combination increases rosuvastatin exposure. Use with rosuvastatin is not recommended. ( 2.4 , 5.1 , 7.3 , 12.3 ) Cyclosporine and darolutamide : Combination increases rosuvastatin exposure. ( 2.4 , 5.1 , 7.1 , 7.4 , 12.3 ) Gemfibrozil : Combination should be avoided. If used together, limit rosuvastatin dose to 10 mg once daily. ( 2.4 , 5.1 , 7.2 ) Atazanavir/ritonavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, simeprevir or combination of dasabuvir/ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, elbasvir/grazoprevir, sofosbuvir/velpatasvir and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir : Combination increases rosuvastatin exposure. ( 2.4 , 5.1 , 7.3 , 12.3 ) Regorafenib : Combination increases rosuvastatin exposure. ( 2.4 , 5.1 , 7.5 ) Coumarin anticoagulants : Combination prolongs INR Achieve stable INR prior to starting rosuvastatin. Moni1or INR frequently until stable upon initiation or alteration of rosuvastatin therapy. ( 5.4 , 7.6 ) Concomitant lipid-lowering therapies : Use with fibrates or lipid modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin increases the risk of adverse skeletal muscle effects. Caution should be used when prescribing with rosuvastatin. Therefore, in patients taking cyclosporine, the dose of rosuvastatin should not exceed 5 mg once daily [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. If used together, the dose of rosuvastatin should not exceed 10 mg once daily [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Combinations of atazanavir/ritonavir and lopinavir/ritonavir, which are anti-HIV-1 drugs, increase rosuvastatin exposure [see Table 4 – Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. For these anti-viral drugs, the dose of rosuvastatin should not exceed 10 mg once daily. No dose adjustment is needed for concomitant use with these combinations [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Therefore, in patients taking darolutamide, the dose of rosuvastatin should not exceed 5 mg once daily [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. If used together, the dose of rosuvastatin should not exceed 10 mg once daily [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. In patients taking coumarin anticoagulants and rosuvastatin concomitantly, INR should be determined before starting rosuvastatin and frequently enough during early therapy to ensure that no significant alteration of INR occurs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.7 Niacin The risk of skeletal muscle effects may be enhanced when rosuvastatin is used in combination with lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin; caution should be used when prescribing with rosuvastatin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Because it is known that the risk of myopathy during treatment with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors is increased with concomitant use of fenofibrates, caution should be used when prescribing fenofibrates with rosuvastatin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.9 Colchicine Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, including rosuvastatin, coadministered with colchicine, and caution should be exercised when prescribing rosuvastatin with colchicine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for details regarding concomitant use of rosuvastatin calcium with other drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. ( 7.1 ) Aluminum and Magnesium Hydroxide Combination Antacids: Administer rosuvastatin calcium at least 2 hours before the antacid. ( 7.2 ) Warfarin: Obtain INR prior to starting rosuvastatin calcium. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Rosuvastatin calcium Rosuvastatin is a substrate of CYP2C9 and transporters (such as OATP1B1, BCRP). Table 5 includes a list of drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly with rosuvastatin calcium and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 5: Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Rosuvastatin calcium Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Cyclosporine increased rosuvastatin exposure 7-fold. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of cyclosporine or gemfibrozil with rosuvastatin calcium. Intervention: If used concomitantly, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin calcium 5 mg once daily . Intervention: In patients taking teriflunomide, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin calcium 10 mg once daily . Intervention: In patients taking capmatinib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin calcium 10 mg once daily . Intervention: In patients taking fostamatinib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin calcium 20 mg once daily . Intervention: In patients taking febuxostat, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin calcium 20 mg once daily . The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of gemfibrozil with rosuvastatin calcium. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of gemfibrozil with rosuvastatin calcium. If used concomitantly, initiate rosuvastatin calcium at 5 mg once daily and do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin calcium 10 mg once daily . The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of tafamidis with rosuvastatin calcium. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of tafamidis with rosuvastatin calcium. If used concomitantly, initiate rosuvastatin calcium at 5 mg once daily and do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin calcium 20 mg once daily. Monitor for signs of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if used concomitantly with rosuvastatin calcium . Intervention: Sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir Ledipasvir/sofosbuvir Avoid concomitant use with rosuvastatin calcium. Simeprevir Dasabuvir/ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir Elbasvir/grazoprevir Sofosbuvir/velpatasvir Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir Atazanavir/ritonavir Lopinavir/ritonavir Initiate with rosuvastatin calcium 5 mg once daily, and do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin calcium 10 mg once daily. Intervention: In patients taking darolutamide, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin calcium 5 mg once daily . Intervention: In patients taking regorafenib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin calcium 10 mg once daily . The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of fibrates with rosuvastatin calcium. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using fibrates concomitantly with rosuvastatin calcium outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Niacin Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have occurred with concomitant use of lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin with rosuvastatin calcium. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin concomitantly with rosuvastatin calcium outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Colchicine Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with concomitant use of colchicine with rosuvastatin calcium. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using colchicine concomitantly with rosuvastatin calcium outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. 7.2 Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Rosuvastatin calcium Table 6 presents drug interactions that may decrease the efficacy of rosuvastatin calcium and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 6: Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Rosuvastatin calcium Antacids Clinical Impact: Concomitant aluminum and magnesium hydroxide combination antacid administration decreased the mean exposure of rosuvastatin 50% [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: In patients taking antacid, administer rosuvastatin calcium at least 2 hours before the antacid. 7.3 Rosuvastatin calcium Effects on Other Drugs Table 7 presents rosuvastatin calcium effect on other drugs and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 7: Rosuvastatin calcium Effects on Other Drugs Warfarin Clinical Impact: Rosuvastatin significantly increased the INR in patients receiving warfarin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Intervention: In patients taking warfarin, obtain an INR before starting rosuvastatin calcium and frequently enough after initiation, dose titration or discontinuation to ensure that no significant alteration in INR occurs.

=== SPIRONOLACTONE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Spironolactone is an aldosterone antagonist indicated for: The treatment of NYHA Class III-IV heart failure and reduced ejection fraction to increase survival, manage edema, and to reduce the need for hospitalization for heart failure ( 1.1 ). Use as an add-on therapy for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions ( 1.2 ). The management of edema in adult patients who are cirrhotic when edema is not responsive to fluid and sodium restrictions and in the setting of nephrotic syndrome when treatment of the underlying disease, restriction of fluid and sodium intake, and the use of other diuretics produce an inadequate response ( 1.3 ). Treatment of primary hyperaldosteronism for: ( 1.4 ) Short-term preoperative treatment Long-term maintenance for patients with discrete aldosterone-producing adrenal adenomas who are not candidates for surgery and patients with bilateral micro or macronodular adrenal hyperplasia 1.1 Heart Failure Spironolactone is indicated for treatment of NYHA Class III-IV heart failure and reduced ejection fraction to increase survival, manage edema, and reduce the need for hospitalization for heart failure. Spironolactone is usually administered in conjunction with other heart failure therapies. 1.2 Hypertension Spironolactone is indicated as add-on therapy for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure in patients who are not adequately controlled on other agents. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. 1.3 Edema Associated with Hepatic Cirrhosis or Nephrotic Syndrome Spironolactone is indicated for the management of edema in the following settings: Cirrhosis of the liver when edema is not responsive to fluid and sodium restriction. Nephrotic syndrome when treatment of the underlying disease, restriction of fluid and sodium intake, and the use of other diuretics produce an inadequate response. Because it increases serum potassium, spironolactone may be useful for treating edema when administration of other diuretics has caused hypokalemia. 1.4 Primary Hyperaldosteronism Spironolactone is indicated in the following settings: Short-term preoperative treatment of patients with primary hyperaldosteronism. Long-term maintenance therapy for patients with discrete aldosterone-producing adrenal adenomas who are not candidates for surgery. Long-term maintenance therapy for patients with bilateral micro or macronodular adrenal hyperplasia (idiopathic hyperaldosteronism). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Spironolactone is an aldosterone antagonist indicated for: • The treatment of NYHA Class III-IV heart failure and reduced ejection fraction to increase survival, manage edema, and to reduce the need for hospitalization for heart failure ( 1.1 ). • Use as an add-on therapy for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. • The management of edema in adult patients who are cirrhotic when edema is not responsive to fluid and sodium restrictions and in the setting of nephrotic syndrome when treatment of the underlying disease, restriction of fluid and sodium intake, and the use of other diuretics produce an inadequate response ( 1.3 ). • Treatment of primary hyperaldosternism for: ( 1.4 ) o Short-term preoperative treatment o Long-term maintenance for patients with discrete aldosterone-producing adrenal adenomas who are not candidates for surgery and patients with bilateral micro or macronodular adrenal hyperplasia 1.1 Heart Failure Spironolactone tablets are indicated for treatment of NYHA Class III-IV heart failure and reduced ejection fraction to increase survival, manage edema, and reduce the need for hospitalization for heart failure. Spironolactone tablets are usually administered in conjunction with other heart failure therapies. 1.2 Hypertension Spironolactone tablets are indicated as add-on therapy for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure in patients who are not adequately controlled on other agents. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program's Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). 1.3 Edema Associated with Hepatic Cirrhosis or Nephrotic Syndrome Spironolactone tablets are indicated for the management of edema in the following settings: • Cirrhosis of the liver when edema is not responsive to fluid and sodium restriction. • Nephrotic syndrome when treatment of the underlying disease, restriction of fluid and sodium intake, and the use of other diuretics produce an inadequate response. 1.4 Primary Hyperaldosteronism Spironolactone tablets are indicated in the following settings: • Short-term preoperative treatment of patients with primary hyperaldosteronism. • Long-term maintenance therapy for patients with discrete aldosterone-producing adrenal adenomas who are not candidates for surgery. • Long-term maintenance therapy for patients with bilateral micro or macronodular adrenal hyperplasia (idiopathic hyperaldosteronism). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Spironolactone, an ingredient of spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, has been shown to be a tumorigen in chronic toxicity studies in rats (see Precautions section). Spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be used only in those conditions described below. Unnecessary use of this drug should be avoided. Spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for: Edematous conditions for patients with: Congestive heart failure: • For the management of edema and sodium retention when the patient is only partially responsive to, or is intolerant of, other therapeutic measures; • The treatment of diuretic-induced hypokalemia in patients with congestive heart failure when other measures are considered inappropriate; • The treatment of patients with congestive heart failure taking digitalis when other therapies are considered inadequate or inappropriate. Cirrhosis of the liver accompanied by edema and/or ascites: • Aldosterone levels may be exceptionally high in this condition. Spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for maintenance therapy together with bed rest and the restriction of fluid and sodium. The nephrotic syndrome: • For nephrotic patients when treatment of the underlying disease, restriction of fluid and sodium intake, and the use of other diuretics do not provide an adequate response. Essential hypertension: • For patients with essential hypertension in whom other measures are considered inadequate or inappropriate; • In hypertensive patients for the treatment of a diuretic-induced hypokalemia when other measures are considered inappropriate; • Spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes, including the classes to which this drug principally belongs. There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Usage in Pregnancy. The routine use of diuretics in an otherwise healthy woman is inappropriate and exposes mother and fetus to unnecessary hazard. Diuretics do not prevent development of toxemia of pregnancy, and there is no satisfactory evidence that they are useful in the treatment of developing toxemia. Edema during pregnancy may arise from pathologic causes or from the physiologic and mechanical consequences of pregnancy. Spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated in pregnancy when edema is due to pathologic causes just as it is in the absence of pregnancy (however, see Precautions: Pregnancy ). Dependent edema in pregnancy, resulting from restriction of venous return by the expanded uterus, is properly treated through elevation of the lower extremities and use of support hose; use of diuretics to lower intravascular volume in this case is unsupported and unnecessary. There is hypervolemia during normal pregnancy which is not harmful to either the fetus or the mother (in the absence of cardiovascular disease), but which is associated with edema, including generalized edema, in the majority of pregnant women. If this edema produces discomfort, increased recumbency will often provide relief. In rare instances, this edema may cause extreme discomfort that is not relieved by rest. In these cases, a short course of diuretics may provide relief and may be appropriate. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Spironolactone tablets are an aldosterone antagonist indicated for: The treatment of NYHA Class III-IV heart failure and reduced ejection fraction to increase survival, manage edema, and to reduce the need for hospitalization for heart failure ( 1.1 ). Treatment of primary hyperaldosternism for: ( 1.4 ). Short-term preoperative treatment Long-term maintenance for patients with discrete aldosterone-producing adrenal adenomas who are not candidates for surgery and patients with bilateral micro or macronodular adrenal hyperplasia 1.1 Heart Failure Spironolactone tablets are indicated for treatment of NYHA Class III-IV heart failure and reduced ejection fraction to increase survival, manage edema, and reduce the need for hospitalization for heart failure. 1.3 Edema Associated with Hepatic Cirrhosis or Nephrotic Syndrome Spironolactone tablets are indicated for the management of edema in the following settings: Cirrhosis of the liver when edema is not responsive to fluid and sodium restriction. Because it increases serum potassium, spironolactone tablets may be useful for treating edema when administration of other diuretics has caused hypokalemia. 1.4 Primary Hyperaldosteronism Spironolactone tablets are indicated in the following settings: Short-term preoperative treatment of patients with primary hyperaldosteronism. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ALDACTONE is an aldosterone antagonist indicated for: • The treatment of NYHA Class III–IV heart failure and reduced ejection fraction to increase survival, manage edema, and to reduce the need for hospitalization for heart failure ( 1.1 ). • Treatment of primary hyperaldosternism for: ( 1.4 ) o Short-term preoperative treatment o Long-term maintenance for patients with discrete aldosterone-producing adrenal adenomas who are not candidates for surgery and patients with bilateral micro or macronodular adrenal hyperplasia 1.1 Heart Failure ALDACTONE is indicated for treatment of NYHA Class III–IV heart failure and reduced ejection fraction to increase survival, manage edema, and reduce the need for hospitalization for heart failure. ALDACTONE is usually administered in conjunction with other heart failure therapies. 1.2 Hypertension ALDACTONE is indicated as add-on therapy for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure in patients who are not adequately controlled on other agents. 1.3 Edema Associated with Hepatic Cirrhosis or Nephrotic Syndrome ALDACTONE is indicated for the management of edema in the following settings: • Cirrhosis of the liver when edema is not responsive to fluid and sodium restriction. Because it increases serum potassium, ALDACTONE may be useful for treating edema when administration of other diuretics has caused hypokalemia. 1.4 Primary Hyperaldosteronism ALDACTONE is indicated in the following settings: • Short-term preoperative treatment of patients with primary hyperaldosteronism. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Spironolactone tablets are an aldosterone antagonist indicated for: • The treatment of NYHA Class III-IV heart failure and reduced ejection fraction to increase survival, manage edema, and to reduce the need for hospitalization for heart failure ( 1.1 ). • Treatment of primary hyperaldosternism for: ( 1.4 ). • Short-term preoperative treatment • Long-term maintenance for patients with discrete aldosterone-producing adrenal adenomas who are not candidates for surgery and patients with bilateral micro or macronodular adrenal hyperplasia 1.1 Heart Failure Spironolactone tablets are indicated for treatment of NYHA Class III-IV heart failure and reduced ejection fraction to increase survival, manage edema, and reduce the need for hospitalization for heart failure. Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F). [See USP Controlled Room Temperature] DISPENSE IN TIGHT, LIGHT-RESISTANT CONTAINER. Repackaged/Relabeled by: Bryant Ranch Prepack, Inc. Burbank, CA 91504 1.2 Hypertension Spironolactone tablets are indicated as add-on therapy for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure in patients who are not adequately controlled on other agents. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Spironolactone oral suspension is an antagonist of aldosterone indicated for: the treatment of NYHA Class III-IV heart failure and reduced ejection fraction to increase survival, manage edema, and to reduce the need for hospitalization for heart failure ( 1.1 ) use as an add-on therapy for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions ( 1.2 ) the management of edema in adult cirrhotic patients when edema is not responsive to fluid and sodium restrictions ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Heart Failure Spironolactone oral suspension is indicated for treatment of NYHA Class III-IV heart failure and reduced ejection fraction in adult patients to increase survival, manage edema, and to reduce the need for hospitalization for heart failure. Spironolactone oral suspension is usually administered in conjunction with other heart failure therapies. 1.2 Hypertension Spironolactone oral suspension is indicated as an add-on therapy for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure in adult patients who are not adequately controlled on other agents. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g. on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). 1.3 Edema caused by Cirrhosis Spironolactone oral suspension is indicated for the management of edema in adult cirrhotic patients when edema is not responsive to fluid and sodium restriction. Treatment of primary hyperaldosternism for: ( 1.4 ) Short-term preoperative treatment Long-term maintenance for patients with discrete aldosterone-producing adrenal adenomas who are not candidates for surgery and patients with bilateral micro or macronodular adrenal hyperplasia 1.1 Heart Failure Spironolactone is indicated for treatment of NYHA Class III-IV heart failure and reduced ejection fraction to increase survival, manage edema, and reduce the need for hospitalization for heart failure. o Short-term preoperative treatment o Long-term maintenance for patients with discrete aldosterone-producing adrenal adenomas who are not candidates for surgery and patients with bilateral micro or macronodular adrenal hyperplasia 1.1 Heart Failure Spironolactone tablets are indicated for treatment of NYHA Class III-IV heart failure and reduced ejection fraction to increase survival, manage edema, and reduce the need for hospitalization for heart failure.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Heart Failure: Initiate treatment at 25 mg once daily ( 2.2 ). Hypertension: Initiate treatment at 25 to 100 mg daily in either single or divided doses ( 2.3 ). Edema: Initiate therapy in a hospital setting and titrate slowly. The recommended initial daily dose is 100 mg in single or divided doses ( 2.4 ). Primary hyperaldosteronism: Initiate treatment at 100 to 400 mg in preparation for surgery. In patients unsuitable for surgery use the lowest effective dosage determined for the individual patient ( 2.5 ). 2.1 General Considerations Spironolactone can be taken with or without food, but should be taken consistently with respect to food [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.2 Treatment of Heart Failure In patients with serum potassium ≤5.0 mEq/L and eGFR >50 mL/min/1.73 m², initiate treatment at 25 mg once daily. Patients who tolerate 25 mg once daily may have their dosage increased to 50 mg once daily as clinically indicated. Patients who develop hyperkalemia on 25 mg once daily may have their dosage reduced to 25 mg every other day [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . In patients with an eGFR between 30 and 50 mL/min/1.73 m 2 , consider initiating therapy at 25 mg every other day because of the risk of hyperkalemia [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. 2.3 Treatment of Essential Hypertension The recommended initial daily dose is 25 to 100 mg of spironolactone administered in either single or divided doses is recommended. Dosage can be titrated at two-week intervals. Doses greater than 100 mg/day generally do not provide additional reductions in blood pressure. 2.4 Treatment of Edema In patients with cirrhosis, initiate therapy in a hospital setting and titrate slowly [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] . The recommended initial daily dosage is 100 mg of spironolactone administered in either single or divided doses, but may range from 25 to 200 mg daily. When given as the sole agent for diuresis, administer for at least five days before increasing dose to obtain desired effect. 2.5 Treatment of Primary Hyperaldosteronism Administer spironolactone in doses of 100 to 400 mg daily in preparation for surgery. For patients who are considered unsuitable for surgery, spironolactone can be used as long-term maintenance therapy at the lowest effective dosage determined for the individual patient. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Heart Failure: Initiate treatment at 25 mg once daily ( 2.2 ). • Hypertension: Initiate treatment at 25 mg to 100 mg daily in either single or divided doses ( 2.3 ). • Edema: Initiate therapy in a hospital setting and titrate slowly. • Primary hyperaldosteronism: Initiate treatment at 100 mg to 400 mg in preparation for surgery. 2.1 General Considerations Spironolactone can be taken with or without food, but should be taken consistently with respect to food [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.2 Treatment of Heart Failure In patients with serum potassium ≤5.0 mEq/L and eGFR >50 mL/min/1.73 m 2 , initiate treatment at 25 mg once daily. Patients who develop hyperkalemia on 25 mg once daily may have their dosage reduced to 25 mg every other day [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . In patients with an eGFR between 30 and 50 mL/min/1.73 m 2 , consider initiating therapy at 25 mg every other day because of the risk of hyperkalemia [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. 2.3 Treatment of Essential Hypertension The recommended initial daily dose is 25 mg to 100 mg of spironolactone administered in either single or divided doses is recommended. 2.4 Treatment of Edema In patients with cirrhosis, initiate therapy in a hospital setting and titrate slowly [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )] . The recommended initial daily dosage is 100 mg of spironolactone administered in either single or divided doses, but may range from 25 mg to 200 mg daily. 2.5 Treatment of Primary Hyperaldosteronism Administer spironolactone in doses of 100 mg to 400 mg daily in preparation for surgery. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Optimal dosage should be established by individual titration of the components. Edema in adults ( congestive heart failure, hepatic cirrhosis, or nephrotic syndrome) The usual maintenance dose of spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is 100 mg each of spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide daily, administered in a single dose or in divided doses, but may range from 25 mg to 200 mg of each component daily depending on the response to the initial titration. In some instances it may be desirable to administer separate tablets of either spironolactone or hydrochlorothiazide in addition to spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in order to provide optimal individual therapy. The onset of diuresis with spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets occurs promptly and, due to prolonged effect of the spironolactone component, persists for two to three days after spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are discontinued. Essential hypertension Although the dosage will vary depending on the results of titration of the individual ingredients, many patients will be found to have an optimal response to 50 mg to 100 mg each of spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide daily, given in a single dose or in divided doses. Concurrent potassium supplementation is not recommended when spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are used in the long-term management of hypertension or in the treatment of most edematous conditions, since the spironolactone content of spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is usually sufficient to minimize loss induced by the hydrochlorothiazide component. 2.1 General Considerations Spironolactone tablets can be taken with or without food, but should be taken consistently with respect to food [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Patients who develop hyperkalemia on 25 mg once daily may have their dosage reduced to 25 mg every other day [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . In patients with an eGFR between 30 and 50 mL/min/1.73 m 2 , consider initiating therapy at 25 mg every other day because of the risk of hyperkalemia [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.6 ) ]. 2.3 Treatment of Essential Hypertension The recommended initial daily dose is 25 to 100 mg of spironolactone tablets administered in either single or divided doses is recommended. 2.4 Treatment of Edema In patients with cirrhosis, initiate therapy in a hospital setting and titrate slowly [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] . The recommended initial daily dosage is 100 mg of spironolactone tablets administered in either single or divided doses, but may range from 25 to 200 mg daily. 2.5 Treatment of Primary Hyperaldosteronism Administer spironolactone tablets in doses of 100 to 400 mg daily in preparation for surgery. For patients who are considered unsuitable for surgery, spironolactone tablets can be used as long-term maintenance therapy at the lowest effective dosage determined for the individual patient. • Hypertension: Initiate treatment at 25 to 100 mg daily in either single or divided doses ( 2.3 ). • Primary hyperaldosteronism: Initiate treatment at 100 to 400 mg in preparation for surgery. 2.1 General Considerations ALDACTONE can be taken with or without food, but should be taken consistently with respect to food [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.3 Treatment of Essential Hypertension The recommended initial daily dose is 25 to 100 mg of ALDACTONE administered in either single or divided doses is recommended. The recommended initial daily dosage is 100 mg of ALDACTONE administered in either single or divided doses, but may range from 25 to 200 mg daily. 2.5 Treatment of Primary Hyperaldosteronism Administer ALDACTONE in doses of 100 to 400 mg daily in preparation for surgery. For patients who are considered unsuitable for surgery, ALDACTONE can be used as long-term maintenance therapy at the lowest effective dosage determined for the individual patient. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Spironolactone oral suspension is not therapeutically equivalent to Aldactone ( 2.1 ) Heart Failure: Initiate treatment at 20 mg once daily. ( 2.2 ) Hypertension: Initiate treatment at 20 to 75 mg daily in either single or divided doses ( 2.3 ) Edema associated with Hepatic Cirrhosis: Initiate therapy in a hospital setting and titrate slowly. The initial recommended daily dose is 75 mg in either single or divided doses ( 2.4 ) 2.1 General Considerations Spironolactone oral suspension is not therapeutically equivalent to Aldactone. Follow dosing instructions given here. In patients requiring a dose greater than 100 mg, use another formulation. Doses of the suspension greater than 100 mg may result in spironolactone concentrations higher than expected [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Spironolactone oral suspension can be taken with or without food, but should be taken consistently with respect to food [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.2 Treatment of Heart Failure In patients with serum potassium ≤5.0 mEq/L and eGFR >50 mL/min/1.73m 2 , initiate treatment at 20 mg (4 mL) once daily. Patients who tolerate 20 mg (4 mL) once daily may have their dosage increased to 37.5 mg (7.5 mL) once daily as clinically indicated. Patients who develop hyperkalemia on 20 mg (4 mL) once daily may have their dosage reduced to 20 mg (4 mL) every other day [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . In patients with an eGFR between 30 and 50 mL/min/1.73m 2 , consider initiating treatment at 10 mg (2 mL) because of the risk of hyperkalemia [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . 2.3 Treatment of Essential Hypertension The recommended initial daily dose is 20 mg (4 mL) to 75 mg (15 mL) administered in either single or divided doses. Doses >75 mg/day generally do not provide additional reductions in blood pressure. 2.4 Treatment of Edema Associated with Hepatic Cirrhosis In patients with cirrhosis, initiate therapy in a hospital setting and titrate slowly [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . The recommended initial daily dose is 75 mg (15 mL) administered in either single or divided doses. In patients requiring titration above 100 mg, use another formulation [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )] . In patients unsuitable for surgery use the effective dosage determined for the individual patient ( 2.5 ).
Warnings: WARNINGS Potassium supplementation, either in the form of medication or as a diet rich in potassium, should not ordinarily be given in association with spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide therapy. Excessive potassium intake may cause hyperkalemia in patients receiving spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide (see Precautions: General ). Concomitant administration of spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide with the following drugs or potassium sources may lead to severe hyperkalemia: • other potassium-sparing diuretics • ACE inhibitors • angiotensin II receptor antagonists • aldosterone blockers • non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), e.g., indomethacin • heparin and low molecular weight heparin • other drugs or conditions known to cause hyperkalemia • potassium supplements • diet rich in potassium • salt substitutes containing potassium Spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide should not be administered concurrently with other potassium-sparing diuretics. Spironolactone, when used with ACE inhibitors or indomethacin, even in the presence of a diuretic, has been associated with severe hyperkalemia. Extreme caution should be exercised when spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are given concomitantly with these drugs (see Precautions: Drug interactions ). Spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function because minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma. Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics (see Precautions: Drug interactions ). Thiazides should be used with caution in severe renal disease. In patients with renal disease, thiazides may precipitate azotemia. Cumulative effects of the drug may develop in patients with impaired renal function. Thiazides may add to or potentiate the action of other antihypertensive drugs. Sensitivity reactions to thiazides may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma. Sulfonamide derivatives, including thiazides, have been reported to exacerbate or activate systemic lupus erythematosus. Acute Angle-Closure Glaucoma with or without Acute Myopia and Choroidal Effusions Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute angle-closure glaucoma and elevated intraocular pressure with or without a noticeable acute myopic shift and/or choroidal effusions. Symptoms may include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated, the angle-closure glaucoma may result in permanent visual field loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Spironolactone is contraindicated in the patients with: Hyperkalemia Addison’s disease Concomitant use of eplerenone Spironolactone is contraindicated in patients with ( 4 ): Hyperkalemia Addison’s disease Concomitant use of eplerenone 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Spironolactone tablets are contraindicated in the patients with: • Hyperkalemia • Addison's disease • Concomitant use of eplerenone Spironolactone tablets are contraindicated in patients with ( 4 ): • Hyperkalemia • Addison's disease • Concomitant use of eplerenone CONTRAINDICATIONS Spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in patients with anuria, acute renal insufficiency, significant impairment of renal excretory function, hypercalcemia, hyperkalemia, Addison’s disease, and in patients who are allergic to thiazide diuretics or to other sulfonamide-derived drugs. Spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide may also be contraindicated in acute or severe hepatic failure. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Spironolactone tablets are contraindicated in the patients with: Hyperkalemia Addison’s disease Concomitant use of eplerenone Spironolactone Tablets are contraindicated in patients with ( 4 ): Hyperkalemia Addison’s disease Concomitant use of eplerenone 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ALDACTONE is contraindicated in the patients with: • Hyperkalemia • Addison's disease • Concomitant use of eplerenone ALDACTONE is contraindicated in patients with ( 4 ): ▪ Hyperkalemia ▪ Addison's disease ▪ Concomitant use of eplerenone 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Spironolactone tablets are contraindicated in the patients with: • Hyperkalemia • Addison’s disease • Concomitant use of eplerenone Spironolactone Tablets are contraindicated in patients with ( 4 ): • Hyperkalemia • Addison’s disease • Concomitant use of eplerenone 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Spironolactone oral suspension is contraindicated for patients with the following conditions: Hyperkalemia Addison’s disease Concomitant use of eplerenone Spironolactone oral suspension is contraindicated in patients with ( 4 ): Hyperkalemia Addison’s disease Concomitant use of eplerenone
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Agents increasing serum potassium: Concomitant administration can lead to hyperkalemia ( 5.1 , 7.1 ). Lithium: Increased risk of lithium toxicity ( 7.2 ). NSAIDs: May reduce the diuretic, natriuretic and antihypertensive effect of spironolactone ( 7.3 ). Digoxin: spironolactone can interfere with radioimmunologic assays of digoxin exposure ( 7.4) . Cholestyramine: Hyperkalemic metabolic acidosis has been reported with concomitant use ( 7.5 ). Acetylsalicylic Acid (ASA): ASA may reduce the efficacy of spironolactone ( 7.6 ) Abiraterone: May increase prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels ( 7.7 ). 7.1 Drugs and Supplements Increasing Serum Potassium Concomitant administration of spironolactone with potassium supplementation or drugs that can increase potassium may lead to severe hyperkalemia. In general, discontinue potassium supplementation in heart failure patients who start spironolactone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Check serum potassium levels when ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy is altered in patients receiving spironolactone. Examples of drugs that can increase potassium include: ACE inhibitors angiotensin receptor blockers non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) heparin and low molecular weight heparin trimethoprim 7.2 Lithium Like other diuretics, spironolactone reduces the renal clearance of lithium, thus increasing the risk of lithium toxicity. Monitor lithium levels periodically when spironolactone is coadministered [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.3 Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) In some patients, the administration of an NSAID can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effect of diuretics. Therefore, when spironolactone and NSAIDs are used concomitantly, monitor closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.4 Digoxin Spironolactone and its metabolites interfere with radioimmunoassays for digoxin and increase the apparent exposure to digoxin. It is unknown to what extent, if any, spironolactone may increase actual digoxin exposure. In patients taking concomitant digoxin, use an assay that does not interact with spironolactone. 7.5 Cholestyramine Hyperkalemic metabolic acidosis has been reported in patients given spironolactone concurrently with cholestyramine. 7.6 Acetylsalicylic Acid Acetylsalicylic acid may reduce the efficacy of spironolactone. Therefore, when spironolactone and acetylsalicylic acid are used concomitantly, spironolactone may need to be titrated to higher maintenance dose and the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect is obtained [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.7 Abiraterone Spironolactone binds to the androgen receptor and may increase prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels in abiraterone-treated prostate cancer patients. Concomitant use of spironolactone and abiraterone is not recommended. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Agents increasing serum potassium: Concomitant administration can lead to hyperkalemia ( 5.1 , 7.1 ). • Lithium: Increased risk of lithium toxicity ( 7.2 ). • NSAIDs: May reduce the diuretic, natriuretic and antihypertensive effect of spironolactone ( 7.3 ). • Digoxin: Spironolactone can interfere with radioimmunologic assays of digoxin exposure ( 7.4 ). • Cholestyramine: Hyperkalemic metabolic acidosis has been reported with concomitant use ( 7.5 ). • Acetylsalicylic Acid (ASA): ASA may reduce the efficacy of spironolactone ( 7.6 ). • Abiraterone: May increase prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels ( 7.7 ). • Mitotane: Avoid concomitant use of spironolactone and mitotane ( 7.8 ). In general, discontinue potassium supplementation in heart failure patients who start spironolactone [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Examples of drugs that can increase potassium include: • ACE inhibitors • angiotensin receptor blockers • non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) • heparin and low molecular weight heparin • trimethoprim 7.2 Lithium Like other diuretics, spironolactone reduces the renal clearance of lithium, thus increasing the risk of lithium toxicity. Monitor lithium levels periodically when spironolactone is coadministered [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Therefore, when spironolactone and NSAIDs are used concomitantly, monitor closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Therefore, when spironolactone and acetylsalicylic acid are used concomitantly, spironolactone may need to be titrated to higher maintenance dose and the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect is obtained [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.8 Mitotane Avoid concomitant use of spironolactone and mitotane. Spironolactone reduces mitotane plasma levels [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Drug interactions ACE inhibitors, Angiotensin II receptor antagonists, aldosterone blockers, potassium supplements, heparin, low molecular weight heparin, and other drugs known to cause hyperkalemia Concomitant administration may lead to severe hyperkalemia. Alcohol, barbiturates, or narcotics Potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur. Antidiabetic drugs (e.g., oral agents, insulin) Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required (see Precautions ). Corticosteroids, ACTH Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia, may occur. Pressor amines (e.g., norepinephrine) Both spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide reduce the vascular responsiveness to norepinephrine. Therefore, caution should be exercised in the management of patients subjected to regional or general anesthesia while they are being treated with spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide. Skeletal muscle relaxants, nondepolarizing (e.g., tubocurarine) Possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant may result. Lithium Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics. Diuretic agents reduce the renal clearance of lithium and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) In some patients, the administration of an NSAID can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing, and thiazide diuretics. Combination of NSAIDs, e.g., indomethacin, with potassium-sparing diuretics has been associated with severe hyperkalemia. Therefore, when spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and NSAIDs are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. Acetylsalicylic acid Acetylsalicylic acid may reduce the efficacy of spironolactone. Therefore, when spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and acetylsalicylic acid are used concomitantly, spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may need to be titrated to higher maintenance dose and the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect is obtained. Digoxin Spironolactone has been shown to increase the half-life of digoxin. This may result in increased serum digoxin levels and subsequent digitalis toxicity. Monitor serum digoxin levels and adjust dose accordingly. Thiazide-induced electrolyte disturbances, i.e. hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, increase the risk of digoxin toxicity, which may lead to fatal arrhythmic events (see Precautions ) Cholestyramine Hyperkalemic metabolic acidosis has been reported in patients given spironolactone concurrently with cholestyramine. Abiraterone Spironolactone binds to the androgen receptor and may increase prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels in abiraterone-treated prostate cancer patients. Concomitant use of spironolactone is not recommended. Mitotane Avoid concomitant use of spironolactone and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and mitotane. Spironolactone reduces mitotane plasma levels. The effect of concomitant spironolactone on the pharmacokinetics of mitotane has not been studied; however, patients exhibited significantly lower mitotane levels compared to those who did not receive concomitant spironolactone despite receiving higher mitotane doses. NSAIDs: May reduce the diuretic, natriuretic and antihypertensive effect of spironolactone tablets ( 7.3 ). Digoxin: Spironolactone tablets can interfere with radioimmunologic assays of digoxin exposure ( 7.4 ). Acetylsalicylic Acid (ASA): ASA may reduce the efficacy of spironolactone tablets ( 7.6 ). 7.1 Drugs and Supplements Increasing Serum Potassium Concomitant administration of spironolactone tablets with potassium supplementation or drugs that can increase potassium may lead to severe hyperkalemia. In general, discontinue potassium supplementation in heart failure patients who start spironolactone tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Check serum potassium levels when ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy is altered in patients receiving spironolactone tablets. Examples of drugs that can increase potassium include: ACE inhibitors angiotensin receptor blockers non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) heparin and low molecular weight heparin trimethoprim 7.2 Lithium Like other diuretics, spironolactone tablets reduces the renal clearance of lithium, thus increasing the risk of lithium toxicity. Monitor lithium levels periodically when spironolactone tablets are coadministered [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Therefore, when spironolactone tablets and NSAIDs are used concomitantly, monitor closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.5 Cholestyramine Hyperkalemic metabolic acidosis has been reported in patients given spironolactone tablets concurrently with cholestyramine. Therefore, when spironolactone tablets and acetylsalicylic acid are used concomitantly, spironolactone tablets may need to be titrated to higher maintenance dose and the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect is obtained [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3 ) ] . • NSAIDs: May reduce the diuretic, natriuretic and antihypertensive effect of ALDACTONE ( 7.3 ). • Digoxin: ALDACTONE can interfere with radioimmunologic assays of digoxin exposure ( 7.4 ). • Acetylsalicylic Acid (ASA): ASA may reduce the efficacy of ALDACTONE ( 7.6 ). • Mitotane: Avoid concomitant use of ALDACTONE and mitotane ( 7.8 ). 7.1 Drugs and Supplements Increasing Serum Potassium Concomitant administration of ALDACTONE with potassium supplementation or drugs that can increase potassium may lead to severe hyperkalemia. In general, discontinue potassium supplementation in heart failure patients who start ALDACTONE [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Check serum potassium levels when ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy is altered in patients receiving ALDACTONE. Examples of drugs that can increase potassium include: • ACE inhibitors • angiotensin receptor blockers • non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) • heparin and low molecular weight heparin • trimethoprim 7.2 Lithium Like other diuretics, ALDACTONE reduces the renal clearance of lithium, thus increasing the risk of lithium toxicity. Monitor lithium levels periodically when ALDACTONE is coadministered [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Therefore, when ALDACTONE and NSAIDs are used concomitantly, monitor closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.5 Cholestyramine Hyperkalemic metabolic acidosis has been reported in patients given ALDACTONE concurrently with cholestyramine. Therefore, when ALDACTONE and acetylsalicylic acid are used concomitantly, ALDACTONE may need to be titrated to higher maintenance dose and the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect is obtained [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.8 Mitotane Avoid concomitant use of ALDACTONE and mitotane. Spironolactone reduces mitotane plasma levels [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . • NSAIDs: May reduce the diuretic, natriuretic and antihypertensive effect of spironolactone tablets ( 7.3 ). • Digoxin: Spironolactone tablets can interfere with radioimmunologic assays of digoxin exposure ( 7.4 ). • Acetylsalicylic Acid (ASA): ASA may reduce the efficacy of spironolactone tablets ( 7.6 ). Examples of drugs that can increase potassium include: • ACE inhibitors • angiotensin receptor blockers • non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) • heparin and low molecular weight heparin • trimethoprim 7.2 Lithium Like other diuretics, spironolactone tablets reduces the renal clearance of lithium, thus increasing the risk of lithium toxicity. Therefore, when spironolactone tablets and acetylsalicylic acid are used concomitantly, spironolactone tablets may need to be titrated to higher maintenance dose and the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect is obtained [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3 ) ] 7.7 Abiraterone Spironolactone binds to the androgen receptor and may increase prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels in abiraterone-treated prostate cancer patients. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Agents increasing serum potassium: Concomitant administration can lead to hyperkalemia ( 5.1 , 7.1 ) Lithium: Increased risk of lithium toxicity ( 7.2 ) NSAIDs: May reduce the diuretic, natriuretic and antihypertensive effect of spironolactone oral suspension ( 7.3 ) Digoxin: Spironolactone oral suspension can interfere with radioimmunologic assays of digoxin exposure ( 7.4 ) Cholestyramine: Hyperkalemic metabolic acidosis has been reported with concomitant use ( 7.5 ) Acetylsalicylic Acid (ASA): ASA may reduce the efficacy of spironolactone ( 7.6 ) 7.1 Drugs and Supplements Increasing Serum Potassium Concomitant administration of spironolactone oral suspension with potassium supplementation or drugs that can increase potassium may lead to severe hyperkalemia. In general, discontinue potassium supplementation in heart failure patients who start spironolactone oral suspension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Check serum potassium levels when ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy is altered in patients receiving spironolactone oral suspension. Examples of drugs that can increase potassium include: ACE inhibitors angiotensin receptor blockers aldosterone blockers non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) heparin and low molecular weight heparin trimethoprim 7.2 Lithium Like other diuretics, spironolactone oral suspension reduces the renal clearance of lithium, thus increasing the risk of lithium toxicity. Monitor lithium levels periodically when spironolactone oral suspension is coadministered [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.3 Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) In some patients, the administration of an NSAID can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effect of loop, potassium-sparing, and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when spironolactone oral suspension and NSAIDs are used concomitantly, monitor closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.4 Digoxin Spironolactone and its metabolites increase the apparent exposure to digoxin. In patients taking concomitant digoxin, measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating spironolactone using an assay that does not interact with spironolactone. Reduce digoxin concentrations by decreasing the dose by approximately 15-30% or by modifying the dosing frequency and continue monitoring [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Therefore, when spironolactone oral suspension and acetylsalicylic acid are used concomitantly, spironolactone oral suspension may need to be titrated to higher maintenance dose and the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect is obtained [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.7 CYP2C8 and CYP3A Substrates Spironolactone is an irreversible inhibitor for CYP2C8 and CYP3A4/5 in vitro [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Therefore, spironolactone may increase the exposure of other coadministered drugs that are metabolized by CYP2C8 and CYP3A4/5. Dosage adjustments of the drugs metabolized by CYP2C8 (e.g., repaglinide) and CYP3A4/5 (e.g., midazolam, sirolimus and tacrolimus) may be necessary if they are given concurrently with spironolactone.

=== LOPERAMIDE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Anti-diarrheal PURPOSES Anti-diarrheal Anti-gas Purpose Purpose Anti-diarrheal Purpose Antidiarrheal
Indications: Use controls symptoms of diarrhea, including Travelers’ Diarrhea USE(S) relieves symptoms of diarrhea plus bloating, pressure and cramps, commonly referred to as gas Use controls symptoms of diarrhea, including Travelers' Diarrhea INDICATIONS AND USAGE Loperamide hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the control and symptomatic relief of acute nonspecific diarrhea in patients 2 years of age and older and of chronic diarrhea in adults associated with inflammatory bowel disease. Loperamide hydrochloride capsules are also indicated for reducing the volume of discharge from ileostomies. Use ​Use Controls symptoms of diarrhea, including Travelers’ Diarrhea Uses relieves symptoms of diarrhea plus bloating, pressure and cramps, commonly referred to as gas Uses Controls the symptoms of diarrhea, including Travelers diarrhea.
Dosage: Directions • drink plenty of clear fluids to help prevent dehydration caused by diarrhea • find right dose on chart. If possible, use weight to dose; otherwise use age. • shake well before using • use only enclosed dosing cup specifically designed for use with this product. Do not use any other dosing device. • mL = milliliter adults and children 12 years and over 30 mL after the first loose stool; 15 mL after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 60 mL in 24 hours children 9-11 years (60-95 lbs) 15 mL after the first loose stool; 7.5 mL after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 45 mL in 24 hours children 6-8 years (48-59 lbs) 15 mL after the first loose stool; 7.5 mL after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 30 mL in 24 hours children 2-5 years (34 to 47 lbs) ask a doctor children under 2 years (up to 33 lbs) do not use DIRECTIONS • drink plenty of clear fluids to help prevent dehydration caused by diarrhea • take only on an empty stomach (1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal) • take with a full (8 oz.) glass of water • find right dose on chart below. If possible, use weight to dose; otherwise, use age. adults and children 12 years and over 2 tablets after the first loose stool; 1 tablet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 4 tablets in 24 hours children 9-11 years (60-95 lbs) 1 tablet after the first loose stool; 1/2 tablet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 3 tablets in 24 hours children 6-8 years (48-59 lbs) 1 tablet after the first loose stool; 1/2 tablet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 2 tablets in 24 hours children 2-5 years (34 to 47 lbs) ask a doctor children under 2 years (up to 33 lbs) do not use Directions drink plenty of clear fluids to help prevent dehydration caused by diarrhea find right dose on chart. adults and children 12 years and over 2 caplets after the first loose stool; 1 caplet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 4 caplets in 24 hours children 9-11 years (60-95 lbs) 1 caplet after the first loose stool; 1/2 caplet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 3 caplets in 24 hours children 6-8 years (48-59 lbs) 1 caplet after the first loose stool; 1/2 caplet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 2 caplets in 24 hours children 2-5 years (34 to 47 lbs) ask a doctor children under 2 years (up to 33 lbs) do not use adults and children 12 years and over 2 caplets after the first loose stool; 1 caplet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 4 caplets in 24 hours children 9-11 years (60-95 lbs) 1 caplet after the first loose stool; ½ caplet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 3 caplets in 24 hours children 6-8 years (48-59 lbs) 1 caplet after the first loose stool; ½ caplet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 2 caplets in 24 hours children 2-5 years (34 to 47 lbs) ask a doctor children under 2 years (up to 33 lbs) do not use DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Loperamide hydrochloride capsules USP are contraindicated in pediatric patients less than 2 years of age due to the risks of respiratory depression and serious cardiac adverse reactions (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Avoid loperamide hydrochloride capsules dosages higher than recommended in adult or pediatric patients 2 years of age and older due to the risk of serious cardiac adverse reactions (see WARNINGS , OVERDOSAGE ). (1 capsule = 2 mg) Patients should receive appropriate fluid and electrolyte replacement as needed. Acute Diarrhea Adults and Pediatric Patients 13 Years and Older: The recommended initial dose is 4 mg (two capsules) followed by 2 mg (one capsule) after each unformed stool. The maximum daily dose is 16 mg (eight capsules). Clinical improvement is usually observed within 48 hours. Pediatric Patients 2 to 12 Years of Age: In pediatric patients 2 to 5 years of age (20 kg or less), the non-prescription liquid formulation of loperamide (1 mg/5 mL) should be used; for ages 6 to 12, either loperamide hydrochloride capsules or liquid formulation of loperamide may be used. For pediatric patients 2 to 12 years of age, the following schedule for capsules or liquid will usually fulfill initial dosage requirements: Recommended First Day Dosage Schedule Two to five years (13 kg to 20 kg): 1 mg three times daily (3 mg total daily dosage) Six to eight years (20 kg to 30 kg): 2 mg twice daily (4 mg total daily dosage) Eight to twelve years (greater than 30 kg): 2 mg three times daily (6 mg total daily dosage) Recommended Subsequent Daily Dosage Following the first treatment day, it is recommended that subsequent loperamide hydrochloride capsules doses (1 mg/10 kg body weight) be administered only after a loose stool. Total daily dosage should not exceed recommended dosages for the first day. Chronic Diarrhea Adults The recommended initial dose is 4 mg (two capsule) followed by 2 mg (one capsule) after each unformed stool until diarrhea is controlled, after which the dosage of loperamide hydrochloride capsules should be reduced to meet individual requirements. When the optimal daily dosage has been established, this amount may then be administered as a single dose or in divided doses. The average daily maintenance dosage in clinical trials was 4 mg to 8 mg (two to four capsules per day). The maximum daily dosage is 16 mg (eight capsules per day). If clinical improvement is not observed after treatment with 16 mg per day for at least 10 days, symptoms are unlikely to be controlled by further administration. Loperamide hydrochloride capsules administration may be continued if diarrhea cannot be adequately controlled with diet or specific treatment. Elderly No formal pharmacokinetic studies were conducted in elderly subjects. However, there were no major differences reported in the drug disposition in elderly patients with diarrhea relative to young patients. No dose adjustment is required for the elderly. In general, elderly patients may be more susceptible to drug-associated effects of the QT interval. Avoid loperamide hydrochloride capsules in elderly patients taking drugs that can result in prolongation of the QT interval (for example, Class IA or III antiarrhythmics) or in patients with risk factors for Torsades de Pointes (see WARNINGS ). Renal Impairment No pharmacokinetic data are available in patients with renal impairment. Since the metabolites and the unchanged drug are mainly excreted in the feces, no dosage adjustment is required for patients with renal impairment (see PRECAUTIONS ). Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of loperamide have not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment. Use loperamide hydrochloride capsules with caution in such patients because the systemic exposure may be increased due to reduced metabolism (see PRECAUTIONS ). adults and children 12 years and over 2 caplets after the first loose stool; 1 caplet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 4 caplets in 24 hours children 9-11 years (60-95 lbs) 1 caplet after the first loose stool; 1/2 caplet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 3 caplets in 24 hours children 6-8 years (48-59 lbs) 1 caplet after the first loose stool; 1/2 caplet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 2 caplets in 24 hours children 2-5 years (34-47 lbs) ask a doctor children under 2 years (up to 33 lbs) do not use Directions Directions drink plenty of clear fluids to help prevent dehydration caused by diarrhea find right dose on chart. adults and children 12 years and over 2 caplets after the first loose stool; 1 caplet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 4 caplets in 24 hours children 9 - 11 years (60 - 95 lbs) 1 caplet after the first loose stool; 1/2 caplet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 3 caplets in 24 hours children 6 - 8 years (48 - 59 lbs) 1 caplet after the first loose stool; 1/2 caplet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 2 caplets in 24 hours children 2 - 5 years (34 - 47 lbs) ask a doctor children under 2 (up to 33 lbs) do not use Directions drink plenty of clear fluids to help prevent dehydration caused by diarrhea. not for use in children under 12 years of age adults and children 12 years and over: 2 softgels after the first loose stool; 1 softgel after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 4 softgels in 24 hours Directions do not use more than directed drink plenty of clear fluids to help prevent dehydration caused by diarrhea Adults and children (12 years and older): Take 2 caplets after the first loose stool followed by 1 caplet after each subsequent loose stool but no more than 4 caplets in 24 hours. Children under 12 years: Do not give to children under 12 years of age.
Warnings: Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you have ever had a rash or other allergic reaction to loperamide HCl Heart alert: Taking more than directed can cause serious heart problems or death Do not use if you have bloody or black stool Ask a doctor before use if you have • fever • mucus in the stool • a history of liver disease • a history of abnormal heart rhythm Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug. Loperamide may interact with certain prescription drugs. When using this product tiredness, drowsiness or dizziness may occur. Be careful when driving or operating machinery. Stop use and ask a doctor if • symptoms get worse • diarrhea lasts for more than 2 days • you get abdominal swelling or bulging. These may be signs of a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222) WARNINGS Allergy alert: Do not use if you have ever had a rash or other allergic reaction to loperamide hydrochloride Heart alert: Taking more than directed can cause serious heart problems or death Warnings Allergy alert Do not use if you have ever had a rash or other allergic reaction to loperamide HCl Heart alert Taking more than directed can cause serious heart problems or death Do not use if you have bloody or black stool Ask a doctor before use if you have fever mucus in the stool a history of liver disease a history of abnormal heart rhythm Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug. Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms get worse diarrhea lasts for more than 2 days you get abdominal swelling or bulging. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Warnings Allergy alert Do not use if you have ever had a rash or other allergic reaction to loperamide hydrochloride Heart alert Taking more than directed can cause serious heart problems or death Do not use if you have bloody or black stool Ask a doctor before use if you have fever mucus in the stool a history of liver disease a history of abnormal heart rhythm Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug. WARNINGS Cardiac Adverse Reactions, Including Torsades de Pointes and Sudden Death Cases of prolongation of the QT/QTc interval, Torsades de Pointes, other ventricular arrhythmias, cardiac arrest, some resulting in death, have been reported in adults with use of higher than recommended doses per day of loperamide hydrochloride capsules. Cases include patients who were abusing or misusing loperamide hydrochloride (see OVERDOSAGE and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ). Cases of syncope and ventricular tachycardia have been reported in adult patients receiving the recommended dosage of loperamide hydrochloride capsules. Some of these patients were taking other drugs or had other risk factors that may have increased their risk of cardiac adverse reactions. Additionally, postmarketing cases of cardiac arrest, syncope, and respiratory depression have been reported in pediatric patients less than 2 years of age. Loperamide hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in pediatric patients less than 2 years of age due to the risks of respiratory depression and serious cardiac adverse reactions. Avoid loperamide hydrochloride capsules dosages higher than recommended in adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older due to the risk of serious cardiac adverse reactions (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION and OVERDOSAGE ). Avoid loperamide hydrochloride capsules in: combination with others drugs or herbal products that are known to prolong the QT interval, including Class 1A (e.g., quinidine, procainamide) or Class III (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol) antiarrhythmics, antipsychotics (e.g., chlorpromazine, haloperidol, thioridazine, ziprasidone), antibiotics (e.g., moxifloxacin), or any other drug known to prolong the QT interval (e.g., pentamidine, levomethadyl acetate, methadone). patients with risk factors for QT prolongation, including patients with congenital long QT syndrome, with a history of cardiac arrhythmias or other cardiac conditions, elderly patients and those with electrolyte abnormalities. Dehydration Fluid and electrolyte depletion often occur in patients who have diarrhea. In such cases, administration of appropriate fluid and electrolytes is very important. The use of loperamide hydrochloride capsules does not preclude the need for appropriate fluid and electrolyte therapy. Gastrointestinal Disorders In general, loperamide hydrochloride capsules should not be used when inhibition of peristalsis is to be avoided due to the possible risk of significant sequelae including ileus, megacolon and toxic megacolon. Loperamide hydrochloride capsules must be discontinued promptly when constipation, abdominal distention or ileus develop. Treatment of diarrhea with loperamide hydrochloride capsules is only symptomatic. Whenever an underlying etiology can be determined, specific treatment should be given when appropriate (or when indicated). Patients with AIDS treated with loperamide hydrochloride capsules for diarrhea should have therapy stopped at the earliest signs of abdominal distention. There have been isolated reports of toxic megacolon in AIDS patients with infectious colitis from both viral and bacterial pathogens treated with loperamide hydrochloride. Variability in Pediatric Response Loperamide hydrochloride capsules should be used with special caution in pediatric patients because of the greater variability of response in this age group. Dehydration, particularly in pediatric patients less than 6 years of age, may further influence the variability of response to loperamide hydrochloride capsules. Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you have ever had a rash or other allergic reaction to loperamide HCI Heart alert: Taking more than directed can cause serious heart problems or death Do not use if you have bloody or black stool Ask a doctor before use if you have fever mucus in the stool a history of liver disease a history of abnormal heart rhythm Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings ​Warnings Allergy alert Allergy alert: Do not use if you have ever had a rash or other allergic reaction to Loperamide HCl. Heart alert Heart alert: Taking more than directed can cause serious heart problems or death. Do not use Do not use if you have bloody or black stool Ask a doctor before use if you have Ask a doctor before use if you have fever mucus in the stool a history of liver disease a history of abnormal heart rhythm Ask a doctor or pharmacist Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug. When using this product When using this product tiredness, drowsiness or dizziness may occur. Stop use and ask a doctor if Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms get worse diarrhea lasts for more than 2 days you get abdominal swelling or bulging. If pregnant or breast-feeding If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children. Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you have ever had a rash or other allergic reaction to loperamide HCl Heart alert: Taking more than directed can cause serious heart problems or death Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you have ever had a rash or other allergic reaction to loperamide HCl Heart alert: Taking more than directed can cause serious heart problems or death Do not use • if you have bloody or black stool • if you have difficulty swallowing Ask a doctor before use if you have • fever • mucus in the stool • a history of liver disease • a history of abnormal heart rhythm Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug. • you have difficulty swallowing the caplet If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you have ever had a rash or other allergic reaction to Loperamide HCl Do not use if you have bloody or black stool Ask a doctor before use if you have a fever mucus in stool a history of liver disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking antibiotics When using this product tiredness, drowsiness or dizziness may occur be careful when driving or operating machinery Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms get worse diarrhea lasts more than 2 days you get abdominal swelling or bulging. If you are pregnant or breast feeding , ask a health professional before use. Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children . In case of accidental overdose, contact a physician or Poison Control Center right away.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Loperamide hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in: pediatric patients less than 2 years of age due to the risks of respiratory depression and serious cardiac adverse reactions (see WARNINGS ). patients with a known hypersensitivity to loperamide hydrochloride or to any of the excipients. patients with abdominal pain in the absence of diarrhea. patients with acute dysentery, which is characterized by blood in stools and high fever. patients with acute ulcerative colitis. patients with bacterial enterocolitis caused by invasive organisms including Salmonella , Shigella , and Campylobacter . patients with pseudomembranous colitis (e.g., Clostridium difficle ) associated with the use of broad-spectrum antibiotics.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Effects of Other Drugs on Loperamide Concomitant use of loperamide hydrochloride capsules with inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., itraconazole) or CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil) or inhibitors of P-glycoprotein (e.g., quinidine, ritonavir) can increase exposure to loperamide. The increased systemic exposure to loperamide may increase a risk for cardiac adverse reactions especially in patients who are taking multiple CYP enzyme inhibitors, or in patients with underlying cardiac conditions (see WARNINGS ). Monitor patients for cardiac adverse reactions. CYP3A4 Inhibitors Itraconazole Concomitant administration of multiple doses of 100 mg itraconazole twice daily, an inhibitor of both CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein, with a single 4 mg dose of loperamide hydrochloride increased the peak plasma concentration and the systemic exposure to loperamide by 2.9-fold and 3.8-fold, respectively. CYP2C8 Inhibitors Gemfibrozil When a single 4 mg dose of loperamide hydrochloride was coadministered with 600 mg gemfibrozil, a strong inhibitor of CYP2C8, on day 3 of a 5-day treatment with gemfibrozil twice daily, the mean peak plasma concentration and the systemic exposure to loperamide was increased by 1.6-fold and 2.2-fold, respectively. CYP3A4 and CYP2C8 Inhibitors When multiple doses of both 100 mg itraconazole and 600 mg gemfibrozil twice daily were administered with a single 4 mg dose of loperamide hydrochloride, the mean peak plasma concentration and the systemic exposure to loperamide was increased by 4.2-fold and 12.6-fold, respectively. P-glycoprotein Inhibitors Concomitant administration of a 16 mg single dose of loperamide hydrochloride with a 600 mg single dose of quinidine or ritonavir, both of which are P-glycoprotein inhibitors, resulted in a 2- to 3-fold increase in loperamide plasma concentrations. Due to the potential for enhanced CNS adverse reactions when loperamide is coadministered with quinidine and with ritonavir, caution should be exercised when loperamide hydrochloride capsules are administered at the recommended dosages (2 mg, up to 16 mg maximum daily dose) with P-glycoprotein inhibitors. Effects of Loperamide on Other Drugs Saquinavir When a single 16 mg dose of loperamide hydrochloride is coadministered with a 600 mg single dose of saquinavir, loperamide decreased saquinavir exposure by 54%, which may be of clinical relevance due to reduction of therapeutic efficacy of saquinavir. The effect of saquinavir on loperamide is of less clinical significance. Therefore, when loperamide hydrochloride capsules are given with saquinavir, the therapeutic efficacy of saquinavir should be closely monitored. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility In an 18-month rat study with oral loperamide hydrochloride doses up to 40 mg/kg/day (21 times the maximum human dose of 16 mg/day, based on a body surface area comparison), there was no evidence of carcinogenesis. Loperamide was not genotoxic in the Ames test, the SOS chromotest in E. coli, the dominant lethal test in female mice, or the mouse embryo cell transformation assay. Fertility and reproductive performance was evaluated in rats using oral doses of 2.5 mg/kg/day, 10 mg/kg/day, and 40 mg/kg/day (females only) in a second study. Oral administration of 20 mg/kg/day (approximately 11 times the human dose based on a body surface area comparison) and higher, produced a strong impairment of female fertility. Treatment of female rats with up to 10 mg/kg/day (approximately 5 times the human dose based on a body surface area comparison) had no effect on fertility. Treatment of male rats with oral doses of 40 mg/kg/day (approximately 21 times the human dose based on a body surface area comparison) produced impairment of male fertility, whereas administration of up to 10 mg/kg/day (approximately 5 times the human dose based on a body surface area comparison) had no effect.

=== GLYCOPYRROLATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE In Anesthesia Glycopyrrolate Injection is indicated for use as a preoperative antimuscarinic to reduce salivary, tracheobronchial, and pharyngeal secretions; to reduce the volume and free acidity of gastric secretions; and to block cardiac vagal inhibitory reflexes during induction of anesthesia and intubation. When indicated, Glycopyrrolate Injection may be used intraoperatively to counteract surgically or drug-induced or vagal reflexes associated arrhythmias. Glycopyrrolate protects against the peripheral muscarinic effects (e.g., bradycardia and excessive secretions) of cholinergic agents such as neostigmine and pyridostigmine given to reverse the neuromuscular blockade due to non-depolarizing muscle relaxants. In Peptic Ulcer For use in adults to reduce symptoms of a peptic ulcer as an adjunct to treatment of peptic ulcer when rapid anticholinergic effect is desired or when oral medication is not tolerated. Limitations of Use Glycopyrrolate Injection is not indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of peptic ulcer because effectiveness in peptic ulcer healing has not been established. In Peptic Ulcer For use in adults as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of peptic ulcer when rapid anticholinergic effect is desired or when oral medication is not tolerated. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Glycopyrrolate tablets are indicated in adults to reduce symptoms of a peptic ulcer as an adjunct to treatment of peptic ulcer. Limitations of Use Glycopyrrolate tablets are not indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of peptic ulcer because effectiveness in peptic ulcer healing has not been established. Glycopyrrolate tablets are anticholinergics indicated in adults to reduce symptoms of a peptic ulcer as an adjunct to treatment of peptic ulcer. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use: Not indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of peptic ulcer because effectiveness in peptic ulcer healing has not been established. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Glycopyrrolate oral solution is indicated to reduce chronic severe drooling in patients aged 3 to 16 years with neurologic conditions associated with problem drooling (e.g., cerebral palsy). Glycopyrrolate oral solution is an anticholinergic indicated to reduce chronic severe drooling in patients aged 3 to 16 years with neurologic conditions associated with problem drooling (e.g., cerebral palsy). (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Glycopyrrolate Injection is an anticholinergic indicated: in anesthesia (adult and pediatric patients) for reduction of salivary, tracheobronchial, and pharyngeal secretions, reduction of volume and acidity of gastric secretions, and blockade of cardiac inhibitory reflexes during induction of anesthesia and intubation. intraoperatively to counteract surgically or drug-induced or vagal reflex-associated arrhythmias. for protection against peripheral muscarinic effects of cholinergic agents. (1) in peptic ulcer (adults) To reduce symptoms of a peptic ulcer as an adjunct to treatment of peptic ulcer when rapid anticholinergic effect is desired or oral medication is not tolerated. 1.1 Preanesthetic Glycopyrrolate injection is indicated in adults and pediatric patients for reduction of salivary, tracheobronchial, and pharyngeal secretions, reduction of volume and acidity of gastric secretions, and blockade of cardiac inhibitory reflexes during induction of anesthesia and intubation. 1.2 Intraoperative Glycopyrrolate injection is indicated in adults and pediatric patients to counteract surgically or drug-induced or vagal reflex-associated arrhythmias. 1.3 Reversal of Neuromuscular Blockade Glycopyrrolate injection is indicated in adults and pediatric patients for protection against peripheral muscarinic effects of cholinergic agents such as neostigmine and pyridostigmine given to reverse the neuromuscular blockade due to non-depolarizing agents. 1.4 Peptic Ulcer Glycopyrrolate injection is indicated in adults to reduce symptoms of a peptic ulcer as an adjunct to treatment of peptic ulcer when rapid anticholinergic effect is desired or when oral medication is not tolerated. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Glycopyrrolate are indicated in adults to reduce symptoms of a peptic ulcer as an adjunct to treatment of peptic ulcer. Limitations of Use Glycopyrrolate are not indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of peptic ulcer because effectiveness in peptic ulcer healing has not been established. Glycopyrrolate are anticholinergics indicated in adults to reduce symptoms of a peptic ulcer as an adjunct to treatment of peptic ulcer. (1) Limitations of Use: Not indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of peptic ulcer because effectiveness in peptic ulcer healing has not been established. INDICATIONS AND USAGE For use as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of peptic ulcer. When indicated, glycopyrrolate injection may be used intraoperatively to counteract surgically or drug- induced or vagal reflexes associated arrhythmias. INDICATIONS For use as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of peptic ulcer.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION NOTE: CONTAINS BENZYL ALCOHOL ( see PRECAUTIONS ). Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. For single-dose vials only, discard unused portion. Glycopyrrolate injection may be administered intramuscularly, or intravenously, without dilution, in the following indications. Adults PREANESTHETIC MEDICATION The recommended dose of glycopyrrolate injection is 0.004 mg/kg by intramuscular injection, given 30 to 60 minutes prior to the anticipated time of induction of anesthesia or at the time the preanesthetic narcotic and/or sedative are administered. INTRAOPERATIVE MEDICATION Glycopyrrolate injection may be used during surgery to counteract drug-induced or vagal reflexes and their associated arrhythmias (e.g., bradycardia). It should be administered intravenously as single doses of 0.1 mg and repeated, as needed, at intervals of 2 to 3 minutes. The usual attempts should be made to determine the etiology of the arrhythmia, and the surgical or anesthetic manipulations necessary to correct parasympathetic imbalance should be performed. REVERSAL OF NEUROMUSCULAR BLOCKADE The recommended dose of glycopyrrolate injection is 0.2 mg for each 1 mg of neostigmine or 5 mg of pyridostigmine. In order to minimize the appearance of cardiac side effects, the drugs may be administered simultaneously by intravenous injection and may be mixed in the same syringe. PEPTIC ULCER The usual recommended dose of glycopyrrolate injection is 0.1 mg administered at 4-hour intervals, 3 or 4 times daily intravenously or intramuscularly. Where more profound effect is required, 0.2 mg may be given. Some patients may need only a single dose, and frequency of administration should be dictated by patient response up to a maximum of four times daily. Glycopyrrolate injection is not recommended for the treatment of peptic ulcer in pediatric patients (see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use ). Pediatric Patients (see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use ) PREANESTHETIC MEDICATION The recommended dose of glycopyrrolate injection in pediatric patients is 0.004 mg/kg intramuscularly, given 30 to 60 minutes prior to the anticipated time of induction of anesthesia or at the time the preanesthetic narcotic and/or sedative are administered. INFANTS (1 month to 2 years of age) may require up to 0.009 mg/kg. INTRAOPERATIVE MEDICATION Because of the long duration of action of glycopyrrolate injection if used as preanesthetic medication, additional glycopyrrolate injection for anticholinergic effect intraoperatively is rarely needed; in the event it is required the recommended pediatric dose is 0.004 mg/kg intravenously, not to exceed 0.1 mg in a single dose which may be repeated, as needed, at intervals of 2 to 3 minutes. REVERSAL OF NEUROMUSCULAR BLOCKADE The recommended pediatric dose of glycopyrrolate injection is 0.2 mg for each 1 mg of neostigmine or 5 mg of pyridostigmine. PEPTIC ULCER Glycopyrrolate injection is not recommended for the treatment of peptic ulcer in pediatric patients (see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use ). Diluent Compatibilities Dextrose 5% and 10% in water, or saline, dextrose 5% in sodium chloride 0.45%, sodium chloride 0.9%, and Ringer's Injection. Diluent Incompatibilities Lactated Ringer's solution Admixture Compatibilities PHYSICAL COMPATIBILITY This list does not constitute an endorsement of the clinical utility or safety of co-administration of glycopyrrolate with these drugs. Glycopyrrolate injection is compatible for mixing and injection with the following injectable dosage forms: atropine sulfate, USP; Antilirium ® (physostigmine salicylate); Benadryl ® (diphenhydramine HCl); codeine phosphate, USP; Emete-Con ® (benz-quinamide HCl); hydromorphone HCl, USP; Inapsine ® (droperidol); Levo-Dromoran ® (levorphanol tartrate); lidocaine, USP; meperidine HCl, USP; Mestinon ® /Regonol ® (pyridostigmine bromide); morphine sulfate, USP; Nubain ® (nalbuphine HCl); Numorphan ® (oxymorphone HCl); procaine HCl, USP; promethazine HCl, USP; Prostigmin ® (neostigmine methylsulfate, USP); scopolamine HBr, USP; Stadol ® (butorphanol tartrate); Sublimaze ® (fentanyl citrate); Tigan ® (trimethobenzamide HCl); and Vistaril ® (hydroxyzine HCl). Glycopyrrolate injection may be administered via the tubing of a running infusion of normal saline. Admixture Incompatibilities PHYSICAL INCOMPATIBILITY Since the stability of glycopyrrolate is questionable above a pH of 6.0 do not combine glycopyrrolate injection in the same syringe with Brevital ® (methohexital Na); Chloromycetin ® (chloramphenicol Na succinate); Dramamine ® (dimenhydrinate); Nembutal ® (pentobarbital Na); Pentothal ® (thiopental Na); Seconal ® (secobarbital Na); sodium bicarbonate (Abbott); Valium ® (diazepam); Decadron ® (dexamethasone Na phosphate); or Talwin ® (pentazocine lactate). These mixtures will result in a pH higher than 6.0 and may result in gas production or precipitation. Glycopyrrolate injection is compatible for mixing and injection with the following injectable dosage forms: atropine sulfate, USP; Antilirium ® (physostigmine salicylate); Benadryl ® (diphenhydramine HCl); codeine phosphate, USP; Emete-Con ® (benzquinamide HCl); hydromorphone HCl, USP; Inapsine ® (droperidol); Levo-Dromoran ® (levorphanol tartrate); lidocaine, USP; meperidine HCl, USP; Mestinon ® /Regonol ® (pyridostigmine bromide); morphine sulfate, USP; Nubain ® (nalbuphine HCl); Numorphan ® (oxymorphone HCl); procaine HCl, USP; promethazine HCl, USP; Prostigmin ® (neostigmine methylsulfate, USP); scopolamine HBr, USP; Stadol ® (butorphanol tartrate); Sublimaze ® (fentanyl citrate); Tigan ® (trimethobenzamide HCl); and Vistaril ® (hydroxyzine HCl). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION NOTE: CONTAINS BENZYL ALCOHOL (see PRECAUTIONS) Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. REVERSAL OF NEUROMUSCULAR BLOCKADE The recommended dose of glycopyrrolate injection is 0.2 mg for each 1.0 mg of neostigmine or 5.0 mg of pyridostigmine. Glycopyrrolate injection is not recommended for the treatment of peptic ulcer in pediatric patients (see PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use ). Pediatric Patients (see PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use) PREANESTHETIC MEDICATION The recommended dose of glycopyrrolate injection in pediatric patients is 0.004 mg/kg intramuscularly, given 30 to 60 minutes prior to the anticipated time of induction of anesthesia or at the time the preanesthetic narcotic and/or sedative are administered. REVERSAL OF NEUROMUSCULAR BLOCKADE The recommended pediatric dose of glycopyrrolate injection is 0.2 mg for each 1.0 mg of neostigmine or 5.0 mg of pyridostigmine. PEPTIC ULCER Glycopyrrolate injection is not recommended for the treatment of peptic ulcer in pediatric patients (see PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use). Diluent Compatibilities Dextrose 5% and 10% in water, or saline, dextrose 5% in sodium chloride 0.45%, sodium chloride 0.9%, and Ringer’s Injection. Diluent Incompatibilities Lactated Ringer’s solution Admixture Compatibilities PHYSICAL COMPATIBILITY This list does not constitute an endorsement of the clinical utility or safety of co-administration of glycopyrrolate with these drugs. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Dosing Information ( 2.1 ) Glycopyrrolate tablets 2 mg are not recommended for patients initiating treatment or receiving maintenance treatment with glycopyrrolate tablets 1 mg or another 1 mg dosage strength of oral glycopyrrolate tablets. Recommended Dosage ( 2.2 ) The recommended initial dosage of glycopyrrolate tablets 1 mg is 1 mg three times daily (in the morning, early afternoon, and at bedtime). Some patients may require 2 mg at bedtime to assure overnight control of symptoms. For maintenance, a dosage of 1 mg twice a day is frequently adequate. The recommended dosage of glycopyrrolate tablets 2 mg for adults is 2 mg two or three times daily at equally spaced intervals. The maximum recommended daily dosage is 8 mg. Use the lowest effective dosage of glycopyrrolate to control symptoms. If patients can be titrated to a lower dose, switch from glycopyrrolate tablets 2 mg to glycopyrrolate tablets 1 mg or another 1 mg oral tablet of glycopyrrolate. 2.1 Important Dosing Information Glycopyrrolate tablets 2 mg are not recommended for patients in whom a lower dosage strength of oral glycopyrrolate (e.g., glycopyrrolate tablets 1 mg or another 1 mg tablet strength) is appropriate for initial or maintenance treatment because the dosage strength of glycopyrrolate tablets may exceed the recommended initial and maintenance dosage of oral glycopyrrolate tablets. 2.2 Recommended Dosage The recommended initial dosage of glycopyrrolate tablets 1 mg for adults is 1 mg three times daily (in the morning, early afternoon, and at bedtime). The maximum recommended daily dosage of glycopyrrolate is 8 mg. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Glycopyrrolate oral solution must be measured and administered with an accurate measuring device [see Patient Counseling Information (17) ]. Initiate dosing at 0.02 mg/kg orally three times daily and titrate in increments of 0.02 mg/kg every 5 to 7 days based on therapeutic response and adverse reactions. The maximum recommended dosage is 0.1 mg/kg three times daily not to exceed 1.5 to 3 mg per dose based upon weight. For greater detail, see Table 1. During the four-week titration period, dosing can be increased with the recommended dose titration schedule while ensuring that the anticholinergic adverse events are tolerable. Prior to each increase in dose, review the tolerability of the current dose level with the patient's caregiver. Glycopyrrolate oral solution should be dosed at least one hour before or two hours after meals. The presence of high fat food reduces the oral bioavailability of Glycopyrrolate oral solution if taken shortly after a meal [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 1: Recommended Dose Titration Schedule (each dose to be given three times daily) Weight Dose Level 1 Dose Level 2 Dose Level 3 Dose Level 4 Dose Level 5 kg lbs (⁓0.02 mg/kg) (⁓0.04 mg/kg) (⁓0.06 mg/kg) (⁓0.08 mg/kg) (⁓0.1 mg/kg) 13-17 27-38 0.3 mg 1.5 mL 0.6 mg 3 mL 0.9 mg 4.5 mL 1.2 mg 6 mL 1.5 mg 7.5 mL 18-22 39-49 0.4 mg 2 mL 0.8 mg 4 mL 1.2 mg 6 mL 1.6 mg 8 mL 2 mg 10 mL 23-27 50-60 0.5 mg 2.5 mL 1 mg 5 mL 1.5mg 7.5 mL 2 mg 10mL 2.5 mg 12.5mL 28-32 61-71 0.6 mg 3 mL 1.2 mg 6 mL 1.8 mg 9 mL 2.4 mg 12 mL 3 mg 15 mL 33-37 72-82 0.7 mg 3.5 mL 1.4 mg 7 mL 2.1 mg 10.5 mL 2.8 mg 14 mL 3 mg 15 mL 38-42 83-93 0.8 mg 4 mL 1.6 mg 8 mL 2.4 mg 12 mL 3 mg 15 mL 3 mg 15 mL 43-47 94-104 0.9 mg 4.5 mL 1.8 mg 9 mL 2.7 mg 13.5 mL 3 mg 15 mL 3 mg 15 mL ≥48 ≥105 1 mg 5 mL 2 mg 10 mL 3 mg 15 mL 3 mg 15 mL 3 mg 15 mL Initiate dosing at 0.02 mg/kg three times daily and titrate in increments of 0.02 mg/kg every 5 to 7 days, based on therapeutic response and adverse reactions. (2) Maximum recommended dose is 0.1 mg/kg three times daily, not to exceed 1.5 to 3 mg per dose based upon weight. (2) Administer at least one hour before or two hours after meals. (2) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Glycopyrrolate Injection may be administered intramuscularly (IM), or intravenously (IV) without dilution, in the following indications. (2.1): Adults (2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5) Preanesthetic Medication: 0.004 mg/kg IM, given 30 to 60 minutes prior to the anticipated time of induction of anesthesia Intraoperative Medication: single doses of 0.1 mg IV and repeated, as needed, at intervals of 2 to 3 minutes Reversal of Neuromuscular Blockade: 0.2 mg for each 1 mg of neostigmine or 5 mg of pyridostigmine Peptic Ulcer: 0.1 mg IV or IM at 4-hour intervals, 3 or 4 times daily Pediatric patients (2.2, 2.3, 2.4) Preanesthetic Medication: 0.004 mg/kg IM, given 30 to 60 minutes prior to the anticipated time of induction of anesthesia. Patients under 2 years of age may require up to 0.009 mg/kg Intraoperative Medication: 0.004 mg/kg IV, not to exceed 0.1 mg in a single dose and repeated, as needed, at intervals of 2 to 3 minutes Reversal of Neuromuscular Blockade: 0.2 mg IV for each 1 mg of neostigmine or 5 mg of pyridostigmine Peptic Ulcer: Glycopyrrolate Injection is not indicated for the treatment of peptic ulcer in pediatric patients 2.2 Recommended Dosage of Preanesthetic Medication in Adults and Pediatric Patients The recommended dose of Glycopyrrolate injection is 0.004 mg/kg by intramuscular injection, given 30 to 60 minutes prior to the anticipated time of induction of anesthesia or at the time the preanesthetic narcotic and/or sedative are administered. Patients less than 2 years of age may require up to 0.009 mg/kg. 2.3 Recommended Dosage as Intraoperative Medication to Counteract Drug-induced or Vagal Reflexes and Their Associated Arrhythmias (e.g., bradycardia) in Adults and Pediatric Patients The recommended adult dose of Glycopyrrolate injection is 0.1 mg intravenously. Repeat this dose, as needed, at intervals of 2 to 3 minutes. The recommended pediatric dosage is 0.004 mg/kg intravenously, not to exceed 0.1 mg in a single dose, repeated every 2 to 3 minutes. Attempt to determine the etiology of the arrhythmia, and perform the surgical or anesthetic manipulations necessary to correct parasympathetic imbalance. Because of the long duration of action of Glycopyrrolate injection if used as preanesthetic medication, additional Glycopyrrolate injection for anticholinergic effect intraoperatively is rarely needed. 2.4 Recommended Dosage for Reversal of Neuromuscular Blockade in Adults and Pediatric Patients The recommended dose of Glycopyrrolate injection is 0.2 mg IV for each 1 mg of neostigmine or 5 mg of pyridostigmine. In order to minimize the appearance of cardiac side effects, the drugs may be administered simultaneously by intravenous injection. 2.5 Recommended Dosage for Peptic Ulcer in Adults The recommended dosage of Glycopyrrolate injection is 0.1 mg administered at 4-hour intervals, 3 or 4 times daily, intravenously or intramuscularly. Some patients may need only a single dose. Frequency of administration should be dictated by patient response up to a maximum of four times daily. 2.6 Preparation and Handling Diluent Compatibilities Dextrose 5% and 10% in water, or saline, dextrose 5% in sodium chloride 0.45%, sodium chloride 0.9%, and Ringer's Injection. Diluent Incompatibilities Lactated Ringer's solution. Admixture Compatibilities Physical Compatibility This list does not constitute an endorsement of the clinical utility or safety of co-administration of Glycopyrrolate injection with these drugs. Glycopyrrolate injection is compatible for mixing and injection with the following injectable dosage forms: atropine sulfate, USP; physostigmine salicylate; diphenhydramine HCl; codeine phosphate, USP; benz-quinamide HCl; hydromorphone HCl, USP; droperidol; levorphanol tartrate; lidocaine, USP; meperidine HCl, USP; pyridostigmine bromide; morphine sulfate, USP; nalbuphine HCl; oxymorphone HCl; procaine HCl, USP; promethazine HCl, USP; neostigmine methylsulfate, USP; scopolamine HBr, USP; butorphanol tartrate; fentanyl citrate; trimethobenzamide HCl; and hydroxyzine HCl. Admixture Incompatibilities Physical Incompatibility Because the stability of glycopyrrolate is questionable above a pH of 6.0 do not combine Glycopyrrolate injection in the same syringe with methohexital Na; chloramphenicol Na succinate; dimenhydrinate; pentobarbital Na; thiopental Na; secobarbital Na; sodium bicarbonate; diazepam; dexamethasone Na phosphate; or pentazocine lactate. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Important Dosing Information (2.1) • Glycopyrrolate is not recommended for patients initiating treatment or receiving maintenance treatment with glycopyrrolate or another 1 mg dosage strength of oral glycopyrrolate tablets. Recommended Dosage (2.2) • The recommended initial dosage of glycopyrrolate is 1 mg three times daily (in the morning, early afternoon, and at bedtime). • The recommended dosage of glycopyrrolate for adults is 2 mg two or three times daily at equally spaced intervals. • The maximum recommended daily dosage is 8 mg. • Use the lowest effective dosage of glycopyrrolate to control symptoms. If patients can be titrated to a lower dose, switch from glycopyrrolate or another 1 mg oral tablet of glycopyrrolate. 2.1 Important Dosing Information • Glycopyrrolate is not recommended for patients in whom a lower dosage strength of oral glycopyrrolate (e.g., glycopyrrolate or another 1 mg tablet strength) is appropriate for initial or maintenance treatment because the dosage strength of glycopyrrolate may exceed the recommended initial and maintenance dosage of oral glycopyrrolate tablets. 2.2 Recommended Dosage • The recommended initial dosage of glycopyrrolate for adults is 1 mg three times daily (in the morning, early afternoon, and at bedtime). • The maximum recommended daily dosage of glycopyrrolate is 8 mg. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of Glycopyrrolate Tablets, USP should be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient to assure symptomatic controlwith a minimum of adverse reactions. The presently recommended maximum daily dosage of glycopyrrolate is 8 mg. Glycopyrrolate Tablets, USP 1 mg The recommended initial dosage of Glycopyrrolate 1 mg tablets for adults is one tablet three times daily (in the morning, early afternoon, and at bedtime). Some patients may require two tablets at bedtime to assure overnight control of symptoms. For maintenance, a dosage of one tablet twice a day is frequently adequate. Glycopyrrolate Tablets, USP 2 mg The recommended dosage of Glycopyrrolate 2 mg tablets for adults is one tablet two or three times daily at equally spaced intervals. Glycopyrrolate Tablets, USP 1.5 mg The Glycopyrrolate 1.5 mg tablets may be used to provide intermediate titration doses based on response of the patient. Glycopyrrolate Tablets, USP are not recommended for use in pediatric patients under the age of 12 years. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION NOTE: CONTAINS BENZYL ALCOHOL (see PRECAUTIONS ) Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit.Glycopyrrolate Injection may be administered intramuscularly, or intravenously, without dilution, in the following indications. Adults PREANESTHETIC MEDICATION The recommended dose of gllycopyrrolate injection is 0.004 mg/kg by intramuscular injection, given 30 to 60 minutes prior to the anticipated time of induction of anesthesia or at the time the preanesthetic narcotic and/or sedative are administered. Pediatric Patients (see PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use ) PREANESTHETIC MEDICATION The recommended dose of glycopyrrolate injection in pediatric patients is 0.004 mg/kg intramuscularly, given 30 to 60 minutes prior to the anticipated time of induction of anesthesia or at the time the preanesthetic narcotic and/or sedative are administered. PEPTIC ULCER Glycopyrrolate Injection is not recommended for the treatment of peptic ulcer in pediatric patients (see PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use ). Diluent Incompatibilities Lactated Ringer’s solution Admixture Compatibilities PHYSICAL COMPATIBILITY This list does not constitute an endorsement of the clinical utility or safety of co-administration of glycopyrrolate injection with these drugs. Glycopyrrolate Injection is compatible for mixing and injection with the following injectable dosage forms: atropine sulfate, USP; Antilirium® (physostigmine salicylate); Benadryl® (diphenhydramine HCl); codeine phosphate, USP; Emete-Con® (benz-quinamide HCl); hydromorphone HCl, USP; Inapsine® (droperidol); Levo-Dromoran® (levorphanol tartrate); lidocaine, USP; meperidine HCl, USP; Mestinon®/Regonol® (pyridostigmine bromide); morphine sulfate, USP; Nubain® (nalbuphine HCl); Numorphan® (oxymorphone HCl); procaine HCl, USP; promethazine HCl, USP; Prostigmin® (neostigmine methylsulfate, USP); scopolamine HBr, USP; Stadol® (butorphanol tartrate); Sublimaze® (fentanyl citrate); Tigan® (trimethobenzamide HCl); and Vistaril® (hydroxyzine HCl). Admixture Incompatibilities PHYSICAL IMCOMPATIBILITY Since the stability of glycopyrrolate is questionable above a pH of 6.0 do not combine glycopyrrolate injection in the same syringe with Brevital® (methohexital Na); Chloromycetin® (chloramphenicol Na succinate); Dramamine® (dimenhydrinate); Nembutal® (pentobarbital Na); Pentothal® (thiopental Na); Seconal® (secobarbital Na); sodium bicarbonate (Abbott); Valium® (diazepam); Decadron® (dexamethasone Na phosphate); or Talwin® (pentazocine lactate). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of glycopyrrolate should be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient to assure symptomatic control with a minimum of adverse reactions. Glycopyrrolate Tablets 1 mg. The recommended initial dosage of glycopyrrolate for adults is one tablet three times daily (in the morning, early afternoon, and at bedtime). Glycopyrrolate Tablets 2 mg. The recommended dosage of glycopyrrolate for adults is one tablet two or three times daily at equally spaced intervals. Glycopyrrolate tablets are not recommended for use in pediatric patients under the age of 12 years.
Warnings: WARNINGS This drug should be used with great caution, if at all, in patients with glaucoma. Exposure to excessive amounts of benzyl alcohol has been associated with toxicity (hypotension, metabolic acidosis), particularly in neonates, and an increased incidence of kernicterus, particularly in small preterm infants. There have been rare reports of deaths, primarily in preterm infants, associated with exposure to excessive amounts of benzyl alcohol. The amount of benzyl alcohol from medications is usually considered negligible compared to that received in flush solutions containing benzyl alcohol. Administration of high dosages of medications containing this preservative must take into account the total amount of benzyl alcohol administered. The amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occur is not known. If the patient requires more than the recommended dosages or other medications containing this preservative, the practitioner must consider the daily metabolic load of benzyl alcohol from these combined sources (see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use ). Glycopyrrolate injection may produce drowsiness or blurred vision. The patient should be cautioned regarding activities requiring mental alertness such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery or performing hazardous work while taking this drug. In addition, in the presence of fever, high environmental temperature and/or during physical exercise, heat prostration can occur with use of anticholinergic agents including glycopyrrolate (due to decreased sweating), particularly in children and the elderly. Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction, especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy. In this instance treatment with glycopyrrolate injection would be inappropriate and possibly harmful. WARNINGS In the presence of a high environmental temperature, heat prostration (fever and heat stroke due to decreased sweating) can occur with the use of Glycopyrrolate Tablets, USP. In this instance treatment with this drug would be inappropriate and possibly harmful. Glycopyrrolate Tablets, USP may produce drowsiness or blurred vision. In this event, the patient should be warned not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery, or performing hazardous work while taking this drug. Theoretically, with overdosage, a curare-like action may occur, i.e., neuromuscular blockade leading to muscular weakness and possible paralysis. There have been rare reports ofdeaths, primarily in preterm infants, associated with exposure to excessive amounts of benzyl alcohol. The amount of benzyl alcohol from medications is usually considered negligible compared to that received in flush solutions containing benzyl alcohol.Administration of high dosages of medications containing this preservative must take into account the total amount of benzyl alcohol administered. The amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occuris not known. If the patient requires more than the recommended dosages or other medications containing this preservative, the practitioner must consider the daily metabolic load of benzyl alcohol from these combined sources. (see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use ). WARNINGS In the presence of a high environmental temperature, heat prostration (fever and heat stroke due to decreased sweating) can occur with use of glycopyrrolate. Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction, especially in patients with ileostomyor colostomy . Glycopyrrolate may produce drowsiness or blurred vision. Theoretically, with overdosage, a curare-like action may occur, i.e., neuro-muscular blockade leading to muscular weakness and possible paralysis. Pregnancy The safety of this drug during pregnancy has not been established. The use of any drug during pregnancy requires that the potential benefits of the drug be weighed against possible hazards to mother and child. Reproduction studies in rats revealed no teratogenic effects from glycopyrrolate; however, the potent anticholinergic action of this agent resulted in diminished rates of conception and of survival at weaning, in a dose-related manner. Other studies in dogs suggest that this may be due to diminished seminal secretion which is evident at high doses of glycopyrrolate. Information on possible adverse effects in the pregnant female is limited to uncontrolled data derived from marketing experience. Such experience has revealed no reports of teratogenic or other fetus-damaging potential. No controlled studies to establish the safety of the drug in pregnancy have been performed. Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk. As a general rule, nursing should not be undertaken while a patient is on a drug since many drugs are excreted in human milk. Pediatric Use Since there is no adequate experience in pediatric patients who have received this drug, safety and efficacy in pediatric patients have not been established.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to glycopyrrolate or any of its inactive ingredients. In addition, in the management of peptic ulcer patients, because of the longer duration of therapy, glycopyrrolate injection may be contraindicated in patients with the following concurrent conditions: glaucoma; obstructive uropathy (for example, bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy); obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract (as in achalasia, pyloroduodenal stenosis, etc.); paralytic ileus, intestinal atony of the elderly or debilitated patient; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage; severe ulcerative colitis; toxic megacolon complicating ulcerative colitis; myasthenia gravis. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Glycopyrrolate tablets are contraindicated in: Patients at risk for anticholinergic toxicity due to an underlying medical condition, including: Glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Obstructive uropathies, including prostatic hypertrophy Mechanical obstructive diseases of the gastrointestinal tract (e.g., pyloroduodenal stenosis, strictures) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Gastrointestinal motility disorders (e.g., achalasia, paralytic ileus, intestinal atony) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Bleeding gastrointestinal ulcer Active inflammatory or infectious colitis which can lead to toxic megacolon History of or current toxic megacolon o Myasthenia gravis Patients with a hypersensitivity to glycopyrrolate or any of the inactive ingredients in glycopyrrolate tablets [see Adverse Reactions (6) and Description (11) ] . Patients at risk for anticholinergic toxicity due to various underlying medical conditions. ( 4 , 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 ) Hypersensitivity to glycopyrrolate or the inactive ingredients. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Glycopyrrolate oral solution is contraindicated in: Patients with medical conditions that preclude anticholinergic therapy (e.g., glaucoma, paralyticileus, unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage, severe ulcerative colitis, toxic megacolon complicating ulcerative colitis, myasthenia gravis). Patients taking solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride. The passage of potassium chloride tablets through the gastrointestinal (GI) tract may be arrested or delayed with coadministration of Glycopyrrolate oral solution. Medical conditions that preclude anticholinergic therapy. ( 4 ) Concomitant use of solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Glycopyrrolate injection is contraindicated in: patients with known hypersensitivity to Glycopyrrolate injection or any of its inactive ingredients. peptic ulcer patients with the following concurrent conditions: glaucoma; obstructive uropathy (for example, bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy); obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract (as in achalasia, pyloroduodenal stenosis, etc.); paralytic ileus, intestinal atony of the elderly or debilitated patient; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage; severe ulcerative colitis; toxic megacolon complicating ulcerative colitis; myasthenia gravis. Known hypersensitivity to glycopyrrolate or any of its inactive ingredients. (4) Peptic ulcer patients with glaucoma; obstructive uropathy; obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract; paralytic ileus, intestinal atony of the elderly, or debilitated patient; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage; severe ulcerative colitis; toxic megacolon; complicating ulcerative colitis; myasthenia gravis. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Glycopyrrolate are contraindicated in: • Patients at risk for anticholinergic toxicity due to an underlying medical condition, including: o Glaucoma [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] o Obstructive uropathies, including prostatic hypertrophy o Mechanical obstructive diseases of the gastrointestinal tract (e.g., pyloroduodenal stenosis, strictures) [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] o Gastrointestinal motility disorders (e.g., achalasia, paralytic ileus, intestinal atony) [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] o Bleeding gastrointestinal ulcer o Active inflammatory or infectious colitis which can lead to toxic megacolon o History of or current toxic megacolon o Myasthenia gravis • Patients with a hypersensitivity to glycopyrrolate or any of the inactive ingredients in glycopyrrolate [ see Adverse Reactions (6) and Description (11) ]. • Patients at risk for anticholinergic toxicity due to various underlying medical conditions. ( 4 , 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 ) • Hypersensitivity to glycopyrrolate or the inactive ingredients. CONTRAINDICATIONS Glaucoma; obstructive uropathy (for example, bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy); obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract (as in achalasia, pyloroduodenal stenosis, etc.); paralytic ileus; intestinal atony of the elderly or debilitated patient; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage; severe ulcerative colitis; toxic megacolon complicating ulcerative colitis; myasthenia gravis. Glycopyrrolate tablets are contraindicated in those patients with a hypersensitivity to glycopyrrolate. CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to glycopyrrolate or any of its inactive ingredients.In addition, in the management of peptic ulcer patients, because of the longer duration of therapy, glycopyrrolate injection may be contraindicated in patients with the following concurrent conditions: glaucoma; obstructive uropathy (for example, bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy); obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract (as in achalasia, pyloroduodenal stenosis, etc.); paralytic ileus, intestinal atony of the elderly or debilitated patient; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage; severe ulcerative colitis; toxic megacolon complicating ulcerative colitis; myasthenia gravis.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions The concurrent use of glycopyrrolate injection with other anticholinergics or medications with anticholinergic activity, such as phenothiazines, antiparkinson drugs, or tricyclic antidepressants, may intensify the antimuscarinic effects and may result in an increase in anticholinergic side effects. Concomitant administration of glycopyrrolate injection and potassium chloride in a wax matrix may increase the severity of potassium chloride-induced gastrointestinal lesions as a result of a slower gastrointestinal transit time. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Other Anticholinergic Drugs : Concomitant use is not recommended. ( 5.3 , 5.4 , 5.6 , 7.1 ) Drugs with Altered Absorption due to Decreased GI Motility : Concomitant use is not recommended. ( 7.2 ) GI Toxicity with Solid Oral Dosage Forms of Potassium Chloride : Concomitant use is not recommended. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Other Anticholinergic Drugs There is potential for an additive interaction between glycopyrrolate and concomitantly used anticholinergic drugs (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants, anti-epileptics, class I antiarrhythmics, anti-spasmodics, amantadine) resulting in increased anticholinergic adverse reactions. Coadministration of antipsychotics with glycopyrrolate may lead to worsening of tardive dyskinesia. Glycopyrrolate is not recommended in patients taking other anticholinergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3 , 5.4 , 5.6) ] . 7.2 Drugs with Altered Absorption due to Decreased Gastrointestinal Motility and Increased Transit Time Decreased gastrointestinal motility by glycopyrrolate may impact absorption of other drugs leading toincreased or decreased drug exposure. Glycopyrrolate is not recommended in patients taking other drugs that are affected by altered gastrointestinal motility [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . 7.3 Gastrointestinal Toxicity with Solid Dosage Forms of Potassium Chloride Oral glycopyrrolate may worsen gastrointestinal mucosal injury reported with solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride due to decreased gastric motility and increased transit time, leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa. Glycopyrrolate is not recommended in patients taking solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs Affected by Reduced GI Transit Time Glycopyrrolate reduces GI transit time, which may result in altered release of certain drugs when formulated in delayed- or controlled-release dosage forms. The passage of potassium chloride tablets through the GI tract may be arrested or delayed with coadministration of glycopyrrolate. Solid dosage forms of potassium chloride are contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ]. Digoxin administered as slow dissolution oral tablets may have increased serum levels and enhanced action when administered with glycopyrrolate. Monitor patients receiving slow dissolution digoxin for increased action if glycopyrrolate is coadministered regularly. Consider the use of other oral dosage forms of digoxin (e.g., elixir or capsules). Amantadine The anticholinergic effects of glycopyrrolate may be increased with concomitant administration of amantadine. Consider decreasing the dose of glycopyrrolate during coadministration of amantadine. Drugs Whose Plasma Levels May be Increased by Glycopyrrolate Coadministration of glycopyrrolate may result in increased levels of certain drugs. Atenolol's bioavailability may be increased with coadministration of glycopyrrolate. A reduction in the atenolol dose may be needed. Metformin plasma levels may be elevated with coadministration of glycopyrrolate, increasing metformin's pharmacologic and toxic effects. Monitor clinical response to metformin with concomitant glycopyrrolate administration; consider a dose reduction of metformin if warranted. Drugs Whose Plasma Levels May be Decreased by Glycopyrrolate Coadministration of glycopyrrolate may result in decreased levels of certain drugs. Haloperidol's serum level may be decreased when coadministered with glycopyrrolate, resulting in worsening of schizophrenic symptoms, and development of tardive dyskinesia. Closely monitor patients if coadministration cannot be avoided. Levodopa's therapeutic effect may be reduced with glycopyrrolate administration. Consider increasing the dose of levodopa. • Digoxin tablets: Use with glycopyrrolate can increase digoxin serum levels. Monitor patients and consider use of alternative dosage forms of digoxin. ( 7 ) • Amantadine: Effects of glycopyrrolate may be increased with concomitant administration of amantadine. Consider decreasing the dose of glycopyrrolate during concomitant use. ( 7 ) • Atenolol or metformin: Glycopyrrolate may increase serum levels of atenolol or metformin. Consider dose reduction when used with glycopyrrolate. ( 7 ) • Haloperidol or levodopa: Glycopyrrolate may decrease serum levels of haloperidol or levodopa. Consider a dose increase when used with glycopyrrolate. ( 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The concurrent use of Glycopyrrolate injection with other anticholinergics or medications with anticholinergic activity, such as phenothiazines, antiparkinson drugs, or tricyclic antidepressants, may intensify the antimuscarinic effects and result in an increase in anticholinergic side effects. Other anticholinergics or drugs with anticholinergic activity : May intensify the antimuscarinic effects and result in an increase in anticholinergic side effects. Potassium Chloride in a Wax Matrix : May increase severity of potassium chloride-induced gastrointestinal lesions. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Other Anticholinergic Drugs : Concomitant use is not recommended. ( 5.3 , 5.4 , 5.6 , 7.1 ) • Drugs with Altered Absorption due to Decreased GI Motility : Concomitant use is not recommended. ( 7.2 ) • GI Toxicity with Solid Oral Dosage Forms of Potassium Chloride : Concomitant use is not recommended. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Other Anticholinergic Drugs There is potential for an additive interaction between glycopyrrolate and concomitantly used anticholinergic drugs (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants, anti-epileptics, class I antiarrhythmics, anti­-spasmodics, amantadine) resulting in increased anticholinergic adverse reactions. Co-administration of antipsychotics with glycopyrrolate may lead to worsening of tardive dyskinesia. Glycopyrrolate are not recommended in patients taking other anticholinergic drugs [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3 , 5.4 , 5.6 ) ]. 7.2 Drugs with Altered Absorption due to Decreased Gastrointestinal Motility and Increased Transit Time Decreased gastrointestinal motility by glycopyrrolate may impact absorption of other drugs leading to increased or decreased drug exposure. Glycopyrrolate are not recommended in patients taking other drugs that are affected by altered gastrointestinal motility [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . 7.3 Gastrointestinal Toxicity with Solid Oral Dosage Forms of Potassium Chloride Oral glycopyrrolate may worsen gastrointestinal mucosal injury reported with solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride due to decreased gastric motility and increased transit time, leading to prolonged contact with the gastrointestinal mucosa. Glycopyrrolate are not recommended in patients taking solid oral dosage forms of potassium chloride. Interactions There are no known drug interactions. DRUG INTERACTIONS There are no known drug interactions.

=== AMLODIPINE BESYLATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amlodipine besylate tablets are calcium channel blocker and may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive and antianginal agents for the treatment of: •Hypertension ( 1.1 ) о Amlodipine besylate tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. •Coronary Artery Disease ( 1.2 ) о Chronic Stable Angina о Vasospastic Angina (Prinzmetal's or Variant Angina) о Angiographically Documented Coronary Artery Disease in patients without heart failure or an ejection fraction < 40% 1.1 Hypertension Amlodipine besylate tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including amlodipine besylate. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program's Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. Amlodipine besylate tablets may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. 1.2 Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) Chronic Stable Angina Amlodipine besylate tablets are indicated for the symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina. Amlodipine besylate tablets may be used alone or in combination with other antianginal agents. Vasospastic Angina (Prinzmetal's or Variant Angina) Amlodipine besylate tablets are indicated for the treatment of confirmed or suspected vasospastic angina. Amlodipine besylate tablets may be used as monotherapy or in combination with other antianginal agents. Angiographically Documented CAD In patients with recently documented CAD by angiography and without heart failure or an ejection fraction <40%, amlodipine besylate tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of hospitalization for angina and to reduce the risk of a coronary revascularization procedure. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Amlodipine besylate tablets is a calcium channel blocker and may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive and antianginal agents for the treatment of: • Hypertension ( 1.1 ) Amlodipine besylate tablets is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. • Coronary Artery Disease ( 1.2 ) Chronic Stable Angina Vasospastic Angina (Prinzmetal’s or Variant Angina) Angiographically Documented Coronary Artery Disease in patients without heart failure or an ejection fraction < 40% 1.1 Hypertension Amlodipine besylate tablets is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including Amlodipine besylate tablets. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). 1.2 Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) Chronic Stable Angina Amlodipine besylate tablets is indicated for the symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina. Vasospastic Angina (Prinzmetal’s or Variant Angina) Amlodipine besylate tablets is indicated for the treatment of confirmed or suspected vasospastic angina. Angiographically Documented CAD In patients with recently documented CAD by angiography and without heart failure or an ejection fraction <40%, Amlodipine besylate tablets is indicated to reduce the risk of hospitalization for angina and to reduce the risk of a coronary revascularization procedure. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Amlodipine besylate tablets is a calcium channel blocker and may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive and antianginal agents for the treatment of: • Hypertension () • Amlodipine besylate tablets is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. • Coronary Artery Disease () • Chronic Stable Angina • Vasospastic Angina (Prinzmetal’s or Variant Angina) • Angiographically Documented Coronary Artery Disease in patients without heart failure or an ejection fraction < 40% 1.1 Hypertension Amlodipine besylate tablets is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are a combination capsule of amlodipine, a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker (DHP CCB) and benazepril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the treatment of hypertension in patients not adequately controlled on monotherapy with either agent. (1) 1.1 Hypertension Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the treatment of hypertension in patients not adequately controlled on monotherapy with either agent. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, alone or with other antihypertensive agents, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular (CV) events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including the class to which this drug principally belongs. There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets. Amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets may also be used as initial therapy in patients who are likely to need multiple antihypertensive agents to achieve their blood pressure goals. Patients with moderate or severe hypertension are at relatively high risk for cardiovascular events (such as strokes, heart attacks, and heart failure), kidney failure, and vision problems, so prompt treatment is clinically relevant. The decision to use a combination as initial therapy should be individualized and should be shaped by considerations such as baseline blood pressure, the target goal, and the incremental likelihood of achieving goal with a combination compared to monotherapy. Individual blood pressure goals may vary based upon the patient’s risk. Data from an 8-week, placebo-controlled, parallel-group factorial study [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] provide estimates of the probability of reaching a blood pressure goal with amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets compared to amlodipine or olmesartan medoxomil monotherapy. The figures below provide estimates of the likelihood of achieving the targeted systolic or diastolic blood pressure goals with amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets 10/40 mg compared with amlodipine or olmesartan medoxomil monotherapy, based upon baseline systolic or diastolic blood pressure. The curve of each treatment group was estimated by logistic regression modeling from all available data of that treatment group. The right tail of each curve is less reliable because of small numbers of subjects with high baseline blood pressures. Figure 1: Probability of Achieving Systolic Blood Pressure (SBP) < 140 mmHg at Week 8 With LOCF Figure 2: Probability of Achieving Diastolic Blood Pressure (DBP) < 90 mmHg at Week 8 With LOCF Figure 3: Probability of Achieving Systolic Blood Pressure (SBP) < 130 mmHg at Week 8 With LOCF Figure 4: Probability of Achieving Diastolic Blood Pressure (DBP) < 80 mmHg at Week 8 With LOCF The figures above provide an approximation of the likelihood of reaching a targeted blood pressure goal (e.g., Week 8 SBP < 140 mmHg or < 130 mmHg or a DBP < 90 mmHg or <80 mmHg) for the high-dose treatment groups evaluated in the study. Amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets 5/20 mg, the lowest dose combination treatment group, increases the probability of reaching blood pressure goal compared with the highest dose monotherapies, amlodipine 10 mg and olmesartan medoxomil 40 mg. For example, a patient with a baseline blood pressure of 160/100 mmHg has about a 48% likelihood of achieving a goal of < 140 mmHg (systolic) and a 51% likelihood of achieving a goal of < 90 mmHg (diastolic) on monotherapy with olmesartan medoxomil 40 mg, and about a 46% likelihood of achieving a goal of < 140 mmHg (systolic) and a 60% likelihood of achieving a goal of < 90 mmHg (diastolic) on monotherapy with amlodipine 10 mg. The likelihood of achieving these same goals increases to 63% (systolic) and 71% (diastolic) on amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets 5/20 mg, and to 68% (systolic) and 85% (diastolic) on amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets 10/40 mg. Amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets are a combination of amlodipine besylate, a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker, and olmesartan medoxomil, an angiotensin II receptor blocker, indicated for the treatment of hypertension, alone or with other antihypertensive agents, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions ( 1 ). Amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets may also be used as initial therapy in patients likely to need multiple antihypertensive agents to achieve their blood pressure goals (1) . Figures 1 & 2 Figures 1 & 2 Figures 3 & 4 Figures 3 & 4 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amlodipine besylate tablet, USP is a calcium channel blocker and may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive and antianginal agents for the treatment of: • Hypertension (1.1) o Amlodipine besylate tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. • Coronary Artery Disease (1.2) o Chronic Stable Angina o Vasospastic Angina (Prinzmetal's or Variant Angina) o Angiographically Documented Coronary Artery Disease in patients without heart failure or an ejection fraction < 40% 1.1 Hypertension Amlodipine besylate tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including amlodipine besylate tablet. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amlodipine and atorvastatin tablets are indicated in patients for whom treatment with both amlodipine and atorvastatin is appropriate. Amlodipine Hypertension Amlodipine is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including amlodipine. Amlodipine may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) Chronic Stable Angina Amlodipine is indicated for the symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina. Amlodipine may be used alone or in combination with other antianginal agents. Vasospastic Angina (Prinzmetal’s or Variant Angina) Amlodipine is indicated for the treatment of confirmed or suspected vasospastic angina. Amlodipine may be used as monotherapy or in combination with other antianginal agents. Angiographically Documented CAD In patients with recently documented CAD by angiography and without heart failure or an ejection fraction < 40%, amlodipine is indicated to reduce the risk of hospitalization for angina and to reduce the risk of a coronary revascularization procedure. Atorvastatin Atorvastatin is indicated: To reduce the risk of: Myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, revascularization procedures, and angina in adults with multiple risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) but without clinically evident CHD MI and stroke in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus with multiple risk factors for CHD but without clinically evident CHD Non-fatal MI, fatal and non-fatal stroke, revascularization procedures, hospitalization for congestive heart failure, and angina in adults with clinically evident CHD As an adjunct to diet to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in: Adults with primary hyperlipidemia. Adults and pediatric patients aged 10 years and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). As an adjunct to other LDL-C-lowering therapies, or alone if such treatments are unavailable, to reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients aged 10 years and older with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH). As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with: Primary dysbetalipoproteinemia Hypertriglyceridemia Amlodipine and atorvastatin tablets are a combination of amlodipine besylate, a calcium channel blocker, and atorvastatin calcium, a HMG CoA-reductase inhibitor (statin), indicated in patients for whom treatment with both amlodipine and atorvastatin is appropriate ( 1 ). Amlodipine is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Amlodipine is indicated for the treatment of Coronary Artery Disease ( 1 ). Atorvastatin is indicated ( 1 ): To reduce the risk of: Myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, revascularization procedures, and angina in adults with multiple risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) but without clinically evident CHD. MI and stroke in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus with multiple risk factors for CHD but without clinically evident CHD. Non-fatal MI, fatal and non-fatal stroke, revascularization procedures, hospitalization for congestive heart failure, and angina in adults with clinically evident CHD. As an adjunct to diet to reduce low-density lipoprotein (LDL-C) in: Adults with primary hyperlipidemia. As an adjunct to other LDL-C-lowering therapies to reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients aged 10 years and older with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with: Primary dysbetalipoproteinemia. Hypertriglyceridemia. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amlodipine besylate tablets are a calcium channel blocker and may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive and antianginal agents for the treatment of: • Hypertension ( 1.1 ) o Amlodipine besylate tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. • Coronary Artery Disease ( 1.2 ) o Chronic Stable Angina o Vasospastic Angina (Prinzmetal’s or Variant Angina) o Angiographically Documented Coronary Artery Disease in patients without heart failure or an ejection fraction < 40%. 1.1 Hypertension Amlodipine Besylate Tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Vasospastic Angina (Prinzmetal’s or Variant Angina) Amlodipine besylate tablets are indicated for the treatment of confirmed or suspected vasospastic angina. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mm Hg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION •Adult recommended starting dose: 5 mg once daily with maximum dose 10 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) о Small, fragile, or elderly patients, or patients with hepatic insufficiency may be started on 2.5 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) •Pediatric starting dose: 2.5 mg to 5 mg once daily. ( 2.2 ) Important Limitation : Doses in excess of 5 mg daily have not been studied in pediatric patients. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Adults The usual initial antihypertensive oral dose of amlodipine besylate tablet is 5 mg once daily and the maximum dose is 10 mg once daily. Small, fragile, or elderly patients, or patients with hepatic insufficiency may be started on 2.5 mg once daily and this dose may be used when adding amlodipine besylate tablet to other antihypertensive therapy. Adjust dosage according to blood pressure goals. In general, wait 7 to 14 days between titration steps. Titrate more rapidly, however, if clinically warranted, provided the patient is assessed frequently. Angina The recommended dose for chronic stable or vasospastic angina is 5 to 10 mg, with the lower dose suggested in the elderly and in patients with hepatic insufficiency. Most patients will require 10 mg for adequate effect. Coronary artery disease The recommended dose range for patients with coronary artery disease is 5 to 10 mg once daily. In clinical studies, the majority of patients required 10 mg [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.4) ] . 2.2 Children The effective antihypertensive oral dose in pediatric patients ages 6 to 17 years is 2.5 mg to 5 mg once daily. Doses in excess of 5 mg daily have not been studied in pediatric patients [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.4) , CLINICAL STUDIES (14.1) ] . 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Adult recommended starting dose: 5 mg once daily with maximum dose 10 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) Small, fragile, or elderly patients, or patients with hepatic insufficiency may be started on 2.5 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) Pediatric starting dose: 2.5 mg to 5 mg once daily. ( 2.2 ) Important Limitation: Doses in excess of 5 mg daily have not been studied in pediatric patients. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Adults The usual initial antihypertensive oral dose of Amlodipine besylate tablets is 5 mg once daily, and the maximum dose is 10 mg once daily. Small, fragile, or elderly patients, or patients with hepatic insufficiency may be started on 2.5 mg once daily and this dose may be used when adding Amlodipine besylate tablets to other antihypertensive therapy. Angina: The recommended dose for chronic stable or vasospastic angina is 5 to 10 mg, with the lower dose suggested in the elderly and in patients with hepatic insufficiency. Coronary artery disease: The recommended dose range for patients with coronary artery disease is 5 to 10 mg once daily. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION • Adult recommended starting dose: 5 mg once daily with maximum dose 10 mg once daily. () o Small, fragile, or elderly patients, or patients with hepatic insufficiency may be started on 2.5 mg once daily. () • Pediatric starting dose: 2.5 mg to 5 mg once daily. () Important Limitation: Doses in excess of 5 mg daily have not been studied in pediatric patients. () 2.1 Adults The usual initial antihypertensive oral dose of Amlodipine besylate tablets is 5 mg once daily, and the maximum dose is 10 mg once daily. In clinical studies, the majority of patients required 10 mg [see ] . Doses in excess of 5 mg daily have not been studied in pediatric patients [see , ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usual starting dose is 2.5 mg/10 mg. ( 2.1 ) May be used as add-on therapy for patients not adequately controlled with either a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker or an ACE inhibitor ( 2.2 ) Patients who experience edema with amlodipine may be switched to amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules containing a lower dose of amlodipine. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 General Considerations The recommended initial dose is amlodipine 2.5 mg and benazepril 10 mg orally once-daily. Begin therapy with amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules only after a patient has either (a) failed to achieve the desired antihypertensive effect with amlodipine or benazepril monotherapy, or (b) demonstrated inability to achieve adequate antihypertensive effect with amlodipine therapy without developing edema. The antihypertensive effect of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules is largely attained within 2 weeks. If blood pressure remains uncontrolled, the dose may be titrated up to amlodipine 10 mg and benazepril 40 mg once-daily. The dosing should be individualized and adjusted according to the patient’s clinical response. In clinical trials of amlodipine and benazepril combination therapy using amlodipine doses of 2.5 to 10 mg and benazepril doses of 10 to 40 mg, the antihypertensive effects increased with increasing dose of amlodipine in all patient groups, and the effects increased with increasing dose of benazepril in nonblack groups. 2.2 Replacement Therapy Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules may be substituted for the titrated components. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual starting dose of amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets is 5/20 mg once daily. The dosage can be increased after 1 to 2 weeks of therapy to a maximum dose of one 10/40 mg tablet once daily as needed to control blood pressure [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Recommended starting dose: 5/20 mg once daily ( 2 ). Titrate as needed in two-week intervals up to a maximum of 10/40 mg once daily ( 2 ). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Adult recommended starting dose: 5 mg once daily with maximum dose 10 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) o Small, fragile, or elderly patients or patients with hepatic insufficiency may be started on 2.5 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) • Pediatric starting dose: 2.5 mg to 5 mg once daily. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Adults The usual initial antihypertensive oral dose of amlodipine besylate tablet is 5 mg once daily, and the maximum dose is 10 mg once daily. In clinical studies, the majority of patients required 10 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.4)]. 2.2 Children The effective antihypertensive oral dose in pediatric patients ages 6–17 years is 2.5 mg to 5 mg once daily. Doses in excess of 5 mg daily have not been studied in pediatric patients [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.4 ), Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Amlodipine and Atorvastatin Tablets Dosage of amlodipine and atorvastatin tablets must be individualized on the basis of both effectiveness and tolerance for each individual component in the treatment of hypertension/angina and hyperlipidemia. Select doses of amlodipine and atorvastatin independently. Amlodipine and atorvastatin tablets may be substituted for its individually titrated components. Patients may be given the equivalent dose of amlodipine and atorvastatin or a dose of amlodipine and atorvastatin with increased amounts of amlodipine, atorvastatin, or both for additional antianginal effects, blood pressure lowering, or lipid-lowering effect. Amlodipine and atorvastatin tablets may be used to provide additional therapy for patients already on one of its components. Amlodipine and atorvastatin tablets may be used to initiate treatment in patients with hyperlipidemia and either hypertension or angina. Important Dosage Information Take amlod ipine and atorvastatin tablets orally once daily at any time of the day, with or without food. Amlodipine The usual initial antihypertensive oral dosage of amlodipine is 5 mg once daily, and the maximum dose is 10 mg once daily. Pediatric (age > 6 years), small adult, fragile, or elderly patients, or patients with hepatic insufficiency may be started on 2.5 mg once daily and this dose may be used when adding amlodipine to other antihypertensive therapy. Titration may proceed more rapidly, however, if clinically warranted, provided the patient is assessed frequently. Angina The recommended dosage of amlodipine for chronic stable or vasospastic angina is 5 to 10 mg, with the lower dose suggested in the elderly and in patients with hepatic insufficiency. Coronary Artery Disease The recommended dosage range of amlodipine for patients with CAD is 5 to 10 mg once daily. In clinical studies, the majority of patients required 10 mg [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )] . Pediatrics The effective antihypertensive oral dose of amlodipine in pediatric patients ages 6 to 17 years is 2.5 mg to 5 mg once daily. Doses in excess of 5 mg daily have not been studied in pediatric patients [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Clinical Studies (14.1)] . Atorvastatin Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating atorvastatin, and adjust the dosage if necessary. Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients The recommended starting dosage of atorvastatin is 10 mg to 20 mg once daily. The dosage range is 10 mg to 80 mg once daily. Patients who require reduction in LDL-C greater than 45% may be started at 40 mg once daily. Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 10 Years of Age and Older with HeFH The recommended starting dosage of atorvastatin is 10 mg once daily. The dosage range is 10 mg to 20 mg once daily. Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 10 Years of Age and Older with HoFH The recommended starting dosage of atorvastatin is 10 mg to 20 mg once daily. Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Concomitant use of atorvastatin with the following drugs requires dosage modification of atorvastatin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. Anti-Viral Medications In patients taking saquinavir plus ritonavir, darunavir plus ritonavir, fosamprenavir, fosamprenavir plus ritonavir, elbasvir plus grazoprevir or letermovir, do not exceed atorvastatin 20 mg once daily. In patients taking nelfinavir, do not exceed atorvastatin 40 mg once daily. Select Azole Antifungals or Macrolide Antibiotics In patients taking clarithromycin or itraconazole, do not exceed atorvastatin 20 mg once daily. For additional recommendations regarding concomitant use of atorvastatin with other anti-viral medications, azole antifungals or macrolide antibiotics, [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. Usual starting dose (mg daily) Maximum dose (mg daily) Amlodipine 5 a 10 Atorvastatin 10 to 20 b 80 a Start small adults or children, fragile, or elderly patients, or patients with hepatic insufficiency on 2.5 mg once daily ( 2 ) b Start patients requiring large LDL-C reduction (>45%) at 40 mg once daily ( 2 ) ( 2.1 ) o Small, fragile, or elderly patients, or patients with hepatic insufficiency may be started on 2.5 mg once daily. Angina: The recommended dose for chronic stable or vasospastic angina is 5–10 mg, with the lower dose suggested in the elderly and in patients with hepatic insufficiency. Coronary artery disease: The recommended dose range for patients with coronary artery disease is 5–10 mg once daily. Doses in excess of 5 mg daily have not been studied in pediatric patients [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4 ), Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . 2.1 Adults The usual initial antihypertensive oral dose of amlodipine besylate tablets are 5 mg once daily, and the maximum dose is 10 mg once daily. Doses in excess of 5 mg daily have not been studied in pediatric patients [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4), Clinical Studies (14.1)].
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Known sensitivity to amlodipine ( 4 ) Amlodipine besylate tablets are contraindicated in patients with known sensitivity to amlodipine. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Amlodipine besylate tablets are contraindicated in patients with known sensitivity to amlodipine. Known sensitivity to amlodipine ( 4 ) • Known sensitivity to amlodipine () 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not coadminister aliskiren with angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, including amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules in patients with diabetes. Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in patients with a history of angioedema, with or without previous ACE inhibitor treatment, or patients who are hypersensitive to benazepril, to any other ACE inhibitor, to amlodipine, or to any of the excipients of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules. Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor (e.g., sacubitril). Do not administer amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules within 36 hours of switching to or from a neprilysin inhibitor, e.g., sacubitril/valsartan [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Do not coadminister aliskiren with ACE inhibitors, including amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules, in patients with diabetes. (4) Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in patients with a history of angioedema or patients who are hypersensitive to benazepril or to amlodipine. (4) Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor (e.g., sacubitril). Do not administer amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules within 36 hours of switching to or from a neprilysin inhibitor, e.g., sacubitril/valsartan. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not co-administer aliskiren with amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets in patients with diabetes [ See Drug Interactions (7.2) ]. Do not co-administer aliskiren with amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets in patients with diabetes (4) . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Known sensitivity to amlodipine ( 4 ) Amlodipine besylate is contraindicated in patients with known sensitivity to amlodipine. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Hypersensitivity to amlodipine, atorvastatin or any excipients in amlodipine and atorvastatin tablets. Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioneurotic edema, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis, have been reported [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )]. Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis (4). Hypersensitivity to amlodipine, atorvastatin or any excipient in amlodipine and atorvastatin tablets (4). • Known sensitivity to amlodipine ( 4 ) Amlodipine besylate tablets are contraindicated in patients with known sensitivity to amlodipine.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Do not exceed doses greater than 20 mg daily of simvastatin. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Impact of Other Drugs on Amlodipine CYP3A Inhibitors Co-administration with CYP3A inhibitors (moderate and strong) results in increased systemic exposure to amlodipine and may require dose reduction. Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema when amlodipine is co-administered with CYP3A inhibitors to determine the need for dose adjustment [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )] . CYP3A Inducers No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine. Blood pressure should be closely monitored when amlodipine is co-administered with CYP3A inducers. Sildenafil Monitor for hypotension when sildenafil is co-administered with amlodipine [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.2 )] . 7.2 Impact of Amlodipine on Other Drugs Simvastatin Co-administration of simvastatin with amlodipine increases the systemic exposure of simvastatin. Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amlodipine to 20 mg daily [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )] . Immunosuppressants Amlodipine may increase the systemic exposure of cyclosporine or tacrolimus when co-administered. Frequent monitoring of trough blood levels of cyclosporine and tacrolimus is recommended and adjust the dose when appropriate [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )] . (7.2) 7.1 Impact of Other Drugs on Amlodipine CYP3A Inhibitors Co-administration with CYP3A inhibitors (moderate and strong) results in increased systemic exposure to amlodipine and may require dose reduction. Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema when amlodipine is co-administered with CYP3A inhibitors to determine the need for dose adjustment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Sildenafil Monitor for hypotension when sildenafil is co-administered with amlodipine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) 7.2 Impact of Amlodipine on Other Drugs Simvastatin Co-administration of simvastatin with amlodipine increases the systemic exposure of simvastatin. Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amlodipine to 20 mg daily [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Frequent monitoring of trough blood levels of cyclosporine and tacrolimus is recommended and adjust the dose when appropriate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Do not exceed doses greater than 20 mg daily of simvastatin. Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. 7.1 Impact of Other Drugs on Amlodipine CYP3A Inhibitors Co-administration with CYP3A inhibitors (moderate and strong) results in increased systemic exposure to amlodipine and may require dose reduction. Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema when amlodipine is co-administered with CYP3A inhibitors to determine the need for dose adjustment [see ] . Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amlodipine to 20 mg daily [see ]. Frequent monitoring of trough blood levels of cyclosporine and tacrolimus is recommended and adjust the dose when appropriate [see ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Potassium supplements/potassium-sparing diuretics: hyperkalemia ( 7.1 ) Lithium: Increased serum lithium levels; toxicity symptoms ( 7.1 ) Injectable gold: facial flushing, nausea, vomiting, hypotension ( 7.1 ) Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): Risk of renal dysfunction, loss of antihypertensive effect (7.1) Do not exceed doses greater than 20 mg daily of simvastatin (7.1) mTOR inhibitors: increased risk of angioedema ( 7.1 ) Dual inhibition of the RAS: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia (7.1) Neprilysin inhibitors: increased risk of angioedema ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Drug/Drug Interactions Amlodipine Simvastatin : Coadministration of simvastatin with amlodipine increases the systemic exposure of simvastatin. Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amlodipine to 20 mg daily. CYP3A4 Inhibitors : Coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors (moderate and strong) results in increased systemic exposure to amlodipine and may require dose reduction. Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema when amlodipine is coadministered with CYP3A4 inhibitors to determine the need for dose adjustment. CYP3A4 Inducers : No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A4 inducers on amlodipine. Blood pressure should be monitored when amlodipine is coadministered with CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. rifampicin, St. John’s Wort). Benazepril Potassium Supplements and Potassium-Sparing Diuretics: Benazepril can attenuate potassium loss caused by thiazide diuretics. Potassium-sparing diuretics (spironolactone, amiloride, triamterene, and others) or potassium supplements can increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If concomitant use of such agents is indicated, the patient’s serum potassium should be monitored frequently. Lithium: Increased serum lithium levels and symptoms of lithium toxicity have been reported in patients receiving ACE inhibitors during therapy with lithium. When coadministering amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride and lithium, frequent monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended. Gold: Nitritoid reactions (symptoms include facial flushing, nausea, vomiting and hypotension) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold (sodium aurothiomalate) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy. Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including benazepril, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving benazepril and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors, including benazepril, may be attenuated by NSAIDs. Antidiabetic Agents: In rare cases, diabetic patients receiving an ACE inhibitor (including benazepril) concomitantly with insulin or oral antidiabetics may develop hypoglycemia. Such patients should therefore be advised about the possibility of hypoglycemic reactions and should be monitored accordingly. Mammalian Target of Rapamycin (mTOR) Inhibitors: The risk of angioedema may be increased in patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitors and mTOR inhibitors (e.g., temsirolimus, sirolimus, everolimus). Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS): Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride and other agents that block the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride in patients with renal impairment [glomerular filtration rate (GFR) < 60 mL/min]. Neprilysin Inhibitor: Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Amlodipine ( 7.1 ): If simvastatin is co-administered with amlodipine, do not exceed 20 mg daily of simvastatin. Increased exposure of cyclosporine and tacrolimus. Increased exposure of amlodipine when coadministered with CYP3A inhibitors. Olmesartan medoxomil ( 7.2 ): Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect. Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia. Colesevelam hydrochloride: Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride dose. Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity. 7.1 Drug Interactions with Amlodipine Simvastatin: Co-administration of simvastatin with amlodipine increases the systemic exposure of simvastatin. Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amlodipine to 20 mg daily [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Immunosuppressants: Amlodipine may increase the systemic exposure of cyclosporine or tacrolimus when co-administered. Frequent monitoring of trough blood levels of cyclosporine and tacrolimus is recommended and adjust the dose when appropriate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. CYP3A Inhibitors : Co-administration of amlodipine with CYP3A inhibitors (moderate and strong) results in increased systemic exposure to amlodipine and may require dose reduction. Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema when amlodipine is co-administered with CYP3A inhibitors to determine the need for dose adjustment. CYP3A Inducers: No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine. 7.2 Drug Interactions with Olmesartan Medoxomil Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets in patients with diabetes [ see Contraindications (4) ]. Avoid use of aliskiren with amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). Use with Colesevelam Hydrochloride: Concurrent administration of bile acid sequestering agent colesevelam hydrochloride reduces the systemic exposure and peak plasma concentration of olmesartan. Administration of olmesartan at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride decreased the drug interaction effect. Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before the colesevelam hydrochloride dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use. Mammalian Target of Rapamycin (mTOR) Inhibitors : The risk of angioedema may be increased in patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitors and mTOR inhibitors (e.g., temsirolimus, sirolimus, everolimus). Blood pressure should be closely monitored when amlodipine is co‑administered with CYP3A inducers. Sildenafil Monitor for hypotension when sildenafil is co‑administered with amlodipine [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amlodipine to 20 mg daily [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Immunosuppressants Amlodipine may increase the systemic exposure of cyclosporine or tacrolimus when co‑administered. Frequent monitoring of trough blood levels of cyclosporine and tacrolimus is recommended and adjust the dose when appropriate [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Data from a drug-drug interaction study involving 10 mg of amlodipine and 80 mg of atorvastatin in healthy subjects indicate that the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine are not altered when the drugs are co-administered. The effect of amlodipine on the pharmacokinetics of atorvastatin showed no effect on the C max : 91% (90% confidence interval: 80 to 103%), but the AUC of atorvastatin increased by 18% (90% confidence interval: 109 to 127%) in the presence of amlodipine, which is not clinically meaningful. No drug interaction studies have been conducted with amlodipine and atorvastatin and other drugs, although studies have been conducted in the individual amlodipine and atorvastatin components, as described below: Amlodipine See full prescribing information for details regarding concomitant use of amlodipine and atorvastatin tablets with other drugs or grapefruit juice that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis (2.5, 7.3 ). Rifampin: May reduce atorvastatin plasma concentrations. Administer simultaneously with atorvastatin ( 7.4 ) Oral Contraceptives: May increase plasma levels of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol; consider this effect when selecting an oral contraceptive ( 7.5 ). Digoxin: May increase digoxin plasma levels; monitor patients appropriately ( 7.5 ). 7.2 Impact of Amlodipine on Other Drugs Immunosuppressants Amlodipine may increase the systemic exposure of cyclosporine or tacrolimus when co-administered. Atorvastatin 7.3 Drug Interactions that may Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Atorvastatin Atorvastatin is a substrate of CYP3A4 and transporters (e.g., OATP1B1/1B3, P-gp, or BCRP). Atorvastatin plasma levels can be significantly increased with concomitant administration of inhibitors of CYP3A4 and transporters. Table 3 includes a list of drugs that may increase exposure to atorvastatin and may increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 3. Drug Interactions that may Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Atorvastatin Cyclosporine or Gemfibrozil Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin and cyclosporine, an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and OATP1B1 [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Gemfibrozil may cause myopathy when given alone. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of cyclosporine or gemfibrozil with atorvastatin . Intervention: Concomitant use of cyclosporine or gemfibrozil with atorvastatin is not recommended. Anti-Viral Medications Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin with many anti-viral medications, which are inhibitors of CYP3A4 and/or transporters (e.g., BCRP, OATP1B1/1B3, P-gp, MRP2, and/or OAT2) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with concomitant use of ledipasvir plus sofosbuvir with atorvastatin. Intervention: Concomitant use of tipranavir plus ritonavir or glecaprevir plus pibrentasvir with atorvastatin is not recommended. In patients taking lopinavir plus ritonavir, or simeprevir, consider the risk/benefit of concomitant use with atorvastatin. In patients taking saquinavir plus ritonavir, darunavir plus ritonavir, fosamprenavir, fosamprenavir plus ritonavir, elbasvir plus grazoprevir or letermovir do not exceed atorvastatin 20 mg. In patients taking nelfinavir, do not exceed atorvastatin 40 mg [see Dosage and Administration ( 2 )] . Consider the risk/benefit of concomitant use of ledipasvir plus sofosbuvir with atorvastatin. Monitor all patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy particularly during initiation of therapy and during upward dose titration of either drug. Examples: Tipranavir plus ritonavir, glecaprevir plus pibrentasvir, lopinavir plus ritonavir, simeprevir, saquinavir plus ritonavir, darunavir plus ritonavir, fosamprenavir, fosamprenavir plus ritonavir, elbasvir plus grazoprevir, letermovir, nelfinavir, and ledipasvir plus sofosbuvir . Select Azole Antifungals or Macrolide Antibiotics Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin with select azole antifungals or macrolide antibiotics, due to inhibition of CYP3A4 and/or transporters [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: In patients taking clarithromycin or itraconazole, do not exceed atorvastatin 20 mg [see Dosage and Administration ( 2 )] . Consider the risk/benefit of concomitant use of other azole antifungals or macrolide antibiotics with atorvastatin. Examples: Erythromycin, clarithromycin, itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, and voriconazole. Niacin Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been observed with concomitant use of lipid modifying dosages of niacin (≥1 gram/day niacin) with atorvastatin. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using lipid modifying dosages of niacin concomitantly with atorvastatin outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. If concomitant use is decided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy particularly during initiation of therapy and during upward dose titration of either drug. Fibrates (other than Gemfibrozil) Clinical Impact: Fibrates may cause myopathy when given alone. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of fibrates with atorvastatin. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using fibrates concomitantly with atorvastatin outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Colchicine Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with concomitant use of colchicine with atorvastatin. Intervention: Consider the risk/benefit of concomitant use of colchicine with atorvastatin. Grapefruit Juice Clinical Impact: Grapefruit juice consumption, especially excessive consumption, more than 1.2 liters/daily can raise the plasma levels of atorvastatin and may increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Intervention: Avoid intake of large quantities of grapefruit juice, more than 1.2 liters daily, when taking atorvastatin. 7.4 Drug Interactions that may Decrease Exposure to Atorvastatin Table 4 presents drug interactions that may decrease exposure to atorvastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 4. Drug Interactions that may Decrease Exposure to Atorvastatin Rifampin Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of atorvastatin with rifampin, an inducer of cytochrome P450 3A4 and inhibitor of OATP1B1, can lead to variable reductions in plasma concentrations of atorvastatin. Due to the dual interaction mechanism of rifampin, delayed administration of atorvastatin after administration of rifampin has been associated with a significant reduction in atorvastatin plasma concentrations. Intervention: Administer atorvastatin and rifampin simultaneously. 7.5 Atorvastatin Effects on Other Drugs Table 5 presents atorvastatin’s effect on other drugs and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 5. Atorvastatin Effects on Other Drugs Oral Contraceptives Clinical Impact: Co-administration of atorvastatin and an oral contraceptive increased plasma concentrations of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: Consider this when selecting an oral contraceptive for patients taking atorvastatin. Digoxin Clinical Impact: When multiple doses of atorvastatin and digoxin were co-administered, steady state plasma digoxin concentrations increased [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Intervention: Monitor patients taking digoxin appropriately. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Do not exceed doses greater than 20 mg daily of simvastatin ( 7.2 ). Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema when amlodipine is co-administered with CYP3A inhibitors to determine the need for dose adjustment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Sildenafil Monitor for hypotension when sildenafil is co-administered with amlodipine [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema when amlodipine is co-administered with CYP3A inhibitors to determine the need for dose adjustment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Sildenafil Monitor for hypotension when sildenafil is co-administered with amlodipine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amlodipine to 20 mg daily [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Frequent monitoring of trough blood levels of cyclosporine and tacrolimus is recommended and adjust the dose when appropriate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].

=== DICYCLOMINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dicyclomine hydrochloride capsules, USP are indicated for the treatment of patients with functional bowel/irritable bowel syndrome. Dicyclomine hydrochloride capsules, USP are an antispasmodic and anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) agent indicated for the treatment of functional bowel/irritable bowel syndrome (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dicyclomine hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the treatment of patients with functional bowel/irritable bowel syndrome. Dicyclomine hydrochloride capsules are an antispasmodic and anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) agent indicated for the treatment of functional bowel/irritable bowel syndrome ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dicyclomine hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of patients with functional bowel/irritable bowel syndrome. Dicyclomine hydrochloride is an antispasmodic and anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) agent indicated for the treatment of functional bowel/irritable bowel syndrome ( 1 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dicyclomine hydrochloride is indicated for the treatment of patients with functional bowel/irritable bowel syndrome. Dicyclomine hydrochloride is an antispasmodic and anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) agent indicated for the treatment of functional bowel/irritable bowel syndrome Dicyclomine hydrochloride tablets are an antispasmodic and anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) agent indicated for the treatment of functional bowel/irritable bowel syndrome ( 1 ) Dicyclomine hydrochloride is an antispasmodic and anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) agent indicated for the treatment of functional bowel/irritable bowel syndrome ( 1 ) Dicyclomine is an antispasmodic and anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) agent indicated for the treatment of functional bowel/irritable bowel syndrome ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dicyclomine hydrochloride is indicated for the treatment of patients with functional bowel/ irritable bowel syndrome.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage must be adjusted to individual patient needs. Dosage for dicyclomine hydrochloride capsules must be adjusted to individual patient needs (2) . If a dose is missed, patients should continue the normal dosing schedule (2) . Oral in adults (2.1 ) : Starting dose: 20 mg four times a day. After a week treatment with the starting dose, the dose may be escalated to 40 mg four times a day, unless side effects limit dosage escalation Discontinue dicyclomine hydrochloride if efficacy not achieved or side effects require doses less than 80 mg per day after two weeks of treatment 2.1 Oral Dosage and Administration in Adults The recommended initial dose is 20 mg four times a day. After one week treatment with the initial dose, the dose may be increased to 40 mg four times a day unless side effects limit dosage escalation. If efficacy is not achieved within 2 weeks or side effects require doses below 80 mg per day, the drug should be discontinued. Documented safety data are not available for doses above 80 mg daily for periods longer than 2 weeks. Dosage for dicyclomine hydrochloride capsules must be adjusted to individual patient needs ( 2 ). If a dose is missed, patients should continue the normal dosing schedule ( 2 ). Oral in adults ( 2.1 ): Starting dose: 20 mg four times a day. Dosage for dicyclomine hydrochloride tablets must be adjusted to individual patient needs ( 2 ). After a week treatment with the starting dose, the dose may be escalated to 40 mg four times a day, unless side effects limit dosage escalation. Discontinue dicyclomine hydrochloride if efficacy not achieved or side effects require doses less than 80 mg per day after two weeks of treatment. 2.1 Oral Dosage and Administration in Adults The recommended initial dose is 20 mg four times a day. Dosage for dicyclomine hydrochloride must be adjusted to individual patient needs ( 2 ). Oral in adults ( 2.1 ): • Starting dose: 20 mg four times a day. After a week treatment with the starting dose, the dose may be escalated to 40 mg four times a day, unless side effects limit dosage escalation • Discontinue dicyclomine hydrochloride tablets if efficacy not achieved or side effects require doses less than 80 mg per day after two weeks of treatment 2.1 Oral Dosage and Administration in Adults The recommended initial dose is 20 mg four times a day. After a week treatment with the starting dose, the dose may be escalated to 40 mg four times a day, unless side effects limit dosage escalation • Discontinue dicyclomine hydrochloride capsules if efficacy not achieved or side effects require doses less than 80 mg per day after two weeks of treatment 2.1 Oral Dosage and Administration in Adults The recommended initial dose is 20 mg four times a day. Dosage for dicyclomine must be adjusted to individual patient needs ( 2 ). Oral in adults ( 2.1 ): Starting dose: 20 mg 4 times a day. After a week treatment with the starting dose, the dose may be escalated to 40 mg 4 times a day, unless side effects limit dosage escalation Discontinue dicyclomine if efficacy not achieved or side effects require doses less than 80 mg per day after 2 weeks of treatment 2.1 Oral Dosage and Administration in Adults The recommended initial dose is 20 mg 4 times a day. After one week treatment with the initial dose, the dose may be increased to 40 mg 4 times a day unless side effects limit dosage escalation. Oral in adults ( 2.1 ): • Starting dose: 20 mg 4 times a day. After a week treatment with the starting dose, the dose may be escalated to 40 mg 4 times a day, unless side effects limit dosage escalation • Discontinue dicyclomine if efficacy not achieved or side effects require doses less than 80 mg per day after 2 weeks of treatment 2.1 Oral Dosage and Administration in Adults The recommended initial dose is 20 mg 4 times a day. After a week treatment with the starting dose, the dose may be escalated to 40 mg four times a day, unless side effects limit dosage escalation • Discontinue dicyclomine hydrochloride if efficacy not achieved or side effects require doses less than 80 mg per day after two weeks of treatment 2.1 Oral Dosage and Administration in Adults The recommended initial dose is 20 mg four times a day.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Dicyclomine hydrochloride is contraindicated in infants less than 6 months of age [see Use in Specific P opu l a ti on s (8.4 ) ], nursing mothers [see Use in Specific Populations (8.3) ] and in patients with: unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage myasthenia gravis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] glaucoma [see Adverse Reactions (6.3) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ] obstructive uropathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] severe ulcerative colitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] reflux esophagitis Infants less than 6 months of age (4) Nursing mothers (4) Unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage (4) Myasthenia gravis (4) Glaucoma (4) Obstructive uropathy (4) Obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract (4) Severe ulcerative colitis (4) Reflux esophagitis (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Dicyclomine hydrochloride is contraindicated in infants less than 6 months of age [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ], nursing mothers [see Use in Specific Populations (8.3) ], and in patients with: unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage myasthenia gravis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] glaucoma [see Adverse Reactions (6.3) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ] obstructive uropathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] severe ulcerative colitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] reflux esophagitis Infants less than 6 months of age ( 4 ) Nursing mothers ( 4 ) Unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ( 4 ) Myasthenia gravis ( 4 ) Glaucoma ( 4 ) Obstructive uropathy ( 4 ) Obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ( 4 ) Severe ulcerative colitis ( 4 ) Reflux esophagitis ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Dicyclomine hydrochloride is contraindicated in infants less than 6 months of age [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] , nursing mothers [see Use in Specific Populations (8.3) ] , and in patients with: unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage myasthenia gravis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] glaucoma [see Adverse Reactions (6.3) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ] obstructive uropathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] severe ulcerative colitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] reflux esophagitis Infants less than 6 months of age ( 4 ). Glaucoma ( 4 ). Nursing mothers ( 4 ). Obstructive uropathy ( 4 ). Unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ( 4 ). Obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ( 4 ). Myasthenia gravis ( 4 ). Severe ulcerative colitis ( 4 ). Reflux esophagitis ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Dicyclomine hydrochloride is contraindicated in infants less than 6 months of age [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] , nursing mothers [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.3 )] , and in patients with: unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage myasthenia gravis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] glaucoma [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.3 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] obstructive uropathy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] severe ulcerative colitis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] reflux esophagitis Infants less than 6 months of age ( 4 ) Glaucoma ( 4 ) Nursing mothers ( 4 ) Obstructive uropathy ( 4 ) Unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ( 4 ) Obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ( 4 ) Myasthenia gravis ( 4 ) Severe ulcerative colitis ( 4 ) Reflux esophagitis ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Dicyclomine hydrochloride is contraindicated in infants less than 6 months of age [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )], nursing mothers [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.3 )] , and in patients with: • unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage • myasthenia gravis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] • glaucoma [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.3 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] • obstructive uropathy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] • obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] • severe ulcerative colitis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] • reflux esophagitis • Infants less than 6 months of age ( 4 ) • Glaucoma ( 4 ) • Nursing mothers ( 4 ) • Obstructive uropathy ( 4 ) • Unstable cardiovascular status in acute haemorrhage ( 4 ) • Obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ( 4 ) • Myasthenia gravis ( 4 ) • Severe ulcerative colitis ( 4 ) • Reflux esophagitis ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Dicyclomine hydrochloride is contraindicated in infants less than 6 months of age [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] , nursing mothers [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.3 )] , and in patients with: • unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage • myasthenia gravis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] • glaucoma [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.3 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] • obstructive uropathy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] • obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] • severe ulcerative colitis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] • reflux esophagitis • Infants less than 6 months of age ( 4 ) • Nursing mothers ( 4 ) • Unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ( 4 ) • Myasthenia gravis ( 4 ) • Glaucoma ( 4 ) • Obstructive uropathy ( 4 ) • Obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ( 4 ) • Severe ulcerative colitis ( 4 ) • Reflux esophagitis ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Dicyclomine hydrochloride is contraindicated in infants less than 6 months of age [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ], nursing mothers [see Use in Specific Populations (8.3) ] and in patients with: unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage myasthenia gravis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] glaucoma [see Adverse Reactions (6.3) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ] obstructive uropathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] severe ulcerative colitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] reflux esophagitis Infants less than 6 months of age ( 4 ) Nursing mothers ( 4 ) Unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ( 4 ) Myasthenia gravis ( 4 ) Glaucoma ( 4 ) Obstructive uropathy ( 4 ) Obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ( 4 ) Severe ulcerative colitis ( 4 ) Reflux esophagitis ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Dicyclomine hydrochloride is contraindicated in infants less than 6 months of age [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ], nursing mothers [see Use in Specific Populations (8.3) ] and in patients with: • unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage • myasthenia gravis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] • glaucoma [see Adverse Reactions (6.3) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ] • obstructive uropathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] • obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] • severe ulcerative colitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] • reflux esophagitis • Infants less than 6 months of age ( 4 ) • Nursing mothers ( 4 ) • Unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ( 4 ) • Myasthenia gravis ( 4 ) • Glaucoma ( 4 ) • Obstructive uropathy ( 4 ) • Obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ( 4 ) • Severe ulcerative colitis ( 4 ) • Reflux esophagitis ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Dicyclomine hydrochloride is contraindicated in infants less than 6 months of age [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )], nursing mothers [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.3 )] , and in patients with: • unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage • myasthenia gravis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] • glaucoma [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.3 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] • obstructive uropathy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] • obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] • severe ulcerative colitis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] • reflux esophagitis • Infants less than 6 months of age ( 4 ) • Glaucoma ( 4 ) • Nursing mothers ( 4 ) • Obstructive uropathy ( 4 ) • Unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ( 4 ) • Obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ( 4 ) • Myasthenia gravis ( 4 ) • Severe ulcerative colitis ( 4 ) • Reflux esophagitis ( 4 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antiglaucoma agents : anticholinergics antagonize antiglaucoma agents and may increase intraoccular pressure (7) Anticholinergic agents : may affect the gastrointestinal absorption of various drugs; may also increase certain actions or side effects of other anticholinergic drugs (7) Antacids : interfere with the absorption of anticholinergic agents (7) 7.1 Antiglaucoma Agents Anticholinergics antagonize the effects of antiglaucoma agents. Anticholinergic drugs in the presence of increased intraocular pressure may be hazardous when taken concurrently with agents such as corticosteroids. Use of dicyclomine hydrochloride in patients with glaucoma is not recommended [see Contraindications (4) ]. 7.2 Other Drugs with Anticholinergic Activity The following agents may increase certain actions or side effects of anticholinergic drugs including dicyclomine hydrochloride: amantadine, antiarrhythmic agents of Class I (e.g., quinidine), antihistamines, antipsychotic agents (e.g., phenothiazines), benzodiazepines, MAO inhibitors, narcotic analgesics (e.g., meperidine), nitrates and nitrites, sympathomimetic agents, tricyclic antidepressants, and other drugs having anticholinergic activity. 7.3 Other Gastrointestinal Motility Drugs Interaction with other gastrointestinal motility drugs may antagonize the effects of drugs that alter gastrointestinal motility, such as metoclopramide. 7.4 Effect of Antacids Because antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergic agents including dicyclomine hydrochloride, simultaneous use of these drugs should be avoided. 7.5 Effect on Absorption of Other Drugs Anticholinergic agents may affect gastrointestinal absorption of various drugs by affecting on gastrointestinal motility, such as slowly dissolving dosage forms of digoxin; increased serum digoxin concentration may result. 7.6 Effect on Gastric Acid Secretion The inhibiting effects of anticholinergic drugs on gastric hydrochloric acid secretion are antagonized by agents used to treat achlorhydria and those used to test gastric secretion. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antiglaucoma agents : anticholinergics antagonize antiglaucoma agents and may increase intraoccular pressure ( 7 ) Anticholinergic agents : may affect the gastrointestinal absorption of various drugs; may also increase certain actions or side effects of other anticholinergic drugs ( 7 ) Antacids : interfere with the absorption of anticholinergic agents ( 7 ) 7.1 Antiglaucoma Agents Anticholinergics antagonize the effects of antiglaucoma agents. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antiglaucoma agents : Anticholinergics antagonize antiglaucoma agents and may increase intraocular pressure ( 7 ). Anticholinergic agents : May affect the gastrointestinal absorption of various drugs; may also increase certain actions or side effects of other anticholinergic drugs ( 7) . Antacids : Interfere with the absorption of anticholinergic agents ( 7 ). 7.1 Antiglaucoma Agents Anticholinergics antagonize the effects of antiglaucoma agents. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antiglaucoma agents : anticholinergics antagonize antiglaucoma agents and may increase intraocular pressure ( 7 ) Anticholinergic agents : may affect the gastrointestinal absorption of various drugs; may also increase certain actions or side effects of other anticholinergic drugs ( 7 ) Antacids : interfere with the absorption of anticholinergic agents ( 7 ) 7.1 Antiglaucoma Agents Anticholinergics antagonize the effects of antiglaucoma agents. Use of dicyclomine hydrochloride in patients with glaucoma is not recommended [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Antiglaucoma agents: anticholinergics antagonize antiglaucoma agents and may increase intraoccular pressure ( 7 ) • Anticholinergic agents: may affect the gastrointestinal absorption of various drugs; may also increase certain actions or side effects of other anticholinergic drugs ( 7 ) • Antacids : interfere with the absorption of anticholinergic agents ( 7 ) 7.1 Antiglaucoma Agents Anticholinergics antagonize the effects of antiglaucoma agents. Use of dicyclomine hydrochloride in patients with glaucoma is not recommended [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Antiglaucoma agents: anticholinergics antagonize antiglaucoma agents and may increase intraoccular pressure ( 7 ) • Anticholinergic agents: may affect the gastrointestinal absorption of various drugs; may also increase certain actions or side effects of other anticholinergic drugs ( 7 ) • Antacids: interfere with the absorption of anticholinergic agents ( 7 ) 7.1 Antiglaucoma Agents Anticholinergics antagonize the effects of antiglaucoma agents. Use of dicyclomine in patients with glaucoma is not recommended [see Contraindications (4) ]. 7.2 Other Drugs with Anticholinergic Activity The following agents may increase certain actions or side effects of anticholinergic drugs including dicyclomine: amantadine, antiarrhythmic agents of Class I (e.g., quinidine), antihistamines, antipsychotic agents (e.g., phenothiazines), benzodiazepines, MAO inhibitors, narcotic analgesics (e.g., meperidine), nitrates and nitrites, sympathomimetic agents, tricyclic antidepressants and other drugs having anticholinergic activity. 7.4 Effect of Antacids Because antacids may interfere with the absorption of anticholinergic agents including dicyclomine, simultaneous use of these drugs should be avoided. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Antiglaucoma agents : anticholinergics antagonize antiglaucoma agents and may increase intraoccular pressure ( 7 ) • Anticholinergic agents : may affect the gastrointestinal absorption of various drugs; may also increase certain actions or side effects of other anticholinergic drugs ( 7 ) • Antacids : interfere with the absorption of anticholinergic agents ( 7 ) 7.1 Antiglaucoma Agents Anticholinergics antagonize the effects of antiglaucoma agents. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Antiglaucoma agents: anticholinergics antagonize antiglaucoma agents and may increase intraocular pressure ( 7 ) • Anticholinergic agents: may affect the gastrointestinal absorption of various drugs; may also increase certain actions or side effects of other anticholinergic drugs ( 7 ) • Antacids : interfere with the absorption of anticholinergic agents ( 7 ) 7.1 Antiglaucoma Agents Anticholinergics antagonize the effects of antiglaucoma agents.

=== PHENTERMINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phentermine hydrochloride is indicated as a short-term (a few weeks) adjunct in a regimen of weight reduction based on exercise, behavioral modification and caloric restriction in the management of exogenous obesity for patients with an initial body mass index ≥ 30 kg/m 2 , or ≥ 27 kg/m 2 in the presence of other risk factors (e.g., controlled hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia). Below is a chart of body mass index (BMI) based on various heights and weights. BMI is calculated by taking the patient's weight, in kilograms (kg), divided by the patient's height, in meters (m), squared. Metric conversions are as follows: pounds ÷ 2.2 = kg; inches × 0.0254 = meters. BODY MASS INDEX (BMI), kg/m 2 The limited usefulness of agents of this class, including phentermine hydrochloride tablets, [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.1 , 12.2) ] should be measured against possible risk factors inherent in their use such as those described below. Phentermine hydrochloride is a sympathomimetic amine anorectic indicated as a short-term adjunct (a few weeks) in a regimen of weight reduction based on exercise, behavioral modification and caloric restriction in the management of exogenous obesity for patients with an initial body mass index ≥ 30 kg/m 2 , or ≥ 27 kg/m 2 in the presence of other risk factors (e.g., controlled hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia). ( 1 ) The limited usefulness of agents of this class, including phentermine hydrochloride, should be measured against possible risk factors inherent in their use. ( 1 ) Figure 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phentermine hydrochloride capsules are indicated as a short-term (a few weeks) adjunct in a regimen of weight reduction based on exercise, behavioral modification and caloric restriction in the management of exogenous obesity for patients with an initial body mass index ≥30 kg/m 2 , or ≥27 kg/m 2 in the presence of other risk factors (e.g., controlled hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia). BODY MASS INDEX (BMI), kg/m 2 Height (feet, inches) Weight (pounds) 5'0" 5'3" 5'6" 5'9" 6'0" 6'3" 140 27 25 23 21 19 18 150 29 27 24 22 20 19 160 31 28 26 24 22 20 170 33 30 28 25 23 21 180 35 32 29 27 25 23 190 37 34 31 28 26 24 200 39 36 32 30 27 25 210 41 37 34 31 29 26 220 43 39 36 33 30 28 230 45 41 37 34 31 29 240 47 43 39 36 33 30 250 49 44 40 37 34 31 The limited usefulness of agents of this class, including phentermine, [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.1 , 12.2) ] should be measured against possible risk factors inherent in their use such as those described below. Phentermine hydrochloride is a sympathomimetic amine anorectic indicated as a short-term adjunct (a few weeks) in a regimen of weight reduction based on exercise, behavioral modification and caloric restriction in the management of exogenous obesity for patients with an initial body mass index ≥30 kg/m 2 , or ≥27 kg/m 2 in the presence of other risk factors (e.g., controlled hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia). ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phentermine Hydrochloride Capsules USP, 37.5 mg are indicated as a short-term (a few weeks) adjunct in a regimen of weight reduction based on exercise, behavioral modification and caloric restriction in the management of exogenous obesity for patients with an initial body mass index ≥30 kg/m 2 , or ≥27 kg/m 2 in the presence of other risk factors (e.g., controlled hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia). BMI is calculated by taking the patient’s weight, in kilograms (kg), divided by the patient’s height, in meters (m), squared. Metric conversions are as follows: pounds ÷ 2.2 = kg; inches x 0.0254 = meters. BODY MASS INDEX (BMI), kg/m 2 Height (feet, inches) Weight (pounds) 5'0" 5'3" 5'6" 5'9" 6'0" 6'3" 140 27 25 23 21 19 18 150 29 27 24 22 20 19 160 31 28 26 24 22 20 170 33 30 28 25 23 21 180 35 32 29 27 25 23 190 37 34 31 28 26 24 200 39 36 32 30 27 25 210 41 37 34 31 29 26 220 43 39 36 33 30 28 230 45 41 37 34 31 29 240 47 43 39 36 33 30 250 49 44 40 37 34 31 The limited usefulness of agents of this class, including phentermine [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.1 , 12.2 )] should be measured against possible risk factors inherent in their use such as those described below. Phentermine hydrochloride is a sympathomimetic amine anorectic indicated as a short-term adjunct (a few weeks) in a regimen of weight reduction based on exercise, behavioral modification and caloric restriction in the management of exogenous obesity for patients with an initial body mass index ≥30 kg/m 2 , or ≥27 kg/m 2 in the presence of other risk factors (e.g., controlled hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia. INDICATIONS AND USAGE LOMAIRA™ tablets are indicated as a short-term (a few weeks) adjunct in a regimen of weight reduction based on exercise, behavioral modification and caloric restriction in the management of exogenous obesity in patients with an initial body mass index greater than or equal to 30 kg/m 2 , or greater than or equal to 27 kg/m 2 in the presence of other risk factors (e.g., controlled hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia). BODY MASS INDEX (BMI), kg/m 2 The limited usefulness of agents of this class, including phentermine (see Clinical Pharmacology ), should be measured against possible risk factors inherent in their use such as those described below. table 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phentermine Hydrochloride, USP 15 mg and 30 mg is indicated as a short-term (a few weeks) adjunct in a regimen of weight reduction based on exercise, behavioral modification and caloric restriction in the management of exogenous obesity for patients with an initial body mass index greater than or equal to 30 kg/m 2 , or greater than or equal to 27 kg/m 2 in the presence of other risk factors (e.g., controlled hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia). The limited usefulness of agents of this class, including Phentermine hydrochloride, [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.1 , 12.2 ) ] should be measured against possible risk factors inherent in their use such as those described below. Phentermine Hydrochloride is a sympathomimetic amine anorectic indicated as a short-term adjunct (a few weeks) in a regimen of weight reduction based on exercise, behavioral modification and caloric restriction in the management of exogenous obesity for patients with an initial body mass index greater than or equal to 30 kg/m 2 , or greater than or equal to 27 kg/m 2 in the presence of other risk factors (e.g., controlled hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia). ( 1 ) BMI 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phentermine hydrochloride Tablets are indicated as a short-term (a few weeks) adjunct in a regimen of weight reduction based on exercise, behavioral modification and caloric restriction in the management of exogenous obesity for patients with an initial body mass index ≥ 30 kg/m 2 , or ≥ 27 kg/m 2 in the presence of other risk factors (e.g., controlled hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia). BODY MASS INDEX (BMI), kg/m 2 The limited usefulness of agents of this class, including phentermine, [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.1 , 12.2 ) ] should be measured against possible risk factors inherent in their use such as those described below. ( 1 ) BMI Chart 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phentermine hydrochloride, USP 37.5 mg is indicated as short-term (a few weeks) adjunct in a regimen of weight reduction based on exercise, behavioral modification and caloric restriction in the management of exogenous obesity for patients with an initial body mass index greater than or equal to 30 kg/m2, or greater than or equal to 27 kg/m2 in the presence of other risk factors (e.g., controlled hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia). The limited usefulness of agents of this class, including Phentermine hydrochloride, [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.1 , 12.2 )] should be measured against possible risk factors inherent in their use such as those described below. Phentermine Hydrochloride is a sympathomimetic amine anorectic indicated as a short-term adjunct (a few weeks) in a regimen of weight reduction based on exercise, behavioral modification and caloric restriction in the management of exogenous obesity for patients with an initial body mass index greater than or equal to 30 kg/m2, or greater than or equal to 27 kg/m2 in the presence of other risk factors (e.g., controlled hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia). ( 1 ) BMI Index
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be individualized to obtain an adequate response with the lowest effective dose. (2.1) Late evening administration should be avoided (risk of insomnia). (2.1) Phentermine hydrochloride tablets can be taken with or without food. (2.1) Limit the dosage to 15 mg daily for patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 29 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) (2.2) 2.1 Exogenous Obesity Dosage should be individualized to obtain an adequate response with the lowest effective dose. The usual adult dose is one tablet (37.5 mg) daily, as prescribed by the physician, administered before breakfast or 1 to 2 hours after breakfast. The dosage may be adjusted to the patient’s need. For some patients, half tablet (18.75 mg) daily may be adequate, while in some cases it may be desirable to give half tablets (18.75 mg) two times a day. Phentermine hydrochloride is not recommended for use in pediatric patients ≤ 16 years of age. Late evening medication should be avoided because of the possibility of resulting insomnia. 2.2 Dosage in Patients With Renal Impairment The recommended maximum dosage of phentermine hydrochloride are 15 mg daily for patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 29 mL min/1.73m 2 ). Avoid use of phentermine hydrochloride in patients with eGFR less than 15 mL/min/1.73m 2 or end-stage renal disease requiring dialysis [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. ( 2.1 ) Late evening administration should be avoided (risk of insomnia). ( 2.1 ) Phentermine hydrochloride capsules can be taken with or without food ( 2.1 ) Limit the dosage to 15 mg daily for patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 29 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Exogenous Obesity Dosage should be individualized to obtain an adequate response with the lowest effective dose. The usual adult dose is 15 mg to 30 mg as prescribed by the physician, at approximately 2 hours after breakfast for appetite control. Administration of one 30 mg capsule daily has been found to be adequate in depression of the appetite for 12 to 14 hours. Phentermine is not recommended for use in pediatric patients ≤ 16 years of age. 2.2 Dosage in Patients With Renal Impairment The recommended maximum dosage of phentermine is 15 mg daily for patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 29 mL/min/1.73m 2 ). Avoid use of phentermine in patients with eGFR less than 15 mL/min/1.73m 2 or end-stage renal disease requiring dialysis [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Dosage should be individualized to obtain an adequate response with the lowest effective dose. ( 2 .1) • Late evening administration should be avoided (risk of insomnia). ( 2 .1) • Phentermine hydrochloride capsules can be taken with or without food. ( 2. 1) • Limit the dosage to 15 mg daily for patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 29 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ). (2.2) 2.1 Exogenous Obesity Generic Section Dosage should be individualized to obtain an adequate response with the lowest effective dose. The usual adult dose is one capsule (37.5 mg) daily, as prescribed by the physician, administered before breakfast or 1 to 2 hours after breakfast for appetite control. Avoid use of phentermine in patients with eGFR less than 15 mL/min/1.73m 2 or end-stage renal disease requiring dialysis [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be individualized to obtain an adequate response with the lowest effective dose. The usual adult dose is one tablet three times a day ½ hour before meals. This tablet is scored to facilitate administering one half of the usual dosage for patients not requiring the full dose. Phentermine hydrochloride is not recommended for use in pediatric patients less than or equal to 16 years of age. Phentermine is not recommended for use in pediatric patients ≤16 years of age. ( 2.1 ) Phentermine Hydrochloride can be taken with or without food. ( 2.1 ) Limit the dosage to 15 mg daily for patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 29 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Exogenous Obesity Dosage should be individualized to obtain an adequate response with the lowest effective dose. The usual adult dose is 15 mg to 30 mg at approximately 2 hours after breakfast for appetite control. Administration of one capsule (30 mg) daily has been found to be adequate in depression of the appetite for 12 to 14 hours. Phentermine is not recommended for use in patients 16 years of age and under. 2.2 Dosage in Patients With Renal Impairment The recommended maximum dosage of phentermine hydrochloride is 15 mg daily for patients with severe renal impairments (eGFR 15 to 29 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ). Avoid use of phentermine hydrochloride in patients with eGFR less than 15 mL/min/1.73 m 2 or end-stage renal disease requiring dialysis [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . ( 2.1 ) Phentermine Hydrochloride Tablets can be taken with or without food. Avoid use of phentermine in patients with eGFR less than 15 mL/min/1.73m 2 or end-stage renal disease requiring dialysis [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. (2.1) • Late evening administration should be avoided (risk of insomnia). (2.1) • Phentermine hydrochloride tablets can be taken with or without food. (2.1) • Limit the dosage to 15 mg daily for patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 29 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) (2.2) 2.1 Exogenous Obesity Dosage should be individualized to obtain an adequate response with the lowest effective dose. ( 2.1 ) Limit the dosage to 15 mg daily for patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR 15 to 29 mL/min/1.73 m2) ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Exogenous Obesity Dosage should be individualized to obtain an adequate response with the lowest effective dose. 2.2 Dosage in Patients With Renal Impairment The recommended maximum dosage of phentermine hydrochloride is 15 mg daily for patients with severe renal impairments (eGFR 15 to 29 mL/min/1.73 m2). Avoid use of phentermine hydrochloride in patients with eGFR less than 15 mL/min/1.73 m2 or end-stage renal disease requiring dialysis [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Capsules containing 15 mg or 30 mg phentermine hydrochloride (equivalent to 12 mg or 24 mg phentermine base, respectively). 15 mg capsules: gray/yellow; imprinted "EL600" in black ink on cap and body, filled with white to off-white powder. 30 mg capsules: yellow; imprinted "EL601" in black ink on cap and body, filled with white to off-white powder. Capsules containing 15 mg or 30mg phentermine hydrochloride. ( 3 )
Warnings: WARNINGS Coadministration with Other Drug Products for Weight Loss LOMAIRA™ tablets are indicated only as short-term (a few weeks) monotherapy for the management of exogenous obesity. The safety and efficacy of combination therapy with phentermine and any other drug products for weight loss including prescribed drugs, over-the-counter preparations, and herbal products, or serotonergic agents such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (e.g., fluoxetine, sertraline, fluvoxamine, paroxetine), have not been established. Therefore, coadministration of phentermine and these drug products is not recommended. Primary Pulmonary Hypertension Primary Pulmonary Hypertension (PPH) – a rare, frequently fatal disease of the lungs – has been reported to occur in patients receiving a combination of phentermine with fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine. The possibility of an association between PPH and the use of phentermine alone cannot be ruled out; there have been rare cases of PPH in patients who reportedly have taken phentermine alone. The initial symptom of PPH is usually dyspnea. Other initial symptoms may include angina pectoris, syncope or lower extremity edema. Patients should be advised to report immediately any deterioration in exercise tolerance. Treatment should be discontinued in patients who develop new, unexplained symptoms of dyspnea, angina pectoris, syncope or lower extremity edema, and patients should be evaluated for the possible presence of pulmonary hypertension. Valvular Heart Disease Serious regurgitant cardiac valvular disease, primarily affecting the mitral, aortic and/or tricuspid valves, has been reported in otherwise healthy persons who had taken a combination of phentermine with fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine for weight loss. The possible role of phentermine in the etiology of these valvulopathies has not been established and their course in individuals after the drugs are stopped is not known. The possibility of an association between valvular heart disease and the use of phentermine alone cannot be ruled out; there have been rare cases of valvular heart disease in patients who reportedly have taken phentermine alone. Development of Tolerance, Discontinuation in Case of Tolerance When tolerance to the anorectant effect develops, the recommended dose should not be exceeded in an attempt to increase the effect; rather, the drug should be discontinued. Effect on the Ability to Engage in Potentially Hazardous Tasks Phentermine may impair the ability of the patient to engage in potentially hazardous activities such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle; the patient should therefore be cautioned accordingly. Risk of Abuse and Dependence Phentermine is related chemically and pharmacologically to amphetamine (d- and dll-amphetamine) and other related stimulant drugs have been extensively abused. The possibility of abuse of phentermine should be kept in mind when evaluating the desirability of including a drug as part of a weight reduction program. See Adverse Reactions / Drug Abuse and Dependence and Overdosage . The least amount feasible should be prescribed or dispensed at one time in order to minimize the possibility of overdosage. Usage with Alcohol Concomitant use of alcohol with phentermine may result in an adverse drug reaction. Use in Patients with Hypertension Use caution in prescribing phentermine for patients with even mild hypertension (risk of increase in blood pressure). Use in Patients on Insulin or Oral Hypoglycemic Medications for Diabetes Mellitus A reduction in insulin or oral hypoglycemic medications in patients with diabetes mellitus may be required.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS History of cardiovascular disease (e.g., coronary artery disease, stroke, arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, uncontrolled hypertension) During or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors Hyperthyroidism Glaucoma Agitated states History of drug abuse Pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ] Nursing [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.3) ] Known hypersensitivity, or idiosyncrasy to the sympathomimetic amines History of cardiovascular disease (e.g., coronary artery disease, stroke, arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, uncontrolled hypertension) ( 4 ) During or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( 4 ) Hyperthyroidism ( 4 ) Glaucoma ( 4 ) Agitated states ( 4 ) History of drug abuse ( 4 ) Pregnancy ( 4 , 8.1 ) Nursing ( 4 , 8.3 ) Known hypersensitivity, or idiosyncrasy to the sympathomimetic amines ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS History of cardiovascular disease (e.g., coronary artery disease, stroke, arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, uncontrolled hypertension) During or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors Hyperthyroidism Glaucoma Agitated states History of drug abuse Pregnancy [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ] Nursing [see Use in Specific Populations (8.3) ] Known hypersensitivity, or idiosyncrasy to the sympathomimetic amines History of cardiovascular disease (e.g., coronary artery disease, stroke, arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, uncontrolled hypertension) ( 4 ) During or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( 4 ) Hyperthyroidism ( 4 ) Glaucoma ( 4 ) Agitated states ( 4 ) History of drug abuse ( 4 ) Pregnancy ( 4 , 8.1 ) Nursing ( 4 , 8.3 ) Known hypersensitivity, or idiosyncrasy to the sympathomimetic amines ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • History of cardiovascular disease (e.g., coronary artery disease, stroke, arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, uncontrolled hypertension) • During or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors • Hyperthyroidism • Glaucoma • Agitated states • History of drug abuse • Pregnancy [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 )] • Nursing [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.3 )] • Known hypersensitivity, or idiosyncrasy to the sympathomimetic amines • History of cardiovascular disease (e.g., coronary artery disease, stroke, arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, uncontrolled hypertension) ( 4 ) • During or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( 4 ) • Hyperthyroidism ( 4 ) • Glaucoma ( 4 ) • Agitated states ( 4 ) • History of drug abuse ( 4 ) • Pregnancy ( 4 , 8.1 ) • Nursing ( 4 , 8.3 ) • Known hypersensitivity, or idiosyncrasy to the sympathomimetic amines ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS • History of cardiovascular disease (e.g., coronary artery disease, stroke, arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, uncontrolled hypertension) • During or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors • Hyperthyroidism • Glaucoma • Agitated states • History of drug abuse • Pregnancy (see Precautions ) • Nursing (see Precautions ) • Known hypersensitivity, or idiosyncrasy to the sympathomimetic amines 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS History of cardiovascular disease (e.g., coronary artery disease, stroke, arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, uncontrolled hypertension) During or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors Hyperthyroidism Glaucoma Agitated states History of drug abuse Pregnancy [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 )] Nursing [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.3 )] Known hypersensitivity, or idiosyncrasy to the sympathomimetic amines History of cardiovascular disease (e.g., coronary artery disease, stroke, arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, uncontrolled hypertension) ( 4 ) During or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( 4 ) Hyperthyroidism ( 4 ) Glaucoma ( 4 ) Agitated states ( 4 ) History of drug abuse ( 4 ) Pregnancy ( 4 , 8.1 ) Nursing ( 4 , 8.3 ) Known hypersensitivity, or idiosyncrasy to the sympathomimetic amines ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS History of cardiovascular disease (e.g., coronary artery disease, stroke, arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, uncontrolled hypertension) During or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors Hyperthyroidism Glaucoma Agitated states History of drug abuse Pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 ) ] Nursing [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.3 ) ] Known hypersensitivity, or idiosyncrasy to the sympathomimetic amines History of cardiovascular disease (e.g., coronary artery disease, stroke, arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, uncontrolled hypertension) (4) During or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (4) Hyperthyroidism (4) Glaucoma (4) Agitated states (4) History of drug abuse (4) Pregnancy ( 4 , 8.1 ) Nursing ( 4 , 8.3 ) Known hypersensitivity, or idiosyncrasy to the sympathomimetic amines (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • History of cardiovascular disease (e.g., coronary artery disease, stroke, arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, uncontrolled hypertension) • During or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors • Hyperthyroidism • Glaucoma • Agitated states • History of drug abuse • Pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ] • Nursing [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.3) ] • Known hypersensitivity, or idiosyncrasy to the sympathomimetic amines • History of cardiovascular disease (e.g., coronary artery disease, stroke, arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, uncontrolled hypertension) ( 4 ) • During or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( 4 ) • Hyperthyroidism ( 4 ) • Glaucoma ( 4 ) • Agitated states ( 4 ) • History of drug abuse ( 4 ) • Pregnancy ( 4 , 8.1 ) • Nursing ( 4 , 8.3 ) • Known hypersensitivity, or idiosyncrasy to the sympathomimetic amines ( 4 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: Risk of hypertensive crisis. ( 4 , 7.1 ) Alcohol: Consider potential interaction. ( 7.2 ) Insulin and oral hypoglycemics: Requirements may be altered. ( 7.3 ) Adrenergic neuron blocking drugs: Hypotensive effect may be decreased by phentermine. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Use of phentermine is contraindicated during or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors because of the risk of hypertensive crisis . 7.2 Alcohol Concomitant use of alcohol with phentermine may result in an adverse drug reaction . 7.3 Insulin and Oral Hypoglycemic Medications Requirements may be altered [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ]. 7.4 Adrenergic Neuron Blocking Drugs Phentermine may decrease the hypotensive effect of adrenergic neuron blocking drugs. ( 4 , 7.1 ) Alcohol: Consider potential interaction ( 7.2 ) Insulin and oral hypoglycemics: Requirements may be altered. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Use of phentermine is contraindicated during or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors because of the risk of hypertensive crisis. 7.2 Alcohol Concomitant use of alcohol with phentermine may result in an adverse drug reaction. 7.3 Insulin and Oral Hypoglycemic Medications Requirements may be altered [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Monoamine oxidase inhibitors: Risk of hypertensive crisis. ( 4 , 7.1 ) • Alcohol: Consider potential interaction ( 7.2 ) • Insulin and oral hypoglycemics: Requirements may be altered. ( 7.3 ) • Adrenergic neuron blocking drugs: Hypotensive effect may be decreased by phentermine. 7.3 Insulin and Oral Hypoglycemic Medications Requirements may be altered [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )]. Drug Interactions In a single-dose study comparing the exposures after oral administration of a combination capsule of 15 mg phentermine and 92 mg topiramate to the exposures after oral administration of a 15 mg phentermine capsule or a 92 mg topiramate capsule, there is no significant topiramate exposure change in the presence of phentermine. However in the presence of topiramate, phentermine C max and AUC increase 13% and 42 % respectively. 7.3 Insulin and Oral Hypoglycemic Medications Requirements may be altered [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 ) ]. 7.3 Insulin and Oral Hypoglycemic Medications Requirements may be altered [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 ) ]. ( 4 , 7.1 ) • Alcohol: Consider potential interaction. ( 7.2 ) • Insulin and oral hypoglycemics: Requirements may be altered. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Use of phentermine is contraindicated during or within 14 days following the administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors because of the risk of hypertensive crisis 7.2 Alcohol Concomitant use of alcohol with phentermine may result in an adverse drug reaction.

=== MELOXICAM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Meloxicam tablet USP is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for: Osteoarthritis (OA) ( 1.1 ) Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) ( 1.2 ) Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) in patients who weigh ≥60 kg ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Osteoarthritis (OA Meloxicam tablets USP are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) Meloxicam tablets USP are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . 1.3 Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) Pauciarticular and Polyarticular Course Meloxicam tablets USP are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of pauciarticular or polyarticular course Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis in patients who weigh ≥60 kg [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . 1. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Meloxicam tablets are a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for: Osteoarthritis (OA) ( 1.1 ) Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Osteoarthritis (OA) Meloxicam tablets are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) Meloxicam tablet are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Meloxicam is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for: Osteoarthritis (OA) (1.1) Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) (1.2) Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) in patients who weigh ≥60 kg (1.3) 1.1 Osteoarthritis (OA) Meloxicam is indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis [ see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) Meloxicam is indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1.3 Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) Pauciarticular and Polyarticular Course Meloxicam is indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of pauciarticular or polyarticular course Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis in patients who weigh ≥60 kg [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Meloxicam Tablets are non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for: Osteoarthritis (OA) ( 1.1 ) Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) ( 1.2 ) Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) in patients who weigh ≥ 60 kg ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Osteoarthritis (OA) Meloxicam tablets are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) Meloxicam tablets are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. 1.3 Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) Pauciarticular and Polyarticular Course Meloxicam tablets are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of pauciarticular or polyarticular course Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis in patients who weigh ≥60 kg [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ]. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Meloxicam tablets are a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for: Osteoarthritis (OA) ( 1.1 ) Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) ( 1.2 ) Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) in patients who weigh ≥60 kg ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Osteoarthritis (OA) Meloxicam tablets are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) Meloxicam tablets are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1.3 Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) Pauciarticular and Polyarticular Course Meloxicam tablets are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of pauciarticular or polyarticular course Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis in patients who weigh ≥60 kg [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Meloxicam tablets are a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for: Osteoarthritis (OA) ( 1.1 ) Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) ( 1.2 ) Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) in patients who weigh ≥60 kg ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Osteoarthritis (OA) Meloxicam tablets are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) Meloxicam tablets are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Meloxicam tablets are a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for: Osteoarthritis (OA) (1.1) Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) (1.2) Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) in patients who weigh ≥60 kg (1.3) 1.1 Osteoarthritis (OA) Meloxicam tablets are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) Meloxicam tablets are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. 1.3 Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) Pauciarticular and Polyarticular Course Meloxicam tablets are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of pauciarticular or polyarticular course Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis in patients who weigh ≥60 kg [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Clinical Studies (14.2)]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Meloxicam is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for: Osteoarthritis (OA) ( 1.1 ) Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) ( 1.2 ) Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) in patients who weigh ≥60 kg ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Osteoarthritis (OA) Meloxicam tablets are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. 1.3 Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) Pauciarticular and Polyarticular Course Meloxicam tablets are indicated for relief of the signs and symptoms of pauciarticular or polyarticular course Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis in patients who weigh ≥60 kg [ see Dosage and Administration (2.) and Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ].
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals ( 2.1 ) OA ( 2.2 ) and RA (2.3): Starting dose: 7.5 mg once daily Dose may be increased to 15 mg once daily JRA ( 2.4 ): 7.5 mg once daily in children ≥60 kg Meloxicam Tablets are not interchangeable with approved formulations of oral meloxicam even if the total milligram strength is the same ( 2.6 ) 2.1 General Dosing Instructions Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of meloxicam tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use meloxicam tablets. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )] . After observing the response to initial therapy with meloxicam tablets, adjust the dose to suit an individual patient's needs. In adults, the maximum recommended daily oral dose of meloxicam tablets is 15 mg regardless of formulation. In patients with hemodialysis, a maximum daily dosage of 7.5 mg is recommended [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Meloxicam tablets may be taken without regard to timing of meals. 2.2 Osteoarthritis For the relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis the recommended starting and maintenance oral dose of meloxicam tablets is 7.5 mg once daily. Some patients may receive additional benefit by increasing the dose to 15 mg once daily. 2.3 Rheumatoid Arthritis For the relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis, the recommended starting and maintenance oral dose of meloxicam tablets is 7.5 mg once daily. 2.4 Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) Pauciarticular and Polyarticular Course For the treatment of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, the recommended oral dose of meloxicam is 7.5 mg once daily in children who weigh ≥60 kg. There was no additional benefit demonstrated by increasing the dose above 7.5 mg in clinical trials. Meloxicam tablets should not be used in children who weigh <60 kg. 2.5 Renal Impairment The use of meloxicam in subjects with severe renal impairment is not recommended. In patients on hemodialysis, the maximum dosage of meloxicam is 7.5 mg per day [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2.6 Non-Interchangeability with Other Formulations of Meloxicam Meloxicam Tablets have not shown equivalent systemic exposure to other approved formulations of oral meloxicam. Therefore, Meloxicam Tablets are not interchangeable with other formulations of oral meloxicam product even if the total milligram strength is the same. Do not substitute similar dose strengths of Meloxicam Tablets with other formulations of oral meloxicam product. 2. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual treatment goals for the individual patient. • OA ( 2.2 ) and RA ( 2.3 ): Starting dose: 7.5 mg once daily Dose may be increased to 15 mg once daily 2.1 General Instructions Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of meloxicam tablets USP and other treatment options before deciding to use meloxicam tablets USP. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. After observing the response to initial therapy with meloxicam tablets USP, adjust the dose to suit an individual patient's needs. In adults, the maximum recommended daily oral dose of meloxicam tablets USP is 15 mg regardless of formulation. In patients with hemodialysis, a maximum daily dosage of 7.5 mg is recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) , Use in Specific Populations (8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Meloxicam tablets USP may be taken without regard to timing of meals. 2.2 Osteoarthritis For the relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis the recommended starting and maintenance oral dose of meloxicam tablets USP is 7.5 mg once daily. 2.3 Rheumatoid Arthritis For the relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis, the recommended starting and maintenance oral dose of meloxicam tablets USP is 7.5 mg once daily. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (2.1). OA (2.2) and RA (2.3) : Starting dose: 7.5 mg once daily Dose may be increased to 15 mg once daily JRA (2.4) : 7.5mg once daily in children ≥60 kg Meloxicam tablets are not interchangeable with approved formulations of oral meloxicam even if the total milligram strength is the same (2.6) 2.1 General Dosing Instructions Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of meloxicam and other treatment options before deciding to use meloxicam. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [ see Warnings and Precautions (5) ]. After observing the response to initial therapy with meloxicam, adjust the dose to suit an individual patient's needs. In adults, the maximum recommended daily oral dose of meloxicam is 15 mg regardless of formulation. In patients with hemodialysis, a maximum daily dosage of 7.5 mg is recommended [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Meloxicam may be taken without regard to timing of meals. 2.2 Osteoarthritis For the relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis the recommended starting and maintenance oral dose of meloxicam is 7.5 mg once daily. 2.3 Rheumatoid Arthritis For the relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis, the recommended starting and maintenance oral dose of meloxicam is 7.5 mg once daily. Meloxicam tablets should not be used in children who weigh ≥60 kg. In patients on hemodialysis, the maximum dosage of meloxicam is 7.5 mg per day [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals ( 2.1 ). OA ( 2.2 ) and RA ( 2.3 ): ο Starting dose: 7.5 mg once daily ο Dose may be increased to 15 mg once daily JRA ( 2.4 ): 7.5 mg once daily in children ≥ 60 kg Meloxicam tablets are not interchangeable with approved formulations of oral meloxicam even if the total milligram strength is the same ( 2.6 ) 2.1 General Dosing Instructions Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of meloxicam tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use meloxicam tablets. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ]. In adults, the maximum recommended daily oral dose of meloxicam tablets are 15 mg regardless of formulation. In patients with hemodialysis, a maximum daily dosage of 7.5 mg is recommended [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 2.4 Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) Pauciarticular and Polyarticular Course For the treatment of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, the recommended oral dose of meloxicam tablets is 7.5 mg once daily in children who weigh ≥60 kg. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals ( 2.1 ) • OA ( 2.2 ) and RA ( 2.3 ): Starting dose: 7.5 mg once daily Dose may be increased to 15 mg once daily • JRA ( 2.4 ): 7.5 mg once daily in children ≥60 kg • Meloxicam Tablets are not interchangeable with approved formulations of oral meloxicam even if the total milligram strength is the same ( 2.6 ) 2.1 General Dosing Instructions Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of meloxicam tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use meloxicam tablets. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ]. In patients with hemodialysis, a maximum daily dosage of 7.5 mg is recommended [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.5 Renal Impairment The use of meloxicam tablets in subjects with severe renal impairment is not recommended. In patients on hemodialysis, the maximum dosage of meloxicam tablets is 7.5 mg per day [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals ( 2.1 ) OA ( 2.2 ) and RA ( 2.3 ): Starting dose: 7.5 mg once daily Dose may be increased to 15 mg once daily JRA ( 2.4 ): 7.5 mg once daily in children ≥60 kg Meloxicam Tablets are not interchangeable with approved formulations of oral meloxicam even if the total milligram strength is the same ( 2.6 ) 2.1 General Dosing Instructions Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of Meloxicam tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use Meloxicam tablets. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )]. In patients with hemodialysis, a maximum daily dosage of 7.5 mg is recommended [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. In patients on hemodialysis, the maximum dosage of Meloxicam tablets is 7.5 mg per day [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (2.1) • OA (2.2) and RA (2.3): Starting dose: 7.5 mg once daily Dose may be increased to 15 mg once daily • JRA (2.4): 7.5 mg once daily in children ≥60 kg • Meloxicam Tablets are not interchangeable with approved formulations of oral meloxicam even if the total milligram strength is the same (2.6) 2.1 General Dosing Instructions Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of meloxicam tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use meloxicam tablets. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions (5)]. In patients with hemodialysis, a maximum daily dosage of 7.5 mg is recommended [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . In patients on hemodialysis, the maximum dosage of meloxicam tablets is 7.5 mg per day [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals. ( 2.1 ). OA ( 2.2 ) and RA ( 2.3 ):​​ - Starting dose: 7.5 mg once daily - Dose may be increased to 15 mg once daily JRA ( 2.4 ): - 7.5 mg once daily in children ≥60 kg Meloxicam Tablets, USP are not interchangeable with approved formulations of oral meloxicam even if the total milligram strength is the same ( 2.6 ) 2.1 General Instructions Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of Meloxicam Tablets, USP and other treatment options before deciding to use Meloxicam Tablets, USP. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ]. After observing the response to initial therapy with Meloxicam Tablets, USP, adjust the dose to suit an individual patient's needs. In adults, the maximum recommended daily oral dose of Meloxicam Tablets, USP is 15 mg regardless of formulation. Meloxicam Tablets, USP may be taken without regard to timing of meals. 2.2 Osteoarthritis For the relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis the recommended starting and maintenance oral dose of Meloxicam Tablets, USP is 7.5 mg once daily. 2.3 Rheumatoid Arthritis For the relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis, the recommended starting and maintenance oral dose of Meloxicam Tablets, USP is 7.5 mg once daily. 2.4 ​Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis (JRA) Pauciarticular and Polyarticular Course For the treatment of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, the recommended oral dose of Meloxicam Tablets, USP is 7.5 mg once daily in children who weigh ≥60 kg. Meloxicam Tablets, USP should not be used in children who weigh <60 kg. 2.5 Renal Impairment The use of Meloxicam Tablets, USP in subjects with severe renal impairment is not recommended. In patients on hemodialysis, the maximum dosage of Meloxicam Tablets, USP is 7.5 mg per day [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 2.6 Non-Interchangeability with Other Formulations of Meloxicam Meloxicam Tablets, USP have not shown equivalent systemic exposure to other approved formulations of oral meloxicam. Therefore, Meloxicam Tablets, USP are not interchangeable with other formulations of oral meloxicam product even if the total milligram strength is the same. Do not substitute similar dose strengths of Meloxicam Tablets, USP with other formulations of oral meloxicam product.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Meloxicam is contraindicated in the following patients: Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to meloxicam or any components of the drug product [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.9 ) ] History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.8 ) ] In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ] Known hypersensitivity to meloxicam or any components of the drug product ( 4 ) History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs ( 4 ) In the setting of CABG surgery ( 4 ) 4. CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity (e.g., analphylactoid reactions and serious skin reactions) to meloxicam ( 4.1 ) History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs ( 4.1 ) Use during the peri-operative period in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Allergic Reactions Meloxicam tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity (e.g. anaphylactoid reactions and serious skin reactions) to meloxicam. Meloxicam tablets should not be given to patients who have experienced asthma, urticaria, or allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, rarely fatal, anaphylactic-like reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7 , 5.13 )]. 4.2 Coronary Surgery Meloxicam tablets are contraindicated for the treatment of peri-operative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Meloxicam is contraindicated in the following patients: Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to meloxicam or any components of the drug product [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.9)]. History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.8)]. In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Known hypersensitivity to meloxicam or any components of the drug product (4) History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs (4) In the setting of CABG surgery (4) CONTRAINDICATIONS Meloxicam is contraindicated in the following patients: Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to meloxicam or any components of the drug product [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.9 ) ] History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.8 ) ] In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ] Known hypersensitivity to meloxicam or any components of the drug product ( 4 ) History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs ( 4 ) In the setting of CABG surgery ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Meloxicam tablets are contraindicated in the following patients: Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to meloxicam or any components of the drug product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7 , 5.7) ] History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7 , 5.8) ] In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Known hypersensitivity to meloxicam or any components of the drug product ( 4 ) History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs ( 4 ) In the setting of CABG surgery ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to meloxicam or any components of the drug product ( 4 ) History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs ( 4 ) In the setting of CABG surgery ( 4 ) Meloxicam tablets are contraindicated in the following patients: Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to meloxicam or any components of the drug product [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.9 ) ] History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.8 ) ] In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ] CONTRAINDICATIONS Meloxicam tablets are contraindicated in the following patients: Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to meloxicam or any components of the drug product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7, 5.9)] History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7, 5.8)] In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Known hypersensitivity to meloxicam or any components of the drug product (4) History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs (4) In the setting of CABG surgery (4)
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See Table 3 for clinically significant drug interactions with meloxicam. See also Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.6 , 5.12 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) . Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: Meloxicam and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. The concomitant use of meloxicam and anticoagulants have an increased risk of serious bleeding compared to the use of either drug alone. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Case-control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of meloxicam with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )]. Aspirin Clinical Impact: Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Intervention: Concomitant use of meloxicam and low dose aspirin or analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )]. Meloxicam is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, or Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact: NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Intervention: During concomitant use of meloxicam and ACE inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. During concomitant use of meloxicam and ACE inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )]. When these drugs are administered concomitantly, patients should be adequately hydrated. Assess renal function at the beginning of the concomitant treatment and periodically thereafter. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. This effect has been attributed to the NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. However, studies with furosemide agents and meloxicam have not demonstrated a reduction in natriuretic effect. Furosemide single and multiple dose pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics are not affected by multiple doses of meloxicam. Intervention: During concomitant use of meloxicam with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )]. Lithium Clinical Impact: NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%, and the renal clearance decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: During concomitant use of meloxicam and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction). Intervention: During concomitant use of meloxicam and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of meloxicam and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of meloxicam and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of meloxicam with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Intervention: The concomitant use of meloxicam with other NSAIDs or salicylates is not recommended. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of meloxicam and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention: During concomitant use of meloxicam and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. Patients taking meloxicam should interrupt dosing for at least five days before, the day of, and two days following pemetrexed administration. In patients with creatinine clearance below 45 mL/min, the concomitant administration of meloxicam with pemetrexed is not recommended. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., warfarin, aspirin, SSRIs/SNRIs) : Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly taking meloxicam with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. Concomitant use of meloxicam and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended ( 7 ) ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) or Beta-Blockers : Concomitant use with meloxicam may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Monitor blood pressure ( 7 ) ACE Inhibitors and ARBs : Concomitant use with meloxicam in elderly, volume-depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function ( 7 ) Diuretics : NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. Monitor patients to assure diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects ( 7 ) 7. DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant use of meloxicam and warfarin may result in increased risk of bleeding complications ( 7.7 ) Concomitant use of meloxicam and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effect including increased GI bleeding ( 7.2 ) Concomitant use with meloxicam increases lithium plasma levels ( 7.4 ) Concomitant use with NSAIDs may reduce the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors ( 7.1 ) See also Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) . 7.1 ACE-inhibitors NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking meloxicam concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. 7.2 Aspirin When meloxicam is administered with aspirin (1000 mg three times daily) to healthy volunteers, an increase the AUC (10%) and C max (24%) of meloxicam was noted. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs concomitant administration of meloxicam and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential for increased adverse effects. Concomitant administration of low-dose aspirin with meloxicam may result in an increased rate of GI ulceration or other complications, compared to use of meloxicam alone. Meloxicam is not a substitute for aspirin for cardiovascular prophylaxis. 7.3 Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that NSAIDs can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Nevertheless, during concomitant therapy with meloxicam, patients should be observed closely for signs of renal failure [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ], as well as to ensure diuretic efficacy. 7.4 Lithium In a study conducted in healthy subjects, mean pre-dose lithium concentration and AUC were increased by 21% in subjects receiving lithium doses ranging from 804 to 1072 mg twice daily with meloxicam 15 mg every day as compared to subjects receiving lithium alone. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by meloxicam. Closely monitor patients on lithium treatment for signs of lithium toxicity when meloxicam is introduced, adjusted, or withdrawn. 7.5 Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Therefore, NSAIDs may reduce the elimination of methotrexate , thereby enhancing the toxicity of methotrexate. Use caution when meloxicam is administered concomitantly with methotrexate [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.6 Cyclosporine Meloxicam, like other NSAIDs, may affect renal prostaglandins, thereby altering the renal toxicity of certain drugs. Therefore, concomitant therapy with meloxicam may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Use caution when meloxicam is administered concomitantly with cyclosporine. 7.7 Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. Monitor anticoagulant activity, particularly in the first few days after initiating or changing meloxicam therapy in patients receiving warfarin or similar agents, since these patients are at an increased risk of bleeding than with the use of either drug alone. Use caution when administering meloxicam with warfarin since patients on warfarin may experience changes in INR and an increased risk of bleeding complications when a new medication is introduced [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. See also Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.6 , 5.11 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ). Table 3 Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Meloxicam Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: Meloxicam and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of meloxicam with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)]. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adversere actions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Intervention: Concomitant use of meloxicam and low dose aspirin or analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)]. In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, coadministration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. During concomitant use of meloxicam and ACE inhibitors or ARBs inpatients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6 )]. Intervention: During concomitant use of meloxicam with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of meloxicam and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine’s nephrotoxicity. NSAIDsandSalicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of meloxicam with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Intervention : During concomitant use of meloxicam and pemetrexed, inpatients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., warfarin, aspirin, SSRIs/SNRIs) : Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly taking meloxicam with drugs that interfere with hemostatsis. Concomitant use of meloxicam and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended (7) ACR Inhibiitors Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) or Beta-Blockers : Concomitant use with meloxicam may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Monitor blood pressure (7) ACE Inhibitors and ARBs : Concomitant use with meloxicam in elderly, volume-depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function (7) Diuretics : NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diurectics. Monitor patients to assure diurectic efficacy including antihypertensive effects (7) DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., warfarin, aspirin, SSRIs/SNRIs): Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly taking meloxicam with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. Concomitant use of meloxicam and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended ( 7 ) ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) or Beta-Blockers: Concomitant use with meloxicam may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Monitor blood pressure ( 7 ) ACE Inhibitors and ARBs: Concomitant use with meloxicam in elderly, volumedepleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function ( 7 ) Diuretics: NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. Monitor patients to assure diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects ( 7 ) See Table 3 for clinically significant drug interactions with meloxicam. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of meloxicam with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ) ]. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. Intervention: Concomitant use of meloxicam and low dose aspirin or analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ) ]. During concomitant use of meloxicam and ACE inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ] . Intervention: During concomitant use of meloxicam with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ]. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of meloxicam with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ] . DRUG INTERACTIONS See Table 3 for clinically significant drug interactions with meloxicam. See also Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.6 , 5.12) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) . Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of meloxicam with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Intervention: Concomitant use of meloxicam and low dose aspirin or analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. During concomitant use of meloxicam and ACE inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Intervention: During concomitant use of meloxicam with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of meloxicam with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., warfarin, aspirin, SSRIs/SNRIs) : Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly taking Meloxicam with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. Intervention: Concomitant use of Meloxicam and low dose aspirin or analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ) ]. See also Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.6, 5.12) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3). Concomitant use of meloxicam and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended (7) ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARBs) or Beta-Blockers : Concomitant use with meloxicam may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. In such high risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function (7) Diuretics : NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. Monitor patients to assure diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects (7) table 3 table 3.1 Table 3 Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Meloxicam Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact Meloxicam and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. Intervention Monitor patients with concomitant use of meloxicam with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ) ]. Aspirin Clinical Impact Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. Intervention Concomitant use of meloxicam and low dose aspirin or analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ) ]. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, or Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). These effects are usually reversible Intervention During concomitant use of meloxicam and ACE inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. During concomitant use of meloxicam and ACE inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. Diuretics Clinical Impact Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. Intervention During concomitant use of meloxicam with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ]. Lithium Clinical Impact NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance. Intervention During concomitant use of meloxicam and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Clinical Impact Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction). Intervention During concomitant use of meloxicam and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact Concomitant use of meloxicam and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine’s nephrotoxicity. Intervention During concomitant use of meloxicam and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact Concomitant use of meloxicam with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. Intervention The concomitant use of meloxicam with other NSAIDs or salicylates is not recommended. Premetrexed Clinical Impact Concomitant use of meloxicam and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention During concomitant use of meloxicam and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., warfarin, aspirin, SSRIs/SNRIs): Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly taking meloxicam with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. Monitor blood pressure ( 7 ) ACE Inhibitors and ARBs: Concomitant use with meloxicam in elderly, volume-depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function.

=== AMITRIPTYLINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the relief of symptoms of depression. Endogenous depression is more likely to be alleviated than are other depressive states.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Oral Dosage Dosage should be initiated at a low level and increased gradually, noting carefully the clinical response and any evidence of intolerance. Initial Dosage for Adults For outpatients, 75 mg of amitriptyline hydrochloride a day in divided doses is usually satisfactory. If necessary, this may be increased to a total of 150 mg per day. Increases are made preferably in the late afternoon and/or bedtime doses. A sedative effect may be apparent before the antidepressant effect is noted, but an adequate therapeutic effect may take as long as 30 days to develop. An alternate method of initiating therapy in outpatients is to begin with 50 to 100 mg amitriptyline hydrochloride at bedtime. This may be increased by 25 or 50 mg as necessary in the bedtime dose to a total of 150 mg per day. Hospitalized patients may require 100 mg a day initially. This can be increased gradually to 200 mg a day if necessary. A small number of hospitalized patients may need as much as 300 mg a day. Adolescent and Elderly Patients In general, lower dosages are recommended for these patients. Ten mg 3 times a day with 20 mg at bedtime may be satisfactory in adolescent and elderly patients who do not tolerate higher dosages. Maintenance The usual maintenance dosage of amitriptyline hydrochloride is 50 to 100 mg per day. In some patients, 40 mg per day is sufficient. For maintenance therapy, the total daily dosage may be given in a single dose, preferably at bedtime. When satisfactory improvement has been reached, dosage should be reduced to the lowest amount that will maintain relief of symptoms. It is appropriate to continue maintenance therapy 3 months or longer to lessen the possibility of relapse. Usage in Pediatric Patients In view of the lack of experience with the use of this drug in pediatric patients, it is not recommended at the present time for patients under 12 years of age. Plasma Levels Because of the wide variation in the absorption and distribution of tricyclic antidepressants in body fluids, it is difficult to directly correlate plasma levels and therapeutic effect. However, determination of plasma levels may be useful in identifying patients who appear to have toxic effects and may have excessively high levels, or those in whom lack of absorption or noncompliance is suspected. Because of increased intestinal transit time and decreased hepatic metabolism in elderly patients, plasma levels are generally higher for a given oral dose of amitriptyline hydrochloride than in younger patients. Elderly patients should be monitored carefully and quantitative serum levels obtained as clinically appropriate. Adjustments in dosage should be made according to the patient's clinical response and not on the basis of plasma levels. 2 2 Hollister, L.E.; Monitoring Tricyclic Antidepressant Plasma Concentrations. JAMA 1979; 241(23):2,530-2,533. JAMA 1979; 241(23):2530-2533. Initial Dosage for Adults For outpatients 75 mg of amitriptyline HCl a day in divided doses is usually satisfactory. An alternate method of initiating therapy in outpatients is to begin with 50 to 100 mg amitriptyline HCl at bedtime. Maintenance The usual maintenance dosage of amitriptyline HCl is 50 to 100 mg per day. In some patients 40 mg per day is sufficient. For maintenance therapy the total daily dosage may be given in a single dose preferably at bedtime. It is appropriate to continue maintenance therapy 3 months or longer, to lessen the possibility of relapse. Hollister, L.E.; Monitoring Tricyclic Antidepressant Plasma Concentrations. JAMA 1979; 241 (23):2530-2533. An alternate method of initiating therapy in outpatients is to begin with 50 mg to 100 mg amitriptyline hydrochloride at bedtime. Initial Dosage for Adults For outpatients, 75 mg of amitriptyline HCl a day in divided doses is usually satisfactory. Adjustments in dosage should be made according to the patient’s clinical response and not on the basis of plasma levels.
Warnings: WARNINGS Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Patients with major depressive disorder (MDD), both adult and pediatric, may experience worsening of their depression and/or the emergence of suicidal ideation and behavior (suicidality) or unusual changes in behavior, whether or not they are taking antidepressant medications, and this risk may persist until significant remission occurs. Suicide is a known risk of depression and certain other psychiatric disorders, and these disorders themselves are the strongest predictors of suicide. There has been a long-standing concern, however, that antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment. Pooled analyses of short-term placebo-controlled trials of antidepressant drugs (SSRIs and others) showed that these drugs increase the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents, and young adults (ages 18 to 24) with major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. Short-term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24; there was a reduction with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older. The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in children and adolescents with MDD, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 24 short-term trials of 9 antidepressant drugs in over 4,400 patients. The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in adults with MDD or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 295 short-term trials (median duration of 2 months) of 11 antidepressant drugs in over 77,000 patients. There was considerable variation in risk of suicidality among drugs, but a tendency toward an increase in the younger patients for almost all drugs studied. There were differences in absolute risk of suicidality across the different indications, with the highest incidence in MDD. The risk differences (drug vs. placebo), however, were relatively stable within age strata and across indications. These risk differences (drug-placebo difference in the number of cases of suicidality per 1,000 patients treated) are provided in Table 1. $NoTableFooter $FootNote $NoFootNote Age Range Drug - Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1 , 000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo <18 14 additional cases 18-24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25-64 1 fewer case ≥65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. There were suicides in the adult trials, but the number was not sufficient to reach any conclusion about drug effect on suicide. It is unknown whether the suicidality risk extends to longer term use, i.e., beyond several months. However, there is substantial evidence from placebo-controlled maintenance trials in adults with depression that the use of antidepressants can delay the recurrence of depression. All patients being treated with antidepressants for any indication should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening, suicidality, and unusual changes in behavior, especially during the initial few months of a course of drug therapy, or at times of dose changes, either increases or decreases. The following symptoms, anxiety, agitation, panic attacks, insomnia, irritability, hostility, aggressiveness, impulsivity, akathisia (psychomotor restlessness), hypomania, and mania, have been reported in adult and pediatric patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder as well as for other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric. Although a causal link between the emergence of such symptoms and either the worsening of depression and/or the emergence of suicidal impulses has not been established, there is concern that such symptoms may represent precursors to emerging suicidality. Consideration should be given to changing the therapeutic regimen, including possibly discontinuing the medication, in patients whose depression is persistently worse, or who are experiencing emergent suicidality or symptoms that might be precursors to worsening depression or suicidality, especially if these symptoms are severe, abrupt in onset, or were not part of the patient's presenting symptoms. Families and caregivers of patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder or other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric, should be alerted about the need to monitor patients for the emergence of agitation, irritability, unusual changes in behavior, and the other symptoms described above, as well as the emergence of suicidality, and to report such symptoms immediately to health care providers. Such monitoring should include daily observation by families and caregivers. Prescriptions for amitriptyline hydrochloride should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management, in order to reduce the risk of overdose. Screening Patients for Bipolar Disorder A major depressive episode may be the initial presentation of bipolar disorder. It is generally believed (though not established in controlled trials) that treating such an episode with an antidepressant alone may increase the likelihood of precipitation of a mixed/manic episode in patients at risk for bipolar disorder. Whether any of the symptoms described above represent such a conversion is unknown. However, prior to initiating treatment with an antidepressant, patients with depressive symptoms should be adequately screened to determine if they are at risk for bipolar disorder; such screening should include a detailed psychiatric history, including a family history of suicide, bipolar disorder, and depression. It should be noted that amitriptyline hydrochloride is not approved for use in treating bipolar depression. Amitriptyline hydrochloride may block the antihypertensive action of guanethidine or similarly acting compounds. It should be used with caution in patients with a history of seizures and, because of its atropine-like action, in patients with a history of urinary retention or angle-closure glaucoma. In patients with angle-closure glaucoma, even average doses may precipitate an attack. Patients with cardiovascular disorders should be watched closely. Tricyclic antidepressant drugs, including amitriptyline hydrochloride, particularly when given in high doses, have been reported to produce arrhythmias, sinus tachycardia, and prolongation of the conduction time. Myocardial infarction and stroke have been reported with drugs of this class. Close supervision is required when amitriptyline hydrochloride is given to hyperthyroid patients or those receiving thyroid medication. Amitriptyline may enhance the response to alcohol and the effects of barbiturates and other CNS depressants. In patients who may use alcohol excessively, it should be borne in mind that the potentiation may increase the danger inherent in any suicide attempt or overdosage. Delirium has been reported with concurrent administration of amitriptyline and disulfiram. Angle-Closure Glaucoma The pupillary dilation that occurs following use of many antidepressant drugs including amitriptyline hydrochloride may trigger an angle closure attack in a patient with anatomically narrow angles who does not have a patent iridectomy. Usage in Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Teratogenic effects were not observed in mice, rats, or rabbits when amitriptyline was given orally at doses of 2 to 40 mg/kg/day (up to 13 times the maximum recommended human dose 1 ). Studies in literature have shown amitriptyline to be teratogenic in mice and hamsters when given by various routes of administration at doses of 28 to 100 mg/kg/day (9 to 33 times the maximum recommended human dose), producing multiple malformations. Another study in the rat reported that an oral dose of 25 mg/kg/day (8 times the maximum recommended human dose) produced delays in ossification of fetal vertebral bodies without other signs of embryotoxicity. In rabbits, an oral dose of 60 mg/kg/day (20 times the maximum recommended human dose) was reported to cause incomplete ossification of cranial bones. Amitriptyline has been shown to cross the placenta. Although a causal relationship has not been established, there have been a few reports of adverse events, including CNS effects, limb deformities, or developmental delay, in infants whose mothers had taken amitriptyline during pregnancy. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Amitriptyline hydrochloride should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the fetus. 1 Based on a maximum recommended amitriptyline dose of 150 mg/day or 3 mg/kg/day for a 50 kg patient. Nursing Mothers Amitriptyline is excreted into breast milk. In one report in which a patient received amitriptyline 100 mg/day while nursing her infant, levels of 83 to 141 ng/mL were detected in the mother's serum. Levels of 135 to 151 ng/mL were found in the breast milk, but no trace of the drug could be detected in the infant's serum. Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from amitriptyline, a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother. Usage in Pediatric Patients In view of the lack of experience with the use of this drug in pediatric patients, it is not recommended at the present time for patients under 12 years of age. These risk differences (drug-placebo difference in the number of cases of suicidality per 1000 patients treated) are provided in Table 1. Table 1 Age Range Drug-Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo <18 14 additional cases 18-24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25-64 1 fewer case ≥65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. It is unknown whether the suicidality risk extends to longer-term use, i.e., beyond several months. Prescriptions for amitriptyline hydrochloride tablets should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management, in order to reduce the risk of overdose. In patients with angle closure glaucoma, even average doses may precipitate an attack. Amitriptyline hydrochloride may enhance the response to alcohol and the effects of barbiturates and other CNS depressants. Usage in Pregnancy Teratogenic effects were not observed in mice, rats, or rabbits when amitriptyline was given orally at doses of 2 to 40 mg/kg/day (up to 13 times the maximum recommended human dose 1 ). The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in children and adolescents with MDD, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 24 short-term trials of 9 antidepressant drugs in over 4400 patients. The risk differences (drug vs placebo), however, were relatively stable within age strata and across indications. Table 1 Age Range Drug-Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo <18 14 additional cases 18–24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25–64 1 fewer case ≥65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. Serotonin Syndrome The development of a potentially life-threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with tricyclic antidepressants, including amitriptyline hydrochloride, alone but particularly with concomitant use of other serotonergic drugs (including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, SSRI/SNRI, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone, and St. John’s Wort) and with drugs that impair metabolism of serotonin (in particular, MAOIs, both those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular changes (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). Patients should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. The concomitant use of amitriptyline hydrochloride with MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders is contraindicated. Amitriptyline hydrochloride should also not be started in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. All reports with methylene blue that provided information on the route of administration involved intravenous administration in the dose range of 1 mg/kg to 8 mg/kg. No reports involved the administration of methylene blue by other routes (such as oral tablets or local tissue injection) or at lower doses. There may be circumstances when it is necessary to initiate treatment with an MAOI such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue in a patient taking amitriptyline hydrochloride. Amitriptyline hydrochloride should be discontinued before initiating treatment with the MAOI (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). If concomitant use of amitriptyline hydrochloride with other serotonergic drugs, including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, buspirone, tryptophan, and St. John’s Wort is clinically warranted, patients should be made aware of a potential increased risk for serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Treatment with amitriptyline hydrochloride and any concomitant serotonergic agents should be discontinued immediately if the above events occur and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated. It should be used with caution in patients with a history of seizures and, because of its atropine-like action, in patients with a history of urinary retention, angle-closure glaucoma or increased intraocular pressure. Hyponatremia Hyponatremia has occurred as a result of treatment with amitriptyline hydrochloride. In many cases, hyponatremia appears to be the result of the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Signs and symptoms of hyponatremia include headache, difficulty concentrating, memory impairment, confusion, weakness, and unsteadiness, which may lead to falls. Signs and symptoms associated with more severe and/or acute cases have included syncope, seizure, coma, respiratory arrest, and death. In patients with symptomatic hyponatremia, discontinue amitriptyline hydrochloride and institute appropriate medical intervention. Elderly patients, patients taking diuretics, and those who are volume-depleted may be at greater risk of developing hyponatremia with amitriptyline hydrochloride. Angle-Closure Glaucoma The pupillary dilation that occurs following use of many antidepressant drugs including amitriptyline hydrochloride may trigger an angle-closure attack in a patient with anatomically narrow angles who does not have a patent iridectomy. Usage in Pregnancy Teratogenic effects were not observed in mice, rats, or rabbits when amitriptyline was given orally at doses of 2 to 40 mg/kg/day (up to 13 times the maximum recommended human dose Based on a maximum recommended amitriptyline dose of 150 mg/day or 3 mg/kg/day for a 50 kg patient. ). In rabbits, an oral dose of 60 mg/kg/day (20 times the maximum recommended human dose) was reported to cause incomplete ossification of the cranial bones. Table 1 Age Range Drug-Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality Per 1,000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo < 18 14 additional cases 18 to 24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25 to 64 1 fewer case ≥65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. All patients being treated with antidepressants for any indication should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening, suicidality and unusual changes in behavior, especially during the initial few months of a course of drug therapy, or at times of dose changes, either increases or decreases. The following symptoms, anxiety, agitation, panic attacks, insomnia, irritability, hostility, aggressiveness, impulsivity, akathisia (psychomotor restlessness), hypomania, and mania, have been reported in adult and pediatric patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder as well as for other indications, both psychiatric and non-psychiatric. Families and caregivers of patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder or other indications, both psychiatric and non-psychiatric, should be alerted about the need to monitor patients for the emergence of agitation, irritability, unusual changes in behavior, and the other symptoms described above, as well as the emergence of suicidality, and to report such symptoms immediately to healthcare providers. John's Wort) and with drugs that impair metabolism of serotonin (in particular, MAOIs, both those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). John's Wort is clinically warranted, patients should be made aware of a potential increased risk for serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Hyponatremia Hyponatremia has occurred as a result of treatment with amitriptyline hydrochloride tablets. In patients with symptomatic hyponatremia, discontinue amitriptyline hydrochloride tablets and institute appropriate medical intervention. Elderly patients, patients taking diuretics, and those who are volume-depleted may be at greater risk of developing hyponatremia with amitriptyline hydrochloride tablets. Studies in the literature have shown amitriptyline to be teratogenic in mice and hamsters when given by various routes of administration at doses of 28 to 100 mg/kg/day (9 to 33 times the maximum recommended human dose), producing multiple malformations. In one report in which a patient received amitriptyline 100 mg/day while nursing her infant, levels of 83 to 141 ng/mL were detected in mother's serum. Table 1 Age Range Drug-Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo <18 14 additional cases 18 to 24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25 to 64 1 fewer case ≥65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. Consideration should be given to changing the therapeutic regimen, including possibly discontinuing the medication, in patients whose depression is persistently worse, or who are experiencing emergent suicidality or symptoms that might be precursors to worsening depression or suicidality, especially if these symptoms are severe, abrupt in onset, or were not part of the patient’s presenting symptoms. Usage in Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Teratogenic effects were not observed in mice, rats, or rabbits when amitriptyline was given orally at doses of 2 to 40 mg/kg/day (up to 13 times the maximum recommended human dose Based on a maximum recommended amitriptyline dose of 150 mg/day or 3 mg/kg/day for a 50 kg patient. In one report in which a patient received amitriptyline 100 mg/day while nursing her infant, levels of 83 to 141 ng/mL were detected in the mother’s serum. Levels of 135 to 151 ng/mL were found in the breast milk, but no trace of the drug could be detected in the infant’s serum. Table 1 Age Range Drug-Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1,000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo <18 14 additional cases 18 to 24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25 to 64 1 fewer case ≥65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. It is unknown whether the suicidality risk extends to longerterm use, i.e., beyond several months. Serotonin Syndrome: The development of a potentially life-threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with tricyclic antidepressants, including amitriptyline hydrochloride tablets, alone but particularly with concomitant use of other serotonergic drugs (including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, SSRI/SNRI, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone, and St. The concomitant use of amitriptyline hydrochloride tablets with MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders is contraindicated. Amitriptyline hydrochloride tablets should also not be started in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. There may be circumstances when it is necessary to initiate treatment with an MAOI such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue in a patient taking amitriptyline hydrochloride tablets. Amitriptyline hydrochloride tablets should be discontinued before initiating treatment with the MAOI (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). If concomitant use of amitriptyline hydrochloride tablets with other serotonergic drugs, including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, buspirone, tryptophan, and St. Treatment with amitriptyline hydrochloride tablets and any concomitant serotonergic agents should be discontinued immediately if the above events occur and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated. It should be noted that amitriptyline hydrochloride tablets are not approved for use in treating bipolar depression. Amitriptyline hydrochloride tablets may block the antihypertensive action of guanethidine or similarly acting compounds. Tricyclic antidepressant drugs, including amitriptyline hydrochloride tablets, particularly when given in high doses, have been reported to produce arrhythmias, sinus tachycardia, and prolongation of the conduction time. Close supervision is required when amitriptyline hydrochloride tablets are given to hyperthyroid patients or those receiving thyroid medication. Amitriptyline hydrochloride tablets may enhance the response to alcohol and the effects of barbiturates and other CNS depressants. Delirium has been reported with concurrent administration of amitriptyline hydrochloride tablets and disulfiram. Angle-Closure Glaucoma The pupillary dilation that occurs following use of many antidepressant drugs including amitriptyline hydrochloride tablets may trigger an angle closure attack in a patient with anatomically narrow angles who does not have a patent iridectomy. Nursing Mothers Amitriptyline hydrochloride is excreted into breast milk. In one report in which a patient received amitriptyline hydrochloride tablet 100 mg/day while nursing her infant, levels of 83 to 141 ng/mL were detected in the mother's serum. Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from amitriptyline hydrochloride tablets, a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother. These risk differences (drug-placebo difference in the number of cases of suicidality per 1000 patients treated) are provided in Table 1 . Signs and symptoms of hyponatremia include headache, difficulty concentrating memory impairment, confusion, weakness, and unsteadiness, which may lead to falls. Usage in Pregnancy Pregnancy Teratogenic effects were not observed in mice, rats, or rabbits when amitriptyline was given orally at doses of 2 to 40 mg/kg/day (up to 13 times the maximum recommended human dose Based on a maximum recommended amitriptyline dose of 150 mg/day or 3 mg/kg/day for a 50 kg patient.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Amitriptyline hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients who have shown prior hypersensitivity to it. It should not be given concomitantly with monoamine oxidase inhibitors. Hyperpyretic crises, severe convulsions, and deaths have occurred in patients receiving tricyclic antidepressant and monoamine oxidase inhibiting drugs simultaneously. When it is desired to replace a monoamine oxidase inhibitor with amitriptyline hydrochloride, a minimum of 14 days should be allowed to elapse after the former is discontinued. Amitriptyline hydrochloride should then be initiated cautiously with gradual increase in dosage until optimum response is achieved. Amitriptyline hydrochloride should not be given with cisapride due to the potential for increased QT interval and increased risk for arrhythmia. This drug is not recommended for use during the acute recovery phase following myocardial infarction.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Topiramate Some patients may experience a large increase in amitriptyline concentration in the presence of topiramate and any adjustments in amitriptyline dose should be made according to the patient's clinical response and not on the basis of plasma levels. Drugs Metabolized by P450 2D6 The biochemical activity of the drug metabolizing isozyme cytochrome P450 2D6 (debrisoquin hydroxylase) is reduced in a subset of the caucasian population (about 7 to 10% of Caucasians are so called "poor metabolizers"); reliable estimates of the prevalence of reduced P450 2D6 isozyme activity among Asian, African and other populations are not yet available. Poor metabolizers have higher than expected plasma concentrations of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) when given usual doses. Depending on the fraction of drug metabolized by P450 2D6, the increase in plasma concentration may be small, or quite large (8 fold increase in plasma AUC of the TCA). In addition, certain drugs inhibit the activity of this isozyme and make normal metabolizers resemble poor metabolizers. An individual who is stable on a given dose of TCA may become abruptly toxic when given one of these inhibiting drugs as concomitant therapy. The drugs that inhibit cytochrome P450 2D6 include some that are not metabolized by the enzyme (quinidine; cimetidine) and many that are substrates for P450 2D6 (many other antidepressants, phenothiazines, and the Type 1C antiarrhythmics propafenone and flecainide). While all the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), e.g., fluoxetine, sertraline, and paroxetine, inhibit P450 2D6, they may vary in the extent of inhibition. The extent to which SSRITCA interactions may pose clinical problems will depend on the degree of inhibition and the pharmacokinetics of the SSRI involved. Nevertheless, caution is indicated in the coadministration of TCAs with any of the SSRIs and also in switching from one class to the other. Of particular importance, sufficient time must elapse before initiating TCA treatment in a patient being withdrawn from fluoxetine, given the long half-life of the parent and active metabolite (at least 5 weeks may be necessary). Concomitant use of tricyclic antidepressants with drugs that can inhibit cytochrome P450 2D6 may require lower doses than usually prescribed for either the tricyclic antidepressant or the other drug. Furthermore, whenever one of these other drugs is withdrawn from co-therapy, an increased dose of tricyclic antidepressant may be required. It is desirable to monitor TCA plasma levels whenever a TCA is going to be coadministered with another drug known to be an inhibitor of P450 2D6. Monoamine oxidase inhibitors – see CONTRAINDICATIONS section. Guanethidine or similarly acting compounds; thyroid medication; alcohol, barbiturates and other CNS depressants; and disulfiram – see WARNINGS section. When amitriptyline is given with anticholinergic agents or sympathomimetic drugs, including epinephrine combined with local anesthetics, close supervision and careful adjustment of dosages are required. Hyperpyrexia has been reported when amitriptyline is administered with anticholinergic agents or with neuroleptic drugs, particularly during hot weather. Paralytic ileus may occur in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants in combination with anticholinergic-type drugs. Cimetidine is reported to reduce hepatic metabolism of certain tricyclic antidepressants, thereby delaying elimination and increasing steady-state concentrations of these drugs. Clinically significant effects have been reported with the tricyclic antidepressants when used concomitantly with cimetidine. Increases in plasma levels of tricyclic antidepressants, and in the frequency and severity of side effects, particularly anticholinergic, have been reported when cimetidine was added to the drug regimen. Discontinuation of cimetidine in well controlled patients receiving tricyclic antidepressants and cimetidine may decrease the plasma levels and efficacy of the antidepressants. Caution is advised if patients receive large doses of ethchlorvynol concurrently. Transient delirium has been reported in patients who were treated with one gram of ethchlorvynol and 75 to 150 mg of amitriptyline hydrochloride. While all the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), e.g.,fluoxetine, sertraline, and paroxetine, inhibit P450 2D6, they may vary in the extent of inhibition. The extent to which SSRI-TCA interactions may pose clinical problems will depend on the degree of inhibition and the pharmacokinetics of the SSRI involved. When amitriptyline hydrochloride is given with anticholinergic agents or sympathomimetic drugs, including epinephrine combined with local anesthetics, close supervision and careful adjustment of dosages are required. Hyperpyrexia has been reported when amitriptyline hydrochloride is administered with anticholinergic agents or with neuroleptic drugs, particularly during hot weather. Paralytic ileus may occur in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants in combination with anticholinergic type drugs. Discontinuation of cimetidine in well-controlled patients receiving tricyclic antidepressants and cimetidine may decrease the plasma levels and efficacy of the antidepressants. Drugs Metabolized by P450 2D6 The biochemical activity of the drug metabolizing isozyme cytochrome P450 2D6 (debrisoquin hydroxylase) is reduced in a subset of the caucasian population (about 7 to 10% of Caucasians are so called "poor metabolizers"), reliable estimates of the prevalence of reduced P450 2D6 isozyme activity among Asian, African and other populations are not yet available. Drugs Metabolized by P450 2D6 The biochemical activity of the drug metabolizing isozyme cytochrome P450 2D6 (debrisoquin hydroxylase) is reduced in a subset of the Caucasian population (about 7% to 10% of Caucasians are so called "poor metabolizers"); reliable estimates of the prevalence of reduced P450 2D6 isozyme activity among Asian, African and other populations are not yet available. Depending on the fraction of drug metabolized by P450 2D6, the increase in plasma concentration may be small, or quite large (8-fold increase in plasma AUC of the TCA). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors see CONTRAINDICATIONS section. Increases in plasma levels of tricyclic antidepressants and in the frequency and severity of side effects, particularly anticholinergic, have been reported when cimetidine was added to the drug regimen. Transient delirium has been reported in patients who were treated with one gram of ethchlorvynol and 75 mg to 150 mg of amitriptyline hydrochloride. Drugs Metabolized by P450 2D6 The biochemical activity of the drug metabolizing isozyme cytochrome P450 2D6 (debrisoquin hydroxylase) is reduced in a subset of the caucasian population (about 7 to 10% of Caucasians are so called “poor metabolizers”); reliable estimates of the prevalence of reduced P450 2D6 isozyme activity among Asian, African and other populations are not yet available. DRUG INTERACTIONS Topiramate Some patients may experience a large increase in amitriptyline hydrochloride concentration in the presence of topiramate and any adjustments in amitriptyline hydrochloride dose should be made according to the patient's clinical response and not on the basis of plasma levels. Discontinuation of cimetidine in well- controlled patients receiving tricyclic antidepressants and cimetidine may decrease the plasma levels and efficacy of the antidepressants. Geriatric Use Clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients. In general, dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic function, concomitant disease and other drug therapy in elderly patients. Geriatric patients are particularly sensitive to the anticholinergic side effects of tricyclic antidepressants including amitriptyline hydrochloride. Peripheral anticholinergic effects include tachycardia, urinary retention, constipation, dry mouth, blurred vision, and exacerbation of narrow-angle glaucoma. Central nervous system anticholinergic effects include cognitive impairment, psychomotor slowing, confusion, sedation, and delirium. Elderly patients taking amitriptyline hydrochloride may be at increased risk for falls. Elderly patients should be started on low doses of amitriptyline hydrochloride and observed closely (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population have not been established (see BOX WARNING and WARNINGS : Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk ). Anyone considering the use of amitriptyline hydrochloride in a child or adolescent must balance the potential risks with the clinical need. Drug Interactions Topiramate Some patients may experience a large increase in amitriptyline concentration in the presence of topiramate and any adjustments in amitriptyline dose should be made according to the patient’s clinical response and not on the basis of plasma levels.

=== BISACODYL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Uses -for relief of occasional constipation -this product generally produces bowel movement in 1/4 to 1 hour Purpose Stimulant laxative Purpose Laxative Drug facts Purpose Bisacodyl 10 mg ................................. Stimulant Laxative
Indications: Directions -detach one suppository from the strip -remove wrapper before inserting into the rectum adults and children 12 years of age and older 1 suppository once daily children 6 to under 12 years 1/2 suppository once daily children under 6 years do not use Use for relief of occasional constipation and irregularity this product generally produces bowel movement in 15 minutes to 1 hour Uses for relief of occasional constipation and irregularity this product generally produces bowel movement in 6 to 12 hours Uses for temporary relief of occasional constipation and irregularity this product generally produces bowel movement in 6 to 12 hours Use for temporary relief of occasional constipation and irregularity this product generally produces a bowel movement in 6 to 12 hours Uses relieves occasional constipation and irregularity generally produces a bowel movement in 6 to 12 hours Use for relief of occasional constipation (irregularity) this product generally produces bowel movement in 15 minutes to 1 hour Uses ■ for relief of occasional constipation ■ this product generally produces bowel movement in 15 to 60 minutes Use for relief of occasional constipation (irregularity) this product generally produces a bowel movement in 6 to 12 hours
Dosage: Directions -detach one suppository from the strip -remove wrapper before inserting into the rectum adults and children 12 years of age and older 1 suppository once daily children 6 to under 12 years 1/2 suppository once daily children under 6 years do not use Directions Peel open plastic. Insert suppository into rectum, pointed end first. Retain about 15 to 20 minutes. adults and children 12 years of age and over 1 suppository in a single daily dose. children 6 to under 12 years of age ½ suppository in a single daily dose children under 6 years of age ask a doctor Directions take with a glass of water do not take more than directed adults and children 12 years and older: take 1 to 3 tablets in a single daily dose children 12 and under: ask a doctor Directions take with a glass of water adults and children 12 years of age and over take 1 to 3 tablets in a single daily dose children 6 to under 12 years of age take 1 tablet in a single daily dose children under 6 years of age ask a doctor Directions take with a glass of water adults and children 12 years of age and over 1 to 3 tablets in a single daily dose children 6 to under 12 years of age 1 tablet in a single daily dose children under 6 years of age ask a doctor Directions • do not take more than directed • swallow whole, do not chew or crush • take recommended dose in a single daily dose • take with water • adults and children 12 years and older: take 1-3 (usually 2) tablets daily • children 12 and under: ask a doctor Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over 1 suppository in a single daily dose. Peel open plastic. Insert suppository well into rectum, pointed end first. Retain about 15 to 20 minutes children 6 to under 12 years 1/2 suppository in a single daily dose children under 6 years Do not use Directions ■ detach one suppository from the strip ■ remove wrapper before inserting into the rectum adults and children 12 and over : 1 suppository once daily children 6 to under 12 years : ½ suppository once daily children under 6 years : do not use Directions each laxative works differently. Adults and children over 12 may need fewer tablets to get the same effect as more tablets of another brand. start with one tablet and take with water. If one tablet does not produce the desired results, then try two or three tablets daily. do not take more than three tablets daily adults and children 12 years of age and older take 1 to 3 tablets in a single dose once daily children 6 to under 12 year of age take 1 tablets once daily children under 6 years of age ask a doctor Directions do not take more than directed take with a glass of water adults and children 12 years and over take 1 to 3 tablets in a single daily dose children 6 to under 12 years take 1 tablet in a single daily dose children under 6 years ask a doctor
Warnings: Warnings For rectal use only. Warnings For rectal use only Ask a doctor before use if you have stomach pain, nausea or vomiting noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts more than 2 weeks When using this product it may cause stomach discomfort, faintness, rectal burning and mild cramps Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or fail to have a bowel movement after using this product. These could be signs of a serious condition. you need to use a laxative for more than 1 week If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Do not use if you cannot swallow without chewing Ask a doctor before use if you have • stomach pain, nausea, vomiting • noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts more than 2 weeks When using this product • do not chew or crush tablet(s) • do not use within 1 hour after taking an antacid or milk • it may cause stomach discomfort, faintness and cramps Stop use and ask a doctor if • you have rectal bleeding or no bowel movement after using this product. • you need to use a laxative for more than 1 week If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Do not use if you cannot swallow without chewing Ask a doctor before use if you have stomach pain, nausea or vomiting a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts more than 2 weeks When using this product do not chew or crush tablet(s) do not use within 1 hour after taking an antacid or milk it may cause stomach discomfort, faintness, and cramps Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or fail to have a bowel movement after using this product. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings Do not use if you cannot swallow without chewing. Ask a doctor before use if you have stomach pain, nausea or vomiting a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts more than 2 weeks When using this product do not chew or crush tablet(s) do not use within 1 hour after taking an antacid or milk it may cause stomach discomfort, faintness and cramps Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or no bowel movement after using this product. you need to use a laxative for more than 1 week If pregnancy or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at (1-800-222-1222). Warnings Do not use • for more than one week unless directed by a doctor • if you cannot swallow without chewing • within 1 hour after taking an antacid or milk Ask a doctor before use if you have • abdominal pain • nausea • vomiting • a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts longer than 2 weeks When using this product • abdominal discomfort, faintness, or cramps may occur Stop use and ask a doctor • if you have no bowel movement within 12 hours • if you have rectal bleeding • these could be signs of a serious condition If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Warnings For rectal use only Warnings ■ For rectal use only Warnings Do not use for children under 6 years of age. Ask a doctor before use if you have abdominal pain nausea vomiting a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts more than 2 weeks When using this product do not chew or crush tablet do not use within 1 hour after taking an antacid or milk abdominal discomfort, faintness and cramps may occur Stop use and ask a doctor if you need to use a laxative for more than 1 week rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use of laxative. If pregnancy or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Ask a doctor before use if you have stomach pain, nausea or vomiting a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts more than 2 weeks When using this product do not use within 1 hour after taking an antacid or milk do not chew or crush tablet(s) it may cause stomach discomfort, faintness, and cramps Stop use and ask a doctor if you need to use a laxative for more than 1 week you have rectal bleeding or fail to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use.

=== DILTIAZEM HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Diltiazem hydrochloride extended-release capsules are indicated for the treatment of hypertension. It may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive medications. Diltiazem hydrochloride extended-release capsules are indicated for the management of chronic stable angina and angina due to coronary artery spasm. Diltiazem hydrochloride may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive medications, such as diuretics. Diltiazem hydrochloride extended-release capsules are indicated for the management of chronic stable angina. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Diltiazem hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the management of chronic stable angina and angina due to coronary artery spasm. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Diltiazem hydrochloride extended-release capsules, USP is indicated for the treatment of hypertension. Diltiazem hydrochloride extended-release capsules, USP is indicated for the management of chronic stable angina and angina due to coronary artery spasm. INDICATIONS AND USAGE CARDIZEM CD is indicated for the treatment of hypertension. CARDIZEM CD is indicated for the management of chronic stable angina and angina due to coronary artery spasm. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypertension: Tiadylt ® ER capsules are indicated for the treatment of hypertension. Chronic Stable Angina: Tiadylt ® ER capsules are indicated for the treatment of chronic stable angina.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Patients controlled on diltiazem alone or in combination with other medications may be switched to diltiazem hydrochloride extended-release capsules, USP at the nearest equivalent total daily dose. Higher doses of diltiazem hydrochloride extended-release capsules, USP may be needed in some patients. Monitor patients closely. Subsequent titration to higher or lower doses may be necessary. There is limited general clinical experience with doses above 360 mg, but doses to 540 mg have been studied in clinical trials. The incidence of side effects increases as the dose increases with first-degree AV block, dizziness, and sinus bradycardia bearing the strongest relationship to dose. Hypertension : Adjust dosage to individual patient needs. When used as monotherapy, reasonable starting doses are 180 to 240 mg once daily, although some patients may respond to lower doses. Maximum antihypertensive effect is usually observed by 14 days of chronic therapy; therefore, schedule dosage adjustments accordingly. The usual dosage range studied in clinical trials was 240 to 360 mg once daily. Individual patients may respond to higher doses of up to 480 mg once daily. Angina : Dosages for the treatment of angina should be adjusted to each patient's needs, starting with a dose of 120 or 180 mg once daily. When necessary, titration may be carried out over a 7- to 14-day period. Concomitant Use with Other Cardiovascular Agents Sublingual NTG : May be taken as required to abort acute anginal attacks during diltiazem hydrochloride therapy. P r ophylactic Nitrate Therapy : Diltiazem hydrochloride extended-release capsules, USP may be safely coadministered with short- and long-acting nitrates. Beta-blockers : (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ). Antihypertensives : Diltiazem hydrochloride extended-release capsules, USP have an additive antihypertensive effect when used with other antihypertensive agents. Therefore, the dosage of diltiazem hydrochloride extended-release capsules, USP or the concomitant antihypertensives may need to be adjusted when adding one to the other. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertensive or anginal patients who are treated with other formulations of diltiazem can safely be switched to diltiazem hydrochloride extended-release capsules at the nearest equivalent total daily dose. Subsequent titration to higher or lower doses may, however, be necessary and should be initiated as clinically indicated. Studies have shown a slight increase in the rate of absorption of diltiazem hydrochloride extended-release capsules when ingested with a high-fat breakfast; therefore, administration in the morning on an empty stomach is recommended. Patients should be cautioned that the diltiazem hydrochloride extended-release capsules should not be opened, chewed or crushed, and should be swallowed whole. Dosage Hypertension Dosages must be adjusted to each patient’s needs, starting with 180 mg or 240 mg once daily. Based on the antihypertensive effect, the dose may be adjusted as needed. Individual patients, particularly ≥60 years of age, may respond to a lower dose of 120 mg. The usual dosage range studied in clinical trials was 180 mg to 480 mg once daily. Current clinical experience with the 540 mg dose is limited; the dose may be increased to 540 mg with little or no increased risk of adverse reactions. Doses should not exceed 540 mg once daily. While a dose of diltiazem hydrochloride extended-release capsules given once daily may produce an antihypertensive effect similar to the same total daily dose given in divided doses, individual dose adjustment may be needed. Dosage Angina Dosages for the treatment of angina should be adjusted to each patient’s needs, starting with a dose of 120 mg once daily, which may be titrated to doses of up to 480 mg once daily. When necessary, titration may be carried out over a 7 to 14 day period. Concomitant Use with Other Cardiovascular Agents Sublingual Nitroglycerin may be taken as required to abort acute anginal attacks during diltiazem hydrochloride therapy. Prophylactic Nitrate Therapy – Diltiazem hydrochloride may be safely co-administered with short- and long-acting nitrates. Beta-blockers. (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .) Antihypertensives – Diltiazem hydrochloride has an additive antihypertensive effect when used with other antihypertensive agents. Therefore, the dosage of diltiazem hydrochloride or the concomitant antihypertensives may need to be adjusted when adding one to the other. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Patients controlled on diltiazem alone or in combination with other medications may be switched to Diltiazem Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules at the nearest equivalent total daily dose. Higher doses of Diltiazem Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules may be needed in some patients. Hypertension: Adjust dosage to individual patient needs. Angina: Dosages for the treatment of angina should be adjusted to each patient’s needs, starting with a dose of 120 or 180 mg once daily. Concomitant Use with Other Cardiovascular Agents: Sublingual NTG: May be taken as required to abort acute anginal attacks during diltiazem hydrochloride therapy. Prophylactic Nitrate Therapy: Diltiazem hydrochloride may be safely coadministered with short- and long-acting nitrates. Beta-blockers: (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ). Antihypertensives: Diltiazem hydrochloride has an additive antihypertensive effect when used with other antihypertensive agents. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Exertional Angina Pectoris Due to Atherosclerotic Coronary Artery Disease or Angina Pectoris at Rest Due to Coronary Artery Spasm: Dosage must be adjusted to each patient’s needs. Starting with 30 mg four times daily, before meals and at bedtime, dosage should be increased gradually (given in divided doses three or four times daily) at 1- to 2-day intervals until optimum response is obtained. Although individual patients may respond to any dosage level, the average optimum dosage range appears to be 180 mg/day to 360 mg/day. There are no available data concerning dosage requirements in patients with impaired renal or hepatic function. If the drug must be used in such patients, titration should be carried out with particular caution. Concomitant Use with Other Cardiovascular Agents Sublingual NTG may be taken as required to abort acute anginal attacks during diltiazem hydrochloride therapy. Prophylactic Nitrate Therapy. Diltiazem hydrochloride may be safely coadministered with short- and long-acting nitrates, but there have been no controlled studies to evaluate the antianginal effectiveness of this combination. (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .) 30 mg – Diltiazem Hydrochloride tablets may be swallowed whole, crushed, or chewed. Do not split Diltiazem Hydrochloride tablets. 60 mg, 90 mg, and 120 mg – Diltiazem Hydrochloride tablets may be swallowed whole, crushed, or chewed. Angina: Dosages for the treatment of angina should be adjusted to each patient's needs, starting with a dose of 120 or 180 mg once daily. Concomitant Use with Other Cardiovascular Agents Sublingual NTG: May be taken as required to abort acute anginal attacks during diltiazem hydrochloride extended-release capsules therapy. Prophylactic Nitrate Therapy: Diltiazem hydrochloride extended-release capsules may be safely coadministered with short- and long-acting nitrates. Antihypertensives: Diltiazem hydrochloride extended-release capsules have an additive antihypertensive effect when used with other antihypertensive agents. Therefore, the dosage of diltiazem hydrochloride extended-release capsules or the concomitant antihypertensives may need to be adjusted when adding one to the other. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Patients controlled on diltiazem alone or in combination with other medications may be switched to CARDIZEM CD capsules at the nearest equivalent total daily dose. Higher doses of CARDIZEM CD may be needed in some patients. Concomitant Use with Other Cardiovascular Agents : Sublingual NTG : May be taken as required to abort acute anginal attacks during diltiazem hydrochloride therapy. Prophylactic Nitrate Therapy : Diltiazem hydrochloride may be safely coadministered with short- and long-acting nitrates. Beta-blockers : (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .) Antihypertensives: Diltiazem hydrochloride has an additive antihypertensive effect when used with other antihypertensive agents. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension: Dosage needs to be adjusted by titration to individual patient needs. When used as monotherapy, usual starting doses are 120 to 240 mg once daily. Maximum antihypertensive effect is usually observed by 14 days of chronic therapy; therefore, dosage adjustments should be scheduled accordingly. The usual dosage range studied in clinical trials was 120 to 540 mg once daily. Current clinical experience with 540 mg dose is limited; however, the dose may be increased to 540 mg once daily. Angina: Dosages for the treatment of angina should be adjusted to each patient's needs, starting with a dose of 120 mg to 180 mg once daily. Individual patients may respond to higher doses of up to 540 mg once daily. When necessary, titration should be carried out over 7 to 14 days. Concomitant use with Other Cardiovascular Agents: 1. Sublingual Nitroglycerin (NTG): May be taken as required to abort acute anginal attacks during diltiazem hydrochloride therapy. 2. 3. Beta-blockers: (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS . ) 4. Hypertensive or anginal patients who are treated with other formulations of diltiazem can safely be switched to Tiadylt ® ER capsules at the nearest equivalent total daily dose. Sprinkling the Capsule Contents on Food: Tiadylt ® ER (diltiazem hydrochloride extended-release) Capsules may also be administered by carefully opening the capsule and sprinkling the capsule contents on a spoonful of applesauce. The applesauce should be swallowed immediately without chewing and followed with a glass of cool water to ensure complete swallowing of the capsule contents. The applesauce should not be hot, and it should be soft enough to be swallowed without chewing. Any capsule contents/applesauce mixture should be used immediately and not stored for future use. Subdividing the contents of a Tiadylt ® ER (diltiazem hydrochloride extended-release) Capsules is not recommended. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Exertional Angina Pectoris Due to Atherosclerotic Coronary Artery Disease or Angina Pectoris at Rest Due to Coronary Artery Spasm: Dosage must be adjusted to each patient's needs. Although individual patients may respond to any dosage level, the average optimum dosage range appears to be 180 to 360 mg/day. Concomitant Use with Other Cardiovascular Agents Sublingual NTG may be taken as required to abort acute anginal attacks during diltiazem hydrochloride tablet therapy. Diltiazem hydrochloride tablets may be safely coadministered with short- and long-acting nitrates, but there have been no controlled studies to evaluate the antianginal effectiveness of this combination. (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .) 30 mg – Diltiazem tablets may be swallowed whole, crushed, or chewed. Do not split diltiazem tablets. 60 mg, 90 mg, and 120 mg – Diltiazem tablets may be swallowed whole, crushed, or chewed.
Warnings: WARNINGS Cardiac Conduction : Diltiazem hydrochloride prolongs AV node refractory periods without significantly prolonging sinus node recovery time, except in patients with sick sinus syndrome. This effect may rarely result in abnormally slow heart rates (particularly in patients with sick sinus syndrome) or second- or third-degree AV block (13 of 3290 patients or 0.40%). Concomitant use of diltiazem with beta-blockers or digitalis may result in additive effects on cardiac conduction. A patient with Prinzmetal's angina developed periods of asystole (2 to 5 seconds) after a single dose of 60 mg of diltiazem (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Congestive Heart Failure : Although diltiazem has a negative inotropic effect in isolated animal tissue preparations, hemodynamic studies in humans with normal ventricular function have not shown a reduction in cardiac index nor consistent negative effects on contractility (dP/dt). An acute study of oral diltiazem in patients with impaired ventricular function (ejection fraction 24% ± 6%) showed improvement in indices of ventricular function without significant decrease in contractile function (dP/dt). Worsening of congestive heart failure has been reported in patients with preexisting impairment of ventricular function. Experience with the use of diltiazem hydrochloride in combination with beta-blockers in patients with impaired ventricular function is limited. Caution should be exercised when using this combination. Hypotension : Decreases in blood pressure associated with diltiazem hydrochloride therapy may occasionally result in symptomatic hypotension. Acute Hepatic Injury : Mild elevations of transaminases with and without concomitant elevation in alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin have been observed in clinical studies. Such elevations were usually transient and frequently resolved even with continued diltiazem treatment. In rare instances, significant elevations in enzymes such as alkaline phosphatase, LDH, SGOT, SGPT, and other phenomena consistent with acute hepatic injury have been noted. These reactions tended to occur early after therapy initiation (1 to 8 weeks) and have been reversible upon discontinuation of drug therapy. The relationship to diltiazem hydrochloride is uncertain in some cases, but probable in some (see PRECAUTIONS ). WARNINGS Cardiac Conduction Diltiazem hydrochloride prolongs AV node refractory periods without significantly prolonging sinus node recovery time, except in patients with sick sinus syndrome. This effect may rarely result in abnormally slow heart rates (particularly in patients with sick sinus syndrome) or second, or third degree AV block (22 of 10,119 patients, or 0.2%); 41% of these 22 patients were receiving concomitant β-adrenoceptor antagonists versus 17% of the total group. A patient with Prinzmetal’s angina developed periods of asystole (2 to 5 seconds) after a single 60 mg dose of diltiazem. Congestive Heart Failure Although diltiazem has a negative inotropic effect in isolated animal tissue preparations, hemodynamic studies in humans with normal ventricular function have not shown a reduction in cardiac index nor consistent negative effects on contractility (dp/dt). An acute study of oral diltiazem in patients with impaired ventricular function (ejection fraction of 24% ± 6%) showed improvement in indices of ventricular function without significant decrease in contractile function (dp/dt). Hypotension Decreases in blood pressure associated with diltiazem hydrochloride therapy may occasionally result in symptomatic hypotension. Acute Hepatic Injury Mild elevations of serum transaminases with and without concomitant elevation in alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin have been observed in clinical studies. In rare instances, significant elevations in alkaline phosphatase, LDH, SGOT, SGPT, and other phenomena consistent with acute hepatic injury have been noted. These reactions tended to occur early after therapy initiation (1 to 6 weeks) and have been reversible upon discontinuation of drug therapy. The relationship to diltiazem is uncertain in some cases, but probable in some others. (See PRECAUTIONS .) WARNINGS Cardiac Conduction: Diltiazem hydrochloride prolongs AV node refractory periods without significantly prolonging sinus node recovery time, except in patients with sick sinus syndrome. A patient with Prinzmetal’s angina developed periods of asystole (2 to 5 seconds) after a single dose of 60 mg of diltiazem (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Congestive Heart Failure: Although diltiazem has a negative inotropic effect in isolated animal tissue preparations, hemodynamic studies in humans with normal ventricular function have not shown a reduction in cardiac index nor consistent negative effects on contractility (dP/dt). Hypotension: Decreases in blood pressure associated with diltiazem hydrochloride therapy may occasionally result in symptomatic hypotension. Acute Hepatic Injury: Mild elevations of transaminases with and without concomitant elevation in alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin have been observed in clinical studies. WARNINGS 1. Cardiac Conduction: Diltiazem hydrochloride prolongs AV node refractory periods without significantly prolonging sinus node recovery time, except in patients with sick sinus syndrome. This effect may rarely result in abnormally slow heart rates (particularly in patients with sick sinus syndrome) or second- or third-degree AV block (six of 1243 patients for 0.48%). 2. Experience with the use of diltiazem hydrochloride alone or in combination with beta-blockers in patients with impaired ventricular function is very limited. Caution should be exercised when using the drug in such patients. 3. 4. Acute Hepatic Injury: In rare instances, significant elevations in enzymes such as alkaline phosphatase, LDH, SGOT, SGPT, and other phenomena consistent with acute hepatic injury have been noted. These reactions have been reversible upon discontinuation of drug therapy. The relationship to diltiazem hydrochloride is uncertain in most cases, but probable in some (see PRECAUTIONS ). WARNINGS Cardiac Conduction: Diltiazem hydrochloride tablets prolong AV node refractory periods without significantly prolonging sinus node recovery time, except in patients with sick sinus syndrome. Experience with the use of diltiazem hydrochloride tablets in combination with beta-blockers in patients with impaired ventricular function is limited. Hypotension: Decreases in blood pressure associated with diltiazem hydrochloride tablets therapy may occasionally result in symptomatic hypotension. The relationship to diltiazem hydrochloride tablets is uncertain in some cases, but probable in some (see PRECAUTIONS ). This effect may rarely result in abnormally slow heart rates (particularly in patients with sick sinus syndrome) or second- or third-degree AV block (13 of 3007 patients or 0.43%). A patient with Prinzmetal's angina developed periods of asystole (2 to 5 seconds) after a single dose of 60 mg of diltiazem. In rare instances, significant elevations in enzymes such as alkaline phosphatase, LDH, SGOT, and SGPT, and other phenomena consistent with acute hepatic injury have been noted. The relationship to diltiazem hydrochloride is uncertain in some cases but probable in some (see PRECAUTIONS ). WARNINGS Cardiac Conduction: Diltiazem prolongs AV node refractory periods without significantly prolonging sinus node recovery time, except in patients with sick sinus syndrome. Experience with the use of diltiazem alone or in combination with beta-blockers in patients with impaired ventricular function is very limited. Hypotension: Decreases in blood pressure associated with diltiazem therapy may occasionally result in symptomatic hypotension. The relationship to diltiazem is uncertain in most cases, but probable in some (see PRECAUTIONS ).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Diltiazem hydrochloride is contraindicated in (1) patients with sick sinus syndrome except in the presence of a functioning ventricular pacemaker, (2) patients with second- or third-degree AV block except in the presence of a functioning ventricular pacemaker, (3) patients with hypotension (less than 90 mm Hg systolic), (4) patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the drug, and (5) patients with acute myocardial infarction and pulmonary congestion documented by x-ray on admission. CONTRAINDICATIONS Diltiazem hydrochloride is contraindicated in: (1) patients with sick sinus syndrome except in the presence of a functioning ventricular pacemaker; (2) patients with second or third degree AV block except in the presence of a functioning ventricular pacemaker; (3) patients with hypotension (less than 90 mmHg systolic); (4) patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the drug; and (5) patients with acute myocardial infarction and pulmonary congestion as documented by X-ray on admission. CONTRAINDICATIONS Diltiazem Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules are contraindicated in (1) patients with sick sinus syndrome except in the presence of a functioning ventricular pacemaker, (2) patients with second- or third-degree AV block except in the presence of a functioning ventricular pacemaker, (3) patients with hypotension (less than 90 mm Hg systolic), (4) patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the drug, and (5) patients with acute myocardial infarction and pulmonary congestion documented by x-ray on admission. CONTRAINDICATIONS Diltiazem hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in: Patients with sick sinus syndrome except in the presence of a functioning ventricular pacemaker Patients with second- or third-degree AV block except in the presence of a functioning ventricular pacemaker Patients with hypotension (less than 90 mm Hg systolic) Patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the drug Patients with acute myocardial infarction and pulmonary congestion documented by x-ray on admission CONTRAINDICATIONS Diltiazem hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in (1) patients with sick sinus syndrome except in the presence of a functioning ventricular pacemaker, (2) patients with second- or third-degree AV block except in the presence of a functioning ventricular pacemaker, (3) patients with hypotension (less than 90 mm Hg systolic), (4) patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the drug, and (5) patients with acute myocardial infarction and pulmonary congestion documented by x-ray on admission. CONTRAINDICATIONS CARDIZEM CD is contraindicated in (1) patients with sick sinus syndrome except in the presence of a functioning ventricular pacemaker, (2) patients with second- or third-degree AV block except in the presence of a functioning ventricular pacemaker, (3) patients with hypotension (less than 90 mm Hg systolic), (4) patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the drug, and (5) patients with acute myocardial infarction and pulmonary congestion documented by x-ray on admission. CONTRAINDICATIONS Diltiazem is contraindicated in: Patients with sick sinus syndrome except in the presence of a functioning ventricular pacemaker Patients with second- or third-degree AV block except in the presence of a functioning ventricular pacemaker Patients with severe hypotension (less than 90 mm Hg systolic) Patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the drug Patients with acute myocardial infarction and pulmonary congestion documented by x-ray on admission. CONTRAINDICATIONS Diltiazem is contraindicated in: Patients with sick sinus syndrome except in the presence of a functioning ventricular pacemaker Patients with second- or third-degree AV block except in the presence of a functioning ventricular pacemaker Patients with hypotension (less than 90 mm Hg systolic) Patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the drug Patients with acute myocardial infarction and pulmonary congestion documented by x-ray on admission
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Because of the potential for additive effects, slow titration is warranted in patients receiving diltiazem hydrochloride concomitantly with other agents known to affect cardiac contractility and/or conduction (see WARNINGS ). Pharmacologic studies indicate that there may be additive effects in prolonging AV conduction when using beta-blockers or digitalis concomitantly with diltiazem hydrochloride (see WARNINGS ). Diltiazem is both a substrate and an inhibitor of the cytochrome P450 3A4 enzyme system. Other drugs that are specific substrates, inhibitors, or inducers of this enzyme system may have a significant impact on the efficacy and side effect profile of diltiazem. Patients taking other drugs that are substrates of CYP450 3A4, especially patients with renal and/or hepatic impairment, may require dosage adjustment when starting or stopping concomitantly administered diltiazem in order to maintain optimum therapeutic blood levels. Anesthetics : The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium channel blockers. When used concomitantly, titrate anesthetics and calcium blockers slowly. Benzodiazepines : Studies showed that diltiazem increased the AUC of midazolam and triazolam by 3- to 4-fold and the C max by 2-fold, compared to placebo. The elimination half-life of midazolam and triazolam also increased (1.5- to 2.5-fold) during coadministration with diltiazem. These pharmacokinetic effects seen during diltiazem coadministration can result in increased clinical effects (e.g., prolonged sedation) of both midazolam and triazolam. Beta-blockers : Controlled and uncontrolled domestic studies suggest that concomitant use of diltiazem hydrochloride and beta-blockers is usually well tolerated, but available data are not sufficient to predict the effects of concomitant treatment in patients with left ventricular dysfunction or cardiac conduction abnormalities. Administration of diltiazem hydrochloride concomitantly with propranolol in five normal volunteers resulted in increased propranolol levels in all subjects and bioavailability of propranolol was increased approximately 50%. In vitro , propranolol appears to be displaced from its binding sites by diltiazem. If combination therapy is initiated or withdrawn in conjunction with propranolol, an adjustment in the propranolol dose may be warranted (see WARNINGS ). Buspirone : In nine healthy subjects, diltiazem significantly increased the mean buspirone AUC 5.5-fold and C max 4.1-fold compared to placebo. The T 1/2 and T max of buspirone were not significantly affected by diltiazem. Enhanced effects and increased toxicity of buspirone may be possible during concomitant administration with diltiazem. Subsequent dose adjustments may be necessary during coadministration, and should be based on clinical assessment. Carbamazepine : Concomitant administration of diltiazem with carbamazepine has been reported to result in elevated serum levels of carbamazepine (40% to 72% increase), resulting in toxicity in some cases. Cimetidine : A study in six healthy volunteers has shown a significant increase in peak diltiazem plasma levels (58%) and area under the curve (53%) after a 1-week course of cimetidine at 1200 mg per day and a single dose of diltiazem 60 mg. Ranitidine produced smaller, nonsignificant increases. The effect may be mediated by cimetidine's known inhibition of hepatic cytochrome P450, the enzyme system responsible for the first-pass metabolism of diltiazem. Patients currently receiving diltiazem therapy should be carefully monitored for a change in pharmacological effect when initiating and discontinuing therapy with cimetidine. An adjustment in the diltiazem dose may be warranted. Clonidine : Sinus bradycardia resulting in hospitalization and pacemaker insertion has been reported in association with the use of clonidine concurrently with diltiazem. Monitor heart rate in patients receiving concomitant diltiazem and clonidine. Cyclosporine : A pharmacokinetic interaction between diltiazem and cyclosporine has been observed during studies involving renal and cardiac transplant patients. In renal and cardiac transplant recipients, a reduction of cyclosporine dose ranging from 15% to 48% was necessary to maintain cyclosporine trough concentrations similar to those seen prior to the addition of diltiazem. If these agents are to be administered concurrently, cyclosporine concentrations should be monitored, especially when diltiazem therapy is initiated, adjusted, or discontinued. The effect of cyclosporine on diltiazem plasma concentrations has not been evaluated. Digitalis : Administration of diltiazem hydrochloride with digoxin in 24 healthy male subjects increased plasma digoxin concentrations approximately 20%. Another investigator found no increase in digoxin levels in 12 patients with coronary artery disease. Monitor digoxin levels when initiating, adjusting, and discontinuing diltiazem hydrochloride therapy to avoid possible over- or under- digitalization (see WARNINGS ). Ivabradine : Concurrent use of diltiazem increases exposure to ivabradine and may exacerbate bradycardia and conduction disturbances. Avoid concomitant use of ivabradine and diltiazem. Quinidine : Diltiazem significantly increases the AUC (0-∞) of quinidine by 51%, T 1/2 by 36%, and decreases its CL oral by 33%. Monitor for quinidine adverse effects and adjust the dose accordingly. Rifampin : Coadministration of rifampin with diltiazem lowered the diltiazem plasma concentrations to undetectable levels. Avoid coadministration of diltiazem with rifampin or any known CYP3A4 inducer. Statins : Diltiazem is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and has been shown to increase significantly the AUC of some statins. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis with statins metabolized by CYP3A4 may be increased with concomitant use of diltiazem. When possible, use a non-CYP3A4-metabolized statin together with diltiazem; otherwise, monitor for signs and symptoms of any statin related adverse events, and adjust the doses accordingly. In a healthy volunteer crossover study (N=10), coadministration of a single 20 mg dose of simvastatin at the end of a 14-day regimen with 120 mg BID diltiazem SR resulted in a 5-fold increase in mean simvastatin AUC versus simvastatin alone. Subjects with increased average steady-state exposures of diltiazem showed a greater fold increase in simvastatin exposure. Computer-based simulations showed that at a daily dose of 480 mg of diltiazem, an 8- to 9-fold mean increase in simvastatin AUC can be expected. If coadministration of simvastatin with diltiazem is required, limit the daily doses of simvastatin to 10 mg and diltiazem to 240 mg. In a ten-subject randomized, open-label, 4-way crossover study, coadministration of diltiazem (120 mg BID diltiazem SR for 2 weeks) with a single 20 mg dose of lovastatin resulted in 3- to 4-fold increase in mean lovastatin AUC and C max versus lovastatin alone. In the same study, there was no significant change in 20 mg single dose pravastatin AUC and C max during diltiazem coadministration. Diltiazem plasma levels were not significantly affected by lovastatin or pravastatin. Alcohol: Alcohol increases the rate at which diltiazem hydrochloride extended-release capsules release diltiazem in vitro . This effect may lead to more rapid absorption and an increase in the systemic exposure of diltiazem, and associated dose-related adverse reactions. Avoid consumption of alcohol with diltiazem hydrochloride extended-release capsules (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Pharmacologic studies indicate that there may be additive effects in prolonging AV conduction when using beta-blockers or digitalis concomitantly with Diltiazem Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules (see WARNINGS ). Diltiazem is both a substrate and an inhibitor of the Pg-p and cytochrome P450 3A4 enzyme system which may affect exposure to diltiazem and concomitant drugs metabolized by those pathways. Patients with renal and/or hepatic impairment may be particularly at risk of exposure changes. Anesthetics: The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity as well as the vascular dilation associated with anesthetics may be potentiated by calcium channel blockers. Benzodiazepines: Studies showed that diltiazem increased the AUC of midazolam and triazolam by 3- to 4-fold and the C max by 2-fold, compared to placebo. Beta-blockers: Controlled and uncontrolled domestic studies suggest that concomitant use of diltiazem hydrochloride and beta-blockers is usually well tolerated, but available data are not sufficient to predict the effects of concomitant treatment in patients with left ventricular dysfunction or cardiac conduction abnormalities. In vitro, propranolol appears to be displaced from its binding sites by diltiazem. Buspirone: In nine healthy subjects, diltiazem significantly increased the mean buspirone AUC 5.5-fold and C max 4.1-fold compared to placebo. Carbamazepine: Concomitant administration of diltiazem with carbamazepine has been reported to result in elevated serum levels of carbamazepine (40% to 72% increase), resulting in toxicity in some cases. Cimetidine: A study in six healthy volunteers has shown a significant increase in peak diltiazem plasma levels (58%) and AUC (53%) after a 1-week course of cimetidine at 1200 mg per day and a single dose of diltiazem 60 mg. The effect may be mediated by cimetidine’s known inhibition of hepatic cytochrome P450, the enzyme system responsible for the first-pass metabolism of diltiazem. Clonidine: Sinus bradycardia resulting in hospitalization and pacemaker insertion has been reported in association with the use of clonidine concurrently with diltiazem. Cyclosporine: A pharmacokinetic interaction between diltiazem and cyclosporine has been observed during studies involving renal and cardiac transplant patients. Digitalis: Administration of diltiazem hydrochloride with digoxin in 24 healthy male subjects increased plasma digoxin concentrations approximately 20%. Monitor digoxin levels when initiating, adjusting, and discontinuing diltiazem hydrochloride therapy to avoid possible over- or under-digitalization (see WARNINGS ). Ivabradine: Concurrent use of diltiazem increases exposure to ivabradine and may exacerbate bradycardia and conduction disturbances. Quinidine: Diltiazem significantly increases the AUC (0-∞) of quinidine by 51%, T 1/2 by 36%, and decreases its CL oral by 33%. Rifampin: Coadministration of rifampin with diltiazem lowered the diltiazem plasma concentrations to undetectable levels. Statins: Diltiazem is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and has been shown to increase significantly the AUC of some statins. When possible, use a non-CYP3A4-metabolized statin together with diltiazem; otherwise, monitor for signs and symptoms of any statin-related adverse events, and adjust the doses accordingly. Alcohol: Alcohol increases the rate at which Diltiazem Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules release diltiazem in vitro. Drug Interactions Due to the potential for additive effects, caution and careful titration are warranted in patients receiving diltiazem hydrochloride concomitantly with any agents known to affect cardiac contractility and/or conduction (see WARNINGS ). Anesthetics: The depression of cardiac contractility, conductivity, and automaticity, as well as the vascular dilation associated with anesthetics, may be potentiated by calcium channel blockers. When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium blockers should be titrated carefully. Beta-blockers: Controlled and uncontrolled domestic studies suggest that concomitant use of diltiazem hydrochloride and beta-blockers is usually well tolerated. Available data are not sufficient, however, to predict the effects of concomitant treatment, particularly in patients with left ventricular dysfunction or cardiac conduction abnormalities. Administration of diltiazem hydrochloride concomitantly with propranolol in five normal volunteers resulted in increased propranolol levels in all subjects, and bioavailability of propranolol was increased approximately 50%. Carbamazepine: Concomitant administration of diltiazem with carbamazepine has been reported to result in elevated serum levels of carbamazepine (40% to 72% increase) resulting in toxicity in some cases. Patients receiving these drugs concurrently should be monitored for a potential drug interaction. Cimetidine: A study in six healthy volunteers has shown a significant increase in peak diltiazem plasma levels (58%) and area-under-the-curve (53%) after a 1-week course of cimetidine at 1200 mg per day and a single dose of diltiazem 60 mg. In renal and cardiac transplant recipients, a reduction of cyclosporine trough dose ranging from 15% to 48% was necessary to maintain concentrations similar to those seen prior to the addition of diltiazem. Since there have been conflicting results regarding the effect of digoxin levels, it is recommended that digoxin levels be monitored when initiating, adjusting, and discontinuing diltiazem hydrochloride therapy to avoid possible over- or under-digitalization (see WARNINGS ). Quinidine: Diltiazem significantly increases the AUC (0→∞) of quinidine by 51%, T 1/2 by 36%, and decreases its CL oral by 33%. Monitoring for quinidine adverse effects may be warranted and the dose adjusted accordingly. Coadministration of diltiazem with rifampin or any known CYP3A4 inducer should be avoided when possible, and alternative therapy considered. When possible, use a non-CYP3A4-metabolized statin together with diltiazem; otherwise, dose adjustments for both diltiazem and the statin should be considered along with close monitoring for signs and symptoms of any statin-related adverse events. In a ten-subject randomized, open label, 4-way crossover study, coadministration of diltiazem (120 mg BID diltiazem SR for 2 weeks) with a single 20 mg dose of lovastatin resulted in 3- to 4-fold increase in mean lovastatin AUC and Cmax versus lovastatin alone. In the same study, there was no significant change in 20 mg single dose pravastatin AUC and Cmax during diltiazem coadministration. Drug Interactions Because of the potential for additive effects, slow titration is warranted in patients receiving diltiazem hydrochloride tablets concomitantly with other agents known to affect cardiac contractility and/or conduction (see WARNINGS ). Pharmacologic studies indicate that there may be additive effects in prolonging AV conduction when using beta-blockers or digitalis concomitantly with diltiazem hydrochloride tablets (see WARNINGS ). These pharmacokinetic effects seen during diltiazem coadministration can result in increased clinical effects ( e.g., prolonged sedation) of both midazolam and triazolam. Beta-blockers: Controlled and uncontrolled domestic studies suggest that concomitant use of diltiazem hydrochloride tablets and beta-blockers is usually well tolerated, but available data are not sufficient to predict the effects of concomitant treatment in patients with left ventricular dysfunction or cardiac conduction abnormalities. Administration of diltiazem hydrochloride tablets concomitantly with propranolol in five normal volunteers resulted in increased propranolol levels in all subjects and bioavailability of propranolol was increased approximately 50%. Cimetidine: A study in six healthy volunteers has shown a significant increase in peak diltiazem plasma levels (58%) and area under the curve (53%) after a 1-week course of cimetidine at 1200 mg per day and a single dose of diltiazem 60 mg. Digitalis: Administration of diltiazem hydrochloride tablets with digoxin in 24 healthy male subjects increased plasma digoxin concentrations approximately 20%. Monitor digoxin levels when initiating, adjusting, and discontinuing diltiazem hydrochloride tablets therapy to avoid possible over- or under- digitalization (see WARNINGS ). Pharmacologic studies indicate that there may be additive effects in prolonging AV conduction when using beta-blockers or digitalis concomitantly with CARDIZEM CD (see WARNINGS ). Alcohol: Alcohol increases the rate at which CARDIZEM CD releases diltiazem in vitro. Avoid consumption of alcohol with CARDIZEM CD (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility A 24-month study in rats at oral dosage levels of up to 100 mg/kg/day and a 21-month study in mice at oral dosage levels of up to 30 mg/kg/day showed no evidence of carcinogenicity. There was also no mutagenic response in vitro or in vivo in mammalian cell assays or in vitro in bacteria. No evidence of impaired fertility was observed in a study performed in male and female rats at oral dosages of up to 100 mg/kg/day. Pregnancy Reproduction studies have been conducted in mice, rats, and rabbits. Administration of doses ranging from five to ten times greater (on a mg/kg basis) than the daily recommended therapeutic dose has resulted in embryo and fetal lethality. These doses, in some studies, have been reported to cause skeletal abnormalities. In the perinatal/postnatal studies, there was an increased incidence of stillbirths at doses of 20 times the human dose or greater. There are no well-controlled studies in pregnant women; therefore, use diltiazem hydrochloride in pregnant women only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Nursing Mothers Diltiazem is excreted in human milk. One report suggests that concentrations in breast milk may approximate serum levels. If use of CARDIZEM CD is deemed essential, an alternative method of infant feeding should be instituted. Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established. Geriatric Use Clinical studies of diltiazem did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects. Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients. In general, dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Drug Interactions Due to the potential for additive effects, caution and careful titration are warranted in patients receiving diltiazem hydrochloride concomitantly with other agents known to affect cardiac contractility and/or conduction (see WARNINGS ). Pharmacologic studies indicate that there may be additive effects in prolonging AV conduction when using beta-blockers or digitalis concomitantly with Tiadylt (see WARNINGS ). When used concomitantly, anesthetics and calcium channel blockers should be titrated carefully. The elimination half-life of midazolam and triazolam also increased (1.5-to 2.5-fold) during coadministration with diltiazem. These pharmacokinetic effects seen during diltiazem coadministration can result in increased clinical effects ( e.g. , prolonged sedation) of both midazolam and triazolam. The T ½ and T max of buspirone were not significantly affected by diltiazem. Cimetidine: A study in six healthy volunteers has shown a significant increase in peak diltiazem plasma levels (58%) and AUC (53%) after a 1-week course of cimetidine 1200 mg/day and a single dose of diltiazem 60 mg. Quinidine: Diltiazem significantly increases the AUC (0→∞) of quinidine by 51%, T ½ by 36%, and decreases its CL oral by 33%. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis with statins metabolized by CYP3A4 is increased with concomitant use of diltiazem. When possible, use a non-CYP3A4-metabolized statin with diltiazem. Otherwise, reduce the dose for both diltiazem and the statin and monitor for signs and symptoms of muscle toxicity. In a healthy volunteer cross-over study (N=10), coadministration of a single 20 mg dose of simvastatin at the end of a 14-day regimen with 120 mg BID diltiazem sustained-release resulted in a 5-fold increase in mean simvastatin AUC versus simvastatin alone. Subjects with increased average steady-state exposures of diltiazem showed a greater increase in simvastatin exposure. In a ten-subject randomized, open label, 4-way cross-over study, coadministration of diltiazem (120 mg BID diltiazem sustained-release for 2 weeks) with a single 20 mg dose of lovastatin resulted in 3- to 4-fold increase in mean lovastatin AUC and C max versus lovastatin alone. Drug Interactions Due to the potential for additive effects, caution and careful titration are warranted in patients receiving diltiazem concomitantly with any agents known to affect cardiac contractility and/or conduction (see WARNINGS ). Pharmacologic studies indicate that there may be additive effects in prolonging AV conduction when using beta-blockers or digitalis concomitantly with diltiazem (see WARNINGS ). As with all drugs, care should be exercised when treating patients with multiple medications. Beta-blockers: Controlled and uncontrolled domestic studies suggest that concomitant use of diltiazem and beta-blockers is usually well tolerated. Administration of diltiazem concomitantly with propranolol in five normal volunteers resulted in increased propranolol levels in all subjects, and bioavailability of propranolol was increased approximately 50%. Digitalis: Administration of diltiazem with digoxin in 24 healthy male subjects increased plasma digoxin concentrations approximately 20%. Since there have been conflicting results regarding the effect of digoxin levels, it is recommended that digoxin levels be monitored when initiating, adjusting, and discontinuing diltiazem therapy to avoid possible over- or under-digitalization (see WARNINGS ). In a ten-subject randomized, open label, 4-way crossover study, coadministration of diltiazem (120 mg BID diltiazem SR for 2 weeks) with a single 20 mg dose of lovastatin resulted in 3- to 4-fold increase in mean lovastatin AUC and C max versus lovastatin alone.

=== SENNOSIDES ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Active ingredients Purpose (in each tablet) Purpose Docusate sodium 50 mg.......................................Stool softner Sennosides 8.6 mg................................................Laxative Laxative Purpose Active ingredients (in each tablet) Purpose Docusate sodium 50 mg Stool softner Sennosides 8.6 mg Laxative Purposes Stool softener Stimulant laxative Purpose Laxative Purpose Stool softener Laxative Purpose Stool softener Stimulant laxative Purposes Stool softener Laxative Drug Facts Purpose Laxative Purpose Stimulant laxative
Indications: Uses relieves occasional constipation (irregularity) generally produces bowel movement in 6-12 hours relieves occasional constipation (irregularity) generally causes bowel movement in 6 to 12 hours Uses For relief of occasional constipation (irregularity). This product generally produces bowel movement in 6 to 12 hours. Uses relieves occasional constipation (irregularity) generally produces bowel movement in 6 to 12 hours Uses  relieves occasional constipation (irregularity)  generally produces a bowel movement in 6-12 hours Uses relieves occasional constipation (irregularity) generally produces bowel movement in 6 to12 hours Uses relieves occasional constipation (irregularity) generally produces a bowel movement in 6-12 hours Uses relieves occasional constipation (irregularity) generally causes bowel movement in 6 to 12 hours
Dosage: Directions take preferably at bedtime or as directed by a doctor adults and children 12 years of age or older - starting dosage: 2 tablets once a day, maximum dosage: 4 tablets twice a day children 6 to under 12 years - starting dosage: 1 tablet once a day, maximum dosage: 2 tablets twice a day children 2 to under 6 years - starting dosage: 1/2 tablet once a day, maximum dosage: 1 tablet twice a day children under 2 years - starting dosage: ask a doctor, maximum dosage: ask a doctor Shake well before using Do not exceed recommended dose Age Starting Dose Maximum Dose adults and children 12 years and older 2-3 teaspoonfuls once a day preferably at bedtime; increase as needed or as recommended by a doctor 3 teaspoons in the morning and 3 teaspoons at bedtime Under 12 years of age ask a doctor ask a doctor Directions take preferably at bedtime or as directed by a doctor age starting dose maximum dose adults and children 12 years of age and older 2 tablets once a day 4 tablets twice a day children 6 to under 12 years 1 tablet once a day 2 tablets twice a day children 2 to under 6 years 1/2 tablet once a day 1 tablet twice a day children under 2 years ask a doctor ask a doctor Directions take only by mouth. Doses may be taken as a single daily dose, preferably in the evening, or in divided doses. adults and children 12 years and older: take 2-4 tablets daily children 6 to under 12 years of age: take 1-2 tablets daily children 2 to under 6 years of age: take up to 1 tablet daily children under 2 years: ask a doctor Directions  take preferably at bedtime or as directed by a doctor Age starting dosage maximum dosage adults and children 12 years of age and over 2 tablets once a day 4 tablets twice a day children 6 to under 12 years 1 tablet once a day 2 tablets twice a day children 2 to under 6 years 1/2 tablet once a day 1 tablet twice a day children under 2 years ask a doctor ask a doctor Directions take preferably at bedtime or as directed by a doctor age starting dosage maximum dosage adults and children 12 years of age or older 2 softgels once a day 4 softgels twice a day children 6 to under 12 years 1 softgel once a day 2 softgels twice a day children under 6 years of age ask a doctor ask a doctor adults and children 12 years and older take 2-4 tablets daily children 6 to under 12 years of age take 1-2 tablets daily children 2 to under 6 years of age take up to 1 tablet daily children under 2 ask a doctor Directions take preferably at bedtime or as directed by a doctor age starting dose maximum dose adults and children 12 years and older 2 tablets once a day 4 tablets twice a day children 6 to under 12 years 1 tablet once a day 2 tablets twice a day children 2 to under 6 years 1/2 tablet once a day 1 tablet twice a day children under 2 years ask a doctor ask a doctor Directions shake well before use do not exceed recommended dose Age Starting Dose Maximum Dose Adults and children over 12 years of age 10 to 15 mL once a day at bedtime, increase as needed or as directed by a doctor 15 mL in the morning and 15 mL at bedtime Children under 12 years of age Ask a doctor Ask a doctor Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older chew 2 chocolate pieces once or twice daily children 6 to under 12 years of age chew 1 chocolate piece once or twice daily children under 6 years of age ask a doctor
Warnings: Warnings Do not use if you are now taking mineral oil, unless directed by a doctor laxative products for longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have stomach pain nausea vomiting noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over 2 weeks Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or fail to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative. These may indicate a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Do not use laxative products for longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor. Ask a doctor or pharmacis before use if you have stomach pain, nausea or vomiting noticed a change in bowel habits that lasts over two weeks. Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative. Warnings Do not use if you are presently taking mineral oil, unless directed by a doctor. laxative products should not be used for a period longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor. Ask a doctor before use if you have stomach pain nausea vomitting noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over 2 weeks Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative. If pregnant or breast-feeding ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings  laxative products for longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have  stomach pain  nausea  vomiting  noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that continues over a period of 2 weeks Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or fail to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative. Warnings Do not use if you are now taking mineral oil, unless directed by a doctor laxative products for longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have stomach pain nausea vomiting noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that continues over a periodof 2 weeks Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or fail to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings Do not use laxative products for longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor if you are presently taking mineral oil, unless told to do so by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have stomach pain nausea vomiting noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over a period of 2 weeks Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or fail to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative. Warnings Do not use laxative products for longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor. Ask a doctor before use if you have stomach pain, nausea, or vomiting noticed a change in bowel habits that lasts over two weeks Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use of laxative. Warnings Do not use laxative products when abdominal pain, nausea or vomiting are present unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other drug. Laxatives may affect how other drugs work. Take this product 2 or more hours before or after other drugs. When using this product do not use for a period longer than 1 week Stop use and ask a doctor if rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement occur after use of a laxative. These may be signs of a serious condition. If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use.

=== BENZONATATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Benzonatate Capsule is indicated for the symptomatic relief of cough. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Benzonatate capsules USP are indicated for the symptomatic relief of cough. INDICATIONS AND USAGE BENZONATATE is indicated for the symptomatic relief of cough. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Benzonatate capsules is indicated for the symptomatic relief of cough. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Benzonatate USP is indicated for the symptomatic relief of cough. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Benzonatate capsules, USP are indicated for the symptomatic relief of cough.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and Children over 10 years of age Usual dose is one 100 mg or 200 mg capsule three times a day as needed for cough. If necessary to control cough, up to 600 mg daily in three divided doses may be given. Benzonatate Capsules should be swallowed whole. Benzonatate Capsules are not to be broken, chewed, dissolved, cut or crushed. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and Children over 10 years of age: Usual dose is one 100 mg or 200 mg capsule three times a day as needed for cough. Benzonatate capsules USP should be swallowed whole. Benzonatate capsules USP are not to be broken, chewed, dissolved, cut or crushed. BENZONATATE should be swallowed whole. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and Children over 10 years of age: Usual dose is one 100 mg, 150 mg or 200 mg capsule three times a day as needed for cough. B enzonatate capsules should be swallowed whole.
Warnings: WARNINGS Hypersensitivity Severe hypersensitivity reactions (including bronchospasm, laryngospasm and cardiovascular collapse) have been reported which are possibly related to local anesthesia from sucking or chewing the capsule instead of swallowing it. Severe reactions have required intervention with vasopressor agents and supportive measures. Psychiatric Effects Isolated instances of bizarre behavior, including mental confusion and visual hallucinations, have also been reported in patients taking Benzonatate Capsule in combination with other prescribed drugs. Accidental Ingestion and Death in Children Keep Benzonatate Capsules out of reach of children. Accidental ingestion of Benzonatate Capsules resulting in death has been reported in children below age 10. Signs and symptoms of overdose have been reported within 15-20 minutes and death has been reported within one hour of ingestion. If accidental ingestion occurs, seek medical attention immediately (see OVERDOSAGE ). Psychiatric Effects Isolated instances of bizarre behavior, including mental confusion and visual hallucinations, have also been reported in patients taking benzonatate in combination with other prescribed drugs. Accidental Ingestion and Death in Children Keep benzonatate out of reach of children. Accidental ingestion of benzonatate resulting in death has been reported in children below age 10. Signs and symptoms of overdose have been reported within 15 to 20 minutes and death has been reported within one hour of ingestion. If accidental ingestion occurs, seek medical attention immediately (see OVERDOSAGE). Psychiatric Effects Isolated instances of bizarre behavior, including mental confusion and visual hallucinations, have also been reported in patients taking benzonatate capsules in combination with other prescribed drugs. Psychiatric Efects Isolated instances of bizarre behavior, including mental confusion and visual hallucinations, have also been reported in patients taking benzonatate in combination with other prescribed drugs.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to benzonatate or related compounds.

=== AND OCTOCRYLENE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Active ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 3.0% Sunscreen Homosalate 4.0% Sunscreen Octisalate 4.5% Sunscreen Octocrylene 2.6% Sunscreen Active ingredients Purpose AVOBENZONE 2.3% Sunscreen HOMOSALATE 10.0% Sunscreen OCTISALATE 5.0% Sunscreen OCTOCRYLENE 5.0% Sunscreen Purpose Sunscreen Uses Uses Helps prevent sunburn. If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer & early skin aging caused by the sun. Active ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 3% Sunscreen Homosalate 10% Sunscreen Octisalate 5% Sunscreen Octocrylene 10% Sunscreen Active ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 3% Sunscreen Homosalate 15% Sunscreen Octisalate 5% Sunscreen Octocrylene 10% Sunscreen
Indications: Uses helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses - helps prevent sunburn - if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Indications & Usage Uses Helps prevent sunburn. Uses - helps prevent sunburn - if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun
Dosage: Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures. Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in sun, especially from 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses children under 6 months: ask a doctor Directions For sunscreen use: apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply: after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating immediately after towel drying at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures . To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses children under 6 months: Ask a doctor Directions For sunscreen use: ● apply generously and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure ● reapply at least every 2 hours ● use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating ● Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: ● limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. ● wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses ● children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor Directions For sunscreen use: shake well apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures . To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor Directions Directions Apply + reapply at least every 80 minutes. Sun protection measures. Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer & early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher & other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. - wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hats & sunglasses. Directions For sunscreen use: shake well before use apply generously 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply: ● after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ● immediately after towel drying ● at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures . ● wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor Directions spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure hold container 4-6 inches from the skin to apply. Rub in. do not spray directly into face. Spray on hands and then apply to face. do not apply in windy conditions use in a well-ventilated area reapply: after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating immediately after towel drying at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures. Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply: after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating immediately after towel drying at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures.
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. If product is swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs. Keep out of reach of children. Flammable Do not use near heat, flame, or while smoking Warnings For external use only Warnings Warnings For external use only. Do not use on damaged or broken skin. Stop use & ask a doctor if rash occurs. When using this product, keep out of eyes. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Can stain clothing. Keep away from clothes. Children under 6 months: ask a doctor. keep away from face to avoid breathing it Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Danger: Flammable. Contents under pressure. Do not use near fire, heat or while smoking. Do not puncture or incinerate. Store at temperature below 120°F (48°C). Use only as directed. Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal.

=== SIMVASTATIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Simvastatin tablets USP are indicated: To reduce the risk of total mortality by reducing risk of coronary heart disease death, non-fatal myocardial infarction and stroke, and the need for coronary and non-coronary revascularization procedures in adults with established coronary heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, peripheral vascular disease, and/or diabetes, who are at high risk of coronary heart disease events. As an adjunct to diet to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C): In adults with primary hyperlipidemia. In adults and pediatric patients aged 10 years and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). As an adjunct to other LDL-C-lowering therapies to reduce LDL-C in adults with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH). As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with: Primary dysbetalipoproteinemia. Hypertriglyceridemia. Simvastatin tablets USP are an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor indicated: To reduce the risk of total mortality by reducing risk of coronary heart disease death, non-fatal myocardial infarction and stroke, and the need for coronary and non-coronary revascularization procedures in adults with established coronary heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, peripheral vascular disease, and/or diabetes, who are at high risk of coronary heart disease events. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Simvastatin tablets are indicated: To reduce the risk of total mortality by reducing risk of coronary heart disease death, non-fatal myocardial infarction and stroke, and the need for coronary and non-coronary revascularization procedures in adults with established coronary heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, peripheral vascular disease, and/or diabetes, who are at high risk of coronary heart disease events. Simvastatin tablets are an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor indicated: ( 1 ) To reduce the risk of total mortality by reducing risk of coronary heart disease death, non-fatal myocardial infarction and stroke, and the need for coronary and non-coronary revascularization procedures in adults with established coronary heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, peripheral vascular disease, and/or diabetes, who are at high risk of coronary heart disease events. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Therapy with lipid-altering agents should be only one component of multiple risk factor intervention in individuals at significantly increased risk for atherosclerotic vascular disease due to hypercholesterolemia. Drug therapy is indicated as an adjunct to diet when the response to a diet restricted in saturated fat and cholesterol and other nonpharmacologic measures alone has been inadequate. Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets, which contain a cholesterol absorption inhibitor and an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin), are indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet to: • reduce elevated total-C, LDL-C, Apo B, TG, and non-HDL-C, and to increase HDL-C in patients with primary (heterozygous familial and non-familial) hyperlipidemia or mixed hyperlipidemia. ( 1.1 ) • reduce elevated total-C and LDL-C in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH), as an adjunct to other lipid-lowering treatments. ( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use ( 1.3 ) • No incremental benefit of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin has been established. • Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets have not been studied in Fredrickson Type I, III, IV, and V dyslipidemias. 1.1 Primary Hyperlipidemia Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets are indicated for the reduction of elevated total cholesterol (total-C), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), apolipoprotein B (Apo B), triglycerides (TG), and non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (non-HDL-C), and to increase high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) in patients with primary (heterozygous familial and non-familial) hyperlipidemia or mixed hyperlipidemia. 1.2 Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets are indicated for the reduction of elevated total-C and LDL-C in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, as an adjunct to other lipid-lowering treatments (e.g., LDL apheresis) or if such treatments are unavailable. 1.3 Limitations of Use No incremental benefit of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin has been established. Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets have not been studied in Fredrickson type I, III, IV, and V dyslipidemias. 1. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Therapy with lipid-altering agents should be only one component of multiple risk factor intervention in individuals at significantly increased risk for atherosclerotic vascular disease due to hypercholesterolemia. In patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) or at high risk of CHD, simvastatin tablets can be started simultaneously with diet. Simvastatin tablets are an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated as an adjunctive therapy to diet to: Reduce the risk of total mortality by reducing CHD deaths and reduce the risk of non-fatal myocardial infarction, stroke, and the need for revascularization procedures in patients at high risk of coronary events. ( 1.1 ) Reduce elevated total-C, LDL-C, Apo B, TG and increase HDL-C in patients with primary hyperlipidemia (heterozygous familial and nonfamilial) and mixed dyslipidemia. ( 1.2 ) Reduce elevated TG in patients with hypertriglyceridemia and reduce TG and VLDL-C in patients with primary dysbeta-lipoproteinemia. ( 1.2 ) Reduce total-C and LDL-C in adult patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. ( 1.2 ) Reduce elevated total-C, LDL-C, and Apo B in boys and postmenarchal girls, 10 to 17 years of age with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia after failing an adequate trial of diet therapy. ( 1.2 , 1.3 ) Limitations of Use Simvastatin tablets have not been studied in Fredrickson Types I and V dyslipidemias. ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Reductions in Risk of CHD Mortality and Cardiovascular Events In patients at high risk of coronary events because of existing coronary heart disease, diabetes, peripheral vessel disease, history of stroke or other cerebrovascular disease, simvastatin tablets are indicated to: Reduce the risk of total mortality by reducing CHD deaths. Reduce the risk of non-fatal myocardial infarction and stroke. Reduce the need for coronary and non-coronary revascularization procedures. 1.2 Hyperlipidemia Simvastatin tablets are indicated to: Reduce elevated total cholesterol (total-C), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), apolipoprotein B (Apo B), and triglycerides (TG), and to increase high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) in patients with primary hyperlipidemia (Fredrickson type IIa, heterozygous familial and nonfamilial) or mixed dyslipidemia (Fredrickson type IIb). Reduce elevated TG in patients with hypertriglyceridemia (Fredrickson type lV hyperlipidemia). Reduce elevated TG and VLDL-C in patients with primary dysbetalipoproteinemia (Fredrickson type III hyperlipidemia). Reduce total-C and LDL-C in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) as an adjunct to other lipid-lowering treatments (e.g., LDL apheresis) or if such treatments are unavailable. 1.3 Adolescent Patients with Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) Simvastatin tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet to reduce total-C, LDL-C, and Apo B levels in adolescent boys and girls who are at least one year post-menarche, 10 to 17 years of age, with HeFH, if after an adequate trial of diet therapy the following findings are present: LDL cholesterol remains ≥190 mg/dL; or LDL cholesterol remains ≥160 mg/dL and There is a positive family history of premature cardiovascular disease (CVD) or Two or more other CVD risk factors are present in the adolescent patient. The minimum goal of treatment in pediatric and adolescent patients is to achieve a mean LDL-C <130 mg/dL. The optimal age at which to initiate lipid-lowering therapy to decrease the risk of symptomatic adulthood CAD has not been determined. 1.4 Limitations of Use Simvastatin tablets have not been studied in conditions where the major abnormality is elevation of chylomicrons (i.e., hyperlipidemia Fredrickson types I and V).
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Dosage and Administration Information : ( 1 ) Take simvastatin tablets USP orally once daily in the evening. Maximum recommended dosage is simvastatin tablets USP 40 mg once daily. An 80 mg daily dosage of simvastatin tablets USP is restricted to patients who have been taking simvastatin tablets USP 80 mg daily chronically (e.g., for 12 months or more) without evidence of muscle toxicity. For patients that require a high-intensity statin or are unable to achieve their LDL-C goal receiving simvastatin tablets USP 40 mg daily, prescribe alternative LDL-C lowering treatment. Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating, and adjust the dosage if necessary. Adults : Recommended dosage is 20 mg to 40 mg once daily. ( 2.2 ) Pediatric Patients Aged 10 Years and Older with HeFH : Recommended dosage is 10 mg to 40 mg once daily. ( 2.3 ) Patients with Severe Renal Impairment : Recommended starting dosage is simvastatin 5 mg once daily. ( 2.4 , 8.6 ) See full prescribing information for simvastatin tablets USP dosage modifications due to drug interactions. ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information Take simvastatin tablets USP orally once daily in the evening. The maximum recommended dosage is simvastatin tablets USP 40 mg once daily [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2.2 , 2.3 )]. An 80 mg daily dosage of simvastatin tablets USP is restricted to patients who have been taking simvastatin tablets USP 80 mg daily chronically (e.g., for 12 months or more) without evidence of muscle toxicity [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )]. If as dose is missed, take the missed dose as soon as possible. Do not double the next dose. For patients that require a high-intensity statin or are unable to achieve their LDL-C goal receiving simvastatin tablets USP 40 mg daily, prescribe alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment. Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating simvastatin tablets USP, and adjust the dosage if necessary. 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients The recommended dosage range of simvastatin tablets USP is 20 mg to 40 mg once daily 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 10 Years of Age and Older with HeFH The recommended dosage range of simvastatin tablets USP is 10 mg to 40 mg daily. 2.4 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment For patients with severe renal impairment [creatinine clearance (CLcr) 15 – 29 mL/min], the recommended starting dosage of simvastatin is 5 mg once daily [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 ) AND USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.6 )]. Use another simvastatin product to initiate dosing in such patients [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2.1 )]. There are no dosage adjustment recommendations for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. 2.5 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Concomitant use of simvastatin tablets USP with the following drugs requires dosage modification of simvastatin tablets USP [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 ) AND DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7.1 )]. Patients taking Lomitapide Reduce the dosage of simvastatin tablets USP by 50%. Do not exceed simvastatin tablets USP 20 mg once daily (or 40 mg once daily for patients who have previously taken an 80 mg daily dosage of simvastatin tablets USP chronically while taking lomitapide) [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.1)]. Patients taking Verapamil, Diltiazem, or Dronedarone Do not exceed simvastatin tablets USP 10 mg once daily. Patients taking Amiodarone, Amlodipine, or Ranolazine Do not exceed simvastatin tablets USP 20 mg once daily. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Dosage and Administration Information: ( 2.1 ) Take simvastatin tablets orally once daily in the evening. Maximum recommended dosage is simvastatin tablets 40 mg once daily. An 80 mg daily dosage of simvastatin tablets are restricted to patients who have been taking simvastatin tablets 80 mg daily chronically (e.g., for 12 months or more) without evidence of muscle toxicity. For patients that require a high-intensity statin or are unable to achieve their LDL-C goal receiving simvastatin tablets 40 mg daily, prescribe alternative LDL-C lowering treatment. ( 2.4 , 8.6 ) See full prescribing information for simvastatin tablets dosage modifications due to drug interactions. ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information Take simvastatin tablets orally once daily in the evening. The maximum recommended dosage is simvastatin tablets 40 mg once daily [see Dosage and Administration (2.2 , 2.3) ] . An 80 mg daily dosage of simvastatin tablets are restricted to patients who have been taking simvastatin 80 mg daily chronically (e.g., for 12 months or more) without evidence of muscle toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . For patients that require a high-intensity statin or are unable to achieve their LDL-C goal receiving simvastatin tablets 40 mg daily, prescribe alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment. Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating simvastatin tablets, and adjust the dosage if necessary. 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients The recommended dosage range of simvastatin tablets are 20 mg to 40 mg once daily. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 10 Years of Age and Older with HeFH The recommended dosage range of simvastatin tablets are 10 mg to 40 mg daily. 2.4 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment For patients with severe renal impairment [creatinine clearance (CLcr) 15 to 29 mL/min], the recommended starting dosage of simvastatin is 5 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. 2.5 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Concomitant use of simvastatin tablets with the following drugs requires dosage modification of simvastatin tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Patients taking Lomitapide Reduce the dosage of simvastatin tablets by 50%. Do not exceed simvastatin tablets 20 mg once daily (or 40 mg once daily for patients who have previously taken an 80 mg daily dosage of simvastatin tablets chronically while taking lomitapide) [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ]. Patients taking Verapamil, Diltiazem, or Dronedarone Do not exceed simvastatin tablets 10 mg once daily. Patients taking Amiodarone, Amlodipine, or Ranolazine Do not exceed simvastatin tablets 20 mg once daily. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Dose range is 10 mg/10 mg/day to 10 mg/40 mg/day. ( 2.1 ) • Recommended usual starting dose is 10 mg/10 mg or 10 mg/20 mg/day. ( 2.1 ) • Due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, use of the 10 mg/80 mg dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should be restricted to patients who have been taking ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/80 mg chronically (e.g., for 12 months or more) without evidence of muscle toxicity. ( 2.2 ) • Patients who are currently tolerating the 10 mg/80 mg dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets who need to be initiated on an interacting drug that is contraindicated or is associated with a dose cap for simvastatin should be switched to an alternative statin or statin-based regimen with less potential for the drug-drug interaction. ( 2.2 ) • Due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, associated with the 10 mg/80 mg dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets, patients unable to achieve their LDL-C goal utilizing the 10 mg/40 mg dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should not be titrated to the 10 mg/80 mg dose, but should be placed on alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment(s) that provides greater LDL-C lowering. ( 2.2 ) • Dosing of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should occur either ≥ 2 hours before or ≥ 4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant. ( 2.3 , 7.5 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosing The usual dosage range is 10 mg/10 mg/day to 10 mg/40 mg/day. The recommended usual starting dose is 10 mg/10 mg/day or 10 mg/20 mg/day. Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should be taken as a single daily dose in the evening, with or without food. Patients who require a larger reduction in LDL-C (greater than 55%) may be started at 10 mg/40 mg/day in the absence of moderate to severe renal impairment (estimated glomerular filtration rate less than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ). After initiation or titration of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets, lipid levels may be analyzed after 2 or more weeks and dosage adjusted, if needed. 2.2 Restricted Dosing for 10 mg/80 mg Due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, particularly during the first year of treatment, use of the 10 mg/80 mg dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should be restricted to patients who have been taking ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/80 mg chronically (e.g., for 12 months or more) without evidence of muscle toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. Patients who are currently tolerating the 10 mg/80 mg dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets who need to be initiated on an interacting drug that is contraindicated or is associated with a dose cap for simvastatin should be switched to an alternative statin or statin-based regimen with less potential for the drug-drug interaction. Due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, associated with the 10 mg/80 mg dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets, patients unable to achieve their LDL-C goal utilizing the 10 mg/40 mg dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should not be titrated to the 10 mg/80 mg dose, but should be placed on alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment(s) that provides greater LDL-C lowering. 2.3 Coadministration with Other Drugs Patients taking Verapamil, Diltiazem, or Dronedarone • The dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg/10 mg/day [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.3 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Patients taking Amiodarone, Amlodipine or Ranolazine • The dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg/20 mg/day [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.3 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Patients taking Bile Acid Sequestrants • Dosing of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should occur either greater than or equal to 2 hours before or greater than or equal to 4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant [ see Drug Interactions ( 7.5 ) ]. 2.4 Patients with Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia The recommended dosage for patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia is ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/40 mg/day in the evening [ see Dosage and Administration, Restricted Dosing for 10 mg/80 mg ( 2.2 ) ]. Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should be used as an adjunct to other lipid-lowering treatments (e.g., LDL apheresis) in these patients or if such treatments are unavailable. Simvastatin exposure is approximately doubled with concomitant use of lomitapide; therefore, the dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should be reduced by 50% if initiating lomitapide. Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablet dosage should not exceed 10 mg/20 mg/day (or 10 mg/40 mg/day for patients who have previously taken simvastatin 80 mg/day chronically, e.g., for 12 months or more, without evidence of muscle toxicity) while taking lomitapide. 2.5 Patients with Renal Impairment/Chronic Kidney Disease In patients with mild renal impairment (estimated GFR greater than or equal to 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), no dosage adjustment is necessary. In patients with chronic kidney disease and estimated glomerular filtration rate less than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 , the dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets is 10 mg/20 mg/day in the evening. In such patients, higher doses should be used with caution and close monitoring [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ); Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 2.6 Geriatric Patients No dosage adjustment is necessary in geriatric patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. simvastatin tablets USP 80 mg daily dosage is restricted to patients who have been taking simvastatin tablets USP 80 mg daily chronically (e.g., for 12 months or more) without evidence of muscle toxicity. simvastatin tablets USP is not available in a 5 mg strength. Use another simvastatin product to initiate dosing in such patients. The simvastatin tablets USP 80 mg daily dosage is restricted to patients who have been taking simvastatin tablets USP 80 mg daily chronically (e.g., for 12 months or more) without evidence of muscle toxicity [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )]. There are no dosage adjustment recommendations for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment 2.5 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Concomitant use of simvastatin tablets USP with the following drugs requires dosage modification of simvastatin tablets USP [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 ) AND DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7.1 )]. Do not exceed simvastatin tablets USP 20 mg once daily (or 40 mg once daily for patients who have previously taken simvastatin tablets USP 80 mg daily chronically while taking lomitapide) [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.1)]. An 80 mg daily dosage of simvastatin tablets are restricted to patients who have been taking simvastatin 80mg daily chronically (e.g., for 12 months or more) without evidence of muscle toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . If as dose is missed, take the missed dose assoon as possible. 2. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dose range is 5 to 40 mg/day. ( 2.1 ) Recommended usual starting dose is 10 or 20 mg once a day in the evening. ( 2.1 ) Recommended starting dose for patients at high risk of CHD is 40 mg/day. ( 2.1 ) Due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, use of the 80-mg dose of simvastatin tablets should be restricted to patients who have been taking simvastatin 80 mg chronically (e.g., for 12 months or more) without evidence of muscle toxicity. ( 2.2 ) Patients who are currently tolerating the 80-mg dose of simvastatin tablets who need to be initiated on an interacting drug that is contraindicated or is associated with a dose cap for simvastatin should be switched to an alternative statin with less potential for the drug-drug interaction. ( 2.2 ) Due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, associated with the 80-mg dose of simvastatin tablets, patients unable to achieve their LDL-C goal utilizing the 40-mg dose of simvastatin tablets should not be titrated to the 80-mg dose, but should be placed on alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment(s) that provides greater LDL-C lowering. ( 2.2 ) Adolescents (10 to 17 years of age) with HeFH: starting dose is 10 mg/day; maximum recommended dose is 40 mg/day. ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosing The usual dosage range is 5 to 40 mg/day. In patients with CHD or at high risk of CHD, simvastatin tablets can be started simultaneously with diet. The recommended usual starting dose is 10 or 20 mg once a day in the evening. For patients at high risk for a CHD event due to existing CHD, diabetes, peripheral vessel disease, history of stroke or other cerebrovascular disease, the recommended starting dose is 40 mg/day. Lipid determinations should be performed after 4 weeks of therapy and periodically thereafter. 2.2 Restricted Dosing for 80 mg Due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, particularly during the first year of treatment, use of the 80-mg dose of simvastatin tablets should be restricted to patients who have been taking simvastatin 80 mg chronically (e.g., for 12 months or more) without evidence of muscle toxicity. [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Patients who are currently tolerating the 80-mg dose of simvastatin tablets who need to be initiated on an interacting drug that is contraindicated or is associated with a dose cap for simvastatin should be switched to an alternative statin with less potential for the drug-drug interaction. Due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, associated with the 80-mg dose of simvastatin tablets, patients unable to achieve their LDL-C goal utilizing the 40-mg dose of simvastatin tablets should not be titrated to the 80-mg dose, but should be placed on alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment(s) that provides greater LDL-C lowering. 2.3 Coadministration with Other Drugs Patients taking Verapamil, Diltiazem, or Dronedarone The dose of simvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg/day [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Drug Interactions (7.3) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. . Patients taking Amiodarone, Amlodipine or Ranolazine The dose of simvastatin tablets should not exceed 20 mg/day [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Drug Interactions (7.3) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.4 Patients with Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia The recommended dosage is 40 mg/day in the evening [see Dosage and Administration, Restricted Dosing for 80 mg (2.2) ] . Simvastatin tablets should be used as an adjunct to other lipid-lowering treatments (e.g., LDL apheresis) in these patients or if such treatments are unavailable. Simvastatin exposure is approximately doubled with concomitant use of lomitapide; therefore, the dose of simvastatin tablets should be reduced by 50% if initiating lomitapide. Simvastatin tablets dosage should not exceed 20 mg/day (or 40 mg/day for patients who have previously taken simvastatin tablets 80 mg/day chronically, e.g., for 12 months or more, without evidence of muscle toxicity) while taking lomitapide. 2.5 Adolescents (10 to 17 years of age) with Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia The recommended usual starting dose is 10 mg once a day in the evening. The recommended dosing range is 10 to 40 mg/day; the maximum recommended dose is 40 mg/day. Doses should be individualized according to the recommended goal of therapy [see NCEP Pediatric Panel Guidelines National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP): Highlights of the Report of the Expert Panel on Blood Cholesterol Levels in Children and Adolescents. Pediatrics 89(3):495-501. 1992. and Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Adjustments should be made at intervals of 4 weeks or more. 2.6 Patients with Renal Impairment Because simvastatin tablets do not undergo significant renal excretion, modification of dosage should not be necessary in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment. However, caution should be exercised when simvastatin tablets are administered to patients with severe renal impairment; such patients should be started at 5 mg/day and be closely monitored [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.7 Chinese Patients Taking Lipid-Modifying Doses (greater than or equal to 1 g/day Niacin) of Niacin-Containing Products Because of an increased risk for myopathy, in Chinese patients taking simvastatin 40 mg coadministered with lipid-modifying doses (greater than or equal to 1 g/day niacin) of niacin-containing products, caution should be used when treating Chinese patients with simvastatin doses exceeding 20 mg/day coadministered with lipid-modifying doses of niacin-containing products. Because the risk for myopathy is dose-related, Chinese patients should not receive simvastatin 80 mg coadministered with lipid-modifying doses of niacin-containing products. The cause of the increased risk of myopathy is not known. It is also unknown if the risk for myopathy with coadministration of simvastatin with lipid-modifying doses of niacin-containing products observed in Chinese patients applies to other Asian patients. [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Simvastatin is contraindicated in the following conditions: Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (select azole anti-fungals, macrolide antibiotics, anti-viral medications, and nefazodone) [see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7.1 )]. Concomitant use of cyclosporine, danazol or gemfibrozil [see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7.1 )]. Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.3 )] Hypersensitivity to simvastatin or any excipients in simvastatin tablets USP. Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson syndrome, have been reported [see ADVERSE REACTIONS ( 6.2 )] Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (select azole anti-fungals, macrolide antibiotics, anti-viral medications, and nefazodone) ( 4 , 7.1 ) Concomitant use of cyclosporine, danazol or gemfibrozil ( 4 , 7.1 ) Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis ( 4 , 5.3 ) Hypersensitivity to simvastatin or any excipient in simvastatin tablets USP ( 4 , 6.2 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Simvastatin tablets are contraindicated in the following conditions: Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (select azole anti-fungals, macrolide antibiotics, anti-viral medications, and nefazodone) [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. Concomitant use of cyclosporine, danazol or gemfibrozil [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Hypersensitivity to simvastatin or any excipients in simvastatin tablets. Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema and Stevens-Johnson syndrome, have been reported [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (select azole anti-fungals, macrolide antibiotics, anti-viral medications, and nefazodone) ( 4 , 7.1 ) Concomitant use of cyclosporine, danazol or gemfibrozil ( 4 , 7.1 ) Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis ( 4 , 5.3 ) Hypersensitivity to simvastatin or any excipient in simvastatin tablets ( 4 , 6.2 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets are contraindicated in the following conditions: • Concomitant administration of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, HIV protease inhibitors, boceprevir, telaprevir, erythromycin, clarithromycin, telithromycin, nefazodone, and cobicistat-containing products) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. • Concomitant administration of gemfibrozil, cyclosporine, or danazol [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. • Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ) ]. • Active liver disease or unexplained persistent elevations in hepatic transaminase levels [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ]. • Women who are pregnant or may become pregnant. Serum cholesterol and triglycerides increase during normal pregnancy, and cholesterol or cholesterol derivatives are essential for fetal development. Because HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins), such as simvastatin, decrease cholesterol synthesis and possibly the synthesis of other biologically active substances derived from cholesterol, ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Atherosclerosis is a chronic process and the discontinuation of lipid-lowering drugs during pregnancy should have little impact on the outcome of long-term therapy of primary hypercholesterolemia. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablet use during pregnancy; however, in rare reports congenital anomalies were observed following intrauterine exposure to statins. In rat and rabbit animal reproduction studies, simvastatin revealed no evidence of teratogenicity. Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should be administered to women of childbearing age only when such patients are highly unlikely to conceive. If the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should be discontinued immediately and the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 ) ]. • Nursing mothers. It is not known whether simvastatin is excreted into human milk; however, a small amount of another drug in this class does pass into breast milk. Because statins have the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants, women who require ezetimibe and simvastatin tablet treatment should not breastfeed their infants [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.3 ) ]. • Concomitant administration of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. ( 4 , 5.1 ) • Concomitant administration of gemfibrozil, cyclosporine, or danazol. ( 4 , 5.1 ) • Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication ( 4 , 6.2 ) • Active liver disease or unexplained persistent elevations of hepatic transaminase levels ( 4 , 5.3 ) • Women who are pregnant or may become pregnant ( 4 , 8.1 ) • Nursing mothers ( 4 , 8.3 ) 4. CONTRAINDICATIONS Simvastatin tablets are contraindicated in the following conditions: Concomitant administration of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, HIV protease inhibitors, boceprevir, telaprevir, erythromycin, clarithromycin, telithromycin, nefazodone, and cobicistat-containing products) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Concomitant administration of gemfibrozil, cyclosporine, or danazol [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . Active liver disease, which may include unexplained persistent elevations in hepatic transaminase levels [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Women who are pregnant or may become pregnant. Because HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) decrease cholesterol synthesis and possibly the synthesis of other biologically active substances derived from cholesterol, simvastatin tablets may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of use with simvastatin tablets during pregnancy; however, in rare reports congenital anomalies were observed following intrauterine exposure to statins. Simvastatin tablets should be administered to women of childbearing age only when such patients are highly unlikely to conceive. If the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, simvastatin tablets should be discontinued immediately and the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ] . Nursing mothers. Because statins have the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants, women who require treatment with simvastatin tablets should not breastfeed their infants [see Use in Specific Populations (8.3) ] . Concomitant administration of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. ( 4 , 5.1 ) Concomitant administration of gemfibrozil, cyclosporine, or danazol. ( 4 , 5.1 ) Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication. ( 4 , 6.2 ) Active liver disease, which may include unexplained persistent elevations in hepatic transaminase levels. ( 4 , 5.2 ) Women who are pregnant or may become pregnant. ( 4 , 8.1 ) Nursing mothers. ( 4 , 8.3 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for details regarding concomitant use of simvastatin with other drugs or grapefruit juice that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. ( 2.5 , 7.1 ) Coumarin Anticoagulants: Obtain INR before simvastatin initiation and monitor INR during simvastatin dosage initiation or adjustment. ( 7.2 ) Digoxin: During simvastatin initiation, monitor digoxin levels. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Simvastatin Simvastatin is a substrate of CYP3A4 and of the transport protein OATP1B1. Simvastatin exposure can be significantly increased with concomitant administration of inhibitors of CYP3A4 and OATP1B1. Table 2 includes a list of drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly with simvastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 ) AND CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )] . Table 2: Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Simvastatin Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors Clinical Impact: Simvastatin is a substrate of CYP3A4. Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors with simvastatin increases simvastatin exposure and increases the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, particularly with higher simvastatin dosages. Intervention: Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors with Simvastatin is contraindicated [see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 )] . If treatment with a CYP3A4 inhibitor is unavoidable, suspend simvastatin during the course of strong CYP3A4 inhibitor treatment. Examples: Select azole anti-fungals (e.g., itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, and voriconazole), select macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin and clarithromycin), select HIV protease inhibitors (e.g., nelfinavir, ritonavir, and darunavir/ritonavir), select HCV protease inhibitors (e.g., boceprevir and telaprevir), cobicistat-containing products, and nefazodone. Cyclosporine, Danazol, or Gemfibrozil Clinical Impact: The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of cyclosporine, danazol, or gemfibrozil with simvastatin. Gemfibrozil may cause myopathy when given alone. Intervention: Concomitant use of cyclosporine, danazol, or gemfibrozil with simvastatin is contraindicated [see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 )] . Amiodarone, Dronedarone, Ranolazine, or Calcium Channel Blockers Clinical Impact: The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased by concomitant use of amiodarone, dronedarone, ranolazine, or calcium channel blockers with simvastatin. Intervention: For patients taking verapamil, diltiazem, or dronedarone, do not exceed simvastatin 10 mg daily. For patients taking amiodarone, amlodipine, or ranolazine, do not exceed simvastatin 20 mg daily [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2.5 )] . Lomitapide Clinical Impact: Simvastatin exposure is approximately doubled with concomitant use of lomitapide and the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased. Intervention: Reduce the dose of simvastatin by 50% if initiating lomitapide. Do not exceed simvastatin 20 mg daily (or simvastatin 40 mg daily for patients who have previously taken an 80 mg daily dosage of simvastatin chronically) while taking lomitapide [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2.1 , 2.5 )] . Daptomycin Clinical Impact: Cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported with simvastatin administered with daptomycin. Both simvastatin and daptomycin can cause myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when given alone and the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis may be increased by coadministration. Intervention: If treatment with daptomycin is required, consider temporarily suspending simvastatin during the course of daptomycin treatment. Niacin Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been observed with concomitant use of lipid modifying dosages of niacin-containing products (≥1 gram/day niacin) with simvastatin. The risk of myopathy is greater in Chinese patients. In a clinical study (median follow-up 3.9 years) of patients at high risk of CVD and with well-controlled LDL-C levels on simvastatin 40 mg/day with or without ezetimibe 10 mg/day, there was no incremental benefit on cardiovascular outcomes with the addition of lipid-modifying doses of niacin. Intervention: Concomitant use of simvastatin with lipid-modifying dosages of niacin is not recommended in Chinese patients [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.8 )]. For non-Chinese patients, consider if the benefit of using lipid-modifying doses of niacin concomitantly with simvastatin outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. If concomitant use is decided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy, particularly during initiation of therapy and during upward dose titration of either drug. Fibrates (other than Gemfibrozil) Clinical Impact: Fibrates may cause myopathy when given alone. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of fibrates with simvastatin. Intervention : Consider if the benefit of using fibrates concomitantly with simvastatin outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Colchicine Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with concomitant use of colchicine with simvastatin. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using colchicine concomitantly with simvastatin outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Grapefruit Juice Clinical Impact: Grapefruit juice can raise the plasma levels of simvastatin and may increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Intervention: Avoid grapefruit juice when taking simvastatin. 7.2 Simvastatin Effects on Other Drugs Table 3 presents Simvastatin's effect on other drugs and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 3: Simvastatin Effects on Other Drugs Coumarin Anticoagulants Clinical Impact: Simvastatin may potentiate the effect of coumarin anticoagulants and increase the INR. The concomitant use of simvastatin (20 to 40 mg) and coumarin anticoagulants increased the INR from a baseline of 1.7 to 1.8 in healthy subjects and from 2.6 to 3.4 in patients with hyperlipidemia. There are postmarketing reports of clinically evident bleeding and/or increased INR in patients taking concomitant statins and warfarin. Intervention: In patients taking coumarin anticoagulants, obtain an INR before starting simvastatin and frequently enough after initiation, dose titration, or discontinuation to ensure that no significant alteration in INR occurs. Once the INR is stable, monitor INR at regularly recommended intervals. Digoxin Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of digoxin with simvastatin may result in elevated plasma digoxin concentrations [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 ) ]. Intervention: Monitor digoxin levels in patients taking digoxin when simvastatin is initiated. ( 2.5 , 7.1 ) Coumarin Anticoagulants : Obtain INR before simvastatin initiation and monitor INR during simvastatin dosage initiation or adjustment. ( 7.2 ) Digoxin : During simvastatin initiation, monitor digoxin levels. Table 2 includes a list of drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly with simvastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors with simvastatin is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ]. Intervention: Concomitant use of cyclosporine, danazol, or gemfibrozil with simvastatin is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ]. For patients taking amiodarone, amlodipine, or ranolazine, do not exceed simvastatin 20 mg daily [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Do not exceed simvastatin 20 mg daily (or simvastatin 40 mg daily for patients who have previously taken an 80 mg daily dosage of simvastatin chronically) while taking lomitapide [see Dosage and Administration (2.1 , 2.5) ]. Intervention: Concomitant use of simvastatin with lipid-modifying dosages of niacin is not recommended in Chinese patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.8) ]. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using fibrates concomitantly with simvastatin outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. 7.2 Simvastatin Effects on Other Drugs Table 3 presents simvastatin’s effect on other drugs and instructions for preventing or managing them. Digoxin Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of digoxin with simvastatin may result in elevated plasma digoxin concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS [ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ). ] Ezetimibe and Simvastatin Tablets Drug Interactions Associated With Increased Risk of Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis ( 2.3 , 2.4 , 4 , 5.1 , 7.1 , 7.2 , 7.3 , 7.8 , 12.3 ) Interacting Agents Prescribing Recommendations Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors, (e.g., itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, erythromycin, clarithromycin, telithromycin, HIV protease inhibitors, boceprevir, telaprevir, nefazodone, cobicistat-containing products), gemfibrozil, cyclosporine, danazol Contraindicated with ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets Niacin (≥1 g/day) For Chinese patients, not recommended with ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets Verapamil, diltiazem, dronedarone Do not exceed 10 mg/10 mg ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets, daily Amiodarone, amlodipine, ranolazine Do not exceed 10 mg/20 mg ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets, daily Lomitapide For patients with HoFH, do not exceed 10 mg/20 mg ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 1 Daptomycin Temporally suspend ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets Grapefruit juice Avoid grapefruit juice 1. For patients with HoFH who have been taking 80 mg simvastatin chronically (e.g., for 12 months or more) without evidence of muscle toxicity, do not exceed 10 mg/40 mg ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets when taking lomitapide. • Coumarin anticoagulants: simvastatin prolongs INR. Achieve stable INR prior to starting ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets. Monitor INR frequently until stable upon initiation or alteration of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablet therapy. ( 7.8 ) • Cholestyramine: Combination decreases exposure of ezetimibe. ( 2.3 , 7.5 ) • Other Lipid-lowering Medications: Use with fenofibrates or lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin increases the risk of adverse skeletal muscle effects. Caution should be used when prescribing with ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets. ( 5.1 , 7.2 , 7.4 ) • Fenofibrates: Combination increases exposure of ezetimibe. If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving ezetimibe and a fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered. ( 7.2 , 7.7 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors, Cyclosporine, or Danazol Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors: The risk of myopathy is increased by reducing the elimination of the simvastatin component of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets. Hence when ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets are used with an inhibitor of CYP3A4 (e.g., as listed below), elevated plasma levels of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitory activity increases the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, particularly with higher doses of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Concomitant use of drugs labeled as having a strong inhibitory effect on CYP3A4 is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ]. If treatment with itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, erythromycin, clarithromycin or telithromycin is unavoidable, therapy with ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets must be suspended during the course of treatment. Cyclosporine or Danazol: The risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis is increased by concomitant administration of cyclosporine or danazol. Therefore, concomitant use of these drugs is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 7.2 Lipid-Lowering Drugs That Can Cause Myopathy When Given Alone Gemfibrozil: Contraindicated with ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. Fenofibrates (e.g., fenofibrate and fenofibric acid): Caution should be used when prescribing with ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.7 ) ]. 7.3 Amiodarone, Dronedarone, Ranolazine, or Calcium Channel Blockers The risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, is increased by concomitant administration of amiodarone, dronedarone, ranolazine, or calcium channel blockers such as verapamil, diltiazem or amlodipine [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Table 6 in Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 7.4 Niacin Cases of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis have been observed with simvastatin coadministered with lipid-modifying doses (≥ 1 g/day niacin) of niacin-containing products. In a clinical trial (median follow-up 3.9 years) involving patients at high risk of cardiovascular disease and with well-controlled LDL-C levels on simvastatin 40 mg/day with or without ezetimibe 10 mg/day, there was no incremental benefit on cardiovascular outcomes with the addition of lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin. Coadministration of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets with lipid-modifying doses (≥1g/day) of niacin is not recommended in Chinese patients. It is unknown if this risk applies to other Asian patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 ) and Use in Specific Populations (8.8 )]. 7.5 Cholestyramine Concomitant cholestyramine administration decreased the mean AUC of total ezetimibe approximately 55%. The incremental LDL-C reduction due to adding ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets to cholestyramine may be reduced by this interaction. 7.6 Digoxin In one study, concomitant administration of digoxin with simvastatin resulted in a slight elevation in plasma digoxin concentrations. Patients taking digoxin should be monitored appropriately when ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets are initiated. 7.7 Fenofibrates (e.g., fenofibrate and fenofibric acid) The safety and effectiveness of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets administered with fibrates have not been established. Because it is known that the risk of myopathy during treatment with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors is increased with concurrent administration of fenofibrates, ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should be administered with caution when used concomitantly with a fenofibrate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. Fenofibrates may increase cholesterol excretion into the bile, leading to cholelithiasis. In a preclinical study in dogs, ezetimibe increased cholesterol in the gallbladder bile [ see Animal Toxicology and/or Pharmacology ( 13.2 ) ]. If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets and a fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered [ see the product labeling for fenofibrate and fenofibric acid ]. 7.8 Coumarin Anticoagulants Simvastatin 20 to 40 mg/day modestly potentiated the effect of coumarin anticoagulants: the prothrombin time, reported as International Normalized Ratio (INR), increased from a baseline of 1.7 to 1.8 and from 2.6 to 3.4 in a normal volunteer study and in a hypercholesterolemic patient study, respectively. With other statins, clinically evident bleeding and/or increased prothrombin time has been reported in a few patients taking coumarin anticoagulants concomitantly. In such patients, prothrombin time should be determined before starting ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets and frequently enough during early therapy to ensure that no significant alteration of prothrombin time occurs. Once a stable prothrombin time has been documented, prothrombin times can be monitored at the intervals usually recommended for patients on coumarin anticoagulants. If the dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets is changed or discontinued, the same procedure should be repeated. Simvastatin therapy has not been associated with bleeding or with changes in prothrombin time in patients not taking anticoagulants. Concomitant administration of ezetimibe (10 mg once daily) had no significant effect on bioavailability of warfarin and prothrombin time in a study of twelve healthy adult males. There have been postmarketing reports of increased INR in patients who had ezetimibe added to warfarin. Most of these patients were also on other medications. The effect of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets on the prothrombin time has not been studied. 7.9 Colchicine Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with simvastatin coadministered with colchicine, and caution should be exercised when prescribing ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets with colchicine. 7.10 Daptomycin Cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported with ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets administered with daptomycin. Both ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets and daptomycin can cause myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when given alone and the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis may be increased by coadministration. Temporarily suspend ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets in patients taking daptomycin [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Do not exceed simvastatin 20 mg daily (or simvastatin 40 mg daily for patients who have previously taken simvastatin 80 mg daily chronically) while taking lomitapide [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2.1 , 2.5 )] . 7. DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug Interactions Associated with Increased Risk of Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis ( 2.3 , 2.4 , 4 , 5.1 , 7.1 , 7.2 , 7.3 , 12.3 ) Interacting Agents Prescribing Recommendations Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, erythromycin, clarithromycin, telithromycin, HIV protease inhibitors, boceprevir, telaprevir, nefazodone cobicistat-containing products), gemfibrozil, cyclosporine, danazol Contraindicated with simvastatin Verapamil, diltiazem, dronedarone Do not exceed 10 mg simvastatin daily Amiodarone, amlodipine, ranolazine Do not exceed 20 mg simvastatin daily Lomitapide For patients with HoFH, do not exceed 20 mg simvastatin daily For patients with HoFH who have been taking 80 mg simvastatin chronically (e.g., for 12 months or more) without evidence of muscle toxicity, do not exceed 40 mg simvastatin when taking lomitapide. Grapefruit juice Avoid grapefruit juice Other Lipid-lowering Medications: Use with other fibrate products or lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin increases the risk of adverse skeletal muscle effects. Caution should be used when prescribing with simvastatin. ( 5.1 , 7.2 , 7.4 ) Coumarin anticoagulants: Concomitant use with simvastatin tablets prolongs INR. Achieve stable INR prior to starting simvastatin tablets. Monitor INR frequently until stable upon initiation or alteration of simvastatin tablets therapy. ( 7.6 ) 7.1 Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors, Cyclosporine, or Danazol Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors: Simvastatin, like several other inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase, is a substrate of CYP3A4. Simvastatin is metabolized by CYP3A4 but has no CYP3A4 inhibitory activity; therefore it is not expected to affect the plasma concentrations of other drugs metabolized by CYP3A4. Elevated plasma levels of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitory activity increases the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, particularly with higher doses of simvastatin. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) .] Concomitant use of drugs labeled as having a strong inhibitory effect on CYP3A4 is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . If treatment with itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, erythromycin, clarithromycin or telithromycin is unavoidable, therapy with simvastatin must be suspended during the course of treatment. Therefore, concomitant use of these drugs is contraindicated. [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.2 Lipid-Lowering Drugs That Can Cause Myopathy When Given Alone Gemfibrozil: Contraindicated with simvastatin [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Other fibrates: Caution should be used when prescribing with simvastatin [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 7.3 Amiodarone, Dronedarone, Ranolazine, or Calcium Channel Blockers The risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, is increased by concomitant administration of amiodarone, dronedarone, ranolazine, or calcium channel blockers such as verapamil, diltiazem, or amlodipine [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Table 3 in Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. In particular, caution should be used when treating Chinese patients with simvastatin doses exceeding 20 mg/day coadministered with lipid-modifying doses of niacin-containing products. Because the risk for myopathy is dose-related, Chinese patients should not receive simvastatin 80 mg coadministered with lipid-modifying doses of niacin-containing products. [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.5 Digoxin In one study, concomitant administration of digoxin with simvastatin resulted in a slight elevation in digoxin concentrations in plasma. Patients taking digoxin should be monitored appropriately when simvastatin is initiated [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.6 Coumarin Anticoagulants In two clinical studies, one in normal volunteers and the other in hypercholesterolemic patients, simvastatin 20 to 40 mg/day modestly potentiated the effect of coumarin anticoagulants: the prothrombin time, reported as International Normalized Ratio (INR), increased from a baseline of 1.7 to 1.8 and from 2.6 to 3.4 in the volunteer and patient studies, respectively. In such patients, prothrombin time should be determined before starting simvastatin and frequently enough during early therapy to ensure that no significant alteration of prothrombin time occurs. If the dose of simvastatin is changed or discontinued, the same procedure should be repeated. 7.7 Colchicine Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with simvastatin coadministered with colchicine, and caution should be exercised when prescribing simvastatin with colchicine.

=== ARIPIPRAZOLE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Aripiprazole is indicated for the treatment of: • Schizophrenia • Irritability Associated with Autistic Disorder • Treatment of Tourette’s Disorder Aripiprazole is an atypical antipsychotic. The oral formulations are indicated for: • Schizophrenia (14.1) • Irritability Associated with Autistic Disorder (14.4) • Treatment of Tourette’s disorder (14.5) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Aripiprazole oral solution is indicated for the treatment of: • Schizophrenia [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] • Acute Treatment of Manic and Mixed Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] • Irritability Associated with Autistic Disorder [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] • Treatment of Tourette’s Disorder [see Clinical Studies (14.5) ] Aripiprazole oral solution is an atypical antipsychotic. The oral formulations are indicated for: • Schizophrenia (14.1) • Acute Treatment of Manic and Mixed Episodes associated with Bipolar I (14.2) • Irritability Associated with Autistic Disorder (14.4) • Treatment of Tourette’s disorder (14.5) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Aripiprazole Oral Solution is indicated for the treatment of: Schizophrenia [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.1) ] Acute Treatment of Manic and Mixed Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.2) ] Adjunctive Treatment of Major Depressive Disorder [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.3) ] Irritability Associated with Autistic Disorder [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.4 ) ] Treatment of Tourette’s Disorder [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.5) ] Aripiprazole is an atypical antipsychotic. The oral formulations are indicated for: Schizophrenia (14.1) Acute Treatment of Manic and Mixed Episodes associated with Bipolar I (14.2) Adjunctive Treatment of Major Depressive Disorder ( 14.3 ) Irritability Associated with Autistic Disorder ( 14.4 ) Treatment of Tourette’s disorder ( 14.5 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Aripiprazole Tablets are indicated for the treatment of: Schizophrenia Irritability Associated with Autistic Disorder Treatment of Tourette’s Disorder Aripiprazole tablets are an atypical antipsychotic. Aripiprazole tablets are indicated for: Schizophrenia. ( 14.1 ) Irritability Associated with Autistic Disorder. ( 14.4 ) Treatment of Tourette’s Disorder. ( 14.5 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Aripiprazole oral tablets are indicated for the treatment of: Schizophrenia Treatment of Tourette’s Disorder Aripiprazole tablets are an atypical antipsychotic. The oral formulations are indicated for: Schizophrenia (14.1) Treatment of Tourette’s disorder (14.5) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Aripiprazole tablets are indicated for the treatment of: • Schizophrenia [ see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.1 ) ] Additional pediatric use information is approved for Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.’s ABILIFY ® (aripiprazole) product. However, due to Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. Aripiprazole is an atypical antipsychotic. The oral formulation is indicated for: • Schizophrenia ( 14.1 ) The oral formulations are indicated for: Schizophrenia ( 14.1 ) Treatment of Tourette’s disorder ( 14.5 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Aripiprazole Tablets are indicated for the treatment of: Schizophrenia Irritability Associated with Autistic Disorder Treatment of Tourette’s Disorder Aripiprazole is an atypical antipsychotic. Aripiprazole is indicated for: Schizophrenia ( 14.1 ) Irritability Associated with Autistic Disorder ( 14.4 ) Treatment of Tourette’s Disorder ( 14.5 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Aripiprazole tablets are indicated for the treatment of: • Schizophrenia [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] Additional pediatric use information is approved for Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.’s ABILIFY ® (aripiprazole) product. The oral formulation is indicated for: • Schizophrenia (14.1)
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia – adults (2.1) 10 to 15 mg/day 10 to 15 mg/day 30 mg/day Schizophrenia – adolescents (2.1) 2 mg/day 10 mg/day 30 mg/day Irritability associated with autistic disorder – pediatric patients (2.4) 2 mg/day 5 to 10 mg/day 15 mg/day Tourette’s disorder – (2.5) Patients <50 kg 2 mg/day 5 mg/day 10 mg/day Patients ≥50 kg 2 mg/day 10 mg/day 20 mg/day •Oral formulations: Administer once daily without regard to meals (2) •Known CYP2D6 poor metabolizers: Half of the usual dose (2.7) 2.1 Schizophrenia Adults The recommended starting and target dose for aripiprazole is 10 or 15 mg/day administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals. Aripiprazole has been systematically evaluated and shown to be effective in a dose range of 10 to 30 mg/day, when administered as the tablet formulation; however, doses higher than 10 or 15 mg/day were not more effective than 10 or 15 mg/day. Dosage increases should generally not be made before 2 weeks, the time needed to achieve steady-state [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] . Maintenance Treatment: Maintenance of efficacy in schizophrenia was demonstrated in a trial involving patients with schizophrenia who had been symptomatically stable on other antipsychotic medications for periods of 3 months or longer. These patients were discontinued from those medications and randomized to either aripiprazole 15 mg/day or placebo, and observed for relapse [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] . Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the continued need for maintenance treatment. Adolescents The recommended target dose of aripiprazole is 10 mg/day. Aripiprazole was studied in adolescent patients 13 to 17 years of age with schizophrenia at daily doses of 10 and 30 mg. The starting daily dose of the tablet formulation in these patients was 2 mg, which was titrated to 5 mg after 2 days and to the target dose of 10 mg after 2 additional days. Subsequent dose increases should be administered in 5 mg increments. The 30 mg/day dose was not shown to be more efficacious than the 10 mg/day dose. Aripiprazole can be administered without regard to meals [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] . Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment. Switching from Other Antipsychotics There are no systematically collected data to specifically address switching patients with schizophrenia from other antipsychotics to aripiprazole or concerning concomitant administration with other antipsychotics. While immediate discontinuation of the previous antipsychotic treatment may be acceptable for some patients with schizophrenia, more gradual discontinuation may be most appropriate for others. In all cases, the period of overlapping antipsychotic administration should be minimized. 2.4 Irritability Associated with Autistic Disorder Pediatric Patients (6 to 17 years) The recommended dosage range for the treatment of pediatric patients with irritability associated with autistic disorder is 5 to 15 mg/day. Dosing should be initiated at 2 mg/day. The dose should be increased to 5 mg/day, with subsequent increases to 10 or 15 mg/day if needed. Dose adjustments of up to 5 mg/day should occur gradually, at intervals of no less than one week [see Clinical Studies (14.4)] . 2.5 Tourette’s Disorder Pediatric Patients (6 to 18 years) The recommended dosage range for Tourette’s Disorder is 5 to 20 mg/day. For patients weighing less than 50 kg, dosing should be initiated at 2 mg/day with a target dose of 5 mg/day after 2 days. The dose can be increased to 10 mg/day in patients who do not achieve optimal control of tics. Dosage adjustments should occur gradually at intervals of no less than one week. For patients weighing 50 kg or more, dosing should be initiated at 2 mg/day for 2 days, and then increased to 5 mg/day for 5 days, with a target dose of 10 mg/day on Day 8. The dose can be increased up to 20 mg/day for patients who do not achieve optimal control of tics. Dosage adjustments should occur gradually in increments of 5 mg/day at intervals of no less than one week [see Clinical Studies (14.5)] . 2.7 Dosage Adjustments for Cytochrome P450 Considerations Dosage adjustments are recommended in patients who are known CYP2D6 poor metabolizers and in patients taking concomitant CYP3A4 inhibitors or CYP2D6 inhibitors or strong CYP3A4 inducers (see Table 2). When the coadministered drug is withdrawn from the combination therapy, aripiprazole dosage should then be adjusted to its original level. When the coadministered CYP3A4 inducer is withdrawn, aripiprazole dosage should be reduced to the original level over 1 to 2 weeks. Patients who may be receiving a combination of strong, moderate, and weak inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 (e.g., a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor or a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor with a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor), the dosing may be reduced to one-quarter (25%) of the usual dose initially and then adjusted to achieve a favorable clinical response. Table 2: Dose Adjustments for Aripiprazole in Patients who are known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers and Patients Taking Concomitant CYP2D6 Inhibitors, 3A4 Inhibitors, and/or CYP3A4 Inducers Factors Dosage Adjustments for Aripiprazole Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers Administer half of usual dose Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers taking concomitant strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 (e.g., quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine) or CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) Administer half of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin) Double usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks 2.8 Dosing of Oral Solution The oral solution can be substituted for tablets on a mg-per-mg basis up to the 25 mg dose level. Patients receiving 30 mg tablets should receive 25 mg of the solution [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia – adults (2.1) 10 to 15 mg/day 10 to 15 mg/day 30 mg/day Schizophrenia – adolescents (2.1) 2 mg/day 10 mg/day 30 mg/day Bipolar mania – adults: monotherapy (2.2) 15 mg/day 15 mg/day 30 mg/day Bipolar mania – adults: adjunct to lithium or valproate (2.2) 10 to 15 mg/day 15 mg/day 30 mg/day Bipolar mania – pediatric patients: monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or valproate (2.2) 2 mg/day 10 mg/day 30 mg/day Irritability associated with autistic disorder – pediatric patients (2.4) 2 mg/day 5 to 10 mg/day 15 mg/day Tourette’s disorder (2.5) Patients < 50 kg 2 mg/day 5 mg/day 10 mg/day Patients ≥ 50 kg 2 mg/day 10 mg/day 20 mg/day • Oral formulations: Administer once daily without regard to meals (2) • Known CYP2D6 poor metabolizers: Half of the usual dose (2.7) 2.1 Schizophrenia Adults The recommended starting and target dose for aripiprazole is 10 or 15 mg/day administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals. Dosage increases should generally not be made before 2 weeks, the time needed to achieve steady-state [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. These patients were discontinued from those medications and randomized to either aripiprazole 15 mg/day or placebo, and observed for relapse [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Aripiprazole was studied in adolescent patients 13 to 17 years of age with schizophrenia at daily doses of 10 mg and 30 mg. Aripiprazole can be administered without regard to meals [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Switching from Other Antipsychotics There are no systematically collected data to specifically address switching patients with schizophrenia from other antipsychotics to aripiprazole oral solution or concerning concomitant administration with other antipsychotics. 2.2 Bipolar I Disorder Acute Treatment of Manic and Mixed Episodes Adults: The recommended starting dose in adults is 15 mg given once daily as monotherapy and 10 mg to 15 mg given once daily as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate. Aripiprazole oral solution can be given without regard to meals. The recommended target dose of aripiprazole oral solution is 15 mg/day, as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate. The dose may be increased to 30 mg/day based on clinical response. The safety of doses above 30 mg/day has not been evaluated in clinical trials. Pediatrics: The recommended starting dose in pediatric patients (10 to 17 years) as monotherapy is 2 mg/day, with titration to 5 mg/day after 2 days, and a target dose of 10 mg/day after 2 additional days. Recommended dosing as adjunctive therapy to lithium or valproate is the same. Subsequent dose increases, if needed, should be administered in 5 mg/day increments. Aripiprazole oral solution can be given without regard to meals [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. Dose adjustments of up to 5 mg/day should occur gradually, at intervals of no less than 1 week [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . Dosage adjustments should occur gradually at intervals of no less than 1 week. Dosage adjustments should occur gradually in increments of 5 mg/day at intervals of no less than 1 week. [See Clinical Studies (14.5) ]. When the coadministered drug is withdrawn from the combination therapy, aripiprazole oral solution dosage should then be adjusted to its original level. When the coadministered CYP3A4 inducer is withdrawn, aripiprazole oral solution dosage should be reduced to the original level over 1 to 2 weeks. Table 2: Dose Adjustments for Aripiprazole Oral Solution in Patients who are known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers and Patients Taking Concomitant CYP2D6 Inhibitors, 3A4 Inhibitors, and/or CYP3A4 Inducers Factors Dosage Adjustments for Aripiprazole Oral Solution Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers Administer half of usual dose Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers taking concomitant strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 (e.g., quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine) or CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) Administer half of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin) Double usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks 2.8 Dosing of Oral Solution The oral solution can be substituted for tablets on a mg-per-mg basis up to the 25 mg dose level. Patients receiving 30 mg tablets should receive 25 mg of the solution [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia – adults (2.1) 10 to 15 mg/day 10 to 15 mg/day 30 mg/day Schizophrenia – adolescents (2.1) 2 mg/day 10 mg/day 30 mg/day Bipolar mania – adults: monotherapy (2.2) 15 mg/day 15 mg/day 30 mg/day Bipolar mania – adults: adjunct to lithium or valproate (2.2) 10 to 15 mg/day 15 mg/day 30 mg/day Bipolar mania – pediatric patients: monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or valproate (2.2) 2 mg/day 10 mg/day 30 mg/day Major Depressive Disorder – Adults adjunct to antidepressants ( 2.3 ) 2 to 5 mg/day 5 to 10 mg/day 15 mg/day Irritability associated with autistic disorder – pediatric patients ( 2.4 ) 2 mg/day 5 to 10 mg/day 15 mg/day Tourette’s – ( 2.5 ) Patients < 50 kg 2 mg/day 5 mg/day 10 mg/day Patients ≥ 50 kg 2 mg/day 10 mg/day 20 mg/day Oral formulations: Administer once daily without regard to meals (2) Known CYP2D6 poor metabolizers: Half of the usual dose (2.7) 2.1 Schizophrenia Adults The recommended starting and target dose for aripiprazole oral solution is 10 or 15 mg/day administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals. Aripiprazole has been systematically evaluated and shown to be effective in a dose range of 10 to 30 mg/day. Dosage increases should generally not be made before 2 weeks, the time needed to achieve steady-state [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.1) ] . Adolescents The recommended target dose of aripiprazole oral solution is 10 mg/day. Aripiprazole oral solution can be administered without regard to meals [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.1) ] . Aripiprazole oral solution can be given without regard to meals [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.2) ] . 2.3 Adjunctive Treatment of Major Depressive Disorder Adults The recommended starting dose for aripiprazole oral solution as adjunctive treatment for patients already taking an antidepressant is 2 to 5 mg/day. The recommended dosage range is 2 to 15 mg/day. Dosage adjustments of up to 5 mg/day should occur gradually, at intervals of no less than 1 week [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.3) ] . Dosage adjustments should occur gradually in increments of 5 mg/day at intervals of no less than 1 week [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.5) ] . Table 2: Dose Adjustments for Aripiprazole Oral Solution in Patients who are known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers and Patients Taking Concomitant CYP2D6 Inhibitors, 3A4 Inhibitors, and/or CYP3A4 Inducers Factors Dosage Adjustments for Aripiprazole Oral Solution Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers Administer half of usual dose Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers taking concomitant strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 (e.g., quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine) or CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) Administer half of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin) Double usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks When adjunctive aripiprazole oral solution is administered to patients with major depressive disorder, aripiprazole oral solution should be administered without dosage adjustment as specified in DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.3) . 2.8 Dosing of Oral Solution The oral solution can be substituted for tablets on a mg-per-mg basis up to the 25 mg dose level. Patients receiving 30 mg tablets should receive 25 mg of the solution [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer once daily without regard to meals ( 2 ) Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia – adults ( 2.1 ) 10 to 15 mg/day 10 to 15 mg/day 30 mg/day Schizophrenia – adolescents ( 2.1 ) 2 mg/day 10 mg/day 30 mg/day Irritability associated with autistic disorder – pediatric patients ( 2.4 ) 2 mg/day 5 to 10 mg/day 15 mg/day Tourette’s Disorder – ( 2.5 ) Patients < 50 kg 2 mg/day 5 mg/day 10 mg/day Patients ≥ 50 kg 2 mg/day 10 mg/day 20 mg/day Known CYP2D6 poor metabolizers: Half of the usual dose. ( 2.6 ) 2.1 Schizophrenia Adults The recommended starting and target dose for aripiprazole tablets is 10 mg/day or 15 mg/day administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals. Aripiprazole tablets have been systematically evaluated and shown to be effective in a dose range of 10 mg/day to 30 mg/day, when administered as the tablet formulation; however, doses higher than 10 mg/day or 15 mg/day were not more effective than 10 mg/day or 15 mg/day. These patients were discontinued from those medications and randomized to either aripiprazole tablets 15 mg/day or placebo, and observed for relapse [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Adolescents The recommended target dose of aripiprazole tablets is 10 mg/day. Aripiprazole tablets can be administered without regard to meals [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Switching from Other Antipsychotics There are no systematically collected data to specifically address switching patients with schizophrenia from other antipsychotics to aripiprazole tablets or concerning concomitant administration with other antipsychotics. 2.4 Irritability Associated with Autistic Disorder Pediatric Patients (6 to 17 years) The recommended dosage range for the treatment of pediatric patients with irritability associated with autistic disorder is 5 mg/day to 15 mg/day. The dose should be increased to 5 mg/day, with subsequent increases to 10 mg/day or 15 mg/day if needed. Dose adjustments of up to 5 mg/day should occur gradually, at intervals of no less than one week [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . 2.5 Tourette’s Disorder Pediatric Patients (6 to 18 years) The recommended dosage range for Tourette’s Disorder is 5 mg/day to 20 mg/day. Dosage adjustments should occur gradually in increments of 5 mg/day at intervals of no less than one week [see Clinical Studies (14.5) ] . 2.6 Dosage Adjustments for Cytochrome P450 Considerations Dosage adjustments are recommended in patients who are known CYP2D6 poor metabolizers and in patients taking concomitant CYP3A4 inhibitors or CYP2D6 inhibitors or strong CYP3A4 inducers (see Table 1). When the co-administered drug is withdrawn from the combination therapy, aripiprazole tablets dosage should then be adjusted to its original level. When the co-administered CYP3A4 inducer is withdrawn, aripiprazole tablets dosage should be reduced to the original level over 1 to 2 weeks. Table 1: Dose Adjustments for Aripiprazole Tablets in Patients who are known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers and Patients Taking Concomitant CYP2D6 Inhibitors, CYP3A4 Inhibitors, and/or CYP3A4 Inducers Factors Dosage Adjustments for Aripiprazole Tablets Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers Administer half of usual dose Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers taking concomitant strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 (e.g., quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine) or CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) Administer half of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin) Double usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia – adults (2.1) 10 to 15 mg/day 10 to 15 mg/day 30 mg/day Schizophrenia – adolescents (2.1) 2 mg/day 10 mg/day 30 mg/day Tourette’s disorder – (2.5) Patients < 50kg 2 mg/day 5 mg/day 10 mg/day Patients > 50kg 2 mg/day 10 mg/day 20 mg/day Oral formulations: Administer once daily without regard to meals (2) Known CYP2D6 poor metabolizers: Half of the usual dose (2.7) 2.1 Schizophrenia Adults The recommended starting and target dose for aripiprazole tablets is 10 or 15 mg/day administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals. Aripiprazole tablets have been systematically evaluated and shown to be effective in a dose range of 10 to 30 mg/day, when administered as the tablet formulation; however, doses higher than 10 or 15 mg/day were not more effective than 10 or 15 mg/day. Dosage increases should generally not be made before 2 weeks, the time needed to achieve steady-state [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. These patients were discontinued from those medications and randomized to either aripiprazole tablets 15 mg/day or placebo, and observed for relapse [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Aripiprazole tablets can be administered without regard to meals [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Dosage adjustments should occur gradually in increments of 5 mg/day at intervals of no less than one week [see Clinical Studies (14.5)]. When the coadministered drug is withdrawn from the combination therapy, aripiprazole tablets dosage should then be adjusted to its original level. When the coadministered CYP3A4 inducer is withdrawn, aripiprazole tablets dosage should be reduced to the original level over 1 to 2 weeks. Table 2: Dose Adjustments for Aripiprazole Tablets in Patients who are known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers and Patients Taking Concomitant CYP2D6 Inhibitors, 3A4 Inhibitors, and/or CYP3A4 Inducers Factors Dosage Adjustments for Aripiprazole Tablets Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers Administer half of usual dose Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers taking concomitant strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 (e.g., quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine) or CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) Administer half of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin) Double usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks 2.8 Dosing of Oral Solution The oral solution can be substituted for tablets on a mg-per-mg basis up to the 25 mg dose level. Patients receiving 30 mg tablets should receive 25 mg of the solution [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia – adults ( 2.1 ) 10 mg /day to 15 mg /day 10 mg /day to 15 mg /day 30 mg /day Schizophrenia – adolescents ( 2.1 ) 2 mg /day 10 mg /day 30 mg /day 2.1 Schizophrenia Adults The recommended starting and target dose for aripiprazole is 10 mg/day or 15 mg/day administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals. Aripiprazole has been systematically evaluated and shown to be effective in a dose range of 10 mg/day to 30 mg/day, when administered as the tablet formulation; however, doses higher than 10 mg/day or 15 mg/day were not more effective than 10 mg/day or 15 mg/day. Dosage increases should generally not be made before 2 weeks, the time needed to achieve steady-state [ see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.1 ) ]. These patients were discontinued from those medications and randomized to either aripiprazole 15 mg/day or placebo, and observed for relapse [ see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.1 ) ]. Aripiprazole can be administered without regard to meals [ see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.1 ) ]. Additional pediatric use information is approved for Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.’s ABILIFY ® (aripiprazole) product. However, due to Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. Table 2: Dose Adjustments for aripiprazole in Patients who are known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers and Patients Taking Concomitant CYP2D6 Inhibitors, 3A4 Inhibitors, and/or CYP3A4 Inducers Factors Dosage Adjustments for Aripiprazole Tablets Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers Administer half of usual dose Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers taking concomitant strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 (e.g., quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine) or CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) Administer half of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin) Double usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks 2.8 Dosing of Oral Solution The oral solution can be substituted for tablets on a mg-per-mg basis up to the 25 mg dose level. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia – adults (2.1) 10 to 15 mg/day 10 to 15 mg/day 30 mg/day Schizophrenia – adolescents (2.1) 2 mg/day 10 mg/day 30 mg/day Tourette’s disorder – (2.5) Patients < 50kg 2 mg/day 5 mg/day 10 mg/day Patients > 50kg 2 mg/day 10 mg/day 20 mg/day • Oral formulations: Administer once daily without regard to meals ( 2 ) • Known CYP2D6 poor metabolizers: Half of the usual dose ( 2.7 ) 2.1 Schizophrenia Adults The recommended starting and target dose for aripiprazole tablets is 10 or 15 mg/day administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals. Dosage increases should generally not be made before 2 weeks, the time needed to achieve steady-state [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . These patients were discontinued from those medications and randomized to either aripiprazole tablets 15 mg/day or placebo, and observed for relapse [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Aripiprazole tablets can be administered without regard to meals [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Table 2: Dose Adjustments for Aripiprazole Tablets in Patients who are known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers and Patients Taking Concomitant CYP2D6 Inhibitors, 3A4 Inhibitors, and/or CYP3A4 Inducers Factors Dosage Adjustments for Aripiprazole Tablets Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers Administer half of usual dose Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers taking concomitant strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 (e.g., quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine) or CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) Administer half of usual dose StrongCYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin) Double usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks 2.8 Dosing of Oral Solution The oral solution can be substituted for tablets on a mg-per-mg basis up to the 25 mg dose level. Patients receiving 30 mg tablets should receive 25 mg of the solution [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer once daily without regard to meals ( 2 ) Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia – adults ( 2.1 ) 10 to 15 mg/day 10 to 15 mg/day 30 mg/day Schizophrenia – adolescents ( 2.1 ) 2 mg/day 10 mg/day 30 mg/day Irritability associated with autistic disorder – pediatric patients ( 2.4 ) 2 mg/day 5 to 10 mg/day 15 mg/day Tourette’s Disorder – ( 2.5 ) Patients <50 kg 2 mg/day 5 mg/day 10 mg/day Patients ≥50 kg 2 mg/day 10 mg/day 20 mg/day Known CYP2D6 poor metabolizers: Half of the usual dose ( 2.6 ) 2.1 Schizophrenia Adults The recommended starting and target dose for aripiprazole is 10 or 15 mg/day administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals. These patients were discontinued from those medications and randomized to either aripiprazole 15 mg/day or placebo, and observed for relapse [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Aripiprazole can be administered without regard to meals [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Dose adjustments of up to 5 mg/day should occur gradually, at intervals of no less than one week [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )]. Dosage adjustments should occur gradually in increments of 5 mg/day at intervals of no less than one week [See Clinical Studies ( 14.5 )]. Table 1: Dose Adjustments for Aripiprazole in Patients who are known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers and Patients Taking Concomitant CYP2D6 Inhibitors, CYP3A4 Inhibitors, and/or CYP3A4 Inducers Factors Dosage Adjustments for Aripiprazole Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers Administer half of usual dose Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers taking concomitant strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 (e.g., quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine) or CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) Administer half of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin) Double usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia – adults ( 2.1 ) 10 to 15 mg/day 10 to 15 mg/day 30 mg/day Schizophrenia – adolescents ( 2.1 ) 2 mg/day 10 mg/day 30 mg/day • Oral formulation: Administer once daily without regard to meals ( 2 ) • Known CYP2D6 poor metabolizers: Half of the usual dose ( 2.7 ) 2.1 Schizophrenia Adults The recommended starting and target dose for aripiprazole tablets is 10 or 15 mg/day administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Aripiprazole is contraindicated in patients with a history of a hypersensitivity reaction to aripiprazole. Reactions have ranged from pruritus/urticaria to anaphylaxis [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. • Known hypersensitivity to aripiprazole (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Aripiprazole oral solution is contraindicated in patients with a history of a hypersensitivity reaction to aripiprazole. Reactions have ranged from pruritus/urticaria to anaphylaxis [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. • Known hypersensitivity to aripiprazole oral solution (4) Reactions have ranged from pruritus/urticaria to anaphylaxis [see ADVERSE REACTIONS (6.2) ] . Known hypersensitivity to aripiprazole (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Aripiprazole tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of a hypersensitivity reaction to aripiprazole. Known hypersensitivity to aripiprazole. ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to aripiprazole tablets (4) Reactions have ranged from pruritus/urticaria to anaphylaxis [ see ADVERSE REACTIONS ( 6.2 ) ]. Known hypersensitivity to aripiprazole ( 4 ) Reactions have ranged from pruritus/urticaria to anaphylaxis [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )]. Known hypersensititivity to aripiprazole tablets (4) Reactions have ranged from pruritus/urticaria to anaphylaxis [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . • Known hypersensitivity to aripiprazole tablets (4)
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Dosage adjustment due to drug interactions (7.1): Factors Dosage Adjustments for Aripiprazole Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers Administer half of usual dose Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer half of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP3A4 inducers Double usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Aripiprazole Table 25: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Aripiprazole: Concomitant Drug Name or Drug Class Clinical Rationale Clinical Recommendation Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) or strong CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine) The concomitant use of aripiprazole with strong CYP 3A4 or CYP2D6 inhibitors increased the exposure of aripiprazole compared to the use of aripiprazole alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. With concomitant use of aripiprazole with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor or CYP2D6 inhibitor, reduce the aripiprazole dosage [see Dosage and Administration (2.7)]. Strong CYP3A4 Inducers (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin) The concomitant use of aripiprazole and carbamazepine decreased the exposure of aripiprazole compared to the use of aripiprazole alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. With concomitant use of aripiprazole with a strong CYP3A4 inducer, consider increasing the aripiprazole dosage [see Dosage and Administration (2.7)]. Antihypertensive Drugs Due to its alpha adrenergic antagonism, aripiprazole has the potential to enhance the effect of certain antihypertensive agents. Monitor blood pressure and adjust dose accordingly [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. Benzodiazepines (e.g., lorazepam) The intensity of sedation was greater with the combination of oral aripiprazole and lorazepam as compared to that observed with aripiprazole alone. The orthostatic hypotension observed was greater with the combination as compared to that observed with lorazepam alone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Monitor sedation and blood pressure. Adjust dose accordingly. 7.2 Drugs Having No Clinically Important Interactions with Aripiprazole Based on pharmacokinetic studies, no dosage adjustment of aripiprazole is required when administered concomitantly with famotidine, valproate, lithium, lorazepam. In addition, no dosage adjustment is necessary for substrates of CYP2D6 (e.g., dextromethorphan, fluoxetine, paroxetine, or venlafaxine), CYP2C9 (e.g., warfarin), CYP2C19 (e.g., omeprazole, warfarin, escitalopram), or CYP3A4 (e.g., dextromethorphan) when co-administered with aripiprazole. Additionally, no dosage adjustment is necessary for valproate, lithium, lamotrigine, lorazepam, or sertraline when co-administered with aripiprazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Dosage adjustment due to drug interactions (7.1) : Factors Dosage Adjustments for Aripiprazole oral solution Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers Administer half of usual dose Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer half of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP3A4 inducers Double usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Aripiprazole Table 25: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Aripiprazole: Concomitant Drug Name or Drug Class Clinical Rationale Clinical Recommendation Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) or strong CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine) The concomitant use of aripiprazole with strong CYP3A4 or CYP2D6 inhibitors increased the exposure of aripiprazole compared to the use of aripiprazole alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. With concomitant use of aripiprazole with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor or CYP2D6 inhibitor, reduce the aripiprazole dosage [see Dosage and Administration (2.7)] . Strong CYP3A4 Inducers (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin) The concomitant use of aripiprazole and carbamazepine decreased the exposure of aripiprazole compared to the use of aripiprazole alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. With concomitant use of aripiprazole with a strong CYP3A4 inducer, consider increasing the aripiprazole dosage [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) ]. Monitor blood pressure and adjust dose accordingly [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. The orthostatic hypotension observed was greater with the combination as compared to that observed with lorazepam alone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Monitor sedation and blood pressure. Additionally, no dosage adjustment is necessary for valproate, lithium, lamotrigine, lorazepam, or sertraline when co-administered with aripiprazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Dosage adjustment due to drug interactions (7.1) : Factors Dosage Adjustments for Aripiprazole Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers Administer half of usual dose Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer half of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP3A4 inducers Double usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Aripiprazole Table 25: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Aripiprazole: Concomitant Drug Name or Drug Class Clinical Rationale Clinical Recommendation Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) or strong CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine) The concomitant use of aripiprazole with strong CYP3A4 or CYP2D6 inhibitors increased the exposure of aripiprazole compared to the use of aripiprazole alone [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3) ]. With concomitant use of aripiprazole with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor or CYP2D6 inhibitor, reduce the aripiprazole dosage [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.7) ] . Strong CYP3A4 Inducers (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin) The concomitant use of aripiprazole and carbamazepine decreased the exposure of aripiprazole compared to the use of aripiprazole alone [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3) ] . With concomitant use of aripiprazole with a strong CYP3A4 inducer, consider increasing the aripiprazole dosage [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.7) ] . Monitor blood pressure and adjust dose accordingly [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.8) ] . The orthostatic hypotension observed was greater with the combination as compared to that observed with lorazepam alone [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.7) ] Monitor sedation and blood pressure. Additionally, no dosage adjustment is necessary for valproate, lithium, lamotrigine, lorazepam, or sertraline when co-administered with aripiprazole. [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Dosage adjustment due to drug interactions ( 7.1 ): Factors Dosage Adjustments for Aripiprazole Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers Administer half of usual dose Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer half of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP3A4 inducers Double usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Aripiprazole Table 22: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Aripiprazole: Concomitant Drug Name or Drug Class Clinical Rationale Clinical Recommendation Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) or strong CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine) Concomitant use of aripiprazole with strong CYP3A4 or CYP2D6 inhibitors increased the exposure of aripiprazole compared to the use of aripiprazole alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Reduce the aripiprazole dosage when administered concomitantly with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor or a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] . Strong CYP3A4 Inducers (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin) Concomitant use of aripiprazole and carbamazepine decreased the exposure of aripiprazole compared to the use of aripiprazole alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Increase the aripiprazole dosage when administered concomitantly with a strong CYP3A4 inducer [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] . Antihypertensive Drugs Due to its alpha 1 -adrenergic antagonism, aripiprazole has the potential to enhance the effect of certain antihypertensive agents. 7.2 Drugs Having No Clinically Important Interactions with Aripiprazole Based on pharmacokinetic studies, no dosage adjustment of aripiprazole is required when administered concomitantly with famotidine, valproate, lithium, and lorazepam. Additionally, no dosage adjustment is necessary for valproate, lithium, lamotrigine, lorazepam, or sertraline when co-administered with aripiprazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Dosage adjustment due to drug interactions (7.1): Factors Dosage Adjustments for Aripiprazole Tablets Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers Administer half of usual dose Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer half of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP3A4 inducers Double usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Aripiprazole Table 25: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Aripiprazole : tab 25 7.2 Drugs Having No Clinically Important Interactions with Aripiprazole Based on pharmacokinetic studies, no dosage adjustment of aripiprazole is required when administered concomitantly with famotidine, valproate, lithium, lorazepam. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Dosage adjustment due to drug interactions ( 7.1 ): Factors Dosage Adjustments for Aripirazole Tablets Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers Administer half of usual dose Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer half of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP3A4 inducers Double usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Aripiprazole Table 25: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Aripiprazole: Concomitant Drug Name or Drug Class Clinical Rationale Clinical Recommendation Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) or strong CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine) The concomitant use of aripiprazole with strong CYP 3A4 or CYP2D6 inhibitors increased the exposure of aripiprazole compared to the use of aripiprazole alone [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. With concomitant use of aripiprazole with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor or CYP2D6 inhibitor, reduce the aripiprazole dosage [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2.7 )]. Strong CYP3A4 Inducers (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin) The concomitant use of aripiprazole and carbamazepine decreased the exposure of aripiprazole compared to the use of aripiprazole alone [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. With concomitant use of aripiprazole with a strong CYP3A4 inducer, consider increasing the aripiprazole dosage [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2.7 )]. Monitor blood pressure and adjust dose accordingly [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.8 )]. The orthostatic hypotension observed was greater with the combination as compared to that observed with lorazepam alone [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] Monitor sedation and blood pressure. [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 ) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Dosage adjustment due to drug interactions ( 7.1 ) : Factors Dosage Adjustments for Aripiprazole Tablets Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers Administer half of usual dose Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer half of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP3A4 inducers Double usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Aripiprazole Tablets Table 25: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Aripiprazole: Concomitant Drug Name or Drug Class Clinical Rationale Clinical Recommendation Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) or strong CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine) The concomitant use of aripiprazole with strong CYP 3A4 or CYP2D6 inhibitors increased the exposure of aripiprazole compared to the use of aripiprazole alone [see ClinicalPharmacology ( 12.3 )]. With concomitant use of aripiprazole with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor or CYP2D6 inhibitor, reduce the aripiprazole dosage [see Dosageand Administration( 2.7 )]. With concomitant use of aripiprazole with a strong CYP3A4 inducer, consider increasing the aripiprazole dosage [see Dosage and Administration( 2.7 )]. Monitor blood pressure and adjust dose accordingly [seeWarnings and Precautions( 5.8 )]. The orthostatic hypotension observed was greater with the combination as compared to that observed with lorazepam alone [seeWarningsandPrecautions ( 5.8 )]. 7.2 Drugs Having No Clinically Important Interactions with Aripiprazole Tablets Based on pharmacokinetic studies, no dosage adjustment of aripiprazole is required when administered concomitantly with famotidine, valproate, lithium, lorazepam. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Dosage adjustment due to drug interactions ( 7.1 ): Factors Dosage Adjustments for Aripiprazole Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers Administer half of usual dose Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer half of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP3A4 inducers Double usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Aripiprazole Table 22: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Aripiprazole: Concomitant Drug Name or Drug Class Clinical Rationale Clinical Recommendation Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) or strong CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine) Concomitant use of aripiprazole with strong CYP3A4 or CYP2D6 inhibitors increased the exposure of aripiprazole compared to the use of aripiprazole alone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Reduce the aripiprazole dosage when administered concomitantly with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor or a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )]. Strong CYP3A4 Inducers (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin) The concomitant use of aripiprazole and carbamazepine decreased the exposure of aripiprazole compared to the use of aripiprazole alone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Increase the aripiprazole dosage when administered concomitantly with a strong CYP3A4 inducer [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )]. Monitor blood pressure and adjust dose accordingly [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] . The orthostatic hypotension observed was greater with the combination as compared to that observed with lorazepam alone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. In addition, no dosage adjustment is necessary for substrates of CYP2D6 (e.g., dextromethorphan, fluoxetine, paroxetine, or venlafaxine), CYP2C9 (e.g., warfarin), CYP2C19 (e.g., omeprazole, warfarin, escitalopram), or CYP3A4 (e.g., dextromethorphan) when coadministered with aripiprazole. Additionally, no dosage adjustment is necessary for valproate, lithium, lamotrigine, lorazepam, or sertraline when coadministered with aripiprazole [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Dosage adjustment due to drug interactions ( 7.1 ): Factors Dosage Adjustments for Aripiprazole Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers Administer half of usual dose Known CYP2D6 Poor Metabolizers and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 or CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer half of usual dose Strong CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors Administer a quarter of usual dose Strong CYP3A4 inducers Double usual dose over 1 to 2 weeks 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Aripiprazole Table 25: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Aripiprazole: Concomitant Drug Name or Drug Class Clinical Rationale Clinical Recommendation Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin) or strong CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine) The concomitant use of aripiprazole with strong CYP 3A4 or CYP2D6 inhibitors increased the exposure of aripiprazole compared to the use of aripiprazole alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. With concomitant use of aripiprazole with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor or CYP2D6 inhibitor, reduce the aripiprazole dosage [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) ]. 7.2 Drugs Having No Clinically Important Interactions with Aripiprazole Based on pharmacokinetic studies, no dosage adjustment of aripiprazole is required when administered concomitantly with famotidine, valproate, lorazepam. In addition, no dosage adjustment is necessary for substrates of CYP2D6 (e.g., dextromethorphan, fluoxetine, paroxetine, or venlafaxine), CYP2C9 (e.g., warfarin), CYP2C19 (e.g., omeprazole, warfarin), or CYP3A4 (e.g., dextromethorphan) when co-administered with aripiprazole. Additionally, no dosage adjustment is necessary for valproate, lamotrigine, lorazepam, or sertraline when co-administered with aripiprazole. [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ].

=== GLIPIZIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Glipizide Tablets USP are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Glipizide tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Glipizide extended-release tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Glipizide extended-release tablet is a sulfonylurea indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus Limitations of Use: Not for treatment of type 1 diabetes or diabetic ketoacidosis 1.1 Limitations of Use Glipizide extended-release tablets are not recommended for the treatment of type 1 diabetes mellitus or diabetic ketoacidosis. 1.1 Limitations of Use Glipizide extended-release tablets are not recommended for the treatment of type 1 diabetes mellitus or diabetic ketoacidosis. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets USP are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Glipizide extended-release tablets is a sulfonylurea indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus Limitations of Use: Not for treatment of type 1 diabetes or diabetic ketoacidosis 1.1 Limitations of Use Glipizide extended-release tablets are not recommended for the treatment of type 1 diabetes mellitus or diabetic ketoacidosis.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION There is no fixed dosage regimen for the management of diabetes mellitus with glipizide or any other hypoglycemic agent. In addition to the usual monitoring of urinary glucose, the patient’s blood glucose must also be monitored periodically to determine the minimum effective dose for the patient; to detect primary failure, i.e., inadequate lowering of blood glucose at the maximum recommended dose of medication; and to detect secondary failure, i.e., loss of an adequate blood-glucose-lowering response after an initial period of effectiveness. Glycosylated hemoglobin levels may also be of value in monitoring the patient’s response to therapy. Short-term administration of glipizide may be sufficient during periods of transient loss of control in patients usually controlled well on diet. In general, glipizide should be given approximately 30 minutes before a meal to achieve the greatest reduction in postprandial hyperglycemia. Initial Dose The recommended starting dose is 5 mg, given before breakfast. Geriatric patients or those with liver disease may be started on 2.5 mg. Titration Dosage adjustments should ordinarily be in increments of 2.5 to 5 mg, as determined by blood glucose response. At least several days should elapse between titration steps. If response to a single dose is not satisfactory, dividing that dose may prove effective. The maximum recommended once daily dose is 15 mg. Doses above 15 mg should ordinarily be divided and given before meals of adequate caloric content. The maximum recommended total daily dose is 40 mg. Maintenance Some patients may be effectively controlled on a once-a-day regimen, while others show better response with divided dosing. Total daily doses above 15 mg should ordinarily be divided. Total daily doses above 30 mg have been safely given on a b.i.d. basis to long-term patients. In elderly patients, debilitated or malnourished patients, and patients with impaired renal or hepatic function, the initial and maintenance dosing should be conservative to avoid hypoglycemic reactions (see PRECAUTIONS ). Patients Receiving Insulin As with other sulfonylurea-class hypoglycemics, many stable non-insulin-dependent diabetic patients receiving insulin may be safely placed on glipizide. When transferring patients from insulin to glipizide, the following general guidelines should be considered: For patients whose daily insulin requirement is 20 units or less, insulin may be discontinued and glipizide therapy may begin at usual dosages. Several days should elapse between glipizide titration steps. For patients whose daily insulin requirement is greater than 20 units, the insulin dose should be reduced by 50% and glipizide therapy may begin at usual dosages. Subsequent reductions in insulin dosage should depend on individual patient response. During the insulin withdrawal period, the patient should test urine samples for sugar and ketone bodies at least three times daily. Patients should be instructed to contact the prescriber immediately if these tests are abnormal. In some cases, especially when patient has been receiving greater than 40 units of insulin daily, it may be advisable to consider hospitalization during the transition period. Patients Receiving Other Oral Hypoglycemic Agents As with other sulfonylurea-class hypoglycemics, no transition period is necessary when transferring patients to glipizide. Patients should be observed carefully (1 to 2 weeks) for hypoglycemia when being transferred from longer half-life sulfonylureas (e.g., chlorpropamide) to glipizide due to potential overlapping of drug effect. When colesevelam is co-administered with glipizide ER, maximum plasma concentration and total exposure to glipizide is reduced. Therefore, glipizide tablets should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Initial Dose: The recommended starting dose is 5 mg, given before breakfast. Titration: Dosage adjustments should ordinarily be in increments of 2.5 to 5 mg, as determined by blood glucose response. Maintenance: Some patients may be effectively controlled on a once-a-day regimen, while others show better response with divided dosing. In elderly patients, debilitated or malnourished patients, and patients with impaired renal or hepatic function, the initial and maintenance dosing should be conservative to avoid hypoglycemic reactions (see Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. section). Patients Receiving Insulin: As with other sulfonylurea-class hypoglycemics, many stable non-insulin- dependent diabetic patients receiving insulin may be safely placed on glipizide. Patients Receiving Other Oral Hypoglycemic Agents: As with other sulfonylurea-class hypoglycemics, no transition period is necessary when transferring patients to glipizide. When colesevelam is coadministered with glipizide ER, maximum plasma concentration and total exposure to glipizide is reduced. Therefore, glipizide should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended starting dose is 5 mg once daily. Dose adjustment can be made based on the patient’s glycemic control. Maximum recommended dose is 20 mg once daily ( 2.1 ). Administer with breakfast or the first meal of the day ( 2.1 ). For combination therapy with other blood-glucose-lowering agents, initiate the agent at the lowest recommended dose, and observe patients for hypoglycemia ( 2.2 ). 2.1 Recommended Dosing Glipizide extended-release tablets should be administered orally with breakfast or the first main meal of the day. The recommended starting dose of glipizide extended-release tablets is 5 mg once daily. Start patients at increased risk for hypoglycemia (e.g. the elderly or patients with hepatic insufficiency) at 2.5 mg [see Use in Specific Population (8.5 , 8.6) ] . Dosage adjustment can be made based on the patient’s glycemic control. The maximum recommended dose is 20 mg once daily. Patients receiving immediate release glipizide may be switched to glipizide extended-release tablets once daily at the nearest equivalent total daily dose. 2.2 Use with Other Glucose Lowering Agents When adding glipizide extended-release tablets to other anti-diabetic drugs, initiate glipizide extended-release tablets at 5 mg once daily. Start patients at increased risk for hypoglycemia at a lower dose. When colesevelam is coadministered with glipizide extended-release tablets, maximum plasma concentration and total exposure to glipizide is reduced. Therefore, glipizide extended-release tablets should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION General Considerations Dosage of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets must be individualized on the basis of both effectiveness and tolerance while not exceeding the maximum recommended daily dose of 20 mg glipizide/2000 mg metformin. Glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets should be given with meals and should be initiated at a low dose, with gradual dose escalation as described below, in order to avoid hypoglycemia (largely due to glipizide), reduce GI side effects (largely due to metformin), and permit determination of the minimum effective dose for adequate control of blood glucose for the individual patient. With initial treatment and during dose titration, appropriate blood glucose monitoring should be used to determine the therapeutic response to glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets and to identify the minimum effective dose for the patient. Thereafter, HbA 1c should be measured at intervals of approximately 3 months to assess the effectiveness of therapy. The therapeutic goal in all patients with type 2 diabetes is to decrease FPG, PPG, and HbA 1c to normal or as near normal as possible. Ideally, the response to therapy should be evaluated using HbA 1c , which is a better indicator of long-term glycemic control than FPG alone. No studies have been performed specifically examining the safety and efficacy of switching to glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablet therapy in patients taking concomitant glipizide (or other sulfonylurea) plus metformin. Changes in glycemic control may occur in such patients, with either hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia possible. Any change in therapy of type 2 diabetes should be undertaken with care and appropriate monitoring. Therefore, glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Glipizide and Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets in Patients with Inadequate Glycemic Control on Diet and Exercise Alone For patients with type 2 diabetes whose hyperglycemia cannot be satisfactorily managed with diet and exercise alone, the recommended starting dose of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets is 2.5 mg/250 mg once a day with a meal. For patients whose FPG is 280 mg/dL to 320 mg/dL a starting dose of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets, 2.5 mg/500 mg twice daily should be considered. The efficacy of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets in patients whose FPG exceeds 320 mg/dL has not been established. Dosage increases to achieve adequate glycemic control should be made in increments of 1 tablet per day every 2 weeks up to maximum of 10 mg/1000 mg or 10 mg/2000 mg glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets per day given in divided doses. In clinical trials of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets as initial therapy, there was no experience with total daily doses > 10 mg/2000 mg per day. Glipizide and Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets in Patients with Inadequate Glycemic Control on a Sulfonylurea and/or Metformin For patients not adequately controlled on either glipizide (or another sulfonylurea) or metformin alone, the recommended starting dose of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets is 2.5 mg/500 mg or 5 mg/500 mg twice daily with the morning and evening meals. In order to avoid hypoglycemia, the starting dose of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets should not exceed the daily doses of glipizide or metformin already being taken. The daily dose should be titrated in increments of no more than 5 mg/500 mg up to the minimum effective dose to achieve adequate control of blood glucose or to a maximum dose of 20 mg/2000 mg per day. Patients previously treated with combination therapy of glipizide (or another sulfonylurea) plus metformin may be switched to glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets, 2.5 mg/500 mg or 5 mg/500 mg; the starting dose should not exceed the daily dose of glipizide (or equivalent dose of another sulfonylurea) and metformin already being taken. The decision to switch to the nearest equivalent dose or to titrate should be based on clinical judgment. Patients should be monitored closely for signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia following such a switch and the dose of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets should be titrated as described above to achieve adequate control of blood glucose. Recommendations for Use in Renal Impairment Assess renal function prior to initiation of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets and periodically thereafter. Glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 . Initiation of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 45 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 is not recommended. In patients taking glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets whose eGFR later falls below 45 mL/min/1.73 m 2 , assess the benefit risk of continuing therapy. Discontinue glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets if the patient’s eGFR later falls below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 . (See WARNINGS .) Discontinuation for Iodinated Contrast Imaging Procedure Discontinue glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets at the time of, or prior to, an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ; in patients with a history of liver disease, alcoholism or heart failure; or in patients who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Re-evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure; restart glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets if renal function is stable. Specific Patient Populations Glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets are not recommended for use during pregnancy or for use in pediatric patients. The initial and maintenance dosing of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets should be conservative in patients with advanced age, due to the potential for decreased renal function in this population. Any dosage adjustment requires a careful assessment of renal function. Generally, elderly, debilitated, and malnourished patients should not be titrated to the maximum dose of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets to avoid the risk of hypoglycemia. Monitoring of renal function is necessary to aid in prevention of metformin-associated lactic acidosis, particularly in the elderly. (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .) In addition to the usual monitoring of urinary glucose, the patient's blood glucose must also be monitored periodically to determine the minimum effective dose for the patient; to detect primary failure, i.e., inadequate lowering of blood glucose at the maximum recommended dose of medication; and to detect secondary failure, i.e., loss of an adequate blood-glucose-lowering response after an initial period of effectiveness. Glycosylated hemoglobin levels may also be of value in monitoring the patient's response to therapy. Short-term administration of glipizide tablets may be sufficient during periods of transient loss of control in patients usually controlled well on diet. In general, glipizide tablets should be given approximately 30 minutes before a meal to achieve the greatest reduction in postprandial hyperglycemia. Titration: Dosage adjustments should ordinarily be in increments of 2.5–5 mg, as determined by blood glucose response. In elderly patients, debilitated or malnourished patients, and patients with impaired renal or hepatic function, the initial and maintenance dosing should be conservative to avoid hypoglycemic reactions (see PRECAUTIONS section). Patients Receiving Insulin: As with other sulfonylurea-class hypoglycemics, many stable non-insulin-dependent diabetic patients receiving insulin may be safely placed on Glipizide tablets. When transferring patients from insulin to glipizide tablets, the following general guidelines should be considered: For patients whose daily insulin requirement is 20 units or less, insulin may be discontinued and glipizide therapy may begin at usual dosages. Patients should be observed carefully (1–2 weeks) for hypoglycemia when being transferred from longer half-life sulfonylureas (e.g., chlorpropamide) to glipizide due to potential overlapping of drug effect. Start patients at increased risk for hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly or patients with hepatic insufficiency) at 2.5 mg [see Use in Specific Population (8.5, 8.6) ] .
Warnings: WARNINGS SPECIAL WARNING ON INCREASED RISK OF CARDIOVASCULAR MORTALITY The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups ( Diabetes , 19, supp. 2:747-830, 1970). UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2½ times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glipizide and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. WARNINGS SPECIAL WARNING ON INCREASED RISK OF CARDIOVASCULAR MORTALITY: The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. 2: 747-830, 1970). UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2 1/2 times that of patients treated with diet alone. WARNINGS WARNING: LACTIC ACIDOSIS Postmarketing cases of metformin-associated lactic acidosis have resulted in death, hypothermia, hypotension, and resistant bradyarrhythmias. The onset of metformin-associated lactic acidosis is often subtle, accompanied only by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise, myalgias, respiratory distress, somnolence, and abdominal pain. Metformin-associated lactic acidosis was characterized by elevated blood lactate levels (> 5 mmol/Liter), anion gap acidosis (without evidence of ketonuria or ketonemia), an increased lactate/pyruvate ratio; and metformin plasma levels generally > 5 mcg/mL [see PRECAUTIONS]. Risk factors for metformin-associated lactic acidosis include renal impairment, concomitant use of certain drugs (e.g., carbonic anhydrase inhibitors such as topiramate), age 65 years old or greater, having a radiological study with contrast, surgery and other procedures, hypoxic states (e.g., acute congestive heart failure), excessive alcohol intake, and hepatic impairment. Steps to reduce the risk of and manage metformin-associated lactic acidosis in these high risk groups are provided [see PRECAUTIONS]. If metformin-associated lactic acidosis is suspected, immediately discontinue glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets and institute general supportive measures in a hospital setting. Prompt hemodialysis is recommended [see PRECAUTIONS]. SPECIAL WARNING ON INCREASED RISK OF CARDIOVASCULAR MORTALITY The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to 1 of 4 treatment groups ( Diabetes 19 (Suppl. 2):747-830, 1970). The patient should be informed of the potential risks and benefits of glipizide and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only 1 drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 2: 747–830, 1970). The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups (Diabetes, 19, supp. UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2 1 / 2 times that of patients treated with diet alone.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Glipizide is contraindicated in patients with: 1. Known hypersensitivity to the drug. 2. Type 1 diabetes mellitus, diabetic ketoacidosis, with or without coma. This condition should be treated with insulin. CONTRAINDICATIONS Glipizide tablets are contraindicated in patients with: 1. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Glipizide is contraindicated in patients with: Known hypersensitivity to glipizide or any of the product’s ingredients. Hypersensitivity to sulfonamide derivatives. Known hypersensitivity to glipizide or any of the product’s ingredients ( 4 ). Hypersensitivity to sulfonamide derivatives ( 4 ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Severe renal impairment (eGFR below 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ). Known hypersensitivity to glipizide or metformin hydrochloride. Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis, including diabetic ketoacidosis, with or without coma. Diabetic ketoacidosis should be treated with insulin. CONTRAINDICATIONS Glipizide tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Known hypersensitivity to the drug. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Glipizide is contraindicated in patients with: • Known hypersensitivity to glipizide or any of the product’s ingredients. • Hypersensitivity to sulfonamide derivatives.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions The hypoglycemic action of sulfonylureas may be potentiated by certain drugs including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, some azoles, and other drugs that are highly protein bound, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, probenecid, coumarins, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, quinolones and beta-adrenergic blocking agents. When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving glipizide, the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving glipizide, the patient should be observed closely for loss of control. In vitro binding studies with human serum proteins indicate that glipizide binds differently than tolbutamide and does not interact with salicylate or dicumarol. However, caution must be exercised in extrapolating these findings to the clinical situation and in the use of glipizide with these drugs. Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of control. These drugs include the thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid products, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics, calcium channel blocking drugs, and isoniazid. When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving glipizide, the patient should be closely observed for loss of control. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving glipizide, the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia. A potential interaction between oral miconazole and oral hypoglycemic agents leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with the intravenous, topical, or vaginal preparations of miconazole is not known. The effect of concomitant administration of DIFLUCAN ® (fluconazole) and glipizide has been demonstrated in a placebo-controlled crossover study in normal volunteers. All subjects received glipizide alone and following treatment with 100 mg of DIFLUCAN as a single daily oral dose for 7 days. The mean percentage increase in the glipizide AUC after fluconazole administration was 56.9% (range: 35 to 81). In studies assessing the effect of colesevelam on the pharmacokinetics of glipizide ER in healthy volunteers, reductions in glipizide AUC 0-∞ and C max of 12% and 13%, respectively were observed when colesevelam was co-administered with glipizide ER. When glipizide ER was administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam, there was no significant change in glipizide AUC 0-∞ or C max , -4% and 0%, respectively. Therefore, glipizide should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam to ensure that colesevelam does not reduce the absorption of glipizide. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glipizide extended-release tablets dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose (7.1). • Miconazole: Monitor patients closely. Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glipizide tablets and oral miconazole are used concomitantly ( 7.2 , 12.3 ). • Fluconazole: Monitor patients closely. An increase in glipizide tablets AUC was seen after fluconazole administration ( 7.3 , 12.3 ). • Colesevelam: Glipizide extended-release tablets should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam (7.4 , 12.3 ). 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glipizide extended-release tablets dose adjustment and close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medication that may increase the glucose lowering effect of glipizide extended-release tablets, increase the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: antidiabetic agents, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blocking agents, disopyramide, fibrates, fluoxetine, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, pentoxifylline, pramlintide, propoxyphene, salicylates, somatostatin analogs (e.g., octreotide), sulfonamide antibiotics, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents, chloramphenicol, probenecid, coumarins, voriconazole, H2 receptor antagonists, and quinolones. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glipizide extended-release tablets, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are discontinued from a patient receiving glipizide extended-release tablets, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medication that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of glipizide extended-release tablets, leading to worsening glycemic control: atypical antipsychotics (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), corticosteroids, danazol, diuretics, estrogens, glucagon, isoniazid, niacin, oral contraceptives, phenothiazines, progestogens (e.g., in oral contraceptives), protease inhibitors, somatropin, sympathomimetic agents (e.g., albuterol, epinephrine, terbutaline), thyroid hormones, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, and calcium channel blocking drugs. When such drugs are administered to patients receiving glipizide extended-release tablets, monitor the patients closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are discontinued from patients receiving glipizide extended-release tablets, monitor the patients closely for hypoglycemia. Alcohol, beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of the glucose-lowering effect. Increased frequency of monitoring may be required when glipizide extended-release tablet is co-administered with these drugs. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.2 Miconazole Monitor patients closely for hypoglycemia when glipizide extended-release tablet is co-administered with miconazole. A potential interaction between oral miconazole and oral hypoglycemic agents leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported [see Clinical Phamacology (12.3 )]. 7.3 Fluconazole Monitor patients closely for hypoglycemia when glipizide extended-release tablet is co-administered with fluconazole. Concomitant treatment with fluconazole increases plasma concentrations of glipizide, which may lead to hypoglycemia [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3 )]. 7.4 Colesevelam Glipizide extended-release tablets should be administered at least 4 hours prior to the administration of colesevelam. Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glipizide when the two are coadministered [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Drug Interactions Glipizide and Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of blood glucose control. These drugs include thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid products, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics, calcium channel blocking drugs, and isoniazid. When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets, the patient should be closely observed for loss of blood glucose control. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets, the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia. Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins and is, therefore, less likely to interact with highly protein-bound drugs such as salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, and probenecid as compared to sulfonylureas, which are extensively bound to serum proteins. Glipizide The hypoglycemic action of sulfonylureas may be potentiated by certain drugs, including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, some azoles, and other drugs that are highly protein-bound, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, probenecid, coumarins, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, and beta-adrenergic blocking agents. When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets, the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets, the patient should be observed closely for loss of blood glucose control. However, caution must be exercised in extrapolating these findings to the clinical situation and in the use of glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets with these drugs. The effect of concomitant administration of fluconazole and glipizide has been demonstrated in a placebo-controlled crossover study in normal volunteers. All subjects received glipizide alone and following treatment with 100 mg of fluconazole as a single oral daily dose for 7 days, the mean percent increase in the glipizide AUC after fluconazole administration was 56.9% (range: 35% to 81%). In studies assessing the effect of colesevelam on the pharmacokinetics of glipizide ER in healthy volunteers, reductions in glipizide AUC 0-∞ and C max of 12% and 13%, respectively, were observed when colesevelam was coadministered with glipizide ER. When glipizide ER was administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam, there was no significant change in glipizide AUC 0-∞ or C max , –4% and 0%, respectively. Therefore, glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam to ensure that colesevelam does not reduce the absorption of glipizide. Metformin Hydrochloride Furosemide A single-dose, metformin-furosemide drug interaction study in healthy subjects demonstrated that pharmacokinetic parameters of both compounds were affected by coadministration. Furosemide increased the metformin plasma and blood C max by 22% and blood AUC by 15%, without any significant change in metformin renal clearance. When administered with metformin, the C max and AUC of furosemide were 31% and 12% smaller, respectively, than when administered alone, and the terminal half-life was decreased by 32%, without any significant change in furosemide renal clearance. No information is available about the interaction of metformin and furosemide when coadministered chronically. Nifedipine A single-dose, metformin-nifedipine drug interaction study in normal healthy volunteers demonstrated that coadministration of nifedipine increased plasma metformin C max and AUC by 20% and 9%, respectively, and increased the amount excreted in the urine. T max and half-life were unaffected. Nifedipine appears to enhance the absorption of metformin. Metformin had minimal effects on nifedipine. Drugs that reduce metformin clearance Concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2] / multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE] inhibitors such as ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use. Such interaction between metformin and oral cimetidine has been observed in normal healthy volunteers in both single- and multiple-dose, metformin-cimetidine drug interaction studies, with a 60% increase in peak metformin plasma and whole blood concentrations and a 40% increase in plasma and whole blood metformin AUC. There was no change in elimination half-life in the single-dose study. Metformin had no effect on cimetidine pharmacokinetics. In healthy volunteers, the pharmacokinetics of metformin and propranolol, and metformin and ibuprofen were not affected when coadministered in single-dose interaction studies. Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins and is, therefore, less likely to interact with highly protein-bound drugs such as salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, and probenecid, as compared to the sulfonylureas, which are extensively bound to serum proteins. Other Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Topiramate or other carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (e.g., zonisamide, acetazolamide or dichlorphenamide) frequently causes a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. Concomitant use of these drugs with glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Consider more frequent monitoring of these patients. Alcohol Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism. Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving glipizide and metformin hydrochloride tablets. Drug Interactions: The hypoglycemic action of sulfonylureas may be potentiated by certain drugs including nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents, some azoles, and other drugs that are highly protein bound, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, probenecid, coumarins, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, quinolones and beta adrenergic blocking agents. In studies assessing the effect of colesevelam on the pharmacokinetics of glipizide ER in healthy volunteers, reductions in glipizide AUC 0–∞ and C max of 12% and 13%, respectively were observed when colesevelam was coadministered with glipizide ER. When glipizide ER was administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam, there was no significant change in glipizide AUC 0–∞ or C max, -4% and 0%, respectively. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glipizide extended-release tablets dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose ( 7.1 ). Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glipizide and oral miconazole are used concomitantly ( 7.2 , 12.3 ). An increase in glipizide AUC was seen after fluconazole administration ( 7.3 , 12.3 ). • Colesevelam: Glipizide extended-release tablets should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam ( 7.4 , 12.3 ). When these medications are discontinued from patients receiving glipizide extended-release tablets, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Increased frequency of monitoring may be required when glipizide extended-release tablets is co-administered with these drugs. 7.2 Miconazole Monitor patients closely for hypoglycemia when glipizide extended-release tablets are co-administered with miconazole. A potential interaction between oral miconazole and oral hypoglycemic agents leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.3 Fluconazole Monitor patients closely for hypoglycemia when glipizide extended-release tablets are co-administered with fluconazole. Concomitant treatment with fluconazole increases plasma concentrations of glipizide, which may lead to hypoglycemia [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glipizide when the two are coadministered [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Drug Interactions The hypoglycemic action of sulfonylureas may be potentiated by certain drugs including nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents, some azoles, and other drugs that are highly protein bound, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, probenecid, coumarins, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, quinolones and beta adrenergic blocking agents. All subjects received glipizide alone and following treatment with 100 mg of fluconazole as a single daily oral dose for 7 days. In studies assessing the effect of colesevelam on the pharmacokinetics of glipizide ER in healthy volunteers, reductions in glipizide AUC 0-∞ and C max of 12% and 13%, respectively were observed when colesevelam was coadministered with glipizide ER.

=== LANSOPRAZOLE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Acid reducer
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated for the: Treatment of active duodenal ulcer in adults ( 1.1 ) Eradication of H. pylori to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence in adults ( 1.2 ) Maintenance of healed duodenal ulcers in adults ( 1.3 ) Treatment of active benign gastric ulcer in adults ( 1.4 ) Healing of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID)-associated gastric ulcer in adults ( 1.5 ) Risk reduction of NSAID-associated gastric ulcer in adults ( 1.6 ) Treatment of symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) in adults and pediatric patients 1 year of age and older. ( 1.7 ) Treatment of erosive esophagitis (EE) in adults and pediatric patients 1 year of age and older. ( 1.8 ) Maintenance of healing of EE in adults ( 1.9 ) Pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome (ZES) in adults ( 1.10 ) 1.1 Treatment of Active Duodenal Ulcer Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated for short-term treatment (for four weeks) for healing and symptom relief of active duodenal ulcer [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. 1.2 Eradication of H. pylori to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Triple Therapy: lansoprazole/amoxicillin/clarithromycin Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules in combination with amoxicillin plus clarithromycin as triple therapy is indicated for the treatment of patients with H. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease (active or one-year history of a duodenal ulcer) to eradicate H. pylori . Eradication of H. pylori has been shown to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. Please refer to the full prescribing information for amoxicillin and clarithromycin. Dual Therapy: lansoprazole/amoxicillin Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules in combination with amoxicillin as dual therapy is indicated for the treatment of patients with H. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease (active or one-year history of a duodenal ulcer) who are either allergic or intolerant to clarithromycin or in whom resistance to clarithromycin is known or suspected (see the clarithromycin prescribing information, MICROBIOLOGY section). Please refer to the full prescribing information for amoxicillin. 1.3 Maintenance of Healed Duodenal Ulcers Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated in adults to maintain healing of duodenal ulcers. Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )]. 1.4 Treatment of Active Benign Gastric Ulcer Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated in adults for short-term treatment (up to eight weeks) for healing and symptom relief of active benign gastric ulcer [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )]. 1.5 Healing of NSAID-Associated Gastric Ulcer Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated in adults for the treatment of NSAID-associated gastric ulcer in patients who continue NSAID use. Controlled studies did not extend beyond eight weeks [see Clinical Studies ( 14.5 )]. 1.6 Risk Reduction of NSAID-Associated Gastric Ulcer Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated in adults for reducing the risk of NSAID-associated gastric ulcers in patients with a history of a documented gastric ulcer who require the use of an NSAID. Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 weeks [see Clinical Studies ( 14.6 )]. 1.7 Treatment of Symptomatic Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated for short-term treatment in adults and pediatric patients 12 years to 17 years of age (up to eight weeks) and pediatric patients one year to 11 years of age (up to 12 weeks) for the treatment of heartburn and other symptoms associated with GERD [see Clinical Studies ( 14.7 ) ]. 1.8 Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis (EE) Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated for short-term treatment in adults and pediatric patients 12 years to 17 years of age (up to eight weeks) and pediatric patients one year to 11 years of age (up to 12 weeks) for healing and symptom relief of all grades of EE. For adults who do not heal with lansoprazole for eight weeks (5 to 10%), it may be helpful to give an additional eight weeks of treatment. If there is a recurrence of erosive esophagitis an additional eight week course of lansoprazole may be considered [see Clinical Studies ( 14.8 )] 1.9 Maintenance of Healing of EE Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated in adults to maintain healing of EE. Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 months [see Clinical Studies ( 14.9 )] 1.10 Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome (ZES) Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated in adults for the long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison syndrome [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.10 )]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are proton pump inhibitor (PPIs) indicated for the: • Treatment of active duodenal ulcer in adults. ( 1.1 ) • Eradication of H. pylori to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence in adults. ( 1.2 ) • Maintenance of healed duodenal ulcers in adults. ( 1.3 ) • Treatment of active benign gastric ulcer in adults. ( 1.4 ) • Healing of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID)-associated gastric ulcer in adults. ( 1.5 ) • Risk reduction of NSAID-associated gastric ulcer in adults. ( 1.6 ) • Treatment of symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) in adults and pediatric patients 1 year of age and older. ( 1.7 ) • Treatment of erosive esophagitis (EE) in adults and pediatric patients 1 year of age and older. ( 1.8 ) • Maintenance of healing of EE in adults. ( 1.9 ) • Pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison syndrome (ZES) in adults. ( 1.10 ) 1.1 Treatment of Active Duodenal Ulcer Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated in adults for short-term treatment (for four weeks) for healing and symptom relief of active duodenal ulcer [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . pylori to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Triple Therapy: Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules /amoxicillin/clarithromycin Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules in combination with amoxicillin plus clarithromycin as triple therapy is indicated in adults for the treatment of patients with H. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease (active or one year history of a duodenal ulcer) to eradicate H. pylori has been shown to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . Dual Therapy: Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules /amoxicillin Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules in combination with amoxicillin as dual therapy is indicated in adults for the treatment of patients with H. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease (active or one year history of a duodenal ulcer) who are either allergic or intolerant to clarithromycin or in whom resistance to clarithromycin is known or suspected (see the clarithromycin prescribing information, Microbiology section). Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . 1.4 Treatment of Active Benign Gastric Ulcer Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated in adults for short-term treatment (up to eight weeks) for healing and symptom relief of active benign gastric ulcer [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )] 1.5 Healing of NSAID-Associated Gastric Ulcer Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated in adults for the treatment of NSAID- associated gastric ulcer in patients who continue NSAID use. Controlled studies did not extend beyond eight weeks [see Clinical Studies ( 14.5 )] . Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 weeks [see Clinical Studies ( 14.6 )] . 1.7 Treatment of Symptomatic Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated for short-term treatment in adults and pediatric patients 12 to 17 years of age (up to eight weeks) and pediatric patients one to 11 years of age (up to 12 weeks) for the treatment of heartburn and other symptoms associated with GERD [see Clinical Studies ( 14.7 )] . 1.8 Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis (EE) Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated for short-term treatment in adults and pediatric patients 12 to 17 years of age (up to eight weeks) and pediatric patients one to 11 years of age (up to 12 weeks) for healing and symptom relief of all grades of EE. For adults who do not heal with lansoprazole delayed-release capsules for eight weeks (5 to 10%), it may be helpful to give an additional eight weeks of treatment. If there is a recurrence of erosive esophagitis an additional eight week course of lansoprazole delayed-release capsules may be considered [see Clinical Studies ( 14.8 )] . 1.9 Maintenance of Healing of EE Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated in adults to maintain healing of EE. Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 months [see Clinical Studies ( 14.9 )] . 1.10 Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome (ZES) Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated for the long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison syndrome [see Clinical Studies ( 14.10 )] . pylori to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence in adults( 1.2 ) Maintenance of healed duodenal ulcers in adults ( 1.3 ) Treatment of active benign gastric ulcer in adults ( 1.4 ) Healing of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID)-associated gastric ulcer in adults ( 1.5 ) Risk reduction of NSAID-associated gastric ulcer in adults ( 1.6 ) Treatment of symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) in adults and pediatric patients 1 year of age and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lansoprazole delayed-release capsule is a proton pump inhibitor (PPIs) indicated for the: • Treatment of active duodenal ulcer in adults. ( 1.4 ) • Healing of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID)-associated gastric ulcer in adults. ( 1.6 ) • Treatment of symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) in adults and pediatric patients 1 year of age and older.( 1.7 ) • Treatment of erosive esophagitis (EE) in adults and pediatric patients 1 year of age and older. ( 1.10 ) 1.1 Treatment of Active Duodenal Ulcer Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated in adults for short-term treatment (for four weeks) for healing and symptom relief of active duodenal ulcer [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. 1.2 Eradication of H.pylori to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Triple Therapy: Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules/amoxicillin/clarithromycin Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules in combination with amoxicillin plus clarithromycin as triple therapy is indicated in adults for the treatment of patients with H. pylori. pylori has been shown to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ]. Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months. [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 ) ]. 1.4 Treatment of Active Benign Gastric Ulcer Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated in adults for short-term treatment (up to eight weeks) for healing and symptom relief of active benign gastric ulcer [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 ) ]. Controlled studies did not extend beyond eight weeks [see Clinical Studies ( 14.5 ) ]. Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 weeks [see Clinical Studies ( 14.6 ) ]. 1.7 Treatment of Symptomatic Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated for short-term treatment in adults and pediatric patients 12 to 17 years of age (up to eight weeks) and pediatric patients one to 11 years of age (up to 12 weeks) for the treatment of heartburn and other symptoms associated with GERD [see Clinical Studies ( 14.7 ) ]. If there is a recurrence of erosive esophagitis an additional eight week course of lansoprazole delayed-release capsules may be considered [see Clinical Studies ( 14.8 )]. Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 months [see Clinical Studies ( 14.9 ) ]. 1.10 Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome (ZES) Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated in adults for the long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison syndrome [see Clinical Studies ( 14.10 ) ]. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) indicated for the: Treatment of active duodenal ulcer in adults. ( 1.1 ) Eradication of H. ( 1.2 ) Maintenance of healed duodenal ulcers in adults. ( 1.3 ) Treatment of active benign gastric ulcer in adults. ( 1.4 ) Healing of non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID)-associated gastric ulcer in adults. ( 1.5 ) Risk reduction of NSAID-associated gastric ulcer in adults. ( 1.6 ) Treatment of symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) in adults and pediatric patients 1 year of age and older. ( 1.8 ) Maintenance of healing of EE in adults. ( 1.9 ) Pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison syndrome (ZES) in adults. pylori to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Triple Therapy: Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules/amoxicillin/clarithromycin Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules in combination with amoxicillin plus clarithromycin as triple therapy is indicated in adults for the treatment of patients with H. pylori has been shown to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence [ see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Dual Therapy: Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules/amoxicillin Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules in combination with amoxicillin as dual therapy is indicated in adults for the treatment of patients with H. pylori has been shown to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence [ see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months [ see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . 1.4 Treatment of Active Benign Gastric Ulcer Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated in adults for short-term treatment (up to eight weeks) for healing and symptom relief of active benign gastric ulcer [ see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . Controlled studies did not extend beyond eight weeks [ see Clinical Studies (14.5) ]. Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 weeks [ see Clinical Studies (14.6) ]. 1.7 Treatment of Symptomatic Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated for short-term treatment in adults and pediatric patients 12 to 17 years of age (up to eight weeks) and pediatric patients one to 11 years of age (up to 12 weeks) for the treatment of heartburn and other symptoms associated with GERD [ see Clinical Studies (14.7) ] . If there is a recurrence of erosive esophagitis an additional eight week course of lansoprazole delayed-release capsules may be considered [ see Clinical Studies (14.8) ]. Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 months [see Clinical Studies ( 14.9 )]. 1.10 Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome (ZES) Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are indicated in adults for the long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison syndrome [see Clinical Studies ( 14.10 )]. Use treats frequent heartburn (occurs 2 or more days a week) not intended for immediate relief of heartburn; this drug may take 1 to 4 days for full effect Use • treats frequent heartburn (occurs 2 or more days a week) • not intended for immediate relief of heartburn; this drug may take 1 to 4 days for full effect
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended Dosage: See full prescribing information for complete dosing information for lansoprazole delayed-release capsules by indication and age group and dosage adjustment in patients with severe hepatic impairment. ( 2.1 , 2.2 , 2.3 ) Administration Instructions ( 2.4 ) Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules Should be swallowed whole. See full prescribing information for alternative administration options 2.1 Recommended Adult Dosage by Indication Indication Recommended Dose Frequency Duodenal Ulcers Short-Term Treatment 15 mg Once daily for 4 weeks Maintenance of Healed 15 mg Once daily Eradication of H. pylori to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence* Triple Therapy: Lansoprazole 30 mg Twice daily for 10 or 14 days Amoxicillin 1 gram Twice daily for 10 or 14 days Clarithromycin 500 mg Twice daily for 10 or 14 days Dual Therapy: Lansoprazole 30 mg Three times daily for 14 days Amoxicillin 1 gram Three times daily for 14 days Benign Gastric Ulcer Short-Term Treatment 30 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks NSAID-associated Gastric Ulcer Healing 30 mg Once daily for 8 weeks † Risk Reduction 15 mg Once daily for up to 12 weeks † Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) Short-Term Treatment of Symptomatic GERD 15 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis 30 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks ‡ Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis 15 mg Once daily # Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome 60 mg Once daily ¶ * Please refer to the amoxicillin and clarithromycin full prescribing information CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS sections, and for information regarding dosing in elderly and renally-impaired patients. † Controlled studies did not extend beyond indicated duration. ‡ For patients who do not heal with lansoprazole for eight weeks (5 to 10%), it may be helpful to give an additional eight weeks of treatment. If there is a recurrence of erosive esophagitis, an additional eight week course of lansoprazole may be considered. ¶ Varies with individual patient. Recommended adult starting dose is 60 mg once daily. Doses should be adjusted to individual patient needs and should continue for as long as clinically indicated. Dosages up to 90 mg twice daily have been administered. Daily dose of greater than 120 mg should be administered in divided doses. Some patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome have been treated continuously with lansoprazole for more than four years. # Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 months 2.2 Recommended Pediatric Dosage by Indication Pediatric Patients 1 to 11 Years of Age In clinical studies, Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules was not administered beyond 12 weeks in 1 to 11 year olds. It is not known if Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are safe and effective if used longer than the recommended duration. Do not exceed the recommended dose and duration of use in pediatric patients as outlined below [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )]. Indication Recommended Dose Frequency Short-Term Treatment of Symptomatic GERD and Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis ≤ 30 kg 15 mg Once daily for up to 12 weeks > 30 kg 30 mg Once daily for up to 12 weeks Pediatric Patients 12 to 17 Years of Age Indication Recommended Dose Frequency Short-Term Treatment of Symptomatic GERD Non-erosive GERD 15 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks Erosive Esophagitis 30 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks 2.3 Hepatic Impairment The recommended dosage is 15 mg orally daily in patients with severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh C) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] 2.4 Important Administration Information Take Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules before meals. Do not crush or chew Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules Take Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules at least 30 minutes prior to sucralfate [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ]. Antacids may be used concomitantly with Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules. Missed doses: If a dose is missed, administer as soon as possible. However, if the next scheduled dose is due, do not take the missed dose, and take the next dose on time. Do not take two doses at one time to make up for a missed dose. Lansoprazole Delayed-Release Capsules Swallow whole; do not chew. For patients who have difficulty swallowing capsules, Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules can be opened and administered orally or via a nasogastric tube in the soft foods or liquids specified below. Administration of Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules in foods or liquids other than those discussed below have not been studied clinically and therefore are not recommended. Administration in Soft Foods (applesauce, ENSURE pudding, cottage cheese, yogurt or strained pears): 1.Open capsule. 2.Sprinkle intact granules on one tablespoon of either applesauce, ENSURE pudding, cottage cheese, yogurt or strained pears. 3.Swallow immediately. Administration in Liquids (apple juice, orange juice or tomato juice): 1.Open capsule. 2.Sprinkle intact granules into a small volume of either apple juice, orange juice or tomato juice (60 mL – approximately two ounces). 3.Mix briefly. 4.Swallow immediately. 5.To ensure complete delivery of the dose, rinse the glass with two or more volumes of juice and swallow the contents immediately. Administration with Apple Juice Through a Nasogastric Tube (≥16 French) 1.Open capsule. 2.Sprinkle intact granules into 40 mL of apple juice. 3.Mix briefly 4.Using a catheter tipped syringe, draw up the mixture 5.Inject through the nasogastric tube into the stomach. 6.Flush with additional apple juice to clear the tube. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended Dosage: •See full prescribing information for complete dosing information for lansoprazole delayed-release capsules by indication and age group and dosage adjustment in patients with severe hepatic impairment.( 2.1 , 2.2 , 2.3 ) Administration Instructions ( 2.4 ) Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules •Should be swallowed whole. •See full prescribing information for alternative administration options. 2.1 Recommended Adult Dosage by Indication Indication Recommended Dose Frequency Duodenal Ulcers Short-Term Treatment Maintenance of Healed 15 mg 15 mg Once daily for 4 weeks Once daily Eradication of H. pylori to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence* Triple Therapy: Lansoprazole delayed- release capsules Amoxicillin Clarithromycin Dual Therapy: Lansoprazole delayed- release capsules Amoxicillin 30 mg 1 gram 500 mg 30 mg 1 gram Twice daily for 10 or 14 days Twice daily for 10 or 14 days Twice daily for 10 or 14 days Three times daily for 14 days Three times daily for 14 days Benign Gastric Ulcer Short-Term Treatment 30 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks NSAID-Associated Gastric Ulcer Healing Risk Reduction 30 mg 15 mg Once daily for 8 weeks † Once daily for up to 12 weeks † Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) Short-Term Treatment of Symptomatic GERD Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis 15 mg 30 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks Once daily for up to 8 weeks ‡ Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis 15 mg Once daily ¶ Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome 60 mg Once daily § *Please refer to the amoxicillin and clarithromycin full prescribing information, Contraindications and Warnings and Precautions sections, and for information regarding dosing in elderly and renally-impaired patients. ‡ For patients who do not heal with lansoprazole delayed- release capsules for eight weeks (5 to 10%), it may be helpful to give an additional eight weeks of treatment. If there is a recurrence of erosive esophagitis, an additional eight week course of lansoprazole delayed- release capsules may be considered. §Varies with individual patient. ¶ Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 months. 2.2 Recommended Pediatric Dosage by Indication Pediatric Patients 1 to 11 Years of Age In clinical studies, lansoprazole delayed-release capsules were not administered beyond 12 weeks in 1 to 11 year olds. Do not exceed the recommended dose and duration of use in pediatric patients as outlined below [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] . Indication Recommended Dose Frequency Short-Term Treatment of Symptomatic GERD and Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis ≤30 kg 15 mg Once daily for up to 12 weeks >30 kg 30 mg Once daily for up to 12 weeks Pediatric Patients 12 to 17 Years of Age Indication Recommended Dose Frequency Short-Term Treatment of Symptomatic GERD Non-erosive GERD 15 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks Erosive Esophagitis 30 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks 2.3 Hepatic Impairment The recommended dosage is 15 mg orally daily in patients with severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh C) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . 2.4 Important Administration Information • Take lansoprazole delayed-release capsules before meals. • Do not crush or chew lansoprazole delayed-release capsules. • Take lansoprazole delayed-release capsules at least 30 minutes prior to sucralfate [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . • Antacids may be used concomitantly with lansoprazole delayed-release capsules. • Missed doses: If a dose is missed, administer as soon as possible. Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules • Swallow whole; do not chew. • For patients who have difficulty swallowing capsules, lansoprazole delayed-release capsules can be opened and administered orally or via a nasogastric tube in the soft foods or liquids specified below. • Administration of lansoprazole delayed-release capsules in foods or liquids other than those discussed below have not been studied clinically and therefore are not recommended. Administration in Soft Foods (applesauce, ENSURE pudding, cottage cheese, yogurt or strained pears): 1. Open capsule. 2. Sprinkle intact granules on one tablespoon of either applesauce, ENSURE pudding, cottage cheese, yogurt or strained pears. 3. Swallow immediately. Administration in Liquids (apple juice, orange juice or tomato juice): 1. Sprinkle intact granules into a small volume of either apple juice, orange juice or tomato juice (60 mL – approximately two ounces). Mix briefly. 4. 5. To ensure complete delivery of the dose, rinse the glass with two or more volumes of juice and swallow the contents immediately. Administration with Apple Juice Through a Nasogastric Tube (≥16 French) 1. Sprinkle intact granules into 40 mL of apple juice. Using a catheter tipped syringe, draw up the mixture. Inject through the nasogastric tube into the stomach. 6. Flush with additional apple juice to clear the tube. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended Dosage: • See full prescribing information for complete dosing information for lansoprazole delayed-release capsule by indication and age group and dosage adjustment in patients with severe hepatic impairment. ( 2.1 , 2.2 , 2.3 ) Administration Instructions ( 2.4 ) Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules • Should be swallowed whole. • See full prescribing information for alternative administration options. 2.1 Recommended Adult Dosage by Indication Indication Recommended Dose Frequency Duodenal Ulcers Short-Term Treatment Maintenance of Healed 15 mg 15 mg Once daily for 4 weeks Once daily Eradicationof H. pylor i to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence* Triple Therapy: Lansoprazole delayed-release orally disintegrating tablets Amoxicillin Clarithromycin Dual Therapy: Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules Amoxicillin 30 mg 1gram 500 mg 30 mg 1 gram Twice daily for 10 or 14 days Twice daily for 10 or 14 days Twice daily for 10 or 14 days Three times daily for 14 days Three times daily for 14 days Benign Gastric Ulcer Short-Term Treatment 30 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks NSAID-Associated Gastric Ulcer Healing Risk Reduction 30 mg 15 mg Once daily for 8 weeks † Once daily for up to 12 weeks † Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) Short-Term Treatment of Symptomatic GERD Short -Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis 15 mg 30 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks Once daily for up to 8 weeks ‡ Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis 15 mg Once daily ¶ Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome 60 mg Once daily § * Please refer to the amoxicillin and clarithromycin full prescribing information for Contraindications and Warnings and Precautions sections, and for information regarding dosing in elderly and renally-impaired patients. ‡ For patients who do not heal with lansoprazole delayed-release capsules for eight weeks (5 to 10%), it may be helpful to give an additional eight weeks of treatment. If there is a recurrence of erosive esophagitis, an additional eight week course of lansoprazole delayed-release capsules may be considered. § Varies with individual patient. Some patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome have been treated continuously with lansoprazole delayed-release capsules for more than four years. ¶ Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 months 2.2 Recommended Pediatric Dosage by Indication Pediatric Patients 1 to 11 Years of Age In clinical studies, lansoprazole was not administered beyond 12 weeks in 1 to 11 year olds. It is not known if lansoprazole is safe and effective if used longer than the recommended duration. Do not exceed the recommended dose and duration of use in pediatric patients as outlined below [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ) ]. ­ Indication Recommended Dose Frequency Short-Term Treatment of Symptomatic GERD and Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis ≤ 30 kg 15 mg Once daily for up to 12 weeks > 30 kg 30 mg Once daily for up to 12 weeks Pediatric Patients 12 to 17 Years of Age ­ Indication Recommended Dose Frequency Short-Term Treatment of Symptomatic GERD Non-erosive GERD 15 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks Erosive Esophagitis 30 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks 2.3 Hepatic Impairment The recommended dosage is 15 mg orally daily in patients with severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh C) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. 2.4 Important Administration Information Take lansoprazole delayed-release capsules before meals. Do not crush or chew lansoprazole delayed-release capsules. Take lansoprazole delayed-release capsules at least 30 minutes prior to sucralfate [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Antacids may be used concomitantly with lansoprazole delayed-release capsules.· Missed doses: If a dose is missed, administer as soon as possible. Lansoprazole Delayed-Release Capsules Swallow whole; do not chew.· For patients who have difficulty swallowing capsules, lansoprazole delayed-release capsules can be opened and administered orally or via a nasogastric tube in the soft foods or liquids specified below. Using a catheter-tipped syringe, draw up the mixture. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Recommended Dosage: See full prescribing information for complete dosing information for lansoprazole delayed-release capsules by indication and age group and dosage adjustment in patients with severe hepatic impairment. See full prescribing information for alternative administration options. 2.1 Recommended Adult Dosage by Indication *Please refer to the amoxicillin and clarithromycin full prescribing information, Contraindications and Warnings and Precautions sections, and for information regarding dosing in elderly and renally impaired patients. Indication Recommended Dose Frequency Duodenal Ulcers Short-Term Treatment 15 mg Once daily for 4 weeks Maintenance of Healed 15 mg Once daily Eradication of H. pylori to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence* Triple Therapy: Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules 30 mg Twice daily for 10 or 14 days Amoxicillin 1 gram Twice daily for 10 or 14 days Clarithromycin 500 mg Twice daily for 10 or 14 days Dual Therapy: Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules 30 mg Twice daily for 10 or 14 days Amoxicillin 1 gram Twice daily for 10 or 14 days Benign Gastric Ulcer Short-Term Treatment 30 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks NSAID-Associated Gastric Ulcer Healing 30 mg Once daily for 8 weeks † Risk Reduction 15 mg Once daily for up to 12 weeks † Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) Short-Term Treatment of Symptomatic GERD 15 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis 30 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks ‡ Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis 15 mg Once daily ¶ Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome 60 mg Once daily § 2.2 Recommended Pediatric Dosage by Indication Pediatric Patients 1 to 11 Years of Age In clinical studies, lansoprazole delayed-release capsules were not administered beyond 12 weeks in 1 to 11 year olds. Indication Recommended Dose Frequency Short-Term Treatment of Symptomatic GERD and Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis ≤30 kg 15 mg Once daily for up to 12 weeks >30 kg 30 mg Once daily for up to 12 weeks Pediatric Patients 12 to 17 Years of Age Short-Term Treatment of Symptomatic GERD Non-erosive GERD 15 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks Erosive Esophagitis 30 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks 2.3 Hepatic Impairment The recommended dosage is 15 mg orally daily in patients with severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh C) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. Do not crush or chew lansoprazole delayed-release capsule. Take lansoprazole delayed-release capsules at least 30 minutes prior to sucralfate [ see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Administration of lansoprazole delayed-release capsules in foods or liquids other than those discussed below have not been studied clinically and therefore are not recommended Administration in Soft Foods (applesauce, ENSURE pudding, cottage cheese, yogurt or strained pears): Open capsule. Administration in Liquids (apple juice, orange juice or tomato juice): Open capsule. Administration with Apple Juice Through a Nasogastric Tube (≥16 French) Open capsule. Directions adults 18 years of age and older this product is to be used once a day (every 24 hours), every day for 14 days it may take 1 to 4 days for full effect, although some people get complete relief of symptoms within 24 hours 14-Day Course of Treatment swallow 1 capsule with a glass of water before eating in the morning take every day for 14 days do not take more than 1 capsule a days swallow whole. Do not crush or chew capsules. do not use for more than 14 days unless directed by your doctor Repeated 14-Day Courses (if needed) you may repeat a 14-day course every 4 months do not take for more than 14 days or more often than every 4 months unless directed by a doctor children under 18 years of age: ask a doctor before use. Heartburn in children may sometimes be caused by a serious condition. Directions • adults 18 years of age and older • this product is to be used once a day (every 24 hours), every day for 14 days • it may take 1 to 4 days for full effect, although some people get complete relief of symptoms within 24 hours 14-Day Course of Treatment • swallow 1 capsule with a glass of water before eating in the morning • take every day for 14 days • do not take more than 1 capsule a day • swallow whole. • do not use for more than 14 days unless directed by your doctor Repeated 14-Day Courses (if needed) • you may repeat a 14-day course every 4 months • do not take for more than 14 days or more often than every 4 months unless directed by a doctor • children under 18 years of age: ask a doctor before use. Other information • read the directions, warnings and package insert before use • keep the carton and package insert. They contain important information. • store at 20-25°C (68-77°F) • keep product out of high heat and humidity • protect product from moisture • close cap tightly after use
Warnings: Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you are allergic to lansoprazole Do not use if you have trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools.These may be signs of a serious condition. See your doctor. Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease had heartburn over 3 months. This may be a sign of a more serious condition. heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating or dizzines s chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness frequent chest pain frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn unexplained weight loss nausea or vomiting stomach pain Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug. Acid reducers may interact with certain prescription drugs. Stop use and ask a doctor if your heartburn continues or worsens you need to take this product for more than 14 days you need to take more than 1 course of treatment every 4 months you get diarrhea you develop a rash or joint pain If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a healthcare professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222) Warnings Allergy alert: • do not use if you are allergic to lansoprazole • lansoprazole may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: • skin reddening • blisters • rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Do not use if you have: • trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools • heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain These may be signs of a serious condition. Ask a doctor before use if you have • liver disease • had heartburn over 3 months. • frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • taking a prescription drug. Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days • you need to take more than 1 course of treatment every 4 months • you get diarrhea • you develop a rash or joint pain If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health care professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you are allergic to lansoprazole Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools. These may be signs of a serious condition. • heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • taking a prescription drug. Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days • you need to take more than 1 course of treatment every 4 months • you get diarrhea • you develop a rash or joint pain If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Do not use if you have: • trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools. • heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain These may be signs of a serious condition.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Adverse Reactions (6)]. Proton Pump Inhibitors (PPIs), including lansoprazole, are contraindicated with rilpivirine-containing products [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. For information about contraindications of antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated in combination with lansoprazole, refer to the CONTRAINDICATIONS section of their prescribing information. Contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any component of the lansoprazole delayed-release capsules formulation. ( 4 ) Patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products. ( 4 , 7 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are contraindicated in patients with known severe hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute interstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Adverse Reactions ( 6 )] . • Proton Pump Inhibitors (PPIs), including lansoprazole delayed-release capsules, are contraindicated with rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . • For information about contraindications of antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated in combination with lansoprazole delayed-release capsules, refer to the Contraindications section of their prescribing information. • Contraindicated in patients with known severe hypersensitivity to any component of the lansoprazole delayed-release capsules formulation. ( 4 ) • Patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are contraindicated in patients with known severe hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Adverse Reactions (6) ]. Proton Pump Inhibitors (PPIs), including lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are contraindicated with rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. For information about contraindications of antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated in combination with lansoprazole delayed-release capsules, refer to the Contraindications section of their prescribing information. • Patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products. ( 4 , 7 ) • Contraindicated in patients with known severe hypersensitivity to any component of the lansoprazole delayed-release capsules formulations. (4) Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6) ]. Proton Pump Inhibitors (PPIs), including lansoprazole delayed-release capsules, are contraindicated with rilpivirine-containing products [s ee Drug Interactions (7) ]. Contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any component of the lansoprazole delayed-release capsules formulations. (4) Patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products. (4, 7)
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Tables 2 and 3 include drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with lansoprazole delayed release capsules and instructions for preventing or managing them. Consult the labeling of concomitantly used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with PPIs. Table 2. Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Co-Administered with Lansoprazole Delayed Release Capsules and Interactions with Diagnostics Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact: The effect of PPIs on antiretroviral drugs is variable. The clinical importance and the mechanisms behind these interactions are not always known. Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine, atazanavir, and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with lansoprazole may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance. Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with lansoprazole may increase toxicity of the antiretroviral drugs. There are other antiretroviral drugs which do not result in clinically relevant interactions with lansoprazole. Intervention : Rilpivirine-containing products : Concomitant use with Lansoprazole delayed release capsules is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ]. See prescribing information. Atazanavir : See prescribing information for atazanavir for dosing information. Nelfinavir : Avoid concomitant use with Lansoprazole. See prescribing information for nelfinavir. Saquinavir : See the prescribing information for saquinavir and monitor for potential saquinavir toxicities. Other antiretrovirals : See prescribing information. Warfarin Clinical Impact: Increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving PPIs and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Intervention : Monitor INR and prothrombin time. Dose adjustment of warfarin may be needed to maintain target INR range. See prescribing information for warfarin. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate (primarily at high dose) may elevate and prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . Intervention : A temporary withdrawal of Lansoprazole may be considered in some patients receiving high-dose methotrexate. Digoxin Clinical Impact: Potential for increased exposure of digoxin Intervention : Monitor digoxin concentrations. Dose adjustment of digoxin may be needed to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations. See prescribing information for digoxin. Theophylline Clinical Impact : Increased clearance of theophylline [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention Individual patients may require additional titration of their theophylline dosage when Lansoprazole is started or stopped to ensure clinically effective blood concentrations. Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption (e.g., iron salts, erlotinib, dasatinib, nilotinib, mycophenolate mofetil, ketoconazole/itraconazole) Clinical Impact: Lansoprazole can reduce the absorption of other drugs due to its effect on reducing intragastric acidity. Intervention : Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Co-administration of PPIs in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH. The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving Lansoprazole and MMF. Use Lansoprazole with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF. See the prescribing information for other drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption. Combination Therapy with Clarithromycin and Amoxicillin Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions, including potentially fatal arrhythmias, and are contraindicated. Amoxicillin also has drug interactions. Intervention : See Contraindications and Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin. See Drug Interactions in prescribing information for amoxicillin. Tacrolimus Clinical Impact: Potentially increased exposure of tacrolimus, especially in transplant patients who are intermediate or poor metabolizers of CYP2C19. Intervention : Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations. Dose adjustment of tacrolimus may be needed to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations. See prescribing information for tacrolimus. Interactions with Investigations of Neuroendocrine Tumors Clinical Impact: CgA levels increase secondary to PPI-induced decreases in gastric acidity. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.9), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )]. Intervention : Temporarily stop Lansoprazole delayed release capsules treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. If serial tests are performed (e.g., for monitoring), the same commercial laboratory should be used for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary. Interaction with Secretin Stimulation Test Clinical Impact: Hyper-response in gastrin secretion in response to secretin stimulation test, falsely suggesting gastrinoma. Intervention : Temporarily stop Lansoprazole treatment at least 28 days before assessing to allow gastrin levels to return to baseline [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )]. False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact: There have been reports of false positive urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving PPIs. Intervention : An alternative confirmatory method should be considered to verify positive results. Table 3. Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Lansoprazole Delayed Release Capsules When CoAdministered with Other Drugs CYP2C19 OR CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: Decreased exposure of lansoprazole when used concomitantly with strong inducers [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] Intervention : St John’s Wort, rifampin : Avoid concomitant use with Lansoprazole. Ritonavir-containing products : See prescribing information. CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of lansoprazole is expected when used concomitantly with strong inhibitors [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Intervention : Voriconazole : See prescribing information. Sucralfate Clinical Impact: Decreased and delayed absorption of lansoprazole [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention : Take Lansoprazole at least 30 minutes prior to sucralfate [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ) ]. See full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions.( 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Tables 2 and 3 include drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with lansoprazole and instructions for preventing or managing them. Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Co-Administered with Lansoprazole and Interactions with Diagnostics Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact: The effect of PPIs on antiretroviral drugs is variable. • Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine, atazanavir, and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with lansoprazole may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance. • Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with lansoprazole may increase toxicity of the antiretroviral drugs. • There are other antiretroviral drugs which do not result in clinically relevant interactions with lansoprazole. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with lansoprazole is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Atazanavir: See prescribing information for atazanavir for dosing information. Nelfinavir: Avoid concomitant use with lansoprazole. Saquinavir: See the prescribing information for saquinavir and monitor for potential saquinavir toxicities. Other antiretrovirals: See prescribing information. Intervention: Monitor INR and prothrombin time. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] . Intervention: A temporary withdrawal of lansoprazole may be considered in some patients receiving high-dose methotrexate. Digoxin Clinical Impact: Potential for increased exposure of digoxin. Intervention: Monitor digoxin concentrations. Theophylline Clinical Impact: Increased clearance of theophylline [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: Individual patients may require additional titration of their theophylline dosage when lansoprazole is started or stopped to ensure clinically effective blood concentrations. Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption (e.g., iron salts, erlotinib, dasatinib, nilotinib,mycophenolate mofetil, ketoconazole/itraconazole) Clinical Impact: Lansoprazole can reduce the absorption of other drugs due to its effect on reducing intragastric acidity. Intervention: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Co-administration of PPIs in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH. Use lansoprazole with caution in transplant patients receiving and MMF. Intervention: • See Contraindications and Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin. • See Drug Interactions in prescribing information for amoxicillin. Intervention: Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . Intervention: Temporarily stop lansoprazole treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. Intervention: Temporarily stop lansoprazole treatment at least 28 days before assessing to allow gastrin levels to return to baseline [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )]. Intervention: An alternative confirmatory method should be considered to verify positive results. Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Lansoprazole When Co-Administered with Other Drugs CYP2C19 OR CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: Decreased exposure of lansoprazole when used concomitantly with strong inducers [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: St John’s Wort, rifampin: Avoid concomitant use with lansoprazole. Ritonavir-containing products: See prescribing information. CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of lansoprazole is expected when used concomitantly with strong inhibitors [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: Voriconazole : See prescribing information. Sucralfate Clinical Impact: Decreased and delayed absorption of lansoprazole [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: Take lansoprazole at least 30 minutes prior to sucralfate [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )] . See full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions. ( 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Tables 2 and 3 include drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with lansoprazole delayed-release capsules and instructions for preventing or managing them. Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Coadministered with Lansoprazole Delayed-Release Capsules and Interactions with Diagnostics Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact: The effect of PPIs on antiretroviral drugs is variable. · Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine, atazanavir, and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with lansoprazole may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance. · Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with lansoprazole may increase toxicity of the antiretroviral drugs. · There are other antiretroviral drugs which do not result in clinically relevant interactions with lansoprazole. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are contraindicated [see Contraindications (4 ) ]. Nelfinavir: Avoid concomitant use with lansoprazole delayed-release capsules. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9) ]. Intervention: A temporary withdrawal of lansoprazole delayed-release capsules may be considered in some patients receiving high-dose methotrexate. Theophylline Clinical Impact: Increased clearance of theophylline [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Intervention: Individual patients may require additional titration of their theophylline dosage when lansoprazole delayed-release capsules are started or stopped to ensure clinically effective blood concentrations. Intervention: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Coadministration of PPIs in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH. The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving lansoprazole delayed-release capsules and MMF. Use lansoprazole delayed-release capsules with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 ), Clinical Pharmacology (12.2 )]. Intervention: Temporarily stop lansoprazole delayed-release capsules treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. Intervention: Temporarily stop lansoprazole delayed-release capsules treatment at least 28 days before assessing to allow gastrin levels to return to baseline [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) ]. Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Lansoprazole Delayed-Release Capsules When Coadministered with Other Drugs CYP2C19 OR CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: Decreased exposure of lansoprazole when used concomitantly with strong inducers [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Intervention: St John’s Wort, rifampin: Avoid concomitant use with lansoprazole delayed-release capsules. CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of lansoprazole is expected when used concomitantly with strong inhibitors [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Intervention: Voriconazole: See prescribing information. Sucralfate Clinical Impact: Decreased and delayed absorption of lansoprazole [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Intervention: Take lansoprazole delayed-release capsules at least 30 minutes prior to sucralfate [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ) ]. (7) Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with lansoprazole delayed release capsule is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)] . Nelfinavir: Avoid concomitant use with lansoprazole delayed release capsules. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9), Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Intervention: Temporarily stop lansoprazole delayed release capsules treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. Intervention: Temporarily stop lansoprazole delayed release capsules treatment at least 28 days before assessing to allow gastrin levels to return to baseline [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Lansoprazole Delayed-Release Capsules When Co-Administered With Other Drugs CYP2C19 OR CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: Decreased exposure of lansoprazole when used concomitantly with strong inducers [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Intervention: St John’s Wort, rifampin: Avoid concomitant use with lansoprazole delayed release capsules. CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of lansoprazole is expected when used concomitantly with strong inhibitors [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Sucralfate Clinical Impact: Decreased and delayed absorption of lansoprazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Intervention: Take lansoprazole delayed release capsules at least 30 minutes prior to sucralfate [see Dosage and Administration (2.4)].

=== PHENYLEPHRINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purposes Pain reliever/fever reducer Cough suppressant Nasal decongestant Anorectal/Hemorrhoidal Active ingredients (in each 10 mL) Purposes Acetaminophen 325 mg Pain reliever/fever reducer Diphenhydramine HCl 12.5 mg Antihistamine/cough suppressant Phenylephrine HCl 5 mg Nasal decongestant Topical Anesthetic, Vasoconstrictor Purpose Pain reliever/fever reducer Cough suppressant Expectorant Nasal decongestant Purpose Pain reliever/fever reducer Cough suppressant Nasal decongestant Active ingredients (in each 20 mL) Purposes Dextromethorphan HBr 20 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 400 mg Expectorant Phenylephrine HCl 10 mg Nasal decongestant Purpose Nasal decongestant Purposes Cough suppressant Expectorant Nasal decongestant
Indications: Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to a cold minor aches and pains headache nasal and sinus congestion sore throat cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation temporarily reduces fever For the temporary relief of pain, soreness, and burning. Helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids. Temporarily shrinks hemorrhoidal tissue. Temporarily provides a coating for the relief of anorectal discomforts. Temporarily protects the inflamed, irritated anorectal surface to help make bowel movements less painful. Uses temporarily relieves these common cold and flu symptoms: cough nasal congestion minor aches and pains sore throat headache runny nose sneezing temporarily reduces fever controls cough to help your child get to sleep Helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with anorectal disorders or inflammation. Uses temporarily relieves common cold/flu symptoms: • nasal congestion • sinus congestion and pressure • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation • minor aches and pains • headache • fever • sore throat • reduces swelling of nasal passages • temporarily restores freer breathing through the nose • promotes nasal and/or sinus drainage • helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive Uses • temporarily relieves common cold/flu symptoms: • nasal congestion • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation • sore throat • headache • minor aches and pains • fever Uses helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive temporarily relieves: cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants the intensity of coughing the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep nasal congestion due to a cold Uses temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to the common cold, hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies Uses • Helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to drain bronchial tubes • Temporarily relieves these symptoms occurring with a cold: • nasal congestion • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation.
Dosage: Directions do not take more than directed (see overdose warning ) do not take more than 6 doses (180 mL) in any 24-hour period measure only with dosing cup provided. Do not use any other dosing device. mL= milliliter keep dosing cup with product adults and children 12 years and over 30 mL every 4 hours chlldren under 12 years of age: do not use Adults: when practical, cleanse area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly. Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or soft cloth before applying. Adults and children 12 years and older: apply externally to the affected area up to 4 times a day. Children under 12 years of age: consult a doctor. Directions this product does not contain directions or complete warnings for adult use do not give more than directed (see Overdose warning ) measure only with dosing cup provided do not use dosing cup with other products dose as follows or as directed by a doctor children 6 to under 12 years of age: 10 mL in dosing cup provided every 4 hours while symptoms last; do not give more than 5 doses in any 24-hour period children under 6 years of age: do not use When practical, cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water, rinse thoroughly, and gently pat dry. Spray the affected area, wash hands after applying. Adults and children 12 years and older : apply externally to the affected area up to 6 times a day. Directions • take only as directed – see Overdose warning • only use the dose cup provided • do not exceed 4 doses per 24 hrs adults & children 12 yrs & over 30 mL every 4 hrs children 6 to under 12 yrs 15 mL every 4 hrs children 4 to under 6 yrs ask a doctor children under 4 yrs do not use Other information • each 15 mL contains: sodium 6 mg • store at 20-25 ° C (68-77 ° F). Do not refrigerate. Directions • take only as directed – see Overdose warning • only use the dose cup provided • do not exceed 4 doses per 24 hrs adults & children 12 yrs & over 30 mL every 4 hrs children 6 to under 12 yrs 15 mL every 4 hrs children 4 to under 6 yrs ask a doctor children under 4 yrs do not use Directions do not take more than 6 doses in any 24-hour period measure only with dosing cup provided do not use dosing cup with other products dose as follows or as directed by a doctor mL = milliliter adults and children 12 years of age and older: 20 mL in dosing cup provided every 4 hours. children under 12 years of age: Do not use. Apply externally to the affected area up to 4 times daily, especially at night, in the morning or after each bowel movement. For intrarectal use: attach applicator to tube. Lubricate well, then gently insert applicator into the rectum. Thoroughly cleanse applicator after use with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly. Directions adults and children 12 years and over: take 1 tablet every 4 hours. Do not take more than 6 tablets in 24 hours. children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions • do not take more than 4 doses in any 24-hour period. AGE DOSE Adults and Children 12 years of age and over Take 1 teaspoonfuls (5 mL) every 6 hours Children under 12 years of age ask a doctor
Warnings: Warnings Liver warning: This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take: more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may inclide: skin reddening blisters rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Sore throat warning: If sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease) or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product. with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or non-prescription). If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen, ask a doctor or pharmacist. Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease heart disease diabetes high blood pressure thyroid disease trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, or emphysema Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin. When using this product, do not exceed recommended dosage Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occur pain, cough, or nasal congestion gets worse or lasts more than 7 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur cough comes back or occurs with a rash or headache that lasts. These could be signs of a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. Overdose warning: Taking more than the recommended dose (overdose) may cause liver damage. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. For external use only. Ask a doctor before use if you have: heart disease, high blood pressure, thyroid disease, diabetes, or difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland. Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug for high blood pressure or depression. When using this product : avoid contact with eyes, do not exceed recommended dosage unless directed by a doctor, do not put this product into rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator. Stop use and ask a doctor if : rectal bleeding occurs, condition worsens or does not improve within seven (7) days, allergic reaction occurs to ingredients in this product, symptom being treated does not subside or if redness, irritation, swelling, pain or other symptoms develop or increase, symptoms clear up and return within a few days. Warnings Liver warning This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if your child takes: more than 5 doses in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount with other drugs containing acetaminophen Allergy alert Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Sore throat warning I f sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. Do not use with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). to make a child sleepy with any other product containing diphenhydramine, even one used on the skin in a child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your child's prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product. Ask a doctor before use if the child has liver disease heart disease diabetes high blood pressure thyroid disease glaucoma a breathing problem such as chronic bronchitis persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with asthma cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if the child is taking the blood thinning drug warfarin taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product do not use more than directed (see Overdose warning ) excitability may occur, especially in children marked drowsiness may occur sedatives and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occur pain, nasal congestion, or cough gets worse or lasts more than 5 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur cough comes back, or occurs with fever, rash, or headache that lasts. Overdose warning Taking more than the recommended dose (overdose) may cause liver damage. I n case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Quick medical attention is critical even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. Flammable-- do not use while smoking or near heat or flame. When using this product avoid contact with eyes, contents under pressure. Do not puncture or incinerate. Do not store at temperatures above 120F, do not exceed recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor, do not put this product in the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator. Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, thyroid disease, diabetes, difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland, presently taking a prescription for high blood pressure or depression. Stop use and ask a doctor if rectal bleeding occurs, the condition worsens or symptoms does not improve within 7 days, allergic reaction occurs to ingredients in this product, symptom being treated does not subside or if redness, irritation, swelling, pain or other symptoms develop or increase. Ask a healthcare or professional before use. Severe liver damage may occur if • adult takes more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours • child takes more than 5 doses in 24 hours • taken with other drugs containing acetaminophen • adult has 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: • skin reddening • blisters • rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Do not use • with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have • liver disease • heart disease • thyroid disease • diabetes • high blood pressure • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • you get nervous, dizzy or sleepless • pain, nasal congestion, or cough gets worse or lasts more than 5 days (children) or 7 days (adults) • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • redness or swelling is present • new symptoms occur • cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts. Overdose warning: In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have • liver disease • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, or emphysema Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • you get nervous, dizzy or sleepless • pain, nasal congestion or cough gets worse or lasts more than 5 days (children) or 7 days (adults) • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • redness or swelling is present • new symptoms occur • cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts. Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease high blood pressure thyroid disease diabetes trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis or emphysema cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness or sleeplessness occur symptoms do not get better within 7 days or occur with fever cough comes back, or occurs with rash or persistent headache. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222) For external and/or intrarectal use. When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage unless directed by a doctor. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve within seven (7) days, bleeding occurs, an allergic reaction develops, the symptom being treated does not subside or if redness, irritation, swelling, pain or other symptoms develop or increase. Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease diabetes thyroid disease high blood pressure difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage. Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occur symptoms do not improve within 7 days or occur with fever If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) • cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis or emphysema. Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other oral nasal decongestant or stimulant. When using this product • do not exceed recommended dosage Stop use and ask a doctor if • you get nervous, dizzy or sleepless • symptoms do not get better within 7 days or are accompanied by fever • coughs lasts more than 7 days, comes back, or is accompanied by fever, rash, or a persistent headache. If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children .

=== ALBUTEROL SULFATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Albuterol Sulfate HFA is a beta 2 -adrenergic agonist indicated for: Treatment or prevention of bronchospasm in adult and pediatric patients aged 4 years and older with reversible obstructive airway disease. ( 1.1 ) Prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm in adult and pediatric patients aged 4 years and older. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Bronchospasm Albuterol Sulfate HFA Inhalation Aerosol is indicated for the treatment or prevention of bronchospasm in adult and pediatric patients aged 4 years and older with reversible obstructive airway disease. 1.2 Exercise-Induced Bronchospasm Albuterol Sulfate HFA is indicated for the prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm in adult and pediatric patients aged 4 years and older. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Albuterol inhalation solution is indicated for the relief of bronchospasm in patients 2 years of age and older with reversible obstructive airway disease and acute attacks of bronchospasm. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol is indicated in adults and children 4 years of age and older for the treatment or prevention of bronchospasm with reversible obstructive airway disease and for the prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol is a beta 2 -adrenergic agonist indicated for: • Treatment or prevention of bronchospasm in patients 4 years of age and older with reversible obstructive airway disease. ( 1.1 ) • Prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm in patients 4 years of age and older. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Bronchospasm Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol is indicated for the treatment or prevention of bronchospasm in patients 4 years of age and older with reversible obstructive airway disease. 1.2 Exercise-Induced Bronchospasm Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol is indicated for the prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm in patients 4 years of age and older. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate inhalation solution is indicated for the treatment of bronchospasm associated with COPD in patients requiring more than one bronchodilator. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol is a beta 2 -adrenergic agonist indicated for: Treatment or prevention of bronchospasm in patients 4 years of age and older with reversible obstructive airway disease. ( 1.1 ) Prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm in patients 4 years of age and older. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Albuterol sulfate inhalation solution is indicated for the relief of bronchospasm in patients 2 years of age and older with reversible obstructive airway disease and acute attacks of bronchospasm.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For oral inhalation only. ( 2 ) Treatment or prevention of bronchospasm in adult and pediatric patients aged 4 years and older: 2 inhalations by oral inhalation every 4 to 6 hours. For some patients, 1 inhalation every 4 hours may be sufficient. ( 2.1 ) Prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm in adult and pediatric patients aged 4 years and older: 2 inhalations by oral inhalation 15 to 30 minutes before exercise. ( 2.2 ) Priming information: Prime Albuterol Sulfate HFA before using for the first time, when the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks, or when the inhaler has been dropped. To prime Albuterol Sulfate HFA, release 4 sprays into the air away from the face, shaking well before each spray. ( 2.3 ) Cleaning information: At least once a week, wash the actuator with warm water and let it air-dry completely. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage for Bronchospasm (Acute Episodes or Symptoms Associated with Bronchospasm) Adult and pediatric patients aged 4 years and older: 2 inhalations by oral inhalation repeated every 4 to 6 hours; in some patients, 1 inhalation every 4 hours may be sufficient. More frequent administration or a greater number of inhalations is not recommended. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Prevention of Exercise-Induced Bronchospasm Adult and pediatric patients aged 4 years and older: 2 inhalations by oral inhalation 15 to 30 minutes before exercise. 2.3 Administration Information Albuterol Sulfate HFA should be administered by the orally inhaled route only. Priming Priming Albuterol Sulfate HFA is essential to ensure appropriate albuterol content in each actuation. Prime Albuterol Sulfate HFA before using for the first time, when the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks, or when the inhaler has been dropped. Avoid spraying in eyes. Cleaning To ensure proper dosing and to prevent actuator orifice blockage, wash the actuator with warm water and let it air-dry completely at least once a week. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and Children 2 to 12 Years of Age: The usual dosage for adults and for children weighing at least 15 kg is 2.5 mg of albuterol (one vial) administered three to four times daily by nebulization. Children weighing < 15 kg who require < 2.5 mg/dose (i.e., less than a full vial) should use albuterol inhalation solution, 0.5% instead of albuterol inhalation solution, 0.083%. More frequent administration or higher doses are not recommended. To administer 2.5 mg of albuterol, administer the entire contents of one sterile unit-dose vial (3 mL of 0.083% inhalation solution) by nebulization. The flow rate is regulated to suit the particular nebulizer so that albuterol inhalation solution will be delivered over approximately 5 to 15 minutes. The use of albuterol inhalation solution can be continued as medically indicated to control recurring bouts of bronchospasm. During this time most patients gain optimum benefit from regular use of the inhalation solution. If a previously effective dosage regimen fails to provide the usual relief, medical advice should be sought immediately, as this is often a sign of seriously worsening asthma that would require reassessment of therapy. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm or prevention of asthmatic symptoms, the usual dosage for adults and children 4 years of age and older is two inhalations repeated every 4 to 6 hours. More frequent administration or a larger number of inhalations is not recommended. In some patients, one inhalation every 4 hours may be sufficient. Each actuation of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol delivers 108 mcg of albuterol sulfate (equivalent to 90 mcg of albuterol base) from the mouthpiece. It is recommended to prime the inhaler before using for the first time and in cases where the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks by releasing four “test sprays” into the air, away from the face. Exercise Induced Bronchospasm Prevention: The usual dosage for adults and children 4 years of age and older is two inhalations 15 to 30 minutes before exercise. To maintain proper use of this product, it is important that the mouthpiece be washed and dried thoroughly at least once a week. The inhaler may cease to deliver medication if not properly cleaned and dried thoroughly (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients section). Keeping the plastic mouthpiece clean is very important to prevent medication buildup and blockage. The inhaler may cease to deliver medication if not properly cleaned and air dried thoroughly. If the mouthpiece becomes blocked, washing the mouthpiece will remove the blockage. If a previously effective dose regimen fails to provide the usual response, this may be a marker of destabilization of asthma and requires reevaluation of the patient and the treatment regimen, giving special consideration to the possible need for anti-inflammatory treatment, e.g., corticosteroids. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For oral inhalation only • Treatment or prevention of bronchospasm in adults and children 4 years of age and older: 2 inhalations every 4 to 6 hours. ( 2.1 ) • Prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm in adults and children 4 years of age and older: 2 inhalations 15 to 30 minutes before exercise. ( 2.2 ) • Priming information: Prime Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol before using for the first time, or when the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks. To prime Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol, release 3 sprays into the air away from the face. Shake well before each spray. ( 2.3 ) • Cleaning information: At least once a week, wash the actuator with warm water, shake off excess, and air dry thoroughly. ( 2.3 ) • Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol inhaler should be discarded when the dose counter displays 0 or after the expiration date on the product, whichever comes first. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Bronchospasm For treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm or prevention of symptoms associated with bronchospasm, the usual dosage for adults and children 4 years and older is two inhalations repeated every 4 to 6 hours. 2.2 Exercise-Induced Bronchospasm The usual dosage for adults and children 4 years of age or older is two inhalations 15 to 30 minutes before exercise. 2.3 Administration Information Administer Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol by oral inhalation only. To maintain proper use of this product and to prevent medication build-up and blockage, it is important to follow the cleaning directions carefully. Priming: Prime the inhaler before using for the first time and in cases where the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks by releasing three sprays into the air, away from the face. Cleaning: As with all HFA-containing albuterol inhalers, to maintain proper use of this product and to prevent medication build-up and blockage, it is important to clean the plastic mouthpiece regularly. The inhaler may cease to deliver medication if the plastic actuator mouthpiece is not properly cleaned and dried. To clean: Wash the plastic mouthpiece with warm running water for 30 seconds, shake off excess water, and air dry thoroughly at least once a week. If the patient has more than one Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol inhaler, the patient should wash each one separately to prevent attaching the wrong canister to the wrong plastic actuator. In this way, the patient can be sure to always know the correct number of remaining doses. Never attach a canister of medication from any other inhaler to the Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol actuator and never attach the Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol canister to an actuator from any other inhaler. If it is necessary to use the inhaler before it is completely dry, shake off excess water, replace canister, spray twice into the air away from face, and take the prescribed dose. After such use, the mouthpiece should be rewashed and allowed to air dry thoroughly. [ see FDA-Approved Patient Labeling ( 17.9 )] . Dose Counter: Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol has a dose counter attached to the actuator. When the patient receives the inhaler, the number 200 will appear slightly to the right of the viewing window until it has been primed 3 times, at which point the number 200 will be displayed. The dose counter will count down each time a spray is released. When the dose counter reaches 20, the color of the background will change to red to remind the patient to contact their pharmacist for a refill of medication or consult their physician for a prescription refill. This color will remain when the dose counter reaches 0. Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol inhaler should be discarded when the dose counter displays 0 or after the expiration date on the product, whichever comes first. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate inhalation solution is one 3 mL vial administered 4 times per day via nebulization with up to 2 additional 3 mL doses allowed per day, if needed. Safety and efficacy of additional doses or increased frequency of administration of ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate inhalation solution beyond these guidelines has not been studied and the safety and efficacy of extra doses of albuterol sulfate or ipratropium bromide in addition to the recommended doses of ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate inhalation solution have not been studied. The use of ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate inhalation solution can be continued as medically indicated to control recurring bouts of bronchospasm. If a previously effective regimen fails to provide the usual relief, medical advice should be sought immediately, as this is often a sign of worsening COPD, which would require reassessment of therapy. A Pari-LC-Plus™ nebulizer (with face mask or mouthpiece) connected to a PRONEB™ compressor was used to deliver ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate inhalation solution to each patient in one U.S. clinical study. The safety and efficacy of ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate inhalation solution delivered by other nebulizers and compressors have not been established. Ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate inhalation solution should be administered via jet nebulizer connected to an air compressor with an adequate air flow, equipped with a mouthpiece or suitable face mask. ( 2.3 ) • Albuterol sulfate inhalation aerosol inhaler should be discarded when the dose indicator displays 0 or after the expiration date on the product, whichever comes first. Priming Prime the inhaler before using for the first time and in cases where the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks by releasing three sprays into the air, away from the face. Cleaning As with all HFA-containing albuterol inhalers, to maintain proper use of this product and to prevent medication build-up and blockage, it is important to clean the plastic mouthpiece regularly. To clean: Wash the plastic mouthpiece with warm running water for 30 seconds, shake off excess water, and air dry thoroughly at least once a week . After such use, the mouthpiece should be rewashed and allowed to air dry thoroughly [see FDA-APPROVED PATIENT LABELING ( 17.9 )] . Dose Indicator Albuterol sulfate inhaler comes with a dose indicator appearing as small window above the plastic mouthpiece. A new inhaler first shows "200" in the dose indicator window. The dose indicator will show the approximate number of actuations (sprays) of medicine remaining in the inhaler. As you use the inhaler, the dose indicator will typically rotate during every 5 to 7 actuations (sprays) towards the next decreasing number. When the dose indicator displays "40," where the background changes from white to red to remind the patient to contact their pharmacist for a refill of medication or consult their physician for a prescription refill. The background color will be all red when the indicator approaches 20. The indicator will stop moving at "0". Albuterol sulfate inhaler should be discarded when the dose indicator displays "0" or after the expiration date on the product, whichever comes first. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and Children 2 to 12 Years of Age The usual dosage for adults and for children weighing at least 15 kg is 2.5 mg of albuterol (one vial) administered three to four times daily by nebulization. Children weighing <15 kg who require <2.5 mg/dose (i.e., less than a full vial) should use albuterol inhalation solution, 0.5% instead of albuterol inhalation solution, 0.083%. To administer 2.5 mg of albuterol, administer the entire contents of one sterile unit dose vial (3 mL of 0.083% inhalation solution) by nebulization. If a previously effective dosage regimen fails to provide the usual relief, medical advice should be sought immediately, as this is often a sign of seriously worsening asthma which would require reassessment of therapy. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For oral inhalation only Treatment or prevention of bronchospasm in adults and children 4 years of age and older: 2 inhalations every 4 to 6 hours. ( 2.1 ) Prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm in adults and children 4 years of age and older: 2 inhalations 15 to 30 minutes before exercise. ( 2.2 ) Priming information: Prime Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol before using for the first time, or when the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks. ( 2.3 ) Cleaning information: At least once a week, wash the actuator with warm water, shake off excess, and air dry thoroughly. ( 2.3 ) Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol inhaler should be discarded when the dose counter displays 0 or after the expiration date on the product, whichever comes first. [see FDA-Approved Patient Labeling ( 17.9 ) ] . The use of albuterol sulfate inhalation solution can be continued as medically indicated to control recurring bouts of bronchospasm.
Warnings: WARNINGS As with other inhaled beta-adrenergic agonists, albuterol inhalation solution can produce paradoxical bronchospasm, which can be life threatening. If it occurs, the preparation should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted. Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs and with the home use of nebulizers. It is, therefore, essential that the physician instruct the patient in the need for further evaluation, if his/her asthma becomes worse. In individual patients, any beta 2 -adrenergic agonist, including albuterol solution for inhalation, may have a clinically significant cardiac effect. Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of albuterol as demonstrated by rare cases of urticaria, angioedema, rash, bronchospasm, and oropharyngeal edema. WARNINGS 1. Paradoxical Bronchospasm: Inhaled albuterol sulfate can produce paradoxical bronchospasm that may be life threatening. If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs, Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted. It should be recognized that paradoxical bronchospasm, when associated with inhaled formulations, frequently occurs with the first use of a new canister. 2. Deterioration of Asthma: Asthma may deteriorate acutely over a period of hours or chronically over several days or longer. If the patient needs more doses of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol than usual, this may be a marker of destabilization of asthma and requires re-evaluation of the patient and treatment regimen, giving special consideration to the possible need for anti-inflammatory treatment, e.g., corticosteroids. 3. Use of Anti-inflammatory Agents: The use of beta-adrenergic-agonist bronchodilators alone may not be adequate to control asthma in many patients. Early consideration should be given to adding anti-inflammatory agents, e.g., corticosteroids, to the therapeutic regimen. Cardiovascular Effects: Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol, like other beta-adrenergic agonists, can produce clinically significant cardiovascular effects in some patients as measured by pulse rate, blood pressure, and/or symptoms. Although such effects are uncommon after administration of Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol at recommended doses, if they occur, the drug may need to be discontinued. In addition, beta-agonists have been reported to produce ECG changes, such as flattening of the T wave, prolongation of the QTc interval, and ST segment depression. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Therefore, Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol, like all sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency, cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. 4. Do Not Exceed Recommended Dose: Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs in patients with asthma. The exact cause of death is unknown, but cardiac arrest following an unexpected development of a severe acute asthmatic crisis and subsequent hypoxia is suspected. 5. Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions: Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of albuterol sulfate, as demonstrated by rare cases of urticaria, angioedema, rash, bronchospasm, anaphylaxis, and oropharyngeal edema. WARNINGS Paradoxical Bronchospasm : In the clinical study of ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate, paradoxical bronchospasm was not observed. However, paradoxical bronchospasm has been observed with both inhaled ipratropium bromide and albuterol products and can be life-threatening. If this occurs, ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted. Do Not Exceed Recommended Dose : Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled products containing sympathomimetic amines and with the home use of nebulizers. Cardiovascular Effect : Ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate, like other beta adrenergic agonists, can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by pulse rate, blood pressure, and/or symptoms. Although such effects are uncommon for ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate at recommended doses, if they occur, the drug may need to be discontinued. In addition, beta agonists have been reported to produce ECG changes, such as flattening of the T-wave, prolongation of the QTc interval, and ST segment depression. Therefore, ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate, like other sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency, cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions : Immediate hypersensitivity reactions to albuterol and/or ipratropium bromide may occur after the administration of ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate as demonstrated by rare cases of urticaria, angioedema, rash, pruritus, oropharyngeal edema, bronchospasm, and anaphylaxis. WARNINGS As with other inhaled beta-adrenergic agonists, albuterol sulfate inhalation solution can produce paradoxical bronchospasm, which can be life threatening. WARNINGS Paradoxical Bronchospasm In the clinical study of Ipratropium Bromide and Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Solution, paradoxical bronchospasm was not observed. If this occurs, Ipratropium Bromide and Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Solution should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted. Do Not Exceed Recommended Dose Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled products containing sympathomimetic amines and with the home use of nebulizers. Cardiovascular Effect Ipratropium Bromide and Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Solution, like other beta adrenergic agonists, can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by pulse rate, blood pressure, and/or symptoms. Although such effects are uncommon for Ipratropium Bromide and Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Solution at recommended doses, if they occur, the drug may need to be discontinued. Therefore, Ipratropium Bromide and Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Solution, like other sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency, cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Immediate hypersensitivity reactions to albuterol and/or ipratropium bromide may occur after the administration of Ipratropium Bromide and Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Solution as demonstrated by rare cases of urticaria, angioedema, rash, pruritus, oropharyngeal edema, bronchospasm, and anaphylaxis.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Albuterol Sulfate HFA is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ), Description ( 11 )] . Hypersensitivity to any ingredient. ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Albuterol inhalation solution is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components. CONTRAINDICATIONS Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to albuterol or any other Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol components. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to albuterol and any other Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol components. Rare cases of hypersensitivity reactions, including urticaria, angioedema, and rash have been reported after the use of albuterol sulfate [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ] . Hypersensitivity to albuterol and any other Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol Components. CONTRAINDICATIONS Ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate inhalation solution is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components, or to atropine and its derivatives. Rare cases of hypersensitivity reactions, including urticaria, angioedema, and rash have been reported after the use of albuterol sulfate [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.6 )] . CONTRAINDICATIONS Albuterol sulfate inhalation solution is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Other short-acting sympathomimetic aerosol bronchodilators should not be used concomitantly with albuterol. If additional adrenergic drugs are to be administered by any route, they should be used with caution to avoid deleterious cardiovascular effects. Beta-blockers: Use with caution. May block bronchodilatory effects of beta-agonists and produce severe bronchospasm. ( 7.1 ) Diuretics: Use with caution. Electrocardiographic changes and/or hypokalemia associated with non–potassium-sparing diuretics may worsen with concomitant beta-agonists. ( 7.2 ) Digoxin: May decrease serum digoxin levels. Consider monitoring digoxin levels. ( 7.3 ) Monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants: Use with extreme caution. May potentiate effect of albuterol on vascular system. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Beta-Adrenergic Receptor Blocking Agents Beta-blockers not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as albuterol sulfate HFA, but may also produce severe bronchospasm in patients with asthma. Therefore, patients with asthma should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. However, under certain circumstances, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents for these patients; cardioselective beta-blockers could be considered, although they should be administered with caution. 7.2 Non–Potassium-Sparing Diuretics The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of non—potassium-sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of Albuterol Sulfate HFA with non–potassium-sparing diuretics. 7.3 Digoxin Mean decreases of 16% to 22% in serum digoxin levels were demonstrated after single-dose intravenous and oral administration of albuterol, respectively, to normal volunteers who had received digoxin for 10 days. The clinical relevance of these findings for patients with obstructive airway disease who are receiving inhaled albuterol and digoxin on a chronic basis is unclear. Nevertheless, it would be prudent to carefully evaluate the serum digoxin levels in patients who are currently receiving digoxin and albuterol. 7.4 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants Albuterol Sulfate HFA should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents, because the action of albuterol on the vascular system may be potentiated. Drug Interactions Other sympathomimetic aerosol bronchodilators or epinephrine should not be used concomitantly with albuterol. Albuterol should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, since the action of albuterol on the vascular system may be potentiated. Beta-receptor blocking agents and albuterol inhibit the effect of each other. Drug Interactions 1. Beta-Blockers: Beta-adrenergic-receptor blocking agents not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol, but may produce severe bronchospasm in asthmatic patients. However, under certain circumstances, e.g., as prophylaxis after myocardial infarction, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents in patients with asthma. In this setting, cardioselective beta-blockers should be considered, although they should be administered with caution. 2. Diuretics: The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia which may result from the administration of nonpotassium-sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of beta-agonists with nonpotassium-sparing diuretics. 3. Albuterol-Digoxin: Mean decreases of 16% and 22% in serum digoxin levels were demonstrated after single-dose intravenous and oral administration of albuterol, respectively, to normal volunteers who had received digoxin for 10 days. The clinical significance of these findings for patients with obstructive airway disease who are receiving albuterol and digoxin on a chronic basis is unclear; nevertheless, it would be prudent to carefully evaluate the serum digoxin levels in patients who are currently receiving digoxin and albuterol. 4. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors or Tricyclic Antidepressants: Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents, because the action of albuterol on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Other short-acting sympathomimetic aerosol bronchodilators should not be used concomitantly with Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol. • Other short-acting sympathomimetic aerosol bronchodilators and adrenergic drugs: May potentiate effect. ( 7 ) • Beta-blockers: May decrease effectiveness of Albuterol Sulfate and produce severe bronchospasm. Patients with asthma should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. ( 7.1 ) • Diuretics, or non-potassium sparing diuretics: May potentiate hypokalemia or ECG changes. Consider monitoring potassium levels. ( 7.2 ) • Digoxin: May decrease serum digoxin levels. ( 7.3 ) • Monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants: May potentiate effect of albuterol on the cardiovascular system. Consider alternative therapy in patients taking MAOs or tricyclic antidepressants. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Beta-Blockers Beta-adrenergic-receptor blocking agents not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol, but may produce severe bronchospasm in asthmatic patients. However, under certain circumstances, e.g., as prophylaxis after myocardial infarction, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-adrenergic-blocking agents in patients with asthma. In this setting, consider cardioselective beta-blockers, although they should be administered with caution. 7.2 Diuretics The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia which may result from the administration of non-potassium sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of beta-agonists with non-potassium sparing diuretics. 7.3 Digoxin Mean decreases of 16% and 22% in serum digoxin levels were demonstrated after single dose intravenous and oral administration of albuterol, respectively, to normal volunteers who had received digoxin for 10 days. The clinical significance of these findings for patients with obstructive airway disease who are receiving albuterol and digoxin on a chronic basis is unclear. Nevertheless, it would be prudent to carefully evaluate the serum digoxin levels in patients who are currently receiving digoxin and Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol. 7.4 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors or Tricyclic Antidepressants Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents, because the action of albuterol on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated. Consider alternative therapy in patients taking MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants. Drug Interactions Anticholinergic agents : Although ipratropium bromide is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation, there is some potential for an additive interaction with concomitantly used anticholinergic medications. Caution is, therefore, advised in the coadministration of ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate with other drugs having anticholinergic properties. ß-adrenergic agents : Caution is advised in the coadministration of ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate and other sympathomimetic agents due to the increased risk of adverse cardiovascular effects. ß-receptor blocking agents : These agents and albuterol sulfate inhibit the effect of each other. β-receptor blocking agents should be used with caution in patients with hyperreactive airways, and if used, relatively selective β1 selective agents are recommended. Diuretics : The electrocardiogram (ECG) changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of non-potassium sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by β-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the β-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of β-agonist-containing drugs, such as ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate, with non-potassium sparing diuretics. Monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants : Ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents because the action of albuterol sulfate on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Other short-acting sympathomimetic aerosol bronchodilators and adrenergic drugs: May potentiate effect. ( 7 ) Beta-blockers: May decrease effectiveness of albuterol sulfate and produce severe bronchospasm. ( 7.1 ) Diuretics, or non-potassium sparing diuretics: May potentiate hypokalemia or ECG changes. ( 7.3 ) Monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants: May potentiate effect of albuterol on the cardiovascular system. ( 7.4 ) Other short-acting sympathomimetic aerosol bronchodilators should not be used concomitantly with albuterol sulfate inhalation aerosol. 7.1 Beta-Blockers Beta-adrenergic-receptor blocking agents not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as albuterol sulfate inhalation aerosol, but may produce severe bronchospasm in asthmatic patients. 7.2 Diuretics The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia which may result from the administration of non- potassium sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Albuterol should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic anti-depressants, since the action of albuterol on the vascular system may be potentiated. Other short-acting sympathomimetic aerosol bronchodilators and adrenergic drugs: May potentiate effect. Drug Interactions Anticholinergic agents Although ipratropium bromide is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation, there is some potential for an additive interaction with concomitantly used anticholinergic medications. Caution is, therefore, advised in the co-administration of Ipratropium Bromide and Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Solution with other drugs having anticholinergic properties. β-adrenergic agents Caution is advised in the co-administration of Ipratropium Bromide and Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Solution and other sympathomimetic agents due to the increased risk of adverse cardiovascular effects. β-receptor blocking agents These agents and albuterol sulfate inhibit the effect of each other. β-receptor blocking agents should be used with caution in patients with hyperreactive airways, and if used, relatively selective β 1 selective agents are recommended. Diuretics The electrocardiogram (ECG) changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of non-potassium sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by β-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the β-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the co-administration of β-agonist-containing drugs, such as Ipratropium Bromide and Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Solution, with non-potassium sparing diuretics. Monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants Ipratropium Bromide and Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Solution should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents because the action of albuterol sulfate on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.

=== CARVEDILOL ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carvedilol tablets are an alpha/beta-adrenergic blocking agent indicated for the treatment of: mild to severe chronic heart failure ( 1.1 ) left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction in clinically stable patients( 1.2 ) hypertension( 1.3 ) 1.1 Heart Failure Carvedilol tablets are indicated for the treatment of mild-to-severe chronic heart failure of ischemic or cardiomyopathic origin, usually in addition to diuretics, ACE inhibitors, and digitalis, to increase survival and, also, to reduce the risk of hospitalization [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 ), Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . 1.2 Left Ventricular Dysfunction following Myocardial Infarction Carvedilol tablets are indicated to reduce cardiovascular mortality in clinically stable patients who have survived the acute phase of a myocardial infarction and have a left ventricular ejection fraction of less than or equal to 40% (with or without symptomatic heart failure) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . 1.3 Hypertension Carvedilol tablets are indicated for the management of essential hypertension [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 , 14.4 )] . It can be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents, especially thiazide-type diuretics [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carvedilol is an alpha-/beta-adrenergic blocking agent indicated for the treatment of: mild to severe chronic heart failure ( 1.1 ) left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction in clinically stable patients ( 1.2 ) hypertension ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Heart Failure Carvedilol is indicated for the treatment of mild-to-severe chronic heart failure of ischemic or cardiomyopathic origin, usually in addition to diuretics, ACE inhibitors, and digitalis, to increase survival and, also, to reduce the risk of hospitalization [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 ), Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . 1.2 Left Ventricular Dysfunction following Myocardial Infarction Carvedilol is indicated to reduce cardiovascular mortality in clinically stable patients who have survived the acute phase of a myocardial infarction and have a left ventricular ejection fraction of less than or equal to 40% (with or without symptomatic heart failure) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . 1.3 Hypertension Carvedilol is indicated for the management of essential hypertension [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 , 14.4 )] . 1. INDICATIONS AND USAGE COREG is an alpha-/beta-adrenergic blocking agent indicated for the treatment of: mild to severe chronic heart failure ( 1.1 ) left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction in clinically stable patients ( 1.2 ) hypertension ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Heart Failure COREG is indicated for the treatment of mild-to-severe chronic heart failure of ischemic or cardiomyopathic origin, usually in addition to diuretics, ACE inhibitors, and digitalis, to increase survival and, also, to reduce the risk of hospitalization [see Drug Interactions (7.4) , Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1.2 Left Ventricular Dysfunction following Myocardial Infarction COREG is indicated to reduce cardiovascular mortality in clinically stable patients who have survived the acute phase of a myocardial infarction and have a left ventricular ejection fraction of less than or equal to 40% (with or without symptomatic heart failure) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1.3 Hypertension COREG is indicated for the management of essential hypertension [see Clinical Studies (14.3 , 14.4) ]. It can be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents, especially thiazide-type diuretics [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carvedilol is an alpha-/beta-adrenergic blocking agent indicated for the treatment of: mild to severe chronic heart failure ( 1.1 ) left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction in clinically stable patients (1.2) hypertension (1.3) 1.1 Heart Failure Carvedilol tablets are indicated for the treatment of mild-to-severe chronic heart failure of ischemic or cardiomyopathic origin, usually in addition to diuretics, ACE inhibitors, and digitalis, to increase survival and, also, to reduce the risk of hospitalization [see Drug Interactions (7.4) , Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . 1.2 Left Ventricular Dysfunction following Myocardial Infarction Carvedilol tablets are indicated to reduce cardiovascular mortality in clinically stable patients who have survived the acute phase of a myocardial infarction and have a left ventricular ejection fraction of less than or equal to 40% (with or without symptomatic heart failure) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . 1.3 Hypertension Carvedilol tablets are indicated for the management of essential hypertension [see Clinical Studies (14.3 , 14.4) ] . It can be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents, especially thiazide-type diuretics [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ] . INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carvedilol tablets, USP is an alpha/beta-adrenergic blocking agent indicated for the treatment of: • Left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction in clinically stable patients( 1.1 ) • Hypertension( 1.2 ) 1.1 Left Ventricular Dysfunction Following Myocardial Infarction Carvedilol tablets, USP are indicated to reduce cardiovascular mortality in clinically stable patients who have survived the acute phase of a myocardial infarction and have a left ventricular ejection fraction of ≤40% (with or without symptomatic heart failure) [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. 1.2 Hypertension Carvedilol tablets, USP are indicated for the management of essential hypertension [see Clinical Studies (14.2)] . It can be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents, especially thiazide-type diuretics [see Drug Interactions (7.2)]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules are an alpha-/beta-adrenergic blocking agent indicated for the treatment of: mild to severe chronic heart failure. ( 1.1 ) left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction in clinically stable patients. ( 1.2 ) hypertension ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Heart Failure Carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules are indicated for the treatment of mild-to-severe chronic heart failure of ischemic or cardiomyopathic origin, usually in addition to diuretics, ACE inhibitors, and digitalis, to increase survival and, also, to reduce the risk of hospitalization [see Drug Interactions (7.4) , Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1.2 Left Ventricular Dysfunction following Myocardial Infarction Carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules are indicated to reduce cardiovascular mortality in clinically stable patients who have survived the acute phase of a myocardial infarction and have a left ventricular ejection fraction of less than or equal to 40% (with or without symptomatic heart failure) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1.3 Hypertension Carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules are indicated for the management of essential hypertension [see Clinical Studies (14.3 , 14.4) ] .
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take with food. Individualize dosage and monitor during up-titration. ( 2 ) Heart failure: Start at 3.125 mg twice daily and increase to 6.25, 12.5, and then 25 mg twice daily over intervals of at least 2 weeks. Maintain lower doses if higher doses are not tolerated. ( 2.1 ) Left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction: Start at 6.25 mg twice daily and increase to 12.5 mg then 25 mg twice daily after intervals of 3 to 10 days. A lower starting dose or slower titration may be used.( 2.2 ) Hypertension: Start at 6.25 mg twice daily and increase if needed for blood pressure control to 12.5 mg and then 25 mg twice daily over intervals of 1 to 2 weeks.( 2.3 ) Carvedilol should be taken with food to slow the rate of absorption and reduce the incidence of orthostatic effects. 2.1 Heart Failure DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED AND CLOSELY MONITORED BY A PHYSICIAN DURING UP-TITRATION. Prior to initiation of Carvedilol tablets, it is recommended that fluid retention be minimized. The recommended starting dose of Carvedilol tablets are 3.125 mg twice daily for 2 weeks. If tolerated, patients may have their dose increased to 6.25, 12.5, and 25 mg twice daily over successive intervals of at least 2 weeks. Patients should be maintained on lower doses if higher doses are not tolerated. A maximum dose of 50 mg twice daily has been administered to patients with mild-to-moderate heart failure weighing over 85 kg (187 lbs). Patients should be advised that initiation of treatment and (to a lesser extent) dosage increases may be associated with transient symptoms of dizziness or lightheadedness (and rarely syncope) within the first hour after dosing. During these periods, patients should avoid situations such as driving or hazardous tasks, where symptoms could result in injury. Vasodilatory symptoms often do not require treatment, but it may be useful to separate the time of dosing of Carvedilol tablets from that of the ACE inhibitor or to reduce temporarily the dose of the ACE inhibitor. The dose of Carvedilol tablets should not be increased until symptoms of worsening heart failure or vasodilation have been stabilized. Fluid retention (with or without transient worsening heart failure symptoms) should be treated by an increase in the dose of diuretics. The dose of Carvedilol tablets should be reduced if patients experience bradycardia (heart rate less than 55 beats per minute). Episodes of dizziness or fluid retention during initiation of Carvedilol tablets can generally be managed without discontinuation of treatment and do not preclude subsequent successful titration of, or a favorable response to, carvedilol. 2.2 Left Ventricular Dysfunction following Myocardial Infarction DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED AND MONITORED DURING UP-TITRATION. Treatment with carvedilol tablets may be started as an inpatient or outpatient and should be started after the patient is hemodynamically stable and fluid retention has been minimized. It is recommended that carvedilol tablets be started at 6.25 mg twice daily and increased after 3 to 10 days, based on tolerability, to 12.5 mg twice daily, then again to the target dose of 25 mg twice daily. A lower starting dose may be used (3.125 mg twice daily) and/or the rate of up-titration may be slowed if clinically indicated (e.g., due to low blood pressure or heart rate, or fluid retention). The recommended dosing regimen need not be altered in patients who received treatment with an IV or oral β-blocker during the acute phase of the myocardial infarction. 2.3 Hypertension DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED. The recommended starting dose of carvedilol tablets are 6.25 mg twice daily. If this dose is tolerated, using standing systolic pressure measured about 1 hour after dosing as a guide, the dose should be maintained for 7 to 14 days, and then increased to 12.5 mg twice daily if needed, based on trough blood pressure, again using standing systolic pressure 1 hour after dosing as a guide for tolerance. This dose should also be maintained for 7 to 14 days and can then be adjusted upward to 25 mg twice daily if tolerated and needed. The full antihypertensive effect of carvedilol tablets are seen within 7 to 14 days. Total daily dose should not exceed 50 mg. Concomitant administration with a diuretic can be expected to produce additive effects and exaggerate the orthostatic component of carvedilol action. 2.4 Hepatic Impairment Carvedilol tablets should not be given to patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carvedilol tablets should be taken with food to slow the rate of absorption and reduce the incidence of orthostatic effects. Take with food. A lower starting dose or slower titration may be used. ( 2.2 ) Hypertension: Start at 6.25 mg twice daily and increase if needed for blood pressure control to 12.5 mg then 25 mg twice daily over intervals of 1 to 2 weeks. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Heart Failure DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED AND CLOSELY MONITORED BY A PHYSICIAN DURING UP-TITRATION. Prior to initiation of carvedilol, it is recommended that fluid retention be minimized. The recommended starting dose of carvedilol tablets is 3.125 mg twice daily for 2 weeks. Vasodilatory symptoms often do not require treatment, but it may be useful to separate the time of dosing of carvedilol from that of the ACE inhibitor or to reduce temporarily the dose of the ACE inhibitor. The recommended starting dose of carvedilol tablets is 6.25 mg twice daily. The full antihypertensive effect of carvedilol tablets is seen within 7 to 14 days. 2.4 Hepatic Impairment Carvedilol should not be given to patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION COREG should be taken with food to slow the rate of absorption and reduce the incidence of orthostatic effects. ( 2 ) Heart failure: Start at 3.125 mg twice daily and increase to 6.25, 12.5, and then 25mg twice daily over intervals of at least 2 weeks. ( 2.1 ) Left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction. Start at 6.25 mg twice daily and increase to 12.5 mg then 25 mg twice daily after intervals of 3 to 10 days. ( 2.2 ) Hypertension: Start at 6.25 mg twice daily and increase if needed for blood pressure control to 12.5 mg and then 25 mg twice daily over intervals of 1 to 2 weeks. Prior to initiation of COREG, it is recommended that fluid retention be minimized. The recommended starting dose of COREG is 3.125 mg twice daily for 2 weeks. A maximum dose of 50 mg twice daily has been administered to patients with mild-to-moderate heart failure weighing over 85 kg (187 lbs.). Vasodilatory symptoms often do not require treatment, but it may be useful to separate the time of dosing of COREG from that of the ACE inhibitor or to reduce temporarily the dose of the ACE inhibitor. The dose of COREG should not be increased until symptoms of worsening heart failure or vasodilation have been stabilized. The dose of COREG should be reduced if patients experience bradycardia (heart rate less than 55 beats per minute). Episodes of dizziness or fluid retention during initiation of COREG can generally be managed without discontinuation of treatment and do not preclude subsequent successful titration of, or a favorable response to, carvedilol. Treatment with COREG may be started as an inpatient or outpatient and should be started after the patient is hemodynamically stable and fluid retention has been minimized. It is recommended that COREG be started at 6.25 mg twice daily and increased after 3 to 10 days, based on tolerability, to 12.5 mg twice daily, then again to the target dose of 25 mg twice daily. The recommended starting dose of COREG is 6.25 mg twice daily. The full antihypertensive effect of COREG is seen within 7 to 14 days. 2.4 Hepatic Impairment COREG should not be given to patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Contraindications (4) ]. 2.4 Hepatic Impairment Carvedilol tablets should not be given to patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Contraindications (4) ] . 2. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take with food. ( 2 ) • Left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction: Start at 6.25 mg twice daily and increase to 12.5 mg then 25 mg twice daily after intervals of 3 to 10 days. A lower starting dose or slower titration may be used.( 2.1 ) • Hypertension: Start at 6.25 mg twice daily and increase if needed for blood pressure control to 12.5 mg then 25 mg twice daily over intervals of 1 to 2 weeks.( 2.2 ) Carvedilol should be taken with food to slow the rate of absorption and reduce the incidence of orthostatic effects. 2.1 Left Ventricular Dysfunction Following Myocardial Infarction DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED AND MONITORED DURING UP-TITRATION. 2.2 Hypertension DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED. If this dose is tolerated, using standing systolic pressure measured about 1 hour after dosing as a guide, the dose should be maintained for 7 to 14 days, and then increased to 12.5 mg twice daily if needed, based on trough blood pressure, again using standing systolic pressure one hour after dosing as a guide for tolerance. The full antihypertensive effect of carvedilol tablet is seen within 7 to 14 days. 2.3 Hepatic Impairment Carvedilol tablets should not be given to patients with severe hepatic impairment [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules are intended for once-daily administration. Patients controlled with immediate-release carvedilol tablets alone or in combination with other medications may be switched to carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules based on the total daily doses shown in Table 1. Table 1. Dosing Conversion Daily Dose of Immediate-Release Carvedilol Tablets Daily Dose of Carvedilol Phosphate Extended-Release Capsules* 6.25 mg (3.125 mg twice daily) 10 mg once daily 12.5 mg (6.25 mg twice daily) 20 mg once daily 25 mg (12.5 mg twice daily) 40 mg once daily 50 mg (25 mg twice daily) 80 mg once daily * When switching from carvedilol 12.5 mg or 25 mg twice daily, a starting dose of carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules 20 mg or 40 mg once daily, respectively, may be warranted for elderly patients or those at increased risk of hypotension, dizziness, or syncope. Subsequent titration to higher doses should, as appropriate, be made after an interval of at least 2 weeks. Carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules should be taken once daily in the morning with food. Carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules should be swallowed as a whole capsule. Carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules and/or its contents should not be crushed, chewed, or taken in divided doses. Alternative Administration The capsules may be carefully opened and the beads sprinkled over a spoonful of applesauce. The applesauce should not be warm because it could affect the modified-release properties of this formulation. The mixture of drug and applesauce should be consumed immediately in its entirety. The drug and applesauce mixture should not be stored for future use. Absorption of the beads sprinkled on other foods has not been tested. Do not crush or chew capsules. ( 2 ) Heart failure: Start at 10 mg once daily and increase to 20 mg, 40 mg, and then 80 mg once daily over intervals of at least 2 weeks. ( 2.1 ) Left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction: Start at 20 mg once daily and increase to 40 mg then 80 mg once daily after intervals of 3 to 10 days. ( 2.2 ) Hypertension: Start at 20 mg once daily and increase if needed for blood pressure control to 40 mg then 80 mg once daily over intervals of 1 to 2 weeks. ( 2.3 ) Elderly patients (greater than 65 years of age): When switching from higher doses of immediate-release carvedilol to carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules, a lower starting dose should be considered to reduce the risk of hypotension and syncope. ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Heart Failure DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED AND CLOSELY MONITORED BY A PHYSICIAN DURING UP-TITRATION. Prior to initiation of carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules, it is recommended that fluid retention be minimized. The recommended starting dose of carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsule is 10 mg once daily for 2 weeks. Patients who tolerate a dose of 10 mg once daily may have their dose increased to 20 mg, 40 mg, and 80 mg over successive intervals of at least 2 weeks. Thus, during these periods, they should avoid situations such as driving or hazardous tasks, where symptoms could result in injury. Vasodilatory symptoms often do not require treatment, but it may be useful to separate the time of dosing of carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules from that of the ACE inhibitor or to reduce temporarily the dose of the ACE inhibitor. The dose of carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules should not be increased until symptoms of worsening heart failure or vasodilation have been stabilized. The dose of carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules should be reduced if patients experience bradycardia (heart rate less than 55 beats per minute). Episodes of dizziness or fluid retention during initiation of carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules can generally be managed without discontinuation of treatment and do not preclude subsequent successful titration of, or a favorable response to, carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules. Treatment with carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules may be started as an inpatient or outpatient and should be started after the patient is hemodynamically stable and fluid retention has been minimized. It is recommended that carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules be started at 20 mg once daily and increased after 3 to 10 days, based on tolerability, to 40 mg once daily, then again to the target dose of 80 mg once daily. A lower starting dose may be used (10 mg once daily) and/or the rate of up-titration may be slowed if clinically indicated (e.g., due to low blood pressure or heart rate, or fluid retention). The recommended dosing regimen need not be altered in patients who received treatment with an IV or oral beta-blocker during the acute phase of the myocardial infarction. The recommended starting dose of carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsule is 20 mg once daily. If this dose is tolerated, using standing systolic pressure measured about one hour after dosing as a guide, the dose should be maintained for 7 to 14 days, and then increased to 40 mg once daily if needed, based on trough blood pressure, again using standing systolic pressure one hour after dosing as a guide for tolerance. This dose should also be maintained for 7 to 14 days and can then be adjusted upward to 80 mg once daily if tolerated and needed. Although not specifically studied, it is anticipated the full antihypertensive effect of carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules would be seen within 7 to 14 days as had been demonstrated with immediate-release carvedilol. Total daily dose should not exceed 80 mg. 2.4 Hepatic Impairment Carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules should not be given to patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Contraindications (4) ] . 2.5 Geriatric Use When switching elderly patients (aged 65 years or older) who are taking the higher doses of immediate-release carvedilol tablets (25 mg twice daily) to carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules, a lower starting dose (40 mg) of carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules are recommended to minimize the potential for dizziness, syncope, or hypotension [see Dosage and Administration (2) ] . Patients who have switched and who tolerate carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules should, as appropriate, have their dose increased to after an interval of at least 2 weeks [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ] .
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions. ( 4 ) Second- or third-degree AV block. ( 4 ) Sick sinus syndrome. ( 4 ) Severe bradycardia (unless permanent pacemaker in place). ( 4 ) Patients in cardiogenic shock or decompensated heart failure requiring the use of IV inotropic therapy. ( 4 ) Severe hepatic impairment. ( 2.4 , 4 ) History of serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., Stevens-Johnson syndrome, anaphylactic reaction, angioedema) to any component of this medication or other medications containing carvedilol. ( 4 ) Carvedilol tablets are contraindicated in the following conditions: Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions. Deaths from status asthmaticus have been reported following single doses of carvedilol tablets. Second- or third-degree AV block. Sick sinus syndrome. Severe bradycardia (unless a permanent pacemaker is in place). Patients with cardiogenic shock or who have decompensated heart failure requiring the use of intravenous inotropic therapy. Such patients should first be weaned from intravenous therapy before initiating carvedilol tablets. Patients with severe hepatic impairment. Patients with a history of a serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., Stevens-Johnson syndrome, anaphylactic reaction, angioedema) to any component of this medication or other medications containing carvedilol. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Carvedilol is contraindicated in the following conditions: Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions. Deaths from status asthmaticus have been reported following single doses of carvedilol. Such patients should first be weaned from intravenous therapy before initiating carvedilol. Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS COREG is contraindicated in the following conditions: Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions. Deaths from status asthmaticus have been reported following single doses of COREG. Such patients should first be weaned from intravenous therapy before initiating COREG. (4) Severe hepatic impairment ( 2.4 , 4 ) History of serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., Stevens-Johnson syndrome, anaphylactic reaction, angioedema) to any component of this medication or other medications containing carvedilol. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Carvedilol tablets are contraindicated in the following conditions: Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions. 4. CONTRAINDICATIONS • Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions ( 4 ) • Second- or third-degree AV block ( 4 ) • Sick sinus syndrome ( 4 ) • Severe bradycardia (unless permanent pacemaker in place) ( 4 ) • Patients in cardiogenic shock or decompensated heart failure requiring the use of IV inotropic therapy. ( 4 ) • Severe hepatic impairment ( 2.3 , 4 ) • History of serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., Stevens-Johnson syndrome, anaphylactic reaction, angioedema) to carvedilol, any of the components of carvedilol ( 4 ) Carvedilol tablets are contraindicated in the following conditions: • Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions. • Second- or third-degree AV block • Sick sinus syndrome • Severe bradycardia (unless a permanent pacemaker is in place) • Patients with cardiogenic shock or who have decompensated heart failure requiring the use of intravenous inotropic therapy. Such patients should first be weaned from intravenous therapy before initiating carvedilol tablets • Patients with severe hepatic impairment • Patients with a history of a serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., Stevens-Johnson syndrome, anaphylactic reaction, angioedema) to carvedilol, any of the components of carvedilol tablets. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules are contraindicated in the following conditions: Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions. Deaths from status asthmaticus have been reported following single doses of immediate-release carvedilol. Such patients should first be weaned from intravenous therapy before initiating carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules. Patients with a history of a serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., Stevens-Johnson syndrome, anaphylactic reaction, angioedema) to carvedilol or any of the components of carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules. ( 2.4 , 4 ) History of serious hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., Stevens-Johnson syndrome, anaphylactic reaction, angioedema) to carvedilol or any of the components of carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP P450 2D6 enzyme inhibitors may increase and rifampin may decrease carvedilol levels. ( 7.1 , 7.5 ) Hypotensive agents (e.g., reserpine, MAO inhibitors, clonidine) may increase the risk of hypotension and/or severe bradycardia. ( 7.4 ) Cyclosporine or digoxin levels may increase. ( 7.3 , 7.4 ) Both digitalis glycosides and β-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia. ( 7.4 ) Amiodarone may increase carvedilol levels resulting in further slowing of the heart rate or cardiac conduction. ( 7.6 ) Verapamil- or diltiazem-type calcium channel blockers may affect ECG and/or blood pressure. ( 7.7 ) Insulin and oral hypoglycemics action may be enhanced. ( 7.8 ) 7.1 CYP2D6 Inhibitors and Poor Metabolizers Interactions of carvedilol with potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 isoenzyme (such as quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine, and propafenone) have not been studied, but these drugs would be expected to increase blood levels of the R(+) enantiomer of carvedilol [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Retrospective analysis of side effects in clinical trials showed that poor 2D6 metabolizers had a higher rate of dizziness during up-titration, presumably resulting from vasodilating effects of the higher concentrations of the α-blocking R(+) enantiomer. 7.2 Hypotensive Agents Patients taking a β-blocker and a drug that can deplete catecholamines (e.g., reserpine and monoamine oxidase inhibitors) should be observed closely for signs of hypotension and/or severe bradycardia. Concomitant administration of clonidine with a β-blocker may cause hypotension and bradycardia. When concomitant treatment with a β-blocker and clonidine is to be terminated, the β-blocker should be discontinued first. Clonidine therapy can then be discontinued several days later by gradually decreasing the dosage. 7.3 Cyclosporine Modest increases in mean trough cyclosporine concentrations were observed following initiation of carvedilol treatment in 21 renal transplant subjects suffering from chronic vascular rejection. In about 30% of subjects, the dose of cyclosporine had to be reduced in order to maintain cyclosporine concentrations within the therapeutic range, while in the remainder no adjustment was needed. On the average for the group, the dose of cyclosporine was reduced about 20% in these subjects. Due to wide interindividual variability in the dose adjustment required, it is recommended that cyclosporine concentrations be monitored closely after initiation of carvedilol therapy and that the dose of cyclosporine be adjusted as appropriate. 7.4 Digitalis Glycosides Both digitalis glycosides and β-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Digoxin concentrations are increased by about 15% when digoxin and carvedilol are administered concomitantly. Therefore, increased monitoring of digoxin is recommended when initiating, adjusting, or discontinuing carvedilol tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] . 7.5 Inducers/Inhibitors of Hepatic Metabolism Rifampin reduced plasma concentrations of carvedilol by about 70% [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] . Cimetidine increased AUC by about 30% but caused no change in C max [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] . 7.6 Amiodarone Amiodarone and its metabolite desethyl amiodarone, inhibitors of CYP2C9, and P-glycoprotein increased concentrations of the S(-)-enantiomer of carvedilol by at least 2 fold [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] . The concomitant administration of amiodarone or other CYP2C9 inhibitors such as fluconazole with carvedilol may enhance the β-blocking activity, resulting in further slowing of the heart rate or cardiac conduction. Patients should be observed for signs of bradycardia or heart block, particularly when one agent is added to pre-existing treatment with the other. 7.7 Calcium Channel Blockers Conduction disturbance (rarely with hemodynamic compromise) has been observed when carvedilol tablet is coadministered with diltiazem. As with other β-blocker, if carvedilol tablet is administered with calcium channel blockers of the verapamil or diltiazem type, it is recommended that ECG and blood pressure be monitored. 7.8 Insulin or Oral Hypoglycemics β-blocker may enhance the blood-sugar-reducing effect of insulin and oral hypoglycemics. Therefore, in patients taking insulin or oral hypoglycemics, regular monitoring of blood glucose is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] . 7.9 Anesthesia If treatment with carvedilol is to be continued perioperatively, particular care should be taken when anesthetic agents that depress myocardial function, such as ether, cyclopropane, and trichloroethylene, are used [ see Overdosage ( 10 )] . ( 7.2 ) Cyclosporine or digoxin levels may increase. Therefore, increased monitoring of digoxin is recommended when initiating, adjusting, or Carvedilol tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] . 7.7 Calcium Channel Blockers Conduction disturbance (rarely with hemodynamic compromise) has been observed when carvedilol is coadministered with diltiazem. As with other β -blockers, if is administered with calcium channel blockers of the verapamil or diltiazem type, it is recommended that ECG and blood pressure be monitored. 7.8 Insulin or Oral Hypoglycemics β-blockers may enhance the blood-sugar-reducing effect of insulin and oral hypoglycemics. 7.9 Anesthesia If treatment with carvedilol tablets is to be continued perioperatively, particular care should be taken when anesthetic agents that depress myocardial function, such as ether, cyclopropane, and trichloroethylene, are used [see Overdosage ( 10 )] . ( 7.8 ) 7.1 CYP2D6 Inhibitors and Poor Metabolizers Interactions of carvedilol with potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 isoenzyme (such as quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine, and propafenone) have not been studied, but these drugs would be expected to increase blood levels of the R(+) enantiomer of carvedilol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Therefore, increased monitoring of digoxin is recommended when initiating, adjusting, or discontinuing COREG [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] . 7.5 Inducers/Inhibitors of Hepatic Metabolism Rifampin reduced plasma concentrations of carvedilol by about 70% [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] . Cimetidine increased AUC by about 30% but caused no change in C max [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] . 7.6 Amiodarone Amiodarone and its metabolite desethyl amiodarone, inhibitors of CYP2C9, and P- glycoprotein increased concentrations of the S(-)-enantiomer of carvedilol by at least 2 fold [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. The concomitant administration of amiodarone or other CYP2C9 inhibitors such as fluconazole with COREG may enhance the β-blocking activity resulting in further slowing of the heart rate or cardiac conduction. 7.7 Calcium Channel Blockers Conduction disturbance (rarely with hemodynamic compromise) has been observed when COREG is coadministered with diltiazem. As with other β-blockers, if COREG is administered with calcium channel blockers of the verapamil or diltiazem type, it is recommended that ECG and blood pressure be monitored. Therefore, in patients taking insulin or oral hypoglycemics, regular monitoring of blood glucose is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. 7.9 Anesthesia If treatment with COREG is to be continued perioperatively, particular care should be taken when anesthetic agents that depress myocardial function, such as ether, cyclopropane, and trichloroethylene, are used [see Overdosage (10) ]. (7.7) Insulin and oral hypoglycemics action may be enhanced. (7.8) 7.1 CYP2D6 Inhibitors and Poor Metabolizers Interactions of carvedilol with potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 isoenzyme (such as quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine, and propafenone) have not been studied, but these drugs would be expected to increase blood levels of the R(+) enantiomer of carvedilol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Therefore, increased monitoring of digoxin is recommended when initiating, adjusting, or discontinuing carvedilol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] . 7.5 Inducers/Inhibitors of Hepatic Metabolism Rifampin reduced plasma concentrations of carvedilol by about 70% [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. 7.6 Amiodarone Amiodarone and its metabolite desethyl amiodarone, inhibitors of CYP2C9, and P-glycoprotein increased concentrations of the S(-)-enantiomer of carvedilol by at least 2 fold [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] . As with other β-blockers, if carvedilol is administered with calcium channel blockers of the verapamil or diltiazem type, it is recommended that ECG and blood pressure be monitored. Therefore, in patients taking insulin or oral hypoglycemics, regular monitoring of blood glucose is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . 7.9 Anesthesia If treatment with carvedilol is to be continued perioperatively, particular care should be taken when anesthetic agents that depress myocardial function, such as ether, cyclopropane, and trichloroethylene, are used [see Overdosage (10) ] . 7. DRUG INTERACTIONS • CYP P450 2D6 enzyme inhibitors may increase and rifampin may decrease carvedilol levels. ( 7.1 , 7.5 ) • Hypotensive agents (e.g., reserpine, MAO inhibitors, clonidine) may increase the risk of hypotension and/or severe bradycardia. ( 7.2 ) • Cyclosporine or digoxin levels may increase. ( 7.3 , 7.4 ) • Both digitalis glycosides and β-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. ( 7.4 ) • Amiodarone may increase carvedilol levels resulting in further slowing of the heart rate or cardiac conduction. ( 7.6 ) • Verapamil- or diltiazem-type calcium channel blockers may affect ECG and/or blood pressure. (7.6) • Insulin and oral hypoglycemics action may be enhanced. (7.7) 7.1 CYP2D6 Inhibitors and Poor Metabolizers Interactions of carvedilol with potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 isoenzyme (such as quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine, and propafenone) have not been studied, but these drugs would be expected to increase blood levels of the R(+) enantiomer of carvedilol [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. 7.2 Hypotensive Agents Patients taking both agents with β-blocking properties and a drug that can deplete catecholamines (e.g., reserpine and monoamine oxidase inhibitors) should be observed closely for signs of hypotension and/or severe bradycardia. Concomitant administration of clonidine with agents with β-blocking properties may potentiate blood-pressure and heart-rate-lowering effects. When concomitant treatment with agents with β-blocking properties and clonidine is to be terminated, the β-blocking agent should be discontinued first. 7.3 Cyclosporine Modest increases in mean trough cyclosporine concentrations were observed following initiation of carvedilol treatment in 21 renal transplant patients suffering from chronic vascular rejection. In about 30% of patients, the dose of cyclosporine had to be reduced in order to maintain cyclosporine concentrations within the therapeutic range, while in the remainder no adjustment was needed. On the average for the group, the dose of cyclosporine was reduced about 20% in these patients. Therefore, increased monitoring of digoxin is recommended when initiating, adjusting, or discontinuing Carvedilol tablets [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.5) ]. Cimetidine increased AUC by about 30% but caused no change in C max [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.5) ]. 7.6 Amiodarone Amiodarone, and its metabolite desethyl amiodarone, inhibitors of CYP2C9 and P385 glycoprotein, increased concentrations of the S(-) enantiomer of carvedilol by at least 2-fold [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.5)]. The concomitant administration of amiodarone or other CYP2C9 inhibitors such as fluconazole with carvedilol may enhance the β-blocking properties of carvedilol resulting in further slowing of the heart rate or cardiac conduction. 7.7 Calcium Channel Blockers Conduction disturbance (rarely with hemodynamic compromise) has been observed when carvedilol tablet is co-administered with diltiazem. As with other agents with β-blocking properties, if carvedilol tablet is to be administered with calcium channel blockers of the verapamil or diltiazem type, it is recommended that ECG and blood pressure be monitored. 7.8 Insulin or Oral Hypoglycemics Agents with β-blocking properties may enhance the blood-sugar-reducing effect of insulin and oral hypoglycemics. Therefore, in patients taking insulin or oral hypoglycemics, regular monitoring of blood glucose is recommended [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.6)]. 7.9 Anesthesia If treatment with carvedilol extended-release capsules is to be continued perioperatively, particular care should be taken when anesthetic agents which depress myocardial function, such as ether, cyclopropane, and trichloroethylene, are used [see OVERDOSAGE (10) ]. ( 7.3 , 7.4 ) Both digitalis glycosides and beta-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. ( 7.8 ) 7.1 CYP2D6 Inhibitors and Poor Metabolizers Interactions of carvedilol with potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 isoenzyme (such as quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine, and propafenone) have not been studied, but these drugs would be expected to increase blood levels of the R(+) enantiomer of carvedilol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Retrospective analysis of side effects in clinical trials showed that poor 2D6 metabolizers had a higher rate of dizziness during up-titration, presumably resulting from vasodilating effects of the higher concentrations of the alpha-blocking R(+) enantiomer. 7.2 Hypotensive Agents Patients taking a beta-blocker and a drug that can deplete catecholamines (e.g., reserpine and monoamine oxidase inhibitors) should be observed closely for signs of hypotension and/or severe bradycardia. Concomitant administration of clonidine with a beta-blocker may cause hypotension and bradycardia. When concomitant treatment with a beta-blocker and clonidine is to be terminated, the beta-blocker should be discontinued first. 7.4 Digitalis Glycosides Both digitalis glycosides and beta-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Therefore, increased monitoring of digoxin is recommended when initiating, adjusting, or discontinuing carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. Cimetidine increased area under the curve (AUC) by about 30% but caused no change in C max [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. 7.6 Amiodarone Amiodarone and its metabolite desethyl amiodarone, inhibitors of CYP2C9, and P-glycoprotein increased concentrations of the S(–) enantiomer of carvedilol by at least 2 fold [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] . The concomitant administration of amiodarone or other CYP2C9 inhibitors such as fluconazole with carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules may enhance the beta-blocking activity, resulting in further slowing of the heart rate or cardiac conduction. 7.7 Calcium Channel Blockers Conduction disturbance (rarely with hemodynamic compromise) has been observed when carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules are co-administered with diltiazem. As with other beta-blockers, if carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsules are administered with calcium channel blockers of the verapamil or diltiazem type, it is recommended that ECG and blood pressure be monitored. 7.8 Insulin or Oral Hypoglycemics Beta-blockers may enhance the blood-sugar-reducing effect of insulin and oral hypoglycemics. 7.9 Proton Pump Inhibitors There is no clinically meaningful increase in AUC and C max with concomitant administration of carvedilol extended-release capsules with pantoprazole. 7.10 Anesthesia If treatment with carvedilol phosphate extended-release capsule is to be continued perioperatively, particular care should be taken when anesthetic agents that depress myocardial function, such as ether, cyclopropane, and trichloroethylene, are used [see Overdosage (10) ] .

=== WHITE PETROLATUM ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Analgesic Protectant Protectant Purpose Skin protectant Purpose Skin Protectant Uses temporarily protects minor: cuts, scrapes, burns helps relieve, prevent and temporarily protect chaged, chapped or cracked skin Purposes Protectant Vasoconstrictor Local anesthetic Protectant Purpose White Petrolatum 30%.................Skin Protectant Zinc Oxide 10%...........................Skin Protectant
Indications: Uses for the temporary relief of anorectal itching and discomfort in the perianal area associated with anorectal inflammation temporarily forms a protective coating over inflamed tissues to help prevent drying of tissues temporarily protects irritated areas temporarily relieves burning provides temporary relief from skin irritations temporarily protects the inflamed irritated anorectal surface to help make bowel movements less painful temporarily protects inflamed perianal skin temporarily relieves the symptoms of perianal skin irritation may provide a cooling sensation Uses temporarily protects minor cuts, scrapes, and burns temporarily protects and helps relieve chapped or cracked skin Uses temporarily protects minor cuts, scrapes and burns helps prevent and temporarily protects and helps relieve chapped or cracked skin helps treat and prevent diaper rash. Protects minor skin irritation associated with diaper rash and helps seal out wetness Uses temporarily protects minor cuts scrapes burns temporarily protects and helps relieve chapped or cracked skin and lips helps protect from the drying effects of wind and cold weather Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Uses • for temporary relief of pain, soreness and burning • helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids • temporarily shrinks hemorrhoidal tissue • temporarily provides a coating for relief of anorectal discomforts • temporarily protects the inflamed, irritated anorectal surface to help make bowel movements less painful Uses helps prevent and temporarily protects chafed, chapped or cracked lips helps prevent and protect from the drying effects of wind and cold weather Use temporarily protects minor: cuts scrapes burns temporarily protects and helps relieve chapped or cracked skin and lips helps protect from the drying effects of wind and cold weather Uses Helps treat and prevent rashes Protects chafed skin from wetness Uses Temporarily Protects: minor cuts, scrapes, burns and helps relieve chapped or cracked skin and lips from the drying effects of wind and cold weather
Dosage: Directions adults : when practical, cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly. Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product. Apply to the affected area up to 6 times daily Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Directions for skin protection: apply as needed for diaper rash: change wet and soiled diapers promptly, cleanse the diaper area, and allow to dry apply liberally, as often as necessary, with each diaper change, especially at bedtime or any time when exposure to wet diapers may be prolonged Directions for skin protection: apply as needed for diaper rash: change wet and soiled diapers promptly, cleanse the diaper area, and allow to dry. Apply product liberally as often as necessary , with each diaper change, especially at bedtime or anytime when exposure to wet diapers may be prolonged Directions apply as needed Directions for cuts, scrapes, and bums Clean affected area with soap and water apply frequently enoughto infected areas to prevent a scab from forming Directions adults: when practical, cleanse the affected area by patting or blotting with an appropriate cleansing wipe. Gently dry by patting or blotting with a tissue or a soft cloth before applying cream. when first opening the tube, peel off the foil seal apply externally or in the lower portion of the anal canal only apply externally to the affected area up to 4 times daily, especially at night, in the morning or after each bowel movement for application in the lower anal canal: remove cover from dispensing cap. Attach dispensing cap to tube. Lubricate dispensing cap well, then gently insert dispensing cap partway into the anus. thoroughly cleanse dispensing cap after each use and replace cover children under 12 years of age: ask a doctor Directions Cleanse and dry the affected area Spray 4-6" from the skin and allow time to dry Apply as needed Dosage Applied as needed.
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Allergy Alert: Certain persons can develop allergic reactions to ingredients in this product. If the symptom being treated does not subside or if redness, irritation, swelling, pain, or other symptoms develop or increase, discontinue use and consult a doctor Do not use on deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns When using this product do not get into eyes do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days in case of bleeding Keep out of reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Do not use on deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns When using this product do not get into eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms last for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again withinn a few days Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Do not use on deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns When using this product do not get into eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms last for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children. Warnings For external use only. Warnings When using this product do not get into eyes Do not use on deep or punctured wounds animal bites serious burns Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease high blood pressure thyroid disease diabetes difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug for high blood pressure or depression. When using this product do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor do not put into rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if bleeding occurs condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days an allergic reaction develops the symptom being treated does not subside or if redness, irritation, swelling, pain or other symptoms develop or increase If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug for high blood pressure or depression. Warnings For external use only Warnings Flammable For external use only When using this product Do not get into eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if Condition worsens Symptoms last more than 7 days or clears up and occur again within a few days Keep out of the reach of children. Warning For External Use Only

=== CLONIDINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clonidine hydrochloride tablets are indicated in the treatment of hypertension. Clonidine hydrochloride tablets may be employed alone or concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clonidine hydrochloride tablets USP are indicated in the treatment of hypertension. Clonidine hydrochloride tablets USP may be employed alone or concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) as monotherapy and as adjunctive therapy to stimulant medications [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . Clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets are a centrally acting alpha 2 -adrenergic agonist indicated for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy to stimulant medications. ( 1 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clonidine hydrochloride tablets, USP are indicated in the treatment of hypertension. Clonidine hydrochloride tablets, USP may be employed alone or concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets is indicated for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) as monotherapy and as adjunctive therapy to stimulant medications [see Clinical Studies (14) ]. Clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets is a centrally acting alpha2-adrenergic agonist indicated for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy to stimulant medications. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clonidine hydrochloride is indicated in the treatment of hypertension. Clonidine hydrochloride may be employed alone or concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults: The dose of clonidine hydrochloride tablets must be adjusted according to the patient’s individual blood pressure response. The following is a general guide to its administration. Initial Dose: 0.1 mg tablet twice daily (morning and bedtime). Elderly patients may benefit from a lower initial dose. Maintenance Dose: Further increments of 0.1 mg per day may be made at weekly intervals if necessary until the desired response is achieved. Taking the larger portion of the oral daily dose at bedtime may minimize transient adjustment effects of dry mouth and drowsiness. The therapeutic doses most commonly employed have ranged from 0.2 mg to 0.6 mg per day given in divided doses. Studies have indicated that 2.4 mg is the maximum effective daily dose, but doses as high as this have rarely been employed. Renal Impairment: Patients with renal impairment may benefit from a lower initial dose. Patients should be carefully monitored. Since only a minimal amount of clonidine is removed during routine hemodialysis, there is no need to give supplemental clonidine following dialysis. For questions regarding this product, call Teva at 1-888-838-2872. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults The dose of clonidine hydrochloride tablets USP must be adjusted according to the patient’s individual blood pressure response. Initial Dose 0.1 mg tablet twice daily (morning and bedtime). Maintenance Dose Further increments of 0.1 mg per day may be made at weekly intervals if necessary until the desired response is achieved. Renal Impairment Patients with renal impairment may benefit from a lower initial dose. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Start with one 0.1 mg tablet at bedtime for one week. Increase daily dosage in increments of 0.1 mg/day at weekly intervals until the desired response is achieved. Take twice a day, with either an equal or higher split dosage being given at bedtime, as depicted below ( 2.2 ) Total Daily Dose Morning Dose Bedtime Dose 0.1 mg/day 0.1 mg 0.2 mg/day 0.1 mg 0.1 mg 0.3 mg/day 0.1 mg 0.2 mg 0.4 mg/day 0.2 mg 0.2 mg Do not crush, chew or break tablet before swallowing. ( 2.1 ) Do not substitute for other clonidine products on a mg-per-mg basis, because of differing pharmacokinetic profiles. ( 2.1 ) When discontinuing, taper the dose in decrements of no more than 0.1 mg every 3 to 7 days to avoid rebound hypertension. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 General Dosing Information Clonidine hydrochloride is an extended-release tablet to be taken orally with or without food. Swallow tablets whole. Do not crush, chew, or break tablets because this will increase the rate of clonidine release. Due to the lack of controlled clinical trial data and differing pharmacokinetic profiles, substitution of clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets for other clonidine products on a mg-per-mg basis is not recommended [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.2 Dose Selection The dose of clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets administered either as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy to a psychostimulant, should be individualized according to the therapeutic needs and response of the patient. Dosing should be initiated with one 0.1 mg tablet at bedtime, and the daily dosage should be adjusted in increments of 0.1 mg/day at weekly intervals until the desired response is achieved. Doses should be taken twice a day, with either an equal or higher split dosage being given at bedtime (see Table 1). Table 1 Clonidine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Dosing Guidance Total Daily Dose Morning Dose Bedtime Dose 0.1 mg/day 0.1 mg 0.2 mg/day 0.1 mg 0.1 mg 0.3 mg/day 0.1 mg 0.2 mg 0.4 mg/day 0.2 mg 0.2 mg Doses of clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets higher than 0.4 mg/day (0.2 mg twice daily) were not evaluated in clinical trials for ADHD and are not recommended. When a clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablet is being added-on to a psychostimulant, the dose of the psychostimulant can be adjusted depending on the patient's response to clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets. 2.3 Discontinuation When discontinuing clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets, the total daily dose should be tapered in decrements of no more than 0.1 mg every 3 to 7 days to avoid rebound hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . 2.4 Missed Doses If patients miss a dose of clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets, they should skip that dose and take the next dose as scheduled. Do not take more than the prescribed total daily amount of clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets in any 24-hour period. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults The dose of clonidine hydrochloride tablets must be adjusted according to the patient's individual blood pressure response. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 General Dosing Information Clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets is an extended-release tablet to be taken orally with or without food. 2.2 Dose Selection The dose of clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets, administered either as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy to a psychostimulant, should be individualized according to the therapeutic needs and response of the patient. Doses should be taken twice a day, with either an equal or higher split dosage being given at bedtime (see Table 1 ). When clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets is being added-on to a psychostimulant, the dose of the psychostimulant can be adjusted depending on the patient's response to clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults The dose of clonidine hydrochloride USP must be adjusted according to the patient's individual blood pressure response. Patients should be carefully monitored.Since only a minimal amount of clonidine is removed during routine hemodialysis, there is no need to give supplemental clonidine followingdialysis.
Warnings: WARNINGS Withdrawal Patients should be instructed not to discontinue therapy without consulting their physician. Sudden cessation of clonidine treatment has, in some cases, resulted in symptoms such as nervousness, agitation, headache, and tremor accompanied or followed by a rapid rise in blood pressure and elevated catecholamine concentrations in the plasma. The likelihood of such reactions to discontinuation of clonidine therapy appears to be greater after administration of higher doses or continuation of concomitant beta-blocker treatment and special caution is therefore advised in these situations. Rare instances of hypertensive encephalopathy, cerebrovascular accidents and death have been reported after clonidine withdrawal. When discontinuing therapy with clonidine hydrochloride tablets, the physician should reduce the dose gradually over 2 to 4 days to avoid withdrawal symptomatology. An excessive rise in blood pressure following discontinuation of clonidine hydrochloride tablets therapy can be reversed by administration of oral clonidine hydrochloride or by intravenous phentolamine. If therapy is to be discontinued in patients receiving a beta-blocker and clonidine concurrently, the beta-blocker should be withdrawn several days before the gradual discontinuation of clonidine hydrochloride tablets. Because children commonly have gastrointestinal illnesses that lead to vomiting, they may be particularly susceptible to hypertensive episodes resulting from abrupt inability to take medication. When discontinuing therapy with clonidine hydrochloride tablets USP, the physician should reduce the dose gradually over 2 to 4 days to avoid withdrawal symptomatology. An excessive rise in blood pressure following discontinuation of clonidine hydrochloride tablets USP therapy can be reversed by administration of oral clonidine hydrochloride or by intravenous phentolamine. If therapy is to be discontinued in patients receiving a beta-blocker and clonidine concurrently, the beta-blocker should be withdrawn several days before the gradual discontinuation of clonidine hydrochloride tablets USP. When discontinuing therapy with clonidine, the physician should reduce the dose gradually over 2 to 4 days to avoid withdrawal symptomatology. An excessive rise in blood pressure following discontinuation of clonidine therapy can be reversed by administration of oral clonidine hydrochloride or by intravenous phentolamine. If therapy is to be discontinued in patients receiving a beta-blocker and clonidine concurrently, the beta-blocker should be withdrawn several days before the gradual discontinuation of clonidine. WARNINGS Withdrawal: Patients should be instructed not to discontinue therapy without consulting their physician. When discontinuing therapy with clonidine hydrochloride, the physician should reduce the dose gradually over 2 to 4 days to avoid withdrawal symptomatology. An excessive rise in blood pressure following discontinuation of clonidine hydrochloride therapy can be reversed by administration of oral clonidine hydrochloride or by intravenous phentolamine. If therapy is to be discontinued in patients receiving a beta-blocker and clonidine concurrently, the beta-blocker should be withdrawn several days before the gradual discontinuation of clonidine hydrochloride.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Clonidine hydrochloride tablets should not be used in patients with known hypersensitivity to clonidine (see PRECAUTIONS ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Clonidine hydrochloride tablets USP should not be used in patients with known hypersensitivity to clonidine (see PRECAUTIONS ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of a hypersensitivity reaction to clonidine. Reactions have included generalized rash, urticaria, and angioedema [see Adverse Reactions (6) ] . History of a hypersensitivity reaction to clonidine. Reactions have included generalized rash, urticaria, angioedema. ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Clonidine hydrochloride tablets should not be used in patients with known hypersensitivity to clonidine (see PRECAUTIONS ) . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets is contraindicated in patients with a history of a hypersensitivity reaction to clonidine.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Clonidine may potentiate the CNS-depressive effects of alcohol, barbiturates or other sedating drugs. If a patient receiving clonidine hydrochloride is also taking tricyclic antidepressants, the hypotensive effect of clonidine may be reduced, necessitating an increase in the clonidine dose. If a patient receiving clonidine is also taking neuroleptics, orthostatic regulation disturbances (e.g., orthostatic hypotension, dizziness, fatigue) may be induced or exacerbated. Monitor heart rate in patients receiving clonidine concomitantly with agents known to affect sinus node function or AV nodal conduction, e.g., digitalis, calcium channel blockers, and beta-blockers. Sinus bradycardia resulting in hospitalization and pacemaker insertion has been reported in association with the use of clonidine concomitantly with diltiazem or verapamil. Amitriptyline in combination with clonidine enhances the manifestation of corneal lesions in rats (see Toxicology ). Based on observations in patients in a state of alcoholic delirium it has been suggested that high intravenous doses of clonidine may increase the arrhythmogenic potential (QT-prolongation, ventricular fibrillation) of high intravenous doses of haloperidol. Causal relationship and relevance for clonidine oral tablets have not been established. Toxicology In several studies with oral clonidine hydrochloride, a dose-dependent increase in the incidence and severity of spontaneous retinal degeneration was seen in albino rats treated for six months or longer. Tissue distribution studies in dogs and monkeys showed a concentration of clonidine in the choroid. In view of the retinal degeneration seen in rats, eye examinations were performed during clinical trials in 908 patients before, and periodically after, the start of clonidine therapy. In 353 of these 908 patients, the eye examinations were carried out over periods of 24 months or longer. Except for some dryness of the eyes, no drug-related abnormal ophthalmological findings were recorded and, according to specialized tests such as electroretinography and macular dazzle, retinal function was unchanged. In combination with amitriptyline, clonidine hydrochloride administration led to the development of corneal lesions in rats within 5 days. Monitor heart rate in patients receiving clonidine concomitantly with agents known to affect sinus node function or AV nodal conduction, e.g., digitalis, calcium channel blockers and beta-blockers. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The following have been reported with other oral immediate release formulations of clonidine: Table 6 Clinically Important Drug Interactions Concomitant Drug Name or Drug Class Clinical Rationale Clinical Recommendation Tricyclic antidepressants Increase blood pressure and may counteract clonidine’s hypotensive effects Monitor blood pressure and adjust as needed Antihypertensive drugs Potentiate clonidine’s hypotensive effects Monitor blood pressure and adjust as needed CNS depressants Potentiate sedating effects Avoid use Drugs that affect sinus node function or AV node conduction (e.g., digitalis, calcium channel blockers, beta blockers) Potentiate bradycardia and risk of AV block Avoid use Sedating Drugs: Clonidine may potentiate the CNS-depressive effects of alcohol, barbiturates or other sedating drugs. ( 7 ) Tricyclic Antidepressants: May reduce the hypotensive effect of clonidine. ( 7 ) Drugs Known to Affect Sinus Node Function or AV Nodal Conduction: Caution is warranted in patients receiving clonidine concomitantly with agents known to affect sinus node function or AV nodal conduction (e.g., digitalis, calcium channel blockers and beta-blockers) due to a potential for additive effects such as bradycardia and AV block. ( 7 ) Antihypertensive drugs: Use caution when coadministered with clonidine hydrochloride extended-release tablets. ( 7 ) Monitor heart rate in patients receiving clonidine concomitantly with agents known to affect sinus node function or AV nodal conduction, e . g ., digitalis, calcium channel blockers, and beta-blockers. Amitriptyline in combination with clonidine enhances the manifestation of corneal lesions in rats (See Toxicology ) . Monitor heart rate in patients receiving clonidine concomitantly with agents known to affect sinus node function or AV nodal conduction, e.g. digitalis, calcium channel blockers and beta-blockers.

=== FEXOFENADINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antihistamine Purpose .Antihistamine Purpose Antihistamine Nasal Decongestant
Indications: Uses reduces hives and relieves itching due to hives (urticaria). This product will not prevent hives or an allergic skin reaction from occurring. Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: ■ runny nose ■ itchy, watery eyes ■ sneezing ■ itching of the nose or throat Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: runny nose sneezing itchy, watery eyes itching of the nose or throat temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to the common cold, hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies reduces swelling of nasal passages temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure temporarily restores freer breathing through the nose Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: runny nose itchy, watery eyes sneezing itching of the nose or throat Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: runny nose sneezing itchy, watery eyes itching of the nose or throat Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: runny nose sneezing itchy, water eyes itching of the nose or throat USE(S) temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: § runny nose § sneezing § itchy, watery eyes § itching of the nose or throat USE(S) temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: runny nose sneezing itchy, watery eyes itching of the nose or throat Use(s) temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: runny nose sneezing itchy, watery eyes itching of the nose or throat temporarily relives nasal congestion due to the common cold, hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies reduces swelling of nasal passages temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure temporarily restores freer breathing through the nose
Dosage: Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over: take one 180 mg tablet with water every once a day; do not take more than 1 tablet in 24 hours children under 12 years of age: do not use adults 65 years of age and older: ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease: ask a doctor Directions adults and children 12 years of age and take one 180 mg tablet with water once a day; do not take more than 1 tablet in 24 hours Directions do not divide, crush, chew or dissolve the tablet; swallow tablet whole adults and children 12 years of age and over take 1 tablet with a glass of water every 12 hours on an empty stomach; do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours children under 12 years of age do not use adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over take one 180 mg tablet with water once a day; do not take more than 1 tablet in 24 hours children under 6 years of age do not use adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over take one 180 mg tablet with water once a day; do not take more than 1 tablet in 24 hours children under 12 years of age do not use adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over take two 30 mg tablets with water every 12 hours; do not take more than 4 tablets in 24 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age take one tablet with water every 12 hours; do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours children under 6 years of age do not use adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor Directions place 1 tablet on tongue; tablet disintegrates, with or without water adults and children 12 years of age and over take 2 tablets every 12 hours on an empty stomach; do not take more than 4 tablets in 24 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age take 1 tablet every 12 hours on an empty stomach; do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours children under 6 years of age do not use adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor DIRECTIONS 60 mg adults and children 12 years of age and over take one 60 mg tablet with water every 12 hours; do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours children under 12 years of age do not use adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor 180 mg adults and children 12 years of age and over take one 180 mg tablet with water once a day; do not take more than 1 tablet in 24 hours children under 12 years of age do not use adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor
Warnings: Severe Allergy Warning: Get emergency help immediately if you have hives along with any of the following symptoms:  trouble swallowing  dizziness or loss of consciousness  swelling of tongue  swelling in or around mouth  trouble speaking  wheezing or problems breathing  drooling These symptoms may be signs of anaphylactic shock. This condition can be life threatening if not treated by a health professional immediately. Symptoms of anaphylactic shock may occur when hives first appear or up to a few hours later Not a Substitute for Epinephrine. If your doctor has prescribed an epinephrine injector for “anaphylaxis” or severe allergy symptoms that could occur with your hives, never use this product as a substitute for the epinephrine injector. If you have been prescribed an epinephrine injector, you should carry it with you at all times. Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Warnings Warnings Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have kidney disease. Your doctor should determine if you need a different dose. When using this product do not take more than directed do not take at the same time as aluminum or magnesium antacids do not take with fruit juices (see Directions) Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs. Seek medical help right away. If pregnant or breast-feeding: ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Severe Allergy Warning: Get emergency help immediately if you have hives along with any of the following symptoms: trouble swallowing dizziness or loss of consciousness swelling of tongue swelling in or around mouth trouble speaking drooling wheezing or problems breathing These symptoms may be signs of anaphylactic shock. This condition can be life threatening if not treated by a health professional immediately . Symptoms of anaphylactic shock may occur when hives first appear or up to a few hours later. Not a Substitue for Epinephrine. If your doctor has prescribed an epinephrine injector for "anaphylaxis" or severe allergy symptoms that could occur with your hives, never use this product as a substitute for the epinephrine injector. Do not use to prevent hives from any known cause such as: foods insect stings medicines latex or rubber gloves because this product will not stop hives from occuring. Avoiding the cause of your hives is the only way to prevent them. Hives can sometimes be serious. If you do not know the cause of your hives, see your doctor for a medical exam. Your doctor may be able to help you find a cause. If you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have kidney disease. hives that are an unusual color, look bruised or blistered hives that do not itch When using this product do not take more than directed do not take at the same time as aluminum or magnesium antacids do not take with fruit juices (see Directions) Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs. symptoms do not improve after 3 days of treatment the hives have lasted more than 6 weeks If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. Warnings Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients. Ask a doctor before use if you have kidney disease. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). When using this product do not take more than directed do not take at the same time as aluminum or magnesium antacids do not take with fruit juices (see Directions ) Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs. Warnings Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product. if you have difficulty swallowing Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease thyroid disease glaucoma high blood pressure diabetes trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland kidney disease. When using this product do not take more than directed do not take at the same time as aluminum or magnesium antacids do not take with fruit juices (see Directions) the tablet coating may be seen in the stool (this is normal). Continue to take as directed (see Directions). Stop use and ask doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs. symptoms do not improve within 7 days or are accompanied by a fever you get nervous, dizzy, or sleepless If pregnant or breast-feeding ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.

=== AZITHROMYCIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Azithromycin is a macrolide antibacterial drug indicated for the treatment of patients with mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms in the specific conditions listed below. Recommended dosages and durations of therapy in adult and pediatric patient populations vary in these indications. [see Dosage and Administration (2) ] Azithromycin is a macrolide antibacterial drug indicated for mild to moderate infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria: • Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis in adults () • Acute bacterial sinusitis in adults () • Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections in adults () • Urethritis and cervicitis in adults () • Genital ulcer disease in men () • Acute otitis media in pediatric patients (6 months of age and older) ( 1.2 ) • Community-acquired pneumonia in adults and pediatric patients (6 months of age and older) (, 1.2 ) • Pharyngitis/tonsillitis in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) (, 1.2 ) Limitation of Use: Azithromycin should not be used in patients with pneumonia who are judged to be inappropriate for oral therapy because of moderate to severe illness or risk factors. ( 1.3 ) To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of azithromycin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, azithromycin tablets should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. () 1.1 Adult Patients • Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis due to Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis, or Streptococcus pneumoniae . • Acute bacterial sinusitis due to Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis. or Streptococcus pneumoniae . • Community-acquired pneumonia due to Chlamydophila pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae , Mycoplasma pneumoniae, or Streptococcus pneumoniae in patients appropriate for oral therapy. • Pharyngitis/tonsillitis caused by Streptococcus pyogenes as an alternative to first-line therapy in individuals who cannot use first-line therapy. • Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections due to Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pyogenes , or Streptococcus agalactiae . • Urethritis and cervicitis due to Chlamydia trachomatis or Neisseria gonorrhoeae . • Genital ulcer disease in men due to Haemophilus ducreyi (chancroid). Due to the small number of women included in clinical trials, the efficacy of azithromycin in the treatment of chancroid in women has not been established. 1.2 Pediatric Patients [see and ] • Acute otitis media (>6 months of age) caused by Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis , or Streptococcus pneumoniae. • Community-acquired pneumonia (>6 months of age) due to Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae , or Streptococcus pneumoniae in patients appropriate for oral therapy. • Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (>2 years of age) caused by Streptococcus pyogenes as an alternative to first-line therapy in individuals who cannot use first-line therapy. 1.3 Limitations of Use Azithromycin should not be used in patients with pneumonia who are judged to be inappropriate for oral therapy because of moderate to severe illness or risk factors such as any of the following: • patients with cystic fibrosis, • patients with nosocomial infections, • patients with known or suspected bacteremia, • patients requiring hospitalization, • elderly or debilitated patients, or • patients with significant underlying health problems that may compromise their ability to respond to their illness (including immunodeficiency or functional asplenia). 1.4 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of azithromycin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, azithromycin tablets should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Azithromycin tablets are a macrolide antibacterial drug indicated for mild to moderate infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria: Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis in adults ( 1.1 ) Acute bacterial sinusitis in adults ( 1.1 ) Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections in adults ( 1.1 ) Urethritis and cervicitis in adults ( 1.1 ) Genital ulcer disease in men ( 1.1 ) Acute otitis media in pediatric patients (6 months of age and older) ( 1.2 ) Community-acquired pneumonia in adults and pediatric patients (6 months of age and older) ( 1.1 , 1.2 ) Pharyngitis/tonsillitis in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) ( 1.1 , 1.2 ) Limitation of Use: Azithromycin should not be used in patients with pneumonia who are judged to be inappropriate for oral therapy because of moderate to severe illness or risk factors. ( 1.4 ) Azithromycin tablets are a macrolide antibacterial drug indicated for the treatment of patients with mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms in the specific conditions listed below. [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 )] 1.1 Adult Patients Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis due to Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis, or Streptococcus pneumoniae . Acute bacterial sinusitis due to Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis or Streptococcus pneumoniae . Community-acquired pneumonia due to Chlamydophila pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae , Mycoplasma pneumoniae, or Streptococcus pneumoniae in patients appropriate for oral therapy. Pharyngitis/tonsillitis caused by Streptococcus pyogenes as an alternative to first-line therapy in individuals who cannot use first-line therapy. Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections due to Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pyogenes , or Streptococcus agalactiae . Urethritis and cervicitis due to Chlamydia trachomatis or Neisseria gonorrhoeae . Genital ulcer disease in men due to Haemophilus ducreyi (chancroid). 1.2 Pediatric Patients [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.4 ) and CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.2 )] Acute otitis media ( >6 months of age) caused by Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis, or Streptococcus pneumoniae. Community-acquired pneumonia ( >6 months of age) due to Chlamydophila pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae , Mycoplasma pneumoniae , or Streptococcus pneumoniae in patients appropriate for oral therapy. Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (>2 years of age) caused by Streptococcus pyogenes as an alternative to first-line therapy in individuals who cannot use first-line therapy. 1.3 Limitations of Use Azithromycin should not be used in patients with pneumonia who are judged to be inappropriate for oral therapy because of moderate to severe illness or risk factors such as any of the following: patients with cystic fibrosis, patients with nosocomial infections, patients with known or suspected bacteremia, patients requiring hospitalization, elderly or debilitated patients, or patients with significant underlying health problems that may compromise their ability to respond to their illness (including immunodeficiency or functional asplenia). 1.4 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of azithromycin and other antibacterial drugs, azithromycin should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE AzaSite ® is indicated for the treatment of bacterial conjunctivitis caused by susceptible isolates of the following microorganisms: CDC coryneform group G Efficacy for this organism was studied in fewer than 10 infections. Haemophilus influenzae Staphylococcus aureus Streptococcus mitis group Streptococcus pneumoniae AzaSite is a macrolide antimicrobial indicated for the treatment of bacterial conjunctivitis caused by susceptible isolates of the following microorganisms: CDC coryneform group G, Haemophilus influenzae, Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus mitis group, and Streptococcus pneumoniae. ( 1 ) [see Dosage and Administration (2) ] Azithromycin is a macrolide antibacterial drug indicated for mild to moderate infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria: Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis in adults ( 1.1 ) Acute bacterial sinusitis in adults ( 1.1 ) Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections in adults ( 1.1 ) Urethritis and cervicitis in adults ( 1.1 ) Genital ulcer disease in men ( 1.1 ) Acute otitis media in pediatric patients (6 months of age and older) ( 1.2 ) Community-acquired pneumonia in adults and pediatric patients (6 months of age and older) ( 1.1 , 1.2 ) Pharyngitis/tonsillitis in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) ( 1.1 , 1.2 ) Limitation of Use: Azithromycin should not be used in patients with pneumonia who are judged to be inappropriate for oral therapy because of moderate to severe illness or risk factors. ( 1.3 ) To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of azithromycin and other antibacterial drugs, azithromycin should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Adult Patients Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis due to Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis, or Streptococcus pneumoniae . Acute bacterial sinusitis due to Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis. 1.2 Pediatric Patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Clinical Studies (14.2) ] Acute otitis media ( > 6 months of age ) caused by Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis, or Streptococcus pneumoniae Community-acquired pneumonia ( > 6 months of age ) due to Chlamydophila pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae , Mycoplasma pneumonia , or Streptococcus pneumoniae in patients appropriate for oral therapy. Pharyngitis/tonsillitis ( > 2 years of age ) caused by Streptococcus pyogenes as an alternative to first-line therapy in individuals who cannot use first-line therapy. Azithromycin is a macrolide antibacterial drug indicated for mild to moderate infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria: Mycobacterial Infections ( 1.2 ) To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of azithromycin and other antibacterial drugs, azithromycin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. ( 1.3 ) 1.2 Mycobacterial Infections Prophylaxis of Disseminated Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) Disease Azithromycin tablets, taken alone or in combination with rifabutin at its approved dose, are indicated for the prevention of disseminated MAC disease in persons with advanced HIV infection. [see Dosage and Administration (2) ] Treatment of Disseminated MAC Disease Azithromycin tablets, taken in combination with ethambutol, are indicated for the treatment of disseminated MAC infections in persons with advanced HIV infection . [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Clinical Studies (14.1) ] 1.3 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of azithromycin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, azithromycin tablets should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. 1.2 Pediatric Patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Clinical Studies (14.2) ] Acute otitis media (>6 months of age) caused by Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis , or Streptococcus pneumoniae. Community-acquired pneumonia (>6 months of age) due to Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae , or Streptococcus pneumoniae in patients appropriate for oral therapy. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Azithromycin tablets are a macrolide antibacterial drug indicated for the treatment of patients with mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms in the specific conditions listed below. Azithromycin tablets are a macrolide antibacterial indicated for mild to moderate infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria: Mycobacterial Infections ( 1.2 ) To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of azithromycin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, azithromycin tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. ( 1.3 ) 1.2 Mycobacterial Infections Prophylaxis of Disseminated Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) Disease Azithromycin tablets, taken alone or in combination with rifabutin at its approved dose, are indicated for the prevention of disseminated MAC disease in persons with advanced HIV infection [see Dosage and Administration (2) ] . Treatment of Disseminated MAC Disease Azithromycin tablets, taken in combination with ethambutol, are indicated for the treatment of disseminated MAC infections in persons with advanced HIV infection [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . 1.3 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of azithromycin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, azithromycin tablets should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Adult Patients ( ) Infection Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Community-acquired pneumonia (mild severity) Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (second-line therapy) Skin/skin structure (uncomplicated) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5. Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis (mild to moderate) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 or 500 mg once daily for 3 days. Acute bacterial sinusitis 500 mg once daily for 3 days. Genital ulcer disease (chancroid) Non-gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 1 gram dose. Gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 2 gram dose. • Pediatric Patients ( ) Infection Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Acute otitis media (6 months of age and older) 30 mg/kg as a single dose or 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days or 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg/day on Days 2 through 5. Acute bacterial sinusitis (6 months of age and older) 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days. Community-acquired pneumonia (6 months of age and older) 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg once daily on Days 2 through 5. Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (2 years of age and older) 12 mg/kg once daily for 5 days. 2.1 Adult Patients [see and ] Infection* Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Community-acquired pneumonia Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (second-line therapy) Skin/skin structure (uncomplicated) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 500 mg once daily for 3 days OR 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial sinusitis 500 mg once daily for 3 days Genital ulcer disease (chancroid) One single 1 gram dose Non-gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 1 gram dose Gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 2 gram dose * DUE TO THE INDICATED ORGANISMS [see ] Azithromycin tablets can be taken with or without food. 2.2 Pediatric Patients 1 Infection* Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Acute otitis media 30 mg/kg as a single dose or 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days or 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg/day on Days 2 through 5. Acute bacterial sinusitis 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days. Community-acquired pneumonia 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg once daily on Days 2 through 5. Pharyngitis/tonsillitis 12 mg/kg once daily for 5 days. * DUE TO THE INDICATED ORGANISMS [see Indications and Usage (1.2) ] 1 see dosing tables below for maximum doses evaluated by indication Azithromycin for oral suspension can be taken with or without food. PEDIATRIC DOSAGE GUIDELINES FOR OTITIS MEDIA, ACUTE BACTERIAL SINUSITIS, AND COMMUNITY-ACQUIRED PNEUMONIA (Age 6 months and above, [see ] ) Based on Body Weight OTITIS MEDIA AND COMMUNITY-ACQUIRED PNEUMONIA: (5-Day Regimen)* Dosing Calculated on 10 mg/kg/day Day 1 and 5 mg/kg/day Days 2 to 5. Weight in kG 100 mg/5 mL 100 mg/5 mL 200 mg/5 mL 200 mg/5 mL Total mg per Treatment Course Total mg per Treatment Course Day 1 Days 2 to 5 Day 1 Days 2 to 5 5 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 1.25 mL; (¼ tsp) 7.5 mL 150 mg 10 5 mL; (1tsp) 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 15 mL 300 mg 20 5 mL; (1 tsp) 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 15mL 600mg 30 7.5 mL; (1½ tsp) 5 mL; (1 tsp) 22.5 mL 900mg 40 10 mL; (2 tsp) 5 mL; (1 tsp) 30 mL 1200mg 50 + 12.5 mL; (2½ tsp) 6.25 mL; (1¼ tsp) 37.5 mL 1500mg * Effectiveness of the 3-day or 1-day regimen in pediatric patients with community-acquired pneumonia has not been established. OTITIS MEDIA AND ACUTE BACTERIAL SINUSITIS: (3-Day Regimen)* Dosing Calculated on 10 mg/kg/day. Weight 100 mg/5 mL 200 mg/5 mL Total mL per Treatment Course Total mg per Treatment Course Kg Days 1 to 3 Days 1 to 3 5 2.5 mL; (1/2 tsp) 7.5 mL 150 mg 10 5 mL; (1 tsp) 15 mL 300 mg 20 5 mL (1 tsp) 15 mL 600 mg 30 7.5 mL (1½ tsp) 22.5 mL 900 mg 40 10 mL (2 tsp) 30 mL 1200 mg 50 and above 12.5 mL (2 ½ tsp) 37.5 mL 1500 mg *Effectiveness of the 5-day or 1-day regimen in pediatric patients with acute bacterial sinusitis has not been established. OTITIS MEDIA: (1-Day Regimen) Dosing Calculated on 30 mg/kg as a single dose. Weight 200 mg/5 mL Total mL per Treatment Course Total mg per Treatment Course Kg 1-Day Regimen 5 3.75 mL;(3/4 tsp) 3.75 mL 150 mg 10 7.5 mL;(1½ tsp) 7.5 mL 300 mg 20 15 mL;(3 tsp) 15 mL 600 mg 30 22.5 mL;(4½ tsp) 22.5 mL 900 mg 40 30 mL;(6 tsp) 30 mL 1200 mg 50 and above 37.5 mL;(7½ tsp) 37.5 mL 1500 mg The safety of re-dosing azithromycin in pediatric patients who vomit after receiving 30 mg/kg as a single dose has not been established. In clinical studies involving 487 patients with acute otitis media given a single 30 mg/kg dose of azithromycin, 8 patients who vomited within 30 minutes of dosing were re-dosed at the same total dose. Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis: The recommended dose of azithromycin for children with pharyngitis/tonsillitis is 12 mg/kg once daily for 5 days. (See chart below.) PEDIATRIC DOSAGE GUIDELINES FOR PHARYNGITIS/TONSILLITIS (Age 2 years and above, [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)] ) Based on Body Weight PHARYNGITIS/TONSILLITIS: (5-Day Regimen) Dosing Calculated on 12 mg/kg/day for 5 days. Weight Day 1 to 5 Total mL Total mG 8 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 12.5 mL 500 mg 17 5 mL; (1 tsp) 25 mL 1000 mg 25 7.5 mL; (1½ tsp) 37.5 mL 1500 mg 33 10 mL; (2 tsp) 50 mL 2000 mg 40 12.5 mL; (2½ tsp) 62.5 mL 2500 mg 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult Patients ( 2.1 ) Infection Recommended Dose / Duration of Therapy Community-acquired pneumonia (mild severity) Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (second-line therapy) Skin/skin structure (uncomplicated) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5. Pediatric Patients ( 2.2 ) Infection Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Acute otitis media (6 months of age and older) 30 mg/kg as a single dose or 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days or 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg/day on Days 2 through 5. 2.1 Adult Patients [see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ( 1.1 ) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )] Infection* Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Community-acquired pneumonia Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (second-line therapy) Skin/skin structure (uncomplicated) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 500 mg once daily for 3 days OR 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial sinusitis 500 mg once daily for 3 days Genital ulcer disease (chancroid) One single 1 gram dose Non-gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 1 gram dose Gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 2 gram dose *DUE TO THE INDICATED ORGANISMS [see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ( 1.1 )] Azithromycin tablets can be taken with or without food. 2.2 Pediatric Patients Infection * Recommended Dose / Duration of Therapy Acute otitis media 30 mg/kg as a single dose or 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days or 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg/day on Days 2 through 5. *DUE TO THE INDICATED ORGANISMS [see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ( 1.2 )] 1 see dosing tables below for maximum doses evaluated by indication Azithromycin for oral suspension can be taken with or without food. PEDIATRIC DOSAGE GUIDELINES FOR OTITIS MEDIA, ACUTE BACTERIAL SINUSITIS, AND COMMUNITY-ACQUIRED PNEUMONIA (Age 6 months and above, [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS (8.4)] ) Based on Body Weight * Effectiveness of the 3-day or 1-day regimen in pediatric patients with community-acquired pneumonia has not been established. OTITIS MEDIA AND COMMUNITY-ACQUIRED PNEUMONIA: (5-Day Regimen)* Dosing Calculated on 10 mg/kg/day Day 1 and 5 mg/kg/day Days 2 to 5. Weight 100 mg/5 mL 200 mg/5 mL Total mL per Treatment Course Total mg per Treatment Course Kg Day 1 Days 2 to 5 Day 1 Days 2 to 5 5 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 1.25 mL;(¼ tsp) 7.5 mL 150 mg 10 5 mL; (1tsp) 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 15 mL 300 mg 20 5 mL; (1 tsp) 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 15 mL 600 mg 30 7.5 mL; (1½ tsp) 3.75 mL; (¾ tsp) 22.5 mL 900 mg 40 10 mL; (2 tsp) 5 mL;(1 tsp) 30 mL 1200 mg 50 and above 12.5 mL; (2½ tsp) 6.25 mL; (1¼ tsp) 37.5 mL 1500 mg * Effectiveness of the 5-day or 1-day regimen in pediatric patients with acute bacterial sinusitis has not been established. Weight 100 mg/5 mL 200 mg/5 mL Kg Days 1 to 3 Days 1 to 3 Total mL per Treatment Course Total mg per Treatment Course 5 2.5 mL; (1/2 tsp) 7.5 mL 150 mg 10 5 mL; (1 tsp) 15 mL 300 mg 20 5 mL (1 tsp) 15 mL 600 mg 30 7.5 mL (1½ tsp) 22.5 mL 900 mg 40 10 mL (2 tsp) 30 mL 1200 mg 50 and above 12.5 mL (2 ½ tsp) 37.5 mL 1500 mg OTITIS MEDIA: (1-Day Regimen) Dosing Calculated on 30 mg/kg as a single dose. Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis The recommended dose of azithromycin for children with pharyngitis/tonsillitis is 12 mg/kg once daily for 5 days. Weight 200 mg/5 mL Total mL per Treatment Course Total mg per Treatment Course Kg Day 1 to 5 8 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 12.5 mL 500 mg 17 5 mL; (1 tsp) 25 mL 1000 mg 25 7.5 mL; (1½ tsp) 37.5 mL 1500 mg 33 10 mL; (2 tsp) 50 mL 2000 mg 40 12.5 mL; (2½ tsp) 62.5 mL 2500 mg Constituting instructions for azithromycin oral suspension 300, 600, 900, 1200 mg bottles. The table below indicates the volume of water to be used for constitution: Amount of water to be added Total volume after constitution ( azithromycin content ) Azithromycin concentration after constitution 9 mL (300 mg) 15 mL (300 mg) 100 mg/5 mL 9 mL (600 mg) 15 mL (600 mg) 200 mg/5 mL 12 mL (900 mg) 22.5 mL (900 mg) 200 mg/5 mL 15 mL (1200 mg) 30 mL (1200 mg) 200 mg/5 mL Shake well before each use. Oversized bottle provides shake space. Keep tightly closed. After mixing, store suspension at 5° to 30°C (41° to 86°F) and use within 10 days. Discard after full dosing is completed. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage regimen for the treatment of bacterial conjunctivitis is: Instill 1 drop in the affected eye(s) twice daily, eight to twelve hours apart for the first two days and then instill 1 drop in the affected eye(s) once daily for the next five days. Instill 1 drop in the affected eye(s) twice daily, eight to twelve hours apart for the first two days and then instill 1 drop in the affected eye(s) once daily for the next five days. ( 2 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage for the treatment of bacterial conjunctivitis is: Instill 1 drop in the affected eye(s) twice daily, eight to twelve hours apart for the first two days and then instill 1 drop in the affected eye(s) once daily for the next five days. 2.2 Administration Instructions Wash hands prior to using AzaSite. Invert the closed bottle (upside down) and shake once before each use. Remove the tan cap with the bottle still in the inverted position. Tilt head back, and with bottle inverted, gently squeeze bottle to instill one drop into the affected eye(s). Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may (1) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and (2) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by AzaSite (azithromycin ophthalmic solution) or other antibacterial drugs in the future. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult Patients ( 2.1 ) Infection Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Community-acquired pneumonia (mild severity) Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (second-line therapy) Skin/skin structure (uncomplicated) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis (mild to moderate) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 or 500 mg once daily for 3 days Acute bacterial sinusitis 500 mg once daily for 3 days Genital ulcer disease (chancroid) Non-gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 1 gram dose Gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 2 gram dose Pediatric Patients ( 2.2 ) Infection Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Acute otitis media (6 months of age and older) 30 mg/kg as a single dose or 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days or 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg/day on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial sinusitis (6 months of age and older) 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days Community-acquired pneumonia (6 months of age and older) 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (2 years of age and older) 12 mg/kg once daily for 5 days 2.1 Adult Patients [see Indications and Usage (1.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] Infection DUE TO THE INDICATED ORGANISMS [see Indications and Usage (1.1)] Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Community-acquired pneumonia Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (second-line therapy) Skin/skin structure (uncomplicated) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 500 mg once daily for 3 days OR 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial sinusitis 500 mg once daily for 3 days Genital ulcer disease (chancroid) One single 1 gram dose Non-gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 1 gram dose Gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 2 gram dose Azithromycin tablets can be taken with or without food. 2.2 Pediatric Patients 1 Infection DUE TO THE INDICATED ORGANISMS [see Indications and Usage (1.2)] Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy 1 see dosing tables below for maximum doses evaluated by indication Acute otitis media 30 mg/kg as a single dose or 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days or 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg/day on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial sinusitis 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days Community-acquired pneumonia 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Pharyngitis/tonsillitis 12 mg/kg once daily for 5 days Azithromycin for oral suspension can be taken with or without food. PEDIATRIC DOSAGE GUIDELINES FOR OTITIS MEDIA, ACUTE BACTERIAL SINUSITIS, AND COMMUNITY-ACQUIRED PNEUMONIA (Age 6 months and above, [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] ) Based on Body Weight OTITIS MEDIA AND COMMUNITY-ACQUIRED PNEUMONIA: (5-Day Regimen) Effectiveness of the 3-day or 1-day regimen in pediatric patients with community-acquired pneumonia has not been established. Dosing Calculated on 10 mg/kg/day Day 1 and 5 mg/kg/day Days 2 to 5. Weight 100 mg/5 mL 200 mg/5 mL Total mL per Treatment Course Total mg per Treatment Course Kg Day 1 Days 2 to 5 Day 1 Days 2 to 5 5 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 1.25mL; (¼ tsp) 7.5 mL 150 mg 10 5 mL; (1 tsp) 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 15 mL 300 mg 20 5 mL; (1 tsp) 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 15 mL 600 mg 30 7.5 mL; (1½ tsp) 3.75 mL; (¾ tsp) 22.5 mL 900 mg 40 10 mL; (2 tsp) 5 mL; (1 tsp) 30 mL 1,200 mg 50 and above 12.5 mL; (2½ tsp) 6.25 mL; (1¼ tsp) 37.5 mL 1,500 mg OTITIS MEDIA AND ACUTE BACTERIAL SINUSITIS: (3-Day Regimen) Effectiveness of the 5-day or 1-day regimen in pediatric patients with acute bacterial sinusitis has not been established. Dosing Calculated on 10 mg/kg/day. Weight 100 mg/5 mL 200 mg/5 mL Total mL per Treatment Course Total mg per Treatment Course Kg Days 1 to 3 Days 1 to 3 5 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 7.5 mL 150 mg 10 5 mL; (1 tsp) 15 mL 300 mg 20 5 mL; (1 tsp) 15 mL 600 mg 30 7.5 mL; (1½ tsp) 22.5 mL 900 mg 40 10 mL; (2 tsp) 30 mL 1,200 mg 50 and above 12.5 mL; (2½ tsp) 37.5 mL 1,500 mg OTITIS MEDIA: (1-Day Regimen) Dosing Calculated on 30 mg/kg as a single dose. Weight 200 mg/5 mL Total mL per Treatment Course Total mg per Treatment Course Kg 1-Day Regimen 5 3.75 mL; (3/4 tsp) 3.75 mL 150 mg 10 7.5 mL; (1½ tsp) 7.5 mL 300 mg 20 15 mL; (3 tsp) 15 mL 600 mg 30 22.5 mL; (4½ tsp) 22.5 mL 900 mg 40 30 mL; (6 tsp) 30 mL 1,200 mg 50 and above 37.5 mL; (7½ tsp) 37.5 mL 1,500 mg The safety of re-dosing azithromycin in pediatric patients who vomit after receiving 30 mg/kg as a single dose has not been established. (See chart below.) PEDIATRIC DOSAGE GUIDELINES FOR PHARYNGITIS/TONSILLITIS (Age 2 years and above, [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] ) Based on Body Weight PHARYNGITIS/TONSILLITIS: (5-Day Regimen) Dosing Calculated on 12 mg/kg/day for 5 days. Weight 200 mg/5 mL Total mL per Treatment Course Total mg per Treatment Course Kg Days 1 to 5 8 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 12.5 mL 500 mg 17 5 mL; (1 tsp) 25 mL 1,000 mg 25 7.5 mL; (1½ tsp) 37.5 mL 1,500 mg 33 10 mL; (2 tsp) 50 mL 2,000 mg 40 12.5 mL; (2½ tsp) 62.5 mL 2,500 mg 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION [see Indications and Usage (1) ] Azithromycin can be taken with or without food. However, increased tolerability has been observed when tablets are taken with food. For pediatric suspension see the prescribing information for azithromycin for oral suspension 100 mg/5 mL and 200 mg/5 mL bottles. Mycobacterial Infections ( 2.2 ) 2.2 Mycobacterial Infections Prevention of Disseminated MAC Infections The recommended dose of azithromycin tablets for the prevention of disseminated Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) disease is: 1,200 mg taken once weekly. This dose of azithromycin tablets may be combined with the approved dosage regimen of rifabutin. Treatment of Disseminated MAC Infections Azithromycin should be taken at a daily dose of 600 mg, in combination with ethambutol at the recommended daily dose of 15 mg/kg. Other antimycobacterial drugs that have shown in vitro activity against MAC may be added to the regimen of azithromycin plus ethambutol at the discretion of the physician or health care provider. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult Patients ( 2.1 ) Infection Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Community-acquired pneumonia (mild severity) Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (second-line therapy) Skin/skin structure (uncomplicated) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis (mild to moderate) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 or 500 mg once daily for 3 days Acute bacterial sinusitis 500 mg once daily for 3 days Genital ulcer disease (chancroid) Non-gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 1 gram dose Gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 2 gram dose Pediatric Patients ( 2.2 ) Infection Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Acute otitis media (6 months of age and older) 30 mg/kg as a single dose or 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days or 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg/day on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial sinusitis (6 months of age and older) 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days Community-acquired pneumonia (6 months of age and older) 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (2 years of age and older) 12 mg/kg once daily for 5 days 2.1 Adult Patients [see Indications and Usage (1.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] Infection DUE TO THE INDICATED ORGANISMS [see Indications and Usage (1.1) ] Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Community-acquired pneumonia Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (second-line therapy) Skin/skin structure (uncomplicated) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 500 mg once daily for 3 days OR 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial sinusitis 500 mg once daily for 3 days Genital ulcer disease (chancroid) One single 1 gram dose Non-gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 1 gram dose Gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 2 gram dose Azithromycin tablets can be taken with or without food. 2.2 Pediatric Patients 1 Infection DUE TO THE INDICATED ORGANISMS [see Indications and Usage (1.2) ] Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy 1 see dosing tables below for maximum doses evaluated by indication Acute otitis media 30 mg/kg as a single dose or 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days or 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg/day on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial sinusitis 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days Community-acquired pneumonia 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Pharyngitis/tonsillitis 12 mg/kg once daily for 5 days Azithromycin for oral suspension can be taken with or without food. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult Patients ( 2.1 ) Infection Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Community-acquired pneumonia (mild severity) Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (second-line therapy) Skin/skin structure (uncomplicated) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5. 2.1 Adult Patients [see Indications and Usage (1.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] Infection* Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Community-acquired pneumonia Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (second-line therapy) Skin/skin structure (uncomplicated) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 500 mg once daily for 3 days OR 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial sinusitis 500 mg once daily for 3 days Genital ulcer disease (chancroid) One single 1 gram dose Non-gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 1 gram dose Gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 2 gram dose * DUE TO THE INDICATED ORGANISMS [see Indications and Usage (1.1) ] Azithromycin tablets can be taken with or without food. PEDIATRIC DOSAGE GUIDELINES FOR OTITIS MEDIA, ACUTE BACTERIAL SINUSITIS, AND COMMUNITY-ACQUIRED PNEUMONIA (Age 6 months and above, [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] ) Based on Body Weight OTITIS MEDIA AND COMMUNITY-ACQUIRED PNEUMONIA: (5-Day Regimen)* Dosing Calculated on 10 mg/kg/day Day 1 and 5 mg/kg/day Days 2 to 5. Weight 100 mg/5 mL 200 mg/5 mL Total mL per Treatment Course Total mg per Treatment Course Kg Day 1 Days 2 to 5 Day 1 Days 2 to 5 5 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 1.25 mL; (¼ tsp) 7.5 mL 150 mg 10 5 mL; (1tsp) 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 15 mL 300 mg 20 5 mL; (1 tsp) 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 15 mL 600 mg 30 7.5 mL; (1½ tsp) 3.75 mL; (¾ tsp) 22.5 mL 900 mg 40 10 mL; (2 tsp) 5 mL; (1 tsp) 30 mL 1200 mg 50 and above 12.5 mL; (2½ tsp) 6.25 mL; (1¼ tsp) 37.5 mL 1500 mg * Effectiveness of the 3-day or 1-day regimen in pediatric patients with community-acquired pneumonia has not been established. Weight 200 mg/5 mL Total mL per Treatment Course Total mg per Treatment Course Kg Day 1 to 5 8 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 12.5 mL 500 mg 17 5 mL; (1 tsp) 25 mL 1000 mg 25 7.5 mL; (1½ tsp) 37.5 mL 1500 mg 33 10 mL; (2 tsp) 50 mL 2000 mg 40 12.5 mL; (2½ tsp) 62.5 mL 2500 mg 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION [see Indications and Usage (1) ] Not for pediatric use. For pediatric patients, please refer to the INDICATIONS AND USAGE and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION sections of the prescribing information for azithromycin for oral suspension 100 mg/5 mL and 200 mg/5 mL bottles. Azithromycin tablets may be taken without regard to food. Mycobacterial Infections ( 2.2 ) 2.2 Mycobacterial Infections Prevention of Disseminated MAC Infections The recommended dose of azithromycin tablets for the prevention of disseminated Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) disease is: 1200 mg taken once weekly. Treatment of Disseminated MAC Infections Azithromycin tablets should be taken at a daily dose of 600 mg, in combination with ethambutol at the recommended daily dose of 15 mg/kg.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Patients with known hypersensitivity to azithromycin, erythromycin, any macrolide or ketolide drug. () • Patients with a history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with prior use of azithromycin. () 4.1 Hypersensitivity Azithromycin tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to azithromycin, erythromycin, any macrolide or ketolide drug. 4.2 Hepatic Dysfunction Azithromycin tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with prior use of azithromycin. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients with known hypersensitivity to azithromycin, erythromycin, any macrolide or ketolide drug. ( 4.1 ) Patients with a history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with prior use of azithromycin. ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Azithromycin is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to azithromycin, erythromycin, any macrolide or ketolide drug. 4.2 Hepatic Dysfunction Azithromycin is contraindicated in patients with a history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with prior use of azithromycin. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Azasite is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to any component of this product. Hypersensitivity ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients with known hypersensitivity to azithromycin, erythromycin, any macrolide, or ketolide drug. ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Azithromycin is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to azithromycin, erythromycin, any macrolide, or ketolide drug. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients with known hypersensitivity to azithromycin, erythromycin, any macrolide, or ketolide antibiotic. ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Azithromycin tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to azithromycin, erythromycin, any macrolide, or ketolide drug. ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Azithromycin tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to azithromycin, erythromycin, any macrolide or ketolide drug.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Nelfinavir: Close monitoring for known adverse reactions of azithromycin, such as liver enzyme abnormalities and hearing impairment, is warranted. () • Warfarin: Use with azithromycin may increase coagulation times; monitor prothrombin time. () 7.1 Nelfinavir Co-administration of nelfinavir at steady-state with a single oral dose of azithromycin resulted in increased azithromycin serum concentrations. Although a dose adjustment of azithromycin is not recommended when administered in combination with nelfinavir, close monitoring for known adverse reactions of azithromycin, such as liver enzyme abnormalities and hearing impairment, is warranted. [see Adverse Reactions (6) ] 7.2 Warfarin Spontaneous postmarketing reports suggest that concomitant administration of azithromycin may potentiate the effects of oral anticoagulants such as warfarin, although the prothrombin time was not affected in the dedicated drug interaction study with azithromycin and warfarin. Prothrombin times should be carefully monitored while patients are receiving azithromycin and oral anticoagulants concomitantly. 7.3 Potential Drug-Drug Interaction with Macrolides Interactions with digoxin, colchicine or phenytoin have not been reported in clinical trials with azithromycin. No specific drug interaction studies have been performed to evaluate potential drug-drug interaction. However, drug interactions have been observed with other macrolide products. Until further data are developed regarding drug interactions when digoxin, colchicine or phenytoin are used with azithromycin careful monitoring of patients is advised. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Nelfinavir: Close monitoring for known adverse reactions of azithromycin, such as liver enzyme abnormalities and hearing impairment, is warranted. ( 7.1 ) Warfarin: Use with azithromycin may increase coagulation times; monitor prothrombin time. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Nelfinavir Co-administration of nelfinavir at steady-state with a single oral dose of azithromycin resulted in increased azithromycin serum concentrations. [see ADVERSE REACTIONS ( 6 )] 7.2 Warfarin Spontaneous postmarketing reports suggest that concomitant administration of azithromycin may potentiate the effects of oral anticoagulants such as warfarin, although the prothrombin time was not affected in the dedicated drug interaction study with azithromycin and warfarin. 7.3 Potential Drug-Drug Interactions with Macrolides Interactions with digoxin, colchicine or phenytoin have not been reported in clinical trials with azithromycin. No specific drug interaction studies have been performed to evaluate potential drug-drug interactions. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Nelfinavir: Close monitoring for known side effects of azithromycin, such as liver enzyme abnormalities and hearing impairment, is warranted. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Nelfinavir Coadministration of nelfinavir at steady-state with a single oral dose of azithromycin resulted in increased azithromycin serum concentrations. Although a dose adjustment of azithromycin is not recommended when administered in combination with nelfinavir, close monitoring for known adverse reactions of azithromycin, such as liver enzyme abnormalities and hearing impairment, is warranted [see Adverse Reactions (6) ] . 7.2 Warfarin Spontaneous postmarketing reports suggest that concomitant administration of azithromycin may potentiate the effects of oral anticoagulants such as warfarin, although the prothrombin time was not affected in the dedicated drug interaction study with azithromycin and warfarin.

=== FLUOXETINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluoxetine is indicated for the treatment of: Acute and maintenance treatment of Major Depressive Disorder [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Acute and maintenance treatment of obsessions and compulsions in patients with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Acute and maintenance treatment of binge-eating and vomiting behaviors in patients with moderate to severe Bulimia Nervosa [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . Acute treatment of Panic Disorder, with or without agoraphobia [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . Fluoxetine and Olanzapine in Combination is indicated for the treatment of: Acute treatment of depressive episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder. Fluoxetine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder. When using Fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . Fluoxetine capsules are a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor indicated for: Acute and maintenance treatment of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) ( 1 ) Acute and maintenance treatment of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) ( 1 ) Acute and maintenance treatment of Bulimia Nervosa ( 1 ) Acute treatment of Panic Disorder, with or without agoraphobia ( 1 ) Fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination for treatment of: Acute Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 1 ) Treatment resistant depression (Major Depressive Disorder in patients, who do not respond to 2 separate trials of different antidepressants of adequate dose and duration in the current episode). Fluoxetine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder or the treatment of treatment resistant depression. Fluoxetine capsules are a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor indicated for: Acute and maintenance treatment of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) ( 1 ) Acute and maintenance treatment of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) ( 1 ) Acute and maintenance treatment of Bulimia Nervosa ( 1 ) Acute treatment of Panic Disorder, with or without agoraphobia ( 1 ) Fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination for treatment of: Acute Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 1 ) Treatment Resistant Depression ( 1 ) Fluoxetine is indicated for the treatment of: Acute and maintenance treatment of Major Depressive Disorder [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.1)] . Acute and maintenance treatment of obsessions and compulsions in patients with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.2)] . Acute and maintenance treatment of binge-eating and vomiting behaviors in patients with moderate to severe Bulimia Nervosa [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.3)] . Acute treatment of Panic Disorder, with or without agoraphobia [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.4)] . When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax ®. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Fluoxetine capsules are indicated for the treatment of: • Acute and maintenance treatment of Major Depressive Disorder [ see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. • Acute and maintenance treatment of obsessions and compulsions in patients with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) [ see Clinical Studies (14.2 )]. • Acute and maintenance treatment of binge-eating and vomiting behaviors in patients with moderate to severe Bulimia Nervosa [ see Clinical Studies (14.3 )]. • Acute treatment of Panic Disorder, with or without agoraphobia [ see Clinical Studies (14.4 ) ]. Fluoxetine capsules and Olanzapine in Combination is indicated for the treatment of: • Acute treatment of depressive episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder. • Treatment Resistant Depression (Major Depressive Disorder in patient, who do not respond to 2 separate trials of different antidepressants of adequate dose and duration in the current episode). Fluoxetine capsules monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder or the treatment of treatment resistant depression. When using fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . Fluoxetine capsules are a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor indicated for: • Acute and maintenance treatment of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) ( 1 ) • Acute and maintenance treatment of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) ( 1 ) • Acute and maintenance treatment of Bulimia Nervosa ( 1 ) • Acute treatment of Panic Disorder, with or without agoraphobia ( 1 ) Fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination for treatment of: • Acute Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 1 ) • Treatment Resistant Depression (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluoxetine capsules are indicated for the treatment of: • Acute and maintenance treatment of Major Depressive Disorder [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . • Acute and maintenance treatment of obsessions and compulsions in patients with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . • Acute and maintenance treatment of binge-eating and vomiting behaviors in patients with moderate to severe Bulimia Nervosa [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . • Acute treatment of Panic Disorder, with or without agoraphobia [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . Fluoxetine capsules and Olanzapine in Combination are indicated for the treatment of: • Acute treatment of depressive episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder. • Treatment resistant depression (Major Depressive Disorder in patients, who do not respond to 2 separate trials of different antidepressants of adequate dose and duration in the current episode). Fluoxetine capsules are a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor indicated for: • Acute and maintenance treatment of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) ( 1 ) • Acute and maintenance treatment of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) ( 1 ) • Acute and maintenance treatment of Bulimia Nervosa ( 1 ) • Acute treatment of Panic Disorder, with or without agoraphobia ( 1 ) Fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination for treatment of: • Acute Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 1 ) • Treatment Resistant Depression ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluoxetine capsules are indicated for the treatment of: Acute and maintenance treatment of Major Depressive Disorder [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Acute and maintenance treatment of obsessions and compulsions in patients with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. Acute and maintenance treatment of binge-eating and vomiting behaviors in patients with moderate to severe Bulimia Nervosa [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . Acute treatment of Panic Disorder, with or without agoraphobia [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )]. Fluoxetine capsules and Olanzapine in Combination are indicated for the treatment of: Acute treatment of depressive episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluoxetine capsules are indicated for the treatment of: Acute and maintenance treatment of Major Depressive Disorder [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluoxetine is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor indicated for: Acute and maintenance treatment of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) in adult and pediatric patients aged 8 to 18 years. ( 1.1 ) Acute and maintenance treatment of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) in adults and pediatric patients aged 7 to 17 years. ( 1.2 ) Acute and maintenance treatment of Bulimia Nervosa in adult patients. ( 1.3 ) Acute treatment of Panic Disorder, with or without agoraphobia, in adult patients. ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Major Depressive Disorder Fluoxetine tablets are indicated for the acute and maintenance treatment of Major Depressive Disorder in adult patients and in pediatric patients aged 8 to 18 years [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . The usefulness of the drug in adult and pediatric patients receiving fluoxetine tablets for extended periods should periodically be re-evaluated [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . 1.2 Obsessive Compulsive Disorder Fluoxetine tablets are indicated for the acute and maintenance treatment of obsessions and compulsions in adult patients and in pediatric patients aged 7 to 17 years with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . The effectiveness of fluoxetine tablets in long-term use, i.e., for more than 13 weeks, has not been systematically evaluated in placebo-controlled trials. Therefore, the physician who elects to use fluoxetine tablets for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] . 1.3 Bulimia Nervosa Fluoxetine tablets are indicated for the acute and maintenance treatment of binge-eating and vomiting behaviors in adult patients with moderate to severe Bulimia Nervosa [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . The physician who elects to use fluoxetine tablets for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . 1.4 Panic Disorder Fluoxetine tablets are indicated for the acute treatment of Panic Disorder, with or without agoraphobia, in adult patients [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . The effectiveness of fluoxetine tablets in long-term use, i.e., for more than 12 weeks, has not been established in placebo-controlled trials. Therefore, the physician who elects to use fluoxetine tablets for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] .
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Adult Pediatric MDD ( 2.1 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 to 20 mg/day (initial dose) OCD ( 2.2 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Bulimia Nervosa ( 2.3 ) 60 mg/day in am Panic Disorder ( 2.4 ) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 2.5 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) A lower or less frequent dosage should be used in patients with hepatic impairment, the elderly, and for patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications ( 2.7 ) Fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination: Dosage adjustments should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability ( 2.5 ) Fluoxetine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 2.5 ) Safety of the coadministration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in adults. ( 2.5 ) Safety of the coadministration of doses above 12 mg olanzapine with 50 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in children and adolescents ages 10 to 17 ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Initial Treatment Adult — Initiate fluoxetine 20 mg/day orally in the morning. Consider a dose increase after several weeks if insufficient clinical improvement is observed. Administer doses above 20 mg/day once daily in the morning or twice daily (i.e., morning and noon). The maximum fluoxetine dose should not exceed 80 mg/day. In controlled trials used to support the efficacy of fluoxetine, patients were administered morning doses ranging from 20 to 80 mg/day. Studies comparing fluoxetine 20, 40, and 60 mg/day to placebo indicate that 20 mg/day is sufficient to obtain a satisfactory response in Major Depressive Disorder in most cases [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Pediatric (children and adolescents) — Initiate Fluoxetine 10 or 20 mg/day. After 1 week at 10 mg/day, increase the dose to 20 mg/day. However, due to higher plasma levels in lower weight children, the starting and target dose in this group may be 10 mg/day. Consider a dose increase to 20 mg/day after several weeks if insufficient clinical improvement is observed. In the short-term (8 to 9 week) controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Major Depressive Disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine doses of 10 to 20 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . All patients — As with other drugs effective in the treatment of Major Depressive Disorder, the full effect may be delayed until 4 weeks of treatment or longer. Periodically reassess to determine the need for maintenance treatment. Switching Patients to a Tricyclic Antidepressant (TCA) — Dosage of a TCA may need to be reduced, and plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored temporarily when fluoxetine is coadministered or has been recently discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Drug Interactions (7.7) ] . 2.2 Obsessive Compulsive Disorder Initial Treatment Adult — Initiate fluoxetine 20 mg/day, orally in the morning. The full therapeutic effect may be delayed until 5 weeks of treatment or longer. A dose range of 20 to 60 mg/day is recommended; however, doses of up to 80 mg/day have been well tolerated in open studies of OCD. In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fixed daily doses of 20, 40, or 60 mg of fluoxetine or placebo [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . In one of these studies, no dose-response relationship for effectiveness was demonstrated. Pediatric (children and adolescents) — In adolescents and higher weight children, initiate treatment with a dose of 10 mg/day. After 2 weeks, increase the dose to 20 mg/day. Consider additional dose increases after several more weeks if insufficient clinical improvement is observed. A dose range of 20 to 60 mg/day is recommended. In lower weight children, initiate treatment with a dose of 10 mg/day. A dose range of 20 to 30 mg/day is recommended. Experience with daily doses greater than 20 mg is very minimal, and there is no experience with doses greater than 60 mg. In the controlled clinical trial of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fluoxetine doses in the range of 10 to 60 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Periodically reassess to determine the need for treatment. 2.3 Bulimia Nervosa Initial Treatment — Administer fluoxetine 60 mg/day in the morning. For some patients it may be advisable to titrate up to this target dose over several days. Fluoxetine doses above 60 mg/day have not been systematically studied in patients with bulimia. In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Bulimia Nervosa, patients were administered fixed daily fluoxetine doses of 20 or 60 mg, or placebo [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . Only the 60 mg dose was statistically significantly superior to placebo in reducing the frequency of binge-eating and vomiting. 2.4 Panic Disorder Initial Treatment — Initiate treatment with fluoxetine 10 mg/day. After one week, increase the dose to 20 mg/day. Consider a dose increase after several weeks if no clinical improvement is observed. Fluoxetine doses above 60 mg/day have not been systematically evaluated in patients with Panic Disorder. In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Panic Disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine doses in the range of 10 to 60 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . The most frequently administered dose in the 2 flexible-dose clinical trials was 20 mg/day. Periodically reassess to determine the need for continued treatment. 2.5 Fluoxetine and Olanzapine in Combination: Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax. Adult — Administer fluoxetine in combination with oral olanzapine once daily in the evening, without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. Make dosage adjustments, if indicated, according to efficacy and tolerability within dose ranges of fluoxetine 20 to 50 mg and oral olanzapine 5 to 12.5 mg. Antidepressant efficacy was demonstrated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination with a dose range of olanzapine 6 to 12 mg and fluoxetine 25 to 50 mg. Safety of co-administration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in clinical studies. Periodically re-examine the need for continued pharmacotherapy. Children and adolescents (10-17 years of age) — Administer olanzapine and fluoxetine combination once daily in the evening, generally beginning with 2.5 mg of olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. Make dosage adjustments, if indicated, according to efficacy and tolerability. Safety of co-administration of doses above 12 mg of olanzapine with 50 mg of fluoxetine has not been evaluated in pediatric clinical studies. Safety and efficacy of fluoxetine in combination with olanzapine was determined in clinical trials supporting approval of Symbyax (fixed-dose combination of olanzapine and fluoxetine). Symbyax is dosed between 3 mg/25 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day and 12 mg/50 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day. The following table demonstrates the appropriate individual component doses of fluoxetine and olanzapine versus Symbyax. Adjust dosage, if indicated, with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability. Table 1: Approximate Dose Correspondence Between Symbyax 1 and the Combination of Fluoxetine and Olanzapine For Symbyax (mg/day) Use in Combination Olanzapine (mg/day) Fluoxetine (mg/day) 1 Symbyax (olanzapine/fluoxetine HCL) is a fixed-dose combination of fluoxetine and olanzapine. 3 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 5 20 12 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 5 40+10 12 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 40+10 Fluoxetine capsules monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder. 2.7 Dosing in Specific Populations Treatment of Pregnant Women — When treating pregnant women with fluoxetine, the physician should carefully consider the potential risks and potential benefits of treatment. Neonates exposed to SSRIs or SNRIs late in the third trimester have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization, respiratory support, and tube feeding [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ]. Geriatric — Consider a lower or less frequent dosage for the elderly [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ]. Hepatic Impairment — As with many other medications, use a lower or less frequent dosage in patients with hepatic impairment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. Concomitant Illness — Patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications may require dosage adjustments [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. Fluoxetine capsules and Olanzapine in Combination — Use a starting dose of oral olanzapine 2.5 to 5 mg with fluoxetine 20 mg for patients with a predisposition to hypotensive reactions, patients with hepatic impairment, or patients who exhibit a combination of factors that may slow the metabolism of olanzapine or fluoxetine in combination (female gender, geriatric age, non-smoking status), or those patients who may be pharmacodynamically sensitive to olanzapine. Titrate slowly and adjust dosage as needed in patients who exhibit a combination of factors that may slow metabolism. Fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination have not been systematically studied in patients over 65 years of age or in patients less than 10 years of age [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16) and Drug Interactions (7.7) ] . 2.8 Discontinuation of Treatment Symptoms associated with discontinuation of fluoxetine, SNRIs, and SSRIs, have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15) ]. 2.9 Switching a Patient To or From a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with fluoxetine. Conversely, at least 5 weeks should be allowed after stopping fluoxetine before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications (4.1) ]. 2.10 Use of Fluoxetine with Other MAOIs such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start fluoxetine in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see Contraindications (4.1) ]. In some cases, a patient already receiving fluoxetine therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, fluoxetine should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. The patient should be monitored for symptoms of serotonin syndrome for five weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, whichever comes first. Therapy with fluoxetine may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with fluoxetine is unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Adult Pediatric MDD ( 2.1 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 to 20 mg/day (initial dose) OCD ( 2.2 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Bulimia Nervosa ( 2.3 ) 60 mg/day in am Panic Disorder ( 2.4 ) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 2.5 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) Treatment Resistant Depression ( 2.6 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) A lower or less frequent dosage should be used in patients with hepatic impairment, the elderly, and for patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications ( 2.7 ) Fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination: Dosage adjustments should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Fluoxetine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder or treatment resistant depression ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Safety of the coadministration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in adults ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Safety of the coadministration of doses above 12 mg olanzapine with 50 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in children and adolescents ages 10 to 17 ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Initial Treatment Adult — Initiate fluoxetine 20 mg/day orally in the morning. In controlled trials used to support the efficacy of fluoxetine, patients were administered morning doses ranging from 20 mg/day to 80 mg/day. Studies comparing fluoxetine 20 mg/day, 40 mg/day, and 60 mg/day to placebo indicate that 20 mg/day is sufficient to obtain a satisfactory response in Major Depressive Disorder in most cases [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Pediatric (children and adolescents) — Initiate Fluoxetine 10 mg/day or 20 mg/day. In the short-term (8 to 9 week) controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Major Depressive Disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine doses of 10 to 20 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Switching Patients to a Tricyclic Antidepressant (TCA) — Dosage of a TCA may need to be reduced, and plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored temporarily when fluoxetine is coadministered or has been recently discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Drug Interactions (7.7) ]. A dose range of 20 mg/day to 60 mg/day is recommended; however, doses of up to 80 mg/day have been well tolerated in open studies of OCD. In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fixed daily doses of 20 mg, 40 mg, or 60 mg of fluoxetine or placebo [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. After 2 weeks, increase the dose to 20mg/day. A dose range of 20 mg/day to 60 mg/day is recommended. A dose range of 20 mg/day to 30 mg/day is recommended. In the controlled clinical trial of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fluoxetine doses in the range of 10 mg/day to 60 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Make dosage adjustments, if indicated, according to efficacy and tolerability within dose ranges of fluoxetine 20 mg to 50 mg and oral olanzapine 5 mg to 12.5 mg. Antidepressant efficacy was demonstrated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination with a dose range of olanzapine 6 mg to 12 mg and fluoxetine 25 to 50 mg. 2.6 Fluoxetine and Olanzapine in Combination: Treatment Resistant Depression When using Fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax. Administer fluoxetine in combination with oral olanzapine once daily in the evening, without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. Adjust dosage, if indicated, according to efficacy and tolerability within dose ranges of fluoxetine 20 to 50 mg and oral olanzapine 5 mg to 20 mg. Antidepressant efficacy was demonstrated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination with a dose range of olanzapine 6 mg to 18 mg and fluoxetine 25 mg to 50 mg. Safety and efficacy of fluoxetine in combination with olanzapine was determined in clinical trials supporting approval of Symbyax (fixed dose combination of olanzapine and fluoxetine). Table 1 demonstrates the appropriate individual component doses of fluoxetine and olanzapine versus Symbyax. Safety of coadministration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in clinical studies. Fluoxetine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of treatment resistant depression (Major Depressive Disorder in patients who do not respond to 2 antidepressants of adequate dose and duration in the current episode). 2.7 Dosing in Specific Populations Geriatric — Consider a lower or less frequent dosage for the elderly [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ] . Hepatic Impairment — As with many other medications, use a lower or less frequent dosage in patients with hepatic impairment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . Concomitant Illness — Patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications may require dosage adjustments [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . Fluoxetine and Olanzapine in Combination — Use a starting dose of oral olanzapine 2.5 mg to 5 mg with fluoxetine 20 mg for patients with a predisposition to hypotensive reactions, patients with hepatic impairment, or patients who exhibit a combination of factors that may slow the metabolism of olanzapine or fluoxetine in combination (female gender, geriatric age, non-smoking status), or those patients who may be pharmacodynamically sensitive to olanzapine. The healthcare provider should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Initial Treatment Adult — Initiate fluoxetine 20 mg/day orally in the morning. Studies comparing fluoxetine 20 mg/day, 40 mg/day, and 60 mg/day to placebo indicate that 20 mg/day is sufficient to obtain a satisfactory response in Major Depressive Disorder in most cases [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.1)]. In the short-term (8 to 9 week) controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Major Depressive Disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine doses of 10 to 20 mg/day [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.1)]. Switching Patients to a Tricyclic Antidepressant (TCA) — Dosage of a TCA may need to be reduced, and plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored temporarily when fluoxetine is coadministered or has been recently discontinued [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2) and DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.7)]. In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fixed daily doses of 20 mg, 40 mg, or 60 mg of fluoxetine or placebo [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.2)]. In the controlled clinical trial of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fluoxetine doses in the range of 10 mg/day to 60 mg/day [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.2)]. In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Bulimia Nervosa, patients were administered fixed daily fluoxetine doses of 20 or 60 mg, or placebo [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.3)] . In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Panic Disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine doses in the range of 10 to 60 mg/day [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.4)] . Table 1: Approximate Dose Correspondence Between Symbyax 1 and the Combination of Fluoxetine and Olanzapine For Symbyax (mg/day) Use in Combination Olanzapine (mg/day) Fluoxetine (mg/day) 1Symbyax (olanzapine/fluoxetine HCL) is a fixed-dose combination of fluoxetine and olanzapine. 2.7 Dosing in Specific Populations Geriatric — Consider a lower or less frequent dosage for the elderly [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS (8.5)] . Hepatic Impairment — As with many other medications, use a lower or less frequent dosage in patients with hepatic impairment [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.4) and USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS (8.6)] . Concomitant Illness — Patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications may require dosage adjustments [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.4) and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.12)] . Fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination have not been systematically studied in patients over 65 years of age or in patients less than 10 years of age [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.16) and DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.7)] . 2.8 Discontinuation of Treatment Symptoms associated with discontinuation of fluoxetine, SNRIs, and SSRIs, have been reported [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.15)]. Conversely, at least 5 weeks should be allowed after stopping fluoxetine before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4.1)]. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4.1)]. Therapy with fluoxetine may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2)]. The healthcare provider should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2)] . 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Indication Adult Pediatric MDD ( 2.1 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose ) 10 to 20 mg/day (initial dose ) OCD ( 2.2 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose ) 10 mg/day (initial dose ) Bulimia Nervosa ( 2.3 ) 60 mg/day in am Panic Disorder ( 2.4 ) 10 mg/day (initial dose ) Depressive Episode s Associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 2.5 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine : 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) Treatment Resistant Depression ( 2.6 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) • A lower or less frequent dosage should be used in patients with hepatic impairment, the elderly, and for patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications ( 2.7 ) Fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination: • Dosage adjustments should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) • Fluoxetine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder or treatment resistant depression ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) • Safety of the coadministration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in adults ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) • Safety of the coadministration of doses above 12 mg olanzapine with 50 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in children and adolescents ages 10 to 17 ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Initial Treatment Adult - Initiate fluoxetine capsules 20 mg/day orally in the morning. Studies comparing fluoxetine 20, 40, and 60 mg/day to placebo indicate that 20 mg/day is sufficient to obtain a satisfactory response in Major Depressive Disorder in most cases [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Pediatric (children and adolescents) - Initiate fluoxetine capsules 10 or 20 mg/day. In the short-term (8 to 9 week) controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Major Depressive Disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine doses of 10 to 20 mg/day [ see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. All patients - As with other drugs effective in the treatment of Major Depressive Disorder, the full effect may be delayed until 4 weeks of treatment or longer. Switching Patients to a Tricyclic Antidepressant (TCA) - Dosage of a TCA may need to be reduced, and plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored temporarily when fluoxetine is coadministered or has been recently discontinued [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Drug Interactions (7.7) ]. 2.2 Obsessive Compulsive Disorder Initial Treatment Adult - Initiate fluoxetine capsules 20 mg/day, orally in the morning. In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fixed daily doses of 20, 40, or 60 mg of fluoxetine or placebo [ see Clinical Studies (14.2 )]. Pediatric (children and adolescents ) — In adolescents and higher weight children, initiate treatment with a dose of 10 mg/day. In the controlled clinical trial of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fluoxetine doses in the range of 10 to 60 mg/day [ see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 2.3 Bulimia Nervosa Initial Treatment - Administer fluoxetine capsules 60 mg/day in the morning. In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Bulimia Nervosa, patients were administered fixed daily fluoxetine doses of 20 or 60 mg, or placebo [ see Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. 2.4 Panic Disorder Initial Treatment - Initiate treatment with fluoxetine capsules 10 mg/day. In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Panic Disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine doses in the range of 10 to 60 mg/day [ see Clinical Studies (14.4 )]. Adult —Administer fluoxetine in combination with oral olanzapine once daily in the evening, without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. Children and adolescents (10 to 17 years of age) — Administer olanzapine and fluoxetine combination once daily in the evening, generally beginning with 2.5 mg of olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. Table 1: Approximate Dose Correspondence between Symbyax 1 and the Combination of Fluoxetine and Olanzapine For Symbyax (mg/day) Use in Combination Olanzapine (mg/day) Fluoxetine(mg/day) 3 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 5 20 12 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 5 40+10 12 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 40+10 1 Symbyax (olanzapine/fluoxetine HCL) is a fixed-dose combination of fluoxetine and olanzapine. Fluoxetine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder. Administer fluoxetine in combination with oral olanzapine once daily in the evening, without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20mg of fluoxetine. Adjust dosage, if indicated, according to efficacy to tolerability within dose ranges of fluoxetine 20 to 50 mg and oral olanzapine 5 to 20 mg. Antidepressant efficacy was demonstrated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination with a dose range of olanzapine 6 to 18 mg and fluoxetine 25 to 50 mg. Symbyaxis dosed between 3 mg/25 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day and 12 mg/50 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day. Periodically re-examine the need for continued pharmacotherapy Safety of co administration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in clinical studies. Fluoxetine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of treatment resistant depression (Major Depressive Disorder in patient, who do not respond to 2 separate anti depressants of adequate dose and duration in the current episode). 2.7 Dosing in Specific Populations Geriatric - Consider a lower or less frequent dosage for the elderly [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)]. Hepatic Impairment — As with many other medications, use a lower or less frequent dosage in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]. Concomitant Illness — Patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications may require dosage adjustments [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.12)]. Fluoxetine and Olanzapine in Combination — Use a starting dose of oral olanzapine 2.5 to 5 mg with fluoxetine 20 mg for patients with a predisposition to hypotensive reactions, patients with hepatic impairment, or patients who exhibit a combination of factors that may slow the metabolism of olanzapine or fluoxetine in combination (female gender, geriatric age, non-smoking status), or those patients who may be pharmacodynamically sensitive to olanzapine. Fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination have not been systematically studied in patients over 65 years of age or in patients less than 10 years of age [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.16) and Drug Interactions (7.7)]. 2.8 Discontinuation of Treatment Symptoms associated with discontinuation of fluoxetine, SNRIs, and SSRIs, have been reported [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)]. Conversely, at least 5 weeks should be allowed after stopping fluoxetine before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [ see Contraindications (4.1)]. 2.10 Use of Fluoxetine with Other MAOIs such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start fluoxetine capsules in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [ see Contraindications (4.1 )]. In some cases, a patient already receiving fluoxetine capsules therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, fluoxetine capsules should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. Therapy with fluoxetine capsules may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with fluoxetine capsules is unclear. The healthcare provider should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Adult Pediatric MDD ( 2.1 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 to 20 mg/day (initial dose) OCD ( 2.2 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Bulimia Nervosa ( 2.3 ) 60 mg/day in am Panic Disorder ( 2.4 ) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 2.5 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) Treatment Resistant Depression ( 2.6 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) • A lower or less frequent dosage should be used in patients with hepatic impairment, the elderly, and for patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications ( 2.7 ) Fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination: • Dosage adjustments should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) • Fluoxetine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder or treatment resistant depression ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) • Safety of the coadministration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in adults ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) • Safety of the coadministration of doses above 12 mg olanzapine with 50 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in children and adolescents ages 10 to 17 ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Initial Treatment Adult — Initiate fluoxetine capsules 20 mg/day orally in the morning. Pediatric (children and adolescents) — Initiate fluoxetine capsules 10 or 20 mg/day. 2.2 Obsessive Compulsive Disorder Initial Treatment Adult — Initiate fluoxetine capsules 20 mg/day, orally in the morning. 2.3 Bulimia Nervosa Initial Treatment — Administer fluoxetine capsules 60 mg/day in the morning. 2.4 Panic Disorder Initial Treatment — Initiate treatment with fluoxetine capsules 10 mg/day. 2.5 Fluoxetine Capsules and Olanzapine in Combination: Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder When using fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax . The following table demonstrates the appropriate individual component doses of fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine versus Symbyax. Table 1: Approximate Dose Correspondence Between Symbyax 1 and the Combination of Fluoxetine and Olanzapine 1 Symbyax (olanzapine/fluoxetine hydrochloride) is a fixed-dose combination of fluoxetine and olanzapine. For Symbyax (mg/day) Use in Combination Olanzapine (mg/day) Fluoxetine (mg/day) 3 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 5 20 12 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 5 40+10 12 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 40+10 Fluoxetine capsules monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder. 2.6 Fluoxetine Capsules and Olanzapine in Combination: Treatment Resistant Depression When using fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax. Adjust dosage, if indicated, according to efficacy and tolerability within dose ranges of fluoxetine 20 to 50 mg and oral olanzapine 5 to 20 mg. Table 1 demonstrates the appropriate individual component doses of fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine versus Symbyax. Fluoxetine capsules monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of treatment resistant depression (Major Depressive Disorder in patients who do not respond to 2 antidepressants of adequate dose and duration in the current episode). 2.7 Dosing in Specific Populations Geriatric — Consider a lower or less frequent dosage for the elderly [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ]. Fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination have not been systematically studied in patients over 65 years of age or in patients less than 10 years of age [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16) and Drug Interactions (7.7) ] . 2.9 Switching a Patient To or From a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with fluoxetine capsules. Conversely, at least 5 weeks should be allowed after stopping fluoxetine capsules before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [ see Contraindications (4.1) ]. 2.10 Use of Fluoxetine Capsules with Other MAOIs such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start fluoxetine capsules in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. Therapy with fluoxetine capsules may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Adult Pediatric MDD ( 2.1 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 to 20 mg/day (initial dose) OCD ( 2.2 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Bulimia Nervosa ( 2.3 ) 60 mg/day in am Panic Disorder ( 2.4 ) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 2.5 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg off luoxetine once daily (initial dose) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) Treatment Resistant Depression ( 2.6 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) A lower or less frequent dosage should be used in patients with hepatic impairment, the elderly, and for patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications ( 2.7 ) Fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination: Dosage adjustments should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Fluoxetine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder or treatment resistant depression ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Safety of the coadministration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in adults ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Safety of the coadministration of doses above 12 mg olanzapine with 50 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in children and adolescents ages 10 to 17 ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Initial Treatment Adult — Initiate fluoxetine 20 mg/day orally in the morning. In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Bulimia Nervosa, patients were administered fixed daily fluoxetine doses of 20 mg or 60 mg, or placebo [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Panic Disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine doses in the range of 10 mg/day to 60 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . Antidepressant efficacy was demonstrated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination with a dose range of olanzapine 6 mg to 12 mg and fluoxetine 25 mg to 50 mg. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Adult Pediatric MDD ( 2.1 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 to 20 mg/day (initial dose) OCD ( 2.2 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Bulimia Nervosa ( 2.3 ) 60 mg/day in am Panic Disorder (2.4) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 2.5 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) Treatment Resistant Depression ( 2.6 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) A lower or less frequent dosage should be used in patients with hepatic impairment, the elderly, and for patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications (2.7) Fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination: Dosage adjustments should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Fluoxetine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder or treatment resistant depression ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Safety of the coadministration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in adults ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Safety of the coadministration of doses above 12 mg olanzapine with 50 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in children and adolescents ages 10 to 17 (2.5) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Initial Treatment Adult — Initiate fluoxetine 20 mg/day orally in the morning. Studies comparing fluoxetine 20, 40, and 60 mg/day to placebo indicate that 20 mg/day is sufficient to obtain a satisfactory response in Major Depressive Disorder in most cases [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . In the short-term (8 to 9 week) controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Major Depressive Disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine doses of 10 to 20 mg/day [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Switching Patients to a Tricyclic Antidepressant (TCA) — Dosage of a TCA may need to be reduced, and plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored temporarily when fluoxetine is coadministered or has been recently discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.7 )] . In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fixed daily doses of 20, 40, or 60 mg of fluoxetine or placebo [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . In the controlled clinical trial of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fluoxetine doses in the range of 10 to 60 mg/day [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Bulimia Nervosa, patients were administered fixed daily fluoxetine doses of 20 or 60 mg, or placebo [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Panic Disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine doses in the range of 10 to 60 mg/day [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )] . 2.5 Fluoxetine and Olanzapine in Combination: Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . Safety and efficacy of fluoxetine in combination with olanzapine was determined in clinical trials supporting approval of Symbyax ® (fixed-dose combination of olanzapine and fluoxetine). Symbyax ® is dosed between 3 mg/25 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day and 12 mg/50 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day. The following table demonstrates the appropriate individual component doses of fluoxetine and olanzapine versus Symbyax ® . Table 1: Approximate Dose Correspondence Between Symbyax ® 1 and the Combination of Fluoxetine and Olanzapine For Symbyax ® (mg/day) Use in Combination Olanzapine (mg/day) Fluoxetine (mg/day) 3 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 5 20 12 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 5 40+10 12 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 40+10 1 Symbyax ® (olanzapine/fluoxetine HCL) is a fixed-dose combination of fluoxetine and olanzapine. 2.6 Fluoxetine and Olanzapine in Combination: Treatment Resistant Depression When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . Safety and efficacy of fluoxetine in combination with olanzapine was determined in clinical trials supporting approval of Symbyax ® (fixed dose combination of olanzapine and fluoxetine). Table 1 demonstrates the appropriate individual component doses of fluoxetine and olanzapine versus Symbyax ® . 2.7 Dosing in Specific Populations Geriatric — Consider a lower or less frequent dosage for the elderly [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 )] . Hepatic Impairment — As with many other medications, use a lower or less frequent dosage in patients with hepatic impairment [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . Concomitant Illness — Patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications may require dosage adjustments [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] . Fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination have not been systematically studied in patients over 65 years of age or in patients less than 10 years of age [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.16 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.7 )] . 2.8 Discontinuation of Treatment Symptoms associated with discontinuation of fluoxetine, SNRIs, and SSRIs, have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.15 )] . Conversely, at least 5 weeks should be allowed after stopping fluoxetine before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications ( 4.1 )] . In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see Contraindications ( 4.1 )] . Therapy with fluoxetine may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . The healthcare provider should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Adult Pediatric MDD ( 2.1 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 to 20 mg/day (initial dose) OCD ( 2.2 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Bulimia Nervosa ( 2.3 ) 60 mg/day in am Panic Disorder ( 2.4 ) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 2.5 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) Treatment Resistant Depression ( 2.6 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) A lower or less frequent dosage should be used in patients with hepatic impairment, the elderly, and for patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications ( 2.7 ) Fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination: Dosage adjustments should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Fluoxetine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder or treatment resistant depression ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Safety of the coadministration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in adults ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Safety of the coadministration of doses above 12 mg olanzapine with 50 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in children and adolescents ages 10 to 17 ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Initial Treatment Adult — Initiate fluoxetine capsules 20 mg/day orally in the morning. Children and adolescents (10 to 17 years of age ) — Administer olanzapine and fluoxetine combination once daily in the evening, generally beginning with 2.5 mg of olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Adult Pediatric MDD ( 2.1 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 to 20 mg/day (initial dose) OCD ( 2.2 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Bulimia Nervosa ( 2.3 ) 60 mg/day in am - Panic Disorder ( 2.4 ) 10 mg/day (initial dose) - A lower or less frequent dosage should be used in patients with hepatic impairment, the elderly, and for patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications. ( 2.7 ) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Initial Treatment: Adult: In controlled trials used to support the efficacy of fluoxetine tablets, patients were administered morning doses ranging from 20 to 80 mg/day. Studies comparing fluoxetine tablets 20, 40, and 60 mg/day to placebo indicate that 20 mg/day is sufficient to obtain a satisfactory response in Major Depressive Disorder in most cases. Consequently, a dose of 20 mg/day, administered in the morning, is recommended as the initial dose. A dose increase may be considered after several weeks if insufficient clinical improvement is observed. Doses above 20 mg/day may be administered on a once-a-day (morning) or BID schedule (i.e., morning and noon) and should not exceed a maximum dose of 80 mg/day. Pediatric (Children and Adolescents): In the short-term (8 to 9 week) controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine tablets supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Major Depressive Disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine tablets doses of 10 to 20 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Treatment should be initiated with a dose of 10 or 20 mg/day. After one week at 10 mg/day, the dose should be increased to 20 mg/day. A dose increase to 20 mg/day may be considered after several weeks if insufficient clinical improvement is observed. All Patients: As with other drugs effective in the treatment of Major Depressive Disorder, the full effect may be delayed until 4 weeks of treatment or longer. Maintenance/Continuation/Extended Treatment: It is generally agreed that acute episodes of Major Depressive Disorder require several months or longer of sustained pharmacologic therapy. Whether the dose needed to induce remission is identical to the dose needed to maintain and/or sustain euthymia is unknown. Daily Dosing: Systematic evaluation of fluoxetine tablets in adult patients has shown that its efficacy in Major Depressive Disorder is maintained for periods of up to 38 weeks following 12 weeks of open-label acute treatment (50 weeks total) at a dose of 20 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Switching Patients to a Tricyclic Antidepressant (TCA): Dosage of a TCA may need to be reduced and plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored temporarily when fluoxetine tablets is coadministered or has been recently discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Drug Interactions (7.7) ] . 2.2 Obsessive Compulsive Disorder Initial Treatment: Adult: In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine tablets supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fixed daily doses of 20 mg, 40 mg, or 60 mg of fluoxetine tablets or placebo [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Since there was a suggestion of a possible dose-response relationship for effectiveness in the second study, a dose increase may be considered after several weeks if insufficient clinical improvement is observed. Doses above 20 mg/day may be administered on a once daily (i.e., morning) or BID schedule (i.e., morning and noon). The maximum fluoxetine tablets dose should not exceed 80 mg/day. Pediatric (Children and Adolescents): In the controlled clinical trial of fluoxetine tablets supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fluoxetine tablets doses in the range of 10 to 60 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . In adolescents and higher weight children, treatment should be initiated with a dose of 10 mg/day. After 2 weeks, the dose should be increased to 20 mg/day. Additional dose increases may be considered after several more weeks if insufficient clinical improvement is observed. In lower weight children, treatment should be initiated with a dose of 10 mg/day. Maintenance/Continuation Treatment: While there are no systematic studies that answer the question of how long to continue fluoxetine tablets, OCD is a chronic condition and it is reasonable to consider continuation for a responding patient. Although the efficacy of fluoxetine tablets after 13 weeks has not been documented in controlled trials, adult patients have been continued in therapy under double-blind conditions for up to an additional 6 months without loss of benefit. However, dosage adjustments should be made to maintain the patient on the lowest effective dosage and patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for treatment. 2.3 Bulimia Nervosa Initial Treatment: In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine tablets supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Bulimia Nervosa, patients were administered fixed daily fluoxetine tablets doses of 20 mg or 60 mg, or placebo [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . Consequently, the recommended dose is 60 mg/day, administered in the morning. Fluoxetine tablets doses above 60 mg/day have not been systematically studied in patients with bulimia. Maintenance/Continuation Treatment: Systematic evaluation of continuing fluoxetine tablets 60 mg/day for periods of up to 52 weeks in patients with bulimia who have responded while taking fluoxetine tablets 60 mg/day during an 8-week acute treatment phase has demonstrated a benefit of such maintenance treatment [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . Nevertheless, patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment. 2.4 Panic Disorder Initial Treatment: In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine tablets supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Panic Disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine tablets doses in the range of 10 to 60 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . Treatment should be initiated with a dose of 10 mg/day. After one week, the dose should be increased to 20 mg/day. The most frequently administered dose in the two flexible-dose clinical trials was 20 mg/day. A dose increase may be considered after several weeks if no clinical improvement is observed. Fluoxetine tablets doses above 60 mg/day have not been systematically evaluated in patients with Panic Disorder. Maintenance/Continuation Treatment: While there are no systematic studies that answer the question of how long to continue fluoxetine tablets, Panic Disorder is a chronic condition and it is reasonable to consider continuation for a responding patient. Nevertheless, patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for continued treatment. 2.7 Dosing in Specific Populations Treatment of Pregnant Women: When treating pregnant women with fluoxetine tablets, the physician should carefully consider the potential risks and potential benefits of treatment. Neonates exposed to SSRIs or SNRIs late in the third trimester have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization, respiratory support, and tube feeding [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ] . Geriatric: A lower or less frequent dosage should be considered for the elderly [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ] . Hepatic Impairment: As with many other medications, a lower or less frequent dosage should be used in patients with hepatic impairment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . Concomitant Illness: Patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications may require dosage adjustments [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . 2.8 Discontinuation of Treatment Symptoms associated with discontinuation of fluoxetine tablets, SNRIs, and SSRIs, have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15) ] . 2.9 Switching a Patient to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with fluoxetine tablets. Conversely, at least 5 weeks should be allowed after stopping fluoxetine tablets before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications (4.1) ] . 2.10 Use of Fluoxetine Tablets with Other MAOIs such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start fluoxetine tablets in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see Contraindications (4.1) ] . In some cases, a patient already receiving fluoxetine tablet therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, fluoxetine tablets should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. The patient should be monitored for symptoms of serotonin syndrome for 5 weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, whichever comes first. Therapy with fluoxetine tablets may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with fluoxetine tablets is unclear.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS When using fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax. Serotonin Syndrome and MAOIs: Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with fluoxetine or within 5 weeks of stopping treatment with fluoxetine. Do not use fluoxetine within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders. In addition, do not start fluoxetine in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue ( 4.1 ) Pimozide: Do not use. Risk of QT prolongation and drug interaction ( 4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) Thioridazine: Do not use. Risk of QT interval prolongation and elevated thioridazine plasma levels. Do not use thioridazine within 5 weeks of discontinuing fluoxetine. Do not use thioridazine within 5 weeks of discontinuing fluoxetine ( 4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax ( 4 ) 4.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with fluoxetine or within 5 weeks of stopping treatment with fluoxetine is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of fluoxetine within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.9) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Starting fluoxetine in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration (2.10) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 4.2 Other Contraindications The use of fluoxetine is contraindicated with the following: Pimozide [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) and Drug Interactions (7.7 , 7.8) ] Thioridazine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) and Drug Interactions (7.7 , 7.8) ] Pimozide and thioridazine prolong the QT interval. Fluoxetine can increase the levels of pimozide and thioridazine through inhibition of CYP2D6. Fluoxetine can also prolong the QT interval. When using fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax. 4.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with fluoxetine or within 5 weeks of stopping treatment with fluoxetine is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of fluoxetine within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.9) and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2)]. Starting fluoxetine in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.10) and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2)]. 4.2 Other Contraindications The use of fluoxetine is contraindicated with the following: Pimozide [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.11) and DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.7, 7.8)] Thioridazine [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.11) and DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.7, 7.8)] Pimozide and thioridazine prolong the QT interval. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax. • Serotonin Syndrome and MAOIs: Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with fluoxetine or within 5 weeks of stopping treatment with fluoxetine. Do not use fluoxetine capsules within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders. In addition, do not start fluoxetine in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue ( 4.1 ) • Pimozide: Do not use. Risk of QT prolongation and drug interaction ( 4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7, 7.8 ) • Thioridazine: Do not use. Do not use thioridazine within 5 weeks of discontinuing fluoxetine ( 4.2, 5.11, 7.7 , 7.8) • When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax ( 4 ) 4.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with fluoxetine capsules or within 5 weeks of stopping treatment with fluoxetine capsules is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of fluoxetine capsules within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [ see Dosage and Administration (2.9) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Starting fluoxetine capsules in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [ see Dosage and Administration (2.10) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. 4.2 Other Contraindications The use of fluoxetine capsules is contraindicated with the following: • Pimozide [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) and Drug Interactions (7.7 , 7.8)] • Thioridazine [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) and Drug Interactions (7.7 , 7.8)] Pimozide and thioridazine prolong the QT interval. Fluoxetine capsules can increase the levels of pimozide and thioridazine through inhibition of CYP2D6. Fluoxetine capsules can also prolong the QT interval. • Serotonin Syndrome and MAOIs: Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with fluoxetine capsules or within 5 weeks of stopping treatment with fluoxetine capsules. In addition, do not start fluoxetine capsules in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue (4.1) • Pimozide: Do not use. Risk of QT prolongation and drug interaction (4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8) • Thioridazine: Do not use. Do not use thioridazine within 5 weeks of discontinuing fluoxetine (4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8) • When using fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax (4) 4.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with fluoxetine capsules or within 5 weeks of stopping treatment with fluoxetine capsules is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of fluoxetine capsules within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.9) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Starting fluoxetine capsules in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration (2.10) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 4.2 Other Contraindications The use of fluoxetine capsules is contraindicated with the following: • Pimozide [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) and Drug Interactions (7.7 , 7.8) ] • Thioridazine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) and Drug Interactions (7.7 , 7.8) ] Pimozide and thioridazine prolong the QT interval. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . Do not use thioridazine within 5 weeks of discontinuing fluoxetine ( 4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax ® ( 4 ) 4.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with fluoxetine or within 5 weeks of stopping treatment with fluoxetine is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of fluoxetine within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.9) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Starting fluoxetine in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.10 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . 4.2 Other Contraindications The use of fluoxetine is contraindicated with the following: Pimozide [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.7 , 7.8 )] Thioridazine [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.7 , 7.8 )] Pimozide and thioridazine prolong the QT interval. Serotonin Syndrome and MAOIs: Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with fluoxetine capsules or within 5 weeks of stopping treatment with fluoxetine capsules. In addition, do not start fluoxetine capsules in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue (4.1) Pimozide: Do not use. Risk of QT prolongation and drug interaction (4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8) Thioridazine: Do not use. Do not use thioridazine within 5 weeks of discontinuing fluoxetine (4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8) When using fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax (4) 4.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with fluoxetine capsules or within 5 weeks of stopping treatment with fluoxetine capsules is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. 4.2 Other Contraindications The use of fluoxetine capsules is contraindicated with the following: Pimozide [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) and Drug Interactions (7.7 , 7.8) ] Thioridazine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) and Drug Interactions (7.7 , 7.8) ] Pimozide and thioridazine prolong the QT interval. In addition, do not start fluoxetine in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. ( 4.1 ) Pimozide: Do not use. Risk of QT prolongation and drug interaction. ( 4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) Thioridazine: Do not use. ( 4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . ( 4 ) 4.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with fluoxetine tablets or within 5 weeks of stopping treatment with fluoxetine tablets are contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of fluoxetine tablets within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.9) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Starting fluoxetine tablets in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration (2.10) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 4.2 Other Contraindications The use of fluoxetine tablets are contraindicated with the following: Pimozide [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) and Drug Interactions (7.7, 7.8) ] Thioridazine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) and Drug Interactions (7.7, 7.8) ] Pimozide and thioridazine prolong the QT interval. Fluoxetine tablets can increase the levels of pimozide and thioridazine through inhibition of CYP2D6. Fluoxetine tablets can also prolong the QT interval.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS As with all drugs, the potential for interaction by a variety of mechanisms (e.g., pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic drug inhibition or enhancement, etc.) is a possibility. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): ( 2.9 , 2.10 , 4.1 , 5.2 ) Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6: Fluoxetine is a potent inhibitor of CYP2D6 enzyme pathway ( 7.7 ) Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs): Monitor TCA levels during coadministration with fluoxetine or when fluoxetine has been recently discontinued ( 5.2 , 7.7 ) CNS Acting Drugs: Caution should be used when taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs ( 7.2 ) Benzodiazepines: Diazepam – increased t½, alprazolam - further psychomotor performance decrement due to increased levels ( 7.7 ) Antipsychotics: Potential for elevation of haloperidol and clozapine levels ( 7.7 ) Anticonvulsants: Potential for elevated phenytoin and carbamazepine levels and clinical anticonvulsant toxicity ( 7.7 ) Serotonergic Drugs: ( 2.9 , 2.10 , 4.1 , 5.2 ) Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g. NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin): May potentiate the risk of bleeding ( 7.4 ) Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins: May cause a shift in plasma concentrations ( 7.6 , 7.7 ) Olanzapine: When used in combination with fluoxetine, also refer to the Drug Interactions section of the package insert for Symbyax ( 7.7 ) Drugs that Prolong the QT Interval: Do not use fluoxetine with thioridazine or pimozide. Use with caution in combination with other drugs that prolong the QT interval ( 4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) [see Dosage and Administration (2.9, 2.10) , Contraindications (4.1) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 7.2 CNS Acting Drugs Caution is advised if the concomitant administration of fluoxetine and such drugs is required. In evaluating individual cases, consideration should be given to using lower initial doses of the concomitantly administered drugs, using conservative titration schedules, and monitoring of clinical status [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.3 Serotonergic Drugs [see Dosage and Administration (2.9, 2.10) , Contraindications (4.1) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 7.4 Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin) Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies of the case-control and cohort design that have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding have also shown that concurrent use of an NSAID or aspirin may potentiate this risk of bleeding. Altered anticoagulant effects, including increased bleeding, have been reported when SNRIs or SSRIs are coadministered with warfarin. Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when fluoxetine is initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . 7.5 Electroconvulsive Therapy (ECT) There are no clinical studies establishing the benefit of the combined use of ECT and fluoxetine. There have been rare reports of prolonged seizures in patients on fluoxetine receiving ECT treatment. 7.6 Potential for Other Drugs to affect Fluoxetine Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins — Because fluoxetine is tightly bound to plasma proteins, adverse effects may result from displacement of protein-bound fluoxetine by other tightly-bound drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.7 Potential for Fluoxetine to affect Other Drugs Pimozide — Concomitant use in patients taking pimozide is contraindicated. Pimozide can prolong the QT interval. Fluoxetine can increase the level of pimozide through inhibition of CYP2D6. Fluoxetine can also prolong the QT interval. Clinical studies of pimozide with other antidepressants demonstrate an increase in drug interaction or QT prolongation. While a specific study with pimozide and fluoxetine has not been conducted, the potential for drug interactions or QT prolongation warrants restricting the concurrent use of pimozide and fluoxetine [see Contraindications (4.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.11) , and Drug Interactions (7.8) ] . Thioridazine — Thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued, because of the risk of QT Prolongation [see Contraindications (4.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.11) , and Drug Interactions (7.8) ] . In a study of 19 healthy male subjects, which included 6 slow and 13 rapid hydroxylators of debrisoquin, a single 25 mg oral dose of thioridazine produced a 2.4-fold higher C max and a 4.5-fold higher AUC for thioridazine in the slow hydroxylators compared with the rapid hydroxylators. The rate of debrisoquin hydroxylation is felt to depend on the level of CYP2D6 isozyme activity. Thus, this study suggests that drugs which inhibit CYP2D6, such as certain SSRIs, including fluoxetine, will produce elevated plasma levels of thioridazine. Thioridazine administration produces a dose-related prolongation of the QT interval, which is associated with serious ventricular arrhythmias, such as Torsades de Pointes-type arrhythmias, and sudden death. This risk is expected to increase with fluoxetine-induced inhibition of thioridazine metabolism. Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 — Fluoxetine inhibits the activity of CYP2D6, and may make individuals with normal CYP2D6 metabolic activity resemble a poor metabolizer. Coadministration of fluoxetine with other drugs that are metabolized by CYP2D6, including certain antidepressants (e.g., TCAs), antipsychotics (e.g., phenothiazines and most atypicals), and antiarrhythmics (e.g., propafenone, flecainide, and others) should be approached with caution. Therapy with medications that are predominantly metabolized by the CYP2D6 system and that have a relatively narrow therapeutic index (see list below) should be initiated at the low end of the dose range if a patient is receiving fluoxetine concurrently or has taken it in the previous 5 weeks. Thus, his/her dosing requirements resemble those of poor metabolizers. If fluoxetine is added to the treatment regimen of a patient already receiving a drug metabolized by CYP2D6, the need for decreased dose of the original medication should be considered. Drugs with a narrow therapeutic index represent the greatest concern (e.g., flecainide, propafenone, vinblastine, and TCAs). Due to the risk of serious ventricular arrhythmias and sudden death potentially associated with elevated plasma levels of thioridazine, thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued [see Contraindications (4.2 )] . Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) — In 2 studies, previously stable plasma levels of imipramine and desipramine have increased greater than 2- to 10-fold when fluoxetine has been administered in combination. This influence may persist for 3 weeks or longer after fluoxetine is discontinued. Thus, the dose of TCAs may need to be reduced and plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored temporarily when fluoxetine is coadministered or has been recently discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Benzodiazepines — The half-life of concurrently administered diazepam may be prolonged in some patients [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Coadministration of alprazolam and fluoxetine has resulted in increased alprazolam plasma concentrations and in further psychomotor performance decrement due to increased alprazolam levels. Antipsychotics — Some clinical data suggests a possible pharmacodynamic and/or pharmacokinetic interaction between SSRIs and antipsychotics. Elevation of blood levels of haloperidol and clozapine has been observed in patients receiving concomitant fluoxetine. Anticonvulsants — Patients on stable doses of phenytoin and carbamazepine have developed elevated plasma anticonvulsant concentrations and clinical anticonvulsant toxicity following initiation of concomitant fluoxetine treatment. Lithium — There have been reports of both increased and decreased lithium levels when lithium was used concomitantly with fluoxetine. Cases of lithium toxicity and increased serotonergic effects have been reported. Lithium levels should be monitored when these drugs are administered concomitantly [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins — Because fluoxetine is tightly bound to plasma proteins, the administration of fluoxetine to a patient taking another drug that is tightly bound to protein (e.g., Coumadin, digitoxin) may cause a shift in plasma concentrations potentially resulting in an adverse effect [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Drugs Metabolized by CYP3A4 — In an in vivo interaction study involving coadministration of fluoxetine with single doses of terfenadine (a CYP3A4 substrate), no increase in plasma terfenadine concentrations occurred with concomitant fluoxetine. Additionally, in vitro studies have shown ketoconazole, a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 activity, to be at least 100 times more potent than fluoxetine or norfluoxetine as an inhibitor of the metabolism of several substrates for this enzyme, including astemizole, cisapride, and midazolam. These data indicate that fluoxetine’s extent of inhibition of CYP3A4 activity is not likely to be of clinical significance. Olanzapine — Fluoxetine (60 mg single dose or 60 mg daily dose for 8 days) causes a small (mean 16%) increase in the maximum concentration of olanzapine and a small (mean 16%) decrease in olanzapine clearance. The magnitude of the impact of this factor is small in comparison to the overall variability between individuals, and therefore dose modification is not routinely recommended. When using fluoxetine and olanzapine and in combination, also refer to the Drug Interactions section of the package insert for Symbyax. 7.8 Drugs that Prolong the QT Interval Do not use fluoxetine in combination with thioridazine or pimozide. Use fluoxetine with caution in combination with other drugs that cause QT prolongation. These include: specific antipsychotics (e.g., ziprasidone, iloperidone, chlorpromazine, mesoridazine, droperidol); specific antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, gatifloxacin, moxifloxacin, sparfloxacin); Class 1A antiarrhythmic medications (e.g., quinidine, procainamide); Class III antiarrhythmics (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol); and others (e.g., pentamidine, levomethadyl acetate, methadone, halofantrine, mefloquine, dolasetron mesylate, probucol or tacrolimus). Fluoxetine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6. Concomitant treatment with CYP2D6 inhibitors can increase the concentration of fluoxetine. Concomitant use of other highly protein-bound drugs can increase the concentration of fluoxetine [see Contraindications (4.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.11) , Drug Interactions (7.7) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Use with caution in combination with other drugs that prolong the QT interval ( 4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) [See Dosage and Administration (2.9 , 2.10) , Contraindications (4.1) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 7.3 Other Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of serotonergic drugs (including other SSRIs, SNRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan, and St. John's Wort) with fluoxetine increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of fluoxetine and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. While a specific study with pimozide and fluoxetine has not been conducted, the potential for drug interactions or QT prolongation warrants restricting the concurrent use of pimozide and fluoxetine Thioridazine — Thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued, because of the risk of QT Prolongation [see Contraindications (4.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.11) , and Drug Interactions (7.8)]. In a study of 19 healthy male subjects, which included 6 slow and 13 rapid hydroxylators of debrisoquin, a single 25 mg oral dose of thioridazine produced a 2.4-fold higher Cmax and a 4.5-fold higher AUC for thioridazine in the slow hydroxylators compared with the rapid hydroxylators. Due to the risk of serious ventricular arrhythmias and sudden death potentially associated with elevated plasma levels of thioridazine, thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued [see Contraindications (4.2)]. Thus, the dose of TCAs may need to be reduced and plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored temporarily when fluoxetine is coadministered or has been recently discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Benzodiazepines — The half-life of concurrently administered diazepam may be prolonged in some patients [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Lithium levels should be monitored when these drugs are administered concomitantly [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins — Because fluoxetine is tightly bound to plasma proteins, the administration of fluoxetine to a patient taking another drug that is tightly bound to protein (e.g., Coumadin, digitoxin) may cause a shift in plasma concentrations potentially resulting in an adverse effect [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. As with all drugs, the potential for interaction by a variety of mechanisms (e.g., pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic drug inhibition or enhancement, etc.) is a possibility. 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) [See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.9, 2.10), CONTRAINDICATIONS (4.1), and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2)]. In evaluating individual cases, consideration should be given to using lower initial doses of the concomitantly administered drugs, using conservative titration schedules, and monitoring of clinical status [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)] . 7.3 Serotonergic Drugs [See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.9, 2.10), CONTRAINDICATIONS (4.1), and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2)]. Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when fluoxetine is initiated or discontinued [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.7)] . 7.6 Potential for Other Drugs to affect Fluoxetine Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins — Because fluoxetine is tightly bound to plasma proteins, adverse effects may result from displacement of protein-bound fluoxetine by other tightly-bound drugs [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)] . While a specific study with pimozide and fluoxetine has not been conducted, the potential for drug interactions or QT prolongation warrants restricting the concurrent use of pimozide and fluoxetine Thioridazine — Thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued, because of the risk of QT Prolongation [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4.2), WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.11), and DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.8)]. Thus, the dose of TCAs may need to be reduced and plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored temporarily when fluoxetine is coadministered or has been recently discontinued [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. Benzodiazepines — The half-life of concurrently administered diazepam may be prolonged in some patients [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. Olanzapine— Fluoxetine (60 mg single dose or 60 mg daily dose for 8 days) causes a small (mean 16%) increase in the maximum concentration of olanzapine and a small (mean 16%) decrease in olanzapine clearance. Concomitant use of other highly protein-bound drugs can increase the concentration of fluoxetine [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4.2), WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.11), DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.7), and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. • Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): ( 2.9 , 2.10 , 4.1 , 5.2 ) • Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6: Fluoxetine is a potent inhibitor of CYP2D6 enzyme pathway ( 7.7 ) • Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs): Monitor TCA levels during coadministration with fluoxetine or when fluoxetine has been recently discontinued ( 5.2 , 7.7 ) • CNS Acting Drugs: Caution should be used when taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs ( 7.2 ) • Benzodiazepines: Diazepam – increased t ½ , alprazolam - further psychomotor performance decrement due to increased levels ( 7.7 ) • Antipsychotics: Potential for elevation of haloperidol and clozapine levels ( 7.7 ) • Anticonvulsants: Potential for elevated phenytoin and carbamazepine levels and clinical anticonvulsant toxicity ( 7.7 ) • Serotonergic Drugs: ( 2.9 , 2.10 , 4.1 , 5.2 ) • Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g. NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin): May potentiate the risk of bleeding ( 7.4 ) • Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins: May cause a shift in plasma concentrations ( 7.6 , 7.7 ) • Olanzapine: When used in combination with fluoxetine, also refer to the Drug Interactions section of the package insert for Symbyax ( 7.7 ) • Drugs that Prolong the QT Interval: Do not use fluoxetine with thioridazine or pimozide. Use with caution in combination with other drugs that prolong the QT interval ( 4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) [See Dosage and Administration (2.9, 2.10), Contraindications (4.1), and Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. In evaluating individual cases, consideration should be given to using lower initial doses of the concomitantly administered drugs, using conservative titration schedules, and monitoring of clinical status [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when fluoxetine is initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. 7.6 Potential for Other Drugs to affect Fluoxetine Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins - Because fluoxetine is tightly bound to plasma proteins, adverse effects may result from displacement of protein-bound fluoxetine by other tightly-bound drugs [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.7 Potential for Fluoxetine to affect Other Drugs Pimozide - Concomitant use in patients taking pimozide is contraindicated. While a specific study with pimozide and fluoxetine has not been conducted, the potential for drug interactions or QT prolongation warrants restricting the concurrent use of pimozide and fluoxetine [see Contraindications (4.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.11), and Drug Interactions (7.8)]. Thioridazine - Thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued, because of the risk of QT Prolongation [see Contraindications (4.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.11), and Drug Interactions (7.8)]. Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 - Fluoxetine inhibits the activity of CYP2D6, and may make individuals with normal CYP2D6 metabolic activity resemble a poor metabolizer. These data indicate that fluoxetine's extent of inhibition of CYP3A4 activity is not likely to be of clinical significance. 7.8 Drugs that Prolong the QT Intervals Do not use fluoxetine in combination with thioridazine or pimozide. • Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): (2.9 , 2.10 , 4.1 , 5.2 ) • Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6: Fluoxetine is a potent inhibitor of CYP2D6 enzyme pathway (7.7) • Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs): Monitor TCA levels during coadministration with fluoxetine or when fluoxetine has been recently discontinued (5.2 , 7.7) • CNS Acting Drugs: Caution should be used when taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs (7.2) • Benzodiazepines: Diazepam - increased t½, alprazolam – further psychomotor performance decrement due to increased levels (7.7) • Antipsychotics: Potential for elevation of haloperidol and clozapine levels (7.7) • Anticonvulsants: Potential for elevated phenytoin and carbamazepine levels and clinical anticonvulsant toxicity (7.7) • Serotonergic Drugs: (2.9 , 2.10 , 4.1 , 5.2) • Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin): May potentiate the risk of bleeding (7.4) • Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins: May cause a shift in plasma concentrations (7.6 , 7.7) • Olanzapine: When used in combination with fluoxetine, also refer to the Drug Interactions section of the package insert for Symbyax (7.7) • Drugs that Prolong the QT Interval: Do not use fluoxetine with thioridazine or pimozide. Use with caution in combination with other drugs that prolong the QT interval ( 4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) [See Dosage and Administration (2.9, 2.10 ), Contraindications (4.1) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Lithium levels should be monitored when these drugs are administered concomitantly [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Concomitant use of other highly protein-bound drugs can increase the concentration of fluoxetine[see Contraindications (4.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.11) , Drug Interactions (7.7) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): ( 2.9 , 2.10 , 4.1 , 5.2 ) Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 : Fluoxetine is a potent inhibitor of CYP2D6 enzyme pathway ( 7.7 ) Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs): Monitor TCA levels during coadministration with fluoxetine or when fluoxetine has been recently discontinued ( 5.2 , 7.7 ) CNS Acting Drugs: Caution should be used when taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs ( 7.2 ) Benzodiazepines: Diazepam – increased t½, alprazolam - further psychomotor performance decrement due to increased levels ( 7.7 ) Antipsychotics: Potential for elevation of haloperidol and clozapine levels ( 7.7 ) Anticonvulsants: Potential for elevated phenytoin and carbamazepine levels and clinical anticonvulsant toxicity ( 7.7 ) Serotonergic Drugs: ( 2.9 , 2.10 , 4.1 , 5.2 ) Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g. 7.3 Serotonergic Drugs [see Dosage and Administration (2.9 , 2.10) , Contraindications (4.1) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. While a specific study with pimozide and fluoxetine has not been conducted, the potential for drug interactions or QT prolongation warrants restricting the concurrent use of pimozide and fluoxetine [see Contraindications (4.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.11) , and Drug Interactions (7.8)]. Thioridazine — Thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued, because of the risk of QT Prolongation [see Contraindications (4.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.11) , and Drug Interactions (7.8)]. Due to the risk of serious ventricular arrhythmias and sudden death potentially associated with elevated plasma levels of thioridazine, thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued [see Contraindications (4.2)] . Benzodiazapines — The half-life of concurrently administered diazepam may be prolonged in some patients [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): (2.9, 2.10, 4.1 , 5.2 ) Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6: Fluoxetine is a potent inhibitor of CYP2D6 enzyme pathway ( 7.7 ) Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs): Monitor TCA levels during coadministration with fluoxetine or when fluoxetine has been recently discontinued ( 5.2 , 7.7 ) CNS Acting Drugs: Caution should be used when taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs ( 7.2 ) Benzodiazepines: Diazepam – increased t 1/2 , alprazolam - further psychomotor performance decrement due to increased levels ( 7.7 ) Antipsychotics: Potential for elevation of haloperidol and clozapine levels ( 7.7 ) Anticonvulsants: Potential for elevated phenytoin and carbamazepine levels and clinical anticonvulsant toxicity ( 7.7 ) Serotonergic Drugs: (2.9, 2.10, 4.1 , 5.2 ) Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin): May potentiate the risk of bleeding ( 7.4 ) Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins: May cause a shift in plasma concentrations ( 7.6 , 7.7 ) Olanzapine: When used in combination with fluoxetine, also refer to the Drug Interactions section of the package insert for Symbyax ® ( 7.7 ) Drugs that Prolong the QT Interval: Do not use fluoxetine with thioridazine or pimozide. Use with caution in combination with other drugs that prolong the QT interval ( 4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) [See Dosage and Administration (2.9, 2.10), Contraindications ( 4.1 ), and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . In evaluating individual cases, consideration should be given to using lower initial doses of the concomitantly administered drugs, using conservative titration schedules, and monitoring of clinical status [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of fluoxetine and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when fluoxetine is initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . 7.6 Potential for Other Drugs to affect Fluoxetine Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins — Because fluoxetine is tightly bound to plasma proteins, adverse effects may result from displacement of protein-bound fluoxetine by other tightly-bound drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . While a specific study with pimozide and fluoxetine has not been conducted, the potential for drug interactions or QT prolongation warrants restricting the concurrent use of pimozide and fluoxetine [see Contraindications ( 4.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ), and Drug Interactions ( 7.8 )] . Thioridazine — Thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued, because of the risk of QT Prolongation [see Contraindications ( 4.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ), and Drug Interactions ( 7.8 )] . Due to the risk of serious ventricular arrhythmias and sudden death potentially associated with elevated plasma levels of thioridazine, thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued [see Contraindications ( 4.2 )] . Thus, the dose of TCAs may need to be reduced and plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored temporarily when fluoxetine is coadministered or has been recently discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Benzodiazepines — The half-life of concurrently administered diazepam may be prolonged in some patients [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Lithium levels should be monitored when these drugs are administered concomitantly [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins — Because fluoxetine is tightly bound to plasma proteins, the administration of fluoxetine to a patient taking another drug that is tightly bound to protein (e.g., Coumadin ® , digitoxin) may cause a shift in plasma concentrations potentially resulting in an adverse effect [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . When using fluoxetine and olanzapine and in combination, also refer to the Drug Interactions section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . Concomitant use of other highly protein-bound drugs can increase the concentration of fluoxetine [see Contraindications ( 4.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.7 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): (2.9 , 2.10 , 4.1 , 5.2 ) Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6: Fluoxetine is a potent inhibitor of CYP2D6 enzyme pathway (7.7) Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs): Monitor TCA levels during coadministration with fluoxetine or when fluoxetine has been recently discontinued (5.2 , 7.7) CNS Acting Drugs: Caution should be used when taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs (7.2) Benzodiazepines: Diazepam - increased t½, alprazolam – further psychomotor performance decrement due to increased levels (7.7) Antipsychotics: Potential for elevation of haloperidol and clozapine levels (7.7) Anticonvulsants: Potential for elevated phenytoin and carbamazepine levels and clinical anticonvulsant toxicity (7.7) Serotonergic Drugs: (2.9 , 2.10 , 4.1 , 5.2) Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin): May potentiate the risk of bleeding (7.4) Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins: May cause a shift in plasma concentrations (7.6 , 7.7) Olanzapine: When used in combination with fluoxetine, also refer to the Drug Interactions section of the package insert for Symbyax (7.7) Drugs that Prolong the QT Interval: Do not use fluoxetine with thioridazine or pimozide. While a specific study with pimozide and fluoxetine has not been conducted, the potential for drug interactions or QT prolongation warrants restricting the concurrent use of pimozide and fluoxetine [see Contraindications (4.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.11), and Drug Interactions (7.8) ] . Concomitant use of other highly protein-bound drugs can increase the concentration of fluoxetine [see Contraindications (4.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.11), Drug Interactions (7.7) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): ( 2.9 , 2.10 , 4.1 , 5.2 ) Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6: Fluoxetine is a potent inhibitor of CYP2D6 enzyme pathway. ( 7.7 ) Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs): Monitor TCA levels during coadministration with fluoxetine or when fluoxetine has been recently discontinued. ( 5.2 , 7.7 ) CNS Acting Drugs: Caution should be used when taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs. ( 7.2 ) Benzodiazepines: Diazepam – increased t ½ , alprazolam - further psychomotor performance decrement due to increased levels. ( 7.7 ) Antipsychotics: Potential for elevation of haloperidol and clozapine levels. ( 7.7 ) Anticonvulsants: Potential for elevated phenytoin and carbamazepine levels and clinical anticonvulsant toxicity. ( 7.7 ) Serotonergic Drugs: ( 2.9 , 2.10 , 4.1 , 5.2 ) Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin): May potentiate the risk of bleeding. ( 7.4 ) Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins: May cause a shift in plasma concentrations. ( 7.6 , 7.7 ) Olanzapine: When used in combination with fluoxetine, also refer to the Drug Interactions section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . ( 7.7 ) Drugs that Prolong the QT Interval: Do not use fluoxetine with thioridazine or pimozide. Use with caution in combination with other drugs that prolong the QT interval. ( 4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) [See Dosage and Administration (2.9 , 2.10) , Contraindications (4.1) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Epidemiological studies of the case control and cohort design that have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding have also shown that concurrent use of an NSAID or aspirin may potentiate this risk of bleeding. 7.6 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Fluoxetine Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins: Because fluoxetine is tightly bound to plasma proteins, adverse effects may result from displacement of protein bound fluoxetine by other tightly-bound drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.7 Potential for Fluoxetine to Affect Other Drugs Pimozide: Concomitant use in patients taking pimozide is contraindicated. Thioridazine: Thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued, because of the risk of QT Prolongation [see Contraindications (4.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.11) , and Drug Interactions (7.8) ] . Thioridazine administration produces a dose related prolongation of the QT interval, which is associated with serious ventricular arrhythmias, such as Torsades de Pointes-type arrhythmias and sudden death. Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6: Fluoxetine inhibits the activity of CYP2D6, and may make individuals with normal CYP2D6 metabolic activity resemble a poor metabolizer. Due to the risk of serious ventricular arrhythmias and sudden death potentially associated with elevated plasma levels of thioridazine, thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued [see Contraindications (4.2) ] . Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs): In two studies, previously stable plasma levels of imipramine and desipramine have increased greater than 2- to 10-fold when fluoxetine has been administered in combination. Benzodiazepines: The half-life of concurrently administered diazepam may be prolonged in some patients [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Antipsychotics: Some clinical data suggests a possible pharmacodynamic and/or pharmacokinetic interaction between SSRIs and antipsychotics. Anticonvulsants: Patients on stable doses of phenytoin and carbamazepine have developed elevated plasma anticonvulsant concentrations and clinical anticonvulsant toxicity following initiation of concomitant fluoxetine treatment. Lithium: There have been reports of both increased and decreased lithium levels when lithium was used concomitantly with fluoxetine. Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins: Because fluoxetine is tightly bound to plasma proteins, the administration of fluoxetine to a patient taking another drug that is tightly bound to protein (e.g., Coumadin ® , digitoxin) may cause a shift in plasma concentrations potentially resulting in an adverse effect [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Drugs Metabolized by CYP3A4: In an in vivo interaction study involving coadministration of fluoxetine with single doses of terfenadine (a CYP3A4 substrate), no increase in plasma terfenadine concentrations occurred with concomitant fluoxetine. Olanzapine: Fluoxetine (60 mg single dose or 60 mg daily dose for 8 days) causes a small (mean 16%) increase in the maximum concentration of olanzapine and a small (mean 16%) decrease in olanzapine clearance.

=== HYDRALAZINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Essential hypertension, alone or as an adjunct. Severe essential hypertension when the drug cannot be given orally or when there is an urgent need to lower blood pressure. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Severe essential hypertension when the drug cannot be given orally or when there is an urgent need to lower blood pressure.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Initiate therapy in gradually increasing dosages; adjust according to individual response. Start with 10 mg four times daily for the first 2 to 4 days, increase to 25 mg four times daily for the balance of the first week. For the second and subsequent weeks, increase dosage to 50 mg four times daily. For maintenance, adjust dosage to the lowest effective levels. The incidence of toxic reactions, particularly the L.E. cell syndrome, is high in the group of patients receiving large doses of hydrALAZINE hydrochloride tablets. In a few resistant patients, up to 300 mg of hydrALAZINE hydrochloride tablets daily may be required for a significant antihypertensive effect. In such cases, a lower dosage of hydrALAZINE hydrochloride tablets combined with a thiazide and/or reserpine or a beta blocker may be considered. However, when combining therapy, individual titration is essential to ensure the lowest possible therapeutic dose of each drug. cell syndrome, is high in the group of patients receiving large doses of hydrALAZINE. In a few resistant patients, up to 300 mg of hydrALAZINE daily may be required for a significant antihypertensive effect. In such cases, a lower dosage of hydrALAZINE combined with a thiazide and/or reserpine or a beta blocker may be considered. When there is urgent need, therapy in the hospitalized patient may be initiated intramuscularly or as a rapid intravenous bolus injection directly into the vein. Hydralazine hydrochloride injection should be used only when the drug cannot be given orally. The usual dose is 20 to 40 mg, repeated as necessary. Certain patients (especially those with marked renal damage) may require a lower dose. Blood pressure should be checked frequently. It may begin to fall within a few minutes after injection, with the average maximal decrease occurring in 10 to 80 minutes. In cases where there has been increased intracranial pressure, lowering the blood pressure may increase cerebral ischemia. Most patients can be transferred to oral hydralazine hydrochloride within 24 to 48 hours. The product should be used immediately after the vial is opened. It should not be added to infusion solutions. Hydralazine hydrochloride injection may discolor upon contact with metal; discolored solutions should be discarded. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION When there is urgent need, therapy in the hospitalized patient may be initiated intramuscularly or as a rapid intravenous bolus injection directly into the vein.
Warnings: WARNINGS ​ In a few patients hydrALAZINE may produce a clinical picture simulating systemic lupus erythematosus including glomerulonephritis. In such patients hydrALAZINE should be discontinued unless the benefit-to-risk determination requires continued antihypertensive therapy with this drug. Symptoms and signs usually regress when the drug is discontinued but residua have been detected many years later. Long-term treatment with steroids may be necessary. (See PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests .) WARNINGS In a few patients hydrALAZINE may produce a clinical picture simulating systemic lupus erythematosus including glomerulonephritis. In such patients hydrALAZINE should be discontinued unless the benefit-to-risk determination requires continued antihypertensive therapy with this drug.Symptoms and signs usually regress when the drug is discontinued but residua have been detected many years later. (See PRECAUTIONS , Laboratory Tests .) In a few patients hydralazine may produce a clinical picture simulating systemic lupus erythematosus including glomerulonephritis. (See Precautions ,) (See PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests . )
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to hydrALAZINE; coronary artery disease; mitral valvular rheumatic heart disease. Hypersensitivity to hydralazine; coronary artery disease; mitral valvular rheumatic heart disease.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions MAO inhibitors should be used with caution in patients receiving hydralazine. When other potent parenteral antihypertensive drugs, such as diazoxide, are used in combination with hydralazine, patients should be continuously observed for several hours for any excessive fall in blood pressure. Profound hypotensive episodes may occur when diazoxide injection and hydralazine injection are used concomitantly.

=== FLUCONAZOLE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluconazole tablets are indicated for the treatment of: Vaginal candidiasis (vaginal yeast infections due to Candida ). Oropharyngeal and esophageal candidiasis. In open noncomparative studies of relatively small numbers of patients, fluconazole tablets were also effective for the treatment of Candida urinary tract infections, peritonitis, and systemic Candida infections including candidemia, disseminated candidiasis, and pneumonia. Cryptococcal meningitis . Before prescribing fluconazole tablets for AIDS patients with cryptococcal meningitis , please see CLINICAL STUDIES section. Studies comparing fluconazole tablets to amphotericin B in non-HIV infected patients have not been conducted. Prophylaxis: Fluconazole tablets are also indicated to decrease the incidence of candidiasis in patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation who receive cytotoxic chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy. Specimens for fungal culture and other relevant laboratory studies (serology, histopathology) should be obtained prior to therapy to isolate and identify causative organisms. Therapy may be instituted before the results of the cultures and other laboratory studies are known; however, once these results become available, anti-infective therapy should be adjusted accordingly. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluconazole in Sodium Chloride Injection, USP is indicated for the treatment of: Oropharyngeal and esophageal candidiasis. In open noncomparative studies of relatively small numbers of patients, fluconazole was also effective for the treatment of Candida urinary tract infections, peritonitis, and systemic Candida infections including candidemia, disseminated candidiasis, and pneumonia. Cryptococcal meningitis. Before prescribing fluconazole for AIDS patients with cryptococcal meningitis, please see CLINICAL STUDIES section. Studies comparing fluconazole to amphotericin B in non-HIV infected patients have not been conducted. Prophylaxis: Fluconazole is also indicated to decrease the incidence of candidiasis in patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation who receive cytotoxic chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy. Fluconazole tablets are indicated for the treatment of: Vaginal candidiasis (vaginal yeast infections due to Candida). Before prescribing fluconazole tablets for AIDS patients with cryptococcal meningitis, please see CLINICAL STUDIES section.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage and Administration in Adults: Single Dose Vaginal candidiasis: The recommended dosage of fluconazole for vaginal candidiasis is 150 mg as a single oral dose. Multiple Dose SINCE ORAL ABSORPTION IS RAPID AND ALMOST COMPLETE, THE DAILY DOSE OF FLUCONAZOLE IS THE SAME FOR ORAL AND INTRAVENOUS ADMINISTRATION. In general, a loading dose of twice the daily dose is recommended on the first day of therapy to result in plasma concentrations close to steady-state by the second day of therapy. The daily dose of fluconazole for the treatment of infections other than vaginal candidiasis should be based on the infecting organism and the patient’s response to therapy. Treatment should be continued until clinical parameters or laboratory tests indicate that active fungal infection has subsided. An inadequate period of treatment may lead to recurrence of active infection. Patients with AIDS and cryptococcal meningitis or recurrent oropharyngeal candidiasis usually require maintenance therapy to prevent relapse. Oropharyngeal candidiasis: The recommended dosage of fluconazole for oropharyngeal candidiasis is 200 mg on the first day, followed by 100 mg once daily. Clinical evidence of oropharyngeal candidiasis generally resolves within several days, but treatment should be continued for at least 2 weeks to decrease the likelihood of relapse. Esophageal candidiasis: The recommended dosage of fluconazole for esophageal candidiasis is 200 mg on the first day, followed by 100 mg once daily. Doses up to 400 mg/day may be used, based on medical judgment of the patient’s response to therapy. Patients with esophageal candidiasis should be treated for a minimum of three weeks and for at least two weeks following resolution of symptoms. Systemic Candida infections: For systemic Candida infections including candidemia, disseminated candidiasis, and pneumonia, optimal therapeutic dosage and duration of therapy have not been established. In open, noncomparative studies of small numbers of patients, doses of up to 400 mg daily have been used. Urinary tract infections and peritonitis: For the treatment of Candida urinary tract infections and peritonitis, daily doses of 50 to 200 mg have been used in open, noncomparative studies of small numbers of patients. Cryptococcal meningitis: The recommended dosage for treatment of acute cryptococcal meningitis is 400 mg on the first day, followed by 200 mg once daily. A dosage of 400 mg once daily may be used, based on medical judgment of the patient’s response to therapy. The recommended duration of treatment for initial therapy of cryptococcal meningitis is 10 to 12 weeks after the cerebrospinal fluid becomes culture negative. The recommended dosage of fluconazole for suppression of relapse of cryptococcal meningitis in patients with AIDS is 200 mg once daily. Prophylaxis in patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation: The recommended fluconazole daily dosage for the prevention of candidiasis in patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation is 400 mg, once daily. Patients who are anticipated to have severe granulocytopenia (less than 500 neutrophils cells/mm 3 ) should start fluconazole prophylaxis several days before the anticipated onset of neutropenia, and continue for 7 days after the neutrophil count rises above 1000 cells/mm 3 . Dosage and Administration in Children: The following dose equivalency scheme should generally provide equivalent exposure in pediatric and adult patients: Pediatric Patients Adults * Some older children may have clearances similar to that of adults. Absolute doses exceeding 600 mg/day are not recommended. 3 mg/kg 100 mg 6 mg/kg 200 mg 12 * mg/kg 400 mg Experience with fluconazole in neonates is limited to pharmacokinetic studies in premature newborns. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY .) Based on the prolonged half-life seen in premature newborns (gestational age 26 to 29 weeks), these children, in the first two weeks of life, should receive the same dosage (mg/kg) as in older children, but administered every 72 hours. After the first two weeks, these children should be dosed once daily. No information regarding fluconazole pharmacokinetics in full-term newborns is available. Oropharyngeal candidiasis: The recommended dosage of fluconazole for oropharyngeal candidiasis in children is 6 mg/kg on the first day, followed by 3 mg/kg once daily. Treatment should be administered for at least 2 weeks to decrease the likelihood of relapse. Esophageal candidiasis: For the treatment of esophageal candidiasis, the recommended dosage of fluconazole in children is 6 mg/kg on the first day, followed by 3 mg/kg once daily. Doses up to 12 mg/kg/day may be used, based on medical judgment of the patient’s response to therapy. Patients with esophageal candidiasis should be treated for a minimum of three weeks and for at least 2 weeks following the resolution of symptoms. Systemic Candida infections: For the treatment of candidemia and disseminated Candida infections, daily doses of 6 to 12 mg/kg/day have been used in an open, noncomparative study of a small number of children. Cryptococcal meningitis: For the treatment of acute cryptococcal meningitis , the recommended dosage is 12 mg/kg on the first day, followed by 6 mg/kg once daily. A dosage of 12 mg/kg once daily may be used, based on medical judgment of the patient’s response to therapy. For suppression of relapse of cryptococcal meningitis in children with AIDS, the recommended dose of fluconazole is 6 mg/kg once daily. Dosage In Patients With Impaired Renal Function: Fluconazole is cleared primarily by renal excretion as unchanged drug. There is no need to adjust single dose therapy for vaginal candidiasis because of impaired renal function. In patients with impaired renal function who will receive multiple doses of fluconazole, an initial loading dose of 50 mg to 400 mg should be given. After the loading dose, the daily dose (according to indication) should be based on the following table: Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Recommended Dose (%) >50 100 ≤50 (no dialysis) 50 Hemodialysis 100% after each hemodialysis Patients on hemodialysis should receive 100% of the recommended dose after each hemodialysis; on non-dialysis days, patients should receive a reduced dose according to their creatinine clearance. These are suggested dose adjustments based on pharmacokinetics following administration of multiple doses. Further adjustment may be needed depending upon clinical condition. When serum creatinine is the only measure of renal function available, the following formula (based on sex, weight, and age of the patient) should be used to estimate the creatinine clearance in adults: Males: Weight (kg) x (140 - age) ————————————— 72 x serum creatinine (mg/100 mL) Females: 0.85 × above value Although the pharmacokinetics of fluconazole has not been studied in children with renal insufficiency, dosage reduction in children with renal insufficiency should parallel that recommended for adults. The following formula may be used to estimate creatinine clearance in children: K x linear length or height (cm) ————————————— serum creatinine (mg/100 mL) (Where K=0.55 for children older than 1 year and 0.45 for infants.) Administration Fluconazole tablets are administered orally. Fluconazole tablets can be taken with or without food. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage and Administration in Adults Multiple Dose SINCE ORAL ABSORPTION IS RAPID AND ALMOST COMPLETE, THE DAILY DOSE OF FLUCONAZOLE IS THE SAME FOR ORAL AND INTRAVENOUS ADMINISTRATION. The daily dose of fluconazole for the treatment of infection should be based on the infecting organism and the patient's response to therapy. Doses up to 400 mg/day may be used, based on medical judgment of the patient's response to therapy. A dosage of 400 mg once daily may be used, based on medical judgment of the patient's response to therapy. Dosage and Administration in Pediatric Patients Oropharyngeal candidiasis: The recommended dosage of fluconazole for oropharyngeal candidiasis in pediatric patients 6 months and older is 6 mg/kg on the first day, followed by 3 mg/kg once daily. Esophageal candidiasis: For the treatment of esophageal candidiasis, the recommended dosage of fluconazole in pediatric patients 6 months and older is 6 mg/kg on the first day, followed by 3 mg/kg once daily. Doses up to 12 mg/kg/day may be used, based on medical judgment of the patient's response to therapy. Systemic Candida infections: The following dosing regimens in Table 6 are recommended for pediatric patients to achieve systemic exposures similar to adults for the treatment of systemic Candida infections, i.e. to maintain an AUC0-24 between 400 to 800 mg*h/L. Table 6: Recommended Dosing Regimens for the Treatment of Systemic Candida Infections in Pediatric Patients Patient age Dosing regimen 3 months and older A loading dose of 25-mg/kg on the first day (not to exceed 800 mg), followed by 12-mg/kg once daily (not to exceed 400 mg). Birth to 3 months postnatal age and gestational age 30 weeks and above 25-mg/kg on the first day, followed by 12- mg/kg once daily Birth to 3 months postnatal age and gestational age less than 30 weeks 25-mg/kg on the first day, followed by 9- mg/kg once daily Patients with systemic candidiasis should be treated for a minimum of 3 weeks and for at least 2 weeks following the resolution of symptoms. Dosing in Pediatric Patients on ECMO The recommended dosage of fluconazole in pediatric patients 3 months and older on ECMO is 35-mg/kg on the first day (not to exceed 800 mg) followed by 12-mg/kg once daily (not to exceed 400 mg). For patients from birth to 3 months postnatal age, and gestational age less than 30 weeks, a loading dose of 35- mg/kg on the first day followed by 9-mg/kg once daily is recommended. For patients from birth to 3 months postnatal age and gestational age 30 weeks and above, a loading dose of 35-mg/kg on the first day followed by 12-mg/kg once daily is recommended. Cryptococcal meningitis: For the treatment of acute cryptococcal meningitis, the recommended dosage is 12 mg/kg on the first day, followed by 6 mg/kg once daily. A dosage of 12 mg/kg once daily may be used, based on medical judgment of the patient's response to therapy. For suppression of relapse of cryptococcal meningitis in pediatric patients with AIDS, the recommended dose of fluconazole is 6 mg/kg once daily. Dosage In Patients With Impaired Renal Function Fluconazole is cleared primarily by renal excretion as unchanged drug. After the loading dose, the daily dose (according to indication) should be based on the following summary: Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Recommended Dose (%) >50 100 ≤50 (no dialysis) 50 Hemodialysis 100% after each hemodialysis Patients on hemodialysis should receive 100% of the recommended dose after each hemodialysis; on non-dialysis days, patients should receive a reduced dose according to their creatinine clearance. When serum creatinine is the only measure of renal function available, the following formula (based on sex, weight, and age of the patient) should be used to estimate the creatinine clearance in adults: Males: Weight (kg) × (140 - age) 72 × serum creatinine (mg/100 mL) Females: 0.85 × above value Although the pharmacokinetics of fluconazole has not been studied in pediatric patients with renal insufficiency, dosage reduction in pediatric patientswith renal insufficiency should parallel that recommended for adults. The following formula may be used to estimate creatinine clearance in pediatric patients: K × linear length or height (cm) serum creatinine (mg/100 mL) (Where K=0.55 for pediatric patients older than 1 year and 0.45 for infants.) Administration Fluconazole in Sodium Chloride Injection, USP may be administered by intravenous infusion. Fluconazole in Sodium Chloride Injection, USP has been used safely for up to fourteen days of intravenous therapy. The intravenous infusion of fluconazole should be administered at a maximum rate of approximately 200 mg/hour, given as a continuous infusion. Fluconazole in Sodium Chloride Injection, USP in plastic containers are intended only for intravenous administration using sterile equipment. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Do not use if the solution is cloudy or precipitated or if the seal is not intact. Directions for Intravenous Use of Fluconazole in Plastic Containers Do not remove unit from overwrap until ready for use. The overwrap is a moisture barrier. The inner bag maintains the sterility of the product. CAUTION: Do not use plastic containers in series connections. Such use could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container is completed. To Open Tear overwrap down side at slit and remove solution container. Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed. This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety. The opacity will diminish gradually. After removing overwrap, check for minute leaks by squeezing inner bag firmly. If leaks are found, discard solution as sterility may be impaired. DO NOT ADD SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICATION. Preparation for Administration: Suspend container from eyelet support. Remove plastic protector from outlet port at bottom of container. Attach administration set. Refer to complete directions accompanying set. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage and Administration in Adults: Single Dose Vaginal candidiasis: The recommended dosage of fluconazole tablets for vaginal candidiasis is 150 mg as a single oral dose. The daily dose of fluconazole tablets for the treatment of infections other than vaginal candidiasis should be based on the infecting organism and the patient’s response to therapy. Oropharyngeal candidiasis: The recommended dosage of fluconazole tablets for oropharyngeal candidiasis is 200 mg on the first day, followed by 100 mg once daily. Esophageal candidiasis: The recommended dosage of fluconazole tablets for esophageal candidiasis is 200 mg on the first day, followed by 100 mg once daily. The recommended dosage of fluconazole tablets for suppression of relapse of cryptococcal meningitis in patients with AIDS is 200 mg once daily. Prophylaxis in patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation: The recommended fluconazole tablets daily dosage for the prevention of candidiasis in patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation is 400 mg, once daily. Patients who are anticipated to have severe granulocytopenia (less than 500 neutrophils cells/mm 3 ) should start fluconazole tablets prophylaxis several days before the anticipated onset of neutropenia, and continue for 7 days after the neutrophil count rises above 1000 cells/mm 3 . Oropharyngeal candidiasis: The recommended dosage of fluconazole tablets for oropharyngeal candidiasis in children is 6 mg/kg on the first day, followed by 3 mg/kg once daily. Esophageal candidiasis: For the treatment of esophageal candidiasis, the recommended dosage of fluconazole tablets in children is 6 mg/kg on the first day, followed by 3 mg/kg once daily. For suppression of relapse of cryptococcal meningitis in children with AIDS, the recommended dose of fluconazole tablets is 6 mg/kg once daily. In patients with impaired renal function who will receive multiple doses of fluconazole tablets, an initial loading dose of 50 mg to 400 mg should be given. Dosage and Administration in Adults: Single Dose Vaginal candidiasis: The recommended dosage of fluconazole tablets for vaginal candidiasis is 150 mg as a single oral dose. Patients who are anticipated to have severe granulocytopenia (less than 500 neutrophils cells/mm3) should start fluconazole tablets prophylaxis several days before the anticipated onset of neutropenia, and continue for 7 days after the neutrophil count rises above 1000 cells/mm3. 3 mg/kg 100 mg 6 mg/kg 200 mg 12* mg/kg 400 mg Experience with fluconazole in neonates is limited to pharmacokinetic studies in premature newborns. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY.) Based on the prolonged half-life seen in premature newborns (gestational age 26 to 29 weeks), these children, in the first two weeks of life, should receive the same dosage (mg/kg) as in older children, but administered every 72 hours. The daily dose of fluconazole for the treatment of infections other than vaginal candidiasis should be based on the infecting organism and the patient's response to therapy. Urinary tract infections and peritonitis: For the treatment of Candida urinary tract infections and peritonitis, daily doses of 50 mg to 200 mg have been used in open, noncomparative studies of small numbers of patients. Dosage and Administration in Children: The following dose equivalency scheme should generally provide equivalent exposure in pediatric and adult patients: Pediatric Patients Adults 3 mg/kg 100 mg 6 mg/kg 200 mg 12 Some older children may have clearances similar to that of adults. mg/kg 400 mg Experience with fluconazole in neonates is limited to pharmacokinetic studies in premature newborns. ( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY. ) Based on the prolonged half-life seen in premature newborns (gestational age 26 to 29 weeks), these children, in the first two weeks of life, should receive the same dosage (mg/kg) as in older children, but administered every 72 hours. After the loading dose, the daily dose (according to indication) should be based on the following table: Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Recommended Dose % >50 100 ≤50 (no dialysis) 50 Hemodialysis 100% after each hemodialysis Patients on hemodialysis should receive 100% of the recommended dose after each hemodialysis; on non-dialysis days, patients should receive a reduced dose according to their creatinine clearance. When serum creatinine is the only measure of renal function available, the following formula (based on sex, weight, and age of the patient) should be used to estimate the creatinine clearance in adults: Males: Wei g ht (kg) × (140 – age) 72 × serum creatinine (mg/100 mL) Females: 0.85 × above value Although the pharmacokinetics of fluconazole has not been studied in children with renal insufficiency, dosage reduction in children with renal insufficiency should parallel that recommended for adults. The following formula may be used to estimate creatinine clearance in children: K × linear length or height (cm) serum creatinine (mg/100 mL) (Where K=0.55 for children older than 1 year and 0.45 for infants.) Administration Fluconazole tablets are administered orally. Dosage and Administration in Pediatric Patients: Oropharyngeal candidiasis: The recommended dosage of fluconazole for oropharyngeal candidiasis in pediatric patients 6 months and older is 6 mg/kg on the first day, followed by 3 mg/kg once daily. Systemic Candida infections: The following dosing regimens in Table 6 are recommended for pediatric patients to achieve systemic exposures similar to adults for the treatment of systemic Candida infections, i.e., to maintain an AUC0-24 between 400 mg*h/L to 800 mg*h/L. Table 6: Recommended Dosing Regimens for the Treatment of Systemic Candida Infections in Pediatric Patients Patient age Dosing regimen 3 months and older A loading dose of 25-mg/kg on the first day (not to exceed 800 mg) followed by 12-mg/kg once daily (not to exceed 400 mg). Birth to 3 months postnatal age and gestational age 30 weeks and above 25-mg/kg on the first day, followed by 12-mg/kg once daily Birth to 3 months postnatal age and gestational age less than 30 weeks 25-mg/kg on the first day, followed by 9-mg/kg once daily Patients with systemic candidiasis should be treated for a minimum of 3 weeks and for at least 2 weeks following the resolution of symptoms. For patients from birth to 3 months postnatal age, and gestational age less than 30 weeks, a loading dose of 35-mg/kg on the first day followed by 9-mg/kg once daily is recommended. After the loading dose, the daily dose (according to indication) should be based on the following table: Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Recommended Dose ( %) >50 100 ≤50 (no dialysis) 50 Hemodialysis 100% after each hemodialysis Patients on hemodialysis should receive 100% of the recommended dose after each hemodialysis; on non-dialysis days, patients should receive a reduced dose according to their creatinine clearance. When serum creatinine is the only measure of renal function available, the following formula (based on sex, weight, and age of the patient) should be used to estimate the creatinine clearance in adults: Males: Wei g ht (kg) × (140 – age) 72 × serum creatinine (mg/100 mL) Females: 0.85 × above value Although the pharmacokinetics of fluconazole has not been studied in pediatric patients with renal insufficiency, dosage reduction in pediatric patients with renal insufficiency should parallel that recommended for adults. The following formula may be used to estimate creatinine clearance in pediatric patients: K × linear length or height (cm) serum creatinine (mg/100 mL) (Where K=0.55 for pediatric patients older than 1 year and 0.45 for infants.) Administration Fluconazole tablets are administered orally. Multiple Dose SINCE ORAL ABSORPTION IS RAPID AND ALMOST COMPLETE, THE DAILY DOSE OF FLUCONAZOLE IS THE SAME FOR ORAL TABLETS AND INTRAVENOUS ADMINISTRATION. Systemic Candida infections: For systemic Candida infections including candidemia , disseminated candidiasis, and pneumonia, optimal therapeutic dosage and duration of therapy have not been established. Dosage and Administration in Pediatric Patient: Oropharyngeal candidiasis: The recommended dosage of fluconazole for oropharyngeal candidiasis in pediatric patients 6 months and older is 6 mg/kg on the first day, followed by 3 mg/kg once daily. Systemic Candida infections : The following dosing regimens in Table 6 are recommended for pediatric patients to achieve systemic exposures similar to adults for the treatment of systemic Candida infections, i.e., to maintain an AUC 0-24 between 400-800 mg*h/L. Dosing in Pediatric Patients on ECMO The recommended dosage of fluconazole tablets in pediatric patients 3 months and older on ECMO is 35-mg/kg on the first day (not to exceed 800 mg) followed by 12-mg/kg once daily (not to exceed 400 mg). For patients from birth to 3 months postnatal age and gestational age 30 weeks and above, a loading dose of 35-mg/kg on the first day followed by 12-mg/kg once daily is recommended Cryptococcal meningitis: For the treatment of acute cryptococcal meningitis, the recommended dosage is 12 mg/kg on the first day, followed by 6 mg/kg once daily. When serum creatinine is the only measure of renal function available, the following formula (based on sex, weight, and age of the patient) should be used to estimate the creatinine clearance in adults: Males: Weight (kg) × (140 – age) 72 × serum creatinine (mg/100 mL) Females: 0.85 × above value Although the pharmacokinetics of fluconazole has not been studied in children with renal insufficiency, dosage reduction in children with renal insufficiency should parallel that recommended for adults.
Warnings: WARNINGS (1) Hepatic injury: Fluconazole should be administered with caution to patients with liver dysfunction. Fluconazole has been associated with rare cases of serious hepatic toxicity, including fatalities primarily in patients with serious underlying medical conditions. In cases of fluconazole-associated hepatotoxicity, no obvious relationship to total daily dose, duration of therapy, sex, or age of the patient has been observed. Fluconazole hepatotoxicity has usually, but not always, been reversible on discontinuation of therapy. Patients who develop abnormal liver function tests during fluconazole therapy should be monitored for the development of more severe hepatic injury. Fluconazole should be discontinued if clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop that may be attributable to fluconazole. (2) Anaphylaxis: In rare cases, anaphylaxis has been reported. (3) Dermatologic: Exfoliative skin disorders during treatment with fluconazole have been reported. Fatal outcomes have been reported in patients with serious underlying diseases. Patients with deep seated fungal infections who develop rashes during treatment with fluconazole should be monitored closely and the drug discontinued if lesions progress. Fluconazole should be discontinued in patients treated for superficial fungal infection who develop a rash that may be attributed to fluconazole. (4) Potential for fetal harm: There are no adequate and well-controlled clinical trials of fluconazole in pregnant women. Case reports describe a pattern of distinct congenital anomalies in infants exposed in utero to high dose maternal fluconazole (400 to 800 mg/day) during most or all of the first trimester. These reported anomalies are similar to those seen in animal studies. If fluconazole is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking the drug, the patient should be informed of the potential hazard to the fetus. Effective contraceptive measures should be considered in women of child-bearing potential who are being treated with fluconazole 400 to 800 mg/day and should continue throughout the treatment period and for approximately 1 week (5 to 6 half-lives) after the final dose. Epidemiological studies suggest a potential risk of spontaneous abortion and congenital abnormalities in infants whose mothers were treated with 150 mg of fluconazole as a single or repeated dose in the first trimester, but these epidemiological studies have limitations and these findings have not been confirmed in controlled clinical trials. (See PRECAUTIONS: Pregnancy . ) (See PRECAUTIONS: Pregnancy .) (1) Hepatic injury: Fluconazole should be administered with caution to patients with liver dysfunction. (See PRECAUTIONS: PREGNANCY.) Case reports describe a pattern of distinct congenital anomalies in infants exposed in utero to high dose maternal fluconazole (400 mg/day to 800 mg/day) during most or all of the first trimester. Effective contraceptive measures should be considered in women of child-bearing potential who are being treated with fluconazole 400 mg/day to 800 mg/day and should continue throughout the treatment period and for approximately 1 week (5 to 6 half-lives) after the final dose. ( See PRECAUTIONS: Pregnancy. (See PRECAUTIONS: Pregnancy. Epidemiological studies suggest a potential risk of spontaneous abortion and congenital abnormalities in infants whose mothers were treated with 150 mg of fluconazole as a single or repeated dose in the first trimester, but these epidemiological studies have limitations and these findings have not been confirmed in controlled clinical trials (see PRECAUTIONS: Pregnancy ).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Fluconazole tablets are contraindicated in patients who have shown hypersensitivity to fluconazole or to any of its excipients. There is no information regarding cross-hypersensitivity between fluconazole and other azole antifungal agents. Caution should be used in prescribing fluconazole tablets to patients with hypersensitivity to other azoles. Coadministration of other drugs known to prolong the QT interval and which are metabolized via the enzyme CYP3A4 such as erythromycin, pimozide, and quinidine are contraindicated in patients receiving fluconazole. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interaction Studies and PRECAUTIONS .) CONTRAINDICATIONS Fluconazole is contraindicated in patients who have shown hypersensitivity to fluconazole or to any of its excipients. Caution should be used in prescribing fluconazole to patients with hypersensitivity to other azoles. Fluconazole tablets are contraindicated in patients who have shown hypersensitivity to fluconazole or to any of its excipients. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: DRUG INTERACTION STUDIES and PRECAUTIONS.) ( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interaction Studies and PRECAUTIONS. ) Coadministration of other drugs known to prolong the QT interval and which are metabolized via the enzyme CYP3A4 such as erythromycin, pimozide, and quinidine are contraindicated in patients receiving fluconazole (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interaction Studies and PRECAUTIONS ).
Interactions (label): Drug Interaction Studies (See PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions) Oral contraceptives: Oral contraceptives were administered as a single dose both before and after the oral administration of fluconazole 50 mg once daily for 10 days in 10 healthy women. There was no significant difference in ethinyl estradiol or levonorgestrel AUC after the administration of 50 mg of fluconazole. The mean increase in ethinyl estradiol AUC was 6% (range: –47 to 108%) and levonorgestrel AUC increased 17% (range: –33 to 141%). In a second study, twenty-five normal females received daily doses of both 200 mg fluconazole tablets or placebo for two, ten-day periods. The treatment cycles were one month apart with all subjects receiving fluconazole during one cycle and placebo during the other. The order of study treatment was random. Single doses of an oral contraceptive tablet containing levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol were administered on the final treatment day (Day 10) of both cycles. Following administration of 200 mg of fluconazole, the mean percentage increase of AUC for levonorgestrel compared to placebo was 25% (range: –12 to 82%) and the mean percentage increase for ethinyl estradiol compared to placebo was 38% (range: –11 to 101%). Both of these increases were statistically significantly different from placebo. A third study evaluated the potential interaction of once-weekly dosing of fluconazole 300 mg to 21 normal females taking an oral contraceptive containing ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone. In this placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomized, two-way crossover study carried out over three cycles of oral contraceptive treatment, fluconazole dosing resulted in small increases in the mean AUCs of ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone compared to similar placebo dosing. The mean AUCs of ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone increased by 24% (95% C.I. range: 18 to 31%) and 13% (95% C.I. range: 8 to 18%), respectively, relative to placebo. Fluconazole treatment did not cause a decrease in the ethinyl estradiol AUC of any individual subject in this study compared to placebo dosing. The individual AUC values of norethindrone decreased very slightly (<5%) in 3 of the 21 subjects after fluconazole treatment. Cimetidine: Fluconazole 100 mg was administered as a single oral dose alone and two hours after a single dose of cimetidine 400 mg to six healthy male volunteers. After the administration of cimetidine, there was a significant decrease in fluconazole AUC and C max . There was a mean ± SD decrease in fluconazole AUC of 13% ± 11% (range: –3.4 to –31%) and C max decreased 19% ± 14% (range: –5 to –40%). However, the administration of cimetidine 600 mg to 900 mg intravenously over a four-hour period (from one hour before to 3 hours after a single oral dose of fluconazole 200 mg) did not affect the bioavailability or pharmacokinetics of fluconazole in 24 healthy male volunteers. Antacid: Administration of Maalox ® (20 mL) to 14 normal male volunteers immediately prior to a single dose of fluconazole 100 mg had no effect on the absorption or elimination of fluconazole. Hydrochlorothiazide: Concomitant oral administration of 100 mg fluconazole and 50 mg hydrochlorothiazide for 10 days in 13 normal volunteers resulted in a significant increase in fluconazole AUC and C max compared to fluconazole given alone. There was a mean ± SD increase in fluconazole AUC and C max of 45% ± 31% (range: 19 to 114%) and 43% ± 31% (range: 19 to 122%), respectively. These changes are attributed to a mean ± SD reduction in renal clearance of 30% ± 12% (range: –10 to –50%). Rifampin: Administration of a single oral 200 mg dose of fluconazole after 15 days of rifampin administered as 600 mg daily in eight healthy male volunteers resulted in a significant decrease in fluconazole AUC and a significant increase in apparent oral clearance of fluconazole. There was a mean ± SD reduction in fluconazole AUC of 23% ± 9% (range: –13 to –42%). Apparent oral clearance of fluconazole increased 32% ± 17% (range: 16 to 72%). Fluconazole half-life decreased from 33.4 ± 4.4 hours to 26.8 ± 3.9 hours. (See PRECAUTIONS .) Warfarin: There was a significant increase in prothrombin time response (area under the prothrombin time-time curve) following a single dose of warfarin (15 mg) administered to 13 normal male volunteers following oral fluconazole 200 mg administered daily for 14 days as compared to the administration of warfarin alone. There was a mean ± SD increase in the prothrombin time response (area under the prothrombin time-time curve) of 7% ± 4% (range: –2 to 13%). (See PRECAUTIONS .) Mean is based on data from 12 subjects as one of 13 subjects experienced a 2-fold increase in his prothrombin time response. Phenytoin: Phenytoin AUC was determined after 4 days of phenytoin dosing (200 mg daily, orally for 3 days followed by 250 mg intravenously for one dose) both with and without the administration of fluconazole (oral fluconazole 200 mg daily for 16 days) in 10 normal male volunteers. There was a significant increase in phenytoin AUC. The mean ± SD increase in phenytoin AUC was 88% ± 68% (range: 16 to 247%). The absolute magnitude of this interaction is unknown because of the intrinsically nonlinear disposition of phenytoin. (See PRECAUTIONS .) Cyclosporine: Cyclosporine AUC and C max were determined before and after the administration of fluconazole 200 mg daily for 14 days in eight renal transplant patients who had been on cyclosporine therapy for at least 6 months and on a stable cyclosporine dose for at least 6 weeks. There was a significant increase in cyclosporine AUC, C max , C min (24-hour concentration), and a significant reduction in apparent oral clearance following the administration of fluconazole. The mean ± SD increase in AUC was 92% ± 43% (range: 18 to 147%). The C max increased 60% ± 48% (range: –5 to 133%). The C min increased 157% ± 96% (range: 33 to 360%). The apparent oral clearance decreased 45% ± 15% (range: –15 to –60%). (See PRECAUTIONS .) Zidovudine: Plasma zidovudine concentrations were determined on two occasions (before and following fluconazole 200 mg daily for 15 days) in 13 volunteers with AIDS or ARC who were on a stable zidovudine dose for at least two weeks. There was a significant increase in zidovudine AUC following the administration of fluconazole. The mean ± SD increase in AUC was 20% ± 32% (range: –27 to 104%). The metabolite, GZDV, to parent drug ratio significantly decreased after the administration of fluconazole, from 7.6 ± 3.6 to 5.7 ± 2.2. Theophylline: The pharmacokinetics of theophylline were determined from a single intravenous dose of aminophylline (6 mg/kg) before and after the oral administration of fluconazole 200 mg daily for 14 days in 16 normal male volunteers. There were significant increases in theophylline AUC, C max , and half-life with a corresponding decrease in clearance. The mean ± SD theophylline AUC increased 21% ± 16% (range: –5 to 48%). The C max increased 13% ± 17% (range: –13 to 40%). Theophylline clearance decreased 16% ± 11% (range: –32 to 5%). The half-life of theophylline increased from 6.6 ± 1.7 hours to 7.9 ± 1.5 hours. (See PRECAUTIONS .) Quinidine: Although not studied in vitro or in vivo , concomitant administration of fluconazole with quinidine may result in inhibition of quinidine metabolism. Use of quinidine has been associated with QT prolongation and rare occurrences of torsade de pointes. Coadministration of fluconazole and quinidine is contraindicated. (See CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS .) Oral hypoglycemics: The effects of fluconazole on the pharmacokinetics of the sulfonylurea oral hypoglycemic agents tolbutamide, glipizide, and glyburide were evaluated in three placebo-controlled studies in normal volunteers. All subjects received the sulfonylurea alone as a single dose and again as a single dose following the administration of fluconazole 100 mg daily for 7 days. In these three studies, 22/46 (47.8%) of fluconazole-treated patients and 9/22 (40.1%) of placebo-treated patients experienced symptoms consistent with hypoglycemia. (See PRECAUTIONS .) Tolbutamide: In 13 normal male volunteers, there was significant increase in tolbutamide (500 mg single dose) AUC and C max following the administration of fluconazole. There was a mean ± SD increase in tolbutamide AUC of 26% ± 9% (range: 12 to 39%). Tolbutamide C max increased 11% ± 9% (range: –6 to 27%). (See PRECAUTIONS .) Glipizide: The AUC and C max of glipizide (2.5 mg single dose) were significantly increased following the administration of fluconazole in 13 normal male volunteers. There was a mean ± SD increase in AUC of 49% ± 13% (range: 27 to 73%) and an increase in C max of 19% ± 23% (range: –11 to 79%). (See PRECAUTIONS .) Glyburide: The AUC and C max of glyburide (5 mg single dose) were significantly increased following the administration of fluconazole in 20 normal male volunteers. There was a mean ± SD increase in AUC of 44% ± 29% (range: –13 to 115%) and C max increased 19% ± 19% (range: –23 to 62%). Five subjects required oral glucose following the ingestion of glyburide after 7 days of fluconazole administration. (See PRECAUTIONS .) Rifabutin: There have been published reports that an interaction exists when fluconazole is administered concomitantly with rifabutin, leading to increased serum levels of rifabutin. (See PRECAUTIONS .) Tacrolimus: There have been published reports that an interaction exists when fluconazole is administered concomitantly with tacrolimus, leading to increased serum levels of tacrolimus. (See PRECAUTIONS .) Midazolam: The effect of fluconazole on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of midazolam was examined in a randomized, cross-over study in 12 volunteers. In the study, subjects ingested placebo or 400 mg fluconazole on Day 1 followed by 200 mg daily from Day 2 to Day 6. In addition, a 7.5 mg dose of midazolam was orally ingested on the first day, 0.05 mg/kg was administered intravenously on the fourth day, and 7.5 mg orally on the sixth day. Fluconazole reduced the clearance of IV midazolam by 51%. On the first day of dosing, fluconazole increased the midazolam AUC and C max by 259% and 150%, respectively. On the sixth day of dosing, fluconazole increased the midazolam AUC and C max by 259% and 74%, respectively. The psychomotor effects of midazolam were significantly increased after oral administration of midazolam but not significantly affected following intravenous midazolam. A second randomized, double-dummy, placebo-controlled, cross over study in three phases was performed to determine the effect of route of administration of fluconazole on the interaction between fluconazole and midazolam. In each phase the subjects were given oral fluconazole 400 mg and intravenous saline; oral placebo and intravenous fluconazole 400 mg; and oral placebo and IV saline. An oral dose of 7.5 mg of midazolam was ingested after fluconazole/placebo. The AUC and C max of midazolam were significantly higher after oral than IV administration of fluconazole. Oral fluconazole increased the midazolam AUC and C max by 272% and 129%, respectively. IV fluconazole increased the midazolam AUC and C max by 244% and 79%, respectively. Both oral and IV fluconazole increased the pharmacodynamic effects of midazolam. (See PRECAUTIONS . ) Azithromycin: An open-label, randomized, three-way crossover study in 18 healthy subjects assessed the effect of a single 800 mg oral dose of fluconazole on the pharmacokinetics of a single 1200 mg oral dose of azithromycin as well as the effects of azithromycin on the pharmacokinetics of fluconazole. There was no significant pharmacokinetic interaction between fluconazole and azithromycin. Voriconazole : Voriconazole is a substrate for both CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 isoenzymes. Concurrent administration of oral Voriconazole (400 mg Q12h for 1 day, then 200 mg Q12h for 2.5 days) and oral fluconazole (400 mg on Day 1, then 200 mg Q24h for 4 days) to 6 healthy male subjects resulted in an increase in C max and AUC τ of voriconazole by an average of 57% (90% CI: 20% to 107%) and 79% (90% CI: 40% to 128%), respectively. In a follow-on clinical study involving 8 healthy male subjects, reduced dosing and/or frequency of voriconazole and fluconazole did not eliminate or diminish this effect. ) Tofacitinib: Coadministration of fluconazole (400 mg on Day 1 and 200 mg once daily for 6 days [Days 2 to 7]) and tofacitinib (30 mg single dose on Day 5) in healthy subjects resulted in increased mean tofacitinib AUC and C max values of approximately 79% (90% CI: 64% to 96%) and 27% (90% CI: 12% to 44%), respectively, compared to administration of tofacitinib alone. (See PRECAUTIONS .) Abrocitinib: When co-administered with fluconazole (inhibitor of CYP2C9, 2C19, and 3A4), the systemic exposure (AUC) of abrocitinib was approximately 4.8-fold higher and the combined exposure (AUC) of abrocitinib and its active metabolites was approximately 2.5-fold higher compared to when abrocitinib was administered alone (See PRECAUTIONS ). Drug Interactions: (See CONTRAINDICATIONS .) Fluconazole is a moderate CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 inhibitor. Fluconazole is also a strong inhibitor of CYP2C19. Patients treated with fluconazole, who are also concomitantly treated with drugs with a narrow therapeutic window metabolized through CYP2C9 and CYP3A4, should be monitored for adverse reactions associated with the concomitantly administered drugs. In addition to the observed/documented interactions mentioned below, there is a risk of increased plasma concentration of other compounds metabolized by CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4 coadministered with fluconazole. Therefore, caution should be exercised when using these combinations and the patients should be carefully monitored. The enzyme inhibiting effect of fluconazole persists 4 to 5 days after discontinuation of fluconazole treatment due to the long half-life of fluconazole. Clinically or potentially significant drug interactions between fluconazole and the following agents/classes have been observed and are described in greater detail below: Abrocitinib : Drug interaction studies indicate that when co-administered with fluconazole (strong inhibitor of CYP2C19; moderate inhibitor of CYP2C9 and CYP3A4), the systemic exposure of abrocitinib and its active metabolites increased (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Avoid concomitant use of abrocitinib with fluconazole. Refer to the abrocitinib Prescribing Information for additional details. Alfentanil : A study observed a reduction in clearance and distribution volume as well as prolongation of t ½ of alfentanil following concomitant treatment with fluconazole. A possible mechanism of action is fluconazole’s inhibition of CYP3A4. Dosage adjustment of alfentanil may be necessary. Amiodarone : Concomitant administration of fluconazole with amiodarone may increase QT prolongation. Caution must be exercised if the concomitant use of fluconazole and amiodarone is necessary, notably with high-dose fluconazole (800 mg). Amitriptyline, nortriptyline : Fluconazole increases the effect of amitriptyline and nortriptyline. 5-Nortriptyline and/or S-amitriptyline may be measured at initiation of the combination therapy and after 1 week. Dosage of amitriptyline/nortriptyline should be adjusted, if necessary. Amphotericin B : Concurrent administration of fluconazole and amphotericin B in infected normal and immunosuppressed mice showed the following results: a small additive antifungal effect in systemic infection with Candida albicans , no interaction in intracranial infection with Cryptococcus neoformans , and antagonism of the two drugs in systemic infection with A. fumigatus . The clinical significance of results obtained in these studies is unknown. Azithromycin : An open-label, randomized, three-way crossover study in 18 healthy subjects assessed the effect of a single 1200 mg oral dose of azithromycin on the pharmacokinetics of a single 800 mg oral dose of fluconazole as well as the effects of fluconazole on the pharmacokinetics of azithromycin. Calcium channel blockers : Certain calcium channel antagonists (nifedipine, isradipine, amlodipine, verapamil, and felodipine) are metabolized by CYP3A4. Fluconazole has the potential to increase the systemic exposure of the calcium channel antagonists. Frequent monitoring for adverse events is recommended. Carbamazepine : Fluconazole inhibits the metabolism of carbamazepine and an increase in serum carbamazepine of 30% has been observed. There is a risk of developing carbamazepine toxicity. Dosage adjustment of carbamazepine may be necessary depending on concentration measurements/effect. Celecoxib : During concomitant treatment with fluconazole (200 mg daily) and celecoxib (200 mg), the celecoxib C max and AUC increased by 68% and 134%, respectively. Half of the celecoxib dose may be necessary when combined with fluconazole. Coumarin-type anticoagulants: Prothrombin time may be increased in patients receiving concomitant fluconazole and coumarin-type anticoagulants. In post-marketing experience, as with other azole antifungals, bleeding events (bruising, epistaxis, gastrointestinal bleeding, hematuria, and melena) have been reported in association with increases in prothrombin time in patients receiving fluconazole concurrently with warfarin. Careful monitoring of prothrombin time in patients receiving fluconazole and coumarin-type anticoagulants is recommended. Dose adjustment of warfarin may be necessary. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interaction Studies . ) Cyclophosphamide : Combination therapy with cyclophosphamide and fluconazole results in an increase in serum bilirubin and serum creatinine. The combination may be used while taking increased consideration to the risk of increased serum bilirubin and serum creatinine. Cyclosporine: Fluconazole significantly increases cyclosporine levels in renal transplant patients with or without renal impairment. Careful monitoring of cyclosporine concentrations and serum creatinine is recommended in patients receiving fluconazole and cyclosporine. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interaction Studies .) This combination may be used by reducing the dosage of cyclosporine depending on cyclosporine concentration. Fentanyl : One fatal case of possible fentanyl-fluconazole interaction was reported. The author judged that the patient died from fentanyl intoxication. Furthermore, in a randomized crossover study with 12 healthy volunteers, it was shown that fluconazole delayed the elimination of fentanyl significantly. Elevated fentanyl concentration may lead to respiratory depression. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors : The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis increases when fluconazole is coadministered with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors metabolized through CYP3A4, such as atorvastatin and simvastatin, or through CYP2C9, such as fluvastatin. If concomitant therapy is necessary, the patient should be observed for symptoms of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis and creatinine kinase should be monitored. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors should be discontinued if a marked increase in creatinine kinase is observed or myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is diagnosed or suspected. Hydrochlorothiazide : In a pharmacokinetic interaction study, coadministration of multiple-dose hydrochlorothiazide to healthy volunteers receiving fluconazole increased plasma concentrations of fluconazole by 40%. An effect of this magnitude should not necessitate a change in the fluconazole dose regimen in subjects receiving concomitant diuretics. Ibrutinib : Moderate inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as fluconazole may increase plasma ibrutinib concentrations and increase risk of adverse reactions associated with ibrutinib. If ibrutinib and fluconazole are concomitantly administered, reduce the dose of ibrutinib as instructed in ibrutinib prescribing information and the patient should be frequently monitored for any adverse reactions associated with ibrutinib. Lemborexant: Concomitant administration of fluconazole increased lemborexant C max and AUC by approximately 1.6- and 4.2-fold, respectively which is expected to increase risk of adverse reactions, such as somnolence. Avoid concomitant use of fluconazole with lemborexant. Losartan : Fluconazole inhibits the metabolism of losartan to its active metabolite (E-31 74) which is responsible for most of the angiotensin II-receptor antagonism which occurs during treatment with losartan. Patients should have their blood pressure monitored continuously. Methadone : Fluconazole may enhance the serum concentration of methadone. Dosage adjustment of methadone may be necessary. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs: The C max and AUC of flurbiprofen were increased by 23% and 81%, respectively, when coadministered with fluconazole compared to administration of flurbiprofen alone. Similarly, the C max and AUC of the pharmacologically active isomer [S-(+)-ibuprofen] were increased by 15% and 82%, respectively, when fluconazole was coadministered with racemic ibuprofen (400 mg) compared to administration of racemic ibuprofen alone. Although not specifically studied, fluconazole has the potential to increase the systemic exposure of other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) that are metabolized by CYP2C9 (e.g., naproxen, lornoxicam, meloxicam, diclofenac). Frequent monitoring for adverse events and toxicity related to NSAIDs is recommended. Adjustment of dosage of NSAIDs may be needed. Olaparib: Moderate inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as fluconazole increase olaparib plasma concentrations; concomitant use is not recommended. If the combination cannot be avoided, reduce the dose of olaparib as instructed in the LYNPARZA ® (Olaparib) Prescribing Information. Oral contraceptives : Two pharmacokinetic studies with a combined oral contraceptive have been performed using multiple doses of fluconazole. There were no relevant effects on hormone level in the 50 mg fluconazole study, while at 200 mg daily, the AUCs of ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel were increased 40% and 24%, respectively. Thus, multiple-dose use of fluconazole at these doses is unlikely to have an effect on the efficacy of the combined oral contraceptive. Oral hypoglycemics: Clinically significant hypoglycemia may be precipitated by the use of fluconazole with oral hypoglycemic agents; one fatality has been reported from hypoglycemia in association with combined fluconazole and glyburide use. Fluconazole reduces the metabolism of tolbutamide, glyburide, and glipizide and increases the plasma concentration of these agents. When fluconazole is used concomitantly with these or other sulfonylurea oral hypoglycemic agents, blood glucose concentrations should be carefully monitored and the dose of the sulfonylurea should be adjusted as necessary. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interaction Studies .) Phenytoin: Fluconazole increases the plasma concentrations of phenytoin. Careful monitoring of phenytoin concentrations in patients receiving fluconazole and phenytoin is recommended. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interaction Studies .) Pimozide : Although not studied in vitro or in vivo , concomitant administration of fluconazole with pimozide may result in inhibition of pimozide metabolism. Increased pimozide plasma concentrations can lead to QT prolongation and rare occurrences of torsade de pointes. Coadministration of fluconazole and pimozide is contraindicated. Prednisone : There was a case report that a liver-transplanted patient treated with prednisone developed acute adrenal cortex insufficiency when a 3 month therapy with fluconazole was discontinued. The discontinuation of fluconazole presumably caused an enhanced CYP3A4 activity which led to increased metabolism of prednisone. Patients on long-term treatment with fluconazole and prednisone should be carefully monitored for adrenal cortex insufficiency when fluconazole is discontinued. Quinidine: Although not studied in vitro or in vivo , concomitant administration of fluconazole with quinidine may result in inhibition of quinidine metabolism. (See CONTRAINDICATIONS .) Rifabutin: There have been reports that an interaction exists when fluconazole is administered concomitantly with rifabutin, leading to increased serum levels of rifabutin up to 80%. There have been reports of uveitis in patients to whom fluconazole and rifabutin were coadministered. Patients receiving rifabutin and fluconazole concomitantly should be carefully monitored. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interaction Studies .) Rifampin: Rifampin enhances the metabolism of concurrently administered fluconazole. Depending on clinical circumstances, consideration should be given to increasing the dose of fluconazole when it is administered with rifampin. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interaction Studies .) Saquinavir : Fluconazole increases the AUC of saquinavir by approximately 50%, C max by approximately 55%, and decreases the clearance of saquinavir by approximately 50% due to inhibition of saquinavir’s hepatic metabolism by CYP3A4 and inhibition of P-glycoprotein. Dosage adjustment of saquinavir may be necessary. Short-acting benzodiazepines: Following oral administration of midazolam, fluconazole resulted in substantial increases in midazolam concentrations and psychomotor effects. This effect on midazolam appears to be more pronounced following oral administration of fluconazole than with fluconazole administered intravenously. If short-acting benzodiazepines, which are metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system, are concomitantly administered with fluconazole, consideration should be given to decreasing the benzodiazepine dosage, and the patients should be appropriately monitored. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interaction Studies .) Sirolimus : Fluconazole increases plasma concentrations of sirolimus presumably by inhibiting the metabolism of sirolimus via CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein. This combination may be used with a dosage adjustment of sirolimus depending on the effect/concentration measurements. Tacrolimus: Fluconazole may increase the serum concentrations of orally administered tacrolimus up to 5 times due to inhibition of tacrolimus metabolism through CYP3A4 in the intestines. No significant pharmacokinetic changes have been observed when tacrolimus is given intravenously. Increased tacrolimus levels have been associated with nephrotoxicity. Dosage of orally administered tacrolimus should be decreased depending on tacrolimus concentration. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interaction Studies .) Theophylline: Fluconazole increases the serum concentrations of theophylline. Careful monitoring of serum theophylline concentrations in patients receiving fluconazole and theophylline is recommended. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interaction Studies .) Tofacitinib: Systemic exposure to tofacitinib is increased when tofacitinib is coadministered with fluconazole. Reduce the dose of tofacitinib when given concomitantly with fluconazole (i.e., from 5 mg twice daily to 5 mg once daily as instructed in the XELJANZ ® [tofacitinib] label). ) Tolvaptan : Plasma exposure to tolvaptan is significantly increased (200% in AUC; 80% in C max ) when tolvaptan, a CYP3A4 substrate, is coadministered with fluconazole, a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor. This interaction may result in the risk of a significant increase in adverse reactions associated with tolvaptan, particularly significant diuresis, dehydration, and acute renal failure. If tolvaptan and fluconazole are concomitantly administered, the tolvaptan dose should be reduced as instructed in the tolvaptan prescribing information and the patient should be frequently monitored for any adverse reactions associated with tolvaptan. Triazolam: Fluconazole increases the AUC of triazolam (single dose) by approximately 50%, C max by 20% to 32%, and increases t ½ by 25% to 50% due to the inhibition of metabolism of triazolam. Dosage adjustments of triazolam may be necessary. Vinca alkaloids : Although not studied, fluconazole may increase the plasma levels of the vinca alkaloids (e.g., vincristine and vinblastine) and lead to neurotoxicity, which is possibly due to an inhibitory effect on CYP3A4. Vitamin A : Based on a case report in one patient receiving combination therapy with all-trans-retinoid acid (an acid form of vitamin A) and fluconazole, central nervous system (CNS) related undesirable effects have developed in the form of pseudotumor cerebri, which disappeared after discontinuation of fluconazole treatment. This combination may be used but the incidence of CNS related undesirable effects should be borne in mind. Voriconazole: Avoid concomitant administration of voriconazole and fluconazole. Monitoring for adverse events and toxicity related to voriconazole is recommended; especially, if voriconazole is started within 24 h after the last dose of fluconazole. ) Zidovudine : Fluconazole increases the C max and AUC of zidovudine by 84% and 74%, respectively, due to an approximately 45% decrease in oral zidovudine clearance. The half-life of zidovudine was likewise prolonged by approximately 128% following combination therapy with fluconazole. Patients receiving this combination should be monitored for the development of zidovudine-related adverse reactions. Dosage reduction of zidovudine may be considered. Physicians should be aware that interaction studies with medications other than those listed in the CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY section have not been conducted, but such interactions may occur. (See PRECAUTIONS .) Abrocitinib: When coadministered with fluconazole (inhibitor of CYP2C9, 2C19, and 3A4), the systemic exposure (AUC) of abrocitinib was approximately 4.8-fold higher and the combined exposure (AUC) of abrocitinib and its active metabolites was approximately 2.5-fold higher compared to when abrocitinib was administered alone (See PRECAUTIONS ). In addition to the observed / documented interactions mentioned below, there is a risk of increased plasma concentration of other compounds metabolized by CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4 coadministered with fluconazole. Clinically or potentially significant drug interactions between fluconazole and the following agents/classes have been observed and are described in greater detail below: Abrocitinib : Drug interaction studies indicate that when coadministered with fluconazole (strong inhibitor of CYP2C19; moderate inhibitor of CYP2C9 and CYP3A4), the systemic exposure of abrocitinib and its active metabolites increased (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors : The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis increases when fluconazole is coadministered with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors metabolized through CYP3A4, such as atorvastatin and simvastatin, or through CYP2C9, such as fluvastatin (decreased hepatic metabolism of the statin). Dose reduction of statins may be needed. Refer to the statin-specific prescribing information for details. Ivacaftor and fixed dose ivacaftor combinations (e.g., tezacaftor/ivacaftor and ivacaftor/tezacaftor/elexacaftor): Coadministration with ivacaftor, a cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) potentiator, increased ivacaftor exposure by 3-fold. If used concomitantly with a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4, such as fluconazole, a reduction in the dose of ivacaftor (or ivacaftor combination) is recommended as instructed in the ivacaftor (or ivacaftor combination) prescribing information. Lurasidone: Concomitant use of moderate inhibitors of CYP3A4 such as fluconazole may increase lurasidone plasma concentrations. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, reduce the dose of lurasidone as instructed in the lurasidone prescribing information.

=== CLOBETASOL PROPIONATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: PHARMACOLOGICAL ACTION: In vitro, DANIL solution exhibits a potent antimycotic activity. In vivo studies in animal patterns infected with superficial fungi, it is shown that DANIL solution has an excellent therapeutic effect, especially for that caused by Pityrosporum oval. Combined with Clobetasol propionate, a potent anti-inflammatory and anti-pruritic topical corticosteroid agent, DANIL solution has the actions of anti-bacterial, anti-inflammatory, anti-allergic, anti-dandruff and anti-pruritus. Clinical trial reports that the DANIL solution has proved to be more effective and more rapid in treatment of dandruff and seborrheic dermatitis on the scalp than the single Ketoconazole lotion. Animal acute toxicity test and toxicity test for local application and clinical trial indicated that the DANIL solution is safe for use, no allergic or irritant reaction is found.
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clobetasol propionate ointment USP, 0.05% is super-high potency corticosteroid formulations indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. Treatment beyond 2 consecutive weeks is not recommended, and the total dosage should not exceed 50 g/week because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic-pituitary- adrenal (HPA) axis. Use in pediatric patients under 12 years of age is not recommended. As with other highly active corticosteroids, therapy should be discontinued when control has been achieved. If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks, reassessment of the diagnosis may be necessary. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clobetasol propionate topical solution, USP is indicated for short-term topical treatment of inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of moderate to severe corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses of the scalp. Treatment beyond 2 consecutive weeks is not recommended, and the total dosage should not exceed 50 mL/week because of the potential for the drug to suppress the HPA axis. This product is not recommended for use in pediatric patients under 12 years of age. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clobetasol propionate shampoo, 0.05% is a corticosteroid indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe scalp psoriasis in subjects 18 years of age and older ( 1 ). Limitations of Use: Do not use on the face, axillae or groin. ( 1.2 ) Avoid any contact with the eyes and lips. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Indication Clobetasol propionate shampoo, 0.05%, is a super-high potent topical corticosteroid formulation indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe forms of scalp psoriasis in subjects 18 years of age and older. Treatment should be limited to 4 consecutive weeks. The total dosage should not exceed 50 g (50 mL or 1.75 fl. oz.) per week. Patients should be instructed to use clobetasol propionate shampoo, 0.05%, for the minimum time period necessary to achieve the desired results [see Dosage and Administration (2) ] . Use in patients younger than 18 years of age is not recommended due to numerically high rates of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . 1.2 Limitations of Use Clobetasol propionate shampoo, 0.05%, should not be used on the face, groin or axillae. Avoid any contact of the drug product with the eyes and lips. In case of contact, rinse thoroughly with water all parts of the body that came in contact with the shampoo. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clobetasol propionate cream USP is super-high potency corticosteroid formulation indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. Treatment beyond 2 consecutive weeks is not recommended, and the total dosage should not exceed 50g/week because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic-pituitary- adrenal (HPA) axis. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clobetasol propionate cream, USP is a super-high potency corticosteroid formulation indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. Treatment beyond 2 consecutive weeks is not recommended, and the total dosage should not exceed 50 g/week because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clobetasol propionate ointment is a super-high potency corticosteroid formulation indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. Treatment beyond 2 consecutive weeks is not recommended, and the total dosage should not exceed 50 grams per week because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clobetasol propionate foam is a corticosteroid indicated for treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis of the scalp and mild to moderate plaque psoriasis of non-scalp regions of the body excluding the face and intertriginous areas in patients 12 years and older. Clobetasol propionate foam is a corticosteroid indicated for treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis of the scalp and mild to moderate plaque psoriasis of non-scalp regions of the body excluding the face and intertriginous areas in patients 12 years and older. ( 1 ) EXPIRATION DATE: Three years after the manufactured date. For external use only. Avoid contact with eyes. Keep out of reach of children. Do not exceed prescribed dose. Read package insert carefully before using.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin layer of clobetasol propionate ointment to the affected skin areas twice daily and rub in gently and completely. (See INDICATIONS AND USAGE .) Clobetasol propionate ointment are super- high potency topical corticosteroids; therefore, treatment should be limited to 2 consecutive weeks , and amounts greater than 50 g per week should not be used . As with other highly active corticosteroids, therapy should be discontinued when control has been achieved. If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks, reassessment of diagnosis may be necessary. Clobetasol propionate ointment should not be used with occlusive dressings . Geriatric Use : In studies where geriatric patients (65 years of age or older, see PRECAUTIONS ) have been treated with clobetasol propionate ointment, safety did not differ from that in younger patients; therefore, no dosage adjustment is recommended. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Clobetasol propionate topical solution should be applied to the affected scalp areas twice daily, once in the morning and once at night. Clobetasol propionate topical solution is potent; therefore, treatment must be limited to 2 consecutive weeks and amounts greater than 50 mL/week should not be used. Clobetasol propionate topical solution is not to be used with occlusive dressings. Geriatric Use In studies where geriatric patients (65 years of age or older, see PRECAUTIONS ) have been treated with clobetasol propionate topical solution, safety did not differ from that in younger patients; therefore, no dosage adjustment is recommended. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Clobetasol propionate shampoo, 0.05% is for topical use only, and not for ophthalmic, oral or intravaginal use. Clobetasol propionate shampoo, 0.05%, should be applied onto dry (not wet) scalp once a day in a thin film to the affected areas only, and left in place for 15 minutes before lathering and rinsing. The total dosage should not exceed 50 g (50 mL or 1.75 fl. oz.) per week. Move the hair away from the scalp so that one of the affected areas is exposed. Position the bottle over the lesion. Apply a small amount of the shampoo directly onto the lesion, letting the product naturally flow from the bottle (gently squeeze the bottle), avoiding any contact of the product with the facial skin, eyes or lips. In case of contact, rinse thoroughly with water. Spread the product so that the entire lesion is covered with a thin uniform film. Massage gently into the lesion and repeat for additional lesion(s). Wash your hands after applying clobetasol propionate shampoo, 0.05%. Leave the shampoo in place for 15 minutes, then add water, lather and rinse thoroughly all parts of the scalp and body that came in contact with the shampoo (e.g., hands, face, neck and shoulders). Avoid contact with eyes and lips. Minimize contact to non-affected areas of the body. Although no additional shampoo is necessary to cleanse your hair, you may use a non-medicated shampoo if desired. Treatment should be limited to 4 consecutive weeks. As with other corticosteroids, therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved. If complete disease control is not achieved after 4 weeks of treatment with clobetasol propionate shampoo, 0.05%, treatment with a less potent topical steroid may be substituted. If no improvement is seen within 4 weeks, reassessment of the diagnosis may be necessary. Clobetasol propionate shampoo, 0.05%, should not be used with occlusive dressings (shower cap or bathing cap) unless directed by a physician. Not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. ( 2 ) Clobetasol propionate shampoo, 0.05% should be applied onto dry (not wet) scalp once a day in a thin film to the affected areas only, and left in place for 15 minutes before lathering and rinsing. Clobetasol propionate shampoo, 0.05% contains a super-high potent topical corticosteroid; therefore treatment should be limited to 4 weeks. ( 2 ) As with other corticosteroids, therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved. ( 2 ) Total dosage should not exceed 50 g (50 mL or 1.75 fl. ( 2 ) Clobetasol propionate shampoo should not be used with a shower cap or bathing cap. ( 2 ) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin layer of clobetasol propionate cream USP to the affected skin areas twice daily and rub in gently and completely (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ). Clobetasol propionate cream is super-high potency topical corticosteroids; therefore, treatment should be limited to 2 consecutive weeks and amounts greater than 50 g/week should not be used. Clobetasol propionate cream should not be used with occlusive dressings. Geriatric Use In studies where geriatric patients (65 years of age or older, see PRECAUTIONS ) have been treated with clobetasol propionate cream, safety did not differ from that in younger patients; therefore, no dosage adjustment is recommended. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin layer of clobetasol propionate cream to the affected skin areas twice daily and rub in gently and completely (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ). Geriatric Use: In studies where geriatric patients (65 years of age or older, see PRECAUTIONS ) have been treated with clobetasol propionate cream, safety did not differ from that in younger patients; therefore, no dosage adjustment is recommended. (See INDICATIONS AND USAGE. ) Clobetasol propionate ointment is a super-high potency topical corticosteroid; therefore, treatment should be limited to 2 consecutive weeks and amounts greater than 50 grams per week should not be used. Clobetasol propionate ointment should not be used with occlusive dressings. Geriatric Use: In studies where geriatric patients (65 years of age or older, see PRECAUTIONS) have been treated with clobetasol propionate ointment, safety did not differ from that in younger patients; therefore, no dosage adjustment is recommended 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin layer of clobetasol propionate foam to the affected skin areas twice daily. Clobetasol propionate foam is a super-high-potency topical corticosteroid; therefore, limit treatment to 2 consecutive weeks. Patients should not use greater than 50 grams per week or more than 21 capfuls per week because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved. Clobetasol propionate foam should not be used with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician. Clobetasol propionate foam is for topical use only. It is not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. Avoid contact with eyes. Wash hands after each application. Avoid use on the face, groin, or axillae, or if skin atrophy is present at the treatment site. Apply a thin layer to the affected skin areas twice daily. ( 2 ) Limit treatment to 2 consecutive weeks. ( 2 ) Do not use more than 50 grams per week or more than 21 capfuls per week. ( 2 ) Discontinue therapy when control is achieved. ( 2 ) Do not use with occlusive dressings unless directed by physician. ( 2 ) Avoid use on the face, groin, or axillae, or if skin atrophy is present at the treatment site. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: External use only. Apply about 5ml of DANIL solution to moist hair, massage it gently to let the solution contact with the scalp thoroughly, after 3~5 minutes, rinse cleanly with water. For treatment purpose , the DANIL solution should be used twice/thrice a week continuously for 2~4 weeks; for prevention purpose, it should be used once every one or two weeks.
Warnings: There is no any special warning.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Clobetasol propionate ointment is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparations. CONTRAINDICATIONS Clobetasol propionate topical solution is contraindicated in patients with primary infections of the scalp, or in patients who are hypersensitive to clobetasol propionate, other corticosteroids, or any ingredient in this preparation. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Clobetasol propionate cream USP, 0.05% are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparations. CONTRAINDICATIONS Clobetasol propionate cream USP, 0.05% is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparations. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None. None ( 4 )

=== DOXYCYCLINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain effectiveness of doxycycline and other antibacterial drugs, doxycycline should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. Treatment: Doxycycline is indicated for the treatment of the following infections: Rocky Mountain spotted fever, typhus fever and the typhus group, Q fever, rickettsialpox, and tick fevers caused by Rickettsiae. Respiratory tract infections caused by Mycoplasma pneumoniae . Lymphogranuloma venereum caused by Chlamydia trachomatis . Psittacosis (ornithosis) caused by Chlamydophila psittaci . Trachoma caused by Chlamydia trachomatis , although the infectious agent is not always eliminated, as judged by immunofluorescence. Inclusion conjunctivitis caused by Chlamydia trachomatis . Uncomplicated urethral, endocervical, or rectal infections in adults caused by Chlamydia trachomatis . Nongonococcal urethritis caused by Ureaplasma urealyticum . Relapsing fever due to Borrelia recurrentis . Doxycycline is also indicated for the treatment of infections caused by the following gram-negative microorganisms: Chancroid caused by Haemophilus ducreyi . Plague due to Yersinia pestis . Tularemia due to Francisella tularensis . Cholera caused by Vibrio cholerae . Campylobacter fetus infections caused by Campylobacter fetus . Brucellosis due to Brucella species (in conjunction with streptomycin). Bartonellosis due to Bartonella bacilliformis . Granuloma inguinale caused by Klebsiella granulomatis . Because many strains of the following groups of microorganisms have been shown to be resistant to doxycycline, culture and susceptibility testing are recommended. Doxycycline is indicated for treatment of infections caused by the following gram-negative bacteria, when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug: Escherichia coli . Enterobacter aerogenes . Shigella species. Acinetobacter species. Respiratory tract infections caused by Haemophilus influenzae . Respiratory tract and urinary tract infections caused by Klebsiella species. Doxycycline is indicated for treatment of infections caused by the following gram-positive microorganisms when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug: Upper respiratory infections caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae . Anthrax due to Bacillus anthracis , including inhalational anthrax (post-exposure): to reduce the incidence or progression of disease following exposure to aerosolized Bacillus anthracis . When penicillin is contraindicated, doxycycline is an alternative drug in the treatment of the following infections: Uncomplicated gonorrhea caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae . Syphilis caused by Treponema pallidum . Yaws caused by Treponema pallidum subspecies pertenue . Listeriosis due to Listeria monocytogenes . Vincent's infection caused by Fusobacterium fusiforme . Actinomycosis caused by Actinomyces israelii . Infections caused by Clostridium species. In acute intestinal amebiasis, doxycycline may be a useful adjunct to amebicides. In severe acne, doxycycline may be useful adjunctive therapy. Prophylaxis: Doxycycline is indicated for the prophylaxis of malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum in short-term travelers (< 4 months) to areas with chloroquine and/or pyrimethamine-sulfadoxine resistant strains. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section and Information for Patients subsection of the PRECAUTIONS section.) Doxycycline is indicated for the treatment of the following infections: Rocky mountain spotted fever, typhus fever and the typhus group, Q fever, rickettsialpox, and tick fevers caused by Rickettsiae. Respiratory tract infections caused by Mycoplasma pneumoniae. Lymphogranuloma venereum caused by Chlamydia trachomatis. Psittacosis (ornithosis) caused by Chlamydophila psittaci. Trachoma caused by Chlamydia trachomatis, although the infectious agent is not always eliminated as judged by immunofluorescence. Inclusion conjunctivitis caused by Chlamydia trachomatis. Uncomplicated urethral, endocervical or rectal infections in adults caused by Chlamydia trachomatis. Nongonococcal urethritis caused by Ureaplasma urealyticum. Relapsing fever due to Borrelia recurrentis. Doxycycline is also indicated for the treatment of infections caused by the following gram-negative microorganisms: Chancroid caused by Haemophilus ducreyi. Bartonellosis due to Bartonella bacilliformis. Granuloma inguinale caused by Calymmatobacterium granulomatis. Doxycycline is indicated for treatment of infections caused by the following gram-negative microorganisms, when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug: Escherichia coli Enterobacter aerogenes Shigella species Acinetobacter species Respiratory tract infections caused by Haemophilus influenzae. Anthrax due to Bacillus anthracis, including inhalational anthrax (post-exposure): to reduce the incidence or progression of disease following exposure to aerosolized Bacillus anthracis. When penicillin is contraindicated, doxycycline is an alternative drug in the treatment of the following infections: Uncomplicated gonorrhea caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae. Syphilis caused by Treponema pallidum. Yaws caused by Treponema pertenue. Listeriosis due to Listeria monocytogenes. Vincent's infection caused by Fusobacterium fusiforme. Actinomycosis caused by Actinomyces israelii. INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain effectiveness of doxycycline capsules and other antibacterial drugs, doxycycline capsules should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Granuloma inguinale caused by Klebsiella granulomatis. Yaws caused by Treponema pallidum subspecies pertenue. Vincent’s infection caused by Fusobacterium fusiforme. Trachoma caused by Chlamydia trachomatis , although the infectious agent is not always eliminated as judged by immunofluorescence. Uncomplicated urethral, endocervical or rectal infections in adults caused by Chlamydia trachomatis . Plague due to Yersinia pestis. Tularemia due to Francisella tularensis. Cholera caused by Vibrio cholerae. Campylobacter fetus infections caused by Campylobacter fetus. Doxycycline is indicated for treatment of infections caused by the following gram-positive microorganisms when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug: Upper respiratory infections caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae. Anthrax due to Bacillus anthracis , including inhalational anthrax (post-exposure): to reduce the incidence or progression of disease following exposure to aerosolized Bacillus anthracis. INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain effectiveness of doxycycline hyclate and other antibacterial drugs, doxycycline hyclate should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Treatment: Doxycycline is indicated for the treatment of the following infections: Rocky Mountain spotted fever, typhus fever and the typhus group, Q fever, rickettsialpox, and tick fevers caused by Rickettsiae . Trachoma caused by Chlamydia trachomatis, although the infectious agent is not always eliminated, as judged by immunofluorescence. Uncomplicated urethral, endocervical, or rectal infections in adults caused by Chlamydia trachomatis. Doxycycline is indicated for treatment of infections caused by the following gram-negative bacteria, when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug: Escherichia coli. Enterobacter aerogenes. Respiratory tract infections caused by Haemophilus influenzae. Respiratory tract and urinary tract infections caused by Klebsiella species Doxycycline is indicated for treatment of infections caused by the following gram-positive microorganisms when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug: Upper respiratory infections caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae. Prophylaxis: Doxycycline is indicated for the prophylaxis of malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum in short-term travelers (<4 months) to areas with chloroquine and/or pyrimethamine-sulfadoxine resistant strains. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section and Information for Patients subsection of the PRECAUTIONS section .) Treatment Doxycycline is indicated for the treatment of the following infections Rocky Mountain spotted fever, typhus fever and the typhus group, Q fever, rickettsialpox, and tick fevers caused by Rickettsiae. Doxycycline is indicated for treatment of infections caused by the following gram-negative bacteria when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug: Escherichia coli. Anthrax due to Bacillus anthracis, including inhalational anthrax (post-exposure): to reduce the incidence or progression of disease following exposure to aerosolized Bacillus anthracis . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets are a tetracycline-class drug indicated for: • Rickettsial infections ( 1.1 ) • Sexually transmitted infections ( 1.2 ) • Respiratory tract infections ( 1.3 ) • Specific bacterial infections ( 1.4 ) • Ophthalmic infections ( 1.5 ) • Anthrax, including inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) ( 1.6 ) • Alternative treatment for selected infections when penicillin is contraindicated ( 1.7 ) • Adjunctive therapy in acute intestinal amebiasis and severe acne ( 1.8 ) • Prophylaxis of malaria ( 1.9 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets and other antibacterial drugs, doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.10 ) 1.1 Rickettsial Infections Doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets are indicated for treatment of Rocky Mountain spotted fever, typhus fever and the typhus group, Q fever, rickettsialpox, and tick fevers caused by Rickettsiae . 1.2 Sexually Transmitted Infections Doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets are indicated for treatment of the following sexually transmitted infections: • Uncomplicated urethral, endocervical or rectal infections caused by Chlamydia trachomatis. • Nongonococcal urethritis caused by Ureaplasma urealyticum . • Lymphogranuloma venereum caused by Chlamydia trachomatis . • Granuloma inguinale caused by Klebsiella granulomatis . • Uncomplicated gonorrhea caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae. • Chancroid caused by Haemophilus ducreyi . 1.3 Respiratory Tract Infections Doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets are indicated for treatment of the following respiratory infections: • Respiratory tract infections caused by Mycoplasma pneumoniae . • Psittacosis (ornithosis) caused by Chlamydophila psittaci . • Because many strains of the following groups of microorganisms have been shown to be resistant to doxycycline, culture and susceptibility testing are recommended. • Doxycycline is indicated for treatment of infections caused by the following micro-organisms, when bacteriological testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug: - Respiratory tract infections caused by Haemophilus influenzae . - Respiratory tract infections caused by Klebsiella species. - Upper respiratory infections caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae . 1.4 Specific Bacterial Infections Doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets are indicated for treatment of the following specific bacterial infections: • Relapsing fever due to Borrelia recurrentis . • Plague due to Yersinia pestis . • Tularemia due to Francisella tularensis . • Cholera caused by Vibrio cholerae . • Campylobacter fetus infections caused by Campylobacter fetus . • Brucellosis due to Brucella species (in conjunction with streptomycin). • Bartonellosis due to Bartonella bacilliformis . Doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets are indicated for treatment of infections caused by the following gram-negative microorganisms, when bacteriological testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug: • Escherichia coli • Enterobacter aerogenes • Shigella species • Acinetobacter species • Urinary tract infections caused by Klebsiella species. 1.5 Ophthalmic Infections Doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets are indicated for treatment of the following ophthalmic infections: • Trachoma caused by Chlamydia trachomatis , although the infectious agent is not always eliminated as judged by immunofluorescence. • Inclusion conjunctivitis caused by Chlamydia trachomatis . 1.6 Anthrax, Including Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) Doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of Anthrax due to Bacillus anthracis , including inhalational anthrax (post-exposure): to reduce the incidence or progression of disease following exposure to aerosolized Bacillus anthracis . 1.7 Alternative Treatment for Selected Infections When Penicillin is Contraindicated Doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets are indicated as an alternative treatment for the following selected infections when penicillin is contraindicated: • Syphilis caused by Treponema pallidum . • Yaws caused by Treponema pallidum subspecies pertenue . • Vincent’s infection caused by Fusobacterium fusiforme. • Actinomycosis caused by Actinomyces israelii . • Infections caused by Clostridium species. 1.8 Adjunctive Therapy for Acute Intestinal Amebiasis and Severe Acne In acute intestinal amebiasis, doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets may be a useful adjunct to amebicides. 1.9 Prophylaxis of Malaria Doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets are indicated for the prophylaxis of malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum in short-term travelers (less than 4 months) to areas with chloroquine and/or pyrimethamine-sulfadoxine resistant strains [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )] . 1.10 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets and other antibacterial drugs, doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual dosage and frequency of administration of doxycycline differs from that of the other tetracyclines. Exceeding the recommended dosage may result in an increased incidence of side effects. Adults: The usual dose of oral doxycycline is 200 mg on the first day of treatment (administered 100 mg every 12 hours) followed by a maintenance dose of 100 mg/day. In the management of more severe infections (particularly chronic infections of the urinary tract), 100 mg every 12 hours is recommended. Pediatric Patients: For all pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg with severe or life-threatening infections (e.g., anthrax, Rocky Mountain spotted fever), the recommended dosage is 2.2 mg/kg of body weight administered every 12 hours. Children weighing 45 kg or more should receive the adult dose. (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .) For pediatric patients with less severe disease (greater than 8 years of age and weighing less than 45 kg), the recommended dosage schedule is 4.4 mg/kg of body weight divided into two doses on the first day of treatment, followed by a maintenance dose of 2.2 mg/kg of body weight (given as a single daily dose or divided into twice daily doses). For pediatric patients weighing over 45 kg, the usual adult dose should be used. The therapeutic antibacterial serum activity will usually persist for 24 hours following recommended dosage. When used in streptococcal infections, therapy should be continued for 10 days. Administration of adequate amounts of fluid along with capsule and tablet forms of drugs in the tetracycline class is recommended to wash down the drugs and reduce the risk of esophageal irritation and ulceration. (See ADVERSE REACTIONS .) If gastric irritation occurs, it is recommended that doxycycline be given with food or milk. The absorption of doxycycline is not markedly influenced by simultaneous ingestion of food or milk. Studies to date have indicated that administration of doxycycline at the usual recommended doses does not lead to excessive accumulation of doxycycline in patients with renal impairment. Uncomplicated gonococcal infections in adults (except anorectal infections in men): 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for 7 days. As an alternate single visit dose, administer 300 mg stat followed in one hour by a second 300 mg dose. The dose may be administered with food, including milk or carbonated beverage, as required. Uncomplicated urethral, endocervical, or rectal infection in adults caused by Chlamydia trachomatis : 100 mg, by mouth twice a day for 7 days. Nongonococcal urethritis (NGU) caused by C. trachomatis or U. urealyticum : 100 mg by mouth, twice a day for 7 days. Syphilis – early: Patients who are allergic to penicillin should be treated with doxycycline 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for 2 weeks. Syphilis of more than one year's duration: Patients who are allergic to penicillin should be treated with doxycycline 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for 4 weeks. Acute epididymo-orchitis caused by N. gonorrhoeae : 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for at least 10 days. Acute epididymo-orchitis caused by C. trachomatis : 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for at least 10 days. For prophylaxis of malaria: For adults, the recommended dose is 100 mg daily. For children over 8 years of age, the recommended dose is 2 mg/kg given once daily up to the adult dose. Prophylaxis should begin 1-2 days before travel to the malarious area. Prophylaxis should be continued daily during travel in the malarious area and for 4 weeks after the traveler leaves the malarious area. Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure): ADULTS: 100 mg of doxycycline, by mouth, twice a day for 60 days. CHILDREN: weighing less than 45 kg; 2.2 mg/kg of body weight by mouth, twice a day for 60 days. Adults The usual dose of oral doxycycline is 200 mg on the first day of treatment (administered 100 mg every 12 hours or 50 mg every 6 hours) followed by a maintenance dose of 100 mg/day. The maintenance dose may be administered as a single dose or as 50 mg every 12 hours. For Pediatric Patients above Eight Years of Age The recommended dosage schedule for pediatric patients weighing 100 pounds or less is 2 mg/lb of body weight divided into two doses on the first day of treatment, followed by 1 mg/lb of body weight given as a single daily dose or divided into two doses, on subsequent days. For more severe infections up to 2 mg/lb of body weight may be used. For pediatric patients over 100 pounds the usual adult dose should be used. Uncomplicated Gonococcal Infections in Adults (Except Anorectal Infections in Men) 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for 7 days. gonorrhoeae 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for at least 10 days. Primary and Secondary Syphilis 300 mg a day in divided doses for at least 10 days. Uncomplicated Urethral, Endocervical, or Rectal Infection in Adults Caused by Chlamydia trachomatis 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for at least 7 days. Nongonococcal Urethritis Caused by C. trachomatis and U. urealyticum 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for at least 7 days. trachomatis 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for at least 10 days. Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) ADULTS: 100 mg of doxycycline, by mouth, twice a day for 60 days. CHILDREN: weighing less than 100 pounds (45 kg); 1 mg/lb (2.2 mg/kg) of body weight, by mouth, twice a day for 60 days. Children weighing 100 pounds or more should receive the adult dose. (See ADVERSE REACTIONS .) If gastric irritation occurs, doxycycline may be given with food. Ingestion of a high fat meal has been shown to delay the time to peak plasma concentrations by an average of one hour and 20 minutes. However, in the same study, food enhanced the average peak concentration by 7.5% and the area under the curve by 5.7%. Children weighing 45 kg or more should receive the adult dose.(See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .) For pediatric patients with less severe disease (greater than 8 years of age and weighing less than 45 kg), the recommended dosage schedule is 4.4 mg/kg of body weight divided into two doses on the first day of treatment, followed by a maintenance dose of 2.2 mg/kg of body weight (given as a single daily dose or divided into twice daily doses). Prophylaxis should begin 1–2 days before travel to the malarious area. Adults: The usual dose of oral doxycycline is 200 mg on the first day of treatment (administered 100 mg every 12 hours or 50 mg every 6 hours) followed by a maintenance dose of 100 mg/day. Pediatric Patients: For all pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg with severe or life-threatening infections (e.g. anthrax, Rocky Mountain spotted fever), the recommended dosage is 2.2 mg/kg of body weight administered every 12 hours. Children weighing 45 kg or more should receive the adult dose ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ). For pediatric patients with less severe disease (greater than 8 years of age and weighing less than 45 kg), the recommended dosage schedule is 4.4 mg per kg of body weight divided into two doses on the first day of treatment, followed by a maintenance dose of 2.2 mg per kg of body weight (given as a single daily dose or divided into twice daily doses). Administration of adequate amounts of fluid along with capsule and tablet forms of drugs in the tetracycline class is recommended to wash down the drugs and reduce the risk of esophageal irritation and ulceration ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). If gastric irritation occurs, it is recommended that doxycycline be given with food or milk. gonorrhoeae: 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for at least 10 days. Primary and secondary syphilis: 300 mg a day in divided doses for at least 10 days. Uncomplicated urethral, endocervical, or rectal infection in adults caused by Chlamydia trachomatis: 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for at least 7 days. urealyticum: 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for at least 7 days. trachomatis: 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for at least 10 days. CHILDREN: weighing less than 45 kg 2.2 mg/kg of body weight, by mouth, twice a day for 60 days. Uncomplicated urethral, endocervical, or rectal infection in adults caused by Chlamydia trachomatis : 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for at least 7 days. urealyticum : 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for at least 7 days. Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) : ADULTS: 100 mg of doxycycline, by mouth, twice a day for 60 days. Adults: The usual dose of oral doxycycline hyclate tablets is 200 mg on the first day of treatment (administered 100 mg every 12 hours) followed by a maintenance dose of 100 mg/day. Syphilis of more than one year’s duration: Patients who are allergic to penicillin should be treated with doxycycline 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for 4 weeks. Prophylaxis should begin 1 to 2 days before travel to the malarious area. Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure): ADULTS: 100 mg of doxycycline hyclate tablets, by mouth, twice a day for 60 days. Uncomplicated urethral, endocervical, or rectal infection in adults caused by Chlamydia trachomatis: 100 mg, by mouth, twice a day for 7 days. urealyticum : 100 mg, by mouth twice a day for 7 days. Adults : The usual dose of oral doxycycline is 200 mg on the first day of treatment (administered 100 mg every 12 hours) followed by a maintenance dose of 100 mg/day. Pediatric Patients : For all pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg with severe or life-threatening infections (e.g., anthrax, Rocky Mountain spotted fever), the recommended dosage is 2.2 mg/kg of body weight administered every 12 hours. Uncomplicated urethral, endocervical, or rectal infection in adults caused by Chlamydia trachomatis: 100 mg, by mouth twice a day for 7 days. urealyticum: 100 mg by mouth, twice a day for 7 days. Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure): ADULTS: 100 mg of doxycycline, by mouth, twice a day for 60 days CHILDREN: weighing less than 45 kg; 2.2 mg/kg of body weight by mouth, twice a day for 60 days. Doxycycline for Oral Suspension Mixing Directions Tap bottle lightly to loosen powder. Add 47.6 mL of water to the bottle to make a total volume of 60 mL. Shake well. This prescription, when in suspension, will maintain its potency for two weeks when kept at room temperature. Discard Unused Portion After Two Weeks. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Dosage in Adult Patients: ο The usual dosage is 200 mg on the first day of treatment (administered 100 mg every 12 hours) followed by a maintenance dose of 100 mg daily. ( 2.1 ) ο In the management of more severe infections (particularly chronic infections of the urinary tract), 100 mg every 12 hours is recommended. ( 2.1 ) • Dosage in Pediatric Patients: ο For all pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg with severe or life-threatening infections (e.g., anthrax, Rocky Mountain spotted fever), the recommended dose is 2.2 mg per kg of body weight administered every 12 hours. Pediatric patients weighing 45 kg or more should receive the adult dose. ( 2.1 ) ο For pediatric patients with less severe disease (greater than 8 years of age and weighing less than 45 kg), the recommended dose is 4.4 mg per kg of body weight divided into two doses on the first day of treatment, followed by a maintenance dose of 2.2 mg per kg of body weight (given as a single daily dose or divided into two doses). ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions • Doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets are not substitutable on a mg per mg basis with other oral doxycyclines. To avoid prescribing errors, do not substitute doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets for other oral doxycyclines on a mg per mg basis because of differing bioavailability. • Do not chew or crush tablets [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )]. • The recommended dosage, frequency of administration and weight-based dosage recommendations of doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets differ from that of the other tetracyclines [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2, 2.3 , 2.4 ) ] . Exceeding the recommended dosage may result in an increased incidence of adverse reactions. • Administer doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets with an adequate amount of fluid to wash down the drug and reduce the risk of esophageal irritation and ulceration [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . • If gastric irritation occurs, doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets may be given with food or milk [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.3 Dosage in Adult Patients • The usual dosage of doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets is 200 mg on the first day of treatment (administered 100 mg every 12 hours), followed by a maintenance dose of 100 mg daily. • The maintenance dose may be administered as a single dose or as 50 mg every 12 hours. • In the management of more severe infections (particularly chronic infections of the urinary tract), 100 mg every 12 hours is recommended. 2.4 Dosage in Pediatric Patients • For all pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg with severe or life threatening infections (e.g., anthrax, Rocky Mountain spotted fever), the recommended dosage of doxycycline is 2.2 mg per kg of body weight administered every 12 hours. Pediatric patients weighing 45 kg or more should receive the adult dose [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . • For pediatric patients with less severe disease (greater than 8 years of age and weighing less than 45 kg), the recommended dosage schedule of doxycycline is 4.4 mg per kg of body weight divided into two doses on the first day of treatment, followed by a maintenance dose of 2.2 mg per kg of body weight (given as a single daily dose or divided into twice daily doses). 2.5 Dosage for Prophylaxis of Malaria For adults, the recommended dose of doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets is 100 mg daily. For pediatric patients 8 years of age and older, the recommended dose is 2 mg/kg administered once daily up to the adult dose. Prophylaxis should begin 1 or 2 days before travel to the malarious area. 2.6 Dosage for Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) For adults the recommended dosage is 100 mg of doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets, by mouth, twice-a-day for 60 days. For pediatric patients weighing less than 45 kg, the recommended dosage of doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets is 2.2 mg/kg of body weight, by mouth, twice-a-day for 60 days. 2.7 Sprinkling the Tablet Over Applesauce Doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets may also be administered by carefully breaking up the tablet and sprinkling the tablet contents (delayed-release pellets) on a spoonful of applesauce. The delayed-release pellets must not be crushed or damaged when breaking up the tablet. Any loss of pellets in the transfer would prevent using the dose. The applesauce/ doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets mixture should be swallowed immediately without chewing and may be followed by a glass of water if desired. The applesauce should not be hot, and it should be soft enough to be swallowed without chewing. In the event that a prepared dose of applesauce/ doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets mixture cannot be taken immediately, the mixture should be discarded and not stored for later use.
Warnings: WARNINGS The use of drugs of the tetracycline class during tooth development (last half of pregnancy, infancy and childhood to the age of 8 years) may cause permanent discoloration of the teeth (yellow-gray-brown). This adverse reaction is more common during long-term use of the drugs, but it has been observed following repeated short-term courses. Enamel hypoplasia has also been reported. Use doxycycline in pediatric patients 8 years of age or less only when the potential benefits are expected to outweigh the risks in severe or life-threatening conditions (e.g., anthrax, Rocky Mountain spotted fever), particularly when there are no alternative therapies. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including doxycycline, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C. difficile . C. difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD. Hypertoxin producing strains of C. difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality, as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following the use of antibacterial drugs. Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents. If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing use of antibacterial drugs not directed against C. difficile may need to be discontinued. Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibacterial treatment of C. difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. Severe skin reactions, such as exfoliative dermatitis, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) have been reported in patients receiving doxycycline. (See ADVERSE REACTIONS .) If severe skin reactions occur, doxycycline should be discontinued immediately and appropriate therapy should be instituted. Intracranial hypertension (IH, pseudotumor cerebri) has been associated with the use of tetracyclines including doxycycline. Clinical manifestations of IH include headache, blurred vision, diplopia, and vision loss; papilledema can be found on fundoscopy. Women of childbearing age who are overweight or have a history of IH are at greater risk for developing tetracycline associated IH. Concomitant use of isotretinoin and doxycycline should be avoided because isotretinoin is also known to cause pseudotumor cerebri. Although IH typically resolves after discontinuation of treatment, the possibility for permanent visual loss exists. If visual disturbance occurs during treatment, prompt ophthalmologic evaluation is warranted. Since intracranial pressure can remain elevated for weeks after drug cessation patients should be monitored until they stabilize. All tetracyclines form a stable calcium complex in any bone-forming tissue. A decrease in fibula growth rate has been observed in prematures given oral tetracycline in doses of 25 mg/kg every 6 hours. This reaction was shown to be reversible when the drug was discontinued. Results of animal studies indicate that tetracyclines cross the placenta, are found in fetal tissues, and can have toxic effects on the developing fetus (often related to retardation of skeletal development). Evidence of embryotoxicity has also been noted in animals treated early in pregnancy. If any tetracycline is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. The antianabolic action of the tetracyclines may cause an increase in BUN. Studies to date indicate that this does not occur with the use of doxycycline in patients with impaired renal function. Photosensitivity manifested by an exaggerated sunburn reaction has been observed in some individuals taking tetracyclines. Patients apt to be exposed to direct sunlight or ultraviolet light should be advised that this reaction can occur with tetracycline drugs, and treatment should be discontinued at the first evidence of skin erythema. WARNINGS THE USE OF DRUGS OF THE TETRACYCLINE CLASS DURING TOOTH DEVELOPMENT (LAST HALF OF PREGNANCY, INFANCY, AND CHILDHOOD TO THE AGE OF 8 YEARS) MAY CAUSE PERMANENT DISCOLORATION OF THE TEETH (YELLOW-GRAY-BROWN). This adverse reaction is more common during long-term use of the drugs but has been observed following repeated short-term courses. TETRACYCLINE DRUGS, THEREFORE, SHOULD NOT BE USED IN THIS AGE GROUP, EXCEPT FOR ANTHRAX, INCLUDING INHALATIONAL ANTHRAX (POST-EXPOSURE), UNLESS OTHER DRUGS ARE NOT LIKELY TO BE EFFECTIVE OR ARE CONTRAINDICATED. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use. If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C. Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibiotic treatment of C. A decrease in the fibula growth rate has been observed in prematures given oral tetracycline in doses of 25 mg/kg every six hours. Evidence of embryo toxicity has been noted in animals treated early in pregnancy. If any tetracycline is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking these drugs, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. WARNINGS The use of drugs of the tetracycline class, including doxycycline, during tooth development (last half of pregnancy, infancy and childhood to the age of 8 years) may cause permanent discoloration of the teeth (yellow-gray-brown). Use of doxycycline in pediatric patients 8 years of age or less only when the potential benefits are expected to outweigh the risks in severe or life-threatening conditions (e.g. anthrax, Rocky Mountain spotted fever), particularly when there are no alternative therapies. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including doxycycline capsules, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Intracranial hypertension (IH, pseudotumor cerebri) has been associated with the use of tetracyclines including doxycycline capsules. Concomitant use of isotretinoin and doxycycline capsules should be avoided because isotretinoin is also known to cause pseudotumor cerebri. Fixed drug eruptions have occurred with doxycycline and have been associated with worsening severity upon subsequent administrations, including generalized bullous fixed drug eruption (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). If severe skin reactions occur, discontinue doxycycline capsules immediately and institute appropriate therapy. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . C . Hypertoxin producing strains of C . If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibiotic treatment of C . Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including doxycycline hyclate tablets, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Fixed drug eruptions have occurred with doxycycline and have been associated with worsening severity upon subsequent administrations, including generalized bullous fixed drug eruption (See ADVERSE REACTIONS .) If severe skin reactions occur, discontinue doxycycline hyclate tablets immediately and institute appropriate therapy. 0Since intracranial pressure can remain elevated for weeks after drug cessation patients should be monitored until they stabilize. Clostridioides difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including doxycycline hyclate, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. If severe skin reactions occur, discontinue doxycycline hyclate immediately and institute appropriate therapy. Intracranial hypertension (IH, pseudotumor cerebri) has been associated with the use of tetracyclines including doxycycline hyclate. Concomitant use of isotretinoin and doxycycline hyclate should be avoided because isotretinoin is also known to cause pseudotumor cerebri.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS This drug is contraindicated in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any of the tetracyclines. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Doxycyline is contraindicated in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any of the tetracyclines. Doxycycline is contraindicated in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any of the tetracyclines. ( 4 )
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Because tetracyclines have been shown to depress plasma prothrombin activity, patients who are on anticoagulant therapy may require downward adjustment of their anticoagulant dosage. Since bacteriostatic drugs may interfere with the bactericidal action of penicillin, it is advisable to avoid giving tetracyclines in conjunction with penicillin. Absorption of tetracyclines is impaired by antacids containing aluminum, calcium, or magnesium, and iron-containing preparations. Absorption of tetracyclines is impaired by bismuth subsalicylate. Barbiturates, carbamazepine, and phenytoin decrease the half-life of doxycycline. The concurrent use of tetracycline and Penthrane ® (methoxyflurane) has been reported to result in fatal renal toxicity. Concurrent use of tetracycline may render oral contraceptives less effective. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Patients who are on anticoagulant therapy may require downward adjustment of their anticoagulant dosage ( 7.1 ) • Avoid co-administration of tetracyclines with penicillin ( 7.2 ) • Absorption of tetracyclines, including doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets, is impaired by antacids containing aluminum, calcium, or magnesium, bismuth subsalicylate and iron-containing preparations ( 7.3 ) • Concurrent use of tetracyclines, including doxycycline hyclate delayed-release tablets, may render oral contraceptives less effective ( 7.4 ) • Barbiturates, carbamazepine and phenytoin decrease the half-life of doxycycline ( 7.5 ) 7.1 Anticoagulant Drugs Because tetracyclines have been shown to depress plasma prothrombin activity, patients who are on anticoagulant therapy may require downward adjustment of their anticoagulant dosage. 7.2 Penicillin Since bacteriostatic drugs may interfere with the bactericidal action of penicillin, it is advisable to avoid giving tetracyclines in conjunction with penicillin. 7.3 Antacids and Iron Preparations Absorption of tetracyclines is impaired by antacids containing aluminum, calcium, or magnesium, bismuth subsalicylate, and iron-containing preparations. 7.4 Oral Contraceptives Concurrent use of tetracycline may render oral contraceptives less effective. 7.5 Barbiturates and Anti-Epileptics Barbiturates, carbamazepine, and phenytoin decrease the half-life of doxycycline. 7.6 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions False elevations of urinary catecholamines may occur due to interference with the fluorescence test.

=== LORAZEPAM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lorazepam tablets are indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety or anxiety associated with depressive symptoms. Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic. The effectiveness of lorazepam tablets in long-term use, that is, more than 4 months, has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies. The physician should periodically reassess the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lorazepam tablets areindicated for the management of anxietydisorders or for theshort-termrelief of the symptoms of anxiety or anxietyassociatedwithdepressivesymptoms.Anxiety or tensionassociatedwith the stress of everyday life usuallydoesnotrequiretreatmentwith an anxiolytic. The effectiveness of lorazepam tablets in long-termuse,thatis,morethan 4 months,has not been assessed by systematicclinicalstudies. The physicianshouldperiodicallyreassess the usefulness of the drug for the individualpatient. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lorazepam is indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety or anxiety associated with depressive symptoms. The effectiveness of lorazepam in long-term use, that is, more than 4 months, has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Lorazepam tablets are administered orally. For optimal results, dose, frequency of administration, and duration of therapy should be individualized according to patient response. To facilitate this, 0.5 mg, 1 mg, and 2 mg tablets are available. The usual range is 2 to 6 mg/day given in divided doses, the largest dose being taken before bedtime, but the daily dosage may vary from 1 to 10 mg/day. For anxiety, most patients require an initial dose of 2 to 3 mg/day given two times a day or three times a day. For insomnia due to anxiety or transient situational stress, a single daily dose of 2 to 4 mg may be given, usually at bedtime. For elderly or debilitated patients, an initial dosage of 1 to 2 mg/day in divided doses is recommended, to be adjusted as needed and tolerated. The dosage of lorazepam tablets should be increased gradually when needed to help avoid adverse effects. When higher dosage is indicated, the evening dose should be increased before the daytime doses. Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Lorazepam Tablets To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue lorazepam tablets or reduce the dosage. If a patient develops withdrawal reactions, consider pausing the taper or increasing the dosage to the previous tapered dosage level. Subsequently decrease the dosage more slowly (see and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Lorazepam tablets are administeredorally. For optimalresults,dose,frequency of administration,andduration of therapyshould be individualizedaccording to patientresponse. To facilitatethis,0.5mg, 1 mg,and 2 mgtabletsareavailable. The usualrange is 2 to 6 mg/daygivenindivideddoses, the largestdosebeingtakenbeforebedtime, but the dailydosagemayvaryfrom 1 to 10 mg/day. For anxiety,mostpatientsrequireaninitialdose of 2 to 3 mg/daygiventwotimes a day or threetimes a day. For insomnia due to anxiety or transientsituationalstress, a singledailydose of 2 to 4 mgmay be given,usuallyatbedtime. For elderly or debilitatedpatients,aninitialdosage of 1 to 2 mg/day in divideddoses is recommended, to be adjustedasneededandtolerated. The dosageoflorazepam tablets should be increasedgraduallywhenneeded to helpavoidadverse effects.Whenhigherdosage is indicated, the eveningdoseshouldbeincreasedbefore the daytimedoses. Subsequently decrease the dosage more slowly (see WARNINGS: Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Lorazepam is administered orally. The dosage of lorazepam should be increased gradually when needed to help avoid adverse effects. Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Lorazepam To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue lorazepam or reduce the dosage. Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Lorazepam Tablets To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue lorazepam or reduce the dosage. Subsequently decrease the dosage more slowly (see WARNINGS: Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence).
Warnings: WARNINGS Risks from Concomitant Use with Opioids Concomitant use of benzodiazepines, including lorazepam, and opioids may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. Because of these risks, reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Observational studies have demonstrated that concomitant use of opioid analgesics and benzodiazepines increases the risk of drug-related mortality compared to use of opioids alone. If a decision is made to prescribe lorazepam concomitantly with opioids, prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use, and follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. In patients already receiving an opioid analgesic, prescribe a lower initial dose of lorazepam than indicated in the absence of an opioid and titrate based on clinical response. If an opioid is initiated in a patient already taking lorazepam, prescribe a lower initial dose of the opioid and titrate based upon clinical response. Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when lorazepam is used with opioids. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use with the opioid have been determined (see ). Abuse, Misuse, and Addiction The use of benzodiazepines, including lorazepam, exposes users to the risks of abuse, misuse, and addiction, which can lead to overdose or death. Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines often (but not always) involve the use of doses greater than the maximum recommended dosage and commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes, including respiratory depression, overdose, or death (see ). Before prescribing lorazepam and throughout treatment, assess each patient’s risk for abuse, misuse, and addiction (e.g., using a standardized screening tool). Use of lorazepam, particularly in patients at elevated risk, necessitates counseling about the risks and proper use of lorazepam along with monitoring for signs and symptoms of abuse, misuse, and addiction. Prescribe the lowest effective dosage; avoid or minimize concomitant use of CNS depressants and other substances associated with abuse, misuse, and addiction (e.g., opioid analgesics, stimulants); and advise patients on the proper disposal of unused drug. If a substance use disorder is suspected, evaluate the patient and institute (or refer them for) early treatment, as appropriate. Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue lorazepam or reduce the dosage (a patient-specific plan should be used to taper the dose) (see ). Patients at an increased risk of withdrawal adverse reactions after benzodiazepine discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction include those who take higher dosages, and those who have had longer durations of use. Acute Withdrawal Reactions The continued use of benzodiazepines, including lorazepam, may lead to clinically significant physical dependence. Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of lorazepam after continued use, or administration of flumazenil (a benzodiazepine antagonist) may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening (e.g., seizures) (see ). Protracted Withdrawal Syndrome In some cases, benzodiazepine users have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with withdrawal symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months (see ). Pre-existing depression may emerge or worsen during use of benzodiazepines including lorazepam. Lorazepam is not recommended for use in patients with a primary depressive disorder or psychosis. Use of benzodiazepines, including lorazepam, both used alone and in combination with other CNS depressants, may lead to potentially fatal respiratory depression (see ). As with all patients on CNS-depressant drugs, patients receiving lorazepam should be warned not to operate dangerous machinery or motor vehicles and that their tolerance for alcohol and other CNS depressants will be diminished. Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome Use of lorazepam late in pregnancy can result in sedation (respiratory depression, lethargy, hypotonia) and/or withdrawal symptoms (hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties) in the neonate (see ). Monitor neonates exposed to lorazepam during pregnancy or labor for signs of sedation and monitor neonates exposed to lorazepam during pregnancy for signs of withdrawal; manage these neonates accordingly. WARNINGS Risks from Concomitant Use with Opioids Concomitantuse of benzodiazepines, including lorazepam,andopioidsmayresult in profoundsedation,respiratorydepression,coma,anddeath.Because of theserisks,reserveconcomitantprescribing of these drugs in patients for whomalternativetreatmentoptionsareinadequate. Observationalstudieshavedemonstratedthatconcomitantuse of opioid analgesicsandbenzodiazepinesincreases the risk of drug-relatedmortalitycompared to use of opioidsalone. If a decision is made to prescribelorazepam concomitantlywithopioids,prescribe the lowesteffectivedosagesandminimumdurations of concomitantuse,andfollowpatientsclosely for signsandsymptoms of respiratorydepression andsedation. In patientsalreadyreceivinganopioidanalgesic,prescribe a lowerinitialdose of lorazepam thanindicated in theabsence of anopioidandtitratebased on clinicalresponse. If an opioid is initiated in a patientalreadytakinglorazepam,prescribe a lowerinitialdose of the opioidandtitratebased upon clinicalresponse. Advise both patientsandcaregiversabout the risks of respiratorydepressionandsedationwhenlorazepam is usedwithopioids.Advisepatients not to drive or operateheavymachineryuntil the effects of concomitantusewith the opioidhavebeendetermined(see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines often (but not always) involve the use of doses greater than the maximum recommended dosage and commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes, including respiratory depression, overdose, or death (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Abuse ). Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue lorazepam or reduce the dosage (a patient-specific plan should be used to taper the dose) (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of lorazepam ). Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of lorazepam after continued use, or administration of flumazenil (a benzodiazepine antagonist) may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening (e.g., seizures) (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ). Protracted Withdrawal Syndrome In some cases, benzodiazepine users have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with withdrawal symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ). Use of benzodiazepines, including lorazepam, both used alone and in combination with other CNS depressants, may lead to potentially fatal respiratory depression (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome Use of lorazepam late in pregnancy can result in sedation (respiratory depression, lethargy, hypotonia) and/or withdrawal symptoms (hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties) in the neonate (see PRECAUTIONS: Pregnancy ). Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use with the opioid have been determined (see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ). Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines often (but not always) involve the use of doses greater than the maximum recommended dosage and commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes, including respiratory depression, overdose, or death (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE : Abuse ). Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue Lorazepam or reduce the dosage (a patient-specific plan should be used to taper the dose) (see DOSAGE AND ADMINSTRATION : Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Lorazepam ). Use of benzodiazepines, including lorazepam, both used alone and in combination with other CNS depressants, may lead to potentially fatal respiratory depression (see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ). Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use with the opioid have been determined (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue lorazepam or reduce the dosage (a patient-specific plan should be used to taper the dose) (see DOSAGE AND ADMINSTRATION: Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of lorazepam tablets ). Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of lorazepam after continued use, or administration of flumazenil (a benzodiazepine antagonist) may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening (e.g., seizures) (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ) . WARNINGS Concomitant use of benzodiazepines, including Lorazepam, and opioids may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. Because of these risks, reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use with the opioid have been determined (see PRECAUTIONS, Clinically Significant Drug Interactions). Use of benzodiazepines, including lorazepam, both used alone and in combination with other CNS depressants may lead to potentially fatal respiratory depression. (See PRECAUTIONS Clinically Significant Drug Interactions ) Use of benzodiazepines, including lorazepam, may lead to physical and psychological dependence. Physical and Psychological Dependence The use of benzodiazepines, including lorazepam, may lead to physical and psychological dependence. The risk of dependence increases with higher doses and longer term use and is further increased in patients with a history of alcoholism or drug abuse or in patients with significant personality disorders. The dependence potential is reduced when lorazepam is used at the appropriate dose for short-term treatment. Addiction-prone individuals (such as drug addicts or alcoholics) should be under careful surveillance when receiving lorazepam or other psychotropic agents. In general, benzodiazepines should be prescribed for short periods only (e.g. 2 to 4 weeks). Extension of the treatment period should not take place without reevaluation of the need for continued therapy. Continuous long-term use of the product is not recommended. Withdrawal symptoms (e.g. rebound insomnia) can appear following cessation of recommended doses after as little as one week of therapy. Abrupt discontinuation of product should be avoided and a gradual dosage-tapering schedule followed after extended therapy. Abrupt termination of treatment may be accompanied by withdrawal symptoms. Symptoms reported following discontinuation of benzodiazepines include headache, anxiety, tension, depression, insomnia, restlessness, confusion, irritability, sweating, rebound phenomena, dysphoria, dizziness, derealization, depersonalization, hyperacusis, numbness/tingling of extremities, hypersensitivity to light, noise, and physical contact/perceptual changes, involuntary movements, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, loss of appetite, hallucinations/delirium, convulsions/seizures, tremor, abdominal cramps, myalgia, agitation, palpitations, tachycardia, panic attacks, vertigo, hyperreflexia, short-term memory loss, and hyperthermia. Convulsions/seizures may be more common in patients with pre-existing seizure disorders or who are taking other drugs that lower the convulsive threshold such as antidepressants. There is evidence that tolerance develops to the sedative effects of benzodiazepines. Lorazepam may have abuse potential, especially in patients with a history of drug and/or alcohol abuse. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use with the opioid have been determined (see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions). Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines often (but not always) involve the use of doses greater than the maximum recommended dosage and commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes, including respiratory depression, overdose, or death (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE : Abuse). Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue lorazepam or reduce the dosage (a patient-specific plan should be used to taper the dose) (see DOSAGE AND ADMINSTRATION : Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of lorazepam). Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of lorazepam after continued use, or administration of flumazenil (a benzodiazepine antagonist) may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening (e.g., seizures) (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE : Dependence). Protracted Withdrawal Syndrome In some cases, benzodiazepine users have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with withdrawal symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE : Dependence ). Use of benzodiazepines, including lorazepam, both used alone and in combination with other CNS depressants, may lead to potentially fatal respiratory depression (see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Lorazepam is contraindicated in patients with: • hypersensitivity to benzodiazepines or to any components of the formulation • acute narrow-angle glaucoma. CONTRAINDICATIONS Lorazepam is contraindicated in patientswith: hypersensitivity to benzodiazepines or to anycomponents of the formulation acutenarrow-angleglaucoma. CONTRAINDICATIONS Lorazepam is contraindicated in patients with: hypersensitivity to benzodiazepines or to any components of the formulation acute narrow-angle glaucoma. CONTRAINDICATIONS Lorazepam is contraindicated in patients with - hypersensitivity to benzodiazepines or to any components of the formulation. - acute narrow-angle glaucoma.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions The concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids increases the risk of respiratory depression because of actions at different receptor sites in the CNS that control respiration. Benzodiazepines interact at GABA A sites and opioids interact primarily at mu receptors. When benzodiazepines and opioids are combined, the potential for benzodiazepines to significantly worsen opioid-related respiratory depression exists. Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. The benzodiazepines, including lorazepam, produce increased CNS-depressant effects when administered with other CNS depressants such as alcohol, barbiturates, antipsychotics, sedative/hypnotics, anxiolytics, antidepressants, narcotic analgesics, sedative antihistamines, anticonvulsants, and anesthetics. Concomitant use of clozapine and lorazepam may produce marked sedation, excessive salivation, hypotension, ataxia, delirium, and respiratory arrest. Concurrent administration of lorazepam with valproate results in increased plasma concentrations and reduced clearance of lorazepam. Lorazepam dosage should be reduced to approximately 50% when coadministered with valproate. Concurrent administration of lorazepam with probenecid may result in a more rapid onset or prolonged effect of lorazepam due to increased half-life and decreased total clearance. Lorazepam dosage needs to be reduced by approximately 50% when coadministered with probenecid. The effects of probenecid and valproate on lorazepam may be due to inhibition of glucuronidation. Administration of theophylline or aminophylline may reduce the sedative effects of benzodiazepines, including lorazepam. Concomitant use of clozapine and lorazepam may produce marked sedation, excessive salivation, hypotension, ataxia, delirium and respiratory arrest. Concurrent administration of lorazepam with valproate may result in increased plasma concentrations and reduced clearance of lorazepam. Benzodiazepines interact at GABAA sites and opioids interact primarily at mu receptors. Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. L orazepam dosage needs to be reduced by approximately 50% when coadministered with probenecid.

=== CLONAZEPAM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Seizure Disorders: Clonazepam tablets are useful alone or as an adjunct in the treatment of the Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (petit mal variant), akinetic, and myoclonic seizures. In patients with absence seizures (petit mal) who have failed to respond to succinimides, clonazepam tablets may be useful. Some loss of effect may occur during the course of clonazepam treatment (see PRECAUTIONS : Loss of Effect ). Panic Disorder: Clonazepam tablets are indicated for the treatment of panic disorder, with or without agoraphobia, as defined in DSM-V. Panic disorder is characterized by the occurrence of unexpected panic attacks and associated concern about having additional attacks, worry about the implications or consequences of the attacks, and/or a significant change in behavior related to the attacks. The efficacy of clonazepam tablets was established in two 6- to 9-week trials in panic disorder patients whose diagnoses corresponded to the DSM-IIIR category of panic disorder (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Clinical Trials) . Panic disorder (DSM-V) is characterized by recurrent unexpected panic attacks, i.e., a discrete period of intense fear or discomfort in which four (or more) of the following symptoms develop abruptly and reach a peak within 10 minutes: (1) palpitations, pounding heart or accelerated heart rate; (2) sweating; (3) trembling or shaking; (4) sensations of shortness of breath or smothering; (5) feeling of choking; (6) chest pain or discomfort; (7) nausea or abdominal distress; (8) feeling dizzy, unsteady, lightheaded or faint; (9) derealization (feelings of unreality) or depersonalization (being detached from oneself); (10) fear of losing control; (11) fear of dying; (12) paresthesias (numbness or tingling sensations); (13) chills or hot flushes. The effectiveness of clonazepam tablets in long-term use, that is, for more than 9 weeks, has not been systematically studied in controlled clinical trials. The physician who elects to use clonazepam tablets for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Seizure Disorders: Clonazepam tablets are useful alone or as an adjunct in the treatment of the Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (petit mal variant), akinetic and myoclonic seizures. Some loss of effect may occur during the course of clonazepam treatment (see PRECAUTIONS: Loss of Effect ). The efficacy of clonazepam tablets was established in two 6- to 9-week trials in panic disorder patients whose diagnoses corresponded to the DSM-IIIR category of panic disorder (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Clinical Trials ). The physician who elects to use clonazepam tablets for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long- term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Seizure Disorders: Clonazepam is useful alone or as an adjunct in the treatment of the Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (petit mal variant), akinetic, and myoclonic seizures. In patients with absence seizures (petit mal) who have failed to respond to succinimides, clonazepam may be useful. Panic Disorder: Clonazepam is indicated for the treatment of panic disorder, with or without agoraphobia, as defined in DSM-V. The efficacy of clonazepam was established in two 6- to 9-week trials in panic disorder patients whose diagnoses corresponded to the DSM-IIIR category of panic disorder (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Clinical Trials) . The effectiveness of clonazepam in long-term use, that is, for more than 9 weeks, has not been systematically studied in controlled clinical trials. The physician who elects to use clonazepam for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Seizure Disorders: Clonazepam orally disintegrating tablet is useful alone or as an adjunct in the treatment of the Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (petit mal variant), akinetic and myoclonic seizures. In patients with absence seizures (petit mal) who have failed to respond to succinimides, clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets may be useful. In some studies, up to 30% of patients have shown a loss of anticonvulsant activity, often within 3 months of administration. In some cases, dosage adjustment may reestablish efficacy. Panic Disorder: Clonazepam orally disintegrating tablet is indicated for the treatment of panic disorder, with or without agoraphobia, as defined in DSM-V. The efficacy of clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets was established in two 6- to 9-week trials in panic disorder patients whose diagnoses corresponded to the DSM-lllR category of panic disorder (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Clinical Trials ). Panic disorder (DSM-V) is characterized by recurrent unexpected panic attacks, i.e., a discrete period of intense fear or discomfort in which four (or more) of the following symptoms develop abruptly and reach a peak within 10 minutes: (1) palpitations, pounding heart or accelerated heart rate; (2) sweating; (3) trembling or shaking; (4) sensations of shortness of breath or smothering; (5) feeling of choking; (6) chest pain or discomfort; (7) nausea or abdominal distress; (8) feeling dizzy, unsteady, lightheaded or faint; (9) derealization (feelings of unreality) or depersonalization (being detached from one­self); (10) fear of losing control; (11) fear of dying; (12) paresthesias (numbness or tingling sensations); (13) chills or hot flushes. The effectiveness of clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets in long-term use, that is, for more than 9 weeks, has not been systematically studied in controlled clinical trials. The physician who elects to use clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). The efficacy of clonazepam was established in two 6- to 9-week trials in panic disorder patients whose diagnoses corresponded to the DSM-IIIR category of panic disorder (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Clinical Trials ). Seizure Disorders: Clonazepam is useful alone or as an adjunct in the treatment of the Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (petit mal variant), akinetic, and myoclonic seizures. The physician who elects to use clonazepam for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Seizure Disorders: Clonazepam tablets are useful alone or as an adjunct in the treatment of the Lennox- Gastaut syndrome (petit mal variant), akinetic and myoclonic seizures. The efficacy of clonazepam tablets was established in two 6- to 9-week trials in panic disorder patients whose diagnoses corresponded to the DSM-lIlR category of panic disorder (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Clinical Trials ).
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Clonazepam is available as a tablet. The tablets should be administered with water by swallowing the tablet whole. Seizure Disorders: The use of multiple anticonvulsants may result in an increase of CNS depressant adverse effects. This should be considered before adding clonazepam tablets to an existing anticonvulsant regimen. Adults: The initial dose for adults with seizure disorders should not exceed 1.5 mg/day divided into three doses. Dosage may be increased in increments of 0.5 mg to 1 mg every 3 days until seizures are adequately controlled or until side effects preclude any further increase. Maintenance dosage must be individualized for each patient depending upon response. Maximum recommended daily dose is 20 mg. Pediatric Patients: Clonazepam tablets are administered orally. In order to minimize drowsiness, the initial dose for infants and children (up to 10 years of age or 30 kg of body weight) should be between 0.01 and 0.03 mg/kg/day but not to exceed 0.05 mg/kg/day given in two or three divided doses. Dosage should be increased by no more than 0.25 mg to 0.5 mg every third day until a daily maintenance dose of 0.1 to 0.2 mg/kg of body weight has been reached, unless seizures are controlled or side effects preclude further increase. Whenever possible, the daily dose should be divided into three equal doses. If doses are not equally divided, the largest dose should be given before retiring. Geriatric Patients: There is no clinical trial experience with clonazepam tablets in seizure disorder patients 65 years of age and older. In general, elderly patients should be started on low doses of clonazepam tablets and observed closely (see PRECAUTIONS: Geriatric Use ). Panic Disorder: Adults: The initial dose for adults with panic disorder is 0.25 mg twice daily. An increase to the target dose for most patients of 1 mg/day may be made after 3 days. The recommended dose of 1 mg/day is based on the results from a fixed dose study in which the optimal effect was seen at 1 mg/day. Higher doses of 2, 3 and 4 mg/day in that study were less effective than the 1 mg/day dose and were associated with more adverse effects. Nevertheless, it is possible that some individual patients may benefit from doses of up to a maximum dose of 4 mg/day, and in those instances, the dose may be increased in increments of 0.125 mg to 0.25 mg twice daily every 3 days until panic disorder is controlled or until side effects make further increases undesired. To reduce the inconvenience of somnolence, administration of one dose at bedtime may be desirable. Treatment should be discontinued gradually, with a decrease of 0.125 mg twice daily every 3 days, until the drug is completely withdrawn. There is no body of evidence available to answer the question of how long the patient treated with clonazepam should remain on it. Therefore, the physician who elects to use clonazepam tablets for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. Pediatric Patients: There is no clinical trial experience with clonazepam tablets in panic disorder patients under 18 years of age. Geriatric Patients: There is no clinical trial experience with clonazepam tablets in panic disorder patients 65 years of age and older. Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Clonazepam Tablets: To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, increased seizure frequency, and status epilepticus, use a gradual taper to discontinue clonazepam tablets or reduce the dosage. If a patient develops withdrawal reactions, consider pausing the taper or increasing the dosage to the previous tapered dosage level. Subsequently decrease the dosage more slowly (see WARNINGS: Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ). Dosage may be increased in increments of 0.5 to 1 mg every 3 days until seizures are adequately controlled or until side effects preclude any further increase. Dosage should be increased by no more than 0.25 to 0.5 mg every third day until a daily maintenance dose of 0.1 to 0.2 mg/kg of body weight has been reached, unless seizures are controlled or side effects preclude further increase. In general, elderly patients should be started on low doses of clonazepam tablets and observed closely (see PRECAUTIONS, Geriatric Use ) . Nevertheless, it is possible that some individual patients may benefit from doses of up to a maximum dose of 4 mg/day, and in those instances, the dose may be increased in increments of 0.125 to 0.25 mg bid every 3 days until panic disorder is controlled or until side effects make further increases undesired. In general, elderly patients should be started on low doses of clonazepam and observed closely (see PRECAUTIONS, Geriatric Use ). Subsequently decrease the dosage more slowly (see WARNINGS: Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ) . Nevertheless, it is possible that some individual patients may benefit from doses of up to a maximum dose of 4 mg/day, and in those instances, the dose may be increased in increments of 0.125 to 0.25 mg twice daily every 3 days until panic disorder is controlled or until side effects make further increases undesired. This should be considered before adding clonazepam to an existing anticonvulsant regimen. Pediatric Patients: Clonazepam is administered orally. Geriatric Patients: There is no clinical trial experience with clonazepam in seizure disorder patients 65 years of age and older. In general, elderly patients should be started on low doses of clonazepam and observed closely (see PRECAUTIONS: Geriatric Use ). Therefore, the physician who elects to use clonazepam for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. Pediatric Patients: There is no clinical trial experience with clonazepam in panic disorder patients under 18 years of age. Geriatric Patients: There is no clinical trial experience with clonazepam in panic disorder patients 65 years of age and older. Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Clonazepam: To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, increased seizure frequency, and status epilepticus, use a gradual taper to discontinue clonazepam or reduce the dosage. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Clonazepam is available as an orally disintegrating tablet. The orally disintegrating tablet should be administered as follows: After opening the carton, peel back the foil on the blister. Do not push tablet through foil. Immediately upon opening the blister, using dry hands, remove the tablet and place it in the mouth. Tablet disintegration occurs rapidly in saliva so it can be easily swallowed with or without water. Seizure Disorders: Adults: The initial dose for adults with seizure disorders should not exceed 1.5 mg/day divided into three doses. The use of multiple anticonvulsants may result in an increase of depressant adverse effects. This should be considered before adding clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets to an existing anticonvulsant regimen. Pediatric Patients: Clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets are administered orally. Geriatric Patients: There is no clinical trial experience with clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets in seizure disorder patients 65 years of age and older. In general, elderly patients should be started on low doses of clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets and observed closely (see PRECAUTIONS: Geriatric Us e ) . Treatment should be discontinued gradually, with a decrease of 0.125 mg bid every 3 days, until the drug is completely withdrawn. Therefore, the physician who elects to use clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. Pediatric Patients: There is no clinical trial experience with clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets in panic disorder patients under 18 years of age. Geriatric Patients: There is no clinical trial experience with clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets in panic disorder patients 65 years of age and older. In general, elderly patients should be started on low doses of clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets and observed closely (see PRECAUTIONS: Geriatric Use ) . Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets: To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, increased seizure frequency, and status epilepticus, use a gradual taper to discontinue clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets or reduce the dosage. Subsequently decrease the dosage more slowly (see WARNINGS: Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE : Dependence ). Adults : The initial dose for adults with seizure disorders should not exceed 1.5 mg/day divided into three doses. Therefore, the physician who elects to use clonazepam for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. Subsequently decrease the dosage more slowly (see WARNINGS: Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence) . Adults: The initial dose for adults with panic disorder is 0.25 mg twice daily. In general, elderly patients should be started on low doses of clonazepam and observed closely (see PRECAUTIONS, Geriatric Use ) .
Warnings: WARNINGS Risks from Concomitant Use with Opioids: Concomitant use of benzodiazepines, including clonazepam tablets, and opioids may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. Because of these risks, reserve concomitant prescribing of benzodiazepines and opioids for patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Observational studies have demonstrated that concomitant use of opioid analgesics and benzodiazepines increases the risk of drug-related mortality compared to use of opioids alone. If a decision is made to prescribe clonazepam tablets concomitantly with opioids, prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use, and follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when clonazepam tablets are used with opioids (see PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients and PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Abuse, Misuse, and Addiction: The use of benzodiazepines, including clonazepam tablets, exposes users to the risks of abuse, misuse, and addiction, which can lead to overdose or death. Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines often (but not always) involve the use of doses greater than the maximum recommended dosage and commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes, including respiratory depression, overdose, or death (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Abuse ). Before prescribing clonazepam tablets and throughout treatment, assess each patient’s risk for abuse, misuse, and addiction (e.g., using a standardized screening tool). Use of clonazepam tablets, particularly in patients at elevated risk, necessitates counseling about the risks and proper use of clonazepam tablets along with monitoring for signs and symptoms of abuse, misuse, and addiction. Prescribe the lowest effective dosage; avoid or minimize concomitant use of CNS depressants and other substances associated with abuse, misuse, and addiction (e.g., opioid analgesics, stimulants); and advise patients on the proper disposal of unused drug. If a substance use disorder is suspected, evaluate the patient and institute (or refer them for) early treatment, as appropriate. Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions: To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue clonazepam tablets or reduce the dosage (a patient-specific plan should be used to taper the dose) (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of clonazepam tablets). Patients at an increased risk of withdrawal adverse reactions after benzodiazepine discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction include those who take higher dosages, and those who have had longer durations of use. Acute Withdrawal Reactions The continued use of benzodiazepines, including clonazepam tablets, may lead to clinically significant physical dependence. Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of clonazepam tablets after continued use, or administration of flumazenil (a benzodiazepine antagonist) may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening (e.g., seizures) (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ). Protracted Withdrawal Syndrome In some cases, benzodiazepine users have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with withdrawal symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ). Interference with Cognitive and Motor Performance: Since clonazepam tablets produces CNS depression, patients receiving this drug should be cautioned against engaging in hazardous occupations requiring mental alertness, such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle. They should also be warned about the concomitant use of alcohol or other CNS-depressant drugs during clonazepam therapy (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions and PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients ). Suicidal Behavior and Ideation: Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), including clonazepam tablets, increase the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior in patients taking these drugs for any indication. Patients treated with any AED for any indication should be monitored for the emergence or worsening of depression, suicidal thoughts or behavior, and/or any unusual changes in mood or behavior. Pooled analyses of 199 placebo-controlled clinical trials (mono- and adjunctive therapy) of 11 different AEDs showed that patients randomized to one of the AEDs had approximately twice the risk (adjusted Relative Risk 1.8, 95% CI:1.2, 2.7) of suicidal thinking or behavior compared to patients randomized to placebo. In these trials, which had a median treatment duration of 12 weeks, the estimated incidence rate of suicidal behavior or ideation among 27,863 AED-treated patients was 0.43% compared to 0.24% among 16,029 placebo-treated patients, representing an increase of approximately one case of suicidal thinking or behavior for every 530 patients treated. There were four suicides in drug-treated patients in the trials and none in placebo-treated patients, but the number is too small to allow any conclusion about drug effect on suicide. The increased risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior with AEDs was observed as early as one week after starting drug treatment with AEDs and persisted for the duration of treatment assessed. Because most trials included in the analysis did not extend beyond 24 weeks, the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior beyond 24 weeks could not be assessed. The risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior was generally consistent among drugs in the data analyzed. The finding of increased risk with AEDs of varying mechanisms of action and across a range of indications suggests that the risk applies to all AEDs used for any indication. The risk did not vary substantially by age (5 to 100 years) in the clinical trials analyzed. Table 1 shows absolute and relative risk by indication for all evaluated AEDs. Table 1 Risk by Indication for Antiepileptic Drugs in the Pooled Analysis Indication Placebo Patients with Events Per 1000 Patients Drug Patients with Events Per 1000 Patients Relative Risk: Incidence of Events in Drug Patients/Incidence in Placebo Patients Risk Difference: Additional Drug Patients with Events per 1000 Patients Epilepsy 1.0 3.4 3.5 2.4 Psychiatric 5.7 8.5 1.5 2.9 Other 1.0 1.8 1.9 0.9 Total 2.4 4.3 1.8 1.9 The relative risk for suicidal thoughts or behavior was higher in clinical trials for epilepsy than in clinical trials for psychiatric or other conditions, but the absolute risk differences were similar for the epilepsy and psychiatric indications. Anyone considering prescribing clonazepam tablets or any other AED must balance the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior with the risk of untreated illness. Epilepsy and many other illnesses for which AEDs are prescribed are themselves associated with morbidity and mortality and with an increased risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior. Should suicidal thoughts and behavior emerge during treatment, the prescriber needs to consider whether the emergence of these symptoms in any given patient may be related to the illness being treated. Patients, their caregivers, and families should be informed that AEDs increase the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior and should be advised of the need to be alert for the emergence or worsening of the signs and symptoms of depression, any unusual changes in mood or behavior, or the emergence of suicidal thoughts, behavior, or thoughts about self-harm. Behaviors of concern should be reported immediately to healthcare providers. Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome: Use of clonazepam tablets late in pregnancy can result in sedation (respiratory depression, lethargy, hypotonia) and/or withdrawal symptoms (hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties) in the neonate (see PRECAUTIONS: Pregnancy ). Monitor neonates exposed to clonazepam tablets during pregnancy or labor for signs of sedation and monitor neonates exposed to clonazepam tablets during pregnancy for signs of withdrawal; manage these neonates accordingly. Because of these risks, reserve concomitant prescribing of benzodiazepines and opioids in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when clonazepam tablets are used with opioids (see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients and PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions: To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue clonazepam tablets or reduce the dosage (a patient-specific plan should be used to taper the dose) (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Clonazepam Tablets ) . Patients at an increased risk of withdrawal adverse reactions after benzodiazepine discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction include those who take higher dosages, and those who have had long durations of use. Protracted Withdrawal Syndrome In some cases, benzodiazepine users have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with withdrawal symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ) . They should also be warned about the concomitant use of alcohol or other CNS-depressant drugs during clonazepam tablets therapy (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions and PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients ). Suicidal Behavior and Ideation: Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs),including clonazepam tablets, increase the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior in patients taking these drugs for any indication. Pooled analyses of 199 placebo-controlled clinical trials (mono- and adjunctive therapy) of 11 different AEDs showed that patients randomized to one of the AEDs had approximately twice the risk (adjusted Relative Risk 1.8, 95% CI: 1.2, 2.7) of suicidal thinking or behavior compared to patients randomized to placebo. The risk did not vary substantially by age (5-100 years) in the clinical trials analyzed. Table 1. Risk by Indication for Antiepileptic Drugs in the Pooled Analysis Indication Placebo Patients with Events Per 1000 Patients Drug Patients with Events Per 1000 Patients Relative Risk: Incidence of Events in Drug Patients/Incidence In Placebo Patients Risk Difference: Additional Drug Patients with Events per 1000 Patients Epilepsy 1.0 3.4 3.5 2.4 Psychiatric 5.7 8.5 1.5 2.9 Other 1.0 1.8 1.9 0.9 Total 2.4 4.3 1.8 1.9 The relative risk for suicidal thoughts or behavior was higher in clinical trials for epilepsy than in clinical trials for psychiatric or other conditions, but the absolute risk differences were similar for the epilepsy and psychiatric indications. Epilepsy and many other illnesses for which AEDs are prescribed are themselves associated with morbidity and mortality and an increased risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior. Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines often (but not always) involve the use of doses greater than the maximum recommended dosage and commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes, including respiratory depression, overdose, or death (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Abuse ) . Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of clonazepam tablets after continued use, or administration of flumazenil (a benzodiazepine antagonist) may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening (e.g., seizures) (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ) . Interference with Cognitive and Motor Performance: Since clonazepam tablets produce CNS depression, patients receiving this drug should be cautioned against engaging in hazardous occupations requiring mental alertness, such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle. Risk by Indication for Antiepileptic Drugs in the Pooled Analysis Indication Placebo Drug Patients Relative Risk: Risk Difference: Patients with with Events Per Incidence of Additional Drug Events Per 1000 Patients Events in Drug Patients with 1000 Patients Patients/Incidence Events per 1000 in Placebo Patients Patients Epilepsy 1.0 3.4 3.5 2.4 Psychiatric 5.7 8.5 1.5 2.9 Other 1.0 1.8 1.9 0.9 Total 2.4 4.3 1.8 1.9 The relative risk for suicidal thoughts or behavior was higher in clinical trials for epilepsy than in clinical trials for psychiatric or other conditions, but the absolute risk differences were similar for the epilepsy and psychiatric indications. WARNINGS Risks from Concomitant Use with Opioids: Concomitant use of benzodiazepines, including clonazepam, and opioids may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. If a decision is made to prescribe clonazepam concomitantly with opioids, prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use, and follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when clonazepam is used with opioids (see PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients and PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Abuse, Misuse, and Addiction: The use of benzodiazepines, including clonazepam, exposes users to the risks of abuse, misuse, and addiction, which can lead to overdose or death. Before prescribing clonazepam and throughout treatment, assess each patient’s risk for abuse, misuse, and addiction (e.g., using a standardized screening tool). Use of clonazepam, particularly in patients at elevated risk, necessitates counseling about the risks and proper use of clonazepam along with monitoring for signs and symptoms of abuse, misuse, and addiction. Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions: To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue clonazepam or reduce the dosage (a patient-specific plan should be used to taper the dose) (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of clonazepam). Acute Withdrawal Reactions The continued use of benzodiazepines, including clonazepam, may lead to clinically significant physical dependence. Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of clonazepam after continued use, or administration of flumazenil (a benzodiazepine antagonist) may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening (e.g., seizures) (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ). Interference with Cognitive and Motor Performance: Since clonazepam produces CNS depression, patients receiving this drug should be cautioned against engaging in hazardous occupations requiring mental alertness, such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle. Suicidal Behavior and Ideation: Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), including clonazepam, increase the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior in patients taking these drugs for any indication. Anyone considering prescribing clonazepam or any other AED must balance the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior with the risk of untreated illness. Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome: Use of clonazepam late in pregnancy can result in sedation (respiratory depression, lethargy, hypotonia) and/or withdrawal symptoms (hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties) in the neonate (see PRECAUTIONS: Pregnancy ). Monitor neonates exposed to clonazepam during pregnancy or labor for signs of sedation and monitor neonates exposed to clonazepam during pregnancy for signs of withdrawal; manage these neonates accordingly. WARNINGS Risks from Concomitant Use With Opioids: Concomitant use of benzodiazepines, including clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets, and opioids may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. If a decision is made to prescribe clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets concomitantly with opioids, prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use, and follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when clonazepam orally disintegrating tablet is used with opioids (see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients and PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Abuse, Misuse, and Addiction: The use of benzodiazepines, including clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets, exposes users to the risks of abuse, misuse, and addiction, which can lead to overdose or death. Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines often (but not always) involve the use of doses greater than the maximum recommended dosage and commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes, including respiratory depression, overdose, or death ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Abuse ) . Before prescribing clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets and throughout treatment, assess each patient’s risk for abuse, misuse, and addiction (e.g., using a standardized screening tool). Use of clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets, particularly in patients at elevated risk, necessitates counseling about the risks and proper use of clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets along with monitoring for signs and symptoms of abuse, misuse, and addiction. Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions: To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets or reduce the dosage (a patient-specific plan should be used to taper the dose) (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of CLONAZEPAM ORALLY DISINTEGRATING TABLETS ) . Acute Withdrawal Reactions: The continued use of benzodiazepines, including clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets, may lead to clinically significant physical dependence. Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets after continued use, or administration of flumazenil (a benzodiazepine antagonist) may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening (e.g., seizures) (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ) . Protracted Withdrawal Syndrome: In some cases, benzodiazepine users have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with withdrawal symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE : Dependence ). Interference With Cognitive and Motor Performance: Since clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets produces CNS depression, patients receiving this drug should be cautioned against engaging in hazardous occupations requiring mental alertness, such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle. They should also be warned about the concomitant use of alcohol or other CNS-depressant drugs during clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets therapy (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions and Information for Patients ) . Suicidal Behavior and Ideation : Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), including clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets, increase the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior in patients taking these drugs for any indication. Table 1: Risk by Indication for Antiepileptic Drugs in the Pooled Analysis Indication Placebo Patients with Events Per 1000 Patients Drug Patients with Events Per 1000 Patients Relative Risk: Incidence of Events in Drug Patients/ Incidence In Placebo Patients Risk Difference: Additional Drug Patients with Events per 1000 Patients Epilepsy 1.0 3.4 3.5 2.4 Psychiatric 5.7 8.5 1.5 2.9 Other 1.0 1.8 1.9 0.9 Total 2.4 4.3 1.8 1.9 The relative risk for suicidal thoughts or behavior was higher in clinical trials for epilepsy than in clinical trials for psychiatric or other conditions, but the absolute risk differences were similar for the epilepsy and psychiatric indications. Anyone considering prescribing clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets or any other AED must balance the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior with the risk of untreated illness. Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome: Use of clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets late in pregnancy can result in sedation (respiratory depression, lethargy, hypotonia) and/or withdrawal symptoms (hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties) in the neonate (see PRECAUTIONS: Pregnancy ). Monitor neonates exposed to clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets during pregnancy or labor for signs of sedation and monitor neonates exposed to clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets during pregnancy for signs of withdrawal; manage these neonates accordingly. Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions: To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue clonazepam or reduce the dosage (a patient-specific plan should be used to taper the dose) (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Clonazepam ) . Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of clonazepam after continued use, or administration of flumazenil (a benzodiazepine antagonist) may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening (e.g., seizures) (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ) . Table 1 Risk by Indication for Antiepileptic Drugs in the Pooled Analysis Indication Placebo Patients with Events Per 1000 Patients Drug Patients with Events Per 1000 Patients Relative Risk: Incidence of Events in Drug Patients/Incidence in Placebo Patients Risk Difference: Additional Drug Patients with Events per 1000 Patients Epilepsy Psychiatric Other Total 1.0 5.7 1.0 2.4 3.4 8.5 1.8 4.3 3.5 1.5 1.9 1.8 2.4 2.9 0.9 1.9 The relative risk for suicidal thoughts or behavior was higher in clinical trials for epilepsy than in clinical trials for psychiatric or other conditions, but the absolute risk differences were similar for the epilepsy and psychiatric indications. Pooled analyses of 199 placebo-controlled clinical trials (mono- and adjunctive therapy) of 11 different AEDs showed that patients randomized to one of the AEDs had approximately twice the risk (adjusted Relative Risk 1.8, 95% Cl:1.2, 2.7) of suicidal thinking or behavior compared to patients randomized to placebo. They should also be warned about the concomitant use of alcohol or other CNS-depressant drugs during clonazepam tablets therapy (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions and Information for Patients ).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Clonazepam tablets are contraindicated in patients with the following conditions: History of sensitivity to benzodiazepines Clinical or biochemical evidence of significant liver disease Acute narrow angle glaucoma (it may be used in patients with open angle glaucoma who are receiving appropriate therapy). CONTRAINDICATIONS Clonazepam tablets is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions: History of sensitivity to benzodiazepines Clinical or biochemical evidence of significant liver disease Acute narrow angle glaucoma (it may be used in patients with open angle glaucoma who are receiving appropriate therapy). CONTRAINDICATIONS Clonazepam is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions: History of sensitivity to benzodiazepines Clinical or biochemical evidence of significant liver disease Acute narrow angle glaucoma (it may be used in patients with open angle glaucoma who are receiving appropriate therapy). CONTRAINDICATIONS Clonazepam orally disintegrating tablets are contraindicated in patients with the following conditions: History of sensitivity to benzodiazepines Clinical or biochemical evidence of significant liver disease Acute narrow angle glaucoma (it may be used in patients with open angle glaucoma who are receiving appropriate therapy).
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions: Effect of Concomitant Use of Benzodiazepines and Opioids: The concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids increases the risk of respiratory depression because of actions at different receptor sites in the CNS that control respiration. Benzodiazepines interact at GABAA sites, and opioids interact primarily at mu receptors. When benzodiazepines and opioids are combined, the potential for benzodiazepines to significantly worsen opioid-related respiratory depression exists. Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids, and follow patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Effect of Clonazepam on the Pharmacokinetics of Other Drugs: Clonazepam does not appear to alter the pharmacokinetics of carbamazepine or phenobarbital. Clonazepam has the potential to influence concentrations of phenytoin. Monitoring of phenytoin concentration is recommended when clonazepam is co-administrated with phenytoin. The effect of clonazepam on the metabolism of other drugs has not been investigated. Effect of Other Drugs on the Pharmacokinetics of Clonazepam: Literature reports suggest that ranitidine, an agent that decreases stomach acidity, does not greatly alter clonazepam pharmacokinetics. In a study in which the 2 mg clonazepam orally disintegrating tablet was administered with and without propantheline (an anticholinergic agent with multiple effects on the GI tract) to healthy volunteers, the AUC of clonazepam was 10% lower and the C max of clonazepam was 20% lower when the orally disintegrating tablet was given with propantheline compared to when it was given alone. The selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors sertraline (weak CYP3A4 inducer) and fluoxetine (CYP2D6 inhibitor), and the anti-epileptic drug felbamate (CYP2C19 inhibitor and CYP3A4 inducer) do not affect the pharmacokinetics of clonazepam. Cytochrome P450 inducers, such as phenytoin, carbamazepine, lamotrigine, and phenobarbital induce clonazepam metabolism, causing an approximately 38% decrease in plasma clonazepam levels. Although clinical studies have not been performed, based on the involvement of the cytochrome P-450 3A family in clonazepam metabolism, inhibitors of this enzyme system, notably oral antifungal agents (e.g., fluconazole), should be used cautiously in patients receiving clonazepam because they may impair the metabolism of clonazepam leading to exaggerated concentrations and effects. Pharmacodynamic Interactions: The CNS-depressant action of the benzodiazepine class of drugs may be potentiated by alcohol, narcotics, barbiturates, nonbarbiturate hypnotics, antianxiety agents, the phenothiazines, thioxanthene and butyrophenone classes of antipsychotic agents, monoamine oxidase inhibitors and the tricyclic antidepressants, and by other anticonvulsant drugs. Drug Interactions: Effect of Concomitant Use of Benzodiazepine and Opioids: The concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids increases the risk of respiratory depression because of actions at different receptor sites in the CNS that control respiration. In a study in which the 2 mg clonazepam tablet was administered with and without propantheline (an anticholinergic agent with multiple effects on the GI tract) to healthy volunteers, the AUC of clonazepam was 10% lower and the C max of clonazepam was 20% lower when the tablet was given with propantheline compared to when it was given alone. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility: Carcinogenesis Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted with clonazepam. Mutagenesis The data currently available are not sufficient to determine the genotoxic potential of clonazepam. Impairment of Fertility In a two-generation fertility study in which clonazepam was given orally to rats at 10 and 100 mg/kg/day, there was a decrease in the number of pregnancies and in the number of offspring surviving until weaning. The lowest dose tested is approximately 5 and 24 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 20 mg/day for seizure disorders and 4 mg/day for panic disorder, respectively, on a body surface area (mg/m 2 ). Pregnancy: Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to AEDs, such as Clonazepam Tablets , during pregnancy. Healthcare providers are encouraged to recommend that pregnant women taking Clonazepam Tablets enroll in the NAAED Pregnancy Registry by calling 1-888-233-2334 or online at http://www.aedpregnancyregistry.org/. Risk Summary Neonates born to mothers using benzodiazepines late in pregnancy have been reported to experience symptoms of sedation and/or neonatal withdrawal (see WARNINGS: Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome , and Clinical Considerations ). Available data from published observational studies of pregnant women exposed to benzodiazepines do not report a clear association with benzodiazepines and major birth defects (see Data). Administration of clonazepam to pregnant rabbits during the period of organogenesis resulted in developmental toxicity, including increased incidences of fetal malformations, at doses similar to or below therapeutic doses in patients (see Animal Data). Data for other benzodiazepines suggest the possibility of long-term effects on neurobehavioral and immunological function in animals following prenatal exposure to benzodiazepines at clinically relevant doses. The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown. All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect, loss, or other adverse outcomes. In the U.S. general population, the estimated risk of major birth defects and of miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2% to 4% and 15% to 20%, respectively. Clinical Considerations Fetal/Neonatal Adverse Reactions Benzodiazepines cross the placenta and may produce respiratory depression, hypotonia and sedation in neonates. Monitor neonates exposed to Clonazepam Tablets during pregnancy or labor for signs of sedation, respiratory depression, hypotonia, and feeding problems. Monitor neonates exposed to Clonazepam Tablets during pregnancy for signs of withdrawal. Manage these neonates accordingly (see WARNINGS: Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome ). Data Human Data Published data from observational studies on the use of benzodiazepines during pregnancy do not report a clear association with benzodiazepines and major birth defects. Although early studies reported an increased risk of congenital malformations with diazepam and chlordiazepoxide, there was no consistent pattern noted. In addition, the majority of more recent case-control and cohort studies of benzodiazepine use during pregnancy, which were adjusted for confounding exposures to alcohol, tobacco and other medications, have not confirmed these findings. Animal Data In three studies in which clonazepam was administered orally to pregnant rabbits at doses of 0.2, 1, 5, or 10 mg/kg/day during the period of organogenesis, a similar pattern of malformations (cleft palate, open eyelid, fused sternebrae and limb defects) was observed at all doses, in a low, non-dose-related incidence. The lowest dose tested is less than the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 20 mg/day for seizure disorders and similar to the MRHD of 4 mg/day for panic disorder, on a mg/m 2 basis. Reductions in maternal weight gain occurred at doses of 5 mg/kg/day or greater and reduction in embryofetal growth occurred in one study at a dose of 10 mg/kg/day. No adverse maternal or embryofetal effects were observed in mice or rats following oral administration of clonazepam during organogenesis of doses up to 15 or 40 mg/kg/day, respectively (4 and 20 times the MRHD of 20 mg/day for seizure disorders and 20 and 100 times the MRHD of 4 mg/day for panic disorder, respectively, on a mg/m 2 basis). Data for other benzodiazepines suggest the possibility of adverse developmental effects (long-term effects on neurobehavioral and immunological function) in animals following prenatal exposure to benzodiazepines. Nursing Mothers: Risk Summary Clonazepam is excreted in human milk. There are reports of sedation, poor feeding and poor weight gain in infants exposed to benzodiazepines through breast milk. There are no data on the effects of clonazepam on milk production. The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother's clinical need for clonazepam tablets and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from the underlying maternal condition. Clinical Considerations Infants exposed to Clonazepam Tablets through breast milk should be monitored for sedation, poor feeding and poor weight gain. Pediatric Use: Because of the possibility that adverse effects on physical or mental development could become apparent only after many years, a benefit-risk consideration of the long-term use of clonazepam tablet is important in pediatric patients being treated for seizure disorder (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) . Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients with panic disorder below the age of 18 have not been established. Geriatric Use: Clinical studies of clonazepam tablets did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects. Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients. In general, dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Because clonazepam undergoes hepatic metabolism, it is possible that liver disease will impair clonazepam tablets elimination. Metabolites of clonazepam tablets are excreted by the kidneys; to avoid their excess accumulation, caution should be exercised in the administration of the drug to patients with impaired renal function. Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased hepatic and/or renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and it may be useful to assess hepatic and/or renal function at the time of dose selection. Sedating drugs may cause confusion and over-sedation in the elderly; elderly patients generally should be started on low doses of clonazepam tablets and observed closely. Benzodiazepines interact at GABA A sites, and opioids interact primarily at mu receptors. Cytochrome P-450 inducers, such as phenytoin, carbamazepine, lamotrigine, and phenobarbital induce clonazepam metabolism, causing an approximately 38% decrease in plasma clonazepam levels. Effect of Clonazepam on the Pharmacokinetics of Other Drugs: Clonazepam does not appear to alter the pharmacokinetics of phenytoin, carbamazepine or phenobarbital. Fluoxetine does not affect the pharmacokinetics of clonazepam. Cytochrome P-450 inducers, such as phenytoin, carbamazepine and phenobarbital, induce clonazepam metabolism, causing an approximately 30% decrease in plasma clonazepam levels. Although clinical studies have not been performed, based on the involvement of the cytochrome P-450 3A family in clonazepam metabolism, inhibitors of this enzyme system, notably oral antifungal agents, should be used cautiously in patients receiving clonazepam. Cytochrome P 450 inducers, such as phenytoin, carbamazepine, lamotrigine, and phenobarbital induce clonazepam metabolism, causing an approximately 38% decrease in plasma clonazepam levels. In a study in which the 2 mg clonazepam tablet was administered with and without propantheline (an anticholinergic agent with multiple effects on the GI tract) to healthy volunteers, the AUC of clonazepam was 10% lower and the Cmax of clonazepam was 20% lower when the tablet was given with propantheline compared to when it was given alone. Pregnancy: There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of clonazepam tablets in pregnant women. Available human data on the risk of teratogenicity are inconclusive. There is insufficient evidence in humans to assess the effect of benzodiazepine exposure during pregnancy on neurodevelopment. Administration of benzodiazepines immediately prior to or during childbirth can result in a syndrome of hypothermia, hypotonia, respiratory depression, and difficulty feeding. In addition, infants born to mothers who have taken benzodiazepines during the later stages of pregnancy can develop dependence, and subsequently withdrawal, during the postnatal period. In three studies in which clonazepam was administered orally to pregnant rabbits at doses of 0.2, 1, 5, or 10 mg/kg/day during the period of organogenesis, a similar pattern of malformations (cleft palate, open eyelid, fused sternebrae and limb defects) was observed at all doses, in a low, non-dose-related incidence. To provide information regarding the effects of in utero exposure to clonazepam tablets, physicians are advised to recommend that pregnant patients taking clonazepam enroll in the NAAED Pregnancy Registry. This can be done by calling the toll free number 1-888-233-2334, and must be done by patients themselves. Information on this registry can also be found at the website http://www.aedpregnancyregistry.org/. Labor and Delivery: The effect of clonazepam tablets on labor and delivery in humans has not been specifically studied; however, perinatal complications have been reported in children born to mothers who have been receiving benzodiazepines late in pregnancy, including findings suggestive of either excess benzodiazepine exposure or of withdrawal phenomena (see WARNINGS, Pregnancy Risks ) . Nursing Mothers: The effects of clonazepam tablets on the breastfed infant and on milk production are unknown.

=== LAMOTRIGINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets are indicated for: Epilepsy—adjunctive therapy in patients aged 2 years and older : partial-onset seizures. primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures. generalized seizures of Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. ( 1.1 ) Epilepsy—monotherapy in patients aged 16 years and older : Conversion to monotherapy in patients with partial-onset seizures who are receiving treatment with carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or valproate as the single antiepileptic drug. ( 1.1 ) Bipolar disorder : Maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder to delay the time to occurrence of mood episodes in patients treated for acute mood episodes with standard therapy. ( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use: Treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes is not recommended. Effectiveness of lamotrigine in the acute treatment of mood episodes has not been established. 1.1 Epilepsy Adjunctive Therapy Lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets are indicated as adjunctive therapy for the following seizure types in patients aged 2 years and older: partial-onset seizures. primary generalized tonic-clonic (PGTC) seizures. Monotherapy Lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets are indicated for conversion to monotherapy in adults (aged 16 years and older) with partial-onset seizures who are receiving treatment with carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or valproate as the single antiepileptic drug (AED). Safety and effectiveness of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets have not been established (1) as initial monotherapy; (2) for conversion to monotherapy from AEDs other than carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or valproate; or (3) for simultaneous conversion to monotherapy from 2 or more concomitant AEDs. 1.2 Bipolar Disorder Lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets are indicated for the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder to delay the time to occurrence of mood episodes (depression, mania, hypomania, mixed episodes) in patients treated for acute mood episodes with standard therapy [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Limitations of Use Treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes is not recommended. Effectiveness of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets in the acute treatment of mood episodes has not been established. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE SUBVENITE is indicated for: Epilepsy—adjunctive therapy in patients aged 2 years and older: partial-onset seizures primary generalized tonic-clonic (PGTC) seizures generalized seizures of Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. ( 1.1 ) Epilepsy—monotherapy in patients aged 16 years and older: Conversion to monotherapy in patients with partial-onset seizures who are receiving treatment with carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or valproate as the single antiepileptic drug. ( 1.1 ) Bipolar disorder: Maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder to delay the time to occurrence of mood episodes in patients treated for acute mood episodes with standard therapy. Effectiveness of SUBVENITE in the acute treatment of mood episodes has not been established. 1.1 Epilepsy Adjunctive Therapy SUBVENITE is indicated as adjunctive therapy for the following seizure types in patients aged 2 years and older: partial-onset seizures. Monotherapy SUBVENITE is indicated for conversion to monotherapy in adults (aged 16 years and older) with partial-onset seizures who are receiving treatment with carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or valproate as the single antiepileptic drug (AED). Safety and effectiveness of SUBVENITE have not been established (1) as initial monotherapy; (2) for conversion to monotherapy from AEDs other than carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or valproate; or (3) for simultaneous conversion to monotherapy from 2 or more concomitant AEDs. 1.2 Bipolar Disorder SUBVENITE is indicated for the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder to delay the time to occurrence of mood episodes (depression, mania, hypomania, mixed episodes) in patients treated for acute mood episodes with standard therapy [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lamotrigine is indicated for: Epilepsy — adjunctive therapy in patients aged 2 years and older: partial-onset seizures. ( 1.1 ) Epilepsy—monotherapy in patients aged 16 years and older Conversion to monotherapy in patients with partial-onset seizures who are receiving treatment with carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or valproate as the single antiepileptic drug. ( 1.1 ) Bipolar disorder Maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder to delay the time to occurrence of mood episodes in patients treated for acute mood episodes with standard therapy. ( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use Treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes is not recommended. 1.1 Epilepsy Adjunctive Therapy Lamotrigine is indicated as adjunctive therapy for the following seizure types in patients aged 2 years and older: partial-onset seizures. Monotherapy Lamotrigine is indicated for conversion to monotherapy in adults (aged 16 years and older) with partial-onset seizures who are receiving treatment with carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or valproate as the single antiepileptic drug (AED). Safety and effectiveness of lamotrigine have not been established (1) as initial monotherapy; (2) for conversion to monotherapy from AEDs other than carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or valproate; or (3) for simultaneous conversion to monotherapy from 2 or more concomitant AEDs. 1.2 Bipolar Disorder Lamotrigine is indicated for the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder to delay the time to occurrence of mood episodes (depression, mania, hypomania, mixed episodes) in patients treated for acute mood episodes with standard therapy [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lamotrigine is indicated for: Epilepsy - adjunctive therapy in patients aged 2 years and older: · partial-onset seizures. · primary generalized tonic-clonic (PGTC) seizures. · generalized seizures of Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. ( 1.1 ) Epilepsy - monotherapy in patients aged 16 years and older : Conversion to monotherapy in patients with partial-onset seizures who are receiving treatment with carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or valproate as the single antiepileptic drug. 1.2 Bipolar Disorder Lamotrigine is indicated for the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder to delay the time to occurrence of mood episodes (depression, mania, hypomania, mixed episodes) in patients treated for acute mood episodes with standard therapy [see Clinical Studies (14.2)] . primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures (PGTC) seizures. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lamotrigine extended-release tablets are indicated for: adjunctive therapy for primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures (PGTC) and partial-onset seizures with or without secondary generalization in patients aged 13 years and older. (1.1) conversion to monotherapy in patients aged 13 years and older with partial-onset seizures who are receiving treatment with a single antiepileptic drug (AED). (1.2) Limitation of use: Safety and effectiveness in patients younger than 13 years have not been established. (1.3) 1.1 Adjunctive Therapy Lamotrigine extended-release tablets are indicated as adjunctive therapy for primary generalized tonic-clonic (PGTC) seizures and partial-onset seizures with or without secondary generalization in patients aged 13 years and older. 1.2 Monotherapy Lamotrigine extended-release tablets are indicated for conversion to monotherapy in patients aged 13 years and older with partial-onset seizures who are receiving treatment with a single antiepileptic drug (AED). Safety and effectiveness of lamotrigine extended-release tablets have not been established (1) as initial monotherapy or (2) for simultaneous conversion to monotherapy from 2 or more concomitant AEDs. 1.3 Limitation of Use Safety and effectiveness of lamotrigine extended-release tablets for use in patients younger than 13 years have not been established. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lamotrigine tablets are indicated for: Epilepsy—adjunctive therapy in patients aged 2 years and older: • partial-onset seizures. • primary generalized tonic-clonic (PGTC) seizures. • generalized seizures of Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. Effectiveness of lamotrigine tablets in the acute treatment of mood episodes has not been established. 1.1 Epilepsy Adjunctive Therapy Lamotrigine tablets are indicated as adjunctive therapy for the following seizure types in patients aged 2 years and older: • partial-onset seizures. Monotherapy Lamotrigine tablets are indicated for conversion to monotherapy in adults (aged 16 years and older) with partial-onset seizures who are receiving treatment with carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or valproate as the single antiepileptic drug (AED). Safety and effectiveness of lamotrigine tablets have not been established (1) as initial monotherapy; (2) for conversion to monotherapy from AEDs other than carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or valproate; or (3) for simultaneous conversion to monotherapy from 2 or more concomitant AEDs. 1.2 Bipolar Disorder Lamotrigine tablets are indicated for the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder to delay the time to occurrence of mood episodes (depression, mania, hypomania, mixed episodes) in patients treated for acute mood episodes with standard therapy [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. 1. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lamotrigine is indicated for: Epilepsy—adjunctive therapy in patients aged 2 years and older: partial-onset seizures. 1.1 Epilepsy Adjunctive Therapy Lamotrigine tablets are indicated as adjunctive therapy for the following seizure types in patients aged 2 years and older: partial-onset seizures. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lamotrigine is indicated for: Epilepsy — adjunctive therapy in patients aged 2 years and older: • partial-onset seizures. 1.1 Epilepsy Adjunctive Therapy Lamotrigine is indicated as adjunctive therapy for the following seizure types in patients aged 2 years and older: • partial-onset seizures.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosing is based on concomitant medications, indication, and patient age. ( 2.1 , 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 ) To avoid an increased risk of rash, the recommended initial dose and subsequent dose escalations should not be exceeded. Lamotrigine Starter Kits and Lamotrigine Orally Disintegrating Tablets Patient Titration Kits are available for the first 5 weeks of treatment. ( 2.1 , 16 ) Do not restart lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets in patients who discontinued due to rash unless the potential benefits clearly outweigh the risks. ( 2.1 , 5.1 ) Adjustments to maintenance doses will be necessary in most patients starting or stopping estrogen-containing oral contraceptives. ( 2.1 , 5.9 ) Discontinuation: Taper over a period of at least 2 weeks (approximately 50% dose reduction per week). ( 2.1 , 5.10 ) Epilepsy : Adjunctive therapy—See Table 1 for patients older than 12 years and Tables 2 and 3 for patients aged 2 to 12 years. ( 2.2 ) Conversion to monotherapy—See Table 4. ( 2.3 ) Bipolar disorder : See Tables 5 and 6. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 General Dosing Considerations Rash There are suggestions, yet to be proven, that the risk of severe, potentially life-threatening rash may be increased by (1) coadministration of lamotrigine with valproate, (2) exceeding the recommended initial dose of lamotrigine, or (3) exceeding the recommended dose escalation for lamotrigine. However, cases have occurred in the absence of these factors [see Boxed Warning ]. Therefore, it is important that the dosing recommendations be followed closely. The risk of nonserious rash may be increased when the recommended initial dose and/or the rate of dose escalation for lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets are exceeded and in patients with a history of allergy or rash to other AEDs. Lamotrigine ODT Patient Titration Kits provide lamotrigine at doses consistent with the recommended titration schedule for the first 5 weeks of treatment, based upon concomitant medications, for patients with epilepsy (older than 12 years) and bipolar I disorder (adults) and are intended to help reduce the potential for rash. The use of lamotrigine ODT Patient Titration Kits is recommended for appropriate patients who are starting or restarting lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets [see How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16) ]. It is recommended that lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets not be restarted in patients who discontinued due to rash associated with prior treatment with lamotrigine unless the potential benefits clearly outweigh the risks. If the decision is made to restart a patient who has discontinued lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets, the need to restart with the initial dosing recommendations should be assessed. The greater the interval of time since the previous dose, the greater consideration should be given to restarting with the initial dosing recommendations. If a patient has discontinued lamotrigine for a period of more than 5 half-lives, it is recommended that initial dosing recommendations and guidelines be followed. The half-life of lamotrigine is affected by other concomitant medications [see Clinical pharmacology (12.3) ]. Lamotrigine Added to Drugs Known to Induce or Inhibit Glucuronidation Because lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets are metabolized predominantly by glucuronic acid conjugation, drugs that are known to induce or inhibit glucuronidation may affect the apparent clearance of lamotrigine. Drugs that induce glucuronidation include carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, rifampin, estrogen-containing oral contraceptives, and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir. Valproate inhibits glucuronidation. For dosing considerations for lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets in patients on estrogen-containing contraceptives and atazanavir/ritonavir, see below and Table 13. For dosing considerations for lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets in patients on other drugs known to induce or inhibit glucuronidation, see Tables 1, 2, 5 to 6, and 13. Target Plasma Levels for Patients with Epilepsy or Bipolar Disorder A therapeutic plasma concentration range has not been established for lamotrigine. Dosing of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets should be based on therapeutic response [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Women Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives Starting Lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets in Women Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: Although estrogen-containing oral contraceptives have been shown to increase the clearance of lamotrigine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ], no adjustments to the recommended dose-escalation guidelines for lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets should be necessary solely based on the use of estrogen-containing oral contraceptives. Therefore, dose escalation should follow the recommended guidelines for initiating adjunctive therapy with lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets based on the concomitant AED or other concomitant medications (see Tables 1, 5, and 7). See below for adjustments to maintenance doses of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets in women taking estrogen-containing oral contraceptives. Adjustments to the Maintenance Dose of Lamotrigine in Women Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: (1) Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives : In women not taking carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation [see Drug Interactions (7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ], the maintenance dose of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets will in most cases need to be increased by as much as 2-fold over the recommended target maintenance dose to maintain a consistent lamotrigine plasma level. (2) Starting Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: In women taking a stable dose of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets and not taking carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation [see Drug Interactions (7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ], the maintenance dose will in most cases need to be increased by as much as 2-fold to maintain a consistent lamotrigine plasma level. The dose increases should begin at the same time that the oral contraceptive is introduced and continue, based on clinical response, no more rapidly than 50 to 100 mg/day every week. Dose increases should not exceed the recommended rate (see Tables 1 and 5) unless lamotrigine plasma levels or clinical response support larger increases. Gradual transient increases in lamotrigine plasma levels may occur during the week of inactive hormonal preparation (pill-free week), and these increases will be greater if dose increases are made in the days before or during the week of inactive hormonal preparation. Increased lamotrigine plasma levels could result in additional adverse reactions, such as dizziness, ataxia, and diplopia. If adverse reactions attributable to lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets consistently occur during the pill-free week, dose adjustments to the overall maintenance dose may be necessary. Dose adjustments limited to the pill-free week are not recommended. For women taking lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets in addition to carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation [see Drug Interactions (7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ], no adjustment to the dose of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets should be necessary. (3) Stopping Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives : In women not taking carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation [see Drug Interactions (7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ], the maintenance dose of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets will in most cases need to be decreased by as much as 50% in order to maintain a consistent lamotrigine plasma level. The decrease in dose of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets should not exceed 25% of the total daily dose per week over a 2-week period, unless clinical response or lamotrigine plasma levels indicate otherwise [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. In women taking lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets in addition to carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation [see Drug Interactions (7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ], no adjustment to the dose of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets should be necessary. Women and Other Hormonal Contraceptive Preparations or Hormone Replacement Therapy The effect of other hormonal contraceptive preparations or hormone replacement therapy on the pharmacokinetics of lamotrigine has not been systematically evaluated. It has been reported that ethinylestradiol, not progestogens, increased the clearance of lamotrigine up to 2-fold, and the progestin-only pills had no effect on lamotrigine plasma levels. Therefore, adjustments to the dosage of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets in the presence of progestogens alone will likely not be needed. Patients Taking Atazanavir/Ritonavir While atazanavir/ritonavir does reduce the lamotrigine plasma concentration, no adjustments to the recommended dose-escalation guidelines for lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets should be necessary solely based on the use of atazanavir/ritonavir. Dose escalation should follow the recommended guidelines for initiating adjunctive therapy with lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets based on concomitant AED or other concomitant medications (see Tables 1, 2, and 5). In patients already taking maintenance doses of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets and not taking glucuronidation inducers, the dose of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets may need to be increased if atazanavir/ritonavir is added or decreased if atazanavir/ritonavir is discontinued [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Patients with Hepatic Impairment Experience in patients with hepatic impairment is limited. Based on a clinical pharmacology study in 24 subjects with mild, moderate, and severe liver impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ], the following general recommendations can be made. No dosage adjustment is needed in patients with mild liver impairment. Initial, escalation, and maintenance doses should generally be reduced by approximately 25% in patients with moderate and severe liver impairment without ascites and 50% in patients with severe liver impairment with ascites. Escalation and maintenance doses may be adjusted according to clinical response. Patients with Renal Impairment Initial doses of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets should be based on patients’ concomitant medications (see Tables 1 to 3 and 5); reduced maintenance doses may be effective for patients with significant renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Few patients with severe renal impairment have been evaluated during chronic treatment with lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets. Because there is inadequate experience in this population, lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets should be used with caution in these patients. Discontinuation Strategy Epilepsy : For patients receiving lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets in combination with other AEDs, a re-evaluation of all AEDs in the regimen should be considered if a change in seizure control or an appearance or worsening of adverse reactions is observed. If a decision is made to discontinue therapy with lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets, a step-wise reduction of dose over at least 2 weeks (approximately 50% per week) is recommended unless safety concerns require a more rapid withdrawal [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. Discontinuing carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation should prolong the half-life of lamotrigine; discontinuing valproate should shorten the half-life of lamotrigine. Bipolar Disorder: In the controlled clinical trials, there was no increase in the incidence, type, or severity of adverse reactions following abrupt termination of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets. In the clinical development program in adults with bipolar disorder, 2 patients experienced seizures shortly after abrupt withdrawal of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets. Discontinuation of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets should involve a step-wise reduction of dose over at least 2 weeks (approximately 50% per week) unless safety concerns require a more rapid withdrawal [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. 2.2 Epilepsy - Adjunctive Therapy This section provides specific dosing recommendations for patients older than 12 years and patients aged 2 to 12 years. Within each of these age-groups, specific dosing recommendations are provided depending upon the concomitant AEDs or other concomitant medications (see Table 1 for patients older than 12 years and Table 2 for patients aged 2 to 12 years). A weight-based dosing guide for patients aged 2 to 12 years on concomitant valproate is provided in Table 3. Patients Older than 12 Years Recommended dosing guidelines are summarized in Table 1. Table 1. Escalation Regimen for Lamotrigine Orally Disintegrating Tablets in Patients Older than 12 Years with Epilepsy In Patients TAKING Valproate a In Patients NOT TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, Primidone, b or Valproate a In Patients TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b and NOT TAKING Valproate a Weeks 1 and 2 25 mg every other day 25 mg every day 50 mg/day Weeks 3 and 4 25 mg every day 50 mg/day 100 mg/day (in 2 divided doses) Week 5 onward to maintenance Increase by 25 to 50 mg/day every 1 to 2 weeks. Increase by 50 mg/day every 1 to 2 weeks. Increase by 100 mg/day every 1 to 2 weeks. Usual maintenance dose 100 to 200 mg/day with valproate alone 100 to 400 mg/day with valproate and other drugs that induce glucuronidation (in 1 or 2 divided doses) 225 to 375 mg/day (in 2 divided doses) 300 to 500 mg/day (in 2 divided doses) a Valproate has been shown to inhibit glucuronidation and decrease the apparent clearance of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions (7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. b Drugs that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation and increase clearance, other than the specified antiepileptic drugs, include estrogen-containing oral contraceptives, rifampin, and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir. Dosing recommendations for oral contraceptives and the protease inhibitor atazanavir/ritonavir can be found in General Dosing Considerations [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)]. Patients on rifampin and the protease inhibitor lopinavir/ritonavir should follow the same dosing titration/maintenance regimen used with antiepileptic drugs that induce glucuronidation and increase clearance [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) , Drug Interactions (7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Patients Aged 2 to 12 Years Recommended dosing guidelines are summarized in Table 2. Lower starting doses and slower dose escalations than those used in clinical trials are recommended because of the suggestion that the risk of rash may be decreased by lower starting doses and slower dose escalations. Therefore, maintenance doses will take longer to reach in clinical practice than in clinical trials. It may take several weeks to months to achieve an individualized maintenance dose. Maintenance doses in patients weighing <30 kg, regardless of age or concomitant AED, may need to be increased as much as 50%, based on clinical response. Table 2. Escalation Regimen for Lamotrigine Orally Disintegrating Tablets in Patients Aged 2 to 12 Years with Epilepsy In Patients TAKING Valproate a In Patients NOT TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, Primidone, b or Valproate a In Patients TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b and NOT TAKING Valproate a Weeks 1 and 2 0.15 mg/kg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet (see Table 3 for weight-based dosing guide) 0.3 mg/kg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet 0.6 mg/kg/day in 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet Weeks 3 and 4 0.3 mg/kg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet (see Table 3 for weight-based dosing guide) 0.6 mg/kg/day in 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet 1.2 mg/kg/day in 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet Week 5 onward to maintenance The dose should be increased every 1 to 2 weeks as follows: calculate 0.3 mg/kg/day, round this amount down to the nearest whole tablet, and add this amount to the previously administered daily dose. The dose should be increased every 1 to 2 weeks as follows: calculate 0.6 mg/kg/day, round this amount down to the nearest whole tablet, and add this amount to the previously administered daily dose. The dose should be increased every 1 to 2 weeks as follows: calculate 1.2 mg/kg/day, round this amount down to the nearest whole tablet, and add this amount to the previously administered daily dose. Usual maintenance dose 1 to 5 mg/kg/day (maximum 200 mg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses) 1 to 3 mg/kg/day with valproate alone 4.5 to 7.5 mg/kg/day (maximum 300 mg/day in 2 divided doses) 5 to 15 mg/kg/day (maximum 400 mg/day in 2 divided doses) Maintenance dose in patients <30 kg May need to be increased by as much as 50%, based on clinical response. May need to be increased by as much as 50%, based on clinical response. Note: Only whole tablets should be used for dosing. a Valproate has been shown to inhibit glucuronidation and decrease the apparent clearance of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions (7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Dosing recommendations for oral contraceptives and the protease inhibitor atazanavir/ritonavir can be found in General Dosing Considerations [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ]. Table 3. The Initial Weight-Based Dosing Guide for Patients Aged 2 to 12 Years Taking Valproate (Weeks 1 to 4) with Epilepsy If the patient’s weight is Give this daily dose, using the most appropriate combination of lamotrigine 2- and 5-mg tablets Greater than And less than Weeks 1 and 2 Weeks 3 and 4 6.7 kg 14 kg 2 mg every other day 2 mg every day 14.1 kg 27 kg 2 mg every day 4 mg every day 27.1 kg 34 kg 4 mg every day 8 mg every day 34.1 kg 40 kg 5 mg every day 10 mg every day Usual Adjunctive Maintenance Dose for Epilepsy The usual maintenance doses identified in Tables 1 and 2 are derived from dosing regimens employed in the placebo-controlled adjunctive trials in which the efficacy of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablet was established. In patients receiving multidrug regimens employing carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, or primidone without valproate , maintenance doses of adjunctive lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets as high as 700 mg/day have been used. In patients receiving valproate alone , maintenance doses of adjunctive lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets as high as 200 mg/day have been used. The advantage of using doses above those recommended in Tables 1 to 4 has not been established in controlled trials. 2.3 Epilepsy - Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy to Monotherapy The goal of the transition regimen is to attempt to maintain seizure control while mitigating the risk of serious rash associated with the rapid titration of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets. The recommended maintenance dose of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets as monotherapy is 500 mg/day given in 2 divided doses. To avoid an increased risk of rash, the recommended initial dose and subsequent dose escalations for lamotrigine should not be exceeded [see Boxed Warning ]. Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy with Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone to Monotherapy with Lamotrigine Orally Disintegrating Tablets After achieving a dose of 500 mg/day of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets using the guidelines in Table 1, the concomitant enzyme-inducing AED should be withdrawn by 20% decrements each week over a 4-week period. The regimen for the withdrawal of the concomitant AED is based on experience gained in the controlled monotherapy clinical trial. Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy with Valproate to Monotherapy with Lamotrigine Orally Disintegrating Tablets The conversion regimen involves the 4 steps outlined in Table 4. Table 4. Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy with Valproate to Monotherapy with Lamotrigine Orally Disintegrating Tablets in Patients Aged 16 Years and Older with Epilepsy Lamotrigine Orally Disintegrating Tablets Valproate Step 1 Achieve a dose of 200 mg/day according to guidelines in Table 1. Maintain established stable dose. Step 2 Maintain at 200 mg/day. Decrease dose by decrements no greater than 500 mg/day/week to 500 mg/day and then maintain for 1 week. Step 3 Increase to 300 mg/day and maintain for 1 week. Simultaneously decrease to 250 mg/day and maintain for 1 week. Step 4 Increase by 100 mg/day every week to achieve maintenance dose of 500 mg/day. Discontinue. Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy with Antiepileptic Drugs other than Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, Primidone, or Valproate to Monotherapy with Lamotrigine Orally Disintegrating Tablets No specific dosing guidelines can be provided for conversion to monotherapy with lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets with AEDs other than carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or valproate. 2.4 Bipolar Disorder The goal of maintenance treatment with lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablet is to delay the time to occurrence of mood episodes (depression, mania, hypomania, mixed episodes) in patients treated for acute mood episodes with standard therapy [see Indications and Usage (1.2) ] . Patients taking lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets for more than 16 weeks should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment. Adults The target dose of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablet is 200 mg/day (100 mg/day in patients taking valproate, which decreases the apparent clearance of lamotrigine, and 400 mg/day in patients not taking valproate and taking either carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitor lopinavir/ritonavir that increase the apparent clearance of lamotrigine). In the clinical trials, doses up to 400 mg/day as monotherapy were evaluated; however, no additional benefit was seen at 400 mg/day compared with 200 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Accordingly, doses above 200 mg/day are not recommended. Treatment with lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets are introduced, based on concurrent medications, according to the regimen outlined in Table 5. If other psychotropic medications are withdrawn following stabilization, the dose of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets should be adjusted. In patients discontinuing valproate, the dose of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets should be doubled over a 2-week period in equal weekly increments (see Table 6). In patients discontinuing carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation, the dose of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets should remain constant for the first week and then should be decreased by half over a 2-week period in equal weekly decrements (see Table 6). The dose of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets may then be further adjusted to the target dose (200 mg) as clinically indicated. If other drugs are subsequently introduced, the dose of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets may need to be adjusted. In particular, the introduction of valproate requires reduction in the dose of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets [see Drug Interactions (7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. To avoid an increased risk of rash, the recommended initial dose and subsequent dose escalations of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets should not be exceeded [see Boxed Warning ]. Table 5. Escalation Regimen for Lamotrigine Orally Disintegrating Tablets in Adults with Bipolar Disorder In Patients TAKING Valproate a In Patients NOT TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, Primidone, b or Valproate a In Patients TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b and NOT TAKING Valproate a Weeks 1 and 2 25 mg every other day 25 mg daily 50 mg daily Weeks 3 and 4 25 mg daily 50 mg daily 100 mg daily, in divided doses Week 5 50 mg daily 100 mg daily 200 mg daily, in divided doses Week 6 100 mg daily 200 mg daily 300 mg daily, in divided doses Week 7 100 mg daily 200 mg daily up to 400 mg daily, in divided doses a Valproate has been shown to inhibit glucuronidation and decrease the apparent clearance of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions (7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Dosing recommendations for oral contraceptives and the protease inhibitor atazanavir/ritonavir can be found in General Dosing Considerations [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . Table 6. Dosage Adjustments to Lamotrigine Orally Disintegrating Tablets in Adults with Bipolar Disorder following Discontinuation of Psychotropic Medications Discontinuation of Psychotropic Drugs (excluding Valproate, a Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b ) After Discontinuation of Valproate a After Discontinuation of Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b Current Dose of Lamotrigine Orally Disintegrating Tablets (mg/day) 100 Current Dose of Lamotrigine Orally Disintegrating Tablets(mg/day) 400 Week 1 Maintain current dose of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets 150 400 Week 2 Maintain current dose of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets 200 300 Week 3 onward Maintain current dose of lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets 200 200 a Valproate has been shown to inhibit glucuronidation and decrease the apparent clearance of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions (7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.6 Administration of Lamotrigine Orally Disintegrating Tablets Lamotrigine orally disintegrating tablets should be placed onto the tongue and moved around in the mouth. The tablet will disintegrate rapidly, can be swallowed with or without water, and can be taken with or without food. ( 2.1 , 16 ) Do not restart SUBVENITE in patients who discontinued due to rash unless the potential benefits clearly outweigh the risks. ( 2.1 , 5.1 ) Adjustments to maintenance doses will be necessary in most patients starting or stopping estrogen-containing products, including oral contraceptives. ( 2.1 , 5.10 ) Epilepsy: Adjunctive therapy—See Table 1 for patients older than 12 years and Tables 2 and 3 for patients aged 2 to 12 years. ( 2.2 ) Conversion to monotherapy—See Table 4 . ( 2.3 ) Bipolar disorder: See Tables 5 and 6 . ( 2.4 ) 2.1 General Dosing Considerations Rash There are suggestions that the risk of severe, potentially life-threatening rash may be increased by (1) coadministration of lamotrigine with valproate, (2) exceeding the recommended initial dose of lamotrigine, or (3) exceeding the recommended dose escalation for lamotrigine. However, cases have occurred in the absence of these factors [see Boxed Warning ] . Therefore, it is important that the SUBVENITE dosing recommendations be followed closely. The risk of nonserious rash may be increased when the recommended initial dose and/or the rate of dose escalation for SUBVENITE is exceeded and in patients with a history of allergy or rash to other AEDs. It is recommended that SUBVENITE not be restarted in patients who discontinued due to rash associated with prior treatment with lamotrigine unless the potential benefits clearly outweigh the risks. If the decision is made to restart a patient who has discontinued lamotrigine, the need to restart with the initial dosing recommendations should be assessed. The half-life of lamotrigine is affected by other concomitant medications [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. SUBVENITE Added to Drugs Known to Induce or Inhibit Glucuronidation Because lamotrigine is metabolized predominantly by glucuronic acid conjugation, drugs that are known to induce or inhibit glucuronidation may affect the apparent clearance of lamotrigine. Drugs that induce glucuronidation include carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, rifampin, estrogen-containing products, including oral contraceptives, and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir. For dosing considerations for SUBVENITE in patients on estrogen-containing products, including contraceptives, and atazanavir/ritonavir, see below and Table 13 . For dosing considerations for SUBVENITE in patients on other drugs known to induce or inhibit glucuronidation, see Tables 1 , 2 , 5 to 6 , and 13 . Dosing of SUBVENITE should be based on therapeutic response [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Women Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives Starting SUBVENITE in Women Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: Although estrogen-containing oral contraceptives have been shown to increase the clearance of lamotrigine, no adjustments to the recommended dose-escalation guidelines for SUBVENITE should be necessary solely based on the use of estrogen-containing oral contraceptives [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Therefore, dose escalation should follow the recommended guidelines for initiating adjunctive therapy with SUBVENITE based on the concomitant AED or other concomitant medications (see Tables 1 , 5 , and 7 ). See below for adjustments to maintenance doses of SUBVENITE in women taking estrogen-containing oral contraceptives. Adjustments to the Maintenance Dose of SUBVENITE in Women Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: (1) Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: In women not taking carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation , the maintenance dose of SUBVENITE will in most cases need to be increased by as much as 2-fold over the recommended target maintenance dose to maintain a consistent lamotrigine plasma level [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . (2) Starting Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: In women taking a stable dose of SUBVENITE and not taking carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation , the maintenance dose will in most cases need to be increased by as much as 2-fold to maintain a consistent lamotrigine plasma level [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Dose increases should not exceed the recommended rate (see Tables 1 and 5 ) unless lamotrigine plasma levels or clinical response support larger increases. If adverse reactions attributable to SUBVENITE consistently occur during the pill-free week, dose adjustments to the overall maintenance dose may be necessary. For women taking SUBVENITE in addition to carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation, no adjustment to the dose of SUBVENITE should be necessary [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . (3) Stopping Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: In women not taking carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation , the maintenance dose of SUBVENITE will in most cases need to be decreased by as much as 50% in order to maintain a consistent lamotrigine plasma level [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . The decrease in dose of SUBVENITE should not exceed 25% of the total daily dose per week over a 2-week period, unless clinical response or lamotrigine plasma levels indicate otherwise [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . In women taking SUBVENITE in addition to carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation , no adjustment to the dose of SUBVENITE should be necessary [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Women and Other Hormonal Contraceptive Preparations or Hormone Replacement Therapy The effect of other hormonal contraceptive preparations or hormone replacement therapy (HRT) on the pharmacokinetics of lamotrigine has not been systematically evaluated. Other estrogen‑containing therapies, such as HRT, may interfere with lamotrigine. Therefore, close clinical monitoring on effectiveness of SUBVENITE with dose adjustment may be necessary [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )]. Therefore, adjustments to the dosage of SUBVENITE in the presence of progestogens alone will likely not be needed. Patients Taking Atazanavir/Ritonavir While atazanavir/ritonavir does reduce the lamotrigine plasma concentration, no adjustments to the recommended dose-escalation guidelines for SUBVENITE should be necessary solely based on the use of atazanavir/ritonavir. Dose escalation should follow the recommended guidelines for initiating adjunctive therapy with SUBVENITE based on concomitant AED or other concomitant medications (see Tables 1, 2, and 5). In patients already taking maintenance doses of SUBVENITE and not taking glucuronidation inducers, the dose of SUBVENITE may need to be increased if atazanavir/ritonavir is added, or decreased if atazanavir/ritonavir is discontinued [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Based on a clinical pharmacology study in 24 subjects with mild, moderate, and severe liver impairment, the following general recommendations can be made [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Patients with Renal Impairment Initial doses of SUBVENITE should be based on patients' concomitant medications (see Tables 1 to 3 , and 5 ); reduced maintenance doses may be effective for patients with significant renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Few patients with severe renal impairment have been evaluated during chronic treatment with lamotrigine. Because there is inadequate experience in this population, SUBVENITE should be used with caution in these patients. Discontinuation Strategy Epilepsy: For patients receiving SUBVENITE in combination with other AEDs, a re-evaluation of all AEDs in the regimen should be considered if a change in seizure control or an appearance or worsening of adverse reactions is observed. If a decision is made to discontinue therapy with SUBVENITE, a step-wise reduction of dose over at least 2 weeks (approximately 50% per week) is recommended unless safety concerns require a more rapid withdrawal [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )]. Bipolar Disorder: In the controlled clinical trials, there was no increase in the incidence, type, or severity of adverse reactions following abrupt termination of lamotrigine. In the clinical development program in adults with bipolar disorder, 2 patients experienced seizures shortly after abrupt withdrawal of lamotrigine. Discontinuation of SUBVENITE should involve a step-wise reduction of dose over at least 2 weeks (approximately 50% per week) unless safety concerns require a more rapid withdrawal [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . 2.2 Epilepsy—Adjunctive Therapy This section provides specific dosing recommendations for patients older than 12 years and patients aged 2 to 12 years. Within each of these age-groups, specific dosing recommendations are provided depending upon concomitant AEDs or other concomitant medications (see Table 1 for patients older than 12 years and Table 2 for patients aged 2 to 12 years). Patients Older than 12 Years Recommended dosing guidelines are summarized in Table 1 . Escalation Regimen for SUBVENITE in Patients Older than 12 Years with Epilepsy In Patients TAKING Valproate a In Patients NOT TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, Primidone b , or Valproate a In Patients TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b and NOT TAKING Valproate a a Valproate has been shown to inhibit glucuronidation and decrease the apparent clearance of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . b Drugs that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation and increase clearance, other than the specified AEDs, include estrogen-containing oral contraceptives, rifampin, and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir. Dosing recommendations for estrogen-containing products, including oral contraceptives, and the protease inhibitor atazanavir/ritonavir can be found in General Dosing Considerations [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )] . Patients on rifampin and the protease inhibitor lopinavir/ritonavir should follow the same dosing titration/maintenance regimen used with antiepileptic drugs that induce glucuronidation and increase clearance [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Weeks 1 and 2 25 mg every other day 25 mg every day 50 mg/day Weeks 3 and 4 25 mg every day 50 mg/day 100 mg/day (in 2 divided doses) Week 5 onward to maintenance Increase by 25 to 50 mg/day every 1 to 2 weeks. Usual maintenance dose 100 to 200 mg/day with valproate alone 100 to 400 mg/day with valproate and other drugs that induce glucuronidation (in 1 or 2 divided doses) 225 to 375 mg/day (in 2 divided doses) 300 to 500 mg/day (in 2 divided doses) Patients Aged 2 to 12 Years Recommended dosing guidelines are summarized in Table 2 . Escalation Regimen for SUBVENITE in Patients Aged 2 to 12 Years with Epilepsy In Patients TAKING Valproate a In Patients NOT TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, Primidone b , or Valproate a In Patients TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b and NOT TAKING Valproate a a Valproate has been shown to inhibit glucuronidation and decrease the apparent clearance of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Dosing recommendations for estrogen-containing products, including oral contraceptives, and the protease inhibitor atazanavir/ritonavir, can be found in General Dosing Considerations [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )] . Patients on rifampin and the protease inhibitor lopinavir/ritonavir should follow the same dosing titration/maintenance regimen used with AEDs that induce glucuronidation and increase clearance [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Weeks 1 and 2 0.15 mg/kg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses 0.3 mg/kg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses 0.6 mg/kg/day in 2 divided doses Weeks 3 and 4 0.3 mg/kg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses 0.6 mg/kg/day in 2 divided doses 1.2 mg/kg/day in 2 divided doses Week 5 onward to maintenance The dose should be increased every 1 to 2 weeks as follows: calculate 0.3 mg/kg/day, add this amount to the previously administered daily dose. The dose should be increased every 1 to 2 weeks as follows: calculate 0.6 mg/kg/day, add this amount to the previously administered daily dose. The dose should be increased every 1 to 2 weeks as follows: calculate 1.2 mg/kg/day, add this amount to the previously administered daily dose. Usual Adjunctive Maintenance Dose for Epilepsy The usual maintenance doses identified in Tables 1 and 2 are derived from dosing regimens employed in the placebo-controlled adjunctive trials in which the efficacy of lamotrigine was established. In patients receiving multidrug regimens employing carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, or primidone without valproate , maintenance doses of adjunctive lamotrigine as high as 700 mg/day have been used. In patients receiving valproate alone , maintenance doses of adjunctive lamotrigine as high as 200 mg/day have been used. The advantage of using doses above those recommended in Tables 1 to 3 has not been established in controlled trials. 2.3 Epilepsy-Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy to Monotherapy The goal of the transition regimen is to attempt to maintain seizure control while mitigating the risk of serious rash associated with the rapid titration of lamotrigine. The recommended maintenance dose of SUBVENITE as monotherapy is 500 mg/day given in 2 divided doses. To avoid an increased risk of rash, the recommended initial dose and subsequent dose escalations for SUBVENITE should not be exceeded [see Boxed Warning ] . Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy with Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone to Monotherapy with SUBVENITE After achieving a dose of 500 mg/day of SUBVENITE using the guidelines in Table 1, the concomitant enzyme-inducing AED should be withdrawn by 20% decrements each week over a 4-week period. Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy with Valproate to Monotherapy with SUBVENITE The conversion regimen involves the 4 steps outlined in Table 3 . Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy with Valproate to Monotherapy with SUBVENITE in Patients Aged 16 Years and Older with Epilepsy SUBVENITE Valproate Step 1 Achieve a dose of 200 mg/day according to guidelines in Table 1. Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy with Antiepileptic Drugs other than Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, Primidone, or Valproate to Monotherapy with SUBVENITE No specific dosing guidelines can be provided for conversion to monotherapy with SUBVENITE with AEDs other than carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or valproate. 2.4 Bipolar Disorder The goal of maintenance treatment with SUBVENITE is to delay the time to occurrence of mood episodes (depression, mania, hypomania, mixed episodes) in patients treated for acute mood episodes with standard therapy [see Indications and Usage ( 1.2 )] . Patients taking lamotrigine for more than 16 weeks should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment. Adults The target dose of SUBVENITE is 200 mg/day (100 mg/day in patients taking valproate, which decreases the apparent clearance of lamotrigine, and 400 mg/day in patients not taking valproate and taking either carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitor lopinavir/ritonavir that increase the apparent clearance of lamotrigine). In the clinical trials, doses up to 400 mg/day as monotherapy were evaluated; however, no additional benefit was seen at 400 mg/day compared with 200 mg/day [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . Treatment with SUBVENITE is introduced, based on concurrent medications, according to the regimen outlined in Table 4 . If other psychotropic medications are withdrawn following stabilization, the dose of SUBVENITE should be adjusted. In patients discontinuing valproate, the dose of SUBVENITE should be doubled over a 2-week period in equal weekly increments (see Table 5 ). In patients discontinuing carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation, the dose of SUBVENITE should remain constant for the first week and then should be decreased by half over a 2-week period in equal weekly decrements (see Table 5 ). The dose of SUBVENITE may then be further adjusted to the target dose (200 mg) as clinically indicated. If other drugs are subsequently introduced, the dose of SUBVENITE may need to be adjusted. In particular, the introduction of valproate requires reduction in the dose of SUBVENITE [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. To avoid an increased risk of rash, the recommended initial dose and subsequent dose escalations of SUBVENITE should not be exceeded [see Boxed Warning ] . Escalation Regimen for SUBVENITE in Adults with Bipolar Disorder a Valproate has been shown to inhibit glucuronidation and decrease the apparent clearance of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. b Drugs that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation and increase clearance, other than the specified AEDs, include estrogen-containing products, including oral contraceptives, rifampin, and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir. Dosing recommendations for oral contraceptives and the protease inhibitor atazanavir/ritonavir can be found in General Dosing Considerations [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )] . Patients on rifampin and the protease inhibitor lopinavir/ritonavir should follow the same dosing titration/maintenance regimen used with AEDs that induce glucuronidation and increase clearance [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. In Patients TAKING Valproate a In Patients NOT TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, Primidone b , or Valproate a In Patients TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b and NOT TAKING Valproate a Weeks 1 and 2 25 mg every other day 25 mg daily 50 mg daily Weeks 3 and 4 25 mg daily 50 mg daily 100 mg daily, in divided doses Week 5 50 mg daily 100 mg daily 200 mg daily, in divided doses Week 6 100 mg daily 200 mg daily 300 mg daily, in divided doses Week 7 100 mg daily 200 mg daily up to 400 mg daily, in divided doses Table 5. Dosage Adjustments to lamotrigine in Adults with Bipolar Disorder Following Discontinuation of Psychotropic Medications a Valproate has been shown to inhibit glucuronidation and decrease the apparent clearance of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Discontinuation of Psychotropic Drugs (excluding Valproate a , Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b ) After Discontinuation of Valproate a After Discontinuation of Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b Current Dose of SUBVENITE 100 mg/day Current Dose of SUBVENITE 400 mg/day Week 1 Maintain current dose of SUBVENITE 150 mg/day 400 mg/day Week 2 Maintain current dose of SUBVENITE 200 mg/day 300 mg/day Week 3 onward Maintain current dose of SUBVENITE 200 mg/day 200 mg/day 2.5 Administration Instructions SUBVENITE can be administered with or without food. Use a calibrated measuring device, such as an oral dosing syringe or oral dosing cup, to measure and deliver the prescribed dose accurately. A household teaspoon or tablespoon is not an adequate measuring device. Shake well before each use. Discard any unused portion 90 days after first opening. Do not restart lamotrigine in patients who discontinued due to rash unless the potential benefits clearly outweigh the risks. ( 2.1 , 5.10 ) Epilepsy Adjunctive therapy—See Table 1 for patients older than 12 years and Tables 2 and 3 for patients aged 2 to 12 years. ( 2.3 ) Bipolar disorder: See Tables 5 and 6. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 General Dosing Considerations Rash There are suggestions, that the risk of severe, potentially life-threatening rash may be increased by (1) coadministration of lamotrigine with valproate, (2) exceeding the recommended initial dose of lamotrigine, or (3) exceeding the recommended dose escalation for lamotrigine. The risk of nonserious rash may be increased when the recommended initial dose and/or the rate of dose escalation for lamotrigine is exceeded and in patients with a history of allergy or rash to other AEDs. It is recommended that lamotrigine not be restarted in patients who discontinued due to rash associated with prior treatment with lamotrigine unless the potential benefits clearly outweigh the risks. The half-life of lamotrigine is affected by other concomitant medications [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Lamotrigine Added to Drugs Known to Induce or Inhibit Glucuronidation Because lamotrigine is metabolized predominantly by glucuronic acid conjugation, drugs that are known to induce or inhibit glucuronidation may affect the apparent clearance of lamotrigine. For dosing considerations for lamotrigine in patients on estrogen-containing products, including contraceptives and atazanavir/ritonavir, see below and Table 13. For dosing considerations for lamotrigine in patients on other drugs known to induce or inhibit glucuronidation, see Tables 1, 2, 5-6, and 13. Dosing of lamotrigine should be based on therapeutic response [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Women Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives Starting Lamotrigine in Women Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives Although estrogen-containing oral contraceptives have been shown to increase the clearance of lamotrigine, no adjustments to the recommended dose-escalation guidelines for lamotrigine should be necessary solely based on the use of estrogen-containing oral contraceptives [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Therefore, dose escalation should follow the recommended guidelines for initiating adjunctive therapy with lamotrigine based on the concomitant AED or other concomitant medications (see Tables 1, 5 and 7). See below for adjustments to maintenance doses of lamotrigine in women taking estrogen-containing oral contraceptives. Adjustments to the Maintenance Dose of Lamotrigine in Women Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives (1) Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives In women not taking carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation, the maintenance dose of lamotrigine will in most cases need to be increased by as much as 2-fold over the recommended target maintenance dose to maintain a consistent lamotrigine plasma level [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . (2) Starting Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives In women taking a stable dose of lamotrigine and not taking carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation, the maintenance dose will in most cases need to be increased by as much as 2-fold to maintain a consistent lamotrigine plasma level [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . If adverse reactions attributable to lamotrigine consistently occur during the pill-free week, dose adjustments to the overall maintenance dose may be necessary. For women taking lamotrigine in addition to carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation, no adjustment to the dose of lamotrigine should be necessary [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . (3) Stopping Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives In women not taking carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation, the maintenance dose of lamotrigine will in most cases need to be decreased by as much as 50% in order to maintain a consistent lamotrigine plasma level [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . The decrease in dose of lamotrigine should not exceed 25% of the total daily dose per week over a 2-week period, unless clinical response or lamotrigine plasma levels indicate otherwise [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . In women taking lamotrigine in addition to carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation, no adjustment to the dose of lamotrigine should be necessary [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Other estrogen-containing therapies, such as HRT, may interfere with lamotrigine. Therefore, close clinical monitoring on effectiveness of lamotrigine with dose adjustment may be necessary [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] . Therefore, adjustments to the dosage of lamotrigine in the presence of progestogens alone will likely not be needed. Patients Taking Atazanavir/Ritonavir While atazanavir/ritonavir does reduce the lamotrigine plasma concentration, no adjustments to the recommended dose-escalation guidelines for lamotrigine should be necessary solely based on the use of atazanavir/ritonavir. Dose escalation should follow the recommended guidelines for initiating adjunctive therapy with lamotrigine based on concomitant AED or other concomitant medications (see Tables 1, 2, and 5). In patients already taking maintenance doses of lamotrigine and not taking glucuronidation inducers, the dose of lamotrigine may need to be increased if atazanavir/ritonavir is added or decreased if atazanavir/ritonavir is discontinued [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Patients with Renal Impairment Initial doses of lamotrigine should be based on patients' concomitant medications (see Tables 1-3 and 5); reduced maintenance doses may be effective for patients with significant renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Because there is inadequate experience in this population, lamotrigine should be used with caution in these patients. Discontinuation Strategy Epilepsy For patients receiving lamotrigine in combination with other AEDs, a re-evaluation of all AEDs in the regimen should be considered if a change in seizure control or an appearance or worsening of adverse reactions is observed. If a decision is made to discontinue therapy with lamotrigine, a step-wise reduction of dose over at least 2 weeks (approximately 50% per week) is recommended unless safety concerns require a more rapid withdrawal [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . Bipolar Disorder In the controlled clinical trials, there was no increase in the incidence, type, or severity of adverse reactions following abrupt termination of lamotrigine. Discontinuation of lamotrigine should involve a step-wise reduction of dose over at least 2 weeks (approximately 50% per week) unless safety concerns require a more rapid withdrawal [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . 2.2 Epilepsy – Adjunctive Therapy This section provides specific dosing recommendations for patients older than 12 years and patients aged 2 to 12 years. Table 1 Escalation Regimen for Lamotrigine in Patients Older than 12 Years with Epilepsy a Valproate has been shown to inhibit glucuronidation and decrease the apparent clearance of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Dosing recommendations for estrogen-containing products, including oral contraceptives and the protease inhibitor atazanavir/ritonavir can be found in General Dosing Considerations [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )] . In Patients TAKING Valproate a In Patients NOT TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, Primidone b , or Valproate a In Patients TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b and NOT TAKING Valproate a Weeks 1 and 2 25 mg every other day 25 mg every day 50 mg/day Weeks 3 and 4 25 mg every day 50 mg/day 100 mg/day (in 2 divided doses) Week 5 onward to maintenance Increase by 25 to 50 mg/day every 1 to 2 weeks. Usual maintenance dose 100 to 200 mg/day with valproate alone 100 to 400 mg/day with valproate and other drugs that induce glucuronidation (in 1 or 2 divided doses) 225 to 375 mg/day (in 2 divided doses) 300 to 500 mg/day (in 2 divided doses) Patients Aged 2 to 12 Years Recommended dosing guidelines are summarized in Table 2. Maintenance doses in patients weighing < 30 kg, regardless of age or concomitant AED, may need to be increased as much as 50%, based on clinical response. Table 2 Escalation Regimen for Lamotrigine in Patients Aged 2 to 12 Years with Epilepsy Note: Only whole tablets should be used for dosing. a Valproate has been shown to inhibit glucuronidation and decrease the apparent clearance of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . In Patients TAKING Valproate a In Patients NOT TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, Primidone b , or Valproate a In Patients TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b and NOT TAKING Valproate a Weeks 1 and 2 0.15 mg/kg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet (see Table 3 for weight based dosing guide) 0.3 mg/kg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet 0.6 mg/kg/day in 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet Weeks 3 and 4 0.3 mg/kg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet (see Table 3 for weight based dosing guide) 0.6 mg/kg/day in 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet 1.2 mg/kg/day in 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet Week 5 onward to maintenance The dose should be increased every 1 to 2 weeks as follows: calculate 0.3 mg/kg/day, round this amount down to the nearest whole tablet, and add this amount to the previously administered daily dose. Usual maintenance dose 1 to 5 mg/kg/day (maximum 200 mg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses) 1 to 3 mg/kg/day with valproate alone 4.5 to 7.5 mg/kg/day (maximum 300 mg/day in 2 divided doses) 5 to 15 mg/kg/day (maximum 400 mg/day in 2 divided doses) Maintenance dose in patients < 30 kg May need to be increased by as much as 50%, based on clinical response. Table 3 The Initial Weight-Based Dosing Guide for Patients Aged 2 to 12 Years Taking Valproate (Weeks 1 to 4) with Epilepsy If the patient's weight is Give this daily dose, using the most appropriate combination of Lamotrigine 5 mg tablets Greater than And less than Weeks 1 and 2 Weeks 3 and 4 34.1 kg 40 kg 5 mg every day 10 mg every day Usual Adjunctive Maintenance Dose for Epilepsy The usual maintenance doses identified in Tables 1 and 2 are derived from dosing regimens employed in the placebo-controlled adjunctive trials in which the efficacy of lamotrigine was established. 2.3 Epilepsy – Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy to Monotherapy The goal of the transition regimen is to attempt to maintain seizure control while mitigating the risk of serious rash associated with the rapid titration of lamotrigine. The recommended maintenance dose of lamotrigine as monotherapy is 500 mg/day given in 2 divided doses. To avoid an increased risk of rash, the recommended initial dose and subsequent dose escalations for lamotrigine should not be exceeded [see Boxed Warning] . Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy with Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone to Monotherapy with Lamotrigine After achieving a dose of 500 mg/day of lamotrigine using the guidelines in Table 1, the concomitant enzyme-inducing AED should be withdrawn by 20% decrements each week over a 4-week period. Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy with Valproate to Monotherapy with Lamotrigine The conversion regimen involves the 4 steps outlined in Table 4. Table 4 Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy with Valproate to Monotherapy with Lamotrigine in Patients Aged 16 Years and Older with Epilepsy Lamotrigine Valproate Step 1 Achieve a dose of 200 mg/day according to guidelines in Table 1. Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy with Antiepileptic Drugs other than Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, Primidone, or Valproate to Monotherapy with Lamotrigine No specific dosing guidelines can be provided for conversion to monotherapy with lamotrigine with AEDs other than carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or valproate. 2.4 Bipolar Disorder The goal of maintenance treatment with lamotrigine is to delay the time to occurrence of mood episodes (depression, mania, hypomania, mixed episodes) in patients treated for acute mood episodes with standard therapy [see Indications and Usage ( 1.2 )] . Adults The target dose of lamotrigine is 200 mg/day (100 mg/day in patients taking valproate, which decreases the apparent clearance of lamotrigine, and 400 mg/day in patients not taking valproate and taking either carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitor lopinavir/ritonavir that increase the apparent clearance of lamotrigine). In the clinical trials, doses up to 400 mg/day as monotherapy were evaluated; however, no additional benefit was seen at 400 mg/day compared with 200 mg/day [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. Treatment with lamotrigine is introduced, based on concurrent medications, according to the regimen outlined in Table 5. If other psychotropic medications are withdrawn following stabilization, the dose of lamotrigine should be adjusted. In patients discontinuing valproate, the dose of lamotrigine should be doubled over a 2-week period in equal weekly increments (see Table 6). In patients discontinuing carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation, the dose of lamotrigine should remain constant for the first week and then should be decreased by half over a 2-week period in equal weekly decrements (see Table 6). The dose of lamotrigine may then be further adjusted to the target dose (200 mg) as clinically indicated. If other drugs are subsequently introduced, the dose of lamotrigine may need to be adjusted. In particular, the introduction of valproate requires reduction in the dose of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. To avoid an increased risk of rash, the recommended initial dose and subsequent dose escalations of lamotrigine should not be exceeded [see Boxed Warning]. Table 5 Escalation Regimen for Lamotrigine in Adults with Bipolar Disorder a Valproate has been shown to inhibit glucuronidation and decrease the apparent clearance of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. In Patients TAKING Valproate a In Patients NOT TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, Primidone b , or Valproate a In Patients TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b and NOT TAKING Valproate a Weeks 1and 2 25 mg every other day 25 mg daily 50 mg daily Weeks 3 and 4 25 mg daily 50 mg daily 100 mg daily, in divided doses Week 5 50 mg daily 100 mg daily 200 mg daily, in divided doses Week 6 100 mg daily 200 mg daily 300 mg daily, in divided doses Week 7 100 mg daily 200 mg daily Up to 400 mg daily, in divided doses Table 6 Dosage Adjustments to Lamotrigine in Adults with Bipolar Disorder following Discontinuation of Psychotropic Medications a Valproate has been shown to inhibit glucuronidation and decrease the apparent clearance of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Discontinuation of Psychotropic Drugs (excluding Valproate a , Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital or Primidone b ) After Discontinuation of Valproate a After Discontinuation of Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b Current Dose of Lamotrigine (mg/day) 100 Current Dose of Lamotrigine (mg/day) 400 Week 1 Maintain current dose of Lamotrigine 150 400 Week 2 Maintain current dose of Lamotrigine 200 300 Week 3 onward Maintain current dose of Lamotrigine 200 200 2.5 Administration of Lamotrigine Tablets for Oral Suspension Lamotrigine Tablets for oral suspension may be swallowed whole, chewed, or dispersed in water or diluted fruit juice. If the tablets are chewed, consume a small amount of water or diluted fruit juice to aid in swallowing. To disperse Lamotrigine Tablets for oral suspension, add the tablets to a small amount of liquid (1 teaspoon, or enough to cover the medication). Approximately 1 minute later, when the tablets are completely dispersed, swirl the solution and consume the entire quantity immediately. No attempt should be made to administer partial quantities of the dispersed tablets. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION · Dosing is based on concomitant medications, indication, and patient age. ( 2.1 , 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 ) · To avoid an increased risk of rash, the recommended initial dose and subsequent dose escalations should not be exceeded. ( 2.1 ) · Do not restart lamotrigine in patients who discontinued due to rash unless the potential benefits clearly outweigh the risks. ( 2.1 , 5.1 ) · Adjustments to maintenance doses will be necessary in most patients starting or stopping estrogen-containing products, including oral contraceptives. ( 2.1 , 5.9 ) · Discontinuation: Taper over a period of at least 2 weeks (approximately 50% dose reduction per week). ( 2.1 , 5.10 ) Epilepsy: · Adjunctive therapy - See Table 1 for patients older than 12 years and Tables 2 and 3 for patients aged 2 to 12 years. ( 2.2 ) · Conversion to monotherapy - See Table 4. However, cases have occurred in the absence of these factors [see Boxed Warning] . It is recommended that lamotrigine not be restarted in patients who discontinued due to rash associated with prior treatment with lamotrigine, unless the potential benefits clearly outweigh the risks. The half-life of lamotrigine is affected by other concomitant medications [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. For dosing considerations for lamotrigine in patients on estrogen-containing products, including contraceptives, and atazanavir/ritonavir, see below and Table 13. For dosing considerations for lamotrigine in patients on other drugs known to induce or inhibit glucuronidation, see Tables 1, 2, 5 to 6, and 13. Dosing of lamotrigine should be based on therapeutic response [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Women Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives Starting L amotrigine in Women Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: Although estrogen-containing oral contraceptives have been shown to increase the clearance of lamotrigine, no adjustments to the recommended dose-escalation guidelines for lamotrigine should be necessary solely based on the use of estrogen-containing oral contraceptives [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Therefore, dose escalation should follow the recommended guidelines for initiating adjunctive therapy with lamotrigine based on the concomitant AED or other concomitant medications (see Tables 1, 5, and 7). Adjustments to the Maintenance Dose of Lamotrigine in Women Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: (1) Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: In women not taking carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation, the maintenance dose of lamotrigine will in most cases need to be increased, by as much as 2-fold over the recommended target maintenance dose to maintain a consistent lamotrigine plasma level [see Drug Interactions (7), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . (2) Starting Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: In women taking a stable dose of lamotrigine and not taking carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation, the maintenance dose will in most cases need to be increased by as much as 2-fold, to maintain a consistent lamotrigine plasma level [see Drug Interactions (7), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . For women taking lamotrigine in addition to carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation, no adjustment to the dose of lamotrigine should be necessary [see Drug Interactions (7), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . (3) Stopping Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: In women not taking carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation, the maintenance dose of lamotrigine will in most cases need to be decreased by as much as 50%, in order to maintain a consistent lamotrigine plasma level [see Drug Interactions (7), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . The decrease in dose of lamotrigine should not exceed 25% of the total daily dose per week over a 2-week period, unless clinical response or lamotrigine plasma levels indicate otherwise [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . In women taking lamotrigine in addition to carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation, no adjustment to the dose of lamotrigine should be necessary [see Drug Interactions (7), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Women and Other Hormonal Contraceptive Preparations or Hormone Replac ement Therapy The effect of other hormonal contraceptive preparations or hormone replacement therapy (HRT) on the pharmacokinetics of lamotrigine has not been systematically evaluated. Therefore, close clinical monitoring on effectiveness of lamotrigine with dose adjustment may be necessary [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Therefore, adjustments to the dosage of lamotrigine in the presence of progestogens alone will likely not be n eeded. In patients already taking maintenance doses of lamotrigine and not taking glucuronidation inducers, the dose of lamotrigine may need to be increased if atazanavir/ritonavir is added or decreased if atazanavir/ritonavir is discontinued [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Based on a clinical pharmacology study in 24 subjects with mild, moderate, and severe liver impairment, the following general recommendations can be made [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Patients with Renal Impairment Initial doses of lamotrigine should be based on patients’ concomitant medications (see Tables 1 to 3, and 5); reduced maintenance doses may be effective for patients with significant renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Discontinuation Strategy Epilepsy: For patients receiving lamotrigine in combination with other AEDs, a reevaluation of all AEDs in the regimen should be considered if a change in seizure control or an appearance or worsening of adverse reactions is observed. If a decision is made to discontinue therapy with lamotrigine, a step-wise reduction of dose over at least 2 weeks (approximately 50% per week) is recommended unless safety concerns require a more rapid withdrawal [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. Discontinuation of lamotrigine should involve a step-wise reduction of dose over at least 2 weeks (approximately 50% per week) unless safety concerns require a more rapid withdrawal [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] . Within each of these age-groups, specific dosing recommendations are provided depending upon concomitant AED or other concomitant medications (see Table 1 for patients older than 12 years and Table 2 for patients aged 2 to 12 years). Escalation Regimen for Lamotrigine in Patients Older than 12 Years with Epilepsy In Patients TAKING Valproate a In Patients NOT TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, Primidone b , or Valproate a In Patients TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b and NOT TAKING Valproate a Weeks 1 and 2 25 mg every other day 25 mg every day 50 mg/day Weeks 3 and 4 25 mg every day 50 mg/day 100 mg/day (in 2 divided doses) Week 5 onwards to maintenance Increase by 25 to 50 mg/day every 1 to 2 weeks. Usual Maintenance Dose 100 to 200 mg/day with valproate alone 100 to 400 mg/day with valproate and other drugs that induce glucuronidation ( in 1 or 2 divided doses) 225 to 375 mg/day (in 2 divided doses) 300 to 500 mg/day (in 2 divided doses) a Valproate has been shown to inhibit glucuronidation and decrease the apparent clearance of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions (7), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Dosing recommendations for estrogen-containing products, including oral contraceptives, and the protease inhibitor atazanavir/ritonavir can be found in General Dosing Considerations [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)] . Patients on rifampin and the protease inhibitor lopinavir/ritonavir should follow the same dosing titration/maintenance regimen used with AEDs that induce glucuronidation and increase clearance [see Dosage and Administration (2.1), Drug Interactions (7), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . The smallest available strength of lamotrigine is 2 mg, and only whole tablets should be administered. If the calculated dose cannot be achieved using whole tablets, the dose should be rounded down to the nearest whole tablet [see How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16) and Medication Guide] . Escalation Regimen for Lamotrigine in Patients Aged 2 to 12 Years with Epilepsy In Patients TAKING Valproate a In Patients NOT TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, Primidone b , Valproate a In Patients TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b and NOT TAKING Valproate a Weeks 1 and 2 0.15 mg/kg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet (see Table 3 for weight based dosing guide) 0.3 mg/kg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet 0.6 mg/kg/day in 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet Weeks 3 and 4 0.3 mg/kg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet (see Table 3 for weight based dosing guide) 0.6 mg/kg/day in 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet 1.2 mg/kg/day in 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet Week 5 onwards to maintenance The dose should be increased every 1 to 2 weeks as follows: calculate 0.3 mg/kg/day, round this amount down to the nearest whole tablet, and add this amount to the previously administered daily dose. Usual Maintenance Dose 1 to 5 mg/kg/day (maximum 200 mg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses). 1 to 3 mg/kg/day with valproate alone 4.5 to 7.5 mg/kg/day (maximum 300 mg/day in 2 divided doses) 5 to 15 mg/kg/day (maximum 400 mg/day in 2 divided doses) Maintenance dose in patients <30 kg May need to be increased by as much as 50%, based on clinical response. a Valproate has been shown to inhibit glucuronidation and decrease the apparent clearance of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions (7), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Dosing recommendations for estrogen-containing products, including oral contraceptives, and the protease inhibitor atazanavir/ritonavir, can be found in General Dosing Considerations [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)] . The Initial Weight-Based Dosing Guide for Patients Aged 2 to 12 Years Taking Valproate (Weeks 1 to 4) with Epilepsy If the patient’s weight is Give this daily dose, using the most appropriate combination of lamotrigine 2 and 5-mg tablets Greater than And less than Weeks 1 and 2 Weeks 3 and 4 6.7 kg 14 kg 2 mg every other day 2 mg every day 14.1 kg 27 kg 2 mg every day 4 mg every day 27.1 kg 34 kg 4 mg every day 8 mg every day 34.1 kg 40 kg 5 mg every day 10 mg every day Usual Adjunctive Maintenance Dose for Epilepsy The usual maintenance doses identified in Tables 1 and 2 are derived from dosing regimens employed in the placebo-controlled adjunctive trials in which the efficacy of lamotriginewas established. In patients receiving multidrug regimens employing carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, or primidone without valproate, maintenance doses of adjunctive lamotrigineas high as 700 mg/day have been used. In patients receiving valproate alone, maintenance doses of adjunctive lamotrigineas high as 200 mg/day have been used. 2.3 Epilepsy - Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy to Monotherapy The goal of the transition regimen is to attempt to maintain seizure control while mitigating the risk of serious rash associated with the rapid titration of lamotrigine. Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy with Valproate to Monotherapy with Lamotrigine in Patients Aged 16 Years and Older with Epilepsy Lamotrigine Valproate Step 1 Achieve a dose of 200 mg/day according to guidelines in Table 1. 2.4 Bipolar Disorder The goal of maintenance treatment with lamotrigine is to delay the time to occurrence of mood episodes (depression, mania, hypomania, mixed episodes) in patients treated for acute mood episodes with standard therapy [see Indications and Usage (1.2)] . In the clinical trials, doses up to 400 mg/day as monotherapy were evaluated; however, no additional benefit was seen at 400 mg/day compared with 200 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.2)] . In particular, the introduction of valproate requires reduction in the dose of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions (7), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . To avoid an increased risk of rash, the recommended initial dose and subsequent dose escalations of lamotrigine should not be exceeded [see Boxed Warning] . Escalation Regimen for Lamotrigine in Adults with Bipolar Disorder In Patients TAKING Valproate a In Patients NOT TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, Primidone b , or Valproate a In Patients TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b and NOT TAKING Valproate a Weeks 1 and 2 25 mg every other day 25 mg daily 50 mg daily Weeks 3 and 4 25 mg daily 50 mg daily 100 mg daily, in divided doses Week 5 50 mg daily 100 mg daily 200 mg daily, in divided doses Week 6 100 mg daily 200 mg daily 300 mg daily, in divided doses Week 7 100 mg daily 200 mg daily up to 400 mg daily, in divided doses a Valproate has been shown to inhibit glucuronidation and decrease the apparent clearance of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions (7), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Dosing recommendations for oral contraceptives and the protease inhibitor atazanavir/ritonavir can be found in General Dosing Considerations [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)] . Dosage Adjustments to Lamotrigine in Adults with Bipolar Disorder Following Discontinuation of Psychotropic Medications Discontinuation of Psychotropic Drugs (excluding Valproate, a Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b ) After Discontinuation of Valproate a After Discontinuation of Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b Current Dose of Lamotrigine (mg/day) 100 Current Dose of Lamotrigine (mg/day) 400 Week 1 Maintain current dose of lamotrigine 150 400 Week 2 Maintain current dose of lamotrigine 200 300 Week 3 onward Maintain current dose of lamotrigine 200 200 a Valproate has been shown to inhibit glucuronidation and decrease the apparent clearance of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions (7), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Patients on rifampin and the protease inhibitor lopinavir/ritonavir should follow the same dosing titration/maintenance regimen used with AEDs, that induce glucuronidation and increase clearance [see Dosage and Administration (2.1), Drug Interactions (7), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 2.5 Administration of Lamotrigine Lamotrigine may be swallowed whole, chewed, or dispersed in water or diluted fruit juice. To disperse lamotrigine, add the tablets to a small amount of liquid (1 teaspoon, or enough to cover the medication). For dosing considerations for lamotrigine in patients on estrogen-containing contraceptives and atazanavir/ritonavir, see below and Table 13. Women Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives Starting Lamotrigine in Women Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives Although estrogen-containing oral contraceptives have been shown to increase the clearance of lamotrigine [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , no adjustments to the recommended dose-escalation guidelines for lamotrigine should be necessary solely based on the use of estrogen-containing oral contraceptives. Adjustments to the Maintenance Dose of Lamotrigine in Women Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives (1) Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives In women not taking carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , the maintenance dose of lamotrigine will in most cases need to be increased by as much as 2-fold over the recommended target maintenance dose to maintain a consistent lamotrigine plasma level. (2) Starting Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives In women taking a stable dose of lamotrigine and not taking carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , the maintenance dose will in most cases need to be increased by as much as 2-fold to maintain a consistent lamotrigine plasma level. Dose increases should not exceed the recommended rate (see Table 1 and 5) unless lamotrigine plasma levels or clinical response support larger increases. For women taking lamotrigine in addition to carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , no adjustment to the dose of lamotrigine should be necessary. (3) Stopping Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives In women not taking carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , the maintenance dose of lamotrigine will in most cases need to be decreased by as much as 50% in order to maintain a consistent lamotrigine plasma level. In women taking lamotrigine in addition to carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , no adjustment to the dose of lamotrigine should be necessary. Based on a clinical pharmacology study in 24 subjects with mild, moderate, and severe liver impairment [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , the following general recommendations can be made. Patients with Renal Impairment Initial doses of lamotrigine should be based on patients' concomitant medications (see Tables 1-3 and 5); reduced maintenance doses may be effective for patients with significant renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Patients on rifampin and the protease inhibitor lopinavir/ritonavir should follow the same dosing titration/maintenance regimen used with antiepileptic drugs that induce glucuronidation and increase clearance [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 2 Escalation Regimen for Lamotrigine in Patients Aged 2 to 12 Years with Epilepsy Note: Only whole tablets should be used for dosing a Valproate has been shown to inhibit glucuronidation and decrease the apparent clearance of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . In Patients TAKING Valproate a In Patients NOT TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b , or Valproate a In Patients TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b and NOT TAKING Valproate a Weeks 1 and 2 0.15 mg/kg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet (see Table 3 for weight based dosing guide) 0.3 mg/kg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet 0.6 mg/kg/day in 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet Weeks 3 and 4 0.3 mg/kg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet (see Table 3 for weight based dosing guide) 0.6 mg/kg/day in 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet 1.2 mg/kg/day in 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet Week 5 onward to maintenance The dose should be increased every 1 to 2 weeks as follows: calculate 0.3 mg/kg/day, round this amount down to the nearest whole tablet, and add this amount to the previously administered daily dose. 2.3 Epilepsy – Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy to Monotherapy The goal of the transition regimen is attempt to maintain seizure control while mitigating the risk of serious rash associated with the rapid titration of lamotrigine. Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy with AEDs other than Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, Primidone, or Valproate to Monotherapy with Lamotrigine No specific dosing guidelines can be provided for conversion to monotherapy with lamotrigine with AEDs other than carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or valproate. Adults The target dose of lamotrigine is 200 mg/day (100 mg/day in patients taking valproate, which decreases the apparent clearance of lamotrigine, and 400 mg/day in patients not taking valproate and taking either carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitor lopinavir/ritonavir that that increase the apparent clearance of lamotrigine). In patients discontinuing carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitor lopinavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation, the dose of lamotrigine should remain constant for the first week and then should be decreased by half over a 2-week period in equal weekly decrements (see Table 6). Discontinuation of Psychotropic Drugs (excluding Valproate a , Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital or Primidone b ) After Discontinuation of Valproate a After Discontinuation of Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b Current Dose of Lamotrigine (mg/day) 100 Current Dose of Lamotrigine (mg/day) 400 Week 1 Maintain current dose of Lamotrigine 150 400 Week 2 Maintain current dose of Lamotrigine 200 300 Week 3 onward Maintain current dose of Lamotrigine 200 200 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Lamotrigine extended-release tablets are taken once daily, with or without food. Tablets must be swallowed whole and must not be chewed, crushed, or divided. Do not exceed the recommended initial dosage and subsequent dose escalation. (2.1) Initiation of adjunctive therapy and conversion to monotherapy requires slow titration dependent on concomitant AEDs; the prescriber must refer to the appropriate algorithm in Dosage and Administration. (2.2, 2.3) Adjunctive therapy: Target therapeutic dosage range is 200 to 600 mg daily and is dependent on concomitant AEDs. (2.2) Conversion to monotherapy: Target therapeutic dosage range is 250 to 300 mg daily. (2.3) Conversion from immediate-release lamotrigine to lamotrigine extended-release tablets: The initial dose of lamotrigine extended-release tablets should match the total daily dose of the immediate-release lamotrigine. Patients should be closely monitored for seizure control after conversion. (2.4) Do not restart lamotrigine extended-release tablets in patients who discontinued due to rash unless the potential benefits clearly outweigh the risks. (2.1, 5.1) Adjustments to maintenance doses will be necessary in most patients starting or stopping estrogen-containing products, including oral contraceptives. ( 2.1 , 5.10 ) 2.1 General Dosing Considerations Rash There are suggestions that the risk of severe, potentially life-threatening rash may be increased by (1) co-administration of lamotrigine extended-release tablets with valproate, (2) exceeding the recommended initial dose of lamotrigine extended-release tablets, or (3) exceeding the recommended dose escalation for lamotrigine extended-release tablets. The risk of nonserious rash may be increased when the recommended initial dose and/or the rate of dose escalation for lamotrigine extended-release tablets are exceeded and in patients with a history of allergy or rash to other AEDs. It is recommended that lamotrigine extended-release tablets not be restarted in patients who discontinued due to rash associated with prior treatment with lamotrigine unless the potential benefits clearly outweigh the risks. If the decision is made to restart a patient who has discontinued lamotrigine extended-release tablets, the need to restart with the initial dosing recommendations should be assessed. The half-life of lamotrigine is affected by other concomitant medications [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Lamotrigine Extended-Release Tablets Added to Drugs Known to Induce or Inhibit Glucuronidation Because lamotrigine is metabolized predominantly by glucuronic acid conjugation, drugs that are known to induce or inhibit glucuronidation may affect the apparent clearance of lamotrigine. For dosing considerations for lamotrigine extended-release tablets in patients on estrogen-containing products including contraceptives and atazanavir/ritonavir, see below and Table 5. For dosing considerations for lamotrigine extended-release tablets in patients on other drugs known to induce or inhibit glucuronidation, see Table 1 and Table 5. Target Plasma Levels A therapeutic plasma concentration range has not been established for lamotrigine. Dosing of lamotrigine extended-release tablets should be based on therapeutic response [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Women Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives Starting Lamotrigine Extended-Release Tablets in Women Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: Although estrogen-containing oral contraceptives have been shown to increase the clearance of lamotrigine, no adjustments to the recommended dose-escalation guidelines for lamotrigine extended-release tablets should be necessary solely based on the use of estrogen-containing oral contraceptives [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Therefore, dose escalation should follow the recommended guidelines for initiating adjunctive therapy with lamotrigine extended-release tablets based on the concomitant AED or other concomitant medications (see Table 1). See below for adjustments to maintenance doses of lamotrigine extended-release tablets in women taking estrogen-containing oral contraceptives. Adjustments to the Maintenance Dose of Lamotrigine Extended-Release Tablets in Women Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: In women not taking carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation, the maintenance dose of lamotrigine extended-release tablets will in most cases need to be increased by as much as 2-fold over the recommended target maintenance dose to maintain a consistent lamotrigine plasma level [see Drug Interactions (7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Starting Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: In women taking a stable dose of lamotrigine extended-release tablets and not taking carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation, the maintenance dose will in most cases need to be increased by as much as 2-fold to maintain a consistent lamotrigine plasma level [see Drug Interactions (7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Dose increases should not exceed the recommended rate (see Table 1) unless lamotrigine plasma levels or clinical response support larger increases. Increased lamotrigine plasma levels could result in additional adverse reactions, such as dizziness, ataxia and diplopia. If adverse reactions attributable to lamotrigine extended-release tablets consistently occur during the pill-free week, dose adjustments to the overall maintenance dose may be necessary. For women taking lamotrigine extended-release tablets in addition to carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation, no adjustment to the dose of lamotrigine extended-release tablets should be necessary [see Drug Interactions (7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Stopping Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: In women not taking carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation, the maintenance dose of lamotrigine extended-release tablets will in most cases need to be decreased by as much as 50% in order to maintain a consistent lamotrigine plasma level [see Drug Interactions (7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The decrease in dose of lamotrigine extended-release tablets should not exceed 25% of the total daily dose per week over a 2-week period, unless clinical response or lamotrigine plasma levels indicate otherwise [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . In women taking lamotrigine extended-release tablets in addition to carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation, no adjustment to the dose of lamotrigine extended-release tablets should be necessary [see Drug Interactions (7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Therefore, close clinical monitoring on effectiveness of lamotrigine extended-release tablets with dose adjustment may be necessary [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . Therefore, adjustments to the dosage of lamotrigine extended-release tablets in the presence of progestogens alone will likely not be needed. Patients Taking Atazanavir/Ritonavir While atazanavir/ritonavir does reduce the lamotrigine plasma concentration, no adjustments to the recommended dose-escalation guidelines for lamotrigine extended-release tablets should be necessary solely based on the use of atazanavir/ritonavir. Dose escalation should follow the recommended guidelines for initiating adjunctive therapy with lamotrigine extended-release tablets based on concomitant AED or other concomitant medications (see Tables 1 and 5). In patients already taking maintenance doses of lamotrigine extended-release tablets and not taking glucuronidation inducers, the dose of lamotrigine extended-release tablets may need to be increased if atazanavir/ritonavir is added or decreased if atazanavir/ritonavir is discontinued [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Based on a clinical pharmacology study in 24 subjects with mild, moderate and severe liver impairment, the following general recommendations can be made [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Initial, escalation and maintenance doses should generally be reduced by approximately 25% in patients with moderate and severe liver impairment without ascites and 50% in patients with severe liver impairment with ascites. Patients with Renal Impairment Initial doses of lamotrigine extended-release tablets should be based on patients’ concomitant medications (see Table 1); reduced maintenance doses may be effective for patients with significant renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Few patients with severe renal impairment have been evaluated during chronic treatment with immediate-release lamotrigine. Because there is inadequate experience in this population, lamotrigine extended-release tablets should be used with caution in these patients. Discontinuation Strategy For patients receiving lamotrigine extended-release tablets in combination with other AEDs, a re-evaluation of all AEDs in the regimen should be considered if a change in seizure control or an appearance or worsening of adverse reactions is observed. If a decision is made to discontinue therapy with lamotrigine extended-release tablets, a step-wise reduction of dose over at least 2 weeks (approximately 50% per week) is recommended unless safety concerns require a more rapid withdrawal [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] . 2.2 Adjunctive Therapy for Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic and Partial-Onset Seizures This section provides specific dosing recommendations for patients aged 13 years and older. Specific dosing recommendations are provided depending upon concomitant AEDs or other concomitant medications. Escalation Regimen for Lamotrigine Extended-Release Tablets in Patients Aged 13 Years and Older In Patients TAKING Valproate a In Patients NOT TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, Primidone b , or Valproate a In Patients TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b and NOT TAKING Valproate a Weeks 1 and 2 25 mg every other day 25 mg every day 50 mg every day Weeks 3 and 4 25 mg every day 50 mg every day 100 mg every day Week 5 50 mg every day 100 mg every day 200 mg every day Week 6 100 mg every day 150 mg every day 300 mg every day Week 7 150 mg every day 200 mg every day 400 mg every day Maintenance range (Week 8 and onward) 200 to 250 mg every day c 300 to 400 mg every day c 400 to 600 mg every day c a Valproate has been shown to inhibit glucuronidation and decrease the apparent clearance of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions (7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Dosing recommendations for estrogen-containing products, including oral contraceptives, and the protease inhibitor atazanavir/ritonavir can be found in General Dosing Considerations [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . Patients on rifampin and the protease inhibitor lopinavir/ritonavir should follow the same dosing titration/maintenance regimen used with AEDs that induce glucuronidation and increase clearance [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) , Drug Interactions (7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . c Dose increases at Week 8 or later should not exceed 100 mg daily at weekly intervals. 2.3 Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy to Monotherapy The goal of the transition regimen is to attempt to maintain seizure control while mitigating the risk of serious rash associated with the rapid titration of lamotrigine extended-release tablets. To avoid an increased risk of rash, the recommended maintenance dosage range of lamotrigine extended-release tablets as monotherapy is 250 to 300 mg given once daily. The recommended initial dose and subsequent dose escalations for lamotrigine extended-release tablets should not be exceeded [see Boxed Warning ] . Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy with Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone to Monotherapy with Lamotrigine Extended-Release Tablets After achieving a dose of 500 mg/day of lamotrigine extended-release tablets using the guidelines in Table 1, the concomitant enzyme-inducing AED should be withdrawn by 20% decrements each week over a 4-week period. Two weeks after completion of withdrawal of the enzyme-inducing AED, the dosage of lamotrigine extended-release tablets may be decreased no faster than 100 mg/day each week to achieve the monotherapy maintenance dosage range of 250 to 300 mg/day. The regimen for the withdrawal of the concomitant AED is based on experience gained in the controlled monotherapy clinical trial using immediate-release lamotrigine. Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy with Valproate to Monotherapy with Lamotrigine Extended-Release Tablets The conversion regimen involves the 4 steps outlined in Table 2. Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy with Valproate to Monotherapy with Lamotrigine Extended-Release Tablets in Patients Aged 13 Years and Older with Epilepsy Lamotrigine Extended-Release Tablets Valproate Step 1 Achieve a dose of 150 mg/day according to guidelines in Table 1. Step 2 Maintain at 150 mg/day. Step 3 Increase to 200 mg/day. Step 4 Increase to 250 or 300 mg/day. Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy with Antiepileptic Drugs other than Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, Primidone, or Valproate to Monotherapy with Lamotrigine Extended-Release Tablets After achieving a dosage of 250 to 300 mg/day of lamotrigine extended-release tablets using the guidelines in Table 1, the concomitant AED should be withdrawn by 20% decrements each week over a 4-week period. No adjustment to the monotherapy dose of lamotrigine extended-release tablets is needed. 2.4 Conversion from Immediate-Release Lamotrigine Tablets to Lamotrigine Extended-Release Tablets Patients may be converted directly from immediate-release lamotrigine to lamotrigine extended-release tablets. The initial dose of lamotrigine extended-release tablets should match the total daily dose of immediate-release lamotrigine. However, some subjects on concomitant enzyme-inducing agents may have lower plasma levels of lamotrigine on conversion and should be monitored [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Following conversion to lamotrigine extended-release tablets, all patients (but especially those on drugs that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation) should be closely monitored for seizure control [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Depending on the therapeutic response after conversion, the total daily dose may need to be adjusted within the recommended dosing instructions (see Table 1). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Dosing is based on concomitant medications, indication, and patient age. ( 2.1 , 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 ) • To avoid an increased risk of rash, the recommended initial dose and subsequent dose escalations should not be exceeded. ( 2.1 ) • Do not restart lamotrigine tablets in patients who discontinued due to rash unless the potential benefits clearly outweigh the risks. ( 2.1 , 5.1 ) • Adjustments to maintenance doses will be necessary in most patients starting or stopping estrogen-containing products, including oral contraceptives. ( 2.1 , 5.9 ) • Discontinuation: Taper over a period of at least 2 weeks (approximately 50% dose reduction per week). ( 2.1 , 5.10 ) Epilepsy : • Adjunctive therapy—See Table 1 for patients older than 12 years and Tables 2 and 3 for patients aged 2 to 12 years. ( 2.2 ) • Conversion to monotherapy—See Table 4. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 General Dosing Considerations Rash There are suggestions, yet to be proven, that the risk of severe, potentially life-threatening rash may be increased by (1) coadministration of lamotrigine tablets with valproate, (2) exceeding the recommended initial dose of lamotrigine tablets, or (3) exceeding the recommended dose escalation for lamotrigine tablets. However, cases have occurred in the absence of these factors [ see Boxed Warning ] . The risk of nonserious rash may be increased when the recommended initial dose and/or the rate of dose escalation for lamotrigine tablets is exceeded and in patients with a history of allergy or rash to other AEDs. It is recommended that lamotrigine tablets not be restarted in patients who discontinued due to rash associated with prior treatment with lamotrigine unless the potential benefits clearly outweigh the risks. If the decision is made to restart a patient who has discontinued lamotrigine tablets, the need to restart with the initial dosing recommendations should be assessed. Lamotrigine Tablets Added to Drugs Known to Induce or Inhibit Glucuronidation Because lamotrigine is metabolized predominantly by glucuronic acid conjugation, drugs that are known to induce or inhibit glucuronidation may affect the apparent clearance of lamotrigine. For dosing considerations for lamotrigine tablets in patients on estrogen-containing products, including contraceptives, and atazanavir/ritonavir, see below and Table 13. For dosing considerations for lamotrigine tablets in patients on other drugs known to induce or inhibit glucuronidation, see Tables 1, 2, 5-6, and 13. Dosing of lamotrigine tablets should be based on therapeutic response [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Women Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives Starting Lamotrigine Tablets in Women Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: Although estrogen-containing oral contraceptives have been shown to increase the clearance of lamotrigine [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , no adjustments to the recommended dose-escalation guidelines for lamotrigine tablets should be necessary solely based on the use of estrogen-containing oral contraceptives. Therefore, dose escalation should follow the recommended guidelines for initiating adjunctive therapy with lamotrigine tablets based on the concomitant AED or other concomitant medications (see Tables 1, 5, and 7). See below for adjustments to maintenance doses of lamotrigine tablets in women taking estrogen-containing oral contraceptives. Adjustments to the Maintenance Dose of Lamotrigine Tablets in Women Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: (1) Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: In women not taking carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , the maintenance dose of lamotrigine tablets will in most cases need to be increased by as much as 2-fold over the recommended target maintenance dose to maintain a consistent lamotrigine plasma level. (2) Starting Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: In women taking a stable dose of lamotrigine tablets and not taking carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , the maintenance dose will in most cases need to be increased by as much as 2-fold to maintain a consistent lamotrigine plasma level. If adverse reactions attributable to lamotrigine tablets consistently occur during the pill-free week, dose adjustments to the overall maintenance dose may be necessary. For women taking lamotrigine tablets in addition to carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation, no adjustment to the dose of lamotrigine tablets should be necessary [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . (3) Stopping Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: In women not taking carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , the maintenance dose of lamotrigine tablets will in most cases need to be decreased by as much as 50% in order to maintain a consistent lamotrigine plasma level. The decrease in dose of lamotrigine tablets should not exceed 25% of the total daily dose per week over a 2-week period, unless clinical response or lamotrigine plasma levels indicate otherwise [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . In women taking lamotrigine tablets in addition to carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , no adjustment to the dose of lamotrigine tablets should be necessary. Therefore, close clinical monitoring on effectiveness of lamotrigine tablets with dose adjustment may be necessary [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 ) ]. Therefore, adjustments to the dosage of lamotrigine tablets in the presence of progestogens alone will likely not be needed. Patients Taking Atazanavir/Ritonavir While atazanavir/ritonavir does reduce the lamotrigine plasma concentration, no adjustments to the recommended dose-escalation guidelines for lamotrigine tablets should be necessary solely based on the use of atazanavir/ritonavir. Dose escalation should follow the recommended guidelines for initiating adjunctive therapy with lamotrigine tablets based on concomitant AED or other concomitant medications (see Tables 1, 2, and 5). In patients already taking maintenance doses of lamotrigine tablets and not taking glucuronidation inducers, the dose of lamotrigine tablets may need to be increased if atazanavir/ritonavir is added or decreased if atazanavir/ritonavir is discontinued [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Patients with Renal Impairment Initial doses of lamotrigine tablets should be based on patients' concomitant medications (see Tables 1-3 and 5); reduced maintenance doses may be effective for patients with significant renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Few patients with severe renal impairment have been evaluated during chronic treatment with lamotrigine tablets. Because there is inadequate experience in this population, lamotrigine tablets should be used with caution in these patients. Discontinuation Strategy Epilepsy: For patients receiving lamotrigine tablets in combination with other AEDs, a re-evaluation of all AEDs in the regimen should be considered if a change in seizure control or an appearance or worsening of adverse reactions is observed. If a decision is made to discontinue therapy with lamotrigine tablets, a step-wise reduction of dose over at least 2 weeks (approximately 50% per week) is recommended unless safety concerns require a more rapid withdrawal [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . Bipolar Disorder: In the controlled clinical trials, there was no increase in the incidence, type, or severity of adverse reactions following abrupt termination of lamotrigine tablets. In the clinical development program in adults with bipolar disorder, 2 patients experienced seizures shortly after abrupt withdrawal of lamotrigine tablets. Discontinuation of lamotrigine tablets should involve a step-wise reduction of dose over at least 2 weeks (approximately 50% per week) unless safety concerns require a more rapid withdrawal [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . Escalation Regimen for Lamotrigine Tablets in Patients Older than 12 Years with Epilepsy In Patients TAKING Valproate a In Patients NOT TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, Primidone b , or Valproate a In Patients TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b and NOT TAKING Valproate a Weeks 1 and 2 25 mg every other day 25 mg every day 50 mg/day Weeks 3 and 4 25 mg every day 50 mg/day 100 mg/day (in 2 divided doses) Week 5 onward to maintenance Increase by 25 to 50 mg/day every 1 to 2 weeks Increase by 50 mg/day every 1 to 2 weeks Increase by 100 mg/day every 1 to 2 weeks. Usual maintenance dose 100 to 200 mg/day with valproate alone 100 to 400 mg/day with valproate and other drugs that induce glucuronidation (in 1 or 2 divided doses) 225 to 375 mg/day (in 2 divided doses) 300 to 500 mg/day (in 2 divided doses) a Valproate has been shown to inhibit glucuronidation and decrease the apparent clearance of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Escalation Regimen for Lamotrigine Tablets in Patients Aged 2 to 12 Years with Epilepsy In Patients TAKING Valproate a In Patients NOT TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, Primidone b , or Valproate a In Patients TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b and NOT TAKING Valproate a Weeks 1 and 2 0.15 mg/kg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet (see Table 3 for weight- based dosing guide). 0.3 mg/kg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet. 0.6 mg/kg/day in 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet. Weeks 3 and 4 0.3 mg/kg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet (see Table 3 for weight- based dosing guide). 1.2 mg/kg/day in 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet. Week 5 onward to maintenance The dose should be increased every 1 to 2 weeks as follows: calculate 0.3 mg/kg/day, round this amount down to the nearest whole tablet, and add this amount to the previously administered daily dose. The dose should be increased every 1 to 2 weeks as follows: calculate 0.6 mg/kg/day, round this amount down to the nearest whole tablet, and add this amount to the previously administered daily dose The dose should be increased every 1 to 2 weeks as follows: calculate 1.2 mg/kg/day, round this amount down to the nearest whole tablet, and add this amount to the previously administered daily dose Usual Maintenance Dose 1 to 5 mg/kg/day (maximum 200 mg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses). 1 to 3 mg/kg/day with valproate alone 4.5 to 7.5 mg/kg/day (maximum 300 mg/day in 2 divided doses) 5 to 15 mg/kg/day (maximum 400 mg/day in 2 divided doses) Maintenance dose in patients <30 kg May need to be increased by as much as 50%, based on clinical response May need to be increased by as much as 50%, based on clinical response May need to be increased by as much as 50%, based on clinical response Note: Only whole tablets should be used for dosing. The Initial Weight-Based Dosing Guide for Patients Aged 2 to 12 Years Taking Valproate (Weeks 1 to 4) With Epilepsy If the patient's weight is Give this daily dose, using the most appropriate combination of Lamotrigine 2-mg and 5-mg tablets Greater than And less than Weeks 1 and 2 Weeks 3 and 4 6.7 kg 14 kg 2 mg every other day 2 mg every day 14.1 kg 27 kg 2 mg every day 4 mg every day 27.1 kg 34 kg 4 mg every day 8 mg every day 34.1 kg 40 kg 5 mg every day 10 mg every day Usual Adjunctive Maintenance Dose for Epilepsy The usual maintenance doses identified in Tables 1 and 2 are derived from dosing regimens employed in the placebo-controlled adjunctive trials in which the efficacy of lamotrigine tablets was established. In patients receiving multidrug regimens employing carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, or primidone without valproate , maintenance doses of adjunctive lamotrigine tablets as high as 700 mg/day have been used. In patients receiving valproate alone , maintenance doses of adjunctive lamotrigine tablets as high as 200 mg/day have been used. The advantage of using doses above those recommended in Tables 1-4 has not been established in controlled trials. 2.3 Epilepsy—Conversion From Adjunctive Therapy to Monotherapy The goal of the transition regimen is to attempt to maintain seizure control while mitigating the risk of serious rash associated with the rapid titration of lamotrigine tablets. The recommended maintenance dose of lamotrigine tablets as monotherapy is 500 mg/day given in 2 divided doses. To avoid an increased risk of rash, the recommended initial dose and subsequent dose escalations for lamotrigine tablets should not be exceeded [see Boxed Warning ] . Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy with Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone to Monotherapy with Lamotrigine Tablets After achieving a dose of 500 mg/day of lamotrigine tablets using the guidelines in Table 1, the concomitant enzyme-inducing AED should be withdrawn by 20% decrements each week over a 4-week period. Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy with Valproate to Monotherapy with Lamotrigine Tablets The conversion regimen involves the 4 steps outlined in Table 4. Conversion From Adjunctive Therapy With Valproate to Monotherapy With Lamotrigine Tablets in Patients Aged 16 Years and Older With Epilepsy Lamotrigine Tablets Valproate Step 1 Achieve a dose of 200 mg/day according to guidelines in Table 1. Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy with Antiepileptic Drugs other than Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, Primidone, or Valproate to Monotherapy with Lamotrigine Tablets No specific dosing guidelines can be provided for conversion to monotherapy with lamotrigine tablets with AEDs other than carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or valproate. 2.4 Bipolar Disorder The goal of maintenance treatment with lamotrigine tablets is to delay the time to occurrence of mood episodes (depression, mania, hypomania, mixed episodes) in patients treated for acute mood episodes with standard therapy [see Indications and Usage ( 1.2 )] . Patients taking lamotrigine tablets for more than 16 weeks should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment. Adults The target dose of lamotrigine tablets is 200 mg/day (100 mg/day in patients taking valproate, which decreases the apparent clearance of lamotrigine, and 400 mg/day in patients not taking valproate and taking either carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitor lopinavir/ritonavir that increase the apparent clearance of lamotrigine). Treatment with lamotrigine tablets is introduced, based on concurrent medications, according to the regimen outlined in Table 5. If other psychotropic medications are withdrawn following stabilization, the dose of lamotrigine tablets should be adjusted. In patients discontinuing valproate, the dose of lamotrigine tablets should be doubled over a 2-week period in equal weekly increments (see Table 6). In patients discontinuing carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation, the dose of lamotrigine tablets should remain constant for the first week and then should be decreased by half over a 2-week period in equal weekly decrements (see Table 6). The dose of lamotrigine tablets may then be further adjusted to the target dose (200 mg) as clinically indicated. If other drugs are subsequently introduced, the dose of lamotrigine tablets may need to be adjusted. In particular, the introduction of valproate requires reduction in the dose of lamotrigine tablets [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . To avoid an increased risk of rash, the recommended initial dose and subsequent dose escalations of lamotrigine tablets should not be exceeded [see Boxed Warning ] . Escalation Regimen for Lamotrigine Tablets in Adults with Bipolar Disorder In Patients TAKING Valproate a In Patients NOT TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, Primidone b , or Valproate a In Patients TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b and NOT TAKING Valproate a Weeks 1 and 2 25 mg every other day 25 mg daily 50 mg daily Weeks 3 and 4 25 mg daily 50 mg daily 100 mg daily, in divided doses Week 5 50 mg daily 100 mg daily 200 mg daily, in divided doses Week 6 100 mg daily 200 mg daily 300 mg daily, in divided doses Week 7 100 mg daily 200 mg daily up to 400 mg daily, in divided doses a Valproate has been shown to inhibit glucuronidation and decrease the apparent clearance of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Dosage Adjustments to Lamotrigine Tablets in Adults with Bipolar Disorder following Discontinuation of Psychotropic Medications Discontinuation of Psychotropic Drugs (excluding Valproate, a Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b ) After Discontinuation of Valproate a After Discontinuation of Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b Current dose of lamotrigine tablets (mg/day) 100 Current dose of lamotrigine tablets (mg/day) 400 Week 1 Maintain current dose of lamotrigine tablets 150 400 Week 2 Maintain current dose of lamotrigine tablets 200 300 Week 3 onward Maintain current dose of lamotrigine tablets 200 200 a Valproate has been shown to inhibit glucuronidation and decrease the apparent clearance of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosing is based on concomitant medications, indication, and patient age. ( 2.1 , 16 ) Do not restart lamotrigine in patients who discontinued due to rash unless the potential benefits clearly outweigh the risks. For dosing considerations for lamotrigine in patients on other drugs known to induce or inhibit glucuronidation, see Tables 1 , 2 , 5 - 6 , and 13 . Women Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives Starting Lamotrigine in Women Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: Although estrogen-containing oral contraceptives have been shown to increase the clearance of lamotrigine [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , no adjustments to the recommended dose-escalation guidelines for lamotrigine should be necessary solely based on the use of estrogen-containing oral contraceptives. Therefore, dose escalation should follow the recommended guidelines for initiating adjunctive therapy with lamotrigine based on the concomitant AED or other concomitant medications (see Tables 1 , 5 , and 7 ). Adjustments to the Maintenance Dose of Lamotrigine in Women Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: (1) Taking Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: In women not taking carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , the maintenance dose of lamotrigine will in most cases need to be increased by as much as 2-fold over the recommended target maintenance dose to maintain a consistent lamotrigine plasma level. (2) Starting Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: In women taking a stable dose of lamotrigine and not taking carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , the maintenance dose will in most cases need to be increased by as much as 2-fold to maintain a consistent lamotrigine plasma level. (3) Stopping Estrogen-Containing Oral Contraceptives: In women not taking carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , the maintenance dose of lamotrigine will in most cases need to be decreased by as much as 50% in order to maintain a consistent lamotrigine plasma level. In women taking lamotrigine in addition to carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3) ] , no adjustment to the dose of lamotrigine should be necessary. Dose escalation should follow the recommended guidelines for initiating adjunctive therapy with lamotrigine based on concomitant AED or other concomitant medications (see Tables 1 , 2 , and 5 ). Patients with Renal Impairment Initial doses of lamotrigine should be based on patients' concomitant medications (see Tables 1 - 3 and 5 ); reduced maintenance doses may be effective for patients with significant renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Discontinuation Strategy Epilepsy: For patients receiving lamotrigine in combination with other AEDs, a re-evaluation of all AEDs in the regimen should be considered if a change in seizure control or an appearance or worsening of adverse reactions is observed. If a decision is made to discontinue therapy with lamotrigine, a step-wise reduction of dose over at least 2 weeks (approximately 50% per week) is recommended unless safety concerns require a more rapid withdrawal [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10) ] . Table 1 Escalation Regimen for Lamotrigine in Patients Older than 12 Years with Epilepsy In Patients TAKING Valproate a In Patients NOT TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, Primidone, b or Valproate a In Patients TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b and NOT TAKING Valproate a Weeks 1 and 2 25 mg every other day 25 mg every day 50 mg/day Weeks 3 and 4 25 mg every day 50 mg/day 100 mg/day (in 2 divided doses) Week 5 onward to maintenance Increase by 25 to 50 mg/day every 1 to 2 weeks. Usual maintenance dose 100 to 200 mg/day with valproate alone 100 to 400 mg/day with valproate and other drugs that induce glucuronidation (in 1 or 2 divided doses) 225 to 375 mg/day (in 2 divided doses) 300 to 500 mg/day (in 2 divided doses) aValproate has been shown to inhibit glucuronidation and decrease the apparent clearance of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . bDrugs that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation and increase clearance, other than the specified antiepileptic drugs, include estrogen-containing oral contraceptives, rifampin, and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir. Dosing recommendations for oral contraceptives and the protease inhibitor atazanavir/ritonavir can be found in General Dosing Considerations [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )]. Escalation Regimen for Lamotrigine in Patients Aged 2 to 12 Years with Epilepsy In Patients TAKING Valproate a In Patients NOT TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, Primidone, b or Valproate a In Patients TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b and NOT TAKING Valproate a Weeks 1 and 2 0.15 mg/kg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet (see Table 3 for weight-based dosing guide) 0.3 mg/kg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet 0.6 mg/kg/day in 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet Weeks 3 and 4 0.3 mg/kg/day in 1 or 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet (see Table 3 for weight-based dosing guide) 0.6 mg/kg/day in 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet 1.2 mg/kg/day in 2 divided doses, rounded down to the nearest whole tablet Week 5 onward to maintenance The dose should be increased every 1 to 2 weeks as follows: calculate 0.3 mg/kg/day, round this amount down to the nearest whole tablet, and add this amount to the previously administered daily dose. a Valproate has been shown to inhibit glucuronidation and decrease the apparent clearance of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Patients on rifampin and the protease inhibitor lopinavir/ritonavir should follow the same dosing titration/maintenance regimen used with antiepileptic drugs that induce glucuronidation and increase clearance [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1) , Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. If the patient’s weight is Give this daily dose, using the most appropriate combination of Lamotrigine 2-mg and 5-mg tablets Greater than And less than Weeks 1 and 2 Weeks 3 and 4 6.7 kg 14 kg 2 mg every other day 2 mg every day 14.1 kg 27 kg 2 mg every day 4 mg every day 27.1 kg 34 kg 4 mg every day 8 mg every day 34.1 kg 40 kg 5 mg every day 10 mg every day 2.3 Epilepsy – Conversion from Adjunctive Therapy to Monotherapy The goal of the transition regimen is to attempt to maintain seizure control while mitigating the risk of serious rash associated with the rapid titration of lamotrigine. To avoid an increased risk of rash, the recommended initial dose and subsequent dose escalations for lamotrigine should not be exceeded [see Boxed Warning ] . 2.4 Bipolar Disorder The goal of maintenance treatment with lamotrigine is to delay the time to occurrence of mood episodes (depression, mania, hypomania, mixed episodes) in patients treated for acute mood episodes with standard therapy [see Indications and Usage ( 1.2 )]. Treatment with lamotrigine is introduced, based on concurrent medications, according to the regimen outlined in Table 5 . In patients discontinuing valproate, the dose of lamotrigine should be doubled over a 2-week period in equal weekly increments (see Table 6 ). In patients discontinuing carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, or other drugs such as rifampin and the protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/ritonavir that induce lamotrigine glucuronidation, the dose of lamotrigine should remain constant for the first week and then should be decreased by half over a 2-week period in equal weekly decrements (see Table 6 ). To avoid an increased risk of rash, the recommended initial dose and subsequent dose escalations of lamotrigine should not be exceeded [see Boxed Warning ] . Escalation Regimen for Lamotrigine in Adults with Bipolar Disorder a Valproate has been shown to inhibit glucuronidation and decrease the apparent clearance of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . In Patients TAKING Valproate a In Patients NOT TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, Primidone, b or Valproate a In Patients TAKING Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b and NOT TAKING Valproate a Weeks 1 and 2 25 mg every other day 25 mg daily 50 mg daily Weeks 3 and 4 25 mg daily 50 mg daily 100 mg daily, in divided doses Week 5 50 mg daily 100 mg daily 200 mg daily, in divided doses Week 6 100 mg daily 200 mg daily 300 mg daily, in divided doses Week 7 100 mg daily 200 mg daily up to 400 mg daily, in divided doses Table 6. Dosage Adjustments to Lamotrigine in Adults with Bipolar Disorder following Discontinuation of Psychotropic Medications a Valproate has been shown to inhibit glucuronidation and decrease the apparent clearance of lamotrigine [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Discontinuation of Psychotropic Drugs (excluding Valproate, a Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b ) After Discontinuation of Valproate a After Discontinuation of Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, or Primidone b Current Dose of Lamotrigine (mg/day) 100 Current Dose of Lamotrigine (mg/day) 400 Week 1 Maintain current dose of Lamotrigine 150 400 Week 2 Maintain current dose of Lamotrigine 200 300 Week 3 onward Maintain current dose of Lamotrigine 200 200 • Do not restart lamotrigine in patients who discontinued due to rash unless the potential benefits clearly outweigh the risks. ( 2.1 , 5.10 ) Epilepsy • Adjunctive therapy—See Table 1 for patients older than 12 years and Tables 2 and 3 for patients aged 2 to 12 years.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Lamotrigine is contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity (e.g., rash, angioedema, acute urticaria, extensive pruritus, mucosal ulceration) to the drug or its ingredients [see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.3 )]. Hypersensitivity to the drug or its ingredients. ( Boxed Warning , 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to the drug or its ingredients. ( Boxed Warning , 4 ) SUBVENITE is contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity (e.g., rash, angioedema, acute urticaria, extensive pruritus, mucosal ulceration) to the drug or its ingredients [see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.3 )] . ( Boxed Warning , 4 ) Lamotrigine is contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity (e.g., rash, angioedema, acute urticaria, extensive pruritus, mucosal ulceration) to the drug or its ingredients [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), ( 5.3 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Lamotrigine is contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity (e.g., rash, angioedema, acute urticaria, extensive pruritus, mucosal ulceration) to the drug or its ingredients [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.3) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Lamotrigine extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity (e.g., rash, angioedema, acute urticaria, extensive pruritus, mucosal ulceration) to the drug or its ingredients [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.3) ] . (Boxed Warning, 4) ( Boxed Warning , 4 ) Lamotrigine tablets are contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity (e.g., rash, angioedema, acute urticaria, extensive pruritus, mucosal ulceration) to the drug or its ingredients [see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.3 )] . 4. CONTRAINDICATIONS Lamotrigine Tablets are contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity (e.g., rash, angioedema, acute urticaria, extensive pruritus, mucosal ulceration) to the drug or its ingredients [see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.3 )] .
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Significant drug interactions with lamotrigine are summarized in this section. Uridine 5´-diphospho-glucuronyl transferases (UGT) have been identified as the enzymes responsible for metabolism of lamotrigine. Drugs that induce or inhibit glucuronidation may, therefore, affect the apparent clearance of lamotrigine. Strong or moderate inducers of the cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) enzyme, which are also known to induce UGT, may also enhance the metabolism of lamotrigine. Those drugs that have been demonstrated to have a clinically significant impact on lamotrigine metabolism are outlined in Table 13. Specific dosing guidance for these drugs is provided in the Dosage and Administration section [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . Additional details of these drug interaction studies are provided in the Clinical Pharmacology section [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Table 13. Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Concomitant Drug Effect on Concentration of Lamotrigine or Concomitant Drug Clinical Comment Estrogen-containing oral contraceptive preparations containing 30 mcg ethinylestradiol and 150 mcg levonorgestrel ↓ lamotrigine ↓ levonorgestrel Decreased lamotrigine concentrations approximately 50%. Decrease in levonorgestrel component by 19%. Carbamazepine and carbamazepine epoxide ↓ lamotrigine ? carbamazepine epoxide Addition of carbamazepine decreases lamotrigine concentration approximately 40%. May increase carbamazepine epoxide levels. Lopinavir/ritonavir ↓ lamotrigine Decreased lamotrigine concentration approximately 50%. Atazanavir/ritonavir ↓ lamotrigine Decreased lamotrigine AUC approximately 32%. Phenobarbital/Primidone ↓ lamotrigine Decreased lamotrigine concentration approximately 40%. Phenytoin ↓ lamotrigine Decreased lamotrigine concentration approximately 40%. Rifampin ↓ lamotrigine Decreased lamotrigine AUC approximately 40%. Valproate ↑ lamotrigine ? valproate Increased lamotrigine concentrations slightly more than 2-fold. There are conflicting study results regarding effect of lamotrigine on valproate concentrations: 1) a mean 25% decrease in valproate concentrations in healthy volunteers, 2) no change in valproate concentrations in controlled clinical trials in patients with epilepsy. ↓= Decreased (induces lamotrigine glucuronidation). ↑= Increased (inhibits lamotrigine glucuronidation). ? = Conflicting data. Effect of lamotrigine on Organic Cationic Transporter 2 Substrates Lamotrigine is an inhibitor of renal tubular secretion via organic cationic transporter 2 (OCT2) proteins [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. This may result in increased plasma levels of certain drugs that are substantially excreted via this route. Coadministration of lamotrigine with OCT2 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index (e.g., dofetilide) is not recommended. Valproate increases lamotrigine concentrations more than 2-fold. ( 7 , 12.3 ) Carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, and rifampin decrease lamotrigine concentrations by approximately 40%. ( 7 , 12.3 ) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives decrease lamotrigine concentrations by approximately 50%. ( 7 , 12.3 ) Protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/lopinavir decrease lamotrigine exposure by approximately 50% and 32%, respectively. ( 7 , 12.3 ) Coadministration with organic cationic transporter 2 substrates with narrow therapeutic index is not recommended ( 7 , 12.3 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Valproate increases lamot rigine concentrations more than 2-fold. ( 7 , 12.3 ) Coadministration with organic cationic transporter 2 substrates with narrow therapeutic index is not recommended ( 7 , 12.3 ) Significant drug interactions with SUBVENITE are summarized in this section. Uridine 5´-diphospho-glucuronyl transferases (UGT) have been identified as the enzymes responsible for metabolism of lamotrigine, the active ingredient in SUBVENITE. Those drugs that have been demonstrated to have a clinically significant impact on lamotrigine metabolism are outlined in Table 12 . Specific dosing guidance for these drugs is provided in the Dosage and Administration section, and, for women taking estrogen-containing products, including oral contraceptives, in the Warnings and Precautions section [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] . Additional details of these drug interaction studies are provided in the Clinical Pharmacology section [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 12. Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions with SUBVENITE ↓= Decreased (induces lamotrigine glucuronidation). ?= Conflicting data. Concomitant Drug Effect on Concentration of Lamotrigine or Concomitant Drug Clinical Comment Estrogen-containing oral contraceptive preparations containing 30 mcg ethinylestradiol and 150 mcg levonorgestrel ↓ lamotrigine ↓ levonorgestrel Decreased lamotrigine concentrations approximately 50%. Effect of SUBVENITE on Organic Cationic Transporter 2 Substrates Lamotrigine is an inhibitor of renal tubular secretion via organic cationic transporter 2 (OCT2) proteins [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Coadministration of SUBVENITE with OCT2 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index (e.g., dofetilide) is not recommended. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Valproate increases lamotrigine concentrations more than 2-fold. ( 7 , 12.3 ) Coadministration with organic cationic transporter 2 substrates with narrow therapeutic index is not recommended ( 7 , 12.3 ) Significant drug interactions with lamotrigine are summarized in this section. Specific dosing guidance for these drugs is provided in the Dosage and Administration section, and, for women taking estrogen-containing products, including oral contraceptives, in the Warnings and Precautions section [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ) ,Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] . Additional details of these drug interaction studies are provided in the Clinical Pharmacology section [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Table 13 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions ↓ = Decreased (induces lamotrigine glucuronidation). ↑ = Increased (inhibits lamotrigine glucuronidation). Concomitant Drug Effect on Concentration of Lamotrigine or Concomitant Drug Clinical Comment Estrogen-containing oral contraceptive preparations containing 30 mcg ethinylestradiol and 150 mcg levonorgestrel ↓ lamotrigine Decreased lamotrigine concentrations approximately 50%. ↓ levonorgestrel Decrease in levonorgestrel component by 19%. Carbamazepine and Carbamazepine epoxide ↓ lamotrigine Addition of carbamazepine decreases lamotrigine concentration approximately 40%. Carbamazepine epoxide May increase carbamazepine epoxide levels. Effect of lamotrigine on Organic Cationic Transporter 2 Substrates Lamotrigine is an inhibitor of renal tubular secretion via organic cationic transporter 2 (OCT2) proteins [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Specific dosing guidance for these drugs is provided in the Dosage and Administration section, and, for women taking estrogen-containing products, including oral contraceptives, in the Warnings and Precautions section [see Dosage and Administration (2.1), Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] . Additional details of these drug interaction studies are provided in the Clinical Pharmacology section [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Concomitant Drug Effect on Concentration of Lamotrigine or Concomitant Drug Clinical Comment Estrogen-containing oral contraceptive preparation containing 30 mcg ethinylestradiol and 150 mcg levonorgestrel ↓ lamotrigine ↓ levonorgestrel Decreased lamotrigine concentrations approximately 50%. ↓ = Decreased (induces lamotrigine glucuronidation). · Valproate increases lamotrigine concentrations more than 2-fold. ( 7 , 12.3 ) · Carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, and rifampin decrease lamotrigine concentrations by approximately 40%. ( 7 , 12.3 ) · Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives decrease lamotrigine concentrations by approximately 50%. ( 7 , 12.3 ) · Protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/lopinavir decrease lamotrigine exposure by approximately 50% and 32%, respectively. ( 7 , 12.3 ) · Coadministration with organic cationic transporter 2 substrates with narrow therapeutic index is not recommended ( 7 , 12.3 ) Specific dosing guidance for these drugs is provided in the Dosage and Administration section [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )]. Carbamazepine and epoxide ↓ lamotrigine Addition of carbamazepine decreases lamotrigine concentration approximately 40%. Valproate ↑ lamotrigine Increased lamotrigine concentrations slightly more than 2-fold. valproate There are conflicting study results regarding effect of lamotrigine on valproate concentrations: 1) a mean 25% decrease in valproate concentrations in healthy volunteers, 2) no change in valproate concentrations in controlled clinical trials in patients with epilepsy. Additional details of these drug interaction studies, which were conducted using immediate-release lamotrigine, are provided in the Clinical Pharmacology section [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Specific dosing guidance for these drugs is provided in the Dosage and Administration section, and, for women taking estrogen-containing products, including oral contraceptives, in the Warnings and Precautions section [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) , Warnings and Precautions, (5.9) ] . Table 5. Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Concomitant Drug Effect on Concentration of Lamotrigine or Concomitant Drug Clinical Comment Estrogen-containing oral contraceptive ↓ lamotrigine Decreased lamotrigine concentrations approximately 50%. preparations containing 30 mcg ethinylestradiol and 150 mcg levonorgestrel ↓ levonorgestrel Decrease in levonorgestrel component by 19%. Effect of Lamotrigine Extended-Release on Organic Cationic Transporter 2 Substrates Lamotrigine is an inhibitor of renal tubular secretion via organic cationic transporter 2 (OCT2) proteins [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Co-administration of lamotrigine extended-release with OCT2 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index (e.g., dofetilide) is not recommended. (7, 12.3) Carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, and rifampin decrease lamotrigine concentrations by approximately 40%. (7, 12.3) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives decrease lamotrigine concentrations by approximately 50%. (7, 12.3) Protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/lopinavir decrease lamotrigine exposure by approximately 50% and 32%, respectively. (7, 12.3) Co-administration with organic cationic transporter 2 (OCT2) substrates with narrow therapeutic index is not recommended. (7, 12.3) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Valproate increases lamotrigine concentrations more than 2-fold. ( 7 , 12.3 ) • Carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, and rifampin decrease lamotrigine concentrations by approximately 40%. ( 7 , 12.3 ) • Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives decrease lamotrigine concentrations by approximately 50%. ( 7 , 12.3 ) • Protease inhibitors lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir/lopinavir decrease lamotrigine exposure by approximately 50% and 32%, respectively. ( 7 , 12.3 ) • Coadministration with organic cationic transporter 2 substrates with narrow therapeutic index is not recommended ( 7 , 12.3 ) Significant drug interactions with lamotrigine are summarized in this section. Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions ↓ = Decreased (induces lamotrigine glucuronidation). Effect of Lamotrigine on Organic Cationic Transporter 2 Substrates Lamotrigine is an inhibitor of renal tubular secretion via organic cationic transporter 2 (OCT2) proteins [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7. DRUG INTERACTIONS Significant drug interactions with lamotrigine tablets are summarized in this section. Uridine 5’-diphospho-glucuronyl transferases (UGT) have been identified as the enzymes responsible for metabolism of lamotrigine. Drugs that induce or inhibit glucuronidation may therefore, affect the apparent clearance of lamotrigine. Those drugs that have been demonstrated to have a clinically significant impact on lamotrigine metabolism are outlined in Table 13 . Effect of Lamotrigine tablets on Organic Cationic Transporter 2 Substrates Lamotrigine is an inhibitor of renal tubular secretion via organic cationic transporter 2 (OCT2) proteins [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Coadministration of lamotrigine tablets with OCT2 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index (e.g., dofetilide) is not recommended. ( 7 , 12.3 ) Coadministration with organic cationic transporter 2 substrates with narrow therapeutic index is not recommended. ( 7 , 12.3 ) Specific dosing guidance for these drugs is provided in the Dosage and Administration section, and, for women taking estrogen-containing products, including oral contraceptives, in the Warnings and Precautions section [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ),Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )].

=== CAPSAICIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose External analgesic Purpose Topical Analgesic PURPOSE FOR TEMPORARY PAIN RELIEF Purpose Topical Anesthetic
Indications: Uses Temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to: • simple backache • arthritis • strains • sprains Uses Temporary relieves minor pain associated with: arthritis foot, ankle, and calf pain muscle strains sprains bruises cramps Uses Temporary relieves minor pain associated with: arthritis ankle pain muscle strains sprains bruises cramps USES FAST ACTING DEEP PENETRATING HOURS OF RELIEF FOR ARTHRITIS BACKACHE MUSCLE ACHE JOINT PAIN SPRAINS SPORTS INJURIES TENDON INFLAMMATION OVER-USE INJURIES Uses Temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to: • arthritis • simple backache • strains • bruises • sprains 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Diclofenac sodium topical solution, USP is indicated for the treatment of signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis of the knee(s) (1). Diclofenac sodium topical solution is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for the treatment of signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis of the knee(s). ( 1 ) Uses for the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with simple backache, arthritis, strains and sprains USES TEMPORARILY RELIEVES ARTHRITIS MUSCLE PAIN INFLAMMATION USES: For temporary relief of mild pain due to muscular strain, arthritis, and simple back pain. Does not cure any disease. Uses Temporarily relieves mild to moderate aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with muscle soreness, strains, sprains, arthritis, simple backache, muscle stiffness, bruises.
Dosage: Directions Adults and children 18 years of age and older: Apply a thin film of cream to affected area and gently rub in until fully absorbed unless treating hands. Wash hands thoroughly with soap and water immediately after application for best results. Apply 3 to 4 times daily. Children under 18 years : Ask a doctor Directions clean and dry affected area remove socks from packaging, pull up over calf until snug maximum use of 10 hours per day Directions clean and dry affected area remove sleeve from packaging and place on ankle wash hands after applying DIRECTIONS APPLY GENEROUSLY. GENTLY MASSAGE INTO PAINFUL AREA UNTIL THOROUGHLY ABSORBED. REPEAT AS NECESSARY, UP TO FOUR TIMES DAILY. PRODUCT CAN BE USED WITH A WRAP. Directions Adults and children 18 years of age and older: Apply 1 patch to the affected area of intact skin up to 3 times a day. Do not leave patch on for more than 8 hours at a time. - Clean and dry the affected area. - Open pouch and remove one patch. - Remove any protective film and apply directly to affected area of pain. Apply immediately after removal from the protective envelope. - Wash hands with soap and water after handling the patches. - Reseal pouch containing unused patches after each use. Do not store patch outside the sealed envelope. - Fold used patches so that the adhesive side sticks to itself and safely discard used patches or pieces of cut patches where children and pets cannot get to them. Children under 18 years : Ask a physician 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals. The recommended dose is 40 drops on each painful knee, 4 times a day. ( 2 ) Apply diclofenac sodium topical solution to clean, dry skin. ( 2.1 ) Dispense diclofenac sodium topical solution 10 drops at a time either directly onto the knee or first into the hand and then onto the knee. Spread diclofenac sodium topical solution evenly around front, back and sides of the knee. Repeat this procedure until 40 drops have been applied and the knee is completely covered with solution. ( 2.1 ) Wash hands completely after administering the product. Wait until the area is completely dry before covering with clothing or applying sunscreen, insect repellent, cosmetics, topical medications, or other substances. Until the treated knee(s) is completely dry, avoid skin-to-skin contact between other people and the treated knee(s). ( 2.2 ) Do not get diclofenac sodium topical solution in your eyes, nose or mouth. 2.1 General Dosing Instructions Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [ see Warning and Precautions (5.2) ]. For the relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis of the knee(s), the recommended dose is 40 drops per knee, 4 times a day. Apply diclofenac sodium topical solution to clean, dry skin. To avoid spillage, dispense diclofenac sodium topical solution 10 drops at a time either directly onto the knee or first into the hand and then onto the knee. To treat the other knee, if symptomatic, repeat the procedure. Application of diclofenac sodium topical solution in an amount exceeding or less than the recommended dose has not been studied and is therefore not recommended. 2.2 Special Precautions Avoid showering/bathing for at least 30 minutes after the application of diclofenac sodium topical solution to the treated knee. Wash and dry hands after use. Do not apply diclofenac sodium topical Solution USP, to open wounds. Avoid contact of diclofenac sodium topical solution with eyes and mucous membranes. Do not apply external heat and/or occlusive dressings to treated knees. Avoid wearing clothing over the diclofenac sodium topical solution treated knee(s) until the treated knee is dry. Protect the treated knee(s) from natural or artificial sunlight. Wait until the treated area is dry before applying sunscreen, insect repellant, lotion, moisturizer, cosmetics, or other topical medication to the same knee you have just treated with diclofenac sodium topical solution. Do not use combination therapy with diclofenac sodium and an oral NSAID unless the benefit outweighs the risk and conduct periodic laboratory evaluations. Directions Rotate pump’s spout counter-clockwise slightly to unlock; clockwise to lock. Before using on children under 18 years of age, consult a physician. Apply sparingly to affected area not more than 4 times daily. However, for first use, apply to small area to test for sensitivity or skin reaction. Gently massage into the skin until fully absorbed. Wash hands with soap and water thoroughly after each application to avoid spreading to the eyes or other sensitive mucous membranes DIRECTIONS: Use only as directed. Shake before each use. Prior to first use, rub small amount to check for sensitivity. Gently rub over painful areas. Dry before contact with clothes or bedding to avoid staining. Wash hands after use. Do not use more than 4 times daily or if pregnant or nursing. If placed into eyes, rinse with cold water and call a doctor. Directions Adults and children 18 years of age and older : Apply 1 patch to the affected area of intact skin up to 3 times a day. INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE : Clean and dry the affected area. Open pouch and remove one patch. Remove any protective film and apply directly to affected area of pain. Wash hands with soap and water after handling the patches. Reseal pouch containing unused patches after each use. Discontinue use at least one hour prior to bath, shower, or swimming; do not use immediately after bath, shower, or swimming. Fold used patches so that the adhesive side sticks to itself and safely discard used patches or pieces of cut patches where children and pets cannot get to them. Children under 18 years: Ask a physician
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Read all warnings and directions before use. Test first on small area of skin. Do not use • On wounds or damaged skin • If you are allergic to capsicum or chili peppers Whe n us ing this product • You may experience a burning sensation. The intensity of this reaction varies among individuals and may be severe. With regular use, this sensation generally disappears after several days. • Avoid contact with the eyes, lips, nose and mucous membranes • Do not tightly wrap or bandage the treated area • Do not apply heat to the treated area immediately before or after use Stop use and as k a doctor if • Condition worsens or does not improve after regular use • Severe burning persists or blistering occurs Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. Warnings For external use only. When using this product use only as directed do not wear if you are allergic to any material in this product or chili peppers do not apply to wounds, damaged or irritated skin do not get into eyes or on mucous membranes do not use with heating pad or other external analgesic products a slight burning sensation may occur upon application but generally disappears in several days if severe burning sensation occurs, discontinue use immediately do not use 1 hour prior to bathing or within 30 minutes after bathing Stop use and ask a doctor if conditions worsen severe skin irritation occurs pain persists for more than 7 days symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days If pregnant or breast-feeding Ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Stop use and ask a doctor if conditions worsen severe skin irritation occurs pain persists for more than 7 days symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days If pregnant or breast-feeding Ask a health professional before use. When using this product use only as directed do not wear if you are allergic to any material in this product or chili peppers do not apply to wounds, damaged or irritated skin do not get into eyes or on mucous membranes do not use with heating pad or other external analgesic products a slight burning sensation may occur upon application in some cases if severe burning sensation occurs, discontinue use immediately AVOID CONTACT WITH EYES, MUCOUS MEMBRANES AND BROKEN OR IRRITATED SKIN. IF CONDITION WORSENS, OR IF SYMPTOMS PERSIST FOR MORE THAN 7 DAYS, OR IF REDNESS IS PRESENT, DISCONTINUE USE AND CONSULT A PHYSICIAN. FOR TEMPORARY RELIEF. NOT FOR USE IN CHILDREN UNDER 12 YEARS OF AGE. Warnings For external use only . Use only as directed or as directed by a health care professional Read all warnings and directions before use. Discontinue use at least one hour prior to bath, shower, or swimming; do not use immediately after bath, shower, or swimming. Do not use • On wounds, cuts, damaged or infected skin • On eyes, mouth, genitals, or any other mucous membranes Allergy Alert: if you are allergic to capsicum or chili peppers or any inactive ingredient of this product, contact a doctor before use. Whe n us ing this product • You may experience a burning sensation. • Avoid contact with the eyes, lips, nose and mucous membranes • Do not tightly wrap or bandage the treated area • Do not apply heat to the treated area immediately before or after use Stop use and as k a physician: • If pregnant or breast feeding • If condition worsens, or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days, discontinue use of this product and consult a physician. • If severe burning persists or blistering occurs Keep out of reach of children and pets . Warnings For external use only This is not a face cream. Do not apply to the face. Do not use if allergic to chili peppers or if past allergic reaction to capsaicin. Do not apply to wounds or damaged, broken, sunburned, chapped or irritated skin. Do not bandage tightly. Do not apply within 1 hour before or after bath, shower, hot tub, sauna or vigorous exercise. Warm water, perspiration or open pores can intensify the impact of this product and cause a burning sensation. Do not use with heating pad, hot water bottle or other source of heat. Doing so can increase risk of serious burns. When using this product do not get into eyes and avoid contact with other mucous membranes. If contact occurs or if pain, discomfort or skin redness occurs, continually rinse with cool water and seek medical help. Discontinue use and consult a doctor if condition worsens or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days. Stop using and get immediate medical attention if experience burning, pain, swelling or blistering of the skin. Rare cases of severe burning or blistering have been reported. If pregnant, breast-feeding or any medical conditions exist, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children and pets. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. If inhaled, remove to fresh air. If breathing is difficult, get medical attention immediately. WARNING FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY. USE ONLY AS DIRECTED. WARNINGS: For external use only. Do not use in eyes, mouth, on mucous membranes, or genitals. Do not allow treated skin to contact infants or pets. Do not tightly bandage. Do not use with heating pad. Do not use with other topical pain products. May stain furniture, clothing or bedding. Use only as directed or as directed by a health care professional. Do not use: • On wounds, cuts, damaged or infected skin. • On eyes, mouth, genitals, or any other mucous membranes. Allergy Alert : if you are allergic to capsicum or chili peppers or any inactive ingredient of this product, contact a doctor before use. When using this product: • You may experience a burning sensation. • Avoid contact with the eyes, lips, nose and mucous membranes. • Do not tightly wrap or bandage the treated area. • Do not apply heat to the treated area immediately before or after use. Stop use and ask a physician : • rash, itching or excessive skin irritation develops. • conditions worsen. • symptoms persist for more than 7 days. • symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Diclofenac sodium topical solution, USP is contraindicated in the following patients: Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to diclofenac or any components of the drug product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7 , 5.9) ]. History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7 , 5.8) ] . In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Known hypersensitivity to diclofenac or any components of the drug product. ( 4 ) History of asthma, urticaria, or allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. ( 4 ) In the setting of CABG surgery ( 4 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See Table 2 for clinically significant drug interactions with diclofenac. Table 2: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Diclofenac Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: Diclofenac and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. The concomitant use of diclofenac and anticoagulants have increased the risk of serious bleeding compared to the use of either drug alone. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Case-control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of diclofenac sodium with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] Aspirin Clinical Impact: Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Intervention: Concomitant use of diclofenac sodium and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . Diclofenac sodium is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact: NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. When these drugs are administered concomitantly, patients should be adequately hydrated. Assess renal function at the beginning of the concomitant treatment and periodically thereafter. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. This effect has been attributed to the NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . Digoxin Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of diclofenac with digoxin has been reported to increase the serum concentration and prolong the half-life of digoxin. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Lithium Clinical Impact: NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%, and the renal clearance decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction) Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac sodium and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Concomitant use of oral NSAIDs with diclofenac sodium has been evaluated in one Phase 3 controlled trial and in combination with oral diclofenac, compared to oral diclofenac alone, resulted in a higher rate of rectal hemorrhage (3% vs. less than 1%), and more frequent abnormal creatinine (12% vs. 7%), urea (20% vs. 12%) and hemoglobin (13% vs. 9%). Intervention: The concomitant use of diclofenac with other NSAIDs or salicylates is not recommended. Do not use combination therapy with diclofenac sodium and an oral NSAID unless the benefit outweighs the risk and conduct periodic laboratory evaluations. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac sodium and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac sodium and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. NSAIDs with short elimination half-lives (e.g., diclofenac, indomethacin) should be avoided for a period of two days before, the day of, and two days following administration of pemetrexed. In the absence of data regarding potential interaction between pemetrexed and NSAIDs with longer half-lives (e.g., meloxicam, nabumetone), patients taking these NSAIDs should interrupt dosing for at least five days before, the day of, and two days following pemetrexed administration. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., warfarin, aspirin, SSRIs/SNRIs): Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly using diclofenac sodium with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. Concomitant use of diclofenac sodium and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended ( 7 ) ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARB), or Beta-Blockers: Concomitant use with diclofenac sodium may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Monitor blood pressure ( 7 ) ACE Inhibitors and ARBs: Concomitant use with diclofenac sodium in elderly, volume depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function ( 7 ) Diuretics: NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. Monitor patients to assure diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects ( 7 ) Digoxin : Concomitant use with diclofenac sodium can increase serum concentration and prolong half-life of digoxin. Monitor serum digoxin levels ( 7 )

=== TRAMADOL HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are indicated for the management of severe and persistent pain that requires an opioid analgesic and that cannot be adequately treated with alternative options, including immediate-release opioids. Limitations of Use • Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosages or duration, and persist over the course of therapy, [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)], reserve opioid analgesics, including tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets, for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. • Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesic. Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are an opioid agonist indicated for the management of severe and persistent pain that requires an opioid analgesic and that cannot be adequately treated with alternative options, including immediate-release opioids. (1) Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosages or duration and persist over the course of therapy, reserve opioids analgesics, including tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets, for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. (1) Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesic. (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tramadol hydrochloride tablets are indicated in adults for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate ( 1 ). Limitations of Use ( 1 ) Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosage or duration and persist over the course of therapy, reserve opioid analgesics, including tramadol hydrochloride, for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain ( 1 , 5.1 ). Tramadol hydrochloride tablets are opioid agonist indicated in adults for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosage or duration and persist over the course of therapy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )], reserve opioid analgesics, including tramadol hydrochloride, for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require daily, around-the-clock, long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limitations of Use • Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses, and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with extended-release opioid formulations [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ], reserve tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or immediate-release opioids) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. Tramadol hydrochloride is an opioid agonist indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require daily around-the-clock, long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. (1) Limitations of Use • Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses, and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with extended-release opioid formulations, reserve tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or immediate-release opioids) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. (1) • Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesic. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tramadol hydrochloride tablets are indicated in adults for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration (), reserve tramadol hydrochloride tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options [e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products): • Have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated, (1) • Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia (1) Tramadol hydrochloride tablets should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate. Tramadol hydrochloride tablets are an opioid agonist indicated in adults for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate (1) . Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses , reserve tramadol hydrochloride tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options [e.g., non-opioid analgesics]: • Have not been tolerated or are not expected to be tolerated. • Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia. • Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia (1) Tramadol hydrochloride tablets should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] , reserve tramadol hydrochloride tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options [e.g., non-opioid analgesics]: Have not been tolerated or are not expected to be tolerated. Have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia. Limitations of Use (1) Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses (5.1) , reserve tramadol hydrochloride tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options [e.g., non-opioid analgesics]: Have not been tolerated or are not expected to be tolerated. Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia. Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablet is indicated for the management of severe and persistent pain that requires an extended treatment period with a daily opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosages or duration, and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with extended-release opioid formulations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)], reserve tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or immediate-release opioids) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets is not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesic. Limitations of Use • Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses, and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with extended-release opioid formulations [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] , reserve tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or immediate-release opioids) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are an opioid agonist indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require daily around-the-clock, long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use • Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses, and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with extended-release opioid formulations, reserve tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or immediate-release opioids) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. ( 1 ) • Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesic. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablet is indicated for the management of severe and persistent pain that requires an extended treatment period with a daily opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosages or duration, and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with extended-release opioid formulations [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] , reserve tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or immediate-release opioids) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablet is not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesic. Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are an opioid agonist indicated for the management of severe and persistent pain that requires an extended treatment period with a daily opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosages or duration, and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with extended-release opioid formulations, reserve tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablet for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or immediate-release opioids) are ineffective, not tolerated or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. ( 1 ) Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets is not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesic. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets are indicated for the management of acute pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use: Tramadol hydrochlorideandacetaminophen tablets are indicated for short-term use of five days or less. Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] , reserve tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics): Have not been tolerated orare not expected to be tolerated, Have not provided adequate analgesia orare not expected to provide adequate analgesia. Tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets should notbeused for an extended period of time. Tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets are a combination of tramadol hydrochloride, an opioid agonist, and acetaminophen, and are indicated for the management of acute pain, severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use: ( 1 ) Tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets are indicated for short-term use of five days or less. Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration, reserve tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics): Have not been tolerated or are not expected to be tolerated Have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia Tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets should not be used for an extended period of time. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablet is indicated for the management of severe and persistent pain that requires an opioid analgesic and that cannot be adequately treated with alternative options, including immediate-release opioids. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosages or duration, and persist over the course of therapy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] , reserve opioid analgesics, including tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosages or duration and persist over the course of therapy , reserve opioids analgesics, including tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets, for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of extended-release/long-acting opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. (2.1) Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals. Reserve titration to higher doses of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. (2.1, 5) Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. (2.1, 5.1) Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments. (2.1, 5.2) Discuss opioid overdose reversal agents and options for acquiring them with the patient and/or caregiver, both when initiating and renewing treatment with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets, especially if the patient has additional risk factors for overdose, or close contacts at risk for exposure and overdose. (2.2, 5.1, 5.2, 5.3) Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets should be taken once daily, at approximately the same time every day. (2.3) For patients currently on tramadol IR, calculate total 24-hr IR dose, and initiate tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets at a dose rounded down to next lower 100 mg increment; then adjust dose according to need and tolerance. See full prescribing information for instructions on conversion, titration, and maintenance of therapy. (2.3, 2.4) For patients converting from other opioid analgesics, discontinue all opioid analgesics other than as needed for breakthrough pain and initiate tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets at a dose of 100 mg once daily, then titrate up by 100 mg increments every 5 days according to need and tolerance. (2.3, 2.4) Do not exceed a daily dose of 300 mg tramadol. Do not use with other tramadol products. (2.4) Periodically reassess patients receiving tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets to evaluate the continued need for opioid analgesics to maintain pain control, for the signs or symptoms of adverse reactions, and for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse. (2.4) Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets in a physically-dependent patient because rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. (2.5, 5.18) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of extended-release/long-acting opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Do not use tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets concomitantly with other tramadol products [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3), (5.15)]. Do not administer tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets at a dose exceeding 300 mg per day. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions (5)] . Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see Warnings and Precautions (5)] . Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets should be taken once daily, at approximately the same time every day. Instruct patients to swallow tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets whole [see Patient Counseling Information (17)], and to take it with liquid. Crushing, chewing, splitting, or dissolving tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets will result in uncontrolled delivery of tramadol and can lead to overdose or death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets may be taken without regard to food, It is recommended that tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets be taken in a consistent manner [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 2.2 Patient Access to an Opioid Overdose Reversal Agent for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Inform patients and caregivers about opioid overdose reversal agents (e.g., naloxone, nalmefene). Discuss the importance of having access to an opioid overdose reversal agent, especially if the patient has risk factors for overdose (e.g., concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose) or if there are household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the management of pain in any patient [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.3)]. Discuss the options for obtaining an opioid overdose reversal agent (e.g., prescription, over-the-counter, or as part of a community-based program) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. There are important differences among the opioid overdose reversal agents, such as route of administration, product strength, approved patient age range, and pharmacokinetics. Be familiar with these differences, as outlined in the approved labeling for those products, prior to recommending or prescribing such an agent. 2.3 Initial Dosage It is safer to underestimate a patient’s 24-hour tramadol requirements and provide rescue medication (e.g., immediate-release opioid) than to overestimate the 24-hour tramadol dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to an overdose. While useful tables of opioid equivalents are readily available, there is inter-patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and opioid formulations. Frequently reevaluate patients for signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal and for signs of oversedation/toxicity after converting patients to Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets. Use of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets The initial dose of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets is 100 mg once daily. Patients Currently on Tramadol Immediate-Release (IR) Products Calculate the 24-hour tramadol IR dose and initiate a total daily dose of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets rounded down to the next lower 100 mg increment. . The dose should be taken once daily. The dose may subsequently be individualized according to patient need. Due to limitations in flexibility of dose selection with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets, some patients maintained on tramadol IR products may not be able to convert to tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets. Conversion from Other Opioid Analgesics to Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets When tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets therapy is initiated, discontinue all opioid analgesics other than those used on an as needed basis for breakthrough pain when appropriate. There are no established conversion ratios for conversion from other opioids to tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets defined by clinical trials. Initiate dosing using tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets 100 mg once a day. 2.4 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets by 100 mg every five days to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. The maximum daily dose of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets is 300 mg per day. Continually reevaluate patients receiving tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.18)] . Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration. During use of opioid therapy for an extended period of time, periodically reassess the continued need for the use of opioid analgesics. Patients who experience breakthrough pain may require a dosage adjustment of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets, or may need rescue medication with an appropriate dose of an immediate-release analgesic. If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets dosage. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see Warnings and Precautions (5)] . Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions. 2.5 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. Rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. Patients may also attempt to treat their pain or withdrawal symptoms with illicit opioids, such as heroin, and other substances. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. It is important to ensure ongoing care of the patient and to agree on an appropriate tapering schedule and follow-up plan so that patient and provider goals and expectations are clear and realistic. When opioid analgesics are being discontinued due to a suspected substance use disorder, evaluate and treat the patient, or refer for evaluation and treatment of the substance use disorder. Treatment should include evidence-based approaches, such as medication assisted treatment of opioid use disorder. Complex patients with co-morbid pain and substance use disorders may benefit from referral to a specialist. There are no standard opioid tapering schedules that are suitable for all patients. Good clinical practice dictates a patient-specific plan to taper the dose of the opioid gradually. For patients on tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. Patients who have been taking opioids for briefer periods of time may tolerate a more rapid taper. It may be necessary to provide the patient with lower dosage strengths to accomplish a successful taper. Reassess the patient frequently to manage pain and withdrawal symptoms, should they emerge. Common withdrawal symptoms include restlessness, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, yawning, perspiration, chills, myalgia, and mydriasis. Other signs and symptoms also may develop, including irritability, anxiety, backache, joint pain, weakness, abdominal cramps, insomnia, nausea, anorexia, vomiting, diarrhea, or increased blood pressure, respiratory rate, or heart rate. If withdrawal symptoms arise, it may be necessary to pause the taper for a period of time or raise the dose of the opioid analgesic to the previous dose, and then proceed with a slower taper. In addition, evaluate patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for an extended period of time, and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.18), Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Periodically reassess patients receiving tramadol hydrochloride to evaluate the continued need for opioid analgesics to maintain pain control, for the signs or symptoms of adverse reactions, and for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse. ( 2.4 ). Tramadol hydrochloride tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. ( 2.1 ) Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals ( 2.1 ). Reserve titration to higher doses of tramadol hydrochloride tablets for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. ( 2.1 , 5 ) Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse ( 2.1 , 5.1 ). Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. Clinical guidelines on opioid prescribing for some acute pain conditions are available. ( 2.1 ) Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. ( 2.1 , 5.1 ) Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with tramadol hydrochloride tablets. ( 2.1 , 5.2 ) Start at 25 mg/day and titrate in 25 mg increments as separate doses every 3 days to reach 100 mg/day (25 mg four times a day). Thereafter the total daily dose may be increased by 50 mg as tolerated every 3 days to reach 200 mg/day (50 mg four times a day). After titration, tramadol hydrochloride, tablets 50 mg to 100 mg can be administered as needed for pain relief every 4 to 6 hours not to exceed 400 mg/day ( 2.3 , 2.4 ). Severe Renal Impairment: increase the tramadol hydrochloride tablets, dosing interval to 12 hours, and limit maximum daily dose to 200 mg ( 2.3 ). Severe hepatic impairment : Recommended dose is 50 mg every 12 hours. Discuss opioid overdose reversal agents and options for acquiring them with the patient and/or caregiver, both when initiating and renewing treatment with tramadol hydrochloride tablets, especially if the patient has additional risk factors for overdose, or close contacts at risk for exposure and overdose. ( 2.2 , 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 ). Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue tramadol hydrochloride, in a physically-dependent patient because rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide ( 2.3 , 5.18 ). 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Do not use tramadol hydrochloride tablets concomitantly with other tramadol-containing products. Do not administer tramadol hydrochloride tablets at a dose exceeding 400 mg per day. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )] . Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of tramadol hydrochloride tablets for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. There is variability in the opioid analgesic dose and duration needed to adequately manage pain due both to the cause of pain and to individual patient factors. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with tramadol hydrochloride tablets. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )] . 2.2 Patients Access to an Opioid Overdose Reversal Agent for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Inform patients and caregivers about opioid overdose reversal agents (e.g.,naloxone, nalmefene). The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the management of pain in any patient [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 )] . Discuss the options for obtaining an opioid overdose reversal agent (e.g., prescription, over-the-counter, or as part of a community-based program) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . 2.3 Initial Dosage Initiating Treatment with tramadol hydrochloride tablets Initiate treatment with tramadol hydrochloride tablets in a dosing range of 50 mg to 100 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain, and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient's response to their initial dose of tramadol hydrochloride tablets. For patients not requiring rapid onset of analgesic effect, the tolerability of tramadol hydrochloride tablets can be improved by initiating therapy with the following titration regimen: Start tramadol hydrochloride tablets at 25 mg/day and titrated in 25 mg increments as separate doses every 3 days to reach 100 mg/day (25 mg four times a day). After titration, tramadol hydrochloride tablets 50 to 100 mg can be administered as needed for pain relief every 4 to 6 hours not to exceed 400 mg/day. For the subset of patients for whom rapid onset of analgesic effect is required and for whom the benefits outweigh the risk of discontinuation due to adverse events associated with higher initial doses, tramadol hydrochloride tablets 50 mg to 100 mg can be administered as needed for pain relief every four to six hours, not to exceed 400 mg per day. Conversion from Tramadol to Extended-Release Tramadol The relative bioavailability of tramadol compared to extended-release tramadol is unknown, so conversion to extended-release formulations may lead to increased risk of excessive sedation and respiratory depression. Dosage Modification in Patients with Hepatic Impairment The recommended dose for adult patients with severe hepatic impairment is 50 mg every 12 hours. Dosage Modification in Patients with Renal Impairment In all patients with creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min, it is recommended that the dosing interval of tramadol hydrochloride tablets be increased to 12 hours, with a maximum daily dose of 200 mg. Since only 7% of an administered dose is removed by hemodialysis, dialysis patients can receive their regular dose on the day of dialysis. Dosage Modification in Geriatric Patients Do not exceed a total dose of 300 mg/day in patients over 75 years old. 2.4 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate tramadol hydrochloride tablets to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving tramadol hydrochloride tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Withdrawal (5.18) ] . If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the tramadol hydrochloride tablets dosage. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ] . 2.5 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of tramadol hydrochloride Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue tramadol hydrochloride in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking tramadol hydrochloride tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including tramadol hydrochloride tablets) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. Complex patients with comorbid pain and substance use disorders may benefit from referral to a specialist. For patients on tramadol hydrochloride tablets who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment, (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. It may be necessary to provide the patient with a lower dosage strength to accomplish a successful taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.18 ), Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • To be prescribed only by healthcare providers knowledgeable in use of potent opioids for management of chronic pain. ( 2.1 ) • Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals ( 2.1 ). • Individualize dosing based on the severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. ( 2.1 ) • Do not exceed a daily dose of 300 mg tramadol. ( 2.1 ) • Discuss availability of naloxone with the patient and caregiver and assess each patient’s need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets. Consider prescribing naloxone based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose ( 2.2 , 5.1 , 5.3 , 5.7 ). • For opioid-naïve and opioid non-tolerant patients, initiate tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets at a dose of 100 mg once daily, then titrate up by 100 mg increments every 5 days according to need and tolerance. ( 2.3 ) • For patients currently on tramadol IR, calculate total 24-hr IR dose, and initiate tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets at a dose rounded down to next lower 100 mg increment; then adjust dose according to need and tolerance. ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) • Do not abruptly discontinue tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets in a physically-dependent patient. ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable in the use of potent opioids for the management of chronic pain. • Do not use tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets concomitantly with other tramadol products [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6), (5.14) ]. • Do not administer tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets at a dose exceeding 300 mg per day. • Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. • Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] • Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24-72 hours of initiating therapy and following dosage increases with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and adjust the dosage accordingly [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. • Instruct patients to swallow tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets whole [see Patient Counseling Information (17)], and to take it with liquid. Crushing, chewing, splitting, or dissolving tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets will result in uncontrolled delivery of tramadol and can lead to overdose or death [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. • Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets may be taken without regard to food, It is recommended that tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets be taken in a consistent manner [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.2 Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3), Patient Counseling Information (17)]. Inform patients and caregivers about the various ways to obtain naloxone as permitted by individual state naloxone dispensing and prescribing requirements or guidelines (e.g., by prescription, directly from a pharmacist, or as part of a community-based program). Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.3, 5.7)]. Consider prescribing naloxone if the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose. 2.3 Initial Dosage Patients Not Currently on a Tramadol Product The initial dose of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablet is 100 mg once daily. Conversion from Other Opioids to Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Discontinue all other around-the-clock opioid drugs when tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets therapy is initiated. Initiate dosing using tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablet 100 mg once a day. Continually reevaluate patients receiving tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions, as well as monitoring for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . During chronic therapy, periodically reassess the continued need for the use of opioid analgesics. If unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed, consider reducing the dosage. 2.5 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Do not abruptly discontinue tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. Rapid discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the dose of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. In addition, monitor patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for a long duration and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17), Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Tramadol hydrochloride tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. () • Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals. (, 5 ) • Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse (). • Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. () • Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. (, ) • Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with Tramadol hydrochloride tablets. (, 5.2) • Discuss availability of naloxone with the patient and caregiver and assess each patient's need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with tramadol hydrochloride tablets. Consider prescribing naloxone based on the patient's risk factors for overdose (, , 5.2, ). • Start at 25 mg/day and titrate in 25 mg increments as separate doses every 3 days to reach 100 mg/day (25 mg four times a day). After titration, tramadol hydrochloride tablets 50 mg to 100 mg can be administered as needed for pain relief every 4 to 6 hours not to exceed 400 mg/day . (, ) • Severe Renal Impairment: Increase the tramadol hydrochloride tablets dosing interval to 12 hours, and limit maximum daily dose to 200 mg ). • Severe hepatic impairment: Recommended dose is 50 mg every 12 hours. • Do not abruptly discontinue tramadol hydrochloride tablets in a physically-dependent patient because rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide (). 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions • Do not use tramadol hydrochloride tablets concomitantly with other tramadol-containing products. • Do not administer tramadol hydrochloride tablets at a dose exceeding 400 mg per day. • Tramadol hydrochloride tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. • Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )] . • There is variability in the opioid analgesic dose and duration needed to adequately manage pain due both to the cause of pain and to individual patient factors. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( )]. • Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with tramadol hydrochloride tablets . Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )]. 2.2 Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with tramadol hydrochloride tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( ), Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )]. Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient's risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. However, the presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [see Warnings and Precautions ( , 2, )]. Consider prescribing naloxone if the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental exposure or overdose. 2.3 Initial Dosage Initiating Treatment with Tramadol Hydrochloride Tablets Initiate treatment at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of tramadol hydrochloride tablets. Conversion from Tramadol Hydrochloride Tablets to Extended-Release Tramadol The relative bioavailability of tramadol hydrochloride tablets compared to extended-release tramadol is unknown, so conversion to extended-release formulations may lead to increased risk of excessive sedation and respiratory depression. 2.4 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy • Individually titrate tramadol hydrochloride tablets to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving tramadol hydrochloride tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control , signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reaction as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse . 2.5 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Tramadol Hydrochloride Tablets Do not abruptly discontinue tramadol hydrochloride tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking tramadol hydrochloride tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (inlcuding tramadol hydrochloride tablets) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for an extended period of time and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [ ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals ( 2.1 ). Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk for addiction, abuse, and misuse ( 2.1 ). Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24-72 hours of initiating therapy and following dosage increases with tramadol hydrochloride tablets and adjust the dosage accordingly ( 2.1 ). Discuss availability of naloxone with the patient and caregiver and assess each patient's need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with tramadol hydrochloride tablets. Consider prescribing naloxone based on the patient's risk factors for overdose ( 2.2 , 5.1 , 5.3 , 5.7 ). Start at 25 mg/day and titrate in 25 mg increments as separate doses every 3 days to reach 100 mg/day (25 mg four times a day). After titration, tramadol hydrochloride tablets 50 mg to 100 mg can be administered as needed for pain relief every 4 to 6 hours not to exceed 400 mg/day. ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) Severe Renal Impairment: Increase the tramadol hydrochloride tablets dosing interval to 12 hours, and limit maximum daily dose to 200 mg ( 2.3 ). Severe hepatic impairment: Recommended dose is 50 mg every 12 hours. Do not abruptly discontinue tramadol hydrochloride tablets in a physically-dependent patient because rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide ( 2.3 ). Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24-72 hours of initiating therapy and following dosage increases with tramadol hydrochloride tablets and adjust the dosage accordingly [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. 2.2 Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with tramadol hydrochloride tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )]. However, the presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.3 , 5.7 )]. 2.3 Initial Dosage Initiating Treatment with Tramadol Hydrochloride Tablets For patients not requiring rapid onset of analgesic effect, the tolerability of tramadol hydrochloride tablets can be improved by initiating therapy with the following titration regimen: The total daily dose may be increased by 50 mg as tolerated every 3 days to reach 200 mg/day (50 mg four times a day). After titration, tramadol hydrochloride tablets 50 to 100 mg can be administered as needed for pain relief every 4 to 6 hours not to exceed 400 mg/day . For the subset of patients for whom rapid onset of analgesic effect is required and for whom the benefits outweigh the risk of discontinuation due to adverse events associated with higher initial doses, tramadol hydrochloride tablets 50 mg to 100 mg can be administered as needed for pain relief every four to six hours, not to exceed 400 mg per day . Conversion from Tramadol Hydrochloride Tablets to Extended-Release Tramadol The relative bioavailability of tramadol hydrochloride tablets compared to extended-release tramadol is unknown, so conversion to extended-release formulations must be accompanied by close observation for signs of excessive sedation and respiratory depression. Continually reevaluate patients receiving tramadol hydrochloride tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions, as well as to monitor for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking tramadol hydrochloride tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the dose of tramadol hydrochloride tablets the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.17), Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3) ]. 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of extended-release/long-acting opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Crushing, chewing, splitting, or dissolving tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets will result in uncontrolled delivery of tramadol and can lead to overdose or death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets may be taken without regard to food, It is recommended that tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets be taken in a consistent manner [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2.2 Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with tramadol hydrochloride extended release tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3), Patient Counseling Information (17)]. 2.3 Initial Dosage Patients Not Currently on a Tramadol Product The initial dose of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets is 100 mg once daily. Conversion from Other Opioids to Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets When tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets therapy is initiated, discontinue all other opioid analgesics other than those used on an as needed basis for breakthrough pain when appropriate drugs. Continually reevaluate patients receiving tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioids withdrawal and other adverse reactions, as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Withdrawal (5.1, 5.18)]. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see Warnings and Precautions (5)]. 2.5 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation OfTramadol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Do not abruptly discontinue tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. ( 2.1 ) • For opioid-naÏve and opioid non-tolerant patients, initiate tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets at a dose of 100 mg once daily, then titrate up by 100 mg increments every 5 days according to need and tolerance. ( 2.2 ) • For patients currently on tramadol IR, calculate total 24-hr IR dose, and initiate tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets at a dose rounded down to next lower 100 mg increment; then adjust dose according to need and tolerance. ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) • Do not abruptly discontinue tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets in a physically-dependent patient. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable in the use of potent opioids for the management of chronic pain. • Do not use tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets concomitantly with other tramadol products [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ), ( 5.14 )] . • Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . • Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] • Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24 to 72 hours of initiating therapy and following dosage increases with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and adjust the dosage accordingly [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . • Instruct patients to swallow tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets whole [see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )] , and to take it with liquid. Crushing, chewing, splitting, or dissolving tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets will result in uncontrolled delivery of tramadol and can lead to overdose or death [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . • Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets may be taken without regard to food, It is recommended that tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets be taken in a consistent manner [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.2 Initial Dosage Patients Not Currently on a Tramadol Product The initial dose of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets is 100 mg once daily. 2.3 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets by 100 mg every five days to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions, as well as monitoring for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . 2.4 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Do not abruptly discontinue tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.17 ), Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare providers knowledgeable about the use of extended-release/long-acting opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. ( 2.1 ) Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals. ( 2.1 , 5 ). Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. ( 5.1 ) Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets. ( 2.1 , 5.2 ) Do not exceed a daily dose of 300 mg tramadol. ( 2.1 ) For opioid-naïve and opioid non-tolerant patients, initiate tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets at a dose of 100 mg once daily, then titrate up by 100 mg increments every 5 days according to need and tolerance. ( 2.3 ) For patients currently on tramadol IR, calculate total 24-hr IR dose, and initiate tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets at a dose rounded down to next lower 100 mg increment; then adjust dose according to need and tolerance. ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) Do not abruptly discontinue tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets in a physically-dependent patient. ( 2.5 ) Discuss availability of naloxone with the patient and caregiver and assess each patient's need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets. Consider prescribing naloxone based on the patient's risk factors for overdose [ 2.2 , 5.1 , 5.3 , 5.7 ]. Do not use tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets concomitantly with other tramadol products [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), ( 5.15 )] . Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ]. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ]. Instruct patients to swallow tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets whole [see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )] , and to take it with liquid. Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets may be taken without regard to food, It is recommended that tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets be taken in a consistent manner [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.2 Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with tramadol hydrochloride extended release tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )]. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.3 , 5.7 )]. Consider prescribing naloxone if the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose . Continually reevaluate patients receiving tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioids withdrawal and other adverse reactions, as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Withdrawal ( 5.1 , 5.18 )] . If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Discuss availability of naloxone with the patient and caregiver and assess each patient’s need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen. Consider prescribing naloxone based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose ( 2.2 , 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 ). Do not use with other acetaminophen- or tramadol-containing products. ( 2 , 5.20 ) Tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Reserve titration to higher doses of tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. ( 2.1 , 5 ) Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. ( 2.1 ) Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. ( 2.1 , 5.1 ) Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets. ( 2.1 , 5.2 ) Severe Renal Impairment : Do not exceed 2 tablets every 12 hours. ( 2.4 ) Do not abruptly discontinue tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen in a physically dependent patient because rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. ( 2.5 ) Initiate treatment with in a dosing range of two tablets every 4 to 6 as needed for pain, and at the lowest dosage necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dosage based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets; maximum of 8 tablets per day ( 2.3 , 5 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets are not approved for use for more than 5 days. Do not exceed the recommended dose of tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets. Do not co-administer tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets with other tramadol or acetaminophen containing products [see Warnings and Precautions (5.20) ] . Tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets shouldbeprescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ]. Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets for patients inwhom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures oracute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severityofpain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets. Consider this risk when selecting aninitial dose and when making dose adjustments [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ]. 2.2 Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Patient Counseling Information (17) ]. However, the presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.2, 5.3) ]. 2.3 Initial Dosage Initiate treatment with tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets is 2 tablets every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain relief, upto a maximum of 8 tablets per day, and at the lowest dosage necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets. 2.4 Dosage Modification in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with creatinine clearances of less than 30 mL/min, do not exceed 2 tablets every 12 hours. 2.5 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Tramadol Hydrochloride and Acetaminophen Tablets Do not abruptly discontinue tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapiddiscontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. For patients on opioids who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and use a gradual downward taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.21) , Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3) ] . ( 2.1 , 5 ) Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. ( 2.1 , 5.1 ) Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets. ( 2.1 , 5.2 ) Discuss opioid overdose reversal agents and options for acquiring them with the patient and/or caregiver, both when initiating and renewing treatment with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets, especially if the patient has additional risk factors for overdose, or close contacts at risk for exposure and overdose. ( 2.2 , 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 ) Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets should be taken once daily, at approximately the same time every day. ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) For patients converting from other opioid analgesics, discontinue all opioid analgesics other than as needed for breakthrough pain and initiate tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets at a dose of 100 mg once daily, then titrate up by 100 mg increments every 5 days according to need and tolerance. ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) Do not exceed a daily dose of 300 mg tramadol. ( 2.4 ) Periodically reassess patients receiving tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets to evaluate the continued need for opioid analgesics to maintain pain control, for the signs or symptoms of adverse reactions, and for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse. ( 2.4 ) Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets in a physically dependent patient because rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. ( 2.5 , 5.18 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of extended-release/long-acting opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ]. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.7 ]. Discuss the options for obtaining an opioid overdose reversal agent (e.g., prescription, over-the counter, or as part of a community-based program) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 2.3 Initial Dosage It is safer to underestimate a patient's 24-hour tramadol requirements and provide rescue medication (e.g., immediate-release opioid) than to overestimate the 24-hour tramadol dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to an overdose.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are contraindicated for: all children younger than 12 years of age [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] post-operative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] . Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are also contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)] Hypersensitivity to tramadol (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17), Adverse Reactions (6.2)] Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within the last 14 days [see Drug Interactions (7)] . Children younger than 12 years of age (4) Postoperative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy. (4) Significant respiratory depression (4) Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in absence of resuscitative equipment (4) Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus (4) Hypersensitivity to tramadol (4) Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within the last 14 days (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tramadol hydrochloride tablet is contraindicated for: all children younger than 12 years of age [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. postoperative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . Tramadol hydrochloride tablet is also contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.15 )]. Hypersensitivity to tramadol, any other component of this product or opioids [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.16 )]. Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within the last 14 days [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Children younger than 12 years of age ( 4 ). Postoperative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy ( 4 ). Significant respiratory depression ( 4 ). Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment ( 4 ). Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus ( 4 ). Hypersensitivity to tramadol, any other component of this product or opioids ( 4 ). Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are contraindicated for: • all children younger than 12 years of age [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] • post-operative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are also contraindicated in patients with: • Significant respiratory depression [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.15) ] • Hypersensitivity to tramadol (e.g., anaphylaxis) [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.16), Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] • Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within the last 14 days [see Drug Interactions (7)] . • Children younger than 12 years of age (4) • Postoperative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy. (4) • Significant respiratory depression (4) • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in absence of resuscitative equipment (4) • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus (4) • Hypersensitivity to tramadol (4) • Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within the last 14 days (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tramadol hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated for: • all children younger than 12 years of age . • post-operative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy Tramadol hydrochloride tablets are also contraindicated in patients with: • Significant respiratory depression . • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment . • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus . • Hypersensitivity to tramadol, any other component of this product or opioids . • Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within the last 14 days • Children younger than 12 years of age (4). • Post-operative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy (4) . • Significant respiratory depression (4) . • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment (4) . • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus (4) . • Hypersensitivity to tramadol, any other component of this product or opioids (4) . • Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days (4) . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tramadol hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated for: all children younger than 12 years of age [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] . post-operative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. Tramadol hydrochloride tablets are also contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] . Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] . Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)] . Hypersensitivity to tramadol, any other component of this product or opioids [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16)] . Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within the last 14 days [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Children younger than 12 years of age (4). Post-operative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy (4) . Significant respiratory depression (4) . Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment (4) . Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus (4) . Hypersensitivity to tramadol, any other component of this product or opioids (4) . Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days (4) . Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are contraindicated for: all children younger than 12 years of age [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] post-operative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] . Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are also contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)] Hypersensitivity to tramadol (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16), Adverse Reactions (6.2)] Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within the last 14 days[see Drug Interactions (7)]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are contraindicated for: • all children younger than 12 years of age [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] • post-operative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are also contraindicated in patients with: • Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.15 )] • Hypersensitivity to tramadol (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16), Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] • Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within the last 14 days [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. • Children younger than 12 years of age ( 4 ) • Postoperative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy. ( 4 ) • Significant respiratory depression ( 4 ) • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in absence of resuscitative equipment ( 4 ) • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to tramadol ( 4 ) • Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within the last 14 days ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are contraindicated for: all children younger than 12 years of age [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] post-operative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . Tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are also contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.15 )] Hypersensitivity to tramadol (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16), Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within the last 14 days [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. Children younger than 12 years of age ( 4 ) Postoperative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy. ( 4 ) Significant respiratory depression ( 4 ) Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in absence of resuscitative equipment ( 4 ) Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to tramadol ( 4 ) Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within the last 14 days ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets are contraindicated for: all children younger than 12 years of age [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] post-operative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . Tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets are also contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] . Patients with known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.18) ] . Previous hypersensitivity to tramadol, acetaminophen, any other component of this product, or opioids [see Warnings and Precautions (5.19) ] . Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within the last 14 days [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . ( 4 ) Significant respiratory depression. ( 4 ) Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in absence of resuscitative equipment. ( 4 ) Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. ( 4 ) Previous hypersensitivity to tramadol hydrochloride, acetaminophen, any other component of this product, or opioids. ( 4 ) Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days ( 4 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 2 includes clinically significant drug interactions with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets. Table 2: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Inhibitors of CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and CYP2D6 inhibitors may result in an increase in the plasma concentration of tramadol and a decrease in the plasma concentration of M1, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets is achieved. Since M1 is a more potent µ-opioid agonist, decreased M1 exposure could result in decreased therapeutic effects, and may result in signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal in patients who had developed physical dependence to tramadol. Increased tramadol exposure can result in increased or prolonged therapeutic effects and increased risk for serious adverse events including seizures and serotonin syndrome. After stopping a CYP2D6 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the tramadol plasma concentration will decrease and the M1 plasma concentration will increase which could increase or prolong therapeutic effects but also increase adverse reactions related to opioid toxicity, and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: If concomitant use of a CYP2D6 inhibitor is necessary, evaluate patients at frequent intervals for adverse reactions including opioid withdrawal, seizures, and serotonin syndrome. If a CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued, consider lowering tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate patients at frequent intervals for adverse events including respiratory depression and sedation. Examples Quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine and bupropion Inhibitors of CYP3A4 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and CYP3A4 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of tramadol and may result in a greater amount of metabolism via CYP2D6 and greater levels of M1. Follow patients closely for increased risk of serious adverse events including seizures and serotonin syndrome, and adverse reactions related to opioid toxicity including potentially fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets is achieved. After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the tramadol plasma concentration will decrease [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , resulting in decreased opioid efficacy and possibly signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal in patients who had developed physical dependence to tramadol. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets until stable drug effects are achieved. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction, educate them on the signs and symptoms of seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Evaluate patients at frequent intervals for seizures and serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved and evaluate patients at frequent intervals for signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Examples Macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and CYP3A4 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of tramadol [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to tramadol, [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5. 7)] . After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the tramadol plasma concentration will increase [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause seizures and serotonin syndrome, and potentially fatal respiratory depression. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate patients for signs of opioid withdrawal. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets dosage reduction and evaluate patients at frequent intervals for seizures and serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Patients taking carbamazepine, a CYP3A4 inducer, may have a significantly reduced analgesic effect of tramadol. Because carbamazepine increases tramadol metabolism and because of the seizure risk associated with tramadol, concomitant administration of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and carbamazepine is not recommended. Examples: Rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Intervention: Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction and, educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.3) ]. Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, gabapentinoids (gabapentin or pregabalin) , other opioids, alcohol. Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ]. Intervention: If concomitant use is warranted, frequently evaluate the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Examples: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Intervention: Do not use tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets in patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Examples: phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use. Examples: butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, buprenorphine Muscle Relaxants Clinical Impact: Tramadol may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Intervention: Because respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected, decrease the dosage of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of muscle relaxants and opioids, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see Dosage and Administration (2.2,), Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3)]. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Anticholinergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Digoxin Clinical Impact: Post-marketing surveillance of tramadol has revealed rare reports of digoxin toxicity. Intervention: Evaluate patients at frequent intervals for signs of digoxin toxicity and adjust the dosage of digoxin as needed. Warfarin Clinical Impact: Post-marketing surveillance of tramadol has revealed rare reports of alteration of warfarin effect, including elevation of prothrombin times. Intervention: Frequently reevaluate the prothrombin time of patients on warfarin for signs of an interaction and adjust the dosage of warfarin as needed. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics: Avoid use with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets because they may reduce analgesic effect of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. (5.18, 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 2: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with tramadol hydrochloride tablets Inhibitors of CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride tablets and CYP2D6 inhibitors may result in an increase in the plasma concentration of tramadol and a decrease in the plasma concentration of M1, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of tramadol hydrochloride tablets are achieved. Since M1 is a more potent μ-opioid agonist, decreased M1 exposure could result in decreased therapeutic effects, and may result in signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal in patients who had developed physical dependence to tramadol. After stopping a CYP2D6 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the tramadol plasma concentration will decrease and the M1 plasma concentration will increase. This could increase or prolong therapeutic effects but also increase adverse reactions related to opioid toxicity, such as potentially fatal respiratory depression [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3 )] . Intervention: If concomitant use of a CYP2D6 inhibitor is necessary, evaluate patients at frequent intervals for adverse reactions including opioid withdrawal, seizures and serotonin syndrome. If a CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued, consider lowering tramadol hydrochloride tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Examples: Quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine and bupropion Inhibitors of CYP3A4 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride tablets and CYP3A4 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of tramadol and may result in a greater amount of metabolism via CYP2D6 and greater levels of M1. Follow patients closely for increased risk of serious adverse events including seizures and serotonin syndrome, and adverse reactions related to opioid toxicity including potentially fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of tramadol hydrochloride tablets are achieved. After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the tramadol plasma concentration will decrease [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to tramadol. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of tramadol hydrochloride tablets until stable drug effects are achieved. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the tramadol hydrochloride tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved and evaluate patients at frequent intervals for signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Examples : Macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride tablets and CYP3A4 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of tramadol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to tramadol. After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the tramadol plasma concentration will increase [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause seizures, serotonin syndrome, and/or potentially fatal respiratory depression. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the tramadol hydrochloride tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Assess patients for signs of opioid withdrawal. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider tramadol hydrochloride tablets dosage reduction and evaluate patients at frequent intervals for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Because carbamazepine increases tramadol metabolism and because of the seizure risk associated with tramadol, concomitant administration of tramadol hydrochloride tablets and carbamazepine is not recommended. Examples: Rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, increases the risk of respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction and educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.3 , 5 .)] . Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, gabapentinoids (gabapentin or pregabalin), other opioids, alcohol. Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Discontinue tramadol immediately if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 ID201), ( 5.10 )] or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ]. Intervention: Do not use Tramadol Hydrochloride in patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment Examples: phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of tramadol hydrochloride tablets and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use Examples: butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, buprenorphine Muscle Relaxants Clinical Impact: Tramadol may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Intervention: Examples: Because respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected, decrease the dosage of tramadol hydrochloride tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 , 5.4 )] . Cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when tramadol hydrochloride tablets are used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Digoxin Clinical Impact: Intervention: Post-marketing surveillance of tramadol has revealed rare reports of digoxin toxicity. Evaluate patients at frequent intervals for signs of digoxin toxicity and adjust dosage of digoxin as needed. Warfarin Clinical Impact: Post-marketing surveillance of tramadol has revealed rare reports of alteration of warfarin effect, including elevation of prothrombin times Intervention: Frequently re-evaluate the prothrombin time of patients on warfarin for signs of an interaction and adjust the dosage of warfarin as needed Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics : Avoid use with tramadol hydrochloride tablets because they may reduce analgesic effect of tramadol hydrochloride or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Intervention: If concomitant use of a CYP2D6 inhibitor is necessary, follow patients closely for adverse reactions including opioid withdrawal, seizures, and serotonin syndrome. Follow patients closely for adverse events including respiratory depression and sedation. Follow patients closely for seizures and serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved and follow patients for signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal. ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and CYP3A4 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of tramadol [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to tramadol, [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] . Follow patients for signs of opioid withdrawal. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets dosage reduction and monitor for seizures and serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. Examples: Rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Follow patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.3, 5.7)]. Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, alcohol. Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome . Intervention: If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.3, 5.7)] Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Intervention: Follow patients for signs of digoxin toxicity and adjust the dosage of digoxin as needed. Intervention: Monitor the prothrombin time of patients on warfarin for signs of an interaction and adjust the dosage of warfarin as needed. • Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics: Avoid use with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets because they may reduce analgesic effect of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. ( 5.17 , 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 2: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Tramadol Hydrochloride Tablets Inhibitors of CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride tablets and CYP2D6 inhibitors may result in an increase in the plasma concentration of tramadol and a decrease in the plasma concentration of M1, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of tramadol hydrochloride tablets is achieved. This could increase or prolong therapeutic effects but also increase adverse reactions related to opioid toxicity, such as potentially fatal respiratory depression[see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Follow patients closely for increased risk of serious adverse events including seizures and serotonin syndrome, and adverse reactions related to opioid toxicity including potentially fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of tramadol hydrochloride tablets is achieved.After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the tramadol plasma concentration will decrease[see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)], resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to tramadol. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of tramadol hydrochloride tablets until stable drug effects are achieved . Examples: Macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride tablets and CYP3A4 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of tramadol[see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)], resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to tramadol.After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the tramadol plasma concentration will increase[see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)], which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause seizures, serotonin syndrome, and/or potentially fatal respiratory depression. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction, educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.3)]. Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, and alcohol. Intervention: If concomitant use is warranted, frequently evaluate the patient, particularly during treatment initiationand dose adjustment. Discontinue tramadol hydrochloride tablets immediately if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Intervention: Do not use tramadol hydrochloride tablets in patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Examples: phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of tramadol hydrochloride tablets and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Intervention: Because respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected, decrease the dosage of tramadol hydrochloride tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3)] Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Intervention: Evaluate patients at frequent intervals for signs of digoxin toxicity and adjust dosage of digoxin as needed. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics : Avoid use with tramadol hydrochloride tablets because they may reduce analgesic effect of tramadol hydrochloride tablets or precipitate withdrawal symptoms This could increase or prolong therapeutic effects but also increase adverse reactions related to opioid toxicity, such as potentially fatal respiratory depression [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Intervention: If concomitant use of a CYP2D6 inhibitor is necessary, follow patients closely for adverse reactions including opioid withdrawal, seizures and serotonin syndrome. Follow patients closely for increased risk of serious adverse events including seizures and serotonin syndrome, and adverse reactions related to opioid toxicity including potentially fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of tramadol hydrochloride tablets is achieved. After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the tramadol plasma concentration will decrease [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] , resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to tramadol. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the tramadol hydrochloride tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved and follow patients for signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal. ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride tablets and CYP3A4 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of tramadol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to tramadol. After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the tramadol plasma concentration will increase [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] , which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause seizures, serotonin syndrome, and/or potentially fatal respiratory depression. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider tramadol hydrochloride tablets dosage reduction and monitor for seizures and serotonin syndrome, and signs of sedation and respiratory depression. If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.3 , 5.7 )]. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of tramadol hydrochloride tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 , 5.7 )]. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when tramadol hydrochloride tablets are used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Intervention: Follow patients for signs of digoxin toxicity and adjust dosage of digoxin as needed. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics : Avoid use with tramadol hydrochloride tablets because they may reduce analgesic effect of tramadol hydrochloride tablets or precipitate withdrawal symptoms (7). Table 2 includes clinically significant drug interactions with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets. Inhibitors of CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and CYP2D6 inhibitors may result in an increase in the plasma concentration of tramadol and a decrease in the plasma concentration of M1, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets is achieved. After stopping a CYP2D6 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the tramadol plasma concentration will decrease and the M1 plasma concentration will increase which could increase or prolong therapeutic effects but also increase adverse reactions related to opioid toxicity and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the tramadol plasma concentration will decrease [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] , resulting in decreased opioid efficacy and possibly signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal in patients who had developed physical dependence to tramadol. ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and CYP3A4 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of tramadol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to tramadol, [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] . After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the tramadol plasma concentration will increase [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] , which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause seizures and serotonin syndrome, and potentially fatal respiratory depression. Evaluate for signs of opioid withdrawal. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets dosage reduction and evaluate patients at frequent intervals for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Intervention: Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction, educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.3)] . Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3)] Examples cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. After stopping a CYP2D6 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the tramadol plasma concentration will decrease and the M1 plasma concentration will increase which could increase or prolong therapeutic effects but also increase adverse reactions related to opioid toxicity, and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and CYP3A4 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of tramadol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to tramadol, [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] . Follow patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] . Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] . • Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics : Avoid use with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets because they may reduce analgesic effect of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. After stopping a CYP2D6 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the tramadol plasma concentration will decrease and the M1 plasma concentration will increase which could increase or prolong therapeutic effects but also increase adverse reactions related to opioid toxicity and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and CYP3A4 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of tramadol [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to tramadol, [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 )] . Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration (2.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.3 )] Examples cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics : Avoid use with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets because they may reduce analgesic effect of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 2 includes clinically significant interactions with tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen. Table 2: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Tramadol Hydrochloride and Acetaminophen Inhibitors of CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen and CYP2D6 inhibitors may result in an increase in the plasma concentration of tramadol and a decrease in the plasma concentration of M1, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen is achieved. After stopping a CYP2D6 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the tramadol plasma concentration will decrease and the M1 plasma concentration will increase which could increase or prolong therapeutic effects but also increase adverse reactions related to opioid toxicity, and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. If a CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued, consider lowering tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Examples: Quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine and bupropion Inhibitors of CYP3A4 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen and CYP3A4 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of tramadol and may result in a greater amount of metabolism via CYP2D6 and greater levels of M1. Follow patients closely for increased risk of serious adverse events including seizures and serotonin syndrome, and adverse reactions related to opioid toxicity including potentially fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen is achieved. After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the tramadol plasma concentration will decrease [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , resulting in decreased opioid efficacy and possibly signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal in patients who had developed physical dependence to tramadol. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate patients at frequent intervals for seizures and serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen dosage until stable drug effects are achieved and evaluate patients for signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Examples: Macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen and CYP3A4 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of tramadol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to tramadol. After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the tramadol plasma concentration will increase [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression, seizures and serotonin syndrome. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets dosage reduction and evaluate patients at frequent intervals for seizures and serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Because carbamazepine increases tramadol metabolism and because of the seizure risk associated with tramadol, concomitant administration of tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen and carbamazepine is not recommended. If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Discontinue tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Intervention: Do not use tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen in patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Examples: phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Intervention: Because respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected, decrease the dosage of tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Digoxin Clinical Impact: Postmarketing surveillance of tramadol has revealed rare reports of digoxin toxicity. Warfarin Clinical Impact: Postmarketing surveillance of tramadol has revealed rare reports of alteration of warfarin effect, including elevation of prothrombin times. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics: Avoid use with tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen because they may reduce analgesic effect of tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminophen or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. ( 7 ) Examples: Rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . If concomitant use is warranted, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 )] . Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] . Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see Dosage and Administration (2.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.3 )] Examples cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. ( 5.18 , 7 )

=== POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL 3350 ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Osmotic Laxative
Indications: Use • relieves occasional constipation (irregularity) • generally produces a bowel movement in 1 to 3 days Use relieves occasional constipation (irregularity) generally produces a bowel movement in 1 to 3 days Uses relieves occasional constipation (irregularity) generally produces a bowel movement in 1 to 3 days
Dosage: Directions • do not take more than directed unless advised by your doctor • the bottle top is a measuring cap marked to contain 17 grams of powder when filled to the indicated line (white section in cap) • adults and children 17 years of age and older: • use once a day • fill to top of white section in cap which is marked to indicate correct dose (17 g) • stir and dissolve in any 4 to 8 ounces of beverage (cold, hot or room temperature) then drink • do not combine with starch-based thickeners used for difficulty swallowing • ensure that powder is fully dissolved before drinking • do no drink if there are any clumps • do not use no more than 7 days • children 16 years of age or under: ask a doctor Directions do not take more than directed unless advised by your doctor this product is supplied with a dosing cup marked to contain 17 grams of powder when filled to the indicated line adults and children 17 years of age and older: use once a day fill to the indicated 17 grams line on cup which is marked to indicate the correct dose 17 grams stir and dissolve in any 4 to 8 ounces of beverage (cold, hot or room temperature) then drink do not combine with starch-based thickeners used for difficulty swallowing ensure that the powder is fully dissolved before drinking do not drink if there are any clumps do not use no more than 7 days children 16 years of age or under: ask a doctor DIRECTIONS • do not take more than directed unless advised by your doctor • the bottle top is a measuring cap marked to contain 17 grams of powder when filled to the indicated line (white section in cap) • adults and children 17 years of age and older: • use once a day • fill to top of white section in cap which is marked to indicate the correct dose (17 g) • stir and dissolve in any 4 to 8 ounces of beverage (cold, hot or room temperature) then drink • do not combine with starch-based thickeners used for difficult swallowing • ensure that the powder is fully dissolved before drinking • do not drink if there are any clumps • do not use more than 7 days • children 16 years of age or under: ask a doctor Directions • do not take more than directed unless advised by your doctor • the bottle top is a measuring cap marked to contain 17 grams of powder when filled to the indicated line (white section in cap) • adults and children 17 years of age and older: • use once a day • fill to top of white section in cap which is marked to indicate the correct dose (17 g) • stir and dissolve in any 4 to 8 ounces of beverage (cold, hot or room temperature) then drink • do not combine with starch-based thickeners used for difficulty swallowing • ensure that the powder is fully dissolved before drinking • do not drink if there are any clumps • do not use more than 7 days • children 16 years of age or under: ask a doctor Directions • do not take more than directed unless advised by your doctor • the bottle top is a measuring cap marked to contain 17 grams of powder when filled to the indicated line (white section in cap) • adults and children 17 years of age and older: • use once a day • fill to top of white section in cap which is marked to indicate the correct dose (17 g) • stir and dissolve in any 4 to 8 ounces of beverage (cold, hot or room temperature) then drink • do not combine with starch-based thickeners used for difficulty swallowing • ensure that the powder is fully dissolved before drinking • do not drink if there are any clumps • use no more than 7 days • children 16 years of age or under: ask a doctor Directions do not take more than directed unless advised by your doctor adults and children 17 years of age and older: use once a day stir and dissolve one packet of powder (17 g) in any 4 to 8 ounces of beverage (cold, hot or room temperature) then drink do not combine with starch-based thickeners used for difficulty swallowing ensure that the powder is fully dissolved before drinking do not drink if there are any clumps do not use more than 7 days children 16 years of age or under: ask a doctor Directions do not take more than directed unless advised by your doctor the bottle top is a measuring cup marked to contain 17 grams of powder when filled to the indicated “17 GRAMS” line adults and children 17 years of age and older: use once a day fill to indicated “17 GRAMS” line in cap which is marked to indicate the correct dose 17 grams stir and dissolve in any 4 to 8 ounces of beverage (cold, hot or room temperature) then drink do not combine with starch-based thickeners used for difficulty swallowing ensure that the powder is fully dissolved before drinking do not drink if there are any clumps do not use more than 7 days children 16 years of age or under: ask a doctor Directions • do not take more than directed unless advised by your doctor • the bottle top is a measuring cap marked to contain 17 grams of powder when filled to the indicated line (white section in cap) • adults and children 17 years of age and older: • fill to top of white section in cap which is marked to indicate the correct dose (17 g) • stir and dissolve in any 4 to 8 ounces of beverage (cold, hot or room temperature) then drink • use once a day • use no more than 7 days • children 16 years of age or under: ask a doctor Directions (Bottle Only) do not take more than directed unless advised by your doctor the bottle top is a measuring cap marked to contain 17 grams of powder when filled to the indicated line (white section in cap) adults and children 17 years of age and older: use once a day fill to top of white section in cap which is marked to indicate the correct dose (17 g) stir and dissolve in any 4 to 8 ounces of beverage (cold, hot or room temperature) then drink do not combine with starch-based thickeners used for difficulty swallowing ensure that the powder is fully dissolved before drinking do not drink if there are any clumps do not use more than 7 days children 16 years of age or under: ask a doctor
Warnings: Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you are allergic to polyethylene glycol Do not use if you have kidney disease, except under the advice and supervision of a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have • nausea, vomiting or abdominal pain • a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over 2 weeks • irritable bowel syndrome Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug When using this product you may have loose, watery, more frequent stools Stop use and ask a doctor if • you have rectal bleeding or your nausea, bloating, cramping or abdominal pain gets worse. These may be signs of a serious condition. • you get diarrhea • you need to use a laxative for longer than 1 week If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you are allergic to polyethylene glycol Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you are allergic to polyethylene glycol Do not use if you have kidney disease, except under the advice and supervision of a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have nausea, vomiting or abdominal pain a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over 2 weeks irritable bowel syndrome Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug When using this product you may have loose, watery, more frequent stools Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or your nausea, bloating, cramping or abdominal pain gets worse. you get diarrhea you need to use a laxative for longer than 1 week If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. you get diarrhea you need to use a laxative for longer than 1 week If pregnant or breast feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (800) 222-1222. (1-800-222-1222) Warnings Allergy alert Do not use if you are allergic to polyethylene glycol Do not use if you have kidney disease, except under the advice and supervision of a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have nausea, vomiting or abdominal pain a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over 2 weeks irritable bowel syndrome Ask a doctor of pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug When using this product you may have loose, watery, more frequent stools Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or you nausea, bloating or cramping or abdominal pain gets worse. Keep out of the reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away(1-800-222-1222).

=== PROMETHAZINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Promethazine HCl Suppositories are useful for: Perennial and seasonal allergic rhinitis. Vasomotor rhinitis. Allergic conjunctivitis due to inhalant allergens and foods. Mild, uncomplicated allergic skin manifestations of urticaria and angioedema. Amelioration of allergic reactions to blood or plasma. Dermographism. Anaphylactic reactions, as adjunctive therapy to epinephrine and other standard measures, after the acute manifestations have been controlled. Preoperative, postoperative, or obstetric sedation. Prevention and control of nausea and vomiting associated with certain types of anesthesia and surgery. Therapy adjunctive to meperidine or other analgesics for control of postoperative pain. Sedation in both children and adults, as well as relief of apprehension and production of light sleep from which the patient can be easily aroused. Active and prophylactic treatment of motion sickness. Antiemetic therapy in postoperative patients. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Promethazine Hydrochloride Tablets are useful for: Perennial and seasonal allergic rhinitis. Anaphylactic reactions as adjunctive therapy to epinephrine and other standard measures after the acute manifestations have been controlled. Preoperative, postoperative and obstetric sedation. Sedation in both children and adults as well as relief of apprehension and production of light sleep from which the patient can be easily aroused. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Promethazine is useful for: Perennial and seasonal allergic rhinitis. Therapy adjunctive to meperidine or other analgesics for control of post-operative pain. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Promethazine hydrochloride and dextromethorphan hydrobromide oral solution is indicated for the temporary relief of coughs and upper respiratory symptoms associated with allergy or the common cold. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Promethazine hydrochloride injection is indicated for the following conditions: Amelioration of allergic reactions to blood or plasma. In anaphylaxis as an adjunct to epinephrine and other standard measures after the acute symptoms have been controlled. For other uncomplicated allergic conditions of the immediate type when oral therapy is impossible or contraindicated. For sedation and relief of apprehension and to produce light sleep from which the patient can be easily aroused. Active treatment of motion sickness. As an adjunct to analgesics for the control of postoperative pain. Preoperative, postoperative, and obstetric (during labor) sedation. Intravenously in special surgical situations, such as repeated bronchoscopy, ophthalmic surgery, and poor-risk patients, with reduced amounts of meperidine or other narcotic analgesic as an adjunct to anesthesia and analgesia.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Promethazine HCl Suppositories are contraindicated for children under 2 years of age (see WARNINGS - Black Box Warning and Use in Pediatric Patients ). Promethazine HCl Suppositories are for rectal administration only. Allergy - The average dose is 25 mg taken before retiring; however, 12.5 mg may be taken before meals and on retiring, if necessary. Single 25 mg doses at bedtime or 6.25 to 12.5 mg taken three times daily will usually suffice. After initiation of treatment in children or adults, dosage should be adjusted to the smallest amount adequate to relieve symptoms. The administration of promethazine hydrochloride in 25 mg doses will control minor transfusion reactions of an allergic nature. Motion Sickness - The average adult dose is 25 mg taken twice daily. The initial dose should be taken one-half to one hour before anticipated travel and be repeated 8 to 12 hours later, if necessary. On succeeding days of travel, it is recommended that 25 mg be given on arising and again before the evening meal. For children, Promethazine HCl Rectal Suppositories, 12.5 to 25 mg, twice daily, may be administered. Nausea and Vomiting - Antiemetics should not be used in vomiting of unknown etiology in children and adolescents (see WARNINGS - Use In Pediatric Patients ). The average effective dose of promethazine HCl for the active therapy of nausea and vomiting in children or adults is 25 mg; 12.5 to 25 mg doses may be repeated, as necessary, at 4 to 6 hour intervals. For nausea and vomiting in children, the usual dose is 0.5 mg per pound of body weight, and the dose should be adjusted to the age and weight of the patient and the severity of the condition being treated. For prophylaxis of nausea and vomiting, as during surgery and the postoperative period, the average dose is 25 mg repeated at 4 to 6 hour intervals, as necessary. Sedation - This product relieves apprehension and induces a quiet sleep from which the patient can be easily aroused. Administration of 12.5 to 25 mg Promethazine HCl by rectal suppository at bedtime will provide sedation in children. Adults usually require 25 to 50 mg for nighttime, presurgical, or obstetrical sedation. Pre- and Postoperative Use - Promethazine HCl in 12.5 to 25 mg doses for children and 50 mg doses for adults the night before surgery relieves apprehension and produces a quiet sleep. For preoperative medication, children require doses of 0.5 mg per pound of body weight in combination with an appropriately reduced dose of narcotic or barbiturate and the appropriate dose of an atropine-like drug. Usual adult dosage is 50 mg promethazine HCl with an appropriately reduced dose of narcotic or barbiturate and the required amount of a belladonna alkaloid. Postoperative sedation and adjunctive use with analgesics may be obtained by the administration of 12.5 to 25 mg in children and 25 to 50 mg doses in adults. Promethazine HCl Rectal Suppositories are not recommended for children under 2 years of age. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Promethazine Hydrochloride Tablets, USP are contraindicated for children under 2 years of age (see WARNINGS: Black Box Warning and Use in Pediatric Patients). Allergy: The average oral dose is 25 mg taken before retiring; however, 12.5 mg may be taken before meals and on retiring, if necessary. After initiation of treatment, in children or adults, dosage should be adjusted to the smallest amount adequate to relieve symptoms. Motion Sickness: The average adult dose is 25 mg taken twice daily. The initial dose should be taken one-half to one hour before anticipated travel and be repeated eight to twelve hours later if necessary. For children, Promethazine Hydrochloride Tablets, syrup, or rectal suppositories, 12.5 to 25 mg, twice daily, may be administered. Nausea and Vomiting: Antiemetics should not be used in vomiting of unknown etiology in children and adolescents (see WARNINGS: Use in Pediatric Patients ). The average effective dose of promethazine hydrochloride for the active therapy of nausea and vomiting in children or adults is 25 mg. When oral medication cannot be tolerated, the dose should be given parenterally or by rectal suppository. 12.5 to 25 mg doses may be repeated, as necessary, at four- to six-hour intervals. For prophylaxis of nausea and vomiting, as during surgery and the postoperative period, the average dose is 25 mg repeated at four- to six-hour intervals, as necessary. Sedation: This product relieves apprehension and induces a quiet sleep from which the patient can be easily aroused. Administration of 12.5 to 25 mg promethazine hydrochloride by the oral route or by rectal suppository at bedtime will provide sedation in children. Pre- and Postoperative Use: Promethazine hydrochloride in 12.5 to 25 mg doses for children and 50 mg doses for adults the night before surgery relieves apprehension and produces a quiet sleep. Usual adult dosage is 50 mg promethazine hydrochloride with an appropriately reduced dose of narcotic or barbiturate and the required amount of a belladonna alkaloid. Promethazine Hydrochloride Tablets are contraindicated for children under 2 years of age. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Promethazine hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated for children under 2 years of age (see WARNINGS: Black Box Warning and Use in Pediatric Patients ). Allergy The average oral dose is 25 mg taken before retiring; however, 12.5 mg may be taken before meals and on retiring, if necessary. Single 25 mg doses at bedtime or 6.25 mg to 12.5 mg taken three times daily will usually suffice. Motion Sickness The average adult dose is 25 mg taken twice daily. For children, promethazine hydrochloride tablets, syrup, or rectal suppositories, 12.5 mg to 25 mg, twice daily, may be administered. Nausea and Vomiting Antiemetics should not be used in vomiting of unknown etiology in children and adolescents (see WARNINGS: Use in Pediatric Patients ). 12.5 mg to 25 mg doses may be repeated, as necessary, at four- to six-hour intervals. For prophylaxis of nausea and vomiting, as during surgery and the post-operative period, the average dose is 25 mg repeated at four- to six-hour intervals, as necessary. Sedation This product relieves apprehension and induces a quiet sleep from which the patient can be easily aroused. Administration of 12.5 mg to 25 mg promethazine hydrochloride by the oral route or by rectal suppository at bedtime will provide sedation in children. Adults usually require 25 mg to 50 mg for nighttime, pre-surgical, or obstetrical sedation. Pre- and Post-operative Use Promethazine hydrochloride in 12.5 mg to 25 mg doses for children and 50 mg doses for adults the night before surgery relieves apprehension and produces a quiet sleep. For pre-operative medication, children require doses of 0.5 mg per pound of body weight in combination with an appropriately reduced dose of narcotic or barbiturate and the appropriate dose of an atropine-like drug. Post-operative sedation and adjunctive use with analgesics may be obtained by the administration of 12.5 mg to 25 mg in children and 25 mg to 50 mg doses in adults. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION It is important that Promethazine HCl Oral Solution is measured with an accurate measuring device (see PRECAUTIONS-Information for Patients ). A household teaspoon is not an accurate measuring device and could lead to overdosage, especially when half a teaspoon is to be measured. It is strongly recommended that an accurate measuring device be used. A pharmacist can provide an appropriate device and can provide instructions for measuring the correct dose. Promethazine HCl Oral Solution is contraindicated for children under 2 years of age (see WARNINGS-Black Box Warning and Use in Pediatric Patients ). Single 25-mg doses at bedtime or 6.25 to 12.5 mg taken three times daily will usually suffice. The administration of Promethazine HCl in 25-mg doses will control minor transfusion reactions of an allergic nature. For children, Promethazine HCl Oral Solution, 12.5 to 25 mg, twice daily, may be administered. Nausea and Vomiting Antiemetics should not be used in vomiting of unknown etiology in children and adolescents (see WARNINGS-Use in Pediatric Patients ). The average effective dose of Promethazine for the active therapy of nausea and vomiting in children or adults is 25 mg. When oral medication cannot be tolerated, the dose should be given parenterally (cf. Promethazine Injection) or by rectal suppository. 12.5- to 25-mg doses may be repeated, as necessary, at 4- to 6-hour intervals. For prophylaxis of nausea and vomiting, as during surgery and the postoperative period, the average dose is 25 mg repeated at 4- to 6-hour intervals, as necessary. Administration of 12.5 to 25 mg Promethazine by the oral route will provide sedation in children. Pre- and Postoperative Use Promethazine in 12.5- to 25-mg doses for children and 50-mg doses for adults the night before surgery relieves apprehension and produces a quiet sleep. Usual adult dosage is 50 mg Promethazine with an appropriately reduced dose of narcotic or barbiturate and the required amount of a belladonna alkaloid. Postoperative sedation and adjunctive use with analgesics may be obtained by the administration of 12.5 to 25 mg in children and 25- to 50-mg doses in adults. Promethazine HCl Oral Solution is contraindicated for children under 2 years of age. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Promethazine Hydrochloride Tablets USP are contraindicated for children under 2 years of age (see WARNINGS-Black Box Warning and Use in Pediatric Patients ). For children, promethazine hydrochloride tablets, syrup, or rectal suppositories, 12.5 to 25 mg twice daily, may be administered. Pre- and Postoperative Use Promethazine hydrochloride in 12.5- to 25-mg doses for children and 50-mg doses for adults the night before surgery relieves apprehension and produces a quiet sleep. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Promethazine hydrochloride and dextromethorphan hydrobromide oral solution is contraindicated for children under 2 years of age (see WARNINGS – Black Box Warning and Use In Pediatric Patients ). The average effective dose is given in the following table: Adults 1 teaspoonful (5 mL) every 4 to 6 hours, not to exceed 30 mL in 24 hours. Children 6 Years To Under 12 Years ½ to 1 teaspoonful (2.5 to 5 mL) every 4 to 6 hours, not to exceed 20 mL in 24 hours. Children 2 Years To Under 6 Years ¼ to ½ teaspoonful (1.25 to 2.5 mL) every 4 to 6 hours, not to exceed 10 mL in 24 hours. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Administration Information for Adult and Pediatric Patients 2 Years of Age and Older The preferred route of administration of promethazine hydrochloride injection is by deep intramuscular administration (see WARNINGS - Severe Tissue Injury, Including Gangrene ). Promethazine hydrochloride injection may be administered intravenously after dilution as recommended below (see Preparation and Administration ). If pain occurs at the injection site during intravenous infusion, immediately discontinue the infusion, and evaluate for possible arterial injection or perivascular extravasation. Allergic Conditions The average adult dose is 25 mg. This dose may be repeated within two hours if necessary, but continued therapy, if indicated, should be via the oral route as soon as existing circumstances permit. After initiation of treatment, dosage should be adjusted to the smallest amount adequate to relieve symptoms. The average adult dose for amelioration of allergic reactions to blood or plasma is 25 mg. Sedation In hospitalized adult patients, nighttime sedation may be achieved by a dose of 25 to 50 mg of promethazine hydrochloride injection. Nausea and Vomiting For control of nausea and vomiting, the usual adult dose is 12.5 to 25 mg, not to be repeated more frequently than every four hours. When used for control of postoperative nausea and vomiting, the dosage of analgesics and barbiturates should be reduced accordingly (see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ). Antiemetics should not be used in vomiting of unknown etiology in children and adolescents (see PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use ). Preoperative and Postoperative Use As an adjunct to preoperative or postoperative medication, 25 to 50 mg of promethazine hydrochloride injection in adults may be combined with appropriately reduced doses of analgesics and atropine-like drugs as desired. Dosage of concomitant analgesic or hypnotic medication should be reduced accordingly (see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ). Promethazine hydrochloride is contraindicated for use in pediatric patients less than two years of age. Obstetrics Promethazine hydrochloride injection in doses of 50 mg will provide sedation and relieve apprehension in the early stages of labor. When labor is definitely established, 25 to 75 mg (average dose, 50 mg) promethazine hydrochloride injection may be given with an appropriately reduced dose of any desired narcotic (see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ). If necessary, promethazine hydrochloride injection with a reduced dose of analgesic may be repeated once or twice at four-hour intervals in the course of a normal labor. A maximum total dose of 100 mg of promethazine hydrochloride injection may be administered during a 24-hour period to patients in labor. Pediatric Patients Promethazine hydrochloride injection is contraindicated for use in pediatric patients less than 2 years of age (see WARNINGS - Respiratory Depression ). Caution should be exercised when administering promethazine hydrochloride to pediatric patients 2 years of age or older. It is recommended that the lowest effective dose of promethazine hydrochloride be used in pediatric patients 2 years of age and older and concomitant administration of other drugs with respiratory depressant effects be avoided (see WARNINGS - Respiratory Depression ). In pediatric patients 2 years of age and older, the dosage should not exceed half that of the suggested adult dose. As an adjunct to premedication, the suggested dose is 1.1 mg per kg of body weight in combination with an appropriately reduced dose of narcotic or barbiturate and the appropriate dose of an atropine-like drug (see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ). Antiemetics should not be used in vomiting of unknown etiology in pediatric patients. Preparation and Administration Instructions for Diluted Intravenous Infusion in Adults Inspect the solution for particulate matter and discoloration, before dilution, after dilution, and before administration . Discard the vial, ampule, or bag if particulates and/or discoloration are observed. Determine the recommended dose of promethazine hydrochloride injection. Aseptically withdraw the required volume from the vial or ampule and transfer it into an infusion bag. Use a filter needle when withdrawing promethazine hydrochloride injection from the ampule. Dilute with the recommended volume of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, see Table 1. Avoid mixing and/or diluting with any other drugs or solutions other than 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. Gently invert the infusion bag. Check patency of the access site before administration. Administer the diluted solution through an intravenous catheter, inserted in a large vein (preferably through a central venous catheter), over 20 to 40 minutes; for maximum infusion rates, see Table 1. Do NOT administer via an intravenous catheter in the hand or wrist. If pain occurs at the injection site during intravenous infusion, immediately discontinue the infusion and evaluate for possible arterial injection or perivascular extravasation. Table 1. Preparation and Infusion Information by Adult Dose of Promethazine Hydrochloride Injection Dose of Promethazine Hydrochloride Injection Volume of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection for Dilution Maximum Concentration of the Diluted Promethazine Hydrochloride Injection Solution Maximum Rate of Infusion 12.5 mg 50 mL 1 mg/mL 2.5 mL/minute 25 mg 50 mL 2.5 mL/minute 50 mg 50 mL 2.5 mL/minute 75 mg 100 mL 5 mL/minute Preparation and Administration Instructions for Diluted Intravenous Infusion to Pediatric Patients 2 Years of Age and Older. Inspect the solution for particulate matter and discoloration, before dilution, after dilution, and before administration. Discard the vial, ampule, syringe or bag if particulates and/or discoloration are observed. 1. Determine the recommended dose of promethazine hydrochloride injection for pediatric patients 2 years of age and older. 2. Aseptically withdraw the required volume from the vial or ampule and transfer it into an appropriately sized syringe or bag for use with an infusion pump. 3. Dilute with the recommended volume of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, see Table 2. 4. Gently invert the syringe or bag. 5. 6. Administer the diluted solution through an intravenous catheter, inserted in a large vein (preferably through a central venous catheter) with a maximum infusion rate of 1.25 mL/minute. 7. Table 2. Preparation and Infusion Information by Pediatric Dose of Promethazine Hydrochloride Injection Dose of Promethazine Hydrochloride Injection Volume of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection for Dilution Maximum Concentration of the Diluted Promethazine Hydrochloride Injection Solution Maximum Rate of Infusion Up to 25 mg 25 mL 1 mg/mL 1.25 mL/minute 25 mg to 50 mg 50 mL *Avoid mixing and/or diluting with any other drugs or solutions besides 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection Storage of Diluted Promethazine Hydrochloride Injection Diluted solution may be stored up to 4 hours at room temperature, 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F), or refrigerated at 2°C to 8°C (36° to 46°F), up to 24 hours.
Warnings: WARNINGS PROMETHAZINE HCl SUPPOSITORIES SHOULD NOT BE USED IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS LESS THAN 2 YEARS OF AGE BECAUSE OF THE POTENTIAL FOR FATAL RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION. POSTMARKETING CASES OF RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION, INCLUDING FATALITIES, HAVE BEEN REPORTED WITH USE OF PROMETHAZINE HCl SUPPOSITORIES IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS LESS THAN 2 YEARS OF AGE. A WIDE RANGE OF WEIGHT-BASED DOSES OF PROMETHAZINE HCl SUPPOSITORIES HAVE RESULTED IN RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION IN THESE PATIENTS. CAUTION SHOULD BE EXERCISED WHEN ADMINISTERING PROMETHAZINE HCl TO PEDIATRIC PATIENTS 2 YEARS OF AGE AND OLDER. IT IS RECOMMENDED THAT THE LOWEST EFFECTIVE DOSE OF PROMETHAZINE HCl BE USED IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS 2 YEARS OF AGE AND OLDER AND CONCOMITANT ADMINISTRATION OF OTHER DRUGS WITH RESPIRATORY DEPRESSANT EFFECTS BE AVOIDED. CNS Depression - Promethazine HCl Suppositories may impair the mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks, such as driving a vehicle or operating machinery. The impairment may be amplified by concomitant use of other central-nervous-system depressants such as alcohol, sedatives/hypnotics (including barbiturates), narcotics, narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, tricyclic antidepressants, and tranquilizers; therefore such agents should either be eliminated or given in reduced dosage in the presence of promethazine HCl (see PRECAUTIONS - Information for Patients and Drug Interactions ). Respiratory Depression - Promethazine HCl Suppositories may lead to potentially fatal respiratory depression. Use of Promethazine HCl Suppositories in patients with compromised respiratory function (e.g., COPD, sleep apnea) should be avoided. Lower Seizure Threshold - Promethazine HCl Suppositories may lower seizure threshold. It should be used with caution in persons with seizure disorders or in persons who are using concomitant medications, such as narcotics or local anesthetics, which may also affect seizure threshold. Bone-Marrow Depression - Promethazine HCl Suppositories should be used with caution in patients with bone-marrow depression. Leukopenia and agranulocytosis have been reported, usually when promethazine HCl has been used in association with other known marrow-toxic agents. Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome - A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with promethazine HCl alone or in combination with antipsychotic drugs. Clinical manifestations of NMS are hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status and evidence of autonomic instability (irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis and cardiac dysrhythmias). The diagnostic evaluation of patients with this syndrome is complicated. In arriving at a diagnosis, it is important to identify cases where the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness (e.g., pneumonia, systemic infection, etc.) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms (EPS). Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity, heat stroke, drug fever and primary central nervous system (CNS) pathology. The management of NMS should include 1) immediate discontinuation of promethazine HCl, antipsychotic drugs, if any, and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy, 2) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring, and 3) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. There is no general agreement about specific pharmacological treatment regimens for uncomplicated NMS. Since recurrences of NMS have been reported with phenothiazines, the reintroduction of promethazine HCl should be carefully considered. Use in Pediatric Patients PROMETHAZINE HCl SUPPOSITORIES ARE CONTRAINDICATED FOR THE USE IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS LESS THAN TWO YEARS OF AGE. CAUTION SHOULD BE EXERCISED WHEN ADMINISTERING PROMETHAZINE HCl SUPPOSITORIES TO PEDIATRIC PATIENTS 2 YEARS OF AGE AND OLDER BECAUSE OF THE POTENTIAL FOR FATAL RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION. RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION AND APNEA, SOMETIMES ASSOCIATED WITH DEATH, ARE STRONGLY ASSOCIATED WITH PROMETHAZINE PRODUCTS AND ARE NOT DIRECTLY RELATED TO INDIVIDUALIZED WEIGHT-BASED DOSING, WHICH MIGHT OTHERWISE PERMIT SAFE ADMINISTRATION. CONCOMITANT ADMINISTRATION OF PROMETHAZINE PRODUCTS WITH OTHER RESPIRATORY DEPRESSANTS HAS AN ASSOCIATION WITH RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION, AND SOMETIMES DEATH, IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS. ANTIEMETICS ARE NOT RECOMMENDED FOR TREATMENT OF UNCOMPLICATED VOMITING IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS, AND THEIR USE SHOULD BE LIMITED TO PROLONGED VOMITING OF KNOWN ETIOLOGY. THE EXTRAPYRAMIDAL SYMPTOMS WHICH CAN OCCUR SECONDARY TO PROMETHAZINE HCl SUPPOSITORIES ADMINISTRATION MAY BE CONFUSED WITH THE CNS SIGNS OF UNDIAGNOSED PRIMARY DISEASE, e.g., ENCEPHALOPATHY OR REYE'S SYNDROME. THE USE OF PROMETHAZINE HCl SUPPOSITORIES SHOULD BE AVOIDED IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS WHOSE SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS MAY SUGGEST REYE'S SYNDROME OR OTHER HEPATIC DISEASES. Excessively large dosages of antihistamines, including Promethazine HCl Suppositories, in pediatric patients may cause sudden death (see OVERDOSAGE ). Hallucinations and convulsions have occurred with therapeutic doses and overdoses of promethazine HCl in pediatric patients. In pediatric patients who are acutely ill associated with dehydration, there is an increased susceptibility to dystonias with the use of promethazine HCl. Other Considerations - Administration of promethazine HCl has been associated with reported cholestatic jaundice. WARNINGS Promethazine hydrochloride should not be used in pediatric patients less than 2 years of age because of the potential for fatal respiratory depression. Postmarketing cases of respiratory depression, including fatalities, have been reported with use of promethazine hydrochloride in pediatric patients less than 2 years of age. A wide range of weight-based doses of promethazine hydrochloride have resulted in respiratory depression in these patients. Caution should be exercised when administering promethazine hydrochloride to pediatric patients 2 years of age and older. It is recommended that the lowest effective dose of promethazine hydrochloride be used in pediatric patients 2 years of age and older and concomitant administration of other drugs with respiratory depressant effects be avoided. CNS Depression: Promethazine Hydrochloride Tablets may impair the mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks, such as driving a vehicle or operating machinery. The impairment may be amplified by concomitant use of other central-nervous-system depressants such as alcohol, sedatives/hypnotics (including barbiturates), narcotics, narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, tricyclic antidepressants, and tranquilizers; therefore such agents should either be eliminated or given in reduced dosage in the presence of promethazine hydrochloride (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients and Drug Interactions). Respiratory Depression: Promethazine Hydrochloride Tablets, USP may lead to potentially fatal respiratory depression. Use of Promethazine Hydrochloride Tablets, USP in patients with compromised respiratory function (e.g., COPD, sleep apnea) should be avoided. Lower Seizure Threshold: Promethazine Hydrochloride Tablets, USP may lower seizure threshold. Bone-Marrow Depression: Promethazine Hydrochloride Tablets, should be used with caution in patients with bone marrow depression. Leukopenia and agranulocytosis has been reported, usually when promethazine hydrochloride has been used in association with other known marrow-toxic agents. Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome: A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with promethazine hydrochloride alone or in combination with antipsychotic drugs. Other important consideration in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity, heat stroke, drug fever and primary central nervous system (CNS) pathology. The management of NMS should include 1) immediate discontinuation of promethazine hydrochloride, antipsychotic drugs, if any, and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy, 2) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring, and 3) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. Since reoccurrences of NMS have been reported with phenothiazines, the reintroduction of promethazine hydrochloride should be carefully considered. Use in Pediatric Patients: Promethazine Hydrochloride Tablets, USP are contraindicated for use in pediatric patients less than two years of age. Caution should be exercised when administering Promethazine Hydrochloride Tablets, USP to pediatric patients 2 years of age and older because of the potential for fatal respiratory depression. The extrapyramidal symptoms which can occur secondary to Promethazine Hydrochloride Tablets administration may be confused with the CNS signs of undiagnosed primary disease, e.g., encephalopathy or Reye’s syndrome. The use of Promethazine Hydrochloride Tablets should be avoided in pediatric patients whose signs and symptoms may suggest Reye’s syndrome or other hepatic diseases. Excessively large dosages of antihistamines, including Promethazine Hydrochloride Tablets in pediatric patients may cause sudden death (see OVERDOSAGE). Hallucinations and convulsions have occurred with therapeutic doses and overdoses of promethazine hydrochloride in pediatric patients. In pediatric patients who are acutely ill associated with dehydration, there is an increased susceptibility to dystonias with the use of promethazine hydrochloride. Other Considerations: Administration of promethazine hydrochloride has been associated with reported cholestatic jaundice. POST-MARKETING CASES OF RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION, INCLUDING FATALITIES, HAVE BEEN REPORTED WITH USE OF PROMETHAZINE HYDROCHLORIDE IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS LESS THAN 2 YEARS OF AGE. CNS Depression Promethazine hydrochloride tablets may impair the mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks, such as driving a vehicle or operating machinery. The impairment may be amplified by concomitant use of other central nervous system depressants such as alcohol, sedatives/hypnotics (including barbiturates), narcotics, narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, tricyclic antidepressants, and tranquilizers; therefore such agents should either be eliminated or given in reduced dosage in the presence of promethazine hydrochloride (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients and Drug Interactions ). Respiratory Depression Promethazine hydrochloride tablets may lead to potentially fatal respiratory depression. Use of promethazine hydrochloride tablets in patients with compromised respiratory function (e.g., COPD, sleep apnea) should be avoided. Lower Seizure Threshold Promethazine hydrochloride tablets may lower seizure threshold. Bone-Marrow Depression Promethazine hydrochloride tablets, should be used with caution in patients with bone marrow depression. Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with promethazine hydrochloride alone or in combination with antipsychotic drugs. The management of NMS should include 1) Immediate discontinuation of promethazine hydrochloride, antipsychotic drugs, if any, and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy. 2) Intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring. 3) Treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. Use in Pediatric Patients PROMETHAZINE HYDROCHLORIDE TABLETS ARE CONTRAINDICATED FOR USE IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS LESS THAN TWO YEARS OF AGE. CAUTION SHOULD BE EXERCISED WHEN ADMINISTERING PROMETHAZINE HYDROCHLORIDE TABLETS TO PEDIATRIC PATIENTS 2 YEARS OF AGE AND OLDER BECAUSE OF THE POTENTIAL FOR FATAL RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION. Excessively large dosages of antihistamines, including promethazine hydrochloride tablets in pediatric patients may cause sudden death (see OVERDOSAGE ). Other Considerations Administration of promethazine hydrochloride has been associated with reported cholestatic jaundice. WARNINGS Promethazine should not be used in pediatric patients less than 2 years of age because of the potential for fatal respiratory depression. Postmarketing cases of respiratory depression, including fatalities, have been reported with use of Promethazine in pediatric patients less than 2 years of age. A wide range of weight-based doses of Promethazine have resulted in respiratory depression in these patients. Caution should be exercised when administering Promethazine to pediatric patients 2 years of age and older. It is recommended that the lowest effective dose of Promethazine be used in pediatric patients 2 years of age and older and concomitant administration of other drugs with respiratory depressant effects be avoided. CNS Depression Promethazine HCl Oral Solution may impair the mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks, such as driving a vehicle or operating machinery. The impairment may be amplified by concomitant use of other central-nervous-system depressants such as alcohol, sedatives/hypnotics (including barbiturates), narcotics, narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, tricyclic antidepressants, and tranquilizers; therefore such agents should either be eliminated or given in reduced dosage in the presence of Promethazine HCl (see PRECAUTIONS-Information for Patients and Drug Interactions ). Respiratory Depression Promethazine HCl Oral Solution may lead to potentially fatal respiratory depression. Use of Promethazine HCl Oral Solution in patients with compromised respiratory function (e.g., COPD, sleep apnea) should be avoided. Lower Seizure Threshold Promethazine HCl Oral Solution may lower seizure threshold. Bone-Marrow Depression Promethazine HCl Oral Solution should be used with caution in patients with bone-marrow depression. Leukopenia and agranulocytosis have been reported, usually when Promethazine (Promethazine HCl) has been used in association with other known marrow-toxic agents. Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with Promethazine HCl alone or in combination with antipsychotic drugs. In arriving at a diagnosis, it is important to identify cases where the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness (e.g. pneumonia, systemic infection, etc.) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms (EPS). Use in Pediatric Patients Promethazine HCl Oral Solution is contraindicated for use in pediatric patients less than two years of age. Caution should be exercised when administering Promethazine HCl Oral Solution to pediatric patients 2 years of age and older because of the potential for fatal respiratory depression. The extrapyramidal symptoms which can occur secondary to Promethazine HCl Oral Solution administration may be confused with the CNS signs of undiagnosed primary disease, e.g., encephalopathy or Reye's syndrome. The use of Promethazine HCl Oral Solution should be avoided in pediatric patients whose signs and symptoms may suggest Reye's syndrome or other hepatic diseases. Excessively large dosages of antihistamines, including Promethazine HCl Oral Solution, in pediatric patients may cause sudden death (see OVERDOSAGE ). Hallucinations and convulsions have occurred with therapeutic doses and overdoses of Promethazine in pediatric patients. Other Considerations Administration of Promethazine HCl has been associated with reported cholestatic jaundice. WARNINGS PROMETHAZINE HYDROCHLORIDE TABLETS USP SHOULD NOT BE USED IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS LESS THAN 2 YEARS OF AGE BECAUSE OF THE POTENTIAL FOR FATAL RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION. They should be used with caution in persons with seizure disorders or in persons who are using concomitant medications, such as narcotics or local anesthetics, which may also affect seizure threshold. Bone-Marrow Depression Promethazine hydrochloride tablets should be used with caution in patients with bone-marrow depression. Use in Pediatric Patients PROMETHAZINE HYDROCHLORIDE TABLETS USP ARE CONTRAINDICATED FOR USE IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS LESS THAN TWO YEARS OF AGE. THE USE OF PROMETHAZINE HCL TABLETS SHOULD BE AVOIDED IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS WHOSE SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS MAY SUGGEST REYE’S SYNDROME OR OTHER HEPATIC DISEASES. Excessively large dosages of antihistamines, including promethazine hydrochloride tablets, in pediatric patients may cause sudden death (see OVERDOSAGE ). WARNINGS WARNING: PROMETHAZINE HYDROCHLORIDE SHOULD NOT BE USED IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS LESS THAN 2 YEARS OF AGE BECAUSE OF THE POTENTIAL FOR FATAL RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION. Dextromethorphan: Administration of dextromethorphan may be accompanied by histamine release and should be used with caution in atopic children. Promethazine: CNS Depression: Promethazine may impair the mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks, such as driving a vehicle or operating machinery. The impairment may be amplified by concomitant use of other central nervous system depressants such as alcohol, sedatives/hypnotics (including barbiturates), narcotics, narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, tricyclic antidepressants, and tranquilizers; therefore, such agents should either be eliminated or given in reduced dosage in the presence of promethazine HCl (see PRECAUTIONS - Information For Patients and Drug Interactions ). Respiratory Depression: Promethazine may lead to potentially fatal respiratory depression. Use of promethazine in patients with compromised respiratory function (e.g., COPD, sleep apnea) should be avoided. Lower Seizure Threshold: Promethazine may lower seizure threshold. Bone Marrow Depression: Promethazine should be used with caution in patients with bone marrow depression. Leukopenia and agranulocytosis have been reported, usually when promethazine HCl has been used in association with other known marrow toxic agents. Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome: A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with promethazine HCl alone or in combination with antipsychotic drugs. Use in Pediatric Patients PROMETHAZINE PRODUCTS ARE CONTRAINDICATED FOR USE IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS LESS THAN TWO YEARS OF AGE. CAUTION SHOULD BE EXERCISED WHEN ADMINISTERING PROMETHAZINE PRODUCTS TO PEDIATRIC PATIENTS 2 YEARS OF AGE AND OLDER BECAUSE OF THE POTENTIAL FOR FATAL RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION. THE EXTRAPYRAMIDAL SYMPTOMS WHICH CAN OCCUR SECONDARY TO PROMETHAZINE HYDROCHLORIDE ADMINISTRATION MAY BE CONFUSED WITH THE CNS SIGNS OF UNDIAGNOSED PRIMARY DISEASE, e.g., ENCEPHALOPATHY OR REYE'S SYNDROME. THE USE OF PROMETHAZINE PRODUCTS SHOULD BE AVOIDED IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS WHOSE SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS MAY SUGGEST REYE'S SYNDROME OR OTHER HEPATIC DISEASES. Excessively large dosages of antihistamines, including promethazine hydrochloride, in pediatric patients may cause sudden death (see OVERDOSAGE ). Other Considerations Administration of promethazine has been associated with reported cholestatic jaundice. WARNINGS Respiratory Depression Pediatrics Promethazine hydrochloride injection should not be used in pediatric patients less than 2 years of age because of the potential for fatal respiratory depression. A wide range of weight-based doses of promethazine hydrochloride injection have resulted in respiratory depression in these patients. Caution should be exercised when administering promethazine hydrochloride injection to pediatric patients 2 years of age and older. It is recommended that the lowest effective dose of promethazine hydrochloride injection be used in pediatric patients 2 years of age and older. Avoid concomitant administration of other drugs with respiratory depressant effects because of an association with respiratory depression, and sometimes death, in pediatric patients. Other Because of the risk of potentially fatal respiratory depression, use of promethazine hydrochloride injection in patients with compromised respiratory function or patients at risk for respiratory failure (e.g. COPD, sleep apnea) should be avoided. Severe Tissue Injury, Including Gangrene Promethazine hydrochloride injection has been reported to cause severe chemical irritation and damage to tissues, including gangrene, regardless of the route of parenteral administration. Intra-arterial and subcutaneous administration have resulted in more significant complications. The use of promethazine hydrochloride injection by intravenous injection at concentrations greater than 1 mg/mL, intra- arterial injection, or subcutaneous injection is contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Irritation and damage can result from perivascular extravasation, intra- arterial injection, and intraneuronal or perineuronal infiltration. Inadvertent intra-arterial injection can cause severe arteriospasm. Other reported adverse reactions included burning, pain, erythema, swelling, sensory loss, palsies, paralysis, severe spasm of distal vessels, thrombophlebitis, venous thrombosis, phlebitis, abscesses, tissue necrosis, and gangrene. In some cases, surgical intervention, including fasciotomy, skin graft, and/or amputation have been required. The preferred route of administration of promethazine hydrochloride injection is by deep intramuscular administration. Promethazine hydrochloride injection may be administered intravenously after dilution through an intravenous catheter inserted in a large vein. Preferably through a central venous catheter (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). If pain occurs at the injection site during intravenous infusion, immediately discontinue the infusion, evaluate for possible arterial injection or perivascular extravasation, and initiate appropriate medical management. CNS Depression Promethazine hydrochloride injection may impair the mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks, such as driving a vehicle or operating machinery. The impairment may be amplified by concomitant use of other central-nervous-system depressants such as alcohol, sedative/hypnotics (including barbiturates), general anesthetics, narcotics, narcotic analgesics, tricyclic antidepressants, and tranquilizers; therefore such agents should either be eliminated or given in reduced dosage in the presence of promethazine hydrochloride (see PRECAUTIONS - Information for Patients and Drug Interactions ). Lower Seizure Threshold Promethazine hydrochloride injection may lower seizure threshold and should be used with caution in persons with seizure disorders or in persons who are using concomitant medications, such as narcotics or local anesthetics, which may also affect seizure threshold. Bone-Marrow Depression Promethazine hydrochloride injection should be used with caution in patients with bone-marrow depression. Leukopenia and agranulocytosis have been reported, usually when promethazine hydrochloride has been used in association with other known marrow-toxic agents. Since recurrences of NMS have been reported with phenothiazines, the reintroduction of promethazine hydrochloride should be carefully considered. Sulfite Sensitivity Promethazine hydrochloride injection contains sodium metabisulfite, a sulfite that may cause allergic-type reactions, including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthma episodes, in certain susceptible people. The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low. Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people. Visual Inspection This product is light sensitive and should be inspected before use and discarded if either color or particulate is observed. Cholestatic Jaundice Administration of promethazine has been associated with reported cholestatic jaundice.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Promethazine HCl Suppositories are contraindicated for use in pediatric patients less than two years of age. Promethazine HCl Suppositories are contraindicated in comatose states, and in individuals known to be hypersensitive or to have had an idiosyncratic reaction to promethazine or to other phenothiazines. Antihistamines are contraindicated for use in the treatment of lower respiratory tract symptoms including asthma. CONTRAINDICATIONS Promethazine Hydrochloride Tablets, USP are contraindicated for use in pediatric patients less than two years of age. Promethazine is contraindicated in comatose state, and in individuals known to be hypersensitive or to have had an idiosyncratic reaction to promethazine or to other phenthiazines. CONTRAINDICATIONS Promethazine hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated for use in pediatric patients less than two years of age. CONTRAINDICATIONS Promethazine HCl Oral Solution is contraindicated for use in pediatric patients less than two years of age. Promethazine HCl Oral Solution is contraindicated in comatose states, and in individuals known to be hypersensitive or to have had an idiosyncratic reaction to Promethazine or to other phenothiazines. Promethazine hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in comatose states, and in individuals known to be hypersensitive or to have had an idiosyncratic reaction to promethazine or to other phenothiazines. CONTRAINDICATIONS Dextromethorphan should not be used in patients receiving a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Promethazine is contraindicated in comatose states, and in individuals known to be hypersensitive or to have had an idiosyncratic reaction to promethazine or to other phenothiazines. Antihistamines are contraindicated for use in the treatment of lower respiratory tract symptoms, including asthma. CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of promethazine hydrochloride injection is contraindicated: • In pediatric patients less than 2 years of age due to the risk of respiratory depression (see WARNINGS – Respiratory Depression ). • For use as an intravenous injection at concentrations greater than 1 mg/mL due to the risk of perivascular extravasation, unintentional intra-arterial injection, and intraneuronal or perineuronal infiltration (see WARNINGS - Severe Tissue Injury, Including Gangrene and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). • For use as an intra-arterial injection due to the likelihood of severe arteriospasm and the possibility of resultant gangrene (see WARNINGS - Severe Tissue Injury, Including Gangrene ). • For use as a subcutaneous injection because chemical irritation and necrotic lesions have been reported (see WARNINGS - Severe Tissue Injury, Including Gangrene ). • In patients in a comatose state. • In patients who have demonstrated an idiosyncratic reaction or hypersensitivity to promethazine hydrochloride or other phenothiazines.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions CNS Depressants - Promethazine HCl Suppositories may increase, prolong, or intensify the sedative action of other central-nervous-system depressants, such as alcohol, sedatives/hypnotics (including barbiturates), narcotics, narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, tricyclic antidepressants, and tranquilizers; therefore, such agents should be avoided or administered in reduced dosage to patients receiving promethazine HCl. When given concomitantly with Promethazine HCl Suppositories, the dose of barbiturates should be reduced by at least one-half, and the dose of narcotics should be reduced by one-quarter to one-half. Dosage must be individualized. Excessive amounts of promethazine HCl relative to a narcotic may lead to restlessness and motor hyperactivity in the patient with pain; these symptoms usually disappear with adequate control of the pain. Epinephrine - Because of the potential for promethazine HCl to reverse epinephrine's vasopressor effect, epinephrine should NOT be used to treat hypotension associated with Promethazine HCl Suppositories overdose. Anticholinergics - Concomitant use of other agents with anticholinergic properties should be undertaken with caution. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) - Drug interactions, including an increased incidence of extrapyramidal effects, have been reported when some MAOI and phenothiazines are used concomitantly. This possibility should be considered with Promethazine HCl Suppositories. Drug Interactions CNS Depressants Promethazine HCl Oral Solution may increase, prolong, or intensify the sedative action of other central-nervous-system depressants, such as alcohol, sedatives/hypnotics (including barbiturates), narcotics, narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, tricyclic antidepressants, and tranquilizers; therefore, such agents should be avoided or administered in reduced dosage to patients receiving Promethazine HCl. When given concomitantly with Promethazine HCl Oral Solution, the dose of barbiturates should be reduced by at least one-half, and the dose of narcotics should be reduced by one-quarter to one-half. Epinephrine Because of the potential for Promethazine to reverse epinephrine's vasopressor effect, epinephrine should NOT be used to treat hypotension associated with Promethazine HCl Oral Solution overdose. Anticholinergics Concomitant use of other agents with anticholinergic properties should be undertaken with caution. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) Drug interactions, including an increased incidence of extrapyramidal effects, have been reported when some MAOI and phenothiazines are used concomitantly. This possibility should be considered with Promethazine HCl Oral Solution. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions The following laboratory tests may be affected in patients who are receiving therapy with Promethazine HCl: Pregnancy Tests Diagnostic pregnancy tests based on immunological reactions between HCG and anti-HCG may result in false-negative or false-positive interpretations. Glucose Tolerance Test An increase in blood glucose has been reported in patients receiving Promethazine HCl. Drug Interactions CNS Depressants - Promethazine hydrochloride tablets may increase, prolong, or intensify the sedative action of other central-nervous-system depressants, such as alcohol, sedatives/hypnotics (including barbiturates), narcotics, narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, tricyclic antidepressants, and tranquilizers; therefore, such agents should be avoided or administered in reduced dosage to patients receiving promethazine HCl. When given concomitantly with promethazine hydrochloride tablets, the dose of barbiturates should be reduced by at least one-half, and the dose of narcotics should be reduced by one-quarter to one-half. Epinephrine - Because of the potential for promethazine to reverse epinephrine’s vasopressor effect, epinephrine should NOT be used to treat hypotension associated with promethazine hydrochloride tablets overdose. This possibility should be considered with promethazine hydrochloride tablets. Drug Interactions Dextromethorphan: Hyperpyrexia, hypotension, and death have been reported coincident with the coadministration of monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors and products containing dextromethorphan. Thus, concomitant administration of promethazine with dextromethorphan and MAO inhibitors should be avoided (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Promethazine: CNS Depressants – Promethazine may increase, prolong, or intensify the sedative action of other central nervous system depressants, such as alcohol, sedatives/hypnotics (including barbiturates), narcotics, narcotic analgesics, general anesthetics, tricyclic antidepressants, and tranquilizers; therefore, such agents should be avoided or administered in reduced dosage to patients receiving promethazine HCl. When given concomitantly with promethazine, the dose of barbiturates should be reduced by at least one-half, and the dose of narcotics should be reduced by one-quarter to one-half. Epinephrine – Because of the potential for promethazine to reverse epinephrine's vasopressor effect, epinephrine should NOT be used to treat hypotension associated with promethazine overdose. Anticholinergics – Concomitant use of other agents with anticholinergic properties should be undertaken with caution. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) – Drug interactions, including an increased incidence of extrapyramidal effects, have been reported when some MAOI and phenothiazines are used concomitantly. Drug Interactions CNS Depressants Promethazine hydrochloride injection may increase, prolong, or intensify the sedative action of central-nervous system depressants, such as alcohol, sedative/hypnotics (including barbiturates), general anesthetics, narcotics, narcotic analgesics, tricyclic antidepressants, and tranquilizers; therefore, such agents should be avoided or administered in reduced dosage to patients receiving promethazine hydrochloride. When given concomitantly with promethazine hydrochloride injection, the dose of barbiturates should be reduced by at least one-half, and the dose of narcotics should be reduced by one-quarter to one-half. Excessive amounts of promethazine hydrochloride injection relative to a narcotic may lead to restlessness and motor hyperactivity in the patient with pain; these symptoms usually disappear with adequate control of the pain. Epinephrine Because of the potential for promethazine hydrochloride to reverse epinephrine’s vasopressor effect, epinephrine should NOT be used to treat hypotension associated with promethazine hydrochloride injection overdose. Monoamine Oxidase (MAO) Inhibitors Drug interactions, including an increased incidence of extrapyramidal effects, have been reported when some MAO Inhibitors and phenothiazines are used concomitantly. This possibility should be considered with promethazine hydrochloride injection.

=== OLANZAPINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Olanzapine is an atypical antipsychotic indicated: As oral formulation for the: Treatment of schizophrenia. ( 1.1 ) Adults: Efficacy was established in three clinical trials in patients with schizophrenia: two 6-week trials and one maintenance trial. ( 14.1 ) Adolescents (ages 13-17): Efficacy was established in one 6-week trial in patients with schizophrenia ( 14.1 ). The increased potential (in adolescents compared with adults) for weight gain and dyslipidemia may lead clinicians to consider prescribing other drugs first in adolescents. ( 1.1 ) Acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder and maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder. ( 1.2 ) Adults: Efficacy was established in three clinical trials in patients with manic or mixed episodes of bipolar I disorder: two 3- to 4-week trials and one maintenance trial. ( 14.2 ) Adolescents (ages 13-17): Efficacy was established in one 3-week trial in patients with manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder ( 14.2 ). ( 1.2 ) Medication therapy for pediatric patients with schizophrenia or bipolar I disorder should be undertaken only after a thorough diagnostic evaluation and with careful consideration of the potential risks. ( 1.3 ) Adjunct to valproate or lithium in the treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. ( 1.2 ) Efficacy was established in two 6-week clinical trials in adults ( 14.2 ). Maintenance efficacy has not been systematically evaluated. As Olanzapine and Fluoxetine in Combination for the: Treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. ( 1.5 ) Efficacy was established with Symbyax (olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination); refer to the product label for Symbyax. Treatment of treatment resistant depression. ( 1.6 ) Efficacy was established with Symbyax (olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination) in adults; refer to the product label for Symbyax. 1.1 Schizophrenia Oral olanzapine is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. Efficacy was established in three clinical trials in adult patients with schizophrenia: two 6-week trials and one maintenance trial. In adolescent patients with schizophrenia (ages 13-17), efficacy was established in one 6-week trial [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . When deciding among the alternative treatments available for adolescents, clinicians should consider the increased potential (in adolescents as compared with adults) for weight gain and dyslipidemia. Clinicians should consider the potential long-term risks when prescribing to adolescents, and in many cases this may lead them to consider prescribing other drugs first in adolescents [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ] . 1.2 Bipolar I Disorder (Manic or Mixed Episodes) Monotherapy — Oral olanzapine is indicated for the acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder and maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder. Efficacy was established in three clinical trials in adult patients with manic or mixed episodes of bipolar I disorder: two 3- to 4-week trials and one monotherapy maintenance trial. In adolescent patients with manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder (ages 13-17), efficacy was established in one 3-week trial [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . Adjunctive Therapy to Lithium or Valproate — Oral olanzapine is indicated for the treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder as an adjunct to lithium or valproate. Efficacy was established in two 6-week clinical trials in adults. The effectiveness of adjunctive therapy for longer-term use has not been systematically evaluated in controlled trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . 1.3 Special Considerations in Treating Pediatric Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder Pediatric schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder are serious mental disorders; however, diagnosis can be challenging. For pediatric schizophrenia, symptom profiles can be variable, and for bipolar I disorder, pediatric patients may have variable patterns of periodicity of manic or mixed symptoms. It is recommended that medication therapy for pediatric schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder be initiated only after a thorough diagnostic evaluation has been performed and careful consideration given to the risks associated with medication treatment. Medication treatment for both pediatric schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder should be part of a total treatment program that often includes psychological, educational and social interventions. 1.5 Olanzapine and Fluoxetine in Combination: Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder Oral olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination is indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, based on clinical studies. When using olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination, refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax. Olanzapine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. 1.6 Olanzapine and Fluoxetine in Combination: Treatment Resistant Depression Oral olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination is indicated for the treatment of treatment resistant depression (major depressive disorder in patients who do not respond to 2 separate trials of different antidepressants of adequate dose and duration in the current episode), based on clinical studies in adult patients. Olanzapine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of treatment resistant depression. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Olanzapine tablets are an atypical antipsychotic indicated: As oral formulation for the: • Treatment of schizophrenia. ( 1.1 ) o Adults: Efficacy was established in three clinical trials in patients with schizophrenia: two 6-week trials and one maintenance trial. ( 14.1 ) o Adolescents (ages 13 to 17): Efficacy was established in one 6-‑ week trial in patients with schizophrenia ( 14.1 ). ( 1.1 ) • Acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder and maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder. ( 1.2 ) o Adults: Efficacy was established in three clinical trials in patients with manic or mixed episodes of bipolar I disorder: two 3- to 4-week trials and one maintenance trial. ( 14.2 ) o Adolescents (ages 13 to 17): Efficacy was established in one 3‑- week trial in patients with manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder ( 14.2 ). ( 1.2 ) • Medication therapy for pediatric patients with schizophrenia or bipolar I disorder should be undertaken only after a thorough diagnostic evaluation and with careful consideration of the potential risks. ( 1.3 ) • Adjunct to valproate or lithium in the treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. ( 1.2 ) o Efficacy was established in two 6-week clinical trials in adults ( 14.2 ). As Olanzapine tablets and Fluoxetine in Combination for the: • Treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. ( 1.5 ) o Efficacy was established with Symbyax (olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination); refer to the product label for Symbyax. • Treatment of treatment resistant depression. ( 1.6 ) • Efficacy was established with Symbyax (olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination) in adults; refer to the product label for Symbyax. 1.1 Schizophrenia Oral olanzapine tablets are indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. In adolescent patients with schizophrenia (ages 13 to 17), efficacy was established in one 6-week trial [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Clinicians should consider the potential long-term risks when prescribing to adolescents, and in many cases this may lead them to consider prescribing other drugs first in adolescents [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )]. 1.2 Bipolar I Disorder (Manic or Mixed Episodes) Monotherapy — Oral olanzapine tablets are indicated for the acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder and maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder. In adolescent patients with manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder (ages 13 to 17), efficacy was established in one 3-week trial [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. Adjunctive Therapy to Lithium or Valproate — Oral olanzapine tablets are indicated for the treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder as an adjunct to lithium or valproate. The effectiveness of adjunctive therapy for longer-term use has not been systematically evaluated in controlled trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. 1.5 Olanzapine Tablets and Fluoxetine in Combination: Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder Oral olanzapine tablets and fluoxetine in combination is indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, based on clinical studies. When using olanzapine tablets and fluoxetine in combination, refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax. Olanzapine tablets monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. 1.6 Olanzapine Tablets and Fluoxetine in Combination: Treatment Resistant Depression Oral olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination is indicated for the treatment of treatment resistant depression (major depressive disorder in patients who do not respond to 2 separate trials of different antidepressants of adequate dose and duration in the current episode), based on clinical studies in adult patients. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Olanzapine orally disintegrating tablets are atypical antipsychotic indicated: As oral formulation for the: Treatment of schizophrenia. ( 14.1 ) Adolescents (ages 13 to 17): Efficacy was established in one 6-week trial in patients with schizophrenia ( 14.1 ). ( 14.2 ) Adolescents (ages 13 to 17): Efficacy was established in one 3-week trial in patients with manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder ( 14.2 ). As O lanzapine and Fluoxetine in Combination for the: Treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. 1.1 Schizophrenia Olanzapine orally disintegrating tablets are indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. Clinicians should consider the potential long-term risks when prescribing to adolescents, and in many cases this may lead them to consider prescribing other drugs first in adolescents [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . 1.2 Bipolar I Disorder (Manic or Mixed Episodes) Monotherapy — Olanzapine orally disintegrating tablets are indicated for the acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder and maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder. In adolescent patients with manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder (ages 13 to 17), efficacy was established in one 3-week trial [ see Clinical Studies (14.2)] . Clinicians should consider the potential long-term risks when prescribing to adolescents, and in many cases this may lead them to consider prescribing other drugs first in adolescents [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Adjunctive Therapy to Lithium or Valproate — Olanzapine orally disintegrating tablets are indicated for the treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder as an adjunct to lithium or valproate. The effectiveness of adjunctive therapy for longer-term use has not been systematically evaluated in controlled trials [see Clinical Studies (14.2)] . 1.5 Olanzapine and Fluoxetine in Combination: Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder Olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination are indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, based on clinical studies. Olanzapine orally disintegrating tablets monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. Olanzapine orally disintegrating tablets monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of treatment resistant depression. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Olanzapine tablets are an atypical antipsychotic indicated: As oral formulation for the: Treatment of schizophrenia. ( 14.1 ) Adolescents (ages 13 to 17): Efficacy was established in one 6-­ week trial in patients with schizophrenia ( 14.1 ). ( 14.2 ) Adolescents (ages 13 to 17): Efficacy was established in one 3­- week trial in patients with manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder ( 14.2 ). As Olanzapine tablets and Fluoxetine in Combination for the: Treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Olanzapine is an atypical antipsychotic indicated: As oral formulation for the: • Treatment of schizophrenia. ( 14.1 ) Adolescents (ages 13 to 17): Efficacy was established in one 6week trial in patients with schizophrenia (14.1) . (1.1) • Acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder and maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder. ( 14.2 ) Adolescents (ages 13 to 17): Efficacy was established in one 3-week trial in patients with manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder (14.2) . (1.2) Medication therapy for pediatric patients with schizophrenia or bipolar I disorder should be undertaken only after a thorough diagnostic evaluation and with careful consideration of the potential risks. (1.3) Adjunct to valproate or lithium in the treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. As Olanzapine and Fluoxetine in Combination for the: Treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder.( 1.5 ) Efficacy was established with Symbyax (olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination); refer to the product label for Symbyax. (1.6) Efficacy was established with Symbyax (olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination) in adults; refer to the product label for Symbyax. In adolescent patients with schizophrenia (ages 13 to 17), efficacy was established in one 6-week trial [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. Clinicians should consider the potential long-term risks when prescribing to adolescents, and in many cases this may lead them to consider prescribing other drugs first in adolescents [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ]. 1.2 Bipolar I Disorder (Manic or Mixed Episodes) Monotherapy Oral olanzapine is indicated for the acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder and maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder. In adolescent patients with manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder (ages 13 to 17), efficacy was established in one 3-week trial [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ]. Adjunctive Therapy to Lithium or Valproate Oral olanzapine is indicated for the treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder as an adjunct to lithium or valproate. The effectiveness of adjunctive therapy for longer-term use has not been systematically evaluated in controlled trials [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Olanzapine monotheraphy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. In adolescent patients with schizophrenia (ages 13-17), efficacy was established in one 6-week trial [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Clinicians should consider the potential long-term risks when prescribing to adolescents, and in many cases this may lead them to consider prescribing other drugs first in adolescents [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. In adolescent patients with manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder (ages 13-17), efficacy was established in one 3-week trial [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. ( 1.1 ) • Adults: Efficacy was established in three clinical trials in patients with schizophrenia: two 6-week trials and one maintenance trial. ( 14.1 ) • Adolescents (ages 13 to 17): Efficacy was established in one 6week trial in patients with schizophrenia (14.1) . ( 1.2 ) • Adults: Efficacy was established in three clinical trials in patients with manic or mixed episodes of bipolar I disorder: two 3- to 4-week trials and one maintenance trial. ( 14.2 ) • Adolescents (ages 13 to 17): Efficacy was established in one 3-week trial in patients with manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder (14.2) . (1.2) • Medication therapy for pediatric patients with schizophrenia or bipolar I disorder should be undertaken only after a thorough diagnostic evaluation and with careful consideration of the potential risks. (1.3) • Adjunct to valproate or lithium in the treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. ( 1.2 ) • Efficacy was established in two 6-week clinical trials in adults ( 14.2 ). As Olanzapine and Fluoxetine in Combination for the: • Treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder.( 1.5 ) • Efficacy was established with Symbyax (olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination); refer to the product label for Symbyax. (1.6) • Efficacy was established with Symbyax (olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination) in adults; refer to the product label for Symbyax. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ZYPREXA RELPREVV is available only through a restricted distribution program [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . ZYPREXA RELPREVV must not be dispensed directly to a patient. For a patient to receive treatment, the prescriber, healthcare facility, patient, and pharmacy must all be enrolled in the ZYPREXA RELPREVV Patient Care Program. To enroll, call 1-877-772-9390. ZYPREXA ® RELPREVV™ is a long-acting atypical antipsychotic for intramuscular injection indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. ( 1.1 ) Efficacy was established in two clinical trials in patients with schizophrenia: one 8-week trial in adults and one maintenance trial in adults. ( 14.1 ) 1.1 Schizophrenia ZYPREXA RELPREVV is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. Efficacy was established in two clinical trials in patients with schizophrenia: one 8-week trial in adults and one maintenance trial in adults [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Olanzapine for Injection is an atypical antipsychotic indicated for the: Treatment of acute agitation associated with schizophrenia and bipolar I mania. ( 1.4 ) Efficacy was established in three 1-day trials in adults. ( 14.3 ) 1.4 Olanzapine for Injection: Agitation Associated with Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Mania Olanzapine for Injection is indicated for the treatment of acute agitation associated with schizophrenia and bipolar I mania. Efficacy was demonstrated in 3 short-term (24 hours of IM treatment) placebo-controlled trials in agitated adult inpatients with: schizophrenia or bipolar I disorder (manic or mixed episodes) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . “Psychomotor agitation” is defined in DSM-IV as “excessive motor activity associated with a feeling of inner tension.” Patients experiencing agitation often manifest behaviors that interfere with their diagnosis and care, e.g., threatening behaviors, escalating or urgently distressing behavior, or self-exhausting behavior, leading clinicians to the use of intramuscular antipsychotic medications to achieve immediate control of the agitation.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Schizophrenia in adults ( 2.1 ) Oral: Start at 5 mg to 10 mg once daily; Target: 10 mg/day within several days Schizophrenia in adolescents ( 2.1 ) Oral: Start at 2.5 mg to 5 mg once daily; Target: 10 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) in adults ( 2.2 ) Oral: Start at 10 mg or 15 mg once daily Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) in adolescents ( 2.2 ) Oral: Start at 2.5 mg to 5 mg once daily; Target: 10 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) with lithium or valproate in adults ( 2.2 ) Oral: Start at 10 mg once daily Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder in adults ( 2.5 ) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder in children and adolescents ( 2.5 ) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily Treatment Resistant Depression in adults ( 2.6 ) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily Lower starting dose recommended in debilitated or pharmacodynamically sensitive patients or patients with predisposition to hypotensive reactions, or with potential for slowed metabolism. ( 2.1 ) Olanzapine may be given without regard to meals. ( 2.1 ) Olanzapine and Fluoxetine in Combination: Dosage adjustments, if indicated, should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability. ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Olanzapine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder or treatment resistant depression. ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Safety of co-administration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in adults. ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Safety of co-administration of doses above 12 mg olanzapine with 50 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in children and adolescents ages 10 to 17. ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Schizophrenia Adults Dose Selection — Oral olanzapine should be administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 mg to 10 mg initially, with a target dose of 10 mg/day within several days. Further dosage adjustments, if indicated, should generally occur at intervals of not less than 1 week, since steady state for olanzapine would not be achieved for approximately 1 week in the typical patient. When dosage adjustments are necessary, dose increments/decrements of 5 mg QD are recommended. Efficacy in schizophrenia was demonstrated in a dose range of 10 mg/day to 15 mg/day in clinical trials. However, doses above 10 mg/day were not demonstrated to be more efficacious than the 10 mg/day dose. An increase to a dose greater than the target dose of 10 mg/day (i.e., to a dose of 15 mg/day or greater) is recommended only after clinical assessment. Olanzapine is not indicated for use in doses above 20 mg/day. Dosing in Special Populations — The recommended starting dose is 5 mg in patients who are debilitated, who have a predisposition to hypotensive reactions, who otherwise exhibit a combination of factors that may result in slower metabolism of olanzapine (e.g., nonsmoking female patients ≥65 years of age), or who may be more pharmacodynamically sensitive to olanzapine [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . When indicated, dose escalation should be performed with caution in these patients. Maintenance Treatment — The effectiveness of oral olanzapine, 10 mg/day to 20 mg/day, in maintaining treatment response in schizophrenic patients who had been stable on olanzapine for approximately 8 weeks and were then followed for relapse has been demonstrated in a placebo-controlled trial [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . The healthcare provider who elects to use olanzapine for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. Adolescents Dose Selection — Oral olanzapine should be administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals with a recommended starting dose of 2.5 mg or 5 mg, with a target dose of 10 mg/day. Efficacy in adolescents with schizophrenia was demonstrated based on a flexible dose range of 2.5 mg/day to 20 mg/day in clinical trials, with a mean modal dose of 12.5 mg/day (mean dose of 11.1 mg/day). When dosage adjustments are necessary, dose increments/decrements of 2.5 mg or 5 mg are recommended. The safety and effectiveness of doses above 20 mg/day have not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Maintenance Treatment — The efficacy of olanzapine for the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia in the adolescent population has not been systematically evaluated; however, maintenance efficacy can be extrapolated from adult data along with comparisons of olanzapine pharmacokinetic parameters in adult and adolescent patients. Thus, it is generally recommended that responding patients be continued beyond the acute response, but at the lowest dose needed to maintain remission. Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment. 2.2 Bipolar I Disorder (Manic or Mixed Episodes) Adults Dose Selection for Monotherapy — Oral olanzapine should be administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals, generally beginning with 10 mg or 15 mg. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, should generally occur at intervals of not less than 24 hours, reflecting the procedures in the placebo-controlled trials. Short-term (3-4 weeks) antimanic efficacy was demonstrated in a dose range of 5 mg to 20 mg/day in clinical trials. The safety of doses above 20 mg/day has not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . Maintenance Monotherapy — The benefit of maintaining bipolar I patients on monotherapy with oral olanzapine at a dose of 5 mg/day to 20 mg/day, after achieving a responder status for an average duration of 2 weeks, was demonstrated in a controlled trial [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . Dose Selection for Adjunctive Treatment — When administered as adjunctive treatment to lithium or valproate, oral olanzapine dosing should generally begin with 10 mg once-a-day without regard to meals. Antimanic efficacy was demonstrated in a dose range of 5 mg to 20 mg/day in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . The safety of doses above 20 mg/day has not been evaluated in clinical trials. Efficacy in adolescents with bipolar I disorder (manic or mixed episodes) was demonstrated based on a flexible dose range of 2.5 mg/day to 20 mg/day in clinical trials, with a mean modal dose of 10.7 mg/day (mean dose of 8.9 mg/day). The safety and effectiveness of doses above 20 mg/day have not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . Maintenance Treatment — The efficacy of olanzapine for the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder in the adolescent population has not been evaluated; however, maintenance efficacy can be extrapolated from adult data along with comparisons of olanzapine pharmacokinetic parameters in adult and adolescent patients. 2.3 Administration of Olanzapine Orally Disintegrating Tablets Peel back foil on blister. Do not push tablet through foil. Immediately upon opening the blister or the bottle, using dry hands, remove tablet and place entire olanzapine orally disintegrating tablet in the mouth. Tablet disintegration occurs rapidly in saliva so it can be easily swallowed with or without liquid. 2.5 Olanzapine and Fluoxetine in Combination: Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder When using olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax. Adults Oral olanzapine should be administered in combination with fluoxetine once daily in the evening, without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, can be made according to efficacy and tolerability within dose ranges of oral olanzapine 5 mg to 12.5 mg and fluoxetine 20 mg to 50 mg. Antidepressant efficacy was demonstrated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination in adult patients with a dose range of olanzapine 6 mg to 12 mg and fluoxetine 25 mg to 50 mg. Safety of co-administration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in clinical studies. Children and Adolescents (10-17 years of age) Oral olanzapine should be administered in combination with fluoxetine once daily in the evening, without regard to meals, generally beginning with 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, can be made according to efficacy and tolerability. Safety of co-administration of doses above 12 mg olanzapine with 50 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in pediatric clinical studies. Safety and efficacy of olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination was determined in clinical trials supporting approval of Symbyax (fixed dose combination of olanzapine and fluoxetine). Symbyax is dosed between 3 mg/25 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day and 12 mg/50 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day. The following table demonstrates the appropriate individual component doses of olanzapine and fluoxetine versus Symbyax. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability. Table 1: Approximate Dose Correspondence Between Symbyax a and the Combination of Olanzapine and Fluoxetine a Symbyax (olanzapine/fluoxetine HCl) is a fixed-dose combination of olanzapine and fluoxetine. For Use in Combination Symbyax Olanzapine Fluoxetine (mg/day) (mg/day) (mg/day) 3 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 5 20 12 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 5 40+10 12 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 40+10 While there is no body of evidence to answer the question of how long a patient treated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination should remain on it, it is generally accepted that bipolar I disorder, including the depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, is a chronic illness requiring chronic treatment. The healthcare provider should periodically reexamine the need for continued pharmacotherapy. Olanzapine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. 2.6 Olanzapine and Fluoxetine in Combination: Treatment Resistant Depression When using olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax. Oral olanzapine should be administered in combination with fluoxetine once daily in the evening, without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, can be made according to efficacy and tolerability within dose ranges of oral olanzapine 5 mg to 20 mg and fluoxetine 20 mg to 50 mg. Antidepressant efficacy was demonstrated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination in adult patients with a dose range of olanzapine 6 mg to 18 mg and fluoxetine 25 mg to 50 mg. Safety and efficacy of olanzapine in combination with fluoxetine was determined in clinical trials supporting approval of Symbyax (fixed dose combination of olanzapine and fluoxetine). Table 1 above demonstrates the appropriate individual component doses of olanzapine and fluoxetine versus Symbyax. While there is no body of evidence to answer the question of how long a patient treated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination should remain on it, it is generally accepted that treatment resistant depression (major depressive disorder in adult patients who do not respond to 2 separate trials of different antidepressants of adequate dose and duration in the current episode) is a chronic illness requiring chronic treatment. Olanzapine monotherapy is not indicated for treatment of treatment resistant depression (major depressive disorder in patients who do not respond to 2 antidepressants of adequate dose and duration in the current episode). 2.7 Olanzapine and Fluoxetine in Combination: Dosing in Special Populations The starting dose of oral olanzapine 2.5 mg to 5 mg with fluoxetine 20 mg should be used for patients with a predisposition to hypotensive reactions, patients with hepatic impairment, or patients who exhibit a combination of factors that may slow the metabolism of olanzapine or fluoxetine in combination (female gender, geriatric age, nonsmoking status), or those patients who may be pharmacodynamically sensitive to olanzapine. Dosing modification may be necessary in patients who exhibit a combination of factors that may slow metabolism. Olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination have not been systematically studied in patients over 65 years of age or in patients under 10 years of age [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Schizophrenia in adults (2.1) Oral: Start at 5 to 10 mg once daily; Target: 10 mg/day within several days Schizophrenia in adolescents (2.1) Oral: Start at 2.5 to 5 mg once daily; Target: 10 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) in adults (2.2) Oral: Start at 10 or 15 mg once daily Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) in adolescents (2.2) Oral: Start at 2.5 to 5 mg once daily; Target: 10 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) with lithium or valproate in adults (2.2) Oral: Start at 10 mg once daily Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder in adults (2.5) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder in children and adolescents (2.5) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily Treatment Resistant Depression in adults (2.6) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily • Lower starting dose recommended in debilitated or pharmacodynamically sensitive patients or patients with predisposition to hypotensive reactions, or with potential for slowed metabolism. ( 2.1 ) • Olanzapine may be given without regard to meals. ( 2.1 ) Olanzapine tablets and Fluoxetine in Combination: • Dosage adjustments, if indicated, should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability. ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. , 2.6 ) • Olanzapine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder or treatment resistant depression. , 2.6 ) • Safety of co-administration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in adults. , 2.6 ) • Safety of co-administration of doses above 12 mg olanzapine with 50 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in children and adolescents ages 10 to 17. ) 2.1 Schizophrenia Adults Dose Selection — Oral olanzapine should be administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 to 10 mg initially, with a target dose of 10 mg/day within several days. Efficacy in schizophrenia was demonstrated in a dose range of 10 to 15 mg/day in clinical trials. Dosing in Special Populations — The recommended starting dose is 5 mg in patients who are debilitated, who have a predisposition to hypotensive reactions, who otherwise exhibit a combination of factors that may result in slower metabolism of olanzapine (e.g., nonsmoking female patients ≥65 years of age), or who may be more pharmacodynamically sensitive to olanzapine [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. The healthcare provider who elects to use olanzapine tablets for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. Adolescents Dose Selection — Oral olanzapine should be administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals with a recommended starting dose of 2.5 or 5 mg, with a target dose of 10 mg/day. Efficacy in adolescents with schizophrenia was demonstrated based on a flexible dose range of 2.5 to 20 mg/day in clinical trials, with a mean modal dose of 12.5 mg/day (mean dose of 11.1 mg/day). When dosage adjustments are necessary, dose increments/decrements of 2.5 or 5 mg are recommended. The safety and effectiveness of doses above 20 mg/day have not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. Maintenance Treatment — The efficacy of olanzapine tablets for the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia in the adolescent population has not been systematically evaluated; however, maintenance efficacy can be extrapolated from adult data along with comparisons of olanzapine pharmacokinetic parameters in adult and adolescent patients. 2.2 Bipolar I Disorder (Manic or Mixed Episodes) Adults Dose Selection for Monotherapy — Oral olanzapine should be administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals, generally beginning with 10 or 15 mg. Short-term (3 to 4 weeks) antimanic efficacy was demonstrated in a dose range of 5 mg to 20 mg/day in clinical trials. The safety of doses above 20 mg/day has not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. Maintenance Monotherapy — The benefit of maintaining bipolar I patients on monotherapy with oral olanzapine at a dose of 5 to 20 mg/day, after achieving a responder status for an average duration of 2 weeks, was demonstrated in a controlled trial [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . Efficacy in adolescents with bipolar I disorder (manic or mixed episodes) was demonstrated based on a flexible dose range of 2.5 to 20 mg/day in clinical trials, with a mean modal dose of 10.7 mg/day (mean dose of 8.9 mg/day). The safety and effectiveness of doses above 20 mg/day have not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. Maintenance Treatment — The efficacy of olanzapine tablets for the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder in the adolescent population has not been evaluated; however, maintenance efficacy can be extrapolated from adult data along with comparisons of olanzapine pharmacokinetic parameters in adult and adolescent patients. 2.5 Olanzapine Tablets and Fluoxetine in Combination: Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder When using olanzapine tablets and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, can be made according to efficacy and tolerability within dose ranges of oral olanzapine 5 to 12.5 mg and fluoxetine 20 to 50 mg. Antidepressant efficacy was demonstrated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination in adult patients with a dose range of olanzapine 6 to 12 mg and fluoxetine 25 to 50 mg. Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years of age) Oral olanzapine should be administered in combination with fluoxetine once daily in the evening, without regard to meals, generally beginning with 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. Table 1: Approximate Dose Correspondence Between Symbyax a and the Combination of Olanzapine and Fluoxetine For Symbyax (mg/day) Use in Combination Olanzapine (mg/day) Fluoxetine (mg/day) 3 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 5 20 12 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 5 40+10 12 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 40+10 a Symbyax (olanzapine/fluoxetine HCl) is a fixed-dose combination of olanzapine and fluoxetine. While there is no body of evidence to answer the question of how long a patient treated with olanzapine tablets and fluoxetine in combination should remain on it, it is generally accepted that bipolar I disorder, including the depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, is a chronic illness requiring chronic treatment. Olanzapine tablets monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. 2.6 Olanzapine Tablets and Fluoxetine in Combination: Treatment Resistant Depression When using olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax. Dosage adjustments, if indicated, can be made according to efficacy and tolerability within dose ranges of oral olanzapine 5 to 20 mg and fluoxetine 20 to 50 mg. Antidepressant efficacy was demonstrated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination in adult patients with a dose range of olanzapine 6 to 18 mg and fluoxetine 25 to 50 mg. 2.7 Olanzapine Tablets and Fluoxetine in Combination: Dosing in Special Populations The starting dose of oral olanzapine 2.5 to 5 mg with fluoxetine 20 mg should be used for patients with a predisposition to hypotensive reactions, patients with hepatic impairment, or patients who exhibit a combination of factors that may slow the metabolism of olanzapine or fluoxetine in combination (female gender, geriatric age, nonsmoking status), or those patients who may be pharmacodynamically sensitive to olanzapine. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Schizophrenia in adults (2.1) Oral: Start at 5 to 10 mg once daily; Target: 10 mg/day within several days Schizophrenia in adolescents ( 2.1 ) Oral: Start at 2.5 to 5 mg once daily; Target: 10 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) in adults (2.2) Oral: Start at 10 or 15 mg once daily Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) in adolescents (2.2) Oral: Start at 2.5 to 5 mg once daily; Target: 10 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) with lithium or valproate in adults (2.2) Oral: Start at 10 mg once daily Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder in adults (2.5) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder in children and adolescents (2.5) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily Treatment Resistant Depression in adults ( 2.6) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily Lower starting dose recommended in debilitated or pharmacodynamically sensitive patients or patients with predisposition to hypotensive reactions, or with potential for slowed metabolism. ( 2.5, 2.6 ) Olanzapine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder or treatment resistant depression. ( 2.5, 2.6 ) Safety of co-administration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in adults. ( 2.5, 2.6 ) Safety of co-administration of doses above 12 mg olanzapine with 50 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in children and adolescents ages 10 to 17. (2.5) 2.1 Schizophrenia Adults Dose Selection — Oral olanzapine should be administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 to 10 mg initially, with a target dose of 10 mg/day within several days. Maintenance Treatment — The effectiveness of oral olanzapine, 10 mg/day to 20 mg/day, in maintaining treatment response in schizophrenic patients who had been stable on olanzapine orally disintegrating tablets for approximately 8 weeks and were then followed for relapse has been demonstrated in a placebo-controlled trial [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . The healthcare provider who elects to use olanzapine orally disintegrating tablets for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. Maintenance Treatment — The efficacy of olanzapine orally disintegrating tablets for the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia in the adolescent population has not been systematically evaluated; however, maintenance efficacy can be extrapolated from adult data along with comparisons of olanzapine pharmacokinetic parameters in adult and adolescent patients. The safety of doses above 20 mg/day has not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. Maintenance Monotherapy — The benefit of maintaining bipolar I patients on monotherapy with olanzapine orally disintegrating tablets at a dose of 5 to 20 mg/day, after achieving a responder status for an average duration of 2 weeks, was demonstrated in a controlled trial [ see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Antimanic efficacy was demonstrated in a dose range of 5 mg to 20 mg/day in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.2)] . The safety and effectiveness of doses above 20 mg/day have not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.2)] . Maintenance Treatment — The efficacy of olanzapine orally disintegrating tablets for the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder in the adolescent population has not been evaluated; however, maintenance efficacy can be extrapolated from adult data along with comparisons of olanzapine pharmacokinetic parameters in adult and adolescent patients. Immediately upon opening the blister, using dry hands, remove tablet and place entire olanzapine orally disintegrating tablet in the mouth. While there is no body of evidence to answer the question of how long a patient treated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination should remain on it, it is generally accepted that bipolar I disorder, including the depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, is a chronic illness requiring chronic treatment. Olanzapine orally disintegrating tablets monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. Olanzapine orally disintegrating tablets monotherapy is not indicated for treatment of treatment resistant depression (major depressive disorder in patients who do not respond to 2 antidepressants of adequate dose and duration in the current episode). 2.7 Olanzapine and Fluoxetine in Combination: Dosing in Special Populations The starting dose of oral olanzapine 2.5 to 5 mg with fluoxetine 20 mg should be used for patients with a predisposition to hypotensive reactions, patients with hepatic impairment, or patients who exhibit a combination of factors that may slow the metabolism of olanzapine or fluoxetine in combination (female gender, geriatric age, nonsmoking status), or those patients who may be pharmacodynamically sensitive to olanzapine. Olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination have not been systematically studied in patients over 65 years of age or in patients under 10 years of age [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) , Drug Interactions (7) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.1 Schizophrenia Adults Dose Selection — Oral olanzapine should be administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 to 10 mg initially, with a target dose of 10 mg/day within several days. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Schizophrenia in adults (2.1) Oral: Start at 5 to 10 mg once daily; Target: 10 mg/day within several days Schizophrenia in adolescents (2.1) Oral: Start at 2.5 to 5 mg once daily; Target: 10 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) in adults (2.2) Oral: Start at 10 or 15 mg once daily Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) in adolescents (2.2) Oral: Start at 2.5 to 5 mg once daily; Target: 10 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) with lithium or valproate in adults (2.2) Oral: Start at 10 mg once daily Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder in adults (2.5) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder in children and adolescents (2.5) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily Treatment Resistant Depression in adults (2.6) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily Lower starting dose recommended in debilitated or pharmacodynamically sensitive patients or patients with predisposition to hypotensive reactions, or with potential for slowed metabolism. ( 2.1 ) Olanzapine tablets and Fluoxetine in Combination: Dosage adjustments, if indicated, should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability. ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Schizophrenia Adults Dose Selection — Oral olanzapine should be administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 to 10 mg initially, with a target dose of 10 mg/day within several days. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Schizophrenia in adults (2.1) Oral: Start at 5 to 10 mg once daily;Target: 10 mg/day within several days Schizophrenia in adolescents (2.1) Oral: Start at 2.5 to 5 mg once daily;Target: 10 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) in adults (2.2) Oral: Start at 10 or 15 mg once daily Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) in adolescents (2.2) Oral: Start at 2.5 to 5 mg once daily;Target: 10 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) with lithium or valproate in adults (2.2) Oral: Start at 10 mg once daily Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder in adults ( 2.5) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder in children and adolescents (2.5) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily Treatment Resistant Depression in adults (2.6) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily Lower starting dose recommended in debilitated or pharmacodynamically sensitive patients or patients with predisposition to hypotensive reactions, or with potential for slowed metabolism. ( 2.1 ). Olanzapine may be given without regard to meals ( 2.1 ). Olanzapine and Fluoxetine in Combination: Dosage adjustments, if indicated, should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability. ( 2.5) 2.1 Schizophrenia Adults Dose Selection — Oral olanzapine should be administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 to 10 mg initially, with a target dose of 10 mg/day within several days. Further dosage adjustments, if indicated, should 4 generally occur at intervals of not less than 1 week, since steady state for olanzapine would not be achieved for approximately 1 week in the typical patient. Dosing in Special Populations — The recommended starting dose is 5 mg in patients who are debilitated, who have a predisposition to hypotensive reactions, who otherwise exhibit a combination of factors that may result in slower metabolism of olanzapine (e.g., nonsmoking female patients ≥65 years of age), or who may be more pharmacodynamically sensitive to olanzapine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) , Drug Interactions (7) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Maintenance Treatment —The effectiveness of oral olanzapine, 10 mg/day to 20 mg/day, in maintaining treatment response in schizophrenic patients who had been stable on olanzapine for approximately 8 weeks and were then followed for relapse has been demonstrated in a placebo-controlled trial [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. The safety and effectiveness of doses above 20 mg/day have not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. The safety of doses above 20 mg/day has not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Maintenance Monotherapy — The benefit of maintaining bipolar I patients on monotherapy with oral olanzapine at a dose of 5 to 20 mg/day, after achieving a responder status for an average duration of 2 weeks, was demonstrated in a controlled trial [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ]. Antimanic efficacy was demonstrated in a dose range of 5 mg to 20 mg/day in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ]. The safety and effectiveness of doses above 20 mg/day have not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ]. Table 1: Approximate Dose Correspondence Between Symbyax a and the Combination of Olanzapine and Fluoxetine Use in Combination For Symbyax (mg/day) Olanzapine (mg/day) Fluoxetine (mg/day) 3 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 5 20 12 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 5 40+10 12 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 40+10 a Symbyax (olanzapine/fluoxetine HCl) is a fixed-dose combination of olanzapine and fluoxetine. Olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination have not been systematically studied in patients over 65 years of age or in patients under < 10 years of age. [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) , Drug Interactions ( 7 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Schizophrenia in adults ( 2.1 ) Oral: Start at 5-10 mg once daily; Target: 10 mg/day within several days Schizophrenia in adolescents ( 2.1 ) Oral: Start at 2.5-5 mg once daily; Target: 10 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) in adults ( 2.2 ) Oral: Start at 10 or 15 mg once daily Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) in adolescents ( 2.2 ) Oral: Start at 2.5-5 mg once daily; Target: 10 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) with lithium or valproate in adults ( 2.2 ) Oral: Start at 10 mg once daily Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder in adults ( 2.5 ) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder in children and adolescents ( 2.5 ) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily Treatment Resistant Depression in adults ( 2.6 ) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily Lower starting dose recommended in debilitated or pharmacodynamically sensitive patients or patients with predisposition to hypotensive reactions, or with potential for slowed metabolism. Dosing in Special Populations — The recommended starting dose is 5 mg in patients who are debilitated, who have a predisposition to hypotensive reactions, who otherwise exhibit a combination of factors that may result in slower metabolism of olanzapine (e.g., nonsmoking female patients ≥65 years of age), or who may be more pharmacodynamically sensitive to olanzapine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) , Drug Interactions (7) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Maintenance Treatment — The effectiveness of oral olanzapine, 10 mg/day to 20 mg/day, in maintaining treatment response in schizophrenic patients who had been stable on olanzapine for approximately 8 weeks and were then followed for relapse has been demonstrated in a placebo-controlled trial [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . The safety and effectiveness of doses above 20 mg/day have not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Maintenance Monotherapy — The benefit of maintaining bipolar I patients on monotherapy with oral olanzapine at a dose of 5 to 20 mg/day, after achieving a responder status for an average duration of 2 weeks, was demonstrated in a controlled trial [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Antimanic efficacy was demonstrated in a dose range of 5 mg to 20 mg/day in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . The safety and effectiveness of doses above 20 mg/day have not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 2.3 Administration of olanzapine orally disintegrating tablets Immediately upon opening the bottle, using dry hands, remove tablet and place entire olanzapine orally disintegrating tablet in the mouth. 2.7 Olanzapine and Fluoxetine in Combination: Dosing in Special Populations The starting dose of oral olanzapine 2.5-5 mg with fluoxetine 20 mg should be used for patients with a predisposition to hypotensive reactions, patients with hepatic impairment, or patients who exhibit a combination of factors that may slow the metabolism of olanzapine or fluoxetine in combination (female gender, geriatric age, nonsmoking status), or those patients who may be pharmacodynamically sensitive to olanzapine. Olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination have not been systematically studied in patients over 65 years of age or in patients under 10 years of age [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) , Drug Interactions (7) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Schizophrenia in adults (2.1) Oral: Start at 5 to 10 mg once daily;Target: 10 mg/day within several days Schizophrenia in adolescents (2.1) Oral: Start at 2.5 to 5 mg once daily;Target: 10 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) in adults (2.2) Oral: Start at 10 or 15 mg once daily Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) in adolescents (2.2) Oral: Start at 2.5 to 5 mg once daily;Target: 10 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder (manic or mixed episodes) with lithium or valproate in adults (2.2) Oral: Start at 10 mg once daily Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder in adults ( 2.5) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder in children and adolescents (2.5) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily Treatment Resistant Depression in adults (2.6) Oral in combination with fluoxetine: Start at 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily • Lower starting dose recommended in debilitated or pharmacodynamically sensitive patients or patients with predisposition to hypotensive reactions, or with potential for slowed metabolism. • Olanzapine may be given without regard to meals ( 2.1 ). Olanzapine and Fluoxetine in Combination: • Dosage adjustments, if indicated, should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability. ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) • Olanzapine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder or treatment resistant depression. ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) • Safety of co-administration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in adults. ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) • Safety of co-administration of doses above 12 mg olanzapine with 50 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in children and adolescents ages 10 to 17. Table 1: Approximate Dose Correspondence Between Symbyax a and the Combination of Olanzapine and Fluoxetine Use in Combination For Symbyax(mg/day) Olanzapine (mg/day) Fluoxetine(mg/day) 3 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 5 20 12 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 5 40+10 12 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 40+10 a Symbyax (olanzapine/fluoxetine HCl) is a fixed-dose combination of olanzapine and fluoxetine. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 150 mg/2 wks, 300 mg/4 wks, 210 mg/2 wks, 405 mg/4 wks, or 300 mg/2 wks. See Table 1 for dosing recommendations. ( 2.1 ) ZYPREXA RELPREVV is intended for deep intramuscular gluteal injection only. Do not administer intravenously or subcutaneously. ( 2.1 ) Be aware that there are two ZYPREXA intramuscular formulations with different dosing schedules. ZYPREXA IntraMuscular (10 mg/vial) is a short-acting formulation and should not be confused with ZYPREXA RELPREVV. ( 2.1 ) Establish tolerability with oral olanzapine prior to initiating treatment. ( 2.1 ) ZYPREXA RELPREVV doses above 405 mg every 4 weeks or 300 mg every 2 weeks have not been evaluated in clinical trials. ( 2.1 ) Use in specific populations (including renal and hepatic impaired, and pediatric population) has not been studied. ( 2.1 ) Must be suspended using only the diluent for ZYPREXA RELPREVV provided in the convenience kit. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Dosage ZYPREXA RELPREVV is intended for deep intramuscular gluteal injection only and should not be administered intravenously or subcutaneously. Be aware that there are two ZYPREXA intramuscular formulations with different dosing schedules. Refer to the package insert for ZYPREXA IntraMuscular for more information about that product. Establish tolerability with oral olanzapine prior to initiating treatment. ZYPREXA RELPREVV should be administered by a healthcare professional every 2 to 4 weeks by deep intramuscular gluteal injection using a 19-gauge, 1.5-inch needle. Following insertion of the needle into the muscle, aspiration should be maintained for several seconds to ensure that no blood is drawn into the syringe. If any blood is aspirated into the syringe, it should be discarded and fresh drug should be prepared using a new convenience kit. The injection should be performed at a steady, continuous pressure. Do not massage the injection site. Dose Selection — The efficacy of ZYPREXA RELPREVV has been demonstrated within the range of 150 mg to 300 mg administered every 2 weeks and with 405 mg administered every 4 weeks. Dose recommendations considering oral ZYPREXA and ZYPREXA RELPREVV are shown in Table 1 . Table 1: Recommended Dosing for ZYPREXA RELPREVV Based on Correspondence to Oral ZYPREXA Doses Target Oral ZYPREXA Dose Dosing of ZYPREXA RELPREVV During the First 8 Weeks Maintenance Dose After 8 Weeks of ZYPREXA RELPREVV Treatment 10 mg/day 210 mg/2 weeks or 150 mg/2 weeks or 405 mg/4 weeks 300 mg/4 weeks 15 mg/day 300 mg/2 weeks 210 mg/2 weeks or 405 mg/4 weeks 20 mg/day 300 mg/2 weeks 300 mg/2 weeks ZYPREXA RELPREVV doses greater than 405 mg every 4 weeks or 300 mg every 2 weeks have not been evaluated in clinical trials. Post-Injection Delirium/Sedation Syndrome — During premarketing clinical studies, adverse events that presented with signs and symptoms consistent with olanzapine overdose, in particular, sedation (including coma) and/or delirium, were reported in patients following an injection of ZYPREXA RELPREVV [see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), and Overdosage ( 10.1 )] . Patients should be informed of this risk and how to recognize related symptoms [see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )] . ZYPREXA RELPREVV must be administered in a registered healthcare facility with ready access to emergency response services. After each ZYPREXA RELPREVV injection, a healthcare professional must continuously observe the patient at the healthcare facility for at least 3 hours for symptoms consistent with olanzapine overdose, including sedation (ranging from mild in severity to coma) and/or delirium (including confusion, disorientation, agitation, anxiety, and other cognitive impairment). Other symptoms noted include extrapyramidal symptoms, dysarthria, ataxia, aggression, dizziness, weakness, hypertension, and convulsion. The potential for onset of an event is greatest within the first hour. The majority of cases have occurred within the first 3 hours after injection; however, the event has occurred after 3 hours. Following the 3-hour observation period, healthcare professionals must confirm that the patient is alert, oriented, and absent of any signs and symptoms of post-injection delirium/sedation syndrome prior to being released. All patients must be accompanied to their destination upon leaving the facility. For the remainder of the day of each injection, patients should not drive or operate heavy machinery, and should be advised to be vigilant for symptoms of post-injection delirium/sedation syndrome and be able to obtain medical assistance if needed. If post-injection delirium/sedation syndrome is suspected, close medical supervision and monitoring should be instituted in a facility capable of resuscitation [see Overdosage ( 10 )] . Dosing in Specific Populations — Tolerance of oral ZYPREXA should be established prior to initiating treatment with ZYPREXA RELPREVV. The recommended starting dose is ZYPREXA RELPREVV 150 mg/4 wks in patients who are debilitated, who have a predisposition to hypotensive reactions, who otherwise exhibit a combination of factors that may result in slower metabolism of olanzapine (e.g., nonsmoking female patients ≥65 years of age), or who may be more pharmacodynamically sensitive to olanzapine. When indicated, dose escalation should be undertaken with caution in these patients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.18 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . ZYPREXA RELPREVV has not been studied in subjects under 18 years of age [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . Maintenance Treatment — Although no controlled studies have been conducted to determine how long patients should be treated with ZYPREXA RELPREVV, efficacy has been demonstrated over a period of 24 weeks in patients with stabilized schizophrenia. Additionally, oral ZYPREXA has been shown to be effective in maintenance of treatment response in schizophrenia in longer-term use. Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for continued treatment. Switching from Other Antipsychotics — There are no systematically collected data to specifically address how to switch patients with schizophrenia from other antipsychotics to ZYPREXA RELPREVV. 2.2 Instructions to Reconstitute and Administer ZYPREXA RELPREVV For deep intramuscular gluteal injection only. Not to be injected intravenously or subcutaneously. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Step 1: Preparing Materials Convenience kit includes: Single-dose vial of ZYPREXA RELPREVV powder 3-mL vial of diluent One 3-mL syringe with pre-attached 19-gauge, 1.5-inch (38 mm) Hypodermic Needle-Pro ® needle with needle protection device Two 19-gauge, 1.5-inch (38 mm) Hypodermic Needle-Pro needles with needle protection device— For obese patients, a 2-inch (50 mm), 19-gauge or larger needle (not included in convenience kit) may be used for administration. ZYPREXA RELPREVV must be suspended using only the diluent supplied in the convenience kit. It is recommended that gloves are used when reconstituting, as ZYPREXA RELPREVV may be irritating to the skin. Flush with water if contact is made with skin. See additional insert entitled "Instructions to Reconstitute and Administer ZYPREXA RELPREVV" (included) for more information regarding the safe and effective use of the Hypodermic Needle-Pro syringe and needle. Step 2: Determining Reconstitution Volume Refer to the table below to determine the amount of diluent to be added to powder for reconstitution of each vial strength. It is important to note that there is more diluent in the vial than is needed to reconstitute. Dose Vial Strength Diluent to Add 150 mg 210 mg 1.3 mL 210 mg 210 mg 1.3 mL 300 mg 300 mg 1.8 mL 405 mg 405 mg 2.3 mL Step 3: Reconstituting ZYPREXA RELPREVV Please read the Hypodermic Needle-Pro Instructions for Use before proceeding with Step 3. Failure to follow these instructions may result in a needlestick injury. Loosen the powder by lightly tapping the vial. Open the prepackaged Hypodermic Needle-Pro syringe and needle with needle protection device. Withdraw the pre-determined diluent volume ( Step 2 ) into the syringe. Inject the diluent into the powder vial. Withdraw air to equalize the pressure in the vial by pulling back slightly on the plunger in the syringe. Remove the needle from the vial, holding the vial upright to prevent any loss of material. Engage the needle safety device (refer to complete Hypodermic Needle-Pro Instructions for Use). Pad a hard surface to cushion impact ( see Figure 1 ). Tap the vial firmly and repeatedly on the surface until no powder is visible. Figure 1: Tap firmly to mix. Visually check the vial for clumps. Unsuspended powder appears as yellow, dry clumps clinging to the vial. Additional tapping may be required if large clumps remain ( see Figure 2 ). Figure 2: Check for unsuspended powder and repeat tapping if needed. Shake the vial vigorously until the suspension appears smooth and is consistent in color and texture. The suspended product will be yellow and opaque ( see Figure 3 ). Figure 3: Vigorously shake vial. If foam forms, let vial stand to allow foam to dissipate. If the product is not used right away, it should be shaken vigorously to re-suspend. Reconstituted ZYPREXA RELPREVV remains stable at room temperature for up to 24 hours in the vial. Step 4: Injecting ZYPREXA RELPREVV Before administering the injection, confirm there will be someone to accompany the patient after the 3-hour observation period. If this cannot be confirmed, do not give the injection. Refer to the table below to determine the final volume to inject. Suspension concentration is 150 mg/mL ZYPREXA RELPREVV. Dose Final Volume to Inject 150 mg 1 mL 210 mg 1.4 mL 300 mg 2 mL 405 mg 2.7 mL Attach a new safety needle to the syringe. Slowly withdraw the desired amount into the syringe. Some excess product will remain in the vial. Engage the needle safety device and remove the needle from syringe. For administration, select the 19-gauge, 1.5-inch (38 mm) Hypodermic Needle-Pro needle with needle protection device. For obese patients, a 2-inch (50 mm), 19-gauge or larger needle (not included in convenience kit) may be used. To help prevent clogging, a 19-gauge or larger needle must be used. Attach the new safety needle to the syringe prior to injection. Once the suspension has been removed from the vial, it should be injected immediately. For deep intramuscular gluteal injection only. Do not inject intravenously or subcutaneously. Select and prepare a site for injection in the gluteal area. After insertion of the needle into the muscle, aspirate for several seconds to ensure that no blood appears . If any blood is drawn into the syringe, discard the syringe and the dose and begin with a new convenience kit. The injection should be performed with steady, continuous pressure. Engage the needle safety device. Dispose of the vials, needles, and syringe appropriately after injection. The vial is for single-dose only. Figure 1 Figure 2 Figure 3 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Agitation associated with Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Mania in adults ( 2.4 ) IM: 10 mg (5 mg or 7.5 mg when clinically warranted) Assess for orthostatic hypotension prior to subsequent dosing (max. 3 doses 2-4 hrs apart) Lower starting dose recommended in debilitated or pharmacodynamically sensitive patients or patients with predisposition to hypotensive reactions. 2.4 Olanzapine for Injection: Agitation Associated with Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Mania Dose Selection for Agitated Adult Patients with Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Mania — The efficacy of intramuscular olanzapine for injection in controlling agitation in these disorders was demonstrated in a dose range of 2.5 mg to 10 mg. The recommended dose in these patients is 10 mg. A lower dose of 5 or 7.5 mg may be considered when clinical factors warrant [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . If agitation warranting additional intramuscular doses persists following the initial dose, subsequent doses up to 10 mg may be given. However, the efficacy of repeated doses of intramuscular olanzapine for injection in agitated patients has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials. Also, the safety of total daily doses greater than 30 mg, or 10 mg injections given more frequently than 2 hours after the initial dose, and 4 hours after the second dose have not been evaluated in clinical trials. Maximal dosing of intramuscular olanzapine (e.g., 3 doses of 10 mg administered 2-4 hours apart) may be associated with a substantial occurrence of significant orthostatic hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . Thus, it is recommended that patients requiring subsequent intramuscular injections be assessed for orthostatic hypotension prior to the administration of any subsequent doses of intramuscular olanzapine for injection. The administration of an additional dose to a patient with a clinically significant postural change in systolic blood pressure is not recommended. If ongoing olanzapine therapy is clinically indicated, oral olanzapine may be initiated in a range of 5-20 mg/day as soon as clinically appropriate. Intramuscular Dosing in Special Populations — A dose of 5 mg/injection should be considered for geriatric patients or when other clinical factors warrant. A lower dose of 2.5 mg/injection should be considered for patients who otherwise might be debilitated, be predisposed to hypotensive reactions, or be more pharmacodynamically sensitive to olanzapine [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Administration of Olanzapine for Injection — Olanzapine for Injection is intended for intramuscular use only. Inject slowly, deep into the muscle mass. Directions for Preparation of Olanzapine for Injection with Sterile Water for Injection — Dissolve the contents of the vial using 2.1 mL of Sterile Water for Injection to provide a solution containing approximately 5 mg/mL of olanzapine. The resulting solution should appear clear and yellow. Olanzapine for Injection reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection should be used immediately (within 1 hour) after reconstitution. Discard any unused portion. The following table provides injection volumes for delivering various doses of intramuscular olanzapine for injection reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection. Dose, mg Olanzapine Volume of Injection, mL 10 Withdraw total contents of vial 7.5 1.5 5 1 2.5 0.5 Physical Incompatibility Information — Olanzapine for Injection should be reconstituted only with Sterile Water for Injection. Olanzapine for Injection should not be combined in a syringe with diazepam injection because precipitation occurs when these products are mixed. Lorazepam injection should not be used to reconstitute Olanzapine for Injection as this combination results in a delayed reconstitution time. Olanzapine for Injection should not be combined in a syringe with haloperidol injection because the resulting low pH has been shown to degrade olanzapine over time.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None with olanzapine monotherapy. When using olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax. For specific information about the contraindications of lithium or valproate, refer to the Contraindications section of the package inserts for these other products. None with olanzapine monotherapy.( 4 ) When using olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . ( 4 ) When using olanzapine in combination with lithium or valproate, refer to the Contraindications section of the package inserts for those products. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • None with olanzapine tablets monotherapy. • When using olanzapine tablets and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax. • For specific information about the contraindications of lithium or valproate, refer to the Contraindications section of the package inserts for these other products. • None with olanzapine tablets monotherapy. ( 4 ) • When using olanzapine tablets and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax. ( 4 ) • When using olanzapine tablets in combination with lithium or valproate, refer to the Contraindications section of the package inserts for those products. None with olanzapine monotherapy. ( 4 ) When using olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . ( 4 ) When using olanzapine in combination with lithium or valproate, refer to the Contraindications section of the package inserts for those products.( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None with olanzapine tablets monotherapy. When using olanzapine tablets and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax. None with olanzapine tablets monotherapy. ( 4 ) When using olanzapine tablets and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax. ( 4 ) When using olanzapine tablets in combination with lithium or valproate, refer to the Contraindications section of the package inserts for those products. None with olanzapine monotherapy When using olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax®. (4) When using olanzapine in combination with lithium or valproate, refer to the Contraindications section of the package inserts for those products ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • None with olanzapine monotherapy. • When using olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax. • None with olanzapine monotherapy • When using olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax®. (4) • When using olanzapine in combination with lithium or valproate, refer to the Contraindications section of the package inserts for those products ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None. None.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The risks of using olanzapine in combination with other drugs have not been extensively evaluated in systematic studies. Diazepam: May potentiate orthostatic hypotension. ( 7.1 , 7.2 ) Alcohol: May potentiate orthostatic hypotension. ( 7.1 ) Carbamazepine: Increased clearance of olanzapine. ( 7.1 ) Fluvoxamine: May increase olanzapine levels. ( 7.1 ) Olanzapine and Fluoxetine in Combination: Also refer to the Drug Interactions section of the package insert for Symbyax. ( 7.1 ) CNS Acting Drugs: Caution should be used when taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs and alcohol. ( 7.2 ) Antihypertensive Agents: Enhanced antihypertensive effect. ( 7.2 ) Levodopa and Dopamine Agonists: May antagonize levodopa/dopamine agonists. ( 7.2 ) Other Concomitant Drug Therapy: When using olanzapine in combination with lithium or valproate, refer to the Drug Interactions sections of the package insert for those products. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Olanzapine Diazepam — The co-administration of diazepam with olanzapine potentiated the orthostatic hypotension observed with olanzapine [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )] . Cimetidine and Antacids — Single doses of cimetidine (800 mg) or aluminum- and magnesium-containing antacids did not affect the oral bioavailability of olanzapine. Inducers of CYP1A2 — Carbamazepine therapy (200 mg bid) causes an approximately 50% increase in the clearance of olanzapine. This increase is likely due to the fact that carbamazepine is a potent inducer of CYP1A2 activity. Higher daily doses of carbamazepine may cause an even greater increase in olanzapine clearance. Alcohol — Ethanol (45 mg/70 kg single dose) did not have an effect on olanzapine pharmacokinetics. The co-administration of alcohol (i.e., ethanol) with olanzapine potentiated the orthostatic hypotension observed with olanzapine [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )] . Inhibitors of CYP1A2 Fluvoxamine: Fluvoxamine, a CYP1A2 inhibitor, decreases the clearance of olanzapine. This results in a mean increase in olanzapine Cmax following fluvoxamine of 54% in female nonsmokers and 77% in male smokers. The mean increase in olanzapine AUC is 52% and 108%, respectively. Lower doses of olanzapine should be considered in patients receiving concomitant treatment with fluvoxamine. Inhibitors of CYP2D6 Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine (60 mg single dose or 60 mg daily dose for 8 days) causes a small (mean 16%) increase in the maximum concentration of olanzapine and a small (mean 16%) decrease in olanzapine clearance. The magnitude of the impact of this factor is small in comparison to the overall variability between individuals, and therefore dose modification is not routinely recommended. When using olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Drug Interactions section of the package insert for Symbyax. Warfarin — Warfarin (20 mg single dose) did not affect olanzapine pharmacokinetics [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )] . Inducers of CYP1A2 or Glucuronyl Transferase — Omeprazole and rifampin may cause an increase in olanzapine clearance. Charcoal — The administration of activated charcoal (1 g) reduced the Cmax and AUC of oral olanzapine by about 60%. As peak olanzapine levels are not typically obtained until about 6 hours after dosing, charcoal may be a useful treatment for olanzapine overdose. 7.2 Potential for Olanzapine to Affect Other Drugs CNS Acting Drugs — Given the primary CNS effects of olanzapine, caution should be used when olanzapine is taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs and alcohol. Antihypertensive Agents — Olanzapine, because of its potential for inducing hypotension, may enhance the effects of certain antihypertensive agents. Levodopa and Dopamine Agonists — Olanzapine may antagonize the effects of levodopa and dopamine agonists. Lithium — Multiple doses of olanzapine (10 mg for 8 days) did not influence the kinetics of lithium. Therefore, concomitant olanzapine administration does not require dosage adjustment of lithium [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.16 )] . Valproate — Olanzapine (10 mg daily for 2 weeks) did not affect the steady state plasma concentrations of valproate. Therefore, concomitant olanzapine administration does not require dosage adjustment of valproate [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.16 )] . Effect of Olanzapine on Drug Metabolizing Enzymes — In vitro studies utilizing human liver microsomes suggest that olanzapine has little potential to inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A. Thus, olanzapine is unlikely to cause clinically important drug interactions mediated by these enzymes. Imipramine — Single doses of olanzapine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of imipramine or its active metabolite desipramine. Warfarin — Single doses of olanzapine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of warfarin [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . Diazepam — Olanzapine did not influence the pharmacokinetics of diazepam or its active metabolite N-desmethyldiazepam. However, diazepam co-administered with olanzapine increased the orthostatic hypotension observed with either drug given alone [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . Alcohol — Multiple doses of olanzapine did not influence the kinetics of ethanol [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . Biperiden — Multiple doses of olanzapine did not influence the kinetics of biperiden. Theophylline — Multiple doses of olanzapine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of theophylline or its metabolites. • Diazepam: May potentiate orthostatic hypotension. ( 7.1 , 7.2 ) • Alcohol: May potentiate orthostatic hypotension. ( 7.1 ) • Carbamazepine: Increased clearance of olanzapine. ( 7.1 ) • Fluvoxamine: May increase olanzapine levels. ( 7.1 ) • Olanzapine tablets and Fluoxetine in Combination: Also refer to the Drug Interactions section of the package insert for Symbyax. ( 7.1 ) • CNS Acting Drugs: Caution should be used when taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs and alcohol. ( 7.2 ) • Antihypertensive Agents: Enhanced antihypertensive effect. ( 7.2 ) • Levodopa and Dopamine Agonists: May antagonize levodopa/dopamine agonists. ( 7.2 ) • Other Concomitant Drug Therapy: When using olanzapine in combination with lithium or valproate, refer to the Drug Interactions sections of the package insert for those products. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Olanzapine Diazepam — The co-administration of diazepam with olanzapine potentiated the orthostatic hypotension observed with olanzapine [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )]. The co-administration of alcohol (i.e., ethanol) with olanzapine potentiated the orthostatic hypotension observed with olanzapine [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )]. This results in a mean increase in olanzapine C max following fluvoxamine of 54% in female nonsmokers and 77% in male smokers. When using olanzapine tablets and fluoxetine in combination, also refer to the Drug Interactions section of the package insert for Symbyax. Warfarin — Warfarin (20 mg single dose) did not affect olanzapine pharmacokinetics [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )]. Charcoal — The administration of activated charcoal (1 g) reduced the C max and AUC of oral olanzapine by about 60%. Anticholinergic Drugs — Concomitant treatment with olanzapine and other drugs with anticholinergic activity can increase the risk for severe gastrointestinal adverse reactions related to hypomotility. Olanzapine tablets should be used with caution in patients receiving medications having anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 )] . Therefore, concomitant olanzapine administration does not require dosage adjustment of lithium [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.16 )]. Warfarin — Single doses of olanzapine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of warfarin [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. However, diazepam co-administered with olanzapine increased the orthostatic hypotension observed with either drug given alone [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Olanzapine Diazepam — The co-administration of diazepam with olanzapine potentiated the orthostatic hypotension observed with olanzapine [ see Drug Interactions (7.2) ] . The co-administration of alcohol (i.e., ethanol) with olanzapine potentiated the orthostatic hypotension observed with olanzapine [see Drug Interactions (7.2)]. Warfarin — Warfarin (20 mg single dose) did not affect olanzapine pharmacokinetics [ see Drug Interactions (7.2) ] . Olanzapine should be used with caution in patients receiving medications having anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 )] . Therefore, concomitant olanzapine administration does not require dosage adjustment of valproate [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.16 )]. Alcohol — Multiple doses of olanzapine did not influence the kinetics of ethanol [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. 7.1 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Olanzapine Diazepam — The co-administration of diazepam with olanzapine potentiated the orthostatic hypotension observed with olanzapine [ see Drug Interactions (7.2) ] . ( 7.1 ) Olanzapine tablets and Fluoxetine in Combination: Also refer to the Drug Interactions section of the package insert for Symbyax. Diazepam: May potentiate orthostatic hypotension ( 7.1, 7.2 ) Alcohol: May potentiate orthostatic hypotension ( 7.1 ) Carbamazepine: Increased clearance of olanzapine ( 7.1) Fluvoxamine: May increase olanzapine levels ( 7.1 ) Olanzapine and Fluoxetine in Combination: Also refer to the DrugInteractions section of the package insert for Symbyax. (7.1) CNS Acting Drugs: Caution should be used when taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs and alcohol ( 7.2 ) Antihypertensive Agents: Enhanced antihypertensive effect ( 7.2 ) Levodopa and Dopamine Agonists: May antagonize levodopa/dopamine agonists (7.2 ) Other Concomitant Drug Therapy: When using olanzapine in combination with lithium or valproate, refer to the Drug Interactions sections of the package insert for those products ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Olanzapine Diazepam — The co-administration of diazepam with olanzapine potentiated the orthostatic hypotension observed with olanzapine [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ]. The co-administration of alcohol (i.e., ethanol) with olanzapine potentiated the orthostatic hypotension observed with olanzapine [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ]. Inhibitors of CYP1A2 Fluvoxamine : Fluvoxamine, a CYP1A2 inhibitor, decreases the clearance of olanzapine. Inhibitors of CYP2D6 Fluoxetine : Fluoxetine (60 mg single dose or 60 mg daily dose for 8 days) causes a small (mean 16%) increase in the maximum concentration of olanzapine and a small (mean 16%) decrease in olanzapine clearance. Warfarin — Warfarin (20 mg single dose) did not affect olanzapine pharmacokinetics [see Drug Interactions (7.2 ) ]. Inducers of CYP1A2 or Glucuronyl Transferase — Omeprazole and rifampin, may cause an increase in olanzapine clearance. Olanzapine should be used with caution in patients receiving medications having anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ) ]. Therefore, concomitant olanzapine administration does not require dosage adjustment of lithium. [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16) ]. Valproate —Olanzapine (10 mg daily for 2 weeks) did not affect the steady state plasma concentrations of valproate. Therefore, concomitant olanzapine administration does not require dosage adjustment of valproate. Warfarin — Single doses of olanzapine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of warfarin [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. However, diazepam co-administered with olanzapine increased the orthostatic hypotension observed with either drug given alone. [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. Alcohol — Multiple doses of olanzapine did not influence the kinetics of ethanol [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. ( 7.2 ) Levodopa and Dopamine Agonists: May antagonize levodopa/ dopamine agonists. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Olanzapine Diazepam — The co-administration of diazepam with olanzapine potentiated the orthostatic hypotension observed with olanzapine [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ]. Warfarin — Warfarin (20 mg single dose) did not affect olanzapine pharmacokinetics [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ] . Olanzapine should be used with caution in patients receiving medications having anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) ] . Therefore, concomitant olanzapine administration does not require dosage adjustment of lithium [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16) ]. Therefore, concomitant olanzapine administration does not require dosage adjustment of valproate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16) ] . Warfarin — Single doses of olanzapine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of warfarin [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . However, diazepam co-administered with olanzapine increased the orthostatic hypotension observed with either drug given alone [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. Alcohol — Multiple doses of olanzapine did not influence the kinetics of ethanol [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . 7.1 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Olanzapine Diazepam — The co-administration of diazepam with olanzapine potentiated the orthostatic hypotension observed with olanzapine [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ]. • Diazepam: May potentiate orthostatic hypotension ( 7.1, 7.2 ) • Alcohol: May potentiate orthostatic hypotension ( 7.1 ) • Carbamazepine: Increased clearance of olanzapine ( 7.1) • Fluvoxamine: May increase olanzapine levels ( 7.1 ) • Olanzapine and Fluoxetine in Combination: Also refer to the DrugInteractions section of the package insert for Symbyax. (7.1) • CNS Acting Drugs: Caution should be used when taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs and alcohol ( 7.2 ) • Antihypertensive Agents: Enhanced antihypertensive effect ( 7.2 ) • Levodopa and Dopamine Agonists: May antagonize levodopa/dopamine agonists (7.2 ) • Other Concomitant Drug Therapy: When using olanzapine in combination with lithium or valproate, refer to the Drug Interactions sections of the package insert for those products ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Olanzapine Diazepam — The co-administration of diazepam with olanzapine potentiated the orthostatic hypotension observed with olanzapine [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CNS Acting Drugs: Caution should be used when used in combination with other centrally acting drugs and alcohol. ( 7.2 ) Diazepam: May potentiate orthostatic hypotension. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Olanzapine Diazepam — The co-administration of diazepam with olanzapine potentiated the orthostatic hypotension observed with olanzapine [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )] . Inhibitors of CYP1A2 — Fluvoxamine, a CYP1A2 inhibitor, decreases the clearance of olanzapine. Inhibitors of CYP2D6 — Fluoxetine caused a small decrease in olanzapine clearance leading to a minimal change in olanzapine steady-state concentrations and, therefore dose modification is not routinely recommended. Inducers of CYP1A2 or Glucuronyl Transferase Enzymes — Omeprazole and rifampin may cause an increase in olanzapine clearance. ZYPREXA RELPREVV should be used with caution in patients receiving medications having anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.16 )] . Lorazepam (IM) — Co-administration of lorazepam does not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of olanzapine, unconjugated lorazepam, or total lorazepam. However, this co-administration of lorazepam with olanzapine potentiated the somnolence observed with either drug alone. Valproate — Olanzapine (10 mg daily for 2 weeks) did not affect the steady-state plasma concentrations of valproate. ( 7.2 ) Lorazepam (IM): Increased somnolence with IM olanzapine. Lorazepam (IM) — Administration of intramuscular lorazepam (2 mg) 1 hour after intramuscular olanzapine for injection (5 mg) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of olanzapine, unconjugated lorazepam, or total lorazepam. However, this co-administration of intramuscular lorazepam and intramuscular olanzapine for injection added to the somnolence observed with either drug alone [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] .

=== VERAPAMIL HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Verapamil Hydrochloride Tablets are indicated for the treatment of the following: Angina 1. Angina at rest including: – Vasospastic (Prinzmetal’s variant) angina – Unstable (crescendo, pre-infarction) angina 2. Chronic stable angina (classic effort-associated angina) Arrhythmias 1. In association with digitalis for the control of ventricular rate at rest and during stress in patients with chronic atrial flutter and/or atrial fibrillation (see WARNINGS; Accessory bypass tract ) 2. Prophylaxis of repetitive paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia Essential hypertension: Verapamil is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes, including this drug. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Verapamil Hydrochloride Injection, USP is indicated for the following: • Rapid conversion to sinus rhythm of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardias, including those associated with accessory bypass tracts (Wolff-Parkinson-White [W-P-W] and Lown-Ganong- Levine [L-G-L] syndromes). When clinically advisable, appropriate vagal maneuvers (e.g., Valsalva maneuver) should be attempted prior to verapamil hydrochloride administration. • Temporary control of rapid ventricular rate in atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation except when the atrial flutter and/or atrial fibrillation are associated with accessory bypass tracts (Wolff-Parkinson-White (W-P-W) and Lown-Ganong-Levine (L-G-L) syndromes). In controlled studies in the United States, about 60% of patients with supraventricular tachycardia converted to normal sinus rhythm within 10 minutes after intravenous verapamil hydrochloride. Uncontrolled studies reported in the world literature describe a conversion rate of about 80%. About 70% of patients with atrial flutter and/or fibrillation with a faster ventricular rate respond with a decrease in ventricular rate of at least 20%. Conversion of atrial flutter or fibrillation to sinus rhythm is uncommon (about 10%) after verapamil hydrochloride and may reflect the spontaneous conversion rate, since the conversion rate after placebo was similar. Slowing of the ventricular rate in patients with atrial fibrillation/flutter lasts 30 to 60 minutes after a single injection. Because a small fraction (<1%) of patients treated with verapamil hydrochloride respond with life-threatening adverse responses (rapid ventricular rate in atrial flutter/fibrillation, and an accessory bypass tract, marked hypotension, or extreme bradycardia/asystole – see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ), the initial use of verapamil hydrochloride injection should, if possible, be in a treatment setting with monitoring and resuscitation facilities, including D.C.-cardioversion capability (see ADVERSE REACTIONS , Suggested Treatment of Acute Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions). As familiarity with the patient’s response is gained, use in an office setting may be acceptable. Cardioversion has been used safely and effectively after verapamil hydrochloride injection. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Verapamil hydrochloride sustained-release capsules are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including this drug. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Verapamil hydrochloride extended-release tablets is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program's Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Verapamil Hydrochloride Injection, USP is indicated for the following: Rapid conversion to sinus rhythm of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardias, including those associated with accessory bypass tracts (Wolff-Parkinson-White [W-P-W] and Lown-Ganong- Levine [L-G-L] syndromes). Temporary control of rapid ventricular rate in atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation except when the atrial flutter and/or atrial fibrillation are associated with accessory bypass tracts (Wolff-Parkinson- White (W-P-W) and Lown-Ganong-Levine (L-G-L) syndromes). As familiarity with the patient's response is gained, use in an office setting may be acceptable. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Verapamil Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules (PM) for oral use is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Verapamil Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules (PM) is a calcium channel blocker indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. ( 1 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Verapamil hydrochloride extended-release tablets USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Because a small fraction (<1%) of patients treated with verapamil hydrochloride respond with life-threatening adverse responses (rapid ventricular rate in atrial flutter/fibrillation, and an accessory bypass tract, marked hypotension, or extreme bradycardia/asystole − see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ), the initial use of verapamil hydrochloride injection should, if possible, be in a treatment setting with monitoring and resuscitation facilities, including D.C.-cardioversion capability (see ADVERSE REACTIONS , Suggested Treatment of Acute Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Verapamil Hydrochloride Injection, USP is indicated for the following: Rapid conversion to sinus rhythm of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardias, including those associated with accessory bypass tracts (Wolff-Parkinson-White [W-P-W] and Lown-Ganong-Levine [L-G-L] syndromes). Temporary control of rapid ventricular rate in atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation except when the atrial flutter and/or atrial fibrillation are associated with accessory bypass tracts (Wolff-Parkinson-White (W-P-W) and Lown-Ganong-Levine (L-G-L) syndromes). Because a small fraction (<1%) of patients treated with verapamil hydrochloride respond with life-threatening adverse responses (rapid ventricular rate in atrial flutter/fibrillation, and an accessory bypass tract, marked hypotension, or extreme bradycardia/asystole - see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ), the initial use of verapamil hydrochloride injection should, if possible, be in a treatment setting with monitoring and resuscitation facilities , including D.C.-cardioversion capability ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS , Suggested Treatment of Acute Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions).
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of verapamil must be individualized by titration. The usefulness and safety of dosages exceeding 480 mg/day have not been established; therefore, this daily dosage should not be exceeded. Since the half-life of verapamil increases during chronic dosing, maximum response may be delayed. Angina: Clinical trials show that the usual dose is 80 mg to 120 mg three times a day. However, 40 mg three times a day may be warranted in patients who may have an increased response to verapamil (e.g., decreased hepatic function, elderly, etc.). Upward titration should be based on therapeutic efficacy and safety evaluated approximately eight hours after dosing. Dosage may be increased at daily (e.g., patients with unstable angina) or weekly intervals until optimum clinical response is obtained. Arrhythmias: The dosage in digitalized patients with chronic atrial fibrillation (see PRECAUTIONS ) ranges from 240 to 320 mg/day in divided (three times a day or four times a day) doses. The dosage for prophylaxis of PSVT (non-digitalized patients) ranges from 240 to 480 mg/day in divided (three times a day or four times a day) doses. In general, maximum effects for any given dosage will be apparent during the first 48 hours of therapy. Essential hypertension: Dose should be individualized by titration. The usual initial monotherapy dose in clinical trials was 80 mg three times a day (240 mg/day). Daily dosages of 360 and 480 mg have been used but there is no evidence that dosages beyond 360 mg provided added effect. Consideration should be given to beginning titration at 40 mg three times per day in patients who might respond to lower doses, such as the elderly or people of small stature. The antihypertensive effects of verapamil are evident within the first week of therapy. Upward titration should be based on therapeutic efficacy, assessed at the end of the dosing interval. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (For Intravenous Use Only) VERAPAMIL HYDROCHLORIDE INJECTION SHOULD BE GIVEN AS A SLOW INTRAVENOUS INJECTION OVER AT LEAST A TWO-MINUTE PERIOD OF TIME UNDER CONTINUOUS ELECTROCARDIOGRAPHIC (ECG) AND BLOOD PRESSURE MONITORING. The recommended intravenous doses of verapamil hydrochloride injection are as follows: Adult: Initial dose − 5 to 10 mg (0.075 to 0.15 mg/kg body weight) given as an intravenous bolus over at least 2 minutes. Repeat dose - 10 mg (0.15 mg/kg body weight) 30 minutes after the first dose if the initial response is not adequate. An optimal interval for subsequent I.V. doses has not been determined, and should be individualized for each patient. Older patients - The dose should be administered over at least 3 minutes to minimize the risk of untoward drug effects. Pediatric: Initial dose: 0 to 1 year: 0.1 to 0.2 mg/kg body weight (usual single dose range: 0.75 to 2 mg) should be administered as an intravenous bolus over at least 2 minutes under continuous ECG monitoring. 1 to 15 years: 0.1 to 0.3 mg/kg body weight (usual single dose range: 2 to 5 mg) should be administered as an intravenous bolus over at least 2 minutes. Do not exceed 5 mg. Repeat dose: 0 to 1 year: 0.1 to 0.2 mg/kg body weight (usual single dose range: 0.75 to 2 mg) 30 minutes after the first dose if the initial response is not adequate ( under continuous ECG monitoring ). 1 to 15 years: 0.1 to 0.3 mg/kg body weight (usual single dose range: 2 to 5 mg) 30 minutes after the first dose if the initial response is not adequate. Do not exceed 10 mg as a single dose. Note: Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Use only if solution is clear and vial seal is intact. Unused amount of solution should be discarded immediately following withdrawal of any portion of contents. For stability reasons this product is not recommended for dilution with Sodium Lactate Injection, USP in polyvinyl chloride bags. Verapamil is physically compatible and chemically stable for at least 24 hours at 25°C protected from light in most common large volume parenteral solutions. Admixing verapamil hydrochloride injection with albumin, amphotericin B, hydralazine hydrochloride and trimethoprim with sulfamethoxazole should be avoided. Verapamil hydrochloride injection will precipitate in any solution with a pH above 6.0. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Essential Hypertension The dose of verapamil hydrochloride sustained-release capsules should be individualized by titration. The usual daily dose of sustained-release verapamil, verapamil hydrochloride sustained-release capsules, in clinical trials has been 240 mg given by mouth once daily in the morning. However, initial doses of 120 mg a day may be warranted in patients who may have an increased response to verapamil (e.g., elderly, small people, etc.). Upward titration should be based on therapeutic efficacy and safety evaluated approximately 24 hours after dosing. The antihypertensive effects of verapamil hydrochloride sustained-release capsules are evident within the first week of therapy. If adequate response is not obtained with 120 mg of verapamil hydrochloride sustained-release capsules, the dose may be titrated upward in the following manner: (a) 180 mg in the morning. (b) 240 mg in the morning. (c) 360 mg in the morning. (d) 480 mg in the morning. Verapamil hydrochloride sustained-release capsules are for once-a-day administration. When switching from immediate-release verapamil to verapamil hydrochloride sustained-release capsules, the same total daily dose of verapamil hydrochloride sustained-release capsules can be used. As with immediate-release verapamil, dosages of verapamil hydrochloride sustained-release capsules should be individualized and titration may be needed in some patients. Sprinkling the Capsule Contents on Food Verapamil hydrochloride sustained-release capsules may also be administered by carefully opening the capsule and sprinkling the pellets on a spoonful of applesauce. The applesauce should be swallowed immediately without chewing and followed with a glass of cool water to ensure complete swallowing of the pellets. The applesauce used should not be hot, and it should be soft enough to be swallowed without chewing. Any pellet/applesauce mixture should be used immediately and not stored for future use. Subdividing the contents of a verapamil hydrochloride sustained-release capsule is not recommended. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Essential hypertension: The dose of verapamil hydrochloride extended-release tablets should be individualized by titration and the drug should be administered with food. Initiate therapy with 180 mg of sustained-release verapamil HCl, verapamil hydrochloride extended-release tablets, given in the morning. Lower initial doses of 120 mg a day may be warranted in patients who may have an increased response to verapamil (eg, the elderly or small people). Upward titration should be based on therapeutic efficacy and safety evaluated weekly and approximately 24 hours after the previous dose. The antihypertensive effects of verapamil hydrochloride extended-release tablets are evident within the first week of therapy. If adequate response is not obtained with 180 mg of verapamil hydrochloride extended-release tablets, the dose may be titrated upward in the following manner: a) 240 mg each morning, b) 180 mg each morning plus 180 mg each evening; or 240 mg each morning plus 120 mg each evening, c) 240 mg every 12 hours When switching from immediate-release verapamil hydrochloride tablets to verapamil hydrochloride extended-release tablets, the total daily dose in milligrams may remain the same. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY. VERAPAMIL HYDROCHLORIDE INJECTION SHOULD BE GIVEN AS A SLOW INTRAVENOUS INJECTION OVER AT LEAST A TWO-MINUTE PERIOD OF TIME UNDER CONTINUOUS ELECTROCARDIOGRAPHIC (ECG) AND BLOOD PRESSURE MONITORING. The recommended intravenous doses of verapamil hydrochloride injection are as follows: Adult Initial dose – 5 to 10 mg (0.075 to 0.15 mg/kg body weight) given as an intravenous bolus over at least 2 minutes. Repeat dose – 10 mg (0.15 mg/kg body weight) 30 minutes after the first dose if the initial response is not adequate. An optimal interval for subsequent intravenous doses has not been determined, and should be individualized for each patient. Older patients – The dose should be administered over at least 3 minutes to minimize the risk of untoward drug effects. Pediatric Initial dose 0 to 1 year: 0.1 to 0.2 mg/kg body weight (usual single dose range: 0.75 to 2 mg) should be administered as an intravenous bolus over at least 2 minutes under continuous ECG monitoring. Repeat dose 0 to 1 year: 0.1 to 0.2 mg/kg body weight (usual single dose range: 0.75 to 2 mg) 30 minutes after the first dose if the initial response is not adequate (under continuous ECG monitoring) . Do not exceed 10 mg as a single dose . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION THE CONTENTS OF THE Verapamil Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules (PM) CAPSULE SHOULD NOT BE CRUSHED OR CHEWED. Verapamil Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules (PM) CAPSULES ARE TO BE SWALLOWED WHOLE OR THE ENTIRE CONTENTS OF THE CAPSULE SPRINKLED ONTO APPLESAUCE. Do not crush or chew capsule contents; swallow capsule whole or sprinkle entire contents onto applesauce ( 2.2 , 17 ) Usual dosage: 200 mg once daily at bedtime; if inadequate response, titrate upward to 300 mg, then 400 mg once daily at bedtime ( 2.1 ) Initial dose of 100 mg once daily at bedtime in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, elderly or low-weight patients ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Essential Hypertension Administer Verapamil Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules (PM) once daily at bedtime. Clinical trials studied doses of 100 mg, 200 mg, 300 mg, and 400 mg. The usual daily dose of extended-release Verapamil Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules (PM) in clinical trials has been 200 mg given by mouth once daily at bedtime. In rare instances, initial doses of 100 mg a day may be warranted in patients who have an increased response to verapamil [e.g. patients with impaired renal function, impaired hepatic function, elderly, low-weight patients, etc. ( see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 , 8.6 , 8.7 ) )]. Base upward titration on therapeutic efficacy and safety evaluated approximately 24 hours after dosing. The antihypertensive effects of Verapamil Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules (PM) are evident within the first week of therapy. If an adequate response is not obtained with 200 mg of Verapamil Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules (PM), the dose may be titrated upward in the following manner: a) 300 mg each evening b) 400 mg each evening (2 × 200 mg) When Verapamil Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules (PM) is administered at bedtime, office evaluation of blood pressure during morning and early afternoon hours is essentially a measure of peak effect. The usual evaluation of trough effect, which sometimes might be needed to evaluate the appropriateness of any given dose of Verapamil Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules (PM), would be just prior to bedtime. 2.2 Sprinkling the Capsule Contents on Food Verapamil Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules (PM) capsules may also be administered by carefully opening the capsule and sprinkling the pellets onto one tablespoonful of applesauce. Swallow the applesauce immediately without chewing and follow with a glass of cool water to ensure complete swallowing of the pellets. The applesauce used should not be hot and it should be soft enough to be swallowed without chewing. Use any pellet/applesauce mixture immediately and do not store for future use. Absorption of the pellets sprinkled onto other foods has not been tested. This method of administration may be beneficial for patients who have difficulty swallowing whole capsules. Subdividing the contents of a Verapamil Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules (PM) capsule is not recommended. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Essential hypertension The dose of verapamil hydrochloride extended-release tablets USP should be individualized by titration and the drug should be administered with food. Lower initial doses of 120 mg a day may be warranted in patients who may have an increased response to verapamil (e.g., the elderly or small people). If adequate response is not obtained with 180 mg of verapamil hydrochloride extended-release tablets, the dose may be titrated upward in the following manner: 1. 240 mg each morning, 2. 180 mg each morning plus 180 mg each evening; or 240 mg each morning plus 120 mg each evening, 3. 240 mg every twelve hours. When switching from immediate-release verapamil hydrochloride tablets to verapamil hydrochloride extended-release tablets, the total daily dose in milligrams may remain the same. Repeat dose − 10 mg (0.15 mg/kg body weight) 30 minutes after the first dose if the initial response is not adequate. Older patients − The dose should be administered over at least 3 minutes to minimize the risk of untoward drug effects. Pediatric: Initial dose: 0 to 1 year: 0.1 to 0.2 mg/kg body weight (usual single dose range: 0.75 to 2 mg) should be administered as an intravenous bolus over at least 2 minutes under continuous ECG monitoring . Do not exceed 5 mg . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Essential hypertension The dose of verapamil hydrochloride extended-release tablets should be individualized by titration and the drug should be administered with food. If adequate response is not obtained with 180 mg of verapamil hydrochloride extended-release tablets, the dose may be titrated upward in the following manner: a) 240 mg each morning, b) 180 mg each morning plus 180 mg each evening; or 240 mg each morning plus 120 mg each evening, c) 240 mg every 12 hours. The recommended intravenous doses of verapamil hydrochloride injection are as follows: Adult : Initial dose - 5 to 10 mg (0.075 to 0.15 mg/kg body weight) given as an intravenous bolus over at least 2 minutes. Pediatric : Initial dose : 0 to 1 year : 0.1 to 0.2 mg/kg body weight (usual single dose range: 0.75 to 2 mg) should be administered as an intravenous bolus over at least 2 minutes under continuous ECG monitoring . 1 to 15 years : 0.1 to 0.3 mg/kg body weight (usual single dose range: 2 to 5 mg) should be administered as an intravenous bolus over at least 2 minutes. Repeat dose : 0 to 1 year : 0.1 to 0.2 mg/kg body weight (usual single dose range: 0.75 to 2 mg) 30 minutes after the first dose if the initial response is not adequate ( under continuous ECG monitoring ). 1 to 15 years : 0.1 to 0.3 mg/kg body weight (usual single dose range: 2 to 5 mg) 30 minutes after the first dose if the initial response is not adequate. Note : Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Admixing verapamil hydrochloride injection with albumin, amphoteric in B, hydralazine hydrochloride and trimethoprim with sulfamethoxazole should be avoided.
Warnings: WARNINGS Heart failure: Verapamil has a negative inotropic effect, which in most patients is compensated by its afterload reduction (decreased systemic vascular resistance) properties without a net impairment of ventricular performance. In clinical experience with 4,954 patients, 87 (1.8%) developed congestive heart failure or pulmonary edema. Verapamil should be avoided in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction (e.g., ejection fraction less than 30%) or moderate to severe symptoms of cardiac failure and in patients with any degree of ventricular dysfunction if they are receiving a beta-adrenergic blocker (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Patients with milder ventricular dysfunction should, if possible, be controlled with optimum doses of digitalis and/or diuretics before verapamil treatment. ( Note interactions with digoxin under PRECAUTIONS .) Hypotension: Occasionally, the pharmacologic action of verapamil may produce a decrease in blood pressure below normal levels, which may result in dizziness or symptomatic hypotension. The incidence of hypotension observed in 4,954 patients enrolled in clinical trials was 2.5%. In hypertensive patients, decreases in blood pressure below normal are unusual. Tilt-table testing (60 degrees) was not able to induce orthostatic hypotension. Elevated liver enzymes: Elevations of transaminases with and without concomitant elevations in alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin have been reported. Such elevations have sometimes been transient and may disappear even with continued verapamil treatment. Several cases of hepatocellular injury related to verapamil have been proven by rechallenge; half of these had clinical symptoms (malaise, fever, and/or right upper quadrant pain), in addition to elevation of SGOT, SGPT, and alkaline phosphatase. Periodic monitoring of liver function in patients receiving verapamil is therefore prudent. Accessory bypass tract (Wolff-Parkinson-White or Lown-Ganong-Levine): Some patients with paroxysmal and/or chronic atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter and a coexisting accessory AV pathway have developed increased antegrade conduction across the accessory pathway bypassing the AV node, producing a very rapid ventricular response or ventricular fibrillation after receiving intravenous verapamil (or digitalis). Although a risk of this occurring with oral verapamil has not been established, such patients receiving oral verapamil may be at risk and its use in these patients is contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Treatment is usually DC-cardioversion. Cardioversion has been used safely and effectively after oral verapamil hydrochloride. Atrioventricular block: The effect of verapamil on AV conduction and the SA node may cause asymptomatic first-degree AV block and transient bradycardia, sometimes accompanied by nodal escape rhythms. PR-interval prolongation is correlated with verapamil plasma concentrations especially during the early titration phase of therapy. Higher degrees of AV block, however, were infrequently (0.8%) observed. Marked first-degree block or progressive development to second-or third-degree AV block requires a reduction in dosage or, in rare instances, discontinuation of verapamil hydrochloride and institution of appropriate therapy, depending on the clinical situation. Patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (IHSS): In 120 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (most of them refractory or intolerant to propranolol) who received therapy with verapamil at doses up to 720 mg/day, a variety of serious adverse effects were seen. Three patients died in pulmonary edema; all had severe left ventricular outflow obstruction and a past history of left ventricular dysfunction. Eight other patients had pulmonary edema and/or severe hypotension; abnormally high (greater than 20 mm Hg) pulmonary wedge pressure and a marked left ventricular outflow obstruction were present in most of these patients. Concomitant administration of quinidine (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug interactions ) preceded the severe hypotension in 3 of the 8 patients (2 of whom developed pulmonary edema). Sinus bradycardia occurred in 11% of the patients, second-degree AV block in 4%, and sinus arrest in 2%. It must be appreciated that this group of patients had a serious disease with a high mortality rate. Most adverse effects responded well to dose reduction, and only rarely did verapamil use have to be discontinued. WARNINGS VERAPAMIL HYDROCHLORIDE SHOULD BE GIVEN AS A SLOW INTRAVENOUS INJECTION OVER AT LEAST A TWO-MINUTE PERIOD OF TIME ( see Dosage And Administration ). Hypotension: Verapamil hydrochloride injection often produces a decrease in blood pressure below baseline levels that is usually transient and asymptomatic but may result in dizziness. Systolic pressure less than 90 mm Hg and/or diastolic pressure less than 60 mm Hg was seen in 5% to 10% of patients in controlled U.S. trials in supraventricular tachycardia and in about 10% of the patients with atrial flutter/fibrillation. The incidence of symptomatic hypotension observed in studies conducted in the U.S. was approximately 1.5%. Three of the five symptomatic patients required intravenous pharmacologic treatment (norepinephrine bitartrate, metaraminol bitartrate, or 10% calcium gluconate). All recovered without sequelae. Extreme Bradycardia/Asystole: Verapamil hydrochloride affects the AV and SA nodes and rarely may produce second- or third-degree AV block, bradycardia, and, in extreme cases, asystole. This is more likely to occur in patients with a sick sinus syndrome (SA nodal disease), which is more common in older patients. Bradycardia associated with sick sinus syndrome was reported in 0.3% of the patients treated in controlled double-blind trials in the U.S. The total incidence of bradycardia (ventricular rate less than 60 beats/min) was 1.2% in these studies. Asystole in patients other than those with sick sinus syndrome is usually of short duration (few seconds or less), with spontaneous return to AV nodal or normal sinus rhythm. If this does not occur promptly, appropriate treatment should be initiated immediately. (See Adverse Reactions and Suggested Treatment of Acute Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions .) Heart Failure: When heart failure is not severe or rate related, it should be controlled with digitalis glycosides and diuretics, as appropriate, before verapamil is used. In patients with moderately severe to severe cardiac dysfunction (pulmonary wedge pressure above 20 mm Hg, ejection fraction less than 30%), acute worsening of heart failure may be seen. Concomitant Antiarrhythmic Therapy: Digitalis: Verapamil hydrochloride injection has been used concomitantly with digitalis preparations without the occurrence of serious adverse effects. However, since both drugs slow AV conduction, patients should be monitored for AV block or excessive bradycardia. Procainamide: Verapamil hydrochloride injection has been administered to a small number of patients receiving oral procainamide without the occurrence of serious adverse effects. Quinidine: Verapamil hydrochloride injection has been administered to a small number of patients receiving oral quinidine without the occurrence of serious adverse effects. However, three patients have been described in whom the combination resulted in an exaggerated hypotensive response presumably from the combined ability of both drugs to antagonize the effects of catecholamines on α-adrenergic receptors. Caution should therefore be used when employing this combination of drugs. Beta-Adrenergic Blocking Drugs: Verapamil hydrochloride injection has been administered to patients receiving oral beta-blockers without the development of serious adverse effects. However, since both drugs may depress myocardial contractility and AV conduction, the possibility of detrimental interactions should be considered. The concomitant administration of intravenous beta-blockers and intravenous verapamil has resulted in serious adverse reactions (see Contraindications ), especially in patients with severe cardiomyopathy, congestive heart failure, or recent myocardial infarction. Disopyramide: Until data on possible interactions between verapamil and all forms of disopyramide phosphate are obtained, disopyramide should not be administered within 48 hours before or 24 hours after verapamil administration. Flecainide: A study in healthy volunteers showed that the concomitant administration of flecainide and verapamil may have additive effects reducing myocardial contractility, prolonging AV conduction, and prolonging repolarization. Heart Block: Verapamil prolongs AV conduction time. While high-degree AV block has not been observed in controlled clinical trials in the United States, a low percentage (less than 0.5%) has been reported in the world literature. Development of second- or third-degree AV block or unifascicular, bifascicular, or trifascicular bundle branch block requires reduction in subsequent doses or discontinuation of verapamil and institution of appropriate therapy, if needed. (See Adverse Reactions , Suggested Treatment of Acute Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions.) Hepatic and Renal Failure: Significant hepatic and renal failure should not increase the effects of a single intravenous dose of verapamil hydrochloride but may prolong its duration. Repeated injections of verapamil hydrochloride injection in such patients may lead to accumulation and an excessive pharmacologic effect of the drug. There is no experience to guide use of multiple doses in such patients, and this generally should be avoided. If repeated injections are essential, blood pressure and PR interval should be closely monitored and smaller repeat doses should be utilized. Verapamil cannot be removed by hemodialysis. Premature Ventricular Contractions: During conversion to normal sinus rhythm, or marked reduction in ventricular rate, a few benign complexes of unusual appearance (sometimes resembling premature ventricular contractions) may be seen after treatment with verapamil hydrochloride. Similar complexes are seen during spontaneous conversion of supraventricular tachycardias, after D.C.-cardioversion and other pharmacologic therapy. These complexes appear to have no clinical significance. Duchenne’s Muscular Dystrophy: Verapamil hydrochloride injection can precipitate respiratory muscle failure in these patients and should, therefore, be used with caution. Increased Intracranial Pressure: Verapamil hydrochloride injection has been seen to increase intracranial pressure in patients with supratentorial tumors at the time of anesthesia induction. Caution should be taken and appropriate monitoring performed. WARNINGS Heart Failure Verapamil has a negative inotropic effect which, in most patients, is compensated by its afterload reduction (decreased systemic vascular resistance) properties without a net impairment of ventricular performance. Verapamil should be avoided in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction (e.g., ejection fraction less than 30% or moderate to severe symptoms of cardiac failure) and in patients with any degree of ventricular dysfunction if they are receiving a beta-adrenergic blocker. (See DRUG INTERACTIONS . ) Patients with milder ventricular dysfunction should, if possible, be controlled with optimum doses of digitalis and/or diuretics before verapamil treatment (note interactions with digoxin under: PRECAUTIONS ). Hypotension Occasionally, the pharmacologic action of verapamil may produce a decrease in blood pressure below normal levels which may result in dizziness or symptomatic hypotension. Tilt table testing (60 degrees) was not able to induce orthostatic hypotension. Elevated Liver Enzymes Elevations of transaminases with and without concomitant elevations in alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin have been reported. Such elevations have sometimes been transient and may disappear even in the face of continued verapamil treatment. Several cases of hepatocellular injury related to verapamil have been proven by rechallenge; half of these had clinical symptoms (malaise, fever, and/or right upper quadrant pain) in addition to elevations of SGOT, SGPT and alkaline phosphatase. Accessory Bypass Tract (Wolff-Parkinson-White or Lown-Ganong-Levine) Some patients with paroxysmal and/or chronic atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation and a coexisting accessory AV pathway have developed increased antegrade conduction across the accessory pathway bypassing the AV node, producing a very rapid ventricular response or ventricular fibrillation after receiving intravenous verapamil (or digitalis). Although a risk of this occurring with oral verapamil has not been established, such patients receiving oral verapamil may be at risk and its use in these patients is contraindicated. (See CONTRAINDICATIONS . ) Treatment is usually DC-cardioversion. Cardioversion has been used safely and effectively after oral verapamil. Atrioventricular Block The effect of verapamil on AV conduction and the SA node may lead to asymptomatic first-degree AV block and transient bradycardia, sometimes accompanied by nodal escape rhythms. PR interval prolongation is correlated with verapamil plasma concentrations, especially during the early titration phase of therapy. Marked first-degree block or progressive development to second- or third-degree AV block requires a reduction in dosage or, in rare instances, discontinuation of verapamil HCl and institution of appropriate therapy depending upon the clinical situation. Patients with Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy (IHSS) In 120 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (most of them refractory or intolerant to propranolol) who received therapy with verapamil at doses up to 720 mg/day, a variety of serious adverse effects were seen. Eight other patients had pulmonary edema and/or severe hypotension; abnormally high (over 20 mm Hg) capillary wedge pressure and a marked left ventricular outflow obstruction were present in most of these patients. Concomitant administration of quinidine (see Drug Interactions ) preceded the severe hypotension in 3 of the 8 patients (2 of whom developed pulmonary edema). Sinus bradycardia occurred in 11% of the patients, second-degree AV block in 4% and sinus arrest in 2%. Most adverse effects responded well to dose reduction and only rarely did verapamil have to be discontinued. Verapamil should be avoided in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction (eg, ejection fraction less than 30%) or moderate to severe symptoms of cardiac failure and in patients with any degree of ventricular dysfunction if they are receiving a beta-adrenergic blocker (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug interactions ). (Note interactions with digoxin under PRECAUTIONS ) Hypotension: Occasionally, the pharmacologic action of verapamil may produce a decrease in blood pressure below normal levels, which may result in dizziness or symptomatic hypotension. Several cases of hepatocellular injury related to verapamil have been proven by rechallenge; half of these had clinical symptoms (malaise, fever, and/or right upper quadrant pain) in addition to elevation of SGOT, SGPT, and alkaline phosphatase. Cardioversion has been used safely and effectively after oral verapamil hydrochloride tablets. PR-interval prolongation is correlated with verapamil plasma concentrations, especially during the early titration phase of therapy. Marked first-degree block or progressive development to second- or third-degree AV block, requires a reduction in dosage or, in rare instances, discontinuation of verapamil HCl and institution of appropriate therapy, depending upon the clinical situation. WARNINGS VERAPAMIL HYDROCHLORIDE SHOULD BE GIVEN AS A SLOW INTRAVENOUS INJECTION OVER AT LEAST A TWO-MINUTE PERIOD OF TIME (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Hypotension Verapamil hydrochloride injection often produces a decrease in blood pressure below baseline levels that is usually transient and asymptomatic but may result in dizziness. Extreme Bradycardia/Asystole Verapamil hydrochloride affects the AV and SA nodes and rarely may produce second- or third-degree AV block, bradycardia, and, in extreme cases, asystole. Bradycardia associated with sick sinus syndrome was reported in 0.3% of the patients treated in controlled double- blind trials in the U.S. (See ADVERSE REACTIONS and Suggested Treatment of Acute Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions ). Heart Failure When heart failure is not severe or rate related, it should be controlled with digitalis glycosides and diuretics, as appropriate, before verapamil is used. Concomitant Antiarrhythmic Therapy Digitalis Verapamil hydrochloride injection has been used concomitantly with digitalis preparations without the occurrence of serious adverse effects. Procainamide Verapamil hydrochloride injection has been administered to a small number of patients receiving oral procainamide without the occurrence of serious adverse effects. Quinidine Verapamil hydrochloride injection has been administered to a small number of patients receiving oral quinidine without the occurrence of serious adverse effects. Beta-Adrenergic Blocking Drugs Verapamil hydrochloride injection has been administered to patients receiving oral beta-blockers without the development of serious adverse effects. Disopyramide Until data on possible interactions between verapamil and all forms of disopyramide phosphate are obtained, disopyramide should not be administered within 48 hours before or 24 hours after verapamil administration. Flecainide A study in healthy volunteers showed that the concomitant administration of flecainide and verapamil may have additive effects reducing myocardial contractility, prolonging AV conduction, and prolonging repolarization. Heart Block Verapamil prolongs AV conduction time. (See ADVERSE REACTIONS , Suggested Treatment of Acute Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions ). Hepatic and Renal Failure Significant hepatic and renal failure should not increase the effects of a single intravenous dose of verapamil hydrochloride but may prolong its duration. Premature Ventricular Contractions During conversion to normal sinus rhythm, or marked reduction in ventricular rate, a few benign complexes of unusual appearance (sometimes resembling premature ventricular contractions) may be seen after treatment with verapamil hydrochloride. Duchenne's Muscular Dystrophy Verapamil hydrochloride injection can precipitate respiratory muscle failure in these patients and should, therefore, be used with caution. Increased Intracranial Pressure Verapamil hydrochloride injection has been seen to increase intracranial pressure in patients with supratentorial tumors at the time of anesthesia induction. Patients with milder ventricular dysfunction should, if possible, be controlled with optimum doses of digitalis and/or diuretics before verapamil treatment ( Note interactions with digoxin under PRECAUTIONS ). Hypotension: Occasionally, the pharmacologic action of verapamil may produce a decrease in blood pressure below normal levels which may result in dizziness or symptomatic hypotension. PR-interval prolongation is correlated with verapamil plasma concentrations, especially during the early titration phases of therapy. Marked first-degree block or progressive development to second-or third-degree AV block requires a reduction in dosage or, in rare instances, discontinuation of verapamil hydrochloride and institution of appropriate therapy, depending upon the clinical situation. Eight other patients had pulmonary edema and/or severe hypotension; abnormally high (greater than 20 mmHg) pulmonary wedge pressure and a marked left ventricular outflow obstruction were present in most of these patients. (See ADVERSE REACTIONS , Suggested Treatment of Acute Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions .) Hepatic and Renal Failure: Significant hepatic and renal failure should not increase the effects of a single intravenous dose of verapamil hydrochloride but may prolong its duration. Duchenne's Muscular Dystrophy: Verapamil hydrochloride injection can precipitate respiratory muscle failure in these patients and should, therefore, be used with caution. WARNINGS Heart failure Verapamil has a negative inotropic effect, which in most patients is compensated by its afterload reduction (decreased systemic vascular resistance) properties without a net impairment of ventricular performance. Verapamil should be avoided in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction (eg, ejection fraction less than 30%) or moderate to severe symptoms of cardiac failure and in patients with any degree of ventricular dysfunction if they are receiving a beta-adrenergic blocker (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug interactions ). (Note interactions with digoxin under PRECAUTIONS) Hypotension Occasionally, the pharmacologic action of verapamil may produce a decrease in blood pressure below normal levels, which may result in dizziness or symptomatic hypotension. Accessory bypass tract (Wolff-Parkinson-White or Lown-Ganong-Levine) Some patients with paroxysmal and/or chronic atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter and a coexisting accessory AV pathway have developed increased antegrade conduction across the accessory pathway bypassing the AV node, producing a very rapid ventricular response or ventricular fibrillation after receiving intravenous verapamil (or digitalis). Atrioventricular block The effect of verapamil on AV conduction and the SA node may cause asymptomatic first-degree AV block and transient bradycardia, sometimes accompanied by nodal escape rhythms. Hypotension : Verapamil hydrochloride injection often produces a decrease in blood pressure below baseline levels that is usually transient and asymptomatic but may result in dizziness. Extreme Bradycardia/Asystole : Verapamil hydrochloride affects the AV and SA nodes and rarely may produce second- or third-degree AV block, bradycardia, and, in extreme cases, asystole. (See ADVERSE REACTIONS and Suggested Treatment of Acute Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions .) Heart Failure : When heart failure is not severe or rate related, it should be controlled with digitalis glycosides and diuretics, as appropriate, before verapamil is used. Concomitant Antiarrhythmic Therapy: Digitalis : Verapamil hydrochloride injection has been used concomitantly with digitalis preparations without the occurrence of serious adverse effects. Procainamide : Intravenous verapamil has been administered to a small number of patients receiving oral procainamide without the occurrence of serious adverse effects. Quinidine : Intravenous verapamil has been administered to a small number of patients receiving oral quinidine without the occurrence of serious adverse effects. However, three patients have been described in whom the combination resulted in an exaggerated hypotensive response presumably from the combined ability of both drugs to antagonize the effects of catecholamines on α- adrenergic receptors. Beta-Adrenergic Blocking Drugs : Verapamil hydrochloride injection has been administered to patients receiving oral beta-blockers without the development of serious adverse effects. Disopyramide : Until data on possible interactions between verapamil and all forms of disopyramide phosphate are obtained, disopyramide should not be administered within 48 hours before or 24 hours after verapamil administration. Flecainide : A study in healthy volunteers showed that the concomitant administration of flecainide and verapamil may have additive effects reducing myocardial contractility, prolonging AV conduction, and prolonging repolarization. Heart Block : Verapamil prolongs AV conduction time. (See ADVERSE REACTIONS , Suggested Treatment of Acute Cardiovascular Adverse Reactions .) Hepatic and Renal Failure : Significant hepatic and renal failure should not increase the effects of a single intravenous dose of verapamil hydrochloride but may prolong its duration. Premature Ventricular Contractions : During conversion to normal sinus rhythm, or marked reduction in ventricular rate, a few benign complexes of unusual appearance (sometimes resembling premature ventricular contractions) may be seen after treatment with verapamil hydrochloride. Duchenne's Muscular Dystrophy : Verapamil hydrochloride injection can precipitate respiratory muscle failure in these patients and should, therefore, be used with caution. Increased Intracranial Pressure : Verapamil hydrochloride injection has been seen to increase intracranial pressure in patients with supratentorial tumors at the time of anesthesia induction.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Verapamil Hydrochloride Tablets are contraindicated in: 1. Severe left ventricular dysfunction (see WARNINGS ) 2. Hypotension (systolic pressure less than 90 mm Hg) or cardiogenic shock 3. Sick sinus syndrome (except in patients with a functioning artificial ventricular pacemaker) 4. Second-or-third-degree AV block (except in patients with a functioning artificial ventricular pacemaker) 5. Patients with atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation and an accessory bypass tract (e.g., Wolff-Parkinson-White, Lown-Ganong-Levine syndromes) (see WARNINGS ) 6. Patients with known hypersensitivity to verapamil hydrochloride. CONTRAINDICATIONS Verapamil hydrochloride injection is contraindicated in: 1. Severe hypotension or cardiogenic shock. 2. Second- or third-degree AV block (except in patients with a functioning artificial ventricular pacemaker). 3. Sick sinus syndrome (except in patients with a functioning artificial ventricular pacemaker). 4. Severe congestive heart failure (unless secondary to a supraventricular tachycardia amenable to verapamil therapy). 5. Patients receiving intravenous beta-adrenergic blocking drugs (e.g., propranolol). Intravenous verapamil and intravenous beta-adrenergic blocking drugs should not be administered in close proximity to each other (within a few hours), since both may have a depressant effect on myocardial contractility and AV conduction. 6. Patients with atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation and an accessory bypass tract (e.g., Wolff- Parkinson-White, Lown-Ganong-Levine syndromes) are at risk to develop ventricular tachyarrhythmia including ventricular fibrillation if verapamil is administered. Therefore, the use of verapamil in these patients is contraindicated. 7. Ventricular tachycardia: Administration of intravenous verapamil to patients with wide-complex ventricular tachycardia (QRS ≥ 0.12 sec) can result in marked hemodynamic deterioration and ventricular fibrillation. Proper pretherapy diagnosis and differentiation from wide-complex supraventricular tachycardia is imperative in the emergency room setting. 8. Known hypersensitivity to verapamil hydrochloride. CONTRAINDICATIONS Verapamil HCl is contraindicated in: Severe left ventricular dysfunction. (See WARNINGS . ) Hypotension (less than 90 mm Hg systolic pressure) or cardiogenic shock. Patients with atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation and an accessory bypass tract (e.g., Wolff-Parkinson-White, Lown-Ganong-Levine syndromes). ) Patients with known hypersensitivity to verapamil hydrochloride. CONTRAINDICATIONS Verapamil HCl extended-release tablets are contraindicated in: 1.Severe left ventricular dysfunction (see WARNINGS ) 2.Hypotension (systolic pressure less than 90 mm Hg) or cardiogenic shock 3.Sick sinus syndrome (except in patients with a functioning artificial ventricular pacemaker) 4.Second- or third-degree AV block (except in patients with a functioning artificial ventricular pacemaker) 5.Patients with atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation and an accessory bypass tract (eg, Wolff-Parkinson-White, Lown-Ganong-Levine syndromes) (see WARNINGS ) 6.Patients with known hypersensitivity to verapamil hydrochloride CONTRAINDICATIONS Verapamil hydrochloride injection is contraindicated in: Severe hypotension or cardiogenic shock. Patients with atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation and an accessory bypass tract (e.g., Wolff-Parkinson- White, Lown-Ganong-Levine syndromes) are at risk to develop ventricular tachyarrhythmia including ventricular fibrillation if verapamil is administered. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Verapamil is contraindicated in: Severe left ventricular dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Hypotension (less than 90 mm Hg systolic pressure) or cardiogenic shock. Patients with atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation and an accessory bypass tract (e.g., Wolff-Parkinson-White, Lown-Ganong-Levine syndromes) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . • Severe left ventricular dysfunction ( 4 ) • Hypotension (<90 mmHg systolic pressure) or cardiogenic shock ( 4 ) • Sick sinus syndrome (except in patients with pacemaker) ( 4 ) • 2nd- or 3rd-degree AV block (except in patients with pacemaker) ( 4 ) • Atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation and an accessory bypass tract ( 4 ) Hypotension (systolic pressure less than 90 mmHg) or cardiogenic shock 3. Second-or third-degree AV block (except in patients with a functioning artificial ventricular pacemaker). (see WARNINGS ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Verapamil HCl tablets are contraindicated in: Severe left ventricular dysfunction (see WARNINGS ) Hypotension (systolic pressure less than 90 mm Hg) or cardiogenic shock Sick sinus syndrome (except in patients with a functioning artificial ventricular pacemaker) Second- or third-degree AV block (except in patients with a functioning artificial ventricular pacemaker) Patients with atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation and an accessory bypass tract (eg, Wolff-Parkinson-White, Lown-Ganong-Levine syndromes) (see WARNINGS ) Patients with known hypersensitivity to verapamil hydrochloride
Interactions (label): Drug interactions Cytochrome inducers/inhibitors: In vitro metabolic studies indicate that verapamil is metabolized by cytochrome P450 CYP3A4, CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, and CYP2C18. Clinically significant interactions have been reported with inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., erythromycin, ritonavir) causing elevation of plasma levels of verapamil while inducers of CYP3A4 (e.g., rifampin) have caused a lowering of plasma levels of verapamil. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: The use of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are CYP3A4 substrates in combination with verapamil has been associated with reports of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis. Coadministration of multiple doses of 10 mg of verapamil with 80 mg simvastatin resulted in exposure to simvastatin 2.5-fold that following simvastatin alone. Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on verapamil to 10 mg daily. Limit the daily dose of lovastatin to 40 mg. Lower starting and maintenance doses of other CYP3A4 substrates (e.g., atorvastatin) may be required as verapamil may increase the plasma concentration of these drugs. Aspirin: In a few reported cases, co-administration of verapamil with aspirin has led to increased bleeding times greater than observed with aspirin alone. Grapefruit juice: Grapefruit juice may increase plasma levels of verapamil. Alcohol: Verapamil may increase blood alcohol concentrations and prolong its effects. Beta-blockers: Controlled studies in small numbers of patients suggest that the concomitant use of verapamil hydrochloride and oral beta-adrenergic blocking agents may be beneficial in certain patients with chronic stable angina or hypertension, but available information is not sufficient to predict with confidence the effects of concurrent treatment in patients with left ventricular dysfunction or cardiac conduction abnormalities. Concomitant therapy with beta-adrenergic blockers and verapamil may result in additive negative effects on heart rate, atrioventricular conduction and/or cardiac contractility. In one study involving 15 patients treated with high doses of propranolol (median dose: 480 mg/day; range: 160 to 1,280 mg/day) for severe angina, with preserved left ventricular function (ejection fraction greater than 35%), the hemodynamic effects of additional therapy with verapamil hydrochloride were assessed using invasive methods. The addition of verapamil to high-dose beta-blockers induced modest negative inotropic and chronotropic effects that were not severe enough to limit short-term (48 hours) combination therapy in this study. These modest cardiodepressant effects persisted for greater than 6 but less than 30 hours after abrupt withdrawal of beta-blockers and were closely related to plasma levels of propranolol. The primary verapamil/beta-blocker interaction in this study appeared to be hemodynamic rather than electrophysiologic. In other studies, verapamil did not generally induce significant negative inotropic, chronotropic, or dromotropic effects in patients with preserved left ventricular function receiving low or moderate doses of propranolol (less than or equal to 320 mg/day); in some patients, however, combined therapy did produce such effects. Therefore, if combined therapy is used, close surveillance of clinical status should be carried out. Combined therapy should usually be avoided in patients with atrioventricular conduction abnormalities and those with depressed left ventricular function. Asymptomatic bradycardia (36 beats/min) with a wandering atrial pacemaker has been observed in a patient receiving concomitant timolol (a beta-adrenergic blocker) eyedrops and oral verapamil. A decrease in metoprolol and propranolol clearance has been observed when either drug is administered concomitantly with verapamil. A variable effect has been seen when verapamil and atenolol were given together. Digitalis: Clinical use of verapamil in digitalized patients has shown the combination to be well tolerated if digoxin doses are properly adjusted. However, chronic verapamil treatment can increase serum digoxin levels by 50% to 75% during the first week of therapy, and this can result in digitalis toxicity. In patients with hepatic cirrhosis, the influence of verapamil on digoxin kinetics is magnified. Verapamil may reduce total body clearance and extrarenal clearance of digitoxin by 27% and 29%, respectively. Maintenance and digitalization doses should be reduced when verapamil is administered, and the patient should be reassessed to avoid over- or under-digitalization. Whenever over-digitalization is suspected, the daily dose of digitalis should be reduced or temporarily discontinued. On discontinuation of verapamil hydrochloride use, the patient should be reassessed to avoid under-digitalization. Antihypertensive agents: Verapamil administered concomitantly with oral antihypertensive agents (e.g., vasodilators, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, diuretics, beta-blockers) will usually have an additive effect on lowering blood pressure. Patients receiving these combinations should be appropriately monitored. Concomitant use of agents that attenuate alpha-adrenergic function with verapamil may result in a reduction in blood pressure that is excessive in some patients. Such an effect was observed in one study following the concomitant administration of verapamil and prazosin. Antiarrhythmic agents: Disopyramide: Until data on possible interactions between verapamil and disopyramide are obtained, disopyramide should not be administered within 48 hours before or 24 hours after verapamil administration. Flecainide: A study in healthy volunteers showed that the concomitant administration of flecainide and verapamil may have additive effects on myocardial contractility, AV conduction, and repolarization. Concomitant therapy with flecainide and verapamil may result in additive negative inotropic effect and prolongation of atrioventricular conduction. Quinidine: In a small number of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (IHSS), concomitant use of verapamil and quinidine resulted in significant hypotension. Until further data are obtained, combined therapy of verapamil and quinidine in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy should probably be avoided. The electrophysiologic effects of quinidine and verapamil on AV conduction were studied in 8 patients. Verapamil significantly counteracted the effects of quinidine on AV conduction. There has been a report of increased quinidine levels during verapamil therapy. Other agents: Nitrates: Verapamil has been given concomitantly with short- and long-acting nitrates without any undesirable drug interactions. The pharmacologic profile of both drugs and the clinical experience suggest beneficial interactions. Cimetidine: The interaction between cimetidine and chronically administered verapamil has not been studied. Variable results on clearance have been obtained in acute studies of healthy volunteers; clearance of verapamil was either reduced or unchanged. Lithium: Increased sensitivity to the effects of lithium (neurotoxicity) has been reported during concomitant verapamil-lithium therapy; lithium levels have been observed sometimes to increase, sometimes to decrease, and sometimes to be unchanged. Patients receiving both drugs must be monitored carefully. Carbamazepine: Verapamil therapy may increase carbamazepine concentrations during combined therapy. This may produce carbamazepine side effects such as diplopia, headache, ataxia, or dizziness. Rifampin: Therapy with rifampin may markedly reduce oral verapamil bioavailability. Phenobarbital: Phenobarbital therapy may increase verapamil clearance. Cyclosporine: Verapamil therapy may increase serum levels of cyclosporine. Theophylline: Verapamil may inhibit the clearance and increase the plasma levels of theophylline. Inhalation anesthetics: Animal experiments have shown that inhalation anesthetics depress cardiovascular activity by decreasing the inward movement of calcium ions. When used concomitantly, inhalation anesthetics and calcium antagonists, such as verapamil, should each be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression. Neuromuscular blocking agents: Clinical data and animal studies suggest that verapamil may potentiate the activity of neuromuscular blocking agents (curare-like and depolarizing). It may be necessary to decrease the dose of verapamil and/or the dose of the neuromuscular blocking agent when the drugs are used concomitantly. Telithromycin: Hypotension and bradyarrhythmias have been observed in patients receiving concurrent telithromycin, an antibiotic in the ketolide class. Clonidine: Sinus bradycardia resulting in hospitalization and pacemaker insertion has been reported in association with the use of clonidine concurrently with verapamil. Monitor heart rate in patients receiving concomitant verapamil and clonidine. Drug Interactions: (See Warnings: Concomitant Antiarrhythmic Therapy .) Verapamil hydrochloride injection has been used concomitantly with other cardioactive drugs (especially digitalis) without evidence of serious negative drug interactions. In rare instances, including when patients with severe cardiomyopathy, congestive heart failure, or recent myocardial infarction were given intravenous beta adrenergic blocking agents or disopyramide concomitantly with intravenous verapamil, serious adverse effects have occurred. Concomitant use of verapamil hydrochloride with β-adrenergic blockers may result in an exaggerated hypotensive response. Such an effect was observed in one study, following the concomitant administration of verapamil and prazosin. It may be necessary to decrease the dose of verapamil and/or dose of the neuromuscular blocking agent when the drugs are used concomitantly. As verapamil is highly bound to plasma proteins, it should be administered with caution to patients receiving other highly protein-bound drugs. Drug Interactions: Effects of other drugs on verapamil pharmacokinetics In vitro metabolic studies indicate that verapamil is metabolized by cytochrome P450, CYP3A4, CYP1A2, and CYP2C. Hypotension, bradyarrhythmias, and lactic acidosis have been observed in patients receiving concurrent telithromycin, an antibiotic in the ketolide class of antibiotics. Ivabradine Concurrent use of verapamil increases exposure to ivabradine and may exacerbate bradycardia and conduction disturbances. Avoid concomitant use of ivabradine and verapamil. HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors The use of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are CYP3A4 substrates in combination with verapamil has been associated with reports of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis. Co-administration of multiple doses of 10 mg of verapamil with 80 mg simvastatin resulted in exposure to simvastatin 2.5-fold that following simvastatin alone. Beta Blockers Concomitant therapy with beta-adrenergic blockers and verapamil may result in additive negative effects on heart rate, atrioventricular conduction, and/or cardiac contractility. The combination of sustained-release verapamil and beta-adrenergic blocking agents has not been studied. However, there have been reports of excess bradycardia and AV block, including complete heart block, when the combination has been used for the treatment of hypertension. For hypertensive patients, the risk of combined therapy may outweigh the potential benefits. The combination should be used only with caution and close monitoring. A decrease in metoprolol clearance has been reported when verapamil and metoprolol were administered together. A similar effect has not been observed when verapamil and atenolol are given together. Clonidine Sinus bradycardia resulting in hospitalization and pacemaker insertion has been reported in association with the use of clonidine concurrently with verapamil. Digitalis Consider reducing digoxin dose when verapamil and digoxin are to be given together. Monitor digoxin level periodically during therapy. Chronic verapamil treatment can increase serum digoxin levels by 50% to 75% during the first week of therapy, and this can result in digitalis toxicity. In patients with hepatic cirrhosis the influence of verapamil on digoxin pharmacokinetics is magnified. Verapamil may reduce total body clearance and extrarenal clearance of digoxin by 27% and 29%, respectively. If digoxin toxicity is suspected, suspend or discontinue digoxin therapy. In previous clinical trials with other verapamil formulations related to the control of ventricular response in patients taking digoxin who had atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter, ventricular rates below 50/min at rest occurred in 15% of patients, and asymptomatic hypotension occurred in 5% of patients. Antihypertensive Agents Verapamil administered concomitantly with oral antihypertensive agents (e.g., vasodilators, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, diuretics, beta blockers) will usually have an additive effect on lowering blood pressure. Concomitant use of agents that attenuate alpha-adrenergic function with verapamil may result in reduction in blood pressure that is excessive in some patients. Antiarrhythmic Agents Disopyramide: Until data on possible interactions between verapamil and disopyramide phosphate are obtained, disopyramide should not be administered within 48 hours before or 24 hours after verapamil administration. The electrophysiological effects of quinidine and verapamil on AV conduction were studied in 8 patients. Nitrates: Verapamil has been given concomitantly with short- and long-acting nitrates without any undesirable drug interactions. Alcohol: Verapamil has been found to significantly inhibit ethanol elimination resulting in elevated blood ethanol concentrations that may prolong the intoxicating effects of alcohol. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY - Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism. ) Ivabradine: Concurrent use of verapamil increases exposure to ivabradine and may exacerbate bradycardia and conduction disturbances. Avoid co-administration of verapamil and ivabradine. Beta-blockers: Concomitant therapy with beta-adrenergic blockers and verapamil may result in additive negative effects on heart rate, atrioventricular conduction and/or cardiac contractility. However, there have been reports of excessive bradycardia and AV block, including complete heart block, when the combination has been used for the treatment of hypertension. For hypertensive patients, the risks of combined therapy may outweigh the potential benefits. In patients with hepatic cirrhosis the influence of verapamil on digoxin kinetics is magnified. Maintenance and digitalization doses should be reduced when verapamil is administered, and the patient should be carefully monitored to avoid over- or under- digitalization. On discontinuation of verapamil hydrochloride tablets use, the patient should be reassessed to avoid under-digitalization. Antihypertensive agents: Verapamil administered concomitantly with oral antihypertensive agents (eg, vasodilators, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, diuretics, beta-blockers) will usually have an additive effect on lowering blood pressure. Antiarrhythmic agents: Disopyramide: Until data on possible interactions between verapamil and disopyramide phosphate are obtained, disopyramide should not be administered within 48 hours before or 24 hours after verapamil administration. Flecainide : A study in healthy volunteers showed that the concomitant administration of flecainide and verapamil may have additive effects on myocardial contractility, AV conduction, and repolarization. Other agents: Alcohol: Verapamil has been found to inhibit ethanol elimination significantly, resulting in elevated blood ethanol concentrations that may prolong the intoxicating effects of alcohol (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics and metabolism ). Cyclosporin: Verapamil therapy may increase serum levels of cyclosporine. Mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors: In a study of 25 healthy volunteers with co-administration of verapamil with sirolimus, whole blood sirolimus C max and AUC were increased 130% and 120%, respectively. Plasma S-(-) verapamil C max and AUC were both increased 50%. Co-administration of verapamil with everolimus in 16 healthy volunteers increased the C max and AUC of everolimus by 130% and 250%, respectively. With concomitant use of mTOR inhibitors (e.g., sirolimus, temsirolimus, and everolimus) and verapamil, consider appropriate dose reductions of both medications. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP3A4 inhibitors increase verapamil levels ( 7.1 ) CYP3A4 inducers decrease verapamil levels ( 7.1 ) If simvastatin is co-administered with verapamil, do not exceed doses greater than 10 mg daily of simvastatin ( 7.2 ) If lovastatin is co-administered with verapamil, do not exceed doses greater than 40 mg daily of lovastatin ( 7.2 ) Grapefruit juice may significantly increase verapamil levels ( 7.3 ) Beta blockers: reports of excess bradycardia and AV block, including complete heart block; monitor closely ( 7.4 ) Digoxin levels can increase by 50 to 75%; reduce digoxin dose ( 7.5 ) Alcohol elimination inhibited resulting in elevated ethanol levels ( 7.6 ) 7.1 CYP3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers In vitro metabolic studies indicate that verapamil is metabolized by cytochrome P450, CYP3A4, CYP1A2, and CYP2C. Clinically significant interactions have been reported with inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., erythromycin, ritonavir) causing elevation of plasma levels of verapamil. Inducers of CYP3A4 (e.g., rifampin) have caused a lowering of plasma levels of verapamil. Ivabradine Concurrent use of verapamil increases exposure to ivabradine and may exacerbate bradycardia and conductions disturbances. 7.2 HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors The use of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are CYP3A4 substrates in combination with verapamil has been associated with reports of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis. 7.3 Grapefruit Juice Grapefruit juice may significantly increase concentrations of verapamil. Grapefruit juice given to nine healthy volunteers increased S- and R- verapamil AUC 0-12 by 36% and 28%, respectively. Steady state C max and C min of S-verapamil increased by 57% and 16.7%, respectively with grapefruit juice compared to control. Similarly, C max and C min of R-verapamil increased by 40% and 13%, respectively. Grapefruit juice did not affect half-life, nor was there a significant change in AUC 0-12 ratio R/S compared to control. Grapefruit juice did not cause a significant difference in the pharmacokinetics of norverapamil. This increase in verapamil plasma concentration is not expected to have any clinical consequences. 7.4 Beta Blockers Concomitant therapy with beta-adrenergic blockers and verapamil may result in additive negative effects on heart rate, atrioventricular conduction, and/or cardiac contractility. The combination of extended-release verapamil and beta-adrenergic blocking agents has not been studied. 7.5 Digitalis Consider reducing digoxin dose when verapamil and digoxin are to be given together. 7.6 Alcohol Verapamil has been found to significantly inhibit ethanol elimination resulting in elevated blood ethanol concentrations that may prolong the intoxicating effects of alcohol. 7.7 Clonidine Sinus bradycardia resulting in hospitalization and pacemaker insertion has been reported in association with the use of clonidine concurrently with verapamil. 7.8 Telithromycin Hypotension and bradyarrhythmias have been observed in patients receiving concurrent telithromycin, an antibiotic in the ketolide class of antibiotics. 7.9 Antineoplastic Agents Verapamil can increase doxorubicin levels. The absorption of verapamil can be reduced by the cyclophosphamide, oncovin, procarbazine, prednisone (COPP) and the vindesine, adriamycin, cisplatin (VAC) cytotoxic drug regimens. Concomitant administration of R verapamil can decrease the clearance of paclitaxel. 7.10 Quinidine In a small number of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, concomitant use of verapamil and quinidine resulted in significant hypotension. Until further data are obtained, avoid combined therapy of verapamil and quinidine in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. 7.11 Aspirin In a few reported cases, coadministration of verapamil with aspirin has led to increased bleeding times greater than observed with aspirin alone. 7.12 Antihypertensive Agents Verapamil administered concomitantly with oral antihypertensive agents (e.g., vasodilators, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, diuretics, beta blockers) will usually have an additive effect on lowering blood pressure. Monitor patients receiving these combinations appropriately. 7.13 Disopyramide Until data on possible interactions between verapamil and disopyramide are obtained, do not administer disopyramide within 48 hours before or 24 hours after verapamil administration. 7.14 Flecainide A study in healthy volunteers showed that the concomitant administration of flecainide and verapamil may have additive effects on myocardial contractility, AV conduction, and repolarization. 7.15 Carbamazepine Verapamil therapy may increase carbamazepine concentrations during combined therapy. 7.16 Cyclosporine Verapamil therapy may increase serum levels of cyclosporine. 7.17 Lithium Increased sensitivity to the effects of lithium (neurotoxicity) has been reported during concomitant verapamil-lithium therapy with either no change or an increase in serum lithium levels. However, the addition of verapamil has also resulted in the lowering of serum lithium levels in patients receiving chronic stable oral lithium. 7.18 Inhalation Anesthetics Animal experiments have shown that inhalation anesthetics depress cardiovascular activity by decreasing the inward movement of calcium ions. When used concomitantly, inhalation anesthetics and calcium antagonists, such as verapamil, titrate slowly to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression. 7.19 Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Clinical data and animal studies suggest that verapamil may potentiate the activity of neuromuscular blocking agents (curare-like and depolarizing). 7.20 Phenobarbital Phenobarbital therapy may increase verapamil clearance. 7.21 Rifampin Therapy with rifampin may markedly reduce oral verapamil bioavailability. 7.22 Theophylline Verapamil may inhibit the clearance and increase the plasma levels of theophylline. 7.23 Cimetidine The interaction between cimetidine and chronically administered verapamil has not been studied. 7.24 Nitrates Verapamil has been given concomitantly with short- and long-acting nitrates without any undesirable drug interactions. 7.25 Mammalian Target of Rapamycin (mTOR) Inhibitors In a study of 25 healthy volunteers with co-administration of verapamil with sirolimus, whole blood sirolimus C max and AUC were increased 130% and 120%, respectively. Plasma S(-) verapamil C max and AUC were both increased 50%. Drug interactions HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: The use of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are CYP3A4 substrates in combination with verapamil has been associated with reports of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis. Beta-blockers: Concomitant therapy with beta-adrenergic blockers and verapamil may result in additive negative effects on heart rate, atrioventricular conduction, and/or cardiac contractility. Digitalis : Clinical use of verapamil in digitalized patients has shown the combination to be well tolerated if digoxin doses are properly adjusted. Maintenance and digitalization doses should be reduced when verapamil is administered, and the patient should be carefully monitored to avoid over or underdigitalization. Antihypertensive agents : Verapamil administered concomitantly with oral antihypertensive agents (e.g., vasodilators, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, diuretics, beta-blockers) will usually have an additive effect on lowering blood pressure. Flecainide: A study of healthy volunteers showed that the concomitant administration of flecainide and verapamil may have additive effects on myocardial contractility, AV conduction, and repolarization. Other agents: Alcohol: Verapamil has been found to significantly inhibit ethanol elimination significantly, resulting in elevated blood ethanol concentrations that may prolong the intoxicating effects of alcohol. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics and metabolism ). Theophylline: Verapamil therapy may inhibit the clearance and increase the plasma levels of theophylline. In rare instances, including when patients with severe cardiomyopathy, congestive heart failure, or recent myocardial infarction were given intravenous beta-adrenergic blocking agents or disopyramide concomitantly with intravenous verapamil, serious adverse effects have occurred. Other Cimetidine: The interaction between cimetidine and chronically administered verapamil has not been studied. In acute studies of healthy volunteers, clearance of verapamil was either reduced or unchanged. Lithium: Increased sensitivity to the effects of lithium (neurotoxicity) has been reported during concomitant verapamil-lithium therapy with either no change or an increase in serum lithium levels. The addition of verapamil, however, has also resulted in the lowering of serum lithium levels in patients receiving chronic stable oral lithium. Cyclosporin: Verapamil therapy may increase serum levels of cyclosporin. When used concomitantly, inhalation anesthetics and calcium antagonists (such as verapamil) should be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents: Clinical data and animal studies suggest that verapamil may potentiate the activity of depolarizing and nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents. Dantrolene: Two animal studies suggest concomitant intravenous use of verapamil and dantrolene sodium may result in cardiovascular collapse. There has been one report of hyperkalemia and myocardial depression following the coadministration of oral verapamil and intravenous dantrolene. Avoid coadministration of verapamil and ivabradine. Drug interactions Cytochrome inducers/inhibitors In vitro metabolic studies indicate that verapamil is metabolized by cytochrome P450 CYP3A4, CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, and CYP2C18. Beta-blockers Concomitant therapy with beta-adrenergic blockers and verapamil may result in additive negative effects on heart rate, atrioventricular conduction and/or cardiac contractility. Digitalis Clinical use of verapamil in digitalized patients has shown the combination to be well tolerated if digoxin doses are properly adjusted. Antihypertensive agents Verapamil administered concomitantly with oral antihypertensive agents (eg, vasodilators, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, diuretics, beta-blockers) will usually have an additive effect on lowering blood pressure. Antiarrhythmic agents Disopyramide Until data on possible interactions between verapamil and disopyramide phosphate are obtained, disopyramide should not be administered within 48 hours before or 24 hours after verapamil administration. Flecainide A study in healthy volunteers showed that the concomitant administration of flecainide and verapamil may have additive effects on myocardial contractility, AV conduction, and repolarization. Quinidine In a small number of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (IHSS), concomitant use of verapamil and quinidine resulted in significant hypotension. Other agents Alcohol Verapamil has been found to inhibit ethanol elimination significantly, resulting in elevated blood ethanol concentrations that may prolong the intoxicating effects of alcohol (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics and metabolism ). Nitrates Verapamil has been given concomitantly with short- and long-acting nitrates without any undesirable drug interactions. Cimetidine The interaction between cimetidine and chronically administered verapamil has not been studied. Lithium Increased sensitivity to the effects of lithium (neurotoxicity) has been reported during concomitant verapamil-lithium therapy; lithium levels have been observed sometimes to increase, sometimes to decrease, and sometimes to be unchanged. Carbamazepine Verapamil therapy may increase carbamazepine concentrations during combined therapy. Rifampin Therapy with rifampin may markedly reduce oral verapamil bioavailability. Phenobarbital Phenobarbital therapy may increase verapamil clearance. Cyclosporin Verapamil therapy may increase serum levels of cyclosporin. Theophylline Verapamil may inhibit the clearance and increase the plasma levels of theophylline. Inhalation anesthetics Animal experiments have shown that inhalation anesthetics depress cardiovascular activity by decreasing the inward movement of calcium ions. Neuromuscular blocking agents Clinical data and animal studies suggest that verapamil may potentiate the activity of neuromuscular blocking agents (curare-like and depolarizing). Telithromycin Hypotension and bradyarrhythmias have been observed in patients receiving concurrent telithromycin, an antibiotic in the ketolide class. Mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors In a study of 25 healthy volunteers with co-administration of verapamil with sirolimus, whole blood sirolimus C max and AUC were increased 130% and 120%, respectively.

=== DOXEPIN HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Doxepin tablets are indicated for the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulty with sleep maintenance. The clinical trials performed in support of efficacy were up to 3 months in duration. Doxepin tablets are indicated for the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep maintenance. ( 1 , 14 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Doxepin hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults. Doxepin hydrochloride capsules are a tricyclic antidepressant (TCA) indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Doxepin hydrochloride capsules are recommended for the treatment of: Psychoneurotic patients with depression and/or anxiety. Depression and/or anxiety associated with alcoholism (not to be taken concomitantly with alcohol). Depression and/or anxiety associated with organic disease (the possibility of drug interaction should be considered if the patient is receiving other drugs concomitantly). Psychotic depressive disorders with associated anxiety including involutional depression and manic-depressive disorders. The target symptoms of psychoneurosis that respond particularly well to doxepin hydrochloride capsules include anxiety, tension, depression, somatic symptoms and concerns, sleep disturbances, guilt, lack of energy, fear, apprehension and worry. Clinical experience has shown that doxepin hydrochloride capsule is safe and well tolerated even in the elderly patient. Owing to lack of clinical experience in the pediatric population, doxepin hydrochloride capsule is not recommended for use in children under 12 years of age. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Doxepin Hydrochloride Capsules, USP are recommended for the treatment of: Psychoneurotic patients with depression and/or anxiety. Clinical experience has shown that doxepin hydrochloride capsules is safe and well tolerated even in the elderly patient. Owing to lack of clinical experience in the pediatric population, doxepin is not recommended for use in children under 12 years of age. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Doxepin HCl is recommended for the treatment of: 1.Psychoneurotic patients with depression and/or anxiety. 2.Depression and/or anxiety associated with alcoholism (not to be taken concomitantly with alcohol). 3.Depression and/or anxiety associated with organic disease (the possibility of drug interaction should be considered if the patient is receiving other drugs concomitantly). 4.Psychotic depressive disorders with associated anxiety including involutional depression and manic-depressive disorders. The target symptoms of psychoneurosis that respond particularly well to doxepin HCl include anxiety, tension, depression, somatic symptoms and concerns, sleep disturbances, guilt, lack of energy, fear, apprehension and worry. Clinical experience has shown that doxepin HCl is safe and well tolerated even in the elderly patient. Owing to lack of clinical experience in the pediatric population, doxepin HCl is not recommended for use in children under 12 years of age. Doxepin Hydrochloride Capsules, USP are recommended for the treatment of: Psychoneurotic patients with depression and/or anxiety. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Doxepin Hydrochloride Capsules, USP are recommended for the treatment of: 1. Psychoneurotic patients with depression and/or anxiety. 2. 3. 4. Clinical experience has shown that doxepin hydrochloride capsules are safe and well tolerated even in the elderly patient. Owing to lack of clinical experience in the pediatric population, doxepin hydrochloride capsules are not recommended for use in children under 12 years of age.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of doxepin tablets should be individualized. Initial dose: 6 mg, once daily for adults ( 2.1 ) and 3 mg, once daily for the elderly. ( 2.1 , 2.2 ) Take within 30 minutes of bedtime. Total daily dose should not exceed 6 mg. ( 2.3 ) Should not be taken within 3 hours of a meal. ( 2.3 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Dosing in Adults The recommended dose of doxepin tablets for adults is 6 mg once daily. A 3 mg once daily dose may be appropriate for some patients, if clinically indicated. 2.2 Dosing in the Elderly The recommended starting dose of doxepin tablets in elderly patients (≥65 years old) is 3 mg once daily. The daily dose can be increased to 6 mg, if clinically indicated. 2.3 Administration Doxepin tablets should be taken within 30 minutes of bedtime. To minimize the potential for next day effects, doxepin tablets should not be taken within 3 hours of a meal [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. The total doxepin tablets dose should not exceed 6 mg per day. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Prior to initiating treatment with doxepin hydrochloride capsules, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania. (2.1) Recommended starting oral dosage is 25 mg three times daily or 75 mg once daily. (2.2) Recommended target total dosage range is between 75 mg/day and 150 mg/day (may be given once daily or in divided doses). (2.2) Maximum recommended dosage is 100 mg three times daily. (2.2) Wait at least 14 days after discontinuation of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) before initiating therapy with doxepin hydrochloride capsules. (2.3) See the Full Prescribing Information for dosage modifications intended to reduce the risk of anticholinergic effects, for strong CYP2D6 inhibitors, and in known CYP2D6 and CYP2C19 poor metabolizers. (2.4, 2.5, 2.6). When discontinuing doxepin hydrochloride capsules, gradually reduce the dosage until discontinued. (2.7) 2.1 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Doxepin hydrochloride Capsules Prior to initiating treatment with doxepin hydrochloride capsules, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] 2.2 Recommended Dosage The recommended starting oral dosage for doxepin hydrochloride capsules is 25 mg three times daily or 75 mg once daily. The recommended drug target total oral dosage range for doxepin hydrochloride capsule is between 75 mg/day and 150 mg/day (may be given once daily or in divided doses). The maximum recommended oral dosage for doxepin hydrochloride capsule is 100 mg three times daily. 2.3 Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor Wait at least 14 days after discontinuation of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) before initiating therapy with doxepin hydrochloride capsules [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2), and Drug Interactions (7)]. Wait at least 14 days after discontinuation of doxepin hydrochloride capsules before initiating therapy with an MAOI [see Contraindications (4.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2), and Drug Interactions (7)]. 2.4 Dosage Modifications Intended to Reduce the Risk of Anticholinergic Effects If anticholinergic effects (e.g., dry mouth, blurred vision, constipation) develop, reduce the doxepin hydrochloride capsules dosage [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 2.5 Dosage Modifications for Strong CYP2D6 Inhibitors Reduce the doxepin hydrochloride dosage based on doxepin plasma concentrations when used concomitantly with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 2.6 Dosage Modifications in Known CYP2D6 and CYP2C19 Poor Metabolizers Reduce the doxepin hydrochloride dosage based on doxepin plasma concentrations in patients who are known CYP2D6 and CYP2C19 poor metabolizers [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7)]. 2.7 Discontinuation of Doxepin Hydrochloride Capsules Treatment When discontinuing doxepin hydrochloride capsules, gradually reduce the dosage until discontinued [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For most patients with illness of mild to moderate severity, a starting daily dose of 75 mg is recommended. Dosage may subsequently be increased or decreased at appropriate intervals and according to individual response. The usual optimum dose range is 75 mg/day to 150 mg/day. In more severely ill patients higher doses may be required with subsequent gradual increase to 300 mg/day if necessary. Additional therapeutic effect is rarely to be obtained by exceeding a dose of 300 mg/day. In patients with very mild symptomatology or emotional symptoms accompanying organic disease, lower doses may suffice. Some of these patients have been controlled on doses as low as 25 to 50 mg/day. The total daily dosage of doxepin hydrochloride capsules may be given on a divided or once-a-day dosage schedule. If the once-a-day schedule is employed, the maximum recommended dose is 150 mg/day. This dose may be given at bedtime. The 150 mg capsule strength is intended for maintenance therapy only and is not recommended for initiation of treatment. Anti-anxiety effect is apparent before the antidepressant effect. Optimal antidepressant effect may not be evident for two to three weeks. 2.2 Dosing in the Elderly The recommended starting dose of doxepin tablets in elderly patients (≥ 65 years old) is 3 mg once daily. To minimize the potential for next day effects, doxepin tablets should not be taken within 3 hours of a meal [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Some of these patients have been controlled on doses as low as 25 mg/day to 50 mg/day. The total daily dosage of doxepin (as the hydrochloride) may be given on a divided or once-a-day dosage schedule. The total daily dosage of doxepin HCl may be given on a divided or once-a-day dosage schedule. For most patients with illness of mild to moderate severity, a starting daily dose of 75 mg is recommended. The total daily dosage of doxepin (as the hydrochloride) may be given on a divided or once a day dosage schedule. If the once a day schedule is employed, the maximum recommended dose is 150 mg/day. The 150 mg capsule strength is intended for maintenance therapy only and is not recommended for initiation of treatment . Antianxiety effect is apparent before the antidepressant effect. Optimal antidepressant effect may not be evident for 2 to 3 weeks.
Warnings: WARNINGS Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Patients with major depressive disorder (MDD), both adult and pediatric, may experience worsening of their depression and/or the emergence of suicidal ideation and behavior (suicidality) or unusual changes in behavior, whether or not they are taking antidepressant medications, and this risk may persist until significant remission occurs. Suicide is a known risk of depression and certain other psychiatric disorders, and these disorders themselves are the strongest predictors of suicide. There has been a long-standing concern, however, that antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment. Pooled analyses of short-term placebo-controlled trials of antidepressant drugs (SSRIs and others) showed that these drugs increase the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents, and young adults (ages 18 to 24) with major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. Short-term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24; there was a reduction with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older. The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in children and adolescents with MDD, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 24 short-term trials of 9 antidepressant drugs in over 4400 patients. The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in adults with MDD or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 295 short-term trials (median duration of 2 months) of 11 antidepressant drugs in over 77,000 patients. There was considerable variation in risk of suicidality among drugs, but a tendency toward an increase in the younger patients for almost all drugs studied. There were differences in absolute risk of suicidality across the different indications, with the highest incidence in MDD. The risk differences (drug vs placebo), however, were relatively stable within age strata and across indications. These risk differences (drug-placebo difference in the number of cases of suicidality per 1000 patients treated) are provided in Table 1. Table 1 Age Range Drug-Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo <18 14 additional cases 18 to 24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25 to 64 1 fewer case ≥65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. There were suicides in the adult trials, but the number was not sufficient to reach any conclusion about drug effect on suicide. It is unknown whether the suicidality risk extends to longer-term use, i.e., beyond several months. However, there is substantial evidence from placebo-controlled maintenance trials in adults with depression that the use of antidepressants can delay the recurrence of depression. All patients being treated with antidepressants for any indication should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening, suicidality, and unusual changes in behavior, especially during the initial few months of a course of drug therapy, or at times of dose changes, either increases or decreases. The following symptoms, anxiety, agitation, panic attacks, insomnia, irritability, hostility, aggressiveness, impulsivity, akathisia (psychomotor restlessness), hypomania, and mania, have been reported in adult and pediatric patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder as well as for other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric. Although a causal link between the emergence of such symptoms and either the worsening of depression and/or the emergence of suicidal impulses has not been established, there is concern that such symptoms may represent precursors to emerging suicidality. Consideration should be given to changing the therapeutic regimen, including possibly discontinuing the medication, in patients whose depression is persistently worse, or who are experiencing emergent suicidality or symptoms that might be precursors to worsening depression or suicidality, especially if these symptoms are severe, abrupt in onset, or were not part of the patient's presenting symptoms. Families and caregivers of patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder or other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric, should be alerted about the need to monitor patients for the emergence of agitation, irritability, unusual changes in behavior, and the other symptoms described above, as well as the emergence of suicidality, and to report such symptoms immediately to health care providers Such monitoring should include daily observation by families and caregivers. Prescriptions for doxepin hydrochloride should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management, in order to reduce the risk of overdose. Screening Patients for Bipolar Disorder A major depressive episode may be the initial presentation of bipolar disorder. It is generally believed (though not established in controlled trials) that treating such an episode with an antidepressant alone may increase the likelihood of precipitation of a mixed/manic episode in patients at risk for bipolar disorder. Whether any of the symptoms described above represent such a conversion is unknown. However, prior to initiating treatment with an antidepressant, patients with depressive symptoms should be adequately screened to determine if they are at risk for bipolar disorder; such screening should include a detailed psychiatric history, including a family history of suicide, bipolar disorder, and depression. It should be noted that doxepin hydrochloride are not approved for use in treating bipolar depression. Angle-Closure Glaucoma The pupillary dilation that occurs following use of many antidepressant drugs including doxepin hydrochloride capsules may trigger an angle closure attack in a patient with anatomically narrow angles who does not have a patent iridectomy. Usage in Geriatrics: The use of doxepin hydrochloride on a once-a-day dosage regimen in geriatric patients should be adjusted carefully based on the patient’s condition (see PRECAUTIONS; Geriatric Use ). Usage in Pregnancy: Reproduction studies have been performed in rats, rabbits, monkeys and dogs and there was no evidence of harm to the animal fetus. The relevance to humans is not known. Since there is no experience in pregnant women who have received this drug, safety in pregnancy has not been established. There has been a report of apnea and drowsiness occurring in a nursing infant whose mother was taking doxepin hydrochloride . Usage in Children: The use of doxepin hydrochloride in children under 12 years of age is not recommended because safe conditions for its use have not been established. Pooled analyses of short-term placebo-controlled trials of antidepressant drugs (SSRIs and others) showed that these drugs increase the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents, and young adults (ages 18-24) with major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. Table 1 Age Range Drug-Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo <18 14 additional cases 18-24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25-64 1 fewer case ≥65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. Prescriptions for doxepin should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management, in order to reduce the risk of overdose. Screening Patients for Bipolar Disorder: A major depressive episode may be the initial presentation of bipolar disorder. It should be noted that doxepin is not approved for use in treating bipolar depression. Angle-Closure Glaucoma: The pupillary dilation that occurs following use of many antidepressant drugs including doxepin may trigger an angle closure attack in a patient with anatomically narrow angles who does not have a patent iridectomy. Usage in Geriatrics: The use of doxepin on a once-a-day dosage regimen in geriatric patients should be adjusted carefully based on the patient’s condition (see PRECAUTIONS−Geriatric Use ). There has been a report of apnea and drowsiness occurring in a nursing infant whose mother was taking doxepin. Usage in Children: The use of doxepin in children under 12 years of age is not recommended because safe conditions for its use have not been established. Table 1 Age Range Drug-Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo < 18 14 additional cases 18 to 24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25 to 64 1 fewer case ≥ 65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. Families and caregivers of patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder or other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric, should be alerted about the need to monitor patients for the emergence of agitation, irritability, unusual changes in behavior, and the other symptoms described above, as well as the emergence of suicidality, and to report such symptoms immediately to health care providers. Such monitoring should include daily observation by families and caregivers. It should be noted that doxepin hydrochloride is not approved for use in treating bipolar depression. Geriatric Use The use of doxepin HCl on a once-a-day dosage regimen in geriatric patients should be adjusted carefully based on the patient’s condition (see PRECAUTIONS-Geriatric Use ). Pregnancy Reproduction studies have been performed in rats, rabbits, monkeys and dogs and there was no evidence of harm to the animal fetus. There has been a report of apnea and drowsiness occurring in a nursing infant whose mother was taking doxepin hydrochloride. Pediatric Use The use of doxepin HCl in children under 12 years of age is not recommended because safe conditions for its use have not been established. Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Patients with major depressive disorder (MDD), both adult and pediatric, may experience worsening of their depression and/or the emergence of suicidal ideation and behavior (suicidality) or unusual changes in behavior, whether or not they are taking antidepressant medications, and this risk may persist until significant remission occurs. Usage in Geriatrics: The use of doxepin on a once-a-day dosage regimen in geriatric patients should be adjusted carefully based on the patient’s condition (see PRECAUTIONS−GERIATRIC USE). The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in children and adolescents with MDD, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 24 short-term trials of nine antidepressant drugs in over 4,400 patients. The risk differences (drug vs. placebo), however, were relatively stable within age strata and across indications. These risk differences (drug-placebo difference in the number of cases of suicidality per 1,000 patients treated) are provided in Table 1. Table 1 Age Range Drug-Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality Per 1,000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo < 18 14 additional cases 18 to 24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25 to 64 1 fewer case ≥ 65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. All patients being treated with antidepressants for any indication should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening, suicidality and unusual changes in behavior, especially during the initial few months of a course of drug therapy, or at times of dose changes, either increases or decreases. The following symptoms, anxiety, agitation, panic attacks, insomnia, irritability, hostility, aggressiveness, impulsivity, akathisia (psychomotor restlessness), hypomania and mania, have been reported in adult and pediatric patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder as well as for other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric. Families and caregivers of patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder or other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric, should be alerted about the need to monitor patients for the emergence of agitation, irritability, unusual changes in behavior, and the other symptoms described above, as well as the emergence of suicidality, and to report such symptoms immediately to healthcare providers. Prescriptions for doxepin should be written for the smallest number of capsules consistent with good patient management, in order to reduce the risk of overdose. Geriatric Use The use of doxepin on a once a day dosage regimen in geriatric patients should be adjusted carefully based on the patient's condition (see PRECAUTIONS: Geriatric Use ). Pediatric Use The use of doxepin in children under 12 years of age is not recommended because safe conditions for its use have not been established.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to doxepin hydrochloride, inactive ingredients, or other dibenzoxepines. ( 4.1 ) Co-administration with Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): Do not administer if patient is taking MAOIs or has used MAOIs within the past two weeks. ( 4.2 ) Untreated narrow angle glaucoma or severe urinary retention. ( 4.3 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Doxepin is contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to doxepin HCl, any of its inactive ingredients, or other dibenzoxepines. 4.2 Co-administration with Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Serious side effects and even death have been reported following the concomitant use of certain drugs with MAO inhibitors. Do not administer doxepin if patient is currently on MAOIs or has used MAOIs within the past two weeks. The exact length of time may vary depending on the particular MAOI dosage and duration of treatment. 4.3 Glaucoma and Urinary Retention Doxepin is contraindicated in individuals with untreated narrow angle glaucoma or severe urinary retention. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Doxepin hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in patients: With hypersensitivity to doxepin (hypersensitivity reactions have included tongue edema and urticaria). The possibility of cross sensitivity with other dibenzoxepines should be kept in mind. With glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. With current or past urinary retention [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Taking MAOIs, or within 14 days of stopping MAOIs (including the MAOIs linezolid or intravenous methylene blue) because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Drug Interactions (7)]. Hypersensitivity to doxepin (4) Glaucoma (4) Current or past urinary retention (4) Taking MAOIs, or within 14 days of stopping MAOIs (4) CONTRAINDICATIONS Doxepin hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to the drug. Possibility of cross sensitivity with other dibenzoxepines should be kept in mind. Doxepin hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in patients with glaucoma or a tendency to urinary retention. These disorders should be ruled out, particularly in older patients. ( 4.3 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Doxepin tablets are contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to doxepin HCl, any of its inactive ingredients, or other dibenzoxepines. Do not administer doxepin tablets if patient is currently on MAOIs or has used MAOIs within the past two weeks. 4.3 Glaucoma and Urinary Retention Doxepin tablets are contraindicated in individuals with untreated narrow angle glaucoma or severe urinary retention. CONTRAINDICATIONS Doxepin is contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to the drug. Doxepin is contraindicated in patients with glaucoma or a tendency to urinary retention. CONTRAINDICATIONS Doxepin HCl is contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to the drug. Doxepin HCl is contraindicated in patients with glaucoma or a tendency to urinary retention. Doxepin is contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to the drug.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS MAO inhibitors: Doxepin should not be administered in patients on MAOIs within the past two weeks. ( 4.2 ) Cimetidine: Increases exposure to doxepin. ( 7.2 ) Alcohol: Sedative effects may be increased with doxepin. ( 7.3 , 5.4 ) CNS Depressants and Sedating Antihistamines: Sedative effects may be increased with doxepin ( 7.4 , 5.4 ) Tolazamide: A case of severe hypoglycemia has been reported. ( 7.5 ) 7.1 Cytochrome P450 Isozymes Doxepin is primarily metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 isozymes CYP2C19 and CYP2D6, and to a lesser extent, by CYP1A2 and CYP2C9. Inhibitors of these isozymes may increase the exposure of doxepin. Doxepin is not an inhibitor of any CYP isozymes at therapeutically relevant concentrations. The ability of doxepin to induce CYP isozymes is not known. 7.2 Cimetidine Doxepin exposure is doubled with concomitant administration of cimetidine, a nonspecific inhibitor of CYP isozymes. A maximum dose of 3 mg is recommended in adults and elderly when cimetidine is co-administered with doxepin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3 )] 7.3 Alcohol When taken with doxepin, the sedative effects of alcohol may be potentiated [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.4 )]. 7.4 CNS Depressants and Sedating Antihistamines When taken with doxepin, the sedative effects of sedating antihistamines and CNS depressants may be potentiated [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.4 ) ]. 7.5 Tolazamide A case of severe hypoglycemia has been reported in a type II diabetic patient maintained on tolazamide (1 g/day) 11 days after the addition of oral doxepin (75 mg/day). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 2 describe the clinically significant drug interactions of doxepin hydrochloride with other drugs or classes. Table 2: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with doxepin hydrochloride Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Prevention or Management Doxepin hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. The use of doxepin hydrochloride within 14 days of discontinuation of an MAOI or the use of MAOI within 14 days of discontinuation of doxepin hydrochloride is contraindicated . Starting doxepin hydrochloride in a patient who is being treated with an MAOI is contraindicated . Clinical Effect(s) Concomitant use of doxepin hydrochloride and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome [Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . Other Serotonergic Drugs (Besides MAOIs) Prevention or Management Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of doxepin hydrochloride and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Mechanism and Clinical Effect(s) Concomitant use of doxepin hydrochloride with other serotonergic drugs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Strong CYP2D6 Inhibitors Prevention or Management Monitor doxepin plasma concentrations and reduce the doxepin hydrochloride dosage or the strong CYP2D6 inhibitor as appropriate [see Dosage and Administration (2.5)]. Mechanism and Clinical Effect(s) Concomitant use of doxepin hydrochloride with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors may increase the exposures of doxepin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] which may increase the risk of doxepin hydrochloride related adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5) and Adverse Reactions (6)]. Examples See www.fda.gov/CYPandTransporterInteractingDrugs for examples of strong CYP2D6 Inhibitors. Carbamazepine Prevention or Management Monitor doxepin plasma concentrations and consider increasing the doxepin hydrochloride dosage in patients taking carbamazepine. Mechanism and Clinical Effect(s) Concomitant use of carbamazepine with doxepin hydrochloride decreases the exposure of doxepin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] which could lead to reduced treatment effect. Cimetidine Prevention or Management Monitor doxepin plasma concentrations and consider reducing the doxepin hydrochloride dosage in patients taking cimetidine. Mechanism and Clinical Effect(s) Concomitant use of doxepin hydrochloride with cimetidine may increase the exposures of doxepin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] which may increase the risk of doxepin hydrochloride -related anticholinergic effects (e.g., dry mouth, blurred vision, constipation) [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Alcohol Prevention or Management Avoid concomitant use with alcohol. Mechanism and Clinical Effect(s) Doxepin hydrochloride may potentiate the sedative effects of alcohol [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] . CNS Depressants Prevention or Management Dosage reduction of doxepin hydrochloride and/or the CNS depressant may be needed based on clinical response and tolerability. Mechanism and Clinical Effect(s) When concomitantly administered with doxepin hydrochloride, the sedative effects of CNS depressant may be potentiated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] . Tolazamide Prevention or Management Monitor glucose levels and reduce the doxepin hydrochloride dosage as appropriate. Clinical Effect(s) Doxepin hydrochloride may cause severe hypoglycemia when concomitantly used with tolazamide. Serotonergic Drugs : Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of doxepin hydrochloride and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs. (5.2, 7) Strong CYP2D6 Inhibitors : Concomitant use of TCAs with drugs that can inhibit CYP2D6 may require lower dosages for the TCA or the other drug, and monitor TCA plasma levels. (7) Carbamazepine : Monitor doxepin plasma concentrations and increase doxepin hydrochloride dosage in patients taking carbamazepine. (7) Cimetidine : Monitor doxepin plasma concentrations and consider reducing the doxepin hydrochloride dosage in patients taking cimetidine. (7) Alcohol : Avoid concomitant use. (7) CNS Depressants : Dosage reduction may be needed based on clinical response and tolerability. (7) Tolazamide : Monitor glucose levels and reduce the doxepin hydrochloride dosage as appropriate. (7) Drug Interactions Drugs Metabolized by P450 2D6 The biochemical activity of the drug metabolizing isozyme cytochrome P450 2D6 (debrisoquin hydroxylase) is reduced in a subset of the Caucasian population (about 7 to 10% of Caucasians are so-called “poor metabolizers”); reliable estimates of the prevalence of reduced P450 2D6 isozyme activity among Asian, African and other populations are not yet available. Poor metabolizers have higher than expected plasma concentrations of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) when given usual doses. Depending on the fraction of drug metabolized by P450 2D6, the increase in plasma concentration may be small, or quite large (8-fold increase in plasma AUC of the TCA). In addition, certain drugs inhibit the activity of this isozyme and make normal metabolizers resemble poor metabolizers. An individual who is stable on a given dose of TCA may become abruptly toxic when given one of these inhibiting drugs as concomitant therapy. The drugs that inhibit cytochrome P450 2D6 include some that are not metabolized by the enzyme (quinidine; cimetidine) and many that are substrates for P450 2D6 (many other antidepressants, phenothiazines, and the Type 1C antiarrhythmics propafenone and flecainide). While all the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), e.g., citalopram, escitalopram, fluoxetine, sertraline, and paroxetine, inhibit P450 2D6, they may vary in the extent of inhibition. The extent to which SSRI-TCA interactions may pose clinical problems will depend on the degree of inhibition and the pharmacokinetics of the SSRI involved. Nevertheless, caution is indicated in the co-administration of TCAs with any of the SSRIs and also in switching from one class to the other. Of particular importance, sufficient time must elapse before initiating TCA treatment in a patient being withdrawn from fluoxetine, given the long half-life of the parent and active metabolite (at least 5 weeks may be necessary). Concomitant use of tricyclic antidepressants with drugs that can inhibit cytochrome P450 2D6 may require lower doses than usually prescribed for either the tricyclic antidepressant or the other drug. Furthermore, whenever one of these other drugs is withdrawn from co-therapy, an increased dose of tricyclic antidepressant may be required. It is desirable to monitor TCA plasma levels whenever a TCA is going to be co-administered with another drug known to be an inhibitor of P450 2D6. Doxepin is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6 (with CYP1A2 & CYP3A4 as minor pathways). Inhibitors or substrates of CYP2D6 (i.e., quinidine, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors [SSRIs]) may increase the plasma concentration of doxepin when administered concomitantly. The extent of interaction depends on the variability of effect on CYP2D6. The clinical significance of this interaction with doxepin has not been systematically evaluated. MAO Inhibitors Serious side effects and even death have been reported following the concomitant use of certain drugs with MAO inhibitors. Therefore, MAO inhibitors should be discontinued at least two weeks prior to the cautious initiation of therapy with doxepin hydrochloride. The exact length of time may vary and is dependent upon the particular MAO inhibitor being used, the length of time it has been administered, and the dosage involved. Cimetidine Cimetidine has been reported to produce clinically significant fluctuations in steady-state serum concentrations of various tricyclic antidepressants. Serious anticholinergic symptoms (i.e., severe dry mouth, urinary retention and blurred vision) have been associated with elevations in the serum levels of tricyclic antidepressant when cimetidine therapy is initiated. Additionally, higher than expected tricyclic antidepressant levels have been observed when they are begun in patients already taking cimetidine. In patients who have been reported to be well controlled on tricyclic antidepressants receiving concurrent cimetidine therapy, discontinuation of cimetidine has been reported to decrease established steady-state serum tricyclic antidepressant levels and compromise their therapeutic effects. Alcohol It should be borne in mind that alcohol ingestion may increase the danger inherent in any intentional or unintentional doxepin hydrochloride overdosage. This is especially important in patients who may use alcohol excessively. Tolazamide A case of severe hypoglycemia has been reported in a type II diabetic patient maintained on tolazamide (1 gm/day) 11 days after the addition of doxepin (75 mg/day). Drowsiness Since drowsiness may occur with the use of this drug, patients should be warned of the possibility and cautioned against driving a car or operating dangerous machinery while taking the drug. Patients should also be cautioned that their response to alcohol may be potentiated. Sedating drugs may cause confusion and oversedation in the elderly; elderly patients generally should be started on low doses of doxepin hydrochloride and observed closely (see PRECAUTIONS; Geriatric Use ). Suicide Since suicide is an inherent risk in any depressed patient and may remain so until significant improvement has occurred, patients should be closely supervised during the early course of therapy. Prescriptions should be written for the smallest feasible amount. Psychosis Should increased symptoms of psychosis or shift to manic symptomatology occur, it may be necessary to reduce dosage or add a major tranquilizer to the dosage regimen. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS MAO inhibitors: Doxepin tablets should not be administered in patients on MAOIs within the past two weeks. ( 7.3 , 5.4 ) CNS Depressants and Sedating Antihistamines: Sedative effects may be increased with doxepin. ( 7.4 , 5.4 ) Tolazamide: A case of severe hypoglycemia has been reported. A maximum dose of 3 mg is recommended in adults and elderly when cimetidine is co-administered with doxepin tablets [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3) ] 7.3 Alcohol When taken with doxepin tablets, the sedative effects of alcohol may be potentiated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.4) ]. 7.4 CNS Depressants and Sedating Antihistamines When taken with doxepin tablets, the sedative effects of sedating antihistamines and CNS depressants may be potentiated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.4 ) ]. Drug Interactions Drugs Metabolized by P450 2D6 : The biochemical activity of the drug metabolizing isozyme cytochrome P450 2D6 (debrisoquin hydroxylase) is reduced in a subset of the Caucasian population (about 7 to 10% of Caucasians are so-called “poor metabolizers”); reliable estimates of the prevalence of reduced P450 2D6 isozyme activity among Asian, African and other populations are not yet available. Therefore, MAO inhibitors should be discontinued at least two weeks prior to the cautious initiation of therapy with doxepin HCl. Serious anticholinergic symptoms (i.e., severe dry mouth, urinary retention and blurred vision) have been associated with elevations in the serum levels of tricyclic antidepressants when cimetidine therapy is initiated. Alcohol It should be borne in mind that alcohol ingestion may increase the danger inherent in any intentional or unintentional doxepin HCl overdosage. Sedating drugs may cause confusion and over sedation in the elderly; elderly patients generally should be started on low doses of doxepin HCl and observed closely (see PRECAUTIONS-Geriatric Use ). Psychosis Should increased symptoms of psychosis or shift to manic symptomatology occur, it may be necessary to reduce dosage or add a major tranquilizer dosage regimen. Pediatric Use: Safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population have not been established (see BOX WARNING and WARNINGS – Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk ). Anyone considering the use of doxepin HCl in a child or adolescent must balance the potential risks with the clinical need. Drug Interactions Drugs Metabolized by P450 2D6 The biochemical activity of the drug metabolizing isozyme cytochrome P450 2D6 (debrisoquin hydroxylase) is reduced in a subset of the Caucasian population (about 7% to 10% of Caucasians are so called "poor metabolizers"); reliable estimates of the prevalence of reduced P450 2D6 isozyme activity among Asian, African and other populations are not yet available. Nevertheless, caution is indicated in the coadministration of TCAs with any of the SSRIs and also in switching from one class to the other. Furthermore, whenever one of these other drugs is withdrawn from cotherapy, an increased dose of tricyclic antidepressant may be required. It is desirable to monitor TCA plasma levels whenever a TCA is going to be coadministered with another drug known to be an inhibitor of P450 2D6. Therefore, MAO inhibitors should be discontinued at least 2 weeks prior to the cautious initiation of therapy with doxepin. Alcohol It should be borne in mind that alcohol ingestion may increase the danger inherent in any intentional or unintentional doxepin overdosage.

=== QUETIAPINE FUMARATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Quetiapine is an atypical antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of: Schizophrenia ( 1.1 ) Bipolar I disorder manic episodes ( 1.2 ) Bipolar disorder, depressive episodes ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Schizophrenia Quetiapine is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. The efficacy of quetiapine in schizophrenia was established in three 6-week trials in adults and one 6-week trial in adolescents (13 to 17 years). The effectiveness of quetiapine for the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1.2 Bipolar Disorder Quetiapine is indicated for the acute treatment of manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, both as monotherapy and as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex. Efficacy was established in two 12-week monotherapy trials in adults, in one 3-week adjunctive trial in adults, and in one 3-week monotherapy trial in pediatric patients (10 to 17 years) [ see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Quetiapine is indicated as monotherapy for the acute treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar disorder. Efficacy was established in two 8-week monotherapy trials in adult patients with bipolar I and bipolar II disorder [ see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Quetiapine is indicated for the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder, as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex. Efficacy was established in two maintenance trials in adults. The effectiveness of quetiapine as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of bipolar disorder has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials [ see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1.3 Special Considerations in Treating Pediatric Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder Pediatric schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder are serious mental disorders, however, diagnosis can be challenging. For pediatric schizophrenia, symptom profiles can be variable, and for bipolar I disorder, patients may have variable patterns of periodicity of manic or mixed symptoms. It is recommended that medication therapy for pediatric schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder be initiated only after a thorough diagnostic evaluation has been performed and careful consideration given to the risks associated with medication treatment. Medication treatment for both pediatric schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder is indicated as part of a total treatment program that often includes psychological, educational and social interventions. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Quetiapine tablet is an atypical antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of: Schizophrenia ( 1.1 ) Bipolar I disorder manic episodes ( 1.2 ) Bipolar disorder, depressive episodes ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Schizophrenia Quetiapine tablets are indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. The efficacy of quetiapine tablets in schizophrenia was established in three 6-week trials in adults and one 6-week trial in adolescents (13 to 17 years). The effectiveness of quetiapine tablets for the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.1 )]. 1.2 Bipolar Disorder Quetiapine tablets are indicated for the acute treatment of manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, both as monotherapy and as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex. Efficacy was established in two 12-week monotherapy trials in adults, in one 3-week adjunctive trial in adults, and in one 3-week monotherapy trial in pediatric patients (10 to 17 years) [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.2 )]. Quetiapine tablets are indicated as monotherapy for the acute treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar disorder. Efficacy was established in two 8-week monotherapy trials in adult patients with bipolar I and bipolar II disorder [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.2 )]. Quetiapine tablets are indicated for the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder, as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex. The effectiveness of quetiapine tablets as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of bipolar disorder has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.2 )]. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Quetiapine is an atypical antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of: · Schizophrenia ( 1.1 ) · Bipolar I disorder manic episodes ( 1.2 ) · Bipolar disorder, depressive episodes ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Schizophrenia Quetiapine is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Quetiapine extended-release tablets are an atypical antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of: Schizophrenia (1.1) Bipolar I disorder, manic or mixed episodes (1.2) Bipolar disorder, depressive episodes (1.2) Major depressive disorder, adjunctive therapy with antidepressants (1.3) 1.1 Schizophrenia Quetiapine extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. The efficacy of quetiapine extended-release tablets in schizophrenia was established in one 6-week and one maintenance trial in adults with schizophrenia. Efficacy was supported by three 6-week trials in adults with schizophrenia and one 6-week trial in adolescents with schizophrenia (13 to 17 years) treated with SEROQUEL [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1.2 Bipolar Disorder Quetiapine extended-release tablets are indicated for the acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, both as monotherapy and as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex. The efficacy of quetiapine extended-release tablets in manic or mixed episodes of bipolar I disorder was established in one 3-week trial in adults with manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. Efficacy was supported by two 12-week monotherapy trials and one 3-week adjunctive trial in adults with manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder as well as one 3-week monotherapy trial in children and adolescents (10 to 17 years) with manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder treated with SEROQUEL [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Quetiapine extended-release tablets are indicated for the acute treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar disorder. The efficacy of quetiapine extended-release tablets was established in one 8-week trial in adults with bipolar I or II disorder and supported by two 8-week trials in adults with bipolar I or II disorder treated with SEROQUEL [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Quetiapine extended-release tablets are indicated for the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder, as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex. Efficacy was extrapolated from two maintenance trials in adults with bipolar I disorder treated with SEROQUEL. The effectiveness of monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1.3 Adjunctive Treatment of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) Quetiapine extended-release tablets are indicated for use as adjunctive therapy to antidepressants for the treatment of MDD. The efficacy of quetiapine extended-release tablets as adjunctive therapy to antidepressants in MDD was established in two 6-week trials in adults with MDD who had an inadequate response to antidepressant treatment [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. 1.4 Special Considerations in Treating Pediatric Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder Pediatric schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder are serious mental disorders, however, diagnosis can be challenging. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE SEROQUEL is an atypical antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of: • Schizophrenia ( 1.1 ) • Bipolar I disorder manic episodes (1.2) • Bipolar disorder, depressive episodes (1.2) 1.1 Schizophrenia SEROQUEL is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. The efficacy of SEROQUEL in schizophrenia was established in three 6-week trials in adults and one 6-week trial in adolescents (13-17 years). The effectiveness of SEROQUEL for the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1.2 Bipolar Disorder SEROQUEL is indicated for the acute treatment of manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, both as monotherapy and as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex. Efficacy was established in two 12-week monotherapy trials in adults, in one 3-week adjunctive trial in adults, and in one 3-week monotherapy trial in pediatric patients (10-17 years) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. SEROQUEL is indicated as monotherapy for the acute treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar disorder. Efficacy was established in two 8-week monotherapy trials in adult patients with bipolar I and bipolar II disorder [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. SEROQUEL is indicated for the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder, as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex. The effectiveness of SEROQUEL as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of bipolar disorder has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Quetiapine tablets are an atypical antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of: Schizophrenia ( 1.1 ) Bipolar I disorder manic episodes ( 1.2 ) Bipolar disorder, depressive episodes ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Schizophrenia Quetiapine tablets are indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. The effectiveness of quetiapine tablets for the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. Efficacy was established in two 12-week monotherapy trials in adults, in one 3-week adjunctive trial in adults, and in one 3-week monotherapy trial in pediatric patients (10 to 17 years) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ]. Efficacy was established in two 8-week monotherapy trials in adult patients with bipolar I and bipolar II disorder [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ]. The effectiveness of quetiapine tablets as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of bipolar disorder has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ]. Efficacy was supported by three 6-week trials in adults with schizophrenia and one 6-week trial in adolescents with schizophrenia (13 to 17 years) treated with quetiapine tablets [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Efficacy was supported by two 12-week monotherapy trials and one 3-week adjunctive trial in adults with manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder as well as one 3-week monotherapy trial in children and adolescents (10 to 17 years) with manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder treated with quetiapine tablets [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. The efficacy of quetiapine extended-release tablets was established in one 8-week trial in adults with bipolar I or II disorder and supported by two 8- week trials in adults with bipolar I or II disorder treated with quetiapine tablets [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Efficacy was extrapolated from two maintenance trials in adults with bipolar I disorder treated with quetiapine tablets. 1.1 Schizophrenia Quetiapine extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. Efficacy was supported by three 6-week trials in adults with schizophrenia and one 6-week trial in adolescents with schizophrenia (13 to 17 years) treated with quetiapine tablets [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.1)]. Efficacy was supported by two 12-week monotherapy trials and one 3-week adjunctive trial in adults with manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder as well as one 3-week monotherapy trial in children and adolescents (10 to 17 years) with manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder treated with quetiapine tablets [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.2)]. The efficacy of quetiapine extended-release tablets was established in one 8-week trial in adults with bipolar I or II disorder and supported by two 8-week trials in adults with bipolar I or II disorder treated with quetiapine tablets [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.2)]. The effectiveness of monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.2)]. The efficacy of quetiapine extended-release tablets as adjunctive therapy to antidepressants in MDD was established in two 6-week trials in adults with MDD who had an inadequate response to antidepressant treatment [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.3)]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Quetiapine tablets are an atypical antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of: Schizophrenia (1.1) Bipolar I disorder manic episodes (1.2) Bipolar disorder, depressive episodes (1.2) 1.1 Schizophrenia Quetiapine tablets are indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. The effectiveness of quetiapine tablets for the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Efficacy was established in two 12-week monotherapy trials in adults, in one 3-week adjunctive trial in adults, and in one 3-week monotherapy trial in pediatric patients (10 to 17 years) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Efficacy was established in two 8-week monotherapy trials in adult patients with bipolar I and bipolar II disorder [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . The effectiveness of quetiapine tablets as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of bipolar disorder has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] .
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION · Quetiapine tablets, USP can be taken with or without food ( 2.1 ) Indication Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia-Adults (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 150 to 750 mg/day 750 mg/day Schizophrenia-Adolescents (13 to 17 years) (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex (2.2) 50 mg twice daily 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years), Monotherapy (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Depression-Adults (2.2) 50 mg once daily at bedtime 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Geriatric Use: Consider a lower starting dose (50 mg/day), slower titration and careful monitoring during the initial dosing period in the elderly ( 2.3 , 8.5 ) Hepatic Impairment: Lower starting dose (25 mg/day) and slower titration may be needed ( 2.4 , 8.7 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Quetiapine tablets, USP can be taken with or without food. 2.2 Recommended Dosing The recommended initial dose, titration, dose range and maximum quetiapine dose for each approved indication is displayed in Table 1. After initial dosing, adjustments can be made upwards or downwards, if necessary, depending upon the clinical response and tolerability of the patient [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 and 14.2 ) ]. Table 1: Recommended Dosing for quetiapine Indication Initial Dose and Titration Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia-Adults Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. Increase in increments of 25 mg-50 mg divided two or three times on Days 2 and 3 to range of 300 to 400 mg by Day 4. Further adjustments can be made in increments of 25 to 50 mg twice a day, in intervals of not less than 2 days. 150 to 750 mg/day 750 mg/day Schizophrenia- Adolescents (13 to 17 years) Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. Day 2: Twice daily dosing totaling 100 mg. Day 3: Twice daily dosing totaling 200 mg. Day 4: Twice daily dosing totaling 300 mg. Day 5: Twice daily dosing totaling 400 mg. Further adjustments should be in increments no greater than 100 mg/day within the recommended dose range of 400-800 mg/day. Based on response and tolerability, may be administered three times daily. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia-Maintenance Not applicable. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex Day 1: Twice daily dosing totaling 100 mg. Day 2: Twice daily dosing totaling 200 mg. Day 3: Twice daily dosing totaling 300 mg. Day 4: Twice daily dosing totaling 400 mg. Further dosage adjustments up to 800 mg/day by Day 6 should be in increments of no greater than 200 mg/day. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years), Monotherapy Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. Further adjustments should be in increments no greater than 100 mg/day within the recommended dose range of 400-600 mg/day. 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Depression- Adults Administer once daily at bedtime. Day 1: 50 mg Day 2: 100 mg Day 3: 200 mg Day 4: 300 mg 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Therapy- Adults Administer twice daily totaling 400-800 mg/day as adjunct to lithium or divalproex. Generally, in the maintenance phase, patients continued on the same dose on which they were stabilized. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Maintenance Treatment for Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Treatment– Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . 2.3 Dose Modifications in Elderly Patients Consideration should be given to a slower rate of dose titration and a lower target dose in the elderly and in patients who are debilitated or who have a predisposition to hypotensive reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . When indicated, dose escalation should be performed with caution in these patients. Elderly patients should be started on quetiapine 50 mg/day and the dose can be increased in increments of 50 mg/day depending on the clinical response and tolerability of the individual patient. 2.4 Dose Modifications in Hepatically Impaired Patients Patients with hepatic impairment should be started on 25 mg/day. The dose should be increased daily in increments of 25 mg/day - 50 mg/day to an effective dose, depending on the clinical response and tolerability of the patient. 2.5 Dose Modifications when used with CYP3A4 Inhibitors Quetiapine dose should be reduced to one sixth of original dose when co-medicated with a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, indinavir, ritonavir, nefazodone, etc.). When the CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine should be increased by 6-fold [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . 2.6 Dose Modifications when used with CYP3A4 Inducers Quetiapine dose should be increased up to 5-fold of the original dose when used in combination with a chronic treatment (e.g., greater than 7 to 14 days) of a potent CYP3A4 inducer (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin, avasimibe, St. John’s wort etc.). The dose should be titrated based on the clinical response and tolerability of the individual patient. When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine should be reduced to the original level within 7-14 days [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . 2.7 Re-initiation of Treatment in Patients Previously Discontinued Although there are no data to specifically address re-initiation of treatment, it is recommended that when restarting therapy of patients who have been off quetiapine for more than one- week, the initial dosing schedule should be followed. When restarting patients who have been off quetiapine for less than one-week, gradual dose escalation may not be required and the maintenance dose may be re-initiated. 2.8 Switching from Antipsychotics There are no systematically collected data to specifically address switching patients with schizophrenia from antipsychotics to quetiapine, or concerning concomitant administration with antipsychotics. While immediate discontinuation of the previous antipsychotic treatment may be acceptable for some patients with schizophrenia, more gradual discontinuation may be most appropriate for others. In all cases, the period of overlapping antipsychotic administration should be minimized. When switching patients with schizophrenia from depot antipsychotics, if medically appropriate, initiate quetiapine therapy in place of the next scheduled injection. The need for continuing existing EPS medication should be re-evaluated periodically. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Quetiapine tablets can be taken with or without food ( 2.1 ). Indication Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia-Adults ( 2.2 ) 25 mg twice daily 150 to 750 mg/day 750 mg/day Schizophrenia-Adolescents (13 to 17 years) ( 2.2 ) 25 mg twice daily 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex ( 2.2 ) 50 mg twice daily 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania-Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years), Monotherapy ( 2.2 ) 25 mg twice daily 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Depression-Adults ( 2.2 ) 50 mg once daily at bedtime 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Geriatric Use : Consider a lower starting dose (50 mg/day), slower titration and careful monitoring during the initial dosing period in the elderly ( 2.3 , 8.5 ) Hepatic Impairment : Lower starting dose (25 mg/day) and slower titration may be needed ( 2.4 , 8.7 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Quetiapine tablets can be taken with or without food. After initial dosing, adjustments can be made upwards or downwards, if necessary, depending upon the clinical response and tolerability of the patient [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.1 and 14.2 )]. Table 1: Recommended Dosing for Quetiapine Tablets Indication Initial Dose and Titration Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia-Adults Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. Increase in increments of 25 mg to 50 mg divided two or three times on Days 2 and 3 to range of 300 to 400 mg by Day 4. 150 to 750 mg/day 750 mg/day Schizophrenia-Adolescents (13 to 17 years) Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. Further adjustments should be in increments no greater than 100 mg/day within the recommended dose range of 400 to 800 mg/day. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia-Maintenance Not applicable 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex Day 1: Twice daily dosing totaling 100 mg. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania-Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years), Monotherapy Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. Further adjustments should be in increments no greater than 100 mg/day within the recommended dose range of 400 to 600 mg/day. 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Depression-Adults Administer once daily at bedtime. Day 1: 50 mg Day 2: 100 mg Day 3: 200 mg Day 4: 300 mg 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Therapy-Adults Administer twice daily totaling 400 to 800 mg/day as adjunct to lithium or divalproex. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Maintenance Treatment for Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Treatment: Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.2 )]. 2.3 Dose Modifications in Elderly Patients Consideration should be given to a slower rate of dose titration and a lower target dose in the elderly and in patients who are debilitated or who have a predisposition to hypotensive reactions [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. The dose should be increased daily in increments of 25 mg/day to 50 mg/day to an effective dose, depending on the clinical response and tolerability of the patients. When the CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine should be increased by 6 fold [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 ) and DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7.1 )]. John's wort etc.). When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine should be reduced to the original level within 7 to 14 days [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 ) and DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7.1 )]. 2.7 Re-initiation of Treatment in Patients Previously Discontinued Although there are no data to specifically address re-initiation of treatment, it is recommended that when restarting therapy of patients who have been off quetiapine for more than one-week, the initial dosing schedule should be followed. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION · Quetiapine tablets, USP can be taken with or without food ( 2.1 ) Indication Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia-Adults (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 150 to 750 mg/day 750 mg/day Schizophrenia-Adolescents (13 to 17 years)(2.2) 25 mg twice daily 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex (2.2) 50 mg twice daily 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years), Monotherapy(2.2) 25 mg twice daily 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Depression-Adults (2.2) 50 mg once daily at bedtime 300 mg/day 300 mg/day · Geriatric Use: Consider a lower starting dose (50 mg/day), slower titration and careful monitoring during the initial dosing period in the elderly ( 2.3 , 8.5 ) · Hepatic Impairment: Lower starting dose (25 mg/day) and slower titration may be needed ( 2.4 , 8.7 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Quetiapine tablets, USP can be taken with or without food. Increase in increments of 25 mg-50 mg divided two or three times on Days 2 and 3 to range of 300 to 400 mg by Day 4 Further adjustments can be made in increments of 25 to 50 mg twice a day, in intervals of not less than 2 days. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia-Maintenance N/A 1 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex Day 1: Twice daily dosing totaling 100 mg. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day 1. N/A Not applicable Maintenance Treatment for Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Treatment– Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . When the CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine should be increased by 6 fold [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . 2.7 Re-initiation of Treatment in Patients Previously Discontinued Although there are no data to specifically address re-initiation of treatment, it is recommended that when restarting therapy of patients who have been off quetiapine for more than one week, the initial dosing schedule should be followed. When restarting patients who have been off quetiapine for less than one week, gradual dose escalation may not be required and the maintenance dose may be re-initiated. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Swallow tablets whole and do not split, chew or crush (2.1) Take without food or with a light meal (approx. 300 calories) (2.1) Administer once daily, preferably in the evening (2.1) Geriatric Use: Consider a lower starting dose (50 mg/day), slower titration, and careful monitoring during the initial dosing period in the elderly. ( 2.3 , 8.5 ) Hepatic Impairment: Lower starting dose (50 mg/day) and slower titration may be needed ( 2.4 , 8.7 , 12.3 ) Indication Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia-Adults (2.2) 300 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia-Adolescents (13 to 17 years) (2.2) 50 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder manic or mixed-Acute monotherapy or adjunct to lithium or divalproex-Adults (2.2) 300 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder, manic Acute monotherapy-Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years) (2.2) 50 mg/day 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Disorder, Depressive Episodes-Adults (2.2) 50 mg/day 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Major Depressive Disorder, Adjunctive Therapy with Antidepressants-Adults (2.2) 50 mg/day 150 to 300 mg/day 300 mg/day 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Quetiapine extended-release tablets should be swallowed whole and not split, chewed or crushed. It is recommended that quetiapine extended-release tablets be taken without food or with a light meal (approximately 300 calories) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Quetiapine extended-release tablets should be administered once daily, preferably in the evening. 2.2 Recommended Dosing The recommended initial dose, titration, dose range and maximum quetiapine extended-release tablets dose for each approved indication is displayed in Table 1 below. After initial dosing, adjustments can be made upwards or downwards, if necessary, depending upon the clinical response and tolerability of the patient [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 , 14.2 and 14.3 )]. Table 1: Recommended Dosing for Quetiapine extended-release tablets Indication Initial Dose and Titration Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia- Adults Day 1: 300 mg/day Dose increases can be made at intervals as short as 1 day and in increments of up to 300 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia-Adolescents (13 to 17 years) Day 1: 50 mg/day Day 2: 100 mg/day Day 3: 200 mg/day Day 4: 300 mg/day Day 5: 400 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia Maintenance-Monotherapy-Adults Not applicable 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder manic or mixed-Acute monotherapy or adjunct to lithium or divalproex-Adults Day 1: 300 mg/day Day 2: 600 mg/day Day 3: between 400 and 800 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder, manic Acute monotherapy-Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years) Day 1: 50 mg/day Day 2: 100 mg/day Day 3: 200 mg/day Day 4: 300 mg/day Day 5: 400 mg/day 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Disorder, Depressive Episodes-Adults Day 1: 50 mg/day Day 2: 100 mg/day Day 3: 200 mg/day Day 4: 300 mg/day 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance- Adjunct to lithium or divalproex-Adults Not applicable 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Major Depressive Disorder- Adjunctive Therapy with Antidepressants-Adults Day 1: 50 mg/day Day 2: 50 mg/day Day 3: 150 mg/day 150 to 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Maintenance Treatment for Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Treatment —Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 , 14.2 )]. 2.3 Dose Modifications in Elderly Patients Consideration should be given to a slower rate of dose titration and a lower target dose in the elderly and in patients who are debilitated or who have a predisposition to hypotensive reactions [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 , 8.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Elderly patients should be started on quetiapine extended-release tablets 50 mg/day and the dose can be increased in increments of 50 mg/day depending on the clinical response and tolerability of the individual patient. 2.4 Dose Modifications in Hepatically Impaired Patients Patients with hepatic impairment should be started on quetiapine extended-release tablets 50 mg/day. The dose can be increased daily in increments of 50 mg/day to an effective dose, depending on the clinical response and tolerability of the patient. 2.5 Dose Modifications when used with CYP3A4 Inhibitors Quetiapine extended-release tablets dose should be reduced to one-sixth of original dose when co-medicated with a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, indinavir, ritonavir, nefazodone, etc.). When the CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine extended-release tablets should be increased by 6-fold [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 2.6 Dose Modifications when used with CYP3A4 Inducers Quetiapine extended-release tablets dose should be increased up to 5-fold of the original dose when used in combination with a chronic treatment (e.g., greater than 7 to 14 days) of a potent CYP3A4 inducer (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin, avasimibe, St. The dose should be titrated based on the clinical response and tolerance of the individual patient. When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine extended-release tablets should be reduced to the original level within 7 to 14 days [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 2.7 Re-initiation of Treatment in Patients Previously Discontinued Although there are no data to specifically address re-initiation of treatment, it is recommended that when restarting therapy of patients who have been off quetiapine extended-release tablets for more than one-week, the initial dosing schedule should be followed. When restarting patients who have been off quetiapine extended-release tablets for less than one-week, gradual dose escalation may not be required and the maintenance dose may be re-initiated. 2.8 Switching Patients from SEROQUEL to Quetiapine Extended-release Tablets Patients who are currently being treated with SEROQUEL (immediate release formulation) may be switched to quetiapine extended-release tablets at the equivalent total daily dose taken once daily. Individual dosage adjustments may be necessary. 2.9 Switching from Antipsychotics There are no systematically collected data to specifically address switching patients from other antipsychotics to quetiapine extended-release tablets, or concerning concomitant administration with other antipsychotics. While immediate discontinuation of the previous antipsychotic treatment may be acceptable for some patients, more gradual discontinuation may be most appropriate for others. When switching patients from depot antipsychotics, if medically appropriate, initiate quetiapine extended-release tablets therapy in place of the next scheduled injection. The need for continuing existing extrapyramidal syndrome medication should be re-evaluated periodically. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • SEROQUEL can be taken with or without food (2.1) Indication Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia - Adults (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 150-750 mg/day 750 mg/day Schizophrenia - Adolescents (13-17 years) (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 400-800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania - Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex (2.2) 50 mg twice daily 400-800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania - Children and Adolescents (10-17 years), Monotherapy (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 400-600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Depression - Adults (2.2) 50 mg once daily at bedtime 300 mg/day 300 mg/day • Geriatric Use : Consider a lower starting dose (50 mg/day), slower titration and careful monitoring during the initial dosing period in the elderly ( 2.3 , 8.5 ) • Hepatic Impairment : Lower starting dose (25 mg/day) and slower titration may be needed ( 2.4 , 8.7 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions SEROQUEL can be taken with or without food. 2.2 Recommended Dosing The recommended initial dose, titration, dose range and maximum SEROQUEL dose for each approved indication is displayed in Table 1. Table 1: Recommended Dosing for SEROQUEL Indication Initial Dose and Titration Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia - Adults Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. Increase in increments of 25 mg-50 mg divided two or three times on Days 2 and 3 to range of 300-400 mg by Day 4. Further adjustments can be made in increments of 25–50 mg twice a day, in intervals of not less than 2 days. 150-750 mg/day 750 mg/day Schizophrenia - Adolescents (13-17 years) Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. 400-800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia - Maintenance Not applicable. 400-800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania - Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex Day 1: Twice daily dosing totaling 100 mg. 400-800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania - Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years), Monotherapy Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. 400-600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Depression - Adults Administer once daily at bedtime. Day 1: 50 mg Day 2: 100 mg Day 3: 200 mg Day 4: 300 mg 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Therapy - Adults Administer twice daily totaling 400-800 mg/day as adjunct to lithium or divalproex. 400-800 mg/day 800 mg/day Maintenance Treatment for Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Treatment – Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 2.3 Dose Modifications in Elderly Patients Consideration should be given to a slower rate of dose titration and a lower target dose in the elderly and in patients who are debilitated or who have a predisposition to hypotensive reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Elderly patients should be started on SEROQUEL 50 mg/day and the dose can be increased in increments of 50 mg/day depending on the clinical response and tolerability of the individual patient. 2.5 Dose Modifications when used with CYP3A4 Inhibitors SEROQUEL dose should be reduced to one sixth of original dose when co-medicated with a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, indinavir, ritonavir, nefazodone, etc.). When the CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, the dose of SEROQUEL should be increased by 6-fold [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 2.6 Dose Modifications when used with CYP3A4 Inducers SEROQUEL dose should be increased up to 5-fold of the original dose when used in combination with a chronic treatment (e.g., greater than 7-14 days) of a potent CYP3A4 inducer (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin, avasimibe, St. When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of SEROQUEL should be reduced to the original level within 7-14 days [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 2.7 Re-initiation of Treatment in Patients Previously Discontinued Although there are no data to specifically address re-initiation of treatment, it is recommended that when restarting therapy of patients who have been off SEROQUEL for more than one-week, the initial dosing schedule should be followed. When restarting patients who have been off SEROQUEL for less than one-week, gradual dose escalation may not be required and the maintenance dose may be re-initiated. 2.8 Switching from Antipsychotics There are no systematically collected data to specifically address switching patients with schizophrenia from antipsychotics to SEROQUEL, or concerning concomitant administration with antipsychotics. When switching patients with schizophrenia from depot antipsychotics, if medically appropriate, initiate SEROQUEL therapy in place of the next scheduled injection. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia-Adults ( 2.2 ) 25 mg twice daily 150-750 mg/day 750 mg/day Schizophrenia-Adolescents (13-17 years) ( 2.2 ) 25 mg twice daily 400-800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania-Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex ( 2.2 ) 50 mg twice daily 400–800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Children and Adolescents (10 - 17 years), Monotherapy ( 2.2 ) 25 mg twice daily 400-600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Depression-Adults ( 2.2 ) 50 mg once daily at bedtime 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Geriatric Use: Consider a lower starting dose (50 mg/day), slower titration and careful monitoring during the initial dosing period in the elderly ( 2.3 , 8.5 ) Hepatic Impairment: Lower starting dose (25 mg/day) and slower titration may be needed ( 2.4 , 8.7 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Quetiapine tablets can be taken with or without food. 2.2 Recommended Dosing The recommended initial dose, titration, dose range and maximum quetiapine tablets dose for each approved indication is displayed in Table 1. Further adjustments can be made in increments of 25 – 50 mg twice a day, in intervals of not less than 2 days. 150-750 mg/day 750 mg/day Schizophrenia- Adolescents (13-17 years) Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. 400-800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia-Maintenance Not applicable. 400– 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex Day 1: Twice daily dosing totaling 100 mg. 400– 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years), Monotherapy Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. 400-600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Depression- Adults Administer once daily at bedtime. Day 1: 50 mg Day 2: 100 mg Day 3: 200 mg Day 4: 300 mg 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Therapy-Adults Administer twice daily totaling 400-800 mg/day as adjunct to lithium or divalproex. 400-800 mg/day 800 mg/day Maintenance Treatment for Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Treatment – Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ]. 2.3 Dose Modifications in Elderly Patients Consideration should be given to a slower rate of dose titration and a lower target dose in the elderly and in patients who are debilitated or who have a predisposition to hypotensive reactions [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Elderly patients should be started on quetiapine tablets 50 mg/day and the dose can be increased in increments of 50 mg/day depending on the clinical response and tolerability of the individual patient. The dose should be increased daily in increments of 25 mg/day to 50 mg/day to an effective dose, depending on the clinical response and tolerability of the patient. 2.5 Dose Modifications when used with CYP3A4 Inhibitors Quetiapine tablets dose should be reduced to one sixth of original dose when co-medicated with a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, indinavir, ritonavir, nefazodone, etc.). When the CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine tablets should be increased by 6-fold [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) ]. 2.6 Dose Modifications when used with CYP3A4 Inducers Quetiapine tablets dose should be increased up to 5-fold of the original dose when used in combination with a chronic treatment (e.g., greater than 7 to 14 days) of a potent CYP3A4 inducer (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin, avasimibe, St. When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine tablets should be reduced to the original level within 7 to 14 days [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) ]. 2.7 Re-initiation of Treatment in Patients Previously Discontinued Although there are no data to specifically address re-initiation of treatment, it is recommended that when restarting therapy of patients who have been off quetiapine tablets for more than one-week, the initial dosing schedule should be followed. When restarting patients who have been off quetiapine tablets for less than one-week, gradual dose escalation may not be required and the maintenance dose may be re-initiated. 2.8 Switching from Antipsychotics There are no systematically collected data to specifically address switching patients with schizophrenia from antipsychotics to quetiapine tablets, or concerning concomitant administration with antipsychotics. When switching patients with schizophrenia from depot antipsychotics, if medically appropriate, initiate quetiapine tablets therapy in place of the next scheduled injection. 300 calories) (2.1) Administer once daily, preferably in the evening (2.1) Geriatric Use : Consider a lower starting dose (50 mg/day), slower titration, and careful monitoring during the initial dosing period in the elderly. ( 2.3 , 8.5 ) Hepatic Impairment : Lower starting dose (50 mg/day) and slower titration may be needed ( 2.4 , 8.7 , 12.3 ) Indication Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia-Adults ( 2.2 ) 300 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia-Adolescents (13 to 17 years) ( 2.2 ) 50 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder manic or mixed-Acute monotherapy or adjunct to lithium or divalproex-Adults ( 2.2 ) 300 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder, manic Acute monotherapy-Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years) ( 2.2 ) 50 mg/day 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Disorder, Depressive Episodes-Adults ( 2.2 ) 50 mg/day 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Major Depressive Disorder, Adjunctive Therapy with Antidepressants-Adults ( 2.2 ) 50 mg/day 150 to 300 mg/day 300 mg/day 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Quetiapine extended-release tablets should be swallowed whole and not split, chewed or crushed. Table 1: Recommended Dosing for quetiapine extended-release tablets n/a - not applicable Indication Initial Dose and Titration Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia- Adults Day 1: 300 mg/day Dose increases can be made at intervals as short as 1 day and in increments of up to 300 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia-Adolescents (13 to 17 years) Day 1: 50 mg/day Day 2: 100 mg/day Day 3: 200 mg/day Day 4: 300 mg/day Day 5: 400 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia Maintenance-Monotherapy-Adults Not applicable 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder manic or mixed-Acute monotherapy or adjunct to lithium or divalproex-Adults Day 1: 300 mg/day Day 2: 600 mg/day Day 3: between 400 and 800 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder, manic Acute monotherapy-Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years) Day 1: 50 mg/day Day 2: 100 mg/day Day 3: 200 mg/day Day 4: 300 mg/day Day 5: 400 mg/day 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Disorder, Depressive Episodes-Adults Day 1: 50 mg/day Day 2: 100 mg/day Day 3: 200 mg/day Day 4: 300 mg/day 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance- Adjunct to lithium or divalproex-Adults Not applicable 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Major Depressive Disorder- Adjunctive Therapy with Antidepressants-Adults Day 1: 50 mg/day Day 2: 50 mg/day Day 3: 150 mg/day 150 to 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Maintenance Treatment for Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Treatment —Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 , 14.2 )]. 2.5 Dose Modifications when used with CYP3A4 Inhibitors Quetiapine extended-release tablets dose should be reduced to one sixth of original dose when co-medicated with a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, indinavir, ritonavir, nefazodone, etc.). When the CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine extended-release tablets should be increased by 6 fold [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 2.6 Dose Modifications when used with CYP3A4 Inducers Quetiapine extended-release tablets dose should be increased up to 5 fold of the original dose when used in combination with a chronic treatment (e.g., greater than 7 to 14 days) of a potent CYP3A4 inducer (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin, avasimibe, St. 2.7 Re-initiation of Treatment in Patients Previously Discontinued Although there are no data to specifically address re-initiation of treatment, it is recommended that when restarting therapy of patients who have been off quetiapine extended-release tablets for more than one week, the initial dosing schedule should be followed. When restarting patients who have been off quetiapine extended-release tablets for less than one week, gradual dose escalation may not be required and the maintenance dose may be reinitiated. 2.8 Switching Patients from quetiapine tablets to quetiapine extended-release tablets Patients who are currently being treated with quetiapine tablets (immediate release formulation) may be switched to quetiapine extended-release tablets at the equivalent total daily dose taken once daily. 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Quetiapine extended-release tablets should be swallowed whole and not split, chewed or crushed. It is recommended that quetiapine extended-release tablets be taken without food or with a light meal (approximately 300 calories) [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. After initial dosing, adjustments can be made upwards or downwards, if necessary, depending upon the clinical response and tolerability of the patient [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1, 14.2 and 14.3)]. Table 1: Recommended Dosing for quetiapine extended-release tablets Indication Initial Dose and Titration Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia- Adults Day 1: 300 mg/day Dose increases can be made at intervals as short as 1 day and in increments of up to 300 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia-Adolescents (13 to 17 years) Day 1: 50 mg/day Day 2: 100 mg/day Day 3: 200 mg/day Day 4: 300 mg/day Day 5: 400 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia Maintenance-Monotherapy-Adults Not applicable 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder manic or mixed-Acute monotherapy or adjunct to lithium or divalproex-Adults Day 1: 300 mg/day Day 2: 600 mg/day Day 3: between 400 and 800 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder, manic Acute monotherapy-Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years) Day 1: 50 mg/day Day 2: 100 mg/day Day 3: 200 mg/day Day 4: 300 mg/day Day 5: 400 mg/day 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Disorder, Depressive Episodes-Adults Day 1: 50 mg/day Day 2: 100 mg/day Day 3: 200 mg/day Day 4: 300 mg/day 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance- Adjunct to lithium or divalproex-Adults Not applicable 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Major Depressive Disorder- Adjunctive Therapy with Antidepressants-Adults Day 1: 50 mg/day Day 2: 50 mg/day Day 3: 150 mg/day 150 to 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Maintenance Treatment for Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Treatment—Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1, 14.2)]. 2.3 Dose Modifications in Elderly Patients Consideration should be given to a slower rate of dose titration and a lower target dose in the elderly and in patients who are debilitated or who have a predisposition to hypotensive reactions [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5, 8.7) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. When the CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine extended-release tablets should be increased by 6-fold [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3) and DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.1)]. When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine extended-release tablets should be reduced to the original level within 7 to 14 days [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3) and DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.1)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Quetiapine tablets can be taken with or without food ( 2.1 ) Indication Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia - Adults (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 150 to 750 mg/day 750 mg/day Schizophrenia - Adolescents (13 to 17 years) (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania - Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex (2.2) 50 mg twice daily 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania - Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years), Monotherapy (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Depression - Adults (2.2) 50 mg once daily at bedtime 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Geriatric Use: Consider a lower starting dose (50 mg/day), slower titration and careful monitoring during the initial dosing period in the elderly (2.3 , 8.5) Hepatic Impairment: Lower starting dose (25 mg/day) and slower titration may be needed (2.4, 8.7 , 12.3) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Quetiapine tablets can be taken with or without food. After initial dosing, adjustments can be made upwards or downwards, if necessary, depending upon the clinical response and tolerability of the patient [see Clinical Studies (14.1 and 14.2)]. Table 1: Recommended Dosing for quetiapine tablets Indication Initial Dose and Titration Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia - Adults Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. 150 to 750 mg/day 750 mg/day Schizophrenia - Adolescents (13 to 17 years) Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia - Maintenance Not applicable. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania - Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex Day 1: Twice daily dosing totaling 100 mg. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania - Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years), Monotherapy Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Depression - Adults Administer once daily at bedtime. Day 1: 50 mg Day 2: 100 mg Day 3: 200 mg Day 4: 300 mg 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Therapy - Adults Administer twice daily totaling 400 to 800 mg/day as adjunct to lithium or divalproex. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Maintenance Treatment for Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Treatment - Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Elderly patients should be started on quetiapine tablets 50 mg/day and the dose can be increased in increments of 50 mg/day depending on the clinical response and tolerability of the individual patient . When the CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine tablets should be increased by 6-fold [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine tablets should be reduced to the original level within 7 to 14 days [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION · Quetiapine tablets, USP can be taken with or without food ( 2.1 ) Indication Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia-Adults (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 150 to 750 mg/day 750 mg/day Schizophrenia-Adolescents (13 to 17 years) (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex (2.2) 50 mg twice daily 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years), Monotherapy (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Depression-Adults (2.2) 50 mg once daily at bedtime 300 mg/day 300 mg/day · Geriatric Use: Consider a lower starting dose (50 mg/day), slower titration and careful monitoring during the initial dosing period in the elderly ( 2.3 , 8.5 ) · Hepatic Impairment: Lower starting dose (25 mg/day) and slower titration may be needed ( 2.4 , 8.7 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Quetiapine tablets, USP can be taken with or without food.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to quetiapine or to any excipients in the quetiapine formulation. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients treated with quetiapine. Known hypersensitivity to quetiapine or any components in the formulation. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to quetiapine or any components in the formulation. ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to quetiapine or to any excipients in the quetiapine tablets formulation. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients treated with quetiapine tablets. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to quetiapine or to any excipients in the quetiapine extended-release tablets formulation. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients treated with quetiapine extended-release tablets. Known hypersensitivity to quetiapine extended-release tablets or any components in the formulation. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to quetiapine or to any excipients in the SEROQUEL formulation. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients treated with SEROQUEL. Known hypersensitivity to SEROQUEL or any components in the formulation. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to quetiapine or to any excipients in the quetiapine tablets formulation. Hypersensitivity to quetiapine or to any excipients in the quetiapine extended-release tablets formulation. Known hypersensitivity to quetiapine tablets or any components in the formulation.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors: Reduce quetiapine dose to one sixth when coadministered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, ritonavir) ( 2.5 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers: Increase quetiapine dose up to 5 fold when used in combination with a chronic treatment (more than 7-14 days) of potent CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., phenytoin, rifampin, St. John’s wort) ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) Discontinuation of strong CYP3A4 inducers: Reduce quetiapine dose by 5-fold within 7-14 days of discontinuation of CYP3A4 inducers ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Quetiapine The risks of using quetiapine in combination with other drugs have not been extensively evaluated in systematic studies. Given the primary CNS effects of quetiapine, caution should be used when it is taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs. Quetiapine potentiated the cognitive and motor effects of alcohol in a clinical trial in subjects with selected psychotic disorders, and alcoholic beverages should be limited while taking quetiapine. Quetiapine exposure is increased by the prototype CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, indinavir, ritonavir, nefazodone, etc.) and decreased by the prototype CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin, avasimibe, St. John’s wort etc.). Dose adjustment of quetiapine will be necessary if it is co-administered with potent CYP3A4 inducers or inhibitors. CYP3A4 inhibitors: Coadministration of ketoconazole, a potent inhibitor of cytochrome CYP3A4, resulted in significant increase in quetiapine exposure. The dose of quetiapine should be reduced to one sixth of the original dose if co-administered with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . CYP3A4 inducers: Coadministration of quetiapine and phenytoin, a CYP3A4 inducer increased the mean oral clearance of quetiapine by 5- fold. Increased doses of quetiapine up to 5 fold may be required to maintain control of symptoms of schizophrenia in patients receiving quetiapine and phenytoin, or other known potent CYP3A4 inducers [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine should be reduced to the original level within 7-14 days [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)] . Anticholinergic Drugs: Concomitant treatment with quetiapine and other drugs with anticholinergic activity can increase the risk for severe gastrointestinal adverse reactions related to hypomotility. Quetiapine should be used with caution in patients receiving medications having anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.20)]. The potential effects of several concomitant medications on quetiapine pharmacokinetics were studied [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7.2 Effect of Quetiapine on Other Drugs Because of its potential for inducing hypotension, Quetiapine may enhance the effects of certain antihypertensive agents. Quetiapine may antagonize the effects of levodopa and dopamine agonists. There are no clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interactions of quetiapine on other drugs based on the CYP pathway. Quetiapine and its metabolites are non-inhibitors of major metabolizing CYP’s (1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, and 3A4). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant Use of Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors: Reduce quetiapine dose to one sixth when coadministered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. ketoconazole, ritonavir) ( 7.1 , 12.3 ) Concomitant Use of Strong CYP3A4 Inducers: Increase quetiapine dose up to 5 fold when used in combination with a chronic treatment (more than 7 to 14 days) of potent CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. phenytoin, rifampin, St. John's wort) ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) Discontinuation of Strong CYP3A4 Inducers: Reduce quetiapine dose by 5 fold within 7 to 14 days of discontinuation of CYP3A4 inducers ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Quetiapine The risks of using quetiapine in combination with other drugs have not been extensively evaluated in systematic studies. Quetiapine exposure is increased by the prototype CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, indinavir, ritonavir, nefazodone, etc.) and decreased by the prototype CYP3A4 inducers (e.g, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin, avasimibe, St. John's wort etc.). CYP3A4 Inhibitors Coadministration of ketoconazole, a potent inhibitor of cytochrome CYP3A4, resulted in significant increase in quetiapine exposure. The dose of quetiapine should be reduced to one sixth of the original dose if co-administered with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2.5 ) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. CYP3A4 Inducers Coadministration of quetiapine and phenytoin, a CYP3A4 inducer increased the mean oral clearance of quetiapine by 5-fold. Increased doses of quetiapine up to 5 fold may be required to maintain control of symptoms of schizophrenia in patients receiving quetiapine and phenytoin, or other known potent CYP3A4 inducers [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2.6 ) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine should be reduced to the original level within 7 to 14 days [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2.6 )]. Anticholinergic Drugs Concomitant treatment with quetiapine and other drugs with anticholinergic activity can increase the risk for severe gastrointestinal adverse reactions related to hypomotility. Quetiapine should be used with caution in patients receiving medications having anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) effects [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.20 ) ]. The potential effects of several concomitant medications on quetiapine pharmacokinetics were studied [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. Quetiapine and its metabolites are non-inhibitors of major metabolizing CYP's (1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6 and 3A4). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors: Reduce quetiapine dose to one sixth when coadministered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, ritonavir) ( 2.5 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) • Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers: Increase quetiapine dose up to 5 fold when used in combination with a chronic treatment (more than 7-14 days) of potent CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., phenytoin, rifampin, St. John’s wort) ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) • Discontinuation of strong CYP3A4 inducers: Reduce quetiapine dose by 5 fold within 7-14 days of discontinuation of CYP3A4 inducers ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on quetiapine The risks of using quetiapine in combination with other drugs have not been extensively evaluated in systematic studies. The dose of quetiapine should be reduced to one sixth of the original dose if co-administered with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Increased doses of quetiapine up to 5 fold may be required to maintain control of symptoms of schizophrenia in patients receiving quetiapine and phenytoin, or other known potent CYP3A4 inducers [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine should be reduced to the original level within 7-14 days [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] . The potential effects of several concomitant medications on quetiapine pharmacokinetics were studied [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Quetiapine and its metabolites are non-inhibitors of major metabolizing CYP’s (1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6 and 3A4). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors: Reduce quetiapine dose to one-sixth when coadministered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, ritonavir) ( 2.5 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) • Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers: Increase quetiapine dose up to 5 fold when used in combination with a chronic treatment (more than 7 to 14 days) of potent CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., phenytoin, rifampin, St. John’s wort) ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) • Discontinuation of strong CYP3A4 inducers: Reduce quetiapine dose by 5-fold within 7 to 14 days of discontinuation of CYP3A4 inducers ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Quetiapine The risks of using quetiapine extended-release tablets in combination with other drugs have not been extensively evaluated in systematic studies. Given the primary CNS effects of quetiapine extended-release tablets, caution should be used when it is taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs. Quetiapine exposure is increased by the prototype CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, indinavir, ritonavir, nefazodone, etc.) and decreased by the prototype of CYP3A4 inducers (e.g, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin, avasimibe, St. The dose should be reduced to one sixth of the original dose in patients coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. CYP3A4 inducers: Coadministration of quetiapine and phenytoin, a CYP3A4 inducer increased the mean oral clearance of quetiapine by 5-fold. Increased doses of quetiapine extended-release tablets up to 5-fold may be required to maintain control of symptoms of schizophrenia in patients receiving quetiapine and phenytoin, or other known potent CYP3A4 inducers [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine extended-release tablets should be reduced to the original level within 7 to 14 days [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ]. SEROQUEL should be used with caution in patients receiving medications having anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.20) ] . The potential effects of several concomitant medications on quetiapine pharmacokinetics were studied [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 Effect of Quetiapine on Other Drugs Because of its potential for inducing hypotension, quetiapine extended-release tablets may enhance the effects of certain antihypertensive agents. Quetiapine extended-release tablets may antagonize the effects of levodopa and dopamine agonists. There are no clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interactions of SEROQUEL on other drugs based on the CYP pathway. SEROQUEL and its metabolites are non-inhibitors of major metabolizing CYP’s (1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6 and 3A4). John’s wort) ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) • Discontinuation of strong CYP3A4 inducers: Reduce quetiapine dose by 5-fold within 7-14 days of discontinuation of CYP3A4 inducers ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Quetiapine The risks of using SEROQUEL in combination with other drugs have not been extensively evaluated in systematic studies. Given the primary CNS effects of SEROQUEL, caution should be used when it is taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs. SEROQUEL potentiated the cognitive and motor effects of alcohol in a clinical trial in subjects with selected psychotic disorders, and alcoholic beverages should be limited while taking quetiapine. The dose of SEROQUEL should be reduced to one sixth of the original dose if co-administered with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Increased doses of SEROQUEL up to 5 fold may be required to maintain control of symptoms of schizophrenia in patients receiving quetiapine and phenytoin, or other known potent CYP3A4 inducers [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of SEROQUEL should be reduced to the original level within 7-14 days [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ]. 7.2 Effect of Quetiapine on Other Drugs Because of its potential for inducing hypotension, SEROQUEL may enhance the effects of certain antihypertensive agents. SEROQUEL may antagonize the effects of levodopa and dopamine agonists. Seroquel and its metabolites are non-inhibitors of major metabolizing CYP’s (1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, and 3A4). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors : Reduce quetiapine dose to one sixth when coadministered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, ritonavir) ( 2.5 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers : Increase quetiapine dose up to 5 fold when used in combination with a chronic treatment (more than 7 to 14 days) of potent CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., phenytoin, rifampin, St. John’s wort) ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) Discontinuation of strong CYP3A4 inducers : Reduce quetiapine dose by 5 fold within 7 to 14 days of discontinuation of CYP3A4 inducers ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Quetiapine The risks of using quetiapine in combination with other drugs have not been extensively evaluated in systematic studies. The dose of quetiapine should be reduced to one sixth of the original dose if co-administered with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. CYP3A4 inducers: Coadministration of quetiapine and phenytoin, a CYP3A4 inducer increased the mean oral clearance of quetiapine by 5 fold. Increased doses of quetiapine up to 5 fold may be required to maintain control of symptoms of schizophrenia in patients receiving quetiapine and phenytoin, or other known potent CYP3A4 inducers [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine should be reduced to the original level within 7 to 14 days [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ) ]. Quetiapine should be used with caution in patients receiving medications having anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.20 ) ]. The potential effects of several concomitant medications on quetiapine pharmacokinetics were studied [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors: Reduce quetiapine dose to one sixth when coadministered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, ritonavir) ( 2.5 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers: Increase quetiapine dose up to 5 fold when used in combination with a chronic treatment (more than 7 to 14 days) of potent CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., phenytoin, rifampin, St. John’s wort) ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) Discontinuation of strong CYP3A4 inducers: Reduce quetiapine dose by 5 fold within 7 to 14 days of discontinuation of CYP3A4 inducers ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Quetiapine The risks of using quetiapine extended-release tablets in combination with other drugs have not been extensively evaluated in systematic studies. Quetiapine exposure is increased by the prototype CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, indinavir, ritonavir, nefazodone, etc.) and decreased by the prototype of CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin, avasimibe, St. Increased doses of quetiapine extended-release tablets up to 5 fold may be required to maintain control of symptoms of schizophrenia in patients receiving quetiapine and phenytoin, or other known potent CYP3A4 inducers [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. The potential effects of several concomitant medications on quetiapine pharmacokinetics were studied. There are no clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interactions of quetiapine tablets on other drugs based on the CYP pathway. Quetiapine tablets and its metabolites are non-inhibitors of major metabolizing CYP’s (1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6 and 3A4). 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Quetiapine The risks of using quetiapine extended-release tablets in combination with other drugs have not been extensively evaluated in systematic studies. The dose should be reduced to one sixth of the original dose in patients coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.5) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. Increased doses of quetiapine extended-release tablets up to 5-fold may be required to maintain control of symptoms of schizophrenia in patients receiving quetiapine and phenytoin, or other known potent CYP3A4 inducers [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.6) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine extended-release tablets should be reduced to the original level within 7 to 14 days [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.6)]. Quetiapine should be used with caution in patients receiving medications having anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) effects [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.20)] . The potential effects of several concomitant medications on quetiapine pharmacokinetics were studied [See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors: Reduce quetiapine dose to one sixth when coadministered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, ritonavir) ( 2.5 , 7.1, 12.3 ) Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers: Increase quetiapine dose up to 5 fold when used in combination with a chronic treatment (more than 7 to 14 days) of potent CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., phenytoin, rifampin, St. John’s wort) ( 2.6 , 7.1, 12.3 ) Discontinuation of strong CYP3A4 inducers: Reduce quetiapine dose by 5-fold within 7 to 14 days of discontinuation of CYP3A4 inducers ( 2.6, 7.1, 12.3) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Quetiapine The risks of using quetiapine in combination with other drugs have not been extensively evaluated in systematic studies. When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine should be reduced to the original level within 7 to 14 days [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] . Quetiapine should be used with caution in patients receiving medications having anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.20) ] .

=== CAFFEINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Alertness aid Purposes Pain reliever Pain reliever aid OTC - PURPOSE SECTION Formulated for symptoms associated with food and environmental allergens such as congestion, swollen glands, runny nose, cough, rashes and stomach upset. Purpose Pain reliever Pain reliever Pain reliever aid
Indications: Use helps restore mental alertness or wakefulness when experiencing fatigue or drowsiness Uses Temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: headache muscular aches INDICATIONS & USAGE SECTION Formulated for symptoms associated with food and environmental allergens such as congestion, swollen glands, runny nose, cough, rashes and stomach upset. Uses Helps restore mental alertness or wakefulness when experiencing fatigue or drowsiness Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pain due to: headache muscular aches Uses Temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: headache minor arthritis pain a cold backaches toothache muscular aches menstrual cramps INDICATIONS AND USAGE Butalbital, Acetaminophen, and Caffeine capsules, USP are indicated for the relief of the symptom complex of tension (or muscle contraction) headache. Evidence supporting the efficacy and safety of this combination product in the treatment of multiple recurrent headaches is unavailable. Caution in this regard is required because butalbital is habit-forming and potentially abusable.
Dosage: Directions adults and children 12 years and over: take 1 tablet not more often than every 3 to 4 hours children under 12 years: do not use Directions do not use more than directed adults and children 12 years and over: take 2 caplets every 6 hours; not more than 6 caplets in 24 hours children under 12 years: ask a doctor DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION Directions: Ages 12 and up take 6 drops by mouth (ages 0 to 11, give 3 drops) as needed or directed by a health professional. Sensitive persons begin with 1 drop and gradually increase to full dose. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION Directions: Ages 12 and up take 6 pellets (ages 0 to 11, give 3 pellets) as needed or directed by a health professional. Under age 2, crush/dissolve pellets in purified water. Sensitive persons begin with 1 pellet and gradually increase to full dose. Directions Adults 18 years of age and over: take up to 2 chewables every 4 to 6 hours, not more that 4 chewable in 24 hours. Do not swallow whole Directions do not exceed recommended dosage adults and children 12 years and over: take 2 caplets every 6 hours; do not take more than 6 caplets in 24 hours children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions do not take more than directed (see overdose warning) adults and children 12 years and over : open 1 pack, place powder on tongue every 6 hours, while symptoms persist. Drink a full glass of water with each dose or may stir powder into a glass of water or other liquid. do not take more than 4 packs in 24 hours unless directed by a doctor. children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 1 or 2 capsules every 4 hours as needed. Total daily dosage should not exceed 6 capsules. Extended and repeated use of this product is not recommended because of the potential for physical dependence.
Warnings: Warnings For occasional use only Caffeine warning: The recommended dose of this product contains about as much caffeine as a cup of coffee. Limit the use of caffeine-containing medications, foods, or beverages while taking this product because too much caffeine may cause nervousness, irritability, sleeplessness, and, occasionally, rapid heart beat. Do not use for children under 12 years of age as a substitute for sleep Stop use and ask a doctor if fatigue or drowsiness persists or continues to recur. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Liver warning: This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 6 caplets in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Caffeine warning: The recommended dose of this product contains about as much caffeine as a cup of coffee. Limit the use of caffeine-containing medications, foods, or beverages while taking this product because too much caffeine may cause nervousness, irritability, sleeplessness, and occasionally, rapid heartbeat. Do not use if you are allergic to acetaminophen with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen, ask a doctor or pharmacist. Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin Stop use and ask a doctor if any new symptoms occur painful area is red or swollen pain gets worse or lasts for more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts for more than 3 days These could be signs of a serious condition. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. WARNINGS SECTION WARNINGS: Keep out of reach of children. Do not use if tamper-evident seal is broken or missing. If symptoms worsen or persist for more than a few days, consult a doctor. If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a doctor before use. Warnings For occasional use only. Caffeine warning. The recommended dose of this product contains about as much caffeine as a cup of coffee. limit the use of caffeine-containing medications, food, or beverages while taking this product because too much caffeine may cause nervousness, sleeplessness, and occasionally, rapid heartbeat. Do not use as a substitute for sleep, or in children under 12 years of age. Ask a doctor before use if you are Presently taking a prescription drug Ask a doctor before use if you are Presently taking a prescription drug Stop using and ask a doctor if fatigue or drowsiness persists or continues to recur If pregnant or breast-feeding consult a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose seek medical help or contact a poison control center right away Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose, seek medical help or contact a poison control center right away Warnings Liver warning This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 6 caplets in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Caffeine warning The recommended dose of this product contains about as much caffeine as a cup of coffee. Do not use with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). Ask a doctor or pharmacist before using with other drugs if you are not sure. Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin Stop use and ask a doctor if any new symptoms occur symptoms do not get better or worsen painful area is red or swollen pain gets worse or lasts for more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts for more than 3 days If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Warnings Reye’s syndrome: Children and teenagers who have or are recovering from chicken pox or flu-like symptoms should not use this product. When using this product, if changes in behavior with nausea and vomiting occur, consult a doctor because these symptoms could be an early sign of Reye’s syndrome, a rare but serious illness. Allergy alert: Aspirin may cause severe allergic reaction which may include: hives facial swelling asthma (wheezing) shock. Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash. If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 4 packs in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Stomach bleeding warning: This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug take other drugs containing prescription or non-prescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product take more or for a longer time than directed Caffeine warning: This product contains caffeine. Limit the use of caffeine-containing medications, foods, or beverages while taking this product because too much caffeine may cause nervousness, irritability, sleeplessness, and, occasionally, rapid heartbeat. Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to aspirin or any other pain reliever/fever reducer with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease stomach bleeding warning applies to you you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, or kidney disease you are taking a diuretic you have asthma Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug for diabetes, gout, or arthritis Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction occurs. Seek medical help right away. you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: feel faint vomit blood have bloody or black stools have stomach pain that does not get better pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present any new symptoms appear ringing in the ears or a loss of hearing occurs These could be signs of a serious condition. It is especially important not to use aspirin at 20 weeks or later in pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery. Overdose warning: Taking more than the recommended dose can cause serious health problems. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Prompt medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. WARNINGS Butalbital is habit-forming and potentially abusable. Consequently, the extended use of this product is not recommended. Hepatotoxicity Acetaminophen has been associated with cases of acute liver failure, at times resulting in liver transplant and death. Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses that exceed 4000 milligrams per day, and often involve more than one acetaminophen-containing product. The excessive intake of acetaminophen may be intentional to cause self-harm or unintentional as patients attempt to obtain more pain relief or unknowingly take other acetaminophen-containing products. The risk of acute liver failure is high in individuals with underlying liver disease and in individuals who ingest alcohol while taking acetaminophen. Instruct patients to look for acetaminophen or APAP on package labels and not to use more than one product that contains acetaminophen. Instruct patients to seek medical attention immediately upon ingestion of more than 4000 milligrams of acetaminophen per day, even if they feel well. Serious skin reactions Rarely, acetaminophen may cause serious skin reactions such as acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Patients should be informed about the signs of serious skin reactions, and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Hypersensitivity/ anaphylaxis There have been post-marketing reports of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis associated with use of acetaminophen. Clinical signs included swelling of the face, mouth, and throat, respiratory distress, urticaria, rash, pruritus, and vomiting. There were infrequent reports of life-threatening anaphylaxis requiring emergency medical attention. Instruct patients to discontinue Butalbital, Acetaminophen, and Caffeine capsules, USP immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms. Do not prescribe Butalbital, Acetaminophen, and Caffeine capsules, USP for patients with acetaminophenm allergy.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated under the following conditions: Hypersensitivity or intolerance to any component of this product Patients with porphyria.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions The CNS effects of butalbital may be enhanced by monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors. Butalbital, acetaminophen, and caffeine may enhance the effects of: other narcotic analgesics, alcohol, general anesthetics, tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide, sedative-hypnotics, or other CNS depressants, causing increased CNS depression.

=== ATENOLOL ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypertension Atenolol tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure lowers the risk of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including atenolol. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than 1 drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. Atenolol tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. Angina Pectoris Due to Coronary Atherosclerosis Atenolol tablets are indicated for the long-term management of patients with angina pectoris. Acute Myocardial Infarction Atenolol tablets are indicated in the management of hemodynamically stable patients with definite or suspected acute myocardial infarction to reduce cardiovascular mortality. Treatment can be initiated as soon as the patient’s clinical condition allows. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , CONTRAINDICATIONS , and WARNINGS .) In general, there is no basis for treating patients like those who were excluded from the ISIS-1 trial (blood pressure less than 100 mmHg systolic, heart rate less than 50 bpm) or have other reasons to avoid beta-blockade. As noted above, some subgroups (e.g., elderly patients with systolic blood pressure below 120 mmHg) seemed less likely to benefit. INDICATIONS & USAGE Atenolol tablets USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program's Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Atenolol tablets USP may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. Angina Pectoris Due to Coronary Atherosclerosis: Atenolol is indicated for the long-term management of patients with angina pectoris. Acute Myocardial Infarction: Atenolol is indicated in the management of hemodynamically stable patients with definite or suspected acute myocardial infarction to reduce cardiovascular mortality. Treatment can be initiated as soon as the patient's clinical condition allows. (See DOSAGE AND ADMNISTRATION , CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). In general, there is no basis for treating patients like those who were excluded from the ISIS-1 trial (blood pressure less than 100 mm Hg systolic, heart rate less than 50 bpm) or have other reasons to avoid beta-blockade. As noted above, some subgroups (e.g., elderly patients with systolic blood pressure below 120 mm Hg) seemed less likely to benefit. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including atenolol and chlorthalidone. This fixed dose combination drug is not indicated for initial therapy of hypertension. If the fixed dose combination represents the dose appropriate to the individual patient's needs, it may be more convenient than the separate components. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , CONTRAINDICATIONS , and WARNINGS .) In general, there is no basis for treating patients like those who were excluded from the ISIS-1 trial (blood pressure less than 100 mm Hg systolic, heart rate less than 50 bpm) or have other reasons to avoid beta blockade. INDICATIONS & USAGE Hypertension Atenolol tablets USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Angina Pectoris Due to Coronary Atherosclerosis Atenolol is indicated for the long-term management of patients with angina pectoris. Acute Myocardial Infarction Atenolol is indicated in the management of hemodynamically stable patients with definite or suspected acute myocardial infarction to reduce cardiovascular mortality. INDICATIONS & USAGE Hypertension Atenolol tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (eg, on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). Atenolol tablets, USP may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , CONTRAINDICATIONS , and WARNINGS . ) In general, there is no basis for treating patients like those who were excluded from the ISIS-1 trial (blood pressure less than 100 mm Hg systolic, heart rate less than 50 bpm) or have other reasons to avoid beta blockade. Treatment can be initiated as soon as the patient's clinical condition allows (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , CONTRAINDICATIONS , and WARNINGS ). In general, there is no basis for treating patients like those who were excluded from the ISIS-1 trial (blood pressure less than 100 mm Hg systolic, heart rate less than 50 bpm) or have other reasons to avoid beta blockade.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension The initial dose of atenolol is 50 mg given as one tablet a day either alone or added to diuretic therapy. The full effect of this dose will usually be seen within one to two weeks. If an optimal response is not achieved, the dosage should be increased to atenolol 100 mg given as one tablet a day. Increasing the dosage beyond 100 mg a day is unlikely to produce any further benefit. Atenolol may be used alone or concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents including thiazide-type diuretics, hydralazine, prazosin, and alpha-methyldopa. Angina Pectoris The initial dose of atenolol is 50 mg given as one tablet a day. If an optimal response is not achieved within one week, the dosage should be increased to atenolol 100 mg given as one tablet a day. Some patients may require a dosage of 200 mg once a day for optimal effect. Twenty-four hour control with once daily dosing is achieved by giving doses larger than necessary to achieve an immediate maximum effect. The maximum early effect on exercise tolerance occurs with doses of 50 mg to 100 mg, but at these doses the effect at 24 hours is attenuated, averaging about 50% to 75% of that observed with once a day oral doses of 200 mg. Acute Myocardial Infarction In patients with definite or suspected acute myocardial infarction, treatment with atenolol I.V. injection should be initiated as soon as possible after the patient's arrival in the hospital and after eligibility is established. Such treatment should be initiated in a coronary care or similar unit immediately after the patient's hemodynamic condition has stabilized. Treatment should begin with the intravenous administration of 5 mg atenolol over 5 minutes followed by another 5 mg intravenous injection 10 minutes later. Atenolol I.V. injection should be administered under carefully controlled conditions including monitoring of blood pressure, heart rate, and electrocardiogram. Dilutions of atenolol I.V. injection in dextrose injection, sodium chloride injection, or sodium chloride and dextrose injection may be used. These admixtures are stable for 48 hours if they are not used immediately. In patients who tolerate the full intravenous dose (10 mg), atenolol tablets 50 mg should be initiated 10 minutes after the last intravenous dose followed by another 50 mg oral dose 12 hours later. Thereafter, atenolol can be given orally either 100 mg once daily or 50 mg twice a day for a further 6 to 9 days or until discharge from the hospital. If bradycardia or hypotension requiring treatment or any other untoward effects occur, atenolol should be discontinued. (See full prescribing information prior to initiating therapy with atenolol tablets.) Data from other beta-blocker trials suggest that if there is any question concerning the use of I.V. beta-blocker or clinical estimate that there is a contraindication, the I.V. beta-blocker may be eliminated and patients fulfilling the safety criteria may be given atenolol tablets 50 mg twice daily or 100 mg once a day for at least seven days (if the I.V. dosing is excluded). Although the demonstration of efficacy of atenolol is based entirely on data from the first seven postinfarction days, data from other beta-blocker trials suggest that treatment with beta-blockers that are effective in the postinfarction setting may be continued for one to three years if there are no contraindications. Atenolol is an additional treatment to standard coronary care unit therapy. Elderly Patients or Patients with Renal Impairment Atenolol is excreted by the kidneys; consequently dosage should be adjusted in cases of severe impairment of renal function. In general, dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Evaluation of patients with hypertension or myocardial infarction should always include assessment of renal function. Atenolol excretion would be expected to decrease with advancing age. No significant accumulation of atenolol occurs until creatinine clearance falls below 35 mL/min/1.73 m 2 . Accumulation of atenolol and prolongation of its half-life were studied in subjects with creatinine clearance between 5 mL/min and 105 mL/min. Peak plasma levels were significantly increased in subjects with creatinine clearances below 30 mL/min. The following maximum oral dosages are recommended for elderly, renally-impaired patients and for patients with renal impairment due to other causes: Creatinine Clearance (mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) Atenolol Elimination Half-Life (h) Maximum Dosage 15-35 16-27 50 mg daily <15 >27 25 mg daily Some renally-impaired or elderly patients being treated for hypertension may require a lower starting dose of atenolol: 25 mg given as one tablet a day. If this 25 mg dose is used, assessment of efficacy must be made carefully. This should include measurement of blood pressure just prior to the next dose ("trough" blood pressure) to ensure that the treatment effect is present for a full 24 hours. Although a similar dosage reduction may be considered for elderly and/or renally-impaired patients being treated for indications other than hypertension, data are not available for these patient populations. Patients on hemodialysis should be given 25 mg or 50 mg after each dialysis; this should be done under hospital supervision as marked falls in blood pressure can occur. Cessation of Therapy in Patients with Angina Pectoris If withdrawal of atenolol therapy is planned, it should be achieved gradually and patients should be carefully observed and advised to limit physical activity to a minimum. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Hypertension The initial dose of atenolol is 50 mg given as one tablet a day either alone or added to diuretic therapy. The maximum early effect on exercise tolerance occurs with doses of 50 to 100 mg, but at these doses the effect at 24 hours is attenuated, averaging about 50% to 75% of that observed with once a day oral doses of 200 mg. Injection should be initiated as soon as possible after the patient’s arrival in the hospital and after eligibility is established. Such treatment should be initiated in a coronary care or similar unit immediately after the patient’s hemodynamic condition has stabilized. Injection in Dextrose Injection USP, Sodium Chloride Injection USP, or Sodium Chloride and Dextrose Injection may be used. Thereafter, atenolol can be given orally either 100 mg once daily or 50 mg twice a day for a further 6-9 days or until discharge from the hospital. (See full prescribing information prior to initiating therapy with atenolol tablets.) Data from other beta-blocker trials suggest that if there is any question concerning the use of IV beta-blocker or clinical estimate that there is a contraindication, the IV beta-blocker may be eliminated and patients fulfilling the safety criteria may be given atenolol tablets 50 mg twice daily or 100 mg once a day for at least seven days (if the IV dosing is excluded). No significant accumulation of atenolol occurs until creatinine clearance falls below 35 mL/min/1.73 m2. Accumulation of atenolol and prolongation of its half-life were studied in subjects with creatinine clearance between 5 and 105 mL/min. The following maximum oral dosages are recommended for elderly, renally-impaired patients and for patients with renal impairment due to other causes: Creatinine Clearance (mL/min/1.73 m2) Atenolol Elimination Half-Life (h) Maximum Dosage 15-35 16- 27 50 mg daily 15 27 25 mg daily Some renally-impaired or elderly patients being treated for hypertension may require a lower starting dose of atenolol: 25 mg given as one tablet a day. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED (See INDICATIONS AND USAGE ). Chlorthalidone is usually given at a dose of 25 mg daily; the usual initial dose of atenolol is 50 mg daily. Therefore, the initial dose should be one atenolol and chlorthalidone 50mg/25mg tablet given once a day. If an optimal response is not achieved, the dosage should be increased to one atenolol and chlorthalidone 100mg/25mg tablet given once a day. When necessary, another antihypertensive agent may be added gradually beginning with 50 percent of the usual recommended starting dose to avoid an excessive fall in blood pressure. Since atenolol is excreted via the kidneys, dosage should be adjusted in cases of severe impairment of renal function. No significant accumulation of atenolol occurs until creatinine clearance falls below 35 mL/min/1.73m 2 (normal range is 100 mL/min/1.73m 2 to 150 mL/min/1.73m 2 ); therefore, the following maximum dosages are recommended for patients with renal impairment. Creatinine Clearance (mL/min/1.73m 2 ) Atenolol Elimination Half-Life (hrs.) Maximum Dosage 15 to 35 16 to 27 50 mg daily < 15 > 27 50 mg every other day Atenolol tablets may be used alone or concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents including thiazide-type diuretics, hydralazine, prazosin, and alpha-methyldopa. Thereafter, atenolol tablets can be given orally either 100 mg once daily or 50 mg twice a day for a further 6 to 9 days or until discharge from the hospital. If bradycardia or hypotension requiring treatment or any other untoward effects occur, atenolol tablets should be discontinued. Although the demonstration of efficacy of atenolol tablets are based entirely on data from the first seven postinfarction days, data from other beta-blocker trials suggest that treatment with beta-blockers that are effective in the postinfarction setting may be continued for one to three years if there are no contraindications. Atenolol tablets are an additional treatment to standard coronary care unit therapy. Elderly Patients or Patients with Renal Impairment Atenolol tablets are excreted by the kidneys; consequently dosage should be adjusted in cases of severe impairment of renal function. No significant accumulation of atenolol tablets occur until creatinine clearance falls below 35 mL/min/1.73 m 2 . The following maximum oral dosages are recommended for elderly, renally-impaired patients and for patients with renal impairment due to other causes: Atenolol Creatinine Clearance (mL/min/1.73m 2 ) Elimination Half-Life (h) Maximum Dosage 15-35 16-27 50 mg daily < 15 > 27 25 mg daily Some renally-impaired or elderly patients being treated for hypertension may require a lower starting dose of atenolol tablets: 25 mg given as one tablet a day. This should include measurement of blood pressure just prior to the next dose (“trough” blood pressure) to ensure that the treatment effect is present for a full 24 hours. Cessation of Therapy in Patients with Angina Pectoris If withdrawal of atenolol tablets therapy is planned, it should be achieved gradually and patients should be carefully observed and advised to limit physical activity to a minimum. The following maximum oral dosages are recommended for elderly, renally-impaired patients and for patients with renal impairment due to other causes: Creatinine Clearance (mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) Atenolol Elimination Half-Life (h) Maximum Dosage 15-35 16- 27 50 mg daily <15 >27 25 mg daily Some renally-impaired or elderly patients being treated for hypertension may require a lower starting dose of atenolol: 25 mg given as one tablet a day. (See full prescribing information prior to initiating therapy with atenolol tablets). Data from other beta-blocker trials suggest that if there is any question concerning the use of I.V. Although the demonstration of efficacy of atenolol is based entirely on data from the first seven postinfarction days, data from other beta blocker trials suggest that treatment with beta-blockers that are effective in the postinfarction setting may be continued for one to three years if there are no contraindications. No significant accumulation of atenolol occurs until creatinine clearance falls below 35 mL/min/1.73m 2 . The following maximum oral dosages are recommended for elderly, renally-impaired patients and for patients with renal impairment due to other causes: Creatinine Clearance (mL/min/1.73m 2 ) Atenolol Elimination Half-Life (h) Maximum Dosage 15-35 16-27 50 mg daily <15 >27 25 mg daily Some renally-impaired or elderly patients being treated for hypertension may require a lower starting dose of atenolol: 25 mg given as one tablet a day. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension The initial dose of atenolol tablets is 50 mg given as one tablet a day either alone or added to diuretic therapy. If an optimal response is not achieved, the dosage should be increased to atenolol tablets 100 mg given as one tablet a day. Angina Pectoris The initial dose of atenolol tablets is 50 mg given as one tablet a day. If an optimal response is not achieved within one week, the dosage should be increased to atenolol tablets 100 mg given as one tablet a day. Although the demonstration of efficacy of atenolol tablets is based entirely on data from the first seven postinfarction days, data from other beta-blocker trials suggest that treatment with beta-blockers that are effective in the postinfarction setting may be continued for one to three years if there are no contraindications. No significant accumulation of atenolol tablets occurs until creatinine clearance falls below 35 mL/min/1.73m 2 . The following maximum oral dosages are recommended for elderly, renally-impaired patients and for patients with renal impairment due to other causes: Atenolol Creatinine Clearance Elimination Half-Life (mL/min/1.73m 2 ) (h) Maximum Dosage 15-35 16-27 50 mg daily <15 >27 25 mg daily Some renally-impaired or elderly patients being treated for hypertension may require a lower starting dose of atenolol tablets: 25 mg given as one tablet a day. In patients who tolerate the full intravenous dose (10 mg), atenolol tablets, 50 mg should be initiated 10 minutes after the last intravenous dose followed by another 50 mg oral dose 12 hours later. If bradycardia or hypotension requiring treatment or any other untoward effects occur, atenolol tablets should be discontinued (see full prescribing information prior to initiating therapy with atenolol tablets). beta-blocker may be eliminated and patients fulfilling the safety criteria may be given atenolol tablets, 50 mg twice daily or 100 mg once a day for at least seven days (if the I.V. No significant accumulation of atenolol tablets occurs until creatinine clearance falls below 35 mL/min/1.73 m 2 . The following maximum oral dosages are recommended for elderly, renally-impaired patients and for patients with renal impairment due to other causes: Creatinine Clearance (mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) Atenolol Elimination Half-Life (h) Maximum Dosage 15 to 35 16 to 27 50 mg daily < 15 > 27 25 mg daily Some renally-impaired or elderly patients being treated for hypertension may require a lower starting dose of atenolol tablets: 25 mg given as one tablet a day. Cessation of Therapy in Patients With Angina Pectoris If withdrawal of atenolol tablet therapy is planned, it should be achieved gradually and patients should be carefully observed and advised to limit physical activity to a minimum.
Warnings: WARNINGS Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation is necessary in supporting circulatory function in congestive heart failure, and beta-blockade carries the potential hazard of further depressing myocardial contractility and precipitating more severe failure. In patients with acute myocardial infarction, cardiac failure which is not promptly and effectively controlled by 80 mg of intravenous furosemide or equivalent therapy is a contraindication to beta-blocker treatment. In Patients Without a History of Cardiac Failure Continued depression of the myocardium with beta-blocking agents over a period of time can, in some cases, lead to cardiac failure. At the first sign or symptom of impending cardiac failure, patients should be treated appropriately according to currently recommended guidelines, and the response observed closely. If cardiac failure continues despite adequate treatment, atenolol should be withdrawn. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . ) Cessation of Therapy with Atenolol Patients with coronary artery disease, who are being treated with atenolol, should be advised against abrupt discontinuation of therapy. Severe exacerbation of angina and the occurrence of myocardial infarction and ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in angina patients following the abrupt discontinuation of therapy with beta-blockers. The last two complications may occur with or without preceding exacerbation of the angina pectoris. As with other beta-blockers, when discontinuation of atenolol is planned, the patients should be carefully observed and advised to limit physical activity to a minimum. If the angina worsens or acute coronary insufficiency develops, it is recommended that atenolol be promptly reinstituted, at least temporarily. Because coronary artery disease is common and may be unrecognized, it may be prudent not to discontinue atenolol therapy abruptly even in patients treated only for hypertension. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Concomitant Use of Calcium Channel Blockers Bradycardia and heart block can occur and the left ventricular end diastolic pressure can rise when beta-blockers are administered with verapamil or diltiazem. Patients with pre-existing conduction abnormalities or left ventricular dysfunction are particularly susceptible. (See PRECAUTIONS .) Bronchospastic Diseases PATIENTS WITH BRONCHOSPASTIC DISEASE SHOULD, IN GENERAL, NOT RECEIVE BETA-BLOCKERS. Because of its relative beta 1 selectivity, however, atenolol may be used with caution in patients with bronchospastic disease who do not respond to, or cannot tolerate, other antihypertensive treatment. Since beta 1 selectivity is not absolute, the lowest possible dose of atenolol should be used with therapy initiated at 50 mg and a beta 2 -stimulating agent (bronchodilator) should be made available. If dosage must be increased, dividing the dose should be considered in order to achieve lower peak blood levels. Major Surgery Chronically administered beta-blocking therapy should not be routinely withdrawn prior to major surgery, however the impaired ability of the heart to respond to reflex adrenergic stimuli may augment the risks of general anesthesia and surgical procedures. Hypoglycemia Beta-blockers may prevent early warning signs of hypoglycemia, such as tachycardia, and increase the risk for severe or prolonged hypoglycemia at any time during treatment, especially in patients with diabetes mellitus or children and patients who are fasting (i.e., surgery, not eating regularly, or are vomiting). If severe hypoglycemia occurs, patients should be instructed to seek emergency treatment. Thyrotoxicosis Beta-adrenergic blockade may mask certain clinical signs (e.g., tachycardia) of hyperthyroidism. Abrupt withdrawal of beta-blockade might precipitate a thyroid storm; therefore, patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis from whom atenolol therapy is to be withdrawn should be monitored closely. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Untreated Pheochromocytoma Atenolol should not be given to patients with untreated pheochromocytoma. Pregnancy and Fetal Injury Atenolol can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Atenolol crosses the placental barrier and appears in cord blood. Administration of atenolol, starting in the second trimester of pregnancy, has been associated with the birth of infants that are small for gestational age. No studies have been performed on the use of atenolol in the first trimester and the possibility of fetal injury cannot be excluded. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Neonates born to mothers who are receiving atenolol at parturition or breastfeeding may be at risk for hypoglycemia and bradycardia. Caution should be exercised when atenolol is administered during pregnancy or to a woman who is breastfeeding. (See PRECAUTIONS, Nursing Mothers .) Atenolol has been shown to produce a dose-related increase in embryo/fetal resorptions in rats at doses equal to or greater than 50 mg/kg/day or 25 or more times the maximum recommended human antihypertensive dose.* Although similar effects were not seen in rabbits, the compound was not evaluated in rabbits at doses above 25 mg/kg/day or 12.5 times the maximum recommended human antihypertensive dose.* *Based on the maximum dose of 100 mg/day in a 50 kg patient. If cardiac failure continues despite adequate treatment, atenolol should be withdrawn (see DOSAGE AND ADMNISTRATION ). WARNINGS Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation is necessary in supporting circulatory function in congestive heart failure, and beta blockade carries the potential hazard of further depressing myocardial contractility and precipitating more severe failure. IN PATIENTS WITHOUT A HISTORY OF CARDIAC FAILURE, continued depression of the myocardium with beta-blocking agents over a period of time can, in some cases, lead to cardiac failure. If cardiac failure continues despite adequate treatment, atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets should be withdrawn (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Renal and Hepatic Disease and Electrolyte Disturbances Since atenolol is excreted via the kidneys, atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets should be used with caution in patients with impaired renal function. In patients with renal disease, thiazides may precipitate azotemia. Since cumulative effects may develop in the presence of impaired renal function, if progressive renal impairment becomes evident, atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets should be discontinued. In patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease, minor alterations in fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma. Atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets should be used with caution in these patients. Ischemic Heart Disease Following abrupt cessation of therapy with certain beta-blocking agents in patients with coronary artery disease, exacerbations of angina pectoris and, in some cases, myocardial infarction have been reported. Therefore, such patients should be cautioned against interruption of therapy without the physician's advice. Even in the absence of overt angina pectoris, when discontinuation of atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets is planned, the patient should be carefully observed and should be advised to limit physical activity to a minimum. Atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets should be reinstated if withdrawal symptoms occur. Because coronary artery disease is common and may be unrecognized, it may be prudent not to discontinue atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets therapy abruptly even in patients treated only for hypertension. Concomitant Use of Calcium Channel Blockers Bradycardia and heart block can occur and the left ventricular end diastolic pressure can rise when beta-blockers are administered with verapamil or diltiazem. Patients with pre-existing conduction abnormalities or left ventricular dysfunction are particularly susceptible (See PRECAUTIONS ). Bronchospastic Diseases PATIENTS WITH BRONCHOSPASTIC DISEASE SHOULD, IN GENERAL, NOT RECEIVE BETA-BLOCKERS. Because of its relative beta 1 -selectivity, however, atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets may be used with caution in patients with bronchospastic disease who do not respond to or cannot tolerate, other antihypertensive treatment. Since beta 1 -selectivity is not absolute, the lowest possible dose of atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets should be used and a beta 2 -stimulating agent (bronchodilator) should be made available. Metabolic and Endocrine Effects Beta-blockers may prevent early warning signs of hypoglycemia, such as tachycardia, and increase the risk for severe or prolonged hypoglycemia at any time during treatment, especially in patients with diabetes mellitus or children and patients who are fasting (i.e., surgery, not eating regularly, or are vomiting). Insulin requirements in diabetic patients may be increased, decreased or unchanged; latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest during chlorthalidone administration. Beta-adrenergic blockade may mask certain clinical signs (e.g., tachycardia) of hyperthyroidism. Abrupt withdrawal of beta blockade might precipitate a thyroid storm; therefore, patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis from whom atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets therapy is to be withdrawn should be monitored closely. Because calcium excretion is decreased by thiazides, atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets should be discontinued before carrying out tests for parathyroid function. Pathologic changes in the parathyroid glands, with hypercalcemia and hypophosphatemia, have been observed in a few patients on prolonged thiazide therapy; however, the common complications of hyperparathyroidism such as renal lithiasis, bone resorption, and peptic ulceration have not been seen. Hyperuricemia may occur, or acute gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving thiazide therapy. Untreated Pheochromocytoma Atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets should not be given to patients with untreated pheochromocytoma. Caution should be exercised when atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets are administered during pregnancy or to a woman who is breastfeeding (See PRECAUTIONS, Nursing Mothers ). Atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets were studied for teratogenic potential in the rat and rabbit. Doses of atenolol/chlorthalidone of 8/2 mg/kg/day, 80/20 mg/kg/day, and 240/60 mg/kg/day were administered orally to pregnant rats with no evidence of embryofetotoxicity observed. Two studies were conducted in rabbits. In the first study, pregnant rabbits were dosed with 8/2 mg/kg/day, 80/20 mg/kg/day, and 160/40 mg/kg/day of atenolol/chlorthalidone. No teratogenic effects were noted, but embryonic resorptions were observed at all dose levels (ranging from approximately 5 times to 100 times the maximum recommended human dose * ). In the second rabbit study, doses of atenolol/chlorthalidone were 4/1 mg/kg/day, 8/2 mg/kg/day, and 20/5 mg/kg/day. No teratogenic or embryotoxic effects were demonstrated. Atenolol Atenolol has been shown to produce a dose-related increase in embryo/fetal resorptions in rats at doses equal to or greater than 50 mg/kg/day or 25 or more times the maximum recommended human antihypertensive dose. * Although similar effects were not seen in rabbits, the compound was not evaluated in rabbits at doses above 25 mg/kg/day or 12.5 times the maximum recommended human antihypertensive dose. * Chlorthalidone Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood. The use of chlorthalidone and related drugs in pregnant women requires that the anticipated benefits of the drug be weighed against possible hazards to the fetus. These hazards include fetal or neonatal jaundice, thrombocytopenia and possibly other adverse reactions which have occurred in the adult. * Based on the maximum dose of 100 mg/day in a 50 kg patient. If cardiac failure continues despite adequate treatment, atenolol tablets should be withdrawn. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Cessation of Therapy with Atenolol Tablets Patients with coronary artery disease, who are being treated with atenolol tablets, should be advised against abrupt discontinuation of therapy. As with other beta-blockers, when discontinuation of atenolol tablets is planned, the patients should be carefully observed and advised to limit physical activity to a minimum. If the angina worsens or acute coronary insufficiency develops, it is recommended that atenolol tablets be promptly reinstituted, at least temporarily. Because coronary artery disease is common and may be unrecognized, it may be prudent not to discontinue atenolol tablets therapy abruptly even in patients treated only for hypertension. Because of its relative beta 1 selectivity, however, atenolol tablets may be used with caution in patients with bronchospastic disease who do not respond to, or cannot tolerate, other antihypertensive treatment. Since beta 1 selectivity is not absolute, the lowest possible dose of atenolol tablets should be used with therapy initiated at 50 mg and a beta 2 -stimulating agent (bronchodilator) should be made available. Abrupt withdrawal of beta blockade might precipitate a thyroid storm; therefore, patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis from whom atenolol tablets therapy is to be withdrawn should be monitored closely. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Untreated Pheochromocytoma Atenolol tablets should not be given to patients with untreated pheochromocytoma. Neonates born to mothers who are receiving atenolol tablets at parturition or breastfeeding may be at risk for hypoglycemia and bradycardia. Caution should be exercised when atenolol tablets are administered during pregnancy or to a woman who is breastfeeding. (See PRECAUTIONS: Nursing Mothers .) Atenolol has been shown to produce a dose-related increase in embryo/fetal resorptions in rats at doses equal to or greater than 50 mg/kg/day or 25 or more times the maximum recommended human antihypertensive dose.* Although similar effects were not seen in rabbits, the compound was not evaluated in rabbits at doses above 25 mg/kg/day or 12.5 times the maximum recommended human antihypertensive dose.* If cardiac failure continues despite adequate treatment, atenolol should be withdrawn (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Cessation of Therapy with ATENOLOL Patients with coronary artery disease, who are being treated with atenolol, should be advised against abrupt discontinuation of therapy. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Concomitant Use of Calcium Channel Blockers Bradycardia and heart block can occur and the left ventricular end diastolic pressure can rise when beta- blockers are administered with verapamil or diltiazem. (See PRECAUTIONS . ) Bronchospastic Diseases PATIENTS WITH BRONCHOSPASTIC DISEASE SHOULD, IN GENERAL, NOT RECEIVE BETA-BLOCKERS. Major Surgery Chronically administered beta-blocking therapy should not be routinely withdrawn prior to major surgery, however, the impaired ability of the heart to respond to reflex adrenergic stimuli may augment the risks of general anesthesia and surgical procedures. Diabetes and Hypoglycemia Atenolol should be used with caution in diabetic patients if a beta-blocking agent is required. Beta-blockers may mask tachycardia occurring with hypoglycemia, but other manifestations such as dizziness and sweating may not be significantly affected. At recommended doses, atenolol does not potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and, unlike nonselective beta-blockers, does not delay recovery of blood glucose to normal levels. Abrupt withdrawal of beta blockade might precipitate a thyroid storm; therefore, patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis from whom atenolol therapy is to be withdrawn should be monitored closely. (See PRECAUTIONS , Nursing Mothers .) Atenolol has been shown to produce a dose-related increase in embryo/fetal resorptions in rats at doses equal to or greater than 50 mg/kg/day or 25 or more times the maximum recommended human antihypertensive dose. * (See PRECAUTIONS , Nursing Mothers .) Atenolol has been shown to produce a dose-related increase in embryo/fetal resorptions in rats at doses equal to or greater than 50 mg/kg/day or 25 or more times the maximum recommended human antihypertensive dose.* Although similar effects were not seen in rabbits, the compound was not evaluated in rabbits at doses above 25 mg/kg/day or 12.5 times the maximum recommended human antihypertensive dose.* Cessation of Therapy With Atenolol Patients with coronary artery disease, who are being treated with atenolol, should be advised against abrupt discontinuation of therapy. Because coronary artery disease is common and may be unrecognized, it may be prudent not to discontinue atenolol therapy abruptly even in patients treated only for hypertension (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Patients with preexisting conduction abnormalities or left ventricular dysfunction are particularly susceptible (see PRECAUTIONS ). Abrupt withdrawal of beta blockade might precipitate a thyroid storm; therefore, patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis from whom atenolol therapy is to be withdrawn should be monitored closely (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Untreated Pheochromocytoma Atenolol should not be given to patients with untreated pheochromocytoma. Caution should be exercised when atenolol is administered during pregnancy or to a woman who is breastfeeding (see PRECAUTIONS, Nursing Mothers ). Atenolol has been shown to produce a dose-related increase in embryo/fetal resorptions in rats at doses equal to or greater than 50 mg/kg/day or 25 or more times the maximum recommended human antihypertensive dose. * * Based on the maximum dose of 100 mg/day in a 50 kg patient.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Atenolol tablets are contraindicated in sinus bradycardia, heart block greater than first degree, cardiogenic shock, and overt cardiac failure. (See WARNINGS .) Atenolol tablets are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to the atenolol or any of the drug product’s components. CONTRAINDICATIONS Atenolol is contraindicated in sinus bradycardia, heart block greater than first degree, cardiogenic shock, and overt cardiac failure (see WARNINGS ). Atenolol is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to the atenolol or any of the drug product's components CONTRAINDICATIONS Atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets are contraindicated in patients with: sinus bradycardia; heart block greater than first degree; cardiogenic shock; overt cardiac failure (see WARNINGS ); anuria; hypersensitivity to this product or to sulfonamide-derived drugs. (See WARNINGS .) Atenolol tablets are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to the atenolol or any of the drug product's components. CONTRAINDICATIONS Atenolol tablets are contraindicated in sinus bradycardia, heart block greater than first degree, cardiogenic shock, and overt cardiac failure (see WARNINGS ). Atenolol tablets are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to the atenolol or any of the drug product’s components.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Catecholamine-depleting drugs (e.g., reserpine) may have an additive effect when given with beta-blocking agents. Patients treated with atenolol plus a catecholamine depletor should therefore be closely observed for evidence of hypotension and/or marked bradycardia which may produce vertigo, syncope, or postural hypotension. Calcium channel blockers may also have an additive effect when given with atenolol (see WARNINGS ). Disopyramide is a Type I antiarrhythmic drug with potent negative inotropic and chronotropic effects. Disopyramide has been associated with severe bradycardia, asystole and heart failure when administered with beta-blockers. Amiodarone is an antiarrhythmic agent with negative chronotropic properties that may be additive to those seen with beta-blockers. Beta-blockers may exacerbate the rebound hypertension which can follow the withdrawal of clonidine. If the two drugs are coadministered, the beta-blocker should be withdrawn several days before the gradual withdrawal of clonidine. If replacing clonidine by beta-blocker therapy, the introduction of beta-blockers should be delayed for several days after clonidine administration has stopped. Concomitant use of prostaglandin synthase inhibiting drugs, e.g., indomethacin, may decrease the hypotensive effects of beta-blockers. Information on concurrent usage of atenolol and aspirin is limited. Data from several studies, i.e., TIMI-II, ISIS-2, currently do not suggest any clinical interaction between aspirin and beta-blockers in the acute myocardial infarction setting. While taking beta-blockers, patients with a history of anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may have a more severe reaction on repeated challenge, either accidental, diagnostic or therapeutic. Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat the allergic reaction. Both digitalis glycosides and beta-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia. Drug Interactions Atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets may potentiate the action of other antihypertensive agents used concomitantly. Patients treated with atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets plus a catecholamine depletor (e.g., reserpine) should be closely observed for evidence of hypotension and/or marked bradycardia which may produce vertigo, syncope or postural hypotension. Calcium channel blockers may also have an additive effect when given with atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets (See WARNINGS ). Thiazides may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine. This diminution is not sufficient to preclude the therapeutic effectiveness of norepinephrine. Thiazides may increase the responsiveness to tubocurarine. Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics because they reduce its renal clearance and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Read prescribing information for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets. Patients treated with atenolol tablets plus a catecholamine depletor should therefore be closely observed for evidence of hypotension and/or marked bradycardia which may produce vertigo, syncope, or postural hypotension. Calcium channel blockers may also have an additive effect when given with atenolol tablets (see WARNINGS ). Calcium channel blockers may also have an additive effect when given with atenolol. (see WARNINGS ). Data from several studies, i.e., TIMI- II, ISIS-2, currently do not suggest any clinical interaction between aspirin and beta-blockers in the acute myocardial infarction setting.

=== TRAZODONE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Trazodone is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) ( 1 ). Trazodone hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Trazodone hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults. Trazodone is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) (1) . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Trazodone hydrochloride tablets, USP are a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) ( 1 ). Trazodone hydrochloride tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Trazodone hydrochloride tablets are a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) ( 1 ). Trazodone Hydrochloride Tablets are a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) ( 1 ).
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Starting dose: 150 mg in divided doses daily. May be increased by 50 mg per day every three to four days. Maximum dose: 400 mg per day in divided doses ( 2 ). Trazodone hydrochloride tablets should be taken shortly after a meal or light snack ( 2 ). Tablets should be swallowed whole or broken in half along the score line, and should not be chewed or crushed ( 2 ). When discontinued, gradual dose reduction is recommended ( 2 ). 2.1 Dose Selection An initial dose of 150 mg/day in divided doses is suggested. The dosage should be initiated at a low-dose and increased gradually, noting the clinical response and any evidence of intolerance. Occurrence of drowsiness may require the administration of a major portion of the daily dose at bedtime or a reduction of dosage. The dose may be increased by 50 mg/day every 3 to 4 days. The maximum dose for outpatients usually should not exceed 400 mg/day in divided doses. Inpatients (i.e., more severely depressed patients) may be given up to but not in excess of 600 mg/day in divided doses. Once an adequate response has been achieved, dosage may be gradually reduced, with subsequent adjustment depending on therapeutic response. 2.2 Improtant Administration Instructions Trazodone hydrochloride tablets can be swallowed whole or administered as a half tablet by breaking the tablet along the score line. Trazodone hydrochloride tablets should be taken shortly after a meal or light snack. 2.3 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Trazodone Prior to initiating treatment with trazodone hydrochloride tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )]. 2.4 Switchning to or from Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor Antidepressant At least 14 days must elapse between discontinuation of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) antidepressant and initiation of trazodone hydrochloride tablets. In addition, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping trazodone hydrochloride tablets before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. 2.5 Dosage Recommendations for Concomitant Use with Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors or Inducers Coadministration with Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Consider reducing trazodone dose based on tolerability when trazodone is coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. Coadministration with Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Consider increasing trazodone dose based on therapeutic response when trazodone is coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inducer [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. 2.6 Discontinuation of Treatment with Trazodone Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of trazodone [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )]. Gradually reduce the dosage rather than stopping trazodone abruptly whenever possible. 2.2 Important Administration Instructions Trazodone hydrochloride tablets can be swallowed whole or administered as a half tablet by breaking the tablet along the score line. 2.4 Switching to or from Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor Antidepressant At least 14 days must elapse between discontinuation of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) antidepressant and initiation of trazodone hydrochloride tablets. Maximum dose: 400 mg per day in divided doses (2) . Trazodone hydrochloride tablets should be taken shortly after a meal or light snack (2) . Tablets should be swallowed whole or broken in half along the score line, and should not be chewed or crushed (2) . When discontinued, gradual dose reduction is recommended (2) . 2.3 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Trazodone Prior to initiating treatment with trazodone hydrochloride tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. In addition, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping trazodone hydrochloride tablets before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] 2.5 Dosage Recommendations for Concomitant Use with Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors or Inducers Coadministration with Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Consider reducing trazodone dose based on tolerability when trazodone is coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. Coadministration with Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Consider increasing trazodone dose based on therapeutic response when trazodone is coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inducer [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 2.6 Discontinuation of Treatment with Trazodone Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of trazodone [See Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. 2.3 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Trazodone Hydrochloride Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with trazodone hydrochloride tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . In addition, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping trazodone hydrochloride tablets before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . 2.5 Dosage Recommendations for Concomitant Use with Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors or Inducers Coadministration with Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Consider reducing trazodone dose based on tolerability when trazodone is coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . Coadministration with Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Consider increasing trazodone dose based on therapeutic response when trazodone is coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inducer [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . 2.6 Discontinuation of Treatment with Trazodone Hydrochloride Tablets Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of trazodone hydrochloride tablets [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] . Gradually reduce the dosage rather than stopping trazodone hydrochloride tablets abruptly whenever possible. 2.3 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Trazodone Hydrochloride Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with Trazodone Hydrochloride Tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. In addition, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping Trazodone Hydrochloride Tablets before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 2.5 Dosage Recommendations for Concomitant Use with Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors or Inducers Coadministration with Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Consider reducing Trazodone Hydrochloride Tablets dose based on tolerability when Trazodone Hydrochloride Tablets are coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. Coadministration with Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Consider increasing Trazodone Hydrochloride Tablets dose based on therapeutic response when Trazodone Hydrochloride Tablets are coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inducer [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 2.6 Discontinuation of Treatment with Trazodone Hydrochloride Tablets Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of Trazodone Hydrochloride Tablets [See Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ].
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None ( 4 ). Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), or use within 14 days of stopping MAOIs ( 4 ). Trazodone hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in: Patients taking, or within 14 days of stopping, monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), or use within 14 days of stopping MAOIs ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Trazodone hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in: Patients taking, or within 14 days of stopping, monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), or use within 14 days of stopping MAOIs (4) . Trazodone hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in: Patients taking, or within 14 days of stopping, monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] .
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CNS Depressants: Trazodone may enhance effects of alcohol, barbiturates, or other CNS depressants ( 7 ). CYP3A4 Inhibitors: Consider trazodone dose reduction based on tolerability ( 2.5 , 7 ). CYP3A4 Inducers: Increase in trazodone dosage may be necessary ( 2.5 , 7 ). Digoxin or Phenytoin: Monitor for increased digoxin or phenytoin serum levels ( 7 ). Warfarin: Monitor for increased or decreased prothrombin time ( 7 ). MAOIs MAOIs should not be used within 14 days of trazodone [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )]. Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Trazodone may enhance the response to alcohol, barbiturates, and other CNS depressants. Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors In vitro drug metabolism studies suggest that there is a potential for drug interactions when trazodone is given with cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors. The effect of short-term administration of ritonavir (200 mg twice daily, 4 doses) on the pharmacokinetics of a single dose of trazodone (50 mg) has been studied in 10 healthy subjects. The C max of trazodone increased by 34%, the AUC increased 2.4 fold, the half-life increased by 2.2 fold, and the clearance decreased by 52%. Adverse effects including nausea, hypotension, and syncope were observed when ritonavir and trazodone were coadministered. It is likely that ketoconazole, indinavir, and other CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole may lead to substantial increases in trazodone plasma concentrations with the potential for adverse effects. If trazodone is used with a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, the risk of cardiac arrhythmia may be increased [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] and a lower dose of trazodone should be considered. Cytochrome P450 Inducers (e.g., Carbamazepine) Carbamazepine induces CYP3A4. Following coadministration of carbamazepine 400 mg per day with trazodone 100 mg to 300 mg daily, carbamazepine reduced plasma concentrations of trazodone and m-chlorophenlypiperazine (an active metabolite) by 76% and 60% respectively, compared to pre-carbamazepine values. Patients should be closely monitored to see if there is a need for an increased dose of trazodone when taking both drugs. Digoxin and Phenytoin Increased serum digoxin or phenytoin levels have been reported in patients receiving trazodone concurrently with either of these drugs. Monitor serum levels and adjust dosages as needed. Serotonergic Drugs Based on the mechanism of action of trazodone and the potential for serotonin syndrome, caution is advised when trazodone is coadministered with other drugs that may affect the neurotransmitter systems [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. NSAIDs, Aspirin, or Other Drugs Affecting Coagulation or Bleeding Due to a possible association between serotonin modulating drugs and gastrointestinal bleeding, patients should be monitored for and cautioned about the potential risk of bleeding associated with the concomitant use of trazodone and NSAIDs, aspirin, or other drugs that affect coagulation or bleeding [s ee Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) ]. Warfarin There have been reports of altered (either increased or decreased) prothrombin times in taking both warfarin and trazodone. 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Trazodone Table 3 Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Trazodone Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of MAOIs and serotonergic drugs including trazodone increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Trazodone is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Contraindications (4), Dosage and Administration (2.3, 2.4), and Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Examples: isocarboxazid, moclobemide, phenelzine, selegiline, tranylcypromine Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of serotonergic drugs including trazodone and other serotonergic drugs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during trazodone initiation. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of trazodone and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Examples: triptans, antidepressants (tricyclic and serotonin uptake inhibitors), fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone, and St. John's Wort Antiplatelet Agents and Anticoagulants Clinical Impact: Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. The concurrent use of an antiplatelet agent or anticoagulant with trazodone may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Intervention: Inform patients of the increased risk of bleeding with the concomitant use of trazodone and antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio (INR) when initiating or discontinuing trazodone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Examples: warfarin, rivaroxaban, dabigatran, clopidogrel Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of trazodone and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the exposure of trazodone compared to the use of trazodone alone . Intervention: If trazodone is used with a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, the risk of adverse reactions, including cardiac arrhythmias, may be increased and a lower dose of trazodone should be considered [see Dosage and Administration (2.5), Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Examples: itraconazole, ketoconazole, clarithromycin, indinavir Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of trazodone and strong CYP3A4 inducers decreased the exposure of trazodone compared to the use of trazodone alone . Intervention: Patients should be closely monitored to see if there is a need for an increased dose of trazodone when taking CYP3A4 inducers [see Dosage and Administration (2.5)]. Examples: rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin, St. John's wort Digoxin and Phenytoin Clinical Impact: Digoxin and phenytoin are narrow therapeutic index drugs. Concomitant use of trazodone can increase digoxin or phenytoin concentrations. Intervention: Measure serum digoxin or phenytoin concentrations before initiating concomitant use of trazodone. Continue monitoring and reduce digoxin or phenytoin dose as necessary. Examples: digoxin, phenytoin Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Trazodone may enhance the response CNS depressants. Intervention: Patients should be counseled that trazodone may enhance the response to alcohol, barbiturates, and other CNS depressants. Examples: alcohol, barbiturates QT Interval Prolongation Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of drugs that prolong the QT interval may add to the QT effects of trazodone and increase the risk of cardiac arrhythmia. Intervention: Avoid the use of trazodone in combination with other drugs known to prolong QTc [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] . Examples: Class 1A antiarrhythmics: quinidine, procainamide, disopyramide; Class 3 antiarrhythmics: amiodarone, sotalol; Antipsychotics: ziprasidone, chlorpromazine, thioridazine; Antibiotics: gatifloxacin 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Trazodone Table 3 Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Trazodone Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact The concomitant use of MAOIs and serotonergic drugs including trazodone increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Trazodone is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Contraindications (4), Dosage and Administration (2.3, 2.4), and Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Examples isocarboxazid, moclobemide, phenelzine, selegiline, tranylcypromine Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact The concomitant use of serotonergic drugs including trazodone and other serotonergic drugs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during trazodone initiation. Examples triptans, antidepressants (tricyclic and serotonin uptake inhibitors), fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone, and St. John's Wort Antiplatelet Agents and Anticoagulants Clinical Impact Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Intervention Inform patients of the increased risk of bleeding with the concomitant use of trazodone and antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants. Examples warfarin, rivaroxaban, dabigatran, clopidogrel Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact The concomitant use of trazodone and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the exposure of trazodone compared to the use of trazodone alone . Intervention If trazodone is used with a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, the risk of adverse reactions, including cardiac arrhythmias, may be increased and a lower dose of trazodone should be considered [see Dosage and Administration (2.5), Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Examples itraconazole, ketoconazole, clarithromycin, indinavir Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact The concomitant use of trazodone and strong CYP3A4 inducers decreased the exposure of trazodone compared to the use of trazodone alone . Intervention Patients should be closely monitored to see if there is a need for an increased dose of trazodone when taking CYP3A4 inducers [see Dosage and Administration (2.5)]. Examples rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin, St. John's wort Digoxin and Phenytoin Clinical Impact Digoxin and phenytoin are narrow therapeutic index drugs. Intervention Measure serum digoxin or phenytoin concentrations before initiating concomitant use of trazodone. Examples digoxin, phenytoin Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact Trazodone may enhance the response CNS depressants. Intervention Patients should be counseled that trazodone may enhance the response to alcohol, barbiturates, and other CNS depressants. Examples alcohol, barbiturates QT Interval Prolongation Clinical Impact Concomitant use of drugs that prolong the QT interval may add to the QT effects of trazodone and increase the risk of cardiac arrhythmia. Intervention Avoid the use of trazodone in combination with other drugs known to prolong QTc [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] . Examples Class 1A antiarrhythmics: quinidine, procainamide, disopyramide; Class 3 antiarrhythmics: amiodarone, sotalol; Antipsychotics: ziprasidone, chlorpromazine, thioridazine; Antibiotics: gatifloxacin 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CNS Depressants: Trazodone may enhance effects of alcohol, barbiturates, or other CNS depressants (7) . CYP3A4 Inhibitors: Consider trazodone dose reduction based on tolerability (2.5 , 7) . CYP3A4 Inducers: Increase in trazodone dosage may be necessary (2.5 , 7) . Digoxin or Phenytoin: Monitor for increased digoxin or phenytoin serum levels (7) . Warfarin: Monitor for increased or decreased prothrombin time (7) . Intervention: Trazodone is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Contraindications (4) , Dosage and Administration (2.3 , 2.4) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of trazodone and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio (INR) when initiating or discontinuing trazodone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Examples: warfarin, rivaroxaban, dabigatran, clopidogrel Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of trazodone and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the exposure of trazodone compared to the use of trazodone alone. Intervention: If trazodone is used with a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, the risk of adverse reactions, including cardiac arrhythmias, may be increased and a lower dose of trazodone should be considered [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) , Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Examples: itraconazole, ketoconazole, clarithromycin, indinavir Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of trazodone and strong CYP3A4 inducers decreased the exposure of trazodone compared to the use of trazodone alone. Intervention: Patients should be closely monitored to see if there is a need for an increased dose of trazodone when taking CYP3A4 inducers [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Intervention: Avoid the use of trazodone in combination with other drugs known to prolong QTc [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Trazodone Hydrochloride Tablets Table 3: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Trazodone Hydrochloride Tablets Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of MAOIs and serotonergic drugs including trazodone increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Trazodone is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 , 2.4 ), and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of trazodone and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio (INR) when initiating or discontinuing trazodone [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )]. Intervention: If trazodone is used with a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, the risk of adverse reactions, including cardiac arrhythmias, may be increased and a lower dose of trazodone should be considered [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Intervention: Patients should be closely monitored to see if there is a need for an increased dose of trazodone when taking CYP3A4 inducers [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )]. Intervention: Avoid the use of trazodone in combination with other drugs known to prolong QTc [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CNS Depressants: Trazodone Hydrochloride Tablets may enhance effects of alcohol, barbiturates, or other CNS depressants ( 7 ). CYP3A4 Inhibitors: Consider Trazodone Hydrochloride Tablets dose reduction based on tolerability ( 2.5 , 7 ). CYP3A4 Inducers: Increase in Trazodone Hydrochloride Tablets dosage may be necessary ( 2.5 , 7 ). 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions With Trazodone Hydrochloride Tablets Table 3: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Trazodone Hydrochloride Tablets Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of MAOIs and serotonergic drugs including Trazodone hydrochloride tablets increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Trazodone hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Contraindications (4) , Dosage and Administration (2.3 , 2.4) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Examples: isocarboxazid, moclobemide, phenelzine, selegiline, tranylcypromine Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of serotonergic drugs including Trazodone hydrochloride tablets and other serotonergic drugs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during Trazodone hydrochloride tablets initiation. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of Trazodone hydrochloride tablets and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. The concurrent use of an antiplatelet agent or anticoagulant with Trazodone hydrochloride tablets may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Intervention: Inform patients of the increased risk of bleeding with the concomitant use of Trazodone hydrochloride tablets and antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio (INR) when initiating or discontinuing Trazodone hydrochloride tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Examples: warfarin, rivaroxaban, dabigatran, clopidogrel Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of Trazodone hydrochloride tablets and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the exposure of trazodone compared to the use of Trazodone hydrochloride tablets alone. Intervention: If Trazodone hydrochloride tablets are used with a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, the risk of adverse reactions, including cardiac arrhythmias, may be increased and a lower dose of Trazodone hydrochloride tablets should be considered [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) , Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Examples: itraconazole, ketoconazole, clarithromycin, indinavir Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of Trazodone hydrochloride tablets and strong CYP3A4 inducers decreased the exposure of trazodone compared to the use of Trazodone hydrochloride tablets alone. Intervention: Patients should be closely monitored to see if there is a need for an increased dose of Trazodone hydrochloride tablets when taking CYP3A4 inducers [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. John’s wort Digoxin and Phenytoin Clinical Impact: Digoxin and phenytoin are narrow therapeutic index drugs. Concomitant use of Trazodone hydrochloride tablets can increase digoxin or phenytoin concentrations. Intervention: Measure serum digoxin or phenytoin concentrations before initiating concomitant use of Trazodone hydrochloride tablets. Examples: digoxin, phenytoin Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Trazodone hydrochloride tablets may enhance the response CNS depressants. Intervention: Patients should be counseled that Trazodone hydrochloride tablets may enhance the response to alcohol, barbiturates, and other CNS depressants. Examples: alcohol, barbiturates QT Interval Prolongation Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of drugs that prolong the QT interval may add to the QT effects of Trazodone hydrochloride tablets and increase the risk of cardiac arrhythmia. Intervention Avoid the use of Trazodone hydrochloride tablets in combination with other drugs known to prolong QTc [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ].

=== CETIRIZINE HCL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antihistamine Antihistamine
Indications: Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: runny nose sneezing itchy, watery eyes itching of the nose or throat Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: • runny nose • sneezing • itchy, watery eyes • itching of the nose or throat Temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: • runny nose, • sneezing, • itchy, watery eyes, • itching of the nose or throat Temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: runny nose, sneezing, itchy, watery eys, itching of the nose or throat Uses: Temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: runny nose sneezing itchy, watery eyes itching of the nose or throat
Dosage: Directions Adults and children 6 years and over One 10 mg capsule once daily; do not take more than one 10 mg capsule in 24 hours. A 5 mg product may be appropriate for less severe symptoms. Adults 65 years and over ask a doctor. Children under 6 years of age ask a doctor Consumers with liver or kidney disease ask a doctor Directions • use only with enclosed dosing cup • find right dose on chart below • mL = milliliter adults and children 6 years and over 5 mL or 10 mL once daily depending upon severity of symptoms; do not take more than 10 mL in 24 hours. adults 65 years and over 5 mL once daily; do not take more than 5 mL in 24 hours. children 2 to under 6 years of age 2.5 mL once daily. If needed, dose can be increased to a maximum of 5 mL once daily or 2.5 mL every 12 hours. Do not give more than 5 mL in 24 hours. children under 2 years of age ask a doctor consumers with liver or kidney disease ask a doctor Cetirizine Hydrochloride Tablets, USP 5 mg adults and children 6 years and over 1 tablet (5 mg) or 2 tablets (10) once daily depending upon severity of symptoms; do not take more than 2 tablets (10) in 24 hours. adults 65 years and over 1 tablet (5 mg) once a day; do not take more than 1 tablet (5 mg) in 24 hours. children under 6 years of age ask a doctor consumers with liver or kidney disease ask a doctor Cetirizine Hydrochloride Tablets, USP 10 mg adults and children 6 years and over one 10 mg tablet once daily; do not take more than one 10 mg tablet in 24 hours. adults 65 years and over ask a doctor children under 6 years of age ask a doctor consumers with liver or kidney disease ask a doctor Adult and children over 6 years old: One 10mg tablet once daily: no more than one 10mg tablet in 24 hours. A 5mg product may be appropriate for less severe symptoms Adults 65 years and over: ask a doctor Children under 6 years of age: ask a doctor Consumers with liver or kidney disease : ask a doctor children under 2 years of age ask a doctor consumers with liver or kidney disease ask a doctor Other information • store between 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) • do not use if carton is opened, or if printed neckband is broken or missing • see bottom panel for lot number and expiration date Directions Adults and children 6 years of age and older: One 10 mg tablet once daily; do not take more than one 10 mg tablet in 24 hours. Children under 6 years of age: Ask a doctor. Adults 65 years of age and older: Ask a doctor. Consumers with liver or kidney disease: Ask a doctor
Warnings: Warning Warnings Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients or to an antihistamine containing hydroxyzine. Ask a doctor before use if you have liver or kidney disease. Your doctor should determine if you need a different dose. Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking tranquilizers or sedatives. When using this product • drowsiness may occur • avoid alcoholic drinks • alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness • be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs. Seek medical help right away. If pregnant or breast-feeding: • if breast-feeding: not recommended • if pregnant: ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222) Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients or an antihistamine containing hydroxyzine Ask a doctor before useif you have liver or kidney disease. Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking tranquilizers or sedatives When using this product • drowsiness may occur • avoid alcoholic drinks • alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness • be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222) Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients or an antihistamine containing hydroxyzine Ask a doctor before use if you have liver or kidney disease. Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product drowsiness may occur. Avoid alcoholic drinks. Alcohol, sedatives and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness. Be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery. Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs. When using this product drowsiness may occur alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness avoid alcoholic drinks be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs. If pregnant or breast-feeding: if breast-feeding: not recommended if pregnant: ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children. Warnings: Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients or to an antihistamine containing hydroxyzine.

=== MAGNESIUM HYDROXIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Saline laxative Purpose Antacid Antacid Antigas Purposes Antacid Antigas Purposes Antacid Antacid Antigas Active ingredients (in each 5 mL = 1 teaspoonful) Purpose Aluminum hydroxide (equiv. to dried gel, USP) 200 mg Antacid Magnesium hydroxide 200 mg Antacid Simethicone 20 mg Antigas Saline laxative
Indications: Uses relieves occasional constipation (irregularity) generally produces bowel movement in 1/2 to 6 hours Uses relieves: heartburn acid indigestion pressure, bloating and discomfort commonly referred to as gas Uses relieves heartburn sour stomach acid indigestion the symptoms referred to as gas Uses for the relief of: ■ heartburn ■ sour stomach ■ acid indigestion ■ upset stomach associated with these symptoms ■ pressure and bloating, commonly referred to as gas, associated with these symptoms Uses for the relief of: • acid indigestion • heartburn • sour stomach • upset stomach due to these symptoms • pressure and bloating commonly referred to as gas Uses for relief of occasional constipation (irregularity) this product generally produces bowel movement in 1/2 to 6 hours Use Use relieves occasional constipation (irregularity). This product usually produces bowel movement in ½ to 6 hours. Use relieves occasional constipation (irregularity).
Dosage: Directions shake well before use do not exceed the maximum recommended daily dose in a 24 hour period dose may be taken once a day preferably at bedtime, in divided doses, or as directed by a doctor drink a full glass (8 oz) of liquid with each dose for accurate dosing, only use the dosing cup provided mL = milliliter age dose adults and children 12 years and over 30 mL to 60 mL children 6 to 11 years 15 mL to 30 mL children under 6 years ask a doctor Directions chew 2-4 tablets completely as symptoms occur or as directed by a doctor. Do not swallow tablets whole. Directions shake well before use adults and children 12 years of age and older: take 2 to 4 teaspoonfuls between meals, at bedtime, or as directed by a doctor do not take more than 16 teaspoonfuls in any 24 hour period or use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions shake well before use adults and children 12 years and older: take 2 to 4 teaspoonfuls between meals, at bedtime, or as directed by a doctor do not take more than 24 teaspoonfuls in 24 hours or use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions ■ chew 2-3 tablets as symptoms occur, or as directed by a doctor Directions • shake well before using • do not take more than 16 teaspoonfuls in 24 hours or use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks adults and children 12 years and older take 2 to 4 teaspoonfuls four times a day or as directed by a physician children under 12 years consult a physician Directions drink a full glass (8 oz) of liquid with each dose dose may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses do not exceed the maximum recommended daily dose in a 24 hour period adults and children 12 years of age and over - 2 to 4 chews children 6 to 12 years of age - 1 to 2 chews children under 6 years of age - ask a doctor Directions ● do not exceed the maximum recommended daily dose in a 24 hour period ● shake well before use ● dose may be taken once a day preferably at bedtime, in divided doses, or as directed by a doctor. Drink a full glass (8 oz) of liquid with each dose. ● for accurate dosing, only use the dosing cup provided ● mL = milliliter adults and children 12 years and older 30 mL to 60 mL children 6 to 11 years 15 mL to 30 mL children under 6 years ask a doctor Directions do not exceed the maximum recommended daily dose in a 24 hour period shake well before use dose may be taken once a day preferably at bedtime, in divided doses, or as directed by a doctor. for accurate dosing, only use the dosing cup provided mL = milliliter adults and children 12 years and older 30 mL to 60 mL children 6 to 11 years 15 mL to 30 mL children under 6 years ask a doctor
Warnings: Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have kidney disease a magnesium-restricted diet stomach pain, nausea, or vomiting a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over 14 days ​ Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug. This product may interact with certain prescription drugs. Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or no bowel movement after using this product. These could be signs of a serious condition. you need to use a laxative for more than 1 week If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have kidney disease a magnesium-restricted diet stomach pain, nausea, or vomiting a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over 14 days Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (800) 222-1222. Warnings Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are now taking a prescription drug. Antacids may interact with certain prescription drugs. When using this product Do not take more than 8 tablets in a 24-hour period Do not use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks Keep out of reach of children. Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have kidney disease a magnesium-restricted diet Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug. Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms last more than 2 weeks If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. When using this product ■ do not take more than 7 tablets in a 24-hour period ■ do not use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks Keep out of reach of children. Warnings Do not take more than 16 teaspoonfuls in a 24-hour period or use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks except under the advice and supervision of a physician. Ask a doctor before use if you have • kidney disease • a magnesium-restricted diet Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug. Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms last more than 2 weeks. Warnings Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you have kidney disease a magnesium-restricted diet stomach pain, nausea or vomiting noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that last over 2 weeks Do not give to children under 5 years of age unless directed by a doctor Warnings Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients.

=== SULFUR ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: PURPOSE: May temporarily relieve sinus congestion, runny nose, and sneezing.** **Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. Not FDA evaluated. PURPOSE: May help support the body's natural defense mechanisms and may temporarily relieve symptoms such as: • tendency towards colds or flu • intermittent joint pain • weakness and fatigue • occasional sleeplessness** **Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. MEB Gluco-Vitality Patch Active Ingredients Purpose Ferum Metalicum 7X HPUS …………………… Congestion of Blood Magnesia Sulphurica 7X HPUS ……………….. Diabetes Phosphorus 6X HPUS …………………………… Vascular Deases Calcarea Fluorata 6X HPUS …………………… Vessels-lipids Zincum Metallicum 8X HPUS ………………….. Varicose Vein Vanadium Metallicum 12X HPUS……………….. Atheroma of Arteries Sulphur 4X HPUS…………………………………. Varicosities MEB PainGuard Patch Active Ingredient ................................................ Purpose Alumina Silicata 5X HPUS.………………………. Muscle Pain Calcarea Silicata 5X HPUS………………..…….. Joint Pain Calcarea Fluorata 6X HPUS……………………. Joint Pain, Inflammation Ferrum Phosphoricum 7X HPUS.………………. Inflammation, Articular Rheumatism Ferrum Muriaticum 7X HPUS…………………… Rheumatism Pain Natrum Nitricum 5X HPUS……………………… Inflammation Magnesia Muriatica 7X HPUS…………………. Inflammation Maganum Metallicum 12X HPUS……………… Gout, Chronic Arthritis Sulphur 4X HPUS………………………………… Pain, Inflammation Vanadium Metallicum 12X HPUS………………. Gout Zincum Metalicum 8X …………………………….. Cramping, Pain, Sore OTC - PURPOSE SECTION Formulated for symptoms associated with colds and infections such as cough, fatigue, fever, headache and indigestion. Begin at the onset of symptoms. Temporarily relieves: common pain or itching from swimmer’s ear, clogged ears, ear pain or itching from other earaches, after diagnosis by a physician OTC - PURPOSE SECTION Formulated for symptoms associated with food and environmental allergens such as congestion, swollen glands, runny nose, cough, rashes and stomach upset. Active Ingredients Purpose Silicea 4X HPUS ………………………………….. Asthma, immune deficiency Sulphur 4X HPUS………………………………….. Asthma Ferrum Phosphoricum 7X HPUS.………………… Stomach Disease Ferrum Muriaticum 7X HPUS…………………….. Asthma, Stomach Disease Titanium Metallicum 7X……………………………. Rhinitis Natrum Nitricum 5X HPUS……………………….. Stomach Disease Calcarea Fluorata 6X HPUS……………………… Rhinitis Phosphorus 6X HPUS…………………………….. Stomach Disease Magnesia Sulphurica 7X HPUS …………………. Diabetes, Stomach Disease Magnesia Muriatica 7X HPUS…………………. Stomach Disease Zincum Metalicum 8X …………………………….. Stomach Disease Uses : Temporarily relieves symptoms associated with allergic responses to animals.** Purpose: For the temporary relief of heartburns, acid reflux and dyspepsia.
Indications: INDICATIONS: May temporarily relieve sinus congestion, runny nose, and sneezing.** **Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. Not FDA evaluated. INDICATIONS: May help support the body's natural defense mechanisms and may temporarily relieve symptoms such as: • tendency towards colds or flu • intermittent joint pain • weakness and fatigue • occasional sleeplessness** **Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. The MEB PainGuard Patch is designed to provide effective pain relief and treat various types of pain, providing fast-acting and long-lasting relief from pain, helping to alleviate discomfort caused by muscle pain, nerve pain, and other common types of pain. This innovative patch targets and treats the underlying inflammation that causes pain to help eliminate the root cause of pain, leading to more effective and sustainable pain relief. The Gluco Vitality Patch assists individuals with diabetes in stabilizing their blood sugar levels while promoting vascular health to provide a comprehensive approach to diabetes care. By promoting vascular health, the GlucoVitaPatch aims to improve circulation and support the prevention and treatment of vascular diseases commonly associated with diabetes. INDICATIONS & USAGE SECTION Formulated for symptoms associated with colds and infections such as cough, fatigue, fever, headache and indigestion. Begin at the onset of symptoms. Uses* Temporarily relieves: ■ common pain or itching from swimmer’s ear ■ clogged ears ■ ear pain or itching from other earaches, after diagnosis by a physician INDICATIONS & USAGE SECTION Formulated for symptoms associated with food and environmental allergens such as congestion, swollen glands, runny nose, cough, rashes and stomach upset. MEB Puri-Mega “Potent mineral concentrate with exceptional health benefits. Offers unparalleled support for overall well-being, including asthma, immune deficiency, rhinitis, diabetes and more.” Usage: Puri-Mega is a potent mineral concentrate enriched with various health benefits. Extracted from beneficial minerals known for their exceptional absorbability in the human body, this health blend offers unparalleled support for overall well-being. The natural healing and preventive properties of Puriton Mineral, a 100% pure mineral extract sourced from nature offer exceptional effectiveness in conditions such as asthma, immune deficiency, stomach disease, rhinitis, and diabetes. Uses : Temporarily relieves symptoms associated with allergic responses to animals. Indications & Usage: Turn tube upside down, twist cap to break seal & release pellets. Using clear cap, place 3 pellets to dissolve under your tongue before meals or as needed. Take apart from food or drinks. To preserve purity avoid touching pellets with fingers.
Dosage: DIRECTIONS: Adults and children 5 to 10 drops orally, 3 times daily or as otherwise directed by a health care professional. If symptoms persist for more than 7 days, consult your health care professional. Consult a physician for use in children under 12 years of age. DIRECTIONS: Adults Only: Spray twice under the tongue three times a day. This bottle contains about a 1 month supply. Some notice improvement within 2 to 3 weeks, others longer. MEB Painguard Patch Direction With clean hands, peel off the clear cover attached to the patch. Apply the patch carefully onto the area where you are experiencing pain. Fold the patch using your thumb and index finger, then peel off the protective tape from the top and bottom surfaces. After attaching the patch, press firmly on it with your fingers around 10 times to ensure that the needles penetrate the skin for optimal effectiveness. Leave the patch on for a minimum of 8 hours without removing. If pain relief is achieved even after a minimum of 8 hours with the patch on, you may continue to wear it. If the pain returns after 8 hours, apply a new patch following the same method. MEB Gluco-Vitality Patch Direction Use 2 patch at a time With clean hands, peel off the clear cover attached to the patch. Apply the patches just below the area of your left and right ears. Align the adhesive side of the patch with the backline of your ear. Before applying the patch, measure your blood sugar level. After a minimum of 8 hours with the patch on, measure your blood sugar level again. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION Directions: Ages 12 and up, take 6 drops by mouth (ages 0 to 11, give 3 drops) as need or as directed by a health professional. Sensitive person begin with 1 drop and gradually increase to full dose. Directions Adults and children ages 4 years and over: ■ Tilt head sideways and apply 3-4 drops into involved ear (tip of applicator should not enter ear canal). ■ Keep head tilted for at least 2 minutes to keep drops in ear. ■ Repeat until relieved, up to 4 times per day. ■ Use as directed. ■ Do not refrigerate. ■ Shake well before using. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION Directions: Ages 12 and up take 6 drops by mouth (ages 0 to 11, give 3 drops) as needed or directed by a health professional. Sensitive persons begin with 1 drop and gradually increase to full dose. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION Directions: Ages 12 and up take 6 pellets (ages 0 to 11, give 3 pellets) as needed or directed by a health professional. Under age 2, crush/dissolve pellets in purified water. Sensitive persons begin with 1 pellet and gradually increase to full dose. Take 30ml once daily in the morning on an empty stomach. For effective absorption, do not swallow immediately; hold under the tongue for 2-3 minutes before swallowing. It can also be consumed by mixing 1:1 with water, as needed. Usage as an Additive for Herbal Medicine: Mix 30 ml or 50 ml with medication as an additive when boiling. Removes toxins from the medication. Aids in nanonization, enabling better absorption of medicinal ingredients. Provides concentrated extraction without the need for re-boiling. Preserves the minerals without any loss or change in properties. For oral inflammation: Gargle with Puri-Mega 10 ml for 10 minutes or more, three times a day, to help with oral inflammation caused by weakened immunity. Directions: Adults & children above 12 years: 10 drops orally 3 times daily, or as directed by a health care professional. Dosage & Administration: Turn tube upside down, twist cap to break seal & release pellets. Using clear cap, place 3 pellets to dissolve under your tongue before meals or as needed. Take apart from food or drinks. To preserve purity avoid touching pellets with fingers.
Warnings: WARNINGS: If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Do not use if tamper evident seal is broken or missing. Store in a cool, dry place. WARNINGS: Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients. Ask a doctor before use if you have been diagnosed with a condition known to weaken immunity such as HIV, the virus that causes AIDS. Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms persist for more than 7 days, worsen, or if new symptoms occur. In case of overdose, get medical help or call a Poison Control Center right away. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Do not use if TAMPER EVIDENT seal around neck of bottle is missing or broken. Store at room temperature. Do not Use *If the needles inside the patch do not cause a tingling sensation, do not use it and replace it with a new patch. *If headaches, dizziness, or any discomfort persist for more than 5 minutes, discontinue use. Consult a physician if: *Symptoms persist for more than 7 days or worsen. When using this product: *Due to its sensitivity to moisture, do not store the patch in the refrigerator, and it should be used immediately after opening. Keep out of reach of Children WARNINGS SECTION WARNINGS: Keep out of reach of children. Do not use if tamper-evident seal is broken or missing. If symptoms worsen or persist for more than a few days, consult a doctor. If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a doctor before use. Warnings Keep away from eyes. Do not use if you have ear tubes, damaged ear drums or after ear surgery. Stop use and ask a doctor if: ■ symptoms persist for more than 48 hours or worsen. ■ any discharge from ear is present. ■ symptoms are accompanied by a fever. If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use. Do not Use Individuals with specific sensitivities to ingredients or allergies should check the list of ingredients before consumption. If your symptoms do not improve and worsen even after 7 days, discontinue use and consult a doctor for further advice. Consult a physician: If pregnant, breastfeeding, or undergoing treatment for any medical condition, please consult a physician before taking it. WARNINGS : Consult a physician for use in children under 12 years of age. IF PREGNANT OR BREAST-FEEDING , ask a health care professional before use. KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN . In case of overdose (or accidental ingestion) get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings: If symptoms persist or worsen, or if pregnant or nursing, consult a doctor. Do not use if cap seal is broken or missing.

=== DEXTROMETHORPHAN HYDROBROMIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purposes Pain reliever/fever reducer Cough suppressant Nasal decongestant Purpose Cough Suppressant Expectorant Purpose Pain reliever/fever reducer Cough suppressant Expectorant Nasal decongestant Purpose Pain reliever/fever reducer Cough suppressant Nasal decongestant Active ingredients (in each 20 mL) Purposes Dextromethorphan HBr 20 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 400 mg Expectorant Phenylephrine HCl 10 mg Nasal decongestant Purpose Pain reliever/fever reducer Cough suppressant Antihistamine Purposes Cough suppressant Expectorant Nasal decongestant Active ingredients (in each caplet) Purpose Acetaminophen 325 mg Pain reliever/fever reducer Dextromethorphan HBr 10 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 200 mg Expectorant Phenylephrine HCl 5 mg Nasal decongestant Purposes Antihistamine Cough suppressant
Indications: Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to a cold minor aches and pains headache nasal and sinus congestion sore throat cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation temporarily reduces fever Uses Uses: temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to drain bronchial tubes. Uses temporarily relieves common cold/flu symptoms: • nasal congestion • sinus congestion and pressure • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation • minor aches and pains • headache • fever • sore throat • reduces swelling of nasal passages • temporarily restores freer breathing through the nose • promotes nasal and/or sinus drainage • helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive Uses • temporarily relieves common cold/flu symptoms: • nasal congestion • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation • sore throat • headache • minor aches and pains • fever Uses helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive temporarily relieves: cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants the intensity of coughing the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep nasal congestion due to a cold Uses temporarily relieves these common cold/flu symptoms: minor aches and pains headache sore throat fever runny nose and sneezing cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation Uses • Helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to drain bronchial tubes • Temporarily relieves these symptoms occurring with a cold: • nasal congestion • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation. Uses temporarily relieves these common cold and flu symptoms: nasal congestion headache cough minor aches and pains sore throat sinus congestion and pressure temporarily reduces fever helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive INDICATIONS AND USAGE Brompheniramine maleate, pseudoephedrine hydrochloride, and dextromethorphan hydrobromide syrup is indicated for relief of coughs and upper respiratory symptoms, including nasal congestion, associated with allergy or the common cold. Uses • temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold • temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: • runny nose • sneezing • itchy, watery eyes • itching of the nose or throat
Dosage: Directions do not take more than directed (see overdose warning ) do not take more than 6 doses (180 mL) in any 24-hour period measure only with dosing cup provided. Do not use any other dosing device. mL= milliliter keep dosing cup with product adults and children 12 years and over 30 mL every 4 hours chlldren under 12 years of age: do not use Directions Do not give more than 6 doses in any 24 hours period  shake well before use  measure only with dosing cup provided  keep dosing cup with product  mL = milliliter Age Dose Children 6 to under 12 years of age 5 mL every 4 hours Children 4 to under 6 years of age 2.5 mL every 4 hours Children under 4 years of age Do not use Directions • take only as directed – see Overdose warning • only use the dose cup provided • do not exceed 4 doses per 24 hrs adults & children 12 yrs & over 30 mL every 4 hrs children 6 to under 12 yrs 15 mL every 4 hrs children 4 to under 6 yrs ask a doctor children under 4 yrs do not use Other information • each 15 mL contains: sodium 6 mg • store at 20-25 ° C (68-77 ° F). Do not refrigerate. Directions • take only as directed – see Overdose warning • only use the dose cup provided • do not exceed 4 doses per 24 hrs adults & children 12 yrs & over 30 mL every 4 hrs children 6 to under 12 yrs 15 mL every 4 hrs children 4 to under 6 yrs ask a doctor children under 4 yrs do not use Directions do not take more than 6 doses in any 24-hour period measure only with dosing cup provided do not use dosing cup with other products dose as follows or as directed by a doctor mL = milliliter adults and children 12 years of age and older: 20 mL in dosing cup provided every 4 hours. children under 12 years of age: Do not use. Directions do not take more than directed (see overdose warning) do not take more than 4 doses in any 24-hours period measure only with dosing cup provided. mL= milliliter keep dosing cup with product adults and children 12 years and over: 30 mL every 6 hours children under 12 years of age: do not use When using other Day Time or Night Time products, carefully read each label to insure correct dosing Directions • do not take more than 4 doses in any 24-hour period. AGE DOSE Adults and Children 12 years of age and over Take 1 teaspoonfuls (5 mL) every 6 hours Children under 12 years of age ask a doctor Directions do not take more than directed (see Overdose warning ) do not take more than 12 caplets in any 24-hour period adults and children 12 years of age and older: take 2 caplets every 4 hours children under 12 years of age: do not use DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and over: 10 mL (2 teaspoonfuls) every 4 hours. Children 6 to under 12 years of age: 5 mL (1 teaspoonful) every 4 hours. Children 2 to under 6 years of age: 2.5 mL (½ teaspoonful) every 4 hours. Infants 6 months to under 2 years of age: Dosage to be established by a physician. Do not exceed 6 doses during a 24-hour period. Directions • SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING • measure only with dosing cup provided • keep dosing cup with product • mL = milliliter • do not take more than 4 doses in any 24-hour period Age Dose Adults and children 12 years and older 20 mL every 6 hours Children 6 to under 12 years 10 mL every 6 hours Children under 6 years do not use
Warnings: Warnings Liver warning: This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take: more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may inclide: skin reddening blisters rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Sore throat warning: If sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease) or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product. with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or non-prescription). If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen, ask a doctor or pharmacist. Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease heart disease diabetes high blood pressure thyroid disease trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, or emphysema Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin. When using this product, do not exceed recommended dosage Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occur pain, cough, or nasal congestion gets worse or lasts more than 7 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur cough comes back or occurs with a rash or headache that lasts. These could be signs of a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. Overdose warning: Taking more than the recommended dose (overdose) may cause liver damage. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. Warnings Do not use in child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional condition, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your child’s prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product. Severe liver damage may occur if • adult takes more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours • child takes more than 5 doses in 24 hours • taken with other drugs containing acetaminophen • adult has 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: • skin reddening • blisters • rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Do not use • with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have • liver disease • heart disease • thyroid disease • diabetes • high blood pressure • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • you get nervous, dizzy or sleepless • pain, nasal congestion, or cough gets worse or lasts more than 5 days (children) or 7 days (adults) • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • redness or swelling is present • new symptoms occur • cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts. Overdose warning: In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have • liver disease • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, or emphysema Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • you get nervous, dizzy or sleepless • pain, nasal congestion or cough gets worse or lasts more than 5 days (children) or 7 days (adults) • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • redness or swelling is present • new symptoms occur • cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts. Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease high blood pressure thyroid disease diabetes trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis or emphysema cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness or sleeplessness occur symptoms do not get better within 7 days or occur with fever cough comes back, or occurs with rash or persistent headache. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222) Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 4,000 mg in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash. If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away Sore throat warning: If sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or is followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen, ask a doctor or pharmacist Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease glaucoma cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) a breathing problem or chronic cough that lasts or as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis,or emphysema trouble urinating due to enlarged prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers the blood thinning drug warfarin When using this product excitability may occur, especially in children marked drowsiness may occur avoid alcoholic drinks be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery alcohol, sedatives and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness Stop use and ask a doctor if pain or cough gets worse or lasts more than 7 days new symptoms occur fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts. Overdose warning : Taking more than the recommended dose (overdose) may cause liver damage. Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) • cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis or emphysema. Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other oral nasal decongestant or stimulant. When using this product • do not exceed recommended dosage Stop use and ask a doctor if • you get nervous, dizzy or sleepless • symptoms do not get better within 7 days or are accompanied by fever • coughs lasts more than 7 days, comes back, or is accompanied by fever, rash, or a persistent headache. If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children . Warnings Liver warning This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 12 caplets in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks daily while using this product Allergy alert Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Sore throat warning If sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. Do not use with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease heart disease diabetes high blood pressure thyroid disease trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occur pain, nasal congestion, or cough gets worse or lasts more than 7 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts These could be signs of a serious condition. Overdose warning Taking more than the recommended dose (overdose) may cause liver damage. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). WARNINGS Especially in infants and small children, antihistamines in overdosage may cause hallucinations, convulsions, and death. Antihistamines may diminish mental alertness. In the young child, they may produce excitation. Warnings Do not use • to sedate a child or make a child sleepy • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product Ask a doctor before use if you have • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • glaucoma • a cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) • a breathing problem or chronic cough that lasts or as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis or emphysema Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product • Do not use more than directed • marked drowsiness may occur • avoid alcoholic drinks • alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness • be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery • excitability may occur, especially in children Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days, comes back, or is accompanied by fever, rash, or persistent headache.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients. Do not use in the newborn, in premature infants, in nursing mothers, or in patients with severe hypertension or severe coronary artery disease. Do not use dextromethorphan in patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) (see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ). Antihistamines should not be used to treat lower respiratory tract conditions including asthma.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) Hyperpyrexia, hypotension, and death have been reported coincident with the coadministration of MAOI and products containing dextromethorphan. In addition, MAOI prolong and intensify the anticholinergic (drying) effects of antihistamines and may enhance the effect of pseudoephedrine. Concomitant administration of brompheniramine maleate, pseudoephedrine hydrochloride, and dextromethorphan hydrobromide syrup and MAOI should be avoided (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Central nervous system (CNS) depressants Antihistamines have additive effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants (hypnotics, sedatives, tranquilizers, antianxiety agents, etc.). Antihypertensive drugs Sympathomimetic may reduce the effects of antihypertensive drugs.

=== AND PHENYLEPHRINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Active ingredients (in each 10 mL) Purposes Acetaminophen 325 mg Pain reliever/fever reducer Diphenhydramine HCl 12.5 mg Antihistamine/cough suppressant Phenylephrine HCl 5 mg Nasal decongestant Active ingredients (in each caplet) Purpose Acetaminophen 325 mg Pain reliever/fever reducer Guaifenesin 200 mg Expectorant Phenylephrine HCl 5 mg Nasal decongestant Active ingredients (in each caplet) Purpose Acetaminophen 325 mg Pain reliever/fever reducer Dextromethorphan HBr 10 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 200 mg Expectorant Phenylephrine HCl 5 mg Nasal decongestant Uses helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids temporarily shrinks hemorrhoidal tissue and relieves burning temporarily provides a coating for relief of anorectal discomforts temporarily protects the inflamed, irritated anorectal surface to help make bowel movements less painful Active Ingredients (in each tablet) Purpose Chlorpheniramine Maleate 4 mg Antihistamine Dextromethorphan HBr 10 mg Antitussive Phenylephrine HCl 10 mg Nasal Decongestant Active ingredients (in each liquid gel) Purposes Acetaminophen 325 mg Pain reliever Dextromethorphan HBr 10 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 200 mg Expectorant Phenylephrine HCl 5 mg Nasal decongestant
Indications: Uses temporarily relieves these common cold and flu symptoms: cough nasal congestion minor aches and pains sore throat headache runny nose sneezing temporarily reduces fever controls cough to help your child get to sleep Uses for the temporary relief of the following cold symptoms: minor aches and pains headache sore throat nasal congestion sinus congestion and pressure helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to make coughs more productive temporarily reduces fever Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms associated with hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies, and the common cold: sinus congestion and pressure headache nasal congestion minor aches and pains helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to make coughs more productive temporarily reduces fever Uses temporarily relieves these common cold and flu symptoms: nasal congestion headache cough minor aches and pains sore throat sinus congestion and pressure temporarily reduces fever helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive Directions adults: when practical, cleanse the affected area by patting or blotting with an appropriate cleansing wipe. Gently dry by patting or blotting with a tissue or a soft cloth before applying ointment. when first opening the tube, peel back foil seal apply to the affected area up to 4 times daily, especially at night, in the morning or after each bowel movement intrarectal use: remove cover from applicator, attach applicator to tube, lubricate applicator well and gently insert applicator into the rectum thoroughly cleanse applicator after each use and replace cover also apply ointment to external area regular use provides continual therapy for relief of symptoms children under 12 ask a doctor Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to the common cold, hay fever (allergic rhinitis) or other respiratory allergies: runny nose sneezing itching of the nose or throat itchy, watery eyes cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation nasal congestion reduces swelling of nasal passages Uses temporarily relieves: nasal congestion headache minor aches and pains cough sinus congestion and pressure temporarily promotes nasal and/or sinus drainage helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms associated with hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies, and the common cold: sinus congestion and pressure headache minor aches and pains nasal congestion helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive temporarily reduces fever
Dosage: Directions this product does not contain directions or complete warnings for adult use do not give more than directed (see Overdose warning ) measure only with dosing cup provided do not use dosing cup with other products dose as follows or as directed by a doctor children 6 to under 12 years of age: 10 mL in dosing cup provided every 4 hours while symptoms last; do not give more than 5 doses in any 24-hour period children under 6 years of age: do not use Directions do not take more than directed (see overdose warning ) adults and children 12 years and over take 2 caplets every 4 hours swallow whole – do not crush, chew, or dissolve do not take more than 10 caplets in 24 hours children under 12 years ask a doctor Directions do not take more than directed (see Overdose warning ) do not take more than 12 caplets in any 24-hour period adults and children 12 years of age and older: take 2 caplets every 4 hours children under 12 years of age: do not use DISTRIBUTED BY: WINCO FOODS, LLC, BOISE, ID 83704 MADE IN CHINA Directions Do not exceed recommended dosage. Adults and children 12 years of age and over: 1 tablet every 4 hours, not to exceed 6 tablets in 24 hours, or as directed by a doctor Children 6 to under 12 years of age: 1/2 tablet every 4 hours, not to exceed 3 tablets in 24 hours, or as directed by a doctor Children under 6 years of age: Consult a doctor. Directions do not take more than directed (see Overdose warning) do not take more than 12 liquid gels in any 24-hour period adults and children 12 years of age and over: take 2 liquid gels every 4 hours children under 12 years of age: do not use Directions do not take more than directed (see overdose warning ) adults and children 12 years and over take 2 caplets every 4 hours do not take more than 10 caplets in 24 hours children under 12 years ask a doctor
Warnings: Warnings Liver warning This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if your child takes: more than 5 doses in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount with other drugs containing acetaminophen Allergy alert Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Sore throat warning I f sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. Do not use with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen, ask a doctor or pharmacist. to make a child sleepy with any other product containing diphenhydramine, even one used on the skin in a child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your child's prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product. Ask a doctor before use if the child has liver disease heart disease diabetes high blood pressure thyroid disease glaucoma a breathing problem such as chronic bronchitis persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with asthma cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if the child is taking the blood thinning drug warfarin taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product do not use more than directed (see Overdose warning ) excitability may occur, especially in children marked drowsiness may occur sedatives and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occur pain, nasal congestion, or cough gets worse or lasts more than 5 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur cough comes back, or occurs with fever, rash, or headache that lasts. These could be signs of a serious condition. Keep out of reach of children. Overdose warning Taking more than the recommended dose (overdose) may cause liver damage. I n case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Quick medical attention is critical even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. The maximum daily dose of this product is 10 caplets (3,250 mg acetaminophen) in 24 hours. Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Sore throat warning If sore throat is severe, perists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product. if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease heart disease high blood pressure thyroid disease diabetes trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occur pain, nasal congestion, or cough gets worse or lasts more than 7 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts These could be signs of a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Overdose warning In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 12 caplets in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks daily while using this product Allergy alert Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Sore throat warning If sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease heart disease diabetes high blood pressure thyroid disease trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occur pain, nasal congestion, or cough gets worse or lasts more than 7 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts These could be signs of a serious condition. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Warnings For external and/or intrarectal use only Warnings Do not exceed recommended dosage. Do not use this product if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product Do not use this product, unless directed by a doctor, if you have a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis glaucoma a persistent or chronic cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) heart disease high blood pressure thyroid disease diabetes mellitus difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland Do not take this product if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers, without first consulting your doctor. When using this product excitability may occur, especially in children may cause marked drowsiness sedatives and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness effect avoid alcoholic beverages use caution when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occur cough or nasal congestion persists for more than 1 week, tends to recur, or is accompanied by a fever, rash or persistent headache. new symptoms occur If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of accidental overdose, seek professional help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. Severe liver damage may occur if you take: more than 12 liquid gels in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks daily while using this product Allergy alert Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease heart disease diabetes high blood pressure thyroid disease trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occur pain, nasal congestion, or cough gets worse or lasts more than 7 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur cough comes back, or occurs with fever, rash, or headache that lasts. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.

=== ARNICA MONTANA ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpuse:Bruise Relief. "HPUS" indicates that this ingredient is officially monographed in the Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia of the United States. PURPOSE Relieves • Joint Pain • Back Pain • Muscular Pain INDICATIONS: May temporarily relieve cold clammy feet, numbness of limbs, painful calves upon walking, muscular weakness of the lower extremities. *Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. Not FDA evaluated. For the temporary relief symptoms due to aging, scuh as: poor memory impaired concentration USES: Temporarily relieves these symptoms due to aging and/or a run-down condition: • low energy • poor muscle/fat balance • occasional sleeplessness INDICATIONS: For temporary relief of itching & mild burning in anus, chills up & down back, and hemorrhoids.** **Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. Purpose* Arnica montana 6C HPUS ... Temporarily relieves minor muscle pain Cuprum metallicum 4C HPUS ... Relieves sudden muscle cramps in the legs, calves, feet, and toes Magnesia phosphorica 6C HPUS ... Relieves flashing pain and cramps in the calves and thighs, at night Nux vomica 6C HPUS ... Relieves cramps in the legs, thighs, calves and toes, at night Passiflora incarnata 3X HPUS ... Helps to fall back asleep Secale cornutum 9C HPUS ... Relieves leg cramps at night HOMEOPATHIC INDICATIONS: For the temporary relief of symptoms of stress such as terror, horror, post traumatic stress, fight or flight response, recurring nightmares, difficulty sleeping, difficulty concentrating, restlessness, and easy irritability.** **These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. They have not been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration. Purpose* Relieves muscle pain & stiffness, swelling from injuries, discoloration from bruises
Indications: Uses: Temporarily relieves pain, swelling, and discoloration associated with: Bruises Minor falls Sports injuries Muscle soreness USES Uses For the temporary relief of minor: Muscular Pain, Joint Pain, Back Pain, Nerve Pain and Arthritis Pain. INDICATIONS: May temporarily relieve cold clammy feet, numbness of limbs, painful calves upon walking, muscular weakness of the lower extremities. INDICATIONS For the temporary relief of minor joint or muscle pain, inflammation, minor sprains or strains, bruises, or minor cuts or scrapes.* USES TAKE 15 MINUTES BEFORE MEALS USES: Temporarily relieves these symptoms due to aging and/or a run-down condition: • low energy • poor muscle/fat balance • occasional sleeplessness INDICATIONS: For temporary relief of itching & mild burning in anus, chills up & down back, and hemorrhoids.** **Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. Not FDA evaluated. Uses* temporarily relieves nighttime cramps in legs, thighs, calves, feet, and toes with accompanying occasional disrupted sleep HOMEOPATHIC INDICATIONS: For the temporary relief of symptoms of stress such as terror, horror, post traumatic stress, fight or flight response, recurring nightmares, difficulty sleeping, difficulty concentrating, restlessness, and easy irritability.** **These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. They have not been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration. Uses* temporarily relieves muscle pain and stiffness due to: minor injuries overexertion falls reduces symptoms of bruising such as: pain swelling discoloration
Dosage: Directions: Apply a thin layer to the affected area 2 to 3 times daily. Gently massage until absorbed. Use as soon as possible after minor injury. Directions Adults and children 12 years and older: 10 drops every 4 hours either under the tongue for MAX absorption or add to a cup of water and drink. Not exceed 60 drops per 24 hours. For children under 12 years: Consult your health professional. DIRECTIONS: Adults and children 5 to 10 drops orally, 1 to 2 times daily or as otherwise directed by a health care professional. If symptoms persist, consult your health care professional. Consult a physician for use in children under 12 years of age. DIRECTIONS Place drops under tongue 30 minutes before/after meals. Adults and children 12 years and over: Take 10 drops up to 3 times per day for up to 6 weeks. For immediate onset of symptoms, take 10 to 15 drops every 15 minutes up to 3 hours. For less severe symptoms, take 10-15 drops hourly up to 8 hours. DIRECTIONS Take 15 minutes before meals Adults : 20 drops in a little water, 2 times per day DIRECTIONS: Adults only. Spray twice under the tongue three times a day. DIRECTIONS: Adults and children 10 drops orally, 3 times daily or as otherwise directed by a health care professional. If symptoms persist for more than 7 days, consult your health care professional. Adults and children 18 years of age and older: At the onset of symptoms, dissolve 2 tablets in the mouth at bedtime and during the night if needed, for up to 6 times per 24 hours. Children under 18 years of age: Not recommended. DIRECTIONS: 1-10 drops under the tongue, 2 times a day or as directed by a health professional. Adults and children 6 years for age and older - At the onset of symptoms, dissolve 2 tablets in the mouth and repeat every hour for 2 more hours. Then, dissolve 2 tablets in the mouth every 6 hours until symptoms are relieved. Children 2 to 5 years of age: Dissolve 2 tablets in 1 tablespoon of water for easier intake. Follow directions above. Children under 2 years of age: Ask a doctor.
Warnings: For external use only Do not apply to broken skin or open wounds. Avoid contact with eyes. When using this product Avoid contact with eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if Condition worsens Symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days. If pregnant or breast-feeding Ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. WARNINGS If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. If symptoms persist or worsen, a health professional should be consulted . Do not use if known sensitivity to T-Relief TM or any of its ingredients exists. WARNINGS: If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health care professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Do not use if tamper evident seal is broken or missing. Store in cool, dry place. WARNINGS In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a poison control center right away. Keep out of the reach of children. If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a healthcare professional before use. WARNINGS Stop use and ask doctor if symptoms persist more than 5 days. If pregnant or breast-feeding ask a health professional before use. Contains ethyl alcohol 30% WARNINGS: Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients. Ask a doctor before use if you have consistent sleeplessness that persists for more than two weeks. Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms persist, worsen or if new symptoms occur. In case of overdose, get medical help or call a Poison Control Center right away. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before using product. Do not use if TAMPER EVIDENT seal around neck of bottle is missing or broken. Store at room temperature. WARNINGS: If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Store in a cool, dry place. WARNINGS: If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use.

=== PANTOPRAZOLE SODIUM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection is indicated for treatment of: gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and a history of erosive esophagitis (EE) for up to 10 days in adults. pathological hypersecretory conditions including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome in adults. Limitations of Use The safety and effectiveness of Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection for the treatment of upper gastrointestinal bleeding have not been established in adult or pediatric patients. Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc.'s PROTONIX® I.V. (pantoprazole sodium) for Injection. However, due to Pfizer Inc.'s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated for treatment of: gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and a history of erosive esophagitis (EE) for up to 10 days in adults. ( 1 ) pathological hypersecretion conditions including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome in adults. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use The safety and effectiveness of pantoprazole sodium for injection for the treatment of upper gastrointestinal bleeding have not been established in adult or pediatric patients. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated for: Pantoprazole sodium is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated for the following: Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated with Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) (1.1) Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis (1.2) Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome (1.3) 1.1 Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) Pantoprazole sodium is indicated in adults and pediatric patients five years of age and older for the short-term treatment (up to 8 weeks) in the healing and symptomatic relief of erosive esophagitis (EE). For those adult patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of pantoprazole sodium may be considered. Safety of treatment beyond 8 weeks in pediatric patients has not been established. 1.2 Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis Pantoprazole sodium is indicated for maintenance of healing of EE and reduction in relapse rates of daytime and nighttime heartburn symptoms in adult patients with GERD. Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 months. 1.3 Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome Pantoprazole sodium is indicated for the long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated for: Pantoprazole sodium is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated for the following: Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated with Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) ( 1.1 ) Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis ( 1.2 ) Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) Pantoprazole sodium is indicated in adults and pediatric patients five years of age and older for the short-term treatment (up to 8 weeks) in the healing and symptomatic relief of erosive esophagitis (EE). For those adult patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets may be considered. 1.2 Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis Pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated for maintenance of healing of EE and reduction in relapse rates of daytime and nighttime heartburn symptoms in adult patients with GERD. 1.3 Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Pantoprazole sodium is indicated for the long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome. Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets are indicated for: 1.1 Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablet is indicated in adults and pediatric patients five years of age and older for the short-term treatment (up to 8 weeks) in the healing and symptomatic relief of erosive esophagitis (EE). 1.3 Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets are indicated for the long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome. pathological hypersecretion conditions including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome in adults. Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc.’s PROTONIX ® I.V. However, due to Pfizer Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated for: Pantoprazole sodium is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated for the following: Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated with Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) ( 1.1 ) Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis ( 1.2 ) Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) Pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated in adults and pediatric patients five years of age and older for the short-term treatment (up to 8 weeks) in the healing and symptomatic relief of erosive esophagitis (EE). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE PROTONIX For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension and PROTONIX Delayed-Release Tablets are indicated for: PROTONIX is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated for the following: • Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated with Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) ( 1.1 ) • Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis ( 1.2 ) • Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) PROTONIX is indicated in adults and pediatric patients five years of age and older for the short-term treatment (up to 8 weeks) in the healing and symptomatic relief of erosive esophagitis (EE). For those adult patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of PROTONIX may be considered. 1.2 Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis PROTONIX is indicated for maintenance of healing of EE and reduction in relapse rates of daytime and nighttime heartburn symptoms in adult patients with GERD. 1.3 Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome PROTONIX is indicated for the long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pantoprazole sodium is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated in adults for the following: • Short-term treatment (7 to 10 days) of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) associated with a history of Erosive Esophagitis (EE). (1.1) • Pathological hypersecretion conditions including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome. (1.2) 1.1 Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease Associated with a History of Erosive Esophagitis Pantoprazole sodium for injection is indicated for short-term treatment (7 to 10 days) of adult patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and a history of erosive esophagitis (EE). Safety and efficacy of pantoprazole sodium for injection as a treatment of patients with GERD and a history of EE for more than 10 days have not been demonstrated. 1.2 Pathological Hypersecretion Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Pantoprazole sodium for injection is indicated for the treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome in adults.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION GERD and a History of EE Adults: The recommended dosage is 40 mg once daily by intravenous injection (over at least 2 minutes) or intravenous infusion (for 15 minutes) for up to 10 days. ( 2.1 ) Discontinue as soon as the patient is able to receive oral treatment. Switch to an appropriate oral medication within 10 days of starting pantoprazole sodium for injection. ( 2.1 ) Pathological Hypersecretion Conditions, Including ZE Syndrome The recommended adult dosage is 80 mg every 12 hours by intravenous injection (over at least 2 minutes) or intravenous infusion (for 15 minutes). ( 2.2 ) For information on how to adjust dosing for individual patient needs, see the full prescribing information. ( 2.2 ) When switching between intravenous to oral formulations of gastric acid inhibitors, consider the pharmacodynamic action of the drugs to ensure continuity of acid suppression. ( 2.2 ) Preparation and Administration Instructions See full prescribing information for preparation and administration instructions by indication. ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage for GERD Associated with a History of EE Adult Patients The recommended adult dosage of pantoprazole sodium for injection is 40 mg once daily by intravenous injection (over at least 2 minutes) or intravenous infusion (for 15 minutes) for up to 10 days. Discontinue pantoprazole sodium for injection as soon as the patient is able to tolerate oral treatment. Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc.'s PROTONIX® I.V. (pantoprazole sodium) for Injection. However, due to Pfizer Inc.'s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Pathological Hypersecretion Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome The recommended adult dosage of pantoprazole for injection is 80 mg every 12 hours by intravenous injection (over at least 2 minutes) or intravenous infusion (for 15 minutes). Adjust the frequency of dosing to individual patient needs based on acid output measurements. In those patients who need a higher dosage, 80 mg intravenously every 8 hours is expected to maintain acid output below 10 mEq/h. When switching between intravenous to oral formulations of gastric acid inhibitors, consider the pharmacodynamic action of the drugs to ensure continuity of acid suppression. 2.3 Preparation and Administration Instructions for GERD Associated with a History of EE 15-Minute Intravenous Infusion for Adult Patients 1. Reconstitute each vial of pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. 2. Dilute the resulting solution to a final concentration as described below: Adult patients : Further dilute with 100 mL 5% Dextrose Injection or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection to a final concentration of approximately 0.4 mg per mL. 3. Inspect the diluted pantoprazole sodium for injection solution visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to and during administration. 4. Withdraw the dose of the diluted pantoprazole sodium for injection solution for an adult dose. 6. Infuse intravenously over a period of approximately 15 minutes through a dedicated line or through a Y-site [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ) ] . 7. Flush the intravenous line before and after administration of pantoprazole sodium for injection with either 5% Dextrose Injection or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. Storage a. Store the reconstituted solution for up to 6 hours at room temperature up to 30°C (86°F) prior to further dilution. b. Store the diluted solution at room temperature up to 30°C (86°F) and must be used within 24 hours from the time of initial reconstitution. c. Do not freeze the reconstituted or diluted solution. 2-Minute Intravenous Injection for Adult Patients 1. Reconstitute each vial of pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, to a final concentration of approximately 4 mg per mL. Withdraw the dose of 40 mg of reconstituted pantoprazole sodium for injection solution. Administer intravenously over a period of at least 2 minutes. 5. Storage Store the reconstituted solution for up to 24 hours at room temperature up to 30°C (86°F) prior to intravenous infusion. Do not freeze the reconstituted solution. 2.4 Preparation and Administration Instructions for Pathological Hypersecretion Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome 15-Minute Intravenous Infusion Reconstitute each vial of pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. Combine the contents of the two vials and dilute with 80 mL of 5% Dextrose Injection or Sodium Chloride Injection to a total volume of 100 mL with a final concentration of approximately 0.8 mg per mL. Administer intravenously over a period of approximately 15 minutes at a rate of approximately 7 mL/min. Storage The reconstituted solution can be stored at room temperature up to 30°C (86°F) for up to 6 hours prior to further dilution. Once further diluted, the diluted solution can be stored at room temperature up to 30°C (86°F) for up to 24 hours from the time of initial reconstitution. 2-Minute Intravenous Injection Reconstitute each vial of pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, per vial to a final concentration of approximately 4 mg per mL. Administer the total volume from both vials intravenously over a period of at least 2 minutes. Storage The reconstituted solution may be stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature. 2.5 Compatibility Information Administer pantoprazole sodium for injection intravenously through a dedicated line or through a Y-site. When administering through a Y-site, pantoprazole sodium for injection is compatible with the following solutions: o 5% Dextrose Injection o 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection Midazolam hydrochloride is incompatible with Y-site administration of pantoprazole sodium for injection. Pantoprazole sodium for injection may not be compatible with products containing zinc [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Stop administering pantoprazole sodium for injection immediately through a Y-site if precipitation or discoloration occurs. Switch to an appropriate oral medication within 10 days of startingpantoprazole sodium for injection. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Pathological Hypersecretion Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome The recommended adult dosage of pantoprazole sodium for injection is 80 mg every 12 hours by intravenous injection (over at least 2 minutes) or intravenous infusion (for 15 minutes). Dilute the resulting solution to a final concentration as described below: Adult patients : Further dilute with 100 mL 5% Dextrose Injection or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection to a final concentration of approximately 0.4 mg/mL. Withdraw the dose of the diluted pantoprazole sodium for injection solution for a adult dose. Infuse intravenously over a period of approximately 15 minutes through a dedicated line or through a Y-site [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )]. Storage Store the reconstituted solution may be up to 6 hours at room temperature up to 30°C (86°F) prior to further dilution. 2-Minute Intravenous Injection for Adult Patients Reconstitute each vial of pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, to a final concentration of approximately 4 mg/mL. Storage Store the reconstituted solution may be stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature up to 30°C (86°F) prior to intravenous infusion. Combine the contents of the two vials and dilute with 80 mL of 5% Dextrose Injection or Sodium Chloride Injection to a total volume of 100 mL with a final concentration of approximately 0.8 mg/mL. 2-Minute Intravenous Injection Reconstitute each vial of pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, per vial to a final concentration of approximately 4 mg/mL. When administering through a Y-site, pantoprazole sodium for injection is compatible with the following solutions: 5% Dextrose Injection 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection Midazolam hydrochloride is incompatible with Y-site administration of pantoprazole sodium for injection. Pantoprazole sodium for injection may not be compatible with products containing zinc [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION * Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 months See full prescribing information for administration instructions Indication Dose Frequency Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With GERD ( 2.1 ) Adults 40 mg Once Daily for up to 8 wks Children (5 years and older) ≥ 15 kg to < 40 kg 20 mg Once Daily for up to 8 wks ≥ 40 kg 40 mg Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis ( 2.1 ) Adults 40 mg Once Daily* Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome ( 2.1 ) Adults 40 mg Twice Daily 2.1 Recommended Dosing Schedule Pantoprazole sodium is supplied as delayed-release tablets. The recommended dosages are outlined in Table 1. Table 1: Recommended Dosing Schedule for Pantoprazole Sodium * For adult patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of pantoprazole sodium may be considered. ** Dosage regimens should be adjusted to individual patient needs and should continue for as long as clinically indicated. Doses up to 240 mg daily have been administered. *** Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 months Indication Dose Frequency Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With GERD Adults 40 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks* Children (5 years and older) ≥ 15 kg to < 40 kg 20 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks ≥ 40 kg 40 mg Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis Adults 40 mg Once daily*** Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Adults 40 mg Twice daily** 2.2 Administration Instructions Directions for method of administration of pantoprazole sodium is presented in Table 2. Table 2: Administration Instructions * Do not split, chew, or crush pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets. Formulation Route Instructions* Delayed-Release Tablets Oral Swallowed whole, with or without food Take a missed dose as soon as possible. If it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and take the next dose at the regular scheduled time. Do not take 2 doses at the same time. Swallow pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets whole, with or without food in the stomach. For patients unable to swallow a 40 mg tablet, two 20 mg tablets may be taken. Concomitant administration of antacids does not affect the absorption of pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Dose Frequency Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With GERD (2.1) Adults 40 mg Once Daily for up to 8 weeks Children (5 years and older) ≥15 kg to < 40 kg 20 mg Once Daily for up to 8 weeks ≥ 40 kg 40 mg Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis (2.1) Adults 40 mg Once Daily* Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome (2.1) Adults 40 mg Twice Daily * Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 months See full prescribing information for administration instructions 2.1 Recommended Dosing Schedule Pantoprazole sodium is supplied as delayed-release tablets. Table 1: Recommended Dosing Schedule for Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets Indication Dose Frequency Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With GERD Adults 40 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks* Children (5 years and older) ≥15 kg to < 40 kg 20 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks ≥ 40 kg 40 mg Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis Adults 40 mg Once daily*** Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Adults 40 mg Twice daily** *For adult patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of pantoprazole sodium may be considered. *** Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 months. 2.2 Administration Instructions Directions for method of administration of pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are presented in Table 2. Table 2: Administration Instructions Formulation Route Instructions * Delayed-Release Tablets Oral Swallowed whole, with or without food * Do not split, chew, or crush pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets. Take a missed dose as soon as possible. Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets Swallow pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets whole, with or without food in the stomach. 2.1 Recommended Dosing Schedule Pantoprazole sodium is supplied as delayed-release tablets. Table 1: Recommended Dosing Schedule for Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets Indication Dose Frequency Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With GERD Adults 40 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks* Children (5 years and older) ≥ 15 kg to < 40 kg ≥ 40 kg 20 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks 40 mg Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis Adults 40 mg Once daily*** Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Adults 40 mg Twice daily ** * For adult patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets may be considered. 2.2 Administration Instructions Directions for method of administration for each dosage form are presented in Table 2. Table 2: Administration Instructions Formulation Route Instructions* Delayed-Release Tablets Oral Swallowed whole, with or without food * Do not split, chew, or crush Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . GERD and a History of EE Adults: • The recommended dosage is 40 mg once daily by intravenous injection (over at least 2 minutes) or intravenous infusion (for 15 minutes) for up to 10 days. ( 2.1 ) • Discontinue as soon as the patient is able to receive oral treatment. ( 2.1 ) Pathological Hypersecretion Conditions, Including ZE Syndrome • The recommended adult dosage is 80 mg every 12 hours by intravenous injection (over at least 2 minutes) or intravenous infusion (for 15 minutes). ( 2.2 ) • For information on how to adjust dosing for individual patient needs, see the full prescribing information. ( 2.2 ) • When switching between intravenous to oral formulations of gastric acid inhibitors, consider the pharmacodynamic action of the drugs to ensure continuity of acid suppression. ( 2.2 ) Preparation and Administration Instructions • See full prescribing information for preparation and administration instructions by indication. Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc.’s PROTONIX ® I.V. However, due to Pfizer Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Pathological Hypersecretion Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome • The recommended adult dosage of pantoprazole sodium for injection is 80 mg every 12 hours by intravenous injection (over at least 2 minutes) or intravenous infusion (for 15 minutes). • Adjust the frequency of dosing to individual patient needs based on acid output measurements. • When switching between intravenous to oral formulations of gastric acid inhibitors, consider the pharmacodynamic action of the drugs to ensure continuity of acid suppression. Dilute the resulting solution to a final concentration as described below: • Adult patients: Further dilute with 100 mL 5% Dextrose Injection or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection to a final concentration of approximately 0.4 mg/mL. Infuse intravenously over a period of approximately 15 minutes through a dedicated line or through a Y-site [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] . The reconstituted solution may be stored for up to 6 hours at room temperature up to 30°C (86ºF) prior to further dilution. Discard unused portion. Reconstitute each vial of pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, to a final concentration of approximately 4 mg/mL. Storage • The reconstituted solution may be stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature up to 30ºC (86ºF) prior to intravenous infusion. • Do not freeze the reconstituted solution. 2.4 Preparation and Administration Instructions for Pathological Hypersecretion Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome 15-Minute Intravenous Infusion 1. Storage • The reconstituted solution can be stored at room temperature up to 30°C (86ºF) for up to 6 hours prior to further dilution. • Once further diluted, the diluted solution can be stored at room temperature up to 30°C (86°F) for up to 24 hours from the time of initial reconstitution. • Do not freeze the reconstituted or diluted solution. 2-Minute Intravenous Injection 1. Reconstitute each vial of pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, per vial to a final concentration of approximately 4 mg/mL. Storage • The reconstituted solution may be stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature. When administered through a Y-site, pantoprazole sodium for injection is compatible with the following solutions: ◦ 5% Dextrose Injection ◦ 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection Midazolam hydrochloride is incompatible with Y-site administration of Pantoprazole sodium for injection Pantoprazole sodium for injection may not be compatible with products containing zinc [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Stop administering pantoprazole sodium for injection immediately through a Y-site if precipitation or discoloration occurs 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Dose Frequency Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With GERD ( 2.1 ) Adults 40 mg Once Daily for up to 8 wks Children (5 years and older) ≥ 15 kg to < 40 kg 20 mg Once Daily for up to 8 wks ≥ 40 kg 40 mg Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis ( 2.1 ) Adults 40 mg Once Daily* Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome ( 2.1 ) Adults 40 mg Twice Daily * Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 months See full prescribing information for administration instructions 2.1 Recommended Dosing Schedule Pantoprazole sodium is supplied as delayed-release tablets. Table 1: Recommended Dosing Schedule for Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets Indication Dose Frequency Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With GERD Adults 40 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks* Children (5 years and older) ≥ 15 kg to < 40 kg 20 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks ≥ 40 kg 40 mg Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis Adults 40 mg Once daily*** Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Adults 40 mg Twice daily ** * For adult patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets may be considered. *** Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 months 2.2 Administration Instructions Directions for method of administration for each dosage form are presented in Table 2. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Dose Frequency Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With GERD ( 2.1 ) Adults 40 mg Once Daily for up to 8 wks Children (5 years and older) ≥ 15 kg to < 40 kg 20 mg Once Daily for up to 8 wks ≥ 40 kg 40 mg Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis ( 2.1 ) Adults 40 mg Once Daily Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 months Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome ( 2.1 ) Adults 40 mg Twice Daily See full prescribing information for administration instructions 2.1 Recommended Dosing Schedule PROTONIX is supplied as delayed-release granules in packets for preparation of oral suspensions or as delayed-release tablets. Table 1: Recommended Dosing Schedule for PROTONIX Indication Dose Frequency Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With GERD Adults 40 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks For adult patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of PROTONIX may be considered. Children (5 years and older) ≥ 15 kg to < 40 kg 20 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks ≥ 40 kg 40 mg Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis Adults 40 mg Once daily Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 months Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Adults 40 mg Twice daily Dosage regimens should be adjusted to individual patient needs and should continue for as long as clinically indicated. Table 2: Administration Instructions Formulation Route Instructions Do not split, chew, or crush PROTONIX Delayed-Release Tablets and PROTONIX For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension. Delayed-Release Tablets Oral Swallowed whole, with or without food For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension Oral Administered in 1 teaspoonful of applesauce or apple juice approximately 30 minutes prior to a meal For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension Nasogastric tube See instructions below Take a missed dose as soon as possible. PROTONIX Delayed-Release Tablets Swallow PROTONIX Delayed-Release Tablets whole, with or without food in the stomach. Concomitant administration of antacids does not affect the absorption of PROTONIX Delayed-Release Tablets. PROTONIX For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension Administer PROTONIX For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension approximately 30 minutes prior to a meal via oral administration in apple juice or applesauce or nasogastric tube in apple juice only. Because proper pH is necessary for stability, do not administer PROTONIX For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension in liquids other than apple juice, or foods other than applesauce. Do not divide the 40 mg PROTONIX For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension packet to create a 20 mg dosage for pediatric patients who are unable to take the tablet formulation. PROTONIX For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension - Oral Administration in Applesauce • Open packet. • Sprinkle granules on one teaspoonful of applesauce. DO NOT USE OTHER FOODS OR CRUSH OR CHEW THE GRANULES. • Take within 10 minutes of preparation. • Take sips of water to make sure granules are washed down into the stomach. Repeat water sips as necessary. PROTONIX For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension - Oral Administration in Apple Juice • Open packet. • Empty granules into a small cup or teaspoon containing one teaspoon of apple juice. • Stir for 5 seconds (granules will not dissolve) and swallow immediately. • To make sure that the entire dose is taken, rinse the container once or twice with apple juice to remove any remaining granules. Swallow immediately. PROTONIX For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension - Nasogastric (NG) Tube or Gastrostomy Tube Administration For patients who have a nasogastric tube or gastrostomy tube in place, PROTONIX For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension can be given as follows: • Remove the plunger from the barrel of a 2 ounce (60 mL) catheter-tip syringe. Discard the plunger. • Connect the catheter tip of the syringe to a 16 French (or larger) tube. • Hold the syringe attached to the tubing as high as possible while giving PROTONIX For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension to prevent any bending of the tubing. • Empty the contents of the packet into the barrel of the syringe. • Add 10 mL (2 teaspoonfuls) of apple juice and gently tap and/or shake the barrel of the syringe to help rinse the syringe and tube. Repeat at least twice more using the same amount of apple juice (10 mL or 2 teaspoonfuls) each time. No granules should remain in the syringe. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION GERD Associated with EE (2.1) • The recommended adult dosage is 40 mg given once daily by intravenous infusion for 7 to 10 days. (2.1) Pathological Hypersecretion Conditions, Including ZE Syndrome (2.3) : • The recommended adult dosage is 80 mg administered every 12 hours by intravenous infusion. For information on how to adjust dosing for individual patient needs, see the full prescribing information. Administration (2.2 , 2.4 ): • Only for intravenous infusion. • The intravenous infusion can be administered over 2 minutes or 15 minutes. • For information on how to prepare and administer for each indication, see the full prescribing information. 2.1 Dosage for Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease Associated With a History of Erosive Esophagitis The recommended adult dosage of pantoprazole sodium for injection is 40 mg given once daily by intravenous infusion for 7 to 10 days. Discontinue treatment with pantoprazole sodium for injection as soon as the patient is able to receive treatment with pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets or oral suspension. Data on the safe and effective dosing for conditions other than those described [see Indications and Usage (1)] such as life-threatening upper gastrointestinal bleeds, are not available. Pantoprazole sodium for injection 40 mg once daily does not raise gastric pH to levels sufficient to contribute to the treatment of such life-threatening conditions. 2.2 Preparation and Administration Instructions for Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease Associated with a History of Erosive Esophagitis Only for intravenous infusion; other parenteral routes of administration are not recommended. Fifteen Minute Infusion 1. Reconstitute pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP. Further dilute with 100 mL of 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, or Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP, to a final concentration of approximately 0.4 mg/mL. Inspect the diluted pantoprazole sodium for injection solution visually for particular matter and discoloration prior to and during administration. Storage The reconstituted solution may be stored for up to 6 hours at room temperature prior to further dilution. The admixed solution may be stored at room temperature and must be used within 24 hours from the time of initial reconstitution. Both the reconstituted solution and the admixed solution do not need to be protected from light. Two Minute Infusion 1. Reconstitute pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, to a final concentration of approximately 4 mg/mL. Storage The reconstituted solution may be stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature prior to intravenous infusion and does not need to be protected from light. 2.3 Dosage for Pathological Hypersecretion Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome The recommended adult dosage of pantoprazole sodium for injection is 80 mg intravenously every 12 hours. The frequency of dosing can be adjusted to individual patient needs based on acid output measurements. Daily doses higher than 240 mg or administered for more than 6 days have not been studied [see Clinical Studies (14)] . Transition from oral to intravenous and from intravenous to oral formulations of gastric acid inhibitors should be performed in such a manner to ensure continuity of effect of suppression of acid secretion. Patients with ZE Syndrome may be vulnerable to serious clinical complications of increased acid production even after a short period of loss of effective inhibition. 2.4 Preparation and Administration Instructions for Pathological Hypersecretion Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Only for intravenous infusion; other parenteral routes of administration are not recommended. Reconstitute each vial of pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP. Combine the contents of the two vials and further dilute with 80 mL of 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, or Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP, to a total volume of 100 mL with a final concentration of approximately 0.8 mg/mL. Reconstitute pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, per vial to a final concentration of approximately 4 mg/mL. 2.5 Compatibility Information • Administer pantoprazole sodium for injection intravenously through a dedicated line or through a Y-site. • Flush the intravenous line before and after administration of pantoprazole sodium for injection with either 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, or Lactated Ringer’s Injection, USP. • When administered through a Y-site, pantoprazole sodium for injection is compatible with the following solutions: 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, or Lactated Ringer’s Injection, USP. • Midazolam HCl has been shown to be incompatible with Y-site administration of pantoprazole sodium for injection. • Pantoprazole sodium for injection may not be compatible with products containing zinc [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3 )]. • When pantoprazole sodium for injection is administered through a Y-site, immediately stop use if precipitation or discoloration occurs.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Pantoprazole sodium is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis to the formulation or any substituted benzimidazole. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.4 ) and Adverse Reactions (6) ] . Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including pantoprazole sodium, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Known hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation or to substituted benzimidazoles. ( 4 ) Patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products. ( 4 , 7 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Pantoprazole sodium for injection is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis to the formulation or any substituted benzimidazole. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.4 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 )]. Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including pantoprazole sodium for injection, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Pantoprazole sodium is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation or any substituted benzimidazole. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6) ]. Patients with known hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation or to substituted benzimidazoles ( 4 ) Patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products ( 4 , 7 ) Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6) ] . Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including pantoprazole sodium is contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . • Pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation or any substituted benzimidazole. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2), Adverse Reactions ( 6)]. • Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions ( 7)]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis to the formulation or any substituted benzimidazole. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.4) , Adverse Reactions (6) ] . • Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including pantoprazole sodium for injection, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . • known hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation or to substituted benzimidazoles. ( 4 ) • Patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation or any substituted benzimidazole. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6 ) ]. • Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ]. Patients with known hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation or to substituted benzimidazoles ( 4) Patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products ( 4 , 7 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • PROTONIX is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation or any substituted benzimidazole. • Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including PROTONIX, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . • Patients with known hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation or to substituted benzimidazoles ( 4 ) • Patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products ( 4 , 7 ) Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.4 ), Adverse Reactions (6)] . • Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including pantoprazole sodium for injection, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions (7)] . • Patients with a known hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation or to substituted benzimidazoles. (4) • Patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products. (4 , 7)
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See the full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions. ( 7 ) Table 3 includes drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with pantoprazole sodium and instructions for preventing or managing them. Consult the labeling of concomitantly used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with PPIs. Table 3: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Co-Administered with Pantoprazole Sodium and Interaction with Diagnostics Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact: The effect of PPIs on antiretroviral drugs is variable. The clinical importance and the mechanisms behind these interactions are not always known. Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine atazanavir, and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with pantoprazole sodium may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance. Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with pantoprazole sodium may increase toxicity of the antiretroviral drugs. There are other antiretroviral drugs which do not result in clinically relevant interactions with pantoprazole sodium. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with pantoprazole sodium is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . See prescribing information. Atazanavir: See prescribing information for atazanavir for dosing information. Nelfinavir: Avoid concomitant use with pantoprazole sodium. See prescribing information for nelfinavir. Saquinavir: See the prescribing information for saquinavir and monitor for potential saquinavir toxicities. Other antiretrovirals: See prescribing information. Warfarin Clinical Impact: Increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving PPIs, including pantoprazole sodium, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Intervention: Monitor INR and prothrombin time. Dose adjustment of warfarin may be needed to maintain target INR range. See prescribing information for warfarin. Clopidogrel Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of pantoprazole sodium and clopidogrel in healthy subjects had no clinically important effect on exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel or clopidogrel-induced platelet inhibition [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: No dose adjustment of clopidogrel is necessary when administered with an approved dose of pantoprazole sodium. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate (primarily at high dose) may elevate and prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) ] . Intervention: A temporary withdrawal of pantoprazole sodium may be considered in some patients receiving high-dose methotrexate. Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption (e.g., iron salts, erlotinib, dasatinib, nilotinib, mycophenolate mofetil, ketoconazole/itraconazole) Clinical Impact: Pantoprazole can reduce the absorption of other drugs due to its effect on reducing intragastric acidity. Intervention: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Co-administration of pantoprazole sodium in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving pantoprazole sodium and MMF. Use pantoprazole sodium with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF. See the prescribing information for other drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption. Interactions with Investigations of Neuroendocrine Tumors Clinical Impact: CgA levels increase secondary to PPI-induced decreases in gastric acidity. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Intervention: Temporarily stop pantoprazole sodium treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. If serial tests are performed (e.g., for monitoring), the same commercial laboratory should be used for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary. False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact: There have been reports of false positive urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving PPIs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] . Intervention: An alternative confirmatory method should be considered to verify positive results. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 3 includes drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with pantoprazole sodium for injection and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 3: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Co-Administered with Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection and Interaction with Diagnostics Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact: The effect of PPIs on antiretroviral drugs is variable. Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine atazanavir, and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with pantoprazole may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance. Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with pantoprazole may increase toxicity of the antiretroviral drugs . There are other antiretroviral drugs which do not result in clinically relevant interactions with pantoprazole. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with pantoprazole sodium for injection is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Nelfinavir: Avoid concomitant use with pantoprazole sodium for injection. Warfarin Clinical Impact: Increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving PPIs, including pantoprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Clopidogrel Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of pantoprazole and clopidogrel in healthy subjects had no clinically important effect on exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel or clopidogrel-induced platelet inhibition [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: No dose adjustment of clopidogrel is necessary when administered with an approved dose of pantoprazole sodium for injection. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 )] . Intervention: A temporary withdrawal of pantoprazole sodium for injection may be considered in some patients receiving high-dose methotrexate. Intervention: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Co-administration of pantoprazole sodium in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving pantoprazole sodium for injection and MMF. Use pantoprazole sodium for injection with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . Intervention: Temporarily stop pantoprazole sodium for injection treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact: There have been reports of false positive urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving PPIs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 )] . See the full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions. (7) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 4 includes drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with pantoprazole sodium and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 4: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Co-Administered with Pantoprazole Sodium and Interactions with Diagnostics Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact: The effect of PPIs on antiretroviral drugs is variable. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with pantoprazole sodium are contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . Clopidogrel Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of pantoprazole and clopidogrel in healthy subjects had no clinically important effect on exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel or clopidogrel-induced platelet inhibition [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] . The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact: There have been reports of false positive urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving PPIs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . See full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions ( 7 ) Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with pantoprazole may increase toxicity of the antiretroviral drugs. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 )]. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )]. If serial tests are performed (e.g. for monitoring), the same commercial laboratory should be used for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary. False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact: There have been reports of false positive urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving PPIs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )]. See full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions. ( 7 ) Table 4 includes drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with pantoprazole sodium and instructions for preventing or managing them. • Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine atazanavir, and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with pantoprazole may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance. • Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with pantoprazole may increase toxicity of the antiretroviral drugs. • There are other antiretroviral drugs which do not result in clinically relevant interactions with pantoprazole. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with pantoprazole sodium is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4)] . Clopidogrel Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of pantoprazole and clopidogrel in healthy subjects had no clinically important effect on exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel or clopidogrel-induced platelet inhibition [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)]. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13)] . Intervention: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Co-administration of pantoprazole sodium in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)] . The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2)] . False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact: There have been reports of false positive urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving PPIs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12)] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 2 includes drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with pantoprazole sodium for injection and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 2: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Co-Administered with Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection and Interaction with Diagnostics Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact: The effect of PPIs on antiretroviral drugs is variable. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with pantoprazole sodium for injection is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . Nelfinavir: Avoid concomitant use with pantoprazole sodium for injection See prescribing information for nelfinavir. Intervention: No dose adjustment of clopidogrel is necessary when administered with an approved dose of pantoprazole sodium for injection.. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12 and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . See the full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions ( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS . Pregnancy : Based on animal data, may cause fetal harm. ( 8.1 ) See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION. Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc.’s PROTONIX ® I.V. (pantoprazole sodium) for Injection. However, due to Pfizer Inc.›s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. Revised: 05/2025 8.1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from published observational studies did not demonstrate an association of major malformations or other adverse pregnancy outcomes with pantoprazole. In animal reproduction studies, no evidence of adverse development outcomes was observed with pantoprazole sodium. Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at intravenous doses up to 20 mg/kg/day (4 times the recommended human dose) and rabbits at intravenous doses up to 15 mg/kg/day (6 times the recommended human dose) with administration of pantoprazole during organogenesis in pregnant animals and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to pantoprazole in this study (see Data ). A pre- and post-natal development toxicity study in rats with additional endpoints to evaluate the effect on bone development was performed with pantoprazole sodium. Oral pantoprazole doses of 5, 15, and 30 mg/kg/day (approximately 1, 3, and 6 times the human dose of 40 mg/day) were administered to pregnant females from gestation day (GD) 6 through lactation day (LD) 21. Changes in bone morphology were observed in pups exposed to pantoprazole in utero and through milk during the period of lactation as well as by oral dosing from postnatal day (PND) 4 through PND 21 [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. There were no drug-related findings in maternal animals. Advise pregnant women of the potential risk of fetal harm. The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown. All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect, loss or other adverse outcomes. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in the clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4% and 15 to 20%, respectively. Data Human Data Available data from published observational studies failed to demonstrate an association of adverse pregnancy-related outcomes and pantoprazole use. Methodological limitations of these observational studies cannot definitely establish or exclude any drug associated risk during pregnancy. In a prospective study by the European Network of Teratology Information Services, outcomes from a group of 53 pregnant women administered median daily doses of 40 mg pantoprazole were compared to a control group of 868 pregnant women who did not take any proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). There was no difference in the rate of major malformations between women exposed to PPIs and the control group, corresponding to a Relative Risk (RR)=0.55, [95% Confidence Interval (CI) 0.08-3.95]. In a population-based retrospective cohort study covering all live births in Denmark from 1996 to 2008, there was no significant increase in major birth defects during analysis of first trimester exposure to pantoprazole in 549 live births. A meta-analysis that compared 1,530 pregnant women exposed to PPIs in at least the first trimester with 133,410 unexposed pregnant women showed no significant increases in risk for congenital malformations or spontaneous abortion with exposure to PPIs (for major malformations OR=1.12 ([95% CI 0.86-1.45] and for spontaneous abortions OR=1.29 [95% CI 0.84-1.97]). Animal Data Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at intravenous pantoprazole doses up to 20 mg/kg/day (4 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area) and rabbits at intravenous doses up to 15 mg/kg/day (6 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area) with administration of pantoprazole sodium during organogenesis in pregnant animals and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to pantoprazole. Oral pantoprazole doses of 5, 15, and 30 mg/kg/day (approximately 1, 3, and 6 times the human dose of 40 mg/day on a body surface area basis) were administered to pregnant females from gestation day (GD) 6 through lactation day (LD) 21. On postnatal day (PND 4) through PND 21, the pups were administered oral doses at 5, 15, and 30 mg/kg/day (approximately 1, 2.3, and 3.2 times the exposure (AUC) in humans at a dose of 40 mg). During the preweaning dosing phase (PND 4 to 21) of the pups, there were increased mortality and/or moribundity and decreased body weight and body weight gain at 5 mg/kg/day (approximately equal exposures (AUC) in humans receiving the 40 mg dose) and higher doses. On PND 21, decreased mean femur length and weight and changes in femur bone mass and geometry were observed in the offspring at 5 mg/kg/day (approximately equal exposures (AUC) in humans at the 40 mg dose) and higher doses. The femur findings included lower total area, bone mineral content and density, periosteal and endosteal circumference, and cross-sectional moment of inertia. There were no microscopic changes in the distal femur, proximal tibia, or stifle joints. Changes in bone parameters were partially reversible following a recovery period, with findings on PND 70 limited to lower femur metaphysis cortical/subcortical bone mineral density in female pups at 5 mg/kg/day (approximately equal exposures (AUC) in humans at the 40 mg dose) and higher doses. 8.2 Lactation . Risk Summary The limited data from a single case report the presence of pantoprazole in human breast milk. There were no effects on the breastfed infant (see Data ) . There are no data on pantoprazole effects on milk production. The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother's clinical need for pantoprazole sodium for injection and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from pantoprazole or from the underlying maternal condition. Data The breast milk of a 42-year-old woman receiving 40 mg of oral pantoprazole, at 10 months postpartum, was studied for 24 hours, to demonstrate low levels of pantoprazole present in the breast milk. Pantoprazole was detectable in milk only 2 and 4 hours after the dose with milk levels of approximately 36 mcg/L and 24 mcg/L, respectively. A milk-to-plasma ratio of 0.022 was observed at 2 hours after drug administration. Pantoprazole was not detectable (<10 mcg/L) in milk at 6, 8 and 24 hours after the dose. The relative dose to the infant was estimated to be 7.3 mcg of pantoprazole, which is equivalent to 0.14% of the weight-adjusted maternal dose. No adverse events in the infant were reported by the mother. 8.4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of pantoprazole sodium for injection have not been established in patients less than 3 months of age for the treatment of GERD and a history of EE. The safety and effectiveness of pantoprazole sodium for injection have not been established in pediatric patients for the treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions including ZE syndrome. Animal Toxicity Data In neonatal/juvenile animals (rats and dogs) toxicities were similar to those observed in adult animals, including gastric alterations, decreases in red cell mass, increases in lipids, enzyme induction and hepatocellular hypertrophy. An increased incidence of eosinophilic chief cells in adult and neonatal/juvenile rats, and atrophy of chief cells in adult rats and in neonatal/juvenile dogs, was observed in the fundic mucosa of stomachs in repeated-dose studies. Full to partial recovery of these effects were noted in animals of both age groups following a recovery period. However, due to Pfizer Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 8.5 Geriatric Use Of 286 patients in clinical studies of intravenous pantoprazole sodium in patients with GERD and a history of EE, 86 (43%) were 65 years of age and over. No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these geriatric and younger adult patients, and other reported clinical experience with oral pantoprazole sodium has not identified differences in responses between geriatric and younger adult patients, but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out. No clinically meaningful differences in the pharmacokinetics of pantoprazole were observed in geriatric subjects compared to younger adult subjects [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with pantoprazole sodium is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 ) ]. Clopidogrel Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of pantoprazole and clopidogrel in healthy subjects had no clinically important effect on exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel or clopidogrel-induced platelet inhibition [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 ) ]. Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption (e.g., iron salts, erlotinib, dasatinib, nilotinib, mycophenolate mofetil, ketoconazole / itraconazole ) Clinical Impact: Pantoprazole can reduce the absorption of other drugs due to its effect on reducing intragastric acidity. Intervention: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Co-administration of pantoprazole sodium in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) ]. False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact: There have been reports of false positive urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving PPIs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 4 includes drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with PROTONIX and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 4: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Co-Administered with PROTONIX and Interactions with Diagnostics Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact: The effect of PPIs on antiretroviral drugs is variable. • Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with pantoprazole may increase toxicity of the antiretroviral drugs . Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with PROTONIX is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . Nelfinavir: Avoid concomitant use with PROTONIX. Intervention: No dose adjustment of clopidogrel is necessary when administered with an approved dose of PROTONIX. Intervention: A temporary withdrawal of PROTONIX may be considered in some patients receiving high-dose methotrexate. The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving PROTONIX and MMF. Use PROTONIX with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF. Intervention: Temporarily stop PROTONIX treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with pantoprazole sodium for injection is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)] . Atazanavir : See prescribing information for atazanavir for dosing information. Clopidogrel Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of pantoprazole and clopidogrel in healthy subjects had no clinically important effect on exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel or clopidogrel-induced platelet inhibition [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)]. Intervention: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Co-administration of pantoprazole sodium in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12), Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)] . False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact: There have been reports of false positive urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving PPIs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] . See the full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions (7)

=== SULFAMETHOXAZOLE AND TRIMETHOPRIM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets, USP and other antibacterial drugs, sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets, USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to empiric selection of therapy. Urinary Tract Infections For the treatment of urinary tract infections due to susceptible strains of the following organisms: Escherichia coli, Klebsiella species, Enterobacter species, Morganella morganii, Proteus mirabilis and Proteus vulgaris. It is recommended that initial episodes of uncomplicated urinary tract infections be treated with a single effective antibacterial agent rather than the combination. Acute Otitis Media For the treatment of acute otitis media in pediatric patients due to susceptible strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae or Haemophilus influenzae when in the judgment of the physician sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets offer some advantage over the use of other antimicrobial agents. To date, there are limited data on the safety of repeated use of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets, USP in pediatric patients under two years of age. Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets, USP are not indicated for prophylactic or prolonged administration in otitis media at any age. Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Bronchitis in Adults For the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis due to susceptible strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae or Haemophilus influenzae when a physician deems that sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets, USP could offer some advantage over the use of a single antimicrobial agent. Shigellosis For the treatment of enteritis caused by susceptible strains of Shigella flexneri and Shigella sonnei when antibacterial therapy is indicated. Pneumocystis jiroveci Pneumonia For the treatment of documented Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia and for prophylaxis against P. jiroveci pneumonia in individuals who are immunosuppressed and considered to be at an increased risk of developing P. jiroveci pneumonia. Traveler's Diarrhea in Adults For the treatment of traveler's diarrhea due to susceptible strains of enterotoxigenic E. coli. INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets and other antibacterial drugs, sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Urinary Tract Infections For the treatment of urinary tract infections due to susceptible strains of the following organisms: Escherichia coli , Klebsiella species, Enterobacter species, Morganella morganii , Proteus mirabilis and Proteus vulgaris . Acute Otitis Media For the treatment of acute otitis media in pediatric patients due to susceptible strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae or Haemophilus influenzae when in the judgment of the physician sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim offers some advantage over the use of other antimicrobial agents. To date, there are limited data on the safety of repeated use of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets in pediatric patients under two years of age. Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets are not indicated for prophylactic or prolonged administration in otitis media at any age. Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Bronchitis in Adults For the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis due to susceptible strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae or Haemophilus influenzae when a physician deems that sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim could offer some advantage over the use of a single antimicrobial agent. Pneumocystis jirovecii Pneumonia For the treatment of documented Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia and for prophylaxis against P. jirovecii pneumonia in individuals who are immunosuppressed and considered to be at an increased risk of developing P. jirovecii pneumonia. Traveler’s Diarrhea in Adults For the treatment of traveler’s diarrhea due to susceptible strains of enterotoxigenic E. coli . Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Bronchitis in Adults For the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis due to susceptible strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae or Haemophilus influenzae when a physician deems that sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets could offer some advantage over the use of a single antimicrobial agent. Traveler's Diarrhea in Adults For the treatment of traveler's diarrhea due to susceptible strains of enterotoxigenic E.coli. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. Urinary Tract Infections: For the treatment of urinary tract infections due to susceptible strains of the following organisms: Escherichia coli , Klebsiella species, Enterobacter species, Morganella morganii , Proteus mirabilis and Proteus vulgaris . Acute Otitis Media: For the treatment of acute otitis media in pediatric patients due to susceptible strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae or Haemophilus influenzae when in the judgment of the physician sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim offers some advantage over the use of other antimicrobial agents. To date, there are limited data on the safety of repeated use of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim in pediatric patients under two years of age. Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim is not indicated for prophylactic or prolonged administration in otitis media at any age. Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Bronchitis in Adults: For the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis due to susceptible strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae or Haemophilus influenzae when a physician deems that sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim could offer some advantage over the use of a single antimicrobial agent. Shigellosis: For the treatment of enteritis caused by susceptible strains of Shigella flexneri and Shigella sonnei when antibacterial therapy is indicated. Pneumocystis jiroveci Pneumonia: For the treatment of documented Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia and for prophylaxis against P. jiroveci pneumonia in individuals who are immunosuppressed and considered to be at an increased risk of developing P.jiroveci pneumonia. Traveler’s Diarrhea in Adults: For the treatment of traveler’s diarrhea due to susceptible strains of enterotoxigenic E. Acute Otitis Media For the treatment of acute otitis media in pediatric patients due to susceptible strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae or Haemophilus influenzae when in the judgment of the physician sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets offers some advantage over the use of other antimicrobial agents. Traveler's Diarrhea in Adults For the treatment of traveler’s diarrhea due to susceptible strains of enterotoxigenic E.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets are contraindicated in pediatric patients less than 2 months of age. Urinary Tract Infections and Shigellosis in Adults and Pediatric Patients, and Acute Otitis Media in Children Adults The usual adult dosage in the treatment of urinary tract infections is 1 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim DS (double strength) tablet or 2 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets every 12 hours for 10 to 14 days. An identical daily dosage is used for 5 days in the treatment of shigellosis. Children The recommended dose for children with urinary tract infections or acute otitis media is 40 mg/kg sulfamethoxazole and 8 mg/kg trimethoprim per 24 hours, given in two divided doses every 12 hours for 10 days. The following table is a guideline for the attainment of this dosage: Children 2 months of age or older: Weight Dose–every 12 hours lb kg Tablets 22 44 66 88 10 20 30 40 – 1 1½ 2 or 1 DS tablet For Patients with Impaired Renal Function When renal function is impaired, a reduced dosage should be employed using the following table: Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Recommended Dosage Regimen Above 30 15–30 Below 15 Usual standard regimen ½ the usual regimen Use not recommended Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Bronchitis in Adults The usual adult dosage in the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis is 1 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim DS (double strength) tablet or 2 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets every 12 hours for 14 days. Pneumocystis Jiroveci Pneumonia Treatment Adults and Children The recommended dosage for treatment of patients with documented Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia is 75 to 100 mg/kg sulfamethoxazole and 15 to 20 mg/kg trimethoprim per 24 hours given in equally divided doses every 6 hours for 14 to 21 days. 11 The following table is a guideline for the upper limit of this dosage: Weight Dose–every 6 hours lb kg Tablets 18 35 53 70 88 106 141 176 8 16 24 32 40 48 64 80 – 1 1½ 2 or 1 DS tablet 2½ 3 or 1½ DS tablets 4 or 2 DS tablets 5 or 2½ DS tablets For the lower limit dose (75 mg/kg sulfamethoxazole and 15 mg/kg trimethoprim per 24 hours) administer 75% of the dose in the above table. Prophylaxis Adults The recommended dosage for prophylaxis in adults is 1 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim DS (double strength) tablet daily. 12 Children For children, the recommended dose is 750 mg/m 2 /day sulfamethoxazole with 150 mg/m 2 /day trimethoprim given orally in equally divided doses twice a day, on 3 consecutive days per week. The total daily dose should not exceed 1600 mg sulfamethoxazole and 320 mg trimethoprim. 13 The following table is a guideline for the attainment of this dosage in children: Body Surface Area Dose–every 12 hours (m 2 ) Tablets 0.26 0.53 1.06 – ½ 1 Traveler's Diarrhea in Adults For the treatment of traveler’s diarrhea, the usual adult dosage is 1 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim DS (double strength) tablet or 2 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets every 12 hours for 5 days. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim is contraindicated in pediatric patients less than 2 months of age. Urinary Tract Infections and Shigellosis in Adults and Pediatric Patients, and Acute Otitis Media in Children Adults: The usual adult dosage in the treatment of urinary tract infections is 1 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim double strength tablet or 2 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets every 12 hours for 10 to 14 days. Children: The recommended dose for children with urinary tract infections or acute otitis media is 40 mg/kg sulfamethoxazole and 8 mg/kg trimethoprim per 24 hours, given in two divided doses every 12 hours for 10 days. The following table is a guideline for the attainment of this dosage: Children 2 months of age or older: Weight Dose – every 12 hours lb kg Tablets 22 10 - 44 20 1 66 30 1½ 88 40 2 or 1 DS tablet For Patients with Impaired Renal Function When renal function is impaired, a reduced dosage should be employed using the following table: Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Recommended Dosage Regimen Above 30 Usual standard regimen 15 to 30 ½ the usual regimen Below 15 Use not recommended Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Bronchitis in Adults The usual adult dosage in the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis is 1 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim double strength tablet, or 2 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets every 12 hours for 14 days. Pneumocystis jirovecii Pneumonia Treatment Adults and Children: The recommended dosage for treatment of patients with documented Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia is 75 to 100 mg/kg sulfamethoxazole and 15 to 20 mg/kg trimethoprim per 24 hours given in equally divided doses every 6 hours for 14 to 21 days 12 . The following table is a guideline for the upper limit of this dosage: Weight Dose – every 6 hours lb kg Tablets 18 8 - 35 16 1 53 24 1 ½ 70 32 2 or 1 DS tablet 88 40 2 ½ 106 48 3 or 1 ½ DS tablets 141 64 4 or 2 DS tablets 176 80 5 or 2 ½ DS tablets For the lower limit dose (75 mg/kg sulfamethoxazole and 15 mg/kg trimethoprim per 24 hours) administer 75% of the dose in the above table. Prophylaxis Adults: The recommended dosage for prophylaxis in adults is 1 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim double strength tablet daily 13 . Children: For children, the recommended dose is 750 mg/m 2 /day sulfamethoxazole with 150 mg/m 2 /day trimethoprim given orally in equally divided doses twice a day, on 3 consecutive days per week. The total daily dose should not exceed 1,600 mg sulfamethoxazole and 320 mg trimethoprim 14 . The following table is a guideline for the attainment of this dosage in children: Body Surface Area Dose – every 12 hours (m 2 ) Tablets 0.26 - 0.53 ½ 1.06 1 Traveler’s Diarrhea in Adults For the treatment of traveler’s diarrhea, the usual adult dosage is 1 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim double strength tablet or 2 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets every 12 hours for 5 days. The following table is a guideline for the attainment of this dosage: Children 2 months of age or older: Weight Dose – every 12 hours lb kg Tablets 22 10 - 44 20 1 66 30 1½ 88 40 2 or 1 DS tablet For Patients with Impaired Renal Function When renal function is impaired, a reduced dosage should be employed using the following table: Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Recommended Dosage Regimen Above 30 Usual standard regimen 15 to 30 ½ the usual regimen Below 15 Use not recommended Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Bronchitis in Adults The usual adult dosage in the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis is 1 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim double strength tablet or 2 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim single strength tablets every 12 hours for 14 days. Pneumocystis Jirovecii Pneumonia Treatment Adults and Children The recommended dosage for treatment of patients with documented Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia is 75 mg/kg to 100 mg/kg sulfamethoxazole and 15 mg/kg to 20 mg/kg trimethoprim per 24 hours given in equally divided doses every 6 hours for 14 to 21 days 12 . The following table is a guideline for the upper limit of this dosage: Weight Dose – every 6 hours lb kg Tablets 18 8 - 35 16 1 53 24 1½ 70 32 2 or 1 DS tablet 88 40 2½ 106 48 3 or 1½ DS tablets 141 64 4 or 2 DS tablets 176 80 5 or 2½ DS tablets For the lower limit dose (75 mg/kg sulfamethoxazole and 15 mg/kg trimethoprim per 24 hours) administer 75% of the dose in the above table. The following table is a guideline for the attainment of this dosage in children: Body Surface Area Dose – every 12 hours (m 2 ) Tablets 0.26 - 0.53 ½ 1.06 1 Traveler’s Diarrhea in Adults For the treatment of traveler’s diarrhea, the usual adult dosage is 1 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim double strength tablet or 2 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim single strength tablets every 12 hours for 5 days. Urinary Tract Infections and Shigellosis in Adults and Pediatric Patients, and Acute Otitis Media in Children: Adults: The usual adult dosage in the treatment of urinary tract infections is 1 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim DS (double strength) tablet or 2 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets every 12 hours for 10 to 14 days. The following table is a guideline for the attainment of this dosage: Children 2 months of age or older: Weight Dose–every 12 hours lb kg Tablets 22 10 – 44 20 1 66 30 1½ 88 40 2 or 1 DS tablet For Patients with Impaired Renal Function: When renal function is impaired, a reduced dosage should be employed using the following table: Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Recommended Dosage Regimen Above 30 Usual standard regimen 15–30 ½ the usual regimen Below 15 Use not recommended Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Bronchitis in Adults: The usual adult dosage in the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis is 1 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim DS (double strength) tablet or 2 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets every 12 hours for 14 days. Pneumocystis jirovecii Pneumonia: Treatment: Adults and Children: The recommended dosage for treatment of patients with documented Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia is 75 to 100 mg/kg sulfamethoxazole and 15 to 20 mg/kg trimethoprim per 24 hours given in equally divided doses every 6 hours for 14 to 21 days. 12 The following table is a guideline for the upper limit of this dosage: Weight Dose–every 6 hours lb kg Tablets 18 8 – 35 16 1 53 24 1½ 70 32 2 or 1 DS tablet 88 40 2½ 106 48 3 or 1½ DS tablets 141 64 4 or 2 DS tablets 176 80 5 or 2½ DS tablets For the lower limit dose (75 mg/kg sulfamethoxazole and 15 mg/kg trimethoprim per 24 hours) administer 75% of the dose in the above table. Prophylaxis: Adults: The recommended dosage for prophylaxis in adults is 1 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim DS (double strength) tablet daily. 13 Children: For children, the recommended dose is 750 mg/m 2 /day sulfamethoxazole with 150 mg/m 2 /day trimethoprim given orally in equally divided doses twice a day, on 3 consecutive days per week. 14 The following table is a guideline for the attainment of this dosage in children: Body Surface Area Dose–every 12 hours (m 2 ) Tablets 0.26 – 0.53 ½ 1.06 1 Traveler's Diarrhea in Adults: For the treatment of traveler’s diarrhea, the usual adult dosage is 1 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim DS (double strength) tablet or 2 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets every 12 hours for 5 days. The following table is a guideline for the attainment of this dosage: Children 2 months of age or older: Weight Dose – every 12 hours lb kg Tablets 22 10 - 44 20 1 66 30 1 1/2 88 40 2 or 1 DS tablet For Patients with Impaired Renal Function When renal function is impaired, a reduced dosage should be employed using the following table: Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Recommended Dosage Regimen Above 30 Usual standard regimen 15 to 30 1/2 the usual regimen Below 15 Use not recommended Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Bronchitis in Adults The usual adult dosage in the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis is 1 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim double strength tablet, or 2 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets every 12 hours for 14 days. Pneumocystis jirovecii Pneumonia Treatment Adults and Children: The recommended dosage for treatment of patients with documented Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia is 75 to 100 mg/kg sulfamethoxazole and 15 to 20 mg/kg trimethoprim per 24 hours given in equally divided doses every 6 hours for 14 to 21 days. 12 The following table is a guideline for the upper limit of this dosage: Weight Dose – every 6 hours lb kg Tablets 18 8 - 35 16 1 53 24 1 1/2 70 32 2 or 1 DS tablet 88 40 2 1/2 106 48 3 or 1 1/2 DS tablets 141 64 4 or 2 DS tablets 176 80 5 or 2 1/2 DS tablets For the lower limit dose (75 mg/kg sulfamethoxazole and 15 mg/kg trimethoprim per 24 hours) administer 75% of the dose in the above table. Prophylaxis Adults: The recommended dosage for prophylaxis in adults is 1 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim double strength tablet daily. The total daily dose should not exceed 1,600 mg sulfamethoxazole and 320 mg trimethoprim. 14 The following table is a guideline for the attainment of this dosage in children: Body Surface Area Dose – every 12 hours (m 2 ) Tablets 0.26 - 0.53 1/2 1.06 1 Traveler’s Diarrhea in Adults For the treatment of traveler’s diarrhea, the usual adult dosage is 1 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim double strength tablet or 2 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets every 12 hours for 5 days. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets, USP are contraindicated in pediatric patients less than 2 months of age. Urinary Tract Infections and Shigellosis in Adults and Pediatric Patients, and Acute Otitis Media in Children: Adults: The usual adult dosage in the treatment of urinary tract infections is 1 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim DS (double strength) tablet, USP or 2 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets, USP every 12 hours for 10 to 14 days. Children: The recommended dose for children with urinary tract infections or acute otitis media is 40 mg/kg sulfamethoxazole, USP and 8 mg/kg trimethoprim, USP per 24 hours, given in two divided doses every 12 hours for 10 days. The following table is a guideline for the attainment of this dosage: Children 2 months of age or older: Weight Dose – every 12 hours lb kg Tablets 22 10 - 44 20 1 66 30 1 ½ 88 40 2 or 1 DS tablet For Patients with Impaired Renal Function: When renal function is impaired, a reduced dosage should be employed using the following table: Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Recommended Dosage Regimen Above 30 Usual standard regimen 15 to 30 1/2 the usual regimen Below 15 Use not recommended Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Bronchitis in Adults: The usual adult dosage in the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis is 1 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim double strength tablet, USP, or 2 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim single strength tablets, USP, every 12 hours for 14 days. Pneumocystis Jiroveci Pneumonia Treatment: Adults and Children: The recommended dosage for treatment of patients with documented Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia is 75 to 100 mg/kg sulfamethoxazole, USP and 15 to 20 mg/kg trimethoprim, USP per 24 hours given in equally divided doses every 6 hours for 14 to 21 days. 11 The following table is a guideline for the upper limit of this dosage: Weight Dose – every 6 hours lb kg Tablets 18 8 - 35 16 1 53 24 1 ½ 70 32 2 or 1 DS tablet 88 40 2 ½ 106 48 3 or 1 ½ DS tablets 141 64 4 or 2 DS tablets 176 80 5 or 2 ½ DS tablets For the lower limit dose (75 mg/kg sulfamethoxazole, USP and 15 mg/kg trimethoprim, USP per 24 hours) administer 75% of the dose in the above table. Prophylaxis Adults: The recommended dosage for prophylaxis in adults is 1 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim DS (double strength) tablet, USP daily. 12 Children: For children, the recommended dose is 750 mg/m 2 /day sulfamethoxazole, USP with 150 mg/m 2 /day trimethoprim, USP given orally in equally divided doses twice a day, on 3 consecutive days per week. The total daily dose should not exceed 1600 mg sulfamethoxazole, USP and 320 mg trimethoprim, USP. 13 The following table is a guideline for the attainment of this dosage in children: Body Surface Area Dose – every 12 hours (m 2 ) Tablets 0.26 - 0.53 ½ 1.06 1 Traveler’s Diarrhea in Adults: For the treatment of traveler’s diarrhea, the usual adult dosage is 1 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim DS (double strength) tablet, USP or 2 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim single strength tablets, USP every 12 hours for 5 days. Urinary Tract Infections and Shigellosis in Adults and Pediatric Patients, and Acute Otitis Media in Children Adults: The usual adult dosage in the treatment of urinary tract infections is 1 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim DS (double strength) tablet or 2 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets every 12 hours for 10 to 14 days. The following table is a guideline for the attainment of this dosage: Children 2 months of age or older: Weight Dose–every 12 hours lb kg Tablets 22 10 – 44 20 1 66 30 1½ 88 40 2 or 1 DS tablet For Patients with Impaired Renal Function When renal function is impaired, a reduced dosage should be employed using the following table: Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Recommended Dosage Regimen Above 30 Usual standard regimen 15–30 ½ the usual regimen Below 15 Use not recommended Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Bronchitis in Adults The usual adult dosage in the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis is 1 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim DS (double strength) tablet or 2 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets every 12 hours for 14 days. Prophylaxis Adults: The recommended dosage for prophylaxis in adults is 1 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim DS (double strength) tablet daily. 14 The following table is a guideline for the attainment of this dosage in children: Body Surface Area Dose-every 12 hours (m 2 ) Tablets 0.26 – 0.53 ½ 1.06 1 Traveler's Diarrhea in Adults For the treatment of traveler’s diarrhea, the usual adult dosage is 1 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim DS (double strength) tablet or 2 sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets every 12 hours for 5 days. 12 The following table is a guideline for the upper limit of this dosage: Weight Dose-every 6 hours lb kg Tablets 18 8 – 35 16 1 53 24 1½ 70 32 2 or 1 DS tablet 88 40 2½ 106 48 3 or 1½ DS tablets 141 64 4 or 2 DS tablets 176 80 5 or 2½ DS tablets For the lower limit dose (75 mg/kg sulfamethoxazole and 15 mg/kg trimethoprim per 24 hours) administer 75% of the dose in the above table.
Warnings: WARNINGS Embryofetal Toxicity Some epidemiologic studies suggest that exposure to sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim during pregnancy may be associated with an increased risk of congenital malformations, particularly neural tube defects, cardiovascular malformations, urinary tract defects, oral clefts, and club foot. If sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be advised of the potential hazards to the fetus. Hypersensitivity and Other Fatal Reactions Fatalities associated with the administration of sulfonamides, although rare, have occurred due to severe reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, fulminant hepatic necrosis, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia and other blood dyscrasias. Sulfonamides, including sulfonamide-containing products such as sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim, should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any sign of adverse reaction. In rare instances, a skin rash may be followed by a more severe reaction, such as Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, hepatic necrosis, and serious blood disorders (see PRECAUTIONS ). Clinical signs, such as rash, sore throat, fever, arthralgia, pallor, purpura or jaundice may be early indications of serious reactions. Cough, shortness of breath, and pulmonary infiltrates are hypersensitivity reactions of the respiratory tract that have been reported in association with sulfonamide treatment. Thrombocytopenia Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim-induced thrombocytopenia may be an immune-mediated disorder. Severe cases of thrombocytopenia that are fatal or life threatening have been reported. Thrombocytopenia usually resolves within a week upon discontinuation of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim. Streptococcal Infections and Rheumatic Fever The sulfonamides should not be used for treatment of group A β-hemolytic streptococcal infections. In an established infection, they will not eradicate the streptococcus and, therefore, will not prevent sequelae such as rheumatic fever. Clostridium Difficile Associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C. difficile . C. difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD. Hypertoxin producing strains of C. difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality, as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use. Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents. If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C. difficile may need to be discontinued. Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibiotic treatment of C. difficile, and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. Adjunctive Treatment with Leucovorin for Pneumocystis jiroveci Pneumonia Treatment failure and excess mortality were observed when trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole was used concomitantly with leucovorin for the treatment of HIV positive patients with Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia in a randomized placebo controlled trial. 6 Co-administration of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and leucovorin during treatment of Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia should be avoided. If sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be advised of the potential hazards to the fetus (see PRECAUTIONS ). Hypersensitivity and Other Serious or Fatal Reactions Fatalities and serious adverse reactions including severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs) including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis (AFND), acute generalized erythematous pustulosis (AGEP); fulminant hepatic necrosis; agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia and other blood dyscrasias; acute and delayed lung injury; anaphylaxis and circulatory shock have occurred with the administration of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim products, including sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Cough, shortness of breath and pulmonary infiltrates potentially representing hypersensitivity reactions of the respiratory tract have been reported in association with sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim treatment. Other severe pulmonary adverse reactions occurring within days to week of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim initiation and resulting in prolonged respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO), lung transplantation or death have also been reported in patients and otherwise healthy individuals treated with sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim products. Circulatory shock with fever, severe hypotension, and confusion requiring intravenous fluid resuscitation and vasopressors has occurred within minutes to hours of re-challenge with sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim products, including sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim, in patients with history of recent (days to weeks) exposure to sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim. Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any sign of a serious adverse reaction. A skin rash may be followed by a more severe reaction, such as Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, DRESS, AFND, AGEP, hepatic necrosis, or serious blood disorders (see PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Clinical signs, such as rash, pharyngitis, fever, arthralgia, cough, chest pain, dyspnea, pallor, purpura or jaundice may be early indications of serious reactions. Clostridioides difficile Associated Diarrhea Clostridioides difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. Risk Associated with Concurrent Use of Leucovorin for Pneumocystis jirovecii Pneumonia Treatment failure and excess mortality were observed when sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim was used concomitantly with leucovorin for the treatment of HIV positive patients with P. jirovecii pneumonia in a randomized placebo-controlled trial 4 . Avoid co-administration of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim and leucovorin during treatment of P . jirovecii pneumonia. Hypersensitivity Reactions of the Respiratory Tract Cough, shortness of breath and pulmonary infiltrates potentially representing hypersensitivity reactions of the respiratory tract have been reported in association with sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim treatment. Respiratory Failure Other severe pulmonary adverse reactions occurring within days to week of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim initiation and resulting in prolonged respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO), lung transplantation or death have also been reported in patients and otherwise healthy individuals treated with sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim products. Circulatory Shock Circulatory shock with fever, severe hypotension, and confusion requiring intravenous fluid resuscitation and vasopressors has occurred within minutes to hours of re-challenge with sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim products, including sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim, in patients with history of recent (days to weeks) exposure to sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim. Management of Hypersensitivity and Other Serious Reactions Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any sign of a serious adverse reaction. Hemophagocytic Lymphohistiocytosis Cases of hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) have been reported in patients treated with sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim. HLH is a life-threatening syndrome of pathologic immune activation characterized by clinical signs and symptoms of extreme systemic inflammation. Signs and symptoms of HLH may include fever, hepatosplenomegaly, rash, lymphadenopathy, neurologic symptoms, cytopenias, high serum ferritin, hypertriglyceridemia, and liver enzyme and coagulation abnormalities. If HLH is suspected, discontinue sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim immediately and institute appropriate management. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C.difficile . C.difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD. Hypertoxin producing strains of C.difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality, as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy. If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C.difficile may need to be discontinued. Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibiotic treatment of C.difficile, and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. jirovecii pneumonia in a randomized placebo controlled trial. 4 Avoid coadministration of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim and leucovorin during treatment of P. jirovecii pneumonia in a randomized placebo-controlled trial. 4 Avoid co-administration of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim and leucovorin during treatment of P . WARNINGS WARNINGS Embryofetal Toxicity Some epidemiologic studies suggest that exposure to sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim during pregnancy may be associated with an increased risk of congenital malformations, particularly neural tube defects, cardiovascular malformations, urinary tract defects, oral clefts, and club foot. If sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be advised of the potential hazards to the fetus. Sulfonamides, including sulfonamide-containing products such as sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim, should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any sign of adverse reaction. In rare instances, a skin rash may be followed by a more severe reaction, such as Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, hepatic necrosis and serious blood disorders (see PRECAUTIONS ). Cough, shortness of breath and pulmonary infiltrates are hypersensitivity reactions of the respiratory tract that have been reported in association with sulfonamide treatment. Thrombocytopenia Sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim-induced thrombocytopenia may be an immune-mediated disorder. difficile and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. 4 Avoid coadministration of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim and leucovorin during treatment of P .
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to trimethoprim or sulfonamides, in patients with a history of drug-induced immune thrombocytopenia with use of trimethoprim and/or sulfonamides, and in patients with documented megaloblastic anemia due to folate deficiency. Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets are contraindicated in pediatric patients less than 2 months of age. Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets are also contraindicated in patients with marked hepatic damage or with severe renal insufficiency when renal function status cannot be monitored. CONTRAINDICATIONS Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim is contraindicated in the following situations: known hypersensitivity to trimethoprim or sulfonamides history of drug-induced immune thrombocytopenia with use of trimethoprim and/or sulfonamides documented megaloblastic anemia due to folate deficiency pediatric patients less than 2 months of age marked hepatic damage severe renal insufficiency when renal function status cannot be monitored concomitant administration with dofetilide (see PRECAUTIONS ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets are contraindicated in the following situations: • known hypersensitivity to trimethoprim or sulfonamides • history of drug-induced immune thrombocytopenia with use of trimethoprim and/or sulfonamides • documented megaloblastic anemia due to folate deficiency • pediatric patients less than 2 months of age • marked hepatic damage • severe renal insufficiency when renal function status cannot be monitored • • concomitant administration with dofetilide (see PRECAUTIONS ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to trimethoprim, USP or sulfonamides, in patients with a history of drug-induced immune thrombocytopenia with use of trimethoprim, USP and/or sulfonamides, and in patients with documented megaloblastic anemia due to folate deficiency. Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim is contraindicated in pediatric patients less than 2 months of age. Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim is also contraindicated in patients with marked hepatic damage or with severe renal insufficiency when renal function status cannot be monitored. CONTRAINDICATIONS Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim tablets are contraindicated in the following situations: known hypersensitivity to trimethoprim or sulfonamides history of drug-induced immune thrombocytopenia with use of trimethoprim and/or sulfonamides documented megaloblastic anemia due to folate deficiency pediatric patients less than 2 months of age marked hepatic damage severe renal insufficiency when renal function status cannot be monitored concomitant administration with dofetilide (see PRECAUTIONS ).
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Potential for Sulfamethoxazole and Trimethoprim to Affect Other Drugs Trimethoprim is an inhibitor of CYP2C8 as well as OCT2 transporter. Sulfamethoxazole is an inhibitor of CYP2C9. Caution is recommended when sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim is co-administered with drugs that are substrates of CYP2C8 and 2C9 or OCT2. In elderly patients concurrently receiving certain diuretics, primarily thiazides, an increased incidence of thrombocytopenia with purpura has been reported. It has been reported that sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim may prolong the prothrombin time in patients who are receiving the anticoagulant warfarin (a CYP2C9 substrate). This interaction should be kept in mind when sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim is given to patients already on anticoagulant therapy, and the coagulation time should be reassessed. Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim may inhibit the hepatic metabolism of phenytoin (a CYP2C9 substrate). Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim, given at a common clinical dosage, increased the phenytoin half-life by 39% and decreased the phenytoin metabolic clearance rate by 27%. When administering these drugs concurrently, one should be alert for possible excessive phenytoin effect. Sulfonamides can also displace methotrexate from plasma protein binding sites and can compete with the renal transport of methotrexate, thus increasing free methotrexate concentrations. There have been reports of marked but reversible nephrotoxicity with coadministration of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim and cyclosporine in renal transplant recipients. Increased digoxin blood levels can occur with concomitant sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim therapy, especially in elderly patients. Serum digoxin levels should be monitored. Increased sulfamethoxazole blood levels may occur in patients who are also receiving indomethacin. Occasional reports suggest that patients receiving pyrimethamine as malaria prophylaxis in doses exceeding 25 mg weekly may develop megaloblastic anemia if sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim is prescribed. The efficacy of tricyclic antidepressants can decrease when coadministered with sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim. Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim potentiates the effect of oral hypoglycemics that are metabolized by CYP2C8 (e.g., pioglitazone, repaglinide, and rosiglitazone) or CYP2C9 (e.g., glipizide and glyburide) or eliminated renally via OCT2 (e.g., metformin). Additional monitoring of blood glucose may be warranted. In the literature, a single case of toxic delirium has been reported after concomitant intake of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim and amantadine (an OCT2 substrate). Cases of interactions with other OCT2 substrates, memantine and metformin, have also been reported. In the literature, three cases of hyperkalemia in elderly patients have been reported after concomitant intake of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim and an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor. 8,9 Avoid coadministration of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim with drugs that are substrates of CYP2C8 and 2C9 or OCT2. Table 1: Drug Interactions with Sulfamethoxazole and Trimethoprim Drug(s) Recommendation Comments Diuretics Avoid concurrent use In elderly patients concurrently receiving certain diuretics, primarily thiazides, an increased incidence of thrombocytopenia with purpura has been reported. Warfarin Monitor prothrombin time and INR It has been reported that sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim may prolong the prothrombin time in patients who are receiving the anticoagulant warfarin (a CYP2C9 substrate). Phenytoin Monitor serum phenytoin levels Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim may inhibit the hepatic metabolism of phenytoin (a CYP2C9 substrate). Methotrexate Avoid concurrent use Sulfonamides can also displace methotrexate from plasma protein binding sites and can compete with the renal transport of methotrexate, thus increasing free methotrexate concentrations. Cyclosporine Avoid concurrent use There have been reports of marked but reversible nephrotoxicity with coadministration of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim and cyclosporine in renal transplant recipients. Digoxin Monitor serum digoxin levels Increased digoxin blood levels can occur with concomitant sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim therapy, especially in elderly patients. Indomethacin Avoid concurrent use Increased sulfamethoxazole blood levels may occur in patients who are also receiving indomethacin. Pyrimethamine Avoid concurrent use Occasional reports suggest that patients receiving pyrimethamine as malaria prophylaxis in doses exceeding 25 mg weekly may develop megaloblastic anemia if sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim is prescribed. Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) Monitor therapeutic response and adjust dose of TCA accordingly The efficacy of tricyclic antidepressants can decrease when coadministered with sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim. Oral Hypoglycemics Monitor blood glucose more frequently Like other sulfonamide-containing drugs, sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim potentiates the effect of oral hypoglycemic that are metabolized by CYP2C8 (e.g., pioglitazone, repaglinide, and rosiglitazone) or CYP2C9 (e.g., glipizide and glyburide) or eliminated renally via OCT2 (e.g., metformin). Amantadine Avoid concurrent use In the literature, a single case of toxic delirium has been reported after concomitant intake of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim and amantadine (an OCT2 substrate). Angiotensin Converting Enzyme Inhibitors Avoid concurrent use In the literature, three cases of hyperkalemia in elderly patients have been reported after concomitant intake of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim and an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor. 5,6 Zidovudine Monitor for hematologic toxicity Zidovudine and sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim are known to induce hematological abnormalities. Hence, there is potential for an additive myelotoxicity when coadministered. 7 Dofetilide Concurrent administration is contraindicated Elevated plasma concentrations of dofetilide have been reported following concurrent administration of trimethoprim and dofetilide. Increased plasma concentrations of dofetilide may cause serious ventricular arrhythmias associated with QT interval prolongation, including torsade de pointes . 8,9 Procainamide Closely monitor for clinical and ECG signs of procainamide toxicity and/or procainamide plasma concentration if available Trimethoprim increases the plasma concentrations of procainamide and its active N-acetyl metabolite (NAPA) when trimethoprim and procainamide are coadministered. The increased procainamide and NAPA plasma concentrations that resulted from the pharmacokinetic interaction with trimethoprim are associated with further prolongation of the QTc interval. 10

=== METHYLPHENIDATE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules are indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), in pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules are a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) in pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules are indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) in pediatric patients 6 to 15 years of age. Limitations of Use The use of methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules is not recommended in pediatric patients younger than 6 years of age because they had higher plasma exposure and a higher incidence of adverse reactions (e.g. weight loss) than patients 6 years and older at the same dosage [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) . Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules are a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) in pediatric patients 6 to 15 years of age. (1) Limitations of Use The use of methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules is not recommended in pediatric patients younger than 6 years of age because they had higher exposure and a higher incidence of adverse reactions (e.g., weight loss) than patients 6 years and older at the same dosage. (5.7 , 8.4) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of: Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorders (ADHD) in pediatric patients 6 years and older and adults Narcolepsy Methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets are a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorders (ADHD) and Narcolepsy ( 1 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) in children 6 years of age and older, adolescents, and adults up to the age of 65 [see Clinical Studies (14)]. Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets are a CNS stimulant indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) in children 6 years of age and older, adolescents, and adults up to the age of 65. (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE CONCERTA is indicated for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in patients aged 6 to 65 years old. Limitations of Use The use of CONCERTA is not recommended in pediatric patients younger than 6 years of age because they had higher plasma exposure and a higher incidence of adverse reactions (e.g., weight loss) than patients 6 years and older at the same dosage [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) and Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. CONCERTA is a CNS stimulant indicated for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in patients aged 6 to 65 years old. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use The use of CONCERTA is not recommended in pediatric patients younger than 6 years of age because they had higher plasma exposure and a higher incidence of adverse reactions (e.g., weight loss) than patients 6 years and older at the same dosage ( 5.7 , 8.4 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of: Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorders (ADHD) in pediatric patients 6 years and older and adults Narcolepsy Methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets are a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorders (ADHD) and Narcolepsy (1). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of: Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorders (ADHD) in pediatric patients 6 years and older and adults Narcolepsy Methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorders (ADHD) and Narcolepsy (1).
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer orally once daily in the morning. ( 2.2 ) Capsules may be swallowed whole, or opened and the entire contents sprinkled on applesauce. ( 2.2 ) Should not be crushed, chewed, or divided. ( 2.2 ) Patients new to methylphenidate: Start at 20 mg daily, titrating the dose weekly in 10-mg increments. Doses above 60 mg daily are not recommended. ( 2.3 ) For patients currently using methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets or methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets: Dosage is based on current dose regimen. ( 2.4 ) If switching from other methylphenidate products, discontinue treatment and titrate with methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Pretreatment Screening Prior to initiating treatment with central nervous system (CNS) stimulants, including methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules, assess for the presence of cardiac disease (i.e., perform a careful history including family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia, and physical examination) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing, and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy. Maintain careful prescription records, educate patients about abuse, monitor for signs of abuse and overdose, and periodically reevaluate the need for methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules use [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 )]. 2.2 General Dosing Information The recommended starting dose for methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules is 20 mg once daily. Increase dosage gradually, in increments of 10 mg weekly. Daily dosage above 60 mg is not recommended. When a lower initial dose is appropriate, patients may begin treatment with 10 mg. Administer methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules orally once daily in the morning. Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules may be swallowed as whole capsules or may be administered by sprinkling the capsule contents on a small amount of applesauce (see specific instructions below). Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules and/or their contents should not be crushed, chewed, or divided. The capsules may be carefully opened and the beads sprinkled over a spoonful of applesauce. The applesauce should not be warm because it could affect the modified release properties of this formulation. The mixture of drug and applesauce should be consumed immediately in its entirety. The drug and applesauce mixture should not be stored for future use. Pharmacological treatment of ADHD may be needed for extended periods. Periodically reevaluate the long-term use of methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets and methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets, and adjust dosage as needed. 2.3 Patients Currently Using Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Tablets or Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets The recommended dose of methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules for patients currently taking methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets twice daily or methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release (SR) is provided below. Table 1: Recommended Dose Conversion from Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Tablets or Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Previous Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Tablets or Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Dose Recommended Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Dose 5 mg methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets twice daily 10 mg once daily 10 mg methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets twice daily or 20 mg methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets 20 mg once daily 15 mg methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets twice daily 30 mg once daily 20 mg methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets twice daily or 40 mg methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets 40 mg once daily 30 mg methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets twice daily or 60 mg methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets 60 mg once daily 2.4 Switching from other Methylphenidate Products If switching from other methylphenidate products, discontinue that treatment, and titrate with methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules using the titration schedule. Do not substitute for other methylphenidate products on a milligram-per-milligram basis, because different methylphenidate base compositions and differing pharmacokinetic profiles [see Description ( 11 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Clinical judgment should be used when selecting the starting dose. 2.5 Dose Reduction and Discontinuation If paradoxical worsening of symptoms or other adverse reactions occur, reduce the dosage, or, if necessary, discontinue methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules. If improvement is not observed after appropriate dosage adjustment over a one-month period, the drug should be discontinued. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take orally once daily in the morning, before breakfast. Swallow whole with the aid of liquids, or sprinkle contents onto a small amount of applesauce and give immediately. Do not crush or chew the capsule or capsule contents. (2.1) Recommended starting dose is 20 mg once daily. Dosage may be increased 10 mg to 20 mg at weekly intervals; do not exceed 60 mg per day. (2.2) 2.1 Pretreatment Screening Prior to treating patients with methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules, assess: for the presence of cardiac disease (i.e., perform a careful history, family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia, and physical exam) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] . the family history and clinically evaluate patients for motor or verbal tics or Tourette’s syndrome before initiating methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] . 2.2 Dosage Recommendations The recommended starting dose of methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules is 20 mg once daily. Dosage may be adjusted in weekly 10 mg to 20 mg increments to the maximum recommended dose of 60 mg per day. Dosage should be individualized according to the needs and responses of the patient. 2.3 Administration Instructions Administer methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules orally once daily in the morning, before breakfast. Swallow the capsule whole with the aid of liquids. Alternatively, open the capsule and sprinkle the contents onto a small amount (tablespoon) of applesauce and administer immediately. Do not store for future use. Drink fluids following the intake of the sprinkled capsule contents with applesauce. The capsules and the capsule contents must not be crushed or chewed. 2.4 Dosage Reduction and Discontinuation If paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse reactions occur, reduce dosage or, if necessary, discontinue methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules. If improvement is not observed after appropriate dosage adjustment over a one-month period, discontinue methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Pediatric Patients 6 Years and Older: Start with 5 mg twice daily (before breakfast and lunch), titrating the dose weekly in 5 mg to 10 mg increments. Dosages above 60 mg/day are not recommended (2.2) . Adults: Average daily dosage is 20 mg to 30 mg, administered 2 or 3 times daily, preferably 30 to 45 minutes before meals. Maximum total daily dosage is 60 mg (2.2) . 2.1 Pre-treatment Screening Prior to treating patients with methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets, assess: for the presence of cardiac disease (i.e., perform a careful history, family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia, and physical exam) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . the family history and clinically evaluate patients for motor or verbal tics or Tourette’s syndrome before initiating methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] . 2.2 General Dosing Information Pediatric Patients 6 years and Older: Start with 5 mg orally twice daily (before breakfast and lunch). Increase dosage gradually, in increments of 5 mg to 10 mg weekly. Adults: Average dosage is 20 mg to 30 mg daily. Administer orally in divided doses 2 or 3 times daily, preferably 30 to 45 minutes before meals. Maximum total daily dosage is 60 mg. Patients who are unable to sleep if medication is taken late in the day should take the last dose before 6 p.m. 2.3 Dosage Reduction and Discontinuation If paradoxical worsening of symptoms or other adverse reactions occur, reduce the dosage, or, if necessary, discontinue methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets should be taken once daily in the morning and swallowed whole with the aid of liquids. Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets should not be chewed or crushed. Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets may be taken with or without food. (2.2) For children and adolescents new to methylphenidate, the recommended starting dosage is 18 mg once daily. Dosage may be increased by 18 mg/day at weekly intervals and should not exceed 54 mg/day in children and 72 mg/day in adolescents. (2.3) For adult patients new to methylphenidate, the recommended starting dose is 18 or 36 mg/day. Dosage may be increased by 18 mg/day at weekly intervals and should not exceed 72 mg/day for adults. (2.3) For patients currently using methylphenidate, dosing is based on current dose regimen and clinical judgment. (2.4) 2.1 Pretreatment Screening Prior to treating patients with methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets, assess: for the presence of cardiac disease (i.e., perform a careful history, family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia, and physical exam) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. the family history and clinically evaluate patients for motor or verbal tics or Tourette’s syndrome before initiating methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)]. 2.2 Recommended Dosage Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets should be administered orally once daily in the morning with or without food. Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets must be swallowed whole with the aid of liquids, and must not be chewed, divided, or crushed [see Patient Counseling Information (17)]. 2.3 Patients New to Methylphenidate The recommended starting dose of methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets for patients who are not currently taking methylphenidate or stimulants other than methylphenidate is 18 mg once daily for children and adolescents and 18 or 36 mg once daily for adults (see Table 1 ). Table 1. Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Recommended Starting Doses and Dose Ranges Patient Age Recommended Starting Dose Dose Range Children 6 - 12 years of age 18 mg/day 18 mg - 54 mg/day Adolescents 13 - 17 years of age 18 mg/day 18 mg - 72 mg/day not to exceed 2 mg/kg/day Adults 18 - 65 years of age 18 or 36 mg/day 18 mg - 72 mg/day 2.4 Patients Currently Using Methylphenidate The recommended dose of methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets for patients who are currently taking methylphenidate twice daily or three times daily at doses of 10 to 60 mg/day is provided in Table 2. Dosing recommendations are based on current dose regimen and clinical judgment. Conversion dosage should not exceed 72 mg daily. Table 2. Recommended Dose Conversion from Methylphenidate Regimens to Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Previous Methylphenidate Daily Dose Recommended Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Starting Dose 5 mg Methylphenidate twice daily or three times daily 18 mg every morning 10 mg Methylphenidate twice daily or three times daily 36 mg every morning 15 mg Methylphenidate twice daily or three times daily 54 mg every morning 20 mg Methylphenidate twice daily or three times daily 72 mg every morning Other methylphenidate regimens: Clinical judgment should be used when selecting the starting dose. 2.5 Dose Titration Doses may be increased in 18 mg increments at weekly intervals for patients who have not achieved an optimal response at a lower dose. Daily dosages above 54 mg in children and 72 mg in adolescents have not been studied and are not recommended. Daily dosages above 72 mg in adults are not recommended. A 27 mg dosage strength is available for physicians who wish to prescribe between the 18 mg and 36 mg dosages. 2.6 Dosage Reduction and Discontinuation If paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse reactions occur, reduce dosage or, if necessary, discontinue methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets. If improvement is not observed after appropriate dosage adjustment over a one-month period, discontinue methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Prior to initiating CONCERTA treatment assess for ( 2.1 ): the presence of cardiac disease for family history of tics or Tourette' syndrome and clinically evaluate patients for motor or verbal tics or Tourette's syndrome Administer once daily in the morning with or without food. Swallow whole with liquids; do not chew, divide, or crush. ( 2.2 ) Recommended dosage in pediatric patients 6 to 17 years of age new to methylphenidate: starting dosage is18 mg once daily. May be increased weekly in 18 mg increments. Maximum dosage for pediatric patients ( 2.3 ): 6 to 12 years: 54 mg once daily 13 to 17 years: 72 mg once daily Recommended dosage in adults (up to 65 years of age) new to methylphenidate: starting dosage is 18 mg or 36 mg once daily. May be increased weekly in 18 mg increments, up to 72 mg once daily. ( 2.3 ) Patients currently using immediate-release methylphenidate: starting CONCERTA dosage is based on current dosage regimen. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Pretreatment Screening Prior to treating patients with CONCERTA, assess: For the presence of cardiac disease (e.g., perform a careful history, family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia, and physical exam) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. The family history for tics or Tourette' syndrome and clinically evaluate patients for motor or verbal tics or Tourette's syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ]. 2.2 Important Administration Instructions Administer CONCERTA orally once daily in the morning with or without food. Swallow CONCERTA whole with liquids. Do not split, crush, or chew the extended-release tablets because doing so will compromise the extended-release characteristics of CONCERTA and may compromise the effectiveness or safety of CONCERTA. 2.3 Recommended CONCERTA Dosage in Patients New to Methylphenidate See Table 1 for the recommended once-daily dosage of CONCERTA in patients who were not taking a methylphenidate product. In patients who have not achieved an optimal response at a lower dosage, increase the CONCERTA dosage in 18 mg increments at weekly intervals. However, if a slower titration is recommended for patients who have not achieved an optimal response taking 18 mg of CONCERTA once daily, increase their daily dosage to 27 mg once per day. Table 1: Recommended CONCERTA Dosage in Patients New to Methylphenidate Patient Population Recommended Starting Dosage Dosage Range Pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age 18 mg once daily 18 mg to 54 mg once daily Pediatric patients 13 to 17 years of age 18 mg once daily 18 mg to 72 mg once daily (not to exceed 2 mg/kg/day) Adults 18 to 65 years of age 18 or 36 mg once daily 18 mg to 72 mg once daily 2.4 Recommended CONCERTA Dosage in Patients Switching from Another Methylphenidate Product See Table 2 for the recommended starting dosage of CONCERTA in patients switching from an immediate-release methylphenidate product administered twice daily or three times daily (total daily dosage of 10 to 60 mg/day). Table 2: Recommended Starting Dosage in Patients Switching from Another Methylphenidate Product Previous Immediate-release Methylphenidate Daily Dosage Recommended CONCERTA Starting Dosage 5 mg twice daily or three times daily 18 mg every morning 10 mg twice daily or three times daily 36 mg every morning 15 mg twice daily or three times daily 54 mg every morning 20 mg twice daily or three times daily 72 mg every morning Only for patients 13–65 years of age. The maximum recommended dosage in pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age is 54 mg/day, and the maximum recommended dosage in patients 13–65 years old is 72 mg/day. 2.5 Dosage Reduction and Discontinuation If paradoxical aggravation of ADHD symptoms or CONCERTA-associated adverse reactions occur, reduce the CONCERTA dosage or, if necessary, discontinue CONCERTA. If ADHD improvement is not observed after appropriate dosage modification over a one-month period, discontinue CONCERTA. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Tablets (2.2) : Pediatric Patients 6 Years and Older: Start with 5 mg twice daily (before breakfast and lunch), titrating the dose weekly in 5- to 10-mg increments. Dosages above 60 mg/day are not recommended. 2.1 Pretreatment Screening Prior to treating patients with methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets, assess: for the presence of cardiac disease (i.e., perform a careful history, family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia, and physical exam) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. the family history and clinically evaluate patients for motor or verbal tics or Tourette’s syndrome before initiating methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. 2.2 General Dosing Information Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Tablets Pediatric Patients 6 years and Older: Start with 5 mg orally twice daily (before breakfast and lunch). Increase dosage gradually, in increments of 5- to 10-mg weekly. Adults: Average dosage is 20 to 30 mg daily. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Pediatric Patients 6 Years and Older: Start with 5 mg twice daily (before breakfast and lunch), titrating the dose weekly in 5- to 10-mg increments. Dosages above 60 mg/day are not recommended (2.2). Maximum total daily dosage is 60 mg (2.2). 2.1 Pretreatment Screening Prior to treating patients with Methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets, assess: for the presence of cardiac disease (i.e., perform a careful history, family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia, and physical exam) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . the family history and clinically evaluate patients for motor or verbal tics or Tourette’s syndrome before initiating Methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. Increase dosage gradually, in increments of 5-to 10-mg weekly. 2.3 Dose Reduction and Discontinuation If paradoxical worsening of symptoms or other adverse reactions occur, reduce the dosage, or, if necessary, discontinue Methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other components of methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules. Hypersensitivity reactions such as angioedema and anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients treated with methylphenidate [ s ee Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. Concomitant treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), or within 14 days following discontinuation of treatment with an MAOI, because of the risk of hypertensive crises [ s ee Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or product components. ( 4 ) Concurrent treatment with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI), or use of an MAOI within the preceding 14 days. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules are contraindicated in patients with: known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other component of methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules. Angioedema has been reported in patients treated with methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients treated with other methylphenidate products [see Adverse Reactions (6) ] . Concomitant treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), or within 14 days following discontinuation of treatment with an MAOI, because of the risk of hypertensive crisis [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules contain sucrose. Therefore, patients with hereditary problems of fructose intolerance, glucose-galactose malabsorption, or sucrase-isomaltase insufficiency should not take this medicine. Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other components of methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules. ( 4 ) Use in patients with patients with hereditary problems of fructose intolerance, glucose-galactose malabsorption, or sucrase-isomaltase insufficiency. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other components of methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets. Hypersensitivity reactions, such as angioedema and anaphylactic reactions, have been reported in patients treated with methylphenidate [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. Concomitant treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), or within 14 days following discontinuation of treatment with an MAOI, because of the risk of hypertensive crises [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other product components of methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets ( 4 ). Concurrent treatment with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI), or use of an MAOI within the preceding 14 days ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to the product (4.1) Do not use methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets in patients currently using or within 2 weeks of using an MAO inhibitor (4.2) 4.1 Hypersensitivity to Methylphenidate Hypersensitivity reactions, such as angioedema and anaphylactic reactions, have been observed in patients treated with methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets. Therefore, methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to methylphenidate or other components of the product [see Adverse Reactions (6.5)] . 4.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets are contraindicated during treatment with monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors, and also within a minimum of 14 days following discontinuation of a MAO inhibitor (hypertensive crises may result) [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS CONCERTA is contraindicated in patients: Known to be hypersensitive to methylphenidate or other components of CONCERTA. Hypersensitivity reactions, such as angioedema and anaphylactic reactions, have been reported in patients treated with CONCERTA. [see Adverse Reactions (6) ] . Receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), and within 14 days following discontinuation of treatment with a MAO inhibitor because of the risk of a hypertensive crisis [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other components of CONCERTA ( 4 ) Receiving concomitant monoamine oxidase inhibitors and within 14 days following discontinuation of treatment with a MAO inhibitor ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity reactions, such as angioedema and anaphylactic reactions, have been reported in patients treated with methylphenidate [ see Adverse Reactions (6) ]. Concomitant treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), or within 14 days following discontinuation of treatment with an MAOI, because of the risk of hypertensive crises [ see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other product components of methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets (4) . Concurrent treatment with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI), or use of an MAOI within the preceding 14 days (4) . Hypersensitivity reactions, such as angioedema and anaphylactic reactions, have been reported in patients treated with methylphenidate [see Adverse Reactions (6)] . Concomitant treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), or within 14 days following discontinuation of treatment with an MAOI, because of the risk of hypertensive crises [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] . Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other product components of Methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets (4). Concurrent treatment with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI), or use of an MAOI within the preceding 14 days (4). Hypersensitivity reactions, such as angioedema and anaphylactic reactions, have been reported in patients treated with methylphenidate [ see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ].
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antihypertensive drugs: Monitor blood pressure and heart. Adjust dosage of antihypertensive drug as needed. ( 7 ) Avoid use of methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules on the day of surgery if halogenated anesthetics will be used. ( 7 ) 7.1 Clinically Important Interactions with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Table 3 presents clinically important drug interactions with methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules. Table 3: Drugs Having Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) Clinical Impact Concomitant use of MAOIs and CNS stimulants, including methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules, can cause hypertensive crisis. Potential outcomes include death, stroke, myocardial infarction, aortic dissection, ophthalmological complications, eclampsia, pulmonary edema, and renal failure [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Intervention Concomitant use of methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules with MAOIs or within 14 days after discontinuing MAOI treatment is contraindicated. Examples selegiline, tranylcypromine, isocarboxazid, phenelzine, linezolid, methylene blue Antihypertensive Drugs Clinical Impact Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Intervention Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dosage of the antihypertensive drug as needed. Examples Potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics, calcium channel blockers, ACE inhibitors, ARBs, beta blockers, centrally acting alpha-2 receptor agonists. Halogenated Anesthetics Clinical Impact Concomitant use of halogenated anesthetics and methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules may increase the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery. Intervention Avoid use of methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release capsules in patients being treated with anesthetics on the day of surgery. Examples halothane, isoflurane, enflurane, desflurane, sevoflurane 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 3 presents clinically important drug interactions with methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release. Table 3: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-Release Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of MAOIs and CNS stimulants, including methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release, can cause hypertensive crisis. Potential outcomes include death, stroke, myocardial infarction, aortic dissection, ophthalmological complications, eclampsia, pulmonary edema, and renal failure [see Contraindications (4) ] . Intervention: Concomitant use of methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days after discontinuing MAOI treatment is contraindicated. Antihypertensive Drugs Clinical Impact: Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Intervention: Adjust the dosage of the antihypertensive drug as needed. Halogenated Anesthetics Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of halogenated anesthetics and methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release may increase the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery. Intervention: Monitor blood pressure and avoid use of methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release in patients being treated with anesthetics on the day of surgery. Risperidone Clinical Impact: Combined use of methylphenidate with risperidone when there is a change, whether an increase or decrease, in dosage of either or both medications, may increase the risk of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS). Intervention: Monitor for signs of EPS. Antihypertensive Drugs : Monitor blood pressure. ( 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antihypertensive Drugs: Monitor blood pressure. Adjust dosage of antihypertensive drug as needed ( 7.1 ). 7.1 Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Table 1 presents clinically important drug interactions with methylphenidate hydrochloride. Table 1: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) Clinical Impact Concomitant use of MAOIs and CNS stimulants, including methylphenidate hydrochloride can cause hypertensive crisis. Intervention Concomitant use of methylphenidate hydrochloride with MAOIs or within 14 days after discontinuing MAOI treatment is contraindicated. Antihypertensive Drugs Clinical Impact Methylphenidate hydrochloride may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Halogenated Anesthetics Clinical Impact Concomitant use of halogenated anesthetics and methylphenidate hydrochloride may increase the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery. Intervention Avoid use of methylphenidate hydrochloride in patients being treated with anesthetics on the day of surgery. Risperidone Clinical Impact Combined use of methylphenidate with risperidone when there is a change, whether an increase or decrease, in dosage of either or both medications, may increase the risk of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) Intervention Monitor for signs of EPS 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets may increase blood pressure; use cautiously with vasopressors ( 7.2 ) Inhibition of metabolism of coumarin anticoagulants, anticonvulsants, and some antidepressants ( 7.3 ) 7.1 MAO Inhibitors Methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets should not be used in patients being treated (currently or within the preceding 2 weeks) with MAO inhibitors [see Contraindications (4.2) ]. 7.2 Vasopressor Agents Because of possible increases in blood pressure, methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets should be used cautiously with vasopressor agents [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. 7.3 Coumarin Anticoagulants, Antidepressants, and Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors Human pharmacologic studies have shown that methylphenidate may inhibit the metabolism of coumarin anticoagulants, anticonvulsants (e.g., phenobarbital, phenytoin, primidone), and some antidepressants (tricyclics and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors). Downward dose adjustment of these drugs may be required when given concomitantly with methylphenidate. It may be necessary to adjust the dosage and monitor plasma drug concentrations (or, in the case of coumarin, coagulation times), when initiating or discontinuing concomitant methylphenidate. 7.4 Halogenated Anesthetics Concomitant use of halogenated anesthetics and methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets may increase the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery. Monitor blood pressure and avoid use of methylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release tablets in patients being treated with anesthetics on the day of surgery. 7.5 Risperidone Combined use of methylphenidate with risperidone when there is a change, whether an increase or decrease, in dosage of either or both medications, may increase the risk of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS). Monitor for signs of EPS. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 6 describes clinically significant drug interactions with CONCERTA. Table 6: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Prevention or Management Concomitant use of CNS stimulants, including CONCERTA, with MAOIs or within 14 days after discontinuing an MAOI is contraindicated [ see Contraindications (4) ]. Mechanism and Clinical Effect(s) Concomitant use of MAOIs and CNS stimulants, including CONCERTA, can cause hypertensive crisis. Potential outcomes include death, stroke, myocardial infarction, aortic dissection, ophthalmological complications, eclampsia, pulmonary edema, and renal failure. Antihypertensive Drugs Prevention or Management Increase monitoring for blood pressure and adjust the dosage of the antihypertensive drug, as needed. Mechanism and Clinical Effect(s) CONCERTA may decrease effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions 5.3 ]. Halogenated Anesthetics Prevention or Management Avoid use of CONCERTA in patients being treated with anesthetics on the day of surgery. Mechanism and Clinical Effect(s) Concomitant use of halogenated anesthetics and CONCERTA may increase the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery. Risperidone Prevention or Management Monitor for signs of extrapyramidal symptoms. Mechanism and Clinical Effect(s) The risk of risperidone-associated extrapyramidal symptoms may increase in patients taking concomitant CONCERTA when there is a change in the CONCERTA or risperidone dosage. ( 7 ) See additional clinically significant drug interactions, in the DRUG INTERACTIONS section ( 7 ). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antihypertensive Drugs : Monitor blood pressure. 7.1 Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Tablets Table 1 presents clinically important drug interactions with methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets Table 1: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Tablets Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) Clinical Impact Concomitant use of MAOIs and CNS stimulants, including methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets can cause hypertensive crisis. Potential outcomes include death, stroke, myocardial infarction, aortic dissection, ophthalmological complications, eclampsia, pulmonary edema, and renal failure [ see Contraindications (4) ] . Intervention Concomitant use of methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets with MAOIs or within 14 days after discontinuing MAOI treatment is contraindicated. Antihypertensive Drugs Clinical Impact Methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Halogenated Anesthetics Clinical Impact Concomitant use of halogenated anesthetics and methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets may increase the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery. Intervention Avoid use of methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets in patients being treated with anesthetics on the day of surgery. Adjust dosage of antihypertensive drug as needed (7.1). See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION and Medication Guide Revised 10/2025 7.1 Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets Table 1 presents clinically important drug interactions with Methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets. Table 1: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) Clinical Impact Concomitant use of MAOIs and CNS stimulants, including Methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets can cause hypertensive crisis. Potential outcomes include death, stroke, myocardial infarction, aortic dissection, ophthalmological complications, eclampsia, pulmonary edema, and renal failure [see Contraindications (4)] . Antihypertensive Drugs Clinical Impact Methylphenidate hydrochloride tablets may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] .

=== NIFEDIPINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS & USAGE I. Vasospastic Angina Nifedipine extended-release tablets are indicated for the management of vasospastic angina confirmed by any of the following criteria: 1) classical pattern of angina at rest accompanied by ST segment elevation, 2) angina or coronary artery spasm provoked by ergonovine, or 3) angiographically demonstrated coronary artery spasm. In those patients who have had angiography, the presence of significant fixed obstructive disease is not incompatible with the diagnosis of vasospastic angina, provided that the above criteria are satisfied. Nifedipine extended-release tablets may also be used where the clinical presentation suggests a possible vasospastic component, but where vasospasm has not been confirmed, e.g., where pain has a variable threshold on exertion, or in unstable angina where electrocardiographic findings are compatible with intermittent vasospasm, or when angina is refractory to nitrates and/or adequate doses of beta blockers. II. Chronic Stable Angina (Classical Effort-Associated Angina) Nifedipine extended-release tablets are indicated for the management of chronic stable angina (effort-associated angina) without evidence of vasospasm in patients who remain symptomatic despite adequate doses of beta blockers and/or organic nitrates or who cannot tolerate those agents. In chronic stable angina (effort-associated angina), nifedipine has been effective in controlled trials of up to eight weeks duration in reducing angina frequency and increasing exercise tolerance, but confirmation of sustained effectiveness and evaluation of long-term safety in these patients is incomplete. Controlled studies in small numbers of patients suggest concomitant use of nifedipine and beta-blocking agents may be beneficial in patients with chronic stable angina, but available information is not sufficient to predict with confidence the effects of concurrent treatment, especially in patients with compromised left ventricular function or cardiac conduction abnormalities. When introducing such concomitant therapy, care must be taken to monitor blood pressure closely, since severe hypotension can occur from the combined effects of the drugs. (See WARNINGS ) III. Hypertension Nifedipine extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including nifedipine extended-release tablets. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. Nifedipine extended-release tablets may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. INDICATIONS AND USAGE I. Vasospastic Angina Nifedipine Extended-release Tablet is indicated for the management of vasospastic angina confirmed by any of the following criteria: 1) classical pattern of angina at rest accompanied by ST segment elevation, 2) angina or coronary artery spasm provoked by ergonovine, or 3) angiographically demonstrated coronary artery spasm. Nifedipine Extended-release Tablet may also be used where the clinical presentation suggests a possible vasospastic component but where vasospasm has not been confirmed, e.g., where pain has a variable threshold on exertion or in unstable angina where electrocardiographic findings are compatible with intermittent vasospasm, or when angina is refractory to nitrates and/or adequate doses of beta-blockers. Chronic Stable Angina (Classical Effort-Associated Angina) Nifedipine Extended-release Tablet is indicated for the management of chronic stable angina (effort-associated angina) without evidence of vasospasm in patients who remain symptomatic despite adequate doses of beta-blockers and/or organic nitrates or who cannot tolerate those agents. In chronic stable angina (effort-associated angina) nifedipine has been effective in controlled trials of up to eight weeks duration in reducing angina frequency and increasing exercise tolerance, but confirmation of sustained effectiveness and evaluation of long-term safety in these patients is incomplete. When introducing such concomitant therapy, care must be taken to monitor blood pressure closely since severe hypotension can occur from the combined effects of the drugs (see WARNINGS .) III. Hypertension Nifedipine Extended-release Tablet is indicated for the treatment of hypertension. It may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. Nifedipine Extended-release Tablet is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including Nifedipine Extended-release Tablet. Nifedipine Extended-release Tablet may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nifedipine extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension. INDICATIONS AND USAGE I.Vasospastic Angina Nifedipine extended-release tablets are indicated for the management of vasospastic angina confirmed by any of the following criteria: 1) classical pattern of angina at rest accompanied by ST segment elevation, 2) angina or coronary artery spasm provoked by ergonovine, or 3) angiographically demonstrated coronary artery spasm. II.Chronic Stable Angina (Classical Effort-Associated Angina) Nifedipine extended-release tablets are indicated for the management of chronic stable angina (effort-associated angina) without evidence of vasospasm in patients who remain symptomatic despite adequate doses of beta blockers and/or organic nitrates or who cannot tolerate those agents. When introducing such concomitant therapy, care must be taken to monitor blood pressure closely, since severe hypotension can occur from the combined effects of the drugs (see WARNINGS ). III. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program's Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Vasospastic Angina Nifedipine capsules, USP (nifedipine) is indicated for the management of vasospastic angina confirmed by any of the following criteria: 1) classical pattern of angina at rest accompanied by ST segment elevation, 2) angina or coronary artery spasm provoked by ergonovine, or 3) angiographically demonstrated coronary artery spasm. Nifedipine capsules, USP may also be used where the clinical presentation suggests a possible vasospastic component but where vasospasm has not been confirmed, e.g., where pain has a variable threshold on exertion or when angina is refractory to nitrates and/or adequate doses of beta-blockers. Chronic Stable Angina (Classical Effort-Associated Angina) Nifedipine capsules, USP is indicated for the management of chronic stable angina (effort-associated angina) without evidence of vasospasm in patients who remain symptomatic despite adequate doses of beta-blockers and/or organic nitrates or who cannot tolerate those agents. In chronic stable angina (effort-associated angina), nifedipine capsules, USP has been effective in controlled trials of up to eight weeks duration in reducing angina frequency and increasing exercise tolerance, but confirmation of sustained effectiveness and evaluation of long-term safety in these patients are incomplete. Controlled studies in small numbers of patients suggest concomitant use of nifedipine capsules, USP and beta-blocking agents may be beneficial in patients with chronic stable angina, but available information is not sufficient to predict with confidence the effects of concurrent treatment, especially in patients with compromised left ventricular function or cardiac conduction abnormalities. When introducing such concomitant therapy, care must be taken to monitor blood pressure closely since severe hypotension can occur from the combined effects of the drugs. (See WARNINGS ). Vasospastic Angina Nifedipine capsules, USP (nifedipine) is indicated for the management of vasospastic angina confirmed by any of the following criteria: 1) classical pattern of angina at rest accompanied by ST segment elevation, 2) angina or coronary artery spasm provoked by ergonovine, or 3) angiographically demonstrated coronary artery spasm. When introducing such concomitant therapy, care must be taken to monitor blood pressure closely, since severe hypotension can occur from the combined effects of the drugs (see WARNINGS). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nifedipine extended-release tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension.
Dosage: DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Dosage must be adjusted according to each patient’s needs. Therapy for either hypertension or angina should be initiated with 30 or 60 mg once daily. Nifedipine Extended-Release Tablets USP should be swallowed whole and should not be bitten or divided. In general, titration should proceed over a 7 to 14 day period so that the physician can fully assess the response to each dose level and monitor blood pressure before proceeding to higher doses. Since steady-state plasma levels are achieved on the second day of dosing, titration may proceed more rapidly, if symptoms so warrant, provided the patient is assessed frequently. Titration to doses above 120 mg are not recommended. Angina patients controlled on nifedipine capsules alone or in combination with other antianginal medications may be safely switched to nifedipine extended-release tablets at the nearest equivalent total daily dose (e.g., 30 mg t.i.d. of nifedipine capsules may be changed to 90 mg once daily of nifedipine extended-release tablets). Subsequent titration to higher or lower doses may be necessary and should be initiated as clinically warranted. Experience with doses greater than 90 mg in patients with angina is limited. Therefore, doses greater than 90 mg should be used with caution and only when clinically warranted. Avoid coadministration of nifedipine with grapefruit juice (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and PRECAUTIONS: Other Interactions ). No “rebound effect” has been observed upon discontinuation of nifedipine extended-release tablets. However, if discontinuation of nifedipine is necessary, sound clinical practice suggests that the dosage should be decreased gradually with close physician supervision. Care should be taken when dispensing nifedipine extended-release tablets to assure that the extended release dosage form has been prescribed. Coadministration with Other Antianginal Drugs Sublingual nitroglycerin may be taken as required for the control of acute manifestations of angina, particularly during nifedipine titration. See PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions , for information on coadministration of nifedipine with beta blockers or long-acting nitrates. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage must be adjusted according to each patient's needs. Nifedipine Extended-release Tablets should be swallowed whole and should not be bitten or divided. In general, titration should proceed over a 7-14 day period so that the physician can fully assess the response to each dose level and monitor blood pressure before proceeding to higher doses. Avoid co-administration of nifedipine with grapefruit juice (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and PRECAUTIONS : Other Interactions) . No "rebound effect" has been observed upon discontinuation of Nifedipine Extended-release Tablets. See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , for information on coadministration of nifedipine with beta-blockers or long-acting nitrates. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be adjusted according to each patient’s needs. It is recommended that nifedipine extended-release tablet be administered orally once daily on an empty stomach. Nifedipine extended-release tablet is an extended-release dosage form and tablets should be swallowed whole, not bitten or divided. In general, titration should proceed over a 7-14 day period starting with 30 mg once daily. Upward titration should be based on therapeutic efficacy and safety. The usual maintenance dose is 30 mg to 60 mg once daily. Titration to doses above 90 mg daily is not recommended. If discontinuation of nifedipine extended-release tablets is necessary, sound clinical practice suggests that the dosage should be decreased gradually with close physician supervision. Co-administration of nifedipine with grapefruit juice is to be avoided (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and PRECAUTIONS ). Care should be taken when dispensing nifedipine extended-release tablets to assure that the extended-release dosage form has been prescribed. In general, titration should proceed over a 7–14 day period so that the physician can fully assess the response to each dose level and monitor blood pressure before proceeding to higher doses. Avoid co-administration of nifedipine with grapefruit juice (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and PRECAUTIONS : Other Interactions ). Co-Administration with Other Antianginal Drugs Sublingual nitroglycerin may be taken as required for the control of acute manifestations of angina, particularly during nifedipine titration. See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , for information on co-administration of nifedipine with beta blockers or long-acting nitrates. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of nifedipine needed to suppress angina and that can be tolerated by the patient must be established by titration. Excessive doses can result in hypotension. Therapy should be initiated with the 10 mg capsule. The starting dose is one 10 mg capsule, swallowed whole, 3 times/day. The usual effective dose range is 10 to 20 mg three times daily. Some patients, especially those with evidence of coronary artery spasm, respond only to higher doses, more frequent administration, or both. In such patients, doses of 20 to 30 mg three or four times daily may be effective. Doses above 120 mg daily are rarely necessary. More than 180 mg per day is not recommended. In most cases, nifedipine titration should proceed over a 7 to 14 day period so that the physician can assess the response to each dose level and monitor the blood pressure before proceeding to higher doses. If symptoms so warrant, titration may proceed more rapidly provided that the patient is assessed frequently. Based on the patient’s physical activity level, attack frequency, and sublingual nitroglycerin consumption, the dose of nifedipine may be increased from 10 mg t.i.d. to 20 mg t.i.d. and then to 30 mg t.i.d. over a three-day period. In hospitalized patients under close observation, the dose may be increased in 10 mg increments over four- to six-hour periods as required to control pain and arrhythmias due to ischemia. A single dose should rarely exceed 30 mg. Avoid co-administration of nifedipine with grapefruit juice (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and PRECAUTIONS: Other Interactions ). No “rebound effect” has been observed upon discontinuation of nifedipine. See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , for information on co-administration of nifedipine with beta-blockers or long-acting nitrates. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage must be adjusted according to each patient’s needs. Nifedipine extended-release tablets, USP should be swallowed whole and should not be bitten or divided. Angina patients controlled on nifedipine capsules alone or in combination with other antianginal medications may be safely switched to nifedipine extended-release tablets, USP at the nearest equivalent total daily dose (e.g., 30 mg t.i.d. of nifedipine capsules may be changed to 90 mg once daily of nifedipine extended-release tablets, USP). Avoid co-administration of nifedipine with grapefruit juice (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and PRECAUTIONS: Other Interactions). No “rebound effect” has been observed upon discontinuation of nifedipine extended-release tablets, USP. Care should be taken when dispensing nifedipine extended-release tablets, USP to assure that the extended release dosage form has been prescribed. See PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions, for information on co-administration of nifedipine with beta blockers or long-acting nitrates. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be adjusted according to each patient's needs. It is recommended that nifedipine extended-release tablets, USP be administered orally once daily on an empty stomach. The nifedipine extended-release tablet, USP is an extended release dosage form and tablets should be swallowed whole, not bitten or divided. If discontinuation of the nifedipine extended-release tablet is necessary, sound clinical practice suggests that the dosage should be decreased gradually with close physician supervision.
Warnings: WARNINGS Excessive Hypotension Although in most angina patients the hypotensive effect of nifedipine is modest and well tolerated, occasional patients have had excessive and poorly tolerated hypotension. These responses have usually occurred during initial titration or at the time of subsequent upward dosage adjustment, and may be more likely in patients on concomitant beta blockers. Severe hypotension and/or increased fluid volume requirements have been reported in patients receiving nifedipine together with a beta-blocking agent who underwent coronary artery bypass surgery using high dose fentanyl anesthesia. The interaction with high dose fentanyl appears to be due to the combination of nifedipine and a beta blocker, but the possibility that it may occur with nifedipine alone, with low doses of fentanyl, in other surgical procedures, or with other narcotic analgesics cannot be ruled out. In nifedipine-treated patients where surgery using high dose fentanyl anesthesia is contemplated, the physician should be aware of these potential problems and, if the patient’s condition permits, sufficient time (at least 36 hours) should be allowed for nifedipine to be washed out of the body prior to surgery. The following information should be taken into account in those patients who are being treated for hypertension as well as angina: Increased Angina and/or Myocardial Infarction Rarely, patients, particularly those who have severe obstructive coronary artery disease, have developed well documented increased frequency, duration and/or severity of angina or acute myocardial infarction on starting nifedipine or at the time of dosage increase. The mechanism of this effect is not established. Beta Blocker Withdrawal It is important to taper beta blockers if possible, rather than stopping them abruptly before beginning nifedipine. Patients recently withdrawn from beta blockers may develop a withdrawal syndrome with increased angina, probably related to increased sensitivity to catecholamines. Initiation of nifedipine treatment will not prevent this occurrence and on occasion has been reported to increase it. Congestive Heart Failure Rarely, patients, usually receiving a beta blocker, have developed heart failure after beginning nifedipine. Patients with tight aortic stenosis may be at greater risk for such an event, as the unloading effect of nifedipine would be expected to be of less benefit, owing to the fixed impedance to flow across the aortic valve in these patients. Gastrointestinal Obstruction Requiring Surgery There have been rare reports of obstructive symptoms in patients with known strictures in association with the ingestion of nifedipine extended-release tablets. Bezoars can occur in very rare cases and may require surgical intervention. Cases of serious gastrointestinal obstruction have been identified in patients with no known gastrointestinal disease, including the need for hospitalization and surgical intervention. Risk factors for a gastrointestinal obstruction identified from post-marketing reports of nifedipine extended-release tablets (GITS tablet formulation) include alteration in gastrointestinal anatomy (e.g., severe gastrointestinal narrowing, colon cancer, small bowel obstruction, bowel resection, gastric bypass, vertical banded gastroplasty, colostomy, diverticulitis, diverticulosis, and inflammatory bowel disease), hypomotility disorders (e.g., constipation, gastroesophageal reflux disease, ileus, obesity, hypothyroidism, and diabetes) and concomitant medications (e.g., H2-histamine blockers, opiates, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, laxatives, anticholinergic agents, levothyroxine, and neuromuscular blocking agents). Gastrointestinal Ulcers Cases of tablet adherence to the gastrointestinal wall with ulceration have been reported, some requiring hospitalization and intervention. These responses have usually occurred during initial titration or at the time of subsequent upward dosage adjustment, and may be more likely in patients on concomitant beta-blockers. The interaction with high dose fentanyl appears to be due to the combination of nifedipine and a beta-blocker, but the possibility that it may occur with nifedipine alone, with low doses of fentanyl, in other surgical procedures, or with other narcotic analgesics cannot be ruled out. In nifedipine-treated patients where surgery using high dose fentanyl anesthesia is contemplated, the physician should be aware of these potential problems and if the patient's condition permits, sufficient time (at least 36 hours) should be allowed for nifedipine to be washed out of the body prior to surgery. Beta-Blocker Withdrawal It is important to taper beta-blockers if possible, rather than stopping them abruptly before beginning nifedipine. Patients recently withdrawn from beta-blockers may develop a withdrawal syndrome with increased angina, probably related to increased sensitivity to catecholamines. Congestive Heart Failure Rarely, patients, usually receiving a beta-blocker, have developed heart failure after beginning nifedipine. Patients with tight aortic stenosis may be at greater risk for such an event, as the unloading effect of nifedipine would be expected to be of less benefit to those patients, owing to their fixed impedance to flow across the aortic valve in these patients. Gastointestinal Obstruction Requiring Surgery There have been rare reports of obstructive symptoms in patients with known strictures in association with the ingestion of Nifedipine Extended-release Tablets. Risk factors for a gastrointestinal obstruction identified from post-marketing reports of Nifedipine Extended-release Tablets include alteration in gastrointestinal anatomy (e.g., severe gastrointestinal narrowing, colon cancer, small bowel obstruction, bowel resection, gastric bypass, vertical banded gastroplasty, colostomy, diverticulitis, diverticulosis, and inflammatory bowel disease), hypomotility disorders (e.g., constipation, gastroesophageal reflux disease, ileus, obesity, hypothyroidism, and diabetes) and concomitant medications (e.g., H2-histamine blockers, opiates, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, laxatives, anticholinergic agents, levothyroxine, and neuromuscular blocking agents). WARNINGS Excessive Hypotension Although in most patients the hypotensive effect of nifedipine is modest and well tolerated, occasional patients have had excessive and poorly tolerated hypotension. These responses have usually occurred during initial titration or at the time of subsequent upward dosage adjustment, and may be more likely in patients using concomitant beta-blockers. Severe hypotension and/or increased fluid volume requirements have been reported in patients who received immediate-release capsules together with a beta-blocking agent and who underwent coronary artery bypass surgery using high-dose fentanyl anesthesia. The interaction with high-dose fentanyl appears to be due to the combination of nifedipine and a beta-blocker, but the possibility that it may occur with nifedipine alone, with low doses of fentanyl, in other surgical procedures, or with other narcotic analgesics cannot be ruled out. In nifedipine-treated patients where surgery using high-dose fentanyl anesthesia is contemplated, the physician should be aware of these potential problems and, if the patient’s condition permits, sufficient time (at least 36 hours) should be allowed for nifedipine to be washed out of the body prior to surgery. Increased Angina and/or Myocardial Infarction Rarely, patients, particularly those who have severe obstructive coronary artery disease, have developed well-documented increased frequency, duration and/or severity of angina or acute myocardial infarction upon starting nifedipine or at the time of dosage increase. Beta-Blocker Withdrawal When discontinuing a beta-blocker it is important to taper its dose, if possible, rather than stopping abruptly before beginning nifedipine. Congestive Heart Failure Rarely, patients (usually while receiving a beta-blocker) have developed heart failure after beginning nifedipine. Patients with tight aortic stenosis may be at greater risk for such an event, as the unloading effect of nifedipine would be expected to be of less benefit to these patients, owing to their fixed impedance to flow across the aortic valve. In nifedipine-treated patients where surgery using high dose fentanyl anesthesia is contemplated, the physician should be aware of these potential problems and, if the patient's condition permits, sufficient time (at least 36 hours) should be allowed for nifedipine to be washed out of the body prior to surgery. Risk factors for a gastrointestinal obstruction identified from post-marketing reports of nifedipine extended-release tablets include alteration in gastrointestinal anatomy (e.g., severe gastrointestinal narrowing, colon cancer, small bowel obstruction, bowel resection, gastric bypass, vertical banded gastroplasty, colostomy, diverticulitis, diverticulosis, and inflammatory bowel disease), hypomotility disorders (e.g., constipation, gastroesophageal reflux disease, ileus, obesity, hypothyroidism, and diabetes) and concomitant medications (e.g., H 2 -histamine blockers, opiates, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, laxatives, anticholinergic agents, levothyroxine, and neuromuscular blocking agents). WARNINGS Excessive Hypotension Although, in most patients, the hypotensive effect of nifedipine is modest and well tolerated, occasional patients have had excessive and poorly tolerated hypotension. These responses have usually occurred during initial titration or at the time of subsequent upward dosage adjustment. Although patients have rarely experienced excessive hypotension on nifedipine alone, this may be more common in patients on concomitant beta-blocker therapy. Although not approved for this purpose, nifedipine capsules and other immediate-release nifedipine capsules have been used (orally and sublingually) for acute reduction of blood pressure. Several well-documented reports describe cases of profound hypotension, myocardial infarction, and death when immediate-release nifedipine was used in this way. Nifedipine capsules should not be used for the acute reduction of blood pressure. In nifedipine treated patients where surgery using high dose fentanyl anesthesia is contemplated, the physician should be aware of these potential problems and, if the patient’s condition permits, sufficient time (at least 36 hours) should be allowed for nifedipine to be washed out of the body prior to surgery. Increased Angina and/or Myocardial Infarction Rarely, patients, particularly those who have severe obstructive coronary artery disease, have developed well documented increased frequency, duration, and/or severity of angina or acute myocardial infarction on starting nifedipine or at the time of dosage increase. Several well-controlled, randomized trials studied the use of immediate-release nifedipine in patients who had just sustained myocardial infarctions. In none of these trials did immediaterelease nifedipine appear to provide any benefit. In some of the trials, patients who received immediate-release nifedipine had significantly worse outcomes than patients who received placebo. Nifedipine capsules should not be administered within the first week or two after myocardial infarction and they should also be avoided in the setting of acute coronary syndrome (when infarction may be imminent). Use in Essential Hypertension Nifedipine capsules 10 mg and other immediate-release nifedipine capsules have also been used for the long-term control of essential hypertension, although nifedipine capsules have not been approved for this purpose and no properly controlled studies have been conducted to define an appropriate dose or dose interval for such treatment. Nifedipine capsules should not be used for the control of essential hypertension. Beta-Blocker Withdrawal Patients recently withdrawn from beta-blockers may develop a withdrawal syndrome with increased angina, probably related to increased sensitivity to catecholamines. Initiation of nifedipine treatment will not prevent this occurrence and might be expected to exacerbate it by provoking reflex catecholamine release. There have been occasional reports of increased angina in a setting of beta-blocker withdrawal and nifedipine initiation. It is important to taper beta-blockers if possible, rather than stopping them abruptly before beginning nifedipine. Congestive Heart Failure Rarely, patients, usually those receiving a beta-blocker, have developed heart failure after beginning nifedipine. Excessive Hypotension Although, in most patients, the hypotensive effect of nifedipine is modest and well tolerated, occasional patients have had excessive and poorly tolerated hypotension. Severe hypotension and/or increased fluid volume requirements have been reported in patients who received immediate release capsules together with a beta-blocking agent and who underwent coronary artery bypass surgery using high dose fentanyl anesthesia.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity reaction to nifedipine. CONTRAINDICATIONS Concomitant administration with strong P450 inducers, such as rifampin, are contraindicated since the efficacy of nifedipine tablets could be significantly reduced. (See PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions. ) Nifedipine must not be used in cases of cardiogenic shock. Nifedipine extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any component of the tablet. (See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Nifedipine is mainly eliminated by metabolism and is a substrate of CYP3A. Inhibitors and inducers of CYP3A can impact the exposure to nifedipine and consequently its desirable and undesirable effects. In vitro and in vivo data indicate that nifedipine can inhibit the metabolism of drugs that are substrates of CYP3A, thereby increasing the exposure to other drugs. Nifedipine is a vasodilator, and co-administration of other drugs affecting blood pressure may result in pharmacodynamic interactions. CYP3A Inhibitors CYP3A inhibitors such as ketoconazole, fluconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin, erythromycin (Azithromycin, although structurally related to the class of macrolide antibiotic is void of clinically relevant CYP3A4 inhibition), grapefruit, nefazodone, fluoxetine, saquinavir, indinavir, nelfinavir, and ritonavir may result in increased exposure to nifedipine when co-administered. Careful monitoring and dose adjustment may be necessary; consider initiating nifedipine at the lowest dose available if given concomitantly with these medications. Strong CYP3A Inducers Strong CYP3A inducers, such as rifampin, rifabutin, phenobarbital, phenytoin, carbamazepine, and St. John’s Wort reduce the bioavailability and efficacy of nifedipine; therefore nifedipine should not be used in combination with strong CYP3A inducers such as rifampin (See CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Cardiovascular Drugs Antiarrhythmics Quinidine: Quinidine is a substrate of CYP3A and has been shown to inhibit CYP3A in vitro . Co-administration of multiple doses of quinidine sulfate, 200 mg t.i.d., and nifedipine, 20 mg t.i.d., increased C max and AUC of nifedipine in healthy volunteers by factors of 2.30 and 1.37, respectively. The heart rate in the initial interval after drug administration was increased by up to 17.9 beats/minute. The exposure to quinidine was not importantly changed in the presence of nifedipine. Monitoring of heart rate and adjustment of the nifedipine dose, if necessary, are recommended when quinidine is added to a treatment with nifedipine. Flecainide: There has been too little experience with the co-administration of Tambocor with nifedipine to recommend concomitant use. Calcium Channel Blockers Diltiazem: Pre-treatment of healthy volunteers with 30 mg or 90 mg t.i.d. diltiazem p.o. increased the AUC of nifedipine after a single dose of 20 mg nifedipine by factors of 2.2 and 3.1, respectively. The corresponding C max values of nifedipine increased by factors of 2.0 and 1.7, respectively. Caution should be exercised when co-administering diltiazem and nifedipine and a reduction of the dose of nifedipine should be considered. Verapamil: Verapamil, a CYP3A inhibitor, can inhibit the metabolism of nifedipine and increase the exposure to nifedipine during concomitant therapy. Blood pressure should be monitored and reduction of the dose of nifedipine considered. ACE Inhibitors Benazepril: In healthy volunteers receiving single dose of 20 mg nifedipine ER and benazepril 10 mg, the plasma concentrations of benazeprilat and nifedipine in the presence and absence of each other were not statistically significantly different. A hypotensive effect was only seen after co-administration of the two drugs. The tachycardic effect of nifedipine was attenuated in the presence of benazepril. Angiotensin-II Blockers Irbesartan: In vitro studies show significant inhibition of the formation of oxidized irbesartan metabolites by nifedipine. However, in clinical studies, concomitant nifedipine had no effect on irbesartan pharmacokinetics. Candesartan: No significant drug interaction has been reported in studies with candesartan cilexitil given together with nifedipine. Because candesartan is not significantly metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system and at therapeutic concentrations has no effect on cytochrome P450 enzymes, interactions with drugs that inhibit or are metabolized by those enzymes would not be expected. Beta-Blockers Nifedipine extended-release tablet was well tolerated when administered in combination with beta-blockers in 187 hypertensive patients in a placebo-controlled clinical trial. However, there have been occasional literature reports suggesting that the combination nifedipine and beta-adrenergic blocking drugs may increase the likelihood of congestive heart failure, severe hypotension or exacerbation of angina in patients with cardiovascular disease. Clinical monitoring is recommended and a dose adjustment of nifedipine should be considered. Timolol: Hypotension is more likely to occur if dihydropryridine calcium antagonists such as nifedipine are co-administered with timolol. Central Alpha1-Blockers Doxazosin: Healthy volunteers participating in a multiple dose doxazosin-nifedipine interaction study received 2 mg doxazosin q.d. alone or combined with 20 mg nifedipine ER b.i.d. Co-administration of nifedipine resulted in a decrease in AUC and C max of doxazosin to 83% and 86% of the values in the absence of nifedipine, respectively. In the presence of doxazosin, AUC and C max of nifedipine were increased by factors of 1.13 and 1.23, respectively. Compared to nifedipine monotherapy, blood pressure was lower in the presence of doxazosin. Blood pressure should be monitored when doxazosin is co-administered with nifedipine, and dose reduction of nifedipine considered. Digitalis Digoxin: The simultaneous administration of nifedipine and digoxin may lead to reduced clearance resulting in an increase in plasma concentrations of digoxin. Since there have been isolated reports of patients with elevated digoxin levels, and there is a possible interaction between digoxin and nifedipine extended-release tablet, it is recommended that digoxin levels be monitored when initiating, adjusting and discontinuing nifedipine extended-release tablet to avoid possible over- or under-digitalization. Antithrombotics Coumarins: There have been rare reports of increased prothrombin time in patients taking coumarin anticoagulants to whom nifedipine was administered. However the relationship to nifedipine therapy is uncertain. Platelet Aggregation Inhibitors Clopidogrel: No clinically significant pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when clopidogrel was co-administered with nifedipine. Tirofiban: Co-administration of nifedipine did not alter the exposure to tirofiban importantly. Other Diuretics, PDE5 inhibitors, alpha-methyldopa: Nifedipine may increase the blood pressure lowering effect of these concomitantly administered agents. Drug Interactions: Beta-adrenergic blocking agents: (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE and WARNINGS .) Experience in over 1400 patients with nifedipine capsules in a noncomparative clinical trial has shown that concomitant administration of nifedipine and beta-blocking agents is usually well tolerated, but there have been occasional literature reports suggesting that the combination may increase the likelihood of congestive heart failure, severe hypotension, or exacerbation of angina. Long-acting Nitrates: Nifedipine may be safely co-administered with nitrates, but there have been no controlled studies to evaluate the antianginal effectiveness of this combination. Digitalis: Administration of nifedipine with digoxin increased digoxin levels in nine of twelve normal volunteers. The average increase was 45%. Another investigator found no increase in digoxin levels in thirteen patients with coronary artery disease. In an uncontrolled study of over two hundred patients with congestive heart failure during which digoxin blood levels were not measured, digitalis toxicity was not observed. Since there have been isolated reports of patients with elevated digoxin levels, it is recommended that digoxin levels be monitored when initiating, adjusting, and discontinuing nifedipine to avoid possible over- or under-digitalization. Coumarin Anticoagulants: There have been rare reports of increased prothrombin time in patients taking coumarin anticoagulants to whom nifedipine was administered. However, the relationship to nifedipine therapy is uncertain. Cimetidine: A study in six healthy volunteers has shown a significant increase in peak nifedipine plasma levels (80%) and area-under-the-curve (74%), after a one week course of cimetidine at 1000 mg per day and nifedipine at 40 mg per day. Ranitidine produced smaller, non-significant increases. The effect may be mediated by the known inhibition of cimetidine on hepatic cytochrome P-450, the enzyme system probably responsible for the first-pass metabolism of nifedipine. If nifedipine therapy is initiated in a patient currently receiving cimetidine, cautious titration is advised. Nifedipine is metabolized by CYP3A4. Co-administration of nifedipine with phenytoin, an inducer of CYP3A4, lowers the systemic exposure to nifedipine by approximately 70%. Avoid co-administration of nifedipine with phenytoin or any known CYP3A4 inducer or consider an alternative antihypertensive therapy. CYP3A inhibitors such as fluconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin, erythromycin, nefazodone, fluoxetine, saquinavir, indinavir, and nelfinavir may result in increased exposure to nifedipine when co-administered. Drug Interactions Beta-adrenergic blocking agents: (See INDICATIONS AND USAGE and WARNINGS ). Experience in over 1400 patients in a non-comparative clinical trial has shown that concomitant administration of nifedipine and beta-blocking agents is usually well tolerated, but there have been occasional literature reports suggesting that the combination may increase the likelihood of congestive heart failure, severe hypotension or exacerbation of angina. Digitalis: Since there have been isolated reports of patients with elevated digoxin levels, and there is a possible interaction between digoxin and nifedipine, it is recommended that digoxin levels be monitored when initiating, adjusting, and discontinuing nifedipine to avoid possible over- or under-digitalization. Quinidine: There have been rare reports of an interaction between quinidine and nifedipine (with a decreased plasma level of quinidine). Cimetidine: A study in six healthy volunteers has shown a significant increase in peak nifedipine plasma levels (80%) and area-under-the-curve (74%) after a one week course of cimetidine at 1000 mg per day and nifedipine at 40 mg per day. Drug Interactions Beta-adrenergic blocking agents: (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE and WARNINGS.) Experience in over 1400 patients with nifedipine capsules in a noncomparative clinical trial has shown that concomitant administration of nifedipine and beta-blocking agents is usually well tolerated, but there have been occasional literature reports suggesting that the combination may increase the likelihood of congestive heart failure, severe hypotension, or exacerbation of angina. Since there have been isolated reports of patients with elevated digoxin levels, it is recommended that digoxin levels be monitored when initiating, adjusting, and discontinuing nifedipine to avoid possible over-or under-digitalization. Other Interactions Grapefruit Juice: Co-administration of nifedipine with grapefruit juice resulted in approximately a doubling in nifedipine AUC and Cmax with no change in half-life. The increased plasma concentrations most likely result from inhibition of CYP 3A4 related first-pass metabolism. Avoid ingestion of grapefruit and grapefruit juice should be avoided while taking nifedipine. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility: Nifedipine was administered orally to rats for two years and was not shown to be carcinogenic. When given to rats prior to mating, nifedipine caused reduced fertility at a dose approximately 5 times the maximum recommended human dose. There is a literature report of reversible reduction in the ability of human sperm obtained from a limited number of infertile men taking recommended doses of nifedipine to bind to and fertilize an ovum in vitro. In vivo mutagenicity studies were negative. John's Wort reduce the bioavailability and efficacy of nifedipine; therefore nifedipine should not be used in combination with strong CYP3A inducers such as rifampin (See CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Beta-blockers Nifedipine extended-release tablets were well tolerated when administered in combination with beta-blockers in 187 hypertensive patients in a placebo-controlled clinical trial. Since there have been isolated reports of patients with elevated digoxin levels, and there is a possible interaction between digoxin and nifedipine extended-release tablets, it is recommended that digoxin levels be monitored when initiating, adjusting and discontinuing nifedipine extended-release tablets, to avoid possible over- or under- digitalization. Platelet Aggregation Inhibitors Clopidogrel: No clinically significant pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when clopidrogrel was co-administered with nifedipine. Other Diuretics, PDE5 inhibitors, alpha-methyldopa : Nifedipine may increase the blood pressure lowering effect of these concomitantly administered agents. Non-Cardiovascular Drugs Antifungal Drugs Ketoconazole, itraconazole and fluconazole are CYP3A inhibitors and can inhibit the metabolism of nifedipine and increase the exposure to nifedipine during concomitant therapy. Blood pressure should be monitored and a dose reduction of nifedipine considered. Antisecretory Drugs Omeprazole: In healthy volunteers receiving a single dose of 10 mg nifedipine, AUC and C max of nifedipine after pretreatment with omeprazole 20 mg q.d. for 8 days were 1.26 and 0.87 times those after pre-treatment with placebo. Pretreatment with or co-administration of omeprazole did not impact the effect of nifedipine on blood pressure or heart rate. The impact of omeprazole on nifedipine is not likely to be of clinical relevance. Pantoprazole: In healthy volunteers the exposure to neither drug was changed significantly in the presence of the other drug. Ranitidine: Five studies in healthy volunteers investigated the impact of multiple ranitidine doses on the single or multiple dose pharmacokinetics of nifedipine. Two studies investigated the impact of co-administered ranitidine on blood pressure in hypertensive subjects on nifedipine. Co-administration of ranitidine did not have relevant effects on the exposure to nifedipine that affected the blood pressure or heart rate in normotensive or hypertensive subjects. Cimetidine: Five studies in healthy volunteers investigated the impact of multiple cimetidine doses on the single or multiple dose pharmacokinetics of nifedipine. Two studies investigated the impact of co-administered cimetidine on blood pressure in hypertensive subjects on nifedipine. In normotensive subjects receiving single doses of 10 mg or multiple doses of up to 20 mg nifedipine t.i.d. alone or together with cimetidine up to 1000 mg/day, the AUC values of nifedipine in the presence of cimetidine were between 1.52 and 2.01 times those in the absence of cimetidine. The C max values of nifedipine in the presence of cimetidine were increased by factors ranging between 1.60 and 2.02. The increase in exposure to nifedipine by cimetidine was accompanied by relevant changes in blood pressure or heart rate in normotensive subjects. Hypertensive subjects receiving 10 mg q.d. nifedipine alone or in combination with cimetidine 1000 mg q.d. also experienced relevant changes in blood pressure when cimetidine was added to nifedipine. The interaction between cimetidine and nifedipine is of clinical relevance and blood pressure should be monitored and a reduction of the dose of nifedipine considered. Cisapride: Simultaneous administration of cisapride and nifedipine may lead to increased plasma concentrations of nifedipine. Antibacterial Drugs Quinupristin/Dalfopristin: In vitro drug interaction studies have demonstrated that quinupristin/dalfopristin significantly inhibits the CYP3A metabolism of nifedipine. Concomitant administration of quinupristin/dalfopristin and nifedipine (repeated oral dose) in healthy volunteers increased AUC and C max for nifedipine by factors of 1.44 and 1.18, respectively, compared to nifedipine monotherapy. Upon co-administration of quinupristin/dalfopristin with nifedipine, blood pressure should be monitored and a reduction of the dose of nifedipine considered. Erythromycin: Erythromycin, a CYP3A inhibitor, can inhibit the metabolism of nifedipine and increase the exposure to nifedipine during concomitant therapy. Antitubercular Drugs Rifampin: Strong CYP3A inducers, such as rifampin, rifapentin, and rifabutin reduce the bioavailability of nifedipine which may reduce the efficacy of nifedipine; therefore nifedipine should not be used in combination with strong CYP3A inducers such as rifampin (See CONTRAINDICATIONS ). The impact of multiple oral doses of 600 mg rifampin on the pharmacokinetics of nifedipine after a single oral dose of 20 mg nifedipine capsule was evaluated in a clinical study. Twelve healthy male volunteers received a single oral dose of 20 mg nifedipine capsule on study Day 1. Starting on study Day 2, the subjects received 600 mg rifampin once daily for 14 days. On study Day 15, a second single oral dose of 20 mg nifedipine capsule was administered together with the last dose of rifampin. Compared to study Day 1, 14 days pretreatment with rifampin reduced C max and AUC of concomitantly administered nifedipine on average by 95% and 97%, respectively. Antiviral Drugs Amprenavir, atanazavir, delavirine, fosamprinavir, indinavir, nelfinavir and ritonavir , as CYP3A inhibitors, can inhibit the metabolism of nifedipine and increase the exposure to nifedipine. Caution is warranted and clinical monitoring of patients recommended. CNS Drugs Nefazodone , a CYP3A inhibitor, can inhibit the metabolism of nifedipine and increase the exposure to nifedipine during concomitant therapy. Blood pressure should be monitored and a reduction of the dose of nifedipine considered. Fluoxetine , a CYP3A inhibitor, can inhibit the metabolism of nifedipine and increase the exposure to nifedipine during concomitant therapy. Valproic acid may increase the exposure to nifedipine during concomitant therapy. Phenytoin, Phenobarbital, and Carbamazepine: Nifedipine is metabolized by CYP3A. Co-administration of nifedipine 10 mg capsule and 60 mg nifedipine coat-core tablet with phenytoin, an inducer of CYP3A, lowered the AUC and C max of nifedipine by approximately 70%. Phenobarbital and carbamazepine are also inducers of CYP3A. Alternative antihypertensive therapy should be considered in patients taking phenytoin, phenobarbital, and carbamazepine. Antiemetic Drugs Dolasetron: In patients taking dolasetron by the oral or intravenous route and nifedipine, no effect was shown on the clearance of hydrodolasetron. Immunosuppressive Drugs Tacrolimus: Tacrolimus has been shown to be metabolized via the CYP3A system. Nifedipine has been shown to inhibit the metabolism of tacrolimus in vitro . Transplant patients on tacrolimus and nifedipine required from 26% to 38% smaller doses than patients not receiving nifedipine. Nifedipine can increase the exposure to tacrolimus. When nifedipine is co-administered with tacrolimus the blood concentrations of tacrolimus should be monitored and a reduction of the dose of tacrolimus considered. Sirolimus: A single 60 mg dose of nifedipine and a single 10 mg dose of sirolimus oral solution were administered to 24 healthy volunteers. Clinically significant pharmacokinetic drug interactions were not observed. Glucose Lowering Drugs Pioglitazone: Co-administration of pioglitazone for 7 days with 30 mg nifedipine ER administered orally q.d. for 4 days to male and female volunteers resulted in least square mean (90% CI) values for unchanged nifedipine of 0.83 (0.73-0.95) for C max and 0.88 (0.80-0.96) for AUC relative to nifedipine monotherapy. In view of the high variability of nifedipine pharmacokinetics, the clinical significance of this finding is unknown. Rosiglitazone: Co-administration of rosiglitazone (4 mg b.i.d.) was shown to have no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of nifedipine. Metformin: A single dose metformin-nifedipine interaction study in normal healthy volunteers demonstrated that co-administration of nifedipine increased plasma metformin C max and AUC by 20% and 9%, respectively, and increased the amount of metformin excreted in urine. T max and half-life were unaffected. Nifedipine appears to enhance the absorption of metformin. Miglitol: No effect of miglitol was observed on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of nifedipine. Repaglinide: Co-administration of 10 mg nifedipine with a single dose of 2 mg repaglinide (after 4 days nifedipine 10 mg t.i.d. and repaglinide 2 mg t.i.d.) resulted in unchanged AUC and C max values for both drugs. Acarbose: Nifedipine tends to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glucose control. If nifedipine is co-administered with acarbose, blood glucose levels should be monitored carefully and a dose adjustment of nifedipine considered. Drugs Interfering with Food Absorption Orlistat: In 17 normal-weight subjects receiving orlistat 120 mg t.i.d. for 6 days, orlistat did not alter the bioavailability of 60 mg nifedipine (extended release tablets). Dietary Supplements Grapefruit Juice: In healthy volunteers, a single dose co-administration of 250 mL double strength grapefruit juice with 10 mg nifedipine increased AUC and C max by factors of 1.35 and 1.13, respectively. Ingestion of repeated doses of grapefruit juice (5 x 200 mL in 12 hours) after administration of 20 mg nifedipine ER increased AUC and C max of nifedipine by a factor of 2. Grapefruit juice should be avoided by patients on nifedipine. The intake of grapefruit juice should be stopped at least 3 days prior to initiating patients on nifedipine. Herbals St. John's Wort : St. John's Wort is an inducer of CYP3A and may decrease exposure to nifedipine. Alternative antihypertensive therapy should be considered in patients in whom St. John's Wort therapy is necessary. CYP2D6 Probe Drug Debrisoquine: In healthy volunteers, pretreatment with nifedipine 20 mg t.i.d. for 5 days did not change the metabolic ratio of hydroxydebrisoquine to debrisoquine measured in urine after a single dose of 10 mg debrisoquine. Thus, it is improbable that nifedipine inhibits in vivo the metabolism of other drugs that are substrates of CYP2D6.

=== WITCH HAZEL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Astringent Purposes Vasoconstrictor Astringent Purpose Acne treatment
Indications: Use for relief of minor skin irritations due to: insects bites minor cuts monor scrapes Use for relief of minor skin irritations due to: insect bites minor cuts minor scrapes Uses helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids temporary relief of irritation and burning temporarily shrinks hemorrhoidal tissue aids in protecting irritated anorectal areas Uses Relieves minor skin irritation due to: insect bites minor cuts minor scrapes Uses: Relieves minor skin irritation due to: insect bites minor cuts minor scrapes Indications For relief of minor skin Irritations due to minor cuts minor scraps insect bites Uses provides temporary relief of local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids temporary relief of irritation and burning. aids in protecting irritated anorectal areas. Uses • for the treatment of acne • clears acne blemishes and allows skin to heal • helps prevent the development of new acne blemishes Uses helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemmorhoids temporary relief of irritation and burning aids in protecting irritated anorectal areas
Dosage: Directions apply as often as needed Directions adults: when practical, cleanse the affected area by patting or blotting with an appropriate cleansing wipe. Gently dry by patting or blotting with a tissue or a soft cloth before applying gel. when first opening the tube, peel off the foil seal apply externally to the affected area up to 4 times daily, especially at night, in the morning or after each bowel movement children under 12 years of age: ask a doctor Directions apply as often as necessary to apply to face, moisten cotton ball or cleansing pad and gently wipe skin Directions After cleansing apply generously to cotton ball and gently wipe skin. Apply as often as needed. Directions Apply liberally to the afflicted area as often as necessary Directions adults: cleane the affected area with mild soap and warm water, and rinse thoroughly gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue prior to applying. apply externally to the affected area up to 6 times daily or after each bowel movement dispose of pad in thrash after use and wash hands, do not flush children under 12 years of age: consult a doctor Directions clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily because excessive drying of the skin may occur, start with one application daily, then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs, reduce application to once a day or every other day Directions Adults unfold wipe and cleanse the area by gently wiping, patting or blotting. If necessary, repeat until all matter is removed from the area. use upto 6 times daily or after each bowel movement and before applying hemorrhoidal treatments and then discard. children under 12 years of age consult a doctor flush or dispose of wipe in trash for best results flush no more than one wipe at a time
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease high blood pressure thyroid disease diabetes difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug for high blood pressure or depression. When using this product do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if bleeding occurs condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Warnings For external use only. Avoid spraying in eyes. Contents under pressure. Do not puncture or incinerate. Do not store at temperature above 120°F. Keep out of the reach of children. Use only as directed. Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal. When using this product avoid contact with the eyes. If contact occurs rinse thoroughly with water. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms persist for more than 7 days Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only avoid contact with eyes If contact occurs rinse thoroughly with water. When using this product do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor do not put directly in the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator. Stop use and ask a doctor if bleeding occurs condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222).

=== CARBAMAZEPINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Epilepsy Carbamazepine is indicated for use as an anticonvulsant drug. Evidence supporting efficacy of carbamazepine as an anticonvulsant was derived from active drug-controlled studies that enrolled patients with the following seizure types: 1. Partial seizures with complex symptomatology (psychomotor, temporal lobe). Patients with these seizures appear to show greater improvement than those with other types. 2. Generalized tonic-clonic seizures (grand mal). 3. Mixed seizure patterns which include the above, or other partial or generalized seizures. Absence seizures (petit mal) do not appear to be controlled by carbamazepine (see PRECAUTIONS , General). Trigeminal Neuralgia Carbamazepine is indicated in the treatment of the pain associated with true trigeminal neuralgia. Beneficial results have also been reported in glossopharyngeal neuralgia. This drug is not a simple analgesic and should not be used for the relief of trivial aches or pains. Evidence supporting efficacy of carbamazepine as an anticonvulsant was derived from active drug-controlled studies that enrolled patients with the following seizure types: Partial seizures with complex symptomatology (psychomotor, temporal lobe). Absence seizures (petit mal) do not appear to be controlled by carbamazepine (see PRECAUTIONS, General ). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Epilepsy Carbamazepine extended-release capsules are indicated for use as an anticonvulsant drug. Patients with these seizures appear to show greater improvements than those with other types. Trigeminal Neuralgia Carbamazepine extended-release capsules are indicated in the treatment of the pain associated with true trigeminal neuralgia. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Epilepsy Carbamazepine tablets are indicated for use as an anticonvulsant drug. Absence seizures (petit mal) do not appear to be controlled by carbamazepine ( see PRECAUTIONS , General ). Trigeminal Neuralgia Carbamazepine tablets are indicated in the treatment of the pain associated with true trigeminal neuralgia. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Epilepsy Carbamazepine extended-release tablet is indicated for use as an anticonvulsant drug. Evidence supporting efficacy of carbamazepine extended-release tablet as an anticonvulsant was derived from active drug-controlled studies that enrolled patients with the following seizure types: Partial seizures with complex symptomatology (psychomotor, temporal lobe). Absence seizures (petit mal) do not appear to be controlled by carbamazepine extended-release tablets (see PRECAUTIONS, General). Trigeminal Neuralgia Carbamazepine extended-release tablet is indicated in the treatment of the pain associated with true trigeminal neuralgia. Absence seizures (petit mal) do not appear to be controlled by carbamazepine (see PRECAUTIONS , General ).
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (SEE TABLE BELOW) Carbamazepine suspension in combination with liquid chlorpromazine or thioridazine results in precipitate formation, and, in the case of chlorpromazine, there has been a report of patient passing an orange rubbery precipitate in the stool following coadministration of the two drugs (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions). Because the extent to which this occurs with other liquid medications is not known, Carbamazepine suspension should not be administered simultaneously with other liquid medications or diluents. Monitoring of blood levels has increased the efficacy and safety of anticonvulsants (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests). Dosage should be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient. A low initial daily dosage with a gradual increase is advised. As soon as adequate control is achieved, the dosage may be reduced very gradually to the minimum effective level. Medication should be taken with meals. Since a given dose of Carbamazepine suspension will produce higher peak levels than the same dose given as the tablet, it is recommended to start with low doses (children 6 to 12 years: ½ teaspoon four times a day and to increase slowly to avoid unwanted side effects. Conversion of patients from oral Carbamazepine tablets to Carbamazepine suspension: Patients should be converted by administering the same number of mg per day in smaller, more frequent doses (i.e., twice a day tablets to three times a day suspension). Tegretol-XR is an extended-release formulation for twice a day administration. When converting patients from Carbamazepine conventional tablets to Tegretol-XR, the same total daily mg dose of Tegretol-XR should be administered. Tegretol-XR tablets must be swallowed whole and never crushed or chewed. Tegretol-XR tablets should be inspected for chips or cracks. Damaged tablets, or tablets without a release portal, should not be consumed. Tegretol-XR tablet coating is not absorbed and is excreted in the feces; these coatings may be noticeable in the stool. Epilepsy (SEE INDICATIONS AND USAGE) Adults and children over 12 years of age-Initial : Either 200 mg twice a day for tablets and XR tablets, or 1 teaspoon four times a day for suspension (400 mg/day). Increase at weekly intervals by adding up to 200 mg/day using a twice a day regimen of Tegretol-XR or a three times a day or four times a day regimen of the other formulations until the optimal response is obtained. Dosage generally should not exceed 1000 mg daily in children 12 to 15 years of age, and 1200 mg daily in patients above 15 years of age. Doses up to 1600 mg daily have been used in adults in rare instances. Maintenance : Adjust dosage to the minimum effective level, usually 800 to 1200 mg daily. Children 6 to 12 years of age-Initial : Either 100 mg twice a day for tablets or XR tablets, or ½ teaspoon four times a day for suspension (200 mg/day). Increase at weekly intervals by adding up to 100 mg/day using a twice a day regimen of Tegretol-XR or a three times a day or four times a day regimen of the other formulations until the optimal response is obtained.. Dosage generally should not exceed 1000 mg daily. Maintenance : Adjust dosage to the minimum effective level, usually 400 to 800 mg daily. Children under 6 years of age-Initial : 10 to 20 mg/kg/day twice a day or three times a day as tablets, or four times a day as suspension . Increase weekly to achieve optimal clinical response administered three times a day or four times a day. Maintenance : Ordinarily, optimal clinical response is achieved at daily doses below 35 mg/kg. If satisfactory clinical response has not been achieved, plasma levels should be measured to determine whether or not they are in the therapeutic range. No recommendation regarding the safety of carbamazepine for use at doses above 35 mg/kg/24 hours can be made. Combination Therapy : Carbamazepine may be used alone or with other anticonvulsants. When added to existing anticonvulsant therapy, the drug should be added gradually while the other anticonvulsants are maintained or gradually decreased, except phenytoin, which may have to be increased (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions, and Pregnancy). Trigeminal Neuralgia (SEE INDICATIONS AND USAGE) Initial : On the first day, either 100 mg twice a day for tablets or XR tablets or ½ teaspoon four times a day for suspension, for a total daily dose of 200 mg. This daily dose may be increased by up to 200 mg/day using increments of 100 mg every 12 hours for tablets or XR tablets, or 50 mg (½ teaspoon) four times a day for suspension, only as needed to achieve freedom from pain. Do not exceed 1200 mg daily. Maintenance : Control of pain can be maintained in most patients with 400 to 800 mg daily. However, some patients may be maintained on as little as 200 mg daily, while others may require as much as 1200 mg daily. At least once every 3 months throughout the treatment period, attempts should be made to reduce the dose to the minimum effective level or even to discontinue the drug. Dosage Information Initial Dose Subsequent Dose MaximumDaily Dose Indication Tablet* XR † Suspension Tablet* XR † Suspension Tablet* XR † Suspension Epilepsy Under 6 yr 10-20 mg/kg/day twice a day or 3 times of day 10-20 mg/kg/day 4 times a day Increase weekly to achieve optimal clinical response, 3 times a day or 4 times a day Increase weekly to achieve optimal clinical response, 3 times a day or 4 times a day 35mg/kg/24hr (see Dosage and Administration section above) 35 mg/kg/24 hr (see Dosage and Administration section above) 6-12 yr 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day) 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day) ½ tsp 4 times a day (200 mg/day) Add up to 100 mg/day at weekly intervals 3 times a day or 4 times a day Add 100 mg/day at weekly intervals, twice a day Add up to 1 tsp (100 mg)/day at weekly intervals, 3 times a day or 4 times a day 1000mg/24 hr Over 12 yr 200 mg twice a day(400 mg/day) 200 mg twice a day (400 mg/day) 1 tsp 4 times a day (400 mg/day) Add up to 200 mg/day at weekly intervals, 3 times a day or 4 times a day Add up to 200 mg/day at weekly intervals, twice a day Add up to 2 tsp (200 mg)/day at weekly intervals, 3 times a day or 4 times a day 1000 mg/24 hr (12-15 yr) 1200 mg/24 hr (>15 yr) 1600 mg/24 hr (adults, in rare instances) Trigeminal Neuralgia 100 mg twice a day(200 mg/day) 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day) ½ tsp 4 times a day (200 mg/day) Add up to 200 mg/day in increments of 100 mg every 12 hr Add up to 200 mg/day in increments of 100 mg every 12 hr Add up to 2 tsp (200 mg)/day in increments of 50 mg (½ tsp) 4 times a day 1200mg/24 hr * Tablet = conventional tablets † XR = Tegretol-XR extended-release tablets DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (SEE TABLE BELOW) Carbamazepine suspension in combination with liquid chlorpromazine or thioridazine results in precipitate formation, and, in the case of chlorpromazine, there has been a report of a patient passing an orange rubbery precipitate in the stool following coadministration of the two drugs (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Monitoring of blood levels has increased the efficacy and safety of anticonvulsants (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests ). Since a given dose of carbamazepine suspension will produce higher peak levels than the same dose given as the tablet, it is recommended to start with low doses (children 6 to 12 years: ½ teaspoon (four times a day) and to increase slowly to avoid unwanted side effects. Carbamazepine extended-release tablets is an extended-release formulation for twice-a-day administration. When converting patients from carbamazepine conventional tablets to carbamazepine extended-release tablets, the same total daily mg dose of carbamazepine extended-release tablets should be administered. Carbamazepine extended-release tablets must be swallowed whole and never crushed or chewed. Carbamazepine extended-release tablets should be inspected for chips or cracks. Damaged tablets should not be consumed. Epilepsy (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) Adults and children over 12 years of age-Initial Either 200 mg twice a day for tablets and extended-release tablets, or 1 teaspoon four times a day for suspension (400 mg/day). Increase at weekly intervals by adding up to 200 mg/day using a twice a day regimen of carbamazepine extended-release tablets or a three times a day or four times a day regimen of the other formulations until the optimal response is obtained. Maintenance Adjust dosage to the minimum effective level, usually 800 to 1200 mg daily. Children 6 to 12 years of age-Initial Either 100 mg twice a day for tablets or extended-release tablets, or ½ teaspoon four times a day for suspension (200 mg/day). Increase at weekly intervals by adding up to 100 mg/day using a twice a day regimen of carbamazepine extended-release tablets or a three times a day or four times a day regimen of the other formulations until the optimal response is obtained. Maintenance Adjust dosage to the minimum effective level, usually 400 to 800 mg daily. Children under 6 years of age-Initial 10 mg/kg/day to 20 mg/kg/day twice a day or three times a day as tablets, or four times a day as suspension. Increase weekly to achieve optimal clinical response administered three times a day or four times a day Maintenance Ordinarily, optimal clinical response is achieved at daily doses below 35 mg/kg. Combination Therapy Carbamazepine may be used alone or with other anticonvulsants. When added to existing anticonvulsant therapy, the drug should be added gradually while the other anticonvulsants are maintained or gradually decreased, except phenytoin, which may have to be increased (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions , and Pregnancy ). Trigeminal Neuralgia (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) Initial On the first day, either 100 mg twice a day for tablets or extended-release tablets, or ½ teaspoon four times a day for suspension, for a total daily dose of 200 mg. This daily dose may be increased by up to 200 mg/day using increments of 100 mg every 12 hours for tablets or extended-release tablets, or 50 mg (½ teaspoon) four times a day for suspension, only as needed to achieve freedom from pain. Maintenance Control of pain can be maintained in most patients with 400 to 800 mg daily. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Monitoring of blood levels has increased the efficacy and safety of anticonvulsants (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests ). Dosage should be adjusted to the needs of the individual patients. A low initial daily dosage with gradual increase is advised. Carbamazepine extended-release capsules may be taken with or without food. Carbamazepine extended-release capsules may be swallowed whole or may be opened and all the beads sprinkled on a teaspoon of soft food such as applesauce. Make sure all of the food and medicine mixture is swallowed. Do not crush or chew carbamazepine extended-release capsules or the sprinkled beads. Carbamazepine extended-release capsule is an extended-release formulation for twice a day administration. When converting patients from immediate release carbamazepine to carbamazepine extended-release capsules, the same total daily mg dose of carbamazepine should be administered. Following conversion to carbamazepine, patients should be closely monitored for seizure control. Depending on the therapeutic response after conversion, the total daily dose may need to be adjusted within the recommended dosing instructions. Epilepsy (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) Adults and children over 12 years of age. Initial: 200 mg twice daily. Increase at weekly intervals by adding up to 200 mg/day until the optimal response is obtained. Dosage generally should not exceed 1,000 mg per day in children 12 to 15 years of age, and 1,200 mg daily in patients above 15 years of age. Doses up to 1,600 mg daily have been used in adults. Maintenance: Adjust dosage to the minimum effective level, usually 800 to 1,200 mg daily. Children under 12 years of age: Children taking total daily dosages of immediate-release carbamazepine of 400 mg or greater may be converted to the same total daily dosage of carbamazepine extended-release capsules, using a twice daily regimen. Ordinarily, optimal clinical response is achieved at daily doses below 35 mg/kg. No recommendation regarding the safety of carbamazepine extended-release capsules for use at doses above 35 mg/kg/24 hours can be made. Combination Therapy: Carbamazepine extended-release capsules may be used alone or with other anticonvulsants. When added to existing anticonvulsant therapy, the drug should be added gradually while the other anticonvulsants are maintained or gradually decreased, except phenytoin, which may have to be increased (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Trigeminal Neuralgia (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) Initial: On the first day, start with one 200 mg capsule. This daily dose may be increased by up to 200 mg/day every 12 hours only as needed to achieve freedom from pain. Do not exceed 1,200 mg daily. Maintenance: Control of pain can be maintained in most patients with 400 to 800 mg daily. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (SEE TABLE BELOW) Monitoring of blood levels has increased the efficacy and safety of anticonvulsants ( see PRECAUTIONS , Laboratory Tests ). Epilepsy (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE) Adults and children over 12 years of age -Initial: 200 mg twice a day for tablets (400 mg/day). Increase at weekly intervals by adding up to 200 mg/day using a three times a day or four times a day regimen of carbamazepine tablets until the optimal response is obtained. Children 6 to 12 years of age -Initial: 100 mg twice a day for tablets (200 mg/day). Increase at weekly intervals by adding up to 100 mg/day using a three times a day or four times a day regimen of carbamazepine tablets until the optimal response is obtained. Children under 6 years of age -Initial: 10 to 20 mg/kg/day twice a day or three times a day as tablets. Combination Therapy: Carbamazepine may be used alone or with other anticonvulsants. When added to existing anticonvulsant therapy, the drug should be added gradually while the other anticonvulsants are maintained or gradually decreased, except phenytoin, which may have to be increased ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , and Pregnancy ). Trigeminal Neuralgia (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE) Initial: On the first day, 100 mg twice a day for tablets for a total daily dose of 200 mg. This daily dose may be increased by up to 200 mg/day using increments of 100 mg every 12 hours for tablets, only as needed to achieve freedom from pain. Dosage Information for Tablets Indication Initial Dose Subsequent Dose Maximum Daily Dose Epilepsy Under 6 yr 10-20 mg/kg/day twice a day or 3 times a day Increase weekly to achieve optimal clinical response, 3 times a day or 4 times a day 35 mg/kg/24 hr ( see Dosage and Administration section above) 6-12 yr 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day) Add up to 100 mg/day at weekly intervals, 3 times a day or 4 times a day 1000 mg/24 hr Over 12 yr 200 mg twice a day (400 mg/day) Add up to 200 mg/day at weekly intervals, 3 times a day or 4 times a day 1000 mg/24 hr (12-15 yr) 1200 mg/24 hr (>15 yr) 1600 mg/24 hr (adults, in rare instances) Trigeminal Neuralgia 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day) Add up to 200 mg/day in increments of 100 mg every 12 hr 1200 mg/24 hr DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (SEE TABLE BELOW) Monitoring of blood levels has increased the efficacy and safety of anticonvulsants (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests ). Epilepsy (SEE INDICATIONS AND USAGE ): Adults and children over 12 years of age - Initial: 200 mg twice a day for tablets (400 mg/day). Dosage generally should not exceed 1,000 mg daily in children 12 to 15 years of age, and 1,200 mg daily in patients above 15 years of age. Doses up to 1,600 mg daily have been used in adults in rare instances. Children 6 to 12 years of age - Initial: 100 mg twice a day for tablets (200 mg/day). Dosage generally should not exceed 1,000 mg daily. Maintenance: Adjust dosage to the minimum effective level, usually 400 to 800 mg daily. Children under 6 years of age - Initial: 10 to 20 mg/kg/day twice a day or three times a day as tablets. Increase weekly to achieve optimal clinical response administered three times a day or four times a day Maintenance: Ordinarily, optimal clinical response is achieved at daily doses below 35 mg/kg. Trigeminal Neuralgia (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ): Initial: On the first day, 100 mg twice a day for tablets for a total daily dose of 200 mg. However, some patients may be maintained on as little as 200 mg daily, while others may require as much as 1,200 mg daily. Dosage Information for Tablets Indication Initial Dose Subsequent Dose Maximum Daily Dose Epilepsy Under 6 yr 10 to 20 mg/kg/day twice a day or 3 times a day Increase weekly to achieve optimal clinical response, 3 times a day or 4 times a day 35 mg/kg/24 hr (see Dosage and Administration section above) 6 to 12 yr 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day) Add up to 100 mg/day at weekly intervals, 3 times a day or 4 times a day 1,000 mg/24 hr Over 12 yr 200 mg twice a day (400 mg/day) Add up to 200 mg/day at weekly intervals, 3 times a day or 4 times a day 1,000 mg/24 hr (12 to 15 yr) 1,200 mg/24 hr (>15 yr) 1,600 mg /24 hr (adults, in rare instances) Trigeminal Neuralgia 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day) Add up to 200 mg/day in increments of 100 mg every 12 hr 1,200 mg/24 hr DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (SEE TABLE BELOW) Monitoring of blood levels has increased the efficacy and safety of anticonvulsants (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests). Carbamazepine extended-release tablet is an extended-release formulation for twice a day administration. When converting patients from Tegretol conventional tablets to carbamazepine extended-release tablets, the same total daily mg dose of carbamazepine extended-release tablets should be administered. Carbamazepine extended-release tablet coating is not absorbed and is excreted in the feces; these coatings may be noticeable in the stool. Epilepsy ( SEE INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) Adults and children over 12 years of age-Initial: 200 mg twice a day for carbamazepine extended-release tablets. Increase at weekly intervals by adding up to 200 mg/day using a twice a day regimen of carbamazepine extended-release tablets until the optimal response is obtained. Maintenance: Adjust dosage to the minimum effective level, usually 800 to 1200 mg daily. Children 6 to 12 years of age-Initial : 100 mg twice a day for carbamazepine extended-release tablets. Increase at weekly intervals by adding up to 100 mg/day using a twice a day regimen of carbamazepine extended-release tablets until the optimal response is obtained. Combination Therapy: Carbamazepine extended-release tablets may be used alone or with other anticonvulsants. Trigeminal Neuralgia (SEE INDICATIONS AND USAGE) Initial: On the first day, 100 mg twice a day for carbamazepine extended-release tablets for a total daily dose of 200 mg. This daily dose may be increased by up to 200 mg/day using increments of 100 mg every 12 hours for carbamazepine extended-release tablets only as needed to achieve freedom from pain. Dosage Information Initial Dose Subsequent Dose Maximum Daily Dose Indication Extended- Release Tablets † Extended- Release Tablets † Extended- Release Tablets † Epilepsy 6 to 12 yr 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day) Add 100 mg/day at weekly intervals, twice a day 1000 mg/24 hr Over 12 yr 200 mg twice a day (400 mg/day) Add up to 200 mg/day at weekly intervals, twice a day 1000 mg/24 hr (12 to 15 yr) 1200 mg/24 hr (> 15 yr) 1600 mg/24 hr (adults, in rare instances) Trigeminal Neuralgia 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day) Add up to 200 mg/day in increments of 100 mg every 12 hr 1200 mg/24 hr † Extended-release tablet = Carbamazepine extended-release tablets DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (SEE TABLE BELOW) Tegretol suspension in combination with liquid chlorpromazine or thioridazine results in precipitate formation, and, in the case of chlorpromazine, there has been a report of a patient passing an orange rubbery precipitate in the stool following coadministration of the two drugs (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Because the extent to which this occurs with other liquid medications is not known, Tegretol suspension should not be administered simultaneously with other liquid medications or diluents. Monitoring of blood levels has increased the efficacy and safety of anticonvulsants (see PRECAUTIONS , Laboratory Tests ). Since a given dose of Tegretol suspension will produce higher peak levels than the same dose given as the tablet, it is recommended to start with low doses (children 6 to 12 years: ½ teaspoon four times a "day" and to increase slowly to avoid unwanted side effects. Conversion of patients from oral Tegretol tablets to Tegretol suspension: Patients should be converted by administering the same number of mg per day in smaller, more frequent doses (i.e., twice a day tablets to three times a day suspension). Carbamazepine extended-release tablets are an extended-release formulation for twice a day administration. Epilepsy (SEE INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) Adults and children over 12 years of age-Initial: Either 200 mg twice a day for tablets and extended-release tablets, or 1 teaspoon four times a day for suspension (400 mg/day). Children 6 to 12 years of age-Initial: Either 100 mg twice a day for tablets or extended-release tablets, or ½ teaspoon four times a day for suspension (200 mg/day). Children under 6 years of age-Initial: 10 to 20 mg/kg/day twice a day or three times a day as tablets, or four times a day as suspension. Maintenance: Ordinarily, optimal clinical response is achieved at daily doses below 35 mg/kg. When added to existing anticonvulsant therapy, the drug should be added gradually while the other anticonvulsants are maintained or gradually decreased, except phenytoin, which may have to be increased (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , and Pregnancy). Trigeminal Neuralgia (SEE INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) Initial: On the first day, either 100 mg twice a day for tablets, or extended-release tablets or ½ teaspoon four times a day for suspension, for a total daily dose of 200 mg. Dosage Information Initial Dose Subsequent Dose Maximum Daily Dose Indication Tablet* Extended-release Tablets† Suspension Tablet* Extended-release Tablets† Suspension Tablet* Extended-release Tablets† Suspension Epilepsy Under 6 yr 10-20 mg/kg/day twice a day or 3 times of day 10-20 mg/kg/day 4 times a day Increase weekly to achieve optimal clinical response, 3 times a day or 4 times a day Increase weekly to achieve optimal clinical response, 3 times a day or 4 times a day 35 mg/ kg/24 hr (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION above) 35 mg/kg/ 24 hr (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION above) 6-12 yr 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day) 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day) ½ tsp 4 times a day (200 mg/day) Add up to 100 mg/day at weekly "intervals" 3 times a day or 4 times a day Add 100 mg/day at weekly intervals, twice a day Add up to 1 tsp (100 mg)/day at weekly intervals, 3 times a day or 4 times a day 1000 mg/24 hr Over 12 yr 200 mg twice a day (400 mg/day) 200 mg twice a day (400 mg/day) 1 tsp 4 times a day (400 mg/day) Add up to 200 mg/day at weekly intervals, 3 times a day or 4 times a day Add up to 200 mg/day at weekly intervals, twice a day Add up to 2 tsp (200 mg)/day at weekly intervals, 3 times a day or 4 times a day 1000 mg/24 hr (12-15 yr) 1200 mg/24 hr (>15 yr) 1600 mg/24 hr (adults, in rare instances) Trigeminal Neuralgia 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day) 100 mg twice a day (200 mg/day) ½ tsp 4 times a day (200 mg/day) Add up to 200 mg/day in increments of 100 mg every 12 hr Add up to 200 mg/day in increments of 100 mg every 12 hr Add up to 2 tsp (200 mg)/day in increments of 50 mg (½ tsp) 4 times a day 1200 mg/ 24 hr *Tablet = Chewable or conventional tablets †Extended-release tablets = Carbamazepine extended-release tablets
Warnings: WARNINGS Serious Dermatologic Reactions Serious and sometimes fatal dermatologic reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) and Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), have been reported with carbamazepine treatment. The risk of these events is estimated to be about 1 to 6 per 10,000 new users in countries with mainly Caucasian populations. However, the risk in some Asian countries is estimated to be about 10 times higher. Carbamazepine should be discontinued at the first sign of a rash, unless the rash is clearly not drug-related. If signs or symptoms suggest SJS/TEN, use of this drug should not be resumed and alternative therapy should be considered. SJS/TEN and HLA-B*1502 Allele Retrospective case-control studies have found that in patients of Chinese ancestry there is a strong association between the risk of developing SJS/TEN with carbamazepine treatment and the presence of an inherited variant of the HLA-B gene, HLA-B*1502. The occurrence of higher rates of these reactions in countries with higher frequencies of this allele suggests that the risk may be increased in allele-positive individuals of any ethnicity. Across Asian populations, notable variation exists in the prevalence of HLA-B*1502. Greater than 15% of the population is reported positive in Hong Kong, Thailand, Malaysia, and parts of the Philippines, compared to about 10% in Taiwan and 4% in North China. South Asians, including Indians, appear to have intermediate prevalence of HLA-B*1502, averaging 2% to 4%, but higher in some groups. HLA-B*1502 is present in less than 1% of the population in Japan and Korea. HLA-B*1502 is largely absent in individuals not of Asian origin (e.g., Caucasians, African-Americans, Hispanics, and Native Americans). Prior to initiating carbamazepine therapy, testing for HLA-B*1502 should be performed in patients with ancestry in populations in which HLA-B*1502 may be present. In deciding which patients to screen, the rates provided above for the prevalence of HLA-B*1502 may offer a rough guide, keeping in mind the limitations of these figures due to wide variability in rates even within ethnic groups, the difficulty in ascertaining ethnic ancestry, and the likelihood of mixed ancestry. Carbamazepine should not be used in patients positive for HLA-B*1502 unless the benefits clearly outweigh the risks. Tested patients who are found to be negative for the allele are thought to have a low risk of SJS/TEN (see BOXED WARNING and PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests ). Over 90% of carbamazepine treated patients who will experience SJS/TEN have this reaction within the first few months of treatment. This information may be taken into consideration in determining the need for screening of genetically at-risk patients currently on carbamazepine. The HLA-B*1502 allele has not been found to predict risk of less severe adverse cutaneous reactions from carbamazepine such as maculopapular eruption (MPE) or to predict Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS). Limited evidence suggests that HLA-B*1502 may be a risk factor for the development of SJS/TEN in patients of Chinese ancestry taking other antiepileptic drugs associated with SJS/TEN, including phenytoin. Consideration should be given to avoiding use of other drugs associated with SJS/TEN in HLA-B*1502 positive patients, when alternative therapies are otherwise equally acceptable. Hypersensitivity Reactions and HLA-A*3101 Allele Retrospective case-control studies in patients of European, Korean, and Japanese ancestry have found a moderate association between the risk of developing hypersensitivity reactions and the presence of HLA-A*3101, an inherited allelic variant of the HLA-A gene, in patients using carbamazepine. These hypersensitivity reactions include SJS/TEN, maculopapular eruptions, and Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (see DRESS/Multiorgan hypersensitivity below). HLA-A*3101 is expected to be carried by more than 15% of patients of Japanese, Native American, Southern Indian (for example, Tamil Nadu) and some Arabic ancestry; up to about 10% in patients of Han Chinese, Korean, European, Latin American, and other Indian ancestry; and up to about 5% in African-Americans and patients of Thai, Taiwanese, and Chinese (Hong Kong) ancestry. The risks and benefits of carbamazepine therapy should be weighed before considering carbamazepine in patients known to be positive for HLA-A*3101. Application of HLA genotyping as a screening tool has important limitations and must never substitute for appropriate clinical vigilance and patient management. Many HLA-B*1502-positive and HLA-A*3101-positive patients treated with carbamazepine will not develop SJS/TEN or other hypersensitivity reactions, and these reactions can still occur infrequently in HLA-B*1502-negative and HLA-A*3101-negative patients of any ethnicity. The role of other possible factors in the development of, and morbidity from, SJS/TEN and other hypersensitivity reactions, such as antiepileptic drug (AED) dose, compliance, concomitant medications, comorbidities, and the level of dermatologic monitoring, have not been studied. Aplastic Anemia and Agranulocytosis Aplastic anemia and agranulocytosis have been reported in association with the use of carbamazepine (see BOXED WARNING ). Patients with a history of adverse hematologic reaction to any drug may be particularly at risk of bone marrow depression. Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)/Multiorgan Hypersensitivity Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), also known as multiorgan hypersensitivity, have occurred with carbamazepine. Some of these events have been fatal or life-threatening. DRESS typically, although not exclusively, presents with fever, rash, lymphadenopathy, and/or facial swelling, in association with other organ system involvement, such as hepatitis, nephritis, hematologic abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis sometimes resembling an acute viral infection. Eosinophilia is often present. This disorder is variable in its expression, and other organ systems not noted here may be involved. It is important to note that early manifestations of hypersensitivity (e.g., fever, lymphadenopathy) may be present even though rash is not evident. If such signs or symptoms are present, the patient should be evaluated immediately. Carbamazepine should be discontinued if an alternative etiology for the signs or symptoms cannot be established. Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity reactions to carbamazepine have been reported in patients who previously experienced this reaction to anticonvulsants including phenytoin, primidone, and phenobarbital. If such history is present, benefits and risks should be carefully considered and, if carbamazepine is initiated, the signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity should be carefully monitored. Patients should be informed that about a third of patients who have had hypersensitivity reactions to carbamazepine also experience hypersensitivity reactions with oxcarbazepine (Trileptal ® ). Anaphylaxis and Angioedema Rare cases of anaphylaxis and angioedema involving the larynx, glottis, lips, and eyelids have been reported in patients after taking the first or subsequent doses of carbamazepine. Angioedema associated with laryngeal edema can be fatal. If a patient develops any of these reactions after treatment with carbamazepine, the drug should be discontinued and an alternative treatment started. These patients should not be rechallenged with the drug. Propylene Glycol Toxicity Carbamazepine oral suspension contains propylene glycol (see DESCRIPTION). Patients less than 5 years of age are at highest risk for propylene glycol toxicity, and a safe level for propylene glycol exposure with repeated administration has not been established for this age group. Particularly, neonates i.e., less than 4 weeks of age (including full-term babies and preterm babies less than 44 post-menstrual weeks of age) are known to have immature metabolic and renal clearance of propylene glycol. Therefore, carbamazepine oral suspension should only be used in neonates after careful risk-benefit assessment if no therapeutic alternatives are available. When carbamazepine oral suspension is administered at the maximum dose (35 mg/kg/day) for treatment of epilepsy, the exposure to propylene glycol will be 88 mg/kg/day. The total daily intake of propylene glycol from all sources, including concomitant drugs, should be considered in managing the risk of propylene glycol toxicity. Monitor patients for signs of potential propylene glycol toxicity, including hemolysis, hyperosmolarity with anion gap metabolic acidosis, acute kidney injury, and central nervous system (CNS) toxicity. Discontinue carbamazepine oral suspension if propylene glycol toxicity is suspected (see DESCRIPTION). Suicidal Behavior and Ideation Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), including carbamazepine, increase the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior in patients taking these drugs for any indication. Patients treated with any AED for any indication should be monitored for the emergence or worsening of depression, suicidal thoughts or behavior, and/or any unusual changes in mood or behavior. Pooled analyses of 199 placebo-controlled clinical trials (mono- and adjunctive therapy) of 11 different AEDs showed that patients randomized to one of the AEDs had approximately twice the risk (adjusted Relative Risk 1.8, 95% CI:1.2, 2.7) of suicidal thinking or behavior compared to patients randomized to placebo. In these trials, which had a median treatment duration of 12 weeks, the estimated incidence rate of suicidal behavior or ideation among 27,863 AED-treated patients was 0.43%, compared to 0.24% among 16,029 placebo-treated patients, representing an increase of approximately one case of suicidal thinking or behavior for every 530 patients treated. There were four suicides in drug-treated patients in the trials and none in placebo-treated patients, but the number is too small to allow any conclusion about drug effect on suicide. The increased risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior with AEDs was observed as early as one week after starting drug treatment with AEDs and persisted for the duration of treatment assessed. Because most trials included in the analysis did not extend beyond 24 weeks, the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior beyond 24 weeks could not be assessed. The risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior was generally consistent among drugs in the data analyzed. The finding of increased risk with AEDs of varying mechanisms of action and across a range of indications suggests that the risk applies to all AEDs used for any indication. The risk did not vary substantially by age (5 to 100 years) in the clinical trials analyzed. Table 1 shows absolute and relative risk by indication for all evaluated AEDs. Table 1 Risk by Indication for Antiepileptic Drugs in the Pooled Analysis Indication Placebo patients with events per 1,000 patients Drug patients with events per 1,000 patients Relative risk: incidence of events in drug patients/incidence in placebo patients Risk difference: additional drug patients with events per 1,000 patients Epilepsy 1 3.4 3.5 2.4 Psychiatric 5.7 8.5 1.5 2.9 Other 1 1.8 1.9 0.9 Total 2.4 4.3 1.8 1.9 The relative risk for suicidal thoughts or behavior was higher in clinical trials for epilepsy than in clinical trials for psychiatric or other conditions, but the absolute risk differences were similar for the epilepsy and psychiatric indications. Anyone considering prescribing carbamazepine or any other AED must balance the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior with the risk of untreated illness. Epilepsy and many other illnesses for which AEDs are prescribed are themselves associated with morbidity and mortality and an increased risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior. Should suicidal thoughts and behavior emerge during treatment, the prescriber needs to consider whether the emergence of these symptoms in any given patient may be related to the illness being treated. General Carbamazepine has shown mild anticholinergic activity that may be associated with increased intraocular pressure; therefore, patients with increased intraocular pressure should be closely observed during therapy. Because of the relationship of the drug to other tricyclic compounds, the possibility of activation of a latent psychosis and, in elderly patients, of confusion or agitation should be borne in mind. The use of carbamazepine should be avoided in patients with a history of hepatic porphyria (e.g., acute intermittent porphyria, variegate porphyria, porphyria cutanea tarda). Acute attacks have been reported in such patients receiving carbamazepine therapy. Carbamazepine administration has also been demonstrated to increase porphyrin precursors in rodents, a presumed mechanism for the induction of acute attacks of porphyria. As with all antiepileptic drugs, carbamazepine should be withdrawn gradually to minimize the potential of increased seizure frequency. Hyponatremia can occur as a result of treatment with carbamazepine. In many cases, the hyponatremia appears to be caused by the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). The risk of developing SIADH with carbamazepine treatment appears to be dose-related. Elderly patients and patients treated with diuretics are at greater risk of developing hyponatremia. Signs and symptoms of hyponatremia include headache, new or increased seizure frequency, difficulty concentrating, memory impairment, confusion, weakness, and unsteadiness, which can lead to falls. Consider discontinuing carbamazepine in patients with symptomatic hyponatremia. Usage in Pregnancy Carbamazepine can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Epidemiological data suggest that there may be an association between the use of carbamazepine during pregnancy and congenital malformations, including spina bifida. There have also been reports that associate carbamazepine with developmental disorders and congenital anomalies (e.g., craniofacial defects, cardiovascular malformations, and anomalies involving various body systems). Developmental delays based on neurobehavioral assessments have been reported. When treating or counseling women of childbearing potential, the prescribing physician will wish to weigh the benefits of therapy against the risks. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Retrospective case reviews suggest that, compared with monotherapy, there may be a higher prevalence of teratogenic effects associated with the use of anticonvulsants in combination therapy. Therefore, if therapy is to be continued, monotherapy may be preferable for pregnant women. In humans, transplacental passage of carbamazepine is rapid (30 to 60 minutes), and the drug is accumulated in the fetal tissues, with higher levels found in liver and kidney than in brain and lung. Carbamazepine has been shown to have adverse effects in reproduction studies in rats when given orally in dosages 10 to 25 times the maximum human daily dosage (MHDD) of 1200 mg on a mg/kg basis or 1.5 to 4 times the MHDD on a mg/m 2 basis. In rat teratology studies, 2 of 135 offspring showed kinked ribs at 250 mg/kg and 4 of 119 offspring at 650 mg/kg showed other anomalies (cleft palate, 1; talipes, 1; anophthalmos, 2). In reproduction studies in rats, nursing offspring demonstrated a lack of weight gain and an unkempt appearance at a maternal dosage level of 200 mg/kg. There have been a few cases of neonatal seizures and/or respiratory depression associated with maternal carbamazepine and other concomitant anticonvulsant drug use. A few cases of neonatal vomiting, diarrhea, and/or decreased feeding have also been reported in association with maternal carbamazepine use. These symptoms may represent a neonatal withdrawal syndrome. To provide information regarding the effects of in utero exposure to carbamazepine, physicians are advised to recommend that pregnant patients taking carbamazepine enroll in the North American Antiepileptic Drug (NAAED) Pregnancy Registry. This can be done by calling the toll free number 1-888-233-2334, and must be done by patients themselves. Information on the registry can also be found at the website http://www.aedpregnancyregistry.org/. Clinical Considerations Disease-associated Maternal and/or Embryofetal Risk Epilepsy, with or without exposure to antiepileptic drugs, has been associated with several adverse outcomes during pregnancy, including preeclampsia, preterm labor, antepartum and postpartum hemorrhage, placental abruption, poor fetal growth, prematurity, fetal death, and maternal mortality. The risk of maternal or fetal injury may be greatest for patients with untreated or poorly controlled convulsive seizures. Women with epilepsy who become pregnant should not abruptly discontinue antiepileptic drugs, including carbamazepine, due to the risk of status epilepticus or severe seizures, which may be life-threatening. Carbamazepine extended-release capsules should be discontinued at the first sign of a rash, unless the rash is clearly not drug-related. South Asians, including Indians, appear to have intermediate prevalence of HLA-B*1502, averaging 2 to 4%, but higher in some groups. HLA-B*1502 is present in <1% of the population in Japan and Korea. Prior to initiating carbamazepine extended-release capsules therapy, testing for HLA-B*1502 should be performed in patients with ancestry in populations in which HLA-B*1502 may be present. Carbamazepine extended-release capsules should not be used in patients positive for HLA-B*1502 unless the benefits clearly outweigh the risks. Tested patients who are found to be negative for the allele are thought to have a low risk of SJS/TEN (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS/Laboratory Tests ). This information may be taken into consideration in determining the need for screening of genetically at-risk patients currently on carbamazepine extended-release capsules. The HLA-B*1502 allele has not been found to predict risk of less severe adverse cutaneous reactions from carbamazepine, such as maculopapular eruption [MPE] or to predict Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS). Limited evidence suggests that HLA-B*1502 may be a risk factor for the development of SJS/TEN in patients of Chinese ancestry taking other anti-epileptic drugs associated with SJS/TEN, including phenytoin. Patients should be made aware that carbamazepine extended-release capsules contain carbamazepine and should not be used in combination with any other medications containing carbamazepine. HLA-A*3101 is expected to be carried by more than 15% of patients of Japanese, Native American, Southern Indian (e.g., Tamil Nadu) and some Arabic ancestry; up to about 10% in patients of Han Chinese, Korean, European, Latin American and other Indian ancestry; and up to about 5% in African-Americans and patients of Thai, Taiwanese, and Chinese (Hong Kong) ancestry. General Information on HLA Genotyping and Hypersensitivity Application of HLA genotyping as a screening tool has important limitations and must never substitute for appropriate clinical vigilance and patient management. The role of other possible factors in the development of, and morbidity from, SJS/TEN and other hypersensitivity reactions, such as AED dose, compliance, concomitant medications, co-morbidities, and the level of dermatologic monitoring have not been studied. Aplastic Anemia and Agranulocytosis Aplastic anemia and agranulocytosis have been reported in association with the use of carbamazepine. (See BOXED WARNING .) Patients with a history of adverse hematologic reaction to any drug may be particularly at risk of bone marrow depression. DRESS typically, although not exclusively, presents with fever, rash, lymphadenopathy and/or facial swelling in association with other organ system involvement, such as hepatitis, nephritis, hematologic abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis sometimes resembling an acute viral infection. A history of hypersensitivity reactions should be obtained for patients and their immediate family members. If such history is present, benefits and risks should be carefully considered, and, if carbamazepine is initiated, the signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity should be carefully monitored. In patients who have exhibited hypersensitivity reactions to carbamazepine, approximately 25 to 30% may experience hypersensitivity reactions with oxcarbazepine (Trileptal ® ). If a patient develops any of these reactions after treatment with carbamazepine extended-release capsules, the drug should be discontinued and an alternative treatment started. Withdrawal Precipitated Seizure, Status Epilepticus Antiepileptic drugs should not be abruptly discontinued because of the possibility of increased seizure frequency, including status epilepticus. When in the judgment of the clinician, the need for dosage reduction, discontinuation, or substitution of alternative anticonvulsant medication arises, this should be done gradually. However, in the event of an allergic or hypersensitivity reaction, more rapid substitution of alternative therapy may be necessary. Suicidal Behavior and Ideation Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), including carbamazepine extended-release capsules, increase the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior in patients taking these drugs for any indication. Table 1 - Risk by Indication for Antiepileptic Drugs in the Pooled Analysis Indication Placebo Patients with Events Per 1000 Patients Drug Patients with Events Per 1000 Patients Relative Risk: Incidence of Events in Drug Patients/ Incidence in Placebo Patients Risk Difference: Additional Drug Patients with Events Per 1000 Patients Epilepsy 1.0 3.4 3.5 2.4 Psychiatric 5.7 8.5 1.5 2.9 Other 1.0 1.8 1.9 0.9 Total 2.4 4.3 1.8 1.9 The relative risk for suicidal thoughts or behavior was higher in clinical trials for epilepsy than in clinical trials for psychiatric or other conditions, but the absolute risk differences were similar for the epilepsy and psychiatric indications. Anyone considering prescribing carbamazepine extended-release capsules or any other AED must balance the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior with the risk of untreated illness. Epilepsy and many other illnesses for which AEDs are prescribed are themselves associated with morbidity and mortality and an increased risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior. Hyponatremia, Syndrome of Inappropriate Antidiuretic Hormone Secretion, and Water Intoxication Hyponatremia can occur as a result of treatment with carbamazepine extended-release capsules. In many cases, this hyponatremia appears to be the result of the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). The risk of developing SIADH with carbamazepine treatment may be dose-related. Consider discontinuing carbamazepine extended-release capsules in patients with symptomatic hyponatremia. Developmental delays have been reported. Carbamazepine has been shown to have adverse effects in reproduction studies in rats when given orally in dosages 10 to 25 times the maximum human daily dosage (MHDD) of 1,200 mg on a mg/kg basis or 1.5 to 4 times the MHDD on a mg/m 2 basis. Antiepileptic drugs should not be discontinued abruptly in patients in whom the drug is administered to prevent major seizures because of the strong possibility of precipitating status epilepticus with attendant hypoxia and threat to life. In individual cases where the severity and frequency of the seizure disorder are such that removal of medication does not pose a serious threat to the patient, discontinuation of the drug may be considered prior to and during pregnancy, although it cannot be said with any confidence that even minor seizures do not pose some hazard to the developing embryo or fetus. Tests to detect defects using current accepted procedures should be considered a part of routine prenatal care in childbearing women receiving carbamazepine. There have been a few cases of neonatal seizures and/or respiratory depression reported in association with maternal carbamazepine and other concomitant anticonvulsant drug use. To provide information regarding the effects of in utero exposure to carbamazepine extended-release capsules, physicians are advised to recommend that pregnant patients taking carbamazepine extended-release capsules enroll in the North American Antiepileptic Drug (NAAED) Pregnancy Registry. Information on the registry can also be found at the website http://www.aedpregnancyregistry.org/ . General Carbamazepine has shown mild anticholinergic activity; therefore, patients with increased intraocular pressure should be closely observed during therapy. Because of the relationship of the drug to other tricyclic compounds, the possibility of activation of a latent psychosis and, in elderly patients, of confusion or agitation should be considered. Table 1 Risk by Indication for Antiepileptic Drugs in the Pooled Analysis Indication Placebo Patients with Events Per 1,000 Patients Drug Patients with Events Per 1,000 Patients Relative Risk: Incidence of Events in Drug Patients/Incidence in Placebo Patients Risk Difference: Additional Drug Patients with Events Per 1,000 Patients Epilepsy 1.0 3.4 3.5 2.4 Psychiatric 5.7 8.5 1.5 2.9 Other 1.0 1.8 1.9 0.9 Total 2.4 4.3 1.8 1.9 The relative risk for suicidal thoughts or behavior was higher in clinical trials for epilepsy than in clinical trials for psychiatric or other conditions, but the absolute risk differences were similar for the epilepsy and psychiatric indications. Tests to detect defects using currently accepted procedures should be considered a part of routine prenatal care in childbearing women receiving carbamazepine. Carbamazepine should be discontinued at the first sign of a rash, unless the rash is clearly not drug related. If signs or symptoms suggest SJS/TEN, use of this drug should not be resumed, and alternative therapy should be considered. Prior to initiating carbamazepine therapy, testing for HLA -B*1502 should be performed in patients with ancestry in populations in which HLA -B*1502 may be present . Tested patients who are found to be negative for the allele are thought to have a low risk of SJS/TEN ( see BOXED WARNING and PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests ). The HLA-B*1502 allele has not been found to predict risk of less severe adverse cutaneous reactions from carbamazepine, such as maculopapular eruption (MPE) or to predict Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS). These hypersensitivity reactions include SJS/TEN, maculopapular eruptions, and Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms ( see DRESS / Multiorgan hypersensitivity below). HLA-A*3101 is expected to be carried by more than 15% of patients of Japanese, Native American, Southern Indian (for example, Tamil Nadu), and some Arabic ancestry; up to about 10% in patients of Han Chinese, Korean, European, Latin American, and other Indian ancestry; and up to about 5% in African-Americans, and patients of Thai, Taiwanese, and Chinese (Hong Kong) ancestry. Aplastic Anemia and Agranulocytosis Aplastic anemia and agranulocytosis have been reported in association with the use of carbamazepine ( see BOXED WARNING ). Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)/Multiorgan Hypersensitivity Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), also known as multiorgan hypersensitivity, has occurred with carbamazepine. Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity reactions to carbamazepine have been reported in patients who previously experienced this reaction to anticonvulsants, including phenytoin, primidone, and phenobarbital. Table 1. Risk by Indication for Antiepileptic Drugs in the Pooled Analysis Indication Placebo patients with events per 1,000 patients Drug patients with events per 1,000 patients Relative risk: incidence of events in drug patients/incidence in placebo patients Risk difference: additional drug patients with events per 1,000 patients Epilepsy 1.0 3.4 3.5 2.4 Psychiatric 5.7 8.5 1.5 2.9 Other 1.0 1.8 1.9 0.9 Total 2.4 4.3 1.8 1.9 The relative risk for suicidal thoughts or behavior was higher in clinical trials for epilepsy than in clinical trials for psychiatric or other conditions, but the absolute risk differences were similar for the epilepsy and psychiatric indications. Anyone considering prescribing carbamazepine, or any other AED must balance the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior with the risk of untreated illness. This can be done by calling the toll-free number 1-888-233-2334 and must be done by patients themselves. (see BOXED WARNING ). WARNINGS Serious Dermatologic Reactions Serious and sometimes fatal dermatologic reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) and Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), have been reported with carbamazepine extended-release tablets treatment. Carbamazepine extended-release tablets should be discontinued at the first sign of a rash, unless the rash is clearly not drug-related. Prior to initiating carbamazepine extended-release tablets therapy, testing for HLA-B*1502 should be performed in patients with ancestry in populations in which HLA-B*1502 may be present. Carbamazepine extended-release tablets should not be used in patients positive for HLA-B*1502 unless the benefits clearly outweigh the risks. Tested patients who are found to be negative for the allele are thought to have a low risk of SJS/TEN (see BOXED WARNING and PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests). Over 90% of carbamazepine extended-release tablets treated patients who will experience SJS/TEN have this reaction within the first few months of treatment. This information may be taken into consideration in determining the need for screening of genetically at-risk patients currently on carbamazepine extended-release tablets. The HLA-B*1502 allele has not been found to predict risk of less severe adverse cutaneous reactions from carbamazepine extended-release tablets, such as maculopapular eruption (MPE) or to predict Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS). HLA-A*3101 is expected to be carried by more than 15% of patients of Japanese, Native American, Southern Indian (for example, Tamil Nadu), and some Arabic ancestry; up to about 10% in patients of Han Chinese, Korean, European, Latin American, and other Indian ancestry; and up to about 5% in African-Americans and patients of Thai, Taiwanese, and Chinese (Hong Kong) ancestry. The risks and benefits of carbamazepine extended-release tablets therapy should be weighed before considering carbamazepine extended-release tablets in patients known to be positive for HLA-A*3101. Many HLA-B*1502-positive and HLA-A*3101-positive patients treated with carbamazepine extended-release tablets will not develop SJS/TEN or other hypersensitivity reactions, and these reactions can still occur infrequently in HLA-B*1502-negative and HLA-A*3101-negative patients of any ethnicity. Aplastic Anemia and Agranulocytosis Aplastic anemia and agranulocytosis have been reported in association with the use of carbamazepine extended-release tablets (see BOXED WARNING). Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)/Multiorgan Hypersensitivity Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), also known as multiorgan hypersensitivity, has occurred with carbamazepine extended-release tablets. Carbamazepine extended-release tablets should be discontinued if an alternative etiology for the signs or symptoms cannot be established. Anaphylaxis and Angioedema Rare cases of anaphylaxis and angioedema involving the larynx, glottis, lips, and eyelids have been reported in patients after taking the first or subsequent doses of carbamazepine extended-release tablets. If a patient develops any of these reactions after treatment with carbamazepine extended-release tablets, the drug should be discontinued and an alternative treatment started. Suicidal Behavior and Ideation Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), including carbamazepine extended-release tablets, increase the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior in patients taking these drugs for any indication. Table 1: Risk by Indication for Antiepileptic Drugs in the Pooled Analysis Indication Placebo Patients with Events Per 1,000 Patients Drug Patients with Events Per 1,000 Patients Relative Risk: Incidence of Events in Drug Patients/Incidence in Placebo Patients Risk Difference: Additional Drug Patients with Events Per 1,000 Patients Epilepsy 1 3.4 3.5 2.4 Psychiatric 5.7 8.5 1.5 2.9 Other 1 1.8 1.9 0.9 Total 2.4 4.3 1.8 1.9 The relative risk for suicidal thoughts or behavior was higher in clinical trials for epilepsy than in clinical trials for psychiatric or other conditions, but the absolute risk differences were similar for the epilepsy and psychiatric indications. Anyone considering prescribing carbamazepine extended-release tablets or any other AED must balance the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior with the risk of untreated illness. General Carbamazepine extended-release tablet has shown mild anticholinergic activity that may be associated with increased intraocular pressure; therefore, patients with increased intraocular pressure should be closely observed during therapy. The use of carbamazepine extended-release tablets should be avoided in patients with a history of hepatic porphyria (e.g., acute intermittent porphyria, variegate porphyria, porphyria cutanea tarda). Acute attacks have been reported in such patients receiving carbamazepine extended-release tablets therapy. As with all antiepileptic drugs, carbamazepine extended-release tablets should be withdrawn gradually to minimize the potential of increased seizure frequency. Hyponatremia can occur as a result of treatment with carbamazepine extended-release tablets. The risk of developing SIADH with carbamazepine extended-release tablets treatment appears to be dose-related. Consider discontinuing carbamazepine extended-release tablets in patients with symptomatic hyponatremia. Tested patients who are found to be negative for the allele are thought to have a low risk of SJS/TEN (see BOXED WARNING and PRECAUTIONS , Laboratory Tests ). Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)/ Multiorgan Hypersensitivity Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), also known as multiorgan hypersensitivity, has occurred with carbamazepine. Patients should be informed that about a third of patients who have had hypersensitivity reactions to carbamazepine also experience hypersensitivity reactions with oxcarbazepine (Trileptal®). Pooled analyses of 199 placebo-controlled clinical trials (mono - and adjunctive therapy) of 11 different AEDs showed that patients randomized to one of the AEDs had approximately twice the risk (adjusted Relative Risk 1.8, 95% CI:1.2, 2.7) of suicidal thinking or behavior compared to patients randomized to placebo. Carbamazepine has been shown to have adverse effects in reproduction studies in rats when given orally in dosages 10 to 25 times the maximum human daily dosage (MHDD) of 1200 mg on a mg/kg basis or 1.5 to 4 times the MHDD on a mg/m2 basis.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Carbamazepine should not be used in patients with a history of previous bone marrow depression, hypersensitivity to the drug, or known sensitivity to any of the tricyclic compounds, such as amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine, protriptyline, nortriptyline, etc. Likewise, on theoretical grounds its use with monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors is not recommended. Before administration of carbamazepine, MAO inhibitors should be discontinued for a minimum of 14 days, or longer if the clinical situation permits. Coadministration of carbamazepine and nefazodone may result in insufficient plasma concentrations of nefazodone and its active metabolite to achieve a therapeutic effect. Coadministration of carbamazepine with nefazodone is contraindicated. CONTRAINDICATIONS Carbamazepine should not be used in patients with a history of previous bone marrow depression, hypersensitivity to the drug, or known sensitivity to any of the tricyclic compounds, such as amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine, protriptyline and nortriptyline. Likewise, on theoretical grounds its use with monoamine oxidase inhibitors is not recommended. Coadministration of carbamazepine is contraindicated with delavirdine due to the potential for loss of virologic response and possible resistance to delavirdine or to the class of non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors. CONTRAINDICATIONS Carbamazepine extended-release tablets should not be used in patients with a history of previous bone marrow depression, hypersensitivity to the drug, or known sensitivity to any of the tricyclic compounds, such as amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine, protriptyline, nortriptyline, etc. Before administration of carbamazepine extended-release tablets, MAO inhibitors should be discontinued for a minimum of 14 days, or longer if the clinical situation permits.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions There has been a report of a patient who passed an orange rubbery precipitate in his stool the day after ingesting carbamazepine suspension immediately followed by Thorazine solution. Subsequent testing has shown that mixing carbamazepine suspension and chlorpromazine solution (both generic and brand name) as well as carbamazepine suspension and liquid Mellaril, resulted in the occurrence of this precipitate. Because the extent to which this occurs with other liquid medications is not known, carbamazepine suspension should not be administered simultaneously with other liquid medicinal agents or diluents (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). Clinically meaningful drug interactions have occurred with concomitant medications and include (but are not limited to) the following: Agents That May Affect Carbamazepine Plasma Levels When carbamazepine is given with drugs that can increase or decrease carbamazepine levels, close monitoring of carbamazepine levels is indicated and dosage adjustment may be required. Agents That Increase Carbamazepine Levels CYP3A4 inhibitors inhibit carbamazepine metabolism and can thus increase plasma carbamazepine levels. Drugs that have been shown, or would be expected, to increase plasma carbamazepine levels include aprepitant, cimetidine, ciprofloxacin, danazol, diltiazem, macrolides (e.g., erythromycin, clarithromycin), fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, trazodone, omeprazole, oxybutynin, isoniazid, niacinamide (nicotinamide), azoles (e.g., ketaconazole, itraconazole, fluconazole, voriconazole), acetazolamide, verapamil, ticlopidine, grapefruit juice, and protease inhibitors. Human microsomal epoxide hydrolase has been identified as the enzyme responsible for the formation of the 10, 11-transdiol derivative from carbamazepine-10,11 epoxide. Coadministration of inhibitors of human microsomal epoxide hydrolase may result in increased carbamazepine-10, 11 epoxide plasma concentrations. Accordingly, the dosage of carbamazepine should be adjusted and/or the plasma levels monitored when used concomitantly with loxapine, quetiapine, valproic acid, or brivaracetam. Agents That Decrease Carbamazepine Levels CYP3A4 inducers can increase the rate of carbamazepine metabolism. Drugs that have been shown, or that would be expected, to decrease plasma carbamazepine levels include cisplatin, doxorubicin HCl, felbamate, fosphenytoin, rifampin, phenobarbital, phenytoin, primidone, methsuximide, theophylline, aminophylline. Effect of Carbamazepine on Plasma Levels of Concomitant Agents Decreased Levels of Concomitant Medications Carbamazepine is a potent inducer of hepatic 3A4 and is also known to be an inducer of CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C8/9/19 and may therefore reduce plasma concentrations of co-medications mainly metabolized by CYP 1A2, 2B6, 2C8/9/19 and 3A4, through induction of their metabolism. When used concomitantly with carbamazepine, monitoring of concentrations or dosage adjustment of these agents may be necessary: When carbamazepine is added to aripiprazole, the aripiprazole dose should be doubled. Additional dose increases should be based on clinical evaluation. If carbamazepine is later withdrawn, the aripiprazole dose should be reduced. When carbamazepine is used with tacrolimus, monitoring of tacrolimus blood concentrations and appropriate dosage adjustments are recommended. The use of concomitant strong CYP3A4 inducers such as carbamazepine should be avoided with temsirolimus. If patients must be coadministered carbamazepine with temsirolimus, an adjustment of temsirolimus dosage should be considered. The use of carbamazepine with lapatinib should generally be avoided. If carbamazepine is started in a patient already taking lapatinib, the dose of lapatinib should be gradually titrated up. If carbamazepine is discontinued, the lapatinib dose should be reduced. Concomitant use of carbamazepine with nefazodone results in plasma concentrations of nefazodone and its active metabolite insufficient to achieve a therapeutic effect. Coadministration of carbamazepine with nefazodone is contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Monitor concentrations of valproate when carbamazepine is introduced or withdrawn in patients using valproic acid. In addition, carbamazepine causes, or would be expected to cause, decreased levels of the following drugs, for which monitoring of concentrations or dosage adjustment may be necessary: acetaminophen, albendazole, alprazolam, aprepitant, buprenorphone, bupropion, citalopram, clonazepam, clozapine, corticosteroids (e.g., prednisolone, dexamethasone), cyclosporine, dicumarol, dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers (e.g., felodipine), doxycycline, ethosuximide, everolimus, haloperidol, imatinib, itraconazole, lamotrigine, levothyroxine, methadone, methsuximide, mianserin, midazolam, olanzapine, oral and other hormonal contraceptives, oxcarbazepine, paliperidone, phensuximide, phenytoin, praziquantel, protease inhibitors, risperidone, sertraline, sirolimus, tadalafil, theophylline, tiagabine, topiramate, tramadol, trazodone, tricyclic antidepressants (e.g., imipramine, amitriptyline, nortriptyline), valproate, warfarin, ziprasidone, zonisamide. Other Drug Interactions Cyclophosphamide is an inactive prodrug and is converted to its active metabolite in part by CYP3A. The rate of metabolism and the leukopenic activity of cyclophosphamide are reportedly increased by chronic coadministration of CYP3A4 inducers. There is a potential for increased cyclophosphamide toxicity when coadministered with carbamazepine. Concomitant administration of carbamazepine and lithium may increase the risk of neurotoxic side effects. Concomitant use of carbamazepine with olanzapine, dantrolene, or ibuprofen may increase plasma carbamazepine levels. Concomitant use of carbamazepine and isoniazid has been reported to increase isoniazid-induced hepatotoxicity. Alterations of thyroid function have been reported in combination therapy with other anticonvulsant medications. Concomitant use of carbamazepine with hormonal contraceptive products (e.g., oral, and levonorgestrel subdermal implant contraceptives) may render the contraceptives less effective because the plasma concentrations of the hormones may be decreased. Breakthrough bleeding and unintended pregnancies have been reported. Alternative or back-up methods of contraception should be considered. Resistance to the neuromuscular blocking action of the nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents pancuronium, vecuronium, rocuronium and cisatracurium has occurred in patients chronically administered carbamazepine. Whether or not carbamazepine has the same effect on other non-depolarizing agents is unknown. Patients should be monitored closely for more rapid recovery from neuromuscular blockade than expected, and infusion rate requirements may be higher. Concomitant use of carbamazepine with rivaroxaban, apixaban, dabigatran, and edoxaban (direct acting oral anticoagulants) is expected to result in decreased plasma concentration of these anticoagulants that may be insufficient to achieve the intended therapeutic effect. In general, coadministration of carbamazepine with rivaroxaban, apixaban, dabigatran, and edoxaban should be avoided. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility Carbamazepine, when administered to Sprague-Dawley rats for two years in the diet at doses of 25, 75, and 250 mg/kg/day, resulted in a dose-related increase in the incidence of hepatocellular tumors in females and of benign interstitial cell adenomas in the testes of males. Carbamazepine must, therefore, be considered to be carcinogenic in Sprague-Dawley rats. Bacterial and mammalian mutagenicity studies using carbamazepine produced negative results. The significance of these findings relative to the use of carbamazepine in humans is, at present, unknown. Usage in Pregnancy (see WARNINGS). Labor and Delivery The effect of carbamazepine on human labor and delivery is unknown. Nursing Mothers Carbamazepine and its epoxide metabolite are transferred to breast milk. The ratio of the concentration in breast milk to that in maternal plasma is about 0.4 for carbamazepine and about 0.5 for the epoxide. The estimated doses given to the newborn during breastfeeding are in the range of 2 to 5 mg daily for carbamazepine and 1 to 2 mg daily for the epoxide. Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from carbamazepine, a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother. Pediatric Use Substantial evidence of carbamazepine's effectiveness for use in the management of children with epilepsy (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE for specific seizure types) is derived from clinical investigations performed in adults and from studies in several in vitro systems which support the conclusion that (1) the pathogenetic mechanisms underlying seizure propagation are essentially identical in adults and children, and (2) the mechanism of action of carbamazepine in treating seizures is essentially identical in adults and children. Taken as a whole, this information supports a conclusion that the generally accepted therapeutic range of total carbamazepine in plasma (i.e. 4 to 12 mcg/mL) is the same in children and adults. The evidence assembled was primarily obtained from short-term use of carbamazepine. The safety of carbamazepine in children has been systematically studied up to 6 months. No longer-term data from clinical trials is available. Geriatric Use No systematic studies in geriatric patients have been conducted. Drug Interactions There has been a report of a patient who passed an orange rubbery precipitate in his stool the day after ingesting carbamazepine suspension immediately followed by Thorazine ® * solution. Subsequent testing has shown that mixing carbamazepine suspension and chlorpromazine solution (both generic and brand name) as well as carbamazepine suspension and liquid Mellaril ® , resulted in the occurrence of this precipitate. Because the extent to which this occurs with other liquid medications is not known, carbamazepine suspension should not be administered simultaneously with other liquid medicinal agents or diluents (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Drugs that have been shown, or would be expected, to increase plasma carbamazepine levels include aprepitant, cimetidine, ciprofloxacin, danazol, diltiazem, macrolides (e.g. erythromycin, clarithromycin), fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, trazodone, omeprazole, oxybutynin, isoniazid, niacinamide (nicotinamide), azoles (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, fluconazole, voriconazole), acetazolamide, verapamil, ticlopidine, grapefruit juice, and protease inhibitors. Human microsomal epoxide hydrolase has been identified as the enzyme responsible for the formation of the 10,11-transdiol derivative from carbamazepine-10,11 epoxide. Coadministration of inhibitors of human microsomal epoxide hydrolase may result in increased carbamazepine-10,11 epoxide plasma concentrations. Effect of Carbamazepine on Plasma Levels of Concomitant Agents Decreased Levels of Concomitant Medications Carbamazepine is a potent inducer of hepatic 3A4 and is also known to be an inducer of CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C89/19 and may therefore reduce plasma concentrations of co-medications mainly metabolized by CYP 1A2, 2B6, 2C89/19 and 3A4, through induction of their metabolism. The use of concomitant strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as carbamazepine should be avoided with temsirolimus. In addition, carbamazepine causes, or would be expected to cause, decreased levels of the following drugs, for which monitoring of concentrations or dosage adjustment may be necessary: acetaminophen, albendazole, alprazolam, aprepitant, buprenorphone, bupropion, citalopram, clonazepam, clozapine, corticosteroids (e.g., prednisolone, dexamethasone), cyclosporine, dicumarol, dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers (e.g., felodipine), doxycycline, eslicarbazepine, ethosuximide, everolimus, haloperidol, imatinib, itraconazole, lamotrigine, levothyroxine, methadone, methsuximide, mianserin, midazolam, olanzapine, oral and other hormonal contraceptives, oxcarbazepine, paliperidone, phensuximide, phenytoin, praziquantel, protease inhibitors, risperidone, sertraline, sirolimus, tadalafil, theophylline, tiagabine, topiramate, tramadol, trazodone, tricyclic antidepressants (e.g., imipramine, amitriptyline, nortriptyline), valproate, warfarin, ziprasidone, zonisamide. Concomitant use of carbamazepine with rivaroxaban, apixaban, dabigatran, and edoxaban (direct acting oral anticoagulants) is expected to result in decreased plasma concentrations of these anticoagulants that may be insufficient to achieve the intended therapeutic effect. Drug Interactions Clinically meaningful drug interactions have occurred with concomitant medications and include, but are not limited to the following: Agents Highly Bound to Plasma Protein: Carbamazepine is not highly bound to plasma proteins; therefore, administration of carbamazepine extended-release capsules to a patient taking another drug that is highly protein bound should not cause increased free concentrations of the other drug. Agents that Inhibit Cytochrome P450 Isoenzymes and/or Epoxide Hydrolase: Carbamazepine is metabolized mainly by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 to the active carbamazepine 10, 11-epoxide, which is further metabolized to the trans-diol by epoxide hydrolase. Therefore, the potential exists for interaction between carbamazepine and any agent that inhibits CYP3A4 and/or epoxide hydrolase. Agents that are CYP3A4 inhibitors that have been found, or are expected, to increase plasma levels of carbamazepine extended-release capsules include, for example, the following: Acetazolamide, aprepitant, azole antifungals (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, fluconazole, voriconazole), cimetidine, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, dalfopristin, danazol, dantrolene, delavirdine, diltiazem, erythromycin, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, grapefruit juice, ibuprofen, isoniazid, loratadine, macrolides, nefazodone, niacinamide, nicotinamide, olanzapine, omeprazole, oxybutynin, protease inhibitors, propoxyphene, quinine, quinupristin, ticlopidine, troleandomycin, valproate, verapamil, zileuton. Accordingly, the dosage of carbamazepine extended-release capsules should be adjusted and/or the plasma levels monitored when used concomitantly with loxapine, quetiapine, or valproic acid. Thus, if a patient has been titrated to a stable dosage of carbamazepine extended-release capsules, and then begins a course of treatment with one of these CYP3A4 or epoxide hydrolase inhibitors, it is reasonable to expect that a dose reduction for carbamazepine extended-release capsules may be necessary. Agents that Induce Cytochrome P450 Isoenzymes : Carbamazepine is metabolized by CYP3A4. Therefore, the potential exists for interaction between carbamazepine and any agent that induces CYP3A4. Agents that are CYP inducers that have been found, or are expected, to decrease plasma levels of carbamazepine extended-release capsules include, for example, the following: Aminophylline, cisplatin, doxorubicin HCL, felbamate, fosphenytoin, methsuximide, phenobarbital, phenytoin( 1 ), primidone, rifampin and theophylline. (1) Phenytoin plasma levels have also been reported to increase and decrease in the presence of carbamazepine, see below. Thus, if a patient has been titrated to a stable dosage on carbamazepine extended-release capsules, and then begins a course of treatment with one of these CYP3A4 inducers, it is reasonable to expect that a dose increase for carbamazepine extended-release capsules may be necessary. Agents with Decreased Levels in the Presence of Carbamazepine due to Induction of Cytochrome P450 Enzymes: Carbamazepine is a potent inducer of hepatic CYP3A4 and is also known to be an inducer of CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C9/19 and may therefore reduce plasma concentrations of co-medications mainly metabolized by CYP 1A2, 2B6, 2C9/19 and 3A4, through induction of their metabolism. When used concomitantly with carbamazepine extended-release capsules, monitoring of concentrations or dosage adjustment of these agents may be necessary: When carbamazepine is added to aripiprazole, the aripiprazole dose should be doubled. Monitor concentrations of valproate when carbamazepine extended-release capsules are introduced or withdrawn in patients using valproic acid. In addition, carbamazepine causes, or would be expected to cause, decreased levels of, for example, the following drugs, for which monitoring of concentrations or dosage adjustment may be necessary: Acetaminophen, albendazole, alprazolam, aprepitant, buprenorphine, apixaban( 6 ), bupropion, buspirone, citalopram, clobazam, clonazepam, clozapine, corticosteroids (e.g. prednisolone, dexamethasone), cyclosporin, dabigatran( 6 ), delavirdine, desipramine, diazepam, dicumarol, dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers (e.g., felodipine), doxycycline, edoxaban( 6 ), eslicarbazepine, ethosuximide, everolimus, felbamate, haloperidol, imatinib, itraconazole, lamotrigine, levothyroxine, lorazepam, methadone, methsuximide, midazolam, mirtazapine, nefazodone, nortriptyline, olanzapine, oral and other hormonal contraceptives( 2 ), oxcarbazepine, paliperidone, phenytoin( 3 ), praziquantel, protease inhibitors, quetiapine, risperidone, rivaroxaban( 6 ), sertraline, sirolimus, tadalafil, theophylline, tiagabine, topiramate, tramadol, triazolam, trazodone( 4 ), tricyclic antidepressants (e.g., imipramine, amitriptyline, nortriptyline), valproate, warfarin (5) , ziprasidone, and zonisamide. ( 2 ) Concomitant use of carbamazepine with hormonal contraceptive products (e.g., oral and levonorgestrel subdermal implant contraceptives) may render the contraceptives less effective because the plasma concentrations of the hormones may be decreased. Breakthrough bleeding and unintended pregnancies have been reported with carbamazepine. ( 3 ) Phenytoin has also been reported to increase in the presence of carbamazepine. Careful monitoring of phenytoin plasma levels following co-medication with carbamazepine is advised. ( 4 ) Following co-administration of carbamazepine 400 mg/day with trazodone 100 mg to 300 mg daily, carbamazepine reduced trough plasma concentrations of trazodone (as well as meta-chlorophenylpiperazine [mCPP]) by 76 and 60% respectively, compared to precarbamazepine values. (5) Warfarin’s anticoagulant effect can be reduced in the presence of carbamazepine. (6) Concomitant use of carbamazepine with rivaroxaban, apixaban, dabigatran, and edoxaban (direct acting oral anticoagulants) is expected to result in decreased plasma concentrations of these anticoagulants that may be insufficient to achieve the intended therapeutic effect. Thus, if a patient has been titrated to a stable dosage on one of the agents in this category, and then begins a course of treatment with carbamazepine extended-release capsules, it is reasonable to expect that a dose increase for the concomitant agent may be necessary. Agents with Increased Levels in the Presence of Carbamazepine Carbamazepine extended-release capsules increase the plasma levels of the following agents. Thus, if a patient has been titrated to a stable dosage on one of the agents in this category, and then begins a course of the treatment with carbamazepine extended-release capsules, it is reasonable to expect that a dose decrease for the concomitant agent may be necessary. Clomipramine HCl, Phenytoin( 7 ), and Primidone Carbamazepine extended-release capsules can increase the concentrations of clomipramine, phenytoin, and primidone. If a patient has been titrated to a stable dosage on one of these agents in this category, and then begins treatment with carbamazepine extended-release capsules, it may be necessary to decrease the dose of these drugs. ( 7 )Phenytoin has also been reported to decrease in the presence of carbamazepine. Cyclophosphamide Cyclophosphamide is an inactive prodrug and is converted to its active metabolite in part by CYP3A. The rate of metabolism and the leukopenic activity of cyclophosphamide are reportedly increased by chronic co-administration of CYP3A4 inducers. Pharmacological/Pharmacodynamic Interactions with Carbamazepine: Delavirdine Coadministration of carbamazepine with delavirdine may lead to loss of virologic response and possible resistance to delavirdine or to the class of non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Lithium Concomitant administration of carbamazepine and lithium may increase the risk of neurotoxic side effects. Thyroid Effects with Other Anticonvulsant Medications Alterations of thyroid function have been reported in combination therapy with other anticonvulsant medications. Chloroquine and Mefloquine Anti-malarial drugs, such as chloroquine and mefloquine, may antagonize the activity of carbamazepine. Thus if a patient has been titrated to a stable dosage on one of the agents in this category, and then begins a course of treatment with carbamazepine extended-release capsules, it is reasonable to expect that a dose adjustment may be necessary. CNS Depressants The concomitant use of carbamazepine extended-release capsules and other CNS depressants can increase the risk of respiratory depression, profound sedation, hypotension, and syncope. CNS depressants include: alcohol, opioid analgesics, benzodiazepines, tricyclic antidepressants, sedative/hypnotics, anticonvulsants, antipsychotics, antihistamines, anticholinergics, alpha and beta blockers, general anesthetics, muscle relaxants, and illicit CNS depressants. Consider reducing the dose of CNS depressants or carbamazepine extended-release capsules when using these drugs concomitantly. Because of its primary CNS effect, caution should be used when carbamazepine extended-release capsules are taken with other centrally acting drugs and alcohol. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Resistance to the neuromuscular blocking action of the nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents pancuronium, vecuronium, rocuronium and cisatracurium has occurred in patients chronically administered carbamazepine. Whether or not carbamazepine has the same effect on other nondepolarizing agents is unknown. Drugs that have been shown, or would be expected, to increase plasma carbamazepine levels include aprepitant, cimetidine, ciprofloxacin, danazol, diltiazem, macrolides, erythromycin, troleandomycin, clarithromycin, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, trazodone, olanzapine, loratadine, terfenadine, omeprazole, oxybutynin, dantrolene, isoniazid, niacinamide, nicotinamide, ibuprofen, propoxyphene, azoles (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, fluconazole, voriconazole), acetazolamide, verapamil, ticlopidine, grapefruit juice, and protease inhibitors. Accordingly, the dosage of carbamazepine should be adjusted and/or the plasma levels monitored when used concomitantly with loxapine, quetiapine, or valproic acid. Effect of Carbamazepine on Plasma Levels of Concomitant Agents Decreased Levels of Concomitant Medications Carbamazepine is a potent inducer of hepatic 3A4 and is also known to be an inducer of CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C9/19 and may therefore reduce plasma concentrations of co-medications mainly metabolized by CYP 1A2, 2B6, 2C9/19 and 3A4, through induction of their metabolism. Because the extent to which this occurs with other liquid medications is not known, carbamazepine suspension should not be administered simultaneously with other liquid medicinal agents or diluents ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Clinically meaningful drug interactions have occurred with concomitant medications and include (but are not limited to) the following: Drug Interactions There has been a report of a patient who passed an orange rubbery precipitate in his stool the day after ingesting tegretol suspension immediately followed by Thorazine ®* solution. Subsequent testing has shown that mixing tegretol suspension and tegretol solution (both generic and brand name) as well as carbamazepine suspension and liquid Mellaril ® , resulted in the occurrence of this precipitate. Because the extent to which this occurs with other liquid medications is not known, tegretol suspension should not be administered simultaneously with other liquid medicinal agents or diluents (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Drug Interactions Clinically meaningful drug interactions have occurred with concomitant medications and include (but are not limited to) the following: Agents That May Affect Carbamazepine Plasma Levels When carbamazepine is given with drugs that can increase or decrease carbamazepine levels, close monitoring of carbamazepine levels is indicated and dosage adjustment may be required. Accordingly, the dosage of carbamazepine extended-release tablets should be adjusted and/or the plasma levels monitored when used concomitantly with loxapine, quetiapine, valproic acid, or brivaracetam. Effect of Carbamazepine Extended-Release Tablets on Plasma Levels of Concomitant Agents Decreased Levels of Concomitant Medications Carbamazepine extended-release tablet is a potent inducer of hepatic 3A4 and is also known to be an inducer of CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C8/9/19, and may therefore reduce plasma concentrations of co-medications mainly metabolized by CYP 1A2, 2B6, 2C8/9/19, and 3A4, through induction of their metabolism. When used concomitantly with carbamazepine extended-release tablets, monitoring of concentrations or dosage adjustment of these agents may be necessary: • When carbamazepine is added to aripiprazole, the aripiprazole dose should be doubled. • When carbamazepine is used with tacrolimus, monitoring of tacrolimus blood concentrations and appropriate dosage adjustments are recommended. • The use of concomitant strong CYP3A4 inducers, such as carbamazepine should be avoided with temsirolimus. • The use of carbamazepine with lapatinib should generally be avoided. • Concomitant use of carbamazepine with nefazodone results in plasma concentrations of nefazodone and its active metabolite insufficient to achieve a therapeutic effect. Coadministration of carbamazepine with nefazodone is contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). • Monitor concentrations of valproate when carbamazepine extended-release tablet is introduced or withdrawn in patients using valproic acid. In addition, carbamazepine extended-release tablet causes, or would be expected to cause, decreased levels of the following drugs, for which monitoring of concentrations or dosage adjustment may be necessary: acetaminophen, albendazole, alprazolam, aprepitant, buprenorphone, bupropion, citalopram, clonazepam, clozapine, corticosteroids (e.g., prednisolone, dexamethasone), cyclosporine, dicumarol, dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers (e.g., felodipine), doxycycline, eslicarbazepine, ethosuximide, everolimus, haloperidol, imatinib, itraconazole, lamotrigine, levothyroxine, methadone, methsuximide, mianserin, midazolam, olanzapine, oral and other hormonal contraceptives, oxcarbazepine, paliperidone, phensuximide, phenytoin, praziquantel, protease inhibitors, risperidone, sertraline, sirolimus, tadalafil, theophylline, tiagabine, topiramate, tramadol, trazodone, tricyclic antidepressants (e.g., imipramine, amitriptyline, nortriptyline), valproate, warfarin, ziprasidone, zonisamide. Drug Interactions There has been a report of a patient who passed an orange rubbery precipitate in his stool the day after ingesting Tegretol suspension immediately followed by Thorazine ® solution. Subsequent testing has shown that mixing Tegretol suspension and chlorpromazine solution (both generic and brand name) as well as Tegretol suspension and liquid Mellaril ® , resulted in the occurrence of this precipitate.

=== CETYLPYRIDINIUM CHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antigingivitis, Antiplaque Purpose Anti-Gingivitis/Anti-Plaque Purpose Antigingivitis/Antiplaque
Indications: Use helps control plaque that leads to gingivitis Uses Helps reduce Plaque-associated Gingivitis Helps control gum infections Uses helps prevent and reduce plaque and gingivitis helps control plaque bacteria that contribute to the development of gingivitis and bleeding gums Uses Helps prevent and reduce plaque and gingivitis. Helps control plaque bacteria that contribute to the development of gingivitis, an early form of gum disease, and bleeding gums. Uses Helps prevent gingivitis, an early form of gum disease and bleeding gums Helps control plaque that leads to gingivitis and bleeding gums Uses Helps prevent gingivitis, an early form of gum disease, and bleeding gums Helps control plaque that leads to gingivitis and bleeding gums
Dosage: Directions adults and children 6 years & older: rinse for 30 seconds with 20 mL (4 teaspoonfuls) twice a day do not swallow children 6 years to under 12 years of age: supervise use when used after brushing, rinse mouth with water first children under 6 years of age: do not use Directions Adults and children 12 years and older : Measure 20ml (4 teaspoonful) and vigorously swish around the mouth and between teeth for 1 minute then spit out. Use undiluted, twice daily, in morning & before bedtime. Children 6 years to under 12 years : Under Adult supervision Children under 6 years : Not recommended for use Do not swallow. In case as excess quantity is swallowed accidently, contact Poison Control Center for immediate care and attention. Directions use after your normal brushing and flossing routine; rinse toothpaste from mouth prior to use adults and children 12 yrs. & older: Rinse for 30 seconds with 20 mL (4 teaspoonfuls) twice a day do not swallow supervise use in children children under 12 years of age: do not use Directions Adults and children 12 years and over Vigorously swish 20 milliliters of rinse between your teeth for 30 seconds and then spit out. Do not swallow rinse. Children 6 years to under 12 years Supervise use. Children under 6 years Do not use. Directions adults and children 6 years & older: rinse for 30 seconds with 20 mL ( 4 teaspoonfuls) twice a day do not swallow children 6 years to under 12 years of age: supervise use when used after brushing, rinse mouth with water first children under 6 years of age: do not use Directions use after your normal brushing and flossing routine, rinse toothpaste from mouth prior to use adults and children 6 yrs. & older: Rinse for 30 seconds with 20 mL (4 teaspoonfuls) twice a day do not swallow children 6 years to under 12 years of age: supervise use children under 6 years of age: do not use Directions Adults and Children 12 years and older Vigorously swish 20 milliliters (4 teaspoonfuls) of rinse between your teeth twice a day for 30 seconds and then spit out. Do not swallow the rinse. Directions use after your normal brushing and flossing routine; rinse toothpaste from mouth prior to use adults and children 6 yrs.
Warnings: Warnings for this product Warnings Stop use and ask Dentist if Gingivitis, bleeding or redness persists for more than 2 weeks. You have painful or swollen gums, pus from the gum line, loose teeth, or increasing spacing between teeth. These may be signs or symptoms of periodontitis, a serious form of gum disease. Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age. Warnings Ask a dentist if symptoms persist or condition worsens after regular use. Keep out of reach of children under 12 years of age. If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Stop use and ask a dentist if gingivitis, bleeding, or redness persists for more than 2 weeks you have painful or swollen gums, pus from the gum line, loose teeth, or increasing spacing between the teeth. Warning Ask a dentist if symptoms persist or condition worsens after regular use. Keep out of reach of children 6 years of age. Ask a dentist if symptoms persist or condition worsens after regular use. Warnings Stop use and ask a dentist if Gingivitis, bleeding, or redness persists for more than 2 weeks. You have painful or swollen gums, pus from the gum line, loose teeth, or increasing spacing between the teeth.

=== LABETALOL HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Labetalol hydrochloride tablets USP are indicated in the management of hypertension. Labetalol hydrochloride tablets USP may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents, especially thiazide and loop diuretics. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Labetalol hydrochloride tablets, USP are indicated in the management of hypertension. Labetalol hydrochloride tablets, USP may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents, especially thiazide and loop diuretics. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Labetalol HCl injection is indicated for control of blood pressure in severe hypertension. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Labetalol HCl tablets are indicated in the management of hypertension. Labetalol HCl tablets may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents, especially thiazide and loop diuretics.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED. The recommended initial dosage is 100 mg twice daily whether used alone or added to a diuretic regimen. After 2 or 3 days, using standing blood pressure as an indicator, dosage may be titrated in increments of 100 mg b.i.d.(twice daily) every 2 or 3 days. The usual maintenance dosage of labetalol hydrochloride tablets is between 200 mg and 400 mg twice daily. Since the full antihypertensive effect of labetalol hydrochloride tablets is usually seen within the first 1 to 3 hours of the initial dose or dose increment, the assurance of a lack of an exaggerated hypotensive response can be clinically established in the office setting. The antihypertensive effects of continued dosing can be measured at subsequent visits, approximately 12 hours after a dose, to determine whether further titration is necessary. Patients with severe hypertension may require from 1200 mg to 2400 mg per day, with or without thiazide diuretics. Should side effects (principally nausea or dizziness) occur with these doses administered b.i.d.(twice daily), the same total daily dose administered t.i.d. (three times daily) may improve tolerability and facilitate further titration. Titration increments should not exceed 200 mg b.i.d. (twice daily). When a diuretic is added, an additive antihypertensive effect can be expected. In some cases this may necessitate a labetalol hydrochloride tablet dosage adjustment. As with most antihypertensive drugs, optimal dosages of labetalol hydrochloride tablets are usually lower in patients also receiving a diuretic. When transferring patients from other antihypertensive drugs, labetalol hydrochloride tablets should be introduced as recommended and the dosage of the existing therapy progressively decreased. Elderly Patients As in the general patient population, labetalol therapy may be initiated at 100 mg twice daily and titrated upwards in increments of 100 mg b.i.d.(twice daily) as required for control of blood pressure. Since some elderly patients eliminate labetalol more slowly, however, adequate control of blood pressure may be achieved at a lower maintenance dosage compared to the general population. The majority of elderly patients will require between 100 mg and 200 mg b.i.d.(twice daily) After 2 or 3 days, using standing blood pressure as an indicator, dosage may be titrated in increments of 100 mg b.i.d. every 2 or 3 days. The usual maintenance dosage of labetalol HCl is between 200 and 400 mg twice daily. Since the full antihypertensive effect of labetalol HCl is usually seen within the first 1 to 3 hours of the initial dose or dose increment, the assurance of a lack of an exaggerated hypotensive response can be clinically established in the office setting. Patients with severe hypertension may require from 1,200 to 2,400 mg per day, with or without thiazide diuretics. Should side effects (principally nausea or dizziness) occur with these doses administered twice daily, the same total daily dose administered three times daily may improve tolerability and facilitate further titration. Titration increments should not exceed 200 mg twice daily. In some cases this may necessitate a labetalol HCl dosage adjustment. Elderly Patients: As in the general patient population, labetalol therapy may be initiated at 100 mg twice daily and titrated upwards in increments of 100 mg b.i.d. as required for control of blood pressure. The majority of elderly patients will require between 100 and 200 mg b.i.d. (twice daily) every 2 or 3 days. Should side effects (principally nausea or dizziness) occur with these doses administered b.i.d. (twice daily), the same total daily dose administered t.i.d. Elderly Patients As in the general patient population, labetalol therapy may be initiated at 100 mg twice daily and titrated upwards in increments of 100 mg b.i.d. (twice daily) as required for control of blood pressure. The majority of elderly patients will require between 100 mg and 200 mg b.i.d. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Labetalol hydrochloride injection is intended for intravenous use in hospitalized patients. DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED depending upon the severity of hypertension and the response of the patient during dosing. Patients should always be kept in a supine position during the period of intravenous drug administration. A substantial fall in blood pressure on standing should be expected in these patients. The patient's ability to tolerate an upright position should be established before permitting any ambulation, such as using toilet facilities. Either of two methods of administration of labetalol hydrochloride injection may be used: a) repeated intravenous injections, b) slow continuous infusion. Repeated Intravenous Injection Initially, labetalol hydrochloride injection should be given in a dose of 20 mg labetalol HCl (which corresponds to 0.25 mg/kg for an 80 kg patient) by slow intravenous injection over a 2-minute period. Immediately before the injection and at 5 and 10 minutes after injection, supine blood pressure should be measured to evaluate response. Additional injections of 40 mg or 80 mg can be given at 10 minute intervals until a desired supine blood pressure is achieved or a total of 300 mg labetalol HCl has been injected. The maximum effect usually occurs within 5 minutes of each injection. Slow Continuous Infusion Labetalol hydrochloride injection is prepared for continuous intravenous infusion by diluting the drug with commonly used intravenous fluids (see below). Examples of methods of preparing the infusion solution are: Labetalol hydrochloride injection 200 mg is added to 160 mL of a commonly used intravenous fluid such that the resultant 200 mL of solution contains 200 mg of labetalol hydrochloride, 1 mg/mL. The diluted solution should be administered at a rate of 2 mL/min to deliver 2 mg/min. Alternatively, 200 mg of labetalol hydrochloride injection is added to 250 mL of a commonly used intravenous fluid. The resultant solution will contain 200 mg of labetalol hydrochloride, approximately 2 mg/3 mL. The diluted solution should be administered at a rate of 3 mL/min to deliver approximately 2 mg/min. The rate of infusion of the diluted solution may be adjusted according to the blood pressure response, at the discretion of the physician. To facilitate a desired rate of infusion, the diluted solution can be infused using a controlled administration mechanism, e.g., graduated burette or mechanically driven infusion pump. Since the half-life of labetalol is 5 to 8 hours, steady-state blood levels (in the face of a constant rate of infusion) would not be reached during the usual infusion time period. The infusion should be continued until a satisfactory response is obtained and should then be stopped and oral labetalol hydrochloride started. The effective intravenous dose is usually in the range of 50 to 200 mg. A total dose of up to 300 mg may be required in some patients. Blood Pressure Monitoring The blood pressure should be monitored during and after completion of the infusion or intravenous injections. Rapid or excessive falls in either systolic or diastolic blood pressure during intravenous treatment should be avoided. In patients with excessive systolic hypertension, the decrease in systolic pressure should be used as indicator of effectiveness in addition to the response of the diastolic pressure. Initiation of Dosing with Labetalol Hydrochloride Tablets Subsequent oral dosing with labetalol hydrochloride tablets should begin when it has been established that the supine diastolic blood pressure has begun to rise. The recommended initial dose is 200 mg, followed in 6 to 12 hours by an additional dose of 200 or 400 mg, depending on the blood pressure response. Thereafter, inpatient titration with labetalol hydrochloride tablets may proceed as follows: Inpatient Titration Instructions Regimen Daily Dose If needed, the total daily dose may be given in three divided doses. 200 mg b.i.d. 400 mg 400 mg b.i.d. 800 mg 800 mg b.i.d. 1600 mg 1200 mg b.i.d. 2400 mg While in the hospital, the dosage of labetalol hydrochloride tablets may be increased at 1 day intervals to achieve the desired blood pressure reduction. For subsequent outpatient titration or maintenance dosing see Labetalol Hydrochloride Tablets Product Information DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION for additional recommendations. Compatibility with commonly used intravenous fluids Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Labetalol hydrochloride injection was tested for compatibility with commonly used intravenous fluids at final concentrations of 1.25 mg to 3.75 mg labetalol hydrochloride per mL of the mixture. Labetalol hydrochloride injection was found to be compatible with and stable (for 24 hours refrigerated or at room temperature) in mixtures with the following solutions: Ringers Injection, USP Lactated Ringers Injection, USP 5% Dextrose and Ringers Injection 5% Lactated Ringers and 5% Dextrose Injection 5% Dextrose Injection, USP 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP 5% Dextrose and 0.2% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP 2.5% Dextrose and 0.45% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP 5% Dextrose and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP 5% Dextrose and 0.33% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Labetalol hydrochloride injection was NOT compatible with 5% Sodium Bicarbonate Injection, USP. Care should be taken when administering alkaline drugs, including furosemide, in combination with labetalol. Compatibility should be assured prior to administering these drugs together. The usual maintenance dosage of labetalol HCl is between 200 mg and 400 mg twice daily. Patients with severe hypertension may require from 1,200 mg to 2,400 mg per day, with or without thiazide diuretics. As with most antihypertensive drugs, optimal dosages of labetalol HCl tablets are usually lower in patients also receiving a diuretic. When transferring patients from other antihypertensive drugs, labetalol HCl tablets should be introduced as recommended and the dosage of the existing therapy progressively decreased. Elderly Patients As in the general patient population, labetalol therapy may be initiated at 100 mg twice daily and titrated upwards in increments of 100 mg twice daily as required for control of blood pressure. The majority of elderly patients will require between 100 mg and 200 mg twice daily.
Warnings: WARNINGS Hepatic Injury Severe hepatocellular injury, confirmed by rechallenge in at least one case, occurs rarely with labetalol therapy. The hepatic injury is usually reversible, but hepatic necrosis and death have been reported. Injury has occurred after both short- and long-term treatment and may be slowly progressive despite minimal symptomatology. Similar hepatic events have been reported with a related research compound, dilevalol HCl, including two deaths. Dilevalol HCl is one of the four isomers of labetalol hydrochloride. Thus, for patients taking labetalol, periodic determination of suitable hepatic laboratory tests would be appropriate. Appropriate laboratory testing should be done at the first symptom or sign of liver dysfunction (e.g., pruritus, dark urine, persistent anorexia, jaundice, right upper quadrant tenderness, or unexplained "flu-like" symptoms). If the patient has laboratory evidence of liver injury or jaundice, labetalol should be stopped and not restarted. Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation is a vital component supporting circulatory function in congestive heart failure. Beta-blockade carries a potential hazard of further depressing myocardial contractility and precipitating more severe failure. Although beta-blockers should be avoided in overt congestive heart failure, if necessary, labetalol hydrochloride can be used with caution in patients with a history of heart failure who are well compensated. Congestive heart failure has been observed in patients receiving labetalol hydrochloride. Labetalol hydrochloride does not abolish the inotropic action of digitalis on heart muscle. In Patients Without a History of Cardiac Failure In patients with latent cardiac insufficiency, continued depression of the myocardium with beta-blocking agents over a period of time can, in some cases, lead to cardiac failure. At the first sign or symptom of impending cardiac failure, patients should be fully digitalized and/or be given a diuretic, and the response should be observed closely. If cardiac failure continues, despite adequate digitalization and diuretic, therapy with labetalol hydrochloride should be withdrawn (gradually, if possible). Exacerbation of Ischemic Heart Disease Following Abrupt Withdrawal Angina pectoris has not been reported upon labetalol hydrochloride discontinuation. However, hypersensitivity to catecholamines has been observed in patients withdrawn from beta-blocker therapy; exacerbation of angina and, in some cases, myocardial infarction have occurred after abrupt discontinuation of such therapy. When discontinuing chronically administered labetalol hydrochloride, particularly in patients with ischemic heart disease, the dosage should be gradually reduced over a period of 1 to 2 weeks and the patient should be carefully monitored. If angina markedly worsens or acute coronary insufficiency develops, therapy with labetalol hydrochloride should be reinstituted promptly, at least temporarily, and other measures appropriate for the management of unstable angina should be taken. Patients should be warned against interruption or discontinuation of therapy without the physician's advice. Because coronary artery disease is common and may be unrecognized, it may be prudent not to discontinue therapy with labetalol hydrochloride abruptly in patients being treated for hypertension. Nonallergic Bronchospasm (e.g., Chronic Bronchitis and Emphysema) Patients with bronchospastic disease should, in general, not receive beta-blockers. Labetalol hydrochloride may be used with caution, however, in patients who do not respond to, or cannot tolerate, other antihypertensive agents. It is prudent, if labetalol hydrochloride is used, to use the smallest effective dose, so that inhibition of endogenous or exogenous beta-agonists is minimized. Pheochromocytoma Labetalol hydrochloride has been shown to be effective in lowering blood pressure and relieving symptoms in patients with pheochromocytoma. However, paradoxical hypertensive responses have been reported in a few patients with this tumor; therefore, use caution when administering labetalol hydrochloride to patients with pheochromocytoma. Diabetes Mellitus and Hypoglycemia Beta-adrenergic blockade may prevent the appearance of premonitory signs and symptoms (e.g., tachycardia) of acute hypoglycemia. This is especially important with labile diabetics. Beta-blockade also reduces the release of insulin in response to hyperglycemia; it may therefore be necessary to adjust the dose of antidiabetic drugs. Major Surgery Do not routinely withdraw chronic beta-blocker therapy prior to surgery. The effect of labetalol hydrochloride's alpha-adrenergic activity has not been evaluated in this setting. A synergism between labetalol hydrochloride and halothane anesthesia has been shown [see Precautions, Drug Interactions] . WARNINGS Hepatic Injury: Severe hepatocellular injury, confirmed by rechallenge in at least one case, occurs rarely with labetalol therapy.The hepatic injury is usually reversible, but hepatic necrosis and death have been reported. Dilevalol HCl is one of the four isomers of labetalol HCl. Appropriate laboratory testing should be done at the first symptom/sign of liver dysfunction (e.g., pruritus, dark urine, persistent anorexia, jaundice, right upper quadrant tenderness, or unexplained "flu-like" symptoms). Cardiac Failure: Sympathetic stimulation is a vital component supporting circulatory function in congestive heart failure. Although beta-blockers should be avoided in overt congestive heart failure, if necessary, labetalol HCl can be used with caution in patients with a history of heart failure who are well compensated. Congestive heart failure has been observed in patients receiving labetalol HCl. Labetalol HCl does not abolish the inotropic action of digitalis on heart muscle. In Patients Without a History of Cardiac Failure : In patients with latent cardiac insufficiency, continued depression of the myocardium with beta-blocking agents over a period of time can, in some cases, lead to cardiac failure. If cardiac failure continues despite adequate digitalization and diuretic, therapy with labetalol hydrochloride tablets should be withdrawn (gradually, if possible). Exacerbation of Ischemic Heart Disease Following Abrupt Withdrawal: Angina pectoris has not been reported upon labetalol HCl discontinuation. When discontinuing chronically administered labetalol hydrochloride tablets, particularly in patients with ischemic heart disease, the dosage should be gradually reduced over a period of 1 to 2 weeks and the patient should be carefully monitored. If angina markedly worsens or acute coronary insufficiency develops, therapy with labetalol hydrochloride tablets should be reinstituted promptly, at least temporarily, and other measures appropriate for the management of unstable angina should be taken. Because coronary artery disease is common and may be unrecognized, it may be prudent not to discontinue therapy with labetalol hydrochloride tablets abruptly in patients being treated for hypertension. Nonallergic Bronchospasm (e.g., Chronic Bronchitis and Emphysema): Patients with bronchospastic disease should, in general, not receive beta-blockers. Labetalol hydrochloride tablets may be used with caution, however, in patients who do not respond to, or cannot tolerate, other antihypertensive agents. It is prudent, if labetalol hydrochloride tablets are used, to use the smallest effective dose, so that inhibition of endogenous or exogenous beta-agonists is minimized. Pheochromocytoma: Labetalol HCl has been shown to be effective in lowering blood pressure and relieving symptoms in patients with pheochromocytoma. However, paradoxical hypertensive responses have been reported in a few patients with this tumor; therefore, use caution when administering labetalol HCl to patients with pheochromocytoma. Diabetes Mellitus and Hypoglycemia: Beta-adrenergic blockade may prevent the appearance of premonitory signs and symptoms (e.g., tachycardia) of acute hypoglycemia. Major Surgery: Do not routinely withdraw chronic beta blocker therapy prior to surgery. The effect of labetalol 's alpha adrenergic activity has not been evaluated in this setting. A synergism between labetalol HCl and halothane anesthesia has been shown (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Appropriate laboratory testing should be done at the first symptom or sign of liver dysfunction (e.g., pruritus, dark urine, persistent anorexia, jaundice, right upper quadrant tenderness, or unexplained “flu-like” symptoms). Patients should be warned against interruption or discontinuation of therapy without the physician’s advice. The effect of labetalol hydrochloride’s alpha-adrenergic activity has not been evaluated in this setting. A synergism between labetalol hydrochloride and halothane anesthesia has been shown [see Precautions, Drug Interactions ] . Similar hepatic events have been reported with a related compound, dilevalol HCl, including two deaths. Dilevalol HCl is one of the four isomers of labetalol. Laboratory testing should also be done at the very first symptom or sign of liver dysfunction (e.g., pruritus, dark urine, persistent anorexia, jaundice, right upper quadrant tenderness, or unexplained "flu-like" symptoms). If the patient has jaundice or laboratory evidence of liver injury, labetalol should be stopped and not restarted. Although beta-blockers should be avoided in overt congestive heart failure, if necessary, labetalol can be used with caution in patients with a history of heart failure, who are well compensated. Congestive heart failure has been observed in patients receiving labetalol. Labetalol does not abolish the inotropic action of digitalis on heart muscle. In Patients without a History of Cardiac Failure In patients with latent cardiac insufficiency, continued depression of the myocardium with beta-blocking agents over a period of time can lead, in some cases, to cardiac failure. At the first sign or symptom of impending cardiac failure, patients should be fully digitalized and/or be given a diuretic, and the response observed closely. If cardiac failure continues, despite adequate digitalization and diuretic, labetalol therapy should be withdrawn (gradually if possible). Ischemic Heart Disease Angina pectoris has not been reported upon labetalol discontinuation. However, following abrupt cessation of therapy with some beta-blocking agents in patients with coronary artery disease, exacerbations of angina pectoris and, in some cases, myocardial infarction have been reported. Therefore, such patients should be cautioned against interruption of therapy without the physician's advice. Even in the absence of overt angina pectoris, when discontinuation of labetalol is planned, the patient should be carefully observed and should be advised to limit physical activity. If angina markedly worsens or acute coronary insufficiency develops, labetalol administration should be reinstituted promptly, at least temporarily, and other measures appropriate for the management of unstable angina should be taken. Nonallergic Bronchospasm (e.g., chronic bronchitis and emphysema) Since labetalol injection at the usual intravenous therapeutic doses has not been studied in patients with nonallergic bronchospastic disease, it should not be used in such patients. Pheochromocytoma Intravenous labetalol has been shown to be effective in lowering the blood pressure and relieving symptoms in patients with pheochromocytoma; higher than usual doses may be required. However, paradoxical hypertensive responses have been reported in a few patients with this tumor; therefore, use caution when administering labetalol to patients with pheochromocytoma. Major Surgery Do not routinely withdraw chronic beta blocker therapy prior to surgery. The effect of labetalol's alpha adrenergic activity has not been evaluated in this setting. Several deaths have occurred when labetalol injection was used during surgery (including when used in cases to control bleeding). A synergism between labetalol and halothane anesthesia has been shown (see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ). Rapid Decreases of Blood Pressure Caution must be observed when reducing severely elevated blood pressure. A number of adverse reactions, including cerebral infarction, optic nerve infarction, angina, and ischemic changes in the electrocardiogram, have been reported with other agents when severely elevated blood pressure was reduced over time courses of several hours to as long as 1 or 2 days. The desired blood pressure lowering should therefore be achieved over as long a period of time as is compatible with the patient's status. A synergism between labetalol hydrochloride and halothane anesthesia has been shown [see Precautions , Drug Interactions ] . If cardiac failure continues despite adequate digitalization and diuretic, therapy with labetalol HCl should be withdrawn (gradually, if possible). Exacerbation of Ischemic Heart Disease Following Abrupt Withdrawal Angina pectoris has not been reported upon labetalol HCl discontinuation. When discontinuing chronically administered labetalol HCl tablets, particularly in patients with ischemic heart disease, the dosage should be gradually reduced over a period of 1 to 2 weeks and the patient should be carefully monitored. If angina markedly worsens or acute coronary insufficiency develops, therapy with labetalol tablets should be reinstituted promptly, at least temporarily, and other measures appropriate for the management of unstable angina should be taken. Because coronary artery disease is common and may be unrecognized, it may be prudent not to discontinue therapy with labetalol HCl tablets abruptly in patients being treated for hypertension. Labetalol may be used with caution, however, in patients who do not respond to, or cannot tolerate, other antihypertensive agents. It is prudent, if labetalol HCl tablets are used, to use the smallest effective dose, so that inhibition of endogenous or exogenous beta-agonists is minimized. Pheochromocytoma Labetalol HCl has been shown to be effective in lowering blood pressure and relieving symptoms in patients with pheochromocytoma. Major Surgery Do not routinely withdraw chronic beta blocker therapy to surgery. The effect of labetalol's alpha-adrenergic activity has not been evaluated in this setting. A synergism between labetalol HCl and halothane anesthesia has been shown (see PRECAUTIONS-Drug Interactions ).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Labetalol hydrochloride is contraindicated in bronchial asthma, overt cardiac failure, greater-than-first-degree heart block, cardiogenic shock, severe bradycardia, other conditions associated with severe and prolonged hypotension, and in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any component of the product [see Warnings] . Beta-blockers, even those with apparent cardioselectivity, should not be used in patients with a history of obstructive airway disease, including asthma. CONTRAINDICATIONS Labetalol hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in bronchial asthma, overt cardiac failure, greater-than-first-degree heart block, cardiogenic shock, severe bradycardia, other conditions associated with severe and prolonged hypotension, and in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any component of the product (see WARNINGS ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Labetalol hydrochloride is contraindicated in bronchial asthma, overt cardiac failure, greater-than-first-degree heart block, cardiogenic shock, severe bradycardia, other conditions associated with severe and prolonged hypotension, and in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any component of the product [see Warnings ] . CONTRAINDICATIONS Labetalol HCl injection is contraindicated in bronchial asthma, overt cardiac failure, greater than first degree heart block, cardiogenic shock, severe bradycardia, other conditions associated with severe and prolonged hypotension, and in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any component of the product (see WARNINGS ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Labetalol HCl tablets are contraindicated in bronchial asthma, overt cardiac failure, greater-than-first degree heart block, cardiogenic shock, severe bradycardia, other conditions associated with severe and prolonged hypotension, and in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any component of the product (see WARNINGS ) .
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions In one survey, 2.3% of patients taking labetalol HCl in combination with tricyclic antidepressants experienced tremor, as compared to 0.7% reported to occur with labetalol HCl alone. The contribution of each of the treatments to this adverse reaction is unknown, but the possibility of a drug interaction cannot be excluded. Drugs possessing beta-blocking properties can blunt the bronchodilator effect of beta-receptor, agonist drugs in patients with bronchospasm; therefore, doses greater than the normal antiasthmatic dose of beta-agonist bronchodilator drugs may be required. Cimetidine has been shown to increase the bioavailability of labetalol HCl. Since this could be explained either by enhanced absorption or by an alteration of hepatic metabolism of labetalol HCl, special care should be used in establishing the dose required for blood pressure control in such patients. Synergism has been shown between halothane anesthesia and intravenously administered labetalol HCl. During controlled hypotensive anesthesia using labetalol HCl in association with halothane, high concentrations (3% or above) of halothane should not be used because the degree of hypotension will be increased and because of the possibility of a large reduction in cardiac output and an increase in central venous pressure. The anesthesiologist should be informed when a patient is receiving labetalol HCl. Labetalol HCl blunts the reflex tachycardia produced by nitroglycerin without preventing its hypotensive effect. If labetalol HCl is used with nitroglycerin in patients with angina pectoris, additional antihypertensive effects may occur. Care should be taken if labetalol is used concomitantly with calcium antagonists of the verapamil type. Both digitalis glycosides and beta-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate.Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia. Risk of Anaphylactic Reaction: While taking beta-blockers, patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge, either accidental, diagnostic, or therapeutic. Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reaction. Drug Interactions In one survey, 2.3% of patients taking labetalol hydrochloride in combination with tricyclic antidepressants experienced tremor, as compared to 0.7% reported to occur with labetalol hydrochloride alone. Drugs possessing beta-blocking properties can blunt the bronchodilator effect of beta-receptor agonist drugs in patients with bronchospasm; therefore, doses greater than the normal anti-asthmatic dose of beta-agonist bronchodilator drugs may be required. Cimetidine has been shown to increase the bioavailability of labetalol hydrochloride. Since this could be explained either by enhanced absorption or by an alteration of hepatic metabolism of labetalol hydrochloride, special care should be used in establishing the dose required for blood pressure control in such patients. Synergism has been shown between halothane anesthesia and intravenously administered labetalol hydrochloride. During controlled hypotensive anesthesia using labetalol hydrochloride in association with halothane, high concentrations (3% or above) of halothane should not be used because the degree of hypotension will be increased and because of the possibility of a large reduction in cardiac output and an increase in central venous pressure. The anesthesiologist should be informed when a patient is receiving labetalol hydrochloride. Labetalol hydrochloride blunts the reflex tachycardia produced by nitroglycerin without preventing its hypotensive effect. If labetalol hydrochloride is used with nitroglycerin in patients with angina pectoris, additional antihypertensive effects may occur. Both digitalis glycosides and beta-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia. Risk of Anaphylactic Reaction While taking beta-blockers, patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge, either accidental, diagnostic, or therapeutic. Drug Interactions In one survey, 2.3% of patients taking labetalol HCl in combination with tricyclic antidepressants experienced tremor as compared to 0.7% reported to occur with labetalol HCl alone. The contribution of each of the treatments to this adverse reaction is unknown but the possibility of a drug interaction cannot be excluded. Drugs possessing beta-blocking properties can blunt the bronchodilator effect of beta-receptor agonist drugs in patients with bronchospasm; therefore, doses greater than the normal antiasthmatic dose of beta-agonist bronchodilator drugs may be required.

=== DOXYLAMINE SUCCINATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Nighttime sleep-aid Purpose Pain reliever/fever reducer Cough suppressant Antihistamine Purposes Pain reliever/fever reducer Cough suppressant Antihistamine Purpose Acetaminophen ........................Pain reliever/Fever reducer Dextromethorphan HBr .............Cough suppressant Doxylamine succinate ............... Antihistamine Uses temporarily relieves common cold/flu symptoms: cough due to minor throat & bronchial irritation sore throat headache minor aches & pains fever runny nose and sneezing Active Ingredients (in each 30 mL) Purpose Acetaminophen 650 mg……………………………………………………………………………………………………………….……….. Pain reliever/fever reducer Dextromethorphan HBr 30 mg…………………………………………………………………………………………………….….………….……. Cough suppressant Doxylamine succinate 12.5 mg………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….……. Purpose Pain reliever/fever reducer Cough suppressant Antihistamine Nasal decongestant Pain reliever/fever reducer Cough Suppressant Antihistamine Purpose Pain reliever/fever reducer Cough suppressant
Indications: Use helps to reduce difficulty in falling asleep Uses temporarily relieves these common cold/flu symptoms: minor aches and pains headache sore throat fever runny nose and sneezing cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation Uses temporarily relieves these common cold/flu symptoms minor aches and pains headache sore throat fever runny nose and sneezing cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation Uses temporarily relieves common cold/flu symptoms: ■ cough due to minor throat & bronchial irritation ■ sore throat ■ headache ■ minor aches and pain ■ fever ■ runny nose and sneezing Uses temporarily relieves common cold/flu symptoms: cough due to minor throat & bronchial irritation sore throat headache minor aches & pains fever runny nose and sneezing Uses temporarily relieves common cold/flu symptoms: • sinus congestion and pressure • nasal congestion • minor aches and pains • headache • runny nose and sneezing • sore throat • cough to help you sleep • fever • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation • reduces swelling of nasal passages • promotes nasal and/or sinus drainage • temporarily restores freer breathing through the nose Uses temporarily relieves cold/flu symptoms: sore throat headache minor aches and pain fever runny nose and sneezing cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation Uses temporarily relieves common cold/flu symptoms: • cough due to minor throat & bronchial irritation • sore throat • headache • minor aches & pains • fever Uses temporarily relieves common cold/flu symptoms: cough due to minor throat & bronchial irritation sore throat headache minor aches & pains fever runny nose & sneezing
Dosage: Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over: take one tablet 30 minutes before going to bed; take once daily or as directed by a doctor children under 12 years of age: do not use Directions adults and children 12 years and over: take one tablet 30 minutes before going to bed; take once daily or as directed by a doctor children under 12 years: do not use Directions do not take more than directed (see overdose warning) do not take more than 4 doses in any 24-hours period measure only with dosing cup provided. Do not use any other dosing device. mL= milliliter keep dosing cup with product adults and children 12 years and over: 30 mL every 6 hours children under 12 years of age: do not use When using other Day Time or Night Time products, carefully read each label to insure correct dosing Directions do not take more than directed (see Overdose warning) do not take more than 4 doses in any 24-hour period measure only with dosing cup provided. mL = milliliter keep dosing cup with product adults and children 12 years and over: 30 mL every 6 hours children under 12 years of age: do not use when using other Daytime or Nighttime products, carefully read each label to ensure correct dosing Directions ■ take only as directed (see Warning) ■ do not exceed 4 doses per 24 hours adults & children 12 yrs & over 2 soft gels with water every 6 hours children 4 to under 12 years: ask a doctor children under 4 years: do not use ■ When using other Daytime or Nighttime products, carefully read each label to ensure correct dosing. Directions take only as directed only use the dose cup provided do not exceed 4 doses per 24 hrs adults & children 12 yrs & over 30 mL every 6 hrs children 4 to under 12 yrs ask a doctor children under 4 yrs do not use Directions • take only as directed – see Overdose warning • only use the dose cup provided • do not exceed 4 doses per 24 hrs adults & children 12 yrs & over 30 mL every 4 hrs children 4 to under 12 yrs ask a doctor children under 4 yrs do not use Other information • each 30 mL contains: sodium 41 mg • store at 20-25°C (68-77°F) take only as recommended- see Overdose warning use only dosing cup provided keep dosing cup provided with the product do not exceed 4 doses per 24 hours if taking Day Time during the day and Night Time at night, limit the total to 4 doses per 24 hours TBSP=tablespoon mL=mililiter adults & children 12 years and over 30 mL (2 TBSP) every 6 hours children 4 to under 12 years ask a doctor children under 4 years do not use Directions • take only as directed • do not exceed 8 LiquiCaps per 24 hrs adults & children 12 yrs & over 2 LiquiCaps with water every 4 hrs children 4 to under 12 yrs ask a doctor children under 4 yrs do not use
Warnings: Warnings Do not use in children under 12 years of age with any other product containing doxylamine unless you have time for a full night’s sleep Ask a doctor before use if you have a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis glaucoma trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or any other sleep-aid tranquilizers any other antihistamines any other drugs When using this product avoid alcoholic beverages do not drive a motor vehicle or operate machinery take only at bedtime Stop use and ask a doctor if sleeplessness persists continuously for more than two weeks. Insomnia may be a symptom of serious underlying medical illness. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Do not use in children under 12 years of age with any other product containing doxylamine unless you have time for a full night’s sleep Ask a doctor before use if you have a breathing problem such as asthma, emphysema or chronic bronchitis difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland glaucoma Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or any other sleep-aid tranquilizers any other antihistamines any other drugs When using this product avoid alcoholic beverages do not drive a motor vehicle or operate machinery take only at bedtime Stop use and ask a doctor if sleeplessness persists continuously for more than two weeks. Insomnia may be a symptom of a serious underlying medical illness. Warnings Liver warning: This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 4,000 mg in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash. If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away Sore throat warning: If sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or is followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product. with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or non-prescription). If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen, ask a doctor or pharmacist Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease glaucoma cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) a breathing problem or chronic cough that lasts or as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis,or emphysema trouble urinating due to enlarged prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers the blood thinning drug warfarin When using this product excitability may occur, especially in children marked drowsiness may occur avoid alcoholic drinks be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery alcohol, sedatives and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness Stop use and ask a doctor if pain or cough gets worse or lasts more than 7 days new symptoms occur fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts. These could be signs of a serious condition. Overdose warning : Taking more than the recommended dose (overdose) may cause liver damage. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. Severe liver damage may occur if you take: more than 4000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks everyday while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash if a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Sore throat warning: If sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or is followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen, ask a doctor or pharmacist Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease glaucoma cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) a breathing problem or chronic cough that lasts or as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema trouble urinating due to enlarged prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers the blood thinning drug warfarin When using this product excitability may occur, especially in children marked drowsiness may occur avoid alcoholic drinks be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery alcohol, sedatives and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness Stop use and ask a doctor if pain or cough gets worse or last more than 7 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts. These could be a signs of a serious conditions. Warnings Liver warning : This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take ■ more than 4doses in 24 hrs, which is the maximum daily amount for this product ■ with other drugs containing acetaminophen ■ 3 or more alcoholic drinks daily while using this product. Allergy Alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include ■ skin reddening ■ blisters ■ rash. If skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Sore throat warning : If sore throat is severe, lasts for more than 2 days, occurs with or is followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 4 doses in 24 hrs, which is the maximum daily amount for this product with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy Alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash If skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away Sore throat warning: If sore throat is severe, persist for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. Severe liver damage may occur if you take • more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours • with other drugs containing acetaminophen • 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: • skin reddening • blisters • rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Sore throat warning: If sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. Do not use • with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen, ask a doctor or pharmacist. • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have • liver disease • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • glaucoma • cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) • a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, or emphysema • a sodium-restricted diet Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • taking sedatives or tranquilizers • taking the blood thinning drug warfarin When using this product • do not use more than directed • excitability may occur, especially in children • marked drowsiness may occur • avoid alcoholic drinks • be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery • alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness Stop use and ask a doctor if • you get nervous, dizzy or sleepless • pain, nasal congestion, or cough gets worse or lasts more than 7 days • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • redness or swelling is present • new symptoms occur • cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts. Overdose warning: In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Sever liver damage may occur if you take more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause sever skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash If skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Sore throat warning: If sore throat is sever, persist for more than two days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 8 Liquicaps in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount for this product with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy Alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away Sore throat warning: If sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly.

=== PHENYLEPHRINE HCL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purposes Pain reliever/fever reducer Cough suppressant Nasal decongestant Anorectal/Hemorrhoidal Purpose Pain reliever/fever reducer Cough suppressant Nasal decongestant Active ingredients (in each 20 mL) Purposes Dextromethorphan HBr 20 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 400 mg Expectorant Phenylephrine HCl 10 mg Nasal decongestant Purpose Nasal decongestant Purpose Pain reliever/fever reducer Expectorant Nasal decongestant Purpose Pain reliever/fever reducer Cough suppressant Antihistamine Nasal decongestant Purpose Antihistamine Cough suppressant Purpose Cough suppressant Expectorant Nasal decongestant Purpose Purpose Pain reliever/fever reducer Expectorant Nasal decongestant
Indications: Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to a cold minor aches and pains headache nasal and sinus congestion sore throat cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation temporarily reduces fever For the temporary relief of pain, soreness, and burning. Helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids. Temporarily shrinks hemorrhoidal tissue. Temporarily provides a coating for the relief of anorectal discomforts. Temporarily protects the inflamed, irritated anorectal surface to help make bowel movements less painful. Uses • temporarily relieves common cold/flu symptoms: • nasal congestion • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation • sore throat • headache • minor aches and pains • fever Uses helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive temporarily relieves: cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants the intensity of coughing the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep nasal congestion due to a cold Uses temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to the common cold, hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms associated with hay fever or other respiratory allergies, and the common cold: headache, nasal congestion, minor aches and pains, sinus congestion and pressure helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to make coughs more productive temporarily reduces fever Uses temporarily relieves common cold/flu symptoms: • sinus congestion and pressure • nasal congestion • minor aches and pains • headache • runny nose and sneezing • sore throat • cough to help you sleep • fever • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation • reduces swelling of nasal passages • promotes nasal and/or sinus drainage • temporarily restores freer breathing through the nose Uses temporarily relieves common cold symptoms: cough due to minor throat & bronchial irritation sneezing runny nose Uses temporarily relieves common cold symptoms: nasal congestion sinus congestion & pressure cough due to minor throat & bronchial irritation cough to help you sleep reduces swelling of nasal passages temporarily restores freer breathing through the nose promotes nasal and/or sinus drainage helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive. Uses Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms associated with hay fever or other respiratory allergies, and the common cold: headache nasal congestion minor aches and pains sinus congestion and pressure helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to make coughs more productive temporarily reduces fever
Dosage: Directions do not take more than directed (see overdose warning ) do not take more than 6 doses (180 mL) in any 24-hour period measure only with dosing cup provided. Do not use any other dosing device. mL= milliliter keep dosing cup with product adults and children 12 years and over 30 mL every 4 hours chlldren under 12 years of age: do not use Adults: when practical, cleanse area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly. Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or soft cloth before applying. Adults and children 12 years and older: apply externally to the affected area up to 4 times a day. Children under 12 years of age: consult a doctor. Directions • take only as directed – see Overdose warning • only use the dose cup provided • do not exceed 4 doses per 24 hrs adults & children 12 yrs & over 30 mL every 4 hrs children 6 to under 12 yrs 15 mL every 4 hrs children 4 to under 6 yrs ask a doctor children under 4 yrs do not use Directions do not take more than 6 doses in any 24-hour period measure only with dosing cup provided do not use dosing cup with other products dose as follows or as directed by a doctor mL = milliliter adults and children 12 years of age and older: 20 mL in dosing cup provided every 4 hours. children under 12 years of age: Do not use. Apply externally to the affected area up to 4 times daily, especially at night, in the morning or after each bowel movement. For intrarectal use: attach applicator to tube. Lubricate well, then gently insert applicator into the rectum. Thoroughly cleanse applicator after use with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly. Directions adults and children 12 years and over: take 1 tablet every 4 hours. Do not take more than 6 tablets in 24 hours. children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions do not take more than directed adults and children 12 years and over: take 2 caplets every 4 hours; swallow whole - do not crush, chew, or dissolve; do not take more than 10 caplets in 24 hours children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions • take only as directed – see Overdose warning • only use the dose cup provided • do not exceed 4 doses per 24 hrs adults & children 12 yrs & over 30 mL every 4 hrs children 4 to under 12 yrs ask a doctor children under 4 yrs do not use Other information • each 30 mL contains: sodium 41 mg • store at 20-25°C (68-77°F) Directions • take only as directed • only use the dose cup provided • do not exceed 4 doses per 24 hrs adults & children 12 yrs & over 30 mL every 6 hrs children 6 to under 12 yrs 15 mL every 6 hrs children 4 to under 6 yrs do not use unless directed by a doctor children under 4 yrs do not use Directions • take only as directed • only use the dose cup provided • do not exceed 4 doses per 24 hrs adults & children 12 yrs & over 30 mL every 4 hrs children 6 to under 12 yrs 15 mL every 4 hrs children 4 to under 6 yrs ask a doctor children under 4 yrs do not use Directions Directions do not take more than directed adults and children 12 years and over take 2 caplets every 4 hours swallow whole - do not crush, chew, or dissolve do not take more than 10 caplets in 24 hours children under 12 years: ask a doctor
Warnings: Warnings Liver warning: This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take: more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may inclide: skin reddening blisters rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Sore throat warning: If sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease) or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product. with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or non-prescription). If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen, ask a doctor or pharmacist. Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease heart disease diabetes high blood pressure thyroid disease trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, or emphysema Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin. When using this product, do not exceed recommended dosage Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occur pain, cough, or nasal congestion gets worse or lasts more than 7 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur cough comes back or occurs with a rash or headache that lasts. These could be signs of a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. Overdose warning: Taking more than the recommended dose (overdose) may cause liver damage. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. For external use only. Ask a doctor before use if you have: heart disease, high blood pressure, thyroid disease, diabetes, or difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland. Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug for high blood pressure or depression. When using this product : avoid contact with eyes, do not exceed recommended dosage unless directed by a doctor, do not put this product into rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator. Stop use and ask a doctor if : rectal bleeding occurs, condition worsens or does not improve within seven (7) days, allergic reaction occurs to ingredients in this product, symptom being treated does not subside or if redness, irritation, swelling, pain or other symptoms develop or increase, symptoms clear up and return within a few days. Severe liver damage may occur if • adult takes more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours • child takes more than 5 doses in 24 hours • taken with other drugs containing acetaminophen • adult has 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: • skin reddening • blisters • rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Do not use • with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have • liver disease • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, or emphysema Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • you get nervous, dizzy or sleepless • pain, nasal congestion or cough gets worse or lasts more than 5 days (children) or 7 days (adults) • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • redness or swelling is present • new symptoms occur • cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts. Overdose warning: In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease high blood pressure thyroid disease diabetes trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis or emphysema cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness or sleeplessness occur symptoms do not get better within 7 days or occur with fever cough comes back, or occurs with rash or persistent headache. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222) For external and/or intrarectal use. When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage unless directed by a doctor. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve within seven (7) days, bleeding occurs, an allergic reaction develops, the symptom being treated does not subside or if redness, irritation, swelling, pain or other symptoms develop or increase. Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease diabetes thyroid disease high blood pressure difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage. Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occur symptoms do not improve within 7 days or occur with fever If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: blisters, rash, skin reddening. If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Severe liver damage may occur if you take • more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours • with other drugs containing acetaminophen • 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have • liver disease • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • glaucoma • cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) • a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, or emphysema • a sodium-restricted diet Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • taking sedatives or tranquilizers • taking the blood thinning drug warfarin When using this product • do not use more than directed • excitability may occur, especially in children • marked drowsiness may occur • avoid alcoholic drinks • be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery • alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness Stop use and ask a doctor if • you get nervous, dizzy or sleepless • pain, nasal congestion, or cough gets worse or lasts more than 7 days • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • redness or swelling is present • new symptoms occur • cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts. Warnings Do not use • If you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. • to make a child sleepy Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. Warnings ​Warnings Liver warning Liver warning: This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: blisters rash skin reddening If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Do not use Do not use with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have Ask a doctor before use if you have cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema heart disease thyroid disease diabetes liver disease high blood pressure difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin. ​When using this product When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage. Stop use and ask a doctor if Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occur pain, nasal congestion, or cough gets worse or lasts more than 7 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts. If pregnant or breast-feeding If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of accidental overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Prompt medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms.

=== NYSTATIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nyamyc® (Nystatin Topical Powder, USP) is indicated in the treatment of cutaneous or mucocutaneous mycotic infections caused by Candida albicans and other susceptible Candida species. Nyamyc® (Nystatin Topical Powder, USP) is not indicated for systemic, oral, intravaginal or ophthalmic use. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin Oral Suspension is indicated for the treatment of candidiasis in the oral cavity. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin Tablets are intended for the treatment of non-esophageal mucus membrane gastrointestinal candidiasis. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin topical powder is indicated in the treatment of cutaneous or mucocutaneous mycotic infections caused by Candida albicans and other susceptible Candida species . Nystatin topical powder is not indicated for systemic, oral, intravaginal or ophthalmic use. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin and Triamcinolone Acetonide Cream USP is indicated for the treatment of cutaneous candidiasis; it has been demonstrated that the nystatin-steroid combination provides greater benefit than the nystatin component alone during the first few days of treatment. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin oral suspension is indicated for the treatment of infections of the oral cavity caused by Candida albicans. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin Topical Powder is indicated in the treatment of cutaneous or mucocutaneous mycotic infections caused by Candida albicans and other susceptible Candida species. This preparation is not indicated for systemic, oral, intravaginal or ophthalmic use. INDICATIONS AND USAGE KLAYESTA is indicated in the treatment of cutaneous or mucocutaneous mycotic infections caused by Candida albicans and other susceptible Candida species. KLAYESTA is not indicated for systemic, oral, intravaginal or ophthalmic use.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Very moist lesions are best treated with the topical dusting powder. Adults and Pediatric Patients (Neonates and Older) Apply to candidal lesions two or three times daily until healing is complete. For fungal infection of the feet caused by Candida species, the powder should be dusted on the feet, as well as, in all foot wear. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION INFANTS 2 mL (200,000 units) four times daily (in infants and young children, use dropper to place one-half of dose in each side of mouth and avoid feeding for 5 to 10 minutes). NOTE: Limited clinical studies in premature and low birth weight infants indicate that 1 mL four times daily is effective. CHILDREN AND ADULTS 4 to 6 mL (400,000 to 600,000 units) four times daily (one-half of dose in each side of mouth). The preparation should be retained in the mouth as long as possible before swallowing. Continue treatment for at least 48 hours after perioral symptoms have disappeared and cultures demonstrate eradication of Candida albicans . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual therapeutic dosage is one to two tablets (500,000 to 1,000,000 units nystatin) three times daily. Treatment should generally be continued for at least 48 hours after clinical cure to prevent relapse. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION INFANTS: 2 mL (200,000 units) four times daily (in infants and young children, use dropper to place one-half of dose in each side of mouth and avoid feeding for 5 to 10 minutes). CHILDREN AND ADULTS: 4 to 6 mL (400,000 to 600,000 units) four times daily (one-half of dose in each side of mouth). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Nystatin and Triamcinolone Acetonide Cream USP is usually applied to the affected areas twice daily in the morning and evening by gently and thoroughly massaging the preparation into the skin. The cream should be discontinued if symptoms persist after 25 days of therapy (see PRECAUTIONS , Laboratory Tests). Nystatin and Triamcinolone Acetonide Cream USP should not be used with occlusive dressings. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Infants: 2 mL (200,000 units) four times daily (1 mL in each side of mouth). Pediatric patients and adults: 4 to 6 mL (400,000 to 600,000 units) four times daily (one-half of dose in each side of mouth). NOTE: Limited clinical studies in neonates, including premature and low-birth weight neonates, indicate that 1 mL (100,000 units) four times daily is effective. Local treatment should be continued at least 48 hours after perioral symptoms have disappeared and/or cultures returned to normal. It is recommended that the drug be retained in the mouth as long as possible before swallowing. Adults and Pediatric Patients (Neonates and Older): Apply to candidal lesions two or three times daily until healing is complete. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Nystatin and triamcinolone acetonide cream is usually applied to the affected areas twice daily in the morning and evening by gently and thoroughly massaging the preparation into the skin. The cream should be discontinued if symptoms persist after 25 days of therapy (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests ). Nystatin and triamcinolone acetonide cream should not be used with occlusive dressings.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Nyamyc® (Nystatin Topical Powder, USP) is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components. CONTRAINDICATIONS The preparation is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components. CONTRAINDICATIONS Nystatin Tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of their components. CONTRAINDICATIONS Nystatin topical powder is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components. CONTRAINDICATIONS These preparations are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of their components. CONTRAINDICATIONS Nystatin is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to nystatin or any of the suspension components. CONTRAINDICATIONS KLAYESTA is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components.

=== TIZANIDINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tizanidine hydrochloride is indicated for the management of spasticity. Because of the short duration of therapeutic effect, treatment with tizanidine hydrochloride should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )]. Tizanidine hydrochloride is a central alpha-2-adrenergic agonist indicated for the management of spasticity. Because of the short duration of therapeutic effect, treatment with tizanidine hydrochloride capsules should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tizanidine is indicated for the treatment of spasticity in adults. Tizanidine is a central alpha-2-adrenergic agonist indicated for the treatment of spasticity. (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tizanidine Tablets, USP is a central alpha-2-adrenergic agonist indicated for the management of spasticity. Because of the short duration of therapeutic effect, treatment with Tizanidine Tablets, USP should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important [see Dosage and Administration(2.1) ]. Tizanidine Tablets, USP is a central alpha-2-adrenergic agonist indicated for the management of spasticity. Because of the short duration of therapeutic effect, treatment with Tizanidine Tablets, USP should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important [ see Dosage and Administration (1) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Zanaflex is indicated for the management of spasticity. Because of the short duration of therapeutic effect, treatment with Zanaflex should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )] . Zanaflex is a central alpha-2-adrenergic agonist indicated for the management of spasticity. Because of the short duration of therapeutic effect, treatment with Zanaflex should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important. INDICATIONS & USAGE SECTION Tizanidine tablet is a short-acting drug for the management of spasticity. Because of the short duration of effect, treatment with tizanidine should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tizanidine capsules are indicated for the treatment of spasticity in adults. Tizanidine capsules are a central alpha-2-adrenergic agonist indicated for the treatment of spasticity. Because of the short duration of therapeutic effect, treatment with Tizanidine Tablets, USP should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ]. Because of the short duration of therapeutic effect, treatment with Tizanidine Tablets, USP should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important [see Dosage and Administration (1) ]. Tizanidine hydrochloride is indicated for the management of spasticity. Because of the short duration of therapeutic effect, treatment with tizanidine hydrochloride capsules should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.1)]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tizanidine capsules are a central alpha-2-adrenergic agonist indicated for the treatment of spasticity. ( 1 ) Tizanidine capsules are indicated for the treatment of spasticity in adults.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended starting dose: 2 mg; dose can be repeated at 6- to 8-hour intervals, up to a maximum of 3 doses in 24 hours ( 2.1 ) Dosage can be increased by 2 mg to 4 mg per dose, with 1 to 4 days between increases; total daily dose should not exceed 36 mg ( 2.1 ) Tizanidine pharmacokinetics differs between tablets and capsules, and when taken with or without food. These differences could result in a change in tolerability and control of symptoms ( 2.1 , 12.3 ) To discontinue tizanidine hydrochloride capsules, decrease dose slowly to minimize the risk of withdrawal and rebound hypertension, tachycardia, and hypertonia ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Dosing Information Tizanidine hydrochloride capsules may be prescribed with or without food. Once the formulation has been selected and the decision to take with or without food has been made, this regimen should not be altered. Food has complex effects on tizanidine pharmacokinetics, which differ with the different formulations. Tizanidine hydrochloride capsules and tizanidine tablets are bioequivalent to each other under fasting conditions (more than 3 hours after a meal), but not under fed conditions (within 30 minutes of a meal). These pharmacokinetic differences may result in clinically significant differences when switching administration of tablet and capsules and when switching administration between the fed or fasted state. These changes may result in increased adverse events, or delayed or more rapid onset of activity, depending upon the nature of the switch. For this reason, the prescriber should be thoroughly familiar with the changes in kinetics associated with these different conditions [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. The recommended starting dose is 2 mg. Because the effect of tizanidine hydrochloride capsule peaks at approximately 1 to 2 hours post-dose and dissipates between 3 to 6 hours post-dose, treatment can be repeated at 6 to 8 hour intervals, as needed, to a maximum of three doses in 24 hours. Dosage can be gradually increased by 2 mg to 4 mg at each dose, with 1 to 4 days between dosage increases, until a satisfactory reduction of muscle tone is achieved. The total daily dose should not exceed 36 mg. Single doses greater than 16 mg have not been studied. 2.2 Dosing in Patients with Renal Impairment Tizanidine hydrochloride capsules should be used with caution in patients with renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance < 25 mL/min), as clearance is reduced by more than 50%. In these patients, during titration, the individual doses should be reduced. If higher doses are required, individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )]. 2.3 Dosing in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Tizanidine hydrochloride capsules should be used with caution in patients with any hepatic impairment. If higher doses are required, individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased. Monitoring of aminotransferase levels is recommended for baseline and 1 month after maximum dose is achieved, or if hepatic injury is suspected [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )]. 2.4 Drug Discontinuation If therapy needs to be discontinued, particularly in patients who have been receiving high doses (20 mg to 36 mg daily) for long periods (9 weeks or more) or who maybe on concomitant treatment with narcotics, the dose should be decreased slowly (2 mg to 4 mg per day) to minimize the risk of withdrawal and rebound hypertension, tachycardia, and hypertonia [see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Monitoring of aminotransferase levels is recommended at baseline and 1 month after maximum dose is achieved. ( 2.1 ) Recommended starting dose: 2 mg by mouth every 6 to 8 hours, as needed, up to a maximum of 3 doses in 24 hours ( 2.2 ) Dosage can be increased by 2 mg to 4 mg per dose every 1 to 4 days; maximum total daily dosage is 36 mg ( 2.2 ) Tizanidine pharmacokinetics differs between tablets and capsules, and when taken with or without food. These differences could result in a change in tolerability and control of symptoms. Consistent administration with respect to food is recommended. If substitution between dosage forms is necessary, take into consideration these pharmacokinetic differences. ( 2.2 , 2.6 , 12.3 ) Patients with renal impairment (creatinine clearance <25 mL/min) or hepatic impairment: use lower individual doses during titration.If higher doses are required, individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased. ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) To discontinue tizanidine tablets, decrease dose slowly to minimize the risk of withdrawal adverse reactions ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Recommended Evaluation and Testing Before and After Initiating Tizanidine Monitoring of aminotransferase levels is recommended at baseline and 1 month after maximum dose is achieved [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. 2.2 Recommended Dosage The recommended starting dose is 2 mg by mouth every 6 to 8 hours, as needed, to a maximum of three doses in 24 hours. Dosage can be gradually increased every 1 to 4 days by 2 mg to 4 mg at each dose based on clinical response and tolerability. The maximum total daily dosage is 36 mg. There are pharmacokinetic differences when administering tizanidine between the fed or fasted state [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Tizanidine may be taken with or without food; however, consistent administration with respect to food is recommended to reduce variability in tizanidine plasma exposure. Because of the short duration of therapeutic effect, treatment with tizanidine should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment I n patients with creatinine clearance < 25 mL/min, use lower individual doses during titration. If higher doses are required, the individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.4 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment I n patients with hepatic impairment, use lower individual doses during titration. If higher doses are required, individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2.5 Discontinuation of Tizanidine Tablets When discontinuing tizanidine tablets, particularly in patients who have been receiving high doses for long periods or who may be on concomitant treatment with narcotics, decrease the dosage by 2 mg to 4 mg per day to minimize the risk of withdrawal adverse reactions [see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )]. 2.6 Switching Between With/Without Food and Different Tizanidine Dosage Forms There are pharmacokinetic differences when: 1) switching between administration of tizanidine tablets with or without food 2) switching between dosage forms if being administered with food. If these situations occur, monitor patients for therapeutic effect or adverse reactions [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended starting dose: 2 mg; dose can be repeated at 6 to 8 hour intervals, up to a maximum of 3 doses in 24 hours (2.1) • Dosage can be increased by 2 mg to 4 mg per dose, with 1 to 4 days between increases; total daily dose should not exceed 36 mg (2.1) • Tizanidine pharmacokinetics differs between tablets and capsules, and when taken with or without food. These differences could result in a change in tolerability and control of symptoms ( 2.1 , 12.3 ) • To discontinue Tizanidine Tablets, USP, decrease dose slowly to minimize the risk of withdrawal and rebound hypertension, tachycardia, and hypertonia ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Dosing Information Tizanidine Tablets, USP tablets may be prescribed with or without food. Tizanidine Capsules and Tizanidine Tablets, USP are bioequivalent to each other under fasting conditions (more than 3 hours after a meal), but not under fed conditions (within 30 minutes of a meal). For this reason, the prescriber should be thoroughly familiar with the changes in kinetics associated with these different conditions [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Because the effect of Tizanidine Tablets, USP peaks at approximately 1 to 2 hours post-dose and dissipates between 3 to 6 hours post-dose, treatment can be repeated at 6 to 8 hour intervals, as needed, to a maximum of three doses in 24 hours. 2.2 Dosing in Patients with Renal Impairment Tizanidine Tablets, USP should be used with caution in patients with renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance < 25 mL/min), as clearance is reduced by more than 50%. If higher doses are required, individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 2.3 Dosing in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Tizanidine Tablets, USP should be used with caution in patients with any hepatic impairment. Monitoring of aminotransferase levels is recommended for baseline and 1 month after maximum dose is achieved, or if hepatic injury is suspected. [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] 2.4 Drug Discontinuation If therapy needs to be discontinued, particularly in patients who have been receiving high doses (20 mg to 36 mg daily) for long periods (9 weeks or more) or who may be on concomitant treatment with narcotics, the dose should be decreased slowly (2 mg to 4 mg per day) to minimize the risk of withdrawal and rebound hypertension, tachycardia, and hypertonia [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended starting dose: 2 mg; dose can be repeated at 6 to 8 hour intervals, up to a maximum of 3 doses in 24 hours ( 2.1 ) Dosage can be increased by 2 mg to 4 mg per dose, with 1 to 4 days between increases; total daily dose should not exceed 36 mg ( 2.1 ) Tizanidine pharmacokinetics differs between tablets and capsules, and when taken with or without food. These differences could result in a change in tolerability and control of symptoms ( 2.1 , 12.3 ) To discontinue Zanaflex, decrease dose slowly to minimize the risk of withdrawal and rebound hypertension, tachycardia, and hypertonia ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Dosing Information Zanaflex Capsules ® or Zanaflex ® tablets may be prescribed with or without food. Zanaflex Capsules and Zanaflex tablets are bioequivalent to each other under fasting conditions (more than 3 hours after a meal), but not under fed conditions (within 30 minutes of a meal). For this reason, the prescriber should be thoroughly familiar with the changes in kinetics associated with these different conditions [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Because the effect of Zanaflex peaks at approximately 1 to 2 hours post-dose and dissipates between 3 to 6 hours post-dose, treatment can be repeated at 6 to 8 hour intervals, as needed, to a maximum of three doses in 24 hours. 2.2 Dosing in Patients with Renal Impairment Zanaflex should be used with caution in patients with renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance < 25 mL/min), as clearance is reduced by more than 50%. If higher doses are required, individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . 2.3 Dosing in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Zanaflex should be used with caution in patients with any hepatic impairment. Monitoring of aminotransferase levels is recommended for baseline and 1 month after maximum dose is achieved, or if hepatic injury is suspected [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )] . 2.4 Drug Discontinuation If therapy needs to be discontinued, particularly in patients who have been receiving high doses (20 mg to 36 mg daily) for long periods (9 weeks or more) or who may be on concomitant treatment with narcotics, the dose should be decreased slowly (2 mg to 4 mg per day) to minimize the risk of withdrawal and rebound hypertension, tachycardia, and hypertonia [see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )] . DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION A single dose of 8 mg of tizanidine reduces muscle tone in patients with spasticity for a period of several hours. The effect peaks at approximately 1 to 2 hours and dissipates between 3 to 6 hours. Effects are dose-related. Although single doses of less than 8 mg have not been demonstrated to be effective in controlled clinical studies, the dose-related nature of tizanidine's common adverse events make it prudent to begin treatment with single oral doses of 4 mg. Increase the dose gradually (2 to 4 mg steps) to optimum effect (satisfactory reduction of muscle tone at a tolerated dose). The dose can be repeated at 6 to 8 hour intervals, as needed, to a maximum of three doses in 24 hours. Experience with single doses exceeding 8 mg and daily doses exceeding 24 mg is limited. There is essentially no experience with repeated, single, daytime doses greater than 12 mg or total daily doses greater than 36 mg (see WARNINGS). These pharmacokinetic differences may result in clinically significant differences when [1] switching administration of the tablet between the fed or fasted state, [2] switching administration of the capsule between the fed or fasted state, [3] switching between the tablet and capsule in the fed state, or [4] switching between the intact capsule and sprinkling the contents of the capsule on applesauce. These changes may result in increased adverse events or delayed/more rapid onset of activity, depending upon the nature of the switch. For this reason, the prescriber should be thoroughly familiar with the changes in kinetics associated with these different conditions (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacokinetics). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Monitoring of aminotransferase levels is recommended at baseline and 1 month after maximum dose is achieved. ( 2.1 ) • Recommended starting dose: 2 mg by mouth every 6 to 8 hours, as needed, up to a maximum of 3 doses in 24 hours ( 2.2 ) • Dosage can be increased by 2 mg to 4 mg per dose every 1 to 4 days; maximum total daily dosage is 36 mg ( 2.2 ) • Tizanidine pharmacokinetics differs between tablets and capsules, and when taken with or without food. ( 2.2 , 2.6 , 12.3 ) • Patients with renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 25 mL/min) or hepatic impairment: use lower individual doses during titration. ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) • To discontinue tizanidine capsules, decrease dose slowly to minimize the risk of withdrawal adverse reactions ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Recommended Evaluation and Testing Before and After Initiating Tizanidine Capsules Monitoring of aminotransferase levels is recommended at baseline and 1 month after maximum dose is achieved [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. There are pharmacokinetic differences when administering tizanidine capsule between the fed or fasted state [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Tizanidine capsules may be taken with or without food; however, consistent administration with respect to food is recommended to reduce variability in tizanidine plasma exposure. Because of the short duration of therapeutic effect, treatment with tizanidine capsules should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with creatinine clearance less than 25 mL/min, use lower individual doses during titration. If higher doses are required, the individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2.4 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment In patients with hepatic impairment, use lower individual doses during titration. If higher doses are required, individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3) ]. 2.5 Discontinuation of Tizanidine Capsules When discontinuing tizanidine capsule, particularly in patients who have been receiving high doses for long periods or who may be on concomitant treatment with narcotics, decrease the dosage by 2 mg to 4 mg per day to minimize the risk of withdrawal adverse reactions [see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )]. 2.6 Switching Between With/Without Food and Different Tizanidine Dosage Forms There are pharmacokinetic differences when: 1) switching between administration of tizanidine with or without food 2) switching between dosage forms if being administered with food. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended starting dose: 2 mg; dose can be repeated at 6 to 8 hour intervals, up to a maximum of 3 doses in 24 hours (2.1) Dosage can be increased by 2 mg to 4 mg per dose, with 1 to 4 days between increases; total daily dose should not exceed 36 mg (2.1) Tizanidine pharmacokinetics differs between tablets and capsules, and when taken with or without food. These differences could result in a change in tolerability and control of symptoms ( 2.1 , 12.3 ) To discontinue Tizanidine Tablets, USP, decrease dose slowly to minimize the risk of withdrawal and rebound hypertension, tachycardia, and hypertonia ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Dosing Information Tizanidine Tablets, USP tablets may be prescribed with or without food. 2.1 Dosing Information Tizanidine hydrochloride Capsules may be prescribed with or without food. For this reason, the prescriber should be thoroughly familiar with the changes in kinetics associated with these different conditions [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. Because the effect of tizanidine hydrochloride capsules peaks at approximately 1 to 2 hours post-dose and dissipates between 3 to 6 hours post-dose, treatment can be repeated at 6 to 8 hour intervals, as needed, to a maximum of three doses in 24 hours. If higher doses are required, individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.7)]. Monitoring of aminotransferase levels is recommended for baseline and 1 month after maximum dose is achieved, or if hepatic injury is suspected [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS (8.7)]. 2.4 Drug Discontinuation If therapy needs to be discontinued, particularly in patients who have been receiving high doses (20 mg to 36 mg daily) for long periods (9 weeks or more) or who may be on concomitant treatment with narcotics, the dose should be decreased slowly (2 mg to 4 mg per day) to minimize the risk of withdrawal and rebound hypertension, tachycardia, and hypertonia [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE (9.3)]. ( 2.2 , 2.6 , 12.3 ) Patients with renal impairment (creatinine clearance <25 mL/min) or hepatic impairment: use lower individual doses during titration. ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) To discontinue tizanidine hydrochloride, decrease dose slowly to minimize the risk of withdrawal adverse reactions ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Recommended Evaluation and Testing Before and After Initiating Tizanidine Capsules Monitoring of aminotransferase levels is recommended at baseline and 1 month after maximum dose is achieved [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. There are pharmacokinetic differences when administering tizanidine hydrochloride between the fed or fasted state [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Tizanidine capsules may be taken with or without food; however, consistent administration with respect to food is recommended to reduce variability in tizanidine plasma exposure . Because of the short duration of therapeutic effect, treatment with tizanidine hydrochloride should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important. 2.3 Recommended Dosage Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with creatinine clearance <25 mL/min, use lower individual doses during titration. If higher doses are required, the individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . If higher doses are required, individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.5 Discontinuation of Tizanidine Capsules When discontinuing tizanidine capsules, particularly in patients who have been receiving high doses for long periods or who may be on concomitant treatment with narcotics, decrease the dosage by 2 mg to 4 mg per day to minimize the risk of withdrawal adverse reactions [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3) ]. 2.6 Switching Between with/without Food and Different Tizanidine Dosage Forms There are pharmacokinetic differences when: 1) switching between administration of tizanidine hydrochloride capsules with or without food 2) switching between dosage forms if being administered with food . If these situations occur, monitor patients for therapeutic effect or adverse reactions [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3 )
Warnings: WARNINGS SECTION LIMITED DATA BASE FOR CHRONIC USE OF SINGLE DOSES ABOVE 8 MG AND MULTIPLE DOSES ABOVE 24 MG PER DAY Clinical experience with long-term use of tizanidine at doses of 8 to 16 mg single doses or total daily doses of 24 to 36 mg (see Dosage and Administration) is limited. In safety studies, approximately 75 patients have been exposed to individual doses of 12 mg or more for at least one year or more and approximately 80 patients have been exposed to total daily doses of 30 to 36 mg/day for at least one year or more. There is essentially no long-term experience with single, daytime doses of 16 mg. Because long-term clinical study experience at high doses is limited, only those adverse events with a relatively high incidence are likely to have been identified (see WARNINGS, PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS). HYPOTENSION Tizanidine is a α2-adrenergic agonist (like clonidine) and can produce hypotension. In a single dose study where blood pressure was monitored closely after dosing, two-thirds of patients treated with 8 mg of tizanidine had a 20% reduction in either the diastolic or systolic BP. The reduction was seen within 1 hour after dosing, peaked 2 to 3 hours after dosing and was associated, at times, with bradycardia, orthostatic hypotension, lightheadedness/dizziness and rarely syncope. The hypotensive effect is dose related and has been measured following single doses of ≥ 2 mg. The chance of significant hypotension may possibly be minimized by titration of the dose and by focusing attention on signs and symptoms of hypotension prior to dose advancement. In addition, patients moving from a supine to a fixed upright position may be at increased risk for hypotension and orthostatic effects. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy and should not be used with other α2-adrenergic agonists. Clinically significant hypotension (decreases in both systolic and diastolic pressure) has been reported with concomitant administration of either fluvoxamine or ciprofloxacin and single doses of 4 mg of tizanidine. Therefore, concomitant use of tizanidine with fluvoxamine or with ciprofloxacin, potent inhibitors of CYP1A2, is contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interactions). RISK OF LIVER INJURY Tizanidine occasionally causes liver injury, most often hepatocellular in type. In controlled clinical studies, approximately 5% of patients treated with tizanidine had elevations of liver function tests (ALT/SGPT, AST/SGOT) to greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal (or 2 times if baseline levels were elevated) compared to 0.4% in the control patients. Most cases resolved rapidly upon drug withdrawal with no reported residual problems. In occasional symptomatic cases, nausea, vomiting, anorexia and jaundice have been reported. Based upon postmarketing experience, death associated with liver failure has been a rare occurrence reported in patients treated with tizanidine. Monitoring of aminotransferase levels is recommended during the first 6 months of treatment (e.g., baseline, 1, 3 and 6 months) and periodically thereafter, based on clinical status. Because of the potential toxic hepatic effect of tizanidine, the drug should ordinarily be avoided or used with extreme caution in patients with impaired hepatic function. SEDATION In the multiple doses, controlled clinical studies, 48% of patients receiving any dose of tizanidine reported sedation as an adverse event. In 10% of these cases, the sedation was rated as severe compared to < 1% in the placebo treated patients. Sedation may interfere with everyday activity. The effect appears to be dose related. In a single dose study, 92% of the patients receiving 16 mg, when asked, reported that they were drowsy during the 6 hour study. This compares to 76% of the patients on 8 mg and 35% of the patients on placebo. Patients began noting this effect 30 minutes following dosing. The effect peaked 1.5 hours following dosing. Of the patients who received a single dose of 16 mg, 51% continued to report drowsiness 6 hours following dosing compared to 13% in the patients receiving placebo or 8 mg of tizanidine. In the multiple dose studies, the prevalence of patients with sedation peaked following the first week of titration and then remained stable for the duration of the maintenance phase of the study. HALLUCINOSIS/PSYCHOTIC-LIKE SYMPTOMS Tizanidine use has been associated with hallucinations. Formed, visual hallucinations or delusions have been reported in 5 of 170 patients (3%) in two North American controlled clinical studies. These 5 cases occurred within the first 6 weeks. Most of the patients were aware that the events were unreal. One patient developed psychoses in association with the hallucinations. One patient among these 5 continued to have problems for at least 2 weeks following discontinuation of tizanidine. USE IN PATIENTS WITH HEPATIC IMPAIRMENT The influence of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of tizanidine has not been evaluated. Because tizanidine is extensively metabolized in the liver, hepatic impairment would be expected to have significant effects on the pharmacokinetics of tizanidine. Tizanidine should ordinarily be avoided or used with extreme caution in patients with hepatic impairment (See also RISK OF LIVER INJURY). POTENTIAL INTERACTION WITH FLUVOXAMINE OR CIPROFLOXACIN In a pharmacokinetic study, tizanidine serum concentration was significantly increased (Cmax 12-fold, AUC 33-fold) when the drug was given concomitantly with fluvoxamine. Potentiated hypotensive and sedative effects were observed. Fluvoxamine and tizanidine should not be used together. (See CONTRAINDICATIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interactions). In a pharmacokinetic study, tizanidine serum concentration was significantly increased (Cmax 7-fold, AUC 10-fold) when the drug was given concomitantly with ciprofloxacin. Ciprofloxacin and tizanidine should not be used together (See CONTRAINDICATIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interactions). POSSIBLE INTERACTION WITH OTHER CYP1A2 INHIBITORS Because of potential drug interactions, concomitant use of tizanidine with other CYP1A2 inhibitors, such as zileuton, other fluoroquinolones, antiarrythmics (amiodarone, mexiletine, propafenone, and verapamil), cimetidine, famotidine, oral contraceptives, acyclovir and ticlopidine (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interactions) should ordinarily be avoided. If their use is clinically necessary, they should be used with caution.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tizanidine hydrochloride capsules is contraindicated in patients taking potent inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as fluvoxamine or ciprofloxacin [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 , 7.2 )]. Concomitant use with potent inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as fluvoxamine or ciprofloxacin( 4 , 5.5 , 7.1 , 7.2 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tizanidine is contraindicated in patients: • taking strong CYP1A2 inhibitors [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. • with a history of hypersensitivity to tizanidine or the ingredients in tizanidine tablets. Symptoms have included anaphylaxis and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )]. Concomitant use with strong CYP1A2 inhibitors ( 4 , 7.1 ) Patients with a history of hypersensitivity to tizanidine or the ingredients in tizanidine tablets ( 4 , 5.5 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tizanidine Tablets, USP is contraindicated in patientstaking potent inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as fluvoxamine or ciprofloxacin [ see Drug Interactions (7.1 , 7.2 ) ]. Concomitant use with potent inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as fluvoxamine or ciprofloxacin ( 4 , 5.5 , 7.1 , 7.2 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Zanaflex is contraindicated in patients taking potent inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as fluvoxamine or ciprofloxacin [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 , 7.2 )] . CONTRAINDICATIONS SECTION Concomitant use of tizanidine with fluvoxamine or with ciprofloxacin, potent inhibitors of CYP1A2, is contraindicated. Significant alterations of pharmacokinetic parameters of tizanidine including increased AUC, t1/2, Cmax, increased oral bioavailability and decreased plasma clearance have been observed with concomitant administration of either fluvoxamine or ciprofloxacin. This pharmacokinetic interaction can result in potentially serious adverse events (See WARNINGS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interactions). Tizanidine tablets is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to Tizanidine tablets or its ingredients. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tizanidine capsules are contraindicated in patients: • taking strong CYP1A2 inhibitors [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. • with a history of hypersensitivity to tizanidine or the ingredients in tizanidine capsules. • Concomitant use with strong CYP1A2 inhibitors ( 4 , 7.1 ) • Patients with a history of hypersensitivity to tizanidine or the ingredients in tizanidine ( 4 , 5.5 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tizanidine Tablets, USP is contraindicated in patientstaking potent inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as fluvoxamine or ciprofloxacin [ see Drug Interactions (7.1 , 7.2) ]. Tizanidine hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in patients taking potent inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as fluvoxamine or ciprofloxacin [see DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.1, 7.2)]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Concomitant use with strong CYP1A2 inhibitors ( 4 , 7.1 ) Patients with a history of hypersensitivity to tizanidine or the ingredients in tizanidine capsules ( 4 , 5.5 ) Tizanidine capsules are contraindicated in patients: taking strong CYP1A2inhibitors [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . with a history of hypersensitivity to tizanidine or the ingredients in tizanidine capsules. Symptoms have included anaphylaxis and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)].
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Fluvoxamine Concomitant use of fluvoxamine and tizanidine is contraindicated. Changes in pharmacokinetics of tizanidine when administered with fluvoxamine resulted in significantly decreased blood pressure, increased drowsiness, and increased psychomotor impairment [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.2 Ciprofloxacin Concomitant use of ciprofloxacin and tizanidine is contraindicated. Changes in pharmacokinetics of tizanidine when administered with ciprofloxacin resulted in significantly decreased blood pressure, increased drowsiness, and increased psychomotor impairment [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.3 CYP1A2 Inhibitors other than Fluvoxamine and Ciprofloxacin Because of potential drug interactions, concomitant use of tizanidine with other CYP1A2 inhibitors, such as zileuton, fluoroquinolones other than strong CYP1A2 inhibitors (which are contraindicated), antiarrhythmics (amiodarone, mexiletine, propafenone, and verapamil), cimetidine, famotidine, oral contraceptives, acyclovir, and ticlopidine) should be avoided. If their use is clinically necessary, therapy should be initiated with 2 mg dose and increased in 2 to 4 mg steps daily based on patient response to therapy. If adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur, reduce or discontinue tizanidine therapy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.4 Oral Contraceptives Concomitant use of tizanidine with oral contraceptives is not recommended. However, if concomitant use is clinically necessary, initiate tizanidine with a single 2 mg dose and increase in 2 to 4 mg steps daily based on patient response to therapy. If adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur, reduce or discontinue tizanidine therapy [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.5 Alcohol Alcohol increases the overall amount of drug in the bloodstream after a dose of tizanidine. This was associated with an increase in adverse reactions of tizanidine. The CNS depressant effects of tizanidine and alcohol are additive [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.6 Other CNS Depressants The sedative effects of tizanidine with CNS depressants (e.g., benzodiazepines, opioids, tricyclic antidepressants) may be additive. Monitor patients who take tizanidine with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.7 α 2 -Adrenergic Agonists Because hypotensive effects may be cumulative, it is not recommended that tizanidine be used with other α 2- adrenergic agonists [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Moderate or weak CYP1A2 inhibitors: avoid concomitant use; may cause hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness; if concomitant use is necessary and adverse reactions occur, reduce tizanidine dosage or discontinue. ( 7.2 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Strong CYP1A2 Inhibitors Concomitant use of tizanidine with strong cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2) inhibitors (e.g., fluvoxamine, ciprofloxacin) is contraindicated. Changes in pharmacokinetics of tizanidine when administered with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor resulted in significantly decreased blood pressure, increased drowsiness, and increased psychomotor impairment [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.2 Moderate or Weak CYP1A2 Inhibitors Concomitant use of tizanidine with moderate or weak CYP1A2 inhibitors (e.g., zileuton, antiarrhythmics [amiodarone, mexiletine, propafenone, and verapamil], cimetidine, famotidine, oral contraceptives, acyclovir, and ticlopidine) should be avoided. If concomitant use is clinically necessary, and adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur, reduce tizanidine dosage or discontinue tizanidine therapy [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.3 Oral Contraceptives Concomitant use of tizanidine with oral contraceptives is not recommended. However, if concomitant use is clinically necessary and adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur, reduce or discontinue tizanidine therapy [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.4 Alcohol and Other CNS Depressants Alcohol increases the exposure of tizanidine after administration of tizanidine. Concomitant use of tizanidine with CNS depressants (e.g., alcohol, benzodiazepines, opioids, tricyclic antidepressants) may cause additive CNS depressant effects, including sedation. 7.5 α 2 -Adrenergic Agonists Concomitant use of tizanidine with other α 2 -adrenergic agonists is not recommended because hypotensive effects may be cumulative [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. 7.6 Antihypertensive Medications Concomitant use of tizanidine tablets with antihypertensive medications may cause additive hypotensive effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ] . Monitor patients who take tizanidine tablets with antihypertensive medications for hypotension. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Fluvoxamine Concomitant use of fluvoxamine and Tizanidine Tablets, USP is contraindicated. Changes in pharmacokinetics of tizanidine when administered with fluvoxamine resulted in significantly decreased blood pressure, increased drowsiness, and increased psychomotor impairment. [ see Contraindications (4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] 7.2 Ciprofloxacin Concomitant use of ciprofoxacin and Tizanidine Tablets, USP is contraindicated. Changes in pharmacokinetics of tizanidine when administered with ciprofloxacin resulted in significantly decreased blood pressure, increased drowsiness, and increased psychomotor impairment. [ see Contraindications (4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] 7.3 CYP1A2 Inhibitors other than Fluvoxamine and Ciprofloxacin Because of potential drug interactions, concomitant use of Tizanidine Tablets, USP with other CYP1A2 inhibitors, such as zileuton, fluoroquinolones other than strong CYP1A2 inhibitors (which are contraindicated), antiarrythmics (amiodarone, mexiletine, propafenone, and verapamil), cimetidine, famotidine, oral contraceptives, acyclovir, and ticlopidine) should be avoided. If their use is clinically necessary, therapy should be initiated with 2 mg dose and increased in 2–4 mg steps daily based on patient response to therapy. If adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur, reduce or discontinue Tizanidine Tablets, USP therapy. [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] 7.4 Oral Contraceptives Concomitant use of Tizanidine Tablets, USP with oral contraceptives is not recommended. However, if concomitant use is clinically necessary, initiate Tizanidine Tablets, USP with a single 2 mg dose and increase in 2–4 mg steps daily based on patient response to therapy. [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] 7.5 Alcohol Alcohol increases the overall amount of drug in the bloodstream after a dose of Tizanidine Tablets, USP. This was associated with an increase in adverse reactions of Tizanidine Tablets, USP. The CNS depressant effects of Tizanidine Tablets, USP and alcohol are additive. [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] 7.6 Other CNS Depressants The sedative effects of Tizanidine Tablets, USP with CNS depressants (e.g., benzodiazepines, opioids, tricyclic antidepressants) may be additive. Monitor patients who take Tizanidine Tablets, USP with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] 7.7 α 2 -adrenergic agonists Because hypotensive effects may be cumulative, it is not recommended that Tizanidine Tablets, USP be used with other α 2 -adrenergic agonists. [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Fluvoxamine Concomitant use of fluvoxamine and Zanaflex is contraindicated. Changes in pharmacokinetics of tizanidine when administered with fluvoxamine resulted in significantly decreased blood pressure, increased drowsiness, and increased psychomotor impairment [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.2 Ciprofloxacin Concomitant use of ciprofloxacin and Zanaflex is contraindicated. Changes in pharmacokinetics of tizanidine when administered with ciprofloxacin resulted in significantly decreased blood pressure, increased drowsiness, and increased psychomotor impairment [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.3 CYP1A2 Inhibitors other than Fluvoxamine and Ciprofloxacin Because of potential drug interactions, concomitant use of Zanaflex with other CYP1A2 inhibitors, such as zileuton, fluoroquinolones other than strong CYP1A2 inhibitors (which are contraindicated), antiarrhythmics (amiodarone, mexiletine, propafenone, and verapamil), cimetidine, famotidine, oral contraceptives, acyclovir, and ticlopidine) should be avoided. If adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur, reduce or discontinue Zanaflex therapy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.4 Oral Contraceptives Concomitant use of Zanaflex with oral contraceptives is not recommended. However, if concomitant use is clinically necessary, initiate Zanaflex with a single 2 mg dose and increase in 2–4 mg steps daily based on patient response to therapy. If adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur, reduce or discontinue Zanaflex therapy [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.5 Alcohol Alcohol increases the overall amount of drug in the bloodstream after a dose of Zanaflex. This was associated with an increase in adverse reactions of Zanaflex. The CNS depressant effects of Zanaflex and alcohol are additive [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.6 Other CNS Depressants The sedative effects of Zanaflex with CNS depressants (e.g., benzodiazepines, opioids, tricyclic antidepressants) may be additive. Monitor patients who take Zanaflex with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.7 α 2 -Adrenergic Agonists Because hypotensive effects may be cumulative, it is not recommended that Zanaflex be used with other α 2 -adrenergic agonists [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . 7.5 α2-Adrenergic Agonists Concomitant use of tizanidine with other α2-adrenergic agonists is not recommended because hypotensive effects may be cumulative [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. 7.6 Antihypertensive Medications Concomitant use of tizanidine with antihypertensive medications may cause additive hypotensive effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Monitor patients who take tizanidine with antihypertensive medications for hypotension. 7.1 Fluvoxamine Concomitant use of fluvoxamine and tizanidine is contraindicated. Changes in pharmacokinetics of tizanidine when administered with fluvoxamine resulted in significantly decreased blood pressure, increased drowsiness, and increased psychomotor impairment [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4) AND CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. Changes in pharmacokinetics of tizanidine when administered with ciprofloxacin resulted in significantly decreased blood pressure, increased drowsiness, and increased psychomotor impairment [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. If adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur, reduce or discontinue tizanidine therapy [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.5) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. If adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur, reduce or discontinue tizanidine therapy [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. 7.5 Alcohol Alcohol increases the overall amount of drug in the bloodstream after a dose of tizanidine hydrochloride. The CNS depressant effects of tizanidine and alcohol are additive [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. Monitor patients who take tizanidine with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. 7.7 Alpha2 -Adrenergic Agonists Because hypotensive effects may be cumulative, it is not recommended that tizanidine be used with other α2-adrenergic agonists [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.1)]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Strong CYP1A2 Inhibitors Concomitant use of tizanidine with strong cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2) inhibitors (e.g., fluvoxamine, ciprofloxacin) is contraindicated. Changes in pharmacokinetics of tizanidine when administered with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor resulted in significantly decreased blood pressure, increased drowsiness, and increased psychomotor impairment [see Contraindications (4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. If concomitant use is clinically necessary, and adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur, reduce tizanidine dosage or discontinue tizanidine therapy [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. However, if concomitant use is clinically necessary and adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur, reduce or discontinue tizanidine therapy [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Monitor patients who take tizanidine with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.5 a 2 -Adrenergic Agonists Concomitant use of tizanidine with other α 2 -adrenergic agonists is not recommended because hypotensive effects may be cumulative [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7.6 Antihypertensive Medications Concomitant use of tizanidine with antihypertensive medications may cause additive hypotensive effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] .

=== DEXAMETHASONE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE A l l ergic States: Control of severe or incapacitating a llergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment in asthma, atopic dermatitis, contact dermatitis, drug hypersensitivity reactions, perennial or seasonal allergic rhinitis, and serum sickness. Dermatologic Diseases: Bul l ous dermatitis herpetiformis, exfoliative erythroderma, mycosis fungoides, pemphigus, and severe erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson syndrome). Endocrine Disorders: Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the drug of choice; may be used in conjunction with synthetic mineralocorticoid analogs where applicable; in infancy mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance), congenital adrenal hyperplasia, hypercalcemia associated with cancer, and nonsuppurative thyroiditis. Gastrointestinal Diseases: To tide the patient over a critical period of the disease in regional enteritis and ulcerative colitis. Hematologic Disorders: Acquired (autoimmune) hemolytic anemia, congenital (erythroid) hypoplastic anemia (Diamond-Blackfan anemia), idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura in adults, pure red cell aplasia, and selected cases of secondary thrombocytopenia. Misce l l aneous: Diagnostic testing of adrenocortical hyperfunction, trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement, tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy. Neoplastic Diseases: For the palliative management of leukemias and lymphomas. Nervous System: Acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis, cerebral edema associated with primary or metastatic brain tumor, craniotomy, or head injury. Ophthalmic Diseases: Sympathetic ophthalmia, temporal arteritis, uveitis, and ocular inflammatory conditions unresponsive to topical corticosteroids. Renal Diseases: To induce a diuresis or remission of proteinuria in idiopathic nephrotic syndrome or that due to lupus erythematosus. Respiratory Diseases: Berylliosis, fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy, idiopathic eosinophilic pneumonias, symptomatic sarcoidosis. Rheumatic Disorders: As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in acute gouty arthritis, acute rheumatic carditis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low-dose maintenance therapy). For the treatment of dermatomyositis, polymyositis, and systemic lupus erythematosus. INDICATIONS A. Intravenous or intramuscular administration. When oral therapy is not feasible and the strength, dosage form, and route of administration of the drug reasonably lend the preparation to the treatment of the condition, those products labeled for intravenous or intramuscular use are indicated as follows: 1. Endocrine disorders Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the drug of choice; synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable; in infancy, mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance) Acute adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the drug of choice; mineralocorticoid supplementation may be necessary, particularly when synthetic analogs are used) Preoperatively, and in the event of serious trauma or illness, in patients with known adrenal insufficiency or when adrenocortical reserve is doubtful Shock unresponsive to conventional therapy if adrenocortical insufficiency exists or is suspected Congenital adrenal hyperplasia Nonsuppurative thyroiditis Hypercalcemia associated with cancer 2. Rheumatic disorders As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in: Post-traumatic osteoarthritis Synovitis of osteoarthritis Rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low-dose maintenance therapy) Acute and subacute bursitis Epicondylitis Acute nonspecific tenosynovitis Acute gouty arthritis Psoriatic arthritis Ankylosing spondylitis 3. Collagen diseases During an exacerbation or as maintenance therapy in selected cases of: Systemic lupus erythematosus Acute rheumatic carditis 4. Dermatologic diseases Pemphigus Severe erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson Syndrome) Exfoliative dermatitis Bullous dermatitis herpetiformis Severe seborrheic dermatitis Severe psoriasis Mycosis fungoides 5. Allergic states Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment in: Bronchial asthma Contact dermatitis Atopic dermatitis Serum sickness Seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis Drug hypersensitivity reactions Urticarial transfusion reactions Acute noninfectious laryngeal edema (epinephrine is the drug of first choice) 6. Ophthalmic diseases Severe acute and chronic allergic and inflammatory processes involving the eye, such as: Herpes zoster ophthalmicus Iritis, iridocyclitis Chorioretinitis Diffuse posterior uveitis and choroiditis Optic neuritis Sympathetic ophthalmia Anterior segment inflammation Allergic conjunctivitis Allergic corneal marginal ulcers Keratitis 7. Gastrointestinal diseases To tide the patient over a critical period of the disease in: Ulcerative colitis (systemic therapy) Regional enteritis (systemic therapy) 8. Respiratory diseases Symptomatic Sarcoidosis Berylliosis Fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate anti-tuberculosis chemotherapy Loeffler's syndrome not manageable by other means Aspiration pneumonitis 9. Hematologic disorders Acquired (autoimmune) hemolytic anemia Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura in adults (I.V. only; I.M. administration is contraindicated) Secondary thrombocytopenia in adults Erythroblastopenia (RBC anemia) Congenital (erythroid) hypoplastic anemia 10. Neoplastic diseases For palliative management of: Leukemias and lymphomas in adults Acute leukemia of childhood 11. Edematous states To induce diuresis or remission of proteinuria in the nephrotic syndrome, without uremia, of the idiopathic type or that due to lupus erythematosus 12. Nervous system Acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis 13. Miscellaneous Tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used concurrently with appropriate anti-tuberculosis chemotherapy Trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement Diagnostic testing of adrenocortical hyperfunction Cerebral edema of diverse etiologies in conjunction with adequate neurological evaluation and management. B. Intra-articular or soft tissue administration. When the strength and dosage form of the drug lend the preparation to the treatment of the condition, those products labeled for intra-articular or soft tissue administration are indicated as adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in: Synovitis of osteoarthritis Rheumatoid arthritis Acute and subacute bursitis Acute gouty arthritis Epicondylitis Acute nonspecific tenosynovitis Post-traumatic osteoarthritis C. Intralesional administration. When the strength and dosage form of the drug lend the preparation to the treatment of the condition, those products labeled for intralesional administration are indicated for: Keloids Localized hypertrophic, infiltrated, inflammatory lesions of: lichen planus, psoriatic plaques, granuloma annulare, and lichen simplex chronicus (neurodermatitis) Discoid lupus erythematosus Necrobiosis lipoidica diabeticorum Alopecia areata They also may be useful in cystic tumors of an aponeurosis tendon (ganglia). INDICATIONS AND USAGE: Intravenous or Intramuscular Injection When oral therapy is not feasible and the strength, dosage form, and route of administration of the drug reasonably lend the preparation to the treatment of the condition, those products labeled for intravenous or intramuscular use are indicated as follows: • Endocrine Disorders Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the drug of choice; synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable; in infancy, mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance) Acute adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the drug of choice; mineralocorticoid supplementation may be necessary, particularly when synthetic analogs are used) Preoperatively, and in the event of serious trauma or illness, in patients with known adrenal insufficiency or when adrenocortical reserve is doubtful Shock unresponsive to conventional therapy if adrenocortical insufficiency exists or is suspected Congenital adrenal hyperplasia Nonsuppurative thyroiditis Hypercalcemia associated with cancer • Rheumatic Disorders As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in: Post-traumatic osteoarthritis Synovitis of osteoarthritis Rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low-dose maintenance therapy) Acute and subacute bursitis Epicondylitis Acute nonspecific tenosynovitis Acute gouty arthritis Psoriatic arthritis Ankylosing spondylitis • Collagen Diseases During an exacerbation or as maintenance therapy in selected cases of: Systemic lupus erythematosus Acute rheumatic carditis • Dermatologic Diseases Pemphigus Severe erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson syndrome) Exfoliative dermatitis Bullous dermatitis herpetiformis Severe seborrheic dermatitis Severe psoriasis Mycosis fungoides • Allergic States Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment in: Bronchial asthma Contact dermatitis Atopic dermatitis Serum sickness Seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis Drug hypersensitivity reactions Urticarial transfusion reactions Acute noninfectious laryngeal edema (epinephrine is the drug of first choice) • Ophthalmic Diseases Severe acute and chronic allergic and inflammatory processes involving the eye, such as: Herpes zoster ophthalmicus Iritis, iridocyclitis Chorioretinitis Diffuse posterior uveitis and choroiditis Optic neuritis Sympathetic ophthalmia Anterior segment inflammation Allergic conjunctivitis Keratitis Allergic corneal marginal ulcers • Gastrointestinal Diseases To tide the patient over a critical period of the disease in: Ulcerative colitis (Systemic therapy) Regional enteritis (Systemic therapy) • Respiratory Diseases Symptomatic sarcoidosis Berylliosis Fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy Loeffler’s syndrome not manageable by other means Aspiration pneumonitis • Hematologic Disorders Acquired (autoimmune) hemolytic anemia Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura in adults (IV only; IM administration is contraindicated) Secondary thrombocytopenia in adults Erythroblastopenia (RBC anemia) Congenital (erythroid) hypoplastic anemia • Neoplastic Diseases For palliative management of: Leukemias and lymphomas in adults Acute leukemia of childhood • Edematous States To induce diuresis or remission of proteinuria in the nephrotic syndrome, without uremia, of the idiopathic type, or that due to lupus erythematosus • Miscellaneous Tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy Trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement • Diagnostic testing of adrenocortical hyperfunction • Cerebral Edema associated with primary or metastatic brain tumor, craniotomy, or head injury. Use in cerebral edema is not a substitute for careful neurosurgical evaluation and definitive management such as neurosurgery or other specific therapy. By Intra-articular or Soft Tissue Injection As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in: Synovitis of osteoarthritis Rheumatoid arthritis Acute and subacute bursitis Acute gouty arthritis Epicondylitis Acute nonspecific tenosynovitis Post-traumatic osteoarthritis By Intralesional Injection Keloids Localized hypertrophic, infiltrated, inflammatory lesions of: lichen planus, psoriatic plaques, granuloma annulare and lichen simplex chronicus (neurodermatitis) Discoid lupus erythematosus Necrobiosis lipoidica diabeticorum Alopecia areata May also be useful in cystic tumors of an aponeurosis or tendon (ganglia) By Intra-articular or Soft Tissue Injection As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in: Synovitis of osteoarthritis Rheumatoid arthritis Acute and subacute bursitis Acute gouty arthritis Epicondylitis Acute nonspecific tenosynovitis Post-traumatic osteoarthritis By Intralesional Injection Keloids Localized hypertrophic, infiltrated, inflammatory lesions of: lichen planus, psoriatic plaques, granuloma annulare and lichen simplex chronicus (neurodermatitis) Discoid lupus erythematosus Necrobiosis lipoidica diabeticorum Alopecia areata May also be useful in cystic tumors of an aponeurosis or tendon (ganglia) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Allergic States Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment: Atopic dermatitis, Bronchial asthma, Contact dermatitis, Drug hypersensitivity reactions, Seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis, and Serum sickness. Collagen Diseases During an exacerbation or as maintenance therapy in selected cases of: Systemic lupus erythematosus, and Acute rheumatic carditis. Dermatologic Diseases Bullous dermatitis herpetiformis, Exfoliative dermatitis, Mycosis fungoides, Pemphigus, Severe erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson syndrome), Severe psoriasis, and Severe seborrheic dermatitis. Edematous States To induce a diuresis or remission of proteinuria in the nephrotic syndrome, without uremia, of the idiopathic type or that due to lupus erythematosus. Endocrine Disorders Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the first choice; synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable; in infancy, mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance), Congenital adrenal hyperplasia, Hypercalcemia associated with cancer, and Nonsuppurative thyroiditis. Gastrointestinal diseases To tide the patient over a critical period of the disease in: Ulcerative colitis, and Regional enteritis. Hematologic Disorders Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura in adults, Secondary thrombocytopenia in adults, Acquired (autoimmune) hemolytic anemia, Erythroblastopenia (RBC anemia), and Congenital (erythroid) hypoplastic anemia. Miscellaneous Diagnostic testing of adrenocortical hyperfunction, Tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy, and Trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement. Neoplastic Diseases For palliative management of: Leukemia and lymphomas in adults, and Acute leukemia of childhood. Ophthalmic Diseases Severe acute and chronic allergic and inflammatory processes involving the eye and its adnexa, such as: Allergic conjunctivitis, Keratitis, Allergic corneal marginal ulcers, Herpes zoster ophthalmicus, Iritis and iridocyclitis, Chorioretinitis, Anterior segment inflammation, Diffuse posterior uveitis and choroiditis, Optic neuritis, and Sympathetic ophthalmia. Respiratory Diseases Symptomatic sarcoidosis, Loeffler's syndrome not manageable by other means, Berylliosis, Fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy, and Aspiration pneumonitis. Rheumatic Disorders As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in: Psoriatic arthritis, Rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low-dose maintenance therapy), Ankylosing spondylitis, Acute and subacute bursitis, Acute nonspecific tenosynovitis, Acute gouty arthritis, Post-traumatic osteoarthritis, Synovitis of osteoarthritis, and Epicondylitis. Allergic States Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment in asthma, atopic dermatitis, contact dermatitis, drug hypersensitivity reactions, perennial or seasonal allergic rhinitis, and serum sickness. Dermatologic Diseases Bullous dermatitis herpetiformis, exfoliative erythroderma, mycosis fungoides, pemphigus, and severe erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson syndrome). Endocrine Disorders Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the drug of choice; may be used in conjunction with synthetic mineralocorticoid analogs where applicable; in infancy mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance), congenital adrenal hyperplasia, hypercalcemia associated with cancer, and nonsuppurative thyroiditis. Gastrointestinal Diseases To tide the patient over a critical period of the disease in regional enteritis and ulcerative colitis. Hematologic Disorders Acquired (autoimmune) hemolytic anemia, congenital (erythroid) hypoplastic anemia (Diamond-Blackfan anemia), idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura in adults, pure red cell aplasia, and selected cases of secondary thrombocytopenia. Miscellaneous Diagnostic testing of adrenocortical hyperfunction, trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement, tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy. Neoplastic Diseases For the palliative management of leukemias and lymphomas. Nervous System Acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis, cerebral edema associated with primary or metastatic brain tumor, craniotomy, or head injury. Ophthalmic Diseases Sympathetic ophthalmia, temporal arteritis, uveitis, and ocular inflammatory conditions unresponsive to topical corticosteroids. Renal Diseases To induce a diuresis or remission of proteinuria in idiopathic nephrotic syndrome or that due to lupus erythematosus. Respiratory Diseases Berylliosis, fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy, idiopathic eosinophilic pneumonias, symptomatic sarcoidosis. Rheumatic DisordersAs adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in acute gouty arthritis, acute rheumatic carditis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low- dose maintenance therapy). INDICATIONS & USAGE Allergic States Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment in asthma, atopic dermatitis, contact dermatitis, drug hypersensitivity reactions, perennial or seasonal allergic rhinitis, and serum sickness. INDICATIONS AND USAGE: Tobramycin and dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension is indicated for steroid-responsive inflammatory ocular conditions for which a corticosteroid is indicated and where superficial bacterial ocular infection or a risk of bacterial ocular infection exists. Ocular steroids are indicated in inflammatory conditions of the palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva, cornea and anterior segment of the globe where the inherent risk of steroid use in certain infective conjunctivitides is accepted to obtain a diminution in edema and inflammation. They are also indicated in chronic anterior uveitis and corneal injury from chemical, radiation or thermal burns, or penetration of foreign bodies. The use of a combination drug with an anti-infective component is indicated where the risk of superficial ocular infection is high or where there is an expectation that potentially dangerous numbers of bacteria will be present in the eye. The particular anti-infective drug in this product is active against the following common bacterial eye pathogens: Staphylococci, including S. aureus and S. epidermidis (coagulase-positive and coagulase-negative), including penicillin-resistant strains. Streptococci, including some of the Group A-beta-hemolytic species, some nonhemolytic species, and some Streptococcus pneumoniae . Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterobacter aerogenes, Proteus mirabilis, Morganella morganii, most Proteus vulgaris strains, Haemophilus influenzae and H. aegyptius, Moraxella lacunata, Acinetobacter calcoaceticus and some Neisseria species. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tobramycin and dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension is indicated for steroid-responsive inflammatory ocular conditions for which a corticosteroid is indicated and where superficial bacterial ocular infection or a risk of bacterial ocular infection exists.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For Oral Administration The initial dosage varies from 0.75 to 9 mg a day depending on the disease being treated. It Should Be Emphasized That Dosage Requirements Are Variable And Must Be Individualized On The Basis Of The Disease Under Treatment And The Response Of The Patient. After a favorable response is noted, the proper maintenance dosage should be determined by decreasing the initial drug dosage in small decrements at appropriate time intervals until the lowest dosage that maintains an adequate clinical response is reached. Situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process, the patient's individual drug responsiveness, and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease entity under treatment. In this latter situation it may be necessary to increase the dosage of the corticosteroid for a period of time consistent with the patient's condition. If after long-term therapy the drug is to be stopped, it is recommended that it be withdrawn gradually rather than abruptly. In the treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis, daily doses of 30 mg of dexamethasone for a week followed by 4 to 12 mg every other day for one month have been shown to be effective (see PRECAUTIONS : Neuro-Psychiatric ). In pediatric patients, the initial dose of dexamethasone may vary depending on the specific disease entity being treated. The range of initial doses is 0.02 to 0.3 mg/kg/day in three or four divided doses (0.6 to 9 mg/m2bsa/day). For the purpose of comparison, the fo ll owing is the equivalent mi lli gram dosage of the various corticosteroids: Dexamethasone, 1.5 Methylprednisolone, 8 Prednisone, 10 Triamcinolone, 8 Prednisolone, 10 Betamethasone, 1.5 Hydrocortisone, 40 Paramethasone, 4 Cortisone, 50 These dose relationships apply only to oral or intravenous administration of these compounds. When these substances or their derivatives are injected intramuscularly or into joint spaces, their relative properties may be greatly altered. In acute, self-limited allergic disorders or acute exacerbations of chronic allergic disorders, the following dosage schedule combining parenteral and oral therapy is suggested: Dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection, 4 mg per mL First Day 1 or 2 mL, intramuscularly Dexamethasone tablets, 0.75 mg Second Day 4 tablets in two divided doses Third Day 4 tablets in two divided doses Fourth Day 2 tablets in two divided doses Fifth Day 1 tablet Sixth Day 1 tablet Seventh Day No treatment Eighth Day Follow-up visit This schedule is designed to ensure adequate therapy during acute episodes, while minimizing the risk of overdosage in chronic cases. In cerebral edema , dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection is generally administered initially in a dosage of 10 mg intravenously followed by 4 mg every six hours intramuscularly until the symptoms of cerebral edema subside. Response is usually noted within 12 to 24 hours and dosage may be reduced after two to four days and gradually discontinued over a period of five to seven days. For pal l iative management of patients with recurrent or inoperable brain tumors, maintenance therapy with either dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection or dexamethasone tablets in a dosage of 2 mg two or three times daily may be effective. Dexamethasone Suppression Tests 1. Tests for Cushing’s syndrome Give 1.0 mg of dexamethasone orally at 11:00 p.m. Blood is drawn for plasma cortisol determination at 8:00 a.m. the following morning. For greater accuracy, give 0.5 mg of dexamethasone orally every 6 hours for 48 hours. Twenty-four hour urine co l ections are made for determination of 17-hydroxycorticosteroid excretion. 2. Test to distinguish Cushing’s syndrome due to pituitary ACTH excess from Cushing’s syndrome due to other causes. Give 2.0 mg of dexamethasone orally every 6 hours for 48 hours. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A. Intravenous or intramuscular administration. The initial dosage of Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate Injection may vary from 0.50 mg/day to 9.0 mg/day depending on the specific disease entity being treated. In situations of less severity, lower doses will generally suffice while in selected patients higher initial doses may be required. Usually the parenteral dosage ranges are one-third to one-half the oral dose given every 12 hours. However, in certain overwhelming, acute, life-threatening situations, administration of dosages exceeding the usual dosages may be justified and may be in multiples of the oral dosages. For the treatment of unresponsive shock high pharmacologic doses of this product are currently recommended. Reported regimens range from 1 to 6 mg/kg of body weight as a single intravenous injection to 40 mg initially followed by repeat intravenous injection every 2 to 6 hours while shock persists. For the treatment of cerebral edema in adults an initial intravenous dose of 10 mg is recommended followed by 4 mg intramuscularly every six hours until maximum response has been noted. This regimen may be continued for several days postoperatively in patients requiring brain surgery. Oral dexamethasone, 1 to 3 mg t.i.d., should be given as soon as possible and dosage tapered off over a period of five to seven days. Nonoperative cases may require continuous therapy to remain free of symptoms of increased intracranial pressure. The smallest effective dose should be used in children, preferably orally. This may approximate 0.2 mg/kg/24 hours in divided doses. In treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis daily doses of 200 mg of prednisolone for a week followed by 80 mg every other day or 4–8 mg dexamethasone every other day for 1 month have been shown to be effective. The initial dosage should be maintained or adjusted until a satisfactory response is noted. If after a reasonable period of time there is a lack of satisfactory clinical response, Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate Injection should be discontinued and the patient transferred to other appropriate therapy. After a favorable response is noted, the proper maintenance dosage should be determined by decreasing the initial drug dosage in small decrements at appropriate time intervals until the lowest dosage which will maintain an adequate clinical response is reached. It should be kept in mind that constant monitoring is needed in regard to drug dosage. Included in the situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process, the patient’s individual drug responsiveness and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease entity under treatment. In this latter situation it may be necessary to increase the dosage of dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection, USP for a period of time consistent with the patient’s condition. If after a long-term therapy the drug is to be stopped, it is recommended that it be withdrawn gradually rather than abruptly. B. Intra-articular, soft tissue or intralesional administration. The dose for instrasynovial administration is usually 2 to 4 mg for large joints and 0.8 to 1 mg for small joints. For soft tissue and bursal injections a dose of 2 to 4 mg is recommended. Ganglia require a dose of 1 to 2 mg. A dose of 0.4 to 1 mg is used for injection into tendon sheaths. Injection into intervertebral joints should not be attempted at any time and hip joint injection cannot be recommended as an office procedure. Intrasynovial and soft tissue injections should be employed only when affected areas are limited to 1 or 2 sites. It should be remembered that corticoids provide palliation only and that other conventional or curative methods of therapy should be employed when indicated. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Frequency of injection usually ranges from once every 3 to 5 days to once every 2 to 3 weeks. Frequent intra-articular injection may cause damage to joint tissue. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection, 4 mg per mL– For intravenous, intramuscular, intra-articular, intralesional, and soft tissue injection. Dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection can be given directly from the vial, or it can be added to Sodium Chloride Injection or Dextrose Injection and administered by intravenous drip. Solutions used for intravenous administration or further dilution of this product should be preservative free when used in the neonate, especially the premature infant. When it is mixed with an infusion solution, sterile precautions should be observed. Since infusion solutions generally do not contain preservatives, mixtures should be used within 24 hours. DOSAGE REQUIREMENTS ARE VARIABLE AND MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED ON THE BASIS OF THE DISEASE AND THE RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT. Intravenous and Intramuscular Injection: The initial dosage of dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection varies from 0.5 to 9 mg a day depending on the disease being treated. In less severe diseases doses lower than 0.5 mg may suffice, while in severe diseases doses higher than 9 mg may be required. The initial dosage should be maintained or adjusted until the patient’s response is satisfactory. If a satisfactory clinical response does not occur after a reasonable period of time, discontinue dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection and transfer the patient to other therapy. After a favorable initial response, the proper maintenance dosage should be determined by decreasing the initial dosage in small amounts to the lowest dosage that maintains an adequate clinical response. Patients should be observed closely for signs that might require dosage adjustment, including changes in clinical status resulting from remissions or exacerbations of the disease, individual drug responsiveness, and the effect of stress (e.g., surgery, infection, trauma). During stress it may be necessary to increase dosage temporarily. If the drug is to be stopped after more than a few days of treatment, it usually should be withdrawn gradually. When the intravenous route of administration is used, dosage usually should be the same as the oral dosage. In certain overwhelming, acute, life-threatening situations, however, administration in dosages exceeding the usual dosages may be justified and may be in multiples of the oral dosages. The slower rate of absorption by intramuscular administration should be recognized. Shock There is a tendency in current medical practice to use high (pharmacologic) doses of corticosteroids for the treatment of unresponsive shock. The following dosages of dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection have been suggested by various authors: Author Dosage Cavanagh 1 3 mg/kg of body weight per 24 hours by constant intravenous infusion after an initial intravenous injection of 20 mg Dietzman 2 2 to 6 mg/kg of body weight as a single intravenous injection Frank 3 40 mg initially followed by repeat intravenous injection every 4 to 6 hours while shock persists Oaks 4 40 mg initially followed by repeat intravenous injection every 2 to 6 hours while shock persists Schumer 5 1 mg/kg of body weight as a single intravenous injection Administration of high dose corticosteroid therapy should be continued only until the patient’s condition has stabilized and usually not longer than 48 to 72 hours. Although adverse reactions associated with high dose, short term corticosteroid therapy are uncommon, peptic ulceration may occur. Cerebral Edema Dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection is generally administered initially in a dosage of 10 mg intravenously followed by four mg every six hours intramuscularly until the symptoms of cerebral edema subside. For palliative management of patients with recurrent or inoperable brain tumors, maintenance therapy with two mg two or three times a day may be effective. Acute Allergic Disorders In acute, self-limited allergic disorders or acute exacerbations of chronic allergic disorders, the following dosage schedule combining parenteral and oral therapy is suggested: Dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection, 4 mg per mL: first day , 1 or 2 mL (4 or 8 mg), intramuscularly. Dexamethasone tablets, 0.75 mg: second and third days, 4 tablets in two divided doses each day; fourth day, 2 tablets in two divided doses; fifth and sixth days, 1 tablet each day; seventh day, no treatment; eighth day, follow-up visit. This schedule is designed to ensure adequate therapy during acute episodes, while minimizing the risk of overdosage in chronic cases. Intra-articular, Intralesional and Soft Tissue Injection: Intra-articular, intralesional, and soft tissue injections are generally employed when the affected joints or areas are limited to one or two sites. Dosage and frequency of injection varies depending on the condition and the site of injection. The usual dose is from 0.2 to 6 mg. The frequency usually ranges from once every three to five days to once every two to three weeks. Frequent intra-articular injection may result in damage to joint tissues. Some of the usual single doses are: Site of Injection Amount of Dexamethasone Phosphate (mg) Large Joints (e.g., Knee) 2 to 4 Small Joints (e.g., Interphalangeal, Temporomandibular) 0.8 to 1 Bursae 2 to 3 Tendon Sheaths 0.4 to 1 Soft Tissue Infiltration 2 to 6 Ganglia 1 to 2 Dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection is particularly recommended for use in conjunction with one of the less soluble, longer-acting steroids for intra-articular and soft tissue injection. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever the solution and container permit. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For oral administration DOSAGE REQUIREMENTS ARE VARIABLE AND MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED ON THE BASIS OF THE DISEASE AND THE RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT. The initial dosage varies from 0.75 to 9 mg a day depending on the disease being treated. In less severe diseases doses lower than 0.75 mg may suffice, while in severe diseases doses higher than 9 mg may be required. The initial dosage should be maintained or adjusted until the patient's response is satisfactory. If satisfactory clinical response does not occur after a reasonable period of time, discontinue dexamethasone elixir and transfer the patient to other therapy. The following milligram equivalents facilitate changing to dexamethasone elixir from other glucocorticoids: DEXAMETHASONE ELIXIR METHYLPREDNISOLONE AND TRIAMCINOLONE PREDNISOLONE AND PREDNISONE HYDROCORTISONE CORTISONE 0.75 mg = 4 mg = 5 mg = 20 mg = 25 mg Dexamethasone suppression tests Tests for Cushing's syndrome Give 1 mg of dexamethasone orally at 11:00 p.m. Twenty-four hour urine collections are made for determination of 17-hydroxycorticosteroid excretion. Test to distinguish Cushing's syndrome due to pituitary ACTH excess from Cushing's syndrome due to other causes. Give 2 mg of dexamethasone orally every 6 hours for 48 hours. For Oral Administration The initial dosage varies from 0.75 mg to 9 mg a day depending on the disease being treated. In this latter situation, it may be necessary to increase the dosage of the corticosteroid for a period of time consistent with the patient's condition. In the treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis, daily doses of 30 mg of dexamethasone for a week followed by 4 mg to 12 mg every other day for one month have been shown to be effective (see PRECAUTIONS, Neuro-psychiatric). The range of initial doses is 0.02 mg to 0.3 mg/kg/day in three or four divided doses (0.6 mg to 9 mg/m2 bsa/day). For the purpose of comparison, the following is the equivalent milligram dosage of the various corticosteroids: Cortisone, 25 mg Triamcinolone, 4 mg Hydrocortisone, 20 mg Paramethasone, 2 mg Prednisolone, 5 mg Betamethasone, 0.75 mg Prednisone, 5 mg Dexamethasone, 0.75 mg Methylprednisolone, 4 mg These dose relationships apply only to oral or intravenous administration of these compounds. In cerebral edema, dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection is generally administered initially in a dosage of 10 mg intravenously followed by 4 mg every six hours intramuscularly until the symptoms of cerebral edema subside. For palliative management of patients with recurrent or inoperable brain tumors, maintenance therapy with either dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection or dexamethasone tablets in a dosage of 2 mg two or three times daily may be effective. Dexamethasone Suppression Tests Tests for Cushing’s syndrome Give 1 mg of dexamethasone orally at 11:00 p.m. the following morning.For greater accuracy, give 0.5 mg of dexamethasone orally every 6 hours for 48 hours. Twenty- four-hour urine collections are made for determination of 17-hydroxycorticosteroid excretion. Twenty four-hour urine collections are made for determination of 17-hydroxycorticosteroid excretion. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION For Oral Administration The initial dosage varies from 0.75 mg to 9 mg a day depending on the disease being treated. In the treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis, daily doses of 30 mg of dexamethasone for a week followed by 4 mg to 12 mg every other day for one month have been shown to be effective (see PRECAUTIONS, Neuro-psychiatric ). The range of initial doses is 0.02 mg to 0.3 mg/kg/day in three or four divided doses (0.6 mg to 9 mg/m 2 bsa/day). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: One or two drops instilled into the conjunctival sac(s) every four to six hours. During the initial 24 to 48 hours, the dosage may be increased to one or two drops every two (2) hours. Frequency should be decreased gradually as warranted by improvement in clinical signs. Care should be taken not to discontinue therapy prematurely. Not more than 20 mL should be prescribed initially and the prescription should not be refilled without further evaluation as outlined in PRECAUTIONS above. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One or two drops instilled into the conjunctival sac(s) every four to six hours.
Warnings: WARNINGS General Rare instances of anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Increased dosage of rapidly acting corticosteroids is indicated in patients on corticosteroid therapy subjected to any unusual stress before, during, and after the stressful situation. Cardio-Renal Average and large doses of corticosteroids can cause elevation of blood pressure, sodium and water retention, and increased excretion of potassium. These effects are less likely to occur with the synthetic derivatives except when used in large doses. Dietary salt restriction and potassium supplementation may be necessary. All corticosteroids increase calcium excretion. Literature reports suggest an apparent association between use of corticosteroids and left ventricular free wall rupture after a recent myocardial infarction; therefore, therapy with corticosteroids should be used with great caution in these patients. Endocrine Corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis suppression with the potential for corticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment. Adrenocortical insufficiency may result from too rapid withdrawal of corticosteroids and may be minimized by gradual reduction of dosage. This type of relative insufficiency may persist for months after discontinuation of therapy; therefore, in any situation of stress occurring during that period, hormone therapy should be reinstituted. If the patient is receiving steroids already, dosage may have to be increased. Metabolic clearance of corticosteroids is decreased in hypothyroid patients and increased in hyperthyroid patients. Changes in thyroid status of the patient may necessitate adjustment in dosage. Infections General: Patients who are on corticosteroids are more susceptible to infections than are healthy individuals. There may be decreased resistance and inability to localize infection when corticosteroids are used. Infection with any pathogen (viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan or helminthic) in any location of the body may be associated with the use of corticosteroids alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents. These infections may be mild to severe. With increasing doses of corticosteroids, the rate of occurrence of infectious complications increases. Corticosteroids may also mask some signs of current infection. Fungal Infections: Corticosteroids may exacerbate systemic fungal infections and therefore should not be used in the presence of such infections unless they are needed to control life-threatening drug reactions. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure (see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions: Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents ). Special Pathogens: Latent disease may be activated or there may be an exacerbation of intercurrent infections due to pathogens, including those caused by Amoeba, Candida, Cryptococcus, Mycobacterium, Nocardia, Pneumocystis, Toxoplasma. It is recommended that latent amebiasis or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating corticosteroid therapy in any patient who has spent time in the tropics or any patient with unexplained diarrhea. Similarly, corticosteroids should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides (threadworm) infestation. In such patients, corticosteroid- induced immunosuppression may lead to Strongyloides hyperinfection and dissemination with widespread larval migration, often accompanied by severe enterocolitis and potentially fatal gram-negative septicemia. Corticosteroids should not be used in cerebral malaria. Tuberculosis: The use of corticosteroids in active tuberculosis should be restricted to those cases of fulminating or disseminated tuberculosis in which the corticosteroid is used for the management of the disease in conjunction with an appropriate antituberculous regimen. If corticosteroids are indicated in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, close observation is necessary as reactivation of the disease may occur. During prolonged corticosteroid therapy, these patients should receive chemoprophylaxis. Vaccination: Administration of live or live, attenuated vaccines is contraindicated in patients receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids. Ki l ed or inactivated vaccines may be administered. However, the response to such vaccines cannot be predicted. Immunization procedures may be undertaken in patients who are receiving corticosteroids as replacement therapy, e.g., for Addison's disease. Viral infections: Chickenpox and measles can have a more serious or even fatal course in pediatric and adult patients on corticosteroids. In pediatric and adult patients who have not had these diseases, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If exposed to measles, prophylaxis with immune globulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for VZIG and IG for complete prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents should be considered. Ophthalmic: Use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts, glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves, and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to bacteria, fungi, or viruses. The use of oral corticosteroids is not recommended in the treatment of optic neuritis and may lead to an increase in the risk of new episodes. Corticosteroids should not be used in active ocular herpes simplex. WARNINGS Serious Neurologic Adverse Reactions with Epidural Administration Serious neurologic events, some resulting in death, have been reported with epidural injection of corticosteroids. Specific events reported include, but are not limited to, spinal cord infarction, paraplegia, quadriplegia, cortical blindness, and stroke. These serious neurologic events have been reported with and without use of fluoroscopy. The safety and effectiveness of epidural administration of corticosteroids have not been established, and corticosteroids are not approved for this use. In patients on corticosteroid therapy subject to any unusual stress, increased dosage of rapidly acting corticosteroids before, during and after the stressful situation is indicated. Immunosuppression and Increased Risk of Infection Corticosteroids, including Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate, suppress the immune system and increase the risk of infection with any pathogen, including viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan, or helminthic pathogens. Corticosteroids can: Reduce resistance to new infections Exacerbate existing infections Increase the risk of disseminated infections Increase the risk of reactivation or exacerbation of latent infections Mask some signs of infection Corticosteroid-associated infections can be mild but can be severe and at times fatal. The rate of infectious complications increases with increasing corticosteroid dosages. Monitor for the development of infection and consider Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate withdrawal or dosage reduction as needed. Tuberculosis If Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate is used to treat a condition in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, tuberculosis may occur. Closely monitor such patients for reactivation. During prolonged therapy, patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity should receive chemoprophylaxis. Varicella Zoster and Measles Viral Infections Varicella and measles can have a serious or even fatal course in non-immune patients taking corticosteroids, including Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate. In corticosteroid-treated patients who have not had these diseases or are non- immune, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure to varicella and measles: If a Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate -treated patient is exposed to varicella, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin may be indicated. If varicella develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. If a Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate -treated patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with immunoglobulin may be indicated. Hepatitis B Virus Reactivation Hepatitis B virus reactivation can occur in patients who are hepatitis B carriers treated with immunosuppressive dosages of corticosteroids, including Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate. Reactivation can also occur infrequently in corticosteroid-treated patients who appear to have resolved hepatitis B infection. Screen patients for hepatitis B infection before initiating immunosuppressive (e.g., prolonged) treatment with Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate. For patients who show evidence of hepatitis B infection, recommend consultation with physicians with expertise in managing hepatitis B regarding monitoring and consideration for hepatitis B antiviral therapy. Fungal Infections Corticosteroids, including Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate, may exacerbate systemic fungal infections; therefore, avoid Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate use in the presence of such infections unless Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate is needed to control drug reactions. For patients on chronic Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate therapy who develop systemic fungal infections, Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate withdrawal or dosage reduction is recommended. Amebiasis Corticosteroids, including Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate, may activate latent amebiasis. Therefore, it is recommended that latent amebiasis or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate in patients who have spent time in the tropics or patients with unexplained diarrhea. Strongyloides Infestation Corticosteroids, including Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate, should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides (threadworm) infestation. In such patients, corticosteroid-induced immunosuppression may lead to Strongyloides hyperinfection and dissemination with widespread larval migration, often accompanied by severe enterocolitis and potentially fatal gram-negative septicemia. Cerebral Malaria Avoid corticosteroids, including Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate, in patients with cerebral malaria. Kaposi’s Sarcoma Kaposi’s sarcoma has been reported to occur in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy, most often for chronic conditions. Discontinuation of corticosteroids may result in clinical improvement of Kaposi’s sarcoma. Prolonged use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts, glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves, and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to fungi or viruses. Usage in Pregnancy Since adequate human reproduction studies have not been done with corticosteroids, use of these drugs in pregnancy, nursing mothers or women of childbearing potential requires that the possible benefits of the drug be weighed against the potential hazards to the mother and embryo or fetus. Infants born of mothers who have received substantial doses of corticosteroids during pregnancy should be carefully observed for signs of hypoadrenalism. Average and large doses of cortisone or hydrocortisone can cause elevation of blood pressure, salt and water retention, and increased excretion of potassium. Patients with a stressed myocardium should be observed carefully and the drug administered slowly since premature ventricular contractions may occur with rapid administration. While on corticosteroid therapy patients should not be vaccinated against smallpox. Other immunization procedures should not be undertaken in patients who are on corticosteroids, especially in high doses, because of possible hazards of neurological complications and lack of antibody response. The use of Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate Injection in active tuberculosis should be restricted to those cases of fulminating or disseminated tuberculosis in which the corticosteroid is used for the management of the disease in conjunction with an appropriate anti-tuberculosis regimen. Because rare instances of anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in patients receiving parenteral corticosteroid therapy, appropriate precautionary measures should be taken prior to administration, especially when the patient has a history of allergy to any drug. Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate Injection contains sodium sulfite, a sulfite that may cause allergic type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people. The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low. Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people. WARNINGS: Because rare instances of anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in patients receiving parenteral corticosteroid therapy, appropriate precautionary measures should be taken prior to administration, especially when the patient has a history of allergy to any drug. Anaphylactoid and hypersensitivity reactions have been reported for dexamethasone sodium phosphate (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection contains sodium bisulfite, a sulfite that may cause allergic-type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people. Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in non-asthmatic people. Corticosteroids may exacerbate systemic fungal infections and therefore, should not be used in the presence of such infections unless they are needed to control drug reactions due to amphotericin B. Moreover, there have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive failure. In patients on corticosteroid therapy subjected to any unusual stress, increased dosage of rapidly acting corticosteroids before, during, and after the stressful situation is indicated. Drug-induced secondary adrenocortical insufficiency may result from too rapid withdrawal of corticosteroids and may be minimized by gradual reduction of dosage. Since mineralocorticoid secretion may be impaired, salt and/or a mineralocorticoid should be administered concurrently. Corticosteroids may mask some signs of infection, and new infections may appear during their use. Moreover, corticosteroids may affect the nitroblue-tetrazolium test for bacterial infection and produce false negative results. In cerebral malaria, a double-blind trial has shown that the use of corticosteroids is associated with prolongation of coma and a higher incidence of pneumonia and gastrointestinal bleeding. Corticosteroids may activate latent amebiasis. Therefore, it is recommended that latent or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating corticosteroid therapy in any patient who has spent time in the tropics or any patient with unexplained diarrhea. Administration of live virus vaccines, including smallpox, is contraindicated in individuals receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids. If inactivated viral or bacterial vaccines are administered to individuals receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids, the expected serum antibody response may not be obtained. However, immunization procedures may be undertaken in patients who are receiving corticosteroids as replacement therapy, e.g., for Addison’s disease. Persons who are on drugs which suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in non-immune children or adults on corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route and duration of corticosteroid administration affects the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. If exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information). If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. The use of dexamethasone sodium phosphate in active tuberculosis should be restricted to those cases of fulminating or disseminated tuberculosis in which the corticosteroid is used for the management of the disease in conjunction with an appropriate antituberculous regimen. Serious Neurologic Adverse Reactions with Epidural Administration Serious neurologic events, some resulting in death, have been reported with epidural injection of corticosteroids. The safety and effectiveness of epidural administration of corticosteroids has not been established, and corticosteroids are not approved for this use. Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects: Pregnancy Category C– Since adequate human reproduction studies have not been done with corticosteroids, use of these drugs in pregnancy or in women of childbearing potential requires that the anticipated benefits be weighed against the possible hazards to the mother and embryo or fetus. Corticosteroids appear in breast milk and could suppress growth, interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production, or cause other unwanted effects. Mothers taking pharmacologic doses of corticosteroids should be advised not to nurse. WARNINGS In patients on corticosteroid therapy subjected to unusual stress, increased dosage of rapidly acting corticosteroids before, during, and after the stressful situation is indicated. Immunosuppression and Increased Risk of Infection. Corticosteroids, including dexamethasone elixir, suppress the immune system and increase the risk of infection with any pathogen, including viral, bacterial,fungal, protozoan, or helminthic pathogens. Monitor for the development of infection and consider dexamethasone elixir withdrawal or dosage reduction as needed. Tuberculosis If dexamethasone elixir is used to treat a condition in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, reactivation of tuberculosis may occur.Closely monitor such patients for reactivation. During prolonged dexamethasone elixir therapy, patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity should receive chemoprophylaxis. Varicella Zoster and Measles Viral Infections Varicella and measles can have a serious or even fatal course in non-immune patients taking corticosteroids, including dexamethasone elixir. In corticosteroid-treated patients who have not had these diseases or are nonimmune, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure to varicella and measles: If a dexamethasone elixir-treated patient is exposed to varicella, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin may be indicated. If a dexamethasone elixir-treated patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with immunoglobulin may be indicated. Hepatitis B Virus Reactivation Hepatitis B virus reactivation can occur in patients who are hepatitis B carriers treated with immunosuppressive dosages of corticosteroids, including dexamethasone elixir. Screen patients for hepatitis B infection before initiating immunosuppressive (e.g., prolonged) treatment with dexamethasone elixir. Fungal Infections Corticosteroids, including dexamethasone elixir, may exacerbate systemic fungal infections; therefore, avoid dexamethasone elixir use in the presence of such infections unless dexamethasone elixir is needed to control drug reactions. For patients on chronic dexamethasone elixir therapy who develop systemic fungal infections, dexamethasone elixir withdrawal or dosage reduction is recommended. Amebiasis Corticosteroids, including dexamethasone elixir, may activate latent amebiasis. Therefore, it is recommended that latent amebiasis or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating dexamethasone elixir in patients who have spent time in the tropics or patients with unexplained diarrhea. Strongyloides Infestation Corticosteroids, including dexamethasone elixir, should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides (threadworm) infestation. Cerebral Malaria Avoid corticosteroids, including dexamethasone elixir, in patients with cerebral malaria. Discontinuation of corticosteroids may result in clinical improvement of Kaposi’s sarcoma Drug-induced secondary adrenocortical insufficiency may result from too rapid withdrawal of corticosteroids and may be minimized by gradual reduction of dosage. Usage in Pregnancy: Since adequate human reproduction studies have not been done with corticosteroids, use of these drugs in pregnancy or in women of childbearing potential requires that the anticipated benefits be weighed against the possible hazards to the mother and embryo or fetus. Average and large doses of hydrocortisone or cortisone can cause elevation of blood pressure, salt and water retention and increased excretion of potassium. However, immunization procedures may be undertaken in patients who are receiving corticosteroids as replacement therapy, e.g., for Addison's disease. General Rare instances of anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy (see ADVERSE REACTIONS). Endocrine Corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment. Infections General Patients who are on corticosteroids are more susceptible to infections than are healthy individuals. Fungal Infections Corticosteroids may exacerbate systemic fungal infections and therefore should not be used in the presence of such infections unless they are needed to control life-threatening drug reactions. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions, Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents). Special Pathogens Latent disease may be activated or there may be an exacerbation of intercurrent infections due to pathogens, including those caused by Amoeba, Candida, Cryptococcus, Mycobacterium, Nocardia, Pneumocystis, Toxoplasma. Tuberculosis The use of corticosteroids in active tuberculosis should be restricted to those cases of fulminating or disseminated tuberculosis in which the corticosteroid is used for the management of the disease in conjunction with an appropriate antituberculous regimen. Vaccination Administration of live or live, attenuated vaccines is contraindicated in patients receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids. Killed or inactivated vaccines may be administered. Viral Infections Chickenpox and measles can have a more serious or even fatal course in pediatric and adult patients on corticosteroids. Ophthalmic Use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts, glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves, and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to bacteria, fungi, or viruses. Consider referral to an ophthalmologist for patients who develop ocular symptoms or use corticosteroid-containing products for more than 6 weeks. WARNINGS General Rare instances of anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy (see ADVERSE REACTIONS). Immunosuppression and Increased Risk of Infection Corticosteroids, including dexamethasone, suppress the immune system and increase the risk of infection with any pathogen, including viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan, or helminthic pathogens. Monitor for the development of infection and consider dexamethasone withdrawal or dosage reduction as needed. Do not administer dexamethasone by an intraarticular, intrabursal, intratendinous, or intralesional route in the presence of acute local infection. Tuberculosis If dexamethasone is used to treat a condition in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, reactivation of tuberculosis may occur. During prolonged dexamethasone therapy, patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity should receive chemoprophylaxis. Varicella Zoster and Measles Viral Infections Varicella and measles can have a serious or even fatal course in non-immune patients taking corticosteroids, including dexamethasone. In corticosteroid treated patients who have not had these diseases or are non-immune, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure to varicella and measles: If a dexamethasone-treated patient is exposed to varicella, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin may be indicated. If a dexamethasone-treated patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with immunoglobulin may be indicated. Hepatitis B Virus Reactivation Hepatitis B virus reactivation can occur in patients who are hepatitis B carriers treated with immunosuppressive dosages of corticosteroids, including dexamethasone. Screen patients for hepatitis B infection before initiating immunosuppressive (e.g., prolonged) treatment with dexamethasone. Fungal Infections Corticosteroids, including dexamethasone, may exacerbate systemic fungal infections; therefore, avoid dexamethasone use in the presence of such infections unless dexamethasone is needed to control drug reactions. For patients on chronic dexamethasone therapy who develop systemic fungal infections, dexamethasone withdrawal or dosage reduction is recommended. Amebiasis Corticosteroids, including dexamethasone, may activate latent amebiasis. Therefore, it is recommended that latent amebiasis or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating dexamethasone in patients who have spent time in the tropics or patients with unexplained diarrhea. Strongyloides Infestation Corticosteroids, including dexamethasone, should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides (threadworm) infestation. In such patients, corticosteroid-induced immunosuppression may lead to Strongyloides hyperinfection and dissemination with widespread larval migration, often accompanied by severe enterocolitis and potentially fatal gram- negative septicemia. Cerebral Malaria Avoid corticosteroids, including dexamethasone, in patients with cerebral malaria. Kaposi’s Sarcoma Kaposi's sarcoma has been reported to occur in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy, most often for chronic conditions. WARNINGS: FOR EYE USE ONLY. NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE. Sensitivity to topically applied aminoglycosides may occur in some patients. Severity of hypersensitivity reactions may vary from local effects to generalized reactions, such as erythema, itching, urticaria, skin rash, anaphylaxis, anaphylactoid reactions, or bullous reactions. If a sensitivity reaction does occur, discontinue use. Prolonged use of steroids may result in glaucoma, with damage to the optic nerve, defects in visual acuity and fields of vision, and posterior subcapsular cataract formation. Intraocular pressure (IOP) should be routinely monitored even though it may be difficult in pediatric patients and uncooperative patients. Prolonged use may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections. In acute purulent conditions and parasitic infections of the eye, steroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection. In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera, perforations have been known to occur with the use of topical steroids. WARNINGS FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Contraindicated in systemic fungal infections (see WARNINGS : Infections: Fungal Infections ) and patients with known hypersensitivity to the product and its consituents. CONTRAINDICATIONS Systemic fungal infections. CONTRAINDICATIONS: Systemic fungal infections (see WARNINGS regarding amphotericin B). Hypersensitivity to any component of this product, including sulfites (see WARNINGS ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Contraindicated in patients with known systemic fungal infections (See WARNINGS: Infections: Fungal Infections) and patients with a known sensitivity to this drug. Systemic fungal infections (see WARNINGS, Fungal Infections). Dexamethasone tablets are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any components of this product. CONTRAINDICATIONS Systemic fungal infections (see WARNINGS, Fungal Infections). CONTRAINDICATIONS: Epithelial herpes simplex keratitis (dendritic keratitis), vaccinia, varicella, and many other viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva. Mycobacterial infection of the eye. Fungal diseases of ocular structures. Hypersensitivity to a component of the medication. CONTRAINDICATIONS Epithelial herpes simplex keratitis (dendritic keratitis), vaccinia, varicella, and many other viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactio ns Aminoglutethimide: Aminoglutethimide may diminish adrenal suppression by corticosteroids. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents: When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (e.g., amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. In addition, there have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics: Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see Drug Interactions: Hepatic Enzyme Inducers, Inhibitors and Substrates ). Anticholinesterases: Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, Oral: Co-administration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics: Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular Drugs: Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine: Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine: Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Dexamethasone Suppression Test (DST): False-negative results in the dexamethasone suppression test (DST) in patients being treated with indomethacin have been reported. Thus, results of the DST should be interpreted with caution in these patients. Digitalis Glycosides: Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Ephedrine: Ephedrine may enhance the metabolic clearance of corticosteroids, resulting in decreased blood levels and lessened physiologic activity, thus requiring an increase in corticosteroid dosage. Estrogens, including Oral Contraceptives: Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers, Inhibitors and Substrates: Drugs which induce cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP 3A4) enzyme activity (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin) may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Drugs which inhibit CYP 3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole, macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin) have the potential to result in increased plasma concentrations of corticosteroids. Dexamethasone is a moderate inducer of CYP 3A4. Co-adminstration with other drugs that are metabolized by CYP 3A4 (e.g., indinavir, erythromycin) may increase their clearance, resulting in decreased plasma concentration. Ketoconazole: Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. In addition, ketoconazole alone can inhibit adrenal corticosteroid synthesis and may cause adrenal insufficiency during corticosteroid withdrawal. Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents (NSAIDS): Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal ant i nflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Phenytoin: In post-marketing experience, there have been reports of both increases and decreases in phenytoin levels with dexamethasone co-administration, leading to alterations in seizure control. Skin Tests: Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Thalidomide: Co-administration with thalidomide should be employed cautiously, as toxic epidermal necrolysis has been reported with concomitant use. Vaccines: Patients on corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS : Infections: Vaccination ). DRUG INTERACTIONS Aminoglutethimide : Aminoglutethimide may diminish adrenal suppression by corticosteroids. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents : When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (e.g., amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. Antibiotics : Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see Drug Interactions, CYP 3A4 Inducers, CYP 3A4 Inhibitors, and CYP 3A4 Substrates ). Anticholinesterases : Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. Anticoagulants, oral : Co-administration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Antidiabetics : Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular drugs : Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine : Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine : Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Dexamethasone suppression test (DST) : False-negative results in the dexamethasone suppression test (DST) in patients being treated with indomethacin have been reported. Digitalis glycosides : Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Ephedrine : Ephedrine may enhance the metabolic clearance of corticosteroids, resulting in decreased blood levels and lessened physiologic activity, thus requiring an increase in corticosteroid dosage. Estrogens, including oral contraceptives : Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. CYP 3A4 Inducers: Dexamethasone is metabolized by CYP 3A4. Drugs which induce cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP 3A4) enzyme activity (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin) may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. CYP 3A4 Inhibitors: Concomitant administration of dexamethasone with erythromycin, a moderate CYP 3A4 inhibitor, has the potential to result in increased plasma concentrations of dexamethasone. Ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Co-administration with other drugs which strongly inhibit CYP 3A4 (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin, ritonavir, cobicistat-containing products) may lead to increased plasma concentrations of corticosteroids and potentially increase the risk for systemic corticosteroid side effects. Consider the benefit of co-administration versus the potential risk of systemic corticosteroid effects, in which case patients should be monitored for systemic corticosteroid side effects. CYP 3A4 Substrates: Dexamethasone is a moderate inducer of CYP 3A4. Co-administration with other drugs that are metabolized by CYP 3A4 (e.g., indinavir, erythromycin) may increase their clearance, resulting in decreased plasma concentration. Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents (NSAIDS) : Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti- inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Phenytoin : In post-marketing experience, there have been reports of both increases and decreases in phenytoin levels with dexamethasone co-administration, leading to alterations in seizure control. Skin Tests : Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Thalidomide : Co-administration with thalidomide should be employed cautiously, as toxic epidermal necrolysis has been reported with concomitant use. Vaccines : Patients on corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS, Infections, Vaccination ).

=== MIRTAZAPINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mirtazapine tablets are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults [see Clinical Studies (14) ]. Mirtazapine tablets are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults. ( 1 ) (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mirtazapine tablets are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mirtazapine tablets are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder. The efficacy of mirtazapine in the treatment of major depressive disorder was established in 6-week controlled trials of outpatients whose diagnoses corresponded most closely to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders-3rd edition (DSM-III) category of major depressive disorder (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). A major depressive episode (DSM-IV) implies a prominent and relatively persistent (nearly every day for at least 2 weeks) depressed or dysphoric mood that usually interferes with daily functioning, and includes at least 5 of the following 9 symptoms: depressed mood, loss of interest in usual activities, significant change in weight and/or appetite, insomnia or hypersomnia, psychomotor agitation or retardation, increased fatigue, feelings of guilt or worthlessness, slowed thinking or impaired concentration, a suicide attempt, or suicidal ideation. The effectiveness of mirtazapine in hospitalized depressed patients has not been adequately studied. The efficacy of mirtazapine in maintaining a response in patients with major depressive disorder for up to 40 weeks following 8 to 12 weeks of initial open-label treatment was demonstrated in a placebo-controlled trial. Nevertheless, the physician who elects to use mirtazapine for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ).
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Starting dose: 15 mg once daily; may increase up to maximum recommended dose of 45 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) • Administer orally once daily, preferably in the evening prior to sleep. ( 2.1 ) • Reduce dose gradually when discontinuing mirtazapine tablets. ( 2.6 , 5.13 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage The recommended starting dose of mirtazapine tablets is 15 mg once daily, administered orally, preferably in the evening prior to sleep. If patients do not have an adequate response to the initial 15 mg dose, increase the dose up to a maximum of 45 mg per day. Dose changes should not be made in intervals of less than 1 to 2 weeks to allow sufficient time for evaluation of response to a given dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.3 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Mirtazapine Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with mirtazapine tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. 2.4 Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor Antidepressant At least 14 days must elapse between discontinuation of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) antidepressant and initiation of mirtazapine tablets. In addition, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping mirtazapine tablets before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. 2.5 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Strong CYP3A Inducers An increase in dosage of mirtazapine tablets may be needed with concomitant strong CYP3A inducer (e.g., carbamazepine, phenytoin, rifampin) use. Conversely, a decrease in dosage of mirtazapine tablets may be needed if the CYP3A inducer is discontinued [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Strong CYP3A Inhibitors A decrease in dosage of mirtazapine tablets may be needed with concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, clarithromycin). Conversely, an increase in dosage of mirtazapine tablets may be needed if the CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Cimetidine A decrease in dosage of mirtazapine tablets may be needed with concomitant use of cimetidine. Conversely, an increase in dosage of mirtazapine tablets may be needed if cimetidine is discontinued [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. 2.6 Discontinuation of Mirtazapine Tablets Treatment Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation or dose reduction of mirtazapine tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ]. Gradually reduce the dosage of mirtazapine tablets rather than stopping abruptly whenever possible. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Starting dose: 15 mg once daily; may increase up to maximum recommended dose of 45 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) Administer orally once daily, preferably in the evening prior to sleep. ( 2.1 ) Reduce dose gradually when discontinuing mirtazapine tablets. ( 2.6 , 5.14 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage The recommended starting dose of mirtazapine tablets is 15 mg once daily, administered orally, preferably in the evening prior to sleep. 2.3 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Mirtazapine Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with mirtazapine tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ]. 2.6 Discontinuation of Mirtazapine Tablets Treatment Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation or dose reduction of mirtazapine tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Starting dose: 15-mg once daily; may increase up to maximum recommended dose of 45 mg once daily. (2.1) • Administer orally once daily, preferably in the evening prior to sleep. (2.1) • Reduce dose gradually when discontinuing mirtazapine tablets. Dose changes should not be made in intervals of less than 1 to 2 weeks to allow sufficient time for evaluation of response to a given dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2.3 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Mirtazapine Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with mirtazapine tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. In addition, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping mirtazapine tablets before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Conversely, a decrease in dosage of mirtazapine tablets may be needed if the CYP3A inducer is discontinued [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Conversely, an increase in dosage of mirtazapine tablets may be needed if the CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Conversely, an increase in dosage of mirtazapine tablets may be needed if cimetidine is discontinued [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 2.6 Discontinuation of Mirtazapine Tablets Treatment Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation or dose reduction of mirtazapine tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)]. Dose changes should not be made in intervals of less than 1 to 2 weeks to allow sufficient time for evaluation of response to a given dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . In addition, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping mirtazapine tablets before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . 2.6 Discontinuation of Mirtazapine Tablet Treatment Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation or dose reduction of mirtazapine tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) ] . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Initial Treatment The recommended starting dose for mirtazapine tablets is 15 mg/day, administered in a single dose, preferably in the evening prior to sleep. In the controlled clinical trials establishing the efficacy of mirtazapine in the treatment of major depressive disorder, the effective dose range was generally 15 to 45 mg/day. While the relationship between dose and satisfactory response in the treatment of major depressive disorder for mirtazapine has not been adequately explored, patients not responding to the initial 15 mg dose may benefit from dose increases up to a maximum of 45 mg/day. Mirtazapine has an elimination half-life of approximately 20 to 40 hours; therefore, dose changes should not be made at intervals of less than 1 to 2 weeks in order to allow sufficient time for evaluation of the therapeutic response to a given dose. Elderly and Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment The clearance of mirtazapine is reduced in elderly patients and in patients with moderate to severe renal or hepatic impairment. Consequently, the prescriber should be aware that plasma mirtazapine levels may be increased in these patient groups, compared to levels observed in younger adults without renal or hepatic impairment (see PRECAUTIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Maintenance/Extended Treatment It is generally agreed that acute episodes of depression require several months or longer of sustained pharmacological therapy beyond response to the acute episode. Systematic evaluation of mirtazapine tablets has demonstrated that its efficacy in major depressive disorder is maintained for periods of up to 40 weeks following 8 to 12 weeks of initial treatment at a dose of 15 to 45 mg/day (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Based on these limited data, it is unknown whether or not the dose of mirtazapine needed for maintenance treatment is identical to the dose needed to achieve an initial response. Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment. Switching a Patient To or From a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with mirtazapine tablets. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping mirtazapine tablets before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Use of Mirtazapine Tablets With Other MAOIs, Such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start mirtazapine tablets in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). In some cases, a patient already receiving therapy with mirtazapine tabletsmay require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, mirtazapine tabletsshould be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. The patient should be monitored for symptoms of serotonin syndrome for 2 weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, whichever comes first. Therapy with mirtazapine tabletsmay be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue (see WARNINGS ). The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with mirtazapine tabletsis unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use (see WARNINGS ). Discontinuation of Mirtazapine Tablets Treatment Symptoms associated with the discontinuation or dose reduction of mirtazapine tablets have been reported. Patients should be monitored for these and other symptoms when discontinuing treatment or during dosage reduction. A gradual reduction in the dose over several weeks, rather than abrupt cessation, is recommended whenever possible. If intolerable symptoms occur following a decrease in the dose or upon discontinuation of treatment, dose titration should be managed on the basis of the patient’s clinical response (see PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Information for Patients Patients should be advised that taking mirtazapine tablets can cause mild pupillary dilation, which in susceptible individuals, can lead to an episode of angle-closure glaucoma. Pre-existing glaucoma is almost always open-angle glaucoma because angle-closure glaucoma, when diagnosed, can be treated definitively with iridectomy. Open-angle glaucoma is not a risk factor for angle-closure glaucoma. Patients may wish to be examined to determine whether they are susceptible to angle-closure, and have a prophylactic procedure (e.g., iridectomy), if they are susceptible.
Warnings: WARNINGS Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Patients with major depressive disorder (MDD), both adult and pediatric, may experience worsening of their depression and/or the emergence of suicidal ideation and behavior (suicidality) or unusual changes in behavior, whether or not they are taking antidepressant medications, and this risk may persist until significant remission occurs. Suicide is a known risk of depression and certain other psychiatric disorders, and these disorders themselves are the strongest predictors of suicide. There has been a long-standing concern, however, that antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment. Pooled analyses of short-term placebo-controlled trials of antidepressant drugs (SSRIs and others) showed that these drugs increase the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents, and young adults (ages 18 to 24) with major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. Short-term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24; there was a reduction in risk with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older. The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in children and adolescents with MDD, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 24 short-term trials of 9 antidepressant drugs in over 4400 patients. The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in adults with MDD or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 295 short-term trials (median duration of 2 months) of 11 antidepressant drugs in over 77,000 patients. There was considerable variation in risk of suicidality among drugs, but a tendency toward an increase in the younger patients for almost all drugs studied. There were differences in absolute risk of suicidality across different indications, with the highest incidence in MDD. The risk differences (drug vs. placebo), however, were relatively stable within age strata and across indications. These risk differences (drug-placebo difference in the number of cases of suicidality per 1000 patients treated) are provided in Table 1. Table 1 Age Range Drug-Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo <18 14 additional cases 18-24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25-64 1 fewer case > 65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. There were suicides in the adult trials, but the number was not sufficient to reach any conclusion about drug effect on suicide. It is unknown whether the suicidality risk extends to longer-term use, i.e., beyond several months. However, there is substantial evidence from placebo-controlled maintenance trials in adults with depression that the use of antidepressants can delay the recurrence of depression. All patients being treated with antidepressants for any indication should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening, suicidality, and unusual changes in behavior, especially during the initial few months of a course of drug therapy, or at times of dose changes, either increases or decreases. The following symptoms, anxiety, agitation, panic attacks, insomnia, irritability, hostility, aggressiveness, impulsivity, akathisia (psychomotor restlessness), hypomania, and mania, have been reported in adult and pediatric patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder as well as for other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric. Although a causal link between the emergence of such symptoms and either the worsening of depression and/or the emergence of suicidal impulses has not been established, there is concern that such symptoms may represent precursors to emerging suicidality. Consideration should be given to changing the therapeutic regimen, including possibly discontinuing the medication, in patients whose depression is persistently worse, or who are experiencing emergent suicidality or symptoms that might be precursors to worsening depression or suicidality, especially if these symptoms are severe, abrupt in onset, or were not part of the patient's presenting symptoms. Families and caregivers of patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder or other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric, should be alerted about the need to monitor patients for the emergence of agitation, irritability, unusual changes in behavior, and the other symptoms described above, as well as the emergence of suicidality, and to report such symptoms immediately to health care providers. Such monitoring should include daily observation by families and caregivers. Prescriptions for mirtazapine tablets should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management, in order to reduce the risk of overdose. Screening Patients for Bipolar Disorder: A major depressive episode may be the initial presentation of bipolar disorder. It is generally believed (though not established in controlled trials) that treating such an episode with an antidepressant alone may increase the likelihood of precipitation of a mixed/manic episode in patients at risk for bipolar disorder. Whether any of the symptoms described above represent such a conversion is unknown. However, prior to initiating treatment with an antidepressant, patients with depressive symptoms should be adequately screened to determine if they are at risk for bipolar disorder; such screening should include a detailed psychiatric history, including a family history of suicide, bipolar disorder, and depression. It should be noted that mirtazapine tablets are not approved for use in treating bipolar depression. Agranulocytosis In premarketing clinical trials, 2 (1 with Sjögren’s Syndrome) out of 2796 patients treated with mirtazapine tablets developed agranulocytosis [absolute neutrophil count (ANC) < 500/mm 3 with associated signs and symptoms, e.g., fever, infection, etc.] and a third patient developed severe neutropenia (ANC < 500/mm 3 without any associated symptoms). For these 3 patients, onset of severe neutropenia was detected on days 61, 9, and 14 of treatment, respectively. All 3 patients recovered after mirtazapine was stopped. These 3 cases yield a crude incidence of severe neutropenia (with or without associated infection) of approximately 1.1 per thousand patients exposed, with a very wide 95% confidence interval, i.e., 2.2 cases per 10,000 to 3.1 cases per 1000. If a patient develops a sore throat, fever, stomatitis, or other signs of infection, along with a low WBC count, treatment with mirtazapine should be discontinued and the patient should be closely monitored. Serotonin Syndrome The development of a potentially life-threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with SNRIs and SSRIs, including mirtazapine, alone but particularly with concomitant use of other serotonergic drugs (including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone, and St. John's wort), and with drugs that impair metabolism of serotonin (in particular, MAOIs, both those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). Patients should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. The concomitant use of mirtazapine with MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders is contraindicated. Mirtazapine should also not be started in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. All reports with methylene blue that provided information on the route of administration involved intravenous administration in the dose range of 1 mg/kg to 8 mg/kg. No reports involved the administration of methylene blue by other routes (such as oral tablets or local tissue injection) or at lower doses. There may be circumstances when it is necessary to initiate treatment with an MAOI such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue in a patient taking mirtazapine. Mirtazapine should be discontinued before initiating treatment with the MAOI (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). If concomitant use of mirtazapine with other serotonergic drugs, including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, buspirone, tryptophan, and St. John's wort, is clinically warranted, be aware of a potential increased risk for serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Treatment with mirtazapine and any concomitant serotonergic agents should be discontinued immediately if the above events occur and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated. Angle-Closure Glaucoma The pupillary dilation that occurs following use of many antidepressant drugs including mirtazapine may trigger an angle-closure attack in a patient with anatomically narrow angles who does not have a patent iridectomy. QT Prolongation and Torsades de Pointes The effect of mirtazapine on QTc interval was assessed in a clinical randomized trial with placebo and positive (moxifloxacin) controls involving 54 healthy volunteers using exposure response analysis. This trial showed a positive relationship between mirtazapine concentrations and prolongation of the QTc interval. However, the degree of QT prolongation observed with both 45 mg (therapeutic) and 75 mg (supratherapeutic) doses of mirtazapine was not at a level generally considered to be clinically meaningful. During the postmarketing use of mirtazapine, cases of QT prolongation, Torsades de Pointes, ventricular tachycardia, and sudden death, have been reported (see ADVERSE REACTIONS). The majority of reports occurred in association with overdose or in patients with other risk factors for QT prolongation, including concomitant use of QTc-prolonging medicines (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions and OVERDOSE sections). Caution should be exercised when mirtazapine is prescribed in patients with known cardiovascular disease or family history of QT prolongation, and in concomitant use with other medicinal products thought to prolong the QTc interval.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mirtazapine tablets are contraindicated in patients: • Taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including the MAOIs linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Drug Interactions (7) ]. • With a known hypersensitivity to mirtazapine or to any of the excipients in mirtazapine tablets. Severe skin reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, bullous dermatitis, erythema multiforme and toxic epidermal necrolysis have been reported following the use of mirtazapine tablets [see Adverse Reactions 6.2 ]. • Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within 14 days of stopping MAOIs. ( 2.4 , 4 , 7 ) • Known hypersensitivity to mirtazapine or any of the excipients in mirtazapine tablets. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mirtazapine tablets are contraindicated in patients: Taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including the MAOIs linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Drug Interactions (7) ]. With a known hypersensitivity to mirtazapine or to any of the excipients in mirtazapine tablets. Severe skin reactions, including drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, bullous dermatitis, erythema multiforme and toxic epidermal necrolysis have been reported following the use of mirtazapine tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) , Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within 14 days of stopping MAOIs. ( 2.4 , 4 , 7 ) Known hypersensitivity to mirtazapine or any of the excipients in mirtazapine tablets. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mirtazapine tablets are contraindicated in patients: • Taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including the MAOIs linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Drug Interactions (7)]. Severe skin reactions, including drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, bullous dermatitis, erythema multiforme and toxic epidermal necrolysis have been reported following the use of mirtazapine tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) , Adverse Reactions (6.2)] . (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mirtazapine tablets are contraindicated in patients: Taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including the MAOIs linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Drug Interactions (7) ] . With a known hypersensitivity to mirtazapine or to any of the excipients in mirtazapine tablets . CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity Mirtazapine tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to mirtazapine or to any of the excipients. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors The use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) intended to treat psychiatric disorders with mirtazapine tablets or within 14 days of stopping treatment with mirtazapine tablets are contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of mirtazapine tablets within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Starting mirtazapine tablets in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ).
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 5 includes clinically important drug interactions with mirtazapine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 5: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Mirtazapine Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact The concomitant use of serotonergic drugs, including mirtazapine, and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Mirtazapine is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Examples selegiline, tranylcypromine, isocarboxazid, phenelzine, linezolid, methylene blue Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact The concomitant use of serotonergic drugs with mirtazapine increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of mirtazapine and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Examples SSRIs, SNRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, amphetamines, St. John’s Wort, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone Strong CYP3A Inducers Clinical Impact The concomitant use of strong CYP3A inducers with mirtazapine decreases the plasma concentration of mirtazapine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention Increase the dose of mirtazapine if needed with concomitant CYP3A inducer use. Conversely, a decrease in dosage of mirtazapine may be needed if the CYP3A inducer is discontinued [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Examples phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Clinical Impact The concomitant use of strong CYP3A inhibitors with mirtazapine may increase the plasma concentration of mirtazapine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention Decrease the dose of mirtazapine if needed with concomitant strong CYP3A inhibitor use. Conversely, an increase in dosage of mirtazapine may be needed if the CYP3A inhibitor is discontinued [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Examples itraconazole, ritonavir, nefazodone Cimetidine Clinical Impact The concomitant use of cimetidine, a CYP1A2, CYP2D6, and CYP3A inhibitor, with mirtazapine may increase the plasma concentration of mirtazapine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention Decrease the dose of mirtazapine if needed with concomitant cimetidine use. Conversely, an increase in dosage of mirtazapine may be needed if cimetidine is discontinued [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Benzodiazepines and Alcohol Clinical Impact The concomitant use of benzodiazepines or alcohol with mirtazapine increases the impairment of cognitive and motor skills produced by mirtazapine alone. Intervention Avoid concomitant use of benzodiazepines and alcohol with mirtazapine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Examples diazepam, alprazolam, alcohol Drugs that Prolong QTc Interval Clinical Impact The concomitant use of other drugs which prolong the QTc interval with mirtazapine, increase the risk of QTc prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias (e.g., Torsades de Pointes). Intervention Use caution when using mirtazapine concomitantly with drugs that prolong the QTc interval [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Warfarin Clinical Impact The concomitant use of warfarin with mirtazapine may result in an increase in INR [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention Monitor INR during concomitant use of warfarin with mirtazapine. • Strong CYP3A inducers: Dosage increase may be needed for mirtazapine with concomitant use of strong CYP3A inducers. ( 2.5 , 7 ) • Strong CYP3A inhibitors: Dosage decrease may be needed when mirtazapine is coadministered with strong CYP3A inhibitors. ( 2.5 , 7 ) • Cimetidine: Dosage decrease may be needed when mirtazapine is coadministered with cimetidine. ( 2.5 , 7 ) • Warfarin: Monitor INR during concomitant use. ( 7 ) Intervention Avoid concomitant use of benzodiazepines and alcohol with mirtazapine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Examples diazepam, alprazolam, alcohol Drugs that Prolong QTc Interval Clinical Impact The concomitant use of other drugs which prolong the QTc interval with mirtazapine, increase the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias (e.g., Torsades de Pointes). Strong CYP3A inducers: Dosage increase may be needed for mirtazapine with concomitant use of strong CYP3A inducers. ( 2.5 , 7 ) Strong CYP3A inhibitors: Dosage decrease may be needed when mirtazapine is coadministered with strong CYP3A inhibitors. ( 2.5 , 7 ) Cimetidine: Dosage decrease may be needed when mirtazapine is coadministered with cimetidine. ( 2.5 , 7 ) Warfarin: Monitor INR during concomitant use. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 5 includes clinically important drug interactions with mirtazapine tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Table 5: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Mirtazapine Tablets Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact The concomitant use of serotonergic drugs, including mirtazapine tablets, and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Mirtazapine tablets are contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Examples selegiline, tranylcypromine, isocarboxazid, phenelzine, linezolid, methylene blue Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact The concomitant use of serotonergic drugs with mirtazapine tablets increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of mirtazapine tablets and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. John’s Wort, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone Strong CYP3A Inducers Clinical Impact The concomitant use of strong CYP3A inducers with mirtazapine tablets decreases the plasma concentration of mirtazapine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Intervention Increase the dose of mirtazapine tablets if needed with concomitant CYP3A inducer use. Conversely, a decrease in dosage of mirtazapine tablets may be needed if the CYP3A inducer is discontinued [see Dosage and Administration (2.5)]. Examples phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Clinical Impact The concomitant use of strong CYP3A inhibitors with mirtazapine tablets may increase the plasma concentration of mirtazapine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Intervention Decrease the dose of mirtazapine tablets if needed with concomitant strong CYP3A inhibitor use. Conversely, an increase in dosage of mirtazapine tablets may be needed if the CYP3A inhibitor is discontinued [see Dosage and Administration (2.5)]. Examples itraconazole, ritonavir, nefazodone Cimetidine Clinical Impact The concomitant use of cimetidine, a CYP1A2, CYP2D6, and CYP3A inhibitor, with mirtazapine tablets may increase the plasma concentration of mirtazapine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Intervention Decrease the dose of mirtazapine tablets if needed with concomitant cimetidine use. Conversely, an increase in dosage of mirtazapine tablets may be needed if cimetidine is discontinued [see Dosage and Administration (2.5)]. Benzodiazepines and Alcohol Clinical Impact The concomitant use of benzodiazepines or alcohol with mirtazapine tablets increases the impairment of cognitive and motor skills produced by mirtazapine tablets alone. Intervention Avoid concomitant use of benzodiazepines and alcohol with mirtazapine tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Examples diazepam, alprazolam, alcohol Drugs that Prolong QTc Interval Clinical Impact The concomitant use of other drugs which prolong the QTc interval with mirtazapine tablets, increase the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias (e.g., Torsades de Pointes). Intervention Use caution when using mirtazapine tablets concomitantly with drugs that prolong the QTc interval [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Warfarin Clinical Impact The concomitant use of warfarin with mirtazapine tablets may result in an increase in INR [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Intervention Monitor INR during concomitant use of warfarin with mirtazapine tablets. • Strong CYP3A inducers: Dosage increase may be needed for mirtazapine tablets with concomitant use of strong CYP3A inducers. ( 2.5 , 7) • Strong CYP3A inhibitors: Dosage decrease may be needed when mirtazapine tablets are coadministered with strong CYP3A inhibitors. (2.5 , 7) • Cimetidine: Dosage decrease may be needed when mirtazapine tablets are coadministered with cimetidine. ( 2.5 , 7) • Warfarin: Monitor INR during concomitant use. (7) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 5 includes clinically important drug interactions with mirtazapine tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention Mirtazapine tablets are contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of mirtazapine tablets and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. John's Wort, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone Strong CYP3A Inducers Clinical Impact The concomitant use of strong CYP3A inducers with mirtazapine tablets decreases the plasma concentration of mirtazapine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Conversely, a decrease in dosage of mirtazapine tablets may be needed if the CYP3A inducer is discontinued [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Examples phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Clinical Impact The concomitant use of strong CYP3A inhibitors with mirtazapine tablets may increase the plasma concentration of mirtazapine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Conversely, an increase in dosage of mirtazapine tablets may be needed if the CYP3A inhibitor is discontinued [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Examples itraconazole, ritonavir, nefazodone Cimetidine Clinical Impact The concomitant use of cimetidine, a CYP1A2, CYP2D6, and CYP3A inhibitor, with mirtazapine tablets may increase the plasma concentration of mirtazapine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Conversely, an increase in dosage of mirtazapine tablets may be needed if cimetidine is discontinued [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] . Intervention Avoid concomitant use of benzodiazepines and alcohol with mirtazapine tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention Use caution when using mirtazapine tablets concomitantly with drugs that prolong the QTc interval [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Warfarin Clinical Impact The concomitant use of warfarin with mirtazapine tablets may result in an increase in INR [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Strong CYP3A inducers : Dosage increase may be needed for mirtazapine tablets with concomitant use of strong CYP3A inducers. ( 2.5 , 7 ) Strong CYP3A inhibitors : Dosage decrease may be needed when mirtazapine tablets are coadministered with strong CYP3A inhibitors. ( 2.5 , 7 ) Cimetidine : Dosage decrease may be needed when mirtazapine tablets are coadministered with cimetidine. ( 2.5 , 7 ) Warfarin : Monitor INR during concomitant use. Drug Interactions As with other drugs, the potential for interaction by a variety of mechanisms (e.g., pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic inhibition or enhancement, etc.) is a possibility (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (See CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Serotonergic Drugs (See CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS .) Drugs Affecting Hepatic Metabolism The metabolism and pharmacokinetics of mirtazapine tablets may be affected by the induction or inhibition of drug-metabolizing enzymes. Drugs that are Metabolized by and/or Inhibit Cytochrome P450 Enzymes CYP Enzyme Inducers (these studies used both drugs at steady state) Phenytoin In healthy male patients (n=18), phenytoin (200 mg daily) increased mirtazapine (30 mg daily) clearance about 2-fold, resulting in a decrease in average plasma mirtazapine concentrations of 45%. Mirtazapine did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of phenytoin. Carbamazepine In healthy male patients (n=24), carbamazepine (400 mg b.i.d.) increased mirtazapine (15 mg b.i.d.) clearance about 2-fold, resulting in a decrease in average plasma mirtazapine concentrations of 60%. When phenytoin, carbamazepine, or another inducer of hepatic metabolism (such as rifampicin) is added to mirtazapine therapy, the mirtazapine dose may have to be increased. If treatment with such a medicinal product is discontinued, it may be necessary to reduce the mirtazapine dose. CYP Enzyme Inhibitors Cimetidine In healthy male patients (n=12), when cimetidine, a weak inhibitor of CYP1A2, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4, given at 800 mg b.i.d. at steady state was coadministered with mirtazapine (30 mg daily) at steady state, the Area Under the Curve (AUC) of mirtazapine increased more than 50%. Mirtazapine did not cause relevant changes in the pharmacokinetics of cimetidine. The mirtazapine dose may have to be decreased when concomitant treatment with cimetidine is started, or increased when cimetidine treatment is discontinued. Ketoconazole In healthy, male, Caucasian patients (n=24), coadministration of the potent CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole (200 mg b.i.d. for 6.5 days) increased the peak plasma levels and the AUC of a single 30 mg dose of mirtazapine by approximately 40% and 50%, respectively. Caution should be exercised when coadministering mirtazapine with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors, HIV protease inhibitors, azole antifungals, erythromycin, or nefazodone. Paroxetine In an in vivo interaction study in healthy, CYP2D6 extensive metabolizer patients (n=24), mirtazapine (30 mg/day), at steady state, did not cause relevant changes in the pharmacokinetics of steady state paroxetine (40 mg/day), a CYP2D6 inhibitor.

=== SODIUM BICARBONATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antacid Purposes Laxative Purpose Skin Protectant Skin Protectant
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sodium Bicarbonate Injection, USP is indicated in the treatment of metabolic acidosis which may occur in severe renal disease, uncontrolled diabetes, circulatory insufficiency due to shock or severe dehydration, extracorporeal circulation of blood, cardiac arrest and severe primary lactic acidosis. Sodium bicarbonate is further indicated in the treatment of certain drug intoxications, including barbiturates (where dissociation of the barbiturate-protein complex is desired), in poisoning by salicylates or methyl alcohol and in hemolytic reactions requiring alkalinization of the urine to diminish nephrotoxicity of hemoglobin and its breakdown products. Sodium bicarbonate also is indicated in severe diarrhea which is often accompanied by a significant loss of bicarbonate. Treatment of metabolic acidosis should, if possible, be superimposed on measures designed to control the basic cause of the acidosis - e.g., insulin in uncomplicated diabetes, blood volume restoration in shock. But since an appreciable time interval may elapse before all of the ancillary effects are brought about, bicarbonate therapy is indicated to minimize risks inherent to the acidosis itself. Vigorous bicarbonate therapy is required in any form of metabolic acidosis where a rapid increase in plasma total CO 2 content is crucial - e.g., cardiac arrest, circulatory insufficiency due to shock or severe dehydration, and in severe primary lactic acidosis or severe diabetic acidosis. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Elliotts B Solution is indicated as a diluent for the intrathecal administration of methotrexate sodium and cytarabine for the prevention or treatment of meningeal leukemia or lymphocytic lymphoma. Uses for the relief of ● heartburn ● acid indigestion ● sour stomach INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sodium Bicarbonate Injection is indicated in the treatment of metabolic acidosis which may occur in severe renal disease, uncontrolled diabetes, circulatory insufficiency due to shock or severe dehydration, extracorporeal circulation of blood, cardiac arrest and severe primary lactic acidosis. Treatment of metabolic acidosis should, if possible, be superimposed on measures designed to control the basic cause of the acidosis – e.g., insulin in uncomplicated diabetes, blood volume restoration in shock. Vigorous bicarbonate therapy is required in any form of metabolic acidosis where a rapid increase in plasma total CO 2 content is crucial – e.g., cardiac arrest, circulatory insufficiency due to shock or severe dehydration, and in severe primary lactic acidosis or severe diabetic acidosis. Uses for relief of occasional constipation this product generally produces a bowel movement in 5 to 30 minutes uses Temporarily protects minor cuts, burns, scrapes, chafed, chapped, or cracked skin. INDICATIONS AND USAGE: Sodium Bicarbonate Injection, USP is indicated in the treatment of metabolic acidosis which may occur in severe renal disease, uncontrolled diabetes, circulatory insufficiency due to shock or severe dehydration, extracorporeal circulation of blood, cardiac arrest and severe primary lactic acidosis. Treatment of metabolic acidosis should, if possible, be superimposed on measures designed to control the basic cause of the acidosis — e.g., insulin in uncomplicated diabetes, blood volume restoration in shock. Vigorous bicarbonate therapy is required in any form of metabolic acidosis where a rapid increase in plasma total CO 2 content is crucial — e.g., cardiac arrest, circulatory insufficiency due to shock or severe dehydration, and in severe primary lactic acidosis or severe diabetic acidosis. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate for oral suspension and Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate capsules are indicated in adults for the : short-term treatment of active duodenal ulcer. Most patients heal within four weeks. Some patients may require an additional four weeks of therapy. short-term treatment (4 to 8 weeks) of active benign gastric ulcer. treatment of heartburn and other symptoms associated with GERD for up to 4 weeks. short-term treatment (4 to 8 weeks) of EE due to acid-mediated GERD which has been diagnosed by endoscopy in adults. The efficacy of Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate used for longer than 8 weeks in patients with EE has not been established. If a patient does not respond to 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 4 weeks of treatment may be given. If there is recurrence of EE or GERD symptoms (e.g., heartburn), additional 4 to 8-week courses of Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate may be considered. maintenance of healing of EE due to acid-mediated GERD. Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months. Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate for oral suspension is indicated in adults for the : reduction of risk of upper GI bleeding in critically ill adult patients. Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate for oral suspension and Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate capsules are indicated in adults for: Treatment of active duodenal ulcer ( 1 ) Treatment of active benign gastric ulcer ( 1 ) Treatment of erosive esophagitis (EE) due to acid-mediated gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) ( 1 ) Maintenance of healing of EE ( 1 ) Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate for oral suspension is indicated in adults for: Reduction of risk of upper gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding in critically ill patients ( 1 )
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Sodium Bicarbonate Injection, USP is administered by the intravenous route. In cardiac arrest , a rapid intravenous dose of one to two 50 mL vials (44.6 to 100 mEq) may be given initially and continued at a rate of 50 mL (44.6 to 50 mEq) every 5 to 10 minutes if necessary (as indicated by arterial pH and blood gas monitoring) to reverse the acidosis. Caution should be observed in emergencies where very rapid infusion of large quantities of bicarbonate is indicated. Bicarbonate solutions are hypertonic and may produce an undesirable rise in plasma sodium concentration in the process of correcting the metabolic acidosis. In cardiac arrest, however, the risks from acidosis exceed those of hypernatremia. In less urgent forms of metabolic acidosis , Sodium Bicarbonate Injection, USP may be added to other intravenous fluids. The amount of bicarbonate to be given to older children and adults over a four-to-eight-hour period is approximately 2 to 5 mEq/kg of body weight - depending upon the severity of the acidosis as judged by the lowering of total CO 2 content, blood pH and clinical condition of the patient. In metabolic acidosis associated with shock, therapy should be monitored by measuring blood gases, plasma osmolarity, arterial blood lactate, hemodynamics and cardiac rhythm. Bicarbonate therapy should always be planned in a stepwise fashion since the degree of response from a given dose is not precisely predictable. Initially an infusion of 2 to 5 mEq/kg body weight over a period of 4 to 8 hours will produce a measurable improvement in the abnormal acid-base status of the blood. The next step of therapy is dependent upon the clinical response of the patient. If severe symptoms have abated, then the frequency of administration and the size of the dose may be reduced. In general, it is unwise to attempt full correction of a low total CO 2 content during the first 24 hours of therapy, since this may be accompanied by an unrecognized alkalosis because of a delay in the readjustment of ventilation to normal. Owing to this lag, the achievement of total CO 2 content of about 20 mEq/liter at the end of the first day of therapy will usually be associated with a normal blood pH. Further modification of the acidosis to completely normal values usually occurs in the presence of normal kidney function when and if the cause of the acidosis can be controlled. Values for total CO 2 which are brought to normal or above normal within the first day of therapy are very likely to be associated with grossly alkaline values for blood pH, with ensuing undesired side effects. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. See PRECAUTIONS . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION See product labeling for methotrexate sodium and cytarabine. Elliotts B Solution is intended for intrathecal administration only. Elliotts B Solution does not contain antibacterial preservatives and introduction of contaminated solutions into the cerebrospinal fluid may have extremely serious consequences. Therefore, administration of intrathecal solutions should be accomplished as soon as possible after preparation. A sterile filter-needle should be used to withdraw the contents of the ampule. Intrathecal drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Preparation and Administration Precautions Elliotts B Solution is a diluent for the cytotoxic anticancer agents, methotrexate sodium and cytarabine. Care should be exercised in the handling and preparation of infusion solutions with these products. (See product labeling for methotrexate sodium and cytarabine.) Directions ● fully dissolve tablets in 4 ounces of water before taking adults and children 12 years and over 2 tablets every 4 hours as needed, or asdirected by a doctor do not exceed8 tablets in 24 hours adults 60 years and over 2 tablets every 4 hours as needed, or as directed by a doctor do not exceed 6 tablets in 24 hours children under 12 years 1 tablet every 4 hours as needed, or as directed by a doctor do not exceed 4 tablets in 24 hours DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Sodium Bicarbonate Injection is administered by the intravenous route. In less urgent forms of metabolic acidosis , Sodium Bicarbonate Injection may be added to other intravenous fluids. The amount of bicarbonate to be given to older children and adults over a four-to-eight-hour period is approximately 2 to 5 mEq/kg of body weight – depending upon the severity of the acidosis as judged by the lowering of total CO 2 content, blood pH and clinical condition of the patient. Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and over: rectal dosage is one suppository containing 0.6 gram of sodium bicarbonate and 0.9 gram of potassium bitartrate in a single daily dose Children under 12 years of age: consult a doctor Detach one suppository from the strip; remove plastic wrapper. Moisten suppository by placing it under a water tap for 30 seconds, or in a cup of water for at least 10 seconds, before insertion. Insert rectally, bulb shape first, past largest diameter of suppository. Retain suppository as long as possible (usually 10 to 30 minutes) before defecating. Directions Adults and children 2 years and over. For use as soak in bath, dissolve 1 bath bomb in warm tub of water, Soak for 10 to 30 minutes as needed, or as directed by doctor. Pat dry (do not rub) to leave a thin layer on the skin In cardiac arrest, a rapid intravenous dose of one to two 50 mL vials (44.6 to 100 mEq) may be given initially and continued at a rate of 50 mL (44.6 to 50 mEq) every 5 to 10 minutes if necessary (as indicated by arterial pH and blood gas monitoring) to reverse the acidosis. In less urgent forms of metabolic acidosis, Sodium Bicarbonate Injection, USP may be added to other intravenous fluids. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Sodium Bicarbonate Injection, USP is administered by the intravenous route. In cardiac arrest, a rapid intravenous dose of 44.6 to 100 mEq may be given initially and continued at a rate of 44.6 to 50 mEq every 5 to 10 minutes if necessary (as indicated by arterial pH and blood gas monitoring) to reverse the acidosis. The amount of bicarbonate to be given to older children and adults over a four- to eight- hour period is approximately 2 to 5 mEq/kg of body weight — depending upon the severity of the acidosis as judged by the lowering of total CO 2 content, blood pH and clinical condition of the patient. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication ( 2 ) Recommended Adult Dosage ( 2 ) Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate for oral suspension or Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate capsules ( 2 ) Active Duodenal Ulcer ( 2 ) 20 mg once daily for 4 weeks; some patients may require an additional 4 weeks ( 2 ) Active Benign Gastric Ulcer ( 2 ) 40 mg once daily for 4 to 8 weeks ( 2 ) Treatment of Symptomatic GERD ( 2 ) 20 mg once daily for up to 4 weeks ( 2 ) Treatment of EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD 20 mg once daily for 4 to 8 weeks* ( 2 ) Maintenance of Healing of EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD ( 2 ) 20 mg once daily** ( 2 ) 40 mg Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate for oral suspension ( 2 ) Reduction of Risk of Upper GI Bleeding in Critically Ill Patients ( 2 ) 40 mg initially followed by 40 mg 6 to 8 hours later and 40 mg once daily thereafter for 14 days ( 2 ) *an additional 4 weeks of treatment may be given if no response; if recurrence, additional 4 to 8-week courses may be considered. ( 2 ) **studied for 12 months. ( 2 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate is available as a capsule and as a powder for oral suspension in 20 mg and 40 mg strengths of omeprazole for adult use. All recommended doses throughout the labeling are based upon omeprazole. The sodium content of Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate capsules and Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate for oral suspension should be taken into consideration when prescribing this product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] : Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate capsule: each 20 mg and 40 mg capsule contains 1,100 mg (13 mEq) of sodium bicarbonate. The total content of sodium in each capsule is 304 mg. Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate for oral suspension: each 20 mg and 40 mg packet of contains 1,680 mg (20 mEq) of sodium bicarbonate. The total content of sodium in each packet is 460 mg. Due to the sodium bicarbonate content of Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate: Do not substitute two packets of 20 mg Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate for oral suspension with one packet of 40 mg Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate for oral suspension. Do not substitute two 20 mg Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate capsules with one 40 mg Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate capsule. 2.2 Dosage Regimen The recommended dosage regimen by indication in adults of Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate for oral suspension and Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate capsules is summarized in Table 1 . Only 40 mg Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate for oral suspension is indicated for the reduction of risk of upper GI bleeding in critically ill adult patients and the dosage regimen is summarized in Table 2 . All recommended dosages are based upon omeprazole content. Table 1: Recommended Dosage Regimen of Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate for Oral Suspension and Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate Capsules in Adults by Indication Indication Dosage of Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate for oral suspension or Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate capsules Treatment Duration Treatment of Active Duodenal Ulcer 20 mg once daily 4 weeks *† Treatment of Active Benign Gastric Ulcer 40 mg once daily 4 to 8 weeks Treatment of Symptomatic GERD 20 mg once daily Up to 4 weeks Treatment of EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD 20 mg once daily 4 to 8 weeks † Maintenance of Healing of EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD 20 mg once daily Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months. Table 2: Recommended Dosage Regimen of 40 mg Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate for Oral Suspension in Adults by Indication Indication Dosage of 40 mg Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate for oral suspension Treatment Duration Reduction of Risk of Upper GI Bleeding in Critically Ill Patients 40 mg initially; followed by 40 mg 6 to 8 hours later; and 40 mg once daily thereafter 14 days 2.3 Preparation and Administration Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate Capsules Swallow capsules intact with water. Do not open the capsule and do not administer with liquids other than water. Take on an empty stomach at least one hour before a meal [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate for Oral Suspension Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate for oral suspension is intended to be mixed with water and administered orally or via a nasogastric (NG) or orogastric (OG) tube. If administered orally, take on an empty stomach at least one hour before a meal. If administered via NG or OG tube, suspend enteral feeding approximately 3 hours before and 1 hour after administration of Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate for oral suspension. Oral Administration Empty the contents of a packet into a small cup containing 5 to 10 mL of water. Do not mix with liquids or foods other than water. Stir well and drink immediately. Refill cup with water and drink immediately. Nasogastric (NG) or Orogastric (OG) Tube Administration In cardiac arrest , a rapid intravenous dose of 44.6 to 100 mEq may be given initially and continued at a rate of 44.6 to 50 mEq every 5 to 10 minutes if necessary (as indicated by arterial pH and blood gas monitoring) to reverse the acidosis. Initially an infusion of 2–5 mEq/kg body weight over a period of 4 to 8 hours will produce a measurable improvement in the abnormal acid-base status of the blood. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit (See PRECAUTIONS ).
Warnings: WARNINGS Solutions containing sodium ions should be used with great care, if at all, in patients with congestive heart failure, severe renal insufficiency and in clinical states in which there exists edema with sodium retention. In patients with diminished renal function, administration of solutions containing sodium ions may result in sodium retention. The intravenous administration of these solutions can cause fluid and/or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations, overhydration, congested states or pulmonary edema. Extravascular infiltration should be avoided, see ADVERSE REACTIONS . WARNINGS Intrathecal administration of drugs such as methotrexate sodium and cytarabine should be performed by personnel skilled in the technique of lumbar puncture under the supervision of a physician who is experienced in the use of cancer chemotherapeutic agents. The labeling for methotrexate sodium and cytarabine should be consulted. Reye’s syndrome: Children and teenagers who have or are recovering from chicken pox or flu-like symptoms should not use this product. When using this product, if changes in behavior with nausea and vomiting occur, consult a doctor because these symptoms could be an early sign of Reye’s syndrome, a rare but serious illness. Allergy alert: Aspirin may cause a severe allergic reaction which may include: · hives · facial swelling · asthma (wheezing) · shock Stomach bleeding warning: This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you ● are age 60 or older ● have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems ● take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug ● take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) ● have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product ● take more or for a longer time than directed Warnings For rectal use only Warnings For external use only. Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children WARNINGS: Solutions containing sodium ions should be used with great care, if at all, in patients with congestive heart failure, severe renal insufficiency and in clinical states in which there exists edema with sodium retention. Extravascular infiltration should be avoided, see ADVERSE REACTIONS.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Sodium Bicarbonate Injection, USP is contraindicated in patients who are losing chloride by vomiting or from continuous gastrointestinal suction, and in patients receiving diuretics known to produce a hypochloremic alkalosis. CONTRAINDICATIONS None known. CONTRAINDICATIONS Sodium Bicarbonate Injection is contraindicated in patients who are losing chloride by vomiting or from continuous gastrointestinal suction, and in patients receiving diuretics known to produce a hypochloremic alkalosis. CONTRAINDICATIONS: Sodium Bicarbonate Injection, USP is contraindicated in patients who are losing chloride by vomiting or from continuous gastrointestinal suction, and in patients receiving diuretics known to produce a hypochloremic alkalosis. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to substituted benzimidazoles or to any component of the formulation. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. Adverse Reactions (6.2)] . Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine containing products [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Known hypersensitivity to any components of the formulation ( 4 ) Patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products ( 4 , 7 )
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible; norepinephrine and dobutamine are incompatible with sodium bicarbonate solution. The addition of sodium bicarbonate to parenteral solutions containing calcium should be avoided, except where compatibility has been previously established. Precipitation or haze may result from sodium bicarbonate-calcium admixtures. NOTE : Do not use the injection if it contains precipitate. Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. NOTE: Do not use the injection if it contains precipitate. When introducing additives, consult with pharmacist, if available. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Tables 6 and 7 include drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with omeprazole and instructions for preventing or managing them. Consult the labeling of concomitantly used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with PPIs. Table 6: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Co-Administered with Omeprazole and Interaction with Diagnostics Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact: The effect of PPIs on antiretroviral drugs is variable. The clinical importance and the mechanisms behind these interactions are not always known. Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine, atazanavir and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with omeprazole may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with omeprazole may increase toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . There are other antiretroviral drugs which do not result in clinically relevant interactions with omeprazole. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ]. Atazanavir: Avoid concomitant use with Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate. See prescribing information for atazanavir for dosing information. Nelfinavir: Avoid concomitant use with Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate. See prescribing information for nelfinavir. Saquinavir: See the prescribing information for saquinavir for monitoring of potential saquinavir-related toxicities. Other antiretrovirals: See prescribing information for specific antiretroviral drugs. Warfarin Clinical Impact: Increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving PPIs, including omeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Intervention: Monitor INR and prothrombin time and adjust the dose of warfarin, if needed, to maintain target INR range. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of omeprazole with methotrexate (primarily at high dose) may elevate and prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ]. Intervention: A temporary withdrawal of Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate may be considered in some patients receiving high-dose methotrexate. CYP2C19 Substrates (e.g., clopidogrel, citalopram, cilostazol, phenytoin, diazepam) Clopidogrel Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of omeprazole 80 mg results in reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in platelet inhibition [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. There are no adequate combination studies of a lower dose of omeprazole or a higher dose of clopidogrel in comparison with the approved dose of clopidogrel . Intervention: Avoid concomitant use with Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate. Consider use of alternative anti-platelet therapy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Citalopram Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of citalopram leading to an increased risk of QT prolongation [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention: Limit the dose of citalopram to a maximum of 20 mg per day. See prescribing information for citalopram. Cilostazol Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of one of the active metabolites of cilostazol (3,4-dihydro-cilostazol) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily. See prescribing information for cilostazol. Phenytoin Clinical Impact: Potential for increased exposure of phenytoin. Intervention: Monitor phenytoin serum concentrations. Dose adjustment may be needed to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations. See prescribing information for phenytoin. Diazepam Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of diazepam [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention: Monitor patients for increased sedation and reduce the dose of diazepam as needed. Digoxin Clinical Impact: Potential for increased exposure of digoxin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Monitor digoxin concentrations. See digoxin prescribing information. Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption (e.g., iron salts, erlotinib, dasatinib, nilotinib, mycophenolate mofetil, ketoconazole/itraconazole) Clinical Impact: Omeprazole can reduce the absorption of other drugs due to its effect on reducing intragastric acidity. Intervention: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Co-administration of omeprazole in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH. The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate and MMF. Use Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . See the prescribing information for other drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption. Tacrolimus Clinical Impact: Potential for increased exposure of tacrolimus, especially in transplant patients who are intermediate or poor metabolizers of CYP2C19 . Intervention: Monitor tacrolimus whole blood concentrations. See prescribing information for tacrolimus. Interactions with Investigations of Neuroendocrine Tumors Clinical Impact: Serum chromogranin A (CgA) levels increase secondary to PPI-induced decreases in gastric acidity. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12 ) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Intervention: Temporarily stop PRILOSEC treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. If serial tests are performed (e.g., for monitoring), the same commercial laboratory should be used for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary. Interaction with Secretin Stimulation Test Clinical Impact: Hyper-response in gastrin secretion in response to secretin stimulation test, falsely suggesting gastrinoma. Intervention: Temporarily stop Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate treatment at least 14 days before assessing to allow gastrin levels to return to baseline [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact: There have been reports of false positive urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving PPIs. Intervention: An alternative confirmatory method should be considered to verify positive results. Other Clinical Impact: There have been clinical reports of interactions with other drugs metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system (e.g., cyclosporine, disulfiram). Intervention: Monitor patients to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of these other drugs when taken concomitantly with Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate. Table 7: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Omeprazole When Co-Administered with Other Drugs CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: Decreased exposure of omeprazole when used concomitantly with strong inducers [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: St. John’s wort, rifampin: Avoid concomitant use with Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ]. Ritonavir-containing products: See prescribing information for specific drugs. CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of omeprazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Voriconazole : Dosage adjustment of Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate is not required. See full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions. ( 7 ) Precipitation or haze may result from sodium bicarbonate/calcium admixtures.

=== ALPRAZOLAM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Alprazolam tablets are indicated for the: acute treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults. treatment of panic disorder (PD), with or without agoraphobia in adults. Alprazolam is a benzodiazepine indicated for the: Acute treatment of generalized anxiety disorder in adults. ( 1 ) Treatment of panic disorder with or without agoraphobia in adults. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Alprazolam extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of panic disorder with or without agoraphobia, in adults. Alprazolam extended-release tablets are a benzodiazepine indicated for the treatment of panic disorder with or without agoraphobia, in adults. Alprazolam tablets are a benzodiazepine indicated for the: Acute treatment of generalized anxiety disorder in adults. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Anxiety Disorders Alprazolam Tablets are indicated for the management of anxiety disorder (a condition corresponding most closely to the APA Diagnostic and Statistical Manual [DSM-III-R] diagnosis of generalized anxiety disorder) or the short-term relief of symptoms of anxiety. Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic. Generalized anxiety disorder is characterized by unrealistic or excessive anxiety and worry (apprehensive expectation) about two or more life circumstances, for a period of 6 months or longer, during which the person has been bothered more days than not by these concerns. At least 6 of the following 18 symptoms are often present in these patients: Motor Tension (trembling, twitching, or feeling shaky; muscle tension, aches, or soreness; restlessness; easy fatigability); Autonomic Hyperactivity (shortness of breath or smothering sensations; palpitations or accelerated heart rate; sweating, or cold clammy hands; dry mouth; dizziness or light-headedness; nausea, diarrhea, or other abdominal distress; flushes or chills; frequent urination; trouble swallowing or 'lump in throat'); Vigilance and Scanning (feeling keyed up or on edge; exaggerated startle response; difficulty concentrating or 'mind going blank' because of anxiety; trouble falling or staying asleep; irritability). These symptoms must not be secondary to another psychiatric disorder or caused by some organic factor. Anxiety associated with depression is responsive to alprazolam. Panic Disorder Alprazolam is also indicated for the treatment of panic disorder, with or without agoraphobia. Studies supporting this claim were conducted in patients whose diagnoses corresponded closely to the DSM-III-R/IV criteria for panic disorder (see CLINICAL STUDIES ). Panic disorder (DSM-IV) is characterized by recurrent unexpected panic attacks, i.e., a discrete period of intense fear or discomfort in which four (or more) of the following symptoms develop abruptly and reach a peak within 10 minutes: (1) palpitations, pounding heart, or accelerated heart rate; (2) sweating; (3) trembling or shaking; (4) sensations of shortness of breath or smothering; (5) feeling of choking; (6) chest pain or discomfort; (7) nausea or abdominal distress; (8) feeling dizzy, unsteady, lightheaded, or faint; (9) derealization (feelings of unreality) or depersonalization (being detached from oneself); (10) fear of losing control; (11) fear of dying; (12) paresthesias (numbness or tingling sensations); (13) chills or hot flushes. Demonstrations of the effectiveness of Alprazolam by systematic clinical study are limited to 4 months duration for anxiety disorder and 4 to 10 weeks duration for panic disorder; however, patients with panic disorder have been treated on an open basis for up to 8 months without apparent loss of benefit. The physician should periodically reassess the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Alprazolam XR is indicated for the treatment of panic disorder with or without agoraphobia, in adults. Alprazolam XR is a benzodiazepine indicated for the treatment of panic disorder with or without agoraphobia, in adults. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Alprazolam is indicated for the: • acute treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults. • treatment of panic disorder (PD), with or without agoraphobia in adults. Alprazolam is a benzodiazepine indicated for the: • Acute treatment of generalized anxiety disorder in adults. ( 1 ) • Treatment of panic disorder with or without agoraphobia in adults.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Generalized Anxiety Disorder : ( 2.1 ) Recommended starting oral dosage is 0.25 mg to 0.5 mg three times daily. Dosage may be increased, at intervals of every 3 to 4 days, to a maximum recommended daily dose of 4 mg, given in divided doses. Use the lowest possible effective dose and frequently assess the need for continued treatment. Panic Disorder : Recommended starting oral dosage is 0.5 mg three times daily. The dosage may be increased at intervals of every 3 to 4 days in increments of no more than 1 mg per day. ( 2.2 ) When tapering, decrease dosage by no more than 0.5 mg every 3 days. Some patients may require an even slower dosage reduction. ( 2.3 , 5.2 ) See the Full Prescribing Information for the recommended dosage in geriatric patients, patients with hepatic impairment, and with use with ritonavir. ( 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6 ) 2.1 Dosage in Generalized Anxiety Disorder The recommended starting oral dosage of alprazolam tablets for the acute treatment of patients with GAD is 0.25 mg to 0.5 mg administered three times daily. Depending upon the response, the dosage may be adjusted at intervals of every 3 to 4 days. The maximum recommended dosage is 4 mg daily (in divided doses). Use the lowest possible effective dose and frequently assess the need for continued treatment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 2.2 Dosage in Panic Disorder The recommended starting oral dosage of alprazolam tablets for the treatment of PD is 0.5 mg three times daily. Depending on the response, the dosage may be increased at intervals of every 3 to 4 days in increments of no more than 1 mg per day. Controlled trials of alprazolam tablets in the treatment of panic disorder included dosages in the range of 1 mg to 10 mg daily. The mean dosage was approximately 5 mg to 6 mg daily. Occasional patients required as much as 10 mg per day. For patients receiving doses greater than 4 mg per day, periodic reassessment and consideration of dosage reduction is advised. In a controlled postmarketing dose-response study, patients treated with doses of alprazolam tablets greater than 4 mg per day for 3 months were able to taper to 50% of their total maintenance dose without apparent loss of clinical benefit. The necessary duration of treatment for PD in patients responding to alprazolam tablets are unknown. After a period of extended freedom from panic attacks, a carefully supervised tapered discontinuation may be attempted, but there is evidence that this may often be difficult to accomplish without recurrence of symptoms and/or the manifestation of withdrawal phenomena [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. 2.3 Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Alprazolam Tablets To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue alprazolam tablets or reduce the dosage. If a patient develops withdrawal reactions, consider pausing the taper or increasing the dosage to the previous tapered dosage level. Subsequently decrease the dosage more slowly [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3) ]. Reduced the dosage by no more than 0.5 mg every 3 days. Some patients may benefit from an even more gradual discontinuation. Some patients may prove resistant to all discontinuation regimens. In a controlled postmarketing discontinuation study of panic disorder patients which compared the recommended taper schedule with a slower taper schedule, no difference was observed between the groups in the proportion of patients who tapered to zero dose; however, the slower schedule was associated with a reduction in symptoms associated with a withdrawal syndrome. 2.4 Dosage Recommendations in Geriatric Patients In geriatric patients, the recommended starting oral dosage of alprazolam tablets is 0.25 mg, given 2 or 3 times daily. This may be gradually increased if needed and tolerated. Geriatric patients may be especially sensitive to the effects of benzodiazepines. If adverse reactions occur at the recommended starting dosage, the dosage may be reduced [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.5 Dosage Recommendations in Patients with Hepatic Impairment In patients with hepatic impairment, the recommended starting oral dosage of alprazolam tablets is 0.25 mg, given 2 or 3 times daily. If adverse reactions occur at the recommended starting dose, the dosage may be reduced [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.6 Dosage Modifications for Drug Interactions Alprazolam tablets should be reduced to half of the recommended dosage when a patient is started on ritonavir and alprazolam tablets together, or when ritonavir administered to a patient treated with alprazolam tablets. Increase the alprazolam tablets dosage to the target dose after 10 to 14 days of dosing ritonavir and alprazolam tablets together. It is not necessary to reduce alprazolam tablets dose in patients who have been taking ritonavir for more than 10 to 14 days. Alprazolam tablets are contraindicated with concomitant use of all strong CYP3A inhibitors, except ritonavir [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended starting oral dosage is 0.5 mg to 1 mg once daily (preferably in the morning). Depending on the response, the dose may be increased at intervals of 3 to 4 days in increments of no more than 1 mg daily. ( 2.1 ) Recommended total daily dosage is 3 mg to 6 mg daily. ( 2.1 ) Swallow tablets whole; do not divide, crush, or chew. ( 2.1 ) When tapering, decrease dosage by no more than 0.5 mg every 3 days. ( 2.2 , 5.2 ) See the Full Prescribing Information for the recommended dosage in geriatric patients, patients with hepatic impairment, and with use with ritonavir. ( 2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage Administer alprazolam extended-release tablets orally once daily, preferably in the morning. Swallow tablets whole; do not divide, crush, or chew. The recommended starting oral dosage for alprazolam extended-release tablets are 0.5 mg to 1 mg once daily. Depending on the response, the dosage may be adjusted at intervals of every 3 to 4 days in increments of no more than 1 mg daily. The recommended dosage range is 3 mg to 6 mg once daily. Controlled trials of alprazolam extended-release tablets for the treatment of panic disorder included dosages in the range of 1 mg to 10 mg per day. Most patients showed a response in the dosage range of 3 mg to 6 mg per day. The longer-term efficacy of alprazolam extended-release tablets has not been systematically evaluated. If alprazolam extended-release tablets are used for periods longer than 8 weeks, the healthcare provider should periodically reassess the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. After a period of extended freedom from panic attacks, a carefully supervised tapered discontinuation may be attempted, but there is evidence that this may often be difficult to accomplish without recurrence of symptoms and/or the manifestation of withdrawal phenomena [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 2.2 Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Alprazolam Extended-Release Tablets To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue alprazolam extended-release tablets or reduce the dosage. Reduce the dosage by no more than 0.5 mg every three days. 2.3 Dosage Recommendations in Geriatric Patients In geriatric patients, the recommended starting dosage of alprazolam extended-release tablets is 0.5 mg once daily. Geriatric patients may be sensitive to the effects of benzodiazepines [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.4 Dosage Recommendations in Patients with Hepatic Impairment In patients with hepatic impairment, the recommended starting dosage of alprazolam extended-release tablets is 0.5 mg once daily. This may be gradually increased if needed and tolerated [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.5 Dosage Modifications for Drug Interactions Alprazolam extended-release tablets should be reduced to half of the recommended dosage when a patient is started on ritonavir and alprazolam extended-release tablets together, or when ritonavir is added to a patient treated with alprazolam extended-release tablets. Increase alprazolam extended-release tablets dosage to the target dose after 10 to 14 days of dosing ritonavir and alprazolam extended-release tablets together. It is not necessary to reduce alprazolam extended-release tablets dosage in patients who have been taking ritonavir for more than 10 to 14 days. Alprazolam extended-release tablets are contraindicated with concomitant use of all strong CYP3A inhibitors, except ritonavir [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 2.6 Switching Patients from Alprazolam Tablets to Alprazolam Extended-Release Tablets Patients who are currently being treated with divided doses of alprazolam may be switched to alprazolam extended-release tablets at the same total daily dose taken once daily. If the clinical response after switching is inadequate, titrate the dosage as outlined above. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Generalized Anxiety Disorder: ( 2.1 ) Recommended starting oral dosage is 0.25 mg to 0.5 mg three times daily. Panic Disorder: Recommended starting oral dosage is 0.5 mg three times daily. ( 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6 ) 2.1 Dosage in Generalized Anxiety Disorder The recommended starting oral dosage of alprazolam for the acute treatment of patients with GAD is 0.25 mg to 0.5 mg administered three times daily. Use the lowest possible effective dose and frequently assess the need for continued treatment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . 2.2 Dosage in Panic Disorder The recommended starting oral dosage of alprazolam for the treatment of PD is 0.5 mg three times daily. Controlled trials of alprazolam in the treatment of panic disorder included dosages in the range of 1 mg to 10 mg daily. In a controlled postmarketing dose-response study, patients treated with doses of alprazolam greater than 4 mg per day for 3 months were able to taper to 50% of their total maintenance dose without apparent loss of clinical benefit. The necessary duration of treatment for PD in patients responding to alprazolam is unknown. After a period of extended freedom from panic attacks, a carefully supervised tapered discontinuation may be attempted, but there is evidence that this may often be difficult to accomplish without recurrence of symptoms and/or the manifestation of withdrawal phenomena [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )]. 2.3 Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Alprazolam To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue alprazolam or reduce the dosage. Subsequently decrease the dosage more slowly [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )] . 2.4 Dosage Recommendations in Geriatric Patients In geriatric patients, the recommended starting oral dosage of alprazolam is 0.25 mg, given 2 or 3 times daily. If adverse reactions occur at the recommended starting dosage, the dosage may be reduced [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.5 Dosage Recommendations in Patients with Hepatic Impairment In patients with hepatic impairment, the recommended starting oral dosage of alprazolam is 0.25 mg, given 2 or 3 times daily. If adverse reactions occur at the recommended starting dose, the dosage may be reduced [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.6 Dosage Modifications for Drug Interactions Alprazolam should be reduced to half of the recommended dosage when a patient is started on ritonavir and alprazolam together, or when ritonavir administered to a patient treated with alprazolam. Increase the alprazolam dosage to the target dose after 10 to 14 days of dosing ritonavir and alprazolam together. It is not necessary to reduce alprazolam dose in patients who have been taking ritonavir for more than 10 to 14 days. Alprazolam is contraindicated with concomitant use of all strong CYP3A inhibitors, except ritonavir [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be individualized for maximum beneficial effect. While the usual daily dosages given below will meet the needs of most patients, there will be some who require doses greater than 4 mg/day. In such cases, dosage should be increased cautiously to avoid adverse effects. Anxiety Disorders and Transient Symptoms of Anxiety Treatment for patients with anxiety should be initiated with a dose of 0.25 to 0.5 mg given three times daily. The dose may be increased to achieve a maximum therapeutic effect, at intervals of 3 to 4 days, to a maximum daily dose of 4 mg, given in divided doses. The lowest possible effective dose should be employed and the need for continued treatment reassessed frequently. The risk of dependence may increase with dose and duration of treatment. In all patients, dosage should be reduced gradually when discontinuing therapy or when decreasing the daily dosage. Although there are no systematically collected data to support a specific discontinuation schedule, it is suggested that the daily dosage be decreased by no more than 0.5 mg every 3 days. Panic Disorder The successful treatment of many panic disorder patients has required the use of alprazolam at doses greater than 4 mg daily. In controlled trials conducted to establish the efficacy of alprazolam in panic disorder, doses in the range of 1 to 10 mg daily were used. The mean dosage employed was approximately 5 to 6 mg daily. Among the approximately 1700 patients participating in the panic disorder development program, about 300 received alprazolam in dosages of greater than 7 mg/day, including approximately 100 patients who received maximum dosages of greater than 9 mg/day. Occasional patients required as much as 10 mg a day to achieve a successful response. Dose Titration Treatment may be initiated with a dose of 0.5 mg three times daily. Depending on the response, the dose may be increased at intervals of 3 to 4 days in increments of no more than 1 mg per day. Slower titration to the dose levels greater than 4 mg/day may be advisable to allow full expression of the pharmacodynamic effect of alprazolam. To lessen the possibility of interdose symptoms, the times of administration should be distributed as evenly as possible throughout the waking hours, that is, on a three or four times per day schedule. Generally, therapy should be initiated at a low dose to minimize the risk of adverse responses in patients especially sensitive to the drug. Dose should be advanced until an acceptable therapeutic response (i.e., a substantial reduction in or total elimination of panic attacks) is achieved, intolerance occurs, or the maximum recommended dose is attained. Dose Maintenance For patients receiving doses greater than 4 mg/day, periodic reassessment and consideration of dosage reduction is advised. In a controlled postmarketing dose-response study, patients treated with doses of alprazolam greater than 4 mg/day for 3 months were able to taper to 50% of their total maintenance dose without apparent loss of clinical benefit. Because of the danger of withdrawal, abrupt discontinuation of treatment should be avoided. (See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE .) The necessary duration of treatment for panic disorder patients responding to alprazolam is unknown. After a period of extended freedom from attacks, a carefully supervised tapered discontinuation may be attempted, but there is evidence that this may often be difficult to accomplish without recurrence of symptoms and/or the manifestation of withdrawal phenomena. Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Alprazolam To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue Alprazolam or reduce the dosage. Subsequently decrease the dosage more slowly (see WARNINGS - Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE - Dependence ). In a controlled postmarketing discontinuation study of panic disorder patients which compared this recommended taper schedule with a slower taper schedule, no difference was observed between the groups in the proportion of patients who tapered to zero dose; however, the slower schedule was associated with a reduction in symptoms associated with a withdrawal syndrome. Dosing in Special Populations In elderly patients, in patients with advanced liver disease or in patients with debilitating disease, the usual starting dose is 0.25 mg, given two or three times daily. The elderly may be especially sensitive to the effects of benzodiazepines. If side effects occur at the recommended starting dose, the dose may be lowered. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended starting oral dosage is 0.5 mg to 1 mg once daily (preferably in the morning). ( 2.1 ) • Recommended total daily dosage is 3 mg to 6 mg daily. ( 2.1 ) • Swallow tablets whole; do not divide, crush, or chew. ( 2.1 ) • When tapering, decrease dosage by no more than 0.5 mg every 3 days. ( 2.2 , 5.2 ) • See the Full Prescribing Information for the recommended dosage in geriatric patients, patients with hepatic impairment, and with use with ritonavir. ( 2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage Administer alprazolam XR orally once daily, preferably in the morning. The recommended starting oral dosage for alprazolam XR is 0.5 mg to 1 mg once daily. Controlled trials of alprazolam XR for the treatment of panic disorder included dosages in the range of 1 mg to 10 mg per day. The longer-term efficacy of alprazolam XR has not been systematically evaluated. If alprazolam XR is used for periods longer than 8 weeks, the healthcare provider should periodically reassess the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. After a period of extended freedom from panic attacks, a carefully supervised tapered discontinuation may be attempted, but there is evidence that this may often be difficult to accomplish without recurrence of symptoms and/or the manifestation of withdrawal phenomena [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 2.2 Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Alprazolam XR To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue alprazolam XR or reduce the dosage. Subsequently decrease the dosage more slowly [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3) ] . 2.3 Dosage Recommendations in Geriatric Patients In geriatric patients, the recommended starting dosage of alprazolam XR is 0.5 mg once daily. Geriatric patients may be sensitive to the effects of benzodiazepines [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.4 Dosage Recommendations in Patients with Hepatic Impairment In patients with hepatic impairment, the recommended starting dosage of alprazolam XR is 0.5 mg once daily. 2.5 Dosage Modifications for Drug Interactions Alprazolam XR should be reduced to half of the recommended dosage when a patient is started on ritonavir and alprazolam XR together, or when ritonavir is added to a patient treated with alprazolam XR. Increase alprazolam XR dosage to the target dose after 10 to 14 days of dosing ritonavir and alprazolam XR together. It is not necessary to reduce alprazolam XR dosage in patients who have been taking ritonavir for more than 10 to 14 days. Alprazolam XR is contraindicated with concomitant use of all strong CYP3A inhibitors, except ritonavir [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . 2.6 Switching Patients from Alprazolam Tablets to Alprazolam XR Tablets Patients who are currently being treated with divided doses of alprazolam may be switched to alprazolam XR at the same total daily dose taken once daily. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Generalized Anxiety Disorder : ( 2.1 ) o Recommended starting oral dosage is 0.25 mg to 0.5 mg three times daily. o Dosage may be increased, at intervals of every 3 to 4 days, to a maximum recommended daily dose of 4 mg, given in divided doses. o Use the lowest possible effective dose and frequently assess the need for continued treatment. • Panic Disorder : Recommended starting oral dosage is 0.5 mg three times daily. ( 2.2 ) • When tapering, decrease dosage by no more than 0.5 mg every 3 days. ( 2.3 , 5.2 ) • See the Full Prescribing Information for the recommended dosage in geriatric patients, patients with hepatic impairment, and with use with ritonavir. In a controlled postmarketing dose‑response study, patients treated with doses of alprazolam greater than 4 mg per day for 3 months were able to taper to 50% of their total maintenance dose without apparent loss of clinical benefit. Alprazolam is contraindicated with concomitant use of all strong CYP3A inhibitors, except ritonavir [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Generalized Anxiety Disorder : (2.1) Recommended starting oral dosage is 0.25 mg to 0.5 mg three times daily. The necessary duration of treatment for PD in patients responding to alprazolam tablets is unknown. After a period of extended freedom from panic attacks, a carefully supervised tapered discontinuation may be attempted, but there is evidence that this may often be difficult to accomplish without recurrence of symptoms and/or the manifestation of withdrawal phenomena [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] . Subsequently decrease the dosage more slowly [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3) , Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )] . Alprazolam tablets is contraindicated with concomitant use of all strong CYP3A inhibitors, except ritonavir [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] .
Warnings: WARNINGS Risks from Concomitant Use with Opioids Concomitant use of benzodiazepines, including alprazolam, and opioids may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. Because of these risks, reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Observational studies have demonstrated that concomitant use of opioid analgesics and benzodiazepines increases the risk of drug-related mortality compared to use of opioids alone. If a decision is made to prescribe alprazolam concomitantly with opioids, prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use, and follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. In patients already receiving an opioid analgesic, prescribe a lower initial dose of alprazolam than indicated in the absence of an opioid and titrate based on clinical response. If an opioid is initiated in a patient already taking alprazolam, prescribe a lower initial dose of the opioid and titrate based upon clinical response. Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when alprazolam is used with opioids. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use with the opioid have been determined (see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ). Abuse, Misuse, and Addiction The use of benzodiazepines, including alprazolam, exposes users to the risks of abuse, misuse, and addiction, which can lead to overdose or death. Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines often (but not always) involve the use of doses greater than the maximum recommended dosage and commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes, including respiratory depression, overdose, or death (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE - Abuse ). Before prescribing Alprazolam and throughout treatment, assess each patient's risk for abuse, misuse, and addiction (e.g., using a standardized screening tool). Use of Alprazolam, particularly in patients at elevated risk, necessitates counseling about the risks and proper use of Alprazolam along with monitoring for signs and symptoms of abuse, misuse, and addiction. Prescribe the lowest effective dosage; avoid or minimize concomitant use of CNS depressants and other substances associated with abuse, misuse, and addiction (e.g., opioid analgesics, stimulants); and advise patients on the proper disposal of unused drug. If a substance use disorder is suspected, evaluate the patient and institute (or refer them for) early treatment, as appropriate. Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue Alprazolam or reduce the dosage (a patient-specific plan should be used to taper the dose) (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION - Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Alprazolam . Patients at an increased risk of withdrawal adverse reactions after benzodiazepine discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction include those who take higher dosages, and those who have had longer durations of use. Acute Withdrawal Reactions The continued use of benzodiazepines, including Alprazolam, may lead to clinically significant physical dependence. Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of Alprazolam after continued use, or administration of flumazenil (a benzodiazepine antagonist) may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening (e.g., seizures) (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE - Dependence ) . Protracted Withdrawal Syndrome In some cases, benzodiazepine users have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with withdrawal symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE - Dependence ). Certain adverse clinical events, some life-threatening, are a direct consequence of physical dependence to Alprazolam. These include a spectrum of withdrawal symptoms; the most important is seizure (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ). Even after relatively short-term use at the doses recommended for the treatment of transient anxiety and anxiety disorder (i.e., 0.75 to 4.0 mg per day), there is some risk of dependence. Spontaneous reporting system data suggest that the risk of dependence and its severity appear to be greater in patients treated with doses greater than 4 mg/day and for long periods (more than 12 weeks). However, in a controlled postmarketing discontinuation study of panic disorder patients, the duration of treatment (3 months compared to 6 months) had no effect on the ability of patients to taper to zero dose. In contrast, patients treated with doses of Alprazolam greater than 4 mg/day had more difficulty tapering to zero dose than those treated with less than 4 mg/day. The importance of dose and the risks of Alprazolam as a treatment for panic disorder Because the management of panic disorder often requires the use of average daily doses of Alprazolam above 4 mg, the risk of dependence among panic disorder patients may be higher than that among those treated for less severe anxiety. Experience in randomized placebo-controlled discontinuation studies of patients with panic disorder showed a high rate of rebound and withdrawal symptoms in patients treated with Alprazolam compared to placebo-treated patients. Relapse or return of illness was defined as a return of symptoms characteristic of panic disorder (primarily panic attacks) to levels approximately equal to those seen at baseline before active treatment was initiated. Rebound refers to a return of symptoms of panic disorder to a level substantially greater in frequency, or more severe in intensity than seen at baseline. Withdrawal symptoms were identified as those which were generally not characteristic of panic disorder and which occurred for the first time more frequently during discontinuation than at baseline. In a controlled clinical trial in which 63 patients were randomized to Alprazolam and where withdrawal symptoms were specifically sought, the following were identified as symptoms of withdrawal: heightened sensory perception, impaired concentration, dysosmia, clouded sensorium, paresthesias, muscle cramps, muscle twitch, diarrhea, blurred vision, appetite decrease, and weight loss. Other symptoms, such as anxiety and insomnia, were frequently seen during discontinuation, but it could not be determined if they were due to return of illness, rebound, or withdrawal. In two controlled trials of 6 to 8 weeks duration where the ability of patients to discontinue medication was measured, 71%–93% of patients treated with Alprazolam tapered completely off therapy compared to 89%–96% of placebo-treated patients. In a controlled postmarketing discontinuation study of panic disorder patients, the duration of treatment (3 months compared to 6 months) had no effect on the ability of patients to taper to zero dose. Seizures attributable to Alprazolam were seen after drug discontinuance or dose reduction in 8 of 1980 patients with panic disorder or in patients participating in clinical trials where doses of Alprazolam greater than 4 mg/day for over 3 months were permitted. Five of these cases clearly occurred during abrupt dose reduction, or discontinuation from daily doses of 2 to 10 mg. Three cases occurred in situations where there was not a clear relationship to abrupt dose reduction or discontinuation. In one instance, seizure occurred after discontinuation from a single dose of 1 mg after tapering at a rate of 1 mg every 3 days from 6 mg daily. In two other instances, the relationship to taper is indeterminate; in both of these cases the patients had been receiving doses of 3 mg daily prior to seizure. The duration of use in the above 8 cases ranged from 4 to 22 weeks. There have been occasional voluntary reports of patients developing seizures while apparently tapering gradually from Alprazolam. The risk of seizure seems to be greatest 24–72 hours after discontinuation (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION - Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Alprazolam ). Status Epilepticus and its Treatment The medical event voluntary reporting system shows that withdrawal seizures have been reported in association with the discontinuation of Alprazolam. In most cases, only a single seizure was reported; however, multiple seizures and status epilepticus were reported as well. Interdose Symptoms Early morning anxiety and emergence of anxiety symptoms between doses of Alprazolam have been reported in patients with panic disorder taking prescribed maintenance doses of alprazolam. These symptoms may reflect the development of tolerance or a time interval between doses which is longer than the duration of clinical action of the administered dose. In either case, it is presumed that the prescribed dose is not sufficient to maintain plasma levels above those needed to prevent relapse, rebound or withdrawal symptoms over the entire course of the interdosing interval. In these situations, it is recommended that the same total daily dose be given divided as more frequent administrations (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). CNS Depression and Impaired Performance Because of its CNS depressant effects, patients receiving alprazolam should be cautioned against engaging in hazardous occupations or activities requiring complete mental alertness such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle. For the same reason, patients should be cautioned about the simultaneous ingestion of alcohol and other CNS depressant drugs during treatment with alprazolam. Risk of Fetal Harm Benzodiazepines can potentially cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women. If alprazolam is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Because of experience with other members of the benzodiazepine class, alprazolam is assumed to be capable of causing an increased risk of congenital abnormalities when administered to a pregnant woman during the first trimester. Because use of these drugs is rarely a matter of urgency, their use during the first trimester should almost always be avoided. The possibility that a woman of childbearing potential may be pregnant at the time of institution of therapy should be considered. Patients should be advised that if they become pregnant during therapy or intend to become pregnant they should communicate with their physicians about the desirability of discontinuing the drug. Alprazolam Interaction with Drugs that Inhibit Metabolism via Cytochrome P4503A The initial step in alprazolam metabolism is hydroxylation catalyzed by cytochrome P450 3A (CYP3A). Drugs that inhibit this metabolic pathway may have a profound effect on the clearance of alprazolam. Consequently, alprazolam should be avoided in patients receiving very potent inhibitors of CYP3A. With drugs inhibiting CYP3A to a lesser but still significant degree, alprazolam should be used only with caution and consideration of appropriate dosage reduction. For some drugs, an interaction with alprazolam has been quantified with clinical data; for other drugs, interactions are predicted from in vitro data and/or experience with similar drugs in the same pharmacologic class. The following are examples of drugs known to inhibit the metabolism of alprazolam and/or related benzodiazepines, presumably through inhibition of CYP3A. Potent CYP3A Inhibitors Azole antifungal agents Ketoconazole and itraconazole are potent CYP3A inhibitors and have been shown in vivo to increase plasma alprazolam concentrations 3.98 fold and 2.70 fold, respectively. The coadministration of alprazolam with these agents is not recommended. Other azole-type antifungal agents should also be considered potent CYP3A inhibitors and the coadministration of alprazolam with them is not recommended (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Drugs demonstrated to be CYP 3A inhibitors on the basis of clinical studies involving alprazolam (caution and consideration of appropriate alprazolam dose reduction are recommended during coadministration with the following drugs) Nefazodone Coadministration of nefazodone increased alprazolam concentration two-fold. Fluvoxamine Coadministration of fluvoxamine approximately doubled the maximum plasma concentration of alprazolam, decreased clearance by 49%, increased half-life by 71%, and decreased measured psychomotor performance. Cimetidine Coadministration of cimetidine increased the maximum plasma concentration of alprazolam by 86%, decreased clearance by 42%, and increased half-life by 16%. Other drugs possibly affecting alprazolam metabolism Other drugs possibly affecting alprazolam metabolism by inhibition of CYP3A are discussed in the PRECAUTIONS section (see PRECAUTIONS–Drug Interactions ).
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Alprazolam tablets are contraindicated in patients: with known hypersensitivity to alprazolam or other benzodiazepines. Angioedema has been reported [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . taking strong cytochrome P450 3A (CYP3A) inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole), except ritonavir [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Drug Interactions (7.1) ] Known hypersensitivity to alprazolam or other benzodiazepines. ( 4 ) Concomitant use with strong cytochrome P450 3A (CYP3A) inhibitors, except ritonavir. ( 4 , 5.5 , 7.1 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Alprazolam extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients: with known hypersensitivity to alprazolam or other benzodiazepines. taking strong cytochrome P450 3A (CYP3A) inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole), except ritonavir [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Known hypersensitivity to alprazolam or other benzodiazepines. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Alprazolam is contraindicated in patients: with known hypersensitivity to alprazolam or other benzodiazepines. Angioedema has been reported [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . taking strong cytochrome P450 3A (CYP3A) inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole), except ritonavir [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] Known hypersensitivity to alprazolam or other benzodiazepines. CONTRAINDICATIONS Alprazolam Tablets are contraindicated in patients with known sensitivity to this drug or other benzodiazepines. Alprazolam is contraindicated with ketoconazole and itraconazole, since these medications significantly impair the oxidative metabolism mediated by cytochrome P450 3A (CYP3A) (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS–Drug Interactions ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Alprazolam XR is contraindicated in patients: • with known hypersensitivity to alprazolam or other benzodiazepines. • taking strong cytochrome P450 3A (CYP3A) inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole), except ritonavir [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . • Known hypersensitivity to alprazolam or other benzodiazepines. ( 4 ) • Concomitant use with strong cytochrome P450 3A (CYP3A) inhibitors, except ritonavir. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Alprazolam is contraindicated in patients: • with known hypersensitivity to alprazolam or other benzodiazepines. • taking strong cytochrome P450 3A (CYP3A) inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole), except ritonavir [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Drug Interactions (7.1) ] • Known hypersensitivity to alprazolam or other benzodiazepines.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Use with Opioids: Increase the risk of respiratory depression. ( 7.1 ) Use with Other CNS Depressants: Produces additive CNS depressant effects. ( 7.1 ) Use with Digoxin: Increase the risk of digoxin toxicity. ( 7.1 ) Use with CYP3A Inhibitors (except ritonavir): Increase the risk of adverse reactions of alprazolam. ( 4 , 5.5 , 7.1 ) Use with CYP3A Inducers: Increase the risk of reduced efficacy of alprazolam. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Alprazolam Table 4 includes clinically significant drug interactions with alprazolam [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Table 4: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Alprazolam Opioids Clinical implication The concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids increases the risk of respiratory depression because of actions at different receptor sites in the CNS that control respiration. Benzodiazepines interact at gamma-aminobutyric acid(GABA A ) sites and opioids interact primarily at mu receptors. When benzodiazepines and opioids are combined, the potential for benzodiazepines to significantly worsen opioid-related respiratory depression exists. Prevention or management Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of alprazolam and opioids, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Examples Morphine, buprenorphine, hydromorphone, oxymorphone, oxycodone, fentanyl, methadone, alfentanil, butorpenol, codeine, dihydrocodeine, meperidine, pentazocine, remifentanil, sufentanil, tapentadol, tramadol. CNS Depressants Clinical implication The benzodiazepines, including alprazolam, produce additive CNS depressant effects when coadministered with other CNS depressants. Prevention or management Limit dosage and duration of alprazolam during concomitant use with CNS depressants [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Examples Psychotropic medications, anticonvulsants, antihistaminics, ethanol, and other drugs which themselves produce CNS depression. Strong Inhibitors of CYP3A (except ritonavir) Clinical implication Concomitant use of alprazolam with strong CYP3A inhibitors has a profound effect on the clearance of alprazolam, resulting in increased concentrations of alprazolam and increased risk of adverse reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Prevention or management Concomitant use of alprazolam with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (except ritonavir) is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Examples Ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin Moderate or Weak Inhibitors of CYP3A Clinical implication Concomitant use of alprazolam with CYP3A inhibitors may increase the concentrations of alprazolam, resulting in increased risk of adverse reactions of alprazolam [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Prevention or management Avoid use and consider appropriate dose reduction when alprazolam is coadministered with a moderate or weak CYP3A inhibitor [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Examples Nefazodone, fluvoxamine, cimetidine, erythromycin CYP3A Inducers Clinical implication Concomitant use of CYP3A inducers can increase alprazolam metabolism and therefore can decease plasma levels of alprazolam [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Prevention or management Caution is recommended during coadministration with alprazolam. Examples Carbamazepine, phenytoin Ritonavir Clinical implication Interactions involving ritonavir and alprazolam are complex and time dependent. Short term administration of ritonavir increased alprazolam exposure due to CYP3A4 inhibition. Following long term treatment of ritonavir (>10 to 14 days), CYP3A4 induction offsets this inhibition. Alprazolam exposure was not meaningfully affected in the presence of ritonavir. Prevention or management Reduce alprazolam dosage when ritonavir and alprazolam are initiated concomitantly, or when ritonavir is added to a regimen where alprazolam is stabilized. Increase alprazolam dosage to the target dosage after 10 to 14 days of dosing ritonavir and alprazolam concomitantly. No dosage adjustment of alprazolam is necessary in patients receiving ritonavir for more than 10 to14 days [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] . Concomitant use of alprazolam with a strong CYP3A inhibitor, except ritonavir, is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Digoxin Clinical implication Increased digoxin concentrations have been reported when alprazolam was given, especially in geriatric patients (>65 years of age). Prevention or management In patients on digoxin therapy, measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating alprazolam. Continue monitoring digoxin serum concentration and toxicity frequently . Reduce the digoxin dose if necessary. 7.2 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Although interactions between benzodiazepines and commonly employed clinical laboratory tests have occasionally been reported, there is no consistent pattern for a specific drug or specific test. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Alprazolam Extended-Release Tablets Table 4 includes clinically significant drug interactions with alprazolam extended-release tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Table 4: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Alprazolam Extended-Release Tablets Opioids Clinical implication The concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids increases the risk of respiratory depression because of actions at different receptor sites in the CNS that control respiration. Benzodiazepines interact at gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA A ) sites and opioids interact primarily at mu receptors. Prevention or management Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of alprazolam extended-release tablets and opioids, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Prevention or management Limit dosage and duration of alprazolam extended-release tablets during concomitant use with CNS depressants [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Strong Inhibitors of CYP3A (except ritonavir) Clinical implication Concomitant use of alprazolam extended-release tablets with strong CYP3A inhibitors has a profound effect on the clearance of alprazolam, resulting in increased concentrations of alprazolam and increased risk of adverse reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Prevention or management Concomitant use of alprazolam extended-release tablets with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (except ritonavir) is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Examples Ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin Moderate or Weak Inhibitors of CYP3A Clinical implication Concomitant use of alprazolam extended-release tablets with CYP3A inhibitors may increase the concentrations of alprazolam extended-release tablets, resulting in increased risk of adverse reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Prevention or management Avoid use and consider appropriate dose reduction when alprazolam extended-release tablets are coadministered with a moderate or weak CYP3A inhibitor [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Following long term treatment of ritonavir (> 10 to 14 days), CYP3A4 induction offsets this inhibition. Prevention or management Reduce alprazolam extended-release tablets dose when a patient is initiated with ritonavir and alprazolam extended-release tablets concomitantly, or when ritonavir is added to a regimen where alprazolam extended-release tablets are stabilized. Increase alprazolam extended-release tablets dosage to the target dosage after 10 to 14 days of dosing ritonavir and alprazolam extended-release tablets concomitantly. No dosage adjustment of alprazolam extended-release tablets is necessary in patients receiving ritonavir for more than 10 to 14 days [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] . Concomitant use of alprazolam extended-release tablets with a strong CYP3A inhibitor, except ritonavir, is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Prevention or management In patients on digoxin therapy, measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating alprazolam extended-release tablets. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Alprazolam Table 4 includes clinically significant drug interactions with alprazolam [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Benzodiazepines interact at gammaaminobutyric acid(GABA A ) sites and opioids interact primarily at mu receptors. Prevention or management Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of alprazolam and opioids, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Prevention or management Limit dosage and duration of alprazolam during concomitant use with CNS depressants [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Strong Inhibitors of CYP3A (except ritonavir) Clinical implication Concomitant use of alprazolam with strong CYP3A inhibitors has a profound effect on the clearance of alprazolam, resulting in increased concentrations of alprazolam and increased risk of adverse reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Prevention or management Concomitant use of alprazolam with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (except ritonavir) is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )]. Examples Ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin Moderate or Weak Inhibitors of CYP3A Clinical implication Concomitant use of alprazolam with CYP3A inhibitors may increase the concentrations of alprazolam, resulting in increased risk of adverse reactions of alprazolam [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Prevention or management Avoid use and consider appropriate dose reduction when alprazolam is coadministered with a moderate or weak CYP3A inhibitor [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )]. Examples Nefazodone, fluvoxamine, cimetidine, erythromycin CYP3A Inducers Clinical implication Concomitant use of CYP3A inducers can increase alprazolam metabolism and therefore can decease plasma levels of alprazolam [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . No dosage adjustment of alprazolam is necessary in patients receiving ritonavir for more than 10 to14 days [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )] . Concomitant use of alprazolam with a strong CYP3A inhibitor, except ritonavir, is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )]. Digoxin Clinical implication Increased digoxin concentrations have been reported when alprazolam was given, especially in geriatric patients( >65 years of age). Drug Interactions Use with Opioids The concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids increases the risk of respiratory depression because of actions at different receptor sites in the CNS that control respiration. Benzodiazepines interact at GABA A sites and opioids interact primarily at mu receptors. Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Use with Other CNS Depressants If Alprazolam Tablets are to be combined with other psychotropic agents or anticonvulsant drugs, careful consideration should be given to the pharmacology of the agents to be employed, particularly with compounds which might potentiate the action of benzodiazepines. The benzodiazepines, including alprazolam, produce additive CNS depressant effects when co-administered with other psychotropic medications, anticonvulsants, antihistaminics, ethanol and other drugs which themselves produce CNS depression. Use with Imipramine and Desipramine The steady state plasma concentrations of imipramine and desipramine have been reported to be increased an average of 31% and 20%, respectively, by the concomitant administration of Alprazolam Tablets in doses up to 4 mg/day. The clinical significance of these changes is unknown. Drugs that inhibit alprazolam metabolism via cytochrome P450 3A The initial step in alprazolam metabolism is hydroxylation catalyzed by cytochrome P450 3A (CYP3A). Drugs which inhibit this metabolic pathway may have a profound effect on the clearance of alprazolam (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS for additional drugs of this type). Drugs demonstrated to be CYP3A inhibitors of possible clinical significance on the basis of clinical studies involving alprazolam (caution is recommended during coadministration with alprazolam) Fluoxetine Coadministration of fluoxetine with alprazolam increased the maximum plasma concentration of alprazolam by 46%, decreased clearance by 21%, increased half-life by 17%, and decreased measured psychomotor performance. Propoxyphene Coadministration of propoxyphene decreased the maximum plasma concentration of alprazolam by 6%, decreased clearance by 38%, and increased half-life by 58%. Oral Contraceptives Coadministration of oral contraceptives increased the maximum plasma concentration of alprazolam by 18%, decreased clearance by 22%, and increased half-life by 29%. Drugs and other substances demonstrated to be CYP 3A inhibitors on the basis of clinical studies involving benzodiazepines metabolized similarly to alprazolam or on the basis of in vitro studies with alprazolam or other benzodiazepines (caution is recommended during coadministration with alprazolam) Available data from clinical studies of benzodiazepines other than alprazolam suggest a possible drug interaction with alprazolam for the following: diltiazem, isoniazid, macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin and clarithromycin, and grapefruit juice. Data from in vitro studies of alprazolam suggest a possible drug interaction with alprazolam for the following: sertraline and paroxetine. However, data from an in vivo drug interaction study involving a single dose of alprazolam 1 mg and steady state dose of sertraline (50 to 150 mg/day) did not reveal any clinically significant changes in the pharmacokinetics of alprazolam. Data from in vitro studies of benzodiazepines other than alprazolam suggest a possible drug interaction for the following: ergotamine, cyclosporine, amiodarone, nicardipine, and nifedipine. Caution is recommended during the coadministration of any of these with alprazolam (see WARNINGS ). Drugs demonstrated to be inducers of CYP3A Carbamazepine can increase alprazolam metabolism and therefore can decrease plasma levels of alprazolam. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Use with Opioids: Increase the risk of respiratory depression. ( 7.1 ) • Use with Other CNS Depressants: Produces additive CNS depressant effects. ( 7.1 ) • Use with Digoxin: Increase the risk of digoxin toxicity. ( 7.1 ) • Use with CYP3A Inhibitors (except ritonavir): Increase the risk of adverse reactions of alprazolam. ( 4 , 5.5 , 7.1 ) • Use with CYP3A Inducers: Increase the risk of reduced efficacy of alprazolam. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Alprazolam XR Table 4 includes clinically significant drug interactions with alprazolam XR [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Table 4: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Alprazolam XR Opioids Clinical implication The concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids increases the risk of respiratory depression because of actions at different receptor sites in the CNS that control respiration. When benzodiazepines and opioids are combined, the potential for benzodiazepines to significantly worsen opioid‑related respiratory depression exists. Prevention or management Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of alprazolam XR and opioids, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Examples Morphine, buprenorphine, hydromorphone, oxymorphone, oxycodone, fentanyl, methadone, alfentanil, butorphanol, codeine, dihydrocodeine, meperidine, pentazocine, remifentanil, sufentanil, tapentadol, tramadol. Prevention or management Limit dosage and duration of alprazolam XR during concomitant use with CNS depressants [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Strong Inhibitors of CYP3A (except ritonavir) Clinical implication Concomitant use of alprazolam XR with strong CYP3A inhibitors has a profound effect on the clearance of alprazolam, resulting in increased concentrations of alprazolam and increased risk of adverse reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Prevention or management Concomitant use of alprazolam XR with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (except ritonavir) is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Examples Ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin Moderate or Weak Inhibitors of CYP3A Clinical implication Concomitant use of alprazolam XR with CYP3A inhibitors may increase the concentrations of alprazolam XR, resulting in increased risk of adverse reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Prevention or management Avoid use and consider appropriate dose reduction when alprazolam XR is coadministered with a moderate or weak CYP3A inhibitor [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Following long term treatment of ritonavir (> 10-14 days), CYP3A4 induction offsets this inhibition. Prevention or management Reduce alprazolam XR dose when a patient is initiated with ritonavir and alprazolam XR concomitantly, or when ritonavir is added to a regimen where alprazolam XR is stabilized. Increase alprazolam XR dosage to the target dosage after 10 to 14 days of dosing ritonavir and alprazolam XR concomitantly. No dosage adjustment of alprazolam XR is necessary in patients receiving ritonavir for more than 10 to 14 days [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] . Concomitant use of alprazolam XR with a strong CYP3A inhibitor, except ritonavir, is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Prevention or management In patients on digoxin therapy, measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating alprazolam XR. Continue monitoring digoxin serum concentration and toxicity frequently. Prevention or management Limit dosage and duration of alprazolam during concomitant use with CNS depressants [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Strong Inhibitors of CYP3A (except ritonavir) Clinical implication Concomitant use of alprazolam with strong CYP3A inhibitors has a profound effect on the clearance of alprazolam, resulting in increased concentrations of alprazolam and increased risk of adverse reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Prevention or management Concomitant use of alprazolam with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (except ritonavir) is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . Prevention or management Avoid use and consider appropriate dose reduction when alprazolam is coadministered with a moderate or weak CYP3A inhibitor [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . Concomitant use of alprazolam with a strong CYP3A inhibitor, except ritonavir, is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )].

=== PHENOBARBITAL ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sedative Anticonvulsant- For the treatment of generalized and partial seizures. INDICATIONS AND USAGE A. Sedative B. Anticonvulsant–For the treatment of generalized and partial seizures. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sedative Anticonvulsant – For the treatment of generalized and partial seizures. Anticonvulsant- For the treatment of generalized and partial seizures. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Based on a review of this drug by the National Academy of Sciences-National Research Council and/or other information, FDA has classified the indications as follows: "Possibly" effective: For use as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome (irritable colon, spastic colon, mucous colitis) and acute enterocolitis. May also be useful as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of duodenal ulcer. Final classification of the less-than-effective indications requires further investigation. IT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN CONCLUSIVELY WHETHER ANTICHOLINERGIC/ANTISPASMODIC DRUGS AID IN THE HEALING OF A DUODENAL ULCER, DECREASE THE RATE OF RECURRENCES OR PREVENT COMPLICATIONS.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of phenobarbital must be individualized with full knowledge of its particular characteristics. Factors of consideration are the patient's age, weight, and condition. ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported: CNS Depression- Residual sedation or "hangover," drowsiness, lethargy, and vertigo. Emotional disturbances and phobias may be accentuated. In some persons, barbiturates such as phenobarbital repeatedly produce excitement rather than depression, and the patient may appear to be inebriated. Irritability and hyperactivity can occur in children. Like other nonanalgesic hypnotic drugs, barbiturates such as phenobarbital, when given in the presence of pain, may cause restlessness, excitement, and even delirium. Rarely, the use of barbiturates results in localized or diffuse myalgic, neuralgic, or arthritic pain, especially in psychoneurotic patients with insomnia. The pain may appear in paroxysms, is most intense in the early morning hours, and is most frequently located in the region of the neck, shoulder girdle, and upper limbs. Symptoms may last for days after the drug is discontinued. Respiratory/Circulatory- Respiratory depression, apnea, circulatory collapse. Allergic- Acquired hypersensitivity to barbiturates consists chiefly in allergic reactions that occur especially in persons who tend to have asthma, urticaria, angioedema, and similar conditions. Hypersensitivity reactions in this category include localized swelling, particularly of the eyelids, cheeks, or lips, and erythematous dermatitis. Rarely, exfoliative dermatitis (eg, Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis) may be caused by phenobarbital and can prove fatal. The skin eruption may be associated with fever, delirium, and marked degenerative changes in the liver and other parenchymatous organs. In a few cases, megaloblastic anemia has been associated with the chronic use of phenobarbital. Other- Nausea and vomiting, headache, osteomalacia. The following adverse reactions and their incidence were compiled from surveillance of thousands of hospitalized patients who received barbiturates. Because such patients may be less aware of the milder adverse effects of barbiturates, the incidence of these reactions may be somewhat higher in fully ambulatory patients. More than 1 in 100 Patients The most common adverse reaction, estimated to occur at a rate of 1 to 3 patients per 100, is: Nervous System: Somnolence Less than 1 in 100 Patients Adverse reactions estimated to occur at a rate of less than 1 in 100 patients are listed below, grouped by organ system and by decreasing order of occurrence: Nervous System: Agitation, confusion, hyperkinesia, ataxia, CNS depression, nightmares, nervousness, psychiatric disturbances, hallucinations, insomnia, anxiety, dizziness, abnormality in thinking. Respiratory System : Hypoventilation, apnea Cardiovascular System: Bradycardia, hypotension, syncope Digestive System: Nausea, vomiting, constipation Other Reported Reactions: Headache, injection site reactions, hypersensitivity reactions (angioedema, skin rashes, exfoliative dermatitis), fever, liver damage, megaloblastic anemia following chronic phenobarbital use. Sedation For sedation, the drug may be administered in single doses of 30 to 120 mg repeated at intervals; frequency will be determined by the patient's response. It is generally considered that no more than 400 mg of phenobarbital should be administered during a 24-hour period. Adults Daytime Sedation: 30 to 120 mg daily in 2 to 3 divided doses. Oral Hypnotic: 100 to 200 mg. Anticonvulsant Use Clinical laboratories reference values should be used to determine the therapeutic anticonvulsant level of phenobarbital in the serum. To achieve the blood levels considered therapeutic in children, higher per-kilogram dosages are generally necessary for phenobarbital and most other anticonvulsants. In children and infants, phenobarbital at a loading dose of 15 to 20 mg/kg produces blood levels of about 20 µg/mL shortly after administration. Phenobarbital has been used in the treatment and prophylaxis of febrile seizures. However, it has not been established that prevention of febrile seizures influences the subsequent development of epilepsy. Adults: 60 to 200 mg/day. Children: 3 to 6 mg/kg/day. Special Patient Population Dosage should be reduced in the elderly or debilitated because these patients may be more sensitive to barbiturates. Dosage should be reduced for patients with impaired renal function or hepatic disease. Factors of consideration are the patient’s age, weight, and condition. Sedation: For sedation, the drug may be administered in single doses of 30 to 120 mg repeated at intervals; frequency will be determined by the patient’s response. Adults: Daytime Sedation: 30 to 120 mg daily in 2 to 3 divided doses. Oral Hypnotic: 100 to 200 mg Anticonvulsant Use –Clinical laboratory reference values should be used to determine the therapeutic anticonvulsant level of phenobarbital in the serum. To achieve the blood levels considered therapeutic in pediatric patients, higher per-kilogram dosages are generally necessary for phenobarbital and most other anticonvulsants. In pediatric patients and infants, phenobarbital at a loading dose of 15 to 20 mg/kg produces blood levels of about 20 mcg/mL shortly after administration. Pediatric Patients: 3 to 6 mg/kg/day. Special Patient Population –Dosage should be reduced in the elderly or debilitated because these patients may be more sensitive to barbiturates. Sedation: For sedation, the drug may be administered in single dose of 30 to 120 mg repeated at intervals: frequency will be determined by the patient’s response. Anticonvulsant Use – Clinical laboratory reference values should be used to determine the therapeutic anticonvulsant level of phenobarbital in the serum. In children and infants, phenobarbital at a loading dose of 15 to 20 mg/kg produces blood levels of about 20 mcg/mL shortly after administration. Special Patient Population – Dosage should be reduced in the elderly or debilitated because these patients may be more sensitive to barbiturates. Sedation For sedation, the drug may be administered in single dose of 30 to 120 mg repeated at intervals: frequency will be determined by the patient's response. Pediatric Patients : 3 to 6 mg/kg/day. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of phenobarbital must be individualized with full knowledge of it particular characteristics. Factors of consideration are the patients age, weight, and condition. Oral Hypnotic: 100 to 200 mg Anticonvulsant Use Clinical laboratory reference values should be used to determine the therapeutic anticonvulsant level of phenobarbital in the serum. In pediatric patients and infants, phenobarbital at a loading dose to 15 to 20 mg/kg produces blood levels of about 20 mcg/mL shortly after administration. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate and Scopolamine Hydrobromide Tablets should be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient to assure symptomatic control with a minimum of adverse effects. Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate and Scopolamine Hydrobromide Tablets - Adults: One or two Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate and Scopolamine Hydrobromide Tablets three or four times a day according to condition and severity of symptoms. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of Donnatal® Elixir should be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient to assure symptomatic control with a minimum of adverse effects. Donnatal® Elixir. Adults: One or two teaspoonfuls of elixir three or four times a day according to conditions and severity of symptoms. Pediatric patients: may be dosed every 4 to 6 hours. Use a pediatric dosing device or oral syringe to measure the dose. Starting Dosage Body weight Every 4 hours Every 6 hours 10 lb. (4.5 kg) 0.5 mL 0.75 mL 20 lb. (9.1 kg) 1 mL 1.5 mL 30 lb. (13.6 kg) 1.5 mL 2 mL 50 lb. (22.7 kg) 2.5 mL 3.75 mL 75 lb. (34 kg) 3.75 mL 5 mL 100 lb. (45.4 kg) 5 mL 7.5 mL
Warnings: WARNINGS 1. Habit-Forming Phenobarbital may be habit-forming. Tolerance and psychological and physical dependence may occur with continued use ( see Drug Abuse and Dependence and Pharmacokinetics under Clinical Pharmacology ). Patients who have psychologic dependence on barbiturates may increase the dosage or decrease the dosage interval without consulting a physician and may subsequently develop a physical dependence on barbiturates. In order to minimize the possibility of overdosage or the development of dependence, the prescribing and dispensing of sedative-hypnotic barbiturates should be limited to the amount required for the interval until the next appointment. Abrupt cessation after prolonged use in a person who is dependent on the drug may result in withdrawal symptoms, including delirium, convulsions, and possibly death. Barbiturates should be withdrawn gradually from any patient known to be taking excessive doses over long periods of time ( see Drug Abuse and Dependence ). 2. Acute or Chronic Pain Caution should be exercised when barbiturates are administered to patients with acute or chronic pain, because paradoxical excitement could be induced or important symptoms could be masked. However, the use of barbiturates as sedatives in the postoperative surgical period and as adjuncts to cancer chemotherapy is well established. 3. Usage in Pregnancy Barbiturates can cause fetal damage when administered to a pregnant woman. Retrospective, case-controlled studies have suggested a connection between the maternal consumption of barbiturates and a higher than expected incidence of fetal abnormalities. Barbiturates readily cross the placental barrier and are distributed throughout fetal tissues; the highest concentrations are found in the placenta, fetal liver and brain. Fetal blood levels approach maternal blood levels following parenteral administration. Withdrawal symptoms occur in infants born to women who receive barbiturates throughout the last trimester of pregnancy ( see Drug Abuse and Dependence ). If phenobarbital is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. 4. Usage in Children Phenobarbital has been reported to be associated with cognitive deficits in children taking it for complicated febrile seizures. 5. Synergistic Effects The concomitant use of alcohol or other CNS depressants may produce additive CNS depressant effects. WARNINGS Habit Forming –Phenobarbital may be habit forming. Acute or Chronic Pain –Caution should be exercised when barbiturates are administered to patients with acute or chronic pain, because paradoxical excitement could be induced or important symptoms could be masked. Usage in Pregnancy –Barbiturates can cause fetal damage when administered to a pregnant woman. Barbiturates readily cross the placental barrier and are distributed throughout fetal tissues; the highest concentrations are found in the placenta, fetal liver, and brain. Usage in Children –Phenobarbital has been reported to be associated with cognitive deficits in children taking it for complicated febrile seizures. Synergistic Effects –The concomitant use of alcohol or other CNS depressants may produce additive CNS depressant effects. WARNING: MAY BE HABIT-FORMING WARNINGS Habit Forming. Phenobarbital may be habit forming. Tolerance and psychological and physical dependence may occur with continued use (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE and Pharmacokinetics under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Barbiturates should be withdrawn gradually from any patient known to be taking excessive doses over long periods of time (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ). Acute or Chronic Pain. Caution should be exercised when barbiturates are administered to patients with acute or chronic pain, because paradoxical excitement could be induced or important symptoms could be masked. Usage in Pregnancy. Barbiturates can cause fetal damage when administered to a pregnant woman. Withdrawal symptoms occur in infants born to women who receive barbiturates throughout the last trimester of pregnancy (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ). Usage in Pediatric Patients. Phenobarbital has been reported to be associated with cognitive deficits in children taking it for complicated febrile seizures. Synergistic Effects. The concomitant use of alcohol or other CNS depressants may produce additive CNS depressant effects. Acute or Chronic Pain . Usage in Pediatric Patients . Tolerance and psychological and physical dependence may occur with continued use (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE and Pharmacokinetics under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). Habit Forming Phenobarbital may be habit forming. Tolerance and psychological and physical dependence may occur with continued use ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE and Pharmacokinetics under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). Acute or Chronic Pain Caution should be exercised when barbiturates are administered to patients with acute of chronic pain, because paradoxical excitement could be induced or important symptoms could be masked. WARNINGS Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate and Scopolamine Hydrobromide Tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate and Scopolamine Hydrobromide Tablets. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. In the presence of a high environmental temperature, heat prostration can occur with belladonna alkaloids (fever and heatstroke due to decreased sweating). Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction, especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy. In this instance, treatment with this drug would be inappropriate and possibly harmful. Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate and Scopolamine Hydrobromide Tablets may produce drowsiness or blurred vision. The patient should be warned, should these occur, not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness, such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery, and not to perform hazardous work. Phenobarbital may decrease the effect of anticoagulants, and necessitate larger doses of the anticoagulant for optimal effect. When the phenobarbital is discontinued, the dose of the anticoagulant may have to be decreased. Phenobarbital may be habit forming and should not be administered to individuals known to be addiction prone or to those with a history of physical and/or psychological dependence upon drugs. Since barbiturates are metabolized in the liver, they should be used with caution and initial doses should be small in patients with hepatic dysfunction. WARNINGS Donnatal® Elixir can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Donnatal® Elixir. Donnatal® Elixir may produce drowsiness or blurred vision.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Phenobarbital is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to barbiturates, in patients with a history of manifest or latent porphyria, and in patients with marked impairment of liver function or respiratory disease in which dyspnea or obstruction is evident. CONTRAINDICATIONS glaucoma; obstructive uropathy (for example, bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy); obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract (as in achalasia, pyloroduodenal stenosis, etc.); paralytic ileus, intestinal atony of the elderly or debilitated patient; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage; severe ulcerative colitis especially if complicated by toxic megacolon; myasthenia gravis; hiatal hernia associated with reflux esophagitis; in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients. Phenobarbital is contraindicated in acute intermittent porphyria and in those patients in whom phenobarbital produces restlessness and/or excitement.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Most reports of clinically significant drug interactions occurring with the barbiturates have involved phenobarbital. However, the application of these data to other barbiturates appears valid and warrants serial blood level determinations of the relevant drugs when there are multiple therapies. 1. Anticoagulants Phenobarbital lowers the plasma levels of dicumarol and causes a decrease in anticoagulant activity as measured by the prothrombin time. Barbiturates can induce hepatic microsomal enzymes resulting in increased metabolism and decreased anticoagulant response of oral anticoagulants (eg, warfarin, acenocoumarol, dicumarol, and phenprocoumon). Patients stabilized on anticoagulant therapy may require dosage adjustments if barbiturates are added to or withdrawn from their dosage regimen. 2. Corticosteroids Barbiturates appear to enhance the metabolism of exogenous corticosteroids, probably through the induction of hepatic microsomal enzymes. Patients stabilized on corticosteroid therapy may require dosage adjustments if barbiturates are added to or withdrawn from their dosage regimen. 3. Griseofulvin Phenobarbital appears to interfere with the absorption of orally administered griseofulvin, thus decreasing its blood level. The effect of the resultant decreased blood levels of griseofulvin on therapeutic response has not been established. However, it would be preferable to avoid concomitant administration of these drugs. 4. Doxycycline Phenobarbital has been shown to shorten the half-life of doxycycline for as long as 2 weeks after barbiturate therapy is discontinued. This mechanism is probably through the induction of hepatic microsomal enzymes that metabolize the antibiotic. If phenobarbital and doxycycline are administered concurrently, the clinical response to doxycycline should be monitored closely. 5. Phenytoin, Sodium Valproate, Valproic Acid The effect of barbiturates on the metabolism of phenytoin appears to be variable. Some investigators report an accelerating effect, whereas others report no effect. Because the effect of barbiturates on the metabolism of phenytoin is not predictable, phenytoin and barbiturate blood levels should be monitored more frequently if these drugs are given concurrently. Sodium valproate and valproic acid increase the phenobarbital serum levels; therefore, phenobarbital blood levels should be closely monitored and appropriate dosage adjustments made as clinically indicated. 6. CNS Depressants The concomitant use of other CNS depressants, including other sedatives or hypnotics, antihistamines, tranquilizers, or alcohol, may produce additive depressant effects. 7. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) MAOIs prolong the effects of barbiturates, probably because metabolism of the barbiturate is inhibited. 8. Estradiol, Estrone Progesterone, and Other Steroidal Hormones Pretreatment with or concurrent administration of phenobarbital may decrease the effect of estradiol by increasing its metabolism. There have been reports of patients treated with antiepileptic drugs (eg, phenobarbital) who become pregnant while taking oral contraceptives. An alternate contraceptive method might be suggested to women taking phenobarbital. However, the application of this data to other barbiturates appears valid and warrants serial blood level determinations of the relevant drugs when there are multiple therapies. Anticoagulants –Phenobarbital lowers the plasma levels of dicumarol and causes a decrease in anticoagulant activity as measured by the prothrombin time. Barbiturates can induce hepatic microsomal enzymes resulting in increased metabolism and decreased anticoagulant response of oral anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin, acenocoumarol, dicumarol, and phenprocoumon). Corticosteroids –Barbiturates appear to enhance the metabolism of exogenous corticosteroids, probably through the induction of hepatic microsomal enzymes. Griseofulvin –Phenobarbital appears to interfere with the absorption of orally administered griseofulvin, thus decreasing its blood level. Doxycycline –Phenobarbital has been shown to shorten the half-life of doxycycline for as long as 2 weeks after barbiturate therapy is discontinued. Phenytoin, Sodium Valproate, Valproic Acid –The effect of barbiturates on the metabolism of phenytoin appears to be variable. CNS Depressants –The concomitant use of other CNS depressants, including other sedatives or hypnotics, antihistamines, tranquilizers, or alcohol, may produce additive depressant effects. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) –MAOIs prolong the effects of barbiturates, probably because metabolism of the barbiturate is inhibited. Estradiol, Estrone, Progesterone, and other Steroidal Hormones –Pretreatment with or concurrent administration of phenobarbital may decrease the effect of estradiol by increasing its metabolism. There have been reports of patients treated with antiepileptic drugs (e.g., phenobarbital) who become pregnant while taking oral contraceptives. Anticoagulants. Phenobarbital lowers the plasma levels of dicumarol and causes a decrease in anticoagulant activity as measured by the prothrombin time. Barbiturates can induce hepatic microsomal enzymes resulting in increased metabolism and decreased anticoagulant response of oral anticoagulants (e.g., acenocoumarol, warfarin, dicumarol, and phenprocoumon). Corticosteroids. Barbiturates appear to enhance the metabolism of exogenous corticosteroids, probably through the induction of hepatic microsomal enzymes. Griseofulvin. Phenobarbital appears to interfere with the absorption of orally administered griseofulvin, thus decreasing its blood level. Doxycycline. Phenobarbital has been shown to shorten the half-life of doxycycline for as long as 2 weeks after barbiturate therapy is discontinued. Phenytoin, Sodium Valproate, Valproic Acid. The effect of barbiturates on the metabolism of phenytoin appears to be variable. CNS Depressants. The concomitant use of other CNS depressants, including other sedatives or hypnotics, antihistamines, tranquilizers, or alcohol, may produce additive depressant effects. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs). MAOIs prolong the effects of barbiturates, probably because metabolism of the barbiturate is inhibited. Estradiol, Estrone, Progesterone, and other Steroidal Hormones. Pretreatment with or concurrent administration of phenobarbital may decrease the effect of estradiol by increasing its metabolism. Anticoagulants . Doxycycline . Phenytoin, Sodium Valproate, Valproic Acid . CNS Depressants . Estradiol, Estrone, Progesterone, and other Steroidal Hormones . Griseofulvin Phenobarbital appears to interfere with the absorptions of orally administered griseofulvin, thus decreasing its blood level. Sodium valproate and valproic acid increase the phenobarbital serum levels; therefore, phenobarbital blood levels should be closely monitored, and appropriate dosage adjustments made as clinically indicated. CNS Depressants The concomitant use of other CNS depressants, including other sedatives or hypnotics, antihistamines, tranquilizers, or alcohol, may produce additive depressants. Estradiol, Estrone, Progesterone, and other Steroidal Hormones Pretreatment with or concurrent administration of phenobarbital may decrease the effect of estradiol by increasing its metabolism. Drug Interactions Phenobarbital may decrease the effect of anticoagulants, and necessitate larger doses of the anticoagulant for optimal effect. When the phenobarbital is discontinued, the dose of the anticoagulant may have to be decreased.

=== BACITRACIN ZINC ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose First Aid Antibiotic Purpose First aid antibiotic First aid antibiotic First aid antibiotic Active ingredients (in each gram) Purposes Bacitracin 500 units First aid antibiotic Neomycin 3.5 mg First aid antibiotic Polymyxin B 10,000 units First aid antibiotic Pramoxine HCl 10 mg Topical pain reliever Uses first aid to help prevent infection and for temporary relief of pain or discomfort in minor: cuts scrapes burns Purposes First aid antibiotic First aid antibiotic First aid antibiotic External analgesic
Indications: Use(s) First aid to help prevent infection in minor cuts, scrapes, and burns Uses First aid to help prevent infection in minor cuts, scrapes and burns Uses first aid to help prevent infection in minor:● cuts ● scrapes ● burns Uses first aid to help prevent infection and for temporary relief of pain or discomfort in minor: cuts scrapes burns Directions adults and children 2 years of age and older: clean the affected area apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage children under 2 years of age: ask a doctor Uses first aid to help prevent infection in minor: • cuts • scrapes • burns Uses first aid to help prevent infection and for the temporary relief of pain in minor: cuts scrapes burns Uses First aid to help prevent infection in minor cuts, scrapes, and burns
Dosage: Directions Clean the affected area. Apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily. May be covered with a sterile bandage. Directions Clean the affected area Apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily May be covered with a sterile bandage. Directions Clean and disinfect the affected area Apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily May be covered with a sterile bandage. Directions ● clean the affected area and dry thoroughly. ● apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily ● may be covered with a sterile bandage. Directions unscrew cap and pull tab to remove foil seal adults and children 2 years of age and older: clean the affected area apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage children under 2 years of age: ask a doctor DISTRIBUTED BY: WINCO FOODS, LLC, BOISE, ID 83704 Directions • clean the affected area • apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily • may be covered with a sterile bandage Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older clean affected area apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage Children under 2 years of age: ask a doctor Apply a small amount (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily.
Warnings: Warnings For External Use Only Do not use • In the eyes or apply over large areas of the body • If you are allergic to any of the ingredients • Longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if You have deep or puncture wounds, animal bites, or serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • The condition persists or gets worse • A rash or other allergic reaction develops Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings For external use only. Warnings For External Use Only Do not use • In the eyes or apply over large areas of the body • If you are allergic to any of the ingredients • Longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if You have deep or puncture wounds, animal bites, or serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • The condition persists or gets worse • A rash or other allergic reation develops Keep out of reach of children. Warnings For external use only Do not use if you are allergic to any of the ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns When using this product do not use in the eyes do not apply over large areas of the body Stop use and ask a doctor if you need to use for more than 1 week condition persists or gets worse symptoms persist for more than 1 week or clear up and occur again within a few days rash or other allergic reaction develops Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Warnings For external use only Do not use • if you are allergic to any of the ingredients • in the eyes • over large areas of the body Ask a doctor before use if you have • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • you need to use longer than 1 week • condition persists or gets worse • rash or other allergic reaction develops Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222) Warnings For External Use Only Do not use if you are allergic to any of the ingredients in the eyes over large areas of the body Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if you need to use longer than 1 week condition persists or gets worse symptoms persist for more than 1 week, or clear up and occur again within a few day a rash or other allergic reaction develops

=== NEOMYCIN SULFATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose First Aid Antibiotic Purpose First aid antibiotic First aid antibiotic First aid antibiotic Active ingredients (in each gram) Purposes Bacitracin 500 units First aid antibiotic Neomycin 3.5 mg First aid antibiotic Polymyxin B 10,000 units First aid antibiotic Pramoxine HCl 10 mg Topical pain reliever Uses first aid to help prevent infection and for temporary relief of pain or discomfort in minor: cuts scrapes burns Purposes First aid antibiotic First aid antibiotic First aid antibiotic External analgesic
Indications: Use(s) First aid to help prevent infection in minor cuts, scrapes, and burns Uses First aid to help prevent infection in minor cuts, scrapes and burns Uses first aid to help prevent infection in minor:● cuts ● scrapes ● burns Uses first aid to help prevent infection and for temporary relief of pain or discomfort in minor: cuts scrapes burns Directions adults and children 2 years of age and older: clean the affected area apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage children under 2 years of age: ask a doctor Uses first aid to help prevent infection in minor: • cuts • scrapes • burns Uses first aid to help prevent infection and for the temporary relief of pain in minor: cuts scrapes burns Uses First aid to help prevent infection in minor cuts, scrapes, and burns
Dosage: Directions Clean the affected area. Apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily. May be covered with a sterile bandage. Directions Clean the affected area Apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily May be covered with a sterile bandage. Directions Clean and disinfect the affected area Apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily May be covered with a sterile bandage. Directions ● clean the affected area and dry thoroughly. ● apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily ● may be covered with a sterile bandage. Directions unscrew cap and pull tab to remove foil seal adults and children 2 years of age and older: clean the affected area apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage children under 2 years of age: ask a doctor DISTRIBUTED BY: WINCO FOODS, LLC, BOISE, ID 83704 Directions • clean the affected area • apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily • may be covered with a sterile bandage Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older clean affected area apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage Children under 2 years of age: ask a doctor Apply a small amount (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily.
Warnings: Warnings For External Use Only Do not use • In the eyes or apply over large areas of the body • If you are allergic to any of the ingredients • Longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if You have deep or puncture wounds, animal bites, or serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • The condition persists or gets worse • A rash or other allergic reaction develops Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings For external use only. Warnings For External Use Only Do not use • In the eyes or apply over large areas of the body • If you are allergic to any of the ingredients • Longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if You have deep or puncture wounds, animal bites, or serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • The condition persists or gets worse • A rash or other allergic reation develops Keep out of reach of children. Warnings For external use only Do not use if you are allergic to any of the ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns When using this product do not use in the eyes do not apply over large areas of the body Stop use and ask a doctor if you need to use for more than 1 week condition persists or gets worse symptoms persist for more than 1 week or clear up and occur again within a few days rash or other allergic reaction develops Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Warnings For external use only Do not use • if you are allergic to any of the ingredients • in the eyes • over large areas of the body Ask a doctor before use if you have • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • you need to use longer than 1 week • condition persists or gets worse • rash or other allergic reaction develops Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222) Warnings For External Use Only Do not use if you are allergic to any of the ingredients in the eyes over large areas of the body Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if you need to use longer than 1 week condition persists or gets worse symptoms persist for more than 1 week, or clear up and occur again within a few day a rash or other allergic reaction develops

=== POLYMYXIN B SULFATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose First Aid Antibiotic Purpose First aid antibiotic First aid antibiotic First aid antibiotic Active ingredients (in each gram) Purposes Bacitracin 500 units First aid antibiotic Neomycin 3.5 mg First aid antibiotic Polymyxin B 10,000 units First aid antibiotic Pramoxine HCl 10 mg Topical pain reliever Uses first aid to help prevent infection and for temporary relief of pain or discomfort in minor: cuts scrapes burns Purposes First aid antibiotic First aid antibiotic First aid antibiotic External analgesic
Indications: Use(s) First aid to help prevent infection in minor cuts, scrapes, and burns Uses First aid to help prevent infection in minor cuts, scrapes and burns Uses first aid to help prevent infection in minor:● cuts ● scrapes ● burns Uses first aid to help prevent infection and for temporary relief of pain or discomfort in minor: cuts scrapes burns Directions adults and children 2 years of age and older: clean the affected area apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage children under 2 years of age: ask a doctor Uses first aid to help prevent infection in minor: • cuts • scrapes • burns Uses first aid to help prevent infection and for the temporary relief of pain in minor: cuts scrapes burns Uses First aid to help prevent infection in minor cuts, scrapes, and burns
Dosage: Directions Clean the affected area. Apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily. May be covered with a sterile bandage. Directions Clean the affected area Apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily May be covered with a sterile bandage. Directions Clean and disinfect the affected area Apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily May be covered with a sterile bandage. Directions ● clean the affected area and dry thoroughly. ● apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily ● may be covered with a sterile bandage. Directions unscrew cap and pull tab to remove foil seal adults and children 2 years of age and older: clean the affected area apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage children under 2 years of age: ask a doctor DISTRIBUTED BY: WINCO FOODS, LLC, BOISE, ID 83704 Directions • clean the affected area • apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily • may be covered with a sterile bandage Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older clean affected area apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage Children under 2 years of age: ask a doctor Apply a small amount (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily.
Warnings: Warnings For External Use Only Do not use • In the eyes or apply over large areas of the body • If you are allergic to any of the ingredients • Longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if You have deep or puncture wounds, animal bites, or serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • The condition persists or gets worse • A rash or other allergic reaction develops Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings For external use only. Warnings For External Use Only Do not use • In the eyes or apply over large areas of the body • If you are allergic to any of the ingredients • Longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if You have deep or puncture wounds, animal bites, or serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • The condition persists or gets worse • A rash or other allergic reation develops Keep out of reach of children. Warnings For external use only Do not use if you are allergic to any of the ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns When using this product do not use in the eyes do not apply over large areas of the body Stop use and ask a doctor if you need to use for more than 1 week condition persists or gets worse symptoms persist for more than 1 week or clear up and occur again within a few days rash or other allergic reaction develops Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Warnings For external use only Do not use • if you are allergic to any of the ingredients • in the eyes • over large areas of the body Ask a doctor before use if you have • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • you need to use longer than 1 week • condition persists or gets worse • rash or other allergic reaction develops Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222) Warnings For External Use Only Do not use if you are allergic to any of the ingredients in the eyes over large areas of the body Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if you need to use longer than 1 week condition persists or gets worse symptoms persist for more than 1 week, or clear up and occur again within a few day a rash or other allergic reaction develops

=== CLINDAMYCIN PHOSPHATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clindamycin phosphate topical lotion is indicated in the treatment of acne vulgaris. In view of the potential for diarrhea, bloody diarrhea and pseudomembranous colitis, the physician should consider whether other agents are more appropriate (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE XACIATO is a lincosamide antibacterial indicated for the treatment of bacterial vaginosis in female patients 12 years of age and older. ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Bacterial Vaginosis XACIATO ® is indicated for the treatment of bacterial vaginosis in females 12 years and older [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . INDICATIONS AND USAGE CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE products are indicated in the treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible anaerobic bacteria. CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE products are also indicated in the treatment of serious infections due to susceptible strains of streptococci, pneumococci, and staphylococci. Its use should be reserved for penicillin-allergic patients or other patients for whom, in the judgment of the physician, a penicillin is inappropriate. Because of the risk of antibacterial drug-associated pseudomembranous colitis, as described in the BOXED WARNING , before selecting clindamycin the physician should consider the nature of the infection and the suitability of less toxic alternatives (e.g., erythromycin). Bacteriologic studies should be performed to determine the causative organisms and their susceptibility to clindamycin. Indicated surgical procedures should be performed in conjunction with antibacterial drug therapy. CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE is indicated in the treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated organisms in the conditions listed below: Lower respiratory tract infections including pneumonia, empyema, and lung abscess caused by anaerobes, Streptococcus pneumoniae, other streptococci (except E. faecalis ), and Staphylococcus aureus. Skin and skin structure infections caused by Streptococcus pyogenes, Staphylococcus aureus , and anaerobes. Gynecological infections including endometritis, nongonococcal tubo-ovarian abscess, pelvic cellulitis, and postsurgical vaginal cuff infection caused by susceptible anaerobes. Intra-abdominal infections including peritonitis and intra-abdominal abscess caused by susceptible anaerobic organisms. Septicemia caused by Staphylococcus aureus , streptococci (except Enterococcus faecalis ), and susceptible anaerobes. Bone and joint infections including acute hematogenous osteomyelitis caused by Staphylococcus aureus and as adjunctive therapy in the surgical treatment of chronic bone and joint infections due to susceptible organisms. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE and other antibacterial drugs, CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 12 years or older. Clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel is a combination of clindamycin phosphate (a lincosamide antibacterial) and benzoyl peroxide indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 12 years or older. ( 1 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1%/5% is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clindamycin and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1%/5% is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris. Because of the risk of antibiotic-associated pseudomembranous colitis, as described in the BOXED WARNING , before selecting clindamycin the physician should consider the nature of the infection and the suitability of less toxic alternatives (e.g., erythromycin). Indicated surgical procedures should be performed in conjunction with antibiotic therapy. faecalis), and Staphylococcus aureus. Skin and skin structure infections caused by Streptococcus pyogenes, Staphylococcus aureus, and anaerobes. Septicemia caused by Staphylococcus aureus, streptococci (except Enterococcus faecalis), and susceptible anaerobes. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clindamycin phosphate topical solution USP, 1% is indicated in the treatment of acne vulgaris. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clindamycin phosphate gel, 1% is indicated in the treatment of acne vulgaris.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of clindamycin phosphate topical lotion twice daily to affected area. Lotion: Shake well immediately before using. Keep all liquid dosage forms in containers tightly closed. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of XACIATO is one applicatorful (5 g of vaginal gel containing 100 mg of clindamycin) administered once intravaginally as a single dose at any time of the day [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . Place the used tube with any remaining gel and used applicator in the container box and deposit in a trash container after use [see Instructions for Use ] . XACIATO is not for ophthalmic, dermal, or oral use. Administer one applicatorful (5 g of gel containing 100 mg of clindamycin) once intravaginally as a single dose at any time of the day. ( 2 ) Not for ophthalmic, dermal, or oral use. ( 2 ) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION If diarrhea occurs during therapy, this antibacterial drug should be discontinued (see WARNING box ). Clindamycin phosphate IM administration should be used undiluted. Clindamycin phosphate IV administration should be diluted (see Dilution for IV use and IV infusion rates below). Adults: Parenteral (IM or IV Administration): Serious infections due to aerobic gram-positive cocci and the more susceptible anaerobes (NOT generally including Bacteroides fragilis , Peptococcus species and Clostridium species other than Clostridium perfringens ): 600–1200 mg/day in 2, 3 or 4 equal doses. More severe infections, particularly those due to proven or suspected Bacteroides fragilis, Peptococcus species, or Clostridium species other than Clostridium perfringens : 1200–2700 mg/day in 2, 3 or 4 equal doses. For more serious infections, these doses may have to be increased. In life-threatening situations due to either aerobes or anaerobes these doses may be increased. Doses of as much as 4800 mg daily have been given intravenously to adults. See Dilution for IV use and IV Infusion Rates section below. Single intramuscular injections of greater than 600 mg are not recommended. Alternatively, drug may be administered in the form of a single rapid infusion of the first dose followed by continuous IV infusion as follows: Table 2: Serum Clindamycin Levels Maintained, Rapid Infusion Rate and Maintenance Infusion Rate To maintain serum clindamycin levels Rapid infusion rate Maintenance infusion rate Above 4 mcg/mL 10 mg/min for 30 min 0.75 mg/min Above 5 mcg/mL 15 mg/min for 30 min 1.00 mg/min Above 6 mcg/mL 20 mg/min for 30 min 1.25 mg/min Pediatric Patients 1 month of age to 16 years: Parenteral (IM or IV) Administration: 20 to 40 mg/kg/day in 3 or 4 equal doses. The higher doses would be used for more severe infections. Clindamycin should be dosed based on total body weight regardless of obesity. As an alternative to dosing on a body weight basis, pediatric patients may be dosed on the basis of square meters body surface: 350 mg/m 2 /day for serious infections and 450 mg/m 2 /day for more severe infections. Parenteral therapy may be changed to oral CLEOCIN PEDIATRIC ® Flavored Granules (clindamycin palmitate hydrochloride) or CLEOCIN HCl ® Capsules (clindamycin hydrochloride) when the condition warrants and at the discretion of the physician. In cases of β-hemolytic streptococcal infections, treatment should be continued for at least 10 days. Pediatric Patients less than 1 month: The recommended dosage is 15 to 20 mg/kg/day in 3 to 4 equal doses. See Table 3 regarding the dosing regimen for pediatric patients with post-menstrual age (PMA) less than or equal to 32 weeks, or greater than 32 weeks to less than or equal to 40 weeks. Table 3: Dosing Regimens for Pediatric Patients with PMA less than or equal to 32 weeks, or greater than 32 weeks to less than or equal to 40 weeks PMA (weeks) Dose (mg/kg) Dosing Interval (hours) PMA: Post-Menstrual age Less than or equal to 32 5 8 Greater than or equal to 32 to less than or equal to 40 7 8 Dilution for IV use and IV Infusion Rates: The concentration of clindamycin in diluent for infusion should not exceed 18 mg per mL. Infusion rates should not exceed 30 mg per minute. The usual infusion dilutions and rates are as follows: Dose Diluent Time 300 mg 50 mL 10 min 600 mg 50 mL 20 min 900 mg 50–100 mL 30 min 1200 mg 100 mL 40 min Administration of more than 1200 mg in a single 1-hour infusion is not recommended. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Dilution and Compatibility: Physical and biological compatibility studies monitored for 24 hours at room temperature have demonstrated no inactivation or incompatibility with the use of CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE Sterile Solution (clindamycin phosphate) in IV solutions containing sodium chloride, glucose, calcium or potassium, and solutions containing vitamin B complex in concentrations usually used clinically. No incompatibility has been demonstrated with the antibacterial drugs cephalothin, kanamycin, gentamicin, penicillin or carbenicillin. The following drugs are physically incompatible with clindamycin phosphate: ampicillin sodium, phenytoin sodium, barbiturates, aminophylline, calcium gluconate, and magnesium sulfate. The compatibility and duration of stability of drug admixtures will vary depending on concentration and other conditions. Physico-Chemical Stability of Diluted Solutions of CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE Room Temperature: 6, 9 and 12 mg/mL (equivalent to clindamycin base) in dextrose injection 5%, sodium chloride injection 0.9%, or Lactated Ringers Injection in glass bottles or Mini-Bag containers, demonstrated physical and chemical stability for at least 16 days at 25°C. Also, 18 mg/mL (equivalent to clindamycin base) in dextrose injection 5%, in Mini-Bag containers, demonstrated physical and chemical stability for at least 16 days at 25°C. Refrigeration: 6, 9 and 12 mg/mL (equivalent to clindamycin base) in dextrose injection 5%, sodium chloride injection 0.9%, or Lactated Ringers Injection in glass bottles or Mini-Bag containers, demonstrated physical and chemical stability for at least 32 days at 4°C. IMPORTANT: This chemical stability information in no way indicates that it would be acceptable practice to use this product well after the preparation time. Good professional practice suggests that compounded admixtures should be administered as soon after preparation as is feasible. Frozen: 6, 9 and 12 mg/mL (equivalent to clindamycin base) in dextrose injection 5%, sodium chloride injection 0.9%, or Lactated Ringers Injection in Mini-Bag containers demonstrated physical and chemical stability for at least eight weeks at -10°C. Frozen solutions should be thawed at room temperature and not refrozen. DIRECTIONS FOR DISPENSING Pharmacy Bulk Package — Not for Direct Infusion The Pharmacy Bulk Package is for use in a Pharmacy Admixture Service only under a laminar flow hood. Entry into the vial should be made with a small diameter sterile transfer set or other small diameter sterile dispensing device, and contents dispensed in aliquots using aseptic technique. Multiple entries with a needle and syringe are not recommended. AFTER ENTRY USE ENTIRE CONTENTS OF VIAL PROMPTLY. ANY UNUSED PORTION MUST BE DISCARDED WITHIN 24 HOURS AFTER INITIAL ENTRY. DIRECTIONS FOR USE CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE IV Solution in GALAXY Plastic Container Premixed CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE IV Solution is for intravenous administration using sterile equipment. Check for minute leaks prior to use by squeezing bag firmly. If leaks are found, discard solution as sterility may be impaired. Do not add supplementary medication. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Do not use unless solution is clear and seal is intact. Caution: Do not use plastic containers in series connections. Such use could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container is complete. Preparation for Administration : 1. Suspend container from eyelet support. 2. Remove protector from outlet port at bottom of container. 3. Attach administration set. Refer to complete directions accompanying set. Preparation of CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE in ADD-Vantage System For IV Use Only. CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE 300 mg, 600 mg and 900 mg may be reconstituted in 50 mL (for 300 mg and 600 mg) or 100 mL (for 900 mg) of dextrose injection 5% or sodium chloride injection 0.9% in the ADD-diluent container. Refer to separate instructions for ADD-Vantage System. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Before applying clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel, wash your face gently with a mild soap, rinse with warm water, and pat your skin dry. Apply a pea-sized amount of clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel to the face once daily. Avoid the eyes, mouth, mucous membranes, or areas of broken skin. Use of clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel beyond 12 weeks has not been evaluated. Concomitant topical acne therapy should be used with caution because a possible cumulative irritancy effect may occur, especially with the use of peeling, desquamating, or abrasive agents. Clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel is not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. ( 2 ) Not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1%/5% should be applied twice daily, morning and evening, or as directed by a physician, to affected areas after the skin is gently washed, rinsed with warm water and patted dry. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Clindamycin and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1%/5% should be applied twice daily, morning and evening, or as directed by a physician, to affected areas after the skin is gently washed, rinsed with warm water and patted dry. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION If diarrhea occurs during therapy, this antibiotic should be discontinued (see WARNING box ). Adults Parenteral (IM or IV Administration) Serious infections due to aerobic gram-positive cocci and the more susceptible anaerobes (NOT generally including Bacteroides fragilis , Peptococcus species and Clostridium species other than Clostridium perfringens ): 600–1200 mg/day in 2, 3 or 4 equal doses. Alternatively, drug may be administered in the form of a single rapid infusion of the first dose followed by continuous IV infusion as follows: Table 2: Serum Clindamycin Levels Maintained, Rapid Infusion Rate and Maintenance Infusion Rate To maintain serum clindamycin levels Rapid infusion rate Maintenance infusion rate Above 4 mcg/mL 10 mg/min for 30 min 0.75 mg/min Above 5 mcg/mL 15 mg/min for 30 min 1.00 mg/min Above 6 mcg/mL 20 mg/min for 30 min 1.25 mg/min Pediatric Patients 1 month of age to 16 years Parenteral (IM or IV) Administration 20 to 40 mg/kg/day in 3 or 4 equal doses. Pediatric Patients less than 1 month The recommended dosage is 15 to 20 mg/kg/day in 3 to 4 equal doses. Table 3: Dosing Regimens for Pediatric Patients with PMA less than or equal to 32 weeks, or greater than 32 weeks to less than or equal to 40 weeks PMA (weeks) Dose (mg/kg) Dosing Interval (hours) PMA: Post-Menstrual age Less than or equal to 32 5 8 Greater than or equal to 32 to less than or equal to 40 7 8 Dilution for IV use and IV Infusion Rates The concentration of clindamycin in diluent for infusion should not exceed 18 mg per mL. Dilution and Compatibility Physical and biological compatibility studies monitored for 24 hours at room temperature have demonstrated no inactivation or incompatibility with the use of CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE Sterile Solution (clindamycin phosphate) in IV solutions containing sodium chloride, glucose, calcium or potassium, and solutions containing vitamin B complex in concentrations usually used clinically. No incompatibility has been demonstrated with the antibiotics cephalothin, kanamycin, gentamicin, penicillin or carbenicillin. Physico-Chemical Stability of Diluted Solutions of CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE Room Temperature 6, 9 and 12 mg/mL (equivalent to clindamycin base) in dextrose injection 5%, sodium chloride injection 0.9%, or Lactated Ringers Injection in glass bottles or Mini-Bag containers, demonstrated physical and chemical stability for at least 16 days at 25°C. Refrigeration 6, 9 and 12 mg/mL (equivalent to clindamycin base) in dextrose injection 5%, sodium chloride injection 0.9%, or Lactated Ringers Injection in glass bottles or Mini-Bag containers, demonstrated physical and chemical stability for at least 32 days at 4°C. Frozen 6, 9 and 12 mg/mL (equivalent to clindamycin base) in dextrose injection 5%, sodium chloride injection 0.9%, or Lactated Ringers Injection in Mini-Bag containers demonstrated physical and chemical stability for at least eight weeks at -10°C. Preparation for Administration : Suspend container from eyelet support. Adults Parenteral (IM or IV Administration) Serious infections due to aerobic gram-positive cocci and the more susceptible anaerobes (NOT generally including Bacteroides fragilis, Peptococcus species and Clostridium species other than Clostridium perfringens): 600–1200 mg/day in 2, 3 or 4 equal doses. More severe infections, particularly those due to proven or suspected Bacteroides fragilis, Peptococcus species, or Clostridium species other than Clostridium perfringens: 1200–2700 mg/day in 2, 3 or 4 equal doses. Alternatively, drug may be administered in the form of a single rapid infusion of the first dose followed by continuous IV infusion as follows: Table 2: Serum Clindamycin Levels Maintained, Rapid Infusion Rate and Maintenance Infusion Rate Pediatric Patients 1 month of age to 16 years Parenteral (IM or IV) Administration 20 to 40 mg/kg/day in 3 or 4 equal doses. As an alternative to dosing on a body weight basis, pediatric patients may be dosed on the basis of square meters body surface: 350 mg/m2/day for serious infections and 450 mg/m2/day for more severe infections. Parenteral therapy may be changed to oral CLEOCIN PEDIATRIC® Flavored Granules (clindamycin palmitate hydrochloride) or CLEOCIN HCl® Capsules (clindamycin hydrochloride) when the condition warrants and at the discretion of the physician. Table 3: Dosing Regimens for Pediatric Patients with PMA less than or equal to 32 weeks, or greater than 32 weeks to less than or equal to 40 weeks PMA: Post-Menstrual age Dilution for IV use and IV Infusion Rates The concentration of clindamycin in diluent for infusion should not exceed 18 mg per mL. The usual infusion dilutions and rates are as follows: Administration of more than 1200 mg in a single 1-hour infusion is not recommended. Preparation for Administration: 1. Image2.jpg Image3.jpg Image4.jpg DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of Clindamycin phosphate topical solution USP, 1% twice daily to affected area. Keep container tightly closed. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of clindamycin phosphate gel USP 1% twice daily to affected area.
Warnings: WARNINGS Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may result in patient death. Use of the topical formulation of clindamycin results in absorption of the antibiotic from the skin surface. Diarrhea, bloody diarrhea, and colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis) have been reported with the use of topical and systemic clindamycin. Studies indicate a toxin(s) produced by clostridia is one primary cause of antibiotic-associated colitis. The colitis is usually characterized by severe persistent diarrhea and severe abdominal cramps and may be associated with the passage of blood and mucus. Endoscopic examination may reveal pseudomembranous colitis. Stool culture for Clostridium difficile and stool assay for C. difficile toxin may be helpful diagnostically. When significant diarrhea occurs, the drug should be discontinued. Large bowel endoscopy should be considered to establish a definitive diagnosis in cases of severe diarrhea. Antiperistaltic agents such as opiates and diphenoxylate with atropine may prolong and/or worsen the condition. Vancomycin has been found to be effective in the treatment of antibiotic-associated pseudomembranous colitis produced by Clostridium difficile . The usual adult dosage is 500 milligrams to 2 grams of vancomycin orally per day in three to four divided doses administered for 7 to 10 days. Cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind vancomycin in vitro . If both a resin and vancomycin are to be administered concurrently, it may be advisable to separate the time of administration of each drug. Diarrhea, colitis, and pseudomembranous colitis have been observed to begin up to several weeks following cessation of oral and parenteral therapy with clindamycin. WARNINGS See BOXED WARNING . Clostridioides difficile -Associated Diarrhea Clostridioides difficile -associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C. difficile . C. difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD. Hypertoxin producing strains of C. difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality, as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial drug use. Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents. If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibacterial drug use not directed against C. difficile may need to be discontinued. Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibacterial drug treatment of C. difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. Anaphylactic and Severe Hypersensitivity Reactions Anaphylactic shock and anaphylactic reactions have been reported ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) . Severe hypersensitivity reactions, including severe skin reactions such as toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), and Kounis syndrome, some with fatal outcome, have been reported ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) . In case of such an anaphylactic or severe hypersensitivity reaction, discontinue treatment permanently and institute appropriate therapy. A careful inquiry should be made concerning previous sensitivities to drugs and other allergens. Benzyl Alcohol Toxicity in Neonates ("Gasping Syndrome") This product contains benzyl alcohol as a preservative. The administration of intravenous solutions containing the preservative benzyl alcohol has been associated with the "gasping syndrome", and death in neonates. Symptoms include a striking onset of gasping respiration, hypotension, bradycardia, and cardiovascular collapse. Although the normal therapeutic dose of this product delivers amounts of benzyl alcohol that are substantially lower than those reported in association with the "gasping syndrome", the minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occur is not known and total daily benzyl alcohol exposure may be increased by concomitant medications. The risk of benzyl alcohol toxicity depends on the quantity administered and the liver and kidneys' capacity to detoxify the chemical. Premature and low birth weight infants may be more likely to develop toxicity. Nephrotoxicity Clindamycin is potentially nephrotoxic and cases with acute kidney injury have been reported. Consider monitoring of renal function particularly in patients with pre-existing renal dysfunction or those taking concomitant nephrotoxic drugs. In case of acute kidney injury, discontinue CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE when no other etiology is identified. Usage in Meningitis Since clindamycin does not diffuse adequately into the cerebrospinal fluid, the drug should not be used in the treatment of meningitis. STUDIES INDICATE A TOXIN(S) PRODUCED BY CLOSTRIDIA IS ONE PRIMARY CAUSE OF ANTIBIOTIC- ASSOCIATED COLITIS. Mild cases of pseudomembranous colitis usually respond to drug discontinuation alone. In moderate to severe cases, consideration should be given to management with fluids and electrolytes, protein supplementation and treatment with an antibacterial drug clinically effective against C. difficile colitis. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use. If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C. Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibiotic treatment of C. Severe hypersensitivity reactions, including severe skin reactions such as toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), and Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), some with fatal outcome, have been reported ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) . WARNINGS See BOXED WARNING. Clostridioides difficile-Associated Diarrhea Clostridioides difficile-associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. difficile. difficile, and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. Anaphylactic and Severe Hypersensitivity Reactions Anaphylactic shock and anaphylactic reactions have been reported (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Severe hypersensitivity reactions, including severe skin reactions such as toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), and Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), some with fatal outcome, have been reported (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). U sage in Meningitis Since clindamycin does not diffuse adequately into the cerebrospinal fluid, the drug should not be used in the treatment of meningitis. difficile toxin may be helpful diagnostically .
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Clindamycin phosphate topical lotion is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to preparations containing clindamycin or lincomycin, a history of regional enteritis or ulcerative colitis, or a history of antibiotic-associated colitis. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS History of hypersensitivity to clindamycin or lincomycin. ( 4.1 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity XACIATO is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to clindamycin or lincomycin. [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . CONTRAINDICATIONS This drug is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to preparations containing clindamycin or lincomycin. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel is contraindicated in: Patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to clindamycin, benzoyl peroxide, any components of the formulation, or lincomycin. ( 4.1 ) Patients with a history of regional enteritis, ulcerative colitis, or antibiotic-associated colitis. ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel is contraindicated in those individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to clindamycin, benzoyl peroxide, any components of the formulation, or lincomycin. Anaphylaxis, as well as allergic reactions leading to hospitalization, has been reported in postmarketing use with clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel [see Postmarketing Experience (6.2) ]. 4.2 Colitis/Enteritis Clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel is contraindicated in patients with a history of regional enteritis, ulcerative colitis, or antibiotic-associated colitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. CONTRAINDICATIONS Clindamycin Phosphate and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1%/5% is contraindicated in those individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components or to lincomycin. It is also contraindicated in those having a history of regional enteritis, ulcerative colitis, or antibiotic-associated colitis. CONTRAINDICATIONS Clindamycin and Benzoyl Peroxide Gel, 1%/5% is contraindicated in those individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components or to lincomycin. CONTRAINDICATIONS Clindamycin phosphate topical solution USP, 1% is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to preparations containing clindamycin or lincomycin, a history of regional enteritis or ulcerative colitis, or a history of antibiotic-associated colitis. CONTRAINDICATIONS Clindamycin phosphate gel is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to preparations containing clindamycin or lincomycin, a history of regional enteritis or ulcerative colitis, or a history of antibiotic-associated colitis.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents. Therefore, it should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Systemic clindamycin has neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents. Clindamycin is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A4, and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5, to the major metabolite clindamycin sulfoxide and minor metabolite N-desmethylclindamycin. Therefore, inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 may increase plasma concentrations of clindamycin and inducers of these isoenzymes may reduce plasma concentrations of clindamycin. In the presence of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, monitor for adverse reactions. In the presence of strong CYP3A4 inducers such as rifampicin, monitor for loss of effectiveness. In vitro studies indicate that clindamycin does not inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2E1 or CYP2D6 and only moderately inhibits CYP3A4. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Avoid using clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel in combination with topical or oral erythromycin-containing products because of its clindamycin component. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Erythromycin Clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel should not be used in combination with topical or oral erythromycin-containing products due to its clindamycin component. In vitro studies have shown antagonism between erythromycin and clindamycin. The clinical significance of this in vitro antagonism is not known. 7.2 Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents. Therefore, clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents.

=== DIAZEPAM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Diazepam tablets are indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety. Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic. In acute alcohol withdrawal, diazepam tablets may be useful in the symptomatic relief of acute agitation, tremor, impending or acute delirium tremens and hallucinosis. Diazepam tablets are a useful adjunct for the relief of skeletal muscle spasm due to reflex spasm to local pathology (such as inflammation of the muscles or joints, or secondary to trauma), spasticity caused by upper motor neuron disorders (such as cerebral palsy and paraplegia), athetosis, and stiff-man syndrome. Oral diazepam tablets may be used adjunctively in convulsive disorders, although it has not proved useful as the sole therapy. The effectiveness of diazepam tablets in long-term use, that is, more than 4 months, has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies. The physician should periodically reassess the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. INDICATIONS Diazepam tablets are indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety. Diazepam is a useful adjunct for the relief of skeletal muscle spasm due to reflex spasm to local pathology (such as inflammation of the muscles or joints, or secondary to trauma), spasticity caused by upper motor neuron disorders (such as cerebral palsy and paraplegia), athetosis, and stiff-man syndrome. Oral diazepam may be used adjunctively in convulsive disorders, although it has not proved useful as the sole therapy. The effectiveness of diazepam in long-term use, that is, more than 4 months, has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies. INDICATIONS & USAGE Diazepam is indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety. In acute alcohol withdrawal, diazepam may be useful in the symptomatic relief of acute agitation, tremor, impending or acute delirium tremens and hallucinosis. As an adjunct prior to endoscopic procedures if apprehension, anxiety or acute stress reactions are present, and to diminish the patient's recall of the procedures. (See WARNINGS.) Diazepam is a useful adjunct for the relief of skeletal muscle spasm due to reflex spasm to local pathology (such as inflammation of the muscles or joints, or secondary to trauma); spasticity caused by upper motor neuron disorders (such as cerebral palsy and paraplegia); athetosis; stiff-man syndrome; and tetanus. Diazepam injection is a useful adjunct in status epilepticus. Diazepam is a useful premedication (the intramuscular route is preferred) for relief of anxiety and tension in patients who are to undergo surgical procedures. Intravenously, prior to cardioversion for the relief of anxiety and tension and to diminish the patient's recall of the procedure. INDICATIONS Diazepam is indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety. Diazepam tablets are indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Diazepam is indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety. As an adjunct prior to endoscopic procedures if apprehension, anxiety or acute stress reactions are present, and to diminish the patient's recall of the procedures (See WARNINGS ). Diazepam is a useful adjunct for the relief of skeletal muscle spasm due to reflex spasm to local pathology (such as inflammation of the muscles or joints, or secondary to trauma); spasticity caused by upper motor neuron disorders (such as cerebral palsy and paraplegia); athetosis; stiff-man syndrome; and tetanus. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE VALTOCO ® is indicated for the acute treatment of intermittent, stereotypic episodes of frequent seizure activity (i.e., seizure clusters, acute repetitive seizures) that are distinct from a patient's usual seizure pattern in patients with epilepsy 2 years of age and older. VALTOCO is a benzodiazepine indicated for the acute treatment of intermittent, stereotypic episodes of frequent seizure activity (i.e., seizure clusters, acute repetitive seizures) that are distinct from a patient's usual seizure pattern in patients with epilepsy 2 years of age and older. ( 1 )
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be individualized for maximum beneficial effect. While the usual daily dosages given below will meet the needs of most patients, there will be some who may require higher doses. In such cases dosage should be increased cautiously to avoid adverse effects. ADULTS: USUAL DAILY DOSE: Management of Anxiety Disorders and Relief of Symptoms of Anxiety. Depending upon severity of symptoms—2 mg to 10 mg, 2 to 4 times daily Symptomatic Relief in Acute Alcohol Withdrawal. 10 mg, 3 or 4 times during the first 24 hours, reducing to 5 mg, 3 or 4 times daily as needed. Adjunctively for Relief of Skeletal Muscle Spasm. 2 mg to 10 mg, 3 or 4 times daily Adjunctively in Convulsive Disorders. 2 mg to 10 mg, 2 to 4 times daily Geriatric Patients, or in the presence of debilitating disease. 2 mg to 2.5 mg, 1 or 2 times daily initially; increase gradually as needed and tolerated. PEDIATRIC PATIENTS: Because of varied responses to CNS-acting drugs, initiate therapy with lowest dose and increase as required. Not for use in pediatric patients under 6 months. 1 mg to 2.5 mg, 3 or 4 times daily initially; increase gradually as needed and tolerated. Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Diazepam Tablets To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue diazepam tablets or reduce the dosage. If a patient develops withdrawal reactions, consider pausing the taper or increasing the dosage to the previous tapered dosage level. Subsequently decrease the dosage more slowly (see WARNINGS: Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ). In such cases, dosage should be increased cautiously to avoid adverse effects. Depending upon severity of symptoms – 2 mg to 10 mg, 2 to 4 times daily Symptomatic Relief in Acute Alcohol Withdrawal. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be individualized for maximum beneficial effect. The usual recommended dose in older children and adults ranges from 2 mg to 20 mg intramuscular or intravenous, depending on the indication and its severity. In some conditions, e.g., tetanus, larger doses may be required. (See dosage for specific indications.) In acute conditions the injection may be repeated within one hour although an interval of 3 to 4 hours is usually satisfactory. Lower doses (usually 2 mg to 5 mg) and slow increase in dosage should be used for elderly or debilitated patients and when other sedative drugs are administered. (See WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS. ) For dosage in infants above the age of 30 days and children, see the specific indications below. When intravenous use is indicated, facilities for respiratory assistance should be readily available. Intramuscular: Diazepam injection should be injected deeply into the muscle. Intravenous Use: For the treatment of status epilepticus in children, the solution should be injected slowly, taking one minute for administration (See WARNINGS , particularly for use in children). For other indications, the solution should be injected slowly taking at least one minute for each 5 mg (1 mL) given. Do not use small veins, such as those on the dorsum of the hand or wrist. Extreme care should be taken to avoid intra-arterial administration or extravasation. Do not mix or dilute diazepam with other solutions or drugs in a syringe or an infusion container. If it is not feasible to administer diazepam directly intravenous, it may be injected slowly through the infusion tubing as close as possible to the vein insertion. INDICATION USUAL ADULT DOSAGE DOSAGE RANGE IN CHILDREN (Intravenous administration should be made slowly) Moderate Anxiety Disorders and Symptoms of Anxiety 2 mg to 5 mg, intramuscular or intravenous. Repeat in 3 to 4 hours, if necessary. Severe Anxiety Disorders and Symptoms of Anxiety 5 mg to 10 mg, intramuscular or intravenous. Acute Alcohol Withdrawal: 10 mg, intramuscular or intravenous initially, then 5 As an aid in symptomatic relief of acute agitation, tremor, impending or acute delirium tremens, and hallucinosis mg to 10 mg in 3 to 4 hours, if necessary. Endoscopic Procedures: Adjunctively, if apprehension, anxiety or acute stress reaction are present prior to endoscopic procedures. Dosage of narcotics should be reduced by at least a third and in some cases may be omitted. See PRECAUTIONS for peroral procedures. Titrate intravenous dosage to desired sedative response, such as slurring of speech, with slow administration immediately prior to the procedure. Generally 10 mg or less is adequate, but up to 20 mg intravenous may be given, particularly when concomitant narcotics are omitted. If intravenous cannot be used, 5 mg to 10 mg intramuscular approximately 30 minutes prior to the procedure. Muscle Spasm Associated with local pathology, cerebral palsy, athetosis, stiff-man syndrome, or tetanus. 5 mg to 10 mg, intramuscular or intravenous initially, then 5 mg to 10 mg in 3 to 4 hours, if necessary. For tetanus, larger doses may be required. For tetanus in infants over 30 days of age, 1 mg to 2 mg intramuscular or intravenous, slowly, repeated every 3 to 4 hours as necessary. In children 5 years or older, 5 mg to 10 mg repeated every 3 to 4 hours may be required to control tetanus spasms. Respiratory assistance should be available. Status Epilepticus: In the convulsing patient, the intravenous route is by far preferred. This injection should be administered slowly. However, if intravenous administration is impossible, the intramuscular route may be used. 5 mg to 10 mg initially (intravenous preferred). This injection may be repeated if necessary at 10 to 15 minute intervals up to a maximum dose of 30 mg. If necessary, therapy with diazepam may be repeated in 2 to 4 hours; however, residual active metabolites may persist, and readministration should be made with this consideration. Extreme caution must be exercised with individuals with chronic lung disease or unstable cardiovascular status. Children 3 months up to 17 years of age with status epilepticus: First dose: 0.2 mg/kg (maximum 8 mg) by slow intravenous push (one minute in duration). Second dose (if necessary; 5 minutes after the first dose): 0.1 mg/kg (maximum 4 mg) by slow intravenous push (one minute in duration). EEG monitoring of the seizure may be helpful. Preoperative Medication To relieve anxiety and tension. (If atropine, scopolamine or other premedications are desired, they must be administered in separate syringes.) 10 mg, intramuscular (preferred route), before surgery. Cardioversion To relieve anxiety and tension and to reduce recall of procedure. 5 mg to 15 mg, intravenous, within 5 to 10 minutes prior to the procedure. Once the acute symptomatology has been properly controlled with diazepam injection, the patient may be placed on oral therapy with diazepam if further treatment is required. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Adults: Usual Daily Dosage: Management of Anxiety Disorders and Relief of Symptoms of Anxiety. Depending upon severity of symptoms - 2 mg to 10 mg, 2 to 4 times daily. Symptomatic Relief in Acute Alcohol Withdrawal. 2 mg to 10 mg, 3 or 4 times daily. Adjunctively in Convulsive Disorders. 2 mg to 10 mg, 2 to 4 times daily. Geriatric Patients, or in the presence of debilitating disease. Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Diazepam To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue diazepam or reduce the dosage. Dosage should be individualized for maximum beneficial effect. Subsequently decrease the dosage more slowly (see WARNINGS: DEPENDENCE AND WITHDRAWAL REACTIONS and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: DEPENDENCE). Lower doses (usually 2 mg to 5 mg) and slow increase in dosage should be used for elderly or debilitated patients and when other sedative drugs are administered.(See WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). For dosage in infants above the age of 30 days and children, see the specific indications below. Do not mix or dilute diazepam with other solutions or drugs in syringe or infusion container. USUAL ADULT DOSAGE DOSAGE RANGE IN CHILDREN (Intravenous administration should be made slowly) Moderate Anxiety Disorders and Symptoms of Anxiety 2 mg to 5 mg, intramuscular or intravenous . Severe Anxiety Disorders and Symptoms of Anxiety 5 mg to 10 mg, intramuscular or intravenous . Acute Alcohol Withdrawal: As an aid in symptomatic relief of acute agitation, tremor, impending or acute delirium tremens, and hallucinosis. 10 mg, intramuscular or intravenous initially, then 5 mg to 10 mg in 3 to 4 hours, if necessary. If intravenous cannot be used, 5 mg to10 mg intramuscular approximately 30 minutes prior to the procedure. Status Epilepticus and Severe Recurrent Convulsive Seizures: In the convulsing patient, the intravenous route is by far preferred. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer VALTOCO by the nasal route only. ( 2.3 ) Dosage is dependent on the patient's age and weight. ( 2.2 ) Initial Dose: VALTOCO 5 mg and 10 mg doses are administered as a single spray intranasally into one nostril. Administration of 15 mg and 20 mg doses requires two nasal spray devices, one spray into each nostril. ( 2.2 ) Second Dose: A second dose, when required, may be administered at least 4 hours after the initial dose. If administered, use a new blister pack. ( 2.2 ) Maximum Dosage and Treatment Frequency: Do not use more than 2 doses to treat a single episode. It is recommended that VALTOCO be used to treat no more than one episode every five days and no more than five episodes per month. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Instructions Prior to Dosing Prior to treatment, healthcare professionals should instruct the individual administering VALTOCO on how to identify seizure clusters and use the product appropriately [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) and Patient Counseling Information (17) ]. 2.2 Dosing Information The recommended dose of VALTOCO nasal spray is 0.2 mg/kg to 0.5 mg/kg, depending on the patient's age and weight. See Table 1 and Table 2 for specific recommendations. Table 1: Recommended Dose Based on Age Age (Years) Recommended Dose 2 through 5 0.5 mg/kg 6 through 11 0.3 mg/kg 12 and older 0.2 mg/kg Table 2: Recommended Dosage and Administration for Adults and Pediatric Patients 2 Years of Age and Older Dose Based on Age and Weight Administration 2 to 5 Years of Age (0.5 mg/kg) 6 to 11 Years of Age (0.3 mg/kg) 12 Years of Age and Older (0.2 mg/kg) Dose (mg) Number of Nasal Spray Devices Number of Sprays Weight (kg) 6 to 11 10 to 18 14 to 27 5 One 5 mg device One spray in one nostril 12 to 22 19 to 37 28 to 50 10 One 10 mg device One spray in one nostril 23 to 33 38 to 55 51 to 75 15 Two 7.5 mg devices One spray in each nostril 56 to 74 76 and up 20 Two 10 mg devices One spray in each nostril Second Dose (if needed): A second dose, when required, may be administered after at least 4 hours after the initial dose. If the second dose is to be administered, use a new blister pack of VALTOCO. Maximum Dosage and Treatment Frequency : Do not use more than 2 doses of VALTOCO to treat a single episode. Do not use VALTOCO to treat more than one episode every five days or more than five episodes per month. 2.3 Important Administration Instructions VALTOCO is for intranasal use only. No device assembly is required. VALTOCO nasal spray delivers its entire contents upon activation. Do not prime or attempt to use for more than one administration per device. Patients and caregivers should be counseled to read carefully the "Instructions for Use" for complete directions on how to properly administer VALTOCO. Adults : Usual Daily Dose: Management of Anxiety Disorders and Relief of Symptoms of Anxiety. 10 mg, 3 or 4 times during the first 24 hours, reducing to 5 mg, 3 or 4 times daily as needed Adjunctively for Relief of Skeletal Muscle Spasm. 2 mg to 2.5 mg, 1 or 2 times daily initially; increase gradually as needed and tolerated Pediatric Patients: Because of varied responses to CNS-acting drugs, initiate therapy with lowest dose and increase as required. 1 mg to 2.5 mg, 3 or 4 times daily initially; increase gradually as needed and tolerated Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Diazepam To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue diazepam or reduce the dosage. Proper Use of Diazepam Intensol TM Oral Solution (Concentrate) Diazepam Intensol TM Oral Solution is a concentrated oral solution as compared to standard oral liquid medications. It is recommended that Diazepam Intensol TM Oral Solution be mixed with liquid or semi-solid food such as water, juices, soda or soda-like beverages, applesauce and puddings. Use only the calibrated oral syringe provided with this product. Draw into the oral syringe the amount prescribed for a single dose. Then empty the oral syringe contents into a liquid or semi-solid food. Stir the liquid or food gently for a few seconds. The Diazepam Intensol TM Oral Solution formulation blends quickly and completely. The entire amount of the mixture, of drug and liquid or drug and food, should be consumed immediately. Do not store for future use.
Warnings: WARNINGS Risks from Concomitant Use with Opioids Concomitant use of benzodiazepiones, including diazepam tablets, and opioids may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. Because of these risks, reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Observational studies have demonstrated that concomitant use of opioid analgesics and benzodiazepines increases the risk of drug-related mortality compared to use of opioids alone. If a decision is made to prescribe diazepam tablets concomitantly with opioids, prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use, and follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. In patients already receiving an opioid analgesic, prescribe a lower initial dose of diazepam tablets than indicated in the absence of an opioid and titrate based on clinical response. If an opioid is initiated in a patient already taking diazepam tablets, prescribe a lower initial dose of the opioid and titrate based upon clinical response. Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when diazepam tablets are used with opioids. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use with the opioid have been determined (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Abuse, Misuse, and Addiction The use of benzodiazepines, including diazepam tablets, exposes users to the risks of abuse, misuse, and addiction, which can lead to overdose or death. Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines often (but not always) involve the use of doses greater than the maximum recommended dosage and commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes, including respiratory depression, overdose, or death (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Abuse ). Before prescribing diazepam tablets and throughout treatment, assess each patient’s risk for abuse, misuse, and addiction (e.g., using a standardized screening tool). Use of diazepam tablets, particularly in patients at elevated risk, necessitates counseling about the risks and proper use of diazepam tablets along with monitoring for signs and symptoms of abuse, misuse, and addiction. Prescribe the lowest effective dosage; avoid or minimize concomitant use of CNS depressants and other substances associated with abuse, misuse, and addiction (e.g., opioid analgesics, stimulants); and advise patients on the proper disposal of unused drug. If a substance use disorder is suspected, evaluate the patient and institute (or refer them for) early treatment, as appropriate. Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue diazepam tablets or reduce the dosage (a patient-specific plan should be used to taper the dose) (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Diazepam Tablets ). Patients at an increased risk of withdrawal adverse reactions after benzodiazepine discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction include those who take higher dosages, and those who have had longer durations of use. Acute Withdrawal Reactions The continued use of benzodiazepines, including diazepam tablets, may lead to clinically significant physical dependence. Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of diazepam tablets after continued use, or administration of flumazenil (a benzodiazepine antagonist) may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening (e.g., seizures) (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ). Protracted Withdrawal Syndrome In some cases, benzodiazepine users have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with withdrawal symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ). Diazepam tablets are not recommended in the treatment of psychotic patients and should not be employed instead of appropriate treatment. Since diazepam tablets have a central nervous system depressant effect, patients should be advised against the simultaneous ingestion of alcohol and other CNS-depressant drugs during diazepam tablets therapy. As with other agents that have anticonvulsant activity, when diazepam tablets are used as an adjunct in treating convulsive disorders, the possibility of an increase in the frequency and/or severity of grand mal seizures may require an increase in the dosage of standard anticonvulsant medication. Abrupt withdrawal of diazepam tablets in such cases may also be associated with a temporary increase in the frequency and/or severity of seizures. Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome Use of diazepam tablets late in pregnancy can result in sedation (respiratory depression, lethargy, hypotonia) and/or withdrawal symptoms (hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties) in the neonate (see PRECAUTIONS: Pregnancy ). Monitor neonates exposed to diazepam during pregnancy or labor for signs of sedation and monitor neonates exposed to diazepam during pregnancy for signs of withdrawal; manage these neonates accordingly. WARNINGS Risks from Concomitant Use with Opioids Concomitant use of benzodiazepines, including diazepam, and opioids may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. If an opioid is initiated in a patient already taking diazepam, prescribe a lower initial dose of the opioid and titrate based upon clinical response. Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when diazepam is used with opioids. Use of diazepam, particularly in patients at elevated risk, necessitates counseling about the risks and proper use of diazepam tablets along with monitoring for signs and symptoms of abuse, misuse, and addiction. Acute Withdrawal Reactions The continued use of benzodiazepines, including diazepam, may lead to clinically significant physical dependence. Diazepam is not recommended in the treatment of psychotic patients and should not be employed instead of appropriate treatment. Since diazepam has a central nervous system depressant effect, patients should be advised against the simultaneous ingestion of alcohol and other CNS-depressant drugs during diazepam therapy. As with other agents that have anticonvulsant activity, when diazepam is used as an adjunct in treating convulsive disorders, the possibility of an increase in the frequency and/or severity of grand mal seizures may require an increase in the dosage of standard anticonvulsant medication. Abrupt withdrawal of diazepam in such cases may also be associated with a temporary increase in the frequency and/or severity of seizures. Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome Use of diazepam late in pregnancy can result in sedation (respiratory depression, lethargy, hypotonia) and/or withdrawal symptoms (hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties) in the neonate (see PRECAUTIONS: Pregnancy ). Because of these risks, reserve concomitant prescribing of benzodiazepines and opioids in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If a decision is made to prescribe diazepam concomitantly with opioids, prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use, and follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when diazepam is used with opioids (see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ). Abuse, Misuse, and Addiction The use of benzodiazepines, including diazepam, exposes users to the risks of abuse, misuse, and addiction, which can lead to overdose or death. Before prescribing diazepam and throughout treatment, assess each patient’s risk for abuse, misuse, and addiction. Use of diazepam, particularly in patients at elevated risk, necessitates counseling about the risks and proper use of diazepam along with monitoring for signs and symptoms of abuse, misuse, and addiction. Do not exceed the recommended dosing frequency; avoid or minimize concomitant use of CNS depressants and other substances associated with abuse, misuse, and addiction (e.g., opioid analgesics, stimulants); and advise patients on the proper disposal of unused drug. Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions After Use of Diazepam More Frequently Than Recommended For patients using diazepam more frequently than recommended, to reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue diazepam (a patient-specific plan should be used to taper the dose). Acute Withdrawal Reactions The continued use of benzodiazepines, including diazepam may lead to clinically significant physical dependence. Although diazepam is indicated only for intermittent use (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ), if used more frequently than recommended, abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of diazepam, or administration of flumazenil (a benzodiazepine antagonist) may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening (e.g., seizures) (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE , Dependence). Protracted Withdrawal Syndrome In some cases, benzodiazepine users have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with withdrawal symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ). When used intravenously, the following procedures should be undertaken to reduce the possibility of venous thrombosis, phlebitis, local irritation, swelling, and, rarely, vascular impairment; the solution should be injected slowly, taking at least one minute for each 5 mg (1 mL) given except for treatment of status epilepticus in children (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ); do not use small veins, such as those on the dorsum of the hand or wrist; extreme care should be taken to avoid intra-arterial administration or extravasation. Do not mix or dilute diazepam injection with other solutions or drugs in syringe or infusion container. If it is not feasible to administer diazepam directly intravenous, it may be injected slowly through the infusion tubing as close as possible to the vein insertion. Extreme care must be used in administering diazepam injection, particularly by the intravenous route, to the elderly, to very ill patients, and to those with limited pulmonary reserve because of the possibility that apnea and/or cardiac arrest may occur. Concomitant use of barbiturates, alcohol or other central nervous system depressants increases depression with increased risk of apnea. Resuscitative equipment including that necessary to support respiration should be readily available. When diazepam is used with a narcotic analgesic, the dosage of the narcotic should be reduced by at least one-third and administered in small increments. In some cases the use of a narcotic may not be necessary. Diazepam injection should not be administered to patients in shock, coma, or in acute alcoholic intoxication with depression of vital signs. As is true of most CNS-acting drugs, patients receiving diazepam should be cautioned against engaging in hazardous occupations requiring complete mental alertness, such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle. Tonic status epilepticus has been precipitated in patients treated with intravenous diazepam for petit mal status or petit mal variant status. Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome Use of Diazepam injection late in pregnancy can result in sedation (respiratory depression, lethargy, hypotonia) and/or withdrawal symptoms (hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties) in the neonate (see PRECAUTIONS: Pregnancy). Monitor neonates exposed to Diazepam injection during pregnancy or labor for signs of sedation and monitor neonates exposed to Diazepam injection during pregnancy for signs of withdrawal; manage these neonates accordingly Pediatric Use: Efficacy and safety of parenteral diazepam has not been established in the neonate (30 days or less of age). Prolonged central nervous system depression has been observed in neonates, apparently due to inability to biotransform diazepam into inactive metabolites. In pediatric use for the treatment of status epilepticus, in order to obtain maximal clinical effect with the minimum amount of drug and thus to reduce the risk of hazardous side effects, such as apnea or prolonged periods of somnolence, it is recommended that the drug be given as a slow intravenous push over 1 minute (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). The safety and tolerability of the recommended dosage regimen is supported by a randomized, double-blind study that included 162 pediatric patients ages 3 months to 17 years who received intravenous diazepam for the treatment of status epilepticus. In this study, 16% of pediatric patients who received diazepam experienced severe or life-threatening respiratory depression. Benzyl alcohol has been reported to be associated with a fatal gasping syndrome in premature infants. In patients already receiving an opioid analgesic, prescribe a lower initial dose of diazepam than indicated in the absence of an opioid and titrate based on clinical response. Before prescribing diazepam and throughout treatment, assess each patient’s risk for abuse, misuse, and addiction (e.g., using a standardized screening tool). Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue diazepam or reduce the dosage (a patient-specific plan should be used to taper the dose) (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of diazepam ). Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of diazepam after continued use, or administration of flumazenil (a benzodiazepine antagonist) may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening (e.g., seizures) (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ). Risks from Concomitant Use with Opioids Concomitant use of benzodiazepiones, including diazepam tablets, and opioids may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use with the opioid have been determined (see PRECAUTIONS: DRUG INTERACTIONS). Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines often (but not always) involve the use of doses greater than the maximum recommended dosage and commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes, including respiratory depression, overdose, or death (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: ABUSE). Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue diazepam tablets or reduce the dosage (a patient-specific plan should be used to taper the dose) (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: DISCONTINUATION OR DOSAGE REDUCTION OF DIAZEPAM TABLETS). Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of diazepam tablets after continued use, or administration of flumazenil (a benzodiazepine antagonist) may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening (e.g., seizures) (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: DEPENDENCE). Protracted Withdrawal Syndrome In some cases, benzodiazepine users have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with withdrawal symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: DEPENDENCE). Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome Use of diazepam tablets late in pregnancy can result in sedation (respiratory depression, lethargy, hypotonia) and/or withdrawal symptoms (hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties) in the neonate (see PRECAUTIONS: PREGNANCY). Although diazepam is indicated only for intermittent use (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ), if used more frequently than recommended, abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of diazepam, or administration of flumazenil (a benzodiazepine antagonist) may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening (e.g., seizures) (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE, Dependence ). Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome Use of Diazepam injection late in pregnancy can result in sedation (respiratory depression, lethargy, hypotonia) and/or withdrawal symptoms (hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties) in the neonate (see PRECAUTIONS: Pregnancy ). Because of these risks, reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome Use of diazepam late in pregnancy can result in sedation (respiratory depression, lethargy, hypotonia) and/or withdrawal symptoms (hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties) in the neonate (see PRECAUTIONS: Pregnancy ) .
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Diazepam tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to diazepam and, because of lack of sufficient clinical experience, in pediatric patients under 6 months of age. Diazepam tablets are also contraindicated in patients with myasthenia gravis, severe respiratory insufficiency, severe hepatic insufficiency, and sleep apnea syndrome. They may be used in patients with open-angle glaucoma who are receiving appropriate therapy, but is contraindicated in acute narrow-angle glaucoma. They may be used in patients with open-angle glaucoma who are receiving appropriate therapy, but are contraindicated in acute narrow-angle glaucoma. CONTRAINDICATIONS Diazepam is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to this drug; acute narrow angle glaucoma; and open angle glaucoma unless patients are receiving appropriate therapy. CONTRAINDICATIONS Diazepam is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to this drug and, because of lack of sufficient clinical experience, in pediatric patients under 6 months of age. Diazepam is also contraindicated in patients with myasthenia gravis, severe respiratory insufficiency, severe hepatic insufficiency, and sleep apnea syndrome. It may be used in patients with open-angle glaucoma who are receiving appropriate therapy, but is contraindicated in acute narrow-angle glaucoma. Diazepam tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to diazepam and, because of lack of sufficient clinical experience, in pediatric patients under 6 months of age. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS VALTOCO nasal spray is contraindicated in patients with: Known hypersensitivity to diazepam Acute narrow angle glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] Hypersensitivity to diazepam. ( 4 ) Acute narrow-angle glaucoma. ( 4 )
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Opioids The concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids increases the risk of respiratory depression because of actions at different receptor sites in the CNS that control respiration. Benzodiazepines interact at GABA A sites and opioids interact primarily at mu receptors. When benzodiazepines and opioids are combined, the potential for benzodiazepines to significantly worsen opioid-related respiratory depression exists. Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Centrally Acting Agents If diazepam tablets are to be combined with other centrally acting agents, careful consideration should be given to the pharmacology of the agents employed particularly with compounds that may potentiate or be potentiated by the action of diazepam tablets, such as phenothiazines, antipsychotics, anxiolytics/sedatives, hypnotics, anticonvulsants, narcotic analgesics, anesthetics, sedative antihistamines, narcotics, barbiturates, MAO inhibitors and other antidepressants. Alcohol Concomitant use with alcohol is not recommended due to enhancement of the sedative effect. Antacids Diazepam peak concentrations are 30% lower when antacids are administered concurrently. However, there is no effect on the extent of absorption. The lower peak concentrations appear due to a slower rate of absorption, with the time required to achieve peak concentrations on average 20-25 minutes greater in the presence of antacids. However, this difference was not statistically significant. Compounds Which Inhibit Certain Hepatic Enzymes There is a potentially relevant interaction between diazepam and compounds which inhibit certain hepatic enzymes (particularly cytochrome P450 3A and 2C19). Data indicate that these compounds influence the pharmacokinetics of diazepam and may lead to increased and prolonged sedation. At present, this reaction is known to occur with cimetidine, ketoconazole, fluvoxamine, fluoxetine, and omeprazole. Phenytoin There have also been reports that the metabolic elimination of phenytoin is decreased by diazepam. DRUG INTERACTIONS The concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids increases the risk of respiratory depression because of actions at different receptor sites in the CNS that control respiration. Benzodiazepines interact at GABAA sites and opioids interact primarily at mµ receptors. If diazepam is to be combined with other psychotropic agents or anticonvulsant drugs, careful consideration should be given to the pharmacology of the agents to be employed, particularly with known compounds which may potentiate the action of diazepam, such as phenothiazines, narcotics, barbiturates, MAO inhibitors, and other antidepressants. In highly anxious patients with evidence of accompanying depression, particularly those who may have suicidal tendencies, protective measures may be necessary. Diazepam injection has produced hypotension or muscular weakness in some patients particularly when used with narcotics, barbiturates, or alcohol. The clearance of diazepam and certain other benzodiazepines can be delayed in association with cimetidine administration. The clinical significance of this is unclear. Pregnancy: Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to AEDs, such as Diazepam injection, during pregnancy. Healthcare providers are encouraged to recommend that pregnant patient taking Diazepam injection enroll in the NAAED Pregnancy Registry by calling 1-888- 233-2334 or online at http://www.aedpregnancyregistry.org/. Risk Summary Neonates born to mothers using benzodiazepines late in pregnancy have been reported to experience symptoms of sedation and/or neonatal withdrawal (see WARNINGS: Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome, and PRECAUTIONS: Clinical Considerations). Available data from published observational studies of pregnant women exposed to benzodiazepines do not report a clear association with benzodiazepines and major birth defects (see Data). The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown. All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect, loss, or other adverse outcomes. In the U.S. general population, the estimated risk of major birth defects and of miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2% to 4% and 15% to 20%, respectively. Clinical Considerations Fetal/Neonatal Adverse Reactions Benzodiazepines cross the placenta and may produce respiratory depression, hypotonia, and sedation in neonates. Monitor neonates exposed to Diazepam injection during pregnancy or labor for signs of sedation, respiratory depression, hypotonia, and feeding problems Monitor neonates exposed to Diazepam injection during pregnancy for signs of withdrawal. Manage these neonates accordingly (see WARNINGS: Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome). Data Human Data Published data from observational studies on the use of benzodiazepines during pregnancy do not report a clear association with benzodiazepines and major birth defects. Although early studies reported an increased risk of congenital malformations with diazepam and chlordiazepoxide, there was no consistent pattern noted. In addition, the majority of more recent case-control and cohort studies of benzodiazepine use during pregnancy, which were adjusted for confounding exposures to alcohol, tobacco and other medications, have not confirmed these findings. Animal Data Diazepam has been shown to produce increased incidences of fetal malformations in mice and hamsters when given orally at single doses of 100 mg/kg or greater (approximately 20 times the maximum recommended adult dose [0.4 mg/kg/day] or greater on a mg/m2 basis). Cleft palate and exencephaly are the most common and consistently reported malformations produced in these species by administration of high, maternally-toxic doses of diazepam during organogenesis. In published animal studies, administration of benzodiazepines or other drugs that enhance GABAergic inhibition to neonatal rats has been reported to result in widespread apoptotic neurodegeneration in the developing brain at plasma concentrations relevant for seizure control in humans. The window of vulnerability to these changes in rats (postnatal days 0-14) includes a period of brain development that takes place during the third trimester of pregnancy in humans. Nursing Mothers: Risk Summary Diazepam is present in breastmilk. There are reports of sedation, poor feeding and poor weight gain in infants exposed to benzodiazepines through breast milk. There are no data on the effects of diazepam on milk production. The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother's clinical need for Diazepam injection and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from Diazepam injection or from the underlying maternal condition. Clinical Considerations Infants exposed to Diazepam injection through breast milk should be monitored for sedation, poor feeding and poor weight gain. Benzodiazepines interact at GABA A sites and opioids interact primarily at mµ receptors. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 Inhibitors: Elimination of diazepam could be decreased with concurrent administration; therefore, adverse reactions with VALTOCO may be increased. ( 7.3 ) Inducers of CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 Inducers: Exposure of diazepam with concurrent administration may be decreased; therefore, efficacy with VALTOCO may be decreased. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Effect of Concomitant Use of Benzodiazepines and Opioids The concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids increases the risk of respiratory depression because of actions at different receptor sites in the CNS that control respiration. Benzodiazepines interact at GABA- A sites, and opioids interact primarily at mu receptors. When benzodiazepines and opioids are combined, the potential for benzodiazepines to significantly worsen opioid-related respiratory depression exists [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids, and follow patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. 7.2 CNS Depressants and Alcohol Coadministration of other CNS depressants (e.g., valproate) or consumption of alcohol may potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of diazepam [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. 7.3 Effect of Other Drugs on VALTOCO Metabolism Potential interactions may occur when diazepam is given concurrently with agents that affect CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 activity. Inhibitors of CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 Inhibitors of CYP2C19 (e.g., cimetidine, quinidine, and tranylcypromine) and CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole, troleandomycin, and clotrimazole) could decrease the rate of diazepam elimination; therefore, adverse reactions to VALTOCO may be increased. Inducers of CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 Inducers of CYP2C19 (e.g., rifampin) and CYP3A4 (e.g., carbamazepine, phenytoin, dexamethasone, and phenobarbital) could increase the rate of diazepam elimination; therefore, efficacy of VALTOCO may be decreased. 7.4 Effect of VALTOCO on the Metabolism of Other Drugs Diazepam is a substrate for CYP2C19 and CYP3A4; therefore, it is possible that VALTOCO may interfere with the metabolism of drugs which are substrates for CYP2C19 (e.g., omeprazole, propranolol, and imipramine) and CYP3A4 (e.g., cyclosporine, paclitaxel, theophylline, and warfarin) leading to a potential drug-drug interaction. Benzodiazepines interact at GABAA sites and opioids interact primarily at mu receptors. Centrally Acting Agents If diazepam is to be combined with other centrally acting agents, careful consideration should be given to the pharmacology of the agents employed particularly with compounds that may potentiate or be potentiated by the action of diazepam, such as phenothiazines, antipsychotics, anxiolytics/sedatives, hypnotics, anticonvulsants, narcotic analgesics, anesthetics, sedative antihistamines, narcotics, barbiturates, MAO inhibitors and other antidepressants. The lower peak concentrations appear due to a slower rate of absorption, with the time required to achieve peak concentrations on average 20 – 25 minutes greater in the presence of antacids.

=== DULOXETINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Duloxetine delayed-release capsules is indicated for the treatment of: Major depressive disorder in adults Generalized anxiety disorder in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain in adults Fibromyalgia in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for the treatment of the following conditions: Major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults ( 1 ) Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older ( 1 ) Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain (DPNP) in adults ( 1 ) Fibromyalgia (FM) in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older ( 1 ) Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are indicated for the treatment of: Major depressive disorder in adults Generalized anxiety disorder in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain in adults Fibromyalgia in adults Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults Additional pediatric use information is approved for Eli Lilly and Company, Inc.’s CYMBALTA (duloxetine) delayed-release capsules. However, due to Eli Lilly and Company Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information. Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for the treatment of the following conditions: Major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults ( 1 ) Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older ( 1 ) Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain (DPNP) in adults ( 1 ) Fibromyalgia (FM) in adults ( 1 ) Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are indicated for the treatment of: Major depressive disorder in adults Generalized anxiety disorder in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain in adults Fibromyalgia in adults Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for the treatment of the following conditions: Major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults (1) Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older (1) Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain (DPNP) in adults (1) Fibromyalgia (FM) in adults Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are indicated for the treatment of: Major depressive disorder in adults Generalized anxiety disorder in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain in adults Fibromyalgia in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for the treatment of the following conditions: Major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults ( 1 ) Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older ( 1 ) Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain (DPNP) in adults ( 1 ) Fibromyalgia (FM) in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older ( 1 ) Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are indicated for the treatment of: • Major depressive disorder in adults • Generalized anxiety disorder in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older • Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain in adults • Fibromyalgia in adults • Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for the treatment of the following conditions: • Major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults ( 1 ) • Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older ( 1 ) • Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain (DPNP) in adults ( 1 ) • Fibromyalgia (FM) in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older ( 1 ) • Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Duloxetine delayed-release capsule is a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for the treatment of the following conditions: Major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults ( 1 ) Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older ( 1 ) Diabetic peripheral neuropathic Pain (DPNP) in adults ( 1 ) Fibromyalgia (FM) in adults ( 1 )and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older ( 1 ) Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults ( 1 ) Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are indicated for the treatment of: Major depressive disorder in adults Generalized anxiety disorder in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain in adults Fibromyalgia in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Duloxetine delayed-release capsule is a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for the treatment of the following conditions: Major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults ( 1 ) Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older ( 1 ) Diabetic peripheral neuropathic Pain (DPNP) in adults ( 1 ) Fibromyalgia (FM) in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older ( 1 ) Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults ( 1 ) Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are indicated for the treatment of: Major depressive disorder in adults Generalized anxiety disorder in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain in adults Fibromyalgia in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take Duloxetine delayed-release capsules once daily, with or without food. Swallow whole; do not crush, chew, or open capsule ( 2.1 ) Indication Starting Dose Target Dose Maximum Dose MDD ( 2.2 ) 40 mg/day to 60 mg/day Acute Treatment: 40 mg/day (20 mg twice daily) to 60 mg/day (once daily or as 30 mg twice daily); Maintenance Treatment: 60 mg/day 120 mg/day GAD ( 2.3 ) Adults 60 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 120 mg/day Geriatric 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 120 mg/day Pediatrics (7 to 17 years of age) 30 mg/day 30 to 60 mg/day (once daily) 120 mg/day DPNP ( 2.4 ) 60 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day FM ( 2.5 ) Adults and Pediatrics (13 to 17 years of age) 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain ( 2.6 ) 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day Discontinuing Duloxetine delayed-release capsules: Gradually reduce dosage to avoid discontinuation symptoms ( 2.8 , 5.7 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Administer Duloxetine delayed-release capsules orally (with or without meals) and swallow whole. Do not chew or crush, and do not open the delayed-release capsule and sprinkle its contents on food or mix with liquids because these actions might affect the enteric coating. If a dose of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules is missed, take the missed dose as soon as it is remembered. If it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and take the next dose at the regular time. Do not take two doses of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules at the same time. 2.2 Dosage for Treatment of Major Depressive Disorder in Adults The recommended starting dosage in adults with MDD is 40 mg/day (given as 20 mg twice daily) to 60 mg/day (given either once daily or as 30 mg twice daily). For some patients, it may be desirable to start at 30 mg once daily for 1 week, to allow patients to adjust to Duloxetine delayed-release capsules before increasing to 60 mg once daily. While a 120 mg/day dose was shown to be effective, there is no evidence that doses greater than 60 mg/day confer any additional benefits. Periodically reassess to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dosage for such treatment. 2.3 Dosage for Treatment of Generalized Anxiety Disorder Recommended Dosage in Adults Less than 65 Years of Age For most adults less than 65 years of age with GAD, initiate Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 mg once daily. While a 120 mg once daily dosage was shown to be effective, there is no evidence that doses greater than 60 mg/day confer additional benefit. Nevertheless, if a decision is made to increase the dosage beyond 60 mg once daily, increase dosage in increments of 30 mg once daily. Periodically reassess to determine the continued need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dosage for such treatment. Recommended Dosage in Geriatric Patients In geriatric patients with GAD, initiate Duloxetine delayed-release capsules at a dosage of 30 mg once daily for 2 weeks before considering an increase to the target dose of 60 mg/day. Thereafter, patients may benefit from doses above 60 mg once daily. If a decision is made to increase the dose beyond 60 mg once daily, increase dose in increments of 30 mg once daily. The maximum dose studied was 120 mg per day. Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 7 to 17 Years of Age Initiate Duloxetine delayed-release capsules in pediatric patients 7 to 17 years of age with GAD at a dosage of 30 mg once daily for 2 weeks before considering an increase to 60 mg once daily. The recommended dosage range is 30 to 60 mg once daily. Some patients may benefit from dosages above 60 mg once daily. If a decision is made to increase the dose beyond 60 mg once daily, increase dosage in increments of 30 mg once daily. 2.4 Dosage for Treatment of Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathic Pain in Adults Administer 60 mg once daily in adults with diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain. There is no evidence that doses higher than 60 mg once daily confer additional significant benefit and the higher dosage is clearly less well tolerated. For patients for whom tolerability is a concern, a lower starting dose may be considered. Since diabetes is frequently complicated by renal disease, consider a lower starting dosage and gradual increase in dosage for patients with renal impairment [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) and Use in Specific Populations (8.10) ]. 2.5 Dosage for Treatment of Fibromyalgia Recommended Dosage in Adults The recommended Duloxetine delayed-release capsules dosage is 60 mg once daily in adults with fibromyalgia. Begin treatment at 30 mg once daily for 1 week, to allow patients to adjust to Duloxetine delayed-release capsules before increasing to 60 mg once daily. Some patients may respond to the starting dosage. There is no evidence that dosages greater than 60 mg/day confer additional benefit, even in patients who do not respond to a 60 mg/day dosage, and higher dosages were associated with a higher rate of adverse reactions. Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 13 to 17 Years of Age The recommended starting Duloxetine delayed-release capsules dosage in pediatric patients 13-17 years of age with fibromyalgia is 30 mg once daily. The dosage may be increased to 60 mg once daily based on response and tolerability. 2.6 Dosage for Treatment of Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain in Adults The recommended Duloxetine delayed-release capsules dosage is 60 mg once daily in adults with chronic musculoskeletal pain. Begin treatment at 30 mg once daily for one week, to allow patients to adjust to Duloxetine delayed-release capsules before increasing to 60 mg once daily. There is no evidence that higher dosages confer additional benefit, even in patients who do not respond to a 60 mg once daily dosage, and higher dosages are associated with a higher rate of adverse reactions [see Clinical Studies (14.6) ]. 2.7 Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment or Severe Renal Impairment Avoid use in patients with chronic liver disease or cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) and Use in Specific Populations (8.9) ]. Avoid use in patients with severe renal impairment, GFR <30 mL/minute [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) and Use in Specific Populations (8.10) ]. 2.8 Discontinuing Duloxetine delayed-release capsules Adverse reactions after discontinuation of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules, after abrupt or tapered discontinuation, include: dizziness, headache, nausea, diarrhea, paresthesia, irritability, vomiting, insomnia, anxiety, hyperhidrosis, and fatigue. A gradual reduction in dosage rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 2.9 Switching a Patient to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules. Conversely, at least 5 days should be allowed after stopping Duloxetine delayed-release capsules before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications (4) ]. 2.10 Use of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules with Other MAOIs such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start duloxetine in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see Contraindications (4) ]. In some cases, a patient already receiving Duloxetine delayed-release capsules therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, Duloxetine delayed-release capsules should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. The patient should be monitored for symptoms of serotonin syndrome for 5 days or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, whichever comes first. Therapy with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules is unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Swallow whole; do not crush, chew, or open capsule ( 2.1 ) Indication Starting Dose Target Dose Maximum Dose MDD ( 2.2 ) 40 mg/day to 60 mg/day Acute Treatment: 40 mg/day (20 mg twice daily) to 60 mg/day (once daily or as 30 mg twice daily); Maintenance Treatment: 60 mg/day 120 mg/day GAD ( 2.3 ) Adults Geriatric Pediatrics (7 to 17 years of age) 60 mg/day 30 mg/day 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day (once daily) 30 to 60 mg/day (once daily) 120 mg/day 120 mg/day 120 mg/day DPNP ( 2.4 ) 60 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day FM ( 2.5 ) Adults 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain ( 2.6 ) 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day Discontinuing duloxetine delayed-release capsules: Gradually reduce dosage to avoid discontinuation symptoms ( 2.8 , 5.7 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Administer duloxetine delayed-release capsules orally (with or without meals) and swallow whole. Since diabetes is frequently complicated by renal disease, consider a lower starting dosage and gradual increase in dosage for patients with renal impairment [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) and Use in Specific Populations (8.10) ] . Additional pediatric use information is approved for Eli Lilly and Company, Inc.’s CYMBALTA (duloxetine) delayed-release capsules. However, due to Eli Lilly and Company Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information. There is no evidence that higher dosages confer additional benefit, even in patients who do not respond to a 60 mg once daily dosage, and higher dosages are associated with a higher rate of adverse reactions [see Clinical Studies (14.6) ] . 2.7 Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment or Severe Renal Impairment Avoid use in patients with chronic liver disease or cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) and Use in Specific Populations (8.9) ] . Avoid use in patients with severe renal impairment, GFR <30 mL/minute [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) and Use in Specific Populations (8.10) ] . A gradual reduction in dosage rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . Conversely, at least 5 days should be allowed after stopping duloxetine delayed-release capsules before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications (4) ] . 2.10 Use of Duloxetine Delayed-Release Capsules with Other MAOIs such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start duloxetine delayed-release capsules in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see Contraindications (4) ] . Therapy with duloxetine delayed-release capsules may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Swallow whole; do not crush, chew, or open capsule (2.1) Indication Starting Dose Target Dose Maximum Dose MDD (2.2) 40 mg/day to 60 mg/day Acute Treatment: 40 mg/day (20 mg twice daily) to 60 mg/day (once daily or as 30 mg twice daily); Maintenance Treatment: 60 mg/day 120 mg/day GAD (2.3) Adults Geriatric Pediatrics (7 to 17 years of age) 60 mg/day 30 mg/day 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day (once daily) 30 to 60 mg/day (once daily) 120 mg/day 120 mg/day 120 mg/day DPNP (2.4) 60 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day FM (2.5) Adults 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain (2.6) 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day • Discontinuing duloxetine delayed-release capsules: Gradually reduce dosage to avoid discontinuation symptoms (2.8, 5.7) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Administer duloxetine delayed-release capsule orally (with or without meals) and swallow whole. If a dose of duloxetine delayed-release capsule is missed, take the missed dose as soon as it is remembered. Do not take two doses of duloxetine delayed-release capsule at the same time. Recommended Dosage in Geriatric Patients In geriatric patients with GAD, initiate duloxetine delayed-release capsules at a dosage 30 mg once daily for 2 weeks before considering an increase to the target dose of 60 mg/day. Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 7 to 17 Years of Age Initiate duloxetine delayed-release capsules in pediatric patients 7 to 17 years of age with GAD at a dosage of30 mg once daily for 2 weeks before considering an increase to 60 mg once daily. Since diabetes is frequently complicated by renal disease, consider a lower starting dosage and gradual increase in dosage for patients with renal impairment [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) and Use in Specific Populations (8.10)] . Begin treatment at 30 mg once daily for 1 week, to allow patients to adjust to duloxetine delayed-release capsulesbefore increasing to 60 mg once daily. There is no evidence that higher dosages confer additional benefit, even in patients who do not respond to a 60 mg once daily dose dosage, and higher dosages are associated with a higher rate of adverse reactions [see Clinical Studies (14.6)] . 2.7 Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment or Severe Renal impairment Avoid use in patients with chronic liver disease or cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) and Use in Specific Populations (8.9)] . Avoid use in patients with severe renal impairment, GFR <30 mL/minute [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) and Use in Specific Populations (8.10)] . A gradual reduction in the dosage rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] . 2.9 Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with duloxetine delayed-release capsules. Conversely, at least 5 days should be allowed after stopping duloxetine delayed-release capsules before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications (4)] . 2.10 Use of Duloxetine Delayed-Release Capsules with Other MAOIs such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start duloxetine delayed-release capsule in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see Contraindications (4)]. In some cases, a patient already receiving duloxetine delayed-release capsule therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, duloxetine delayed-release capsule should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. Therapy with duloxetine delayed-release capsules may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with duloxetine delayed-release capsule is unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] . Swallow whole; do not crush, or chew, or open capsule ( 2.1 ) Indication Starting Dose Target Dose Maximum Dose MDD ( 2.2 ) 40 mg/day to 60 mg/day Acute Treatment: 40 mg/day (20 mg twice daily) to 60 mg/day (once daily or as 30 mg twice daily); Maintenance Treatment: 60 mg/day 120 mg/day GAD ( 2.3 ) Adults 60 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 120 mg/day Geriatric 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 120 mg/day Pediatrics (7 years to 17 years of age) 30 mg/day 30 to 60 mg/day (once daily) 120 mg/day DPNP ( 2.4 ) 60 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day FM ( 2.5 ) Adults and Pediatrics (13 years to 17 years of age) 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain ( 2.6 ) 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day Discontinuing duloxetine delayed-release capsules: Gradually reduce dosage to avoid discontinuation symptoms ( 2.8 , 5.7 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Administer duloxetine delayed-release capsules orally (with or without meals) and swallow whole. Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 7 Years to 17 Years of Age Initiate duloxetine delayed-release capsules in pediatric patients 7 years to 17 years of age with GAD at a dosage of 30 mg once daily for 2 weeks before considering an increase to 60 mg once daily. The recommended dosages range is 30 mg to 60 mg once daily. There is no evidence that doses higher than 60 mg once daily confer additional significant benefit and the higher dosage is clearly less well tolerated . Since diabetes is frequently complicated by renal disease, consider a lower starting dosage and gradual increase in dosage for patients with renal impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.10 )]. 2.5 Dosage for Treatment of Fibromyalgia Recommended Dosage in Adults The recommended duloxetine delayed-release capsule dosage is 60 mg once daily in adults with fibromyalgia. Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 13 Years to 17 Years of Age The recommended starting duloxetine dosage in pediatric patients 13 years to 17 years of age with fibromyalgia is 30 mg once daily. There is no evidence that higher dosages confer additional benefit, even in patients who do not respond to a 60 mg once daily dosage, and higher dosages are associated with a higher rate of adverse reactions [see Clinical Studies ( 14.6 )]. 2.7 Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment or Severe Renal Impairment Avoid use in patients with chronic liver disease or cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.9 )]. Avoid use in patients with severe renal impairment, GFR less than 30 mL/minute [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.10 )] . A gradual reduction in dosage rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )]. Conversely, at least 5 days should be allowed after stopping duloxetine delayed-release capsules before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. Therapy with duloxetine delayed-release capsules may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. The recommended dosage range is 30 mg to 60 mg once daily. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Take duloxetine delayed-release capsules once daily, with or without food. Swallow whole; do not crush, chew, or open capsule ( 2.1 ) Indication Starting Dose Target Dose Maximum Dose MDD (2.2) 40 mg/day to 60 mg/day Acute Treatment: 40 mg/day (20 mg twice daily) to 60 mg/day (once daily or as 30 mg twice daily); Maintenance Treatment: 60 mg/day 120 mg/day GAD (2.3) Adults Geriatric Pediatrics (7 to 17 years of age) 60 mg/day 30 mg/day 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day (once daily) 30 to 60 mg/day (once daily) 120 mg/day 120 mg/day 120 mg/day DPNP (2.4) 60 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day FM (2.5) Adults Pediatrics (13 to 17 years of age) 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain (2.6) 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day • Discontinuing duloxetine delayed-release capsules: Gradually reduce dosage to avoid discontinuation symptoms ( 2.8 , 5.7 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Administer duloxetine delayed-release capsules orally (with or without meals) and swallow whole. For some patients, it may be desirable to start at 30 mg once daily for 1 week, to allow patients to adjust to duloxetine before increasing to 60 mg once daily. Since diabetes is frequently complicated by renal disease, consider a lower starting dosage and gradual increase in dosage for patients with renal impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.10 ) .] 2.5 Dosage for Treatment of Fibromyalgia Recommended Dosage in Adults The recommended duloxetine delayed-release capsules dosage is 60 mg once daily in adults with fibromyalgia. 2.7 Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment or Severe Renal Impairment Avoid use in patients with chronic liver disease or cirrhosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.9 ) ]. Avoid use in patients with severe renal impairment, GFR <30 mL/minute [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.10 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Take duloxetine delayed-release capsules once daily, with or without food. Swallow whole; do not crush, chew, or open capsule. ( 2.1 ) Indication Starting Dose Target Dose Maximum Dose MDD ( 2.2 ) 40 mg/day to 60 mg/day Acute Treatment: 40 mg/day (20 mg twice daily) to 60 mg/day (once daily or as 30 mg twice daily); Maintenance Treatment: 60 mg/day 120 mg/day GAD ( 2.3 ) Adults Geriatric Pediatrics (7 to 17 years of age) 60 mg/day 30 mg/day 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day (once daily) 30 to 60 mg/day (once daily) 120 mg/day 120 mg/day 120 mg/day DPNP ( 2.4 ) 60 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day FM ( 2.5 ) Adults and Pediatrics (13 to 17 years of age) 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain ( 2.6 ) 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day Discontinuing duloxetine delayed-release capsules: Gradually reduce dosage to avoid discontinuation symptoms ( 2.8 , 5.7 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Administer duloxetine delayed-release capsules orally (with or without meals) and swallow whole. For some patients, it may be desirable to start at 30 mg once daily for 1 week, to allow patients to adjust to duloxetine delayed- release capsules before increasing to 60 mg once daily. Since diabetes is frequently complicated by renal disease, consider a lower starting dosage and gradual increase in dosage for patients with renal impairment [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.10 )] . Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 13 to 17 Years of Age The recommended starting duloxetine delayed-release capsule dosage in pediatric patients 13 to17 years of age with fibromyalgia is 30 mg once daily. Avoid use in patients with severe renal impairment, GFR <30 mL/minute [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.10 )]. A gradual reduction in dosage rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] .
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules or within 5 days of stopping treatment with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.8) and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Starting Duloxetine delayed-release capsules in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration (2.9) and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Concomitant use of an MAOI antidepressant with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules is contraindicated Use of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules within 14 days of stopping an MAOI antidepressant is contraindicated In linezolid- or intravenous methylene blue-treated patients, initiation of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules is contraindicated ( 4 ) The use of duloxetine delayed-release capsules within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.8) and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Starting duloxetine delayed-release capsules in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration (2.9) and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Concomitant use of an MAOI antidepressant with duloxetine delayed-release capsules is contraindicated Use of duloxetine delayed-release capsules within 14 days of stopping an MAOI antidepressant is contraindicated In linezolid- or intravenous methylene blue-treated patients, initiation of duloxetine delayed-release capsules are contraindicated ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with duloxetine delayed-release capsule or within 5 days of stopping treatment with duloxetine delayed-release capsule is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of duloxetine delayed-release capsules within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.8) and Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. Starting duloxetine delayed-release capsule in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration (2.9) and Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. Concomitant use of an MAOI antidepressant with duloxetine delayed-release capsule is contraindicated Use of duloxetine delayed-release capsule within 14 days of stopping an MAOI antidepressant is contraindicated In linezolid-or intravenous methylene blue-treated patients, initiation of duloxetine delayed-release capsule is contraindicated (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with duloxetine or within 5 days of stopping treatment with duloxetine is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of duloxetine within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.8 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. Starting duloxetine in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.9 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. Concomitant use of an MAOI antidepressant with duloxetine is contraindicated Use of duloxetine within 14 days of stopping an MAOI antidepressant is contraindicated In linezolid-or intravenous methylene blue-treated patients, initiation of duloxetine is contraindicated ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with duloxetine delayed-release capsules or within 5 days of stopping treatment with duloxetine delayed-release capsules are contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of duloxetine delayed-release capsules within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.8 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. Starting duloxetine delayed-release capsules in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.9 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. • Concomitant use of an MAOI antidepressant with duloxetine delayed-release capsules is contraindicated • Use of duloxetine delayed-release capsules within 14 days of stopping an MAOI antidepressant is contraindicated. • In linezolid-or intravenous methylene blue-treated patients, initiation of duloxetine delayed-release capsules is contraindicated ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Concomitant use of an MAOI antidepressant with duloxetine is contraindicated Use of duloxetine within 14 days of stopping an MAOI antidepressant is contraindicated In linezolid or intravenous methylene blue-treated patients, initiation of duloxetine is contraindicated ( 4 ) The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with duloxetine or within 5 days of stopping treatment with duloxetine is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Both CYP1A2 and CYP2D6 are responsible for duloxetine metabolism. Potent inhibitors of CYP1A2 should be avoided ( 7.1 ) Potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 may increase Duloxetine delayed-release capsules concentrations ( 7.2 ) Duloxetine delayed-release capsules is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 ( 7.9 ) 7.1 Inhibitors of CYP1A2 When duloxetine 60 mg was co-administered with fluvoxamine 100 mg, a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor, to male subjects (n=14) duloxetine AUC was increased approximately 6-fold, the C max was increased about 2.5-fold, and duloxetine t 1/2 was increased approximately 3-fold. Other drugs that inhibit CYP1A2 metabolism include cimetidine and quinolone antimicrobials such as ciprofloxacin and enoxacin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. 7.2 Inhibitors of CYP2D6 Concomitant use of duloxetine (40 mg once daily) with paroxetine (20 mg once daily) increased the concentration of duloxetine AUC by about 60%, and greater degrees of inhibition are expected with higher doses of paroxetine. Similar effects would be expected with other potent CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., fluoxetine, quinidine) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. 7.3 Dual Inhibition of CYP1A2 and CYP2D6 Concomitant administration of duloxetine 40 mg twice daily with fluvoxamine 100 mg, a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor, to CYP2D6 poor metabolizer subjects (n=14) resulted in a 6-fold increase in duloxetine AUC and C max. 7.4 Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., NSAIDs, Aspirin, and Warfarin) Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies of the case-control and cohort design that have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding have also shown that concurrent use of an NSAID or aspirin may potentiate this risk of bleeding. Altered anticoagulant effects, including increased bleeding, have been reported when SSRIs or SNRIs are co-administered with warfarin. Concomitant administration of warfarin (2-9 mg once daily) under steady state conditions with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 or 120 mg once daily for up to 14 days in healthy subjects (n=15) did not significantly change INR from baseline (mean INR changes ranged from 0.05 to +0.07). The total warfarin (protein bound plus free drug) pharmacokinetics (AUC τ,ss , C max,ss or t max,ss ) for both R- and S-warfarin were not altered by duloxetine. Because of the potential effect of duloxetine on platelets, patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. 7.5 Lorazepam Under steady-state conditions for duloxetine (60 mg Q 12 hours) and lorazepam (2 mg Q 12 hours), the pharmacokinetics of duloxetine were not affected by co-administration. 7.6 Temazepam Under steady-state conditions for duloxetine (20 mg qhs) and temazepam (30 mg qhs), the pharmacokinetics of duloxetine were not affected by co-administration. 7.7 Drugs that Affect Gastric Acidity Duloxetine delayed-release capsules have an enteric coating that resists dissolution until reaching a segment of the gastrointestinal tract where the pH exceeds 5.5. In extremely acidic conditions, Duloxetine delayed-release capsules, unprotected by the enteric coating, may undergo hydrolysis to form naphthol. Caution is advised in using Duloxetine delayed-release capsules in patients with conditions that may slow gastric emptying (e.g., some diabetics). Drugs that raise the gastrointestinal pH may lead to an earlier release of duloxetine. However, co- administration of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules with aluminum- and magnesium-containing antacids (51 mEq) or Duloxetine delayed-release capsules with famotidine, had no significant effect on the rate or extent of duloxetine absorption after administration of a 40 mg oral dose. It is unknown whether the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors affects duloxetine absorption [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) ]. 7.8 Drugs Metabolized by CYP1A2 In vitro drug interaction studies demonstrate that duloxetine does not induce CYP1A2 activity. Therefore, an increase in the metabolism of CYP1A2 substrates (e.g., theophylline, caffeine) resulting from induction is not anticipated, although clinical studies of induction have not been performed. Duloxetine is an inhibitor of the CYP1A2 isoform in in vitro studies, and in two clinical studies the average (90% confidence interval) increase in theophylline AUC was 7% (1%-15%) and 20% (13%-27%) when co-administered with duloxetine (60 mg twice daily). 7.9 Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Duloxetine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. When duloxetine was administered (at a dose of 60 mg twice daily) in conjunction with a single 50 mg dose of desipramine, a CYP2D6 substrate, the AUC of desipramine increased 3-fold [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. 7.10 Drugs Metabolized by CYP2C9 Results of in vitro studies demonstrate that duloxetine does not inhibit activity. In a clinical study, the pharmacokinetics of S-warfarin, a CYP2C9 substrate, were not significantly affected by duloxetine [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ]. 7.11 Drugs Metabolized by CYP3A Results of in vitro studies demonstrate that duloxetine does not inhibit or induce CYP3A activity. Therefore, an increase or decrease in the metabolism of CYP3A substrates (e.g., oral contraceptives and other steroidal agents) resulting from induction or inhibition is not anticipated, although clinical studies have not been performed. 7.12 Drugs Metabolized by CYP2C19 Results of in vitro studies demonstrate that duloxetine does not inhibit CYP2C19 activity at therapeutic concentrations. Inhibition of the metabolism of CYP2C19 substrates is therefore not anticipated, although clinical studies have not been performed. 7.13 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) [See Dosage and Administration (2.9 , 2.10) , Contraindications (4) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. 7.14 Other Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of serotonergic drugs (including other SNRIs, SSRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan, and St. John's Wort) with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. 7.15 Alcohol When Duloxetine delayed-release capsules and ethanol were administered several hours apart so that peak concentrations of each would coincide, Duloxetine delayed-release capsules did not increase the impairment of mental and motor skills caused by alcohol. In the Duloxetine delayed-release capsules clinical trials database, three Duloxetine delayed-release capsules-treated patients had liver injury as manifested by ALT and total bilirubin elevations, with evidence of obstruction. Substantial intercurrent ethanol use was present in each of these cases, and this may have contributed to the abnormalities seen [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.12) ]. 7.16 CNS Drugs [See Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. 7.17 Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Protein Because duloxetine is highly bound to plasma protein, administration of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules to a patient taking another drug that is highly protein bound may cause increased free concentrations of the other drug, potentially resulting in adverse reactions. However, co-administration of duloxetine (60 or 120 mg) with warfarin (2-9 mg), a highly protein-bound drug, did not result in significant changes in INR and in the pharmacokinetics of either total S-or total R-warfarin (protein bound plus free drug) [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ]. Potent inhibitors of CYP1A2 should be avoided (7.1) Potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 may increase duloxetine delayed-release capsules concentrations (7.2) Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 (7.9) 7.1 Inhibitors of CYP1A2 When duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 mg was co-administered with fluvoxamine 100 mg, a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor, to male subjects (n=14) duloxetine AUC was increased approximately 6-fold, the C max was increased about 2.5-fold, and duloxetine t 1/2 was increased approximately 3-fold. Other drugs that inhibit CYP1A2 metabolism include cimetidine and quinolone antimicrobials such as ciprofloxacin and enoxacin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . 7.2 Inhibitors of CYP2D6 Concomitant use of duloxetine delayed-release capsules (40 mg once daily) with paroxetine (20 mg once daily) increased the concentration of duloxetine AUC by about 60%, and greater degrees of inhibition are expected with higher doses of paroxetine. Similar effects would be expected with other potent CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., fluoxetine, quinidine) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . 7.3 Dual Inhibition of CYP1A2 and CYP2D6 Concomitant administration of duloxetine delayed-release capsules 40 mg twice daily with fluvoxamine 100 mg, a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor, to CYP2D6 poor metabolizer subjects (n=14) resulted in a 6-fold increase in duloxetine AUC and C max . Concomitant administration of warfarin (2 to 9 mg once daily) under steady state conditions with duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 or 120 mg once daily for up to 14 days in healthy subjects (n=15) did not significantly change INR from baseline (mean INR changes ranged from 0.05 to +0.07). Because of the potential effect of duloxetine on platelets, patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when duloxetine delayed-release capsules are initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . 7.5 Lorazepam Under steady-state conditions for duloxetine delayed-release capsules (60 mg Q 12 hours) and lorazepam (2 mg Q 12 hours), the pharmacokinetics of duloxetine were not affected by co-administration. 7.6 Temazepam Under steady-state conditions for duloxetine delayed-release capsules (20 mg qhs) and temazepam (30 mg qhs), the pharmacokinetics of duloxetine were not affected by co-administration. However, co-administration of duloxetine delayed-release capsules with aluminum- and magnesium-containing antacids (51 mEq) or duloxetine delayed-release capsules with famotidine, had no significant effect on the rate or extent of duloxetine absorption after administration of a 40 mg oral dose. It is unknown whether the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors affects duloxetine absorption [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) ] . Duloxetine is an inhibitor of the CYP1A2 isoform in in vitro studies, and in two clinical studies the average (90% confidence interval) increase in theophylline AUC was 7% (1% to 15%) and 20% (13% to 27%) when co-administered with duloxetine delayed-release capsules (60 mg twice daily). When duloxetine delayed-release capsules was administered (at a dose of 60 mg twice daily) in conjunction with a single 50 mg dose of desipramine, a CYP2D6 substrate, the AUC of desipramine increased 3-fold [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . In a clinical study, the pharmacokinetics of S-warfarin, a CYP2C9 substrate, were not significantly affected by duloxetine [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ] . 7.13 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) [See Dosage and Administration (2.9 , 2.10) , Contraindications (4) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . 7.14 Serotonergic Drugs [See Dosage and Administration (2.9 , 2.10) , Contraindications (4) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Substantial intercurrent ethanol use was present in each of these cases, and this may have contributed to the abnormalities seen [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.12) ] . However, co-administration of duloxetine delayed-release capsules (60 or 120 mg) with warfarin (2 to 9 mg), a highly protein-bound drug, did not result in significant changes in INR and in the pharmacokinetics of either total S-or total R-warfarin (protein bound plus free drug) [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ] . Potent inhibitors of CYP1A2 should be avoided (7.1). Potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 may increase duloxetine concentrations (7.2). Duloxetine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 (7.9). 7.1 Inhibitors of CYP1A2 When duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 mg was co-administered with fluvoxamine 100 mg, a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor, to male subjects (n=14) duloxetine AUC was increased approximately 6-fold, the C max was increased about 2.5-fold, and duloxetine t 1/2 was increased approximately 3-fold. Other drugs that inhibit CYP1A2 metabolism include cimetidine and quinolone antimicrobials such as ciprofloxacin and enoxacin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] . Similar effects would be expected with other potent CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., fluoxetine, quinidine) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] . Because of the potential effect of duloxetine on platelets, patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when duloxetine delayed-release capsule is initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] . It is unknown whether the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors affects duloxetine absorption [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] . When duloxetine delayed-release capsules was administered (at a dose of 60 mg twice daily) in conjunction with a single 50 mg dose of desipramine, a CYP2D6 substrate, the AUC of desipramine increased 3-fold [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] . In a clinical study, the pharmacokinetics of S-warfarin, a CYP2C9 substrate, were not significantly affected by duloxetine [see Drug Interactions (7.4)] . 7.13 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) [See Dosage and Administration (2.9, 2.10), Contraindications (4), and Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. 7.14 Serotonergic Drugs [See Dosage and Administration (2.9,2.10), Contraindications (4), and Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. Substantial intercurrent ethanol use was present in each of these cases, and this may have contributed to the abnormalities seen [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 and 5.12)] . 7.16 CNS Drugs [See Warnings and Precautions (5.12)]. However, co-administration of duloxetine delayed-release capsules (60 or 120 mg) with warfarin (2 to 9 mg), a highly protein-bound drug, did not result in significant changes in INR and in the pharmacokinetics of either total S-or total R-warfarin (protein bound plus free drug) [see Drug Interactions (7.4)] . Potent inhibitors of CYP1A2 should be avoided ( 7.1 ). Potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 may increase duloxetine concentrations ( 7.2 ). Duloxetine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 ( 7.9 ). 7.1 Inhibitors of CYP1A2 When duloxetine 60 mg was co-administered with fluvoxamine 100 mg, a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor, to male subjects (n=14) duloxetine AUC was increased approximately 6-fold, the C max was increased about 2.5-fold, and duloxetine t 1/2 was increased approximately 3-fold. Other drugs that inhibit CYP1A2 metabolism include cimetidine and quinolone antimicrobials such as ciprofloxacin and enoxacin [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] . Similar effects would be expected with other potent CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., fluoxetine, quinidine) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] . 7.3 Dual Inhibition of CYP1A2 and CYP2D6 Concomitant administration of duloxetine 40 mg twice daily with fluvoxamine 100 mg, a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor, to CYP2D6 poor metabolizer subjects (n=14) resulted in a 6-fold increase in duloxetine AUC and C max . Concomitant administration of warfarin (2 mg to 9 mg once daily) under steady state conditions with duloxetine 60 mg or 120 mg once daily for up to 14 days in healthy subjects (n=15) did not significantly change INR from baseline (mean INR changes ranged from 0.05 to +0.07). The total warfarin (protein bound plus free drug) pharmacokinetics (AUC T,ss, C max,ss or t max,ss ) for both R- and S-warfarin were not altered by duloxetine. Because of the potential effect of duloxetine on platelets, patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when duloxetine is initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . 7.7 Drugs that Affect Gastric Acidity Duloxetine has an enteric coating that resists dissolution until reaching a segment of the gastrointestinal tract where the pH exceeds 5.5. In extremely acidic conditions, duloxetine, unprotected by the enteric coating, may undergo hydrolysis to form naphthol. Caution is advised in using duloxetine in patients with conditions that may slow gastric emptying (e.g., some diabetics). However, co-administration of duloxetine with aluminum- and magnesium-containing antacids (51 mEq) or duloxetine with famotidine, had no significant effect on the rate or extent of duloxetine absorption after administration of a 40 mg oral dose. It is unknown whether the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors affects duloxetine absorption [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 )] . Duloxetine is an inhibitor of the CYP1A2 isoform in in vitro studies, and in two clinical studies the average (90% confidence interval) increase in theophylline AUC was 7% (1% to 15%) and 20% (13% to 27%) when co-administered with duloxetine (60 mg twice daily). When duloxetine was administered (at a dose of 60 mg twice daily) in conjunction with a single 50 mg dose of desipramine, a CYP2D6 substrate, the AUC of desipramine increased 3-fold [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] . In a clinical study, the pharmacokinetics of S-warfarin, a CYP2C9 substrate, were not significantly affected by duloxetine [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 )] . 7.13 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) [See Dosage and Administration ( 2.9 , 2.10 ), Contraindications ( 4 ), and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . John's Wort) with duloxetine increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of duloxetine and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. 7.15 Alcohol When duloxetine and ethanol were administered several hours apart so that peak concentrations of each would coincide, duloxetine did not increase the impairment of mental and motor skills caused by alcohol. In the duloxetine clinical trials database, three duloxetine-treated patients had liver injury as manifested by ALT and total bilirubin elevations, with evidence of obstruction. Substantial intercurrent ethanol use was present in each of these cases, and this may have contributed to the abnormalities seen [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.12 )] . 7.16 CNS Drugs [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] . 7.17 Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Protein Because duloxetine is highly bound to plasma protein, administration of duloxetine to a patient taking another drug that is highly protein bound may cause increased free concentrations of the other drug, potentially resulting in adverse reactions. However, co-administration of duloxetine (60 mg or 120 mg) with warfarin (2 mg to 9 mg), a highly protein-bound drug, did not result in significant changes in INR and in the pharmacokinetics of either total S-or total R-warfarin (protein bound plus free drug) [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 )] . 7.1 Inhibitors of CYP1A2 When duloxetine 60 mg was co-administered with fluvoxamine 100 mg, a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor, to male subjects (n=14) duloxetine AUC was increased approximately 6-fold, the C max was increased about 2.5-fold, and duloxetine t ½ was increased approximately 3-fold. John’s Wort) with duloxetine increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. • Potent inhibitors of CYP1A2 should be avoided ( 7.1 ). • Potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 may increase duloxetine concentrations ( 7.2 ). • Duloxetine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 ( 7.9 ). 7.1 Inhibitors of CYP1A2 When duloxetine 60 mg was co-administered with fluvoxamine 100 mg, a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor, to male subjects (n=14) duloxetine AUC was increased approximately 6-fold, the Cmax was increased about 2.5-fold, and duloxetine t1/2 was increased approximately 3-fold. Other drugs that inhibit CYP1A2 metabolism include cimetidine and quinolone antimicrobials such as ciprofloxacin and enoxacin [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )]. Similar effects would be expected with other potent CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., fluoxetine, quinidine) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )]. Concomitant administration of warfarin (2-9 mg once daily) under steady state conditions with duloxetine 60 or 120 mg once daily for up to 14 days in healthy subjects (n=15) did not significantly change INR from baseline (mean INR changes ranged from 0.05 to +0.07). The total warfarin (protein bound plus free drug) pharmacokinetics (AUC τ,ss , C max,ss or t max , ss ) for both R- and S-warfarin were not altered by duloxetine. Because of the potential effect of duloxetine on platelets, patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when duloxetine is initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )]. It is unknown whether the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors affects duloxetine absorption [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 )]. When duloxetine was administered (at a dose of 60 mg twice daily) in conjunction with a single 50 mg dose of desipramine, a CYP2D6 substrate, the AUC of desipramine increased 3-fold [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )]. In a clinical study, the pharmacokinetics of S-warfarin, a CYP2C9 substrate, were not significantly affected by duloxetine [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 )]. 7.13 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) [See Dosage and Administration ( 2.9 , 2.10 ), Contraindications ( 4 ), and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of duloxetine delayed-release capsules and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) ]. In the duloxetine delayed-release capsules clinical trials database, three duloxetine-treated patients had liver injury as manifested by ALT and total bilirubin elevations, with evidence of obstruction. Substantial intercurrent ethanol use was present in each of these cases, and this may have contributed to the abnormalities seen [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.12 )]. 7.16 CNS Drugs [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )]. However, co-administration of duloxetine (60 or 120 mg) with warfarin (2-9 mg), a highly protein-bound drug, did not result in significant changes in INR and in the pharmacokinetics of either total S-or total R-warfarin (protein bound plus free drug) [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Potent inhibitors of CYP1A2 should be avoided ( 7.1 ) Potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 may increase duloxetine concentrations ( 7.2 ) Duloxetine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 ( 7.9 ) Both CYP1A2 and CYP2D6 are responsible for duloxetine metabolism. Concomitant administration of warfarin (2 to 9 mg once daily) under steady state conditions with duloxetine 60 or 120 mg once daily for up to 14 days in healthy subjects (n=15) did not significantly change INR from baseline (mean INR changes ranged from 0.05 to +0.07). 7.13 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) [See Dosage and Administration ( 2.8 , 2.9 ), Contraindications (4), and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider is continuation of duloxetine and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . In the duloxetine clinical trials database, three duloxetine -treated patients had liver injury as manifested by ALT and total bilirubin elevations, with evidence of obstruction. However, co-administration of duloxetine (60 or 120 mg) with warfarin (2 to 9 mg), a highly protein-bound drug, did not result in significant changes in INR and in the pharmacokinetics of either total S-or total R-warfarin (protein bound plus free drug) [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 )] . If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of duloxetine and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] .

=== NALOXONE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Emergency treatment of opioid overdose Purpose Emergency treatment of opioid overdose
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets are indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosage or duration, and persist over the course of therapy, reserve opioid analgesics, including Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets are indicated for maintenance treatment of opioid dependence. Buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets should be used as part of a complete treatment plan that includes counseling and psychosocial support. Buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablet contains buprenorphine, a partial opioid agonist, and naloxone, an opioid antagonist, and is indicated for the maintenance treatment of opioid dependence. ( 1 ) Buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets should be used as part of a complete treatment plan that includes counseling and psychosocial support. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray is indicated for the emergency treatment of known or suspected opioid overdose, as manifested by respiratory and/or central nervous system depression. Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray is intended for immediate administration as emergency therapy in settings where opioids may be present. Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray is not a substitute for emergency medical care. Limitations of Use: Restrict prescription of naloxone hydrochloride nasal spray 2 mg to opioid-dependent patients expected to be at risk for severe opioid withdrawal in situations where there is a low risk for accidental or intentional opioid exposure by household contacts. Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray is an opioid antagonist indicated for the emergency treatment of known or suspected opioid overdose, as manifested by respiratory and/or central nervous system depression. ( 1 ) Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray is intended for immediate administration as emergency therapy in settings where opioids may be present. ( 1 ) Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray is not a substitute for emergency medical care. Indications and Usage Naloxone Hydrochloride Injection is indicated for the complete or partial reversal of opioid depression, including respiratory depression, induced by natural and synthetic opioids including propoxyphene, methadone, and certain mixed agonist-antagonist analgesics: nalbuphine, pentazocine, butorphanol, and cyclazocine. Naloxone hydrochloride is also indicated for the diagnosis of suspected or known acute opioid overdosage. Naloxone may be useful as an adjunctive agent to increase blood pressure in the management of septic shock (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY; ADJUNCTIVE USE IN SEPTIC SHOCK). USES to “revive” someone during an overdose from many prescription pain medications or street drugs such as heroin this medicine can save a life 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE NARCAN Nasal Spray is indicated for the emergency treatment of known or suspected opioid overdose, as manifested by respiratory and/or central nervous system depression. NARCAN Nasal Spray is intended for immediate administration as emergency therapy in settings where opioids may be present. NARCAN Nasal Spray is not a substitute for emergency medical care. NARCAN Nasal Spray is an opioid antagonist indicated for the emergency treatment of known or suspected opioid overdose, as manifested by respiratory and/or central nervous system depression. ( 1 ) NARCAN Nasal Spray is intended for immediate administration as emergency therapy in settings where opioids may be present. ( 1 ) NARCAN Nasal Spray is not a substitute for emergency medical care. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use: Restrict prescription of NARCAN Nasal Spray 2 mg to opioid-dependent patients expected to be at risk for severe opioid withdrawal in situations where there is a low risk for accidental or intentional opioid exposure by household contacts. Use(s) to “revive” someone during an overdose from many prescription pain medications or street drugs such as heroin this medicine can save a life 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Buprenorphine and Naloxone Sublingual Tablets are indicated for the maintenance treatment of opioid dependence. Buprenorphine and Naloxone Sublingual Tablets contain buprenorphine, a partial opioid agonist, and naloxone, an opioid antagonist, and is indicated for the maintenance treatment of opioid dependence. • to “revive” someone during an overdose from many prescription pain medications or street drugs such as heroin • this medicine can save a life
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions ] . Reserve titration to higher doses of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. Clinical guidelines on opioid prescribing for some acute pain conditions are available. There is variability in the opioid analgesic dose and duration needed to adequately manage pain due both to the cause of pain and to individual patient factors. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [ see Warnings ]. Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [ see Warnings ]. Patient Access to an Opioid Overdose Reversal Agent for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Inform patients and caregivers about opioid overdose reversal agents (e.g., naloxone, nalmefene). Discuss the importance of having access to an opioid overdose reversal agent, especially if the patient has risk factors for overdose (e.g., concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose) or if there are household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the management of pain in any patient [see WARNINGS, Addiction, Abuse and Misuse; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression; Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants]. Discuss the options for obtaining an opioid overdose reversal agent (e.g., prescription, over-the-counter, or as part of a community-based program). There are important differences among the opioid overdose reversal agents, such as route of administration, product strength, approved patient age range, and pharmacokinetics. Be familiar with these differences, as outlined in the approved labeling for those products, prior to recommending or prescribing such an agent. Initial Dosage Use of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets as the First Opioid Analgesic Initiate treatment with Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets, USP in a dosing range of 1 tablet every 3 to 4 hours as needed for pain, at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient's response to their initial dose of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets. This may be increased to 2 tablets when needed. Total daily dosage should not exceed 12 tablets. Conversion from Other Opioids to Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets There is inter-patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and opioid formulations. Therefore, a conservative approach is advised when determining the total daily dosage of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets. It is safer to underestimate a patient's 24-hour Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets dosage than to overestimate the 24-hour Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to overdose. Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as assessing for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see WARNINGS ]. Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration. If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets dosage. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid- related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage. Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions. Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. Rapid discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. Patients may also attempt to treat their pain or withdrawal symptoms with illicit opioids, such as heroin, and other substances. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. It is important to ensure ongoing care of the patient and to agree on an appropriate tapering schedule and follow-up plan so that patient and provider goals and expectations are clear and realistic. When opioid analgesics are being discontinued due to a suspected substance use disorder, evaluate and treat the patient, or refer for evaluation and treatment of the substance use disorder. Treatment should include evidence-based approaches, such as medication assisted treatment of opioid use disorder. Complex patients with co-morbid pain and substance use disorders may benefit from referral to a specialist. There are no standard opioid tapering schedules that are suitable for all patients. Good clinical practice dictates a patient-specific plan to taper the dose of the opioid gradually. For patients on Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. Patients who have been taking opioids for briefer periods of time may tolerate a more rapid taper. It may be necessary to provide the patient with lower dosage strengths to accomplish a successful taper. Reassess the patient frequently to manage pain and withdrawal symptoms, should they emerge. Common withdrawal symptoms include restlessness, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, yawning, perspiration, chills, myalgia, and mydriasis. Other signs and symptoms also may develop, including irritability, anxiety, backache, joint pain, weakness, abdominal cramps, insomnia, nausea, anorexia, vomiting, diarrhea, or increased blood pressure, respiratory rate, or heart rate. If withdrawal symptoms arise, it may be necessary to pause the taper for a period of time or raise the dose of the opioid analgesic to the previous dose, and then proceed with a slower taper. In addition, evaluate patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for an extended period of time, and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [ see WARNINGS/Withdrawal , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablet sublingually as a single daily dose. ( 2.1 ) Strongly consider prescribing naloxone at the time buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablet is initiated or renewed because patients being treated for opioid use disorder have the potential for relapse, putting them at risk for opioid overdose. ( 2.2 ) To avoid precipitating withdrawal, induction with buprenorphine sublingual tablets should be undertaken when objective and clear signs of withdrawal are evident. After induction, doses of buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets should be progressively adjusted to a level that holds the patient in treatment and suppresses opioid withdrawal signs and symptoms ( 2.3 ) The recommended target dosage of buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablet for maintenance is 16/4 mg. ( 2.3 ) Administer buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets as directed in the Full Prescribing Information. ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) When discontinuing treatment, gradually taper to avoid signs and symptoms of withdrawal. ( 2.7 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information Buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablet is administered sublingually as a single daily dose. Buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets should be used in patients who have been initially inducted using buprenorphine sublingual tablets. Medication should be prescribed in consideration of the frequency of visits. Provision of multiple refills is not advised early in treatment or without appropriate patient follow-up visits. 2.2 Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver. Because patients being treated for opioid use disorder have the potential for relapse, putting them at risk for opioid overdose, strongly consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose, both when initiating and renewing treatment with buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets. Also consider prescribing naloxone if the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or opioid overdose [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Advise patients and caregivers that naloxone may also be administered for a known or suspected overdose with buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets itself. Higher than normal doses and repeated administration of naloxone may be necessary due to the long duration of action of buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets and its affinity for the mu‐opioid receptor [see Overdosage (10) ]. Inform patients and caregivers of their options for obtaining naloxone as permitted by individual state naloxone dispensing and prescribing requirements or guidelines (e.g., by prescription, directly from a pharmacist, or as part of a community‐based program) [see Patient Counseling Information (17) ]. 2.3 Maintenance The dosage of buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablet should be progressively adjusted in increments/decrements of 2 mg/0.5 mg or 4 mg/1 mg buprenorphine/naloxone to a level that holds the patient in treatment and suppresses opioid withdrawal signs and symptoms. The maintenance dose of buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablet is generally in the range of 4 mg/1 mg buprenorphine/naloxone to 24 mg/6 mg buprenorphine/naloxone per day depending on the individual patient. The recommended target dosage of buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets is 16 mg/4 mg buprenorphine/naloxone/day as a single daily dose. Dosages higher than 24 mg/6 mg have not been demonstrated to provide any clinical advantage. When determining the prescription quantity for unsupervised administration, consider the patient's level of stability, the security of his or her home situation, and other factors likely to affect the ability to manage supplies of take-home medication. There is no maximum recommended duration of maintenance treatment. Patients may require treatment indefinitely and should continue for as long as patients are benefiting and the use of buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets contributes to the intended treatment goals. 2.4 Method of Administration Buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets must be administered whole. Do not cut, chew, or swallow buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets. Advise patients not to eat or drink anything until the tablet is completely dissolved. Buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablet should be placed under the tongue until it is dissolved. For doses requiring the use of more than two tablets, patients are advised to either place all the tablets at once or alternatively (if they cannot fit in more than two tablets comfortably), place two tablets at a time under the tongue. Either way, the patients should continue to hold the tablets under the tongue until they dissolve; swallowing the tablets reduces the bioavailability of the drug. To ensure consistency in bioavailability, patients should follow the same manner of dosing with continued use of the product. Proper administration technique should be demonstrated to the patient. Advise patients to do the following after the product has completely dissolved in the oral mucosa: take a sip of water, swish gently around the teeth and gums, and swallow. Advise patients to wait for at least one hour after taking buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets before brushing teeth [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13 , Postmarketing Experience (6.2) , Information for Patients (17) , and the Medication Guide ]. 2.5 Clinical Supervision Treatment should be initiated with supervised administration, progressing to unsupervised administration as the patient's clinical stability permits. Buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets are subject to diversion and abuse. Ideally patients should be seen at reasonable intervals (e.g., at least weekly during the first month of treatment) based upon the individual circumstances of the patient. Periodic assessment is necessary to determine compliance with the dosing regimen, effectiveness of the treatment plan, and overall patient progress. Once a stable dosage has been achieved and patient assessment (e.g., urine drug screening) does not indicate illicit drug use, less frequent follow-up visits may be appropriate. A once-monthly visit schedule may be reasonable for patients on a stable dosage of medication who are making progress toward their treatment objectives. Continuation or modification of pharmacotherapy should be based on the healthcare provider's evaluation of treatment outcomes and objectives such as: Absence of medication toxicity Absence of medical or behavioral adverse effects Responsible handling of medications by the patient Patient's compliance with all elements of the treatment plan (including recovery-oriented activities, psychotherapy, and/or other psychosocial modalities) Abstinence from illicit drug use (including problematic alcohol and/or benzodiazepine use) If treatment goals are not being achieved, the healthcare provider should re-evaluate the appropriateness of continuing the current treatment. 2.6 Unstable Patients Healthcare providers will need to decide when they cannot appropriately provide further management for particular patients. For example, some patients may be abusing or dependent on various drugs, or unresponsive to psychosocial intervention such that the healthcare provider does not feel that he/she has the expertise to manage the patient. In such cases, the healthcare provider may want to assess whether to refer the patient to a specialist or more intensive behavioral treatment environment. Decisions should be based on a treatment plan established and agreed upon with the patient at the beginning of treatment. Patients who continue to misuse, abuse, or divert buprenorphine products or other opioids should be provided with, or referred to, more intensive and structured treatment. 2.7 Discontinuing Treatment The decision to discontinue therapy with buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets after a period of maintenance should be made as part of a comprehensive treatment plan. Advise patients of the potential to relapse to illicit drug use following discontinuation of opioid agonist/partial agonist medication-assisted treatment. Taper patients to reduce the occurrence of withdrawal signs and symptoms [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . 2.8 Switching between Buprenorphine and Naloxone Sublingual Film and Buprenorphine and Naloxone Sublingual Tablets Patients being switched between buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets and buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual film should be started on the same dosage as the previously administered product. However, dosage adjustments may be necessary when switching between products. Because of the potentially greater relative bioavailability of buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual film compared to buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets, patients switching from buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets to buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual film should be monitored for over-medication. Those switching from buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual film to buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets should be monitored for withdrawal or other indications of under dosing. In clinical studies, pharmacokinetics of buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual film was similar to the respective dosage strengths of buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets; although not all doses and dose combinations met bioequivalence criteria. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray is for intranasal use only. ( 2.1 ) • Seek emergency medical care immediately after use. ( 2.1 ) • Administration of a single spray of Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray intranasally into one nostril. ( 2.2 ) • Administer additional doses of Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray, using a new nasal spray with each dose, if the patient does not respond or responds and then relapses into respiratory depression, additional doses of Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray may be given every 2 to 3 minutes until emergency medical assistance arrives. ( 2.2 ) • Additional supportive and/or resuscitative measures may be helpful while awaiting emergency medical assistance. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray is for intranasal use only. No additional device assembly is required. Because treatment of suspected opioid overdose must be performed by someone other than the patient, instruct the prescription recipient to inform those around them about the presence of Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray and the Instructions for Use . Instruct the patient or caregiver to read the Instructions for Use at the time they receive a prescription for Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray. Emphasize the following instructions to the patient or caregiver: • Administer Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray as quickly as possible because prolonged respiratory depression may result in damage to the central nervous system or death. Since the duration of action of most opioids exceeds that of naloxone hydrochloride and the suspected opioid overdose may occur outside of supervised medical settings, seek immediate emergency medical assistance, keep the patient under continued surveillance until emergency personnel arrive, and administer repeated doses of Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray, as necessary. Always seek emergency medical assistance in the event of a suspected, potentially life-threatening opioid emergency after administration of the first dose of Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray. • Additional doses of Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray may be required until emergency medical assistance becomes available. • Do not attempt to reuse Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray. Each Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray contains a single dose of naloxone and cannot be reused. • Re-administer Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray, using a new nasal spray, every 2 to 3 minutes if the patient does not respond or responds and then relapses into respiratory depression. • Administer Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray in alternate nostrils with each dose. • Administer Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray according to the printed instructions on the device label and the Instructions for Use . • Place the patient in the supine position. Prior to administration, be sure the device nozzle is inserted in either nostril of the patient, and provide support to the back of the neck to allow the head to tilt back. Do not prime or test the device prior to administration. • To administer the dose, press firmly on the device plunger. • Remove the device nozzle from the nostril after use. • Turn patient on their side as shown in the Instructions for Use and call for emergency medical assistance immediately after administration of the first dose of Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray. 2.2 Dosing in Adults and Pediatric Patients Initial Dosing The recommended initial dose of Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray in adults and pediatric patients is one spray delivered by intranasal administration into one nostril. Repeat Dosing Seek emergency medical assistance as soon as possible after administering the first dose of Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray. The requirement for repeat doses of Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray depends upon the amount, type, and route of administration of the opioid being antagonized. Administer Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray in alternate nostrils with each dose. If the patient responds to Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray and relapses back into respiratory depression before emergency assistance arrives, administer an additional dose of Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray using a new Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray and continue surveillance of the patient. If the desired response is not obtained after 2 or 3 minutes, administer an additional dose of Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray using a new Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray. If there is still no response and additional doses are available, administer additional doses of Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray every 2 to 3 minutes using a new Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray with each dose until emergency medical assistance arrives. Additional supportive and/or resuscitative measures may be helpful while awaiting emergency medical assistance. 2.3 Dosing Modifications due to Partial Agonists or Mixed Agonist/Antagonists Reversal of respiratory depression by partial agonists or mixed agonist/antagonists, such as buprenorphine and pentazocine, may be incomplete and require higher doses of naloxone hydrochloride or repeated administration of Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray using a new nasal spray [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Dosage and Administration Naloxone Hydrochloride Injection, may be administered intravenously, intramuscularly, or subcutaneously. The most rapid onset of action is achieved by intravenous administration and it is recommended in emergency situations. Since the duration of action of some opioids may exceed that of naloxone, the patient should be kept under continued surveillance. Repeated doses of naloxone should be administered, as necessary. Intravenous Infusion: Naloxone Hydrochloride Injection, may be diluted for intravenous infusion in 0.9% sodium chloride injection or 5% dextrose injection. The addition of 2 mg of naloxone hydrochloride in 500 mL of either solution provides a concentration of 0.004 mg/mL. Mixtures should be used within 24 hours. After 24 hours, the remaining unused solution must be discarded. The rate of administration should be titrated in accordance with the patient's response. Naloxone Hydrochloride Injection, should not be mixed with preparations containing bisulfite, metabisulfite, long-chain or high molecular weight anions, or any solution having an alkaline pH. No drug or chemical agent should be added to Naloxone Hydrochloride Injection, unless its effect on the chemical and physical stability of the solution has first been established. General Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Do not administer unless solution is clear and container is undamaged. Usage in Adults: Opioid Overdose—Known or Suspected: An initial dose of 0.4 mg to 2 mg of naloxone hydrochloride may be administered intravenously. If the desired degree of counteraction and improvement in respiratory functions are not obtained, it may be repeated at two to three minute intervals. If no response is observed after 10 mg of naloxone hydrochloride have been administered, the diagnosis of opioid-induced or partial opioid-induced toxicity should be questioned. Intramuscular or subcutaneous administration may be necessary if the intravenous route is not available Postoperative Opioid Depression: For the partial reversal of opioid depression following the use of opioids during surgery, smaller doses of naloxone hydrochloride are usually sufficient. The dose of naloxone should be titrated according to the patient's response. For the initial reversal of respiratory depression, naloxone hydrochloride should be injected in increments of 0.1 to 0.2 mg intravenously at two to three minute intervals to the desired degree of reversal, i.e., adequate ventilation and alertness without significant pain or discomfort. Larger than necessary dosage of naloxone may result in significant reversal of analgesia and increase in blood pressure. Similarly, too rapid reversal may induce nausea, vomiting, sweating or circulatory stress. Repeat doses of naloxone may be required within one to two hour intervals depending upon the amount, type (i.e., short or long acting) and time interval since last administration of an opioid. Supplemental intramuscular doses have been shown to produce a longer lasting effect. Septic Shock: The optimal dosage of Naloxone or duration of therapy for the treatment of hypotension in septic shock patients has not been established (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). Usage in Pediatric Population: Opioid Overdose – Known or Suspected: The usual initial dose in children is 0.01 mg/kg body weight given intravenously. If this dose does not result in the desired degree of clinical improvement, a subsequent dose of 0.1 mg/kg body weight may be administered. If an intravenous route of administration is not available, naloxone may be administered intramuscularly or subcutaneously in divided doses. If necessary, naloxone hydrochloride injection can be diluted with sterile water for injection. Postoperative Opioid Depression: Follow the recommendations and cautions under Adult Postoperative Opioid Depression. For the initial reversal of respiratory depression naloxone hydrochloride should be injected in increments of 0.005 mg to 0.01 mg intravenously at two to three minute intervals to the desired degree of reversal. Opioid-Induced Depression: The usual initial dose is 0.01 mg/kg body weight administered intravenously, intramuscularly or subcutaneously. This dose may be repeated in accordance with adult administration guidelines for postoperative opioid depression. DIRECTIONS For opioid emergencies, call 911. For questions on NARCAN, call 1-844-4NARCAN (1-844-462-7226) or go to WWW.NARCAN.COM . ©2023 Emergent Devices Inc. EMERGENT® and NARCAN® are registered trademarks of Emergent BioSolutions Inc, or its subsidiaries. Other Information • store at room temperature or refrigerated, between 2°C to 25°C (36°F to 77°F) • do not freeze • avoid excessive heat above 40°C (104°F) • protect from light • the product is packaged in individually-sealed blisters. Do not use if the blister is open or torn, or if the device appears damaged. Directions Directions 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • NARCAN Nasal Spray is for intranasal use only. ( 2.1 ) • Administration of a single spray of NARCAN Nasal Spray intranasally into one nostril. ( 2.2 ) • Administer additional doses of NARCAN Nasal Spray, using a new nasal spray with each dose, if the patient does not respond or responds and then relapses into respiratory depression, additional doses of NARCAN Nasal Spray may be given every 2 to 3 minutes until emergency medical assistance arrives. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions NARCAN Nasal Spray is for intranasal use only. Because treatment of suspected opioid overdose must be performed by someone other than the patient, instruct the prescription recipient to inform those around them about the presence of NARCAN Nasal Spray and the Instructions for Use. Instruct the patient or caregiver to read the Instructions for Use at the time they receive a prescription for NARCAN Nasal Spray. Emphasize the following instructions to the patient or caregiver: • Administer NARCAN Nasal Spray as quickly as possible because prolonged respiratory depression may result in damage to the central nervous system or death. Since the duration of action of most opioids exceeds that of naloxone hydrochloride and the suspected opioid overdose may occur outside of supervised medical settings, seek immediate emergency medical assistance, keep the patient under continued surveillance until emergency personnel arrive, and administer repeated doses of NARCAN Nasal Spray, as necessary. Always seek emergency medical assistance in the event of a suspected, potentially life-threatening opioid emergency after administration of the first dose of NARCAN Nasal Spray. • Additional doses of NARCAN Nasal Spray may be required until emergency medical assistance becomes available. • Do not attempt to reuse NARCAN Nasal Spray. Each NARCAN Nasal Spray contains a single dose of naloxone and cannot be reused. • Re-administer NARCAN Nasal Spray, using a new nasal spray, every 2 to 3 minutes if the patient does not respond or responds and then relapses into respiratory depression. • Administer NARCAN Nasal Spray in alternate nostrils with each dose. • Administer NARCAN Nasal Spray according to the printed instructions on the device label and the Instructions for Use . • To administer the dose press firmly on the device plunger. • Turn patient on their side as shown in the Instructions for Use and call for emergency medical assistance immediately after administration of the first dose of NARCAN Nasal Spray. 2.2 Dosing in Adults and Pediatric Patients Initial Dosing The recommended initial dose of NARCAN Nasal Spray in adults and pediatric patients is one spray delivered by intranasal administration into one nostril. Repeat Dosing Seek emergency medical assistance as soon as possible after administering the first dose of NARCAN Nasal Spray. The requirement for repeat doses of NARCAN Nasal Spray depends upon the amount, type, and route of administration of the opioid being antagonized. Administer NARCAN Nasal Spray in alternate nostrils with each dose. If the patient responds to NARCAN Nasal Spray and relapses back into respiratory depression before emergency assistance arrives, administer an additional dose of NARCAN Nasal Spray using a new NARCAN Nasal Spray and continue surveillance of the patient. If the desired response is not obtained after 2 or 3 minutes, administer an additional dose of NARCAN Nasal Spray using a new NARCAN Nasal Spray. If there is still no response and additional doses are available, administer additional doses of NARCAN Nasal Spray every 2 to 3 minutes using a new NARCAN Nasal Spray with each dose until emergency medical assistance arrives. 2.3 Dosing Modifications due to Partial Agonists or Mixed Agonist/Antagonists Reversal of respiratory depression by partial agonists or mixed agonist/antagonists, such as buprenorphine and pentazocine, may be incomplete and require higher doses of naloxone hydrochloride or repeated administration of NARCAN Nasal Spray using a new nasal spray [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Directions Step 1: CHECK if you suspect an overdose CHECK for a suspected overdose : the person will not wake up or is very sleepy or not breathing well yell “Wake up!” shake the person gently if the person is not awake, go to Step 2 Step 2: GIVE 1st dose in the nose HOLD the nasal spray device with your thumb on the bottom of the plunger INSERT the nozzle into either NOSTRIL PRESS the plunger firmly to give the 1st dose 1 nasal spray device contains 1 dose Step 3: CALL 911 CALL 911 immediately after giving the 1st dose Step 4: WATCH & GIVE WAIT 2 to 3 minutes after the 1st dose to give the medicine time to work if the person wakes up : Go to Step 5 if the person does not wake up : CONTINUE TO GIVE doses every 2 to 3 minutes until the person wakes up it is safe to keep giving doses Step 5: STAY STAY until ambulance arrives: even if the person wakes up GIVE another dose if the person becomes very sleepy again You may need to give all the doses in the pack 1 check 2 give 3 call step 4 5 stay 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer Buprenorphine and Naloxone Sublingual Tablets sublingually as a single daily dose. ( 2.1 ) Strongly consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent (e.g., naloxone, nalmefene) at the time Buprenorphine and Naloxone Sublingual Tablets are initiated or renewed because patients being treated for opioid use disorder have the potential for relapse, putting them at risk for opioid overdose. After induction, doses of Buprenorphine and Naloxone Sublingual Tablets should be progressively adjusted to a level that holds the patient in treatment and suppresses opioid withdrawal signs and symptoms. ( 2.3 ) The maintenance dose of Buprenorphine and Naloxone Sublingual Tablets is generally in the range of 4 mg/1 mg to 24 mg/6 mg per day and should be based on clinical response. ( 2.7 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information Buprenorphine and Naloxone Sublingual Tablets are administered sublingually as a single daily dose. 2.2 Patient Access to an Opioid Overdose Reversal Agent for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Inform patients and caregivers about opioid overdose reversal agents (e.g., naloxone, nalmefene) and discuss the importance of having access to an opioid overdose reversal agent. Because patients being treated for opioid use disorder have the potential for relapse, putting them at risk for opioid overdose, strongly consider recommending or prescribing an overdose reversal agent for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose, both when initiating and renewing treatment with Buprenorphine and Naloxone Sublingual Tablets. Also consider recommending or prescribing such an agent if the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or opioid overdose [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Discuss the options for obtaining an opioid overdose reversal agent (e.g., prescription, over-the-counter, or as part of a community-based program) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Advise patients and caregivers that opioid overdose reversal agents, such as naloxone or nalmefene, may also be administered for a known or suspected overdose with Buprenorphine and Naloxone Sublingual Tablets itself. Higher than normal doses and repeated administration of an opioid overdose reversal agent may be necessary due to the long duration of action of Buprenorphine and Naloxone Sublingual Tablets and its affinity for the mu opioid receptor [see Overdosage (10) ] . 2.3 Maintenance The dosage of Buprenorphine and Naloxone Sublingual Tablets should be progressively adjusted in increments/decrements of 2 mg/0.5 mg or 4 mg/1 mg buprenorphine/naloxone to a level that holds the patient in treatment and suppresses opioid withdrawal signs and symptoms. After treatment induction to the recommended dose of 16 mg/4 mg buprenorphine/naloxone, dosing should be further adjusted based on the individual patient and clinical response. The maintenance dose of Buprenorphine and Naloxone Sublingual Tablets is generally in the range of 4 mg/1 mg buprenorphine/naloxone to 24 mg/6 mg buprenorphine/naloxone per day Dosages higher than 24 mg/6 mg daily have not been investigated in randomized clinical trials but may be appropriate for some patients. When determining the prescription quantity for unsupervised administration, consider the patient’s level of stability, the security of his or her home situation, and other factors likely to affect the ability to manage supplies of take-home medication. Buprenorphine and Naloxone Sublingual Tablets should be placed under the tongue until it is dissolved. Advise patients to wait for at least one hour after taking Buprenorphine and Naloxone Sublingual Tablets before brushing teeth [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) , Postmarketing Experience (6.2) , Information for Patients (17) , and Medication Guide ]. 2.5 Clinical Supervision Treatment should be initiated with supervised administration, progressing to unsupervised administration as the patient’s clinical stability permits. Continuation or modification of pharmacotherapy should be based on the healthcare provider’s evaluation of treatment outcomes and objectives such as: Absence of medication toxicity Absence of medical or behavioral adverse effects Responsible handling of medications by the patient Patient’s compliance with all elements of the treatment plan (including recovery-oriented activities, psychotherapy, and/or other psychosocial modalities) Abstinence from illicit drug use (including problematic alcohol and/or benzodiazepine use) If treatment goals are not being achieved, the healthcare provider should re-evaluate the appropriateness of continuing the current treatment. In clinical studies, pharmacokinetics of buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual film was similar to the respective dosage strengths of Buprenorphine and Naloxone Sublingual Tablets, although not all doses and dose combinations met bioequivalence criteria. Step 1: CHECK if you suspect an overdose: • CHECK for a suspected overdose: the person will not wake up or is very sleepy or not breathing well • yell “Wake up!” • shake the person gently • if the person is not awake, go to Step 2 Step 2: GIVE 1st dose in the nose • HOLD the nasal spray device with your thumb on the bottom of the plunger • INSERT the nozzle into either NOSTRIL • PRESS the plunger firmly to give the 1st dose • 1 nasal spray device contains 1 dose Step 3: CALL • CALL 911immediately after giving the 1st dose Step 4: WATCH & GIVE • WAIT2-3 minutes after the 1st dose to give the medicine time to work • if the person wakes up: Go to Step 5 • if the person does not wake up: • CONTINUE TO GIVE doses every 2-3 minutes until the person wakes up • it is safe to keep giving doses Step 5: STAY • STAY until ambulance arrives: even if the person wakes up • GIVE another dose if the person becomes very sleepy again • You may need to give all the doses in the pack
Warnings: WARNINGS Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets contain pentazocine, a Schedule IV controlled substance. As an opioid, Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets expose users to the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. Although the risk of addiction in any individual is unknown, it can occur in patients appropriately prescribed Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets. Addiction can occur at recommended dosages and if the drug is misused or abused. The risk of opioid-related overdose or overdose-related death is increased with higher opioid doses, and this risk persists over the course of therapy. In postmarketing studies, addiction, abuse, misuse, and fatal and non-fatal opioid overdose were observed in patients with long-term opioid use [see ADVERSE REACTIONS; Postmarketing Experience ]. Assess each patient's risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse prior to prescribing Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets, and reassess all patients receiving Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets for the development of these behaviors and conditions. Risks are increased in patients with a personal or family history of substance abuse (including drug or alcohol abuse or addiction) or mental illness (e.g., major depression). The potential for these risks should not, however, prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient. Patients at increased risk may be prescribed opioids such as Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets, but use in such patients necessitates intensive counseling about the risks and proper use of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets along with frequent reevaluation for signs of addiction, abuse, and misuse. Consider prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see WARNINGS, DOSAGE AND ADMINSTRATION ]. Opioids are sought for nonmedical use and are subject to diversion from legitimate prescribed use. Consider these risks when prescribing or dispensing Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets. Strategies to reduce these risks include prescribing the drug in the smallest appropriate quantity and advising the patient on careful storage of the drug during the course of treatment and proper disposal of unused drug. Contact local state professional licensing board or state-controlled substances authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product. Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression has been reported with the use of opioids, even when used as recommended. Respiratory depression, if not immediately recognized and treated, may lead to respiratory arrest and death. Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid antagonists, depending on the patient's clinical status [see OVERDOSAGE ]. Carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) retention from opioid-induced respiratory depression can exacerbate the sedating effects of opioids. While serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression can occur at any time during the use of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets, the risk is greatest during the initiation of therapy or following a dosage increase. To reduce the risk of respiratory depression, proper dosing and titration of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets are essential [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ]. Overestimating the Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets dosage when converting patients from another opioid product can result in a fatal overdose with the first dose. Accidental ingestion of even one dose of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets, especially by children, can result in respiratory depression and death due to an overdose of pentazocine. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help right away in the event of a known or suspected overdose [see PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients ] . Patient Access to an Opioid Overdose Reversal Agent for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Inform patients and caregivers about opioid overdose reversal agents (e.g., naloxone, nalmefene). Discuss the importance of having access to an opioid overdose reversal agent, especially if the patient has risk factors for overdose (e.g., concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose) or if there are household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the management of pain in any patient [see WARNINGS]. Discuss the options for obtaining an opioid overdose reversal agent (e.g., prescription, over-the-counter, or as part of a community-based program). There are important differences among the opioid overdose reversal agents, such as route of administration, product strength, approved patient age range, and pharmacokinetics. Be familiar with these differences, as outlined in the approved labeling for those products, prior to recommending or prescribing such an agent. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression, and how to use an opioid overdose reversal agent for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help, even if an opioid overdose reversal agent is administered [see WARNINGS, OVERDOSAGE ]. Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets with benzodiazepines and/or other CNS depressants, including alcohol (e.g., non- benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, gabapentinoids, other opioids). Because of these risks, reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Observational studies have demonstrated that concomitant use of opioid analgesics and benzodiazepines increases the risk of drug-related mortality compared to use of opioid analgesics alone. Because of similar pharmacological properties, it is reasonable to expect similar risk with the concomitant use of other CNS depressant drugs with opioid analgesics [see PRECAUTIONS, DRUG INTERACTIONS ] . If the decision is made to prescribe a benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant concomitantly with an opioid analgesic, prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use. In patients already receiving an opioid analgesic, prescribe a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant than indicated in the absence of an opioid, and titrate based on clinical response. If an opioid analgesic is initiated in a patient already taking a benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant, prescribe a lower initial dose of the opioid analgesic, and titrate based on clinical response. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction, educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent opioid overdose [see WARNINGS, DOSAGE AND ADMISTRATION, and OVERDOSE]. Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets is used with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants (including alcohol and illicit drugs). Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use of the benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant have been determined. Screen patients for risk of substance use disorders, including opioid abuse and misuse, and warn them of the risk for overdose and death associated with the use of additional CNS depressants including alcohol and illicit drugs [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients, Drug Interactions ]. Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome NOWS Use of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets for an extended period of time during pregnancy can result in withdrawal in the neonate. Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, unlike opioid withdrawal syndrome in adults, may be life-threatening if not recognized and treated, and requires management according to protocols developed by neonatology experts. Observe newborns for signs of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and manage accordingly. Advise pregnant women using opioids for an extended period of time of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients, Pregnancy ]. Opioid Analgesic Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) To ensure that the benefits of opioid analgesics outweigh the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has required a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) for these products. Under the requirements of the REMS, drug companies with approved opioid analgesic products must make REMS-compliant education programs available to healthcare providers. Healthcare providers are strongly encouraged to do all of the following: Complete a REMS-compliant education program offered by an accredited provider of continuing education (CE) or another education program that includes all the elements of the FDA Education Blueprint for Health Care Providers Involved in the Management or Support of Patients with Pain. Discuss the safe use, serious risks, and proper storage and disposal of opioid analgesics with patients and/or their caregivers every time these medicines are prescribed. The Patient Counseling Guide (PCG) can be obtained at this link: www.fda.gov/OpioidAnalgesicREMSPCG. Emphasize to patients and their caregivers the importance of reading the Medication Guide that they will receive from their pharmacist every time an opioid analgesic is dispensed to them. Consider using other tools to improve patient, household, and community safety, such as patient-prescriber agreements that reinforce patient-prescriber responsibilities. To obtain further information on the opioid analgesic REMS and for a list of accredited REMS CME/CE, call 800-503-0784, or log on to www.opioidanalgesicrems.com. The FDA Blueprint can be found at www.fda.gov/OpioidAnalgesicREMSBlueprint . Opioid Induced Hyperalgesia and Allodynia Opioid-Induced Hyperalgesia (OIH) occurs when an opioid analgesic paradoxically causes an increase in pain, or an increase in sensitivity to pain. This condition differs from tolerance, which is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect [see Dependence ]. Symptoms of OIH include (but may not be limited to) increased levels of pain upon opioid dosage increase, decreased levels of pain upon opioid dosage decrease, or pain from ordinarily non-painful stimuli (allodynia). These symptoms may suggest OIH only if there is no evidence of underlying disease progression, opioid tolerance, opioid withdrawal, or addictive behavior. Cases of OIH have been reported, both with short-term and longer-term use of opioid analgesics. Though the mechanism of OIH is not fully understood, multiple biochemical pathways have been implicated. Medical literature suggests a strong biologic plausibility between opioid analgesics and OIH and allodynia. If a patient is suspected to be experiencing OIH, carefully consider appropriately decreasing the dose of the current opioid analgesic, or opioid rotation (safely switching the patient to a different opioid moiety) [see Dosage and Administration , Warning ]. Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression in Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease or in Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients The use of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets in patients with acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment is contraindicated. Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease: Pentazocine and naloxone-treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea, even at recommended dosages of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets [see WARNINGS ] . Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients: Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients because they may have altered pharmacokinetics or altered clearance compared to younger, healthier patients [see WARNINGS ] . Regularly evaluate patients, particularly when initiating and titrating Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets and when Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets are given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration [see WARNINGS ] . Alternatively, consider the use of non-opioid analgesics in these patients. Adrenal Insufficiency Cases of adrenal insufficiency have been reported with opioid use, more often following greater than 1 month of use. Presentation of adrenal insufficiency may include non-specific symptoms and signs including nausea, vomiting, anorexia, fatigue, weakness, dizziness, and low blood pressure. If adrenal insufficiency is suspected, confirm the diagnosis with diagnostic testing as soon as possible. If adrenal insufficiency is diagnosed, treat with physiologic replacement doses of corticosteroids. Wean the patient off of the opioid to allow adrenal function to recover and continue corticosteroid treatment until adrenal function recovers. Other opioids may be tried as some cases reported use of a different opioid without recurrence of adrenal insufficiency. The information available does not identify any particular opioids as being more likely to be associated with adrenal insufficiency. Severe Hypotension Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets may cause severe hypotension including orthostatic hypotension and syncope in ambulatory patients. There is increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs (e.g., phenothiazines or general anesthetics) [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients ] . Regularly evaluate these patients for signs of hypotension after initiating or titrating the dosage of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets. In patients with circulatory shock, Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets may cause vasodilation that can further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. Avoid the use of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets in patients with circulatory shock. Risks of Use in Patients with Increased Intracranial Pressure, Brain Tumors, Head Injury, or Impaired Consciousness In patients who may be susceptible to the intracranial effects of CO2 retention (e.g., those with evidence of increased intracranial pressure or brain tumors), Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets may reduce respiratory drive, and the resultant CO2 retention can further increase intracranial pressure. Regularly evaluate such patients for signs of sedation and respiratory depression, particularly when initiating therapy with Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets. Opioids may also obscure the clinical course in a patient with a head injury. Avoid the use of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets in patients with impaired consciousness or coma. Risk of Gastrointestinal Complications Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets are contraindicated in patients with known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. The administration of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets or other opioids may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions. Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi. Opioids may cause increases in serum amylase. Monitor patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis, for worsening symptoms. Cases of opioid-induced esophageal dysfunction (OIED) have been reported in patients taking opioids. The risk of OIED may increase as the dose and/or duration of opioids increases. Regularly evaluate patients for signs and symptoms of OIED (e.g., dysphagia, regurgitation, non-cardiac chest pain), and if necessary, adjust opioid therapy as clinically appropriate. Increased Risk of Seizures in Patients with Seizure Disorders The pentazocine in Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets may increase the frequency of seizures in patients with seizure disorders, and may increase the risk of seizures occurring in other clinical settings associated with seizures. Regularly evaluate patients with a history of seizure disorders for worsened seizure control during Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets therapy. Withdrawal Do not abruptly discontinue Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids. When discontinuing Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets in a physically dependent patient, gradually taper the dosage. Rapid tapering of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids may lead to a withdrawal syndrome and return of pain [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. Additionally, the use of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets, a mixed agonist/antagonist opioid analgesic, in patients who are receiving a full opioid agonist analgesic may reduce the analgesic effect and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Avoid concomitant use of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets with a full opioid agonist analgesic Risks of Driving and Operating Machinery Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets may impair the mental or physical abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving a car or operating machinery. Warn patients not to drive or operate dangerous machinery unless they are tolerant to the effects of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets and know how they will react to the medication [see Patient Counseling Information ] . Acute CNS Manifestations Patients receiving therapeutic doses of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets have experienced hallucinations (usually visual), disorientation, and confusion which have cleared spontaneously within a period of hours. The mechanism of this reaction is not known. Such patients should be very closely observed and vital signs checked. If the drug is reinstituted, it should be done with caution since these acute CNS manifestations may recur. The amount of naloxone present in Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets (0.5 mg per tablet) has no action when taken orally and will not interfere with the pharmacologic action of pentazocine. However, this amount of naloxone given by injection has profound antagonistic action to narcotic analgesics. Severe, even lethal, consequences may result from misuse of tablets by injection either alone or in combination with other substances, such as pulmonary emboli, vascular occlusion, ulceration and abscesses, and withdrawal symptoms in narcotic dependent individuals. Warnings Drug Dependence Naloxone hydrochloride injection should be administered cautiously to persons, including newborns of mothers, who are known or suspected to be physically dependent on opioids. In such cases an abrupt and complete reversal of opioid effects may precipitate an acute withdrawal syndrome. The signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal in a patient physically dependent on opioids may include, but are not limited to, the following: body aches, diarrhea, tachycardia, fever, runny nose, sneezing, piloerection, sweating, yawning, nausea or vomiting, nervousness, restlessness or irritability, shivering or trembling, abdominal cramps, weakness, and increased blood pressure. In the neonate, opioid withdrawal may also include: convulsions, excessive crying, and hyperactive reflexes. Repeat Administration The patient who has satisfactorily responded to naloxone should be kept under continued surveillance and repeated doses of naloxone should be administered, as necessary, since the duration of action of some opioids may exceed that of naloxone. Respiratory Depression Due to Other Drugs Naloxone is not effective against respiratory depression due to non-opioid drugs and in the management of acute toxicity caused by levopropoxyphene. Reversal of respiratory depression by partial agonists or mixed agonist/antagonists, such as buprenorphine and pentazocine, may be incomplete or require higher doses of naloxone. If an incomplete response occurs, respirations should be mechanically assisted as clinically indicated. When using this product some people may experience symptoms when they wake up, such as, shaking, sweating, nausea, or feeling angry. This is to be expected. Warnings When using this product some people may experience symptoms when they wake up, such as shaking, sweating, nausea, or feeling angry. When using this product some people may experience symptoms when they wake up, such as shaking, sweating, nausea, or feeling angry.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see WARNINGS ]. Patients with known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see WARNINGS ] Patients with hypersensitivity to either pentazocine, naloxone, or any of the formulation excipients (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see WARNINGS ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablet is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to buprenorphine or naloxone as serious adverse reactions, including anaphylactic shock, have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . Hypersensitivity to buprenorphine or naloxone. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Naloxone HCl Nasal Spray is contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to naloxone hydrochloride or to any of the other ingredients. Hypersensitivity to naloxone hydrochloride. Contraindications Naloxone hydrochloride injection is contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to naloxone hydrochloride or to any of the other ingredients contained in the formulation. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS NARCAN Nasal Spray is contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to naloxone hydrochloride or to any of the other ingredients. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Buprenorphine and Naloxone Sublingual Tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to buprenorphine or naloxone as serious adverse reactions, including anaphylactic shock, have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] .
Interactions (label): DRUG INTERACTIONS Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants including alcohol, benzodiazepines and other sedative hypnotics, anxiolytics, and tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, and other opioids, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction, educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see WARNINGS, DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION]. Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue), has resulted in serotonin syndrome. [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients ]. If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) with Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets may cause CNS excitation and hypertension through their respective effects on catecholamines. Caution should therefore be observed in administering Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets to patients who are currently receiving MAOIs or who have received them within the preceding 14 days Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics such as butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, buprenorphine, may reduce the analgesic effect of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Avoid concomitant use of these drugs. Muscle Relaxants The Concomitant use of opioids and muscle relaxants may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Because respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected, decrease the dosage of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see WARNINGS, DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION]. Diuretics Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Evaluate patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed Anticholinergic Drugs The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Evaluate patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Tobacco Smoking tobacco could enhance the metabolic clearance rate of pentazocine reducing the clinical effectiveness of a standard dose of pentazocine. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Long-term animal studies have not been completed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of the combination or individual components of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets. Mutagenesis Studies to evaluate the mutagenic potential of the components of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets have not been conducted. Impairment of Fertility Studies in animals to evaluate the impact of Pentazocine and Naloxone Tablets on fertility have not been completed. The daily administration of 4 mg/kg to 20 mg/kg pentazocine subcutaneously to female rats during a 14 day pre-mating period and until the 13th day of pregnancy did not have any adverse effects on the fertility rate. Infertility Chronic Use of opioids for an extended period of time may cause reduced fertility in females and males of reproductive potential. It is not known whether these effects on fertility are reversible [see Adverse Reactions ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 3 Includes clinically significant drug interactions with buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets. Table 3. Clinically Significant Drug Interactions Benzodiazepines or other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effects, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, increases the risk of respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Intervention: Cessation of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants is preferred in most cases of concomitant use. In some cases, monitoring in a higher level of care for taper may be appropriate. In others, gradually tapering a patient off of a prescribed benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant or decreasing to the lowest effective dose may be appropriate. Before co-prescribing benzodiazepines for anxiety or insomnia, ensure that patients are appropriately diagnosed and consider alternative medications and non-pharmacologic treatments. [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3) ] . If concomitant use is warranted, strongly consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose, as is recommended for all patients in treatment for opioid use disorder [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Examples Alcohol, benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, and other opioids. Inhibitors of CYP3A4 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of buprenorphine and CYP3A4 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablet is achieved. After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the buprenorphine plasma concentration will decrease [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , potentially resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to buprenorphine. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Examples: Macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of buprenorphine and CYP3A4 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of buprenorphine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , potentially resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine. After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the buprenorphine plasma concentration will increase [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which could increase or prolong both therapeutic effects and adverse reactions and may cause serious respiratory depression. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablet dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablet dosage reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Examples: Rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin Antiretrovirals: Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) Clinical Impact: Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) are metabolized principally by CYP3A4. Efavirenz, nevirapine, and etravirine are known CYP3A inducers, whereas delavirdine is a CYP3A inhibitor. Significant pharmacokinetic interactions between NNRTIs (e.g., efavirenz and delavirdine) and buprenorphine have been shown in clinical studies, but these pharmacokinetic interactions did not result in any significant pharmacodynamic effects. Intervention: Patients who are on chronic buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablet treatment should have their dose monitored if NNRTIs are added to their treatment regimen. Examples: efavirenz, nevirapine, etravirine, delavirdine Antiretrovirals: Protease inhibitors (PIs) Clinical Impact: Studies have shown some antiretroviral protease inhibitors (PIs) with CYP3A4 inhibitory activity (nelfinavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, ritonavir) have little effect on buprenorphine pharmacokinetic and no significant pharmacodynamic effects. Other PIs with CYP3A4 inhibitory activity (atazanavir and atazanavir/ritonavir) resulted in elevated levels of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine, and patients in one study reported increased sedation. Symptoms of opioid excess have been found in post-marketing reports of patients receiving buprenorphine and atazanavir with and without ritonavir concomitantly. Intervention: Monitor patients taking buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets and atazanavir with and without ritonavir, and reduce dose of buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets if warranted. Examples: atazanavir, ritonavir Antiretrovirals: Nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) Clinical Impact: Nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) do not appear to induce or inhibit the P450 enzyme pathway, thus no interactions with buprenorphine are expected. Intervention: None Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Intervention: If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Examples: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma). Intervention: The use of buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Examples: phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid Muscle Relaxants Clinical Impact: Buprenorphine may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Intervention: Monitor patients receiving muscle relaxants and buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. . Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, strongly consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3) ]. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Anticholinergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase the risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets are used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Benzodiazepines: Use caution in prescribing buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets for patients receiving benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants and warn patients against concomitant self-administration/misuse. ( 7 ) CYP3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers: Monitor patients starting or ending CYP3A4 inhibitors or inducers for potential over- or under- dosing. ( 7 ) Antiretrovirals: Patients who are on chronic buprenorphine treatment should have their dose monitored if NNRTIs are added to their treatment regimen. Monitor patients taking buprenorphine and atazanavir with and without ritonavir, and reduce dose of buprenorphine if warranted. ( 7 ) Serotonergic Drugs: Concomitant use may result in serotonin syndrome. ( 7 ) Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Buprenorphine and Naloxone Sublingual Tablets Benzodiazepines or other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effects, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, increases the risk of respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Before co-prescribing benzodiazepines for anxiety or insomnia, ensure that patients are appropriately diagnosed and consider alternative medications and non-pharmacologic treatments [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3 )]. If concomitant use is warranted, strongly consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent, as is recommended for all patients on buprenorphine treatment for opioid use disorder [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, gabepentinoids (gabapentin or pregabalin), and other opioids, alcohol. Inhibitors of CYP3A4 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of buprenorphine and CYP3A4 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of buprenorphine, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of Buprenorphine and Naloxone Sublingual Tablets is achieved. Examples: Macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of buprenorphine and CYP3A4 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of buprenorphine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , potentially resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to buprenorphine. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the Buprenorphine and Naloxone Sublingual Tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider Buprenorphine and Naloxone Sublingual Tablets dosage reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Intervention: Patients who are on chronic Buprenorphine and Naloxone Sublingual Tablets treatment should have their dose monitored if NNRTIs are added to their treatment regimen. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, strongly consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent, as is recommended for all patients on buprenorphine treatment for opioid use disorder [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.3 )] . Examples: cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Benzodiazepines : Use caution in prescribing Buprenorphine and Naloxone Sublingual Tablets for patients receiving benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants and warn patients against concomitant self-administration/misuse. ( 7 ) CYP3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers : Monitor patients starting or ending CYP3A4 inhibitors or inducers for potential over- or under- dosing. ( 7 ) Antiretrovirals : Patients who are on chronic buprenorphine treatment should have their dose monitored if NNRTIs are added to their treatment regimen. ( 7 ) Serotonergic Drugs : Concomitant use may result in serotonin syndrome.

=== CIPROFLOXACIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ciprofloxacin Ophthalmic Solution is indicated for the treatment of infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms in the conditions listed below: Corneal Ulcers: Pseudomonas aeruginosa Serratia marcescens * Staphylococcus aureus Staphylococcus epidermidis Streptococcus pneumoniae Streptococcus (Viridans Group) * Conjunctivitis: Haemophilus influenzae Staphylococcus aureus Staphylococcus epidermidis Streptococcus pneumoniae *Efficacy for this organism was studied in fewer than 10 infections. INDICATIONS AND USAGE: CILOXAN ® (ciprofloxacin ophthalmic ointment) 0.3% is indicated for the treatment of bacterial conjunctivitis caused by susceptible strains of the microorganisms listed below: Gram-Positive: Staphylococcus aureus Staphylococcus epidermidis Streptococcus pneumoniae Streptococcus Viridans Group Gram-Negative: Haemophilus influenzae 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ciprofloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibacterial indicated in adults (18 years of age and older) with the following infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria and in pediatric patients where indicated: Skin and Skin Structure Infections ( 1.1 ) Bone and Joint Infections ( 1.2 ) Complicated Intra-Abdominal Infections ( 1.3 ) Infectious Diarrhea ( 1.4 ) Typhoid Fever (Enteric Fever) ( 1.5 ) Uncomplicated Cervical and Urethral Gonorrhea ( 1.6 ) Inhalational Anthrax post-exposure in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.7 ) Plague in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.8 ) Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis ( 1.9 ) Lower Respiratory Tract Infections ( 1.10 ) o Acute Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis Urinary Tract Infections ( 1.11 ) o Urinary Tract Infections (UTI) o Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis o Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis in Pediatric Patients Acute Sinusitis ( 1.12 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ciprofloxacin and other antibacterial drugs, ciprofloxacin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.13 ) 1.1 Skin and Skin Structure Infections Ciprofloxacin is indicated in adult patients for treatment of skin and skin structure infections caused by Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Enterobacter cloacae , Proteus mirabilis , Proteus vulgaris , Providencia stuartii , Morganella morganii , Citrobacter freundii , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus , methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis , or Streptococcus pyogenes . 1.2 Bone and Joint Infections Ciprofloxacin is indicated in adult patients for treatment of bone and joint infections caused by Enterobacter cloacae, Serratia marcescens, or Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 1.3 Complicated Intra-Abdominal Infections Ciprofloxacin is indicated in adult patients for treatment of complicated intra-abdominal infections (used in combination with metronidazole) caused by Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Proteus mirabilis, Klebsiella pneumoniae, or Bacteroides fragilis. 1.4 Infectious Diarrhea Ciprofloxacin is indicated in adult patients for treatment of infectious diarrhea caused by Escherichia coli (enterotoxigenic isolates), Campylobacter jejuni , Shigella boydii † , Shigella dysenteriae , Shigella flexneri or Shigella sonnei † when antibacterial therapy is indicated. † Although treatment of infections due to this organism in this organ system demonstrated a clinically significant outcome, efficacy was studied in fewer than 10 patients. 1.5 Typhoid Fever (Enteric Fever) Ciprofloxacin is indicated in adult patients for treatment of typhoid fever (enteric fever) caused by Salmonella typhi . The efficacy of ciprofloxacin in the eradication of the chronic typhoid carrier state has not been demonstrated. 1.6 Uncomplicated Cervical and Urethral Gonorrhea Ciprofloxacin is indicated in adult patients for treatment of uncomplicated cervical and urethral gonorrhea due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17) ]. 1.7 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) Ciprofloxacin is indicated in adults and pediatric patients from birth to 17 years of age for inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) to reduce the incidence or progression of disease following exposure to aerosolized Bacillus anthracis. Ciprofloxacin serum concentrations achieved in humans served as a surrogate endpoint reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit and provided the initial basis for approval of this indication. 1 Supportive clinical information for ciprofloxacin for anthrax post-exposure prophylaxis was obtained during the anthrax bioterror attacks of October 2001 [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1.8 Plague Ciprofloxacin is indicated for treatment of plague, including pneumonic and septicemic plague, due to Yersinia pestis (Y. pestis) and prophylaxis for plague in adults and pediatric patients from birth to 17 years of age. Efficacy studies of ciprofloxacin could not be conducted in humans with plague for feasibility reasons. Therefore this indication is based on an efficacy study conducted in animals only [ see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . 1.9 Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis Ciprofloxacin is indicated in adult patients for treatment of chronic bacterial prostatitis caused by Escherichia coli or Proteus mirabilis . 1.10 Lower Respiratory Tract Infections Ciprofloxacin is indicated in adult patients for treatment of lower respiratory tract infections caused by Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Enterobacter cloacae , Proteus mirabilis , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Haemophilus influenzae , Haemophilus parainfluenzae , or Streptococcus pneumoniae . Ciprofloxacin is not a drug of first choice in the treatment of presumed or confirmed pneumonia secondary to Streptococcus pneumoniae . Ciprofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis (AECB) caused by Moraxella catarrhalis . Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1–5.16) ] and for some patients AECB is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin for treatment of AECB in patients who have no alternative treatment options. 1.11 Urinary Tract Infections Urinary Tract Infections in Adults Ciprofloxacin is indicated in adult patients for treatment of urinary tract infections caused by Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Enterobacter cloacae , Serratia marcescens , Proteus mirabilis , Providencia rettgeri , Morganella morganii , Citrobacter koseri , Citrobacter freundii , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis , Staphylococcus saprophyticus , or Enterococcus faecalis . Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis Ciprofloxacin is indicated in adult female patients for treatment of acute uncomplicated cystitis caused by Escherichia coli or Staphylococcus saprophyticus . Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1-5.16) ] and for some patients acute uncomplicated cystitis is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of acute uncomplicated cystitis in patients who have no alternative treatment options. Complicated Urinary Tract Infection and Pyelonephritis in Pediatric Patients Ciprofloxacin is indicated in pediatric patients aged one to 17 years of age for treatment of complicated urinary tract infections (cUTI) and pyelonephritis due to Escherichia coli [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. Although effective in clinical trials, ciprofloxacin is not a drug of first choice in the pediatric population due to an increased incidence of adverse reactions compared to controls, including reactions related to joints and/or surrounding tissues. Ciprofloxacin, like other fluoroquinolones, is associated with arthropathy and histopathological changes in weight-bearing joints of juvenile animals [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) , Adverse Reactions (6.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Nonclinical Toxicology (13.2) ]. 1.12 Acute Sinusitis Ciprofloxacin is indicated in adult patients for treatment of acute sinusitis caused by Haemophilus influenzae , Streptococcus pneumoniae , or Moraxella catarrhalis . Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1-5.16) ] and for some patients acute sinusitis is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin for treatment of acute sinusitis in patients who have no alternative treatment options. 1.13 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ciprofloxacin and other antibacterial drugs, ciprofloxacin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. If anaerobic organisms are suspected of contributing to the infection, appropriate therapy should be administered. Appropriate culture and susceptibility tests should be performed before treatment in order to isolate and identify organisms causing infection and to determine their susceptibility to ciprofloxacin. Therapy with ciprofloxacin may be initiated before results of these tests are known; once results become available appropriate therapy should be continued. As with other drugs, some isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa may develop resistance fairly rapidly during treatment with ciprofloxacin. Culture and susceptibility testing performed periodically during therapy will provide information not only on the therapeutic effect of the antimicrobial agent but also on the possible emergence of bacterial resistance. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Click here to enter Indications Ciprofloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibacterial indicated in adults (18 years of age and older) with the following infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria and in pediatric patients where indicated: • Skin and Skin Structure Infections ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. ) • Bone and Joint Infections ( Error! ) • Complicated Intra-Abdominal Infections ( Error! ) • Infectious Diarrhea ( Error! ) • Typhoid Fever (Enteric Fever) ( Error! ) • Uncomplicated Cervical and Urethral Gonorrhea ( Error! ) • Inhalational Anthrax post-exposure in adult and pediatric patients ( Error! ) • Plague in adult and pediatric patients ( Error! ) • Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis ( Error! ) • Lower Respiratory Tract Infections ( Error! ) • Acute Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis • Urinary Tract Infections ( Error! ) • Urinary Tract Infections (UTI) • Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis • Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis in Pediatric Patients • Acute Sinusitis ( Error! ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ciprofloxacin and other antibacterial drugs, ciprofloxacin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( Error! ) 1.1 Skin and Skin Structure Infections Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of skin and skin structure infections caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterobacter cloacae, Proteus mirabilis, Proteus vulgaris, Providencia stuartii, Morganella morganii, Citrobacter freundii, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis, or Streptococcus pyogenes. 1.2 Bone and Joint Infections Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of bone and joint infections caused by Enterobacter cloacae, Serratia marcescens, or Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 1.3 Complicated Intra-Abdominal Infections Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of complicated intra-abdominal infections (used in combination with metronidazole) caused by Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Proteus mirabilis, Klebsiella pneumoniae, or Bacteroides fragilis . 1.4 Infectious Diarrhea Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of infectious diarrhea caused by Escherichia coli (enterotoxigenic isolates), Campylobacter jejuni, Shigella boydii † , Shigella dysenteriae, Shigella flexneri or Shigella sonnei † when antibacterial therapy is indicated. 1.5 Typhoid Fever (Enteric Fever) Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of typhoid fever (enteric fever)caused by Salmonella typhi. 1.6 Uncomplicated Cervical and Urethral Gonorrhea Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of uncomplicated cervical and urethral gonorrhea due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae [see Warnings and Precautions ( Error! )]. 1.7 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adults and pediatric patients from birth to 17 years of age for inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) to reduce the incidence or progression of disease following exposure to aerosolized Bacillus anthracis. 1 Supportive clinical information for ciprofloxacin for anthrax post-exposure prophylaxis was obtained during the anthrax bioterror attacks of October 2001 [see Clinical Studies ( Error! 1.8 Plague Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated for treatment of plague, including pneumonic and septicemic plague, due to Yersinia pestis (Y. Therefore this indication is based on an efficacy study conducted in animals only [see Clinical Studies ( Error! )] . 1.9 Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of chronic bacterial prostatitis caused by Escherichia coli or Proteus mirabilis. 1.10 Lower Respiratory Tract Infections Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of lower respiratory tract infections caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterobacter cloacae, Proteus mirabilis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, or Streptococcus pneumoniae. Ciprofloxacin tablets are not a drug of first choice in the treatment of presumed or confirmed pneumonia secondary to Streptococcus pneumoniae. Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated for the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis (AECB) caused by Moraxella catarrhalis. Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( Error! – Error! )] and for some patients AECB is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of AECB in patients who have no alternative treatment options. 1.11 Urinary Tract Infections Urinary Tract Infections in Adults Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of urinary tract infections caused by Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Enterobacter cloacae , Serratia marcescens , Proteus mirabilis , Providencia rettgeri , Morganella morganii , Citrobacter koseri , Citrobacter freundii , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis , Staphylococcus saprophyticus , or Enterococcus faecalis . Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult female patients for treatment of acute uncomplicated cystitis caused by Escherichia coli or Staphylococcus saprophyticus. - Error! )] and for some patients acute uncomplicated cystitis is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of acute uncomplicated cystitis in patients who have no alternative treatment options. Complicated Urinary Tract Infection and Pyelonephritis in Pediatric Patients Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in pediatric patients aged one to 17 years of age for treatment of complicated urinary tract infections (cUTI) and pyelonephritis due to Escherichia coli [see Use in Specific Populations ( Error! Although effective in clinical trials, ciprofloxacin tablets are not a drug of first choice in the pediatric population due to an increased incidence of adverse reactions compared to controls, including reactions related to joints and/or surrounding tissues . Ciprofloxacin tablets, like other fluoroquinolones, are associated with arthropathy and histopathological changes in weight-bearing joints of juvenile animals [see Warnings and Precautions ( Error! ), Adverse Reactions ( Error! ), Use in Specific Populations ( Error! ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( Error! 1.12 Acute Sinusitis Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of acute sinusitis caused by Haemophilus influenzae, Streptococcus pneumoniae, or Moraxella catarrhalis. )] and for some patients acute sinusitis is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of acute sinusitis in patients who have no alternative treatment options . 1.13 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ciprofloxacin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, ciprofloxacin tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Therapy with ciprofloxacin tablets may be initiated before results of these tests are known; once results become available appropriate therapy should be continued. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ciprofloxacin tablet is a fluoroquinolone antibacterial indicated in adults (18 years of age and older) with the following infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria and in pediatric patients where indicated: Skin and Skin Structure Infections (1.1) Bone and Joint Infections (1.2) Complicated Intra-Abdominal Infections (1.3) Infectious Diarrhea (1.4) Typhoid Fever (Enteric Fever) (1.5) Uncomplicated Cervical and Urethral Gonorrhea (1.6) Inhalational Anthrax post-exposure in adult and pediatric patients (1.7) Plague in adult and pediatric patients (1.8) Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis (1.9) Lower Respiratory Tract Infections (1.10) Acute Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis Urinary Tract Infections (1.11) Urinary Tract Infections (UTI) Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis in Pediatric Patients Acute Sinusitis (1.12) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ciprofloxacin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, ciprofloxacin tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. (1.13) 1.1 Skin and Skin Structure Infections Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of skin and skin structure infections caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterobacter cloacae, Proteus mirabilis, Proteus vulgaris, Providencia stuartii, Morganella morganii, Citrobacter freundii, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis, or Streptococcus pyogenes. 1.2 Bone and Joint Infections Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of bone and joint infections caused by Enterobacter cloacae, Serratia marcescens , or Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 1.3 Complicated Intra-Abdominal Infections Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of complicated intra-abdominal infections (used in combination with metronidazole) caused by Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Proteus mirabilis, Klebsiella pneumoniae, or Bacteroides fragilis. 1.5 Typhoid Fever (Enteric Fever) Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of typhoid fever (enteric fever) caused by Salmonella typhi . 1.6 Uncomplicated Cervical and Urethral Gonorrhea Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of uncomplicated cervical and urethral gonorrhea due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17) ]. 1.7 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adults and pediatric patients from birth to 17 years of age for inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) to reduce the incidence or progression of disease following exposure to aerosolized Bacillus anthracis . Therefore this indication is based on an efficacy study conducted in animals only [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. 1.9 Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of chronic bacterial prostatitis caused by Escherichia coli or Proteus mirabilis . Ciprofloxacin tablets are not a drug of first choice in the treatment of presumed or confirmed pneumonia secondary to Streptococcus pneumoniae . Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin tablets, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 to 5.16) ] and for some patients AECB is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of AECB in patients who have no alternative treatment options. 1.11 Urinary Tract Infections Urinary Tract Infections in Adults Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of urinary tract infections caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterobacter cloacae, Serratia marcescens, Proteus mirabilis, Providencia rettgeri, Morganella morganii, Citrobacter koseri, Citrobacter freundii, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis, Staphylococcus saprophyticus, or Enterococcus faecalis. Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin tablets, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 to 5.16) ] and for some patients acute uncomplicated cystitis is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of acute uncomplicated cystitis in patients who have no alternative treatment options. Complicated Urinary Tract Infection and Pyelonephritis in Pediatric Patients Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in pediatric patients aged one to 17 years of age for treatment of complicated urinary tract infections (cUTI) and pyelonephritis due to Escherichia coli [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. Although effective in clinical trials, ciprofloxacin tablets are not a drug of first choice in the pediatric population due to an increased incidence of adverse reactions compared to controls, including reactions related to joints and/or surrounding tissues. Ciprofloxacin tablets, like other fluoroquinolones, is associated with arthropathy and histopathological changes in weight-bearing joints of juvenile animals [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) , Adverse Reactions (6.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Nonclinical Toxicology (13.2) ] . 1.12 Acute Sinusitis Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of acute sinusitis caused by Haemophilus influenzae, Streptococcus pneumoniae, or Moraxella catarrhalis . Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin tablets, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 to 5.16) ] and for some patients acute sinusitis is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of acute sinusitis in patients who have no alternative treatment options. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ciprofloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibacterial indicated in adults (18 years of age and older) with the following infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria and in pediatric patients where indicated: Skin and Skin Structure Infections ( 1.1 ) Bone and Joint Infections ( 1.2 ) Complicated Intra-Abdominal Infections ( 1.3 ) Infectious Diarrhea ( 1.4 ) Typhoid Fever (Enteric Fever) ( 1.5 ) Uncomplicated Cervical and Urethral Gonorrhea ( 1.6 ) Inhalational Anthrax post-exposure in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.7 ) Plague in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.8 ) Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis ( 1.9 ) Lower Respiratory Tract Infections ( 1.10 ) Acute Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis Urinary Tract Infections ( 1.11 ) Urinary Tract Infections (UTI) Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis in Pediatric Patients Acute Sinusitis ( 1.12 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ciprofloxacin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, ciprofloxacin tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.13 ) 1.1 Skin and Skin Structure Infections Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of skin and skin structure infections caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterobacter cloacae, Proteus mirabilis, Proteus vulgaris, Providencia stuartii, Morganella morganii, Citrobacter freundii, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis, or Streptococcus pyogenes. 1.4 Infectious Diarrhea Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of infectious diarrhea caused by Escherichia coli (enterotoxigenic isolates), Campylobacter jejuni, Shigella boydii Although treatment of infections due to this organism in this organ system demonstrated a clinically significant outcome, efficacy was studied in fewer than 10 patients. , Shigella dysenteriae, Shigella flexneri or Shigella sonnei when antibacterial therapy is indicated. 1.5 Typhoid Fever (Enteric Fever) Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of typhoid fever (enteric fever) caused by Salmonella typhi. 1.6 Uncomplicated Cervial and Urethral Gonorrhea Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of uncomplicated cervical and urethral gonorrhea due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17) ]. 1.7 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adults and pediatric patients from birth to 17 years of age for inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) to reduse the incidence or progression of disease following exposure to aerosolized Bacillus anthracis. 1 Supportive clinical information for ciprofloxacin for anthrax post-exposure prophylaxis was obtained during the anthrax bioerror attacks of October 2001 [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1.8 Plague Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated for treatment of plague, including pheumonic and septicemic plague, due to Yersinia pestis (Y. 1.10 Lower Respiratory Tract Infections Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of lower respiratory tract infections caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterobacter cloacae, Proteus mirabilis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Haemophilus infuenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, or Streptococcus pneumoniae. Ciprofloxacin is not a drug of first choice in the treatment of presumed or confirmed pneumonia secondary to Streptococcus pneumoniae. Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin tablets, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 - 5.16) ] and for some patients AECB is sefl-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of AECB in patients who have no alternative treatment options. 1.11 Urinary Tract Infections Urinary Tract Infections in Adults Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of urinary tract infections caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pheumoniae, Enterobacter cloacae, Serratia marcescens, Proteus mirabilis, Providencia rettgeri, Morganella morganii, Citrobacter koseri, Citrobacter freundii, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis, Staphylococcus saprophyticus, or Enterococcus faecalis. Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin tablets, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 - 5.16) ] and for some patients acute uncomplicated cystitis is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatmentof acute uncomplicated cystitis in patients who have no alternative treatment options. Cirpofloxacin tablets, like other fluoroquinolones, is associated with arthropathy and histopathological changes in weight-bearing joints of juvenile animals [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) , Adverse Reactions (6.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Nonclinical Toxicology (13.2) ]. Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin tablets, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 - 5.16) ] and for some patients acute sinusitis is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of acute sinusitis in patients who have no alternative treatment options. As with other drugs, some isolates of Pseadumonas aeruginosa may develop resistance failry rapidly during treatment with ciprofloxacin. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ciprofloxacin 0.3% and dexamethasone 0.1% otic suspension is indicated for the treatment of infections caused by susceptible isolates of the designated microorganisms in the specific conditions listed below: Acute Otitis Media (AOM) in pediatric patients (age 6 months and older) with tympanostomy tubes due to Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis , and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Acute Otitis Externa (AOE) in pediatric (age 6 months and older), adult, and elderly patients due to Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa . Ciprofloxacin 0.3% and dexamethasone 0.1% otic suspension is a combination of ciprofloxacin, a fluoroquinolone antibacterial and dexamethasone, a corticosteroid, indicated for the treatment of infections caused by susceptible isolates of the designated microorganisms in the specific conditions listed below: • Acute Otitis Media (AOM) in pediatric patients (age 6 months and older) with tympanostomy tubes due to Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis , and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. ( 1 ) • Acute Otitis Externa (AOE) in pediatric (age 6 months and older), adult and elderly patients due to Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa . ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ciprofloxacin tablet is a fluoroquinolone antibacterial indicated in adults (18 years of age and older) with the following infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria and in pediatric patients where indicated: Skin and Skin Structure Infections ( 1.1 ) Bone and Joint Infections ( 1.2 ) Complicated Intra-Abdominal Infections ( 1.3 ) Infectious Diarrhea ( 1.4 ) Typhoid Fever (Enteric Fever) ( 1.5 ) Uncomplicated Cervical and Urethral Gonorrhea ( 1.6 ) Inhalational Anthrax post-exposure in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.7 ) Plague in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.8 ) Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis ( 1.9 ) Lower Respiratory Tract Infections ( 1.10 ) Acute Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis Urinary Tract Infections ( 1.11 ) Urinary Tract Infections (UTI) Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis in Pediatric Patients Acute Sinusitis ( 1.12 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ciprofloxacin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, ciprofloxacin tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.13 ) 1.1 Skin and Skin Structure Infections Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of skin and skin structure infections caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterobacter cloacae, Proteus mirabilis, Proteus vulgaris, Providencia stuartii, Morganella morganii, Citrobacter freundii, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, methicillin-­susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis, or Streptococcus pyogenes. 1.6 Uncomplicated Cervical and Urethral Gonorrhea Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of uncomplicated cervical and urethral gonorrhea due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17) ] . 1 Supportive clinical information for ciprofloxacin for anthrax post-exposure prophylaxis was obtained during the anthrax bioterror attacks of October 2001 [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Therefore this indication is based on an efficacy study conducted in animals only [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Click here to enter Indications Ciprofloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibacterial indicated in adults (18 years of age and older) with the following infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria and in pediatric patients where indicated: • Skin and Skin Structure Infections ( 1.1 ) • Bone and Joint Infections ( 1.2 ) • Complicated Intra-Abdominal Infections ( 1.3 ) • Infectious Diarrhea ( 1.4 ) • Typhoid Fever (Enteric Fever) ( 1.5 ) • Uncomplicated Cervical and Urethral Gonorrhea ( 1.6 ) • Inhalational Anthrax post-exposure in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.7 ) • Plague in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.8 ) • Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis ( 1.9 ) • Lower Respiratory Tract Infections ( 1.10 ) • Acute Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis • Urinary Tract Infections ( 1.11 ) • Urinary Tract Infections (UTI) • Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis • Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis in Pediatric Patients • Acute Sinusitis ( 1.12 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ciprofloxacin and other antibacterial drugs, ciprofloxacin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. 1.6 Uncomplicated Cervical and Urethral Gonorrhea Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of uncomplicated cervical and urethral gonorrhea due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.17 )]. 1 Supportive clinical information for ciprofloxacin for anthrax post-exposure prophylaxis was obtained during the anthrax bioterror attacks of October 2001 [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. Therefore this indication is based on an efficacy study conducted in animals only [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 – 5.16 )] and for some patients AECB is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of AECB in patients who have no alternative treatment options. Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 - 5.16 )] and for some patients acute uncomplicated cystitis is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of acute uncomplicated cystitis in patients who have no alternative treatment options. Complicated Urinary Tract Infection and Pyelonephritis in Pediatric Patients Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in pediatric patients aged one to 17 years of age for treatment of complicated urinary tract infections (cUTI) and pyelonephritis due to Escherichia coli [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] . Ciprofloxacin tablets, like other fluoroquinolones, are associated with arthropathy and histopathological changes in weight-bearing joints of juvenile animals [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13.2 )]. Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 - 5.16 )] and for some patients acute sinusitis is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of acute sinusitis in patients who have no alternative treatment options . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ciprofloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibacterial indicated in adults (18 years of age and older) with the following infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria and in pediatric patients where indicated: • Skin and Skin Structure Infections ( 1.1 ) • Bone and Joint Infections ( 1.2 ) • Complicated Intra-Abdominal Infections ( 1.3 ) • Infectious Diarrhea ( 1.4 ) • Typhoid Fever (Enteric Fever) ( 1.5 ) • Uncomplicated Cervical and Urethral Gonorrhea ( 1.6 ) • Inhalational Anthrax post-exposure in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.7) • Plague in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.8 ) • Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis ( 1.9 ) • Lower Respiratory Tract Infections ( 1.10 ) • Acute Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis • Urinary Tract Infections ( 1.11 ) • Urinary Tract Infections (UTI) • Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis • Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis in Pediatric Patients • Acute Sinusitis ( 1.12 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ciprofloxacin and other antibacterial drugs, ciprofloxacin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. 1.10 Lower Respiratory Tract Infections Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of lower respiratory tract infections caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterobacter cloacae, Proteus mirabilis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, or Streptococcus pneumoniae . Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1–5.16 )] and for some patients AECB is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of AECB in patients who have no alternative treatment options . Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult female patients for treatment of acute uncomplicated cystitis caused by Escherichia coli or S taphylococcus saprophyticus. Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 .1-5.16)] and for some patients acute uncomplicated cystitis is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of acute uncomplicated cystitis in patients who have no alternative treatment options. Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1-5.15 )] and for some patients acute sinusitis is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of acute sinusitis in patients who have no alternative treatment options .
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Corneal Ulcers: The recommended dosage regimen for the treatment of corneal ulcers is two drops into the affected eye every 15 minutes for the first six hours and then two drops into the affected eye every 30 minutes for the remainder of the first day. On the second day, instill two drops in the affected eye hourly. On the third through the fourteenth day, place two drops in the affected eye every four hours. Treatment may be continued after 14 days if corneal re-epithelialisation has not occurred. Bacterial Conjunctivitis: The recommended dosage regimen for the treatment of bacterial conjunctivitis is one or two drops instilled into the conjunctival sac(s) every two hours while awake for two days and one or two drops every four hours while awake for the next five days. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Apply a ½ inch ribbon into the conjunctival sac three times a day on the first two days, then apply a ½ inch ribbon two times a day for the next five days. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Ciprofloxacin tablets should be administered orally as described in the appropriate Dosage Guidelines tables. Adult Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Skin and Skin Structure 500-750mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500-750mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra-Abdominal 500mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectious Diarrhea 500mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Gonorrhea 250mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) 500mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 500-750mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract 500-750mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract 250-500mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500mg every 12 hours 10 days Adults with creatinine clearance 3050 mL/min 250500 mg q 12 h ( 2.3 ) Adults with creatinine clearance 529 mL/min 250500 mg q 18 h ( 2.3 ) Patients on hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis 250500 mg q 24 h (after dialysis) ( 2.3 ) Pediatric Oral Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis (1 to 17 years of age) 10-20 mg/kg (maximum 750 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 10 - 21 days Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 60 days Plague 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 8 to 12 hours 14 days 2.1 Dosage in Adults The determination of dosage and duration for any particular patient must take into consideration the severity and nature of the infection, the susceptibility of the causative microorganism, the integrity of the patient's host-defense mechanisms, and the status of renal and hepatic function. Ciprofloxacin tablets may be administered to adult patients when clinically indicated at the discretion of the physician. Table1: Adult Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Usual Duration Generally ciprofloxacin should be continued for at least 2 days after the signs and symptoms of infection have disappeared, except for inhalational anthrax (post-exposure). Skin and Skin Structure 500-750mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500-750mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra-Abdominal Used in conjunction with metronidazole. 500mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectious Diarrhea 500mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Gonorrhea 250mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) Begin drug administration as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure. 500mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 500-750mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract 500-750mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract 250-500mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500mg every 12 hours 10 days Conversion of IV to Oral Dosing in Adults Patients whose therapy is started with ciprofloxacin IV may be switched to ciprofloxacin tablets or oral suspension when clinically indicated at the discretion of the physician (Table 2) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Table 2: Equivalent AUC Dosing Regimens Ciprofloxacin Oral Dosage Equivalent Ciprofloxacin IV Dosage 250 mg Tablet every 12 hours 200 mg intravenous every 12 hours 500 mg Tablet every 12 hours 400 mg intravenous every 12 hours 750 mg Tablet every 12 hours 400 mg intravenous every 8 hours 2.2 Dosage in Pediatric Patients Dosing and initial route of therapy (that is, IV or oral) for cUTI or pyelonephritis should be determined by the severity of the infection. Ciprofloxacin should be administered as described in Table 3. Table 3: Pediatric Oral Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Total Duration Complicated Urinary Tract or Pyelonephritis (patients from 1 to 17 years of age) 10 mg/kg to 20 mg/kg (maximum 750 mg per dose; not to be exceeded even in patients weighing more than 51 kg). Every 12 hours 10 - 21 days The total duration of therapy for cUTI and pyelonephritis in the clinical trial was determined by the physician. the mean duration of treatment was 11 days (range 10 to 21 days). Inhalational Anthrax (Post- Exposure) Begin drug administration as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure. 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 60 days Plague Begin drug administration as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure to Y. pestis. 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 8 to 12 hours 14 days 2.3 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Renal Impairment Ciprofloxacin is eliminated primarily by renal excretion; however, the drug is also metabolized and partially cleared through the biliary system of the liver and through the intestine. These alternative pathways of drug elimination appear to compensate for the reduced renal excretion in patients with renal impairment. Nonetheless, some modification of dosage is recommended, particularly for patients with severe renal dysfunction. Dosage guidelines for use in patients with renal impairment are shown in Table 4. Table 4: Recommended Starting and Maintenance Doses for Adult Patients with Impaired Renal Function Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Dose >50 See Usual Dosage 30 -50 250 – 500 mg every 12 hours 5 - 29 250 – 500 mg every 18 hours Patients on hemodialysis or Peritoneal dialysis 250 – 500 mg every 24 hours (after dialysis) When only the serum creatinine concentration is known, the following formulas may be used to estimate creatinine clearance: Men - Creatinine clearance (mL/min) = Weight (kg) x (140-age) 72 x serum creatinine (mg/dL) Women - 0.85 x the value calculated for men. The serum creatinine should represent a steady state of renal function. In patients with severe infections and severe renal impairment, a unit dose of 750 mg may be administered at the intervals noted above. Patients should be carefully monitored. Pediatric patients with moderate to severe renal insufficiency were excluded from the clinical trial of cUTI and pyelonephritis. No information is available on dosing adjustments necessary for pediatric patients with moderate to severe renal insufficiency (that is, creatinine clearance of < 50 mL/min/1.73m 2 ). 2.4 Important Administration Instructions With Multivalent Cations Administer ciprofloxacin tablets at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after magnesium/aluminum antacids; polymeric phosphate binders (for example, sevelamer, lanthanum carbonate) or sucralfate; Videx ® (didanosine) chewable/buffered tablets or pediatric powder for oral solution; other highly buffered drugs; or other products containing calcium, iron or zinc. With Dairy Products Concomitant administration of ciprofloxacin tablets with dairy products (like milk or yogurt) or calcium-fortified juices alone should be avoided since decreased absorption is possible; however, ciprofloxacin tablets may be taken with a meal that contains these products. Hydration of Patients Receiving Ciprofloxacin Tablets Assure adequate hydration of patients receiving ciprofloxacin tablets to prevent the formation of highly concentrated urine. Crystalluria has been reported with quinolones. Instruct the patient of the appropriate ciprofloxacin tablet administration [see Patient Counseling Information (17) ]. Missed Doses If a dose is missed, it should be taken anytime but not later than 6 hours prior to the next scheduled dose. If less than 6 hours remain before the next dose, the missed dose should not be taken and treatment should be continued as prescribed with the next scheduled dose. Double doses should not be taken to compensate for a missed dose. Adult Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Skin and Skin Structure 500 -750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500-750 mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra-Abdominal 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectious Diarrhea 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Gonorrhea 250 mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) 500 mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 500–750 mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract 500 -750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract 250-500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250 mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days • Adults with creatinine clearance 30–50 mL/min 250–500 mg q 12 h ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. ) • Adults with creatinine clearance 5–29 mL/min 250–500 mg q 18 h ( Error! ) • Patients on hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis 250–500 mg q 24 h (after dialysis) ( Error! ) Pediatric Oral Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis (1 to 17 years of age) 10–20 mg/kg (maximum 750 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 10–21 days Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 60 days Plague 15mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 8 to 12 hours 14days 2.1 Dosage in Adults The determination of dosage and duration for any particular patient must take into consideration the severity and nature of the infection, the susceptibility of the causative microorganism, the integrity of the patient’s host-defense mechanisms, and the status of renal and hepatic function. Ciprofloxacin Tablets may be administered to adult patients when clinically indicted at the discretions of the physician. Table 1: Adult Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Usual Durations 1 Skin and Skin Structure 500 -750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500-750 mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra-Abdominal 2 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectious Diarrhea 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Urethral and Cervical Gonococcal Infections 250 mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) 3 500 mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 3 500–750 mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract Infections 500 -750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract Infections 250-500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250 mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days 1 Generally ciprofloxacin should be continued for at least 2 days after the signs and symptoms of infection have disappeared, except for inhalational anthrax (post-exposure). 2 Used in conjunction with metronidazole. 3 Begin drug administration as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure. Conversion of IV to Oral Dosing in Adults Patients whose therapy is started with Ciprofloxacin IV may be switched to ciprofloxacin tablets when clinically indicated at the discretion of the physician (Table 2) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( Error! )]. Ciprofloxacin tablets should be administered as described in Table 3. Table 3: Pediatric Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Total Duration Complicated Urinary Tract or Pyelonephritis (patients from 1 to 17 years of age) 10 mg/kg to 20 mg/kg (maximum 750 mg per dose; not to be exceeded even in patients weighing more than 51 kg) Every 12 hours 10–21 days 1 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) 2 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 60 days Plague 2,3 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 8 to 12 hours 14 days 1. The total duration of therapy for cUTI and pyelonephritis in the clinical trial was determined by the physician. 2. Begin drug administration as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure. 3. Begin drug administration as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure to Y. 2.3 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Renal Impairment Ciprofloxacin is eliminated primarily by renal excretion; however, the drug is also metabolized and partially cleared through the biliary system of the liver and through the intestine. Table 4: Recommended Starting and Maintenance Doses for Adult Patients with Impaired Renal Function Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Dose > 50 See Usual Dosage. 30–50 250–500 mg every 12 hours 5–29 250–500 mg every 18 hours Patients on hemodialysis or Peritoneal dialysis 250–500 mg every 24 hours (after dialysis) When only the serum creatinine concentration is known, the following formulas may be used to estimate creatinine clearance: Men - Creatinine clearance (mL/min) = Weight (kg) x (140–age) 72 x serum creatinine (mg/dL) Women - 0.85 x the value calculated for men. 2.4 Important Administration Instructions With Multivalent Cations Administer ciprofloxacin tablets at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after magnesium/aluminum antacids; polymeric phosphate binders (for example, sevelamer, lanthanum carbonate) or sucralfate; Videx® (didanosine) chewable/buffered tablets or pediatric powder for oral solution; other highly buffered drugs; or other products containing calcium, iron or zinc. With Dairy Products Concomitant administration of ciprofloxacin tablets with dairy products (like milk or yogurt) or calcium-fortified juices alone should be avoided since decreased absorption is possible; however, ciprofloxacin tabletsmay be taken with a meal that contains these products. Instruct the patient of the appropriate ciprofloxacin tablets administration [see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )]. Adult Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Skin and Skin Structure 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra- Abdominal 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectious Diarrhea 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Gonorrhea 250 mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post‑-exposure) 500 mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract 250 to 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250 mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Adults with creatinine clearance 30 to 50 mL/min 250 to 500 mg q 12 h (2.3) Adults with creatinine clearance 5 to 29 mL/min 250 to 500 mg q 18 h (2.3) Patients on hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis 250 to 500 mg q 24 h (after dialysis) (2.3) Pediatric Oral Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis (1 to 17 years of age) 10 to 20 mg/kg (maximum 750 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 10 to 21 days Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 60 days Plague 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 8 to 12 hours 14 days 2.1 Dosage in Adults The determination of dosage and duration for any particular patient must take into consideration the severity and nature of the infection, the susceptibility of the causative microorganism, the integrity of the patient’s host-defense mechanisms, and the status of renal and hepatic function. Table 1: Adult Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Usual Durations Generally ciprofloxacin should be continued for at least 2 days after the signs and symptoms of infection have disappeared, except for inhalational anthrax (post-exposure). Skin and Skin Structure 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra–Abdominal Used in conjunction with metronidazole. 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectious Diarrhea 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Urethral and Cervical Gonococcal Infections 250 mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post‑-exposure) Begin drug administration as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure. 500 mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract Infections 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract Infections 250 to 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250 mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Conversion of IV to Oral Dosing in Adults Patients whose therapy is started with ciprofloxacin IV may be switched to ciprofloxacin tablets when clinically indicated at the discretion of the physician (Table 2) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 3: Pediatric Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Total Duration Complicated Urinary Tract or Pyelonephritis (patients from 1 to 17 years of age) 10 mg/kg to 20 mg/kg (maximum 750 mg per dose; not to be exceeded even in patients weighing more than 51 kg). Every 12 hours 10 to 21 days The total duration of therapy for cUTI and pyelonephritis in the clinical trial was determined by the physician. Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) Begin drug administration as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure. 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 60 days Plague , Begin drug administration as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure to Y. 30 to 50 250 to 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 29 250 to 500 mg every 18 hours Patients on hemodialysis or Peritoneal dialysis 250 to 500 mg every 24 hours (after dialysis) When only the serum creatinine concentration is known, the following formulas may be used to estimate creatinine clearance: Men - Creatinine clearance (mL/min) = __ Weight (kg) x (140–age) __ 72 x serum creatinine (mg/dL) Women - 0.85 x the value calculated for men. No information is available on dosing adjustments necessary for pediatric patients with moderate to severe renal insufficiency (that is, creatinine clearance of < 50 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ). Instruct the patient of the appropriate ciprofloxacin tablets administration [see Patient Counseling Information (17) ]. Splitting Ciprofloxacin Tablets Ciprofloxacin tablets, 250 mg and 500 mg are functionally scored tablets which can be split into one-half at the scored line to provide a 125 mg and 250 mg strength, respectively. Infection Dose Frequency Duration Skin and Skin Structure 500 mg to 750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500 mg to 750 mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra-Abdominal 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectious Diarrhea 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Gonorrhea 250 mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) 500 mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 500 mg to 750 mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract 500 mg to 750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract 250 mg to 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250 mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Adults with creatinine clearance 30-50 mL/min 250-500 mg q 12 h ( 2.3 ) Adults with creatinine clearance 5–29 mL/min 250–500 mg q 18 h ( 2.3 ) Patients on hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis 250–500 mg q 24 h (after dialysis) ( 2.3 ) Pediatric Oral Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis (1 to 17 years of age) 10 to 20 mg/kg (maximum 750 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 10 to 21 days Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 60 days Plague 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 8 to 12 hours 14 days 2.1 Dosage in Adults The determination of dosage and duration for any particular patient must be take into consideration the severity and nature of the infection, the susceptibility of the causative microorganism, the integrity of the patient's host-defense mechanisms, and the status of renal and hepatic function. Skin and Skin Structure 500 mg to 750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500 mg to 750 mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra-Abdominal Used in conjunction with metronidazole. 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectios Diarrhea 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Urethral and Cervical Gonococcal Infections 250 mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) Begin drug administration as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure. 500 mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 500 mg to 750 mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract Infections 500 mg to 750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract Infections 250 mg to 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250 mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Conversion of IV to Oral Dosing in Adults Patients whose therapy is started with ciprofloxacin IV may be switched to citrofloxacin tablets when clinically indicated at the discretion of the physician (Table 2) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 3: Pediatric Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Total Duration Complicated Urinary Tract or Pyelonephritis (patients from 1 to 17 years of age) 10mg/kg to 20 mg/kg (maximum 750 mg per dose; not to be exceeded even in patients weighing more than 51 kg) Every 12 hours 10 to 21 days The total duration of therapy for cUTI and pyelonephritis in the clinical trail was determined by the physician. 15 mg/kg maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 60 days Plague , Begin drug administration as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure to Y. 30 to 50 250 to 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 29 250 to 500 mg every 18 hours Patients on hemodialysis or Peritoneal dialysis 250 to 500 mg every 24 hours (after dialysis) When only the serum creatinine concentration is known, the following formulas may be used to estimate creatinine clearance: Men - Creatinine clearance (mL/min) = Weight (kg × (140–age) 72 × serum creatinine (mg/dL) Women - 0.85 × the value calculated for men. 2.4 Important Administration Instructions With Multivalent Cations Administer ciprofloxacin at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after magnesium/aluminum antacids; polymeric phosphate binders (for example, sevelamer, lanthanum carbonate) or sucralfate; Videx ® (didanosine) chewable/buffered tablets or pediatric powder for oral solution; other highly buffered drugs; or other products containing calcium, iron or zinc. With Dairy Products Concomitant administration of ciprofloxacin with dairy products (like milk or yogurt) or calcium-fortified juices alone should be avoided since decreased absorption is possible; however, ciprofloxacin may be taken with a meal that contains these products. Hydration of Patients Receiving Ciprofloxacin Assure adequate hydration of patients receiving ciprofloxacin to prevent the formation of highly concentrated urine. Instruct the patient of the appropriate ciprofloxacin administration [see Patient Counseling Information (17) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Ciprofloxacin 0.3% and dexamethasone 0.1% otic suspension is for otic use (ears) only, not for ophthalmic use, or for injection. ( 2.1 ) • Shake well immediately before use. (2.1 ) • Instill four drops into the affected ear twice daily, for seven days. ( 2 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions • Ciprofloxacin 0.3% and dexamethasone 0.1% otic suspension is for otic use (ears) only, and not for ophthalmic use, or for injection. • Shake well immediately before use. 2.2 Dosage For the Treatment of Acute Otitis Media in Pediatric Patients (age 6 months and older) With Tympanostomy Tubes The recommended dosage regimen through tympanostomy tubes is as follows: • Four drops [equivalent to 0.14 mL of ciprofloxacin 0.3% and dexamethasone 0.1% otic suspension, (consisting of 0.42 mg of ciprofloxacin and 0.14 mg of dexamethasone)] instilled into the affected ear twice daily for seven days. • The suspension should be warmed by holding the bottle in the hand for one or two minutes to avoid dizziness, which may result from the instillation of a cold suspension. • The patient should lie with the affected ear upward, and then the drops should be instilled. • The tragus should then be pumped 5 times by pushing inward to facilitate penetration of the drops into the middle ear. • This position should be maintained for 60 seconds. Repeat, if necessary, for the opposite ear. • Discard unused portion after therapy is completed. For the Treatment of Acute Otitis Externa (age 6 months and older) The recommended dosage regimen is as follows: • Four drops [equivalent to 0.14 mL of ciprofloxacin 0.3% and dexamethasone 0.1% otic suspension, (consisting of 0.42 mg ciprofloxacin and 0.14 mg dexamethasone)] instilled into the affected ear twice daily for seven days. • This position should be maintained for 60 seconds to facilitate penetration of the drops into the ear canal. Adult Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Skin and Skin Structure 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra- Abdominal 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectious Diarrhea 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Gonorrhea 250 mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post­-exposure) 500 mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract 250 to 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250 mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Adults with creatinine clearance 30 to 50 mL/min 250 to 500 mg q 12 h ( 2.3 ) Adults with creatinine clearance 5 to 29 mL/min 250 to 500 mg q 18 h ( 2.3 ) Patients on hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis 250 to 500 mg q 24 h (after dialysis) ( 2.3 ) Pediatric Oral Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis (1 to 17 years of age) 10 to 20 mg/kg (maximum 750 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 10 to 21 days Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 60 days Plague 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 8 to 12 hours 14 days 2.1 Dosage in Adults The determination of dosage and duration for any particular patient must take into consideration the severity and nature of the infection, the susceptibility of the causative microorganism, the integrity of the patient’s host-defense mechanisms, and the status of renal and hepatic function. Table 1: Adult Dosage Guidelines 1. Generally ciprofloxacin should be continued for at least 2 days after the signs and symptoms of infection have disappeared, except for inhalational anthrax (post-exposure). Used in conjunction with metronidazole. Infection Dose Frequency Usual Durations 1 Skin and Skin Structure 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra–Abdominal 2 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectious Diarrhea 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Urethral and Cervical Gonococcal Infections 250 mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post­-exposure) 3 500 mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 3 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract Infections 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract Infections 250 to 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250 mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Conversion of IV to Oral Dosing in Adults Patients whose therapy is started with ciprofloxacin IV may be switched to ciprofloxacin tablets when clinically indicated at the discretion of the physician (Table 2) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 3: Pediatric Dosage Guidelines 1. pestis . Infection Dose Frequency Total Duration Complicated Urinary Tract or Pyelonephritis (patients from 1 to 17 years of age) 10 mg/kg to 20 mg/kg (maximum 750 mg per dose; not to be exceeded even in patients weighing more than 51 kg). Every 12 hours 10 to 21 days 1 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) 2 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 60 days Plague 2,3 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 8 to 12 hours 14 days 2.3 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Renal Impairment Ciprofloxacin is eliminated primarily by renal excretion; however, the drug is also metabolized and partially cleared through the biliary system of the liver and through the intestine. 30 to 50 250 to 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 29 250 to 500 mg every 18 hours Patients on hemodialysis or Peritoneal dialysis 250 to 500 mg every 24 hours (after dialysis) When only the serum creatinine concentration is known, the following formulas may be used to estimate creatinine clearance: Men - Creatinine clearance (mL/min) = Weight (kg) x (140–age) 72 x serum creatinine (mg/dL) Women - 0.85 x the value calculated for men. Adult Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Skin and Skin Structure 500 -750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500-750 mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra-Abdominal 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectious Diarrhea 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Gonorrhea 250 mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) 500 mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 500–750 mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract 500 -750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract 250-500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250 mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days • Adults with creatinine clearance 30–50 mL/min 250–500 mg q 12 h ( 2.3 ) • Adults with creatinine clearance 5–29 mL/min 250–500 mg q 18 h ( 2.3 ) • Patients on hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis 250–500 mg q 24 h (after dialysis) ( 2.3 ) Pediatric Oral Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis (1 to 17 years of age) 10–20 mg/kg (maximum 750 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 10–21 days Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 60 days Plague 15mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 8 to 12 hours 14days 2.1 Dosage in Adults The determination of dosage and duration for any particular patient must take into consideration the severity and nature of the infection, the susceptibility of the causative microorganism, the integrity of the patient’s host-defense mechanisms, and the status of renal and hepatic function. Conversion of IV to Oral Dosing in Adults Patients whose therapy is started with Ciprofloxacin IV may be switched to ciprofloxacin tablets when clinically indicated at the discretion of the physician (Table 2) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Adult Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Skin and Skin Structure 500 -750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500-750 mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra-Abdominal 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectious Diarrhea 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Gonorrhea 250 mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) 500 mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 500–750 mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract 500 -750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract 250-500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250 mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days • Adults with creatinine clearance 30–50 mL/min 250–500 mg q 12 h (2.3) • Adults with creatinine clearance 5–29 mL/min 250–500 mg q 18 h (2.3) • Patients on hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis 250–500 mg q 24 h (after dialysis) (2.3) Pediatric Oral Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis (1 to 17 years of age) 10–20 mg/kg (maximum 750 mg per dose Every 12 hours 10–21 days Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 60 days Plague 15mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 8 to 12 hours 14days 2.1 Dosage in Adults The determination of dosage and duration for any particular patient must take into consideration the severity and nature of the infection, the susceptibility of the causative microorganism, the integrity of the patient’s host-defense mechanisms, and the status of renal and hepatic function. Skin and Skin Structure 500–750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500–750 mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra–Abdominal Used in conjunction with metronidazole. 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectious Diarrhea 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Urethral and Cervical Gonococcal Infections 250 mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) Begin drug administration as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure. 500 mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 500–750 mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract Infections 500–750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract Infections 250–500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250 mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Conversion of IV to Oral Dosing in Adults Patients whose therapy is started with Ciprofloxacin IV may be switched to ciprofloxacin tablets when clinically indicated at the discretion of the physician (Table 2) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Table 2: Equivalent AUC Dosing Regimens Ciprofloxacin Oral Dosage Equivalent CIPRO IV Dosage 250 mg Tablet every 12 hours 200 mg intravenous every 12 hours 500 mg Tablet every 12 hours 400 mg intravenous every 12 hours 750 mg Tablet every 12 hours 400 mg intravenous every 8 hours 2.2 Dosage in Pediatric Patients Dosing and initial route of therapy (that is, IV or oral) for cUTI or pyelonephritis should be determined by the severity of the infection. 30–50 250–500 mg every12 hours 5–29 250–500 mg every 18 hours Patients on hemodialysis or Peritoneal dialysis 250–500 mg every 24 hours (after dialysis) When only the serum creatinine concentration is known, the following formulas may be used to estimate creatinine clearance: Men - Creatinine clearance (mL/min) = Weight (kg) x (140–age) 72 x serum creatinine (mg/dL) Women - 0.85 x the value calculated for men. Instruct the patient of the appropriate ciprofloxacin tablets administration [see Patient Counseling Information (17)].
Warnings: WARNINGS: FOR EYE USE ONLY NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions, some following the first dose, have been reported in patients receiving systemic quinolone therapy. Some reactions were accompanied by cardiovascular collapse, loss of consciousness, tingling, pharyngeal or facial edema, dyspnea, urticaria, and itching. Only a few patients had a history of hypersensitivity reactions. Serious anaphylactic reactions require immediate emergency treatment with epinephrine and other resuscitation measures, including oxygen, intravenous fluids, intravenous antihistamines, corticosteroids, pressor amines, and airway management, as clinically indicated.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS A history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin or any other component of the medication is a contraindication to its use. A history of hypersensitivity to other quinolones may also contraindicate the use of ciprofloxacin. CONTRAINDICATIONS: A history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin or any other component of the medication is a contraindication to its use. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin or other quinolones ( 4.1 , 5.6 , 5.7 ) Concomitant administration with tizanidine ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Ciprofloxacin tablet is contraindicated in persons with a history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin, any member of the quinolone class of antibacterials, or any of the product components [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 4.2 Tizanidine Concomitant administration with tizanidine is contraindicated [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Click here to enter Contraindications • Known hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin or other quinolones ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. , Error! Error! ) • Concomitant administration with tizanidine Error! 4.1 Hypersensitivity Ciprofloxacin tablets are contraindicated in persons with a history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin, any member of the quinolone class of antibacterials, or any of the product components [see Warnings and Precautions ( Error! )]. 4.2 Tizanidine Concomitant administration with tizanidine is contraindicated [see Drug Interactions ( Error! 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin tablets or other quinolones (4.1 , 5.6 , 5.7) Concomitant administration with tizanidine (4.2) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Ciprofloxacin tablets are contraindicated in persons with a history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin, any member of the quinolone class of antibacterials, or any of the product components [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin or other quinolones ( 4.1 , 5.6 , 5.7 ) Concomitant administration with tizanidine ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Ciprofloxacin is contraindicated in persons with a history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin, any member of the quinolone class of antibacterials, or any of the product components [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ciprofloxacin 0.3% and dexamethasone 0.1% otic suspension is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin, to other quinolones, or to any of the components in this medication. Use of this product is contraindicated in viral infections of the external canal, including herpes simplex infections and fungal otic infections. • Ciprofloxacin 0.3% and dexamethasone 0.1% otic suspension is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin, to other quinolones, or to any of the components in this medication. ( 4 ) • Use of this product is contraindicated in viral infections of the external canal, including herpes simplex infections and fungal otic infections. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin tablets or other quinolones ( 4.1 , 5.6 , 5.7 ) Concomitant administration with tizanidine ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Ciprofloxacin tablets are contraindicated in persons with a history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin, any member of the quinolone class of antibacterials, or any of the product components [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Click here to enter Contraindications • Known hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin or other quinolones ( 4.1 , 5.7 ) • Concomitant administration with tizanidine 4.1 Hypersensitivity Ciprofloxacin tablets are contraindicated in persons with a history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin, any member of the quinolone class of antibacterials, or any of the product components [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )]. 4.2 Tizanidine Concomitant administration with tizanidine is contraindicated [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Known hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin or other quinolones ( 4.1 , 5.6 , 5.7) • Concomitant administration with tizanidine ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Ciprofloxacin tablets are contraindicated in persons with a history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin, any member of the quinolone class of antibacterials, or any of the product components [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )].
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions: Specific drug interaction studies have not been conducted with ophthalmic ciprofloxacin. However, the systemic administration of some quinolones has been shown to elevate plasma concentrations of theophylline, interfere with the metabolism of caffeine, enhance the effects of the oral anticoagulant, warfarin, and its derivatives, and has been associated with transient elevations in serum creatinine in patients receiving cyclosporine concomitantly. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Ciprofloxacin is an inhibitor of human cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2) mediated metabolism. Co-administration of ciprofloxacin with other drugs primarily metabolized by CYP1A2 results in increased plasma concentrations of these drugs and could lead to clinically significant adverse events of the co-administered drug. Table 11: Drugs That are Affected by and Affecting Ciprofloxacin Drugs That are Affected by Ciprofloxacin Drug(s) Recommendation Comments Tizanidine Contraindicated Concomitant administration of tizanidine and ciprofloxacin is contraindicated due to the potentiation of hypotensive and sedative effects of tizanidine [ see Contraindications (4.2) ]. Theophylline Avoid Use (Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased and Prolonged) Concurrent administration of ciprofloxacin with theophylline may result in increased risk of a patient developing central nervous system (CNS) or other adverse reactions. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor serum levels of theophylline and adjust dosage as appropriate [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] . Drugs Known to Prolong QT Interval Avoid Use Ciprofloxacin may further prolong the QT interval in patients receiving drugs known to prolong the QT interval (for example, class IA or III antiarrhythmics, tricyclic antidepressants, macrolides, antipsychotics) [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) and Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ]. Oral antidiabetic drugs Use with caution Glucose-lowering effect potentiated Hypoglycemia sometimes severe has been reported when ciprofloxacin and oral antidiabetic agents, mainly sulfonylureas (for example, glyburide, glimepiride), were co-administered, presumably by intensifying the action of the oral antidiabetic agent. Fatalities have been reported. Monitor blood glucose when ciprofloxacin is co-administered with oral antidiabetic drugs [ see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . Phenytoin Use with caution Altered serum levels of phenytoin (increased and decreased) To avoid the loss of seizure control associated with decreased phenytoin levels and to prevent phenytoin overdose-related adverse reactions upon ciprofloxacin discontinuation in patients receiving both agents, monitor phenytoin therapy, including phenytoin serum concentration during and shortly after co-administration of ciprofloxacin with phenytoin. Cyclosporine Use with caution (transient elevations in serum creatinine) Monitor renal function (in particular serum creatinine) when ciprofloxacin is co-administered with cyclosporine. Anti-coagulant drugs Use with caution (Increase in anticoagulant effect) The risk may vary with the underlying infection, age and general status of the patient so that the contribution of ciprofloxacin to the increase in INR (international normalized ratio) is difficult to assess. Monitor prothrombin time and INR frequently during and shortly after co-administration of ciprofloxacin with an oral anti-coagulant (for example, warfarin). Methotrexate Use with caution Inhibition of methotrexate renal tubular transport potentially leading to increased methotrexate plasma levels Potential increase in the risk of methotrexate associated toxic reactions. Therefore, carefully monitor patients under methotrexate therapy when concomitant ciprofloxacin therapy is indicated. Ropinirole Use with caution Monitoring for ropinirole-related adverse reactions and appropriate dose adjustment of ropinirole is recommended during and shortly after co-administration with ciprofloxacin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16) ]. Clozapine Use with caution Careful monitoring of clozapine associated adverse reactions and appropriate adjustment of clozapine dosage during and shortly after co-administration with ciprofloxacin are advised. NSAIDs Use with caution Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (but not acetyl salicylic acid) in combination of very high doses of quinolones have been shown to provoke convulsions in pre-clinical studies and in postmarketing. Sildenafil Use with caution Two-fold increase in exposure Monitor for sildenafil toxicity [ see Clinical Pharmacology(12.3) ]. Duloxetine Avoid Use Five-fold increase in duloxetine exposure If unavoidable, monitor for duloxetine toxicity Caffeine/Xanthine Derivatives Use with caution Reduced clearance resulting in elevated levels and prolongation of serum half-life Ciprofloxacin inhibits the formation of paraxanthine after caffeine administration (or pentoxifylline containing products). Monitor for xanthine toxicity and adjust dose as necessary. Zolpidem Avoid Use Co-administration with ciprofloxacin may increase blood levels of zolpidem, concurrent use is not recommended. Drug(s) Affecting Pharmacokinetics of Ciprofloxacin Antacids, Sucralfate, Multivitamins and Other Products Containing Multivalent Cations (magnesium/aluminum antacids; polymeric phosphate binders (for example, sevelamer, lanthanum carbonate); sucralfate; Videx ® (didanosine) chewable/buffered tablets or pediatric powder; other highly buffered drugs; or products containing calcium, iron, or zinc and dairy products) Ciprofloxacin should be taken at least two hours before or six hours after Multivalent cation-containing products administration [see Dosage and Administration (2.4)] Decrease ciprofloxacin absorption, resulting in lower serum and urine levels Probenecid Use with caution (interferes with renal tubular secretion of ciprofloxacin and increases ciprofloxacin serum levels) Potentiation of ciprofloxacin toxicity may occur. Interacting Drug Interaction Theophylline Serious and fatal reactions. Avoid concomitant use. Monitor serum level ( 7 ) Warfarin Anticoagulant effect enhanced. Monitor prothrombin time, INR, and bleeding ( 7 ) Antidiabetic agents Hypoglycemia including fatal outcomes have been reported. Monitor blood glucose ( 7 ) Phenytoin Monitor phenytoin level ( 7 ) Methotrexate Monitor for methotrexate toxicity ( 7 ) Cyclosporine May increase serum creatinine. Monitor serum creatinine ( 7 ) Multivalent cation-containing products including antacids, metal cations or didanosine Decreased ciprofloxacin absorption. Take ciprofloxacin 2 hours before or 6 hours after administration of multivalent cation containing drugs ( 7 ) Table 8: Drugs That are Affected by and Affecting Ciprofloxacin Drugs That are Affected by Ciprofloxacin Drug(s) Recommendation Comments Tizanidine Contraindicated Concomitant administration of tizanidine and ciprofloxacin is contraindicated due to the potentiation of hypotensive and sedative effects of tizanidine [see Contraindications ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. )]. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor serum levels of theophylline and adjust dosage as appropriate [see Warnings and Precautions ( Error! Drugs Known to Prolong QT Interval Avoid Use Ciprofloxacin may further prolong the QT interval in patients receiving drugs known to prolong the QT interval (for example, class IA or III antiarrhythmics, tricyclic antidepressants, macrolides, antipsychotics) [see Warnings and Precautions ( Error! ) and Use in Specific Populations ( Error! Monitor blood glucose when ciprofloxacin is co-administered with oral antidiabetic drugs [see Adverse Reactions ( Error! Monitor prothrombin time and INR frequently during and shortly after co- administration of ciprofloxacin with an oral anti-coagulant (for example, warfarin). Ropinirole Use with caution Monitoring for ropinirole-related adverse reactions and appropriate dose adjustment of ropinirole is recommended during and shortly after co-administration with ciprofloxacin [see Warnings and Precautions ( Error! Sildenafil Use with caution Two-fold increase in exposure Monitor for sildenafil toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology ( Error! Duloxetine Avoid Use Five-fold increase in duloxetine exposure If unavoidable, monitor for duloxetine toxicity. Caffeine/Xanthine Derivatives Use with caution Reduced clearance resulting in elevated levels and prolongation of serum half-life Ciprofloxacin inhibits the formation of paraxanthine after caffeine administration (or pentoxifylline containing products). Drug(s) Affecting Pharmacokinetics of Ciprofloxacin Antacids, Sucralfate, Multivitamins and Other Products Containing Multivalent Cations (magnesium/aluminum antacids; polymeric phosphate binders (for example, sevelamer, lanthanum carbonate); sucralfate; Videx ® (didanosine) chewable/buffered tablets or pediatric powder; other highly buffered drugs; or products containing calcium, iron, or zinc and dairy products) Ciprofloxacin should be taken at least two hours before or six hours after Multivalent cation-containing products administration [see Dosage and Administration ( Error! Decrease ciprofloxacin absorption, resulting in lower serum and urine levels Probenecid Use with caution (interferes with renal tubular secretion of ciprofloxacin and increases ciprofloxacin serum levels) Potentiation of ciprofloxacin toxicity may occur. Monitor serum level ( Error! ) Warfarin Anticoagulant effect enhanced. Monitor prothrombin time, INR, and bleeding(7) Antidiabetic agents Hypoglycemia including fatal outcomes have been reported. Monitor blood glucose (7) Phenytoin Monitor phenytoin level (7) Methotrexate Monitor for methotrexate toxicity (7) Cyclosporine May increase serum creatinine. Monitor serum creatinine (7) Multivalent cation-containing products including antacids, metal cations or didanosine Decreased ciprofloxacin absorption. Take ciprofloxacin tablets 2 hours before or 6 hours after administration of multivalent cation containing drugs (7) Table 11: Drugs That are Affected by and Affecting Ciprofloxacin Drugs That are Affected by Ciprofloxacin Drug(s) Recommendation Comments Tizanidine Contraindicated Concomitant administration of tizanidine and ciprofloxacin is contraindicated due to the potentiation of hypotensive and sedative effects of tizanidine [see Contraindications (4.2) ]. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor serum levels of theophylline and adjust dosage as appropriate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. Drugs Known to Prolong QT Interval Avoid Use Ciprofloxacin may further prolong the QT interval in patients receiving drugs known to prolong the QT interval (for example, class IA or III antiarrhythmics, tricyclic antidepressants, macrolides, antipsychotics) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) and Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ]. Fatalities have been reported . Monitor blood glucose when ciprofloxacin is co-administered with oral antidiabetic drugs [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Sildenafil Use with caution Two-fold increase in exposure Monitor for sildenafil toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Zolpidem Avoid Use Co-administration with ciprofloxacin may increase blood levels of zolpidem, concurrent use is not recommended Drug(s) Affecting Pharmacokinetics of Ciprofloxacin Antacids, Sucralfate, Multivitamins and Other Products Containing Multivalent Cations (magnesium/aluminum antacids; polymeric phosphate binders (for example, sevelamer, lanthanum carbonate); sucralfate; Videx ® (didanosine) chewable/ buffered tablets or pediatric powder; other highly buffered drugs; or products containing calcium, iron, or zinc and dairy products) Ciprofloxacin should be taken at least two hours before or six hours after Multivalent cation-containing products administration [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ]. Monitor serum level (7) Warfarin Anticoagulant effect enhanced. Monitor prothrombin time, INR, and bleeding (7) Antidiabetic agents Hypoglycemia including fatal outcomes have been reported. Monitor serum creatinine (7) Multivalent cation- containing products including antacids, metal cations or didanosine Decreased ciprofloxacin absorption. Take ciprofloxacin 2 hours before or 6 hours after administration of multivalent cation containing drugs (7) Table 8: Drugs That are Affected by and Affecting Ciprofloxacin Drugs That are Affected by Ciprofloxacin Drug(s) Recommendation Comments Tizanidine Contraindicated Concomitant administration of tizanidine and ciprofloxacin is contraindicated due to the potentiation of hypotensive and sedative effects of tizanidine [see Contraindications (4.2) ] Theophylline Avoid Use (Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased and Prolonged) Concurrent administration of ciprofloxacin with theophylline may result in increased risk of a patienyt developing central nervous system (CNS) or other adverse reactions. Phenytoin Use with caution Altered serum levels of phenytoin (increased and decreased) To avoid the loss of seizure control associated with decreased phenytoin levels and to prevent phenytoin overdose-related adverse reactions upon ciprofloxacin discontinuation in patients receiving both agents, monitor phenytoin therapy, including phenytoin serum concentration during and shortly after co-adminstration of ciprofloxacin with phenytoin. Monitor for xanthine toxicity and adjust doses as necessary. Zolpidem Avoid Use Co-administration with ciprofloxacin may increase blood levels of zolpidem, concurrent use is not recommended Drug(s) Affecting Pharmacokinetics of Ciprofloxacin Antacids, Sucralfate, Multivitamins and Other Products Containing Multivalent Cations (magnesium/aluminum antacids; polymeric phosphate binders (for example, sevelamer, lanthanum carbonate); sucralfate; Videx ® (didanosine) chewable/buffered tablets or pediatric powder; other highly buffered drugs; or products containing calcium, iron, or zinc and dairy products) Ciprofloxacin should be taked at least two hours before or six hours after Multivalent cation-containing products administration [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ]. Co­-administration of ciprofloxacin with other drugs primarily metabolized by CYP1A2 results in increased plasma concentrations of these drugs and could lead to clinically significant adverse events of the co-administered drug. Monitor serum creatinine ( 7 ) Multivalent cation- containing products including antacids, metal cations or didanosine Decreased ciprofloxacin absorption. Table 8: Drugs That are Affected by and Affecting Ciprofloxacin Drugs That are Affected by Ciprofloxacin Drug(s) Recommendation Comments Tizanidine Contraindicated Concomitant administration of tizanidine and ciprofloxacin is contraindicated due to the potentiation of hypotensive and sedative effects of tizanidine [see Contraindications ( 4.2 )]. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor serum levels of theophylline and adjust dosage as appropriate [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )]. Drugs Known to Prolong QT Interval Avoid Use Ciprofloxacin may further prolong the QT interval in patients receiving drugs known to prolong the QT interval (for example, class IA or III antiarrhythmics, tricyclic antidepressants, macrolides, antipsychotics) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 )]. Monitor blood glucose when ciprofloxacin is co-administered with oral antidiabetic drugs [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. Ropinirole Use with caution Monitoring for ropinirole-related adverse reactions and appropriate dose adjustment of ropinirole is recommended during and shortly after co-administration with ciprofloxacin [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.16 )]. Sildenafil Use with caution Two-fold increase in exposure Monitor for sildenafil toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Drug(s) Affecting Pharmacokinetics of Ciprofloxacin Antacids, Sucralfate, Multivitamins and Other Products Containing Multivalent Cations (magnesium/aluminum antacids; polymeric phosphate binders (for example, sevelamer, lanthanum carbonate); sucralfate; Videx ® (didanosine) chewable/buffered tablets or pediatric powder; other highly buffered drugs; or products containing calcium, iron, or zinc and dairy products) Ciprofloxacin should be taken at least two hours before or six hours after Multivalent cation-containing products administration [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )]. Table 8: Drugs That are Affected by and Affecting Ciprofloxacin Drugs That are Affected by Ciprofloxacin Drug(s) Recommendation Comments Tizanidine Contraindicated Concomitant administration of tizanidine and ciprofloxacin is contraindicated due to the potentiation of hypotensive and sedative effects of tizanidine [ see Contraindications ( 4.2 ) ] Theophylline Avoid Use (Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased and Prolonged) Concurrent administration of ciprofloxacin with theophylline may result in increased risk of a patient developing central nervous system (CNS) or other adverse reactions. Sildenafil Use with caution Two-fold increase in exposure Monitor for sildenafil toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . Zolpidem Avoid Use Co-administration with ciprofloxacin may increase blood levels of zolpidem, concurrent use is not recommended Drug(s) Affecting Pharmacokinetics of Ciprofloxacin Antacids, Sucralfate, Multivitamins and Other Products Containing Multivalent Cations (magnesium/aluminum antacids; polymeric phosphate binders (for example, sevelamer, lanthanum carbonate); sucralfate; Videx ® (didanosine) chewable/buffered tablets or pediatric powder; other highly buffered drugs; or products containing calcium, iron, or zinc and dairy products) Ciprofloxacin should be taken at least two hours before or six hours after Multivalent cation-containing products administration [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )]. Take 2 hours before or 6 hours after ciprofloxacin ( 7 )

=== GLIMEPIRIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Glimepiride tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Limitations of Use Glimepiride tablets should not be used for the treatment of type 1 diabetes mellitus or diabetic ketoacidosis, as it would not be effective in these settings. Glimepiride tablets are a sulfonylurea indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus ( 1 ). Limitations of Use: Not for treating type 1 diabetes mellitus or diabetic ketoacidosis ( 1 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Glimepiride Tablet, USP is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] ]. Glimepiride Tablet USP is a sulfonylurea indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus ( 1.1 ). Important Limitations of Use: Not for treating type 1 diabetes mellitus or diabetic ketoacidosis ( 1.1 ). 1.1 Important Limitations of Use Glimepiride should not be used for the treatment of type 1 diabetes mellitus or diabetic ketoacidosis, as it would not be effective in these settings. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Glimepiride tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Glimepiride tablets is a sulfonylurea indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus (1). Limitations of Use : • Not for treating type 1 diabetes mellitus or diabetic ketoacidosis (1). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Glimepiride tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. Limitations of Use : Not for treating type 1 diabetes mellitus or diabetic ketoacidosis ( 1 ). 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Glimepiride tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. Glimepiride tablets is a sulfonylurea indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus ( 1 ). Limitations of Use : • Not for treating type 1 diabetes mellitus or diabetic ketoacidosis ( 1 ). Glimepiride tablets are a sulfonylurea indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus ( 1.1 ). 1.1 Important Limitations of Use Glimepiride tablets should not be used for the treatment of type 1 diabetes mellitus or diabetic ketoacidosis, as it would not be effective in these settings. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Glimepiride tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] . Glimepiride is a sulfonylurea indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus (1) . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Glimepiride Tablet are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. Limitations of Use Glimepiride should not be used for the treatment of type 1 diabetes mellitus or diabetic ketoacidosis, as it would not be effective in these settings. Important Limitations of Use: Not for treating type 1 diabetes mellitus or diabetic ketoacidosis ( 1 ).
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended starting dose is 1 or 2 mg once daily. Increase in 1 or 2 mg increments no more frequently than every 1 to 2 weeks based on glycemic response. Maximum recommended dose is 8 mg once daily ( 2.1 ). Administer with breakfast or first meal of the day ( 2.1 ). Use 1 mg starting dose and titrate slowly in patients at increased risk for hypoglycemia (e.g., elderly, patients with renal impairment) ( 2.1 ). 2.1 Recommended Dosing Glimepiride tablets should be administered with breakfast or the first main meal of the day. The recommended starting dose of glimepiride tablets are 1 mg or 2 mg once daily. Patients at increased risk for hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly or patients with renal impairment) should be started on 1 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.5 , 8.6) ]. After reaching a daily dose of 2 mg, further dose increases can be made in increments of 1 mg or 2 mg based upon the patient’s glycemic response. Uptitration should not occur more frequently than every 1 to 2 weeks. A conservative titration scheme is recommended for patients at increased risk for hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.5 , 8.6) ]. The maximum recommended dose is 8 mg once daily. Patients being transferred to glimepiride tablets from longer half-life sulfonylureas (e.g., chlorpropamide) may have overlapping drug effect for 1 to 2 weeks and should be appropriately monitored for hypoglycemia. When colesevelam is coadministered with glimepiride, maximum plasma concentration and total exposure to glimepiride is reduced. Therefore, glimepiride tablets should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Increase in 1 or 2 mg increments no more frequently than every 1-2 weeks based on glycemic response. 2.1 Recommended Dosing Glimepiride should be administered with breakfast or the first main meal of the day. The recommended starting dose of glimepiride is 1 mg or 2 mg once daily. Patients at increased risk for hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly or patients with renal impairment) should be started on 1 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 , 8.6 ) ]. After reaching a daily dose of 2 mg, further dose increases can be made in increments of 1 mg or 2 mg based upon the patient's glycemic response. Uptitration should not occur more frequently than every 1-2 weeks. A conservative titration scheme is recommended for patients at increased risk for hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 , 8.6 ) ]. Patients being transferred to glimepiride from longer half-life sulfonylureas (e.g., chlorpropamide) may have overlapping drug effect for 1-2 weeks and should be appropriately monitored for hypoglycemia. Therefore, glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Recommended starting dose is 1 or 2 mg once daily. Maximum recommended dose is 8 mg once daily. (2.1) Administer with breakfast or first meal of the day. (2.1) Use 1 mg starting dose and titrate slowly in patients at increased risk for hypoglycemia (e.g., elderly, patients with renal impairment). (2.1) 2.1 Recommended Dosing Glimepiride tablets should be administered with breakfast or the first main meal of the day. The recommended starting dose of glimepiride tablets is 1 mg or 2 mg once daily. Patients at increased risk for hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly or patients with renal impairment) should be started on 1 mg once daily [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.5, 8.6) ]. A conservative titration scheme is recommended for patients at increased risk for hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.5, 8.6) ]. ( 2.1 ) Administer with breakfast or first meal of the day. ( 2.1 ) Use 1 mg starting dose and titrate slowly in patients at increased risk for hypoglycemia (e.g., elderly, patients with renal impairment). ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosing Glimepiride tablets should be administered with breakfast or the first main meal of the day. Patients at increased risk for hypoglycemia (e.g., the elderly or patients with renal impairment) should be started on 1 mg once daily [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 , 8.6 ) ]. A conservative titration scheme is recommended for patients at increased risk for hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 , 8.6 ) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended starting dose is 1 mg or 2 mg once daily. Increase in 1 mg or 2 mg increments no more frequently than every 1 to 2 weeks based on glycemic response. A conservative titration scheme is recommended for patients at increased risk for hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.5 , 8.6) ] .
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Glimepiride tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of a hypersensitivity reaction to: Glimepiride or any of the product’s ingredients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Sulfonamide derivatives: Patients who have developed an allergic reaction to sulfonamide derivatives may develop an allergic reaction to glimepiride. Do not use glimepiride in patients who have a history of an allergic reaction to sulfonamide derivatives. Hypersensitivity to glimepiride or any of the product’s ingredients ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to sulfonamide derivatives ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Glimepiride is contraindicated in patients with a history of a hypersensitivity reaction to: Glimepiride or any of the product's ingredients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. Reported hypersensitivity reactions include cutaneous eruptions with or without pruritus as well as more serious reactions (e.g. anaphylaxis, angioedema, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, dyspnea) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ) ]. Hypersensitivity to glimepiride or any of the product's ingredients ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to sulfonamide derivatives ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Glimepiride tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of a hypersensitivity reaction to: Glimepiride or any of the product's ingredients [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Sulfonamide derivatives: Patients who have developed an allergic reaction to sulfonamide derivatives may develop an allergic reaction to glimepiride tablets.Do not use glimepiride tablets in patients who have a history of an allergic reaction to sulfonamide derivatives. Hypersensitivity to glimepiride or any of the product's ingredients (4) Hypersensitivity to sulfonamide derivatives (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Glimepiride tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of a hypersensitivity reaction to: Glimepiride or any of the product’s ingredients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Glimepiride tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of a hypersensitivity reaction to: Glimepiride or any of the product's ingredients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. anaphylaxis, angioedema, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, dyspnea) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ) ]. Sulfonamide derivatives: Patients who have developed an allergic reaction to sulfonamide derivatives may develop an allergic reaction to glimepiride tablets. Do not use glimepiride tablets in patients who have a history of an allergic reaction to sulfonamide derivatives. Hypersensitivity to glimepiride or any of the product’s ingredients (4) Hypersensitivity to sulfonamide derivatives (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Glimepiride Tablets USP are contraindicated in patients with a history of a hypersensitivity reaction to: Glimepiride or any of the product's ingredients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ].
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride tablets dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose ( 7.1 ). Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly. ( 7.2 ). Cytochrome P450 2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations ( 7.3 ). Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption. Glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam ( 2.1 , 7.4 ). 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride tablets dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H 2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride’s glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.2 Miconazole A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.3 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interactions There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. 7.4 Concomitant Administration of Colesevelam Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose ( 7.1 ). 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride's glucose-lowering effect. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride tablets dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose. (7.1) Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride tablets and oral miconazole are used concomitantly. (7.2) Cytochrome P450 2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations. (7.3) Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption. Glimepiride tablets should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam. (2.1, 7.4) 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving glimepiride , monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving glimepiride , monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known 7.3 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Interaction There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of cytochrome P450 2C9. ( 7.1 ) Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride tablets and oral miconazole are used concomitantly. ( 7.2 ) Cytochrome P450 2C9 interactions: Inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P450 2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations. ( 7.3 ) Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption. ( 2.1 , 7.4 ) 7.1 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose. (7.1) Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly. Glimepiride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam.

=== ONDANSETRON HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ondansetron tablets are indicated for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with: highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 . initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy. radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation, single high-dose fraction to the abdomen, or daily fractions to the abdomen Ondansetron tablets are also indicated for the prevention of postoperative nausea and/or vomiting. Ondansetron tablets are 5-HT 3 receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of: nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 (1) nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy (1) nausea and vomiting associated with radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation, single high-dose fraction to the abdomen, or daily fractions to the abdomen (1) postoperative nausea and/or vomiting (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ondansetron tablets are indicated for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with: highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation, single high-dose fraction to the abdomen, or daily fractions to the abdomen Ondansetron tablets are also indicated for the prevention of postoperative nausea and/or vomiting. Ondansetron tablets are a 5-HT 3 receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of: nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 . (1) nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy. (1) nausea and vomiting associated with radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation, single high-dose fraction to the abdomen, or daily fractions to the abdomen. (1) postoperative nausea and/or vomiting. (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ondansetron is indicated for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with: highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 . radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation, single high-dose fraction to the abdomen, or daily fractions to the abdomen. Ondansetron is also indicated for the prevention of postoperative nausea and/or vomiting. Ondansetron is a 5-HT 3 receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of: nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 . ( 1 ) nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy. ( 1 ) nausea and vomiting associated with radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation, single high-dose fraction to the abdomen, or daily fractions to the abdomen. ( 1 ) postoperative nausea and/or vomiting. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ondansetron oral solution is indicated for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with: highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation, single high-dose fraction to the abdomen, or daily fractions to the abdomen Ondansetron oral solution is also indicated for the prevention of postoperative nausea and/or vomiting. Ondansetron oral solution is a 5-HT 3 receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of: nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 . Ondansetron tablets are a 5-HT 3 receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of: nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 (1) nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy (1) nausea and vomiting associated with radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation, single high-dose fraction to the abdomen, or daily fractions to the abdomen (1) postoperative nausea and/or vomiting (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ondansetron tablets are indicated for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with: • highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 • initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy • radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation, single high-dose fraction to the abdomen, or daily fractions to the abdomen Ondansetron tablets are also indicated for the prevention of postoperative nausea and/or vomiting. Ondansetron tablets are a 5-HT 3 receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of: • nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 . (1) • nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy. (1) • nausea and vomiting associated with radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation, single high-dose fraction to the abdomen, or daily fractions to the abdomen. (1) • postoperative nausea and/or vomiting. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ondansetron is indicated for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with: highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation, single high-dose fraction to the abdomen, or daily fractions to the abdomen Ondansetron is also indicated for the prevention of postoperative nausea and/or vomiting.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION See full prescribing information for the recommended dosage in adults and pediatrics (2) Patients with severe hepatic impairment: do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg ( 2.2 , 8.6 ) 2.1 Dosage The recommended dosage regimens for adult and pediatric patients are described in Table 1 and Table 2, respectively. Corresponding doses of ondansetron tablets may be used interchangeably. Table 1: Adult Recommended Dosage Regimen for Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Indication Dosage Regimen Highly Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy A single 24 mg dose administered 30 minutes before the start of single-day highly emetogenic chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 Moderately Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy 8 mg administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy, with a subsequent 8 mg dose 8 hours after the first dose. Then administer 8 mg twice a day (every 12 hours) for 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy. Radiotherapy For total body irradiation : 8 mg administered 1 to 2 hours before each fraction of radiotherapy each day. For single high-dose fraction radiotherapy to the abdomen : 8 mg administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy, with subsequent 8 mg doses every 8 hours after the first dose for 1 to 2 days after completion of radiotherapy. For daily fractionated radiotherapy to the abdomen : 8 mg administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy, with subsequent 8 mg doses every 8 hours after the first dose for each day radiotherapy is given. Postoperative 16 mg administered 1 hour before induction of anesthesia. Table 2: Pediatric Recommended Dosage Regimen for Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Indication Dosage Regimen Moderately Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy 12 to 17 years of age : 8 mg administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy, with a subsequent 8 mg dose 8 hours after the first dose. 4 to 11 years of age : 4 mg administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy, with a subsequent 4 mg dose 4 and 8 hours after the first dose. Then administer 4 mg three times a day for 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy. 2.2 Dosage in Hepatic Impairment In patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score of 10 or greater), do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION See full prescribing information for the recommended dosage in adults and pediatrics. (2) Patients with severe hepatic impairment: do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg. (2.2 , 8.6 ) 2.1 Dosage The recommended dosage regimens for adult and pediatric patients are described in Table 1 and Table 2, respectively. Corresponding doses of ondansetron tablets, ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets and ondansetron oral solution may be used interchangeably. Table 1: Adult Recommended Dosage Regimen for Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Indication Dosage Regimen Highly Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy A single 24 mg dose administered 30 minutes before the start of single-day highly emetogenic chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 . Moderately Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy 8 mg administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy, with a subsequent 8 mg dose 8 hours after the first dose. Table 2: Pediatric Recommended Dosage Regimen for Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Indication Dosage Regimen Moderately Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy 12 to 17 years of age: 8 mg administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy, with a subsequent 8 mg dose 8 hours after the first dose. 4 to 11 years of age: 4 mg administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy, with a subsequent 4 mg dose 4 and 8 hours after the first dose. 2.2 Dosage in Hepatic Impairment In patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score of 10 or greater), do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . ( 2 ) Patients with severe hepatic impairment: do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg. ( 2.2 , 8.6 ) 2.1 Dosage The recommended dosage regimens for adult and pediatric patients are described in Table 1 and Table 2, respectively. Corresponding doses of ondansetron tablets, orally disintegrating tablets and oral solution may be used interchangeably. Table 1: Adult Recommended Dosage Regimen for Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Indication Dosage Regimen Highly Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy A single 24-mg dose administered 30 minutes before the start of single-day highly emetogenic chemotherapy, including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg/m 2 . Moderately Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy 8 mg administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy, with a subsequent 8-mg dose 8 hours after the first dose. Radiotherapy For total body irradiation: 8 mg administered 1 to 2 hours before each fraction of radiotherapy each day. For single high-dose fraction radiotherapy to the abdomen: 8 mg administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy, with subsequent 8-mg doses every 8 hours after the first dose for 1 to 2 days after completion of radiotherapy. For daily fractionated radiotherapy to the abdomen: 8 mg administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy, with subsequent 8-mg doses every 8 hours after the first dose for each day radiotherapy is given. Table 2: Pediatric Recommended Dosage Regimen for Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Indication Dosage Regimen Moderately Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy 12 to 17 years of age: 8 mg administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy, with a subsequent 8-mg dose 8 hours after the first dose. 4 to 11 years of age: 4 mg administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy, with a subsequent 4-mg dose 4 and 8 hours after the first dose. 2.2 Dosage in Hepatic Impairment In patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score of 10 or greater), do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. (2.2, 8.6) 2.1 Dosage The recommended dosage regimens for adult and pediatric patients are described in Table 1 and Table 2, respectively. (2.2 , 8.6 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage regimens for adult and pediatric patients are described in Table 1 and Table 2, respectively. For single high-dose fraction radiotherapy to the abdomen: 8 mg administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy, with subsequent 8 mg doses every 8 hours after the first dose for 1 to 2 days after completion of radiotherapy. For daily fractionated radiotherapy to the abdomen: 8 mg administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy, with subsequent 8 mg doses every 8 hours after the first dose for each day radiotherapy is given. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • See full prescribing information for the recommended dosage in adults and pediatrics. (2) • Patients with severe hepatic impairment: do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg. ( 2.2 , 8.6 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage regimens for adult and pediatric patients are described in Table 1 and Table 2, respectively. Corresponding doses of ondansetron tablets, and ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets may be used interchangeably. 2.2 Dosage in Hepatic Impairment In patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score of 10 or greater), do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.3 Administration Instructions for Ondansetron Orally Disintegrating Tablets Do not attempt to push ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets through the foil backing. With dry hands, PEEL BACK the foil backing of 1 blister and GENTLY remove the tablet. IMMEDIATELY place the ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet on top of the tongue where it will dissolve in seconds, then swallow with saliva. Administration with liquid is not necessary. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION See full prescribing information for the recommended dosage in adults and pediatrics (2) Patients with severe hepatic impairment: do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg ( 2.2 , 8.6 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage regimens for adult and pediatric patients are described in Table 1 and Table 2, respectively.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ondansetron is contraindicated in patients: known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to ondansetron or any of the components of the formulation [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] receiving concomitant apomorphine due to the risk of profound hypotension and loss of consciousness Patients known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to ondansetron or any components of the formulation. (4) Concomitant use of apomorphine (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ondansetron tablets are contraindicated in patients: known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to ondansetron or any of the components of the formulation [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] receiving concomitant apomorphine due to the risk of profound hypotension and loss of consciousness Patients known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to ondansetron or any components of the formulation. (4) Concomitant use of apomorphine. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ondansetron is contraindicated in patients: known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to ondansetron or any of the components of the formulation [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. receiving concomitant apomorphine due to the risk of profound hypotension and loss of consciousness. Patients known to have hypersensitivity (e.g. anaphylaxis) to ondansetron or any components of the formulation. ( 4 ) Concomitant use of apomorphine. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ondansetron tablets are contraindicated in patients: • known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to ondansetron or any of the components of the formulation [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] • receiving concomitant apomorphine due to the risk of profound hypotension and loss of consciousness Patients known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to ondansetron or any components of the formulation. (4) • Concomitant use of apomorphine. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ondansetron is contraindicated in patients: known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to ondansetron or any of the components of the formulation [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] receiving concomitant apomorphine due to the risk of profound hypotension and loss of consciousness Patients known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to ondansetron or any components of the formulation.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Serotonergic Drugs Serotonin syndrome (including altered mental status, autonomic instability, and neuromuscular symptoms) has been described following the concomitant use of 5-HT 3 receptor antagonists and other serotonergic drugs, including SSRIs and SNRIs. Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. If symptoms occur, discontinue ondansetron and initiate supportive treatment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3) ]. 7.2 Drugs Affecting Cytochrome P-450 Enzymes Ondansetron does not itself appear to induce or inhibit the cytochrome P-450 drug-metabolizing enzyme system of the liver [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Because ondansetron is metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P-450 drug-metabolizing enzymes (CYP3A4, CYP2D6, CYP1A2), inducers or inhibitors of these enzymes may change the clearance and, hence, the half-life of ondansetron. In patients treated with potent inducers of CYP3A4 (i.e., phenytoin, carbamazepine, and rifampin), the clearance of ondansetron was significantly increased and ondansetron blood concentrations were decreased. However, on the basis of available data, no dosage adjustment for ondansetron is recommended for patients on these drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.3 Tramadol Although no pharmacokinetic drug interaction between ondansetron and tramadol has been observed, data from 2 small trials indicate that when used together, ondansetron may increase patient-controlled administration of tramadol. Monitor patients to ensure adequate pain control when ondansetron is administered with tramadol. 7.4 Chemotherapy Carmustine, etoposide, and cisplatin do not affect the pharmacokinetics of ondansetron. In a crossover trial in 76 pediatric patients, intravenous ondansetron did not increase systemic concentrations of high-dose methotrexate. 7.5 Alfentanil and Atracurium Ondansetron does not alter the respiratory depressant effects produced by alfentanil or the degree of neuromuscular blockade produced by atracurium. Interactions with general or local anesthetics have not been studied. If symptoms occur, discontinue ondansetron and initiate supportive treatment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . 7.2 Drugs Affecting Cytochrome P-450 Enzymes Ondansetron does not itself appear to induce or inhibit the cytochrome P-450 drug-metabolizing enzyme system of the liver [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . However, on the basis of available data, no dosage adjustment for ondansetron is recommended for patients on these drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . If symptoms occur, discontinue ondansetron and initiate supportive treatment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. However, on the basis of available data, no dosage adjustment for ondansetron is recommended for patients on these drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Serotonergic Drugs Serotonin syndrome (including altered mental status, autonomic instability, and neuromuscular symptoms) has been described following the concomitant use of 5-HT 3 receptor antagonists and other serotonergic drugs, including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). If symptoms occur, discontinue ondansetron and initiate supportive treatment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . 7.2 Drugs Affecting Cytochrome P-450 Enzymes Ondansetron does not itself appear to induce or inhibit the cytochrome P‑450 drug‑metabolizing enzyme system of the liver [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Because ondansetron is metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P‑450 drug‑metabolizing enzymes (CYP3A4, CYP2D6, CYP1A2), inducers or inhibitors of these enzymes may change the clearance and, hence, the half‑life of ondansetron. However, on the basis of available data, no dosage adjustment for ondansetron is recommended for patients on these drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] .

=== ESCITALOPRAM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Escitalopram is indicated for the treatment of: major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older. generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults. Additional pediatric use information is approved for AbbVie Inc.’s Lexapro (escitalopram) tablets and LEXAPRO (escitalopram) oral solution. However, due to AbbVie Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. Escitalopram is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the: treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older ( 1 ) treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Escitalopram is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the: • treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older ( 1 ) • treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults ( 1 ) Escitalopram tablets are indicated for the treatment of: • major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older. • generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults. Additional pediatric use information is approved for AbbVie Inc.’s LEXAPRO ® (escitalopram) tablets. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Escitalopram oral solution is indicated for the treatment of: major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older. Additional pediatric use information is approved for AbbVie Inc.’s LEXAPRO (escitalopram) oral solution. Escitalopram oral solution is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the: treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older. ( 1 ) treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Escitalopram oxalate is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for: Acute and Maintenance Treatment of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) in adults and adolescents aged 12 to 17 years (1.1) Acute Treatment of Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) in adults (1.2) 1.1 Major Depressive Disorder Escitalopram tablets are indicated for the acute and maintenance treatment of major depressive disorder in adults and in adolescents 12 to 17 years of age [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . A major depressive episode (DSM-IV) implies a prominent and relatively persistent (nearly every day for at least 2 weeks) depressed or dysphoric mood that usually interferes with daily functioning, and includes at least five of the following nine symptoms: depressed mood, loss of interest in usual activities, significant change in weight and/or appetite, insomnia or hypersomnia, psychomotor agitation or retardation, increased fatigue, feelings of guilt or worthlessness, slowed thinking or impaired concentration, a suicide attempt or suicidal ideation. 1.2 Generalized Anxiety Disorder Escitalopram tablets are indicated for the acute treatment of Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) in adults [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Generalized Anxiety Disorder (DSM-IV) is characterized by excessive anxiety and worry (apprehensive expectation) that is persistent for at least 6 months and which the person finds difficult to control. It must be associated with at least 3 of the following symptoms: restlessness or feeling keyed up or on edge, being easily fatigued, difficulty concentrating or mind going blank, irritability, muscle tension, and sleep disturbance. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Escitalopram is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the : treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older ( 1 ) treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults ( 1 ) Escitalopram is indicated for the treatment of: • major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older. Additional pediatric use information is approved for AbbVie Inc.’s LEXAPRO (escitalopram) tablets and LEXAPRO (escitalopram) oral solutions. However, due to AbbVie Inc’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Escitalopram is indicated for the treatment of: • major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older. Escitalopram is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the: • treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older ( 1 ) • treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Escitalopram tablets are indicated for the treatment of: major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older. Additional pediatric use information is approved for AbbVie Inc.’s LEXAPRO (escitalopram) tablets. Escitalopram is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the: treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older (1) treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults (1) generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) inadults. Escitalopram oxalate is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the: treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older ( 1 ) treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults ( 1 )
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication and Population Recommended Dosage MDD in Adults ( 2.1 ) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily MDD in Pediatric Patients 12 years and older ( 2.1 ) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily GAD in Adults ( 2.2 ) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily No additional benefits were seen at 20 mg once daily ( 2.1 ) Administer once daily, morning or evening, with or without food ( 2.3 ) Elderly patients: recommended dosage is 10 mg once daily ( 2.4 ) Hepatic impairment: recommended dosage is 10 mg once daily ( 2.4 , 8.6 ) When discontinuing escitalopram, reduce dose gradually whenever possible ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Adults The recommended dosage of escitalopram in adults is 10 mg once daily. A fixed-dose trial of escitalopram demonstrated the effectiveness of both 10 mg and 20 mg of escitalopram, but failed to demonstrate a greater benefit of 20 mg over 10 mg [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Depending on clinical response and tolerability, dosage may be increased to the maximum recommended dosage of 20 mg once daily at an interval of no less than 1 week. Pediatric Patients 12 years of age and older The recommended dosage of escitalopram in pediatric patients 12 years of age and older is 10 mg once daily. Depending on clinical response and tolerability, dosage may be increased to the maximum recommended dosage of 20 mg once daily at an interval of no less than 3 weeks. 2.2 Generalized Anxiety Disorder Adults The recommended starting dosage of escitalopram in adults is 10 mg once daily. Additional pediatric use information is approved for AbbVie Inc.’s Lexapro (escitalopram) tablets and LEXAPRO (escitalopram) oral solution. However, due to AbbVie Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.3 Administration Information Administer escitalopram orally once daily, in the morning or evening, with or without food. 2.4 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Escitalopram Prior to initiating treatment with escitalopram or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. 2.5 Recommended Dosage for Specific Populations The recommended dosage for most elderly patients and patients with hepatic impairment is 10 mg once daily [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 , 8.6 ) ]. The recommended dosage for escitalopram in adults with a creatinine clearance less than 20 mL/minute has not been determined. No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] . 2.6 Discontinuation of Treatment with Escitalopram Symptoms associated with discontinuation of escitalopram and other SSRIs and SNRIs have been reported [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Patients should be monitored for these symptoms when discontinuing treatment. A gradual reduction in the dose rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible. If intolerable symptoms occur following a decrease in the dose or upon discontinuation of treatment, then resuming the previously prescribed dose may be considered. Subsequently, the physician may continue decreasing the dose but at a more gradual rate. 2.7 Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Antidepressant At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with escitalopram. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping escitalopram before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [ see Contraindications (4) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication and Population Recommended Dosage MDD in Adults ( 2.1 ) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily MDD in Pediatric Patients 12 years and older ( 2.1 ) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily GAD in Adults ( 2.2 ) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily • No additional benefits were seen at 20 mg once daily ( 2.1 ) • Administer once daily, morning or evening, with or without food ( 2.3 ) • Elderly patients: recommended dosage is 10 mg once daily ( 2.4 ) • Hepatic impairment: recommended dosage is 10 mg once daily ( 2.4 , 8.6 ) • When discontinuing Escitalopram tablets, reduce dose gradually whenever possible ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Adults The recommended dosage of escitalopram tablets in adults is 10 mg once daily. A fixed-dose trial of escitalopram tablets demonstrated the effectiveness of both 10 mg and 20 mg of escitalopram tablets, but failed to demonstrate a greater benefit of 20 mg over 10 mg [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Pediatric Patients 12 years of age and older The recommended dosage of escitalopram tablets in pediatric patients 12 years of age and older is 10 mg once daily. 2.2 Generalized Anxiety Disorder Adults The recommended starting dosage of escitalopram tablets in adults is 10 mg once daily. Additional pediatric use information is approved for AbbVie Inc.’s LEXAPRO ® (escitalopram) tablets. 2.3 Administration Information Administer escitalopram tablets orally once daily, in the morning or evening, with or without food. 2.4 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Escitalopram Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with escitalopram tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . 2.5 Recommended Dosage for Specific Populations The recommended dosage for most elderly patients and patients with hepatic impairment is 10 mg once daily [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 , 8.6 )] . The recommended dosage for escitalopram tablets in adults with a creatinine clearance less than 20 mL/minute has not been determined. No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )] . 2.6 Discontinuation of Treatment with Escitalopram Tablets Symptoms associated with discontinuation of escitalopram tablets and other SSRIs and SNRIs have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . 2.7 Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Antidepressant At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with escitalopram tablets. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping escitalopram tablets before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication and Population Recommended Dosage MDD in Adults (2.1) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily MDD in Pediatric Patients 12 years and older (2.1) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily GAD in Adults (2.2) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily No additional benefits were seen at 20 mg once daily. (2.1) Administer once daily, morning or evening, with or without food. (2.3) Elderly patients: recommended dosage is 10 mg once daily. (2.4) Hepatic impairment: recommended dosage is 10 mg once daily. (2.4 , 8.6 ) When discontinuing escitalopram oral solution, reduce dose gradually whenever possible. (2.5) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Adults The recommended dosage of escitalopram oral solution in adults is 10 mg once daily. A fixed-dose trial of escitalopram oral solution demonstrated the effectiveness of both 10 mg and 20 mg of escitalopram oral solution, but failed to demonstrate a greater benefit of 20 mg over 10 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Pediatric Patients 12 years of age and older The recommended dosage of escitalopram oral solution in pediatric patients 12 years of age and older is 10 mg once daily. 2.2 Generalized Anxiety Disorder Adults The recommended starting dosage of escitalopram oral solution in adults is 10 mg once daily. Additional pediatric use information is approved for AbbVie Inc.’s LEXAPRO (escitalopram) oral solution. 2.3 Administration Information Administer escitalopram oral solution orally once daily, in the morning or evening, with or without food. 2.4 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Escitalopram Oral Solution Prior to initiating treatment with escitalopram oral solution or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . 2.5 Recommended Dosage for Specific Populations The recommended dosage for most elderly patients and patients with hepatic impairment is 10 mg once daily [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5 , 8.6) ] . The recommended dosage for escitalopram oral solution in adults with a creatinine clearance less than 20 mL/minute has not been determined. No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] . 2.6 Discontinuation of Treatment with Escitalopram Oral Solution Symptoms associated with discontinuation of escitalopram oral solution and other SSRIs and SNRIs have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . 2.7 Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Antidepressant At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with escitalopram oral solution. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping escitalopram oral solution before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications (4) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Escitalopram tablets should be administered once daily, in the morning or evening, with or without food. Escitalopram tablets should generally be administered once daily, morning or evening with or without food ( 2.1 , 2.2 ). Indication Recommended Dose MDD in Adolescents (2.1) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily MDD in Adults (2.1) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily GAD in Adults (2.2) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily No additional benefits seen at 20 mg/day dose (2.1) . 10 mg/day is the recommended dose for most elderly patients and patients with hepatic impairment ( 2.3 ). No dosage adjustment for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. Use caution in patients with severe renal impairment ( 2.3 ). Discontinuing Escitalopram Tablets: A gradual dose reduction is recommended ( 2.4 ). 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Initial Treatment Adolescents The recommended dose of escitalopram tablets is 10 mg once daily. A flexible-dose trial of escitalopram tablets (10 to 20 mg/day) demonstrated the effectiveness of escitalopram tablets [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . If the dose is increased to 20 mg, this should occur after a minimum of three weeks. Adults The recommended dose of escitalopram tablets is 10 mg once daily. A fixed-dose trial of escitalopram tablets demonstrated the effectiveness of both 10 mg and 20 mg of escitalopram tablets, but failed to demonstrate a greater benefit of 20 mg over 10 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . If the dose is increased to 20 mg, this should occur after a minimum of one week. Maintenance Treatment It is generally agreed that acute episodes of major depressive disorder require several months or longer of sustained pharmacological therapy beyond response to the acute episode. Systematic evaluation of continuing escitalopram tablets 10 or 20 mg/day in adults patients with major depressive disorder who responded while taking escitalopram tablets during an 8-week, acute-treatment phase demonstrated a benefit of such maintenance treatment [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Nevertheless, the physician who elects to use escitalopram tablets for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment. 2.2 Generalized Anxiety Disorder Initial Treatment Adults The recommended starting dose of escitalopram tablets is 10 mg once daily. Maintenance Treatment Generalized anxiety disorder is recognized as a chronic condition. The efficacy of escitalopram tablets in the treatment of GAD beyond 8 weeks has not been systematically studied. The physician who elects to use escitalopram tablets for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. 2.3 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Escitalopram Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with escitalopram tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. 2.4 Special Populations 10 mg/day is the recommended dose for most elderly patients and patients with hepatic impairment. No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. Escitalopram tablets should be used with caution in patients with severe renal impairment. 2.5 Discontinuation of Treatment with Escitalopram Tablets Symptoms associated with discontinuation of escitalopram tablets and other SSRIs and SNRIs have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . 2.6 Switching a Patient to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with escitalopram tablets. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping escitalopram tablets before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications (4.1) ]. 2.7 Use of Escitalopram Tablets with Other MAOIs such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start escitalopram tablets in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see Contraindications (4.1) ]. In some cases, a patient already receiving escitalopram tablets therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, escitalopram tablets should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. The patient should be monitored for symptoms of serotonin syndrome for 2 weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, whichever comes first. Therapy with escitalopram tablets may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with escitalopram tablets is unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . Indication and Population Recommended Dose MDD in Adults ( 2.1 ) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily MDD in Pediatric Patients 12 years and older ( 2.1 ) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily GAD in Adults ( 2.2 ) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily No additional benefits were seen at 20 mg once daily ( 2.1 ). Administer once daily, morning or evening, with or without food ( 2.3 ) Elderly patients: recommended dosage is 10 mg once daily ( 2.4 ) Hepatic impairment: recommended dosage is 10 mg once daily ( 2.4 , 8.6 ) When discontinuing escitalopram tablets, reduce dose gradually whenever possible ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Adults The recommended dosage of escitalopram tablets in adults is 10 mg once daily. A fixed-dose trial of escitalopram demonstrated the effectiveness of both 10 mg and 20 mg of escitalopram, but failed to demonstrate a greater benefit of 20 mg over 10 mg [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1) ]. Additional pediatric use information is approved for AbbVie Inc.’s LEXAPRO (escitalopram) tablets and LEXAPRO (escitalopram) oral solutions. However, due to AbbVie Inc’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.3 Administration Information Administer escitalopram tablets orally once daily, in the morning or evening, with or without food 2.4 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Escitalopram Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with escitalopram or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] 2.5 Recommended Dosage for Specific Populations The recommended dosage for most elderly patients and patients with hepatic impairment is 10 mg once daily [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 , 8.6 ) ]. The recommended dosage for escitalopram tablets in adults with a creatinine clearance less than 20 mL/ minute has not been determined. No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) ] . A fixed-dose trial of escitalopram demonstrated the effectiveness of both 10 mg and 20 mg of escitalopram, but failed to demonstrate a greater benefit of 20 mg over 10 mg [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . 2.4 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Escitalopram Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with escitalopram or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . Recommended Dosage for Specific Populations The recommended dosage for most elderly patients and patients with hepatic impairment is 10 mg once daily [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 , 8.6 )] . Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping escitalopram tablets before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication and Population Recommended Dosage MDD in Adults (2.1) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily MDD in Pediatric Patients 12 years and older (2.1) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily GAD in Adults (2.2) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily No additional benefits were seen at 20 mg once daily (2.1) Administer once daily, morning or evening, with or without food (2.3) Elderly patients: recommended dosage is 10 mg once daily (2.4) Hepatic impairment: recommended dosage is 10 mg once daily (2.4, 8.6) When discontinuing escitalopram tablets, reduce dose gradually whenever possible (2.5) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Adults The recommended dosage of escitalopram tablets in adults is 10 mg once daily. A fixed-dose trial of escitalopram demonstrated the effectiveness of both 10 mg and 20 mg of escitalopram, but failed to demonstrate a greater benefit of 20 mg over 10 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Depending on clinical response and tolerability, dosage may be increased to the maximum recommended dosage of 20 mg once daily at an interval of no less than 3 weeks 2.2 Generalized Anxiety Disorder Adults The recommended starting dosage of escitalopram tablets in adults is 10 mg once daily. Additional pediatric use information is approved for AbbVie Inc.’s LEXAPRO (escitalopram) tablets. 2.4 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Escitalopram Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with escitalopram or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. 2.5 Recommended Dosage for Specific Populations The recommended dosage for most elderly patients and patients with hepatic impairment is 10 mg once daily [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5, 8.6)]. No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7)]. 2.6 Discontinuation of Treatment with Escitalopram Tablets Symptoms associated with discontinuation of escitalopram tablets and other SSRIs and SNRIs have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] . Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping escitalopram tablets before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications (4)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication and Population Recommended Dosage MDD in Adults ( 2.1 ) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily MDD in Pediatric Patients 12 years and older ( 2.1 ) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily GAD in Adults ( 2.2 ) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily No additional benefits were seen at 20 mg once daily ( 2.1 ) Administer once daily, morning or evening, with or without food ( 2.3 ) Elderly patients: recommended dosage is 10 mg once daily ( 2.4 ) Hepatic impairment: recommended dosage is 10 mg once daily ( 2.4 , 8.6 ) When discontinuing escitalopram tablets, reduce dose gradually whenever possible ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Adults The recommended dosage of escitalopram tablets in adults is 10 mg once daily. Additional pediatric use information is approvedforAbbVie Inc.’s LEXAPRO (escitalopram) tablets. 2.3 Administration Information Administer escitalopram tablets orally once daily, in the morning orevening, with or without food. 2.4 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Escitalopram Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with escitalopram tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild ormoderate renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7)]. 2.6 Discontinuation of Treatment with Escitalopram Tablets Symptoms associated with discontinuation of escitalopram tablets and other SSRIs and SNRIs have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping escitalopram tablets before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications (4) ] .
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Escitalopram is contraindicated in patients: taking MAOIs with escitalopram or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of escitalopram within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [ see Dosage and Administration (2.7) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Starting escitalopram in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [ see Dosage and Administration (2.6) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. taking pimozide [ see Drug Interactions (7) ] with a hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients in escitalopram. Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with escitalopram or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram. Do not use escitalopram within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders. In addition, do not start escitalopram in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue ( 4 ) Concomitant use of pimozide ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with escitalopram or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram. In addition, do not start escitalopram in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue ( 4 ) Concomitant use of pimozide ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients ( 4 ) Escitalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients: • taking MAOIs with escitalopram tablets or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram tablets because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of escitalopram tablets within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Starting escitalopram tablets in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . • taking pimozide [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . • with a hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients in escitalopram tablets. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Escitalopram oxalate is contraindicated in patients: taking MAOIs with escitalopram oxalate or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram oxalate because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of escitalopram oxalate within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Starting escitalopram oxalate in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . taking pimozide [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . with a hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients in escitalopram oral solution. Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with escitalopram oxalate or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram oxalate. Do not use escitalopram oxalate within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders. In addition, do not start escitalopram oxalate in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. (4) Concomitant use of pimozide. (4) Known hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Serotonin Syndrome and MAOIs: Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with escitalopram tablets or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram tablets. Do not use escitalopram tablets within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders. In addition, do not start escitalopram tablets in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue (4.1) . Pimozide: Do not use concomitantly ( 4.2 ). Known hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients (4.3) . 4.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with escitalopram tablets or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram tablets are contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of escitalopram tablets within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders are also contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Starting escitalopram tablets in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 4.2 Pimozide Concomitant use in patients taking pimozide is contraindicated [see Drug Interactions (7.10) ] . 4.3 Hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram Escitalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients in escitalopram tablets. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Escitalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients: taking MAOIs with escitalopram tablets or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram tablets because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of escitalopram tablets within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ] . Starting escitalopram tablets in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ] . taking pimozide [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] . with a hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients in escitalopram tablets. Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with escitalopram tablets or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram tablets. In addition, do not start escitalopram tablets in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue ( 4 ) Concomitant use of pimozide ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Escitalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients: • taking MAOIs with escitalopram tablets or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram tablets because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. • Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with escitalopram tablets or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram tablets. In addition, do not start escitalopram tablets in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue ( 4 ) • Concomitant use of pimozide ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Escitalopram tablets is contraindicated in patients: taking MAOIs with escitalopram tablets or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram tablets because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of escitalopram tablets within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Starting escitalopram tablets in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [ see Dosage and Administration (2.6) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. taking pimozide [see Drug Interactions (7)]. In addition, do not start escitalopram tablets in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue (4) Concomitant use of pimozide (4) Known hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients (4) The use of escitalopram tablets within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Starting escitalopram tablets in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. taking pimozide [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. In addition, do not start escitalopram tablets in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue ( 4 ) Concomitant use of pimozide ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients ( 4 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 6 presents clinically important drug interactions with escitalopram. TABLE 6 Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Escitalopram Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of SSRIs, including escitalopram, and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Escitalopram is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [ see Dosage and Administration (2.7) , Contraindications (4) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Pimozide Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of racemic citalopram with pimozide increases plasma concentrations of pimozide, a drug with a narrow therapeutic index, and may increase the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to use of racemic citalopram alone [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Escitalopram is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide [ see Contraindications (4) ]. Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of escitalopram and other serotonergic drugs (including other SSRIs, SNRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan, and St. John’s Wort) increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during escitalopram initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of escitalopram and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [ see Warnings and Precautions(5.2) ] Drugs That Interfere With Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin, etc.) Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of escitalopram and an antiplatelet or anticoagulant may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Intervention: Inform patients of the increased risk of bleeding associated with the concomitant use of escitalopram and antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the internationalnormalized ratio [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Sumatriptan Clinical Impact: There have been postmarketing reports describing patients with weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination following the use of an SSRI and sumatriptan. Intervention: If concomitant treatment with sumatriptan and an SSRI is clinically warranted, appropriate observation of the patient is advised [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Carbamazepine Clinical Impact: Combined administration of racemic citalopram (40 mg/day for 14 days) and carbamazepine (titrated to 400 mg/day for 35 days) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of carbamazepine, a CYP3A4 substrate. Intervention: Although trough citalopram plasma levels were unaffected, given the enzyme-inducing properties of carbamazepine, the possibility that carbamazepine might increase the clearance of escitalopram should be considered if the two drugs are coadministered. Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: Coadministration of escitalopram (20 mg/day for 21 days) with the tricyclic antidepressant desipramine (single dose of 50 mg), a substrate for CYP2D6, resulted in a 40% increase in C max and a 100% increase in AUC of desipramine. Intervention: The clinical significance of this finding is unknown. Exercise caution during coadministration of escitalopram and drugs metabolized by CYP2D6. Concomitant use with SSRIs, SNRIs or Tryptophan is not recommended ( 7 ) Use caution when concomitant use with drugs that affect Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin) ( 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Concomitant use with SSRIs, SNRIs or Tryptophan is not recommended ( 7 ) • Use caution when concomitant use with drugs that affect Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin) ( 7 ) Table 6 presents clinically important drug interactions with escitalopram. Intervention: Escitalopram is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 ), Contraindications ( 4 ), and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Pimozide Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of racemic citalopram with pimozide increases plasma concentrations of pimozide, a drug with a narrow therapeutic index, and may increase the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to use of racemic citalopram alone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: Escitalopram is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . John's Wort) increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of Escitalopram and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warning and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Drugs That Interfere With Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin, etc.) Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of Escitalopram and an antiplatelet or anticoagulant may potentiate the risk of bleeding. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio [see Warning and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . Intervention: If concomitant treatment with sumatriptan and an SSRI is clinically warranted, appropriate observation of the patient is advised [see Warning and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: Coadministration of escitalopram (20 mg/day for 21 days) with the tricyclic antidepressant desipramine (single dose of 50 mg), a substrate for CYP2D6, resulted in a 40% increase in Cmax and a 100% increase in AUC of desipramine. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 6 presents clinically important drug interactions with escitalopram oxalate. TABLE 6 Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Escitalopram Oxalate Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of SSRIs, including escitalopram oxalate, and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Escitalopram oxalate is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) , Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Pimozide Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of racemic citalopram with pimozide increases plasma concentrations of pimozide, a drug with a narrow therapeutic index, and may increase the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to use of racemic citalopram alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Intervention: Escitalopram oxalate is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide [see Contraindications (4)] . Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of escitalopram oxalate and other serotonergic drugs (including other SSRIs, SNRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan, and St. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during escitalopram oxalate initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of escitalopram oxalate and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warning and Precautions (5.2)] . Drugs That Interfere With Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin, etc.) Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of escitalopram oxalate and an antiplatelet or anticoagulant may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Intervention: Inform patients of the increased risk of bleeding associated with the concomitant use of escitalopram oxalate and antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio [see Warning and Precautions (5.7)] . Sumatriptan Clinical Impact: There have been post-marketing reports describing patients with weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination following the use of an SSRI and sumatriptan. Intervention: If concomitant treatment with sumatriptan and an SSRI is clinically warranted, appropriate observation of the patient is advised [see Warning and Precautions (5.2)] . Intervention: Although trough citalopram plasma levels were unaffected, given the enzyme-inducing properties of carbamazepine, the possibility that carbamazepine might increase the clearance of escitalopram should be considered if the two drugs are co-administered. Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: Co-administration of escitalopram (20 mg/day for 21 days) with the tricyclic antidepressant desipramine (single dose of 50 mg), a substrate for CYP2D6, resulted in a 40% increase in C max and a 100% increase in AUC of desipramine. Exercise caution during co-administration of escitalopram and drugs metabolized by CYP2D6. Concomitant use with SSRIs, SNRIs or Tryptophan is not recommended. (7) Use caution when concomitant use with drugs that affect Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin). (7) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant use with SSRIs, SNRIs or Tryptophan is not recommended ( 7.2 ). Use caution when concomitant use with drugs that affect Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin) (7.6) . 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) [See Dosage and Administration (2.5 and 2.6) , Contraindications (4.1) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 7.2 Serotonergic Drugs [See Dosage and Administration (2.5 and 2.6) , Contraindications (4.1) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 7.3 Triptans There have been rare postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome with use of an SSRI and a triptan. If concomitant treatment of escitalopram oxalate with a triptan is clinically warranted, careful observation of the patient is advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 7.4 CNS Drugs Given the primary CNS effects of escitalopram, caution should be used when it is taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs. 7.5 Alcohol Although escitalopram oxalate did not potentiate the cognitive and motor effects of alcohol in a clinical trial, as with other psychotropic medications, the use of alcohol by patients taking escitalopram oxalate is not recommended. 7.6 Drugs That Interfere With Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin, etc.) Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies of the case-control and cohort design that have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding have also shown that concurrent use of an NSAID or aspirin may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Altered anticoagulant effects, including increased bleeding, have been reported when SSRIs and SNRIs are coadministered with warfarin. Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when escitalopram oxalate is initiated or discontinued. 7.7 Cimetidine In subjects who had received 21 days of 40 mg/day racemic citalopram, combined administration of 400 mg twice a day cimetidine for 8 days resulted in an increase in citalopram AUC and C max of 43% and 39%, respectively. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. 7.8 Digoxin In subjects who had received 21 days of 40 mg/day racemic citalopram, combined administration of citalopram and digoxin (single dose of 1 mg) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either citalopram or digoxin. 7.9 Lithium Coadministration of racemic citalopram (40 mg/day for 10 days) and lithium (30 mmol/day for 5 days) had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of citalopram or lithium. Nevertheless, plasma lithium levels should be monitored with appropriate adjustment to the lithium dose in accordance with standard clinical practice. Because lithium may enhance the serotonergic effects of escitalopram, caution should be exercised when escitalopram oxalate and lithium are coadministered. 7.10 Pimozide and Celexa In a controlled study, a single dose of pimozide 2 mg co-administered with racemic citalopram 40 mg given once daily for 11 days was associated with a mean increase in QTc values of approximately 10 msec compared to pimozide given alone. Racemic citalopram did not alter the mean AUC or C max of pimozide. The mechanism of this pharmacodynamic interaction is not known. 7.11 Sumatriptan There have been rare postmarketing reports describing patients with weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination following the use of an SSRI and sumatriptan. If concomitant treatment with sumatriptan and an SSRI (e.g., fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, paroxetine, sertraline, citalopram, escitalopram) is clinically warranted, appropriate observation of the patient is advised. 7.12 Theophylline Combined administration of racemic citalopram (40 mg/day for 21 days) and the CYP1A2 substrate theophylline (single dose of 300 mg) did not affect the pharmacokinetics of theophylline. The effect of theophylline on the pharmacokinetics of citalopram was not evaluated. 7.13 Warfarin Administration of 40 mg/day racemic citalopram for 21 days did not affect the pharmacokinetics of warfarin, a CYP3A4 substrate. Prothrombin time was increased by 5%, the clinical significance of which is unknown. 7.14 Carbamazepine Combined administration of racemic citalopram (40 mg/day for 14 days) and carbamazepine (titrated to 400 mg/day for 35 days) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of carbamazepine, a CYP3A4 substrate. Although trough citalopram plasma levels were unaffected, given the enzyme-inducing properties of carbamazepine, the possibility that carbamazepine might increase the clearance of escitalopram should be considered if the two drugs are coadministered. 7.15 Triazolam Combined administration of racemic citalopram (titrated to 40 mg/day for 28 days) and the CYP3A4 substrate triazolam (single dose of 0.25 mg) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either citalopram or triazolam. 7.16 Ketoconazole Combined administration of racemic citalopram (40 mg) and ketoconazole (200 mg), a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, decreased the C max and AUC of ketoconazole by 21% and 10%, respectively, and did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of citalopram. 7.17 Ritonavir Combined administration of a single dose of ritonavir (600 mg), both a CYP3A4 substrate and a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, and escitalopram (20 mg) did not affect the pharmacokinetics of either ritonavir or escitalopram. 7.18 CYP3A4 and -2C19 Inhibitors In vitro studies indicated that CYP3A4 and -2C19 are the primary enzymes involved in the metabolism of escitalopram. However, coadministration of escitalopram (20 mg) and ritonavir (600 mg), a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of escitalopram. Because escitalopram is metabolized by multiple enzyme systems, inhibition of a single enzyme may not appreciably decrease escitalopram clearance. 7.19 Drugs Metabolized by Cytochrome P4502D6 In vitro studies did not reveal an inhibitory effect of escitalopram on CYP2D6. In addition, steady state levels of racemic citalopram were not significantly different in poor metabolizers and extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers after multiple-dose administration of citalopram, suggesting that coadministration, with escitalopram, of a drug that inhibits CYP2D6, is unlikely to have clinically significant effects on escitalopram metabolism. However, there are limited in vivo data suggesting a modest CYP2D6 inhibitory effect for escitalopram, i.e., coadministration of escitalopram (20 mg/day for 21 days) with the tricyclic antidepressant desipramine (single dose of 50 mg), a substrate for CYP2D6, resulted in a 40% increase in C max and a 100% increase in AUC of desipramine. The clinical significance of this finding is unknown. Nevertheless, caution is indicated in the coadministration of escitalopram and drugs metabolized by CYP2D6. 7.20 Metoprolol Administration of 20 mg/day escitalopram oxalate for 21 days in healthy volunteers resulted in a 50% increase in C max and 82% increase in AUC of the beta-adrenergic blocker metoprolol (given in a single dose of 100 mg). Increased metoprolol plasma levels have been associated with decreased cardioselectivity. Coadministration of escitalopram oxalate and metoprolol had no clinically significant effects on blood pressure or heart rate. 7.21 Electroconvulsive Therapy (ECT) There are no clinical studies of the combined use of ECT and escitalopram. TABLE 6 Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Escitalopram. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of SSRIs, including escitalopram, and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Escitalopram is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 ), Contraindications (4), and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Pimozide Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of racemic citalopram with pimozide increases plasma concentrations of pimozide, a drug with a narrow therapeutic index, and may increase the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to use of racemic citalopram alone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: Escitalopram is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of escitalopram and other serotonergic drugs (including other SSRIs, SNRIs, SNRIs, triptans, tricycle antidepressant, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan and St. John’s Wort) increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. • Concomitant use with SSRIs, SNRIs or Tryptophan is not recommended ( 7 ) • Use caution when concomitant use with drugs that affect Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin) ( 7 ) TABLE 6 Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Escitalopram Concomitant use with SSRIs, SNRIs or Tryptophan is notrecommended (7) Use caution when concomitant use with drugs that affect Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin) (7) 7.1 7.2 Intervention: Escitalopram oxalate is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) , Contraindications (4) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Pimozide Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of racemic citalopram with pimozide increases plasma concentrations of pimozide, a drug with a narrow therapeutic index, and may increase the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to use of racemic citalopram alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Escitalopram oxalate is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide [see Contraindications (4) ]. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of escitalopram oxalate and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warning and Precautions (5.2) ] . For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio [see Warning and Precautions (5.7) ] . Intervention: If concomitant treatment with sumatriptan and an SSRI is clinically warranted, appropriate observation of the patient is advised [see Warning and Precautions (5.2) ] .

=== INDOMETHACIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Indomethacin capsules are indicated for: Moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease Moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis Moderate to severe osteoarthritis Acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) Acute gouty arthritis Indomethacin capsules are nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for: Moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease Moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis Moderate to severe osteoarthritis Acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) Acute gouty arthritis ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Indomethacin extended-release capsules are indicated for: • Moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease • Moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis • Moderate to severe osteoarthritis • Acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) Indomethacin extended-release capsules are a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for: • Moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease • Moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis • Moderate to severe osteoarthritis • Acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Indomethacin capsules are indicated for: • Moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease • Moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis • Moderate to severe osteoarthritis • Acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) • Acute gouty arthritis Indomethacin capsules are nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for: • Moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease • Moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis • Moderate to severe osteoarthritis • Acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) • Acute gouty arthritis ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Indomethacin capsules are indicated for: • Moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease • Moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis • Moderate to severe osteoarthritis • Acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) • Acute gouty arthritis Indomethacin capsule is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for: • Moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease • Moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis • Moderate to severe osteoarthritis • Acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) • Acute gouty arthritis ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Indomethacin Suppository is indicated for: • Moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease • Moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis • Moderate to severe osteoarthritis • Acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) • Acute gouty arthritis Indomethacin is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for: • Moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease • Moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis • Moderate to severe osteoarthritis • Acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) • Acute gouty arthritis ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Indomethacin Capsules are indicated for: • Moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease • Moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis • Moderate to severe osteoarthritis • Acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) • Acute gouty arthritis Indomethacin Capsule is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for: • Moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease • Moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis • Moderate to severe osteoarthritis • Acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) • Acute gouty arthritis ( 1 )
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dosage for shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals. ( 2.1 ) The dosage for moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease; moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis; and moderate to severe osteoarthritis is indomethacin capsules 25 mg two or three times a day. ( 2.2 ) The dosage for acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) is 75 to 150 mg daily in 3 or 4 divided doses. ( 2.3 ) The dosage for acute gouty arthritis is indomethacin capsules 50 mg three times a day. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 General Dosing Instructions Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of indomethacin capsules and other treatment options before deciding to use indomethacin capsules. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [ see Warnings and Precautions (5) ]. After observing the response to initial therapy with indomethacin, the dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient’s needs. Adverse reactions generally appear to correlate with the dose of indomethacin. Therefore, every effort should be made to determine the lowest effective dosage for the individual patient. Dosage recommendations for active stages of the following: 2.2 Moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease; moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis; and moderate to severe osteoarthritis Indomethacin capsules 25 mg twice a day or three times a day. If this is well tolerated, increase the daily dosage by 25 mg or by 50 mg, if required by continuing symptoms, at weekly intervals until a satisfactory response is obtained or until a total daily dose of 150 to 200 mg is reached. Doses above this amount generally do not increase the effectiveness of the drug. In patients who have persistent night pain and/or morning stiffness, the giving of a large portion, up to a maximum of 100 mg, of the total daily dose at bedtime may be helpful in affording relief. The total daily dose should not exceed 200 mg. In acute flares of chronic rheumatoid arthritis, it may be necessary to increase the dosage by 25 mg or, if required, by 50 mg daily. If minor adverse effects develop as the dosage is increased, reduce the dosage rapidly to a tolerated dose and observe the patient closely. If severe adverse reactions occur, stop the drug. After the acute phase of the disease is under control, an attempt to reduce the daily dose should be made repeatedly until the patient is receiving the smallest effective dose or the drug is discontinued. Careful instructions to, and observations of, the individual patient are essential to the prevention of serious, irreversible, including fatal, adverse reactions. As advancing years appear to increase the possibility of adverse reactions, indomethacin capsules should be used with greater care in the elderly [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ]. 2.3 Acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) Indomethacin capsules 75 to 150 mg daily in 3 or 4 divided doses. The drug should be discontinued after the signs and symptoms of inflammation have been controlled for several days. The usual course of therapy is 7 to 14 days. 2.4 Acute Gouty Arthritis Indomethacin capsules 50 mg three times a day until pain is tolerable. The dose should then be rapidly reduced to complete cessation of the drug. Definite relief of pain has been reported within 2 to 4 hours. Tenderness and heat usually subside in 24 to 36 hours, and swelling gradually disappears in 3 to 5 days. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Use the lowest effective dosage for shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals ( 2.1 ) • The dosage for moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease; moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis; and moderate to severe osteoarthritis is one indomethacin extended-release 75 mg capsule daily ( 2.2 ) • The dosage for acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) is one indomethacin extended-release 75 mg capsule once or twice daily ( 2.3 ) 2.1 General Dosing Instructions Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of indomethacin extended-release capsules and other treatment options before deciding to use indomethacin extended-release capsules. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ]. THIS SECTION PREDOMINANTLY REFERENCES THE INDOMETHACIN IMMEDIATE-RELEASE CAPSULE ORAL DOSAGE AND IS INTENDED TO PROVIDE GUIDANCE IN USING INDOMETHACIN EXTENDED-RELEASE CAPSULES, 75 MG Indomethacin extended-release capsules, 75 mg once a day can be substituted for indomethacin immediate-release capsules, 25 mg three times a day. However, there will be significant differences between the two dosage regimens in indomethacin blood levels, especially after 12 hours [see Clinical Pharmacology (12) ]. In addition, indomethacin extended-release capsules, 75 mg twice a day can be substituted for indomethacin immediate-release capsules, USP 50 mg three times a day. Indomethacin extended-release capsules may be substituted for all the indications for indomethacin immediate-release capsules, USP except acute gouty arthritis. Dosage Recommendations for Active Stages of the Following: 2.2 Moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease; moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis; and moderate to severe osteoarthritis Indomethacin immediate-release capsules, 25 mg twice a day or three times a day. As advancing years appear to increase the possibility of adverse reactions, indomethacin extended-release capsules should be used with greater care in the elderly [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ]. 2.3 Acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) Indomethacin immediate-release capsules 75 to 150 mg daily in 3 or 4 divided doses. Discontinue indomethacin extended-release capsules treatment after the signs and symptoms of inflammation have been controlled for several days. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Use the lowest effective dosage for shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals. ( 2.1 ) • The dosage for moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease; moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis; and moderate to severe osteoarthritis is indomethacin capsules 25 mg two or three times a day. ( 2.2 ) • The dosage for acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) is 75 to 150 mg daily in 3 or 4 divided doses. ( 2.3 ) • The dosage for acute gouty arthritis is indomethacin capsules 50 mg three times a day. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Use the lowest effective dosage for shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals ( 2.1 ) • The dosage for moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease; moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis; and moderate to severe osteoarthritis is indomethacin capsules 25 mg two or three times a day ( 2.2 ) • The dosage for acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) is 75 mg to 150 mg daily in 3 or 4 divided doses ( 2.3 ) • The dosage for acute gouty arthritis is indomethacin capsules 50 mg three times a day ( 2.4 ) 2.1 General Dosing Instructions Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of indomethacin capsules and other treatment options before deciding to use indomethacin capsules. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ]. If this is well tolerated, increase the daily dosage by 25 mg or by 50 mg, if required by continuing symptoms, at weekly intervals until a satisfactory response is obtained or until a total daily dose of 150 mg to 200 mg is reached. As advancing years appear to increase the possibility of adverse reactions, indomethacin should be used with greater care in the elderly [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 ) ]. 2.3 Acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) Indomethacin capsules 75 mg to 150 mg daily in 3 or 4 divided doses. ( 2.1 ) • Indomethacin suppositories 50 mg can be substituted for indomethacin capsules, USP; however, there will be significant differences between the two dosage regimens in indomethacin blood levels. ( 12.3 ) • The dosage for moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease; moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis; and moderate to severe osteoarthritis is indomethacin capsules, USP 25 mg two or three times a day. ( 2.3 ) • The dosage for acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) is indomethacin capsules, USP 75-150 mg daily in 3 or 4 divided doses. ( 2.4 ) • The dosage for acute gouty arthritis is indomethacin capsules, USP 50 mg three times a day. ( 2.5 ) • Indomethacin suppositories are not for oral or intravaginal use. 2.1 General Dosing Instructions Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of Indomethacin and other treatment options before deciding to use Indomethacin. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )]. SUPPOSITORIES: Indomethacin Suppositories are available as 50 mg suppositories for rectal use only. Indomethacin Suppositories are not for oral or intravaginal use. 2.2 Suppository Dosing Instructions THIS SECTION PREDOMINANTLY MAKES REFERENCE TO INDOMETHACIN CAPSULE, USP ORAL DOSAGE FOR GUIDANCE IN USING SUPPOSITORIES. Indomethacin suppositories 50 mg can be substituted for indomethacin capsules, USP; however, there will be significant differences between the two dosage regimens in indomethacin blood levels [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Oral dosage recommendations for active stages of the following: 2.3 Moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease; moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis; and moderate to severe osteoarthritis Indomethacin capsules, USP 25 mg twice a day or three times a day. If this is well tolerated, increase the daily dosage by 25 mg or by 50 mg, if required by continuing symptoms, at weekly intervals until a satisfactory response is obtained or until a total daily dose of 150 - 200 mg is reached. In patients who have persistent night pain and/or morning stiffness, the giving of a large portion, up to a maximum of 100 mg, of the total daily dose at bedtime, either orally or by rectal suppositories, may be helpful in affording relief. As advancing years appear to increase the possibility of adverse reactions, Indomethacin should be used with greater care in the elderly [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 )]. 2.4 Acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) Indomethacin capsules, USP 75-150 mg daily in 3 or 4 divided doses. The usual course of therapy is 7-14 days. 2.5 Acute Gouty Arthritis Indomethacin capsules, USP 50 mg three times a day. Until pain is tolerable. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION • Use the lowest effective dosage for shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals ( 2.1 ) • The dosage for moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease; moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis; and moderate to severe osteoarthritis is indomethacin capsules 25 mg two or three times a day ( 2.2 ) • The dosage for acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) is 75 mg to 150 mg daily in 3 or 4 divided doses ( 2.3 ) • The dosage for acute gouty arthritis is indomethacin capsules 50 mg three times a day ( 2.4 ) 2.1 General Dosing Instructions Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of indomethacin capsules and other treatment options before deciding to use indomethacin capsules. Dosage recommendations for active stages of the following: 2.2 Moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis including acute flares of chronic disease; Indomethacin capsules 25 mg twice a day or three times a day. As advancing years appear to increase the possibility of adverse reactions, indomethacin should be used with greater care in the elderly. [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 ) ] 2.3 Acute painful shoulder (bursitis and/or tendinitis) Indomethacin capsules 75 mg to 150 mg daily in 3 or 4 divided doses. 2.4 Acute Gouty Arthritis Indomethacin Capsules 50 mg three times a day, until pain is tolerable.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Indomethacin capsules are contraindicated in the following patients: Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to indomethacin or any components of the drug product [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.9) ] . History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.8) ] . In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Known hypersensitivity to indomethacin or any components of the drug product. ( 4 ) History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. ( 4 ) In the setting of CABG surgery. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Indomethacin extended-release capsules are contraindicated in the following patients: • Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to indomethacin or any components of the drug product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7 , 5.9 )] • History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7 , 5.8) ] • In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] • Known hypersensitivity to indomethacin or any components of the drug product ( 4 ) • History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs ( 4 ) • In the setting of CABG surgery ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Indomethacin capsules are contraindicated in the following patients: • Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to indomethacin or any components of the drug product [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.9) ] . • History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. • In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. • Known hypersensitivity to indomethacin or any components of the drug product. ( 4 ) • History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. ( 4 ) • In the setting of CABG surgery. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Indomethacin Capsules are contraindicated in the following patients: • Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to indomethacin or any components of the drug product [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.9 ) ] • History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.8 ) ] • In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ] • Known hypersensitivity to indomethacin or any components of the drug product ( 4 ) • History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs ( 4 ) • In the setting of CABG surgery ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Indomethacin is contraindicated in the following patients: • Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to indomethacin or any components of the drug product [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.9 )] • History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.8 )] • In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] • In patients with a history of proctitis or recent rectal bleeding • Known hypersensitivity to indomethacin or any components of the drug product ( 4 ) • History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs ( 4 ) • In the setting of CABG surgery ( 4 ) • In patients with a history of proctitis or recent rectal bleeding ( 4 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See Table 2 for clinically significant drug interactions with indomethacin. Table 2 Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Indomethacin Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: Indomethacin and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. The concomitant use of indomethacin and anticoagulants have an increased risk of serious bleeding compared to the use of either drug alone. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Case-control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of indomethacin capsules with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ) ] . Aspirin Clinical Impact: Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. Intervention: Concomitant use of indomethacin capsules and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] . Indomethacin capsules are not substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact: NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Intervention: During concomitant use of indomethacin capsules and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. During concomitant use of indomethacin capsules and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ] . When these drugs are administered concomitantly, patients should be adequately hydrated. Assess renal function at the beginning of the concomitant treatment and periodically thereafter. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. This effect has been attributed to the NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. It has been reported that the addition of triamterene to a maintenance schedule of indomethacin capsules resulted in reversible acute renal failure in two of four healthy volunteers. Indomethacin capsules and triamterene should not be administered together. Both indomethacin capsules and potassium-sparing diuretics may be associated with increased serum potassium levels. The potential effects of indomethacin capsules and potassium-sparing diuretics on potassium levels and renal function should be considered when these agents are administered concurrently. Intervention: Indomethacin and triamterene should not be administered together. During concomitant use of indomethacin capsules with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects. Be aware that indomethacin and potassium-sparing diuretics may both be associated with increased serum potassium levels [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ]. Digoxin Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of indomethacin with digoxin has been reported to increase the serum concentration and prolong the half-life of digoxin. Intervention: During concomitant use of indomethacin capsules and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Lithium Clinical Impact: NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance . The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%, and the renal clearance decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of indomethacin capsules and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction). Intervention: During concomitant use of indomethacin capsules and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of indomethacin capsules and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine’s nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of indomethacin capsules and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of indomethacin with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ] . Combined use with diflunisal may be particularly hazardous because diflunisal causes significantly higher plasma levels of indomethacin [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. In some patients, combined use of indomethacin and diflunisal has been associated with fatal gastrointestinal hemorrhage. Intervention: The concomitant use of indomethacin with other NSAIDs or salicylates, especially diflunisal, is not recommended. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of indomethacin capsules and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention: During concomitant use of indomethacin capsules and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. NSAIDs with short elimination half-lives (e.g., diclofenac, indomethacin) should be avoided for a period of two days before, the day of, and two days following administration of pemetrexed. In the absence of data regarding potential interaction between pemetrexed and NSAIDs with longer half-lives (e.g., meloxicam, nabumetone), patients taking these NSAIDs should interrupt dosing for at least five days before, the day of, and two days following pemetrexed administration. Probenecid Clinical Impact: When indomethacin is given to patients receiving probenecid, the plasma levels of indomethacin are likely to be increased. Intervention: During the concomitant use of indomethacin capsules and probenecid, a lower total daily dosage of indomethacin may produce a satisfactory therapeutic effect. When increases in the dose of indomethacin are made, they should be made carefully and in small increments. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g. warfarin, aspirin, SSRIs/SNRIs) : Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly taking indomethacin capsules with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. Concomitant use of indomethacin and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended. ( 7 ) ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARB), or Beta-Blockers : Concomitant use with indomethacin may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Monitor blood pressure. ( 7 ) ACE Inhibitors and ARBs : Concomitant use with indomethacin in elderly, volume depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function. ( 7 ) Diuretics : NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. Monitor patients to assure diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects. ( 7 ) Digoxin : Concomitant use with indomethacin can increase serum concentration and prolong half-life of digoxin. Monitor serum digoxin levels. ( 7 ) Effects on Laboratory Tests Indomethacin capsules reduces basal plasma renin activity (PRA), as well as those elevations of PRA induced by furosemide administration, or salt or volume depletion. These facts should be considered when evaluating plasma renin activity in hypertensive patients. False-negative results in the dexamethasone suppression test (DST) in patients being treated with indomethacin have been reported. Thus, results of the DST should be interpreted with caution in these patients. Table 2 Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Indomethacin Dr ugs That Interfere with Hemostasis C linica l Impact: Indomethacin and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of indomethacin extended-release capsules with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. Aspirin C linica l Impact: Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Intervention: Concomitant use of indomethacin extended-release capsules and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. Indomethacin extended-release capsules are not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-Blockers C linica l Impact: NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure.These effects are usually reversible. Intervention: During concomitant use of indomethacin extended-release capsules and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. During concomitant use of indomethacin extended-release capsules and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . Assess renal function at the beginning of the concomitant treatment andperiodically thereafter. Diure tics C linica l Impact: Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. It has been reported that the addition of triamterene to a maintenance schedule of indomethacin extended-release capsules resulted in reversible acute renal failure in two of four healthy volunteers. Indomethacin extended-release capsules and triamterene should not be administered together. Both indomethacin extended-release capsules and potassium-sparing diuretics may be associated with increased serum potassium levels. The potential effects of indomethacin extended-release capsules and potassium-sparing diuretics on potassium levels and renal function should be considered when these agents are administered concurrently. During concomitant use of indomethacin extended-release capsules with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects. Be aware that indomethacin and potassium-sparing diuretics may both be associated with increased serum potassium levels [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Di g o xin C linica l Impact: The concomitant use of indomethacin with digoxin has been reported to increase the serum concentration and prolong the half-life of digoxin. Intervention: During concomitant use of indomethacin extended-release capsules and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Lithium C linica l Impact: NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance . Intervention: During concomitant use of indomethacin extended-release capsules and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Met h ot r exate C linica l Impact: Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction). Intervention: During concomitant use of indomethacin extended-release capsules and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyc l os p ori n e C linica l Impact: Concomitant use of indomethacin extended-release capsules and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine’s nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of indomethacin extended-release capsules and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAI Ds and Salicylates C linica l Impact: Concomitant use of indomethacin with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Combined use with diflunisal may be particularly hazardous because diflunisal causes significantly higher plasma levels of indomethacin. [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . P emetrexed C linica l Impact: Concomitant use of indomethacin extended-release capsules and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention: During concomitant use of indomethacin extended-release capsules and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. Probenecid C linica l Impact: When indomethacin is given to patients receiving probenecid, the plasma levels of indomethacin are likely to be increased. Intervention: During the concomitant use of indomethacin extended-release capsules and probenecid, a lower total daily dosage of indomethacin may produce a satisfactory therapeutic effect. Effects on Laboratory Tests Indomethacin reduces basal plasma renin activity (PRA), as well as those elevations of PRA induced by furosemide administration, or salt or volume depletion. • Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g. warfarin, aspirin, SSRIs/SNRIs) : Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly taking indomethacin extended-release capsules with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. Concomitant use of indomethacin extended-release capsules and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended ( 7 ) • ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARB), or Beta-Blockers : Concomitant use with indomethacin extended-release capsules may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Monitor blood pressure ( 7 ) • ACE Inhibitors and ARBs : Concomitant use with indomethacin extended-release capsules in elderly, volume depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function ( 7 ) • Diuretics : NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. Monitor patients to assure diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects ( 7 ) • Digoxin : Concomitant use with indomethacin extended-release capsules can increase serum concentration and prolong half-life of digoxin. Monitor serum digoxin levels ( 7 ) Table 2 Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Indomethacin Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: • Indomethacin and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. • Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact: • NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). • In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Intervention: • During concomitant use of indomethacin capsules and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. • During concomitant use of indomethacin capsules and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ] . • When these drugs are administered concomitantly, patients should be adequately hydrated. ( 7 ) • ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARB), or Beta-Blockers : Concomitant use with indomethacin may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. ( 7 ) • ACE Inhibitors and ARBs : Concomitant use with indomethacin in elderly, volume depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. ( 7 ) • Diuretics : NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. ( 7 ) • Digoxin : Concomitant use with indomethacin can increase serum concentration and prolong half-life of digoxin. Table 2: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Indomethacin Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: Indomethacin and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of indomethacin with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )]. Intervention : Concomitant use of indomethacin and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ) ]. Indomethacin capsule is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. Intervention: During concomitant use of indomethacin and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. During concomitant use of indomethacin and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ] . It has been reported that the addition of triamterene to a maintenance schedule of indomethacin resulted in reversible acute renal failure in two of four healthy volunteers. Indomethacin and triamterene should not be administered together. The potential effects of indomethacin and potassium-sparing diuretics on potassium levels and renal function should be considered when these agents are administered concurrently. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of indomethacin and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine’s nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of indomethacin and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of indomethacin and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention: During concomitant use of indomethacin and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. Intervention: During the concomitant use of indomethacin and probenecid, a lower total daily dosage of indomethacin may produce a satisfactory therapeutic effect. warfarin, aspirin, SSRIs/SNRIs): Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly taking indomethacin with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. Concomitant use of indomethacin and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended ( 7 ) • ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARB), or Beta-Blockers: Concomitant use with indomethacin may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Monitor blood pressure ( 7 ) • ACE Inhibitors and ARBs: Concomitant use with indomethacin in elderly, volume depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function ( 7 ) • Diuretics: NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. Monitor patients to assure diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects ( 7 ) • Digoxin: Concomitant use with indomethacin can increase serum concentration and prolong half-life of digoxin. Table 2: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Indomethacin Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: • Indomethacin and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of Indomethacin with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )]. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Intervention: Concomitant use of Indomethacin and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )]. Indomethacin is not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. Intervention: • During concomitant use of Indomethacin and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. • During concomitant use of Indomethacin and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )]. Both Indomethacin and potassium-sparing diuretics may be associated with increased serum potassium levels. During concomitant use of Indomethacin with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects. Be aware that indomethacin and potassium-sparing diuretics may both be associated with increased serum potassium levels [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )]. Intervention: During concomitant use of Indomethacin and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Intervention: During concomitant use of Indomethacin and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of Indomethacin and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of indomethacin with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Combined use with diflunisal may be particularly hazardous because diflunisal causes significantly higher plasma levels of indomethacin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. warfarin, aspirin, SSRIs/SNRIs) : Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly taking Indomethacin with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. ( 7 ) Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of indomethacin with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )]. Intervention Concomitant use of indomethacin and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ) ].

=== LEVOFLOXACIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Levofloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibacterial indicated in adults (18 years of age and older) with infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria and in pediatric patients where indicated (1, 12.4). • Pneumonia: Nosocomial (1.1) and Community Acquired (1.2, 1.3) • Skin and Skin Structure Infections (SSSI): Complicated (1.4) and Uncomplicated (1.5) • Chronic bacterial prostatitis (1.6) • Inhalational Anthrax, Post-Exposure in adult and pediatric patients (1.7) • Plague in adult and pediatric patients (1.8) • Urinary Tract Infections (UTI): Complicated (1.9, 1.10) and Uncomplicated (1.12) • Acute Pyelonephritis (1.11) • Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis (1.13) • Acute Bacterial Sinusitis (1.14) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of levofloxacin and other antibacterial drugs, levofloxacin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria (1.15). 1.1 Nosocomial Pneumonia Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of nosocomial pneumonia due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Serratia marcescens, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, or Streptococcus pneumoniae. Adjunctive therapy should be used as clinically indicated. Where Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a documented or presumptive pathogen, combination therapy with an anti-pseudomonal β-lactam is recommended [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1) ]. 1.2 Community-Acquired Pneumonia: 7 to 14 day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae (including multi-drug-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae [MDRSP]), Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Moraxella catarrhalis, Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Legionella pneumophila, or Mycoplasma pneumoniae [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) and Clinical Studies ( 14.2)]. MDRSP isolates are isolates resistant to two or more of the following antibacterials: penicillin (MIC ≥2 mcg/mL), 2nd generation cephalosporins, e.g., cefuroxime, macrolides, tetracyclines and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole. 1.3 Community-Acquired Pneumonia: 5-day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia due to Streptococcus pneumoniae (excluding multi-drug-resistant isolates [MDRSP]), Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, or Chlamydophila pneumoniae [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.3)]. 1.4 Complicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, Enterococcus faecalis, Streptococcus pyogenes, or Proteus mirabilis [see Clinical Studies ( 14.5)]. 1.5 Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections (mild to moderate) including abscesses, cellulitis, furuncles, impetigo, pyoderma, wound infections, due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, or Streptococcus pyogenes. 1.6 Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of chronic bacterial prostatitis due to Escherichia coli, Enterococcus faecalis, or methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis [see Clinical Studies ( 14.6 )]. 1.7 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) Levofloxacin tablets are indicated for inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) to reduce the incidence or progression of disease following exposure to aerosolized Bacillus anthracis in adults and pediatric patients, 6 months of age and older [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2)]. The effectiveness of levofloxacin tablets is based on plasma concentrations achieved in humans, a surrogate endpoint reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit. Levofloxacin tablets have not been tested in humans for the post-exposure prevention of inhalation anthrax. The safety of levofloxacin tablets in adults for durations of therapy beyond 28 days or in pediatric patients for durations of therapy beyond 14 days has not been studied. Prolonged levofloxacin tablets therapy should only be used when the benefit outweighs the risk [see Clinical Studies ( 14.9 )]. 1.8 Plague Levofloxacin tablets are indicated for treatment of plague, including pneumonic and septicemic plague, due to Yersinia pestis (Y. pestis) and prophylaxis for plague in adults and pediatric patients, 6 months of age and older [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )]. Efficacy studies of levofloxacin tablets could not be conducted in humans with plague for ethical and feasibility reasons. Therefore, approval of this indication was based on an efficacy study conducted in animals [see Clinical Studies ( 14.10)]. 1.9 Complicated Urinary Tract Infections: 5-day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections due to Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, or Proteus mirabilis [see Clinical Studies ( 14.7 )]. 1.10 Complicated Urinary Tract Infections: 10-day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections (mild to moderate) due to Enterococcus faecalis, Enterobacter cloacae, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Proteus mirabilis, or Pseudomonas aeruginosa [see Clinical Studies (14.8) ]. 1.11 Acute Pyelonephritis: 5 or 10-day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of acute pyelonephritis caused by Escherichia coli, including cases with concurrent bacteremia [see Clinical Studies (14.7 , 14.8 )]. 1.12 Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infections Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infections (mild to moderate) due to Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, or Staphylococcus saprophyticus. Because fluoroquinolones, including levofloxacin tablets, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 to 5.15 )] and for some patients uncomplicated urinary tract infection is self-limiting, reserve levofloxacin for treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infections in patients who have no alternative treatment options. 1.13 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic bronchitis (ABECB) due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, or Moraxella catarrhalis. Because fluoroquinolones, including levofloxacin tablets, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 to 5.15 )] and for some patients ABECB is self-limiting, reserve levofloxacin tablets for treatment of ABECB in patients who have no alternative treatment options. 1.14 Acute Bacterial Sinusitis: 5-day and 10 to 14 day Treatment Regimens Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of acute bacterial sinusitis (ABS) due to Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, or Moraxella catarrhalis [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4)]. Because fluoroquinolones, including levofloxacin tablets, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 to 5.15 )] and for some patients ABS is self-limiting, reserve levofloxacin tablets for treatment of ABS in patients who have no alternative treatment options. 1.15 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of levofloxacin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, levofloxacin tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. Culture and susceptibility testing Appropriate culture and susceptibility tests should be performed before treatment in order to isolate and identify organisms causing the infection and to determine their susceptibility to levofloxacin [see Microbiology ( 12.4)] . Therapy with levofloxacin tablets may be initiated before results of these tests are known; once results become available, appropriate therapy should be selected. As with other drugs in this class, some isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa may develop resistance fairly rapidly during treatment with levofloxacin tablets. Culture and susceptibility testing performed periodically during therapy will provide information about the continued susceptibility of the pathogens to the antimicrobial agent and also the possible emergence of bacterial resistance. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levofloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibacterial indicated in adults (18 years of age and older) with infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria and in pediatric patients where indicated ( 1 , 12.4 ). • Pneumonia: Nosocomial ( 1.1 ) and Community Acquired ( 1.2 , 1.3 ) • Skin and Skin Structure Infections (SSSI): Complicated ( 1.4 ) and Uncomplicated ( 1.5 ) • Chronic bacterial prostatitis ( 1.6 ) • Inhalational Anthrax, Post-Exposure in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.7 ) • Plague in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.8 ) • Urinary Tract Infections (UTI): Complicated ( 1.9 , 1.10 ) and Uncomplicated ( 1.12 ) • Acute Pyelonephritis ( 1.11 ) • Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis ( 1.13 ) • Acute Bacterial Sinusitis ( 1.14 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of levofloxacin and other antibacterial drugs, levofloxacin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria ( 1.15 ). 1.1 Nosocomial Pneumonia Levofloxacin tablet is indicated in adult patients for the treatment of nosocomial pneumonia due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Serratia marcescens, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, or Streptococcus pneumoniae . Where Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a documented or presumptive pathogen, combination therapy with an anti-pseudomonal β-lactam is recommended [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . 1.2 Community-Acquired Pneumonia: 7 to 14 day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin tablet is indicated in adult patients for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae (including multi-drug-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae [MDRSP]), Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Moraxella catarrhalis, Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Legionella pneumophila, or Mycoplasma pneumoniae [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . MDRSP isolates are isolates resistant to two or more of the following antibacterials: penicillin (MIC ≥ 2 mcg/mL), 2 nd generation cephalosporins, e.g., cefuroxime, macrolides, tetracyclines and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole. 1.3 Community-Acquired Pneumonia: 5-day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin tablet is indicated in adult patients for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia due to Streptococcus pneumoniae (excluding multi-drug-resistant isolates [MDRSP]), Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, or Chlamydophila pneumoniae [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )]. 1.4 Complicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections Levofloxacin tablet is indicated in adult patients for the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, Enterococcus faecalis, Streptococcus pyogenes, or Proteus mirabilis [see Clinical Studies ( 14.5 )]. 1.5 Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections Levofloxacin tablet is indicated in adult patients for the treatment of uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections (mild to moderate) including abscesses, cellulitis, furuncles, impetigo, pyoderma, wound infections, due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus , or Streptococcus pyogenes . 1.6 Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis Levofloxacin tablet is indicated in adult patients for the treatment of chronic bacterial prostatitis due to Escherichia coli, Enterococcus faecalis, or methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis [see Clinical Studies ( 14.6 )]. 1.7 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) Levofloxacin tablet is indicated for inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) to reduce the incidence or progression of disease following exposure to aerosolized Bacillus anthracis in adults and pediatric patients, 6 months of age and older [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )]. The effectiveness of levofloxacin tablet is based on plasma concentrations achieved in humans, a surrogate endpoint reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit. Levofloxacin tablet has not been tested in humans for the post-exposure prevention of inhalation anthrax. 1.8 Plague Levofloxacin tablet is indicated for treatment of plague, including pneumonic and septicemic plague, due to Yersinia pestis ( Y. pestis ) and prophylaxis for plague in adults and pediatric patients, 6 months of age and older [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )]. Therefore, approval of this indication was based on an efficacy study conducted in animals [see Clinical Studies ( 14.10 )]. 1.9 Complicated Urinary Tract Infections: 5-day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin tablet is indicated in adult patients for the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections due to Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, or Proteus mirabilis [see Clinical Studies ( 14.7 )]. 1.10 Complicated Urinary Tract Infections: 10-day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin tablet is indicated in adult patients for the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections (mild to moderate) due to Enterococcus faecalis, Enterobacter cloacae, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Proteus mirabilis, or Pseudomonas aeruginosa [see Clinical Studies ( 14.8 )] . 1.11 Acute Pyelonephritis: 5 or 10-day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin tablet is indicated in adult patients for the treatment of acute pyelonephritis caused by Escherichia coli , including cases with concurrent bacteremia [see Clinical Studies ( 14.7 , 14.8 )] . 1.12 Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infections Levofloxacin tablet is indicated in adult patients for the treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infections (mild to moderate) due to Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, or Staphylococcus saprophyticus . Because fluoroquinolones, including levofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )] and for some patients uncomplicated urinary tract infection is self-limiting, reserve levofloxacin for treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infections in patients who have no alternative treatment options. 1.13 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis Levofloxacin tablet is indicated in adult patients for the treatment of acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic bronchitis (ABECB) due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae , Haemophilus parainfluenzae , or Moraxella catarrhalis . Because fluoroquinolones, including levofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )] and for some patients ABECB is self-limiting, reserve levofloxacin for treatment of ABECB in patients who have no alternative treatment options. 1.14 Acute Bacterial Sinusitis: 5-day and 10 to14 day Treatment Regimens Levofloxacin tablet is indicated in adult patients for the treatment of acute bacterial sinusitis (ABS) due to Streptococcus pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae , or Moraxella catarrhalis [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )] . Because fluoroquinolones, including levofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )] and for some patients ABS is self-limiting, reserve levofloxacin for treatment of ABS in patients who have no alternative treatment options. 1.15 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of levofloxacin and other antibacterial drugs, levofloxacin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Culture and Susceptibility Testing Appropriate culture and susceptibility tests should be performed before treatment in order to isolate and identify organisms causing the infection and to determine their susceptibility to levofloxacin [see Microbiology ( 12.4 )] . Therapy with levofloxacin may be initiated before results of these tests are known; once results become available, appropriate therapy should be selected. As with other drugs in this class, some isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa may develop resistance fairly rapidly during treatment with levofloxacin. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levofloxacin tablet is a fluoroquinolone antibacterial indicated in adults (18 years of age and older) with infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria and in pediatric patients where indicated ( 1 , 12.4 ). • Pneumonia: Nosocomial ( 1.1 ) and Community Acquired ( 1.2 , 1.3 ) • Skin and Skin Structure Infections (SSSI): Complicated ( 1.4 ) and Uncomplicated ( 1.5) • Chronic bacterial prostatitis (1.6) • Inhalational Anthrax, Post-Exposure in adult and pediatric patients (1.7) • Plague in adult and pediatric patients (1.8) • Urinary Tract Infections (UTI) : Complicated ( 1.9 , 1.10 ) and Uncomplicated ( 1.12) • Acute Pyelonephritis (1.11) • Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis ( 1.13) • Acute Bacterial Sinusitis ( 1.14) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of levofloxacin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, levofloxacin tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria ( 1.15 ) . 1.1Nosocomial Pneumonia Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of nosocomial pneumonia due to methicillin-susceptible S taphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Serratia marcescens, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, or Streptococcus pneumoniae . Where Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a documented or presumptive pathogen, combination therapy with an anti-pseudomonal β-lactam is recommended [ see Clinical Studies (14.1 ) ]. 1.2 Community-Acquired Pneumonia: 7 to 14 day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae (including multi-drug-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae [MDRSP]), Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Moraxella catarrhalis, Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Legionella pneumophila, or Mycoplasma pneumoniae [ see Dosage and Administration (2.1) and Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. MDRSP isolates are isolates resistant to two or more of the following antibacterials: penicillin (MIC ≥2 mcg/mL), 2 nd generation cephalosporins, e.g., cefuroxime, macrolides, tetracyclines and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole. 1.3Community-Acquired Pneumonia: 5 day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia due to Streptococcus pneumoniae (excluding multi-drug-resistant isolates [MDRSP]), Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, or Chlamydophila pneumoniae [ see Dosage and Administration (2.1) and Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . 1.4 Complicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, Enterococcus faecalis, Streptococcus pyogenes, or Proteus mirabilis [ see Clinical Studies (14.5) ]. 1.6 Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of chronic bacterial prostatitis due to Escherichia coli, Enterococcus faecalis, or methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis [ see Clinical Studies (14.6) ]. 1.7Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) Levofloxacin tablets are indicated for inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) to reduce the incidence or progression of disease following exposure to aerosolized Bacillus anthracis in adults and pediatric patients, 6 months of age and older [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )] . The effectiveness of levofloxacin is based on plasma concentrations achieved in humans, a surrogate endpoint reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit. Levofloxacin has not been tested in humans for the post-exposure prevention of inhalation anthrax. The safety of levofloxacin in adults for durations of therapy beyond 28 days or in pediatric patients for durations of therapy beyond 14 days has not been studied. Prolonged levofloxacin therapy should only be used when the benefit outweighs the risk [see Clinical Studies (14.9) ] . pestis) and prophylaxis for plague in adults and pediatric patients, 6 months of age and older [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ) ]. 1.9 Complicated Urinary Tract Infections: 5 day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections due to Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, or Proteus mirabilis [see Clinical Studies ( 14.7 ) ]. 1.10 Complicated Urinary Tract Infections: 10 day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections (mild to moderate) due to Enterococcus faecalis, Enterobacter cloacae, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Proteus mirabilis, or Pseudomonas aeruginosa [see Clinical Studies ( 14.8 ) ]. 1.11 Acute Pyelonephritis: 5 or 10 day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of acute pyelonephritis caused by Escherichia coli, including cases with concurrent bacteremia [see Clinical Studies ( 14.8 ) ]. Because fluoroquinolones, including levofloxacin tablets, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 - 5.15 )] and for some patients uncomplicated urinary tract infection is self-limiting, reserve levofloxacin tablets for treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infections in patients who have no alternative treatment options. Because fluoroquinolones, including levofloxacin tablets, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 - 5.15 )] and for some patients ABECB is self-limiting, reserve levofloxacin tablets for treatment of ABECB in patients who have no alternative treatment options. 1.14 Acute Bacterial Sinusitis: 5-day and 10 to 14 day Treatment Regimens Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of acute bacterial sinusitis (ABS) due to Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, or Moraxella catarrhalis [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 ) ]. Because fluoroquinolones, including levofloxacin tablets, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 - 5.15 )] and for some patients ABS is self-limiting, reserve levofloxacin tablets for treatment of ABS in patients who have no alternative treatment options. Culture and susceptibility testing Appropriate culture and susceptibility tests should be performed before treatment in order to isolate and identify organisms causing the infection and to determine their susceptibility to levofloxacin [see Microbiology ( 12.4 )]. Pneumonia: Nosocomial ( 1.1 ) and Community Acquired ( 1.2 , 1.3 ) Skin and Skin Structure Infections (SSSI): Complicated ( 1.4 ) and Uncomplicated ( 1.5 ) Chronic bacterial prostatitis ( 1.6 ) Inhalational Anthrax, Post-Exposure in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.7 ) Plague in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.8 ) Urinary Tract Infections (UTI): Complicated ( 1.9 , 1.10 ) and Uncomplicated ( 1.12 ) Acute Pyelonephritis ( 1.11 ) Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis ( 1.13 ) Acute Bacterial Sinusitis ( 1.14 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of levofloxacin and other antibacterial drugs, levofloxacin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria ( 1.15 ). 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Levofloxacin tablets are fluoroquinolone antibacterial indicated in adults (18 years of age and older) with infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria and in pediatric patients where indicated ( 1 , 12.4 ). • Pneumonia: Nosocomial ( 1.1 ) and Community Acquired ( 1.2 , 1.3 ) • Skin and Skin Structure Infections (SSSI): Complicated ( 1.4 ) and Uncomplicated ( 1.5 ) • Chronic bacterial prostatitis ( 1.6 ) • Inhalational Anthrax, Post-Exposure in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.7 ) • Plague in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.8 ) • Urinary Tract Infections (UTI): Complicated ( 1.9 , 1.10 ) and Uncomplicated ( 1.12 ) • Acute Pyelonephritis ( 1.11 ) • Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis ( 1.13 ) • Acute Bacterial Sinusitis ( 1.14 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of levofloxacin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, levofloxacin tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria ( 1.15 ). Where Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a documented or presumptive pathogen, combination therapy with an anti-pseudomonal β-lactam is recommended [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. 1.2 Community-Acquired Pneumonia: 7 to 14 day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pneumoniae (including multi-drug-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae [MDRSP]), Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Moraxella catarrhalis, Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Legionella pneumophila , or Mycoplasma pneumoniae [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. 1.3 Community-Acquired Pneumonia: 5-day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia due to Streptococcus pneumoniae (excluding multi-drug-resistant isolates [MDRSP]), Haemophilus influenzae , Haemophilus parainfluenzae , Mycoplasma pneumoniae , or Chlamydophila pneumoniae [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.3 ) ] . 1.4 Complicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, Enterococcus faecalis, Streptococcus pyogenes, or Proteus mirabilis [see Clinical Studies ( 14.5 )]. 1.6 Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of chronic bacterial prostatitis due to Escherichia coli, Enterococcus faecalis , or methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.6 ) ]. 1.7 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) Levofloxacin tablets are indicated for inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) to reduce the incidence or progression of disease following exposure to aerosolized Bacillus anthracis in adults and pediatric patients, 6 months of age and older [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )]. . The effectiveness of levofloxacin tablets are based on plasma concentrations achieved in humans, a surrogate endpoint reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit. Levofloxacin tablets has not been tested in humans for the post-exposure prevention of inhalation anthrax. pestis) and prophylaxis for plague in adults and pediatric patients, 6 months of age and older [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ) ]. Therefore, approval of this indication was based on an efficacy study conducted in animals [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.10 ) ]. 1.9 Complicated Urinary Tract Infections: 5-day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections due to Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , or Proteus mirabilis [see Clinical Studies ( 14.7 )] . 1.10 Complicated Urinary Tract Infections: 10-day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections (mild to moderate) due to Enterococcus faecalis , Enterobacter cloacae , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Proteus mirabilis , or Pseudomonas aeruginosa [see Clinical Studies ( 14.8 )] . 1.11 Acute Pyelonephritis: 5 or 10-day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of acute pyelonephritis caused by Escherichia coli , including cases with concurrent bacteremia [see Clinical Studies ( 14.7 , 14.8 )] . Because fluoroquinolones, including levofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 - 5.15 ) ] and for some patients uncomplicated urinary tract infection is self-limiting, reserve levofloxacin tablets for treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infections in patients who have no alternative treatment options. 1.13 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic bronchitis (ABECB) due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae , or Moraxella catarrhalis. Because fluoroquinolones, including levofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 - 5.15 )] and for some patients ABECB is self-limiting, reserve levofloxacin tablets for treatment of ABECB in patients who have no alternative treatment options. 1.14 Acute Bacterial Sinusitis: 5-day and 10-14day Treatment Regimens Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of acute bacterial sinusitis (ABS) due to Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, or Moraxella catarrhalis [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )]. Because fluoroquinolones, including levofloxacin have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 - 5.15 )] and for some patients ABS is self-limiting, reserve levofloxacin tablets for treatment of ABS in patients who have no alternative treatment options. Culture and susceptibility testing Appropriate culture and susceptibility tests should be performed before treatment in order to isolate and identify organisms causing the infection and to determine their susceptibility to levofloxacin [ see Microbiology ( 12.4 ) ]. Culture and susceptibility testing performed periodically during therapy will provide information about the continued susceptibility of the pathogens to the antimicrobial agent and also the possible emergence of bacterial resistance 1.2 Community-Acquired Pneumonia: 7 to 14 day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae (including multi-drug-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae [MDRSP]), Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Moraxella catarrhalis, Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Legionella pneumophila, or Mycoplasma pneumoniae [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.2)]. 1.7 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) Levofloxacin tablets are indicated for inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) to reduce the incidence or progression of disease following exposure to aerosolized Bacillus anthracis in adults and pediatric patients, 6 months of age and older [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2)]. 1.8 Plague Levofloxacin tablets are indicated for treatment of plague, including pneumonic and septicemic plague, due to Yersinia pestis ( Y. Because fluoroquinolones, including levofloxacin tablets, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 to 5.15 )] and for some patients uncomplicated urinary tract infection is self-limiting, reserve levofloxacin tablets for treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infections in patients who have no alternative treatment options. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levofloxacin Injection is indicated for the treatment of adults (≥18 years of age) with mild, moderate, and severe infections caused by susceptible isolates of the designated microorganisms in the conditions listed in this section. Levofloxacin Injection is indicated when intravenous administration offers a route of administration advantageous to the patient (e.g., patient cannot tolerate an oral dosage form). Levofloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibacterial indicated in adults (≥18 years of age) with infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria ( 1 , 12.4 ). • Pneumonia: Nosocomial ( 1.1 ) and Community Acquired ( 1.2 , 1.3 ) • Skin and Skin Structure Infections: Complicated ( 1.4 ) and Uncomplicated ( 1.5 ) • Chronic bacterial prostatitis ( 1.6 ) • Inhalational Anthrax, Post-Exposure ( 1.7 ) • Plague ( 1.8 ) • Urinary Tract Infections: Complicated ( 1.9 , 1.10 ) and Uncomplicated ( 1.12 ) • Acute Pyelonephritis ( 1.11 ) • Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis ( 1.13 ) • Acute Bacterial Sinusitis ( 1.14 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Levofloxacin and other antibacterial drugs, Levofloxacin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria ( 1.15 ). 1.1 Nosocomial Pneumonia Levofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of nosocomial pneumonia due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Serratia marcescens , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae , or Streptococcus pneumoniae . Where Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a documented or presumptive pathogen, combination therapy with an anti-pseudomonal β-lactam is recommended [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1.2 Community-Acquired Pneumonia: 7–14 day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pneumoniae (including multi-drug-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae [MDRSP]), Haemophilus influenzae , Haemophilus parainfluenzae , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Moraxella catarrhalis , Chlamydophila pneumoniae , Legionella pneumophila , or Mycoplasma pneumoniae [ see Dosage and Administration (2.1) and Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. MDRSP isolates are isolates resistant to two or more of the following antibacterials: penicillin (MIC ≥2mcg/mL), 2 nd generation cephalosporins, e.g., cefuroxime, macrolides, tetracyclines and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole. 1.3 Community-Acquired Pneumonia: 5-day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia due to Streptococcus pneumoniae (excluding multi-drug-resistant isolates [MDRSP]), Haemophilus influenzae , Haemophilus parainfluenzae , Mycoplasma pneumoniae , or Chlamydophila pneumoniae [ see Dosage and Administration (2.1) and Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. 1.4 Complicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections Levofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus , Enterococcus faecalis , Streptococcus pyogenes , or Proteus mirabilis [ see Clinical Studies (14.5) ]. 1.5 Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections Levofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections (mild to moderate) including abscesses, cellulitis, furuncles, impetigo, pyoderma, wound infections, due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus , or Streptococcus pyogenes . 1.6 Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis Levofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of chronic bacterial prostatitis due to Escherichia coli , Enterococcus faecalis , or methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis [ see Clinical Studies (14.6) ]. 1.7 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) Levofloxacin is indicated for inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) to reduce the incidence or progression of disease following exposure to aerosolized Bacillus anthracis . Prolonged levofloxacin therapy should only be used when the benefit outweighs the risk [ see Dosage and Administration (2.1 , 2.2) and Clinical Studies (14.9) ] . 1.8 Plague Levofloxacin is indicated for treatment of plague, including pneumonic and septicemic plague, due to Yersinia pestis (Y. pestis) and prophylaxis for plague in adults and pediatric patients, 6 months of age and older. Efficacy studies of levofloxacin could not be conducted in humans with plague for ethical and feasibility reasons. Therefore, approval of this indication was based on an efficacy study conducted in animals [see Dosage and Administration (2.1 , 2.2) and Clinical Studies (14.10)] . 1.9 Complicated Urinary Tract Infections: 5-day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections due to Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , or Proteus mirabilis [ see Clinical Studies (14.7) ]. 1.10 Complicated Urinary Tract Infections: 10-day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections (mild to moderate) due to Enterococcus faecalis , Enterobacter cloacae , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Proteus mirabilis , or Pseudomonas aeruginosa [ see Clinical Studies (14.8) ]. 1.11 Acute Pyelonephritis: 5 or 10-day Treatment Regimen Levofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of acute pyelonephritis caused by Escherichia coli , including cases with concurrent bacteremia [ see Clinical Studies (14.7 , 14.8) ]. 1.12 Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infections Levofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infections (mild to moderate) due to Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , or Staphylococcus saprophyticus . Because fluoroquinolones, including levofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1–5.15)] and for some patients uncomplicated urinary tract infection is self-limiting, reserve levofloxacin for treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infections in patients who have no alternative treatment options. 1.13 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis Levofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic bronchitis (ABECB) due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae , Haemophilus parainfluenzae , or Moraxella catarrhalis . Because fluoroquinolones, including levofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1–5.15)] and for some patients ABECB is self-limiting, reserve levofloxacin for treatment of ABECB in patients who have no alternative treatment options. 1.14 Acute Bacterial Sinusitis: 5-day and 10–14 day Treatment Regimens Levofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of acute bacterial sinusitis (ABS) due to Streptococcus pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae , or Moraxella catarrhalis [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . Because fluoroquinolones, including levofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1–5.15)] and for some patients ABS is self-limiting, reserve levofloxacin for treatment of ABS in patients who have no alternative treatment options. Culture and susceptibility testing Appropriate culture and susceptibility tests should be performed before treatment in order to isolate and identify organisms causing the infection and to determine their susceptibility to levofloxacin [see Microbiology (12.4) ] . pestis ) and prophylaxis for plague in adults and pediatric patients, 6 months of age and older [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ) ].
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION • Administer Levofloxacin Tablets to pediatric patients weighing 30 kg and greater only (2.1, 2.2). • Levofloxacin Tablets cannot be administered to pediatric patients who weigh less than 30 kg because of the limitations of the available strengths. Alternative formulations of levofloxacin may be considered for pediatric patients who weigh less than 30 kg (2.2). Dosage in Adult and Pediatric Patients with Creatinine Clearance greater than or equal to 50 mL/minute (2.1. 2.2) Type of Infection Dose Every 24 hours Duration (days) Nosocomial Pneumonia (1.1) 750 mg 7 to 14 Community Acquired Pneumonia (1.2) 500 mg 7 to 14 Community Acquired Pneumonia (1.3) 750 mg 5 Complicated SSSI (1.4) 750 mg 7 to 14 Uncomplicated SSSI (1.5) 500 mg 7 to 10 Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis (1.6) 500 mg 28 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) (1.7) Adults and Pediatric Patients 50 kg or greater Pediatric Patients 30 kg to less than 50 kg (2.2) 500 mg 250 mg every 12 hours 60 60 Plague (1.8) Adults and Pediatric Patients 50 kg or greater Pediatric Patients 30 kg to less than 50 kg (2.2) 500 mg 250 mg every 12 hours 10 to 14 10 to 14 Complicated UTI (1.9) or Acute Pyelonephritis (1.11) 750 mg 5 Complicated UTI (1.10) or Acute Pyelonephritis (1.11) 250 mg 10 Uncomplicated UTI (1.12) 250 mg 3 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis (1.13) 500 mg 7 Acute Bacterial Sinusitis (1.14) 750 mg 5 500 mg 10 to 14 • Adjust dose for creatinine clearance less than 50 mL/minute (2.3, 8.6, 12.3) 2.1 Dosage of Levofloxacin Tablets in Adult Patients with Creatinine Clearance ≥ 50 mL/minute The usual dose of levofloxacin tablets is 250 mg, 500 mg, or 750 mg administered orally every 24 hours, as indicated by infection and described in Table 1. These recommendations apply to patients with creatinine clearance ≥ 50 mL/minute. For patients with creatinine clearance less than 50 mL/min, adjustments to the dosing regimen are required [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )]. Table 1: Dosage of Levofloxacin Tablets in Adult Patients with Creatinine Clearance greater than or equal to 50 mL/minute) Type of Infection* Dosed Every 24 hours Duration (days) † Nosocomial Pneumonia 750 mg 7 to 14 Community Acquired Pneumonia ‡ 500 mg ‡ 7 to 14 ‡ Community Acquired Pneumonia § 750 mg § 5 § Complicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections (SSSI) 750 mg 7 to 14 Uncomplicated SSSI 500 mg 7 to 10 Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg 28 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure), adult and pediatric patients weighing 50 kg Þ,ß or greater Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg Þ,ß 500 mg see Table 2 below (2.2) 60 ß 60 ß Plague, adult and pediatric patients weighing 50 kg à or greater Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg 500 mg see Table 2 below (2.2) 10 to 14 10 to 14 Complicated Urinary Tract Infection (cUTI) or Acute Pyelonephritis (AP) ¶ 750 mg 5 Complicated Urinary Tract Infection (cUTI) or Acute Pyelonephritis (AP) # 250 mg # 10 # Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infection 250 mg 3 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis (ABECB) 500 mg 7 Acute Bacterial Sinusitis (ABS) 750 mg 5 500 mg 10 to 14 * Due to the designated pathogens [see Indications and Usage ( 1)]. † Sequential therapy (intravenous levofloxacin to oral levofloxacin tablets) may be instituted at the discretion of the healthcare provider. ‡ Due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae (including multi-drug-resistant isolates [MDRSP]), Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Moraxella catarrhalis, Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Legionella pneumophila, or Mycoplasma pneumoniae [see Indications and Usage ( 1.2 )]. § Due to Streptococcus pneumoniae (excluding multi-drug-resistant isolates [MDRSP]), Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, or Chlamydophila pneumoniae [see Indications and Usage ( 1.3 )]. ¶ This regimen is indicated for cUTI due to Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Proteus mirabilis and AP due to E. coli, including cases with concurrent bacteremia. # This regimen is indicated for cUTI due to Enterococcus faecalis, Enterococcus cloacae, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Proteus mirabilis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa; and for AP due to E. coli. Þ Drug administration should begin as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure to aerosolized B. anthracis. This indication is based on a surrogate endpoint. Levofloxacin plasma concentrations achieved in humans are reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit [see Clinical Studies ( 14.9 )]. ß The safety of levofloxacin tablets in adults for durations of therapy beyond 28 days or in pediatric patients for durations beyond 14 days has not been studied. An increased incidence of musculoskeletal adverse events compared to controls has been observed in pediatric patients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4), and Clinical Studies ( 14.9 )]. Prolonged levofloxacin tablets therapy should only be used when the benefit outweighs the risk. à Drug administration should begin as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure to Yersinia pestis. Higher doses of levofloxacin tablets typically used for treatment of pneumonia can be used for treatment of plague, if clinically indicated. 2.2 Dosage of Levofloxacin Tablets in Pediatric Patients with Inhalational Anthrax or Plague 2.2 Dosage of Levofloxacin Tablets in Pediatric Patients with Inhalational Anthrax or Plague The dosage of levofloxacin tablets for inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) and plague in pediatric patients who weigh 30 kg or greater is described below in Table 2. levofloxacin tablets cannot be administered to patients who weigh less than 30 kg because of the limitations of the available strength. Alternative formulations of levofloxacin may be considered for pediatric patients who weigh less than 30 kg. Table 2 Levofloxacin Tablets Dosage in Pediatric Patients Weighing 30 kg or greater with Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) and Plague* Type of Infection* Dose Frequency Duration † Inhalational Anthrax (post-exposure) ‡,§ Pediatric patients weighing 50 kg or greater 500 mg every 24 hours 60 days § Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg 250 mg every 12 hours 60 days § Plague ¶ Pediatric patients weighing 50 kg or greater 500 mg every 24 hours 10 to 14 days Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg 250 mg every 12 hours 10 to 14 days * Due to Bacillus anthracis [see Indications and Usage (1.13)] and Yersinia pestis [see Indications and Usage (1.14)]. † Sequential therapy (intravenous levofloxacin injection to oral levofloxacin tablets) may be instituted at the discretion of the healthcare provider. ‡ Begin levofloxacin tablets as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure to aerosolized B. § The safety of levofloxacin tablets in pediatric patients for durations of therapy beyond 14 days has not been studied. [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12), Use in Specific Populations (8.4), and Clinical Studies (14.9)] . Begin levofloxacin tablets as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure to Yersinia pestis. 2.3 Dosage Adjustment in Adults with Renal Impairment Administer levofloxacin tablets with caution in patients with renal impairment. Careful clinical observation and appropriate laboratory studies should be performed prior to and during therapy since elimination of levofloxacin may be reduced in these patients. In patients with renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 50 mL/min), adjustment of the dosage regimen is necessary to avoid the accumulation of levofloxacin due to decreased clearance [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. No adjustment is necessary for patients with a creatinine clearance greater than or equal to 50 mL/minute. Table 3 shows how to adjust dose based on creatinine clearance. Table 3: Dosage Adjustment in Adult Patients with Renal Impairment (Creatinine Clearance less than 50 mL/minute) Creatinine Clearance greater than or equal to 50 mL/minute Creatinine Clearance 20 to 49 mL/minute Creatinine Clearance 10 to 19 mL/minute Hemodialysis or Chronic Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis (CAPD) 750 mg every 24 hours 750 mg every 48 hours 750 mg initial dose, then 500 mg every 48 hours 750 mg initial dose, then 500 mg every 48 hours 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg initial dose, then 250 mg every 24 hours 500 mg initial dose, then 250 mg every 48 hours 500 mg initial dose, then 250 mg every 48 hours 250 mg every 24 hours No dosage adjustment required 250 mg every 48 hours. If treating uncomplicated UTI, then no dosage adjustment is required No information on dosing adjustment is available 2.4 Drug Interaction With Chelation Agents: Antacids, Sucralfate, Metal Cations, Levofloxacin tablets should be administered at least two hours before or two hours after antacids containing magnesium, aluminum, as well as sucralfate, metal cations such as iron, and multivitamin preparations with zinc or didanosine chewable/buffered tablets or the pediatric powder for oral solution [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1) and Patient Counseling Information (17)]. 2.5 Administration Instructions Levofloxacin tablets can be administered without regard to food. Hydration for Patients Receiving Levofloxacin Tablets Adequate hydration of patients receiving levofloxacin should be maintained to prevent the formation of highly concentrated urine. Crystalluria and cylindruria have been reported with quinolones [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer levofloxacin tablets to pediatric patients weighing 30 kg and greater only ( 2.1 , 2.2 ). Alternative formulations of levofloxacin may be considered for pediatric patients who weigh less than 30 kg ( 2.2 ). Dosage in Adult and Pediatric Patients with Creatinine Clearance greater than or equal to 50 mL/minute ( 2.1 , 2.2 ) Type of Infection Dose Every 24 hours Duration (days) Nosocomial Pneumonia ( 1.1 ) 750 mg 7 to 14 Community Acquired Pneumonia ( 1.2 ) 500 mg 7 to 14 Community Acquired Pneumonia ( 1.3 ) 750 mg 5 Complicated SSSI ( 1.4 ) 750 mg 7 to 14 Uncomplicated SSSI ( 1.5 ) 500 mg 7 to 10 Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis ( 1.6 ) 500 mg 28 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) ( 1.7 ) Adults and Pediatric Patients 50 kg or greater 500 mg 60 Pediatric Patients 30 kg to less than 50 kg (2.2) 250 mg every 12 hours 60 Plague ( 1.8 ) Adults and Pediatric Patients 50 kg or greater 500 mg 10 to 14 Pediatric Patients 30 kg to less than 50 kg (2.2) 250 mg every 12 hours 10 to 14 Complicated UTI ( 1.9 ) or Acute Pyelonephritis ( 1.11 ) 750 mg 5 Complicated UTI ( 1.10 ) or Acute Pyelonephritis ( 1.11 ) 250 mg 10 Uncomplicated UTI ( 1.12 ) 250 mg 3 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis ( 1.13 ) 500 mg 7 Acute Bacterial Sinusitis ( 1.14 ) 750 mg 5 500 mg 10 to 14 • Adjust dose for creatinine clearance less than 50 mL/minute ( 2.3 , 8.6 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Dosage of Levofloxacin Tablets in Adult Patients with Creatinine Clearance ≥ 50 mL/minute The usual dose of levofloxacin tablets is 250 mg, 500 mg, or 750 mg administered orally every 24 hours, as indicated by infection and described in Table 1. For patients with creatinine clearance less than 50 mL/min, adjustments to the dosing regimen are required [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] . Table 1 Dosage of Levofloxacin Tablets in Adult Patients with Creatinine Clearance greater than or equal to 50 mL/minute * Due to the designated pathogens [see Indications and Usage ( 1 )] . # This regimen is indicated for cUTI due to Enterococcus faecalis, Enterococcus cloacae, Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae, Proteus mirabilis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa ; and for AP due to E. anthracis . Levofloxacin plasma concentrations achieved in humans are reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit [see Clinical Studies ( 14.9 )] . ß The safety of levofloxacin tabletsin adults for durations of therapy beyond 28 days or in pediatric patients for durations beyond 14 days has not been studied. An increased incidence of musculoskeletal adverse events compared to controls has been observed in pediatric patients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ), and Clinical Studies ( 14.9 )] Prolonged levofloxacin tablets therapy should only be used when the benefit outweighs the risk. à Drug administration should begin as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure to Yersinia pestis . Higher doses of levofloxacin tablet typically used for treatment of pneumonia can be used for treatment of plague, if clinically indicated. Type of Infection * Dosed Every 24 hours Duration (days) † Nosocomial Pneumonia 750 mg 7 to 14 Community Acquired Pneumonia ‡ 500 mg 7 to 14 Community Acquired Pneumonia § 750 mg 5 Complicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections (SSSI) 750 mg 7 to 14 Uncomplicated SSSI 500 mg 7 to 10 Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg 28 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure), adult and pediatric patients weighing 50 kg Þ, ß or greater Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg Þ, ß 500 mg see Table 2 below (2.2) 60 ß 60 ß Plague, adult and pediatric patients weighing 50 kg à or greater Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg à 500 mg see Table 2 below (2.2) 10 to 14 10 to 14 Complicated Urinary Tract Infection (cUTI) or Acute Pyelonephritis (AP) ¶ 750 mg 5 Complicated Urinary Tract Infection (cUTI) or Acute Pyelonephritis (AP) # 250 mg 10 # Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infection 250 mg 3 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis (ABECB) 500 mg 7 Acute Bacterial Sinusitis (ABS) 750 mg 5 500 mg 10 to 14 2.2 Dosage of Levofloxacin Tablets in Pediatric Patients with Inhalational Anthrax or Plague The dosage of levofloxacin tablets for inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) and plague in pediatric patients who weigh 30 kg or greater is described below in Table 2. Table 2 Levofloxacin Tablets Dosage in Pediatric Patients Weighing 30 kg or greater with Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) and Plague* * Due to Bacillus anthracis [see Indications and Usage ( 1.13 )] and Yersinia pestis [see Indications and Usage ( 1.14 )]. § The safety of levofloxacin tabletsin pediatric patients for durations of therapy beyond 14 days has not been studied. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ), and Clinical Studies ( 14.9 )] . Begin levofloxacin tablets as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure to Yersinia pestis . Type of Infection * Dose Frequency Duration † Inhalational Anthrax (post-exposure) ‡,§ Pediatric patients weighing 50 kg or greater 500 mg every 24 hours 60 days § Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg 250 mg every 12 hours 60 days § Plague ¶ Pediatric patients weighing 50 kg or greater 500 mg every 24 hours 10 to 14 days Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg 250 mg every 12 hours 10 to 14 days 2.3 Dosage Adjustment in Adults with Renal Impairment Administer levofloxacin tablets with caution in patients with renal impairment. In patients with renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 50 mL/min), adjustment of the dosage regimen is necessary to avoid the accumulation of levofloxacin due to decreased clearance [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . Table 3 Dosage Adjustment in Adult Patients with Renal Impairment (Creatinine Clearance less than 50 mL/minute) Creatinine Clearance greater than or equal to 50 mL/minute Creatinine Clearance 20 to 49 mL/minute Creatinine Clearance 10 to 19 mL/minute Hemodialysis or Chronic Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis (CAPD) 750 mg every 24 hours 750 mg every 48 hours 750 mg initial dose, then 500 mg every 48 hours 750 mg initial dose, then 500 mg every 48 hours 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg initial dose, then 250 mg every 24 hours 500 mg initial dose, then 250 mg every 48 hours 500 mg initial dose, then 250 mg every 48 hours 250 mg every 24 hours No dosage adjustment required 250 mg every 48 hours. If treating uncomplicated UTI, then no dosage adjustment is required No information on dosing adjustment is available 2.4 Drug Interaction with Chelation Agents: Antacids, Sucralfate, Metal Cations, Multivitamins Levofloxacin tablets should be administered at least two hours before or two hours after antacids containing magnesium, aluminum, as well as sucralfate, metal cations such as iron, and multivitamin preparations with zinc or didanosine chewable/buffered tablets or the pediatric powder for oral solution [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )] . 2.5 Important Administration Instructions Levofloxacin tablets can be administered without regard to food. If patients miss a dose, they should take it as soon as possible anytime up to 8 hours prior to their next scheduled dose. If less than 8 hours remain before the next dose, wait until their next scheduled dose. 2.6 Hydration for Patients Receiving Levofloxacin Tablets Adequate hydration of patients receiving levofloxacin should be maintained to prevent the formation of highly concentrated urine. Crystalluria and cylindruria have been reported with quinolones [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )]. Dosage in Adult and Pediatric Patients with Creatinine Clearance greater than or equal to 50 mL/minute (2.1, 2.2) Type of Infection Dose Every 24 hours Duration (days) Nosocomial Pneumonia (1.1) 750 mg 7 to 14 Community Acquired Pneumonia (1.2) 500 mg 7 to 14 Community Acquired Pneumonia (1.3) 750 mg 5 Complicated SSSI (1.4) 750 mg 7 to 14 Uncomplicated SSSI (1.5) 500 mg 7 to 10 Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis (1.6) 500 mg 28 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) (1.7) Adults and Pediatric Patients 50 kg or greater Pediatric Patients 30 kg to less than 50 kg ( 2.2 ) 500 mg 250 mg every 12 hours 60 60 Plague (1.8) Adults and Pediatric Patients 50 kg or greater Pediatric Patients 30 kg to less than 50 kg (2.2) 500 mg 250 mg every 12 hours 10 to 14 10 to 14 Complicated UTI (1.9) or Acute Pyelonephritis (1.11) 750 mg 5 Complicated UTI (1.10) or Acute Pyelonephritis (1.11) 250 mg 10 Uncomplicated UTI (1.12) 250 mg 3 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis (1.13) 500 mg 7 Acute Bacterial Sinusitis (1.14) 750 mg 5 500 mg 10 to 14 • Adjust dose for creatinine clearance less than 50 mL/minute ( 2.3 , 8.6 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Dosage of Levofloxacin Tablets in Adult Patients with Creatinine Clearance ≥ 50 mL/minute The usual dose of levofloxacin tablets is 250 mg, 500 mg, or 750 mg administered orally every 24 hours, as indicated by infection and described in Table 1. For patients with creatinine clearance less than 50 mL/min, adjustments to the dosing regimen are required [ see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . Table 1: Dosageof Levofloxacin Tablets in Adult Patients with Creatinine Clearance greater than or equal to 50 mL/minute) Type of Infection * Dosed Every 24 hours Duration (days) † Nosocomial Pneumonia 750 mg 7 to 14 Community Acquired Pneumonia ‡ 500 mg ‡ 7 to 14 ‡ Community Acquired Pneumonia § 750 mg § 5 § Complicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections (SSSI) 750 mg 7 to 14 Uncomplicated SSSI 500 mg 7 to 10 Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg 28 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure), adult and pediatric patients weighing 50 kg Þ,ß or greater Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg Þ ß 500 mg see Table 2 below (2.2) 60 ß 60 ß Plague, adult and pediatric patients weighing 50 kg à or greater Pediatric Patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg 500 mg see Table 2 below (2.2) 10 to 14 10 to 14 Complicated Urinary Tract Infection (cUTI) or Acute Pyelonephritis (AP) ¶ 750 mg 5 Complicated Urinary Tract Infection (cUTI) or Acute Pyelonephritis (AP) # 250 mg # 10 # Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infection 250 mg 3 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis (ABECB) 500 mg 7 Acute Bacterial Sinusitis (ABS) 750 mg 5 500 mg 10 to 14 * Due to the designated pathogens [see Indications and Usage (1) ]. ‡ Due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae (including multi-drug-resistant isolates [MDRSP]), Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Moraxella catarrhalis, Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Legionella pneumophila, or Mycoplasma pneumoniae [see Indications and Usage ( 1.2 ) ]. § Due to Streptococcus pneumoniae (excluding multi-drug-resistant isolates [MDRSP]), Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, or Chlamydophila pneumoniae [see Indications and Usage ( 1.3 ) ]. ¶This regimen is indicated for cUTI due to Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Proteus mirabilis and AP due to E. ÞDrug administration should begin as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure to aerosolized B. Levofloxacin plasma concentrations achieved in humans are reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit [see Clinical Studies (14.9) ]. ßThe safety of levofloxacin in adults for durations of therapy beyond 28 days or in pediatric patients for durations beyond 14 days has not been studied. An increased incidence of musculoskeletal adverse events compared to controls has been observed in pediatric patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) , Use in Specific Populations (8.4) , and Clinical Studies (14.9) ]. Prolonged levofloxacin therapy should only be used when the benefit outweighs the risk. Higher doses of levofloxacin typically used for treatment of pneumonia can be used for treatment of plague, if clinically indicated. 2.2 Dosage of Levofloxacin Tablets in Pediatric Patients with Inhalational Anthrax or Plague The dosage of levofloxacin tablets for inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) and plague in pediatric patients who weigh 30 kg or greater is described below in Table 2. Alternative formulations of levofloxacin may be considered for pediatric patients who weigh less than 30 kg.. Table 2: Levofloxacin Tablets Dosage in Pediatric Patients Weighing 30 kg or greater with Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) and Plague* Type of Infection * Dose Frequency Duration † Inhalational Anthrax (post-exposure) ‡,§ Pediatric patients weighing 50 kg or greater 500 mg every 24 hours every 24 hours 60 days § Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg 250 mg every 12 hours 60 days § Plague ¶ Pediatric patients weighing 50 kg or greater 500 mg every 24 hours 10 to 14 days Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg 250 mg every 12 hours 10 to 14 days * Due to Bacillus anthracis [see Indications and Usage (1.13) ] and Yersinia pestis [see Indications and Usage (1.14) ]. § The safety of levofloxacin in pediatric patients for durations of therapy beyond 14 days has not been studied [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ), and Clinical Studies ( 14.9 )]. 2.3 Dosage Adjustment in Adults with Renal Impairment Administer levofloxacin with caution in patients with renal impairment. In patients with renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 50 mL/min), adjustment of the dosage regimen is necessary to avoid the accumulation of levofloxacin due to decreased clearance [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. If treating uncomplicated UTI, then no dosage adjustment is required No information on dosing adjustment is available 2.4 Drug Interaction With Chelation Agents: Antacids, Sucralfate, Metal Cations, Multivitamins Levofloxacin tablets should be administered at least two hours before or two hours after antacids containing magnesium, aluminum, as well as sucralfate, metal cations such as iron, and multivitamin preparations with zinc or didanosine chewable/buffered tablets or the pediatric powder for oral solution [see Drug Interactions (7.1) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17) ]. Crystalluria and cylindruria have been reported with quinolones [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )] 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer levofloxacin tablets to pediatric patients weighing 30 kg and greater only ( 2.1 , 2.2 ). Levofloxacin tablets cannot be administered to pediatric patients who weigh less than 30 kg because of the limitations of the available strengths. Dosage in Adult and Pediatric Patients with Creatinine Clearance greater than or equal to 50 mL/minute ( 2.1 , 2.2 ) Type of Infection Dose Every 24 hours Duration (days) Nosocomial Pneumonia ( 1.1 ) 750 mg 7 to 14 Community Acquired Pneumonia ( 1.2 ) 500 mg 7 to 14 Community Acquired Pneumonia ( 1.3 ) 750 mg 5 Complicated SSSI ( 1.4 ) 750 mg 7 to 14 Uncomplicated SSSI ( 1.5 ) 500 mg 7 to 10 Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis ( 1.6 ) 500 mg 28 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) ( 1.7 ) Adults and Pediatric Patients 50 kg or greater 500 mg 60 Pediatric Patients 30 kg to less than 50 kg (2.2) 250 mg every 12 hours 60 Plague ( 1.8 ) Adults and Pediatric Patients 50 kg or greater 500 mg 10 to 14 Pediatric Patients 30 kg to less than 50 kg (2.2) 250 mg every 12 hours 10 to 14 Complicated UTI ( 1.9 ) or Acute Pyelonephritis ( 1.11 ) 750 mg 5 Complicated UTI ( 1.10 ) or Acute Pyelonephritis ( 1.11 ) 250 mg 10 Uncomplicated UTI ( 1.12 ) 250 mg 3 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis ( 1.13 ) 500 mg 7 Acute Bacterial Sinusitis ( 1.14 ) 750 mg 5 500 mg 10 to 14 Adjust dose for creatinine clearance less than 50 mL/minute ( 2.3 , 8.6 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Dosage of Levofloxacin Tablets in Adult Patients with Creatinine Clearance ≥ 50 mL/minute The usual dose of levofloxacin tablets is 250 mg, 500 mg, or 750 mg administered orally every 24 hours, as indicated by infection and described in Table 1. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION • Administer levofloxacin tablets to pediatric patients weighing 30 kg and greater only ( 2.1 , 2.2 ). Dosage in Adult and Pediatric Patients with Creatinine Clearance greater than or equal to 50 mL/minute ( 2.1 . 2.2 ) Type of Infection Dose Every 24 hours Duration (days) Nosocomial Pneumonia ( 1.1 ) 750 mg 7 to 14 Community Acquired Pneumonia ( 1.2 ) 500 mg 7 to 14 Community Acquired Pneumonia ( 1.3 ) 750 mg 5 Complicated SSSI ( 1.4 ) 750 mg 7 to 14 Uncomplicated SSSI ( 1.5 ) 500 mg 7 to 10 Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis ( 1.6 ) 500 mg 28 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) ( 1.7 ) Adults and Pediatric Patients 50 kg or greater Pediatric Patients 30 kg to less than 50 kg ( 2.2 ) 500 mg 250 mg every 12 hours 60 60 Plague ( 1.8 ) Adults and Pediatric Patients 50 kg or greater Pediatric Patients 30 kg to less than 50 kg ( 2.2 ) 500 mg 250 mg every 12 hours 10 to 14 10 to 14 Complicated UTI ( 1.9 ) or Acute Pyelonephritis ( 1.11 ) 750 mg 5 Complicated UTI ( 1.10 ) or Acute Pyelonephritis ( 1.11 ) 250 mg 10 Uncomplicated UTI ( 1.12 ) 250 mg 3 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis ( 1.13 ) 500 mg 7 Acute Bacterial Sinusitis ( 1.14 ) 750 mg 5 500 mg 10 to 14 • Adjust dose for creatinine clearance less than 50 mL/minute ( 2.3 , 8.6 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Dosage of Levofloxacin Tablets in Adult Patients with Creatinine Clearance > 50mL/minute The usual dose of Levofloxacin Tablets is 250 mg, 500 mg, or 750 mg administered orally every 24 hours, as indicated by infection and described in Table 1. For patients with creatinine clearance less than 50 mL/min, adjustments to the dosing regimen are required [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ) ]. Table 1: Dosage of Levofloxacin Tablets in Adult Patients with Creatinine Clearance greater than or equal to 50 mL/minute) Type of Infection* Dosed Every 24 hours Duration (days) † Nosocomial Pneumonia 750 mg 7 to 14 Community Acquired Pneumonia ‡ 500 mg ‡ 7 to 14 ‡ Community Acquired Pneumonia § 750 mg § 5 § Complicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections (SSSI) 750 mg 7 to 14 Uncomplicated SSSI 500 mg 7 to 10 Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg 28 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure), adult and pediatric patients weighing 50 kg Þ,ß or greater Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg Þ,ß 500 mg see Table 2 below (2.2) 60 ß 60 ß Plague, adult and pediatric patients weighing 50 kg à or greater Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg 500 mg see Table 2 below (2.2) 10 to 14 10 to 14 Complicated Urinary Tract Infection (cUTI) or Acute Pyelonephritis (AP) ¶ 750 mg 5 Complicated Urinary Tract Infection (cUTI) or Acute Pyelonephritis (AP) # 250 mg # 10 # Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infection 250 mg 3 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis (ABECB) 500 mg 7 Acute Bacterial Sinusitis (ABS) 750 mg 5 500 mg 10 to 14 * Due to the designated pathogens [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ]. ‡ Due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae (including multi-drug-resistant isolates [MDRSP]), Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Moraxella catarrhalis, Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Legionella pneumophila, or Mycoplasma pneumoniae [ see Indications and Usage ( 1.2 ) ]. § Due to Streptococcus pneumoniae (excluding multi-drug-resistant isolates [MDRSP]), Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, or Chlamydophila pneumoniae [ see Indications and Usage ( 1.3 ) ]. ¶ This regimen is indicated for cUTI due to Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae , Proteus mirabilis and AP due to E. coli , including cases with concurrent bacteremia. # This regimen is indicated for cUTI due to Enterococcus faecalis, Enterococcus cloacae, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Proteus mirabilis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa ; and for AP due to E. coli . Levofloxacin plasma concentrations achieved in humans are reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.9) ]. An increased incidence of musculoskeletal adverse events compared to controls has been observed in pediatric patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ), and Clinical Studies ( 14.9 ) ]. Table 2: Levofloxacin Tablets Dosage in Pediatric Patients Weighing 30 kg or greater with Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) and Plague* Type of Infection* Dose Frequency Duration † Inhalational Anthrax (post-exposure) ‡,§ Pediatric patients weighing 50 kg or greater 500 mg every 24 hours 60 days § Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50kg 250 mg every 12 hours 60 days § Plague ¶ Pediatric patients weighing 50 kg or greater 500 mg every 24 hours 10 to 14 days Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg 250 mg every 12 hours 10 to 14 days * Due to Bacillus anthracis [see Indications and Usage ( 1.13 )] and Yersinia pestis [see Indications and Usage ( 1.14 ) ]. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ), and Clinical Studies ( 14.9 ) ]. No adjustment is necessary for patients with a creatinine clearance greater than or equal to 50mL/minute Table 3 shows how to adjust dose based on creatinine clearance. Table 3: Dosage Adjustment in Adult Patients with Renal Impairment (Creatinine Clearance less than 50 mL/minute) Creatinine Clearance greater than or equal to 50 mL/ minute Creatinine Clearance 20 to 49 mL/minute Creatinine Clearance 10 to 19 mL/minute Hemodialysis or Chronic Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis (CAPD) 750 mg every 24 hours 750 mg every 48 hours 750 mg initial dose, then 500 mg every 48 hours 750 mg initial dose, then 500 mg every 48 hours 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg initial dose, then 250 mg every 24 hours 500 mg initial dose, then 250 mg every 48 hours 500 mg initial dose, then 250 mg every 48 hours 250 mg every 24 hours No dosage adjustment required 250 mg every 48 hours. If treating uncomplicated UTI, then no dosage adjustment is required No information on dosing adjustment is available 2.4 Drug Interaction With Chelation Agents: Antacids, Sucralfate, Metal Cations, Multivitamins Levofloxacin Tablets should be administered at least two hours before or two hours after antacids containing magnesium, aluminum, as well as sucralfate, metal cations such as iron, and multivitamin preparations with zinc or didanosine chewable/buffered tablets or the pediatric powder for oral solution [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17)] . 2.5 Important Administration Instructions Levofloxacin can be administered without regard to food. Crystalluria and cylindruria have been reported with quinolones [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17) ]. Dosage in Adult and Pediatric Patients with Creatinine Clearance greater than or equal to 50 mL/minute (2.1, 2.2) Type of Infection Dose Every 24 hours Duration (days) Nosocomial Pneumonia (1.1) 750 mg 7 to 14 Community Acquired Pneumonia (1.2) 500 mg 7 to 14 Community Acquired Pneumonia (1.3) 750 mg 5 Complicated SSSI (1.4) 750 mg 7 to 14 Uncomplicated SSSI (1.5) 500 mg 7 to 10 Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis (1.6) 500 mg 28 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) (1.7) Adults and Pediatric Patients 50 kg or greater Pediatric Patients 30 kg to less than 50 kg (2.2) 500 mg 250 mg every 12 hours 60 60 Plague (1.8) Adults and Pediatric Patients 50 kg or greater Pediatric Patients 30 kg to less than 50 kg (2.2) 500 mg 250 mg every 12 hours 10 to 14 10 to 14 Complicated UTI (1.9) or Acute Pyelonephritis (1.11) 750 mg 5 Complicated UTI (1.10) or Acute Pyelonephritis (1.11) 250 mg 10 Uncomplicated UTI (1.12) 250 mg 3 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis (1.13) 500 mg 7 Acute Bacterial Sinusitis (1.14) 750 mg 5 500 mg 10 to 14 • Adjust dose for creatinine clearance less than 50 mL/minute ( 2.3 , 8.6 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Dosage of Levofloxacin Tablets in Adult Patients with Creatinine Clearance ≥ 50 mL/minute The usual dose of levofloxacin tablets is 250 mg, 500 mg, or 750 mg administered orally every 24 hours, as indicated by infection and described in Table 1. Table 2 Levofloxacin Tablets Dosage in Pediatric Patients Weighing 30 kg or greater with Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) and Plague* Type of Infection * Dose Frequency Duration † Inhalational Anthrax (post-exposure) ‡,§ Pediatric patients weighing 50 kg or greater 500 mg every 24 hours 60 days § Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg 250 mg every 12 hours 60 days § Plague ¶ Pediatric patients weighing 50 kg or greater 500 mg every 24 hours 10 to 14 days Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg 250 mg every 12 hours 10 to 14 days * Due to Bacillus anthracis [see Indications and Usage ( 1.13 )] and Yersinia pestis [see Indications and Usage ( 1.14 )]. If treating uncomplicated UTI, then no dosage adjustment is required No information on dosing adjustment is available 2.4 Drug Interaction With Chelation Agents: Antacids, Sucralfate, Metal Cations, Multivitamins Levofloxacin tablets should be administered at least two hours before or two hours after antacids containing magnesium, aluminum, as well as sucralfate, metal cations such as iron, and multivitamin preparations with zinc or didanosine chewable/buffered tablets or the pediatric powder for oral solution [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1) and Patient Counseling Information (17)]. Crystalluria and cylindruria have been reported with quinolones [see Adverse Reactions (6.1 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Dosage in patients with normal renal function ( 2.1 ) Type of Infection Dose Every 24 hours Duration (days) Nosocomial Pneumonia ( 1.1 ) 750 mg 7–14 Community Acquired Pneumonia ( 1.2 ) 500 mg 7–14 Community Acquired Pneumonia ( 1.3 ) 750 mg 5 Complicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections (SSSI) ( 1.4 ) 750 mg 7–14 Uncomplicated SSSI ( 1.5 ) 500 mg 7–10 Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis ( 1.6 ) 500 mg 28 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) ( 1.7 ) Adults and Pediatric Patients >50 kg 500 mg 60 Pediatric Patients <50 kg and ≥6 months of age 8 mg/kg BID (not to exceed 250 mg/dose) 60 Plague ( 1.8 ) Adults and Pediatric Patients >50 kg 500 mg 10 to 14 Pediatric Patients <50 kg and ≥6 months of age 8 mg/kg BID (not to exceed 250 mg/dose) 10 to 14 Complicated Urinary Tract Infection ( 1.9 ) or Acute Pyelonephritis ( 1.11 ) 750 mg 5 Complicated Urinary Tract Infection ( 1.10 ) or Acute Pyelonephritis ( 1.11 ) 250 mg 10 Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infection ( 1.12 ) 250 mg 3 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis ( 1.13 ) 500 mg 7 Acute Bacterial Sinusitis ( 1.14 ) 750 mg 5 500 mg 10–14 • Adjust dose for creatinine clearance <50 mL/min ( 2.3 , 8.6 , 12.3 ) • IV Injection Premix: Slow IV infusion only, over 60 or 90 minutes depending on dose. Avoid rapid or bolus IV ( 2.5 ) • Do not mix with other medications in IV line ( 2.6 ) 2.1 Dosage in Adult Patients with Normal Renal Function The usual dose of Levofloxacin Injection is 250 mg or 500 mg administered by slow infusion over 60 minutes every 24 hours or 750 mg administered by slow infusion over 90 minutes every 24 hours, as indicated by infection and described in Table 1. These recommendations apply to patients with creatinine clearance ≥50 mL/min. For patients with creatinine clearance <50 mL/min, adjustments to the dosing regimen are required [ see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. Table 1: Dosage in Adult Patients with Normal Renal Function (creatinine clearance ≥50 mL/min) Type of Infection Due to the designated pathogens [ see Indications and Usage (1) ]. Dosed Every 24 hours Duration (days) Sequential therapy (intravenous to oral) may be instituted at the discretion of the physician. Nosocomial Pneumonia 750 mg 7–14 Community Acquired Pneumonia Due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae (including multi-drug-resistant isolates [MDRSP]), Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Moraxella catarrhalis, Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Legionella pneumophila , or Mycoplasma pneumoniae [ see Indications and Usage (1.2) ]. 500 mg 7–14 Community Acquired Pneumonia Due to Streptococcus pneumoniae (excluding multi-drug-resistant isolates [MDRSP]), Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, or Chlamydophila pneumoniae [ see Indications and Usage (1.3) ]. 750 mg 5 Complicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections (SSSI) 750 mg 7–14 Uncomplicated SSSI 500 mg 7–10 Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg 28 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure), adult and pediatric patients >50 kg Drug administration should begin as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure to aerosolized B. Levofloxacin plasma concentrations achieved in humans are reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit [ see Clinical Studies (14.9) ]. , The safety of levofloxacin in adults for durations of therapy beyond 28 days or in pediatric patients for durations beyond 14 days has not been studied. An increased incidence of musculoskeletal adverse events compared to controls has been observed in pediatric patients [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) , Use in Specific Populations (8.4) , and Clinical Studies (14.9) ]. 500 mg 60 Pediatric patients <50 kg and ≥6 months of age , see Table 2 below (2.2) 60 Plague, adult and pediatric patients >50 kg Drug administration should begin as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure to Yersinia pestis . 500 mg 10 to 14 Pediatric patients <50 kg and ≥6 months of age see Table 2 below (2.2) 10 to 14 Complicated Urinary Tract Infection (cUTI) or Acute Pyelonephritis (AP) This regimen is indicated for cUTI due to Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Proteus mirabilis and AP due to E. 750 mg 5 Complicated Urinary Tract Infection (cUTI) or Acute Pyelonephritis (AP) This regimen is indicated for cUTI due to Enterococcus faecalis, Enterococcus cloacae, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Proteus mirabilis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa ; and for AP due to E. 250 mg 10 Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infection 250 mg 3 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis (ABECB) 500 mg 7 Acute Bacterial Sinusitis (ABS) 750 mg 5 500 mg 10 to 14 2.2 Dosage in Pediatric Patients The dosage in pediatric patients ≥6 months of age is described below in Table 2. Table 2: Dosage in Pediatric Patients ≥6 months of age Type of Infection Due to Bacillus anthracis [ see Indications and Usage (1.13) ] and Yersinia pestis [see Indications and Usage (1.14)]. Dose Freq. Once every Duration Sequential therapy (intravenous to oral) may be instituted at the discretion of the physician. Inhalational Anthrax (post-exposure) Drug administration should begin as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure to aerosolized B. Levofloxacin plasma concentrations achieved in humans are reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit [ see Clinical Studies (14.9) ] , The safety of levofloxacin in pediatric patients for durations of therapy beyond 14 days has not been studied. An increased incidence of musculoskeletal adverse events compared to controls has been observed in pediatric patients [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) , Use in Specific Populations (8.4) , and Clinical Studies (14.9) ] . Pediatric patients >50 kg 500 mg 24 hours 60 days Pediatric patients <50 kg and ≥6 months of age 8 mg/kg (not to exceed 250 mg per dose) 12 hours 60 days Plague Drug administration should begin as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure to Yersinia pestis . Pediatric patients >50 kg 500 mg 24 hours 10 to 14 days Pediatric patients <50 kg and ≥6 months of age 8 mg/kg (not to exceed 250 mg per dose) 12 hours 10 to 14 days 2.3 Dosage Adjustment in Adults with Renal Impairment Administer levofloxacin with caution in the presence of renal insufficiency. Careful clinical observation and appropriate laboratory studies should be performed prior to and during therapy since elimination of levofloxacin may be reduced. No adjustment is necessary for patients with a creatinine clearance ≥50 mL/min. In patients with impaired renal function (creatinine clearance <50 mL/min), adjustment of the dosage regimen is necessary to avoid the accumulation of levofloxacin due to decreased clearance [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. Table 3: Dosage Adjustment in Adult Patients with Renal Impairment (creatinine clearance < 50 mL/min) Dosage in Normal Renal Function Every 24 hours Creatinine Clearance 20 to 49 mL/min Creatinine Clearance 10 to 19 mL/min Hemodialysis or Chronic Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis (CAPD) 750 mg 750 mg every 48 hours 750 mg initial dose, then 500 mg every 48 hours 750 mg initial dose, then 500 mg every 48 hours 500 mg 500 mg initial dose, then 250 mg every 24 hours 500 mg initial dose, then 250 mg every 48 hours 500 mg initial dose, then 250 mg every 48 hours 250 mg No dosage adjustment required 250 mg every 48 hours. If treating uncomplicated UTI, then no dosage adjustment is required No information on dosing adjustment is available 2.4 Drug Interaction With Chelation Agents: Antacids, Sucralfate, Metal Cations, Multivitamins Levofloxacin Injection should not be co-administered with any solution containing multivalent cations, e.g., magnesium, through the same intravenous line [ see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ]. 2.5 Administration Instructions Levofloxacin Injection Caution: Rapid or bolus intravenous infusion of levofloxacin has been associated with hypotension and must be avoided. Levofloxacin Injection should be infused intravenously slowly over a period of not less than 60 or 90 minutes, depending on the dosage. Levofloxacin Injection should be administered only by intravenous infusion. It is not for intramuscular, intrathecal, intraperitoneal, or subcutaneous administration. Hydration for Patients Receiving Levofloxacin Injection Adequate hydration of patients receiving intravenous levofloxacin should be maintained to prevent the formation of highly concentrated urine. Crystalluria and cylindruria have been reported with quinolones [ see Adverse Reactions (6.1) and Patient Counseling Information (17) ]. 2.6 Preparation of Intravenous Product Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Because only limited data are available on the compatibility of Levofloxacin Injection with other intravenous substances, additives or other medications should not be added to Levofloxacin Injection Premix in Single-Use Flexible Containers, or infused simultaneously through the same intravenous line. If the same intravenous line is used for sequential infusion of several different drugs, the line should be flushed before and after infusion of Levofloxacin Injection with an infusion solution compatible with Levofloxacin Injection and with any other drug(s) administered via this common line. Levofloxacin Injection Premix in Single-Use Flexible Containers (5 mg/mL) Levofloxacin Injection is supplied in flexible containers within a foil overwrap. These contain a premixed, ready to use levofloxacin solution in 5% dextrose (D 5 W) for single-use. The 100 mL premixed flexible containers contain either 250 mg/50 mL or 500 mg/100 mL of levofloxacin solution. The 250 mL flexible container contains 750 mg/150 mL of levofloxacin solution. The concentration of each container is 5 mg/mL. No further dilution of these preparations is necessary. Because the premix flexible containers are for single-use only, any unused portion should be discarded. Instructions for the Use of Levofloxacin Injection Premix in Flexible Containers: 1. Tear outer wrap at the notch and remove solution container. 2. Check the container for minute leaks by squeezing the inner bag firmly. If leaks are found, or if the seal is not intact, discard the solution, as the sterility may be compromised. 3. Do not use if the solution is cloudy or a precipitate is present. 4. Use sterile equipment. 5. WARNING: Do not use flexible containers in series connections. Such use could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container is complete. Preparation for Administration: 1. Close flow control clamp of administration set. Remove cover from port at bottom of container. Insert piercing pin of administration set into port with a twisting motion until the pin is firmly seated. NOTE: See full directions on administration set carton. Suspend container from hanger. Squeeze and release drip chamber to establish proper fluid level in chamber during infusion of Levofloxacin Injection Premix in Flexible Containers. 6. Open flow control clamp to expel air from set. Close clamp. 7. Regulate rate of administration with flow control clamp. a Drug administration should begin as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure to Yersinia pestis . If treating uncomplicated UTI, then no dosage adjustment is required No information on dosing adjustment is available 2.4 Drug Interaction with Chelation Agents: Antacids, Sucralfate, Metal Cations, Multivitamins Levofloxacin tablets should be administered at least two hours before or two hours after antacids containing magnesium, aluminum, as well as sucralfate, metal cations such as iron, and multivitamin preparations with zinc or didanosine chewable/buffered tablets [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )] .
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Levofloxacin tablets are contraindicated in persons with known hypersensitivity to levofloxacin, or other quinolone antibacterials [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Known hypersensitivity to levofloxacin or other quinolones ( 4 , 5.7 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to levofloxacin or other quinolones ( 4 , 5.7 ) Levofloxacin tablet is contraindicated in persons with known hypersensitivity to levofloxacin, or other quinolone antibacterials [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Levofloxacin tablets are contraindicated in persons with known hypersensitivity to levofloxacin, or other quinolone antibacterials [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3 )]. Known hypersensitivity to levofloxacin tablets or other quinolones ( 4 , 5.7 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Levofloxacin is contraindicated in persons with known hypersensitivity to levofloxacin, or other quinolone antibacterials [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ].
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Interacting Drug Interaction Multivalent cation-containing products including antacids, metal cations or didanosine Absorption of levofloxacin is decreased when the tablets are taken within 2 hours of these products. (2.4, 7.1) Warfarin Effect may be enhanced. Monitor prothrombin time, INR and watch for bleeding (7.2) Antidiabetic agents Carefully monitor blood glucose (5.13, 7.3) 7.1 Chelation Agents: Antacids, Sucralfate, Metal Cations, Multivitamins While the chelation by divalent cations is less marked than with other fluoroquinolones, concurrent administration of levofloxacin tablets with antacids containing magnesium, or aluminum, as well as sucralfate, metal cations such as iron, and multivitamin preparations with zinc may interfere with the gastrointestinal absorption of levofloxacin, resulting in systemic levels considerably lower than desired. Tablets with antacids containing magnesium, aluminum, as well as sucralfate, metal cations such as iron, and multivitamin preparations with zinc or didanosine may substantially interfere with the gastrointestinal absorption of levofloxacin, resulting in systemic levels considerably lower than desired. These agents should be taken at least two hours before or two hours after oral levofloxacin administration. 7.2 Warfarin No significant effect of levofloxacin on the peak plasma concentrations, AUC, and other disposition parameters for R- and S- warfarin was detected in a clinical study involving healthy volunteers. Similarly, no apparent effect of warfarin on levofloxacin absorption and disposition was observed. However, there have been reports during the postmarketing experience in patients that levofloxacin enhances the effects of warfarin. Elevations of the prothrombin time in the setting of concurrent warfarin and levofloxacin use have been associated with episodes of bleeding. Prothrombin time, International Normalized Ratio (INR), or other suitable anticoagulation tests should be closely monitored if levofloxacin is administered concomitantly with warfarin. Patients should also be monitored for evidence of bleeding [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.3) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17)]. 7.3 Antidiabetic Agents Disturbances of blood glucose, including hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia, have been reported in patients treated concomitantly with fluoroquinolones and an antidiabetic agent. Therefore, careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended when these agents are co-administered [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6.2), and Patient Counseling Information ( 17)]. 7.4 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs The concomitant administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug with a fluoroquinolone, including levofloxacin, may increase the risk of CNS stimulation and convulsive seizures [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. 7.5 Theophylline No significant effect of levofloxacin on the plasma concentrations, AUC, and other disposition parameters for theophylline was detected in a clinical study involving healthy volunteers. Similarly, no apparent effect of theophylline on levofloxacin absorption and disposition was observed. However, concomitant administration of other fluoroquinolones with theophylline has resulted in prolonged elimination half-life, elevated serum theophylline levels, and a subsequent increase in the risk of theophylline-related adverse reactions in the patient population. Therefore, theophylline levels should be closely monitored and appropriate dosage adjustments made when levofloxacin is co-administered. Adverse reactions, including seizures, may occur with or without an elevation in serum theophylline levels [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4)]. 7.6 Cyclosporine No significant effect of levofloxacin on the peak plasma concentrations, AUC, and other disposition parameters for cyclosporine was detected in a clinical study involving healthy volunteers. However, elevated serum levels of cyclosporine have been reported in the patient population when co-administered with some other fluoroquinolones. Levofloxacin C max and k e were slightly lower while T max and t1/2 were slightly longer in the presence of cyclosporine than those observed in other studies without concomitant medication. The differences, however, are not considered to be clinically significant. Therefore, no dosage adjustment is required for levofloxacin or cyclosporine when administered concomitantly. 7.7 Digoxin No significant effect of levofloxacin on the peak plasma concentrations, AUC, and other disposition parameters for digoxin was detected in a clinical study involving healthy volunteers. Levofloxacin absorption and disposition kinetics were similar in the presence or absence of digoxin. Therefore, no dosage adjustment for levofloxacin or digoxin is required when administered concomitantly. 7.8 Probenecid and Cimetidine No significant effect of probenecid or cimetidine on the Cmax of levofloxacin was observed in a clinical study involving healthy volunteers. The AUC and t 1/2 of levofloxacin were higher while CL/F and CLR were lower during concomitant treatment of levofloxacin with probenecid or cimetidine compared to levofloxacin alone. However, these changes do not warrant dosage adjustment for levofloxacin when probenecid or cimetidine is co-administered. 7.9 Interactions with Laboratory or Diagnostic Testing Some fluoroquinolones, including levofloxacin, may produce false-positive urine screening results for opiates using commercially available immunoassay kits. Confirmation of positive opiate screens by more specific methods may be necessary. ( 2.4 , 7.1 ) Warfarin Effect may be enhanced. Monitor prothrombin time, INR and watch for bleeding ( 7.2 ) Antidiabetic agents Carefully monitor blood glucose ( 5.13 , 7.3 ) 7.1 Chelation Agents: Antacids, Sucralfate, Metal Cations, Multivitamins While the chelation by divalent cations is less marked than with other fluoroquinolones, concurrent administration of levofloxacin tablets with antacids containing magnesium, or aluminum, as well as sucralfate, metal cations such as iron, and multivitamin preparations with zinc may interfere with the gastrointestinal absorption of levofloxacin, resulting in systemic levels considerably lower than desired. Patients should also be monitored for evidence of bleeding [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.3 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )]. Therefore, careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended when these agents are co-administered [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )]. Adverse reactions, including seizures, may occur with or without an elevation in serum theophylline levels [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. Levofloxacin C max and k e were slightly lower while T max and t ½ were slightly longer in the presence of cyclosporine than those observed in other studies without concomitant medication. 7.8 Probenecid and Cimetidine No significant effect of probenecid or cimetidine on the C max of levofloxacin was observed in a clinical study involving healthy volunteers. The AUC and t ½ of levofloxacin were higher while CL/F and CL R were lower during concomitant treatment of levofloxacin with probenecid or cimetidine compared to levofloxacin alone. Monitor prothrombin time, INR, watch for bleeding (7.2) Antidiabetic agents Carefully monitor blood glucose ( 5.13 , 7.3 ) 7.1 Chelation Agents: Antacids, Sucralfate, Metal Cations, Multivitamins While the chelation by divalent cations is less marked than with other fluoroquinolones, concurrent administration of levofloxacin tablets with antacids containing magnesium, or aluminum, as well as sucralfate, metal cations such as iron, and multivitamin preparations with zinc may interfere with the gastrointestinal absorption of levofloxacin, resulting in systemic levels considerably lower than desired. Tablets with antacids containing magnesium, aluminum, as well as sucralfate, metal cations such as iron, and multivitamins preparations with zinc or didanosine may substantially interfere with the gastrointestinal absorption of levofloxacin, resulting in systemic levels considerably lower than desired. Patients should also be monitored for evidence of bleeding [see Adverse Reactions (6.3 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ]. Therefore, careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended when these agents are co-administered [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 ), Adverse Reactions (6.2) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ]. 7.4 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs The concomitant administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug with a fluoroquinolone, including levofloxacin, may increase the risk of CNS stimulation and convulsive seizures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] 7.5 Theophylline No significant effect of levofloxacin on the plasma concentrations, AUC, and other disposition parameters for theophylline was detected in a clinical study involving healthy volunteers. Adverse reactions, including seizures, may occur with or without an elevation in serum theophylline levels [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] 7.6 Cyclosporine No significant effect of levofloxacin on the peak plasma concentrations, AUC, and other disposition parameters for cyclosporine was detected in a clinical study involving healthy volunteers. Levofloxacin Cmax and k e were slightly lower while Tmax and t ½ were slightly longer in the presence of cyclosporine than those observed in other studies without concomitant medication. However, these changes do not warrant dosage adjustment for levofloxacinwhen probenecid or cimetidine is co-administered. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Interacting Drug Interacting Drug Interaction Interaction Interacting Drug Interaction Multivalent cation-containing products including antacids, metal cations or didanosine Absorption of levofloxacin is decreased when the tablets are taken within 2 hours of these products ( 2.4 , 7.1 ) Warfarin Effect may be enhanced. Patients should also be monitored for evidence of bleeding [see Adverse Reactions (6.3) andPatient Counseling Information ( 17 )]. Therefore, careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended when these agents are co-administered [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 ); Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )] 7.4 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs The concomitant administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug with a fluoroquinolone, including levofloxacin, may increase the risk of CNS stimulation and convulsive seizures [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. Therefore, careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended when these agents are co-administered [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ), and Patient Counseling Information ( 17) ]. Levofloxacin C max and k e were slightly lower while T max and t 1/2 were slightly longer in the presence of cyclosporine than those observed in other studies without concomitant medication. The AUC and t 1/2 of levofloxacin were higher while CL/F and CL R were lower during concomitant treatment of levofloxacin with probenecid or cimetidine compared to levofloxacin alone. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Interacting Drug Interaction Multivalent cation – containing products including antacids, metal cations or didanosine Absorption of levofloxacin is decreased when the tablet or oral solution formulation is taken within 2 hours of these products. Do not co-administer the intravenous formulation in the same IV line with a multivalent cation, e.g., magnesium ( 2.4 , 7.1 ) Warfarin Effect may be enhanced. Monitor prothrombin time, INR, watch for bleeding ( 7.2 ) Antidiabetic agents Carefully monitor blood glucose ( 5.13 , 7.3 ) 7.1 Chelation Agents: Antacids, Sucralfate, Metal Cations, Multivitamins Levofloxacin Injection There are no data concerning an interaction of intravenous fluoroquinolones with oral antacids, sucralfate, multivitamins, didanosine, or metal cations. However, no fluoroquinolone should be co-administered with any solution containing multivalent cations, e.g., magnesium, through the same intravenous line [ see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Patients should also be monitored for evidence of bleeding [ see Adverse Reactions (6.3) ; Patient Counseling Information (17) ]. Therefore, careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended when these agents are co-administered [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ; Adverse Reactions (6.2) , Patient Counseling Information (17) ]. 7.4 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs The concomitant administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug with a fluoroquinolone, including levofloxacin, may increase the risk of CNS stimulation and convulsive seizures [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Adverse reactions, including seizures, may occur with or without an elevation in serum theophylline levels [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. However, there have been reports during the post-marketing experience in patients that levofloxacin enhances the effects of warfarin.

=== MORPHINE SULFATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Morphine sulfate tablets are indicated for the management of: adult and pediatric patients weighing at least 50 kg and above with acute pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. adults with chronic pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use: Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration, [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )], reserve morphine sulfate tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products): Have not been tolerated or are not expected to be tolerated, Have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia Morphine sulfate tablets should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate. Morphine sulfate tablets are opioid agonists indicated for the management of: adults and pediatric patients weighing 50 kg and above with acute pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use ( 1 ) Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration ( 5.1 ), reserve morphine sulfate tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products): Have not been tolerated or are not expected to be tolerated, Have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia Morphine sulfate tablets should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Morphine sulfate extended-release tablets are indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require daily, around-the-clock, long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses, and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with extended-release opioid formulations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] , reserve morphine sulfate extended-release tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or immediate-release opioids) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. Morphine sulfate extended-release tablets are not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesic. Morphine sulfate extended-release tablets are an opioid agonist indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require daily, around-the-clock, long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses, and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with extended-release opioid formulations, reserve morphine sulfate extended-release tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or immediate-release opioids) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. (1) Morphine sulfate extended-release tablets are not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesic. (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Morphine Sulfate Injection is indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require use of an opioid analgesic by Patient Controlled Analgesia (PCA), and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Preservative-free Morphine Sulfate Injection is for administration via a compatible Alaris ® infusion device. Morphine Sulfate Injection is an opioid agonist indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require use of an opioid analgesic by Patient-Controlled Analgesia (PCA), and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use ( 1 ) Only for use with a compatible Alaris ® infusion device. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Morphine sulfate extended-release tablets are indicated for the management of severe and persistent pain that requires an opioid analgesic and that cannot be adequately treated with alternative options, including immediate-release opioids. Morphine sulfate extended-release tablets are an opioid agonist indicated for the management of severe and persistent pain that requires an opioid analgesic and that cannot be adequately treated with alternative options, including immediate-release opioids. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosage or duration and persist over the course of therapy, reserve opioid analgesics, including morphine sulfate extended-release tablets, for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. ( 1 , 5.1 ) Morphine sulfate extended-release tablets are not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesic. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosage or duration and persist over the course of therapy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] , reserve opioid analgesics, including morphine sulfate extended-release tablets, for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Preservative-free morphine sulfate injection is indicated for: • the management of pain severe enough to require use of an opioid analgesic by intravenous administration, and for which alternative treatments are not expected to be adequate. • the epidural or intrathecal management of pain without attendant loss of motor, sensory, or sympathetic function. Preservative-free morphine sulfate injection is an opioid agonist, indicated for: 1. the management of pain severe enough to require use of an opioid analgesic by intravenous administration and for which alternative treatments are not expected to be adequate. 2. the epidural or intrathecal management of pain without attendant loss of motor, sensory, or sympathetic function. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use ( 1 ) Preservative-free morphine sulfate injection is not for use in Continuous Microinfusion Devices. Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration ( 5.2 ), reserve preservative-free morphine sulfate injection for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products): • Have not been tolerated or are not expected to be tolerated, • Have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia Preservative-free morphine sulfate injection should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate. Limitations of Use Preservative-free morphine sulfate injection is not for use in Continuous Microinfusion Devices. Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] , reserve preservative-free morphine sulfate injection for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products): • Have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated, • Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia. Preservative-free morphine sulfate injection should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Morphine Sulfate Injection is an opioid agonist indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use : ( 1 ) Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration ( 5.1 ), reserve Morphine Sulfate Injection for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products): • Have not been tolerated or are not expected to be tolerated • Have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia Morphine Sulfate Injection should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate. Morphine Sulfate Injection is indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] , reserve Morphine Sulfate Injection for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products): • Have not been tolerated or are not expected to be tolerated, • Have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia Morphine Sulfate Injection should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Morphine sulfate oral solution 100 mg per 5 mL (20 mg/mL) is indicated for the relief of acute and chronic pain in opioid-tolerant adult patients. Limitations of Use : Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] , reserve morphine sulfate oral solution for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products): Have not been tolerated or are not expected to be tolerated, Have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia. Morphine sulfate oral solution should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate. Pediatric use information is approved for Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc.’s morphine sulfate oral solution. However, due to Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. Morphine sulfate oral solution is an opioid agonist. Morphine sulfate oral solution 100 mg per 5 mL (20 mg/mL) is indicated for : the relief of acute and chronic pain in opioid-tolerant adult patients. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use (1) : Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration ( 5.2 ), reserve morphine sulfate oral solution for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products): Have not been tolerated or are not expected to be tolerated, Have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Morphine sulfate extended-release capsules are indicated for the management of severe and persistent pain that requires an extended treatment period with a daily opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration, and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with extended-release/long-acting opioid formulations, [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] , reserve morphine sulfate extended-release capsules for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or immediate-release opioids) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. Morphine sulfate extended-release capsules are not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesic. Morphine sulfate extended-release capsules are an opioid agonist indicated for the management of severe and persistent pain that requires an extended treatment period with a daily opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration, and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with extended-release/long-acting opioid formulations, reserve morphine sulfate extended-release capsules for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or immediate-release opioids) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. ( 1 ) Morphine sulfate extended-release capsules are not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesic. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Morphine sulfate extended-release tablets are indicated for the management of severe and persistent pain that requires an extended treatment period with a daily opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. Morphine sulfate extended-release tablets are an opioid agonist indicated for the management of severe and persistent pain that requires an extended treatment period with a daily opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use ( 1 ) Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration, and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with extended-release/long-acting opioid formulations, reserve morphine sulfate extended-release tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or immediate-release opioids) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. ( 1 ) Morphine sulfate extended-release tablets are not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesic. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration, and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with extended-release/long-acting opioid formulations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] , reserve morphine sulfate extended-release tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or immediate-release opioids) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Morphine sulfate tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. ( 2.1 ) Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals. Reserve titration to higher doses of morphine sulfate tablets for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. ( 2.1 , 5 ) Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. Clinical guidelines on opioid prescribing for some acute pain conditions are available. ( 2.1 ) Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. ( 2.1 , 5.1 ) Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with morphine sulfate tablets. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments. ( 2.1 , 5.2 ) Discuss availability of naloxone with the patient and caregiver and assess each patient’s need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with morphine sulfate tablets. Consider prescribing naloxone based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose. ( 2.2 , 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 ) Initiate treatment with morphine sulfate tablets in adults and pediatric patients 50 kg and above: 15 to 30 mg every 4 hours as needed for pain, at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Do not exceed 30 mg as an initial dose in pediatric patients. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of morphine sulfate tablets ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) Do not abruptly discontinue morphine sulfate tablets in a physically dependent patient because rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. ( 2.5 , 5.14 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Morphine sulfate tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )]. Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of morphine sulfate tablets for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. There is variability in the opioid analgesic dose and duration needed to adequately manage pain due both to the cause of pain and to individual patient factors. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with morphine sulfate tablets. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )] . 2.2 Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with morphine sulfate tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Inform patients and caregivers about the various ways to obtain naloxone as permitted by individual state naloxone dispensing and prescribing requirements or guidelines (e.g., by prescription, directly from a pharmacist, or as part of a community-based program). Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 )]. Consider prescribing naloxone if the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose. 2.3 Initial Dosage Use of Morphine sulfate tablets as the First Opioid Analgesic (Opioid-naïve or Opioid-non- tolerant Patients): Adults: The recommended dosage to initiate treatment in adults is 15 mg to 30 mg every 4 hours as needed for pain, and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of morphine sulfate tablets. Pediatric Patients Weighing at Least 50 kg : The recommended dosage to initiate treatment in pediatric patients weighing at least 50 kg and who are able to swallow oral tablets is 15 mg every 4 hours as needed for pain, and the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Do not exceed 30 mg as an initial dose. Morphine sulfate tablets are not recommended for use in pediatric patients who weigh less than 50 kg as the recommended dosage cannot be achieved with available tablet strengths. Consider use of another morphine sulfate product in patients who cannot swallow oral tablets or who weigh less than 50 kg. Conversion from Parenteral Morphine to Morphine sulfate tablets For conversion from parenteral morphine to morphine sulfate tablets, anywhere from 3 to 6 mg of oral morphine sulfate may be required to provide pain relief equivalent to 1 mg of parenteral morphine. Conversion from Other Opioids to Morphine sulfate tablets There is inter-patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and opioid formulations. Therefore, a conservative approach is advised when determining the total daily dosage of morphine sulfate tablets. It is safer to underestimate a patient’s 24-hour morphine sulfate tablets dosage than to overestimate the 24-hour morphine sulfate tablets dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to overdose. Initiate dosing using morphine sulfate tablets 15 mg to 30 mg every 4 hours. Conversion from Morphine sulfate tablets to Extended-Release Morphine For a given dose, the same total amount of morphine sulfate is available from morphine sulfate tablets, and extended- release morphine formulations. The extended duration of release of morphine sulfate from extended-release formulations results in reduced maximum and increased minimum plasma morphine sulfate concentrations than with shorter acting morphine sulfate products. Conversion from morphine sulfate tablets to the same total daily dose of an extended-release formulation could lead to excessive sedation at peak serum levels. Therefore, conversion to extended-release morphine may lead to increased risk of excessive sedation and respiratory depression. 2.4 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate morphine sulfate tablets to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving morphine sulfate tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.14 )]. Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration. If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the morphine sulfate tablets dosage. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )]. Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions. 2.5 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Morphine Sulfate Tablets Do not abruptly discontinue morphine sulfate tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. Rapid discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. Patients may also attempt to treat their pain or withdrawal symptoms with illicit opioids, such as heroin, and other substances. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking morphine sulfate tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioids (including morphine sulfate tablets) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. It is important to ensure ongoing care of the patient and to agree on an appropriate tapering schedule and follow-up plan so that patient and provider goals and expectations are clear and realistic. When opioid analgesics are being discontinued due to a suspected substance use disorder, evaluate and treat the patient, or refer for evaluation and treatment of the substance use disorder. Treatment should include evidence-based approaches, such as medication-assisted treatment of opioid use disorder. Complex patients with co-morbid pain and substance use disorders may benefit from referral to a specialist. There are no standard opioid tapering schedules that are suitable for all patients. Good clinical practice dictates a patient-specific plan to taper the dose of the opioid gradually. For patients on morphine sulfate tablets who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. Patients who have been taking opioids for briefer periods of time may tolerate a more rapid taper. It may be necessary to provide the patient with lower dosage strengths to accomplish a successful taper. Reassess the patient frequently to manage pain and withdrawal symptoms, should they emerge. Common withdrawal symptoms include restlessness, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, yawning, perspiration, chills, myalgia, and mydriasis. Other signs and symptoms also may develop, including irritability, anxiety, backache, joint pain, weakness, abdominal cramps, insomnia, nausea, anorexia, vomiting, diarrhea, or increased blood pressure, respiratory rate, or heart rate. If withdrawal symptoms arise, it may be necessary to pause the taper for a period of time or raise the dose of the opioid analgesic to the previous dose, and then proceed with a slower taper. In addition, evaluate patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for an extended period of time, and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ), Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION To be prescribed only by healthcare providers knowledgeable in the use of potent opioids for management of chronic pain. (2.1) Morphine sulfate extended-release 100 mg and 200 mg tablets, a single dose greater than 60 mg, or a total daily dose greater than 120 mg, are only for use in patients in whom tolerance to an opioid of comparable potency has been established. (2.1) Patients considered opioid-tolerant are those taking, for one week or longer, at least 60 mg of morphine per day, 25 mcg transdermal fentanyl per hour, 30 mg of oral oxycodone per day, 8 mg of oral hydromorphone per day, 25 mg oral oxymorphone per day, 60 mg oral hydrocodone per day, or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid. (2.1) Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals. Reserve titration to higher doses of morphine sulfate extended-release tablets for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. (2.1, 5) Individualize dosing based on the severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. (2.1) Instruct patients to swallow morphine sulfate extended-release tablets intact and not to cut, break, chew, crush, or dissolve morphine sulfate extended-release to avoid the risk of release and absorption of potential fatal dose of morphine. (2.1, 5.1) Discuss availability of naloxone with the patient and caregiver and assess each patient’s need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with morphine sulfate extended-release tablets. Consider prescribing naloxone based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose (2.2, 5.1, 5.3, 5.5). For opioid-naïve and opioid non-tolerant patients, initiate with 15 mg tablets orally every 8 to 12 hours. (2.3) Do not abruptly discontinue morphine sulfate extended-release tablets in a physically dependent patient because rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. (2.5) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Morphine sulfate extended-release tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable in the use of potent opioids for the management of chronic pain. Morphine sulfate extended-release tablets 100 mg and 200 mg, a single dose greater than 60 mg, or a total daily dose greater than 120 mg, are only for use in patients in whom tolerance to an opioid of comparable potency has been established. Patients considered opioid-tolerant are those taking, for one week or longer, at least 60 mg morphine per day, 25 mcg transdermal fentanyl per hour, 30 mg oral oxycodone per day, 8 mg oral hydromorphone daily, 25 mg oral oxymorphone per day, 60 mg oral hydrocodone per day, or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions (5)] . Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24 to 72 hours of initiating therapy and following dosage increases with morphine sulfate extended-release tablets and adjust the dosage accordingly [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Instruct patients to swallow morphine sulfate extended-release tablets whole [see Patient Counseling Information (17)] . Crushing, chewing, or dissolving morphine sulfate extended-release tablets will result in uncontrolled delivery of morphine and can lead to overdose or death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . Morphine sulfate extended-release tablets is administered orally once every 8 or 12 hours. 2.2 Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with morphine sulfate extended-release tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3), Patient Counseling Information (17)] . The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.3, 5.5)] . 2.3 Initial Dosage Use of Morphine Sulfate Extended-Release Tablets as the First Opioid Analgesic (opioid-naïve patients) Initiate treatment with morphine sulfate extended-release tablets with 15 mg tablets orally every 8 or 12 hours. Use of Morphine Sulfate Extended-Release Tablets in Patients who are not Opioid Tolerant (opioid non-tolerant patients) The starting dose for patients who are not opioid tolerant is morphine sulfate extended-release tablets 15 mg orally every 12 hours. Use of higher starting doses in patients who are not opioid tolerant may cause fatal respiratory depression. Conversion from Other Oral Morphine to Morphine Sulfate Extended-Release Tablets Patients receiving other oral morphine formulations may be converted to morphine sulfate extended-release tablets by administering one-half of the patient's 24-hour requirement as morphine sulfate extended-release tablets on an every-12-hour schedule or by administering one-third of the patient's daily requirement as morphine sulfate extended-release tablets on an every-8-hour schedule. Conversion from Other Opioids to Morphine Sulfate Extended-Release Tablets Discontinue all other around-the-clock opioid drugs when morphine sulfate extended-release tablets therapy is initiated. There are no established conversion ratios for conversion from other opioids to morphine sulfate extended-release tablets defined by clinical trials. Initiate dosing using morphine sulfate extended-release tablets 15 mg orally every 8 to 12 hours. It is safer to underestimate a patient’s 24-hour oral morphine dosage and provide rescue medication (e.g., immediate-release opioid) than to overestimate the 24-hour oral morphine dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to an overdose. While useful tables of opioid equivalents are readily available, there is inter-patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and opioid formulations. Close observation and frequent titration are warranted until pain management is stable on the new opioid. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal and for signs of oversedation/toxicity after converting patients to morphine sulfate extended-release tablets. Conversion from Parenteral Morphine or Other Opioids (Parenteral or Oral) to Morphine Sulfate Extended-Release Tablets When converting from parenteral morphine or other non-morphine opioids (parenteral or oral) to morphine sulfate extended-release tablets, consider the following general points: Parenteral to oral morphine ratio: Between 2 to 6 mg of oral morphine may be required to provide analgesia equivalent to 1 mg of parenteral morphine. Typically, a dose of morphine that is approximately three times the previous daily parenteral morphine requirement is sufficient. Other parenteral or oral non-morphine opioids to oral morphine ratios : Specific recommendations are not available because of a lack of systematic evidence for these types of analgesic substitutions. Published relative potency data are available, but such ratios are approximations. In general, begin with half of the estimated daily morphine requirement as the initial dose, managing inadequate analgesia by supplementation with immediate-release morphine. Conversion from Methadone to Morphine Sulfate Extended-Release Tablets Close monitoring is of particular importance when converting methadone to other opioid agonists. The ratio between methadone and other opioid agonists may vary widely as a function of previous dose exposure. Methadone has a long half-life and can accumulate in the plasma. 2.4 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate morphine sulfate extended-release tablets to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving morphine sulfate extended-release tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . During chronic therapy periodically reassess the continued need for the use of opioid analgesics. Patients who experience breakthrough pain may require a dosage adjustment of morphine sulfate extended-release tablets, or may need rescue medication with an appropriate dose of an immediate-release analgesic. If the level of pain increases after dose stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the morphine sulfate extended-release tablets dosage. Because steady-state plasma concentrations are approximated in 1 day, morphine sulfate extended-release tablets dosage adjustments may be done every 1 to 2 days. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see Warnings and Precautions (5)] . 2.5 Dosage Modifications with Concomitant Use of Central Nervous System Depressants If the patient is currently taking a central nervous system (CNS) depressant and the decision is made to begin morphine sulfate, start with the lowest possible dose, 15 mg every 12 hours, monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression, sedation, and hypotension, and consider using a lower dosage of the concomitant CNS depressant [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Drug Interactions (7)] . 2.6 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Morphine Sulfate Extended-Release Tablets Do not abruptly discontinue morphine sulfate extended-release tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking morphine sulfate extended-release tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including morphine sulfate extended-release tablets) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. Treatment should include evidence-based approaches, such as medication assisted treatment of opioid use disorder. For patients on morphine sulfate extended-release tablets who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. In addition, monitor patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for a long duration and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13), Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals. ( 2.1 ) Individualize dosing based on the severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. ( 2.1 ) Intravenous Adult Dosage: The usual dose for administration to adults, via a compatible Alaris ® infusion device, is a 1 mg bolus, with a range of 0.2 to 3 mg per incremental dose. The recommended Lockout Interval is 6 minutes. ( 2.2 ) Do not stop Morphine Sulfate Injection abruptly in a physically dependent patient. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Preservative-free Morphine Sulfate Injection is for intravenous administration. It should be used with a compatible Alaris ® infusion device. Morphine Sulfate Injection is for use with Patient Controlled Analgesia (PCA) infusion device. Dosing errors can result in accidental overdose and death. Avoid dosing errors that may result from confusion between mg and mL and confusion with morphine injections of different concentrations when prescribing, dispensing, and administering Morphine Sulfate Injection. Ensure that the proper dose is communicated and dispensed accurately. Each vial is intended for SINGLE USE ONLY. When the dosing requirement is completed, the unused portion should be discarded in an appropriate manner. Physicians should completely familiarize themselves with the Alaris ® infusion device before prescribing preservative-free Morphine Sulfate Injection. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [ see Warnings and Precautions (5) ]. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24-72 hours of initiating therapy and following dosage increases with Morphine Sulfate Injection and adjust the dosage accordingly [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Administration of Morphine Sulfate Injection should be limited to use by those familiar with the management of respiratory depression. Morphine must be injected slowly; rapid intravenous administration may result in chest wall rigidity. Parenteral drug products should be inspected for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. DO NOT HEAT-STERILIZE. Do not use if color is darker than pale yellow, if it is discolored in any other way, or if it contains a precipitate. 2.2 Initial Dosage Intravenous Administration For use in a compatible Alaris ® infusion device, dosage should be adjusted according to the severity of the pain and the response of the patient. Patients must be closely monitored because of the considerable variability in both the dosage requirements and patient response. Following are recommendations that have to be individualized for each patient. Intravenous Adult Dosage The usual dose for administration to adults, via a compatible Alaris ® infusion device, is a 1 mg bolus, with a range of 0.2 to 3 mg per incremental dose. The physician may adjust the dosage either upward or downward [ see Individualization of Dosage ]; depending on patient response. Occasionally, it may be necessary to exceed the usual dosage in cases of exceptionally severe pain or in those patients who become tolerant. Individualization of Dosage The mean morphine self-administration rate observed in controlled clinical trials ranged from 1-10 mg/h, depending on the nature of the pain, the degree of opioid tolerance developed by the patient, and the individual patient factors. Most patients will achieve adequate analgesia with a 1 mg bolus and a six minute lockout, although patients with a high degree of opioid tolerance may require a larger bolus size to be comfortable without excessively frequent triggering of the device. In such patients, a bolus size of 2-3 mg is usually adequate, although up to a 5 mg bolus has been used in opioid-tolerant patients in some studies. Although the lockout interval may be varied, most investigators have left it at 6 minutes to facilitate easy calculation of the maximal dosing rate. For opioid-naive patients, the combination of dosing rate and lockout should not permit a maximal dosing rate greater than 10 mg/h (1 mg possible every 6 minutes), while for opioid-tolerant patients maximal dosing rates up to 30 mg/h are common (3 mg every 6 minutes) and greater rates may be needed in selected patients. 2.3 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate Morphine Sulfate Injection to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving Morphine Sulfate Injection to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions, as well as monitoring for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. If unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed, consider reducing the dosage. 2.4 Discontinuation of Morphine Sulfate Injection When a patient who has been taking Morphine Sulfate Injection regularly and may be physically dependent no longer requires therapy with Morphine Sulfate Injection, taper the dose gradually, by 25% to 50% every 2 to 4 days, while monitoring carefully for signs and symptoms of withdrawal. If the patient develops these signs or symptoms, raise the dose to the previous level and taper more slowly, either by increasing the interval between decreases, decreasing the amount of change in dose, or both. Do not abruptly discontinue Morphine Sulfate Injection in a physically-dependent patient [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) , Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Morphine sulfate extended-release tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare providers who are knowledgeable about the use of extended-release/long-acting opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. ( 2.1 ) Morphine sulfate extended-release tablets 100 mg and 200 mg tablets, a single dose greater than 60 mg, or a total daily dose greater than 120 mg, are only for use in patients in whom tolerance to an opioid of comparable potency has been established. ( 2.1 ) Patients considered opioid-tolerant are those taking, for one week or longer, at least 60 mg of morphine per day, 25 mcg transdermal fentanyl per hour, 30 mg of oral oxycodone per day, 8 mg of oral hydromorphone per day, 25 mg oral oxymorphone per day, 60 mg oral hydrocodone per day, or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid. ( 2.1 , 5 ) Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. ( 2.1 , 5.1 ) Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with morphine sulfate extended-release tablets. ( 2.1 , 5.2 ) Instruct patients to swallow morphine sulfate extended-release tablets intact and not to cut, break, chew, crush, or dissolve morphine sulfate extended-release tablets (risk of potentially fatal dose). ( 2.1 , 5.1 ) Discuss opioid overdose reversal agents and options for acquiring them with the patient and/or caregiver, both when initiating and renewing treatment with morphine sulfate extended-release tablets, especially if the patient has additional risk factors for overdose, or close contacts at risk for exposure and overdose. ( 2.2 , 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 ) Morphine sulfate extended-release tablets are administered orally once every 8 or 12 hours. ( 2.3 ) For patients who are not opioid tolerant, initiate with 15 mg tablets orally every 8 to 12 hours. ( 2.3 ) Periodically reassess patients receiving morphine sulfate extended-release tablets to evaluate the continued need for opioid analgesics to maintain pain control, for the signs or symptoms of adverse reactions, and for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse. ( 2.4 ) Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue morphine sulfate extended-release tablets in a physically dependent patient because rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. ( 2.5 , 5.14 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Morphine sulfate extended-release tablets should be prescribed by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of extended-release/long-acting opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Morphine sulfate extended-release 100 mg and 200 mg tablets, a single dose greater than 60 mg, or a total daily dose greater than 120 mg, are only for use in patients in whom tolerance to an opioid of comparable potency has been established. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ] . Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of morphine sulfate extended-release tablets for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with morphine sulfate extended-release tablets. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Morphine sulfate extended-release tablets are administered orally once every 8 or 12 hours. Instruct patients to swallow morphine sulfate extended-release tablets whole. Crushing, chewing, or dissolving morphine sulfate extended-release tablets will result in uncontrolled delivery of morphine and can lead to overdose or death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 2.2 Patient Access to an Opioid Overdose Reversal Agent for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Inform patients and caregivers about opioid overdose reversal agents (e.g., naloxone, nalmefene). Discuss the importance of having access to an opioid overdose reversal agent, especially if the patient has risk factors for overdose (e.g., concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose) or if there are household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the management of pain in any patient [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3) ] . Discuss the options for obtaining an opioid overdose reversal agent (e.g., prescription, over-the-counter, or as part of a community-based program) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . There are important differences among the opioid overdose reversal agents, such as route of administration, product strength, approved patient age range, and pharmacokinetics. Be familiar with these differences, as outlined in the approved labeling for those products, prior to recommending or prescribing such an agent. 2.3 Initial Dosage It is safer to underestimate a patient's 24-hour oral morphine dosage and provide rescue medication (e.g., immediate-release opioid) than to overestimate the 24-hour oral morphine dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to an overdose. Frequently reevaluate patients for signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal and for signs of oversedation/toxicity after converting patients to morphine sulfate extended-release tablets. Use of Morphine Sulfate Extended-Release Tablets in Patients who are not Opioid Tolerant The starting dose for patients who are not opioid tolerant is morphine sulfate extended-release tablets 15 mg orally every 8 to 12 hours. Use of higher starting doses in patients who are not opioid tolerant may cause fatal respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Conversion from Other Oral Morphine Formulations to Morphine Sulfate Extended-Release Tablets Patients receiving other oral morphine formulations may be converted to morphine sulfate extended-release tablets by administering one-half of the patient's 24-hour requirement as morphine sulfate extended-release tablets on an every-12-hour schedule or by administering one-third of the patient's daily requirement as morphine sulfate extended-release tablets on an every-8-hour schedule. Conversion from Parenteral Morphine or Other Parenteral Opioid Analgesics to Morphine Sulfate Extended-Release Tablets When converting from parenteral morphine or other parenteral non-morphine opioids to morphine sulfate extended-release tablets, consider the following general points: Parenteral to oral morphine ratio: Between 2 to 6 mg of oral morphine may be required to provide analgesia equivalent to 1 mg of parenteral morphine. Other parenteral non-morphine opioid analgesics to oral morphine ratios: Specific recommendations are not available because of a lack of systematic evidence for these types of analgesic substitutions. Conversion from Methadone to Morphine Sulfate Extended-Release Tablets Regular evaluation is of particular importance when converting methadone to other opioid agonists. Conversion from Other Oral Opioid Analgesics to Morphine Sulfate Extended-Release Tablets When morphine sulfate extended-release tablet therapy is initiated, discontinue all opioid analgesics other than those used on an as needed basis for breakthrough pain when appropriate. There are no established conversion ratios for conversion from other opioid analgesics to morphine sulfate extended-release tablets defined by clinical trials. Continually reevaluate patients receiving morphine sulfate extended-release tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.14) ] . During use of opioid therapy for an extended period of time, periodically reassess the continued need for the use of opioid analgesics. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after a dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ] . 2.5 Dosage Modifications with Concomitant Use of Central Nervous System Depressants If the patient is currently taking a central nervous system (CNS) depressant and the decision is made to begin morphine sulfate extended-release tablets, start with the lowest possible dose, 15 mg every 12 hours, monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression, sedation, and hypotension, and consider using a lower dosage of the concomitant CNS depressant [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Drug Interactions (7) ] . 2.6 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Morphine Sulfate Extended-Release Tablets Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue morphine sulfate extended-release tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. Rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid dependent patient taking morphine sulfate extended-release tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including morphine sulfate extended-release tablets) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. When opioid analgesics are being discontinued due to a suspected substance use disorder, evaluate, and treat the patient, or refer for evaluation and treatment of the substance use disorder. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for an extended period of time and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) , Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Preservative-free morphine sulfate injection should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. ( 2.1 ) • Should be administered by or under the direction of a physician experienced in the techniques of epidural or intrathecal administration. ( 2.1 ) • Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals. Reserve titration to higher doses of preservative-free morphine sulfate injection for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. ( 2.2 , 5 ) • Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. ( 2.1 , 5.2 ) • Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with preservative-free morphine sulfate injection. ( 2 , 5.3 ) • Dosage for Intravenous Administration : 2 mg to 10 mg/70 kg of body weight. ( 2.3 ) • Dosage for Epidural Administration : Initial injection of 5 mg in the lumbar region may provide satisfactory pain relief for up to 24 hours. If adequate pain relief is not achieved within one hour, carefully administer incremental doses of 1 to 2 mg at intervals sufficient to assess effectiveness. Administer no more than 10 mg/24 hr. ( 2.4 ) • Dosage for Intrathecal Administration : A single injection of 0.2 to 1 mg may provide satisfactory pain relief for up to 24 hours. Repeated intrathecal injections of preservative-free morphine sulfate injection are not recommended. ( 2.5 ) • Do not abruptly discontinue preservative-free morphine sulfate injection abruptly in a physically-dependent patient. ( 2.6 , 5.16 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Do Not Use Preservative-free morphine sulfate injection in Continuous Microinfusion Devices. Preservative-free morphine sulfate injection should be administered by or under the direction of a physician experienced in the techniques of epidural or intrathecal administration and familiar with the patient management problems associated with epidural or intrathecal drug administration and the labeling, and should take place only in settings where adequate patient monitoring is possible. • Preservative-free morphine sulfate injection should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. • Because of the risk of delayed respiratory depression, patients should be observed in a fully equipped and staffed environment for at least 24 hours. Respiratory depression (both early and late onset) has occurred more frequently following intrathecal administration than epidural administration. • Because epidural administration has been associated with less potential for immediate or late adverse effects than intrathecal administration, the epidural route should be used whenever possible. • For safety reasons, it is recommended that administration of preservative-free morphine sulfate injection by the epidural or intrathecal routes be limited to the lumbar area. • Have resuscitative equipment and a specific antagonist (naloxone injection) immediately available for the management of respiratory depression as well as complications which might result from inadvertent intrathecal or intravascular injection (note: intrathecal dosage is usually 1/10 that of epidural dosage). Epidural Administration Verify proper placement of a needle or catheter in the epidural space before preservative-free morphine sulfate injection is injected. Acceptable techniques for verifying proper placement include: a) aspiration to check for absence of blood or cerebrospinal fluid, or b) administration of 5 mL (3 mL in obstetric patients) of 1.5% PRESERVATIVE-FREE Lidocaine and Epinephrine (1:200,000) Injection and then observe the patient for lack of tachycardia (this indicates that vascular injection has not been made) and lack of sudden onset of segmental anesthesia (this indicates that intrathecal injection has not been made). Safety and Handling Instructions Preservative-free morphine sulfate injection is supplied in sealed vials. Accidental dermal exposure should be treated by the removal of any contaminated clothing and rinsing the affected area with water. Inspect parenteral drug products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and vial permit. Preservative-free morphine sulfate injection is intended for single dose only. Protect from light, discard any unused portion. 2.2 Initial Dosage The starting dose of preservative-free morphine sulfate injection must be individualized. • Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ] . Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of preservative-free morphine sulfate injection for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. • Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. • There is variability in the opioid analgesic dose and duration needed to adequately manage pain due both to the cause of pain and to individual patient factors. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . • Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with preservative-free morphine sulfate injection. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ] . 2.3 Dosage for Intravenous Administration Adult Dosage : The initial dose of morphine should be 2 mg to 10 mg/70 kg of body weight , and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of preservative-free morphine sulfate injection. 2.4 Dosage for Epidural Administration Adult Dosage : Initial injection of 5 mg in the lumbar region may provide satisfactory pain relief for up to 24 hours. If adequate pain relief is not achieved within one hour, careful administration of incremental doses of 1 to 2 mg at intervals sufficient to assess effectiveness may be given. Do not administer more than 10 mg per 24 hours. 2.5 Dosage for Intrathecal Administration Adult Dosage : Intrathecal dosage is usually 1/10 that of epidural dosage. A single injection of 0.2 to 1 mg may provide satisfactory pain relief for up to 24 hours. (Caution: this is only 0.4 to 2 mL of the 5 mg/10 mL vial or 0.2 to 1 mL of the 10 mg/10 mL vial of preservative-free morphine sulfate injection). • Do not inject intrathecally more than 2 mL of the 5 mg/10 mL vial or 1 mL of the 10 mg/10 mL vial. • Repeated intrathecal injections of preservative-free morphine sulfate injection are not recommended. If pain recurs, consider alternative routes of administration. • A constant intravenous infusion of naloxone, 0.6 mg/hr, for 24 hours after intrathecal injection may be used to reduce the incidence of potential side effects. 2.6 Discontinuation of Preservative-Free Morphine Sulfate Injection When a patient who has been treated with a regimen of opioid analgesics including preservative-free morphine sulfate injection regularly and may be physically-dependent or no longer requires therapy with preservative-free morphine sulfate injection, taper the dose gradually while monitoring carefully for signs and symptoms of withdrawal. Do not abruptly discontinue preservative-free morphine sulfate injection in a physically-dependent patient [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16) , Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Morphine Sulfate Injection should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Reserve titration to higher doses of Morphine Sulfate Injection for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. ( 2.1 , 5 ) • Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. ( 2.1 ) • Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. ( 2.1 , 5.1 ) • Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating the following dosage increases with Morphine Sulfate Injection. ( 2.1 , 5.2 ) • Direct Intravenous Injection : Initiate treatment with 0.1 mg to 0.2 mg per kg every 4 hours as needed to manage pain. ( 2.2 ) • Intramuscular Injection : Initiate treatment with 10 mg, every 4 hours as needed to manage pain (based on a 70 kg adult). ( 2.2 ) • Do not abruptly discontinue Morphine Sulfate Injection in a physically-dependent patient. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions • Morphine Sulfate Injection is intended for intravenous and intramuscular administration. • Morphine Sulfate Injection is available in two concentrations for direct injection. Ensure that the dose is communicated and dispensed accurately. • Administration of Morphine Sulfate Injection should be limited to use by those familiar with the management of respiratory depression. • Morphine Sulfate Injection should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. • Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )] . Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of Morphine Sulfate Injection for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. • There is a variability in the opioid analgesic dose and duration needed to adequately manage pain due both to the cause of pain and to individual patient factors. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . • Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating the following dosage increases with Morphine Sulfate Injection. • Inspect Morphine Sulfate Injection for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. 2.2 Initial Dosage Direct Intravenous Injection Initiate treatment with Morphine Sulfate Injection in adults at a dosing range of 0.1 mg to 0.2 mg per kg every 4 hours as needed to manage pain, and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Administer the injection slowly. Intramuscular Injection The initial IM dose is 10 mg every 4 hours (based on a 70 kg adult) as needed to manage pain, and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. 2.3 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Titrate the dose based upon individual patient’s response to their initial dose of Morphine Sulfate Injection. Individually titrate Morphine Sulfate Injection to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving Morphine Sulfate Injection to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as monitoring for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.14 )] . If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the Morphine Sulfate Injection dosage. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after a dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )] . 2.4 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Morphine Sulfate Injection When a patient who has been taking Morphine Sulfate Injection regularly and may be physically dependent or no longer requires therapy with Morphine Sulfate Injection, taper the dose gradually, by 25% to 50% every 2 to 4 days, while regularly evaluating for signs and symptoms of withdrawal. Do not abruptly discontinue Morphine Sulfate Injection in a physically-dependent patient [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ), Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Morphine sulfate oral solution 100 mg per 5 mL (20 mg/mL) is only for opioid-tolerant adult patients. ( 2.1 ) Morphine sulfate oral solution should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. ( 2.2 ) Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals. Reserve titration to higher doses of morphine sulfate oral solution for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. ( 2.2 , 5 ) Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. ( 2.2 ) Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. ( 2.2 , 5.2 ) Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with morphine sulfate oral solution. ( 2.1 , 5.3 ) Discuss availability of naloxone with the patient and caregiver and assess each patient’s need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with morphine sulfate oral solution. ( 2.3 , 5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4 ) Adults: Initiate treatment with morphine sulfate oral solution 10 mg to 20 mg every 4 hours as needed for pain, and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of morphine sulfate oral solution. ( 2.4 , 2.5 ) Do not abruptly discontinue morphine sulfate oral solution in a physically dependent patient because rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. ( 2.6 , 5.15 ) 2.1 Dosage and Administration Overview Morphine sulfate oral solution is available in one concentration: 100 mg per 5 mL (20 mg/mL) [see Dosage Forms and Strengths (3)] . Morphine sulfate oral solution 100 mg per 5 mL (20 mg/mL) is only indicated for use in opioid-tolerant adult patients who have already been receiving opioid therapy. This concentration is to be used only in adult patients who have already been titrated to a stable analgesic regimen using lower concentrations of morphine sulfate and who can benefit from use of a higher concentration (smaller volume) of oral solution. Adult patients considered to be opioid tolerant are those who are receiving, for one week or longer, at least 60 mg oral morphine per day, 25 mcg transdermal fentanyl per hour, 30 mg oral oxycodone per day, 8 mg oral hydromorphone per day, 25 mg oral oxymorphone per day, 60 mg oral hydrocodone per day, or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid Strongly advise patients and caregivers to always use the enclosed calibrated oral syringe when administering morphine sulfate oral solution 100 mg per 5 mL (20 mg/mL) to ensure the dose is measured and administered accurately. Ensure accuracy when prescribing, dispensing, and administering morphine sulfate oral solution to avoid dosing errors due to confusion between mg and mL, and with other morphine solutions of different concentrations, which could result in accidental overdose and death. Ensure the proper dose is communicated and dispensed. When writing prescriptions, include both the total dose in mg and the total dose in volume. Instruct patients and caregivers on how to accurately measure and take or administer the correct dose of morphine sulfate oral solution. Instruct patients and caregivers to never use household teaspoons or tablespoons to measure morphine sulfate oral solution. Pediatric use information is approved for Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc.’s morphine sulfate oral solution. However, due to Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.2 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Ensure accuracy when prescribing, dispensing, and administering morphine sulfate oral solution to avoid dosing errors due to confusion between mg and mL, and with other morphine sulfate oral solutions of different concentrations, which could result in accidental overdose and death. Strongly advise patients and caregivers to always use a calibrated oral syringe when administering morphine sulfate oral solution to ensure the dose is measured and administered accurately. Morphine sulfate oral solution should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )] . Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of morphine sulfate oral solution for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with morphine sulfate oral solution. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . 2.3 Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with morphine sulfate oral solution [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4 )] . 2.4 Initial Dosage Initiating Treatment with Morphine Sulfate Oral Solution Adults: Do not initiate treatment with morphine sulfate oral solution 100 mg per 5 mL (20 mg/mL) in adult patients who are opioid-naïve or in pediatric patients. The recommended dosage to initiate treatment with morphine sulfate oral solution 100 mg per 5 mL (20 mg/mL) in opioid-tolerant adults is 10 mg to 20 mg every 4 hours as needed for pain. Conversion from Parenteral Morphine to Morphine Sulfate Oral Solution For conversion from parenteral morphine to morphine sulfate oral solution, anywhere from 3 to 6 mg of oral morphine sulfate may be required to provide pain relief equivalent to 1 mg of parenteral morphine. Conversion from Other Opioids to Morphine Sulfate Oral Solution There is inter-patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and opioid formulations. Therefore, a conservative approach is advised when determining the total daily dosage of morphine sulfate oral solution. It is safer to underestimate a patient’s 24-hour morphine sulfate oral solution dosage than to overestimate the 24-hour morphine sulfate oral solution dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to overdose. Initiate treatment in adults a dosage range of 10 to 20 mg every 4 hours as needed for pain, and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Conversion from Morphine Sulfate Oral Solution to Extended-Release Morphine For a given dose, the same total amount of morphine sulfate is available from morphine sulfate oral solution and extended-release morphine formulations. Conversion from morphine sulfate oral solution to the same total daily dose of an extended-release formulation could lead to excessive sedation at peak serum levels. Therefore, conversion to extended-release morphine formulations may lead to increased risk of excessive sedation and respiratory depression. 2.5 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate morphine sulfate oral solution to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving morphine sulfate oral solution to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.15 )] . If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the morphine sulfate oral solution dosage. 2.6 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Morphine Sulfate Oral Solution Do not abruptly discontinue morphine sulfate oral solution in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking morphine sulfate oral solution, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including morphine sulfate oral solution) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. For patients on morphine sulfate oral solution who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.15 ), Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Morphine sulfate extended-release capsules should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of extended-release/long-acting opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. ( 2.1 ) Morphine sulfate extended-release 90 mg and 120 mg capsules, are only for use in patients in whom tolerance to an opioid of comparable potency is established. Patients considered opioid-tolerant are those taking, for one week or longer, at least 60 mg of morphine per day, 25 mcg transdermal fentanyl per hour, 30 mg of oral oxycodone per day, 8 mg of oral hydromorphone per day, 25 mg oral oxymorphone per day, 60 mg oral hydrocodone per day, or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid. Reserve titration to higher doses of morphine sulfate extended-release capsules for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. ( 2.1 , 5 ) Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. ( 5.1 ) Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with morphine sulfate extended-release capsules. ( 2.1 , 5.2 ) Must swallow morphine sulfate extended-release capsules intact, or sprinkle the capsule contents on applesauce and immediately swallow. ( 2.1 , 2.5 ) Do not cut, break, chew, crush, or dissolve the pellets in morphine sulfate extended-release capsules (risk of potentially fatal overdose) ( 2.1 , 2.5 , 5.1 ) For opioid-naïve and opioid non-tolerant patients, initiate with 30 mg capsules orally every 24 hours. Dose can be increased every 3 to 4 days using increments of 30 mg. ( 2.1 , 2.2 ) Discuss availability of naloxone with the patient and caregiver and assess each patient’s need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with morphine sulfate extended-release capsules. Consider prescribing naloxone based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose ( 2.2 , 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 ). Do not abruptly discontinue morphine sulfate extended-release capsules in a physically-dependent patient because rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. ( 2.3 , 2.4 , 5.14 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Morphine sulfate extended-release capsules should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of extended-release/long-acting opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Morphine sulfate extended-release 90 mg and 120 mg capsules are only for use in patients in whom tolerance to an opioid of comparable potency has been established. Patients considered opioid tolerant are those taking, for one week or longer, at least 60 mg oral morphine per day, 25 mcg transdermal fentanyl per hour, 30 mg oral oxycodone per day, 8 mg oral hydromorphone per day, 25 mg oral oxymorphone per day, 60 mg oral hydrocodone per day, or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid. Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of morphine sulfate extended-release capsules for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with morphine sulfate extended-release capsules. Instruct patients to swallow morphine sulfate extended-release capsules whole [see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )] . Crushing, chewing, or dissolving the pellets in morphine sulfate extended-release capsules will result in uncontrolled delivery of morphine and can lead to overdose or death [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Instruct patients who are unable to swallow morphine sulfate extended-release capsules to sprinkle the capsule contents on applesauce and immediately swallow without chewing [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )] . Morphine sulfate extended-release capsules are administered at a frequency of once daily (every 24 hours). 2.2 Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with morphine sulfate extended-release capsules [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )]. Consider prescribing naloxone if the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose . 2.3 Initial Dosing Use of Morphine Sulfate Extended-Release Capsules as the First Opioid Analgesic (opioid-naïve patients) Initiate treatment with morphine sulfate extended-release capsules with a 30 mg capsule orally every 24 hours. Adjust the dose of morphine sulfate extended-release capsules in increments not greater than 30 mg every 3 to 4 days. Use of Morphine Sulfate Extended-Release Capsules in Patients who are not Opioid Tolerant (opioid non-tolerant patients) The starting dose of morphine sulfate extended-release capsules for patients who are not opioid tolerant is 30 mg orally every 24 hours. Conversion from Other Opioids to Morphine Sulfate Extended-Release Capsules When morphine sulfate extended-release capsules therapy is initiated, discontinue all other opioid analgesics other than those used on an as needed basis for breakthrough pain when appropriate. There are no established conversion ratios from other opioids to morphine sulfate extended-release capsules defined by clinical trials. Initiate dosing using morphine sulfate extended-release capsules 30 mg orally every 24 hours. It is safer to underestimate a patient's 24-hour oral morphine dosage and provide rescue medication (e.g. immediate-release morphine) than to overestimate the 24-hour oral morphine dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to an overdose. While useful tables of opioid equivalents are readily available, there is inter-patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and formulations. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal and for signs of oversedation/toxicity after converting patients to morphine sulfate extended-release capsules. Conversion from Other Oral Morphine Formulations to Morphine Sulfate Extended-Release Capsules Patients receiving other oral morphine formulations may be converted to morphine sulfate extended-release capsules by administering the patient's total daily oral morphine dose as morphine sulfate extended-release capsules once-daily. Monitor patients closely when initiating morphine sulfate extended-release capsule therapy and adjust the dosage of morphine sulfate extended-release capsules as needed. Morphine sulfate extended-release capsules should not be given more frequently than every 24 hours. Conversion from Parenteral Morphine or Other Non-Morphine Opioids (Parenteral or Oral) to Morphine Sulfate Extended-Release Capsules When converting from parenteral morphine or other non-morphine opioids (parenteral or oral) to morphine sulfate extended-release capsules, consider the following general points: Parenteral to oral morphine ratio: Between 2 to 6 mg of oral morphine may be required to provide analgesia equivalent to 1 mg of parenteral morphine. Other parenteral or oral non-morphine opioids to oral morphine sulfate: Specific recommendations are not available because of a lack of systematic evidence for these types of analgesic substitutions. Conversion from Methadone to Morphine Sulfate Extended-Release Capsules Close monitoring is of particular importance when converting from methadone to other opioid agonists. The first dose of morphine sulfate extended-release capsules may be taken with the last dose of any immediate-release opioid medication due to the extended-release characteristics of the morphine sulfate extended-release capsules formulation. 2.4 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate morphine sulfate extended-release capsules to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving morphine sulfate extended-release capsules to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.14 )] . During use of opioid therapy for an extended period of time, periodically reassess the continued need for opioid analgesics. Patients who experience breakthrough pain may require a dose increase of morphine sulfate extended-release capsules, or may need rescue medication with an appropriate dose of an immediate-release analgesic. If the level of pain increases after dose stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the morphine sulfate extended-release capsules dosage. Because steady-state plasma concentrations are approximated within 2 to 3 days, morphine sulfate extended-release capsules dosage adjustments may be done every 3 to 4 days. The daily dose of morphine sulfate extended-release capsules must be limited to a maximum of 1,600 mg/day. Morphine sulfate extended-release capsules doses of over 1,600 mg/day contain a quantity of fumaric acid that has not been demonstrated to be safe, and which may result in serious renal toxicity. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )] . 2.5 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Morphine Sulfate Extended-Release Capsules Do not abruptly discontinue morphine sulfate extended-release capsules in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking morphine sulfate extended-release capsules, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including morphine sulfate extended-release capsules) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. For patients on morphine sulfate extended-release capsules who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ), Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )] . 2.6 Administration of Morphine Sulfate Extended-Release Capsules Morphine sulfate extended-release capsules must be taken whole. Alternatively, the contents of the morphine sulfate extended-release capsules (pellets) may be sprinkled over applesauce and then swallowed. This method is appropriate only for patients able to reliably swallow the applesauce without chewing. Other foods have not been tested and should not be substituted for applesauce. Instruct the patient to: Sprinkle the pellets onto a small amount of applesauce and consume immediately without chewing. Rinse the mouth to ensure all pellets have been swallowed. Discard any unused portion of the morphine sulfate extended-release capsules after the contents have been sprinkled on applesauce. Do not administer morphine sulfate extended-release capsules pellets through a nasogastric or gastric tubes. ( 2 , 5 ) Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. ( 2 , 5 ) Discuss availability of naloxone with the patient and caregiver and assess each patient's need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with morphine sulfate extended-release tablets. Consider prescribing naloxone based on the patient's risk factors for overdose. ( 2.2 , 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 ) Instruct patients to swallow morphine sulfate extended-release tablets intact and not to cut, break, chew, crush, or dissolve morphine sulfate extended-release tablets (risk of potentially fatal dose) ( 2.1 , 5.1 ) For opioid-naïve and opioid non-tolerant patients, initiate with 15 mg tablets orally every 8 to 12 hours. ( 2.3 ) Do not abruptly discontinue morphine sulfate extended-release tablets in a physically dependent patient because rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. 2.2 Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with morphine sulfate extended-release tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient's risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3) ] . 2.3 Initial Dosage Use of Morphine Sulfate Extended-Release Tablets as the First Opioid Analgesic (opioid-naïve patients) Initiate treatment with morphine sulfate extended-release tablets at a dose of 15 mg tablets orally every 8 or 12 hours. Conversion from Other Opioids to Morphine Sulfate Extended-Release Tablets When morphine sulfate extended-release tablet therapy is initiated, discontinue all other opioid analgesics other than those used on an as needed basis for breakthrough pain when appropriate. It is safer to underestimate a patient's 24-hour oral morphine dosage and provide rescue medication (e.g., immediate-release opioid) than to overestimate the 24-hour oral morphine dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to an overdose. Other parenteral or oral non-morphine opioids to oral morphine ratios: Specific recommendations are not available because of a lack of systematic evidence for these types of analgesic substitutions.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Morphine sulfate tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )]. Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) and Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )]. Hypersensitivity to morphine (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see Adverse Reactions ( 6 )]. Significant respiratory depression. ( 4 ) Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in absence of resuscitative equipment. ( 4 ) Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days. ( 4 ) Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to morphine. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Morphine sulfate is contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7), Drug Interactions (7)] . Hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to morphine [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)] Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Significant respiratory depression (4) Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment (4) Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days (4) Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus (4) Hypersensitivity to morphine (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Morphine Sulfate Injection is contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] Hypersensitivity to morphine (e.g., anaphylaxis) [ see Adverse Reactions (6) ] Significant respiratory depression. ( 4 ) Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days ( 4 ) Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Morphine sulfate extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) , Drug Interactions (7) ] . Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] Hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to morphine [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] Significant respiratory depression ( 4 ) Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment ( 4 ) Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days ( 4 ) Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to morphine ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Preservative-free morphine sulfate injection is contraindicated in patients with: • Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] • Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) , Drug Interactions (7) ] • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) ] • Hypersensitivity to morphine (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see Adverse Reactions (6) ] Neuraxial administration of preservative-free morphine sulfate injection is contraindicated in patients with: • Infection at the injection microinfusion site [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] • Concomitant anticoagulant therapy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] • Uncontrolled bleeding diathesis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] • The presence of any other concomitant therapy or medical condition which would render epidural or intrathecal administration of medication especially hazardous. Preservative-free morphine sulfate injection is contraindicated in patients with: • Significant respiratory depression ( 4 ) • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting in absence of resuscitative equipment ( 4 ) • Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days ( 4 ) • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity or intolerance to morphine ( 4 ) Neuraxial administration of preservative-free morphine sulfate injection is contraindicated in patients with: • Infection at the injection microinfusion site ( 4 ) • Concomitant anticoagulant therapy ( 4 ) • Uncontrolled bleeding diathesis ( 4 ) • The presence of any other concomitant therapy or medical condition which would render epidural or intrathecal administration of medication especially hazardous. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Morphine Sulfate Injection is contraindicated in patients with: • Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] • Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )]. • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] • Hypersensitivity to morphine (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see Adverse Reactions ( 6 )] • Significant respiratory depression. ( 4 ) • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in absence of resuscitative equipment. ( 4 ) • Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days. ( 4 ) • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to morphine. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Morphine sulfate oral solution is contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )]. Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Morphine sulfate extended-release capsules are contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] . Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] Hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to morphine [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] Significant respiratory depression ( 4 ) Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment ( 4 ) Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days ( 4 ) Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to morphine ( 4 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 1 includes clinically significant drug interactions with morphine sulfate tablets. Table 1: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Morphine sulfate tablets Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Intervention: Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction and educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 )]. Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, alcohol. Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Intervention: If concomitant use is warranted, frequently evaluate the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue morphine sulfate tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Examples: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that effect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )]. Intervention: Do not use morphine sulfate tablets in patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Examples: Phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of morphine sulfate tablets and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use. Examples: Butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, buprenorphine. Muscle Relaxants Clinical Impact: Morphine may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Intervention: Because respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected, decrease the dosage of morphine sulfate tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.3 )]. Examples: Cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone Cimetidine Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of morphine and cimetidine has been reported to precipitate apnea, confusion, and muscle twitching in an isolated report. Intervention: Evaluate patients for increased respiratory and CNS depression when morphine sulfate tablets are used concomitantly with cimetidine. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Anticholinergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when morphine sulfate tablets are used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. P-Glycoprotein (P-gp) Inhibitors Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of P-gp inhibitors can increase the exposure to morphine by two-fold and can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of morphine sulfate tablets and/or the P-gp inhibitor as necessary. Examples: Quinidine, verapamil. Serotonergic Drugs: Concomitant use may result in serotonin syndrome. ( 7 ) Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics: Avoid use with morphine sulfate tablets because they may reduce analgesic effect of morphine sulfate tablets or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. ( 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 1 includes clinically significant drug interactions with morphine sulfate. Table 1: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with morphine sulfate Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Follow patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.5), Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.3, 5.5)] . Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedative hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, alcohol. Intervention: If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue morphine sulfate if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Intervention: Do not use morphine sulfate in patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Examples: phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of morphine sulfate and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Examples: butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, buprenorphine Muscle Relaxants Clinical Impact: Morphine may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of morphine sulfate and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.3, 5.5)] Examples: Cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone Cimetidine Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of cimetidine can potentiate morphine effects and increase risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of morphine sulfate and/or cimetidine as necessary. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when morphine sulfate is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. P-Glycoprotein (P-gp) Inhibitors Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of PGP-inhibitors can increase the exposure to morphine by about two-fold and can increase risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of morphine sulfate and/or the PGP-inhibitor as necessary. Example: Quinidine Serotonergic Drugs : Concomitant use may result in serotonin syndrome. (7) Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics: Avoid use with morphine sulfate because they may reduce analgesic effect of morphine sulfate or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. (5.13, 7) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 1 includes clinically significant drug interactions with Morphine Sulfate Injection. Table 1: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Morphine Sulfate Injection Benzodiazepines and Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Follow patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Discontinue Morphine Sulfate Injection if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Examples: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Intervention: Do not use Morphine Sulfate Injection in patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. If urgent use of an opioid is necessary, use test doses and frequent titration of small doses of other opioids (such as oxycodone, hydrocodone, oxymorphone, hydrocodone, or buprenorphine) to treat pain while closely monitoring blood pressure and signs and symptoms of CNS and respiratory depression. Examples: phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of Morphine Sulfate Injection and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Examples: Butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, and buprenorphine. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of Morphine Sulfate Injection and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Cimetidine Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of Morphine Sulfate Injection and cimetidine has been reported to precipitate apnea, confusion, and muscle twitching in an isolated report. Intervention: Monitor patients for increased respiratory and CNS depression when receiving cimetidine concomitantly with Morphine Sulfate Injection Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when Morphine Sulfate Injection is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Oral P2Y 12 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: The co-administration of oral P2Y 12 inhibitors and intravenous morphine sulfate can decrease the absorption and peak concentration of oral P2Y 12 inhibitors and delay the onset of the antiplatelet effect. Intervention: Consider the use of a parenteral antiplatelet agent in the setting of the acute coronary syndrome requiring co-administration of intravenous morphine sulfate. Examples: clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor Serotonergic Drugs: Concomitant use may result in serotonin syndrome. ( 7 ) Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics: Avoid use with Morphine Sulfate Injection because they may reduce analgesic effect of Morphine Sulfate Injection or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 1 includes clinically significant drug interactions with morphine sulfate extended-release tablets. Table 1: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Morphine Sulfate Extended-Release Tablets Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . If concomitant use is warranted, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see Dosage and Administration (2.2 , 2.5) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3) ] . Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedative hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, gabapentinoids (gabapentin or pregabalin), other opioids, alcohol. Discontinue morphine sulfate extended-release tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Intervention: Do not use morphine sulfate extended-release tablets in patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Examples: phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of morphine sulfate extended-release tablets and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Intervention: Because respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected, decrease the dosage of morphine sulfate extended-release tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3) ]. Examples cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone Cimetidine Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of cimetidine can potentiate morphine effects and increase risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of morphine sulfate extended-release tablets and/or cimetidine as necessary. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when morphine sulfate extended-release tablets are used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of morphine sulfate extended-release tablets and/or the PGP-inhibitor as necessary. ( 7 ) Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics : Avoid use with morphine sulfate extended-release tablets because they may reduce analgesic effect of morphine sulfate extended-release tablets or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. ( 5.14 , 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 1 includes clinically significant drug interactions with preservative-free morphine sulfate injection. Table 1 Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Preservative-Free Morphine Sulfate Injection Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. The depressant effects of morphine are potentiated by the presence of other CNS depressants. Use of neuroleptics in conjunction with neuraxial morphine may increase the risk of respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Monitor closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, psychotropic drugs, antihistamines, neuroleptics, other opioids, alcohol. Discontinue preservative-free morphine sulfate injection if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Examples: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that effect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), monoamine oxidase inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. Intervention: Do not use preservative-free morphine sulfate injection in patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. If urgent use of an opioid is necessary, use test doses and frequent titration of small doses of other opioids (such as oxycodone, hydromorphone, oxymorphone, hydrocodone, or buprenorphine) to treat pain while closely monitoring blood pressure and signs and symptoms of CNS and respiratory depression. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of preservative-free morphine sulfate injection and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of preservative-free morphine sulfate injection and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when preservative-free morphine sulfate injection is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Intervention: Consider the use of a parenteral antiplatelet agent in the setting of acute coronary syndrome requiring co-administration of intravenous morphine sulfate. Examples: Clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor. • Serotonergic Drugs : Concomitant use may result in serotonin syndrome. ( 7 ) • Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics : Avoid use with preservative-free morphine sulfate injection because they may reduce the analgesic effect of preservative-free morphine sulfate injection or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Table 1: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Morphine Sulfate Injection Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Monitor patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . If urgent use of an opioid is necessary, use test doses and frequent titration of small doses of other opioids (such as oxycodone, oxymorphone, hydrocodone, or buprenorphine) to treat pain while closely monitoring blood pressure and signs and symptoms of CNS and respiratory depression. Cimetidine Clinical Impact: The concomitant administration of morphine sulfate and cimetidine has been reported to precipitate apnea, confusion, and muscle twitching in an isolated report. Intervention: Monitor patients for increased respiratory and CNS depression when receiving cimetidine concomitantly with Morphine Sulfate Injection. Oral P2Y 12 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: The co-administration of oral P2Y 12 inhibitors and intravenous morphine sulfate can decrease the absorption and peak concentration of oral P2Y 12 inhibitors and delay the onset of antiplatelet effect. Examples: clopidogrel, prasugrel, ticagrelor • Serotonergic Drugs : Concomitant use may result in serotonin syndrome. ( 7 ) • Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics : Avoid use with Morphine Sulfate Injection because they may reduce analgesic effect of Morphine Sulfate Injection or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 1 includes clinically significant drug interactions with morphine sulfate oral solution. Table 1: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Morphine Sulfate Oral Solution Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4 )] . Discontinue morphine sulfate oral solution if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 , 5.9 )] . Intervention: Do not use morphine sulfate oral solution in patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of morphine sulfate oral solution and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Intervention: Because respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected decrease the dosage of morphine sulfate oral solution and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 , 5.4 )] . Examples: Cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone. Cimetidine Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of morphine and cimetidine has been reported to precipitate apnea, confusion, and muscle twitching in an isolated report. Intervention: Evaluate patients for increased respiratory and CNS depression when morphine sulfate oral solution is used concomitantly with cimetidine. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when morphine sulfate oral solution is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of morphine sulfate oral solution and/or the P-gp inhibitor as necessary. Serotonergic Drugs : Concomitant use may result in serotonin syndrome. ( 7 ) Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics : Avoid use with morphine sulfate oral solution because they may reduce analgesic effect of morphine sulfate oral solution or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 1 includes clinically significant drug interactions with morphine sulfate extended-release capsules. Table 1: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Morphine Sulfate Extended-Release Capsules Alcohol Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of alcohol with morphine sulfate extended-release capsules can result in an increase of morphine plasma levels and potentially fatal overdose of morphine. Intervention: Instruct patients not to consume alcoholic beverages or use prescription or non-prescription products containing alcohol while on morphine sulfate extended-release capsules therapy [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepine or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction, educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 )] . Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers and muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, alcohol. Discontinue morphine sulfate extended-release capsules if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Examples: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT 3 receptor antagonists, drugs that effect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Intervention: Do not use morphine sulfate extended-release capsules in patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of morphine sulfate extended-release capsules and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Intervention: Because respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected, decrease the dosage of morphine sulfate extended-release capsules and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.3 )] Cimetidine Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of cimetidine can potentiate morphine effects and increase risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of morphine sulfate extended-release capsules and/or cimetidine as necessary. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when morphine sulfate extended-release capsules are used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. P-Glycoprotein (PGP) Inhibitors Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of PGP-inhibitors can increase the exposure to morphine by about two-fold and can increase risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of morphine sulfate extended-release capsules and/or the PGP-inhibitor as necessary. ( 7 ) Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics: Avoid use with mixed agonist/antagonist because they may reduce analgesic effect of morphine sulfate extended-release capsules or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration (2.2 , 2.5) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3) ] . Intervention: Because of respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected, decrease the dosage of morphine sulfate extended-release tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3) ].

=== CHLORHEXIDINE GLUCONATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic Antiseptic
Indications: Use healthcare personnel handwash: helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease INDICATIONS AND USAGE Chlorhexidine Gluconate Oral Rinse is indicated for use between dental visits as part of a professional program for the treatment of gingivitis as characterized by redness and swelling of the gingivae, including gingival bleeding upon probing. Chlorhexidine gluconate has not been tested among patients with acute necrotizing ulcerative gingivitis (ANUG). For patients having coexisting gingivitis and periodontitis, see PRECAUTIONS . Uses ● Antimicrobial action: Effectively targets and eliminates harmful bacteria to maintain natural balance. ● UTI Defense: Actively helps to prevent urinary tract infections. ● Odor Control: Neutralizes odors, leaving you feeling fresh and clean. Chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse is indicated for use between dental visits as part of a professional program for the treatment of gingivitis as characterized by redness and swelling of the gingivae, including gingival bleeding upon probing. Chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse has not been tested among patients with acute necrotizing ulcerative gingivitis (ANUG). For patients having coexisting gingivitis and periodontitis, see PRECAUTIONS. Uses patient preoperative skin preparation: for preparation of the skin prior to surgery helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause skin infection Uses healthcare personnel handwash : helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease skin wound and general skin cleansing Uses  surgical hand scrub: significantly reduces the number of microorganisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care  healthcare personnel handwash: helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease Uses surgical hand scrub: significantly reduces the number of microorganisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care healthcare personnel handwash: helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease
Dosage: Directions use with care in premature infants and infants under 2 months of age. These products may cause irritation or chemical burns. Healthcare personnel handwash: wet hands with water dispense about 5 mL of product into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for 30 seconds rinse and dry thoroughly DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Chlorhexidine Gluconate Oral Rinse therapy should be initiated directly following a dental prophylaxis. Patients using chlorhexidine gluconate should be reevaluated and given a thorough prophylaxis at intervals no longer than six months. Recommended use is twice daily oral rinsing for 30 seconds, morning and evening after toothbrushing. Usual dosage is 15ml (marked in cap) of undiluted chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse. Patients should be instructed to not rinse with water, or other mouthwashes, brush teeth, or eat immediately after using chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse. Chlorhexidine Gluconate Oral Rinse is not intended for ingestion and should be expectorated after rinsing. Directions ● Wet the area: Begin by splashing water on the external vaginal area or take this step while in the shower or bath to ensure the area is moist. ● Apply the wash: Pump a small amount of the foam onto your hand. The foam should be rich and airy. Typically, two pumps are sufficient. ● Gentle Cleansing: Gently apply foam to the delicate areas. Use your hand to spread the foam, covering the entire area with gentle, circular motions. Avoid using sponges or washcloths, as they can be too abrasive. ● Rinse thoroughly: After cleansing, rinse thoroughly with warm water. Ensure all traces of the wash are removed to avoid irritation. ● Pat dry: Gently pat the area with a clean towel. Avoid rubbing, as this may cause irritation. It's important to ensure the area is completely dry before dressing to prevent moisture buildup, which can lead to irritation or infections. Usual dosage is 15 mL (marked in cap) of undiluted chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse. Chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse therapy should be initiated directly following a dental prophylaxis. Patients using chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse should be reevaluated and given a thorough prophylaxis at intervals no longer than six months. Recommended use is twice daily rinsing for 30 seconds, morning and evening after tooth brushing. Directions (follow all directions for use) use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age. discard the applicator after a single use along with any portion of the solution not required to cover the prepped area. It is not necessary to use the entire amount available. Getting Patient Ready for Solution: use in well-ventilated area do not microwave or heat the solution applicator apply to clean, completely dry, residue-free, intact skin when hair removal is necessary, use a surgical clipper on the morning of the surgery. If a wet shave is used, thoroughly remove all soap residues. Activating the Applicator: remove applicator from package; do not touch sponge with sponge face parallel to the floor, press the cap end of the applicator. Solution will begin to flow into sponge. When Applying Solution: completely wet the treatment area with antiseptic dry surgical sites (e.g., abdomen or arm): use repeated back-and-forth strokes for 30 seconds moist surgical sites (e.g., inguinal fold): use repeated back-and-forth strokes for 2 minutes maximal treatment area for one applicator is approximately 13.2 in. x 21.6 in. (285.2 in 2 ). do not allow solution to pool ; tuck prep towels to absorb solution, and then remove clean umbilicus with enclosed swabs when applicable. (Moisten swabs by pressing against solution-soaked sponge applicator.) avoid getting solution into hairy areas. Wet hair is flammable . Hair may take up to 1 hour to dry. when prepping skin folds, toes, or fingers, use a sterile-gloved hand to hold skin apart until completely dry. After Applying Solution: to reduce the risk of fire, wait until solution is completely dry (minimum of 3 minutes on hairless skin; up to 1 hour in hair) While Waiting for Solution to Completely Dry: do not drape or use ignition source (e.g., cautery, laser) check for pooled solution. Use sterile gauze to soak up pooled solution. Do not blot because it may remove solution from skin. remove wet materials from prep area. Replace if necessary. After Solution is Completely Dry: to reduce the risk of fire, begin draping and/or using cautery only after solution is completely dry and all wet materials are removed if incise drapes are used, apply directly to dry prep apply dressing following standard practices Activating the Applicator: remove applicator from package; do not touch sponge grasp products by wrapping hand and fingers around the labeled portion of the applicator. Place thumb on the lever with sponge face parallel to the floor, snap lever to allow fluid to flow into sponge. When Applying Solution: completely wet the treatment area with antiseptic dry surgical sites (e.g., abdomen or arm): use repeated back-and-forth strokes for 30 seconds moist surgical sites (e.g., inguinal fold): use repeated back-and-forth strokes for 2 minutes maximal treatment area for one applicator is approximately 8.4 in. x 15.6 in. (131.4 in 2 ). do not allow solution to pool ; tuck prep towels to absorb solution, and then remove avoid getting solution into hairy areas. Activating the Applicator: remove applicator from package; do not touch sponge grasp product by wrapping hand and fingers around the labeled portion of the applicator. (131.4 in 2 ) do not allow solution to pool ; tuck prep towels to absorb solution, and then remove avoid getting solution into hairy areas. Directions use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age. Healthcare personnel handwash: wet hands with water dispense about 5 mL of product into cupped hands and wash in vigorous manner for about 15 seconds rinse and dry throughly Skin wound and general skin cleansing: throughly rinse the area to be cleaned with water apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently rinse again throughly Recommended use is twice daily oral rinsing for 30 seconds, morning and evening after tooth brushing. Usual dosage is 15 ml (1 tablespoon) of undiluted chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse. Directions  use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age. Surgical hand scrub:  wet hands and forearms with water  scrub for 3 minutes with about 2.0 cubic inches of product and a wet brush, paying close attention to the nails, cuticles, and interdigital spaces  a separate nail cleaner may be used  rinse thoroughly  scrub for an additional 3 minutes with 2.0 cubic inches of product and rinse under running water  dry thoroughly Healthcare personnel handwash:  wet hands with water  dispense about 1.5 cubic inches of product into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for 15 seconds  rinse and dry thoroughly Surgical hand scrub:  wet hands and forearms with water  scrub for 3 minutes with 5 mL of solution (4 full strokes) and a wet brush, paying close attention to the nails, cuticles and interdigital spaces  a separate nail cleaner may be used  rinse thoroughly  wash for an additional 3 minutes with 5 mL of solution (4 full strokes) and rinse under running water  dry thoroughly Healthcare personnel handwash:  wet hands with water  dispense 5 mL of solution (4 full strokes) into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for 15 seconds  rinse and dry thoroughly
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Allergy alert: This product may cause a severe allergic reaction. Symptoms may include: wheezing/difficulty breathing shock facial swelling hives rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Do not use if you are allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product When using this product keep out of eyes, ears, and mouth. May cause serious and permanent eye injury if permitted to enter and remain in the eye or may cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated eardrums. if solution should contact these areas, rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water do not use routinely if you have wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation, sensitization, or allergic reaction occurs. These may be signs of a serious condition. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. WARNINGS The effect of chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse on periodontitis has not been determined. An increase in supragingival calculus was noted in clinical testing in chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse users compared with control users. It is not known if chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse use results in an increase in subgingival calculus. Calculus deposits should be removed by a dental prophylaxis at intervals not greater than six months. Anaphylaxis, as well as serious allergic reactions, have been reported during postmarketing use with dental products containing chlorhexidine. See CONTRAINDICATIONS . Warnings ● For external use only. ● Do not use: ○ On broken or punctured wounds. ○ On animal bites. ○ On serious burns. ● When using this product: ○ Avoid contact with eyes. If contact occurs, rinse thoroughly with water. ○ Do not apply large amounts to the body. ● Stop use and ask a doctor if: ○ Irritation or redness develops. ○ Condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days. WARNINGS The effect of chlorhexidine gluconate on periodontitis has not been determined. It is not known if chlorhexidine gluconate use results in an increase in subgingival calculus. See CONTRAINDICATIONS. The effect of chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse on periodontitis has not been determined. Warnings For external use only. Flammable, keep away from fire or flame. To reduce risk of fire, PREP CAREFULLY: do not use 26-mL applicator for head and neck surgery do not use on an area smaller than 8.4 in. x 15.6 in. Use a smaller applicator instead. solution contains alcohol and gives off flammable vapors avoid getting solution into hairy areas. Wet hair is flammable . Hair may take up to 1 hour to dry. do not drape or use ignition source (e.g., cautery, laser) until solution is completely dry (minimum of 3 minutes on hairless skin; up to 1 hour in hair) do not allow solution to pool remove wet materials from prep area Allergy Alert: This product may cause a severe allergic reaction. Do not use on patients with known allergies to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product for lumbar puncture or in contact with the meninges on open skin wounds or as a general skin cleanser When using this product keep out of eyes, ears, and mouth. May cause serious or permanent injury if permitted to enter and remain. If contact occurs, rinse with cold water right away and contact a doctor. to avoid skin injury, care should be taken when removing drapes, tapes, etc. Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation, sensitization, or allergic reaction occurs. To reduce risk of fire, PREP CAREFULLY: solution contains alcohol and gives off flammable vapors avoid getting solution into hairy areas. Warnings For external use only Allergy alert: This product may casue a severe allergic reaction. Symptoms may include: wheezing/difficulty breathing shock facial swelling hives rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away Do not use if you or the patient is allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product in contact with meninges in the gential area When using this product keep out of eyes, ears, and mouth. is solution should contact these areas, rinse out promptly and throughly with water wounds which involve more than the superfical layers of the skin should not be routinely treated repeated general skin cleansing of large body areas should not be done expect when advised by health care provider Stop use and ask a doctor if Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization, or allergic reaction occurs. There may be signs of a serious condition Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Symptoms may include:  wheezing/difficulty breathing  shock  facial swelling  hives  rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Do not use if you or the patient are allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product When using this product  keep out of eyes, ears, and mouth.  if solution should contact these areas, rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water  wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin should not be routinely treated Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation, sensitization, or allergic reaction occurs. For external use only Allergy alert: This product may cause a severe allergic reaction. Keep out of reach of children if swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS: This product should not be used by persons who are known to be hypersensitive to chlorhexidine gluconate or other formula ingredients. CONTRAINDICATIONS This product should not be used by persons who are known to be hypersensitive to chlorhexidine gluconate or other formula ingredients. Chlorhexidine gluconate oral rinse should not be used by persons who are known to be hypersensitive to chlorhexidine gluconate or other formula ingredients.

=== EPINEPHRINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: PURPOSE: May temporarily relieve sinus congestion, runny nose, and sneezing.** **Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. Not FDA evaluated. PURPOSE: Appetite suppressant to control empty feeling in stomach otherwise relieved by eating. Helps with metabolic tendencies to gain weight, helps to suppress cravings. Aids in mobilization of fatty tissue, resets the hypothalamus and provides immune support.† †Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. *Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. PURPOSE: Adrenalinum – Self-Consciousness, Agnus Castus - Shame, Aloe - Embarrassment, Ambra Grisea - Embarrassment, Aurum Muriaticum Natronatum – Lack of Confidence, Baryta Carbonica - Worthlessness, Calcarea Iodata – Fear of Failure, Candida Albicans - Guilt, Cerebrum Suis – Avoiding Attention, Cinchona Officinalis – Excessive Apologizing, Digitalis Purpurea - Shame, Hypothalamus Suis – Lack of Confidence, Ignatia Amara – Fear of Strangers, Lac Defloratum - Hiding, Lycopodium Clavatum – Fear of Failure, Natrum Muriaticum – Avoiding Attention, Rhus Glabra – Poor Eye Contact, Saccharum Officinale - Worthlessness, Serotonin (Hydrochloride) - Guilt, Staphysagria - Embarrassment, Thuja Occidentalis - Embarrassment
Indications: INDICATIONS: May temporarily relieve sinus congestion, runny nose, and sneezing.** **Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. Not FDA evaluated. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Epinephrine is a non-selective alpha and beta adrenergic agonist indicated to increase mean arterial blood pressure in adult patients with hypotension associated with septic shock. ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Hypotension associated with Septic Shock Epinephrine Injection USP, 1 mg/10 mL (0.1 mg/mL) is indicated to increase mean arterial blood pressure in adult patients with hypotension associated with septic shock. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Epinephrine is a non-selective alpha and beta adrenergic agonist indicated: • To increase mean arterial blood pressure in adult patients with hypotension associated with septic shock. ( 1.1 ) • For emergency treatment of allergic reactions (Type 1), including anaphylaxis. ( 1.2 ) • For induction and maintenance of mydriasis during intraocular surgery. ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Hypotension associated with Septic Shock Epinephrine Injection, 1 mg/mL is indicated to increase mean arterial blood pressure in adult patients with hypotension associated with septic shock. 1.2 Anaphylaxis Emergency treatment of allergic reactions (Type I), including anaphylaxis, which may result from allergic reactions to insect stings, biting insects, foods, drugs, sera, diagnostic testing substances and other allergens, as well as idiopathic anaphylaxis or exercise-induced anaphylaxis. The signs and symptoms associated with anaphylaxis include flushing, apprehension, syncope, tachycardia, thready or unobtainable pulse associated with hypotension, convulsions, vomiting, diarrhea and abdominal cramps, involuntary voiding, airway swelling, laryngospasm, bronchospasm, pruritus, urticaria or angioedema, swelling of the eyelids, lips, and tongue. 1.3 Induction and Maintenance of Mydriasis during Intraocular Surgery Induction and maintenance of mydriasis during intraocular surgery. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is indicated in adults for the production of local or regional anesthesia or analgesia for surgery, dental and oral surgery procedures, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and for obstetrical procedures. Specific concentrations and presentations of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection are recommended for each type of block indicated to produce local or regional anesthesia or analgesia [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection contains bupivacaine, an amide local anesthetic, and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is a combination of bupivacaine, an amide local anesthetic, and epinephrine, an alpha and beta-adrenergic agonist. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is indicated in adults for the production of local or regional anesthesia or analgesia for surgery, dental and oral surgery procedures, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and for obstetrical procedures. For each type of block indicated to produce local or regional anesthesia or analgesia, specific concentrations and presentations are recommended. ( 1 , 2.2 ) Limitations of Use Not all blocks are indicated for use with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection given clinically significant risks associated with use. ( 1 , 2.2 , 4 , 5.1 , 5.4 , 5.5 , 5.7 , 5.9 ) Limitations of Use Not all blocks are indicated for use with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection given clinically significant risks associated with use [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.4 , 5.5 , 5.7 , 5.9) ] . INDICATIONS: Appetite suppressant to control empty feeling in stomach otherwise relieved by eating. Helps with metabolic tendencies to gain weight, helps to suppress cravings. Aids in mobilization of fatty tissue, resets the hypothalamus and provides immune support.† †Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. INDICATIONS For the temporary relief of lethargy, lack of energy, sadness, anxiousness, or decreased ability to handle stress.* 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Epinephrine Injection, 0.3 mg and Epinephrine Injection, 0.15 mg are indicated in the emergency treatment of allergic reactions (Type I) including anaphylaxis to stinging insects (e.g., order Hymenoptera, which include bees, wasps, hornets, yellow jackets and fire ants) and biting insects (e.g., triatoma, mosquitoes), allergen immunotherapy, foods, drugs, diagnostic testing substances (e.g., radiocontrast media) and other allergens, as well as idiopathic anaphylaxis or exercise-induced anaphylaxis. Epinephrine Injection, 0.3 mg and Epinephrine Injection, 0.15 mg are intended for immediate administration in patients who are determined to be at increased risk for anaphylaxis, including individuals with a history of anaphylactic reactions. Anaphylactic reactions may occur within minutes after exposure and consist of flushing, apprehension, syncope, tachycardia, thready or unobtainable pulse associated with a fall in blood pressure, convulsions, vomiting, diarrhea and abdominal cramps, involuntary voiding, wheezing, dyspnea due to laryngeal spasm, pruritus, rashes, urticaria or angioedema. Epinephrine Injection, 0.3 mg and Epinephrine Injection, 0.15 mg are intended for immediate administration as emergency supportive therapy only and are not a substitute for immediate medical care. Epinephrine Injection, 0.3 mg and Epinephrine Injection, 0.15 mg contain epinephrine, are non-selective alpha and beta-adrenergic receptor agonist indicated in the emergency treatment of allergic reactions (Type I) including anaphylaxis. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Articaine HCl and Epinephrine is indicated for local, infiltrative, or conductive anesthesia in both simple and complex dental procedures in adults and pediatric patients 4 years of age and older. Articaine HCl and Epinephrine is a combination of articaine HCl, an amide local anesthetic, and epinephrine, a vasoconstrictor, indicated for local, infiltrative, or conductive anesthesia in both simple and complex dental procedures in adults and pediatric patients 4 years of age and older ( 1 ). USES: • For the temporary relief of symptoms including: • self-consciousness • shame • embarrassment • fear of strangers • lack of confidence • worthlessness •guilt • avoiding attention • hiding • excessive apologizing • fear of failure • poor eye contact These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. They have not been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration.
Dosage: DIRECTIONS: Adults and children 5 to 10 drops orally, 3 times daily or as otherwise directed by a health care professional. If symptoms persist for more than 7 days, consult your health care professional. Consult a physician for use in children under 12 years of age. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Hypotension associated with septic shock ( 2.2 ) : o Dilute epinephrine in dextrose solution prior to infusion. o Infuse epinephrine into a large vein. o Titrate 0.05 mcg/kg/min to 2 mcg/kg/min to achieve desired blood pressure. o Wean gradually. 2.1 General Considerations Inspect visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Do not use if the solution is colored or cloudy, or if it contains particulate matter. Discard any unused portion. 2.2 Hypotension associated with Septic Shock Dilute epinephrine in 5% Dextrose Injection, USP or 5% Dextrose and Sodium Chloride solution. These dextrose containing fluids provide protection against significant loss of potency by oxidation. Administration in saline solution alone is not recommended. If indicated, administer whole blood or plasma separately. Add the entire contents of epinephrine prefilled syringe to 1000 mL of a 5% Dextrose containing solution. Each mL of this dilution contains 1 mcg of epinephrine. Whenever possible, give infusions of epinephrine into a large vein. Avoid using a catheter tie-in technique, because the obstruction to blood flow around the tubing may cause stasis and increased local concentration of the drug. Avoid the veins of the leg in elderly patients or in those suffering from occlusive vascular diseases. To provide hemodynamic support in septic shock associated hypotension in adult patients, the suggested dosing infusion rate of intravenously administered epinephrine is 0.05 mcg/kg/min to 2 mcg/kg/min, and is titrated to achieve a desired mean arterial pressure (MAP). The dosage may be adjusted periodically, such as every 10 to 15 minutes, in increments of 0.05 mcg/kg/min to 0.2 mcg/kg/min, to achieve the desired blood pressure goal. After hemodynamic stabilization, wean incrementally over time, such as by decreasing doses of epinephrine every 30 minutes over a 12- to 24-hour period. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Hypotension associated with septic shock: o Dilute epinephrine in dextrose solution prior to infusion. ( 2.2 ) o Infuse epinephrine into a large vein. ( 2.2 ) o Titrate 0.05 to 2 mcg/kg/min to achieve desired blood pressure. ( 2.2 ) o Wean gradually. ( 2.2 ) • Anaphylaxis: Administer intramuscularly or subcutaneously into anterolateral thigh every 5 to 10 minutes as needed º Adults and children over 30 kg (66 lbs): 0.3 to 0.5 mg (0.3 to 0.5 mL) ( 2.3 ) º Children under 30 kg (66 lbs): 0.01 mg/kg (0.01 mL/kg) ( 2.3 ) • Intraocular surgery: o Dilute 1 mL with 100 to 1000 mL of an ophthalmic irrigation fluid, for ophthalmic irrigation or intracameral injection. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 General Considerations Inspect visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. 2.2 Hypotension associated with Septic Shock Dilute epinephrine in 5 percent dextrose solution or 5 percent dextrose and sodium chloride solution. Whole blood or plasma, if indicated to increase blood volume, should be administered separately. Add 1 mL (1 mg) of epinephrine from its ampule to 1,000 mL of a 5 percent dextrose containing solution. Correct blood volume depletion as fully as possible before any vasopressor is administered. When, as an emergency measure, intraaortic pressures must be maintained to prevent cerebral or coronary artery ischemia, epinephrine can be administered before and concurrently with blood volume replacement. Occlusive vascular diseases (for example, atherosclerosis, arteriosclerosis, diabetic endarteritis, Buerger’s disease) are more likely to occur in the lower than in the upper extremity; therefore, avoid the veins of the leg in elderly patients or in those suffering from such disorders. There is potential for gangrene in a lower extremity when infusions of catecholamine are given in an ankle vein. Continuous epinephrine infusion is generally required over several hours or days until the patient’s hemodynamic status improves. The duration of perfusion or total cumulative dose cannot be predicted. 2.3 Anaphylaxis Inject epinephrine intramuscularly or subcutaneously into the anterolateral aspect of the thigh, through clothing if necessary. When administering to a child, to minimize the risk of injection related injury, hold the leg firmly in place and limit movement prior to and during an injection. The injection may be repeated every 5 to 10 minutes as necessary. For intramuscular administration, use a needle long enough (at least 1/2 inch to 5/8 inch) to ensure the injection is administered into the muscle. Monitor the patient clinically for the severity of the allergic reaction and potential cardiac effects of the drug, with repeat doses titrated to effect. Do not administer repeated injections at the same site, as the resulting vasoconstriction may cause tissue necrosis. Adults and Children 30 kg (66 lbs) or more : 0.3 to 0.5 mg (0.3 to 0.5 mL) of undiluted epinephrine administered intramuscularly or subcutaneously in the anterolateral aspect of the thigh, up to a maximum of 0.5 mg (0.5 mL) per injection, repeated every 5 to 10 minutes as necessary. Monitor clinically for reaction severity and cardiac effects. Children less than 30 kg (66 lbs) : 0.01 mg/kg (0.01 mL/kg) of undiluted epinephrine administered intramuscularly or subcutaneously in the anterolateral aspect of the thigh repeated every 5 to 10 minutes as necessary. 2.4 Induction and Maintenance of Mydriasis during Intraocular Surgery Epinephrine must be diluted prior to intraocular use. Dilute 1 mL of epinephrine 1 mg/mL (1:1000) in 100 to 1000 mL of an ophthalmic irrigation fluid to create an epinephrine concentration of 1:100,000 to 1:1,000,000 (10 mcg/mL to 1 mcg/mL). Use the irrigating solution as needed for the surgical procedure. After dilution in an ophthalmic irrigating fluid, epinephrine may also be injected intracamerally as a bolus dose of 0.1 mL at a dilution of 1:100,000 to 1:400,000 (10 mcg/mL to 2.5 mcg/mL). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Not for intrathecal use. ( 2.1 ) • Avoid use of solutions containing antimicrobial preservatives (i.e., multiple-dose vials) for epidural or caudal anesthesia. ( 2.1 , 5.4 ) • Three mL of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection without antimicrobial preservative (0.5% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine) is recommended for use as a test dose prior to caudal and lumbar epidural blocks when clinical conditions permit. ( 2.4 ) • See full prescribing information for: - Recommended concentrations and dosages of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection according to type of block. ( 2.2 ) - Additional dosage and administration information pertaining to use in epidural anesthesia, test dose for caudal and lumbar epidural blocks, use in dentistry, and use in ophthalmic surgery. ( 2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information • Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is not for intrathecal use. • Avoid use of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection solutions containing antimicrobial preservatives (i.e., multiple-dose vials) for epidural or caudal anesthesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . • Discard unused portions of solution not containing preservatives, i.e., those supplied in single-dose vials, following initial use. • Visually inspect this product for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection are clear, colorless solutions. Do not administer solutions which are discolored or contain particulate matter. • Mixing or the prior or intercurrent use of any other local anesthetic with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is not recommended because of insufficient data on the clinical use of such mixtures. Administration Precautions • Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection are to be administered in carefully adjusted dosages by or under the supervision of experienced clinicians who are well versed in the diagnosis and management of dose-related toxicity and other acute emergencies which might arise from the block to be employed. • Use Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection only if the following are immediately available: oxygen, cardiopulmonary resuscitative equipment and drugs, and the personnel resources needed for proper management of toxic reactions and related emergencies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6) , Overdosage (10) ] . • The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. Monitor for neurologic and cardiovascular effects related to local anesthetic systemic toxicity when additional local anesthetics are administered with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Drug Interactions (7.1) , Overdosage (10) ] . • Aspirate for blood or cerebrospinal fluid (where applicable) prior to injecting Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection, both the initial dose and all subsequent doses, to avoid intravascular or intrathecal injection. However, a negative aspiration for blood or cerebrospinal fluid does not ensure against an intravascular or intrathecal injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . • Avoid rapid injection of a large volume of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and use fractional (incremental) doses when feasible. • During major regional nerve blocks, such as those of the brachial plexus or lower extremity, the patient should have an indwelling intravenous catheter to assure adequate intravenous access. The lowest dosage of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection that results in effective anesthesia should be used to avoid high plasma levels and serious adverse reactions. • Perform careful and constant monitoring of cardiovascular and respiratory (adequacy of oxygenation and ventilation) vital signs and the patient's level of consciousness after each local anesthetic injection. • Use Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection in carefully restricted quantities in areas of the body supplied by end arteries or having otherwise compromised blood supply such as digits, nose, external ear, or penis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . 2.2 Recommended Concentrations and Dosages of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection The dosage of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection administered varies with the anesthetic procedure, the area to be anesthetized, the vascularity of the tissues, the number of neuronal segments to be blocked, the depth of anesthesia and degree of muscle relaxation required, the duration of anesthesia desired, individual tolerance, and the physical condition of the patient. Administer the smallest dosage and concentration required to produce the desired result. The types of block and recommended Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection concentrations are shown in Table 1. Table 1. Types of Block and Recommended Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection Concentrations ✓= indicated use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Type of Block Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) is not recommended for nonobstetrical surgical procedures in pregnant patients. 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 0.5% (5 mg/mL) Local infiltration ✓ ✓ Peripheral nerve block ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Retrobulbar block ✓ Sympathetic block ✓ Caudal block Avoid use of multiple-dose vials of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection for caudal or epidural anesthesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Lumbar epidural block ✓ ✓ ✓ (not for obstetrical anesthesia) ✓ ✓ Epidural test dose ✓ Dental block ✓ At recommended dosages, Bupivacaine Hydrochloride/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine produces complete sensory block, but the effect on motor function differs among the three concentrations. Table 2 provides information on the expected effect on motor function for the three concentrations. Table 2. Types of Block and Recommended Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection Concentrations Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Concentration Motor Function 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) These products include Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection [the epinephrine concentration (1:200,000) is not included in the table]. When used for caudal, epidural, or peripheral nerve block, produces incomplete motor block. Should be used for operations in which muscle relaxation is not important, or when another means of providing muscle relaxation is used concurrently. Onset of action may be slower than with the 0.5% (5 mg/mL) or 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) solutions. 0.5% (5 mg/mL) Provides motor blockade for caudal, epidural, or nerve block, but muscle relaxation may be inadequate for operations in which complete muscle relaxation is essential. 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) These are only Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection products [there is no 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) concentration for Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection]. Produces complete motor block. Most useful for epidural block in abdominal operations requiring complete muscle relaxation, and for retrobulbar anesthesia. Not for obstetrical anesthesia. The duration of anesthesia with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is such that for most indications, a single dose is sufficient. The maximum dosage limit within the recommended dosage range must be individualized in each case after evaluating the size and physical status of the patient, as well as the anticipated rate of systemic absorption from a particular injection site. The dosages in Table 3 are recommended as a guide for use in the average adult. These doses may be repeated once every three hours. Do not exceed a total daily dosage of 400 mg in 24 hours. The duration of anesthetic effect may be prolonged by the addition of epinephrine. Table 3. Recommended Concentrations and Doses of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection in Adults Type of Block Concentration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Each Dose Motor Block With continuous (intermittent) techniques, repeat doses increase the degree of motor block. The first repeat dose of 0.5% (5 mg/mL) may produce complete motor block. Intercostal nerve block with 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) also may produce complete motor block for intra-thoracic and upper intra-abdominal surgery. mL mg of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Local infiltration 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) Solutions with or without epinephrine (i.e., applies to Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection). The Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection products include epinephrine (1:200,000). Up to 70 (without epinephrine) Up to 175 (without epinephrine) ― Up to 90 (with epinephrine) Up to 225 (with epinephrine) Peripheral nerve block 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 5–35 (without epinephrine) 25–175 (without epinephrine) moderate to complete 5–45 (with epinephrine) 25–225 (with epinephrine) 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 5–70 (without epinephrine) 12.5–175 (without epinephrine) moderate to complete 5–90 (with epinephrine) 12.5–225 (with epinephrine) Retrobulbar block [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) 2–4 15–30 complete Sympathetic block 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 20–50 50–125 ― Caudal block [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 15–30 75–150 moderate to complete 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 15–30 37.5–75 moderate Lumbar epidural block [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) For single-dose use; not for intermittent epidural technique. 10–20 75–150 complete 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 10–20 50–100 moderate to complete 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 10–20 25–50 partial to moderate Epidural test dose [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] 0.5% (5 mg/mL) with epinephrine 2–3 10–15 (10–15 micrograms epinephrine) ― Dental [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] 0.5% (5 mg/mL) with epinephrine 1.8–3.6 per site 9–18 per site ― 2.3 Use in Epidural Anesthesia During the administration of epidural anesthesia, it is recommended that a test dose of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection without antimicrobial preservative (0.5% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine) be administered initially and the effects monitored before the full dose is given. When using a "continuous" catheter technique, test doses should be given prior to both the initial and all supplemental doses, because a catheter in the epidural space can migrate into a blood vessel or through the dura [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . During epidural administration, administer Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection, 0.5% (5 mg/mL) and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) solutions in incremental doses of 3 mL to 5 mL with sufficient time between doses to detect toxic manifestations of unintentional intravascular or intrathecal injection. Administer injections slowly, with frequent aspirations before and during the injection to avoid intravascular injection. Perform syringe aspirations before and during each supplemental injection in continuous (intermittent) catheter techniques. In obstetrics, use ONLY the 0.5% (5 mg/mL) and 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) concentrations of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]; incremental doses of 3 mL to 5 mL of the 0.5% (5 mg/mL) solution not exceeding 50 mg to 100 mg at any dosing interval are recommended. Repeat doses should be preceded by a test dose containing epinephrine if not clinically contraindicated. Use only the single-dose vials for caudal or epidural anesthesia; avoid use of the multiple-dose vials for these procedures, which contain a preservative [see Dosage and Administration (2.1 , 2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.4 , 5.9) ] . 2.4 Test Dose for Caudal and Lumbar Epidural Blocks Three mL of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection without antimicrobial preservative (0.5% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine) is recommended for use as a test dose prior to caudal and lumbar epidural blocks when clinical conditions permit. This test dose may serve as a warning of unintended intravascular or intrathecal injection. Closely monitor for early clinical signs of toxicity following each test dose [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . Allot adequate time for onset of spinal block to detect possible intrathecal injection. An intravascular or intrathecal injection is still possible even if results of the test dose are negative. The test dose itself may produce a systemic toxic reaction, high spinal, or cardiovascular effects from the epinephrine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.9) , Overdosage (10) ]. 2.5 Use in Dentistry Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection 0.5% (5 mg/mL) is recommended for infiltration and block injection in the maxillary and mandibular area when a longer duration of local anesthesia is desired, such as for procedures generally associated with significant postoperative pain. The average dose of 1.8 mL (9 mg) per injection site will usually suffice; an occasional second dose of 1.8 mL (9 mg) may be used if necessary to produce adequate anesthesia after allowing 2 to 10 minutes for block onset [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Use the lowest effective dose and allow time between injections; it is recommended that the total dose for all injection sites, spread out over a single dental sitting, not exceed 90 mg for a healthy adult patient (ten 1.8 mL injections of 0.5% (5 mg/mL) Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection). Inject slowly and with frequent aspirations. 2.6 Use in Ophthalmic Surgery When Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) is used for retrobulbar block, complete corneal anesthesia usually precedes onset of clinically acceptable external ocular muscle akinesia. Therefore, presence of akinesia rather than anesthesia alone should determine readiness of the patient for surgery [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15) ] . DIRECTIONS: Adults: 3 to 5 sprays three to four times a day. Children under twelve, one half adult dosage. Do not take within 15 minutes of consuming food, beverage or brushing teeth. DIRECTIONS Place drops under tongue 30 minutes before/after meals. Adults and children 12 years and over: Take one full dropper up to 2 times per day. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Patients greater than or equal to 30 kg (66 lbs): Epinephrine injection, 0.3 mg ( 2 ) Patients 15 to 30 kg (33 lbs to 66 lbs): Epinephrine injection, 0.15 mg ( 2 ) Inject intramuscularly or subcutaneously into the anterolateral aspect of the thigh, through clothing if necessary. Each device is a single-dose injection. ( 2 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage According to Patient Body Weight Patients greater than or equal to 30 kg (approximately 66 pounds or more): Epinephrine injection, 0.3 mg Patients 15 kg to 30 kg (33 pounds to 66 pounds): Epinephrine injection, 0.15 mg 2.2 Administration Instructions Inject the single-dose epinephrine injection, 0.3 mg or epinephrine injection, 0.15 mg intramuscularly or subcutaneously into the anterolateral aspect of the thigh, through clothing if necessary. Do not inject intravenously, and do not inject into buttocks, into digits, hands or feet [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . Instruct caregivers of young children who are prescribed an epinephrine injection, 0.3 mg or epinephrine injection, 0.15 mg and who may be uncooperative and kick or move during an injection to hold the leg firmly in place and limit movement prior to and during an injection [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Each epinephrine injection, 0.3 mg or epinephrine injection, 0.15 mg is a single-dose epinephrine injection for single use. Since the doses of epinephrine delivered from epinephrine injection, 0.3 mg or epinephrine injection, 0.15 mg are fixed, consider using other forms of injectable epinephrine if doses lower than 0.15 mg are deemed necessary. With severe persistent anaphylaxis, repeat injections with an additional epinephrine injection, 0.3 mg or epinephrine injection, 0.15 mg may be necessary. More than two sequential doses of epinephrine should only be administered under direct medical supervision [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. The epinephrine solution in the clear window of the Epinephrine Injection 0.3 mg (Auto-Injector) or Epinephrine Injection 0.15 mg (Auto-Injector) should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration. Discarding After Use: The epinephrine injection 0.3 mg and epinephrine injection 0.15 mg each contain 1 mL epinephrine solution. Approximately 0.7 mL remains in the auto-injector after activation, but is not available for future use, and should be discarded. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For dental procedures by intraoral submucosal infiltration or nerve block ( 2.1 ): For infiltration: 0.5 mL-2.5 mL (20 mg-100 mg articaine HCl) ( 2.1 ) For nerve block: 0.5 mL-3.4 mL (20 mg-136 mg articaine HCl) ( 2.1 ) For oral surgery: 1 ml-5.1 mL (40 mg-204 mg articaine HCl) ( 2.1 ) For most routine dental procedures, Articaine HCl and Epinephrine containing epinephrine 1:200,000 is preferred. However, when more pronounced homeostasis or improved visualization of the surgical field are required, Articaine HCl and Epinephrine containing epinephrine 1:100,000 may be used. ( 2.1 ) Maximum recommended dosages ( 2.2 ): Healthy adults: 7 mg/kg of articaine HCl and 0.0017mg/kg of epinephrine (equivalent to 0.175 mL/kg for either product presentation, articaine HCl and epinephrine 1:100,000 or 1:200,000) Pediatric patients 4-16 years: 7 mg/kg of articaine HCl and 0.0017mg/kg of epinephrine (equivalent to 0.175 mL/kg for either product presentation, articaine HCl and epinephrine 1:100,000 or 1:200,000) 2.1 General Dosing Information Table 1 summarizes the recommended dosages of Articaine HCl and Epinephrine administered by intraoral submucosal infiltration or nerve block for various types of anesthetic dental procedures in healthy adults and pediatric patients. Table 1: Recommended Dosages for Both Strengths Procedure Articaine HCl and Epinephrine Injection Volume (mL) Total dose of articaine HCl (mg) Infiltration 0.5 mL to 2.5 mL 20 mg to 100 mg Nerve block 0.5 mL to 3.4 mL 20 mg to 136 mg Oral surgery 1 mL to 5.1 mL 40 mg to 204 mg The recommended dosages of Articaine HCl and Epinephrine in healthy adults serve only as a guide to the amount of anesthetic required for most routine dental procedures. The dosage to be used in adults depend on several factors such as type and extent of surgical procedure, depth of anesthesia, degree of muscular relaxation, and condition of the patient. In all cases, administer the lowest dosage that will produce the desired result. The dosages of Articaine HCl and Epinephrine to be used in pediatric patients aged 4 to 16 years old are determined by the age and weight of the patient and the type of dental procedure. For most routine dental procedures, Articaine HCl and Epinephrine containing epinephrine 1:200,000 is preferred. However, when more pronounced hemostasis or improved visualization of the surgical field are required, Articaine HCl and Epinephrine containing epinephrine 1:100,000 may be used. The onset of anesthesia and the duration of anesthesia are proportional to the dosage of the local anesthetic used. Exercise caution when employing large volumes because the incidence of adverse reactions may be dose-related. 2.2 Maximum Recommended Dosages Healthy Adults : The maximum dosage of Articaine HCl and Epinephrine is 7 mg/kg of articaine and 0.0017mg/kg of epinephrine (equivalent to 0.175 mL/kg for either product presentation, articaine HCl and 1:100,000 or 1:200,000 epinephrine). Pediatric Patients Ages 4 to 16 Years : The maximum dosage of Articaine HCl and Epinephrine is 7 mg/kg of articaine and 0.0017mg/kg of epinephrine (equivalent to 0.175 mL/kg for either product presentation, articaine HCl and 1:100,000 or 1:200,000 epinephrine) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )]. 2.3 Dosing in Special Populations Lower dosages or dosage reduction may be required in debilitated patients, acutely ill patients, elderly patients, and pediatric patients commensurate with their age and physical condition. No studies have been performed in patients with renal or liver impairment. Exercise caution when using Articaine HCl and Epinephrine in patients with severe liver disease. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 , 8.5 , and 8.6 )] 2.4 Important Administration Instructions Visually inspect Articaine HCl and Epinephrine for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Articaine HCl and Epinephrine (articaine HCl and epinephrine) Injection is available in glass cartridges. Prior to using the glass cartridges, disinfect by wiping the cap thoroughly with USP isopropyl alcohol (70%). Avoid use of isopropyl alcohol, as well as solutions of ethyl alcohol that are not of USP grade because they may contain denaturants that are injurious to rubber. Immersion is not recommended. DIRECTIONS: 1-10 drops under the tongue, 3 times a day or as directed by a health professional.
Warnings: WARNINGS: If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Do not use if tamper evident seal is broken or missing. Store in a cool, dry place. WARNINGS: Professional Use Only If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. If condition worsens, seek medical attention. KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Do not use if tamper evident seal is broken or missing. Store in a cool place after opening WARNINGS In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a poison control center right away. Keep out of the reach of children. If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a healthcare professional before use. WARNINGS: If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, contact a physician or Poison Control Center right away. Tamper Evident: Sealed for your protection. Do not use if seal is broken or missing.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None. None. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is contraindicated in: • obstetrical paracervical block anesthesia. Its use in this technique has resulted in fetal bradycardia and death. • intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier Block) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. • patients with a known hypersensitivity to bupivacaine or to any local anesthetic agent of the amide-type or to other components of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection. • Obstetrical paracervical block anesthesia. ( 4 ) • Intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier Block). ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to bupivacaine or to any local anesthetic agent of the amide-type or to other components of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Articaine HCl and Epinephrine is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to products containing sulfites. Products containing sulfites may cause allergic-type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people. Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in non-asthmatic people [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . Known hypersensitivity to sulfite ( 4 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that counter the pressor effects of epinephrine include alpha blockers, vasodilators such as nitrates, diuretics, antihypertensives, and ergot alkaloids. ( 7 .1) Drugs that potentiate the effects of epinephrine include sympathomimetics, beta blockers, tricyclic antidepressants, MAO inhibitors, COMT inhibitors, clonidine, doxapram, oxytocin, levothyroxine sodium, and certain antihistamines. ( 7 .2) Drugs that increase the arrhythmogenic potential of epinephrine include beta blockers, cyclopropane and halogenated hydrocarbon anesthetics, quinidine, antihistamines, exogenous thyroid hormones, diuretics, and cardiac glycosides. Observe for development of cardiac arrhythmias. ( 7 .3) Potassium-depleting drugs, including corticosteroids, diuretics, and theophylline, potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine. ( 7 .4) 7.1 Drugs Antagonizing Pressor Effects of Epinephrine • α-blockers, such as phentolamine • Vasodilators, such as nitrates • Diuretics • Antihypertensives • Ergot alkaloids • Phenothiazine antipsychotics 7.2 Drugs Potentiating Pressor Effects of Epinephrine • Sympathomimetics • β-blockers, such as propranolol • Tricyclic anti-depressants • Monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors • Catechol-O-methyl transferase (COMT) inhibitors, such as entacapon • Clonidine • Doxapram • Oxytocin 7.3 Drugs Potentiating Arrhythmogenic Effects of Epinephrine Patients who are concomitantly receiving any of the following drugs should be observed carefully for the development of cardiac arrhythmias [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) and Adverse Reactions (6)]. • β-blockers, such as propranolol • Cyclopropane or halogenated hydrocarbon anesthetics, such as halothane • Antihistamines • Thyroid hormones • Diuretics • Cardiac glycosides, such as digitalis glycosides • Quinidine 7.4 Drugs Potentiating Hypokalemic Effects of Epinephrine • Potassium depleting diuretics • Corticosteroids • Theophylline 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs antagonizing pressor effects of epinephrine • α-blockers, such as phentolamine • Vasodilators, such as nitrates • Diuretics • Antihypertensives • Ergot alkaloids Drugs potentiating pressor effects of epinephrine • Sympathomimetics • β-blockers, such as propranolol • Tricyclic anti-depressants • Monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors • Catechol-O-methyl transferase (COMT) inhibitors, such as entacapone • Clonidine • Doxapram • Oxytocin Drugs potentiating arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine . Patients who are concomitantly receiving any of the following drugs should be observed carefully for the development of cardiac arrhythmias [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) and Adverse Reactions (6) ] . • β-blockers, such as propranolol • Cyclopropane or halogenated hydrocarbon anesthetics, such as halothane • Antihistamines • Thyroid hormones • Diuretics • Cardiac glycosides, such as digitalis glycosides • Quinidine Drugs potentiating hypokalemic effects of epinephrine • Potassium depleting diuretics • Corticosteroids • Theophylline Epinephrine should not be used to counteract circulatory collapse or hypotension caused by phenothiazines, as a reversal of the pressor effects of epinephrine may result in further lowering of blood pressure. Epinephrine may antagonize the neuronal blockade produced by guanethidine resulting in decreased antihypertensive effect and requiring increased dosage of the latter. • Drugs that counter the pressor effects of epinephrine include alpha blockers, vasodilators such as nitrates, diuretics, antihypertensives, and ergot alkaloids. ( 7 ) • Drugs that potentiate the effects of epinephrine include sympathomimetics, beta blockers, tricyclic antidepressants, MAO inhibitors, COMT inhibitors, clonidine, doxapram, oxytocin, levothyroxine sodium, and certain antihistamines. ( 7 ) • Drugs that increase the arrhythmogenic potential of epinephrine include beta blockers, cyclopropane and halogenated hydrocarbon anesthetics, quinidine, antihistamines, exogenous thyroid hormones, diuretics, and cardiac glycosides. ( 7 ) • Potassium-depleting drugs, including corticosteroids, diuretics, and theophylline, potentiate the hypokalemic effects of epinephrine. ( 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Local Anesthetics : The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. Monitor for neurologic and cardiovascular effects when additional local anesthetics are administered. ( 7.1 ) • Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants : Administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. Concurrent use of these agents should generally be avoided. ( 5.6 , 7.2 ) • Ergot-Type Oxytocic Drugs : Concurrent administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and ergot-type oxytocic drugs may cause severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents. ( 5.6 , 7.3 ) • Nonselective Beta-Adrenergic Antagonists : Administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection (containing a vasoconstrictor) in patients receiving nonselective beta-adrenergic antagonists may cause severe hypertension and bradycardia. ( 5.6 , 7.4 ) • Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia : Patients are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to nitrates, nitrites, local anesthetics, antineoplastic agents, antibiotics, antimalarials, anticonvulsants, and other drugs. ( 7.5 ) • Potent Inhalation Anesthetics : Serious dose-related cardiac arrhythmias may occur if preparations containing a vasoconstrictor such as epinephrine are used in patients during or following the administration of potent inhalation anesthetics. ( 5.13 , 7.6 ) 7.1 Local Anesthetics The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. If coadministration of other local anesthetics with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection cannot be avoided, monitor patients for neurologic and cardiovascular effects related to local anesthetic systemic toxicity [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants The administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors, or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful monitoring of the patient's hemodynamic status is essential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . 7.3 Ergot-Type Oxytocic Drugs Concurrent administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and ergot-type oxytocic drugs may cause severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents. Avoid use of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine concomitantly with ergot-type oxytocic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. 7.4 Nonselective Beta-Adrenergic Antagonists Administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection (containing a vasoconstrictor) in patients receiving nonselective beta-adrenergic antagonists may cause severe hypertension and bradycardia. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful monitoring of the patient's blood pressure and heart rate is essential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. 7.5 Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia Patients who are administered Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following drugs, which could include other local anesthetics [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia: Class Examples Nitrates/Nitrites nitric oxide, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, nitrous oxide Local anesthetics articaine, benzocaine, bupivacaine, lidocaine, mepivacaine, prilocaine, procaine, ropivacaine, tetracaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide, flutamide, hydroxyurea, ifosfamide, rasburicase Antibiotics dapsone, nitrofurantoin, para-aminosalicylic acid, sulfonamides Antimalarials chloroquine, primaquine Anticonvulsants phenobarbital, phenytoin, sodium valproate Other drugs acetaminophen, metoclopramide, quinine, sulfasalazine 7.6 Potent Inhalation Anesthetics Serious dose-related cardiac arrhythmias may occur if preparations containing a vasoconstrictor such as epinephrine (e.g., Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection) are used in patients during or following the administration of potent inhalation anesthetics [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] . 7.7 Phenothiazines and Butyrophenones Phenothiazines and butyrophenones may reduce or reverse the pressor effect of epinephrine. Concurrent use of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and these agents should generally be avoided. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful patient monitoring is essential. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Cardiac Glycosides, Diuretics, and Anti-arrhythmics Patients who receive epinephrine while concomitantly taking cardiac glycosides, diuretics, or anti-arrhythmics should be observed carefully for the development of cardiac arrhythmias [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ]. Antidepressants, Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors, Levothyroxine, and Antihistamines The effects of epinephrine may be potentiated by tricyclic antidepressants, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, levothyroxine sodium, and certain antihistamines, notably chlorpheniramine, tripelennamine, and diphenhydramine. Beta-Adrenergic Blockers The cardiostimulating and bronchodilating effects of epinephrine are antagonized by beta-adrenergic blocking drugs, such as propranolol. Alpha-Adrenergic Blockers The vasoconstricting and hypertensive effects of epinephrine are antagonized by alpha-adrenergic blocking drugs, such as phentolamine. Ergot Alkaloids Ergot alkaloids may also reverse the pressor effects of epinephrine. Cardiac glycosides or diuretics: observe for development of cardiac arrhythmias. ( 7 ) Tricyclic antidepressants, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, levothyroxine sodium, and certain antihistamines potentiate effects of epinephrine. ( 7 ) Beta-adrenergic blocking drugs antagonize cardiostimulating and bronchodilating effects of epinephrine. ( 7 ) Alpha-adrenergic blocking drugs antagonize vasoconstricting and hypertensive effects of epinephrine. ( 7 ) Ergot alkaloids may reverse the pressor effects of epinephrine. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The administration of local anesthetic solutions containing epinephrine to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors, nonselective beta-adrenergic antagonists or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. Phenothiazines and butyrophenones may reduce or reverse the pressor effect of epinephrine. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful patient monitoring is essential [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Patients who are administered local anesthetics are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following drugs, which could include other local anesthetics: Table 5: Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia: Class Examples Nitrates/Nitrites nitric oxide, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, nitrous oxide Local anesthetics articaine, benzocaine, bupivacaine, lidocaine, mepivacaine, prilocaine, ropivacaine, procaine, tetracaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide, flutamide, hydroxyurea, ifosfamide, rasburicase Antibiotics dapsone, nitrofurantoin, para-aminosalicylic acid, sulfonamides Antimalarials chloroquine, primaquine Anticonvulsants phenobarbital, phenytoin, sodium valproate, Other drugs acetaminophen, metoclopramide, quinine, sulfasalazine Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors, Nonselective Beta-adrenergic Antagonists, or Tricyclic Antidepressants : May produce severe, prolonged hypertension ( 7 ) Phenothiazines and butyrophenones : May reduce or reverse the pressor effect of epinephrine ( 7 )

=== LOSARTAN POTASSIUM AND HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are a combination of losartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and hydrochlorothiazide, a diuretic indicated for: Treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. ( 1.1 ) Reduction of the risk of stroke in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. There is evidence that this benefit does not apply to Black patients. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Hypertension Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure lowers the risk of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular (CV) events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarction. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including losartan and hydrochlorothiazide. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than 1 drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in Black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. This fixed dose combination is not indicated for initial therapy of hypertension, except when the hypertension is severe enough that the value of achieving prompt blood pressure control exceeds the risk of initiating combination therapy in these patients [see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )]. Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. 1.2 Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy, but there is evidence that this benefit does not apply to Black patients. [See Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ), and Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ).] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet is a combination of losartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and hydrochlorothiazide, a diuretic indicated for: Treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. ( 1.1) Reduction of the risk of stroke in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Hypertension Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program's Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. 1.2 Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet is indicated to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy, but there is evidence that this benefit does not apply to Black patients. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide is a combination of losartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and hydrochlorothiazide, a diuretic indicated for: Treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Hypertension Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. This fixed dose combination is not indicated for initial therapy of hypertension, except when the hypertension is severe enough that the value of achieving prompt blood pressure control exceeds the risk of initiating combination therapy in these patients [see Clinical Studies (14) and Dosage and Administration (2.1) ]. Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. 1.2 Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide is indicated to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy, but there is evidence that this benefit does not apply to Black patients. [See Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , and Dosage and Administration (2.2) .] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet is a combination of losartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and hydrochlorothiazide, a diuretic indicated for: • Treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. ( 1.1) • Reduction of the risk of stroke in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypertension Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension. This fixed dose combination is not indicated for initial therapy of hypertension, except when the hypertension is severe enough that the value of achieving prompt blood pressure control exceeds the risk of initiating combination therapy in these patients (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP are indicated to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy, but there is evidence that this benefit does not apply to Black patients (see PRECAUTIONS, Race , CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Losartan Potassium, Reduction in the Risk of Stroke, Race , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide is a combination of losartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and hydrochlorothiazide, a diuretic indicated for: • Treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. () • Reduction of the risk of stroke in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. () 1.1 Hypertension Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. This fixed dose combination is not indicated for initial therapy of hypertension, except when the hypertension is severe enough that the value of achieving prompt blood pressure control exceeds the risk of initiating combination therapy in these patients [see Clinical Studies (14) and ]. [See , , and ]. [See Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , and Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP are a combination of losartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and hydrochlorothiazide, a diuretic indicated for: · Treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. (1.1) · Reduction of the risk of stroke in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. (1.2) 1.1 Hypertension Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. This fixed dose combination is not indicated for initial therapy of hypertension, except when the hypertension is severe enough that the value of achieving prompt blood pressure control exceeds the risk of initiating combination therapy in these patients [see Clinical Studies (14) and Dosage and Administration (2.1)]. Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. 1.2 Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP are indicated to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy, but there is evidence that this benefit does not apply to Black patients. [See Use in Specific Populations (8.6), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3), and Dosage and Administration (2.5).]
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension Usual starting dose: 50/12.5 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) Titrate as needed to a maximum dose of 100/25 mg. ( 2.1 ) Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy Not controlled on monotherapy: Initiate with 50/12.5 mg. Titrate as needed to a maximum of 100/25 mg. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Hypertension The usual starting dose of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is 50/12.5 (losartan 50 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg) once daily. The dosage can be increased after 3 weeks of therapy to a maximum of 100/25 (losartan 100 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg) once daily as needed to control blood pressure [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with losartan 50 mg monotherapy with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50/12.5 once daily. If blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy, the dosage may be increased to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50/12.5 once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100/25 once daily. Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with losartan 100 mg monotherapy with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100/12.5 (losartan 100 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg) once daily. If blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy, increase the dose to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50/12.5 once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100/25 once daily. Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is inadequately controlled with hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg once daily, or is controlled but who experiences hypokalemia with this regimen, on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50/12.5 once daily, reducing the dose of hydrochlorothiazide without reducing the overall expected antihypertensive response. Evaluate the clinical response to losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50/12.5 and, if blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy, increase the dose to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50/12.5 once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100/25 once daily. 2.2 Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy In patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on 50 mg losartan potassium, initiate treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50/12.5. If additional blood pressure reduction is needed, increase the dose to losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100/12.5, followed by losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100/25. For further blood pressure reduction add other antihypertensives [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Hypertension The usual starting dose of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet is 50/12.5 (losartan 50 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg) once daily. Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with losartan 50 mg monotherapy with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 50/12.5 once daily. If blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy, the dosage may be increased to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 50/12.5 once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 100/25 once daily. Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with losartan 100 mg monotherapy with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 100/12.5 (losartan 100 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg) once daily. If blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy, increase the dose to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 50/12.5 once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 100/25 once daily. Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is inadequately controlled with hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg once daily, or is controlled but who experiences hypokalemia with this regimen, on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 50/12.5 once daily, reducing the dose of hydrochlorothiazide without reducing the overall expected antihypertensive response. Evaluate the clinical response to losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 50/12.5 and, if blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy, increase the dose to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 50/12.5 once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 100/25 once daily. 2.2 Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy In patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on 50 mg losartan potassium, initiate treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 50/12.5. If additional blood pressure reduction is needed, increase the dose to losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 100/12.5, followed by losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 100/25. For further blood pressure reduction add other antihypertensives [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension • Usual starting dose: 50/12.5 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) • Titrate as needed to a maximum dose of 100/25 mg. ( 2.1 ) Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy • Not controlled on monotherapy: Initiate with 50/12.5 mg. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Hypertension The usual starting dose of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide is 50/12.5 (losartan 50 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg) once daily. The dosage can be increased after 3 weeks of therapy to a maximum of 100/25 (losartan 100 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg) once daily as needed to control blood pressure [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with losartan 50 mg monotherapy with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 50/12.5 once daily. If blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy, the dosage may be increased to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 50/12.5 once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 100/25 once daily. Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with losartan 100 mg monotherapy with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 100/12.5 (losartan 100 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg) once daily. If blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy, increase the dose to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 50/12.5 once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 100/25 once daily. Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is inadequately controlled with hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg once daily, or is controlled but who experiences hypokalemia with this regimen, on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 50/12.5 once daily, reducing the dose of hydrochlorothiazide without reducing the overall expected antihypertensive response. Evaluate the clinical response to losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 50/12.5 and, if blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy, increase the dose to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 50/12.5 once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 100/25 once daily. 2.2 Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy In patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on 50 mg losartan potassium, initiate treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 50/12.5. If additional blood pressure reduction is needed, increase the dose to losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 100/12.5, followed by losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 100/25. For further blood pressure reduction add other antihypertensives [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension Dosing must be individualized. The usual starting dose of losartan is 50 mg once daily, with 25 mg recommended for patients with intravascular volume depletion (e.g., patients treated with diuretics) (see WARNINGS, Hypotension - Volume-Depleted Patients ) and patients with a history of hepatic impairment (see WARNINGS, Impaired Hepatic Function ). Losartan can be administered once or twice daily at total daily doses of 25 to 100 mg. If the antihypertensive effect measured at trough using once-a-day dosing is inadequate, a twice-a-day regimen at the same total daily dose or an increase in dose may give a more satisfactory response. Hydrochlorothiazide is effective in doses of 12.5 to 50 mg once daily and can be given at doses of 12.5 to 25 mg as losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. To minimize dose-independent side effects, it is usually appropriate to begin combination therapy only after a patient has failed to achieve the desired effect with monotherapy. The side effects (see WARNINGS ) of losartan are generally rare and apparently independent of dose; those of hydrochlorothiazide are a mixture of dose-dependent (primarily hypokalemia) and dose-independent phenomena (e.g., pancreatitis), the former much more common than the latter. Therapy with any combination of losartan and hydrochlorothiazide will be associated with both sets of dose-independent side effects. Replacement Therapy The combination may be substituted for the titrated components. Dose Titration by Clinical Effect A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with losartan monotherapy (see above) or hydrochlorothiazide alone may be switched to losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50 mg/12.5 mg once daily. If blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy, the dose may be increased to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg/12.5 mg once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 100 mg/25 mg once daily. A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with losartan 100 mg monotherapy (see above) may be switched to losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100 mg/12.5 mg once daily. A patient whose blood pressure is inadequately controlled by 25 mg once daily of hydrochlorothiazide, or is controlled but who experiences hypokalemia with this regimen, may be switched to losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50 mg/12.5 mg once daily, reducing the dose of hydrochlorothiazide without reducing the overall expected antihypertensive response. The clinical response to losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50 mg/12.5 mg should be subsequently evaluated, and if blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy, the dose may be increased to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg/12.5 mg once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 100 mg/25 mg once daily. The usual dose of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide is one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg/12.5 mg once daily. More than two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg/12.5 mg once daily or more than one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 100 mg/25 mg once daily is not recommended. The maximal antihypertensive effect is attained about 3 weeks after initiation of therapy. Use in Patients with Renal Impairment The usual regimens of therapy with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be followed as long as the patient's creatinine clearance is greater than 30 mL/min. In patients with more severe renal impairment, loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides, so losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not recommended. Patients with Hepatic Impairment Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not recommended for titration in patients with hepatic impairment (see WARNINGS, Impaired Hepatic Function ) because the appropriate 25 mg starting dose of losartan cannot be given. Severe Hypertension The starting dose of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets for initial treatment of severe hypertension is one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg/12.5 mg once daily (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects ). For patients who do not respond adequately to losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50 mg/12.5 mg after 2 to 4 weeks of therapy, the dosage may be increased to one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 100 mg/25 mg once daily. The maximum dose is one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 100 mg/25 mg once daily. Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not recommended as initial therapy in patients with hepatic impairment (see WARNINGS, Impaired Hepatic Function ) because the appropriate 25 mg starting dose of losartan cannot be given. It is also not recommended for use as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion (e.g., patients treated with diuretics, see WARNINGS, Hypotension - Volume-Depleted Patients ). Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy Treatment should be initiated with losartan potassium 50 mg once daily. Hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg should be added or losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50 mg/12.5 mg substituted if the blood pressure reduction is inadequate. If additional blood pressure reduction is needed, losartan potassium 100 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg or losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100 mg/12.5 mg may be substituted, followed by losartan potassium 100 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg or losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100 mg/25 mg. For further blood pressure reduction other antihypertensives should be added (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects, Losartan Potassium, Reduction in the Risk of Stroke ). Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be administered with or without food. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension • Usual starting dose: 50 mg/12.5 mg once daily. () • Titrate as needed to a maximum dose of 100 mg/25 mg. () Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy • Not controlled on monotherapy: Initiate with 50 mg/12.5 mg. Titrate as needed to a maximum of 100 mg/25 mg. () 2.1 Hypertension The usual starting dose of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is 50 mg/12.5 mg (losartan 50 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg) once daily. The dosage can be increased after 3 weeks of therapy to a maximum of 100 mg/25 mg (losartan 100 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg) once daily as needed to control blood pressure [see ]. Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with losartan 50 mg monotherapy with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50 mg/12.5 mg once daily. If blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy, the dosage may be increased to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg/12.5 mg once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 100 mg/25 mg once daily. Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with losartan 100 mg monotherapy with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100 mg/12.5 mg (losartan 100 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg) once daily. If blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy, increase the dose to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg/12.5 mg once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 100 mg/25 mg once daily. Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is inadequately controlled with hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg once daily, or is controlled but who experiences hypokalemia with this regimen, on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50 mg/12.5 mg once daily, reducing the dose of hydrochlorothiazide without reducing the overall expected antihypertensive response. Evaluate the clinical response to losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50 mg/12.5 mg and, if blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy, increase the dose to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg/12.5 mg once daily or one tablet of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide 100 mg/25 mg once daily. 2.2 Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy In patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on 50 mg losartan potassium, initiate treatment with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50 mg/12.5 mg. If additional blood pressure reduction is needed, increase the dose to losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100 mg/12.5 mg, followed by losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100 mg/25 mg. For further blood pressure reduction add other antihypertensives [see Clinical Studies (14) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension Usual starting dose: 50 mg/12.5 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) Titrate as needed to a maximum dose of 100 mg/25 mg. ( 2.1 ) Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy Not controlled on monotherapy: Initiate with 50 mg/12.5 mg. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Hypertension The usual starting dose of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is 50 mg/12.5 mg (losartan 50 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg) once daily. The dosage can be increased after 3 weeks of therapy to a maximum of 100 mg/25 mg (losartan 100 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg) once daily as needed to control blood pressure [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with losartan 50 mg monotherapy with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 50 mg/12.5 mg (losartan 100 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg) once daily. Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with losartan 100 mg monotherapy with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 100 mg/12.5 mg once daily. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension · Usual starting dose: 50/12.5 mg once daily. (2.1) · Titrate as needed to a maximum dose of 100/25 mg. (2.1) Hypertensive Patients with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy · Not controlled on monotherapy: Initiate with 50/12.5 mg. (2.2) 2.1 Hypertension The usual starting dose of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet is 50/12.5 (losartan 50 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg) once daily. The dosage can be increased after 3 weeks of therapy to a maximum of 100/25 (losartan 100 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg) once daily as needed to control blood pressure [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. If blood pressure remains uncontrolled after about 3 weeks of therapy, the dosage may be increased to two tablets of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 50/12.5 once daily or one tablet of 100/25 once daily. For further blood pressure reduction add other antihypertensives [see Clinical Studies (14)] .
Warnings: WARNINGS Fetal Toxicity Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide as soon as possible. These adverse outcomes are usually associated with the use of these drugs in the second and third trimester of pregnancy. Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin-angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents. Appropriate management of maternal hypertension during pregnancy is important to optimize outcomes for both mother and fetus. In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the rennin-angiotensin system for a particular patient, apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus. Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra-amniotic environment. If oligohydramnios is observed, discontinue losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide, unless it is considered life-saving for the mother. Fetal testing may be appropriate, based on the week of pregnancy. Patients and physicians should be aware, however, that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury. Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide for hypotension, oliguria, and hyperkalemia (see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use ). There was no evidence of teratogenicity in rats or rabbits treated with a maximum losartan potassium dose of 10 mg/kg/day in combination with 2.5 mg/kg/day of hydrochlorothiazide. At these dosages, respective exposures (AUCs) of losartan, its active metabolite, and hydrochlorothiazide in rabbits were approximately 5, 1.5, and 1 times those achieved in humans with 100 mg losartan in combination with 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide. AUC values for losartan, its active metabolite and hydrochlorothiazide, extrapolated from data obtained with losartan administered to rats at a dose of 50 mg/kg/day in combination with 12.5 mg/kg/day of hydrochlorothiazide, were approximately 6, 2, and 2 times greater than those achieved in humans with 100 mg of losartan in combination with 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide. Fetal toxicity in rats, as evidenced by a slight increase in supernumerary ribs, was observed when females were treated prior to and throughout gestation with 10 mg/kg/day losartan in combination with 2.5 mg/kg/day hydrochlorothiazide. As also observed in studies with losartan alone, adverse fetal and neonatal effects, including decreased body weight, renal toxicity, and mortality, occurred when pregnant rats were treated during late gestation and/or lactation with 50 mg/kg/day losartan in combination with 12.5 mg/kg/day hydrochlorothiazide. Respective AUCs for losartan, its active metabolite and hydrochlorothiazide at these dosages in rats were approximately 35, 10 and 10 times greater than those achieved in humans with the administration of 100 mg of losartan in combination with 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide. When hydrochlorothiazide was administered without losartan to pregnant mice and rats during their respective periods of major organogenesis, at doses up to 3000 and 1000 mg/kg/day, respectively, there was no evidence of harm to the fetus. Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood. There is a risk of fetal or neonatal jaundice, thrombocytopenia, and possibly other adverse reactions that have occurred in adults. Hypotension - Volume-Depleted Patients In patients who are intravascularly volume-depleted (e.g., those treated with diuretics), symptomatic hypotension may occur after initiation of therapy with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide. This condition should be corrected prior to administration of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Impaired Hepatic Function Losartan Potassium and Hydrochlorothiazide Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide is not recommended for patients with hepatic impairment who require titration with losartan. The lower starting dose of losartan recommended for use in patients with hepatic impairment cannot be given using losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide. Hydrochlorothiazide Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease, since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma. Hypersensitivity Reaction Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma, but are more likely in patients with such a history. Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Thiazide diuretics have been reported to cause exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus. Lithium Interaction Lithium generally should not be given with thiazides. Monitor serum lithium levels in patients receiving lithium and hydrochlorothiazide (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions, Hydrochlorothiazide , Lithium ) . Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated: In patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. In patients with anuria For coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes Hypersensitivity to any component of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. ( 4 ) Anuria. ( 4 ) Coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet is contraindicated: In patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide is contraindicated: In patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. In patients with anuria For coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes Hypersensitivity to any component of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet is contraindicated: • In patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. • In patients with anuria • For coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes • Hypersensitivity to any component of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. ( 4 ) • Anuria. ( 4 ) • Coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes. CONTRAINDICATIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. Because of the hydrochlorothiazide component, this product is contraindicated in patients with anuria or hypersensitivity to other sulfonamide-derived drugs. Do not co-administer aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated: • In patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. () • Anuria. () • Coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes. () • In patients with anuria • For coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes Hypersensitivity to any component of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablet is contraindicated: · In patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. · In patients with anuria · For coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes · Hypersensitivity to any component of losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. (4) · Anuria. (4) · Coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes. (4)
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Agents increasing serum potassium: Risk of hyperkalemia. ( 7.1 ) Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity. ( 7.2 ) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): increased risk of renal impairment and reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects. ( 7.3 ) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, syncope, and hyperkalemia. ( 7.4 ) Antidiabetic drugs: dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required. ( 7.5 ) Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides. ( 7.5 ) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of losartan with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. Monitor serum potassium in such patients. 7.2 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported with concomitant use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists or thiazide diuretics. Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and lithium. 7.3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors Losartan Potassium In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including losartan) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving losartan and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including losartan, may be attenuated by NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Hydrochlorothiazide The administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent including a selective COX-2 inhibitor can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents including selective COX-2 inhibitors are used concomitantly, observe closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. In patients receiving diuretic therapy, coadministration of NSAIDs with angiotensin receptor blockers, including losartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving hydrochlorothiazide, losartan, and NSAID therapy. 7.4 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial enrolled 1,448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 to 89.9 mL/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR, end-stage renal disease, or death, but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). 7.5 The Use of Hydrochlorothiazide with Other Drugs When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]: Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) — dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins — Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent, respectively. Stagger the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and the resin such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of the resin. Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving losartan and hydrochlorothiazide and lithium. Therefore, when losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents including selective COX-2 inhibitors are used concomitantly, observe closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. The Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes (VA NEPHRON-D) trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 to 89.9 mL/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. Avoid use of aliskiren with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). 7.5 The Use of Hydrochlorothiazide with Other Drugs When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]: Antidiabetic Drugs (Oral Agents and Insulin) Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Cholestyramine and Colestipol Resins Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and lithium. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). 7.5 The Use of Hydrochlorothiazide with Other Drugs When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]: Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) — dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Agents increasing serum potassium: Risk of hyperkalemia. ( 7.1 ) • Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity. ( 7.2 ) • Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): increased risk of renal impairment and reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects. ( 7.3 ) • Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, syncope, and hyperkalemia. ( 7.4 ) • Antidiabetic drugs: dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required. ( 7.5 ) • Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides. Drug Interactions Losartan Potassium Losartan, administered for 12 days, did not affect the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of a single dose of warfarin. Losartan did not affect the pharmacokinetics of oral or intravenous digoxin. There is no pharmacokinetic interaction between losartan and hydrochlorothiazide. Coadministration of losartan and cimetidine led to an increase of about 18% in AUC of losartan but did not affect the pharmacokinetics of its active metabolite. Coadministration of losartan and phenobarbital led to a reduction of about 20% in the AUC of losartan and that of its active metabolite. A somewhat greater interaction (approximately 40% reduction in the AUC of active metabolite and approximately 30% reduction in the AUC of losartan) has been reported with rifampin. Fluconazole, an inhibitor of cytochrome P450 2C9, decreased the AUC of the active metabolite by approximately 40%, but increased the AUC of losartan by approximately 70% following multiple doses. Conversion of losartan to its active metabolite after intravenous administration is not affected by ketoconazole, an inhibitor of P450 3A4. The AUC of active metabolite following oral losartan was not affected by erythromycin, another inhibitor of P450 3A4, but the AUC of losartan was increased by 30%. Hydrochlorothiazide After oral administration of hydrochlorothiazide, diuresis begins within 2 hours, peaks in about 4 hours and lasts about 6 to 12 hours. Hydrochlorothiazide is not metabolized but is eliminated rapidly by the kidney. When plasma levels have been followed for at least 24 hours, the plasma half-life has been observed to vary between 5.6 and 14.8 hours. At least 61 percent of the oral dose is eliminated unchanged within 24 hours. Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the placental but not the blood-brain barrier and is excreted in breast milk. Drug Interactions Losartan Potassium No significant drug-drug pharmacokinetic interactions have been found in interaction studies with hydrochlorothiazide, digoxin, warfarin, cimetidine and phenobarbital. Rifampin, an inducer of drug metabolism, decreased the concentrations of losartan and its active metabolite (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Drug Interactions ). In humans, two inhibitors of P450 3A4 have been studied. Ketoconazole did not affect the conversion of losartan to the active metabolite after intravenous administration of losartan, and erythromycin had no clinically significant effect after oral administration. Fluconazole, an inhibitor of P450 2C9, decreased active metabolite concentration and increased losartan concentration. The pharmacodynamic consequences of concomitant use of losartan and inhibitors of P450 2C9 have not been examined. Subjects who do not metabolize losartan to active metabolite have been shown to have a specific, rare defect in cytochrome P450 2C9. These data suggest that the conversion of losartan to its active metabolite is mediated primarily by P450 2C9 and not P450 3A4. As with other drugs that block angiotensin II or its effects, concomitant use of potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, amiloride), potassium supplements, or salt substitutes containing potassium may lead to increases in serum potassium (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients, Potassium Supplements ). Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including losartan) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR, end stage renal disease, or death, but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group. Do not co-administer aliskiren with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes. Hydrochlorothiazide When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics: Alcohol, barbiturates, or narcotics - potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur. Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) - dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Other antihypertensive drugs - additive effect or potentiation. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins - Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Corticosteroids, ACTH, or glycyrrhizin (found in liquorice) - intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia. Pressor amines (e.g., norepinephrine) - possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use. Skeletal muscle relaxants, nondepolarizing (e.g., tubocurarine) - possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant. Lithium - should not generally be given with diuretics. Diuretic agents reduce the renal clearance of lithium and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use . Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) - The administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent, including a selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when losartan potassium and hydrochlorothiazide and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, including selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors, are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. In patients receiving diuretic therapy, co-administration of NSAIDs with angiotensin receptor blockers, including losartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. () • Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity. () • Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): increased risk of renal impairment and reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects. () • Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, syncope, and hyperkalemia. () • Antidiabetic drugs: dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required. () • Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides. () 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of losartan with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. 7.5 The Use of Hydrochlorothiazide with Other Drugs When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics [see ]: Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) — dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS · Agents increasing serum potassium: Risk of hyperkalemia. (7.1) · Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity. (7.2) · Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): increased risk of renal impairment and reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects. (7.3) · Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, syncope, and hyperkalemia. (7.4) · Antidiabetic drugs: dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required. (7.5) · Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides. (7.5) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of losartan with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. 7.5 The Use of Hydrochlorothiazide with Other Drugs When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]: Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) — dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required.

=== OXYCODONE AND ACETAMINOPHEN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets is indicated for the relief of moderate to moderately severe pain. INDICATIONS AND USAGE ENDOCET is indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use : Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration [see WARNINGS ] , reserve ENDOCET for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics): Have not been tolerated or are not expected to be tolerated, Have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia ENDOCET should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets is indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration [see WARNINGS ], reserve oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics) Have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated, Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets are indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration [see Warnings] , reserve Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics): Have not been tolerated or are not expected to be tolerated, Have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, USP are indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, with opioids, even at recommended doses [see WARNINGS ], reserve oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options [e.g., non-opioid analgesics] Have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration [see WARNINGS ], reserve oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options [e.g., non-opioid analgesics] Have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, is indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration [see WARNINGS ], reserve Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options [e.g., non-opioid analgesics] • Have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated. • Have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia. Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be adjusted according to the severity of the pain and the response of the patient. It may occasionally be necessary to exceed the usual dosage recommended below in cases of more severe pain or in those patients who have become tolerant to the analgesic effect of opioids. If pain is constant, the opioid analgesic should be given at regular intervals on an around-the-clock schedule. Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets are given orally. Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, USP, 5 mg/325 mg; Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, USP, 7.5 mg/325 mg; Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, USP, 10 mg/325 mg The usual adult dosage is one tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain. The total daily dose of acetaminophen should not exceed 4 grams. Strength Maximal Daily Dose Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, USP, 5 mg/325 mg 12 Tablets Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, USP, 7.5 mg/325 mg 8 Tablets Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, USP, 10 mg/325 mg 6 Tablets Cessation of Therapy In patients treated with Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets for more than a few weeks who no longer require therapy, doses should be tapered gradually to prevent signs and symptoms of withdrawal in the physically dependent patient. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Dosage and Administration Instructions ENDOCET should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see WARNINGS ] . Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of ENDOCET for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. Clinical guidelines on opioid prescribing for some acute pain conditions are available. There is variability in the opioid analgesic dose and duration needed to adequately manage pain due both to the cause of pain and to individual patient factors. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see WARNINGS ] . Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with ENDOCET. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see WARNINGS ] . Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with ENDOCET [see WARNINGS , Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/ Caregivers ] . Inform patients and caregivers about the various ways to obtain naloxone as permitted by individual state naloxone dispensing and prescribing regulations (e.g., by prescription, directly from a pharmacist, or as part of a community-based program). Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [see WARNINGS , Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse , Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression , Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ] . Consider prescribing naloxone when the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose. Initial Dosage Use of ENDOCET as the First Opioid Analgesic Initiate treatment with ENDOCET using ENDOCET 2.5 mg/325 mg tablets in a dosing range of 1 to 2 tablets every 6 hours as needed for pain, at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of ENDOCET. The usual adult dosage is one tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain. Strength Usual Adult Dosage Maximal Daily Dose ENDOCET 2.5 mg/325 mg 1 or 2 tablets every 6 hours as needed for pain 12 Tablets ENDOCET 5 mg/325 mg 1 tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain 12 Tablets ENDOCET 7.5 mg/325 mg 1 tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain 8 Tablets ENDOCET 10 mg/325 mg 1 tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain 6 Tablets Conversion from Oxycodone Hydrochloride and Acetaminophen to Extended-Release Oxycodone The relative bioavailability of Oxycodone Hydrochloride and Acetaminophen Tablets or Oral Solution compared to extended-release oxycodone is unknown, so conversion to extended-release oxycodone may lead to increased risk of excessive sedation and respiratory depression. Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate ENDOCET to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving ENDOCET to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as reassessing for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see WARNINGS ] . Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration. If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the ENDOCET dosage. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see WARNINGS ] . Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions. Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Oxycodone Hydrochloride and Acetaminophen Tablets and Oral Solution Do not abruptly discontinue ENDOCET in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. Rapid discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. Patients may also attempt to treat their pain or withdrawal symptoms with illicit opioids, such as heroin, and other substances. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking ENDOCET, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including ENDOCET) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. It is important to ensure ongoing care of the patient and to agree on an appropriate tapering schedule and follow-up plan so that patient and provider goals and expectations are clear and realistic. When opioid analgesics are being discontinued due to a suspected substance use disorder, evaluate and treat the patient, or refer for evaluation and treatment of the substance use disorder. Treatment should include evidence-based approaches, such as medication assisted treatment of opioid use disorder. Complex patients with co-morbid pain and substance use disorders may benefit from referral to a specialist. There are no standard opioid tapering schedules that are suitable for all patients. Good clinical practice dictates a patient-specific plan to taper the dose of the opioid gradually. For patients on ENDOCET who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. Patients who have been taking opioids for briefer periods of time may tolerate a more rapid taper. It may be necessary to provide the patient with lower dosage strengths to accomplish a successful taper. Reassess the patient frequently to manage pain and withdrawal symptoms, should they emerge. Common withdrawal symptoms include restlessness, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, yawning, perspiration, chills, myalgia, and mydriasis. Other signs and symptoms also may develop, including irritability, anxiety, backache, joint pain, weakness, abdominal cramps, insomnia, nausea, anorexia, vomiting, diarrhea, or increased blood pressure, respiratory rate, or heart rate. If withdrawal symptoms arise, it may be necessary to pause the taper for a period of time or raise the dose of the opioid analgesic to the previous dose, and then proceed with a slower taper. In addition, evaluate patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for an extended period of time, and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see WARNINGS ; Withdrawal , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ] . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see WARNINGS ]. Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction,abuse, and misuse [see WARNINGS ]. Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see WARNINGS ]. Initial Dosage Use of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets as the First Opioid Analgesic Initiate treatment with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets using oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets 2.5 mg/325 mg tablets in a dosing range of 1 to 2 tablets every 6 hours as needed for pain, at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets. Strength Usual Adult Dosage Maximal Daily Dose Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets 5 mg/325 mg 1 tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain 12 Tablets Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets 7.5 mg/325 mg 1 tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain 8 Tablets Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets 10 mg/325 mg 1 tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain 6 Tablets Conversion from Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets to Extended-Release Oxycodone The relative bioavailability of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets compared to extended-release oxycodone is unknown, so conversion to extended-release oxycodone may lead to increased risk of excessive sedation and respiratory depression. Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reaction as well as reassessing for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see WARNINGS ]. If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets dosage. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see WARNINGS ]. Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets Do not abruptly discontinue oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. For patients on oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for an extended period of time and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see WARNINGS; Withdrawal , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings]. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings]. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see Warnings]. Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets [see Warnings, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression; Precautions, Information for Patients/Caregivers]. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [see Warnings, Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression, Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants]. Conversion from Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets to Extended-Release Oxycodone The relative bioavailability of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets compared to extended-release oxycodone is unknown, so conversion to extended release oxycodone may lead to increased risk of excessive sedation and respiratory depression. Continually reevaluate patients receiving Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings]. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see Warnings]. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings/Withdrawal, Drug Abuse and Dependence]. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see WARNINGS ]. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see WARNINGS ]. Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24 to 72 hours of initiating therapy and following dosage increases with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets and adjust the dosage accordingly [see WARNINGS ]. Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets [see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient's risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [see WARNINGS, Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse , Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression , Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ] . Initial Dosage Initiating Treatment with Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets The usual adult dosage is one tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain. Strength Usual Adult Dosage Maximal Daily Dose Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets 5 mg/325 mg 1 tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain 12 Tablets Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets 7.5 mg/325 mg 1 tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain 8 Tablets Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets 10 mg/325 mg 1 tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain 6 Tablets Conversion from Oxycodone and Acetaminophen to Extended-Release Oxycodone The relative bioavailability of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets compared to extended-release oxycodone is unknown, so conversion to extended-release oxycodone must be accompanied by close observation for signs of excessive sedation and respiratory depression. Continually reevaluate patients receiving oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions, as well as monitoring for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see WARNINGS ]. If unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed, consider reducing the dosage. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the dose of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. In addition, monitor patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for a long duration and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see WARNINGS/Withdrawal , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ] . Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient's response to their initial dose of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets. Strength Usual Adult Dosage Maximal Daily Dose Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets 5 mg/325 mg 1 tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain 12 Tablets Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets 7.5 mg/325 mg 1 tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain 8 Tablets Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets 10 mg/325 mg 1 tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain 6 Tablets Conversion from Oxycodone and Acetaminophen to Extended-Release Oxycodone The relative bioavailability of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets compared to extended-release oxycodone is unknown, so conversion to extended-release oxycodone may lead to increased risk of excessive sedation and respiratory depression. Continually reevaluate patients receiving oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as reassessing for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see WARNINGS ]. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [ see WARNINGS ]. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see WARNINGS, Withdrawal ; DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ] . Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see WARNINGS ]. Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets (see WARNINGS,Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ). The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient (see WARNINGS, Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression, Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ). The total daily dose of acetaminophen should not exceed 4grams. Strength Usual Adult Dosage Maximal Daily Dose Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets 5 mg/325 mg 1 tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain 12 Tablets Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets 7.5 mg/325 mg 1 tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain 8 Tablets Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets 10 mg/325 mg 1 tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain 6 Tablets Conversion from Oxycodone Hydrochloride and Acetaminophen to Extended-Release Oxycodone The relative bioavailability of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets compared to extended-release oxycodone is unknown, so conversion to extended-release oxycodone may lead to increased risk of excessive sedation and respiratory depression. For patients on Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see WARNINGS / Withdrawal , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient (see WARNINGS, Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression , Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ). A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see WARNINGS/ Withdrawal , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ].
Warnings: WARNINGS Misuse, Abuse and Diversion of Opioids Oxycodone is an opioid agonist of the morphine-type. Such drugs are sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders and are subject to criminal diversion. Oxycodone can be abused in a manner similar to other opioid agonists, legal or illicit. This should be considered when prescribing or dispensing Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets in situations where the physician or pharmacist is concerned about an increased risk of misuse, abuse, or diversion. Concerns about misuse, addiction, and diversion should not prevent the proper management of pain. Healthcare professionals should contact their State Professional Licensing Board or State Controlled Substances Authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product. Administration of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets should be closely monitored for the following potentially serious adverse reactions and complications: Respiratory Depression Respiratory depression is a hazard with the use of oxycodone, one of the active ingredients in Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, as with all opioid agonists. Elderly and debilitated patients are at particular risk for respiratory depression as are non-tolerant patients given large initial doses of oxycodone or when oxycodone is given in conjunction with other agents that depress respiration. Oxycodone should be used with extreme caution in patients with acute asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD), cor pulmonale, or preexisting respiratory impairment. In such patients, even usual therapeutic doses of oxycodone may decrease respiratory drive to the point of apnea. In these patients alternative non-opioid analgesics should be considered, and opioids should be employed only under careful medical supervision at the lowest effective dose. In case of respiratory depression, a reversal agent such as naloxone hydrochloride may be utilized (see OVERDOSAGE ). Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure The respiratory depressant effects of opioids include carbon dioxide retention and secondary elevation of cerebrospinal fluid pressure, and may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury, other intracranial lesions or a pre-existing increase in intracranial pressure. Oxycodone produces effects on pupillary response and consciousness which may obscure neurologic signs of worsening in patients with head injuries. Hypotensive Effect Oxycodone may cause severe hypotension particularly in individuals whose ability to maintain blood pressure has been compromised by a depleted blood volume, or after concurrent administration with drugs which compromise vasomotor tone such as phenothiazines. Oxycodone, like all opioid analgesics of the morphine-type, should be administered with caution to patients in circulatory shock, since vasodilation produced by the drug may further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. Oxycodone may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients. Hepatoxicity Acetaminophen has been associated with cases of acute liver failure, at times resulting in liver transplant and death. Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses that exceed 4000 milligrams per day, and often involve more than one acetaminophen containing product. The excessive intake of acetaminophen may be intentional to cause self-harm or unintentional as patients attempt to obtain more pain relief or unknowingly take other acetaminophen-containing products. The risk of acute liver failure is higher in individuals with underlying liver disease and in individuals who ingest alcohol while taking acetaminophen. Instruct patients to look for acetaminophen or APAP on package labels and not to use more than one product that contains acetaminophen. Instruct patients to seek medical attention immediately upon ingestion of more than 4000 milligrams of acetaminophen per day, even if they feel well. Serious Skin Reactions Rarely, acetaminophen may cause serious skin reactions such as acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Patients should be informed about the signs of serious skin reactions, and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Hypersensitivity / Anaphylaxis There have been post-marketing reports of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis associated with use of acetaminophen. Clinical signs including swelling of the face, mouth, and throat, respiratory distress, urticaria, rash, pruritus, and vomiting. There were infrequent reports of life-threatening anaphylaxis requiring emergency medical attention. Instruct patients to discontinue Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms. Do not prescribe Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets for patients with acetaminophen allergy. WARNINGS Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse ENDOCET contains oxycodone, a Schedule II controlled substance. As an opioid, ENDOCET exposes users to the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ] . Although the risk of addiction in any individual is unknown, it can occur in patients appropriately prescribed ENDOCET. Addiction can occur at recommended dosages and if the drug is misused or abused. Assess each patient’s risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse prior to prescribing ENDOCET, and reassess all patients receiving ENDOCET for the development of these behaviors and conditions. Risks are increased in patients with a personal or family history of substance abuse (including drug or alcohol abuse or addiction) or mental illness (e.g., major depression). The potential for these risks should not, however, prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient. Patients at increased risk may be prescribed opioids such as ENDOCET, but use in such patients necessitates intensive counseling about the risks and proper use of ENDOCET along with frequent reevaluation for signs of addiction, abuse, and misuse. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS ; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ; Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ] . Opioids are sought for nonmedical use and are subject to diversion from legitimate prescribed use. Consider these risks when prescribing or dispensing ENDOCET. Strategies to reduce these risks include prescribing the drug in the smallest appropriate quantity and advising the patient on careful storage of the drug during the course of treatment and proper disposal of unused drug [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers ] . Contact local state professional licensing board or state-controlled substances authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product. Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression has been reported with the use of opioids, even when used as recommended. Respiratory depression, if not immediately recognized and treated, may lead to respiratory arrest and death. Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid antagonists, depending on the patient’s clinical status [see OVERDOSAGE ] . Carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) retention from opioid-induced respiratory depression can exacerbate the sedating effects of opioids. While serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression can occur at any time during the use of ENDOCET, the risk is greatest during the initiation of therapy or following a dosage increase. To reduce the risk of respiratory depression, proper dosing and titration of ENDOCET are essential [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ] . Overestimating the ENDOCET dosage when converting patients from another opioid product can result in a fatal overdose with the first dose. Accidental ingestion of even one dose of ENDOCET, especially by children, can result in respiratory depression and death due to an overdose of oxycodone. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help right away in the event of a known or suspected overdose [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers ] . Opioids can cause sleep-related breathing disorders including central sleep apnea (CSA) and sleep-related hypoxemia. Opioid use increases the risk of CSA in a dose-dependent fashion. In patients who present with CSA, consider decreasing the opioid dosage using best practices for opioid taper [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ] . Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with ENDOCET. Inform patients and caregivers about the various ways to obtain naloxone as permitted by individual state naloxone dispensing and prescribing requirements or guidelines (e.g., by prescription, directly from a pharmacist, or as part of a community-based program). Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help, even if naloxone is administered [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers ] . Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient. Also consider prescribing naloxone if the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose. If naloxone is prescribed, educate patients and caregivers on how to treat with naloxone [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ; WARNINGS ; Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse , Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ; PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers , OVERDOSAGE ] . Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of ENDOCET with benzodiazepines and/or other CNS depressants, including alcohol (e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids). Because of these risks, reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Observational studies have demonstrated that concomitant use of opioid analgesics and benzodiazepines increases the risk of drug-related mortality compared to use of opioid analgesics alone. Because of similar pharmacological properties, it is reasonable to expect similar risk with the concomitant use of other CNS depressant drugs with opioid analgesics [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ] . If the decision is made to prescribe a benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant concomitantly with an opioid analgesic, prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use. In patients already receiving an opioid analgesic, prescribe a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant than indicated in the absence of an opioid, and titrate based on clinical response. If an opioid analgesic is initiated in a patient already taking a benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant, prescribe a lower initial dose of the opioid analgesic, and titrate based on clinical response. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction, educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS ; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ; Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ] . Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when ENDOCET is used with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants (including alcohol and illicit drugs). Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use of the benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant have been determined. Screen patients for risk of substance use disorders, including opioid abuse and misuse, and warn them of the risk for overdose and death associated with the use of additional CNS depressants including alcohol and illicit drugs. Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Use of ENDOCET for an extended period of time during pregnancy can result in withdrawal in the neonate. Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, unlike opioid withdrawal syndrome in adults, may be life-threatening if not recognized and treated, and requires management according to protocols developed by neonatology experts. Observe newborns for signs of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and manage accordingly. Advise pregnant women using opioids for an extended period of time of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients /Caregivers , Pregnancy ] . Opioid Analgesic Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) To ensure that the benefits of opioid analgesics outweigh the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has required a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) for these products. Under the requirements of the REMS, drug companies with approved opioid analgesic products must make REMS-compliant education programs available to healthcare providers. Healthcare providers are strongly encouraged to do all of the following: Complete a REMS-compliant education program offered by an accredited provider of continuing education (CE) or another education program that includes all the elements of the FDA Education Blueprint for Health Care Providers Involved in the Management or Support of Patients with Pain. Discuss the safe use, serious risks, and proper storage and disposal of opioid analgesics with patients and/or their caregivers every time these medicines are prescribed. The Patient Counseling Guide (PCG) can be obtained at this link: www.fda.gov/OpioidAnalgesicREMSPCG . Emphasize to patients and their caregivers the importance of reading the Medication Guide that they will receive from their pharmacist every time an opioid analgesic is dispensed to them. Consider using other tools to improve patient, household, and community safety, such as patient-prescriber agreements that reinforce patient-prescriber responsibilities. To obtain further information on the opioid analgesic REMS and for a list of accredited REMS CME/CE, call 800-503-0784, or log on to www.opioidanalgesicrems.com . The FDA Blueprint can be found at www.fda.gov/OpioidAnalgesicREMSBlueprint . Risks of Concomitant Use or Discontinuation of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Concomitant use of ENDOCET with a CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may increase plasma concentrations of oxycodone hydrochloride and prolong opioid adverse reactions, which may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ] , particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of ENDOCET is achieved . Similarly, discontinuation of a CYP3A4 inducer, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, in ENDOCET-treated patients may increase oxycodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions. When using ENDOCET with CYP3A4 inhibitors or discontinuing CYP3A4 inducers in ENDOCET-treated patients, evaluate patients at frequent intervals and consider dosage reduction of ENDOCET until stable drug effects are achieved [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ] . Concomitant use of ENDOCET with CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuation of an CYP3A4 inhibitor could decrease oxycodone hydrochloride plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy or, possibly, lead to a withdrawal syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone hydrochloride. When using ENDOCET with CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider increasing the opioid dosage if needed to maintain adequate analgesia or if symptoms of opioid withdrawal occur [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ] . Hepatotoxicity Acetaminophen has been associated with cases of acute liver failure, at times resulting in liver transplant and death. Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses that exceed 4000 milligrams per day, and often involve more than one acetaminophen-containing product. Opioid-Induced Hyperalgesia and Allodynia Opioid-Induced Hyperalgesia (OIH) occurs when an opioid analgesic paradoxically causes an increase in pain, or an increase in sensitivity to pain. This condition differs from tolerance, which is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ; Dependence ] . Symptoms of OIH include (but may not be limited to) increased levels of pain upon opioid dosage increase, decreased levels of pain upon opioid dosage decrease, or pain from ordinarily non-painful stimuli (allodynia). These symptoms may suggest OIH only if there is no evidence of underlying disease progression, opioid tolerance, opioid withdrawal, or addictive behavior. Cases of OIH have been reported, both with short-term and longer-term use of opioid analgesics. Though the mechanism of OIH is not fully understood, multiple biochemical pathways have been implicated. Medical literature suggests a strong biologic plausibility between opioid analgesics and OIH and allodynia. If a patient is suspected to be experiencing OIH, carefully consider appropriately decreasing the dose of the current opioid analgesic or opioid rotation (safely switching the patient to a different opioid moiety) [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , WARNINGS ] . Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression in Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease or in Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients The use of ENDOCET in patients with acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment is contraindicated. Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease : ENDOCET-treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea, even at recommended dosages of ENDOCET [see WARNINGS; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ] . Elderly, Cachetic, or Debilitated Patients : Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients because they may have altered pharmacokinetics or altered clearance compared to younger, healthier patients [see WARNINGS; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ] . Regularly evaluate patients, particularly when initiating and titrating ENDOCET and when ENDOCET is given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration [see WARNINGS; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ] . Alternatively, consider the use of non-opioid analgesics in these patients. Adrenal Insufficiency Cases of adrenal insufficiency have been reported with opioid use, more often following greater than one month of use. Presentation of adrenal insufficiency may include non-specific symptoms and signs including nausea, vomiting, anorexia, fatigue, weakness, dizziness, and low blood pressure. If adrenal insufficiency is suspected, confirm the diagnosis with diagnostic testing as soon as possible. If adrenal insufficiency is diagnosed, treat with physiologic replacement doses of corticosteroids. Wean the patient off of the opioid to allow adrenal function to recover and continue corticosteroid treatment until adrenal function recovers. Other opioids may be tried as some cases reported use of a different opioid without recurrence of adrenal insufficiency. The information available does not identify any particular opioids as being more likely to be associated with adrenal insufficiency. Severe Hypotension ENDOCET may cause severe hypotension including orthostatic hypotension and syncope in ambulatory patients. There is increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs (e.g., phenothiazines or general anesthetics) [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ] . Regularly evaluate these patients for signs of hypotension after initiating or titrating the dosage of ENDOCET. In patients with circulatory shock ENDOCET may cause vasodilatation that can further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. Avoid the use of ENDOCET with circulatory shock. Hypersensitivity/Anaphylaxis There have been post-marketing reports of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis associated with use of acetaminophen. Clinical signs included swelling of the face, mouth, and throat, respiratory distress, urticaria, rash, pruritus, and vomiting. Instruct patients to discontinue ENDOCET immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms. Do not prescribe ENDOCET for patients with acetaminophen allergy [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients /Caregivers ] . Risks of Use in Patients with Increased Intracranial Pressure, Brain Tumors, Head Injury, or Impaired Consciousness In patients who may be susceptible to the intracranial effects of CO 2 retention (e.g., those with evidence of increased intracranial pressure or brain tumors), ENDOCET may reduce respiratory drive, and the resultant CO 2 retention can further increase intracranial pressure. Monitor such patients for signs of sedation and respiratory depression, particularly when initiating therapy with ENDOCET. Opioids may also obscure the clinical course in a patient with a head injury. Avoid the use of ENDOCET in patients with impaired consciousness or coma. Risks of Use in Patients with Gastrointestinal Conditions ENDOCET are contraindicated in patients with known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. The administration of ENDOCET, or other opioids may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions. The oxycodone in ENDOCET may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi. Opioids may cause increases in serum amylase. Regularly evaluate patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis, for worsening symptoms. Increased Risk of Seizures in Patients with Seizure Disorders The oxycodone in ENDOCET may increase the frequency of seizures in patients with seizure disorders, and may increase the risk of seizures occurring in other clinical settings associated with seizures. Regularly evaluate patients with a history of seizure disorders for worsened seizure control during ENDOCET therapy. Withdrawal Do not abruptly discontinue ENDOCET in a patient physically dependent on opioids. When discontinuing ENDOCET in a physically dependent patient, gradually taper the dosage. Rapid tapering of ENDOCET in a patient physically dependent on opioids may lead to a withdrawal syndrome and return of pain [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ] . Additionally, avoid the use of mixed agonist/antagonist (e.g., pentazocine, nalbuphine, and butorphanol) or partial agonist (e.g., buprenorphine) analgesics in patients who are receiving a full opioid agonist analgesic, including ENDOCET. In these patients, mixed agonist/antagonist and partial agonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ] . Risks of Driving and Operating Machinery ENDOCET may impair the mental or physical abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving a car or operating machinery. Warn patients not to drive or operate dangerous machinery unless they are tolerant to the effects of ENDOCET and know how they will react to the medication [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients /Caregivers ] . WARNINGS Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets contain oxycodone, a Schedule II controlled substance. As an opioid, oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets exposes users to the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. Although the risk of addiction in any individual is unknown, it can occur in patients appropriately prescribed oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets. Assess each patient’s risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse prior to prescribing oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets, and reassess all patients receiving oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets for the development of these behaviors and conditions. Patients at increased risk may be prescribed opioids such as oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets, but use in such patients necessitates intensive counseling about the risks and proper use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets along with frequent reevaluation for signs of addiction, abuse, and misuse. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION; Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ]. Consider these risks when prescribing or dispensing oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets. Strategies to reduce these risks include prescribing the drug in the smallest appropriate quantity and advising the patient on careful storage of the drug during the course of treatment and proper disposal of unused drug. Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid antagonists, depending on the patient’s clinical status [see OVERDOSAGE ]. While serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression can occur at any time during the use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets, the risk is greatest during the initiation of therapy or following a dosage increase of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets. To reduce the risk of respiratory depression, proper dosing and titration of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are essential [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ]. Overestimating the oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets dosage when converting patients from another opioid product can result in a fatal overdose with the first dose. Accidental ingestion of even one dose of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets, especially by children, can result in respiratory depression and death due to an overdose of oxycodone and acetaminophen. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help right away in the event of a known or suspected overdose [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients and/or Caregivers ]. In patients who present with CSA, consider decreasing the opioid dosage using best practices for opioid taper [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ]. Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help, even if naloxone is administered [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients and/or Caregivers ] . Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of other CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. If naloxone is prescribed, educate patients and caregivers on how to treat with naloxone [see WARNINGS; Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse , Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants , PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients and/or Caregivers , OVERDOSAGE ]. Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of oxycodone hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets with benzodiazepines and/or other CNS depressants, including alcohol (e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids). Because of similar pharmacological properties, it is reasonable to expect similar risk with the concomitant use of other CNS depressant drugs with opioid analgesics [see PRECAUTIONS; DRUG INTERACTIONS ]. If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION; Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ]. Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are used with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants (including alcohol and illicit drugs). Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets for an extended period of time during pregnancy can result in withdrawal in the neonate. Advise pregnant women using opioids for an extended period of time of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers, Pregnancy ]. Risks of Concomitant Use or Discontinuation of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Concomitant use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets with a CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may increase plasma concentrations of oxycodone hydrochloride and prolong opioid adverse reactions, which may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ], particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets is achieved. Similarly, discontinuation of a CYP3A4 inducer, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, in oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets-treated patients may increase oxycodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions. When using oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets with CYP3A4 inhibitors or discontinuing CYP3A4 inducers in oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets-treated patients, evaluate patients at frequent intervals and consider dosage reduction of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets until stable drug effects are achieved [see PRECAUTIONS; DRUG INTERACTIONS ]. Concomitant use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets with CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuation of an CYP3A4 inhibitor could decrease oxycodone hydrochloride plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy or, possibly, lead to a withdrawal syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone hydrochloride. When using oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets with CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider increasing the opioid dosage if needed to maintain adequate analgesia or if symptoms of opioid withdrawal occur [see PRECAUTIONS; DRUG INTERACTIONS ]. This condition differs from tolerance, which is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect [see DEPENDENCE ]. If a patient is suspected to be experiencing OIH, carefully consider appropriately decreasing the dose of the current opioid analgesic, or opioid rotation (safely switching the patient to a different opioid moiety) [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , WARNINGS ]. Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression in Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease or in Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients The use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets in patients with acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment is contraindicated. Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease: Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets-treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea, even at recommended dosages of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets [see WARNINGS; Life Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. Elderly, Cachetic, or Debilitated Patients: Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients because they may have altered pharmacokinetics or altered clearance compared to younger, healthier patients [see WARNINGS; Life Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. Regularly evaluate patients, particularly when initiating and titrating oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets and when oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration [see WARNINGS; Life Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. Severe Hypotension Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets may cause severe hypotension including orthostatic hypotension and syncope in ambulatory patients. There is increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs (e.g., phenothiazines or general anesthetics) [see PRECAUTIONS; DRUG INTERACTIONS ]. Regularly evaluate these patients for signs of hypotension after initiating or titrating the dosage of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets. In patients with circulatory shock oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets may cause vasodilation that can further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. Avoid the use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets with circulatory shock. Do not prescribe oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets for patients with acetaminophen allergy [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. Risks of Use in Patients with Increased Intracranial Pressure, Brain Tumors, Head Injury, or Impaired Consciousness In patients who may be susceptible to the intracranial effects of CO 2 retention (e.g., those with evidence of increased intracranial pressure or brain tumors), oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets may reduce respiratory drive, and the resultant CO 2 retention can further increase intracranial pressure. Monitor such patients for signs of sedation and respiratory depression, particularly when initiating therapy with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets. Avoid the use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets in patients with impaired consciousness or coma. Risks of Use in Patients with Gastrointestinal Conditions Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are contraindicated in patients with known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. The administration of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets, or other opioids may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions. The oxycodone in oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi. Increased Risk of Seizures in Patients with Seizure Disorders The oxycodone in oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets may increase the frequency of seizures in patients with seizure disorders, and may increase the risk of seizures occurring in other clinical settings associated with seizures. Regularly evaluate patients with a history of seizure disorders for worsened seizure control during oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets therapy. Withdrawal Do not abruptly discontinue oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids. When discontinuing oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets in a physically dependent patient, gradually taper the dosage. Rapid tapering of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids may lead to a withdrawal syndrome and return of pain [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. Additionally, avoid the use of mixed agonist/antagonist (e.g, pentazocine, nalbuphine, and butorphanol) or partial agonist (e.g., buprenorphine) analgesics in patients who are receiving a full opioid agonist analgesic, including oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets. In these patients, mixed agonist/antagonist and partial agonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms [see PRECAUTIONS; DRUG INTERACTIONS ]. Risks of Driving and Operating Machinery Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets may impair the mental or physical abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving a car or operating machinery. Warn patients not to drive or operate dangerous machinery unless they are tolerant to the effects of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets and know how they will react to the medication [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. As an opioid, Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets exposes users to the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Drug Abuse and Dependence]. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Warnings, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression; Dosage and Administration, Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose]. Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid antagonists, depending on the patient’s clinical status [see Overdosage]. While serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression can occur at any time during the use of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, the risk is greatest during the initiation of therapy or following a dosage increase. To reduce the risk of respiratory depression, proper dosing and titration of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets are essential [see Dosage and Administration]. Accidental ingestion of even one dose of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, especially by children, can result in respiratory depression and death due to an overdose of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help right away in the event of a known or suspected overdose [see Precautions, Information for Patients/Caregivers]. In patients who present with CSA, consider decreasing the opioid dosage using best practices for opioid taper [see Dosage and Administration]. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help, even if naloxone is administered [see Precautions, Information for Patients/Caregivers]. If naloxone is prescribed, educate patients and caregivers on how to treat with naloxone [see Warnings, Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse, Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants; Precautions, Information for Patients/Caregivers; Overdosage]. Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of Oxycodone And Acetaminophen Tablets with benzodiazepines and/or other CNS depressants, including alcohol (e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids). Because of similar pharmacological properties, it is reasonable to expect similar risk with the concomitant use of other CNS depressant drugs with opioid analgesics [see Precautions; Drug Interactions]. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction and educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Warnings, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression; Dosage and Administration, Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose]. Advise pregnant women using opioids for an extended period of time of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [see Precautions; Information for Patients/Caregivers, Pregnancy]. To obtain further information on the opioid analgesic REMS and for a list of accredited REMS CME/CE, call 800-503-0784, or log on to www.opioidanalgesicrems.com. The FDA Blueprint can be found at www.fda.gov/OpioidAnalgesicREMSBlueprint. Risks of Concomitant Use or Discontinuation of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Concomitant use of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets with a CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may increase plasma concentrations of oxycodone hydrochloride and prolong opioid adverse reactions, which may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see Warnings] , particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets are achieved. When using Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets with CYP3A4 inhibitors or discontinuing CYP3A4 inducers in Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets-treated patients, evaluate patients at frequent intervals and consider dosage reduction of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets until stable drug effects are achieved [see Precautions; Drug Interactions]. When using Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets with CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider increasing the opioid dosage if needed to maintain adequate analgesia or if symptoms of opioid withdrawal occur [see Precautions; Drug Interactions]. This condition differs from tolerance, which is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect [see Dependence] . If a patient is suspected to be experiencing OIH, carefully consider appropriately decreasing the dose of the current opioid analgesic or opioid rotation (safely switching the patient to a different opioid moiety) [see Dosage and Administration; Warnings]. Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease: Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets-treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea, even at recommended dosages of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets [see Warnings; Life Threatening Respiratory Depression]. Elderly, Cachetic, or Debilitated Patients: Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients because they may have altered pharmacokinetics or altered clearance compared to younger, healthier patients [see Warnings; Life Threatening Respiratory Depression]. Regularly evaluate patients, particularly when initiating and titrating Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets and when Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets are given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration [see Warnings]. There is increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs (e.g., phenothiazines or general anesthetics) [see Precautions; Drug Interactions]. In patients with circulatory shock Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets may cause vasodilatation that can further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. Patients should be informed about the signs of serious skin reactions, and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity/Anaphylaxis There have been post-marketing reports of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis associated with use of acetaminophen. Do not prescribe Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets for patients with acetaminophen allergy [see Precautions; Information for Patients/Caregivers]. Risks of Use in Patients with Increased Intracranial Pressure, Brain Tumors, Head Injury, or Impaired Consciousness In patients who may be susceptible to the intracranial effects of CO2 retention (e.g., those with evidence of increased intracranial pressure or brain tumors), Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets may reduce respiratory drive, and the resultant CO2 retention can further increase intracranial pressure. Rapid tapering of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids may lead to a withdrawal syndrome and return of pain [see Dosage and Administration, Drug Abuse and Dependence]. Additionally, avoid the use of mixed agonist/antagonist (e.g., pentazocine, nalbuphine, and butorphanol) or partial agonist (e.g., buprenorphine) analgesics in patients who are receiving a full opioid agonist analgesic, including Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets. In these patients, mixed agonist/antagonist and partial agonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms [see Precautions; Drug Interactions]. Warn patients not to drive or operate dangerous machinery unless they are tolerant to the effects of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets and know how they will react to the medication [see Precautions; Information for Patients/Caregivers]. As an opioid, oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets expose users to the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. Assess each patient's risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse prior to prescribing oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets, and monitor all patients receiving oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets for the development of these behaviors and conditions. Patients at increased risk may be prescribed opioids such as oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets, but use in such patients necessitates intensive counseling about the risks and proper use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets along with intensive monitoring for signs of addiction, abuse, and misuse. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Patient Access to Naloxone for The Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ] . Opioids are sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders and are subject to criminal diversion. Strategies to reduce these risks include prescribing the drug in the smallest appropriate quantity and advising the patient on the proper disposal of unused drug [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. Contact local state professional licensing board or state controlled substances authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product. To obtain further information on the opioid analgesic REMS and for a list of accredited REMS CME/CE, call 1-800-503-0784, or log on to www.opioidanalgesicrems.com . Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid antagonists, depending on the patient's clinical status [see OVERDOSAGE ]. Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24 to 72 hours of initiating therapy with and following dosage increases of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets. Accidental ingestion of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets, especially by children, can result in respiratory depression and death due to an overdose of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help right away in the event of a known or suspected overdose [ see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help, even if naloxone is administered [see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient's risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of other CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. If naloxone is prescribed, educate patients and caregivers on how to treat with naloxone [see WARNINGS, Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse , Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ; PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Prolonged use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets during pregnancy can result in withdrawal in the neonate. Advise pregnant women using opioids for a prolonged period of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers , Pregnancy ]. Risks of Concomitant Use or Discontinuation of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Concomitant use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets with a CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may increase plasma concentrations of oxycodone and prolong opioid adverse reactions, which may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ], particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets is achieved. When using oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets with CYP3A4 inhibitors or discontinuing CYP3A4 inducers in oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets-treated patients, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider dosage reduction of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets until stable drug effects are achieved [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ]. Concomitant use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets with CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuation of an CYP3A4 inhibitor could decrease oxycodone plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy or, possibly, lead to a withdrawal syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone. When using oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets with CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider increasing the opioid dosage if needed to maintain adequate analgesia or if symptoms of opioid withdrawal occur [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ] . Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants (e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, alcohol). Follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ] . Screen patients for risk of substance use disorders, including opioid abuse and misuse, and warn them of the risk for overdose and death associated with the use of additional CNS depressants including alcohol and illicit drugs . Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets-treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea, even at recommended dosages of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets [see WARNINGS; Life Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients because they may have altered pharmacokinetics or altered clearance compared to younger, healthier patients [see WARNINGS; Life Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. Monitor such patients closely, particularly when initiating and titrating oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets and when oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration [see WARNINGS; Life Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. Wean the patient off the opioid to allow adrenal function to recover and continue corticosteroid treatment until adrenal function recovers. Monitor these patients for signs of hypotension after initiating or titrating the dosage of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets. In patients with circulatory shock, oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets may cause vasodilatation that can further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses that exceed 4,000 milligrams per day, and often involve more than one acetaminophen-containing product. Instruct patients to seek medical attention immediately upon ingestion of more than 4,000 milligrams of acetaminophen per day, even if they feel well. Monitor patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis, for worsening symptoms. Monitor patients with a history of seizure disorders for worsened seizure control during oxycodone and acetaminophen tablet therapy. Rapid tapering of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids may lead to a withdrawal syndrome and return of pain [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ] . In these patients, mixed agonist/antagonist and partial agonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms [ see PRECAUTIONS/Drug Interactions ] . Assess each patient's risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse prior to prescribing oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets, and reassess all patients receiving oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets for the development of these behaviors and conditions. Strategies to reduce these risks include prescribing the drug in the smallest appropriate quantity and advising the patient on careful storage of the drug during the course of treatment and the proper disposal of unused drug. Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets with benzodiazepines and/or other CNS depressants, including alcohol (e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, alcohol). Because of similar pharmacological properties, it is reasonable to expect similar risk with the concomitant use of other CNS depressant drugs with opioid analgesics [see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ]. Advise pregnant women using opioids for an extended period of time of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers , Pregnancy ]. The Patient Counseling Guide (PCG) can be obtained at this link: www.fda.gov/OpioidAnalgesicREMSPCG. To obtain further information on the opioid analgesic REMS and for a list of accredited REMS CME/CE, call 1-800-503-0784, or log on to www.opioidanalgesicrems.com. When using oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets with CYP3A4 inhibitors or discontinuing CYP3A4 inducers in oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets-treated patients, evaluate patients at frequent intervals and consider dosage reduction of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets until stable drug effects are achieved [see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ]. When using oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets with CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors, evaluate patients at frequent intervals and consider increasing the opioid dosage if needed to maintain adequate analgesia or if symptoms of opioid withdrawal occur [see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ] . Opioid Induced Hyperalgesia and Allodynia Opioid-Induced Hyperalgesia (OIH) occurs when an opioid analgesic paradoxically causes an increase in pain, or an increase in sensitivity to pain. If a patient is suspected to be experiencing OIH, carefully consider appropriately decreasing the dose of the current opioid analgesic, or opioid rotation (safely switching the patient to a different opioid moiety) [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ; WARNINGS ]. Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets-treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea, even at recommended dosages of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets [see WARNINGS, Life Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients because they may have altered pharmacokinetics or altered clearance compared to younger, healthier patients [see WARNINGS, Life Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. Regularly evaluate patients, particularly when initiating and titrating oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets and when oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration [see WARNINGS ]. There is increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs (e.g., phenothiazines or general anesthetics) [see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ]. Do not prescribe oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets for patients with acetaminophen allergy [see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. Regularly evaluate patients with a history of seizure disorders for worsened seizure control during oxycodone and acetaminophen tablet therapy. Rapid tapering of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids may lead to a withdrawal syndrome and return of pain [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ; DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ] . In these patients, mixed agonist/antagonist and partial agonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms [see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ] . Warn patients not to drive or operate dangerous machinery unless they are tolerant to the effects of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets and know how they will react to the medication [see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. WARNINGS Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets contains oxycodone, a Schedule II controlled substance. Assess each patient’s risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse prior to prescribing Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, and reasses all patients receiving Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets for the development of these behaviors and conditions. Patients at increased risk may be prescribed opioids such as Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, but use in such patients necessitates intensive counseling about the risks and proper use of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets along with frequent reevalution for signs of addiction, abuse, and misuse. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; Dosage and Administration, Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ]. [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. Accidental ingestion of even one dose of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, especially by children, can result in respiratory depression and death due to an overdose of Oxycodone. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help right away in the event of a known or suspected overdose [see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help, even if naloxone is administered [see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ). If naloxone is prescribed, educate patients and caregivers on how to treat with naloxone [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ; WARNINGS, Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse, Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ; PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ). Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets with benzodiazepines and/ or other CNS depressants including alcohol (e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids). If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression; Dosage and Administration, Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ]. Advise pregnant women using opioids for an extended period of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers, Pregnancy ]. Healthcare providers are strongly encouraged to do all of the following: • Complete a REMS-compliant education program offered by an accredited provider of continuing education (CE) or another education program that includes all the elements of the FDA Education Blueprint for Health Care Providers Involved in the Management or Support of Patients with Pain. • Discuss the safe use, serious risks, and proper storage and disposal of opioid analgesics with patients and/or their caregivers every time these medicines are prescribed. • Emphasize to patients and their caregivers the importance of reading the Medication Guide that they will receive from their pharmacist every time an opioid analgesic is dispensed to them. • Consider using other tools to improve patient, household, and community safety, such as patient-prescriber agreements that reinforce patient-prescriber responsibilities. Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease: Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets-treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea, even at recommended dosages of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets [see WARNINGS; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. Elderly, Cachetic, or Debilitated Patients: Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients because they may have altered pharmacokinetics or altered clearance compared to younger, healthier patients [see WARNINGS; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. Monitor such patients for signs of sedation and respiratory depression, particularly when initiating therapy with Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets.Opioids may also obscure the clinical course in a patient with a head injury. In these patients, mixed agonist/antagonist and partial agonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms [see PRECAUTIONS/Drug Interactions ]. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression; Dosage and Administration, Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ]. If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; Dosage and Administration, Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ]. Advise pregnant women using opioids for an extended period of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [see PRECAUTIONS ; Information for Patients/Caregivers , Pregnancy ].
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets should not be administered to patients with known hypersensitivity to oxycodone, acetaminophen, or any other component of this product. Oxycodone is contraindicated in any situation where opioids are contraindicated including patients with significant respiratory depression (in unmonitored settings or the absence of resuscitative equipment) and patients with acute or severe bronchial asthma or hypercarbia. Oxycodone is contraindicated in the setting of suspected or known paralytic ileus. CONTRAINDICATIONS ENDOCET is contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see WARNINGS ] Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see WARNINGS ] Hypersensitivity to oxycodone, acetaminophen, or any other component of the product (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see WARNINGS , ADVERSE REACTIONS ] CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets is contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see WARNINGS ] Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see WARNINGS ] Hypersensitivity to oxycodone, acetaminophen, or any other component of the product (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see WARNINGS , ADVERSE REACTIONS ] CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings] Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [ see Warnings] Hypersensitivity to oxycodone, acetaminophen, or any other component of the product (e.g. anaphylaxis) [see Warnings, Adverse Reactions] CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see WARNINGS ] Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see WARNINGS ] Hypersensitivity to oxycodone, acetaminophen, or any other component of the product (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see WARNINGS , ADVERSE REACTIONS ] CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see WARNINGS ] Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see WARNINGS ] Hypersensitivity to oxycodone, acetaminophen, or any other component of the product (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see WARNINGS ; ADVERSE REACTIONS ] CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets is contraindicated in patients with: • Significant respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ] • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see WARNINGS ] • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see WARNINGS ] • Hypersensitivity to oxycodone, acetaminophen, or any other component of the product (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see WARNINGS , ADVERSE REACTIONS ]
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 The concomitant use of ENDOCET and CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), can increase the plasma concentration of oxycodone, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of ENDOCET and CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitors, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of ENDOCET is achieved [see WARNINGS ] . After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the oxycodone plasma concentration will decrease [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] , resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to ENDOCET. If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of ENDOCET until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate patients at frequent intervals for respiratory depression and sedation. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the ENDOCET dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate for signs of opioid withdrawal. Inducers of CYP3A4 The concomitant use of ENDOCET and CYP3A4 inducers, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, can decrease the plasma concentration of oxycodone [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to ENDOCET [see WARNINGS ] . After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the oxycodone plasma concentration will increase [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] , which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the ENDOCET dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider ENDOCET dosage reduction and evaluate patients at frequent intervals for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Benzodiazepines and Other CNS Depressants Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines and other CNS depressants such as benzodiazepines and other sedative hypnotics, anxiolytics, and tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, and other opioids, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction, educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS ] . Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), tryptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue), has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients /Caregivers ] . If concomitant use is warranted, frequently evaluate the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue ENDOCET if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The concomitant use of opioids and MAOIs, such as phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid, may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see WARNINGS ] . The use of ENDOCET is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. If urgent use of an opioid is necessary, use test doses and frequent titration of small doses to treat pain while closely monitoring blood pressure and signs and symptoms of CNS and respiratory depression. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics The concomitant use of opioids with other opioid analgesics, such as butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, may reduce the analgesic effect of ENDOCET and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Advise patient to avoid concomitant use of these drugs. Muscle Relaxants ENDOCET may enhance the neuromuscular-blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increase in the degree of respiratory depression. Because respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected, decrease the dosage of ENDOCET and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS ] . Diuretics Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Evaluate patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Anticholinergic Drugs The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Evaluate patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when ENDOCET is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Alcohol, ethyl Hepatotoxicity has occurred in chronic alcoholics following various dose levels (moderate to excessive) of acetaminophen. Oral Contraceptives Increase in glucuronidation resulting in increased plasma clearance and a decreased half-life of acetaminophen. Charcoal (activated) Reduces acetaminophen absorption when administered as soon as possible after overdose. Beta Blockers (Propranolol) Propranolol appears to inhibit the enzyme systems responsible for the glucuronidation and oxidation of acetaminophen. Therefore, the pharmacologic effects of acetaminophen may be increased. Loop Diuretics The effects of the loop diuretic may be decreased because acetaminophen may decrease renal prostaglandin excretion and decrease plasma renin activity. Lamotrigine Serum lamotrigine concentrations may be reduced, producing a decrease in therapeutic effects. Probenecid Probenecid may increase the therapeutic effectiveness of acetaminophen slightly. Zidovudine The pharmacologic effects of zidovudine may be decreased because of enhanced non-hepatic or renal clearance of zidovudine. DRUG INTERACTIONS Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 The concomitant use of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets and CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets and CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitors, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets are achieved [see Warnings]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the oxycodone plasma concentration will decrease [see Clinical Pharmacology] , resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets. If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets until stable drug effects are achieved. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Inducers of CYP3A4 The concomitant use of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets and CYP3A4 inducers, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, can decrease the plasma concentration of oxycodone [see Clinical Pharmacology] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets [see Warnings]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the oxycodone plasma concentration will increase [see Clinical Pharmacology] , which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate for sign of opioid withdrawal. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets dosage reduction and evaluate patients at frequent intervals for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines and other CNS depressants such as benzodiazepines and other sedative hypnotics, anxiolytics, and tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, and other opioids, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Warnings]. Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), tryptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue), has resulted in serotonin syndrome. [see Precautions; Information for Patients/Caregivers]. If concomitant use is warranted, frequently monitor the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets immediately if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The concomitant use of opioids and MAOIs, such as phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid, may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings]. The use of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets are not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics The concomitant use of opioids with other opioid analgesics, such as butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, may reduce the analgesic effect of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Muscle Relaxants Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Because respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Warnings]. Evaluate patients for signs for diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Evaluate patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets are used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Zidovudine The pharmacologic effects of zidovudine may be decreased because of enhanced non-hepatic or renal clearance of zidovudine Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Depending on the sensitivity/specificity and the test methodology, the individual components of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets may cross-react with assays used in the preliminary detection of cocaine (primary urinary metabolite, benzoylecgonine) or marijuana (cannabinoids) in human urine. A more specific alternate chemical method must be used in order to obtain a confirmed analytical result. The preferred confirmatory method is gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS). Moreover, clinical considerations and professional judgment should be applied to any drug-of-abuse test result, particularly when preliminary positive results are used. Acetaminophen may interfere with home blood glucose measurement systems; decreases of >20% in mean glucose values may be noted. This effect appears to be drug, concentration and system dependent. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Long-term studies to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of the combination of Oxycodone Hydrochloride and Acetaminophen have not been conducted. Long-term studies in mice and rats have been completed by the National Toxicology Program to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of acetaminophen. In 2-year feeding studies, F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice were fed a diet containing acetaminophen up to 6000 ppm. Female rats demonstrated equivocal evidence of carcinogenic activity based on increased incidences of mononuclear cell leukemia at 0.8 times the maximum human daily dose (MHDD) of 4 grams/day, based on a body surface area comparison. In contrast, there was no evidence of carcinogenic activity in male rats that received up to 0.7 times or mice at up to 1.2-1.4 times the MHDD, based on a body surface area comparison. Mutagenesis The combination of Oxycodone Hydrochloride and Acetaminophen has not been evaluated for mutagenicity. Oxycodone alone was negative in a bacterial reverse mutation assay (Ames), an in vitro chromosome aberration assay with human lymphocytes without metabolic activation and an in vivo mouse micronucleus assay. Oxycodone was clastogenic in the human lymphocyte chromosomal assay in the presence of metabolic activation and in the mouse lymphoma assay with or without metabolic activation. In the published literature, acetaminophen has been reported to be clastogenic when administered at 1500 mg/kg/day to the rat model (3.6-times the MHDD, based on a body surface area comparison). In contrast, no clastogenicity was noted at a dose of 750 mg/kg/day (1.8-times the MHDD, based on a body surface area comparison), suggesting a threshold effect. Impairment of Fertility In studies conducted by the National Toxicology Program, fertility assessments with acetaminophen have been completed in Swiss CD-1 mice via a continuous breeding study. There were no effects on fertility parameters in mice consuming up to 1.7 times the MHDD of acetaminophen, based on a body surface area comparison. Although there was no effect on sperm motility or sperm density in the epididymis, there was a significant increase in the percentage of abnormal sperm in mice consuming 1.78 times the MHDD (based on a body surface comparison) and there was a reduction in the number of mating pairs producing a fifth litter at this dose, suggesting the potential for cumulative toxicity with chronic administration of acetaminophen near the upper limit of daily dosing. Published studies in rodents report that oral acetaminophen treatment of male animals at doses that are 1.2 times the MHDD and greater (based on a body surface comparison) result in decreased testicular weights, reduced spermatogenesis, reduced fertility, and reduced implantation sites in females given the same doses. These effects appear to increase with the duration of treatment. The clinical significance of these findings is not known. Infertility Use of opioids for an extended period of time may cause reduced fertility in females and males of reproductive potential. It is not known whether these effects on fertility are reversible [see Adverse Reactions]. Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Animal reproductive studies have not been conducted with Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets. It is also not known whether Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity. Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets should not be given to a pregnant woman unless in the judgment of the physician, the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards. Nonteratogenic Effects Fetal/Neonatal Adverse Reactions Use of opioid analgesics for an extended period of time during pregnancy for medical or nonmedical purposes can result in physical dependence in the neonate and neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome shortly after birth. Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome presents as irritability, hyperactivity and abnormal sleep pattern, high pitched cry, tremor, vomiting, diarrhea and failure to gain weight. The onset, duration, and severity of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome vary based on the specific opioid used, duration of use, timing and amount of last maternal use, and rate of elimination of the drug by the newborn. Observe newborns for symptoms of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and manage accordingly [see Warnings]. Labor or Delivery Opioids cross the placenta and may produce respiratory depression and psycho-physiologic effects in neonates. An opioid antagonist, such as naloxone, must be available for reversal of opioid-induced respiratory depression in the neonate. Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets are not recommended for use in pregnant women during or immediately prior to labor, when other analgesic techniques are more appropriate. Opioid analgesics, including Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, can prolong labor through actions which temporarily reduce the strength, duration, and frequency of uterine contractions. However, this effect is not consistent and may be offset by an increased rate of cervical dilation, which tends to shorten labor. Monitor neonates exposed to opioid analgesics during labor for signs of excess sedation and respiratory depression. Nursing Mothers Available data from lactation studies indicate that oxycodone is present in breastmilk and that doses of less than 60 mg/day of the immediate-release formulation are unlikely to result in clinically relevant exposures in breastfed infants. A pharmacokinetics study utilizing opportunistic sampling of 76 lactating women receiving oxycodone immediate-release products for postpartum pain management showed that oxycodone concentrates in breastmilk with an average milk to plasma ratio of 3.2. The relative infant dose was low, approximately 1.3% of a weight-adjusted maternal dose (see Data). In the same study, among the 70 infants exposed to oxycodone in breastmilk, no adverse events were attributed to oxycodone. However, based on known adverse effects in adults, infants should be monitored for signs of excess sedation and respiratory depression (see Clinical Considerations) . There are no data on the effects of the oxycodone on milk production. Acetaminophen is also excreted in breast milk in low concentrations. The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother’s clinical need for Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets or from the underlying maternal condition. Infants exposed to Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets through breast milk should be monitored for excess sedation and respiratory depression. Withdrawal symptoms can occur in breastfed infants when maternal administration of an opioid analgesic is stopped, or when breast-feeding is stopped. Data Oxycodone concentration data from 76 lactating women receiving immediate-release oxycodone products for postpartum pain management, and 28 infants exposed to oxycodone in breastmilk showed that following a median (range) dose of oxycodone in mothers of 9.2 (5-10) mg/dose or 33.0 (5.4-59.3) mg/day, oxycodone concentrated in breastmilk with a median (range) milk to plasma ratio of 3.2 (1.2-5.3). However, when using maternal breastmilk data to estimate the daily and relative infant dose, the infant dose was 0.006 mg/kg/day, which is 1.3% of a weight-adjusted maternal dose of 10 mg every 6 hours. These estimates based on maternal breastmilk concentrations were corroborated by the observed infant concentrations, of which over 75% (19/25) were below the limit of quantification. Among the 6 infants with quantifiable concentration, the median (range) concentration was 0.2 ng/mL (0.1-0.7). These concentrations are 100 to 1000 times lower than concentrations observed in other studies after infants received oxycodone at 0.1 mg/kg/dose (~20-200 ng/mL). Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets in pediatric patients have not been established. Geriatric Use Elderly patients (aged 65 years or older) may have increased sensitivity Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets. In general, use caution when selecting a dosage for an elderly patient, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Respiratory depression is the chief risk for elderly patients treated with opioids, and has occurred after large initial doses were administered to patients who were not opioid-tolerant or when opioids were co-administered with other agents that depress respiration. Titrate the dosage of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets slowly in geriatric patients and frequently reevaluate the patient for signs of central nervous system and respiratory depression [see Warnings]. These drugs are known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of adverse reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function. Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and it may be useful to regularly evaluate renal function. Hepatic Impairment In a pharmacokinetic study of oxycodone in patients with end-stage liver disease, oxycodone plasma clearance decreased and the elimination half-life increased. Because oxycodone is extensively metabolized in the liver, its clearance may decrease in patients with hepatic impairment. Initiate therapy in these patients with a lower than usual dosage of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets and titrate carefully. Monitor closely for adverse events such as respiratory depression, sedation, and hypotension [see Clinical Pharmacology]. Renal Impairment In a study of patients with end stage renal impairment, mean elimination half-life was prolonged in uremic patients due to increased volume of distribution and reduced clearance. Oxycodone should be used with caution in patients with renal impairment. Because oxycodone is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, its clearance may decrease in patients with renal impairment. Initiate therapy with a lower than usual dosage of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets and titrate carefully. Drug Interactions Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 The concomitant use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets and CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), can increase the plasma concentration of oxycodone, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets and CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitors, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets is achieved [see WARNINGS ]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the oxycodone plasma concentration will decrease [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ], resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets. Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Inducers of CYP3A4 The concomitant use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets and CYP3A4 inducers, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, can decrease the plasma concentration of oxycodone [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets [see WARNINGS ]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the oxycodone plasma concentration will increase [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ], which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets dosage reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Follow patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS ]. Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue), has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The concomitant use of opioids and MAOIs, such as phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid, may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma ) [see WARNINGS ]. The use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Muscle Relaxants Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets may enhance the neuromuscular-blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increase in the degree of respiratory depression. If concomitant use is warranted, monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS ]. If concomitant use is warranted, monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. If concomitant use is warranted, monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue), has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. Because respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected, decrease the dosage of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Inducers of CYP3A4 The concomitant use of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets and CYP3A4 inducers, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, can decrease the plasma concentration of oxycodone [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ], resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets [see WARNINGS ]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the oxycodone plasma concentration will increase [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ], which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions and may cause serious respiratory depression. Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), tryptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue), has resulted in serotonin syndrome. [see PRECAUTIONS ; Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. If concomitant use is warranted, frequently evaluate the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment .Discontinue Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The concomitant use of opioids and MAOIs, such as phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid, may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see WARNINGS ]. [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers ].

=== PHENAZOPYRIDINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Urinary Analgesic
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phenazopyridine HCl is indicated for the symptomatic relief of pain, burning, urgency, frequency, and other discomforts arising from irritation of the lower urinary tract mucosa caused by infection, trauma, surgery, endoscopic procedures, or the passage of sounds or catheters. The use of Phenazopyridine HCl for relief of symptoms should not delay definitive diagnosis and treatment of causative conditions. Because it provides only symptomatic relief, prompt appropriate treatment of the cause of pain must be instituted and Phenazopyridine HCl should be discontinued when symptoms are controlled. The analgesic action may reduce or eliminate the need for systemic analgesics or narcotics. It is, however, compatible with antibacterial therapy and can help to relieve pain and discomfort during the interval before antibacterial therapy controls the infection. Treatment of a urinary tract infection with Phenazopyridine HCl should not exceed 2 days because there is a lack of evidence that the combined administration of Phenazopyridine HCl and an antibacterial provides greater benefit than administration of the antibacterial alone after 2 days. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section.) Use Fast relief from urinary pain, burning, urgency and frequency associated with urinary tract infections. Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride is indicated for the symptomatic relief of pain, burning, urgency frequency, and other discomforts arising from irritation of the mucosa of the lower urinary tract caused by infection, trauma, surgery, endoscopic procedures, or the passage of sounds or catheters. The use of Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride for relief of symptoms should not delay definitive diagnosis and treatment of causative conditions. The drug should be used for symptomatic relief of pain and not as a substitute for specific surgery or antimicrobial therapy. Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride is compatible with antimicrobial therapy and can help relieve pain and discomfort during the interval before antimicrobial therapy controls the infection. Treatment of a urinary tract infection with Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride should not exceed 2 days. There is no evidence that the combined administration of Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride and an antimicrobial provides greater benefit than administration of the antimicrobial alone after 2 days. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION.) Uses fast relief from urinary pain,burning,urgency and frequency associated with urinary tract infections. (see DOSAGE and ADMINISTRATION section) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride is indicated for the symptomatic relief of pain, burning, urgency frequency, and other discomforts arising from irritation of the mucosa of the lower urinary tract caused by infection, trauma, surgery, endoscopic procedures, or the passage of sounds or catheters. (See Dosage and Administration .) Treatment of a urinary tract infection with Phenazopyridine HCl should not exceed 2 days because there is a lack of evidence that the combined administration of Phenazopyridine HCl and an antibacterial provides greater benefit than administration of the antibacterial alone after 2 days (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section).
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 100 mg Tablets: Average adult dosage is two tablets 3 times a day after meals. 200 mg Tablets: Average adult dosage is one tablet 3 times a day after meals. When used concomitantly with an antibacterial agent for the treatment of a urinary tract infection, the administration of Phenazopyridine HCl should not exceed 2 days. Directions ■ adults and children 12 years and over: take 2 tablets 3 times daily with a full glass of water, with or after meals as needed ■ children under 12 years: consult a doctor ■ Do not use for more than 2 days (12 tablets) without consulting a doctor image of carton To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Winder Laboratories, LLC at 1-770-307-0703, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 100 mg Tablets: Average adult dosage is two tablets 3 times a day after meals. When used concomitantly with an antibacterial agent for the treatment of a urinary tract infection, the administration of Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride should not exceed 2 days. Directions ■ Adults and children 12 and over: take 2 tablets 3 times daily with a full glass of water, with or after meals as needed ■ Children under 12: consult a doctor ■ Do not use for more than 2 days (12 tablets) without consulting a doctor
Warnings: Warnings Do not exceed recommended dosage Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride is reasonably anticipated to be a human carcinogen based on sufficient evidence of carcinogenicity in experimental animals (IARC 1980, 1982, 1987, NCI 1978). When administered in the diet, Phenazopyridine hydrochloride increased the incidences of hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas in female mice and adenomas and adenocarcinomas of the colon and rectum in rats of both sexes. There is inadequate evidence for the carcinogenicity of Phenazopyridine hydrochloride in humans (TARC 1987). In one limited epidemiological study, no significant excess of any cancer was observed among 2,214 patients who received Phenazopyridine hydrochloride and were followed for a minimum of 3 years. Warning Do not exceed recommended dosage WARNINGS Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride is reasonably anticipated to be a human carcinogen based on sufficient evidence of carcinogenicity in experimental animals (IARC 1980, 1982, 1987, NCI 1978).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Phenazopyridine HCl should not be used in patients who have previously exhibited hypersensitivity to it. The use of Phenazopyridine HCl is contraindicated in patients with renal insufficiency. Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride should not be used in patients who are hypersensitive to the drug or its ingredients. Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with renal insufficiency, severe liver disease, severe hepatitis or pyelonephritis of pregnancy. It should be used cautiously in the presence of GI disturbances. CONTRAINDICATIONS Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride should not be used in patients who are hypersensitive to the drug or its ingredients.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions The interaction of Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride with other drugs has not been studied in a systematic manner. However, the medical literature to date suggests that no significant interactions have been reported.

=== ETODOLAC ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of etodolac tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use etodolac tablets. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS ). Etodolac tablets are indicated: For acute and long-term use in the management of signs and symptoms of the following: Osteoarthritis Rheumatoid arthritis For the management of acute pain INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of etodolac and other treatment options before deciding to use etodolac. Etodolac tablets, USP are indicated: For acute and long-term use in the management of signs and symptoms of the following: Osteoarthritis Rheumatoid arthritis For the management of acute pain INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of etodolac capsules and tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use etodolac capsules and tablets. Etodolac Capsules and Tablets are indicated: For acute and long-term use in the management of signs and symptoms of the following: Osteoarthritis Rheumatoid arthritis For the management of acute pain Etodolac tablets, USP are indicated: • For acute and long-term use in the management of signs and symptoms of the following: o Osteoarthritis o Rheumatoid arthritis • For the management of acute pain INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of etodolac capsules and other treatment options before deciding to use etodolac capsules. Etodolac capsules are indicated: • For acute and long-term use in the management of signs and symptoms of the following: 1. Osteoarthritis 2. Rheumatoid arthritis • For the management of acute pain INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of etodolac extended-release tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use etodolac extended-release tablets. Etodolac extended-release tablets are indicated: For relief of signs and symptoms of juvenile arthritis For relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis For relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of etodolac tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use etodolac tablets. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS ). After observing the response to initial therapy with etodolac tablets, the dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient's needs. Dosage adjustment of etodolac tablets is generally not required in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment. Etodolac should be used with caution in such patients, because, as with other NSAIDs, it may further decrease renal function in some patients with impaired renal function (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ). Analgesia The recommended total daily dose of etodolac for acute pain is up to 1000 mg, given as 200 to 400 mg every 6 to 8 hours. Doses of etodolac greater than 1000 mg/day have not been adequately evaluated in well-controlled trials. Osteoarthritis and Rheumatoid Arthritis The recommended starting dose of etodolac for the management of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis is: 300 mg b.i.d., t.i.d., or 400 mg b.i.d., or 500 mg b.i.d. A lower dose of 600 mg/day may suffice for long-term administration. Physicians should be aware that doses above 1000 mg/day have not been adequately evaluated in well-controlled clinical trials. In chronic conditions, a therapeutic response to therapy with etodolac is sometimes seen within one week of therapy, but most often is observed by two weeks. After a satisfactory response has been achieved, the patient's dose should be reviewed and adjusted as required. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of etodolac and other treatment options before deciding to use etodolac. After observing the response to the initial therapy with etodolac, the dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient's needs. Dosage adjustment of etodolac is generally not required in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment. Analgesia The recommended total daily dose of etodolac for acute pain is up to 1,000 mg, given as 200 to 400 mg every 6 to 8 hours. Doses of etodolac greater than 1,000 mg/day have not been adequately evaluated in well-controlled clinical trials. Physicians should be aware that doses above 1,000 mg/day have not been adequately evaluated in well-controlled clinical trials. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of etodolac capsules and tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use etodolac capsules and tablets. After observing the response to initial therapy with etodolac capsules and tablets, the dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient's needs. Dosage adjustment of etodolac capsules and tablets is generally not required in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment. Analgesia The recommended total daily dose of etodolac for acute pain is up to 1000 mg, given as 200-400 mg every 6 to 8 hours. Analgesia The recommended total daily dose of etodolac tablets for acute pain is up to 1000 mg, given as 200-400 mg every 6 to 8 hours. Osteoarthritis and Rheumatoid Arthritis The recommended starting dose of etodolac tablets for the management of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis is: 300 mg b.i.d., t.i.d., or 400 mg b.i.d., or 500 mg b.i.d. Etodolac should be used with caution in such patients, because, as with other NSAIDs, it may further decrease renal function in some patients with impaired renal function (see Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. Error! ). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of etodolac capsules and other treatment options before deciding to use etodolac capsules. After observing the response to initial therapy with etodolac capsules, the dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient's needs. Dosage adjustment of etodolac capsules is generally not required in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment. Analgesia The recommended total daily dose of etodolac capsules for acute pain is up to 1000 mg, given as 200 to 400 mg every 6 to 8 hours. Osteoarthritis and Rheumatoid Arthritis The recommended starting dose of etodolac capsules for the management of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis is: 300 mg b.i.d., t.i.d., or 400 mg b.i.d., or 500 mg b.i.d. In chronic conditions, a therapeutic response to therapy with etodolac capsules is sometimes seen within one week of therapy, but most often is observed by two weeks. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of etodolac extended-release tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use etodolac extended-release tablets. After observing the response to initial therapy with etodolac extended-release tablets, the dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient's needs. Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis For the relief of the signs and symptoms of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis in patients 6 to 16 years of age, the recommended dose given orally once per day should be based on body weight, according to the following table: Table 4. Body Weight Range (kg) Dose 20 to 30 400 mg Tablet × 1 31 to 45 600 mg Tablet × 1 46 to 60 400 mg Tablet × 2 >60 500 mg Tablet × 2 Rheumatoid Arthritis and Osteoarthritis For the relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis, the recommended starting dose of etodolac extended-release tablets is 400 to 1000 mg given orally once per day. As with other NSAIDs, the lowest effective dose should be sought for each patient. In chronic conditions, a therapeutic response to therapy with etodolac extended-release tablets is sometimes seen within one week of therapy, but most often is observed by two weeks.
Warnings: WARNINGS CARDIOVASCULAR EFFECTS Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, including myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke, which can be fatal. Based on available data, it is unclear that the risk for CV thrombotic events is similar for all NSAIDs. The relative increase in serious CV thrombotic events over baseline conferred by NSAID use appears to be similar in those with and without known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease. However, patients with known CV disease or risk factors had a higher absolute incidence of excess serious CV thrombotic events, due to their increased baseline rate. Some observational studies found that this increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events began as early as the first weeks of treatment. The increase in CV thrombotic risk has been observed most consistently at higher doses. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in NSAID-treated patients, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, throughout the entire treatment course, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Patients should be informed about the symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as etodolac, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events (see WARNINGS ). Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery Two large, controlled clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10 to 14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. NSAIDs are contraindicated in the setting of CABG (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Post-MI Patients Observational studies conducted in the Danish National Registry have demonstrated that patients treated with NSAIDs in the post-MI period were at increased risk of reinfarction, CV-related death, and all-cause mortality beginning in the first week of treatment. In this same cohort, the incidence of death in the first year post MI was 20 per 100 person years in NSAID-treated patients compared to 12 per 100 person years in non-NSAID exposed patients. Although the absolute rate of death declined somewhat after the first year post-MI, the increased relative risk of death in NSAID users persisted over at least the next four years of follow-up. Avoid the use of etodolac in patients with a recent MI unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If etodolac is used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia. Hypertension NSAIDs, including etodolac, can lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of pre-existing hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Patients taking thiazides or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs. NSAIDs, including etodolac, should be used with caution in patients with hypertension. Blood pressure (BP) should be monitored closely during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy. Heart Failure and Edema The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists' Collaboration meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately two-fold increase in hospitalizations for heart failure in COX-2 selective-treated patients and nonselective NSAID-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. In a Danish National Registry study of patients with heart failure, NSAID use increased the risk of MI, hospitalization for heart failure, and death. Additionally, fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients treated with NSAIDs. Use of etodolac may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions [e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs)] (see DRUG INTERACTIONS ). Avoid the use of etodolac in patients with severe heart failure unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure. If etodolac is used in patients with severe heart failure, monitor patients for signs of worsening heart failure. Gastrointestinal Effects - Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation NSAIDs, including etodolac, can cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDs. Only one in five patients, who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy, is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occur in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3 to 6 months, and in about 2 to 4% of patients treated for one year. These trends continue with longer duration of use, increasing the likelihood of developing a serious GI event at some time during the course of therapy. However, even short-term therapy is not without risk. Physicians should inform patients about the signs and/or symptoms of serious GI toxicity and what steps to take if they occur. NSAIDs should be prescribed with extreme caution in those with a prior history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding. Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease, and/or gastrointestinal bleeding , and who use NSAIDs have a greater than 10-fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients with neither of these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk for GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include concomitant use of oral corticosteroids or anticoagulants, longer duration of NSAID therapy, smoking, use of alcohol, older age, and poor general health status. Most spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in elderly or debilitated patients, and therefore, special care should be taken in treating this population. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse GI event in patients treated with an NSAID, the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest possible duration. Patients and physicians should remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during NSAID therapy and promptly initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious GI adverse event is suspected. This should include discontinuation of the NSAID until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. For high risk patients, alternate therapies that do not involve NSAIDs should be considered. Renal Effects Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greater risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics and ACE inhibitors, and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. Renal pelvic transitional epithelial hyperplasia, a spontaneous change occurring with variable frequency, was observed with increased frequency in treated male rats in a 2-year chronic study. Caution is recommended in patients with pre-existing kidney disease. Advanced Renal Disease No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of etodolac, in patients with advanced renal disease. Therefore, treatment with etodolac is not recommended in these patients with advanced renal disease. If etodolac therapy must be initiated, close monitoring of the patient's renal function is advisable. Anaphylactoid Reactions As with other NSAIDs, anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without prior exposure to etodolac. Etodolac should not be given to patients with the aspirin triad. This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Fatal reactions have been reported in such patients (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS, General, Pre-existing Asthma ). Emergency help should be sought in cases where an anaphylactoid reaction occurs. Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including etodolac, can cause serious skin adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. NSAIDs can also cause fixed drug eruption (FDE). FDE may present as a more severe variant known as generalized bullous fixed drug eruption (GBFDE), which can be life-threatening. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions, and to discontinue the use of etodolac tablets at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Etodolac tablets is contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) has been reported in patients taking NSAIDs such as etodolac. Some of these events have been fatal or life-threatening. DRESS typically, although not exclusively, presents with fever, rash, lymphadenopathy, and/or facial swelling. Other clinical manifestations may include hepatitis, nephritis, hematological abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis. Sometimes symptoms of DRESS may resemble an acute viral infection. Eosinophilia is often present. Because this disorder is variable in its presentation, other organ systems not noted here may be involved. It is important to note that early manifestations of hypersensitivity, such as fever or lymphadenopathy, may be present even though rash is not evident. If such signs or symptoms are present, discontinue etodolac and evaluate the patient immediately. Fetal Toxicity Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus: Avoid use of NSAIDs, including etodolac, in pregnant women at about 30 weeks gestation and later. NSAIDs including etodolac, increase the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus at approximately this gestational age. Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment: Use of NSAIDs, including etodolac, at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy may cause fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios and, in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. These adverse outcomes are seen, on average, after days to weeks of treatment, although oligohydramnios has been infrequently reported as soon as 48 hours after NSAID initiation. Oligohydramnios is often, but not always, reversible with treatment discontinuation. Complications of prolonged oligohydramnios may, for example, include limb contractures and delayed lung maturation. In some postmarketing cases of impaired neonatal renal function, invasive procedures such as exchange transfusion or dialysis were required. If NSAID treatment is necessary between about 20 weeks and 30 weeks gestation, limit etodolac use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. Consider ultrasound monitoring of amniotic fluid if etodolac treatment extends beyond 48 hours. Discontinue etodolac if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice [see PRECAUTIONS; Pregnancy ]. Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery Two-large, controlled clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10 to 14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. Heart Failure and Edema The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists’ Collaboration meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately two-fold increase in hospitalizations for heart failure in COX-2 selective-treated patients and nonselective NSAID-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. Gastrointestinal (GI) Effects - Risk of GI Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation NSAIDs, including etodolac, can cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine or large intestine, which can be fatal. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occur in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3 to 6 months, and in about 2% to 4% of patients treated for 1 year. Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease, and/or gastrointestinal bleeding, and who use NSAIDs have a greater than 10-fold risk for developing a GI bleed than patients with neither of these risk factors. Most spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in elderly of debilitated patients, and therefore, special care should be taken in treating this population. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse GI event, the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest possible duration. Patients at a greater risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics and ACE inhibitors, and the elderly. Advanced Renal Disease No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of etodolac in patients with advanced renal disease. If etodolac therapy must be initiated, close monitoring of the patient’s renal function is advisable. Fatal reactions have been reported in such patients (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS , General , Pre-existing Asthma ). Etodolac tablet is contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Discontinue etodolac if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice [see PRECAUTIONS ; Pregnancy ] . The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as etodolac, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events [see Warnings ]. Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery Two large, controlled clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10–14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. NSAIDs are contraindicated in the setting of CABG [see Contraindications ]. Avoid the use of etodolac capsules and tablets in patients with a recent MI unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If etodolac capsules and tablets are used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia. Hypertension NSAIDs, including etodolac capsules and tablets, can lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of pre-existing hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. NSAIDs, including etodolac capsules and tablets, should be used with caution in patients with hypertension. Use of etodolac may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions [e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs)] [see Drug Interactions ]. Avoid the use of etodolac capsules and tablets in patients with severe heart failure unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure. If etodolac capsules and tablets are used in patients with severe heart failure, monitor patients for signs of worsening heart failure. Gastrointestinal Effects - Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation NSAIDs, including etodolac capsules and tablets, can cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine or large intestine, which can be fatal. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occur in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3-6 months, and in about 2-4% of patients treated for one year. Advanced Renal Disease No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of etodolac capsules and tablets in patients with advanced renal disease. Therefore, treatment with etodolac capsules and tablets is not recommended in these patients with advanced renal disease. If etodolac capsules and tablets therapy must be initiated, close monitoring of the patient's renal function is advisable. Anaphylactoid Reactions As with other NSAIDs, anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without prior exposure to etodolac capsules and tablets. Etodolac capsules and tablets should not be given to patients with the aspirin triad. Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including etodolac capsules and tablets, can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Patients should be informed about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) has been reported in patients taking NSAIDs such as etodolac capsules and tablets. If such signs or symptoms are present, discontinue etodolac capsules and tablets and evaluate the patient immediately. Fetal Toxicity Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus Avoid use of NSAIDs, including etodolac capsules and tablets, in pregnant women at about 30 weeks gestation and later. NSAIDs including etodolac capsules and tablets, increase the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus at approximately this gestational age. Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment Use of NSAIDs, including etodolac capsules and tablets, at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy may cause fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios and, in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. If NSAID treatment is necessary between about 20 weeks and 30 weeks gestation, limit etodolac capsules and tablets use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. Consider ultrasound monitoring of amniotic fluid if etodolac capsules and tablets treatment extends beyond 48 hours. Discontinue etodolac capsules and tablets if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice [ see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy ]. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in NSAID treated patients, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery Two large, controlled, clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10 - 14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. Avoid the use of etodolac tablets in patients with a recent MI unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If etodolac tablets are used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia. Hypertension NSAIDs, including etodolac tablets, can lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of pre-existing hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. NSAIDs, including etodolac tablets, should be used with caution in patients with hypertension. Avoid the use of etodolac tablets in patients with severe heart failure unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure. If etodolac tablets are used in patients with severe heart failure, monitor patients for signs of worsening heart failure. Gastrointestinal Effects - Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation NSAIDs, including etodolac tablets, can cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine or large intestine, which can be fatal. Patients with a a prior history of peptic ulcer disease, and/or gastrointestinal bleeding , and who use NSAIDs have a greater than 10-fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients with neither of these risk factors. Advanced Renal Disease No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of etodolac tablets in patients with advanced renal disease. Therefore, treatment with etodolac tablets is not recommended in these patients with advanced renal disease. If etodolac tablets therapy must be initiated, close monitoring of the patient’s renal function is advisable. Anaphylactoid Reactions As with other NSAIDS, anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without prior exposure to etodolac tablets. Etodolac tablets should not be given to patients with the aspirin triad. Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including etodolac tablets, can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Pregnancy In late pregnancy, the third trimester, as with other NSAIDs, etodolac tablets should be avoided because it may cause premature closure of the ductus arteriosus (see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy, Nonteratogenic Effects ). Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including etodolac, can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Pregnancy In late pregnancy, the third trimester, as with other NSAIDs, etodolac should be avoided because it may cause premature closure of the ductus arteriosus (see PRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy , Non-teratogenic Effects ). The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as etodolac, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events (see WARNINGS, Gastrointestinal Effects - Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation ). NSAIDs are contraindicated in the setting of CABG (see CONTRAINDICTIONS ). Avoid the use of etodolac capsules in patients with a recent MI unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If etodolac capsules are used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia. Hypertension NSAIDs, including etodolac capsules, can lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of preexisting hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. NSAIDs, including etodolac capsules, should be used with caution in patients with hypertension. Avoid the use of etodolac capsules in patients with severe heart failure unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure. If etodolac capsules are used in patients with severe heart failure, monitor patients for signs of worsening heart failure. Gastrointestinal Effects - Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation NSAIDs, including etodolac capsules, can cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine or large intestine, which can be fatal. Patients at greater risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics and ACE-inhibitors, and the elderly. Caution is recommended in patients with preexisting kidney disease. Advanced Renal Disease No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of etodolac capsules in patients with advanced renal disease. Therefore, treatment with etodolac capsules is not recommended in these patients with advanced renal disease. If etodolac capsule therapy must be initiated, close monitoring of the patient's renal function is advisable. Anaphylactoid Reactions As with other NSAIDs, anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without prior exposure to etodolac capsules. Etodolac capsules should not be given to patients with the aspirin triad. Fatal reactions have been reported in such patients (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS, General, Preexisting Asthma ). Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including etodolac capsules, can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) has been reported in patients taking NSAIDs such as etodolac capsules. If such signs or symptoms are present, discontinue etodolac capsules and evaluate the patient immediately. Fetal Toxicity Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus Avoid use of NSAIDs, including etodolac capsules, in pregnant women at about 30 weeks gestation and later. NSAIDs including etodolac capsules, increase the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus at approximately this gestational age. Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment Use of NSAIDs, including etodolac capsules, at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy may cause fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios and, in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. If NSAID treatment is necessary between about 20 weeks and 30 weeks gestation, limit etodolac capsules use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. Consider ultrasound monitoring of amniotic fluid if etodolac capsules treatment extends beyond 48 hours. Discontinue etodolac capsules if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice (see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy ). Avoid the use of etodolac extended-release tablets in patients with a recent MI unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If etodolac extended-release tablets are used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia. Hypertension NSAIDs, including etodolac extended-release tablets, can lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of preexisting hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. NSAIDs, including etodolac extended-release tablets, should be used with caution in patients with hypertension. Avoid the use of etodolac extended-release tablets in patients with severe heart failure unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure. If etodolac extended-release tablets are used in patients with severe heart failure, monitor patients for signs of worsening heart failure. Gastrointestinal Effects - Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation NSAIDs, including etodolac extended-release tablets, can cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or gastrointestinal bleeding who use NSAIDs have a greater than 10-fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients with neither of these risk factors. Most spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in elderly or debilitated patients and therefore, special care should be taken in treating this population. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics and ACE inhibitors, and the elderly. Advanced Renal Disease No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of etodolac extended-release tablets in patients with advanced renal disease. Therefore, treatment with etodolac extended-release tablets is not recommended in these patients with advanced renal disease. If etodolac extended-release tablet therapy must be initiated, close monitoring of the patient's renal function is advisable. Anaphylactoid Reactions As with other NSAIDs, anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without known prior exposure to etodolac extended-release tablets. Etodolac extended-release tablets should not be given to patients with the aspirin triad. This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS, Preexisting Asthma ). Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions, and to discontinue the use of etodolac extended-release tablets at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Etodolac extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) has been reported in patients taking NSAIDs such as etodolac extended-release tablets. If such signs or symptoms are present, discontinue etodolac extended-release tablets and evaluate the patient immediately. Fetal Toxicity Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus Avoid use of NSAIDs, including etodolac extended-release tablets, in pregnant women at about 30 weeks gestation and later. NSAIDs including etodolac extended-release tablets, increase the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus at approximately this gestational age. Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment Use of NSAIDs, including etodolac extended-release tablets, at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy may cause fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios and, in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. If NSAID treatment is necessary between about 20 weeks and 30 weeks gestation, limit etodolac extended-release tablets use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. Consider ultrasound monitoring of amniotic fluid if etodolac extended-release tablets treatment extends beyond 48 hours. Discontinue etodolac extended-release tablets if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice [ see PRECAUTIONS; Pregnancy ].
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Etodolac tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to etodolac or other ingredients in etodolac tablets. Etodolac tablets should not be given to patients who have experienced asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, rarely fatal, anaphylactic-like reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients (see WARNINGS, Anaphylactoid Reactions and PRECAUTIONS, Pre-existing Asthma ). In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery (see WARNINGS ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Etodolac is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to etodolac. Etodolac should not be given to patients who have experienced asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Etodolac tablets are contraindicated in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery (see WARNINGS ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Etodolac Capsules and Tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to etodolac or other ingredients in etodolac. Etodolac Capsules and Tablets should not be given to patients who have experienced asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [see Warnings ] Severe, rarely fatal, anaphylactic-like reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients (see Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. and PRECAUTIONS, Pre-existing Asthma ). 1. CONTRAINDICATIONS Etodolac capsules are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to etodolac or other ingredients in etodolac capsules. Etodolac capsules should not be given to patients who have experienced asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, rarely fatal, anaphylactic-like reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients (see WARNINGS, Anaphylactoid Reactions and PRECAUTIONS, Preexisting Asthma ). Etodolac capsules are contraindicated in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery (see WARNINGS ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Etodolac extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to etodolac. Etodolac extended-release tablets should not be given to patients who have experienced asthma, urticaria, or allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Etodolac extended-release tablets are contraindicated in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery (see WARNINGS ).
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors (see WARNINGS ). Antacids The concomitant administration of antacids has no apparent effect on the extent of absorption of etodolac. However, antacids can decrease the peak concentration reached by 15% to 20% but have no detectable effect on the time-to-peak. Aspirin When etodolac is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free etodolac is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of etodolac and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cyclosporine, Digoxin, Methotrexate Etodolac, like other NSAIDs, through effects on renal prostaglandins, may cause changes in the elimination of these drugs leading to elevated serum levels of cyclosporine, digoxin, methotrexate, and increased toxicity. Nephrotoxicity associated with cyclosporine may also be enhanced. Patients receiving these drugs who are given etodolac, or any other NSAID, and particularly those patients with altered renal function, should be observed for the development of the specific toxicities of these drugs. NSAIDs, such as etodolac, should not be administered prior to or concomitantly with high doses of methotrexate. NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. In general, caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Diuretics Etodolac has no apparent pharmacokinetic interaction when administered with furosemide or hydrochlorothiazide. Nevertheless, clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations have shown that etodolac can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients with possible loss of blood pressure control. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal insufficiency or failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Glyburide Etodolac has no apparent pharmacokinetic interaction when administered with glyburide. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Careful monitoring of lithium levels is advised in the event NSAID dosage adjustments are required. Phenylbutazone Phenylbutazone causes increase (by about 80%) in the free fraction of etodolac. Although in vivo studies have not been done to see if etodolac clearance is changed by co-administration of phenylbutazone, it is not recommended that they be co-administered. Phenytoin Etodolac has no apparent pharmacokinetic interaction when administered with phenytoin. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than that of users of either drug alone. Short-term pharmacokinetic studies have demonstrated that concomitant administration of warfarin and etodolac results in reduced protein binding of warfarin, but there was no change in the clearance of free warfarin. There was no significant difference in the pharmacodynamic effect of warfarin administered alone and warfarin administered with etodolac as measured by prothrombin time. Thus, concomitant therapy with warfarin and etodolac should not require dosage adjustment of either drug. However, caution should be exercised because there have been a few spontaneous reports of prolonged prothrombin times, with or without bleeding, in etodolac-treated patients receiving concomitant warfarin therapy. Close monitoring of such patients is therefore recommended. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions The urine of patients who take etodolac can give a false-positive reaction for urinary bilirubin (urobilin) due to the presence of phenolic metabolites of etodolac. Diagnostic dip-stick methodology, used to detect ketone bodies in urine, has resulted in false-positive findings in some patients treated with etodolac. Generally, this phenomenon has not been associated with other clinically significant events. No dose relationship has been observed. Etodolac treatment is associated with a small decrease in serum uric acid levels. In clinical trials, mean decreases of 1 to 2 mg/dL were observed in arthritic patients receiving etodolac (600 to 1000 mg/day) after 4 weeks of therapy. These levels then remained stable for up to 1 year of therapy. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors (see PRECAUTIONS , General , Renal Effects ). Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Nevertheless, clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations have shown that etodolac can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Although in vivo studies have not been done to see if etodolac clearance is changed by coadministration of phenylbutazone, it is not recommended that they be coadministered. Antacids The concomitant administration of antacids has no apparent effect on the extent of absorption of etodolac capsules and tablets. Aspirin When etodolac capsules and tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free etodolac is not altered. Short-term pharmacokinetic studies have demonstrated that concomitant administration of warfarin and etodolac capsules and tablets results in reduced protein binding of warfarin, but there was no change in the clearance of free warfarin. There was no significant difference in the pharmacodynamic effect of warfarin administered alone and warfarin administered with etodolac capsules and tablets as measured by prothrombin time. Aspirin When etodolac tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free etodolac is not altered. Thus, concomitant therapy with warfarin and etodolac tablets should not require dosage adjustment of either drug. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. Error! ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of etodolac capsules and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin When etodolac extended-release tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free etodolac is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of etodolac extended-release tablets and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Cyclosporine and Digoxin Etodolac extended-release tablets, like other NSAIDs, through effects on renal prostaglandins, may cause changes in the elimination of these drugs, leading to elevated serum levels of cyclosporine and digoxin and increased toxicity. Patients receiving these drugs who are given etodolac extended-release tablets, or any other NSAID, and particularly those patients with altered renal function, should be observed for the development of the specific toxicities of these drugs. Furosemide Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that etodolac extended-release tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Phenylbutazone Phenylbutazone causes an increase (by about 80%) in the free fraction of etodolac. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone.

=== LEVOCETIRIZINE DIHYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antihistamine
Indications: Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other respiratory allergies: runny nose sneezing itchy, watery eyes itching of the nose or throat Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other respiratory allergies: • runny nose • itchy, watery eyes • sneezing • itching of the nose or throat 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levocetirizine dihydrochloride is a histamine H 1 -receptor antagonist indicated for: The treatment of the uncomplicated skin manifestations of chronic idiopathic urticaria ( 1.2 ) 1.2 Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria Levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of the uncomplicated skin manifestations of chronic idiopathic urticaria in adults and children 6 years of age and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE XYZAL is a histamine H 1 -receptor antagonist indicated for: The relief of symptoms associated with perennial allergic rhinitis ( 1.1 ) The treatment of the uncomplicated skin manifestations of chronic idiopathic urticaria ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Perennial Allergic Rhinitis XYZAL is indicated for the relief of symptoms associated with perennial allergic rhinitis in children 6 months to 2 years of age. 1.2 Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria XYZAL is indicated for the treatment of the uncomplicated skin manifestations of chronic idiopathic urticaria in adults and children 6 months of age and older. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets are a histamine H 1 -receptor antagonist indicated for: • The relief of symptoms associated with perennial allergic rhinitis ( 1.1 ) • The treatment of the uncomplicated skin manifestations of chronic idiopathic urticaria (1.2 ) 1.2 Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria Levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of the uncomplicated skin manifestations of chronic idiopathic urticaria in adults and children 6 years of age and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levocetirizine dihydrochloride is a histamine H 1 -receptor antagonist indicated for: • The treatment of the uncomplicated skin manifestations of chronic idiopathic urticaria ( 1.2 ) 1.2 Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria Levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of the uncomplicated skin manifestations of chronic idiopathic urticaria in adults and children 6 years of age and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets are a histamine H 1 -receptor antagonist indicated for: The treatment of the uncomplicated skin manifestations of chronic idiopathic urticaria ( 1.2 ) 1.2 Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria Levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of the uncomplicated skin manifestations of chronic idiopathic urticaria in adults and children 6 years of age and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levocetirizine dihydrochloride is a histamine H 1 -receptor antagonist indicated for: • The relief of symptoms associated with perennial allergic rhinitis ( 1.1 ) • The treatment of the uncomplicated skin manifestations of chronic idiopathic urticaria ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Levocetirizine dihydrochloride is indicated for the relief of symptoms associated with perennial allergic rhinitis in children 6 months to 2 years of age. 1.2 Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria Levocetirizine dihydrochloride is indicated for the treatment of the uncomplicated skin manifestations of chronic idiopathic urticaria in adults and children 6 months of age and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levocetirizine dihydrochloride is a histamine H 1 -receptor antagonist indicated for: • The relief of symptoms associated with perennial allergic rhinitis ( 1.1 ) • The treatment of the uncomplicated skin manifestations of chronic idiopathic urticaria ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets are indicated for the relief of symptoms associated with perennial allergic rhinitis in children 6 years of age and older. 1.2 Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria Levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of the uncomplicated skin manifestations of chronic idiopathic urticaria in adults and children 6 years of age and older.
Dosage: Directions adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor adults and children 12-64 years of age take 1 tablet (5 mg) once daily in the evening do not take more than 1 tablet (5 mg) in 24 hours 1/2 tablet (2.5 mg) once daily in the evening may be appropriate for less severe symptoms children 6-11 years of age take 1/2 tablet (2.5 mg) once daily in the evening do not take more than 1/2 tablet (2.5 mg) in 24 hours children under 6 years of age do not use consumers with kidney disease do not use Directions adults 65 years of age and older • ask a doctor adults and children 12-64 years of age • take 1 tablet (5 mg) once daily in the evening • do not take more than 1 tablet (5 mg) in 24 hours • ½ tablet (2.5 mg) once daily in the evening may be appropriate for less severe symptoms children 6-11 years of age • take ½ tablet (2.5 mg) once daily in the evening • do not take more than ½ tablet (2.5 mg) in 24 hours children under 6 years of age • do not use consumers with kidney disease • do not use 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets are available as 5 mg breakable (scored) tablets, allowing for the administration of 2.5 mg, if needed. Levocetirizine tablets can be taken without regard to food consumption. Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria ( 2.2 ) Adults and children 12 years of age and older: 5 mg once daily in the evening Children 6 to 11 years of age: 2.5 mg once daily in the evening Renal Impairment Adjust the dose in patients 12 years of age and older with decreased renal function ( 12.3 ) 2.2 Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria Adults and Children 12 Years of Age and Older The recommended dose of levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablet is 5 mg (1 tablet) once daily in the evening. Some patients may be adequately controlled by 2.5 mg (1/2 tablet) once daily in the evening. Children 6 to 11 Years of Age The recommended dose of levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablet is 2.5 mg (1/2 tablet) once daily in the evening. The 2.5 mg dose should not be exceeded because the systemic exposure with 5 mg is approximately twice that of adults [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Dose Adjustment for Renal and Hepatic Impairment In adults and children 12 years of age and older with: Mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance [CL CR ] = 50 to 80 mL/min): a dose of 2.5 mg once daily is recommended; Moderate renal impairment (CL CR = 30 to 50 mL/min): a dose of 2.5 mg once every other day is recommended; Severe renal impairment (CL CR = 10 to 30 mL/min): a dose of 2.5 mg twice weekly (administered once every 3 to 4 days) is recommended; End-stage renal disease patients (CL CR <10 mL/min) and patients undergoing hemodialysis should not receive levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets. No dose adjustment is needed in patients with solely hepatic impairment. In patients with both hepatic impairment and renal impairment, adjustment of the dose is recommended. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION XYZAL is available as 2.5 mg/5 mL (0.5 mg/mL) oral solution and as 5 mg breakable (scored) tablets, allowing for the administration of 2.5 mg, if needed. XYZAL can be taken without regard to food consumption. Perennial Allergic Rhinitis ( 2.1 ) Children 6 months to 2 years of age: 1.25 mg (1/2 teaspoon oral solution) (2.5 mL) once daily in the evening Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria ( 2.2 ) Adults and children 12 years of age and older: 5 mg once daily in the evening Children 6 to 11 years of age: 2.5 mg once daily in the evening Children 6 months to 5 years of age: 1.25 mg (1/2 teaspoon oral solution) (2.5 mL) once daily in the evening Renal Impairment Adjust the dose in patients 12 years of age and older with decreased renal function ( 12.3 ) 2.1 Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Children 6 months to 2 Years of Age The recommended initial dose of XYZAL is 1.25 mg (1/2 teaspoon oral solution) (2.5 mL) once daily in the evening. The 1.25 mg once daily dose should not be exceeded based on comparable exposure to adults receiving 5 mg [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.2 Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria Adults and Children 12 Years of Age and Older The recommended dose of XYZAL is 5 mg (1 tablet or 2 teaspoons [10 mL] oral solution) once daily in the evening. Some patients may be adequately controlled by 2.5 mg (1/2 tablet or 1 teaspoon [5 mL] oral solution) once daily in the evening. Children 6 to 11 Years of Age The recommended dose of XYZAL is 2.5 mg (1/2 tablet or 1 teaspoon [5 mL] oral solution) once daily in the evening. The 2.5 mg dose should not be exceeded because the systemic exposure with 5 mg is approximately twice that of adults [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . Children 6 months to 5 Years of Age The recommended initial dose of XYZAL is 1.25 mg (1/2 teaspoon oral solution) (2.5 mL) once daily in the evening. Dose Adjustment for Renal and Hepatic Impairment In adults and children 12 years of age and older with: Mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance [CL CR ] = 50-80 mL/min): a dose of 2.5 mg once daily is recommended; Moderate renal impairment (CL CR = 30-50 mL/min): a dose of 2.5 mg once every other day is recommended; Severe renal impairment (CL CR = 10-30 mL/min): a dose of 2.5 mg twice weekly (administered once every 3-4 days) is recommended; End-stage renal disease patients (CL CR <10 mL/min) and patients undergoing hemodialysis should not receive XYZAL. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Levocetirizine dihydrochloride is available as 5 mg breakable (scored) tablets, allowing for the administration of 2.5 mg, if needed. Levocetirizine dihydrochloride can be taken without regard to food consumption.. Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria ( 2.2 ) • Adults and children 12 years of age and older: 5 mg once daily in the evening • Children 6 to 11 years of age: 2.5 mg once daily in the evening • Renal Impairment Adjust the dose in patients 12 years of age and older with decreased renal function ( 12.3 ) 2.2 Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria Adults and Children 12 Years of Age and Older The recommended dose of levocetirizine dihydrochloride is 5 mg (1 tablet) once daily in the evening. Children 6 to 11 Years of Age The recommended dose of levocetirizine dihydrochloride is 2.5 mg (1/2 tablet) once daily in the evening. The 2.5 mg dose should not be exceeded because the systemic exposure with 5 mg is approximately twice that of adults [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Dose Adjustment for Renal and Hepatic Impairment In adults and children 12 years of age and older with: • Mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance [CL CR ]=50-80 mL/min): a dose of 2.5 mg once daily is recommended; • Moderate renal impairment (CL CR = 30-50 mL/min): a dose of 2.5 mg once every other day is recommended; • Severe renal impairment (CL CR = 10-30 mL/min): a dose of 2.5 mg twice weekly (administered once every 3-4 days) is recommended; • End-stage renal disease patients (CL CR <10 mL/min) and patients undergoing hemodialysis should not receive levocetirizine dihydrochloride. Levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets can be taken without regard to food consumption. Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria ( 2.2 ) • Adults and children 12 years of age and older: 5 mg once daily in the evening • Children 6 to 11 years of age: 2.5 mg once daily in the evening • Renal Impairment Adjust the dose in patients 12 years of age and older with decreased renal function ( 12.3 ) 2.2 Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria Adults and Children 12 Years of Age and Older The recommended dose of levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets is 5 mg (1 tablet) once daily in the evening. Children 6 to 11 Years of Age The recommended dose of levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets is 2.5 mg (1/2 tablet) once daily in the evening. Dose Adjustment for Renal and Hepatic Impairment In adults and children 12 years of age and older with: • Mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance [CL CR ] = 50 to 80 mL/min): a dose of 2.5 mg once daily is recommended; • Moderate renal impairment (CL CR = 30 to 50 mL/min): a dose of 2.5 mg once every other day is recommended; • Severe renal impairment (CL CR = 10 to 30 mL/min): a dose of 2.5 mg twice weekly (administered once every 3 to 4 days) is recommended; • End-stage renal disease patients (CL CR < 10 mL/min) and patients undergoing hemodialysis should not receive levocetirizine dihydrochloride. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Levocetirizine dihydrochloride is available as 5 mg breakable (scored) tablets, allowing for the administration of 2.5 mg, if needed. Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria (2.2) Adults and children 12 years of age and older: 5 mg once daily in the evening Children 6 to 11 years of age: 2.5 mg once daily in the evening Renal Impairment Adjust the dose in patients 12 years of age and older with decreased renal function ( 12.3 ) 2.2 Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria Adults and Children 12 Years of Age and Older The recommended dose of levocetirizine dihydrochloride is 5 mg (1 tablet) once daily in the evening. The 2.5 mg dose should not be exceeded because the systemic exposure with 5 mg is approximately twice that of adults [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Levocetirizine dihydrochloride is available as 2.5 mg/5 mL (0.5 mg/mL) oral solution. Levocetirizine dihydrochloride can be taken without regard to food consumption. Perennial Allergic Rhinitis ( 2.1 ) • Children 6 months to 2 years of age: 1.25 mg (1/2 teaspoon oral solution) (2.5mL) once daily in the evening Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria ( 2.2 ) • Adults and children 12 years of age and older: 5 mg once daily in the evening • Children 6 to 11 years of age: 2.5 mg once daily in the evening • Children 6 months to 5 years of age: 1.25 mg (1/2 teaspoon oral solution) (2.5 mL) once daily in the evening • Renal Impairment Adjust the dose in patients 12 years of age and older with decreased renal function ( 12.3 ) 2.1 Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Children 6 months to 2 Years of Age The recommended initial dose of levocetirizine dihydrochloride is 1.25 mg (1/2 teaspoon oral solution) (2.5mL) once daily in the evening. 2.2 Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria Adults and Children 12 Years of Age and Older The recommended dose of levocetirizine dihydrochloride is 5 mg (2 teaspoons [10 mL] oral solution) once daily in the evening. Some patients may be adequately controlled by 2.5 mg (1 teaspoon [5 mL] oral solution) once daily in the evening. Children 6 to 11 Years of Age The recommended dose of levocetirizine dihydrochloride is 2.5 mg (1 teaspoon [5 mL] oral solution) once daily in the evening. Children 6 months to 5 Years of Age The recommended initial dose of levocetirizine dihydrochloride is 1.25 mg (1/2 teaspoon oral solution) (2.5 mL) once daily in the evening. Dose Adjustment for Renal and Hepatic Impairment In adults and children 12 years of age and older with: • Mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance [CL CR ] = 50-80 mL/min): a dose of 2.5 mg once daily is recommended; • Moderate renal impairment (CL CR = 30-50 mL/min): a dose of 2.5 mg once every other day is recommended; • Severe renal impairment (CL CR = 10-30 mL/min): a dose of 2.5 mg twice weekly (administered once every 3-4 days) is recommended; • End-stage renal disease patients (CL CR < 10 mL/min) and patients undergoing hemodialysis should not receive levocetirizine dihydrochloride. Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria ( 2.2 ) • Adults and children 12 years of age and older: 5 mg once daily in the evening • Children 6 to 11 years of age: 2.5 mg once daily in the evening • Renal Impairment Adjust the dose in patients 12 years of age and older with decreased renal function ( 12.3 ) 2.2 Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria Adults and Children 12 Years of Age and Older The recommended dose of levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablet is 5 mg (1 tablet) once daily in the evening. Dose Adjustment for Renal and Hepatic Impairment In adults and children 12 years of age and older with: • Mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance [CL CR ] = 50 to 80 mL/min): a dose of 2.5 mg once daily is recommended; • Moderate renal impairment (CL CR = 30 to 50 mL/min): a dose of 2.5 mg once every other day is recommended; • Severe renal impairment (CL CR = x10 to 30 mL/min): a dose of 2.5 mg twice weekly (administered once every 3 to 4 days) is recommended; • End-stage renal disease patients (CL CR < 10 mL/min) and patients undergoing hemodialysis should not receive levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets.
Warnings: Warnings Do not use if you have kidney disease if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients or to an antihistamine containing cetirizine Ask a doctor before use if you have ever had trouble urinating or emptying your bladder When using this product drowsiness may occur avoid alcoholic drinks alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery Stop use and ask doctor if you have trouble urinating or emptying your bladder an allergic reaction to this product occurs. Seek medical help right away. If pregnant or breast-feeding: if breast-feeding: not recommended if pregnant: ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Warnings Do not use • if you have kidney disease • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients or to an antihistamine containing cetirizine Ask a doctor before use if you have • ever had trouble urinating or emptying your bladder When using this product • drowsiness may occur • avoid alcoholic drinks • alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness • be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery Stop use and ask a doctor if • you have trouble urinating or emptying your bladder • an allergic reaction to this product occurs. If pregnant or breast-feeding: • if breast-feeding: not recommended • if pregnant: ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of levocetirizine dihydrochloride is contraindicated in: Patients with a known hypersensitivity to levocetirizine or any of the ingredients of levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets or to cetirizine ( 4.1 ) Patients with end-stage renal disease at less than 10 mL/min creatinine clearance or patients undergoing hemodialysis ( 4.2 ) Children 6 months to 11 years of age with renal impairment ( 4.3 ) 4.1 Patients with Known Hypersensitivity Patients with known hypersensitivity to levocetirizine or any of the ingredients of levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets, or to cetirizine. Observed reactions range from urticaria to anaphylaxis [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. 4.2 Patients with End-Stage Renal Disease Patients with end-stage renal disease (CL CR <10 mL/min) and patients undergoing hemodialysis 4.3 Pediatric Patients with Impaired Renal Function Children 6 months to 11 years of age with impaired renal function 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of XYZAL is contraindicated in: Patients with a known hypersensitivity to levocetirizine or any of the ingredients of XYZAL or to cetirizine ( 4.1 ) Patients with end-stage renal disease at less than 10 mL/min creatinine clearance or patients undergoing hemodialysis ( 4.2 ) Children 6 months to 11 years of age with renal impairment ( 4.3 ) 4.1 Patients with Known Hypersensitivity Patients with known hypersensitivity to levocetirizine or any of the ingredients of XYZAL, or to cetirizine. Observed reactions range from urticaria to anaphylaxis [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of levocetirizine dihydrochloride is contraindicated in: • Patients with a known hypersensitivity to levocetirizine or any of the ingredients of levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets or to cetirizine ( 4.1 ) • Patients with end-stage renal disease at less than 10 mL/min creatinine clearance or patients undergoing hemodialysis ( 4.2 ) • Children 6 months to 11 years of age with renal impairment ( 4.3 ) 4.1 Patients with Known Hypersensitivity Patients with known hypersensitivity to levocetirizine or any of the ingredients of levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets, or to cetirizine. Observed reactions range from urticaria to anaphylaxis [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ) ]. 4.2 Patients with End-Stage Renal Disease Patients with end-stage renal disease (CL CR < 10 mL/min) and patients undergoing hemodialysis. 4.3 Pediatric Patients with Impaired Renal Function Children 6 months to 11 years of age with impaired renal function. 4.2 Patients with End-Stage Renal Disease Patients with end-stage renal disease (CL CR < 10 mL/min) and patients undergoing hemodialysis 4.3 Pediatric Patients with Impaired Renal Function Children 6 months to 11 years of age with impaired renal function 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets is contraindicated in: Patients with a known hypersensitivity to levocetirizine or any of the ingredients of levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets or to cetirizine ( 4.1 ) Patients with end-stage renal disease at less than 10 mL/min creatinine clearance or patients undergoing hemodialysis ( 4.2 ) Children 6 months to 11 years of age with renal impairment ( 4.3 ) 4.1 Patients with Known Hypersensitivity Patients with known hypersensitivity to levocetirizine or any of the ingredients of levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets, or to cetirizine. Observed reactions range from urticaria to anaphylaxis [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of levocetirizine dihydrochloride is contraindicated in: • Patients with a known hypersensitivity to levocetirizine or any of the ingredients of levocetirizine dihydrochloride or to cetirizine ( 4.1 ) • Patients with end-stage renal disease at less than 10 mL/min creatinine clearance or patients undergoing hemodialysis ( 4.2 ) • Children 6 months to 11 years of age with renal impairment ( 4.3 ) 4.1 Patients with Known Hypersensitivity Patients with known hypersensitivity to levocetirizine or any of the ingredients of levocetirizine dihydrochloride, or to cetirizine. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in: • Patients with a known hypersensitivity to levocetirizine or any of the ingredients of levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets or to cetirizine ( 4.1 ) • Patients with end-stage renal disease at less than 10 mL/min creatinine clearance or patients undergoing hemodialysis ( 4.2 ) • Children 6 months to 11 years of age with renal impairment ( 4.3 ) 4.1 Patients with Known Hypersensitivity Patients with known hypersensitivity to levocetirizine or any of the ingredients of levocetirizine dihydrochloride tablets, or to cetirizine. Observed reactions range from urticaria to anaphylaxis [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] .
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS In vitro data indicate that levocetirizine is unlikely to produce pharmacokinetic interactions through inhibition or induction of liver drug-metabolizing enzymes. No in vivo drug-drug interaction studies have been performed with levocetirizine. Drug interaction studies have been performed with racemic cetirizine. 7.1 Antipyrine, Azithromycin, Cimetidine, Erythromycin, Ketoconazole, Theophylline, and Pseudoephedrine Pharmacokinetic interaction studies performed with racemic cetirizine demonstrated that cetirizine did not interact with antipyrine, pseudoephedrine, erythromycin, azithromycin, ketoconazole, and cimetidine. There was a small decrease (~16%) in the clearance of cetirizine caused by a 400 mg dose of theophylline. It is possible that higher theophylline doses could have a greater effect. 7.2 Ritonavir Ritonavir increased the plasma AUC of cetirizine by about 42% accompanied by an increase in half-life (53%) and a decrease in clearance (29%) of cetirizine. The disposition of ritonavir was not altered by concomitant cetirizine administration. There was a small decrease (~ 16%) in the clearance of cetirizine caused by a 400 mg dose of theophylline.

=== CHLORTHALIDONE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Diuretics such as chlorthalidone are indicated in the management of hypertension either as the sole therapeutic agent or to enhance the effect of other antihypertensive drugs in the more severe forms of hypertension. Chlorthalidone is indicated as adjunctive therapy in edema associated with congestive heart failure, hepatic cirrhosis, and corticosteroid and estrogen therapy. Chlorthalidone has also been found useful in edema due to various forms of renal dysfunction, such as nephrotic syndrome, acute glomerulonephritis, and chronic renal failure. Usage in Pregnancy The routine use of diuretics in an otherwise healthy woman is inappropriate and exposes mother and fetus to unnecessary hazard. Diuretics do not prevent development of toxemia of pregnancy, and there is no satisfactory evidence that they are useful in the treatment of developed toxemia. Edema during pregnancy may arise from pathologic causes or from the physiologic and mechanical consequences of pregnancy. Chlorthalidone is indicated in pregnancy when edema is due to pathologic causes, just as it is in the absence of pregnancy (however, see PRECAUTIONS, below). Dependent edema in pregnancy, resulting from restriction of venous return by the expanded uterus, is properly treated through elevation of the lower extremities and use of support hose; use of diuretics to lower intravascular volume in this case is illogical and unnecessary. There is hypervolemia during normal pregnancy that is harmful to neither the fetus nor the mother (in the absence of cardiovascular disease), but that is associated with edema, including generalized edema, in the majority of pregnant women. If this edema produces discomfort, increased recumbency will often provide relief. In rare instances, this edema may cause extreme discomfort that is not relieved by rest. In these cases, a short course of diuretics may provide relief and be appropriate. Chlorthalidone is indicated in pregnancy when edema is due to pathologic causes, just as it is in the absence of pregnancy (however, see PRECAUTIONS , below). There is hypervolemia during normal pregnancy that is harmful to neither the fetus nor the mother (in the absence of cardio vascular disease), but that is associated with edema, including generalized edema, in the majority of pregnant women. Diuretics such as chlorthalidone are indicated in the management of hypertension either as the sole therapeutic agent or to enhance the effect of other antihypertensive drugs in the more severe forms of hypertension. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Edarbyclor is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Edarbyclor may be used in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on monotherapy. Edarbyclor may be used as initial therapy if a patient is likely to need multiple drugs to achieve blood pressure goals. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including thiazide-like diuretics such as chlorthalidone and ARBs such as azilsartan medoxomil. There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with Edarbyclor. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management of high blood pressure, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program's Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients; however, the blood pressure effect of Edarbyclor in blacks is similar to that in non-blacks. Many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. The choice of Edarbyclor as initial therapy for hypertension should be based on an assessment of potential benefits and risks including whether the patient is likely to tolerate the starting dose of Edarbyclor. Patients with moderate-to-severe hypertension are at a relatively high risk of cardiovascular events (e.g., stroke, heart attack, and heart failure), kidney failure, and vision problems, so prompt treatment is clinically relevant. Consider the patient's baseline blood pressure, target goal and the incremental likelihood of achieving the goal with a combination product, such as Edarbyclor, versus a monotherapy product when deciding upon initial therapy. Individual blood pressure goals may vary based on the patient's risk. Data from an 8-week, active-controlled, factorial trial provide estimates of the probability of reaching a target blood pressure with Edarbyclor compared with azilsartan medoxomil or chlorthalidone monotherapy [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . Figures 1.a-1.d provide estimates of the likelihood of achieving target clinic systolic and diastolic blood pressure control with Edarbyclor 40/25 mg tablets after 8 weeks, based on baseline systolic or diastolic blood pressure. The curve for each treatment group was estimated by logistic regression modeling and is more variable at the tails. Figure 1.a Probability of Achieving Systolic Blood Pressure <140 mmHg at Week 8 Figure 1.b Probability of Achieving Systolic Blood Pressure <130 mmHg at Week 8 Figure 1.c Probability of Achieving Diastolic Blood Pressure <90 mmHg at Week 8 Figure 1.d Probability of Achieving Diastolic Blood Pressure <80 mmHg at Week 8 For example, a patient with a baseline blood pressure of 170/105 mm Hg has approximately a 48% likelihood of achieving a goal of <140 mm Hg (systolic) and 48% likelihood of achieving <90 mm Hg (diastolic) on azilsartan medoxomil 80 mg. The likelihood of achieving these same goals on chlorthalidone 25 mg is approximately 51% (systolic) and 40% (diastolic). These likelihoods rise to 85% (systolic) and 85% (diastolic) with Edarbyclor 40/25 mg. Edarbyclor is a combination of azilsartan medoxomil, an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and chlorthalidone, a thiazide-like diuretic combination product indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure: In patients not adequately controlled with monotherapy ( 1 ) As initial therapy in patients likely to need multiple drugs to help achieve blood pressure goals ( 1 ) Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions ( 1 ) Figure 1.a Figure 1.b Figure 1.c Figure 1.d INDICATIONS AND USAGE Atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure lowers the risk of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including atenolol and chlorthalidone. Many patients will require more than 1 drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program's Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). This fixed dose combination drug is not indicated for initial therapy of hypertension. If the fixed dose combination represents the dose appropriate to the individual patient's needs, it may be more convenient than the separate components. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Diuretics such as chlorthalidone tablets, USP are indicated in the management of hypertension either as the sole therapeutic agent or to enhance the effect of other antihypertensive drugs in the more severe forms of hypertension. Chlorthalidone tablets, USP are indicated as adjunctive therapy in edema associated with congestive heart failure, hepatic cirrhosis, and corticosteroid and estrogen therapy. Chlorthalidone tablets, USP has also been found useful in edema due to various forms of renal dysfunction, such as nephrotic syndrome, acute glomerulonephritis, and chronic renal failure. INDICATIONS & USAGE Diuretics such as chlorthalidone are indicated in the management of hypertension either as the sole therapeutic agent or to enhance the effect of other antihypertensive drugs in the more severe forms of hypertension.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Therapy should be initiated with the lowest possible dose. This dose should be titrated according to individual patient response to gain maximal therapeutic benefit while maintaining lowest dosage possible. A single dose given in the morning with food is recommended; divided daily doses are unnecessary. Hypertension Initiation: Therapy, in most patients, should be initiated with a single daily dose of 25 mg. If the response is insufficient after a suitable trial, the dosage may be increased to a single daily dose of 50 mg. If additional control is required, the dosage of chlorthalidone may be increased to 100 mg once daily or a second antihypertensive drug (step 2 therapy) may be added. Dosage above 100 mg daily usually does not increase effectiveness. Increases in serum uric acid and decreases in serum potassium are dose-related over the 25 to 100 mg/day range. Maintenance: Maintenance doses may be lower than initial doses and should be adjusted according to individual patient response. Effectiveness is well sustained during continued use. Edema Initiation: Adults, initially 50 to 100 mg daily, or 100 mg on alternate days. Some patients may require 150 to 200 mg at these intervals or up to 200 mg daily. Dosages above this level, however, do not usually produce a greater response. Maintenance: Maintenance doses may often be lower than initial doses and should be adjusted according to individual patient response. Therapy should be initiated with the lowest possible dose. Increases in serum uric acid and decreases in serum potassium are dose-related over the 25 mg/day to 100 mg/day range. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Starting dose is 40/12.5 mg once daily ( 2.1 ) Edarbyclor may be used to provide additional blood pressure lowering for patients not adequately controlled on azilsartan medoxomil 80 mg or chlorthalidone 25 mg ( 2.1 ) Dose may be increased to 40/25 mg after 2 to 4 weeks as needed to achieve blood pressure goals ( 2.1 ) Maximal dose is 40/25 mg ( 2.1 ) May be administered with other antihypertensive agents ( 2.1 ) Edarbyclor may be administered with or without food ( 2.1 ) Replace volume in volume-depleted patients prior to use ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Dosing Information The recommended starting dose of Edarbyclor is 40/12.5 mg taken orally once daily. Most of the antihypertensive effect is apparent within 1 to 2 weeks. The dosage may be increased to 40/25 mg after 2 to 4 weeks as needed to achieve blood pressure goals. Edarbyclor doses above 40/25 mg are probably not useful. Patients titrated to the individual components (azilsartan medoxomil and chlorthalidone) may instead receive the corresponding dose of Edarbyclor. Edarbyclor may be administered with other antihypertensive agents as needed. 2.2 Prior to Dosing Correct any volume depletion prior to administration of Edarbyclor, particularly in patients with impaired renal function or those treated with high doses of diuretics [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Patients who experience dose-limiting adverse reactions on chlorthalidone may be switched to Edarbyclor, initially with a lower dose of chlorthalidone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. 2.3 Handling Instructions Do not repackage Edarbyclor. Dispense and store Edarbyclor in its original container to protect Edarbyclor from light and moisture. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DOSAGE MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED (See INDICATIONS AND USAGE ). Chlorthalidone is usually given at a dose of 25 mg daily; the usual initial dose of atenolol is 50 mg daily. Therefore, the initial dose should be one atenolol and chlorthalidone 50mg/25mg tablet given once a day. If an optimal response is not achieved, the dosage should be increased to one atenolol and chlorthalidone 100mg/25mg tablet given once a day. When necessary, another antihypertensive agent may be added gradually beginning with 50 percent of the usual recommended starting dose to avoid an excessive fall in blood pressure. Since atenolol is excreted via the kidneys, dosage should be adjusted in cases of severe impairment of renal function. No significant accumulation of atenolol occurs until creatinine clearance falls below 35 mL/min/1.73m 2 (normal range is 100 mL/min/1.73m 2 to 150 mL/min/1.73m 2 ); therefore, the following maximum dosages are recommended for patients with renal impairment. Creatinine Clearance (mL/min/1.73m 2 ) Atenolol Elimination Half-Life (hrs.) Maximum Dosage 15 to 35 16 to 27 50 mg daily < 15 > 27 50 mg every other day Hypertension Initiation Therapy, in most patients, should be initiated with a single daily dose of 25 mg. Maintenance Maintenance doses may be lower than initial doses and should be adjusted according to individual patient response. Edema Initiation Adults, initially 50 to 100 mg daily, or 100 mg on alternate days. Maintenance Maintenance doses may often be lower than initial doses and should be adjusted according to individual patient response. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Therapy should be initiated with the lowest possible dose.
Warnings: WARNINGS Chlorthalidone should be used with caution in severe renal disease. In patients with renal disease, chlorthalidone or related drugs may precipitate azotemia. Cumulative effects of the drug may develop in patients with impaired renal function. Chlorthalidone should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease, since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma. Sensitivity reactions may occur in patients with a history of allergy or bronchial asthma. The possibility of exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported with thiazide diuretics, which are structurally related to chlorthalidone. However, systemic lupus erythematosus has not been reported following chlorthalidone administration. Chlorthalidone should be used with caution in severe renal disease. WARNINGS Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation is necessary in supporting circulatory function in congestive heart failure, and beta blockade carries the potential hazard of further depressing myocardial contractility and precipitating more severe failure. IN PATIENTS WITHOUT A HISTORY OF CARDIAC FAILURE, continued depression of the myocardium with beta-blocking agents over a period of time can, in some cases, lead to cardiac failure. At the first sign or symptom of impending cardiac failure, patients should be treated appropriately according to currently recommended guidelines, and the response observed closely. If cardiac failure continues despite adequate treatment, atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets should be withdrawn (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Renal and Hepatic Disease and Electrolyte Disturbances Since atenolol is excreted via the kidneys, atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets should be used with caution in patients with impaired renal function. In patients with renal disease, thiazides may precipitate azotemia. Since cumulative effects may develop in the presence of impaired renal function, if progressive renal impairment becomes evident, atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets should be discontinued. In patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease, minor alterations in fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma. Atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets should be used with caution in these patients. Ischemic Heart Disease Following abrupt cessation of therapy with certain beta-blocking agents in patients with coronary artery disease, exacerbations of angina pectoris and, in some cases, myocardial infarction have been reported. Therefore, such patients should be cautioned against interruption of therapy without the physician's advice. Even in the absence of overt angina pectoris, when discontinuation of atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets is planned, the patient should be carefully observed and should be advised to limit physical activity to a minimum. Atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets should be reinstated if withdrawal symptoms occur. Because coronary artery disease is common and may be unrecognized, it may be prudent not to discontinue atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets therapy abruptly even in patients treated only for hypertension. Concomitant Use of Calcium Channel Blockers Bradycardia and heart block can occur and the left ventricular end diastolic pressure can rise when beta-blockers are administered with verapamil or diltiazem. Patients with pre-existing conduction abnormalities or left ventricular dysfunction are particularly susceptible (See PRECAUTIONS ). Bronchospastic Diseases PATIENTS WITH BRONCHOSPASTIC DISEASE SHOULD, IN GENERAL, NOT RECEIVE BETA-BLOCKERS. Because of its relative beta 1 -selectivity, however, atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets may be used with caution in patients with bronchospastic disease who do not respond to or cannot tolerate, other antihypertensive treatment. Since beta 1 -selectivity is not absolute, the lowest possible dose of atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets should be used and a beta 2 -stimulating agent (bronchodilator) should be made available. If dosage must be increased, dividing the dose should be considered in order to achieve lower peak blood levels. Major Surgery Chronically administered beta-blocking therapy should not be routinely withdrawn prior to major surgery, however the impaired ability of the heart to respond to reflex adrenergic stimuli may augment the risks of general anesthesia and surgical procedures. Metabolic and Endocrine Effects Beta-blockers may prevent early warning signs of hypoglycemia, such as tachycardia, and increase the risk for severe or prolonged hypoglycemia at any time during treatment, especially in patients with diabetes mellitus or children and patients who are fasting (i.e., surgery, not eating regularly, or are vomiting). If severe hypoglycemia occurs, patients should be instructed to seek emergency treatment. Insulin requirements in diabetic patients may be increased, decreased or unchanged; latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest during chlorthalidone administration. Beta-adrenergic blockade may mask certain clinical signs (e.g., tachycardia) of hyperthyroidism. Abrupt withdrawal of beta blockade might precipitate a thyroid storm; therefore, patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis from whom atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets therapy is to be withdrawn should be monitored closely. Because calcium excretion is decreased by thiazides, atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets should be discontinued before carrying out tests for parathyroid function. Pathologic changes in the parathyroid glands, with hypercalcemia and hypophosphatemia, have been observed in a few patients on prolonged thiazide therapy; however, the common complications of hyperparathyroidism such as renal lithiasis, bone resorption, and peptic ulceration have not been seen. Hyperuricemia may occur, or acute gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving thiazide therapy. Untreated Pheochromocytoma Atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets should not be given to patients with untreated pheochromocytoma. Pregnancy and Fetal Injury Atenolol can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Atenolol crosses the placental barrier and appears in cord blood. Administration of atenolol, starting in the second trimester of pregnancy, has been associated with the birth of infants that are small for gestational age. No studies have been performed on the use of atenolol in the first trimester and the possibility of fetal injury cannot be excluded. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Neonates born to mothers who are receiving atenolol at parturition or breastfeeding may be at risk for hypoglycemia and bradycardia. Caution should be exercised when atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets are administered during pregnancy or to a woman who is breastfeeding (See PRECAUTIONS, Nursing Mothers ). Atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets were studied for teratogenic potential in the rat and rabbit. Doses of atenolol/chlorthalidone of 8/2 mg/kg/day, 80/20 mg/kg/day, and 240/60 mg/kg/day were administered orally to pregnant rats with no evidence of embryofetotoxicity observed. Two studies were conducted in rabbits. In the first study, pregnant rabbits were dosed with 8/2 mg/kg/day, 80/20 mg/kg/day, and 160/40 mg/kg/day of atenolol/chlorthalidone. No teratogenic effects were noted, but embryonic resorptions were observed at all dose levels (ranging from approximately 5 times to 100 times the maximum recommended human dose * ). In the second rabbit study, doses of atenolol/chlorthalidone were 4/1 mg/kg/day, 8/2 mg/kg/day, and 20/5 mg/kg/day. No teratogenic or embryotoxic effects were demonstrated. Atenolol Atenolol has been shown to produce a dose-related increase in embryo/fetal resorptions in rats at doses equal to or greater than 50 mg/kg/day or 25 or more times the maximum recommended human antihypertensive dose. * Although similar effects were not seen in rabbits, the compound was not evaluated in rabbits at doses above 25 mg/kg/day or 12.5 times the maximum recommended human antihypertensive dose. * Chlorthalidone Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood. The use of chlorthalidone and related drugs in pregnant women requires that the anticipated benefits of the drug be weighed against possible hazards to the fetus. These hazards include fetal or neonatal jaundice, thrombocytopenia and possibly other adverse reactions which have occurred in the adult. * Based on the maximum dose of 100 mg/day in a 50 kg patient.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Anuria. Known hypersensitivity to chlorthalidone or other sulfonamide-derived drugs. Anuria. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Edarbyclor is contraindicated in patients with anuria [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Do not coadminister aliskiren-containing products with Edarbyclor in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Anuria ( 4 ) Do not coadminister aliskiren-containing products with Edarbyclor in patients with diabetes ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets are contraindicated in patients with: sinus bradycardia; heart block greater than first degree; cardiogenic shock; overt cardiac failure (see WARNINGS ); anuria; hypersensitivity to this product or to sulfonamide-derived drugs.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Chlorthalidone may add to or potentiate the action of other antihypertensive drugs. Potentiation occurs with ganglionic peripheral adrenergic blocking drugs. Medication such as digitalis may also influence serum electrolytes. Warning signs, irrespective of cause, are: dryness of mouth, thirst, weakness, lethargy, drowsiness, restlessness, muscle pains or cramps, muscular fatigue, hypotension, oliguria, tachycardia, and gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea and vomiting. Insulin requirements in diabetic patients may be increased, decreased, or unchanged. Higher dosage of oral hypoglycemic agents may be required. Latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest during chlorthalidone administration. Chlorthalidone and related drugs may increase the responsiveness to tubocurarine. Chlorthalidone and related drugs may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine. This diminution is not sufficient to preclude effectiveness of the pressor agent for therapeutic use. Drug /Laboratory Test Interactions Chlorthalidone and related drugs may decrease serum PBI levels without signs of thyroid disturbance. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility No information is available. Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects. Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies have been performed in the rat and the rabbit at doses up to 420 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to chlorthalidone. There are, however, no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response, this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed. Nonteratogenic Effects Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood. The use of chlorthalidone and related drugs in pregnant women requires that the anticipated benefits of the drug be weighed against possible hazards to the fetus. These hazards include fetal or neonatal jaundice, thrombocytopenia, and possibly other adverse reactions that have occurred in the adult. Nursing Mothers Thiazides are excreted in human milk. Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from chlorthalidone, a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother. Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Renal clearance of lithium is reduced by diuretics, such as chlorthalidone increasing the risk of lithium toxicity ( 7 ) NSAIDS increase risk of renal dysfunction and interfere with antihypertensive effect ( 7 ) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia ( 7 ) Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity ( 7 ) 7.1 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or who have compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including azilsartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving Edarbyclor and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of Edarbyclor may be attenuated by NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors. 7.2 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on Edarbyclor and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with Edarbyclor in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with Edarbyclor in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). 7.3 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor agonists. Lithium renal clearance is reduced by diuretics, such as chlorthalidone. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use. Drug Interactions Atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets may potentiate the action of other antihypertensive agents used concomitantly. Patients treated with atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets plus a catecholamine depletor (e.g., reserpine) should be closely observed for evidence of hypotension and/or marked bradycardia which may produce vertigo, syncope or postural hypotension. Calcium channel blockers may also have an additive effect when given with atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets (See WARNINGS ). Disopyramide is a Type I antiarrhythmic drug with potent negative inotropic and chronotropic effects. Disopyramide has been associated with severe bradycardia, asystole and heart failure when administered with beta-blockers. Amiodarone is an antiarrhythmic agent with negative chronotropic properties that may be additive to those seen with beta-blockers. Thiazides may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine. This diminution is not sufficient to preclude the therapeutic effectiveness of norepinephrine. Thiazides may increase the responsiveness to tubocurarine. Concomitant use of prostaglandin synthase inhibiting drugs, e.g., indomethacin, may decrease the hypotensive effects of beta-blockers. Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics because they reduce its renal clearance and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Read prescribing information for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with atenolol and chlorthalidone tablets. Beta-blockers may exacerbate the rebound hypertension which can follow the withdrawal of clonidine. If the two drugs are coadministered, the beta-blocker should be withdrawn several days before the gradual withdrawal of clonidine. If replacing clonidine by beta-blocker therapy, the introduction of beta-blockers should be delayed for several days after clonidine administration has stopped. While taking beta-blockers, patients with a history of anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may have a more severe reaction on repeated challenge, either accidental, diagnostic or therapeutic. Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat the allergic reaction. Both digitalis glycosides and beta-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Chlorthalidone and related drugs may decrease serum PBI levels without signs of thyroid disturbance. Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No information is available.

=== LIDOCAINE HCL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Topical Analgesic Purpose Topical anesthetic Purpose Topical analgesic Purpose External Analgesic
Indications: Adults and children over 12 years : apply a thin layer to the affected area every 6 to 8 hours, not to exceed 3 applications in a 24-hour period. AFTER APPLYING, WASH HANDS WITH SOAP AND WATER. Children under 12 years or younger: ask a doctor. Use for the temporary relief of pain USES: For temporary local relief of minor pain in muscles or joints. For the temporary relief of pain. Uses for the temporary relief of pain and itching associated with minor burns sunburn minor cuts scrapes insect bites minor skin irritations Uses temporarily relieves pain and itching due to: minor burns sunburn minor cuts scrapes insect bites minor skin irritations INDICATIONS: The product is used for the anti-inflammatory and anesthetic relief of redness, pain, itching, and discoloration due to inflammation and skin burns. For the relief of redness, pain, itching, discoloration, inflammation and mild skin burns associated with radiation. For use after radiation treatment, cosmetic procedures, sun exposure, and for inflammatory skin conditions. INDICATIONS: Product is used for the anti-inflammatory and anesthetic relief of itching, pain, soreness and discomfort due to hemorrhoids, anal fissures, pruritus ani and similar conditions of the anal area. Uses For the temporary relief of pain. Uses For temporary relief of pain and itching associated with minor cuts or minor skin irritations.
Dosage: Temporarily relieves minor pain. Directions ■ adults and children 12 years of age and older: ■ apply a thin layer to affected area every 6 to 8 hours, not more than 3 to 4 times daily ■ massage until thoroughly absorbed into skin ■ wash hands thoroughly with soap and water after each use ■ children under 12 years of age: ask a doctor DIRECTIONS: Adults and children over 12 years of age Apply a small amount to the affected area. Massage in a circular motion, let set for a few seconds. Repeat as necessary, but no more than 3 to 4 times daily. Children under 12 years of age; do not use unless directed by doctor. Clean affected area before applying product. Adults and children 12 years and older, apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily. Children under 12 years old, ask a doctor. Directions adults and children 2 years of age and older: apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 2 years of age: ask a doctor Directions adults and children 2 years and over: apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 2 years: ask a doctor DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Apply product to the affected area(s) twice daily or as directed by a licensed healthcare practitioner. If the condition does not respond to repeated courses of product or should worsen, discontinue use and seek the advice of your physician. Wash hands before and after application. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Apply product to the affected area(s) twice daily or as directed by a physician. Product should not be used in excess of recommendations or for prolonged use in the anal canal. Products without Applicators: Remove the child-resistant cap and foil seal from the tube. Apply a thin film to the affected area. Replace the cap after use. Products with Single-Use Tubes and Applicators: Tear open one cleansing wipe packet (if the product kit contains such item), gently clean the affected area and discard the used cleansing wipe. Remove the child-resistant cap and foil seal from one tube and firmly screw one applicator onto the tube. Do not over tighten. Squeeze the tube to fill the applicator until a small amount of cream/gel comes out of and lubricates the applicator openings. Gently insert the applicator tip with attached tube into anal area. Continue squeezing the body of the tube as it is moved around the areas of discomfort, and lastly, around and in the anal opening (if directed by physician). Do not completely insert the applicator and tube into the anus or insert deep into the rectum. Do not insert a loose applicator tip into the anus or rectum. Once application is completed, both the tube and applicator should be gently removed and discarded. Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older: Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times a daily. Children under 2 years of age: consult a doctor. Directions For adults and children two-years or older: Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily. Children under 2 years of age: consult a physician.
Warnings: For external use only. Do not use on large areas of the body or on cut, irritated, or swollen skin, on puncture wounds, for more than one week without consulting a doctor. When using this product use only as directed. Read and follow directions on this carton, avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes, do not apply to wounds or damaged, broken, or irritated skin, do not bandage tightly or apply local heat (such as heating pads) or a medicated patch to the area of use, do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics, a transient burning sensation may occur upon application but generally disappears in several days, avoid applying into skin folds. Stop use and ask a doctor if the condition worsens, redness is present, irritation develops, symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days, you experience signs of skin injury, such as pain, swelling, or blistering where the product was applied. Warnings For external use only Flammable : keep away from fire or flame. Do not use ■ in large quantities ■ on wounds or on irritated or damaged skin ■ with a heating pad When using this product ■ use only as directed ■ do not bandage tightly ■ avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes ■ do not expose the area to local heat or to direct sunlight Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days ■ symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days ■ redness is present or excessive skin irritation occurs ■ you experience severe burning pain, swelling, or blistering where the product was applied If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Ask a doctor before use if you have redness over affected area. Flammable. Keep away from fire or flame. Do not use in large quantities, particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas. When using this product avoid contact with eyes. In case of contact with eyes, flush thoroughly with water do not apply to wounds or damaged skin do not bandage tightly Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again with a few days redness or irritation develops Warnings For external use only For external use only Do not use in large quantities, particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas When using this product do not get into eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if condition gets worse symptoms last for more than 7 days symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children. WARNINGS: CONCERNS RELATED TO ADVERSE EFFECTS: Methemoglobinemia: Has been reported with local anesthetics; clinically significant methemoglobinemia requires immediate treatment along with discontinuation of the anesthetic and other oxidizing agents. Onset may be immediate or delayed (hours) after anesthetic exposure. Patients with G6PD deficiency, congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia, cardiac or pulmonary compromise, exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites, or infants <6 months of age are more susceptible and should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia (including pale, gray, or blue-colored skin (cyanosis), headache, rapid pulse, shortness of breath, lightheadedness, fatigue). WARNINGS: For external use only. Not for ophthalmic use. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days. Do not apply to wounds or damaged skin. Topical formulations of lidocaine may be absorbed to a greater extent through mucous membranes and abraded, fissured or irritated skin than through intact skin. Product should not be ingested or applied into the mouth, inside of the nose or in the eyes. Product should not be used in the ears. Any situation where lidocaine penetrates beyond the tympanic membrane into the middle ear is contraindicated because of ototoxicity associated with lidocaine observed in animals when instilled in the middle ear. Product should not come into contact with the eye or be applied into the eye because of the risk of severe eye irritation and the loss of eye surface sensation, which reduces protective reflexes and can lead to corneal irritation and possibly abrasion. If eye contact occurs, rinse out the eye immediately with saline or water and protect the eye surface until sensation is restored. PRECAUTIONS: For external use only. Product and used applicators could harm small children if chewed or swallowed. Any situation where lidocaine penetrates beyond the tympanic membrane into the middle ear is contraindicted because of ototoxicty associated with lidocaine observed in animals when instilled in the middle ear. Warnings For external use only not intended for ingestion. Warnings ​For external use only Avoid contact with eyes
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS: Product should not be used in patients with a history of sensitivity to any of its ingredients or adverse reactions to lidocaine or amide anesthetics, which usually do not cross-react with “caine” ester type anesthetics. If excessive irritation and significant worsening occur, discontinue use and seek the advice of your physician. Product and topical lidocaine should be used cautiously in those with impaired liver function, as well as the very ill or very elderly and those with significant liver disease. Product should be used with caution in patients receiving antiarrhythmic drugs of Class I since the adverse effects are additive and generally synergistic. Product is contraindicated for tuberculous or fungal lesions or skin vaccinia, varicella and acute herpes simplex. Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation.

=== OXYBUTYNIN CHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxybutynin chloride extended-release tablets are a muscarinic antagonist indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency, and frequency. Oxybutynin chloride extended-release tablets are also indicated for the treatment of pediatric patients aged 6 years and older with symptoms of detrusor overactivity associated with a neurological condition (e.g., spina bifida). Oxybutynin chloride extended-release tablets are a muscarinic antagonist indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency, and frequency. (1) Oxybutynin chloride extended-release tablets are also indicated for the treatment of pediatric patients aged 6 years and older with symptoms of detrusor overactivity associated with a neurological condition (e.g., spina bifida). (1) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxybutynin Chloride is indicated for the relief of symptoms of bladder instability associated with voiding in patients with uninhibited neurogenic or reflex neurogenic bladder (i.e., urgency, frequency, urinary leakage, urge incontinence, dysuria). ( 1 ) Oxybutynin chloride extended-release tablets are also indicated for the treatment of pediatric patients aged 6 years and older with symptoms of detrusor overactivity associated with a neurological condition (e.g., spina bifida). ( 1 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxybutynin chloride tablets are indicated for the relief of symptoms of bladder instability associated with voiding in patients with uninhibited neurogenic or reflex neurogenic bladder (i.e., urgency, frequency, urinary leakage, urge incontinence, dysuria). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxybutynin chloride is a muscarinic antagonist indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency, and frequency. ( 1 ) Oxybutynin chloride extended-release tablets are a muscarinic antagonist indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency, and frequency. Oxybutynin chloride extended release tablets are also indicated for the treatment of pediatric patients aged 6 years and older with symptoms of detrusor overactivity associated with a neurological condition (e.g., spina bifida).
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Oxybutynin chloride extended-release tablets must be swallowed whole with the aid of liquids, and must not be chewed, divided, or crushed. Oxybutynin chloride extended-release tablets may be administered with or without food. Oxybutynin chloride extended-release tablets must be swallowed whole with the aid of liquids, and must not be chewed, divided, or crushed. (2) Adults: Start with 5 mg or 10 mg, once daily at approximately the same time every day. Dose should not exceed 30 mg per day. ( 2.1 ) Pediatric patients (6 years of age or older): Start with 5 mg, once daily at approximately the same time every day. Dose should not exceed 20 mg per day. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Adults The recommended starting dose of Oxybutynin chloride extended-release tablets is 5 or 10 mg once daily at approximately the same time each day. Dosage may be adjusted in 5-mg increments to achieve a balance of efficacy and tolerability (up to a maximum of 30 mg/day). In general, dosage adjustment may proceed at approximately weekly intervals. 2.2 Pediatric Patients Aged 6 Years of Age and Older The recommended starting dose of Oxybutynin chloride extended-release tablets is 5 mg once daily at approximately the same time each day. Dosage may be adjusted in 5-mg increments to achieve a balance of efficacy and tolerability (up to a maximum of 20 mg/day). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults The usual dose is one 5-mg tablet two to three times a day. The maximum recommended dose is one 5-mg tablet four times a day. A lower starting dose of 2.5 mg two or three times a day is recommended for the frail elderly. Pediatric patients over 5 years of age The usual dose is one 5-mg tablet two times a day. The maximum recommended dose is one 5-mg tablet three times a day. (2.1) Pediatric patients (6 years of age or older): Start with 5 mg, once daily at approximately the same time every day. (2.2) 2.1 Adults The recommended starting dose of Oxybutynin chloride extended-release tablets is 5 or 10 mg once daily at approximately the same time each day. ( 2 ) Adults: Start with 5 mg or 10 mg, once daily at approximately the same time every day. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Adults The recommended starting dose of oxybutynin chloride extended-release tablets are 5 or 10 mg once daily at approximately the same time each day. Adults The usual dose is one 5-mg tablet two to three times a day. ( 2.1 ) Pediatric patients (6 years of age or older): Start with 5 mg, once daily at approximately the same time every day.Dose should not exceed 20 mg per day. ( 2.2 ) Oxybutynin chloride extended release tablets must be swallowed whole with the aid of liquids, and must not be chewed, divided, or crushed. Oxybutynin chloride extended release tablets may be administered with or without food. 2.1 Adults The recommended starting dose of oxybutynin chloride extended-release tablet is 5 mg or 10 mg once daily at approximately the same time each day. Dosage may be adjusted in 5 mg increments to achieve a balance of efficacy and tolerability (up to a maximum of 30 mg/day). 2.2 Pediatric Patients Aged 6 Years of Age and Older The recommended starting dose of oxybutynin chloride extended-release tablets are 5 mg once daily at approximately the same time each day. Dosage may be adjusted in 5 mg increments to achieve a balance of efficacy and tolerability (up to a maximum of 20 mg/day).
Warnings: WARNINGS Angioedema of the face, lips, tongue and/or larynx has been reported with oxybutynin. In some cases, angioedema occurred after the first dose. Angioedema associated with upper airway swelling may be life-threatening. If involvement of the tongue, hypopharynx, or larynx occurs, oxybutynin should be promptly discontinued and appropriate therapy and/or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway should be promptly provided.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxybutynin chloride extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with urinary retention, gastric retention and other severe decreased gastrointestinal motility conditions, uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma. Oxybutynin chloride extended-release tablets are also contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the drug substance or other components of the product. There have been reports of hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis and angiodema. Urinary retention (4) Gastric Retention (4) Uncontrolled narrow angle glaucoma (4) Known hypersensitivity to Oxybutynin chloride extended-release tablets, oxybutynin or any component of Oxybutynin chloride extended-release tablets (4) CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxybutynin Chloride is contraindicated in patients with urinary retention, gastric retention and other severe decreased gastrointestinal motility conditions, uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma and in patients who are at risk for these conditions. Oxybutynin Chloride is also contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the drug substance or other components of the product. There have been reports of hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis and angioedema. Urinary retention ( 4 ) Gastric Retention ( 4 ) Uncontrolled narrow angle glaucoma ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to oxybutynin chloride extended-release tablets, oxybutynin or any component of oxybutynin chloride extended-release tablets. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Urinary retention ( 4 ) Gastric Retention ( 4 ) Uncontrolled narrow angle glaucoma ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to oxybutynin chloride or any component of oxybutynin chloride extended-release tablets ( 4 ) Oxybutynin chloride extended release tablets are contraindicated in patients with urinary retention, gastric retention and other severe decreased gastrointestinal motility conditions, uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma. Oxybutynin chloride extended release tablets are also contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the drug substance or other components of the product.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The concomitant use of oxybutynin with other anticholinergic drugs or with other agents which produce dry mouth, constipation, somnolence (drowsiness), and/or other anticholinergic-like effects may increase the frequency and/or severity of such effects. Anticholinergic agents may potentially alter the absorption of some concomitantly administered drugs due to anticholinergic effects on gastrointestinal motility. This may be of concern for drugs with a narrow therapeutic index. Anticholinergic agents may also antagonize the effects of prokinetic agents, such as metoclopramide. Mean oxybutynin chloride plasma concentrations were approximately 2 fold higher when Oxybutynin chloride extended-release tablets were administered with ketoconazole, a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor. Other inhibitors of the cytochrome P450 3A4 enzyme system, such as antimycotic agents (e.g., itraconazole and miconazole) or macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin and clarithromycin), may alter oxybutynin mean pharmacokinetic parameters (i.e., C max and AUC). The clinical relevance of such potential interactions is not known. Caution should be used when such drugs are co-administered. Co-administration with other anticholinergic drugs may increase the frequency and/or severity of anticholinergic-like effects. (7) Co-administration with strong cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole) increases the systemic exposure of oxybutynin. (7) Drug Interactions The concomitant use of oxybutynin with other anticholinergic drugs or with other agents which produce dry mouth, constipation, somnolence (drowsiness), and/or other anticholinergic-like effects may increase the frequency and/or severity of such effects. Mean oxybutynin chloride plasma concentrations were approximately 3 to 4 fold higher when oxybutynin chloride was administered with ketoconazole, a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor. Mean oxybutynin chloride plasma concentrations were approximately 3-4 fold higher when oxybutynin chloride was administered with ketoconazole, a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor. Mean oxybutynin plasma concentrations were approximately 2 fold higher when Oxybutynin chloride extended-release tablets were administered with ketoconazole, a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor. ( 7 ) Co-administration with strong cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole) increases the systemic exposure of oxybutynin. ( 7 ) Anticholinergic agents may also antagonize the effects of the prokinetic agents, such as metoclopramide. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Co-administration with other anticholinergic drugs may increase the frequency and/or severity of anticholinergic-like effects. ( 7 ) The concomitant use of oxybutynin with other anticholinergic drugs or with other agents which produce dry mouth, constipation, somnolence (drowsiness), and/or other anticholinergic-like effects may increase the frequency and/or severity of such effects. Other inhibitors of the cytochrome P450 3A4 enzyme system, such as antimycotic agents (e.g., itraconazole and miconazole) or macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin and clarithromycin), may alter oxybutynin mean pharmacokinetic parameters (i.e., Cmax and AUC).

=== CLINDAMYCIN HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: DESCRIPTION Acolorless or slightly yellow clear liquid; with an odour of alcohol. PHARMACOLOGY AND TOXICOLOGY Clindamycin Hydrochloride is a bacteriostatic antibiotic, which is 4 to 8 times more potent than Lincomycin. It has potent antibacterial activity to aerobic gram-positive bacterium, such as Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, Bacillus diphtheriae and Bacillus anthracis. It also has good antibacterial activity to anaerobic gram-negative bacterium. Bacteroides (including bacteroides fragilis) and Clostridium are morbidly susceptible to it. It binds exclusively to the 50'S subunit of sensitive bacterial ribosome and suppresses protein synthesis. Clindamycin is a bacteriostat, but can kill high sensitive bacterium at high concentration. Metronidazole is an anti-anaerobic bacterial, anti-trichomonal and anti-amebic agent. Combination of Clindamycin Hydrochloride and Metronidazole can kill Propionibacterium acnes, Pityrosporum ovale, and some other sensitive bacterium and vermiform mite, and can inhibit them from growing. As a result, it can reduce the creation of lipase, and prevent triacylglycerol from hydrolyzing into free fatty acid. INDICATIONS It is indicated for the treatment of acne (especially for the acne pustulosa, cystic acne), tympanitis, nasosinusitis, folliculitis, and other bacterial infection on skin. It is also indicated for the supportive treatment of seborrheic dermatitis and brandy nose. Drug Interactions: There is antagonism between ACNIL and erythromycin, so the combination of ACNIL and erythromycin is forbidden.
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clindamycin is indicated in the treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible anaerobic bacteria. Clindamycin is also indicated in the treatment of serious infections due to susceptible strains of streptococci, pneumococci, and staphylococci. Its use should be reserved for penicillin-allergic patients or other patients for whom, in the judgment of the physician, a penicillin is inappropriate. Because of the risk of colitis, as described in the BOXED WARNING , before selecting clindamycin, the physician should consider the nature of the infection and the suitability of less toxic alternatives (e.g., erythromycin). Anaerobes: Serious respiratory tract infections such as empyema, anaerobic pneumonitis, and lung abscess; serious skin and soft tissue infections; septicemia; intra-abdominal infections such as peritonitis and intra-abdominal abscess (typically resulting from anaerobic organisms resident in the normal gastrointestinal tract); infections of the female pelvis and genital tract such as endometritis, nongonococcal tubo-ovarian abscess, pelvic cellulitis, and postsurgical vaginal cuff infection. Streptococci: Serious respiratory tract infections; serious skin and soft tissue infections. Staphylococci: Serious respiratory tract infections; serious skin and soft tissue infections. Pneumococci: Serious respiratory tract infections. Bacteriologic studies should be performed to determine the causative organisms and their susceptibility to clindamycin. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of clindamycin hydrochloride capsules USP and other antibacterial drugs, clindamycin hydrochloride capsules USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. Because of the risk of colitis, as described in the BOXED WARNING, before selecting clindamycin, the physician should consider the nature of the infection and the suitability of less toxic alternatives (e.g., erythromycin). Anaerobes: Serious respiratory tract infections such as empyema, anaerobic pneumonitis, and lung abscess; serious skin and soft tissue infections; septicemia; intra- abdominal infections such as peritonitis and intra-abdominal abscess (typically resulting from anaerobic organisms resident in the normal gastrointestinal tract); infections of the female pelvis and genital tract such as endometritis, nongonococcal tubo-ovarian abscess, pelvic cellulitis, and postsurgical vaginal cuff infection. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of clindamycin hydrochloride and other antibacterial drugs, clindamycin hydrochloride should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clindamycin hydrochloride capsules are indicated in the treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible anaerobic bacteria. Clindamycin hydrochloride capsules are also indicated in the treatment of seri­ous infections due to susceptible strains of streptococci, pneumococci, and staphylococci. Anaerobes: Serious respiratory tract infections such as empyema, anaerobic pneumonitis, and lung abscess; serious skin and soft tissue infections; septicemia; intra-abdominal infections such as peritonitis and intra-abdominal abscess (typically resulting from anaerobic organisms resident in the normal gastroin­testinal tract); infections of the female pelvis and geni­tal tract such as endometritis, nongonococcal tubo-ovarian abscess, pelvic cellulitis, and postsurgical vaginal cuff infection. Streptococci: Serious respiratory tract infections; seri­ous skin and soft tissue infections. Bacteriologic studies should be performed to deter­mine the causative organisms and their susceptibility to clindamycin. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of clindamycin hydrochloride and other antibacterial drugs, clindamycin hydrochloride should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacte­ria. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clindamycin hydrochloride capsules, USP are indicated in the treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible anaerobic bacteria. Clindamycin hydrochloride capsules, USP are also indicated in the treatment of serious infections due to susceptible strains of streptococci, pneumococci, and staphylococci. Because of the risk of colitis, as described in the WARNING box, before selecting clindamycin hydrochloride capsules, USP are the physician should consider the nature of the infection and the suitability of less toxic alternatives (e.g., erythromycin). To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of clindamycin hydrochloride capsules, USP and other antibacterial drugs, clindamycin hydrochloride capsules, USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. PHARMACOLOGY AND TOXICOLOGY Clindamycin Hydrochloride is a bacteriostatic antibiotic, which is 4 to 8 times more potent than Lincomycin. It has potent antibacterial activity to aerobic gram-positive bacterium, such as Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, Bacillus diphtheriae and Bacillus anthracis. It also has good antibacterial activity to anaerobic gram-negative bacterium. Bacteroides (including bacteroides fragilis) and Clostridium are morbidly susceptible to it. It binds exclusively to the 50'S subunit of sensitive bacterial ribosome and suppresses protein synthesis. Clindamycin is a bacteriostat, but can kill high sensitive bacterium at high concentration. Metronidazole is an anti-anaerobic bacterial, anti-trichomonal and anti-amebic agent. Combination of Clindamycin Hydrochloride and Metronidazole can kill Propionibacterium acnes, Pityrosporum ovale, and some other sensitive bacterium and vermiform mite, and can inhibit them from growing. As a result, it can reduce the creation of lipase, and prevent triacylglycerol from hydrolyzing into free fatty acid. INDICATIONS It is indicated for the treatment of acne (especially for the acne pustulosa, cystic acne), tympanitis, nasosinusitis, folliculitis, and other bacterial infection on skin. It is also indicated for the supportive treatment of seborrheic dermatitis and brandy nose.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION If significant diarrhea occurs during therapy, this antibiotic should be discontinued (see BOXED WARNING ). Adults: Serious infections - 150 to 300 mg every 6 hours. More severe infections - 300 to 450 mg every 6 hours. Pediatric Patients (for children who are able to swallow capsules): Serious infections - 8 to 16 mg/kg/day (4 to 8 mg/lb/day) divided into three or four equal doses. More severe infections - 16 to 20 mg/kg/day (8 to 10 mg/lb/day) divided into three or four equal doses. Clindamycin should be dosed based on total body weight regardless of obesity. To avoid the possibility of esophageal irritation, clindamycin hydrochloride capsules should be taken with a full glass of water. Clindamycin hydrochloride Capsules are not suitable for children who are unable to swallow them whole. The capsules do not provide exact mg/kg doses therefore it may be necessary to use the clindamycin palmitate oral solution in some cases. Serious infections due to anaerobic bacteria are usually treated with CLEOCIN PHOSPHATE ® Sterile Solution. However, in clinically appropriate circumstances, the physician may elect to initiate treatment or continue treatment with clindamycin hydrochloride capsules. In cases of β-hemolytic streptococcal infections, treatment should continue for at least 10 days. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION If significant diarrhea occurs during therapy, this antibacterial drug should be discontinued (see BOXED WARNING ). Administer clindamycin hydrochloride capsules with a full glass of water (6 to 8 ounces, approximately 200 to 250 mL) and at least 30 minutes before lying down to reduce the potential for esophageal irritation (See ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Adults : Serious infections – 150 to 300 mg every 6 hours. More severe infections – 300 to 450 mg every 6 hours. Pediatric Patients (who are able to swallow capsules): Serious infections – 8 to 16 mg/kg/day (4 to 8 mg/lb/day) divided into three or four equal doses. More severe infections – 16 to 20 mg/kg/day (8 to 10 mg/lb/day) divided into three or four equal doses. Clindamycin hydrochloride capsules are not suitable for pediatric patients who are unable to swallow them whole. Serious infections due to anaerobic bacteria are usu­ally treated with clindamycin injection. However, in clinically appropriate circum­stances, the physician may elect to initiate treatment or continue treatment with clindamycin hydrochloride capsules. In cases of β-hemolytic streptococcal infections, treat­ment should continue for at least 10 days. Pediatric Patients (for children who are able to swallow capsules): Serious infections – 8 to 16 mg/kg/day (4 to 8 mg/lb/day) divided into three or four equal doses. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION If significant diarrhea occurs during therapy, this antibiotic should be discontinued (see WARNING box). Adults: Serious infections —150 to 300 mg every 6 hours. Pediatric Patients: Serious infections - 8 to 16 mg/kg/day (4 to 8 mg/lb/day) divided into three or four equal doses. Serious infections due to anaerobic bacteria are usually treated with clindamycin injection. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For external use only. Drip 1~2 drops of Acnil to affected area, or dip some Acnil in cotton bud and apply to the affected area. It should be applied three times daily. Two weeks’ treatment constitutes a single therapeutic course. Repeat another therapeutic course if it is necessary.
Warnings: WARNINGS See BOXED WARNING Clostridioides difficile- Associated Diarrhea Clostridioides difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including clindamycin hydrochloride, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon, leading to overgrowth of C. difficile . C. difficile produces toxins A and B, which contribute to the development of CDAD. Hypertoxin producing strains of C. difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality, as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use. Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents. If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C. difficile may need to be discontinued. Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibiotic treatment of C. difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. Anaphylactic and Severe Hypersensitivity Reactions Anaphylactic shock and anaphylactic reactions have been reported (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Severe hypersensitivity reactions, including severe skin reactions such as toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), and Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), some with fatal outcome, have been reported (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). In case of such an anaphylactic or severe hypersensitivity reaction, discontinue treatment permanently and institute appropriate therapy. A careful inquiry should be made concerning previous sensitivities to drugs and other allergens. Nephrotoxicity - Clindamycin is potentially nephrotoxic and cases with acute kidney injury have been reported. Consider monitoring of renal function particularly in patients with pre-existing renal dysfunction or those taking concomitant nephrotoxic drugs. In case of acute kidney injury, discontinue clindamycin hydrochloride when no other etiology is identified. Usage in Meningitis - Since clindamycin does not diffuse adequately into the cerebrospinal fluid, the drug should not be used in the treatment of meningitis. WARNINGS See BOXED WARNING Clostridioides difficile- Associated Diarrhea Clostridioides difficile -associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including clindamycin hydrochloride, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Nephrotoxicity Clindamycin is potentially nephrotoxic and cases with acute kidney injury have been reported. Usage in Meningitis – Since clindamycin does not diffuse adequately into the cerebrospinal fluid, the drug should not be used in the treatment of meningitis. WARNINGS See BOXED WARNING Clostridioides difficile- Associated Diarrhea Clostridioides difficile- associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including clindamycin hydrochloride, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. WARNINGS See WARNING box. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including clindamycin hydrochloride, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Usage in Meningitis- Since clindamycin does not diffuse adequately into the cerebrospinal fluid, the drug should not be used in the treatment of meningitis. ADVERSE REACTIONS: A few instance of local irritation or burning sensation may be observed. occasionally during the treatment. Allergic reaction can be observed rarely. WARNINGS See BOXED WARNING Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including clindamycin hydrochloride, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Clindamycin hydrochloride is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to preparations containing clindamycin or lincomycin. CONTRAINDICATIONS Clindamycin hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to preparations containing clindamycin or lincomycin.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents. Therefore, it should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents. Clindamycin is metabolized predominantly by CYP3A4, and to a lesser extent by CYP3A5, to the major metabolite clindamycin sulfoxide and minor metabolite N-desmethylclindamycin. Therefore, inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 may increase plasma concentrations of clindamycin and inducers of these isoenzymes may reduce plasma concentrations of clindamycin. In the presence of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, monitor for adverse reactions. In the presence of strong CYP3A4 inducers such as rifampicin, monitor for loss of effectiveness. In vitro studies indicate that clindamycin does not inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2E1 or CYP2D6 and only moderately inhibits CYP3A4. Antagonism has been demonstrated between clindamycin and erythromycin in vitro . Because of possible clinical significance, these two drugs should not be administered concurrently. Therefore inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 may increase plasma concentrations of clindamycin and inducers of these isoenzymes may reduce plasma concentrations of clindamycin.

=== VANCOMYCIN HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection, USP is indicated for the treatment of serious or severe infections caused by susceptible strains of methicillin-resistant (β-lactam-resistant) staphylococci. It is indicated for penicillin-allergic patients, for patients who cannot receive or who have failed to respond to other drugs, including the penicillins or cephalosporins, and for infections caused by vancomycin-susceptible organisms that are resistant to other antimicrobial drugs. Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection, USP is indicated for initial therapy when methicillin-resistant staphylococci are suspected, but after susceptibility data are available, therapy should be adjusted accordingly. Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection, USP is effective in the treatment of staphylococcal endocarditis. Its effectiveness has been documented in other infections due to staphylococci, including septicemia, bone infections, lower respiratory tract infections, skin and skin structure infections. When staphylococcal infections are localized and purulent, antibiotics are used as adjuncts to appropriate surgical measures. Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection, USP has been reported to be effective alone or in combination with an aminoglycoside for endocarditis caused by S. viridans or S. bovis. For endocarditis caused by enterococci (e.g., E. faecalis), vancomycin has been reported to be effective only in combination with an aminoglycoside. Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection, USP has been reported to be effective for the treatment of diphtheroid endocarditis. Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection, USP has been used successfully in combination with either rifampin, an aminoglycoside, or both in early-onset prosthetic valve endocarditis caused by S. epidermidis or diphtheroids. Specimens for bacteriologic cultures should be obtained in order to isolate and identify causative organisms and to determine their susceptibilities to vancomycin. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection, USP and other antibacterial drugs, Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection, USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy . The parenteral form of vancomycin hydrochloride may be administered orally for treatment of antibiotic-associated pseudomembranous colitis produced by C. difficile and for staphylococcal enterocolitis. Parenteral administration of vancomycin hydrochloride alone is of unproven benefit for these indications. Vancomycin is not effective by the oral route for other types of infections. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection is indicated for the treatment of serious or severe infections caused by susceptible strains of methicillin-resistant (β-lactam-resistant) staphylococci. It is indicated for penicillin-allergic patients, for patients who cannot receive or who have failed to respond to other drugs, including the penicillins or cephalosporins, and for infections caused by vancomycin hydrochloride-susceptible organisms that are resistant to other antimicrobial drugs. Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection is indicated for initial therapy when methicillin-resistant staphylococci are suspected, but after susceptibility data are available, therapy should be adjusted accordingly. Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection is effective in the treatment of staphylococcal endocarditis. Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection has been reported to be effective alone or in combination with an aminoglycoside for endocarditis caused by S. bovis . faecalis ), Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection has been reported to be effective only in combination with an aminoglycoside. Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection has been reported to be effective for the treatment of diphtheroid endocarditis. Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection has been used successfully in combination with either rifampin, an aminoglycoside, or both in early-onset prosthetic valve endocarditis caused by S. Specimens for bacteriologic cultures should be obtained in order to isolate and identify causative organisms and to determine their susceptibilities to vancomycin hydrochloride. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection and other antibacterial drugs, Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. Vancomycin hydrochloride is not effective by the oral route for other types of infections. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection is a glycopeptide antibacterial indicated in adult and pediatric patients (neonates and older) for the treatment of: • Septicemia ( 1.1 ) • Infective Endocarditis ( 1.2 ) • Skin and Skin Structure Infections ( 1.3 ) • Bone Infections ( 1.4 ) • Lower Respiratory Tract Infections ( 1.5 ) To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection and other antibacterial drugs, Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. ( 1.6 ) 1.1 Septicemia Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection is indicated in adults and pediatric patients (neonates and older) for the treatment of septicemia due to: • Susceptible isolates of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and coagulase negative staphylococci. • Methicillin-susceptible staphylococci in penicillin-allergic patients, or those patients who cannot receive or who have failed to respond to other drugs, including penicillins or cephalosporins. 1.2 Infective Endocarditis Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection is indicated in adults and pediatric patients (neonates and older) for the treatment of infective endocarditis due to: • Susceptible isolates of MRSA. • Viridans group streptococci Streptococcus gallolyticus (previously known as Streptococcus bovis ), Enterococcus species and Corynebacterium species. For enterococcal endocarditis, use Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection in combination with an aminoglycoside. Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection is indicated in adults and pediatric patients (neonates and older) for the treatment of early-onset prosthetic valve endocarditis caused by Staphylococcus epidermidis in combination with rifampin and an aminoglycoside. 1.3 Skin and Skin Structure Infections Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection is indicated in adults and pediatric patients (neonates and older) for the treatment of skin and skin structure infections due to: • Susceptible isolates of MRSA and coagulase negative staphylococci. 1.4 Bone Infections Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection is indicated in adults and pediatric patients (neonates and older) for the treatment of bone infections due to: • Susceptible isolates of MRSA and coagulase negative staphylococci. 1.5 Lower Respiratory Tract Infections Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection is indicated in adults and pediatric patients (neonates and older) for the treatment of lower respiratory tract infections due to: • Susceptible isolates of MRSA • Methicillin-susceptible staphylococci in penicillin-allergic patients, or those patients who cannot receive or who have failed to respond to other drugs, including penicillins or cephalosporins. 1.6 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection and other antibacterial drugs, Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. faecalis ), vancomycin has been reported to be effective only in combination with an aminoglycoside. faecalis ), Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection, USP has been reported to be effective only in combination with an aminoglycoside. The parenteral form of Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection, USP may be administered orally for treatment of antibiotic-associated pseudomembranous colitis produced by C. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection, USP is indicated for the treatment of serious or severe infections caused by susceptible strains of methicillin-resistant ( β -lactam-resistant) staphylococci. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Vancomycin hydrochloride capsule is a glycopeptide antibacterial indicated in adult and pediatric patients (less than 18 years of age) for the treatment of: ( 1 ) Clostridioide difficile -associated diarrhea Enterocolitis caused by Staphylococcus aureus (including methicillin resistant strains) Limitations of Use : ( 1 ) ( 5.1 ) Parenteral administration of vancomycin is not effective for the above infections; therefore, vancomycin hydrochloride capsule must be given orally for these infections. Orally administered vancomycin hydrochloride capsules are not effective for other types of infections. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of vancomycin hydrochloride capsule and other antibacterial drugs, vancomycin hydrochloride capsule should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. (1) Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules are indicated for the treatment of Clostridioides difficil e -associated diarrhea. Vancomycin hydrochloride capsules are also used for the treatment of enterocolitis caused by Staphylococcus aureus (including methicillin-resistant strains) in adult and pediatric patients less than 18 years of age. Limitations of Use . Parenteral administration of vancomycin is not effective for the above infections; therefore, vancomycin hydrochloride capsules must be given orally for these infections. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of vancomycin hydrochloride capsules and other antibacterial drugs, vancomycin hydrochloride capsules should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution is administered orally for treatment of enterocolitis caused by Staphylococcus aureus (including methicillin-resistant strains) and antibiotic-associated pseudomembranous colitis caused by C. difficile . Parenteral administration of vancomycin is not effective for the above indications; therefore, Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution must be given orally for these infections. Orally administered Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution is not effective for other types of infection. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution and other antibacterial drugs, Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Infusion-related events are related to both the concentration and the rate of administration of vancomycin. Concentrations of no more than 5 mg/mL and rates of no more than 10 mg/min, are recommended in adults (see also age-specific recommendations). In selected patients in need of fluid restriction, a concentration up to 10 mg/mL may be used; use of such higher concentrations may increase the risk of infusion-related events. An infusion rate of 10 mg/min or less is associated with fewer infusion-related events (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Infusion-related events may occur, however, at any rate or concentration. Patients with Normal Renal Function Adults The usual daily intravenous dose is 2 g divided either as 500 mg every 6 hours or 1 g every 12 hours. Each dose should be administered at no more than 10 mg/min or over a period of at least 60 minutes, whichever is longer. Other patient factors, such as age or obesity, may call for modification of the usual intravenous daily dose. Pediatric patients The usual intravenous dosage of vancomycin is 10 mg/kg per dose given every 6 hours. Each dose should be administered over a period of at least 60 minutes. Close monitoring of serum concentrations of vancomycin may be warranted in these patients. Neonates In pediatric patients up to the age of 1 month, the total daily intravenous dosage may be lower. In neonates, an initial dose of 15 mg/kg is suggested, followed by 10 mg/kg every 12 hours for neonates in the 1st week of life and every 8 hours thereafter up to the age of 1 month. Each dose should be administered over 60 minutes. In premature infants, vancomycin clearance decreases as postconceptional age decreases. Therefore, longer dosing intervals may be necessary in premature infants. Close monitoring of serum concentrations of vancomycin is recommended in these patients. Patients with Impaired Renal Function and Elderly Patients Dosage adjustment must be made in patients with impaired renal function. In premature infants and the elderly, greater dosage reductions than expected may be necessary because of decreased renal function. Measurement of vancomycin serum concentrations can be helpful in optimizing therapy, especially in seriously ill patients with changing renal function. Vancomycin serum concentrations can be determined by use of microbiologic assay, radioimmunoassay, fluorescence polarization immunoassay, fluorescence immunoassay, or high-pressure liquid chromatography. If creatinine clearance can be measured or estimated accurately, the dosage for most patients with renal impairment can be calculated using the following table. The dosage of vancomycin hydrochloride for injection per day in mg is about 15 times the glomerular filtration rate in mL/min (see following table). DOSAGE TABLE FOR VANCOMYCIN IN PATIENTS WITH IMPAIRED RENAL FUNCTION (Adapted from Moellering et al. 1 ) Creatinine Clearance mL/min Vancomycin Dose mg/24 h 100 1,545 90 1,390 80 1,235 70 1,080 60 925 50 770 40 620 30 465 20 310 10 155 The initial dose should be no less than 15 mg/kg, even in patients with mild to moderate renal insufficiency. The table is not valid for functionally anephric patients. For such patients, an initial dose of 15 mg/kg of body weight should be given to achieve prompt therapeutic serum concentrations. The dose required to maintain stable concentrations is 1.9 mg/kg/24 hr. In patients with marked renal impairment, it may be more convenient to give maintenance doses of 250 to 1,000 mg once every several days rather than administering the drug on a daily basis. In anuria, a dose of 1,000 mg every 7 to 10 days has been recommended. When only serum creatinine is known, the following formula (based on sex, weight and age of the patient) may be used to calculate creatinine clearance. Calculated creatinine clearances (mL/min) are only estimates. The creatinine clearance should be measured promptly. Men: [Weight (kg) x (140 – age in years)] 72 x serum creatinine concentration (mg/dL) Women: 0.85 x above value The serum creatinine must represent a steady state of renal function. Otherwise, the estimated value for creatinine clearance is not valid. Such a calculated clearance is an overestimate of actual clearance in patients with conditions: (1) characterized by decreasing renal function, such as shock, severe heart failure, or oliguria; (2) in which a normal relationship between muscle mass and total body weight is not present, such as in obese patients or those with liver disease, edema, or ascites; and (3) accompanied by debilitation, malnutrition, or inactivity. The safety and efficacy of vancomycin administration by the intrathecal (intralumbar or intraventricular) routes have not been established. Intermittent infusion is the recommended method of administration. Compatibility with Other Drugs and IV Fluids The following diluents are physically and chemically compatible (with 4 g/L vancomycin hydrochloride): 5% Dextrose Injection, USP 5% Dextrose Injection and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Lactated Ringer’s Injection, USP 5% Dextrose and Lactated Ringer’s Injection Normosol ® -M and 5% Dextrose 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Isolyte ® E Good professional practice suggests that compounded admixtures should be administered as soon after preparation as is feasible. Vancomycin solution has a low pH and may cause physical instability of other compounds. Preparation and Stability At the time of use, reconstitute the vials of Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection, USP with Sterile Water for Injection to a concentration of 50 mg of vancomycin/mL (see following table for volume of diluent). Concentration/Vial Volume of Diluent 500 mg 10 mL 1 gram 20 mL After reconstitution, the vials may be stored in a refrigerator for 14 days without significant loss of potency. Reconstituted solutions of vancomycin (500 mg/10 mL) must be further diluted in at least 100 mL of a suitable infusion solution. For doses of 1 gram (20 mL), at least 200 mL of solution must be used. The desired dose diluted in this manner should be administered by intermittent IV infusion over a period of at least 60 minutes. Compatibility with Intravenous Fluids Solutions that are diluted with 5% Dextrose Injection or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection may be stored in a refrigerator for 14 days without significant loss of potency. Solutions that are diluted with the following infusion fluids may be stored in a refrigerator for 96 hours: 5% Dextrose Injection and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection USP Lactated Ringer’s Injection USP Lactated Ringer’s and 5% Dextrose Injection USP Normosol ® -M and 5% Dextrose Isolyte ® E Acetated Ringer’s Injection Vancomycin solution has a low pH and may cause chemical or physical instability when it is mixed with other compounds. Mixtures of solutions of vancomycin and beta-lactam antibiotics have been shown to be physically incompatible. The likelihood of precipitation increases with higher concentrations of vancomycin. It is recommended to adequately flush the intravenous lines between the administration of these antibiotics. It is also recommended to dilute solutions of vancomycin to 5 mg/mL or less. Although intravitreal injection is not an approved route of administration for vancomycin, precipitation has been reported after intravitreal injection of vancomycin and ceftazidime for endophthalmitis using different syringes and needles. The precipitates dissolved gradually, with complete clearing of the vitreous cavity over two months and with improvement of visual acuity. Parenteral drug products should be visually inspected for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. For Oral Administration Oral vancomycin is used in treating antibiotic-associated pseudomembranous colitis caused by C. difficile and for staphylococcal enterocolitis. Vancomycin is not effective by the oral route for other types of infections. The usual adult total daily dosage is 500 mg to 2 g given in 3 or 4 divided doses for 7 to 10 days. The total daily dose in children is 40 mg/kg of body weight in 3 or 4 divided doses for 7 to 10 days. The total daily dosage should not exceed 2 g. The appropriate dose may be diluted in 1 oz of water and given to the patients to drink. Common flavoring syrups may be added to the solution to improve the taste for oral administration. The diluted solution may be administered via a nasogastric tube. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Infusion-related events are related to both the concentration and the rate of administration of vancomycin hydrochloride for injection. Concentrations of no more than 5 mg per mL and rates of no more than 10 mg/min, are recommended in adults (see also age-specific recommendations). In selected patients in need of fluid restriction, a concentration up to 10 mg per mL may be used; use of such higher concentrations may increase the risk of infusion-related events. Patients With Normal Renal Function Adults The usual daily intravenous dose is 2 grams divided either as 500 mg every 6 hours or 1 gram every 12 hours. Pediatric Patients The usual intravenous dosage of vancomycin hydrochloride for injection is 10 mg/kg per dose given every 6 hours. DOSAGE TABLE FOR VANCOMYCIN HYDROCHLORIDE FOR INJECTION IN PATIENTS WITH IMPAIRED RENAL FUNCTION (Adapted from Moellering et al. 1 ) Creatinine Clearance mL/min Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection Dose mg/24 h 100 1,545 90 1,390 80 1,235 70 1,080 60 925 50 770 40 620 30 465 20 310 10 155 The initial dose should be no less than 15 mg/kg, even in patients with mild to moderate renal insufficiency. Men: [Weight (kg) x (140 - age in years)] 72 x serum creatinine concentration (mg/dL) Women: 0.85 x above value The serum creatinine must represent a steady state of renal function. The safety and efficacy of vancomycin hydrochloride for injection administration by the intrathecal (intralumbar or intraventricular) routes have not been established. Compatibility with Other Drugs and Intravenous Fluids The following diluents are physically and chemically compatible (with 4 grams per L vancomycin hydrochloride): 5% Dextrose Injection, USP 5% Dextrose Injection and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Lactated Ringer’s Injection, USP 5% Dextrose and Lactated Ringer’s Injection Normosol ® -M and 5% Dextrose 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Isolyte ® E Good professional practice suggests that compounded admixtures should be administered as soon after preparation as is feasible. Vancomycin hydrochloride for injection solution has a low pH and may cause physical instability of other compounds. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection in a diluted solution over 60 minutes or greater to reduce the risk of infusion reactions. • See full prescribing information for further important administration and preparation instructions ( 2.1 , 2.5 ) • Adult Patients: 2 g divided either as 0.5 grams (g) every 6 hours or 1 g every 12 hours (2.2) • Pediatric Patients (1 month and older): 10 mg/kg per dose given every 6 hours ( 2.3 ) • Neonates: See full prescribing information for recommended doses in neonates ( 2.3 ) • Patients with renal impairment: See full prescribing information for recommended doses in patients with renal impairment ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions To reduce the risk of infusion related adverse reactions, administer Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection in a diluted solution over 60 minutes or greater [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ) ]. Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection concentrations of no more than 5 mg/mL are recommended in adults [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )]. See also age-specific recommendations [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ) ]. In selected patients in need of fluid restriction, a concentration up to 10 mg/mL may be used [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. Administer Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection prior to intravenous anesthetic agents to reduce the risk of infusion related adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Administer Vancomycin Hydrochloride by a secure intravenous route of administration to avoid local irritation and phlebitis reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )]. The supplied lyophilized powder must be reconstituted and subsequently diluted prior to intravenous use [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )] . 2.2 Dosage in Adult Patients With Normal Renal Function The usual daily intravenous dose is 2 grams divided either as 500 mg every 6 hours or 1 g every 12 hours. Administer each dose over a period of 60 minutes or greater. 2.3 Dosage in Pediatric Patients With Normal Renal Function Pediatric Patients (Aged 1 month and older) The usual intravenous dosage of vancomycin is 10 mg/kg per dose given every 6 hours. Neonates (Up to 1 month old) In pediatric patients, up to the age of 1 month, the total daily intravenous dosage may be lower. In neonates, an initial dose of 15 mg/kg is suggested, followed by 10 mg/kg every 12 hours for neonates in the 1 st week of life and every 8 hours thereafter up to the age of 1 month. 2.4 Dosage in Patients With Renal Impairment Dosage adjustment must be made in patients with renal impairment. The initial dose should be no less than 15 mg/kg, in patients with any degree of renal impairment. Measure trough vancomycin serum concentrations to guide therapy, especially in seriously ill patients with changing renal function. For functionally anephric patients, an initial dose of 15 mg/kg of body weight should be given to achieve prompt therapeutic serum concentration. A dose of 1.9 mg/kg/24 hr should be given after the initial dose of 15 mg/kg. 2.5 Preparation of Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection for Intravenous Administration and Storage Instructions Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection must be reconstituted and further diluted. Reconstitution of the Lyophilized Powder and further dilution At the time of use, reconstitute the vials of Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection (lyophilized powder) with Sterile Water for Injection to a concentration of 50 mg of vancomycin/mL then further dilute with an infusion solution to a final concentration of 5 mg/mL (see Table 1 for the appropriate volumes). Discard any reconstituted solution remaining in the vial. Table 1 Volume of Sterile Water for Injection to be Added for Reconstitution and Volume of Infusion Solution to be Used for Further Dilution Vancomycin Strength per Vial Volume of Sterile Water for Injection for reconstitution a Volume of infusion solution b to further dilute to a final concentration of 5 mg/mL 750 mg 15 mL 150 mL 1.25 g 25 mL 250 mL 1.5 g 30 mL 300 mL a After reconstitution, the vials may be stored in a refrigerator for 14 days without significant loss of potency. b Use an infusion solution from the list of the compatible infusion solutions below [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )]. The desired dose diluted in this manner should be administered by intermittent IV infusion over a period of 60 minutes or greater. Discard reconstituted and diluted solutions 14 days after initial reconstitution. 2.6 Compatibility with Intravenous Fluids The following diluents are physically and chemically compatible with 5 g/L vancomycin hydrochloride: 5% Dextrose Injection, USP 5% Dextrose Injection and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Lactated Ringer’s Injection, USP Lactated Ringer’s and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Storage of Diluted Solutions: Solutions that are diluted with 5% Dextrose Injection, USP or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP may be stored in a refrigerator for 14 days without significant loss of potency. Solutions that are diluted with the following infusion fluids may be stored in a refrigerator for 96 hours: 5% Dextrose Injection and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Lactated Ringer’s Injection, USP Lactated Ringer’s and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP 2.7 Incompatibilities for Intravenous Use Vancomycin solution has a low pH and may cause chemical or physical instability when it is mixed with other compounds. Mixtures of solutions of vancomycin and beta-lactam antibacterial drugs have been shown to be physically incompatible. It is recommended to adequately flush the intravenous lines between the administration of these antibacterial drugs. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Infusion-related events are related to both the concentration and the rate of administration of vancomycin. Compatibility with Other Drugs and Intravenous Fluids The following diluents are physically and chemically compatible (with 4 g/L vancomycin hydrochloride): 5% Dextrose Injection, USP 5% Dextrose Injection and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP 5% Dextrose and Lactated Ringer's Injection Normosol ® -M and 5% Dextrose 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Isolyte ® E Good professional practice suggests that compounded admixtures should be administered as soon after preparation as is feasible. Concentration/Vial Volume of Diluent 500 mg 10 mL 1 g 20 mL After reconstitution, the vials may be stored in a refrigerator for 14 days without significant loss of potency. The desired dose diluted in this manner should be administered by intermittent intravenous infusion over a period of at least 60 minutes. Solutions that are diluted with the following infusion fluids may be stored in a refrigerator for 96 hours: 5% Dextrose Injection and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP Normosol ® -M and 5% Dextrose Injection Isolyte ® E Acetated Ringer's Injection Vancomycin solution has a low pH and may cause chemical or physical instability when it is mixed with other compounds. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The intent of the pharmacy bulk package for this product is for preparation of solutions for IV infusion only. Infusion-related events are related to both the concentration and the rate of administration of vancomycin. The dosage of vancomycin per day in mg is about 15 times the glomerular filtration rate in mL/min (see following table). 1 ) Creatinine Clearance mL/min Vancomycin Dose mg/24 hr 100 1,545 90 1,390 80 1,235 70 1,080 60 925 50 770 40 620 30 465 20 310 10 155 The initial dose should be no less than 15 mg/kg, even in patients with mild to moderate renal insufficiency. The serum creatinine must represent a steady state of renal function. Figure Compatibility with Other Drugs and IV Fluids The following diluents are physically and chemically compatible (with 4 g/L vancomycin hydrochloride): 5% Dextrose Injection, USP 5% Dextrose Injection and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP 5% Dextrose and Lactated Ringer's Injection Normosol ® -M and 5% Dextrose 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Isolyte ® E Good professional practice suggests that compounded admixtures should be administered as soon after preparation as is feasible. It is also recommended to dilute solutions of vancomycin to 5 mg per mL or less. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The intent of the pharmacy bulk package for this product is for preparation of solutions for intravenous infusion only. Preparation and Stability For Administration by Intravenous Drip Refer to Directions for Proper Use of a Pharmacy Bulk Package Bottle. CAUTION: NOT TO BE DISPENSED AS A UNIT. DIRECTIONS FOR PROPER USE OF PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE The container closure may be penetrated only one time after reconstitution, utilizing a suitable sterile dispensing set which allows measured distribution of the contents. Use of this product is restricted to a suitable work area, such as a laminar flow hood. Once this container closure has been punctured, withdrawal of the contents should be completed without delay. If prompt fluid transfer cannot be accomplished, discard the contents no later than 4 HOURS after initial closure puncture. This time limit should begin with the introduction of solvent for diluent into the Pharmacy Bulk Package. Do not add supplementary medication to Vancomycin for Injection, USP. Preparation and Stability 5 g Pharmacy Bulk Package bottle At the time of use, reconstitute by adding 100 mL of Sterile Water for Injection to the 5 g Pharmacy Bulk Package bottle of dry, sterile vancomycin powder. The resultant solution will contain vancomycin equivalent to 500 mg/10 mL. FURTHER DILUTION IS REQUIRED. Doses of 1 gram/20 mL must be further diluted in at least 200 mL of a suitable infusion solution. 10 g Pharmacy Bulk Package bottle At the time of use, reconstitute by adding 95 mL of Sterile Water for Injection, USP to the 10 g bottle of dry, sterile vancomycin powder. The resultant solution will contain vancomycin equivalent to 500 mg/5 mL (1 g/10 mL). AFTER RECONSTITUTION, FURTHER DILUTION IS REQUIRED. Reconstituted solutions of vancomycin (500 mg/5 mL) must be further diluted in at least 100 mL of a suitable infusion solution. For doses of 1 gram (10 mL), at least 200 mL of solution must be used. Concentrations of no more than 5 mg/mL and rates of no more than 10 mg/min are recommended in adults (see also age-specific recommendations). The initial dose should be no less than 15 mg/kg, even in patients with mild to moderate renal insufficiency. The dose required to maintain stable concentrations is 1.9 mg/kg/24 h. When only serum creatinine is known, the following formula (based on sex, weight, and age of the patient) may be used to calculate creatinine clearance. Compatibility with Other Drugs and IV Fluids The following diluents are physically and chemically compatible (with 4 g/L vancomycin hydrochloride): 5% Dextrose Injection, USP 5% Dextrose Injection and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP 5% Dextrose and Lactated Ringer's Injection 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Good professional practice suggests that compounded admixtures should be administered as soon after preparation as is feasible. After reconstitution, the vials may be stored in a refrigerator for 14 days without significant loss of potency. For doses of 750 mg (15 mL), at least 150 mL of solution must be used. For doses of 1.5 gram (30 mL), at least 300 mL of solution must be used. Solutions that are diluted with the following infusion fluids may be stored in a refrigerator for 96 hours: 5% Dextrose Injection and 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP Lactated Ringer's and 5% Dextrose Injection, USP Vancomycin solution has a low pH and may cause chemical or physical instability when it is mixed with other compounds. Image1.jpg Image2.jpg Image3.jpg 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • C. difficile- associated diarrhea: Adult Patients (18 years of age or greater): 125 mg orally 4 times daily for 10 days. ( 2.1 ) Pediatric Patients (less than 18 years of age): 40 mg/kg in 3 or 4 divided doses for 7 to 10 days. ( 2.2 ) • Staphylococcal enterocolitis: Adult Patients (18 years of age or greater): 500 mg to 2 g orally in 3 or 4 divided doses for 7 to 10 days. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Adults Vancomycin Hydrochloride Capsules USP, are used in treating C. difficile -associated diarrhea and staphylococcal enterocolitis. C. difficile- associated diarrhea: The recommended dose is 125 mg administered orally 4 times daily for 10 days. Staphylococcal enterocolitis: Total daily dosage is 500 mg to 2 g administered orally in 3 or 4 divided doses for 7 to 10 days. 2.2 Pediatric Patients(less than 18 years of age) For both C. difficile -associated diarrhea and staphylococcal enterocolitis, the usual daily dosage is 40 mg/kg in 3 or 4 divided doses for 7 to 10 days. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution is used in treating antibiotic-associated pseudomembranous colitis caused by C. difficile and staphylococcal enterocolitis. Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution is not effective by the oral route for other types of infections. The usual adult total daily dosage is 500 mg to 2 g administered orally in 3 or 4 divided doses for 7 to 10 days. Pediatric Patients The usual daily dosage is 40 mg/kg in 3 or 4 divided doses for 7 to 10 days.
Warnings: WARNINGS Infusion Reactions Rapid bolus administration (e.g., over several minutes) may be associated with exaggerated hypotension, including shock and rarely cardiac arrest. Vancomycin hydrochloride for injection should be administered in a diluted solution over a period of not less than 60 minutes to avoid rapid-infusion-related reactions. Stopping the infusion usually results in prompt cessation of these reactions. Nephrotoxicity Systemic vancomycin exposure may result in acute kidney injury (AKI). The risk of AKI increases as systemic exposure/serum levels increase. Monitor renal function in all patients, especially patients with underlying renal impairment, patients with co-morbidities that predispose to renal impairment, and patients receiving concomitant therapy with a drug known to be nephrotoxic. Ototoxicity Ototoxicity has occurred in patients receiving vancomycin hydrochloride for injection. It may be transient or permanent. It has been reported mostly in patients who have been given excessive doses, who have an underlying hearing loss, or who are receiving concomitant therapy with another ototoxic agent, such as an aminoglycoside. Vancomycin should be used with caution in patients with renal insufficiency because the risk of toxicity is appreciably increased by high, prolonged blood concentrations. Dosage of vancomycin hydrochloride for injection must be adjusted for patients with renal dysfunction (see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Severe Dermatologic Reactions Severe dermatologic reactions such as toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), and linear IgA bullous dermatosis (LABD) have been reported in association with the use of vancomycin. Cutaneous signs or symptoms reported include skin rashes, mucosal lesions, and blisters. Discontinue vancomycin hydrochloride for injection at the first appearance of signs and symptoms of TEN, SJS, DRESS, AGEP, or LABD. Clostridium Difficile A ssociated Diarrhea (CDAD) Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including vancomycin hydrochloride for injection, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C. difficile . C. difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD. Hypertoxin producing strains of C. difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality, as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use. Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents. If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C. difficile may need to be discontinued. Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibiotic treatment of C. difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. Hemorrhagic Occlusive Retinal Vasculitis (HORV) Hemorrhagic occlusive retinal vasculitis, including permanent loss of vision, occurred in patients receiving intracameral or intravitreal administration of vancomycin during or after cataract surgery. The safety and efficacy of vancomycin administered by the intracameral or the intravitreal route have not been established by adequate and well-controlled trials. Vancomycin is not indicated for the prophylaxis of endophthalmitis. Ototoxicity Ototoxicity has occurred in patients receiving vancomycin hydrochloride. Vancomycin hydrochloride should be used with caution in patients with renal insufficiency because the risk of toxicity is appreciably increased by high, prolonged blood concentrations. Severe Dermatologic Reactions Severe dermatologic reactions such as toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), and linear IgA bullous dermatosis (LABD) have been reported in association with the use of vancomycin hydrochloride. Clostridium Difficile Associated Diarrhea (CDAD) Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including vancomycin hydrochloride, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Hemorrhagic Occlusive Retinal Vasculitis (HORV) Hemorrhagic occlusive retinal vasculitis, including permanent loss of vision, occurred in patients receiving intracameral or intravitreal administration of vancomycin hydrochloride during or after cataract surgery. The safety and efficacy of vancomycin hydrochloride administered by the intracameral or the intravitreal route have not been established by adequate and well-controlled trials. Vancomycin hydrochloride is not indicated for the prophylaxis of endophthalmitis. Clostridium Difficile Associated Diarrhea (CDAD) Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including vancomycin hydrochloride for injection, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Vancomycin hydrochloride should be administered in a diluted solution over a period of not less than 60 minutes to avoid rapid-infusion-related reactions. Dosage of vancomycin hydrochloride must be adjusted for patients with renal dysfunction (see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Discontinue vancomycin hydrochloride at the first appearance of signs and symptoms of TEN, SJS, DRESS, AGEP, or LABD. Clostridium Difficile Associated Diarrhea (CDAD) Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection, USP, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Clostridioides difficile Associated Diarrhea (CDAD) Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including vancomycin hydrochloride for injection, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. difficile, and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. WARNINGS Nephrotoxicity Nephrotoxicity (e.g., reports of renal failure, renal impairment, blood creatinine increased) has occurred following oral vancomycin hydrochloride therapy in randomized controlled clinical trials, and can occur either during or after completion of therapy. The risk of nephrotoxicity is increased in patients over 65 years of age. In patients over 65 years of age, including those with normal renal function prior to treatment, renal function should be monitored during and following treatment with vancomycin oral solution to detect potential vancomycin induced nephrotoxicity. Ototoxicity Ototoxicity has occurred in patients receiving vancomycin. It has been reported mostly in patients who have been given excessive intravenous doses, who have an underlying hearing loss, or who are receiving concomitant therapy with another ototoxic agent, such as an aminoglycoside. Serial tests of auditory function may be helpful in order to minimize the risk of ototoxicity. Discontinue Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution at the first appearance of signs and symptoms of TEN, SJS, DRESS, AGEP, or LABD. Clostridium Difficile Associated Diarrhea (CDAD) Significant systemic absorption has been reported in some patients (e.g., patients with renal insufficiency and/or colitis) who have taken multiple oral doses of vancomycin hydrochloride for C. difficile -associated diarrhea. In these patients, serum vancomycin concentrations reached therapeutic levels for the treatment of systemic infections. Some patients with inflammatory disorders of the intestinal mucosa also may have significant systemic absorption of vancomycin. These patients may be at risk for the development of adverse reactions associated with higher doses of vancomycin oral solution; therefore, monitoring of serum concentrations of vancomycin may be appropriate in some instances, e.g., in patients with renal insufficiency and/or colitis or in those receiving concomitant therapy with an aminoglycoside antibacterial drug.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Vancomycin hydrochloride for injection is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to this antibiotic. CONTRAINDICATIONS Vancomycin hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to this antibiotic. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Injection is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to vancomycin. Hypersensitivity to vancomycin ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to vancomycin ( 4 ) Vancomycin Hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to vancomycin. CONTRAINDICATIONS Vancomycin Hydrochloride for Oral Solution is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to vancomycin.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Concomitant administration of vancomycin and anesthetic agents has been associated with erythema and histamine-like flushing (see Pediatric Use, PRECAUTIONS ) and anaphylactoid reactions (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Monitor renal function in patients receiving vancomycin and concurrent and/or sequential systemic or topical use of other potentially, neurotoxic and/or nephrotoxic drugs, such as amphotericin B, aminoglycosides, bacitracin, polymyxin B, colistin, viomycin, or cisplatin. Drug Interactions Concomitant administration of vancomycin hydrochloride and anesthetic agents has been associated with erythema and histamine-like flushing (see Pediatric Use - PRECAUTIONS ) and anaphylactoid reactions (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) . Monitor renal function in patients receiving vancomycin hydrochloride and concurrent and/or sequential systemic or topical use of other potentially, neurotoxic and/or nephrotoxic drugs, such as amphotericin B, aminoglycosides, bacitracin, polymixin B, colistin, viomycin, or cisplatin. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Anesthetic Agents : Concomitant administration of vancomycin and anesthetic agents has been associated with erythema and histamine-like flushing. ( 2.1 , 7.1 ) • Piperacillin/Tazobactam : Increased incidence of acute kidney injury in patients receiving concomitant piperacillin/tazobactam and vancomycin as compared to vancomycin alone. Monitor kidney function in patients ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Anesthetic Agents Concomitant administration of vancomycin and anesthetic agents has been associated with erythema and histamine-like flushing [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )]. 7.2 Piperacillin-Tazobactam Studies have detected an increased incidence of acute kidney injury in patients administered concomitant piperacillin/tazobactam and vancomycin as compared to vancomycin alone. Monitor kidney function in patients receiving concomitant piperacillin/tazobactam and vancomycin. No pharmacokinetic interactions have been noted between piperacillin/tazobactam and vancomycin. 7.3 Ototoxic and/or Nephrotoxic Drugs Concurrent and/or sequential systemic or topical use of other potentially, neurotoxic and/or nephrotoxic drugs requires more frequent monitoring of renal function. Drug Interactions Concomitant administration of vancomycin and anesthetic agents has been associated with erythema and histamine-like flushing (see Pediatric Use - PRECAUTIONS ) and anaphylactoid reactions (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Monitor renal function in patients receiving vancomycin and concurrent and/or sequential systemic or topical use of other potentially, neurotoxic and/or nephrotoxic drugs, such as amphotericin B, aminoglycosides, bacitracin, polymixin B, colistin, viomycin, or cisplatin. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug interaction studies have been conducted.

=== DOCOSANOL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Cold sore/fever blister treatment Purpose
Indications: Uses treats cold sores/fever blisters on the face or lips shortens healing time and duration of symptoms: tingling, pain, burning, and/or itching Uses treats cold sores/fever blisters on the face or lips shortens healing time and duration of symptoms: • tingling, pain, burning, and/or itching Indications and Usage
Dosage: Directions adults and children 12 years or over: wash hands before and after applying cream apply to affected area on the face or lips at the first sign of cold sore/fever blister (tingle). early treatment ensures the best results rub in gently but completely use 5 times a day until healed children under 12 years: ask a doctor Dosage and Admin Directions • adults and children 12 years or over: • wash hands before and after applying cream • apply to affected area on face or lips at the first sign of cold sore/fever blister (tingle). • early treatment ensures the best results • rub in gently but completely • use 5 times a day until healed • children under 12 years: ask a doctor Other information • store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F). • do not freeze Directions adults and children 12 years or over: wash hands before and after applying cream apply to affected area on face or lips at the first sign of cold sore/fever blister (tingle) early treatment ensures the best results rub in gently but completely use 5 times a day until healed children under 12 years: ask a doctor
Warnings: Warnings Allergy Alert: This product may cause a severe allergic reaction. Symptoms may include: hives facial swelling wheezing/difficulty shock rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. For external use only Warnings Allergy Alert This product may cause a severe allergic reaction. Symptoms may include: hives facial swelling wheezing/difficulty breathing shock rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Warnings Symptoms may cause: hives facial swelling wheezing/difficulty breathing shock rash if an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Symptoms may include: • hives • facial swelling • wheezing/difficulty breathing • shock • rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. For external use only Do not use if you are allergic to any ingredient in this product When using this product apply only to affected areas do not use in or near the eyes avoid applying directly inside your mouth do not share this product with anyone. This may spread infection. Stop use and ask a doctor if your cold sore gets worse or the cold sore is not healed within 10 days Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.

=== FEXOFENADINE HCL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antihistamine Purpose .Antihistamine Purpose Antihistamine Nasal decongestant
Indications: Uses reduces hives and relieves itching due to hives (urticaria). This product will not prevent hives or an allergic skin reaction from occurring. Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: ■ runny nose ■ itchy, watery eyes ■ sneezing ■ itching of the nose or throat Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: runny nose sneezing itchy, watery eyes itching of the nose or throat USE(S) temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: § runny nose § sneezing § itchy, watery eyes § itching of the nose or throat USE(S) temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: runny nose sneezing itchy, watery eyes itching of the nose or throat Use(s) temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: runny nose sneezing nasal congestion itchy, watery eyes itching of the nose or throat reduces swelling of nasal passages temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure temporarily restores freer breathing through the nose Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies:  runny nose  itchy, watery eyes  sneezing  itching of the nose or throat
Dosage: Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over: take one 180 mg tablet with water every once a day; do not take more than 1 tablet in 24 hours children under 12 years of age: do not use adults 65 years of age and older: ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease: ask a doctor Directions adults and children 12 years of age and take one 180 mg tablet with water once a day; do not take more than 1 tablet in 24 hours Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over take two 30 mg tablets with water every 12 hours; do not take more than 4 tablets in 24 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age take one tablet with water every 12 hours; do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours children under 6 years of age do not use adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor DIRECTIONS adults and children 12 years of age and over take one 180 mg tablet with water once a day; do not take more than 1 tablet in 24 hours children under 12 years of age do not use adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor DIRECTIONS 60 mg adults and children 12 years of age and over take one 60 mg tablet with water every 12 hours; do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours children under 12 years of age do not use adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor 180 mg adults and children 12 years of age and over take one 180 mg tablet with water once a day; do not take more than 1 tablet in 24 hours children under 12 years of age do not use adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over take one 60 mg tablet with water every 12 hours; do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours children under 12 years of age do not use adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor Directions do not divide, crush, chew or dissolve the tablet; swallow tablet whole adults and children 12 years of age and over take 1 tablet with a glass of water every 12 hours on an empty stomach; do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours children under 12 years of age do not use Adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over- take one 180 mg tablet with water once a day; do not take more than 1 tablet in 24 hours children under 12 years of age- do not use adults 65 years of age and older- ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease- ask a doctor Directions Directions (for 60mg) adults and children 12 years of age and over take one 60mg tablet with water every 12 hours; do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours children under 12 years of age do not use adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor Directions (for 180mg) adults and children 12 years of age and over take one 180mg tablet with water once a day; do not take more than 1 tablet in 24 hours children under 12 years of age do not use adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over take one 180 mg tablet with water once a day; do not take more than 1 tablet in 24 hours children under 12 years of age do not use adults 65 years of age ask a doctor and older consumers with kidney ask a doctor disease
Warnings: Severe Allergy Warning: Get emergency help immediately if you have hives along with any of the following symptoms:  trouble swallowing  dizziness or loss of consciousness  swelling of tongue  swelling in or around mouth  trouble speaking  wheezing or problems breathing  drooling These symptoms may be signs of anaphylactic shock. This condition can be life threatening if not treated by a health professional immediately. Symptoms of anaphylactic shock may occur when hives first appear or up to a few hours later Not a Substitute for Epinephrine. If your doctor has prescribed an epinephrine injector for “anaphylaxis” or severe allergy symptoms that could occur with your hives, never use this product as a substitute for the epinephrine injector. If you have been prescribed an epinephrine injector, you should carry it with you at all times. Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Warnings Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients. Ask a doctor before use if you have kidney disease. Your doctor should determine if you need a different dose. When using this product do not take more than directed do not take at the same time as aluminum or magnesium antacids do not take with fruit juices (see Directions) Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs. Seek medical help right away. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). WARNINGS Warnings Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product. if you have difficulty swallowing Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease thyroid disease glaucoma high blood pressure diabetes trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland kidney disease. When using this product do not take more than directed do not take at the same time as aluminum or magnesium antacids do not take with fruit juices (see Directions) the tablet coating may be seen in the stool (this is normal). Continue to takeas directed (see Directions). Stop use and ask doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs. symptoms do not improve within 7 days or are accompanied by a fever you get nervous, dizzy, or sleepless Pregnancy/Breastfeeding ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose, get medical help or contacta Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients

=== MINOCYCLINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Minocycline hydrochloride capsules USP are indicated in the treatment of the following infections due to susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms: Rocky Mountain spotted fever, typhus fever and the typhus group, Q fever, rickettsialpox and tick fevers caused by rickettsiae. Respiratory tract infections caused by Mycoplasma pneumoniae . Lymphogranuloma venereum caused by Chlamydia trachomatis . Psittacosis (Ornithosis) due to Chlamydophila psittaci . Trachoma caused by Chlamydia trachomatis , although the infectious agent is not always eliminated, as judged by immunofluorescence. Inclusion conjunctivitis caused by Chlamydia trachomatis . Nongonococcal urethritis, endocervical, or rectal infections in adults caused by Ureaplasma urealyticum or Chlamydia trachomatis . Relapsing fever due to Borrelia recurrentis . Chancroid caused by Haemophilus ducreyi . Plague due to Yersinia pestis . Tularemia due to Francisella tularensis . Cholera caused by Vibrio cholerae . Campylobacter fetus infections caused by Campylobacter fetus . Brucellosis due to Brucella species (in conjunction with streptomycin). Bartonellosis due to Bartonella bacilliformis . Granuloma inguinale caused by Klebsiella granulomatis . Minocycline is indicated for the treatment of infections caused by the following gram-negative microorganisms when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug: Escherichia coli . Klebsiella aerogenes Shigella species. Acinetobacter species. Respiratory tract infections caused by Haemophilus influenzae . Respiratory tract and urinary tract infections caused by Klebsiella species. Minocycline hydrochloride capsules USP are indicated for the treatment of infections caused by the following gram-positive microorganisms when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug: Upper respiratory tract infections caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae . Skin and skin structure infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus . (NOTE: Minocycline is not the drug of choice in the treatment of any type of staphylococcal infection.) When penicillin is contraindicated, minocycline is an alternative drug in the treatment of the following infections: Uncomplicated urethritis in men due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae and for the treatment of other gonococcal infections. Infections in women caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae . Syphilis caused by Treponema pallidum subspecies pallidum . Yaws caused by Treponema pallidum subspecies pertenue . Listeriosis due to Listeria monocytogenes . Anthrax due to Bacillus anthracis . Vincent's infection caused by Fusobacterium fusiforme . Actinomycosis caused by Actinomyces israelii . Infections caused by Clostridium species. In acute intestinal amebiasis, minocycline may be a useful adjunct to amebicides. In severe acne, minocycline may be useful adjunctive therapy. Oral minocycline is indicated in the treatment of asymptomatic carriers of Neisseria meningitidis to eliminate meningococci from the nasopharynx. In order to preserve the usefulness of minocycline in the treatment of asymptomatic meningococcal carriers, diagnostic laboratory procedures, including serotyping and susceptibility testing, should be performed to establish the carrier state and the correct treatment. It is recommended that the prophylactic use of minocycline be reserved for situations in which the risk of meningococcal meningitis is high. Oral minocycline is not indicated for the treatment of meningococcal infection. Although no controlled clinical efficacy studies have been conducted, limited clinical data show that oral minocycline hydrochloride has been used successfully in the treatment of infections caused by Mycobacterium marinum. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of minocycline hydrochloride capsules USP and other antibacterial drugs, minocycline hydrochloride capsules USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Minocycline hydrochloride extended-release tablets is a tetracycline-class drug indicated to treat only inflammatory lesions of non-nodular moderate to severe acne vulgaris in patients 12 years of age and older. 1.1 Indication Minocycline hydrochloride extended-release tablets is indicated to treat only inflammatory lesions of non-nodular moderate to severe acne vulgaris in patients 12 years of age and older. 1.2 Limitations of Use Minocycline hydrochloride extended-release tablets did not demonstrate any effect on non-inflammatory acne lesions. Safety of Minocycline hydrochloride extended-release tablets has not been established beyond 12 weeks of use. This formulation of minocycline has not been evaluated in the treatment of infections [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria as well as to maintain the effectiveness of other antibacterial drugs, Minocycline hydrochloride extended-release tablets should be used only as indicated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE EMROSI is indicated to treat inflammatory lesions (papules and pustules) of rosacea in adults. Limitations of Use This formulation of minocycline has not been evaluated in the treatment or prevention of infections. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria as well as to maintain the effectiveness of other antibacterial drugs, use EMROSI only as indicated. EMROSI is a tetracycline-class drug indicated to treat inflammatory lesions (papules and pustules) of rosacea in adults. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use This formulation of minocycline has not been evaluated in the treatment or prevention of infections. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and to maintain the effectiveness of other antibacterial drugs, use EMROSI only as indicated. ( 1 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Minocycline hydrochloride capsules, USP are indicated in the treatment of the following infections due to susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms: Rocky Mountain spotted fever, typhus fever and the typhus group, Q fever, rickettsialpox and tick fevers caused by rickettsiae. Minocycline is indicated for the treatment of infections caused by the following gram-negative microorganisms when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug: Escherichia coli. Klebsiella aerogenes Shigella species . Acinetobacter species . Minocycline hydrochloride capsules, USP are indicated for the treatment of infections caused by the following gram-positive microorganisms when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug: Upper respiratory tract infections caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae . Skin and skin structure infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus. (NOTE: Minocycline is not the drug of choice in the treatment of any type of staphylococcal infection). When penicillin is contraindicated, minocycline is an alternative drug in the treatment of the following infections: Uncomplicated urethritis in men due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae and for the treatment of other gonococcal infections. Vincent’s infection caused by Fusobacterium fusiforme . In acute intestinal amebiasis , minocycline may be a useful adjunct to amebicides. In severe acne , minocycline may be useful adjunctive therapy. Oral minocycline is not indicated for the treatment of meningococcal infection . Although no controlled clinical efficacy studies have been conducted, limited clinical data show that oral minocycline hydrochloride has been used successfully in the treatment of infections caused by Mycobacterium marinum . To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of minocycline hydrochloride capsules, USP and other antibacterial drugs, minocycline hydrochloride capsules, USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Yaws caused by Treponema pallidum subspecies pertenue. INDICATIONS and USAGE Minocycline hydrochloride capsules, USP are indicated in the treatment of the following infections due to susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms: • Rocky Mountain spotted fever, typhus fever and the typhus group, Q fever, rickettsialpox and tick fevers caused by rickettsiae. • Respiratory tract infections caused by Mycoplasma pneumoniae . • Lymphogranuloma venereum caused by Chlamydia trachomatis . • Psittacosis (Ornithosis) due to Chlamydophila psittaci. • Trachoma caused by Chlamydia trachomatis , although the infectious agent is not always eliminated, as judged by immunofluorescence. • Inclusion conjunctivitis caused by Chlamydia trachomatis . • Nongonococcal urethritis, endocervical, or rectal infections in adults caused by Ureaplasma urealyticum or Chlamydia trachomatis . • Relapsing fever due to Borrelia recurrentis . • Chancroid caused by Haemophilus ducreyi . • Plague due to Yersinia pestis . • Tularemia due to Francisella tularensis . • Cholera caused by Vibrio cholerae. • Campylobacter fetus infections caused by Campylobacter fetus. • Brucellosis due to Brucella species (in conjunction with streptomycin). • Bartonellosis due to Bartonella bacilliformis . • Granuloma inguinale caused by Klebsiella granulomatis. Minocycline is indicated for the treatment of infections caused by the following gram-negative microorganisms when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug: • Escherichia coli. • Enterobacter aerogenes. • Shigella species. • Acinetobacter species. • Respiratory tract infections caused by Haemophilus influenzae . • Respiratory tract and urinary tract infections caused by Klebsiella species. Minocycline hydrochloride capsules, USP are indicated for the treatment of infections caused by the following gram-positive microorganisms when bacteriologic testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to the drug: • Upper respiratory tract infections caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae . • Skin and skin structure infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus . (Note: Minocycline is not the drug of choice in the treatment of any type of staphylococcal infection.) When penicillin is contraindicated, minocycline is an alternative drug in the treatment of the following infections: • Uncomplicated urethritis in men due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae and for the treatment of other gonococcal infections. • Infections in women caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae . • Syphilis caused by Treponema pallidum subspecies pallidum . • Yaws caused by Treponema pallidum subspecies pertenue . • Listeriosis due to Listeria monocytogenes . • Anthrax due to Bacillus anthracis. • Vincent’s infection caused by Fusobacterium fusiforme . • Actinomycosis caused by Actinomyces israelii . • Infections caused by Clostridium species. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Minocycline hydrochloride capsules, USP are indicated in the treatment of the following infections due to susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms: Rocky Mountain spotted fever, typhus fever and the typhus group, Q fever, rickettsialpox and tick fevers caused by rickettsiae . Enterobacter aerogenes. Shigella species. Cholera caused by Vibrio cholerae. Bartonellosis due to Bartonella bacilliformis. Enterobacter aerogenes . Skin and skin structure infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus (Note: Minocycline is not the drug of choice in the treatment of any type of staphylococcal infection).
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION THE USUAL DOSAGE AND FREQUENCY OF ADMINISTRATION OF MINOCYCLINE DIFFER FROM THAT OF THE OTHER TETRACYCLINES. EXCEEDING THE RECOMMENDED DOSAGE MAY RESULT IN AN INCREASED INCIDENCE OF SIDE EFFECTS. Minocycline hydrochloride capsules may be taken with or without food (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Ingestion of adequate amounts of fluids along with capsule and tablet forms of drugs in the tetracycline-class is recommended to reduce the risk of esophageal irritation and ulceration. The capsules should be swallowed whole. For Pediatric Patients above 8 Years of Age Usual pediatric dose: 4 mg/kg initially followed by 2 mg/kg every 12 hours, not to exceed the usual adult dose. Adults The usual dosage of minocycline hydrochloride capsules is 200 mg initially followed by 100 mg every 12 hours. Alternatively, if more frequent doses are preferred, two or four 50 mg capsules may be given initially followed by one 50 mg capsule 4 times daily. Uncomplicated gonococcal infections other than urethritis and anorectal infections in men: 200 mg initially, followed by 100 mg every 12 hours for a minimum of 4 days, with post-therapy cultures within 2 to 3 days. In the treatment of uncomplicated gonococcal urethritis in men, 100 mg every 12 hours for 5 days is recommended. For the treatment of syphilis, the usual dosage of minocycline hydrochloride should be administered over a period of 10 to 15 days. Close follow-up, including laboratory tests, is recommended. In the treatment of meningococcal carrier state, the recommended dosage is 100 mg every 12 hours for 5 days. Mycobacterium marinum infections: Although optimal doses have not been established, 100 mg every 12 hours for 6 to 8 weeks have been used successfully in a limited number of cases. Uncomplicated urethral, endocervical, or rectal infection in adults caused by Chlamydia trachomatis or Ureaplasma urealyticum: 100 mg orally, every 12 hours for at least 7 days. Ingestion of adequate amounts of fluids along with capsule and tablet forms of drugs in the tetracycline class is recommended to reduce the risk of esophageal irritation and ulceration. The pharmacokinetics of minocycline in patients with renal impairment (CL CR < 80mL/min) have not been fully characterized. Current data are insufficient to determine if a dosage adjustment is warranted. The total daily dosage should not exceed 200 mg in 24 hours. However, due to the antianabolic effect of tetracyclines, BUN and creatinine should be monitored (see WARNINGS-Antianabolic Action ). 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of Minocycline hydrochloride extended-release tablets is approximately 1 mg/kg once daily for 12 weeks. Higher doses have not shown to be of additional benefit in the treatment of inflammatory lesions of acne, and may be associated with more acute vestibular side effects. The following table shows tablet strength and body weight to achieve approximately 1 mg/kg. Table 1: Dosing Table for Minocycline hydrochloride extended-release tablets Patient's Weight (lbs.) Patient's Weight (kg) Tablet Strength (mg) Actual mg/kg Dose 99 to 109 45 to 49 45 1 to 0.92 110 to 131 50 to 59 55 1.10 to 0.93 132 to 157 60 to 71 65 1.08 to 0.92 158 to 186 72 to 84 80 1.11 to 0.95 187 to 212 85 to 96 90 1.06 to 0.94 213 to 243 97 to 110 105 1.08 to 0.95 244 to 276 111 to 125 115 1.04 to 0.92 277 to 300 126 to 136 135 1.07 to 0.99 Minocycline hydrochloride extended-release tablets may be taken with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Ingestion of food along with Minocycline hydrochloride extended-release tablets may help reduce the risk of esophageal irritation and ulceration. In patients with renal impairment, the total dosage should be decreased by either reducing the recommended individual doses and/or by extending the time intervals between doses [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4 )] . The recommended dosage of Minocycline hydrochloride extended-release tablets is approximately 1 mg/kg once daily for 12 weeks. ( 2 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of EMROSI is one capsule taken orally, once daily. Higher doses have not shown to be of additional benefit in the treatment of rosacea. EMROSI may be taken with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Ingestion of food along with EMROSI may help to reduce the risk of esophageal irritation and ulceration. Swallow the capsule whole. Do not crush or chew the extended-release capsule. The recommended dosage of EMROSI is 40 mg orally, once daily. Uncomplicated urethral, endocervical, or rectal infection in adults caused by Chlamydia trachomatis or Ureaplasma urealyticum : 100 mg orally, every 12 hours for at least 7 days. The pharmacokinetics of minocycline in patients with renal impairment (CL CR <80 mL/min) have not been fully characterized. However, due to the antianabolic effect of tetracyclines, BUN and creatinine should be monitored (see WARNINGS - Antianabolic Action ). DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION THE USUAL DOSAGE AND FREQUENCY OF ADMINISTRATION OF MINOCY‑CLINE DIFFERS FROM THAT OF THE OTHER TETRACYCLINES. Minocycline hydrochloride capsules USP may be taken with or without food (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Adults The usual dosage of minocycline hydrochloride capsules USP is 200 mg initially followed by 100 mg every 12 hours. Uncomplicated gonococcal infections other than urethritis and anorectal infec‑tions in men: 200 mg initially, followed by 100 mg every 12 hours for a minimum of 4 days, with post-therapy cultures within 2 to 3 days. However, due to the antianabolic effect of tetracyclines, BUN and creatinine should be monitored (See WARNINGS ). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION THE USUAL DOSAGE AND FREQUENCY OF ADMINISTRATION OF MINOCYCLINE DIFFERS FROM THAT OF THE OTHER TETRACYCLINES.
Warnings: WARNINGS Tooth Development Minocycline hydrochloride capsules, like other tetracycline-class antibiotics, can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. If any tetracycline is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking these drugs, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. The use of drugs of the tetracycline class during tooth development (last half of pregnancy, infancy, and childhood to the age of 8 years) may cause permanent discoloration of the teeth (yellow-gray-brown). This adverse reaction is more common during long-term use of the drug but has been observed following repeated short-term courses. Enamel hypoplasia has also been reported. Tetracycline drugs, therefore, should not be used during tooth development unless other drugs are not likely to be effective or are contraindicated. Skeletal Development All tetracyclines form a stable calcium complex in any bone-forming tissue. A decrease in the fibula growth rate has been observed in premature human infants given oral tetracycline in doses of 25 mg/kg every six hours. This reaction was shown to be reversible when the drug was discontinued. Use in Pregnancy Results of animal studies indicate that tetracyclines cross the placenta, are found in fetal tissues, and can have toxic effects on the developing fetus (often related to retardation of skeletal development). Evidence of embryotoxicity has been noted in animals treated early in pregnancy. The safety of minocycline hydrochloride for use during pregnancy has not been established. Dermatologic Reaction Drug Rash with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) including fatal cases have been reported with minocycline use. Fixed drug eruptions have occurred with minocycline and other tetracyclines. Worsening severity upon subsequent administrations, including generalized bullous fixed drug eruption, has been observed with other tetracyclines (see ADVERSE REACTIONS). If severe skin reactions occur, discontinue minocycline hydrochloride immediately and institute appropriate therapy. Antianabolic Action The antianabolic action of the tetracyclines may cause an increase in blood urea nitrogen (BUN). While this is not a problem in those with normal renal function, in patients with significantly impaired function, higher serum levels of tetracycline may lead to azotemia, hyperphosphatemia, and acidosis. Under such conditions, monitoring of creatinine and BUN is recommended, and the total daily dosage should not exceed 200 mg in 24 hours (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). If renal impairment exists, even usual oral or parenteral doses may lead to systemic accumulation of the drug and possible liver toxicity. Photosensitivity Photosensitivity manifested by an exaggerated sunburn reaction has been observed in some individuals taking tetracyclines. This has been reported with minocycline. Central Nervous System Central nervous system side effects including lightheadedness, dizziness, or vertigo have been reported with minocycline therapy. Patients who experience these symptoms should be cautioned about driving vehicles or using hazardous machinery while on minocycline therapy. These symptoms may disappear during therapy and usually disappear rapidly when the drug is discontinued. Clostridium difficile-Associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile -associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including minocycline hydrochloride, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C. difficile . C. difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD. Hypertoxin producing strains of C. difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality, as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use. Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents. If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C. difficile may need to be discontinued. Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibiotic treatment of C. difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. Intracranial Hypertension Intracranial hypertension (IH, pseudotumor cerebri) has been associated with the use of tetracyclines including minocycline. Clinical manifestations of IH include headache, blurred vision, diplopia, and vision loss; papilledema can be found on fundoscopy. Women of childbearing age who are overweight or have a history of IH are at greater risk for developing tetracycline associated IH. Concomitant use of isotretinoin and minocycline should be avoided because isotretinoin is also known to cause pseudotumor cerebri. Although IH typically resolves after discontinuation of treatment, the possibility for permanent visual loss exists. If visual disturbance occurs during treatment, prompt ophthalmologic evaluation is warranted. Since intracranial pressure can remain elevated for weeks after drug cessation patients should be monitored until they stabilize. WARNINGS Tooth Development Minocycline hydrochloride, like other tetracycline-class antibiotics, can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. The safety of minocycline hydrochloride capsules for use during pregnancy has not been established. Worsening severity upon subsequent administrations, including generalized bullous fixed drug eruption, has been observed with other tetracyclines (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Clostridium difficile -Associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile- associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including minocycline hydrochloride, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Hypertoxin-producing strains of C. Intracranial Hypertension Intracranial hypertension (IH, pseudotumor cerebri) has been associated with the use of tetracyclines including minocycline hydrochloride. Women of childbearing age who are overweight or have a history of IH are at greater risk for developing tetracycline-associated IH. Concomitant use of isotretinoin and minocycline hydrochloride should be avoided because isotretinoin is also known to cause pseudotumor cerebri. Since intracranial pressure can remain elevated for weeks after drug cessation, patients should be monitored until they stabilize. Dermatologic Reaction Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) including fatal cases has been reported with minocycline use. Clostridium difficile -Associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile -associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including minocycline hydrochloride, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Hypertoxin- producing strains of C. If this syndrome is recognized, the drug should be discontinued immediately. If renal impairment exists, even usual oral or parenteral doses may lead to systemic accumulations of the drug and possible liver toxicity. Central Nervous System Central nervous system side effects including light-headedness, dizziness, or vertigo have been reported with minocycline therapy. Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with the use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including minocycline hydrochloride, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Intracranial Hypertension Intracranial hypertension (IH, pseudotumor cerebri) has been associated with the use of tetracyclines including minocycline hydrochloride capsules. Concomitant use of isotretinoin and minocycline hydrochloride capsules should be avoided because isotretinoin is also known to cause pseudotumor cerebri. Dermatologic Reaction Drug Rash with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) including fatal cases has been reported with minocycline use. Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including minocycline hydrochloride, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Antianabolic Action The antianabolic action of the tetracyclines may cause an increase in BUN.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS This drug is contraindicated in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any of the tetracyclines or to any of the components of the product formulation. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS This drug is contraindicated in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any of the tetracyclines. This drug is contraindicated in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any of the tetracyclines. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS EMROSI is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the tetracyclines [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Known hypersensitivity to any of the tetracyclines. ( 4 )
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Because tetracyclines have been shown to depress plasma prothrombin activity, patients who are on anticoagulant therapy may require downward adjustment of their anticoagulant dosage. Since bacteriostatic drugs may interfere with the bactericidal action of penicillin, it is advisable to avoid giving tetracycline-class drugs in conjunction with penicillin. Absorption of tetracyclines is impaired by antacids containing aluminum, calcium, or magnesium, and iron-containing preparations. Concurrent use of tetracyclines with oral contraceptives may render oral contraceptives less effective. Administration of isotretinoin should be avoided shortly before, during, and shortly after minocycline therapy. Each drug alone has been associated with pseudotumor cerebri (see WARNINGS ). Increased risk of ergotism when ergot alkaloids or their derivatives are given with tetracyclines. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Patients who are on anticoagulant therapy may require downward adjustment of their anticoagulant dosage. (7.1) The concurrent use of tetracycline and methoxyflurane has been reported to result in fatal renal toxicity. (7.3) To avoid contraceptive failure, female patients are advised to use a second form of contraceptive during treatment with minocycline. (7.5) 7.1 Anticoagulants Because tetracyclines have been shown to depress plasma prothrombin activity, patients who are on anticoagulant therapy may require downward adjustment of their anticoagulant dosage. 7.2 Penicillin Since bacteriostatic drugs may interfere with the bactericidal action of penicillin, it is advisable to avoid giving tetracycline-class drugs in conjunction with penicillin. 7.3 Methoxyflurane The concurrent use of tetracycline and methoxyflurane has been reported to result in fatal renal toxicity. 7.4 Antacids and Iron Preparations Absorption of tetracyclines is impaired by antacids containing aluminum, calcium or magnesium and iron-containing preparations. 7.5 Low Dose Oral Contraceptives In a multi-center study to evaluate the effect of Minocycline hydrochloride extended-release tablets on low dose oral contraceptives, hormone levels over one menstrual cycle with and without Minocycline hydrochloride extended-release tablets 1 mg/kg once-daily were measured. Based on the results of this trial, minocycline-related changes in estradiol, progestinic hormone, FSH and LH plasma levels, of breakthrough bleeding, or of contraceptive failure, cannot be ruled out. To avoid contraceptive failure, female patients are advised to use a second form of contraceptive during treatment with minocycline. 7.6 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions False elevations of urinary catecholamine levels may occur due to interference with the fluorescence test. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Anticoagulants Because tetracyclines have been shown to decrease plasma prothrombin activity, patients who are on anticoagulant therapy may require downward adjustment of their anticoagulant dosage. 7.2 Penicillin Because bacteriostatic drugs may interfere with the bactericidal action of penicillin, avoid giving EMROSI in conjunction with penicillin. 7.3 Antacids and Iron Preparations Absorption of tetracyclines is impaired by antacids containing aluminum, calcium or magnesium and iron-containing preparations. 7.4 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions False elevations of urinary catecholamine levels may occur due to interference with the fluorescence test. The concurrent use of tetracyclines and methoxyflurane has been reported to result in fatal renal toxicity. The concurrent use of tetracycline and methoxyflurane has been reported to result in fatal renal toxicity. Each drug alone has been associated with pseudotumor cerebri (See PRECAUTIONS ).

=== LACOSAMIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lacosamide injection is indicated for: Treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older (1.1) Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 4 years of age and older (1.2) 1.1 Partial-Onset Seizures Lacosamide injection is indicated for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older. Pediatric use information is approved for UCB, Inc.'s VIMPAT® (lacosamide) injection. However, due to UCB, Inc.'s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 1.2 Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures Lacosamide is indicated as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 4 years of age and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lacosamide injection is indicated for: Treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 17 years of age and older ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Partial-Onset Seizures Lacosamide injection is indicated for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 17 years of age and older. Pediatric use information is approved for UCB, Inc.’s VIMPAT ® (lacosamide) injection. However, due to UCB, Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lacosamide tablets are indicated for: • Treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older ( 1.1 ) • Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 4 years of age and older ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Partial-Onset Seizures Lacosamide tablets are indicated for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older. Additional pediatric use information is approved for UCB, Inc.’s VIMPAT ® (lacosamide) tablets. However, due to UCB, Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 1.2 Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures Lacosamide tablets are indicated as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 4 years of age and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lacosamide is indicated for: Treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older ( 1.1 ) Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 4 years of age and older ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Partial-Onset Seizures Lacosamide is indicated for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lacosamide tablets are indicated for: • Treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older (1.1) • Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 4 years of age and older (1.2) 1.1 Partial-Onset Seizures Lacosamide tablets are indicated for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lacosamide Injection is indicated for: Treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older ( 1.1 ) Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 4 years of age and older (1.2) 1.1 Partial-Onset Seizures Lacosamide Injection is indicated for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older. 1.2 Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures Lacosamide Injection is indicated as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 4 years of age and older. Additional pediatric use information is approved for UCB, Inc.’s VIMPAT® (lacosamide) tablets. However, due to UCB, Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information . 1.2 Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures Lacosamide tablet is indicated as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 4 years of age and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lacosamide tablets are indicated for: Treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older. (1.1) Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 4 years of age and older ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Partial-Onset Seizures Lacosamide tablets are indicated for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lacosamide tablets are indicated for: Treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older (1.1) 1.1 Partial-Onset Seizures Lacosamide tablets is indicated for the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults (17 years and older): Initial dosage for monotherapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures is 100 mg twice daily (2.1) Initial dosage for adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures is 50 mg twice daily (2.1) Maximum recommended dosage for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy is 200 mg twice daily (2.1) Pediatric Patients 4 years to less than 17 years : The recommended dosage is based on body weight and is administered orally twice daily (2.1) Increase dosage based on clinical response and tolerability, no more frequently than once per week (2.1) Injection: for intravenous use only when oral administration is temporarily not feasible; the recommended dosage is based on body weight and is administered two or three times daily over 15 to 60 minutes; obtaining ECG before initiation is recommended in certain patients (2.7, 5.3) Dose adjustment is recommended for severe renal impairment (2.4, 12.3) Dose adjustment is recommended for mild or moderate hepatic impairment; use in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended (2.5, 12.3) 2.1 Dosage Information The recommended dosage for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older and for adjunctive therapy for primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 4 years of age and older is included in Table 1. In pediatric patients 4 years to less than 17 years of age, the recommended dosing regimen is dependent upon body weight. Dosage should be increased based on clinical response and tolerability, no more frequently than once per week. Titration increments should not exceed those shown in Table 1. Table 1: Recommended Dosages for Partial-Onset Seizures (Monotherapy or Adjunctive Therapy) in Patients 4 years of age and Older, and for Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures (Adjunctive Therapy) in Patients 4 Years of Age and Older* Age and Body Weight Initial Dosage Titration Regimen Maintenance Dosage Adults (17 years and older) Monotherapy**: 100 mg twice daily (200 mg per day) Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) every week Monotherapy**: 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) Pediatric patients weighing at least 50 kg 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) every week Monotherapy**: 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) Increase by 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) every week 2 mg/kg to 4 mg/kg twice daily (4 mg/kg/day to 8 mg/kg/day) Pediatric patients weighing 11 kg to less than 30 kg 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) Increase by 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) every week 3 mg/kg to 6 mg/kg twice daily (6 mg/kg/day to 12 mg/kg/day) *when not specified, the dosage is the same for monotherapy for partial-onset seizures and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Oral and intravenous dosages are the same unless specified. **Monotherapy for partial-onset seizures only In adjunctive clinical trials in adult patients with partial-onset seizures, a dosage higher than 200 mg twice daily (400 mg per day) was not more effective and was associated with a substantially higher rate of adverse reactions [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) and Clinical Studies (14.2)] . Lacosamide Injection Dosage L acosamide injection may be used when oral administration is temporarily not feasible [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) and Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. L acosamide injection can be administered intravenously to adult and pediatric patients weighing 11 kg or more with the same dosing regimens described for oral dosing. For pediatric patients weighing less than 6 kg, L acosamide injection may be initiated with a dose of 0.66 mg/kg three times daily (see Table 1). The clinical study experience of intravenous L acosamide is limited to 5 days of consecutive treatment. Pediatric use information is approved for UCB, Inc.'s VIMPAT® (lacosamide) injection. However, due to UCB, Inc.'s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.2 Alternate Initial Dosage Information to Achieve the Maintenance Dosage in a Shorter Timeframe For monotherapy and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures in patients 17 years of age and older and for adjunctive therapy for primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 17 years of age and older, an alternate initial dosing regimen for week 1 (e.g., including a loading dose and/or a higher initial dosage) may be administered in patients for whom achieving the recommended maintenance dosage in a shorter timeframe is clinically indicated (see Table 2). The alternate initial dosage regimen should be continued for one week. Lacosamide injection may then be titrated based on clinical response and tolerability, no more frequently than once per week, if needed. The loading dose should be administered with medical supervision because of the possibility of increased incidence of adverse reactions, including central nervous system (CNS) and cardiovascular adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3), Adverse Reactions (6.1), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Titration increments should not exceed those shown in Table 2. Table 2: Alternate Initial Dosing Regimen to Achieve the Maintenance Dosage in a Shorter Timeframe if Clinically Indicated* Age and Body Weight Alternate Initial Dosage Titration Regimen Maintenance Dosage Adults (17 years and older) Single loading dose: 200 mg 12 hours later initiate: 100 mg twice daily (200 mg per day) Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) at weekly intervals, if needed Monotherapy**: 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) *when not specified, the dosage is the same for monotherapy for partial-onset seizures and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures. **Monotherapy for partial-onset seizures only Pediatric use information is approved for UCB, Inc.'s VIMPAT® (lacosamide) injection. 2.3 Converting From a Single Antiepileptic (AED) to Lacosamide Monotherapy for the Treatment of Partial-Onset Seizures For patients who are already on a single AED and will convert to lacosamide monotherapy, withdrawal of the concomitant AED should not occur until the therapeutic dosage of lacosamide is achieved and has been administered for at least 3 days. A gradual withdrawal of the concomitant AED over at least 6 weeks is recommended. 2.4 Dosage Information for Patients with Renal Impairment For patients with mild to moderate renal impairment, no dosage adjustment is necessary. For patients with severe renal impairment [creatinine clearance (CL CR ) less than 30 mL/min as estimated by the Cockcroft-Gault equation for adults; CL CR less than 30 mL/min/1.73m 2 as estimated by the Schwartz equation for pediatric patients] or end-stage renal disease, a reduction of 25% of the maximum dosage is recommended. In all patients with renal impairment, dose initiation and titration should be based on clinical response and tolerability. Hemodialysis Lacosamide is effectively removed from plasma by hemodialysis. Following a 4-hour hemodialysis treatment, dosage supplementation of up to 50% should be considered. Concomitant Strong CYP3A4 or CYP2C9 Inhibitors Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with renal impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.6), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 2.5 Dosage Information for Patients with Hepatic Impairment For patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment, a reduction of 25% of the maximum dosage is recommended. The dose initiation and titration should be based on clinical response and tolerability in patients with hepatic impairment. Lacosamide use is not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment. Concomitant Strong CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 Inhibitors Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with hepatic impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.7), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 2.7 Preparation and Administration Information for Lacosamide Injection Preparation Lacosamide injection can be administered intravenously without further dilution or may be mixed with diluents listed below. The diluted solution should not be stored for more than 4 hours at room temperature. Diluents: Sodium Chloride Injection 0.9% (w/v) Dextrose Injection 5% (w/v) Lactated Ringer's Injection Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Product with particulate matter or discoloration should not be used. Lacosamide injection is for single-dose only. Any unused portion of lacosamide injection should be discarded. Administration The recommended infusion duration is 30 to 60 minutes; however, infusions as rapid as 15 minutes can be administered in adults if required [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Infusion durations less than 30 minutes are generally not recommended in pediatric patients [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Intravenous infusion of lacosamide may cause bradycardia, AV blocks, and ventricular tachyarrhythmia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] . Obtaining an ECG before beginning lacosamide and after lacosamide is titrated to steady-state maintenance dose is recommended in patients with underlying proarrhythmic conditions or on concomitant medications that affect cardiac conduction [see Drug Interactions (7.2)] . Storage and Stability The diluted solution should not be stored for more than 4 hours at room temperature. 2.8 Discontinuation of Lacosamide When discontinuing lacosamide, a gradual withdrawal over at least 1 week is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults (17 years and older): Initial dosage for monotherapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures is 100 mg twice daily ( 2.1 ) Initial dosage for adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures is 50 mg twice daily ( 2.1 ) Maximum recommended dosage for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy is 200 mg twice daily ( 2.1 ) Increase dosage based on clinical response and tolerability, no more frequently than once per week ( 2.1 ) Injection: for intravenous use only when oral administration is temporarily not feasible; the recommended dosage is administered two or three times daily over 15 to 60 minutes; obtaining ECG before initiation is recommended in certain patients ( 2.6 , 5.3 ) Dose adjustment is recommended for severe renal impairment ( 2.3 , 12.3 ) Dose adjustment is recommended for mild or moderate hepatic impairment; use in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended ( 2.4 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Dosage Information The recommended dosage for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures in 17 years of age and older is included in Table 1. Table 1: Recommended Dosages for Partial-Onset Seizures (Monotherapy or Adjunctive Therapy) in Patients 17 Years of Age and Older when not specified, the dosage is the same for monotherapy for partial-onset seizures and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures Age and Body Weight Initial Dosage Titration Regimen Maintenance Dosage Adults (17 years and older) Monotherapy Monotherapy for partial-onset seizures only : 100 mg twice daily (200 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) every week Monotherapy : 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) Alternate Initial Dosage: 200 mg single loading dose, followed 12 hours later by 100 mg twice daily In adjunctive clinical trials in adult patients with partial-onset seizures, a dosage higher than 200 mg twice daily (400 mg per day) was not more effective and was associated with a substantially higher rate of adverse reactions [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) and Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Lacosamide Injection Dosage Lacosamide injection may be used when oral administration is temporarily not feasible [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) and Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Lacosamide injection can be administered intravenously to adult patients with the same dosing regimens described for oral dosing. The clinical study experience of intravenous lacosamide is limited to 5 days of consecutive treatment. Loading Dose in Adult Patients (17 Years and Older) Lacosamide injection may be initiated in adult patients with a single loading dose of 200 mg, followed approximately 12 hours later by 100 mg twice daily (200 mg per day). The maintenance dose regimen should be continued for one week. Lacosamide can then be titrated as recommended in Table 1. The adult loading dose should be administered with medical supervision because of the increased incidence of CNS adverse reactions [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. The use of a loading dose in pediatric patients has not been studied. Pediatric use information is approved for UCB, Inc.’s VIMPAT ® (lacosamide) injection. However, due to UCB, Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information. 2.2 Converting From a Single Antiepileptic (AED) to Lacosamide Monotherapy for the Treatment of Partial-Onset Seizures For patients who are already on a single AED and will convert to lacosamide monotherapy, withdrawal of the concomitant AED should not occur until the therapeutic dosage of lacosamide is achieved and has been administered for at least 3 days. 2.3 Dosage Information for Patients with Renal Impairment For patients with mild to moderate renal impairment, no dosage adjustment is necessary. In all patients with renal impairment, the dose titration should be performed with caution. Concomitant Strong CYP3A4 or CYP2C9 Inhibitors Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with renal impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 [see Drug Interactions (7.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.4 Dosage Information for Patients with Hepatic Impairment For patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment, a reduction of 25% of the maximum dosage is recommended. The dose titration should be performed with caution in patients with hepatic impairment. Concomitant Strong CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 Inhibitors Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with hepatic impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 [see Drug Interactions (7.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.7) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.6 Preparation and Administration Information for Lacosamide Injection Preparation Lacosamide injection can be administered intravenously without further dilution or may be mixed with diluents listed below. Diluents: Sodium Chloride Injection 0.9% (w/v) Dextrose Injection 5% (w/v) Lactated Ringer’s Injection Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Administration The recommended infusion duration is 30 to 60 minutes; however, infusions as rapid as 15 minutes can be administered in adults if required [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Infusion durations less than 30 minutes are generally not recommended in pediatric patients [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Intravenous infusion of lacosamide may cause bradycardia, AV blocks, and ventricular tachyarrhythmia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Obtaining an ECG before beginning lacosamide and after lacosamide is titrated to steady-state maintenance dose is recommended in patients with underlying proarrhythmic conditions or on concomitant medications that affect cardiac conduction [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ] . 2.7 Discontinuation of Lacosamide When discontinuing lacosamide injection, a gradual withdrawal over at least 1 week is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Adults (17 years and older): o Initial dosage for monotherapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures is 100 mg twice daily ( 2.1 ) o Initial dosage for adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures is 50 mg twice daily ( 2.1 ) o Maximum recommended dosage for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy is 200 mg twice daily ( 2.1 ) • Pediatric Patients 4 years to less than 17 years: The recommended dosage is based on body weight and is administered orally twice daily ( 2.1 ) • Increase dosage based on clinical response and tolerability, no more frequently than once per week ( 2.1 ) • Dose adjustment is recommended for severe renal impairment ( 2.4 , 12.3 ) • Dose adjustment is recommended for mild or moderate hepatic impairment; use in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended ( 2.5 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Dosage Information The recommended dosage for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older and for adjunctive therapy for primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 4 years of age and older is included in Table 1. In pediatric patients, the recommended dosing regimen is dependent upon body weight. Table 1: Recommended Dosages for Partial-Onset Seizures (Monotherapy or Adjunctive Therapy) in Patients 4 Years of age and Older, and for Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures (Adjunctive Therapy) in Patients 4 Years of Age and Older* Age and Body Weight Initial Dosage Titration Regimen Maintenance Dosage Adults (17 years and older) Monotherapy **: 100 mg twice daily (200 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy : 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) every week Monotherapy **: 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy : 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) Pediatric patients weighing at least 50 kg 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) I ncrease by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) every week Monotherapy** : 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy : 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) Increase by 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) every week 2 mg/kg to 4 mg/kg twice daily (4 mg/kg/day to 8 mg/kg/day) Pediatric patients weighing 11 kg to less than 30 kg 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) Increase by 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) every week 3 mg/kg to 6 mg/kg twice daily (6 mg/kg/day to 12 mg/kg/day) *when not specified, the dosage is the same for monotherapy for partial-onset seizures and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures. **Monotherapy for partial-onset seizures only In adjunctive clinical trials in adult patients with partial-onset seizures, a dosage higher than 200 mg twice daily (400 mg per day) was not more effective and was associated with a substantially higher rate of adverse reactions [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. Additional pediatric use information is approved for UCB, Inc.’s VIMPAT ® (lacosamide) tablets. However, due to UCB, Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. Lacosamide tablets may then be titrated based on clinical response and tolerability, no more frequently than once per week, if needed. The loading dose should be administered with medical supervision because of the possibility of increased incidence of adverse reactions, including central nervous system (CNS) and cardiovascular adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.3 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. **Monotherapy for partial-onset seizures only Additional pediatric use information is approved for UCB, Inc.’s VIMPAT® (lacosamide) tablets. 2.3 Converting From a Single Antiepileptic (AED) to Lacosamide Tablets Monotherapy for the Treatment of Partial-Onset Seizures For patients who are already on a single AED and will convert to lacosamide tablets monotherapy, withdrawal of the concomitant AED should not occur until the therapeutic dosage of lacosamide tablets are achieved and has been administered for at least 3 days. Hemodialysis Lacosamide tablets are effectively removed from plasma by hemodialysis. Concomitant Strong CYP3A4 or CYP2C9 Inhibitors Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with renal impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Lacosamide tablets use is not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment. Concomitant Strong CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 Inhibitors Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with hepatic impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2.6 Administration Instructions for Lacosamide Tablets Lacosamide tablets may be taken with or without food. Lacosamide tablets should be swallowed whole with liquid. Do not divide lacosamide tablets. 2.8 Discontinuation of Lacosamide Tablets When discontinuing lacosamide tablets, a gradual withdrawal over at least 1 week is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults (17 years and older): Initial dosage for monotherapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures is 100 mg twice daily ( 2.1 ) Initial dosage for adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures is 50 mg twice daily ( 2.1 ) Maximum recommended dosage for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy is 200 mg twice daily ( 2.1 ) Pediatric Patients 1 month to less than 17 years: The recommended dosage is based on body weight and is administered orally twice daily ( 2.1 ) Increase dosage based on clinical response and tolerability, no more frequently than once per week ( 2.1 ) Injection: for intravenous use only when oral administration is temporarily not feasible; the recommended dosage is based on body weight and is administered two or three times daily over 15 to 60 minutes; obtaining ECG before initiation is recommended in certain patients ( 2.7 , 5.3 ) Dose adjustment is recommended for severe renal impairment ( 2.4 , 12.3 ) Dose adjustment is recommended for mild or moderate hepatic impairment; use in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended ( 2.5 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Dosage Information The recommended dosage for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures in patients 1 month of age and older and for adjunctive therapy for primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 4 years of age and older is included in Table 1. Table 1: Recommended Dosages for Partial-Onset Seizures (Monotherapy or Adjunctive Therapy) in Patients 1 Month and Older, and for Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures (Adjunctive Therapy) in Patients 4 Years of Age and Older * *when not specified, the dosage is the same for monotherapy for partial-onset seizures and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures. **Monotherapy for partial-onset seizures only ± indicated only for partial-onset seizures Age and Body Weight Initial Dosage Titration Regimen Maintenance Dosage Adults (17 years and older) Monotherapy**: 100 mg twice daily (200 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) every week Monotherapy**: 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) Pediatric patients weighing at least 50 kg 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) every week Monotherapy**: 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) Increase by 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) every week 2 mg/kg to 4 mg/kg twice daily (4 mg/kg/day to 8 mg/kg/day) Pediatric patients weighing 11 kg to less than 30 kg 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) Increase by 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) every week 3 mg/kg to 6 mg/kg twice daily (6 mg/kg/day to 12 mg/kg/day) Pediatric patients weighing 6 kg to less than 11 kg ± Pediatric patients weighing less than 6kg ± Intravenous: 0.66 mg/kg three times daily (2 mg/kg/day) Intravenous: Increase by 0.66 mg/kg three times daily (2 mg/kg/day) every week Intravenous: 2.5 mg/kg to 5 mg/kg three times daily (7.5 mg/kg/day to 15 mg/kg/day) In adjunctive clinical trials in adult patients with partial-onset seizures, a dosage higher than 200 mg twice daily (400 mg per day) was not more effective and was associated with a substantially higher rate of adverse reactions [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . Lacosamide Injection Dosage Lacosamide injection may be used when oral administration is temporarily not feasible [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Lacosamide injection can be administered intravenously to adult and pediatric patients weighing 6 kg or more with the same dosing regimens described for oral dosing. For pediatric patients weighing less than 6 kg, lacosamide injection may be initiated with a dose of 0.66 mg/kg three times daily (see Table 1). 2.2 Alternate Initial Dosage Information For monotherapy and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures in patients 17 years of age and older and for adjunctive therapy for primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 17 years of age and older, an alternate initial dosing regimen for week 1 (e.g., including a loading dose and/or a higher initial dosage) may be administered in patients for whom achieving the recommended maintenance dosage in a shorter timeframe is clinically indicated (see Table 2). Table 2: Alternate Initial Dosing Regimen to Achieve the Maintenance Dosage in a Shorter Timeframe if Clinically Indicated * * when not specified, the dosage is the same for monotherapy for partial-onset seizures and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures. ** Monotherapy for partial-onset seizures only Age and Body Weight Alternate Initial Dosage Titration Regimen Maintenance Dosage Adults (17 years and older) Single loading dose: 200 mg 12 hours later initiate: 100 mg twice daily (200 mg per day) Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) at weekly intervals, if needed Monotherapy ** : 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) Pediatric use information is approved for UCB, Inc.'s VIMPAT ® (lacosamide) injection. Concomitant Strong CYP3A4 or CYP2C9 Inhibitors Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with renal impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Concomitant Strong CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 Inhibitors Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with hepatic impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Administration The recommended infusion duration is 30 to 60 minutes; however, infusions as rapid as 15 minutes can be administered in adults if required [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Infusion durations less than 30 minutes are generally not recommended in pediatric patients [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . Intravenous infusion of lacosamide may cause bradycardia, AV blocks, and ventricular tachyarrhythmia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Obtaining an ECG before beginning lacosamide and after lacosamide is titrated to steady-state maintenance dose is recommended in patients with underlying proarrhythmic conditions or on concomitant medications that affect cardiac conduction [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )] . 2.8 Discontinuation of Lacosamide When discontinuing lacosamide, a gradual withdrawal over at least 1 week is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Adults (17 years and older): o Initial dosage for monotherapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures is 100 mg twice daily (2.1) o Initial dosage for adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures is 50 mg twice daily (2.1) o Maximum recommended dosage for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy is 200 mg twice daily (2.1) • Pediatric Patients 4 years to less than 17 years: The recommended dosage is based on body weight and is administered orally twice daily (2.1) • Increase dosage based on clinical response and tolerability, no more frequently than once per week (2.1) • Dose adjustment is recommended for severe renal impairment (2.4, 12.3) • Dose adjustment is recommended for mild or moderate hepatic impairment; use in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended (2.5, 12.3) 2.1 Dosage Information The recommended dosage for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older and for adjunctive therapy for primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 4 years of age and older and for adjunctive therapy for primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 4 years of age and older is included in Table 1. Table 1: Recommended Dosages for Partial-Onset Seizures (Monotherapy or Adjunctive Therapy) in Patients 4 Years of Age and Older, and for Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures (Adjunctive Therapy) in Patients 4 Years of Age and Older, and for Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures (Adjunctive Therapy) in Patients 4 Years of Age and Older* Age and Body Weight Initial Dosage Titration Regimen Maintenance Dosage Adults (17 years and older) Monotherapy**: 100 mg twice daily (200 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) every week Monotherapy**: 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) Pediatric patients weighing at least 50 kg Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) every week Monotherapy**: 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) Increase by 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) every week 2 mg/kg to 4 mg/kg twice daily (4 mg/kg/day to 8 mg/kg/day) Pediatric patients weighing 11 kg to less than 30 kg 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) Increase by 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) every week 3 mg/kg to 6 mg/kg twice daily (6 mg/kg/day to 12 mg/kg/day) * when not specified, the dosage is the same for monotherapy for partial-onset seizures and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures. ** Monotherapy for partial-onset seizures only In adjunctive clinical trials in adult patients with partial-onset seizures, a dosage higher than 200 mg twice daily (400 mg per day) was not more effective and was associated with a substantially higher rate of adverse reactions [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) and Clinical Studies (14.2)]. Loading Dose in Adult Patients (17 Years and Older) Lacosamide tablets may be initiated in adult patients with a single loading dose of 200 mg, followed approximately 12 hours later by 100 mg twice daily (200 mg per day). Lacosamide tablets can then be titrated as recommended in Table 1. The adult loading dose should be administered with medical supervision because of the increased incidence of CNS adverse reactions [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2.2 Alternate Initial Dosage Information to Achieve the Maintenance Dosage in a Shorter Timeframe For monotherapy and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures in patients 17 years of age and older, an alternate initial dosing regimen for week 1 (e.g., including a loading dose and/or a higher initial dosage) may be administered in patients for whom achieving the recommended maintenance dosage in a shorter timeframe is clinically indicated (see Table 2). Lacosamide may then be titrated based on clinical response and tolerability, no more frequently than once per week, if needed. Table 2: Alternate Initial Dosing Regimen to Achieve the Maintenance Dosage in a Shorter Timeframe if Clinically Indicated* Age and Body Weight Alternate Initial Dosage Titration Regimen Maintenance Dosage Adults (17 years and older) Single loading dose: 200 mg 12 hours later initiate : 100 mg twice daily (200 mg per day) Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) at weekly intervals, if needed Monotherapy**: 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) * when not specified, the dosage is the same for monotherapy for partial-onset seizures and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures **Monotherapy for partial-onset seizures only Additional pediatric use information is approved for UCB, Inc.’s VIMPAT® (lacosamide) tablets. 2.3 Converting From a Single Antiepileptic (AED) to Lacosamide Tablets Monotherapy for the Treatment of Partial-Onset Seizures For patients who are already on a single AED and will convert to lacosamide tablets monotherapy, withdrawal of the concomitant AED should not occur until the therapeutic dosage of lacosamide tablet is achieved and has been administered for at least 3 days. Hemodialysis Lacosamide tablet is effectively removed from plasma by hemodialysis. Concomitant Strong CYP3A4 or CYP2C9 Inhibitors Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with renal impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.6), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Concomitant Strong CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 Inhibitors Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with hepatic impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.7), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Lacosamide Tablets Lacosamide tablets should be swallowed whole with liquid. 2.8 Discontinuation of Lacosamide Tablets When discontinuing lacosamide tablets, a gradual withdrawal over at least 1 week is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults (17 years and older): Initial dosage for monotherapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures is 100 mg twice daily ( 2.1 ) Initial dosage for adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures is 50 mg twice daily ( 2.1 ) Maximum recommended dosage for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy is 200 mg twice daily ( 2.1 ) Pediatric Patients 4 years to less than 17 years: The recommended dosage is based on body weight and is administered orally twice daily(2.1) Increase dosage based on clinical response and tolerability, no more frequently than once per week ( 2.1 ) Injection: for intravenous use only when oral administration is temporarily not feasible; the recommended dosage is based on weight and is administered two or three times daily over 15 to 60 minutes; obtaining ECG before initiation is recommended in certain patients ( 2.7 , 5.3 ) Dose adjustment is recommended for severe renal impairment ( 2.4 , 12.3 ) Dose adjustment is recommended for mild or moderate hepatic impairment; use in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended ( 2.5 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Dosage Information The recommended dosage for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older and for adjunctive therapy for primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 4 years of age and older is included in Table 1. Titration increments should no exceed those shown in Table 1. Table 1: Recommended Dosages for Partial-Onset Seizures (Monotherapy or Adjunctive Therapy) in Patients 4 Years and Older, and for Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures (Adjunctive Therapy) in Patients 4 Years of Age and Older* Age and Body Weight Initial Dosage Titration Regimen Maintenance Dosage Adults (17 years and older) Monotherapy**: 100 mg twice daily (200 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) every week Monotherapy**: 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) Pediatric patients weighing at least 50 kg 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) every week Monotherapy**: 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) Increase by 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) every week 2 mg/kg to 4 mg/kg twice daily (4 mg/kg/day to 8 mg/kg/day) Pediatric patients weighing 11 kg to less than 30 kg 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) Increase by 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) every week 3 mg/kg to 6 mg/kg twice daily (6 mg/kg/day to 12 mg/kg/day) *when not specified, the dosage is the same for monotherapy for partial-onset seizures and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures. **Monotherapy for partial-onset seizures only In adjunctive clinical trials in adult patients with partial-onset seizures, a dosage higher than 200 mg twice daily (400 mg per day) was not more effective and was associated with a substantially higher rate of adverse reactions [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) and Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Lacosamide injection can be administered intravenously to adult and pediatric patients weighing 11 kg or more with the same dosing regimens described for oral dosing. (see Table 1). Pediatric use information is approved for UCB, Inc.'s VIMPAT ® (lacosamide) injection. The loading dose should be administered with medical supervision because of the possibility of increased incidence of adverse reactions, including central nervous system (CNS) and cardiovascular adverse reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3), Adverse Reactions (6.1), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. **Monotherapy for partial-onset seizures only Pediatric use information is approved for UCB, Inc.'s VIMPAT ® (lacosamide) injection. 2.3 Converting From a Single Antiepileptic (AED) to Lacosamide Injection Monotherapy for the Treatment of Partial-Onset Seizures For patients who are already on a single AED and will convert to Lacosamide monotherapy, withdrawal of the concomitant AED should not occur until the therapeutic dosage of Lacosamide is achieved and has been administered for at least 3 days. For patients with severe renal impairment [creatinine clearance (CL CR ) less than 30 mL/min as estimated by the Cockcroft- Gault equation for adults; CL CR less than 30 mL/min/1.73m 2 as estimated by the Schwartz equation for pediatric patients] or end-stage renal disease, a reduction of 25% of the maximum dosage is recommended. Concomitant Strong CYP3A4 or CYP2C9 Inhibitors Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with renal impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 [see Drug Interactions (7.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Concomitant Strong CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 Inhibitors Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with hepatic impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 [see Drug Interactions (7.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.7) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.8 Discontinuation of Lacosamide When discontinuing Lacosamide, a gradual withdrawal over at least 1 week is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults (17 years and older): o Initial dosage for monotherapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures is 100 mg twice daily (2.1) o Initial dosage for adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures is 50 mg twice daily (2.1) o Maximum recommended dosage for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy is 200 mg twice daily (2.1) Pediatric Patients 4 years to less than 17 years: The recommended dosage is based on body weight and is administered orally twice daily (2.1) Increase dosage based on clinical response and tolerability, no more frequently than once per week (2.1) Dose adjustment is recommended for severe renal impairment ( 2.4 , 12.3 ) Dose adjustment is recommended for mild or moderate hepatic impairment; use in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended ( 2.5 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Dosage Information The recommended dosage for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older and for adjunctive therapy for primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 4 years of age and older is included in Table 1. Table 1: Recommended Dosages for Partial-Onset Seizures (Monotherapy or Adjunctive Therapy) in Patients 4 years of Age and Older, and for Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures (Adjunctive Therapy) in Patients 4 Years of Age and Older* Age and Body Weight Initial Dosage Titration Regimen Maintenance Dosage Adults (17 years and older) Monotherapy†: 100 mg twice daily (200 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) every week Monotherapy†: 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) Pediatric patients weighing at least 50 kg 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) every week Monotherapy†: 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) Increase by 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) every week 2 mg/kg to 4 mg/kg twice daily (4 mg/kg/day to 8 mg/kg/day) Pediatric patients weighing 11 kg to less than 30 kg 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) Increase by 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) every week 3 mg/kg to 6 mg/kg twice daily (6 mg/kg/day to 12 mg/kg/day) *when not specified, the dosage is the same for monotherapy for partial-onset seizures and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures. †Monotherapy for partial-onset seizures only In adjunctive clinical trials in adult patients with partial-onset seizures, a dosage higher than 200 mg twice daily (400 mg per day) was not more effective and was associated with a substantially higher rate of adverse reactions [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) and Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Additional pediatric use information is approved for UCB, Inc.’s VIMPAT® (lacosamide) tablets. The loading dose should be administered with medical supervision because of the possibility of increased incidence of adverse reactions, including central nervous system (CNS) and cardiovascular adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3) , Adverse Reactions (6.1) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Table 2: Alternate Initial Dosing Regimen to Achieve the Maintenance Dosage in a Shorter Timeframe if Clinically Indicated* Age and Body Weight Alternate Initial Dosage Titration Regimen Maintenance Dosage Adults (17 years and older) Single loading dose: 200 mg 12 hours later initiate: 100 mg twice daily (200 mg per day) Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) at weekly intervals, if needed Monotherapy†: 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) *when not specified, the dosage is the same for monotherapy for partial-onset seizures and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures. †Monotherapy for partial-onset seizures only Additional pediatric use information is approved for UCB, Inc.’s VIMPAT® (lacosamide) tablets. For patients with severe renal impairment [creatinine clearance (CL CR ) less than 30 mL/min as estimated by the Cockcroft-Gault equation for adults; CL CR less than 30 mL/min/1.73m2 as estimated by the Schwartz equation for pediatric patients] or end-stage renal disease, a reduction of 25% of the maximum dosage is recommended. Hemodialysis Lacosamide are effectively removed from plasma by hemodialysis. Concomitant Strong CYP3A4 or CYP2C9 Inhibitors Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with renal impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 [ see Drug Interactions (7.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.8 Discontinuation of Lacosamide tablets When discontinuing lacosamide tablets, a gradual withdrawal over at least 1 week is recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults (17 years and older): Initial dosage for monotherapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures is 100 mg twice daily. (2.1) Initial dosage for adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures is 50 mg twice daily. (2.1) Maximum recommended dosage for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy is 200 mg twice daily. (2.1) Pediatric Patients 4 years to less than 17 years : The recommended dosage is based on body weight and is administered orally twice daily. (2.1) Increase dosage based on clinical response and tolerability, no more frequently than once per week. (2.1) Dose adjustment is recommended for severe renal impairment. (2.4, 12.3) Dose adjustment is recommended for mild or moderate hepatic impairment; use in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended. (2.5, 12.3) 2.1 Dosage Information The recommended dosage for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures and for adjunctive therapy for primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 4 years of age and older is included in Table 1. Table 1: Recommended Dosages for Partial-Onset Seizures (Monotherapy or Adjunctive Therapy) and for Primary Generalized Tonic-Clonic Seizures (Adjunctive Therapy) in Patients 4 Years of Age and Older * Age and Body Weight Initial Dosage Titration Regimen Maintenance Dosage Adults (17 years and older) Monotherapy ** : 100 mg twice daily (200 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) every week Monotherapy ** : 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) Pediatric patients weighing at least 50 kg Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) every week Monotherapy ** : 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) Increase by 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) every week 2 mg/kg to 4 mg/kg twice daily (4 mg/kg/day to 8 mg/kg/day) Pediatric patients weighing 11 kg to less than 30 kg 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) Increase by 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) every week 3 mg/kg to 6 mg/kg twice daily (6 mg/kg/day to 12 mg/kg/day) * When not specified, the dosage is the same for monotherapy for partial-onset seizures and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures. ** Monotherapy for partial-onset seizures only. In adjunctive clinical trials in adult patients with partial-onset seizures, a dosage higher than 200 mg twice daily (400 mg per day) was not more effective and was associated with a substantially higher rate of adverse reactions [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) and Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . 2.2 Alternate Initial Dosage Information to Achieve the Maintenance Dosage in a Shorter Timeframe For monotherapy and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures and for adjunctive therapy for primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients 17 years of age and older, an alternate initial dosing regimen for week 1 (e.g., including a loading dose and/or a higher initial dosage) may be administered in patients for whom achieving the recommended maintenance dosage in a shorter timeframe is clinically indicated (see Table 2). Table 2: Alternate Initial Dosing Regimen to Achieve the Maintenance Dosage in a Shorter Timeframe if Clinically Indicated * Age and Body Weight Alternate Initial Dosage Titration Regimen Maintenance Dosage Adults (17 years and older) Single loading dose: 200 mg 12 hours later initiate: 100 mg twice daily (200 mg per day) Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) at weekly intervals, if needed Monotherapy ** : 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) * when not specified, the dosage is the same for monotherapy for partial-onset seizures and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures or primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures. 2.3 Converting From a Single Antiepileptic (AED) to Lacosamide Tablets Monotherapy for the Treatment of Partial-Onset Seizures For patients who are already on a single AED and will convert to lacosamide tablets monotherapy, withdrawal of the concomitant AED should not occur until the therapeutic dosage of lacosamide tablets is achieved and has been administered for at least 3 days. 2.8 Discontinuation of Lacosamide Tablets When discontinuing lacosamide tablets, a gradual withdrawal over at least 1 week is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults (17 years and older) : Initial dosage for monotherapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures is 100 mg twice daily ( 2.1 ) Initial dosage for adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial-onset seizures is 50 mg twice daily ( 2.1 ) Maximum recommended dosage for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy is 200 mg twice daily ( 2.1 ) Pediatric Patients 4 years to less than 17 years : The recommended dosage is based on body weight and is administered orally twice daily ( 2.1 ) Increase dosage based on clinical response and tolerability, no more frequently than once per week ( 2.1 ) Dose adjustment is recommended for severe renal impairment ( 2.3 , 12.3 ) Dose adjustment is recommended for mild or moderate hepatic impairment; use in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended ( 2.4 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Dosage Information The recommended dosage for monotherapy and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures in patients 4 years of age and older is included in Table 1. Table 1: Recommended Dosages for Partial-Onset Seizures (Monotherapy or Adjunctive Therapy) in Patients 4 Years of Age and Older* Age and Body Weight Initial Dosage Titration Regimen Maintenance Dosage Adults (17 years and older) Monotherapy**: 100 mg twice daily (200 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) every week Monotherapy**: 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) Alternate Initial Dosage: 200 mg single loading dose, followed 12 hours later by 100 mg twice daily Pediatric patients weighing 50 kg or more 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) Increase by 50 mg twice daily (100 mg per day) every week Monotherapy**: 150 mg to 200 mg twice daily (300 mg to 400 mg per day) Adjunctive Therapy: 100 mg to 200 mg twice daily (200 mg to 400 mg per day) Pediatric patients weighing 30 kg to less than 50 kg 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) Increase by 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) every week 2 mg/kg to 4 mg/kg twice daily (4 mg/kg/day to 8 mg/kg/day) Pediatric patients weighing 11 kg to less than 30 kg 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) Increase by 1 mg/kg twice daily (2 mg/kg/day) every week 3 mg/kg to 6 mg/kg twice daily (6 mg/kg/day to 12 mg/kg/day) *when not specified, the dosage is the same for monotherapy for partial-onset seizures and adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures. The adult loading dose should be administered with medical supervision because of the increased incidence of CNS adverse reactions [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Concomitant Strong CYP3A4 or CYP2C9 Inhibitors Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with renal impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 [ see Drug Interactions ( 7.1) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Concomitant Strong CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 Inhibitors Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with hepatic impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 [ see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3) ]. 2.5 Administration Instructions for Lacosamide tablets Lacosamide tablets may be taken with or without food. 2.7 Discontinuation of Lacosamide tablets When discontinuing lacosamide, a gradual withdrawal over at least 1 week is recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5) ].
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None . None (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None. None ( 4 ) None. (4)
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Strong CYP3A4 or CYP2C9 Inhibitors Patients with renal or hepatic impairment who are taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 may have a significant increase in exposure to lacosamide. Dose reduction may be necessary in these patients. 7.2 Concomitant Medications that Affect Cardiac Conduction Lacosamide should be used with caution in patients on concomitant medications that affect cardiac conduction (sodium channel blockers, beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers, potassium channel blockers) including those that prolong PR interval (including sodium channel blocking AEDs), because of a risk of AV block, bradycardia, or ventricular tachyarrhythmia. In such patients, obtaining an ECG before beginning lacosamide, and after lacosamide is titrated to steady-state, is recommended. In addition, these patients should be closely monitored if they are administered lacosamide through the intravenous route [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] . In addition, these patients should be closely monitored if they are administered lacosamide through the intravenous route [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . In addition, these patients should be closely monitored if they are administered lacosamide through the intravenous route [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. In addition, these patients should be closely monitored if they are administered lacosamide through the intravenous route [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . In addition, these patients should be closely monitored if they are administered lacosamide through the intravenous route [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. In addition, these patients should be closely monitored if they are administered lacosamide through the intravenous route [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. In addition, these patients should be closely monitored if they are administered lacosamide through the intravenous route [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ].

=== CAMPHOR ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Camphor 3.1%.................Topical Analgesic Menthol 5.3%..................Topical Analgesic Purpose Cough suppressant & topical analgesic Cough suppressant Cough suppressant & topical analgesic Active Ingredients Purpose Methyl Salicylate 15% Topical Analgesic Menthol 5% Topical Analgesic Camphor 3% Topical Analgesic Purpose Cough suppressant & topical analgesic Purpose Camphor - Cough suppressant & topical analgesic Eucalyptus oil - Cough suppressant Menthol - Cough suppressant & topical analgesic Purpose Topical Analgesic Active Ingredients Purpose Camphor 11% Topical Analgesic Menthol 10% Topical Analgesic Purpose Camphor - Topical analgesic Menthol - Topical analgesic Methyl salicylate - Topical analgesic Purpose External analgesic External analgesic External analgesic
Indications: Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with simple backache arthritis strains bruises sprains Uses when applied to chest and throat, temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation associated with the common cold when applied to muscles and joints, temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints Uses For temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with simple backache, arthritis, bruises, strains and sprains. Uses temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation associated with a cold temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints Uses For temporary relief from minor aches and pains of sore muscles and joints asociated with: • arthritis pain • backache • strains • sprains Uses For temporary relief of minor aches and pains of neck and shoulder muscles. Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with: simple backache arthritis strains bruises sprains Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to: ■ simple backache ■ arthritis ■ strains ■ bruises ■ sprains
Dosage: Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older: Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily. Children under 2 years of age: do not use, consult a doctor. Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older : Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily. Directions see important warnings under "When using this product" adults and children 2 years and over: for cough suppression rub a thick layer on throat & chest cover with a warm, dry cloth if desired keep clothing loose about throat and chest to help vapors reach the nose and mouth use up to three times daily or as directed by doctor for muscle / joint minor aches and pains apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 2 years: do not use Directions For adults and children over 12 years of age, rub well on the affected area. Repeat 3 to 4 times daily For children 12 years of age or younger, consult a doctor before use. Directions See important warnings under "When using this product" • adults and children 2 years and over: > Rub a thick layer on the throat and chest for cough, or rub on sore aching muscles or joints > Clothing should be left loose about the throat and chest to help vapors reach the nose and mouth > Use up to 3 times daily or as directed by doctor Cover with a warm, dry cloth if desired • children under 2 years: do not use Directions see important warnings under "When using this product" adults and children 2 years and over: for cough suppression rub a thick layer on the throat and chest cover with a warm, dry cloth if desired keep clothing loose about throat and chest to help vapors reach the nose and mouth use up to three times daily or as directed by a doctor for muscle/joint minor aches and pains apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 2 years: do not use Directions: Use only as directed. Rub a thin film over the affected areas not more than four (4) times daily. Rinse hands after use with cool water. Directions For adults and children over 12 years, rub well on the affected area Repeat 3 to 4 times daily For children 12 years of age or younger, consult a doctor before use. Directions adults and children 12 years and over: apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions ■ adults and children 3 years of age and older: apply several drops and rub Into the affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily ■ children under 3 years of age: consult your physician
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Do not use on wounds or damaged skin When using this product avoid contact with the eyes do not bandage tightly Stop use and ask doctor if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days condition worsens irritation occurs If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only; avoid contact with eyes. Warnings For external use only. When using this product Use only as directed Avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes Do not apply to wounds, damaged or irritated skin Do not bandage or cover with wrap or use heating pad Do not use 1 hour prior to bathing or within 30 minutes after bathing. Stop use and ask a doctor if Condition worsens Severe skin irritation occurs Pain persists for more than 7 days, or redness is present Pain clears up and then recurs a few days later. If pregnant or breast-feeding, or if you have sensitive skin, ask a healthcare professional before use. Keep out of reach of children to avoid accidental poisoning. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. Do not use by mouth in nostrils on wounds or damaged skin with tight bandages Ask a doctor before use if you have cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma or emphysema When using this product, do not heat microwave add to hot water or any container where heating water. May cause splattering and result in burns. Stop use and ask a doctor if muscle aches and pains worsen or persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days. cough persists for more than 1 week, tends to recur, or is accompanied by fever, rash, or persistent headache. A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Warnings For external use only; avoid contact with eyes Do not use by mouth in nostrils on wounds or damaged skin with tight bandages Ask a doctor before use if you have cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, or emphysema When using this product, do not heat microwave add to hot water or any container where heating water. cough persists for more than 1 week, tends to recur, or is accompanied by a fever, rash, or persistent headache. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings: For external use only. Warnings For external use only When using this product Use only as directed Avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes Do not apply to wounds, damaged or irritated skin Do not bandage or cover with wrap or use heating pad Do not use 1 hour prior to bathing or within 30 minutes after bathing. Stop use and ask a doctor if Condition worsens Severe skin irritation occurs Pain persists for more than 7 days Pain clears up and then recurs a few days later. If pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you have sensitive skin, ask a healthcare professional before use. California WARNING: This product can expose you to chemicals including diethanolamine (DEA), which is known to the State of California to cause cancer. For more information go to www.P65Warnings.ca.gov. Image Warnings For external use only When using this product use only as directed do not get into eyes or on mucous membranes do not apply to wounds or damaged skin do not bandage tightly do not use with heating pad or apply external heat Stop use and ask a doctor if skin redness or excessive irritation of the skin occurs condition worsens symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Warnings For external use only

=== ENALAPRIL MALEATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypertension Enalapril maleate is indicated for the treatment of hypertension. Enalapril maleate is effective alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents, especially thiazide-type diuretics. The blood pressure lowering effects of enalapril maleate and thiazides are approximately additive. Heart Failure Enalapril maleate is indicated for the treatment of symptomatic congestive heart failure, usually in combination with diuretics and digitalis. In these patients enalapril maleate improves symptoms, increases survival, and decreases the frequency of hospitalization (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Heart Failure, Mortality Trials for details and limitations of survival trials). Asymptomatic Left Ventricular Dysfunction In clinically stable asymptomatic patients with left ventricular dysfunction (ejection fraction ≤35 percent), enalapril maleate decreases the rate of development of overt heart failure and decreases the incidence of hospitalization for heart failure (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Heart Failure, Mortality Trials for details and limitations of survival trials). In using enalapril maleate consideration should be given to the fact that another angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has caused agranulocytosis, particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen vascular disease, and that available data are insufficient to show that enalapril maleate does not have a similar risk (see WARNINGS, Neutropenia/Agranulocytosis ). In considering use of enalapril maleate, it should be noted that in controlled clinical trials ACE inhibitors have an effect on blood pressure that is less in black patients than in non-blacks. In addition, it should be noted that black patients receiving ACE inhibitors have been reported to have a higher incidence of angioedema compared to non-blacks (see WARNINGS, Head and Neck Angioedema ). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypertension Enalapril maleate tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension. Enalapril maleate tablets are effective alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents, especially thiazidetype diuretics. The blood pressure lowering effects of enalapril maleate tablets and thiazides are approximately additive. Heart Failure Enalapril maleate tablets are indicated for the treatment of symptomatic congestive heart failure, usually in combination with diuretics and digitalis. In these patients enalapril maleate tablets improve symptoms, increase survival, and decrease the frequency of hospitalization (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Heart Failure, Mortality Trials for details and limitations of survival trials). Asymptomatic Left Ventricular Dysfunction In clinically stable asymptomatic patients with left ventricular dysfunction (ejection fraction ≤35 percent), enalapril maleate tablets decrease the rate of development of overt heart failure and decrease the incidence of hospitalization for heart failure (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Heart Failure, Mortality Trials for details and limitations of survival trials). In using enalapril maleate tablets consideration should be given to the fact that another angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has caused agranulocytosis, particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen vascular disease, and that available data are insufficient to show that enalapril maleate tablets do not have a similar risk (see WARNINGS, Neutropenia/Agranulocytosis ). In considering use of enalapril maleate tablets, it should be noted that in controlled clinical trials ACE inhibitors have an effect on blood pressure that is less in black patients than in non-blacks. In considering use of enalapril maleate it should be noted that in controlled clinical trials ACE inhibitors have an effect on blood pressure that is less in black patients than in non-blacks. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Enalapril maleate is an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor indicated for: • treatment of hypertension in adults and children older than one month, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. ( 1.1 ) • treatment of symptomatic heart failure. ( 1.2 ) • treatment of asymptomatic left ventricular dysfunction, to decrease the rate of development of overt heart failure and reduce hospitalization for heart failure. ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Hypertension Enalapril maleate oral solution is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure in adults and children older than one month [see Pediatric Use ( 8.4 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including this drug. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in Black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. Enalapril maleate oral solution is effective alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents, especially thiazide-type diuretics. The blood pressure lowering effects of enalapril maleate oral solution and thiazides are approximately additive. 1.2 Heart Failure Enalapril maleate oral solution is indicated for the treatment of symptomatic heart failure, usually in combination with diuretics and digitalis. In these patients, enalapril maleate oral solution increases survival and decreases the frequency of hospitalization. 1.3 Asymptomatic Left Ventricular Dysfunction In clinically stable asymptomatic patients with left ventricular dysfunction (ejection fraction ≤35 percent), enalapril maleate oral solution decreases the rate of development of overt heart failure and decreases the incidence of hospitalization for heart failure.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension In patients who are currently being treated with a diuretic, symptomatic hypotension occasionally may occur following the initial dose of enalapril maleate. The diuretic should, if possible, be discontinued for two to three days before beginning therapy with enalapril maleate to reduce the likelihood of hypotension (see WARNINGS, Hypotension ). If the patient's blood pressure is not controlled with enalapril maleate alone, diuretic therapy may be resumed. If the diuretic cannot be discontinued an initial dose of 2.5 mg should be used under medical supervision for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour (see WARNINGS, Hypotension and PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). The recommended initial dose in patients not on diuretics is 5 mg once a day. Dosage should be adjusted according to blood pressure response. The usual dosage range is 10 mg to 40 mg per day administered in a single dose or two divided doses. In some patients treated once daily, the antihypertensive effect may diminish toward the end of the dosing interval. In such patients, an increase in dosage or twice daily administration should be considered. If blood pressure is not controlled with enalapril maleate alone, a diuretic may be added. Concomitant administration of enalapril maleate with potassium supplements, potassium salt substitutes, or potassium-sparing diuretics may lead to increases of serum potassium (see PRECAUTIONS ). Dosage Adjustment in Hypertensive Patients with Renal Impairment The usual dose of enalapril is recommended for patients with a creatinine clearance more than 30 mL/min (serum creatinine of up to approximately 3 mg/dL). For patients with creatinine clearance less than or equal to 30 mL/min (serum creatinine more than or equal to 3 mg/dL), the first dose is 2.5 mg once daily. The dosage may be titrated upward until blood pressure is controlled or to a maximum of 40 mg daily. Renal Status Creatinine Clearance mL/min Initial Dose mg/day Normal Renal Function >80 mL/min 5 mg Mild Impairment ≤80 >30 mL/min 5 mg Moderate to Severe Impairment ≤30 mL/min 2.5 mg Dialysis Patients See WARNINGS, Anaphylactoid Reactions during Membrane Exposure 2.5 mg on dialysis days Dosage on nondialysis days should be adjusted depending on the blood pressure response. Heart Failure Enalapril maleate is indicated for the treatment of symptomatic heart failure, usually in combination with diuretics and digitalis. In the placebo-controlled studies that demonstrated improved survival, patients were titrated as tolerated up to 40 mg, administered in two divided doses. The recommended initial dose is 2.5 mg. The recommended dosing range is 2.5 to 20 mg given twice a day. Doses should be titrated upward, as tolerated, over a period of a few days or weeks. The maximum daily dose administered in clinical trials was 40 mg in divided doses. After the initial dose of enalapril maleate, the patient should be observed under medical supervision for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). If possible, the dose of any concomitant diuretic should be reduced which may diminish the likelihood of hypotension. The appearance of hypotension after the initial dose of enalapril maleate does not preclude subsequent careful dose titration with the drug, following effective management of the hypotension. Asymptomatic Left Ventricular Dysfunction In the trial that demonstrated efficacy, patients were started on 2.5 mg twice daily and were titrated as tolerated to the targeted daily dose of 20 mg (in divided doses). Dosage Adjustment in Patients with Heart Failure and Renal Impairment or Hyponatremia In patients with heart failure who have hyponatremia (serum sodium less than 130 mEq/L) or with serum creatinine greater than 1.6 mg/dL, therapy should be initiated at 2.5 mg daily under close medical supervision (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Heart Failure , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ) . The dose may be increased to 2.5 mg b.i.d., then 5 mg b.i.d. and higher as needed, usually at intervals of four days or more if at the time of dosage adjustment there is not excessive hypotension or significant deterioration of renal function. The maximum daily dose is 40 mg. Pediatric Hypertensive Patients The usual recommended starting dose is 0.08 mg/kg (up to 5 mg) once daily. Doses above 0.58 mg/kg (or in excess of 40 mg) have not been studied in pediatric patients (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Clinical Pharmacology in Pediatric Patients ). Enalapril maleate is not recommended in neonates and in pediatric patients with glomerular filtration rate less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 , as no data are available. Preparation of Suspension (for 200 mL of a 1.0 mg/mL suspension) Add 50 mL of sodium citrate and citric acid oral solution, USP to a polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottle containing ten 20 mg tablets of enalapril maleate and shake for at least 2 minutes. Let concentrate stand for 60 minutes. Following the 60-minute hold time, shake the concentrate for an additional minute. Add 150 mL of Ora-Sweet SF to the concentrate in the PET bottle and shake the suspension to disperse the ingredients. The suspension should be refrigerated at 2° to 8°C (36° to 46°F) and can be stored for up to 30 days. Shake the suspension before each use. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension In patients who are currently being treated with a diuretic, symptomatic hypotension occasionally may occur following the initial dose of enalapril maleate tablets. The diuretic should, if possible, be discontinued for two to three days before beginning therapy with enalapril maleate tablets to reduce the likelihood of hypotension (see WARNINGS, Hypotension ). If the patient's blood pressure is not controlled with enalapril maleate tablets alone, diuretic therapy may be resumed. The usual dosage range is 10 to 40 mg per day administered in a single dose or two divided doses. If blood pressure is not controlled with enalapril maleate tablets alone, a diuretic may be added. Concomitant administration of enalapril maleate tablets with potassium supplements, potassium salt substitutes, or potassium-sparing diuretics may lead to increases of serum potassium (see PRECAUTIONS ). Renal Status Creatinine Clearance mL/min Initial Dose mg/day Normal Renal Function >80 mL/min 5 mg Mild Impairment ≤ 80 >30 mL/min 5 mg Moderate to Severe Impairment ≤30 mL/min 2.5 mg Dialysis Patients See WARNINGS, Anaphylactoid Reactions during Membrane Exposure. 2.5 mg on dialysis days Dosage on nondialysis days should be adjusted depending on the blood pressure response. Heart Failure Enalapril maleate tablets are indicated for the treatment of symptomatic heart failure, usually in combination with diuretics and digitalis. After the initial dose of enalapril maleate tablets, the patient should be observed under medical supervision for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). The appearance of hypotension after the initial dose of enalapril maleate tablets does not preclude subsequent careful dose titration with the drug, following effective management of the hypotension. Dosage Adjustment in Patients with Heart Failure and Renal Impairment or Hyponatremia In patients with heart failure who have hyponatremia (serum sodium less than 130 mEq/L) or with serum creatinine greater than 1.6 mg/dL, therapy should be initiated at 2.5 mg daily under close medical supervision (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Heart Failure , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Doses above 0.58 mg/kg (or in excess of 40 mg) have not been studied in pediatric patients (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Clinical Pharmacology in Pediatric Patients) . Enalapril maleate tablets are not recommended in neonates and in pediatric patients with glomerular filtration rate less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 , as no data are available. Preparation of Suspension (for 200 mL of a 1.0 mg/mL suspension) Add 50 mL of sodium citrate and citric acid oral solution, USP to a polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottle containing ten 20 mg tablets of enalapril maleate tablets and shake for at least 2 minutes. Renal Status Creatinine Clearance mL/min Initial Dose mg/day Normal Renal Function >80 mL/min 5 mg Mild Impairment ≤ 80 >30 mL/min 5 mg Moderate to Severe Impairment ≤30 mL/min 2.5 mg Dialysis Patients See WARNINGS, Anaphylactoid Reactions during Membrane Exposure . 1 See WARNINGS, Anaphylactoid Reactions During Membrane Exposure 2 Dosage on nondialysis days should be adjusted depending on the blood pressure response. Renal Status Creatinine- Clearance mL/min Initial Dose mg/day Normal Renal Function >80 mL/min 5 mg Mild Impairment ≤80 >30 mL/min 5 mg Moderate to Severe Impairment ≤30 mL/min 2.5 mg Dialysis Patients 1 - 2.5 mg on dialysis days 2 Heart Failure Enalapril maleate tablets are indicated for the treatment of symptomatic heart failure, usually in combination with diuretics and digitalis. Add 150 mL of Ora-Sweet SF # to the concentrate in the PET bottle and shake the suspension to disperse the ingredients. The suspension should be refrigerated at 2° to 8 o C (36° to 46 o F) and can be stored for up to 30 days. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension • Adult: recommended initial dose is 5 mg once daily. Maximum dose is 40 mg daily. ( 2.1 ) • Pediatrics: recommended starting dose is 0.08 mg/kg (up to 5 mg) once daily. ( 2.1 ) Heart Failure: Initiate at 2.5 mg twice daily. Titrate up to 20 mg twice daily as tolerated. ( 2.2 ) Asymptomatic Left Ventricular Dysfunction: Initiate at 2.5 mg twice daily. Titrate up to 10 mg twice daily. ( 2.3 ) Enalapril maleate oral solution is a ready-to-use solution intended for oral use only. 2.1 Hypertension Adults: The recommended initial dose in adults is 5 mg taken orally once a day. Titrate upward to maximum of 40 mg daily as needed to help achieve blood pressure goals. The dose may be divided and administered twice daily if the antihypertensive effect diminishes at the end of the dosing interval. Use with diuretics: If additional blood pressure reduction is needed, enalapril maleate oral solution may be administered with a low dose of diuretic. The recommended initial dose in patients taking diuretics is 2.5 mg daily. Dosage Adjustment for Renal Impairment: See table below. The dosage may be titrated upward as needed to a maximum of 40 mg daily. Renal Status Creatinine-Clearance mL/min Initial Dose mg/day Normal or Mild Impairment of Renal Function >30 mL/min 5 mg Moderate to Severe Impairment ≤30 mL/min 2.5 mg Dialysis Patients*† – 2.5 mg * = [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. † = Should be taken after hemodialysis on dialysis days [see Clinical Pharmacology 12.3 )] . Calculated using ideal body weight. Children greater than 1 month of age: The usual recommended starting dose is 0.08 mg/kg (up to 5 mg) once daily. Adjust dose based on blood pressure response. Doses above 0.58 mg/kg (or in excess of 40 mg) have not been studied in pediatric patients [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Enalapril maleate oral solution is not recommended in neonates (i.e., infants 1 month of age or less), preterm infants who have not reached a corrected post-conceptual age of 44 weeks, and in pediatric patients with glomerular filtration rate <30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 . 2.2 Heart Failure The recommended initial dose is 2.5 mg twice a day titrated up to a maximum of 20 mg twice a day, as tolerated. Doses are usually given in combination with diuretics and digitalis. In patients with hyponatremia (serum sodium less than 130 mEq/L) or serum creatinine greater than 1.6 mg/dL, the recommended initial dose is 2.5 mg once daily. Diuretic dose may need to be adjusted to minimize hypovolemia and hypotension. The appearance of hypotension after the initial dose of enalapril maleate oral solution does not preclude subsequent careful dose titration with the drug, following effective management of the hypotension. 2.3 Asymptomatic Left Ventricular Dysfunction The recommended initial dose is 2.5 mg twice a day titrated up to a maximum of 10 mg twice a day, as tolerated. Diuretic dose may need to be adjusted [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )].
Warnings: WARNINGS Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions Presumably because angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides, including endogenous bradykinin, patients receiving ACE inhibitors (including enalapril maleate) may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions, some of them serious. Head and Neck Angioedema Angioedema of the face, extremities, lips, tongue, glottis and/or larynx has been reported in patients treated with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, including enalapril maleate. This may occur at any time during treatment. In such cases enalapril maleate should be promptly discontinued and appropriate therapy and monitoring should be provided until complete and sustained resolution of signs and symptoms has occurred. In instances where swelling has been confined to the face and lips the condition has generally resolved without treatment, although antihistamines have been useful in relieving symptoms. Angioedema associated with laryngeal edema may be fatal. Where there is involvement of the tongue, glottis or larynx, likely to cause airway obstruction, appropriate therapy, e.g., subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1:1000 (0.3 mL to 0.5 mL) and/or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway, should be promptly provided (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitor and mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor (e.g., temsirolimus, sirolimus, everolimus) therapy or a neprilysin inhibitor may be at increased risk for angioedema (see PRECAUTIONS ). Intestinal Angioedema Intestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors. These patients presented with abdominal pain (with or without nausea or vomiting); in some cases there was no prior history of facial angioedema and C1 esterase levels were normal. The angioedema was diagnosed by procedures including abdominal CT scan or ultrasound, or at surgery, and symptoms resolved after stopping the ACE inhibitor. Intestinal angioedema should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients on ACE inhibitors presenting with abdominal pain. Patients with a history of angioedema unrelated to ACE inhibitor therapy may be at increased risk of angioedema while receiving an ACE inhibitor (see also INDICATIONS AND USAGE and CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Anaphylactoid Reactions During Desensitization Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions. In the same patients, these reactions were avoided when ACE inhibitors were temporarily withheld, but they reappeared upon inadvertent rechallenge. Anaphylactoid Reactions During Membrane Exposure Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in patients dialyzed with high-flux membranes and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor. Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in patients undergoing low-density lipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate absorption. Hypotension Excessive hypotension is rare in uncomplicated hypertensive patients treated with enalapril maleate alone. Patients with heart failure given enalapril maleate commonly have some reduction in blood pressure, especially with the first dose, but discontinuation of therapy for continuing symptomatic hypotension usually is not necessary when dosing instructions are followed; caution should be observed when initiating therapy (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Patients at risk for excessive hypotension, sometimes associated with oliguria and/or progressive azotemia, and rarely with acute renal failure and/or death, include those with the following conditions or characteristics: heart failure, hyponatremia, high-dose diuretic therapy, recent intensive diuresis or increase in diuretic dose, renal dialysis, or severe volume and/or salt depletion of any etiology. It may be advisable to eliminate the diuretic (except in patients with heart failure), reduce the diuretic dose or increase salt intake cautiously before initiating therapy with enalapril maleate in patients at risk for excessive hypotension who are able to tolerate such adjustments (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). In patients at risk for excessive hypotension, therapy should be started under very close medical supervision and such patients should be followed closely for the first two weeks of treatment and whenever the dose of enalapril and/or diuretic is increased. Similar considerations may apply to patients with ischemic heart or cerebrovascular disease, in whom an excessive fall in blood pressure could result in a myocardial infarction or cerebrovascular accident. If excessive hypotension occurs, the patient should be placed in the supine position and, if necessary, receive an intravenous infusion of normal saline. A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further doses of enalapril maleate, which usually can be given without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized. If symptomatic hypotension develops, a dose reduction or discontinuation of enalapril maleate or concomitant diuretic may be necessary. Neutropenia/Agranulocytosis Another angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has been shown to cause agranulocytosis and bone marrow depression, rarely in uncomplicated patients but more frequently in patients with renal impairment, especially if they also have a collagen vascular disease. Available data from clinical trials of enalapril are insufficient to show that enalapril does not cause agranulocytosis at similar rates. Marketing experience has revealed cases of neutropenia or agranulocytosis in which a causal relationship to enalapril cannot be excluded. Periodic monitoring of white blood cell counts in patients with collagen vascular disease and renal disease should be considered. Hepatic Failure Rarely, ACE inhibitors have been associated with a syndrome that starts with cholestatic jaundice and progresses to fulminant hepatic necrosis, and (sometimes) death. The mechanism of this syndrome is not understood. Patients receiving ACE inhibitors who develop jaundice or marked elevations of hepatic enzymes should discontinue the ACE inhibitor and receive appropriate medical follow-up. Fetal Toxicity Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue enalapril maleate as soon as possible. These adverse outcomes are usually associated with use of these drugs in the second and third trimester of pregnancy. Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin-angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents. Appropriate management of maternal hypertension during pregnancy is important to optimize outcomes for both mother and fetus. In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the renin-angiotensin system for a particular patient, apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus. Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra-amniotic environment. If oligohydramnios is observed, discontinue enalapril maleate, unless it is considered lifesaving for the mother. Fetal testing may be appropriate, based on the week of pregnancy. Patients and physicians should be aware, however, that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury. Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to enalapril for hypotension, oliguria, and hyperkalemia (see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use ). No teratogenic effects of enalapril were seen in studies of pregnant rats and rabbits. On a body surface area basis, the doses used were 57 times and 12 times, respectively, the maximum recommended human daily dose (MRHDD). WARNINGS Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions Presumably because angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides, including endogenous bradykinin, patients receiving ACE inhibitors (including enalapril maleate tablets) may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions, some of them serious. Head and Neck Angioedema Angioedema of the face, extremities, lips, tongue, glottis and/or larynx has been reported in patients treated with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, including enalapril maleate tablets. In such cases enalapril maleate tablets should be promptly discontinued and appropriate therapy and monitoring should be provided until complete and sustained resolution of signs and symptoms has occurred. Intestinal Angioedema: Intestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors. Patients with a history of angioedema unrelated to ACE inhibitor therapy may be at increased risk of angioedema while receiving an ACE inhibitor (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE and CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Hypotension Excessive hypotension is rare in uncomplicated hypertensive patients treated with enalapril maleate tablets alone. Patients with heart failure given enalapril maleate tablets commonly have some reduction in blood pressure, especially with the first dose, but discontinuation of therapy for continuing symptomatic hypotension usually is not necessary when dosing instructions are followed; caution should be observed when initiating therapy (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). It may be advisable to eliminate the diuretic (except in patients with heart failure), reduce the diuretic dose or increase salt intake cautiously before initiating therapy with enalapril maleate tablets in patients at risk for excessive hypotension who are able to tolerate such adjustments (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further doses of enalapril maleate tablets, which usually can be given without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized. If symptomatic hypotension develops, a dose reduction or discontinuation of enalapril maleate tablets or concomitant diuretic may be necessary. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue enalapril maleate tablets as soon as possible. In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the reninangiotensin system for a particular patient, apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus. If oligohydramnios is observed, discontinue enalapril maleate tablets, unless it is considered lifesaving for the mother. Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to enalapril maleate tablets for hypotension, oliguria, and hyperkalemia (see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use ). Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to enalapril maleate tablets for hypotension, oliguria, and hyperkalemia [see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use ].
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Enalapril maleate is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this product and in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous treatment with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and in patients with hereditary or idiopathic angioedema. Do not coadminister aliskiren with enalapril maleate in patients with diabetes (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Enalapril maleate is contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor (e.g., sacubitril). Do not administer enalapril maleate within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril/valsartan, a neprilysin inhibitor (see WARNINGS, Head and Neck Angioedema ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Enalapril maleate tablets are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this product and in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous treatment with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and in patients with hereditary or idiopathic angioedema. Do not coadminister aliskiren with enalapril maleate tablets in patients with diabetes (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Enalapril maleate tablets are contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor (e.g., sacubitril). Do not administer enalapril maleate tablets within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril/valsartan, a neprilysin inhibitor (see WARNINGS, Head and Neck Angioedema ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Enalapril maleate oral solution is contraindicated in patients with: • a history of angioedema or hypersensitivity related to previous treatment with an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] • hereditary or idiopathic angioedema. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Do not co-administer aliskiren with enalapril maleate oral solution in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )]. Enalapril maleate oral solution is contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor (e.g., sacubitril). Do not administer enalapril maleate oral solution within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril/valsartan, a neprilysin inhibitor [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. • Hypersensitivity related to previous treatment with an ACEI. ( 4 ) • Hereditary or idiopathic angioedema. ( 4 ) • Do not co-administer aliskiren in patients with diabetes. ( 4 ) • In combination with a neprilysin inhibitor. ( 4 )
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Neprilysin Inhibitors Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema (see WARNINGS ). Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on enalapril maleate and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with enalapril maleate in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with enalapril maleate in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). Hypotension — Patients on Diuretic Therapy Patients on diuretics and especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted, may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with enalapril. The possibility of hypotensive effects with enalapril can be minimized by either discontinuing the diuretic or increasing the salt intake prior to initiation of treatment with enalapril. If it is necessary to continue the diuretic, provide close medical supervision after the initial dose for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour (See WARNINGS, Hypotension and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Agents Causing Renin Release The antihypertensive effect of enalapril maleate is augmented by antihypertensive agents that cause renin release (e.g., diuretics). Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including enalapril, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving enalapril and NSAID therapy. In a clinical pharmacology study, indomethacin or sulindac was administered to hypertensive patients receiving enalapril maleate. In this study there was no evidence of a blunting of the antihypertensive action of enalapril maleate. However, reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors. Other Cardiovascular Agents Enalapril maleate has been used concomitantly with beta adrenergic-blocking agents, methyldopa, nitrates, calcium-blocking agents, hydralazine, prazosin and digoxin without evidence of clinically significant adverse interactions. Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Enalapril maleate attenuates potassium loss caused by thiazide-type diuretics. Potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, or amiloride), potassium supplements, or potassium-containing salt substitutes may lead to significant increases in serum potassium. Therefore, if concomitant use of these agents is indicated because of demonstrated hypokalemia, they should be used with caution and with frequent monitoring of serum potassium. Potassium-sparing agents should generally not be used in patients with heart failure receiving enalapril maleate. Lithium Lithium toxicity has been reported in patients receiving lithium concomitantly with drugs which cause elimination of sodium, including ACE inhibitors. A few cases of lithium toxicity have been reported in patients receiving concomitant enalapril maleate and lithium and were reversible upon discontinuation of both drugs. It is recommended that serum lithium levels be monitored frequently if enalapril is administered concomitantly with lithium. Gold Nitritoid reactions (symptoms include facial flushing, nausea, vomiting and hypotension) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold (sodium aurothiomalate) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including enalapril maleate. mTOR (Mammalian Target of Rapamycin) Inhibitors Patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitor and mTOR inhibitor (e.g., temsirolimus, sirolimus, everolimus) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema (see WARNINGS, Head and Neck Angioedema ). Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on enalapril maleate tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with enalapril maleate tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with enalapril maleate tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). Agents Causing Renin Release The antihypertensive effect of enalapril maleate tablets is augmented by antihypertensive agents that cause renin release (e.g., diuretics). In a clinical pharmacology study, indomethacin or sulindac was administered to hypertensive patients receiving enalapril maleate tablets. In this study there was no evidence of a blunting of the antihypertensive action of enalapril maleate tablets. Other Cardiovascular Agents Enalapril maleate tablets have been used concomitantly with beta adrenergic-blocking agents, methyldopa, nitrates, calcium-blocking agents, hydralazine, prazosin and digoxin without evidence of clinically significant adverse interactions. Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Enalapril maleate tablets attenuate potassium loss caused by thiazide-type diuretics. Potassium-sparing agents should generally not be used in patients with heart failure receiving enalapril maleate tablets. A few cases of lithium toxicity have been reported in patients receiving concomitant enalapril maleate tablets and lithium and were reversible upon discontinuation of both drugs. Gold Nitritoid reactions (symptoms include facial flushing, nausea, vomiting and hypotension) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold (sodium aurothiomalate) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including enalapril maleate tablets. Hypotension - Patients on Diuretic Therapy Patients on diuretics and especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted, may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with enalapril. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (as on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, use with NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, may result in deterioration of renal function, including renal failure. Monitor renal function periodically. ( 7.1 ) • Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension and hyperkalemia. ( 7.2 ) • Avoid potassium sparing agents in patients with heart failure. ( 7.3 ) • Monitor serum lithium levels frequently. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including enalapril, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. In this study, there was no evidence of a blunting of the antihypertensive action of enalapril maleate. 7.2 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. In most patients no benefit has been associated with using two RAS inhibitors concomitantly. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on enalapril maleate and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with enalapril maleate in patients with diabetes. 7.3 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Enalapril maleate attenuates potassium loss caused by thiazide-type diuretics. 7.4 Lithium Lithium toxicity has been reported in patients receiving enalapril and lithium concomitantly which was generally reversible. 7.5 Gold Nitritoid reactions (symptoms include facial flushing, nausea, vomiting, and hypotension) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold (sodium aurothiomalate) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including enalapril. 7.6 mTOR Inhibitors Patients taking concomitant mTOR inhibitor (e.g., temsirolimus, sirolimus, everolimus) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. 7.7 Neprilysin Inhibitor Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] .

=== MECLIZINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antiemetic
Indications: Uses For the prevention and treatment of nausea, vomiting or dizziness associated with motion sickness. For other uses consult your doctor Uses prevents and treats nausea, vomiting or dizziness associated with motion sickness Uses for the prevention and treatment of nausea, vomiting, or dizziness associated with motion sickness 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Meclizine hydrochloride is indicated for the treatment of vertigo associated with diseases affecting the vestibular system in adults. Meclizine hydrochloride is indicated for the treatment of vertigo associated with diseases affecting the vestibular system in adults. Use for prevention and treatment of these symptoms associated with motion sickness: nausea vomiting dizziness Uses prevents and treats nausea, vomiting or dizziness due to motion sickness. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Meclizine hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of vertigo associated with diseases affecting the vestibular system in adults. Meclizine hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of vertigo associated with diseases affecting the vestibular system in adults ( 1 ). Uses prevents and treats nausea, vomiting or dizziness due to motion sickness
Dosage: Directions take dose one hour before travel starts tablets can be chewed or swallowed whole with water adults & children 12 years and over: take 1-2 tablets once daily children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions dosage should be taken 1 hour before travel starts adults and children 12 years and over take 2 or 4 caplets once daily or as directed by a doctor Directions dosage should be taken one hour before travel starts chew or crush tablets completely before swallowing; do not swallow tablets whole adults and children 12 years and over: take 1 to 2 chewable tablets once daily or as directed by a doctor Directions do not take more than directed take first dose 1/2 to 1 hour before starting activity adults and children 12 years and over: 1 to 2 tablets once daily, or as directed by a doctor 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended dosage: 25 mg to 100 mg daily, in divided doses ( 2.1 ). Tablets: Swallow whole ( 2.2 ). Chewable Tablets: Must be chewed or crushed before swallowing; do not swallow whole ( 2.2 ). 2.1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage is 25 mg to 100 mg daily administered orally, in divided doses, depending upon clinical response. 2.2 Administration Instructions Tablets Meclizine hydrochloride tablets must be swallowed whole. Chewable Tablets Meclizine hydrochloride chewable tablets must be chewed or crushed completely before swallowing. Do not swallow chewable tablets whole. Directions take first dose 1/2 to 1 hour before starting activity adults and children 12 years and over: 1 to 2 tablets once daily, or as directed by a doctor Directions Dosage should be taken one hour before travel starts Adults and children 12 years and older: Chew 1-2 tablets once daily, or as directed by a doctor Children under 12 years: do not give this product to children under 12 years of age unless directed by a doctor Directions  Dosage should be taken one hour before travel starts adults and children 12 years of age and over chew 1 to 2 tablets once daily, or as directed by a doctor children under 12 years of age do not give this product to children under 12 years of age unless directed by a doctor
Warnings: Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have glaucoma a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis trouble urinating due to an elarged prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product you may get drowsy avoid alcoholic drinks alcohol, sedatives and tranquilizers may increse drowsiness be careful when driving a moor vehicle or operating machinery Warnings Do not use in children under 12 years of age unless directed by a doctor. Do not take unless directed by a doctor if you have glaucoma a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland Do not take if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers, without first consulting your doctor. When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage drowsiness may occur alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness avoid alcoholic drinks be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Ask a doctor before use if you have difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland glaucoma a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers. When using this product avoid alcoholic beverages alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness drowsiness may occur use caution when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Do not use for children under 12 years of age unless directed by a doctor. Ask a doctor before use if you have glaucoma difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers. When using this product drowsiness may occur avoid alcoholic beverages alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness use caution when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Warnings Do not give to children under 12 years of age unless directed by a doctor. Ask a doctor before use if you have a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis glaucoma trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilzers. When using this product drawsiness may occur avoid alcoholic drinks alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a doctor before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings Do not use in children under 12 years of age unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have glaucoma a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland Do not use in children under 12 years of age unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have  glaucoma  a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis  trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product  Do not exceed recommended dosage  may cause drowsiness  alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness  avoid alcoholic drinks  use caution when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Meclizine hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to meclizine or any of the inactive ingredients [see Adverse Reactions (6) and Description (11) ] . Meclizine hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to meclizine or any of the inactive ingredients. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Meclizine hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to meclizine or any of the inactive ingredients [see Adverse Reactions (6) and Description (11) ] . Meclizine hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to meclizine or any of the inactive ingredients ( 4 ).
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Coadministration of meclizine hydrochloride with other CNS depressants, including alcohol, may result in increased CNS depression ( 7.1 ). CYP2D6 inhibitors: As meclizine is metabolized by CYP2D6, there is a potential for drug-drug interactions between meclizine hydrochloride and CYP2D6 inhibitors ( 7.2 ). 7.1 CNS Depressants There may be increased CNS depression when meclizine hydrochloride is administered concurrently with other CNS depressants, including alcohol [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 7.2 CYP2D6 Inhibitors Based on in-vitro evaluation, meclizine is metabolized by CYP2D6. Therefore, there is a possibility for a drug interaction between meclizine hydrochloride and CYP2D6 inhibitors. Therefore, monitor for adverse reactions and clinical effect accordingly. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Co-administration of meclizine hydrochloride with other CNS depressants, including alcohol, may result in increased CNS depression ( 7.1 ).

=== FINASTERIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Fight primary cause of hair loss in men. Anti hair loss to help increase hair densityand volume. Fight primarycause ofhalr loss in men.Antihalrlosstohelpincreasehairdenslty andvolume.
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Finasteride tablets USP are indicated for the treatment of male pattern hair loss (androgenetic alopecia) in MEN ONLY. Efficacy in bitemporal recession has not been established. Finasteride tablets USP are not indicated for use in women. • Finasteride tablets USP are 5α-reductase inhibitors indicated for the treatment of male pattern hair loss (androgenetic alopecia) in MEN ONLY ( 1 ). • Finasteride tablets USP are not indicated for use in women ( 1 , 4 , 5.1 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Finasteride tablets are indicated for the treatment of male pattern hair loss (androgenetic alopecia) in MEN ONLY . Finasteride tablets are not indicated for use in women. Finasteride is a 5α-reductase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of male pattern hair loss (androgenetic alopecia) in MEN ONLY (1) . Finasteride tablets are not indicated for use in women ( 1 , 4 , 5.1 ). 1.1 Monotherapy Finasteride tablets are indicated for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) in men with an enlarged prostate to: - Improve symptoms - Reduce the risk of acute urinary retention - Reduce the risk of the need for surgery including transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) and prostatectomy. 1.2 Combination with Alpha-Blocker Finasteride tablets administered in combination with the alpha-blocker doxazosin is indicated to reduce the risk of symptomatic progression of BPH (a confirmed ≥ 4 point increase in American Urological Association (AUA) symptom score). 1.3 Limitations of Use Finasteride tablets are not approved for the prevention of prostate cancer. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Finasteride tablets is indicated for the treatment of male pattern hair loss (androgenetic alopecia) in MEN ONLY . Finasteride tablets is not indicated for use in women. • Finasteride tablets is a 5α-reductase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of male pattern hair loss (androgenetic alopecia) in MEN ONLY ( 1 ). • Finasteride tablets is not indicated for use in women ( 1 , 4 , 5.1 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Finasteride tablets is a 5α-reductase inhibitor, indicated for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) in men with an enlarged prostate to (1.1) : Improve symptoms Reduce the risk of acute urinary retention Reduce the risk of the need for surgery including transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) and prostatectomy. Finasteride tablets administered in combination with the alpha-blocker doxazosin is indicated to reduce the risk of symptomatic progression of BPH (a confirmed ≥4 point increase in American Urological Association (AUA) symptom score) (1.2) . Limitations of Use: Finasteride tablets is not approved for the prevention of prostate cancer (1.3) . 1.2 Combination with Alpha-Blocker Finasteride tablets administered in combination with the alpha-blocker doxazosin is indicated to reduce the risk of symptomatic progression of BPH (a confirmed ≥4 point increase in American Urological Association (AUA) symptom score). Fight primary cause of hair loss in men.Anti hair lossto help increase hair density and volume do not apply on other parts of the body. avoid contactwith eyes.In case of accidental contactrinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water. some people have experienced changes in hair colorand/or texture 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Finasteride tablets, are a 5α-reductase inhibitor, indicated for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) in men with an enlarged prostate to (1.1): • Improve symptoms • Reduce the risk of acute urinary retention • Reduce the risk of the need for surgery including transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) and prostatectomy. Finasteride tablets administered in combination with the alpha-blocker doxazosin is indicated to reduce the risk of symptomatic progression of BPH (a confirmed ≥4 point increase in American Urological Association (AUA) symptom score) (1.2). Limitations of Use: Finasteride tablets are not approved for the prevention of prostate cancer (1.3). 1.1 Monotherapy Finasteride tablets are indicated for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) in men with an enlarged prostate to: -Improve symptoms -Reduce the risk of acute urinary retention -Reduce the risk of the need for surgery including transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) and prostatectomy. Fight primarycause ofhalr loss in men.Antihalrlosstohelpincreasehairdenslty andvolume. Finasteride tablets is a 5α-reductase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of male pattern hair loss (androgenetic alopecia) in MEN ONLY ( 1 ). Finasteride tablets is not indicated for use in women ( 1 , 4 , 5.1 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Finasteride, is a 5α-reductase inhibitor, indicated for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) in men with an enlarged prostate to ( ): 1.1 Improve symptoms Reduce the risk of the need for surgery including transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) and prostatectomy. Finasteride administered in combination with the alpha-blocker doxazosin is indicated to reduce the risk of symptomatic progression of BPH (a confirmed ≥4 point increase in American Urological Association (AUA) symptom score) ( ). 1.2 : Finasteride is not approved for the prevention of prostate cancer ( ). Limitations of Use 1.3 1.2 Combination with Alpha-Blocker Finasteride tablets USP, 5 mg administered in combination with the alpha-blocker doxazosin is indicated to reduce the risk of symptomatic progression of BPH (a confirmed ≥4 point increase in American Urological Association (AUA) symptom score). 1.3 Limitations of Use Finasteride is not approved for the prevention of prostate cancer.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Finasteride tablets USP may be administered with or without meals. The recommended dose of finasteride tablets USP is one tablet (1 mg) taken once daily. In general, daily use for three months or more is necessary before benefit is observed. Continued use is recommended to sustain benefit, which should be re-evaluated periodically. Withdrawal of treatment leads to reversal of effect within 12 months. • Finasteride tablets USP may be administered with or without meals ( 2 ). • One tablet (1 mg) taken once daily ( 2 ). • In general, daily use for three months or more is necessary before benefit is observed ( 2 ). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Finasteride tablets may be administered with or without meals. The recommended dose of finasteride is one tablet (1 mg) taken once daily. Finasteride tablets may be administered with or without meals (2) . One tablet (1 mg) taken once daily (2) . In general, daily use for three months or more is necessary before benefit is observed (2) . Finasteride tablets may be administered with or without meals. 2.1 Monotherapy The recommended dose of finasteride tablet is one tablet (5 mg) taken once a day [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.1)]. 2.2 Combination with Alpha-Blocker The recommended dose of finasteride tablet is one tablet (5 mg) taken once a day in combination with the alpha-blocker doxazosin [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.2)]. The recommended dose of finasteride tablets, USP 1 mg is one tablet (1 mg) taken once daily. • Finasteride tablets may be administered with or without meals (2). • One tablet ( 1 mg ) taken once daily ( 2 ). Monotherapy: One tablet (5 mg) taken once a day (2.1) . Combination with Doxazosin: One tablet (5 mg) taken once a day in combination with the alpha-blocker doxazosin (2.2) . 2.1 Monotherapy The recommended dose of finasteride tablet is one tablet (5 mg) taken once a day [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . 2.2 Combination with Alpha-Blocker The recommended dose of finasteride tablets is one tablet (5 mg) taken once a day in combination with the alpha-blocker doxazosin [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1.PREP HANDSWITH COLD WATERRinse Your Fingers In Cold WaterAnd DryThem.note:Foam Will MeltOn Contact With Warm Surfaces. 2.OPEN CHILDRESISTANT CAP Be Sure To Align Arrow On The capWith Arrow On Blue Ring. Tilt CapBack And Pull Off. 3.DISPENSEVERTICALLYONTOACOLD SURFACE Hold The Can Straight UpsideDown.lf You Hold Thecan At AnAngle, Foam May Not DispenseProperly.Press Nozzle To DispenseHalfACapful Of Foam Onto ColdSurface(e.g.dish.or Cold Hands). 4.APPLYTOSCALP.NOT HAIR Part Your Hair To Expose Hair LossArea.Massage Foam Into ScalpNot Hair, Repeat UntilAll HairLossAreas Have Been Covered. 5.CLOSE CAP AND WASHHANDSsnap cap back into place be surearrows do not line up, so cap remainschild resistant, wash hands and anysurface thoroughly afteruse 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Finasteride tablets may be administered with or without meals. Finasteride tablets may be administered with or without meals (2). Monotherapy: One tablet (5 mg) taken once a day (2.1). Combination with Doxazosin: One tablet (5 mg) taken once a day in combination with the alpha-blocker doxazosin (2.2). 1.PREP HANDSWITH COLD WATERRinse Your Fingers inCald WaterAnd Doy Them note: Foam Wll MeltOn Contat WithWarmSurfacs. 2.OPENCHILD RESISTANTCAPBe Sure To Align Arrow On The CapWith Arrow On Blue Ring.Tit capBadkAnd Pull ot. 3.DISPENSEVERTICALLYONTOACOLDSURFACEHoldThe Can Staght UpsideDown.if You Hdd ThecanAtAnAngle, Foam May Nat DispansePoperhy, PressNozzie To Dispe nseHalfACapiu OfFoam Onto CaldSuface(e gdshorCod Hands). 4.APPLYTOSCALP, NOTHAIRPart Your Hair To Expose HairLossAra. Massage Foamhno Sedp.NotHair, Repeat UnslAllHar LossAras Have Been Covered. 5.CLOSE CAP AND WASHHANDSsn ap cap back into plaoe be surearows do notline up,socapmmanschid resistant, wash hands andamysurace thoroughly a feruse . One tablet ( 1 mg ) taken once daily ( 2 ). In general, daily use for three months or more is necessary before benefit is observed ( 2 ). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Finasteride tablets USP, 5 mg may be administered with or without meals. Finasteride may be administered with or without meals ( ). 2 Monotherapy: One tablet (5 mg) taken once a day ( ). 2.1 Combination with Doxazosin: One tablet (5 mg) taken once a day in combination with the alpha-blocker doxazosin ( ). 2.2 2.1 Monotherapy The recommended dose of finasteride tablets USP, 5 mg is one tablet (5 mg) taken once a day . [see ] Clinical Studies (14.1) 2.2 Combination with Alpha-Blocker The recommended dose of finasteride tablets USP, 5 mg is one tablet (5 mg) taken once a day in combination with the alpha-blocker doxazosin . [see ] Clinical Studies (14.2)
Warnings: For external use only For use by men only. Extremely Flammable Avoid fire, flame, or smoking during and immediatelyfollowing application. Forexternaluse only. Foruse by men only. Extremely Flammable. Avoid fire, flame, or smoking during andimmedlately following application.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Finasteride tablets USP are contraindicated in the following: • Pregnancy. Finasteride use is contraindicated in women when they are or may potentially be pregnant. Because of the ability of Type II 5α-reductase inhibitors to inhibit the conversion of testosterone to 5α-dihydrotestosterone (DHT), finasteride may cause abnormalities of the external genitalia of a male fetus of a pregnant woman who receives finasteride. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if pregnancy occurs while taking this drug, the pregnant woman should be apprised of the potential hazard to the male fetus. [ See Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.1) , How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16) and Patient Counseling Information (17.1) .] In female rats, low doses of finasteride administered during pregnancy have produced abnormalities of the external genitalia in male offspring. • Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication. • Pregnancy ( 4 , 5.1 , 8.1 , 16 ). • Hypersensitivity to any components of this product ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Finasteride tablets are contraindicated in the following: Pregnancy. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.1) , How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16) and Patient Counseling Information (17). ] In female rats, low doses of finasteride administered during pregnancy have produced abnormalities of the external genitalia in male offspring. Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication. Pregnancy (4, 5.1, 8.1, 16) . Hypersensitivity to any components of this product (4) . Finasteride tablets are contraindicated in the following: Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication. Pregnancy. Finasteride use is contraindicated in females when they are or may potentially be pregnant. Because of the ability of Type II 5α-reductase inhibitors to inhibit the conversion of testosterone to 5α-dihydrotestosterone (DHT), finasteride may cause abnormalities of the external genitalia of a male fetus of a pregnant female who receives finasteride. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if pregnancy occurs while taking this drug, the pregnant female should be apprised of the potential hazard to the male fetus. [See also WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.3), USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS (8.1), and HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING (16).] In female rats, low doses of finasteride administered during pregnancy have produced abnormalities of the external genitalia in male offspring. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Finasteride tablets is contraindicated in the following: • Pregnancy. [ See Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.1) , How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) and Patient Counseling Information (17) .] In female rats, low doses of finasteride administered during pregnancy have produced abnormalities of the external genitalia in male offspring. • Pregnancy (4 , 5.1 , 8.1 , 16 ). • Hypersensitivity to any components of this product (4). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Finasteride tablets are contraindicated in the following: Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication. [See also Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Use in Specific Populations (8.1) , How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16) and Patient Counseling Information (17.2) .] In female rats, low doses of finasteride administered during pregnancy have produced abnormalities of the external genitalia in male offspring. Women who are or may potentially be pregnant (4 , 5.4 , 8.1 , 16) . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Finasteride tablets are contraindicated in the following: • Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication. • Pregnancy. Hypersensitivity to any components of this product (4). Females who are or may potentially be pregnant (4, 5.3, 8.1, 16). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Finasteride tablets is contraindicated in the following: Pregnancy. Pregnancy (4 , 5.1 , 8.1 , 16 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Finasteride is contraindicated in the following: Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication. In female rats, low doses of finasteride administered during pregnancy have produced abnormalities of the external genitalia in male offspring. [See also , , and .] Warnings and Precautions (5.3) Use in Specific Populations (8.1) How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16) Patient Counseling Information (17.2) Hypersensitivity to any components of this product ( ). 4 Women who are or may potentially be pregnant ( , , , ). 4 5.4 8.1 16
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Cytochrome P450-Linked Drug Metabolizing Enzyme System No drug interactions of clinical importance have been identified. Finasteride does not appear to affect the cytochrome P450-linked drug-metabolizing enzyme system. Compounds that have been tested in man include antipyrine, digoxin, propranolol, theophylline, and warfarin and no clinically meaningful interactions were found. 7.2 Other Concomitant Therapy Although specific interaction studies were not performed, finasteride doses of 1 mg or more were concomitantly used in clinical studies with acetaminophen, acetylsalicylic acid, α-blockers, analgesics, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, anticonvulsants, benzodiazepines, beta blockers, calcium-channel blockers, cardiac nitrates, diuretics, H 2 antagonists, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors (also referred to as NSAIDs), and quinolone anti-infectives without evidence of clinically significant adverse interactions. 7.1 Cytochrome P450-Linked Drug Metabolizing Enzyme System No drug interactions of clinical importance have been identified. Finasteride does not appear to affect the cytochrome P450-linked drug metabolizing enzyme system. Compounds that have been tested in man have included antipyrine, digoxin, propranolol, theophylline, and warfarin and no clinically meaningful interactions were found. 7.2 Other Concomitant Therapy Although specific interaction studies were not performed, finasteride tablets was concomitantly used in clinical studies with acetaminophen, acetylsalicylic acid, α-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, analgesics, anti-convulsants, beta-adrenergic blocking agents, diuretics, calcium channel blockers, cardiac nitrates, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), benzodiazepines, H2 antagonists and quinolone anti-infectives without evidence of clinically significant adverse interactions. 7.2 Other Concomitant Therapy Although specific interaction studies were not performed, finasteride doses of 1 mg or more were concomitantly used in clinical studies with acetaminophen, acetylsalicylic acid, α-blockers, analgesics, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, anticonvulsants, benzodiazepines, beta blockers, calcium-channel blockers, cardiac nitrates, diuretics, H2 antagonists, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors (also referred to as NSAIDs), and quinolone anti-infectives without evidence of clinically significant adverse interactions. 7.2 Other Concomitant Therapy Although specific interaction studies were not performed, finasteride was concomitantly used in clinical studies with acetaminophen, acetylsalicylic acid, α-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, analgesics, anti-convulsants, beta-adrenergic blocking agents, diuretics, calcium channel blockers, cardiac nitrates, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), benzodiazepines, H 2 antagonists and quinolone anti-infectives without evidence of clinically significant adverse interactions. 7.2 Other Concomitant Therapy Although specific interaction studies were not performed, finasteride was concomitantly used in clinical studies with acetaminophen, acetylsalicylic acid, α-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, analgesics, anti-convulsants, beta-adrenergic blocking agents, diuretics, calcium channel blockers, cardiac nitrates, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), benzodiazepines, H antagonists and quinolone anti-infectives without evidence of clinically significant adverse interactions. 2

=== RISPERIDONE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Risperidone tablets are an atypical antipsychotic indicated for: Treatment of schizophrenia ( 1.1 ) As monotherapy or adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate, for the treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 1.2 ) Treatment of irritability associated with autistic disorder ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Schizophrenia Risperidone tablets are indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. Efficacy was established in 4 short-term trials in adults, 2 short-term trials in adolescents (ages 13 to 17 years), and one long-term maintenance trial in adults [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . 1.2 Bipolar Mania Monotherapy Risperidone tablets are indicated for the treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder. Efficacy was established in 2 short-term trials in adults and one short-term trial in children and adolescents (ages 10 to 17 years) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Adjunctive Therapy Risperidone tablets adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate is indicated for the treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder. Efficacy was established in one short-term trial in adults [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . 1.3 Irritability Associated with Autistic Disorder Risperidone tablets are indicated for the treatment of irritability associated with autistic disorder, including symptoms of aggression towards others, deliberate self-injuriousness, temper tantrums, and quickly changing moods. Efficacy was established in 3 short-term trials in children and adolescents (ages 5 to 17 years) [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Risperidone is an atypical antipsychotic indicated for: Treatment of schizophrenia ( 1.1 ) As monotherapy or adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate, for the treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 1.2 ) Treatment of irritability associated with autistic disorder ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Schizophrenia Risperidone tablets are indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. Adjunctive Therapy Risperidone adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate is indicated for the treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Risperidone tablets are an atypical antipsychotic indicated for: • Treatment of schizophrenia ( 1.1 ) • As monotherapy or adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate, for the treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 1.2 ) • Treatment of irritability associated with autistic disorder ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Schizophrenia Risperidone tablets are indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. 1.1 Schizophrenia Risperidone tablets are indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. Efficacy was established in 4 short-term trials in adults, 2 short-term trials in adolescents (ages 13 to 17 years), and one long-term maintenance trial in adults [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.1)]. Efficacy was established in 2 short-term trials in adults and one short-term trial in children and adolescents (ages 10 to 17 years) [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.2)]. Efficacy was established in one short-term trial in adults [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.3)]. Efficacy was established in 3 short-term trials in children and adolescents (ages 5 to 17 years) [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.4)]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Risperidone is an atypical antipsychotic indicated for: Treatment of schizophrenia ( 1.1 ) As monotherapy or adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate, for the treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 1.2 ) Treatment of irritability associated with autistic disorder ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Schizophrenia Risperidone is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. 1.2 Bipolar Mania Monotherapy Risperidone is indicated for the treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder. 1.3 Irritability Associated with Autistic Disorder Risperidone is indicated for the treatment of irritability associated with autistic disorder, including symptoms of aggression towards others, deliberate self-injuriousness, temper tantrums, and quickly changing moods. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Risperidone tablets are atypical antipsychotic indicated for: • Treatment of schizophrenia ( 1.1 ) • As monotherapy or adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate, for the treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 1.2 ) • Treatment of irritability associated with autistic disorder ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Schizophrenia Risperidone tablets are indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Risperidone is an atypical antipsychotic indicated for: • Treatment of schizophrenia ( 1.1 ) • As monotherapy or adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate, for the treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 1.2 ) • Treatment of irritability associated with autistic disorder ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Schizophrenia Risperidone is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. Efficacy was established in 4 short-term trials in adults, 2 short-term trials in adolescents (ages 13 to 17 years), and one long-term maintenance trial in adults [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Efficacy was established in 2 short-term trials in adults and one short-term trial in children and adolescents (ages 10 to 17 years) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . Efficacy was established in one short-term trial in adults [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . Efficacy was established in 3 short-term trials in children and adolescents (ages 5 to 17 years) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )] .
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Table 1. Recommended Daily Dosage by Indication Initial Dose Titration (Increments) Target Dose Effective Dose Range Schizophrenia: adults ( 2.1 ) 2 mg 1 to 2 mg 4 to 8 mg 4 to 16 mg Schizophrenia: adolescents ( 2.2 ) 0.5 mg 0.5 to 1 mg 3 mg 1 to 6 mg Bipolar mania: adults ( 2.2 ) 2 to 3 mg 1 mg 1 to 6 mg 1 to 6 mg Bipolar mania: children and adolescents ( 2.2 ) 0.5 mg 0.5 to 1 mg 1 to 2.5 mg 1 to 6 mg Irritability in autistic disorder ( 2.3 ) 0.25 mg Can increase to 0.5 mg by Day 4: (body weight less than 20 kg) 0.5 mg Can increase to 1 mg by Day 4: (body weight greater than or equal to 20 kg) After Day 4, at intervals of > 2 weeks: 0.25 mg (body weight less than 20 kg) 0.5 mg (body weight greater than or equal to 20 kg) 0.5 mg: (body weight less than 20 kg) 1 mg: (body weight greater than or equal to 20 kg) 0.5 to 3 mg Severe Renal and Hepatic Impairment in Adults: use a lower starting dose of 0.5 mg twice daily. May increase to dosages above 1.5 mg twice daily at intervals of one week or longer. Recommended daily dosage: Initial Dose Target Dose Effective Dose Range Schizophrenia: adults ( 2.1 ) 2 mg 4 to 8 mg 4 to 16 mg Schizophrenia: adolescents ( 2.1 ) 0.5 mg 3 mg 1 to 6 mg Bipolar mania: Adults ( 2.2 ) 2 to 3 mg 1 to 6 mg 1 to 6 mg Bipolar mania: in children and adolescents ( 2.2 ) 0.5 mg 1 to 2.5 mg 1 to 6 mg Irritability associated with autistic disorder ( 2.3 ) 0.25 mg (Weight < 20 kg) 0.5 mg (Weight ≥20 kg) 0.5 mg (<20 kg) 1 mg (≥20 kg) 0.5 to 3 mg Severe Renal or Hepatic Impairment in Adults: Use a lower starting dose of 0.5 mg twice daily. May increase to dosages above 1.5 mg twice daily at intervals of at least one week. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Schizophrenia Adults Usual Initial Dose Risperidone tablets can be administered once or twice daily. Initial dosing is 2 mg per day. May increase the dose at intervals of 24 hours or greater, in increments of 1 to 2 mg per day, as tolerated, to a recommended dose of 4 to 8 mg per day. In some patients, slower titration may be appropriate. Efficacy has been demonstrated in a range of 4 mg to 16 mg per day . However, doses above 6 mg per day for twice daily dosing were not demonstrated to be more efficacious than lower doses, were associated with more extrapyramidal symptoms and other adverse effects, and are generally not recommended. In a single study supporting once-daily dosing, the efficacy results were generally stronger for 8 mg than for 4 mg. The safety of doses above 16 mg per day has not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Adolescents The initial dose is 0.5 mg once daily, administered as a single-daily dose in the morning or evening. The dose may be adjusted at intervals of 24 hours or greater, in increments of 0.5 mg or 1 mg per day, as tolerated, to a recommended dose of 3 mg per day. Although efficacy has been demonstrated in studies of adolescent patients with schizophrenia at doses between 1 mg and 6 mg per day, no additional benefit was observed above 3 mg per day, and higher doses were associated with more adverse events. Doses higher than 6 mg per day have not been studied. Patients experiencing persistent somnolence may benefit from administering half the daily dose twice daily. Maintenance Therapy While it is unknown how long a patient with schizophrenia should remain on risperidone tablets, the effectiveness of risperidone tablets 2 mg per day to 8 mg per day at delaying relapse was demonstrated in a controlled trial in adult patients who had been clinically stable for at least 4 weeks and were then followed for a period of 1 to 2 years [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Both adult and adolescent patients who respond acutely should generally be maintained on their effective dose beyond the acute episode. Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment. Reinitiation of Treatment in Patients Previously Discontinued Although there are no data to specifically address reinitiation of treatment, it is recommended that after an interval off risperidone tablets, the initial titration schedule should be followed. Switching From Other Antipsychotics There are no systematically collected data to specifically address switching schizophrenic patients from other antipsychotics to risperidone tablets, or treating patients with concomitant antipsychotics. 2.2 Bipolar Mania Usual Dose Adults The inital dose range is 2 mg to 3 mg per day. The dose may be adjusted at intervals of 24 hours or greater, in increments of 1 mg per day. The effective dose range is 1 mg to 6 mg per day, as studied in the short-term, placebo-controlled trials. In these trials, short-term (3 week) anti-manic efficacy was demonstrated in a flexible dosage range of 1 mg to 6 mg per day [see Clinical Studies (14.2 , 14.3) ] . Risperidone tablets doses higher than 6 mg per day were not studied. Pediatrics The inital dose is 0.5 mg once daily, administered as a single-daily dose in the morning or evening. The dose may be adjusted at intervals of 24 hours or greater, in increments of 0.5 mg or 1 mg per day, as tolerated, to the recommended target dose of 1 mg to 2.5 mg per day. Although efficacy has been demonstrated in studies of pediatric patients with bipolar mania at doses between 0.5 mg and 6 mg per day, no additional benefit was observed above 2.5 mg per day, and higher doses were associated with more adverse events. Maintenance Therapy There is no body of evidence available from controlled trials to guide a clinician in the longer-term management of a patient who improves during treatment of an acute manic episode with risperidone tablets. While it is generally agreed that pharmacological treatment beyond an acute response in mania is desirable, both for maintenance of the initial response and for prevention of new manic episodes, there are no systematically obtained data to support the use of risperidone tablets in such longer-term treatment (i.e., beyond 3 weeks). The physician who elects to use risperidone tablets for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term risks and benefits of the drug for the individual patient. 2.3 Irritability Associated with Autistic Disorder - Pediatrics (Children and Adolescents) The dosage of risperidone tablets should be individualized according to the response and tolerability of the patient. The total daily dose of risperidone tablets can be administered once daily, or half the total daily dose can be administered twice daily. For patients with body weight less than 20 kg, initiate dosing at 0.25 mg per day. For patients with body weight greater than or equal to 20 kg, initiate dosing at 0.5 mg per day. After a minimum of four days, the dose may be increased to the recommended dose of 0.5 mg per day for patients less than 20 kg and 1.0 mg per day for patients greater than or equal to 20 kg. Maintain this dose for a minimum of 14 days. In patients not achieving sufficient clinical response, the dose may be increased at intervals of 2 weeks or greater, in increments of 0.25 mg per day for patients less than 20 kg, or increments of 0.5 mg per day for patients greater than or equal to 20 kg. The effective dose range is 0.5 mg to 3 mg per day. No dosing data are available for children who weigh less than 15 kg. Once sufficient clinical response has been achieved and maintained, consider gradually lowering the dose to achieve the optimal balance of efficacy and safety. Patients experiencing persistent somnolence may benefit from a once-daily dose administered at bedtime or administering half the daily dose twice daily, or a reduction of the dose. 2.4 Dosing in Patients with Severe Renal or Hepatic Impairment For patients with severe renal impairment (Clcr < 30 mL/min) or hepatic impairment (10-15 points on Child Pugh System), the initial starting dose is 0.5 mg twice daily. The dose may be increased in increments of 0.5 mg or less, administered twice daily. For doses above 1.5 mg twice daily, increase in intervals of one week or greater [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6 and 8.7) ] . 2.5 Dose Adjustments for Specific Drug Interactions When risperidone tablets are co-administered with enzyme inducers (e.g., carbamazepine), the dose of risperidone tablets should be increased up to double the patient’s usual dose. It may be necessary to decrease the risperidone tablets dose when enzyme inducers such as carbamazepine are discontinued [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Similar effect may be expected with co-administration of risperidone tablets with other enzyme inducers (e.g., phenytoin, rifampin, and phenobarbital). When fluoxetine or paroxetine is co-administered with risperidone tablets, the dose of risperidone tablets should be reduced. The risperidone tablets dose should not exceed 8 mg per day in adults when co-administered with these drugs. When initiating therapy, risperidone tablets should be titrated slowly. It may be necessary to increase the risperidone tablets dose when enzyme inhibitors such as fluoxetine or paroxetine are discontinued [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Recommended Daily Dosage by Indication Initial Dose Titration (Increments) Target Dose Effective Dose Range Schizophrenia: adults ( 2.1 ) 2 mg 1 to 2 mg 4 to 8 mg 4 to 16 mg Schizophrenia: adolescents ( 2.2 ) 0.5 mg 0.5 to 1 mg 3 mg 1 to 6 mg Bipolar mania: adults ( 2.2 ) 2 to 3 mg 1 mg 1 to 6 mg 1 to 6 mg Bipolar mania: children and adolescents ( 2.2 ) 0.5 mg 0.5 to 1 mg 1 to 2.5 mg 1 to 6 mg Irritability in autistic disorder ( 2.3 ) 0.25 mg Can increase to 0.5 mg by Day 4: (body weight less than 20 kg) After Day 4, at intervals of > 2 weeks: 0.25 mg (body weight less than 20 kg) 0.5 mg: (body weight less than 20 kg) 0.5 to 3 mg 0.5 mg Can increase to 1 mg by Day 4: (body weight greater than or equal to 20 kg) 0.5 mg (body weight greater than or equal to 20 kg) 1 mg: (body weight greater than or equal to 20 kg) Severe Renal and Hepatic Impairment in Adults: use a lower starting dose of 0.5 mg twice daily. Recommended daily dosage: Initial Dose Target Dose Effective Dose Range Schizophrenia: adults ( 2.1 ) 2 mg 4 to 8 mg 4 to 16 mg Schizophrenia: adolescents ( 2.1 ) 0.5 mg 3 mg 1 to 6 mg Bipolar mania: adults ( 2.2 ) 2 to 3 mg 1 to 6 mg 1 to 6 mg Bipolar mania: in children and adolescents ( 2.2 ) 0.5 mg 1 to 2.5 mg 1 to 6 mg Irritability associated with autistic disorder ( 2.3 ) 0.25 mg (Weight < 20 kg) 0.5 mg (Weight ≥ 20 kg) 0.5 mg (< 20 kg) 1 mg (≥ 20 kg) 0.5 to 3 mg Severe Renal or Hepatic Impairment in Adults: Use a lower starting dose of 0.5 mg twice daily. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Schizophrenia Adults Usual Initial Dose Risperidone can be administered once or twice daily. Efficacy has been demonstrated in a range of 4 mg to 16 mg per day. The safety of doses above 16 mg per day has not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Although efficacy has been demonstrated in studies of adolescent patients with schizophrenia at doses between 1 mg to 6 mg per day, no additional benefit was observed above 3 mg per day, and higher doses were associated with more adverse events. Maintenance Therapy While it is unknown how long a patient with schizophrenia should remain on risperidone, the effectiveness of risperidone 2 mg per day to 8 mg per day at delaying relapse was demonstrated in a controlled trial in adult patients who had been clinically stable for at least 4 weeks and were then followed for a period of 1 to 2 years [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Reinitiation of Treatment in Patients Previously Discontinued Although there are no data to specifically address reinitiation of treatment, it is recommended that after an interval off Risperidone, the initial titration schedule should be followed. Switching From Other Antipsychotics There are no systematically collected data to specifically address switching schizophrenic patients from other antipsychotics to Risperidone, or treating patients with concomitant antipsychotics. 2.2 Bipolar Mania Usual Dose Adults The initial dose range is 2 mg to 3 mg per day. The effective dose range is 1 mg to 6 mg per day, as studied in the short-term, placebocontrolled trials. Risperidone doses higher than 6 mg per day were not studied. Pediatrics The initial dose is 0.5 mg once daily, administered as a single-daily dose in the morning or evening. Maintenance Therapy There is no body of evidence available from controlled trials to guide a clinician in the longer-term management of a patient who improves during treatment of an acute manic episode with risperidone. While it is generally agreed that pharmacological treatment beyond an acute response in mania is desirable, both for maintenance of the initial response and for prevention of new manic episodes, there are no systematically obtained data to support the use of risperidone in such longer-term treatment (i.e., beyond 3 weeks). The physician who elects to use risperidone for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term risks and benefits of the drug for the individual patient. 2.3 Irritability Associated with Autistic Disorder- Pediatrics (Children and Adolescents) The dosage of risperidone should be individualized according to the response and tolerability of the patient. The total daily dose of risperidone can be administered once daily, or half the total daily dose can be administered twice daily. 2.4 Dosing in Patients with Severe Renal or Hepatic Impairment For patients with severe renal impairment (Cl cr < 30 mL/min) or hepatic impairment (10-15 points on Child Pugh System), the initial starting dose is 0.5 mg twice daily. 2.5 Dose Adjustments for Specific Drug Interactions When risperidone is co-administered with enzyme inducers (e.g., carbamazepine), the dose of risperidone should be increased up to double the patient's usual dose. It may be necessary to decrease the risperidone dose when enzyme inducers such as carbamazepine are discontinued [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Similar effect may be expected with co-administration of risperidone with other enzyme inducers (e.g., phenytoin, rifampin, and phenobarbital). When fluoxetine or paroxetine is co-administered with risperidone, the dose of risperidone should be reduced. The risperidone dose should not exceed 8 mg per day in adults when co-administered with these drugs. When initiating therapy, risperidone should be titrated slowly. It may be necessary to increase the risperidone dose when enzyme inhibitors such as fluoxetine or paroxetine are discontinued [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Recommended Daily Dosage by Indication Initial Dose Titration (Increments) Target Dose Effective Dose Range Schizophrenia: adults ( 2.1 ) 2 mg 1 to 2 mg 4 to 8 mg 4 to 16 mg Schizophrenia: adolescents ( 2.2 ) 0.5 mg 0.5 to 1 mg 3 mg 1 to 6 mg Bipolar mania: adults ( 2.2 ) 2 to 3 mg 1 mg 1 to 6 mg 1 to 6 mg Bipolar mania: children and adolescents ( 2.2 ) 0.5 mg 0.5 to 1 mg 1 to 2.5 mg 1 to 6 mg Irritability in autistic disorder ( 2.3 ) 0.25 mg Can increase to 0.5 mg by Day 4: (body weight less than 20 kg) 0.5 mg Can increase to 1 mg by Day 4: (body weight greater than or equal to 20 kg) After Day 4, at Interval of > 2 weeks: 0.25 mg (body weight less than 20 kg) 0.5 mg (body weight greater than or equal to 20 kg) 0.5 mg: (body weight less than 20 kg) 1 mg: (body weight greater than or equal to 20 kg) 0.5 to 3 mg Severe Renal and Hepatic Impairment in Adults: use a lower starting dose of 0.5 mg twice daily. May increase to dosages above 1.5 mg twice daily at intervals of at one week or longer • Recommended daily dosage: Initial Dose Target Dose Effective Dose Range Schizophrenia: adults ( 2.1 ) 2 mg 4 to 8 mg 4 to 16 mg Schizophrenia: adolescents ( 2.1 ) 0.5 mg 3 mg 1 to 6 mg Bipolar mania: adults ( 2.2 ) 2 to 3 mg 1 to 6 mg 1 to 6 mg Bipolar mania: in children and adolescents ( 2.2 ) 0.5 mg 1 to 2.5 mg 1 to 6 mg Irritability associated with autistic disorder ( 2.3 ) 0.25 mg (Weight <20 kg) 0.5 mg (Weight ≥20 kg) 0.5 mg (<20 kg) 1 mg (≥20 kg) 0.5 to 3 mg • Severe Renal or Hepatic Impairment in Adults: Use a lower starting dose of 0.5 mg twice daily. Although efficacy has been demonstrated in studies of adolescent patients with schizophrenia at doses between 1 mg and 6 mg per day, no additional benefit was seen above 3 mg per day, and higher doses were associated with more adverse events. Table 1. Recommended Daily Dosage by Indication Initial Dose Titration (Increments) Target Dose Effective Dose Range Schizophrenia: adults (2.1) 2 mg 1 to 2 mg 4 to 8 mg 4 to 16 mg Schizophrenia: adolescents (2.2) 0.5 mg 0.5 to 1 mg 3 mg 1 to 6 mg Bipolar mania: adults (2.2) 2 to 3 mg 1 mg 1 to 6 mg 1 to 6 mg Bipolar mania: children and adolescents (2.2) 0.5 mg 0.5 to 1 mg 1 to 2.5 mg 1 to 6 mg Irritability in autistic disorder (2.3) 0.25 mg Can increase to 0.5 mg by Day 4: (body weight less than 20 kg) 0.5 mg Can increase to 1 mg by Day 4: (body weight greater than or equal to 20 kg) After Day 4, at intervals of > 2 weeks: 0.25 mg (body weight less than 20 kg) 0.5 mg (body weight greater than or equal to 20 kg) 0.5 mg: (body weight less than 20 kg) 1 mg: (body weight greater than or equal to 20 kg) 0.5 to 3 mg Severe Renal and Hepatic Impairment in Adults: use a lower starting dose of 0.5 mg twice daily. 2.1 Schizophrenia Adults Usual Initial Dose Risperidone tablets can be administered once or twice daily. The safety of doses above 16 mg per day has not been evaluated in clinical trials [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.1)]. Maintenance Therapy While it is unknown how long a patient with schizophrenia should remain on risperidone tablets, the effectiveness of risperidone tablets 2 mg per day to 8 mg per day at delaying relapse was demonstrated in a controlled trial in adult patients who had been clinically stable for at least 4 weeks and were then followed for a period of 1 to 2 years [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.1)]. In these trials, short-term (3 week) anti-manic efficacy was demonstrated in a flexible dosage range of 1 mg to 6 mg per day [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.2,14.3)]. For doses above 1.5 mg twice daily, increase in intervals of one week or greater [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS (8.6 and 8.7)]. It may be necessary to decrease the risperidone tablets dose when enzyme inducers such as carbamazepine are discontinued [see DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.1)]. It may be necessary to increase the risperidone tablets dose when enzyme inhibitors such as fluoxetine or paroxetine are discontinued [see DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.1)]. Recommended Daily Dosage by Indication Initial Dose Titration (Increments) Target Dose Effective Dose Range Schizophrenia: adults ( 2.1 ) 2 mg 1 to 2 mg 4 to 8 mg 4 to 16 mg Schizophrenia: adolescents ( 2.2 ) 0.5 mg 0.5 to 1 mg 3 mg 1 to 6 mg Bipolar mania: adults ( 2.2 ) 2 to 3 mg 1 mg 1 to 6 mg 1 to 6 mg Bipolar mania: children and adolescents ( 2.2 ) 0.5 mg 0.5 to 1 mg 1 to 2.5 mg 1 to 6 mg Irritability in autistic disorder ( 2.3 ) 0.25 mg Can increase to 0.5 mg by Day 4: (body weight less than 20 kg) 0.5 mg Can increase to 1 mg by Day 4: (body weight greater than or equal to 20 kg) After Day 4, at intervals of greater than 2 weeks: 0.25 mg (body weight less than 20 kg) 0.5 mg (body weight greater than or equal to 20 kg) 0.5 mg: (body weight less than 20 kg) 1 mg: (body weight greater than or equal to 20 kg) 0.5 to 3 mg Severe Renal and Hepatic Impairment in Adults: use a lower starting dose of 0.5 mg twice daily. Recommended daily dosage: Initial Dose Target Dose Effective Dose Range Schizophrenia: adults ( 2.1 ) 2 mg 4 to 8 mg 4 to 16 mg Schizophrenia: adolescents ( 2.1 ) 0.5 mg 3 mg 1 to 6 mg Bipolar mania: adults ( 2.2 ) 2 to 3 mg 1 to 6 mg 1 to 6 mg Bipolar mania: in children and adolescents ( 2.2 ) 0.5 mg 1 to 2.5 mg 1 to 6 mg Irritability associated with autistic disorder ( 2.3 ) 0.25 mg (Weight less than 20 kg) 0.5 mg (Weight greater than or equal to 20 kg) 0.5 mg (less than 20 kg) 1 mg (greater than or equal to 20 kg) 0.5 to 3 mg Severe Renal or Hepatic Impairment in Adults: Use a lower starting dose of 0.5 mg twice daily. In these trials, short-term (3 week) anti-manic efficacy was demonstrated in a flexible dosage range of 1 mg to 6 mg per day [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 , 14.3 )] . 2.3 Irritability Associated with Autistic Disorder – Pediatrics (Children and Adolescents) The dosage of risperidone should be individualized according to the response and tolerability of the patient. 2.4 Dosing in Patients with Severe Renal or Hepatic Impairment For patients with severe renal impairment (CLcr less than 30 mL/min) or hepatic impairment (10 to 15 points on Child Pugh System), the initial starting dose is 0.5 mg twice daily. For doses above 1.5 mg twice daily, increase in intervals of one week or greater [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 and 8.7 )]. 2.5 Dose Adjustments for Specific Drug Interactions When risperidone is co-administered with enzyme inducers (e.g., carbamazepine), the dose of risperidone should be increased up to double the patient’s usual dose. • Recommended daily dosage: Initial Dose Target Dose Effective Dose Range Schizophrenia: adults ( 2.1 ) 2 mg 4 to 8 mg 4 to 16 mg Schizophrenia: adolescents ( 2.1 ) 0.5 mg 3 mg 1 to 6 mg Bipolar mania: Adults ( 2.2 ) 2 to 3 mg 1 to 6 mg 1 to 6 mg Bipolar mania: in children and adolescents ( 2.2 ) 0.5 mg 1 to 2.5 mg 1 to 6 mg Irritability associated with autistic disorder ( 2.3 ) 0.25 mg (Weight < 20 kg) 0.5 mg (Weight ≥20 kg) 0.5 mg (<20 kg) 1 mg (≥20 kg) 0.5 to 3 mg • Severe Renal or Hepatic Impairment in Adults: Use a lower starting dose of 0.5 mg twice daily. • Recommended daily dosage: Initial Dose Target Dose Effective Dose Range Schizophrenia: adults (2.1) 2 mg 4 to 8 mg 4 to 16 mg Schizophrenia: adolescents (2.1) 0.5 mg 3 mg 1 to 6 mg Bipolar mania: Adults (2.2) 2 to 3 mg 1 to 6 mg 1 to 6 mg Bipolar mania: in children and adolescents (2.2) 0.5 mg 1 to 2.5 mg 1 to 6 mg Irritability associated with autistic disorder (2.3) 0.25 mg (Weight < 20 kg) 0.5 mg (Weight 20 kg) 0.5 mg (< 20 kg) 1 mg (20 kg) 0.5 to 3 mg • Severe Renal or Hepatic Impairment in Adults: Use a lower starting dose of 0.5 mg twice daily. ( 2.4 ) • Oral Solution: Can be administered directly from calibrated oral dosing syringe or mixed with beverage (water, coffee, orange juice, or low-fat milk). ( 2.6 ) 2.1 Schizophrenia Adults Usual Initial Dose Risperidone Oral Solution can be administered once or twice daily. The safety of doses above 16 mg per day has not been evaluated in clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Maintenance Therapy While it is unknown how long a patient with schizophrenia should remain on risperidone, the effectiveness of risperidone 2 mg per day to 8 mg per day at delaying relapse was demonstrated in a controlled trial in adult patients who had been clinically stable for at least 4 weeks and were then followed for a period of 1 to 2 years [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . 2.4 Dosing in Patients with Severe Renal or Hepatic Impairment For patients with severe renal impairment (Clcr < 30 mL/min) or hepatic impairment (10 to 15 points on Child Pugh System), the initial starting dose is 0.5 mg twice daily. For doses above 1.5 mg twice daily, increase in intervals of one week or greater [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 and 8.7 )] . It may be necessary to decrease the risperidone dose when enzyme inducers such as carbamazepine are discontinued [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . Similar effect may be expected with co‑administration of risperidone with other enzyme inducers (e.g., phenytoin, rifampin, and phenobarbital). It may be necessary to increase the risperidone dose when enzyme inhibitors such as fluoxetine or paroxetine are discontinued [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . 2.6 Administration of Risperidone Oral Solution Risperidone Oral Solution can be administered directly from the calibrated oral dosing syringe, or can be mixed with a beverage prior to administration. Risperidone Oral Solution is compatible in the following beverages: water, coffee, orange juice, and low-fat milk; it is NOT compatible with either cola or tea.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Risperidone tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to either risperidone or paliperidone, or to any of the excipients in the risperidone tablets formulation. Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactic reactions and angioedema, have been reported in patients treated with risperidone and in patients treated with paliperidone. Paliperidone is a metabolite of risperidone. Known hypersensitivity to risperidone, paliperidone, or to any excipients in risperidone tablets. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Risperidone is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to either risperidone or paliperidone, or to any of the excipients in the risperidone formulation. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Risperidone tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to the risperidone tablets. Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactic reactions and angioedema, have been observed in patients treated with risperidone. • Known hypersensitivity to risperidone tablets ( 4 ) Risperidone tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to either risperidone or paliperidone, or to any of the excipients in the risperidone tablets formulation. Known hypersensitivity to risperidone, paliperidone, or to any excipients in risperidone. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Risperidone Oral Solution is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to either risperidone or paliperidone, or to any of the excipients in the risperidone Oral Solution formulation. • Known hypersensitivity to risperidone, paliperidone, or to any excipients in risperidone oral solution.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Carbamazepine and other enzyme inducers decrease plasma concentrations of risperidone. Increase the risperidone tablets dose up to double the patient’s usual dose. Titrate slowly. ( 7.1 ) Fluoxetine, paroxetine, and other CYP 2D6 enzyme inhibitors increase plasma concentrations of risperidone. Reduce the initial dose. Do not exceed a final dose of 8 mg per day of risperidone tablets. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Pharmacokinetic-related Interactions The dose of risperidone tablets should be adjusted when used in combination with CYP2D6 enzyme inhibitors (e.g., fluoxetine, and paroxetine) and enzyme inducers (e.g., carbamazepine) [see Table 18 and Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Dose adjustment is not recommended for risperidone tablets when co-administered with ranitidine, cimetidine, amitriptyline, or erythromycin [see Table 18 ] . Table 18. Summary of Effect of Coadministered Drugs on Exposure to Active Moiety (Risperidone + 9-Hydroxy-Risperidone) in Healthy Subjects or Patients with Schizophrenia Coadministered Drug Dosing Schedule Effect on Active Moiety (Risperidone + 9- Hydroxy- Risperidone (Ratio*) Risperidone Dose Recommendation Coadministered Drug Risperidone AUC C max Enzyme (CYP2D6) inhibitors Fluoxetine 20 mg/day 2 or 3 mg twice daily 1.4 1.5 Re-evaluate dosing. Do not exceed 8 mg/day Paroxetine 10 mg/day 4 mg/day 1.3 - Re-evaluate dosing. Do not exceed 8 mg/day 20 mg/day 4 mg/day 1.6 - 40 mg/day 4 mg/day 1.8 - Enzyme (CYP3A/ PgP inducers) Inducers Carbamazepine 573 ± 168 mg/day 3 mg twice daily 0.51 0.55 Titrate dose upwards. Do not exceed twice the patient’s usual dose Enzyme (CYP3A) inhibitors Ranitidine 150 mg twice daily 1 mg single dose 1.2 1.4 Dose adjustment not needed Cimetidine 400 mg twice daily 1 mg single dose 1.1 1.3 Dose adjustment not needed Erythromycin 500 mg four times daily 1 mg single dose 1.1 0.94 Dose adjustment not needed Other Drugs Amitriptyline 50 mg twice daily 3 mg twice daily 1.2 1.1 Dose adjustment not Needed *Change relative to reference Effect of Risperidone on other drugs Lithium Repeated oral doses of risperidone tablets (3 mg twice daily) did not affect the exposure (AUC) or peak plasma concentrations (C max) of lithium (n=13). Dose adjustment for lithium is not recommended. Valproate Repeated oral doses of risperidone tablets (4 mg once daily) did not affect the pre-dose or average plasma concentrations and exposure (AUC) of valproate (1000 mg/day in three divided doses) compared to placebo (n=21). However, there was a 20% increase in valproate peak plasma concentration (C max) after concomitant administration of risperidone tablets. Dose adjustment for valproate is not recommended. Digoxin Risperidone tablets (0.25 mg twice daily) did not show a clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin. Dose adjustment for digoxin is not recommended. 7.2 Pharmacodynamic-related Interactions Centrally Acting Drugs and Alcohol Given the primary CNS effects of risperidone, caution should be used when risperidone tablets are taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs and alcohol. Drugs with Hypotensive Effects Because of its potential for inducing hypotension, risperidone tablets may enhance the hypotensive effects of other therapeutic agents with this potential. Levodopa and Dopamine Agonists Risperidone tablets may antagonize the effects of levodopa and dopamine agonists. Methylphenidate Concomitant use with methylphenidate, when there is change in dosage of either medication, may increase the risk of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS). Monitor for symptoms of EPS with concomitant use of risperidone tablets and methylphenidate [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )]. Clozapine Chronic administration of clozapine with risperidone tablets may decrease the clearance of risperidone. Increase the risperidone dose up to double the patient's usual dose. Do not exceed a final dose of 8 mg per day of risperidone. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Pharmacokinetic-related Interactions The dose of risperidone should be adjusted when used in combination with CYP2D6 enzyme inhibitors (e.g., fluoxetine, and paroxetine) and enzyme inducers (e.g., carbamazepine) [see Table 18 and Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Dose adjustment is not recommended for risperidone when co-administered with ranitidine, cimetidine, amitriptyline, or erythromycin [see Table 18 ] . Summary of Effect of Coadministered Drugs on Exposure to Active Moiety (Risperidone + 9-Hydroxy-Risperidone) in Healthy Subjects or Patients with Schizophrenia Coadministered Drug Dosing Schedule Effect on Active Moiety (Risperidone + 9-Hydroxy-Risperidone (Ratio Change relative to reference ) Risperidone Dose Recommendation Coadministered Drug Risperidone AUC C max Enzyme (CYP2D6) Inhibitors Fluoxetine 20 mg/day 2 or 3 mg twice daily 1.4 1.5 Re-evaluate dosing. Do not exceed twice the patient's usual dose Enzyme (CYP3A) Inhibitors Ranitidine 150 mg twice daily 1 mg single dose 1.2 1.4 Dose adjustment not needed Cimetidine 400 mg twice daily 1 mg single dose 1.1 1.3 Dose adjustment not needed Erythromycin 500 mg four times daily 1 mg single dose 1.1 0.94 Dose adjustment not needed Other Drugs Amitriptyline 50 mg twice daily 3 mg twice daily 1.2 1.1 Dose adjustment not needed Effect of Risperidone on Other Drugs Lithium Repeated oral doses of risperidone (3 mg twice daily) did not affect the exposure (AUC) or peak plasma concentrations (C max ) of lithium (n=13). Valproate Repeated oral doses of risperidone (4 mg once daily) did not affect the pre-dose or average plasma concentrations and exposure (AUC) of valproate (1000 mg/day in three divided doses) compared to placebo (n=21). However, there was a 20% increase in valproate peak plasma concentration (C max ) after concomitant administration of risperidone. Dose adjustment for valproate is not recommended Digoxin Risperidone (0.25 mg twice daily) did not show a clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin. 7.2 Pharmacodynamic-related Interactions Centrally Acting Drugs and Alcohol Given the primary CNS effects of risperidone, caution should be used when risperidone is taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs and alcohol. Drugs with Hypotensive Effects Because of its potential for inducing hypotension, risperidone may enhance the hypotensive effects of other therapeutic agents with this potential. Levodopa and Dopamine Agonists Risperidone may antagonize the effects of levodopa and dopamine agonists. Monitor for symptoms of EPS with concomitant use of risperidone and methylphenidate [See Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. Clozapine Chronic administration of clozapine with risperidone may decrease the clearance of risperidone. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Carbamazepine and other enzyme inducers decrease plasma concentrations of risperidone. ( 7.1 ) • Fluoxetine, paroxetine, and other CYP 2D6 enzyme inhibitors increase plasma concentrations of risperidone. Table 8 Summary of Effect of Coadministered Drugs on Exposure to Active Moiety (Risperidone + 9-Hydroxy-Risperidone) in Healthy Subjects or Patients with Schizophrenia *Change relative to reference Coadministered Drug Dosing Schedule Effect on Active Moiety (Risperidone + 9- Hydroxy- Risperidone (Ratio*) Risperidone Dose Recommendation Coadministered Drug Risperidone AUC Cmax Enzyme (CYP2D6)inhibitors Fluoxetine 20 mg/day 2 or 3 mg twice daily 1.4 1.5 Re-evaluate dosing. Do not exceed twice the patient’s usual dose Enzyme (CYP3A) inhibitors Ranitidine 150 mg twice daily 1 mg single dose 1.2 1.4 Dose adjustment not needed Cimetidine 400 mg twice daily 1 mg single dose 1.1 1.3 Dose adjustment not needed Erythromycin 500 mg four times daily 1 mg single dose 1.1 0.94 Dose adjustment not needed Other Drugs Amitriptyline 50 mg twice daily 3 mg twice daily 1.2 1.1 Dose adjustment not Needed Effect of risperidone on other drugs Lithium Repeated oral doses of risperidone tablets (3 mg twice daily) did not affect the exposure (AUC) or peak plasma concentrations (C max ) of lithium (n=13). However, there was a 20% increase in valproate peak plasma concentration (C max ) after concomitant administration of risperidone tablets. 7.2 Pharmacodynamic-related Interactions Centrally-Acting Drugs and Alcohol Given the primary CNS effects of risperidone, caution should be used when risperidone tablets are taken in combination with other centrally-acting drugs and alcohol. Do not exceed twice the patient’s usual dose Enzyme (CYP3A) inhibitors Ranitidine 150 mg twice daily 1 mg single dose 1.2 1.4 Dose adjustment not needed Cimetidine 400 mg twice daily 1 mg single dose 1.1 1.3 Dose adjustment not needed Erythromycin 500 mg four times daily 1 mg single dose 1.1 0.94 Dose adjustment not needed Other Drugs Amitriptyline 50 mg twice daily 3 mg twice daily 1.2 1.1 Dose adjustment not Needed *Change relative to reference Effect of Risperidone on other drugs Lithium Repeated oral doses of risperidone tablets (3 mg twice daily) did not affect the exposure (AUC) or peak plasma concentrations (C max ) of lithium (n=13). 7.1 Pharmacokinetic-related Interactions The dose of risperidone tablets should be adjusted when used in combination with CYP2D6 enzyme inhibitors (e.g., fluoxetine, and paroxetine) and enzyme inducers (e.g., carbamazepine) [see Table 18 and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.5)]. Dose adjustment is not recommended for risperidone tablets when co-administered with ranitidine, cimetidine, amitriptyline, or erythromycin [see Table 18 ]. Summary of Effect of Coadministered Drugs on Exposure to Active Moiety (Risperidone + 9-Hydroxy-Risperidone) in Healthy Subjects or Patients with Schizophrenia *Change relative to reference Coadministered Drug Dosing Schedule Effect on Active Moiety (Risperidone + 9- Hydroxy- Risperidone (Ratio*) Risperidone Dose Recommendation Coadministered Drug Risperidone AUC Cmax Enzyme (CYP2D6) inhibitors Fluoxetine 20 mg/day 2 or 3 mg twice daily 1.4 1.5 Re-evaluate dosing. Do not exceed twice the patient’s usual dose Enzyme (CYP3A) inhibitors Ranitidine 150 mg twice daily 1 mg single dose 1.2 1.4 Dose adjustment not needed Cimetidine 400 mg twice daily 1 mg single dose 1.1 1.3 Dose adjustment not needed Erythromycin 500 mg four times daily 1 mg single dose 1.1 0.94 Dose adjustment not needed Other Drugs Amitriptyline 50 mg twice daily 3 mg twice daily 1.2 1.1 Dose adjustment not Needed Effect of Risperidone on other drugs Lithium Repeated oral doses of risperidone tablets (3 mg twice daily) did not affect the exposure (AUC) or peak plasma concentrations (Cmax) of lithium (n=13). However, there was a 20% increase in valproate peak plasma concentration (Cmax) after concomitant administration of risperidone tablets. Monitor for symptoms of EPS with concomitant use of risperidone tablets and methylphenidate [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Pharmacokinetic-related Interactions The dose of risperidone tablets should be adjusted when used in combination with CYP2D6 enzyme inhibitors (e.g., fluoxetine, and paroxetine) and enzyme inducers (e.g., carbamazepine) [see Table 18 and Dosage and Administration (2.5)]. 7. DRUG INTERACTIONS Carbamazepine and other enzyme inducers decrease plasma concentrations of risperidone. Increase the risperidone dose up to double the patient’s usual dose. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Pharmacokinetic-related Interactions The dose of risperidone should be adjusted when used in combination with CYP2D6 enzyme inhibitors (e.g., fluoxetine, and paroxetine) and enzyme inducers (e.g., carbamazepine) [see Table 18 and Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] . Dose adjustment is not recommended for risperidone when co-administered with ranitidine, cimetidine, amitriptyline, or erythromycin [see Table 18]. Summary of Effect of Coadministered Drugs on Exposure to Active Moiety (Risperidone + 9-Hydroxy-Risperidone) in Healthy Subjects or Patients with Schizophrenia Coadministered Drug Dosing Schedule Effect on Active Moiety (Risperidone + 9-Hydroxy-Risperidone (Ratio*) Risperidone Dose Recommendation Coadministered Drug Risperidone AUC C max Enzyme (CYP2D6) Inhibitors Fluoxetine 20 mg/day 2 or 3 mg twice daily 1.4 1.5 Re-evaluate dosing. Do not exceed twice the patient’s usual dose Enzyme (CYP3A) Inhibitors Ranitidine 150 mg twice daily 1 mg single dose 1.2 1.4 Dose adjustment not needed Cimetidine 400 mg twice daily 1 mg single dose 1.1 1.3 Dose adjustment not needed Erythromycin 500 mg four times daily 1 mg single dose 1.1 0.94 Dose adjustment not needed Other Drugs Amitriptyline 50 mg twice daily 3 mg twice daily 1.2 1.1 Dose adjustment not needed *Change relative to reference Effect of Risperidone on Other Drugs Lithium Repeated oral doses of risperidone (3 mg twice daily) did not affect the exposure (AUC) or peak plasma concentrations (C max ) of lithium (n=13). Valproate Repeated oral doses of risperidone (4 mg once daily) did not affect the pre-dose or average plasma concentrations and exposure (AUC) of valproate (1,000 mg/day in three divided doses) compared to placebo (n=21). Digoxin Risperidone (0.25 mg twice daily) did not show a clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Pharmacokinetic-related Interactions The dose of risperidone should be adjusted when used in combination with CYP2D6 enzyme inhibitors (e.g., fluoxetine, and paroxetine) and enzyme inducers (e.g., carbamazepine) [see Table 18 and Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )] . Dose adjustment is not recommended for risperidone when co-administered with ranitidine, cimetidine, amitriptyline, or erythromycin [see Table 18] . Table 18 Summary of Effect of Coadministered Drugs on Exposure to Active Moiety (Risperidone + 9-Hydroxy-Risperidone) in Healthy Subjects or Patients with Schizophrenia Coadministered Drug Dosing Schedule Effect on Active Moiety (Risperidone + 9-Hydroxy-Risperidone (Ratio*) Risperidone Dose Recommendation Coadministered Drug Risperidone AUC C max Enzyme (CYP2D6) Inhibitors Fluoxetine 20 mg/day 2 or 3 mg twice daily 1.4 1.5 Re-evaluate dosing. Do not exceed twice the patient’s usual dose Enzyme (CYP3A) Inhibitors Ranitidine 150 mg twice daily 1 mg single dose 1.2 1.4 Dose adjustment not needed Cimetidine 400 mg twice daily 1 mg single dose 1.1 1.3 Dose adjustment not needed Erythromycin 500 mg four times daily 1 mg single dose 1.1 0.94 Dose adjustment not needed Other Drugs Amitriptyline 50 mg twice daily 3 mg twice daily 1.2 1.1 Dose adjustment not needed * Change relative to reference Effect of Risperidone on Other Drugs Lithium Repeated oral doses of risperidone (3 mg twice daily) did not affect the exposure (AUC) or peak plasma concentrations (C max ) of lithium (n=13). Monitor for symptoms of EPS with concomitant use of risperidone and methylphenidate [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] .

=== CIPROFLOXACIN HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ciprofloxacin Ophthalmic Solution is indicated for the treatment of infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms in the conditions listed below: Corneal Ulcers: Pseudomonas aeruginosa Serratia marcescens * Staphylococcus aureus Staphylococcus epidermidis Streptococcus pneumoniae Streptococcus (Viridans Group) * Conjunctivitis: Haemophilus influenzae Staphylococcus aureus Staphylococcus epidermidis Streptococcus pneumoniae *Efficacy for this organism was studied in fewer than 10 infections. INDICATIONS AND USAGE: CILOXAN ® (ciprofloxacin ophthalmic ointment) 0.3% is indicated for the treatment of bacterial conjunctivitis caused by susceptible strains of the microorganisms listed below: Gram-Positive: Staphylococcus aureus Staphylococcus epidermidis Streptococcus pneumoniae Streptococcus Viridans Group Gram-Negative: Haemophilus influenzae 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ciprofloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibacterial indicated in adults (18 years of age and older) with the following infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria and in pediatric patients where indicated: Skin and Skin Structure Infections ( 1.1 ) Bone and Joint Infections ( 1.2 ) Complicated Intra-Abdominal Infections ( 1.3 ) Infectious Diarrhea ( 1.4 ) Typhoid Fever (Enteric Fever) ( 1.5 ) Uncomplicated Cervical and Urethral Gonorrhea ( 1.6 ) Inhalational Anthrax post-exposure in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.7 ) Plague in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.8 ) Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis ( 1.9 ) Lower Respiratory Tract Infections ( 1.10 ) o Acute Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis Urinary Tract Infections ( 1.11 ) o Urinary Tract Infections (UTI) o Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis o Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis in Pediatric Patients Acute Sinusitis ( 1.12 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ciprofloxacin and other antibacterial drugs, ciprofloxacin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.13 ) 1.1 Skin and Skin Structure Infections Ciprofloxacin is indicated in adult patients for treatment of skin and skin structure infections caused by Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Enterobacter cloacae , Proteus mirabilis , Proteus vulgaris , Providencia stuartii , Morganella morganii , Citrobacter freundii , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus , methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis , or Streptococcus pyogenes . 1.2 Bone and Joint Infections Ciprofloxacin is indicated in adult patients for treatment of bone and joint infections caused by Enterobacter cloacae, Serratia marcescens, or Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 1.3 Complicated Intra-Abdominal Infections Ciprofloxacin is indicated in adult patients for treatment of complicated intra-abdominal infections (used in combination with metronidazole) caused by Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Proteus mirabilis, Klebsiella pneumoniae, or Bacteroides fragilis. 1.4 Infectious Diarrhea Ciprofloxacin is indicated in adult patients for treatment of infectious diarrhea caused by Escherichia coli (enterotoxigenic isolates), Campylobacter jejuni , Shigella boydii † , Shigella dysenteriae , Shigella flexneri or Shigella sonnei † when antibacterial therapy is indicated. † Although treatment of infections due to this organism in this organ system demonstrated a clinically significant outcome, efficacy was studied in fewer than 10 patients. 1.5 Typhoid Fever (Enteric Fever) Ciprofloxacin is indicated in adult patients for treatment of typhoid fever (enteric fever) caused by Salmonella typhi . The efficacy of ciprofloxacin in the eradication of the chronic typhoid carrier state has not been demonstrated. 1.6 Uncomplicated Cervical and Urethral Gonorrhea Ciprofloxacin is indicated in adult patients for treatment of uncomplicated cervical and urethral gonorrhea due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17) ]. 1.7 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) Ciprofloxacin is indicated in adults and pediatric patients from birth to 17 years of age for inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) to reduce the incidence or progression of disease following exposure to aerosolized Bacillus anthracis. Ciprofloxacin serum concentrations achieved in humans served as a surrogate endpoint reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit and provided the initial basis for approval of this indication. 1 Supportive clinical information for ciprofloxacin for anthrax post-exposure prophylaxis was obtained during the anthrax bioterror attacks of October 2001 [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1.8 Plague Ciprofloxacin is indicated for treatment of plague, including pneumonic and septicemic plague, due to Yersinia pestis (Y. pestis) and prophylaxis for plague in adults and pediatric patients from birth to 17 years of age. Efficacy studies of ciprofloxacin could not be conducted in humans with plague for feasibility reasons. Therefore this indication is based on an efficacy study conducted in animals only [ see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . 1.9 Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis Ciprofloxacin is indicated in adult patients for treatment of chronic bacterial prostatitis caused by Escherichia coli or Proteus mirabilis . 1.10 Lower Respiratory Tract Infections Ciprofloxacin is indicated in adult patients for treatment of lower respiratory tract infections caused by Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Enterobacter cloacae , Proteus mirabilis , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Haemophilus influenzae , Haemophilus parainfluenzae , or Streptococcus pneumoniae . Ciprofloxacin is not a drug of first choice in the treatment of presumed or confirmed pneumonia secondary to Streptococcus pneumoniae . Ciprofloxacin is indicated for the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis (AECB) caused by Moraxella catarrhalis . Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1–5.16) ] and for some patients AECB is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin for treatment of AECB in patients who have no alternative treatment options. 1.11 Urinary Tract Infections Urinary Tract Infections in Adults Ciprofloxacin is indicated in adult patients for treatment of urinary tract infections caused by Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Enterobacter cloacae , Serratia marcescens , Proteus mirabilis , Providencia rettgeri , Morganella morganii , Citrobacter koseri , Citrobacter freundii , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis , Staphylococcus saprophyticus , or Enterococcus faecalis . Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis Ciprofloxacin is indicated in adult female patients for treatment of acute uncomplicated cystitis caused by Escherichia coli or Staphylococcus saprophyticus . Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1-5.16) ] and for some patients acute uncomplicated cystitis is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of acute uncomplicated cystitis in patients who have no alternative treatment options. Complicated Urinary Tract Infection and Pyelonephritis in Pediatric Patients Ciprofloxacin is indicated in pediatric patients aged one to 17 years of age for treatment of complicated urinary tract infections (cUTI) and pyelonephritis due to Escherichia coli [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. Although effective in clinical trials, ciprofloxacin is not a drug of first choice in the pediatric population due to an increased incidence of adverse reactions compared to controls, including reactions related to joints and/or surrounding tissues. Ciprofloxacin, like other fluoroquinolones, is associated with arthropathy and histopathological changes in weight-bearing joints of juvenile animals [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) , Adverse Reactions (6.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Nonclinical Toxicology (13.2) ]. 1.12 Acute Sinusitis Ciprofloxacin is indicated in adult patients for treatment of acute sinusitis caused by Haemophilus influenzae , Streptococcus pneumoniae , or Moraxella catarrhalis . Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1-5.16) ] and for some patients acute sinusitis is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin for treatment of acute sinusitis in patients who have no alternative treatment options. 1.13 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ciprofloxacin and other antibacterial drugs, ciprofloxacin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. If anaerobic organisms are suspected of contributing to the infection, appropriate therapy should be administered. Appropriate culture and susceptibility tests should be performed before treatment in order to isolate and identify organisms causing infection and to determine their susceptibility to ciprofloxacin. Therapy with ciprofloxacin may be initiated before results of these tests are known; once results become available appropriate therapy should be continued. As with other drugs, some isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa may develop resistance fairly rapidly during treatment with ciprofloxacin. Culture and susceptibility testing performed periodically during therapy will provide information not only on the therapeutic effect of the antimicrobial agent but also on the possible emergence of bacterial resistance. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Click here to enter Indications Ciprofloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibacterial indicated in adults (18 years of age and older) with the following infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria and in pediatric patients where indicated: • Skin and Skin Structure Infections ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. ) • Bone and Joint Infections ( Error! ) • Complicated Intra-Abdominal Infections ( Error! ) • Infectious Diarrhea ( Error! ) • Typhoid Fever (Enteric Fever) ( Error! ) • Uncomplicated Cervical and Urethral Gonorrhea ( Error! ) • Inhalational Anthrax post-exposure in adult and pediatric patients ( Error! ) • Plague in adult and pediatric patients ( Error! ) • Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis ( Error! ) • Lower Respiratory Tract Infections ( Error! ) • Acute Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis • Urinary Tract Infections ( Error! ) • Urinary Tract Infections (UTI) • Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis • Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis in Pediatric Patients • Acute Sinusitis ( Error! ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ciprofloxacin and other antibacterial drugs, ciprofloxacin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( Error! ) 1.1 Skin and Skin Structure Infections Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of skin and skin structure infections caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterobacter cloacae, Proteus mirabilis, Proteus vulgaris, Providencia stuartii, Morganella morganii, Citrobacter freundii, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis, or Streptococcus pyogenes. 1.2 Bone and Joint Infections Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of bone and joint infections caused by Enterobacter cloacae, Serratia marcescens, or Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 1.3 Complicated Intra-Abdominal Infections Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of complicated intra-abdominal infections (used in combination with metronidazole) caused by Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Proteus mirabilis, Klebsiella pneumoniae, or Bacteroides fragilis . 1.4 Infectious Diarrhea Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of infectious diarrhea caused by Escherichia coli (enterotoxigenic isolates), Campylobacter jejuni, Shigella boydii † , Shigella dysenteriae, Shigella flexneri or Shigella sonnei † when antibacterial therapy is indicated. 1.5 Typhoid Fever (Enteric Fever) Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of typhoid fever (enteric fever)caused by Salmonella typhi. 1.6 Uncomplicated Cervical and Urethral Gonorrhea Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of uncomplicated cervical and urethral gonorrhea due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae [see Warnings and Precautions ( Error! )]. 1.7 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adults and pediatric patients from birth to 17 years of age for inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) to reduce the incidence or progression of disease following exposure to aerosolized Bacillus anthracis. 1 Supportive clinical information for ciprofloxacin for anthrax post-exposure prophylaxis was obtained during the anthrax bioterror attacks of October 2001 [see Clinical Studies ( Error! 1.8 Plague Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated for treatment of plague, including pneumonic and septicemic plague, due to Yersinia pestis (Y. Therefore this indication is based on an efficacy study conducted in animals only [see Clinical Studies ( Error! )] . 1.9 Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of chronic bacterial prostatitis caused by Escherichia coli or Proteus mirabilis. 1.10 Lower Respiratory Tract Infections Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of lower respiratory tract infections caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterobacter cloacae, Proteus mirabilis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, or Streptococcus pneumoniae. Ciprofloxacin tablets are not a drug of first choice in the treatment of presumed or confirmed pneumonia secondary to Streptococcus pneumoniae. Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated for the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis (AECB) caused by Moraxella catarrhalis. Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( Error! – Error! )] and for some patients AECB is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of AECB in patients who have no alternative treatment options. 1.11 Urinary Tract Infections Urinary Tract Infections in Adults Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of urinary tract infections caused by Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Enterobacter cloacae , Serratia marcescens , Proteus mirabilis , Providencia rettgeri , Morganella morganii , Citrobacter koseri , Citrobacter freundii , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis , Staphylococcus saprophyticus , or Enterococcus faecalis . Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult female patients for treatment of acute uncomplicated cystitis caused by Escherichia coli or Staphylococcus saprophyticus. - Error! )] and for some patients acute uncomplicated cystitis is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of acute uncomplicated cystitis in patients who have no alternative treatment options. Complicated Urinary Tract Infection and Pyelonephritis in Pediatric Patients Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in pediatric patients aged one to 17 years of age for treatment of complicated urinary tract infections (cUTI) and pyelonephritis due to Escherichia coli [see Use in Specific Populations ( Error! Although effective in clinical trials, ciprofloxacin tablets are not a drug of first choice in the pediatric population due to an increased incidence of adverse reactions compared to controls, including reactions related to joints and/or surrounding tissues . Ciprofloxacin tablets, like other fluoroquinolones, are associated with arthropathy and histopathological changes in weight-bearing joints of juvenile animals [see Warnings and Precautions ( Error! ), Adverse Reactions ( Error! ), Use in Specific Populations ( Error! ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( Error! 1.12 Acute Sinusitis Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of acute sinusitis caused by Haemophilus influenzae, Streptococcus pneumoniae, or Moraxella catarrhalis. )] and for some patients acute sinusitis is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of acute sinusitis in patients who have no alternative treatment options . 1.13 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ciprofloxacin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, ciprofloxacin tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Therapy with ciprofloxacin tablets may be initiated before results of these tests are known; once results become available appropriate therapy should be continued. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ciprofloxacin tablet is a fluoroquinolone antibacterial indicated in adults (18 years of age and older) with the following infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria and in pediatric patients where indicated: Skin and Skin Structure Infections (1.1) Bone and Joint Infections (1.2) Complicated Intra-Abdominal Infections (1.3) Infectious Diarrhea (1.4) Typhoid Fever (Enteric Fever) (1.5) Uncomplicated Cervical and Urethral Gonorrhea (1.6) Inhalational Anthrax post-exposure in adult and pediatric patients (1.7) Plague in adult and pediatric patients (1.8) Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis (1.9) Lower Respiratory Tract Infections (1.10) Acute Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis Urinary Tract Infections (1.11) Urinary Tract Infections (UTI) Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis in Pediatric Patients Acute Sinusitis (1.12) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ciprofloxacin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, ciprofloxacin tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. (1.13) 1.1 Skin and Skin Structure Infections Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of skin and skin structure infections caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterobacter cloacae, Proteus mirabilis, Proteus vulgaris, Providencia stuartii, Morganella morganii, Citrobacter freundii, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis, or Streptococcus pyogenes. 1.2 Bone and Joint Infections Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of bone and joint infections caused by Enterobacter cloacae, Serratia marcescens , or Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 1.3 Complicated Intra-Abdominal Infections Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of complicated intra-abdominal infections (used in combination with metronidazole) caused by Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Proteus mirabilis, Klebsiella pneumoniae, or Bacteroides fragilis. 1.5 Typhoid Fever (Enteric Fever) Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of typhoid fever (enteric fever) caused by Salmonella typhi . 1.6 Uncomplicated Cervical and Urethral Gonorrhea Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of uncomplicated cervical and urethral gonorrhea due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17) ]. 1.7 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adults and pediatric patients from birth to 17 years of age for inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) to reduce the incidence or progression of disease following exposure to aerosolized Bacillus anthracis . Therefore this indication is based on an efficacy study conducted in animals only [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. 1.9 Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of chronic bacterial prostatitis caused by Escherichia coli or Proteus mirabilis . Ciprofloxacin tablets are not a drug of first choice in the treatment of presumed or confirmed pneumonia secondary to Streptococcus pneumoniae . Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin tablets, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 to 5.16) ] and for some patients AECB is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of AECB in patients who have no alternative treatment options. 1.11 Urinary Tract Infections Urinary Tract Infections in Adults Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of urinary tract infections caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterobacter cloacae, Serratia marcescens, Proteus mirabilis, Providencia rettgeri, Morganella morganii, Citrobacter koseri, Citrobacter freundii, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis, Staphylococcus saprophyticus, or Enterococcus faecalis. Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin tablets, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 to 5.16) ] and for some patients acute uncomplicated cystitis is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of acute uncomplicated cystitis in patients who have no alternative treatment options. Complicated Urinary Tract Infection and Pyelonephritis in Pediatric Patients Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in pediatric patients aged one to 17 years of age for treatment of complicated urinary tract infections (cUTI) and pyelonephritis due to Escherichia coli [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. Although effective in clinical trials, ciprofloxacin tablets are not a drug of first choice in the pediatric population due to an increased incidence of adverse reactions compared to controls, including reactions related to joints and/or surrounding tissues. Ciprofloxacin tablets, like other fluoroquinolones, is associated with arthropathy and histopathological changes in weight-bearing joints of juvenile animals [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) , Adverse Reactions (6.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Nonclinical Toxicology (13.2) ] . 1.12 Acute Sinusitis Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of acute sinusitis caused by Haemophilus influenzae, Streptococcus pneumoniae, or Moraxella catarrhalis . Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin tablets, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 to 5.16) ] and for some patients acute sinusitis is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of acute sinusitis in patients who have no alternative treatment options. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ciprofloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibacterial indicated in adults (18 years of age and older) with the following infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria and in pediatric patients where indicated: Skin and Skin Structure Infections ( 1.1 ) Bone and Joint Infections ( 1.2 ) Complicated Intra-Abdominal Infections ( 1.3 ) Infectious Diarrhea ( 1.4 ) Typhoid Fever (Enteric Fever) ( 1.5 ) Uncomplicated Cervical and Urethral Gonorrhea ( 1.6 ) Inhalational Anthrax post-exposure in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.7 ) Plague in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.8 ) Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis ( 1.9 ) Lower Respiratory Tract Infections ( 1.10 ) Acute Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis Urinary Tract Infections ( 1.11 ) Urinary Tract Infections (UTI) Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis in Pediatric Patients Acute Sinusitis ( 1.12 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ciprofloxacin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, ciprofloxacin tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.13 ) 1.1 Skin and Skin Structure Infections Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of skin and skin structure infections caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterobacter cloacae, Proteus mirabilis, Proteus vulgaris, Providencia stuartii, Morganella morganii, Citrobacter freundii, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis, or Streptococcus pyogenes. 1.4 Infectious Diarrhea Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of infectious diarrhea caused by Escherichia coli (enterotoxigenic isolates), Campylobacter jejuni, Shigella boydii Although treatment of infections due to this organism in this organ system demonstrated a clinically significant outcome, efficacy was studied in fewer than 10 patients. , Shigella dysenteriae, Shigella flexneri or Shigella sonnei when antibacterial therapy is indicated. 1.5 Typhoid Fever (Enteric Fever) Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of typhoid fever (enteric fever) caused by Salmonella typhi. 1.6 Uncomplicated Cervial and Urethral Gonorrhea Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of uncomplicated cervical and urethral gonorrhea due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17) ]. 1.7 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adults and pediatric patients from birth to 17 years of age for inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) to reduse the incidence or progression of disease following exposure to aerosolized Bacillus anthracis. 1 Supportive clinical information for ciprofloxacin for anthrax post-exposure prophylaxis was obtained during the anthrax bioerror attacks of October 2001 [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1.8 Plague Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated for treatment of plague, including pheumonic and septicemic plague, due to Yersinia pestis (Y. 1.10 Lower Respiratory Tract Infections Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of lower respiratory tract infections caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterobacter cloacae, Proteus mirabilis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Haemophilus infuenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, or Streptococcus pneumoniae. Ciprofloxacin is not a drug of first choice in the treatment of presumed or confirmed pneumonia secondary to Streptococcus pneumoniae. Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin tablets, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 - 5.16) ] and for some patients AECB is sefl-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of AECB in patients who have no alternative treatment options. 1.11 Urinary Tract Infections Urinary Tract Infections in Adults Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of urinary tract infections caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pheumoniae, Enterobacter cloacae, Serratia marcescens, Proteus mirabilis, Providencia rettgeri, Morganella morganii, Citrobacter koseri, Citrobacter freundii, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis, Staphylococcus saprophyticus, or Enterococcus faecalis. Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin tablets, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 - 5.16) ] and for some patients acute uncomplicated cystitis is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatmentof acute uncomplicated cystitis in patients who have no alternative treatment options. Cirpofloxacin tablets, like other fluoroquinolones, is associated with arthropathy and histopathological changes in weight-bearing joints of juvenile animals [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) , Adverse Reactions (6.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Nonclinical Toxicology (13.2) ]. Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin tablets, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 - 5.16) ] and for some patients acute sinusitis is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of acute sinusitis in patients who have no alternative treatment options. As with other drugs, some isolates of Pseadumonas aeruginosa may develop resistance failry rapidly during treatment with ciprofloxacin. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ciprofloxacin 0.3% and dexamethasone 0.1% otic suspension is indicated for the treatment of infections caused by susceptible isolates of the designated microorganisms in the specific conditions listed below: Acute Otitis Media (AOM) in pediatric patients (age 6 months and older) with tympanostomy tubes due to Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis , and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Acute Otitis Externa (AOE) in pediatric (age 6 months and older), adult, and elderly patients due to Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa . Ciprofloxacin 0.3% and dexamethasone 0.1% otic suspension is a combination of ciprofloxacin, a fluoroquinolone antibacterial and dexamethasone, a corticosteroid, indicated for the treatment of infections caused by susceptible isolates of the designated microorganisms in the specific conditions listed below: • Acute Otitis Media (AOM) in pediatric patients (age 6 months and older) with tympanostomy tubes due to Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis , and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. ( 1 ) • Acute Otitis Externa (AOE) in pediatric (age 6 months and older), adult and elderly patients due to Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa . ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ciprofloxacin tablet is a fluoroquinolone antibacterial indicated in adults (18 years of age and older) with the following infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria and in pediatric patients where indicated: Skin and Skin Structure Infections ( 1.1 ) Bone and Joint Infections ( 1.2 ) Complicated Intra-Abdominal Infections ( 1.3 ) Infectious Diarrhea ( 1.4 ) Typhoid Fever (Enteric Fever) ( 1.5 ) Uncomplicated Cervical and Urethral Gonorrhea ( 1.6 ) Inhalational Anthrax post-exposure in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.7 ) Plague in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.8 ) Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis ( 1.9 ) Lower Respiratory Tract Infections ( 1.10 ) Acute Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis Urinary Tract Infections ( 1.11 ) Urinary Tract Infections (UTI) Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis in Pediatric Patients Acute Sinusitis ( 1.12 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ciprofloxacin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, ciprofloxacin tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.13 ) 1.1 Skin and Skin Structure Infections Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of skin and skin structure infections caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterobacter cloacae, Proteus mirabilis, Proteus vulgaris, Providencia stuartii, Morganella morganii, Citrobacter freundii, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, methicillin-­susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis, or Streptococcus pyogenes. 1.6 Uncomplicated Cervical and Urethral Gonorrhea Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of uncomplicated cervical and urethral gonorrhea due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17) ] . 1 Supportive clinical information for ciprofloxacin for anthrax post-exposure prophylaxis was obtained during the anthrax bioterror attacks of October 2001 [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Therefore this indication is based on an efficacy study conducted in animals only [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Click here to enter Indications Ciprofloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibacterial indicated in adults (18 years of age and older) with the following infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria and in pediatric patients where indicated: • Skin and Skin Structure Infections ( 1.1 ) • Bone and Joint Infections ( 1.2 ) • Complicated Intra-Abdominal Infections ( 1.3 ) • Infectious Diarrhea ( 1.4 ) • Typhoid Fever (Enteric Fever) ( 1.5 ) • Uncomplicated Cervical and Urethral Gonorrhea ( 1.6 ) • Inhalational Anthrax post-exposure in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.7 ) • Plague in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.8 ) • Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis ( 1.9 ) • Lower Respiratory Tract Infections ( 1.10 ) • Acute Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis • Urinary Tract Infections ( 1.11 ) • Urinary Tract Infections (UTI) • Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis • Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis in Pediatric Patients • Acute Sinusitis ( 1.12 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ciprofloxacin and other antibacterial drugs, ciprofloxacin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. 1.6 Uncomplicated Cervical and Urethral Gonorrhea Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of uncomplicated cervical and urethral gonorrhea due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.17 )]. 1 Supportive clinical information for ciprofloxacin for anthrax post-exposure prophylaxis was obtained during the anthrax bioterror attacks of October 2001 [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. Therefore this indication is based on an efficacy study conducted in animals only [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 – 5.16 )] and for some patients AECB is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of AECB in patients who have no alternative treatment options. Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 - 5.16 )] and for some patients acute uncomplicated cystitis is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of acute uncomplicated cystitis in patients who have no alternative treatment options. Complicated Urinary Tract Infection and Pyelonephritis in Pediatric Patients Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in pediatric patients aged one to 17 years of age for treatment of complicated urinary tract infections (cUTI) and pyelonephritis due to Escherichia coli [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] . Ciprofloxacin tablets, like other fluoroquinolones, are associated with arthropathy and histopathological changes in weight-bearing joints of juvenile animals [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13.2 )]. Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 - 5.16 )] and for some patients acute sinusitis is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of acute sinusitis in patients who have no alternative treatment options . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ciprofloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibacterial indicated in adults (18 years of age and older) with the following infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria and in pediatric patients where indicated: • Skin and Skin Structure Infections ( 1.1 ) • Bone and Joint Infections ( 1.2 ) • Complicated Intra-Abdominal Infections ( 1.3 ) • Infectious Diarrhea ( 1.4 ) • Typhoid Fever (Enteric Fever) ( 1.5 ) • Uncomplicated Cervical and Urethral Gonorrhea ( 1.6 ) • Inhalational Anthrax post-exposure in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.7) • Plague in adult and pediatric patients ( 1.8 ) • Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis ( 1.9 ) • Lower Respiratory Tract Infections ( 1.10 ) • Acute Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis • Urinary Tract Infections ( 1.11 ) • Urinary Tract Infections (UTI) • Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis • Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis in Pediatric Patients • Acute Sinusitis ( 1.12 ) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ciprofloxacin and other antibacterial drugs, ciprofloxacin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. 1.10 Lower Respiratory Tract Infections Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult patients for treatment of lower respiratory tract infections caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterobacter cloacae, Proteus mirabilis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, or Streptococcus pneumoniae . Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1–5.16 )] and for some patients AECB is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of AECB in patients who have no alternative treatment options . Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis Ciprofloxacin tablets are indicated in adult female patients for treatment of acute uncomplicated cystitis caused by Escherichia coli or S taphylococcus saprophyticus. Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 .1-5.16)] and for some patients acute uncomplicated cystitis is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of acute uncomplicated cystitis in patients who have no alternative treatment options. Because fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1-5.15 )] and for some patients acute sinusitis is self-limiting, reserve ciprofloxacin tablets for treatment of acute sinusitis in patients who have no alternative treatment options .
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Corneal Ulcers: The recommended dosage regimen for the treatment of corneal ulcers is two drops into the affected eye every 15 minutes for the first six hours and then two drops into the affected eye every 30 minutes for the remainder of the first day. On the second day, instill two drops in the affected eye hourly. On the third through the fourteenth day, place two drops in the affected eye every four hours. Treatment may be continued after 14 days if corneal re-epithelialisation has not occurred. Bacterial Conjunctivitis: The recommended dosage regimen for the treatment of bacterial conjunctivitis is one or two drops instilled into the conjunctival sac(s) every two hours while awake for two days and one or two drops every four hours while awake for the next five days. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Apply a ½ inch ribbon into the conjunctival sac three times a day on the first two days, then apply a ½ inch ribbon two times a day for the next five days. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Ciprofloxacin tablets should be administered orally as described in the appropriate Dosage Guidelines tables. Adult Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Skin and Skin Structure 500-750mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500-750mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra-Abdominal 500mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectious Diarrhea 500mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Gonorrhea 250mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) 500mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 500-750mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract 500-750mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract 250-500mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500mg every 12 hours 10 days Adults with creatinine clearance 3050 mL/min 250500 mg q 12 h ( 2.3 ) Adults with creatinine clearance 529 mL/min 250500 mg q 18 h ( 2.3 ) Patients on hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis 250500 mg q 24 h (after dialysis) ( 2.3 ) Pediatric Oral Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis (1 to 17 years of age) 10-20 mg/kg (maximum 750 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 10 - 21 days Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 60 days Plague 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 8 to 12 hours 14 days 2.1 Dosage in Adults The determination of dosage and duration for any particular patient must take into consideration the severity and nature of the infection, the susceptibility of the causative microorganism, the integrity of the patient's host-defense mechanisms, and the status of renal and hepatic function. Ciprofloxacin tablets may be administered to adult patients when clinically indicated at the discretion of the physician. Table1: Adult Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Usual Duration Generally ciprofloxacin should be continued for at least 2 days after the signs and symptoms of infection have disappeared, except for inhalational anthrax (post-exposure). Skin and Skin Structure 500-750mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500-750mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra-Abdominal Used in conjunction with metronidazole. 500mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectious Diarrhea 500mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Gonorrhea 250mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) Begin drug administration as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure. 500mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 500-750mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract 500-750mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract 250-500mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500mg every 12 hours 10 days Conversion of IV to Oral Dosing in Adults Patients whose therapy is started with ciprofloxacin IV may be switched to ciprofloxacin tablets or oral suspension when clinically indicated at the discretion of the physician (Table 2) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Table 2: Equivalent AUC Dosing Regimens Ciprofloxacin Oral Dosage Equivalent Ciprofloxacin IV Dosage 250 mg Tablet every 12 hours 200 mg intravenous every 12 hours 500 mg Tablet every 12 hours 400 mg intravenous every 12 hours 750 mg Tablet every 12 hours 400 mg intravenous every 8 hours 2.2 Dosage in Pediatric Patients Dosing and initial route of therapy (that is, IV or oral) for cUTI or pyelonephritis should be determined by the severity of the infection. Ciprofloxacin should be administered as described in Table 3. Table 3: Pediatric Oral Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Total Duration Complicated Urinary Tract or Pyelonephritis (patients from 1 to 17 years of age) 10 mg/kg to 20 mg/kg (maximum 750 mg per dose; not to be exceeded even in patients weighing more than 51 kg). Every 12 hours 10 - 21 days The total duration of therapy for cUTI and pyelonephritis in the clinical trial was determined by the physician. the mean duration of treatment was 11 days (range 10 to 21 days). Inhalational Anthrax (Post- Exposure) Begin drug administration as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure. 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 60 days Plague Begin drug administration as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure to Y. pestis. 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 8 to 12 hours 14 days 2.3 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Renal Impairment Ciprofloxacin is eliminated primarily by renal excretion; however, the drug is also metabolized and partially cleared through the biliary system of the liver and through the intestine. These alternative pathways of drug elimination appear to compensate for the reduced renal excretion in patients with renal impairment. Nonetheless, some modification of dosage is recommended, particularly for patients with severe renal dysfunction. Dosage guidelines for use in patients with renal impairment are shown in Table 4. Table 4: Recommended Starting and Maintenance Doses for Adult Patients with Impaired Renal Function Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Dose >50 See Usual Dosage 30 -50 250 – 500 mg every 12 hours 5 - 29 250 – 500 mg every 18 hours Patients on hemodialysis or Peritoneal dialysis 250 – 500 mg every 24 hours (after dialysis) When only the serum creatinine concentration is known, the following formulas may be used to estimate creatinine clearance: Men - Creatinine clearance (mL/min) = Weight (kg) x (140-age) 72 x serum creatinine (mg/dL) Women - 0.85 x the value calculated for men. The serum creatinine should represent a steady state of renal function. In patients with severe infections and severe renal impairment, a unit dose of 750 mg may be administered at the intervals noted above. Patients should be carefully monitored. Pediatric patients with moderate to severe renal insufficiency were excluded from the clinical trial of cUTI and pyelonephritis. No information is available on dosing adjustments necessary for pediatric patients with moderate to severe renal insufficiency (that is, creatinine clearance of < 50 mL/min/1.73m 2 ). 2.4 Important Administration Instructions With Multivalent Cations Administer ciprofloxacin tablets at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after magnesium/aluminum antacids; polymeric phosphate binders (for example, sevelamer, lanthanum carbonate) or sucralfate; Videx ® (didanosine) chewable/buffered tablets or pediatric powder for oral solution; other highly buffered drugs; or other products containing calcium, iron or zinc. With Dairy Products Concomitant administration of ciprofloxacin tablets with dairy products (like milk or yogurt) or calcium-fortified juices alone should be avoided since decreased absorption is possible; however, ciprofloxacin tablets may be taken with a meal that contains these products. Hydration of Patients Receiving Ciprofloxacin Tablets Assure adequate hydration of patients receiving ciprofloxacin tablets to prevent the formation of highly concentrated urine. Crystalluria has been reported with quinolones. Instruct the patient of the appropriate ciprofloxacin tablet administration [see Patient Counseling Information (17) ]. Missed Doses If a dose is missed, it should be taken anytime but not later than 6 hours prior to the next scheduled dose. If less than 6 hours remain before the next dose, the missed dose should not be taken and treatment should be continued as prescribed with the next scheduled dose. Double doses should not be taken to compensate for a missed dose. Adult Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Skin and Skin Structure 500 -750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500-750 mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra-Abdominal 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectious Diarrhea 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Gonorrhea 250 mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) 500 mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 500–750 mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract 500 -750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract 250-500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250 mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days • Adults with creatinine clearance 30–50 mL/min 250–500 mg q 12 h ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. ) • Adults with creatinine clearance 5–29 mL/min 250–500 mg q 18 h ( Error! ) • Patients on hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis 250–500 mg q 24 h (after dialysis) ( Error! ) Pediatric Oral Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis (1 to 17 years of age) 10–20 mg/kg (maximum 750 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 10–21 days Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 60 days Plague 15mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 8 to 12 hours 14days 2.1 Dosage in Adults The determination of dosage and duration for any particular patient must take into consideration the severity and nature of the infection, the susceptibility of the causative microorganism, the integrity of the patient’s host-defense mechanisms, and the status of renal and hepatic function. Ciprofloxacin Tablets may be administered to adult patients when clinically indicted at the discretions of the physician. Table 1: Adult Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Usual Durations 1 Skin and Skin Structure 500 -750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500-750 mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra-Abdominal 2 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectious Diarrhea 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Urethral and Cervical Gonococcal Infections 250 mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) 3 500 mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 3 500–750 mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract Infections 500 -750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract Infections 250-500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250 mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days 1 Generally ciprofloxacin should be continued for at least 2 days after the signs and symptoms of infection have disappeared, except for inhalational anthrax (post-exposure). 2 Used in conjunction with metronidazole. 3 Begin drug administration as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure. Conversion of IV to Oral Dosing in Adults Patients whose therapy is started with Ciprofloxacin IV may be switched to ciprofloxacin tablets when clinically indicated at the discretion of the physician (Table 2) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( Error! )]. Ciprofloxacin tablets should be administered as described in Table 3. Table 3: Pediatric Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Total Duration Complicated Urinary Tract or Pyelonephritis (patients from 1 to 17 years of age) 10 mg/kg to 20 mg/kg (maximum 750 mg per dose; not to be exceeded even in patients weighing more than 51 kg) Every 12 hours 10–21 days 1 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) 2 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 60 days Plague 2,3 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 8 to 12 hours 14 days 1. The total duration of therapy for cUTI and pyelonephritis in the clinical trial was determined by the physician. 2. Begin drug administration as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure. 3. Begin drug administration as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure to Y. 2.3 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Renal Impairment Ciprofloxacin is eliminated primarily by renal excretion; however, the drug is also metabolized and partially cleared through the biliary system of the liver and through the intestine. Table 4: Recommended Starting and Maintenance Doses for Adult Patients with Impaired Renal Function Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Dose > 50 See Usual Dosage. 30–50 250–500 mg every 12 hours 5–29 250–500 mg every 18 hours Patients on hemodialysis or Peritoneal dialysis 250–500 mg every 24 hours (after dialysis) When only the serum creatinine concentration is known, the following formulas may be used to estimate creatinine clearance: Men - Creatinine clearance (mL/min) = Weight (kg) x (140–age) 72 x serum creatinine (mg/dL) Women - 0.85 x the value calculated for men. 2.4 Important Administration Instructions With Multivalent Cations Administer ciprofloxacin tablets at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after magnesium/aluminum antacids; polymeric phosphate binders (for example, sevelamer, lanthanum carbonate) or sucralfate; Videx® (didanosine) chewable/buffered tablets or pediatric powder for oral solution; other highly buffered drugs; or other products containing calcium, iron or zinc. With Dairy Products Concomitant administration of ciprofloxacin tablets with dairy products (like milk or yogurt) or calcium-fortified juices alone should be avoided since decreased absorption is possible; however, ciprofloxacin tabletsmay be taken with a meal that contains these products. Instruct the patient of the appropriate ciprofloxacin tablets administration [see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )]. Adult Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Skin and Skin Structure 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra- Abdominal 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectious Diarrhea 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Gonorrhea 250 mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post‑-exposure) 500 mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract 250 to 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250 mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Adults with creatinine clearance 30 to 50 mL/min 250 to 500 mg q 12 h (2.3) Adults with creatinine clearance 5 to 29 mL/min 250 to 500 mg q 18 h (2.3) Patients on hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis 250 to 500 mg q 24 h (after dialysis) (2.3) Pediatric Oral Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis (1 to 17 years of age) 10 to 20 mg/kg (maximum 750 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 10 to 21 days Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 60 days Plague 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 8 to 12 hours 14 days 2.1 Dosage in Adults The determination of dosage and duration for any particular patient must take into consideration the severity and nature of the infection, the susceptibility of the causative microorganism, the integrity of the patient’s host-defense mechanisms, and the status of renal and hepatic function. Table 1: Adult Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Usual Durations Generally ciprofloxacin should be continued for at least 2 days after the signs and symptoms of infection have disappeared, except for inhalational anthrax (post-exposure). Skin and Skin Structure 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra–Abdominal Used in conjunction with metronidazole. 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectious Diarrhea 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Urethral and Cervical Gonococcal Infections 250 mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post‑-exposure) Begin drug administration as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure. 500 mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract Infections 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract Infections 250 to 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250 mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Conversion of IV to Oral Dosing in Adults Patients whose therapy is started with ciprofloxacin IV may be switched to ciprofloxacin tablets when clinically indicated at the discretion of the physician (Table 2) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 3: Pediatric Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Total Duration Complicated Urinary Tract or Pyelonephritis (patients from 1 to 17 years of age) 10 mg/kg to 20 mg/kg (maximum 750 mg per dose; not to be exceeded even in patients weighing more than 51 kg). Every 12 hours 10 to 21 days The total duration of therapy for cUTI and pyelonephritis in the clinical trial was determined by the physician. Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) Begin drug administration as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure. 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 60 days Plague , Begin drug administration as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure to Y. 30 to 50 250 to 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 29 250 to 500 mg every 18 hours Patients on hemodialysis or Peritoneal dialysis 250 to 500 mg every 24 hours (after dialysis) When only the serum creatinine concentration is known, the following formulas may be used to estimate creatinine clearance: Men - Creatinine clearance (mL/min) = __ Weight (kg) x (140–age) __ 72 x serum creatinine (mg/dL) Women - 0.85 x the value calculated for men. No information is available on dosing adjustments necessary for pediatric patients with moderate to severe renal insufficiency (that is, creatinine clearance of < 50 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ). Instruct the patient of the appropriate ciprofloxacin tablets administration [see Patient Counseling Information (17) ]. Splitting Ciprofloxacin Tablets Ciprofloxacin tablets, 250 mg and 500 mg are functionally scored tablets which can be split into one-half at the scored line to provide a 125 mg and 250 mg strength, respectively. Infection Dose Frequency Duration Skin and Skin Structure 500 mg to 750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500 mg to 750 mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra-Abdominal 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectious Diarrhea 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Gonorrhea 250 mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) 500 mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 500 mg to 750 mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract 500 mg to 750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract 250 mg to 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250 mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Adults with creatinine clearance 30-50 mL/min 250-500 mg q 12 h ( 2.3 ) Adults with creatinine clearance 5–29 mL/min 250–500 mg q 18 h ( 2.3 ) Patients on hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis 250–500 mg q 24 h (after dialysis) ( 2.3 ) Pediatric Oral Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis (1 to 17 years of age) 10 to 20 mg/kg (maximum 750 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 10 to 21 days Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 60 days Plague 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 8 to 12 hours 14 days 2.1 Dosage in Adults The determination of dosage and duration for any particular patient must be take into consideration the severity and nature of the infection, the susceptibility of the causative microorganism, the integrity of the patient's host-defense mechanisms, and the status of renal and hepatic function. Skin and Skin Structure 500 mg to 750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500 mg to 750 mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra-Abdominal Used in conjunction with metronidazole. 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectios Diarrhea 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Urethral and Cervical Gonococcal Infections 250 mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) Begin drug administration as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure. 500 mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 500 mg to 750 mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract Infections 500 mg to 750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract Infections 250 mg to 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250 mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Conversion of IV to Oral Dosing in Adults Patients whose therapy is started with ciprofloxacin IV may be switched to citrofloxacin tablets when clinically indicated at the discretion of the physician (Table 2) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 3: Pediatric Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Total Duration Complicated Urinary Tract or Pyelonephritis (patients from 1 to 17 years of age) 10mg/kg to 20 mg/kg (maximum 750 mg per dose; not to be exceeded even in patients weighing more than 51 kg) Every 12 hours 10 to 21 days The total duration of therapy for cUTI and pyelonephritis in the clinical trail was determined by the physician. 15 mg/kg maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 60 days Plague , Begin drug administration as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure to Y. 30 to 50 250 to 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 29 250 to 500 mg every 18 hours Patients on hemodialysis or Peritoneal dialysis 250 to 500 mg every 24 hours (after dialysis) When only the serum creatinine concentration is known, the following formulas may be used to estimate creatinine clearance: Men - Creatinine clearance (mL/min) = Weight (kg × (140–age) 72 × serum creatinine (mg/dL) Women - 0.85 × the value calculated for men. 2.4 Important Administration Instructions With Multivalent Cations Administer ciprofloxacin at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after magnesium/aluminum antacids; polymeric phosphate binders (for example, sevelamer, lanthanum carbonate) or sucralfate; Videx ® (didanosine) chewable/buffered tablets or pediatric powder for oral solution; other highly buffered drugs; or other products containing calcium, iron or zinc. With Dairy Products Concomitant administration of ciprofloxacin with dairy products (like milk or yogurt) or calcium-fortified juices alone should be avoided since decreased absorption is possible; however, ciprofloxacin may be taken with a meal that contains these products. Hydration of Patients Receiving Ciprofloxacin Assure adequate hydration of patients receiving ciprofloxacin to prevent the formation of highly concentrated urine. Instruct the patient of the appropriate ciprofloxacin administration [see Patient Counseling Information (17) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Ciprofloxacin 0.3% and dexamethasone 0.1% otic suspension is for otic use (ears) only, not for ophthalmic use, or for injection. ( 2.1 ) • Shake well immediately before use. (2.1 ) • Instill four drops into the affected ear twice daily, for seven days. ( 2 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions • Ciprofloxacin 0.3% and dexamethasone 0.1% otic suspension is for otic use (ears) only, and not for ophthalmic use, or for injection. • Shake well immediately before use. 2.2 Dosage For the Treatment of Acute Otitis Media in Pediatric Patients (age 6 months and older) With Tympanostomy Tubes The recommended dosage regimen through tympanostomy tubes is as follows: • Four drops [equivalent to 0.14 mL of ciprofloxacin 0.3% and dexamethasone 0.1% otic suspension, (consisting of 0.42 mg of ciprofloxacin and 0.14 mg of dexamethasone)] instilled into the affected ear twice daily for seven days. • The suspension should be warmed by holding the bottle in the hand for one or two minutes to avoid dizziness, which may result from the instillation of a cold suspension. • The patient should lie with the affected ear upward, and then the drops should be instilled. • The tragus should then be pumped 5 times by pushing inward to facilitate penetration of the drops into the middle ear. • This position should be maintained for 60 seconds. Repeat, if necessary, for the opposite ear. • Discard unused portion after therapy is completed. For the Treatment of Acute Otitis Externa (age 6 months and older) The recommended dosage regimen is as follows: • Four drops [equivalent to 0.14 mL of ciprofloxacin 0.3% and dexamethasone 0.1% otic suspension, (consisting of 0.42 mg ciprofloxacin and 0.14 mg dexamethasone)] instilled into the affected ear twice daily for seven days. • This position should be maintained for 60 seconds to facilitate penetration of the drops into the ear canal. Adult Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Skin and Skin Structure 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra- Abdominal 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectious Diarrhea 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Gonorrhea 250 mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post­-exposure) 500 mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract 250 to 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250 mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Adults with creatinine clearance 30 to 50 mL/min 250 to 500 mg q 12 h ( 2.3 ) Adults with creatinine clearance 5 to 29 mL/min 250 to 500 mg q 18 h ( 2.3 ) Patients on hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis 250 to 500 mg q 24 h (after dialysis) ( 2.3 ) Pediatric Oral Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis (1 to 17 years of age) 10 to 20 mg/kg (maximum 750 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 10 to 21 days Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 60 days Plague 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 8 to 12 hours 14 days 2.1 Dosage in Adults The determination of dosage and duration for any particular patient must take into consideration the severity and nature of the infection, the susceptibility of the causative microorganism, the integrity of the patient’s host-defense mechanisms, and the status of renal and hepatic function. Table 1: Adult Dosage Guidelines 1. Generally ciprofloxacin should be continued for at least 2 days after the signs and symptoms of infection have disappeared, except for inhalational anthrax (post-exposure). Used in conjunction with metronidazole. Infection Dose Frequency Usual Durations 1 Skin and Skin Structure 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra–Abdominal 2 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectious Diarrhea 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Urethral and Cervical Gonococcal Infections 250 mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post­-exposure) 3 500 mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 3 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract Infections 500 to 750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract Infections 250 to 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250 mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Conversion of IV to Oral Dosing in Adults Patients whose therapy is started with ciprofloxacin IV may be switched to ciprofloxacin tablets when clinically indicated at the discretion of the physician (Table 2) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 3: Pediatric Dosage Guidelines 1. pestis . Infection Dose Frequency Total Duration Complicated Urinary Tract or Pyelonephritis (patients from 1 to 17 years of age) 10 mg/kg to 20 mg/kg (maximum 750 mg per dose; not to be exceeded even in patients weighing more than 51 kg). Every 12 hours 10 to 21 days 1 Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) 2 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 60 days Plague 2,3 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 8 to 12 hours 14 days 2.3 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Renal Impairment Ciprofloxacin is eliminated primarily by renal excretion; however, the drug is also metabolized and partially cleared through the biliary system of the liver and through the intestine. 30 to 50 250 to 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 29 250 to 500 mg every 18 hours Patients on hemodialysis or Peritoneal dialysis 250 to 500 mg every 24 hours (after dialysis) When only the serum creatinine concentration is known, the following formulas may be used to estimate creatinine clearance: Men - Creatinine clearance (mL/min) = Weight (kg) x (140–age) 72 x serum creatinine (mg/dL) Women - 0.85 x the value calculated for men. Adult Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Skin and Skin Structure 500 -750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500-750 mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra-Abdominal 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectious Diarrhea 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Gonorrhea 250 mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) 500 mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 500–750 mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract 500 -750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract 250-500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250 mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days • Adults with creatinine clearance 30–50 mL/min 250–500 mg q 12 h ( 2.3 ) • Adults with creatinine clearance 5–29 mL/min 250–500 mg q 18 h ( 2.3 ) • Patients on hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis 250–500 mg q 24 h (after dialysis) ( 2.3 ) Pediatric Oral Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis (1 to 17 years of age) 10–20 mg/kg (maximum 750 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 10–21 days Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 60 days Plague 15mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 8 to 12 hours 14days 2.1 Dosage in Adults The determination of dosage and duration for any particular patient must take into consideration the severity and nature of the infection, the susceptibility of the causative microorganism, the integrity of the patient’s host-defense mechanisms, and the status of renal and hepatic function. Conversion of IV to Oral Dosing in Adults Patients whose therapy is started with Ciprofloxacin IV may be switched to ciprofloxacin tablets when clinically indicated at the discretion of the physician (Table 2) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Adult Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Skin and Skin Structure 500 -750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500-750 mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra-Abdominal 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectious Diarrhea 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Gonorrhea 250 mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) 500 mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 500–750 mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract 500 -750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract 250-500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250 mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days • Adults with creatinine clearance 30–50 mL/min 250–500 mg q 12 h (2.3) • Adults with creatinine clearance 5–29 mL/min 250–500 mg q 18 h (2.3) • Patients on hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis 250–500 mg q 24 h (after dialysis) (2.3) Pediatric Oral Dosage Guidelines Infection Dose Frequency Duration Complicated UTI and Pyelonephritis (1 to 17 years of age) 10–20 mg/kg (maximum 750 mg per dose Every 12 hours 10–21 days Inhalational Anthrax (Post-Exposure) 15 mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 12 hours 60 days Plague 15mg/kg (maximum 500 mg per dose) Every 8 to 12 hours 14days 2.1 Dosage in Adults The determination of dosage and duration for any particular patient must take into consideration the severity and nature of the infection, the susceptibility of the causative microorganism, the integrity of the patient’s host-defense mechanisms, and the status of renal and hepatic function. Skin and Skin Structure 500–750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Bone and Joint 500–750 mg every 12 hours 4 to 8 weeks Complicated Intra–Abdominal Used in conjunction with metronidazole. 500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Infectious Diarrhea 500 mg every 12 hours 5 to 7 days Typhoid Fever 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Uncomplicated Urethral and Cervical Gonococcal Infections 250 mg single dose single dose Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) Begin drug administration as soon as possible after suspected or confirmed exposure. 500 mg every 12 hours 60 days Plague 500–750 mg every 12 hours 14 days Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis 500 mg every 12 hours 28 days Lower Respiratory Tract Infections 500–750 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Urinary Tract Infections 250–500 mg every 12 hours 7 to 14 days Acute Uncomplicated Cystitis 250 mg every 12 hours 3 days Acute Sinusitis 500 mg every 12 hours 10 days Conversion of IV to Oral Dosing in Adults Patients whose therapy is started with Ciprofloxacin IV may be switched to ciprofloxacin tablets when clinically indicated at the discretion of the physician (Table 2) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Table 2: Equivalent AUC Dosing Regimens Ciprofloxacin Oral Dosage Equivalent CIPRO IV Dosage 250 mg Tablet every 12 hours 200 mg intravenous every 12 hours 500 mg Tablet every 12 hours 400 mg intravenous every 12 hours 750 mg Tablet every 12 hours 400 mg intravenous every 8 hours 2.2 Dosage in Pediatric Patients Dosing and initial route of therapy (that is, IV or oral) for cUTI or pyelonephritis should be determined by the severity of the infection. 30–50 250–500 mg every12 hours 5–29 250–500 mg every 18 hours Patients on hemodialysis or Peritoneal dialysis 250–500 mg every 24 hours (after dialysis) When only the serum creatinine concentration is known, the following formulas may be used to estimate creatinine clearance: Men - Creatinine clearance (mL/min) = Weight (kg) x (140–age) 72 x serum creatinine (mg/dL) Women - 0.85 x the value calculated for men. Instruct the patient of the appropriate ciprofloxacin tablets administration [see Patient Counseling Information (17)].
Warnings: WARNINGS: FOR EYE USE ONLY NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions, some following the first dose, have been reported in patients receiving systemic quinolone therapy. Some reactions were accompanied by cardiovascular collapse, loss of consciousness, tingling, pharyngeal or facial edema, dyspnea, urticaria, and itching. Only a few patients had a history of hypersensitivity reactions. Serious anaphylactic reactions require immediate emergency treatment with epinephrine and other resuscitation measures, including oxygen, intravenous fluids, intravenous antihistamines, corticosteroids, pressor amines, and airway management, as clinically indicated.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS A history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin or any other component of the medication is a contraindication to its use. A history of hypersensitivity to other quinolones may also contraindicate the use of ciprofloxacin. CONTRAINDICATIONS: A history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin or any other component of the medication is a contraindication to its use. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin or other quinolones ( 4.1 , 5.6 , 5.7 ) Concomitant administration with tizanidine ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Ciprofloxacin tablet is contraindicated in persons with a history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin, any member of the quinolone class of antibacterials, or any of the product components [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 4.2 Tizanidine Concomitant administration with tizanidine is contraindicated [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Click here to enter Contraindications • Known hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin or other quinolones ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. , Error! Error! ) • Concomitant administration with tizanidine Error! 4.1 Hypersensitivity Ciprofloxacin tablets are contraindicated in persons with a history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin, any member of the quinolone class of antibacterials, or any of the product components [see Warnings and Precautions ( Error! )]. 4.2 Tizanidine Concomitant administration with tizanidine is contraindicated [see Drug Interactions ( Error! 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin tablets or other quinolones (4.1 , 5.6 , 5.7) Concomitant administration with tizanidine (4.2) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Ciprofloxacin tablets are contraindicated in persons with a history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin, any member of the quinolone class of antibacterials, or any of the product components [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin or other quinolones ( 4.1 , 5.6 , 5.7 ) Concomitant administration with tizanidine ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Ciprofloxacin is contraindicated in persons with a history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin, any member of the quinolone class of antibacterials, or any of the product components [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ciprofloxacin 0.3% and dexamethasone 0.1% otic suspension is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin, to other quinolones, or to any of the components in this medication. Use of this product is contraindicated in viral infections of the external canal, including herpes simplex infections and fungal otic infections. • Ciprofloxacin 0.3% and dexamethasone 0.1% otic suspension is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin, to other quinolones, or to any of the components in this medication. ( 4 ) • Use of this product is contraindicated in viral infections of the external canal, including herpes simplex infections and fungal otic infections. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin tablets or other quinolones ( 4.1 , 5.6 , 5.7 ) Concomitant administration with tizanidine ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Ciprofloxacin tablets are contraindicated in persons with a history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin, any member of the quinolone class of antibacterials, or any of the product components [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Click here to enter Contraindications • Known hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin or other quinolones ( 4.1 , 5.7 ) • Concomitant administration with tizanidine 4.1 Hypersensitivity Ciprofloxacin tablets are contraindicated in persons with a history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin, any member of the quinolone class of antibacterials, or any of the product components [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )]. 4.2 Tizanidine Concomitant administration with tizanidine is contraindicated [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Known hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin or other quinolones ( 4.1 , 5.6 , 5.7) • Concomitant administration with tizanidine ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Ciprofloxacin tablets are contraindicated in persons with a history of hypersensitivity to ciprofloxacin, any member of the quinolone class of antibacterials, or any of the product components [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )].
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions: Specific drug interaction studies have not been conducted with ophthalmic ciprofloxacin. However, the systemic administration of some quinolones has been shown to elevate plasma concentrations of theophylline, interfere with the metabolism of caffeine, enhance the effects of the oral anticoagulant, warfarin, and its derivatives, and has been associated with transient elevations in serum creatinine in patients receiving cyclosporine concomitantly. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Ciprofloxacin is an inhibitor of human cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2) mediated metabolism. Co-administration of ciprofloxacin with other drugs primarily metabolized by CYP1A2 results in increased plasma concentrations of these drugs and could lead to clinically significant adverse events of the co-administered drug. Table 11: Drugs That are Affected by and Affecting Ciprofloxacin Drugs That are Affected by Ciprofloxacin Drug(s) Recommendation Comments Tizanidine Contraindicated Concomitant administration of tizanidine and ciprofloxacin is contraindicated due to the potentiation of hypotensive and sedative effects of tizanidine [ see Contraindications (4.2) ]. Theophylline Avoid Use (Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased and Prolonged) Concurrent administration of ciprofloxacin with theophylline may result in increased risk of a patient developing central nervous system (CNS) or other adverse reactions. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor serum levels of theophylline and adjust dosage as appropriate [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] . Drugs Known to Prolong QT Interval Avoid Use Ciprofloxacin may further prolong the QT interval in patients receiving drugs known to prolong the QT interval (for example, class IA or III antiarrhythmics, tricyclic antidepressants, macrolides, antipsychotics) [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) and Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ]. Oral antidiabetic drugs Use with caution Glucose-lowering effect potentiated Hypoglycemia sometimes severe has been reported when ciprofloxacin and oral antidiabetic agents, mainly sulfonylureas (for example, glyburide, glimepiride), were co-administered, presumably by intensifying the action of the oral antidiabetic agent. Fatalities have been reported. Monitor blood glucose when ciprofloxacin is co-administered with oral antidiabetic drugs [ see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . Phenytoin Use with caution Altered serum levels of phenytoin (increased and decreased) To avoid the loss of seizure control associated with decreased phenytoin levels and to prevent phenytoin overdose-related adverse reactions upon ciprofloxacin discontinuation in patients receiving both agents, monitor phenytoin therapy, including phenytoin serum concentration during and shortly after co-administration of ciprofloxacin with phenytoin. Cyclosporine Use with caution (transient elevations in serum creatinine) Monitor renal function (in particular serum creatinine) when ciprofloxacin is co-administered with cyclosporine. Anti-coagulant drugs Use with caution (Increase in anticoagulant effect) The risk may vary with the underlying infection, age and general status of the patient so that the contribution of ciprofloxacin to the increase in INR (international normalized ratio) is difficult to assess. Monitor prothrombin time and INR frequently during and shortly after co-administration of ciprofloxacin with an oral anti-coagulant (for example, warfarin). Methotrexate Use with caution Inhibition of methotrexate renal tubular transport potentially leading to increased methotrexate plasma levels Potential increase in the risk of methotrexate associated toxic reactions. Therefore, carefully monitor patients under methotrexate therapy when concomitant ciprofloxacin therapy is indicated. Ropinirole Use with caution Monitoring for ropinirole-related adverse reactions and appropriate dose adjustment of ropinirole is recommended during and shortly after co-administration with ciprofloxacin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16) ]. Clozapine Use with caution Careful monitoring of clozapine associated adverse reactions and appropriate adjustment of clozapine dosage during and shortly after co-administration with ciprofloxacin are advised. NSAIDs Use with caution Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (but not acetyl salicylic acid) in combination of very high doses of quinolones have been shown to provoke convulsions in pre-clinical studies and in postmarketing. Sildenafil Use with caution Two-fold increase in exposure Monitor for sildenafil toxicity [ see Clinical Pharmacology(12.3) ]. Duloxetine Avoid Use Five-fold increase in duloxetine exposure If unavoidable, monitor for duloxetine toxicity Caffeine/Xanthine Derivatives Use with caution Reduced clearance resulting in elevated levels and prolongation of serum half-life Ciprofloxacin inhibits the formation of paraxanthine after caffeine administration (or pentoxifylline containing products). Monitor for xanthine toxicity and adjust dose as necessary. Zolpidem Avoid Use Co-administration with ciprofloxacin may increase blood levels of zolpidem, concurrent use is not recommended. Drug(s) Affecting Pharmacokinetics of Ciprofloxacin Antacids, Sucralfate, Multivitamins and Other Products Containing Multivalent Cations (magnesium/aluminum antacids; polymeric phosphate binders (for example, sevelamer, lanthanum carbonate); sucralfate; Videx ® (didanosine) chewable/buffered tablets or pediatric powder; other highly buffered drugs; or products containing calcium, iron, or zinc and dairy products) Ciprofloxacin should be taken at least two hours before or six hours after Multivalent cation-containing products administration [see Dosage and Administration (2.4)] Decrease ciprofloxacin absorption, resulting in lower serum and urine levels Probenecid Use with caution (interferes with renal tubular secretion of ciprofloxacin and increases ciprofloxacin serum levels) Potentiation of ciprofloxacin toxicity may occur. Interacting Drug Interaction Theophylline Serious and fatal reactions. Avoid concomitant use. Monitor serum level ( 7 ) Warfarin Anticoagulant effect enhanced. Monitor prothrombin time, INR, and bleeding ( 7 ) Antidiabetic agents Hypoglycemia including fatal outcomes have been reported. Monitor blood glucose ( 7 ) Phenytoin Monitor phenytoin level ( 7 ) Methotrexate Monitor for methotrexate toxicity ( 7 ) Cyclosporine May increase serum creatinine. Monitor serum creatinine ( 7 ) Multivalent cation-containing products including antacids, metal cations or didanosine Decreased ciprofloxacin absorption. Take ciprofloxacin 2 hours before or 6 hours after administration of multivalent cation containing drugs ( 7 ) Table 8: Drugs That are Affected by and Affecting Ciprofloxacin Drugs That are Affected by Ciprofloxacin Drug(s) Recommendation Comments Tizanidine Contraindicated Concomitant administration of tizanidine and ciprofloxacin is contraindicated due to the potentiation of hypotensive and sedative effects of tizanidine [see Contraindications ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. )]. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor serum levels of theophylline and adjust dosage as appropriate [see Warnings and Precautions ( Error! Drugs Known to Prolong QT Interval Avoid Use Ciprofloxacin may further prolong the QT interval in patients receiving drugs known to prolong the QT interval (for example, class IA or III antiarrhythmics, tricyclic antidepressants, macrolides, antipsychotics) [see Warnings and Precautions ( Error! ) and Use in Specific Populations ( Error! Monitor blood glucose when ciprofloxacin is co-administered with oral antidiabetic drugs [see Adverse Reactions ( Error! Monitor prothrombin time and INR frequently during and shortly after co- administration of ciprofloxacin with an oral anti-coagulant (for example, warfarin). Ropinirole Use with caution Monitoring for ropinirole-related adverse reactions and appropriate dose adjustment of ropinirole is recommended during and shortly after co-administration with ciprofloxacin [see Warnings and Precautions ( Error! Sildenafil Use with caution Two-fold increase in exposure Monitor for sildenafil toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology ( Error! Duloxetine Avoid Use Five-fold increase in duloxetine exposure If unavoidable, monitor for duloxetine toxicity. Caffeine/Xanthine Derivatives Use with caution Reduced clearance resulting in elevated levels and prolongation of serum half-life Ciprofloxacin inhibits the formation of paraxanthine after caffeine administration (or pentoxifylline containing products). Drug(s) Affecting Pharmacokinetics of Ciprofloxacin Antacids, Sucralfate, Multivitamins and Other Products Containing Multivalent Cations (magnesium/aluminum antacids; polymeric phosphate binders (for example, sevelamer, lanthanum carbonate); sucralfate; Videx ® (didanosine) chewable/buffered tablets or pediatric powder; other highly buffered drugs; or products containing calcium, iron, or zinc and dairy products) Ciprofloxacin should be taken at least two hours before or six hours after Multivalent cation-containing products administration [see Dosage and Administration ( Error! Decrease ciprofloxacin absorption, resulting in lower serum and urine levels Probenecid Use with caution (interferes with renal tubular secretion of ciprofloxacin and increases ciprofloxacin serum levels) Potentiation of ciprofloxacin toxicity may occur. Monitor serum level ( Error! ) Warfarin Anticoagulant effect enhanced. Monitor prothrombin time, INR, and bleeding(7) Antidiabetic agents Hypoglycemia including fatal outcomes have been reported. Monitor blood glucose (7) Phenytoin Monitor phenytoin level (7) Methotrexate Monitor for methotrexate toxicity (7) Cyclosporine May increase serum creatinine. Monitor serum creatinine (7) Multivalent cation-containing products including antacids, metal cations or didanosine Decreased ciprofloxacin absorption. Take ciprofloxacin tablets 2 hours before or 6 hours after administration of multivalent cation containing drugs (7) Table 11: Drugs That are Affected by and Affecting Ciprofloxacin Drugs That are Affected by Ciprofloxacin Drug(s) Recommendation Comments Tizanidine Contraindicated Concomitant administration of tizanidine and ciprofloxacin is contraindicated due to the potentiation of hypotensive and sedative effects of tizanidine [see Contraindications (4.2) ]. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor serum levels of theophylline and adjust dosage as appropriate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. Drugs Known to Prolong QT Interval Avoid Use Ciprofloxacin may further prolong the QT interval in patients receiving drugs known to prolong the QT interval (for example, class IA or III antiarrhythmics, tricyclic antidepressants, macrolides, antipsychotics) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) and Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ]. Fatalities have been reported . Monitor blood glucose when ciprofloxacin is co-administered with oral antidiabetic drugs [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Sildenafil Use with caution Two-fold increase in exposure Monitor for sildenafil toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Zolpidem Avoid Use Co-administration with ciprofloxacin may increase blood levels of zolpidem, concurrent use is not recommended Drug(s) Affecting Pharmacokinetics of Ciprofloxacin Antacids, Sucralfate, Multivitamins and Other Products Containing Multivalent Cations (magnesium/aluminum antacids; polymeric phosphate binders (for example, sevelamer, lanthanum carbonate); sucralfate; Videx ® (didanosine) chewable/ buffered tablets or pediatric powder; other highly buffered drugs; or products containing calcium, iron, or zinc and dairy products) Ciprofloxacin should be taken at least two hours before or six hours after Multivalent cation-containing products administration [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ]. Monitor serum level (7) Warfarin Anticoagulant effect enhanced. Monitor prothrombin time, INR, and bleeding (7) Antidiabetic agents Hypoglycemia including fatal outcomes have been reported. Monitor serum creatinine (7) Multivalent cation- containing products including antacids, metal cations or didanosine Decreased ciprofloxacin absorption. Take ciprofloxacin 2 hours before or 6 hours after administration of multivalent cation containing drugs (7) Table 8: Drugs That are Affected by and Affecting Ciprofloxacin Drugs That are Affected by Ciprofloxacin Drug(s) Recommendation Comments Tizanidine Contraindicated Concomitant administration of tizanidine and ciprofloxacin is contraindicated due to the potentiation of hypotensive and sedative effects of tizanidine [see Contraindications (4.2) ] Theophylline Avoid Use (Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased and Prolonged) Concurrent administration of ciprofloxacin with theophylline may result in increased risk of a patienyt developing central nervous system (CNS) or other adverse reactions. Phenytoin Use with caution Altered serum levels of phenytoin (increased and decreased) To avoid the loss of seizure control associated with decreased phenytoin levels and to prevent phenytoin overdose-related adverse reactions upon ciprofloxacin discontinuation in patients receiving both agents, monitor phenytoin therapy, including phenytoin serum concentration during and shortly after co-adminstration of ciprofloxacin with phenytoin. Monitor for xanthine toxicity and adjust doses as necessary. Zolpidem Avoid Use Co-administration with ciprofloxacin may increase blood levels of zolpidem, concurrent use is not recommended Drug(s) Affecting Pharmacokinetics of Ciprofloxacin Antacids, Sucralfate, Multivitamins and Other Products Containing Multivalent Cations (magnesium/aluminum antacids; polymeric phosphate binders (for example, sevelamer, lanthanum carbonate); sucralfate; Videx ® (didanosine) chewable/buffered tablets or pediatric powder; other highly buffered drugs; or products containing calcium, iron, or zinc and dairy products) Ciprofloxacin should be taked at least two hours before or six hours after Multivalent cation-containing products administration [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ]. Co­-administration of ciprofloxacin with other drugs primarily metabolized by CYP1A2 results in increased plasma concentrations of these drugs and could lead to clinically significant adverse events of the co-administered drug. Monitor serum creatinine ( 7 ) Multivalent cation- containing products including antacids, metal cations or didanosine Decreased ciprofloxacin absorption. Table 8: Drugs That are Affected by and Affecting Ciprofloxacin Drugs That are Affected by Ciprofloxacin Drug(s) Recommendation Comments Tizanidine Contraindicated Concomitant administration of tizanidine and ciprofloxacin is contraindicated due to the potentiation of hypotensive and sedative effects of tizanidine [see Contraindications ( 4.2 )]. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor serum levels of theophylline and adjust dosage as appropriate [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )]. Drugs Known to Prolong QT Interval Avoid Use Ciprofloxacin may further prolong the QT interval in patients receiving drugs known to prolong the QT interval (for example, class IA or III antiarrhythmics, tricyclic antidepressants, macrolides, antipsychotics) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 )]. Monitor blood glucose when ciprofloxacin is co-administered with oral antidiabetic drugs [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. Ropinirole Use with caution Monitoring for ropinirole-related adverse reactions and appropriate dose adjustment of ropinirole is recommended during and shortly after co-administration with ciprofloxacin [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.16 )]. Sildenafil Use with caution Two-fold increase in exposure Monitor for sildenafil toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Drug(s) Affecting Pharmacokinetics of Ciprofloxacin Antacids, Sucralfate, Multivitamins and Other Products Containing Multivalent Cations (magnesium/aluminum antacids; polymeric phosphate binders (for example, sevelamer, lanthanum carbonate); sucralfate; Videx ® (didanosine) chewable/buffered tablets or pediatric powder; other highly buffered drugs; or products containing calcium, iron, or zinc and dairy products) Ciprofloxacin should be taken at least two hours before or six hours after Multivalent cation-containing products administration [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )]. Table 8: Drugs That are Affected by and Affecting Ciprofloxacin Drugs That are Affected by Ciprofloxacin Drug(s) Recommendation Comments Tizanidine Contraindicated Concomitant administration of tizanidine and ciprofloxacin is contraindicated due to the potentiation of hypotensive and sedative effects of tizanidine [ see Contraindications ( 4.2 ) ] Theophylline Avoid Use (Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased and Prolonged) Concurrent administration of ciprofloxacin with theophylline may result in increased risk of a patient developing central nervous system (CNS) or other adverse reactions. Sildenafil Use with caution Two-fold increase in exposure Monitor for sildenafil toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . Zolpidem Avoid Use Co-administration with ciprofloxacin may increase blood levels of zolpidem, concurrent use is not recommended Drug(s) Affecting Pharmacokinetics of Ciprofloxacin Antacids, Sucralfate, Multivitamins and Other Products Containing Multivalent Cations (magnesium/aluminum antacids; polymeric phosphate binders (for example, sevelamer, lanthanum carbonate); sucralfate; Videx ® (didanosine) chewable/buffered tablets or pediatric powder; other highly buffered drugs; or products containing calcium, iron, or zinc and dairy products) Ciprofloxacin should be taken at least two hours before or six hours after Multivalent cation-containing products administration [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )]. Take 2 hours before or 6 hours after ciprofloxacin ( 7 )

=== DEXAMETHASONE SODIUM PHOSPHATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose: Purpose: First aid antiseptic to help prevent skin infection in minor cuts, scrapes and burns. For preparation of the skin prior to surgery. Helps reduce bacteria that can potentially cause skin infections.
Indications: INDICATIONS A. Intravenous or intramuscular administration. When oral therapy is not feasible and the strength, dosage form, and route of administration of the drug reasonably lend the preparation to the treatment of the condition, those products labeled for intravenous or intramuscular use are indicated as follows: 1. Endocrine disorders Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the drug of choice; synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable; in infancy, mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance) Acute adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the drug of choice; mineralocorticoid supplementation may be necessary, particularly when synthetic analogs are used) Preoperatively, and in the event of serious trauma or illness, in patients with known adrenal insufficiency or when adrenocortical reserve is doubtful Shock unresponsive to conventional therapy if adrenocortical insufficiency exists or is suspected Congenital adrenal hyperplasia Nonsuppurative thyroiditis Hypercalcemia associated with cancer 2. Rheumatic disorders As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in: Post-traumatic osteoarthritis Synovitis of osteoarthritis Rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low-dose maintenance therapy) Acute and subacute bursitis Epicondylitis Acute nonspecific tenosynovitis Acute gouty arthritis Psoriatic arthritis Ankylosing spondylitis 3. Collagen diseases During an exacerbation or as maintenance therapy in selected cases of: Systemic lupus erythematosus Acute rheumatic carditis 4. Dermatologic diseases Pemphigus Severe erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson Syndrome) Exfoliative dermatitis Bullous dermatitis herpetiformis Severe seborrheic dermatitis Severe psoriasis Mycosis fungoides 5. Allergic states Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment in: Bronchial asthma Contact dermatitis Atopic dermatitis Serum sickness Seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis Drug hypersensitivity reactions Urticarial transfusion reactions Acute noninfectious laryngeal edema (epinephrine is the drug of first choice) 6. Ophthalmic diseases Severe acute and chronic allergic and inflammatory processes involving the eye, such as: Herpes zoster ophthalmicus Iritis, iridocyclitis Chorioretinitis Diffuse posterior uveitis and choroiditis Optic neuritis Sympathetic ophthalmia Anterior segment inflammation Allergic conjunctivitis Allergic corneal marginal ulcers Keratitis 7. Gastrointestinal diseases To tide the patient over a critical period of the disease in: Ulcerative colitis (systemic therapy) Regional enteritis (systemic therapy) 8. Respiratory diseases Symptomatic Sarcoidosis Berylliosis Fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate anti-tuberculosis chemotherapy Loeffler's syndrome not manageable by other means Aspiration pneumonitis 9. Hematologic disorders Acquired (autoimmune) hemolytic anemia Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura in adults (I.V. only; I.M. administration is contraindicated) Secondary thrombocytopenia in adults Erythroblastopenia (RBC anemia) Congenital (erythroid) hypoplastic anemia 10. Neoplastic diseases For palliative management of: Leukemias and lymphomas in adults Acute leukemia of childhood 11. Edematous states To induce diuresis or remission of proteinuria in the nephrotic syndrome, without uremia, of the idiopathic type or that due to lupus erythematosus 12. Nervous system Acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis 13. Miscellaneous Tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used concurrently with appropriate anti-tuberculosis chemotherapy Trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement Diagnostic testing of adrenocortical hyperfunction Cerebral edema of diverse etiologies in conjunction with adequate neurological evaluation and management. B. Intra-articular or soft tissue administration. When the strength and dosage form of the drug lend the preparation to the treatment of the condition, those products labeled for intra-articular or soft tissue administration are indicated as adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in: Synovitis of osteoarthritis Rheumatoid arthritis Acute and subacute bursitis Acute gouty arthritis Epicondylitis Acute nonspecific tenosynovitis Post-traumatic osteoarthritis C. Intralesional administration. When the strength and dosage form of the drug lend the preparation to the treatment of the condition, those products labeled for intralesional administration are indicated for: Keloids Localized hypertrophic, infiltrated, inflammatory lesions of: lichen planus, psoriatic plaques, granuloma annulare, and lichen simplex chronicus (neurodermatitis) Discoid lupus erythematosus Necrobiosis lipoidica diabeticorum Alopecia areata They also may be useful in cystic tumors of an aponeurosis tendon (ganglia). INDICATIONS AND USAGE: Intravenous or Intramuscular Injection When oral therapy is not feasible and the strength, dosage form, and route of administration of the drug reasonably lend the preparation to the treatment of the condition, those products labeled for intravenous or intramuscular use are indicated as follows: • Endocrine Disorders Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the drug of choice; synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable; in infancy, mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance) Acute adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the drug of choice; mineralocorticoid supplementation may be necessary, particularly when synthetic analogs are used) Preoperatively, and in the event of serious trauma or illness, in patients with known adrenal insufficiency or when adrenocortical reserve is doubtful Shock unresponsive to conventional therapy if adrenocortical insufficiency exists or is suspected Congenital adrenal hyperplasia Nonsuppurative thyroiditis Hypercalcemia associated with cancer • Rheumatic Disorders As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in: Post-traumatic osteoarthritis Synovitis of osteoarthritis Rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low-dose maintenance therapy) Acute and subacute bursitis Epicondylitis Acute nonspecific tenosynovitis Acute gouty arthritis Psoriatic arthritis Ankylosing spondylitis • Collagen Diseases During an exacerbation or as maintenance therapy in selected cases of: Systemic lupus erythematosus Acute rheumatic carditis • Dermatologic Diseases Pemphigus Severe erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson syndrome) Exfoliative dermatitis Bullous dermatitis herpetiformis Severe seborrheic dermatitis Severe psoriasis Mycosis fungoides • Allergic States Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment in: Bronchial asthma Contact dermatitis Atopic dermatitis Serum sickness Seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis Drug hypersensitivity reactions Urticarial transfusion reactions Acute noninfectious laryngeal edema (epinephrine is the drug of first choice) • Ophthalmic Diseases Severe acute and chronic allergic and inflammatory processes involving the eye, such as: Herpes zoster ophthalmicus Iritis, iridocyclitis Chorioretinitis Diffuse posterior uveitis and choroiditis Optic neuritis Sympathetic ophthalmia Anterior segment inflammation Allergic conjunctivitis Keratitis Allergic corneal marginal ulcers • Gastrointestinal Diseases To tide the patient over a critical period of the disease in: Ulcerative colitis (Systemic therapy) Regional enteritis (Systemic therapy) • Respiratory Diseases Symptomatic sarcoidosis Berylliosis Fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy Loeffler’s syndrome not manageable by other means Aspiration pneumonitis • Hematologic Disorders Acquired (autoimmune) hemolytic anemia Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura in adults (IV only; IM administration is contraindicated) Secondary thrombocytopenia in adults Erythroblastopenia (RBC anemia) Congenital (erythroid) hypoplastic anemia • Neoplastic Diseases For palliative management of: Leukemias and lymphomas in adults Acute leukemia of childhood • Edematous States To induce diuresis or remission of proteinuria in the nephrotic syndrome, without uremia, of the idiopathic type, or that due to lupus erythematosus • Miscellaneous Tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy Trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement • Diagnostic testing of adrenocortical hyperfunction • Cerebral Edema associated with primary or metastatic brain tumor, craniotomy, or head injury. Use in cerebral edema is not a substitute for careful neurosurgical evaluation and definitive management such as neurosurgery or other specific therapy. By Intra-articular or Soft Tissue Injection As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in: Synovitis of osteoarthritis Rheumatoid arthritis Acute and subacute bursitis Acute gouty arthritis Epicondylitis Acute nonspecific tenosynovitis Post-traumatic osteoarthritis By Intralesional Injection Keloids Localized hypertrophic, infiltrated, inflammatory lesions of: lichen planus, psoriatic plaques, granuloma annulare and lichen simplex chronicus (neurodermatitis) Discoid lupus erythematosus Necrobiosis lipoidica diabeticorum Alopecia areata May also be useful in cystic tumors of an aponeurosis or tendon (ganglia) By Intra-articular or Soft Tissue Injection As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in: Synovitis of osteoarthritis Rheumatoid arthritis Acute and subacute bursitis Acute gouty arthritis Epicondylitis Acute nonspecific tenosynovitis Post-traumatic osteoarthritis By Intralesional Injection Keloids Localized hypertrophic, infiltrated, inflammatory lesions of: lichen planus, psoriatic plaques, granuloma annulare and lichen simplex chronicus (neurodermatitis) Discoid lupus erythematosus Necrobiosis lipoidica diabeticorum Alopecia areata May also be useful in cystic tumors of an aponeurosis or tendon (ganglia) Intravenous or intramuscular administration . Endocrine disorders . Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the drug of choice; synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable; in infancy, mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance). Acute adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the drug of choice; mineralocorticoid supplementation may be necessary, particularly when synthetic analogs are used). Preoperatively, and in the event of serious trauma or illness, in patients with known adrenal insufficiency or when adrenocortical reserve is doubtful. Shock unresponsive to conventional therapy if adrenocortical insufficiency exists or is suspected. Congenital adrenal hyperplasia. Nonsuppurative thyroiditis. Hypercalcemia associated with cancer. 2 . Rheumatic disorders . As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in: Post-traumatic osteoarthritis. Synovitis of osteoarthritis. Rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low-dose maintenance therapy). Acute and subacute bursitis. Epicondylitis. Acute nonspecific tenosynovitis. Acute gouty arthritis. Psoriatic arthritis. Ankylosing spondylitis. 3. Collagen diseases. During an exacerbation or as maintenance therapy in selected cases of: Systemic lupus erythematosus. Acute rheumatic carditis. 4. Dermatologic diseases. Pemphigus. Severe erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson Syndrome). Exfoliative dermatitis. Bullous dermatitis herpetiformis. Severe seborrheic dermatitis. Severe psoriasis. Mycosis fungoides. 5. Allergic states . Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment in: Bronchial asthma. Contact dermatitis. Atopic dermatitis. Serum sickness. Seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis. Drug hypersensitivity reactions. Urticarial transfusion reactions. Acute noninfectious laryngeal edema (epinephrine is the drug of first choice). 6. Ophthalmic diseases. Severe acute and chronic allergic and inflammatory processes involving the eye, such as: Herpes zoster ophthalmicus. Iritis, iridocyclitis. Chorioretinitis. Diffuse posterior uveitis and choroiditis. Optic neuritis. Sympathetic ophthalmia. Anterior segment inflammation. Allergic conjunctivitis. Allergic corneal marginal ulcers. Keratitis. 7. Gastrointestinal diseases . To tide the patient over a critical period of the disease in: Ulcerative colitis (systemic therapy). Regional enteritis (systemic therapy). 8. Respiratory diseases: Symptomatic Sarcoidosis. Berylliosis. Fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate anti-tuberculosis chemotherapy. Loeffler's syndrome not manageable by other means. Aspiration pneumonitis. 9. Hematologic disorders: Acquired (autoimmune) hemolytic anemia. Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura in adults (I.V. administration is contraindicated). Secondary thrombocytopenia in adults. Erythroblastopenia (RBC anemia). Congenital (erythroid) hypoplastic anemia. 10. Neoplastic diseases. For palliative management of: Leukemias and lymphomas in adults. Acute leukemia of childhood. 11. Edematous states. To induce diuresis or remission of proteinuria in the nephrotic syndrome, without uremia, of the idiopathic type or that due to lupus erythematosus. 12. Nervous system. Acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis. 13. Miscellaneous. Tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used concurrently with appropriate anti-tuberculosis chemotherapy. Trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement. Diagnostic testing of adrenocortical hyperfunction. Cerebral edema of diverse etiologies in conjunction with adequate neurological evaluation and management. When the strength and dosage form of the drug lend the preparation to the treatment of the condition, those products labeled for intra-articular or soft tissue administration are indicated as adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in: Synovitis of osteoarthritis. Rheumatoid arthritis. Post-traumatic osteoarthritis. C. When the strength and dosage form of the drug lend the preparation to the treatment of the condition, those products labeled for intralesional administration are indicated for: Keloids. Localized hypertrophic, infiltrated, inflammatory lesions of: lichen planus, psoriatic plaques, granuloma annulare, and lichen simplex chronicus (neurodermatitis). Discoid lupus erythematosus. Necrobiosis lipoidica diabeticorum. Alopecia areata. They also may be useful in cystic tumors of an aponeurosis tendon (ganglia). INDICATIONS AND USAGE A. Intravenous or Intramuscular Administration When oral therapy is not feasible and the strength, dosage form, and route of administration of the drug reasonably lend the preparation to the treatment of the condition, those products labeled for intravenous or intramuscular use are indicated as follows: 1. Endocrine Disorders Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the drug of choice; synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable; in infancy, mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance). 2. Rheumatic Disorders As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in: Post-traumatic osteoarthritis. Collagen Diseases During an exacerbation or as maintenance therapy in selected cases of: Systemic lupus erythematosus. Dermatologic Diseases Pemphigus. Allergic States Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment in: Bronchial asthma. Ophthalmic Diseases Severe acute and chronic allergic and inflammatory processes involving the eye, such as: Herpes zoster ophthalmicus. Gastrointestinal Diseases To tide the patient over a critical period of the disease in: Ulcerative colitis (systemic therapy). Respiratory Diseases Symptomatic sarcoidosis. Hematologic Disorders Acquired (autoimmune) hemolytic anemia. Neoplastic Diseases For palliative management of: Leukemias and lymphomas in adults. Edematous States To induce diuresis or remission of proteinuria in the nephrotic syndrome, without uremia, of the idiopathic type or that due to lupus erythematosus. Nervous System Acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis. Miscellaneous Tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used concurrently with appropriate anti-tuberculosis chemotherapy. Intra-Articular or Soft Tissue Administration When the strength and dosage form of the drug lend the preparation to the treatment of the condition, those products labeled for intra-articular or soft tissue administration are indicated as adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in: Synovitis of osteoarthritis. Intralesional Administration When the strength and dosage form of the drug lend the preparation to the treatment of the condition, those products labeled for intralesional administration are indicated for: Keloids. Allergic states. Acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis . INDICATIONS AND USAGE By intravenous or intramuscular injection when oral therapy is not feasible: 1. Congenital adrenal hyperplasia Nonsuppurative thyroiditis Hypercalcemia associated with cancer 2. Rheumatic Disorders As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in: Post-traumatic osteoarthritis Synovitis of osteoarthritis Rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low-dose maintenance therapy). Acute and subacute bursitis Epicondylitis Acute nonspecific tenosynovitis Acute gouty arthritis Psoriatic arthritis Ankylosing spondylitis 3. Allergic States Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment in: Bronchial asthma Contact dermatitis Atopic dermatitis Serum sickness Seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis Drug hypersensitivity reactions Urticarial transfusion reactions Acute noninfectious laryngeal edema (epinephrine is the drug of first choice). Ophthalmic Diseases Severe acute and chronic allergic and inflammatory processes involving the eye, such as: Herpes zoster ophthalmicus Iritis, iridocyclitis Chorioretinitis Diffuse posterior uveitis and choroiditis Optic neuritis Sympathetic ophthalmia Anterior segment inflammation Allergic conjunctivitis Keratitis Allergic corneal marginal ulcers 7. Respiratory Diseases Symptomatic sarcoidosis Berylliosis Fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy. Loeffler’s syndrome not manageable by other means. Aspiration pneumonitis 9. Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura in adults (IV only; IM administration is contraindicated). Secondary thrombocytopenia in adults Erythroblastopenia (RBC anemia) Congenital (erythroid) hypoplastic anemia 10. Miscellaneous Tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy. 14. Cerebral Edema associated with primary or metastatic brain tumor, craniotomy, or head injury. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ropivacaine hydrochloride injection, USP is indicated for the production of local or regional anesthesia for surgery and for acute pain management. Surgical Anesthesia: epidural block for surgery including cesarean section; major nerve block; local infiltration Acute Pain Management: epidural continuous infusion or intermittent bolus, e.g., postoperative or labor; local infiltration For use as an first aid antiseptic pre-operative skin preperation
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A. Intravenous or intramuscular administration. The initial dosage of Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate Injection may vary from 0.50 mg/day to 9.0 mg/day depending on the specific disease entity being treated. In situations of less severity, lower doses will generally suffice while in selected patients higher initial doses may be required. Usually the parenteral dosage ranges are one-third to one-half the oral dose given every 12 hours. However, in certain overwhelming, acute, life-threatening situations, administration of dosages exceeding the usual dosages may be justified and may be in multiples of the oral dosages. For the treatment of unresponsive shock high pharmacologic doses of this product are currently recommended. Reported regimens range from 1 to 6 mg/kg of body weight as a single intravenous injection to 40 mg initially followed by repeat intravenous injection every 2 to 6 hours while shock persists. For the treatment of cerebral edema in adults an initial intravenous dose of 10 mg is recommended followed by 4 mg intramuscularly every six hours until maximum response has been noted. This regimen may be continued for several days postoperatively in patients requiring brain surgery. Oral dexamethasone, 1 to 3 mg t.i.d., should be given as soon as possible and dosage tapered off over a period of five to seven days. Nonoperative cases may require continuous therapy to remain free of symptoms of increased intracranial pressure. The smallest effective dose should be used in children, preferably orally. This may approximate 0.2 mg/kg/24 hours in divided doses. In treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis daily doses of 200 mg of prednisolone for a week followed by 80 mg every other day or 4–8 mg dexamethasone every other day for 1 month have been shown to be effective. The initial dosage should be maintained or adjusted until a satisfactory response is noted. If after a reasonable period of time there is a lack of satisfactory clinical response, Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate Injection should be discontinued and the patient transferred to other appropriate therapy. It should be emphasized that dosage requirements are variable and must be individualized on the basis of the disease under treatment and the response of the patient. After a favorable response is noted, the proper maintenance dosage should be determined by decreasing the initial drug dosage in small decrements at appropriate time intervals until the lowest dosage which will maintain an adequate clinical response is reached. It should be kept in mind that constant monitoring is needed in regard to drug dosage. Included in the situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process, the patient’s individual drug responsiveness and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease entity under treatment. In this latter situation it may be necessary to increase the dosage of dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection, USP for a period of time consistent with the patient’s condition. If after a long-term therapy the drug is to be stopped, it is recommended that it be withdrawn gradually rather than abruptly. B. Intra-articular, soft tissue or intralesional administration. The dose for instrasynovial administration is usually 2 to 4 mg for large joints and 0.8 to 1 mg for small joints. For soft tissue and bursal injections a dose of 2 to 4 mg is recommended. Ganglia require a dose of 1 to 2 mg. A dose of 0.4 to 1 mg is used for injection into tendon sheaths. Injection into intervertebral joints should not be attempted at any time and hip joint injection cannot be recommended as an office procedure. Intrasynovial and soft tissue injections should be employed only when affected areas are limited to 1 or 2 sites. It should be remembered that corticoids provide palliation only and that other conventional or curative methods of therapy should be employed when indicated. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Frequency of injection usually ranges from once every 3 to 5 days to once every 2 to 3 weeks. Frequent intra-articular injection may cause damage to joint tissue. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection, 4 mg per mL– For intravenous, intramuscular, intra-articular, intralesional, and soft tissue injection. Dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection can be given directly from the vial, or it can be added to Sodium Chloride Injection or Dextrose Injection and administered by intravenous drip. Solutions used for intravenous administration or further dilution of this product should be preservative free when used in the neonate, especially the premature infant. When it is mixed with an infusion solution, sterile precautions should be observed. Since infusion solutions generally do not contain preservatives, mixtures should be used within 24 hours. DOSAGE REQUIREMENTS ARE VARIABLE AND MUST BE INDIVIDUALIZED ON THE BASIS OF THE DISEASE AND THE RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT. Intravenous and Intramuscular Injection: The initial dosage of dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection varies from 0.5 to 9 mg a day depending on the disease being treated. In less severe diseases doses lower than 0.5 mg may suffice, while in severe diseases doses higher than 9 mg may be required. The initial dosage should be maintained or adjusted until the patient’s response is satisfactory. If a satisfactory clinical response does not occur after a reasonable period of time, discontinue dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection and transfer the patient to other therapy. After a favorable initial response, the proper maintenance dosage should be determined by decreasing the initial dosage in small amounts to the lowest dosage that maintains an adequate clinical response. Patients should be observed closely for signs that might require dosage adjustment, including changes in clinical status resulting from remissions or exacerbations of the disease, individual drug responsiveness, and the effect of stress (e.g., surgery, infection, trauma). During stress it may be necessary to increase dosage temporarily. If the drug is to be stopped after more than a few days of treatment, it usually should be withdrawn gradually. When the intravenous route of administration is used, dosage usually should be the same as the oral dosage. In certain overwhelming, acute, life-threatening situations, however, administration in dosages exceeding the usual dosages may be justified and may be in multiples of the oral dosages. The slower rate of absorption by intramuscular administration should be recognized. Shock There is a tendency in current medical practice to use high (pharmacologic) doses of corticosteroids for the treatment of unresponsive shock. The following dosages of dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection have been suggested by various authors: Author Dosage Cavanagh 1 3 mg/kg of body weight per 24 hours by constant intravenous infusion after an initial intravenous injection of 20 mg Dietzman 2 2 to 6 mg/kg of body weight as a single intravenous injection Frank 3 40 mg initially followed by repeat intravenous injection every 4 to 6 hours while shock persists Oaks 4 40 mg initially followed by repeat intravenous injection every 2 to 6 hours while shock persists Schumer 5 1 mg/kg of body weight as a single intravenous injection Administration of high dose corticosteroid therapy should be continued only until the patient’s condition has stabilized and usually not longer than 48 to 72 hours. Although adverse reactions associated with high dose, short term corticosteroid therapy are uncommon, peptic ulceration may occur. Cerebral Edema Dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection is generally administered initially in a dosage of 10 mg intravenously followed by four mg every six hours intramuscularly until the symptoms of cerebral edema subside. Response is usually noted within 12 to 24 hours and dosage may be reduced after two to four days and gradually discontinued over a period of five to seven days. For palliative management of patients with recurrent or inoperable brain tumors, maintenance therapy with two mg two or three times a day may be effective. Acute Allergic Disorders In acute, self-limited allergic disorders or acute exacerbations of chronic allergic disorders, the following dosage schedule combining parenteral and oral therapy is suggested: Dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection, 4 mg per mL: first day , 1 or 2 mL (4 or 8 mg), intramuscularly. Dexamethasone tablets, 0.75 mg: second and third days, 4 tablets in two divided doses each day; fourth day, 2 tablets in two divided doses; fifth and sixth days, 1 tablet each day; seventh day, no treatment; eighth day, follow-up visit. This schedule is designed to ensure adequate therapy during acute episodes, while minimizing the risk of overdosage in chronic cases. Intra-articular, Intralesional and Soft Tissue Injection: Intra-articular, intralesional, and soft tissue injections are generally employed when the affected joints or areas are limited to one or two sites. Dosage and frequency of injection varies depending on the condition and the site of injection. The usual dose is from 0.2 to 6 mg. The frequency usually ranges from once every three to five days to once every two to three weeks. Frequent intra-articular injection may result in damage to joint tissues. Some of the usual single doses are: Site of Injection Amount of Dexamethasone Phosphate (mg) Large Joints (e.g., Knee) 2 to 4 Small Joints (e.g., Interphalangeal, Temporomandibular) 0.8 to 1 Bursae 2 to 3 Tendon Sheaths 0.4 to 1 Soft Tissue Infiltration 2 to 6 Ganglia 1 to 2 Dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection is particularly recommended for use in conjunction with one of the less soluble, longer-acting steroids for intra-articular and soft tissue injection. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever the solution and container permit. The initial dosage of dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection may vary from 0.50 mg/day to 9 mg/day depending on the specific disease entity being treated. In treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis daily doses of 200 mg of prednisolone for a week followed by 80 mg every other day or 4 to 8 mg dexamethasone every other day for 1 month have been shown to be effective. In this later situation it may be necessary to increase the dosage of dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection for a period of time consistent with the patient’s condition. Intra-articular, soft tissue or intralesional administration . Intravenous or Intramuscular Administration The initial dosage of dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection may vary from 0.50 mg/day to 9.0 mg/day depending on the specific disease entity being treated. Included in the situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process, the patient's individual drug responsiveness and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease entity under treatment. In this later situation it may be necessary to increase the dosage of dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection for a period of time consistent with the patient's condition. The dose for intrasynovial administration is usually 2 to 4 mg for large joints and 0.8 to 1 mg for small joints. A. The initial dosage of Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate Injection, USP may vary from 0.5 mg/day to 9 mg/day depending on the specific disease entity being treated. If after a reasonable period of time there is a lack of satisfactory clinical response, Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate Injection, USP should be discontinued and the patient transferred to other appropriate therapy. In this later situation it may be necessary to increase the dosage of Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate Injection, USP for a period of time consistent with the patient’s condition. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection, 10 mg/mL– For intravenous and intramuscular injection only. Intravenous and Intramuscular Injection The initial dosage of dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection varies from 0.5 to 9 mg a day depending on the disease being treated. Although adverse reactions associated with high dose, short-term corticosteroid therapy are uncommon, peptic ulceration may occur. For palliative management of patients with recurrent or inoperable brain tumors, maintenance therapy with 2 mg two or three times a day may be effective. Acute Allergic Disorders In acute, self-limited allergic disorders or acute exacerbations of chronic allergic disorders, the following dosage schedule combining parenteral and oral therapy is suggested: Dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection, first day , 4 or 8 mg intramuscularly. Dexamethasone tablets, 0.75 mg: second and third days, 4 tablets in two divided doses each day; fourth day , 2 tablets in two divided doses; fifth and sixth days, 1 tablet each day; seventh day, no treatment; eighth day, follow-up visit. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The rapid injection of a large volume of local anesthetic solution should be avoided and fractional (incremental) doses should always be used. The smallest dose and concentration required to produce the desired result should be administered. There have been adverse event reports of chondrolysis in patients receiving intra-articular infusions of local anesthetics following arthroscopic and other surgical procedures. Ropivacaine hydrochloride injection is not approved for this use (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). The dose of any local anesthetic administered varies with the anesthetic procedure, the area to be anesthetized, the vascularity of the tissues, the number of neuronal segments to be blocked, the depth of anesthesia and degree of muscle relaxation required, the duration of anesthesia desired, individual tolerance, and the physical condition of the patient. Patients in poor general condition due to aging or other compromising factors such as partial or complete heart conduction block, advanced liver disease or severe renal dysfunction require special attention although regional anesthesia is frequently indicated in these patients. To reduce the risk of potentially serious adverse reactions, attempts should be made to optimize the patient’s condition before major blocks are performed, and the dosage should be adjusted accordingly. Use an adequate test dose (3 mL to 5 mL of a short acting local anesthetic solution containing epinephrine) prior to induction of complete block. This test dose should be repeated if the patient is moved in such a fashion as to have displaced the epidural catheter. Allow adequate time for onset of anesthesia following administration of each test dose. Solutions which are discolored or which contain particulate matter should not be administered. Table 7 Dosage Recommendations * = Not Applicable † = The dose for a major nerve block must be adjusted according to site of administration and patient status. Supraclavicular brachial plexus blocks may be associated with a higher frequency of serious adverse reactions, regardless of the local anesthetic used (see PRECAUTIONS ). ‡ = Median dose of 21 mg per hour was administered by continuous infusion or by incremental injections (top-ups) over a median delivery time of 5.5 hours. § = Cumulative doses up to 770 mg of ropivacaine hydrochloride over 24 hours (intraoperative block plus postoperative infusion); Continuous epidural infusion at rates up to 28 mg per hour for 72 hours have been well tolerated in adults, i.e., 2016 mg plus surgical dose of approximately 100 mg to 150 mg as top-up. Conc. Volume mL Dose mg Onset min Duration hours mg/mL (%) SURGICAL ANESTHESIA Lumbar Epidural 5 (0.5%) 15 to 30 75 to 150 15 to 30 2 to 4 Administration 7.5 (0.75%) 15 to 25 113 to 188 10 to 20 3 to 5 Surgery 10 (1%) 15 to 20 150 to 200 10 to 20 4 to 6 Lumbar Epidural 5 (0.5%) 20 to 30 100 to 150 15 to 25 2 to 4 Administration 7.5 (0.75%) 15 to 20 113 to 150 10 to 20 3 to 5 Cesarean Section Thoracic Epidural 5 (0.5%) 5 to 15 25 to 75 10 to 20 n/a * Administration 7.5 (0.75%) 5 to 15 38 to 113 10 to 20 n/a * Surgery Major Nerve Block † 5 (0.5%) 35 to 50 175 to 250 15 to 30 5 to 8 (e.g., brachial plexus block) 7.5 (0.75%) 10 to 40 75 to 300 10 to 25 6 to 10 Field Block 5 (0.5%) 1 to 40 5 to 200 1 to 15 2 to 6 (e.g., minor nerve blocks and infiltration) LABOR PAIN MANAGEMENT Lumbar Epidural Administration Initial Dose 2 (0.2%) 10 to 20 20 to 40 10 to 15 0.5 to 1.5 Continuous infusion ‡ 2 (0.2%) 6 to 14 mL/h 12 to 28 mg/h n/a * n/a * Incremental injections (top-up) ‡ 2 (0.2%) 10 to 15 mL/h 20 to 30 mg/h n/a * n/a * POSTOPERATIVE PAIN MANAGEMENT Lumbar Epidural Administration Continuous infusion § 2 (0.2%) 6 to 14 mL/h 12 to 28 mg/h n/a* n/a* Thoracic Epidural Administration 2 (0.2%) 6 to 14 mL/h 12 to 28 mg/h n/a* n/a* Continuous infusion § Infiltration 2 (0.2%) 1 to 100 2 to 200 1 to 5 2 to 6 (e.g., minor nerve block) 5 (0.5%) 1 to 40 5 to 200 1 to 5 2 to 6 The doses in the table are those considered to be necessary to produce a successful block and should be regarded as guidelines for use in adults. Individual variations in onset and duration occur. The figures reflect the expected average dose range needed. For other local anesthetic techniques standard current textbooks should be consulted. When prolonged blocks are used, either through continuous infusion or through repeated bolus administration, the risks of reaching a toxic plasma concentration or inducing local neural injury must be considered. Experience to date indicates that a cumulative dose of up to 770 mg ropivacaine hydrochloride injection administered over 24 hours is well tolerated in adults when used for postoperative pain management: i.e., 2016 mg. Caution should be exercised when administering ropivacaine hydrochloride injection for prolonged periods of time, e.g., >70 hours in debilitated patients. For treatment of postoperative pain, the following technique can be recommended: If regional anesthesia was not used intraoperatively, then an initial epidural block with 5 mL to 7 mL ropivacaine hydrochloride injection is induced via an epidural catheter. Analgesia is maintained with an infusion of ropivacaine hydrochloride injection, 2 mg/mL (0.2%). Clinical studies have demonstrated that infusion rates of 6 mL to 14 mL (12 mg to 28 mg) per hour provide adequate analgesia with nonprogressive motor block. With this technique a significant reduction in the need for opioids was demonstrated. Clinical experience supports the use of ropivacaine hydrochloride epidural infusions for up to 72 hours. Directions Povidone iodine: Tear at notch, remove applicator, use only once. As a first aid antiseptic clean affected area apply 1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage, if bandaged let dry. For preoperative patient skin preparation clean area apply to operative site prior to surgery using the applicator
Warnings: WARNINGS Serious Neurologic Adverse Reactions with Epidural Administration Serious neurologic events, some resulting in death, have been reported with epidural injection of corticosteroids. Specific events reported include, but are not limited to, spinal cord infarction, paraplegia, quadriplegia, cortical blindness, and stroke. These serious neurologic events have been reported with and without use of fluoroscopy. The safety and effectiveness of epidural administration of corticosteroids have not been established, and corticosteroids are not approved for this use. In patients on corticosteroid therapy subject to any unusual stress, increased dosage of rapidly acting corticosteroids before, during and after the stressful situation is indicated. Immunosuppression and Increased Risk of Infection Corticosteroids, including Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate, suppress the immune system and increase the risk of infection with any pathogen, including viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan, or helminthic pathogens. Corticosteroids can: Reduce resistance to new infections Exacerbate existing infections Increase the risk of disseminated infections Increase the risk of reactivation or exacerbation of latent infections Mask some signs of infection Corticosteroid-associated infections can be mild but can be severe and at times fatal. The rate of infectious complications increases with increasing corticosteroid dosages. Monitor for the development of infection and consider Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate withdrawal or dosage reduction as needed. Tuberculosis If Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate is used to treat a condition in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, tuberculosis may occur. Closely monitor such patients for reactivation. During prolonged therapy, patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity should receive chemoprophylaxis. Varicella Zoster and Measles Viral Infections Varicella and measles can have a serious or even fatal course in non-immune patients taking corticosteroids, including Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate. In corticosteroid-treated patients who have not had these diseases or are non- immune, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure to varicella and measles: If a Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate -treated patient is exposed to varicella, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin may be indicated. If varicella develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. If a Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate -treated patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with immunoglobulin may be indicated. Hepatitis B Virus Reactivation Hepatitis B virus reactivation can occur in patients who are hepatitis B carriers treated with immunosuppressive dosages of corticosteroids, including Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate. Reactivation can also occur infrequently in corticosteroid-treated patients who appear to have resolved hepatitis B infection. Screen patients for hepatitis B infection before initiating immunosuppressive (e.g., prolonged) treatment with Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate. For patients who show evidence of hepatitis B infection, recommend consultation with physicians with expertise in managing hepatitis B regarding monitoring and consideration for hepatitis B antiviral therapy. Fungal Infections Corticosteroids, including Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate, may exacerbate systemic fungal infections; therefore, avoid Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate use in the presence of such infections unless Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate is needed to control drug reactions. For patients on chronic Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate therapy who develop systemic fungal infections, Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate withdrawal or dosage reduction is recommended. Amebiasis Corticosteroids, including Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate, may activate latent amebiasis. Therefore, it is recommended that latent amebiasis or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate in patients who have spent time in the tropics or patients with unexplained diarrhea. Strongyloides Infestation Corticosteroids, including Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate, should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides (threadworm) infestation. In such patients, corticosteroid-induced immunosuppression may lead to Strongyloides hyperinfection and dissemination with widespread larval migration, often accompanied by severe enterocolitis and potentially fatal gram-negative septicemia. Cerebral Malaria Avoid corticosteroids, including Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate, in patients with cerebral malaria. Kaposi’s Sarcoma Kaposi’s sarcoma has been reported to occur in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy, most often for chronic conditions. Discontinuation of corticosteroids may result in clinical improvement of Kaposi’s sarcoma. Prolonged use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts, glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves, and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to fungi or viruses. Usage in Pregnancy Since adequate human reproduction studies have not been done with corticosteroids, use of these drugs in pregnancy, nursing mothers or women of childbearing potential requires that the possible benefits of the drug be weighed against the potential hazards to the mother and embryo or fetus. Infants born of mothers who have received substantial doses of corticosteroids during pregnancy should be carefully observed for signs of hypoadrenalism. Average and large doses of cortisone or hydrocortisone can cause elevation of blood pressure, salt and water retention, and increased excretion of potassium. These effects are less likely to occur with the synthetic derivatives except when used in large doses. Patients with a stressed myocardium should be observed carefully and the drug administered slowly since premature ventricular contractions may occur with rapid administration. Dietary salt restriction and potassium supplementation may be necessary. All corticosteroids increase calcium excretion. While on corticosteroid therapy patients should not be vaccinated against smallpox. Other immunization procedures should not be undertaken in patients who are on corticosteroids, especially in high doses, because of possible hazards of neurological complications and lack of antibody response. The use of Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate Injection in active tuberculosis should be restricted to those cases of fulminating or disseminated tuberculosis in which the corticosteroid is used for the management of the disease in conjunction with an appropriate anti-tuberculosis regimen. If corticosteroids are indicated in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, close observation is necessary as reactivation of the disease may occur. During prolonged corticosteroid therapy, these patients should receive chemoprophylaxis. Because rare instances of anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in patients receiving parenteral corticosteroid therapy, appropriate precautionary measures should be taken prior to administration, especially when the patient has a history of allergy to any drug. Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate Injection contains sodium sulfite, a sulfite that may cause allergic type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people. The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low. Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people. WARNINGS: Because rare instances of anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in patients receiving parenteral corticosteroid therapy, appropriate precautionary measures should be taken prior to administration, especially when the patient has a history of allergy to any drug. Anaphylactoid and hypersensitivity reactions have been reported for dexamethasone sodium phosphate (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection contains sodium bisulfite, a sulfite that may cause allergic-type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people. Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in non-asthmatic people. Corticosteroids may exacerbate systemic fungal infections and therefore, should not be used in the presence of such infections unless they are needed to control drug reactions due to amphotericin B. Moreover, there have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive failure. In patients on corticosteroid therapy subjected to any unusual stress, increased dosage of rapidly acting corticosteroids before, during, and after the stressful situation is indicated. Drug-induced secondary adrenocortical insufficiency may result from too rapid withdrawal of corticosteroids and may be minimized by gradual reduction of dosage. This type of relative insufficiency may persist for months after discontinuation of therapy; therefore, in any situation of stress occurring during that period, hormone therapy should be reinstituted. If the patient is receiving steroids already, dosage may have to be increased. Since mineralocorticoid secretion may be impaired, salt and/or a mineralocorticoid should be administered concurrently. Corticosteroids may mask some signs of infection, and new infections may appear during their use. There may be decreased resistance and inability to localize infection when corticosteroids are used. Moreover, corticosteroids may affect the nitroblue-tetrazolium test for bacterial infection and produce false negative results. In cerebral malaria, a double-blind trial has shown that the use of corticosteroids is associated with prolongation of coma and a higher incidence of pneumonia and gastrointestinal bleeding. Corticosteroids may activate latent amebiasis. Therefore, it is recommended that latent or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating corticosteroid therapy in any patient who has spent time in the tropics or any patient with unexplained diarrhea. Administration of live virus vaccines, including smallpox, is contraindicated in individuals receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids. If inactivated viral or bacterial vaccines are administered to individuals receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids, the expected serum antibody response may not be obtained. However, immunization procedures may be undertaken in patients who are receiving corticosteroids as replacement therapy, e.g., for Addison’s disease. Persons who are on drugs which suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in non-immune children or adults on corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route and duration of corticosteroid administration affects the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information). If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. The use of dexamethasone sodium phosphate in active tuberculosis should be restricted to those cases of fulminating or disseminated tuberculosis in which the corticosteroid is used for the management of the disease in conjunction with an appropriate antituberculous regimen. Literature reports suggest an apparent association between use of corticosteroids and left ventricular free wall rupture after a recent myocardial infarction; therefore, therapy with corticosteroids should be used with great caution in these patients. Serious Neurologic Adverse Reactions with Epidural Administration Serious neurologic events, some resulting in death, have been reported with epidural injection of corticosteroids. The safety and effectiveness of epidural administration of corticosteroids has not been established, and corticosteroids are not approved for this use. Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects: Pregnancy Category C– Since adequate human reproduction studies have not been done with corticosteroids, use of these drugs in pregnancy or in women of childbearing potential requires that the anticipated benefits be weighed against the possible hazards to the mother and embryo or fetus. Corticosteroids appear in breast milk and could suppress growth, interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production, or cause other unwanted effects. Mothers taking pharmacologic doses of corticosteroids should be advised not to nurse. Immunosuppression and Increased Risk of Infection Corticosteroids, including dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection, suppress the immune system and increase the risk of infection with any pathogen, including viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan, or helminthic pathogens. Monitor for the development of infection and consider dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection withdrawal or dosage reduction as needed. Do not administer dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection by an intraarticular, intrabursal, intratendinous, or intralesional route in the presence of acute local infection. Tuberculosis If dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection is used to treat a condition in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, reactivation of the disease may occur. During prolonged dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection therapy, patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity should receive chemoprophylaxis. Varicella Zoster and Measles Viral Infections Varicella and measles can have a serious or even fatal course in non-immune patients taking corticosteroids, including dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection. In corticosteroid-treated patients who have not had these diseases or are non-immune, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure to varicella and measles: If a dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection-treated patient is exposed to varicella, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection-treated patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. Hepatitis B Virus Reactivation Hepatitis B virus reactivation can occur in patients who are hepatitis B carriers treated with immunosuppressive dosages of corticosteroids, including dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection. Screen patients for hepatitis B infection before initiating immunosuppressive (e.g., prolonged) treatment with dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection. Fungal Infections Corticosteroids, including dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection, may exacerbate systemic fungal infections; therefore, avoid dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection use in the presence of such infections unless dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection is needed to control drug reactions. For patients on chronic dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection therapy who develop systemic fungal infections, dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection withdrawal or dosage reduction is recommended. Amebiasis Corticosteroids, including dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection, may activate latent amebiasis. Therefore, it is recommended that latent amebiasis or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection in patients who have spent time in the tropics or patients with unexplained diarrhea. Strongyloides Infestation Corticosteroids, including dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection, should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides (threadworm) infestation. Cerebral Malaria Avoid corticosteroids, including dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection, in patients with cerebral malaria. Usage in Pregnancy. Since adequate human reproduction studies have not been done with corticosteroids, use of these drugs in pregnancy, nursing mothers or women of childbearing potential requires that the possible benefits of the drug be weighed against the potential hazards to the mother and embryo or fetus. In corticosteroid-treated patients who have not had these diseases or are non-immune, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure to varicella and measles: If a dexamethasone sodium phosphate-treated patient is exposed to varicella, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a dexamethasone sodium phosphate-treated patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. Kaposi's Sarcoma Kaposi's sarcoma has been reported to occur in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy, most often for chronic conditions. Discontinuation of corticosteroids may result in clinical improvement of Kaposi's sarcoma. Dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection, 4 mg per mL contains sodium sulfite, a sulfite that may cause allergic type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people. WARNINGS Because rare instances of anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in patients receiving parenteral corticosteroid therapy, appropriate precautionary measures should be taken prior to administration, especially when the patient has a history of allergy to any drug. Anaphylactoid and hypersensitivity reactions have been reported for dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Corticosteroids may exacerbate systemic fungal infections and, therefore, should not be used in the presence of such infections unless they are needed to control drug reactions due to amphotericin B. Therefore, it is recommended that latent or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating corticosteroid therapy in any patient who has spent time in the tropics or in any patient with unexplained diarrhea. Patients who are on drugs which suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. The risk of developing a disseminated infection varies among individuals and can be related to the dose, route and duration of corticosteroid administration as well as to the underlying disease. If exposed to measles, prophylaxis with immune globulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for VZIG and IG for complete prescribing information). The use of dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection in active tuberculosis should be restricted to those cases of fulminating or disseminated tuberculosis in which the corticosteroid is used for the management of the disease in conjunction with an appropriate antituberculous regimen. Usage in Pregnancy Since adequate human reproduction studies have not been done with corticosteroids, use of these drugs in pregnancy or in women of childbearing potential requires that the anticipated benefits be weighed against the possible hazards to the mother and embryo or fetus. WARNINGS In performing ropivacaine hydrochloride blocks, unintended intravenous injection is possible and may result in cardiac arrhythmia or cardiac arrest. The potential for successful resuscitation has not been studied in humans. There have been rare reports of cardiac arrest during the use of ropivacaine hydrochloride for epidural anesthesia or peripheral nerve blockade, the majority of which occurred after unintentional accidental intravascular administration in elderly patients and in patients with concomitant heart disease. In some instances, resuscitation has been difficult. Should cardiac arrest occur, prolonged resuscitative efforts may be required to improve the probability of a successful outcome. Ropivacaine hydrochloride should be administered in incremental doses. It is not recommended for emergency situations, where a fast onset of surgical anesthesia is necessary. Historically, pregnant patients were reported to have a high risk for cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac/circulatory arrest and death when 0.75% bupivacaine (another member of the amino amide class of local anesthetics) was inadvertently rapidly injected intravenously. Prior to receiving major blocks the general condition of the patient should be optimized and the patient should have an IV line inserted. All necessary precautions should be taken to avoid intravascular injection. Local anesthetics should only be administered by clinicians who are well versed in the diagnosis and management of dose-related toxicity and other acute emergencies which might arise from the block to be employed, and then only after insuring the immediate (without delay) availability of oxygen, other resuscitative drugs, cardiopulmonary resuscitative equipment, and the personnel resources needed for proper management of toxic reactions and related emergencies (see also ADVERSE REACTIONS , PRECAUTIONS and MANAGEMENT OF LOCAL ANESTHETIC EMERGENCIES ). Delay in proper management of dose-related toxicity, underventilation from any cause, and/or altered sensitivity may lead to the development of acidosis, cardiac arrest and, possibly, death. Solutions of ropivacaine hydrochloride should not be used for the production of obstetrical paracervical block anesthesia, retrobulbar block, or spinal anesthesia (subarachnoid block) due to insufficient data to support such use. Intravenous regional anesthesia (bier block) should not be performed due to a lack of clinical experience and the risk of attaining toxic blood levels of ropivacaine. Intra-articular infusions of local anesthetics following arthroscopic and other surgical procedures is an unapproved use, and there have been post-marketing reports of chondrolysis in patients receiving such infusions. The majority of reported cases of chondrolysis have involved the shoulder joint; cases of gleno-humeral chondrolysis have been described in pediatric and adult patients following intra-articular infusions of local anesthetics with and without epinephrine for periods of 48 to 72 hours. There is insufficient information to determine whether shorter infusion periods are not associated with these findings. The time of onset of symptoms, such as joint pain, stiffness and loss of motion can be variable, but may begin as early as the 2 nd month after surgery. Currently, there is no effective treatment for chondrolysis; patients who experienced chondrolysis have required additional diagnostic and therapeutic procedures and some required arthroplasty or shoulder replacement. It is essential that aspiration for blood, or cerebrospinal fluid (where applicable), be done prior to injecting any local anesthetic, both the original dose and all subsequent doses, to avoid intravascular or subarachnoid injection. However, a negative aspiration does not ensure against an intravascular or subarachnoid injection. A well-known risk of epidural anesthesia may be an unintentional subarachnoid injection of local anesthetic. Two clinical studies have been performed to verify the safety of ropivacaine hydrochloride at a volume of 3 mL injected into the subarachnoid space since this dose represents an incremental epidural volume that could be unintentionally injected. The 15 and 22.5 mg doses injected resulted in sensory levels as high as T5 and T4, respectively. Anesthesia to pinprick started in the sacral dermatomes in 2 to 3 minutes, extended to the T10 level in 10 to 13 minutes and lasted for approximately 2 hours. The results of these two clinical studies showed that a 3 mL dose did not produce any serious adverse events when spinal anesthesia blockade was achieved. Ropivacaine hydrochloride should be used with caution in patients receiving other local anesthetics or agents structurally related to amide-type local anesthetics, since the toxic effects of these drugs are additive. Patients treated with class III antiarrhythmic drugs (e.g., amiodarone) should be under close surveillance and ECG monitoring considered, since cardiac effects may be additive. Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use. Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia, patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia, cardiac or pulmonary compromise, infants under 6 months of age, and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition. If local anesthetics must be used in these patients, close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended. Signs of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure, and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and/or abnormal coloration of the blood. Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise; therefore, immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects, including seizures, coma, arrhythmias, and death. Discontinue ropivacaine hydrochloride and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of the signs and symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care, i.e., oxygen therapy, hydration. A more severe clinical presentation may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. Warnings: FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY In corticosteroid-treated patients who have not had these diseases or are non-immune, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure to varicella and measles: If a dexamethasone sodium phosphate-treated patient is exposed to varicella, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin may be indicated. If a dexamethasone sodium phosphate-treated patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with immunoglobulin may be indicated.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Systemic fungal infections. CONTRAINDICATIONS: Systemic fungal infections (see WARNINGS regarding amphotericin B). Hypersensitivity to any component of this product, including sulfites (see WARNINGS ). Systemic fungal infections. CONTRAINDICATIONS Systemic fungal infections (see WARNINGS regarding amphotericin B). Hypersensitivity to any component of this product (see WARNINGS ) . CONTRAINDICATIONS Ropivacaine hydrochloride injection is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to ropivacaine or to any local anesthetic agent of the amide type.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Specific trials studying the interaction between ropivacaine and class III antiarrhythmic drugs (e.g., amiodarone) have not been performed, but caution is advised (see WARNINGS ). Ropivacaine hydrochloride should be used with caution in patients receiving other local anesthetics or agents structurally related to amide-type local anesthetics, since the toxic effects of these drugs are additive. Cytochrome P4501A2 is involved in the formation of 3-hydroxy ropivacaine, the major metabolite. In vivo, the plasma clearance of ropivacaine was reduced by 70% during coadministration of fluvoxamine (25 mg bid for 2 days), a selective and potent CYP1A2 inhibitor. Thus strong inhibitors of cytochrome P4501A2, such as fluvoxamine, given concomitantly during administration of ropivacaine hydrochloride, can interact with ropivacaine hydrochloride leading to increased ropivacaine plasma levels. Caution should be exercised when CYP1A2 inhibitors are coadministered. Possible interactions with drugs known to be metabolized by CYP1A2 via competitive inhibition such as theophylline and imipramine may also occur. Coadministration of a selective and potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, ketoconazole (100 mg bid for 2 days with ropivacaine infusion administered 1 hour after ketoconazole) caused a 15% reduction in in vivo plasma clearance of ropivacaine. Patients who are administered local anesthetics are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following drugs, which could include other local anesthetics: Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia: Class Examples Nitrates/Nitrites nitric oxide, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, nitrous oxide Local anesthetics articaine, benzocaine, bupivacaine, lidocaine, mepivacaine, prilocaine, procaine, ropivacaine, tetracaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide, flutamide, hydroxyurea, ifosfamide, rasburicase Antibiotics dapsone, nitrofurantoin, para-aminosalicylic acid, sulfonamides Antimalarials chloroquine, primaquine Anticonvulsants Phenobarbital, phenytoin, sodium valproate Other drugs acetaminophen, metoclopramide, quinine, sulfasalazine

=== OXYCODONE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosage or duration and persist over the course of therapy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] , reserve opioid analgesics, including oxycodone hydrochloride tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. Oxycodone hydrochloride is an opioid agonist indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. (1) Limitations of Use : Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosage or duration and persist over the course of therapy, reserve opioid analgesics, including oxycodone hydrochloride for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. (1, 5.1) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets is indicated for the relief of moderate to moderately severe pain. INDICATIONS AND USAGE ENDOCET is indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use : Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration [see WARNINGS ] , reserve ENDOCET for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics): Have not been tolerated or are not expected to be tolerated, Have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia ENDOCET should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets is indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration [see WARNINGS ], reserve oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics) Have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated, Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxycodone hydrochloride is indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] , reserve oxycodone hydrochloride for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products): Have not been tolerated or are not expected to be tolerated, Have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia. Oxycodone hydrochloride should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate. Oxycodone hydrochloride are an opioid agonist indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. (1) Limitations of Use: Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration, reserve oxycodone hydrochloride for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or non-opioid combination products): Have not been tolerated or are not expected to be tolerated, Have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia. Oxycodone hydrochloride should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxycodone hydrochloride (HCl) tablets are indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] , reserve oxycodone HCl tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products): Have not been tolerated or are not expected to be tolerated, Have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia. Oxycodone HCl tablets should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate. Oxycodone HCl tablets are an opioid agonist indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. (1) Limitations of Use: Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration, reserve oxycodone HCl tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or non-opioid combination products): Have not been tolerated or are not expected to be tolerated, Have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution is indicated in adults for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use: Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ], reserve Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options [e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products]: Have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated, Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia. Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate. Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution is an opioid agonist indicated in adults for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid-analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. (1) Limitations of Use (1) Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration (5.2) , reserve Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options [e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products]: Have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated, Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution is indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution 100 mg per 5 mL (20 mg/mL) is indicated for the relief of pain in opioid-tolerant patients. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses, [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ], reserve Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options [e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products] • Have not been tolerated or are not expected to be tolerated, • Have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution is an opioid agonist indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. (1) Limitations of Use (1) Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses, reserve Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options [e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products]: • Have not been tolerated or are not expected to be tolerated, • Have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets are indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration [see Warnings] , reserve Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics): Have not been tolerated or are not expected to be tolerated, Have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. (2.1) Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals. Reserve titration to higher doses of oxycodone hydrochloride for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. (2.1, 5) Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. Clinical guidelines on opioid prescribing for some acute pain conditions are available. (2.1) Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying case and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. (2.1, 5.1) Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with oxycodone hydrochloride. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments. (2.1, 5.2) Discuss opioid overdose reversal agents and options for acquiring them with the patient and/or caregiver, both when initiating and renewing treatment with oxycodone hydrochloride, especially if the patient has additional risk factors for overdose, or close contacts at risk for exposure and overdose. (2.2, 5.1, 5.2, 5.3) Initiate treatment with oxycodone hydrochloride in a dosing range of 5 to 15 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of oxycodone hydrochloride. (2.3, 2.4) Periodically reassess patients receiving oxycodone hydrochloride to evaluate the continued need for opioid analgesics to maintain pain control, for the signs or symptoms of adverse reactions, and for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse. (2.4) Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue oxycodone hydrochloride in a physically dependent patient because rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. (2.5, 5.1) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions (5)]. Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. There is variability in the opioid analgesic dose and duration needed to adequately manage pain due both to the cause of pain and to individual patient factors. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see Warnings and Precautions (5)]. 2.2 Patient Access to an Opioid Overdose Reversal Agent for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Inform patients and caregivers about opioid overdose reversal agents (e.g., naloxone, nalmefene). Discuss the importance of having access to an opioid overdose reversal agent, especially if the patient has risk factors for overdose (e.g., concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose) or if there are household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the management of pain in any patient [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.3)] . Discuss the options for obtaining an opioid overdose reversal agent (e.g., prescription, over-the-counter, or as part of a community-based program) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . There are important differences among the opioid overdose reversal agents, such as route of administration, product strength, approved patient age range, and pharmacokinetics. Be familiar with these differences, as outlined in the approved labeling for those products, prior to recommending or prescribing such an agent. 2.3 Initial Dosage Although it is not possible to list every condition that is important to the selection of the initial dose of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, attention must be given to: the daily dose, potency and characteristics of a full agonist or mixed agonist/antagonist the patient has been taking previously. the reliability of the relative potency estimate to calculate the dose of oxycodone HCl needed. the degree of opioid tolerance. the general condition and medical status of the patient, including the patient’s weight and age. the balance between pain management and adverse reactions. the type and severity of the patient’s pain. risk factors for abuse or addiction, including a prior history of abuse or addiction. Use of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Tablets as the First Opioid Analgesic Initiate treatment with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets in a dosing range of 5 to 15 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain, and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Conversion from Other Opioids to Oxycodone Hydrochloride Tablets There is inter-patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and opioid formulations. Therefore, a conservative approach is advised when determining the total daily dosage of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets. It is safer to underestimate a patient’s 24-hour oxycodone hydrochloride tablets dosage than to overestimate the 24-hour oxycodone hydrochloride tablets dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to overdose. If a patient has been receiving opioid-containing medications prior to taking oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, the potency of the prior opioid relative to oxycodone should be factored into the selection of the total daily dose (TDD) of oxycodone. In converting patients from other opioids to oxycodone hydrochloride tablets close observation and adjustment of dosage based upon the patient’s response to oxycodone hydrochloride tablets is imperative. Administration of supplemental analgesia for breakthrough or incident pain and titration of the total daily dose of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets may be necessary, especially in patients who have disease states that are changing rapidly. Conversion from Fixed-Ratio Opioid/Acetaminophen, Opioid/Aspirin, or Opioid/Nonsteroidal Combination Drugs When converting patients from fixed ratio opioid/non-opioid drug regimens a decision should be made whether or not to continue the non-opioid analgesic. If a decision is made to discontinue the use of non-opioid analgesic, it may be necessary to titrate the dose of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets in response to the level of analgesia and adverse effects afforded by the dosing regimen. If the non-opioid regimen is continued as a separate single entity agent, the starting dose oxycodone hydrochloride tablets should be based upon the most recent dose of opioid as a baseline for further titration of oxycodone. Incremental increases should be gauged according to side effects to an acceptable level of analgesia. Conversion from Oxycodone Hydrochloride Tablets to Extended-Release Oxycodone The relative bioavailability of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets compared to extended-release oxycodone is unknown, so conversion to extended-release oxycodone may lead to increased risk of excessive sedation and respiratory depression. 2.4 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate oxycodone hydrochloride tablets to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.14)] . Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration. If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the oxycodone hydrochloride tablets dosage. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after a dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see Warnings and Precautions (5)] . Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions. 2.5 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Tablets Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue oxycodone hydrochloride tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. Rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. Patients may also attempt to treat their pain or withdrawal symptoms with illicit opioids, such as heroin, and other substances. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking oxycodone hydrochloride tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including oxycodone hydrochloride tablets) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. It is important to ensure ongoing care of the patient and to agree on an appropriate tapering schedule and follow-up plan so that patient and provider goals and expectations are clear and realistic. When opioid analgesics are being discontinued due to a suspected substance use disorder, evaluate and treat the patient, or refer for evaluation and treatment of the substance use disorder. Treatment should include evidence-based approaches, such as medication assisted treatment of opioid use disorder. Complex patients with comorbid pain and substance use disorders may benefit from referral to a specialist. There are no standard opioid tapering schedules that are suitable for all patients. Good clinical practice dictates a patient-specific plan to taper the dose of the opioid gradually. For patients on oxycodone hydrochloride tablets who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. Patients who have been taking opioids for briefer periods of time may tolerate a more rapid taper. It may be necessary to provide the patient with lower dosage strengths to accomplish a successful taper. Reassess the patient frequently to manage pain and withdrawal symptoms, should they emerge. Common withdrawal symptoms include restlessness, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, yawning, perspiration, chills, myalgia, and mydriasis. Other signs and symptoms also may develop, including irritability, anxiety, backache, joint pain, weakness, abdominal cramps, insomnia, nausea, anorexia, vomiting, diarrhea, or increased blood pressure, respiratory rate, or heart rate. If withdrawal symptoms arise, it may be necessary to pause the taper for a period of time or raise the dose of the opioid analgesic to the previous dose, and then proceed with a slower taper. In addition, evaluate patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for an extended period of time, and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14), Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3)] . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be adjusted according to the severity of the pain and the response of the patient. It may occasionally be necessary to exceed the usual dosage recommended below in cases of more severe pain or in those patients who have become tolerant to the analgesic effect of opioids. If pain is constant, the opioid analgesic should be given at regular intervals on an around-the-clock schedule. Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets are given orally. Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, USP, 5 mg/325 mg; Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, USP, 7.5 mg/325 mg; Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, USP, 10 mg/325 mg The usual adult dosage is one tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain. The total daily dose of acetaminophen should not exceed 4 grams. Strength Maximal Daily Dose Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, USP, 5 mg/325 mg 12 Tablets Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, USP, 7.5 mg/325 mg 8 Tablets Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, USP, 10 mg/325 mg 6 Tablets Cessation of Therapy In patients treated with Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets for more than a few weeks who no longer require therapy, doses should be tapered gradually to prevent signs and symptoms of withdrawal in the physically dependent patient. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Dosage and Administration Instructions ENDOCET should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see WARNINGS ] . Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of ENDOCET for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see WARNINGS ] . Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with ENDOCET. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see WARNINGS ] . Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with ENDOCET [see WARNINGS , Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/ Caregivers ] . Inform patients and caregivers about the various ways to obtain naloxone as permitted by individual state naloxone dispensing and prescribing regulations (e.g., by prescription, directly from a pharmacist, or as part of a community-based program). Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [see WARNINGS , Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse , Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression , Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ] . Consider prescribing naloxone when the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose. Initial Dosage Use of ENDOCET as the First Opioid Analgesic Initiate treatment with ENDOCET using ENDOCET 2.5 mg/325 mg tablets in a dosing range of 1 to 2 tablets every 6 hours as needed for pain, at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of ENDOCET. The usual adult dosage is one tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain. Strength Usual Adult Dosage Maximal Daily Dose ENDOCET 2.5 mg/325 mg 1 or 2 tablets every 6 hours as needed for pain 12 Tablets ENDOCET 5 mg/325 mg 1 tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain 12 Tablets ENDOCET 7.5 mg/325 mg 1 tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain 8 Tablets ENDOCET 10 mg/325 mg 1 tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain 6 Tablets Conversion from Oxycodone Hydrochloride and Acetaminophen to Extended-Release Oxycodone The relative bioavailability of Oxycodone Hydrochloride and Acetaminophen Tablets or Oral Solution compared to extended-release oxycodone is unknown, so conversion to extended-release oxycodone may lead to increased risk of excessive sedation and respiratory depression. Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate ENDOCET to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving ENDOCET to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as reassessing for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see WARNINGS ] . If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the ENDOCET dosage. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see WARNINGS ] . Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Oxycodone Hydrochloride and Acetaminophen Tablets and Oral Solution Do not abruptly discontinue ENDOCET in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. Rapid discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking ENDOCET, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including ENDOCET) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. Complex patients with co-morbid pain and substance use disorders may benefit from referral to a specialist. For patients on ENDOCET who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see WARNINGS ; Withdrawal , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ] . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see WARNINGS ]. Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction,abuse, and misuse [see WARNINGS ]. Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see WARNINGS ]. Initial Dosage Use of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets as the First Opioid Analgesic Initiate treatment with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets using oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets 2.5 mg/325 mg tablets in a dosing range of 1 to 2 tablets every 6 hours as needed for pain, at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets. Strength Usual Adult Dosage Maximal Daily Dose Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets 5 mg/325 mg 1 tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain 12 Tablets Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets 7.5 mg/325 mg 1 tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain 8 Tablets Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets 10 mg/325 mg 1 tablet every 6 hours as needed for pain 6 Tablets Conversion from Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets to Extended-Release Oxycodone The relative bioavailability of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets compared to extended-release oxycodone is unknown, so conversion to extended-release oxycodone may lead to increased risk of excessive sedation and respiratory depression. Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reaction as well as reassessing for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see WARNINGS ]. If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets dosage. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see WARNINGS ]. Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets Do not abruptly discontinue oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. For patients on oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for an extended period of time and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see WARNINGS; Withdrawal , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Oxycodone hydrochloride should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. (2.1) Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's underlying case and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. (2.1, 5.2) Discuss availability of naloxone with the patient and caregiver and assess each patient's need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with oxycodone hydrochloride. Consider prescribing naloxone based on the patient's risk factors for overdose. (2.2, 5.1, 5.2, 5.3) Initiate treatment with oxycodone hydrochloride.in a dosing range of 5 to 15 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient's response to their initial dose of oxycodone hydrochloride. (2.3, 2.4) Do not abruptly discontinue oxycodone hydrochloride in a physically dependent patient because rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. (2.5) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Oxycodone hydrochloride should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks . Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of oxycodone hydrochloride for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with oxycodone hydrochloride. 2.2 Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with oxycodone hydrochloride [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] . Inform patients and caregivers about the various ways to obtain naloxone as permitted by individual state naloxone dispensing and prescribing requirements or guidelines (e.g., by prescription, directly from a pharmacist, or as part of a community-based program). Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient's risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.3)] . Consider prescribing naloxone if the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose . 2.3 Initial Dosage Although it is not possible to list every condition that is important to the selection of the initial dose of oxycodone hydrochloride, attention must be given to: the daily dose, potency and characteristics of a full agonist or mixed agonist/antagonist the patient has been taking previously. the general condition and medical status of the patient, including the patient's weight and age. the type and severity of the patient's pain. Use of Oxycodone Hydrochloride as the First Opioid Analgesic Initiate treatment with oxycodone hydrochloride in a dosing range of 5 to 15 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain, and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Conversion from Other Opioids to Oxycodone Hydrochloride There is inter-patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and opioid formulations. Therefore, a conservative approach is advised when determining the total daily dosage of oxycodone hydrochloride. It is safer to underestimate a patient's 24-hour oxycodone hydrochloride dosage than to overestimate the 24-hour oxycodone hydrochloride dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to overdose. If a patient has been receiving opioid-containing medications prior to taking oxycodone hydrochloride, the potency of the prior opioid relative to oxycodone should be factored into the selection of the total daily dose (TDD) of oxycodone. In converting patients from other opioids to oxycodone hydrochloride close observation and adjustment of dosage based upon the patient's response to oxycodone hydrochloride is imperative. Administration of supplemental analgesia for breakthrough or incident pain and titration of the total daily dose of oxycodone hydrochloride may be necessary, especially in patients who have disease states that are changing rapidly. If a decision is made to discontinue the use of non-opioid analgesic, it may be necessary to titrate the dose of oxycodone hydrochloride in response to the level of analgesia and adverse effects afforded by the dosing regimen. If the non-opioid regimen is continued as a separate single entity agent, the starting dose oxycodone hydrochloride should be based upon the most recent dose of opioid as a baseline for further titration of oxycodone. Conversion from Oxycodone Hydrochloride to Extended-Release Oxycodone The relative bioavailability of oxycodone hydrochloride compared to extended-release oxycodone is unknown, so conversion to extended-release oxycodone may lead to increased risk of excessive sedation and respiratory depression. 2.4 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate oxycodone hydrochloride to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving oxycodone hydrochloride to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.14)]. If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the oxycodone hydrochloride dosage. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after a dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see Warnings and Precautions (5)]. 2.5 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Tablets Do not abruptly discontinue oxycodone hydrochloride in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking oxycodone hydrochloride, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including oxycodone hydrochloride) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. For patients on oxycodone hydrochloride who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14), Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Oxycodone HCl tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Reserve titration to higher doses of oxycodone HCl tablets for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. (2.1 , 5) Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. (2.1 , 5.1) Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with oxycodone HCl tablets. (2.1 , 5.2) Discuss availability of naloxone with the patient and caregiver and assess each patient’s need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with oxycodone HCl tablets. Consider prescribing naloxone based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose. (2.2 , 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3) Initiate treatment with oxycodone HCl tablets in a dosing range of 5 to 15 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of oxycodone HCl tablets. (2.3 , 2.4) Do not abruptly discontinue oxycodone HCl in a physically dependent patient because rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. (2.5) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Oxycodone HCl tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ] . Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of oxycodone HCl tablets for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with oxycodone HCl tablets. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ] . 2.2 Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with oxycodone HCl tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3) ] . 2.3 Initial Dosage Although it is not possible to list every condition that is important to the selection of the initial dose of oxycodone HCl tablets, attention must be given to: the daily dose, potency and characteristics of a full agonist or mixed agonist/antagonist the patient has been taking previously. Use of Oxycodone HCl Tablets as the First Opioid Analgesic Initiate treatment with oxycodone HCl tablets in a dosing range of 5 to 15 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain, and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Conversion from Other Opioids to Oxycodone HCl Tablets There is inter-patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and opioid formulations. Therefore, a conservative approach is advised when determining the total daily dosage of oxycodone HCl tablets. It is safer to underestimate a patient’s 24-hour oxycodone HCl tablets dosage than to overestimate the 24-hour oxycodone HCl tablets dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to overdose. If a patient has been receiving opioid-containing medications prior to taking oxycodone HCl tablets, the potency of the prior opioid relative to oxycodone should be factored into the selection of the total daily dose (TDD) of oxycodone. In converting patients from other opioids to oxycodone HCl tablets close observation and adjustment of dosage based upon the patient’s response to oxycodone HCl tablets are imperative. Administration of supplemental analgesia for breakthrough or incident pain and titration of the total daily dose of oxycodone HCl tablets may be necessary, especially in patients who have disease states that are changing rapidly. If a decision is made to discontinue the use of non-opioid analgesic, it may be necessary to titrate the dose of oxycodone HCl tablets in response to the level of analgesia and adverse effects afforded by the dosing regimen. If the non-opioid regimen is continued as a separate single entity agent, the starting dose oxycodone HCl tablets should be based upon the most recent dose of opioid as a baseline for further titration of oxycodone. Conversion from Oxycodone HCl Immediate-Release Tablets to Extended-Release Oxycodone The relative bioavailability of oxycodone HCl immediate-release tablets compared to extended-release oxycodone is unknown, so conversion to extended-release oxycodone may lead to increased risk of excessive sedation and respiratory depression. 2.4 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate oxycodone HCl tablets to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving oxycodone HCl tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.14) ] . If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the oxycodone HCl tablets dosage. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after a dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ] . 2.5 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Oxycodone HCl Tablets Do not abruptly discontinue oxycodone HCl in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking oxycodone HCl, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including oxycodone HCl tablets) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. For patients on oxycodone HCl who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) , Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who areknowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Reserve titration to higher doses of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. (2.1) Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. (2.1 , 5.2) Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and making dose adjustments. (2.1 , 5.3) Discuss availability of naloxone with the patient and caregiver and assess each patient’s need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution. (2.2 , 5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4) Initiate dosing with a range of 5 to 15 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain, and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial doseof Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution. (2.2 , 2.4) . Do not abruptly discontinue Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution in a physically-dependent patient because rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. (2.5, 5.15) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Ensure accuracy when prescribing, dispensing, and administering Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution to avoid dosing errors due to confusion between mg and mL, and with other oxycodone hydrochloride solutions of different concentrations, which could result in accidental overdose and death. Ensure the proper dose is communicated and dispensed. When writing prescriptions, include both the total dose in mg and the total dose in volume. Instruct patients and caregivers on how to accurately measure and take or administer the correct dose of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution. Strongly advise patients and caregivers to always use the enclosed graduated measuring cup when administering Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution 5 mg/5 mL (1 mg/mL) to ensure that the dose is measured and administered accurately. Instruct patients and caregivers to never use household teaspoons or tablespoons to measure Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution. Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 2.2 Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4) ]. Consider prescribing naloxone if the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose. 2.3 Initial Dosage Although it is not possible to list every condition that is important to the selection of the initial dose of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution, attention must be given to: the daily dose, potency and characteristics of a full agonist or mixed agonist/antagonist the patient has been taking previously the reliability of the relative potency estimate to calculate the dose of oxycodone HCl needed the degree of opioid tolerance the general condition and medical status of the patient, including the patient’s weight and age the balance between pain management and adverse reactions the type and severity of the patient’s pain risk factors for abuse or addiction, including a prior history of abuse or addiction Use of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution as the First Opioid Analgesic: Initiate treatment with Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution: 5 to 15 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain, and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution. Conversion from Other Opioids to Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution: There is inter-patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and opioid formulations. Therefore, a conservative approach is advised when determining the total daily dosage of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution. It is safer to underestimate a patient’s 24-hour Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution than to overestimate the 24-hour Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to overdose. If a patient has been receiving opioid-containing medications prior to taking Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution, the potency of the prior opioid relative to oxycodone should be factored into the selection of the total daily dose (TDD) of oxycodone. In converting patients from other opioids to Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution, close observation and adjustment of dosage based upon the patient’s response to Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution is imperative. Administration of supplemental analgesia for breakthrough or incident pain and titration of the total daily dose of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution may be necessary, especially in patients who have disease states that are changing rapidly. Conversion from Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution to Extended-Release oxycodone: The relative bioavailability of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution compared to extended-release oxycodone is unknown, so conversion to extended-release tablets/capsules may lead to increased risk of excessive sedation and respiratory depression. 2.4 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution to assess the maintenance of pain control signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.15) ]. If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution dosage. 2.5 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution Do not abruptly discontinue Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. For patients on Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15) , Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution 100 mg per 5 mL (20 mg/mL) is for opioid-tolerant patients only ( 2.1 ) Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals. (2.1 ) Individualize dosing based on the severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic experience, and risk factor for addiction, abuse, and misuse. ( 2.1 ) Initiate dosing with a range of 5 to 15 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain. ( 2.2 ) For control of chronic pain, administer Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution on a regularly scheduled basis, at the lowest dosage level to achieve adequate analgesia. ( 2.2 ) Individually titrate Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. ( 2.3 ) Do not abruptly discontinue Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution in a physically dependent patient because rapid discontinuation of Opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution is available in two concentrations: 5 mg per 5 mL (1 mg/mL), and 100 mg per 5 mL (20 mg/mL). Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution 100 mg per 5 mL (20 mg/mL) is for use in opioid-tolerant patients only who have already been receiving opioid therapy. Use this strength only for patients who have already been titrated to a stable analgesic regimen using lower strengths of oxycodone hydrochloride and who can benefit from use of a smaller volume of oral solution. Patients considered to be opioid tolerant are those who are receiving, for one week or longer, at least 60mg oral morphine per day, 25 mcg transdermal fentanyl per hour, 30 mg oral oxycodone per day, 8 mg oral hydromorphone per day, 25 mg oral oxymorphone per day, 60 mg oral hydrocodone per day, or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid. Ensure accuracy when prescribing, dispensing, and administering Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution to avoid dosing errors due to confusion between mg and mL, and with other oxycodone hydrochloride solutions of different concentrations, which could result in accidental overdose and death. Always use the enclosed calibrated measuring cup when administering Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution 5 mg per 5 mL and always use the enclosed calibrated oral syringe when administering Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution 100 mg per 5 mL (20 mg per mL) to ensure that the dose is measured and administered accurately. Do not use household teaspoons or tablespoons to measure Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution, as using a tablespoon instead of a teaspoon could lead to overdosage. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ]. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24-72 hours of initiating therapy and following dosage increases with Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution and adjust the dosage accordingly [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. 2.2 Initial Dosage Although it is not possible to list every condition that is important to the selection of the initial dose of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution, attention must be given to: 1. the daily dose, potency and characteristics of a full agonist or mixed agonist /antagonist the patient has been taking previously 2. the reliability of the relative potency estimate to calculate the dose of oxycodone HCl needed 3. the degree of opioid tolerance 4. the general condition and medical status of the patient, including the patient’s weight and age 5. the balance between pain management and adverse reactions 6. the type and severity of the patient’s pain 7. risk factors for abuse or addiction, including a prior history of abuse or addiction Use of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution as the First Opioid Analgesic Do not initiate treatment with Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution 100 mg per 5 mL (20 mg per mL) in patients who are opioid naïve. Select an alternate product with lower concentration. Initiate treatment with Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution in a dosing range of 5 to 15 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain. Patients with chronic pain should have their dosage given on an around-the-clock basis to prevent the reoccurrence of pain rather than treating the pain after it has occurred. This dose can then be adjusted to an acceptable level of analgesia taking into account side effects experienced by the patient. For control of severe chronic pain, Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution should be administered on a regularly scheduled basis, every 4 to 6 hours, at the lowest dosage level that will achieve adequate analgesia. Conversion from Other Opioids to Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution There is inter-patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and opioid formulations. It is safer to underestimate a patient’s 24-hour Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution dosage than to overestimate the 24-hour Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to overdose. In converting patients from other opioids to Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution close observation and adjustment of dosage based upon the patient’s response to Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution is imperative. Conversion from Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution to Extended-Release Oxycodone Hydrochloride The relative bioavailability of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution compared to extended-release oxycodone is unknown, so conversion to extended-release tablets must be accompanied by close observation for signs of excessive sedation and respiratory depression . 2.3 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions, as well as monitoring for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. If unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed, consider reducing the dosage. 2.4 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution Do not abruptly discontinue Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid- dependent patient taking Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the dose of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. For patients on Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution who are physically opioid- dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose- lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. In addition, monitor patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for a long duration and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) , Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3) ] Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings]. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings]. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see Warnings]. Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets [see Warnings, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression; Precautions, Information for Patients/Caregivers]. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [see Warnings, Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression, Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants]. Conversion from Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets to Extended-Release Oxycodone The relative bioavailability of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets compared to extended-release oxycodone is unknown, so conversion to extended release oxycodone may lead to increased risk of excessive sedation and respiratory depression. Continually reevaluate patients receiving Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings]. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see Warnings]. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings/Withdrawal, Drug Abuse and Dependence].
Warnings: WARNINGS Misuse, Abuse and Diversion of Opioids Oxycodone is an opioid agonist of the morphine-type. Such drugs are sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders and are subject to criminal diversion. Oxycodone can be abused in a manner similar to other opioid agonists, legal or illicit. This should be considered when prescribing or dispensing Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets in situations where the physician or pharmacist is concerned about an increased risk of misuse, abuse, or diversion. Concerns about misuse, addiction, and diversion should not prevent the proper management of pain. Healthcare professionals should contact their State Professional Licensing Board or State Controlled Substances Authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product. Administration of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets should be closely monitored for the following potentially serious adverse reactions and complications: Respiratory Depression Respiratory depression is a hazard with the use of oxycodone, one of the active ingredients in Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, as with all opioid agonists. Elderly and debilitated patients are at particular risk for respiratory depression as are non-tolerant patients given large initial doses of oxycodone or when oxycodone is given in conjunction with other agents that depress respiration. Oxycodone should be used with extreme caution in patients with acute asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD), cor pulmonale, or preexisting respiratory impairment. In such patients, even usual therapeutic doses of oxycodone may decrease respiratory drive to the point of apnea. In these patients alternative non-opioid analgesics should be considered, and opioids should be employed only under careful medical supervision at the lowest effective dose. In case of respiratory depression, a reversal agent such as naloxone hydrochloride may be utilized (see OVERDOSAGE ). Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure The respiratory depressant effects of opioids include carbon dioxide retention and secondary elevation of cerebrospinal fluid pressure, and may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury, other intracranial lesions or a pre-existing increase in intracranial pressure. Oxycodone produces effects on pupillary response and consciousness which may obscure neurologic signs of worsening in patients with head injuries. Hypotensive Effect Oxycodone may cause severe hypotension particularly in individuals whose ability to maintain blood pressure has been compromised by a depleted blood volume, or after concurrent administration with drugs which compromise vasomotor tone such as phenothiazines. Oxycodone, like all opioid analgesics of the morphine-type, should be administered with caution to patients in circulatory shock, since vasodilation produced by the drug may further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. Oxycodone may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients. Hepatoxicity Acetaminophen has been associated with cases of acute liver failure, at times resulting in liver transplant and death. Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses that exceed 4000 milligrams per day, and often involve more than one acetaminophen containing product. The excessive intake of acetaminophen may be intentional to cause self-harm or unintentional as patients attempt to obtain more pain relief or unknowingly take other acetaminophen-containing products. The risk of acute liver failure is higher in individuals with underlying liver disease and in individuals who ingest alcohol while taking acetaminophen. Instruct patients to look for acetaminophen or APAP on package labels and not to use more than one product that contains acetaminophen. Instruct patients to seek medical attention immediately upon ingestion of more than 4000 milligrams of acetaminophen per day, even if they feel well. Serious Skin Reactions Rarely, acetaminophen may cause serious skin reactions such as acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Patients should be informed about the signs of serious skin reactions, and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Hypersensitivity / Anaphylaxis There have been post-marketing reports of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis associated with use of acetaminophen. Clinical signs including swelling of the face, mouth, and throat, respiratory distress, urticaria, rash, pruritus, and vomiting. There were infrequent reports of life-threatening anaphylaxis requiring emergency medical attention. Instruct patients to discontinue Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms. Do not prescribe Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets for patients with acetaminophen allergy. WARNINGS Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse ENDOCET contains oxycodone, a Schedule II controlled substance. As an opioid, ENDOCET exposes users to the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ] . Although the risk of addiction in any individual is unknown, it can occur in patients appropriately prescribed ENDOCET. Addiction can occur at recommended dosages and if the drug is misused or abused. Assess each patient’s risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse prior to prescribing ENDOCET, and reassess all patients receiving ENDOCET for the development of these behaviors and conditions. Risks are increased in patients with a personal or family history of substance abuse (including drug or alcohol abuse or addiction) or mental illness (e.g., major depression). The potential for these risks should not, however, prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient. Patients at increased risk may be prescribed opioids such as ENDOCET, but use in such patients necessitates intensive counseling about the risks and proper use of ENDOCET along with frequent reevaluation for signs of addiction, abuse, and misuse. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS ; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ; Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ] . Opioids are sought for nonmedical use and are subject to diversion from legitimate prescribed use. Consider these risks when prescribing or dispensing ENDOCET. Strategies to reduce these risks include prescribing the drug in the smallest appropriate quantity and advising the patient on careful storage of the drug during the course of treatment and proper disposal of unused drug [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers ] . Contact local state professional licensing board or state-controlled substances authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product. Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression has been reported with the use of opioids, even when used as recommended. Respiratory depression, if not immediately recognized and treated, may lead to respiratory arrest and death. Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid antagonists, depending on the patient’s clinical status [see OVERDOSAGE ] . Carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) retention from opioid-induced respiratory depression can exacerbate the sedating effects of opioids. While serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression can occur at any time during the use of ENDOCET, the risk is greatest during the initiation of therapy or following a dosage increase. To reduce the risk of respiratory depression, proper dosing and titration of ENDOCET are essential [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ] . Overestimating the ENDOCET dosage when converting patients from another opioid product can result in a fatal overdose with the first dose. Accidental ingestion of even one dose of ENDOCET, especially by children, can result in respiratory depression and death due to an overdose of oxycodone. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help right away in the event of a known or suspected overdose [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers ] . Opioids can cause sleep-related breathing disorders including central sleep apnea (CSA) and sleep-related hypoxemia. Opioid use increases the risk of CSA in a dose-dependent fashion. In patients who present with CSA, consider decreasing the opioid dosage using best practices for opioid taper [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ] . Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with ENDOCET. Inform patients and caregivers about the various ways to obtain naloxone as permitted by individual state naloxone dispensing and prescribing requirements or guidelines (e.g., by prescription, directly from a pharmacist, or as part of a community-based program). Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help, even if naloxone is administered [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers ] . Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient. Also consider prescribing naloxone if the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose. If naloxone is prescribed, educate patients and caregivers on how to treat with naloxone [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ; WARNINGS ; Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse , Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ; PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers , OVERDOSAGE ] . Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of ENDOCET with benzodiazepines and/or other CNS depressants, including alcohol (e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids). Because of these risks, reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Observational studies have demonstrated that concomitant use of opioid analgesics and benzodiazepines increases the risk of drug-related mortality compared to use of opioid analgesics alone. Because of similar pharmacological properties, it is reasonable to expect similar risk with the concomitant use of other CNS depressant drugs with opioid analgesics [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ] . If the decision is made to prescribe a benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant concomitantly with an opioid analgesic, prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use. In patients already receiving an opioid analgesic, prescribe a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant than indicated in the absence of an opioid, and titrate based on clinical response. If an opioid analgesic is initiated in a patient already taking a benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant, prescribe a lower initial dose of the opioid analgesic, and titrate based on clinical response. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction, educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS ; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ; Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ] . Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when ENDOCET is used with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants (including alcohol and illicit drugs). Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use of the benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant have been determined. Screen patients for risk of substance use disorders, including opioid abuse and misuse, and warn them of the risk for overdose and death associated with the use of additional CNS depressants including alcohol and illicit drugs. Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Use of ENDOCET for an extended period of time during pregnancy can result in withdrawal in the neonate. Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, unlike opioid withdrawal syndrome in adults, may be life-threatening if not recognized and treated, and requires management according to protocols developed by neonatology experts. Observe newborns for signs of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and manage accordingly. Advise pregnant women using opioids for an extended period of time of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients /Caregivers , Pregnancy ] . Opioid Analgesic Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) To ensure that the benefits of opioid analgesics outweigh the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has required a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) for these products. Under the requirements of the REMS, drug companies with approved opioid analgesic products must make REMS-compliant education programs available to healthcare providers. Healthcare providers are strongly encouraged to do all of the following: Complete a REMS-compliant education program offered by an accredited provider of continuing education (CE) or another education program that includes all the elements of the FDA Education Blueprint for Health Care Providers Involved in the Management or Support of Patients with Pain. Discuss the safe use, serious risks, and proper storage and disposal of opioid analgesics with patients and/or their caregivers every time these medicines are prescribed. The Patient Counseling Guide (PCG) can be obtained at this link: www.fda.gov/OpioidAnalgesicREMSPCG . Emphasize to patients and their caregivers the importance of reading the Medication Guide that they will receive from their pharmacist every time an opioid analgesic is dispensed to them. Consider using other tools to improve patient, household, and community safety, such as patient-prescriber agreements that reinforce patient-prescriber responsibilities. To obtain further information on the opioid analgesic REMS and for a list of accredited REMS CME/CE, call 800-503-0784, or log on to www.opioidanalgesicrems.com . The FDA Blueprint can be found at www.fda.gov/OpioidAnalgesicREMSBlueprint . Risks of Concomitant Use or Discontinuation of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Concomitant use of ENDOCET with a CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may increase plasma concentrations of oxycodone hydrochloride and prolong opioid adverse reactions, which may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ] , particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of ENDOCET is achieved . Similarly, discontinuation of a CYP3A4 inducer, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, in ENDOCET-treated patients may increase oxycodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions. When using ENDOCET with CYP3A4 inhibitors or discontinuing CYP3A4 inducers in ENDOCET-treated patients, evaluate patients at frequent intervals and consider dosage reduction of ENDOCET until stable drug effects are achieved [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ] . Concomitant use of ENDOCET with CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuation of an CYP3A4 inhibitor could decrease oxycodone hydrochloride plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy or, possibly, lead to a withdrawal syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone hydrochloride. When using ENDOCET with CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider increasing the opioid dosage if needed to maintain adequate analgesia or if symptoms of opioid withdrawal occur [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ] . Hepatotoxicity Acetaminophen has been associated with cases of acute liver failure, at times resulting in liver transplant and death. Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses that exceed 4000 milligrams per day, and often involve more than one acetaminophen-containing product. Opioid-Induced Hyperalgesia and Allodynia Opioid-Induced Hyperalgesia (OIH) occurs when an opioid analgesic paradoxically causes an increase in pain, or an increase in sensitivity to pain. This condition differs from tolerance, which is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ; Dependence ] . Symptoms of OIH include (but may not be limited to) increased levels of pain upon opioid dosage increase, decreased levels of pain upon opioid dosage decrease, or pain from ordinarily non-painful stimuli (allodynia). These symptoms may suggest OIH only if there is no evidence of underlying disease progression, opioid tolerance, opioid withdrawal, or addictive behavior. Cases of OIH have been reported, both with short-term and longer-term use of opioid analgesics. Though the mechanism of OIH is not fully understood, multiple biochemical pathways have been implicated. Medical literature suggests a strong biologic plausibility between opioid analgesics and OIH and allodynia. If a patient is suspected to be experiencing OIH, carefully consider appropriately decreasing the dose of the current opioid analgesic or opioid rotation (safely switching the patient to a different opioid moiety) [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , WARNINGS ] . Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression in Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease or in Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients The use of ENDOCET in patients with acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment is contraindicated. Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease : ENDOCET-treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea, even at recommended dosages of ENDOCET [see WARNINGS; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ] . Elderly, Cachetic, or Debilitated Patients : Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients because they may have altered pharmacokinetics or altered clearance compared to younger, healthier patients [see WARNINGS; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ] . Regularly evaluate patients, particularly when initiating and titrating ENDOCET and when ENDOCET is given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration [see WARNINGS; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ] . Alternatively, consider the use of non-opioid analgesics in these patients. Adrenal Insufficiency Cases of adrenal insufficiency have been reported with opioid use, more often following greater than one month of use. Presentation of adrenal insufficiency may include non-specific symptoms and signs including nausea, vomiting, anorexia, fatigue, weakness, dizziness, and low blood pressure. If adrenal insufficiency is suspected, confirm the diagnosis with diagnostic testing as soon as possible. If adrenal insufficiency is diagnosed, treat with physiologic replacement doses of corticosteroids. Wean the patient off of the opioid to allow adrenal function to recover and continue corticosteroid treatment until adrenal function recovers. Other opioids may be tried as some cases reported use of a different opioid without recurrence of adrenal insufficiency. The information available does not identify any particular opioids as being more likely to be associated with adrenal insufficiency. Severe Hypotension ENDOCET may cause severe hypotension including orthostatic hypotension and syncope in ambulatory patients. There is increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs (e.g., phenothiazines or general anesthetics) [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ] . Regularly evaluate these patients for signs of hypotension after initiating or titrating the dosage of ENDOCET. In patients with circulatory shock ENDOCET may cause vasodilatation that can further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. Avoid the use of ENDOCET with circulatory shock. Hypersensitivity/Anaphylaxis There have been post-marketing reports of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis associated with use of acetaminophen. Clinical signs included swelling of the face, mouth, and throat, respiratory distress, urticaria, rash, pruritus, and vomiting. Instruct patients to discontinue ENDOCET immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms. Do not prescribe ENDOCET for patients with acetaminophen allergy [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients /Caregivers ] . Risks of Use in Patients with Increased Intracranial Pressure, Brain Tumors, Head Injury, or Impaired Consciousness In patients who may be susceptible to the intracranial effects of CO 2 retention (e.g., those with evidence of increased intracranial pressure or brain tumors), ENDOCET may reduce respiratory drive, and the resultant CO 2 retention can further increase intracranial pressure. Monitor such patients for signs of sedation and respiratory depression, particularly when initiating therapy with ENDOCET. Opioids may also obscure the clinical course in a patient with a head injury. Avoid the use of ENDOCET in patients with impaired consciousness or coma. Risks of Use in Patients with Gastrointestinal Conditions ENDOCET are contraindicated in patients with known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. The administration of ENDOCET, or other opioids may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions. The oxycodone in ENDOCET may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi. Opioids may cause increases in serum amylase. Regularly evaluate patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis, for worsening symptoms. Increased Risk of Seizures in Patients with Seizure Disorders The oxycodone in ENDOCET may increase the frequency of seizures in patients with seizure disorders, and may increase the risk of seizures occurring in other clinical settings associated with seizures. Regularly evaluate patients with a history of seizure disorders for worsened seizure control during ENDOCET therapy. Withdrawal Do not abruptly discontinue ENDOCET in a patient physically dependent on opioids. When discontinuing ENDOCET in a physically dependent patient, gradually taper the dosage. Rapid tapering of ENDOCET in a patient physically dependent on opioids may lead to a withdrawal syndrome and return of pain [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ] . Additionally, avoid the use of mixed agonist/antagonist (e.g., pentazocine, nalbuphine, and butorphanol) or partial agonist (e.g., buprenorphine) analgesics in patients who are receiving a full opioid agonist analgesic, including ENDOCET. In these patients, mixed agonist/antagonist and partial agonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ] . Risks of Driving and Operating Machinery ENDOCET may impair the mental or physical abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving a car or operating machinery. Warn patients not to drive or operate dangerous machinery unless they are tolerant to the effects of ENDOCET and know how they will react to the medication [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients /Caregivers ] . WARNINGS Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets contain oxycodone, a Schedule II controlled substance. As an opioid, oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets exposes users to the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. Although the risk of addiction in any individual is unknown, it can occur in patients appropriately prescribed oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets. Assess each patient’s risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse prior to prescribing oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets, and reassess all patients receiving oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets for the development of these behaviors and conditions. Patients at increased risk may be prescribed opioids such as oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets, but use in such patients necessitates intensive counseling about the risks and proper use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets along with frequent reevaluation for signs of addiction, abuse, and misuse. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION; Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ]. Consider these risks when prescribing or dispensing oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets. Strategies to reduce these risks include prescribing the drug in the smallest appropriate quantity and advising the patient on careful storage of the drug during the course of treatment and proper disposal of unused drug. Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid antagonists, depending on the patient’s clinical status [see OVERDOSAGE ]. While serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression can occur at any time during the use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets, the risk is greatest during the initiation of therapy or following a dosage increase of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets. To reduce the risk of respiratory depression, proper dosing and titration of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are essential [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ]. Overestimating the oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets dosage when converting patients from another opioid product can result in a fatal overdose with the first dose. Accidental ingestion of even one dose of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets, especially by children, can result in respiratory depression and death due to an overdose of oxycodone and acetaminophen. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help right away in the event of a known or suspected overdose [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients and/or Caregivers ]. In patients who present with CSA, consider decreasing the opioid dosage using best practices for opioid taper [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ]. Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help, even if naloxone is administered [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients and/or Caregivers ] . Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of other CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. If naloxone is prescribed, educate patients and caregivers on how to treat with naloxone [see WARNINGS; Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse , Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants , PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients and/or Caregivers , OVERDOSAGE ]. Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of oxycodone hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets with benzodiazepines and/or other CNS depressants, including alcohol (e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids). Because of similar pharmacological properties, it is reasonable to expect similar risk with the concomitant use of other CNS depressant drugs with opioid analgesics [see PRECAUTIONS; DRUG INTERACTIONS ]. If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION; Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ]. Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are used with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants (including alcohol and illicit drugs). Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets for an extended period of time during pregnancy can result in withdrawal in the neonate. Advise pregnant women using opioids for an extended period of time of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers, Pregnancy ]. Risks of Concomitant Use or Discontinuation of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Concomitant use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets with a CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may increase plasma concentrations of oxycodone hydrochloride and prolong opioid adverse reactions, which may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ], particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets is achieved. Similarly, discontinuation of a CYP3A4 inducer, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, in oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets-treated patients may increase oxycodone plasma concentrations and prolong opioid adverse reactions. When using oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets with CYP3A4 inhibitors or discontinuing CYP3A4 inducers in oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets-treated patients, evaluate patients at frequent intervals and consider dosage reduction of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets until stable drug effects are achieved [see PRECAUTIONS; DRUG INTERACTIONS ]. Concomitant use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets with CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuation of an CYP3A4 inhibitor could decrease oxycodone hydrochloride plasma concentrations, decrease opioid efficacy or, possibly, lead to a withdrawal syndrome in a patient who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone hydrochloride. When using oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets with CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider increasing the opioid dosage if needed to maintain adequate analgesia or if symptoms of opioid withdrawal occur [see PRECAUTIONS; DRUG INTERACTIONS ]. This condition differs from tolerance, which is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect [see DEPENDENCE ]. If a patient is suspected to be experiencing OIH, carefully consider appropriately decreasing the dose of the current opioid analgesic, or opioid rotation (safely switching the patient to a different opioid moiety) [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , WARNINGS ]. Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression in Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease or in Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients The use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets in patients with acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment is contraindicated. Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease: Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets-treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea, even at recommended dosages of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets [see WARNINGS; Life Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. Elderly, Cachetic, or Debilitated Patients: Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients because they may have altered pharmacokinetics or altered clearance compared to younger, healthier patients [see WARNINGS; Life Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. Regularly evaluate patients, particularly when initiating and titrating oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets and when oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration [see WARNINGS; Life Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. Severe Hypotension Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets may cause severe hypotension including orthostatic hypotension and syncope in ambulatory patients. There is increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs (e.g., phenothiazines or general anesthetics) [see PRECAUTIONS; DRUG INTERACTIONS ]. Regularly evaluate these patients for signs of hypotension after initiating or titrating the dosage of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets. In patients with circulatory shock oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets may cause vasodilation that can further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. Avoid the use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets with circulatory shock. Do not prescribe oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets for patients with acetaminophen allergy [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. Risks of Use in Patients with Increased Intracranial Pressure, Brain Tumors, Head Injury, or Impaired Consciousness In patients who may be susceptible to the intracranial effects of CO 2 retention (e.g., those with evidence of increased intracranial pressure or brain tumors), oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets may reduce respiratory drive, and the resultant CO 2 retention can further increase intracranial pressure. Monitor such patients for signs of sedation and respiratory depression, particularly when initiating therapy with oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets. Avoid the use of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets in patients with impaired consciousness or coma. Risks of Use in Patients with Gastrointestinal Conditions Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets are contraindicated in patients with known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. The administration of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets, or other opioids may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions. The oxycodone in oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi. Increased Risk of Seizures in Patients with Seizure Disorders The oxycodone in oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets may increase the frequency of seizures in patients with seizure disorders, and may increase the risk of seizures occurring in other clinical settings associated with seizures. Regularly evaluate patients with a history of seizure disorders for worsened seizure control during oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets therapy. Withdrawal Do not abruptly discontinue oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids. When discontinuing oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets in a physically dependent patient, gradually taper the dosage. Rapid tapering of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids may lead to a withdrawal syndrome and return of pain [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. Additionally, avoid the use of mixed agonist/antagonist (e.g, pentazocine, nalbuphine, and butorphanol) or partial agonist (e.g., buprenorphine) analgesics in patients who are receiving a full opioid agonist analgesic, including oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets. In these patients, mixed agonist/antagonist and partial agonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms [see PRECAUTIONS; DRUG INTERACTIONS ]. Risks of Driving and Operating Machinery Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets may impair the mental or physical abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving a car or operating machinery. Warn patients not to drive or operate dangerous machinery unless they are tolerant to the effects of oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets and know how they will react to the medication [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. As an opioid, Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets exposes users to the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Drug Abuse and Dependence]. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Warnings, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression; Dosage and Administration, Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose]. Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid antagonists, depending on the patient’s clinical status [see Overdosage]. While serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression can occur at any time during the use of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, the risk is greatest during the initiation of therapy or following a dosage increase. To reduce the risk of respiratory depression, proper dosing and titration of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets are essential [see Dosage and Administration]. Accidental ingestion of even one dose of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, especially by children, can result in respiratory depression and death due to an overdose of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help right away in the event of a known or suspected overdose [see Precautions, Information for Patients/Caregivers]. In patients who present with CSA, consider decreasing the opioid dosage using best practices for opioid taper [see Dosage and Administration]. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help, even if naloxone is administered [see Precautions, Information for Patients/Caregivers]. If naloxone is prescribed, educate patients and caregivers on how to treat with naloxone [see Warnings, Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse, Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants; Precautions, Information for Patients/Caregivers; Overdosage]. Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of Oxycodone And Acetaminophen Tablets with benzodiazepines and/or other CNS depressants, including alcohol (e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids). Because of similar pharmacological properties, it is reasonable to expect similar risk with the concomitant use of other CNS depressant drugs with opioid analgesics [see Precautions; Drug Interactions]. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction and educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Warnings, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression; Dosage and Administration, Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose]. Advise pregnant women using opioids for an extended period of time of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [see Precautions; Information for Patients/Caregivers, Pregnancy]. To obtain further information on the opioid analgesic REMS and for a list of accredited REMS CME/CE, call 800-503-0784, or log on to www.opioidanalgesicrems.com. The FDA Blueprint can be found at www.fda.gov/OpioidAnalgesicREMSBlueprint. Risks of Concomitant Use or Discontinuation of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers Concomitant use of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets with a CYP3A4 inhibitor, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may increase plasma concentrations of oxycodone hydrochloride and prolong opioid adverse reactions, which may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see Warnings] , particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets are achieved. When using Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets with CYP3A4 inhibitors or discontinuing CYP3A4 inducers in Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets-treated patients, evaluate patients at frequent intervals and consider dosage reduction of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets until stable drug effects are achieved [see Precautions; Drug Interactions]. When using Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets with CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuing CYP3A4 inhibitors, monitor patients closely at frequent intervals and consider increasing the opioid dosage if needed to maintain adequate analgesia or if symptoms of opioid withdrawal occur [see Precautions; Drug Interactions]. This condition differs from tolerance, which is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect [see Dependence] . If a patient is suspected to be experiencing OIH, carefully consider appropriately decreasing the dose of the current opioid analgesic or opioid rotation (safely switching the patient to a different opioid moiety) [see Dosage and Administration; Warnings]. Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease: Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets-treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea, even at recommended dosages of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets [see Warnings; Life Threatening Respiratory Depression]. Elderly, Cachetic, or Debilitated Patients: Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients because they may have altered pharmacokinetics or altered clearance compared to younger, healthier patients [see Warnings; Life Threatening Respiratory Depression]. Regularly evaluate patients, particularly when initiating and titrating Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets and when Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets are given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration [see Warnings]. There is increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs (e.g., phenothiazines or general anesthetics) [see Precautions; Drug Interactions]. In patients with circulatory shock Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets may cause vasodilatation that can further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. Patients should be informed about the signs of serious skin reactions, and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity/Anaphylaxis There have been post-marketing reports of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis associated with use of acetaminophen. Do not prescribe Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets for patients with acetaminophen allergy [see Precautions; Information for Patients/Caregivers]. Risks of Use in Patients with Increased Intracranial Pressure, Brain Tumors, Head Injury, or Impaired Consciousness In patients who may be susceptible to the intracranial effects of CO2 retention (e.g., those with evidence of increased intracranial pressure or brain tumors), Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets may reduce respiratory drive, and the resultant CO2 retention can further increase intracranial pressure. Rapid tapering of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids may lead to a withdrawal syndrome and return of pain [see Dosage and Administration, Drug Abuse and Dependence]. Additionally, avoid the use of mixed agonist/antagonist (e.g., pentazocine, nalbuphine, and butorphanol) or partial agonist (e.g., buprenorphine) analgesics in patients who are receiving a full opioid agonist analgesic, including Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets. In these patients, mixed agonist/antagonist and partial agonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms [see Precautions; Drug Interactions]. Warn patients not to drive or operate dangerous machinery unless they are tolerant to the effects of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets and know how they will react to the medication [see Precautions; Information for Patients/Caregivers].
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment or hypercarbia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] . Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to oxycodone [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Significant respiratory depression (4) Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in absence of resuscitative equipment (4) Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus (4) Hypersensitivity to oxycodone (4) CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets should not be administered to patients with known hypersensitivity to oxycodone, acetaminophen, or any other component of this product. Oxycodone is contraindicated in any situation where opioids are contraindicated including patients with significant respiratory depression (in unmonitored settings or the absence of resuscitative equipment) and patients with acute or severe bronchial asthma or hypercarbia. Oxycodone is contraindicated in the setting of suspected or known paralytic ileus. CONTRAINDICATIONS ENDOCET is contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see WARNINGS ] Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see WARNINGS ] Hypersensitivity to oxycodone, acetaminophen, or any other component of the product (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see WARNINGS , ADVERSE REACTIONS ] CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxycodone and acetaminophen tablets is contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see WARNINGS ] Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see WARNINGS ] Hypersensitivity to oxycodone, acetaminophen, or any other component of the product (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see WARNINGS , ADVERSE REACTIONS ] 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride are contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxycodone HCl is contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment or hypercarbia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to oxycodone [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . Significant respiratory depression. ( 4 ) Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in absence of resuscitative equipment. ( 4 ) Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to oxycodone. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution is contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] Hypersensitivity to oxycodone [see Adverse Reactions (6) ] Significant respiratory depression. (4) Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in absence of resuscitative equipment. (4) Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. (4) Hypersensitivity to oxycodone. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution is contraindicated in patients with: • Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] • Hypersensitivity to oxycodone (e.g., angioedema) [see Adverse Reactions (6)] • Significant respiratory depression (4) • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting in absence of resuscitative equipment. (4) • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. (4) • Hypersensitivity to oxycodone. CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings] Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [ see Warnings] Hypersensitivity to oxycodone, acetaminophen, or any other component of the product (e.g. anaphylaxis) [see Warnings, Adverse Reactions]
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 1 includes clinically significant drug interactions with oxycodone hydrochloride. Table 1: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Oxycodone Hydrochloride Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of oxycodone hydrochloride and CYP3A4 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of oxycodone, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of oxycodone hydrochloride and CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of oxycodone hydrochloride is achieved [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] . After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the oxycodone plasma concentration will decrease [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] , resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of oxycodone hydrochloride until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate patients at frequent intervals for respiratory depression and sedation. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone hydrochloride dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate for signs of opioid withdrawal. Examples: Macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir). CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of oxycodone hydrochloride and CYP3A4 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of oxycodone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to oxycodone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] . After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the oxycodone plasma concentration will increase [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] , which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the oxycodone hydrochloride dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate patients for signs of opioid withdrawal. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider oxycodone hydrochloride dosage reduction and evaluate patients at frequent intervals for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Examples: Rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] . Intervention: Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction and educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.3)]. Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, gabapentinoids (gabapentin or pregabalin), other opioids, alcohol. Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)] . Intervention: If concomitant use is warranted, frequently evaluate the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue oxycodone hydrochloride if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Examples: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Intervention: The use of oxycodone hydrochloride is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. If urgent use of an opioid is necessary, use test doses and frequent titration of small doses to treat pain while closely monitoring blood pressure and signs and symptoms of CNS and respiratory depression. Examples: phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone hydrochloride and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use Examples: Butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, buprenorphine Muscle Relaxants Clinical Impact: Oxycodone may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Intervention: Because respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected, decrease the dosage of oxycodone hydrochloride and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3)]. Examples: Cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of dismissed diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Anticholinergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant risk of anticholinergic drugs may result in increased risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when oxycodone hydrochloride is used concurrently with anticholinergic drugs. Serotonergic Drugs : Concomitant use may result in serotonin syndrome. (7) Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics : Avoid use with oxycodone hydrochloride because they may reduce analgesic effect of oxycodone hydrochloride or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. (7) Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) : Can potentiate the effects of morphine. Avoid concomitant use in patients receiving MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping treatment with an MAOI. (7) Drug Interactions Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 The concomitant use of ENDOCET and CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), can increase the plasma concentration of oxycodone, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of ENDOCET and CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitors, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of ENDOCET is achieved [see WARNINGS ] . After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the oxycodone plasma concentration will decrease [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] , resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to ENDOCET. If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of ENDOCET until stable drug effects are achieved. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the ENDOCET dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Inducers of CYP3A4 The concomitant use of ENDOCET and CYP3A4 inducers, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, can decrease the plasma concentration of oxycodone [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to ENDOCET [see WARNINGS ] . After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the oxycodone plasma concentration will increase [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] , which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the ENDOCET dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider ENDOCET dosage reduction and evaluate patients at frequent intervals for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Benzodiazepines and Other CNS Depressants Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines and other CNS depressants such as benzodiazepines and other sedative hypnotics, anxiolytics, and tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, and other opioids, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction, educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS ] . Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), tryptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue), has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients /Caregivers ] . If concomitant use is warranted, frequently evaluate the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue ENDOCET if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The concomitant use of opioids and MAOIs, such as phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid, may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see WARNINGS ] . The use of ENDOCET is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics The concomitant use of opioids with other opioid analgesics, such as butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, may reduce the analgesic effect of ENDOCET and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Advise patient to avoid concomitant use of these drugs. Muscle Relaxants ENDOCET may enhance the neuromuscular-blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increase in the degree of respiratory depression. Because respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected, decrease the dosage of ENDOCET and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS ] . Diuretics Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Evaluate patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Anticholinergic Drugs The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Evaluate patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when ENDOCET is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Alcohol, ethyl Hepatotoxicity has occurred in chronic alcoholics following various dose levels (moderate to excessive) of acetaminophen. Oral Contraceptives Increase in glucuronidation resulting in increased plasma clearance and a decreased half-life of acetaminophen. Charcoal (activated) Reduces acetaminophen absorption when administered as soon as possible after overdose. Beta Blockers (Propranolol) Propranolol appears to inhibit the enzyme systems responsible for the glucuronidation and oxidation of acetaminophen. Therefore, the pharmacologic effects of acetaminophen may be increased. Loop Diuretics The effects of the loop diuretic may be decreased because acetaminophen may decrease renal prostaglandin excretion and decrease plasma renin activity. Lamotrigine Serum lamotrigine concentrations may be reduced, producing a decrease in therapeutic effects. Probenecid Probenecid may increase the therapeutic effectiveness of acetaminophen slightly. Zidovudine The pharmacologic effects of zidovudine may be decreased because of enhanced non-hepatic or renal clearance of zidovudine. Examples: Rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.3)] . Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, alcohol. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3)] . Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 1 includes clinically significant drug interactions with oxycodone HCl. Table 1: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Oxycodone HCl Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of oxycodone HCl and CYP3A4 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of oxycodone, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of oxycodone HCl and CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of oxycodone HCl is achieved [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the oxycodone plasma concentration will decrease [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of oxycodone HCl until stable drug effects are achieved. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the oxycodone HCl dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of oxycodone HCl and CYP3A4 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of oxycodone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to oxycodone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the oxycodone plasma concentration will increase [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the oxycodone HCl dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider oxycodone HCl dosage reduction and evaluate patients at frequent intervals for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Examples: Rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3) ] . Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . Discontinue oxycodone HCl if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Intervention: The use of oxycodone HCl is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Examples: phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid Mixed Agonist/Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone HCl and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Intervention: Because respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected, decrease the dosage of oxycodone HCl and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3) ] . Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when oxycodone HCl is used concurrently with anticholinergic drugs. Serotonergic Drugs: Concomitant use may result in serotonin syndrome. Discontinue oxycodone HCl tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected. ( 7 ) Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics: Avoid use with oxycodone HCl tablets because they may reduce analgesic effect of oxycodone HCl tablets or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. ( 7 ) Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): Can potentiate the effects of morphine. ( 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 1 includes clinically significant drug interactions with Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution. Table 1: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution and CYP3A4 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of oxycodone, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution and CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution is achieved [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the oxycodone plasma concentration will decrease [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ], resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to oxycodone. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution until stable drug effects are achieved. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution dosage until stable drug effects are achieved [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. Examples: Macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir). CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution and CYP3A4 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of oxycodone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ], resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to oxycodone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15) ]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the oxycodone plasma concentration will increase [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ], which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution dosage reduction and evaluate patients at frequent intervals for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Examples: Rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin. Benzodiazepines and other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4) ]. Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. Discontinue Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Intervention: The use of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Examples: phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use. Examples: butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, buprenorphine. Muscle Relaxants Clinical Impact: Oxycodone may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Intervention: Because of respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected, decrease the dosage of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.3 , 5.4) ]. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Anticholinergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. (7) Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): Can potentiate the effects of oxycodone. (7) Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics: Avoid use with Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution because they may reduce analgesic effect of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution and CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution is achieved [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Example Macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution and CYP3A4 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of oxycodone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ], resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to oxycodone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution dosage reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression. Examples Rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin Benzodiazepines and other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants including alcohol, increases the risk of respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Follow patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . Examples Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, alcohol. Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Intervention: If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Examples: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone) monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Examples: phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Examples: butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, buprenorphine Muscle Relaxants Clinical Impact: Oxycodone may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. • Serotonergic Drugs: Concomitant use may result in serotonin syndrome. ( 7 ) • Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): Can potentiate the effects of oxycodone. ( 7 ) • Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics: Avoid use with Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution because they may reduce analgesic effect of Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. DRUG INTERACTIONS Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 The concomitant use of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets and CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets and CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitors, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets are achieved [see Warnings]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the oxycodone plasma concentration will decrease [see Clinical Pharmacology] , resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets. If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets until stable drug effects are achieved. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Inducers of CYP3A4 The concomitant use of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets and CYP3A4 inducers, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, can decrease the plasma concentration of oxycodone [see Clinical Pharmacology] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets [see Warnings]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the oxycodone plasma concentration will increase [see Clinical Pharmacology] , which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate for sign of opioid withdrawal. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets dosage reduction and evaluate patients at frequent intervals for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines and other CNS depressants such as benzodiazepines and other sedative hypnotics, anxiolytics, and tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, and other opioids, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Warnings]. Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), tryptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue), has resulted in serotonin syndrome. [see Precautions; Information for Patients/Caregivers]. If concomitant use is warranted, frequently monitor the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets immediately if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The concomitant use of opioids and MAOIs, such as phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid, may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings]. The use of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets are not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics The concomitant use of opioids with other opioid analgesics, such as butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, may reduce the analgesic effect of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Muscle Relaxants Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Because respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Warnings]. Evaluate patients for signs for diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Evaluate patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets are used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Zidovudine The pharmacologic effects of zidovudine may be decreased because of enhanced non-hepatic or renal clearance of zidovudine Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Depending on the sensitivity/specificity and the test methodology, the individual components of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets may cross-react with assays used in the preliminary detection of cocaine (primary urinary metabolite, benzoylecgonine) or marijuana (cannabinoids) in human urine. A more specific alternate chemical method must be used in order to obtain a confirmed analytical result. The preferred confirmatory method is gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS). Moreover, clinical considerations and professional judgment should be applied to any drug-of-abuse test result, particularly when preliminary positive results are used. Acetaminophen may interfere with home blood glucose measurement systems; decreases of >20% in mean glucose values may be noted. This effect appears to be drug, concentration and system dependent. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Long-term studies to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of the combination of Oxycodone Hydrochloride and Acetaminophen have not been conducted. Long-term studies in mice and rats have been completed by the National Toxicology Program to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of acetaminophen. In 2-year feeding studies, F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice were fed a diet containing acetaminophen up to 6000 ppm. Female rats demonstrated equivocal evidence of carcinogenic activity based on increased incidences of mononuclear cell leukemia at 0.8 times the maximum human daily dose (MHDD) of 4 grams/day, based on a body surface area comparison. In contrast, there was no evidence of carcinogenic activity in male rats that received up to 0.7 times or mice at up to 1.2-1.4 times the MHDD, based on a body surface area comparison. Mutagenesis The combination of Oxycodone Hydrochloride and Acetaminophen has not been evaluated for mutagenicity. Oxycodone alone was negative in a bacterial reverse mutation assay (Ames), an in vitro chromosome aberration assay with human lymphocytes without metabolic activation and an in vivo mouse micronucleus assay. Oxycodone was clastogenic in the human lymphocyte chromosomal assay in the presence of metabolic activation and in the mouse lymphoma assay with or without metabolic activation. In the published literature, acetaminophen has been reported to be clastogenic when administered at 1500 mg/kg/day to the rat model (3.6-times the MHDD, based on a body surface area comparison). In contrast, no clastogenicity was noted at a dose of 750 mg/kg/day (1.8-times the MHDD, based on a body surface area comparison), suggesting a threshold effect. Impairment of Fertility In studies conducted by the National Toxicology Program, fertility assessments with acetaminophen have been completed in Swiss CD-1 mice via a continuous breeding study. There were no effects on fertility parameters in mice consuming up to 1.7 times the MHDD of acetaminophen, based on a body surface area comparison. Although there was no effect on sperm motility or sperm density in the epididymis, there was a significant increase in the percentage of abnormal sperm in mice consuming 1.78 times the MHDD (based on a body surface comparison) and there was a reduction in the number of mating pairs producing a fifth litter at this dose, suggesting the potential for cumulative toxicity with chronic administration of acetaminophen near the upper limit of daily dosing. Published studies in rodents report that oral acetaminophen treatment of male animals at doses that are 1.2 times the MHDD and greater (based on a body surface comparison) result in decreased testicular weights, reduced spermatogenesis, reduced fertility, and reduced implantation sites in females given the same doses. These effects appear to increase with the duration of treatment. The clinical significance of these findings is not known. Infertility Use of opioids for an extended period of time may cause reduced fertility in females and males of reproductive potential. It is not known whether these effects on fertility are reversible [see Adverse Reactions]. Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Animal reproductive studies have not been conducted with Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets. It is also not known whether Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity. Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets should not be given to a pregnant woman unless in the judgment of the physician, the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards. Nonteratogenic Effects Fetal/Neonatal Adverse Reactions Use of opioid analgesics for an extended period of time during pregnancy for medical or nonmedical purposes can result in physical dependence in the neonate and neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome shortly after birth. Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome presents as irritability, hyperactivity and abnormal sleep pattern, high pitched cry, tremor, vomiting, diarrhea and failure to gain weight. The onset, duration, and severity of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome vary based on the specific opioid used, duration of use, timing and amount of last maternal use, and rate of elimination of the drug by the newborn. Observe newborns for symptoms of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and manage accordingly [see Warnings]. Labor or Delivery Opioids cross the placenta and may produce respiratory depression and psycho-physiologic effects in neonates. An opioid antagonist, such as naloxone, must be available for reversal of opioid-induced respiratory depression in the neonate. Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets are not recommended for use in pregnant women during or immediately prior to labor, when other analgesic techniques are more appropriate. Opioid analgesics, including Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets, can prolong labor through actions which temporarily reduce the strength, duration, and frequency of uterine contractions. However, this effect is not consistent and may be offset by an increased rate of cervical dilation, which tends to shorten labor. Monitor neonates exposed to opioid analgesics during labor for signs of excess sedation and respiratory depression. Nursing Mothers Available data from lactation studies indicate that oxycodone is present in breastmilk and that doses of less than 60 mg/day of the immediate-release formulation are unlikely to result in clinically relevant exposures in breastfed infants. A pharmacokinetics study utilizing opportunistic sampling of 76 lactating women receiving oxycodone immediate-release products for postpartum pain management showed that oxycodone concentrates in breastmilk with an average milk to plasma ratio of 3.2. The relative infant dose was low, approximately 1.3% of a weight-adjusted maternal dose (see Data). In the same study, among the 70 infants exposed to oxycodone in breastmilk, no adverse events were attributed to oxycodone. However, based on known adverse effects in adults, infants should be monitored for signs of excess sedation and respiratory depression (see Clinical Considerations) . There are no data on the effects of the oxycodone on milk production. Acetaminophen is also excreted in breast milk in low concentrations. The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother’s clinical need for Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets or from the underlying maternal condition. Infants exposed to Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets through breast milk should be monitored for excess sedation and respiratory depression. Withdrawal symptoms can occur in breastfed infants when maternal administration of an opioid analgesic is stopped, or when breast-feeding is stopped. Data Oxycodone concentration data from 76 lactating women receiving immediate-release oxycodone products for postpartum pain management, and 28 infants exposed to oxycodone in breastmilk showed that following a median (range) dose of oxycodone in mothers of 9.2 (5-10) mg/dose or 33.0 (5.4-59.3) mg/day, oxycodone concentrated in breastmilk with a median (range) milk to plasma ratio of 3.2 (1.2-5.3). However, when using maternal breastmilk data to estimate the daily and relative infant dose, the infant dose was 0.006 mg/kg/day, which is 1.3% of a weight-adjusted maternal dose of 10 mg every 6 hours. These estimates based on maternal breastmilk concentrations were corroborated by the observed infant concentrations, of which over 75% (19/25) were below the limit of quantification. Among the 6 infants with quantifiable concentration, the median (range) concentration was 0.2 ng/mL (0.1-0.7). These concentrations are 100 to 1000 times lower than concentrations observed in other studies after infants received oxycodone at 0.1 mg/kg/dose (~20-200 ng/mL). Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets in pediatric patients have not been established. Geriatric Use Elderly patients (aged 65 years or older) may have increased sensitivity Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets. In general, use caution when selecting a dosage for an elderly patient, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Respiratory depression is the chief risk for elderly patients treated with opioids, and has occurred after large initial doses were administered to patients who were not opioid-tolerant or when opioids were co-administered with other agents that depress respiration. Titrate the dosage of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets slowly in geriatric patients and frequently reevaluate the patient for signs of central nervous system and respiratory depression [see Warnings]. These drugs are known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of adverse reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function. Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and it may be useful to regularly evaluate renal function. Hepatic Impairment In a pharmacokinetic study of oxycodone in patients with end-stage liver disease, oxycodone plasma clearance decreased and the elimination half-life increased. Because oxycodone is extensively metabolized in the liver, its clearance may decrease in patients with hepatic impairment. Initiate therapy in these patients with a lower than usual dosage of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets and titrate carefully. Monitor closely for adverse events such as respiratory depression, sedation, and hypotension [see Clinical Pharmacology]. Renal Impairment In a study of patients with end stage renal impairment, mean elimination half-life was prolonged in uremic patients due to increased volume of distribution and reduced clearance. Oxycodone should be used with caution in patients with renal impairment. Because oxycodone is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, its clearance may decrease in patients with renal impairment. Initiate therapy with a lower than usual dosage of Oxycodone and Acetaminophen Tablets and titrate carefully.

=== OLMESARTAN MEDOXOMIL ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide is not indicated for the initial therapy of hypertension [see Dosage and Administration (2) ] . Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including the class to which this drug principally belongs. There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide may be used alone, or in combination with other antihypertensive drugs. Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide is a combination of olmesartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker and hydrochlorothiazide, a thiazide diuretic indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, alone or with other antihypertensive agents, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular (CV) events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets. Amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets may also be used as initial therapy in patients who are likely to need multiple antihypertensive agents to achieve their blood pressure goals. Patients with moderate or severe hypertension are at relatively high risk for cardiovascular events (such as strokes, heart attacks, and heart failure), kidney failure, and vision problems, so prompt treatment is clinically relevant. The decision to use a combination as initial therapy should be individualized and should be shaped by considerations such as baseline blood pressure, the target goal, and the incremental likelihood of achieving goal with a combination compared to monotherapy. Individual blood pressure goals may vary based upon the patient’s risk. Data from an 8-week, placebo-controlled, parallel-group factorial study [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] provide estimates of the probability of reaching a blood pressure goal with amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets compared to amlodipine or olmesartan medoxomil monotherapy. The figures below provide estimates of the likelihood of achieving the targeted systolic or diastolic blood pressure goals with amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets 10/40 mg compared with amlodipine or olmesartan medoxomil monotherapy, based upon baseline systolic or diastolic blood pressure. The curve of each treatment group was estimated by logistic regression modeling from all available data of that treatment group. The right tail of each curve is less reliable because of small numbers of subjects with high baseline blood pressures. Figure 1: Probability of Achieving Systolic Blood Pressure (SBP) < 140 mmHg at Week 8 With LOCF Figure 2: Probability of Achieving Diastolic Blood Pressure (DBP) < 90 mmHg at Week 8 With LOCF Figure 3: Probability of Achieving Systolic Blood Pressure (SBP) < 130 mmHg at Week 8 With LOCF Figure 4: Probability of Achieving Diastolic Blood Pressure (DBP) < 80 mmHg at Week 8 With LOCF The figures above provide an approximation of the likelihood of reaching a targeted blood pressure goal (e.g., Week 8 SBP < 140 mmHg or < 130 mmHg or a DBP < 90 mmHg or <80 mmHg) for the high-dose treatment groups evaluated in the study. Amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets 5/20 mg, the lowest dose combination treatment group, increases the probability of reaching blood pressure goal compared with the highest dose monotherapies, amlodipine 10 mg and olmesartan medoxomil 40 mg. For example, a patient with a baseline blood pressure of 160/100 mmHg has about a 48% likelihood of achieving a goal of < 140 mmHg (systolic) and a 51% likelihood of achieving a goal of < 90 mmHg (diastolic) on monotherapy with olmesartan medoxomil 40 mg, and about a 46% likelihood of achieving a goal of < 140 mmHg (systolic) and a 60% likelihood of achieving a goal of < 90 mmHg (diastolic) on monotherapy with amlodipine 10 mg. The likelihood of achieving these same goals increases to 63% (systolic) and 71% (diastolic) on amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets 5/20 mg, and to 68% (systolic) and 85% (diastolic) on amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets 10/40 mg. Amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets are a combination of amlodipine besylate, a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker, and olmesartan medoxomil, an angiotensin II receptor blocker, indicated for the treatment of hypertension, alone or with other antihypertensive agents, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions ( 1 ). Amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets may also be used as initial therapy in patients likely to need multiple antihypertensive agents to achieve their blood pressure goals (1) . Figures 1 & 2 Figures 1 & 2 Figures 3 & 4 Figures 3 & 4 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not indicated for the initial therapy of hypertension [see Dosage and Administration (2) ]. There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be used alone, or in combination with other antihypertensive drugs. Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are a combination of olmesartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker and hydrochlorothiazide, a thiazide diuretic indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not indicated for the initial therapy of hypertension [see Dosage and Administration ( 2 )]. Limitations of Use Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is not indicated for the initial therapy of hypertension. • Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are a combination of olmesartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker and hydrochlorothiazide, a thiazide diuretic indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is not indicated for initial therapy. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Olmesartan medoxomil tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension in adults and children six years of age and older, to lower blood pressure. There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with olmesartan medoxomil tablets. It may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. • Olmesartan medoxomil tablets is an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) indicated for the treatment of hypertension in adult and pediatric patients six years of age and older,alone or with other antihypertensive agents, to lower blood pressure. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Olmesartan medoxomil tablet is indicated for the treatment of hypertension in adults and children six years of age and older, to lower blood pressure. There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with olmesartan medoxomil. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program's Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Olmesartan medoxomil tablets are angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) indicated for the treatment of hypertension in adult and pediatric patients six years of age and older, alone or with other antihypertensive agents, to lower blood pressure. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Olmesartan medoxomil tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension in adults and children six years of age and older, to lower blood pressure. Olmesartan medoxomil tablets are an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) indicated for the treatment of hypertension in adult and pediatric patients six years of age and older, alone or with other antihypertensive agents, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions (1) . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amlodipine besylate and olmesartan medoxomil is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, alone or with other antihypertensive agents, to lower blood pressure. There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with amlodipine besylate and olmesartan medoxomil. Amlodipine besylate and olmesartan medoxomil may also be used as initial therapy in patients who are likely to need multiple antihypertensive agents to achieve their blood pressure goals. Data from an 8-week, placebo-controlled, parallel-group factorial study [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ] provide estimates of the probability of reaching a blood pressure goal with amlodipine besylate and olmesartan medoxomil compared to amlodipine or olmesartan medoxomil monotherapy. The figures below provide estimates of the likelihood of achieving the targeted systolic or diastolic blood pressure goals with amlodipine besylate and olmesartan medoxomil 10/40 mg compared with amlodipine or olmesartan medoxomil monotherapy, based upon baseline systolic or diastolic blood pressure. The figures above provide an approximation of the likelihood of reaching a targeted blood pressure goal (e.g., Week 8 SBP <140 mmHg or <130 mmHg or a DBP <90 mmHg or <80 mmHg) for the high-dose treatment groups evaluated in the study. Amlodipine besylate and olmesartan medoxomil 5/20 mg, the lowest dose combination treatment group, increases the probability of reaching blood pressure goal compared with the highest dose monotherapies, amlodipine 10 mg and olmesartan medoxomil 40 mg. For example, a patient with a baseline blood pressure of 160/100 mmHg has about a 48% likelihood of achieving a goal of <140 mmHg (systolic) and a 51% likelihood of achieving a goal of <90 mmHg (diastolic) on monotherapy with olmesartan medoxomil 40 mg, and about a 46% likelihood of achieving a goal of <140 mmHg (systolic) and a 60% likelihood of achieving a goal of <90 mmHg (diastolic) on monotherapy with amlodipine 10 mg. The likelihood of achieving these same goals increases to 63% (systolic) and 71% (diastolic) on amlodipine besylate and olmesartan medoxomil 5/20 mg, and to 68% (systolic) and 85% (diastolic) on amlodipine besylate and olmesartan medoxomil 10/40 mg. Amlodipine besylate and olmesartan medoxomil is a combination of amlodipine besylate, a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker, and olmesartan medoxomil, an angiotensin II receptor blocker, indicated for the treatment of hypertension, alone or with other antihypertensive agents, to lower blood pressure. Amlodipine besylate and olmesartan medoxomil may also be used as initial therapy in patients likely to need multiple antihypertensive agents to achieve their blood pressure goals ( 1 ). Amlodipine and Olmesartan - PI charts.jpg Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not indicated for the initial therapy of hypertension [see Dosage and Administration ( 2 )] .
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended starting dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide is 40/12.5 mg once daily in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with olmesartan monotherapy. Dose can be titrated up to 40 /25 mg if necessary. The recommended starting dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide is 20/12.5 mg once daily in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with HCT monotherapy or who experience dose-limiting adverse reactions with hydrochlorothiazide. Patients titrated to the individual components (olmesartan and hydrochlorothiazide) may instead receive the corresponding dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide. Recommended starting dose in patients not adequately controlled with olmesartan monotherapy, 40/12.5 mg ( 2 ) Recommended starting dose in patients not adequately controlled with hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy, 20/12.5 mg ( 2 ) Adjust dose after 2 to 4 weeks, as needed, to a maximum of 40 mg / 25 mg olmesartan / hydrochlorothiazide ( 2 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual starting dose of amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets is 5/20 mg once daily. The dosage can be increased after 1 to 2 weeks of therapy to a maximum dose of one 10/40 mg tablet once daily as needed to control blood pressure [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Recommended starting dose: 5/20 mg once daily ( 2 ). Titrate as needed in two-week intervals up to a maximum of 10/40 mg once daily ( 2 ). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended starting dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is 40 mg/12.5 mg once daily in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with olmesartan monotherapy. Dose can be titrated up to 40 mg/25 mg if necessary. The recommended starting dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is 20 mg/12.5 mg once daily in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy or who experience dose-limiting adverse reactions with hydrochlorothiazide. Patients titrated to the individual components (olmesartan and hydrochlorothiazide) may instead receive the corresponding dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION The recommended starting dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are 40/12.5 mg once daily in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with olmesartan monotherapy. The recommended starting dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are 20/12.5 mg once daily in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with HCT monotherapy or who experience dose-limiting adverse reactions with hydrochlorothiazide. • Recommended starting dose in patients not adequately controlled with olmesartan monotherapy, 40/12.5 mg ( 2 ) • Recommended starting dose in patients not adequately controlled with hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy, 20/12.5 mg ( 2 ) • Adjust dose after 2 to 4 weeks, as needed, to a maximum of 40 mg / 25 mg olmesartan / hydrochlorothiazide ( 2 ) 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Indication Starting Dose Dose Range Adult Hypertension (2.1) 20 mg once daily 20 to 40 mg once daily Pediatric Hypertension (6 years of age and older) ( 2.2 ) 20 to <35 kg 10 mg once daily ≥35 kg 20 mg once daily 20 to <35 kg 10 to 20 mg once daily ≥35 kg 20 to 40 mg once daily. 2.1 Adult Hypertension Dosage must be individualized. The usual recommended starting dose of olmesartan medoxomil tablets is 20 mg once daily when used as monotherapy in patients who are not volume-contracted. For patients requiring further reduction in blood pressure after 2 weeks of therapy, the dose of olmesartan medoxomil tablets may be increased to 40 mg. Doses above 40 mg do not appear to have greater effect. Twice-daily dosing offers no advantage over the same total dose given once daily. For patients with possible depletion of intravascular volume (e.g., patients treated with diuretics, particularly those with impaired renal function), initiate olmesartan medoxomil tablets under close medical supervision and give consideration to use of a lower starting dose [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] 2.2 Pediatric Hypertension (6 Years of Age and Older) Dosage must be individualized. For children who can swallow tablets, the usual recommended starting dose of olmesartan medoxomil tablets is 10 mg once daily for patients who weigh 20 to <35 kg (44 to 77 lb), or 20 mg once daily for patients who weigh ≥35 kg. For patients requiring further reduction in blood pressure after 2 weeks of therapy, the dose of olmesartan medoxomil tablets may be increased to a maximum of 20 mg once daily for patients who weigh <35 kg or 40 mg once daily for patients who weigh ≥35 kg. Use of olmesartan medoxomil tablets in children less than 1 year of age is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] . For children who cannot swallow tablets, the same dose can be given using an extemporaneous suspension as described below [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Follow the suspension preparation instructions below to administer olmesartan medoxomil tablets as a suspension. Preparation of Suspension (for 200 mL of a 2 mg/mL suspension) Add 50 mL of Purified Water to an amber polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottle containing twenty olmesartan medoxomil tablets 20 mg and allow to stand for a minimum of 5 minutes. Shake the container for at least 1 minute and allow the suspension to stand for at least 1 minute. Repeat 1-minute shaking and 1-minute standing for four additional times. Add 100 mL of ORA-Sweet ® and 50 mL of ORA-Plus ®* to the suspension and shake well for at least 1 minute. The suspension should be refrigerated at 2 to 8°C (36 to 46°F) and can be stored for up to 4 weeks. Shake the suspension well before each use and return promptly to the refrigerator. * ORA-Sweet ® and ORA-Plus ® are registered trademarks of Paddock Laboratories, Inc. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Starting dose Dose Range Adult Hypertension (2.1) 20 mg once daily 20 - 40 mg once daily Pediatric Hypertension (6 years of age and older) (2.2) 20 to <35 kg 10 mg once daily ≥ 35 kg 20 mg once daily 20 to <35 kg 10 – 20 mg once daily ≥ 35 kg 20 - 40 mg once daily 2.1 Adult Hypertension Dosage must be individualized. For patients with possible depletion of intravascular volume (e.g., patients treated with diuretics, particularly those with impaired renal function), initiate olmesartan medoxomil under close medical supervision and give consideration to use of a lower starting dose [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . 2.2 Pediatric Hypertension (6 Years of Age and Older) Dosage must be individualized. For patients requiring further reduction in blood pressure after 2 weeks of therapy, the dose of olmesartan medoxomil may be increased to a maximum of 20 mg once daily for patients who weigh <35 kg or 40 mg once daily for patients who weigh ≥35 kg. Use of olmesartan medoxomil tablets in children <1 year of age is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] . For children who cannot swallow tablets, the same dose can be given using an extemporaneous suspension as described below [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Follow the suspension preparation instructions below to administer olmesartan medoxomil as a suspension. Preparation of Suspension (for 200 mL of a 2 mg/mL suspension) Add 50 mL of Purified Water to an amber polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottle containing twenty olmesartan medoxomil 20 mg tablets and allow to stand for a minimum of 5 minutes. Add 100 mL of Ora-Sweet ®* and 50 mL of Ora-Plus ®* to the suspension and shake well for at least 1 minute. The suspension should be refrigerated at 2-8°C (36-46°F) and can be stored for up to 4 weeks. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Starting Dose Dose Range Adult Hypertension (2.1) 20 mg once daily 20 to 40 mg once daily Pediatric Hypertension (6 years of age and older) (2.2) 20 to <35 kg 10 mg once daily ≥35 kg 20 mg once daily 20 to <35 kg 10 to 20 mg once daily ≥35 kg 20 to 40 mg once daily 2.1 Adult Hypertension Dosage must be individualized. For patients with possible depletion of intravascular volume (e.g., patients treated with diuretics, particularly those with impaired renal function), initiate olmesartan medoxomil tablets under close medical supervision and give consideration to use of a lower starting dose [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Use of olmesartan medoxomil tablets in children <1 year of age is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . For children who cannot swallow tablets, the same dose can be given using an extemporaneous suspension as described below [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . ———————————— *ORA-Sweet ® and ORA-Plus ® are registered trademarks of Paddock Laboratories, Inc. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual starting dose of amlodipine besylate and olmesartan medoxomil is 5/20 mg once daily. The dosage can be increased after 1 to 2 weeks of therapy to a maximum dose of one 10/40 mg tablet once daily as needed to control blood pressure [ s ee Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended starting dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is 40/12.5 mg once daily in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with olmesartan monotherapy. The recommended starting dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is 20/12.5 mg once daily in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with HCT monotherapy or who experience dose-limiting adverse reactions with hydrochlorothiazide.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide is contraindicated: In patients with hypersensitivity to any component of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 , 6.2 )] In patients with anuria [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] For coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes [ s ee Drug Interactions (7.4) ]. Hypersensitivity to any component of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide ( 4 ) Anuria ( 4 ) Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not co-administer aliskiren with amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets in patients with diabetes [ See Drug Interactions (7.2) ]. Do not co-administer aliskiren with amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets in patients with diabetes (4) . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated: In patients with hypersensitivity to any component of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets [see Adverse Reactions (6.1 , 6.2) ] In patients with anuria [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] For coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated: • In patients with hypersensitivity to any component of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 , 6.2 )] • In patients with anuria [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] • For co-administration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 )] • Hypersensitivity to any component of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ( 4 ) • Anuria ( 4 ) • Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes.( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil tablets in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 ) ]. Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil tablets in patients with diabetes. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil in patients with diabetes [See Drug Interactions ( 7.3 )]. Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil tablets in patients with diabetes ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil tablets in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions (7.3) ] . Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil tablets in patients with diabetes (4) . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not co-administer aliskiren with amlodipine besylate and olmesartan medoxomil in patients with diabetes [ see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )] . Do not co-administer aliskiren with amlodipine besylate and olmesartan medoxomil in patients with diabetes ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated: • In patients with hypersensitivity to any component of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 , 6.2 )] • In patients with anuria [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] • For coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 )]. • Hypersensitivity to any component of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ( 4 ) • Anuria ( 4 ) • Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity ( 7.2 ) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): Reduced diuretic, natriuretic and antihypotensive effects; increased risk of renal toxicity ( 7.3 ) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia ( 7.4 ) Colesevelam hydrochloride: Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride dose ( 7.5 ) Antidiabetic drugs: Dosage adjustment may be required ( 7.6 ) Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides ( 7.6 ) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. Monitor serum potassium in such patients. 7.2 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists or hydrochlorothiazide. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use. 7. 3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) Olmesartan medoxomil In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including olmesartan medoxomil) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Hydrochlorothiazide In some patients the administration of a NSAID can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of thiazide diuretics. Therefore, monitor blood pressure closely. 7.4 Dual Blockade of the Renin Angiotensin System Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes [see Contraindications (4) ]. Avoid use of aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). 7.5 Colesevelam H ydrochloride Concurrent administration of bile acid sequestering agent colesevelam hydrochloride reduces the systemic exposure and peak plasma concentration of olmesartan. Administration of olmesartan at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride decreased the drug interaction effect. Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before the colesevelam hydrochloride dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 6 The Use of Hydrochlorothiazide with Other Drugs When administered concurrently the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics: Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) : Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Ion exchange resins: Staggering the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and ion exchange resins (e.g., cholestyramine, colestipol) such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 – 6 hours after the administration of resins would potentially minimize the interaction [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Corticosteroids, ACTH : Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Amlodipine ( 7.1 ): If simvastatin is co-administered with amlodipine, do not exceed 20 mg daily of simvastatin. Increased exposure of cyclosporine and tacrolimus. Increased exposure of amlodipine when coadministered with CYP3A inhibitors. Olmesartan medoxomil ( 7.2 ): Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect. Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia. Colesevelam hydrochloride: Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride dose. Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity. 7.1 Drug Interactions with Amlodipine Simvastatin: Co-administration of simvastatin with amlodipine increases the systemic exposure of simvastatin. Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amlodipine to 20 mg daily [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Immunosuppressants: Amlodipine may increase the systemic exposure of cyclosporine or tacrolimus when co-administered. Frequent monitoring of trough blood levels of cyclosporine and tacrolimus is recommended and adjust the dose when appropriate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. CYP3A Inhibitors : Co-administration of amlodipine with CYP3A inhibitors (moderate and strong) results in increased systemic exposure to amlodipine and may require dose reduction. Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema when amlodipine is co-administered with CYP3A inhibitors to determine the need for dose adjustment. CYP3A Inducers: No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine. Blood pressure should be closely monitored when amlodipine is co-administered with CYP3A inducers. 7.2 Drug Interactions with Olmesartan Medoxomil Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS): Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets in patients with diabetes [ see Contraindications (4) ]. Avoid use of aliskiren with amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). Use with Colesevelam Hydrochloride: Concurrent administration of bile acid sequestering agent colesevelam hydrochloride reduces the systemic exposure and peak plasma concentration of olmesartan. Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including amlodipine and olmesartan medoxomil tablets. 7.3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) Olmesartan medoxomil In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including olmesartan medoxomil) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. 7.5 Colesevelam Hydrochloride Concurrent administration of bile acid sequestering agent colesevelam hydrochloride reduces the systemic exposure and peak plasma concentration of olmesartan. Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before the colesevelam hydrochloride dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.6 The Use of Hydrochlorothiazide with Other Drugs When administered concurrently the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics: Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin): Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Ion exchange resins: Staggering the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and ion exchange resins (e.g., cholestyramine, colestipol) such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of resins would potentially minimize the interaction [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Corticosteroids, ACTH: Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Agents increasing potassium levels may lead to increase in serum potassium ( 7.1 ). • Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity ( 7.2 ) • Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): Reduced diuretic, natriuretic and antihypertensive effects; increased risk of renal toxicity ( 7.3 ) • Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia ( 7.4 ) • Colesevelam hydrochloride: Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride dose ( 7.5 ) • Antidiabetic drugs: Dosage adjustment may be required ( 7.6 ) • Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides ( 7.6 ) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. Avoid use of aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before the colesevelam hydrochloride dose [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Ion exchange resins: Staggering the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and ion exchange resins (e.g., cholestyramine, colestipol) such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 - 6 hours after the administration of resins would potentially minimize the interaction [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Agents increasing potassium levels may lead to increase in serum potassium ( 7.1 ). NSAID use may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect ( 7.2 ). Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia ( 7.3 ). Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity ( 7.4 ). Colesevelam hydrochloride: Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride dose ( 7.5 ). 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Concomitant use of olmesartan with other agents that block the renin-angiotensin system, potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, amiloride), potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing potassium or other drugs that may increase potassium levels (e.g., heparin) may lead to increases in serum potassium. If co-medication is considered necessary, monitoring of serum potassium is advisable. 7.2 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil, may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. 7.3 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on olmesartan medoxomil tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil tablets in patients with diabetes [see Contraindications (4)]. Avoid use of aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR less than 60 ml/min). 7.4 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil tablets. Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before the colesevelam hydrochloride dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on olmesartan medoxomil and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil in patients with diabetes [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. Avoid use of aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). 7.4 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil. Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before the colesevelam hydrochloride dose [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Agents increasing potassium levels may lead to increase in serum potassium (7.1) . NSAID use may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect (7.2) . Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia (7.3) . Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity (7.4) . Colesevelam hydrochloride: Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride dose (7.5) . Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil in patients with diabetes [see Contraindications (4) ] . Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amlodipine to 20 mg daily [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Frequent monitoring of trough blood levels of cyclosporine and tacrolimus is recommended and adjust the dose when appropriate [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . CYP3A Inhibitors: Co-administration of amlodipine with CYP3A inhibitors (moderate and strong) results in increased systemic exposure to amlodipine and may require dose reduction. Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema when amlodipine is co-administered with CYP3A inhibitors to determine the need for dose adjustment . Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on amlodipine besylate and olmesartan medoxomil and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with amlodipine besylate and olmesartan medoxomil in patients with diabetes [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] . Avoid use of aliskiren with amlodipine besylate and olmesartan medoxomil in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including amlodipine besylate and olmesartan medoxomil. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity ( 7.2 ) • Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): Reduced diuretic, natriuretic and antihypotensive effects; increased risk of renal toxicity ( 7.3 ) • Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia ( 7.4 ) • Colesevelam hydrochloride: Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride dose ( 7.5 ) • Antidiabetic drugs: Dosage adjustment may be required ( 7.6 ) • Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides ( 7.6 ) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. 7.3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors Olmesartan medoxomil In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including olmesartan medoxomil) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Ion exchange resins: Staggering the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and ion exchange resins (e.g., cholestyramine, colestipol) such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 – 6 hours after the administration of resins would potentially minimize the interaction [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )].

=== OXCARBAZEPINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxcarbazepine tablets are indicated for use as monotherapy or adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures in adults and as monotherapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures in pediatric patients aged 4 years and above, and as adjunctive therapy in pediatric patients aged 2 years and above with partial-onset seizures. Oxcarbazepine tablets are indicated for: • Adults: Monotherapy or adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures • Pediatrics: - Monotherapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures in children 4 to 16 years - Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures in children 2 to 16 years ( 1 ) Oxcarbazepine tablets are indicated for: Adults: Monotherapy or adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures Pediatrics: Monotherapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures in children 4–16 years Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures in children 2–16 years ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxcarbazepine oral suspension is indicated for use as monotherapy or adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures in adults and as monotherapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures in pediatric patients aged 4 years and above, and as adjunctive therapy in pediatric patients aged 2 years and above with partial-onset seizures. Oxcarbazepine oral suspension is indicated for: Adults: Monotherapy or adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures Pediatrics: - Monotherapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures in children 4 to 16 years - Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures in children 2 to 16 years. (1) Oxcarbazepine oral suspension is indicated for: • Adults: Monotherapy or adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures • Pediatrics: - Monotherapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures in children 4 to 16 years - Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures in children 2 to 16 years (1) Oxcarbazepine tablets are indicated for use as monotherapy or adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures in adults and as monotherapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures in pediatric patients aged 4 years and above and as adjunctive therapy in pediatric patients aged 2 years and above with partial-onset seizures.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults : initiate with a dose of 600 mg/day, given twice a day • Adjunctive Therapy: Maximum increment of 600 mg/day at approximately weekly intervals. The recommended daily dose is 1200 mg/day ( 2.1 ) • Conversion to Monotherapy: Withdrawal concomitant over 3 to 6 weeks; reach maximum dose of oxcarbazepine tablets in 2 to 4 weeks with increments of 600 mg/day at weekly intervals to a recommended daily dose of 2400 mg/day ( 2.2 ) • Initiation of Monotherapy: Increments of 300 mg/day every third day to a dose of 1200 mg/day ( 2.3 ) • Initiate at one-half the usual starting dose and increase slowly in patients with a creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min ( 2.7 ) Pediatrics : initiation with 8 to 10 mg/kg/day, given twice a day. For patients aged 2 to < 4 years and under 20 kg, a starting dose of 16 to 20 mg/kg/day may be considered. Recommended daily dose is dependent upon patient weight. • Adjunctive Patients (Aged 2 to 16 Years): For patients aged 4 to 16 years, target maintenance dose should be achieved over 2 weeks ( 2.4 ). For patients aged 2 to < 4 years, maximum maintenance dose should be achieved over 2 to 4 weeks and should not exceed 60 mg/kg/day ( 2.4 ) • Conversion to Monotherapy for Patients (Aged 4 to 16 Years): Maximum increment of 10 mg/kg/day at weekly intervals, concomitant antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) can be completely withdrawn over 3 to 6 weeks ( 2.5 ) • Initiation of Monotherapy for Patients (Aged 4 to 16 Years): Increments of 5 mg/kg/day every third day ( 2.6 ) 2.1 Adjunctive Therapy for Adults Initiate oxcarbazepine tablets with a dose of 600 mg/day, given twice a day. If clinically indicated, the dose may be increased by a maximum of 600 mg/day at approximately weekly intervals; the maximum recommended daily dose is 1200 mg/day. Daily doses above 1200 mg/day show somewhat greater effectiveness in controlled trials, but most patients were not able to tolerate the 2400 mg/day dose, primarily because of central nervous (CNS) effects. Dosage adjustment is recommended with concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 enzyme inducers or UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGT) inducers, which include certain antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 , 7.2 ) ]. 2.2 Conversion to Monotherapy for Adults Patients receiving concomitant AEDs may be converted to monotherapy by initiating treatment with oxcarbazepine tablets at 600 mg/day (given in a twice a day regimen) while simultaneously initiating the reduction of the dose of the concomitant AEDs. The concomitant AEDs should be completely withdrawn over 3 to 6 weeks, while the maximum dose of oxcarbazepine tablets should be reached in about 2 to 4 weeks. Oxcarbazepine tablets may be increased as clinically indicated by a maximum increment of 600 mg/day at approximately weekly intervals to achieve the maximum recommended daily dose of 2400 mg/day. A daily dose of 1200 mg/day has been shown in one study to be effective in patients in whom monotherapy has been initiated with oxcarbazepine tablets. Patients should be observed closely during this transition phase. 2.3 Initiation of Monotherapy for Adults Patients not currently being treated with AEDs may have monotherapy initiated with oxcarbazepine tablets. In these patients, initiate oxcarbazepine tablets at a dose of 600 mg/day (given a twice a day); the dose should be increased by 300 mg/day every third day to a dose of 1200 mg/day. Controlled trials in these patients examined the effectiveness of a 1200 mg/day dose; a dose of 2400 mg/day has been shown to be effective in patients converted from other AEDs to oxcarbazepine tablets monotherapy (see above). 2.4 Adjunctive Therapy for Pediatric Patients (Aged 2 to 16 Years) In pediatric patients aged 4 to 16 years, initiate oxcarbazepine tablets at a daily dose of 8 to 10 mg/kg generally not to exceed 600 mg/day, given twice a day. The target maintenance dose of oxcarbazepine tablets should be achieved over 2 weeks, and is dependent upon patient weight, according to the following chart: • 20 to 29 kg-900 mg/day • 29.1 to 39 kg-1200 mg/day • 39 kg-1800 mg/day In the clinical trial, in which the intention was to reach these target doses, the median daily dose was 31 mg/kg with a range of 6 to 51 mg/kg. In pediatric patients aged 2 to < 4 years, initiate oxcarbazepine tablets at a daily dose of 8 to 10 mg/kg generally not to exceed 600 mg/day, given twice a day. For patients less than 20 kg, a starting dose of 16 to 20 mg/kg may be considered [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. The maximum maintenance dose of oxcarbazepine tablets should be achieved over 2 to 4 weeks and should not exceed 60 mg/kg/day in a twice a day regimen. In the clinical trial in pediatric patients (2 to 4 years of age), in which the intention was to reach the target dose of 60 mg/kg/day, 50% of patients reached a final dose of at least 55 mg/kg/day. Under adjunctive therapy (with and without enzyme-inducing AEDs), when normalized by body weight, apparent clearance (L/hr/kg) decreased when age increased such that children 2 to < 4 years of age may require up to twice the oxcarbazepine dose per body weight compared to adults; and children 4 to ≤ 12 years of age may require a 50% higher oxcarbazepine dose per body weight compared to adults. Dosage adjustment is recommended with concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 enzyme inducers or UGT inducers, which include certain AEDs [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 , 7.2 )]. 2.5 Conversion to Monotherapy for Pediatric Patients (Aged 4 to 16 Years) Patients receiving concomitant AEDs may be converted to monotherapy by initiating treatment with oxcarbazepine tablets at approximately 8 to 10 mg/kg/day given twice a day, while simultaneously initiating the reduction of the dose of the concomitant AEDs. The concomitant AEDs can be completely withdrawn over 3 to 6 weeks, while oxcarbazepine tablets may be increased as clinically indicated by a maximum increment of 10 mg/kg/day at approximately weekly intervals to achieve the recommended daily dose. The recommended total daily dose of oxcarbazepine tablets is shown in Table 1. 2.6 Initiation of Monotherapy for Pediatric Patients (Aged 4 to 16 Years) Patients not currently being treated with AEDs may have monotherapy initiated with oxcarbazepine tablets. In these patients, initiate oxcarbazepine tablets at a dose of 8 to 10 mg/kg/day given twice a day. The dose should be increased by 5 mg/kg/day every third day to the recommended daily dose shown in the table below. Table 1: Range of Maintenance Doses of Oxcarbazepine Tablets for Pediatrics by Weight During Monotherapy Weight in kg From To Dose (mg/day) Dose (mg/day) 20 600 900 25 900 1200 30 900 1200 35 900 1500 40 900 1500 45 1200 1500 50 1200 1800 55 1200 1800 60 1200 2100 65 1200 2100 70 1500 2100 2.7 Dosage Modification for Patients With Renal Impairment In patients with impaired renal function (creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min), initiate oxcarbazepine tablets at one-half the usual starting dose (300 mg/day, given twice a day), and increase slowly to achieve the desired clinical response [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 2.8 Administration Information Oxcarbazepine tablets can be taken with or without food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Oxcarbazepine oral suspension and oxcarbazepine tablets may be interchanged at equal doses. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults: initiate with a dose of 600 mg/day, given twice a day Adjunctive Therapy: Maximum increment of 600 mg/day at approximately weekly intervals. The recommended daily dose is 1200 mg/day ( 2.1 ) Conversion to Monotherapy: Withdrawal concomitant over 3 to 6 weeks; reach maximum dose of oxcarbazepine tablets in 2 to 4 weeks with increments of 600 mg/day at weekly intervals to a recommended daily dose of 2400 mg/day ( 2.2 ) Initiation of Monotherapy: Increments of 300 mg/day every third day to a dose of 1200 mg/day ( 2.3 ) Initiate at one-half the usual starting dose and increase slowly in patients with a creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min ( 2.7 ) Pediatrics: initiation with 8 to 10 mg/kg/day, given twice a day. Adjunctive Patients (Aged 2–16 Years): For patients aged 4 to 16 years, target maintenance dose should be achieved over 2 weeks ( 2.4 ). For patients aged 2 to < 4 years, maximum maintenance dose should be achieved over 2 to 4 weeks and should not exceed 60 mg/kg/day ( 2.4 ) Conversion to Monotherapy for Patients (Aged 4–16 Years): Maximum increment of 10 mg/kg/day at weekly intervals, concomitant antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) can be completely withdrawn over 3 to 6 weeks ( 2.5 ) Initiation of Monotherapy for Patients (Aged 4–16 Years): Increments of 5 mg/kg/day every third day ( 2.6 ) 2.1 Adjunctive Therapy for Adults Initiate oxcarbazepine tablets with a dose of 600 mg/day, given twice a day. Dosage adjustment is recommended with concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 enzyme inducers or UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGT) inducers, which include certain antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) [see Drug Interactions (7.1 , 7.2 ) ]. Controlled trials in these patients examined the effectiveness of a 1200 mg/day dose; a dose of 2400 mg/day has been shown to be effective in patients converted from other AEDs to oxcarbazepine tablets monotherapy (see above ). 2.4 Adjunctive Therapy for Pediatric Patients (Aged 2–16 Years) In pediatric patients aged 4–16 years, initiate oxcarbazepine tablets at a daily dose of 8 to 10 mg/kg generally not to exceed 600 mg/day, given twice a day. The target maintenance dose of oxcarbazepine tablets should be achieved over 2 weeks, and is dependent upon patient weight, according to the following chart: 20 to 29 kg– 900 mg/day 29.1 to 39 kg– 1200 mg/day 39 kg– 1800 mg/day In the clinical trial, in which the intention was to reach these target doses, the median daily dose was 31 mg/kg with a range of 6 to 51 mg/kg. For patients less than 20 kg, a starting dose of 16 to 20 mg/kg may be considered [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Dosage adjustment is recommended with concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 enzyme inducers or UGT inducers, which include certain AEDs [see Drug Interactions (7.1 , 7.2) ]. 2.5 Conversion to Monotherapy for Pediatric Patients (Aged 4–16 Years) Patients receiving concomitant AEDs may be converted to monotherapy by initiating treatment with oxcarbazepine tablets at approximately 8 to 10 mg/kg/day given twice a day, while simultaneously initiating the reduction of the dose of the concomitant AEDs. 2.6 Initiation of Monotherapy for Pediatric Patients (Aged 4–16 Years) Patients not currently being treated with AEDs may have monotherapy initiated with oxcarbazepine tablets. Table 1: Range of Maintenance Doses of Oxcarbazepine Tablets for Pediatrics by Weight During Monotherapy From To Weight in kg Dose (mg/day) Dose (mg/day) 20 600 900 25 900 1200 30 900 1200 35 900 1500 40 900 1500 45 1200 1500 50 1200 1800 55 1200 1800 60 1200 2100 65 1200 2100 70 1500 2100 2.7 Dosage Modification for Patients With Renal Impairment In patients with impaired renal function (creatinine clearance <30 mL/min), initiate oxcarbazepine tablets at one-half the usual starting dose (300 mg/day, given twice a day), and increase slowly to achieve the desired clinical response [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.8 Administration Information Oxcarbazepine tablets can be taken with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults : Initiate with a dose of 600 mg/day, given twice a day Adjunctive Therapy: Maximum increment of 600 mg/day at approximately weekly intervals. The recommended daily dose is 1,200 mg/day. ( 2.1 ) Conversion to Monotherapy: Withdrawal concomitant over 3 to 6 weeks; reach maximum dose of oxcarbazepine oral suspension in 2 to 4 weeks with increments of 600 mg/day at weekly intervals to a recommended daily dose of 2,400 mg/day. ( 2.2 ) Initiation of Monotherapy: Increments of 300 mg/day every third day to a dose of 1,200 mg/day. ( 2.3 ) Initiate at one-half the usual starting dose and increase slowly in patients with a creatinine clearance <30 mL/min. ( 2.7 ) Pediatrics : Initiation with 8 to 10 mg/kg/day, given twice a day. For patients aged 2 to <4 years and under 20 kg, a starting dose of 16 to 20 mg/kg/day may be considered. Adjunctive Patients (Aged 2 to 16 Years): For patients aged 4 to 16 years, target maintenance dose should be achieved over 2 weeks ( 2.4 ). For patients aged 2 to <4 years, maximum maintenance dose should be achieved over 2 to 4 weeks and should not exceed 60 mg/kg/day. ( 2.4 ) Conversion to Monotherapy for Patients (Aged 4 to 16 Years): Maximum increment of 10 mg/kg/day at weekly intervals, concomitant antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) can be completely withdrawn over 3 to 6 weeks. ( 2.5 ) Initiation of Monotherapy for Patients (Aged 4 to 16 Years): Increments of 5 mg/kg/day every third day. ( 2.6 ) 2.1 Adjunctive Therapy for Adults Initiate oxcarbazepine oral suspension with a dose of 600 mg/day, given twice a day. If clinically indicated, the dose may be increased by a maximum of 600 mg/day at approximately weekly intervals; the maximum recommended daily dose is 1,200 mg/day. Daily doses above 1,200 mg/day show somewhat greater effectiveness in controlled trials, but most patients were not able to tolerate the 2,400 mg/day dose, primarily because of central nervous (CNS) effects. Dosage adjustment is recommended with concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 enzyme inducers or UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGT) inducers, which include certain antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) [see Drug Interactions (7.1 , 7.2) ] . 2.2 Conversion to Monotherapy for Adults Patients receiving concomitant AEDs may be converted to monotherapy by initiating treatment with oxcarbazepine oral suspension at 600 mg/day (given in a twice a day regimen) while simultaneously initiating the reduction of the dose of the concomitant AEDs. The concomitant AEDs should be completely withdrawn over 3 to 6 weeks, while the maximum dose of oxcarbazepine oral suspension should be reached in about 2 to 4 weeks. Oxcarbazepine oral suspension may be increased as clinically indicated by a maximum increment of 600 mg/day at approximately weekly intervals to achieve the maximum recommended daily dose of 2,400 mg/day. A daily dose of 1,200 mg/day has been shown in one study to be effective in patients in whom monotherapy has been initiated with oxcarbazepine oral suspension. 2.3 Initiation of Monotherapy for Adults Patients not currently being treated with AEDs may have monotherapy initiated with oxcarbazepine oral suspension. In these patients, initiate oxcarbazepine oral suspension at a dose of 600 mg/day (given a twice a day); the dose should be increased by 300 mg/day every third day to a dose of 1,200 mg/day. Controlled trials in these patients examined the effectiveness of a 1,200 mg/day dose; a dose of 2,400 mg/day has been shown to be effective in patients converted from other AEDs to oxcarbazepine oral suspension monotherapy (see above). 2.4 Adjunctive Therapy for Pediatric Patients (Aged 2 to 16 Years) In pediatric patients aged 4 to 16 years, initiate oxcarbazepine oral suspension at a daily dose of 8 to 10 mg/kg generally not to exceed 600 mg/day, given twice a day. The target maintenance dose of oxcarbazepine oral suspension should be achieved over 2 weeks, and is dependent upon patient weight, according to the following chart: 20 to 29 kg – 900 mg/day 29.1 to 39 kg – 1,200 mg/day 39 kg – 1,800 mg/day In the clinical trial, in which the intention was to reach these target doses, the median daily dose was 31 mg/kg with a range of 6 to 51 mg/kg. In pediatric patients aged 2 to <4 years, initiate oxcarbazepine oral suspension at a daily dose of 8 to 10 mg/kg generally not to exceed 600 mg/day, given twice a day. For patients less than 20 kg, a starting dose of 16 to 20 mg/kg may be considered [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The maximum maintenance dose of oxcarbazepine oral suspension should be achieved over 2 to 4 weeks and should not exceed 60 mg/kg/day in a twice a day regimen. Under adjunctive therapy (with and without enzyme-inducing AEDs), when normalized by body weight, apparent clearance (L/hr/kg) decreased when age increased such that children 2 to <4 years of age may require up to twice the oxcarbazepine dose per body weight compared to adults; and children 4 to ≤12 years of age may require a 50% higher oxcarbazepine dose per body weight compared to adults. Dosage adjustment is recommended with concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 enzyme inducers or UGT inducers, which include certain antiepileptic drugs AEDs [see Drug Interactions (7.1 , 7.2) ] . 2.5 Conversion to Monotherapy for Pediatric Patients (Aged 4 to 16 Years) Patients receiving concomitant AEDs may be converted to monotherapy by initiating treatment with oxcarbazepine oral suspension at approximately 8 to 10 mg/kg/day given twice a day, while simultaneously initiating the reduction of the dose of the concomitant AEDs. The concomitant AEDs can be completely withdrawn over 3 to 6 weeks, while oxcarbazepine oral suspension may be increased as clinically indicated by a maximum increment of 10 mg/kg/day at approximately weekly intervals to achieve the recommended daily dose. The recommended total daily dose of oxcarbazepine oral suspension is shown in Table 1. 2.6 Initiation of Monotherapy for Pediatric Patients (Aged 4 to 16 Years) Patients not currently being treated with AEDs may have monotherapy initiated with oxcarbazepine oral suspension. In these patients, initiate oxcarbazepine oral suspension at a dose of 8 to 10 mg/kg/day given twice a day. T able 1: Range of Maintenance Doses of Oxcarbazepine Oral Suspension for Pediatrics by Weight During Monotherapy From To Weight in kg Dose (mg/day) Dose (mg/day) 20 600 900 25 900 1,200 30 900 1,200 35 900 1,500 40 900 1,500 45 1,200 1,500 50 1,200 1,800 55 1,200 1,800 60 1,200 2,100 65 1,200 2,100 70 1,500 2,100 2.7 Dosage Modification for Patients With Renal Impairment In patients with impaired renal function (creatinine clearance <30 mL/min), initiate oxcarbazepine oral suspension at one-half the usual starting dose (300 mg/day, given twice a day), and increase slowly to achieve the desired clinical response [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.8 Administration Information Oxcarbazepine oral suspension can be taken with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Before using oxcarbazepine oral suspension, shake the bottle well and prepare the dose immediately afterwards. The prescribed amount of oral suspension should be withdrawn from the bottle using the oral dosing syringe supplied. A household teaspoon or tablespoon is not an adequate measuring device and should not be used. Oxcarbazepine oral suspension can be mixed in a small glass of water just prior to administration, or alternatively, may be swallowed directly from the syringe. After each use, close the bottle and rinse the syringe with warm water, and allow it to dry thoroughly. Oxcarbazepine oral suspension and oxcarbazepine film-coated tablets may be substituted at equal doses. The recommended daily dose is 1200 mg/day ( 2.1 ) • Conversion to Monotherapy: Withdrawal concomitant over 3 to 6 weeks; reach maximum dose of oxcarbazepine oral suspension in 2 to 4 weeks with increments of 600 mg/day at weekly intervals to a recommended daily dose of 2400 mg/day ( 2.2 ) • Initiation of Monotherapy: Increments of 300 mg/day every third day to a dose of 1200 mg/day ( 2.3 ) • Initiate at one-half the usual starting dose and increase slowly in patients with a creatinine clearance <30 mL/min ( 2.7 ) Pediatrics: initiation with 8 to 10 mg/kg/day, given twice a day. For patients aged 2 to <4 years, maximum maintenance dose should be achieved over 2 to 4 weeks and should not exceed 60 mg/kg/day ( 2.4 ) • Conversion to Monotherapy for Patients (Aged 4 to 16 Years): Maximum increment of 10 mg/kg/day at weekly intervals, concomitant antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) can be completely withdrawn over 3 to 6 weeks ( 2.5 ) • Initiation of Monotherapy for Patients (Aged 4 to 16 Years): Increments of 5 mg/kg/day every third day ( 2.6 ) 2.1 Adjunctive Therapy for Adults Initiate oxcarbazepine oral suspension with a dose of 600 mg/day, given twice a day. Dosage adjustment is recommended with concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 enzyme inducers or UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGT) inducers, which include certain antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 , 7.2 )]. Oxcarbazepine oral suspension may be increased as clinically indicated by a maximum increment of 600 mg/day at approximately weekly intervals to achieve the maximum recommended daily dose of 2400 mg/day. A daily dose of 1200 mg/day has been shown in one study to be effective in patients in whom monotherapy has been initiated with oxcarbazepine oral suspension. In these patients, initiate oxcarbazepine oral suspension at a dose of 600 mg/day (given a twice a day); the dose should be increased by 300 mg/day every third day to a dose of 1200 mg/day. Controlled trials in these patients examined the effectiveness of a 1200 mg/day dose; a dose of 2400 mg/day has been shown to be effective in patients converted from other AEDs to oxcarbazepine oral suspension monotherapy (see above). The target maintenance dose of oxcarbazepine oral suspension should be achieved over 2 weeks, and is dependent upon patient weight, according to the following chart: • 20 to 29 kg-900 mg/day • 29.1 to 39 kg-1200 mg/day • 39 kg-1800 mg/day In the clinical trial, in which the intention was to reach these target doses, the median daily dose was 31 mg/kg with a range of 6 to 51 mg/kg. In pediatric patients aged 2 to < 4 years, initiate oxcarbazepine oral suspension at a daily dose of 8 to 10 mg/kg generally not to exceed 600 mg/day, given twice a day. Table 1: Range of Maintenance Doses of Oxcarbazepine Oral Suspension for Pediatrics by Weight During Monotherapy Weight in kg From To Dose (mg/day) Dose (mg/day) 20 600 900 25 900 1200 30 900 1200 35 900 1500 40 900 1500 45 1200 1500 50 1200 1800 55 1200 1800 60 1200 2100 65 1200 2100 70 1500 2100 2.7 Dosage Modification for Patients With Renal Impairment In patients with impaired renal function (creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min), initiate oxcarbazepine oral suspension at one-half the usual starting dose (300 mg/day, given twice a day), and increase slowly to achieve the desired clinical response [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.8 Administration Information Oxcarbazepine oral suspension can be taken with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Oxcarbazepine oral suspension and oxcarbazepine film-coated tablets may be interchanged at equal doses. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults: Initiate with a dose of 600 mg/day, given twice a day • Adjunctive Therapy: Maximum increment of 600 mg/day at approximately weekly intervals. The recommended daily dose is 1200 mg/day ( 2.1 ) • Conversion to Monotherapy: Withdrawal concomitant over 3 to 6 weeks; reach maximum dose of oxcarbazepine tablets in 2 to 4 weeks with increments of 600 mg/day at weekly intervals to a recommended daily dose of 2400 mg/day ( 2.2 ) • Initiation of Monotherapy: Increments of 300 mg/day every third day to a dose of 1200 mg/day ( 2.3 ) • Initiate at one-half the usual starting dose and increase slowly in patients with a creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min ( 2.7 ) Pediatrics: Initiation with 8 to 10 mg/kg/day, given twice-a-day. In these patients, initiate oxcarbazepine tablets at a dose of 600 mg/day (given twice a day); the dose should be increased by 300 mg/day every third day to a dose of 1200 mg/day. The target maintenance dose of oxcarbazepine tablets should be achieved over 2 weeks, and is dependent upon patient weight, according to the following chart: • 20 to 29 kg - 900 mg/day • 29.1 to 39 kg - 1200 mg/day • 39 kg - 1800 mg/day In the clinical trial, in which the intention was to reach these target doses, the median daily dose was 31 mg/kg with a range of 6 to 51 mg/kg. For patients less than 20 kg, a starting dose of 16 to 20 mg/kg may be considered [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 1: Range of Maintenance Doses of Oxcarbazepine Tablets for Pediatrics by Weight During Monotherapy From To Weight in kg Dose (mg/day) Dose (mg/day) 20 600 900 25 900 1200 30 900 1200 35 900 1500 40 900 1500 45 1200 1500 50 1200 1800 55 1200 1800 60 1200 2100 65 1200 2100 70 1500 2100 2.7 Dosage Modification for Patients With Renal Impairment In patients with impaired renal function (creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min), initiate oxcarbazepine tablets at one-half the usual starting dose (300 mg/day, given twice a day), and increase slowly to achieve the desired clinical response [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2.8 Administration Information Oxcarbazepine tablets can be taken with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . TRILEPTAL oral suspension and oxcarbazepine film-coated tablets may be substituted at equal doses. Oxcarbazepine oral suspension and oxcarbazepine tablets may be substituted at equal doses. 2.1 Adjunctive Therapy for Adults Initiate oxcarbazepine tablets with a dose of 600 mg/day, given twice-a-day. Daily doses above 1200 mg/day show somewhat greater effectiveness in controlled trials, but most patients were not able to tolerate the 2400 mg/day dose, primarily because of CNS effects. Dosage adjustment is recommended with concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 enzyme inducers or UGT inducers, which include certain antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) [see Drug Interactions (7.1, 7.2)]. 2.2 Conversion to Monotherapy for Adults Patients receiving concomitant AEDs may be converted to monotherapy by initiating treatment with oxcarbazepine tablets at 600 mg/day (given in a twice-a-day regimen) while simultaneously initiating the reduction of the dose of the concomitant AEDs. In these patients, initiate oxcarbazepine tablets at a dose of 600 mg/day (given a twice-a-day); the dose should be increased by 300 mg/day every third day to a dose of 1200 mg/day. 2.4 Adjunctive Therapy for Pediatric Patients (Aged 2 to 16 Years) In pediatric patients aged 4 to 16 years, initiate oxcarbazepine tablets at a daily dose of 8 to 10 mg/kg generally not to exceed 600 mg/day, given twice-a-day. The target maintenance dose of oxcarbazepine tablets should be achieved over 2 weeks, and is dependent upon patient weight, according to the following chart: 20 to 29 kg – 900 mg/day 29.1 to 39 kg – 1200 mg/day >39 kg – 1800 mg/day In the clinical trial, in which the intention was to reach these target doses, the median daily dose was 31 mg/kg with a range of 6 to 51 mg/kg. In pediatric patients aged 2 to <4 years, initiate oxcarbazepine tablets at a daily dose of 8 to 10 mg/kg generally not to exceed 600 mg/day, given twice-a-day. For patients less than 20 kg, a starting dose of 16 to 20 mg/kg may be considered [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. The maximum maintenance dose of oxcarbazepine tablets should be achieved over 2 to 4 weeks and should not exceed 60 mg/kg/day in a twice-a-day regimen. In the clinical trial in pediatric patients (2 to 4 years of age) in which the intention was to reach the target dose of 60 mg/kg/day, 50% of patients reached a final dose of at least 55 mg/kg/day. 2.5 Conversion to Monotherapy for Pediatric Patients (Aged 4 to 16 Years) Patients receiving concomitant antiepileptic drugs may be converted to monotherapy by initiating treatment with oxcarbazepine tablets at approximately 8 to 10 mg/kg/day given twice-a-day, while simultaneously initiating the reduction of the dose of the concomitant antiepileptic drugs. The concomitant antiepileptic drugs can be completely withdrawn over 3 to 6 weeks while oxcarbazepine tablets may be increased as clinically indicated by a maximum increment of 10 mg/kg/day at approximately weekly intervals to achieve the recommended daily dose. 2.6 Initiation of Monotherapy for Pediatric Patients (Aged 4 to 16 Years) Patients not currently being treated with antiepileptic drugs may have monotherapy initiated with oxcarbazepine tablets. In these patients, initiate oxcarbazepine tablets at a dose of 8 to 10 mg/kg/day given twice-a-day. Table 1: Range of Maintenance Doses of Oxcarbazepine Tablets for Pediatrics by Weight During Monotherapy From To Weight in kg Dose (mg/day) Dose (mg/day) 20 600 900 25 900 1200 30 900 1200 35 900 1500 40 900 1500 45 1200 1500 50 1200 1800 55 1200 1800 60 1200 2100 65 1200 2100 70 1500 2100 2.7 Dosage Modification for Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with impaired renal function (creatinine clearance <30 mL/min) initiate oxcarbazepine tablets at one-half the usual starting dose (300 mg/day, given twice-a-day) and increase slowly to achieve the desired clinical response [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2.8 Administration Information Oxcarbazepine tablets can be taken with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults: initiate with a dose of 600 mg/day, given twice-a-day • Adjunctive Therapy: Maximum increment of 600 mg/day at approximately weekly intervals. The recommended daily dose is 1200 mg/day ( 2.1 ) • Conversion to Monotherapy: withdrawal concomitant over 3 to 6 weeks; reach maximum dose of oxcarbazepine tablets in 2 to 4 weeks with increments of 600 mg/day at weekly intervals to a recommended daily dose of 2400 mg/day ( 2.2 ) • Initiation of Monotherapy: Increments of 300 mg/day every third day to a dose of 1200 mg/day ( 2.3 ) • Initiate at one-half the usual starting dose and increase slowly in patients with a creatinine clearance <30 mL/min, ( 2.7 ) Pediatrics: initiation with 8 to 10 mg/kg/day, given twice-a-day. For patients aged 2 to <4 years, maximum maintenance dose should be achieved over 2 to 4 weeks and should not to exceed 60 mg/kg/day ( 2.4 ) • Conversion to Monotherapy for Patients (Aged 4 to 16 Years) Maximum increment of 10 mg/kg/day at weekly intervals, concomitant antiepileptic drugs can be completely withdrawn over 3 to 6 weeks ( 2.5 ) • Initiation of Monotherapy for Patients (Aged 4 to 16 Years) Increments of 5 mg/kg/day every third day ( 2.6 ) 2.1 Adjunctive Therapy for Adults Initiate oxcarbazepine tablets with a dose of 600 mg/day, given twice-a-day. Dosage adjustment is recommended with concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 enzyme inducers or UGT inducers, which include certain antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 , 7.2 ) ]. The target maintenance dose of oxcarbazepine tablets should be achieved over 2 weeks, and is dependent upon patient weight, according to the following chart: 20 to 29 kg - 900 mg/day 29.1 to 39 kg - 1200 mg/day >39 kg - 1800 mg/day In the clinical trial, in which the intention was to reach these target doses, the median daily dose was 31 mg/kg with a range of 6 to 51 mg/kg. Dosage adjustment is recommended with concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 enzyme inducers or UGT inducers, which include certain antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 , 7.2 )]. Table 1: Range of Maintenance Doses of Oxcarbazepine Tablets for Pediatrics by Weight During Monotherapy Weight in kg From To Dose (mg/day) Dose (mg/day) 20 600 900 25 900 1200 30 900 1200 35 900 1500 40 900 1500 45 1200 1500 50 1200 1800 55 1200 1800 60 1200 2100 65 1200 2100 70 1500 2100 2.7 Dosage Modification for Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with impaired renal function (creatinine clearance <30 mL/min) initiate oxcarbazepine tablets at one-half the usual starting dose (300 mg/day, given twice-a-day) and increase slowly to achieve the desired clinical response [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults: initiate with a dose of 600 mg/day, given twice-a-day Adjunctive Therapy: Maximum increment of 600 mg/day at approximately weekly intervals. The recommended daily dose is 1200 mg/day ( 2.1 ) Conversion to Monotherapy: withdrawal concomitant over 3 to 6 weeks; reach maximum dose of oxcarbazepine tablets in 2 to 4 weeks with increments of 600 mg/day at weekly intervals to a recommended daily dose of 2400 mg/day ( 2.2 ) Initiation of Monotherapy: Increments of 300 mg/day every third day to a dose of 1200 mg/day ( 2.3 ) Initiate at one-half the usual starting dose and increase slowly in patients with a creatinine clearance <30 mL/min ( 2.7 ) Pediatrics: initiation with 8 to 10 mg/kg/day, given twice-a-day. For patients aged 2 to <4 years, maximum maintenance dose should be achieved over 2 to 4 weeks and should not to exceed 60 mg/kg/day ( 2.4 ) Conversion to Monotherapy for Patients (Aged 4–16 Years): Maximum increment of 10 mg/kg/day at weekly intervals, concomitant antiepileptic drugs can be completely withdrawn over 3 to 6 weeks ( 2.5 ) Initiation of Monotherapy for Patients (Aged 4–16 Years): Increments of 5 mg/kg/day every third day ( 2.6 ) 2.1 Adjunctive Therapy for Adults Initiate oxcarbazepine tablets with a dose of 600 mg/day, given twice-a-day. Dosage adjustment is recommended with concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 enzyme inducers or UGT inducers, which include certain antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) [ see Drug Interactions (7.1 , 7.2 ) ]. 2.4 Adjunctive Therapy for Pediatric Patients (Aged 2–16 Years) In pediatric patients aged 4–16 years, initiate oxcarbazepine tablets at a daily dose of 8 to 10 mg/kg generally not to exceed 600 mg/day, given twice-a-day. For patients less than 20 kg, a starting dose of 16 to 20 mg/kg may be considered [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Dosage adjustment is recommended with concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 enzyme inducers or UGT inducers, which include certain antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) [see Drug Interactions (7.1 , 7.2) ]. 2.5 Conversion to Monotherapy for Pediatric Patients (Aged 4–16 Years) Patients receiving concomitant antiepileptic drugs may be converted to monotherapy by initiating treatment with oxcarbazepine tablets at approximately 8 to 10 mg/kg/day given twice-a-day, while simultaneously initiating the reduction of the dose of the concomitant antiepileptic drugs. The concomitant antiepileptic drugs can be completely withdrawn over 3 to 6 weeks, while oxcarbazepine tablets may be increased as clinically indicated by a maximum increment of 10 mg/kg/day at approximately weekly intervals to achieve the recommended daily dose. 2.6 Initiation of Monotherapy for Pediatric Patients (Aged 4–16 Years) Patients not currently being treated with antiepileptic drugs may have monotherapy initiated with oxcarbazepine tablets. Table 1: Range of Maintenance Doses of Oxcarbazepine Tablets for Pediatrics by Weight During Monotherapy From To Weight in kg Dose (mg/day) Dose (mg/day) 20 600 900 25 900 1200 30 900 1200 35 900 1500 40 900 1500 45 1200 1500 50 1200 1800 55 1200 1800 60 1200 2100 65 1200 2100 70 1500 2100 2.7 Dosage Modification for Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with impaired renal function (creatinine clearance <30 mL/min) initiate oxcarbazepine tablets at one-half the usual starting dose (300 mg/day, given twice-a-day) and increase slowly to achieve the desired clinical response [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.8 Administration Information Oxcarbazepine tablets can be taken with or without food [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ].
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxcarbazepine tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to oxcarbazepine or to any of its components, or to eslicarbazepine acetate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.3 ) ]. Known hypersensitivity to oxcarbazepine or to any of its components, or to eslicarbazepine acetate ( 4 , 5.2 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxcarbazepine tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to oxcarbazepine or to any of its components, or to eslicarbazepine acetate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxcarbazepine oral suspension is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to oxcarbazepine or to any of its components, or to eslicarbazepine acetate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3) ] . Known hypersensitivity to oxcarbazepine or to any of its components, or to eslicarbazepine acetate. ( 4 , 5.2 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxcarbazepine oral suspension is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to oxcarbazepine or to any of its components, or to eslicarbazepine acetate [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.3 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxcarbazepine tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to oxcarbazepine or to any of its components, or to eslicarbazepine acetate [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.3 )]. Oxcarbazepine tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to oxcarbazepine or to any of its components, or to eslicarbazepine acetate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3)]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxcarbazepine tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to oxcarbazepine or to any of its components, or to eslicarbazepine acetate [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3) ].
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Phenytoin: Increased phenytoin levels. Reduced dose of phenytoin may be required ( 7.1 ) • Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, and Phenobarbital: Decreased plasma levels of MHD (the active metabolite). Dose adjustments may be necessary ( 7.1 ) • Oral Contraceptive: Oxcarbazepine may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Effect of Oxcarbazepine on Other Drugs Phenytoin levels have been shown to increase with concomitant use of oxcarbazepine at doses greater than 1200 mg/day [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Therefore, it is recommended that the plasma levels of phenytoin be monitored during the period of oxcarbazepine titration and dosage modification. A decrease in the dose of phenytoin may be required. 7.2 Effect of Other Drugs on Oxcarbazepine Strong inducers of cytochrome P450 enzymes and/or inducers of UGT (e.g., rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin and phenobarbital) have been shown to decrease the plasma/serum levels of MHD, the active metabolite of oxcarbazepine (25% to 49%) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. If oxcarbazepine and strong CYP3A4 inducers, or UGT inducers are administered concurrently, it is recommended that the plasma levels of MHD be monitored during the period of oxcarbazepine titration. Dose adjustment of oxcarbazepine may be required after initiation, dosage modification, or discontinuation of such inducers. 7.3 Hormonal Contraceptives Concurrent use of oxcarbazepine with hormonal contraceptives may render these contraceptives less effective [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Studies with other oral or implant contraceptives have not been conducted. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Phenytoin: Increased phenytoin levels. Reduced dose of phenytoin may be required ( 7.1 ) Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, and Phenobarbital: Decreased plasma levels of MHD (the active metabolite). Dose adjustments may be necessary ( 7.1 ) Oral Contraceptive: oxcarbazepine tablets may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Effect of Oxcarbazepine Tablets on Other Drugs Phenytoin levels have been shown to increase with concomitant use of oxcarbazepine tablets at doses greater than 1200 mg/day [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Therefore, it is recommended that the plasma levels of phenytoin be monitored during the period of oxcarbazepine tablets titration and dosage modification. A decrease in the dose of phenytoin may be required . 7.2 Effect of Other Drugs on Oxcarbazepine Tablets Strong inducers of cytochrome P450 enzymes and/or inducers of UGT (e.g., rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin and phenobarbital) have been shown to decrease the plasma/serum levels of MHD, the active metabolite of oxcarbazepine tablets (25% to 49%) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. If oxcarbazepine tablets and strong CYP3A4 inducers, or UGT inducers are administered concurrently, it is recommended that the plasma levels of MHD be monitored during the period of oxcarbazepine tablets titration. Dose adjustment of oxcarbazepine tablets may be required after initiation, dosage modification, or discontinuation of such inducers. 7.3 Hormonal Contraceptives Concurrent use of oxcarbazepine tablets with hormonal contraceptives may render these contraceptives less effective [see Use in Specific Populations (8.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Reduced dose of phenytoin may be required. (7.1) Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, and Phenobarbital: Decreased plasma levels of MHD (the active metabolite). Dose adjustments may be necessary. (7.1) Oral Contraceptive: Oxcarbazepine may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives. (7.3) 7.1 Effect of Oxcarbazepine on Other Drugs Phenytoin levels have been shown to increase with concomitant use of oxcarbazepine at doses greater than 1,200 mg/day [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.2 Effect of Other Drugs on Oxcarbazepine Strong inducers of cytochrome P450 enzymes and/or inducers of UGT (e.g., rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin and phenobarbital) have been shown to decrease the plasma/serum levels of MHD, the active metabolite of oxcarbazepine (25% to 49%) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.3 Hormonal Contraceptives Concurrent use of oxcarbazepine with hormonal contraceptives may render these contraceptives less effective [see Use in Specific Populations (8.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Dose adjustments may be necessary ( 7.1 ) • Oral Contraceptive: Oxcarbazepine may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Effect of Oxcarbazepine on Other Drugs Phenytoin levels have been shown to increase with concomitant use of oxcarbazepine at doses greater than 1200 mg/day [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.2 Effect of Other Drugs on Oxcarbazepine Strong inducers of cytochrome P450 enzymes and/or inducers of UGT (e.g., rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin and phenobarbital) have been shown to decrease the plasma/serum levels of MHD, the active metabolite of oxcarbazepine (25% to 49%) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.3 Hormonal Contraceptives Concurrent use of oxcarbazepine with hormonal contraceptives may render these contraceptives less effective [see Use in Specific Populations (8.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Dose adjustments may be necessary ( 7.1 ) • Oral Contraceptive: oxcarbazepine may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Effect of Oxcarbazepine on Other Drugs Phenytoin levels have been shown to increase with concomitant use of oxcarbazepine at doses greater than 1200 mg/day [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.1 Effect of Oxcarbazepine on Other Drugs Phenytoin levels have been shown to increase with concomitant use of oxcarbazepine at doses greater than 1200 mg/day [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.2 Effect of Other Drugs on Oxcarbazepine Strong inducers of cytochrome P450 enzymes and/or inducers of UGT (e.g., rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin and phenobarbital) have been shown to decrease the plasma/serum levels of MHD, the active metabolite of oxcarbazepine (25% to 49%) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. If oxcarbazepine and strong CYP3A4 inducers or UGT inducers are administered concurrently, it is recommended that the plasma levels of MHD be monitored during the period of oxcarbazepine titration. 7.3 Hormonal Contraceptives Concurrent use of oxcarbazepine with hormonal contraceptives may render these contraceptives less effective [see Use in Specific Populations (8.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Reduced dose of phenytoin may be required ( 7.1 ) • Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital: Decreased plasma levels of MHD (the active metabolite). Dose adjustments may be necessary ( 7.1 ) • Oral Contraceptive: Oxcarbazepine may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effect of Oxcarbazepine on Other Drugs Phenytoin levels have been shown to increase with concomitant use of oxcarbazepine at doses greater than 1200 mg/day [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Reduced dose of phenytoin may be required ( 7.1 ) Carbamazepine, Phenytoin, Phenobarbital: Decreased plasma levels of MHD (the active metabolite). If oxcarbazepine tablets and strong CYP3A4 inducers or UGT inducers are administered concurrently, it is recommended that the plasma levels of MHD be monitored during the period of oxcarbazepine tablets titration.

=== PROGESTERONE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: PURPOSE: Arsenicum Album – Retention of Urine and Prostate Support,† Asterias Rubens – Prostate Support,† Calcarea Fluorica – Weak Urine Stream, Antioxidant, and Prostate Support,† Conium Maculatum – Urine Stream Starts and Stops, and Prostate Support,† Estradiol – Estrogen Balance and Prostate Support,† Euphorbium Officinarum – Antioxidant and Prostate Support,† Phytolacca Decandra – Prostate Support,† Progesterone – Progesterone Balance and Prostate Support,† Sabal Serrulata – Painful Urination,† Taraxacum Officinale – Frequent Urge to Urinate,† Thuja Occidentalis – Slowed Start of Urination,† Triticum Repens – Frequent and Difficult Urination† †Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. Not FDA evaluated. PURPOSE: Aconiticum Acidum, Cis- Female Support, Apis Venenum Purum – Female Support, Aquilegia Vulgaris – Female Support, Bovista - Fatigue, Cypripedium Pubescens - Fatigue, Estradiol – Low Sex Drive, Faecalis (Alkaligenes) – Female Support, Folliculinum - Fatigue, Funiculus Umbilicalis Suis – Low Sex Drive, Glandula Suprarenalis Suis - Fatigue, Heart (Suis) – Female Support, Hydrastis Canadensis – Low Sex Drive, Hypophysis Suis – Female Support, Kreosotum - Fatigue, Lachesis Mutus – Low Sex Drive, Lilium Tigrinum – Female Support, Magnesia Phosphorica - Fatigue, Mercurius Solubilis – Low Sex Drive, Mutabile Bacillus (Bach) – Female Support, Oophorinum (Suis) – Low Sex Drive, Petroselinum Sativum – Female Support, Pineal Gland (Suis) – Low Sex Drive, Placenta Totalis Suis - Fatigue, Progesterone – Female Support, Sepia - Fatigue, Testosterone – Low Sex Drive, Uterus (Suis) – Female Support PURPOSE: Progesterone - hormonal support** **Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. HOMEOPATHIC INDICATIONS: Temporary relief of symptoms related to hormone imbalances of insufficiencies in men and women, including low energy, inability to handle stress, trouble focusing, changes in mood, infertility, irregular menstrual cycles (females), and lack of libido.** **These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. They have not been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration.
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Progesterone capsules are indicated for use in the prevention of endometrial hyperplasia in nonhysterectomized postmenopausal women who are receiving conjugated estrogens tablets. They are also indicated for use in secondary amenorrhea. USES: Provides potentized homeo-nutritional support of the prostate.† †Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. Not FDA evaluated. USES: • For the temporary relief of symptoms including: • female support • fatigue • low sex drive These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. They have not been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration. USES: For temporary relief of aching legs, backache, mood swings, painful menses, painful breasts, headaches, hot flashes, and nervousness.** **Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. HOMEOPATHIC INDICATIONS: Temporary relief of symptoms related to hormone imbalances of insufficiencies in men and women, including low energy, inability to handle stress, trouble focusing, changes in mood, infertility, irregular menstrual cycles (females), and lack of libido.** **These statements are based upon homeopathic principles.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Prevention of Endometrial Hyperplasia Progesterone capsules should be given as a single daily dose at bedtime, 200 mg orally for 12 days sequentially per 28-day cycle, to postmenopausal women with a uterus who are receiving daily conjugated estrogens tablets. Treatment of Secondary Amenorrhea Progesterone capsules may be given as a single daily dose of 400 mg at bedtime for 10 days. Some women may experience difficulty swallowing progesterone capsules. For these women, progesterone capsules should be taken with a glass of water while in the standing position. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Prevention of Endometrial Hyperplasia Progesterone capsules should be given as a single daily dose at bedtime, 200 mg orally for 12 days sequentially per 28-day cycle, to a postmenopausal woman with a uterus who is receiving daily conjugated estrogens tablets. DIRECTIONS: • Adults: 1 to 3 teaspoons one to three times daily. Children under twelve one half adult dosage. Consult a physician for use in children under 12 years of age. DIRECTIONS: 1-10 drops under the tongue, 3 times a day or as directed by a health professional. DIRECTIONS: • 10 drops orally, 3 times a day. • Consult a health care professional for use in children under 12 years of age. DIRECTIONS: 1-10 drops under the tongue, 3 times a day or as directed by your health professional.
Warnings: WARNINGS See BOXED WARNING . 1. Cardiovascular disorders An increased risk of pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis (DVT), stroke, and myocardial infarction has been reported with estrogen plus progestin therapy. Should any of these occur or be suspected, estrogen with progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. Risk factors for arterial vascular disease (for example, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, tobacco use, hypercholesterolemia, and obesity) and/or venous thromboembolism (for example, personal history or family history of venous thromboembolism [VTE], obesity, and systemic lupus erythematosus) should be managed appropriately. a. Stroke In the Women’s Health Initiative (WHI) estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant increased risk of stroke was reported in women 50 to 79 years of age receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women in the same age group receiving placebo (33 versus 25 per 10,000 women-years). The increase in risk was demonstrated after the first year and persisted. (See CLINICAL STUDIES .) Should a stroke occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. b. Coronary Heart Disease In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, there was a statistically non-significant increased risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) events (defined as nonfatal myocardial infarction [MI], silent MI, or CHD death) reported in women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (41 versus 34 per 10,000 women-years). An increase in relative risk was demonstrated in year 1 and a trend toward decreasing relative risk was reported in years 2 through 5. (See CLINICAL STUDIES .) In postmenopausal women with documented heart disease (n = 2,763, average age 66.7 years), in a controlled clinical trial of secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease (Heart and Estrogen/Progestin Replacement Study [HERS]), treatment with daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) demonstrated no cardiovascular benefit. During an average follow-up of 4.1 years, treatment with CE plus MPA did not reduce the overall rate of CHD events in postmenopausal women with established coronary heart disease. There were more CHD events in the CE plus MPA-treated group than in the placebo group in year 1, but not during the subsequent years. Two thousand three hundred and twenty one (2,321) women from the original HERS trial agreed to participate in an open-label extension of HERS, HERS II. Average follow-up in HERS II was an additional 2.7 years, for a total of 6.8 years overall. Rates of CHD events were comparable among women in the CE plus MPA group and the placebo group in HERS, HERS II, and overall. c. Venous thromboembolism In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant 2-fold greater rate of VTE (DVT and pulmonary embolism [PE]) was reported in women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (35 versus 17 per 10,000 women-years) and PE. Statistically significant increases in risk for both DVT (26 versus 13 per 10,000 women-years) and PE (18 versus 8 per 10,000 women-years) were also demonstrated. The increase in VTE risk was observed during the first year and persisted. (See CLINICAL STUDIES .) Should a VTE occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. If feasible, estrogens with progestins should be discontinued at least 4 to 6 weeks before surgery of the type associated with an increased risk of thromboembolism, or during periods of prolonged immobilization. 2. Malignant neoplasms a. Breast cancer The most important randomized clinical trial providing information about breast cancer in estrogen plus progestin users is the Women’s Health Initiative (WHI) substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg). After a mean follow-up of 5.6 years, the estrogen plus progestin substudy reported an increased risk of breast cancer in women who took daily CE plus MPA. In this substudy, prior use of estrogen alone or estrogen plus progestin therapy was reported by 26 percent of the women. The relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.24 (95 percent nCI 1.01-1.54), and the absolute risk was 41 versus 33 cases per 10,000 women-years, for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. Among women who reported prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.86, and the absolute risk was 46 versus 25 cases per 10,000 women-years, for estrogen plus progestin compared with placebo. Among women who reported no prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.09, and the absolute risk was 40 versus 36 cases per 10,000 women-years for estrogen plus progestin compared with placebo. In the same substudy, invasive breast cancers were larger, were more likely to be node positive, and were diagnosed at a more advanced stage in the CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) group compared with the placebo group. Metastatic disease was rare, with no apparent difference between the two groups. Other prognostic factors such as histologic subtype, grade and hormone receptor status did not differ between the groups. (See CLINICAL STUDIES .) Consistent with the WHI clinical trials, observational studies have also reported an increased risk of breast cancer for estrogen plus progestin therapy, and a smaller increased risk for estrogen-alone therapy, after several years of use. The risk increased with duration of use, and appeared to return to baseline over about 5 years after stopping treatment (only the observational studies have substantial data on risk after stopping). Observational studies also suggest that the risk of breast cancer was greater, and became apparent earlier, with estrogen plus progestin therapy as compared to estrogen-alone therapy. However, these studies have not generally found significant variation in the risk of breast cancer among different estrogen plus progestin combinations, doses, or routes of administration. The use of estrogen plus progestin has been reported to result in an increase in abnormal mammograms requiring further evaluation. All women should receive yearly breast examinations by a healthcare provider and perform monthly breast self-examinations. In addition, mammography examinations should be scheduled based on patient age, risk factors, and prior mammogram results. Endometrial Cancer An increased risk of endometrial cancer has been reported with the use of unopposed estrogen therapy in a woman with a uterus. The reported endometrial cancer risk among unopposed estrogen users is about 2 to 12 times greater than in nonusers, and appears dependent on duration of treatment and on estrogen dose. Most studies show no significant increased risk associated with the use of estrogens for less than 1 year. The greatest risk appears associated with prolonged use, with increased risks of 15- to 24-fold for 5 to 10 years or more and this risk has been shown to persist for at least 8 to 15 years after estrogen therapy is discontinued. Clinical surveillance of all women using estrogen plus progestin therapy is important. Adequate diagnostic measures, including directed or random endometrial sampling when indicated, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in all cases of undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding. There is no evidence that the use of natural estrogens results in a different endometrial risk profile than synthetic estrogens of equivalent estrogen dose. Adding a progestin to estrogen therapy in postmenopausal women has been shown to reduce the risk of endometrial hyperplasia, which may be a precursor to endometrial cancer. Ovarian Cancer The WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy reported a statistically non-significant increased risk of ovarian cancer. After an average follow-up of 5.6 years, the relative risk for ovarian cancer for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 1.58 (95 percent nCI 0.77-3.24). The absolute risk for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 4 versus 3 cases per 10,000 women-years. In some epidemiologic studies, the use of estrogen-only products, in particular for 5 or more years, has been associated with an increased risk of ovarian cancer. However, the duration of exposure associated with increased risk is not consistent across all epidemiologic studies and some report no association. 3. Probable Dementia In the estrogen plus progestin Women’s Health Initiative Memory Study (WHIMS), an ancillary study of WHI, a population of 4,532 postmenopausal women 65 to 79 years of age was randomized to daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) or placebo. In the WHIMS estrogen plus progestin ancillary study, after an average follow-up of 4 years, 40 women in the CE plus MPA group and 21 women in the placebo group were diagnosed with probable dementia. The relative risk of probable dementia for estrogen plus progestin versus placebo was 2.05 (95 percent CI 1.21– 3.48). The absolute risk of probable dementia for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 45 versus 22 cases per 10,000 women-years. It is unknown whether these findings apply to younger postmenopausal women. (See CLINICAL STUDIES and PRECAUTIONS, Geriatric Use .) 4. Vision abnormalities Retinal vascular thrombosis has been reported in patients receiving estrogen. Discontinue estrogen plus progestin therapy pending examination if there is sudden partial or complete loss of vision, or if there is a sudden onset of proptosis, diplopia or migraine. If examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be permanently discontinued. WARNINGS 1. Cardiovascular disorders Progesterone capsules are contraindicated in females with active DVT, PE, arterial thromboembolic disease (e.g., stroke, MI) disease, or a history of these conditions (See CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Immediately discontinue progesterone capsules if a PE, DVT, stroke, or MI occurs or is suspected. If feasible, discontinue progesterone capsules at least 4 to 6 weeks before surgery of the type associated with an increased risk of thromboembolism, or during periods of prolonged immobilization. The safety and efficacy of estrogen plus progestogen for the prevention of cardiovascular disorders has not been established. (See CLINICAL STUDIES ) The Women’s Health Initiative (WHI) estrogen plus progestin trial reported increased risks of PE, DVT, stroke, and MI in postmenopausal women (50 to 79 years of age, average age 63.4 years) during 5.6 years of treatment with daily oral conjugated estrogens (CE) [0.625 mg] combined with medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) [2.5 mg], relative to placebo. Analyses were also conducted in women aged 50-59 years, a group of women more likely to present with new onset of moderate to severe VMS compared to women in other age groups in the trial. (See CLINICAL STUDIES. ) Only daily oral 0.625 mg CE and 2.5 mg MPA were studied in the estrogen plus progestin trial of the WHI. Therefore, the relevance of the WHI findings regarding adverse cardiovascular events to lower CE plus other MPA doses, other routes of administration, or other estrogen plus progestogen products is not known. Without such data, it is not possible to definitively exclude these risks or determine the extent of these risks for other products. Venous Thromboembolism In women aged 50 to 59 years, the WHI estrogen plus progestin trial reported a relative risk for PE of 2.05 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.89, 4.71) for CE/MPA compared to placebo, with a risk difference of 6 per 10,000 women- years (WYs; 11 versus 5). The relative risk for DVT was 3.01 (95% CI, 1.36, 6.66) in those receiving CE/MPA compared to placebo, with a risk difference of 10 per 10,000 WYs (15 versus 5). (See CLINICAL STUDIES ). In the overall study population of women aged 50 to 79 years (average 63.4 years), the trial reported a relative risk for PE of 1.98 (95% CI, 1.36, 2.87) for CE/MPA compared to placebo, with a risk difference of 9 per 10,000 WYs (18 versus 9). The relative risk for DVT was 1.87 (95% CI, 1.37, 2.54) for CE/MPA compared to placebo, with a risk difference of 12 per 10,000 WYs (25 versus 14). Stroke In women aged 50 to 59 years, the WHI estrogen plus progestin trial reported a relative risk for stroke of 1.51 (95% CI, 0.81, 2.82) for CE/MPA compared to placebo, with a risk difference of 5 per 10,000 WYs (15 versus 10). In the overall study population of women aged 50 to 79 years (average 63.4 years), the WHI estrogen plus progestin trial reported relative risk for stroke of 1.37 (95% CI, 1.07, 1.76) for CE/MPA compared to placebo, with a risk difference of 9 per 10,000 WYs (33 versus 24). Coronary Heart Disease In women 50 to 59 years of age, the WHI estrogen plus progestin trial reported a relative risk for coronary heart disease (CHD) events (defined as nonfatal MI, silent MI, or CHD death) of 1.34 (95% CI, 0.82, 2.19) for CE/MPA compared placebo, with a risk difference of 5 per 10,000 WYs (23 versus 17). In the overall study population of women aged 50 to 79 years (average 63.4 years), the trial reported a relative risk of CHD of 1.18 (95% CI, 0.95, 1.45) for CE/MPA compared to placebo, with a risk difference of 6 per 10,000 WYs (41 versus 35). In the Heart and Estrogen/Progestin Replacement Study (HERS) and open label extension (HERS II), postmenopausal women with documented heart disease (n = 2,763, average age 66.7 years) received daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA or placebo. In Year 1, there were more CHD events in the CE plus MPA-treated group than placebo; however, rates of CHD events were comparable among both groups for the remainder of the duration of the studies (average total follow-up of 6.8 years). Breast Cancer Progesterone capsules are contraindicated in women with breast cancer, a history of breast cancer, or estrogen-dependent neoplasia. (See CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Discontinue progesterone capsules if a hormone-sensitive malignancy is diagnosed. The use of estrogen plus progestin therapy has been reported to result in an increase in abnormal mammograms requiring further evaluation. Only daily oral CE 0.625 mg and MPA 2.5 mg were studied in the estrogen-alone trial of the WHI. Therefore, the relevance of the WHI findings regarding breast cancer to lower CE plus other MPA doses, other routes of administration, or other estrogen plus progestogen products is not known. In women 50-59 years of age, the WHI estrogen plus progestin trial reported a relative risk for invasive breast cancer of 1.21 (95% CI, 0.81, 1.80) for CE/MPA compared to placebo, with a risk difference of 6 per 10,000 WYs (33 versus 27). In this age group, among those who reported no prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk was 1.06 (95% CI, 0.67, 1.67) for CE/MPA compared to placebo, with a risk difference of 2 per 10,000 WYs (33 versus 31). In the overall study population of women aged 50-79 years (average 63.4 years), the WHI estrogen plus progestin trial reported a relative risk for invasive breast cancer of 1.24 (95% CI, 1.01, 1.53) for CE/MPA compared to placebo, with a risk difference of 9 per 10,000 WYs (43 versus 35). In the overall study population, among women who reported prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.85, (95% CI 1.18, 2.90) for CE/MPA compared to placebo, with a risk difference of 21 per 10,000 WYs (46 versus 25). Among women who reported no prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.09, (95% CI 0.86, 1.39), with a risk difference of 4 per 10,000 WYs (40 versus 36). Invasive breast cancers were larger, were more likely to be node positive, and were diagnosed at a more advanced stage in the CE/MPA group compared with the placebo group. (See CLINICAL STUDIES .) Extension of the WHI trial also demonstrated increased breast cancer risk associated with estrogen plus progestin therapy. Consistent with the WHI trial, observational studies have also reported an increased risk of breast cancer with estrogen plus progestin therapy. A large meta-analysis including 24 prospective studies of postmenopausal women comparing current use of estrogen plus progestin products with use duration of 5 to 14 years (average of 9 years) versus never use reported a relative risk for breast cancer of 2.08 (95% CI, 2.02 to 2.15). These studies have not generally found significant variation in the risk of breast cancer among different estrogen plus progestin combinations, doses, or routes of administration. Regarding breast cancer mortality, the WHI estrogen plus progestin trial did not show a statistically significant difference between CE/MPA and placebo. The trial reported a relative risk of 1.35 (95% CI, 0.94 to 1.95) for CE/MPA compared to placebo, with a risk difference of 1 per 10,000 WYs (5 versus 4) after a median of 19 years of cumulative follow-up. Ovarian Cancer In the overall WHI study population of women aged 50 to 79 years (average 63.4 years), the estrogen plus progestin trial reported a relative risk for ovarian cancer of 1.41 (95% CI, 0.75 to 2.66) for CE/MPA versus placebo after an average follow-up of 5.6 years. The risk difference was 1 per 10,000 WYs (5 versus 4). Comparing CE/MPA to placebo, women 50 to 59 years of age had a relative risk for ovarian cancer of 0.30 (95% CI 0.06, 1.47) and the risk difference was -3 per 10,000 WYs (1 versus 4). A large meta-analysis including 17 prospective studies of postmenopausal women compared current use of estrogen plus progestin products versus never use and reported a relative risk for ovarian cancer of 1.37 (95% CI, 1.26 to 1.48). The duration of hormone therapy use that was associated with an increased risk of ovarian cancer is unknown. WARNINGS: If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. If condition worsens, seek medical attention. KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Do not use if tamper evident seal is broken or missing. Store in a cool place after opening WARNINGS: If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, contact a physician or Poison Control Center right away. Tamper Evident: Sealed for your protection. Do not use if seal is broken or missing. WARNINGS: If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health care professional before use. Do not use if tamper evident seal is broken or missing. Store in a cool, dry place. Cardiovascular disorders An increased risk of pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis (DVT), stroke and myocardial infarction has been reported with estrogen plus progestin therapy. Risk factors for arterial vascular disease (for example, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, tobacco use, hypercholesterolemia and obesity) and/or venous thromboembolism (for example, personal history or family history of venous thromboembolism [VTE], obesity and systemic lupus erythematosus) should be managed appropriately. The increase in risk was demonstrated after the first year and persisted (see CLINICAL STUDIES ). Should a stroke occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. An increase in relative risk was demonstrated in year 1 and a trend toward decreasing relative risk was reported in years 2 through 5 (see CLINICAL STUDIES ). In postmenopausal women with documented heart disease (n = 2,763, average age 66.7 years), in a controlled clinical trial of secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease (Heart and Estrogen/Progestin Replacement Study [HERS]), treatment with daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) demonstrated no cardiovascular benefit. Two thousand, three hundred and twenty-one (2,321) women from the original HERS trial agreed to participate in an open-label extension of HERS, HERS II. Rates of CHD events were comparable among women in the CE plus MPA group and the placebo group in HERS, HERS II and overall. Venous Thromboembolism In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant 2-fold greater rate of VTE (DVT and pulmonary embolism [PE]) was reported in women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (35 versus 17 per 10,000 women-years). The increase in VTE risk was demonstrated during the first year and persisted (see CLINICAL STUDIES ). Should a VTE occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. Breast Cancer The WHI substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg)- alone provided information about breast cancer in estrogen-alone users. In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, after an average of follow-up of 7.1 years, daily CE-alone was not associated with an increased risk of invasive breast cancer [relative risk (RR) 0.80] compared to placebo (see CLINICAL STUDIES ). In this substudy, prior use of estrogen-alone or estrogen plus progestin therapy was reported by 26 percent of the women. The relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.24, and the absolute risk was 41 versus 33 cases per 10,000 women-years, for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. Among women who reported no prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.09, and the absolute risk was 40 versus 36 cases per 10,000 women-years for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. In the substudy, invasive breast cancers were larger, were more likely to be node positive, and were diagnosed at a more advanced stage in the CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) group compared with the placebo group. Other prognostic factors such as histologic subtype, grade and hormone receptor status did not differ between the groups (see CLINICAL STUDIES ). Consistent with the WHI clinical trials, observational studies have also reported an increased risk of breast cancer for estrogen plus progestin therapy, and a smaller increased risk for estrogen-alone therapy, after several years of use. One large meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies reported increased risks that were dependent upon duration of use and could last up to >10 years after discontinuation of estrogen plus progestin therapy and estrogen-alone therapy. Extension of the WHI trials also demonstrated increased breast cancer risk associated with estrogen plus progestin therapy. In addition, mammography examinations should be scheduled based on patient age, risk factors and prior mammogram results. The reported endometrial cancer risk among unopposed estrogen users is about 2 to 12 times greater than in non-users, and appears dependent on duration of treatment and on estrogen dose. After an average follow-up of 5.6 years, the relative risk for ovarian cancer for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 1.58 (95 percent nCI, 0.77 to 3.24). In some epidemiologic studies, the use of estrogen plus progestin and estrogen-only products, in particular for 5 or more years, has been associated with an increased risk of ovarian cancer. The relative risk of probable dementia for estrogen plus progestin versus placebo was 2.05 (95 percent CI, 1.21 to 3.48). It is unknown whether these findings apply to younger postmenopausal women (see CLINICAL STUDIES and PRECAUTIONS, Geriatric Use ). 4. WARNINGS: Keep out of reach of children. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a healthcare professional before use. Tamper seal: sealed for your protection. Stroke In the Women's Health Initiative (WHI) estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant increased risk of stroke was reported in women 50 to 79 years of age receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women in the same age group receiving placebo (33 versus 25 per 10,000 women-years). The increase in VTE risk was demonstrated during the first year and persisted. Breast Cancer The most important randomized clinical trial providing information about breast cancer in estrogen plus progestin users is the Women's Health Initiative (WHI) substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg). After a mean follow-up of 5.6 years, the estrogen plus progestin substudy reported an increased risk of invasive breast cancer in women who took daily CE plus MPA. The relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.24 (95 percent nCI, 1.01-1.54), and the absolute risk was 41 versus 33 cases per 10,000 women-years, for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. After an average follow-up of 5.6 years, the relative risk for ovarian cancer for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 1.58 (95 percent nCI, 0.77 – 3.24). Probable dementia In the estrogen plus progestin Women's Health Initiative Memory Study (WHIMS), an ancillary study of WHI, a population of 4,532 postmenopausal women 65 to 79 years of age was randomized to daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) or placebo. The relative risk of probable dementia for estrogen plus progestin versus placebo was 2.05 (95 percent CI, 1.21-3.48).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Progesterone capsules should not be used in women with any of the following conditions: Progesterone capsules should not be used in patients with known hypersensitivity to its ingredients. Progesterone capsules contain peanut oil and should never be used by patients allergic to peanuts. Undiagnosed abnormal genital bleeding. Known, suspected, or history of breast cancer. Active deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or history of these conditions. Active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and myocardial infarction), or a history of these conditions. Known liver dysfunction or disease. Known or suspected pregnancy. CONTRAINDICATIONS Progesterone capsules is contraindicated in women with any of the following conditions: Hypersensitivity to its ingredients. Progesterone capsules contain peanut oil and is contraindicated in patients allergic to peanuts. Abnormal genital bleeding of unknown etiology. CONTRAINDICATIONS Progesterone capsules should not be used in women with any of the following conditions: 1. Progesterone capsules should not be used in patients with known hypersensitivity to its ingredients. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7.
Interactions (label): C. Drug–Laboratory Test Interactions The following laboratory results may be altered by the use of estrogen plus progestin therapy: Increased sulfobromophthalein retention and other hepatic function tests. Coagulation tests: increase in prothrombin factors VII, VIII, IX and X. Pregnanediol determination. Thyroid function: increase in PBI, and butanol extractable protein bound iodine and decrease in T3 uptake values.

=== BUMETANIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bumetanide tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of edema associated with congestive heart failure, hepatic and renal disease, including the nephrotic syndrome. Almost equal diuretic response occurs after oral and parenteral administration of bumetanide. Therefore, if impaired gastrointestinal absorption is suspected or oral administration is not practical, bumetanide should be given by the intramuscular or intravenous route. Successful treatment with bumetanide tablets, USP following instances of allergic reactions to furosemide suggests a lack of cross-sensitivity. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bumetanide tablets are indicated for the treatment of edema associated with congestive heart failure, hepatic and renal disease, including the nephrotic syndrome. Successful treatment with bumetanide tablets following instances of allergic reactions to furosemide suggests a lack of cross-sensitivity. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bumetanide Injection is indicated for the treatment of edema associated with congestive heart failure, hepatic and renal disease, including the nephrotic syndrome. Successful treatment with bumetanide following instances of allergic reactions to furosemide suggests a lack of cross-sensitivity. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bumetanide injection, USP is indicated for the treatment of edema associated with congestive heart failure, hepatic and renal disease, including the nephrotic syndrome. Successful treatment with bumetanide injection, USP following instances of allergic reactions to furosemide suggests a lack of cross-sensitivity.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Individualize dosage with careful monitoring of patient response. Oral Administration The usual total daily dosage of bumetanide tablets is 0.5 mg to 2 mg and in most patients is given as a single dose. If the diuretic response to an initial dose of bumetanide tablets is not adequate, in view of its rapid onset and short duration of action, a second or third dose may be given at 4- to 5- hour intervals up to a maximum daily dose of 10 mg. An intermittent dose schedule, whereby bumetanide tablets are given on alternate days or for 3 to 4 days with rest periods of 1 to 2 days in between, is recommended as the safest and most effective method for the continued control of edema. In patients with hepatic failure, keep the dosage to a minimum. Because cross-sensitivity with furosemide has rarely been observed, bumetanide can be substituted at approximately a 1:40 ratio of bumetanide in proportion to furosemide in patients allergic to furosemide. Parenteral Administration Bumetanide injection may be administered parenterally (intravenously and intramuscularly) to patients in whom gastrointestinal absorption may be impaired or in whom oral administration is not practical. Terminate parenteral treatment and institute oral treatment as soon as possible. Oral Administration The usual total daily dosage of bumetanide tablets are 0.5 mg to 2 mg and in most patients are given as a single dose. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be individualized with careful monitoring of patient response. Parenteral Administration Bumetanide Injection may be administered parenterally (IV or IM) to patients in whom gastrointestinal absorption may be impaired or in whom oral administration is not practical. Parenteral treatment should be terminated and oral treatment instituted as soon as possible. The usual initial dose is 0.5 mg to 1 mg intravenously or intramuscularly. Intravenous administration should be given over a period of 1 to 2 minutes. If the response to an initial dose is deemed insufficient, a second or third dose may be given at intervals of 2 to 3 hours, but should not exceed a daily dosage of 10 mg. Miscibility and Parenteral Solutions The compatibility tests of bumetanide injection (0.25 mg/mL, 2 mL vials) with 5% dextrose in water, 0.9% sodium chloride and lactated Ringer’s solution in both glass and plasticized PVC (Viaflex) containers have shown no significant absorption effect with either containers, nor a measurable loss of potency due to degradation of the drug. However, solutions should be freshly prepared and used within 24 hours. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. If the diuretic response to an initial dose of bumetanide tablets is not adequate, in view of its rapid onset and short duration of action, a second or third dose may be given at 4- to 5‑- hour intervals up to a maximum daily dose of 10 mg. If the diuretic response to an initial dose of bumetanide tablets is not adequate, in view of its rapid onset and short duration of action, a second or third dose may be given at 4- to 5-hour intervals up to a maximum daily dose of 10 mg. Miscibility and Parenteral Solutions The compatibility tests of bumetanide injection with 5% dextrose in water, 0.9% sodium chloride and lactated Ringer's solution in both glass and plasticized PVC (Viaflex) containers have shown no significant absorption effect with either containers, nor a measurable loss of potency due to degradation of the drug.
Warnings: WARNINGS Volume and Electrolyte Depletion The dose of bumetanide should be adjusted to the patient’s need. Excessive doses or too frequent administration can lead to profound water loss, electrolyte depletion, dehydration, reduction in blood volume and circulatory collapse with the possibility of vascular thrombosis and embolism, particularly in elderly patients. Hypokalemia Hypokalemia can occur as a consequence of bumetanide administration. Prevention of hypokalemia requires particular attention in the following conditions: patients receiving digitalis and diuretics for congestive heart failure, hepatic cirrhosis and ascites, states of aldosterone excess with normal renal function, potassium-losing nephropathy, certain diarrheal states, or other states where hypokalemia is thought to represent particular added risks to the patient, i.e., history of ventricular arrhythmias. In patients with hepatic cirrhosis and ascites, sudden alterations of electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic encephalopathy and coma. Treatment in such patients is best initiated in the hospital with small doses and careful monitoring of the patient’s clinical status and electrolyte balance. Supplemental potassium and/or spironolactone may prevent hypokalemia and metabolic alkalosis in these patients. Ototoxicity In cats, dogs and guinea pigs, bumetanide has been shown to produce ototoxicity. In these test animals bumetanide was 5 to 6 times more potent than furosemide and, since the diuretic potency of bumetanide is about 40 to 60 times furosemide, it is anticipated that blood levels necessary to produce ototoxicity will rarely be achieved. The potential exists, however, and must be considered a risk of intravenous therapy, especially at high doses, repeated frequently in the face of renal excretory function impairment. Potentiation of aminoglycoside ototoxicity has not been tested for bumetanide. Like other members of this class of diuretics, bumetanide probably shares this risk. Allergy to Sulfonamides Patients allergic to sulfonamides may show hypersensitivity to bumetanide. Thrombocytopenia Since there have been rare spontaneous reports of thrombocytopenia from postmarketing experience, patients should be observed regularly for possible occurrence of thrombocytopenia. WARNINGS Volume and Electrolyte Depletion The dose of bumetanide should be adjusted to the patient's need. Treatment in such patients is best initiated in the hospital with small doses and careful monitoring of the patient's clinical status and electrolyte balance. The potential exists, however, and must be considered a risk of intravenous therapy, especially at high doses, repeated frequently in the face of renal excretory function impairment Potentiation of aminoglycoside ototoxicity has not been tested for bumetanide. Thrombocytopenia Since there have been rare spontaneous reports of thrombocytopenia from post marketing experience, patients should be observed regularly for possible occurrence of thrombocytopenia. In these test animals, bumetanide was 5 to 6 times more potent than furosemide and, since the diuretic potency of bumetanide is about 40 to 60 times furosemide, it is anticipated that blood levels necessary to produce ototoxicity will rarely be achieved.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Bumetanide is contraindicated in anuria. Although bumetanide can be used to induce diuresis in renal insufficiency, any marked increase in blood urea nitrogen or creatinine, or the development of oliguria during therapy of patients with progressive renal disease, is an indication for discontinuation of treatment with bumetanide. Bumetanide is also contraindicated in patients in hepatic coma or in states of severe electrolyte depletion until the condition is improved or corrected. Bumetanide is contraindicated in patients hypersensitive to this drug.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Drugs with Ototoxic Potential (see WARNINGS ). Especially in the presence of impaired renal function, the use of parenterally administered bumetanide in patients to whom aminoglycoside antibiotics are also being given should be avoided, except in life- threatening conditions. Drugs with Nephrotoxic Potential There has been no experience with the concurrent use of bumetanide with drugs known to have a nephrotoxic potential. Therefore, the simultaneous administration of these drugs should be avoided. Lithium Lithium should generally not be given with diuretics (such as bumetanide) because they reduce its renal clearance and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Probenecid Pretreatment with probenecid reduces both the natriuresis and hyperreninemia produced by bumetanide. This antagonistic effect of probenecid on bumetanide natriuresis is not due to a direct action on sodium excretion but is probably secondary to its inhibitory effect on renal tubular secretion of bumetanide. Thus, probenecid should not be administered concurrently with bumetanide. Indomethacin Indomethacin blunts the increases in urine volume and sodium excretion seen during bumetanide treatment and inhibits the bumetanide-induced increase in plasma renin activity. Concurrent therapy with bumetanide is thus not recommended. Antihypertensives Bumetanide may potentiate the effect of various antihypertensive drugs, necessitating a reduction in the dosage of these drugs. Digoxin Interaction studies in humans have shown no effect on digoxin blood levels. Anticoagulants Interaction studies in humans have shown bumetanide to have no effect on warfarin metabolism or on plasma prothrombin activity. Drug Interactions Drugs With Ototoxic Potential (see WARNINGS ) Especially in the presence of impaired renal function, the use of parenterally administered bumetanide in patients to whom aminoglycoside antibiotics are also being given should be avoided, except in life-threatening conditions. Drug Interactions Drugs with Ototoxic Potential (see WARNINGS ) . Especially in the presence of impaired renal function, the use of parenterally administered bumetanide in patients to whom aminoglycoside antibiotics are also being given should be avoided, except in life-threatening conditions. Drug Interactions Drugs with Ototoxic Potential ( see WARNINGS ) Especially in the presence of impaired renal function, the use of parenterally administered bumetanide in patients to whom aminoglycoside antibiotics are also being given should be avoided, except in life-threatening conditions. Drug Interactions Drugs with Ototoxic Potential [See Warnings ] Especially in the presence of impaired renal function, the use of parenterally administered bumetanide in patients to whom aminoglycoside antibiotics are also being given should be avoided, except in life-threatening conditions.

=== CEFDINIR ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cefdinir and other antibacterial drugs, cefdinir should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. Cefdinir for oral suspension is indicated for the treatment of patients with mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms in the conditions listed below. Adults and Adolescents Community-Acquired Pneumonia caused by Haemophilus influenzae (including β-lactamase producing strains), Haemophilus parainfluenzae (including β-lactamase producing strains), Streptococcus pneumoniae (penicillin-susceptible strains only), and Moraxella catarrhalis (including β-lactamase producing strains) (see CLINICAL STUDIES ). Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Bronchitis caused by Haemophilus influenzae (including β-lactamase producing strains), Haemophilus parainfluenzae (including β-lactamase producing strains), Streptococcus pneumoniae (penicillin-susceptible strains only), and Moraxella catarrhalis (including β-lactamase producing strains). Acute Maxillary Sinusitis caused by Haemophilus influenzae (including β-lactamase producing strains), Streptococcus pneumoniae (penicillin-susceptible strains only), and Moraxella catarrhalis (including β-lactamase producing strains). NOTE: For information on use in pediatric patients, see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis caused by Streptococcus pyogenes (see CLINICAL STUDIES ). NOTE: Cefdinir is effective in the eradication of S. pyogenes from the oropharynx. Cefdinir has not, however, been studied for the prevention of rheumatic fever following S. pyogenes pharyngitis/tonsillitis. Only intramuscular penicillin has been demonstrated to be effective for the prevention of rheumatic fever. Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus (including β-lactamase producing strains) and Streptococcus pyogenes . Pediatric Patients Acute Bacterial Otitis Media caused by Haemophilus influenzae (including β-lactamase producing strains), Streptococcus pneumoniae (penicillin-susceptible strains only), and Moraxella catarrhalis (including β-lactamase producing strains). INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cefdinir for oral suspension, USP and other antibacterial drugs, cefdinir for oral suspension, USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Cefdinir for oral suspension, USP is indicated for the treatment of patients with mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms in the conditions listed below. NOTE : For information on use in pediatric patients, see Pediatric Use and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . NOTE : Cefdinir is effective in the eradication of S. INDICATIONS & USAGE To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cefdinir capsules and other antibacterial drugs, cefdinir capsules should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Cefdinir capsules are indicated for the treatment of patients with mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms in the conditions listed below. NOTE: For information on use in pediatric patients, see Pediatric Use and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cefdinir capsules and other antibacterial drugs, cefdinir capsules should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Adults and Adolescents: Community-Acquired Pneumonia: Caused by Haemophilus influenzae (including β-lactamase producing strains), Haemophilus parainfluenzae (including β-lactamase producing strains), Streptococcus pneumoniae (penicillinsusceptible strains only), and Moraxella catarrhalis (including β-lactamase producing strains) (see CLINICAL STUDIES ). Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Bronchitis: Caused by Haemophilus influenzae (including β-lactamase producing strains), Haemophilus parainfluenzae (including β-lactamase producing strains), Streptococcus pneumoniae (penicillin-susceptible strains only), and Moraxella catarrhalis (including β-lactamase producing strains). Acute Maxillary Sinusitis: Caused by Haemophilus influenzae (including β-lactamase producing strains), Streptococcus pneumoniae (penicillin-susceptible strains only), and Moraxella catarrhalis (including β-lactamase producing strains). Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis: Caused by Streptococcus pyogenes (see CLINICAL STUDIES ). Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections: Caused by Staphylococcus aureus (including β-lactamase producing strains) and Streptococcus pyogenes . Pediatric Patients: Acute Bacterial Otitis Media: Caused by Haemophilus influenzae (including β-lactamase producing strains), Streptococcus pneumoniae (penicillin-susceptible strains only), and Moraxella catarrhalis (including β-lactamase producing strains). INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cefdinir for oral suspension and other antibacterial drugs, cefdinir for oral suspension should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Adults and Adolescents: Community-Acquired Pneumonia: Caused by Haemophilus influenzae (including β-lactamase producing strains), Haemophilus parainfluenzae (including β-lactamase producing strains), Streptococcus pneumoniae (penicillin-susceptible strains only), and Moraxella catarrhalis (including β-lactamase producing strains) (see CLINICAL STUDIES ). NOTE: For information on use in pediatric patients, see Pediatric Use and DOSAGE ANDADMINISTRATION .
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE for Indicated Pathogens) The recommended dosage and duration of treatment for infections in pediatric patients are described in the following chart; the total daily dose for all infections is 14 mg/kg, up to a maximum dose of 600 mg per day. Once-daily dosing for 10 days is as effective as BID dosing. Once-daily dosing has not been studied in skin infections; therefore, cefdinir for oral suspension should be administered twice daily in this infection. Cefdinir for oral suspension may be administered without regard to meals. Pediatric Patients (Age 6 Months Through 12 Years) Type of Infection Dosage Duration Acute Bacterial Otitis Media 7 mg/kg q12h or 14 mg/kg q24h 5 to 10 days 10 days Acute Maxillary Sinusitis 7 mg/kg q12h or 14 mg/kg q24h 10 days 10 days Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis 7 mg/kg q12h or 14 mg/kg q24h 5 to 10 days 10 days Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections 7 mg/kg q12h 10 days CEFDINIR FOR ORAL SUSPENSION PEDIATRIC DOSAGE CHART a Pediatric patients who weigh ≥ 43 kg should receive the maximum daily dose of 600 mg. Weight 125 mg/5 mL 250 mg/5 mL 9 kg/20 lbs 2.5 mL q12h or 5 mL q24h Use 125 mg/5 mL product 18 kg/40 lbs 5 mL q12h or 10 mL q24h 2.5 mL q12h or 5 mL q24h 27 kg/60 lbs 7.5 mL q12h or 15 mL q24h 3.75 mL q12h or 7.5 mL q24h 36 kg/80 lbs 10 mL q12h or 20 mL q24h 5 mL q12h or 10 mL q24h ≥ 43 kg a /95 lbs 12 mL q12h or 24 mL q24h 6 mL q12h or 12 mL q24h Patients With Renal Insufficiency For adult patients with creatinine clearance <30 mL/min, the dose of cefdinir should be 300 mg given once daily. Creatinine clearance is difficult to measure in outpatients. However, the following formula may be used to estimate creatinine clearance (CL cr ) in adult patients. For estimates to be valid, serum creatinine levels should reflect steady-state levels of renal function. Males: CL cr = (weight) (140 – age) (72) (serum creatinine) Females: CL cr = 0.85 x above value where creatinine clearance is in mL/min, age is in years, weight is in kilograms, and serum creatinine is in mg/dL. 1 The following formula may be used to estimate creatinine clearance in pediatric patients: CL cr = K x body length or height serum creatinine where K=0.55 for pediatric patients older than 1 year 2 and 0.45 for infants (up to 1 year) 3 . In the above equation, creatinine clearance is in mL/min/1.73 m 2 , body length or height is in centimeters, and serum creatinine is in mg/dL. For pediatric patients with a creatinine clearance of <30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 , the dose of cefdinir should be 7 mg/kg (up to 300 mg) given once daily. Patients on Hemodialysis Hemodialysis removes cefdinir from the body. In patients maintained on chronic hemodialysis, the recommended initial dosage regimen is a 300 mg or 7 mg/kg dose every other day. At the conclusion of each hemodialysis session, 300 mg (or 7 mg/kg) should be given. Subsequent doses (300 mg or 7 mg/kg) are then administered every other day. Directions for Mixing Cefdinir for Oral Suspension Final Concentration Final Volume (mL) Amount of Water Directions 125 mg/5 mL 60 100 38 mL 63 mL Tap bottle to loosen powder, then add water in 2 portions. Shake well after each aliquot. 250 mg/5 mL 60 100 38 mL 63 mL Tap bottle to loosen powder, then add water in 2 portions. After mixing, the suspension can be stored at room temperature (25°C/77°F). The container should be kept tightly closed, and the suspension should be shaken well before each administration. The suspension may be used for 10 days, after which any unused portion must be discarded. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (See INDICATIONS AND USAGE for Indicated Pathogens.) Powder for Oral Suspension The recommended dosage and duration of treatment for infections in pediatric patients are described in the following chart; the total daily dose for all infections is 14 mg/kg, up to a maximum dose of 600 mg per day. Once-daily dosing has not been studied in skin infections; therefore, cefdinir for oral suspension USP should be administered twice daily in this infection. Cefdinir for oral suspension USP may be administered without regard to meals. Pediatric Patients (Age 6 Months Through 12 Years) Type of Infection Dosage Duration Acute Bacterial Otitis Media 7 mg/kg q12h 5 to 10 days or 14 mg/kg q24h 10 days Acute Maxillary Sinusitis 7 mg/kg q12h 10 days or 14 mg/kg q24h 10 days Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis 7 mg/kg q12h 5 to 10 days or 14 mg/kg q24h 10 days Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections 7 mg/kg q12h 10 days CEFDINIR FOR ORAL SUSPENSION PEDIATRIC DOSAGE CHART Weight 125 mg/5 mL 250 mg/5 mL 9 kg/20 lbs 2.5 mL q12h or 5 mL q24h Use 125 mg/5 mL product 18 kg/40 lbs 5 mL q12h or 10 mL q24h 2.5 mL q12h or 5 mL q24h 27 kg/60 lbs 7.5 mL q12h or 15 mL q24h 3.75 mL q12h or 7.5mL q24h 36 kg/80 lbs 10 mL q12h or 20 mL q24h 5 mL q12h or 10 mL q24h ≥ 43 kg 1 /95 lbs 12 mL q12h or 24 mL q24h 6 mL q12h or 12 mL q24h 1. Pediatric patients who weigh ≥ 43 kg should receive the maximum daily dose of 600 mg. Patients With Renal Insufficiency For adult patients with creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min, the dose of cefdinir should be 300 mg given once daily. Males: CL cr = (weight) (140 − age) (72) (serum creatinine) Females: CL cr = 0.85 × above value where creatinine clearance is in mL/min, age is in years, weight is in kilograms, and serum creatinine is in mg/dL. 1 The following formula may be used to estimate creatinine clearance in pediatric patients: CL cr = K × body length or height serum creatinine where K = 0.55 for pediatric patients older than 1 year 2 and 0.45 for infants (up to 1 year) 3 . For pediatric patients with a creatinine clearance of < 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 , the dose of cefdinir should be 7 mg/kg (up to 300 mg) given once daily. Directions for Mixing Cefdinir for Oral Suspension, USP Final Concentration Final Volume (mL) Amount of Water Directions 125 mg/5 mL 60 50 mL Tap bottle to loosen powder, then add water in 2 portions. 100 80 mL 250 mg/5 mL 60 49 mL Tap bottle to loosen powder, then add water in 2 portions. 100 80 mL After mixing, the suspension can be stored at room temperature (25°C/77°F). DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE for Indicated Pathogens) The recommended dosage and duration of treatment for infections in adults and adolescents are described in the following chart; the total daily dose for all infections is 600 mg. Once-daily dosing for 10 days is as effective as b.i.d. dosing. Once-daily dosing has not been studied in pneumonia or skin infections; therefore, cefdinir capsules should be administered twice daily in these infections. Cefdinir capsules may be taken without regard to meals. Adults and Adolescents (Age 13 Years and Older) Type of Infection Dosage Duration Community-Acquired Pneumonia 300 mg q12h 10 days Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Bronchitis 300 mg q12h or 600 mg q24h 5 to 10 days 10 days Acute Maxillary Sinusitis 300 mg q12h or 600 mg q24h 10 days 10 days Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis 300 mg q12h or 600 mg q24h 5 to 10 days 10 days Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections 300 mg q12h 10 days Patients with Renal Insufficiency For adult patients with creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min, the dose of cefdinir should be 300 mg given once daily. Males: CL cr = (weight) (140–age) (72) (serum creatinine) Females: CL cr = 0 .8 5 x above value where creatinine clearance is in mL/min, age is in years, weight is in kilograms, and serum creatinine is in mg/dL. 1 The following formula may be used to estimate creatinine clearance in pediatric patients: CL cr = K x body length or height serum creatinine where K=0.55 for pediatric patients older than 1 year 2 and 0.45 for infants (up to 1 year). 3 In the above equation, creatinine clearance is in mL/min/1.73 m 2 , body length or height is in centimeters, and serum creatinine is in mg/dL. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE for Indicated Pathogens) The recommended dosage and duration of treatment for infections in adults and adolescents are described in the following chart; the total daily dose for all infections is 600 mg. Header$Type of Infection Dosage Duration Community-Acquired Pneumonia 300 mg q12h 10 days Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Bronchitis 300 mg q12h 5 to 10 days or Acute Maxillary Sinusitis 600 mg q24h 10 days 300 mg q12h 10 days or Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis 600 mg q24h 10 days 300 mg q12h 5 to 10 days or Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections 600 mg q24h 10 days 300 mg q12h 10 days Patients With Renal Insufficiency: For adult patients with creatinine clearance <30 mL/min, the dose of cefdinir should be 300 mg given once daily. (weight) (140 – age) Males: CL cr = —————————— (72) (serum creatinine) Females: CL cr = 0.85 x above value where creatinine clearance is in mL/min, age is in years, weight is in kilograms, and serum creatinine is in mg/dL 1 . The following formula may be used to estimate creatinine clearance in pediatric patients: body length or height CL cr = K x —————————— serum creatinine where K = 0.55 for pediatric patients older than 1 year 2 and 0.45 for infants (up to 1 year) 3 . Patients on Hemodialysis: Hemodialysis removes cefdinir from the body. Pediatric Patients (Age 6 Months Through 12 Years) Header$Type of Infection Dosage Duration Acute Bacterial Otitis Media 7 mg/kg q12h or 5 to 10 days 14 mg/kg q24h 10 days Acute Maxillary Sinusitis 7 mg/kg q12h or 10 days 14 mg/kg q24h 10 days Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis 7 mg/kg q12h or 5 to 10 days 14 mg/kg q24h 10 days Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections 7 mg/kg q12h 10 days CEFDINIR FOR ORAL SUSPENSION PEDIATRIC DOSAGE CHART a Pediatric patients who weight ≥43 kg should receive the maximum daily dose of 600 mg. Header$Weight 125 mg/5 mL 250 mg/5 mL 9 kg/20 lbs 2.5 mL q12h or 5 mL q24h Use 125 mg/5 mL product 18 kg/40 lbs 5 mL q12h or 10 mL q24h 2.5 mL q12h or 5 mL q24h 27 kg/60 lbs 7.5 mL q12h or 15 mL q24h 3.75 mL q12h or 7.5 mL q24h 36 kg/80 lbs 10 mL q12h or 20 mL q24h 5 mL q12h or 10 mL q24h ≥43 kg a /95 lbs 12 mL q12h or 24 mL q24h 6 mL q12h or 12 mL q24h Patients With Renal Insufficiency: For adult patients with creatinine clearance <30 mL/min, the dose of cefdinir should be 300 mg given once daily. (weight) (140 – age) Males: CL cr = ———————————— (72) (serum creatinine) Females: CL cr = 0.85 x above value where creatinine clearance is in mL/min, age is in years, weight is in kilograms, and serum creatinine is in mg/dL. 4 The following formula may be used to estimate creatinine clearance in pediatric patients: body length or height CL cr = K x ——————————— serum creatinine where K = 0.55 for pediatric patients older than 1 year 5 and 0.45 for infants (up to 1 year) 6 . Directions for Mixing Final Concentration Final Volume(mL) Amount of Water Directions 125 mg/5 mL 60 38 mL Tap bottle to loosen powder, then add water in 2 100 61 mL portions. 250 mg/5 mL 60 38 mL Tap bottle to loosen powder, then add water in 2 100 61 mL portions. After mixing, the suspension can be stored at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (See INDICATIONS AND USAGE for Indicated Pathogens.) Capsules The recommended dosage and duration of treatment for infections in adults and adolescents are described in the following chart; the total daily dose for all infections is 600 mg. Once-daily dosing has not been studied in pneumonia or skin infections; therefore, cefdinir capsules USP should be administered twice daily in these infections. Cefdinir capsules USP may be taken without regard to meals. Adults and Adolescents (Age 13 Years and Older) Type of Infection Dosage Duration Community-Acquired Pneumonia 300 mg q12h 10 days Acute Exacerbations of Chronic Bronchitis 300 mg q12h 5 to 10 days or 600 mg q24h 10 days Acute Maxillary Sinusitis 300 mg q12h 10 days or 600 mg q24h 10 days Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis 300 mg q12h 5 to 10 days or 600 mg q24h 10 days Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections 300 mg q12h 10 days Pediatric Patients Alternate dosage forms of cefdinir (e.g., cefdinir for oral suspension) may be best suited for pediatric dosing. The recommended dosage and duration of treatment for infections in pediatric patients are described in the following chart; the total daily dose for all infections is 14 mg/kg, up to a maximum dose of 600 mg per day. Pediatric Patients (Age 6 Months Through 12 Years) Type of Infection Dosage Duration Acute Bacterial Otitis Media 7 mg/kg q12h 5 to 10 days or 14 mg/kg q24h 10 days Acute Maxillary Sinusitis 7 mg/kg q12h 10 days or 14 mg/kg q24h 10 days Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis 7 mg/kg q12h 5 to 10 days or 14 mg/kg q24h 10 days Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections 7 mg/kg q12h 10 days Pediatric patients who weigh ≥ 43 kg should receive the maximum daily dose of 600 mg. 1 The following formula may be used to estimate creatinine clearance in pediatric patients: CL cr = K × body length or height serum creatinine where K = 0.55 for pediatric patients older than 1 year 2 and 0.45 for infants (up to 1 year). Pediatric Patients (Age 6 Months Through 12 Years) Type of Infection Dosage Duration Acute Bacterial Otitis Media 7 mg/kg q12h or 5 to 10 days 14 mg/kg q24h 10 days Acute Maxillary Sinusitis 7 mg/kg q12h or 10 days 14 mg/kg q24h 10 days Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis 7 mg/kg q12h or 5 to 10 days 14 mg/kg q24h 10 days Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections 7 mg/kg q12h 10 days CEFDINIR FOR ORAL SUSPENSION PEDIATRIC DOSAGE CHART Weight 125 mg / 5 mL 250 mg / 5 mL a Pediatric patients who weight ≥43 kg should receive the maximum daily dose of 600 mg. 9 kg/20 lbs 2.5 mL q12h or 5 mL q24h Use 125 mg/5 mL product 18 kg/40 lbs 5 mL q12h or 10 mL q24h 2.5 mL q12h or 5 mL q24h 27 kg/60 lbs 7.5 mL q12h or 15 mL q24h 3.75 mL q12h or 7.5 mL q24h 36 kg/80 lbs 10 mL q12h or 20 mL q24h 5 mL q12h or 10 mL q24h ≥43 kg a/95 lbs 12 mL q12h or 24 mL q24h 6 mL q12h or 12 mL q24h Patients With Renal Insufficiency: For adult patients with creatinine clearance <30 mL/min, the dose of cefdinir should be 300 mg given once daily.
Warnings: WARNINGS BEFORE THERAPY WITH CEFDINIR IS INSTITUTED, CAREFUL INQUIRY SHOULD BE MADE TO DETERMINE WHETHER THE PATIENT HAS HAD PREVIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO CEFDINIR, OTHER CEPHALOSPORINS, PENICILLINS, OR OTHER DRUGS. IF CEFDINIR IS TO BE GIVEN TO PENICILLIN-SENSITIVE PATIENTS, CAUTION SHOULD BE EXERCISED BECAUSE CROSS-HYPERSENSITIVITY AMONG β-LACTAM ANTIBIOTICS HAS BEEN CLEARLY DOCUMENTED AND MAY OCCUR IN UP TO 10% OF PATIENTS WITH A HISTORY OF PENICILLIN ALLERGY. IF AN ALLERGIC REACTION TO CEFDINIR OCCURS, THE DRUG SHOULD BE DISCONTINUED. SERIOUS ACUTE HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS MAY REQUIRE TREATMENT WITH EPINEPHRINE AND OTHER EMERGENCY MEASURES, INCLUDING OXYGEN, INTRAVENOUS FLUIDS, INTRAVENOUS ANTIHISTAMINES, CORTICOSTEROIDS, PRESSOR AMINES, AND AIRWAY MANAGEMENT, AS CLINICALLY INDICATED. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including cefdinir, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C. difficile. C. difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD. Hypertoxin producing strains of C. difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality, as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial use. Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents. If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibacterial use not directed against C. difficile may need to be discontinued. Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibacterial treatment of C. difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. WARNINGS BEFORE THERAPY WITH CEFDINIR FOR ORAL SUSPENSION IS INSTITUTED, CAREFUL INQUIRY SHOULD BE MADE TO DETERMINE WHETHER THE PATIENT HAS HAD PREVIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO CEFDINIR, OTHER CEPHALOSPORINS, PENICILLINS, OR OTHER DRUGS. difficile .
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Cefdinir is contraindicated in patients with known allergy to the cephalosporin class of antibiotics. CONTRAINDICATIONS Cefdinir for oral suspension is contraindicated in patients with known allergy to the cephalosporin class of antibiotics. CONTRAINDICATIONS Cefdinir capsules are contraindicated in patients with known allergy to the cephalosporin class of antibiotics.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Antacids: ( aluminum- or magnesium-containing ) Concomitant administration of 300 mg cefdinir capsules with 30 mL Maalox ® TC suspension reduces the rate (C max ) and extent (AUC) of absorption by approximately 40%. Time to reach C max is also prolonged by 1 hour. There are no significant effects on cefdinir pharmacokinetics if the antacid is administered 2 hours before or 2 hours after cefdinir. If antacids are required during cefdinir therapy, cefdinir should be taken at least 2 hours before or after the antacid. Probenecid As with other β-lactam antibiotics, probenecid inhibits the renal excretion of cefdinir, resulting in an approximate doubling in AUC, a 54% increase in peak cefdinir plasma levels, and a 50% prolongation in the apparent elimination t ½ . Iron Supplements and Foods Fortified With Iron Concomitant administration of cefdinir with a therapeutic iron supplement containing 60 mg of elemental iron (as FeSO 4 ) or vitamins supplemented with 10 mg of elemental iron reduced extent of absorption by 80% and 31%, respectively. If iron supplements are required during cefdinir therapy, cefdinir should be taken at least 2 hours before or after the supplement. The effect of foods highly fortified with elemental iron (primarily iron-fortified breakfast cereals) on cefdinir absorption has not been studied. Concomitantly administered iron-fortified infant formula (2.2 mg elemental iron/6 oz) has no significant effect on cefdinir pharmacokinetics. Therefore, cefdinir for oral suspension can be administered with iron-fortified infant formula. There have been reports of reddish stools in patients receiving cefdinir. In many cases, patients were also receiving iron-containing products. The reddish color is due to the formation of a nonabsorbable complex between cefdinir or its breakdown products and iron in the gastrointestinal tract. Drug Interactions Antacids (Aluminum- or Magnesium-Containing) Concomitant administration of 300 mg cefdinir capsules with 30 mL Maalox ® TC suspension reduces the rate (C max ) and extent (AUC) of absorption by approximately 40%. If antacids are required during cefdinir for oral suspension therapy, cefdinir for oral suspension should be taken at least 2 hours before or after the antacid. If iron supplements are required during cefdinir for oral suspension therapy, cefdinir for oral suspension should be taken at least 2 hours before or after the supplement. If antacids are required during cefdinir capsule therapy, cefdinir should be taken at least 2 hours before or after the antacid. Probenecid As with other β-lactam antibiotics, probenecid inhibits the renal excretion of cefdinir, resulting in an approximate doubling in AUC, a 54% increase in peak cefdinir plasma levels, and a 50% prolongation in the apparent elimination t 1/2 . Drug Interactions: Antacids (Aluminum- or Magnesium-Containing): Concomitant administration of 300 mg cefdinir capsules with 30 mL Maalox ® TC suspension reduces the rate (C max ) and extent (AUC) of absorption by approximately 40%. If antacids are required during cefdinir capsules therapy, cefdinir capsules should be taken at least 2 hours before or after the antacid. Probenecid: As with other β-lactam antibiotics, probenecid inhibits the renal excretion of cefdinir, resulting in an approximate doubling in AUC, a 54% increase in peak cefdinir plasma levels, and a 50% prolongation in the apparent elimination t 1/2 . Iron Supplements and Foods Fortified With Iron: Concomitant administration of cefdinir with a therapeutic iron supplement containing 60 mg of elemental iron (as FeSO 4 ) or vitamins supplemented with 10 mg of elemental iron reduced extent of absorption by 80% and 31%, respectively.

=== HYDROXYZINE PAMOATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS For symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested. Useful in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses, and in histamine-mediated pruritus. As a sedative when used as premedication and following general anesthesia, hydroxyzine may potentiate meperidine (Demerol ® ) and barbiturates, so their use in pre-anesthetic adjunctive therapy should be modified on an individual basis. Atropine and other belladonna alkaloids are not affected by the drug. Hydroxyzine is not known to interfere with the action of digitalis in any way and it may be used concurrently with this agent. The effectiveness of hydroxyzine as an antianxiety agent for long-term use, that is, more than 4 months, has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies. The physician should reassess periodically the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. As a sedative when used as premedication and following general anesthesia, Hydroxyzine may potentiate meperidine (Demerol ® ) and barbiturates , so their use in pre-anesthetic adjunctive therapy should be modified on an individual basis. INDICATIONS AND USAGE For symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested. As a sedative when used as premedication and following general anesthesia, Hydroxyzine may potentiate meperidine (Demerol®) and barbiturates , so their use in pre-anesthetic adjunctive therapy should be modified on an individual basis.
Dosage: DOSAGE For symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested: in adults, 50 mg to 100 mg q.i.d.; children under 6 years, 50 mg daily in divided doses; and over 6 years, 50 mg to 100 mg daily in divided doses. For use in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses, and in histamine-mediated pruritus: in adults, 25 mg t.i.d. or q.i.d.; children under 6 years, 50 mg daily in divided doses; and over 6 years, 50 mg to 100 mg daily in divided doses. As a sedative when used as a premedication and following general anesthesia: 50 mg to 100 mg in adults, and 0.6 mg/kg in children. When treatment is initiated by the intramuscular route of administration, subsequent doses may be administered orally. As with all medications, the dosage should be adjusted according to the patient’s response to therapy. As with all medications, the dosage should be adjusted according to the patient's response to therapy. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested: in adults, 50 to 100 mg four times a day; children under 6 years, 50 mg daily in divided doses; and over 6 years, 50 to 100 mg daily in divided doses. For use in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses, and in histamine-mediated pruritus: in adults, 25 mg three times a day or four times a day.; children under 6 years, 50 mg daily in divided doses; and over 6 years, 50 to 100 mg daily in divided doses. As a sedative when used as a premedication and following general anesthesia: 50 to 100 mg in adults, and 0.6 mg/kg in children.
Warnings: WARNINGS Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk. Since many drugs are so excreted, hydroxyzine should not be given to nursing mothers. WARNINGS Nursing Mothers: It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydroxyzine, when administered to the pregnant mouse, rat, and rabbit, induced fetal abnormalities in the rat and mouse at doses substantially above the human therapeutic range. Clinical data in human beings are inadequate to establish safety in early pregnancy. Until such data are available, hydroxyzine is contraindicated in early pregnancy. Hydroxyzine is contraindicated in patients with a prolonged QT interval. Hydroxyzine pamoate is contraindicated for patients who have shown a previous hypersensitivity to any component of this medication. Hydroxyzine is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to hydroxyzine products, and in patients with known hypersensitivity to cetirizine hydrochloride or levocetirizine hydrochloride. Hydroxyzine is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to hydroxyzine products, and in patients with known hypersensitivity to cetirizine hydrochloride or levocetrizine hydrochloride.

=== OSELTAMIVIR PHOSPHATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is an influenza neuraminidase inhibitor (NAI) indicated for: Treatment of acute, uncomplicated influenza A and B in patients 2 weeks of age and older who have been symptomatic for no more than 48 hours. ( 1.1 ) Prophylaxis of influenza A and B in patients 1 year and older. ( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use : Not a substitute for annual influenza vaccination. ( 1.3 ) Consider available information on influenza drug susceptibility patterns and treatment effects when deciding whether to use. ( 1.3 ) Not recommended for patients with end-stage renal disease not undergoing dialysis. ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Treatment of Influenza Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is indicated for the treatment of acute, uncomplicated illness due to influenza A and B infection in patients 2 weeks of age and older who have been symptomatic for no more than 48 hours. 1.2 Prophylaxis of Influenza Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is indicated for the prophylaxis of influenza A and B in patients 1 year and older. 1.3 Limitations of Use Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is not a substitute for early influenza vaccination on an annual basis as recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. Influenza viruses change over time. Emergence of resistance substitutions could decrease drug effectiveness. Other factors (for example, changes in viral virulence) might also diminish clinical benefit of antiviral drugs. Prescribers should consider available information on influenza drug susceptibility patterns and treatment effects when deciding whether to use oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension [see Microbiology (12.4) ] . Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is not recommended for patients with end-stage renal disease not undergoing dialysis [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Oseltamivir phosphate is an influenza neuraminidase inhibitor (NAI) indicated for: • Treatment of acute, uncomplicated influenza A and B in patients 2 weeks of age and older who have been symptomatic for no more than 48 hours. (1.1) • Prophylaxis of influenza A and B in patients 1 year and older. (1.2) Limitations of Use: • Not a substitute for annual influenza vaccination. (1.3) • Consider available information on influenza drug susceptibility patterns and treatment effects when deciding whether to use. (1.3) • Not recommended for patients with end-stage renal disease not undergoing dialysis. (1.3) 1.1 Treatment of Influenza Oseltamivir phosphate capsules are indicated for the treatment of acute, uncomplicated illness due to influenza A and B infection in patients 2 weeks of age and older who have been symptomatic for no more than 48 hours. 1.2 Prophylaxis of Influenza Oseltamivir phosphate capsules are indicated for the prophylaxis of influenza A and B in patients 1 year and older. 1.3 Limitations of Use • Oseltamivir phosphate capsules are not a substitute for early influenza vaccination on an annual basis as recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. • Influenza viruses change over time. Prescribers should consider available information on influenza drug susceptibility patterns and treatment effects when deciding whether to use oseltamivir phosphate capsules [ see Microbiology ( 12.4)]. • Oseltamivir phosphate capsules are not recommended for patients with end-stage renal disease not undergoing dialysis [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6)]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oseltamivir phosphate capsules are influenza neuraminidase inhibitor (NAI) indicated for: Treatment of acute, uncomplicated influenza A and B in patients 2 weeks of age and older who have been symptomatic for no more than 48 hours. ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Treatment of Influenza Oseltamivir phosphate capsules are indicated for the treatment of acute, uncomplicated illness due to influenza A and B infection in patients 2 weeks of age and older who have been symptomatic for no more than 48 hours. 1.3 Limitations of Use Oseltamivir phosphate capsules are not a substitute for early influenza vaccination on an annual basis as recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. Prescribers should consider available information on influenza drug susceptibility patterns and treatment effects when deciding whether to use oseltamivir phosphate capsules [see Microbiology (12.4) ] . Oseltamivir phosphate capsules are not recommended for patients with end-stage renal disease not undergoing dialysis [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. ( 1.3 ) Not recommended for patients with end‐stage renal disease not undergoing dialysis. Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is not recommended for patients with end‐stage renal disease not undergoing dialysis [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Oseltamivir phosphate capsules USP, is an influenza neuraminidase inhibitor (NAI) indicated for: • Treatment of acute, uncomplicated influenza A and B in patients 2 weeks of age and older who have been symptomatic for no more than 48 hours. ( 1.1 ) • Prophylaxis of influenza A and B in patients 1 year and older. ( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use: • Not a substitute for annual influenza vaccination. ( 1.3 ) • Consider available information on influenza drug susceptibility patterns and treatment effects when deciding whether to use. ( 1.3 ) • Not recommended for patients with end-stage renal disease not undergoing dialysis. ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Treatment of Influenza Oseltamivir phosphate capsule is indicated for the treatment of acute, uncomplicated illness due to influenza A and B infection in patients 2 weeks of age and older who have been symptomatic for no more than 48 hours. 1.2 Prophylaxis of Influenza Oseltamivir phosphate capsule is indicated for the prophylaxis of influenza A and B in patients 1 year and older. 1.3 Limitations of Use • Oseltamivir phosphate capsule is not a substitute for early influenza vaccination on an annual basis as recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. Prescribers should consider available information on influenza drug susceptibility patterns and treatment effects when deciding whether to use Oseltamivir phosphate capsules [ see Microbiology ( 12.4 ) ]. • Oseltamivir phosphate capsule is not recommended for patients with end-stage renal disease not undergoing dialysis [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oseltamivir phosphate capsule is an influenza neuraminidase inhibitor (NAI) indicated for: Treatment of acute, uncomplicated influenza A and B in patients 2 weeks of age and older who have been symptomatic for no more than 48 hours. (1.1) Prophylaxis of influenza A and B in patients 1 year and older. (1.2) Limitations of Use : Not a substitute for annual influenza vaccination. (1.3) Consider available information on influenza drug susceptibility patterns and treatment effects when deciding whether to use. (1.3) Not recommended for patients with end-stage renal disease not undergoing dialysis. Prescribers should consider available information on influenza drug susceptibility patterns and treatment effects when deciding whether to use oseltamivir phosphate capsules [see Microbiology (12.4)] . Oseltamivir phosphate capsules are not recommended for patients with end-stage renal disease not undergoing dialysis [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oseltamivir Phosphate is an influenza neuraminidase inhibitor (NAI) indicated for: Treatment of acute, uncomplicated influenza A and B in patients 2 weeks of age and older who have been symptomatic for no more than 48 hours. ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Treatment of Influenza Oseltamivir Phosphate Capsules, USP are indicated for the treatment of acute, uncomplicated illness due to influenza A and B infection in patients 2 weeks of age and older who have been symptomatic for no more than 48 hours. 1.2 Prophylaxis of Influenza Oseltamivir Phosphate Capsules, USP are indicated for the prophylaxis of influenza A and B in patients 1 year and older. 1.3 Limitations of Use Oseltamivir Phosphate Capsules, USP are not a substitute for early influenza vaccination on an annual basis as recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. Prescribers should consider available information on influenza drug susceptibility patterns and treatment effects when deciding whether to use Oseltamivir Phosphate Capsules, USP [ see Microbiology (12.4) ] Oseltamivir Phosphate Capsules, USP are not recommended for patients with end-stage renal disease not undergoing dialysis [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Use inSpecific Populations (8.6) ]. ( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use: Not a substitute for annual influenza vaccination. Prescribers should consider available information on influenza drug susceptibility patterns and treatment effects when deciding whether to use Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension [see Microbiology ( 12.4 )] . Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension is not recommended for patients with end-stage renal disease not undergoing dialysis [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . 1.1 Treatment of Influenza Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension is indicated for the treatment of acute, uncomplicated illness due to influenza A and B infection in patients 2 weeks of age and older who have been symptomatic for no more than 48 hours. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oseltamivir phosphate capsules are an influenza neuraminidase inhibitor (NAI) indicated for: • Treatment of acute, uncomplicated influenza A and B in patients 2 weeks of age and older who have been symptomatic for no more than 48 hours. ( 1.3 ) • Not recommended for patients with end‐stage renal disease not undergoing dialysis. Prescribers should consider available information on influenza drug susceptibility patterns and treatment effects when deciding whether to use oseltamivir phosphate capsules [see Microbiology (12.4) ]. • Oseltamivir phosphate capsules are not recommended for patients with end‐stage renal disease not undergoing dialysis [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is an influenza neuraminidase inhibitor (NAI) indicated for: • Treatment of acute, uncomplicated influenza A and B in patients 2 weeks of age and older who have been symptomatic for no more than 48 hours. () • Prophylaxis of influenza A and B in patients 1 year and older. () Limitations of Use : • Not a substitute for annual influenza vaccination. () • Consider available information on influenza drug susceptibility patterns and treatment effects when deciding whether to use. () • Not recommended for patients with end-stage renal disease not undergoing dialysis. () 1.1 Treatment of Influenza Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is indicated for the treatment of acute, uncomplicated illness due to influenza A and B infection in patients 2 weeks of age and older who have been symptomatic for no more than 48 hours. 1.3 Limitations of Use • Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is not a substitute for early influenza vaccination on an annual basis as recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. Prescribers should consider available information on influenza drug susceptibility patterns and treatment effects when deciding whether to use oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension [see Microbiology ( )]. • Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is not recommended for patients with end-stage renal disease not undergoing dialysis [see Dosage and Administration ( ) and Use in Specific Populations ( )].
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Treatment of influenza Adults and adolescents (13 years and older): 75 mg twice daily for 5 days ( 2.2 ) Pediatric patients 1 to 12 years of age: Based on weight twice daily for 5 days ( 2.2 ) Pediatric patients 2 weeks to less than 1 year of age: 3mg/kg twice daily for 5 days ( 2.2 ) Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >30 to 60 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg twice daily for 5 days ( 2.4 ) Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >10 to 30 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once daily for 5 days ( 2.4 ) ESRD patients on hemodialysis: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after every hemodialysis cycle. Treatment duration not to exceed 5 days ( 2.4 ) ESRD patients on CAPD: Reduce to a single 30 mg dose immediately ( 2.4 ) Prophylaxis of influenza Adults and adolescents (13 years and older): 75 mg once daily for at least 10 days ( 2.3 ) Community outbreak: 75 mg once daily for up to 6 weeks ( 2.3 ) Pediatric patients 1 to 12 years of age: Based on weight once daily for 10 days ( 2.3 ) Community outbreak: Based on weight once daily for up to 6 weeks ( 2.3 ) Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >30 to 60 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once daily ( 2.4 ) Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >10 to 30 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once every other day ( 2.4 ) ESRD patients on hemodialysis: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after alternate hemodialysis cycles for the recommended duration of prophylaxis ( 2.4 ) ESRD patients on CAPD: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg once weekly for the recommended duration of prophylaxis ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Dosage and Administration Overview Administer oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension for the treatment of influenza in patients 2 weeks of age or older [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] or for prophylaxis of influenza in patients 1 year and older [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] using: Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension (supplied as a powder). This is the preferred formulation (6 mg per mL) for patients who cannot swallow capsules. Prior to use, the supplied oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension powder must be constituted with water by the pharmacist to produce the oral suspension [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )]. The oral suspension may be taken with or without food; however, tolerability may be enhanced if oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is taken with food. Adjust the oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension dosage in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ]. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Treatment of Influenza Initiate treatment with oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension within 48 hours of influenza symptom onset. Adults and Adolescents (13 years of age and older) The recommended oral dosage of oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension for treatment of influenza in adults and adolescents 13 years and older is 75 mg twice daily (12.5 mL of oral suspension twice daily) for 5 days. Pediatric Patients (2 weeks of age through 12 years of age) Table 1 displays the recommended oral dosage of oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension for treatment of influenza in pediatric patients 2 weeks of age through 12 years of age and provides information about prescribing the formulation for oral suspension. 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Prophylaxis of Influenza Initiate post-exposure prophylaxis with oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension within 48 hours following close contact with an infected individual. Initiate seasonal prophylaxis with oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension during a community outbreak. Adults and Adolescents (13 years of age and older) The recommended dosage of oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension for prophylaxis of influenza in adults and adolescents 13 years and older is 75 mg orally once daily (12.5 mL of oral suspension once daily) for at least 10 days following close contact with an infected individual and up to 6 weeks during a community outbreak. In immunocompromised patients, oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension may be continued for up to 12 weeks [see Use in Specific Populations (8.9) ] . The duration of protection lasts for as long as oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension dosing is continued. Pediatric Patients (1 year to 12 years of age) Table 1 displays the recommended oral dosage of oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension for prophylaxis of influenza in pediatric patients 1 year to 12 years of age based on body weight and provides information about prescribing the formulation for oral suspension. Prophylaxis in pediatric patients is recommended for 10 days following close contact with an infected individual and up to 6 weeks during a community outbreak [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Clinical Studies (14.2)] . Table 1 Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension Dosage Recommendations in Pediatric Patients for Treatment and Prophylaxis of Influenza Weight Treat m e nt Dosage for 5 days Prophylaxis Dosage for 10 days* Volu m e of Oral Suspens i on (6 mg/mL) for each Dose † Numbe r of Bottles of Oral Suspension to Dispense P atients from 2 Weeks to less than 1 Year of Age Any weight 3 mg/kg twice daily Not applicable 0.5 mL/kg§ 1 bottle P atients 1 to 12 Years of Age Based on Body Weight 15 kg or less 30 mg twice daily 30 mg once daily 5 mL 1 bottle 15.1 kg to 23 kg 45 mg twice daily 45 mg once daily 7.5 mL 2 botles 23.1 kg to 40 kg 60 mg twice daily 60 mg once daily 10 mL 2 bottles 40.1 kg or more 75 mg twice daily 75 mg once daily 12.5 mL 3 bottles * The recommended duration for post‐exposure prophylaxis is 10 days and the recommended duration for community outbreak (seasonal/pre‐exposure) prophylaxis is up to 6 weeks (or up to 12 weeks in immunocompromised patients). The amount supplied (e.g., number of bottles) for seasonal prophylaxis may be greater than for post‐exposure prophylaxis. † Use an oral dosing dispensing device that measures the appropriate volume in mL with the oral suspension. § For patients less than 1 year of age, provide an appropriate dosing device that can accurately measure and administer small volumes. 2.4 Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment Table 2 displays the dosage recommendations for the treatment and prophylaxis of influenza in adults with various stages of renal impairment (estimated creatinine clearance of less than or equal to 90 mL per minute). Dosage modifications are recommended in adults with an estimated creatinine clearance less than or equal to 60 mL per minute [see Use in Specific Population (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Table 2 Recommended Dosage Modifications for Treatment and Prophylaxis of Influenza in Adults with Renal Impairment or End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) on Dialysis Renal Impairment (Creatinine Clearance) Recommended Treatment Regimen Oral suspension can be used for 30 mg dosing. Recommended Prophylaxis Regimen The recommended duration for post-exposure prophylaxis is at least 10 days and the recommended duration for community outbreak (seasonal/pre-exposure) prophylaxis is up to 6 weeks (or up to 12 weeks in immunocompromised patients). Mild (>60 to 90 mL/minute) 75 mg twice daily for 5 days 75 mg once daily Moderate (>30 to 60 mL/minute) 30 mg twice daily for 5 days 30 mg once daily Severe (>10 to 30 mL/minute) 30 mg once daily for 5 days 30 mg every other day ESRD Patients on Hemodialysis (≤ 10 mL/minute) 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after every hemodialysis cycle (treatment duration not to exceed 5 days) 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after alternate hemodialysis cycles ESRD Patients on Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis Data derived from studies in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients. (≤10 mL/minute) A single 30 mg dose administered immediately 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg once weekly ESRD Patients not on Dialysis Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is not recommended Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is are not recommended 2.5 Preparation and Storage of Constituted Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension Prior to dispensing to the patient, constitute oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension (supplied as powder): a) Tap the closed bottle containing the supplied oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension white to light yellow powder several times to loosen the powder. b) Tear off the foil seal after loosening the powder. c) Measure 55 mL of water in a graduated cylinder. d) Add the total amount of water for constitution to the bottle. e) Close bottle with child‐resistant cap tightly and shake the closed bottle well for 15 seconds. f) Label the bottle with instructions to “Shake Well Before Use”. g) The constituted oral suspension contains 360 mg of oseltamivir base per 60 mL of volume (6 mg per mL) and is white to light yellow, sour cherry-flavored). Use the constituted oral suspension within 17 days of preparation when stored under refrigeration, 2º to 8ºC (36º to 46ºF), or within 10 days if stored at controlled room temperature, 20º to 25ºC (68º to 77ºF). Keep the bottle in the outer carton in order to protect from light. Write the expiration date of the constituted oral suspension on the bottle label. h) Ensure patients have an oral dosing dispenser that measures the appropriate volume in milliliters. Counsel patients on how to utilize the oral dosing dispenser and correctly measure the oral suspension as prescribed (see Tables 1 and 2). 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Treatment of influenza ( 2.2) • Adults and adolescents (13 years and older): 75 mg twice daily for 5 days • Pediatric patients 1 to 12 years of age: Based on weight twice daily for 5 days • Pediatric patients 2 weeks to less than 1 year of age: 3 mg/kg twice daily for 5 days • Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >30 to 60 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg twice daily for 5 days (2.4) • Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >10 to 30 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once daily for 5 days (2.4) • ESRD patients on hemodialysis: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after every hemodialysis cycle. Treatment duration not to exceed 5 days (2.4) • ESRD patients on CAPD: Reduce to a single 30 mg dose immediately (2.4) Prophylaxis of influenza (2.3) • Adults and adolescents (13 years and older): 75 mg once daily for at least 10 days - Community outbreak: 75 mg once daily for up to 6 weeks • Pediatric patients 1 to 12 years of age: Based on weight once daily for 10 days - Community outbreak: Based on weight once daily for up to 6 weeks • Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >30 to 60 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once daily (2.4) • Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >10 to 30 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once every other day (2.4) • ESRD patients on hemodialysis: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after alternate hemodialysis cycles for the recommended duration of prophylaxis (2.4) • ESRD patients on CAPD: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg once weekly for the recommended duration of prophylaxis (2.4 ) 2.1 Dosage and Administration Overview Administer oseltamivir phosphate capsules for the treatment of influenza in patients 2 weeks of age or older [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2)] or for prophylaxis of influenza in patients 1 year and older [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)] using: • Oseltamivir phosphate capsules The capsules may be taken with or without food; however, tolerability may be enhanced if oseltamivir phosphate capsule are taken with food. Adjust the oseltamivir phosphate capsules dosage in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment [see Dosage and Administration (2.4)]. For patients who cannot swallow capsules, oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is the preferred formulation. When oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is not available from wholesaler or the manufacturer, oseltamivir phosphate capsules may be opened and mixed with sweetened liquids such as regular or sugar-free chocolate syrup, corn syrup, caramel topping, or light brown sugar (dissolved in water). During emergency situations and when neither the oral suspension or the age-appropriate strengths of oseltamivir phosphate capsules to mix with sweetened liquids are available, then a pharmacist may prepare an emergency supply of oral suspension from oseltamivir phosphate 75 mg capsules [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6)]. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Treatment of Influenza Initiate treatment with oseltamivir phosphate capsules within 48 hours of influenza symptom onset. Adults and Adolescents (13 years of age and older) The recommended oral dosage of oseltamivir phosphate capsules for treatment of influenza in adults and adolescents 13 years and older is 75 mg twice daily (one 75 mg capsule twice daily) for 5 days. Pediatric Patients (2 weeks of age through 12 years of age) Table 1 displays the recommended oral dosage of oseltamivir phosphate capsules for treatment of influenza in pediatric patients 2 weeks of age through 12 years of age and provides information about prescribing the capsule or the formulation for oral suspension. 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Prophylaxis of Influenza Initiate post-exposure prophylaxis with oseltamivir phosphate capsules within 48 hours following close contact with an infected individual. Initiate seasonal prophylaxis with oseltamivir phosphate capsules during a community outbreak. Adults and Adolescents (13 years of age and older) The recommended dosage of oseltamivir phosphate capsules for prophylaxis of influenza in adults and adolescents 13 years and older is 75 mg orally once daily (one 75 mg capsule once daily) for at least 10 days following close contact with an infected individual and up to 6 weeks during a community outbreak. In immunocompromised patients, oseltamivir phosphate capsules may be continued for up to 12 weeks [see Use in Specific Populations (8.9)]. The duration of protection lasts for as long as oseltamivir phosphate capsules dosing is continued. Pediatric Patients (1 year to 12 years of age) Table 1 displays the recommended oral dosage of oseltamivir phosphate for prophylaxis of influenza in pediatric patients 1 year to 12 years of age based on body weight and provides information about prescribing the capsule or the formulation for oral suspension. Prophylaxis in pediatric patients is recommended for 10 days following close contact with an infected individual and up to 6 weeks during a community outbreak [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Clinical Studies (14.2)]. Table 1 Oseltamivir Phosphate Dosage Recommendations in Pediatric Patients for Treatment and Prophylaxis of Influenza Weight Treatment Dosage for 5 days Prophylaxis Dosage for 10 days* Volume of Oral Suspension (6 mg/mL) for each Dose † Number of Bottles of Oral Suspension to Dispense Number of Capsules to Dispense (Strength) ‡ Patients from 2 Weeks to less than 1 Year of Age Any weight 3 mg/kg twice daily Not applicable 0.5 mL/kg § 1 bottle Not applicable Patients 1 to 12 Years of Age Based on Body Weight 15 kg or less 30 mg twice daily 30 mg once daily 5 mL 1 bottle 10 Capsules (30 mg) 15.1 kg to 23 kg 45 mg twice daily 45 mg once daily 7.5 mL 2 bottles 10 Capsules (45 mg) 23.1 kg to 40 kg 60 mg twice daily 60 mg once daily 10 mL 2 bottles 20 Capsules (30 mg) 40.1 kg or more 75 mg twice daily 75 mg once daily 12.5 mL 3 bottles 10 Capsules (75 mg) * The recommended duration for post-exposure prophylaxis is 10 days and the recommended duration for community outbreak (seasonal/pre-exposure) prophylaxis is up to 6 weeks (or up to 12 weeks in immunocompromised patients). The amount supplied (e.g., number of bottles or capsules) for seasonal prophylaxis may be greater than for post-exposure prophylaxis. ‡ Oseltamivir phosphate capsules for oral suspension is the preferred formulation for patients who cannot swallow capsules. Dosage modifications are recommended in adults with an estimated creatinine clearance less than or equal to 60 mL per minute [ see Use in Specific Population (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Table 2 Recommended Dosage Modifications for Treatment and Prophylaxis of Influenza in Adults with Renal Impairment or End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) on Dialysis Renal Impairment (Creatinine Clearance) Recommended Treatment Regimen* Recommended Prophylaxis Regimen*† Mild (>60-90 mL/minute) 75 mg twice daily for 5 days 75 mg once daily Moderate (>30-60 mL/minute) 30 mg twice daily for 5 days 30 mg once daily Severe (>10-30 mL/minute) 30 mg once daily for 5 days 30 mg every other day ESRD Patients on Hemodialysis (≤ 10 mL/minute) 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after every hemodialysis cycle (treatment duration not to exceed 5 days) 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after alternate hemodialysis cycles ESRD Patients on Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis‡ (≤10 mL/minute) A single 30 mg dose administered immediately 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg once weekly ESRD Patients not on Dialysis Oseltamivir phosphateis not recommended Oseltamivir phosphate is not recommended * Capsules or oral suspension can be used for 30 mg dosing. † The recommended duration for post-exposure prophylaxis is at least 10 days and the recommended duration for community outbreak (seasonal/pre-exposure) prophylaxis is up to 6 weeks (or up to 12 weeks in immunocompromised patients). ‡ Data derived from studies in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients. 2.6 Emergency Preparation of Oral Suspension from 75 mg Oseltamivir Phosphate Capsules The following directions are provided for use only during emergency situations and when FDA-approved, commercially manufactured oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is not available from wholesalers or the manufacturer. The following emergency preparation instructions will provide one patient with enough oseltamivir phosphate capsules for a 5-day course of treatment of influenza or a 10-day course of prophylaxis of influenza: Step #1: Determine the dosage of oseltamivir phosphate capsules for the patient [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.3, and 2.4 )] then determine the total volume of oral suspension needed to be prepared (see Table 3). Table 3 Emergency Preparation: Volume of Prepared Oral Suspension (6 mg per mL) Based Upon Oseltamivir Phosphate Capsules Dose Oseltamivir Phosphate Capsules Dose* Total Volume to Prepare per Patient 15 mg or less 37.5 mL 30 mg 75 mL 45 mg 100 mL 60 mg 125 mL 75 mg 150 mL * If the oseltamivir phosphate capsules dose is between the doses listed, use the greater listed dose to determine the total volume of prepared oral suspension. Step #2: Preparation must be performed with only one of the following vehicles (other vehicles have not been studied): Cherry Syrup (Humco®), Ora-Sweet® SF (sugar-free) (Paddock Laboratories), or simple syrup. Determine the number of capsules and the amount of water and vehicle needed to prepare the total volume (see Table 3) of prepared oral suspension (6 mg per mL) for a complete treatment or prophylaxis course (see Table 4). Table 4 Emergency Preparation: Number of Oseltamivir Phosphate 75 mg Capsules and Amount of Water and Vehicle Needed to Prepare the Total Volume of a Prepared Oral Suspension (6 mg per mL) Total Volume of Prepared Oral Suspension 37.5 mL 75 mL 100 mL 125 mL 150 mL Number of Oseltamivir Phosphate 75 mg Capsules (Total Strength)* 3 (225 mg) 6 (450 mg) 8 (600 mg) 10 (750 mg) 12 (900 mg) Amount of Water 2.5 mL 5 mL 7 mL 8 mL 10 mL Volume of Vehicle Cherry Syrup (Humco ® ) OR Ora-Sweet ® SF (Paddock Laboratories) OR simple syrup 34.5 mL 69 mL 91 mL 115 mL 137 mL *Includes overage to ensure all doses can be delivered Step #3 : Follow the instructions below for preparing the 75 mg oseltamivir phosphate capsules to produce the oral suspension (6 mg per mL): a. Place the specified amount of water into a polyethyleneterephthalate (PET) or glass bottle (see Table 4). Constitution in other bottle types is not recommended because there is no stability data with other bottle types. b. Carefully separate the capsule body and cap and pour the contents of the required number of oseltamivir phosphate 75 mg capsules into the PET or glass bottle. c. Gently swirl the suspension to ensure adequate wetting of the oseltamivir phosphate powder for at least 2 minutes. d. Slowly add the specified amount of vehicle to the bottle. e. Close the bottle using a child-resistant cap and shake well for 30 seconds to completely dissolve the active drug and to ensure homogeneous distribution of the dissolved drug in the resulting suspension. The active drug, oseltamivir phosphate, readily dissolves in the specified vehicles. The suspension is caused by inert ingredients of oseltamivir phosphate capsules which are insoluble in these vehicles. f. Put an ancillary label on the bottle indicating “Shake Well Before Use.” g. Instruct the parent or caregiver that any unused suspension remaining in the bottle following completion of therapy must be discarded by either affixing an ancillary label to the bottle or adding a statement to the pharmacy label instructions. h. Place a pharmacy label on the bottle that includes the patient’s name, dosing instructions, drug name and any other required information to be in compliance with all State and Federal Pharmacy Regulations. Place an appropriate expiration date on the label according to storage conditions below. i. Include the recommended dosage on the pharmacy label as per Tables 1 and 2 [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.3, and 2.4)]. j. Store the prepared oral suspension in glass or PET bottles either: • In a refrigerator [2o to 8oC (36° to 46°F)]: Stable for 5 weeks when stored in a refrigerator. • At room temperature [25oC (77°F)]: Stable for 5 days when stored at room temperature. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Treatment of influenza Adults and adolescents (13 years and older): 75 mg twice daily for 5 days ( 2.2 ) Pediatric patients 1 to 12 years of age: Based on weight twice daily for 5 days ( 2.2 ) Pediatric patients 2 weeks to less than 1 year of age: 3mg/kg twice daily for 5 days ( 2.2 ) Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >30-60 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg twice daily for 5 days ( 2.4 ) Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >10-30 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once daily for 5 days ( 2.4 ) ESRD patients on hemodialysis: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after every hemodialysis cycle. Treatment duration not to exceed 5 days ( 2.4 ) ESRD patients on CAPD: Reduce to a single 30 mg dose immediately ( 2.4 ) Prophylaxis of influenza Adults and adolescents (13 years and older): 75 mg once daily for at least 10 days ( 2.3 ) Community outbreak: 75 mg once daily for up to 6 weeks ( 2.3 ) Pediatric patients 1 to 12 years of age: Based on weight once daily for 10 days ( 2.3 ) Community outbreak: Based on weight once daily for up to 6 weeks ( 2.3 ) Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >30-60 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once daily ( 2.4 ) Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >10-30 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once every other day ( 2.4 ) ESRD patients on hemodialysis: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after alternate hemodialysis cycles for the recommended duration of prophylaxis ( 2.4 ) ESRD patients on CAPD: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg once weekly for the recommended duration of prophylaxis ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Dosage and Administration Overview Administer oseltamivir phosphate capsules for the treatment of influenza in patients 2 weeks of age or older [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] or for prophylaxis of influenza in patients 1 year and older [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . The capsules may be taken with or without food; however, tolerability may be enhanced if oseltamivir phosphate capsules are taken with food. Adjust the oseltamivir phosphate capsules dosage in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ]. During emergency situations and when neither the oral suspension or the age-appropriate strengths of oseltamivir phosphate capsules to mix with sweetened liquids are available, then a pharmacist may prepare an emergency supply of oral suspension from oseltamivir phosphate 75 mg capsules [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ]. Adults and Adolescents (13 years of age and older) The recommended oral dosage of oseltamivir phosphate capsules for treatment of influenza in adults and adolescents 13 years and older is 75 mg twice daily (one 75 mg capsule or 12.5 mL of oral suspension twice daily) for 5 days. Adults and Adolescents (13 years of age and older) The recommended dosage of oseltamivir phosphate capsules for prophylaxis of influenza in adults and adolescents 13 years and older is 75 mg orally once daily (one 75 mg capsule or 12.5 mL of oral suspension once daily) for at least 10 days following close contact with an infected individual and up to 6 weeks during a community outbreak. In immunocompromised patients, oseltamivir phosphate capsules may be continued for up to 12 weeks [see Use in Specific Populations (8.9) ] . Pediatric Patients (1 year to 12 years of age) Table 1 displays the recommended oral dosage of oseltamivir phosphate capsules for prophylaxis of influenza in pediatric patients 1 year to 12 years of age based on body weight and provides information about prescribing the capsule or the formulation for oral suspension. Prophylaxis in pediatric patients is recommended for 10 days following close contact with an infected individual and up to 6 weeks during a community outbreak [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Table 1 Oseltamivir Phosphate Capsules Dosage Recommendations in Pediatric Patients for Treatment and Prophylaxis of Influenza Weight Treatment Dosage for 5 days Prophylaxis Dosage for 10 days The recommended duration for post-exposure prophylaxis is 10 days and the recommended duration for community outbreak (seasonal/pre-exposure) prophylaxis is up to 6 weeks (or up to 12 weeks in immunocompromised patients). The amount supplied (e.g., number of bottles or capsules) for seasonal prophylaxis may be greater than for post-exposure prophylaxis.Use an oral dosing dispensing device that measures the appropriate volume in mL with the oral suspension. Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is the preferred formulation for patients who cannot swallow capsules.For patients less than 1 year of age, provide an appropriate dosing device that can accurately measure and administer small volumes. Volume of Oral Suspension (6 mg/mL) for each Dose Use an oral dosing dispensing device that measures the appropriate volume in mL with the oral suspension. Number of Bottles of Oral Suspension to Dispense Number of Capsules to Dispense (Strength) Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is the preferred formulation for patients who cannot swallow capsules. Patients from 2 Weeks to less than 1 Year of Age Any weight 3 mg/kg twice daily Not applicable 0.5 mL/kg For patients less than 1 year of age, provide an appropriate dosing device that can accurately measure and administer small volumes. 1 bottle Not applicable Patients 1 to 12 Years of Age Based on Body Weight 15 kg or less 30 mg twice daily 30 mg once daily 5 mL 1 bottle 10 capsules (30 mg) 15.1 kg to 23 kg 45 mg twice daily 45 mg once daily 7.5 mL 2 bottles 10 capsules (45 mg) 23.1 kg to 40 kg 60 mg twice daily 60 mg once daily 10 mL 2 bottles 20 capsules (30 mg) 40.1 kg or more 75 mg twice daily 75 mg once daily 12.5 mL 3 bottles 10 capsules (75 mg) 2.4 Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment Table 2 displays the dosage recommendations for the treatment and prophylaxis of influenza in adults with various stages of renal impairment (estimated creatinine clearance of less than or equal to 90 mL per minute). Table 2 Recommended Dosage Modifications for Treatment and Prophylaxis of Influenza in Adults with Renal Impairment or End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) on Dialysis Renal Impairment (Creatinine Clearance) Recommended Treatment Regimen Capsules or oral suspension can be used for 30 mg dosing. Recommended Prophylaxis Regimen The recommended duration for post-exposure prophylaxis is at least 10 days and the recommended duration for community outbreak (seasonal/pre-exposure) prophylaxis is up to 6 weeks (or up to 12 weeks in immunocompromised patients).Data derived from studies in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients. Mild (>60-90 mL/minute) 75 mg twice daily for 5 days 75 mg once daily Moderate (>30-60 mL/minute) 30 mg twice daily for 5 days 30 mg once daily Severe (>10-30 mL/minute) 30 mg once daily for 5 days 30 mg every other day ESRD Patients on Hemodialysis (≤ 10 mL/minute) 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after every hemodialysis cycle (treatment duration not to exceed 5 days) 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after alternate hemodialysis cycles ESRD Patients on Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis Data derived from studies in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients. (≤10 mL/minute) A single 30 mg dose administered immediately 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg once weekly ESRD Patients not on Dialysis Oseltamivir phosphate capsules are not recommended Oseltamivir phosphate capsules are not recommended 2.6 Emergency Preparation of Oral Suspension from 75 mg Oseltamivir Phosphate Capsules The following directions are provided for use only during emergency situations and when FDA-approved, commercially manufactured oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is not available from wholesalers or the manufacturer. The following emergency preparation instructions will provide one patient with enough oseltamivir phosphate capsules for a 5-day course of treatment of influenza or a 10-day course of prophylaxis of influenza: Step #1 : Determine the dosage of oseltamivir phosphate capsules for the patient [see Dosage and Administration (2.2 , 2.3 , and 2.4) ] then determine the total volume of oral suspension needed to be prepared (see Table 3 ). Table 3 Emergency Preparation: Volume of Prepared Oral Suspension (6 mg per mL) Based Upon Oseltamivir Phosphate Capsules Dose Oseltamivir Phosphate Capsules Dose If the oseltamivir phosphate capsules dose is between the doses listed, use the greater listed dose to determine the total volume of prepared oral suspension. Total Volume to Prepare per Patient 15 mg or less 37.5 mL 30 mg 75 mL 45 mg 100 mL 60 mg 125 mL 75 mg 150 mL Step #2 : Preparation must be performed with only one of the following vehicles (other vehicles have not been studied): Cherry Syrup (Humco ® ), Ora-Sweet ® SF (sugar-free) (Paddock Laboratories), or simple syrup. Determine the number of capsules and the amount of water and vehicle needed to prepare the total volume (see Table 3 ) of prepared oral suspension (6 mg per mL) for a complete treatment or prophylaxis course (see Table 4 ). Table 4 Emergency Preparation: Number of Oseltamivir Phosphate 75 mg Capsules and Amount of Water and Vehicle Needed to Prepare the Total Volume of a Prepared Oral Suspension (6 mg per mL) Total Volume of Prepared Oral Suspension 37.5 mL 75 mL 100 mL 125 mL 150 mL Number of Oseltamivir Phosphate 75 mg Capsules (Total Strength) Includes overage to ensure all doses can be delivered 3 (225 mg) 6 (450 mg) 8 (600 mg) 10 (750 mg) 12 (900 mg) Amount of Water 2.5 mL 5 mL 7 mL 8 mL 10 mL Volume of Vehicle Cherry Syrup (Humco ® ) OR Ora-Sweet ® SF (Paddock Laboratories) OR simple syrup 34.5 mL 69 mL 91 mL 115 mL 137 mL Step #3 : Follow the instructions below for preparing the 75 mg oseltamivir phosphate capsules to produce the oral suspension (6 mg per mL): Place the specified amount of water into a polyethyleneterephthalate (PET) or glass bottle (see Table 4 ). Gently swirl the suspension to ensure adequate wetting of the oseltamivir phosphate capsules powder for at least 2 minutes. Put an ancillary label on the bottle indicating "Shake Well Before Use." Instruct the parent or caregiver that any unused suspension remaining in the bottle following completion of therapy must be discarded by either affixing an ancillary label to the bottle or adding a statement to the pharmacy label instructions. Place a pharmacy label on the bottle that includes the patient's name, dosing instructions, drug name and any other required information to be in compliance with all State and Federal Pharmacy Regulations. Include the recommended dosage on the pharmacy label as per Tables 1 and 2 [see Dosage and Administration (2.2 , 2.3 , and 2.4) ]. Store the prepared oral suspension in glass or PET bottles either: In a refrigerator [2° to 8°C (36° to 46°F)]: Stable for 5 weeks when stored in a refrigerator. At room temperature [25°C (77°F)]: Stable for 5 days when stored at room temperature. Treatment duration not to exceed 5 days ( 2.4 ) ESRD patients on CAPD: Reduce to a single 30 mg dose immediately ( 2.4 ) Prophylaxis of influenza Adults and adolescents (13 years and older): 75 mg once daily for at least 10 days ( 2.3 ) - Community outbreak: 75 mg once daily for up to 6 weeks ( 2.3 ) Pediatric patients 1 to 12 years of age: Based on weight once daily for 10 days ( 2.3 ) - Community outbreak: Based on weight once daily for up to 6 weeks ( 2.3 ) Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >30 to 60 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once daily ( 2.4 ) Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >10 to 30 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once every other day ( 2.4 ) ESRD patients on hemodialysis: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after alternate hemodialysis cycles for the recommended duration of prophylaxis ( 2.4 ) ESRD patients on CAPD: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg once weekly for the recommended duration of prophylaxis ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Dosage and Administration Overview Administer oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension for the treatment of influenza in patients 2 weeks of age or older [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] or for prophylaxis of influenza in patients 1 year and older [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] using: Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension (supplied as a powder). Prior to use, the supplied oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension powder must be constituted with water by the pharmacist to produce the oral suspension [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Prophylaxis of Influenza Initiate post‐exposure prophylaxis with oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension within 48 hours following close contact with an infected individual. Table 1 Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension Dosage Recommendations in Pediatric Patients for Treatment and Prophylaxis of Influenza Weight Treatment Dosage for 5 days Prophylaxis Dosage for 10 days* Volume of Oral Suspension (6 mg/mL) for each Dose † Number of Bottles of Oral Suspension to Dispense Patients from 2 Weeks to less than 1 Year of Age Any weight 3 mg/kg twice daily Not applicable 0.5 mL/kg § 1 bottle Patients 1 to 12 Years of Age Based on Body Weight 15 kg or less 30 mg twice daily 30 mg once daily 5 mL 1 bottle 15.1 kg to 23 kg 45 mg twice daily 45 mg once daily 7.5 mL 2 bottles 23.1 kg to 40 kg 60 mg twice daily 60 mg once daily 10 mL 2 bottles 40.1 kg or more 75 mg twice daily 75 mg once daily 12.5 mL 3 bottles * The recommended duration for post-exposure prophylaxis is 10 days and the recommended duration for community outbreak (seasonal/pre-exposure) prophylaxis is up to 6 weeks (or up to 12 weeks in immunocompromised patients). Table 2 Recommended Dosage Modifications for Treatment and Prophylaxis of Influenza in Adults with Renal Impairment or End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) on Dialysis Renal Impairment (Creatinine Clearance) Recommended Treatment Regimen * Recommended Prophylaxis Regimen * † Mild (>60 to 90 mL/minute) 75 mg twice daily for 5 days 75 mg once daily Moderate (>30 to 60 mL/minute) 30 mg twice daily for 5 days 30 mg once daily Severe (>10 to 30 mL/minute) 30 mg once daily for 5 days 30 mg every other day ESRD Patients on Hemodialysis (≤ 10 mL/minute) 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after every hemodialysis cycle (treatment duration not to exceed 5 days) 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after alternate hemodialysis cycles ESRD Patients on Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis‡ (≤10 mL/minute) A single 30 mg dose administered immediately 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg once weekly ESRD Patients not on Dialysis Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is not recommended Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is not recommended * Oral suspension can be used for 30 mg dosing. 2.5 Preparation and Storage of Constituted Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension Prior to dispensing to the patient, constitute oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension (supplied as powder): a) Tap the closed bottle containing the supplied oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension white to off-white granular powder several times to loosen the powder. b) Measure 55 mL of water in a graduated cylinder. c) Add the total amount of water for constitution to the bottle. d) Close bottle with child-resistant cap tightly and shake the closed bottle well for 15 seconds. e) Label the bottle with instructions to “Shake Well Before Use”. f) The constituted oral suspension contains 360 mg of oseltamivir base per 60 mL of volume (6 mg per mL) and is white to off white color, tutti-frutti flavored homogenous suspension. Use the constituted oral suspension within 17 days of preparation when stored under refrigeration, 2º to 8ºC (36º to 46ºF), or within 10 days if stored at controlled room temperature, 25ºC (77ºF). g) Ensure patients have an oral dosing dispenser that measures the appropriate volume in milliliters. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Treatment of influenza ( 2.2 ) • Adults and adolescents (13 years and older): 75 mg twice daily for 5 days • Pediatric patients 1 to 12 years of age: Based on weight twice daily for 5 days • Pediatric patients 2 weeks to less than 1 year of age: 3mg/kg twice daily for 5 days • Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >30-60 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg twice daily for 5 days ( 2.4 ) • Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >10-30 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once daily for 5 days ( 2.4 ) • ESRD patients on hemodialysis: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after every hemodialysis cycle. Treatment duration not to exceed 5 days ( 2.4 ) • ESRD patients on CAPD: Reduce to a single 30 mg dose immediately ( 2.4 ) Prophylaxis of influenza ( 2.3 ) • Adults and adolescents (13 years and older): 75 mg once daily for at least 10 days -Community outbreak: 75 mg once daily for up to 6 weeks • Pediatric patients 1 to 12 years of age: Based on weight once daily for 10 days -Community outbreak: Based on weight once daily for up to 6 weeks • Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >30-60 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once daily ( 2.4 ) • Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >10-30 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once every other day ( 2.4 ) • ESRD patients on hemodialysis: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after alternate hemodialysis cycles for the recommended duration of prophylaxis ( 2.4 ) • ESRD patients on CAPD: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg once weekly for the recommended duration of prophylaxis ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Dosage and Administration Overview Administer oseltamivir phosphate for the treatment of influenza in patients 2 weeks of age or older [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )] or for prophylaxis of influenza in patients 1 year and older [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] using: • Oseltamivir phosphate capsules • Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension (supplied as a powder). The capsules and oral suspension may be taken with or without food; however, tolerability may be enhanced if oseltamivir phosphate capsules is taken with food. Adjust the oseltamivir phosphate dosage in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )]. During emergency situations and when neither the oral suspension or the age-appropriate strengths of oseltamivir phosphate capsules to mix with sweetened liquids are available, then a pharmacist may prepare an emergency supply of oral suspension from oseltamivir phosphate capsules 75 mg [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )]. In immunocompromised patients, oseltamivir phosphate capsules may be continued for up to 12 weeks [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.9 ) ]. Prophylaxis in pediatric patients is recommended for 10 days following close contact with an infected individual and up to 6 weeks during a community outbreak [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ]. Table 1 Oseltamivir Phosphate Dosage Recommendations in Pediatric Patients for Treatment and Prophylaxis of Influenza Weight (kg) Treatment Dosage for 5 days Prophylaxis Dosage for 10 days* Volume of Oral Suspension (6 mg/mL) for each Dose † Number of Bottles of Oral Suspension to Dispense Number of Capsules to Dispense (Strength)‡ Patients from 2 Weeks to less than 1 Year of Age Any weight 3 mg/kg twice daily Not applicable 0.5 mL/kg § 1 bottle Not applicable Patients 1 to 12 Years of Age Based on Body Weight 15 kg or less 30 mg twice daily 30 mg once daily 5 mL 1 bottle 10 Capsules (30 mg) 15.1 kg to 23 kg 45 mg twice daily 45 mg once daily 7.5 mL 2 bottles 10 Capsules (45 mg) 23.1 kg to 40 kg 60 mg twice daily 60 mg once daily 10 mL 2 bottles 20 Capsules (30 mg) 40.1 kg or more 75 mg twice daily 75 mg once daily 12.5 mL 3 bottles 10 Capsules (75 mg) * The recommended duration for post-exposure prophylaxis is 10 days and the recommended duration for community outbreak (seasonal/pre-exposure) prophylaxis is up to 6 weeks (or up to 12 weeks in immunocompromised patients). ‡ Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is the preferred formulation for patients who cannot swallow capsules. Dosage modifications are recommended in adults with an estimated creatinine clearance less than or equal to 60 mL per minute [ see Use in Specific Population ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Table 2 Recommended Dosage Modifications for Treatment and Prophylaxis of Influenza in Adults with Renal Impairment or End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) on Dialysis Renal Impairment (Creatinine Clearance) Recommended Treatment Regimen * Recommended Prophylaxis Regimen*† Mild (>60-90 mL/minute) 75 mg twice daily for 5 days 75 mg once daily Moderate (>30-60 mL/minute) 30 mg twice daily for 5 days 30 mg once daily Severe (>10-30 mL/minute) 30 mg once daily for 5 days 30 mg every other day ESRD Patients on Hemodialysis (≤10 mL/minute) 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after every hemodialysis cycle (treatment duration not to exceed 5 days) 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after alternate hemodialysis cycles ESRD Patients on Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis‡ (≤10 mL/minute) A single 30 mg dose administered immediately 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg once weekly ESRD Patients not on Dialysis Oseltamivir phosphate capsules are not recommended Oseltamivir phosphate capsules are not recommended * Capsules or oral suspension can be used for 30 mg dosing. The following emergency preparation instructions will provide one patient with enough oseltamivir phosphate for a 5-day course of treatment of influenza or a 10-day course of prophylaxis of influenza: Step #1: Determine the dosage of oseltamivir phosphate for the patient [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.3 , and 2.4 ) ] then determine the total volume of oral suspension needed to be prepared (see Table 3). Table 3 Emergency Preparation: Volume of Prepared Oral Suspension (6 mg per mL) Based Upon Oseltamivir Phosphate Dose Oseltamivir Phosphate Dose* Total Volume to Prepare per Patient 15 mg or less 37.5 mL 30 mg 75 mL 45 mg 100 mL 60 mg 125 mL 75 mg 150 mL * If the oseltamivir phosphate dose is between the doses listed, use the greater listed dose to determine the total volume of prepared oral suspension. Table 4 Emergency Preparation: Number of Oseltamivir Phosphate Capsules 75 mg and Amount of Water and Vehicle Needed to Prepare the Total Volume of a Prepared Oral Suspension (6 mg per mL ) Total Volume of Prepared Oral Suspension 37.5 mL 75 mL 100 mL 125 mL 150 mL Number of Oseltamivir Phosphate Capsules 75 mg (Total Strength)* 3 (225 mg) 6 (450 mg) 8 (600 mg) 10 (750 mg) 12 (900 mg) Amount of Water 2.5 mL 5 mL 7 mL 8 mL 10 mL Volume of Vehicle Cherry Syrup (Humco ® ) OR Ora-Sweet ® SF (Paddock Laboratories) OR simple syrup 34.5 mL 69 mL 91 mL 115 mL 137 mL *Includes overage to ensure all doses can be delivered Step #3: Follow the instructions below for preparing the 75 mg oseltamivir phosphate capsules to produce the oral suspension (6 mg per mL): a. Carefully separate the capsule body and cap and pour the contents of the required number of oseltamivir phosphate capsules 75 mg into the PET or glass bottle. Include the recommended dosage on the pharmacy label as per Tables 1 and 2 [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.3 , and 2.4 ) ]. Store the prepared oral suspension in glass or PET bottles either: • In a refrigerator [2° to 8°C (36° to 46°F)]: Stable for 5 weeks when stored in a refrigerator. • At room temperature [25°C (77°F)]: Stable for 5 days when stored at room temperature. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Treatment of influenza (2.2) Adults and adolescents (13 years and older): 75 mg twice daily for 5 days Pediatric patients 1 to 12 years of age: Based on weight twice daily for 5 days Pediatric patients 2 weeks to less than 1 year of age: 3mg/kg twice daily for 5 days Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >30 to 60 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg twice daily for 5 days (2.4) Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >10 to 30 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once daily for 5 days (2.4) ESRD patients on hemodialysis: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after every hemodialysis cycle. Treatment duration not to exceed 5 days (2.4) ESRD patients on CAPD: Reduce to a single 30 mg dose immediately (2.4) Prophylaxis of influenza (2.3) Adults and adolescents (13 years and older): 75 mg once daily for at least 10 days - Community outbreak: 75 mg once daily for up to 6 weeks Pediatric patients 1 to 12 years of age: Based on weight once daily for 10 days - Community out break: Based on weight once daily for up to 6 weeks Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >30 to 60 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once daily (2.4) Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >10 to 30 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once every other day (2.4) ESRD patients on hemodialysis: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after alternate hemodialysis cycles for the recommended duration of prophylaxis (2.4) ESRD patients on CAPD: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg once weekly for the recommended duration of prophylaxis (2.4) 2.1 Dosage and Administration Overview Administer oseltamivir phosphate capsules for the treatment of influenza in patients 2 weeks of age or older [see Dosage and Administration (2.2)] or for prophylaxis of influenza in patients 1 year and older [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)] using: Oseltamivir phosphate capsules The capsules may be taken with or without food; however, tolerability may be enhanced if oseltamivir phosphate capsules are taken with food. During emergency situations and when neither the oral suspension or the age-appropriate strengths of oseltamivir phosphate capsules to mix with sweetened liquids are available, then a pharmacist may prepare an emergency supply of oral suspension from oseltamivir phosphate 75 mg capsules [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)]. In immunocompromised patients, oseltamivir phosphate capsules may be continued for up to 12 weeks [see Use in Specific Populations (8.9)] . Table 1: Oseltamivir Phosphate Dosage Recommendations in Pediatric Patients for Treatment and Prophylaxis of Influenza Weight Treatment Dosage for 5 days Prophylaxis Dosage for 10 days * Volume of Oral Suspension (6 mg/ mL) for each Dose † Number of Bottles of Oral Suspension to Dispense Number of Capsules to Dispense (Strength) ‡ Patients from 2 Weeks to less than 1 Year of Age Any weight 3 mg/kg twice daily Not applicable 0.5 mL/kg § 1 bottle Not applicable Patients 1 to 12 Years of Age Based on Body Weight 15 kg or less 30 mg twice daily 30 mg once daily 5 mL 1 bottle 10 capsules (30 mg) 15.1 kg to 23 kg 45 mg twice daily 45 mg once daily 7.5 mL 2 bottles 10 capsules (45 mg) 23.1 kg to 40 kg 60 mg twice daily 60 mg once daily 10 mL 2 bottles 20 capsules (30 mg) 40.1 kg or more 75 mg twice daily 75 mg once daily 12.5 mL 3 bottles 10 capsules (75 mg) * The recommended duration for post-exposure prophylaxis is 10 days and the recommended duration for community outbreak (seasonal/pre-exposure) prophylaxis is up to 6 weeks (or up to 12 weeks in immunocompromised patients). Dosage modifications are recommended in adults with an estimated creatinine clearance less than or equal to 60 mL per minute [see Use in Specific Population (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Table 2: Recommended Dosage Modifications for Treatment and Prophylaxis of Influenza in Adults with Renal Impairment or End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) on Dialysis Renal Impairment (Creatinine Clearance) Recommended Treatment Regimen * Recommended Prophylaxis Regimen * † Mild (>60 to 90 mL/minute) 75 mg twice daily for 5 days 75 mg once daily Moderate (>30 to 60 mL/minute) 30 mg twice daily for 5 days 30 mg once daily Severe (>10 to 30 mL/minute) 30 mg once daily for 5 days 30 mg every other day ESRD Patients on Hemodialysis (≤ 10 mL/minute) 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after every hemodialysis cycle (treatment duration not to exceed 5 days) 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after alternate hemodialysis cycles ESRD Patients on Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis ‡ (≤10 mL/minute) A single 30 mg dose administered immediately 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg once weekly ESRD Patients not on Dialysis Oseltamivir phosphate capsules are not recommended Oseltamivir phosphate capsules are not recommended * Capsules or oral suspension can be used for 30 mg dosing. The following emergency preparation instructions will provide one patient with enough oseltamivir phosphate for a 5-day course of treatment of influenza or a 10-day course of prophylaxis of influenza: Step #1 : Determine the dosage of oseltamivir phosphate for the patient [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.3, and 2.4)] then determine the total volume of oral suspension needed to be prepared (see Table 3). Table 3: Emergency Preparation: Volume of Prepared Oral Suspension (6 mg per mL) Based Upon Oseltamivir Phosphate Dose Oseltamivir Phosphate Dose * Total Volume to Prepare per Patient 15 mg or less 37.5 mL 30 mg 75 mL 45 mg 100 mL 60 mg 125 mL 75 mg 150 mL * If the oseltamivir phosphate dose is between the doses listed, use the greater listed dose to determine the total volume of prepared oral suspension. Step #2 : Preparation must be performed with only one of the following vehicles (other vehicles have not been studied): Cherry Syrup (Humco ® ), Ora-Sweet ® SF (sugar-free) (Paddock Laboratories), or simple syrup. Table 4: Emergency Preparation: Number of Oseltamivir Phosphate 75 mg Capsules and Amount of Water and Vehicle Needed to Prepare the Total Volume of a Prepared Oral Suspension (6 mg per mL) Total Volume of Prepared Oral Suspension 37.5 mL 75 mL 100 mL 125 mL 150 mL Number of Oseltamivir Phosphate 75 mg Capsules (Total Strength) * 3 (225 mg) 6 (450 mg) 8 (600 mg) 10 (750 mg) 12 (900 mg) Amount of Water 2.5 mL 5 mL 7 mL 8 mL 10 mL Volume of Vehicle Cherry Syrup (Humco ® ) OR Ora-Sweet ® SF (Paddock Laboratories) OR simple syrup 34.5 mL 69 mL 91 mL 115 mL 137 mL * Includes overage to ensure all doses can be delivered Step #3 : Follow the instructions below for preparing the 75 mg oseltamivir phosphate capsules to produce the oral suspension (6 mg per mL): a. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Treatment of influenza Adults and adolescents (13 years and older): 75 mg twice daily for 5 days ( 2.2 ) Pediatric patients 1 to 12 years of age: Based on weight twice daily for 5 days ( 2.2 ) Pediatric patients 2 weeks to less than 1 year of age: 3 mg/kg twice daily for 5 days ( 2.2 ) Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >30-60 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg twice daily for 5 days ( 2.4 ) Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >10-30 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once daily for 5 days ( 2.4 ) ESRD patients on hemodialysis: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after every hemodialysis cycle. Treatment duration not to exceed 5 days ( 2.4 ) ESRD patients on CAPD: Reduce to a single 30 mg dose immediately ( 2.4 ) Prophylaxis of influenza Adults and adolescents (13 years and older): 75 mg once daily for at least 10 days ( 2.3 ) Community outbreak: 75 mg once daily for up to 6 weeks ( 2.3 ) Pediatric patients 1 to 12 years of age: Based on weight once daily for 10 days ( 2.3 ) Community outbreak: Based on weight once daily for up to 6 weeks ( 2.3 ) Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >30-60 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once daily ( 2.4 ) Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >10-30 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once every other day ( 2.4 ) ESRD patients on hemodialysis: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after alternate hemodialysis cycles for the recommended duration of prophylaxis ( 2.4 ) ESRD patients on CAPD: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg once weekly for the recommended duration of prophylaxis ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Dosage and Administration Overview Administer oseltamivir phosphate capsules for the treatment of influenza in patients 2 weeks of age or older [ see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] or for prophylaxis of influenza in patients 1 year and older [ see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. Adjust the oseltamivir phosphate capsules dosage in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ]. During emergency situations and when neither the oral suspension or the age-appropriate strengths of oseltamivir phosphate capsules to mix with sweetened liquids are available, then a pharmacist may prepare an emergency supply of oral suspension from oseltamivir phosphate 75 mg capsules [ see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ]. Pediatric Patients (2 weeks of age through 12 years of age) Table 1 displays the recommended oral dosage of oseltamivir phosphate for treatment of influenza in pediatric patients 2 weeks of age through 12 years of age and provides information about prescribing the capsule or the formulation for oral suspension. In immunocompromised patients, oseltamivir phosphate capsules may be continued for up to 12 weeks [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.9) ] . Prophylaxis in pediatric patients is recommended for 10 days following close contact with an infected individual and up to 6 weeks during a community outbreak [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Table 1 Oseltamivir Phosphate Dosage Recommendations in Pediatric Patients for Treatment and Prophylaxis of Influenza Weight Treatment Dosage for 5 days Prophylaxis Dosage for 10 days The recommended duration for post-exposure prophylaxis is 10 days and the recommended duration for community outbreak (seasonal/pre-exposure) prophylaxis is up to 6 weeks (or up to 12 weeks in immunocompromised patients). Volume of Oral Suspension (6 mg/mL) for each Dose Number of Bottles of Oral Suspension to Dispense Number of Capsules to Dispense (Strength) Patients from 2 Weeks to less than 1 Year of Age Any weight 3 mg/kg twice daily Not applicable Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is the preferred formulation for patients who cannot swallow capsules. 0.5 mL/kg For patients less than 1 year of age, provide an appropriate dosing device that can accurately measure and administer small volumes. 1 bottle Not applicable Patients from 1 to 12 Years of Age Based on Body Weight 15 kg or less 30 mg twice daily 30 mg once daily 5 mL 1 bottle 10 capsules (30 mg) 15.1 kg to 23 kg 45 mg twice daily 45 mg once daily 7.5 mL 2 bottles 10 capsules (45 mg) 23.1 kg to 40 kg 60 mg twice daily 60 mg once daily 10 mL 2 bottles 20 capsules (30 mg) 40.1 kg or more 75 mg twice daily 75 mg once daily 12.5 mL 3 bottles 10 capsules (75 mg) 2.4 Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment Table 2 displays the dosage recommendations for the treatment and prophylaxis of influenza in adults with various stages of renal impairment (estimated creatinine clearance of less than or equal to 90 mL per minute). Dosage modifications are recommended in adults with an estimated creatinine clearance less than or equal to 60 mL per minute [ see Use in Specific Population (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 2 Recommended Dosage Modifications for Treatment and Prophylaxis of Influenza in Adults with Renal Impairment or End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) on Dialysis Renal Impairment (Creatinine Clearance) Recommended Treatment Regimen Capsules or oral suspension can be used for 30 mg dosing Recommended Prophylaxis Regimen Assuming three hemodialysis sessions are performed in the 5- day period. Treatment can be initiated immediately if influenza symptoms develop during the 48 hours between hemodialysis sessions; however, the post- hemodialysis dose should still be administered independently of time of administration of the initial dose. The recommended duration for post-exposure prophylaxis is at least 10 days and the recommended duration for community outbreak (seasonal/pre-exposure) prophylaxis is up to 6 weeks (or up to 12 weeks in immunocompromised patients). Mild (>60-90 mL/minute) 75 mg twice daily for 5 days 75 mg once daily Moderate (>30-60 mL/minute) 30 mg twice daily for 5 days 30 mg once daily Severe (>10-30 mL/minute) 30 mg once daily for 5 days 30 mg every other day ESRD Patients on Hemodialysis (≤10 mL/minute) 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after every hemodialysis cycle (treatment duration not to exceed 5 days) 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after alternate hemodialysis cycles ESRD Patients on Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis Data derived from studies in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients. Table 3 Emergency Preparation: Volume of Prepared Oral Suspension (6 mg per mL) Based Upon Oseltamivir Phosphate Capsules Dose Oseltamivir Phosphate Dose If the oseltamivir phosphate dose is between the doses listed, use the greater listed dose to determine the total volume of prepared oral suspension. Total Volume to Prepare per Patient (mL) 15 mg or less 37.5 mL 30 mg 75 mL 45 mg 100 mL 60 mg 125 mL 75 mg 150 mL Step #2: Preparation must be performed with only one of the following vehicles (other vehicles have not been studied): Cherry Syrup (Humco®), Ora- Sweet® SF (sugar-free)(Paddock Laboratories), or simple syrup. Table 4 Emergency Preparation: Number of Oseltamivir Phosphate 75 mg Capsules and Amount of Water and Vehicle Needed to Prepare the Total Volume of a Prepared Oral Suspension (6 mg per mL) Total Volume of Prepared Oral Suspension 37.5 mL 75 mL 100 mL 125 mL 150 mL Number of Oseltamivir Phosphate 75 mg Capsules (Total Strength) Includes overage to ensure all doses can be delivered 3 (225 mg) 6 (450 mg) 8 (600 mg) 10 (750 mg) 12 (900 mg) Amount of Water 2.5 mL 5 mL 7 mL 8 mL 10 mL Volume of Vehicle Cherry Syrup (Humco® ) OR Ora-Sweet® SF (Paddock Laboratories) OR simple syrup 34.5 mL 69 mL 91 mL 115 mL 137 mL Step #3: Follow the instructions below for preparing the 75 mg oseltamivir phosphate capsules to produce the oral suspension (6 mg per mL): Place the specified amount of water into a polyethyleneterephthalate (PET) or glass bottle (see Table 4). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Treatment of influenza Adults and adolescents (13 years and older): 75 mg twice daily for 5 days ( 2.2 ) Pediatric patients 1 to 12 years of age: Based on weight twice daily for 5 days ( 2.2 ) Pediatric patients 2 weeks to less than 1 year of age: 3 mg/kg twice daily for 5 days ( 2.2 ) Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >30 to 60 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg twice daily for 5 days ( 2.4 ) Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >10 to 30 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once daily for 5 days ( 2.4 ) ESRD patients on hemodialysis: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after every hemodialysis cycle. Treatment duration not to exceed 5 days ( 2.4 ) ESRD patients on CAPD: Reduce to a single 30 mg dose immediately ( 2.4 ) Prophylaxis of influenza Adults and adolescents (13 years and older): 75 mg once daily for at least 10 days ( 2.3 ) Community outbreak: 75 mg once daily for up to 6 weeks ( 2.3 ) Pediatric patients 1 to 12 years of age: Based on weight once daily for 10 days ( 2.3 ) Community outbreak: Based on weight once daily for up to 6 weeks ( 2.3 ) Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >30 to 60 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once daily ( 2.4 ) Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >10 to 30 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once every other day ( 2.4 ) ESRD patients on hemodialysis: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after alternate hemodialysis cycles for the recommended duration of prophylaxis ( 2.4 ) ESRD patients on CAPD: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg once weekly for the recommended duration of prophylaxis ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Dosage and Administration Overview Administer Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension for the treatment of influenza in patients 2 weeks of age or older [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )] or for prophylaxis of influenza in patients 1 year and older [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] using: Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension (supplied as a powder). Prior to use, the supplied Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension powder must be constituted with water by the pharmacist to produce the oral suspension [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )] . Adjust the Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension dosage in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )] . Adults and Adolescents (13 years of age and older) The recommended dosage of Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension for prophylaxis of influenza in adults and adolescents 13 years and older is 75 mg orally once daily (one 75 mg capsule or 12.5 mL of oral suspension once daily) for at least 10 days following close contact with an infected individual and up to 6 weeks during a community outbreak. In immunocompromised patients, Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension may be continued for up to 12 weeks [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.9 )] . Prophylaxis in pediatric patients is recommended for 10 days following close contact with an infected individual and up to 6 weeks during a community outbreak [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . Table 1 Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension Dosage Recommendations in Pediatric Patients for Treatment and Prophylaxis of Influenza Weight Treatment Dosage for 5 days Prophylaxis Dosage for 10 days* Volume of Oral Suspension (6 mg/mL) for each Dose † Number of Bottles of Oral Suspension to Dispense *The recommended duration for post-exposure prophylaxis is 10 days and the recommended duration for community outbreak (seasonal/pre-exposure) prophylaxis is up to 6 weeks (or up to 12 weeks in immunocompromised patients). The amount supplied (e.g., number of bottles) for seasonal prophylaxis may be greater than for post-exposure prophylaxis. †Use an oral dosing dispensing device that measures the appropriate volume in mL with the oral suspension. ‡For patients less than 1 year of age, provide an appropriate dosing device that can accurately measure and administer small volumes. Patients from 2 Weeks to less than 1 Year of Age Any weight 3 mg/kg twice daily Not applicable 0.5 mL/kg ‡ 1 bottle Patients 1 to 12 Years of Age Based on Body Weight 15 kg or less 30 mg twice daily 30 mg once daily 5 mL 1 bottle 15.1 kg to 23 kg 45 mg twice daily 45 mg once daily 7.5 mL 2 bottles 23.1 kg to 40 kg 60 mg twice daily 60 mg once daily 10 mL 2 bottles 40.1 kg or more 75 mg twice daily 75 mg once daily 12.5 mL 3 bottles 2.4 Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment Table 2 displays the dosage recommendations for the treatment and prophylaxis of influenza in adults with various stages of renal impairment (estimated creatinine clearance of less than or equal to 90 mL per minute). Dosage modifications are recommended in adults with an estimated creatinine clearance less than or equal to 60 mL per minute [see Use in Specific Population ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 2 Recommended Dosage Modifications for Treatment and Prophylaxis of Influenza in Adults with Renal Impairment or End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) on Dialysis Renal Impairment (Creatinine Clearance) Recommended Treatment Regimen* Recommended Prophylaxis Regimen† *Oral suspension can be used for 30 mg dosing. †The recommended duration for post-exposure prophylaxis is at least 10 days and the recommended duration for community outbreak (seasonal/pre-exposure) prophylaxis is up to 6 weeks (or up to 12 weeks in immunocompromised patients). ‡Data derived from studies in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients. Mild (>60 to 90 mL/minute) 75 mg twice daily for 5 days 75 mg once daily Moderate (>30 to 60 mL/minute) 30 mg twice daily for 5 days 30 mg once daily Severe (>10 to 30 mL/minute) 30 mg once daily for 5 days 30 mg every other day ESRD Patients on Hemodialysis (≤10 mL/minute) 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after every hemodialysis cycle (treatment duration not to exceed 5 days) 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after alternate hemodialysis cycles ESRD Patients on Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis‡ (≤10 mL/minute) A single 30 mg dose administered immediately 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg once weekly ESRD Patients not on Dialysis Oseltamivir phosphate is not recommended Oseltamivir phosphate is not recommended 2.5 Preparation and Storage of Constituted Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension Prior to dispensing to the patient, constitute Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension (supplied as powder): a) Tap the closed bottle containing the supplied Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension white powder several times to loosen the powder. f) The constituted oral suspension contains 360 mg of Oseltamivir base per 60 mL of volume (6 mg per mL) and is white, tutti-frutti–flavored. 2.1 Dosage and Administration Overview Administer Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension for the treatment of influenza in patients 2 weeks of age or older [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )] or for prophylaxis of influenza in patients 1 year and older [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] using: Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension (supplied as a powder). Patients from 2 Weeks to less than 1 Year of Age Any weight 3 mg/kg twice daily Not applicable 0.5 mL/kg ‡ 1 bottle Patients 1 to 12 Years of Age Based on Body Weight 15 kg or less 30 mg twice daily 30 mg once daily 5 mL 1 bottle 15.1 kg to 23 kg 45 mg twice daily 45 mg once daily 7.5 mL 2 bottles 23.1 kg to 40 kg 60 mg twice daily 60 mg once daily 10 mL 2 bottles 40.1 kg or more 75 mg twice daily 75 mg once daily 12.5 mL 3 bottles Mild (>60 to 90 mL/minute) 75 mg twice daily for 5 days 75 mg once daily Moderate (>30 to 60 mL/minute) 30 mg twice daily for 5 days 30 mg once daily Severe (>10 to 30 mL/minute) 30 mg once daily for 5 days 30 mg every other day ESRD Patients on Hemodialysis (≤10 mL/minute) 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after every hemodialysis cycle (treatment duration not to exceed 5 days) 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after alternate hemodialysis cycles ESRD Patients on Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis‡ (≤10 mL/minute) A single 30 mg dose administered immediately 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg once weekly ESRD Patients not on Dialysis Oseltamivir phosphate is not recommended Oseltamivir phosphate is not recommended 2.5 Preparation and Storage of Constituted Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension Prior to dispensing to the patient, constitute Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension (supplied as powder): a) Tap the closed bottle containing the supplied Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension white powder several times to loosen the powder. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Treatment of influenza • Adults and adolescents (13 years and older): 75 mg twice daily for 5 days ( 2.2 ) • Pediatric patients 1 to 12 years of age: Based on weight twice daily for 5 days ( 2.2 ) • Pediatric patients 2 weeks to less than 1 year of age: 3mg/kg twice daily for 5 days ( 2.2 ) • Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >30‐60 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg twice daily for 5 days ( 2.4 ) • Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >10‐30 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once daily for 5 days ( 2.4 ) • ESRD patients on hemodialysis: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after every hemodialysis cycle. Treatment duration not to exceed 5 days ( 2.4 ) • ESRD patients on CAPD: Reduce to a single 30 mg dose immediately ( 2.4 ) Prophylaxis of influenza • Adults and adolescents (13 years and older): 75 mg once daily for at least 10 days ( 2.3 ) - Community outbreak: 75 mg once daily for up to 6 weeks ( 2.3 ) • Pediatric patients 1 to 12 years of age: Based on weight once daily for 10 days ( 2.3 ) - Community outbreak: Based on weight once daily for up to 6 weeks ( 2.3 ) • Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >30‐60 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once daily ( 2.4 ) • Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance >10‐30 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once every other day ( 2. 4) • ESRD patients on hemodialysis: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after alternate hemodialysis cycles for the recommended duration of prophylaxis ( 2.4 ) • ESRD patients on CAPD: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg once weekly for the recommended duration of prophylaxis ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Dosage and Administration Overview Administer oseltamivir phosphate capsules for the treatment of influenza in patients 2 weeks of age or older [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] or for prophylaxis of influenza in patients 1 year and older [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] using: • Oseltamivir phosphate capsules or • Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension (supplied as a powder). The capsules may be taken with or without food; however, tolerability may be enhanced if oseltamivir phosphate is taken with food. When oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is not available from wholesaler or the manufacturer, oseltamivir phosphate capsules may be opened and mixed with sweetened liquids such as regular or sugar‐free chocolate syrup, corn syrup, caramel topping, or light brown sugar (dissolved in water). During emergency situations and when neither the oral suspension or the age‐appropriate strengths of oseltamivir phosphate capsules to mix with sweetened liquids are available, then a pharmacist may prepare an emergency supply of oral suspension from oseltamivir phosphate 75 mg capsules [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ]. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Treatment of Influenza Initiate treatment with oseltamivir phosphate within 48 hours of influenza symptom onset. Adults and Adolescents (13 years of age and older) The recommended oral dosage of oseltamivir phosphate for treatment of influenza in adults and adolescents 13 years and older is 75 mg twice daily (one 75 mg capsule or 12.5 mL of oral suspension twice daily) for 5 days. 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Prophylaxis of Influenza Initiate post‐exposure prophylaxis with oseltamivir phosphate within 48 hours following close contact with an infected individual. Initiate seasonal prophylaxis with oseltamivir phosphate during a community outbreak. Adults and Adolescents (13 years of age and older) The recommended dosage of oseltamivir phosphate for prophylaxis of influenza in adults and adolescents 13 years and older is 75 mg orally once daily (one 75 mg capsule or 12.5 mL of oral suspension once daily) for at least 10 days following close contact with an infected individual and up to 6 weeks during a community outbreak. In immunocompromised patients, oseltamivir phosphate may be continued for up to 12 weeks [see Use in Specific Populations (8.9) ]. The duration of protection lasts for as long as oseltamivir phosphate dosing is continued. Prophylaxis in pediatric patients is recommended for 10 days following close contact with an infected individual and up to 6 weeks during a community outbreak [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Table 1 Oseltamivir Phosphate Capsules Dosage Recommendations in Pediatric Patients for Treatment and Prophylaxis of Influenza Weight Treatment Dosage for 5 days Prophylaxis Dosage for 10 days* Volume of Oral Suspension (6 mg/mL) for each Dose † Number of Bottles of Oral Suspension to Dispense Number of Capsules to Dispense (Strength) ‡ Patients from 2 Weeks to less than 1 Year of Age Any weight 3 mg/kg twice daily Not applicable 0.5 mL/kg § 1 bottle Not applicable Patients 1 to 12 Years of Age Based on Body Weight 15 kg or less 30 mg twice daily 30 mg once daily 5 mL 1 bottle 10 capsules (30 mg) 15.1 kg to 23 kg 45 mg twice daily 45 mg once daily 7.5 mL 2 bottles 10 capsules (45 mg) 23.1 kg to 40 kg 60 mg twice daily 60 mg once daily 10 mL 2 bottles 20 capsules (30 mg) 40.1 kg or more 75 mg twice daily 75 mg once daily 12.5 mL 3 bottles 10 capsules (75 mg) * The recommended duration for post‐exposure prophylaxis is 10 days and the recommended duration for community outbreak (seasonal/pre‐exposure) prophylaxis is up to 6 weeks (or up to 12 weeks in immunocompromised patients). The amount supplied (e.g., number of bottles or capsules) for seasonal prophylaxis may be greater than for post‐exposure prophylaxis. Dosage modifications are recommended in adults with an estimated creatinine clearance less than or equal to 60 mL per minute [see Use in Specific Population (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 2 Recommended Dosage Modifications for Treatment and Prophylaxis of Influenza in Adults with Renal Impairment or End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) on Dialysis Renal Impairment (Creatinine Clearance) Recommended Treatment Regimen * Recommended Prophylaxis Regimen *† Mild (>60‐90 mL/minute) 75 mg twice daily for 5 days 75 mg once daily Moderate (>30‐60 mL/minute) 30 mg twice daily for 5 days 30 mg once daily Severe (>10‐30 mL/minute) 30 mg once daily for 5 days 30 mg every other day ESRD Patients on Hemodialysis (≤ 10 mL/minute) 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after every hemodialysis cycle (treatment duration not to exceed 5 days) 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after alternate hemodialysis cycles ESRD Patients on Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis‡ (≤10 mL/minute) A single 30 mg dose administered immediately 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg once weekly ESRD Patients not on Dialysis Oseltamivir phosphate is not recommended Oseltamivir phosphate is not recommended * Capsules or oral suspension can be used for 30 mg dosing. † The recommended duration for post‐exposure prophylaxis is at least 10 days and the recommended duration for community outbreak (seasonal/pre‐exposure) prophylaxis is up to 6 weeks (or up to 12 weeks in immunocompromised patients). 2.6 Emergency Preparation of Oral Suspension from 75 mg Oseltamivir Phosphate Capsules The following directions are provided for use only during emergency situations and when FDA‐approved, commercially manufactured oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is not available from wholesalers or the manufacturer. The following emergency preparation instructions will provide one patient with enough oseltamivir phosphate for a 5‐day course of treatment of influenza or a 10-day course of prophylaxis of influenza: Step #1: Determine the dosage of oseltamivir phosphate for the patient [see Dosage and Administration (2.2 , 2.3 , and 2.4 )] then determine the total volume of oral suspension needed to be prepared (see Table 3). Step #2: Preparation must be performed with only one of the following vehicles (other vehicles have not been studied): Cherry Syrup (Humco ), Ora-Sweet SF (sugar-free) (Paddock Laboratories), or simple syrup. Table 4 Emergency Preparation: Number of Oseltamivir Phosphate 75 mg Capsules and Amount of Water and Vehicle Needed to Prepare the Total Volume of a Prepared Oral Sus pens ion (6 mg per mL) Total Volume of Prepared Oral Suspension 37.5 mL 75 mL 100 mL 125 mL 150 mL Number of Oseltamivir Phosphate Capsules 75 mg (Total Strength)* 3 (225 mg) 6 (450 mg) 8 (600 mg) 10 (750 mg) 12 (900 mg) Amount of Water 2.5 mL 5 mL 7 mL 8 mL 10 mL Volume of Vehicle Cherry Syrup (Humco ® ) OR Ora‐Sweet ® SF (Paddock Laboratories) OR simple syrup 34.5 mL 69 mL 91 mL 115 mL 137 mL *Includes overage to ensure all doses can be delivered Step #3: Follow the instructions below for preparing the 75 mg oseltamivir phosphate capsules to produce the oral suspension (6 mg per mL): a. Put an ancillary label on the bottle indicating "Shake Well Before Use." g. Include the recommended dosage on the pharmacy label as per Tables 1 and 2 [see Dosage and Administration (2.2 , 2.3 , and 2.4 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Treatment of influenza • Adults and adolescents (13 years and older): 75 mg twice daily for 5 days () • Pediatric patients 1 to 12 years of age: Based on weight twice daily for 5 days () • Pediatric patients 2 weeks to less than 1 year of age: 3mg/kg twice daily for 5 days () • Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance greater than 30 to 60 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg twice daily for 5 days () • Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance greater than 10 to 30 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once daily for 5 days () • ESRD patients on hemodialysis: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after every hemodialysis cycle. Treatment duration not to exceed 5 days () • ESRD patients on CAPD: Reduce to a single 30 mg dose immediately () Prophylaxis of influenza • Adults and adolescents (13 years and older): 75 mg once daily for at least 10 days () - Community outbreak: 75 mg once daily for up to 6 weeks () • Pediatric patients 1 to 12 years of age: Based on weight once daily for 10 days () - Community outbreak: Based on weight once daily for up to 6 weeks () • Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance greater than 30 to 60 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once daily () • Renally impaired adult patients (creatinine clearance greater than 10 to 30 mL/min): Reduce to 30 mg once every other day () • ESRD patients on hemodialysis: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after alternate hemodialysis cycles for the recommended duration of prophylaxis () • ESRD patients on CAPD: Reduce to 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg once weekly for the recommended duration of prophylaxis () 2.1 Dosage and Administration Overview Administer oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension for the treatment of influenza in patients 2 weeks of age or older [see Dosage and Administration ( )] or for prophylaxis of influenza in patients 1 year and older [see Dosage and Administration ( )] using: • Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension (supplied as a powder). Prior to use, the supplied oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension powder must be constituted with water by the pharmacist to produce the oral suspension [see Dosage and Administration ( )]. Adjust the oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension dosage in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment [see Dosage and Administration ( )]. In immunocompromised patients, oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension may be continued for up to 12 weeks [see Use in Specific Populations ( )]. Prophylaxis in pediatric patients is recommended for 10 days following close contact with an infected individual and up to 6 weeks during a community outbreak [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. Table 1: Oseltamivir Phosphate Dosage Recommendations in Pediatric Patients for Treatment and Prophylaxis of Influenza * The recommended duration for post-exposure prophylaxis is 10 days and the recommended duration for community outbreak (seasonal/pre-exposure) prophylaxis is up to 6 weeks (or up to 12 weeks in immunocompromised patients). Weight Treatment Dosage for 5 days Prophylaxis Dosage for 10 days* Volume of Oral Suspension (6 mg/mL) for each Dose † Number of Bottles of Oral Suspension to Dispense Patients from 2 Weeks to less than 1 Year of Age Any weight 3 mg/kg twice daily Not applicable 0.5 mL/kg § 1 bottle Patients 1 to 12 Years of Age Based on Body Weight 15 kg or less 30 mg twice daily 30 mg once daily 5 mL 1 bottle 15.1 kg to 23 kg 45 mg twice daily 45 mg once daily 7.5 mL 2 bottles 23.1 kg to 40 kg 60 mg twice daily 60 mg once daily 10 mL 2 bottles 40.1 kg or more 75 mg twice daily 75 mg once daily 12.5 mL 3 bottles 2.4 Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment Table 2 displays the dosage recommendations for the treatment and prophylaxis of influenza in adults with various stages of renal impairment (estimated creatinine clearance of less than or equal to 90 mL per minute). Dosage modifications are recommended in adults with an estimated creatinine clearance less than or equal to 60 mL per minute [see Use in Specific Population ( ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( )]. Table 2: Recommended Dosage Modifications for Treatment and Prophylaxis of Influenza in Adults with Renal Impairment or End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) on Dialysis * Oral suspension can be used for 30 mg dosing. Renal Impairment (Creatinine Clearance) Recommended Treatment Regimen* Recommended Prophylaxis Regimen* † Mild (>60-90 mL/minute) 75 mg twice daily for 5 days 75 mg once daily Moderate (>30-60 mL/minute) 30 mg twice daily for 5 days 30 mg once daily Severe (>10-30 mL/minute) 30 mg once daily for 5 days 30 mg every other day ESRD Patients on Hemodialysis (≤10 mL/minute) 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after every hemodialysis cycle (treatment duration not to exceed 5 days) 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg after alternate hemodialysis cycles ESRD Patients on Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis ‡ (≤10 mL/minute) A single 30 mg dose administered immediately 30 mg immediately and then 30 mg once weekly ESRD Patients not on Dialysis Oseltamivir Phosphate for oral suspension is not recommended Oseltamivir Phosphatefor oral suspension is not recommended 2.5 Preparation and Storage of Constituted Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension Prior to dispensing to the patient, constitute Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension (supplied as powder): a) Tap the closed bottle containing the supplied Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension white powder several times to loosen the powder. f) The constituted oral suspension contains 360 mg of oseltamivir base per 60 mL of volume (6 mg per mL) and is white, tutti-frutti–flavored).
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension is contraindicated in patients with known serious hypersensitivity to oseltamivir or any component of the product. Severe allergic reactions have included anaphylaxis and serious skin reactions including toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, and erythema multiforme [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Patients with known serious hypersensitivity to oseltamivir or any of the components of oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Oseltamivir phosphate capsules are contraindicated in patients with known serious hypersensitivity to oseltamivir or any component of the product. Severe allergic reactions have included anaphylaxis and serious skin reactions including toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, and erythema multiforme [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Patients with known serious hypersensitivity to oseltamivir or any of the components of oseltamivir phosphate capsules (4) Patients with known serious hypersensitivity to oseltamivir or any of the components of oseltamivir phosphate capsules ( 4 ) Severe allergic reactions have included anaphylaxis and serious skin reactions including toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens‐Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Severe allergic reactions have included anaphylaxis and serious skin reactions including toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, and erythema multiforme [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Severe allergic reactions have included anaphylaxis and serious skin reactions including toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, and erythema multiforme [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients with known serious hypersensitivity to oseltamivir or any of the components of oseltamivir phosphate capsules ( 4 ) Oseltamivir phosphate capsules are contraindicated in patients with known serious hypersensitivity to oseltamivir or any component of the product. Severe allergic reactions have included anaphylaxis and serious skin reactions including toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens‐Johnson Syndrome, and erythema multiforme [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 )]. Severe allergic reactions have included anaphylaxis and serious skin reactions including toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens - Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme [see Warnings and Precautions ( )].
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Live attenuated influenza vaccine (LAIV), intranasal: Avoid administration of LAIV within 2 weeks before or 48 hours after oseltamivir phosphate for oral suspension use, unless medically indicated. ( 7 ) 7.1 Influenza Vaccines Live Attenuated Influenza Vaccine The concurrent use of oseltamivir phosphate with live attenuated influenza vaccine (LAIV) intranasal has not been evaluated. However, because of the potential for oseltamivir phosphate to inhibit replication of live vaccine virus and possibly reduce the efficacy of LAIV, avoid administration of LAIV within 2 weeks before or 48 hours after oseltamivir phosphate administration, unless medically indicated. Inactivated Influenza Vaccine Inactivated influenza vaccine can be administered at any time relative to use of oseltamivir phosphate. 7.2 Drugs Without Clinically Significant Drug Interaction with Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension No dose adjustments are needed for either oseltamivir or the concomitant drug when coadministering oseltamivir with amoxicillin, acetaminophen, aspirin, cimetidine, antacids (magnesium and aluminum hydroxides and calcium carbonates), rimantadine, amantadine, or warfarin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Live attenuated influenza vaccine (LAIV), intranasal: Avoid administration of LAIV within 2 weeks before or 48 hours after oseltamivir phosphate capsules use, unless medically indicated. (7) 7.1 Influenza Vaccines Live Attenuated Influenza Vaccine The concurrent use of oseltamivir phosphate with live attenuated influenza vaccine (LAIV) intranasal has not been evaluated. However, because of the potential for oseltamivir phosphate to inhibit replication of live vaccine virus and possibly reduce the efficacy of LAIV, avoid administration of LAIV within 2 weeks before or 48 hours after oseltamivir phosphate capsules administration, unless medically indicated. 7.2 Drugs Without Clinically Significant Drug Interaction with Oseltamivir Phosphate Capsules No dose adjustments are needed for either oseltamivir or the concomitant drug when coadministering oseltamivir with amoxicillin, acetaminophen, aspirin, cimetidine, antacids (magnesium and aluminum hydroxides and calcium carbonates), rimantadine, amantadine, or warfarin [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)]. ( 7 ) 7.1 Influenza Vaccines Live Attenuated Influenza Vaccine The concurrent use of oseltamivir phosphate capsules with live attenuated influenza vaccine (LAIV) intranasal has not been evaluated. Inactivated Influenza Vaccine Inactivated influenza vaccine can be administered at any time relative to use of oseltamivir phosphate capsules. 7.2 Drugs Without Clinically Significant Drug Interaction with Oseltamivir Phosphate No dose adjustments are needed for either oseltamivir or the concomitant drug when coadministering oseltamivir with amoxicillin, acetaminophen, aspirin, cimetidine, antacids (magnesium and aluminum hydroxides and calcium carbonates), rimantadine, amantadine, or warfarin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Live attenuated influenza vaccine (LAIV), intranasal: Avoid administration of LAIV within 2 weeks before or 48 hours after oseltamivir phosphate use, unless medically indicated. However, because of the potential for oseltamivir phosphate capsules to inhibit replication of live vaccine virus and possibly reduce the efficacy of LAIV, avoid administration of LAIV within 2 weeks before or 48 hours after oseltamivir phosphate capsules administration, unless medically indicated. 7.2 Drugs Without Clinically Significant Drug Interaction with Oseltamivir Phosphate Capsules No dose adjustments are needed for either oseltamivir or the concomitant drug when coadministering oseltamivir with amoxicillin, acetaminophen, aspirin, cimetidine, antacids (magnesium and aluminum hydroxides and calcium carbonates), rimantadine, amantadine, or warfarin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Live attenuated influenza vaccine (LAIV), intranasal: Avoid administration of LAIV within 2 weeks before or 48 hours after oseltamivir phosphate capsules, use, unless medically indicated. (7) 7.1 Influenza Vaccines Live Attenuated Influenza Vaccine The concurrent use of oseltamivir phosphate capsules with live attenuated influenza vaccine (LAIV) intranasal has not been evaluated. 7.2 Drugs Without Clinically Significant Drug Interaction with Oseltamivir Phosphate Capsules No dose adjustments are needed for either oseltamivir or the concomitant drug when coadministering oseltamivir with amoxicillin, acetaminophen, aspirin, cimetidine, antacids (magnesium and aluminum hydroxides and calcium carbonates), rimantadine, amantadine, or warfarin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . However, because of the potential for oseltamivir phosphate capsules to inhibit replication of live vaccine virus and possibly reduce the efficacy of LAIV, avoid administration of LAIV within 2 weeks before or 48 hours after oseltamivir phosphate capsules administration, unless medically indicated.. 7.2 Drugs Without Clinically Significant Drug Interaction with Oseltamivir Phosphate Capsules No dose adjustments are needed for either oseltamivir or the concomitant drug when coadministering oseltamivir with amoxicillin, acetaminophen, aspirin, cimetidine, antacids (magnesium and aluminum hydroxides and calcium carbonates), rimantadine, amantadine, or warfarin [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 Drugs Without Clinically Significant Drug Interaction with Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension No dose adjustments are needed for either Oseltamivir or the concomitant drug when coadministering Oseltamivir with amoxicillin, acetaminophen, aspirin, cimetidine, antacids (magnesium and aluminum hydroxides and calcium carbonates), rimantadine, amantadine, or warfarin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.1 Influenza Vaccines Live Attenuated Influenza Vaccine The concurrent use of Oseltamivir Phosphate with live attenuated influenza vaccine (LAIV) intranasal has not been evaluated. 7.2 Drugs Without Clinically Significant Drug Interaction with Oseltamivir Phosphate No dose adjustments are needed for either oseltamivir or the concomitant drug when co-administering oseltamivir with amoxicillin, acetaminophen, aspirin, cimetidine, antacids (magnesium and aluminum hydroxides and calcium carbonates), rimantadine, amantadine, or warfarin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 Drugs Without Clinically Significant Drug Interaction with Oseltamivir Phosphate for Oral Suspension No dose adjustments are needed for either oseltamivir or the concomitant drug when coadministering oseltamivir with amoxicillin, acetaminophen, aspirin, cimetidine, antacids (magnesium and aluminum hydroxides and calcium carbonates), rimantadine, amantadine, or warfarin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( )]

=== UNSPECIFIED FORM ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Menthol - Topical analgesic Methyl salicylate - Topical analgesic Purpose Pain Relieving Spray Active Ingredients Purpose Methyl Salicylate 15% Topical Analgesic Menthol 5% Topical Analgesic Camphor 3% Topical Analgesic OTC - PURPOSE SECTION Formulated for symptoms associated with food and environmental allergens such as congestion, swollen glands, runny nose, cough, rashes and stomach upset. *Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. Not FDA evaluated. Purpose Camphor - Cough suppressant & topical analgesic Eucalyptus oil - Cough suppressant Menthol - Cough suppressant & topical analgesic Active Ingredients Purpose Camphor 11% Topical Analgesic Menthol 10% Topical Analgesic Purpose Antigingivitis, Antiplaque
Indications: Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to arthritis simple backache strains sprains Uses Temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with: simple backache arthritis strains bruises sprains Uses For temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with simple backache, arthritis, bruises, strains and sprains. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ANTICOAGULANT CITRATE DEXTROSE SOLUTION USP (ACD) SOLUTION A is an anticoagulant intended for use only with devices that prepare Platelet Rich Plasma (PRP) products for extracorporeal use. [See Dosage and Administration (2) .] ANTICOAGULANT CITRATE DEXTROSE SOLUTION USP (ACD) SOLUTION A is an anticoagulant intended for use only with devices that prepare Platelet Rich Plasma (PRP) products for extracorporeal use. See the device operator's manual for additional information and complete usage instructions. ( 1 ) INDICATIONS & USAGE SECTION Formulated for symptoms associated with food and environmental allergens such as congestion, swollen glands, runny nose, cough, rashes and stomach upset. INDICATIONS Temporarily relieves fear, worry, dread, lack of courage, shame, self-reproach, anxiousness, unworthiness, or irritability.* Uses when applied to chest and throat, temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation associated with the common cold when applied to muscles and joints, temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints Uses For temporary relief of minor aches and pains of neck and shoulder muscles. Use helps control plaque that leads to gingivitis
Dosage: Directions adults and children 12 years and over: apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older: spray on to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily; massage not necessary children under 12 years of age: consult a physician wash hands after use with cool water Directions For adults and children over 12 years of age, rub well on the affected area. Repeat 3 to 4 times daily For children 12 years of age or younger, consult a doctor before use. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ANTICOAGULANT CITRATE DEXTROSE SOLUTION USP (ACD) SOLUTION A is added to blood products collected for extracorporeal processing. ( 2 ) ANTICOAGULANT CITRATE DEXTROSE SOLUTION USP (ACD) SOLUTION A may only be used with devices that prepare Platelet Rich Plasma (PRP) products for extracorporeal use. For instructions on the use of the solution see the device operator's manual. ( 2.1 ) Follow the directions for drawing ANTICOAGULANT CITRATE DEXTROSE SOLUTION USP (ACD) SOLUTION A into a syringe for further processing of the collected blood product. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 General Dosing Information ANTICOAGULANT CITRATE DEXTROSE SOLUTION USP (ACD) SOLUTION A is added to blood products collected for extracorporeal processing. The solution is manually added to collected blood products to facilitate extracorporeal processing. The amount of solution added is specified by the manufacturer of the processing set. It is not intended for direct intravenous infusion. For instructions on the use of the solution with the processing set, see the device operator's manual. 2.2 Administration Ensure solution is the ANTICOAGULANT CITRATE DEXTROSE SOLUTION USP (ACD) SOLUTION A and is within the expiration date. Inspect the solution bag. Do not use if the solution bag is damaged, leaking or if there is any visible sign of deterioration. Use only if solution is clear and free of particulate matter. Protect from sharp objects. Directions for drawing the ANTICOAGULANT CITRATE DEXTROSE SOLUTION USP (ACD) SOLUTION A from the solution bag. When directed by the processing set instructions and device operator's manual: Open the foil pouch containing the solution by finding the notch in the foil overwrap and pulling down to present the clear overwrapped solution bag. Open the clear overwrap material by holding the peelable tabs between your thumb and forefinger. Gently pull the peelable tabs along the top to open the overwrap at both corners. Once both corners are opened, gently peel along the length of the overwrap. Do not place the ANTICOAGULANT CITRATE DEXTROSE SOLUTION USP (ACD) SOLUTION A solution bag into the sterile field. The clear overwrap is not considered a sterile barrier. Before use, perform the following checks [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ] : Check for leaks by gently squeezing the bag. If leaks are found, discard the solution bag. Ensure that the solution is the ANTICOAGULANT CITRATE DEXTROSE SOLUTION USP (ACD) SOLUTION A and is within the expiration date. Inspect the solution in adequate light. Solution showing cloudiness, haze, or particulate matter should not be used. Aseptically prepare the Needleless Access Valve (NAV). Using an appropriate syringe and luer, connect to the NAV. Draw into the syringe the amount of ANTICOAGULANT CITRATE DEXTROSE SOLUTION USP (ACD) SOLUTION A required by the processing set instructions and device operator's manual. Remove the syringe from the NAV and proceed according to the processing set instructions and device operator's manual. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and solution bag permit. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION Directions: Ages 12 and up take 6 drops by mouth (ages 0 to 11, give 3 drops) as needed or directed by a health professional. Sensitive persons begin with 1 drop and gradually increase to full dose. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION Directions: Ages 12 and up take 6 pellets (ages 0 to 11, give 3 pellets) as needed or directed by a health professional. Under age 2, crush/dissolve pellets in purified water. Sensitive persons begin with 1 pellet and gradually increase to full dose. DIRECTIONS Place drops under tongue 30 minutes before/after meals. Adults and children 12 years and over: Take 5 drops up to 4 times per day for up to one month. Consult a physician for use in children under 12 years of age. Directions see important warnings under "When using this product" adults and children 2 years and over: for cough suppression rub a thick layer on the throat and chest cover with a warm, dry cloth if desired keep clothing loose about throat and chest to help vapors reach the nose and mouth use up to three times daily or as directed by a doctor for muscle/joint minor aches and pains apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 2 years: do not use Directions For adults and children over 12 years, rub well on the affected area Repeat 3 to 4 times daily For children 12 years of age or younger, consult a doctor before use. Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL (2/3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls) between teeth twice a day for 30 seconds then spit out children under 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing
Warnings: Warnings For external use only When using this product use only as directed do not get into eyes or on mucous membranes do not apply to wounds or to damaged skin do not bandage tightly do not use with a heating pad, other heat sources, or right after a shower/bath do not use in combination with other external analgesic products Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens excessive irritation, burning or discomfort of the skin develops symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Warnings For external use only. Flammable: Keep away from excessive heat or open flame Contents under pressure. Do not puncture or incinerate. Do not store at temperature above 120°F. When using this product use only as directed avoid contact with the eyes or on mucous membranes do not apply to wounds or damaged skin do not apply to irritated skin or if excessive irritation develops do not bandage tightly or use with heating pad or device Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience pain, swelling or blistering of the skin condition worsens, or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days arthritic pain persists for more than 10 days, or redness is present If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. When using this product Use only as directed Avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes Do not apply to wounds, damaged or irritated skin Do not bandage or cover with wrap or use heating pad Do not use 1 hour prior to bathing or within 30 minutes after bathing. Stop use and ask a doctor if Condition worsens Severe skin irritation occurs Pain persists for more than 7 days, or redness is present Pain clears up and then recurs a few days later. If pregnant or breast-feeding, or if you have sensitive skin, ask a healthcare professional before use. Keep out of reach of children to avoid accidental poisoning. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. WARNINGS SECTION WARNINGS: Keep out of reach of children. Do not use if tamper-evident seal is broken or missing. If symptoms worsen or persist for more than a few days, consult a doctor. If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a doctor before use. WARNINGS In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a poison control center right away. Keep out of the reach of children. If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a healthcare professional before use. Warnings For external use only; avoid contact with eyes Do not use by mouth in nostrils on wounds or damaged skin with tight bandages Ask a doctor before use if you have cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, or emphysema When using this product, do not heat microwave add to hot water or any container where heating water. May cause splattering and result in burns. Stop use and ask a doctor if muscle aches and pains worsen or persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days. cough persists for more than 1 week, tends to recur, or is accompanied by a fever, rash, or persistent headache. A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings For external use only When using this product Use only as directed Avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes Do not apply to wounds, damaged or irritated skin Do not bandage or cover with wrap or use heating pad Do not use 1 hour prior to bathing or within 30 minutes after bathing. Stop use and ask a doctor if Condition worsens Severe skin irritation occurs Pain persists for more than 7 days Pain clears up and then recurs a few days later. If pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you have sensitive skin, ask a healthcare professional before use. California WARNING: This product can expose you to chemicals including diethanolamine (DEA), which is known to the State of California to cause cancer. For more information go to www.P65Warnings.ca.gov. Image Warnings for this product
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS NOT FOR PREPARATION OF BLOOD PRODUCTS FOR TRANSFUSION OR FOR DIRECT INTRAVENOUS INFUSION. NOT FOR PREPARATION OF BLOOD PRODUCTS FOR TRANSFUSION OR FOR DIRECT INTRAVENOUS INFUSION. ( 4 )

=== ALUMINUM SESQUICHLOROHYDRATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose antiperspirant
Indications: Uses • reduces underarm wetness Use Reduces underarm wetness. Uses reduces underarm wetness
Dosage: Directions apply to underarms only Directions Apply to underams only.
Warnings: Warnings • FLAMMABLE. DO NOT USE NEAR HEAT, FLAME, OR WHILE SMOKING. CAN CAUSE SERIOUS INJURY OR DEATH • Keep away from face and mouth to avoid breathing in. • Avoid spraying in eyes. Contents under pressure. Do not puncture or incinerate. Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120°F/50°C or in enclosed places that could overheat • Do not use on broken skin. Stop use if rash or irritation occurs. • Ask a doctor before using if you have kidney disease. • USE ONLY AS DIRECTED. INTENTIONAL MISUSE BY DELIBERATELY CONCENTRATING AND INHALING THE CONTENTS CAN BE HARMFUL OR FATAL. Help stop inhalation abuse. For information visit www.inhalant.org Warnings For external ues only. Do not use on broken skin. Stop use if rash or irritation occurs Ask a doctor before use if you have kidney disease KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately.

=== BENZETHONIUM CHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose First aid antiseptic Topical analgesic Purpose Topical antiseptic Topical anesthetic Purpose First aid Antiseptic Purpose Topical Antiseptic Topical Antiseptic Uses helps protect skin and supports healing of minor cuts, scrapes, burns and wounds, including pressure sores, diabetic ulcers, cracked skin and lips topical antiseptic to help decrease the risk of skin infections Uses decrease bacteria on skin
Indications: Uses first aid to prevent bacterial contamination in minor cuts, scrapes and burns for the temporary relief of pain in minor cuts, scrapes, and burns Uses first aid to help prevent infection in minor cuts, scrapes, and burns first aid for the temporary relief of pain in minor cuts, scrapes, and burns Uses First aid to help protect against infection in minor cuts and scrapes burns Uses First aid to help prevent the risk of bacterial contamination in minor cuts, scrapes and burns. Uses for help in the control of superficial bleeding for temporary relief of pain and to help protect against skin infection in minor cuts, minor scrapes, and minor burns Do not use in large quantities, particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas XtraCare Wet Wipes Antibacterial Hand Wipes Fresh Scent Kills 99.9% of germs Pull up here Resealable 32 Thick Moist Wipes 14.6 cm x 19 cm XtraCare Antibacterial Hand Wipes kill 99.9% of germs, helping prevent the spread of bacteria, and they remove dirt, providing a better clean-up after hand sanitizers. They are ideal for quick clean-ups after contact with germs, sticky foods, greasy dirt and everyday messes. XtraCare Antibacterial Hand Wipes are formulated to be tough on dirt and germs, yet gentle on skin. Help keep your family healthy and clean anytime and anywhere, when soap and water are not available. Uses first aid to prevent bacteria contamination in minor cuts and scrapes Uses For first aid to help prevent infection in: minor cuts scrapes burns
Dosage: Directions for adults and children 2 years of age and older clean affected area apply a small amount on the area 1 to 3 times daily and let dry may be covered with a sterile bandage if bandaged, let dry first children under under 2 years of age; do not sure, consult a doctor Directions clean the affected area shake can well before using hold 4-6 inches from surface and spray area until wet may be covered with sterile bandage. If bandaged, let dry first for adult institutional use only not intended for use on children Directions clean the affected area spray a small amount of this product on the area 1 to 3 times a day may be covered with a sterile bandage if bandaged, let dry first Directions shake well before using hold 6-8 inches from moist injured area spray until the area is covered Scab-like cover will gradually disappear as healing takes place or may be removed with soap and water for adult institutional use only not intended for use on children Directions: Adults and children 2 years of age and older: use to clean minor cut, scrapes, and burns by thoroughly flushing the affected area let air dry cover with adhesive bandage or sterile gauze apply a small amount of this product on the area 1 to 3 times daily Children under 2 years of age: do not use, consult a doctor Directions adults and children 2 years and over apply to hands allow to dry without wiping children under 2 years ask a doctor before use Directions Clean affected area apply a small amount on the area 1-3 times daily let dry a second coating may be applied for extra protection to remove, apply more Liquid Bandage and quickly wipe off finger nail polish remover may dissolve Liquid Bandage Directions Clean affected area Adjust nozzle and spray a small amount of this product on the area 1 to 3 times daily If used as a wet compress, keep bandage wet with solution If covered with a sterile bandage, let dry first. Dosage Directions Clean and dry affected area. Shake bottle well before use. Wipe excess off brush Apply a thin layer to a closed wound. Let dry for 30 to 45 seconds. Additional layers may be added once the previous layer has dried.
Warnings: Warnings For external use only. Flammable: Keep away from fire or flame. Do not use in the eyes over large areas of the body longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if conditions persists or gets worse infection occurs symptoms persist for than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or call a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Flammable keep away from fire or flame contents under pressure do not puncture or incinerate container do not expose to temperatures above 120° F Warnings For external use only Do not use in the eyes or apply over large areas of the body longer than 1 week, unless directed by a doctor for single patient use only Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or punture wounds, animal bites or serious burns When using this product do not puncture or incinerate contents under pressure Stop use and consult a doctor if condition persists or gets worse Keep out of reach of children Flammable Keep away from flame. Contents under pressure. Do not puncture or incinerate. Do not expose to temperatures above 120°(F) DO NOT USE in eyes or other mucous membranes on large portions of the body in case of deep or puncture wounds on raw surfaces on blistered areas on animal bites on serious burns DO NOT USE in eyes or other mucous membranes on large portions of the body in case of deep or puncture wounds on raw surfaces on blistered areas on animal bites on serious burns Stop use and ask doctor if: Redness, swelling, or irritation occurs Infection occurs The condition persists or worsens Symptoms persist for more than 7 days Stop use and ask doctor if: Redness, swelling, or irritation occurs Infection occurs The condition persists or worsens Symptoms persist for more than 7 days Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Do not use if you are allergic to any of the ingredients When using this product do not get into eyes. If contact occurs, rinse thoroughly with water. Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash develops and continues for more than 72 hours. Flammable: do not use while smoking or near heat or flame. Do not use in the eyes over large areas of the body longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor on infected areas or wounds that are draining with other first aid products such as lotions and creams over sutures on mucous membranes Ask a doctor before use if you have deep puncture wounds deep cuts animal bites serious bleeding diabetes poor circulation serious burns When using this product do not sotre at temperaure above 120 o F Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal. Stop use and ask a doctor if conditions persists or gets worse infection occurs Keep out of reach of children. Avoid contact with eyes. Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns When using this product do not use in or near the eyes do not apply over large areas of the body or in large quantities do not use longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsen or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days. Keep out of reach of children. Warnings Warnings For external use only. Flammable keep away from fire of flame

=== OCTINOXATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Sunscreen Uses Helps prevent sunbrun an dphoto damage caused by UVA/UVB exposure. If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see directions) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun. Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn Use Helps prevent sunburn.
Indications: Uses Helps prevent sunburn Uses Helps prevent sunbrun an dphoto damage caused by UVA/UVB exposure. If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see directions) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun. USE A SOOTHING, CALMING AND HYDRATING MOISTURIZER IN ONE. ALSO HELPS TO REDUCE THE APPEARANCE OF SKIN FLUSHING, REDNESS AND VASCULAR STIMULATION. CONTAINING SPF 30 TO FIGHT THE SIGNES OF AGING. A MUST FOR THOSE SUFFERING WITH SKIN AND SUN SENSITIVITIES. Uses Helps prevent sunburn. if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun. Directions Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 monhts of age: Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures. Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses Use Helps prevent sunburn. Uses helps prevent sunburn If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early aging caused by the sun.
Dosage: Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Reapply at least every 2 hours Children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10a.m.-2p.m. wear long sleeved shirts, pants hats, and sunglasses. Directions For suncreen use Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating or washing Reapply at least every 2 hours Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses Children under 6 months: ask a doctor Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before exposure to the sun. Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating. Reapply at least every 2 hours. Children under 6 months of age, ask physician. Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats and sunglasses. DIRECTIONS APPLY GENEROUSLY WITH FINGERS TO ENTIRE FACE AND NECK. USE DAILY. Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Reapply at least every 2 hours Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m.-2 p.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglases children under 6 months of age: ask a doctor Directions • Apply liberally on a clean dry face, avoiding delicate eye area 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply: • after 80 minutes of swimming • or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: • limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m.– 2 p.m • wear long-sleeved shirts pants, hats, and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor Directions Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 monhts of age: Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures. - 2 p.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses Directions Apply in AM to cleansed and toned face. Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure use a water-resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating reapply at least every 2 hours children under 6 months: Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures. Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early aging. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses.
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs When using this product keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Do not use on broken or damaged skin When using this product keep out of eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. If product is swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only. Do not use on damaged or broken skin. Stope use and ask doctor if rash occurs. When using the product keep out of eyes; rinse with water to remove. If swallowed, get medical help or contact poison control immediately. Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun. WARNING FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY. WHEN USING THIS PRODUCT, AVOID CONTACT WITH EYES. IF CONTACT OCCURS, RINSE THOROUGHLY WITH WATER. DISCONTINUE USE AND ASK A DOCTOR IF IRRITATION OR RASH DEVELOPS. Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes, Rinse with water to remove. Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove Use as directed. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs. When using this product keep out of eyes.

=== OXYBENZONE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Sunscreen Active ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 3% Sunscreen Homosalate 15% Sunscreen Octisalate 5% Sunscreen Octocrylene 3% Sunscreen Oxybenzone 6% Sunscreen Purpose Dimethicone - Skin protectant Octinoxate - Sunscreen Octisalate - Sunscreen Oxybenzone - Sunscreen Purpose Dimethicone - Skin protectant Octinoxate – Sunscreen Octisalate – Sunscreen Oxybenzone - Sunscreen
Indications: Uses Helps prevent sunburn Uses helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses helps to prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ) decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses helps prevent sunburn If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early aging caused by the sun. Uses helps prevent sunburn temporarily protects chapped or cracked lips Use Helps prevent sunburn
Dosage: Directions For suncreen use Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating or washing Reapply at least every 2 hours Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses Children under 6 months: ask a doctor Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure do not spray directly on face - spray into hands and apply to face hold approximately 4 - 6 inches from skin to spray rub into skin evenly to ensure appropriate coverage use in a well-ventilated area avoid inhaling or exposing others to spray do not apply in windy conditions reapply: after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating immediately after towel drying at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures. Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hats and sunglasses children under 6 months: Ask a doctor Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. wear long sleeve sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses. children under 6 months: ask a doctor Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply: • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours children under 6 months of age: ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures. Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad-spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: • limit time in the sun, especially from 10am-2pm • wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses. Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure use a water-resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating reapply at least every 2 hours children under 6 months: Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses. Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating reapply at least every 2 hours children under 6 months: ask a doctor Directions For sunscreen use: apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every two hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m.-2 p.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats and sunglasses children under 6 months of age: ask a doctor Directions For sunscreen use: ● apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure ● reapply: ● after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ● immediately after towel drying ● at least every 2 hours ● Sun Protection Measures . To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: ● limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. ● wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses ● children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Do not use on broken or damaged skin When using this product keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. If product is swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Flammable: Do not use near heat, flame, or while smoking Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product : Keep out of eyes. Do not puncture or incinerate. Contents under pressure. Do not store at temperatures above 120° F Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Warnings For external use only Warnings For external use only. Do not use on damaged or broken skin. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs. When using this product keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove Warnings Skin Cancer/Skin Aging Alert: Spending time in the sun increased your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. This product has been shown only to prevent sunburn, not skin cancer or early skin aging. For external use only. Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs condition worsens symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Warnings Skin Cancer/Skin Aging Alert: Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes.

=== SUCRALFATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sucralfate tablets are indicated in: Short-term treatment (up to 8 weeks) of active duodenal ulcer. While healing with sucralfate may occur during the first week or two, treatment should be continued for 4 to 8 weeks unless healing has been demonstrated by x-ray or endoscopic examination. Maintenance therapy for duodenal ulcer patients at reduced dosage after healing of acute ulcers. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sucralfate is indicated in: Short-term treatment (up to 8 weeks) of active duodenal ulcer. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sucralfate Oral Suspension is indicated in the short-term (up to 8 weeks) treatment of active duodenal ulcer. INDICATIONS AND USAGE CARAFATE (sucralfate) Oral Suspension is indicated in the short-term (up to 8 weeks) treatment of active duodenal ulcer.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Active Duodenal Ulcer. The recommended adult oral dosage for duodenal ulcer is 1 g four times per day on an empty stomach. Antacids may be prescribed as needed for relief of pain but should not be taken within one-half hour before or after sucralfate. While healing with sucralfate may occur during the first week or two, treatment should be continued for 4 to 8 weeks unless healing has been demonstrated by x-ray or endoscopic examination. Maintenance Therapy: The recommended adult oral dosage is 1 g twice a day. Elderly: In general, dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy (See PRECAUTIONS, Geriatric Use ). Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to Nostrum Laboratories, Inc. at quality@nostrumpharma.com or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Active Duodenal Ulcer : The recommended adult oral dosage for duodenal ulcer is 1 g four times per day on an empty stomach. Elderly: In general, dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy (See PRECAUTIONS Geriatric Use ). You may report side effects to Greenstone LLC at 1-800-438-1985 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. You may report side effects to AvKARE at 1-855-361-3993 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Active Duodenal Ulcer The recommended adult oral dosage for duodenal ulcer is 1 gram (10 mL) four times per day. Sucralfate Oral Suspension should be administered on an empty stomach. Antacids may be prescribed as needed for relief of pain but should not be taken within one-half hour before or after Sucralfate Oral Suspension. Elderly In general, dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy (see PRECAUTIONS Geriatric Use ). You may report side effects to Precision Dose, Inc.at 1-800-397-9228 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. DOS A GE AN D A DMINIS T RAT I ON Acti v e Duodenal Ulcer : The recommended adult oral dosage for duodenal ulcer is 1 gram (10 mL) four times per day. CARAFATE Oral Suspension should be administered on an empty stomach. Antacids may be prescribed as needed for relief of pain but should not be taken within one-half hour before or after CARAFATE Oral Suspension. Elderly : In general, dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy (See PRECAUTIONS , Geriatric Use ). You may report side effects to AbbVie, Inc at 1-800-678-1605 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Active Duodenal Ulcer: The recommended adult oral dosage for duodenal ulcer is 1 gram (10 mL) four times per day. You may report side effects to PAI Pharma at 1-800-845-8210 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. You may report side effects to Ingenus Pharmaceuticals, LLC at 1-877-748-1970 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch.
Warnings: WARNINGS Fatal complications, including pulmonary and cerebral emboli have occurred with inappropriate intravenous administration of Sucralfate Oral Suspension. Administer Sucralfate Oral Suspension only by the oral route. Do not administer intravenously. WARNINGS Fatal complications, including pulmonary and cerebral emboli have occurred with inappropriate intravenous administration of CARAFATE Oral Suspension. Administer CARAFATE Oral Suspension only by the oral route.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Sucralfate tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity reactions to the active substance or to any of the excipients. CONTRAINDICATIONS Sucralfate is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity reactions to the active substance or to any of the excipients. CONTRAINDICATIONS Sucralfate Oral Suspension is contraindicated for patients with known hypersensitivity reactions to the active substance or to any of the excipients. CONTRAINDICATIONS CARAFATE Oral Suspension is contraindicated for patients with known hypersensitivity reactions to the active substance or to any of the excipients.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Some studies have shown that simultaneous sucralfate administration in healthy volunteers reduced the extent of absorption (bioavailability) of single doses of the following: cimetidine, digoxin, fluoroquinolone antibiotics, ketoconazole, l-thyroxine, phenytoin, quinidine, ranitidine, tetracycline, and theophylline. Subtherapeutic prothrombin times with concomitant warfarin and sucralfate therapy have been reported in spontaneous and published case reports. However, two clinical studies have demonstrated no change in either serum warfarin concentration or prothrombin time with the addition of sucralfate to chronic warfarin therapy. The mechanism of these interactions appears to be nonsystemic in nature, presumably resulting from sucralfate binding to the concomitant agent in the gastrointestinal tract. In all case studies to date (cimetidine, ciprofloxacin, digoxin, norfloxacin, ofloxacin, and ranitidine), dosing the concomitant medication 2 hours before sucralfate eliminated the interaction. Because of the potential of Sucralfate to alter the absorption of some drugs, Sucralfate tablets should be administered separately from other drugs when alterations in bioavailability are felt to be critical. In these cases, patients should be monitored appropriately. Because of the potential of Sucralfate to alter the absorption of some drugs, Sucralfate should be administered separately from other drugs when alterations in bioavailability are felt to be critical. Drug Interactions Some studies have shown that simultaneous sucralfate administration in healthy volunteers reduced the extent of absorption (bioavailability) of single doses of the following: cimetidine, digoxin, fluoroquinolone antibiotics, ketoconazole, I-thyroxine, phenytoin, quinidine, ranitidine, tetracycline, and theophylline. In all cases studied to date (cimetidine, ciprofloxacin, digoxin, norfloxacin, ofloxacin, and ranitidine), dosing the concomitant medication 2 hours before sucralfate eliminated the interaction. Due to Sucralfate Oral Suspension's potential to alter the absorption of some drugs, Sucralfate Oral Suspension should be administered separately from other drugs when alterations in bioavailability are felt to be critical. Drug Intera c tions Some studies have shown that simultaneous sucralfate administration in healthy volunteers reduced the extent of absorption (bioavailability) of single doses of the following: cimetidine, digoxin, fluoroquinolone antibiotics, ketoconazole, l-thyroxine, phenytoin, quinidine, ranitidine, tetracycline, and theophylline. Due to CARAFATE Oral Suspension’s potential to alter the absorption of some drugs, CARAFATE Oral Suspension should be administered separately from other drugs when alterations in bioavailability are felt to be critical.

=== TERBINAFINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antifungal Antifungal
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Terbinafine tablets are indicated for the treatment of onychomycosis of the toenail or fingernail due to dermatophytes (tinea unguium). Prior to initiating treatment, appropriate nail specimens for laboratory testing [potassium hydroxide (KOH) preparation, fungal culture, or nail biopsy] should be obtained to confirm the diagnosis of onychomycosis. Terbinafine tablets are an allylamine antifungal indicated for the treatment of onychomycosis of the toenail or fingernail due to dermatophytes (tinea unguium). Uses • cures most athlete's foot (tinea pedis) • cures most jock itch (tinea cruris) and ringworm (tinea corporis) • relieves itching, burning, cracking and scaling which accompany these conditions Uses cures most jock itch (tinea cruris) relieves itching, burning, cracking and scaling which accompany these conditions Uses cures most jock itch (tinea cruris) relieves itching, burning, cracking and scaling which accompanies this condition 1. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Terbinafine tablets are indicated for the treatment of onychomycosis of the toenail or fingernail due to dermatophytes (tinea unguium). ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Terbinafine tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of onychomycosis of the toenail or fingernail due to dermatophytes (tinea unguium). - cures most athlete's foot (tinea pedis) - cure most jock itch (tinea cruris) and ringworm (tinea corporis) - relieves itching, burning, cracking andf scaling which accompany this condition Uses • cures most athlete’s foot (tinea pedis) between the toes. Effectiveness on the bottom or sides of foot is unknown. • cures most jock itch (tinea cruris) and ringworm (tinea corporis) • relieves itching, burning, cracking and scaling which accompany these conditions
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Prior to administering, evaluate patients for evidence of chronic or active liver disease. • Fingernail onychomycosis: One tablet, once daily for 6 weeks. • Toenail onychomycosis: One tablet, once daily for 12 weeks. 2.1 Assessment Prior to Initiation Before administering terbinafine tablets, evaluate patients for evidence of chronic or active liver disease [see Contraindications (4) and ]. 2.2 Dosage Fingernail onychomycosis: One 250 mg tablet once daily for 6 weeks. Toenail onychomycosis: One 250 mg tablet once daily for 12 weeks. The optimal clinical effect is seen some months after mycological cure and cessation of treatment. This is related to the period required for outgrowth of healthy nail. (2.1) • Fingernail onychomycosis: One 250 mg tablet, once daily for 6 weeks. (2.2) • Toenail onychomycosis: One 250 mg tablet, once daily for 12 weeks. (2.2) 2.1 Assessment Prior to Initiation Before administering terbinafine tablets, evaluate patients for evidence of chronic or active liver disease [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Directions • adults and children 12 years and older o use the tip of the cap to break the seal and open the tube o wash the affected skin with soap and water and dry completely before applying o for athlete's foot wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes. Change shoes and socks at least once daily. ▪ between the toes only: apply twice a day (morning and night) for 1 week or as directed by a doctor. ▪ on the bottom or sides of the foot: apply twice a day (morning and night) for 2 weeks or as directed by a doctor. o for jock itch and ringworm: apply once a day (morning or night) for 1 week or as directed by a doctor. o wash hands after each use • children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions adults and children 12 years and over: use the tip of the cap to break the seal and open the tube wash the affected skin with soap and water and dry completely before applying apply once a day (morning or night) for 1 week or as directed by a doctor wash hands after each use children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions adults and children 12 years and older use the tip of the cap to break the seal and open the tube wash the affected skin with soap and water and dry completely before applying for jock itch apply once a day (morning or night) for 1 week or as directed by a doctor. wash hands after each use children under 12 years: ask a doctor 2. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Prior to administering, evaluate patients for evidence of chronic or active liver disease. ( 2.1 ) Fingernail onychomycosis: One tablet, once daily for 6 weeks. ( 2.2 ) Toenail onychomycosis: One tablet, once daily for 12 weeks. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Assessment Prior to Initiation Before administering Terbinafine tablets, evaluate patients for evidence of chronic or active liver disease [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Prior to administering, evaluate patients for evidence of chronic or active liver disease. ( 2.1 ) Fingernail onychomycosis: One 250 mg tablet, once daily for 6 weeks. ( 2.2 ) Toenail onychomycosis: One 250 mg tablet, once daily for 12 weeks. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Assessment Prior to Initiation Before administering terbinafine tablets, evaluate patients for evidence of chronic or active liver disease [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Directions • adults and children 12 years and over: o use the tip of the cap to break the seal and open the tube o wash the affected skin with soap and water and dry completely before applying o for athlete's foot wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes. ▪ between the toes only: apply twice a day (morning and night) for 1 week or as directed by a doctor ▪ on the bottom or sides of the foot: apply twice a day (morning and night) for 2 weeks or as directed by a doctor o for jock itch and ringworm: apply once a day (morning or night) for 1 week or as directed by a doctor o wash hands after each use • children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions - adults and children 12 years and over: - use the tip of the cap to break the seal and open the tube - wash the affected skin with soap and water and dry completely before applying - for athlete's foot wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes. - between the toes only: apply twice a day (morning and night) for 1 week or as directed by a doctor - on the bottom or sides of the foot: apply twice a day (morning and night) for 2 weeks or as directed by a doctor - for jock itch and ringworm: apply once a day (morning or night) for 1 week or as directed by a doctor - wash hands after each use - children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions • adults and children 12 years and over: • wash the affected area with soap and water and dry completely before applying • to open remove clear cap • hold can 4" to 6" from skin. Press and hold to spray a thin layer over affected area • release to stop spray • wipe excess from spray opening after each use • return cap to can • for athlete’s foot between the toes spray twice a day (morning and night) for 1 week or as directed by a doctor. Wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes. • for jock itch and ringworm spray affected area once a day (morning or night) for 1 week or as directed by a doctor • wash hands after each use • children under 12 years: ask a doctor
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Do not use • on nails or scalp • in or near the mouth or the eyes • for vaginal yeast infections When using this product do not get into the eyes. If eye contact occurs, rinse thoroughly with water. Stop use and ask a doctor if • too much irritation occurs or gets worse. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a poison control center right away. Warnings For external use only Do not use on nails or scalp in or near the mouth or eyes for vaginal yeast infections When using this product do not get into eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if too much irritation occurs or gets worse Keep out of reach of children. Warnings For external use only Do not use on nails or scalp in or near the mouth or the eyes for vaginal yeast infections When using this product do not get into the eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if too much irritation occurs or gets worse. side effects occur. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088. Warnings For external use only Do not use • on nails or scalp • in or near the mouth or eyes • for vaginal yeast infections When using this product do not get into eyes. For external use only Warnings For external use only Do not use • on nails or scalp • in or near the mouth or eyes • for vaginal yeast infections When using this product • do not get into eyes. • do not puncture or incinerate; contents under pressure. Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120°F (49°C).
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Terbinafine tablets are contraindicated in patients with: • Chronic or active liver disease [see ] • History of allergic reaction to oral terbinafine because of the risk of anaphylaxis [see ] • Chronic or active liver disease. (4) • History of allergic reaction to oral terbinafine because of the risk of anaphylaxis. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Terbinafine tablets are contraindicated in patients with: • History of allergic reaction to oral terbinafine because of the risk of anaphylaxis [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] • Chronic or active liver disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] • History of allergic reaction to oral terbinafine because of the risk of anaphylaxis. (4) • Chronic or active liver disease. 4. CONTRAINDICATIONS Terbinafine tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Chronic or active liver disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] History of allergic reaction to oral terbinafine because of the risk of anaphylaxis [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] Chronic or active liver disease. ( 4 ) History of allergic reaction to oral terbinafine because of the risk of anaphylaxis. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Terbinafine tablets are contraindicated in patients with: • History of allergic reaction to oral terbinafine because of the risk of anaphylaxis [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] • Chronic or active liver disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Chronic or active liver disease.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Terbinafine is an inhibitor of CYP450 2D6 isozyme and has an effect on metabolism of desipramine. Drug interactions have also been noted with cimetidine, fluconazole, cyclosporine, rifampin, and caffeine. 7.1 Drug-Drug Interactions In vivo studies have shown that terbinafine is an inhibitor of the CYP450 2D6 isozyme. Drugs predominantly metabolized by the CYP450 2D6 isozyme include the following drug classes: tricyclic antidepressants, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, beta-blockers, antiarrhythmics class 1C (e.g., flecainide and propafenone) and monoamine oxidase inhibitors Type B. Coadministration of terbinafine tablets should be done with careful monitoring and may require a reduction in dose of the 2D6-metabolized drug. In a study to assess the effects of terbinafine on desipramine in healthy volunteers characterized as normal metabolizers, the administration of terbinafine resulted in a 2-fold increase in C max and a 5-fold increase in area under the curve (AUC). In this study, these effects were shown to persist at the last observation at 4 weeks after discontinuation of terbinafine tablets. In studies in healthy subjects characterized as extensive metabolizers of dextromethorphan (antitussive drug and CYP2D6 probe substrate), terbinafine increases the dextromethorphan/dextrorphan metabolite ratio in urine by 16- to 97-fold on average. Thus, terbinafine may convert extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers to poor metabolizer status. In vitro studies with human liver microsomes showed that terbinafine does not inhibit the metabolism of tolbutamide, ethinylestradiol, ethoxycoumarin, cyclosporine, cisapride and fluvastatin. In vivo drug-drug interaction studies conducted in healthy volunteer subjects showed that terbinafine does not affect the clearance of antipyrine or digoxin. Terbinafine decreases the clearance of caffeine by 19%. Terbinafine increases the clearance of cyclosporine by 15%. The influence of terbinafine on the pharmacokinetics of fluconazole, cotrimoxazole (trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole), zidovudine or theophylline was not considered to be clinically significant. Coadministration of a single dose of fluconazole (100 mg) with a single dose of terbinafine resulted in a 52% and 69% increase in terbinafine C max and AUC, respectively. Fluconazole is an inhibitor of CYP2C9 and CYP3A enzymes. Based on this finding, it is likely that other inhibitors of both CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole, amiodarone) may also lead to a substantial increase in the systemic exposure (C max and AUC) of terbinafine when concomitantly administered. There have been spontaneous reports of increase or decrease in prothrombin times in patients concomitantly taking oral terbinafine and warfarin, however, a causal relationship between terbinafine tablets and these changes has not been established. Terbinafine clearance is increased 100% by rifampin, a CYP450 enzyme inducer, and decreased 33% by cimetidine, a CYP450 enzyme inhibitor. Terbinafine clearance is unaffected by cyclosporine. There is no information available from adequate drug-drug interaction studies with the following classes of drugs: oral contraceptives, hormone replacement therapies, hypoglycemics, phenytoins, thiazide diuretics, and calcium channel blockers. 7.2 Food Interactions An evaluation of the effect of food on terbinafine tablets was conducted. An increase of less than 20% of the AUC of terbinafine was observed when terbinafine tablets were administered with food. Terbinafine tablets can be taken with or without food. (7.1) 7.1 Drug-Drug Interactions In vivo studies have shown that terbinafine is an inhibitor of the CYP450 2D6 isozyme. 7. DRUG INTERACTIONS Terbinafine is an inhibitor of CYP450 2D6 isozyme and has an effect on metabolism of desipramine. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Drug-Drug Interactions In vivo studies have shown that terbinafine is an inhibitor of the CYP450 2D6 isozyme. In studies in healthy subjects characterized as extensive metabolizers of dextromethorphan (antitussive drug and CYP2D6 probe substrate), terbinafine increases the dextromethorphan/ dextrorphan metabolite ratio in urine by 16- to 97-fold on average. In studies in healthy subjects characterized as extensive metabolizers of dextromethorphan (antitussive drug and CYP2D6 probe substrate), terbinafine increases the dextromethorphan /dextrorphan metabolite ratio in urine by 16- to 97-fold on average.

=== OCTISALATE AND OCTOCRYLENE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Active ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 3.0% Sunscreen Homosalate 4.0% Sunscreen Octisalate 4.5% Sunscreen Octocrylene 2.6% Sunscreen Active ingredients Purpose AVOBENZONE 2.3% Sunscreen HOMOSALATE 10.0% Sunscreen OCTISALATE 5.0% Sunscreen OCTOCRYLENE 5.0% Sunscreen Purpose Sunscreen Uses Uses Helps prevent sunburn. If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer & early skin aging caused by the sun. Active ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 3% Sunscreen Homosalate 10% Sunscreen Octisalate 5% Sunscreen Octocrylene 10% Sunscreen Active ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 3% Sunscreen Homosalate 15% Sunscreen Octisalate 5% Sunscreen Octocrylene 10% Sunscreen
Indications: Uses helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses - helps prevent sunburn - if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Indications & Usage Uses Helps prevent sunburn. Uses - helps prevent sunburn - if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun
Dosage: Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures. Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in sun, especially from 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses children under 6 months: ask a doctor Directions For sunscreen use: apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply: after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating immediately after towel drying at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures . To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses children under 6 months: Ask a doctor Directions For sunscreen use: ● apply generously and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure ● reapply at least every 2 hours ● use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating ● Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: ● limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. ● wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses ● children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor Directions For sunscreen use: shake well apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures . To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor Directions Directions Apply + reapply at least every 80 minutes. Sun protection measures. Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer & early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher & other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. - wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hats & sunglasses. Directions For sunscreen use: shake well before use apply generously 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply: ● after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ● immediately after towel drying ● at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures . ● wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor Directions spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure hold container 4-6 inches from the skin to apply. Rub in. do not spray directly into face. Spray on hands and then apply to face. do not apply in windy conditions use in a well-ventilated area reapply: after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating immediately after towel drying at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures. Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply: after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating immediately after towel drying at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures.
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. If product is swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs. Keep out of reach of children. Flammable Do not use near heat, flame, or while smoking Warnings For external use only Warnings Warnings For external use only. Do not use on damaged or broken skin. Stop use & ask a doctor if rash occurs. When using this product, keep out of eyes. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Can stain clothing. Keep away from clothes. Children under 6 months: ask a doctor. keep away from face to avoid breathing it Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Danger: Flammable. Contents under pressure. Do not use near fire, heat or while smoking. Do not puncture or incinerate. Store at temperature below 120°F (48°C). Use only as directed. Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal.

=== ESZOPICLONE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Eszopiclone tablets are indicated for the treatment of insomnia. In controlled outpatient and sleep laboratory studies, eszopiclone tablets administered at bedtime decreased sleep latency and improved sleep maintenance. The clinical trials performed in support of efficacy were up to 6 months in duration. The final formal assessments of sleep latency and maintenance were performed at 4 weeks in the 6-week study (adults only), at the end of both 2-week studies (elderly only) and at the end of the 6-month study (adults only). Eszopiclone tablets are indicated for the treatment of insomnia. Eszopiclone tablets has been shown to decrease sleep latency and improve sleep maintenance ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Eszopiclone tablets are indicated for the treatment of insomnia. Eszopiclone tablets have been shown to decrease sleep latency and improve sleep maintenance ( 1 ). Eszopiclone tablets has been shown to decrease sleep latency and improve sleep maintenance (1) In controlled outpatient and sleep laboratory studies, eszopiclone tablets are administered at bedtime decreased sleep latency and improved sleep maintenance. Eszopiclone has been shown to decrease sleep latency and improve sleep maintenance (1) Eszopiclone tablets have been shown to decrease sleep latency and improve sleep maintenance ( 1 )
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dose for the patient. • Use the lowest dose effective for the patient ( 2 ) • Recommended initial dose is 1 mg, immediately before bedtime, with at least 7 to 8 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening. May increase dose if clinically indicated, to a maximum of 3 mg ( 2.1 ) • Geriatric or debilitated patients: Dose should not exceed 2 mg ( 2.2 ) • Patients with severe hepatic impairment, or taking potent CYP3A4 inhibitors: Dose should not exceed 2 mg ( 2.3 ) • Do not take with or immediately after a meal ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Dosage in Adults The recommended starting dose is 1 mg. Dosing can be raised to 2 mg or 3 mg if clinically indicated. In some patients, the higher morning blood levels of eszopiclone tablets following use of the 2 mg or 3 mg dose increase the risk of next day impairment of driving and other activities that require full alertness [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. The total dose of eszopiclone tablets should not exceed 3 mg, once daily immediately before bedtime [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. 2.2 Geriatric or Debilitated Patients The total dose of eszopiclone tablets should not exceed 2 mg in elderly or debilitated patients. 2.3 Patients with Severe Hepatic Impairment, or Taking Potent CYP3A4 Inhibitors In patients with severe hepatic impairment, or in patients coadministered eszopiclone tablets with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors, the total dose of eszopiclone tablets should not exceed 2 mg [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 2.4 Use with CNS Depressants Dosage adjustments may be necessary when eszopiclone tablets are combined with othercentral nervous system (CNS) depressant drugs because of the potentially additive effects [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 2.5 Administration with Food Taking eszopiclone tablets with or immediately after a heavy, high-fat meal results in slower absorption and would be expected to reduce the effect of eszopiclone tablets on sleep latency [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dose for the patient. In some patients, the higher morning blood levels of eszopiclone tablets following use of the 2 mg or 3 mg dose increase the risk of next day impairment of driving and other activities that require full alertness [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. The total dose of eszopiclone tablets should not exceed 3 mg, once daily immediately before bedtime [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ]. 2.3 Patients with Severe Hepatic Impairment, or Taking Potent CYP3A4 Inhibitors In patients with severe hepatic impairment, or in patients coadministered eszopiclone tablets with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors, the total dose of eszopiclone tablets should not exceed 2 mg [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) ]. 2.4 Use with CNS Depressants Dosage adjustments may be necessary when eszopiclone tablets are combined with other central nervous system (CNS) depressant drugs because of the potentially additive effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. 2.5 Administration with Food Taking eszopiclone tablets with or immediately after a heavy, high-fat meal results in slower absorption and would be expected to reduce the effect of eszopiclone tablets on sleep latency [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. • Use the lowest dose effective for the patient (2) • Recommended initial dose is 1 mg, immediately before bedtime, with at least 7 to 8 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening. May increase dose if clinically indicated, to a maximum of 3 mg (2.1) • Geriatric or debilitated patients: Dose should not exceed 2 mg (2.2) • Patients with severe hepatic impairment, or taking potent CYP3A4 inhibitors: Dose should not exceed 2 mg (2.3) • Do not take with or immediately after a meal (2.5) 2.1 Dosage in Adults The recommended starting dose is 1 mg. In some patients, the higher morning blood levels of eszopiclone tablets following use of the 2 mg or 3 mg dose increase the risk of next day impairment of driving and other activities that require full alertness [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . The total dose of eszopiclone tablets should not exceed 3 mg, once daily immediately before bedtime [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . 2.3 Patients with Severe Hepatic Impairment, or Taking Potent CYP3A4 Inhibitors In patients with severe hepatic impairment, or in patients coadministered eszopiclone tablets with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors, the total dose of eszopiclone tablets should not exceed 2 mg [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . 2.4 Use with CNS Depressants Dosage adjustments may be necessary when eszopiclone tablets are combined with other central nervous system (CNS) depressant drugs because of the potentially additive effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 2.5 Administration with Food Taking eszopiclone tablets with or immediately after a heavy, high-fat meal results in slower absorption and would be expected to reduce the effect of eszopiclone tablets on sleep latency [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Use the lowest dose effective for the patient (2) Recommended initial dose is 1 mg immediately before bedtime, with at least 7 to 8 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening. May increase dose if clinically indicated to a maximum of 3 mg ( 2.1 ) Geriatric or debilitated patients: Dose should not exceed 2 mg (2.2) Patients with severe hepatic impairment or taking potent CYP3A4 inhibitors: Dose should not exceed 2 mg (2.3) Do not take with or immediately after a meal (2.5) 2.1 Dosage in Adults The recommended starting dose is 1 mg. In some patients, the higher morning blood levels of eszopiclone tablets following use of the 2 mg or 3 mg dose increase the risk of next day impairment of driving and other activities that require full alertness [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. 2 4 Use with CNS Depressants Dosage adjustments may be necessary when eszopiclone tablets are combined with other central nervous system (CNS) depressant drugs because of the potentially additive effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. · Use the lowest dose effective for the patient ( 2 ) · Recommended initial dose is 1 mg, immediately before bedtime, with at least 7-8 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening. May increase dose if clinically indicated, to a maximum of 3 mg ( 2.1 ) · Geriatric or debilitated patients: Dose should not exceed 2 mg ( 2.2 ) · Patients with severe hepatic impairment, or taking potent CYP3A4 inhibitors: Dose should not exceed 2 mg ( 2.3 ) · Do not take with or immediately after a meal ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Dosage in Adults The recommended starting dose is 1 mg. In some patients, the higher morning blood levels of eszopiclone tablets following use of the 2 mg or 3 mg dose increase the risk of next day impairment of driving and other activities that require full alertness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. The total dose of eszopiclone tablets should not exceed 3 mg, once daily immediately before bedtime [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ]. 2.3 Patients with Severe Hepatic Impairment, or Taking Potent CYP3A4 Inhibitors In patients with severe hepatic impairment, or in patients coadministered eszopiclone with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors, the total dose of eszopiclone tablets should not exceed 2 mg [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) ]. 2.4 Use with CNS Depressants Dosage adjustments may be necessary when eszopiclone tablets are combined with other central nervous system (CNS) depressant drugs because of the potentially additive effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. 2.5 Administration with Food Taking eszopiclone tablets with or immediately after a heavy, high-fat meal results in slower absorption and would be expected to reduce the effect of eszopiclone tablets on sleep latency [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.3 Patients with Severe Hepatic Impairment, or Taking Potent CYP3A4 Inhibitors In patients with severe hepatic impairment, or in patients coadministered eszopiclone with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors, the total dose of eszopiclone tablets should not exceed 2 mg [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5.7 ) ]. 2.4 Use with CNS Depressants Dosage adjustments may be necessary when eszopiclone tablets are combined with other CNS depressant drugs because of the potentially additive effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Use the lowest dose effective for the patient ( 2 ) Recommended initial dose is 1 mg, immediately before bedtime, with at least 7 to 8 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening. May increase dose if clinically indicated, to a maximum of 3 mg ( 2.1 ) Geriatric or debilitated patients: Dose should not exceed 2 mg ( 2.2 ) Patients with severe hepatic impairment, or taking potent CYP3A4 inhibitors: Dose should not exceed 2 mg ( 2.3 ) Do not take with or immediately after a meal ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Dosage in Adults The recommended starting dose is 1 mg. In some patients, the higher morning blood levels of eszopiclone tablets following use of the 2 mg or 3 mg dose increase the risk of next day impairment of driving and other activities that require full alertness [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . The total dose of eszopiclone tablets should not exceed 3 mg, once daily immediately before bedtime [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . 2.3 Patients with Severe Hepatic Impairment, or Taking Potent CYP3A4 Inhibitors In patients with severe hepatic impairment, or in patients coadministered eszopiclone tablets with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors, the total dose of eszopiclone tablets should not exceed 2 mg [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] . 2.4 Use with CNS Depressants Dosage adjustments may be necessary when eszopiclone tablets are combined with other central nervous system (CNS) depressant drugs because of the potentially additive effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] .
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Eszopiclonetablet is contraindicated in patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking eszopiclone tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. • Eszopiclone tablet is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to eszopiclone. Hypersensitivity reactions include anaphylaxis and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. • Patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking eszopiclone tablets ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to eszopiclone ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Eszopiclone tablets are contraindicated in patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking eszopiclone tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . • Eszopiclone tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to eszopiclone. Hypersensitivity reactions include anaphylaxis and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Eszopiclone tablets are contraindicated in patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking Eszopiclone tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Hypersensitivity reactions include anaphylaxis and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Eszopiclone tablets are contraindicated in patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking eszopiclone [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Eszopiclone tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to eszopiclone. Hypersensitivity reactions include anaphylaxis and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ]. Patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking eszopiclone tablets (4) Known hypersensitivity to eszopiclone (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • tablets are contraindicated in patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking eszopiclone tablets [ ]. Hypersensitivity reactions include anaphylaxis and angioedema [ ]. • Eszopiclone tablets are contraindicated in patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking eszopiclone tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Hypersensitivity reactions include anaphylaxis and angioedema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ]. • Patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking eszopiclone ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to eszopiclone ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Eszopiclone tablets are contraindicated in patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking eszopiclone tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Eszopiclone tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to eszopiclone. Hypersensitivity reactions include anaphylaxis and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Known hypersensitivity to eszopiclone ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Eszopiclone tablets are contraindicated in patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking eszopiclone tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking eszopiclone tablets ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to eszopiclone ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Eszopiclone tablets is contraindicated in patients who have experienced complex sleep behaviors after taking eszopiclone tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Hypersensitivity reactions include anaphylaxis and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] .
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • CNS Depressants Additive CNS-depressant effects with combination use. Use with ethanol causes additive psychomotor impairment ( 7.1 ) • Rifampicin Combination use may decrease exposure and effects of eszopiclone tablets ( 7.2 ) • Ketoconazole Combination use increases exposure and effect of eszopiclone tablets. Dose reduction of eszopiclone tablet is needed ( 7.2 ) 7.1 CNS Active Drugs Ethanol: An additive effect on psychomotor performance was seen with coadministration of eszopiclone and ethanol [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.2) ]. Olanzapine: Coadministration of eszopiclone and olanzapine produced a decrease in DSST scores. The interaction was pharmacodynamic; there was no alteration in the pharmacokinetics of either drug. 7.2 Drugs that Inhibit or Induce CYP3A4 Drugs that Inhibit CYP3A4 (Ketoconazole) CYP3A4 is a major metabolic pathway for elimination of eszopiclone. The exposure of eszopiclone was increased by coadministration of ketoconazole, a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4. Other strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., itraconazole, clarithromycin, nefazodone, troleandomycin, ritonavir, nelfinavir) would be expected to behave similarly. Dose reduction of eszopiclone tablet is needed for patient co-administered eszopiclone tablets with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . Drugs that Induce CYP3A4 (Rifampicin) Racemic zopiclone exposure was decreased 80% by concomitant use of rifampicin, a potent inducer of CYP3A4. A similar effect would be expected with eszopiclone. Combination use with CYP3A4 inducer may decrease the exposure and effects of eszopiclone tablets. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • CNS Depressants: Additive CNS-depressant effects with combination use. Use with ethanol causes additive psychomotor impairment ( 7.1 ) • Rifampicin: Combination use may decrease exposure and effects of eszopiclone ( 7.2 ) • Ketoconazole: Combination use increases exposure and effect of eszopiclone. Dose reduction of eszopiclone is needed ( 7.2 ) 7.1 CNS Active Drugs Ethanol: An additive effect on psychomotor performance was seen with coadministration of eszopiclone and ethanol [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 )] . Dose reduction of eszopiclone is needed for patients co administered eszopiclone with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )]. Combination use with CYP3A4 inducer may decrease the exposure and effects of eszopiclone. Drug Interactions Eszopiclone is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP2E1 via demethylation and oxidation. There were no pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions between eszopiclone and paroxetine. When eszopiclone was coadministered with olanzapine, no pharmacokinetic interaction was detected in levels of eszopiclone or olanzapine, but a pharmacodynamic interaction was seen on a measure of psychomotor function. Eszopiclone and lorazepam decreased each other’s C max by 22%. Coadministration of eszopiclone 3 mg to subjects receiving ketoconazole, a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, 400 mg daily for 5 days, resulted in a 2.2-fold increase in exposure to eszopiclone. C max and t 1/2 were increased 1.4-fold and 1.3-fold, respectively. Eszopiclone would not be expected to alter the clearance of drugs metabolized by common CYP450 enzymes [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ), Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] . Paroxetine: Coadministration of single dose of eszopiclone and paroxetine produced no pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interaction. The lack of a drug interaction following single-dose administration does not predict the complete absence of a pharmacodynamic effect following chronic administration. Lorazepam: Coadministration of single doses of eszopiclone and lorazepam did not have clinically relevant effects on the pharmacodynamics or pharmacokinetics of either drug. Use with ethanol causes additive psychomotor impairment (7.1) • Rifampicin: Combination use may decrease exposure and effects of eszopiclone (7.2) • Ketoconazole: Combination use increases exposure and effect of eszopiclone. Dose reduction of eszopiclone is needed (7.2) 7.1 CNS Active Drugs Ethanol: An additive effect on psychomotor performance was seen with coadministration of eszopiclone and ethanol [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.2) ] . Dose reduction of eszopiclone is needed for patient co-administered eszopiclone with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CNS Depressants : Additive CNS-depressant effects with combination use. Use with ethanol causes additive psychomotor impairment (7.1) Rifampicin : Combination use may decrease exposure and effects of eszopiclone (7.2) Ketoconazole : Combination use increases exposure and effect of eszopiclone. Dose reduction of eszopiclone is needed (7.2) 7.1 CNS Active Drugs Ethanol: An additive effect on psychomotor performance was seen with coadministration of eszopiclone and ethanol [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 )]. Dose reduction of eszopiclone is needed for patient co-administered eszopiclone with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )]. Use with ethanol causes additive psychomotor impairment ( 7.1 ) • Rifampicin: Combination use may decrease exposure to and effects of eszopiclone ( 7.2 ) • Ketoconazole: Combination use increases exposure to and effect of eszopiclone. Dose reduction of eszopiclone is needed ( 7.2 ) 7.1 CNS Active Drugs Ethanol: An additive effect on psychomotor performance was seen with coadministration of eszopiclone and ethanol [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 )] Olanzapine: Coadministration of eszopiclone and olanzapine produced a decrease in DSST scores. Dose reduction of Eszopiclone is needed for patient co-administered with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors. [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] Drugs that Induce CYP3A4 (Rifampicin) Racemic zopiclone exposure was decreased 80% by concomitant use of rifampicin, a potent inducer of CYP3A4. Combination use with CYP3A4 inducer may decrease after exposure and effects of eszopiclone. Dose reduction of eszopiclone is needed ( 7.2 ) 7.1 CNS Active Drugs Ethanol: An additive effect on psychomotor performance was seen with coadministration of eszopiclone and ethanol [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 )]. Dose reduction of eszopiclone is needed ( 7.2 ) 7.1 CNS Active Drugs Ethanol: An additive effect on psychomotor performance was seen with coadministration of eszopiclone and ethanol Olanzapine: Coadministration of eszopiclone and olanzapine produced a decrease in DSST scores. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CNS Depressants: Additive CNS-depressant effects with combination use. Use with ethanol causes additive psychomotor impairment ( 7.1 ) Rifampicin: Combination use may decrease exposure and effects of eszopiclone ( 7.2 ) Ketoconazole: Combination use increases exposure and effect of eszopiclone. Dose reduction of eszopiclone is needed for patient coadministered eszopiclone with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] .

=== FOLIC ACID ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS: Integra FTM is indicated for the treatment of iron deficiency anemia, and folate deficiency anemia. Integra FTM is indicated in pregnancy for the prevention and treatment of iron deficiency and to supply a maintenance dosage of folic acid. INDICATIONS: PNV-DHA is a multivitamin/multimineral nutritional supplement indicated for use in the dietary management of patients with nutritional deficiencies or are in need of nutritional supplementation. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Folic acid is effective in the treatment of megaloblastic anemias due to a deficiency of folic acid (as may be seen in tropical or nontropical sprue) and in anemias of nutritional origin, pregnancy, infancy, or childhood. Indications and Usage: Folcyteine™ is indicated to provide vitamin supplement to men and women. Folic acid is effective in the treatment of megaloblastic anemias due to a deficiency of folic acid (as may be seen in tropical or nontropical sprue) and in anemias of nutritional origin, pregnancy, infancy, or childhood INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dialyvite with Zinc is a prescription folic acid supplement with Zinc and additional nutrients indicated for use in improving the nutritional status of renal dialysis patients. INDICATIONS CitraNatal Assure ® is a multivitamin/mineral prescription drug indicated for use in improving the nutritional status of women prior to conception, throughout pregnancy, and in the postnatal period for both lactating and nonlactating mothers. INDICATION AND USAGE: IROSPAN 24/6 is indicated for the treatment of all anemias that are responsive to oral iron therapy. These include: hypochromic anemia associated with pregnancy, chronic and/or acute blood loss, metabolic disease, post-surgical convalescence, and dietary needs. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Supplementation of the diet with ten essential vitamins. Supplementation of the diet with fluoride for caries prophylaxis. M ultivitamin with Fluoride 0.5 mg Chewable Tablets provide 0.5 mg fluoride in tablet form for children 4-6 years of age in areas where the drinking water fluoride level is less than 0.3 ppm, and for children 6 years of age and above where the drinking water contains 0.3 through 0.6 ppm of fluoride. Multivitamin with Fluoride 0.5 mg Chewable Tablets supply significant amounts of Vitamins A, C, D, E, thiamine, riboflavin, niacin, vitamin B6, vitamin B12, and folate to supplement the diet, and to help assure that nutritional deficiencies of these vitamins will not develop. Thus, in a single easy-to-use preparation, children obtain ten essential vitamins and the important mineral, fluoride. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that children up to age 16, in areas where drinking water contains less than optimal levels of fluoride, receive daily fluoride supplements. Children using Multivitamin with Fluoride 0 . 5 mg Chewable Tablets regularly should receive semiannual dental examinations. The regular brushing of teeth and attention to good oral hygiene practices are also essential. Multivitamin with Fluoride Chewable Tablets is a prescription product for the clinical dietary management of the metabolic processes of caries prophylaxis and provides supplementation of the diet with ten essential vitamins.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Adults (persons over 12 years of age), One (1) capsule daily, between meals, or as prescribed by a physician. Do not exceed recommended dosage. Do not administer to children under the age of 12. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Before, during and/or after pregnancy, one softgel daily or as directed by a physician. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Oral administration is preferred. Although most patients with malabsorption cannot absorb food folates, they are able to absorb folic acid given orally. Parenteral administration is not advocated but may be necessary in some individuals (e.g., patients receiving parenteral or enteral alimentation). Doses greater than 0.1 mg should not be used unless anemia due to vitamin B 12 deficiency has been ruled out or is being adequately treated with a cobalamin. Daily doses greater than 1 mg do not enhance the hematologic effect, and most of the excess is excreted unchanged in the urine. The usual therapeutic dosage in adults and children (regard less of age) is up to 1 mg daily. Resistant cases may require larger doses. When clinical symptoms have subsided and the blood picture has become normal, a daily maintenance level should be used, i.e., 0.1 mg for infants and up to 0.3 mg for children under 4 years of age, 0.4 mg for adults and children 4 or more years of age, and 0.8 mg for pregnant and lactating women, but never less than 0.1 mg/day. Patients should be kept under close supervision and adjustment of the maintenance level made if relapse appears imminent. In the presence of alcoholism, hemolytic anemia, anticonvulsant therapy, or chronic infection, the maintenance level may need to be increased. Dosage and Administration: One (1) Folcyteine™ caplet daily or as directed by a physician. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Take 1-2 tablets daily, as a dietary supplement, as directed by your physician. HOW SUPPLIED: Nicotinamide Tablets are white-colored, oval-shaped tablets debossed on one side with “342”, and are supplied in bottles of 60 tablets (42192-374-60). The listed product number is not a National Drug Code. Instead, Acella has assigned a product code formatted according to standard industry practice in order to comply with the formatting requirements of pharmacy and healthcare insurance computer systems. STORAGE: Store at 20° - 25°C (68° - 77°F); excursions permitted to 15° - 30°C (59° - 86°F). [See USP Controlled Room Temperature.] MANUFACTURED FOR: Acella Pharmaceuticals, LLC Alpharetta, GA 30005 1-800-541-4802 L-0289 Rev 0321-01 *Subject to one or more claims of U.S. Patent Nos. 7,582,418, 7,838,042 and 8,425,956. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take one tablet per day or as directed by your physician, orally. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One tablet and one capsule daily or as directed by a physician. Dosage and Administration Usual adult dosage is 1 tablet daily or as directed by a physician. The IROSPAN® carton contains a 30 day course of iron therapy that consists of 24 light blue tablets and 6 white tablets. Take 1 light blue tablet daily for 24 days, followed by 1 white tablet daily for 6 days. After the 30 tablets have been taken, a new course may be started if prescribed. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One tablet daily, to be dissolved in the mouth or chewed before swallowing. Do not give a chewable tablet to a child younger than 4 years old.
Warnings: WARNING: Ingestion of more than 3 grams of omega-3 fatty acids (such as DHA) per day has been shown to have potential antithrombotic effects, including an increased bleeding time and International Normalized Ratio (INR). Administration of omega-3 fatty acids should be avoided in patients taking anticoagulants and in those known to have an inherited or acquired predisposition to bleeding. WARNING Administration of folic acid alone is improper therapy for pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias in which vitamin B 12 is deficient. THESE STATEMENTS HAVE NOT BEEN EVALUATED BY THE FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION. THIS PRODUCT IS NOT INTENDED TO DIAGNOSE, TREAT, CURE, OR PREVENT ANY DISEASE. KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN. WARNINGS: If you are pregnant, nursing, or taking medication, consult your doctor before use. Use only under the advice and supervision of a physician if you have a history of jaundice, liver disease or diabetes. Abnormal liver function tests have been reported in persons taking daily doses of 500 mg or more of niacinamide. Folate intake should not exceed 250% of the Daily Value (1,000 mcg). PREGNANCY & NURSING MOTHERS: Nicotinamide Tablets is not indicated for use as a prenatal/postnatal multivitamin for lactating and nonlactating mothers. Physicians and medical practitioners should administer Nicotinamide Tablets with caution to patients who are pregnant, lactating and/or taking medication. ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic sensitization has been reported rarely following oral and parental administration of Folate. WARNING Ingestion of more than 3 grams of omega-3 fatty acids per day has been shown to have potential antithrombotic effects, including an increased bleeding time and INR. Administration of omega-3 fatty acids should be avoided in patients on anticoagulants and in those known to have an inherited or acquired bleeding diathesis. WARNING Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where vitamin B 12 is deficient. WARNING Keep out of the reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. CAUTION Do not eat or drink dairy products within one hour of fluoride administration. Should be chewed. This product, as all chewable tablets, is not recommended for children under age 4 due to risk of choking.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS: Integra FTM is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its ingredients; also, all iron compounds are contraindicated in patients with hemosiderosis, hemochromatosis, or hemolytic anemias. Pernicious anemia is a contraindication, as folic acid may obscure its signs and symptoms. CONTRAINDICATIONS: This product is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients. CONTRAINDICATIONS Folic acid is contraindicated in patients who have shown previous intolerance to the drug. Folcyteine™ is contraindicated in patients with hypercalcemia, malabsorption syndrome, abnormal sensitivity to the toxic effects of vitamin D, and hypervitaminosis D. CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients. CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients. Warnings: Ingestion of more than 3 grams of omega-fatty acids per day has been shown to have potential antithrombotic effects, including increased bleeding time and INR. Administration of omega-3 fatty acids should be avoided in patients on anticoagulants and in those known to have an inherited or acquired bleeding diathesis. Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where vitamin B12 is deficient.

=== NITROGLYCERIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: PURPOSE: Arsenicum Album – Pain Under Arm, Aurum Metallicum – Back Pain, Baryta Carbonica - Irritability, Calcarea Carbonica - Fever, Glonoinum - Headache, Iodium – General Pain, Kali Iodatum – Hearing Loss, Lachesis Mutus - Sweat, Lithium Carbonicum - Coldness, Mercurius Solubilis – Pain Under Arm, Naja Tripudians – Back Pain, Phosphoricum Acidum - Irritability, Phosphorus - Coldness, Sepia - Fever, Spongia Tosta - Headache, Tabacum – General Pain, Thyroidinum (Suis) – Hearing Loss OTC - PURPOSE SECTION Formulated for symptoms such as fear, cold hands & feet, headache, weakness, sallow skin and palpitations. PURPOSE: Aids in temporary relief of headaches, frequent nosebleeds, excess water retention, nausea and dizziness.† †Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. Not FDA evaluated. Temporarily relieves symptoms caused by common menopause. For relief of occasional overexertion of the eyes. Application of this homeopathic remedy for the designated usage is exclusively based on homeopathic experience. With severe forms of this disease, a clinically proven therapy is indicated. INDICATIONS: For temporary relief of heaviness of the chest, tiredness after minimal exercise, difficulty breathing with heaviness. OTC - PURPOSE SECTION Formulated for associated symptoms such as ringing, buzzing, echoing, pressure, pain, throbbing and sensitivity to noise. INACTIVE INGREDIENT SECTION Inactive Ingredients: Gluten-free, non-GMO, organic beet-derived sucrose (lactose-free) pellets.
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets are indicated for the acute relief of an attack or acute prophylaxis of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease. Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets are a nitrate vasodilator indicated for relief of an attack or prophylaxis of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease. ( 1 ) USES: • For the temporary relief of symptoms including: • pain under arm • back pain • irritability • fever • headache • general pain • hearing loss • sweat • coldness These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. They have not been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration. INDICATIONS & USAGE SECTION Formulated for symptoms such as fear, cold hands & feet, headache, weakness, sallow skin and palpitations. INDICATIONS Aids in temporary relief of headaches, frequent nosebleeds, excess water retention, nausea and dizziness.† †Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. Not FDA evaluated. USES: Temporarily relieves symptoms caused by common menopause, hormonal imbalances. ** ​This statement has not been evaluated by the FDA. It is based on documented Homeopathic Materia Medica. Indications For relief of occasional overexertion of the eyes. Application of this homeopathic remedy for the designated usage is exclusively based on homeopathic experience. With severe forms of this disease, a clinically proven therapy is indicated. INDICATIONS: For temporary relief of heaviness of the chest, tiredness after minimal exercise, difficulty breathing with heaviness. INDICATIONS & USAGE SECTION Formulated for associated symptoms such as ringing, buzzing, echoing, pressure, pain, throbbing and sensitivity to noise.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer one tablet under the tongue or in the buccal pouch at the first sign of an acute anginal attack. Allow tablet to dissolve without swallowing. One additional tablet may be administered every 5 minutes until relief is obtained. No more than three tablets are recommended within a 15-minute period. If the pain persists after a total of 3 tablets in a 15-minute period, or if the pain is different than is typically experienced, seek prompt medical attention. Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets may be used prophylactically 5 to 10 minutes prior to engaging in activities that might precipitate an acute attack. For patients with xerostomia, a small sip of water prior to placing the tablet under the tongue may help maintain mucosal hydration and aid dissolution of the tablet. Administer nitroglycerin sublingual tablets at rest, preferably in the sitting position. • At the onset of an attack, administer one tablet under the tongue or buccal pouch. One additional tablet may be administered every 5 minutes as needed. No more than 3 total tablets are recommended within a 15 minute period. ( 2 ) • If chest pain persists after three tablets, seek prompt medical attention. ( 2 ) • May be used prophylactically 5 to 10 minutes prior to engaging in activities that might precipitate an acute attack. ( 2 ) DIRECTIONS: 1-10 drops under the tongue, 3 times a day or as directed by a health professional. Consult a physician for use in children under 12 years of age. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION Directions: Adults, take 6 drops by mouth one to four times daily or as directed by a health professional. DIRECTIONS: Adults: 2 to 3 sprays orally, three times daily. Children under twelve one half adult dosage. Do not take within 15 minutes of consuming food, beverage or brushing teeth. DIRECTIONS: Shake 10 times before use. Hold close to mouth and spray 3 times directly under the tongue 2-3 times a day, or as directed by a health care professional. Not for use by children. Dosage Unless otherwise prescribed, adults take 15-20 drops, 3 times per day. For pediatric dosages, consult your practitioner. DIRECTIONS: 10 drops orally, 3 times a day. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION Directions: Ages 12 and up, take 6 drops by mouth (ages 0 to 11, give 3 drops) as needed or as directed by a health professional. Sensitive persons begin with 1 drop and gradually increase to full dose. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION Directions: Ages 12 and up, take 6 pellets by mouth (ages 6 to 11, give 3 pellets) as needed or as directed by a health professional. Sensitive persons begin with 1 pellet and gradually increase to full dose. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION Directions: Ages 12 and up, take 6 drops by mouth (ages 6 to 11, give 3 drops) as needed or as directed by a health professional.
Warnings: WARNINGS: If pregnant of breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, contact a physician or Poison Control Center right away. Tamper Evident: Sealed for your protection. Do not use if seal is broken or missing. WARNINGS SECTION WARNINGS: Keep out of reach of children. Do not use if tamper-evident seal is broken or missing. If symptoms worsen or persist for more than a few days, consult a doctor. If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a doctor before use. WARNINGS: Professional Use Only If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. If condition worsens, seek medical attention. KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Do not use if tamper evident seal is broken or missing. Store in a cool place after opening WARNINGS: IF PREGNANT OR BREAST-FEEDING, ask a health professional before use. If symptoms worsen or persist for more than a week, discontinue use and contact a doctor ​KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN. Warning If symptoms persist, contact a licensed practitioner. If you have known sensitivity to any of the ingredients, please consult your licensed practitioner before use. If you are pregnant or nursing a baby, seek the advice of a health care professional before use. Keep out of the reach of children. Protect from light and heat. Tamper Evident Do not use this product if tamper evident strip is broken or removed from base of cap. WARNINGS: If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health care professional before use. Do not use if tamper evident seal is broken or missing. Store in a cool, dry place. WARNINGS SECTION WARNINGS : Keep out of reach of children. If pregnant or breast-feedin g, ask a doctor before use. WARNINGS SECTION WARNINGS : Keep out of reach of children . Do no use if tamper-evident seal is broken or missing.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Use of phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE-5) inhibitors, such as avanafil, sildenafil, tadalafil, or vardenafil, or soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC) stimulators. ( 4.1 , 7.1 ) • Severe anemia ( 4.2 ) • Increased intracranial pressure ( 4.3 ) • Hypersensitivity to nitroglycerin or to other nitrates or nitrites or any excipient ( 4.4 ) • Circulatory failure and shock ( 4.5 ) 4.1 PDE-5-Inhibitors and sGC-Stimulators Do not use nitroglycerin sublingual tablets in patients who are taking PDE-5 Inhibitors, such as avanafil, sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil hydrochloride. Concomitant use can cause severe hypotension, syncope, or myocardial ischemia [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. Do not use nitroglycerin sublingual tablets in patients who are taking the soluble guanylate cyclase stimulators, such as riociguat. Concomitant use can cause hypotension. 4.2 Severe Anemia Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets are contraindicated in patients with severe anemia (large doses of nitroglycerin may cause oxidation of hemoglobin to methemoglobin and could exacerbate anemia). 4.3 Increased Intracranial Pressure Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets may precipitate or aggravate increased intracranial pressure and thus should not be used in patients with possible increased intracranial pressure (e.g., cerebral hemorrhage or traumatic brain injury). 4.4 Hypersensitivity Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets are contraindicated in patients who are allergic to nitroglycerin, other nitrates or nitrites or any excipient. 4.5 Circulatory Failure and Shock Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets are contraindicated in patients with acute circulatory failure or shock.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Ergotamine: increased bioavailability of ergotamine. Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 PDE-5-Inhibitors and sGC-Stimulators Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets are contraindicated in patients who are using a selective inhibitor of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)-specific phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE-5). PDE-5-Inhibitors such as avanafil, sildenafil, vardenafil, and tadalafil have been shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of organic nitrates. Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets are contraindicated in patients who are taking soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC) stimulators. Concomitant use can cause hypotension. The time course and dose dependence of these interactions have not been studied, and use within a few days of one another is not recommended. Appropriate supportive care for the severe hypotension has not been studied, but it seems reasonable to treat this as a nitrate overdose, with elevation of the extremities and with central volume expansion. 7.2 Ergotamine Oral administration of nitroglycerin markedly decreases the first-pass metabolism of dihydroergotamine and subsequently increases its oral bioavailability. Ergotamine is known to precipitate angina pectoris. Therefore, patients receiving sublingual nitroglycerin should avoid ergotamine and related drugs or be monitored for symptoms of ergotism if this is not possible. Drug interactions Aspirin: Coadministration of nitroglycerin with high dose aspirin (1000 mg) results in increased exposure to nitroglycerin. The vasodilatory and hemodynamic effects of nitroglycerin may be enhanced by concomitant administration of nitroglycerin with high dose aspirin. Tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) : Concomitant administration of t-PA and intravenous nitroglycerin has been shown to reduce plasma levels of t-PA and its thrombolytic effect.

=== HALOPERIDOL ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Haloperidol tablets are indicated for use in the management of manifestations of psychotic disorders. Haloperidol tablets are indicated for the control of tics and vocal utterances of Tourette's Disorder in children and adults. Haloperidol tablets are effective for the treatment of severe behavior problems in children of combative, explosive hyperexcitability (which cannot be accounted for by immediate provocation). Haloperidol tablets are also effective in the short-term treatment of hyperactive children who show excessive motor activity with accompanying conduct disorders consisting of some or all of the following symptoms: impulsivity, difficulty sustaining attention, aggressivity, mood lability, and poor frustration tolerance. Haloperidol tablets should be reserved for these two groups of children only after failure to respond to psychotherapy or medications other than antipsychotics. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Haloperidol tablets, USP are indicated for use in the management of manifestations of psychotic disorders. Haloperidol tablets, USP are indicated for the control of tics and vocal utterances of Tourette’s Disorder in children and adults. Haloperidol tablets, USP are effective for the treatment of severe behavior problems in children of combative, explosive hyperexcitability (which cannot be accounted for by immediate provocation). Haloperidol tablets, USP are also effective in the short-term treatment of hyperactive children who show excessive motor activity with accompanying conduct disorders consisting of some or all of the following symptoms: impulsivity, difficulty sustaining attention, aggressivity, mood lability, and poor frustration tolerance. Haloperidol tablets, USP should be reserved for these two groups of children only after failure to respond to psychotherapy or medications other than antipsychotics. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Haloperidol decanoate injection, 50 mg/mL and haloperidol decanoate injection, 100 mg/mL are indicated for the treatment of patients with schizophrenia who require prolonged parenteral antipsychotic therapy. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Haloperidol is indicated for use in the management of manifestations of psychotic disorders. Haloperidol is indicated for the control of tics and vocal utterances of Tourette’s Disorder in children and adults. Haloperidol is effective for the treatment of severe behavior problems in children of combative, explosive hyperexcitability (which cannot be accounted for by immediate provocation). Haloperidol is also effective in the short-term treatment of hyperactive children who show excessive motor activity with accompanying conduct disorders consisting of some or all of the following symptoms: impulsivity, difficulty sustaining attention, aggressivity, mood lability, and poor frustration tolerance. Haloperidol should be reserved for these two groups of children only after failure to respond to psychotherapy or medications other than antipsychotics. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Haloperidol Decanoate Injection is indicated for the treatment of patients with schizophrenia who require prolonged parenteral antipsychotic therapy. INDICATIONS & USAGE Haloperidol decanoate injection, 50 mg/mL and haloperidol decanoate injection, 100 mg/mL are indicated for the treatment of patients with schizophrenia who require prolonged parenteral antipsychotic therapy. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Haloperidol decanoate injection is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia in adults who were previously taking a stable dosage of an immediate-release oral haloperidol product. Haloperidol decanoate injection is a typical antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia in adults who were previously taking a stable dosage of an immediate-release oral haloperidol product
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION There is considerable variation from patient to patient in the amount of medication required for treatment. As with all antipsychotic drugs, dosage should be individualized according to the needs and response of each patient. Dosage adjustments, either upward or downward, should be carried out as rapidly as practicable to achieve optimum therapeutic control. To determine the initial dosage, consideration should be given to the patient's age, severity of illness, previous response to other antipsychotic drugs, and any concomitant medication or disease state. Children, debilitated or geriatric patients, as well as those with a history of adverse reactions to antipsychotic drugs, may require less haloperidol. The optimal response in such patients is usually obtained with more gradual dosage adjustments and at lower dosage levels, as recommended below. Clinical experience suggests the following recommendations: Oral Administration Initial Dosage Range Adults Moderate Symptomatology - 0.5 mg to 2 mg b.i.d. or t.i.d. Severe Symptomatology - 3 mg to 5 mg b.i.d. To achieve prompt control, higher doses may be required in some cases. Geriatric or Debilitated Patients - 0.5 mg to 2 mg b.i.d. Chronic or Resistant Patients - 3 mg to 5 mg b.i.d. Patients who remain severely disturbed or inadequately controlled may require dosage adjustment. Daily dosages up to 100 mg may be necessary in some cases to achieve an optimal response. Infrequently, haloperidol has been used in doses above 100 mg for severely resistant patients; however, the limited clinical usage has not demonstrated the safety of prolonged administration of such doses. Children The following recommendations apply to children between the ages of 3 and 12 years (weight range 15 kg to 40 kg). Haloperidol is not intended for children under 3 years old. Therapy should begin at the lowest dose possible (0.5 mg per day). If required, the dose should be increased by an increment of 0.5 mg at 5 to 7 day intervals until the desired therapeutic effect is obtained. (See chart below.) The total dose may be divided, to be given b.i.d. Psychotic Disorders - 0.05 mg/kg/day to 0.15 mg/kg/day Nonpsychotic Behavior Disorders and Tourette's Disorder - 0.05 mg/kg/day to 0.075 mg/kg/day Severely disturbed psychotic children may require higher doses. In severely disturbed, non-psychotic children or in hyperactive children with accompanying conduct disorders, who have failed to respond to psychotherapy or medications other than antipsychotics, it should be noted that since these behaviors may be short lived, short term administration of haloperidol may suffice. There is no evidence establishing a maximum effective dosage. There is little evidence that behavior improvement is further enhanced in dosages beyond 6 mg per day. Maintenance Dosage Upon achieving a satisfactory therapeutic response, dosage should then be gradually reduced to the lowest effective maintenance level. Switchover Procedure The oral form should supplant the injectable as soon as practicable. In the absence of bioavailability studies establishing bioequivalence between these two dosage forms the following guidelines for dosage are suggested. For an initial approximation of the total daily dose required, the parenteral dose administered in the preceding 24 hours may be used. Since this dose is only an initial estimate, it is recommended that careful monitoring of clinical signs and symptoms, including clinical efficacy, sedation, and adverse effects, be carried out periodically for the first several days following the initiation of switchover. In this way, dosage adjustments, either upward or downward, can be quickly accomplished. Depending on the patient's clinical status, the first oral dose should be given within 12 to 24 hours following the last parenteral dose. To determine the initial dosage, consideration should be given to the patient’s age, severity of illness, previous response to other antipsychotic drugs, and any concomitant medication or disease state. Infrequently haloperidol has been used in doses above 100 mg for severely resistant patients; however the limited clinical usage has not demonstrated the safety of prolonged administration of such doses. Psychotic Disorders - 0.05 mg/kg/day to 0.15 mg/kg/day Nonpsychotic Behavior Disorders and Tourette’s Disorder - 0.05 mg/kg/day to 0.075 mg/kg/day Severely disturbed psychotic children may require higher doses. Depending on the patient’s clinical status, the first oral dose should be given within 12 to 24 hours following the last parenteral dose. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Haloperidol decanoate injection, 50 mg/mL and haloperidol decanoate injection, 100 mg/mL should be administered by deep intramuscular injection. A 21 gauge needle is recommended. The maximum volume per injection site should not exceed 3 mL. DO NOT ADMINISTER INTRAVENOUSLY. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Haloperidol decanoate injection, 50 mg/mL and haloperidol decanoate injection, 100 mg/mL are intended for use in schizophrenic patients who require prolonged parenteral antipsychotic therapy. These patients must be previously stabilized on antipsychotic medication before considering a conversion to haloperidol decanoate. Furthermore, it is recommended that patients being considered for haloperidol decanoate therapy have been treated with, and tolerate well, short-acting haloperidol in order to reduce the possibility of an unexpected adverse sensitivity to haloperidol. Close clinical supervision is required during the initial period of dose adjustment in order to minimize the risk of overdosage or reappearance of psychotic symptoms before the next injection. During dose adjustment or episodes of exacerbation of symptoms of schizophrenia, haloperidol decanoate therapy can be supplemented with short-acting forms of haloperidol. The dose of haloperidol decanoate injection, 50 mg/mL or haloperidol decanoate injection, 100 mg/mL should be expressed in terms of its haloperidol content. The starting dose of haloperidol decanoate should be based on the patient's age, clinical history, physical condition, and response to previous antipsychotic therapy. The preferred approach to determining the minimum effective dose is to begin with lower initial doses and to adjust the dose upward as needed. For patients previously maintained on low doses of antipsychotics (e.g. up to the equivalent of 10 mg/day oral haloperidol), it is recommended that the initial dose of haloperidol decanoate be 10–15 times the previous daily dose in oral haloperidol equivalents; limited clinical experience suggests that lower initial doses may be adequate. Initial Therapy Conversion from oral haloperidol to haloperidol decanoate can be achieved by using an initial dose of haloperidol decanoate that is 10 to 20 times the previous daily dose in oral haloperidol equivalents. In patients who are elderly, debilitated, or stable on low doses of oral haloperidol (e.g. up to the equivalent of 10 mg/day oral haloperidol), a range of 10 to 15 times the previous daily dose in oral haloperidol equivalents is appropriate for initial conversion. In patients previously maintained on higher doses of antipsychotics for whom a low dose approach risks recurrence of psychiatric decompensation and in patients whose long-term use of haloperidol has resulted in a tolerance to the drug, 20 times the previous daily dose in oral haloperidol equivalents should be considered for initial conversion, with downward titration on succeeding injections. The initial dose of haloperidol decanoate should not exceed 100 mg regardless of previous antipsychotic dose requirements. If, therefore, conversion requires more than 100 mg of haloperidol decanoate as an initial dose, that dose should be administered in two injections, i.e. a maximum of 100 mg initially followed by the balance in 3 to 7 days. Maintenance Therapy The maintenance dosage of haloperidol decanoate must be individualized with titration upward or downward based on therapeutic response. The usual maintenance range is 10 to 15 times the previous daily dose in oral haloperidol equivalents dependent on the clinical response of the patient. HALOPERIDOL DECANOATE DOSING RECOMMENDATIONS Patients Monthly 1 st Month Maintenance Stabilized on low daily oral doses (up to 10 mg/day) Elderly or Debilitated 10–15 × Daily Oral Dose 10–15 × Previous Daily Oral Dose High dose Risk of relapse Tolerant to oral haloperidol 20 × Daily Oral Dose 10–15 × Previous Daily Oral Dose Close clinical supervision is required during initiation and stabilization of haloperidol decanoate therapy. Haloperidol decanoate is usually administered monthly or every 4 weeks. However, variation in patient response may dictate a need for adjustment of the dosing interval as well as the dose (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). Clinical experience with haloperidol decanoate at doses greater than 450 mg per month has been limited. Clinical experience suggests the following recommendations: Oral Administration Initial Dosage Range Adults Moderate Symptomatology 0.5 mg to 2 mg b.i.d. Severe Symptomatology 3 mg to 5 mg b.i.d. Geriatric or Debilitated Patients 0.5 mg to 2 mg b.i.d. Chronic or Resistant Patients 3 mg to 5 mg b.i.d. Children The following recommendations apply to children between the ages of 3 and 12 years (weight range 15 to 40 kg). (see chart below). The total dose may be divided, to be given b.i.d. Psychotic Disorders 0.05 mg/kg/day to 0.15 mg/kg/day Non-Psychotic Behavior Disorders and Tourette’s Disorder 0.05 mg/kg/day to 0.075 mg/kg/day Severely disturbed psychotic children may require higher doses. In severely disturbed, non-psychotic children or in hyperactive children with accompanying conduct disorders, who have failed to respond to psychotherapy or medications other than antipsychotics, it should be noted that since these behaviors may be short-lived, short-term administration of haloperidol may suffice. In the absence of bioavailability studies establishing bioequivalence between these two dosage forms, the following guidelines for dosage are suggested. Depending on the patient’s clinical status, the first oral dose should be given within 12-24 hours following the last parenteral dose. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Haloperidol decanoate injection should be administered by deep intramuscular injection. Haloperidol decanoate injection is intended for use in schizophrenic patients who require prolonged parenteral antipsychotic therapy. The dose of haloperidol decanoate injection should be expressed in terms of its haloperidol content. For patients previously maintained on low doses of antipsychotics (e.g., up to the equivalent of 10 mg/day oral haloperidol), it is recommended that the initial dose of haloperidol decanoate be 10-15 times the previous daily dose in oral haloperidol equivalents; limited clinical experience suggests that lower initial doses may be adequate. In patients who are elderly, debilitated, or stable on low doses of oral haloperidol (e.g., up to the equivalent of 10 mg/day oral haloperidol), a range of 10 to 15 times the previous daily dose in oral haloperidol equivalents is appropriate for initial conversion. If, therefore, conversion requires more than 100 mg of haloperidol decanoate as an initial dose, that dose should be administered in two injections, i.e., a maximum of 100 mg initially followed by the balance in 3 to 7 days. HALOPERIDOL DECANOATE DOSING RECOMMENDATIONS Monthly Patients 1 st Month Maintenance Stabilized on low daily oral doses (up to 10 mg/day) 10-15 x Daily Oral Dose 10-15 x Previous Daily Oral Dose Elderly or Debilitated High dose Risk of relapse 20 x Daily Oral Dose 10-15 x Previous Daily Oral Dose Tolerant to oral haloperidol Close clinical supervision is required during initiation and stabilization of haloperidol decanoate therapy. However, variation in patient response may dictate a need for adjustment of the dosing interval as well as the dose (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Haloperidol decanoate injection, 50 mg/mL and haloperidol decanoate injection, 100 mg/mL should be administered by deep intramuscular injection. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer haloperidol decanoate by deep intramuscular injection every 4 weeks by a healthcare provider. Do not administer intravenously ( 2.1 ). • For the recommended dosage, including the first recommended dose and the maintenance dosage, see the Dosage and Administration section ( 2.1 ). • If schizophrenia symptoms worsen during dosage modification of haloperidol decanoate injection, consider administering an immediate-release oral haloperidol product in addition to haloperidol decanoate injection therapy ( 2.2 ). 2.1 Recommended Dosage and Administration Administer haloperidol decanoate by deep intramuscular injection every 4 weeks by a health care professional. Do not administer haloperidol decanoate injection intravenously. When injecting haloperidol decanoate, use a 21-gauge needle. The maximum volume per injection site is 3 mL. Table 1 below describes the recommended dosage for haloperidol decanoate. The maximum recommended initial dose is 100 mg. If the calculated first recommended dose of haloperidol decanoate is greater than 100 mg, then administer two deep intramuscular injections as follows: • 100 mg on the first day • Remainder of the amount 3 to 7 days later. Table 1: Haloperidol decanoate Recommended Dosage Population First Recommended Dose Maintenance Dosage 1 Adult patients less than 65 years old stabilized on ≤ 10 mg of daily immediate-release oral haloperidol with normal hepatic function. 10 to 15 times previous daily dose of immediate-release oral haloperidol. 10 to 15 times previous daily dose of immediate-release oral haloperidol administered every 4 weeks. The dosage may be increased by increments of 50 mg or less every 4 weeks until an optimal therapeutic effect is obtained. The typical effective dosage range is between 50 and 200 mg every 4 weeks. Adult patients less than 65 years old stabilized on ≤ 10 mg of daily immediate-release oral haloperidol with hepatic impairment OR Adult patients 65 years and older 10 to 15 times previous daily dose of immediate-release oral haloperidol. Consider starting at the low end of the dosing range [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5, 8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Adult patients less than 65 years old stabilized on >10 mg of daily immediate-release oral haloperidol 10 to 20 times previous daily dose of immediate-release oral haloperidol 10 to 15 times previous daily dose of immediate-release oral haloperidol administered every 4 weeks. 1 Clinical experience with haloperidol decanoate at a dosage greater than 450 mg every 4 weeks has been limited. 2.2 Recommended Supplemental Immediate-release Oral Haloperidol Therapy If schizophrenia symptoms worsen during dosage modification of haloperidol decanoate, consider administering an immediate-release oral haloperidol product in addition to haloperidol decanoate therapy. Psychotic Disorders 0.05 mg/kg/day to 0.15 mg/kg/day Non-Psychotic Behavior Disorders and Tourette's Disorder 0.05 mg/kg/day to 0.075 mg/kg/day Severely disturbed psychotic children may require higher doses.
Warnings: WARNINGS Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. Haloperidol is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis (see BOXED WARNING). Cardiovascular Effects Cases of sudden death, QT-prolongation, and Torsades de pointes have been reported in patients receiving haloperidol. Higher than recommended doses of any formulation of haloperidol appear to be associated with a higher risk of QT-prolongation and Torsades de pointes. Although cases have been reported even in the absence of predisposing factors, particular caution is advised in treating patients with other QT-prolonging conditions (including electrolyte imbalance [particularly hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia], drugs known to prolong QT, underlying cardiac abnormalities, hypothyroidism, and familial long QT-syndrome). Tardive Dyskinesia A syndrome consisting of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements may develop in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs. Although the prevalence of the syndrome appears to be highest among the elderly, especially elderly women, it is impossible to rely upon prevalence estimates to predict, at the inception of antipsychotic treatment, which patients are likely to develop the syndrome. Whether antipsychotic drug products differ in their potential to cause tardive dyskinesia is unknown. Both the risk of developing tardive dyskinesia and the likelihood that it will become irreversible are believed to increase as the duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose of antipsychotic drugs administered to the patient increase. However, the syndrome can develop, although much less commonly, after relatively brief treatment periods at low doses. There is no known treatment for established cases of tardive dyskinesia, although the syndrome may remit, partially or completely, if antipsychotic treatment is withdrawn. Antipsychotic treatment, itself, however, may suppress (or partially suppress) the signs and symptoms of the syndrome and thereby may possibly mask the underlying process. The effect that symptomatic suppression has upon the long-term course of the syndrome is unknown. Given these considerations, antipsychotic drugs should be prescribed in a manner that is most likely to minimize the occurrence of tardive dyskinesia. Chronic antipsychotic treatment should generally be reserved for patients who suffer from a chronic illness that, 1) is known to respond to antipsychotic drugs, and, 2) for whom alternative, equally effective, but potentially less harmful treatments are not available or appropriate. In patients who do require chronic treatment, the smallest dose and the shortest duration of treatment producing a satisfactory clinical response should be sought. The need for continued treatment should be reassessed periodically. If signs and symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear in a patient on antipsychotics, drug discontinuation should be considered. However, some patients may require treatment despite the presence of the syndrome. (For further information about the description of tardive dyskinesia and its clinical detection, please refer to ADVERSE REACTIONS.) Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs. Clinical manifestations of NMS are hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status (including catatonic signs) and evidence of autonomic instability (irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, and cardiac dysrhythmias). Additional signs may include elevated creatine phosphokinase, myoglobinuria (rhabdomyolysis) and acute renal failure. The diagnostic evaluation of patients with this syndrome is complicated. In arriving at a diagnosis, it is important to identify cases where the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness (e.g., pneumonia, systemic infection, etc.) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms (EPS). Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity, heat stroke, drug fever and primary central nervous system (CNS) pathology. The management of NMS should include 1) immediate discontinuation of antipsychotic drugs and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy, 2) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring, and 3) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. There is no general agreement about specific pharmacological treatment regimens for uncomplicated NMS. If a patient requires antipsychotic drug treatment after recovery from NMS, the potential reintroduction of drug therapy should be carefully considered. The patient should be carefully monitored, since recurrences of NMS have been reported. Hyperpyrexia and heat stroke, not associated with the above symptom complex, have also been reported with haloperidol. Falls Haloperidol tablets may cause somnolence, postural hypotension, motor and sensory instability, which may lead to falls and, consequently, fractures or other injuries. For patients with diseases, conditions, or medications that could exacerbate these effects, complete fall risk assessments when initiating antipsychotic treatment and recurrently for patients on long-term antipsychotic therapy. Usage in Pregnancy Pregnancy Nonteratogenic Effects Neonates exposed to antipsychotic drugs, during the third trimester of pregnancy are at risk for extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms following delivery. There have been reports of agitation, hypertonia, hypotonia, tremor, somnolence, respiratory distress and feeding disorder in these neonates. These complications have varied in severity; while in some cases symptoms have been self-limited, in other cases neonates have required intensive care unit support and prolonged hospitalization. Haloperidol should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Rodents given 2 to 20 times the usual maximum human dose of haloperidol by oral or parenteral routes showed an increase in incidence of resorption, reduced fertility, delayed delivery and pup mortality. No teratogenic effect has been reported in rats, rabbits or dogs at dosages within this range, but cleft palate has been observed in mice given 15 times the usual maximum human does. Cleft palate in mice appears to be a nonspecific response to stress or nutritional imbalance as well as to a variety of drugs, and there is no evidence to relate this phenomenon to predictable human risk for most of these agents. There are no well controlled studies with haloperidol in pregnant women. There are reports, however, of cases of limb malformations observed following maternal use of haloperidol along with other drugs which have suspected teratogenic potential during the first trimester of pregnancy. Causal relationships were not established in these cases. Since such experience does not exclude the possibility of fetal damage due to haloperidol, this drug should be used during pregnancy or in women likely to become pregnant only if the benefit clearly justifies a potential risk to the fetus. Infants should not be nursed during drug treatment. Combined Use of Haloperidol and Lithium An encephalopathic syndrome (characterized by weakness, lethargy, fever, tremulousness and confusion, extrapyramidal symptoms, leukocytosis, elevated serum enzymes, BUN, and FBS) followed by irreversible brain damage has occurred in a few patients treated with lithium plus haloperidol. A causal relationship between these events and the concomitant administration of lithium and haloperidol has not been established; however, patients receiving such combined therapy should be monitored closely for early evidence of neurological toxicity and treatment discontinued promptly if such signs appear. General A number of cases of bronchopneumonia, some fatal, have followed the use of antipsychotic drugs, including haloperidol. It has been postulated that lethargy and decreased sensation of thirst due to central inhibition may lead to dehydration, hemoconcentration and reduced pulmonary ventilation. Therefore, if the above signs and symptoms appear, especially in the elderly, the physician should institute remedial therapy promptly. Although not reported with haloperidol, decreased serum cholesterol and/or cutaneous and ocular changes have been reported in patients receiving chemically-related drugs. Haloperidol may impair the mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of hazardous tasks such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle. The ambulatory patient should be warned accordingly. The use of alcohol with this drug should be avoided due to possible additive effects and hypotension. Haloperidol is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis (see BOXED WARNING ). (For further information about the description of tardive dyskinesia and its clinical detection, please refer to ADVERSE REACTIONS .) Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs. Falls Haloperidol tablets, USP may cause somnolence, postural hypotension, motor and sensory instability, which may lead to falls and, consequently, fractures or other injuries. No teratogenic effect has been reported in rats, rabbits or dogs at dosages within this range, but cleft palate has been observed in mice given 15 times the usual maximum human dose. Haloperidol decanoate is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis (see BOXED WARNING). Cardiovascular Effects Cases of sudden death, QTc interval-prolongation, and Torsades de Pointes have been reported in patients receiving haloperidol (see ADVERSE REACTIONS). Higher than recommended doses of any formulation and intravenous administration of haloperidol appear to be associated with a higher risk of QTc interval-prolongation and Torsades de Pointes. Also, a QTc interval that exceeds 500 msec is associated with an increased risk of Torsades de Pointes. Although cases have been reported even in the absence of predisposing factors, particular caution is advised in treating patients with other QTc prolonging conditions (including electrolyte imbalance [particularly hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia], drugs known to prolong QTc, underlying cardiac abnormalities, hypothyroidism, and familial long QT-syndrome). HALOPERIDOL DECANOATE MUST NOT BE ADMINISTERED INTRAVENOUSLY. Tachycardia and hypotension (including orthostatic hypotension) have also been reported in occasional patients (see ADVERSE REACTIONS). Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions In controlled trials, elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with some antipsychotics had an increased risk (compared to placebo) of cerebrovascular adverse reactions (e.g., stroke, transient ischemic attack), including fatalities. The mechanism for this increased risk is not known. An increased risk cannot be excluded for haloperidol decanoate, other antipsychotics, or other patient populations. Haloperidol decanoate should be used with caution in patients with risk factors for cerebrovascular adverse reactions. Tardive Dyskinesia A syndrome consisting of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements may develop in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs (see ADVERSE REACTIONS). Tardive dyskinesia, may remit, partially or completely, if antipsychotic treatment is discontinued. Chronic antipsychotic treatment should generally be reserved for patients who suffer from a chronic illness that 1) is known to respond to antipsychotic drugs, and 2) for whom alternative, equally effective, but potentially less harmful treatments are not available or appropriate. Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs (see ADVERSE REACTIONS). In arriving at a diagnosis, it is important to identify cases where the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness (e.g., pneumonia, systemic infection, etc.) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms. Neurological Adverse Reactions in Patients with Parkinson's Disease or Dementia with Lewy Bodies Patients with Parkinson's Disease or Dementia with Lewy Bodies are reported to have an increased sensitivity to antipsychotic medication. Manifestations of this increased sensitivity with haloperidol treatment include severe extrapyramidal symptoms, confusion, sedation, and falls. In addition, haloperidol may impair the antiparkinson effects of levodopa and other dopamine agonists. Haloperidol decanoate is contraindicated in patients with Parkinson's Disease or Dementia with Lewy Bodies (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions with haloperidol. These include anaphylactic reaction, angioedema, dermatitis exfoliative, hypersensitivity vasculitis, rash, urticaria, face edema, laryngeal edema, bronchospasm, and laryngospasm (see ADVERSE REACTIONS). Haloperidol decanoate is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to this drug (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). Falls Motor instability, somnolence, and orthostatic hypotension have been reported with the use of antipsychotics, including haloperidol decanoate, which may lead to falls and, consequently, fractures or other fall-related injuries. For patients, particularly the elderly, with diseases, conditions, or medications that could exacerbate these effects, assess the risk of falls when initiating antipsychotic treatment and recurrently during treatment. Combined Use of Haloperidol and Lithium An encephalopathic syndrome (characterized by weakness, lethargy, fever, tremulousness and confusion, extrapyramidal symptoms, leukocytosis, elevated serum enzymes, BUN, and fasting blood sugar) followed by irreversible brain damage has occurred in a few patients treated with lithium plus haloperidol. (For further information about the description of tardive dyskinesia and its clinical detection, please refer to ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs. Usage In Pregnancy Non-teratogenic Effects Neonates exposed to antipsychotic drugs, during the third trimester of pregnancy are at risk for extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms following delivery. Haloperidol decanoate is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis (see BOXED WARNING ). Cardiovascular Effects Cases of sudden death, QTc interval-prolongation, and Torsades de Pointes have been reported in patients receiving haloperidol (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Although cases have been reported even in the absence of predisposing factors, particular caution is advised in treating patients with other QTc-prolonging conditions (including electrolyte imbalance [particularly hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia], drugs known to prolong QTc, underlying cardiac abnormalities, hypothyroidism, and familial long QT-syndrome). Tachycardia and hypotension (including orthostatic hypotension) have also been reported in occasional patients (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Tardive Dyskinesia A syndrome consisting of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements may develop in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Haloperidol decanoate is contraindicated in patients with Parkinson's Disease or Dementia with Lewy Bodies (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). These include anaphylactic reaction, angioedema, dermatitis exfoliative, hypersensitivity vasculitis, rash, urticaria, face edema, laryngeal edema, bronchospasm, and laryngospasm (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Haloperidol decanoate is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to this drug (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Haloperidol tablets are contraindicated in severe toxic central nervous system depression or comatose states from any cause and in individuals who are hypersensitive to this drug or have Parkinson's disease. CONTRAINDICATIONS Haloperidol tablets, USP are contraindicated in severe toxic central nervous system depression or comatose states from any cause and in individuals who are hypersensitive to this drug or have Parkinson’s disease. CONTRAINDICATIONS Since the pharmacologic and clinical actions of haloperidol decanoate injection, 50 mg/mL and haloperidol decanoate injection, 100 mg/mL are attributed to haloperidol as the active medication, Contraindications, Warnings, and additional information are those of haloperidol, modified only to reflect the prolonged action. Haloperidol is contraindicated in patients with: Severe toxic central nervous system depression or comatose states from any cause. Hypersensitivity to this drug – hypersensitivity reactions have included anaphylactic reaction and angioedema (see WARNINGS, Hypersensitivity Reactions and ADVERSE REACTIONS). Parkinson's disease (see WARNINGS, Neurological Adverse Reactions in Patients with Parkinson's Disease or Dementia with Lewy Bodies). Dementia with Lewy bodies (see WARNINGS, Neurological Adverse Reactions in Patients with Parkinson's Disease or Dementia with Lewy Bodies). CONTRAINDICATIONS Haloperidol is contraindicated in severe toxic central nervous system depression or comatose states from any cause and in individuals who are hypersensitive to this drug or have Parkinson’s disease. CONTRAINDICATIONS Since the pharmacologic and clinical actions of haloperidol decanoate injection are attributed to haloperidol as the active medication, Contraindications, Warnings, and additional information are those of haloperidol, modified only to reflect the prolonged action. Hypersensitivity to this drug – hypersensitivity reactions have included anaphylactic reaction and angioedema (see WARNINGS, Hypersensitivity Reactions and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Parkinson's disease (see WARNINGS, Neurological Adverse Reactions in Patients with Parkinson's Disease or Dementia with Lewy Bodies ). Dementia with Lewy bodies (see WARNINGS, Neurological Adverse Reactions in Patients with Parkinson's Disease or Dementia with Lewy Bodies ). Parkinson's disease (see WARNINGS , Neurological Adverse Reactions in Patients with Parkinson's Disease or Dementia with Lewy Bodies). Dementia with Lewy bodies (see WARNINGS , Neurological Adverse Reactions in Patients with Parkinson's Disease or Dementia with Lewy Bodies). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Haloperidol decanoate injection is contraindicated in patients with: • Severe toxic central nervous system depression or comatose states from any cause. • Known hypersensitivity to haloperidol or any components of haloperidol decanoate injection. Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactic reactions and angioedema, have been reported in patients treated with haloperidol [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )]. • Parkinson’s disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )]. • Dementia with Lewy bodies [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )]. • Severe toxic central nervous system depression or comatose states from any cause ( 4 ). • Known hypersensitivity to haloperidol or any components of haloperidol decanoate injection ( 4 ). • Parkinson’s disease ( 4 , 5.7 , 6.1 ). • Dementia with Lewy bodies ( 4 , 5.7 ).
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Drug-drug interactions can be pharmacodynamic (combined pharmacologic effects) or pharmacokinetic (alteration of plasma levels). The risks of using haloperidol in combination with other drugs have been evaluated as described below. Pharmacodynamic Interactions Since QTc interval-prolongation has been observed during haloperidol treatment, caution is advised when prescribing to a patient with QT-prolongation conditions or to patients receiving medications known to prolong the QTc-interval (see WARNINGS, Cardiovascular Effects ). Examples include (but are not limited to): Class 1A antiarrhythmics (e.g., procainamide, quinidine, disopyramide); Class 3 antiarrhythmics (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol); and other drugs such as citalopram, erythromycin, levofloxacin, methadone, and ziprasidone. Caution is advised when haloperidol decanoate is used in combination with drugs known to cause electrolyte imbalance (e.g., diuretics or corticosteroids) because hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, and hypocalcemia are risk factors for QT prolongation. As with other antipsychotic agents, it should be noted that haloperidol may be capable of potentiating CNS depressants such as anesthetics, opioids, and alcohol. Pharmacokinetic Interactions Drugs that May Increase Haloperidol Plasma Concentrations Haloperidol is metabolized by several routes. The major pathways are glucuronidation and ketone reduction. The cytochrome P450 enzyme system is also involved, particularly CYP3A4 and, to a lesser extent, CYP2D6. Inhibition of these routes of metabolism by another drug or a decrease in CYP2D6 enzyme may result in increased haloperidol concentrations. The effect of CYP3A4 inhibition and of decreased CYP2D6 enzyme may be additive. The haloperidol plasma concentrations increased when a CYP3A4 and/or CYP2D6 inhibitor was coadministered with haloperidol. Examples include: CYP3A4 inhibitors - alprazolam; itraconazole, ketoconazole, nefazodone, ritonavir. CYP2D6 inhibitors - chlorpromazine; promethazine; quinidine; paroxetine, sertraline, venlafaxine. Combined CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitors - fluoxetine, fluvoxamine; ritonavir. Buspirone. Increased haloperidol plasma concentrations may result in an increased risk of adverse events, including QTc interval prolongation (see WARNINGS, Cardiovascular Effects ). Increases in QTc have been observed when haloperidol was given with a combination of the metabolic inhibitors ketoconazole (400 mg/day) and paroxetine (20 mg/day). It is recommended that patients who take haloperidol concomitantly with such medicinal products be monitored for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged pharmacologic effects of haloperidol, and the haloperidol decanoate dose be decreased as deemed necessary. Valproate Sodium valproate, a drug known to inhibit glucuronidation, does not affect haloperidol plasma concentrations. Drugs that May Decrease Haloperidol Plasma Concentrations Coadministration of haloperidol with potent enzyme inducers of CYP3A4 may gradually decrease the plasma concentrations of haloperidol to such an extent that efficacy may be reduced. Examples include (but are not limited to): carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifampin, St John's Wort ( Hypericum, perforatum ). Rifampin In a study of 12 patients with schizophrenia coadministered oral haloperidol and rifampin, plasma haloperidol levels were decreased by a mean of 70% and mean scores on the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale were increased from baseline. In 5 other patients with schizophrenia treated with oral haloperidol and rifampin, discontinuation of rifampin produced a mean 3.3-fold increase in haloperidol concentrations. Carbamazepine In a study in 11 patients with schizophrenia coadministered haloperidol and increasing doses of carbamazepine, haloperidol plasma concentrations decreased linearly with increasing carbamazepine concentrations. During combination treatment with inducers of CYP3A4, it is recommended that patients be monitored and the haloperidol decanoate dose increased or the dosage interval adjusted, as deemed necessary. After withdrawal of the CYP3A4 inducer, the concentration of haloperidol may gradually increase and therefore it may be necessary to reduce the dose of haloperidol decanoate, or adjust the dosage interval. Effect of Haloperidol on Other Drugs Haloperidol is an inhibitor of CYP2D6. Plasma concentrations of CYP2D6 substrates (e,g., tricyclic antidepressants such as desipramine or imipramine) may increase when they are coadministered with haloperidol. Examples include: CYP3A4 inhibitors – alprazolam; itraconazole, ketoconazole, nefazodone, ritonavir. CYP2D6 inhibitors – chlorpromazine; promethazine; quinidine; paroxetine, sertraline, venlafaxine. Combined CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitors – fluoxetine, fluvoxamine; ritonavir. Increased haloperidol plasma concentrations may result in an increased risk of adverse events, including QTc interval prolongation (see WARNINGS – Cardiovascular Effects ). Valproate: Sodium valproate, a drug known to inhibit glucuronidation, does not affect haloperidol plasma concentrations. Drugs that May Decrease Haloperidol Plasma Concentrations Coadministration of haloperidol with potent enzyme inducers of CYP3A4 may gradually decrease the plasma concentrations of haloperidol to such an extent that efficacy maybe reduced. Examples include (but are not limited to): carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifampin, St John's Wort ( Hypericum, perforatum). Rifampin: In a study of 12 patients with schizophrenia coadministered oral haloperidol and rifampin, plasma haloperidol levels were decreased by a mean of 70% and mean scores on the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale were increased from baseline. Carbamazepine: In a study in 11 patients with schizophrenia coadministered haloperidol and increasing doses of carbamazepine, haloperidol plasma concentrations decreased linearly with increasing carbamazepine concentrations. Plasma concentrations of CYP2D6 substrates (e,g. tricyclic antidepressants such as desipramine or imipramine) may increase when they are co-administered with haloperidol. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Drugs that Prolong QTc Interval: Avoid concomitant use with haloperidol decanoate ( 7.1 ). • See full prescribing information for additional clinically significant drug interactions with haloperidol decanoate ( 7.2 ). 7.1 Drugs that Prolong the QTc Interval Avoid concomitant use of haloperidol decanoate with other drugs with a known potential to prolong the QTc interval. If concomitant use cannot be avoided [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]: • Obtain ECGs when initiating and during concomitant use as clinically indicated. • Obtain serum electrolytes (including potassium, calcium, phosphorus, and magnesium) when initiating and during concomitant use as clinically indicated. QTc interval prolongation has been observed with haloperidol decanoate treatment. Concomitant use of haloperidol decanoate with other products that prolong the QTc interval may result in a greater increase in the QTc interval, and adverse reactions associated with QTc interval prolongation, including torsade de pointes, other serious arrythmias, and sudden death [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. 7.2 Other Clinically Significant Drug Interactions Table 3 describes other clinically significant drug interactions of haloperidol decanoate. Table 3: Other Clinically Significant Drugs Interactions 1 CNS Depressants Clinical Impact Haloperidol may potentiate CNS depressants. Prevention or Management Avoid concomitant use of haloperidol decanoate with CNS depressants such as anesthetics, opioids, and alcohol. CYP3A4 and/or CYP2D6 Inhibitors Clinical Impact CYP3A4 and/or CYP2D6 inhibitors increase haloperidol exposure (haloperidol is a CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 substrate) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Concomitant use of haloperidol decanoate and CYP3A4 and/or CYP2D6 inhibitors may increase the risk of haloperidol-associated adverse reactions. Prevention or Management Monitor for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged pharmacologic effects of haloperidol. Decrease the dosage of haloperidol decanoate as clinically necessary. CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact CYP3A4 inducers decrease haloperidol exposure (haloperidol is a CYP3A4 substrate) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Concomitant use of haloperidol decanoate with CYP3A4 inducers may reduce the effectiveness of haloperidol decanoate. Prevention or Management Monitor patients and if necessary, increase the dosage of haloperidol decanoate. CYP2D6 Substrates Clinical Impact Haloperidol is a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Plasma concentrations of CYP2D6 substrates may increase when they are concomitantly administered with haloperidol decanoate. Prevention or Management Monitor plasma concentrations of the CYP2D6 substrate, if possible. Consider reducing the dosage of the CYP2D6 substrate, if necessary. Refer to the Prescribing Information of the CYP2D6 substrate. Dopaminergic Drugs Clinical Impact Haloperidol may antagonize the effects of levodopa, dopamine agonists, and other drugs intended to increase dopamine levels. Prevention or Management Haloperidol decanoate is contraindicated in patients with Parkinson’s disease and dementia with Lewy bodies. For conditions other than Parkinson’s disease and dementia with Lewy bodies, when possible, avoid concomitant use of haloperidol decanoate with dopaminergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )]. Anticholinergic Drugs Clinical Impact The healthcare provider should keep in mind the possible increase in intraocular pressure when anticholinergic drugs are administered concomitantly with haloperidol decanoate. Prevention or Management Monitor and manage patients as clinically appropriate. Lithium Clinical Impact Concomitant use of haloperidol decanoate with lithium may cause an encephalopathic syndrome followed by irreversible brain damage [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )]. Prevention or Management Monitor patients who concomitantly use haloperidol decanoate with lithium closely for early signs of neurological toxicity, and discontinue haloperidol decanoate or both haloperidol decanoate and lithium promptly if such signs appear. 1 See www.fda.gov/CYPandTransporterInteractingDrugs for examples of CYP3A4 and/or CYP2D6 inhibitors, CYP3A4 inducers, and CYP2D6 substrates.

=== LOPERAMIDE HCL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Anti-diarrheal Purpose Purpose Anti-diarrheal Purpose Antidiarrheal Purposes Anti-diarrheal Anti-gas
Indications: Use controls symptoms of diarrhea, including Travelers’ Diarrhea Use ​Use Controls symptoms of diarrhea, including Travelers’ Diarrhea Uses Controls the symptoms of diarrhea, including Travelers diarrhea. Uses relieves symptoms of diarrhea plus bloating, pressure and cramps, commonly referred to as gas Uses controls symptoms of diarrhea, including Travelers' Diarrhea Use controls symptoms of diarrhea, including Travelers' Diarrhea
Dosage: Directions • drink plenty of clear fluids to help prevent dehydration caused by diarrhea • find right dose on chart. If possible, use weight to dose; otherwise use age. • shake well before using • use only enclosed dosing cup specifically designed for use with this product. Do not use any other dosing device. • mL = milliliter adults and children 12 years and over 30 mL after the first loose stool; 15 mL after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 60 mL in 24 hours children 9-11 years (60-95 lbs) 15 mL after the first loose stool; 7.5 mL after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 45 mL in 24 hours children 6-8 years (48-59 lbs) 15 mL after the first loose stool; 7.5 mL after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 30 mL in 24 hours children 2-5 years (34 to 47 lbs) ask a doctor children under 2 years (up to 33 lbs) do not use Directions Directions drink plenty of clear fluids to help prevent dehydration caused by diarrhea find right dose on chart. adults and children 12 years and over 2 caplets after the first loose stool; 1 caplet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 4 caplets in 24 hours children 9 - 11 years (60 - 95 lbs) 1 caplet after the first loose stool; 1/2 caplet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 3 caplets in 24 hours children 6 - 8 years (48 - 59 lbs) 1 caplet after the first loose stool; 1/2 caplet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 2 caplets in 24 hours children 2 - 5 years (34 - 47 lbs) ask a doctor children under 2 (up to 33 lbs) do not use Directions do not use more than directed drink plenty of clear fluids to help prevent dehydration caused by diarrhea Adults and children (12 years and older): Take 2 caplets after the first loose stool followed by 1 caplet after each subsequent loose stool but no more than 4 caplets in 24 hours. Children under 12 years: Do not give to children under 12 years of age. Directions • drink plenty of clear fluids to help prevent dehydration caused by diarrhea • take only on an empty stomach (1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal) • take with a full (8 oz.) glass of water • find right dose on chart below. If possible, use weight to dose; otherwise, use age. adults and children 12 years and over 2 caplets after the first loose stool; 1 caplet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 4 caplets in 24 hours children 9-11 years (60-95 lbs) 1 caplet after the first loose stool; 1/2 caplet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 3 caplets in 24 hours children 6-8 years (48-59 lbs) 1 caplet after the first loose stool; 1/2 caplet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 2 caplets in 24 hours children 2-5 years (34 to 47 lbs) ask a doctor children under 2 years (upto 33 lbs) do not use Other information • calcium: contains 142 mg/caplet • store between 20-25° C (68-77° F). Protect from light. • TAMPER EVIDENT: THIS PRODUCT PROTECTED WITH SEALED BLISTER UNITS. DO NOT USE IF ANY ARE TORN OR BROKEN. Directions drink plenty of clear fluids to help prevent dehydration caused by diarrhea find right dose on chart. adults and children 12 years and over 2 caplets after the first loose stool; 1 caplet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 4 caplets in 24 hours children 9-11 years (60-95 lbs) 1 caplet after the first loose stool; 1/2 caplet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 3 caplets in 24 hours children 6-8 years (48-59 lbs) 1 caplet after the first loose stool; 1/2 caplet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 2 caplets in 24 hours children 2-5 years (34-47 lbs) ask a doctor children under 2 years (up to 33 lbs) do not use adults and children 12 years and over 2 caplets after the first loose stool; 1 caplet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 4 caplets in 24 hours children 9-11 years (60-95 lbs) 1 caplet after the first loose stool; 1/2 caplet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 3 caplets in 24 hours children 6-8 years (48-59 lbs) 1 caplet after the first loose stool; 1/2 caplet after each subsequent loose stool; but no more than 2 caplets in 24 hours children 2-5 years (34 to 47 lbs) ask a doctor children under 2 years (up to 33 lbs) do not use
Warnings: Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you have ever had a rash or other allergic reaction to loperamide HCl Heart alert: Taking more than directed can cause serious heart problems or death Do not use if you have bloody or black stool Ask a doctor before use if you have • fever • mucus in the stool • a history of liver disease • a history of abnormal heart rhythm Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug. Loperamide may interact with certain prescription drugs. When using this product tiredness, drowsiness or dizziness may occur. Be careful when driving or operating machinery. Stop use and ask a doctor if • symptoms get worse • diarrhea lasts for more than 2 days • you get abdominal swelling or bulging. These may be signs of a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222) Warnings ​Warnings Allergy alert Allergy alert: Do not use if you have ever had a rash or other allergic reaction to Loperamide HCl. Heart alert Heart alert: Taking more than directed can cause serious heart problems or death. Do not use Do not use if you have bloody or black stool Ask a doctor before use if you have Ask a doctor before use if you have fever mucus in the stool a history of liver disease a history of abnormal heart rhythm Ask a doctor or pharmacist Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug. When using this product When using this product tiredness, drowsiness or dizziness may occur. Stop use and ask a doctor if Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms get worse diarrhea lasts for more than 2 days you get abdominal swelling or bulging. If pregnant or breast-feeding If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children. Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you have ever had a rash or other allergic reaction to Loperamide HCl Do not use if you have bloody or black stool Ask a doctor before use if you have a fever mucus in stool a history of liver disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking antibiotics When using this product tiredness, drowsiness or dizziness may occur be careful when driving or operating machinery Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms get worse diarrhea lasts more than 2 days you get abdominal swelling or bulging. If you are pregnant or breast feeding , ask a health professional before use. Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children . In case of accidental overdose, contact a physician or Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you have ever had a rash or other allergic reaction to loperamide HCl Heart Alert: Taking more than directed can cause serious heart problems or death Do not use • if you have bloody or black stool • if you have difficulty swallowing Ask a doctor before use if you have • fever • mucus in the stool • a history of liver disease • a history of abnormal heart rhythm Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug. Be careful when driving or operating machinery . • you have difficulty swallowing the caplet If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1800-222-1222). Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you have ever had a rash or other allergic reaction to loperamide HCI Heart alert: Taking more than directed can cause serious heart problems or death. Do not use if you have bloody or black stool Ask a doctor before use if you have a fever mucus present in your stool a history of liver disease a history of abnormal heart rhythm Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug. Stop use and ask a doctor if diarrhea lasts for more than 2 days symptoms get worse you get abdominal swelling or bulging. Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you have ever had a rash or other allergic reaction to loperamide HCl Heart alert: Taking more than directed can cause serious heart problems or death Do not use if you have bloody or black stool Ask a doctor before use if you have fever mucus in the stool a history of liver disease a history of abnormal heart rhythm Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug. Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms get worse diarrhea lasts for more than 2 days you get abdominal swelling or bulging. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you have ever had a rash or other allergic reaction to loperamide HCl. Heart alert: Taking more than directed can cause serious heart problems or death. Do not use if you have bloody or black stool. Ask a doctor before use if you have a fever mucus in the stool a history of liver disease a history of abnormal heart rhythm Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug. When using this product, tiredness, drowsiness, or dizziness may occur. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away.

=== MESALAMINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mesalamine delayed-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of moderately active ulcerative colitis in adults. Limitations of Use : Safety and effectiveness of mesalamine delayed-release tablets beyond 6 weeks have not been established. Mesalamine delayed-release tablets are an aminosalicylate indicated for the treatment of moderately active ulcerative colitis in adults. (1) Limitation of Use : Safety and effectiveness of mesalamine delayed-release tablets beyond 6 weeks have not been established (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mesalamine delayed-release tablets are indicated for the: · induction and maintenance of remission in adult patients with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis. · treatment of mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis in pediatric patients weighing at least 24 kg. Mesalamine delayed-release tablet is an aminosalicylate indicated for the: • induction and maintenance of remission in adult patients with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis. ( 1 ) • treatment of mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis in pediatric patients weighing at least 24 kg. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mesalamine delayed-release tablets are indicated for the: induction and maintenance of remission in adult patients with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis. treatment of mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis in pediatric patients weighing at least 24 kg. Mesalamine delayed-release tablets are an aminosalicylate indicated for the: induction and maintenance of remission in adult patients with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis. ( 1 ) treatment of mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis in pediatric patients weighing at least 24 kg. (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mesalamine suppositories are indicated in adults for the treatment of mildly to moderately active ulcerative proctitis. Mesalamine suppositories are an aminosalicylate indicated in adults for the treatment of mildly to moderately active ulcerative proctitis. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mesalamine delayed-release tablets are indicated for the: • induction and maintenance of remission in adult patients with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis. • treatment of mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis in pediatric patients weighing at least 24 kg. Mesalamine delayed-release tablets are an aminosalicylate indicated for the: • induction and maintenance of remission in adult patients with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mesalamine rectal suspension enema is indicated for the treatment of active mild to moderate distal ulcerative colitis, proctosigmoiditis or proctitis in adults. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mesalamine Extended-Release Capsules are indicated for the maintenance of remission of ulcerative colitis in adults. Mesalamine extended-release capsules are an aminosalicylate indicated for the maintenance of remission of ulcerative colitis in adults. ( 1 ) Limitation of Use : Safety and effectiveness of mesalamine delayed-release tablets beyond 6 weeks have not been established ( 1 )
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Administration Instructions : Do not substitute one mesalamine delayed-release tablets 800 mg tablet for two mesalamine delayed-release 400 mg oral products. (2.1) Evaluate renal function prior to initiation of mesalamine delayed-release tablets. (2.1, 5.1) Take on an empty stomach, at least 1 hour before and 2 hours after a meal. (2.1) Swallow whole; do not cut, break or chew the tablets. (2.1) Drink an adequate amount of fluids. (2.1, 5.7) Treatment of Moderately Active Ulcerative Colitis : Recommended dosage is 1,600 mg (two 800 mg tablets) three times daily for 6 weeks. (2.2) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Do not substitute one mesalamine delayed-release 800 mg tablet for two mesalamine delayed-release 400 mg oral products [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Evaluate renal function prior to initiation of mesalamine delayed-release tablets. Take mesalamine delayed-release tablets on an empty stomach, at least 1 hour before and 2 hours after a meal [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Swallow mesalamine delayed-release tablets whole. Do not cut, break or chew the tablets. Drink an adequate amount of fluids [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . Intact, partially intact, and/or tablet shells have been reported in the stool; Instruct patients to contact their healthcare provider if this occurs repeatedly. Protect mesalamine delayed-release tablets from moisture. 2.2 Dosage Information For the treatment of moderately active ulcerative colitis, the recommended dosage of mesalamine delayed-release tablets in adults is 1,600 mg (two 800 mg tablets) three times daily (total daily dosage of 4.8 grams) for a duration of 6 weeks. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administration Instructions • Evaluate renal function prior to initiation of mesalamine delayed-release tablets and periodically while on therapy. • Swallow mesalamine delayed-release tablets whole; do not split or crush. • Administer mesalamine delayed-release tablets with food [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . • Drink an adequate amount of fluids [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] . Adults • The recommended dosage for the induction of remission in adult patients with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis is 2.4 g to 4.8 g (two to four 1.2 g tablets) taken once daily. • The recommended dosage for the maintenance of remission is 2.4 g (two 1.2 g tablets) taken once daily. Pediatric Patients The recommended dosage for treatment of mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis in pediatric patients weighing at least 24 kg who can swallow tablets whole is shown in Table 1: Table 1: Recommended Dosage of Mesalamine Delayed-release Tablets for the Treatment of Mildly to Moderately Active Ulcerative Colitis in Pediatric Patients Weighing at least 24 kg Weight of Pediatric Patient Once Daily Mesalamine Delayed-release Tablets Dosage Week 0 to Week 8 After Week 8 24 kg to 35 kg 2.4 g (two 1.2 g tablets) 1.2 g (one 1.2 g tablet) Greater than 35 kg to 50 kg 3.6 g (three 1.2 g tablets) 2.4 g (two 1.2 g tablets) Greater than 50 kg 4.8 g (four 1.2 g tablets) 2.4 g (two 1.2 g tablets) Administration Instructions • Evaluate renal function prior to initiation of mesalamine delayed-release tablets and periodically while on therapy. ( 2 , 5.1 ) • Swallow mesalamine delayed-release tablets whole; do not split or crush. ( 2 ) • Administer mesalamine delayed-release tablets with food. ( 2 ) • Drink an adequate amount of fluids. ( 2 , 5.8 ) Recommended Dosage in Adults • For induction of remission : 2.4 g to 4.8 g (two to four 1.2 g tablets) once daily. ( 2 ) • For maintenance of remission : 2.4 g (two 1.2 g tablets) once daily. ( 2 ) Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients • The recommended dosage for treatment of mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis in pediatric patients weighing at least 24 kg who can swallow tablets whole is shown below: ( 2 ) Weight of Pediatric Patient Once Daily Mesalamine Delayed-Release Tablets Dosage Week 0 to Week 8 After Week 8 24 kg to 35 kg 2.4 g (two 1.2 g tablets) 1.2 g (one 1.2 g tablet) Greater than 35 kg to 50 kg 3.6 g (three 1.2 g tablets) 2.4 g (two 1.2 g tablets) Greater than 50 kg 4.8 g (four 1.2 g tablets) 2.4 g (two 1.2 g tablets) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administration Instructions Evaluate renal function prior to initiation of mesalamine delayed-release tablets and periodically while on therapy. ( 2 , 5.1 ) Swallow mesalamine delayed-release tablets whole; do not split or crush. ( 2 ) Administer mesalamine delayed-release tablets with food. ( 2 ) Drink an adequate amount of fluids. ( 2 , 5.8 ) Recommended Dosage in Adults For induction of remission : 2.4 g to 4.8 g (two to four 1.2-g tablets) once daily. ( 2 ) For maintenance of remission : 2.4 g (two 1.2-g tablets) once daily. ( 2 ) Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients The recommended dosage for treatment of mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis in pediatric patients weighing at least 24 kg who can swallow tablets whole is shown below: (2) Weight of Pediatric Patient Once Daily Mesalamine Delayed-Release Tablets Dosage Week 0 to Week 8 After Week 8 24 kg to 35 kg 2.4 g (two 1.2-g tablets) 1.2 g (one 1.2-g tablet) Greater than 35 kg to 50 kg 3.6 g (three 1.2-g tablets) 2.4 g (two 1.2-g tablets) Greater than 50 kg 4.8 g (four 1.2-g tablets) 2.4 g (two 1.2-g tablets) Administration Instructions Evaluate renal function prior to initiation of mesalamine delayed-release tablets and periodically while on therapy. Swallow mesalamine delayed-release tablets whole; do not split or crush. Administer mesalamine delayed-release tablets with food [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Drink an adequate amount of fluids [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . Adults The recommended dosage for the induction of remission in adult patients with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis is 2.4 g to 4.8 g (two to four 1.2-g tablets) taken once daily. The recommended dosage for the maintenance of remission is 2.4 g (two 1.2-g tablets) taken once daily. Pediatric Patients The recommended dosage for treatment of mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis in pediatric patients weighing at least 24 kg who can swallow tablets whole is shown in Table 1: Table 1: Recommended Dosage of Mesalamine Delayed-Release Tablets for the Treatment of Mildly to Moderately Active Ulcerative Colitis in Pediatric Patients Weighing at least 24 kg Weight of Pediatric Patient Once Daily Mesalamine Delayed-Release Tablets Dosage Week 0 to Week 8 After Week 8 24 kg to 35 kg 2.4 g (two 1.2-g tablets) 1.2 g (one 1.2-g tablet) Greater than 35 kg to 50 kg 3.6 g (three 1.2-g tablets) 2.4 g (two 1.2-g tablets) Greater than 50 kg 4.8 g (four 1.2-g tablets) 2.4 g (two 1.2-g tablets) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage The recommended dosage of mesalamine suppositories in adults is 1000 mg administered rectally once daily at bedtime for 3 to 6 weeks depending on symptoms and sigmoidoscopic findings. Safety and effectiveness of mesalamine suppositories beyond 6 weeks have not been established. Administration Instructions : • Evaluate renal function prior to initiation of mesalamine suppositories therapy and periodically while on therapy. • Do not cut or break the suppository. • Retain the suppository for one to three hours or longer, if possible. • If a dose of mesalamine suppositories is missed, administer as soon as possible, unless it is almost time for next dose. Do not use two mesalamine suppositories at the same time to make up for a missed dose. • Mesalamine suppositories will cause staining of direct contact surfaces, including but not limited to fabrics, flooring, painted surfaces, marble, granite, vinyl, and enamel. Keep mesalamine suppositories away from these surfaces to prevent staining. Dosage The recommended adult dosage is 1000 mg administered rectally once daily at bedtime for 3 to 6 weeks. Safety and effectiveness beyond 6 weeks have not been established.( 2 ) Administration Instructions: • Evaluate renal function prior to initiation of mesalamine suppositories and periodically while on therapy ( 2.1 , 5.1 ) • Do not cut or break the suppository. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administration Instructions • Evaluate renal function prior to initiation of mesalamine and periodically while on therapy. • Administer mesalamine delayed-release tablets with food [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. • Drink an adequate amount of fluids [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )]. Adults • The recommended dosage for the induction of remission in adult patients with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis is 2.4 g to 4.8 g (two to four 1.2-g tablets) taken once daily. • The recommended dosage for the maintenance of remission is 2.4 g (two 1.2-g tablets) taken once daily. Pediatric Patients The recommended dosage for treatment of mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis in pediatric patients weighing at least 24 kg who can swallow tablets whole is shown in Table 1: Table 1: Recommended Dosage of Mesalamine Delayed-Release Tablets for the Treatment of Mildly to Moderately Active Ulcerative Colitis in Pediatric Patients Weighing at least 24 kg Weight of Pediatric Patient Once Daily Mesalamine Delayed-Release Tablets Dosage Week 0 to Week 8 After Week 8 24 kg to 35 kg 2.4 g (two 1.2-g tablets) 1.2 g (one 1.2-g tablet) Greater than 35 kg to 50 kg 3.6 g (three 1.2-g tablets) 2.4 g (two 1.2-g tablets) Greater than 50 kg 4.8 g (four 1.2-g tablets) 2.4 g (two 1.2-g tablets) Administration Instructions • Evaluate renal function prior to initiation of mesalamine and periodically while on therapy. ( 2 , 5.8 ) Recommended Dosage in Adults • For induction of remission: 2.4 g to 4.8 g (two to four 1.2 g tablets) once daily. ( 2 ) • For maintenance of remission: 2.4 g (two 1.2 g tablets) once daily. ( 2 ) Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients • The recommended dosage for treatment of mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis in pediatric patients weighing at least 24 kg who can swallow tablets whole is shown below: ( 2 ) Weight of Pediatric Patient Once Daily Mesalamine Delayed Release Tablet Dosage Week 0 to Week 8 Week 0 to Week 8 24 kg to 35 kg 2.4 g (two 1.2- g tablets) 1.2 g (one 1.2-g tablet) Greater than 35 kg to 50 kg 3.6 g (three 1.2-g tablets) 2.4 g (two 1.2-g tablets) Greater than 50 kg 4.8 g (four 1.2- g tablets) 2.4 g (two 1.2-g tablets) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administration Instructions Evaluate renal function prior to initiation of mesalamine and periodically while on therapy. Administer mesalamine delayed-release tablets with food [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Drink an adequate amount of fluids [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )]. Pediatric Patients The recommended dosage for treatment of mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis in pediatric patients weighing at least 24 kg who can swallow tablets whole is shown in Table 1: Table 1: Recommended Dosage of Mesalamine Delayed-Release Tablets for the Treatment of Mildly to Moderately Active Ulcerative Colitis in Pediatric Patients Weighing at least 24 kg Weight of Pediatric Patient Once Daily Mesalamine Delayed-Release Tablets Dosage Week 0 to Week 8 After Week 8 24 kg to 35 kg 2.4 g (two 1.2-g tablets) 1.2 g (one 1.2-g tablet) Greater than 35 kg to 50 kg 3.6 g (three 1.2-g tablets) 2.4 g (two 1.2-g tablets) Greater than 50 kg 4.8 g (four 1.2-g tablets) 2.4 g (two 1.2-g tablets) Administration Instructions Evaluate renal function prior to initiation of mesalamine and periodically while on therapy. ( 2 , 5.8 ) Recommended Dosage in Adults For induction of remission: 2.4 g to 4.8 g (two to four 1.2 g tablets) once daily. ( 2 ) For maintenance of remission: 2.4 g (two 1.2 g tablets) once daily. ( 2 ) Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients The recommended dosage for treatment of mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis in pediatric patients weighing at least 24 kg who can swallow tablets whole is shown below: ( 2 ) Weight of Pediatric Patient Once Daily Mesalamine Delayed Release Tablet Dosage Week 0 to Week 8 Week 0 to Week 8 24 kg to 35 kg 2.4 g (two 1.2- g tablets) 1.2 g (one 1.2-g tablet) Greater than 35 kg to 50 kg 3.6 g (three 1.2-g tablets) 2.4 g (two 1.2-g tablets) Greater than 50 kg 4.8 g (four 1.2- g tablets) 2.4 g (two 1.2-g tablets) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended adult dosage of mesalamine rectal suspension enema in 60 mL units is one rectal instillation (4 grams) once a day, preferably at bedtime, and retained for approximately eight hours. While the effect of mesalamine rectal suspension enema may be seen within 3 to 21 days, the usual course of therapy would be from 3 to 6 weeks depending on symptoms and sigmoidoscopic findings. Studies available to date have not assessed if mesalamine rectal suspension enema will modify relapse rates after the 6-week short-term treatment. Mesalamine rectal suspension enema is for rectal use only. Drink an adequate amount of fluids during treatment. Patients should be instructed to shake the bottle well to make sure the suspension is homogeneous. The patient should remove the protective sheath from the applicator tip. Holding the bottle at the neck will not cause any of the medication to be discharged. The position most often used is obtained by lying on the left side (to facilitate migration into the sigmoid colon); with the lower leg extended and the upper right leg flexed forward for balance. An alternative is the knee-chest position. The applicator tip should be gently inserted in the rectum pointing toward the umbilicus. A steady squeezing of the bottle will discharge most of the preparation. The preparation should be taken at bedtime with the objective of retaining it all night. Patient instructions are included with every seven units. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage The recommended dosage is 1.5 g (four 0.375 g capsules) once daily in the morning. ( 2 ) Administration Instructions Evaluate renal function before initiating therapy with mesalamine extended-release capsules. ( 2 ) Swallow the capsules whole. Do not cut, break, crush or chew the capsules. ( 2 ) Avoid co-administration with antacids. ( 2 , 7.1 ) Drink an adequate amount of fluids. ( 2 , 5.7 ) Take mesalamine extended-release capsules without regard to meals. ( 2 ) Dosage The recommended dosage in adults is 1.5 g (four 0.375 g capsules) orally once daily in the morning. Administration Instructions Evaluate renal function before initiating therapy with mesalamine extended-release capsules [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Swallow mesalamine extended-release capsules whole. Avoid co-administration of mesalamine extended-release capsules with antacids [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Take mesalamine extended-release capsules without regard to meals [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Administration Instructions : Do not substitute one mesalamine delayed-release 800 mg tablet for two mesalamine delayed-release 400 mg oral products. ( 2.1 ) Evaluate renal function prior to initiation of mesalamine delayed-release tablets. ( 2.1 , 5.1 ) Take on an empty stomach, at least 1 hour before and 2 hours after a meal. ( 2.1 ) Swallow whole; do not cut, break or chew the tablets. ( 2.1 ) Drink an adequate amount of fluids. ( 2.1 , 5.7 ) Treatment of Moderately Active Ulcerative Colitis : Recommended dosage is 1,600 mg (two 800 mg tablets) three times daily for 6 weeks. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Do not substitute one mesalamine delayed-release 800 mg tablet for two mesalamine delayed-release 400 mg oral products [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Take mesalamine delayed-release tablets on an empty stomach, at least 1 hour before and 2 hours after a meal [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Drink an adequate amount of fluids [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] .
Warnings: WARNINGS Hypersensitivity Reactions Sulfite-Related Reactions Mesalamine rectal suspension enema contains potassium metabisulfite, a sulfite that may cause allergic-type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people. The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown but probably low. Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic or in atopic nonasthmatic persons. Epinephrine is the preferred treatment for serious allergic or emergency situations even though epinephrine injection contains sodium or potassium metabisulfite with the above-mentioned potential liabilities. The alternatives to using epinephrine in a life-threatening situation may not be satisfactory. The presence of a sulfite(s) in epinephrine injection should not deter the administration of the drug for treatment of serious allergic or other emergency situations. Sulfasalazine-Associated Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in patients taking sulfasalazine. Some patients may have a similar reaction to mesalamine rectal suspension enema or to other compounds that contain or are converted to mesalamine. As with sulfasalazine, mesalamine-induced hypersensitivity reactions may present as internal organ involvement, including myocarditis, pericarditis, nephritis, hepatitis, pneumonitis and hematologic abnormalities. Evaluate patients immediately if signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction are present. Discontinue mesalamine rectal suspension enema if an alternative etiology for the signs and symptoms cannot be established. Renal Impairment Renal impairment, including minimal change disease, acute and chronic interstitial nephritis, and renal failure have been reported in patients given products that contain mesalamine or are converted to mesalamine. In animal studies, the kidney was the principal organ of mesalamine toxicity. Evaluate the risks and benefits of using mesalamine rectal suspension enema in patients with known renal impairment or a history of renal disease or taking concomitant nephrotoxic drugs. Mesalamine is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of adverse reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function. Evaluate renal function in all patients prior to initiation and periodically while on mesalamine rectal suspension enema therapy. Mesalamine-Induced Acute Intolerance Syndrome Mesalamine has been associated with an acute intolerance syndrome that may be difficult to distinguish from a flare of inflammatory bowel disease. Although the exact frequency of occurrence cannot be ascertained, it has occurred in 3% of patients in controlled clinical trials of mesalamine or sulfasalazine. Symptoms include cramping, acute abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea, sometimes fever, headache, and rash. Monitor patients for worsening of these symptoms while on treatment. If acute intolerance syndrome is suspected, promptly discontinue treatment with mesalamine rectal suspension enema.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mesalamine delayed-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known or suspected hypersensitivity to salicylates or aminosalicylates or to any of the ingredients of mesalamine delayed-release tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Adverse Reactions (6.2) , and Description (11) ] . Known or suspected hypersensitivity to salicylates or aminosalicylates or to any of the ingredients of mesalamine delayed-release tablets (4, 5.3) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mesalamine is contraindicated in patients with known or suspected hypersensitivity to salicylates, aminosalicylates, or to any of the ingredients of mesalamine [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ), Description ( 11 )] . Known or suspected hypersensitivity to salicylates or aminosalicylates or to any of the ingredients of mesalamine. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mesalamine delayed-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known or suspected hypersensitivity to salicylates, aminosalicylates, or to any of the ingredients of mesalamine delayed-release tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Adverse Reactions (6.2) , Description (11) ] . Known or suspected hypersensitivity to salicylates or aminosalicylates or to any of the ingredients of mesalamine delayed-release tablets. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mesalamine suppositories are contraindicated in patients with known or suspected hypersensitivity to salicylates or aminosalicylates or to any ingredients in the suppository vehicle [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3), Adverse Reactions (6.2) , and Description (11 )]. Known or suspected hypersensitivity to salicylates or aminosalicylates or to any or to any ingredients in the formulation. ( 4 , 5 .3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mesalamine delayed-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known or suspected hypersensitivity to salicylates, aminosalicylates, or to any of the ingredients of mesalamine delayed-release tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ), Description ( 11 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mesalamine delayed-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known or suspected hypersensitivity to salicylates, aminosalicylates, or to any of the ingredients of mesalamine delayed-release tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ), Description ( 11 ) ]. CONTRAINDICATIONS Mesalamine rectal suspension enema is contraindicated for patients with known or suspected hypersensitivity to salicylates, aminosalicylates, sulfites or any other component of this medication. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mesalamine Extended-Release Capsules are contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to salicylates or aminosalicylates or to any of the components of Mesalamine Extended-Release Capsules [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Adverse Reactions (6.2) , Description (11) ] . Known or suspected hypersensitivity to salicylates, aminosalicylates, or any component of mesalamine extended-release capsules. ( 4 , 5.3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mesalamine delayed-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known or suspected hypersensitivity to salicylates or aminosalicylates or to any of the ingredients of mesalamine delayed-release tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ), and Description ( 11 )] .
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Nephrotoxic Agents including NSAIDs : Increased risk of nephrotoxicity; monitor for changes in renal function and mesalamine-related adverse reactions. (7.1) Azathioprine or 6-Mercaptopurine : Increased risk of blood disorders; monitor complete blood cell counts and platelet counts. (7.2) 7.1 Nephrotoxic Agents, Including Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs The concurrent use of mesalamine with known nephrotoxic agents, including nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of nephrotoxicity. Monitor patients taking nephrotoxic drugs for changes in renal function and mesalamine-related adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7.2 Azathioprine or 6-Mercaptopurine The concurrent use of mesalamine with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine and/or other drugs known to cause myelotoxicity may increase the risk for blood disorders, bone marrow failure, and associated complications. If concomitant use of mesalamine delayed-release and azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine cannot be avoided, monitor blood tests, including complete blood cell counts and platelet counts. 7.3 Interference With Urinary Normetanephrine Measurements Use of mesalamine delayed-release may lead to spuriously elevated test results when measuring urinary normetanephrine by liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . Consider an alternative, selective assay for normetanephrine. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Nephrotoxic Agents including NSAIDs : Increased risk of nephrotoxicity; monitor for changes in renal function and mesalamine-related adverse reactions. ( 7.1 ) • Azathioprine or 6-Mercaptopurine : Increased risk of blood dyscrasias; monitor complete blood cell counts and platelet counts. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Nephrotoxic Agents, Including Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs The concurrent use of mesalamine with known nephrotoxic agents, including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase the risk of nephrotoxicity. Monitor patients taking nephrotoxic drugs for changes in renal function and mesalamine-related adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. 7.2 Azathioprine and 6-Mercaptopurine The concurrent use of mesalamine with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine and/or any other drugs known to cause myelotoxicity may increase the risk for blood disorders, bone marrow failure, and associated complications. If concomitant use of mesalamine and azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine cannot be avoided, monitor blood tests, including complete blood cell counts and platelet counts. 7.3 Interference with Urinary Normetanephrine Measurements Use of mesalamine may lead to spuriously elevated test results when measuring urinary normetanephrine by liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )]. ( 7.1 ) Azathioprine or 6-Mercaptopurine : Increased risk of blood dyscrasias; monitor complete blood cell counts and platelet counts. Monitor patients taking nephrotoxic drugs for changes in renal function and mesalamine-related adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . If concomitant use of mesalamine delayed-release tablets and azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine cannot be avoided, monitor blood tests, including complete blood cell counts and platelet counts. 7.3 Interference with Urinary Normetanephrine Measurements Use of mesalamine delayed-release tablets may lead to spuriously elevated test results when measuring urinary normetanephrine by liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . ( 7.1 ) • Azathioprine or 6-Mercaptopurine : Increased risk of blood disorders; monitor complete blood cell counts and platelet counts. ( 7.2) 7.1 Nephrotoxic Agents, Including Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs The concurrent use of mesalamine with known nephrotoxic agents, including nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of nephrotoxicity. Monitor patients taking nephrotoxic drugs for changes in renal function and mesalamine-related adverse reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. 7.2 Azathioprine or 6-Mercaptopurine The concurrent use of mesalamine with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine may increase the risk for blood disorders. If concomitant use of mesalamine suppositories and azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine cannot be avoided, monitor blood tests, including complete blood cell counts and platelet counts. 7.3 Urinary Normetanephrine Measurements Use of mesalamine may lead to spuriously elevated test results when measuring urinary normetanephrine by liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection, because of the similarity in the chromatograms of normetanephrine and mesalamine's main metabolite, N-acetylaminosalicylic acid. Consider an alternative, selective assay for normetanephrine [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Nephrotoxic Agents including NSAIDs: Increased risk of nephrotoxicity; monitor for changes in renal function and mesalamine-related adverse reactions. ( 7.1 ) • Azathioprine or 6-Mercaptopurine: Increased risk of blood dyscrasias; monitor complete blood cell counts and platelet counts. Monitor patients taking nephrotoxic drugs for changes in renal function and mesalamine-related adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . 7.3 Interference with Urinary Normetanephrine Measurements Use of mesalamine may lead to spuriously elevated test results when measuring urinary normetanephrine by liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Nephrotoxic Agents including NSAIDs: Increased risk of nephrotoxicity; monitor for changes in renal function and mesalamine-related adverse reactions. ( 7.1 ) Azathioprine or 6-Mercaptopurine: Increased risk of blood dyscrasias; monitor complete blood cell counts and platelet counts. Drug Interactions Nephrotoxic Agents, Including Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs The concurrent use of mesalamine with known nephrotoxic agents, including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), may increase the risk of nephrotoxicity. Monitor patients taking nephrotoxic drugs for changes in renal function and mesalamine-related adverse reactions. Azathioprine or 6-Mercaptopurine The concurrent use of mesalamine with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine and/or any other drugs known to cause myelotoxicity may increase the risk for blood disorders, bone marrow failure, and associated complications. If concomitant use of mesalamine rectal suspension enema and azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine cannot be avoided, monitor blood tests, including complete blood cell counts and platelet counts. ( 7.2 ) Azathioprine or 6-Mercaptopurine : Increased risk of blood disorders; monitor complete blood cell counts and platelet counts. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Antacids Because the dissolution of the coating of the granules in mesalamine extended-release capsules depends on pH, avoid co-administration of mesalamine extended-release capsules with antacids [see Dosage and Administration (2) ] . 7.2 Nephrotoxic Agents, Including Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs The concurrent use of mesalamine with known nephrotoxic agents, including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of nephrotoxicity. 7.3 Azathioprine or 6-Mercaptopurine The concurrent use of mesalamine with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine and/or other drugs known to cause myelotoxicity may increase the risk for blood disorders, bone marrow failure, and associated complications. If concomitant use of mesalamine extended-release capsules and azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine cannot be avoided, monitor blood tests, including complete blood cell counts and platelet counts. 7.4 Interference with Urinary Normetanephrine Measurements Use of mesalamine extended-release capsules may lead to spuriously elevated test results when measuring urinary normetanephrine by liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Nephrotoxic Agents including NSAIDs : Increased risk of nephrotoxicity; monitor for changes in renal function and mesalamine­related adverse reactions. ( 7.1 ) Azathioprine or 6-Mercaptopurine : Increased risk of blood disorders; monitor complete blood cell counts and platelet counts. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Nephrotoxic Agents, Including Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs The concurrent use of mesalamine with known nephrotoxic agents, including nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of nephrotoxicity. 7.3 Interference with Urinary Normetanephrine Measurements Use of mesalamine delayed-release may lead to spuriously elevated test results when measuring urinary normetanephrine by liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] .

=== NICOTINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Stop smoking aid
Indications: Use reduces withdrawal symptoms, including nicotine craving, associated with quitting smoking Use • reduces withdrawal symptoms, including nicotine craving, associated with quitting smoking
Dosage: Directions 2 mg : if you are under 18 years of age, ask a doctor before use. No studies have been done to show if this product will work for you. before using this product, read the enclosed User’s Guide for complete directions and other important information begin using the lozenge on your quit day if you smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up, use 4 mg nicotine lozenge if you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up, use 2 mg nicotine lozenge according to the following 12 week schedule: Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 lozenge every 1 to 2 hours 1 lozenge every 2 to 4 hours 1 lozenge every 4 to 8 hours nicotine lozenge is a medicine and must be used a certain way to get the best results place the lozenge in your mouth and allow the lozenge to slowly dissolve (about 20-30 minutes). Minimize swallowing. Do not chew or swallow lozenge. you may feel a warm or tingling sensation occasionally move the lozenge from one side of your mouth to the other until completely dissolved (about 20-30 minutes) do not eat or drink 15 minutes before using or while the lozenge is in your mouth to improve your chances of quitting, use at least 9 lozenges per day for the first 6 weeks do not use more than one lozenge at a time or continuously use one lozenge after another since this may cause you hiccups, heartburn, nausea or other side effects do not use more than 5 lozenges in 6 hours. Do not use more than 20 lozenges per day. it is important to complete treatment. If you feel you need to use the lozenge for a longer period to keep from smoking, talk to your health care provider. 4 mg: if you are under 18 years of age, ask a doctor before use. before using this product, read the enclosed User’s Guide for complete directions and other important information begin using the lozenge on your quit day if you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up, use 2 mg nicotine lozenge if you smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up, use 4 mg nicotine lozenge according to the following 12 week schedule: Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 lozenge every 1 to 2 hours 1 lozenge every 2 to 4 hours 1 lozenge every 4 to 8 hours nicotine lozenge is a medicine and must be used a certain way to get the best results place the lozenge in your mouth and allow the lozenge to slowly dissolve (about 20-30 minutes). Do not chew or swallow lozenge . Do not use more than 20 lozenges per day . Directions • if you are under 18 years of age, ask a doctor before use. • before using this product, read the enclosed User’s Guide for complete directions and other important information • begin using the lozenge on your quit day • if you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up, use 2 mg nicotine lozenge • if you smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up, use 4 mg nicotine lozenge according to the following 12 week schedule: Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 lozenge every 1 to 2 hours 1 lozenge every 2 to 4 hours 1 lozenge every 4 to 8 hours • nicotine lozenge is a medicine and must be used a certain way to get the best results • place the lozenge in your mouth and allow the lozenge to slowly dissolve (about 20-30 minutes). • you may feel a warm or tingling sensation • occasionally move the lozenge from one side of your mouth to the other until completely dissolved (about 20-30 minutes) • do not eat or drink 15 minutes before using or while the lozenge is in your mouth • to improve your chances of quitting, use at least 9 lozenges per day for the first 6 weeks • do not use more than one lozenge at a time or continuously use one lozenge after another since this may cause you hiccups, heartburn, nausea or other side effects • do not use more than 5 lozenges in 6 hours. • it is important to complete treatment. Directions if you are under 18 years of age, ask a doctor before use. before using this product, read the enclosed User’s Guide for complete directions and other important information begin using the lozenge on your quit day if you smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up, use 4 mg nicotine lozenge if you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up, use 2 mg nicotine lozenge according to the following 12 week schedule: Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 lozenge every 1 to 2 hours 1 lozenge every 2 to 4 hours 1 lozenge every 4 to 8 hours nicotine lozenge is a medicine and must be used a certain way to get the best results place the lozenge in your mouth and allow the lozenge to slowly dissolve (about 20 to 30 minutes). you may feel a warm or tingling sensation occasionally move the lozenge from one side of your mouth to the other until completely dissolved (about 20 to 30 minutes) do not eat or drink 15 minutes before using or while the lozenge is in your mouth to improve your chances of quitting, use at least 9 lozenges per day for the first 6 weeks do not use more than one lozenge at a time or continuously use one lozenge after another since this may cause you hiccups, heartburn, nausea or other side effects do not use more than 5 lozenges in 6 hours. Directions if you are under 18 years of age, ask a doctor before use before using this product, read the enclosed User's Guide for complete directions and other important information begin using the gum on your quit day if you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up, use 2 mg nicotine gum if you smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up, use 4 mg nicotine gum according to the following 12 week schedule: Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 piece every 1 to 2 hours 1 piece every 2 to 4 hours 1 piece every 4 to 8 hours nicotine gum is a medicine and must be used a certain way to get the best results chew the gum slowly until it tingles. Then park it between your cheek and gum. When the tingle is gone, begin chewing again, until the tingle returns. repeat this process until most of the tingle is gone (about 30 minutes) do not eat or drink for 15 minutes before chewing the nicotine gum, or while chewing a piece to improve your chances of quitting, use at least 9 pieces per day for the first 6 weeks if you experience strong or frequent cravings, you may use a second piece within the hour. However, do not continuously use one piece after another since this may cause you hiccups, heartburn, nausea or other side effects. do not use more than 24 pieces a day it is important to complete treatment. If you feel you need to use the gum for a longer period to keep from smoking, talk to your health care provider. Directions • if you are under 18 years of age, ask a doctor before use • before using this product, read the enclosed User’s Guide for complete directions and other important information • begin using the gum on your quit day • if you smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up, use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum, 4 mg • if you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up, use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum, 2 mg according to the following 12 week schedule: Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 piece every 1 to 2 hours 1 piece every 2 to 4 hours 1 piece every 4 to 8 hours • nicotine gum is a medicine and must be used a certain way to get the best results • chew the gum slowly until it tingles. • repeat this process until most of the tingle is gone (about 30 minutes) • do not eat or drink for 15 minutes before chewing the nicotine gum, or while chewing a piece • to improve your chances of quitting, use at least 9 pieces per day for the first 6 weeks • if you experience strong or frequent cravings, you may use a second piece within the hour. • do not use more than 24 pieces a day • it is important to complete treatment. • before using this product, read the enclosed User’s Guide for complete directions and other important information • begin using the lozenge on your quit day • if you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up, use 2 mg nicotine lozenge • if you smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up, use 4 mg nicotine lozenge according to the following 12 week schedule: Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 lozenge every 1 to 2 hours 1 lozenge every 2 to 4 hours 1 lozenge every 4 to 8 hours • nicotine lozenge is a medicine and must be used a certain way to get the best results • place the lozenge in your mouth and allow the lozenge to slowly dissolve. • you may feel a warm or tingling sensation • occasionally move the lozenge from one side of your mouth to the other until completely dissolved • do not eat or drink 15 minutes before using or while the lozenge is in your mouth • to improve your chances of quitting, use at least 9 lozenges per day for the first 6 weeks • do not use more than one lozenge at a time or continuously use one lozenge after another since this may cause you hiccups, heartburn, nausea or other side effects • do not use more than 5 lozenges in 6 hours. Directions • if you are under 18 years of age, ask a doctor before use • before using this product, read the enclosed User’s Guide for complete directions and other important information • begin using the gum on your quit day • if you smoke your first cigarette more than 30 minutes after waking up , use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum, 2 mg • if you smoke your first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking up, use Nicotine Polacrilex Gum, 4 mg according to the following 12 week schedule: Weeks 1 to 6 Weeks 7 to 9 Weeks 10 to 12 1 piece every 1 to 2 hours 1 piece every 2 to 4 hours 1 piece every 4 to 8 hours • nicotine gum is a medicine and must be used a certain way to get the best results • chew the gum slowly until it tingles.
Warnings: Warnings If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, only use this medicine on the advice of your health care provider. Smoking can seriously harm your child. Try to stop smoking without using any nicotine replacement medicine. This medicine is believed to be safer than smoking. However, the risks to your child from this medicine are not fully known. Ask a doctor before use if you have a sodium-restricted diet heart disease, recent heart attack, or irregular heartbeat. Nicotine can increase your heart rate. high blood pressure not controlled with medication. Nicotine can increase your blood pressure. stomach ulcer or diabetes history of seizures Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are using a non-nicotine stop smoking drug taking prescription medicine for depression or asthma. Your prescription dose may need to be adjusted. Stop use and ask doctor if mouth problems occur persistent indigestion or severe sore throat occurs irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur you get symptoms of nicotine overdose such as nausea, vomiting, dizziness, diarrhea, weakness and rapid heartbeat you have symptoms of an allergic reaction (such as difficulty breathing or rash) Keep out of reach of children and pets Nicotine lozenges may have enough nicotine to make children and pets sick. If you need to remove the lozenge, wrap it in paper and throw away in the trash. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Ask a doctor before use if you have • a sodium-restricted diet • heart disease, recent heart attack, or irregular heartbeat. • high blood pressure not controlled with medication. • stomach ulcer or diabetes • history of seizures Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • using a non-nicotine stop smoking drug • taking prescription medicine for depression or asthma. Stop use and ask a doctor if • mouth problems occur • persistent indigestion or severe sore throat occurs • irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur • you get symptoms of nicotine overdose such as nausea, vomiting, dizziness, diarrhea, weakness and rapid heartbeat • you have symptoms of an allergic reaction (such as difficulty breathing or rash) Keep out of reach of children and pets. Nicotine lozenges may have enough nicotine to make children and pets sick. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222) Stop use and ask a doctor if mouth problems occur persistent indigestion or severe sore throat occurs irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur you get symptoms of nicotine overdose such as nausea, vomiting, dizziness, diarrhea, weakness and rapid heartbeat you have symptoms of an allergic reaction (such as difficulty breathing or rash) Keep out of reach of children and pets. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away Nicotine can increase blood pressure. Stop use and ask a doctor if mouth, teeth or jaw problems occur irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur you get symptoms of nicotine overdose such as nausea, vomiting, dizziness, diarrhea, weakness and rapid heartbeat you have symptoms of an allergic reaction (such as difficulty breathing or rash) Keep out of reach of children and pets. Pieces of nicotine gum may have enough nicotine to make children and pets sick. Wrap used pieces of gum in paper and throw away in the trash. Stop use and ask a doctor if • mouth, teeth or jaw problems occur • irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur • you get symptoms of nicotine overdose such as nausea, vomiting, dizziness, diarrhea, weakness and rapid heartbeat • you have symptoms of an allergic reaction (such as difficulty breathing or rash) Keep out of reach of children and pets. Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease, recent heart attack, or irregular heartbeat. Stop use and ask a doctor if • mouth problems occur • persistent indigestion or severe sore throat occurs • irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur • you get symptoms of nicotine overdose such as nausea, vomiting, dizziness, diarrhea, weakness or rapid heartbeat • you have symptoms of an allergic reaction (such as difficulty breathing or rash) Keep out of reach of children and pets. • stomach ulcer or diabetes • history of seizures Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • using a non-nicotine stop smoking drug • Taking a prescription medicine for depression or asthma.

=== OLOPATADINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antihistamine and Redness Reliever Active Ingredient Purpose Olopatadine (0.1%). (equivalent to olopatadine hydrochloride 0.111%) Antihistamine and redness reliever Purpose Antihistamine Active Ingredients Purpose Olopatadine 0.2% (equivalent to olopatadine hydrochloride 0.222%) Antihistamine
Indications: Uses temporarily relieves itchy and red eyes due to pollen, ragweed, grass, animal hair and dander Use temporarily relieves itchy eyes due to pollen, ragweed, grass, animal hair and dander USE(S) temporarily relieves itchy eyes due to pollen, ragweed, grass, animal hair and dander
Dosage: Directions adults and children 2 years of age and older: put 1 drop in the affected eye(s) twice daily, every 6 to 8 hours, no more than twice per day if using other ophthalmic products while using this product, wait at least 5 minutes between each product replace cap after each use children under 2 years of age: consult a doctor DIRECTIONS • adults and children 2 years of age and older: • put 1 drop in the affected eye(s) twice daily, every 6 to 8 hours, no more than twice per day • if using other ophthalmic products while using this product, wait at least 5 minutes between each product • replace cap after each use • children under 2 years of age: consult a doctor Directions adults and children 2 years of age and older: put 1 drop in the affected eye(s) once daily, no more than once per day if using other ophthalmic products while using this product, wait at least 5 minutes between each product replace cap after each use children under 2 years of age: consult a doctor Directions • adults and children 2 years of age and older: o put 1 drop in the affected eye(s) once daily, no more than once per day o if using other ophthalmic products while using this product, wait at least 5 minutes between each product o replace cap after each use • children under 2 years of age: consult a doctor DIRECTIONS ▪ adults and children 2 years of age and older: ▪ put 1 drop in the affected eyes(s) once daily, no more than once per day ▪ if using other ophthalmic products while using this product, wait at least 5 minutes between each product ▪ replace cap after each use ▪ children under 2 years of age: consult a doctor
Warnings: Warnings For external use only

=== PRAZOSIN HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Prazosin hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes, including this drug. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. Prazosin hydrochloride capsules can be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive drugs such as diuretics or beta-adrenergic blocking agents. INDICATIONS & USAGE Prazosin Hydrochloride Capsules, USP is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program's Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Prazosin Hydrochloride Capsules, USP can be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive drugs such as diuretics or beta-adrenergic blocking agents. Prazosin hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Prazosin hydrochloride capsules, USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Prazosin hydrochloride capsules USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Prazosin hydrochloride capsules USP can be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive drugs such as diuretics or beta-adrenergic blocking agents.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of prazosin hydrochloride capsules should be adjusted according to the patient’s individual blood pressure response. The following is a guide to its administration: Initial Dose 1 mg two or three times a day (see WARNINGS. ) Maintenance Dose Dosage may be slowly increased to a total daily dose of 20 mg given in divided doses. The therapeutic dosages most commonly employed have ranged from 6 mg to 15 mg daily given in divided doses. Doses higher than 20 mg usually do not increase efficacy, however a few patients may benefit from further increases up to a daily dose of 40 mg given in divided doses. After initial titration some patients can be maintained adequately on a twice daily dosage regimen. Use With Other Drugs When adding a diuretic or other antihypertensive agent, the dose of prazosin hydrochloride capsules should be reduced to 1 mg or 2 mg three times a day and retitration then carried out. Concomitant administration of prazosin hydrochloride capsules with a PDE-5 inhibitor can result in additive blood pressure lowering effects and symptomatic hypotension; therefore, PDE-5 inhibitor therapy should be initiated at the lowest dose in patients taking prazosin hydrochloride capsules. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION The dose of prazosin hydrochloride capsules should be adjusted according to the patient’s individual blood pressure response. The following is a guide to its administration: Initial Dose 1 mg two or three times a day (see WARNINGS). Maintenance Dose Dosage may be slowly increased to a total daily dose of 20 mg given in divided doses. The dose of prazosin hydrochloride capsules should be adjusted according to the patient's individual blood pressure response. The following is a guide to its administration: Initial Dose 1 mg two or three times a day (see WARNINGS.) Maintenance Dose Dosage may be slowly increased to a total daily dose of 20 mg given in divided doses. The following is a guide to its administration: Initial Dose: 1 mg two or three times a day (see WARNINGS ). Maintenance Dose: Dosage may be slowly increased to a total daily dose of 20 mg given in divided doses. Use With Other Drugs: When adding a diuretic or other antihypertensive agent, the dose of prazosin hydrochloride capsules should be reduced to 1 mg or 2 mg three times a day and retitration then carried out. The following is a guide to its administration: Initial Dose 1 mg two or three times a day (see WARNINGS ). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of prazosin hydrochloride capsules should be adjusted according to the patient's individual blood pressure response. The following is a guide to its administration: Initial Dose 1 mg two or three times a day (see WARNINGS .) Maintenance Dose Dosage may be slowly increased to a total daily dose of 20 mg given in divided doses. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of prazosin hydrochloride capsules USP should be adjusted according to the patient’s individual blood pressure response. Use With Other Drugs When adding a diuretic or other antihypertensive agent, the dose of prazosin hydrochloride capsules USP should be reduced to 1 mg or 2 mg three times a day and retitration then carried out. Concomitant administration of prazosin hydrochloride capsules USP with a PDE-5 inhibitor can result in additive blood pressure lowering effects and symptomatic hypotension; therefore, PDE-5 inhibitor therapy should be initiated at the lowest dose in patients taking prazosin hydrochloride capsules USP.
Warnings: WARNINGS As with all alpha-blockers, prazosin hydrochloride may cause syncope with sudden loss of consciousness. In most cases, this is believed to be due to an excessive postural hypotensive effect, although occasionally the syncopal episode has been preceded by a bout of severe tachycardia with heart rates of 120 to 160 beats per minute. Syncopal episodes have usually occurred within 30 to 90 minutes of the initial dose of the drug; occasionally, they have been reported in association with rapid dosage increases or the introduction of another antihypertensive drug into the regimen of a patient taking high doses of prazosin hydrochloride. The incidence of syncopal episodes is approximately 1% in patients given an initial dose of 2 mg or greater. Clinical trials conducted during the investigational phase of this drug suggest that syncopal episodes can be minimized by limiting the initial dose of the drug to 1 mg, by subsequently increasing the dosage slowly, and by introducing any additional antihypertensive drugs into the patient’s regimen with caution (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) . Hypotension may develop in patients given prazosin hydrochloride who are also receiving a beta-blocker such as propranolol. If syncope occurs, the patient should be placed in the recumbent position and treated supportively as necessary. This adverse effect is self-limiting and in most cases does not recur after the initial period of therapy or during subsequent dose titration. Patients should always be started on the 1 mg capsules of prazosin hydrochloride. The 2 mg and 5 mg capsules are not indicated for initial therapy. More common than loss of consciousness are the symptoms often associated with lowering of the blood pressure, namely, dizziness and lightheadedness. The patient should be cautioned about these possible adverse effects and advised what measures to take should they develop. The patient should also be cautioned to avoid situations where injury could result should syncope occur during the initiation of prazosin hydrochloride therapy. Priapism Prolonged erections and priapism have been reported with alpha-1 blockers including prazosin in post marketing experience. In the event of an erection that persists longer than 4 hours, seek immediate medical assistance. If priapism is not treated immediately, penile tissue damage and permanent loss of potency could result. In most cases, this is believed to be due to an excessive postural hypotensive effect, although occasionally the syncopal episode has been preceded by a bout of severe tachycardia with heart rates of 120–160 beats per minute. Clinical trials conducted during the investigational phase of this drug suggest that syncopal episodes can be minimized by limiting the initial dose of the drug to 1 mg, by subsequently increasing the dosage slowly, and by introducing any additional antihypertensive drugs into the patient's regimen with caution (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). As with all alpha-blockers, prazosin hydrochloride capsules may cause syncope with sudden loss of consciousness. Syncopal episodes have usually occurred within 30 to 90 minutes of the initial dose of the drug; occasionally, they have been reported in association with rapid dosage increases or the introduction of another antihypertensive drug into the regimen of a patient taking high doses of prazosin hydrochloride capsules. Hypotension may develop in patients given prazosin hydrochloride capsules who are also receiving a beta-blocker such as propranolol. Patients should always be started on the 1 mg capsules of prazosin hydrochloride capsules. The 2 and 5 mg capsules are not indicated for initial therapy. The patient should also be cautioned to avoid situations where injury could result should syncope occur during the initiation of prazosin hydrochloride capsules therapy. WARNINGS As with all alpha-blockers, prazosin hydrochloride capsules may cause syncope with sudden loss of consciousness. In most cases, this is believed to be due to an excessive postural hypotensive effect, although occasionally the syncopal episode has been preceded by a bout of severe tachycardia with heart rates of 120‒160 beats per minute. Clinical trials conducted during the investigational phase of this drug suggest that syncopal episodes can be minimized by limiting the initial dose of the drug to 1 mg, by subsequently increasing the dosage slowly, and by introducing any additional antihypertensive drugs into the patient’s regimen with caution (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Priapism: Prolonged erections and priapism have been reported with alpha-1 blockers including prazosin in post marketing experience. Clinical trials conducted during the investigational phase of this drug suggest that syncopal episodes can be minimized by limiting the initial dose of the drug to 1 mg, by subsequently increasing the dosage slowly, and by introducing any additional antihypertensive drugs into the patient’s regimen with caution (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). More common than loss of consciousness are the symptoms often associated with lowering of the blood pressure, namely, dizziness and light headedness. Priapism Prolonged erections and priapism have been reported with alpha-1 blockers including prazosin in post-marketing experience. Clinical trials conducted during the investigational phase of this drug suggest that syncopal episodes can be minimized by limiting the initial dose of the drug to 1 mg, by subsequently increasing the dosage slowly, and by introducing any additional antihypertensive drugs into the patient's regimen with caution (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Patients should always be started on the prazosin hydrochloride capsules, 1 mg. Priapism Prolonged erections and priapism have been reported with alpha-1 blockers including prazosin in postmarketing experience.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Prazosin hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in patients with known sensitivity to quinazolines, prazosin, or any of the inert ingredients. Prazosin hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in patients with known sensitivity to quinazolines, prazosin, or any of the inert ingredients.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Prazosin hydrochloride has been administered without any adverse drug interaction in limited clinical experience to date with the following: (1) cardiac glycosides– digitalis and digoxin; (2) hypoglycemics–insulin, chlorpropamide, phenformin, tolazamide, and tolbutamide; (3) tranquilizers and sedatives–chlordiazepoxide, diazepam, and phenobarbital; (4) antigout– allopurinol, colchicine, and probenecid; (5) antiarrhythmics–procainamide, propranolol ( see WARNINGS however), and quinidine; and (6) analgesics, antipyretics and anti-inflammatories– propoxyphene, aspirin, indomethacin, and phenylbutazone. Addition of a diuretic or other antihypertensive agent to prazosin hydrochloride has been shown to cause an additive hypotensive effect. This effect can be minimized by reducing the prazosin hydrochloride dose to 1 mg to 2 mg three times a day, by introducing additional antihypertensive drugs cautiously, and then by retitrating prazosin hydrochloride based on clinical response. Concomitant administration of prazosin hydrochloride with a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor can result in additive blood pressure lowering effects and symptomatic hypotension (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) . DRUG INTERACTIONS Prazosin hydrochloride has been administered without any adverse drug interaction in limited clinical experience to date with the following: (1) cardiac glycosides-digitalis and digoxin; (2) hypoglycemics-insulin, chlorpropamide, phenformin, tolazamide, and tolbutamide; (3) tranquilizers and sedatives-chlordiazepoxide, diazepam, and phenobarbital; (4) antigout-allopurinol, colchicine, and probenecid; (5) antiarrhythmics-procainamide, propranolol (see WARNINGS however), and quinidine; and (6) analgesics, antipyretics and anti-inflammatories-propoxyphene, aspirin, indomethacin, and phenylbutazone. Concomitant administration of prazosin hydrochloride with a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor can result in additive blood pressure lowering effects and symptomatic hypotension (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). Interactions Drug Interactions Prazosin hydrochloride capsules have been administered without any adverse drug interaction in limited clinical experience to date with the following: (1) cardiac glycosides‒digitalis and digoxin; (2) hypoglycemics‒insulin, chlorpropamide, phenformin, tolazamide, and tolbutamide; (3) tranquilizers and sedatives‒chlordiazepoxide, diazepam, and phenobarbital; (4) antigout‒allopurinol, colchicine, and probenecid; (5) antiarrhythmics‒procainamide, propranolol (see WARNINGS however), and quinidine; and (6) analgesics, antipyretics and anti-inflammatories-propoxyphene, aspirin, indomethacin, and phenylbutazone. Addition of a diuretic or other antihypertensive agent to prazosin hydrochloride capsules have been shown to cause an additive hypotensive effect. This effect can be minimized by reducing the prazosin hydrochloride capsules dose to 1 to 2 mg three times a day, by introducing additional antihypertensive drugs cautiously, and then by retitrating prazosin hydrochloride capsules based on clinical response. Concomitant administration of prazosin hydrochloride capsules with a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor can result in additive blood pressure lowering effects and symptomatic hypotension (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions In a study on five patients given from 12 to 24 mg of prazosin per day for 10 to 14 days, there was an average increase of 42% in the urinary metabolite of norepinephrine and an average increase in urinary VMA of 17%. Therefore, false positive results may occur in screening tests for pheochromocytoma in patients who are being treated with prazosin. If an elevated VMA is found, prazosin should be discontinued and the patient retested after a month. Drug Interactions Prazosin hydrochloride capsules have been administered without any adverse drug interaction in limited clinical experience to date with the following: (1) cardiac glycosides‒digitalis and digoxin; (2) hypoglycemics‒insulin, chlorpropamide, phenformin, tolazamide, and tolbutamide; (3) tranquilizers and sedatives‒chlordiazepoxide, diazepam, and phenobarbital; (4) antigout‒allopurinol, colchicine, and probenecid; (5) antiarrhythmics‒procainamide, propranolol (see WARNINGS however), and quinidine; and (6) analgesics, antipyretics and anti-inflammatories-propoxyphene, aspirin, indomethacin, and phenylbutazone. Drug Interactions Prazosin hydrochloride has been administered without any adverse drug interaction in limited clinical experience to date with the following: (1) cardiac glycosides–digitalis and digoxin; (2) hypoglycemics–insulin, chlorpropamide, phenformin, tolazamide, and tolbutamide; (3) tranquilizers and sedatives–chlordiazepoxide, diazepam, and phenobarbital; (4) antigout–allopurinol, colchicine, and probenecid; (5) antiarrhythmics–procainamide, propranolol (see WARNINGS however), and quinidine; and (6) analgesics, antipyretics and anti-inflammatories–propoxyphene, aspirin, indomethacin, and phenylbutazone. This effect can be minimized by reducing the prazosin hydrochloride dose to 1 to 2 mg three times a day, by introducing additional antihypertensive drugs cautiously, and then by retitrating prazosin hydrochloride based on clinical response. Drug Interactions Prazosin hydrochloride capsules has been administered without any adverse drug interaction in limited clinical experience to date with the following: (1) cardiac glycosides– digitalis and digoxin; (2) hypoglycemics–insulin, chlorpropamide, phenformin, tolazamide, and tolbutamide; (3) tranquilizers and sedatives–chlordiazepoxide, diazepam, and phenobarbital; (4) antigout– allopurinol, colchicine, and probenecid; (5) antiarrhythmics–procainamide, propranolol (see WARNINGS however), and quinidine; and (6) analgesics, antipyretics and anti-inflammatories– propoxyphene, aspirin, indomethacin, and phenylbutazone. Addition of a diuretic or other antihypertensive agent to prazosin hydrochloride capsules has been shown to cause an additive hypotensive effect. Drug Interactions Prazosin hydrochloride has been administered without any adverse drug interaction in limited clinical experience to date with the following: (1) cardiac glycosides – digitalis and digoxin; (2) hypoglycemics – insulin, chlorpropamide, phenformin, tolazamide, and tolbutamide; (3) tranquilizers and sedatives – chlordiazepoxide, diazepam, and phenobarbital; (4) antigout – allopurinol, colchicine, and probenecid; (5) antiarrhythmics – procainamide, propranolol (see WARNINGS however), and quinidine; and (6) analgesics, antipyretics and anti-inflammatories – propoxyphene, aspirin, indomethacin, and phenylbutazone. Concomitant administration of prazosin hydrochloride with a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor can result in additive blood pressure lowering effects and symptomatic hypotension (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ).

=== TAMSULOSIN HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) [see Clinical Studies (14)]. Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules are not indicated for the treatment of hypertension. Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules are an alpha 1 adrenoceptor antagonist indicated for treatment of the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (1) Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules are not indicated for the treatment of hypertension (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Tamsulosin Hydrochloride Capsules are indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. • Tamsulosin Hydrochloride Capsules is an alpha 1 adrenoceptor antagonist indicated for treatment of the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (1) • Tamsulosin Hydrochloride Capsules are not indicated for the treatment of hypertension (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dutasteride and tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules are a combination of dutasteride, a 5-alpha-reductase inhibitor, and tamsulosin, an alpha-adrenergic antagonist, indicated for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) in men with an enlarged prostate. ( 1.1 ) Limitations of Use: Dutasteride-containing products, including dutasteride and tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules, are not approved for the prevention of prostate cancer. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) Treatment Dutasteride and tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the treatment of symptomatic BPH in men with an enlarged prostate. 1.2 Limitations of Use Dutasteride-containing products, including dutasteride and tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules, are not approved for the prevention of prostate cancer. • Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules are an alpha 1 adrenoceptor antagonist indicated for treatment of the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (1) • Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules are not indicated for the treatment of hypertension (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules are an alpha 1 adrenoceptor antagonist indicated for treatment of the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia ( 1 ) Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules are not indicated for the treatment of hypertension ( 1 ) Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules, USP are indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules are an alpha 1 adrenoceptor antagonist indicated for treatment of the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia ( 1 ) Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules are not indicated for the treatment of hypertension ( 1 ) Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules is an alpha 1 adrenoceptor antagonist indicated for treatment of the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia ( 1 ) Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules are not indicated for the treatment of hypertension ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules, USP are indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules is an alpha 1 adrenoceptor antagonist indicated for treatment of the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (1) Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules are not indicated for the treatment of hypertension (1)
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules 0.4 mg once daily is recommended as the dose for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of BPH. It should be administered approximately one-half hour following the same meal each day. Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules should not be crushed, chewed or opened. For those patients who fail to respond to the 0.4 mg dose after 2 to 4 weeks of dosing, the dose of tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules can be increased to 0.8 mg once daily. Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules 0.4 mg should not be used in combination with strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. If tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules administration is discontinued or interrupted for several days at either the 0.4 mg or 0.8 mg dose, therapy should be started again with the 0.4 mg once-daily dose. 0.4 mg once daily taken approximately one-half hour following the same meal each day. (2) Can be increased to 0.8 mg once daily for patients who fail to respond to the 0.4 mg dose after 2 to 4 weeks of dosing (2) If discontinued or interrupted for several days, therapy should start again with the 0.4 mg once-daily dose (2) Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules 0.4 mg should not be used in combination with strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . ( 2 ) Can be increased to 0.8 mg once daily for patients who fail to respond to the 0.4 mg dose after 2 to 4 weeks of dosing (2) If discontinued or interrupted for several days, therapy should start again with the 0.4 mg once-daily dose (2) 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Tamsulosin Hydrochloride Capsules 0.4 mg once daily is recommended as the dose for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of BPH. Tamsulosin Hydrochloride Capsule 0.4 mg should not be used in combination with strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g.,ketoconazole) [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. • 0.4 mg once daily taken approximately one-half hour following the same meal each day. (2) • Can be increased to 0.8 mg once daily for patients who fail to respond to the 0.4 mg dose after 2 to 4 weeks of dosing (2) • If discontinued or interrupted for several days, therapy should start again with the 0.4 mg once-daily dose (2) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of dutasteride and tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules is 1 capsule (0.5 mg dutasteride and 0.4 mg tamsulosin hydrochloride) taken once daily approximately 30 minutes after the same meal each day. The capsules should be swallowed whole and not chewed or opened. Contact with the contents of the dutasteride and tamsulosin hydrochloride capsule may result in irritation of the oropharyngeal mucosa. Take one capsule daily approximately 30 minutes after the same meal each day. ( 2 ) Swallow capsule whole. ( 2 ) ( 2 ) • Can be increased to 0.8 mg once daily for patients who fail to respond to the 0.4 mg dose after 2 to 4 weeks of dosing (2) • If discontinued or interrupted for several days, therapy should start again with the 0.4 mg once-daily dose (2) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 0.4 mg once daily taken approximately one-half hour following the same meal each day. Tamsulosin capsules should not be crushed, chewed or opened. ( 2 ) Can be increased to 0.8 mg once daily for patients who fail to respond to the 0.4 mg dose after 2 to 4 weeks of dosing ( 2 ) If discontinued or interrupted for several days, therapy should start again with the 0.4 mg once-daily dose ( 2 ) Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules, 0.4 mg once daily is recommended as the dose for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of BPH. Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules, 0.4 mg should not be used in combination with strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . ( 2 ) Can be increased to 0.8 mg once daily for patients who fail to respond to the 0.4 mg dose after 2 to 4 weeks of dosing ( 2 ) If discontinued or interrupted for several days, therapy should start again with the 0.4 mg once-daily dose ( 2 ) Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules 0.4 mg should not be used in combination with strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g.,ketoconazole) [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ].
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to tamsulosin hydrochloride or any component of tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules. Reactions have included skin rash, urticaria, pruritus, angioedema, and respiratory symptoms [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)] . Contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to tamsulosin hydrochloride or any component of tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules (4, 6.2) Reactions have included skin rash, urticaria, pruritus, angioedema, and respiratory symptoms [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. Contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to tamsulosin hydrochloride or any component of tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules (4 , 6.2) Reactions have included skin rash, urticaria, pruritus,angioedema, and respiratory symptoms [ see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. • Contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to tamsulosin hydrochloride or any component of Tamsulosin Hydrochloride Capsules ( 4 , 6.2) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Dutasteride and tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated for use in: Pregnancy. Dutasteride use is contraindicated in females who are pregnant. In animal reproduction and developmental toxicity studies, dutasteride inhibited development of male fetus external genitalia. Therefore, dutasteride and tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant female. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 ) ] . Patients with previously demonstrated, clinically significant hypersensitivity (e.g., serious skin reactions, angioedema, urticaria, pruritus, respiratory symptoms) to dutasteride, other 5-alpha-reductase inhibitors, tamsulosin, or any other component of dutasteride and tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ) ] . Pregnancy. ( 4 , 5.6 , 8.1 ) Patients with previously demonstrated, clinically significant hypersensitivity (e.g., serious skin reactions, angioedema, urticaria, pruritus, respiratory symptoms) to dutasteride, other 5-alpha-reductase inhibitors, tamsulosin, or any component of dutasteride and tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules. ( 4 ) • Contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to tamsulosin hydrochloride or any component of tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules (4 , 6.2) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to tamsulosin hydrochloride or any component of tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules ( 4 , 6.2 ) Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to tamsulosin hydrochloride or any component of tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules. Reactions have included skin rash, urticaria, pruritus, angioedema, and respiratory symptoms [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )]. Contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to tamsulosin hydrochloride or any component of tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules ( 4 , 6.2 ) Reactions have included skin rash, urticaria, pruritus, angioedema, and respiratory symptoms [ see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. Contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to tamsulosin hydrochloride or any component of tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules ( 4 , 6.2)
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules 0.4 mg should not be used with strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole). Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules should be used with caution in combination with moderate inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., erythromycin), in combination with strong (e.g., paroxetine) or moderate (e.g., terbinafine) inhibitors of CYP2D6, or in patients known to be CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, particularly at a dose higher than 0.4 mg (e.g., 0.8 mg). ( 5.2 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) • Concomitant use of PDE5 inhibitors with tamsulosin can potentially cause symptomatic hypotension ( 5.2 , 7.3 , 12.3 ). 7.1 Cytochrome P450 Inhibition Strong and Moderate Inhibitors of CYP3A4 or CYP2D6 Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized, mainly by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. Concomitant treatment with ketoconazole (a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4) resulted in an increase in the C max and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., erythromycin) on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin hydrochloride have not been evaluated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Concomitant treatment with paroxetine (a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6) resulted in an increase in the C max and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. A similar increase in exposure is expected in CYP2D6 poor metabolizers (PM) as compared to extensive metabolizers (EM). Since CYP2D6 PMs cannot be readily identified and the potential for significant increase in tamsulosin exposure exists when tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules 0.4 mg is coadministered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors in CYP2D6 PMs, tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules 0.4 mg should not be used in combination with strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor (e.g., terbinafine) on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin hydrochloride have not been evaluated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. The effects of coadministration of both a CYP3A4 and a CYP2D6 inhibitor with tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules have not been evaluated. However, there is a potential for significant increase in tamsulosin exposure when tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules 0.4 mg is coadministered with a combination of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Cimetidine Treatment with cimetidine resulted in a significant decrease (26%) in the clearance of tamsulosin hydrochloride, which resulted in a moderate increase in tamsulosin hydrochloride AUC (44%) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.2 Other Alpha Adrenergic Blocking Agents The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules and other alpha adrenergic blocking agents have not been determined; however, interactions between tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules and other alpha adrenergic blocking agents may be expected [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.3 PDE5 Inhibitors Caution is advised when alpha adrenergic blocking agents including tamsulosin hydrochloride are coadministered with PDE5 inhibitors. Alpha-adrenergic blockers and PDE5 inhibitors are both vasodilators that can lower blood pressure. Concomitant use of these two drug classes can potentially cause symptomatic hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.4 Warfarin A definitive drug-drug interaction study between tamsulosin hydrochloride and warfarin was not conducted. Results from limited in vitro and in vivo studies are inconclusive. Caution should be exercised with concomitant administration of warfarin and tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.5 Nifedipine, Atenolol, Enalapril Dosage adjustments are not necessary when tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules are administered concomitantly with nifedipine, atenolol, or enalapril [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.6 Digoxin and Theophylline Dosage adjustments are not necessary when a tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules are administered concomitantly with digoxin or theophylline [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.7 Furosemide Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules had no effect on the pharmacodynamics (excretion of electrolytes) of furosemide. While furosemide produced an 11% to 12% reduction in tamsulosin hydrochloride C max and AUC, these changes are expected to be clinically insignificant and do not require adjustment of the tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules dosage [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules 0.4 mg should not be used with strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole). (5.2 , 7.1 , 12.3) Concomitant use of PDE5 inhibitors with tamsulosin can potentially cause symptomatic hypotension. (5.2 , 7.3 , 12.3) 7.1 Cytochrome P450 Inhibition Strong and Moderate Inhibitors of CYP3A4 or CYP2D6 Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized, mainly by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. Concomitant treatment with ketoconazole (a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4) resulted in an increase in the C max and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., erythromycin) on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin hydrochloride have not been evaluated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Concomitant treatment with paroxetine (a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6) resulted in an increase in the C max and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Since CYP2D6 PMs cannot be readily identified and the potential for significant increase in tamsulosin exposure exists when tamsulosin hydrochloride 0.4 mg is co-administered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors in CYP2D6 PMs, tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules 0.4 mg should not be used in combination with strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor (e.g., terbinafine) on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin hydrochloride have not been evaluated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The effects of co-administration of both a CYP3A4 and a CYP2D6 inhibitor with tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules have not been evaluated. However, there is a potential for significant increase in tamsulosin exposure when tamsulosin hydrochloride 0.4 mg is co-administered with a combination of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Cimetidine Treatment with cimetidine resulted in a significant decrease (26%) in the clearance of tamsulosin hydrochloride, which resulted in a moderate increase in tamsulosin hydrochloride AUC (44%) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.2 Other Alpha Adrenergic Blocking Agents The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules and other alpha adrenergic blocking agents have not been determined; however, interactions between tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules and other alpha adrenergic blocking agents may be expected [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.3 PDE5 Inhibitors Caution is advised when alpha adrenergic blocking agents including tamsulosin hydrochloride are co-administered with PDE5 inhibitors. Concomitant use of these two drug classes can potentially cause symptomatic hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Caution should be exercised with concomitant administration of warfarin and tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.5 Nifedipine, Atenolol, Enalapril Dosage adjustments are not necessary when tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules are administered concomitantly with nifedipine, atenolol, or enalapril [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.6 Digoxin and Theophylline Dosage adjustments are not necessary when a tamsulosin hydrochloride capsule is administered concomitantly with digoxin or theophylline [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . While furosemide produced an 11% to 12% reduction in tamsulosin hydrochloride C max and AUC, these changes are expected to be clinically insignificant and do not require adjustment of the tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules dosage [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Tamsulosin Hydrochloride Capsules should be used with caution in combination with moderate inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g.,erythromycin), in combination with strong (e.g., paroxetine) or moderate (e.g., terbinafine) inhibitors of CYP2D6, or in patients known to be CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, particularly at a dose higher than 0.4 mg (e.g., 0.8 mg). ( 5.2 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) • Concomitant use of PDE5 inhibitors with tamsulosin can potentially cause symptomatic hypotension ( 5.2, 7.3 , 12.3) 7.1 Cytochrome P450 Inhibition Strong and Moderate Inhibitors of CYP3A4 or CYP2D6 Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized, mainly by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. Concomitant treatment with ketoconazole (a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4) resulted in an increase in the Cmax and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., erythromycin) on the pharmacokinetics of Tamsulosin Hydrochloride Capsules have not been evaluated [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Concomitant treatment with paroxetine (a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6) resulted in an increase in the C max and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Since CYP2D6 PMs cannot be readily identified and the potential for significant increase in tamsulosin exposure exists when Tamsulosin Hydrochloride Capsules 0.4 mg is co-administered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors in CYP2D6 PMs, Tamsulosin Hydrochloride Capsules 0.4 mg should not be used in combination with strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole) [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor (e.g., terbinafine) on the pharmacokinetics of Tamsulosin Hydrochloride Capsules have not been evaluated [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3) ]. However, there is a potential for significant increase in tamsulosin exposure when Tamsulosin Hydrochloride Capsules 0.4 mg is co-administered with a combination of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitors [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3) ]. Cimetidine Treatment with cimetidine resulted in a significant decrease (26%) in the clearance of tamsulosin hydrochloride, which resulted in a moderate increase in tamsulosin hydrochloride AUC (44%) [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.2 Other Alpha Adrenergic Blocking Agents The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between Tamsulosin Hydrochloride Capsules and other alpha adrenergic blocking agents have not been determined; however, interactions between Tamsulosin Hydrochloride Capsules and other alpha adrenergic blocking agents may be expected [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.3 PDE5 Inhibitors Caution is advised when alpha adrenergic blocking agents including Tamsulosin Hydrochloride Capsules are co-administered with PDE5 inhibitors. Alphaadrenergic blockers and PDE5 inhibitors are both vasodilators that can lower blood pressure. Concomitant use of these two drug classes can potentially cause symptomatic hypotension [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Caution should be exercised with concomitant administration of warfarin and Tamsulosin Hydrochloride Capsules [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.5 Nifedipine, Atenolol, Enalapril Dosage adjustments are not necessary when Tamsulosin Hydrochloride Capsules are administered concomitantly with nifedipine,atenolol, or enalapril [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.6 Digoxin and Theophylline Dosage adjustments are not necessary when a Tamsulosin Hydrochloride Capsules is administered concomitantly with digoxin or theophylline [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. While furosemide produced an 11% to 12% reduction in tamsulosin hydrochloride C max and AUC, these changes are expected to be clinically insignificant and do not require adjustment of the Tamsulosin Hydrochloride Capsules dosage [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS There have been no drug interaction trials using dutasteride and tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules. The following sections reflect information available for the individual components. 7.1 Cytochrome P450 Inhibition Dutasteride Dutasteride is extensively metabolized in humans by the CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 isoenzymes. The effect of potent CYP3A4 inhibitors on dutasteride has not been studied. Because of the potential for drug-drug interactions, use caution when prescribing a dutasteride-containing product, including dutasteride and tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules, to patients taking potent, chronic CYP3A4 enzyme inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . Tamsulosin Strong and Moderate Inhibitors of CYP3A4 or CYP2D6: Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized, mainly by CYP3A4 or CYP2D6. Concomitant treatment with ketoconazole (a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4) resulted in increases in the C max and AUC of tamsulosin by factors of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively. Concomitant treatment with paroxetine (a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6) resulted in increases in the C max and area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) of tamsulosin by factors of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively. A similar increase in exposure is expected in poor metabolizers (PM) of CYP2D6 as compared to extensive metabolizers (EM). Since CYP2D6 PMs cannot be readily identified and the potential for significant increase in tamsulosin exposure exists when tamsulosin 0.4 mg is coadministered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors in CYP2D6 PMs, tamsulosin 0.4 mg capsules should not be used in combination with strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole). The effects of coadministration of both a CYP3A4 and a CYP2D6 inhibitor with tamsulosin have not been evaluated. However, there is a potential for significant increase in tamsulosin exposure when tamsulosin 0.4 mg is coadministered with a combination of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . Cimetidine : Treatment with cimetidine resulted in a moderate increase in tamsulosin hydrochloride AUC (44%) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . 7.2 Warfarin Dutasteride Concomitant administration of dutasteride 0.5 mg/day for 3 weeks with warfarin does not alter the steady-state pharmacokinetics of the S- or R-warfarin isomers or alter the effect of warfarin on prothrombin time [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . Tamsulosin A definitive drug-drug interaction trial between tamsulosin hydrochloride and warfarin was not conducted. Caution should be exercised with concomitant administration of warfarin and tamsulosin-containing products, including dutasteride and tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . 7.3 Nifedipine, Atenolol, Enalapril Tamsulosin Dosage adjustments are not necessary when tamsulosin is administered concomitantly with nifedipine, atenolol, or enalapril [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . 7.4 Digoxin and Theophylline Dutasteride Dutasteride does not alter the steady-state pharmacokinetics of digoxin when administered concomitantly at a dose of 0.5 mg/day for 3 weeks [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Tamsulosin Dosage adjustments are not necessary when tamsulosin is administered concomitantly with digoxin or theophylline [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . 7.5 Furosemide Tamsulosin Tamsulosin had no effect on the pharmacodynamics (excretion of electrolytes) of furosemide. While furosemide produced an 11% to 12% reduction in tamsulosin hydrochloride C max and AUC, these changes are expected to be clinically insignificant and do not require adjustment of the dose of tamsulosin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . 7.6 Calcium Channel Antagonists Dutasteride Coadministration of verapamil or diltiazem decreases dutasteride clearance and leads to increased exposure to dutasteride. The change in dutasteride exposure is not considered to be clinically significant. No dosage adjustment of dutasteride is recommended [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . 7.7 Cholestyramine Dutasteride Administration of a single 5 mg dose of dutasteride followed 1 hour later by a 12 g dose of cholestyramine does not affect the relative bioavailability of dutasteride [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . (5.2 , 7.1 , 12.3) • Concomitant use of PDE5 inhibitors with tamsulosin can potentially cause symptomatic hypotension. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules, 0.4 mg should not be used with strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole). Tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules should be used with caution in combination with moderate inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., erythromycin), in combination with strong (e.g., paroxetine) or moderate (e.g., terbinafine) inhibitors of CYP2D6, or in patients known to be CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, particularly at a dose higher than 0.4 mg (e.g., 0.8 mg) ( 5.2 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) Concomitant use of PDE5 inhibitors with tamsulosin can potentially cause symptomatic hypotension ( 5.2 , 7.3 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Cytochrome P450 Inhibition Strong and Moderate Inhibitors of CYP3A4 or CYP2D6 Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized, mainly by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. Concomitant treatment with ketoconazole (a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4) resulted in an increase in the C max and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., erythromycin) on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin have not been evaluated [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Concomitant treatment with paroxetine (a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6) resulted in an increase in the C max and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 1.3 and 1.6, respectively [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Since CYP2D6 PMs cannot be readily identified and the potential for significant increase in tamsulosin exposure exists when tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules, 0.4 mg is coadministered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors in CYP2D6 PMs, tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules, 0.4 mg should not be used in combination with strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor (e.g., terbinafine) on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin have not been evaluated [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . However, there is a potential for significant increase in tamsulosin exposure when tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules, 0.4 mg is coadministered with a combination of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Cimetidine Treatment with cimetidine resulted in a significant decrease (26%) in the clearance of tamsulosin hydrochloride, which resulted in a moderate increase in tamsulosin hydrochloride AUC (44%) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.2 Other Alpha Adrenergic Blocking Agents The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules and other alpha adrenergic blocking agents have not been determined; however, interactions between tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules and other alpha adrenergic blocking agents may be expected [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Concomitant use of these two drug classes can potentially cause symptomatic hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Caution should be exercised with concomitant administration of warfarin and tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.5 Nifedipine, Atenolol, Enalapril Dosage adjustments are not necessary when tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules are administered concomitantly with nifedipine, atenolol, or enalapril [see clinical pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.6 Digoxin and Theophylline Dosage adjustments are not necessary when a tamsulosin hydrochloride capsule is administered concomitantly with digoxin or theophylline [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . While furosemide produced an 11% to 12% reduction in tamsulosin hydrochloride C max and AUC, these changes are expected to be clinically insignificant and do not require adjustment of the tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules dosage [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . ( 5.2 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) Concomitant use of PDE5 inhibitors with tamsulosin can potentially cause symptomatic hypotension ( 5.2 , 7.3 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Cytochrome P450 Inhibition Strong and Moderate Inhibitors of CYP3A4 or CYP2D6 Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized, mainly by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., erythromycin) on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules have not been evaluated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Since CYP2D6 PMs cannot be readily identified and the potential for significant increase in tamsulosin exposure exists when tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules 0.4 mg are co-administered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors in CYP2D6 PMs, tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules 0.4 mg should not be used in combination with strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor (e.g., terbinafine) on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules have not been evaluated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . However, there is a potential for significant increase in tamsulosin exposure when tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules 0.4 mg are co-administered with a combination of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., erythromycin) on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin hydrochloride have not been evaluated [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Since CYP2D6 PMs cannot be readily identified and the potential for significant increase in tamsulosin exposure exists when tamsulosin hydrochloride 0.4 mg is co-administered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors in CYP2D6 PMs, tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules 0.4 mg should not be used in combination with strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole) [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor (e.g., terbinafine) on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin hydrochloride have not been evaluated [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. However, there is a potential for significant increase in tamsulosin exposure when tamsulosin hydrochloride 0.4 mg is co-administered with a combination of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitors [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.5 Nifedipine, Atenolol, Enalapril Dosage adjustments are not necessary when tamsulosin hydrochloride capsules are administered concomitantly with nifedipine, atenolol, or enalapril [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. ( 5.2 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) Concomitant use of PDE5 inhibitors with tamsulosin can potentially cause symptomatic hypotension ( 5.2, 7.3 , 12.3) 7.1 Cytochrome P450 Inhibition Strong and Moderate Inhibitors of CYP3A4 or CYP2D6 Tamsulosin is extensively metabolized, mainly by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. Concomitant treatment with ketoconazole (a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4) resulted in an increase in the C max and AUC of tamsulosin by a factor of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. The effects of concomitant administration of a moderate CYP2D6 inhibitor (e.g., terbinafine) on the pharmacokinetics of tamsulosin hydrochloride have not been evaluated [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3) ]. However, there is a potential for significant increase in tamsulosin exposure when tamsulosin hydrochloride 0.4 mg is co-administered with a combination of both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 inhibitors [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3) ].

=== WATER ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose antiperspirant Purpose Acne Treatment Purpose Sunscreen Active ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 3% Sunscreen Homosalate 10% Sunscreen Octisalate 5% Sunscreen Octocrylene 10% Sunscreen Purpose Eyewash
Indications: Uses • reduces underarm wetness Uses For the treatment of acne Helps prevent new acne blemishes Uses - helps prevent sunburn - if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses helps prevent sunburn. if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun. Uses washes the eye to help relieve • irritation • stinging • discomfort • itching • burning by removing • loose foreign material • air pollutants (smog or pollen) • chlorinated water Uses helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses washes the eye to help relieve irritation discomfort burning stinging itching by removing loose foreign material air pollutants (smog or pollen) chlorinated water
Dosage: Directions apply to underarms only Directions Cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying medication. Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily. Because excessive drying of the skin may occur, start with one application daily, then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor. If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs, reduce application to once a day or every other day. Sensitivity Test for a New User. Apply product sparingly to one or two small affected areas during the first 3 days. If no discomfort occurs, follow the directions stated eleswhere on this label. Directions For sunscreen use: shake well before use apply generously 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply: ● after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ● immediately after towel drying ● at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures . Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: ● limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. ● wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor Directions spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure hold container 4-6 inches from the skin to apply. Rub in. do not spray directly into face. Spray on hands and then apply to face. do not apply in windy conditions use in a well-ventilated area reapply: after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating immediately after towel drying at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor Directions apply generously 15 minutes before sun exposure. reapply after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating. immediately after towel drying. at least every 2 hours. Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m.-2 p.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses. children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor. Directions For use with a nozzle applicator. • flush the affected eye(s) as needed • control the rate of flow of solution by pressure on the bottle • do not touch dropper tip to eye When using an eye cup • rinse the cup with Soothing Eye Wash Solution immediately before each use • avoid contamination of the rim and inside surfaces of the cup • fill the cup half full with Soothing Eye Wash Solution and apply the cup to the affected eye(s), pressing tightly to prevent spillage Other information • store at 15°-25°C (59°-77°F) • keep tightly closed • does not contain thimerosal • enclosed eyecup is sterile if packaging is intact • use before expiration date marked on the carton or bottle Direction for use graphics Directions For sunscreen use: ● apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure ● reapply: ● after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ● immediately after towel drying ● at least every 2 hours ● Sun Protection Measures . ● wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses ● children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor Directions apply generously 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating immediately after towel drying at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher andd other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m.-2 p.m. Directions For sunscreen use: ● apply generously 15 minutes before sun exposure ● reapply: ● after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ● immediately after towel drying ● at least every 2 hours ● Sun Protection Measures . Directions For use with nozzle applicator flush the affected eye(s) as needed control the rate of flow of solution by pressure on the bottle do not touch dropper tip to eye When using an eye cup rinse the cup with Eye Wash Solution immediately before each use avoid contamination of the rim and inside surfaces of the cup fill the cup half full with Eye Wash Solution and apply the cup to the affected eye(s), pressing tightly to prevent spillage tilt the head backward. Open eyelids wide and rotate eyeball to thoroughly wash the eye rinse cup with clean water after each use replace cap after use
Warnings: Warnings • FLAMMABLE. DO NOT USE NEAR HEAT, FLAME, OR WHILE SMOKING. CAN CAUSE SERIOUS INJURY OR DEATH • Keep away from face and mouth to avoid breathing in. • Avoid spraying in eyes. Contents under pressure. Do not puncture or incinerate. Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120°F/50°C or in enclosed places that could overheat • Do not use on broken skin. Stop use if rash or irritation occurs. • Ask a doctor before using if you have kidney disease. • USE ONLY AS DIRECTED. INTENTIONAL MISUSE BY DELIBERATELY CONCENTRATING AND INHALING THE CONTENTS CAN BE HARMFUL OR FATAL. Help stop inhalation abuse. For information visit www.inhalant.org Warnings For external use only. When using this product skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time. If irritation occurs, only use one topical acne medication at a time. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove. keep away from face to avoid breathing it Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Danger: Flammable. Do not use near fire, heat or while smoking. Store at temperature below 120°F (48°C). Use only as directed. Do not use on damaged or broken skin. When using this product keep out of eyes.Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Warnings For external use only Do not use • if you have open wounds in or near the eyes, and get medical help right away • if solution changes color or becomes cloudy When using this product • remove contact lenses before using • do not touch tip of container to any surface to avoid contamination • replace cap after use Stop use and ask a doctor if • you experience eye pain, changes in vision, continued redness or irritation of the eye • condition worsens or persists Keep out of reach of children. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. Warnings For external use only Do not use if you have open wounds in or near the eyes, and get medical help right away if solution changes color or becomes cloudy When using this product remove contact lenses before using do not touch the tip of container to any surface to avoid contamination replace cap after each use Stop use and ask a doctor if • you experience eye pain, changes in vision, continued redness or irritation of the eye • condition worsens or persists Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away.

=== CARBIDOPA AND LEVODOPA ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets are indicated in the treatment of Parkinson’s disease, post-encephalitic parkinsonism, and symptomatic parkinsonism that may follow carbon monoxide intoxication or manganese intoxication. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carbidopa and levodopa tablets are indicated in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, post-encephalitic parkinsonism, and symptomatic parkinsonism that may follow carbon monoxide intoxication or manganese intoxication. Carbidopa allows patients treated for Parkinson's disease to use much lower doses of levodopa. Some patients who responded poorly to levodopa have improved on carbidopa and levodopa tablets. This is most likely due to decreased peripheral decarboxylation of levodopa caused by administration of carbidopa rather than by a primary effect of carbidopa on the nervous system. Carbidopa has not been shown to enhance the intrinsic efficacy of levodopa. Carbidopa may also reduce nausea and vomiting and permit more rapid titration of levodopa. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets, USP are indicated in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, post-encephalitic parkinsonism, and symptomatic parkinsonism that may follow carbon monoxide intoxication or manganese intoxication. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE CREXONT is indicated for the treatment of Parkinson's disease, post-encephalitic parkinsonism, and parkinsonism that may follow carbon monoxide intoxication or manganese intoxication in adults. CREXONT is a combination of carbidopa (an aromatic amino acid decarboxylation inhibitor) and levodopa (an aromatic amino acid) indicated for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease, post-encephalitic parkinsonism, and parkinsonism that may follow carbon monoxide intoxication or manganese intoxication in adults. ( 1 ) Some patients who responded poorly to levodopa have improved on carbidopa and levodopa. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carbidopa and levodopa tablets, USP are indicated in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, post-encephalitic parkinsonism, and symptomatic parkinsonism that may follow carbon monoxide intoxication or manganese intoxication.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets contain carbidopa and levodopa in a 1:4 ratio as either the 50-200 tablet or the 25-100 tablet. The daily dosage of carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets must be determined by careful titration. Patients should be monitored closely during the dose adjustment period, particularly with regard to appearance or worsening of involuntary movements, dyskinesias or nausea. Carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets should not be chewed or crushed. Standard drugs for Parkinson’s disease, other than levodopa without a decarboxylase inhibitor, may be used concomitantly while carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets are being administered, although their dosage may have to be adjusted. Since carbidopa prevents the reversal of levodopa effects caused by pyridoxine, carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets can be given to patients receiving supplemental pyridoxine (vitamin B 6 ). Initial Dosage Patients Currently Treated with Conventional Carbidopa-Levodopa Preparations Studies show that peripheral dopa-decarboxylase is saturated by the bioavailable carbidopa at doses of 70 mg a day and greater. Because the bioavailabilities of carbidopa and levodopa in carbidopa and levodopa immediate-release tablets and carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets are different, appropriate adjustments should be made, as shown in Table 2. Table 2: Approximate Bioavailabilities at Steady State This table is only a guide to bioavailabilities since other factors such as food, drugs, and inter-patient variabilities may affect the bioavailability of carbidopa and levodopa. Tablet Amount of Levodopa (mg) in Each Tablet Approximate Bioavailability Approximate Amount of Bioavailable Levodopa (mg) in Each Tablet Carbidopa and Levodopa Extended-Release Tablets 50 mg/200 mg 200 0.70-0.75 The extent of availability of levodopa from carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets was about 70-75% relative to intravenous levodopa or standard carbidopa and levodopa immediate-release tablets in the elderly. 140-150 Carbidopa and Levodopa Immediate-Release Tablets 25 mg/100 mg 100 0.99 The extent of availability of levodopa from carbidopa and levodopa immediate-release tablets was 99% relative to intravenous levodopa in the healthy elderly. 99 Dosage with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets should be substituted at an amount that provides approximately 10% more levodopa per day, although this may need to be increased to a dosage that provides up to 30% more levodopa per day depending on clinical response (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Titration with Carbidopa and Levodopa Extended-Release Tablets ). The interval between doses of carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets should be 4-8 hours during the waking day (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacodynamics ). A guideline for initiation of carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets is shown in Table 3. Table 3: Guidelines for Initial Conversion from Carbidopa and Levodopa Immediate-Release Tablets to Carbidopa and Levodopa Extended-Release Tablets Carbidopa and Levodopa Immediate-Release Tablets Total Daily Dose For dosing ranges not shown in the table see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Initial Dosage: Patients Currently Treated with Conventional Carbidopa and Levodopa Preparations. Levodopa (mg) Carbidopa and Levodopa Extended-Release Tablets Suggested Dosage Regimen 300-400 200 mg b.i.d. 500-600 300 mg b.i.d. or 200 mg t.i.d. 700-800 A total of 800 mg in 3 or more divided doses (e.g., 300 mg a.m., 300 mg early p.m., and 200 mg later p.m.) 900-1000 A total of 1000 mg in 3 or more divided doses (e.g., 400 mg a.m., 400 mg early p.m., and 200 mg later p.m.) Patients Currently Treated with Levodopa Without a Decarboxylase Inhibitor Levodopa must be discontinued at least twelve hours before therapy with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets is started. Carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets should be substituted at a dosage that will provide approximately 25% of the previous levodopa dosage. In patients with mild to moderate disease, the initial dose is usually 1 tablet of 50 mg/200 mg carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets b.i.d. Patients Not Receiving Levodopa In patients with mild to moderate disease, the initial recommended dose is 1 tablet of 50 mg/200 mg carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets b.i.d. Initial dosage should not be given at intervals of less than 6 hours. Titration with Carbidopa and Levodopa Extended-Release Tablets Following initiation of therapy, doses and dosing intervals may be increased or decreased depending upon therapeutic response. Most patients have been adequately treated with doses of carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets that provide 400 to 1600 mg of levodopa per day, administered as divided doses at intervals ranging from 4 to 8 hours during the waking day. Higher doses of carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets (2400 mg or more of levodopa per day) and shorter intervals (less than 4 hours) have been used, but are not usually recommended. When doses of carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets are given at intervals of less than 4 hours, and/or if the divided doses are not equal, it is recommended that the smaller doses be given at the end of the day. An interval of at least 3 days between dosage adjustments is recommended. Maintenance Because Parkinson’s disease is progressive, periodic clinical evaluations are recommended; adjustment of the dosage regimen of carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets may be required. Addition of Other Antiparkinson Medications Anticholinergic agents, dopamine agonists, and amantadine can be given with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets. Dosage adjustment of carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets may be necessary when these agents are added. A dose of carbidopa and levodopa immediate-release tablets 25/100 or 10/100 (one half or a whole tablet) can be added to the dosage regimen of carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets in selected patients with advanced disease who need additional immediate-release levodopa for a brief time during daytime hours. Interruption of Therapy Sporadic cases of hyperpyrexia and confusion have been associated with dose reductions and withdrawal of carbidopa and levodopa immediate-release tablets or carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets. Patients should be observed carefully if abrupt reduction or discontinuation of carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets is required, especially if the patient is receiving neuroleptics (see WARNINGS ). If general anesthesia is required, carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets may be continued as long as the patient is permitted to take oral medication. If therapy is interrupted temporarily, the patient should be observed for symptoms resembling NMS, and the usual dosage should be administered as soon as the patient is able to take oral medication. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The optimum daily dosage of carbidopa and levodopa tablets must be determined by careful titration in each patient. Carbidopa and levodopa tablets are available in a 1:4 ratio of carbidopa to levodopa (carbidopa and levodopa tablets 25 mg/100 mg) as well as 1:10 ratio (carbidopa and levodopa tablets 25 mg/250 mg and carbidopa and levodopa tablets 10 mg/100 mg). Tablets of the two ratios may be given separately or combined as needed to provide the optimum dosage. Studies show that peripheral dopa decarboxylase is saturated by carbidopa at approximately 70 mg to 100 mg a day. Patients receiving less than this amount of carbidopa are more likely to experience nausea and vomiting. Usual Initial Dosage Dosage is best initiated with one tablet of carbidopa and levodopa tablets 25 mg/100 mg three times a day. This dosage schedule provides 75 mg of carbidopa per day. Dosage may be increased by one tablet every day or every other day, as necessary, until a dosage of eight tablets of carbidopa and levodopa tablets 25 mg/100 mg a day is reached. If carbidopa and levodopa tablets 10 mg/100 mg are used, dosage may be initiated with one tablet three or four times a day. However, this will not provide an adequate amount of carbidopa for many patients. Dosage may be increased by one tablet every day or every other day until a total of eight tablets (2 tablets q.i.d.) is reached. How to Transfer Patients from Levodopa Levodopa must be discontinued at least twelve hours before starting carbidopa and levodopa tablets. A daily dosage of carbidopa and levodopa tablets should be chosen that will provide approximately 25% of the previous levodopa dosage. Patients who are taking less than 1,500 mg of levodopa a day should be started on one tablet of carbidopa and levodopa tablets 25 mg/100 mg three or four times a day. The suggested starting dosage for most patients taking more than 1,500 mg of levodopa is one tablet of carbidopa and levodopa tablets 25 mg/250 mg three or four times a day. Maintenance Therapy should be individualized and adjusted according to the desired therapeutic response. At least 70 mg to 100 mg of carbidopa per day should be provided. When a greater proportion of carbidopa is required, one tablet of carbidopa and levodopa tablets 25 mg/100 mg may be substituted for each tablet of carbidopa and levodopa tablets 10 mg/100 mg. When more levodopa is required, carbidopa and levodopa tablets 25 mg/250 mg should be substituted for carbidopa and levodopa tablets 25 mg/100 mg or carbidopa and levodopa tablets 10 mg/100 mg. If necessary, the dosage of carbidopa and levodopa tablets 25 mg/250 mg may be increased by one-half or one tablet every day or every other day to a maximum of eight tablets a day. Experience with total daily dosages of carbidopa greater than 200 mg is limited. Because both therapeutic and adverse responses occur more rapidly with carbidopa and levodopa tablets than with levodopa alone, patients should be monitored closely during the dose adjustment period. Specifically, involuntary movements will occur more rapidly with carbidopa and levodopa tablets than with levodopa. The occurrence of involuntary movements may require dosage reduction. Blepharospasm may be a useful early sign of excess dosage in some patients. Addition of Other Antiparkinsonian Medications Standard drugs for Parkinson's disease, other than levodopa without a decarboxylase inhibitor, may be used concomitantly while carbidopa and levodopa tablets are being administered, although dosage adjustments may be required. Interruption of Therapy Sporadic cases of hyperpyrexia and confusion have been associated with dose reductions and withdrawal of carbidopa and levodopa tablets. Patients should be observed carefully if abrupt reduction or discontinuation of carbidopa and levodopa tablets are required, especially if the patient is receiving neuroleptics. (See WARNINGS .) If general anesthesia is required, carbidopa and levodopa tablets may be continued as long as the patient is permitted to take fluids and medication by mouth. If therapy is interrupted temporarily, the patient should be observed for symptoms resembling NMS, and the usual daily dosage may be administered as soon as the patient is able to take oral medication. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets contain carbidopa and levodopa in a 1:4 ratio as either the 50 mg/200 mg tablet or the 25 mg/100 mg tablet. Initial Dosage Patients currently treated with conventional carbidopa and levodopa preparations: Studies show that peripheral dopa-decarboxylase is saturated by the bioavailable carbidopa at doses of 70 mg a day and greater. Because the bioavailabilities of carbidopa and levodopa in carbidopa and levodopa immediate-release tablets and carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets are different, appropriate adjustments should be made, as shown in Table 2 . Table 2: Approximate Bioavailabilities at Steady-State This table is only a guide to bioavailabilities since other factors such as food, drugs, and inter-patient variabilities may affect the bioavailability of carbidopa and levodopa. Tablet Amount of Levodopa (mg) in Each Tablet Approximate Bioavailability Approximate Amount of Bioavailable Levodopa (mg) in Each Tablet Carbidopa and Levodopa Extended-release Tablets 50 mg/200 mg 200 0.70 to 0.75 The extent of availability of levodopa from carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets was about 70% to 75% relative to intravenous levodopa or standard carbidopa and levodopa tablets in the elderly. 140 to 150 Carbidopa and Levodopa Immediate-release Tablets 25 mg/100 mg 100 0.99 The extent of availability of levodopa from carbidopa and levodopa tablets was 99% relative to intravenous levodopa in the healthy elderly. The interval between doses of carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets should be 4 to 8 hours during the waking day (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacodynamics ). A guideline for initiation of carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets is shown in Table 3 . Table 3: Guidelines for Initial Conversion from Carbidopa and Levodopa Immediate-release Tablets to Carbidopa and Levodopa Extended-release Tablets Carbidopa and Levodopa Tablets Carbidopa and Levodopa Extended-release Tablets Total Daily Dose For dosing ranges not shown in the table see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Initial Dosage: Patients Currently Treated with Conventional Carbidopa and Levodopa Preparations. - Levodopa (mg) Suggested Dosage Regimen 300-400 200 mg b.i.d. 700-800 A total of 800 mg in 3 or more divided doses (e.g., 300 mg a.m., 300 mg early p.m. and 200 mg later p.m.) 900-1000 A total of 1000 mg in 3 or more divided doses (e.g., 400 mg a.m., 400 mg early p.m., and 200 mg later p.m.) Patients currently treated with levodopa without a decarboxylase inhibitor: Levodopa must be discontinued at least twelve hours before therapy with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets is started. In patients with mild to moderate disease, the initial dose is usually one tablet of 50 mg/200 mg carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets b.i.d. Patients not receiving levodopa: In patients with mild to moderate disease, the initial recommended dose is one tablet of 50 mg/200 mg carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets b.i.d. Most patients have been adequately treated with doses of carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets that provide 400 mg to 1,600 mg of levodopa per day, administered as divided doses at intervals ranging from 4 to 8 hours during the waking day. Higher doses of carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets (2,400 mg or more of levodopa per day) and shorter intervals (less than 4 hours) have been used, but are not usually recommended. Maintenance Because Parkinson's disease is progressive, periodic clinical evaluations are recommended; adjustment of the dosage regimen of carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets may be required. A dose of carbidopa and levodopa immediate-release tablets 25 mg/100 mg or 10 mg/100 mg (one half or a whole tablet) can be added to the dosage regimen of carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets in selected patients with advanced disease who need additional immediate-release levodopa for a brief time during daytime hours. Interruption of Therapy Sporadic cases of hyperpyrexia and confusion have been associated with dose reductions and withdrawal of carbidopa and levodopa tablets or carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Evaluate vitamin B6 levels prior to starting treatment with carbidopa/levodopa therapies. ( 2.1 ) Levodopa-naïve patients: Starting dose is 35 mg carbidopa / 140 mg levodopa taken orally twice daily for the first 3 days; on the fourth day of treatment, dosage may be increased gradually as needed. ( 2.2 ) Patients converting from immediate-release carbidopa/levodopa: See Table 1 for instructions; dosages are not substitutable on a 1:1 basis. ( 2.3 ) The maximum recommended daily dosage of CREXONT is 525 mg carbidopa / 2100 mg levodopa. ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) CREXONT may be taken with or without food; do not chew, divide, or crush. ( 2.5 , 12.3 ) CREXONT should not be taken with alcohol. ( 2.5 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Management of Vitamin B6 Levels Evaluate vitamin B6 levels prior to initiating carbidopa/levodopa therapies, including CREXONT, periodically during treatment, and as clinically indicated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. If vitamin B6 levels are low, supplement to sufficient levels per standard of care. Patients may initiate and continue treatment with CREXONT while supplementing vitamin B6. 2.2 Dosage in Patients Naïve to Levodopa Therapy The recommended starting dosage of CREXONT in levodopa-naïve patients is 35 mg carbidopa / 140 mg levodopa taken orally twice daily for the first three days. Thereafter, dosage may be increased gradually as needed to a maximum daily dosage of 525 mg carbidopa / 2100 mg levodopa divided up to four times daily. 2.3 Dosage in Patients Converting from Immediate-Release Carbidopa-Levodopa to CREXONT The dosages of immediate-release carbidopa-levodopa products are not substitutable on a 1:1 basis with the dosages of CREXONT. To convert patients from immediate-release carbidopa-levodopa to CREXONT, follow these steps: Step 1: Determine the patient’s total daily dosage of immediate-release levodopa. Step 2: Determine the patient’s most frequent single dose of immediate-release levodopa. If more than one dose corresponds to the most frequent, use the highest of the doses. Step 3: Find the values from Step 1 and Step 2 in Table 1 (below) to determine the recommended starting CREXONT dosage of levodopa and dosing frequency. Step 4: After one to three days, adjust the dose or frequency as needed based on the patient’s clinical response and tolerability. Dosage may be increased gradually as needed to a maximum daily dosage of 525 mg carbidopa / 2100 mg levodopa divided up to four times daily. Table 1: Conversion from Immediate-Release Carbidopa-Levodopa to CREXONT Total Daily Immediate-Release Levodopa Dosage Most Frequent Immediate-Release Levodopa Single Dose Recommended Starting CREXONT Dosage of Levodopa Less than 500 mg daily 100 mg 280 mg twice daily 150 mg 420 mg twice daily 200 mg 560 mg twice daily Equal to or greater than 500 mg daily 100 mg 280 mg three times daily 150 mg 420 mg three times daily 200 mg 560 mg three times daily Greater than 200 mg 700 mg three times daily For patients currently treated with carbidopa and levodopa plus a catechol-O-methyl transferase (COMT) inhibitor (e.g., entacapone or opicapone), the initial total daily dose of levodopa in CREXONT may need to be increased if the COMT inhibitor is discontinued. Use of CREXONT in combination with other levodopa products has not been studied. 2.4 Dosage for Patients Converting from Extended-Release Carbidopa-Levodopa (Rytary) to CREXONT For patients converting from RYTARY (extended-release carbidopa-levodopa), initiate CREXONT on an approximately 1:1 mg basis using the levodopa component for conversion. 2.5 Administration Information Swallow CREXONT whole with or without food. CREXONT should not be taken with alcohol. A high-fat, high-calorie meal may delay the absorption of levodopa to reach the peak plasma concentration by about 2 hours [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Do not chew, divide, or crush CREXONT capsules. 2.6 Discontinuation of CREXONT Avoid sudden discontinuation or rapid dose reduction of CREXONT. The daily dose of CREXONT should be tapered at the time of treatment discontinuation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Studies show that peripheral dopa decarboxylase is saturated by carbidopa at approximately 70 to 100 mg a day. Usual Initial Dosage Dosage is best initiated with one tablet of carbidopa and levodopa 25 mg/100 mg three times a day. Dosage may be increased by one tablet every day or every other day, as necessary, until a dosage of eight tablets of carbidopa and levodopa 25 mg/100 mg a day is reached. If carbidopa and levodopa tablets 10 mg/100 is used, dosage may be initiated with one tablet three or four times a day. Patients who are taking less than 1500 mg of levodopa a day should be started on one tablet of carbidopa and levodopa 25 mg/100 mg three or four times a day. The suggested starting dosage for most patients taking more than 1500 mg of levodopa is one tablet of carbidopa and levodopa 25 mg/250 mg three or four times a day. At least 70 to 100 mg of carbidopa per day should be provided. When a greater proportion of carbidopa is required, one tablet of carbidopa and levodopa 25 mg/100 mg may be substituted for each tablet of carbidopa and levodopa 10 mg/100 mg. Because both therapeutic and adverse responses occur more rapidly with carbidopa and levodopa than with levodopa alone, patients should be monitored closely during the dose adjustment period. Specifically, involuntary movements will occur more rapidly with carbidopa and levodopa than with levodopa. (See WARNINGS.) If general anesthesia is required, carbidopa and levodopa tablets may be continued as long as the patient is permitted to take fluids and medication by mouth. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablet contains carbidopa and levodopa in a 1:4 ratio as either the 50 mg/200 mg tablet or the 25 mg/100 mg tablet. Standard drugs for Parkinson’s disease, other than levodopa without a decarboxylase inhibitor, may be used concomitantly while carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablet is being administered, although their dosage may have to be adjusted. Because the bioavailabilities of carbidopa and levodopa in carbidopa and levodopa tablets and carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets are different, appropriate adjustments should be made, as shown in Table 2. Table 2: Approximate Bioavailabilities at Steady State * Tablet Amount of Levodopa (mg) in Each Tablet Approximate Bioavailability Approximate Amount of Bioavailable Levodopa (mg) in Each Tablet Carbidopa and Levodopa Extended-release Tablets, 50 mg/200 mg 200 0.70 to 0.75 † 140 to 150 Carbidopa and Levodopa Tablets, 25 mg/100 mg 100 0.99 †† 99 * This table is only a guide to bioavailabilities since other factors such as food, drugs, and inter-patient variabilities may affect the bioavailability of carbidopa and levodopa. † The extent of availability of levodopa from carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets was about 70% to 75% relative to intravenous levodopa or standard carbidopa and levodopa tablets in the elderly. †† The extent of availability of levodopa from carbidopa and levodopa tablets was 99% relative to intravenous levodopa in the healthy elderly. Dosage with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets should be substituted at an amount that provides approximately 10% more levodopa per day, although this may need to be increased to a dosage that provides up to 30% more levodopa per day depending on clinical response (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Titration with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablet s ). The interval between doses of carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets should be 4 to 8 hours during the waking day. (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacodynamics . ) A guideline for initiation of carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets is shown in Table 3. Table 3: Guidelines for Initial Conversion from Carbidopa and Levodopa Tablets to Carbidopa and Levodopa Extended-release Tablets Carbidopa and Levodopa Tablets Carbidopa and Levodopa Extended-release Tablets Total Daily Dose * Suggested Levodopa (mg) Dosage Regimen 300 to 400 200 mg b.i.d. 500 to 600 300 mg b.i.d. 700 to 800 A total of 800 mg in 3 or more divided doses (e.g., 300 mg a.m., 300 mg early p.m., and 200 mg later p.m.) 900 to 1,000 A total of 1,000 mg in 3 or more divided doses (e.g., 400 mg a.m., 400 mg early p.m., and 200 mg later p.m.) * For dosing ranges not shown in the table see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Initial Dosage – Patients currently treated with conventional carbidopa and levodopa preparations . Patients currently treated with levodopa without a decarboxylase inhibitor: Levodopa must be discontinued at least twelve hours before therapy with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets is started. In patients with mild to moderate disease, the initial dose is usually 1 tablet of carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets 50 mg/200 mg b.i.d. Patients not receiving levodopa: In patients with mild to moderate disease, the initial recommended dose is 1 tablet of carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets 50 mg/200 mg b.i.d. Maintenance Because Parkinson’s disease is progressive, periodic clinical evaluations are recommended; adjustment of the dosage regimen of carbidopa and levodopa extended release tablets may be required. A dose of carbidopa and levodopa tablets, 25 mg/100 mg or 10 mg/100 mg (one half or a whole tablet) can be added to the dosage regimen of carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets in selected patients with advanced disease who need additional immediate-release levodopa for a brief time during daytime hours. Patients should be observed carefully if abrupt reduction or discontinuation of carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets is required, especially if the patient is receiving neuroleptics. (see WARNINGS .) If general anesthesia is required, carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets may be continued as long as the patient is permitted to take oral medication. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The optimum daily dosage of carbidopa and levodopa must be determined by careful titration in each patient. Carbidopa and levodopa tablets are available in a 1:4 ratio of carbidopa to levodopa (25 mg/100 mg) as well as 1:10 ratio (25 mg/250 mg and 10 mg/100 mg). If carbidopa and levodopa 10 mg/100 mg is used, dosage may be initiated with one tablet three or four times a day. Dosage may be increased by one tablet every day or every other day until a total of eight tablets (2 tablets four times a day) is reached. How to Transfer Patients from Levodopa Levodopa must be discontinued at least twelve hours before starting this combination product. A daily dosage of carbidopa and levodopa should be chosen that will provide approximately 25% of the previous levodopa dosage. Patients who are taking less than 1,500 mg of levodopa a day should be started on one tablet of carbidopa and levodopa 25 mg/100 mg three or four times a day. The suggested starting dosage for most patients taking more than 1,500 mg of levodopa is one tablet of carbidopa and levodopa 25 mg/250 mg three or four times a day. When a greater proportion of carbidopa is required, one 25 mg/100 mg tablet may be substituted for each 10 mg/100 mg tablet. When more levodopa is required, each 25 mg/250 mg tablet should be substituted for a 25 mg/100 mg tablet or a 10 mg/100 mg tablet. If necessary, the dosage of carbidopa and levodopa 25 mg/250 mg may be increased by one-half or one tablet every day or every other day to a maximum of eight tablets a day. Because both therapeutic and adverse responses occur more rapidly with this combination product than with levodopa alone, patients should be monitored closely during the dose adjustment period. Addition of Other Antiparkinsonian Medications Standard drugs for Parkinson's disease, other than levodopa without a decarboxylase inhibitor, may be used concomitantly while carbidopa and levodopa is being administered, although dosage adjustments may be required. Interruption of Therapy Sporadic cases of hyperpyrexia and confusion have been associated with dose reductions and withdrawal of carbidopa and levodopa. Patients should be observed carefully if abrupt reduction or discontinuation of carbidopa and levodopa is required, especially if the patient is receiving neuroleptics (see WARNINGS ). If general anesthesia is required, carbidopa and levodopa may be continued as long as the patient is permitted to take fluids and medication by mouth. If carbidopa and levodopa tablets 10 mg/100 mg is used, dosage may be initiated with one tablet three or four times a day. Patients who are taking less than 1500 mg of levodopa a day should be started on one tablet of carbidopa and levodopa tablets 25 mg/100 mg three or four times a day. The suggested starting dosage for most patients taking more than 1500 mg of levodopa is one tablet of carbidopa and levodopa tablets 25 mg/250 mg three or four times a day. When a greater proportion of carbidopa is required, one carbidopa and levodopa 25 mg/100 mg tablet may be substituted for each carbidopa and levodopa 10 mg/100 mg tablet. When more levodopa is required, a carbidopa and levodopa 25 mg/250 mg tablet should be substituted for a carbidopa and levopdopa 25 mg/100 mg tablet or a carbidopa and levodopa 10 mg/100 mg tablet. Patients should be observed carefully if abrupt reduction or discontinuation of carbidopa and levodopa tablets is required, especially if the patient is receiving neuroleptics.
Warnings: WARNINGS When patients are receiving levodopa without a decarboxylase inhibitor, levodopa must be discontinued at least twelve hours before carbidopa and levodopa extended-release is started. In order to reduce adverse reactions, it is necessary to individualize therapy. See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section before initiating therapy. Carbidopa and levodopa extended-release should be substituted at a dosage that will provide approximately 25% of the previous levodopa dosage (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Carbidopa does not decrease adverse reactions due to central effects of levodopa. By permitting more levodopa to reach the brain, particularly when nausea and vomiting is not a dose-limiting factor, certain adverse central nervous system (CNS) effects, e.g., dyskinesias, will occur at lower dosages and sooner during therapy with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release than with levodopa alone. Patients receiving carbidopa and levodopa extended-release may develop increased dyskinesias compared to carbidopa and levodopa immediate-release. Dyskinesias are a common side effect of carbidopa-levodopa treatment. The occurrence of dyskinesias may require dosage reduction. All patients should be observed carefully for the development of depression with concomitant suicidal tendencies. Carbidopa and levodopa extended-release should be administered cautiously to patients with severe cardiovascular or pulmonary disease, bronchial asthma, renal, hepatic or endocrine disease. As with levodopa, care should be exercised in administering carbidopa and levodopa extended-release to patients with a history of myocardial infarction who have residual atrial, nodal, or ventricular arrhythmias. In such patients, cardiac function should be monitored with particular care during the period of initial dosage adjustment, in a facility with provisions for intensive cardiac care. As with levodopa, treatment with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release may increase the possibility of upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage in patients with a history of peptic ulcer. Falling Asleep During Activities of Daily Living and Somnolence Patients taking carbidopa and levodopa extended-release alone or with other dopaminergic drugs have reported suddenly falling asleep without prior warning of sleepiness while engaged in activities of daily living (includes operation of motor vehicles). Road traffic accidents attributed to sudden sleep onset have been reported. Although many patients reported somnolence while on dopaminergic medications, there have been reports of road traffic accidents attributed to sudden onset of sleep in which the patient did not perceive any warning signs, such as excessive drowsiness, and believed that they were alert immediately prior to the event. Sudden onset of sleep has been reported to occur as long as one year after the initiation of treatment. Falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living usually occurs in patients experiencing preexisting somnolence, although some patients may not give such a history. For this reason, prescribers should reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness especially since some of the events occur well after the start of treatment. Prescribers should be aware that patients may not acknowledge drowsiness or sleepiness until directly questioned about drowsiness or sleepiness during specific activities. Patients should be advised to exercise caution while driving or operating machines during treatment with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release. Patients who have already experienced somnolence or an episode of sudden sleep onset should not participate in these activities during treatment with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release. Before initiating treatment with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release, advise patients about the potential to develop drowsiness and ask specifically about factors that may increase the risk for somnolence with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release such as the use of concomitant sedating medications and the presence of sleep disorders. Consider discontinuing carbidopa and levodopa extended-release in patients who report significant daytime sleepiness or episodes of falling asleep during activities that require active participation (e.g., conversations, eating, etc.). If treatment with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release continues, patients should be advised not to drive and to avoid other potentially dangerous activities that might result in harm if the patients become somnolent. There is insufficient information to establish that dose reduction will eliminate episodes of falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living. Hyperpyrexia and Confusion Sporadic cases of a symptom complex resembling neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) have been reported in association with dose reductions or withdrawal of certain antiparkinsonian agents such as levodopa, carbidopa-levodopa and carbidopa and levodopa extended-release. Therefore, patients should be observed carefully when the dosage of levodopa is reduced abruptly or discontinued, especially if the patient is receiving neuroleptics. NMS is an uncommon but life-threatening syndrome characterized by fever or hyperthermia. Neurological findings, including muscle rigidity, involuntary movements, altered consciousness, mental status changes; other disturbances, such as autonomic dysfunction, tachycardia, tachypnea, sweating, hyper- or hypotension; laboratory findings, such as creatine phosphokinase elevation, leukocytosis, myoglobinuria, and increased serum myoglobin have been reported. The early diagnosis of this condition is important for the appropriate management of these patients. Considering NMS as a possible diagnosis and ruling out other acute illnesses (e.g., pneumonia, systemic infection, etc.) is essential. This may be especially complex if the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms (EPS). Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity, heat stroke, drug fever, and primary central nervous system (CNS) pathology. The management of NMS should include: 1) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring and 2) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. Dopamine agonists, such as bromocriptine, and muscle relaxants, such as dantrolene, are often used in the treatment of NMS; however, their effectiveness has not been demonstrated in controlled studies. WARNINGS When carbidopa and levodopa tablets are to be given to patients who are being treated with levodopa, levodopa must be discontinued at least twelve hours before therapy with carbidopa and levodopa is started. The addition of carbidopa with levodopa in the form of carbidopa and levodopa tablets reduces the peripheral effects (nausea, vomiting) due to decarboxylation of levodopa; however, carbidopa does not decrease the adverse reactions due to the central effects of levodopa. Because carbidopa permits more levodopa to reach the brain and more dopamine to be formed, certain adverse central nervous system (CNS) effects, e.g., dyskinesias (involuntary movements), may occur at lower dosages and sooner with carbidopa and levodopa tablets than with levodopa alone. Carbidopa and levodopa should be administered cautiously to patients with severe cardiovascular or pulmonary disease, bronchial asthma, renal, hepatic or endocrine disease. As with levodopa, care should be exercised in administering carbidopa and levodopa tablets to patients with a history of myocardial infarction who have residual atrial, nodal, or ventricular arrhythmias. As with levodopa, treatment with carbidopa and levodopa tablets may increase the possibility of upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage in patients with a history of peptic ulcer. Falling Asleep During Activities of Daily Living and Somnolence Patients taking carbidopa and levodopa tablets alone or with other dopaminergic drugs have reported suddenly falling asleep without prior warning of sleepiness while engaged in activities of daily living (includes operation of motor vehicles). Patients should be advised to exercise caution while driving or operating machines during treatment with carbidopa and levodopa tablets. Patients who have already experienced somnolence or an episode of sudden sleep onset should not participate in these activities during treatment with carbidopa and levodopa tablets. Before initiating treatment with carbidopa and levodopa tablets, advise patients about the potential to develop drowsiness and ask specifically about factors that may increase the risk for somnolence with carbidopa and levodopa tablets such as the use of concomitant sedating medications and the presence of sleep disorders. Consider discontinuing carbidopa and levodopa tablets in patients who report significant daytime sleepiness or episodes of falling asleep during activities that require active participation (e.g., conversations, eating, etc.). If treatment with carbidopa and levodopa tablets continues, patients should be advised not to drive and to avoid other potentially dangerous activities that might result in harm if the patients become somnolent. Hyperpyrexia and Confusion Sporadic cases of a symptom complex resembling neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) have been reported in association with dose reductions or withdrawal of certain antiparkinsonian agents such as levodopa, carbidopa and levodopa, or carbidopa and levodopa extended-release. Neurological findings, including muscle rigidity, involuntary movements, altered consciousness, mental status changes; other disturbances, such as autonomic dysfunction, tachycardia, tachypnea, sweating, hyper-or hypotension; laboratory findings, such as creatine phosphokinase elevation, leukocytosis, myoglobinuria, and increased serum myoglobin have been reported. WARNINGS When patients are receiving levodopa without a decarboxylase inhibitor, levodopa must be discontinued at least twelve hours before carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets are started. Carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets should be substituted at a dosage that will provide approximately 25% of the previous levodopa dosage (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). By permitting more levodopa to reach the brain, particularly when nausea and vomiting is not a dose-limiting factor, certain adverse central nervous system (CNS) effects, e.g., dyskinesias, will occur at lower dosages and sooner during therapy with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets than with levodopa alone. Patients receiving carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets may develop increased dyskinesias compared to carbidopa and levodopa tablets. Dyskinesias are a common side effect of carbidopa and levodopa treatment. Carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets should be administered cautiously to patients with severe cardiovascular or pulmonary disease, bronchial asthma, renal, hepatic or endocrine disease. As with levodopa, care should be exercised in administering carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets to patients with a history of myocardial infarction who have residual atrial, nodal, or ventricular arrhythmias. As with levodopa, treatment with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets may increase the possibility of upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage in patients with a history of peptic ulcer. Falling Asleep During Activities of Daily Living and Somnolence Patients taking carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets alone or with other dopaminergic drugs have reported suddenly falling asleep without prior warning of sleepiness while engaged in activities of daily living (includes operation of motor vehicles). Patients should be advised to exercise caution while driving or operating machines during treatment with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets. Patients who have already experienced somnolence or an episode of sudden sleep onset should not participate in these activities during treatment with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets. Before initiating treatment with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets, advise patients about the potential to develop drowsiness and ask specifically about factors that may increase the risk for somnolence with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets such as the use of concomitant sedating medications and the presence of sleep disorders. Consider discontinuing carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets in patients who report significant daytime sleepiness or episodes of falling asleep during activities that require active participation (e.g., conversations, eating, etc.). If treatment with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets continues, patients should be advised not to drive and to avoid other potentially dangerous activities that might result in harm if the patients become somnolent. Hyperpyrexia and Confusion Sporadic cases of a symptom complex resembling neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) have been reported in association with dose reductions or withdrawal of certain antiparkinsonian agents such as levodopa, carbidopa and levodopa, and carbidopa and levodopa extended-release. WARNINGS When carbidopa and levodopa tablets are to be given to patients who are being treated with levodopa, levodopa must be discontinued at least twelve hours before therapy with carbidopa and levodopa tablets are started. Because carbidopa permits more levodopa to reach the brain and more dopamine to be formed, certain adverse central nervous system (CNS) effects, e.g., dyskinesias (involuntary movements), may occur at lower dosages and sooner with carbidopa and levodopa than with levodopa alone. Carbidopa and levodopa tablets should be administered cautiously to patients with severe cardiovascular or pulmonary disease, bronchial asthma, renal, hepatic or endocrine disease. Falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living usually occurs in patients experiencing pre-existing somnolence, although some patients may not give such a history. Hyperpyrexia and Confusion Sporadic cases of a symptom complex resembling neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) have been reported in association with dose reductions or withdrawal of certain antiparkinsonian agents such as levodopa, carbidopa and levodopa, or carbidopa and levodopa extended release. Hyperpyrexia and Confusion Sporadic cases of a symptom complex resembling neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) have been reported in association with dose reductions or withdrawal of certain antiparkinsonian agents such as levodopa, carbidopa and levodopa and carbidopa and levodopa extended-release. Therefore, patients should be observed carefully when the dosage of carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablet is reduced abruptly or discontinued, especially if the patient is receiving neuroleptics. WARNINGS When carbidopa and levodopa tablets are to be given to patients who are being treated with levodopa, levodopa must be discontinued at least twelve hours before therapy with the combination product is started. The addition of carbidopa with levodopa in the form of this combination product reduces the peripheral effects (nausea, vomiting) due to decarboxylation of levodopa; however, carbidopa does not decrease the adverse reactions due to the central effects of levodopa. As with levodopa, care should be exercised in administering the combination product, to patients with a history of myocardial infarction who have residual atrial, nodal, or ventricular arrhythmias. As with levodopa, treatment with the combination product may increase the possibility of upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage in patients with a history of peptic ulcer. Falling Asleep During Activities of Daily Living and Somnolence Patients taking carbidopa and levodopa alone or with other dopaminergic drugs have reported suddenly falling asleep without prior warning of sleepiness while engaged in activities of daily living (includes operation of motor vehicles). Patients should be advised to exercise caution while driving or operating machines during treatment with carbidopa and levodopa. Patients who have already experienced somnolence or an episode of sudden sleep onset should not participate in these activities during treatment with carbidopa and levodopa. Before initiating treatment with carbidopa and levodopa, advise patients about the potential to develop drowsiness and ask specifically about factors that may increase the risk for somnolence with carbidopa and levodopa such as the use of concomitant sedating medications and the presence of sleep disorders. Consider discontinuing carbidopa and levodopa in patients who report significant daytime sleepiness or episodes of falling asleep during activities that require active participation (e.g., conversations, eating, etc.). If treatment with carbidopa and levodopa continues, patients should be advised not to drive and to avoid other potentially dangerous activities that might result in harm if the patients become somnolent. WARNINGS When carbidopa and levodopa tablets are to be given to patients who are being treated with levodopa, levodopa must be discontinued at least twelve hours before therapy with carbidopa and levodopa tablets is started. As with levodopa, care should be exercised in administering carbidopa and levodopa tablets, to patients with a history of myocardial infarction who have residual atrial, nodal, or ventricular arrhythmias.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Nonselective monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors are contraindicated for use with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets. These inhibitors must be discontinued at least two weeks prior to initiating therapy with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release. Carbidopa and levodopa extended-release may be administered concomitantly with the manufacturer’s recommended dose of an MAO inhibitor with selectivity for MAO type B (e.g., selegiline HCl) (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Carbidopa and levodopa extended-release is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any component of this drug and in patients with narrow-angle glaucoma. CONTRAINDICATIONS Nonselective monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors are contraindicated for use with carbidopa and levodopa tablets. These inhibitors must be discontinued at least two weeks prior to initiating therapy with carbidopa and levodopa tablets. Carbidopa and levodopa tablets may be administered concomitantly with the manufacturer's recommended dose of an MAO inhibitor with selectivity for MAO type B (e.g., selegiline HCl) (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Carbidopa and levodopa tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any component of this drug, and in patients with narrow-angle glaucoma. These inhibitors must be discontinued at least two weeks prior to initiating therapy with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets. Carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets may be administered concomitantly with the manufacturer's recommended dose of an MAO inhibitor with selectivity for MAO type B (e.g., selegiline HCl) (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any component of this drug, and in patients with narrow-angle glaucoma. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS CREXONT is contraindicated in patients currently taking a nonselective monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor or have recently (within 2 weeks) taken a nonselective MAO inhibitor. Hypertension can occur if these drugs are used concurrently [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Nonselective MAO inhibitors (4) Carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets may be administered concomitantly with the manufacturer’s recommended dose of an MAO inhibitor with selectivity for MAO type B (e.g., selegiline hydrochloride) (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Nonselective monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors are contraindicated for use with carbidopa and levodopa. These inhibitors must be discontinued at least two weeks prior to initiating therapy with this combination product. Carbidopa and levodopa may be administered concomitantly with the manufacturer's recommended dose of an MAO inhibitor with selectivity for MAO type B (e.g., selegiline HCl) (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Carbidopa and levodopa is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any component of this drug, and in patients with narrow-angle glaucoma.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Caution should be exercised when the following drugs are administered concomitantly with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release. Symptomatic postural hypotension has occurred when carbidopa-levodopa preparations were added to the treatment of patients receiving some antihypertensive drugs. Therefore, when therapy with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release is started, dosage adjustment of the antihypertensive drug may be required. For patients receiving MAO inhibitors (Type A or B), see CONTRAINDICATIONS . Concomitant therapy with selegiline and carbidopa-levodopa may be associated with severe orthostatic hypotension not attributable to carbidopa-levodopa alone (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). There have been rare reports of adverse reactions, including hypertension and dyskinesia, resulting from the concomitant use of tricyclic antidepressants and carbidopa-levodopa preparations. Dopamine D 2 receptor antagonists (e.g., phenothiazines, butyrophenones, risperidone) and isoniazid may reduce the therapeutic effects of levodopa. In addition, the beneficial effects of levodopa in Parkinson’s disease have been reported to be reversed by phenytoin and papaverine. Patients taking these drugs with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release should be carefully observed for loss of therapeutic response. Use of carbidopa and levodopa extended-release with dopamine-depleting agents (e.g., reserpine and tetrabenazine) or other drugs known to deplete monoamine stores is not recommended. Carbidopa and levodopa extended-release and iron salts or multivitamins containing iron salts should be coadministered with caution. Iron salts can form chelates with levodopa and carbidopa and consequently reduce the bioavailability of carbidopa and levodopa. Although metoclopramide may increase the bioavailability of levodopa by increasing gastric emptying, metoclopramide may also adversely affect disease control by its dopamine receptor antagonistic properties. Drug Interactions Caution should be exercised when the following drugs are administered concomitantly with carbidopa and levodopa tablets. Symptomatic postural hypotension occurred when carbidopa and levodopa tablets was added to the treatment of a patient receiving antihypertensive drugs. Therefore, when therapy with carbidopa and levodopa tablets is started, dosage adjustment of the antihypertensive drug may be required. Concomitant therapy with selegiline and carbidopa and levodopa may be associated with severe orthostatic hypotension not attributable to carbidopa and levodopa alone (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). There have been rare reports of adverse reactions, including hypertension and dyskinesia, resulting from the concomitant use of tricyclic antidepressants and carbidopa and levodopa tablets. In addition, the beneficial effects of levodopa in Parkinson's disease have been reported to be reversed by phenytoin and papaverine. Patients taking these drugs with carbidopa and levodopa tablets should be carefully observed for loss of therapeutic response. Use of carbidopa and levodopa tablets with dopamine-depleting agents (e.g., reserpine and tetrabenazine) or other drugs known to deplete monoamine stores is not recommended. Carbidopa and levodopa tablets and iron salts or multivitamins containing iron salts should be coadministered with caution. Drug Interactions Caution should be exercised when the following drugs are administered concomitantly with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets. Symptomatic postural hypotension occurred when carbidopa and levodopa preparations were added to the treatment of patients receiving some antihypertensive drugs. Therefore, when therapy with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablet is started, dosage adjustment of the antihypertensive drug may be required. There have been rare reports of adverse reactions, including hypertension and dyskinesia, resulting from the concomitant use of tricyclic antidepressants and carbidopa and levodopa preparations. Patients taking these drugs with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets should be carefully observed for loss of therapeutic response. Use of carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets with dopamine-depleting agents (e.g., reserpine and tetrabenazine) or other drugs known to deplete monoamine stores is not recommended. Carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets and iron salts or multivitamins containing iron salts should be coadministered with caution. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Iron salts and dopamine D2 antagonists, including metoclopramide, may reduce the effectiveness of CREXONT. ( 7.2 , 7.3 ) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase (MAO) Inhibitors Nonselective MAO Inhibitors The use of nonselective MAO inhibitors (e.g., phenelzine and tranylcypromine) with CREXONT is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . Discontinue use of any nonselective MAO inhibitors at least two weeks prior to initiating CREXONT. Selective MAO Inhibitors The use of selective MAO-B inhibitors (e.g., rasagiline and selegiline) with CREXONT may be associated with orthostatic hypotension. Monitor patients who are taking these drugs concurrently. 7.2 Dopamine D2 Receptor Antagonists and Isoniazid Dopamine D2 receptor antagonists (e.g., phenothiazines, butyrophenones, risperidone, metoclopramide) and isoniazid may reduce the effectiveness of levodopa. Monitor patients for worsening Parkinson’s symptoms. 7.3 Iron Salts Iron salts or multivitamins containing iron salts can form chelates with levodopa and carbidopa and can cause a reduction in the bioavailability of CREXONT. If iron salts or multivitamins containing iron salts are co-administered with CREXONT, monitor patients for worsening Parkinson’s symptoms. Symptomatic postural hypotension has occurred when carbidopa and levodopa preparations were added to the treatment of patients receiving some antihypertensive drugs. Therefore, when therapy with carbidopa and levodopa extended-release tablets is started, dosage adjustment of the antihypertensive drug may be required.

=== MEMANTINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Memantine hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer’s type. Memantine hydrochloride tablets are an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer’s type. (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Memantine hydrochloride is an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer's type. ( 1 ) Memantine hydrochloride tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer's type. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer's type. Memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is a N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer's type. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Memantine hydrochloride tablets are an N-methyl-D-asparate (NMDA) receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer's type. ( 1 ) Memantine hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer's type. Memantine hydrochloride USP is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer’s type. ( 1 ) Memantine hydrochloride is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer's type. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Memantine and donepezil hydrochlorides extended-release capsules are indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer’s type in patients stabilized on 10 mg of donepezil hydrochloride once daily. Memantine and donepezil hydrochlorides extended-release capsules are a combination of memantine hydrochloride, an NMDA receptor antagonist, and donepezil hydrochloride, an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer’s type in patients stabilized on 10 mg of donepezil hydrochloride once daily. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are a N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer's type. ( 1 ) Memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer's type. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Memantine hydrochloride USP is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer’s type. Memantine hydrochloride USP is an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer’s type. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Memantine hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer's type. Memantine hydrochloride is an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer's type.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended starting dose of memantine hydrochloride tablets is 5 mg once daily. The dose should be increased in 5 mg increments to 10 mg/day (5 mg twice daily), 15 mg/day (5 mg and 10 mg as separate doses), and 20 mg/day (10 mg twice daily). The minimum recommended interval between dose increases is one week. The dosage shown to be effective in controlled clinical trials is 20 mg/day. Memantine hydrochloride tablets can be taken with or without food. If a patient misses a single dose of memantine hydrochloride tablets, that patient should not double up on the next dose. The next dose should be taken as scheduled. If a patient fails to take memantine hydrochloride tablets for several days, dosing may need to be resumed at lower doses and retitrated as described above. Specific Populations Renal Impairment A target dose of 5 mg twice daily is recommended in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance of 5 to 29 mL/min based on the Cockcroft-Gault equation). Hepatic Impairment Memantine hydrochloride tablets should be administered with caution to patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . May be taken with or without food. (2) Initial dose is 5 mg once daily. Increase dose in 5 mg increments to a maintenance dose of 10 mg twice daily. A minimum of 1 week of treatment with the previous dose should be observed before increasing the dose. (2) Severe renal impairment: recommended dose is 5 mg twice daily. (2) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION May be taken with or without food ( 2 ) Initial dose is 5 mg once daily. ( 2 ) Severe renal impairment: recommended dose is 5 mg twice daily. ( 2 ) The recommended starting dose of memantine hydrochloride is 5 mg once daily. If a patient fails to take memantine hydrochloridetablets for several days, dosing may need to be resumed at lower doses and retitrated as described above. Hepatic Impairment Memantine hydrochloride tablets should be administered with caution to patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended starting dose of memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is 7 mg once daily; the dose should be increased in 7 mg increments to the recommended maintenance dose of 28 mg once daily; the minimum recommended interval between dose increases is one week. ( 2.1 ) Patients with severe renal impairment: the recommended maintenance dose of memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is 14 mg once daily. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosing The dosage of memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules shown to be effective in a controlled clinical trial is 28 mg once daily. The recommended starting dose of memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is 7 mg once daily. The dose should be increased in 7 mg increments to the recommended maintenance dose of 28 mg once daily. The dose should only be increased if the previous dose has been well tolerated. The maximum recommended dose is 28 mg once daily. Memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules can be taken with or without food. Memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules can be taken intact or may be opened, sprinkled on applesauce, and thereby swallowed. The entire contents of each memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsule should be consumed; the dose should not be divided. Except when opened and sprinkled on applesauce, as described above, memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules should be swallowed whole. Memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules should not be divided, chewed, or crushed. If a patient misses a single dose of memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules, that patient should not double up on the next dose. If a patient fails to take memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules for several days, dosing may need to be resumed at lower doses and retitrated as described above. 2.2 Switching from NAMENDA to Memantine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Patients treated with NAMENDA may be switched to memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules as follows: It is recommended that a patient who is on a regimen of 10 mg twice daily of NAMENDA be switched to memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules 28 mg once daily capsules the day following the last dose of 10 mg NAMENDA. There is no study addressing the comparative efficacy of these 2 regimens. In a patient with severe renal impairment, it is recommended that a patient who is on a regimen of 5 mg twice daily of NAMENDA be switched to memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules 14 mg once daily capsules the day following the last dose of 5 mg NAMENDA. 2.3 Dosing in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance of 5 – 29 mL/min, based on the Cockcroft-Gault equation), the recommended maintenance dose (and maximum recommended dose) is 14 mg/day [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . ( 2 ) The recommended starting dose of memantine hydrochloride tablet is 5 mg once daily. Special Populations Renal Impairment A target dose of 5 mg twice daily is recommended in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance of 5 – 29 mL/min based on the Cockroft-Gault equation). The recommended starting dose of memantine hydrochloride USP is 5 mg once daily. Memantine hydrochloride can be taken with or without food. If a patient misses a single dose of memantine hydrochloride, that patient should not double up on the next dose. If a patient fails to take memantine hydrochloride for several days, dosing may need to be resumed at lower doses and retitrated as described above. Specific Populations Renal Impairment A target dose of 5 mg twice daily is recommended in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance of 5 – 29 mL/min based on the Cockcroft-Gault equation). Hepatic Impairment Memantine hydrochloride should be administered with caution to patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION May be taken with or without food. ( 2 ) Initial dose is 5 mg once daily. If a patient fails to take memantine hydrochloride tablet for several days, dosing may need to be resumed at lower doses and retitrated as described above. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For patients on donepezil hydrochloride 10 mg only, the recommended starting dose of memantine and donepezil hydrochlorides extended-release capsules is 7 mg/10 mg, taken once daily in the evening. The dose should be increased in 7 mg increments to the recommended maintenance dose of 28 mg/10 mg. (2.1) Patients on memantine hydrochloride (10 mg twice daily or 28 mg extended-release once daily) and donepezil hydrochloride 10 mg once daily can be switched to memantine and donepezil hydrochlorides extended-release capsules 28 mg/10 mg, taken once daily in the evening. (2.1) Memantine and donepezil hydrochlorides extended-release capsules can be taken with or without food, whole or sprinkled on applesauce; do not divide, chew, or crush. (2.2) Severe renal impairment: the recommended maintenance dose for memantine and donepezil hydrochlorides extended-release capsules is 14 mg/10 mg once daily in the evening. (2.3) 2.1 Recommended Dosing The recommended dose of memantine and donepezil hydrochlorides extended-release capsules is 28 mg/10 mg once daily. For patients stabilized on donepezil and not currently on memantine: For patients stabilized on donepezil hydrochloride 10 mg and not currently on memantine hydrochloride, the recommended starting dose of memantine and donepezil hydrochlorides extended-release capsules is 7 mg/10 mg, taken once a day in the evening. The dose should be increased in 7 mg increments of the memantine hydrochloride component to the recommended maintenance dose of 28 mg/10 mg once daily. The maximum dose is 28 mg/10 mg once daily. For patients stabilized on both donepezil and memantine: Patients stabilized on memantine hydrochloride (10 mg twice daily or 28 mg extended-release once daily) and donepezil hydrochloride 10 mg once daily can be switched to memantine and donepezil hydrochlorides extended-release capsules 28 mg/10 mg, taken once a day in the evening. Patients should start memantine and donepezil hydrochlorides extended-release capsules the day following the last dose of memantine and donepezil hydrochlorides extended-release administered separately. If a patient misses a single dose of memantine and donepezil hydrochlorides extended-release capsules, the next dose should be taken as scheduled, without doubling up the dose. 2.2 Administration Information Memantine and donepezil hydrochlorides extended-release capsules can be taken with or without food. Memantine and donepezil hydrochlorides extended-release capsules can be taken intact or may be opened, sprinkled on applesauce, and swallowed without chewing. The entire contents of each memantine and donepezil hydrochlorides extended-release capsule should be consumed; the dose should not be divided. Except when opened and sprinkled on applesauce, as described above, memantine and donepezil hydrochlorides extended-release capsules should be swallowed whole. Memantine and donepezil hydrochlorides extended-release capsules should not be divided, chewed, or crushed. 2.3 Dosing in Patients with Severe Renal Impairment For patients stabilized on donepezil and not currently on memantine: For patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance 5 to 29 mL/min, based on the Cockcroft-Gault equation), stabilized on donepezil hydrochloride 10 mg once daily and not currently on memantine hydrochloride, the recommended starting dose of memantine and donepezil hydrochlorides extended-release capsules is 7 mg/10 mg taken once a day in the evening. The dose should be increased to the recommended maintenance dose of 14 mg/10 mg once daily in the evening after a minimum of one week [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . For patients stabilized on both donepezil and memantine: Patients with severe renal impairment, stabilized on memantine hydrochloride (5 mg twice daily or 14 mg extended-release once daily) and donepezil hydrochloride 10 mg once daily, can be switched to memantine and donepezil hydrochlorides extended-release capsules 14 mg/10 mg, taken once daily in the evening. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosing The dosage of memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsule shown to be effective in a controlled clinical trial is 28 mg once daily. The recommended starting dose of memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsule is 7 mg once daily. 2.2 Switching from Memantine hydrochloride Tablets to Memantine hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Patients treated with memantine hydrochloride tablets may be switched to memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules as follows: It is recommended that a patient who is on a regimen of 10 mg twice daily of memantine hydrochloride tablets be switched to memantine hydrochloride extended-release 28 mg once daily capsules the day following the last dose of 10 mg memantine hydrochloride tablets. In a patient with severe renal impairment, it is recommended that a patient who is on a regimen of 5 mg twice daily of memantine hydrochloride tablets be switched to memantine hydrochloride extended-release 14 mg once daily capsules the day following the last dose of 5 mg memantine hydrochloride tablets. 2.3 Dosing in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance of 5 to 29 mL/min, based on the Cockcroft-Gault equation), the recommended maintenance dose (and maximum recommended dose) is 14 mg/day [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended starting dose of memantine hydrochloride USP is 5 mg once daily. Hepatic Impairment Memantine hydrochloride should be administered with caution to patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . May be taken with or without food ( 2 ) Initial dose is 5 mg once daily. ( 2 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended starting dose of memantine hydrochloride tablets are 5 mg once daily. Specific Populations Renal Impairment A target dose of 5 mg twice daily is recommended in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance of 5 to 29 mL/min based on the Cockroft-Gault equation). Hepatic Impairment Memantine hydrochloride tablets should be administered with caution to patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )].
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Memantine hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to memantine hydrochloride or to any excipients used in the formulation. Memantine hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to memantine hydrochloride or to any excipients used in the formulation. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Memantine hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to memantine hydrochloride or to any excipients used in the formulation. ( 4 ) Memantine hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to memantine hydrochloride or to any excipients used in the formulation. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to memantine hydrochloride or to any excipients used in the formulation . Memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to memantine hydrochloride or to any excipients used in the formulation. ( 4 ) Memantine hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to memantine hydrochloride or to any excipients used in the formulation. ( 4 ) Memantine hydrochloride tablet is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to memantine hydrochloride or to any excipients used in the formulation. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Memantine and donepezil hydrochlorides extended-release capsules are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to memantine hydrochloride, donepezil hydrochloride, piperidine derivatives, or to any excipients used in the formulation. Memantine and donepezil hydrochlorides extended-release capsules are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to memantine hydrochloride, donepezil hydrochloride, piperidine derivatives, or to any excipients used in the formulation. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Memantine hydrochloride extended-release is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to memantine hydrochloride or to any excipients used in the formulation. ( 4 ) Memantine hydrochloride extended-release is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to memantine hydrochloride or to any excipients used in the formulation.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Drugs that Make the Urine Alkaline The clearance of memantine was reduced by about 80% under alkaline urine conditions at pH 8. Therefore, alterations of urine pH towards the alkaline condition may lead to an accumulation of the drug with a possible increase in adverse effects. Urine pH is altered by diet, drugs (e.g. carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, sodium bicarbonate) and clinical state of the patient (e.g. renal tubular acidosis or severe infections of the urinary tract). Hence, memantine should be used with caution under these conditions. 7.2 Use with Other N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) Antagonists The combined use of memantine hydrochloride with other NMDA antagonists (amantadine, ketamine, and dextromethorphan) has not been systematically evaluated and such use should be approached with caution. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Drugs That Make Urine Alkaline The clearance of memantine was reduced by about 80% under alkaline urine conditions at pH 8. 7. 2 Use with O th er N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) A ntagonists The combined use of memantine hydrochloride extended-release capsules with other NMDA antagonists (amantadine, ketamine, and dextromethorphan) has not been systematically evaluated and such use should be approached with caution. 7.1 Drugs that Make the Urine Alkaline The clearance of memantine was reduced by about 80% under alkaline urine conditions at pH 8. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Combined use with NMDA antagonists: use with caution. (7.2) Memantine and donepezil hydrochlorides extended-release may interfere with anticholinergic medications. (7.4) Concomitant administration of succinylcholine, similar neuromuscular blocking agents, or cholinergic agonists may lead to synergistic effect. (7.5) 7.1 Use of Memantine with Drugs That Make the Urine Alkaline The clearance of memantine was reduced by about 80% under alkaline urine conditions at pH 8. Therefore, alterations of urine pH towards the alkaline condition may lead to an accumulation of the drug with a possible increase in adverse reactions. Urine pH is altered by diet, drugs (e.g., carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, sodium bicarbonate) and clinical state of the patient (e.g., renal tubular acidosis or severe infections of the urinary tract). 7.2 Use of Memantine with Other N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) Antagonists The combined use of memantine hydrochloride with other NMDA antagonists (amantadine, ketamine, and dextromethorphan) has not been systematically evaluated and such use should be approached with caution. 7.3 Effect of Other Drugs on the Metabolism of Donepezil Inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole) and CYP2D6 (e.g., quinidine), inhibit donepezil metabolism in vitro . Whether there is a clinical effect of quinidine is not known. Inducers of CYP3A4 (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, dexamethasone, rifampin, and phenobarbital) could increase the rate of elimination of donepezil. 7.4 Use of Donepezil with Anticholinergics Because of their mechanism of action, cholinesterase inhibitors, including donepezil hydrochloride, have the potential to interfere with the activity of anticholinergic medications. 7.5 Use of Donepezil with Cholinomimetics and Other Cholinesterase Inhibitors A synergistic effect may be expected when cholinesterase inhibitors, including donepezil hydrochloride, are given concurrently with succinylcholine, similar neuromuscular blocking agents, or cholinergic agonists such as bethanechol. 7.2 Use with Other N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) Antagonists The combined use of memantine hydrochloride extended-release with other NMDA antagonists (amantadine, ketamine, and dextromethorphan) has not been systematically evaluated and such use should be approached with caution.

=== TRIAMTERENE AND HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE: This fixed combination drug is not indicated for the initial therapy of edema or hypertension except in individuals in whom the development of hypokalemia cannot be risked. Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide is indicated for the treatment of hypertension or edema in patients who develop hypokalemia on hydrochlorothiazide alone. Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide is also indicated for those patients who require a thiazide diuretic and in whom the development of hypokalemia cannot be risked (e.g., patients on concomitant digitalis preparations, or with a history of cardiac arrhythmias, etc.). Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive drugs, such as beta-blockers. Since triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide may enhance the actions of these drugs, dosage adjustments may be necessary. Usage in Pregnancy: The routine use of diuretics in an otherwise healthy woman is inappropriate and exposes mother and fetus to unnecessary hazard. Diuretics do not prevent development of toxemia of pregnancy, and there is no satisfactory evidence that they are useful in the treatment of developed toxemia. Edema during pregnancy may arise from pathological causes or from the physiologic and mechanical consequences of pregnancy. Thiazides are indicated in pregnancy when edema is due to pathologic causes, just as they are in the absence of pregnancy. Dependent edema in pregnancy, resulting from restriction of venous return by the expanded uterus, is properly treated through elevation of the lower extremities and use of support hose; use of diuretics to lower intravascular volume in this case is illogical and unnecessary. There is hypervolemia during normal pregnancy which is harmful to neither the fetus nor the mother (in the absence of cardiovascular disease), but which is associated with edema, including generalized edema, in the majority of pregnant women. If this edema produces discomfort, increased recumbency will often provide relief. In rare instances, this edema may cause extreme discomfort which is not relieved by rest. In these cases, a short course of diuretics may provide relief and may be appropriate. INDICATIONS AND USAGE This fixed combination drug is not indicated for the initial therapy of edema or hypertension except in individuals in whom the development of hypokalemia cannot be risked. Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules are indicated for the treatment of hypertension or edema in patients who develop hypokalemia on hydrochlorothiazide alone. Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules are also indicated for those patients who require a thiazide diuretic and in whom the development of hypokalemia cannot be risked. Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules may be used alone or as an adjunct to other antihypertensive drugs, such as beta-blockers. Since triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules may enhance the action of these agents, dosage adjustments may be necessary. Usage in Pregnancy The routine use of diuretics in an otherwise healthy woman is inappropriate and exposes mother and fetus to unnecessary hazard. Diuretics are indicated in pregnancy when edema is due to pathologic causes, just as they are in the absence of pregnancy. Dependent edema in pregnancy resulting from restriction of venous return by the expanded uterus is properly treated through elevation of the lower extremities and use of support hose; use of diuretics to lower intravascular volume in this case is illogical and unnecessary. There is hypervolemia during normal pregnancy which is harmful to neither the fetus nor the mother (in the absence of cardiovascular disease), but which is associated with edema, including generalized edema in the majority of pregnant women. In rare instances this edema may cause extreme discomfort which is not relieved by rest. Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension or edema in patients who develop hypokalemia on hydrochlorothiazide alone. Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are also indicated for those patients who require a thiazide diuretic and in whom the development of hypokalemia cannot be risked (e.g., patients on concomitant digitalis preparations, or with a history of cardiac arrhythmias, etc.). Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive drugs, such as beta-blockers. Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules, USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension or edema in patients who develop hypokalemia on hydrochlorothiazide alone. Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules, USP are also indicated for those patients who require a thiazide diuretic and in whom the development of hypokalemia cannot be risked. Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules, USP may be used alone or as an adjunct to other antihypertensive drugs, such as beta-blockers. Since triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules, USP may enhance the action of these agents, dosage adjustments may be necessary. In these cases a short course of diuretics may provide relief and may be appropriate. Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide is also indicated for those patients who require a thiazide diuretic and in whom the development of hypokalemia cannot be risked (e.g., patients on concomitant digitalis preparations, or with a history of cardiac arryhthmias, etc.). Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension or edema in patients who develop hypokalemia on hydrochlorothiazide alone. Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP are also indicated for those patients who require a thiazide diuretic and in whom the development of hypokalemia cannot be risked (e.g., patients on concomitant digitalis preparations, or with a history of cardiac arrhythmias, etc.). Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive drugs, such as beta-blockers. Since triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP may enhance the actions of these drugs, dosage adjustments may be necessary.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: The usual dose of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 37.5mg/25mg is one or two tablets daily, given as a single dose, with appropriate monitoring of serum potassium (see WARNINGS ). The usual dose of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 75mg/ 50 mg is one tablet daily, with appropriate monitoring of serum potassium (see WARNINGS ). There is no experience with the use of more than one triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 75mg/50mg daily or more than two triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 37.5mg/25mg daily. Clinical experience with the administration of two triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 37.5mg/25mg daily in divided doses (rather than as a single dose) suggests an increased risk of electrolyte imbalance and renal dysfunction. Patients receiving 50 mg of hydrochlorothiazide who become hypokalemic may be transferred to triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 75mg/50mg directly. Patients receiving 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide who become hypokalemic may be transferred to triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 37.5mg/25mg directly. In patients requiring hydrochlorothiazide therapy and in whom hypokalemia cannot be risked therapy may be initiated with triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 37.5mg/25mg. If an optimal blood pressure response is not obtained with triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 37.5mg/25mg, the dose should be increased to two triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 37.5mg/25mg daily as a single dose, or one triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 75mg/25mg daily. If blood pressure still is not controlled, another antihypertensive agent may be added (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Clinical studies have shown that patients taking less bioavailable formulations of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide in daily doses of 25 mg to 50 mg hydrochlorothiazide and 50 mg to 100 mg triamterene may be safely changed to one triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 37.5mg/25mg daily. All patients changed from less bioavailable formulations to triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 75mg/50mg should be monitored clinically and for serum potassium after the transfer. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual dose of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules is 1 or 2 capsules given once daily , with appropriate monitoring of serum potassium and of the clinical effect ( see WARNINGS, Hyperkalemia ). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Note: 37.5 mg/25 mg=37.5 mg triamterene and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide 75 mg/50 mg=75 mg triamterene and 50 mg hydrochlorothiazide The usual dose of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide 37.5 mg/25 mg, is one or two tablets daily, given as a single dose, with appropriate monitoring of serum potassium (see WARNINGS ). The usual dose of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide 75 mg/50 mg, is one tablet daily, with appropriate monitoring of serum potassium (see WARNINGS ). There is no experience with the use of more than one 75 mg/50 mg tablet, daily or more than two 37.5 mg/25 mg tablets, daily. Clinical experience with the administration of two 37.5 mg/25 mg tablets, daily in divided doses (rather than as a single dose) suggests an increased risk of electrolyte imbalance and renal dysfunction. Patients receiving 50 mg of hydrochlorothiazide who become hypokalemic may be transferred to the 75 mg/50 mg product, directly. Patients receiving 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide who become hypokalemic may be transferred to the 37.5 mg/25 mg product, directly. In patients requiring hydrochlorothiazide therapy and in whom hypokalemia cannot be risked, therapy may be initiated with 37.5 mg/25 mg of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide. If an optimal blood pressure response is not obtained with 37.5 mg/25 mg of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide, the dose should be increased to two 37.5 mg/25 mg tablets daily as a single dose, or one 75 mg/50 mg tablet daily. Clinical studies have shown that patients taking less bioavailable formulations of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide in daily doses of 25 mg to 50 mg of hydrochlorothiazide and 50 mg to 100 mg of triamterene may be safely changed to one triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide 37.5 mg/25 mg tablet daily. All patients changed from less bioavailable formulations to triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be monitored clinically and for serum potassium after the transfer. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Note: 37.5 mg/25 mg = 37.5 mg triamterene and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide 75 mg/50 mg = 75 mg triamterene and 50 mg hydrochlorothiazide The usual dose of Triamterene and Hydrochlorothiazide 37.5 mg/25 mg is one or two tablets daily, given as a single dose, with appropriate monitoring of serum potassium (see WARNINGS ). The usual dose of Triamterene and Hydrochlorothiazide 75 mg/50 mg is one tablet daily, with appropriate monitoring of serum potassium (see WARNINGS ). There is no experience with the use of more than one 75 mg/50 mg tablet daily or more than two 37.5 mg/25 mg tablets daily. Clinical experience with the administration of two 37.5 mg/25 mg tablets daily in divided doses (rather than as a single dose) suggests an increased risk of electrolyte imbalance and renal dysfunction. Patients receiving 50 mg of hydrochlorothiazide who become hypokalemic may be transferred to 75 mg/50 mg product directly. Patients receiving 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide who become hypokalemic may be transferred to a 37.5 mg triamterene/25 mg hydrochlorothiazide directly. If blood pressure still is not controlled, another antihypertensive agent may be added (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Clinical studies have shown that patients taking less bioavailable formulations of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide in daily doses of 25 mg to 50 mg hydrochlorothiazide and 50 mg to 100 mg triamterene may be safely changed to one 37.5 mg/25 mg of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide daily. All patients changed from less bioavailable formulations to triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide should be monitored clinically and for serum potassium after the transfer. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual dose of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules, USP is one or two capsules given once daily, with appropriate monitoring of serum potassium and of the clinical effect (see WARNINGS, Hyperkalemia ). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual dose of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, 37.5 mg/25 mg is one or two tablets daily, given as a single dose, with appropriate monitoring of serum potassium ( see WARNINGS ). The usual dose of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, 75 mg/50 mg is one tablet daily, with appropriate monitoring of serum potassium ( see WARNINGS ). There is no experience with the use of more than one 75 mg/50 mg (75 mg triamterene and 50 mg hydrochlorothiazide) tablet daily or more than two 37.5 mg/25 mg (37.5 mg triamterene and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide) tablets daily. Clinical experience with the administration of two 37.5 mg/25 mg (37.5 mg triamterene and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide) tablets daily in divided doses (rather than as a single dose) suggests an increased risk of electrolyte imbalance and renal dysfunction. Patients receiving 50 mg of hydrochlorothiazide who become hypokalemic may be transferred to triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, 75 mg/50 mg directly. Patients receiving 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide who become hypokalemic may be transferred to triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, 37.5 mg/25 mg directly. In patients requiring hydrochlorothiazide therapy and in whom hypokalemia cannot be risked therapy may be initiated with triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, 37.5 mg/25 mg. If an optimal blood pressure response is not obtained with triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, 37.5 mg/25 mg, the dose should be increased to two 37.5 mg/25 mg (37.5 mg triamterene and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide) tablets daily as a single dose, or one triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, 75 mg/50 mg daily. If blood pressure still is not controlled, another antihypertensive agent may be added ( see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Clinical studies have shown that patients taking less bioavailable formulations of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide in daily doses of 25 mg to 50 mg hydrochlorothiazide and 50 mg to 100 mg triamterene may be safely changed to one triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, 37.5 mg/25 mg daily. All patients changed from less bioavailable formulations to triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, 75 mg/50 mg should be monitored clinically and for serum potassium after the transfer.
Warnings: WARNINGS: Hyperkalemia: Abnormal elevation of serum potassium levels (greater than or equal to 5.5 mEq/liter) can occur with all potassium-conserving diuretic combinations, including triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide. Hyperkalemia is more likely to occur in patients with renal impairment, diabetes (even without evidence of renal impairment), or elderly or severely ill patients. Since uncorrected hyperkalemia may be fatal, serum potassium levels must be monitored at frequent intervals especially in patients first receiving triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide, when dosages are changed or with any illness that may influence renal function. If hyperkalemia is suspected, (warning signs include paresthesias, muscular weakness, fatigue, flaccid paralysis of the extremities, bradycardia and shock) an electrocardiogram (ECG) should be obtained. However, it is important to monitor serum potassium levels because mild hyperkalemia may not be associated with ECG changes. If hyperkalemia is present, triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide should be discontinued immediately and a thiazide alone should be substituted. If the serum potassium exceeds 6.5 mEq/liter, more vigorous therapy is required. The clinical situation dictates the procedures to be employed. These include the intravenous administration of calcium chloride solution, sodium bicarbonate solution and/or the oral or parenteral administration of glucose with a rapid-acting insulin preparation. Cationic exchange resins such as sodium polystyrene sulfonate may be orally or rectally administered. Persistent hyperkalemia may require dialysis. The development of hyperkalemia associated with potassium-sparing diuretics is accentuated in the presence of renal impairment (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Patients with mild renal functional impairment should not receive this drug without frequent and continuing monitoring of serum electrolytes. Cumulative drug effects may be observed in patients with impaired renal function. The renal clearances of hydrochlorothiazide and the pharmacologically active metabolite of triamterene, the sulfate ester of hydroxytriamterene, have been shown to be reduced and the plasma levels increased following triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide administration to elderly patients and patients with impaired renal function. Hyperkalemia has been reported in diabetic patients with the use of potassium-conserving agents even in the absence of apparent renal impairment. Accordingly, triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide should be avoided in diabetic patients. If it is employed, serum electrolytes must be frequently monitored. Because of the potassium-sparing properties of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide should be used cautiously, if at all, with these agents (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Metabolic or Respiratory Acidosis: Potassium-conserving therapy should also be avoided in severely ill patients in whom respiratory or metabolic acidosis may occur. Acidosis may be associated with rapid elevations in serum potassium levels. If triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide is employed, frequent evaluations of acid/base balance and serum electrolytes are necessary. Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma: Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy. If hyperkalemia is suspected, (warning signs include paresthesias, muscular weakness, fatigue, flaccid paralysis of the extremities, bradycardia and shock), an electrocardiogram (ECG) should be obtained. Because of the potassium-sparing properties of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide should be used cautiously, if at all, with these agents (see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ). WARNINGS Hyperkalemia Abnormal elevation of serum potassium levels (greater than or equal to 5.5 mEq/liter) can occur with all potassium-conserving diuretic combinations, including triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide. If hyperkalemia is present, triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide should be discontinued immediately, and a thiazide alone should be substituted. Because of the potassium-sparing properties of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide should be used cautiously, if at all, with these agents (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Metabolic or Respiratory Acidosis Potassium-conserving therapy should also be avoided in severely ill patients in whom respiratory or metabolic acidosis may occur. Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. WARNINGS Hyperkalemia Abnormal elevation of serum potassium levels (greater than or equal to 5.5 mEq/liter) can occur with all potassium-sparing diuretic combinations, including triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules, USP. Hyperkalemia is more likely to occur in patients with renal impairment and diabetes (even without evidence of renal impairment), and in the elderly or severely ill. Since uncorrected hyperkalemia may be fatal, serum potassium levels must be monitored at frequent intervals especially in patients first receiving triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules, USP, when dosages are changed or with any illness that may influence renal function. If hyperkalemia is suspected (warning signs include paresthesias, muscular weakness, fatigue, flaccid paralysis of the extremities, bradycardia, and shock), an electrocardiogram (ECG) should be obtained. However, it is important to monitor serum potassium levels because hyperkalemia may not be associated with ECG changes. If hyperkalemia is present, triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules, USP should be discontinued immediately and a thiazide alone should be substituted. If the serum potassium exceeds 6.5 mEq/liter more vigorous therapy is required. These include the intravenous administration of calcium chloride solution, sodium bicarbonate solution, and/or the oral or parenteral administration of glucose with a rapid-acting insulin preparation. The development of hyperkalemia associated with potassium-sparing diuretics is accentuated in the presence of renal impairment (see CONTRAINDICATIONS section). The renal clearances of hydrochlorothiazide and the pharmacologically active metabolite of triamterene, the sulfate ester of hydroxytriamterene, have been shown to be reduced and the plasma levels increased following administration of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules, USP to elderly patients and patients with impaired renal function. Hyperkalemia has been reported in diabetic patients with the use of potassium-sparing agents even in the absence of apparent renal impairment. Accordingly, serum electrolytes must be frequently monitored if triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules, USP are used in diabetic patients. Metabolic or Respiratory Acidosis: Potassium-sparing therapy should also be avoided in severely ill patients in whom respiratory or metabolic acidosis may occur. If triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules, USP are employed, frequent evaluations of acid/base balance and serum electrolytes are necessary.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS: Hyperkalemia: Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide should not be used in the presence of elevated serum potassium levels (greater than or equal to 5.5 mEq/liter). If hyperkalemia develops, this drug should be discontinued and a thiazide alone should be substituted. Antikaliuretic Therapy or Potassium Supplementation: Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide should not be given to patients receiving other potassium-conserving agents such as spironolactone, amiloride hydrochloride or other formulations containing triamterene. Concomitant potassium supplementation in the form of medication, potassium-containing salt substitute or potassium-enriched diets should also not be used. Impaired Renal Function: Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide is contraindicated in patients with anuria, acute and chronic renal insufficiency or significant renal impairment. Hypersensitivity: Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide should not be used in patients who are hypersensitive to triamterene or hydrochlorothiazide or other sulfonamide-derived drugs. CONTRAINDICATIONS Antikaliuretic Therapy and Potassium Supplementation Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules should not be given to patients receiving other potassium-sparing agents such as spironolactone, amiloride, or other formulations containing triamterene. Concomitant potassium-containing salt substitutes should also not be used. Potassium supplementation should not be used with triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules except in severe cases of hypokalemia. Such concomitant therapy can be associated with rapid increases in serum potassium levels. If potassium supplementation is used, careful monitoring of the serum potassium level is necessary. Impaired Renal Function Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules are contraindicated in patients with anuria, acute and chronic renal insufficiency, or significant renal impairment. Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity to either drug in the preparation or to other sulfonamide-derived drugs is a contraindication. Hyperkalemia Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules should not be used in patients with pre-existing elevated serum potassium. WARNINGS CONTRAINDICATIONS Hyperkalemia Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide should not be used in the presence of elevated serum potassium levels (greater than or equal to 5.5 mEq/liter). If hyperkalemia develops, this drug should be discontinued, and a thiazide alone should be substituted. Antikaliuretic Therapy or Potassium Supplementation Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide should not be given to patients receiving other potassium-conserving agents such as spironolactone, amiloride hydrochloride or other formulations containing triamterene. Impaired Renal Function Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide is contraindicated in patients with anuria, acute and chronic renal insufficiency or significant renal impairment. Hypersensitivity Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide should not be used in patients who are hypersensitive to triamterene or hydrochlorothiazide or other sulfonamide-derived drugs. CONTRAINDICATIONS Antikaliuretic Therapy and Potassium Supplementation: Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules, USP should not be given to patients receiving other potassium-sparing agents such as spironolactone, amiloride, or other formulations containing triamterene. Potassium supplementation should not be used with triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules, USP except in severe cases of hypokalemia. Impaired Renal Function: Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules, USP are contraindicated in patients with anuria, acute and chronic renal insufficiency or significant renal impairment. Hypersensitivity: Hypersensitivity to either drug in the preparation or to other sulfonamide-derived drugs is a contraindication. Hyperkalemia: Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules, USP should not be used in patients with preexisting elevated serum potassium.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions: Thiazides may add to or potentiate the action of other antihypertensive drugs. The thiazides may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine. This diminution is not sufficient to preclude effectiveness of the pressor agent for therapeutic use. Thiazides have also been shown to increase the responsiveness to tubocurarine. Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics because they reduce its renal clearance and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Refer to the package insert on lithium before use of such concomitant therapy. Acute renal failure has been reported in a few patients receiving indomethacin and formulations containing triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide. Caution is therefore advised when administering non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents with triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide. Potassium-sparing agents should be used very cautiously, if at all, in conjunction with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors due to a greatly increased risk of hyperkalemia. Serum potassium should be monitored frequently. Drug Interactions Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme Inhibitors Potassium-sparing agents should be used with caution in conjunction with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors due to an increased risk of hyperkalemia. Oral Hypoglycemic Drugs Concurrent use with chlorpropamide may increase the risk of severe hyponatremia. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs A possible interaction resulting in acute renal failure has been reported in a few patients on triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules when treated with indomethacin, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent. Caution is advised in administering nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents with triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules. Lithium Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics because they reduce its renal clearance and increase the risk of lithium toxicity. Read prescribing information for lithium preparations before use of such concomitant therapy with triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules. Surgical Considerations Thiazides have been shown to decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine (an effect attributed to loss of sodium). Thiazides have also been shown to increase the paralyzing effect of nondepolarizing muscle relaxants such as tubocurarine (an effect attributed to potassium loss); consequently, caution should be observed in patients undergoing surgery Other Considerations Concurrent use of hydrochlorothiazide with amphotericin B or corticosteroids or corticotropin (ACTH) may intensify electrolyte imbalance, particularly hypokalemia, although the presence of triamterene minimizes the hypokalemic effect. Thiazides may add to or potentiate the action of other antihypertensive drugs. See INDICATIONS AND USAGE for concomitant use with other antihypertensive drugs. The effect of oral anticoagulants may be decreased when used concurrently with hydrochlorothiazide; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide may raise the level of blood uric acid; dosage adjustments of antigout medication may be necessary to control hyperuricemia and gout. The following agents given together with triamterene may promote serum potassium accumulation and possibly result in hyperkalemia because of the potassium-sparing nature of triamterene, especially in patients with renal insufficiency: blood from blood bank (may contain potassium up to 30 mEq/L of plasma or up to 65 mEq/L of whole blood when stored for more than 10 days); low-salt milk (may contain potassium up to 60 mEq/L); potassium-containing medications (such as parenteral penicillin G potassium); salt substitutes (most contain substantial amounts of potassium). Exchange resins, such as sodium polystyrene sulfonate, whether administered orally or rectally, reduce serum potassium levels by sodium replacement of the potassium; fluid retention may occur in some patients because of the increased sodium intake. Chronic or overuse of laxatives may reduce serum potassium levels by promoting excessive potassium loss from the intestinal tract; laxatives may interfere with the potassium-retaining effects of triamterene. The effectiveness of methenamine may be decreased when used concurrently with hydrochlorothiazide because of alkalinization of the urine. Drug Interactions Thiazides may add to or potentiate the action of other antihypertensive drugs. Drug Interactions Angiotensin-converting Enzyme Inhibitors: Potassium-sparing agents should be used with caution in conjunction with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors due to an increased risk of hyperkalemia. Oral Hypoglycemic Drugs: Concurrent use with chlorpropamide may increase the risk of severe hyponatremia. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs: A possible interaction resulting in acute renal failure has been reported in a few patients on triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules, USP when treated with indomethacin, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent. Caution is advised in administering nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents with triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules, USP. Lithium: Lithium generally should not be given with diuretics because they reduce its renal clearance and increase the risk of lithium toxicity. Read circulars for lithium preparations before use of such concomitant therapy with triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules, USP. Surgical Considerations: Thiazides have been shown to decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine (an effect attributed to loss of sodium). Thiazides have also been shown to increase the paralyzing effect of nondepolarizing muscle relaxants such as tubocurarine (an effect attributed to potassium loss); consequently caution should be observed in patients undergoing surgery. Other Considerations: Concurrent use of hydrochlorothiazide with amphotericin B or corticosteroids or corticotropin (ACTH) may intensify electrolyte imbalance, particularly hypokalemia, although the presence of triamterene minimizes the hypokalemic effect. Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules, USP may raise the level of blood uric acid; dosage adjustments of antigout medication may be necessary to control hyperuricemia and gout. The following agents given together with triamterene may promote serum potassium accumulation and possibly result in hyperkalemia because of the potassium-sparing nature of triamterene, especially in patients with renal insufficiency: blood from blood bank (may contain up to 30 mEq of potassium per liter of plasma or up to 65 mEq per liter of whole blood when stored for more than 10 days); low-salt milk (may contain up to 60 mEq of potassium per liter); potassium-containing medications (such as parenteral penicillin G potassium); salt substitutes (most contain substantial amounts of potassium). for concomitant use with other antihypertensive drugs.

=== LOVASTATIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Therapy with Lovastatin Tablets USP should be a component of multiple risk factor intervention in those individuals with dyslipidemia at risk for atherosclerotic vascular disease. Lovastatin Tablets USP should be used in addition to a diet restricted in saturated fat and cholesterol as part of a treatment strategy to lower total-C and LDL-C to target levels when the response to diet and other nonpharmacological measures alone has been inadequate to reduce risk. Primary Prevention of Coronary Heart Disease In individuals without symptomatic cardiovascular disease, average to moderately elevated total-C and LDL-C, and below average HDL-C, Lovastatin Tablets USP are indicated to reduce the risk of: - Myocardial infarction - Unstable angina - Coronary revascularization procedures (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Clinical Studies in Adults .) Coronary Heart Disease Lovastatin Tablets USP are indicated to slow the progression of coronary atherosclerosis in patients with coronary heart disease as part of a treatment strategy to lower total-C and LDL-C to target levels. Hypercholesterolemia Therapy with lipid-altering agents should be a component of multiple risk factor intervention in those individuals at significantly increased risk for atherosclerotic vascular disease due to hypercholesterolemia. Lovastatin Tablets USP are indicated as an adjunct to diet for the reduction of elevated total-C and LDL-C levels in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (Types IIa and IIb 2 ), when the response to diet restricted in saturated fat and cholesterol and to other nonpharmacological measures alone has been inadequate. 2 Classification of Hyperlipoproteinemias Lipid Elevations Type Lipoproteins elevated major minor I chylomicrons TG ↑→C IIa LDL C — IIb LDL, VLDL C TG III (rare) IDL C/TG — IV VLDL TG ↑→C V (rare) chylomicrons, VLDL TG ↑→C IDL = intermediate-density lipoprotein. Adolescent Patients With Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia Lovastatin Tablets USP are indicated as an adjunct to diet to reduce total-C, LDL-C and apolipoprotein B levels in adolescent boys and girls who are at least one year post-menarche, 10 to 17 years of age, with heFH if after an adequate trial of diet therapy the following findings are present: 1. LDL-C remains > 189 mg/dL or 2. LDL-C remains > 160 mg/dL and : • there is a positive family history of premature cardiovascular disease or • two or more other CVD risk factors are present in the adolescent patient General Recommendations Prior to initiating therapy with lovastatin, secondary causes for hypercholesterolemia (e.g., poorly controlled diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, nephrotic syndrome, dysproteinemias, obstructive liver disease, other drug therapy, alcoholism) should be excluded, and a lipid profile performed to measure total-C, HDL-C, and TG. For patients with TG less than 400 mg/dL (< 4.5 mmol/L), LDL-C can be estimated using the following equation: LDL-C = total-C - [0.2 x (TG) + HDL-C] For TG levels > 400 mg/dL (> 4.5 mmol/L), this equation is less accurate and LDL-C concentrations should be determined by ultracentrifugation. In hypertriglyceridemic patients, LDL-C may be low or normal despite elevated total-C. In such cases, Lovastatin Tablets USP are not indicated. The National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) Treatment Guidelines are summarized below: NCEP Treatment Guidelines: LDL-C Goals and Cutpoints for Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes and Drug Therapy in Different Risk Categories Risk Category LDL Goal (mg/dL) LDL Level at Which to Initiate Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes (mg/dL) LDL Level at Which to Consider Drug Therapy (mg/dL) CHD CHD, coronary heart disease or CHD risk equivalents (10 year risk > 20%) < 100 ≥ 100 ≥ 130 (100 to 129: drug optional) Some authorities recommend use of LDL-lowering drugs in this category if an LDL-C level of < 100 mg/dL cannot be achieved by therapeutic lifestyle changes. Others prefer use of drugs that primarily modify triglycerides and HDL-C, e.g., nicotinic acid or fibrate. Clinical judgment also may call for deferring drug therapy in this subcategory. 2+ Risk factors (10 year risk ≤ 20%) < 130 ≥ 130 10 year risk 10 to 20%: ≥ 130 10 year risk < 10%: ≥ 160 0 to 1 Risk factor Almost all people with 0 to 1 risk factor have a 10 year risk < 10%; thus, 10 year risk assessment in people with 0 to 1 risk factor is not necessary. < 160 ≥ 160 ≥ 190 (160 to 189: LDL-lowering drug optional) After the LDL-C goal has been achieved, if the TG is still ≥ 200 mg/dL, non-HDL-C (total-C minus HDL-C) becomes a secondary target of therapy. Non-HDL-C goals are set 30 mg/dL higher than LDL-C goals for each risk category. At the time of hospitalization for an acute coronary event, consideration can be given to initiating drug therapy at discharge if the LDL-C is ≥ 130 mg/dL (see NCEP Treatment Guidelines above). Since the goal of treatment is to lower LDL-C, the NCEP recommends that LDL-C levels be used to initiate and assess treatment response. Only if LDL-C levels are not available, should the total-C be used to monitor therapy. Although Lovastatin Tablets USP may be useful to reduce elevated LDL-C levels in patients with combined hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia where hypercholesterolemia is the major abnormality (Type IIb hyperlipoproteinemia), it has not been studied in conditions where the major abnormality is elevation of chylomicrons, VLDL or IDL (i.e., hyperlipoproteinemia types I, III, IV, or V). *** The NCEP classification of cholesterol levels in pediatric patients with a familial history of hypercholesterolemia or premature cardiovascular disease is summarized below: Category Total-C (mg/dL) LDL-C (mg/dL) Acceptable < 170 < 110 Borderline 170 to 199 110 to 129 High ≥ 200 ≥ 130 Children treated with lovastatin in adolescence should be re-evaluated in adulthood and appropriate changes made to their cholesterol-lowering regimen to achieve adult goals for LDL-C. Primary Prevention of Coronary Heart Disease In individuals without symptomatic cardiovascular disease, average to moderately elevated total-C and LDL-C and below average HDL-C, lovastatin tablets USP are indicated to reduce the risk of: -Myocardial infarction -Unstable angina -Coronary revascularization procedures (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Clinical Studies ). Coronary Heart Disease Lovastatin tablets USP are indicated to slow the progression of coronary atherosclerosis in patients with coronary heart disease as part of a treatment strategy to lower total-C and LDL-C to target levels. 2 Classification of Hyperlipoproteinemias IDL = intermediate-density lipoprotein. Type Lipoproteins elevated Lipid Elevations major minor I chylomicrons TG ↑→C IIa LDL C — IIb LDL,VLDL C TG III (rare) IDL C/TG — IV VLDL TG ↑→C V (rare) chylomicrons,VLDL TG ↑→C Adolescent Patients with Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia Lovastatin tablets USP are indicated as an adjunct to diet to reduce total-C, LDL-C and apolipoprotein B levels in adolescent boys and girls who are at least one year post-menarche, 10 to 17 years of age, with heFH if after an adequate trial of diet therapy the following findings are present: 1. LDL-C remains >189 mg/dL or 2. LDL-C remains >160 mg/dL and: there is a positive family history of premature cardiovascular disease or two or more other CVD risk factors are present in the adolescent patient General Recommendations Prior to initiating therapy with lovastatin, secondary causes for hypercholesterolemia (e.g., poorly controlled diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, nephrotic syndrome, dysproteinemias, obstructive liver disease, other drug therapy, alcoholism) should be excluded, and a lipid profile performed to measure total-C, HDL-C, and TG. For patients with TG less than 400 mg / dL (<4.5 mmol / L), LDL-C can be estimated using the following equation: LDL-C = total-C – [0.2 × (TG) + HDL-C] For TG levels >400 mg/dL (>4.5 mmol/L), this equation is less accurate and LDL-C concentrations should be determined by ultracentrifugation. The National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) Treatment Guidelines are summarized below: † CHD, coronary heart disease † † Some authorities recommend use of LDL-lowering drugs in this category if an LDL-C level of <100 mg/dL cannot be achieved by therapeutic lifestyle changes. † † † Almost all people with 0 to 1 risk factor have a 10-year risk <10%; thus, 10-year risk assessment in people with 0 to 1 risk factor is not necessary. NCEP Treatment Guidelines : LDL - C Goals and Cutpoints for Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes and Drug Therapy in Different Risk Categories Risk Category LDL Goal ( mg / dL ) LDL Level at Which to Initiate Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes ( mg / dL ) LDL Level at Which to Consider Drug Therapy ( mg / dL ) CHD † or CHD risk equivalents (10-year risk >20%) <100 ≥100 ≥130 (100 to 129: drug optional) † † 2+ Risk factors (10-year risk ≤20%) <130 ≥130 10-year risk 10 to 20%: ≥130 10-year risk <10%: ≥160 0 to 1 Risk factor † † † <160 ≥160 ≥190 (160 to 189: LDL-lowering drug optional) After the LDL-C goal has been achieved, if the TG is still ≥200 mg/dL, non-HDL-C (total-C minus HDL-C) becomes a secondary target of therapy. At the time of hospitalization for an acute coronary event, consideration can be given to initiating drug therapy at discharge if the LDL-C is ≥130 mg/dL (see NCEP Guidelines above). 2 The NCEP classification of cholesterol levels in pediatric patients with a familial history of hypercholesterolemia or premature cardiovascular disease is summarized below: Category Total - C ( mg / dL ) LDL - C ( mg / dL ) Acceptable <170 <110 Borderline 170 to 199 110 to 129 High ≥200 ≥130 Children treated with lovastatin in adolescence should be re-evaluated in adulthood and appropriate changes made to their cholesterol-lowering regimen to achieve adult goals for LDL-C. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Therapy with lovastatin should be a component of multiple risk factor intervention in those individuals with dyslipidemia at risk for atherosclerotic vascular disease. Lovastatin should be used in addition to a diet restricted in saturated fat and cholesterol as part of a treatment strategy to lower total-C and LDL-C to target levels when the response to diet and other nonpharmacological measures alone has been inadequate to reduce risk. Primary Prevention of Coronary Heart Disease In individuals without symptomatic cardiovascular disease, average to moderately elevated total-C and LDL-C, and below average HDL-C, lovastatin is indicated to reduce the risk of: Myocardial infarction Unstable angina Coronary revascularization procedures (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Clinical Studies .) Coronary Heart Disease Lovastatin is indicated to slow the progression of coronary atherosclerosis in patients with coronary heart disease as part of a treatment strategy to lower total-C and LDL-C to target levels. Hypercholesterolemia Therapy with lipid-altering agents should be a component of multiple risk factor intervention in those individuals at significantly increased risk for artherosclerotic vascular disease due to hypercholesterolemia. Lovastatin is indicated as an adjunct to diet for the reduction of elevated total-C and LDL-C levels in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (Types IIa and IIb 2 ), when the response to diet restricted in saturated fat and cholesterol and to other nonpharmacological measures alone has been inadequate. Adolescent Patients with Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia Lovastatin is indicated as an adjunct to diet to reduce total-C, LDL-C and apolipoprotein B levels in adolescent boys and girls who are at least one year post-menarche, 10 to 17 years of age, with heFH if after an adequate trial of diet therapy the following findings are present: LDL-C remains >189 mg/dL or LDL-C remains >160 mg/dL and: there is a positive family history of premature cardiovascular disease or two or more other CVD risk factors are present in the adolescent patient General Recommendations Prior to initiating therapy with lovastatin, secondary causes for hypercholesterolemia (e.g., poorly controlled diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, nephrotic syndrome, dysproteinemias, obstructive liver disease, other drug therapy, alcoholism) should be excluded, and a lipid profile performed to measure total-C, HDL-C, and TG. For patients with TG less than 400 mg/dL (<4.5 mmol/L), LDL-C can be estimated using the following equation: LDL-C = total-C - [0.2 × (TG) + HDL-C] For TG levels >400 mg/dL (>4.5 mmol/L), this equation is less accurate and LDL-C concentrations should be determined by ultracentrifugation. In such cases, lovastatin is not indicated. The National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) Treatment Guidelines are summarized below: † CHD, coronary heart disease †† Some authorities recommend use of LDL-lowering drugs in this category if an LDL-C level of <100 mg/dL cannot be achieved by therapeutic lifestyle changes. ††† Almost all people with 0-1 risk factor have a 10-year risk <10%; thus, 10-year risk assessment in people with 0-1 risk factor is not necessary. NCEP Treatment Guidelines: LDL-C Goals and Cutpoints for Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes and Drug Therapy in Different Risk Categories Risk Category LDL Goal (mg/dL) LDL Level at Which to Initiate Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes (mg/dL) LDL Level at Which to Consider Drug Therapy (mg/dL) CHD † or CHD risk equivalents (10-year risk >20%) <100 ≥100 ≥130 (100-129: drug optional) †† 2+ Risk factors (10 year risk ≤20%) <130 ≥130 10-year risk 10-20%: ≥130 10-year risk <10%: ≥160 0-1 Risk factor ††† <160 ≥160 ≥190 (160-189: LDL-lowering drug optional) 2 Classification of Hyperlipoproteinemias Lipid Elevations Type Lipoproteins elevated major minor I chylomicrons TG ↑→C IIa LDL C -- IIb LDL, VLDL C TG III (rare) IDL C/TG -- IV VLDL TG ↑→C V (rare) chylomicrons, VLDL TG ↑→C IDL = intermediate-density lipoprotein. After the LDL-C goal has been achieved, if the TG is still ≥200 mg/dL, non-HDL-C (total-C minus HDL-C) becomes a secondary target of therapy. Although lovastatin may be useful to reduce elevated LDL-C levels in patients with combined hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia where hypercholesterolemia is the major abnormality (Type IIb hyperlipoproteinemia), it has not been studied in conditions where the major abnormality is elevation of chylomicrons, VLDL or IDL (i.e., hyperlipoproteinemia types I, III, IV, or V). *** The NCEP classification of cholesterol levels in pediatric patients with a familial history of hypercholesterolemia or premature cardiovascular disease is summarized below: Category Total-C (mg/dL) LDL-C (mg/dL) Acceptable <170 <110 Borderline 170-199 110-129 High ≥200 ≥130 Children treated with lovastatin in adolescence should be re-evaluated in adulthood and appropriate changes made to their cholesterol-lowering regimen to achieve adult goals for LDL-C. 2 Classification of Hyperlipoproteinemias Lipid Elevaions Type Lipoproteins elevated major minor I chylonicrons TG ↑→C IIa LDL C -- IIb LDL, VLDL C TG III (rare) IDL C/TG -- IV VLDL TG ↑→C V (rare) chylomicrons, VLDL TG ↑→C IDL = intermediate-densit lipoprotein Adolescent Patients with Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia Lovastatin is indicated as an adjunct to diet to reduce total-C, LDL-C and apolipoprotein B levels in adolescent boys and girls who are at least one year post-menarche, 10 to 17 years of age, with heFH if after an adequate trial of diet therapy the following findings are present: LDL-C remains >189 mg/dL or LDL-C remains >160 mg/dL and: there is a positive family history of premature cardiovascular disease or two or more other CVD risk factors are present in the adolescent patient General Recommendations Prior to initiating therapy with lovastatin, secondary causes for hypercholesterolemia (e.g., poorly controlled diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, nephrotic syndrome, dysproteinemias, obstructive liver disease, other drug therapy, alcoholism) should be excluded, and a lipid profile performed to measure total-C, HDL-C, and TG. The National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) Treatment Guidelines are summarized below: NCEP Treatment Guidelines: LDL-C Goals and Cutpoints for Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes and Drug Therapy in Different Risk Categories Risk Category LDL Goal (mg/dL) LDL Level at Which to Initiate Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes (mg/dL) LDL Level at Which to Consider Drug Therapy (mg/dL) CHD† or CHD risk equivalents (10-year risk >20%) <100 ≥100 ≥130 (100 to 129: drug optional) †† 2+ Risk factors (10 year risk ≤20%) <130 ≥130 10-year risk 10 to 20%: ≥130 10-year risk <10%: ≥160 0 to 1 Risk factor ††† <160 ≥160 ≥190 (160 to 189: LDL-lowering drug optional) † CHD, coronary heart disease †† Some authorities recommend use of LDL-lowering drugs in this category if an LDL-C level of <100 mg/dL cannot be achieved by therapeutic lifestyle changes. ††† Almost all people with 0 to 1 risk factor have a 10-year risk <10%; thus, 10-year risk assessment in people with 0 to 1 risk factor is not necessary. *** The NCEP classification of cholesterol levels in pediatric patients with a familial history of hypercholesterolemia or premature cardiovascular disease is summarized below: Category Total-C (mg/dL) LDL-C (mg/dL) Acceptable <170 <110 Borderline 170 to 199 110 to 129 High ≥200 ≥130 Children treated with lovastatin in adolescence should be re-evaluated in adulthood and appropriate changes made to their cholesterol-lowering regimen to achieve adult goals for LDL-C. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Therapy with Lovastatin Tablets should be a component of multiple risk factor intervention in those individuals with dyslipidemia at risk for atherosclerotic vascular disease. Lovastatin Tablets should be used in addition to a diet restricted in saturated fat and cholesterol as part of a treatment strategy to lower total-C and LDL-C to target levels when the response to diet and other nonpharmacological measures alone has been inadequate to reduce risk. Primary Prevention of Coronary Heart Disease In individuals without symptomatic cardiovascular disease, average to moderately elevated total-C and LDL-C, and below average HDL-C, Lovastatin Tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of: - Myocardial infarction - Unstable angina - Coronary revascularization procedures (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Clinical Studies in Adults .) Coronary Heart Disease Lovastatin Tablets are indicated to slow the progression of coronary atherosclerosis in patients with coronary heart disease as part of a treatment strategy to lower total-C and LDL-C to target levels. Lovastatin Tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet for the reduction of elevated total-C and LDL-C levels in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (Types IIa and IIb 2 ), when the response to diet restricted in saturated fat and cholesterol and to other nonpharmacological measures alone has been inadequate. Adolescent Patients With Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia Lovastatin Tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet to reduce total-C, LDL-C and apolipoprotein B levels in adolescent boys and girls who are at least one year post-menarche, 10 to 17 years of age, with heFH if after an adequate trial of diet therapy the following findings are present: LDL-C remains > 189 mg/dL or LDL-C remains > 160 mg/dL and : there is a positive family history of premature cardiovascular disease or two or more other CVD risk factors are present in the adolescent patient General Recommendations Prior to initiating therapy with lovastatin, secondary causes for hypercholesterolemia (e.g., poorly controlled diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, nephrotic syndrome, dysproteinemias, obstructive liver disease, other drug therapy, alcoholism) should be excluded, and a lipid profile performed to measure total-C, HDL-C, and TG. In such cases, Lovastatin Tablets are not indicated. The National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) Treatment Guidelines are summarized below: NCEP Treatment Guidelines: LDL-C Goals and Cutpoints for Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes and Drug Therapy in Different Risk Categories Risk Category LDL Goal (mg/dL) LDL Level at Which to Initiate Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes (mg/dL) LDL Level at Which to Consider Drug Therapy (mg/dL) CHD 1 or CHD risk equivalents (10 year risk > 20%) < 100 ≥ 100 ≥ 130 (100 to 129: drug optional) 2 2+ Risk factors (10 year risk ≤ 20%) < 130 ≥ 130 10 year risk 10 to 20%: ≥ 130 10 year risk < 10%: ≥ 160 0 to 1 Risk factor 3 < 160 ≥ 160 ≥ 190 (160 to 189: LDL-lowering drug optional) CHD, coronary heart disease Some authorities recommend use of LDL-lowering drugs in this category if an LDL-C level of < 100 mg/dL cannot be achieved by therapeutic lifestyle changes. Almost all people with 0 to 1 risk factor have a 10 year risk < 10%; thus, 10 year risk assessment in people with 0 to 1 risk factor is not necessary. After the LDL-C goal has been achieved, if the TG is still ≥ 200 mg/dL, non-HDL-C (total-C minus HDL-C) becomes a secondary target of therapy. Although Lovastatin Tablets may be useful to reduce elevated LDL-C levels in patients with combined hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia where hypercholesterolemia is the major abnormality (Type IIb hyperlipoproteinemia), it has not been studied in conditions where the major abnormality is elevation of chylomicrons, VLDL or IDL (i.e., hyperlipoproteinemia types I, III, IV, or V). 2 The NCEP classification of cholesterol levels in pediatric patients with a familial history of hypercholesterolemia or premature cardiovascular disease is summarized below: Category Total-C (mg/dL) LDL-C (mg/dL) Acceptable < 170 < 110 Borderline 170 to 199 110 to 129 High ≥ 200 ≥ 130 Children treated with lovastatin in adolescence should be re-evaluated in adulthood and appropriate changes made to their cholesterol-lowering regimen to achieve adult goals for LDL-C.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The patient should be placed on a standard cholesterol-lowering diet before receiving lovastatin tablets and should continue on this diet during treatment with lovastatin tablets (see NCEP Treatment Guidelines for details on dietary therapy). Lovastatin tablets should be given with meals. Adult Patients The usual recommended starting dose is 20 mg once a day given with the evening meal. The recommended dosing range of lovastatin is 10 to 80 mg/day in single or two divided doses; the maximum recommended dose is 80 mg/day. Doses should be individualized according to the recommended goal of therapy (see NCEP Treatment Guidelines and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Patients requiring reductions in LDL-C of 20% or more to achieve their goal (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) should be started on 20 mg/day of lovastatin tablets. A starting dose of 10 mg of lovastatin may be considered for patients requiring smaller reductions. Adjustments should be made at intervals of 4 weeks or more. Cholesterol levels should be monitored periodically and consideration should be given to reducing the dosage of lovastatin tablets if cholesterol levels fall significantly below the targeted range. Dosage in Patients Taking Danazol, Diltiazem, Dronedarone or Verapamil In patients taking danazol, diltiazem, dronedarone or verapamil concomitantly with lovastatin, therapy should begin with 10 mg of lovastatin and should not exceed 20 mg/day (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics , WARNINGS , Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis , PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , Other Drug Interactions ). Dosage in Patients Taking Amiodarone In patients taking amiodarone concomitantly with lovastatin tablets, the dose should not exceed 40 mg/day (see WARNINGS , Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis and PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , Other Drug Interactions ). Adolescent Patients (10 to 17 Years of Age) With Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia The recommended dosing range of lovastatin is 10 to 40 mg/day; the maximum recommended dose is 40 mg/day. Doses should be individualized according to the recommended goal of therapy (see NCEP Pediatric Panel Guidelines 4 , CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , and INDICATIONS AND USAGE ). Patients requiring reductions in LDL-C of 20% or more to achieve their goal should be started on 20 mg/day of lovastatin tablets. 4 National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP): Highlights of the Report of the Expert Panel on Blood Cholesterol Levels in Children and Adolescents. Pediatrics . 89(3):495-501. 1992. Concomitant Lipid-Lowering Therapy Lovastatin tablets are effective alone or when used concomitantly with bile-acid sequestrants (see WARNINGS , Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis and PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Dosage in Patients With Renal Insufficiency In patients with severe renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min), dosage increases above 20 mg/day should be carefully considered and, if deemed necessary, implemented cautiously (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and WARNINGS , Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis ). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The patient should be placed on a standard cholesterol-lowering diet before receiving lovastatin tablets USP and should continue on this diet during treatment with lovastatin tablets USP (see NCEP Treatment Guidelines for details on dietary therapy). Lovastatin tablets USP should be given with meals. The recommended dosing range of lovastatin is 10 to 80 mg / day in single or two divided doses; the maximum recommended dose is 80 mg / day. Doses should be individualized according to the recommended goal of therapy (see NCEP Guidelines and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Dosage in Patients taking Danazol, Diltiazem, Dronedarone or Verapamil In patients taking danazol, diltiazem, dronedarone or verapamil concomitantly with lovastatin, therapy should begin with 10 mg of lovastatin and should not exceed 20 mg / day (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics , WARNINGS, Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis , PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions , Other Drug Interactions ). Dosage in Patients taking Amiodarone In patients taking amiodarone concomitantly with lovastatin, the dose should not exceed 40 mg/day (see WARNINGS, Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis and PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions , Other Drug Interactions ). Adolescent Patients (10 to 17 years of age) with Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia The recommended dosing range of lovastatin is 10 to 40 mg / day; the maximum recommended dose is 40 mg / day. Patients requiring reductions in LDL-C of 20% or more to achieve their goal should be started on 20 mg/day of lovastatin. Concomitant Lipid-Lowering Therapy Lovastatin tablets USP are effective alone or when used concomitantly with bile-acid sequestrants (see WARNINGS, Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis and PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Dosage in Patients with Renal Insufficiency In patients with severe renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance <30 mL / min), dosage increases above 20 mg / day should be carefully considered and, if deemed necessary, implemented cautiously (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and WARNINGS, Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis ). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The patient should be placed on a standard cholesterol-lowering diet before receiving lovastatin and should continue on this diet during treatment with lovastatin (see NCEP Treatment Guidelines for details on dietary therapy). Lovastatin should be given with meals. The recommended dosing range is 10 to 80 mg/day in single or two divided doses; the maximum recommended dose is 80 mg/day. Patients requiring reductions in LDL-C of 20% or more to achieve their goal (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) should be started on 20 mg/day of lovastatin. A starting dose of 10 mg may be considered for patients requiring smaller reductions. Cholesterol levels should be monitored periodically and consideration should be given to reducing the dosage of lovastatin if cholesterol levels fall significantly below the targeted range. Dosage in Patients taking Danazol, Diltiazem, Dronedarone, or Verapamil In patients taking danazol, diltiazem, dronedarone or verapamil concomitantly with lovastatin, therapy should begin with 10 mg of lovastatin and should not exceed 20 mg / day (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics , WARNINGS , Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis , PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions, Other Drug Interactions ). Dosage in Patients taking Amiodarone In patients taking amiodarone concomitantly with lovastatin, the dose should not exceed 40 mg/day (see WARNINGS , Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis and PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , Other drug interactions ). Adolescent Patients (10 to 17 years of age) with Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia The recommended dosing range is 10 to 40 mg/day; the maximum recommended dose is 40 mg/day. Doses should be individualized according to the recommended goal of therapy (see NCEP Pediatric Panel Guidelines ††, CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , and INDICATIONS AND USAGE ). Concomitant Lipid-Lowering Therapy Lovastatin is effective alone or when used concomitantly with bile-acid sequestrants (see WARNINGS , Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis and PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Dosage in Patients with Renal Insufficiency In patients with severe renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance <30 mL/min), dosage increases above 20 mg/day should be carefully considered and, if deemed necessary, implemented cautiously (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and WARNINGS , Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis ). 89(3): 495-501, 1992.
Warnings: WARNINGS Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis Lovastatin, like other inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase, occasionally causes myopathy manifested as muscle pain, tenderness or weakness with creatine kinase (CK) above ten times the upper limit of normal (ULN). Myopathy sometimes takes the form of rhabdomyolysis with or without acute renal failure secondary to myoglobinuria, and rare fatalities have occurred. The risk of myopathy is increased by high levels of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitory activity in plasma. The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is dose related. In a clinical study (EXCEL) in which patients were carefully monitored and some interacting drugs were excluded, there was one case of myopathy among 4933 patients randomized to lovastatin 20 to 40 mg daily for 48 weeks, and 4 among 1649 patients randomized to 80 mg daily. There have been rare reports of immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy (IMNM), an autoimmune myopathy, associated with statin use. IMNM is characterized by: proximal muscle weakness and elevated serum creatine kinase, which persist despite discontinuation of statin treatment; muscle biopsy showing necrotizing myopathy without significant inflammation; improvement with immunosuppressive agents. All patients starting therapy with lovastatin, or whose dose of lovastatin is being increased, should be advised of the risk of myopathy and told to report promptly any unexplained muscle pain, tenderness or weakness particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever or if muscle signs and symptoms persist after discontinuing lovastatin. Lovastatin therapy should be discontinued immediately if myopathy is diagnosed or suspected. In most cases, muscle symptoms and CK increases resolved when treatment was promptly discontinued. Periodic CK determinations may be considered in patients starting therapy with lovastatin or whose dose is being increased, but there is no assurance that such monitoring will prevent myopathy. Many of the patients who have developed rhabdomyolysis on therapy with lovastatin have had complicated medical histories, including renal insufficiency usually as a consequence of long-standing diabetes mellitus. Such patients merit closer monitoring. Lovastatin therapy should be discontinued if markedly elevated CPK levels occur or myopathy is diagnosed or suspected. Lovastatin therapy should also be temporarily withheld in any patient experiencing an acute or serious condition predisposing to the development of renal failure secondary to rhabdomyolysis, e.g., sepsis; hypotension; major surgery; trauma; severe metabolic, endocrine, or electrolyte disorders; or uncontrolled epilepsy. The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased by concomitant use of lovastatin with the following: Strong inhibitors of CYP3A4: Lovastatin, like several other inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase, is a substrate of cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4). Certain drugs which inhibit this metabolic pathway can raise the plasma levels of lovastatin and may increase the risk of myopathy. These include itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, the macrolide antibiotics erythromycin and clarithromycin, the ketolide antibiotic telithromycin, HIV protease inhibitors, boceprevir, telaprevir, the antidepressant nefazodone, or cobicistat-containing products. Combination of these drugs with lovastatin is contraindicated. If short-term treatment with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is unavoidable, therapy with lovastatin should be suspended during the course of treatment (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ; PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Gemfibrozil: The combined use of lovastatin with gemfibrozil should be avoided. Other lipid-lowering drugs (other fibrates or ≥ 1 g/day of niacin): Caution should be used when prescribing other fibrates or lipid-lowering doses (≥ 1 g/day) of niacin with lovastatin, as these agents can cause myopathy when given alone. The benefit of further alterations in lipid levels by the combined use of lovastatin with other fibrates or niacin should be carefully weighed against the potential risks of these combinations. Cyclosporine: The use of lovastatin with cyclosporine should be avoided. Danazol, diltiazem, dronedarone, or verapamil with higher doses of lovastatin: The dose of lovastatin should not exceed 20 mg daily in patients receiving concomitant medication with danazol, diltiazem, dronedarone, or verapamil. The benefits of the use of lovastatin in patients receiving danazol, diltiazem, dronedarone, or verapamil should be carefully weighed against the risks of these combinations. Amiodarone: The dose of lovastatin should not exceed 40 mg daily in patients receiving concomitant medication with amiodarone. The combined use of lovastatin at doses higher than 40 mg daily with amiodarone should be avoided unless the clinical benefit is likely to outweigh the increased risk of myopathy. The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased when amiodarone is used concomitantly with higher doses of a closely related member of the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor class. Colchicine: Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with lovastatin coadministered with colchicine, and caution should be exercised when prescribing lovastatin with colchicine (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Ranolazine: The risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, may be increased by concomitant administration of ranolazine. Dose adjustment of lovastatin may be considered during coadministration with ranolazine. Prescribing recommendations for interacting agents are summarized in Table VII (see also CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics ; PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Table VII: Drug Interactions Associated With Increased Risk of Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis Interacting Agents Prescribing Recommendations Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, e.g.: Contraindicated with lovastatin Ketoconazole Itraconazole Posaconazole Voriconazole Erythromycin Clarithromycin Telithromycin HIV protease inhibitors Boceprevir Telaprevir Nefazodone Cobicistat-containing products Gemfibrozil Avoid with lovastatin Cyclosporine Danazol Do not exceed 20 mg lovastatin daily Diltiazem Dronedarone Verapamil Amiodarone Do not exceed 40 mg lovastatin daily Grapefruit juice Avoid grapefruit juice Liver Dysfunction Persistent increases (to more than 3 times the upper limit of normal) in serum transaminases occurred in 1.9% of adult patients who received lovastatin for at least one year in early clinical trials (see ADVERSE REACTIONS). When the drug was interrupted or discontinued in these patients, the transaminase levels usually fell slowly to pretreatment levels. The increases usually appeared 3 to 12 months after the start of therapy with lovastatin, and were not associated with jaundice or other clinical signs or symptoms. There was no evidence of hypersensitivity. In the EXCEL study (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Clinical Studies in Adults ), the incidence of persistent increases in serum transaminases over 48 weeks was 0.1% for placebo, 0.1% at 20 mg/day, 0.9% at 40 mg/day, and 1.5% at 80 mg/day in patients on lovastatin. However, in postmarketing experience with lovastatin, symptomatic liver disease has been reported rarely at all dosages (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). In AFCAPS/TexCAPS, the number of participants with consecutive elevations of either alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (> 3 times the upper limit of normal), over a median of 5.1 years of follow-up, was not significantly different between the lovastatin and placebo groups (18 [0.6%] vs. 11 [0.3%]). The starting dose of lovastatin was 20 mg/day; 50% of the lovastatin treated participants were titrated to 40 mg/day at Week 18. Of the 18 participants on lovastatin with consecutive elevations of either ALT or AST, 11 (0.7%) elevations occurred in participants taking 20 mg/day, while 7 (0.4%) elevations occurred in participants titrated to 40 mg/day. Elevated transaminases resulted in discontinuation of 6 (0.2%) participants from therapy in the lovastatin group (n = 3,304) and 4 (0.1%) in the placebo group (n = 3,301). It is recommended that liver enzyme tests be obtained prior to initiating therapy with lovastatin and repeated as clinically indicated. There have been rare postmarketing reports of fatal and non-fatal hepatic failure in patients taking statins, including lovastatin. If serious liver injury with clinical symptoms and/or hyperbilirubinemia or jaundice occurs during treatment with lovastatin, promptly interrupt therapy. If an alternate etiology is not found do not restart lovastatin. The drug should be used with caution in patients who consume substantial quantities of alcohol and/or have a past history of liver disease. Active liver disease or unexplained transaminase elevations are contraindications to the use of lovastatin. Moderate (less than three times the upper limit of normal) elevations of serum transaminases have been reported following therapy with lovastatin (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). These changes appeared soon after initiation of therapy with lovastatin, were often transient, were not accompanied by any symptoms and interruption of treatment was not required. All patients starting therapy with lovastatin, or whose dose of lovastatin is being increased, should be advised of the risk of myopathy and told to report promptly any unexplained muscle pain, tenderness or weakness particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever or if muscle signs and symptoms persists after discontinuing lovastatin. The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased by concomitant use of lovastatin with the following: Strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 Lovastatin, like several other inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase, is a substrate of cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4). If short-term treatment with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is unavoidable, therapy with lovastatin should be suspended during the course of treatment (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ; PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Gemfibrozil The combined use of lovastatin with gemfibrozil should be avoided. Other lipid-lowering drugs (other fibrates or ≥1 g/day of niacin) Caution should be used when prescribing other fibrates or lipid-lowering doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin with lovastatin, as these agents can cause myopathy when given alone. Cyclosporine The use of lovastatin with cyclosporine should be avoided. Danazol, diltiazem, dronedarone or verapamil with higher doses of lovastatin The dose of lovastatin should not exceed 20 mg daily in patients receiving concomitant medication with danazol, diltiazem, dronedarone, or verapamil. Amiodarone The dose of lovastatin should not exceed 40 mg daily in patients receiving concomitant medication with amiodarone. Colchicine Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with lovastatin coadministered with colchicine, and caution should be exercised when prescribing lovastatin with colchicine (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Ranolazine The risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, may be increased by concomitant administration of ranolazine. Prescribing recommendations for interacting agents are summarized in Table VII (see also CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics ; PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Table VII Drug Interactions Associated with Increased Risk of Myopathy / Rhabdomyolysis Interacting Agents Prescribing Recommendations Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, e.g.: Ketoconazole Itraconazole Posaconazole Voriconazole Erythromycin Clarithromycin Telithromycin HIV protease inhibitors Boceprevir Telaprevir Nefazodone Cobicistat-containing products Contraindicated with lovastatin Gemfibrozil Cyclosporine Avoid with lovastatin Danazol Diltiazem Dronedarone Verapamil Do not exceed 20 mg lovastatin daily Amiodarone Do not exceed 40 mg lovastatin daily Grapefruit juice Avoid grapefruit juice Immune-Mediated Necrotizing Myopathy There have been rare reports of immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy (IMNM), an autoimmune myopathy, associated with statin use. IMNM is characterized by: proximal muscle weakness and elevated serum creatine kinase, which persist despite discontinuation of statin treatment; positive anti-HMG CoA reductase antibody; muscle biopsy showing necrotizing myopathy; and improvement with immunosuppressive agents. Additional neuromuscular and serologic testing may be necessary. Treatment with immunosuppressive agents may be required. Consider risk of IMNM carefully prior to initiation of a different statin. If therapy is initiated with a different statin, monitor for signs and symptoms of IMNM. Liver Dysfunction Persistent increases (to more than 3 times the upper limit of normal) in serum transaminases occurred in 1.9% of adult patients who received lovastatin for at least one year in early clinical trials (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). In the EXCEL study (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Clinical Studies ) , the incidence of persistent increases in serum transaminases over 48 weeks was 0.1% for placebo, 0.1% at 20 mg/day, 0.9% at 40 mg/day, and 1.5% at 80 mg/day in patients on lovastatin. However, in post-marketing experience with lovastatin, symptomatic liver disease has been reported rarely at all dosages (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Elevated transaminases resulted in discontinuation of 6 (0.2%) participants from therapy in the lovastatin group (n=3,304) and 4 (0.1%) in the placebo group (n=3,301). WARNINGS Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis Lovastatin, like other inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase, occasionally causes myopathy manifested as muscle pain, tenderness or weakness with creatine kinase (CK) above 10 times the upper limit of normal (ULN). Lovatsatin therapy should also be temporarily withheld in any patient experiencing an acute or serious condition predisposing to the development of renal failure secondary to rhabdomyolysis, e.g., sepsis; hypotension; major surgery; trauma; severe metabolic, endocrine, or electrolyte disorders; or uncontrolled epilepsy. These include itraconazole, ketoconazole, and posaconazole, voriconazole, the macrolide antibiotics erythromycin and clarithromycin, the ketolide antibiotic telithromycin, HIV protease inhibitors, boceprevir, telaprevir, the antidepressant nefazodone, or cobicistat-containing products. Other lipid-lowering drugs (other fibrates or ≥ 1 g/day of niacin): Caution should be used when prescribing other fibrates or lipid-lowering doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin with lovastatin, as these agents can cause myopathy when given alone. Danazol, diltiazem, dronedarone or verapamil with higher doses of lovastatin: The dose of lovastatin should not exceed 20 mg daily in patients receiving concomitant medication with danazol, diltiazem, dronedarone, or verapamil. Table VII Immune-Mediated Necrotizing Myopathy There have been rare reports of immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy (IMNM), an autoimmune myopathy, associated with statin use. Additional neuomuscular and serologic testing may be necessary. In the EXCEL study (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Clinical Studies ), the incidence of persistent increases in serum transaminases over 48 weeks was 0.1% for placebo, 0.1% at 20 mg/day, 0.9% at 40 mg/day, and 1.5% at 80 mg/day in patients on lovastatin. Table VII: Drug Interactions Associated With Increased Risk of Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis Interacting Agents Prescribing Recommendations Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, e.g.: Contraindicated with lovastatin Ketoconazole Itraconazole Posaconazole Voriconazole Erythromycin Clarithromycin Telithromycin HIV protease inhibitors Boceprevir Telaprevir Nefazodone Cobicistat-containing products Gemfibrozil Avoid with lovastatin Cyclosporine Danazol Do not exceed 20 mg lovastatin daily Diltiazem Dronedarone Verapamil Amiodarone Do not exceed 40 mg lovastatin daily Grapefruit juice Avoid grapefruit juice Immune-Mediated Necrotizing Myopathy There have been rare reports of immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy (IMNM), an autoimmune myopathy, associated with statin use. Liver Dysfunction Persistent increases (to more than 3 times the upper limit of normal) in serum transaminases occurred in 1.9% of adult patients who received lovastatin for at least one year in early clinical trials (see ADVERSE REACTIONS). Immune-Mediated Necrotizing Myopathy There have been rare reports of immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy (IMNM), an autoimmune myopathy, associated with statin use.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication. Active liver disease or unexplained persistent elevations of serum transaminases (see WARNINGS ). Concomitant administration with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, HIV protease inhibitors, boceprevir, telaprevir, erythromycin, clarithromycin, telithromycin, nefazodone and cobicistat-containing products) (see WARNINGS , Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis ). Pregnancy and Lactation (See PRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy and Nursing Mothers .) Atherosclerosis is a chronic process and the discontinuation of lipid-lowering drugs during pregnancy should have little impact on the outcome of long-term therapy of primary hypercholesterolemia. Moreover, cholesterol and other products of the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway are essential components for fetal development, including synthesis of steroids and cell membranes. Because of the ability of inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase such as lovastatin to decrease the synthesis of cholesterol and possibly other products of the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway, lovastatin is contraindicated during pregnancy and in nursing mothers. Lovastatin should be administered to women of childbearing age only when such patients are highly unlikely to conceive. If the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, lovastatin should be discontinued immediately and the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus (see PRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy ). Concomitant administration with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, HIV protease inhibitors, boceprevir, telaprevir, erythromycin, clarithromycin, telithromycin, nefazodone, and cobicistat-containing products) (see WARNINGS, Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis ). Pregnancy and lactation (see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy and Nursing Mothers ). Atherosclerosis is a chronic process and the discontinuation of lipid-lowering drugs during pregnancy should have little impact on the outcome of long-term therapy of primary hypercholesterolemia. If the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, lovastatin should be discontinued immediately and the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus (see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy ). Concomitant administration with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, HIV protease inhibitors, boceprevir, telaprevir, erythromycin, clarithromycin, telithromycin ,nefazodone, and cobicistat-containing products) (see WARNINGS , Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis ) . Pregnancy and lactation. ( see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy and Nursing Mothers ).
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions CYP3A4 Interactions Lovastatin is metabolized by CYP3A4 but has no CYP3A4 inhibitory activity; therefore it is not expected to affect the plasma concentrations of other drugs metabolized by CYP3A4. Strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, clarithromycin, telithromycin, HIV protease inhibitors, boceprevir, telaprevir, nefazodone, erythromycin, and cobicistat-containing products), and grapefruit juice increase the risk of myopathy by reducing the elimination of lovastatin (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis , and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics ). Interactions With Lipid-Lowering Drugs That Can Cause Myopathy When Given Alone The risk of myopathy is also increased by the following lipid-lowering drugs that are not strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, but which can cause myopathy when given alone. See WARNINGS, Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis. Gemfibrozil Other fibrates Niacin (nicotinic acid) (≥ 1 g/day) Other Drug Interactions Cyclosporine The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased by concomitant administration of cyclosporine (see WARNINGS , Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis ). Danazol, Diltiazem, Dronedarone or Verapamil The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased by concomitant administration of danazol, diltiazem, dronedarone or verapamil particularly with higher doses of lovastatin (see WARNINGS , Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis ; CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics ). Amiodarone The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased when amiodarone is used concomitantly with a closely related member of the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor class (see WARNINGS , Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis ). Coumarin Anticoagulants In a small clinical trial in which lovastatin was administered to warfarin treated patients, no effect on prothrombin time was detected. However, another HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor has been found to produce a less than two-second increase in prothrombin time in healthy volunteers receiving low doses of warfarin. Also, bleeding and/or increased prothrombin time have been reported in a few patients taking coumarin anticoagulants concomitantly with lovastatin. It is recommended that in patients taking anticoagulants, prothrombin time be determined before starting lovastatin and frequently enough during early therapy to insure that no significant alteration of prothrombin time occurs. Once a stable prothrombin time has been documented, prothrombin times can be monitored at the intervals usually recommended for patients on coumarin anticoagulants. If the dose of lovastatin is changed, the same procedure should be repeated. Lovastatin therapy has not been associated with bleeding or with changes in prothrombin time in patients not taking anticoagulants. Colchicine Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with lovastatin coadministered with colchicine. See WARNINGS , Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis . Ranolazine The risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, may be increased by concomitant administration of ranolazine. Propranolol In normal volunteers, there was no clinically significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interaction with concomitant administration of single doses of lovastatin and propranolol. Digoxin In patients with hypercholesterolemia, concomitant administration of lovastatin and digoxin resulted in no effect on digoxin plasma concentrations. Oral Hypoglycemic Agents In pharmacokinetic studies of lovastatin in hypercholesterolemic non-insulin dependent diabetic patients, there was no drug interaction with glipizide or with chlorpropamide (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Clinical Studies in Adults ). Endocrine Function Increases in HbA1c and fasting serum glucose levels have been reported with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, including lovastatin. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors interfere with cholesterol synthesis and as such might theoretically blunt adrenal and/or gonadal steroid production. Results of clinical trials with drugs in this class have been inconsistent with regard to drug effects on basal and reserve steroid levels. However, clinical studies have shown that lovastatin does not reduce basal plasma cortisol concentration or impair adrenal reserve, and does not reduce basal plasma testosterone concentration. Another HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor has been shown to reduce the plasma testosterone response to HCG. In the same study, the mean testosterone response to HCG was slightly but not significantly reduced after treatment with lovastatin 40 mg daily for 16 weeks in 21 men. The effects of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors on male fertility have not been studied in adequate numbers of male patients. The effects, if any, on the pituitary-gonadal axis in pre-menopausal women are unknown. Patients treated with lovastatin who develop clinical evidence of endocrine dysfunction should be evaluated appropriately. Caution should also be exercised if an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor or other agent used to lower cholesterol levels is administered to patients also receiving other drugs (e.g., spironolactone, cimetidine) that may decrease the levels or activity of endogenous steroid hormones. CNS Toxicity Lovastatin produced optic nerve degeneration (Wallerian degeneration of retinogeniculate fibers) in clinically normal dogs in a dose-dependent fashion starting at 60 mg/kg/day, a dose that produced mean plasma drug levels about 30 times higher than the mean drug level in humans taking the highest recommended dose (as measured by total enzyme inhibitory activity). Vestibulocochlear Wallerian-like degeneration and retinal ganglion cell chromatolysis were also seen in dogs treated for 14 weeks at 180 mg/kg/day, a dose which resulted in a mean plasma drug level (C max ) similar to that seen with the 60 mg/kg/day dose. CNS vascular lesions, characterized by perivascular hemorrhage and edema, mononuclear cell infiltration of perivascular spaces, perivascular fibrin deposits and necrosis of small vessels, were seen in dogs treated with lovastatin at a dose of 180 mg/kg/day, a dose which produced plasma drug levels (C max ) which were about 30 times higher than the mean values in humans taking 80 mg/day. Similar optic nerve and CNS vascular lesions have been observed with other drugs of this class. Cataracts were seen in dogs treated for 11 and 28 weeks at 180 mg/kg/day and 1 year at 60 mg/kg/day. Strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, clarithromycin, telithromycin, HIV protease inhibitors, boceprevir, telaprevir, nefazodone, erythromycin, and cobicistat-containing products), and grapefruit juice increase the risk of myopathy by reducing the elimination of lovastatin. (See CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS, Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis , and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics .) (See CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS, Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis , and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics .) Interactions With Lipid-Lowering Drugs That Can Cause Myopathy When Given Alone The risk of myopathy is also increased by the following lipid-lowering drugs that are not strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, but which can cause myopathy when given alone. See WARNINGS , Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis. Gemfibrozil Other fibrates Niacin (nicotinic acid) (≥1 g/day) Other drug interactions Cyclosporine: The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased by concomitant administration of cyclosporine (see WARNINGS , Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis ). Danazol, Diltiazem, Dronedarone, or Verapamil: The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased by concomitant administration of danazol, diltiazem, dronedarone or verapamil particularly with higher doses of lovastatin (see WARNINGS , Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis ; CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics ). Amiodarone: The risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis is increased when amiodarone is used concomitantly with a closely related member of the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor class (see WARNINGS , Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis ). Coumarin Anticoagulants: In a small clinical trial in which lovastatin was administered to warfarin treated patients; no effect on prothrombin time was detected. However, another HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor has been found to produce a less than two seconds increase in prothrombin time in healthy volunteers receiving low doses of warfarin. Colchicine: Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with lovastatin coadministered with colchicine. Ranolazine: The risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, may be increased by concomitant administration of ranolazine. Propranolol: In normal volunteers, there was no clinically significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interaction with concomitant administration of single doses of lovastatin and propranolol. Digoxin: In patients with hypercholesterolemia, concomitant administration of lovastatin and digoxin resulted in no effect on digoxin plasma concentrations. Oral Hypoglycemic Agents: In pharmacokinetic studies of lovastatin in hypercholesterolemic non-insulin dependent diabetic patients, there was no drug interaction with glipizide or with chlorpropamide (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Clinical Studies ).

=== ALUMINUM ZIRCONIUM TRICHLOROHYDREX GLY ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antiperspirant purpose Antiperspirant
Indications: Uses Reduces underarm wetness. indications & usage Use reduces underarm wetness
Dosage: For external use only. For external use only dosage & administration Directions apply to underarms only Directions apply to underarms only.
Warnings: Warnings For external use only. Do not use on broken skin. Stop use if rash or irritation occurs. Ask doctor before use if you have kidney disease. For external use only. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Warnings For external use only Do not use on broken skin. For external use only Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. warnings Do not use on broken skin Ask a doctor before use if you have kidney disease Stop use if rash or irritation occurs Keep out of reach of children.

=== DONEPEZIL HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Donepezil hydrochloride tablet is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of dementia of the Alzheimer's type. Efficacy has been demonstrated in patients with mild, moderate, and severe Alzheimer's Disease ( 1 ). Donepezil hydrochloride tablet is indicated for the treatment of dementia of the Alzheimer's type. Efficacy has been demonstrated in patients with mild, moderate, and severe Alzheimer's disease. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Donepezil hydrochloride is indicated for the treatment of dementia of the Alzheimer's type. Donepezil hydrochloride is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of dementia of the Alzheimer's type. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Donepezil hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of dementia of the Alzheimer's type. Donepezil hydrochloride tablets are an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor ‎indicated for the treatment of dementia of the Alzheimer's type. Efficacy has ‎been demonstrated in patients with mild, moderate, and severe Alzheimer's ‎Disease ( 1 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Donepezil hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of dementia of the Alzheimer’s type. Efficacy has been demonstrated in patients with mild, moderate, and severe Alzheimer’s disease. Donepezil is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of dementia of the Alzheimer’s type. Efficacy has been demonstrated in patients with mild, moderate, and severe Alzheimer’s Disease (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Donepezil hydrochloride is indicated for the treatment of dementia of the Alzheimer’s type. Donepezil hydrochloride is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of dementia of the Alzheimer’s type. Efficacy has been demonstrated in patients with mild, moderate, and severe Alzheimer’s Disease ( 1 ) Donepezil hydrochloride tablet, is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of dementia of the Alzheimer’s type. Efficacy has been demonstrated in patients with mild, moderate, and severe Alzheimer’s Disease ( 1 ). Donepezil hydrochloride tablets are acetylcholinesterase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of dementia of the Alzheimer’s type. Donepezil hydrochloride tablet, is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of dementia of the Alzheimer's type. Efficacy has been demonstrated in patients with mild, moderate, and severe Alzheimer's Disease (1) .
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Mild to Moderate Alzheimer's Disease: 5 mg to 10 mg once daily ( 2.1 ) Moderate to Severe Alzheimer's Disease: 10 mg to 23 mg once daily ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Dosing in Mild to Moderate Alzheimer’s Disease The recommended starting dosage of donepezil hydrochloride tablet is 5 mg administered once per day in the evening, just prior to retiring. The maximum recommended dosage of donepezil hydrochloride tablets in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease is 10 mg per day. A dose of 10 mg should not be administered until patients have been on a daily dose of 5 mg for 4 to 6 weeks. 2.2 Dosing in Moderate to Severe Alzheimer’s Disease The recommended starting dosage of donepezil hydrochloride tablet is 5 mg administered once per day in the evening, just prior to retiring. The maximum recommended dosage of donepezil hydrochloride tablets in patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease is 23 mg per day. A dose of 23 mg per day should not be administered until patients have been on a daily dose of 10 mg for at least 3 months. 2.3 Administration Information Donepezil hydrochloride tablets should be taken in the evening, just prior to retiring. Donepezil hydrochloride tablets can be taken with or without food. The donepezil hydrochloride 23 mg tablet should not be split, crushed, or chewed. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Mild to Moderate Alzheimer's disease : 5 mg to 10 mg administered once daily ( 2.1 ) • Moderate to Severe Alzheimer’s Disease : 10 mg administered once daily ( 2.2) 2.1 Dosing in Mild to Moderate Alzheimer's Disease The recommended starting dosage of donepezil hydrochloride is 5 mg administered once per day in the evening, just prior to retiring. The maximum recommended dosage of donepezil hydrochloride in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer’s disease is 10 mg per day. 2.2 Dosing in Moderate to Severe Alzheimer’s Disease The recommended starting dosage of donepezil hydrochloride is 5 mg administered once per day in the evening, just prior to retiring. 2.3 Administration Information Donepezil hydrochloride should be taken in the evening, just prior to retiring. Donepezil hydrochloride can be taken with or without food. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Mild to Moderate Alzheimer's Disease: 5 mg to 10 mg administered once ‎daily ( 2.1 ) • Moderate to Severe Alzheimer's Disease: 10 mg to 23 mg administered ‎once daily ( 2.2) 2.1 Dosing in Mild to Moderate Alzheimer's Disease The recommended starting dosage of donepezil hydrochloride is 5 mg administered once per day in the evening, just prior to retiring. The maximum recommended dosage of donepezil hydrochloride in patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer’s disease is 23 mg per day. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Mild to Moderate Alzheimer’s Disease: 5 mg to 10 mg once daily (2.1) Moderate to Severe Alzheimer’s Disease: 10 mg to 23 mg once daily (2.2) 2.1 Dosing in Mild to Moderate Alzheimer's Disease The recommended starting dosage of donepezil hydrochloride tablets is 5 mg administered once per day in the evening, just prior to retiring. The maximum recommended dosage of donepezil hydrochloride tablets in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer’s disease is 10 mg per day. 2.2 Dosing in Moderate to Severe Alzheimer's Disease The recommended starting dosage of donepezil hydrochloride tablets is 5 mg administered once per day in the evening, just prior to retiring. The maximum recommended dosage of donepezil hydrochloride tablets in patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer’s disease is 23 mg per day. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Mild to Moderate Alzheimer’s Disease: 5 mg to 10 mg once daily ( 2.1 ) Moderate to Severe Alzheimer’s Disease: 10 mg to 23 mg once daily ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Dosing in Mild to Moderate Alzheimer's Disease The recommended starting dosage of donepezil hydrochloride tablets are 5 mg administered once per day in the evening, just prior to retiring. 2.2 Dosing in Moderate to Severe Alzheimer's Disease The recommended starting dosage of donepezil hydrochloride tablets are 5 mg administered once per day in the evening, just prior to retiring. Allow donepezil hydrochloride orally disintegrating tablets to dissolve on the tongue and follow with water. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Mild to Moderate Alzheimer's Disease: 5 mg to 10 mg once ‎daily ( 2.1 )‎ • ‎Moderate to Severe Alzheimer's Disease: 10 mg to 23 mg ‎once daily ( 2.2 )‎ 2.1 Dosing in Mild to Moderate Alzheimer's Disease The recommended starting dosage of donepezil hydrochloride is 5 mg administered once per day in the evening, just prior to retiring. 2.2 Dosing in Moderate to Severe Alzheimer's Disease The recommended starting dosage of donepezil hydrochloride is 5 mg administered once per day in the evening, just prior to retiring. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Mild to Moderate Alzheimer’s Disease: 5 mg to 10 mg once daily ( 2.1 ) Moderate to Severe Alzheimer’s Disease: 10 mg to 23 mg once daily ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Dosing in Mild to Moderate Alzheimer's Disease The recommended starting dosage of donepezil hydrochloride tablet is 5 mg administered once per day in the evening, just prior to retiring. The maximum recommended dosage of donepezil hydrochloride tablet in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer’s disease is 10 mg per day. The maximum recommended dosage of donepezil hydrochloride tablet in patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer’s disease is 23 mg per day. 2.3 Administration Information Donepezil hydrochloride tablet should be taken in the evening, just prior to retiring. Donepezil hydrochloride tablet can be taken with or without food. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Mild to Moderate Alzheimer’s Disease: 5 mg to 10 mg once daily ( 2.1 ) ​Moderate to Severe Alzheimer’s Disease: 10 mg to 23 mg once daily ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Dosing in Mild to Moderate Alzheimer’s Disease The recommended starting dosage of donepezil hydrochloride tablets is 5 mg administered once per day in the evening, just prior to retiring. 2.2 Dosing in Moderate to Severe Alzheimer’s Disease The recommended starting dosage of donepezil hydrochloride tablets is 5 mg administered once per day in the evening, just prior to retiring. 2.1 Dosing in Mild to Moderate Alzheimer’s Disease The recommended starting dosage of donepezil hydrochloride tablets is 5 mg administered once per day in the evening, just prior to retiring. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Mild to Moderate Alzheimer's Disease: 5 mg to 10 mg once daily (2.1) Moderate to Severe Alzheimer's Disease: 10 mg to 23 mg once daily (2.2) 2.1 Dosing in Mild to Moderate Alzheimer's Disease The recommended starting dosage of donepezil hydrochloride tablet is 5 mg administered once per day in the evening, just prior to retiring.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to donepezil hydrochloride or to piperidine derivatives ( 4 ) Donepezil hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to donepezil hydrochloride or to piperidine derivatives. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Donepezil hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to donepezil hydrochloride or to piperidine derivatives. Known hypersensitivity to donepezil hydrochloride or to piperidine derivatives ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to donepezil hydrochloride or to piperidine ‎derivatives ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Donepezil hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to donepezil hydrochloride or to piperidine derivatives. Known hypersensitivity to donepezil hydrochloride or to piperidine derivatives (4) Known hypersensitivity to donepezil hydrochloride or to piperidine ‎derivatives ( 4 )‎
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Cholinesterase inhibitors have the potential to interfere with the activity of anticholinergic medications ( 7.1 ). A synergistic effect may be expected with concomitant administration of succinylcholine, similar neuromuscular blocking agents, or cholinergic agonists ( 7.2 ). 7.1 Use with Anticholinergics Because of their mechanism of action, cholinesterase inhibitors have the potential to interfere with the activity of anticholinergic medications. 7.2 Use with Cholinomimetics and Other Cholinesterase Inhibitors A synergistic effect may be expected when cholinesterase inhibitors are given concurrently with succinylcholine, similar neuromuscular blocking agents, or cholinergic agonists such as bethanechol. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Cholinesterase inhibitors have the potential to interfere with the activity of anticholinergic medications ( 7.1 ). • A synergistic effect may be expected with concomitant administration of succinylcholine, similar neuromuscular blocking agents, or cholinergic agonists ( 7.2 ). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Cholinesterase inhibitors have the potential to interfere with the activity of ‎anticholinergic medications ( 7.1 ). • A synergistic effect may be expected with concomitant administration of ‎succinylcholine, similar neuromuscular blocking agents, or cholinergic ‎agonists ( 7.2 ). 7.2 Use with Cholinomimetics and Other Cholinesterase Inhibitors A synergistic effect may be expected when cholinesterase inhibitors are given concurrently with succinylcholine, similar neuromuscular blocking agents or cholinergic agonists such as bethanechol. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Cholinesterase inhibitors have the potential to interfere with the activity of anticholinergic medications (7.1) A synergistic effect may be expected with concomitant administration of succinylcholine, similar neuromuscular blocking agents, or cholinergic agonists (7.2) 7.1 Use with Anticholinergics Because of their mechanism of action, cholinesterase inhibitors have the potential to interfere with the activity of anticholinergic medications. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Cholinesterase inhibitors have the potential to interfere with the activity of anticholinergic medications ( 7.1 ) A synergistic effect may be expected with concomitant administration of succinylcholine, similar neuromuscular blocking agents, or cholinergic agonists ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Use with Anticholinergics Because of their mechanism of action, cholinesterase inhibitors have the potential to interfere with the activity of anticholinergic medications. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Cholinesterase inhibitors have the potential to interfere with the activity of ‎anticholinergic medications ( 7.1 )‎ • ‎A synergistic effect may be expected with concomitant administration of ‎succinylcholine, similar neuromuscular blocking agents, or cholinergic ‎agonists ( 7.2 )‎ 7.1 Use with Anticholinergics Because of their mechanism of action, cholinesterase inhibitors have the potential to interfere with the activity of anticholinergic medications. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Cholinesterase inhibitors have the potential to interfere with the activity of anticholinergic medications (7.1) . A synergistic effect may be expected with concomitant administration of succinylcholine, similar neuromuscular blocking agents, or cholinergic agonists (7.2) .

=== FLUOXETINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluoxetine is indicated for the treatment of: Acute and maintenance treatment of Major Depressive Disorder [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Acute and maintenance treatment of obsessions and compulsions in patients with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Acute and maintenance treatment of binge-eating and vomiting behaviors in patients with moderate to severe Bulimia Nervosa [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . Acute treatment of Panic Disorder, with or without agoraphobia [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . Fluoxetine and Olanzapine in Combination is indicated for the treatment of: Acute treatment of depressive episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder. Fluoxetine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder. When using Fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . Fluoxetine capsules are a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor indicated for: Acute and maintenance treatment of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) ( 1 ) Acute and maintenance treatment of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) ( 1 ) Acute and maintenance treatment of Bulimia Nervosa ( 1 ) Acute treatment of Panic Disorder, with or without agoraphobia ( 1 ) Fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination for treatment of: Acute Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 1 ) Treatment resistant depression (Major Depressive Disorder in patients, who do not respond to 2 separate trials of different antidepressants of adequate dose and duration in the current episode). Fluoxetine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder or the treatment of treatment resistant depression. Fluoxetine capsules are a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor indicated for: Acute and maintenance treatment of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) ( 1 ) Acute and maintenance treatment of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) ( 1 ) Acute and maintenance treatment of Bulimia Nervosa ( 1 ) Acute treatment of Panic Disorder, with or without agoraphobia ( 1 ) Fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination for treatment of: Acute Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 1 ) Treatment Resistant Depression ( 1 ) Fluoxetine is indicated for the treatment of: Acute and maintenance treatment of Major Depressive Disorder [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.1)] . Acute and maintenance treatment of obsessions and compulsions in patients with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.2)] . Acute and maintenance treatment of binge-eating and vomiting behaviors in patients with moderate to severe Bulimia Nervosa [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.3)] . Acute treatment of Panic Disorder, with or without agoraphobia [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.4)] . When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax ®. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Fluoxetine capsules are indicated for the treatment of: • Acute and maintenance treatment of Major Depressive Disorder [ see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. • Acute and maintenance treatment of obsessions and compulsions in patients with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) [ see Clinical Studies (14.2 )]. • Acute and maintenance treatment of binge-eating and vomiting behaviors in patients with moderate to severe Bulimia Nervosa [ see Clinical Studies (14.3 )]. • Acute treatment of Panic Disorder, with or without agoraphobia [ see Clinical Studies (14.4 ) ]. Fluoxetine capsules and Olanzapine in Combination is indicated for the treatment of: • Acute treatment of depressive episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder. • Treatment Resistant Depression (Major Depressive Disorder in patient, who do not respond to 2 separate trials of different antidepressants of adequate dose and duration in the current episode). Fluoxetine capsules monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder or the treatment of treatment resistant depression. When using fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . Fluoxetine capsules are a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor indicated for: • Acute and maintenance treatment of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) ( 1 ) • Acute and maintenance treatment of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) ( 1 ) • Acute and maintenance treatment of Bulimia Nervosa ( 1 ) • Acute treatment of Panic Disorder, with or without agoraphobia ( 1 ) Fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination for treatment of: • Acute Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 1 ) • Treatment Resistant Depression (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluoxetine capsules are indicated for the treatment of: • Acute and maintenance treatment of Major Depressive Disorder [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . • Acute and maintenance treatment of obsessions and compulsions in patients with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . • Acute and maintenance treatment of binge-eating and vomiting behaviors in patients with moderate to severe Bulimia Nervosa [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . • Acute treatment of Panic Disorder, with or without agoraphobia [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . Fluoxetine capsules and Olanzapine in Combination are indicated for the treatment of: • Acute treatment of depressive episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder. • Treatment resistant depression (Major Depressive Disorder in patients, who do not respond to 2 separate trials of different antidepressants of adequate dose and duration in the current episode). Fluoxetine capsules are a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor indicated for: • Acute and maintenance treatment of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) ( 1 ) • Acute and maintenance treatment of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) ( 1 ) • Acute and maintenance treatment of Bulimia Nervosa ( 1 ) • Acute treatment of Panic Disorder, with or without agoraphobia ( 1 ) Fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination for treatment of: • Acute Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 1 ) • Treatment Resistant Depression ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluoxetine capsules are indicated for the treatment of: Acute and maintenance treatment of Major Depressive Disorder [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Acute and maintenance treatment of obsessions and compulsions in patients with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. Acute and maintenance treatment of binge-eating and vomiting behaviors in patients with moderate to severe Bulimia Nervosa [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . Acute treatment of Panic Disorder, with or without agoraphobia [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )]. Fluoxetine capsules and Olanzapine in Combination are indicated for the treatment of: Acute treatment of depressive episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluoxetine capsules are indicated for the treatment of: Acute and maintenance treatment of Major Depressive Disorder [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluoxetine is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor indicated for: Acute and maintenance treatment of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) in adult and pediatric patients aged 8 to 18 years. ( 1.1 ) Acute and maintenance treatment of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) in adults and pediatric patients aged 7 to 17 years. ( 1.2 ) Acute and maintenance treatment of Bulimia Nervosa in adult patients. ( 1.3 ) Acute treatment of Panic Disorder, with or without agoraphobia, in adult patients. ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Major Depressive Disorder Fluoxetine tablets are indicated for the acute and maintenance treatment of Major Depressive Disorder in adult patients and in pediatric patients aged 8 to 18 years [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . The usefulness of the drug in adult and pediatric patients receiving fluoxetine tablets for extended periods should periodically be re-evaluated [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . 1.2 Obsessive Compulsive Disorder Fluoxetine tablets are indicated for the acute and maintenance treatment of obsessions and compulsions in adult patients and in pediatric patients aged 7 to 17 years with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . The effectiveness of fluoxetine tablets in long-term use, i.e., for more than 13 weeks, has not been systematically evaluated in placebo-controlled trials. Therefore, the physician who elects to use fluoxetine tablets for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] . 1.3 Bulimia Nervosa Fluoxetine tablets are indicated for the acute and maintenance treatment of binge-eating and vomiting behaviors in adult patients with moderate to severe Bulimia Nervosa [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . The physician who elects to use fluoxetine tablets for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . 1.4 Panic Disorder Fluoxetine tablets are indicated for the acute treatment of Panic Disorder, with or without agoraphobia, in adult patients [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . The effectiveness of fluoxetine tablets in long-term use, i.e., for more than 12 weeks, has not been established in placebo-controlled trials. Therefore, the physician who elects to use fluoxetine tablets for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] .
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Adult Pediatric MDD ( 2.1 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 to 20 mg/day (initial dose) OCD ( 2.2 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Bulimia Nervosa ( 2.3 ) 60 mg/day in am Panic Disorder ( 2.4 ) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 2.5 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) A lower or less frequent dosage should be used in patients with hepatic impairment, the elderly, and for patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications ( 2.7 ) Fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination: Dosage adjustments should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability ( 2.5 ) Fluoxetine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 2.5 ) Safety of the coadministration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in adults. ( 2.5 ) Safety of the coadministration of doses above 12 mg olanzapine with 50 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in children and adolescents ages 10 to 17 ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Initial Treatment Adult — Initiate fluoxetine 20 mg/day orally in the morning. Consider a dose increase after several weeks if insufficient clinical improvement is observed. Administer doses above 20 mg/day once daily in the morning or twice daily (i.e., morning and noon). The maximum fluoxetine dose should not exceed 80 mg/day. In controlled trials used to support the efficacy of fluoxetine, patients were administered morning doses ranging from 20 to 80 mg/day. Studies comparing fluoxetine 20, 40, and 60 mg/day to placebo indicate that 20 mg/day is sufficient to obtain a satisfactory response in Major Depressive Disorder in most cases [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Pediatric (children and adolescents) — Initiate Fluoxetine 10 or 20 mg/day. After 1 week at 10 mg/day, increase the dose to 20 mg/day. However, due to higher plasma levels in lower weight children, the starting and target dose in this group may be 10 mg/day. Consider a dose increase to 20 mg/day after several weeks if insufficient clinical improvement is observed. In the short-term (8 to 9 week) controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Major Depressive Disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine doses of 10 to 20 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . All patients — As with other drugs effective in the treatment of Major Depressive Disorder, the full effect may be delayed until 4 weeks of treatment or longer. Periodically reassess to determine the need for maintenance treatment. Switching Patients to a Tricyclic Antidepressant (TCA) — Dosage of a TCA may need to be reduced, and plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored temporarily when fluoxetine is coadministered or has been recently discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Drug Interactions (7.7) ] . 2.2 Obsessive Compulsive Disorder Initial Treatment Adult — Initiate fluoxetine 20 mg/day, orally in the morning. The full therapeutic effect may be delayed until 5 weeks of treatment or longer. A dose range of 20 to 60 mg/day is recommended; however, doses of up to 80 mg/day have been well tolerated in open studies of OCD. In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fixed daily doses of 20, 40, or 60 mg of fluoxetine or placebo [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . In one of these studies, no dose-response relationship for effectiveness was demonstrated. Pediatric (children and adolescents) — In adolescents and higher weight children, initiate treatment with a dose of 10 mg/day. After 2 weeks, increase the dose to 20 mg/day. Consider additional dose increases after several more weeks if insufficient clinical improvement is observed. A dose range of 20 to 60 mg/day is recommended. In lower weight children, initiate treatment with a dose of 10 mg/day. A dose range of 20 to 30 mg/day is recommended. Experience with daily doses greater than 20 mg is very minimal, and there is no experience with doses greater than 60 mg. In the controlled clinical trial of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fluoxetine doses in the range of 10 to 60 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Periodically reassess to determine the need for treatment. 2.3 Bulimia Nervosa Initial Treatment — Administer fluoxetine 60 mg/day in the morning. For some patients it may be advisable to titrate up to this target dose over several days. Fluoxetine doses above 60 mg/day have not been systematically studied in patients with bulimia. In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Bulimia Nervosa, patients were administered fixed daily fluoxetine doses of 20 or 60 mg, or placebo [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . Only the 60 mg dose was statistically significantly superior to placebo in reducing the frequency of binge-eating and vomiting. 2.4 Panic Disorder Initial Treatment — Initiate treatment with fluoxetine 10 mg/day. After one week, increase the dose to 20 mg/day. Consider a dose increase after several weeks if no clinical improvement is observed. Fluoxetine doses above 60 mg/day have not been systematically evaluated in patients with Panic Disorder. In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Panic Disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine doses in the range of 10 to 60 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . The most frequently administered dose in the 2 flexible-dose clinical trials was 20 mg/day. Periodically reassess to determine the need for continued treatment. 2.5 Fluoxetine and Olanzapine in Combination: Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax. Adult — Administer fluoxetine in combination with oral olanzapine once daily in the evening, without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. Make dosage adjustments, if indicated, according to efficacy and tolerability within dose ranges of fluoxetine 20 to 50 mg and oral olanzapine 5 to 12.5 mg. Antidepressant efficacy was demonstrated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination with a dose range of olanzapine 6 to 12 mg and fluoxetine 25 to 50 mg. Safety of co-administration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in clinical studies. Periodically re-examine the need for continued pharmacotherapy. Children and adolescents (10-17 years of age) — Administer olanzapine and fluoxetine combination once daily in the evening, generally beginning with 2.5 mg of olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. Make dosage adjustments, if indicated, according to efficacy and tolerability. Safety of co-administration of doses above 12 mg of olanzapine with 50 mg of fluoxetine has not been evaluated in pediatric clinical studies. Safety and efficacy of fluoxetine in combination with olanzapine was determined in clinical trials supporting approval of Symbyax (fixed-dose combination of olanzapine and fluoxetine). Symbyax is dosed between 3 mg/25 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day and 12 mg/50 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day. The following table demonstrates the appropriate individual component doses of fluoxetine and olanzapine versus Symbyax. Adjust dosage, if indicated, with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability. Table 1: Approximate Dose Correspondence Between Symbyax 1 and the Combination of Fluoxetine and Olanzapine For Symbyax (mg/day) Use in Combination Olanzapine (mg/day) Fluoxetine (mg/day) 1 Symbyax (olanzapine/fluoxetine HCL) is a fixed-dose combination of fluoxetine and olanzapine. 3 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 5 20 12 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 5 40+10 12 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 40+10 Fluoxetine capsules monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder. 2.7 Dosing in Specific Populations Treatment of Pregnant Women — When treating pregnant women with fluoxetine, the physician should carefully consider the potential risks and potential benefits of treatment. Neonates exposed to SSRIs or SNRIs late in the third trimester have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization, respiratory support, and tube feeding [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ]. Geriatric — Consider a lower or less frequent dosage for the elderly [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ]. Hepatic Impairment — As with many other medications, use a lower or less frequent dosage in patients with hepatic impairment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. Concomitant Illness — Patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications may require dosage adjustments [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. Fluoxetine capsules and Olanzapine in Combination — Use a starting dose of oral olanzapine 2.5 to 5 mg with fluoxetine 20 mg for patients with a predisposition to hypotensive reactions, patients with hepatic impairment, or patients who exhibit a combination of factors that may slow the metabolism of olanzapine or fluoxetine in combination (female gender, geriatric age, non-smoking status), or those patients who may be pharmacodynamically sensitive to olanzapine. Titrate slowly and adjust dosage as needed in patients who exhibit a combination of factors that may slow metabolism. Fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination have not been systematically studied in patients over 65 years of age or in patients less than 10 years of age [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16) and Drug Interactions (7.7) ] . 2.8 Discontinuation of Treatment Symptoms associated with discontinuation of fluoxetine, SNRIs, and SSRIs, have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15) ]. 2.9 Switching a Patient To or From a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with fluoxetine. Conversely, at least 5 weeks should be allowed after stopping fluoxetine before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications (4.1) ]. 2.10 Use of Fluoxetine with Other MAOIs such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start fluoxetine in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see Contraindications (4.1) ]. In some cases, a patient already receiving fluoxetine therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, fluoxetine should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. The patient should be monitored for symptoms of serotonin syndrome for five weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, whichever comes first. Therapy with fluoxetine may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with fluoxetine is unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Adult Pediatric MDD ( 2.1 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 to 20 mg/day (initial dose) OCD ( 2.2 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Bulimia Nervosa ( 2.3 ) 60 mg/day in am Panic Disorder ( 2.4 ) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 2.5 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) Treatment Resistant Depression ( 2.6 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) A lower or less frequent dosage should be used in patients with hepatic impairment, the elderly, and for patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications ( 2.7 ) Fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination: Dosage adjustments should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Fluoxetine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder or treatment resistant depression ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Safety of the coadministration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in adults ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Safety of the coadministration of doses above 12 mg olanzapine with 50 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in children and adolescents ages 10 to 17 ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Initial Treatment Adult — Initiate fluoxetine 20 mg/day orally in the morning. In controlled trials used to support the efficacy of fluoxetine, patients were administered morning doses ranging from 20 mg/day to 80 mg/day. Studies comparing fluoxetine 20 mg/day, 40 mg/day, and 60 mg/day to placebo indicate that 20 mg/day is sufficient to obtain a satisfactory response in Major Depressive Disorder in most cases [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Pediatric (children and adolescents) — Initiate Fluoxetine 10 mg/day or 20 mg/day. In the short-term (8 to 9 week) controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Major Depressive Disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine doses of 10 to 20 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Switching Patients to a Tricyclic Antidepressant (TCA) — Dosage of a TCA may need to be reduced, and plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored temporarily when fluoxetine is coadministered or has been recently discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Drug Interactions (7.7) ]. A dose range of 20 mg/day to 60 mg/day is recommended; however, doses of up to 80 mg/day have been well tolerated in open studies of OCD. In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fixed daily doses of 20 mg, 40 mg, or 60 mg of fluoxetine or placebo [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. After 2 weeks, increase the dose to 20mg/day. A dose range of 20 mg/day to 60 mg/day is recommended. A dose range of 20 mg/day to 30 mg/day is recommended. In the controlled clinical trial of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fluoxetine doses in the range of 10 mg/day to 60 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Make dosage adjustments, if indicated, according to efficacy and tolerability within dose ranges of fluoxetine 20 mg to 50 mg and oral olanzapine 5 mg to 12.5 mg. Antidepressant efficacy was demonstrated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination with a dose range of olanzapine 6 mg to 12 mg and fluoxetine 25 to 50 mg. 2.6 Fluoxetine and Olanzapine in Combination: Treatment Resistant Depression When using Fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax. Administer fluoxetine in combination with oral olanzapine once daily in the evening, without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. Adjust dosage, if indicated, according to efficacy and tolerability within dose ranges of fluoxetine 20 to 50 mg and oral olanzapine 5 mg to 20 mg. Antidepressant efficacy was demonstrated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination with a dose range of olanzapine 6 mg to 18 mg and fluoxetine 25 mg to 50 mg. Safety and efficacy of fluoxetine in combination with olanzapine was determined in clinical trials supporting approval of Symbyax (fixed dose combination of olanzapine and fluoxetine). Table 1 demonstrates the appropriate individual component doses of fluoxetine and olanzapine versus Symbyax. Safety of coadministration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in clinical studies. Fluoxetine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of treatment resistant depression (Major Depressive Disorder in patients who do not respond to 2 antidepressants of adequate dose and duration in the current episode). 2.7 Dosing in Specific Populations Geriatric — Consider a lower or less frequent dosage for the elderly [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ] . Hepatic Impairment — As with many other medications, use a lower or less frequent dosage in patients with hepatic impairment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . Concomitant Illness — Patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications may require dosage adjustments [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . Fluoxetine and Olanzapine in Combination — Use a starting dose of oral olanzapine 2.5 mg to 5 mg with fluoxetine 20 mg for patients with a predisposition to hypotensive reactions, patients with hepatic impairment, or patients who exhibit a combination of factors that may slow the metabolism of olanzapine or fluoxetine in combination (female gender, geriatric age, non-smoking status), or those patients who may be pharmacodynamically sensitive to olanzapine. The healthcare provider should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Initial Treatment Adult — Initiate fluoxetine 20 mg/day orally in the morning. Studies comparing fluoxetine 20 mg/day, 40 mg/day, and 60 mg/day to placebo indicate that 20 mg/day is sufficient to obtain a satisfactory response in Major Depressive Disorder in most cases [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.1)]. In the short-term (8 to 9 week) controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Major Depressive Disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine doses of 10 to 20 mg/day [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.1)]. Switching Patients to a Tricyclic Antidepressant (TCA) — Dosage of a TCA may need to be reduced, and plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored temporarily when fluoxetine is coadministered or has been recently discontinued [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2) and DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.7)]. In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fixed daily doses of 20 mg, 40 mg, or 60 mg of fluoxetine or placebo [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.2)]. In the controlled clinical trial of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fluoxetine doses in the range of 10 mg/day to 60 mg/day [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.2)]. In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Bulimia Nervosa, patients were administered fixed daily fluoxetine doses of 20 or 60 mg, or placebo [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.3)] . In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Panic Disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine doses in the range of 10 to 60 mg/day [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.4)] . Table 1: Approximate Dose Correspondence Between Symbyax 1 and the Combination of Fluoxetine and Olanzapine For Symbyax (mg/day) Use in Combination Olanzapine (mg/day) Fluoxetine (mg/day) 1Symbyax (olanzapine/fluoxetine HCL) is a fixed-dose combination of fluoxetine and olanzapine. 2.7 Dosing in Specific Populations Geriatric — Consider a lower or less frequent dosage for the elderly [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS (8.5)] . Hepatic Impairment — As with many other medications, use a lower or less frequent dosage in patients with hepatic impairment [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.4) and USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS (8.6)] . Concomitant Illness — Patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications may require dosage adjustments [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.4) and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.12)] . Fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination have not been systematically studied in patients over 65 years of age or in patients less than 10 years of age [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.16) and DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.7)] . 2.8 Discontinuation of Treatment Symptoms associated with discontinuation of fluoxetine, SNRIs, and SSRIs, have been reported [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.15)]. Conversely, at least 5 weeks should be allowed after stopping fluoxetine before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4.1)]. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4.1)]. Therapy with fluoxetine may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2)]. The healthcare provider should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2)] . 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Indication Adult Pediatric MDD ( 2.1 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose ) 10 to 20 mg/day (initial dose ) OCD ( 2.2 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose ) 10 mg/day (initial dose ) Bulimia Nervosa ( 2.3 ) 60 mg/day in am Panic Disorder ( 2.4 ) 10 mg/day (initial dose ) Depressive Episode s Associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 2.5 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine : 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) Treatment Resistant Depression ( 2.6 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) • A lower or less frequent dosage should be used in patients with hepatic impairment, the elderly, and for patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications ( 2.7 ) Fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination: • Dosage adjustments should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) • Fluoxetine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder or treatment resistant depression ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) • Safety of the coadministration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in adults ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) • Safety of the coadministration of doses above 12 mg olanzapine with 50 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in children and adolescents ages 10 to 17 ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Initial Treatment Adult - Initiate fluoxetine capsules 20 mg/day orally in the morning. Studies comparing fluoxetine 20, 40, and 60 mg/day to placebo indicate that 20 mg/day is sufficient to obtain a satisfactory response in Major Depressive Disorder in most cases [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Pediatric (children and adolescents) - Initiate fluoxetine capsules 10 or 20 mg/day. In the short-term (8 to 9 week) controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Major Depressive Disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine doses of 10 to 20 mg/day [ see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. All patients - As with other drugs effective in the treatment of Major Depressive Disorder, the full effect may be delayed until 4 weeks of treatment or longer. Switching Patients to a Tricyclic Antidepressant (TCA) - Dosage of a TCA may need to be reduced, and plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored temporarily when fluoxetine is coadministered or has been recently discontinued [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Drug Interactions (7.7) ]. 2.2 Obsessive Compulsive Disorder Initial Treatment Adult - Initiate fluoxetine capsules 20 mg/day, orally in the morning. In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fixed daily doses of 20, 40, or 60 mg of fluoxetine or placebo [ see Clinical Studies (14.2 )]. Pediatric (children and adolescents ) — In adolescents and higher weight children, initiate treatment with a dose of 10 mg/day. In the controlled clinical trial of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fluoxetine doses in the range of 10 to 60 mg/day [ see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 2.3 Bulimia Nervosa Initial Treatment - Administer fluoxetine capsules 60 mg/day in the morning. In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Bulimia Nervosa, patients were administered fixed daily fluoxetine doses of 20 or 60 mg, or placebo [ see Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. 2.4 Panic Disorder Initial Treatment - Initiate treatment with fluoxetine capsules 10 mg/day. In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Panic Disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine doses in the range of 10 to 60 mg/day [ see Clinical Studies (14.4 )]. Adult —Administer fluoxetine in combination with oral olanzapine once daily in the evening, without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. Children and adolescents (10 to 17 years of age) — Administer olanzapine and fluoxetine combination once daily in the evening, generally beginning with 2.5 mg of olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. Table 1: Approximate Dose Correspondence between Symbyax 1 and the Combination of Fluoxetine and Olanzapine For Symbyax (mg/day) Use in Combination Olanzapine (mg/day) Fluoxetine(mg/day) 3 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 5 20 12 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 5 40+10 12 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 40+10 1 Symbyax (olanzapine/fluoxetine HCL) is a fixed-dose combination of fluoxetine and olanzapine. Fluoxetine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder. Administer fluoxetine in combination with oral olanzapine once daily in the evening, without regard to meals, generally beginning with 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20mg of fluoxetine. Adjust dosage, if indicated, according to efficacy to tolerability within dose ranges of fluoxetine 20 to 50 mg and oral olanzapine 5 to 20 mg. Antidepressant efficacy was demonstrated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination with a dose range of olanzapine 6 to 18 mg and fluoxetine 25 to 50 mg. Symbyaxis dosed between 3 mg/25 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day and 12 mg/50 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day. Periodically re-examine the need for continued pharmacotherapy Safety of co administration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in clinical studies. Fluoxetine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of treatment resistant depression (Major Depressive Disorder in patient, who do not respond to 2 separate anti depressants of adequate dose and duration in the current episode). 2.7 Dosing in Specific Populations Geriatric - Consider a lower or less frequent dosage for the elderly [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)]. Hepatic Impairment — As with many other medications, use a lower or less frequent dosage in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]. Concomitant Illness — Patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications may require dosage adjustments [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.12)]. Fluoxetine and Olanzapine in Combination — Use a starting dose of oral olanzapine 2.5 to 5 mg with fluoxetine 20 mg for patients with a predisposition to hypotensive reactions, patients with hepatic impairment, or patients who exhibit a combination of factors that may slow the metabolism of olanzapine or fluoxetine in combination (female gender, geriatric age, non-smoking status), or those patients who may be pharmacodynamically sensitive to olanzapine. Fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination have not been systematically studied in patients over 65 years of age or in patients less than 10 years of age [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.16) and Drug Interactions (7.7)]. 2.8 Discontinuation of Treatment Symptoms associated with discontinuation of fluoxetine, SNRIs, and SSRIs, have been reported [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)]. Conversely, at least 5 weeks should be allowed after stopping fluoxetine before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [ see Contraindications (4.1)]. 2.10 Use of Fluoxetine with Other MAOIs such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start fluoxetine capsules in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [ see Contraindications (4.1 )]. In some cases, a patient already receiving fluoxetine capsules therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, fluoxetine capsules should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. Therapy with fluoxetine capsules may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with fluoxetine capsules is unclear. The healthcare provider should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Adult Pediatric MDD ( 2.1 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 to 20 mg/day (initial dose) OCD ( 2.2 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Bulimia Nervosa ( 2.3 ) 60 mg/day in am Panic Disorder ( 2.4 ) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 2.5 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) Treatment Resistant Depression ( 2.6 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) • A lower or less frequent dosage should be used in patients with hepatic impairment, the elderly, and for patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications ( 2.7 ) Fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination: • Dosage adjustments should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) • Fluoxetine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder or treatment resistant depression ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) • Safety of the coadministration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in adults ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) • Safety of the coadministration of doses above 12 mg olanzapine with 50 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in children and adolescents ages 10 to 17 ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Initial Treatment Adult — Initiate fluoxetine capsules 20 mg/day orally in the morning. Pediatric (children and adolescents) — Initiate fluoxetine capsules 10 or 20 mg/day. 2.2 Obsessive Compulsive Disorder Initial Treatment Adult — Initiate fluoxetine capsules 20 mg/day, orally in the morning. 2.3 Bulimia Nervosa Initial Treatment — Administer fluoxetine capsules 60 mg/day in the morning. 2.4 Panic Disorder Initial Treatment — Initiate treatment with fluoxetine capsules 10 mg/day. 2.5 Fluoxetine Capsules and Olanzapine in Combination: Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder When using fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax . The following table demonstrates the appropriate individual component doses of fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine versus Symbyax. Table 1: Approximate Dose Correspondence Between Symbyax 1 and the Combination of Fluoxetine and Olanzapine 1 Symbyax (olanzapine/fluoxetine hydrochloride) is a fixed-dose combination of fluoxetine and olanzapine. For Symbyax (mg/day) Use in Combination Olanzapine (mg/day) Fluoxetine (mg/day) 3 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 5 20 12 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 5 40+10 12 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 40+10 Fluoxetine capsules monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of depressive episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder. 2.6 Fluoxetine Capsules and Olanzapine in Combination: Treatment Resistant Depression When using fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax. Adjust dosage, if indicated, according to efficacy and tolerability within dose ranges of fluoxetine 20 to 50 mg and oral olanzapine 5 to 20 mg. Table 1 demonstrates the appropriate individual component doses of fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine versus Symbyax. Fluoxetine capsules monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of treatment resistant depression (Major Depressive Disorder in patients who do not respond to 2 antidepressants of adequate dose and duration in the current episode). 2.7 Dosing in Specific Populations Geriatric — Consider a lower or less frequent dosage for the elderly [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ]. Fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination have not been systematically studied in patients over 65 years of age or in patients less than 10 years of age [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16) and Drug Interactions (7.7) ] . 2.9 Switching a Patient To or From a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with fluoxetine capsules. Conversely, at least 5 weeks should be allowed after stopping fluoxetine capsules before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [ see Contraindications (4.1) ]. 2.10 Use of Fluoxetine Capsules with Other MAOIs such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start fluoxetine capsules in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. Therapy with fluoxetine capsules may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Adult Pediatric MDD ( 2.1 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 to 20 mg/day (initial dose) OCD ( 2.2 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Bulimia Nervosa ( 2.3 ) 60 mg/day in am Panic Disorder ( 2.4 ) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 2.5 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg off luoxetine once daily (initial dose) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) Treatment Resistant Depression ( 2.6 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) A lower or less frequent dosage should be used in patients with hepatic impairment, the elderly, and for patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications ( 2.7 ) Fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination: Dosage adjustments should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Fluoxetine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder or treatment resistant depression ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Safety of the coadministration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in adults ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Safety of the coadministration of doses above 12 mg olanzapine with 50 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in children and adolescents ages 10 to 17 ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Initial Treatment Adult — Initiate fluoxetine 20 mg/day orally in the morning. In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Bulimia Nervosa, patients were administered fixed daily fluoxetine doses of 20 mg or 60 mg, or placebo [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Panic Disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine doses in the range of 10 mg/day to 60 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . Antidepressant efficacy was demonstrated with olanzapine and fluoxetine in combination with a dose range of olanzapine 6 mg to 12 mg and fluoxetine 25 mg to 50 mg. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Adult Pediatric MDD ( 2.1 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 to 20 mg/day (initial dose) OCD ( 2.2 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Bulimia Nervosa ( 2.3 ) 60 mg/day in am Panic Disorder (2.4) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 2.5 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) Treatment Resistant Depression ( 2.6 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) A lower or less frequent dosage should be used in patients with hepatic impairment, the elderly, and for patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications (2.7) Fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination: Dosage adjustments should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Fluoxetine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder or treatment resistant depression ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Safety of the coadministration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in adults ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Safety of the coadministration of doses above 12 mg olanzapine with 50 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in children and adolescents ages 10 to 17 (2.5) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Initial Treatment Adult — Initiate fluoxetine 20 mg/day orally in the morning. Studies comparing fluoxetine 20, 40, and 60 mg/day to placebo indicate that 20 mg/day is sufficient to obtain a satisfactory response in Major Depressive Disorder in most cases [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . In the short-term (8 to 9 week) controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Major Depressive Disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine doses of 10 to 20 mg/day [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Switching Patients to a Tricyclic Antidepressant (TCA) — Dosage of a TCA may need to be reduced, and plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored temporarily when fluoxetine is coadministered or has been recently discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.7 )] . In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fixed daily doses of 20, 40, or 60 mg of fluoxetine or placebo [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . In the controlled clinical trial of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fluoxetine doses in the range of 10 to 60 mg/day [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Bulimia Nervosa, patients were administered fixed daily fluoxetine doses of 20 or 60 mg, or placebo [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Panic Disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine doses in the range of 10 to 60 mg/day [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )] . 2.5 Fluoxetine and Olanzapine in Combination: Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . Safety and efficacy of fluoxetine in combination with olanzapine was determined in clinical trials supporting approval of Symbyax ® (fixed-dose combination of olanzapine and fluoxetine). Symbyax ® is dosed between 3 mg/25 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day and 12 mg/50 mg (olanzapine/fluoxetine) per day. The following table demonstrates the appropriate individual component doses of fluoxetine and olanzapine versus Symbyax ® . Table 1: Approximate Dose Correspondence Between Symbyax ® 1 and the Combination of Fluoxetine and Olanzapine For Symbyax ® (mg/day) Use in Combination Olanzapine (mg/day) Fluoxetine (mg/day) 3 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 5 20 12 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 20 6 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 5 40+10 12 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine 10+2.5 40+10 1 Symbyax ® (olanzapine/fluoxetine HCL) is a fixed-dose combination of fluoxetine and olanzapine. 2.6 Fluoxetine and Olanzapine in Combination: Treatment Resistant Depression When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Clinical Studies section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . Safety and efficacy of fluoxetine in combination with olanzapine was determined in clinical trials supporting approval of Symbyax ® (fixed dose combination of olanzapine and fluoxetine). Table 1 demonstrates the appropriate individual component doses of fluoxetine and olanzapine versus Symbyax ® . 2.7 Dosing in Specific Populations Geriatric — Consider a lower or less frequent dosage for the elderly [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 )] . Hepatic Impairment — As with many other medications, use a lower or less frequent dosage in patients with hepatic impairment [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . Concomitant Illness — Patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications may require dosage adjustments [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] . Fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination have not been systematically studied in patients over 65 years of age or in patients less than 10 years of age [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.16 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.7 )] . 2.8 Discontinuation of Treatment Symptoms associated with discontinuation of fluoxetine, SNRIs, and SSRIs, have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.15 )] . Conversely, at least 5 weeks should be allowed after stopping fluoxetine before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications ( 4.1 )] . In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see Contraindications ( 4.1 )] . Therapy with fluoxetine may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . The healthcare provider should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Adult Pediatric MDD ( 2.1 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 to 20 mg/day (initial dose) OCD ( 2.2 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Bulimia Nervosa ( 2.3 ) 60 mg/day in am Panic Disorder ( 2.4 ) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder ( 2.5 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 2.5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) Treatment Resistant Depression ( 2.6 ) Oral in combination with olanzapine: 5 mg of oral olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine once daily (initial dose) A lower or less frequent dosage should be used in patients with hepatic impairment, the elderly, and for patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications ( 2.7 ) Fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination: Dosage adjustments should be made with the individual components according to efficacy and tolerability ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Fluoxetine monotherapy is not indicated for the treatment of Depressive Episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder or treatment resistant depression ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Safety of the coadministration of doses above 18 mg olanzapine with 75 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in adults ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) Safety of the coadministration of doses above 12 mg olanzapine with 50 mg fluoxetine has not been evaluated in children and adolescents ages 10 to 17 ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Initial Treatment Adult — Initiate fluoxetine capsules 20 mg/day orally in the morning. Children and adolescents (10 to 17 years of age ) — Administer olanzapine and fluoxetine combination once daily in the evening, generally beginning with 2.5 mg of olanzapine and 20 mg of fluoxetine. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Adult Pediatric MDD ( 2.1 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 to 20 mg/day (initial dose) OCD ( 2.2 ) 20 mg/day in am (initial dose) 10 mg/day (initial dose) Bulimia Nervosa ( 2.3 ) 60 mg/day in am - Panic Disorder ( 2.4 ) 10 mg/day (initial dose) - A lower or less frequent dosage should be used in patients with hepatic impairment, the elderly, and for patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications. ( 2.7 ) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Initial Treatment: Adult: In controlled trials used to support the efficacy of fluoxetine tablets, patients were administered morning doses ranging from 20 to 80 mg/day. Studies comparing fluoxetine tablets 20, 40, and 60 mg/day to placebo indicate that 20 mg/day is sufficient to obtain a satisfactory response in Major Depressive Disorder in most cases. Consequently, a dose of 20 mg/day, administered in the morning, is recommended as the initial dose. A dose increase may be considered after several weeks if insufficient clinical improvement is observed. Doses above 20 mg/day may be administered on a once-a-day (morning) or BID schedule (i.e., morning and noon) and should not exceed a maximum dose of 80 mg/day. Pediatric (Children and Adolescents): In the short-term (8 to 9 week) controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine tablets supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Major Depressive Disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine tablets doses of 10 to 20 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Treatment should be initiated with a dose of 10 or 20 mg/day. After one week at 10 mg/day, the dose should be increased to 20 mg/day. A dose increase to 20 mg/day may be considered after several weeks if insufficient clinical improvement is observed. All Patients: As with other drugs effective in the treatment of Major Depressive Disorder, the full effect may be delayed until 4 weeks of treatment or longer. Maintenance/Continuation/Extended Treatment: It is generally agreed that acute episodes of Major Depressive Disorder require several months or longer of sustained pharmacologic therapy. Whether the dose needed to induce remission is identical to the dose needed to maintain and/or sustain euthymia is unknown. Daily Dosing: Systematic evaluation of fluoxetine tablets in adult patients has shown that its efficacy in Major Depressive Disorder is maintained for periods of up to 38 weeks following 12 weeks of open-label acute treatment (50 weeks total) at a dose of 20 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Switching Patients to a Tricyclic Antidepressant (TCA): Dosage of a TCA may need to be reduced and plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored temporarily when fluoxetine tablets is coadministered or has been recently discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Drug Interactions (7.7) ] . 2.2 Obsessive Compulsive Disorder Initial Treatment: Adult: In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine tablets supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fixed daily doses of 20 mg, 40 mg, or 60 mg of fluoxetine tablets or placebo [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Since there was a suggestion of a possible dose-response relationship for effectiveness in the second study, a dose increase may be considered after several weeks if insufficient clinical improvement is observed. Doses above 20 mg/day may be administered on a once daily (i.e., morning) or BID schedule (i.e., morning and noon). The maximum fluoxetine tablets dose should not exceed 80 mg/day. Pediatric (Children and Adolescents): In the controlled clinical trial of fluoxetine tablets supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of OCD, patients were administered fluoxetine tablets doses in the range of 10 to 60 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . In adolescents and higher weight children, treatment should be initiated with a dose of 10 mg/day. After 2 weeks, the dose should be increased to 20 mg/day. Additional dose increases may be considered after several more weeks if insufficient clinical improvement is observed. In lower weight children, treatment should be initiated with a dose of 10 mg/day. Maintenance/Continuation Treatment: While there are no systematic studies that answer the question of how long to continue fluoxetine tablets, OCD is a chronic condition and it is reasonable to consider continuation for a responding patient. Although the efficacy of fluoxetine tablets after 13 weeks has not been documented in controlled trials, adult patients have been continued in therapy under double-blind conditions for up to an additional 6 months without loss of benefit. However, dosage adjustments should be made to maintain the patient on the lowest effective dosage and patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for treatment. 2.3 Bulimia Nervosa Initial Treatment: In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine tablets supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Bulimia Nervosa, patients were administered fixed daily fluoxetine tablets doses of 20 mg or 60 mg, or placebo [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . Consequently, the recommended dose is 60 mg/day, administered in the morning. Fluoxetine tablets doses above 60 mg/day have not been systematically studied in patients with bulimia. Maintenance/Continuation Treatment: Systematic evaluation of continuing fluoxetine tablets 60 mg/day for periods of up to 52 weeks in patients with bulimia who have responded while taking fluoxetine tablets 60 mg/day during an 8-week acute treatment phase has demonstrated a benefit of such maintenance treatment [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . Nevertheless, patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment. 2.4 Panic Disorder Initial Treatment: In the controlled clinical trials of fluoxetine tablets supporting its effectiveness in the treatment of Panic Disorder, patients were administered fluoxetine tablets doses in the range of 10 to 60 mg/day [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . Treatment should be initiated with a dose of 10 mg/day. After one week, the dose should be increased to 20 mg/day. The most frequently administered dose in the two flexible-dose clinical trials was 20 mg/day. A dose increase may be considered after several weeks if no clinical improvement is observed. Fluoxetine tablets doses above 60 mg/day have not been systematically evaluated in patients with Panic Disorder. Maintenance/Continuation Treatment: While there are no systematic studies that answer the question of how long to continue fluoxetine tablets, Panic Disorder is a chronic condition and it is reasonable to consider continuation for a responding patient. Nevertheless, patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for continued treatment. 2.7 Dosing in Specific Populations Treatment of Pregnant Women: When treating pregnant women with fluoxetine tablets, the physician should carefully consider the potential risks and potential benefits of treatment. Neonates exposed to SSRIs or SNRIs late in the third trimester have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization, respiratory support, and tube feeding [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ] . Geriatric: A lower or less frequent dosage should be considered for the elderly [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ] . Hepatic Impairment: As with many other medications, a lower or less frequent dosage should be used in patients with hepatic impairment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . Concomitant Illness: Patients with concurrent disease or on multiple concomitant medications may require dosage adjustments [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . 2.8 Discontinuation of Treatment Symptoms associated with discontinuation of fluoxetine tablets, SNRIs, and SSRIs, have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15) ] . 2.9 Switching a Patient to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with fluoxetine tablets. Conversely, at least 5 weeks should be allowed after stopping fluoxetine tablets before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications (4.1) ] . 2.10 Use of Fluoxetine Tablets with Other MAOIs such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start fluoxetine tablets in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see Contraindications (4.1) ] . In some cases, a patient already receiving fluoxetine tablet therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, fluoxetine tablets should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. The patient should be monitored for symptoms of serotonin syndrome for 5 weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, whichever comes first. Therapy with fluoxetine tablets may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with fluoxetine tablets is unclear.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS When using fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax. Serotonin Syndrome and MAOIs: Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with fluoxetine or within 5 weeks of stopping treatment with fluoxetine. Do not use fluoxetine within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders. In addition, do not start fluoxetine in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue ( 4.1 ) Pimozide: Do not use. Risk of QT prolongation and drug interaction ( 4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) Thioridazine: Do not use. Risk of QT interval prolongation and elevated thioridazine plasma levels. Do not use thioridazine within 5 weeks of discontinuing fluoxetine. Do not use thioridazine within 5 weeks of discontinuing fluoxetine ( 4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax ( 4 ) 4.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with fluoxetine or within 5 weeks of stopping treatment with fluoxetine is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of fluoxetine within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.9) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Starting fluoxetine in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration (2.10) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 4.2 Other Contraindications The use of fluoxetine is contraindicated with the following: Pimozide [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) and Drug Interactions (7.7 , 7.8) ] Thioridazine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) and Drug Interactions (7.7 , 7.8) ] Pimozide and thioridazine prolong the QT interval. Fluoxetine can increase the levels of pimozide and thioridazine through inhibition of CYP2D6. Fluoxetine can also prolong the QT interval. When using fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax. 4.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with fluoxetine or within 5 weeks of stopping treatment with fluoxetine is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of fluoxetine within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.9) and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2)]. Starting fluoxetine in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.10) and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2)]. 4.2 Other Contraindications The use of fluoxetine is contraindicated with the following: Pimozide [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.11) and DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.7, 7.8)] Thioridazine [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.11) and DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.7, 7.8)] Pimozide and thioridazine prolong the QT interval. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax. • Serotonin Syndrome and MAOIs: Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with fluoxetine or within 5 weeks of stopping treatment with fluoxetine. Do not use fluoxetine capsules within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders. In addition, do not start fluoxetine in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue ( 4.1 ) • Pimozide: Do not use. Risk of QT prolongation and drug interaction ( 4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7, 7.8 ) • Thioridazine: Do not use. Do not use thioridazine within 5 weeks of discontinuing fluoxetine ( 4.2, 5.11, 7.7 , 7.8) • When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax ( 4 ) 4.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with fluoxetine capsules or within 5 weeks of stopping treatment with fluoxetine capsules is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of fluoxetine capsules within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [ see Dosage and Administration (2.9) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Starting fluoxetine capsules in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [ see Dosage and Administration (2.10) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. 4.2 Other Contraindications The use of fluoxetine capsules is contraindicated with the following: • Pimozide [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) and Drug Interactions (7.7 , 7.8)] • Thioridazine [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) and Drug Interactions (7.7 , 7.8)] Pimozide and thioridazine prolong the QT interval. Fluoxetine capsules can increase the levels of pimozide and thioridazine through inhibition of CYP2D6. Fluoxetine capsules can also prolong the QT interval. • Serotonin Syndrome and MAOIs: Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with fluoxetine capsules or within 5 weeks of stopping treatment with fluoxetine capsules. In addition, do not start fluoxetine capsules in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue (4.1) • Pimozide: Do not use. Risk of QT prolongation and drug interaction (4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8) • Thioridazine: Do not use. Do not use thioridazine within 5 weeks of discontinuing fluoxetine (4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8) • When using fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax (4) 4.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with fluoxetine capsules or within 5 weeks of stopping treatment with fluoxetine capsules is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of fluoxetine capsules within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.9) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Starting fluoxetine capsules in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration (2.10) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 4.2 Other Contraindications The use of fluoxetine capsules is contraindicated with the following: • Pimozide [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) and Drug Interactions (7.7 , 7.8) ] • Thioridazine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) and Drug Interactions (7.7 , 7.8) ] Pimozide and thioridazine prolong the QT interval. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . Do not use thioridazine within 5 weeks of discontinuing fluoxetine ( 4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax ® ( 4 ) 4.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with fluoxetine or within 5 weeks of stopping treatment with fluoxetine is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of fluoxetine within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.9) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Starting fluoxetine in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.10 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . 4.2 Other Contraindications The use of fluoxetine is contraindicated with the following: Pimozide [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.7 , 7.8 )] Thioridazine [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.7 , 7.8 )] Pimozide and thioridazine prolong the QT interval. Serotonin Syndrome and MAOIs: Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with fluoxetine capsules or within 5 weeks of stopping treatment with fluoxetine capsules. In addition, do not start fluoxetine capsules in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue (4.1) Pimozide: Do not use. Risk of QT prolongation and drug interaction (4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8) Thioridazine: Do not use. Do not use thioridazine within 5 weeks of discontinuing fluoxetine (4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8) When using fluoxetine capsules and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax (4) 4.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with fluoxetine capsules or within 5 weeks of stopping treatment with fluoxetine capsules is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. 4.2 Other Contraindications The use of fluoxetine capsules is contraindicated with the following: Pimozide [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) and Drug Interactions (7.7 , 7.8) ] Thioridazine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) and Drug Interactions (7.7 , 7.8) ] Pimozide and thioridazine prolong the QT interval. In addition, do not start fluoxetine in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. ( 4.1 ) Pimozide: Do not use. Risk of QT prolongation and drug interaction. ( 4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) Thioridazine: Do not use. ( 4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) When using fluoxetine and olanzapine in combination, also refer to the Contraindications section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . ( 4 ) 4.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with fluoxetine tablets or within 5 weeks of stopping treatment with fluoxetine tablets are contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of fluoxetine tablets within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.9) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Starting fluoxetine tablets in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration (2.10) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 4.2 Other Contraindications The use of fluoxetine tablets are contraindicated with the following: Pimozide [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) and Drug Interactions (7.7, 7.8) ] Thioridazine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) and Drug Interactions (7.7, 7.8) ] Pimozide and thioridazine prolong the QT interval. Fluoxetine tablets can increase the levels of pimozide and thioridazine through inhibition of CYP2D6. Fluoxetine tablets can also prolong the QT interval.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS As with all drugs, the potential for interaction by a variety of mechanisms (e.g., pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic drug inhibition or enhancement, etc.) is a possibility. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): ( 2.9 , 2.10 , 4.1 , 5.2 ) Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6: Fluoxetine is a potent inhibitor of CYP2D6 enzyme pathway ( 7.7 ) Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs): Monitor TCA levels during coadministration with fluoxetine or when fluoxetine has been recently discontinued ( 5.2 , 7.7 ) CNS Acting Drugs: Caution should be used when taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs ( 7.2 ) Benzodiazepines: Diazepam – increased t½, alprazolam - further psychomotor performance decrement due to increased levels ( 7.7 ) Antipsychotics: Potential for elevation of haloperidol and clozapine levels ( 7.7 ) Anticonvulsants: Potential for elevated phenytoin and carbamazepine levels and clinical anticonvulsant toxicity ( 7.7 ) Serotonergic Drugs: ( 2.9 , 2.10 , 4.1 , 5.2 ) Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g. NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin): May potentiate the risk of bleeding ( 7.4 ) Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins: May cause a shift in plasma concentrations ( 7.6 , 7.7 ) Olanzapine: When used in combination with fluoxetine, also refer to the Drug Interactions section of the package insert for Symbyax ( 7.7 ) Drugs that Prolong the QT Interval: Do not use fluoxetine with thioridazine or pimozide. Use with caution in combination with other drugs that prolong the QT interval ( 4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) [see Dosage and Administration (2.9, 2.10) , Contraindications (4.1) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 7.2 CNS Acting Drugs Caution is advised if the concomitant administration of fluoxetine and such drugs is required. In evaluating individual cases, consideration should be given to using lower initial doses of the concomitantly administered drugs, using conservative titration schedules, and monitoring of clinical status [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.3 Serotonergic Drugs [see Dosage and Administration (2.9, 2.10) , Contraindications (4.1) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 7.4 Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin) Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies of the case-control and cohort design that have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding have also shown that concurrent use of an NSAID or aspirin may potentiate this risk of bleeding. Altered anticoagulant effects, including increased bleeding, have been reported when SNRIs or SSRIs are coadministered with warfarin. Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when fluoxetine is initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . 7.5 Electroconvulsive Therapy (ECT) There are no clinical studies establishing the benefit of the combined use of ECT and fluoxetine. There have been rare reports of prolonged seizures in patients on fluoxetine receiving ECT treatment. 7.6 Potential for Other Drugs to affect Fluoxetine Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins — Because fluoxetine is tightly bound to plasma proteins, adverse effects may result from displacement of protein-bound fluoxetine by other tightly-bound drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.7 Potential for Fluoxetine to affect Other Drugs Pimozide — Concomitant use in patients taking pimozide is contraindicated. Pimozide can prolong the QT interval. Fluoxetine can increase the level of pimozide through inhibition of CYP2D6. Fluoxetine can also prolong the QT interval. Clinical studies of pimozide with other antidepressants demonstrate an increase in drug interaction or QT prolongation. While a specific study with pimozide and fluoxetine has not been conducted, the potential for drug interactions or QT prolongation warrants restricting the concurrent use of pimozide and fluoxetine [see Contraindications (4.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.11) , and Drug Interactions (7.8) ] . Thioridazine — Thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued, because of the risk of QT Prolongation [see Contraindications (4.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.11) , and Drug Interactions (7.8) ] . In a study of 19 healthy male subjects, which included 6 slow and 13 rapid hydroxylators of debrisoquin, a single 25 mg oral dose of thioridazine produced a 2.4-fold higher C max and a 4.5-fold higher AUC for thioridazine in the slow hydroxylators compared with the rapid hydroxylators. The rate of debrisoquin hydroxylation is felt to depend on the level of CYP2D6 isozyme activity. Thus, this study suggests that drugs which inhibit CYP2D6, such as certain SSRIs, including fluoxetine, will produce elevated plasma levels of thioridazine. Thioridazine administration produces a dose-related prolongation of the QT interval, which is associated with serious ventricular arrhythmias, such as Torsades de Pointes-type arrhythmias, and sudden death. This risk is expected to increase with fluoxetine-induced inhibition of thioridazine metabolism. Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 — Fluoxetine inhibits the activity of CYP2D6, and may make individuals with normal CYP2D6 metabolic activity resemble a poor metabolizer. Coadministration of fluoxetine with other drugs that are metabolized by CYP2D6, including certain antidepressants (e.g., TCAs), antipsychotics (e.g., phenothiazines and most atypicals), and antiarrhythmics (e.g., propafenone, flecainide, and others) should be approached with caution. Therapy with medications that are predominantly metabolized by the CYP2D6 system and that have a relatively narrow therapeutic index (see list below) should be initiated at the low end of the dose range if a patient is receiving fluoxetine concurrently or has taken it in the previous 5 weeks. Thus, his/her dosing requirements resemble those of poor metabolizers. If fluoxetine is added to the treatment regimen of a patient already receiving a drug metabolized by CYP2D6, the need for decreased dose of the original medication should be considered. Drugs with a narrow therapeutic index represent the greatest concern (e.g., flecainide, propafenone, vinblastine, and TCAs). Due to the risk of serious ventricular arrhythmias and sudden death potentially associated with elevated plasma levels of thioridazine, thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued [see Contraindications (4.2 )] . Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) — In 2 studies, previously stable plasma levels of imipramine and desipramine have increased greater than 2- to 10-fold when fluoxetine has been administered in combination. This influence may persist for 3 weeks or longer after fluoxetine is discontinued. Thus, the dose of TCAs may need to be reduced and plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored temporarily when fluoxetine is coadministered or has been recently discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Benzodiazepines — The half-life of concurrently administered diazepam may be prolonged in some patients [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Coadministration of alprazolam and fluoxetine has resulted in increased alprazolam plasma concentrations and in further psychomotor performance decrement due to increased alprazolam levels. Antipsychotics — Some clinical data suggests a possible pharmacodynamic and/or pharmacokinetic interaction between SSRIs and antipsychotics. Elevation of blood levels of haloperidol and clozapine has been observed in patients receiving concomitant fluoxetine. Anticonvulsants — Patients on stable doses of phenytoin and carbamazepine have developed elevated plasma anticonvulsant concentrations and clinical anticonvulsant toxicity following initiation of concomitant fluoxetine treatment. Lithium — There have been reports of both increased and decreased lithium levels when lithium was used concomitantly with fluoxetine. Cases of lithium toxicity and increased serotonergic effects have been reported. Lithium levels should be monitored when these drugs are administered concomitantly [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins — Because fluoxetine is tightly bound to plasma proteins, the administration of fluoxetine to a patient taking another drug that is tightly bound to protein (e.g., Coumadin, digitoxin) may cause a shift in plasma concentrations potentially resulting in an adverse effect [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Drugs Metabolized by CYP3A4 — In an in vivo interaction study involving coadministration of fluoxetine with single doses of terfenadine (a CYP3A4 substrate), no increase in plasma terfenadine concentrations occurred with concomitant fluoxetine. Additionally, in vitro studies have shown ketoconazole, a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 activity, to be at least 100 times more potent than fluoxetine or norfluoxetine as an inhibitor of the metabolism of several substrates for this enzyme, including astemizole, cisapride, and midazolam. These data indicate that fluoxetine’s extent of inhibition of CYP3A4 activity is not likely to be of clinical significance. Olanzapine — Fluoxetine (60 mg single dose or 60 mg daily dose for 8 days) causes a small (mean 16%) increase in the maximum concentration of olanzapine and a small (mean 16%) decrease in olanzapine clearance. The magnitude of the impact of this factor is small in comparison to the overall variability between individuals, and therefore dose modification is not routinely recommended. When using fluoxetine and olanzapine and in combination, also refer to the Drug Interactions section of the package insert for Symbyax. 7.8 Drugs that Prolong the QT Interval Do not use fluoxetine in combination with thioridazine or pimozide. Use fluoxetine with caution in combination with other drugs that cause QT prolongation. These include: specific antipsychotics (e.g., ziprasidone, iloperidone, chlorpromazine, mesoridazine, droperidol); specific antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, gatifloxacin, moxifloxacin, sparfloxacin); Class 1A antiarrhythmic medications (e.g., quinidine, procainamide); Class III antiarrhythmics (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol); and others (e.g., pentamidine, levomethadyl acetate, methadone, halofantrine, mefloquine, dolasetron mesylate, probucol or tacrolimus). Fluoxetine is primarily metabolized by CYP2D6. Concomitant treatment with CYP2D6 inhibitors can increase the concentration of fluoxetine. Concomitant use of other highly protein-bound drugs can increase the concentration of fluoxetine [see Contraindications (4.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.11) , Drug Interactions (7.7) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Use with caution in combination with other drugs that prolong the QT interval ( 4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) [See Dosage and Administration (2.9 , 2.10) , Contraindications (4.1) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 7.3 Other Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of serotonergic drugs (including other SSRIs, SNRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan, and St. John's Wort) with fluoxetine increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of fluoxetine and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. While a specific study with pimozide and fluoxetine has not been conducted, the potential for drug interactions or QT prolongation warrants restricting the concurrent use of pimozide and fluoxetine Thioridazine — Thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued, because of the risk of QT Prolongation [see Contraindications (4.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.11) , and Drug Interactions (7.8)]. In a study of 19 healthy male subjects, which included 6 slow and 13 rapid hydroxylators of debrisoquin, a single 25 mg oral dose of thioridazine produced a 2.4-fold higher Cmax and a 4.5-fold higher AUC for thioridazine in the slow hydroxylators compared with the rapid hydroxylators. Due to the risk of serious ventricular arrhythmias and sudden death potentially associated with elevated plasma levels of thioridazine, thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued [see Contraindications (4.2)]. Thus, the dose of TCAs may need to be reduced and plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored temporarily when fluoxetine is coadministered or has been recently discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Benzodiazepines — The half-life of concurrently administered diazepam may be prolonged in some patients [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Lithium levels should be monitored when these drugs are administered concomitantly [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins — Because fluoxetine is tightly bound to plasma proteins, the administration of fluoxetine to a patient taking another drug that is tightly bound to protein (e.g., Coumadin, digitoxin) may cause a shift in plasma concentrations potentially resulting in an adverse effect [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. As with all drugs, the potential for interaction by a variety of mechanisms (e.g., pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic drug inhibition or enhancement, etc.) is a possibility. 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) [See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.9, 2.10), CONTRAINDICATIONS (4.1), and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2)]. In evaluating individual cases, consideration should be given to using lower initial doses of the concomitantly administered drugs, using conservative titration schedules, and monitoring of clinical status [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)] . 7.3 Serotonergic Drugs [See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.9, 2.10), CONTRAINDICATIONS (4.1), and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2)]. Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when fluoxetine is initiated or discontinued [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.7)] . 7.6 Potential for Other Drugs to affect Fluoxetine Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins — Because fluoxetine is tightly bound to plasma proteins, adverse effects may result from displacement of protein-bound fluoxetine by other tightly-bound drugs [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)] . While a specific study with pimozide and fluoxetine has not been conducted, the potential for drug interactions or QT prolongation warrants restricting the concurrent use of pimozide and fluoxetine Thioridazine — Thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued, because of the risk of QT Prolongation [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4.2), WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.11), and DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.8)]. Thus, the dose of TCAs may need to be reduced and plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored temporarily when fluoxetine is coadministered or has been recently discontinued [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. Benzodiazepines — The half-life of concurrently administered diazepam may be prolonged in some patients [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. Olanzapine— Fluoxetine (60 mg single dose or 60 mg daily dose for 8 days) causes a small (mean 16%) increase in the maximum concentration of olanzapine and a small (mean 16%) decrease in olanzapine clearance. Concomitant use of other highly protein-bound drugs can increase the concentration of fluoxetine [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4.2), WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.11), DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.7), and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. • Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): ( 2.9 , 2.10 , 4.1 , 5.2 ) • Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6: Fluoxetine is a potent inhibitor of CYP2D6 enzyme pathway ( 7.7 ) • Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs): Monitor TCA levels during coadministration with fluoxetine or when fluoxetine has been recently discontinued ( 5.2 , 7.7 ) • CNS Acting Drugs: Caution should be used when taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs ( 7.2 ) • Benzodiazepines: Diazepam – increased t ½ , alprazolam - further psychomotor performance decrement due to increased levels ( 7.7 ) • Antipsychotics: Potential for elevation of haloperidol and clozapine levels ( 7.7 ) • Anticonvulsants: Potential for elevated phenytoin and carbamazepine levels and clinical anticonvulsant toxicity ( 7.7 ) • Serotonergic Drugs: ( 2.9 , 2.10 , 4.1 , 5.2 ) • Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g. NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin): May potentiate the risk of bleeding ( 7.4 ) • Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins: May cause a shift in plasma concentrations ( 7.6 , 7.7 ) • Olanzapine: When used in combination with fluoxetine, also refer to the Drug Interactions section of the package insert for Symbyax ( 7.7 ) • Drugs that Prolong the QT Interval: Do not use fluoxetine with thioridazine or pimozide. Use with caution in combination with other drugs that prolong the QT interval ( 4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) [See Dosage and Administration (2.9, 2.10), Contraindications (4.1), and Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. In evaluating individual cases, consideration should be given to using lower initial doses of the concomitantly administered drugs, using conservative titration schedules, and monitoring of clinical status [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when fluoxetine is initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. 7.6 Potential for Other Drugs to affect Fluoxetine Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins - Because fluoxetine is tightly bound to plasma proteins, adverse effects may result from displacement of protein-bound fluoxetine by other tightly-bound drugs [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.7 Potential for Fluoxetine to affect Other Drugs Pimozide - Concomitant use in patients taking pimozide is contraindicated. While a specific study with pimozide and fluoxetine has not been conducted, the potential for drug interactions or QT prolongation warrants restricting the concurrent use of pimozide and fluoxetine [see Contraindications (4.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.11), and Drug Interactions (7.8)]. Thioridazine - Thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued, because of the risk of QT Prolongation [see Contraindications (4.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.11), and Drug Interactions (7.8)]. Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 - Fluoxetine inhibits the activity of CYP2D6, and may make individuals with normal CYP2D6 metabolic activity resemble a poor metabolizer. These data indicate that fluoxetine's extent of inhibition of CYP3A4 activity is not likely to be of clinical significance. 7.8 Drugs that Prolong the QT Intervals Do not use fluoxetine in combination with thioridazine or pimozide. • Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): (2.9 , 2.10 , 4.1 , 5.2 ) • Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6: Fluoxetine is a potent inhibitor of CYP2D6 enzyme pathway (7.7) • Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs): Monitor TCA levels during coadministration with fluoxetine or when fluoxetine has been recently discontinued (5.2 , 7.7) • CNS Acting Drugs: Caution should be used when taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs (7.2) • Benzodiazepines: Diazepam - increased t½, alprazolam – further psychomotor performance decrement due to increased levels (7.7) • Antipsychotics: Potential for elevation of haloperidol and clozapine levels (7.7) • Anticonvulsants: Potential for elevated phenytoin and carbamazepine levels and clinical anticonvulsant toxicity (7.7) • Serotonergic Drugs: (2.9 , 2.10 , 4.1 , 5.2) • Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin): May potentiate the risk of bleeding (7.4) • Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins: May cause a shift in plasma concentrations (7.6 , 7.7) • Olanzapine: When used in combination with fluoxetine, also refer to the Drug Interactions section of the package insert for Symbyax (7.7) • Drugs that Prolong the QT Interval: Do not use fluoxetine with thioridazine or pimozide. Use with caution in combination with other drugs that prolong the QT interval ( 4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) [See Dosage and Administration (2.9, 2.10 ), Contraindications (4.1) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Lithium levels should be monitored when these drugs are administered concomitantly [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Concomitant use of other highly protein-bound drugs can increase the concentration of fluoxetine[see Contraindications (4.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.11) , Drug Interactions (7.7) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): ( 2.9 , 2.10 , 4.1 , 5.2 ) Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 : Fluoxetine is a potent inhibitor of CYP2D6 enzyme pathway ( 7.7 ) Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs): Monitor TCA levels during coadministration with fluoxetine or when fluoxetine has been recently discontinued ( 5.2 , 7.7 ) CNS Acting Drugs: Caution should be used when taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs ( 7.2 ) Benzodiazepines: Diazepam – increased t½, alprazolam - further psychomotor performance decrement due to increased levels ( 7.7 ) Antipsychotics: Potential for elevation of haloperidol and clozapine levels ( 7.7 ) Anticonvulsants: Potential for elevated phenytoin and carbamazepine levels and clinical anticonvulsant toxicity ( 7.7 ) Serotonergic Drugs: ( 2.9 , 2.10 , 4.1 , 5.2 ) Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g. 7.3 Serotonergic Drugs [see Dosage and Administration (2.9 , 2.10) , Contraindications (4.1) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. While a specific study with pimozide and fluoxetine has not been conducted, the potential for drug interactions or QT prolongation warrants restricting the concurrent use of pimozide and fluoxetine [see Contraindications (4.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.11) , and Drug Interactions (7.8)]. Thioridazine — Thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued, because of the risk of QT Prolongation [see Contraindications (4.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.11) , and Drug Interactions (7.8)]. Due to the risk of serious ventricular arrhythmias and sudden death potentially associated with elevated plasma levels of thioridazine, thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued [see Contraindications (4.2)] . Benzodiazapines — The half-life of concurrently administered diazepam may be prolonged in some patients [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): (2.9, 2.10, 4.1 , 5.2 ) Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6: Fluoxetine is a potent inhibitor of CYP2D6 enzyme pathway ( 7.7 ) Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs): Monitor TCA levels during coadministration with fluoxetine or when fluoxetine has been recently discontinued ( 5.2 , 7.7 ) CNS Acting Drugs: Caution should be used when taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs ( 7.2 ) Benzodiazepines: Diazepam – increased t 1/2 , alprazolam - further psychomotor performance decrement due to increased levels ( 7.7 ) Antipsychotics: Potential for elevation of haloperidol and clozapine levels ( 7.7 ) Anticonvulsants: Potential for elevated phenytoin and carbamazepine levels and clinical anticonvulsant toxicity ( 7.7 ) Serotonergic Drugs: (2.9, 2.10, 4.1 , 5.2 ) Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin): May potentiate the risk of bleeding ( 7.4 ) Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins: May cause a shift in plasma concentrations ( 7.6 , 7.7 ) Olanzapine: When used in combination with fluoxetine, also refer to the Drug Interactions section of the package insert for Symbyax ® ( 7.7 ) Drugs that Prolong the QT Interval: Do not use fluoxetine with thioridazine or pimozide. Use with caution in combination with other drugs that prolong the QT interval ( 4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) [See Dosage and Administration (2.9, 2.10), Contraindications ( 4.1 ), and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . In evaluating individual cases, consideration should be given to using lower initial doses of the concomitantly administered drugs, using conservative titration schedules, and monitoring of clinical status [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of fluoxetine and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when fluoxetine is initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . 7.6 Potential for Other Drugs to affect Fluoxetine Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins — Because fluoxetine is tightly bound to plasma proteins, adverse effects may result from displacement of protein-bound fluoxetine by other tightly-bound drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . While a specific study with pimozide and fluoxetine has not been conducted, the potential for drug interactions or QT prolongation warrants restricting the concurrent use of pimozide and fluoxetine [see Contraindications ( 4.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ), and Drug Interactions ( 7.8 )] . Thioridazine — Thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued, because of the risk of QT Prolongation [see Contraindications ( 4.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ), and Drug Interactions ( 7.8 )] . Due to the risk of serious ventricular arrhythmias and sudden death potentially associated with elevated plasma levels of thioridazine, thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued [see Contraindications ( 4.2 )] . Thus, the dose of TCAs may need to be reduced and plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored temporarily when fluoxetine is coadministered or has been recently discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Benzodiazepines — The half-life of concurrently administered diazepam may be prolonged in some patients [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Lithium levels should be monitored when these drugs are administered concomitantly [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins — Because fluoxetine is tightly bound to plasma proteins, the administration of fluoxetine to a patient taking another drug that is tightly bound to protein (e.g., Coumadin ® , digitoxin) may cause a shift in plasma concentrations potentially resulting in an adverse effect [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . When using fluoxetine and olanzapine and in combination, also refer to the Drug Interactions section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . Concomitant use of other highly protein-bound drugs can increase the concentration of fluoxetine [see Contraindications ( 4.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.7 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): (2.9 , 2.10 , 4.1 , 5.2 ) Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6: Fluoxetine is a potent inhibitor of CYP2D6 enzyme pathway (7.7) Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs): Monitor TCA levels during coadministration with fluoxetine or when fluoxetine has been recently discontinued (5.2 , 7.7) CNS Acting Drugs: Caution should be used when taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs (7.2) Benzodiazepines: Diazepam - increased t½, alprazolam – further psychomotor performance decrement due to increased levels (7.7) Antipsychotics: Potential for elevation of haloperidol and clozapine levels (7.7) Anticonvulsants: Potential for elevated phenytoin and carbamazepine levels and clinical anticonvulsant toxicity (7.7) Serotonergic Drugs: (2.9 , 2.10 , 4.1 , 5.2) Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin): May potentiate the risk of bleeding (7.4) Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins: May cause a shift in plasma concentrations (7.6 , 7.7) Olanzapine: When used in combination with fluoxetine, also refer to the Drug Interactions section of the package insert for Symbyax (7.7) Drugs that Prolong the QT Interval: Do not use fluoxetine with thioridazine or pimozide. While a specific study with pimozide and fluoxetine has not been conducted, the potential for drug interactions or QT prolongation warrants restricting the concurrent use of pimozide and fluoxetine [see Contraindications (4.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.11), and Drug Interactions (7.8) ] . Concomitant use of other highly protein-bound drugs can increase the concentration of fluoxetine [see Contraindications (4.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.11), Drug Interactions (7.7) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): ( 2.9 , 2.10 , 4.1 , 5.2 ) Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6: Fluoxetine is a potent inhibitor of CYP2D6 enzyme pathway. ( 7.7 ) Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs): Monitor TCA levels during coadministration with fluoxetine or when fluoxetine has been recently discontinued. ( 5.2 , 7.7 ) CNS Acting Drugs: Caution should be used when taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs. ( 7.2 ) Benzodiazepines: Diazepam – increased t ½ , alprazolam - further psychomotor performance decrement due to increased levels. ( 7.7 ) Antipsychotics: Potential for elevation of haloperidol and clozapine levels. ( 7.7 ) Anticonvulsants: Potential for elevated phenytoin and carbamazepine levels and clinical anticonvulsant toxicity. ( 7.7 ) Serotonergic Drugs: ( 2.9 , 2.10 , 4.1 , 5.2 ) Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin): May potentiate the risk of bleeding. ( 7.4 ) Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins: May cause a shift in plasma concentrations. ( 7.6 , 7.7 ) Olanzapine: When used in combination with fluoxetine, also refer to the Drug Interactions section of the package insert for Symbyax ® . ( 7.7 ) Drugs that Prolong the QT Interval: Do not use fluoxetine with thioridazine or pimozide. Use with caution in combination with other drugs that prolong the QT interval. ( 4.2 , 5.11 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) [See Dosage and Administration (2.9 , 2.10) , Contraindications (4.1) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Epidemiological studies of the case control and cohort design that have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding have also shown that concurrent use of an NSAID or aspirin may potentiate this risk of bleeding. 7.6 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Fluoxetine Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins: Because fluoxetine is tightly bound to plasma proteins, adverse effects may result from displacement of protein bound fluoxetine by other tightly-bound drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.7 Potential for Fluoxetine to Affect Other Drugs Pimozide: Concomitant use in patients taking pimozide is contraindicated. Thioridazine: Thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued, because of the risk of QT Prolongation [see Contraindications (4.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.11) , and Drug Interactions (7.8) ] . Thioridazine administration produces a dose related prolongation of the QT interval, which is associated with serious ventricular arrhythmias, such as Torsades de Pointes-type arrhythmias and sudden death. Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6: Fluoxetine inhibits the activity of CYP2D6, and may make individuals with normal CYP2D6 metabolic activity resemble a poor metabolizer. Due to the risk of serious ventricular arrhythmias and sudden death potentially associated with elevated plasma levels of thioridazine, thioridazine should not be administered with fluoxetine or within a minimum of 5 weeks after fluoxetine has been discontinued [see Contraindications (4.2) ] . Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs): In two studies, previously stable plasma levels of imipramine and desipramine have increased greater than 2- to 10-fold when fluoxetine has been administered in combination. Benzodiazepines: The half-life of concurrently administered diazepam may be prolonged in some patients [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Antipsychotics: Some clinical data suggests a possible pharmacodynamic and/or pharmacokinetic interaction between SSRIs and antipsychotics. Anticonvulsants: Patients on stable doses of phenytoin and carbamazepine have developed elevated plasma anticonvulsant concentrations and clinical anticonvulsant toxicity following initiation of concomitant fluoxetine treatment. Lithium: There have been reports of both increased and decreased lithium levels when lithium was used concomitantly with fluoxetine. Drugs Tightly Bound to Plasma Proteins: Because fluoxetine is tightly bound to plasma proteins, the administration of fluoxetine to a patient taking another drug that is tightly bound to protein (e.g., Coumadin ® , digitoxin) may cause a shift in plasma concentrations potentially resulting in an adverse effect [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Drugs Metabolized by CYP3A4: In an in vivo interaction study involving coadministration of fluoxetine with single doses of terfenadine (a CYP3A4 substrate), no increase in plasma terfenadine concentrations occurred with concomitant fluoxetine. Olanzapine: Fluoxetine (60 mg single dose or 60 mg daily dose for 8 days) causes a small (mean 16%) increase in the maximum concentration of olanzapine and a small (mean 16%) decrease in olanzapine clearance.

=== LIDOCAINE 4% ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Topical anesthetic, Topical analgesic External Analgesic. Purpose Topical Anesthetic Purpose External Anesthetic External Analgesic Purpose Temporarily relieves minor pain. Purposes Topical analgesic Topical analgesic Purpose Topical analgesic
Indications: Temporarily relieves minor pain Adults and children 2 years and older: apply to the affected area, not more than 3 to 4 times a day. Children under 2 years of age: consult a physician. To apply to face, squeeze into palm of hand and gently apply. Use Temporarily relieves minor pain. USES Temporarily relieves minor pain USE For the temporary relief of pain Uses For the temporary relief of pain Uses For the temporary relief of pain. Idications and Usage Uses: Temporaily relieves minor pains.
Dosage: When practical, cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water, Rinse thoroughly and gently pat dry. Spray affected area. Wash hands after applying. Adults and children 2 years of age and older, apply externally to the affected area up to 6 times a day. Children under 12 years of age: consult a doctor. For the temporary relief of pain and itching due to sunburn, minor burns, insect bites, minor cuts, scrapes, and minor skin irritations. Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and over: Clean and dry affected area. Carefully remove backing from patch. Apply sticky side of patch to affected area. Use one patch for up to 24 hours. Discard patch after single use. Children under 12 years of age: consult a physician. DIRECTIONS Adults and children over 12 years : Clean and dry affected area. Remove film from patch (see illustration). Use one patch for up to 12 hours. Discard patch after single use Children 12 years of age or younger : Consult a physician. Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and older: Wash and dry the affected area. Peel off the backing film from one side of the patch carefully Apply the exposed portion of the patch to the affected area. Gently press the patch with your hand to fit the affected area completely. Do not exercise vigorously during use to prevent the patch from falling off. Use only 1 patch for a maximum of 8 hours. Children under 12 years of age: Ask a doctor before use. Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and over: Clean and dry the affected area Open pouch and remove one patch Apply 1 patch at a time to affected area; not more than 3 to 4 times daily Reseal pouch containing unused patches after each use Remove patch from the skin after at most 8-hour application Children under 12 years of age: consult a doctor Directions Adults 18 years and older: • clean and dry affected area • open pouch and remove one patch • remove protective film from patch • apply one patch to the affected area of pain and leave in place for 8 to 12 hours Dosage and Administration Directions Adults and children over 12 years: ■ clean and dry affected area ■ carefully remove backing from patch starting at corner ■ apply sticky side of patch to affected area ■ use one patch for up to 24 hours. Directions Adult and children 12 years of age and over: Clean and dry affected area Remove ﬁlm from patch and apply to the skin (see illustration) Apply 1 patch at a time to affected area, not more than 3 to 4 times daily Remove patch from the skin after at most 8-hour application Children under 12 years of age: Consult a doctor Directions adults and children over 12 years: • apply strip for up to 12 hours of wear time • apply 1 strip at a time to the affected area, not more than 2 to 3 times daily • store in a cool dry place children 12 years or younger: ask a doctor
Warnings: For external use only. Flammable-- Keep away from fire or flame. Do not use if you have had an allergic reaction to lidocaine or other local anesthetics, on large areas of he body or on cut, irritated, blistered or swollen skin, on puncture wounds, for more than one week without consulting a doctor. When using this product only use as directed, avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes, rare cases of serious burns have been reported with products of this type, do not apply to wounds or damaged, broken, or irritated skin, do not bandage tightly or apply local heat (such as heating pads) or a medicated path to the area of use, a transient burning sensation may occur upon application but generally disappears in several days, avoid applying into skin folds. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens, severe burning sensation, redness, rash or irritation develops, symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days, you experience signs of skin injury, such as pain, swelling, or blistering where the product was applied. . For external use only . Flammable --Do not use while smoking or near heat or flame. Do not use in large quantities, particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas. When using this product avoid contact with eyes. Rinse eyes with water to remove. Contents under pressure. Do not puncture or incinerate. Do not store at temperature above 120F. Stop use and ask a doctor if the condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days, irritation develops. Warnings For External Use Only Do not Use More than one patch on your body at a time On cut, irritated or swollen skin On puncture wounds For more than one week without consulting a doctor If you are allergic to any active or inactive ingredients If pouch is damaged or opened. When using this product Use only as directed Read and follow all directions and warnings on this carton Do not allow contact with the eyes Do not use at the same time as other topical anesthetics Do not bandage tightly or apply local heat (such as heating pads) to the area of use Do not microwave Dispose of used patch in manner that always keeps product away from children and pets. Used patches still contain the drug product that can produce serious adverse effects is a child or pet chews or ingests this patch. Stop use and consult a doctor if Condition worsen Redness is present Irritation develops Symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days You experience signs of skin injury, such as pain, swelling, or blistering where the product was applied. Keep out of reach of children and pets If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away 800-222-1222 If pregnant or breastfeeding ask a health professional before use WARNINGS For external use only Do not use More than one patch on your body at a time On cut, irritated or swollen skin On puncture wounds For more than one week without consulting a doctor If you are allergic to any active or inactive ingredients If pouch is damaged or opened When using this product Use only as directed Read and follow all directions and warnings on this pack Do not allow contact with the eyes Do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics Do not bandage tightly or apply local heat (such as heating pads) to the area of use Do not microwave Dispose of used patch in manner that always keeps product away from children and pets Used patches still contain the drug product that can produce serious adverse effects if a child or pet chews or ingests this patch Stop use and ask a doctor if Condition worsens Redness is present Irritation develops Symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days You experience signs of skin injury, such as pain, swelling or blistering where the product was applied If pregnant or breast-feeding ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings For external use only Do not use more than 1 patch on vour bodv at a time on cut, irritated.or swolen skin on puncture wounds for more than one week without consulting a doctor DO NOT USE: More than 1 patch at a time On wounds or damaged skin For more than one week without consulting a doctor If you are allergic to any ingredients of this product Warnings For external use only Warnings For external use only. Do not use • on the face or rashes, on wounds or damaged skin • in the eyes, mouth, or other mucous membranes • on genitals • with a heating pad • right before or after heart surgery • any patch from a pouch that has been opened for 7 or more days • in large quantities, particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas • if tamper-evident seal is torn, broken, or missing • more than 2 patches per day unless directed by a doctor • children under 18 years of age Ask a doctor before use if you have • allergies to topical products • high blood pressure, heart disease, or kidney disease When using this product • Avoid contact with eyes. If eye contact occurs, rinse thoroughly with water. • The risk of heart attack or stroke may increase if you use more than directed or for longer than directed. Stop use and ask doctor if condition worsens, or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days. If pregnant of breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use Do not use during last 3 months of pregnancy because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery. If put in mouth, seek medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Dispose if the used patches by folding sticky ends together. Warnings for external use only When using this product • use only as directed. Read and follow all directions and warnings on this package • do not bandage tightly • avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes • do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics • do not remove when wet or directly after shower, allow to dry and then slowly remove Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • you experience signs of skin injury, such as pain, swelling or blistering where the tape was applied • If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use • If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away

=== NORTRIPTYLINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nortriptyline hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the relief of symptoms of depression. Endogenous depressions are more likely to be alleviated than are other depressive states. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nortriptyline hydrochloride is indicated for the relief of symptoms of depression. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nortriptyline hydrochloride, USP is indicated for the relief of symptoms of depression. Nortriptyline hydrochloride, USP is indicated for the relief of symptoms of depression.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Nortriptyline hydrochloride is not recommended for children. Nortriptyline hydrochloride is administered orally in the form of capsules. Lower than usual dosages are recommended for elderly patients and adolescents. Lower dosages are also recommended for outpatients than for hospitalized patients who will be under close supervision. The physician should initiate dosage at a low level and increase it gradually, noting carefully the clinical response and any evidence of intolerance. Following remission, maintenance medication may be required for a longer period of time at the lowest dose that will maintain remission. If a patient develops minor side effects, the dosage should be reduced. The drug should be discontinued promptly if adverse effects of a serious nature or allergic manifestations occur. Usual Adult Dose 25 mg three or four times daily; dosage should begin at a low level and be increased as required. As an alternate regimen, the total daily dosage may be given once a day. When doses above 100 mg daily are administered, plasma levels of nortriptyline should be monitored and maintained in the optimum range of 50 to 150 ng/mL. Doses above 150 mg/day are not recommended. Elderly and Adolescent Patients 30 to 50 mg/day, in divided doses, or the total daily dosage may be given once a day. Switching a Patient To or From a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with nortriptyline hydrochloride. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping nortriptyline hydrochloride before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). Use of Nortriptyline Hydrochloride With Other MAOIs, Such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start nortriptyline hydrochloride in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). In some cases, a patient already receiving nortriptyline hydrochloride therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, nortriptyline hydrochloride should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. The patient should be monitored for symptoms of serotonin syndrome for two weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, whichever comes first. Therapy with nortriptyline hydrochloride may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue (see WARNINGS). The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with nortriptyline hydrochloride is unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use (see WARNINGS). Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping nortriptyline hydrochloride before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Therapy with nortriptyline hydrochloride may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue ( see WARNINGS ). The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use ( see WARNINGS ). Usual Adult Dose - 25 mg three or four times daily; dosage should begin at a low level and be increased as required. Elderly and Adolescent Patients - 30 to 50 mg/day, in divided doses, or the total daily dosage may be given once a day. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping nortriptyline hydrochloride before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Therapy with nortriptyline hydrochloride may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue (see WARNINGS ). The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use (see WARNINGS ). Nortriptyline hydrochloride is not recommended for children.
Warnings: WARNINGS Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Patients with major depressive disorder (MDD), both adult and pediatric, may experience worsening of their depression and/or the emergence of suicidal ideation and behavior (suicidality) or unusual changes in behavior, whether or not they are taking antidepressant medications, and this risk may persist until significant remission occurs. Suicide is a known risk of depression and certain other psychiatric disorders, and these disorders themselves are the strongest predictors of suicide. There has been a long-standing concern, however, that antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment. Pooled analyses of short-term placebo-controlled trials of antidepressant drugs (SSRIs and others) showed that these drugs increase the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents, and young adults (ages 18 to 24) with major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. Short-term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24; there was a reduction with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older. The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in children and adolescents with MDD, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 24 short-term trials of 9 antidepressant drugs in over 4400 patients. The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in adults with MDD or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 295 short-term trials (median duration of 2 months) of 11 antidepressant drugs in over 77,000 patients. There was considerable variation in risk of suicidality among drugs, but a tendency toward an increase in the younger patients for almost all drugs studied. There were differences in absolute risk of suicidality across the different indications, with the highest incidence in MDD. The risk differences (drug vs placebo), however, were relatively stable within age strata and across indications. These risk differences (drug-placebo difference in the number of cases of suicidality per 1000 patients treated) are provided in Table 1. No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. There were suicides in the adult trials, but the number was not sufficient to reach any conclusion about drug effect on suicide.It is unknown whether the suicidality risk extends to longer-term use, i.e., beyond several months. However, there is substantial evidence from placebo-controlled maintenance trials in adults with depression that the use of antidepressants can delay the recurrence of depression. All patients being treated with antidepressants for any indication should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening, suicidality, and unusual changes in behavior, especially during the initial few months of a course of drug therapy, or at times of dose changes, either increases or decreases. The following symptoms, anxiety, agitation, panic attacks, insomnia, irritability, hostility, aggressiveness, impulsivity, akathisia (psychomotor restlessness), hypomania, and mania, have been reported in adult and pediatric patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder as well as for other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric. Although a causal link between the emergence of such symptoms and either the worsening of depression and/or the emergence of suicidal impulses has not been established, there is concern that such symptoms may represent precursors to emerging suicidality. Consideration should be given to changing the therapeutic regimen, including possibly discontinuing the medication, in patients whose depression is persistently worse, or who are experiencing emergent suicidality or symptoms that might be precursors to worsening depression or suicidality, especially if these symptoms are severe, abrupt in onset, or were not part of the patient's presenting symptoms. Families and caregivers of patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder or other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric, should be alerted about the need to monitor patients for the emergence of agitation, irritability, unusual changes in behavior, and the other symptoms described above, as well as the emergence of suicidality, and to report such symptoms immediately to health care providers.Such monitoring should include daily observation by families and caregivers. Prescriptions for nortriptyline hydrochloride capsules should be written for the smallest quantity of capsules consistent with good patient management, in order to reduce the risk of overdose. Screening Patients for Bipolar Disorder A major depressive episode may be the initial presentation of bipolar disorder. It is generally believed (though not established in controlled trials) that treating such an episode with an antidepressant alone may increase the likelihood of precipitation of a mixed/manic episode in patients at risk for bipolar disorder. Whether any of the symptoms described above represent such a conversion is unknown. However, prior to initiating treatment with an antidepressant, patients with depressive symptoms should be adequately screened to determine if they are at risk for bipolar disorder; such screening should include a detailed psychiatric history, including a family history of suicide, bipolar disorder, and depression. It should be noted that nortriptyline hydrochloride capsules are not approved for use in treating bipolar depression. Patients with cardiovascular disease should be given nortriptyline hydrochloride only under close supervision because of the tendency of the drug to produce sinus tachycardia and to prolong the conduction time. Myocardial infarction, arrhythmia, and strokes have occurred. The antihypertensive action of guanethidine and similar agents may be blocked. Because of its anticholinergic activity, nortriptyline hydrochloride should be used with great caution in patients who have glaucoma or a history of urinary retention. Patients with a history of seizures should be followed closely when nortriptyline hydrochloride is administered, inasmuch as this drug is known to lower the convulsive threshold. Great care is required if nortriptyline hydrochloride is given to hyperthyroid patients or to those receiving thyroid medication, since cardiac arrhythmias may develop. Nortriptyline hydrochloride may impair the mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of hazardous tasks, such as operating machinery or driving a car; therefore, the patient should be warned accordingly. Excessive consumption of alcohol in combination with nortriptyline therapy may have a potentiating effect, which may lead to the danger of increased suicidal attempts or overdosage, especially in patients with histories of emotional disturbances or suicidal ideation. The concomitant administration of quinidine and nortriptyline may result in a significantly longer plasma half-life, higher AUC, and lower clearance of nortriptyline. Serotonin Syndrome The development of a potentially life-threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with SNRIs and SSRIs, including nortriptyline hydrochloride, alone but particularly with concomitant use of other serotonergic drugs (including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone, and St. John’s Wort) and with drugs that impair metabolism of serotonin (in particular, MAOIs, both those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular changes (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). Patients should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. The concomitant use of nortriptyline hydrochloride with MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders is contraindicated. Nortriptyline hydrochloride should also not be started in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. All reports with methylene blue that provided information on the route of administration involved intravenous administration in the dose range of 1 mg/kg to 8 mg/kg. No reports involved the administration of methylene blue by other routes (such as oral tablets or local tissue injection) or at lower doses. There may be circumstances when it is necessary to initiate treatment with an MAOI such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue in a patient taking nortriptyline hydrochloride. Nortriptyline hydrochloride should be discontinued before initiating treatment with the MAOI (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). If concomitant use of nortriptyline hydrochloride with other serotonergic drugs, including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, buspirone, tryptophan, and St. John’s Wort is clinically warranted, patients should be made aware of a potential increased risk for serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Treatment with nortriptyline hydrochloride and any concomitant serotonergic agents should be discontinued immediately if the above events occur and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated. Use in Pregnancy Safe use of nortriptyline hydrochloride during pregnancy and lactation has not been established; therefore, when the drug is administered to pregnant patients, nursing mothers, or women of childbearing potential, the potential benefits must be weighed against the possible hazards. Animal reproduction studies have yielded inconclusive results. image description The risk differences (drug vs. placebo), however, were relatively stable within age strata and across indications. These risk differences (drug-placebo difference in the number of cases of suicidality per 1000 patients treated) are provided in Table 1 . Table 1 Age Range Drug-Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo <18 14 additional cases 18-24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25-64 1 fewer case ≥65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. There were suicides in the adult trials, but the number was not sufficient to reach any conclusion about drug effect on suicide. It is unknown whether the suicidality risk extends to longer-term use, i.e., beyond several months. Families and caregivers of patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder or other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric, should be alerted about the need to monitor patients for the emergence of agitation, irritability, unusual changes in behavior, and the other symptoms described above, as well as the emergence of suicidality, and to report such symptoms immediately to health care providers. Such monitoring should include daily observation by families and caregivers. Prescriptions for nortriptyline hydrochloride should be written for the smallest quantity of capsules consistent with good patient management, in order to reduce the risk of overdose. It should be noted that nortriptyline hydrochloride is not approved for use in treating bipolar depression. Because of its anticholinergic activity, nortriptyline hydrochloride should be used with great caution in patients who have a history of urinary retention. John's Wort) and with drugs that impair metabolism of serotonin (in particular, MAOIs, both those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Nortriptyline hydrochloride should be discontinued before initiating treatment with the MAOI ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). John's Wort is clinically warranted, patients should be made aware of a potential increased risk for serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Unmasking of Brugada Syndrome There have been postmarketing reports of an association between treatment with nortriptyline hydrochloride and the unmasking of Brugada syndrome. Brugada syndrome is a disorder characterized by syncope, abnormal electrocardiographic (ECG) findings, and a risk of sudden death. Nortriptyline hydrochloride should generally be avoided in patients with Brugada syndrome or those suspected of having Brugada syndrome. Angle-Closure Glaucoma The pupillary dilation that occurs following use of many antidepressant drugs including nortriptyline hydrochloride may trigger an angle-closure attack in a patient with anatomically narrow angles who does not have a patent iridectomy. Table 1 Age Range Drug-Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo <18 14 additional cases 18 to 24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25 to 64 1 fewer case ≥65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. Nortriptyline hydrochloride should be discontinued before initiating treatment with the MAOI (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Unmasking Brugada Syndrome There have been postmarketing reports of an association between treatment with nortriptyline hydrochloride and the unmasking of Brugada syndrome. Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Patients with major depressive disorder (MDD), both adult and pediatric, may experience worsening of their depression and/or the emergence of suicidal ideation and behavior (suicidality) or unusual changes in behavior, whether or not they are taking antidepressant medications, and this risk may persist until significant remission occurs.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with nortriptyline hydrochloride or within 14 days of stopping treatment with nortriptyline hydrochloride is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of nortriptyline hydrochloride within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). Starting nortriptyline hydrochloride in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). Hypersensitivity to Tricyclic Antidepressants Cross-sensitivity between nortriptyline hydrochloride and other dibenzazepines is a possibility. Myocardial Infarction Nortriptyline hydrochloride is contraindicated during the acute recovery period after myocardial infarction. The use of nortriptyline hydrochloride within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated ( see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Starting nortriptyline hydrochloride in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome ( see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). The use of nortriptyline hydrochloride within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Starting nortriptyline hydrochloride in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with nortriptyline hydrochloride or within 14 days of stopping treatment with nortriptyline hydrochloride is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Administration of reserpine during therapy with a tricyclic antidepressant has been shown to produce a "stimulating" effect in some depressed patients. Close supervision and careful adjustment of the dosage are required when nortriptyline hydrochloride is used with other anticholinergic drugs and sympathomimetic drugs. Concurrent administration of cimetidine and tricyclic antidepressants can produce clinically significant increases in the plasma concentrations of the tricyclic antidepressant. The patient should be informed that the response to alcohol may be exaggerated. A case of significant hypoglycemia has been reported in a type II diabetic patient maintained on chlorpropamide (250 mg/day), after the addition of nortriptyline (125 mg/day). Drugs Metabolized by P450 2D6 The biochemical activity of the drug metabolizing isozyme cytochrome P450 2D6 (debrisoquin hydroxylase) is reduced in a subset of the Caucasian population (about 7% to 10% of Caucasians are so called "poor metabolizers"); reliable estimates of the prevalence of reduced P450 2D6 isozyme activity among Asian, African and other populations are not yet available. Poor metabolizers have higher than expected plasma concentrations of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) when given usual doses. Depending on the fraction of drug metabolized by P450 2D6, the increase in plasma concentration may be small, or quite large (8 fold increase in plasma AUC of the TCA). In addition, certain drugs inhibit the activity of this isozyme and make normal metabolizers resemble poor metabolizers. An individual who is stable on a given dose of TCA may become abruptly toxic when given one of these inhibiting drugs as concomitant therapy. The drugs that inhibit cytochrome P450 2D6 include some that are not metabolized by the enzyme (quinidine; cimetidine) and many that are substrates for P450 2D6 (many other antidepressants, phenothiazines, and the Type 1C antiarrhythmics propafenone and flecainide). While all the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), e.g., fluoxetine, sertraline, and paroxetine, inhibit P450 2D6, they may vary in the extent of inhibition. The extent to which SSRI TCA interactions may pose clinical problems will depend on the degree of inhibition and the pharmacokinetics of the SSRI involved. Nevertheless, caution is indicated in the co-administration of TCAs with any of the SSRIs and also in switching from one class to the other. Of particular importance, sufficient time must elapse before initiating TCA treatment in a patient being withdrawn from fluoxetine, given the long half-life of the parent and active metabolite (at least 5 weeks may be necessary). Concomitant use of tricyclic antidepressants with drugs that can inhibit cytochrome P450 2D6 may require lower doses than usually prescribed for either the tricyclic antidepressant or the other drug. Furthermore, whenever one of these other drugs is withdrawn from co-therapy, an increased dose of tricyclic antidepressant may be required. It is desirable to monitor TCA plasma levels whenever a TCA is going to be co-administered with another drug known to be an inhibitor of P450 2D6. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) ( See CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . ) Serotonergic Drugs ( See CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . ) Nevertheless, caution is indicated in the coadministration of TCAs with any of the SSRIs and also in switching from one class to the other. It is desirable to monitor TCA plasma levels whenever a TCA is going to be coadministered with another drug known to be an inhibitor of P450 2D6. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) (See CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Serotonergic Drugs (See CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .)

=== OFLOXACIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ofloxacin Otic Solution 0.3% is indicated for the treatment of infections caused by susceptible isolates of the designated microorganisms in the specific conditions listed below: Otitis Externa in adults and pediatric patients, 6 months and older, due to Escherichia coli , Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus. Chronic Suppurative Otitis Media in patients 12 years and older with perforated tympanic membranes due to Proteus mirabilis , Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus. Acute Otitis Media in pediatric patients one year and older with tympanostomy tubes due to Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pneumoniae . INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ofloxacin ophthalmic solution is indicated for the treatment of infections caused by susceptible strains of the following bacteria in the conditions listed below: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ofloxacin ophthalmic solution is indicated for the treatment of infections caused by susceptible strains of the following bacteria in the conditions listed below: CONJUNCTIVITIS: Gram-positive bacteria: Staphylococcus aureus Staphylococcus epidermidis Streptococcus pneumoniae Gram-negative bacteria: Enterobacter cloacae Haemophilus influenzae Proteus mirabilis Pseudomonas aeruginosa CORNEAL ULCERS: Gram-positive bacteria: Staphylococcus aureus Staphylococcus epidermidis Streptococcus pneumoniae Gram-negative bacteria: Pseudomonas aeruginosa Serratia marcescens* Anaerobic species: Propionibacterium acnes *Efficacy for this organism was studied in fewer than 10 infections. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ofloxacin ophthalmic solution is indicated for the treatment of infections caused by susceptible strains of the following bacteria in the conditions listed below: *Efficacy for this organism was studied in fewer than 10 infections CONJUNCTIVITIS: Gram-positive bacteria: Gram-negative bacteria: Staphylococcus aureus Enterobacter cloacae Staphylococcus epidermidis Haemophilus influenzae Streptococcus pneumoniae Proteus mirabilis Pseudomonas aeruginosa CORNEAL ULCERS: Gram-positive bacteria: Gram-negative bacteria: Staphylococcus aureus Pseudomonas aeruginosa Staphylococcus epidermidis Serratia marcescens* Streptococcus pneumoniae Anaerobic species: Propionibacterium acnes INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ofloxacin ophthalmic solution is indicated for the treatment of infections caused by susceptible strains of the following bacteria in the conditions listed below: *Efficacy for this organism was studied in fewer than 10 infections CONJUNCTIVITIS Gram-positive bacteria Gram-negative bacteria Staphylococcus aureus Enterobacter cloacae Staphylococcus epidermidis Haemophilus influenzae Streptococcus pneumoniae Proteus mirabilis Pseudomonas aeruginosa CORNEAL ULCERS Gram-positive bacteria Gram-negative bacteria Staphylococcus aureus Pseudomonas aeruginosa Staphylococcus epidermidis Serratia marcescens* Streptococcus pneumoniae Anaerobic species : Propionibacterium acnes INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ofloxacin otic solution 0.3% is indicated for the treatment of infections caused by susceptible isolates of the designated microorganisms in the specific conditions listed below: Otitis Externa in adults and pediatric patients, 6 months and older, due to Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Staphylococcus aureus. Chronic Suppurative Otitis Media in patients 12 years and older with perforated tympanic membranes due to Proteus mirabilis , Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Staphylococcus aureus . Acute Otitis Media in pediatric patients one year and older with tympanostomy tubes due to Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis , Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus, and Streptococcus pneumoniae . INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ofloxacin tablets, USP and other antibacterial drugs, ofloxacin tablets, USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. Ofloxacin tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of adults with mild to moderate infections (unless otherwise indicated) caused by susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms in the infections listed below. Please see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION for specific recommendations. Acute Bacterial Exacerbations of Chronic Bronchitis (ABECB) due to Haemophilus influenzae or Streptococcus pneumoniae . Because fluoroquinolones, including ofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions (see Warnings ), - and for some patients ABECB is self-limiting, reserve ofloxacin for treatment of ABECB in patients who have no alternative treatment options . Community-Acquired Pneumonia due to Haemophilus influenzae or Streptococcus pneumoniae . Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections due to methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pyogenes, or Proteus mirabilis. Acute, Uncomplicated Urethral and Cervical Gonorrhea due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae (see WARNINGS ). Nongonococcal Urethritis and Cervicitis due to Chlamydia trachomatis (see WARNINGS ). Mixed Infections of the Urethra and Cervix due to Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae (see WARNINGS ). Acute Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (including severe infection) due to Chlamydia trachomatis and/or Neisseria gonorrhoeae (see WARNINGS ). NOTE: If anaerobic microorganisms are suspected of contributing to the infection, appropriate therapy for anaerobic pathogens should be administered. Uncomplicated Cystitis due to Citrobacter diversus, Enterobacter aerogenes, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Proteus mirabilis, or Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Because fluoroquinolones, including ofloxacin, have been associated with serious adverse reactions (see WARNINGS ), and for some patients uncomplicated cystitis is self-limiting, reserve ofloxacin for treatment of uncomplicated cystitis in patients who have no alternative treatment options. Complicated Urinary Tract Infections due to Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Proteus mirabilis, Citrobacter diversus, = Although treatment of infections due to this organism in this organ system demonstrated a clinically significant outcome, efficacy was studied in fewer than 10 patients. or Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Prostatitis due to Escherichia coli. Appropriate culture and susceptibility tests should be performed before treatment in order to isolate and identify organisms causing the infection and to determine their susceptibility to ofloxacin, USP. Therapy with ofloxacin, USP may be initiated before results of these tests are known; once results become available, appropriate therapy should be continued. As with other drugs in this class, some strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa may develop resistance fairly rapidly during treatment with ofloxacin, USP. Culture and susceptibility testing performed periodically during therapy will provide information not only on the therapeutic effect of the antimicrobial agent but also on the possible emergence of bacterial resistance. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ofloxacin ophthalmic solution is indicated for the treatment of infections caused by susceptible strains of the following bacteria in the conditions listed below: CONJUNCTIVITIS : Gram - positive bacteria : Gram - negative bacteria : Staphylococcus aureus Enterobacter cloacae Staphylococcus epidermidis Haemophilus influenzae Streptococcus pneumoniae Proteus mirabilis Pseudomonas aeruginosa CORNEAL ULCERS : Gram - positive bacteria : Gram - negative bacteria : Staphylococcus aureus Pseudomonas aeruginosa Staphylococcus epidermidis Serratia marcescens * Streptococcus pneumoniae Anaerobic species : Propionibacterium acnes * Efficacy for this organism was studied in fewer than 10 infections
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Otitis Externa: The recommended dosage regimen for the treatment of otitis externa is: For pediatric patients (from 6 months to 13 years old): Five drops (0.25 mL, 0.75 mg ofloxacin) instilled into the affected ear once daily for seven days. For patients 13 years and older: Ten drops (0.5 mL, 1.5 mg ofloxacin) instilled into the affected ear once daily for seven days. The solution should be warmed by holding the bottle in the hand for one or two minutes to avoid dizziness which may result from the instillation of a cold solution. The patient should lie with the affected ear upward, and then the drops should be instilled. This position should be maintained for five minutes to facilitate penetration of the drops into the ear canal. Repeat, if necessary, for the opposite ear. Acute Otitis Media in pediatric patients with tympanostomy tubes: The recommended dosage regimen for the treatment of acute otitis media in pediatric patients (from 1 to 12 years old) with tympanostomy tubes is: Five drops (0.25 mL, 0.75 mg ofloxacin) instilled into the affected ear twice daily for ten days. The solution should be warmed by holding the bottle in the hand for one or two minutes to avoid dizziness that may result from the instillation of a cold solution. The tragus should then be pumped 4 times by pushing inward to facilitate penetration of the drops into the middle ear. This position should be maintained for five minutes. Chronic Suppurative Otitis Media with perforated tympanic membranes: The recommended dosage regimen for the treatment of chronic suppurative otitis media with perforated tympanic membranes in patients 12 years and older is: Ten drops (0.5 mL, 1.5 mg ofloxacin) instilled into the affected ear twice daily for fourteen days. The patient should lie with the affected ear upward, before instilling the drops. The tragus should then be pumped 4 times by pushing inward to facilitate penetration into the middle ear. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage regimen for the treatment of bacterial conjunctivitis is: Days 1 and 2 Instill one to two drops every two to four hours in the affected eye(s). Days 3 through 7 Instill one to two drops four times daily. The recommended dosage regimen for the treatment of bacterial corneal ulcer is: Days 1 and 2 Instill one to two drops into the affected eye every 30 minutes, while awake. Awaken at approximately four and six hours after retiring and instill one to two drops. Days 3 through 7 to 9 Instill one to two drops hourly, while awake. Days 7 to 9 through treatment completion Instill one to two drops, four times daily. Days 7 to 9 through Instill one to two drops, four times daily. treatment completion DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Otitis Externa The recommended dosage regimen for the treatment of otitis externa is: For pediatric patients (from 6 months to 13 years old): Five drops (0.25 mL, 0.75 mg ofloxacin) instilled into the affected ear once daily for seven days. Acute Otitis Media in Pediatric Patients with Tympanostomy Tubes The recommended dosage regimen for the treatment of acute otitis media in pediatric patients (from one to 12 years old) with tympanostomy tubes is: • Five drops (0.25 mL, 0.75 mg ofloxacin) instilled into the affected ear twice daily for ten days. Chronic Suppurative Otitis Media with Perforated Tympanic Membranes The recommended dosage regimen for the treatment of chronic suppurative otitis media with perforated tympanic membranes in patients 12 years and older is: • Ten drops (0.5 mL, 1.5 mg ofloxacin) instilled into the affected ear twice daily for fourteen days. Otitis Externa The recommended dosage regimen for the treatment of otitis externa is: For pediatric patients (from 6 months to 13 years old): Five drops (0.25 mL, 0.75 mg ofloxacin) instilled into the affected ear once daily for seven days. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual dose of ofloxacin tablets is 200 mg to 400 mg orally every 12 h as described in the following dosing chart. These recommendations apply to patients with normal renal function (i.e., creatinine clearance > 50 mL/min). For patients with altered renal function (i.e., creatinine clearance ≤ 50 mL/min), see the Patients With Impaired Renal Function subsection. Infection DUE TO THE DESIGNATED PATHOGENS (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ). Unit Dose Frequency Duration Daily Dose Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis 400 mg q12h 10 days 800 mg Comm. Acquired Pneumonia 400 mg q12h 10 days 800 mg Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections 400 mg q12h 10 days 800 mg Acute, Uncomplicated Urethral and Cervical Gonorrhea 400 mg single dose 1 day 400 mg Nongonococcal Cervicitis/Urethritis due to C. trachomatis 300 mg q12h 7 days 600 mg Mixed Infection of the Urethra and Cervix due to C. trachomatis and N. gonorrhoeae 300 mg q12h 7 days 600 mg Acute Pelvic Inflammatory Disease 400 mg q12h 10 to 14 days 800 mg Uncomplicated Cystitis due to E. coli or K. pneumoniae 200 mg q12h 3 days 400 mg Uncomplicated Cystitis due to Other Approved Pathogens 200 mg q12h 7 days 400 mg Complicated UTI's 200 mg q12h 10 days 400 mg Prostatitis due to E. coli 300 mg q12h 6 weeks 600 mg Antacids containing calcium, magnesium, or aluminum; sucralfate; divalent or trivalent cations such as iron; or multivitamins containing zinc; or didanosine, chewable/buffered tablets or the pediatric powder for oral solution should not be taken within the two-hour period before or within the two-hour period after taking ofloxacin (see PRECAUTIONS ). Patients With Impaired Renal Function Dosage should be adjusted for patients with a creatinine clearance ≤ 50 mL/min. After a normal initial dose , dosage should be adjusted as follows: Creatinine Clearance Maintenance Dose Frequency 20 to 50 mL/min the usual recommended unit dose q24h < 20 mL/min ½ the usual recommended unit dose q24h When only the serum creatinine is known, the following formula may be used to estimate creatinine clearance. Women: 0.85 × the value calculated for men. The serum creatinine should represent a steady-state of renal function. Figure Patients With Cirrhosis The excretion of ofloxacin may be reduced in patients with severe liver function disorders (e.g., cirrhosis with or without ascites). A maximum dose of 400 mg of ofloxacin per day should therefore not be exceeded. treatment completion DO NOT Days 7 to 9 throughtreatment completion Instill one to two drops, four times daily.
Warnings: WARNINGS NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE. NOT FOR INJECTION. Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions, some following the first dose, have been reported in patients receiving systemic quinolones, including ofloxacin. Some reactions were accompanied by cardiovascular collapse, loss of consciousness, angioedema (including laryngeal, pharyngeal or facial edema), airway obstruction, dyspnea, urticaria, and itching. If an allergic reaction to ofloxacin is suspected, stop the drug. Serious acute hypersensitivity reactions may require immediate emergency treatment. Oxygen and airway management, including intubation, should be administered as clinically indicated. WARNINGS NOT FOR INJECTION. Ofloxacin ophthalmic solution should not be injected subconjunctivally, nor should it be introduced directly into the anterior chamber of the eye. There are rare reports of anaphylactic reaction/shock and fatal hypersensitivity reactions in patients receiving systemic quinolones, some following the first dose, including ofloxacin. A rare occurrence of Stevens-Johnson syndrome, which progressed to toxic epidermal necrolysis, has been reported in a patient who was receiving topical ophthalmic ofloxacin. If an allergic reaction to ofloxacin occurs, discontinue the drug. Oxygen and airway management, including intubation should be administered as clinically indicated. WARNINGS Disabling and Potentially Irreversible Serious Adverse Reactions Including Tendinitis and Tendon Rupture, Peripheral Neuropathy, and Central Nervous System Effects Fluoroquinolones, including ofloxacin, have been associated with disabling and potentially irreversible serious adverse reactions from different body systems that can occur together in the same patient. Commonly seen adverse reactions include tendinitis, tendon rupture, arthralgia, myalgia, peripheral neuropathy, and central nervous system effects (hallucinations, anxiety, depression, insomnia, severe headaches, and confusion). These reactions can occur within hours to weeks after starting ofloxacin. Patients of any age or without pre-existing risk factors have experienced these adverse reactions (see Warnings ) Discontinue ofloxacin immediately at the first signs or symptoms of any serious adverse reaction. In addition, avoid the use of fluoroquinolones, including ofloxacin, in patients who have experienced any of these serious adverse reactions associated with fluoroquinolones. Tendinitis and Tendon Rupture Fluoroquinolones, including ofloxacin, have been associated with an increased risk of tendinitis and tendon rupture in all ages. This adverse reaction most frequently involves the Achilles tendon, and rupture of the Achilles tendon and has been reported with the rotator cuff (the shoulder), the hand, the biceps, the thumb, and other tendons. Tendinitis or tendon rupture can occur within hours or days of starting ofloxacin, or as long as several months after completion of fluoroquinolone therapy. Tendinitis and tendon rupture can occur bilaterally. The risk of developing fluoroquinolone-associated tendinitis and tendon rupture is increased in patients over 60 years of age, in those taking corticosteroid drugs, and in patients with kidney, heart or lung transplants. Other factors that may independently increase the risk of tendon rupture include strenuous physical activity, renal failure, and previous tendon disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis. Tendinitis and tendon rupture have been reported in patients taking fluoroquinolones who do not have the above risk factors. Discontinue ofloxacin immediately if the patient experiences pain, swelling, inflammation or rupture of a tendon. Avoid fluoroquinolones, including ofloxacin, in patients who have a history of tendon disorders or have experienced tendinitis or tendon rupture (see Adverse Reactions ). Patients should be advised to rest at the first sign of tendinitis or tendon rupture, and to contact their healthcare provider regarding changing to a non-quinolone antimicrobial drug. Peripheral Neuropathy Fluoroquinolones, including ofloxacin, have been associated with an increased risk of peripheral neuropathy. Cases of sensory or sensorimotor axonal polyneuropathy affecting small and/or large axons resulting in paresthesias, hypoesthesias, dysesthesias and weakness have been reported in patients receiving fluoroquinolones, including ofloxacin. Symptoms may occur soon after initiation of norfloxacin and may be irreversible in some patients (see WARNINGS ). Discontinue ofloxacin immediately if the patient experiences symptoms of peripheral neuropathy including pain, burning, tingling, numbness, and/or weakness, or other alterations in sensations including light touch, pain, temperature, position sense and vibratory sensation, and/or motor strength in order to minimize the development of an irreversible condition. Avoid fluoroquinolones, including ofloxacin, in patients who have previously experienced peripheral neuropathy (see Adverse Reactions ) Central Nervous System Effects Psychiatric Adverse Reactions Fluoroquinolones, including ofloxacin, have been associated with an increased risk of psychiatric adverse reactions toxic psychoses or hallucinations; agitation; delirium, confusion, disorientation, or disturbances in attention; nervousness or restlessness, memory impairment. If these reactions occur in patients receiving ofloxacin, the drug should be discontinued and appropriate measures instituted. Central Nervous System Adverse Reactions Fluoroquinolones have been associated with an increased risk of seizures (convulsions), increased intracranial pressure (pseudotumor cerebri), lightheadedness, or tremors. The effects of ofloxacin on brain function or on the electrical activity of the brain have not been tested. Therefore, until more information becomes available, ofloxacin, like all other quinolones, should be used with caution in patients with known or suspected CNS disorders, such as severe cerebral arteriosclerosis, epilepsy, and other factors which predispose to seizures (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Exacerbation of Myasthenia Gravis Fluoroquinolones, including ofloxacin, have neuromuscular blocking activity and may exacerbate muscle weakness in persons with myasthenia gravis. Postmarketing serious adverse events, including deaths and requirement for ventilatory support, have been associated with fluoroquinolone use in persons with myasthenia gravis. Avoid ofloxacin in patients with known history of myasthenia gravis (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients and ADVERSE REACTIONS, Postmarketing Adverse Events ). THE SAFETY AND EFFICACY OF OFLOXACIN IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS AND ADOLESCENTS (UNDER THE AGE OF 18 YEARS), PREGNANT WOMEN, AND LACTATING WOMEN HAVE NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED (see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use , Pregnancy , and Nursing Mothers Subsections). In the immature rat, the oral administration of ofloxacin at 5 to 16 times the recommended maximum human dose based on mg/kg or 1 to 3 times based on mg/m 2 increased the incidence and severity of osteochondrosis. The lesions did not regress after 13 weeks of drug withdrawal. Other quinolones also produce similar erosions in the weight-bearing joints and other signs of arthropathy in immature animals of various species ( see ANIMAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Hypersensitivity Reactions Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity and/or anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients receiving therapy with quinolones, including ofloxacin. These reactions often occur following the first dose. Some reactions have been accompanied by cardiovascular collapse, hypotension/shock, seizure, loss of consciousness, tingling, angioedema (including tongue, laryngeal, throat, or facial edema/swelling), airway obstruction (including bronchospasm, shortness of breath, and acute respiratory distress), dyspnea, urticaria, itching, and other serious skin reactions. This drug should be discontinued immediately at the first appearance of a skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Serious acute hypersensitivity reactions may require treatment with epinephrine and other resuscitative measures, including oxygen, intravenous fluids, antihistamines, corticosteroids, pressor amines, and airway management, as clinically indicated (see PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Other serious and sometimes fatal events, some due to hypersensitivity, and some due to uncertain etiology, have been reported rarely in patients receiving therapy with quinolones, including ofloxacin. These events may be severe and generally occur following the administration of multiple doses. Clinical manifestations may include one or more of the following: fever, rash, or severe dermatologic reactions (e.g., toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome); vasculitis; arthralgia; myalgia; serum sickness; allergic pneumonitis; interstitial nephritis; acute renal insufficiency or failure; hepatitis; jaundice; acute hepatic necrosis or failure; anemia, including hemolytic and aplastic; thrombocytopenia, including thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura; leukopenia; agranulocytosis; pancytopenia; and/or other hematologic abnormalities. The drug should be discontinued immediately at the first appearance of skin rash, jaundice, or any other sign of hypersensitivity and supportive measures instituted (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including ofloxacin tablets, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C. difficile . C. difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD. Hypertoxin producing strains of C. difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality, as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use. Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents. If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C. difficile may need to be discontinued. Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibiotic treatment of C. difficile, and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Risk of Aortic Aneurysm and Dissection Fluoroquinolones, including ofloxacin, have been associated with aortic aneurysm and dissection. Findings from epidemiologic studies show a consistently increased risk of hospitalization for aortic aneurysm or dissection within two months following use of a fluoroquinolone antibacterial drug. The annual estimated background risk of aortic aneurysm is as high as approximately 300 aortic aneurysm events per 100,000 persons at the highest risk (e.g., age greater than 85 years). The evidence shows the potential for a 2-fold increased risk over the background risk following fluoroquinolone exposure and was based on a small number of cases, mostly in older patients. The cause for the risk of aortic aneurysm or dissection has not been identified, but the available data suggest that use of fluoroquinolones may contribute in the short term to aneurysm progression. In patients with a known aortic aneurysm or patients who are at greater risk for aortic aneurysms, reserve ofloxacin, for use only when there are no alternative antibacterial treatments available. Ofloxacin has not been shown to be effective in the treatment of syphilis. Fluoroquinolones have been associated with disturbances of blood glucose, including symptomatic hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia, usually in diabetic patients receiving concomitant treatment with an oral hypoglycemic agent (e.g., glyburide) or with insulin. In these patients, careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended. Severe cases of hypoglycemia resulting in coma or death have been reported. If a hypoglycemic reaction occurs in a patient being treated with ofloxacin, discontinue ofloxacin and initiate appropriate therapy immediately. Antimicrobial agents used in high doses for short periods of time to treat gonorrhea may mask or delay the symptoms of incubating syphilis. All patients with gonorrhea should have a serologic test for syphilis at the time of diagnosis. Patients treated with ofloxacin for gonorrhea should have a follow-up serologic test for syphilis after three months and, if positive, treatment with an appropriate antimicrobial should be instituted. There are rare reports of anaphylactic reaction /shock and fatal hypersensitivity reactions in patients receiving systemic quinolones, some following the first dose, including ofloxacin.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Ofloxacin Otic Solution 0.3% is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to ofloxacin, to other quinolones, or to any of the components in this medication. CONTRAINDICATIONS Ofloxacin ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to ofloxacin, to other quinolones, or to any of the components in this medication (see WARNINGS ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Ofloxacin ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to ofloxacin, to other quinolones, or to any of the components in this medication ( see ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Ofloxacin ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to ofloxacin, to other quinolones, or to any of the components in this medication ( see Warnings) . CONTRAINDICATIONS Ofloxacin ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to ofloxacin, to other quinolones, or to any of the components in this medication ( see Warnings ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Ofloxacin tablets are contraindicated in persons with a history of hypersensitivity associated with the use of ofloxacin or any member of the quinolone group of antimicrobial agents. CONTRAINDICATIONS Ofloxacin Ophthalmic Solution is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to ofloxacin, to other quinolones, or to any of the components in this medication (see Warnings).
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions: Specific drug interaction studies have not been conducted with Ofloxacin Otic Solution 0.3%. Drug Interactions: Specific drug interaction studies have not been conducted with ofloxacin ophthalmic solution. However, the systemic administration of some quinolones has been shown to elevate plasma concentrations of theophylline, interfere with the metabolism of caffeine, and enhance the effects of the oral anticoagulant warfarin and its derivatives, and has been associated with transient elevations in serum creatinine in patients receiving cyclosporine concomitantly. Drug Interactions Specific drug interaction studies have not been conducted with ofloxacin ophthalmic solution. Drug Interactions Specific drug interaction studies have not been conducted with ofloxacin otic solution. Drug Interactions Antacids, Sucralfate, Metal Cations, Multivitamins Quinolones form chelates with alkaline earth and transition metal cations. Administration of quinolones with antacids containing calcium, magnesium, or aluminum, with sucralfate, with divalent or trivalent cations such as iron, or with multivitamins containing zinc or with didanosine, chewable/buffered tablets or the pediatric powder for oral solution may substantially interfere with the absorption of quinolones resulting in systemic levels considerably lower than desired. These agents should not be taken within the two-hour period before or within the two-hour period after ofloxacin administration (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Caffeine Interactions between ofloxacin and caffeine have not been detected. Cimetidine Cimetidine has demonstrated interference with the elimination of some quinolones. This interference has resulted in significant increases in half-life and AUC of some quinolones. The potential for interaction between ofloxacin and cimetidine has not been studied. Cyclosporine Elevated serum levels of cyclosporine have been reported with concomitant use of cyclosporine with some other quinolones. The potential for interaction between ofloxacin and cyclosporine has not been studied. Drugs Metabolized by Cytochrome P450 Enzymes Most quinolone antimicrobial drugs inhibit cytochrome P450 enzyme activity. This may result in a prolonged half-life for some drugs that are also metabolized by this system (e.g., cyclosporine, theophylline/methylxanthines, warfarin) when coadministered with quinolones. The extent of this inhibition varies among different quinolones. (see other Drug Interactions ). Non Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs The concomitant administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug with a quinolone, including ofloxacin, may increase the risk of CNS stimulation and convulsive seizures (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS, General ). Probenecid The concomitant use of probenecid with certain other quinolones has been reported to affect renal tubular secretion. The effect of probenecid on the elimination of ofloxacin has not been studied. Theophylline Steady-state theophylline levels may increase when ofloxacin and theophylline are administered concurrently. As with other quinolones, concomitant administration of ofloxacin may prolong the half-life of theophylline, elevate serum theophylline levels, and increase the risk of theophylline-related adverse reactions. Theophylline levels should be closely monitored and theophylline dosage adjustments made, if appropriate, when ofloxacin is coadministered. Adverse reactions (including seizures) may occur with or without an elevation in the serum theophylline level. (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS, General ) Warfarin Some quinolones have been reported to enhance the effects of the oral anticoagulant warfarin or its derivatives. Therefore, if a quinolone antimicrobial is administered concomitantly with warfarin or its derivatives, the prothrombin time or other suitable coagulation test should be closely monitored. Antidiabetic Agents (e.g., Insulin, Glyburide/Glibenclamide) Since disturbances of blood glucose, including hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia, have been reported in patients treated concurrently with quinolones and an antidiabetic agent, careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended when these agents are used concomitantly (see PRECAUTIONS, General and Information for Patients ).

=== VALSARTAN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ENTRESTO is a combination of sacubitril, a neprilisin inhibitor, and valsartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker, and is indicated: to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death and hospitalization for heart failure in adult patients with chronic heart failure. Benefits are most clearly evident in patients with left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) below normal. ( 1.1 ) for the treatment of symptomatic heart failure with systemic left ventricular systolic dysfunction in pediatric patients aged one year and older. ENTRESTO reduces NT-proBNP and is expected to improve cardiovascular outcomes. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Adult Heart Failure ENTRESTO is indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death and hospitalization for heart failure in adult patients with chronic heart failure. LVEF is a variable measure, so use clinical judgment in deciding whom to treat [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] . 1.2 Pediatric Heart Failure ENTRESTO is indicated for the treatment of symptomatic heart failure with systemic left ventricular systolic dysfunction in pediatric patients aged one year and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Valsartan tablets are an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) indicated for: Hypertension ,to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions ( 1.1 ) Heart failure (NYHA class II-IV); valsartan tablets significantly reduced hospitalization for heart failure ( 1.2 ) Post-myocardial infarction ; for the reduction of cardiovascular mortality in clinically stable patients with left ventricular failure or left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Hypertension Valsartan tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure in adults and pediatric patients six years of age and older. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including the class to which valsartan principally belongs. There are no controlled trials in hypertensive patients demonstrating risk reduction with valsartan tablets. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (e.g., patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. Valsartan tablets may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. Additional pediatric use information is approved for Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation's Diovan (valsartan) tablets. However, due to Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information 1.2 Heart Failure Valsartan tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of hospitalization for heart failure in patients with heart failure (NYHA class II-IV). There is no evidence that valsartan tablets provide added benefits when they are used with an adequate dose of an ACE inhibitor [See Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . 1.3 Post-Myocardial Infarction In clinically stable patients with left ventricular failure or left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction, valsartan tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality [See Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Valsartan tablets are an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) indicated for: Hypertension, to lower blood pressure in adults and children 1 year and older. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions ( 1.1 ) Heart failure (NYHA class II-IV), to reduce hospitalization for heart failure in adults ( 1.2 ) Post-myocardial infarction , for the reduction of cardiovascular mortality in clinically stable patients with left ventricular failure or left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction in adults ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Hypertension Valsartan tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure in adults and pediatric patients one year of age and older. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes, including the class to which valsartan principally belongs. 1.2 Heart Failure Valsartan tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of hospitalization for heart failure in adult patients with heart failure (NYHA class II-IV). There is no evidence that valsartan tablets provide added benefits when it is used with an adequate dose of an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor [ see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1.3 Post-Myocardial Infarction In clinically stable adult patients with left ventricular failure or left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction, valsartan tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality [ see Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Valsartan tablets are an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) indicated for: • Hypertension , to lower blood pressure in adults and children 1 year and older. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions ( 1.1 ) • Heart failure (NYHA class II to IV), to reduce hospitalization for heart failure in adults ( 1.2 ) • Post-myocardial infarction , for the reduction of cardiovascular mortality in clinically stable patients with left ventricular failure or left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction in adults ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Hypertension Valsartan tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure in adults and pediatric patients one year of age and older. 1.2 Heart Failure Valsartan tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of hospitalization for heart failure in adult patients with heart failure (NYHA class II to IV). There is no evidence that valsartan tablets provides added benefits when it is used with an adequate dose of an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. 1.3 Post-Myocardial Infarction In clinically stable adult patients with left ventricular failure or left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction, valsartan tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Valsartan tablet is an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) indicated for: Hypertension, to lower blood pressure in adults and children 1 year and older. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions ( 1.1 ) Heart failure (NYHA class II-IV),to reduce hospitalization for heart failure in adults ( 1.2 ) Post-myocardial infarction, for the reduction of cardiovascular mortality in clinically stable patients with left ventricular failure or left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction in adults ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Hypertension Valsartan tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure in adults and pediatric patients one year of age and older. 1.3 Post-Myocardial Infarction In clinically stable adult patients with left ventricular failure or left ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction, valsartan tablet is indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes, including hydrochlorothiazide and the angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) class to which valsartan principally belongs. There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality have also been seen regularly. Add-On Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be used in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on monotherapy. Replacement Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be substituted for the titrated components. Initial Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be used as initial therapy in patients who are likely to need multiple drugs to achieve blood pressure goals. The choice of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as initial therapy for hypertension should be based on an assessment of potential benefits and risks. Patients with stage 2 hypertension are at a relatively high risk for cardiovascular events (such as strokes, heart attacks, and heart failure), kidney failure, and vision problems, so prompt treatment is clinically relevant. The decision to use a combination as initial therapy should be individualized and should be shaped by considerations such as baseline blood pressure, the target goal, and the incremental likelihood of achieving goal with a combination compared to monotherapy. Individual blood pressure goals may vary based upon the patient’s risk. Data from the high dose multifactorial trial [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] provides estimates of the probability of reaching a target blood pressure with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets compared to valsartan or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy. The figures below provide estimates of the likelihood of achieving systolic or diastolic blood pressure control with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 320 mg/25 mg, based upon baseline systolic or diastolic blood pressure. The curve of each treatment group was estimated by logistic regression modeling. The estimated likelihood at the right tail of each curve is less reliable due to small numbers of subjects with high baseline blood pressures. Figure 1: Probability of Achieving Systolic Blood Pressure <140 mmHg at Week 8 Figure 2: Probability of Achieving Diastolic Blood Pressure <90 mmHg at Week 8 Figure 3: Probability of Achieving Systolic Blood Pressure <130 mmHg at Week 8 Figure 4: Probability of Achieving Diastolic Blood Pressure <80 mmHg at Week 8 For example, a patient with a baseline blood pressure of 160/100 mmHg has about a 41% likelihood of achieving a goal of < 140 mmHg (systolic) and 60% likelihood of achieving < 90 mmHg (diastolic) on valsartan alone and the likelihood of achieving these goals on HCTZ alone is about 50% (systolic) or 57% (diastolic). The likelihood of achieving these goals on valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets rises to about 84% (systolic) or 80% (diastolic). The likelihood of achieving these goals on placebo is about 23% (systolic) or 36% (diastolic). Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablet is the combination tablet of valsartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ), a diuretic. Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure: In patients not adequately controlled with monotherapy. (1) As initial therapy in patients likely to need multiple drugs to achieve their blood pressure goals. (1) Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. Figure 1 Figure 2 Figure 3 Figure 4 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sacubitril and valsartan tablets are a combination of sacubitril, a neprilisin inhibitor, and valsartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker, and sacubitril and valsartan tablets are indicated: • to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death and hospitalization for heart failure in adult patients with chronic heart failure. ( 1.1 ) • for the treatment of symptomatic heart failure with systemic left ventricular systolic dysfunction in pediatric patients aged one year and older. Sacubitril and Valsartan reduces NT-proBNP and is expected to improve cardiovascular outcomes. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Adult Heart Failure Sacubitril and valsartan tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death and hospitalization for heart failure in adult patients with chronic heart failure. LVEF is a variable measure, so use clinical judgment in deciding whom to treat [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . 1.2 Pediatric Heart Failure Sacubitril and valsartan tablets are indicated for the treatment of symptomatic heart failure with systemic left ventricular systolic dysfunction in pediatric patients aged one year and older. Sacubitril and valsartan tablets reduces NT-proBNP and is expected to improve cardiovascular outcomes. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension e.g., patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Replacement Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tabletsmay be substituted for the titrated components. The decision to use a combination as initial therapy should be individualized and should be shaped by considerations such as baseline blood pressure, the target goal and the incremental likelihood of achieving goal with a combination compared to monotherapy. Individual blood pressure goals may vary based upon the patient's risk. Data from the high dose multifactorial trial [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] provides estimates of the probability of reaching a target blood pressure with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets compared to valsartan or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy. The figures below provide estimates of the likelihood of achieving systolic or diastolic blood pressure control with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 320/25 mg, based upon baseline systolic or diastolic blood pressure. For example, a patient with a baseline blood pressure of 160/100 mmHg has about a 41% likelihood of achieving a goal of <140 mmHg (systolic) and 60% likelihood of achieving <90 mmHg (diastolic) on valsartan alone and the likelihood of achieving these goals on HCTZ alone is about 50% (systolic) or 57% (diastolic). Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are combination of valsartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ), a diuretic. Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure: In patients not adequately controlled with monotherapy ( 1 ) As initial therapy in patients likely to need multiple drugs to achieve their blood pressure goals ( 1 ). Figure 1 Figure 2-3-4
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended starting dosage for adults is 49 mg/51 mg orally twice daily. The target maintenance dose is 97 mg/103mg orally twice daily. ( 2.2 ) Adjust adult doses every 2 to 4 weeks to the target maintenance dose, as tolerated by the patient. ( 2.2 ) For pediatric patients, see the Full Prescribing Information for recommended dosage, titrations, preparation and administration instructions. ( 2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 ) Reduce starting dose to half the usually recommended starting dosage for: patients not currently taking an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor or angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) or previously taking a low dose of these agents. ( 2.6 ) patients with severe renal impairment. ( 2.7 ) patients with moderate hepatic impairment. ( 2.8 ) 2.1 General Considerations ENTRESTO is contraindicated with concomitant use of an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. If switching from an ACE inhibitor to ENTRESTO allow a washout period of 36 hours between administration of the two drugs [see Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7.1)] . 2.2 Adult Heart Failure The recommended starting dose of ENTRESTO is 49/51 mg orally twice-daily. Double the dose of ENTRESTO after 2 to 4 weeks to the target maintenance dose of 97/103 mg twice daily, as tolerated by the patient. 2.3 Pediatric Heart Failure For the recommended dosage for pediatric patients aged 1 year and older, refer to Table 1 if using the tablets, or Table 2 if using the oral pellets. Take the recommended dose orally twice daily. Adjust pediatric patient doses every 2 weeks, as tolerated by the patient. Table 1: Recommended Dose and Titration for Pediatric Patients Using Tablets † Use of the oral suspension or oral pellets (see Table 2) is recommended in these patients. Recommended mg/kg doses are of the combined amount of both sacubitril and valsartan [see Dosage and Administration (2.4, 2.5)] . ‡ Doses of 72 mg/78 mg can be achieved using three 24 mg/26 mg tablets [see Dosage Forms and Strengths (3)] . Titration Step Dose (twice daily) Weight (kg) Starting Second Final Less than 40 kg † 1.6 mg/kg 2.3 mg/kg 3.1 mg/kg At least 40 kg, less than 50 kg 24 mg/26 mg 49 mg/51 mg 72 mg/78 mg ‡ At least 50 kg 49 mg/51 mg 72 mg/78 mg ‡ 97 mg/103 mg Table 2: Recommended Dose and Titration for Pediatric Patients using ENTRESTO SPRINKLE † † When using capsules, more than one capsule may be needed to achieve recommended doses. Oral pellets are contained within each capsule. Use the entire contents of the capsules to achieve the dose. ‡ Recommended mg/kg doses are of the combined amount of sacubitril and valsartan [see Dosage and administration (2.4)] . * For patients 50 kg or more, see Table 1. Titration Step Dose (twice daily) Weight (kg) * Starting Second Final Less than 13 (use oral suspension ‡ ) 1.6 mg/kg 2.3 mg/kg 3.1 mg/kg 13 to less than 19 12 mg/12 mg (Two 6 mg/6 mg capsules) 18 mg/18 mg (Three 6 mg/6 mg capsules) 24 mg/24 mg (Four 6 mg/6 mg capsules) 19 to less than 26 18 mg/18 mg (Three 6 mg/6 mg capsules) 24 mg/24 mg (Four 6 mg/6 mg capsules) 30 mg/32 mg (Two 15 mg/16 mg capsules) 26 to less than 34 24 mg/24 mg (Four 6 mg/6 mg capsules) 30 mg/32 mg (Two 15 mg/16 mg capsules) 45 mg/48 mg (Three 15 mg/16 mg capsules) 34 to less than 50 * 30 mg/32 mg (Two 15 mg/16 mg capsules) 45 mg/48 mg (Three 15 mg/16 mg capsules) 60 mg/64 mg (Four 15 mg/16 mg capsules) 2.4 Preparation of Oral Suspension Using Tablets ENTRESTO oral suspension can be substituted at the recommended tablet dosage in patients unable to swallow tablets. ENTRESTO 800 mg/200 mL oral suspension can be prepared in a concentration of 4 mg/mL (sacubitril/valsartan 1.96/2.04 mg/mL). Use ENTRESTO 49/51 mg tablets in the preparation of the suspension. To make an 800 mg/200 mL (4 mg/mL) oral suspension, transfer eight tablets of ENTRESTO 49/51 mg film-coated tablets into a mortar. Crush the tablets into a fine powder using a pestle. Add 60 mL of Ora-Plus ® into the mortar and triturate gently with pestle for 10 minutes, to form a uniform suspension. Add 140 mL of Ora-Sweet ® SF into mortar and triturate with pestle for another 10 minutes, to form a uniform suspension. Transfer the entire contents from the mortar into a clean 200 mL amber colored PET or glass bottle. Place a press-in bottle adapter and close the bottle with a child resistant cap. The oral suspension can be stored for up to 15 days. Do not store above 25°C (77°F) and do not refrigerate. Shake before each use. * Ora-Sweet SF ® and Ora-Plus ® are registered trademarks of Paddock Laboratories, Inc. 2.5 Preparation and Administration of Oral Pellets ENTRESTO SPRINKLE are oral pellets contained within capsules. Do not swallow the capsules. Do not chew or crush the oral pellets. ENTRESTO SPRINKLE can also be substituted in patients unable to swallow tablets. To administer ENTRESTO oral pellets, open the capsule and sprinkle the full content onto 1 to 2 teaspoons of soft food. Consume the food containing the oral pellets immediately after adding them. Empty capsule shells must be discarded after use and not swallowed. Do not administer ENTRESTO oral pellets via nasogastric, gastrostomy, or other enteral tubes because it may cause obstruction of enteral tubes. 2.6 Dose Adjustment for Patients Not Taking an ACE inhibitor or ARB or Previously Taking Low Doses of These Agents In patients not currently taking an ACE inhibitor or an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and for patients previously taking low doses of these agents, start ENTRESTO at half the usually recommended starting dose. After initiation, increase the dose every 2 to 4 weeks in adults and every 2 weeks in pediatric patients to follow the recommended dose escalation thereafter [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.3)] . Note: Initiate pediatric patients weighing 40 to 50 kg who meet this criterion at 0.8 mg/kg twice daily using the oral suspension or oral pellets [see Dosage and Administration (2.3, 2.4, 2.5)] . 2.7 Dose Adjustment for Severe Renal Impairment In adults and pediatric patients with severe renal impairment estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), start ENTRESTO at half the usually recommended starting dose. After initiation, increase the dose to follow the recommended dose escalation thereafter [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.3)] . No starting dose adjustment is needed for mild or moderate renal impairment. 2.8 Dose Adjustment for Hepatic Impairment In adults and pediatric patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B classification), start ENTRESTO at half the usually recommended starting dose. No starting dose adjustment is needed for mild hepatic impairment. Use in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Starting Dose Dose Range * Adult Hypertension ( 2.2 ) 80 or 160 mg once daily 80-320 mg once daily 6-16 years ( 2.3 ) 1mg/kg once daily (up to 40 mg total) 1-4mg/kg once daily (up to 160 mg total) Heart Failure ( 2.4 ) 40 mg twice daily 40-160 mg twice daily Post-Myocardial Infarction ( 2.5 ) 20 mg twice daily 20-160 mg twice daily * As tolerated by patient 2.1 Important Dosage and Preparation Information Valsartan tablets and oral suspension are not substitutable on a milligram-per-milligram basis. Do not combine two dosage forms to achieve the total dose. The systemic exposure to valsartan (AUC) is 60% higher with the suspension compared to tablets [ S ee Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Use of the oral suspension is recommended: in patients ≥ 6 years of age who cannot swallow tablets and in pediatric patients for whom the calculated dose (mg/kg) does not correspond to the available tablet strengths of valsartan tablets When switching between suspension and tablets, the dose of valsartan may need to be adjusted. Preparation of Suspension (for 160 mL of a 4 mg/mL suspension) Add 80 mL of Ora-Plus ® * oral suspending vehicle to an amber glass bottle containing 8 valsartan 80 mg tablets and shake for a minimum of 2 minutes. Allow the suspension to stand for a minimum of 1 hour. After the standing time, shake the suspension for a minimum of 1 additional minute. Add 80 mL of Ora-Sweet SF ® * oral sweetening vehicle to the bottle and shake the suspension for at least 10 seconds to disperse the ingredients. The suspension is homogenous and can be stored for either up to 30 days at room temperature (below 30°C/86°F) or up to 75 days at refrigerated conditions (2°C to 8°C/35°F to 46°F) in the glass bottle with a child-resistant screw-cap closure. Shake the bottle well (at least 10 seconds) prior to dispensing the suspension *Ora-Sweet SF ® and Ora-Plus ® are registered trademarks of Paddock Laboratories, Inc. Additional pediatric use information is approved for Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation's Diovan (valsartan) tablets. However, due to Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information 2.2 Adult Hypertension The recommended starting dose of valsartan tablets is 80 mg or 160 mg once daily when used as monotherapy in patients who are not volume-depleted. Patients requiring greater reductions may be started at the higher dose. Valsartan tablets may be used over a dose range of 80 mg to 320 mg daily, administered once a day. The antihypertensive effect is substantially present within 2 weeks and maximal reduction is generally attained after 4 weeks. If additional antihypertensive effect is required over the starting dose range, the dose may be increased to a maximum of 320 mg or a diuretic may be added. Addition of a diuretic has a greater effect than dose increases beyond 80 mg. Valsartan tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. 2.3 Pediatric Hypertension 6 to 16 Years of Age The usual recommended starting dose is 1 mg/kg once daily (up to 40 mg total). A higher starting dose of 2 mg/kg may be considered in selected cases when a greater reduction of blood pressure is needed. The dosage should be adjusted according to blood pressure response and tolerability, up to a maximum dose of 4 mg/kg once daily (maximum daily dose 160 mg). No data are available in pediatric patients either undergoing dialysis or with a glomerular filtration rate <30 mL/min/1.73 m2 [ S ee Use in Specific Populations (8.4 ) ] . Use of valsartan tablets are not recommended in children less than 1 year of age [ S ee Adverse Reactions (6.1) , Pediatric Use in Specific Populations (8.4) , Nonclinical Toxicology (13.2) ]. However, due to Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.4 Heart Failure The recommended starting dose of valsartan tablets is 40 mg twice daily. Uptitrate to 80 mg and 160 mg twice daily or to the highest dose tolerated by the patient. Consider reducing the dose of concomitant diuretics. The maximum daily dose administered in clinical trials is 320 mg in divided doses. 2.5 Post-Myocardial Infarction Valsartan tablets may be initiated as early as 12 hours after a myocardial infarction. The recommended starting dose of valsartan tablets is 20 mg twice daily. Patients may be uptitrated within 7 days to 40 mg twice daily, with subsequent titrations to a target maintenance dose of 160 mg twice daily, as tolerated by the patient. If symptomatic hypotension or renal dysfunction occurs, consider dosage reduction. Valsartan tablets may be given with other standard post-myocardial infarction treatment, including thrombolytics, aspirin, beta-blockers, and statins. 2.6 Missed Dose If a dose of valsartan tablets are missed, it should be administered as soon as possible, unless it is almost time for the next dose. The dose should not be doubled to make up for a missed dose. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Starting Dose Dose Range * Hypertension Adult ( 2.2 ) 80-160 mg once daily 80-320 mg once daily 1-16 years ( 2.3 ) 1 mg/kg once daily Up to 40 mg daily 1-4 mg/kg once daily Up to 160 mg daily Heart Failure ( 2.4 ) 40 mg twice daily 40-160 mg twice daily Post-Myocardial Infarction ( 2.5 ) 20 mg twice daily 20-160 mg twice daily * As tolerated by patient 2.1 Important Dosage and Preparation Information Valsartan tablets and oral suspension are not substitutable on a milligram-per-milligram basis. The systemic exposure to valsartan (AUC) is 60% higher with the suspension compared to tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Use of the oral suspension is recommended: in pediatric patients aged 1 to 5 years in patients >5 years of age who cannot swallow tablets and in pediatric patients for whom the calculated dose (mg/kg) does not correspond to the available tablet strengths of valsartan. When switching between suspension and tablets, the dose of valsartan may need to be adjusted. Preparation of Suspension (for 160 mL of a 4 mg/mL suspension) • Add 80 mL of Ora-Plus ® * oral suspending vehicle to an amber glass bottle containing 8 valsartan 80 mg tablets and shake for a minimum of 2 minutes. • Allow the suspension to stand for a minimum of 1 hour. • After the standing time, shake the suspension for a minimum of 1 additional minute. • Add 80 mL of Ora-Sweet SF ® * oral sweetening vehicle to the bottle and shake the suspension for at least 10 seconds to disperse the ingredients. • The suspension is homogenous and can be stored for either up to 30 days at room temperature (below 30°C/86°F) or up to 75 days at refrigerated conditions (2°C to 8°C/35°F to 46°F) in the glass bottle with a child-resistant screw-cap closure. • Shake the bottle well (at least 10 seconds) prior to dispensing the suspension. *Ora-Sweet SF ® and Ora-Plus ® are registered trademarks of Paddock Laboratories, Inc. 2.2 Adult Hypertension The recommended starting dose of valsartan is 80 mg or 160 mg once daily when used as monotherapy in patients who are not volume-depleted. Valsartan may be used over a dose range of 80 mg to 320 mg daily, administered once a day. Valsartan may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. 2.3 Pediatric Hypertension 1 to 16 Years of Age The usual recommended starting dose is 1 mg/kg once daily (up to 40 mg total). No data are available in pediatric patients either undergoing dialysis or with a glomerular filtration rate < 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. Use of valsartan tablets is not recommended in children less than 1 year of age [ see Adverse Reactions (6.1) , Pediatric Use in Specific Populations (8.4) , Nonclinical Toxicology (13.2) ]. 2.4 Heart Failure The recommended starting dose of valsartan is 40 mg twice daily. 2.5 Post-Myocardial Infarction Valsartan may be initiated as early as 12 hours after a myocardial infarction. The recommended starting dose of valsartan is 20 mg twice daily. Valsartan may be given with other standard post-myocardial infarction treatment, including thrombolytics, aspirin, beta-blockers, and statins. 2.6 Missed Dose If a dose of valsartan is missed, it should be administered as soon as possible, unless it is almost time for the next dose. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Starting Dose Dose Range* Hypertension Adults ( 2.2 ) 80 to 160 mg once daily 80 to 320 mg once daily 1 to 16 years ( 2.3 ) 1 mg/kg once daily Up to 40 mg daily 1 to 4 mg/kg once daily Up to 160 mg daily Heart Failure ( 2.4 ) 40 mg twice daily 40 to 160 mg twice daily Post-Myocardial Infarction ( 2.5 ) 20 mg twice daily 20 to 160 mg twice daily *As tolerated by patient 2.1 Important Dosage and Preparation Information Valsartan tablets and oral suspension are not substitutable on a milligram-per-milligram basis. The systemic exposure to valsartan (AUC) is 60% higher with the suspension compared to tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Use of the oral suspension is recommended: • in pediatric patients aged 1 to 5 years • in patients >5 years of age who cannot swallow tablets and • in pediatric patients for whom the calculated dose (mg/kg) does not correspond to the available tablet strengths of valsartan. • The suspension is homogenous and can be stored for either up to 30 days at room temperature (below 30ºC/86ºF) or up to 75 days at refrigerated conditions (2ºC to 8ºC/35ºF to 46ºF) in the glass bottle with a child-resistant screw-cap closure. 2.2 Adult Hypertension The recommended starting dose of valsartan tablets is 80 mg or 160 mg once daily when used as monotherapy in patients who are not volume-depleted. No data are available in pediatric patients either undergoing dialysis or with a glomerular filtration rate < 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )]. Use of valsartan tablets is not recommended in children less than 1 year of age [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ), Pediatric Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ), Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13.2 )]. 2.6 Missed Dose If a dose of valsartan tablets is missed, it should be administered as soon as possible, unless it is almost time for the next dose. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Starting Dose Dose Range * Hypertension Adults ( 2.2 ) 80 to 160 mg once daily 80 to 320 mg once daily 1 to 16 years ( 2.3 ) 1 mg/kg once daily Up to 40 mg daily 1 to 4 mg/kg once daily Up to 160 mg daily Heart Failure ( 2.4 ) 40 mg twice daily 40 to 160 mg twice daily Post-Myocardial Infarction ( 2.5 ) 20 mg twice daily 20 to 160 mg twice daily * As tolerated by patient 2.1 Important Dosage and Preparation Information Valsartan tablets and oral suspension are not substitutable on a milligram-per-milligram basis. The systemic exposure to valsartan (AUC) is 60% higher with the suspension compared to tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Use of the oral suspension is recommended: in pediatric patients aged 1 to 5 years in patients >5 years of age who cannot swallow tablets and in pediatric patients for whom the calculated dose (mg/kg) does not correspond to the available tablet strengths of valsartan tablets. Preparation of Suspension (for 160 mL of a 4 mg/mL suspension) Add 80 mL of Ora-Plus ® * oral suspending vehicle to an amber glass bottle containing 8 valsartan tablets 80 mg and shake for a minimum of 2 minutes. Shake the bottle well (at least 10 seconds) prior to dispensing the suspension. 2.2 Adult Hypertension The recommended starting dose of valsartan tablet is 80 mg or 160 mg once daily when used as monotherapy in patients who are not volume-depleted. No data are available in pediatric patients either undergoing dialysis or with a glomerular filtration rate < 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. Use of valsartan tablet is not recommended in children less than 1 year of age [see Adverse Reactions (6.1), Pediatric Use in Specific Populations (8.4), Nonclinical Toxicology (13.2)]. 2.4 Heart Failure The recommended starting dose of valsartan tablet is 40 mg twice daily. The recommended starting dose of valsartan tablet is 20 mg twice daily. 2.6 Missed Dose If a dose of valsartan tablet is missed, it should be administered as soon as possible, unless it is almost time for the next dose. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dose once daily. Titrate as needed to a maximum dose of 320 mg/25 mg. (2) May be used as add-on/switch therapy for patients not adequately controlled on any of the components (valsartan or HCTZ). (2) May be substituted for titrated components. (2.3) 2.1 General Considerations The usual starting dose is valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 160 mg/12.5 mg once daily. The dosage can be increased after 1 to 2 weeks of therapy to a maximum of one 320 mg/25 mg tablet once daily as needed to control blood pressure [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Maximum antihypertensive effects are attained within 2 to 4 weeks after a change in dose. 2.2 Add-On Therapy A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with valsartan (or another ARB) alone or hydrochlorothiazide alone may be switched to combination therapy with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. A patient who experiences dose-limiting adverse reactions on either component alone may be switched to valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets containing a lower dose of that component in combination with the other to achieve similar blood pressure reductions. The clinical response to valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be subsequently evaluated and if blood pressure remains uncontrolled after 3 to 4 weeks of therapy, the dose may be titrated up to a maximum of 320 mg/25 mg. 2.3 Replacement Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be substituted for the titrated components. 2.4 Initial Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not recommended as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 2.5 Use with Other Antihypertensive Drugs Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The recommended starting dosage for adults is 49 mg/51 mg orally twice daily. The target maintenance dose is 97 mg/103 mg orally twice daily. ( 2.2 ) • Adjust adult doses every 2 to 4 weeks to the target maintenance dose, as tolerated by the patient. ( 2.2 ) • For pediatric patients, see the Full Prescribing Information for recommended dosage, titrations, preparation and administration instructions. ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) • Reduce starting dose to half the usually recommended starting dosage for: o patients not currently taking an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor or angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) or previously taking a low dose of these agents. ( 2.6 ) o patients with severe renal impairment. ( 2.7 ) o patients with moderate hepatic impairment. ( 2.8 ) 2.1 General Considerations Sacubitril and valsartan tablets are contraindicated with concomitant use of an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. If switching from an ACE inhibitor to sacubitril and valsartan tablets allow a washout period of 36 hours between administration of the two drugs [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. 2.2 Adult Heart Failure The recommended starting dose of sacubitril and valsartan tablets are 49/51 mg orally twice-daily. Double the dose of sacubitril and valsartan tablets after 2 to 4 weeks to the target maintenance dose of 97/103 mg twice daily, as tolerated by the patient. 2.3 Pediatric Heart Failure For the recommended dosage for pediatric patients aged 1 year and older, refer to Table 1 if using the tablets. Table 1: Recommended Dose and Titration for Pediatric Patients Using Tablets Weight (kg) Titration Step Dose (twice daily) Starting Second Final Less than 40 kg † 1.6 mg/kg 2.3 mg/kg 3.1 mg/kg At least 40 kg, less than 50 kg 24 mg/26 mg 49 mg/51 mg 72 mg/78 mg ‡ At least 50 kg 49 mg/51 mg 72 mg/78 mg ‡ 97 mg/103 mg † Use of the oral suspension is recommended in these patients. Recommended mg/kg doses are of the combined amount of both sacubitril and valsartan [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )] . ‡ Doses of 72 mg/78 mg can be achieved using three 24 mg/26 mg tablets [see Dosage Forms and Strengths ( 3 )]. 2.4 Preparation of Oral Suspension Using Tablets Sacubitril and valsartan oral suspension can be substituted at the recommended tablet dosage in patients unable to swallow tablets. Sacubitril and valsartan 800 mg/200 mL oral suspension can be prepared in a concentration of 4 mg/mL (sacubitril/valsartan 1.96/2.04 mg/mL). Use sacubitril and valsartan 49/51 mg tablets in the preparation of the suspension. To make an 800 mg/200 mL (4 mg/mL) oral suspension, transfer eight tablets of sacubitril and valsartan 49/51 mg film-coated tablets into a mortar. 2.6 Dose Adjustment for Patients Not Taking an ACE inhibitor or ARB or Previously Taking Low Doses of These Agents In patients not currently taking an ACE inhibitor or an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and for patients previously taking low doses of these agents, start sacubitril and valsartan tablets at half the usually recommended starting dose. After initiation, increase the dose every 2 to 4 weeks in adults and every 2 weeks in pediatric patients to follow the recommended dose escalation thereafter [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.3 )]. Note: Initiate pediatric patients weighing 40 to 50 kg who meet this criterion at 0.8 mg/kg twice daily using the oral suspension [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 , 2.4 )]. 2.7 Dose Adjustment for Severe Renal Impairment In adults and pediatric patients with severe renal impairment estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), start sacubitril and valsartan tablets at half the usually recommended starting dose. After initiation, increase the dose to follow the recommended dose escalation thereafter [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.3 )] . Note: Initiate pediatric patients weighing 40 to 50 kg who meet this criterion at 0.8 mg/kg twice daily using the oral suspension [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 , 2.4 )] . 2.8 Dose Adjustment for Hepatic Impairment In adults and pediatric patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B classification), start sacubitril and valsartan tablets at half the usually recommended starting dose. After initiation, increase the dose to follow the recommended dose escalation thereafter [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) ]. Note: Initiate pediatric patients weighing 40 to 50 kg who meet this criterion at 0.8 mg/kg twice daily using the oral suspension [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Starting Dose Dose Range* Hypertension Adults ( 2.2 ) 80 to 160 mg once daily 80 to 320 mg once daily 1 to 16 years ( 2.3 ) 1 mg/kg once daily Up to 40 mg daily 1 to 4 mg/kg once daily Up to 160 mg daily Heart Failure ( 2.4 ) 40 mg twice daily 40 to 160 mg twice daily Post-Myocardial Infarction ( 2.5 ) 20 mg twice daily 20 to 160 mg twice daily *As tolerated by patient 2.1 Important Dosage and Preparation Information Valsartan tablet and oral suspension are not substitutable on a milligram-per-milligram basis. Use of the oral suspension is recommended: • in pediatric patients aged 1 to 5 years • in patients ≥ 6 >5 years of age who cannot swallow tablets and • in pediatric patients for whom the calculated dose (mg/kg) does not correspond to the available tablet strengths of valsartan. • in pediatric patients aged 1 to 5 years • in patients >5 years of age who cannot swallow tablets and • in pediatric patients for whom the calculated dose (mg/kg) does not correspond to the available tablet strengths of valsartan. Titrate as needed to a maximum dose of 320/25mg ( 2 ) May be used as add-on/switch therapy for patients not adequately controlled on any of the components (valsartan or HCTZ) ( 2 ) May be substituted for titrated components ( 2.3 ) 2.1 General Considerations The usual starting dose is valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 160/12.5 mg once daily. The dosage can be increased after 1 to 2 weeks of therapy to a maximum of one 320/25 tablet once daily as needed to control blood pressure [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. The clinical response to valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be subsequently evaluated and if blood pressure remains uncontrolled after 3 to 4 weeks of therapy, the dose may be titrated up to a maximum of 320/25 mg. 2.4 Initial Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not recommended as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] .
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ENTRESTO is contraindicated: in patients with hypersensitivity to any component in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] with concomitant use of ACE inhibitors. Do not administer within 36 hours of switching from or to an ACE inhibitor [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] with concomitant use of aliskiren in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] Hypersensitivity to any component. ( 4 ) History of angioedema related to previous ACEi or ARB therapy. ( 4 ) Concomitant use with ACE inhibitors. ( 4 , 7.1 ) Concomitant use with aliskiren in patients with diabetes. ( 4 , 7.1 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not use in patients with known hypersensitivity to any component. Do not coadminister aliskiren with valsartan tablets in patients with diabetes [See Drug Interactions (7.3) ]. Known hypersensitivity to any component. Do not coadminister aliskiren with valsartan tablets in patients with diabetes ( 4 ) Do not coadminister aliskiren with valsartan in patients with diabetes [ see Drug Interactions (7.3) ]. Do not coadminister aliskiren with valsartan in patients with diabetes ( 4 ) Do not coadminister aliskiren with valsartan tablets in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 )]. Do not coadminister aliskiren with valsartan tablets in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions ( 7 .3)]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. Because of the hydrochlorothiazide component, this product is contraindicated in patients with anuria or hypersensitivity to other sulfonamide-derived drugs. Do not co-administer aliskiren with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Anuria; Hypersensitivity to any sulfonamide-derived drugs or any component; Do not co-administer aliskiren with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sacubitril and valsartan tablets are contraindicated: • in patients with hypersensitivity to any component • in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] • with concomitant use of ACE inhibitors. Do not administer within 36 hours of switching from or to an ACE inhibitor [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] • with concomitant use of aliskiren in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] Hypersensitivity to any component. Do not co-administer aliskiren with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Anuria; Hypersensitivity to any sulfonamide-derived drugs or any component: Do not co-administer aliskiren with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes ( 4 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Avoid concomitant use with aliskiren in patients with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) less than 60. ( 7.1 ) Potassium-sparing diuretics: May lead to increased serum potassium. ( 7.2 ) Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): May lead to increased risk of renal impairment. ( 7.3 ) Lithium: Increased risk of lithium toxicity. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System Concomitant use of ENTRESTO with an ACE inhibitor is contraindicated because of the increased risk of angioedema [see Contraindications (4)] . Avoid use of ENTRESTO with an ARB, because ENTRESTO contains the angiotensin II receptor blocker valsartan. The concomitant use of ENTRESTO with aliskiren is contraindicated in patients with diabetes [see Contraindications (4)] . Avoid use with aliskiren in patients with renal impairment (eGFR less than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ). 7.2 Potassium-Sparing Diuretics As with other drugs that block angiotensin II or its effects, concomitant use of potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, amiloride), potassium supplements, or salt substitutes containing potassium may lead to increases in serum potassium [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] . 7.3 Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, concomitant use of NSAIDs, including COX-2 inhibitors, with ENTRESTO may result in worsening of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically. 7.4 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use with ENTRESTO. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements or salt substitutes may lead to increases in serum potassium, and in heart failure patients, increases in serum creatinine ( 7.1 ) NSAID use may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect ( 7.2 ) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system : Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia ( 7.3 ) Lithium : Increases in serum lithium level and lithium toxicity ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Concomitant use of valsartan with other agents that block the renin-angiotensin system, potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, amiloride), potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing potassium or other drugs that may increase potassium levels (e.g., heparin) may lead to increases in serum potassium and in heart failure patients to increases in serum creatinine. If co-medication is considered necessary, monitoring of serum potassium is advisable. 7.2 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including valsartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving valsartan and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including valsartan, may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. 7.3 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy [See Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on valsartan tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with valsartan tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with valsartan tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR < 60 mL/min). Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements or salt substitutes may lead to increases in serum potassium, and in heart failure patients, increases in serum creatinine ( 7.1 ) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug (NSAID) use may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect ( 7.2) Dual inhibition of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS): Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia ( 7.3 ) Lithium: Increases in serum lithium level and lithium toxicity ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Concomitant use of valsartan with other agents that block the renin-angiotensin system, potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, amiloride), potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing potassium or other drugs that may increase potassium levels (e.g., heparin) may lead to increases in serum potassium and in heart failure patients to increases in serum creatinine. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including valsartan, may be attenuated by NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy [ see Clinical Studies (14.3 )] . Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on valsartan and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with valsartan in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with valsartan in patients with renal impairment (GFR < 60 mL/min). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements or salt substitutes may lead to increases in serum potassium, and in heart failure patients, increases in serum creatinine ( 7.1 ) • Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug (NSAID) use may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect ( 7.2 ) • Dual inhibition of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS): Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia ( 7.3 ) • Lithium : Increases in serum lithium level and lithium toxicity ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Concomitant use of valsartan with other agents that block the renin-angiotensin system, potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, amiloride), potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing potassium or other drugs that may increase potassium levels (e.g., heparin) may lead to increases in serum potassium and in heart failure patients to increases in serum creatinine. 7.2 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX- 2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including valsartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements or salt substitutes may lead to increases in serum potassium, and in heart failure patients, increases in serum creatinine ( 7.1 ) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug (NSAID) use may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect ( 7.2 ) Dual inhibition of the Renin-Angiotensin System(RAS): Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia ( 7.3 ) Lithium: Increases in serum lithium level and lithium toxicity ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Concomitant use of valsartan with other agents that block the renin-angiotensin system, potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, amiloride), potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing potassium or other drugs that may increase potassium levels (e.g., heparin) may lead to increases in serum potassium and in heart failure patients to increases in serum creatinine. Avoid use of aliskiren with valsartan tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR less than 60 mL/min). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Valsartan and Hydrochlorothiazide: Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists or thiazides. Monitor lithium levels in patients taking valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide. Valsartan: Agents Increasing Serum Potassium: Concomitant use of valsartan with other agents that block the renin-angiotensin system, potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, amiloride), potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing potassium or other drugs that may increase potassium levels (e.g., heparin) may lead to increases in serum potassium and in heart failure patients to increases in serum creatinine. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including valsartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS): Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. Do not co-administer aliskiren with valsartan in patients with diabetes. Hydrochlorothiazide: When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics: Antidiabetic Drugs (oral agents and insulin) - Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs and COX-2 selective inhibitors) - When valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. Carbamazepine - May lead to symptomatic hyponatremia. Ion exchange resins: Staggering the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and ion exchange resins (e.g., cholestyramine, colestipol) such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of resins would potentially minimize the interaction [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Cyclosporine: Concomitant treatment with cyclosporine may increase the risk of hyperuricemia and gout-type complications. Antidiabetic drugs: Dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required. (7) Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides. (12.3) Lithium: Increased risk of lithium toxicity. Monitor serum lithium concentrations during concurrent use. (7) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): May increase risk of renal impairment. Can reduce diuretic, natriuretic and antihypertensive effects of diuretics. (7) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia. (7) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Avoid concomitant use with aliskiren in patients with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) less than 60. ( 7.1 ) • Potassium-sparing diuretics: May lead to increased serum potassium. ( 7.2 ) • Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): May lead to increased risk of renal impairment. ( 7.3 ) • Lithium: Increased risk of lithium toxicity. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System Concomitant use of sacubitril and valsartan tablets with an ACE inhibitor is contraindicated because of the increased risk of angioedema [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Avoid use of sacubitril and valsartan tablets with an ARB, because sacubitril and valsartan tablets contains the angiotensin II receptor blocker valsartan. The concomitant use of sacubitril and valsartan tablets with aliskiren is contraindicated in patients with diabetes [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Avoid use with aliskiren in patients with renal impairment (eGFR less than 60 mL/min/1.73 m²). 7.2 Potassium-Sparing Diuretics As with other drugs that block angiotensin II or its effects, concomitant use of potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, amiloride), potassium supplements, or salt substitutes containing potassium may lead to increases in serum potassium [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )]. 7.3 Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, concomitant use of NSAIDs, including COX-2 inhibitors, with sacubitril and valsartan tablets may result in worsening of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use with sacubitril and valsartan tablets. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Valsartan-Hydrochlorothiazide: Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists or thiazides. Monitor lithium levels in patients taking valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including valsartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Avoid use of aliskiren with valsartan in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDS and COX-2 selective inhibitors) - When valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. Carbamazepine – May lead to symptomatic hyponatremia. Ion exchange resins: Staggering the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and ion exchange resins (e.g., cholestyramine, colestipol) such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of resins would potentially minimize the interaction [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Cyclosporine : Concomitant treatment with cyclosporine may increase the risk of hyperuricemia and gout-type complications. Antidiabetic Drugs: Dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required ( 7 ) Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides ( 12.3 ) Lithium: Increased risk of lithium toxicity. ( 7 ) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): May increase risk of renal impairment. Can reduce diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of diuretics. ( 7 ) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia ( 7 )

=== ALLANTOIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Skin Protectant. Purpose Skin protectant Purposes Uses helps protect skin and supports healing of minor cuts, scrapes, burns and wounds, including pressure sores, diabetic ulcers, cracked skin and lips topical antiseptic to help decrease the risk of skin infections Purpose Skin Protectant Skin Protectant Active Ingredient ...............................Purpose Allantoin 0.50%...................................Skin protectant Dimethicone 1.50%............................Skin protectant Purpose Purpose Skin Protectant
Indications: Apply as needed. Uses Helps prevent and temporarily protect and help relieve chafed, chapped, or cracked skin. Helps prevent and protect from the drying of wind and cold weather Uses temporarily relieves pain and itching associated with minor skin irritations protects and helps relieve chapped or cracked skin Do not use in large quantities, particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas uses Temporarily protects minor cuts, burns, scrapes, chafed, chapped, or cracked skin. Uses temporarily protects and helps relieve chapped or cracked skin. Helps protect from the drying effects of wind and cold weather. Use Remove makeup from eye area Uses Temporarily protects minor cuts, scrapes, burns Helps prevent and temporarily protects and helps relieve chaged, chapped, or cracked skin Uses Temporarily protects minor - cuts - scrapes - burns Helps prevent and temporarily protects and helps relieve chafed, chapped, or cracked skin.
Dosage: Temporarily protects and helps relieve chapped or cracked skin. Directions shake well before use. adults and children 2 years and over; apply as needed. children under 2 years; consult a doctor keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older: Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily. children under 12 years of age: consult a doctor. Directions: Adults and children 2 years of age and older: use to clean minor cut, scrapes, and burns by thoroughly flushing the affected area let air dry cover with adhesive bandage or sterile gauze apply a small amount of this product on the area 1 to 3 times daily Children under 2 years of age: do not use, consult a doctor Directions Adults and children 2 years and over. For use as soak in bath, dissolve 1 bath bomb in warm tub of water, Soak for 10 to 30 minutes as needed, or as directed by doctor. Pat dry (do not rub) to leave a thin layer on the skin Directions Apply as needed Directions Apply with a cotton pad on closed eye lids, morning or night Directions Directions Apply as needed
Warnings: For external use only . When using this product keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove. Stop use and ask a doctor if the condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days. Do not use on deep or puncture wounds, animal bites, and serious burns. Warnings For external use only. Warnings For external use only Do not use in large quantities, particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas. on deep or puncture wounds, animal bites or serious burns When using this product avoid contact with eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children . If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children Warnings Avoid Direct Contact in Eyes. Rinse thoroughly if contact occurs. If skin irritation or rash develops, discontinue use. WARNINGS Warnings For external use only. When using this product do not get into eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if Stop use and ask a doctor if Conition worsens Symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days. Do not use on Do not use on Deep or puncture wounds Animal bites Serious burns. Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children. Stop use and ask a doctor if Condition worsens Symptoms last more than 7 day or clear up and occur again within a few days Do not use on Deep or puncture wounds Animal bites Serious burns Keep out of reach of children.

=== HEPARIN SODIUM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Heparin Sodium Injection is indicated for: Prophylaxis and treatment of venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism; Prevention of postoperative deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in patients undergoing major abdominothoracic surgery or who, for other reasons, are at risk of developing thromboembolic disease; Atrial fibrillation with embolization; Treatment of acute and chronic consumptive coagulopathies (disseminated intravascular coagulation); Prevention of clotting in arterial and cardiac surgery; Prophylaxis and treatment of peripheral arterial embolism. Anticoagulant use in blood transfusions, extracorporeal circulation, and dialysis procedures. HEPARIN SODIUM INJECTION is an anticoagulant indicated for ( 1 ) Prophylaxis and treatment of venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism Prevention of postoperative deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in patients undergoing major abdominothoracic surgery or who, for other reasons, are at risk of developing thromboembolic disease Atrial fibrillation with embolization Treatment of acute and chronic consumptive coagulopathies (disseminated intravascular coagulation) Prevention of clotting in arterial and cardiac surgery Prophylaxis and treatment of peripheral arterial embolism Use as an anticoagulant in blood transfusions, extracorporeal circulation, and dialysis procedures 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE HEPARIN SODIUM IN SODIUM CHLORIDE INJECTION is indicated for: • Prophylaxis and treatment of venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism; • Prophylaxis and treatment of thromboembolic complications associated with atrial fibrillation; • Treatment of acute and chronic consumption coagulopathies (disseminated intravascular coagulation); • Prevention of clotting in arterial and cardiac surgery; • Prophylaxis and treatment of peripheral arterial embolism; • Anticoagulant use in blood transfusions, extracorporeal circulation, and dialysis procedures. HEPARIN SODIUM IN SODIUM CHLORIDE INJECTION is indicated for: ( 1 ) • Prophylaxis and treatment of venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism • Prophylaxis and treatment of thromboembolic complications associated with atrial fibrillation • Treatment of acute and chronic consumption coagulopathies (disseminated intravascular coagulation) • Prevention of clotting in arterial and cardiac surgery • Prophylaxis and treatment of peripheral arterial embolism • Anticoagulant use in blood transfusions, extracorporeal circulation and dialysis procedures 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Heparin Sodium Injection is indicated for: • Prophylaxis and treatment of venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism; • Prevention of postoperative deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in patients undergoing major abdominothoracic surgery or who, for other reasons, are at risk of developing thromboembolic disease; • Atrial fibrillation with embolization; • Treatment of acute and chronic consumptive coagulopathies (disseminated intravascular coagulation); • Prevention of clotting in arterial and cardiac surgery; • Prophylaxis and treatment of peripheral arterial embolism. • Anticoagulant use in blood transfusions, extracorporeal circulation, and dialysis procedures. HEPARIN SODIUM INJECTION is an anticoagulant indicated for ( 1 ) • Prophylaxis and treatment of venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism • Prevention of postoperative deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in patients undergoing major abdominothoracic surgery or who, for other reasons, are at risk of developing thromboembolic disease • Atrial fibrillation with embolization • Treatment of acute and chronic consumptive coagulopathies (disseminated intravascular coagulation) • Prevention of clotting in arterial and cardiac surgery • Prophylaxis and treatment of peripheral arterial embolism • Use as an anticoagulant in blood transfusions, extracorporeal circulation, and dialysis procedures 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Heparin Sodium in Sodium Chloride Injection at a concentration of 2 units/mL is indicated as an anticoagulant to maintain catheter patency. Heparin Sodium in Sodium Chloride Injection at a concentration of 2 units/mL is indicated as an anticoagulant to maintain catheter patency. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Heparin Sodium Injection in Sodium Chloride at a concentration of 2 units/mL is indicated as an anticoagulant to maintain catheter patency. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Heparin sodium injection is indicated for: • Prophylaxis and treatment of venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism; • Prevention of postoperative deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in patients undergoing major abdominothoracic surgery or who, for other reasons, are at risk of developing thromboembolic disease; • Atrial fibrillation with embolization; • Treatment of acute and chronic consumptive coagulopathies (disseminated intravascular coagulation); • Prevention of clotting in arterial and cardiac surgery; • Prophylaxis and treatment of peripheral arterial embolism.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended Adult Dosages: Therapeutic Anticoagulant Effect with Full-Dose Heparin † ( 2.4 ) † Based on 150 lb (68 kg) patient. Adjust dose based on laboratory monitoring. Deep Subcutaneous (Intrafat) Injection Use a different site for each injection Initial Dose 5,000 units by intravenous injection, followed by 10,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution, subcutaneously Every 8 hours or Every 12 hours 8,000 to 10,000 units of a concentrated solution 15,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution Intermittent Intravenous Injection Initial dose 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Every 4 to 6 hours 5,000 to 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Intravenous Infusion Initial dose 5,000 units by intravenous injection Continuous 20,000 to 40,000 units/24 hours in 1000 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP (or in any compatible solution) for infusion 2.1 Preparation for Administration Confirm the choice of the correct Heparin Sodium Injection vial to ensure that the 1 mL vial is not confused with a “catheter lock flush” vial or other 1 mL vial of incorrect strength [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Confirm the selection of the correct formulation and strength prior to administration of the drug. To lessen this risk, the 1 mL vial includes a red cautionary statement. Read the cautionary statement and confirm that you have selected the correct medication and strength. When heparin is added to an infusion solution for continuous intravenous administration, invert the container repeatedly to ensure adequate mixing and prevent pooling of the heparin in the solution. Inspect parenteral drug products visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Use only if solution is clear and the seal is intact. Do not use if solution is discolored or contains a precipitate. Administer Heparin Sodium Injection by intermittent intravenous injection, intravenous infusion, or deep subcutaneous (intrafat, i.e., above the iliac crest or abdominal fat layer) injection. Do not administer Heparin Sodium Injection by intramuscular injection because of the risk of hematoma at the injection site [see Adverse Reactions ( 6 )] . 2.3 Laboratory Monitoring for Efficacy and Safety Adjust the dosage of Heparin Sodium Injection according to the patient's coagulation test results. Dosage is considered adequate when the activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) is 1.5 to 2 times normal or when the whole blood clotting time is elevated approximately 2.5 to 3 times the control value. When initiating treatment with Heparin Sodium Injection by continuous intravenous infusion, determine the coagulation status (aPTT, INR, platelet count) at baseline and continue to follow aPTT approximately every 4 hours and then at appropriate intervals thereafter. When the drug is administered intermittently by intravenous injection, perform coagulation tests before each injection during the initiation of treatment and at appropriate intervals thereafter. After deep subcutaneous (intrafat) injections, tests for adequacy of dosage are best performed on samples drawn 4 to 6 hours after the injection. Periodic platelet counts and hematocrits are recommended during the entire course of heparin therapy, regardless of the route of administration. 2.4 Therapeutic Anticoagulant Effect with Full-Dose Heparin The dosing recommendations in Table 1 are based on clinical experience. Although dosages must be adjusted for the individual patient according to the results of suitable laboratory tests, the following dosage schedules may be used as guidelines: Table 1: Recommended Adult Full-Dose Heparin Regimens for Therapeutic Anticoagulant Effect METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION FREQUENCY RECOMMENDED DOSE [based on 150 lb (68 kg) patient] Deep Subcutaneous (Intrafat) Injection Initial dose 5,000 units by intravenous injection, followed by 10,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution, subcutaneously A different site should be used for each injection to prevent the development of massive hematoma Every 8 hours or 8,000 to 10,000 units of a concentrated solution Every 12 hours 15,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution Intermittent Intravenous Injection Initial dose 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Every 4 to 6 hours 5,000 to 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Intravenous Infusion Initial dose Continuous 5,000 units by intravenous injection 20,000 to 40,000 units/24 hours in 1000 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP (or in any compatible solution) for infusion 2.5 Pediatric Use Do not use benzyl alcohol-preserved drugs in neonates and infants. Use preservative-free Heparin Sodium Injection in neonates and infants [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . There are no adequate and well controlled studies on heparin use in pediatric patients. Pediatric dosing recommendations are based on clinical experience. In general, the following dosage schedule may be used as a guideline in pediatric patients: Initial Dose 75 to 100 units/kg (Intravenous bolus over 10 minutes) Maintenance Dose Infants: 25 to 30 units/kg/hour; Infants < 2 months have the highest requirements (average 28 units/kg/hour) Children > 1 year of age: 18 to 20 units/kg/hour; Older children may require less heparin, similar to weight-adjusted adult dosage Monitoring Adjust heparin to maintain APTT of 60 to 85 seconds, assuming this reflects an anti-Factor Xa level of 0.35 to 0.70 2.6 Cardiovascular Surgery Patients undergoing total body perfusion for open-heart surgery should receive an initial dose of not less than 150 units of heparin sodium per kilogram of body weight. Frequently, a dose of 300 units per kilogram is used for procedures estimated to last less than 60 minutes, or 400 units per kilogram for those estimated to last longer than 60 minutes. 2.7 Low-Dose Prophylaxis of Postoperative Thromboembolism The most widely used dosage has been 5,000 units 2 hours before surgery and 5,000 units every 8 to 12 hours thereafter for 7 days or until the patient is fully ambulatory, whichever is longer. Administer the heparin by deep subcutaneous (intrafat, i.e., above the iliac crest or abdominal fat layer, arm, or thigh) injection with a fine (25- to 26-gauge) needle to minimize tissue trauma. 2.8 Blood Transfusion Add 450 USP units to 600 USP units of heparin sodium per 100 mL of whole blood to prevent coagulation. Usually, 7,500 USP units of heparin sodium are added to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP (or 75,000 USP units per 1000 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP) and mixed; from this sterile solution, 6 mL to 8 mL are added per 100 mL of whole blood. 2.9 Converting to Warfarin To ensure continuous anticoagulation when converting from Heparin Sodium Injection to warfarin, continue full heparin therapy for several days until the INR (prothrombin time) has reached a stable therapeutic range. Heparin therapy may then be discontinued without tapering [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . 2.10 Converting to Oral Anticoagulants other than Warfarin For patients currently receiving intravenous heparin, stop intravenous infusion of heparin sodium immediately after administering the first dose of oral anticoagulant; or for intermittent intravenous administration of heparin sodium, start oral anticoagulant 0 to 2 hours before the time that the next dose of heparin was to have been administered. 2.11 Extracorporeal Dialysis Follow equipment manufacturers' operating directions carefully. A dose of 25 units/kg to 30 units/kg followed by an infusion rate of 1,500 units/hour to 2,000 units/hour is suggested based on pharmacodynamic data if specific manufacturers' recommendations are not available. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended Adult Dosages: • Therapeutic Anticoagulant Effect with Full-Dose Heparin* ( 2.3 ) Intermittent Intravenous Injection Initial Dose 10,000 Units Every 4 to 6 hours 5,000 Units to 10,000 Units Continuous Intravenous Infusion Initial Dose 5,000 Units Continuous 20,000 Units to 40,000 Units/24 hours *Based on 150 lb (68 kg) patient. • Cardiovascular Surgery ( 2.5 ) Intravascular via Total Body Perfusion Initial Dose Not less than 150 units/kg; adjust for longer procedures • Extracorporeal Dialysis ( 2.8 ) For pediatric dosing see section 2.4 of full prescribing information. Intravascular via Extracorporeal Dialysis Follow equipment manufacturer's operating directions carefully. 2.1 Preparation for Administration Confirm the selection of the correct formulation and strength prior to administration of the drug. Do not use HEPARIN SODIUM IN SODIUM CHLORIDE INJECTION as a "catheter lock flush" product. Administer this product by intravenous infusion. Do not admix with other drugs. This product should not be infused under pressure. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Do not administer unless the solution is clear and container is undamaged. Discard unused portion. To Open Tear outer wrap and remove solution container. For PVC bags, some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed. This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety. The opacity will diminish gradually. (Use aseptic technique) 1. Close flow control clamp of administration set. 2. Remove cover from outlet port at bottom of container. 3. Insert piercing pin of administration set into port with a twisting motion until the set is firmly seated. NOTE: See full directions on administration set carton. 4. Suspend container from hanger. 5. Squeeze and release drip chamber to establish proper fluid level in chamber. 6. Open flow control clamp and clear air from set. Close clamp. 7. Attach set to venipuncture device. If device is not indwelling, prime and make venipuncture. 8. Regulate rate of administration with flow control clamp. Warning: Do not use flexible container in series connections. 2.2 Laboratory Monitoring for Efficacy and Safety The dosage of heparin sodium should be adjusted according to the patient's coagulation test results. When heparin is given by continuous intravenous infusion, the coagulation time should be determined approximately every 4 hours in the early stages of treatment. When the drug is administered intermittently by intravenous injection, coagulation tests should be performed before each injection during the early stages of treatment and at appropriate intervals thereafter. Periodic platelet counts, hematocrits, and tests for occult blood in stool are recommended during the entire course of heparin therapy. 2.3 Therapeutic Anticoagulant Effect With Full-Dose Heparin The dosing recommendations in Table 1 are based on clinical experience. Although dosage must be adjusted for the individual patient according to the results of suitable laboratory tests, the following dosage schedules may be used as guidelines: Table 1: Recommended Adult Full-Dose Heparin Regimens for Therapeutic Anticoagulant Effect Method of Administration Frequency Recommended Dose Based on 150 lb. (68 kg) patient. Intermittent Intravenous Injection Initial Dose 10,000 Units Every 4 to 6 hours 5,000 Units to 10,000 Units Continuous Intravenous Infusion Initial Dose 5,000 Units by intravenous injection Continuous 20,000 Units/24 hours to 40,000 Units/24 hours 2.4 Pediatric Use There are no adequate and well-controlled studies on heparin use in pediatric patients. In general, the following dosage schedule may be used as a guideline in pediatric patients: Initial Dose 75 units/kg to 100 units/kg (intravenous bolus over 10 minutes) Maintenance Dose Infants: 25 units/kg/hour to 30 units/kg/hour (continuous intravenous infusion); Infants less than 2 months have the highest requirements (average 28 units/kg/hour) Children greater than 1 year of age: 18 units/kg/hour to 20 units/kg/hour (continuous intravenous infusion); Older children may require less heparin, similar to weight-adjusted adult dosage. Monitoring Adjust heparin to maintain APTT of 60 seconds to 85 seconds, assuming this reflects an anti-Factor Xa level of 0.35 to 0.70. 2.5 Cardiovascular Surgery Patients undergoing total body perfusion for open-heart surgery should receive an initial dose of not less than 150 units of heparin sodium per kilogram of body weight. Frequently, a dose of 300 units per kilogram is used for procedures estimated to last less than 60 minutes or 400 units per kilogram for those estimated to last longer than 60 minutes. 2.6 Converting to Warfarin To ensure continuous anticoagulation when converting from heparin sodium to warfarin, continue full heparin therapy for several days until the INR (prothrombin time) has reached a stable therapeutic range. Heparin therapy may then be discontinued without tapering [see Drug Interactions (7.5) ] . 2.7 Converting to Oral Anticoagulants Other Than Warfarin For patients currently receiving intravenous heparin, stop intravenous infusion of heparin sodium immediately after administering the first dose of oral anticoagulant; or for intermittent intravenous administration of heparin sodium, start oral anticoagulant 0 to 2 hours before the time that the next dose of heparin was to have been administered. 2.8 Extracorporeal Dialysis Follow equipment manufacturer's operating directions carefully. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended Adult Dosages: • Therapeutic Anticoagulant Effect with Full-Dose Heparin † ( 2.4 ) † Based on 150 lb (68 kg) patient. Deep Subcutaneous (Intrafat) Injection Use a different site for each injection Initial Dose 5,000 units by intravenous injection, followed by 10,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution, subcutaneously Every 8 hours or Every 12 hours 8,000 to 10,000 units of a concentrated solution 15,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution Intermittent Intravenous Injection Initial dose 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Every 4 to 6 hours 5,000 to 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Intravenous Infusion Initial dose 5,000 units by intravenous injection Continuous 20,000 to 40,000 units/24 hours in 1000 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP (or in any compatible solution) for infusion 2.1 Preparation for Administration Confirm the choice of the correct Heparin Sodium Injection vial to ensure that the 1 mL vial is not confused with a “catheter lock flush” vial or other 1 mL vial of incorrect strength [s ee Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Do not administer Heparin Sodium Injection by intramuscular injection because of the risk of hematoma at the injection site [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ]. 2.2 Laboratory Monitoring for Efficacy and Safety Adjust the dosage of Heparin Sodium Injection according to the patient's coagulation test results. Although dosages must be adjusted for the individual patient according to the results of suitable laboratory tests, the following dosage schedules may be used as guidelines: Table 1: Recommended Adult Full-Dose Heparin Regimens for Therapeutic Anticoagulant Effect METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION FREQUENCY RECOMMENDED DOSE [based on 150 lb (68 kg) patient] Deep Subcutaneous (Intrafat) Injection Initial dose 5,000 units by intravenous injection, followed by 10,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution, subcutaneously A different site should be used for each injection to prevent the development of massive hematoma Every 8 hours or 8,000 to 10,000 units of a concentrated solution Every 12 hours 15,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution Intermittent Intravenous Injection Initial dose Every 4 to 6 hours 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP 5,000 to 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Intravenous Infusion Initial dose Continuous 5,000 units by intravenous injection 20,000 to 40,000 units/24 hours in 1000 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP (or in any compatible solution) for infusion 2.4 Pediatric Use Use preservative-free Heparin Sodium Injection in neonates and infants. In general, the following dosage schedule may be used as a guideline in pediatric patients: Initial Dose 75 to 100 units/kg (Intravenous bolus over 10 minutes) Infants: 25 to 30 units/kg/hour; Infants < 2 months have the highest requirements (average 28 units/kg/hour) Maintenance Dose Children > 1 year of age: 18 to 20 units/kg/hour; Older children may require less heparin, similar to weight-adjusted adult dosage Monitoring Adjust heparin to maintain APTT of 60 to 85 seconds, assuming this reflects an anti-Factor Xa level of 0.35 to 0.70 2.5 Cardiovascular Surgery Patients undergoing total body perfusion for open-heart surgery should receive an initial dose of not less than 150 units of heparin sodium per kilogram of body weight. 2.6 Low-Dose Prophylaxis of Postoperative Thromboembolism The most widely used dosage has been 5,000 units 2 hours before surgery and 5,000 units every 8 to 12 hours thereafter for 7 days or until the patient is fully ambulatory, whichever is longer. Administer the heparin by deep subcutaneous (intrafat, i.e., above the iliac crest or abdominal fat layer, arm, or thigh) injection with a fine (25 to 26-gauge) needle to minimize tissue trauma. 2.7 Blood Transfusion Add 450 USP units to 600 USP units of heparin sodium per 100 mL of whole blood to prevent coagulation. 2.8 Converting to Warfarin To ensure continuous anticoagulation when converting from Heparin Sodium Injection to warfarin, continue full heparin therapy for several days until the INR (prothrombin time) has reached a stable therapeutic range. 2.9 Converting to Oral Anticoagulants other than Warfarin For patients currently receiving intravenous heparin, stop intravenous infusion of heparin sodium immediately after administering the first dose of oral anticoagulant; or for intermittent intravenous administration of heparin sodium, start oral anticoagulant 0 to 2 hours before the time that the next dose of heparin was to have been administered. 2.10 Extracorporeal Dialysis Follow equipment manufacturers' operating directions carefully. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Infuse through intravenous catheter at a rate of 6 units per hour. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Preparation for Administration Do not administer unless solution is clear, and seal is intact. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Do not infuse this product under pressure . To Open: Tear overwrap down side at slit and remove solution container. Visually inspect the container. If the outlet port protector is damaged, detached, or not present, discard container as solution path sterility may be impaired. Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed. Check for minute leaks by squeezing inner bag firmly. If leaks are found discard solution as sterility may be impaired. Do not add supplementary medication. Preparation for Administration: 1. Suspend container from eyelet support. Remove plastic protector from outlet port at bottom of container. Attach administration set. Refer to complete directions accompanying set. All injections in VIAFLEX PLUS plastic containers are intended for administration using sterile equipment. Single-dose container. Discard any unused portion. Do not reconnect partially used bags. Because dosages of this drug are titrated to response, no additives should be made to Heparin Sodium in Sodium Chloride Injection. Heparin sodium is not effective by oral administration and Heparin Sodium in Sodium Chloride Injection should not be given orally. 2.2 Maintenance of Catheter Patency The recommended starting dose is 6 units per hour by intravenous infusion through an intravenous catheter to maintain catheter patency. Recommended Adult Dosages: Therapeutic Anticoagulant Effect with Full-Dose Heparin† ( 2.3 ) Deep Subcutaneous (Intrafat) Injection Use a different site for each injection Initial Dose 5,000 units by intravenous injection followed by 10,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution, subcutaneously Every 8 hours or Every 12 hours 8,000 to 10,000 units of a concentrated solution 15,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution Intermittent Intravenous Injection Initial Dose 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Every 4 to 6 hours 5,000 to 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Intravenous Infusion Initial Dose 5,000 units by intravenous injection Continuous 20,000 to 40,000 units/24 hours in 1,000 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP (or in any compatible solution) for infusion † Based on 150 lb (68 kg) patient. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2.1 Preparation for Administration Confirm the choice of the correct heparin sodium injection vial to ensure that the 1 mL vial is not confused with a “catheter lock flush” vial or other 1 mL vial of incorrect strength [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . When heparin is added to an infusion solution for continuous intravenous (IV) administration, invert the container at least six times to ensure adequate mixing and prevent pooling of the heparin in the solution. Storage of prepared infusion solution should not exceed 4 hours at room temperature or 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C (36° to 46°F). The intramuscular route of administration should be avoided because of the frequent occurrence of hematoma at the injection site [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . 2.2 Laboratory Monitoring for Efficacy and Safety Adjust the dosage of heparin sodium injection according to the patient’s coagulation test results. Periodically monitor platelet counts, hematocrit, and occult blood in stool during the entire course of heparin therapy, regardless of the route of administration. Although dosages must be adjusted for the individual patient according to the results of suitable laboratory tests, the following dosage schedules may be used as guidelines: Table 1: Recommended Adult Full-Dose Heparin Regimens for Therapeutic Anticoagulant Effect Method of Administration Frequency Recommended Dose Deep Subcutaneous (Intrafat) Injection Use a different site for each injection to prevent the development of hematoma Initial Dose 5,000 units by intravenous injection, followed by 10,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution, subcutaneously Every 8 hours or 8,000 to 10,000 units of a concentrated solution Every 12 hours 15,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution Intermittent Intravenous Injection Initial Dose 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Every 4 to 6 hours 5,000 to 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Continuous Intravenous Infusion Initial Dose 5,000 units by intravenous injection Continuous 20,000 to 40,000 units/24 hours in 1,000 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP (or in any compatible solution) for infusion *Based on 68 kg patient 2.4 Pediatric Dosing Use preservative-free heparin sodium injection in neonates and infants [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. In general, the following dosage schedule may be used as a guideline in pediatric patients: Recommended Pediatric Use Initial Dose 75 to 100 units/kg (IV bolus over 10 minutes) Maintenance Dose Infants: 25 to 30 units/kg/hour; Infants < 2 months have the highest requirements (average 28 units/kg/hour) Children > 1 year of age: 18 to 20 units/kg/hour; Older children may require less heparin, similar to Weight-adjusted adult dosage Monitoring Adjust heparin to maintain aPTT of 60 to 85 seconds, assuming this reflects an anti-Factor Xa level of 0.35 to 0.70 2.5 Cardiovascular Surgery Patients undergoing total body perfusion for open-heart surgery should receive an initial dose of not less than 150 units of heparin sodium per kilogram of body weight. 2.7 Converting to Warfarin To ensure continuous anticoagulation when converting from Heparin Sodium Injection to warfarin, continue full heparin therapy for several days until the INR (prothrombin time) has reached a stable therapeutic range. 2.8 Converting to Oral Anticoagulants other than Warfarin For patients currently receiving intravenous heparin, stop intravenous infusion of heparin sodium immediately after administering the first dose of oral anticoagulant; or for intermittent intravenous administration of heparin sodium, start oral anticoagulant 0 to 2 hours before the time that the next dose of heparin was to have been administered. 2.9 Extracorporeal Dialysis Follow equipment manufacturers’ operating directions carefully. A dose of 25 to 30 units/kg followed by an infusion rate of 1,500 to 2,000 units/hour is suggested based on pharmacodynamic data if specific manufacturers’ recommendations are not available. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended Adult Dosages: Therapeutic Anticoagulant Effect with Full-Dose Heparin † ( 2.4 ) Deep Subcutaneous (Intrafat) Injection Use a different site for each injection Initial Dose 5,000 units by intravenous injection, followed by 10,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution, subcutaneously Every 8 hours or Every 12 hours 8,000 to 10,000 units of a concentrated solution 15,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution Intermittent Intravenous Injection Initial dose 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Every 4 to 6 hours 5,000 to 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Intravenous Infusion Initial dose 5,000 units by intravenous injection Continuous 20,000 to 40,000 units/24 hours in 1000 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP (or in any compatible solution) for infusion † Based on 150 lb (68 kg) patient. 2.1 Preparation for Administration Confirm the choice of the correct Heparin Sodium Injection vial to ensure that the 1 mL vial is not confused with a “catheter lock flush” vial or other 1 mL vial of incorrect strength [s ee Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . To lessen this risk, the 1 mL vial includes a red cautionary label that extends above the main label. Then locate the “Tear Here” point on the label, and remove this red cautionary label prior to removing the flip-off cap. Do not administer Heparin Sodium Injection by intramuscular injection because of the risk of hematoma at the injection site [ see Adverse Reactions (6) ]. 2.3 Laboratory Monitoring for Efficacy and Safety Adjust the dosage of Heparin Sodium Injection according to the patient’s coagulation test results. Although dosages must be adjusted for the individual patient according to the results of suitable laboratory tests, the following dosage schedules may be used as guidelines: Table 1: Recommended Adult Full-Dose Heparin Regimens for Therapeutic Anticoagulant Effect METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION FREQUENCY RECOMMENDED DOSE [based on 150 lb (68 kg) patient] Deep Subcutaneous (Intrafat) Injection Initial dose 5,000 units by intravenous injection, followed by 10,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution, subcutaneously A different site should be used for each injection to prevent the development of massive hematoma Every 8 hours or 8,000 to 10,000 units of a concentrated solution Every 12 hours 15,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution Intermittent Intravenous Injection Initial dose 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Every 4 to 6 hours 5,000 to 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Intravenous Infusion Initial dose 5,000 units by intravenous injection Continuous 20,000 to 40,000 units/24 hours in 1000 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP (or in any compatible solution) for infusion 2.5 Pediatric Use Do not use benzyl alcohol-preserved drugs in neonates and infants. Use preservative-free Heparin Sodium Injection in neonates and infants [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Heparin therapy may then be discontinued without tapering [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . 2.11 Extracorporeal Dialysis Follow equipment manufacturer's operating directions carefully. A dose of 25 units/kg to 30 units/kg followed by an infusion rate of 1,500 units/hour to 2,000 units/hour is suggested based on pharmacodynamic data if specific manufacturers’ recommendations are not available. Although dosages must be adjusted for the individual patient according to the results of suitable laboratory tests, the following dosage schedules may be used as guidelines: Table 1: Recommended Adult Full-Dose Heparin Regimens for Therapeutic Anticoagulant Effect METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION FREQUENCY RECOMMENDED DOSE [based on 150 lb (68 kg) patient] Deep Subcutaneous (Intrafat) Injection Initial dose 5,000 units by intravenous injection, followed by 10,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution, subcutaneously A different site should be used for each injection to prevent the development of massive hematoma Every 8 hours or 8,000 to 10,000 units of a concentrated solution Every 12 hours 15,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution Intermittent Intravenous Injection Initial dose 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Every 4 to 6 hours 5,000 to 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Intravenous Infusion Initial dose 5,000 units by intravenous injection Continuous 20,000 to 40,000 units/24 hours in 1000 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP (or in any compatible solution) for infusion 2.5 Pediatric Use Do not use benzyl alcohol-preserved drugs in neonates and infants. In general, the following dosage schedule may be used as a guideline in pediatric patients: Initial Dose 75 to 100 units/kg (Intravenous bolus over 10 minutes) Maintenance Dose Infants: 25 to 30 units/kg/hour; Infants < 2 months have the highest requirements (average 28 units/kg/hour) Children > 1 year of age: 18 to 20 units/kg/hour; Older children may require less heparin, similar to weight-adjusted adult dosage Monitoring Adjust heparin to maintain APTT of 60 to 85 seconds, assuming this reflects an anti-Factor Xa level of 0.35 to 0.70 2.6 Cardiovascular Surgery Patients undergoing total body perfusion for open-heart surgery should receive an initial dose of not less than 150 units of heparin sodium per kilogram of body weight. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended Adult Dosages: • Therapeutic Anticoagulant Effect with Full-Dose Heparin† ( 2.3 ) Deep Subcutaneous (Intrafat) Injection Use a different site for each injection Initial Dose 5,000 units by intravenous injection followed by 10,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution, subcutaneously Every 8 hours or Every 12 hours 8,000 to 10,000 units of a concentrated solution 15,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution Intermittent Intravenous Injection Initial Dose 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Every 4 to 6 hours 5,000 to 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Intravenous Infusion Initial Dose 5,000 units by intravenous injection Continuous 20,000 to 40,000 units/24 hours in 1,000 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP (or in any compatible solution) for infusion † Based on 150 lb (68 kg) patient. 2.1 Preparation for Administration Confirm the choice of the correct Heparin Sodium Injection vial to ensure that the 1 mL vial is not confused with a “catheter lock flush” vial or other 1 mL vial of incorrect strength [ s ee Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. When heparin is added to an infusion solution for continuous intravenous administration, the container should be inverted at least six times to ensure adequate mixing and prevent pooling of the heparin in the solution. Although dosages must be adjusted for the individual patient according to the results of suitable laboratory tests, the following dosage schedules may be used as guidelines: Table 1: Recommended Adult Full-Dose Heparin Regimens for Therapeutic Anticoagulant Effect *Based on 68 kg patient METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION FREQUENCY RECOMMENDED DOSE Deep Subcutaneous (Intrafat) Injection Use a different site for each injection to prevent the development of hematoma Initial Dose 5,000 units by intravenous injection, followed by 10,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution, subcutaneously Every 8 hours or 8,000 to 10,000 units of a concentrated solution Every 12 hours 15,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution Intermittent Intravenous Injection Initial Dose 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Every 4 to 6 hours 5,000 to 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Continuous Intravenous Infusion Initial Dose 5,000 units by intravenous injection Continuous 20,000 to 40,000 units/24 hours in 1,000 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP (or in any compatible solution) for infusion 2.4 Pediatric Dosing Use preservative-free HEPARIN SODIUM INJECTION in neonates and infants [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. 2.9 Extracorporeal Dialysis Follow equipment manufacturers' operating directions carefully. A dose of 25 to 30 units/kg followed by an infusion rate of 1,500 to 2,000 units/hour is suggested based on pharmacodynamic data if specific manufacturers' recommendations are not available. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Preparation for Administration Do not administer unless solution is clear and seal is intact. Warning: Do not use plastic containers in series connection. Such use could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container is completed. Do not use Heparin Sodium in Sodium Chloride Injection as a “catheter lock flush” product. INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE for the free flex ® Bag Leave bag in the overwrap until time of use. The intact port cap provides visual tamper evidence. Do not use if port cap is prematurely removed. Maintain strict aseptic technique during handling. To Open: Always inspect the bag before and after removal from the overwrap. Place the bag on a clean, flat surface. Starting in the bottom corner, peel the overwrap open and remove the bag. Check the bag for leaks by squeezing firmly. If leaks are found, discard the bag. Do not use if the solution is cloudy or a precipitate is present. To Prepare for Administration: Immediately before connecting the infusion set, firmly grasp the BLUE infusion port cap with the arrow pointing away from the bag between index finger and thumb. Gently break off the port cap. The membrane of the infusion port is sterile, and disinfection before initial use is not necessary if proper aseptic handling technique is followed. Use a non-vented infusion set or close the air-inlet on a vented set. The BLUE infusion port is compatible with spike systems produced according to ISO 8536-4, with an external spike diameter of 5.5 to 5.7 mm. Close the roller clamp of the infusion set. Hold the base of the BLUE infusion port and insert the spike by rotating your wrist slightly until the spike is fully inserted. The port membrane contains a self-sealing septum that helps prevent leakage after removing the spike. The infusion port is not intended to be spiked more than once. Hang from the hole at the top of the bag. For Single Use Only. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Maintenance of Catheter Patency The recommended starting dose is 6 units per hour by intravenous infusion through an intravenous catheter to maintain catheter patency. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Recommended Adult Dosages: • Therapeutic Anticoagulant Effect with Full-Dose Heparin† ( 2.3 ) Deep Subcutaneous (Intrafat) Injection Use a different site for each injection Initial Dose 5,000 units by intravenous injection followed by 10,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution, subcutaneously Every 8 hours or Every 12 hours 8,000 to 10,000 units of a concentrated solution 15,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution Intermittent Intravenous Injection Initial dose 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Every 4 to 6 hours 5,000 to 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to 100 ml of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Intravenous Infusion Initial dose 5,000 units by intravenous injection Continuous 20,000 to 40,000 units/24 hours in 1,000 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP (or in any compatible solution) for infusion † Based on 150 lb (68 kg) patient. 2.1 Preparation for Administration Confirm the choice of the correct heparin sodium injection vial to ensure that the 1 mL vial is not confused with a “catheter lock flush” vial or other 1 mL vial of incorrect strength [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Although dosages must be adjusted for the individual patient according to the results of suitable laboratory tests, the following dosage schedules may be used as guidelines: Table 1: Recommended Adult Full-Dose Heparin Regimens for Therapeutic Anticoagulant Effect METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION FREQUENCY RECOMMENDED DOSE Deep Subcutaneous (Intrafat) Injection Use a different site for each injection to prevent the development of hematoma Initial Dose 5,000 units by intravenous injection, followed by 10,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution, subcutaneously Every 8 hours or 8,000 to 10,000 units of a concentrated solution Every 12 hours 15,000 to 20,000 units of a concentrated solution Intermittent Intravenous Injection Initial Dose 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Every 4 to 6 hours 5,000 to 10,000 units, either undiluted or in 50 to 100 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Continuous Intravenous Infusion Initial Dose 5,000 units by intravenous injection Continuous 20,000 to 40,000 units/24 hours in 1,000 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP (or in any compatible solution) for infusion *Based on 68 kg patient 2.4 Pediatric Dosing Use preservative-free heparin sodium injection in neonates and infants.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of Heparin Sodium Injection is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions: History of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] ; Known hypersensitivity to heparin or pork products (e.g., anaphylactoid reactions) [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] ; In whom suitable blood coagulation tests, e.g., the whole blood clotting time, partial thromboplastin time, etc., cannot be performed at appropriate intervals (this contraindication refers to full-dose heparin; there is usually no need to monitor coagulation parameters in patients receiving low-dose heparin); An uncontrolled active bleeding state [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] , except when this is due to disseminated intravascular coagulation. Severe thrombocytopenia ( 4 ) When suitable blood coagulation tests, e.g., the whole blood clotting time, partial thromboplastin time, etc., cannot be performed at appropriate intervals ( 4 ) An uncontrolled active bleeding state, except when this is due to disseminated intravascular coagulation ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of heparin sodium is contraindicated in patients: • With history of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) (With or Without Thrombosis) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] • With a known hypersensitivity to heparin or pork products (e.g., anaphylactoid reactions) [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] • In whom suitable blood coagulation tests (e.g., the whole blood clotting time, partial thromboplastin time, etc.) cannot be performed at appropriate intervals (this contraindication refers to full-dose heparin; there is usually no need to monitor coagulation parameters in patients receiving low-dose heparin) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] • With an uncontrollable active bleeding state [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] , except when treating disseminated intravascular coagulation • History of Heparin-induced Thrombocytopenia (HIT) (With or Without Thrombosis) ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to heparin or pork products ( 4 ) • In whom suitable blood coagulation tests cannot be performed at appropriate intervals ( 4 ) • With an uncontrollable active bleeding state, except when treating disseminated intravascular coagulation ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of Heparin Sodium Injection is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions: • History of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] ; • Known hypersensitivity to heparin or pork products (e.g., anaphylactoid reactions) [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. • In whom suitable blood coagulation tests, e.g., the whole blood clotting time, partial thromboplastin time, etc., cannot be performed at appropriate intervals (this contraindication refers to full-dose heparin; there is usually no need to monitor coagulation parameters in patients receiving low-dose heparin); • An uncontrolled active bleeding state [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ], except when this is due to disseminated intravascular coagulation. • Severe thrombocytopenia ( 4 ) • When suitable blood coagulation tests, e.g., the whole blood clotting time, partial thromboplastin time, etc., cannot be performed at appropriate intervals ( 4 ) • An uncontrolled active bleeding state, except when this is due to disseminated intravascular coagulation ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of Heparin Sodium in Sodium Chloride Injection is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions: • Uncontrollable active bleeding state, except when this is due to disseminated intravascular coagulation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] • History of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) and heparin-induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis (HITT) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] • Severe thrombocytopenia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3) ] • Known hypersensitivity to heparin or pork products (e.g., anaphylactoid reactions) [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] Heparin Sodium in Sodium Chloride Injection is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions: ( 4 ) • With an uncontrollable active bleeding state, except when this is due to disseminated intravascular coagulation ( 5.1 ) • With a history of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) or heparin-induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis (HITT) ( 5.2 ) • With severe thrombocytopenia ( 5.2 , 5.3 ) • Known hypersensitivity to heparin or pork products ( 5.5 ) History of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) or heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis (HITTS) ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to heparin or pork products ( 4 ) In whom suitable blood coagulation tests cannot be performed at appropriate intervals ( 4 ) An uncontrolled bleeding state, except when this is due to disseminated intravascular coagulation ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of heparin sodium injection is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions: History of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] ; Known hypersensitivity to heparin or pork products (e.g., anaphylactoid reactions) [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] ; In whom suitable blood coagulation tests, e.g., the whole blood clotting time, partial thromboplastin time, etc., cannot be performed at appropriate intervals (this contraindication refers to full-dose heparin; there is usually no need to monitor coagulation parameters in patients receiving low-dose heparin); An uncontrolled active bleeding state [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) ], except when this is due to disseminated intravascular coagulation. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of Heparin Sodium Injection is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions: History of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] ; Known hypersensitivity to heparin or pork products (e.g., anaphylactoid reactions) [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] ; In whom suitable blood coagulation tests, e.g., the whole blood clotting time, partial thromboplastin time, etc., cannot be performed at appropriate intervals (this contraindication refers to full-dose heparin; there is usually no need to monitor coagulation parameters in patients receiving low-dose heparin); An uncontrolled active bleeding state [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ], except when this is due to disseminated intravascular coagulation. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of Heparin Sodium Injection is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions: • History of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] ; • Known hypersensitivity to heparin or pork products (e.g., anaphylactoid reactions) [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]; • In whom suitable blood coagulation tests, e.g., the whole blood clotting time, partial thromboplastin time, etc., cannot be performed at appropriate intervals (this contraindication refers to full-dose heparin; there is usually no need to monitor coagulation parameters in patients receiving low-dose heparin); • An uncontrolled active bleeding state [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] , except when this is due to disseminated intravascular coagulation. • History of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) or heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis (HITTS) ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to heparin or pork products ( 4 ) • In whom suitable blood coagulation tests cannot be performed at appropriate intervals ( 4 ) • An uncontrolled bleeding state, except when this is due to disseminated intravascular coagulation ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of HEPARIN SODIUM IN SODIUM CHLORIDE is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions: Uncontrollable active bleeding state, except when this is due to disseminated intravascular coagulation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] History of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) and heparin-induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis (HITT) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Severe thrombocytopenia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] Known hypersensitivity to heparin or pork products (e.g., anaphylactoid reactions) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] Heparin Sodium in Sodium Chloride Injection is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions: ( 4 ) Uncontrollable active bleeding state, except when this is due to disseminated intravascular coagulation ( 5.1 ) History of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) and heparin induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis ( 5.2 ) Severe thrombocytopenia ( 5.3 ) Known hypersensitivity to heparin or pork products ( 5.5 , 6.1 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of heparin sodium injection is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions: • History of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] ; • Known hypersensitivity to heparin or pork products (e.g., anaphylactoid reactions) [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] ; • In whom suitable blood coagulation tests, e.g., the whole blood clotting time, partial thromboplastin time, etc., cannot be performed at appropriate intervals (this contraindication refers to full-dose heparin; there is usually no need to monitor coagulation parameters in patients receiving low-dose heparin); • An uncontrolled active bleeding state [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] , except when this is due to disseminated intravascular coagulation.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that interfere with platelet aggregation: May induce bleeding ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Oral Anticoagulants Heparin sodium may prolong the one-stage prothrombin time. Therefore, when heparin sodium is given with dicumarol or warfarin sodium, a period of at least 5 hours after the last intravenous dose or 24 hours after the last subcutaneous dose should elapse before blood is drawn, if a valid prothrombin time is to be obtained. 7.2 Platelet Inhibitors Drugs such as NSAIDS (including salicylic acid, ibuprofen, indomethacin, and celecoxib), dextran, phenylbutazone, thienopyridines, dipyridamole, hydroxychloroquine, glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonists (including abciximab, eptifibatide, and tirofiban), and others that interfere with platelet-aggregation reactions (the main hemostatic defense of heparinized patients) may induce bleeding and should be used with caution in patients receiving heparin sodium. To reduce the risk of bleeding, a reduction in the dose of antiplatelet agent or heparin is recommended. 7.3 Other Interactions Digitalis, tetracyclines, nicotine or antihistamines may partially counteract the anticoagulant action of heparin sodium. Intravenous nitroglycerin administered to heparinized patients may result in a decrease of the partial thromboplastin time with subsequent rebound effect upon discontinuation of nitroglycerin. Careful monitoring of partial thromboplastin time and adjustment of heparin dosage are recommended during coadministration of heparin and intravenous nitroglycerin. Antithrombin III (human) – The anticoagulant effect of heparin is enhanced by concurrent treatment with antithrombin III (human) in patients with hereditary antithrombin III deficiency. To reduce the risk of bleeding, a reduced dosage of heparin is recommended during treatment with antithrombin III (human). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Drugs that interfere with coagulation, platelet aggregation or drugs that counteract coagulation may induce bleeding ( 7 ) • Andexanet alfa may reduce the efficacy of heparin when used concomitantly ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Oral Anticoagulants Heparin sodium may prolong the one-stage prothrombin time. Therefore, when heparin sodium is given with dicumarol or warfarin sodium, a period of at least 5 hours after the last intravenous dose or 24 hours after the last subcutaneous dose should elapse before blood is drawn if a valid prothrombin time is to be obtained. 7.2 Platelet Inhibitors Drugs such as acetylsalicylic acid, dextran, phenylbutazone, ibuprofen, indomethacin, dipyridamole, hydroxychloroquine and others that interfere with platelet-aggregation reactions (the main hemostatic defense of heparinized patients) may induce bleeding and should be used with caution in patients receiving heparin sodium. 7.3 Unresponsiveness to Heparin With Concomitant Use With Andexanet Alfa Andexanet binds to heparin-bound antithrombin III (ATIII) and may reduce the anticoagulant effect of heparin. Unresponsiveness to unfractionated heparin may lead to serious and life-threatening thrombotic events. Use of andexanet alfa as an antidote for heparin has not been established. Avoid use of heparin after use of andexanet alfa for the reversal of direct Factor Xa inhibitors (apixaban and rivaroxaban). If anticoagulation is needed, use an alternative anticoagulant to heparin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . 7.4 Other Interactions Digitalis, tetracyclines, nicotine, or antihistamines, or intravenous nitroglycerin may partially counteract the anticoagulant action of heparin sodium. 7.5 Drug/Laboratory Tests Interactions Prothrombin time – Heparin sodium may prolong the one-stage prothrombin time. Therefore, when heparin sodium is given with warfarin, allow a period of at least 5 hours after the last intravenous dose or 24 hours after the last subcutaneous dose of heparin to elapse before blood is drawn to obtain a valid prothrombin time. Hyperaminotransferasemia Significant elevations of aminotransferase AST (SGOT) and ALT (SGPT) levels have occurred in a high percentage of patients (and healthy subjects) who have received heparin. Since aminotransferase determinations are important in the differential diagnosis of myocardial infarction, liver disease and pulmonary emboli, rises that might be caused by drugs (like heparin) should be interpreted with caution. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that interfere with platelet aggregation or drugs that counteract coagulation may induce bleeding ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Oral Anticoagulants Heparin sodium may prolong the one-stage prothrombin time. 7.2 Platelet Inhibitors Drugs such as NSAIDS (including acetylsalicylic acid, ibuprofen, indomethacin, and celecoxib), dextran, phenylbutazone, thienopyridines, dipyridamole, hydroxychloroquine, glycoprotein IIv/IIa antagonists (including abciximab, eptifibatide, and tirofiban), and others that interfere with platelet-aggregation reactions (the main hemostatic defense of heparinized patients) may induce bleeding and should be used with caution in patients receiving heparin sodium. 7.3 Other Medications that May Interfere with Heparin Digitalis, tetracyclines, nicotine or antihistamines may partially counteract the anticoagulant action of heparin sodium. Drugs that interfere with coagulation, platelet aggregation or drugs that counteract coagulation may induce bleeding ( 7.2 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Oral Anticoagulants Heparin sodium may prolong the one-stage prothrombin time. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that interfere with coagulation, platelet aggregation or drugs that counteract coagulation may induce bleeding ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Oral Anticoagulants Heparin sodium may prolong the one-stage prothrombin time. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that interfere with platelet aggregation or drugs that counteract coagulation may induce bleeding. ( 7 ) 7.1 Oral Anticoagulants Heparin sodium may prolong the one-stage prothrombin time. 7.2 Platelet Inhibitors Drugs such as NSAIDS (including acetylsalicylic acid, ibuprofen, indomethacin, and celecoxib), dextran, phenylbutazone, thienopyridines, dipyridamole, hydroxychloroquine, glycoprotein IIv/IIa antagonists (including abciximab, eptifobatide, and tirofiban), and others that interfere with platelet-aggregation reactions (the main hemostatic defense of heparinized patients) may induce bleeding and should be used with caution in patients receiving heparin sodium. To reduce the risk of bleeding, a reduction in the dose of the antiplatelet agent or heparin is recommended.

=== ACETAMINOPHEN AND CODEINE PHOSPHATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are indicated for the management of mild to moderate pain, where treatment with an opioid is appropriate and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, with opioids, even at recommended doses (see WARNINGS ), reserve acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics) · Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia, · Have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosage or duration and persist over the course of therapy, reserve opioid analgesics, including acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration ( see WARNINGS ), reserve acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics) Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia, Have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated. Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosage or duration and persist over the course of therapy, (see WARNINGS ), reserve opioid analgesics, including codeine phosphate for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. Limitations of Use • Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosage or duration and persist over the course of therapy ( see WARNINGS ), reserve opioid analgesics, including acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosage or duration and persist over the course of therapy ( see WARNINGS ), reserve opioid analgesics, including acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration (see WARNINGS ) , reserve acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options [e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products]: Have not been tolerated or are not expected to be tolerated, Have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are indicated for the management of mild to moderate pain,where treatment with an opioid is appropriate and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration [see WARNINGS ], reserve acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options [e.g., non-opioid analgesics] · Have not been tolerated or are not expected to be tolerated. · Have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia, Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS ). Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse (see WARNINGS ). Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24–72 hours of initiating therapy and following dosage increases with acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and adjust the dosage accordingly (see WARNINGS ). Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets (see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients/Caregivers ). Inform patients and caregivers about the various ways to obtain naloxone as permitted by individual state naloxone dispensing and prescribing regulations (e.g., by prescription, directly from a pharmacist, or as part of a community-based program). Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient (see WARNINGS, Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression, Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ). Consider prescribing naloxone when the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose. Initial Dosage Initiating Treatment with acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets Dosage should be adjusted according to severity of pain and response of the patient. However, it should be kept in mind that tolerance to codeine can develop with continued use and that the incidence of untoward effects is dose related. Adult doses of codeine higher than 60 mg are associated with an increased incidence of adverse reactions and are not associated with greater efficacy. The usual adult dosage is: Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets (codeine 15 mg and acetaminophen 300 mg): Take 1 to 2 tablets every 4 hours as needed for pain. Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets (codeine 30 mg and acetaminophen 300 mg): Take 1 to 2 tablets every 4 hours as needed for pain. Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets (codeine 60 mg and acetaminophen 300 mg): Take one tablet every 4 hours as needed for pain. Single Doses (Range) Maximum 24-Hour Dose Codeine Phosphate 15 mg to 60 mg 360 mg Acetaminophen 300 mg to 1000 mg 4000 mg The prescriber must determine the number of tablets per dose, and the maximum number of tablets per 24 hours, based upon the above dosage guidance. This information should be conveyed in the prescription. Conversion from Other Opioids to acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets There is inter-patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and opioid formulations. Therefore, a conservative approach is advised when determining the total daily dosage of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. It is safer to underestimate a patient's 24-hour acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage than to overestimate the 24-hour acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to overdose. Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions, as well as monitoring for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse (see WARNINGS ). Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration. If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage. If unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed, consider reducing the dosage. Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions. Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets Do not abruptly discontinue acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. Rapid discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. Patients may also attempt to treat their pain or withdrawal symptoms with illicit opioids, such as heroin, and other substances. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the dose of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. It is important to ensure ongoing care of the patient and to agree on an appropriate tapering schedule and follow-up plan so that patient and provider goals and expectations are clear and realistic. When opioid analgesics are being discontinued due to a suspected substance use disorder, evaluate and treat the patient, or refer for evaluation and treatment of the substance use disorder. Treatment should include evidence-based approaches, such as medication assisted treatment of opioid use disorder. Complex patients with co-morbid pain and substance use disorders may benefit from referral to a specialist. There are no standard opioid tapering schedules that are suitable for all patients. Good clinical practice dictates a patient-specific plan to taper the dose of the opioid gradually. For patients on acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. Patients who have been taking opioids for briefer periods of time may tolerate a more rapid taper. It may be necessary to provide the patient with lower dosage strengths to accomplish a successful taper. Reassess the patient frequently to manage pain and withdrawal symptoms, should they emerge. Common withdrawal symptoms include restlessness, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, yawning, perspiration, chills, myalgia, and mydriasis. Other signs and symptoms also may develop, including irritability, anxiety, backache, joint pain, weakness, abdominal cramps, insomnia, nausea, anorexia, vomiting, diarrhea, or increased blood pressure, respiratory rate, or heart rate. If withdrawal symptoms arise, it may be necessary to pause the taper for a period of time or raise the dose of the opioid analgesic to the previous dose, and then proceed with a slower taper. In addition, monitor patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for a long duration and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see WARNINGS ; Withdrawal , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings]. Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. Clinical guidelines on opioid prescribing for some acute pain conditions are available. There is variability in the opioid analgesic dose and duration needed to adequately manage pain due both to the cause of pain and to individual patient factors. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings]. Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets]. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see Warnings ]. Patient Access to an Opioid Overdose Reversal Agent for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Inform patients and caregivers about opioid overdose reversal agents (e.g., naloxone, nalmefene). Discuss the importance of having access to an opioid overdose reversal agent, especially if the patient has risk factors for overdose (e.g., concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose) or if there are household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the management of pain in any patient [ see WARNINGS; Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression; Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ]. Discuss the options for obtaining an opioid overdose reversal agent (e.g., prescription, over-the-counter, or as part of a community-based program). There are important differences among the opioid overdose reversal agents, such as route of administration, product strength, approved patient age range, and pharmacokinetics. Be familiar with these differences, as outlined in the approved labeling for those products, prior to recommending or prescribing such an agent. Initial Dosage Use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets as the First Opioid Analgesic Initiate treatment with acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in a dosing range of 300 mg to 600 mg of acetaminophen and 15 mg to 60 mg of codeine phosphate every 4 hours as needed for pain, at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of Acetaminophen and Codeine Phosphate Tablets. The usual adult dosage is: Acetaminophen and Codeine P hosphate Tablets (codeine 15 mg and acetaminophen 300 mg): Take 1 to 2 tablets every 4 hours as needed for pain. Acetaminophen and Codeine Phosphate Tablets (codeine 30 mg and acetaminophen 300 mg): Take 1 to 2 tablet every 4 hours as needed for pain. Single Doses (Range) Maximum 24-Hour Dose Codeine Phosphate 15 mg to 60 mg 360 mg Acetaminophen 300 mg to 1,000 mg 4,000 mg The prescriber must determine the number of tablets per dose, and the maximum number of tablets per 24 hours, based upon the above dosage guidance. It is safer to underestimate a patient’s 24-hour acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage than to overestimate the 24-hour acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to overdose. Continually reevaluate patients receiving acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as reassessing for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see WARNINGS ]. If after increasing the dosage unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed, (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see Warnings ]. Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. Rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. For patients on acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. In addition, evaluate patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for an extended period of time and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see WARNINGS/ Withdrawal, DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse ( see WARNINGS ). Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments ( see WARNINGS ). Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets ( see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ). The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient ( see WARNINGS, Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse , Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression, Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ). Consider prescribing naloxone when the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose . Initial Dosage Use of Acetaminophen and Codeine Phosphate Tablets as the First Opioid Analgesic Initiate treatment with acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in a dosing range of 300 mg to 600 mg of acetaminophen and 30 mg to 60 mg of codeine phosphate every 4 hours as needed for pain, at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Continually reevaluate patients receiving acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as reassessing for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse ( see WARNINGS ). If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage ( see WARNINGS ). When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated an extended period of time, and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic ( see WARNINGS, Withdrawal and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ). Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings ]. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings ]. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the management of pain in any patient [see WARNINGS; Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression; Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants]. Single Doses (Range) Maximum 24-Hour Dose Codeine Phosphate 15 mg to 60 mg 360 mg Acetaminophen 300 mg to 1,000 mg 4,000 mg The prescriber must determine the number of tablets per dose, and the maximum number of tablets per24 hours, based upon the above dosage guidance. Continually reevaluate patients receiving acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse (see WARNINGS ). If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage (see WARNINGS ). Safe Reduction and Discontinuation of Codeine Phosphate Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue codeine phosphate in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for an extended period of time, and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the management of pain in any patient ( see WARNINGS; Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse ; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ). Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS ) . Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse (see WARNINGS ). Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments (see WARNINGS ). Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets (see WARNINGS , Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients/Caregivers ). The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient (see WARNINGS , Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse , Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression , Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ). The usual adult dosage is: Acetaminophen and Codeine Phosphate Tablets, USP (codeine 15 mg and acetaminophen 300 mg): Take 1 to 2 tablets every 4 hours as needed for pain. Acetaminophen and Codeine Phosphate Tablets, USP (codeine 30 mg and acetaminophen 300 mg): Take 1 to 2 tablets every 4 hours as needed for pain. Acetaminophen and Codeine Phosphate Tablets, USP (codeine 60 mg and acetaminophen 300 mg): Take one tablet every 4 hours as needed for pain. Continually reevaluate patients receiving acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as reassessing for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse (see WARNINGS ). Safe Reduction and Discontinuation of Acetaminophen and Codeine Phosphate Tablets Do not abruptly discontinue acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Complex patients with co-morbid pain and substance use disorder may benefit from referral to a specialist. There is no standard opioid tapering schedules that are suitable for all patients. In addition, evaluate patients for changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances. When managing patients taking opioid analgesic, particularly those who have been treated for an extended period of time and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic (see WARNINGS, Withdrawal and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ). Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see Warnings]. The usual adult dosage is: Acetaminophen and Codeine P hosphate Tablets (codeine 30 mg and acetaminophen 300 mg): Take 1 to 2 tablets every 4 hours as needed for pain. If after increasing the dosage unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed, (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see Warnings]. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see WARNINGS/ Withdrawal, DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE].
Warnings: WARNINGS Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets contain codeine. Codeine in combination with acetaminophen, is a Schedule III controlled substance. As an opioid, acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets expose users to the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ). Although the risk of addiction in any individual is unknown, it can occur in patients appropriately prescribed acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. Addiction can occur at recommended dosages and if the drug is misused or abused. Assess each patient’s risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse prior to prescribing acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets, and monitor all patients receiving acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets for the development of these behaviors and conditions. Risks are increased in patients with a personal or family history of substance abuse (including drug or alcohol abuse or addiction) or mental illness (e.g., major depression). The potential for these risks should not, however, prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient. Patients at increased risk may be prescribed opioids such as acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets, but use in such patients necessitates intensive counseling about the risks and proper use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets along with intensive monitoring for signs of addiction, abuse, and misuse. Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose (see WARNINGS , Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ). Opioids are sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders and are subject to criminal diversion. Consider these risks when prescribing or dispensing acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. Strategies to reduce these risks include prescribing the drug in the smallest appropriate quantity and advising the patient on the proper disposal of unused drug (see PRECAUTIONS ; Information for Patients/Caregivers ). Contact local state professional licensing board or state controlled substances authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product. Opioid Analgesic Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) To ensure that the benefits of opioid analgesics outweigh the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has required a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) for these products. Under the requirements of the REMS, drug companies with approved opioid analgesic products must make REMS-compliant education programs available to healthcare providers. Healthcare providers are strongly encouraged to do all of the following: • Complete a REMS-compliant education program offered by an accredited provider of continuing education (CE) or another education program that includes all the elements of the FDA Education Blueprint for Health Care Providers Involved in the Management or Support of Patients with Pain. • Discuss the safe use, serious risks, and proper storage and disposal of opioid analgesics with patients and/or their caregivers every time these medicines are prescribed. The Patient Counseling Guide (PCG) can be obtained at this link: www.fda.gov/OpioidAnalgesicREMSPCG. • Emphasize to patients and their caregivers the importance of reading the Medication Guide that they will receive from their pharmacist every time an opioid analgesic is dispensed to them. • Consider using other tools to improve patient, household, and community safety, such as patient-prescriber agreements that reinforce patient-prescriber responsibilities. To obtain further information on the opioid analgesic REMS and for a list of accredited REMS CME/CE, call 800-503-0784, or log on to www.opioidanalgesicrems.com. The FDA Blueprint can be found at www.fda.gov/OpioidAnalgesicREMSBlueprint. Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression has been reported with the use of opioids, even when used as recommended. Respiratory depression, if not immediately recognized and treated, may lead to respiratory arrest and death. Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid antagonists, depending on the patient’s clinical status (see OVERDOSAGE ). Carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) retention from opioid-induced respiratory depression can exacerbate the sedating effects of opioids. While serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression can occur at any time during the use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets, the risk is greatest during the initiation of therapy or following a dosage increase. Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24-72 hours of initiating therapy with and following dosage increases of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. To reduce the risk of respiratory depression, proper dosing and titration of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are essential (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Overestimating the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage when converting patients from another opioid product can result in a fatal overdose with the first dose. Accidental ingestion of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets, especially by children, can result in respiratory depression and death due to an overdose of codeine. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help right away in the event of a known or suspected overdose (see PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients/Caregivers ). Opioids can cause sleep-related breathing disorders including central sleep apnea (CSA) and sleep-related hypoxemia. Opioid use increases the risk of CSA in a dose-dependent fashion. In patients who present with CSA, consider decreasing the opioid dosage using best practices for opioid taper (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. Inform patients and caregivers about the various ways to obtain naloxone as permitted by individual state naloxone dispensing and prescribing requirements or guidelines (e.g., by prescription, directly from a pharmacist, or as part of a community-based program). Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help, even if naloxone is administered (see PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients/Caregivers ). Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of other CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient. Also consider prescribing naloxone if the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose. If naloxone is prescribed, educate patients and caregivers on how to treat with naloxone (see WARNINGS , Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse , Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ; PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients/Caregivers ). Ultra-Rapid Metabolism of Codeine and Other Risk Factors for Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression in Children Life-threatening respiratory depression and death have occurred in children who received codeine. Codeine is subject to variability in metabolism based upon CYP2D6 genotype (described below), which can lead to an increased exposure to the active metabolite morphine. Based upon post-marketing reports, children younger than 12 years of age appear to be more susceptible to the respiratory depressant effects of codeine, particularly if there are risk factors for respiratory depression. For example, many reported cases of death occurred in the post-operative period following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy, and many of the children had evidence of being ultra-rapid metabolizers of codeine. Furthermore, children with obstructive sleep apnea who are treated with codeine for post-tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy pain may be particularly sensitive to its respiratory depressant effects. Because of the risk of life-threatening respiratory depression and death: · Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated for all children younger than 12 years of age (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). · Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated for post-operative management in pediatric patients younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). · Avoid the use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in adolescents 12 to 18 years of age who have other risk factors that may increase their sensitivity to the respiratory depressant effects of codeine unless the benefits outweigh the risks. Risk factors include conditions associated with hypoventilation, such as post-operative status, obstructive sleep apnea, obesity, severe pulmonary disease, neuromuscular disease, and concomitant use of other medications that cause respiratory depression (see WARNINGS ). · As with adults, when prescribing codeine for adolescents, healthcare providers should choose the lowest effective dose for the shortest period of time and inform patients and caregivers about these risks and the signs of morphine overdose (see OVERDOSAGE ). Nursing Mothers At least one death was reported in a nursing infant who was exposed to high levels of morphine in breast milk because the mother was an ultra-rapid metabolizer of codeine. Breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. CYP2D6 Genetic Variability: Ultra-Rapid Metabolizers Some individuals may be ultra-rapid metabolizers because of a specific CYP2D6 genotype (e.g., gene duplications denoted as *1/*1×N or *1/*2×N). The prevalence of this CYP2D6 phenotype varies widely and has been estimated at 1 to 10% for Whites (European, North American), 3 to 4% for Blacks (African Americans), 1 to 2% for East Asians (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), and may be greater than 10% in certain racial/ethnic groups (i.e., Oceanian, Northern African, Middle Eastern, Ashkenazi Jews, Puerto Rican). These individuals convert codeine into its active metabolite, morphine, more rapidly and completely than other people. This rapid conversion results in higher than expected serum morphine levels. Even at labeled dosage regimens, individuals who are ultra-rapid metabolizers may have life-threatening or fatal respiratory depression or experience signs of overdose (such as extreme sleepiness, confusion, or shallow breathing) (see OVERDOSAGE ). Therefore, individuals who are ultra-rapid metabolizers should not use acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Prolonged use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets during pregnancy can result in withdrawal in the neonate. Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome, unlike opioid withdrawal syndrome in adults, may be life-threatening if not recognized and treated, and requires management according to protocols developed by neonatology experts. Observe newborns for signs of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and manage accordingly. Advise pregnant women using opioids for a prolonged period of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available (see PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients/Caregivers, Pregnancy ). Interactions with Drugs Affecting Cytochrome P450 Isoenzymes The effects of concomitant use or discontinuation of CYP3A4 inducers, CYP3A4 inhibitors, or CYP2D6 inhibitors with codeine are complex. Use of CYP3A4 inducers, CYP3A4 inhibitors, or CYP2D6 inhibitors with acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets require careful consideration of the effects on the parent drug, codeine, and the active metabolite, morphine. CYP3A4 Interaction The concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets with all CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) or discontinuation of a CYP3A4 inducer such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations with subsequently greater metabolism by CYP2D6, resulting in greater morphine levels, which could increase or prolong adverse reactions and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression. The concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets with all CYP3A4 inducers or discontinuation of a CYP3A4 inhibitor may result in lower codeine levels, greater norcodeine levels, and less metabolism via CYP2D6 with resultant lower morphine levels. This may be associated with a decrease in efficacy, and in some patients, may result in signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Follow patients receiving acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and any CYP3A4 inhibitor or inducer for signs and symptoms that may reflect opioid toxicity and opioid withdrawal when acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are used in conjunction with inhibitors and inducers of CYP3A4 (see WARNINGS , Drug Interactions ). If concomitant use of a CYP3A4 inhibitor is necessary or if a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider dosage reduction of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. If concomitant use of a CYP3A4 inducer is necessary or if a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Risks of Concomitant Use or Discontinuation of CYP2D6 Inhibitors The concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets with all CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., amiodarone, quinidine) may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations and a decrease in active metabolite morphine plasma concentration which could result in an analgesic efficacy reduction or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a concomitantly used CYP2D6 inhibitor may result in a decrease in codeine plasma concentration and an increase in active metabolite morphine plasma concentration which could increase or prolong adverse reactions and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression. Follow patients receiving acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and any CYP2D6 inhibitor for signs and symptoms that may reflect opioid toxicity and opioid withdrawal when acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are used in conjunction with inhibitors of CYP2D6. If concomitant use with a CYP2D6 inhibitor is necessary, follow the patient for signs of reduced efficacy or opioid withdrawal and consider increasing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage. After stopping use of a CYP2D6 inhibitor, consider reducing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage and follow the patient for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression or sedation (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Hepatotoxicity Acetaminophen has been associated with cases of acute liver failure, at times resulting in liver transplant and death. Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses that exceed 4,000 milligrams per day, and often involve more than one acetaminophen-containing product. The excessive intake of acetaminophen may be intentional to cause self-harm or unintentional as patients attempt to obtain more pain relief or unknowingly take other acetaminophen-containing products. The risk of acute liver failure is higher in individuals with underlying liver disease and in individuals who ingest alcohol while taking acetaminophen. Instruct patients to look for acetaminophen or APAP on package labels and not to use more than one product that contains acetaminophen. Instruct patients to seek medical attention immediately upon ingestion of more than 4,000 milligrams of acetaminophen per day, even if they feel well. Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets with benzodiazepines and/or other CNS depressants (e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, alcohol). Because of these risks, reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Observational studies have demonstrated that concomitant use of opioid analgesics and benzodiazepines increases the risk of drug-related mortality compared to use of opioid analgesics alone. Because of similar pharmacological properties, it is reasonable to expect similar risk with the concomitant use of other CNS depressant drugs with opioid analgesics (see PRECAUTIONS ; Drug Interactions ). If the decision is made to prescribe a benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant concomitantly with an opioid analgesic, prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use. In patients already receiving an opioid analgesic, prescribe a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant than indicated in the absence of an opioid, and titrate based on clinical response. If an opioid analgesic is initiated in a patient already taking a benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant, prescribe a lower initial dose of the opioid analgesic, and titrate based on clinical response. Follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose (see WARNINGS , Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ). Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are used with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants (including alcohol and illicit drugs). Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use of the benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant have been determined. Screen patients for risk of substance use disorders, including opioid abuse and misuse, and warn them of the risk for overdose and death associated with the use of additional CNS depressants including alcohol and illicit drugs (see PRECAUTIONS ; Drug Interactions , Information for Patients/Caregivers ). Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression in Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease or Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients The use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in patients with acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment is contraindicated. Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets-treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantially compromised respiratory function, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea, even at recommended dosages of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets (see WARNINGS ; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ). Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients because they may have altered pharmacokinetics, including clearance, compared to younger, healthier patients (see WARNINGS ; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ). Monitor such patients closely, particularly when initiating and titrating acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and when acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration (see WARNINGS ; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ). Alternatively, consider the use of non-opioid analgesics in these patients. Interaction with Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) may potentiate the effects of morphine, codeine's active metabolite, including respiratory depression, coma, and confusion. Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets should not be used in patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Adrenal Insufficiency Cases of adrenal insufficiency have been reported with opioid use, more often following greater than 1 month of use. Presentation of adrenal insufficiency may include non-specific symptoms and signs including nausea, vomiting, anorexia, fatigue, weakness, dizziness, and low blood pressure. If adrenal insufficiency is suspected, confirm the diagnosis with diagnostic testing as soon as possible. If adrenal insufficiency is diagnosed, treat with physiologic replacement doses of corticosteroids. Wean the patient off of the opioid to allow adrenal function to recover and continue corticosteroid treatment until adrenal function recovers. Other opioids may be tried as some cases reported use of a different opioid without recurrence of adrenal insufficiency. The information available does not identify any particular opioids as being more likely to be associated with adrenal insufficiency. Severe Hypotension Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets may cause severe hypotension including orthostatic hypotension and syncope in ambulatory patients. There is increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs(e.g., phenothiazines or general anesthetics) (see PRECAUTIONS ; Drug Interactions ). Monitor these patients for signs of hypotension after initiating or titrating the dosage of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. In patients with circulatory shock acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets may cause vasodilatation that can further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. Avoid the use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets with circulatory shock. Serious Skin Reactions Rarely, acetaminophen may cause serious skin reactions such as acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Patients should be informed about the signs of serious skin reactions, and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Risks of Use in Patients with Increased Intracranial Pressure, Brain Tumors, Head Injury, or Impaired Consciousness In patients who may be susceptible to the intracranial effects of CO 2 retention (e.g., those with evidence of increased intracranial pressure or brain tumors), acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets may reduce respiratory drive, and the resultant CO 2 retention can further increase intracranial pressure. Monitor such patients for signs of sedation and respiratory depression, particularly when initiating therapy with acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. Opioids may also obscure the clinical course in a patient with a head injury. Avoid the use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in patients with impaired consciousness or coma. Hypersensitivity/Anaphylaxis There have been post-marketing reports of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis associated with the use of acetaminophen. Clinical signs included swelling of the face, mouth, and throat, respiratory distress, urticaria, rash, pruritus, and vomiting. There were infrequent reports of life-threatening anaphylaxis requiring emergency medical attention. Instruct patients to discontinue acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms. Do not prescribe acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets for patients with acetaminophen allergy (see PRECAUTIONS ; Information for Patients/Caregivers ). Risks of Use in Patients with Gastrointestinal Conditions Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated in patients with known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi. Opioids may cause increases in serum amylase. Monitor patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis, for worsening symptoms. Increased Risk of Seizures in Patients with Seizure Disorders The codeine in acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets may increase the frequency of seizures in patients with seizure disorders, and may increase the risk of seizures occurring in other clinical settings associated with seizures. Monitor patients with a history of seizure disorders for worsened seizure control during acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets therapy. Withdrawal Do not abruptly discontinue acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids. Rapid tapering of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids may lead to a withdrawal syndrome and return of pain [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ]. Additionally, avoid the use of mixed agonist/antagonist (e.g., pentazocine, nalbuphine, and butorphanol) or partial agonist (e.g., buprenorphine) analgesics in patients who are receiving a full opioid agonist analgesic, including acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. In these patients, mixed agonists/antagonist and partial agonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms [see PRECAUTIONS / Drug Interactions ]. Avoid the use of mixed agonist/antagonist (e.g, pentazocine, nalbuphine, and butorphanol) or partial agonist (e.g., buprenorphine) analgesics in patients who are receiving a full opioid agonist analgesic, including acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. In these patients, mixed agonist/antagonist and partial analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. When discontinuing acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets, gradually taper the dosage (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Do not abruptly discontinue acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ). WARNINGS Addiction, Abuse and Misuse: Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets contain codeine. As an opioid, acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets expose users to the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse [see DRUG ABUSE and DEPENDENCE ]. The risk of opioid-related overdose or overdose-related death is increased with higher opioid doses, and this risk persists over the course of therapy. In postmarketing studies, addiction, abuse, misuse, and fatal and non-fatal opioid overdose were observed in patients with long-term opioid use [ see ADVSERVE REACTIONS ]. Assess each patient’s risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse prior to prescribing acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets, and reassess all patients receiving acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets for the development of these behaviors and conditions. Patients at increased risk may be prescribed opioids such as acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets, but use in such patients necessitates intensive counseling about the risks and proper use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets along with frequent reevaluation for signs of addiction, abuse, and misuse. Consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [ WARNINGS, DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ]. Opioids are sought for nonmedical use and are subject to diversion from legitimate prescribed use. Strategies to reduce these risks include prescribing the drug in the smallest appropriate quantity and advising the patient on careful storage of the drug during the course of treatment and the proper disposal of unused drug. Contact local state professional licensing board or state-controlled substances authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product. Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid overdose reversal agents, depending on the patient’s clinical status [ see OVERDOSAGE ]. Carbon dioxide (CO2) retention from opioid-induced respiratory depression can exacerbate the sedating effects of opioids. To reduce the risk of respiratory depression, proper dosing and titration of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are essential [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ]. Accidental ingestion of even one dose of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets, especially by children, can result in respiratory depression and death due to an overdose of codeine. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help right away in the event of a known or suspected overdose [see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ] . In patients who present with CSA, consider decreasing the opioid dosage using best practices for opioid taper [see Dosage and Administration ]. Patient Access to an Opioid Overdose Reversal Agent for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Inform patients and caregivers about opioid overdose reversal agents (e.g., naloxone, nalmefene). Discuss the importance of having access to an opioid overdose reversal agent, especially if the patient has risk factors for overdose (e.g., concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose) or if there are household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the management of pain in any patient [see WARNINGS ]. Discuss the options for obtaining an opioid overdose reversal agent (e.g., prescription, over-the-counter, or as part of a community-based program). There are important differences among the opioid overdose reversal agents, such as route of administration, product strength, approved patient age range, and pharmacokinetics. Be familiar with these differences, as outlined in the approved labeling for those products, prior to recommending or prescribing such an agent. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression, and how to use an opioid overdose reversal agent for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help, even if an opioid overdose reversal agent is administered [ see WARNINGS, OVERDOSAGE ]. Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines and Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets with benzodiazepines and/or other CNS depressants, including alcohol (e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, gabapentinoids [ gabapentin or pregabalin], other opioids). Because of similar pharmacological properties, it is reasonable to expect similar risk with the concomitant use of other CNS depressant drugs with opioid analgesics [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ] . Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction, educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [ see WARNINGS, DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, and OVERDOSAGE ]. Screen patients for risk of substance use disorders, including opioid abuse and misuse, and warn them of the risk for overdose and death associated with the use of additional CNS depressants including alcohol and illicit drugs [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions, Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets for an extended period of time during pregnancy can result in withdrawal in the neonate. Advise pregnant women using opioids for an extended period of time of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available [see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers, Pregnancy ]. Opioid Analgesic Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS): To ensure that the benefits of opioid analgesics outweigh the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has required a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) for these products. • Consider using other tools to improve patient, household, and community safety, such as patient- prescriber agreements that reinforce patient- prescriber responsibilities. Ultra-Rapid Metabolism of Codeine and Other Risk Factors for Life- Threatening Respiratory Depression in Children Life-threatening respiratory depression and death have occurred in children who received codeine. Based upon post-marketing reports, children younger than 12 years old appear to be more susceptible to the respiratory depressant effects of codeine, particularly if there are risk factors for respiratory depression. Furthermore, children with obstructive sleep apnea who are treated with codeine for post-tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy pain may be particularly sensitive to its respiratory depressant effect. Because of the risk of life-threatening respiratory depression and death: • Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated for all children younger than 12 years of age [see CONTRAINDICATIONS ]. • Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated for post- operative management in pediatric patients younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy [see CONTRAINDICATIONS ]. • Avoid the use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in adolescents 12 to 18 years of age who have other risk factors that may increase their sensitivity to the respiratory depressant effects of codeine unless the benefits outweigh the risks. Risk factors include conditions associated with hypoventilation, such as postoperative status, obstructive sleep apnea, obesity, severe pulmonary disease, neuromuscular disease, and concomitant use of other medications that cause respiratory depression. [see WARNINGS ] • As with adults, when prescribing codeine for adolescents, healthcare providers should choose the lowest effective dose for the shortest period of time and inform patients and caregivers about these risks and the signs of morphine overdose [see OVERDOSAGE ] . CYP2D6 Genetic Variability: Ultra-Rapid Metabolizers Some individuals may be ultra-rapid metabolizers because of a specific CYP2D6 genotype (e.g., gene duplications denoted as *1/*1xN or *1/*2xN). Even at labeled dosage regimens, individuals who are ultra-rapid metabolizers may have life-threatening or fatal respiratory depression or experience signs of overdose (such as extreme sleepiness, confusion, or shallow breathing) [see OVERDOSAGE ]. Interactions with Drugs Affecting Cytochrome P450 Isoenzymes The effects of concomitant use or discontinuation of cytochrome P450 3A4 inducers, 3A4 inhibitors, or 2D6 inhibitors with codeine are complex. Use of cytochrome P450 3A4 inducers, 3A4 inhibitors, or 2D6 inhibitors with acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets requires careful consideration of the effects on the parent drug, codeine, and the active metabolite, morphine. Cytochrome P450 3A4 Interaction The concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets with all cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) or discontinuation of a cytochrome P450 3A4 inducer such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations with subsequently greater metabolism by cytochrome P450 2D6, resulting in greater morphine levels, which could increase or prolong adverse reactions and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression. The concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets with all cytochrome P450 3A4 inducers or discontinuation of a cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitor may result in lower codeine levels, greater norcodeine levels, and less metabolism via 2D6 with resultant lower morphine levels. Evaluate patients receiving acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and any CYP3A4 inhibitor or inducer for signs and symptoms that may reflect opioid toxicity and opioid withdrawal when acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are used in conjunction with inhibitors and inducers of CYP3A4 [see WARNINGS, Drug Interactions ] . Evaluate patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. Evaluate for signs of opioid withdrawal (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Risks of Concomitant Use or Discontinuation of Cytochrome P450 2D6 Inhibitors The concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets with all cytochrome P450 2D6 inhibitors (e.g., amiodarone, quinidine) may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations and a decrease in active metabolite morphine plasma concentration which could result in an analgesic efficacy reduction or symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Discontinuation of a concomitantly used cytochrome P450 2D6 inhibitor may result in a decrease in codeine plasma concentration and an increase in active metabolite morphine plasma concentration which could increase or prolong adverse reactions and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression. Evaluate patients receiving acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and any CYP2D6 inhibitor for signs and symptoms that may reflect opioid toxicity and opioid withdrawal when acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are used in conjunction with inhibitors of CYP2D6. If concomitant use with a CYP2D6 inhibitor is necessary, evaluate the patient for signs of reduced efficacy or opioid withdrawal and consider increasing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage. After stopping use of a CYP2D6 inhibitor, consider reducing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage and evaluate the patient for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression or sedation. [see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ]. Opioid-Induced Hyperalgesia and Allodynia Opioid-Induced Hyperalgesia (OIH) occurs when an opioid analgesic paradoxically causes an increase in pain, or an increase in sensitivity to pain. This condition differs from tolerance, which is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect [see Dependence]. Symptoms of OIH include (but may not be limited to) increased levels of pain upon opioid dosage increase, decreased levels of pain upon opioid dosage decrease, or pain from ordinarily non-painful stimuli (allodynia). These symptoms may suggest OIH only if there is no evidence of underlying disease progression, opioid tolerance, opioid withdrawal, or addictive behavior. Cases of OIH have been reported, both with short-term and longer-term use of opioid analgesics. Though the mechanism of OIH is not fully understood, multiple biochemical pathways have been implicated. Medical literature suggests a strong biologic plausibility between opioid analgesics and OIH and allodynia. If a patient is suspected to be experiencing OIH, carefully consider appropriately decreasing the dose of the current opioid analgesic, or opioid rotation (safety safely switching the patient to a different opioid moiety) [see Dosage and Administration; Warnings ]. Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets-treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea, even at recommended dosages of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets [see WARNINGS; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression]. Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients because they may have altered pharmacokinetics, including clearance, compared to younger, healthier patients [see WARNINGS; Respiratory Depression ]. Regularly evaluate patients, particularly when initiating and titrating acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and when acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration [see WARNINGS; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ]. Interaction with Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) may potentiate the effects of morphine, codeine’s active metabolite, including respiratory depression, coma, and confusion. Severe Hypotension Acetaminophen and codeine may cause severe hypotension including orthostatic hypotension and syncope in ambulatory patients. There is increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs (e.g., phenothiazines or general anesthetics) [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ]. Regularly evaluate these patients for signs of hypotension after initiating or titrating the dosage of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. Avoid the use of acetaminophen and codeine with circulatory shock. Serious Skin Reactions Rarely, acetaminophen may cause serious skin reactions such as acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), Stevens - Johnson syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Risks of Use in Patients with Increased Intracranial Pressure, Brain Tumors, Head Injury, or Impaired Consciousness In patients who may be susceptible to the intracranial effects of CO2 retention (e.g., those with evidence of increased intracranial pressure or brain tumors), acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets may reduce respiratory drive, and the resultant CO2 retention can further increase intracranial pressure. Regularly evaluate such patients for signs of sedation and respiratory depression, particularly when initiating therapy with acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. Do not prescribe acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets for patients with acetaminophen allergy [see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers]. Risks of Gastrointestinal Complications Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated in patients with gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. The administration of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets or other opioids may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions. The acetaminophen and codeine phosphate in acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi. Cases of opioid-induced esophageal dysfunction (OIED) have been reported in patients taking opioids. The risk of OIED may increase as the dose and/or duration of opioids increases. Regularly evaluate patients for signs and symptoms of OIED (e.g., dysphagia, regurgitation, non-cardiac chest pain), and if necessary, adjust opioid therapy as clinically appropriate [ see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] Increased Risk of Seizures in Patients with Seizure Disorders The codeine in acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets may increase the frequency of seizures in patients with seizure disorders, and may increase the risk of seizures occurring in other clinical settings associated with seizures. Regularly evaluate patients with a history of seizure disorders for worsened seizure control during acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets therapy. Withdrawal Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids. When discontinuing acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in a physically dependent patient, gradually taper the dosage. Rapid tapering of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids may lead to a withdrawal syndrome and return of pain [see Dosage and Administration, Drug Abuse and Dependence ]. In these patients, mixed agonist/antagonist and partial agonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms [see Drug Interactions] . As an opioid, acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets expose users to the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ). Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose ( see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ). Strategies to reduce these risks include prescribing the drug in the smallest appropriate quantity and advising the patient on careful storage of the drug during the course of treatment and proper disposal of unused drug. Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid antagonists, depending on the patient’s clinical status ( see OVERDOSAGE ). To reduce the risk of respiratory depression, proper dosing and titration of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are essential ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help right away in the event of a known or suspected overdose ( see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ). In patients who present with CSA, consider decreasing the opioid dosage using best practices for opioid taper ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help, even if naloxone is administered ( see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ). If naloxone is prescribed, educate patients and caregivers on how to treat with naloxone ( see WARNINGS, Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse , Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ; PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ). Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets with benzodiazepines and/or other CNS depressants, including alcohol (e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, alcohol). Because of similar pharmacological properties, it is reasonable to expect similar risk with the concomitant use of other CNS depressant drugs with opioid analgesics ( see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose ( see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ). Screen patients for risk of substance use disorders, including opioid abuse and misuse, and warn them of the risk for overdose and death associated with the use of additional CNS depressants including alcohol and illicit drugs ( see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions and Information for Patients/Caregivers ). Advise pregnant women using opioids for an extended period of time of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available ( see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers , Pregnancy ). Healthcare providers are strongly encouraged to do all of the following: Complete a REMS-compliant education program offered by an accredited provider of continuing education (CE) or another education program that includes all the elements of the FDA Education Blueprint for Health Care Providers Involved in the Management or Support of Patients with Pain. Discuss the safe use, serious risks, and proper storage and disposal of opioid analgesics with patients and/or their caregivers every time these medicines are prescribed. Emphasize to patients and their caregivers the importance of reading the Medication Guide that they will receive from their pharmacist every time an opioid analgesic is dispensed to them. Consider using other tools to improve patient, household, and community safety, such as patient-prescriber agreements that reinforce patient-prescriber responsibilities. The FDA Blueprint can be found at www.fda.gov/OpioidAnalgesicREMSBlueprint . Based upon postmarketing reports, children younger than 12 years old appear to be more susceptible to the respiratory depressant effects of codeine, particularly if there are risk factors for respiratory depression. For example, many reported cases of death occurred in the postoperative period following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy, and many of the children had evidence of being ultra-rapid metabolizers of codeine. Because of the risk of life-threatening respiratory depression and death: Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated for all children younger than 12 years of age ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated for postoperative management in pediatric patients younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Avoid the use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in adolescents 12 to 18 years of age who have other risk factors that may increase their sensitivity to the respiratory depressant effects of codeine unless the benefits outweigh the risks. Risk factors include conditions associated with hypoventilation, such as postoperative status, obstructive sleep apnea, obesity, severe pulmonary disease, neuromuscular disease, and concomitant use of other medications that cause respiratory depression ( see WARNINGS ). As with adults, when prescribing codeine for adolescents, healthcare providers should choose the lowest effective dose for the shortest period of time and inform patients and caregivers about these risks and the signs of morphine overdose ( see OVERDOSAGE ). Even at labeled dosage regimens, individuals who are ultra-rapid metabolizers may have life-threatening or fatal respiratory depression or experience signs of overdose (such as extreme sleepiness, confusion, or shallow breathing) ( see OVERDOSAGE ). Evaluate patients receiving acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and any CYP3A4 inhibitor or inducer for signs and symptoms that may reflect opioid toxicity and opioid withdrawal when acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are used in conjunction with inhibitors and inducers of CYP3A4 ( see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Evaluate patients at frequent intervals for respiratory depression and sedation. Evaluate for signs of opioid withdrawal ( see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). If concomitant use with a CYP2D6 inhibitor is necessary, assess the patient for signs of reduced efficacy or opioid withdrawal and consider increasing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage. After stopping use of a CYP2D6 inhibitor, consider reducing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage and evaluate the patient at frequent intervals for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression or sedation ( see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). This condition differs from tolerance, which is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect ( see Dependence ). If a patient is suspected to be experiencing OIH, carefully consider appropriately decreasing the dose of the current opioid analgesic, or opioid rotation (safely switching the patient to a different opioid moiety) ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , WARNINGS ). Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets-treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea, even at recommended dosages of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets ( see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ). Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients because they may have altered pharmacokinetics, including clearance, compared to younger, healthier patients ( see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ). Regularly evaluate patients, particularly when initiating and titrating acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and when acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration ( see WARNINGS ). There is increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs (e.g., phenothiazines or general anesthetics) ( see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Hypersensitivity/Anaphylaxis There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis associated with the use of acetaminophen. Do not prescribe acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets for patients with acetaminophen allergy ( see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ). Risks of Use in Patients with Gastrointestinal Conditions Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated in patients with gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. Regularly evaluate patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis, for worsening symptoms. Rapid tapering of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids may lead to a withdrawal syndrome and return of pain ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ). In these patients, mixed agonist/antagonist and partial analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms ( see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). In postmarketing studies, addiction, abuse, misuse, and fatal and non-fatal opioid overdose were observed in patients with long-term opioid use [ ADVERSE REACTIONS ] . Consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent (see WARNINGS , Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ). Strategies to reduce these risks include prescribing the drug in the smallest appropriate quantity and advising the patient on careful storage of the drug during the course of treatment and proper disposal of unused drug [see PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients/Caregivers ]. Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid overdose reversal agents, depending on the patient’s clinical status (see OVERDOSAGE ). While serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression can occur at any time during the use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets, the risk is greatest during the initiation of therapy or following a dosage increase of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. Emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help, even if an opioid overdose reversal agent is administered [see WARNINGS , OVERDOSAGE ]. Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines and Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets with benzodiazepines and/or other CNS depressants, including alcohol (e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, gabapentinoids [gabapentin or pregabalin], and other opioids). If concomitant use is warranted, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent (see WARNINGS , Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ). Advise pregnant women using opioids for an extended period of time of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available (see PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients /Caregivers , Pregnancy ). Furthermore, children with obstructive sleep apnea who are treated with codeine for post-tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy pain may be particularly sensitive to its respiratory depressant effects Because of the risk of life-threatening respiratory depression and death: • Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated for all children younger than 12 years of age (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). • Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated for post-operative management in pediatric patients younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). • As with adults, when prescribing codeine for adolescents, healthcare providers should choose the lowest effective dose for the shortest period of time and inform patients and caregivers about these risks and the signs of morphine overdose (see OVERDOSAGE ). Use of CYP3A4 inducers, CYP3A4 inhibitors, or CYP2D6 inhibitors with acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets requires careful consideration of the effects on the parent drug, codeine, and the active metabolite, morphine. Evaluate patients receiving acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and any CYP3A4 inhibitor or inducer for signs and symptoms that may reflect opioid toxicity and opioid withdrawal when acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are used in conjunction with inhibitors and inducers of CYP3A4 (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). After stopping use of a CYP2D6 inhibitor, consider reducing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage and evaluate the patient at frequent intervals for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression or sedation (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). If a patient is suspected to be experiencing OIH, carefully consider appropriately decreasing the dose of the current opioid analgesic, or opioid rotation (safely switching the patient to a different opioid moiety) [see Dosage and Administration; Warnings]. Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets -treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantially compromised respiratory function, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea, even at recommended dosages of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets (see WARNINGS ; Life- Threatening Respiratory Depression ). There is increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs (e.g., phenothiazines or general anesthetics) (see PRECAUTIONS ; Drug Interactions ). Risks of Gastrointestinal Complications Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated in patients with known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. The Codeine in Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi. Regularly evaluate patients for signs and symptoms of OIED (e.g., dysphagia, regurgitation, non-cardiac chest pain), and, if necessary, adjust opioid therapy as clinically appropriate [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ] . In these patients, mixed agonist/antagonist and partial agonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms [see PRECAUTIONS / Drug Interactions ]. In postmarketing studies, addiction, abuse, misuse, and fatal and non-fatal opioid overdose were observed in patients with long-term opioid use ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent ( see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ). Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid overdose reversal agents, depending on the patient’s clinical status ( see OVERDOSAGE ). The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the management of pain in any patient ( see WARNINGS ). Emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help, even if an opioid overdose reversal agent is administered ( see WARNINGS , OVERDOSAGE ) . Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets with benzodiazepines and/or other CNS depressants, including alcohol [e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, gabapentinoids (gabapentin or pregabalin), other opioids]. If concomitant use is warranted, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent ( see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ). Advise pregnant women using opioids for an extended period of time of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available ( see PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients/Caregivers , Pregnancy ). Regularly evaluate patients for signs and symptoms of OIED (e.g., dysphagia, regurgitation, non-cardiac chest pain) and, if necessary, adjust opioid therapy as clinically appropriate ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). WARNINGS Addiction, Abuse and Misuse Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets contains codeine. As an opioid, acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets expose users to the risks of addiction, abuse and misuse (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ). Assess each patient's risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse prior to prescribing acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets, and reassess all patients receiving acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets for the development of these behaviors and conditions. Strategies to reduce these risks include prescribing the drug in the smallest appropriate quantity and advising the patient on careful storage of the drug during the course of treatment and proper disposal of unused drug (see PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients/Caregivers) . Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid antagonists, depending on the patient's clinical status (see OVERDOSAGE ). While serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression can occur at any time during the use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets the risk is greatest during the initiation of therapy or following a dosage increase. Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24 to 72 hours of initiating therapy with and following dosage increases of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets. Opioids can cause sleep-related breathing disorder including central sleep apnea (CSA) and sleep-related hypoxemia. In patients who present with, consider decreasing the opioid dosage using best practices for opioid taper (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Inform patients and caregivers about the various ways to obtain naloxone as permitted by individual state naloxone dispensing and prescribing requirements or guidelines (e.g., by prescription, directly from a pharmacist, or as part of a community based program). If naloxone is prescribed, educate patients and caregivers on how to treat with naloxone (see WARNINGS , Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse; Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ; PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients/Caregivers , OVERDOSAGE ). Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets with benzodiazepines and/or other CNS depressants, including alcohol (e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids). Because of similar pharmacological properties, it is reasonable to expect similar risk with the concomitant use of other CNS depressant drugs with opioid analgesics (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction, educate them on signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose (see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose ). Advise pregnant women using opioids for an extended period of time of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available (see PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients/Caregivers , Pregnancy ). To obtain further information on the opioid analgesics REMS and for a list of accredited REMS CME/CE, call 1-800-503-0784, or log on to www.opiodanalgesicrems.com. Because of the risk of life-threatening respiratory depression and death: Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated for all children younger than 12 years of age (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated for post-operative management in pediatric patients younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). As with adults, when prescribing codeine for adolescents, healthcare providers should choose the lowest effective dose for the shortest period of time and inform patients and caregivers about these risks and the signs of morphine overdose (see OVERDOSAGE ). Evaluate patients receiving acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and any CYP3A4 inhibitor or inducer for signs and symptoms that may reflect opioid toxicity and opioid withdrawal when acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are used in conjunction with inhibitors and inducers of CYP3A4 (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). This condition differs from tolerance, which is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect (see Dependence ). If a patient is suspected to be experiencing OIH, carefully consider appropriately decreasing the dose of the current opioid analgesic or opioid rotation (safely switching the patient to a different opioid moiety) (see Dosage and Administration , WARNINGS ). Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets-treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, and those with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea, even at recommended dosages of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets (see WARNINGS , Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ). Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients because they may have altered pharmacokinetics, including clearance, compared to younger, healthier patients (see WARNINGS , Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression ). Regularly evaluate patients, particularly when initiating and titrating acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and when acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration (see WARNINGS ). Alternatively, consider the use of nonopioid analgesics in these patients. Presentation of adrenal insufficiency may include nonspecific symptoms and signs including nausea, vomiting, anorexia, fatigue, weakness, dizziness, and low blood pressure. There is increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs (e.g., phenothiazines or general anesthetics) (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Do not prescribe acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets for patients with acetaminophen allergy (see PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients/Caregivers ). Rapid tapering of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids may lead to a withdrawal syndrome and return of pain (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ). In these patients, mixed agonist/antagonist and partial analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see WARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression; Dosage and Administration, Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose]. Opioids are sought for nonmedical use and are subject to diversion from legitimate prescribed use . Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid antagonists, depending on the patient’s clinical status [see OVERDOSAGE]. To reduce the risk of respiratory depression, proper dosing and titration of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are essential [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION]. Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help right away in the event of a known or suspected overdose [see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers]. In patients who present with CSA, consider decreasing the opioid dosage using best practices for opioid taper [see Dosage and Administration]. Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets.Inform patients and caregivers about the various ways to obtain naloxone as permitted by individual state naloxone dispensing and prescribing requirements or guidelines (e.g., by prescription, directly from a pharmacist, or as part of a community-based program). Educate patients and caregivers on how to recognize respiratory depression and emphasize the importance of calling 911 or getting emergency medical help, even if naloxone is administered [seePRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers]. If naloxone is prescribed, educate patients and caregivers on how to treat with naloxone [see Patient Access to Naloxone for Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose, WARNINGS, Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse, Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants; PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers, Overdosage]. Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines and Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets with benzodiazepines and/or other CNS depressants, including alcohol (e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids). Because of similar pharmacological properties, it is reasonable to expect similar risk with the concomitant use of other CNS depressant drugs with opioid analgesics [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions]. If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [seeWARNINGS, Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression; Dosage and Administration, Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose]. Screen patients for risk of substance use disorders, including opioid abuse and misuse, and warn them of the risk for overdose and death associated with the use of additional CNS depressants including alcohol and illicit drugs [seePRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions, Information for Patients/Caregivers]. Consider using other tools to improve patient, household, and community safety, such as patient- prescriber agreements that reinforce patient- prescriber responsibilities. Because of the risk of life-threatening respiratory depression and death: • Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated for all children younger than 12 years of age (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). • Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated for post- operative management in pediatric patients younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). (see WARNINGS) • As with adults, when prescribing codeine for adolescents, healthcare providers should choose the lowest effective dose for the shortest period of time and inform patients and caregivers about these risks and the signs of morphine overdose (OVERDOSAGE). Even at labeled dosage regimens, individuals who are ultra-rapid metabolizers may have life-threatening or fatal respiratory depression or experience signs of overdose (such as extreme sleepiness, confusion, or shallow breathing) [seeOVERDOSAGE]. Evaluate patients receiving acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and any CYP3A4 inhibitor or inducer for signs and symptoms that may reflect opioid toxicity and opioid withdrawal when acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are used in conjunction with inhibitors and inducers of CYP3A4 [see WARNINGS, Drug Interactions]. evaluate for signs of opioid withdrawal (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions). After stopping use of a CYP2D6 inhibitor, consider reducing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage and evaluate the patient for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression or sedation [see Drug Interactions (7)]. [See PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions]. If a patient is suspected to be experiencing OIH, carefully consider appropriately decreasing the dose of the current opioid analgesic, or opioid rotation (safety switching the patient to a different opioid moiety) [see Dosage and Administration; Warnings]. Elderly, Cachectic, or Debilitated Patients Life-threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly, cachectic, or debilitated patients because they may have altered pharmacokinetics, including clearance, compared to younger, healthier patients [see WARNINGS; Respiratory Depression]. Regularly evaluate patients, particularly when initiating and titrating acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and when acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration [see WARNINGS; Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression]. There is increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs (e.g., phenothiazines or general anesthetics) [see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions]. Do not prescribe acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets for patients with acetaminophen allergy [seePRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers]. Rapid tapering of Acetaminophen and Codeine Phosphate Tablets in a patient physically dependent on opioids may lead to a withdrawal syndrome and return of pain [see Dosage and Administration, Drug Abuse and Dependence]. In these patients, mixed agonist/antagonist and partial agonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms [see Drug Interactions].
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated for: · All children younger than 12 years of age (see WARNINGS ) · Post-operative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy (see WARNINGS ). Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated in patients with: · Significant respiratory depression (see WARNINGS ). · Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment (see WARNINGS ). · Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days (see WARNINGS ). · Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus (see WARNINGS ). · Hypersensitivity to codeine, acetaminophen, or any of the ingredients (e.g., anaphylaxis) (see WARNINGS ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated for: • All children younger than 12 years of age (see WARNINGS ). • Post-operative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy ( see WARNINGS ) . Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated in patients with: • Significant respiratory depression [ see WARNINGS ]. • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [ see WARNINGS ] . • Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days [ see WARNINGS ] . • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [ see WARNINGS ] . • Hypersensitivity to codeine, acetaminophen, or any of the formulation excipients (e.g., anaphylaxis) [ see WARNINGS ] . CONTRAINDICATIONS Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated for: All children younger than 12 years of age ( see WARNINGS ). Postoperative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy ( see WARNINGS ). Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated in patients with: significant respiratory depression ( see WARNINGS ). acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment ( see WARNINGS ). concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days ( see WARNINGS ). known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus ( see WARNINGS ). hypersensitivity to codeine, acetaminophen, or any of the formulation excipients (e.g., anaphylaxis) ( see WARNINGS ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated for: • All children younger than 12 years of age (see WARNINGS ) • Post-operative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy (see WARNINGS ). Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated in patients with: • Significant respiratory depression (see WARNINGS ). • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment (see WARNINGS ). • Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days (see WARNINGS ). • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus (see WARNINGS ). • Hypersensitivity to codeine, acetaminophen, or any of the ingredients (e.g., anaphylaxis) (see WARNINGS ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated for: • All children younger than 12 years of age ( see WARNINGS ). • Postoperative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy ( see WARNINGS ). Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated in patients with: • significant respiratory depression ( see WARNINGS ). • acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment ( see WARNINGS ). • concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days ( see WARNINGS ). • known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus ( see WARNINGS ). • hypersensitivity to codeine, acetaminophen, or any of the formulation excipients (e.g., anaphylaxis) ( see WARNINGS ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated for: All children younger than 12 years of age (see WARNINGS ). Post-operative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy (see WARNINGS ). Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression (see WARNINGS ). Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment (see WARNINGS ). Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days (see WARNINGS ). Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus (see WARNINGS ). Hypersensitivity to codeine, acetaminophen, or any of the ingredients (e.g., anaphylaxis) (see WARNINGS ). Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see WARNINGS ]. Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see WARNINGS ]. concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days [see WARNINGS ]. known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see WARNINGS ]. Hypersensitivity to codeine, acetaminophen, or any of the formulation excipients (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see WARNINGS ].
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Anticoagulants Chronic oral acetaminophen use at a dose of 4000 mg/day has been shown to cause an increase in international normalized ratio (INR) in some patients who have been stabilized on sodium warfarin as an anticoagulant. As no studies have been performed evaluating the short term use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in patients on oral anticoagulants, more frequent assessment of INR may be appropriate in such circumstances. CYP2D6 Inhibitors Codeine is metabolized by CYP2D6 to form morphine. The concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., paroxetine, fluoxetine, bupropion, quinidine) can increase the plasma concentration of codeine, but can decrease the plasma concentration of active metabolite morphine, which could result in reduced analgesic efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets is achieved (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). After stopping a CYP2D6 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the codeine plasma concentration will decrease but the active metabolite morphine plasma concentration will increase, which could increase or prolong adverse reactions and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). If concomitant use with a CYP2D6 inhibitor is necessary, or if a CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued after concomitant use, consider dosage adjustment of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and monitor patients closely at frequent intervals. If concomitant use with CYP2D6 inhibitors is necessary, follow the patient for reduced efficacy or signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal and consider increasing the dosage of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets as needed. After stopping use of a CYP2D6 inhibitor, consider reducing the dosage of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression or sedation. CYP3A4 Inhibitors The concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations , with subsequently greater metabolism by CYP2D6, resulting in greater morphine levels, which could increase or prolong adverse reactions and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets is achieved (see WARNINGS ). After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, it may result in lower codeine levels, greater norcodeine levels, and less metabolism via CYP2D6 with resultant lower morphine levels (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ), resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to codeine. If concomitant use of CYP3A4 inhibitor is necessary, consider dosage reduction of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. CYP3A4 Inducers The concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin) can result in lower codeine levels, greater norcodeine levels, and less metabolism via CYP2D6 with resultant lower morphine levels (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ), resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence (see WARNINGS ). After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, codeine plasma concentrations may increase, with subsequently greater metabolism by cytochrome CYP2D6, resulting in greater morphine levels (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ), which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. If concomitant use of a CYP3A4 inducer is necessary, follow the patient for reduced efficacy and signs of opioid withdrawal and consider increasing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage as needed. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider a acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics and other opioids, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Follow patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose (see WARNINGS ). Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Examples of these drugs include, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (used to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) (see PRECAUTIONS; Information for Patients/Caregivers ). If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets immediately if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The concomitant use of opioids and MAOIs, such as phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid, may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity. Advise patients taking acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets not to use MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. If urgent use of an opioid is necessary, use test doses and frequent titration of small doses of other opioids (such as oxycodone, hydrocodone, oxymorphone, hydrocodone, or buprenorphine) to treat pain while closely monitoring blood pressure and signs and symptoms of CNS and respiratory depression. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics The concomitant use of opioids with other opioid analgesics, such as butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, may reduce the analgesic effect of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Advise patient to avoid concomitant use of these drugs. Muscle Relaxants Acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. If concomitant use is warranted, monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose (see WARNINGS ). Diuretics Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. If concomitant use is warranted, monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Anticholinergic Drugs The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. If concomitant use is warranted, monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Drug Interactions CYP2D6 Inhibitors Codeine is metabolized by CYP2D6 to form morphine. If concomitant use with a CYP2D6 inhibitor is necessary, or if a CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued after concomitant use, consider dosage adjustment of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and evaluate patients closely at frequent intervals. If concomitant use with CYP2D6 inhibitors is necessary, assess the patient for reduced efficacy or signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal and consider increasing the dosage of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets as needed. After stopping use of a CYP2D6 inhibitor, consider reducing the dosage of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and evaluate the patient at frequent intervals for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression or sedation. ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors(e.g., ritonavir), may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations , with subsequently greater metabolism by CYP2D6, resulting in greater morphine levels, which could increase or prolong adverse reactions and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets is achieved (see WARNINGS ). Evaluate patients at frequent intervals for respiratory depression and sedation. Evaluate for signs of opioid withdrawal. CYP3A4 Inducers The concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin) can result in lower codeine levels, greater norcodeine levels, and less metabolism via CYP2D6 with resultant lower morphine levels (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ),resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence (see WARNINGS ). If concomitant use of a CYP3A4 inducer is necessary, evaluate the patient for reduced efficacy and signs of opioid withdrawal and consider increasing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage as needed. Assess for respiratory depression and Sedation. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider a acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dose reduction and evaluate patients at frequent intervals for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction, educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation).If concomitant use is warranted, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent (see WARNINGS ) Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, gabapentinoids (gabapentin or pregabalin), other opioids, alcohol. Examples of these drugs include, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (used to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) (see PRECAUTIONS ; Information for Patients /Caregivers ). If concomitant use is warranted, frequently evaluate the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The concomitant use of opioids and MAOIs, such as phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid, maymanifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity. Muscle Relaxants Codeine may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. If concomitant use is warranted, because respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected, decrease the dosage of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent (see WARNINGS ). Examples: cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone Diuretics Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of anti diuretic hormone. If concomitant use is warranted, evaluate patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. If concomitant use is warranted, evaluate patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets are used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. The concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., paroxetine, fluoxetine, bupropion, quinidine) can increase the plasma concentration of codeine, but can decrease the plasma concentration of active metabolite morphine, which could result in reduced analgesic efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets is achieved ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). After stopping a CYP2D6 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the codeine plasma concentration will decrease but the active metabolite morphine plasma concentration will increase, which could increase or prolong adverse reactions and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). If concomitant use with CYP2D6 inhibitors is necessary, assess the patient for reduced efficacy or signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal and consider increasing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets as needed. After stopping use of a CYP2D6 inhibitor, consider reducing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and evaluate the patient for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression or sedation. CYP3A4 Inhibitors The concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), and protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations, with subsequently greater metabolism by cytochrome CYP2D6, resulting in greater morphine levels, which could increase or prolong adverse reactions and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets is achieved ( see WARNINGS ). After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, it may result in lower codeine levels, greater norcodeine levels, and less metabolism via CYP2D6 with resultant lower morphine levels ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ), resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to codeine. Assess for signs of opioid withdrawal. CYP3A4 Inducers The concomitant use of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin) can result in lower codeine levels, greater norcodeine levels, and less metabolism via 2D6 with resultant lower morphine levels ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ), resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence ( see WARNINGS ). After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, codeine plasma concentrations may increase, with subsequently greater metabolism by cytochrome CYP2D6, resulting in greater morphine levels ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ), which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage reduction and evaluate patients at frequent intervals for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, gabapentinoids (gabapentin or pregabalin), and other opioids, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction, educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent ( see WARNINGS ). Examples of these drugs include, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), and monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (used to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) ( see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients/Caregivers ). Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent ( see WARNINGS ). Examples: Cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone.

=== BENAZEPRIL HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Benazepril hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including the class to which this drug principally belongs. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mm Hg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in Black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. It may be used alone or in combination with thiazide diuretics. Benazepril hydrochloride is an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are a combination capsule of amlodipine, a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker (DHP CCB) and benazepril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the treatment of hypertension in patients not adequately controlled on monotherapy with either agent. (1) 1.1 Hypertension Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the treatment of hypertension in patients not adequately controlled on monotherapy with either agent. () Benazepril hydrochloride tablets are an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsule, is a combination capsule of amlodipine, a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker (DHP CCB) and benazepril, an angiotensin converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsule, is indicated for the treatment of hypertension in patients not adequately controlled on monotherapy with either agent ( 1 ). 1.1 Hypertension Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the treatment of hypertension in patients not adequately controlled on monotherapy with either agent. ( 1 ) 1.1 Hypertension Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the treatment of hypertension in patients not adequately controlled on monotherapy with either agent.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Adult Patients: Initiate with 10 mg once daily (or 5 mg if patient is on diuretic). Titrate to 40 mg daily based on blood pressure response. ( 2.1 ) • Pediatric patients age 6 years and above with glomerular filtration rate (GFR) >30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 : Initiate with 0.2 mg/kg once daily. Maximum dose is 0.6 mg/kg once daily. • Renal Impairment: Initiate with 5 mg once daily in patients with GFR <30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 (serum creatinine >3 mg/dL) ( 2 .2) 2.1 Recommended Dosage ADULTS The recommended initial dose for patients not receiving a diuretic is 10 mg once a day. The usual maintenance dosage range is 20 to 40 mg per day administered as a single dose or in two equally divided doses. A dose of 80 mg gives an increased response, but experience with this dose is limited. The divided regimen was more effective in controlling trough (pre-dosing) blood pressure than the same dose given as a once-daily regimen. Use with diuretics in adults The recommended starting dose of benazepril hydrochloride tablets in a patient on a diuretic is 5 mg once daily. If blood pressure is not controlled with benazepril hydrochloride alone, a low dose of diuretic may be added. PEDIATRIC PATIENTS 6 YEARS OF AGE AND OLDER The recommended starting dose for pediatric patients is 0.2 mg/kg once per day. Titrate as needed to 0.6 mg/kg once per day. Doses above 0.6 mg/kg (or in excess of 40 mg daily) have not been studied in pediatric patients. Benazepril hydrochloride tablets are not recommended in pediatric patients less than 6 years of age or in pediatric patients with GFR less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Use in Specific Populations ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. )]. 2.2 Dose Adjustment for Renal Impairment For adults with a GFR < 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 (serum creatinine > 3 mg/dL), the recommended initial dose is 5 mg benazepril hydrochloride tablets once daily. Dosage may be titrated upward until blood pressure is controlled or to a maximum total daily dose of 40 mg. Benazepril hydrochloride tablets can also worsen renal function [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. 2.3 Preparation of Suspension (for 150 mL of a 2 mg/mL Suspension) Add 75 mL of Ora-Plus®* oral suspending vehicle to an amber polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottle containing fifteen benazepril hydrochloride 20 mg tablets, and shake for at least two minutes. Allow the suspension to stand for a minimum of 1 hour. After the standing time, shake the suspension for a minimum of one additional minute. Add 75 mL of Ora-Sweet®* oral syrup vehicle to the bottle and shake the suspension to disperse the ingredients. The suspension should be refrigerated at 2°to8°C (36°to46°F) and can be stored for up to 30 days in the PET bottle with a child-resistant screw-cap closure. Shake the suspension before each use. *Ora-Plus® and Ora-Sweet® are registered trademarks of Paddock Laboratories, Inc. Ora Plus® contains carrageenan, citric acid, methylparaben, microcrystalline cellulose, carboxymethylcellulose sodium, potassium sorbate, simethicone, sodium phosphate monobasic, xanthan gum, and water. Ora-Sweet® contains citric acid, berry citrus flavorant, glycerin, methylparaben, potassium sorbate, sodium phosphate monobasic, sorbitol, sucrose, and water. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usual starting dose is 2.5 mg/10 mg. ( 2.1 ) May be used as add-on therapy for patients not adequately controlled with either a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker or an ACE inhibitor ( 2.2 ) Patients who experience edema with amlodipine may be switched to amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules containing a lower dose of amlodipine. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 General Considerations The recommended initial dose is amlodipine 2.5 mg and benazepril 10 mg orally once-daily. Begin therapy with amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules only after a patient has either (a) failed to achieve the desired antihypertensive effect with amlodipine or benazepril monotherapy, or (b) demonstrated inability to achieve adequate antihypertensive effect with amlodipine therapy without developing edema. The antihypertensive effect of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules is largely attained within 2 weeks. If blood pressure remains uncontrolled, the dose may be titrated up to amlodipine 10 mg and benazepril 40 mg once-daily. The dosing should be individualized and adjusted according to the patient’s clinical response. In clinical trials of amlodipine and benazepril combination therapy using amlodipine doses of 2.5 to 10 mg and benazepril doses of 10 to 40 mg, the antihypertensive effects increased with increasing dose of amlodipine in all patient groups, and the effects increased with increasing dose of benazepril in nonblack groups. 2.2 Replacement Therapy Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules may be substituted for the titrated components. Benazepril hydrochloride tablets are not recommended in pediatric patients less than 6 years of age or in pediatric patients with GFR less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Use in Specific Populations ()]. 2.3 Preparation of Suspension (for 150 mL of a 2 mg/mL Suspension) Add 75 mL of Ora-Plus ® * oral suspending vehicle to an amber polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottle containing fifteen benazepril hydrochloride 20 mg tablets, and shake for at least two minutes. Add 75 mL of Ora-Sweet ® * oral syrup vehicle to the bottle and shake the suspension to disperse the ingredients. The suspension should be refrigerated at 2° to 8°C (36° to 46°F) and can be stored for up to 30 days in the PET bottle with a child-resistant screw-cap closure. *Ora-Plus ® and Ora-Sweet ® are registered trademarks of Paddock Laboratories, Inc. Ora Plus ® contains carrageenan, citric acid, methylparaben, microcrystalline cellulose, carboxymethylcellulose sodium, potassium sorbate, simethicone, sodium phosphate monobasic, xanthan gum, and water. Ora-Sweet ® contains citric acid, berry citrus flavorant, glycerin, methylparaben, potassium sorbate, sodium phosphate monobasic, sorbitol, sucrose, and water. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult Patients: Initiate with 10 mg once daily (or 5 mg if patient is on diuretic). ( 2.1 ) Pediatric patients age 6 years and above with glomerular filtration rate (GFR) >30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 : Initiate with 0.2 mg/kg once daily. Renal Impairment: Initiate with 5 mg once daily in patients with GFR <30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 (serum creatinine >3 mg/dL) ( 2 .2) 2.1 Recommended Dosage ADULTS The recommended initial dose for patients not receiving a diuretic is 10 mg once a day. Benazepril hydrochloride tablets are not recommended in pediatric patients less than 6 years of age or in pediatric patients with GFR less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.3 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult Patients: Initiate with 10 mg once daily (or 5 mg if patients is on diuretic). ( 2.1 ) Pediatric patients age 6 years and above with glomerular filtration rate (GFR) > 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 : Initiate with 0.2 mg/kg once daily. Renal Impairment: Initiate with 5 mg once daily in patients with GFR < 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 (serum creatinine > 3 mg/dL) ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage ADULTS The recommended initial dose for patients not receiving a diuretic is 10 mg once a day. If blood pressure is not controlled with benazepril hydrochloride tablets alone, a low dose of diuretic may be added. Benazepril hydrochloride tablets are not recommended in pediatric patients less than 6 years of age or in pediatric patients with GFR less than 30 mL/min/1.73m 2 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.3) ]. 2.2 Dose Adjustment for Renal Impairment For adults with a GFR < 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 (serum creatinine > 3 mg/dL), the recommended initial dose is 5 mg benazepril hydrochloride tablet once daily. Benazepril hydrochloride tablets can also worsen renal function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usual starting dose is 2.5/10 mg. ( 2.1 ) May be used as add-on therapy for patients not adequately controlled with either a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker or an ACE inhibitor. ( 2.2 ) Patients who experience edema with amlodipine may be switched to amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules, containing a lower dose of amlodipine. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 General Considerations The recommended initial dose of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsule is 1 capsule of amlodipine 2.5 mg/benazepril 10 mg orally once-daily. The antihypertensive effect of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsule is largely attained within 2 weeks. If blood pressure remains uncontrolled, the dose may be titrated up to amlodipine 10 mg/benazepril 40 mg once-daily. The dosing should be individualized and adjusted according to the patient's clinical response. In clinical trials of amlodipine/benazepril combination therapy using amlodipine doses of 2.5 to 10 mg and benazepril doses of 10 to 40 mg, the antihypertensive effects increased with increasing dose of amlodipine in all patient groups, and the effects increased with increasing dose of benazepril in nonblack groups. (2.1) May be used as add-on therapy for patients not adequately controlled with either a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker or an ACE inhibitor. (2.2) Patients who experience edema with amlodipine may be switched to amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules containing a lower dose of amlodipine. (2.1) 2.1 General Considerations The recommended initial dose of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules is 1 capsule of amlodipine 2.5 mg/benazepril 10 mg orally once-daily. In clinical trials of amlodipine/benazepril combination therapy using amlodipine doses of 2.5 mg to 10 mg and benazepril doses of 10 mg to 40 mg, the antihypertensive effects increased with increasing dose of amlodipine in all patient groups, and the effects increased with increasing dose of benazepril in nonblack groups.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Benazepril hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients: • who are hypersensitive to benazepril or to any other ACE inhibitor • with a history of angioedema with or without previous ACE inhibitor treatment Benazepril hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor (e.g., sacubitril). Do not administer benazepril hydrochloride tablets within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril/valsartan, a neprilysin inhibitor [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Do not coadminister aliskiren with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors; including benazepril hydrochloride tablets in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 )] . • Angioedema or history of hereditary or idiopathic angioedema ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity ( 4 ) • Co-administration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not coadminister aliskiren with angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, including amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules in patients with diabetes. Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in patients with a history of angioedema, with or without previous ACE inhibitor treatment, or patients who are hypersensitive to benazepril, to any other ACE inhibitor, to amlodipine, or to any of the excipients of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules. Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor (e.g., sacubitril). Do not administer amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules within 36 hours of switching to or from a neprilysin inhibitor, e.g., sacubitril/valsartan [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Do not coadminister aliskiren with ACE inhibitors, including amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules, in patients with diabetes. (4) Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in patients with a history of angioedema or patients who are hypersensitive to benazepril or to amlodipine. (4) Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor (e.g., sacubitril). Do not administer amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules within 36 hours of switching to or from a neprilysin inhibitor, e.g., sacubitril/valsartan. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Benazepril hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients: who are hypersensitive to benazepril or to any other ACE inhibitor with a history of angioedema with or without previous ACE inhibitor treatment Benazepril hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor (e.g., sacubitril). Angioedema or history of hereditary or idiopathic angioedema ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity ( 4 ) Co-administration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes ( 4 ) Do not administer benazepril hydrochloride tablets within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril/valsartan, a neprilysin inhibitor [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Do not coadminister aliskiren with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors; including benazepril hydrochloride tablets in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ] . Angioedema or history of hereditary or idiopathic angioedema ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity ( 4 ) Coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not coadminister aliskiren with ACE inhibitors, including amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride, in patients with diabetes. ( 4 ) Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with a history of angioedema or patients who are hypersensitive to benazepril or to amlodipine. ( 4 ) Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride is contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor (e.g., sacubitril). ( 5.1 ) Do not coadminister aliskiren with angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), ACE inhibitors, including amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride in patients with diabetes. Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with a history of angioedema, with or without previous ACE inhibitor treatment, or patients who are hypersensitive to benazepril, to any other ACE inhibitor, to amlodipine, or to any of the excipients of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules. Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride is contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor (e.g., sacubitril). Do not administer amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules within 36 hours of switching to or from a neprilysin inhibitor, e.g., sacubitril/valsartan [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not coadminister aliskiren with angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), ACE inhibitors, including amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride in patients with diabetes. Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with a history of angioedema, with or without previous ACE inhibitor treatment, or patients who are hypersensitive to benazepril, to any other ACE inhibitor, to amlodipine, or to any of the excipients of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride. Do not administer amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride within 36 hours of switching to or from a neprilysin inhibitor, e.g., sacubitril/valsartan [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Do not coadminister aliskiren with ACE inhibitors, including amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride in patients with diabetes. (4) Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with a history of angioedema or patients who are hypersensitive to benazepril or to amlodipine. (4) Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride is contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor (e.g.,sacubitril). Do not administer amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride within 36 hours of switching to or from a neprilysin inhibitor, e.g., sacubitril/valsartan. ( 5.1 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Diuretics: Excessive drop in blood pressure ( 7.1 ) • Antidiabetics: Increased risk of hypoglycaemia ( 7.2 ) • NSAIDS: Increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive efficacy ( 7.3 ) • Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension and hyperkalemia ( 7.4 ) • Lithium: Symptoms of lithium toxicity ( 7.6 ) • Neprilysin Inhibitor: Increased risk of angioedema ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. ) • Gold: Nitritoid reactions ( 7.8 ) 7.1 Diuretics Hypotension Patients on diuretics, especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted, may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with benazepril hydrochloride. The possibility of hypotensive effects with benazepril hydrochloride can be minimized by either discontinuing or decreasing the dose of diuretic prior to initiation of treatment with benazepril hydrochloride [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )]. Hyperkalemia Potassium-sparing diuretics (spironolactone, amiloride, triamterene, and others) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia. Therefore, if concomitant use of such agents is indicated, monitor the patient’s serum potassium frequently. Benazepril hydrochloride attenuates potassium loss caused by thiazide-type diuretics. 7.2 Antidiabetics Concomitant administration of benazepril hydrochloride and antidiabetic medicines (insulins, oral hypoglycemic agents) may increase the risk of hypoglycemia. 7.3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including benazepril, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving benazepril and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors, including benazepril, may be attenuated by NSAIDs. 7.4 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual Blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on benazepril hydrochloride and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with benazepril hydrochloride in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with benazepril hydrochloride in patients with renal impairment (GFR < 60 ml/min). 7.5 Mammalian Target of Rapamycin (mTOR) Inhibitors Patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitor and mTOR inhibitor (e.g., temsirolimus, sirolimus, everolimus) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema. Monitor for signs of angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . 7.6 Lithium Lithium toxicity has been reported in patients receiving lithium concomitantly with benazepril hydrochloride. Lithium toxicity was usually reversible upon discontinuation of lithium or benazepril hydrochloride. Monitor serum lithium levels during concurrent use. 7.7 Neprilysin Inhibitor Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions]. 7.8 Gold Nitritoid reactions (symptoms include facial flushing, nausea, vomiting and hypotension) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold (sodium aurothiomalate) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Potassium supplements/potassium-sparing diuretics: hyperkalemia ( 7.1 ) Lithium: Increased serum lithium levels; toxicity symptoms ( 7.1 ) Injectable gold: facial flushing, nausea, vomiting, hypotension ( 7.1 ) Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): Risk of renal dysfunction, loss of antihypertensive effect (7.1) Do not exceed doses greater than 20 mg daily of simvastatin (7.1) mTOR inhibitors: increased risk of angioedema ( 7.1 ) Dual inhibition of the RAS: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia (7.1) Neprilysin inhibitors: increased risk of angioedema ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Drug/Drug Interactions Amlodipine Simvastatin : Coadministration of simvastatin with amlodipine increases the systemic exposure of simvastatin. Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amlodipine to 20 mg daily. CYP3A4 Inhibitors : Coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors (moderate and strong) results in increased systemic exposure to amlodipine and may require dose reduction. Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema when amlodipine is coadministered with CYP3A4 inhibitors to determine the need for dose adjustment. CYP3A4 Inducers : No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A4 inducers on amlodipine. Blood pressure should be monitored when amlodipine is coadministered with CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. rifampicin, St. John’s Wort). Benazepril Potassium Supplements and Potassium-Sparing Diuretics: Benazepril can attenuate potassium loss caused by thiazide diuretics. Potassium-sparing diuretics (spironolactone, amiloride, triamterene, and others) or potassium supplements can increase the risk of hyperkalemia. If concomitant use of such agents is indicated, the patient’s serum potassium should be monitored frequently. Lithium: Increased serum lithium levels and symptoms of lithium toxicity have been reported in patients receiving ACE inhibitors during therapy with lithium. When coadministering amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride and lithium, frequent monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended. Gold: Nitritoid reactions (symptoms include facial flushing, nausea, vomiting and hypotension) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold (sodium aurothiomalate) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy. Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including benazepril, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Antidiabetic Agents: In rare cases, diabetic patients receiving an ACE inhibitor (including benazepril) concomitantly with insulin or oral antidiabetics may develop hypoglycemia. Such patients should therefore be advised about the possibility of hypoglycemic reactions and should be monitored accordingly. Mammalian Target of Rapamycin (mTOR) Inhibitors: The risk of angioedema may be increased in patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitors and mTOR inhibitors (e.g., temsirolimus, sirolimus, everolimus). Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS): Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride and other agents that block the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride in patients with renal impairment [glomerular filtration rate (GFR) < 60 mL/min]. Neprilysin Inhibitor: Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Diuretics: Excessive drop in blood pressure ( 7.1 ) • Antidiabetics: Increased risk of hypoglycaemia ( 7.2 ) • NSAIDS: Increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive efficacy ( 7.3 ) • Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension and hyperkalemia ( 7.4 ) • Lithium: Symptoms of lithium toxicity ( 7.6 ) • Neprilysin Inhibitor: Increased risk of angioedema () • Gold: Nitritoid reactions ( 7.8 ) 7.1 Diuretics Hypotension Patients on diuretics, especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted, may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with benazepril hydrochloride. Mammalian Target of Rapamycin (mTOR) Inhibitors : The risk of angioedema may be increased in patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitors and mTOR inhibitors (e.g., temsirolimus, sirolimus, everolimus). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Diuretics: Excessive drop in blood pressure ( 7.1 ) Antidiabetics: Increased risk of hypoglycaemia ( 7.2 ) NSAIDS: Increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive efficacy ( 7.3 ) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension and hyperkalemia ( 7.4 ) Lithium: Symptoms of lithium toxicity ( 7.6 ) Neprilysin Inhibitor: Increased risk of angioedema ( 7.7 ) Gold: Nitritoid reactions ( 7.8 ) 7.1 Diuretics Hypotension Patients on diuretics, especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted, may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with benazepril hydrochloride. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Diuretics: Excessive drop in blood pressure ( 7.1 ) • Antidiabetics: Increased risk of hypoglycaemia ( 7.2 ) • NSAIDS: Increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive efficacy ( 7.3 ) • Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension and hyperkalemia ( 7.4 ) • Lithium: Symptoms of lithium toxicity ( 7.6 ) • Neprilysin Inhibitor: Increased risk of angioedema ( 7.7 ) • Gold: Nitritoid reactions ( 7.8 ) 7.1 Diuretics Hypotension Patients on diuretics, especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted, may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with benazepril hydrochloride. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Diuretics: Excessive drop in blood pressure ( 7.1 ) Antidiabetics: Increased risk of hypoglycemia ( 7.2 ) NSAIDS: Increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive efficacy ( 7.3 ) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension and hyperkalemia ( 7.4 ) Lithium: Symptoms of lithium toxicity ( 7.6 ) Neprilysin Inhibitor: Increased risk of angioedema ( 7.7 ) Gold: Nitritoid reactions ( 7.8 ) 7.1 Diuretics Hypotension Patients on diuretics, especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted, may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with benazepril. The possibility of hypotensive effects with benazepril can be minimized by either discontinuing or decreasing the dose of diuretic prior to initiation of treatment with benazepril [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ]. Benazepril attenuates potassium loss caused by thiazide-type diuretics. 7.2 Antidiabetics Concomitant administration of benazepril and antidiabetic medicines (insulins, oral hypoglycemic agents) may increase the risk of hypoglycemia. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on benazepril and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with benazepril in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with benazepril in patients with renal impairment (GFR < 60 mL/min). Monitor for signs of angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 7.6 Lithium Lithium toxicity has been reported in patients receiving lithium concomitantly with benazepril. Lithium toxicity was usually reversible upon discontinuation of lithium or benazepril. 7.7 Neprilysin Inhibitor Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Potassium supplements/potassium-sparing diuretics: hyperkalemia. ( 7.1 ) Lithium: Increased serum lithium levels; toxicity symptoms. ( 7.1 ) Injectable gold: facial flushing, nausea, vomiting, hypotension. ( 7.1 ) Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): Risk of renal dysfunction, loss of antihypertensive effect. ( 7.1 ) Do not exceed doses greater than 20 mg daily of simvastatin. ( 7.1 ) mTOR inhibitors: increased risk of angioedema. ( 7.1 ) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS): Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia. ( 7.1 ) Neprilysin inhibitors: increased risk of angioedema. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Drug/Drug Interactions Amlodipine Simvastatin: Coadministration of simvastatin with amlodipine increases the systemic exposure of simvastatin. CYP3A4 Inhibitors: Coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors (moderate and strong) results in increased systemic exposure to amlodipine and may require dose reduction. CYP3A4 Inducers: No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A4 inducers on amlodipine. John's Wort). If concomitant use of such agents is indicated, the patient's serum potassium should be monitored frequently. When coadministering amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules and lithium, frequent monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended. Avoid use of aliskiren with amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride in patients with renal impairment [glomerular filtration rate (GFR) ˂ 60 mL/min]. Neprilysin Inhibitor: Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Potassium supplements/potassium-sparing diuretics: hyperkalemia (7.1) Lithium: Increased serum lithium levels; toxicity symptoms (7.1) Injectable gold: facial flushing, nausea, vomiting, hypotension (7.1) Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): Risk of renal dysfunction, loss of antihypertensive effect (7.1) Do not exceed doses greater than 20 mg daily of simvastatin (7.1) mTOR inhibitors: increased risk of angioedema (7.1) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS): Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia (7.1) Neprilysin inhibitors: increased risk of angioedema (7.1) 7.1 Drug/Drug Interactions Amlodipine Simvastatin: Coadministration of simvastatin with amlodipine increases the systemic exposure of simvastatin. Blood pressure should be monitored when amlodipine is co-administered with CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including benazepril, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Do not co-administer aliskiren with amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride in patients with diabetes. Neprilysin Inhibitor : Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] .

=== CARBAMIDE PEROXIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Earwax removal aid Purposes Oral debriding agent Oral wound cleanser Softens ear wax. Ear wax removal drops Earwax removal aid
Indications: Uses for occasional use as an aid to soften, loosen, and remove excessive earwax Uses temporary use in cleansing: canker sores minor wounds or gum inflammation resulting from minor dental procedures, dentures, orthodontic appliances, accidental injury, or other irritations of the mouth and gums aids in the removal of phlegm, mucus, or other secretions associated with occasional sore mouth Uses For occasional use as an aid to soften, loosen and remove excessive ear wax Ear Wax Removal Drops Directions Step 1 Ear Wax Removal Drops Directions: FOR USE IN THE EAR ONLY. Adults and children over 12 years of age: tilt head sideways and place 5 to 10 drops into ear. Tip of applicator should not enter ear canal. Keep drops in ear for several minutes by keeping head tilted or placing enclosed ear plugs in ear. Use twice daily for upto 4 days if needed or as directed by a doctor. Any wax remaining after treatment may be removed by gently flushing the ear with NeilMed ClearCanal rinsing system with special ear rinse adapter. Children under 12 years of age: consult a doctor. For occasional use as an aid to soften, loosen, and remove excessive earwax.
Dosage: Directions FOR USE IN THE EAR ONLY Adults and children over 12 years of age: Tilt head sideways and place 5 to 10 drops into ear Tip of applicator should not enter ear canal Keep drops in ear for several minutes by keeping head tilted or placing cotton in the ear Use twice daily for up to 4 days if needed, or as directed by a doctor Any wax remaining after treatment may be removed by gently flushing the ear with warm water, using a soft rubber bulb ear syringe Children under 12 years: consult a doctor Directions replace tip on bottle when not in use Adults and children 2 years and older: use up to 4 times daily after meals and at bedtime or as directed by a dentist or doctor For direct application do not dilute apply several drops directly from the bottle onto affected area spit out after 2 to 3 minutes As a mouthwash (oral rinse) place 10 to 20 drops onto tongue mix with saliva swish around in the mouth over the affected area for at least 1 minute and spit out Children under 12 years : should be supervised in the use of this product Children under 2 years : consult a dentist or doctor Directions FOR USE IN THE EAR ONLY Adults and children over 12 years of age: Tilt head sideways and places 5 to 10 drops into ear Tip of applicator should not enter ear canal Keep drops in ear for several minutes by keeping head tilted or placing cotton in the ear Use twice daily for up to 4 days if needed, or as directed by a doctor Any wax remaining after treatment may be removed by gently flushing the ear with warm water, using a soft rubber bulb ear syringe Children under 12 years: consult a doctor Directions FOR USE IN THE EAR ONLY. Adults and children over 12 years of age: tilt head sideways place 5 to 10 drops into ear canal. tip of applicator should not enter ear canal. keep drops in ear for several minutes by keeping head tilted or placing cotton in the ear. Use twice daily for up to 4 days if needed, or as directed by a doctor. Any wax remaining after treatment may be removed by gently flushing the ear with warm water, using a soft rubber bulb ear syringe. Children under 12 years of age: consult a doctor. Place 5 to 10 drops of 6.5% carbamide peroxide solution into e FOR IN EAR USE ONLY. Adults and children over 12 years of age : tilt head sideways and place 5 to 10 drops into ear. Directions FOR USE IN THE EAR ONLY Adults and children over 12 years of age: Tilt head sideways and place 5 to 10 drops into ear Tip of applicator should not enter ear canal Keep drops in ear for several minutes by keeping head tilted or placing cotton in the ear Use twice daily for up to 4 days if needed, or as directed by a doctor Any wax remaining after treatment may be removed by gently flushing the ear with warm water, using the Deluxe Ear Washer Children Under 12 years: consult a doctor
Warnings: Warnings For use in the ear only Ask a doctor before use if you have ear drainage or discharge ear pain irritation, or rash in the ear dizziness an injury or perforation (hole) of the ear drum recently had ear surgery When using this product avoid contact with the eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if you need to use for more than 4 days excessive earwax remains after use of this product Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings Do not use this product for more than 7 days unless directed by a dentist or doctor. When using this product do not swallow avoid contact with eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if: swelling, rash or fever develops irritation, pain, or redness persists or worsens sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days Keep out of the reach of children. If more than used for rinsing is swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings For use in the ear only Ask a doctor before use if you have ear drainage or discharge irritation or rash in the ear dizziness an injury or perforation (hole) of the ear drum recently had ear surgery When using this product avoid contact with the eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if you need to use for more than 4 days excessive earwax remains after use of this product Keep out of reach of children. Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have ear drainage or discharge ear pain irritation or rash in the ear dizziness an injury or perforation (hole) of the eardrum recently had ear surgery When using this product avoid contact with the eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if you need to use for more than four days excessive ear wax remains after use this product Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings: Do not use: If you have had an allergic reaction to carbamide peroxide. If you have ear drainage or discharge, ear pain, irritation or rash in the ear, or are dizzy; consult a doctor If you have an injury or perforation (hole) of the eardrum or after ear surgery, unless directed by a doctor For more than four consecutive days When using this product: void contact with the eyes Stop use ad ask a doctor if excessive ear wax remains after use of this product for four consecutive days. Do not use if you have ear drainage or discharge, ear pain, irritation or rash in the ear, or are dizzy; consult a doctor if you have an injury or perforation (hole) of the eardrum or after ear surgery unless directed by a doctor for more than 4 days; if excessive earwax remains after use of this product, consult a doctor When using this product avoid contact with the eyes. If accidental contact with the eyes occurs, flush your eyes with water and consult a doctor. If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.

=== DOCUSATE SODIUM AND SENNOSIDES ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Active ingredients (in each tablet) Purpose Docusate sodium 50 mg Stool softner Sennosides 8.6 mg Laxative Purpose Stool softener Stimulant laxative Purposes Stool softener Laxative Purpose Stool softener Laxative
Indications: Uses For relief of occasional constipation (irregularity). This product generally produces bowel movement in 6 to 12 hours. Uses relieves occasional constipation (irregularity) generally produces bowel movement in 6 to12 hours Uses relieves occasional constipation (irregularity) generally produces a bowel movement in 6-12 hours Uses relieves occasional constipation (irregularity) generally produces bowel movement in 6-12 hours Uses relieves occasional constipation (irregularity) generally causes bowel movement in 6-12 hours Uses relieves occasional constipation (irregularity) this product generally produces bowel movement in 6 to 12 hours
Dosage: Directions take preferably at bedtime or as directed by a doctor age starting dose maximum dose adults and children 12 years of age and older 2 tablets once a day 4 tablets twice a day children 6 to under 12 years 1 tablet once a day 2 tablets twice a day children 2 to under 6 years 1/2 tablet once a day 1 tablet twice a day children under 2 years ask a doctor ask a doctor Directions Take only by mouth. Doses may be taken as a single daily dose, preferably in the evening, or in divided doses. adults and children 12 years and older take 2-4 tablets daily children 6 to under 12 years of age take 1-2 tablets daily children 2 to under 6 years of age take up to 1 tablet daily children under 2 ask a doctor Directions take preferably at bedtime or as directed by a doctor age starting dose maximum dose adults and children 12 years and older 2 tablets once a day 4 tablets twice a day children 6 to under 12 years 1 tablet once a day 2 tablets twice a day children 2 to under 6 years 1/2 tablet once a day 1 tablet twice a day children under 2 years ask a doctor ask a doctor Doses may be taken as a single daily dose, preferably in the evening, or in divided doses adults and children 12 years and over take 2-4 tablets daily children 6 to under 12 years of age take 1- 2 tablets daily children 2 to under 6 years of age take up to 1 tablet daily children under 12 years of age ask a doctor Directions take preferably at bedtime or as directed by a doctor. Age Starting Dosage Maximum Dosage adults and children 12 years of age and older 2 softgels once a day 4 softgels twice a day children 6 to 12 years 1 softgel once a day 2 softgels twice a day children under 6 years of age ask a doctor ask a doctor adults and children 12 years and over take 2-4 tablets daily childrens 6 to under 12 years of age take1-2 tablets daily children 2 to under 6 years of age take up to 1 tablet daily children under 2 ask a doctor Age Starting Dosage Maximum Dosage adults and children 12 years of age and older 2 softgels once a day 4 softgels twice a day children 6 to 12 years of age 1 softgel once a day 2 softgels twice a day children under 6 years of age ask a doctor ask a doctor adults and children 12 years and over take 2-4 tablets daily children 6 to under 12 years of age take 1-2 tablets daily children 2 to under 6 years of age take up to 1 tablet daily children under 2 ask a doctor Doses may be taken as a single daily dose, preferably in the evening, or in divided doses adults and children 12 years and over take 2-4 tablets daily children under 12 years ask a doctor
Warnings: Warnings Do not use if you are presently taking mineral oil, unless directed by a doctor. laxative products should not be used for a period longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor. Ask a doctor before use if you have stomach pain nausea vomitting noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over 2 weeks Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative. These may indicate a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Do not use laxative products for longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor if you are presently taking mineral oil, unless told to do so by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have stomach pain nausea vomiting noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over a period of 2 weeks Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or fail to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Warnings Do not use laxative products for longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor if you are presently taking mineral oil, unless told to do so by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have stomach pain nausea vomiting noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over 2 weeks Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or fail to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative. Warnings Do not use if you are now taking mineral oil, unless directed by a doctor laxative products for longer than 1 week, unless directed by a doctor Warnings Do not use laxative products for longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor if you are now taking mineral oil, unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have stomach pain nausea vomiting noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over 2 weeks Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or fail to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative. Warnings Do not use if you are now taking mineral oil, unless told to do so by a doctor laxative products for longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have stomach pain nausea vomiting noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over 2 weeks Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or fail to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative. Warnings Do not use laxative products for longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor if you are now taking mineral oil, unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have stomach pain nausea vomiting noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts over a period of 2 weeks Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or fail to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative.

=== ERYTHROMYCIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Erythromycin Topical Solution USP, 2% is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris. INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of erythromycin tablets, USP and other antibacterial drugs, erythromycin tablets, USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. Erythromycin tablets, USP are indicated in the treatment of infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms in the diseases listed below: Upper respiratory tract infections of mild to moderate degree caused by Streptococcus pyogenes ; Streptococcus pneumoniae ; Haemophilus influenzae (when used concomitantly with adequate doses of sulfonamides, since many strains of H. influenzae are not susceptible to the erythromycin concentrations ordinarily achieved). (See appropriate sulfonamide labeling for prescribing information). Lower respiratory tract infections of mild to moderate severity caused by Streptococcus pyogenes or Streptococcus pneumoniae . Listeriosis caused by Listeria monocytogenes . Respiratory tract infections due to Mycoplasma pneumoniae . Skin and skin structure infections of mild to moderate severity caused by Streptococcus pyogenes or Staphylococcus aureus (resistant staphylococci may emerge during treatment). Pertussis (whooping cough) caused by Bordetella pertussis . Erythromycin is effective in eliminating the organism from the nasopharynx of infected individuals, rendering them noninfectious. Some clinical studies suggest that erythromycin may be helpful in the prophylaxis of pertussis in exposed susceptible individuals. Diphtheria: Infections due to Corynebacterium diphtheriae , as an adjunct to antitoxin, to prevent establishment of carriers and to eradicate the organism in carriers. Erythrasma: In the treatment of infections due to Corynebacterium minutissimum . Intestinal amebiasis caused by Entamoeba histolytica (oral erythromycins only). Extraenteric amebiasis requires treatment with other agents. Acute pelvic inflammatory disease caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae : Erythrocin ® Lactobionate-I.V. (erythromycin lactobionate for injection, USP) followed by erythromycin base orally, as an alternative drug in treatment of acute pelvic inflammatory disease caused by N. gonorrhoeae in female patients with a history of sensitivity to penicillin. Patients should have a serologic test for syphilis before receiving erythromycin as treatment of gonorrhea and a follow-up serologic test for syphilis after 3 months. Erythromycins are indicated for treatment of the following infections caused by Chlamydia trachomatis : conjunctivitis of the newborn, pneumonia of infancy and urogenital infections during pregnancy. When tetracyclines are contraindicated or not tolerated, erythromycin is indicated for the treatment of uncomplicated urethral, endocervical or rectal infections in adults due to Chlamydia trachomatis . 3 When tetracyclines are contraindicated or not tolerated, erythromycin is indicated for the treatment of nongonococcal urethritis caused by Ureaplasma urealyticum . 3 Primary syphilis caused by Treponema pallidum . Erythromycin (oral forms only) is an alternative choice of treatment for primary syphilis in patients allergic to the penicillins. In treatment of primary syphilis, spinal fluid should be examined before treatment and as part of the follow-up after therapy. Legionnaires' Disease caused by Legionella pneumophila . Although no controlled clinical efficacy studies have been conducted, in vitro and limited preliminary clinical data suggest that erythromycin may be effective in treating Legionnaires' Disease. Prophylaxis Prevention of Initial Attacks of Rheumatic Fever Penicillin is considered by the American Heart Association to be the drug of choice in the prevention of initial attacks of rheumatic fever (treatment of Streptococcus pyogenes infections of the upper respiratory tract e.g., tonsillitis or pharyngitis). 1 Erythromycin is indicated for the treatment of penicillin-allergic patients. The therapeutic dose should be administered for ten days. Prevention of Recurrent Attacks of Rheumatic Fever Penicillin or sulfonamides are considered by the American Heart Association to be the drugs of choice in the prevention of recurrent attacks of rheumatic fever. In patients who are allergic to penicillin and sulfonamides, oral erythromycin is recommended by the American Heart Association in the long-term prophylaxis of streptococcal pharyngitis (for the prevention of recurrent attacks of rheumatic fever). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Ery-Ped and other antibacterial drugs, Ery-Ped should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Ery-Ped is indicated in the treatment of infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated organisms in the diseases listed below: Upper respiratory tract infections of mild to moderate degree caused by Streptococcus pyogenes, Streptococcus pneumoniae, or Haemophilus influenzae (when used concomitantly with adequate doses of sulfonamides, since many strains of H. (See appropriate sulfonamide labeling for prescribing information.) Lower-respiratory tract infections of mild to moderate severity caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae or Streptococcus pyogenes . Erythromycin is effective in eliminating the organism from the nasopharynx of infected individuals rendering them noninfectious. Diphtheria Infections due to Corynebacterium diphtheriae , as an adjunct to antitoxin, to prevent establishment of carriers and to eradicate the organism in carriers. Erythrasma In the treatment of infections due to Corynebacterium minutissimum . Acute Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae As an alternative drug in treatment of acute pelvic inflammatory disease caused by N. Syphilis Caused by Treponema pallidum Erythromycin is an alternate choice of treatment for primary syphilis in penicillin-allergic patients. In primary syphilis, spinal fluid examinations should be done before treatment and as part of follow-up after therapy. Erythromycins are indicated for the treatment of the following infections caused by Chlamydia trachomatis Conjunctivitis of the newborn, pneumonia of infancy, and urogenital infections during pregnancy. When tetracyclines are contraindicated or not tolerated, erythromycin is indicated for the treatment of uncomplicated urethral, endocervical, or rectal infections in adults due to Chlamydia trachomatis . When tetracyclines are contraindicated or not tolerated, erythromycin is indicated for the treatment of nongonococcal urethritis caused by Ureaplasma urealyticum . Prophylaxis Prevention of Initial Attacks of Rheumatic Fever Penicillin is considered by the American Heart Association to be the drug of choice in the prevention of initial attacks of rheumatic fever (treatment of Streptococcus pyogenes infections of the upper respiratory tract, e.g., tonsillitis or pharyngitis). Erythromycin is indicated for the treatment of penicillin-allergic patients. 1 The therapeutic dose should be administered for 10 days. INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the treatment of superficial ocular infections involving the conjunctiva and/or cornea caused by organisms susceptible to erythromycin. For prophylaxis of ophthalmia neonatorum due to N. gonorrhoeae or C. trachomatis . The effectiveness of erythromycin in the prevention of ophthalmia caused by penicillinase-producing N. gonorrhoeae is not established. For infants born to mothers with clinically apparent gonorrhea, intravenous or intramuscular injections of aqueous crystalline penicillin G should be given: a single dose of 50,000 units for term infants or 20,000 units for infants of low birth weight. Topical prophylaxis alone is inadequate for these infants. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ery 2% Pads are indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris. INDICATIONS AND USAGE: For the treatment of superficial ocular infections involving the conjunctiva and/or cornea caused by organisms susceptible to erythromycin. The effectiveness of erythromycin in the prevention of ophthalmia caused by penicillinase-producing N.gonorrhoeae is not established. For infants born to mothers with clinically apparent gonorrhea, intravenous or intramuscular injections of aqueous crystalline penicillin G should be given; a single dose of 50,000 units for term infants or 20,000 units for infants of low birth weight. gonorrheae is not established. INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of erythromycin delayed-release tablets and other antibacterial drugs, erythromycin delayed-release tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Erythromycin delayed-release tablets are indicated in the treatment of infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms in the diseases listed below: Upper respiratory tract infections of mild to moderate degree caused by Streptococcus pyogenes; Streptococcus pneumoniae; Haemophilus influenzae (when used concomitantly with adequate doses of sulfonamides, since many strains of H. (See appropriate sulfonamide labeling for prescribing information.) Lower respiratory tract infections of mild to moderate severity caused by Streptococcus pyogenes or Streptococcus pneumoniae . Acute pelvic inflammatory disease caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae : Erythrocin TM Lactobionate-I.V. Erythromycins are indicated for treatment of the following infections caused by Chlamydia trachomatis : conjunctivitis of the newborn, pneumonia of infancy, and urogenital infections during pregnancy. Primary syphilis caused by Treponema pallidum. Prophylaxis Prevention of Initial Attacks of Rheumatic Fever Penicillin is considered by the American Heart Association to be the drug of choice in the prevention of initial attacks of rheumatic fever (treatment of Streptococcus pyogenes infections of the upper respiratory tract e.g., tonsillitis, or pharyngitis). Erythromycin tablet, USP are indicated in the treatment of infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms in the diseases listed below: Upper respiratory tract infections of mild to moderate degree caused by Streptococcus pyogenes ; Streptococcus pneumoniae ; Haemophilus influenzae (when used concomitantly with adequate doses of sulfonamides, since many strains of H. Acute pelvic inflammatory disease caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae : Erythrocin TM Lactobionate I.V. (erythromycin lactobionate for injection, USP) followed by erythromycin base orally, as an alternative drug treatment of acute pelvic inflammatory disease caused by N. Legionnaires’ Disease caused by Legionella pneumophila . Although no controlled clinical efficacy studies have been conducted, in vitro and limited preliminary clinical data suggest that erythromycin may be effective in treating Legionnaires’ Disease. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Erythromycin Topical Gel USP, 2% is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Erythromycin Topical Solution USP, 2% should be applied over the affected areas twice a day (morning and evening) after the skin is thoroughly washed with warm water and soap and patted dry. Acne lesions on the face, neck, shoulders, chest, and back may be treated in this manner. This medication should be applied with applicator top. If fingertips are used, wash hands after application. Drying and peeling may be controlled by reducing the frequency of applications. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION In most patients, erythromycin tablets are well absorbed and may be dosed orally without regard to meals. However, optimal blood levels are obtained when erythromycin tablets are given in the fasting state (at least 1/2 hour and preferably 2 hours before meals). Adults The usual dosage of Erythromycin Tablets is one 250 mg tablet four times daily in equally spaced doses or one 500 mg tablet every 12 hours. Dosage may be increased up to 4 g per day according to the severity of the infection. However, twice-a-day dosing is not recommended when doses larger than 1 g daily are administered. Children Age, weight and severity of the infection are important factors in determining the proper dosage. The usual dosage is 30 mg/kg/day to 50 mg/kg/day, in equally divided doses. For more severe infections this dosage may be doubled but should not exceed 4 g per day. In the treatment of streptococcal infections of the upper respiratory tract (e.g., tonsillitis or pharyngitis), the therapeutic dosage of erythromycin should be administered for at least ten days. The American Heart Association suggests a dosage of 250 mg of erythromycin orally, twice a day in long-term prophylaxis of streptococcal upper respiratory tract infections for the prevention of recurring attacks of rheumatic fever in patients allergic to penicillin and sulfonamides. 1 Conjunctivitis of the Newborn Caused by Chlamydia trachomatis Oral erythromycin suspension 50 mg/kg/day in 4 divided doses for at least 2 weeks. 3 Pneumonia of Infancy Caused by Chlamydia trachomatis Although the optimal duration of therapy has not been established, the recommended therapy is oral erythromycin suspension 50 mg/kg/day in 4 divided doses for at least 3 weeks. Urogenital Infections During Pregnancy Due to Chlamydia trachomatis Although the optimal dose and duration of therapy have not been established, the suggested treatment is 500 mg of erythromycin by mouth four times a day on an empty stomach for at least 7 days. For women who cannot tolerate this regimen, a decreased dose of one erythromycin 500 mg tablet orally every 12 hours or 250 mg by mouth four times a day should be used for at least 14 days. 3 For adults with uncomplicated urethral, endocervical or rectal infections caused by Chlamydia trachomatis, when tetracycline is contraindicated or not tolerated 500 mg of erythromycin by mouth four times a day for at least 7 days. 3 For patients with nongonococcal urethritis caused by Ureaplasma urealyticum when tetracycline is contraindicated or not tolerated 500 mg of erythromycin by mouth four times a day for at least seven days. 3 Primary syphilis 30 to 40 g given in divided doses over a period of 10 days to 15 days. Acute Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Caused by N. gonorrhoeae 500 mg Erythrocin ® Lactobionate-I.V. (erythromycin lactobionate for injection, USP) every 6 hours for 3 days, followed by 500 mg of erythromycin base orally every 12 hours for 7 days. Intestinal Amebiasis Adults 500 mg every 12 hours or 250 mg every 6 hours for 10 days to 14 days. Children 30 mg/kg/day to 50 mg/kg/day in divided doses for 10 days to 14 days. Pertussis Although optimal dosage and duration have not been established, doses of erythromycin utilized in reported clinical studies were 40 mg/kg/day to 50 mg/kg/day, given in divided doses for 5 days to 14 days. Legionnaires' Disease Although optimal dosage has not been established, doses utilized in reported clinical data were 1g to 4g daily in divided doses. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Ery-Ped (erythromycin ethylsuccinate) oral suspensions may be administered without regard to meals. Children Age, weight, and severity of the infection are important factors in determining the proper dosage. In mild to moderate infections, the usual dosage of erythromycin ethylsuccinate for children is 30 to 50 mg/kg/day in equally divided doses every 6 hours. For more severe infections this dosage may be doubled. If twice-a-day dosage is desired, one-half of the total daily dose may be given every 12 hours. Doses may also be given three times daily by administering one-third of the total daily dose every 8 hours. The following dosage schedule is suggested for mild to moderate infections: Body Weight Total Daily Dose Under 10 lbs 30-50 mg/kg/day 15-25 mg/lb/day 10 to 15 lbs 200 mg 16 to 25 lbs 400 mg 26 to 50 lbs 800 mg 51 to 100 lbs 1200 mg over 100 lbs 1600 mg Adults 400 mg erythromycin ethylsuccinate every 6 hours is the usual dose. For adult dosage calculation, use a ratio of 400 mg of erythromycin activity as the ethylsuccinate to 250 mg of erythromycin activity as the stearate, base or estolate. In the treatment of streptococcal infections, a therapeutic dosage of erythromycin ethylsuccinate should be administered for at least 10 days. In continuous prophylaxis against recurrences of streptococcal infections in persons with a history of rheumatic heart disease, the usual dosage is 400 mg twice a day. For treatment of urethritis due to C. trachomatis or U. urealyticum 800 mg three times a day for 7 days. For treatment of primary syphilis Adults 48 to 64 g given in divided doses over a period of 10 to 15 days For intestinal amebiasis Adults 400 mg four times daily for 10 to 14 days. Children 30 to 50 mg/kg/day in divided doses for 10 to 14 days. For use in pertussis Although optimal dosage and duration have not been established, doses of erythromycin utilized in reported clinical studies were 40 to 50 mg/kg/day, given in divided doses for 5 to 14 days. For treatment of Legionnaires' Disease Although optimal doses have not been established, doses utilized in reported clinical data were 1.6 to 4 g daily in divided doses. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION In the treatment of superficial ocular infections, erythromycin ophthalmic ointment approximately 1 cm in length should be applied directly to the infected eye(s) up to six times daily, depending on the severity of the infection. For prophylaxis of neonatal gonococcal or chlamydial ophthalmia, a ribbon of ointment approximately 1 cm in length should be instilled into each lower conjunctival sac. The ointment should not be flushed from the eye following instillation. A new tube should be used for each infant. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The Ery 2% Pads should be rubbed over the affected area twice a day (morning and evening) after skin is thoroughly washed with warm water and soap and patted dry. Additional pledgets may be used, if needed. Each pledget should be used once and discarded. Wash hands after application. Close jar tightly after each use. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: In the treatment of superficial ocular infections, a ribbon approximately 1 cm in length of Erythromycin Opthalmic Ointment should be applied directly to the infected structure up to 6 times daily, depending on the severity of the infection. For prophylaxis of neonatal gonococcal or chlamydial conjunctivitis, a ribbon of ointment approximately 1 cm in length should be instilled into each lower conjunctival sac. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: In the treatment of superficial ocular infections, a ribbon approximately 1 cm in length of Erythromycin Ophthalmic Ointment should be applied directly to the infected structure up to 6 times daily, depending on the severity of the infection. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION In most patients, erythromycin delayed-release tablets, are well absorbed and may be dosed orally without regard to meals. However, optimal blood levels are obtained when erythromycin delayed-release tablets, 250 mg, erythromycin delayed-release tablets, 333 mg and erythromycin delayed-release tablets, 500 mg tablets are given in the fasting state (at least 1/2 hour and preferably 2 hours before meals). Adults The usual dose is 250 mg four times daily in equally spaced doses. The 333 mg tablet is recommended if dosage is desired every 8 hours. If twice-a-day dosage is desired, the recommended dose is 500 mg every 12 hours. The usual dosage is 30 to 50 mg/kg/day, in equally divided doses. For more severe infections, this dose may be doubled but should not exceed 4 g per day. The American Heart Association suggests a dosage of 250 mg of erythromycin orally, twice a day in long-term prophylaxis of streptococcal upper respiratory tract infections for the prevention of recurring attacks of rheumatic fever in patients allergic to penicillin and sulfonamides.1 Conjunctivitis of the Newborn Caused by Chlamydia trachomatis Oral erythromycin suspension 50 mg/kg/day in 4 divided doses for at least 2 weeks. Urogenital Infections During Pregnancy Due to Chlamydia trachomatis Although the optimal dose and duration of therapy have not been established, the suggested treatment is 500 mg of erythromycin by mouth four times a day or two erythromycin 333 mg tablets orally every 8 hours on an empty stomach for at least 7 days. For women who cannot tolerate this regimen, a decreased dose of one erythromycin 500 mg tablet orally every 12 hours, one 333 mg tablet orally every 8 hours or 250 mg by mouth four times a day should be used for at least 14 days. 3 For adults with uncomplicated urethral, endocervical, or rectal infections caused by Chlamydia trachomatis, when tetracycline is contraindicated or not tolerated 500 mg of erythromycin by mouth four times a day or two 333 mg tablets orally every 8 hours for at least 7 days. 3 For patients with nongonococcal urethritis caused by Ureaplasma urealyticum when tetracycline is contraindicated or not tolerated 500 mg of erythromycin by mouth four times a day or two 333 mg tablets orally every 8 hours for at least seven days. 3 Primary Syphilis 30 to 40 g given in divided doses over a period of 10 to 15 days. Gonorrhoeae 500 mg Erythrocin Lactobionate-I.V. (erythromycin lactobionate for injection, USP) every 6 hours for 3 days, followed by 500 mg of erythromycin base orally every 12 hours, or 333 mg of erythromycin base orally every 8 hours for 7 days. Intestinal Amebiasis Adults 500 mg every 12 hours, 333 mg every 8 hours or 250 mg every 6 hours for 10 to 14 days. Pertussis Although optimal dosage and duration have not been established, doses of erythromycin utilized in reported clinical studies were 40 to 50 mg/kg/day, given in divided doses for 5 to 14 days. Legionnaires' Disease Although optimal dosage has not been established, doses utilized in reported clinical data were 1 to 4 g daily in divided doses. Preoperative Prophylaxis for Elective Colorectal Surgery Listed below is an example of a recommended bowel preparation regimen. A proposed surgery time of 8:00 a.m. has been used. Pre-op Day 3 Minimum residue or clear liquid diet. Bisacodyl, 1 tablet orally at 6:00 p.m. Pre-op Day 2 Minimum residue or clear liquid diet. Magnesium sulfate, 30 mL, 50% solution (15 g) orally at 10:00 a.m., 2:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. Enema at 7:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. Pre-op Day 1 Clear liquid diet. Supplemental (IV) fluids as needed. Magnesium sulfate, 30 mL, 50% solution (15 g) orally at 10:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. Neomycin sulfate (1.0 g) and erythromycin base (two 500 mg tablets, three 333 mg tablets or four 250 mg tablets) orally at 1:00 p.m., 2:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. No enema. Day of Operation Patient evacuates rectum at 6:30 a.m. for scheduled operation at 8:00 a.m. However optimal blood levels are obtained when erythromycin tablets are given in the fasting state (at least ½ hour and preferably 2 hours before meals). However, twice-a-day dosing is not recommended when doses larger than 1g daily are administered. 3 For adults with uncomplicated urethral, endocervical, or rectal infections caused by Chlamyia trachomatis, when tetracycline is contraindicated or not tolerated 500 mg of erythromycin by mouth four times a day for at least 7 days. gonorrhoeae 500 mg Erythrocin TM Lactobionate-I.V. Intestinal Amebiasis Adults 500 mg every 12 hours or 250 mg every 6 hours for 10 to 14 days. Legionnaires’ Disease Although optimal dosage has not been established, doses utilized in reported clinical data were 1 to 4 g daily in divided doses. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Erythromycin Topical Gel USP, 2% should be applied sparingly as a thin film to affected area(s) once or twice a day after the skin is thoroughly cleansed and patted dry. If there has been no improvement after 6 to 8 weeks, or if the condition becomes worse, treatment should be discontinued, and the physician should be reconsulted. Spread the medication lightly rather than rubbing it in. There are no data directly comparing the safety and efficacy of b.i.d. versus q.d. dosing.
Warnings: WARNINGS Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents, including erythromycin, and may range in severity from mild to life-threatening. Therefore, it is important to consider this diagnosis in patients who present with diarrhea subsequent to the administration of antibacterial agents. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon and may permit overgrowth of clostridia. Studies indicate that a toxin produced by Clostridium difficile is one primary cause of “antibiotic-associated colitis”. After the diagnosis of pseudomembranous colitis has been established, therapeutic measures should be initiated. Mild cases of pseudomembranous colitis usually respond to drug discontinuation alone. In moderate to severe cases, consideration should be given to management with fluids and electrolytes, protein supplementation and treatment with an antibacterial drug clinically effective against C. difficile colitis. WARNINGS Hepatotoxicity There have been reports of hepatic dysfunction, including increased liver enzymes and hepatocellular and/or cholestatic hepatitis, with or without jaundice, occurring in patients receiving oral erythromycin products. QT Prolongation Erythromycin has been associated with prolongation of the QT interval and infrequent cases of arrhythmia. Cases of torsades de pointes have been spontaneously reported during postmarketing surveillance in patients receiving erythromycin. Fatalities have been reported. Erythromycin should be avoided in patients with known prolongation of the QT interval, patients with ongoing proarrhythmic conditions such as uncorrected hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia, clinically significant bradycardia and in patients receiving Class IA (quinidine, procainamide) or Class III (dofetilide, amiodarone, sotalol) antiarrhythmic agents. Elderly patients may be more susceptible to drug-associated effects on the QT interval. Syphilis in Pregnancy There have been reports suggesting that erythromycin does not reach the fetus in adequate concentration to prevent congenital syphilis. Infants born to women treated during pregnancy with oral erythromycin for early syphilis should be treated with an appropriate penicillin regimen. Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including erythromycin tablets and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C.difficile . C. difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD. Hypertoxin producing strains of C. difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality, as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use. Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents. If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C. difficile may need to be discontinued. Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibiotic treatment of C. difficile and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. Drug Interactions Serious adverse reactions have been reported in patients taking erythromycin concomitantly with CYP3A4 substrates. These include colchicine toxicity with colchicine; rhabdomyolysis with simvastatin, lovastatin and atorvastatin; and hypotension with calcium channel blockers metabolized by CYP3A4 (e.g., verapamil, amlodipine, diltiazem) (see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ). There have been post-marketing reports of colchicine toxicity with concomitant use of erythromycin and colchicine. This interaction is potentially life-threatening and may occur while using both drugs at their recommended doses (see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ). Rhabdomyolysis with or without renal impairment has been reported in seriously ill patients receiving erythromycin concomitantly with lovastatin. Therefore, patients receiving concomitant lovastatin and erythromycin should be carefully monitored for creatine kinase (CK) and serum transaminase levels. (See package insert for lovastatin). WARNINGS Hepatotoxicity There have been reports of hepatic dysfunction, including increased liver enzymes, and hepatocellular and/or cholestatic hepatitis, with or without jaundice, occurring in patients receiving oral erythromycin products. Erythromycin should be avoided in patients with known prolongation of the QT interval, patients with ongoing proarrhythmic conditions such as uncorrected hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia, clinically significant bradycardia, and in patients receiving Class IA (quinidine, procainamide) or Class III (dofetilide, amiodarone, sotalol) antiarrhythmic agents. Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including Ery-Ped, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C. difficile . difficile, and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. These include colchicine toxicity with colchicine; rhabdomyolysis with simvastatin, lovastatin, and atorvastatin; and hypotension with calcium channel blockers metabolized by CYP3A4 (e.g. verapamil, amlodipine, diltiazem) (see PRECAUTIONS – Drug Interactions ). This interaction is potentially life-threatening, and may occur while using both drugs at their recommended doses (see PRECAUTIONS – Drug Interactions ). (See package insert for lovastatin) Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including erythromycin delayed-release tablets, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. These include colchicine toxicity with colchicine; rhabdomyolysis with simvastatin, lovastatin, and atorvastatin; and hypotension with calcium channel blockers metabolized by CYP3A4 (e.g., verapamil, amlodipine, diltiazem) (see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ). This interaction is potentially life-threatening, and may occur while using both drugs at their recommended doses (see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ). (See package insert for lovastatin.) Clostridium-difficile Associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with the use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including Erythromycin Tablets, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. These include colchicine toxicity with colchicine; rhabdomyolysis with simvastatin, lovastatin, and atorvastatin; and hypotension with calcium channel blockers metabolized by CYP3A4 (e.g., verapamil, amlodipine, diltiazem) (see PRECAUTIONS – Drug Interactions ).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Erythromycin Topical Solution USP, 2% is contraindicated in those individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components. CONTRAINDICATIONS Erythromycin is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to this antibiotic. Erythromycin is contraindicated in patients taking terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, ergotamine or dihydroergotamine. (See PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ). Do not use erythromycin concomitantly with HMG CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) that are extensively metabolized by CYP 3A4 (lovastatin or simvastatin), due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis. Erythromycin is contraindicated in patients taking terfenadine, astemizole, pimozide, or cisapride. (See PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions .) Do not use erythromycin concomitantly with HMG CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) that are extensively metabolized by CYP 3A4 (lovastatin or simvastatin), due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis. CONTRAINDICATIONS This drug is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to erythromycin. CONTRAINDICATIONS Ery 2% Pads are contraindicated in those individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components. CONTRAINDICATIONS: This drug is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to erythromycin. Erythromycin is contraindicated in patients taking terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, pimozide, ergotamine, or dihydroergotamine. (See PRECAUTIONS – Drug Interactions. ) Do not use erythromycin concomitantly with HMG CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) that are extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 (lovastatin or simvastatin), due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis. (See PRECAUTIONS – Drug Interactions ) Do not use erythromycin concomitantly with HMG CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) that are extensively metabolized by CYP 3A4 (lovastatin or simvastatin), due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis. CONTRAINDICATIONS Erythromycin Topical Gel USP, 2% is contraindicated in those individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Serious adverse reactions have been reported in patients taking erythromycin concomitantly with CYP3A4 substrates. These include colchicine toxicity with colchicine; rhabdomyolysis with simvastatin, lovastatin and atorvastatin; and hypotension with calcium channel blockers metabolized by CYP3A4 (e.g., verapamil, amlodipine, diltiazem) (see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ). There have been post-marketing reports of colchicine toxicity with concomitant use of erythromycin and colchicine. This interaction is potentially life-threatening and may occur while using both drugs at their recommended doses (see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ). Rhabdomyolysis with or without renal impairment has been reported in seriously ill patients receiving erythromycin concomitantly with lovastatin. Therefore, patients receiving concomitant lovastatin and erythromycin should be carefully monitored for creatine kinase (CK) and serum transaminase levels. (See package insert for lovastatin). Drug Interactions Theophylline Erythromycin use in patients who are receiving high doses of theophylline may be associated with an increase in serum theophylline levels and potential theophylline toxicity. In case of theophylline toxicity and/or elevated serum theophylline levels, the dose of theophylline should be reduced while the patient is receiving concomitant erythromycin therapy. There have been published reports suggesting that when oral erythromycin is given concurrently with theophylline there is a decrease in erythromycin serum concentrations of approximately 35%. The mechanism by which this interaction occurs is unknown. The decrease in erythromycin concentrations due to co-administration of theophylline could result in subtherapeutic concentrations of erythromycin. Hypotension, bradyarrhythmias and lactic acidosis have been observed in patients receiving concurrent verapamil, belonging to the calcium channel blockers drug class. Concomitant administration of erythromycin and digoxin has been reported to result in elevated digoxin serum levels. There have been reports of increased anticoagulant effects when erythromycin and oral anticoagulants were used concomitantly. Increased anticoagulation effects due to interactions of erythromycin with oral anticoagulants may be more pronounced in the elderly. Erythromycin is a substrate and inhibitor of the 3A isoform subfamily of the cytochrome p450 enzyme system (CYP3A). Coadministration of erythromycin and a drug primarily metabolized by CYP3A may be associated with elevations in drug concentrations that could increase or prolong both the therapeutic and adverse effects of the concomitant drug. Dosage adjustments may be considered and when possible, serum concentrations of drugs primarily metabolized by CYP3A should be monitored closely in patients concurrently receiving erythromycin. The following are examples of some clinically significant CYP3A based drug interactions. Interactions with other drugs metabolized by the CYP3A isoform are also possible. The following CYP3A based drug interactions have been observed with erythromycin products in post-marketing experience: Ergotamine/dihydroergotamine Post-marketing reports indicate that co-administration of erythromycin with ergotamine or dihydroergotamine has been associated with acute ergot toxicity characterized by vasospasm and ischemia of the extremities and other tissues including the central nervous system. Concomitant administration of erythromycin with ergotamine or dihydroergotamine is contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Triazolobenzodiazepines (such as triazolam and alprazolam) and related benzodiazepines Erythromycin has been reported to decrease the clearance of triazolam and midazolam and thus, may increase the pharmacologic effect of these benzodiazepines. HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors Erythromycin has been reported to increase concentrations of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (e.g., lovastatin and simvastatin). Rare reports of rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients taking these drugs concomitantly. Sildenafil (Viagra) Erythromycin has been reported to increase the systemic exposure (AUC) of sildenafil. Reduction of sildenafil dosage should be considered. (See Viagra package insert). There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of erythromycin with cyclosporine, carbamazepine, tacrolimus, alfentanil, disopyramide, rifabutin, quinidine, methyl-prednisolone, cilostazol, vinblastine and bromocriptine. Concomitant administration of erythromycin with cisapride, pimozide, astemizole or terfenadine is contraindicated. (See CONTRAINDICATIONS ). In addition, there have been reports of interactions of erythromycin with drugs not thought to be metabolized by CYP3A, including hexobarbital, phenytoin and valproate. Erythromycin has been reported to significantly alter the metabolism of the nonsedating antihistamines terfenadine and astemizole when taken concomitantly. Rare cases of serious cardiovascular adverse events, including electrocardiographic QT/QT c interval prolongation, cardiac arrest, torsades de pointes and other ventricular arrhythmias, have been observed. In addition, deaths have been reported rarely with concomitant administration of terfenadine and erythromycin. There have been post-marketing reports of drug interactions when erythromycin was co-administered with cisapride, resulting in QT prolongation, cardiac arrhythmias, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation and torsades de pointes, most likely due to the inhibition of hepatic metabolism of cisapride by erythromycin. Fatalities have been reported. Colchicine Colchicine is a substrate for both CYP3A4 and the efflux transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Erythromycin is considered a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A4. A significant increase in colchicine plasma concentration is anticipated when co-administered with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors such as erythromycin. If co-administration of colchicine and erythromycin is necessary, the starting dose of colchicine may need to be reduced and the maximum colchicine dose should be lowered. Patients should be monitored for clinical symptoms of colchicine toxicity (see WARNINGS ). Hypotension, bradyarrhythmias, and lactic acidosis have been observed in patients receiving concurrent verapamil, belonging to the calcium channel blockers drug class. Increased anticoagulation effects due to interactions of erythromycin with various oral anticoagulants may be more pronounced in the elderly. Dosage adjustments may be considered, and when possible, serum concentrations of drugs primarily metabolized by CYP3A should be monitored closely in patients concurrently receiving erythromycin. Triazolobenzodiazepines (such as triazolam and alprazolam) and Related Benzodiazepines Erythromycin has been reported to decrease the clearance of triazolam and midazolam, and thus, may increase the pharmacologic effect of these benzodiazepines. (See Viagra package insert.) There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of erythromycin with cyclosporine, carbamazepine, tacrolimus, alfentanil, disopyramide, rifabutin, quinidine, methylprednisolone, cilostazol, vinblastine, and bromocriptine. Concomitant administration of erythromycin with cisapride, pimozide, astemizole, or terfenadine is contraindicated. (See CONTRAINDICATIONS .) In addition, there have been reports of interactions of erythromycin with drugs not thought to be metabolized by CYP3A, including hexobarbital, phenytoin, and valproate. Rare cases of serious cardiovascular adverse events, including electrocardiographic QT/QT c interval prolongation, cardiac arrest, torsades de pointes, and other ventricular arrhythmias have been observed. (See CONTRAINDICATIONS .) In addition, deaths have been reported rarely with concomitant administration of terfenadine and erythromycin. There have been post-marketing reports of drug interactions when erythromycin was co-administered with cisapride, resulting in QT prolongation, cardiac arrhythmias, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, and torsades de pointes most likely due to the inhibition of hepatic metabolism of cisapride by erythromycin. (See CONTRAINDICATIONS .) Colchicine Colchicine is a substrate for both CYP3A4 and the efflux transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp). If co-administration of colchicine and erythromycin is necessary, the starting dose of colchicine may need to be reduced, and the maximum colchicine dose should be lowered. (See Viagra package insert.) There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of erythromycin with cyclosporine, carbamazepine, tacrolimus, alfentanil, disopyramide, rifabutin, quinidine, methyl-prednisolone, cilostazol, vinblastine, and bromocriptine. (See CONTRAINDICATIONS. ) In addition, there have been reports of interactions of erythromycin with drugs not thought to be metabolized by CYP3A, including hexobarbital, phenytoin, and valproate. Rare cases of serious cardiovascular adverse events, including electrocardiographic QT/QTc interval prolongation, cardiac arrest, torsades de pointes, and other ventricular arrhythmias have been observed. ) In addition, deaths have been reported rarely with concomitant administration of terfenadine and erythromycin. There have been post-marketing reports of drug interactions when erythromycin was co-administered with cisapride, resulting in QT prolongation, cardiac arrhythmias, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, and torsades de pointes, most likely due to the inhibition of hepatic metabolism of cisapride by erythromycin. ) Colchicine Colchicine is a substrate for both CYP3A4 and the efflux transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Patients should be monitored for clinical symptoms of colchicine toxicity (see WARNINGS).

=== MAGNESIUM SULFATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: MEB Gluco-Vitality Patch Active Ingredients Purpose Ferum Metalicum 7X HPUS …………………… Congestion of Blood Magnesia Sulphurica 7X HPUS ……………….. Diabetes Phosphorus 6X HPUS …………………………… Vascular Deases Calcarea Fluorata 6X HPUS …………………… Vessels-lipids Zincum Metallicum 8X HPUS ………………….. Varicose Vein Vanadium Metallicum 12X HPUS……………….. Atheroma of Arteries Sulphur 4X HPUS…………………………………. Varicosities MEB PainGuard Patch Active Ingredient ................................................ Purpose Alumina Silicata 5X HPUS.………………………. Muscle Pain Calcarea Silicata 5X HPUS………………..…….. Joint Pain Calcarea Fluorata 6X HPUS……………………. Joint Pain, Inflammation Ferrum Phosphoricum 7X HPUS.………………. Inflammation, Articular Rheumatism Ferrum Muriaticum 7X HPUS…………………… Rheumatism Pain Natrum Nitricum 5X HPUS……………………… Inflammation Magnesia Muriatica 7X HPUS…………………. Inflammation Maganum Metallicum 12X HPUS……………… Gout, Chronic Arthritis Sulphur 4X HPUS………………………………… Pain, Inflammation Vanadium Metallicum 12X HPUS………………. Gout Zincum Metalicum 8X …………………………….. Cramping, Pain, Sore Active Ingredients Purpose Silicea 4X HPUS ………………………………….. Asthma, immune deficiency Sulphur 4X HPUS………………………………….. Asthma Ferrum Phosphoricum 7X HPUS.………………… Stomach Disease Ferrum Muriaticum 7X HPUS…………………….. Asthma, Stomach Disease Titanium Metallicum 7X……………………………. Rhinitis Natrum Nitricum 5X HPUS……………………….. Stomach Disease Calcarea Fluorata 6X HPUS……………………… Rhinitis Phosphorus 6X HPUS…………………………….. Stomach Disease Magnesia Sulphurica 7X HPUS …………………. Diabetes, Stomach Disease Magnesia Muriatica 7X HPUS…………………. Stomach Disease Zincum Metalicum 8X …………………………….. Stomach Disease Ulcers Sulphur 4X HPUS………………………………….. Tumour Ferrum Phosphoricum 7X HPUS.………………… Inflammation, Ulcers Natrum Nitricum 5X HPUS……………………….. Inflammation Calcarea Fluorata 6X HPUS……………………… Inflammation, Tumor Magnesia Sulphurica 7X HPUS …………………. Internal Disease Magnesia Muriatica 7X HPUS…………………. Inflammation Zincum Metalicum 8X …………………………….. Internal Disease Purpose Muscle Soreness Relief Purpose Saline laxative
Indications: The MEB PainGuard Patch is designed to provide effective pain relief and treat various types of pain, providing fast-acting and long-lasting relief from pain, helping to alleviate discomfort caused by muscle pain, nerve pain, and other common types of pain. This innovative patch targets and treats the underlying inflammation that causes pain to help eliminate the root cause of pain, leading to more effective and sustainable pain relief. The Gluco Vitality Patch assists individuals with diabetes in stabilizing their blood sugar levels while promoting vascular health to provide a comprehensive approach to diabetes care. By promoting vascular health, the GlucoVitaPatch aims to improve circulation and support the prevention and treatment of vascular diseases commonly associated with diabetes. MEB Puri-Mega “Potent mineral concentrate with exceptional health benefits. Offers unparalleled support for overall well-being, including asthma, immune deficiency, rhinitis, diabetes and more.” Usage: Puri-Mega is a potent mineral concentrate enriched with various health benefits. Extracted from beneficial minerals known for their exceptional absorbability in the human body, this health blend offers unparalleled support for overall well-being. The natural healing and preventive properties of Puriton Mineral, a 100% pure mineral extract sourced from nature offer exceptional effectiveness in conditions such as asthma, immune deficiency, stomach disease, rhinitis, and diabetes. MEB Puri-Vega is potent mineral concentrate with exceptional health benefits. Offers unparalleled support for overall well-being, including asthma, immune deficiency, rhinitis, diabetes and more.” Usage: Puri-Vega is a potent mineral concentrate enriched with various health benefits. The natural healing and preventive properties of Puriton Mineral, a 100% pure mineral extract sourced from nature provides excellent effects in conditions related to Inflammation-Related Issues that can lead to many other sickness, Internal Diseases, and Ulcers that can lead to tumors. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection is indicated for: • Prevention of eclampsia in patients with preeclampsia • Treatment of seizures and prevention of recurrent seizures in patients with eclampsia Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection is indicated for ( 1 ): • Prevention of eclampsia in patients with preeclampsia ( 1 ) • Treatment of seizures and prevention of recurrent seizures in patients with eclampsia ( 1 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Elliotts B Solution is indicated as a diluent for the intrathecal administration of methotrexate sodium and cytarabine for the prevention or treatment of meningeal leukemia or lymphocytic lymphoma. Uses prevents cramps and spasms releases muscle tightness relieves muscle soreness Uses for relief of occasional constipation (irregularity) this product generally produces bowel movement in 1/2 to 6 hours Uses relieves occasional constipation (irregularity) generally produces bowel movement in 1/2 to 6 hours
Dosage: MEB Painguard Patch Direction With clean hands, peel off the clear cover attached to the patch. Apply the patch carefully onto the area where you are experiencing pain. Fold the patch using your thumb and index finger, then peel off the protective tape from the top and bottom surfaces. After attaching the patch, press firmly on it with your fingers around 10 times to ensure that the needles penetrate the skin for optimal effectiveness. Leave the patch on for a minimum of 8 hours without removing. If pain relief is achieved even after a minimum of 8 hours with the patch on, you may continue to wear it. If the pain returns after 8 hours, apply a new patch following the same method. MEB Gluco-Vitality Patch Direction Use 2 patch at a time With clean hands, peel off the clear cover attached to the patch. Apply the patches just below the area of your left and right ears. Align the adhesive side of the patch with the backline of your ear. Before applying the patch, measure your blood sugar level. After a minimum of 8 hours with the patch on, measure your blood sugar level again. Take 30ml once daily in the morning on an empty stomach. For effective absorption, do not swallow immediately; hold under the tongue for 2-3 minutes before swallowing. It can also be consumed by mixing 1:1 with water, as needed. Usage as an Additive for Herbal Medicine: Mix 30 ml or 50 ml with medication as an additive when boiling. Removes toxins from the medication. Aids in nanonization, enabling better absorption of medicinal ingredients. Provides concentrated extraction without the need for re-boiling. Preserves the minerals without any loss or change in properties. For oral inflammation: Gargle with Puri-Mega 10 ml for 10 minutes or more, three times a day, to help with oral inflammation caused by weakened immunity. Direction Take 30ml once daily in the morning on an empty stomach. For oral inflammation: Gargle with Puri-Vega 10 ml for 10 minutes or more, three times a day, to help with oral inflammation caused by weakened immunity. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer via intravenous infusion pump ( 2.1 ) • Recommended loading dosage is 4 to 6 grams over 15 minutes followed by a recommended maintenance dosage of 1 to 2 grams every hour; maximum recommended dosage is 30 to 40 grams over 24 hours ( 2.2 ) • Obtain serum magnesium concentrations and assess clinical status to adjust the dose ( 2.2 ) • Administration beyond 5 to 7 days is not recommended ( 2.2 , 5.1 ) • In patients with severe renal impairment and/or urine output less than 0.5 mL/kg/hour, administer a 4 gram loading dose followed by a maintenance dosage of 1 gram every hour; do not exceed the maximum recommended dosage of 20 grams over 48 hours ( 2.3 ) • Do not administer Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection with incompatible drugs through the same intravenous line, specifically with salicylates and alkali carbonates ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection is: • A clear solution. Visually inspect Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Do not administer unless solution is clear and colorless to slightly yellow. • For intravenous use only • Administered via intravenous infusion pump Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection does not require dilution prior to intravenous administration. After removing the overwrap, check for minute leaks by squeezing the container fully. Do not administer Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection if there is a leak or there is greater than 2 mL of water in the overwrap [see Description (11) ]. Do not administer Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection with incompatible drugs through the same intravenous line [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . Do not use Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection in series connections. 2.2 Recommended Dosage • The recommended loading dosage of Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection in patients with eclampsia or preeclampsia is 4 to 6 grams over 15 minutes followed by a recommended maintenance dosage of 1 to 2 grams every hour. • Obtain serum magnesium concentrations and assess clinical status to adjust the dosage. • In patients with eclampsia, consider targeting the maintenance dosage to achieve serum magnesium concentrations of 3 to 6 mg per 100 mL (2.5 to 5 mEq per liter). For patients with recurrent eclampsia, consider giving an additional 2 gram intravenous bolus. • For patients with eclampsia, therapy should continue until seizures cease. • The maximum recommended dosage is 30 to 40 grams of magnesium sulfate over 24 hours. • Administration of Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection beyond 5 to 7 days is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 2.3 Dosage in Patients with Severe Renal Impairment and/or Oliguria • In patients with severe renal impairment and/or a urine output less than 0.5 mL/kg/hour, initiate Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection with a 4 gram loading dose followed by a maintenance dosage of 1 gram every hour. • Titrate the magnesium sulfate maintenance dosage to maintain concentrations in the target range through frequent monitoring of magnesium concentrations and observation for clinical signs of magnesium toxicity (e.g., facial edema, diminished strength of deep tendon reflexes, respiratory depression). A lower maintenance dosage requirement is likely in these patients. • Do not exceed the maximum recommended dosage of 20 grams of Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection over 48 hours. 2.4 Drug Incompatibilities Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection is not compatible with administration of a variety of solutions and forms precipitates of magnesium salts. Before using Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection with another parenteral product, investigate potential incompatibilities. Incompatible products that should not be coadministered include salicylates and alkali carbonates. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION See product labeling for methotrexate sodium and cytarabine. Elliotts B Solution is intended for intrathecal administration only. Elliotts B Solution does not contain antibacterial preservatives and introduction of contaminated solutions into the cerebrospinal fluid may have extremely serious consequences. Therefore, administration of intrathecal solutions should be accomplished as soon as possible after preparation. A sterile filter-needle should be used to withdraw the contents of the ampule. Intrathecal drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Preparation and Administration Precautions Elliotts B Solution is a diluent for the cytotoxic anticancer agents, methotrexate sodium and cytarabine. Care should be exercised in the handling and preparation of infusion solutions with these products. (See product labeling for methotrexate sodium and cytarabine.) Directions shake well roll a thin layer to each impacted muscle group and allow to air dry repeat use as needed Directions do not exceed recommended daily dosage drink a full glass (8 ounces) of liquid with each dose may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses dissolve the dose in 8 ounces of water. Lemon juice may be added to improve the taste. adults and children 12 years and over - 2 to 6 level teaspoons (10 to 30 grams) daily children 6 to under 12 years - 1 to 2 level teaspoons (5 to 10 grams) daily children under 6 years - consult a doctor Directions do not exceed more than 2 doses per day; if necessary repeat dosage in 4 hours age dose adults and children 12 years and older 2-4 level teaspoons dissolved in a full glass (8oz) of water children 6 to 11 years 1-2 level teaspoons dissolved in a full glass (8oz) of water Not recommended for children under 6 years of age.
Warnings: Do not Use *If the needles inside the patch do not cause a tingling sensation, do not use it and replace it with a new patch. *If headaches, dizziness, or any discomfort persist for more than 5 minutes, discontinue use. Consult a physician if: *Symptoms persist for more than 7 days or worsen. When using this product: *Due to its sensitivity to moisture, do not store the patch in the refrigerator, and it should be used immediately after opening. Keep out of reach of Children Do not Use Individuals with specific sensitivities to ingredients or allergies should check the list of ingredients before consumption. If your symptoms do not improve and worsen even after 7 days, discontinue use and consult a doctor for further advice. Consult a physician: If pregnant, breastfeeding, or undergoing treatment for any medical condition, please consult a physician before taking it. Individuals with specific sensitivities to ingredients or allergies should check the list of ingredients before consumption. WARNINGS Intrathecal administration of drugs such as methotrexate sodium and cytarabine should be performed by personnel skilled in the technique of lumbar puncture under the supervision of a physician who is experienced in the use of cancer chemotherapeutic agents. The labeling for methotrexate sodium and cytarabine should be consulted. Warnings For external use only. If eye contact occurs, rinse thoroughly with water. When using this product avoid eye contact store between 32°F and 120°F use only as directed not for ingestion Stop use and ask a doctor if unintended effects occur. If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings for this product Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have kidney disease a magnesium restricted diet stomach pain, nausea or vomiting noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that lasts more than 2 weeks Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug. When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use. This may indicate a serious condition. you need to use a laxative for more than 1 week If pregnancy or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection is contraindicated in patients: • with heart block or myocardial damage • in diabetic coma • with myasthenia gravis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] • Heart block or myocardial damage ( 4 ) • Diabetic coma ( 4 ) • Myasthenia gravis ( 4 , 5.6 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS None known.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 1 presents the potential clinical impact of medications that may be commonly administered concomitantly with Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection in the clinical setting. Table 1: Potential Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection For drug incompatibility information [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Clinical Impact: • Potentiation and prolongation of neuromuscular blockade is possible with the concomitant use of magnesium sulfate and neuromuscular blocking agents [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . • The underlying mechanism of this interaction may involve suppression of peripheral neuromuscular function by decreasing acetylcholine release, reduction of endplate sensitivity, and decreased muscle fiber excitability with magnesium sulfate therapy. Intervention: • Monitor respiration and the depth of neuromuscular blockade frequently (e.g., train-of-four monitoring) when a neuromuscular blocking agent is used concomitantly with Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection. • Adjust the dosage of the neuromuscular blocking agent accordingly to maintain the desired level of musculoskeletal activity. The amount of reversal agent(s) required to achieve adequate reversal of the neuromuscular blocking agent(s) may also be increased. Examples: • Depolarizing neuromuscular blockers: succinylcholine • Non-depolarizing neuromuscular blockers: atracurium, cisatracurium, pancuronium, rocuronium, vecuronium Narcotics and/or Propofol Clinical Impact: • Potentiation and prolongation of analgesia and CNS depression is possible with the concomitant use of Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection with narcotics and/or propofol. The potential for magnesium sulfate to affect other CNS depressants is unknown [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . • The underlying mechanism of this interaction may involve antagonism of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) by magnesium sulfate therapy. Intervention: • Monitor the depth of CNS depression frequently using a reliable instrument. • Adjust the narcotic and/or propofol dosage accordingly to maintain the desired level of analgesia and sedation. Examples: • Narcotics and propofol Dihydropyridine Calcium Channel Blockers Clinical Impact: • An exaggerated hypotensive response is possible with the concomitant use of Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection with dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers. The potential for magnesium sulfate to affect other calcium channel blockers (e.g., diltiazem and verapamil) is unknown [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Intervention: • Monitor vital signs (heart rate, blood pressure, respiration) frequently. • Supportive care and/or discontinuation of the calcium channel blocker may be required. Examples: • Amlodipine, clevidipine, felodipine, isradipine, nicardipine, nifedipine, nimodipine, and nisoldipine Drugs that May Induce Magnesium Loss Clinical Impact: • Reduced magnesium concentrations may impact efficacy Intervention: • Monitor magnesium concentrations frequently and adjust the Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection dosage to maintain concentrations in the target range [see Dosage and Administration (2) ] . Examples: • Alcohol, aminoglycosides, amphotericin B, cisplatin, cyclosporine, digitalis, loop diuretics, thiazide diuretics • Neuromuscular blocking agents : Potentiation and prolongation of neuromuscular blockade is possible with the concomitant use of Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection ( 7 ) • Narcotics and/or propofol : Potentiation and prolongation of analgesia and CNS depression is possible with the concomitant use of Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection ( 7 ) • Dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers : An exaggerated hypotensive response is possible with the concomitant use of Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection ( 7 ) • Drugs that may induce magnesium loss with concomitant use of Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection : Alcohol, aminoglycosides, amphotericin B, cisplatin, cyclosporine, digitalis, loop diuretics, and thiazide diuretics ( 7 )

=== SUNSCREEN ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Active ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 3.0% Sunscreen Homosalate 4.0% Sunscreen Octisalate 4.5% Sunscreen Octocrylene 2.6% Sunscreen Active ingredients Purpose Titanium Dioxide (4.9%) Sunscreen Zinc Oxide (21.6%) Sunscreen Uses Helps prevent sunbrun an dphoto damage caused by UVA/UVB exposure. If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see directions) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun. Active ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 3% Sunscreen Homosalate 15% Sunscreen Octisalate 5% Sunscreen Octocrylene 3% Sunscreen Oxybenzone 6% Sunscreen Purpose Sunscreen Balmere Mineral Sunscreen Moisturizer + Primer purpose Colorescience Total Protection No Show Mineral Sunscreen purpose
Indications: Uses helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses Helps prevent sunbrun an dphoto damage caused by UVA/UVB exposure. If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see directions) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun. Uses helps to prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ) decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Balmere Mineral Sunscreen Moisturizer + Primer Indications & usage Colorescience Total Protection No Show Mineral Sunscreen Indications & usage Uses Helps prevent sunburn.
Dosage: Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures. Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in sun, especially from 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses children under 6 months: ask a doctor Directions Shake bottle well before use. • For Sunscreen Use: • apply generously 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply: • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: • limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. • wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before exposure to the sun. Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating. Reapply at least every 2 hours. Children under 6 months of age, ask physician. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats and sunglasses. wear long sleeve sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses. children under 6 months: ask a doctor Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply: • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours children under 6 months of age: ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures. Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad-spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: • limit time in the sun, especially from 10am-2pm • wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses. Balmere Mineral Sunscreen Moisturizer + Primer Dosage and Administration Colorescience Total Protection No Show Mineral Sunscreen Dosage and Administration Directions ■ spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure ■ apply to all skin exposed to the sun ■ hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply ■ do not spray directly into face. Spray on hands then apply to face. ■ do not apply in windy conditions ■ use in a well-ventilated area and avoid inhalation ■ reapply: ■ after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ■ immediately after towel drying ■ at least every 2 hours ■ Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: ■ limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m.–2 p.m. ■ wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats and sunglasses ■ children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor Directions Adults and children over 6 months of age: ■ apply liberally15 minutes before sun exposure ■ use a water-resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating ■ reapply at least every 2 hours ■ Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: • limit time in the sun, especially from10 a.m.–2 p.m. • wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hatsand sunglasses ■ children under 6 months: Ask a doctor DIRECTIONS For sunscreen use: apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure children under 6 months of age: ask a doctor reapply - after 40 minutes of swimming or sweating - immediately after towel drying - at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures: Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m.-2 p.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. If product is swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Do not use ​• on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Warnings For external use only. Do not use on damaged or broken skin. Stope use and ask doctor if rash occurs. When using the product keep out of eyes; rinse with water to remove. If swallowed, get medical help or contact poison control immediately. Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun. Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. Warnings For external use only Balmere Mineral Sunscreen Moisturizer + Primer Warning Label Colorescience Total Protection No Show Mineral Sunscreen Warning Label Do not use on broken skin. When using this product avoid contact with eyes. If contact occurs, rinse thoroughly with water. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs.

=== TEMAZEPAM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Temazepam capsules are indicated for the short-term treatment of insomnia (generally 7 to 10 days). For patients with short-term insomnia, instructions in the prescription should indicate that temazepam capsules should be used for short periods of time (7 to 10 days). The clinical trials performed in support of efficacy were 2 weeks in duration with the final formal assessment of sleep latency performed at the end of treatment. INDICATIONS & USAGE Temazepam Capsules, USP are indicated for the short-term treatment of insomnia (generally 7 to 10 days). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Temazepam is indicated for the short-term treatment of insomnia (generally 7 - 10 days). For patients with short-term insomnia, instructions in the prescription should indicate that temazepam should be used for short periods of time (7 - 10 days).
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION While the recommended usual adult dose is 15 mg before retiring, 7.5 mg may be sufficient for some patients, and others may need 30 mg. In transient insomnia, a 7.5 mg dose may be sufficient to improve sleep latency. In elderly or debilitated patients, it is recommended that therapy be initiated with 7.5 mg until individual responses are determined. Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Temazepam To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue temazepam or reduce the dosage. If a patient develops withdrawal reactions, consider pausing the taper or increasing the dosage to the previous tapered dosage level. Subsequently decrease the dosage more slowly ( see WARNINGS , Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE : Dependence ). DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION While the recommended usual adult dose is 15 mg before retiring, 7.5 mg may be sufficient for some patients, and others may need 30 mg. Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Temazepam Capsules To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue temazepam or reduce the dosage. Subsequently decrease the dosage more slowly (see WARNINGS, Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence). Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Temazepam Capsules To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue temazepam capsules or reduce the dosage. Subsequently decrease the dosage more slowly ( see WARNINGS, Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions and DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE: Dependence ).
Warnings: WARNINGS Risks from Concomitant Use with Opioids Concomitant use of benzodiazepines, including temazepam, and opioids may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. Because of these risks, reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Observational studies have demonstrated that concomitant use of opioid analgesics and benzodiazepines increases the risk of drug-related mortality compared to use of opioids alone. If a decision is made to prescribe temazepam concomitantly with opioids, prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use, and follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. In patients already receiving an opioid analgesic, prescribe a lower initial dose of temazepam than indicated in the absence of an opioid and titrate based on clinical response. If an opioid is initiated in a patient already taking temazepam, prescribe a lower initial dose of the opioid and titrate based upon clinical response. Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when temazepam is used with opioids. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use with the opioid have been determined ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Abuse, Misuse, and Addiction The use of benzodiazepines, including temazepam, exposes users to the risks of abuse, misuse, and addiction, which can lead to overdose or death. Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines often (but not always) involve the use of doses greater than the maximum recommended dosage and commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes, including respiratory depression, overdose, or death ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE , Abuse ). Before prescribing temazepam and throughout treatment, assess each patient’s risk for abuse, misuse, and addiction (e.g., using a standardized screening tool). Use of temazepam, particularly in patients at elevated risk, necessitates counseling about the risks and proper use of temazepam along with monitoring for signs and symptoms of abuse, misuse, and addiction. Prescribe the lowest effective dosage; avoid or minimize concomitant use of CNS depressants and other substances associated with abuse, misuse, and addiction (e.g., opioid analgesics, stimulants); and advise patients on the proper disposal of unused drug. If a substance use disorder is suspected, evaluate the patient and institute (or refer them for) early treatment, as appropriate. Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue temazepam or reduce the dosage (a patient-specific plan should be used to taper the dose) ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Temazepam ). Patients at an increased risk of withdrawal adverse reactions after benzodiazepine discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction include those who take higher dosages, and those who have had longer durations of use. Acute Withdrawal Reactions The continued use of benzodiazepines, including temazepam, may lead to clinically significant physical dependence. Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of temazepam after continued use, or administration of flumazenil (a benzodiazepine antagonist) may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening (e.g., seizures) ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE , Dependence ) . Protracted Withdrawal Syndrome In some cases, benzodiazepine users have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with withdrawal symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE , Dependence ). Sleep disturbance may be the presenting manifestation of an underlying physical and/or psychiatric disorder. Consequently, a decision to initiate symptomatic treatment of insomnia should only be made after the patient has been carefully evaluated. The failure of insomnia to remit after 7 to 10 days of treatment may indicate the presence of a primary psychiatric and/or medical illness that should be evaluated. Worsening of insomnia may be the consequence of an unrecognized psychiatric or physical disorder as may the emergence of new abnormalities of thinking or behavior. Such abnormalities have also been reported to occur in association with the use of drugs with central nervous system depressant activity, including those of the benzodiazepine class. Because some of the worrisome adverse effects of benzodiazepines, including temazepam, appear to be dose related ( see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ), it is important to use the lowest possible effective dose. Elderly patients are especially at risk. Some of these changes may be characterized by decreased inhibition, e.g., aggressiveness and extroversion that seem out of character, similar to that seen with alcohol. Other kinds of behavioral changes can also occur, for example, bizarre behavior, agitation, hallucinations, and depersonalization. Complex behaviors such as “sleep-driving” (i.e., driving while not fully awake after ingestion of a sedative-hypnotic, with amnesia for the event) have been reported. These events can occur in sedative-hypnotic-naïve as well as in sedative-hypnotic-experienced persons. Although behaviors such as “sleep-driving” may occur with temazepam alone at therapeutic doses, the use of alcohol and other CNS depressants with temazepam appears to increase the risk of such behaviors, as does the use of temazepam at doses exceeding the maximum recommended dose. Due to the risk to the patient and the community, discontinuation of temazepam should be strongly considered for patients who report a “sleep-driving” episode. Other complex behaviors (e.g., preparing and eating food, making phone calls, or having sex) have been reported in patients who are not fully awake after taking a sedative-hypnotic. As with “sleep-driving”, patients usually do not remember these events. Amnesia and other neuro-psychiatric symptoms may occur unpredictably. In primarily depressed patients, worsening of depression, including suicidal thinking has been reported in association with the use of sedative/hypnotics. It can rarely be determined with certainty whether a particular instance of the abnormal behaviors listed above is drug induced, spontaneous in origin, or a result of an underlying psychiatric or physical disorder. Nonetheless, the emergence of any new behavioral sign or symptom of concern requires careful and immediate evaluation. Because temazepam can cause drowsiness and a decreased level of consciousness, patients, particularly the elderly, are at higher risk of falls. Severe Anaphylactic and Anaphylactoid Reactions Rare cases of angioedema involving the tongue, glottis or larynx have been reported in patients after taking the first or subsequent doses of sedative-hypnotics, including temazepam. Some patients have had additional symptoms such as dyspnea, throat closing, or nausea and vomiting that suggest anaphylaxis. Some patients have required medical therapy in the emergency department. If angioedema involves the tongue, glottis or larynx, airway obstruction may occur and be fatal. Patients who develop angioedema after treatment with temazepam should not be rechallenged with the drug. Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome Use of temazepam late in pregnancy can result in sedation (respiratory depression, lethargy, hypotonia) and/or withdrawal symptoms (hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties) in the neonate ( see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy ) . Monitor neonates exposed to temazepam during pregnancy or labor for signs of sedation and monitor neonates exposed to temazepam during pregnancy for signs of withdrawal; manage these neonates accordingly. Because of these risks, reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Observational studies have demonstrated that concomitant use of opioid analgesics and benzodiazepines increases the risk of drug related mortality compared to use of opioids alone. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use with the opioid have been determined (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines often (but not always) involve the use of doses greater than the maximum recommended dosage and commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes, including respiratory depression, overdose, or death (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE , Abuse). Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue temazepam or reduce the dosage (a patient-specific plan should be used to taper the dose) (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of temazepam). Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of temazepam after continued use , or administration of flumazenil (a benzodiazepine antagonist) may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening (e.g., seizures) (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE, Dependence). Protracted Withdrawal Syndrome In some cases, benzodiazepine users have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with withdrawal symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE, Dependence). Although behaviors such as sleep-driving may occur with temazepam alone at therapeutic doses, the use of alcohol and other CNS depressants with temazepam appears to increase the risk of such behaviors, as does the use of temazepam at doses exceeding the maximum recommended dose. As with "sleep-driving", patients usually do not remember these events. Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome Use of temazepam late in pregnancy can result in sedation (respiratory depression, lethargy, hypotonia) and/or withdrawal symptoms (hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties) in the neonate (see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy). Monitor neonates exposed to Restoril during pregnancy or labor for signs of sedation and monitor neonates exposed to temazepam during pregnancy for signs of withdrawal; manage these neonates accordingly. WARNINGS Concomitant use of benzodiazepines, including Temazepam, and opioids may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use with the opioid have been determined (see Drug Interactions ). Withdrawal symptoms (of the barbiturate type) have occurred after the abrupt discontinuation of benzodiazepines ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ). WARNINGS Risks from Concomitant Use with Opioids Concomitant use of benzodiazepines, including temazepam capsules, and opioids may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. If a decision is made to prescribe temazepam capsules concomitantly with opioids, prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use, and follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. In patients already receiving an opioid analgesic, prescribe a lower initial dose of temazepam capsules than indicated in the absence of an opioid and titrate based on clinical response. If an opioid is initiated in a patient already taking temazepam capsules, prescribe a lower initial dose of the opioid and titrate based upon clinical response. Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when temazepam capsules are used with opioids. Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use with the opioid have been determined ( see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Abuse, Misuse, and Addiction The use of benzodiazepines, including temazepam capsules, exposes users to the risks of abuse, misuse, and addiction, which can lead to overdose or death. Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines often (but not always) involve the use of doses greater than the maximum recommended dosage and commonly involve concomitant use of other medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which is associated with an increased frequency of serious adverse outcomes, including respiratory depression, overdose, or death ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE, Abuse ). Before prescribing temazepam capsules and throughout treatment, assess each patient’s risk for abuse, misuse, and addiction (e.g., using a standardized screening tool). Use of temazepam capsules, particularly in patients at elevated risk, necessitates counseling about the risks and proper use of temazepam capsules along with monitoring for signs and symptoms of abuse, misuse, and addiction. Dependence and Withdrawal Reactions To reduce the risk of withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue temazepam capsules or reduce the dosage (a patient-specific plan should be used to taper the dose) ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Discontinuation or Dosage Reduction of Temazepam Capsules ). Acute Withdrawal Reactions The continued use of benzodiazepines, including temazepam capsules, may lead to clinically significant physical dependence. Abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction of temazepam capsules after continued use, or administration of flumazenil (a benzodiazepine antagonist) may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, which can be life-threatening (e.g., seizures) ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE, Dependence ) . Protracted Withdrawal Syndrome In some cases, benzodiazepine users have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome with withdrawal symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE, Dependence ). Because some of the worrisome adverse effects of benzodiazepines, including temazepam capsules, appear to be dose related (see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ), it is important to use the lowest possible effective dose. Although behaviors such as “sleep-driving” may occur with temazepam capsules alone at therapeutic doses, the use of alcohol and other CNS depressants with temazepam capsules appears to increase the risk of such behaviors, as does the use of temazepam capsules at doses exceeding the maximum recommended dose. Due to the risk to the patient and the community, discontinuation of temazepam capsules should be strongly considered for patients who report a “sleep-driving” episode. Because temazepam capsules can cause drowsiness and a decreased level of consciousness, patients, particularly the elderly, are at higher risk of falls. Severe Anaphylactic and Anaphylactoid Reactions Rare cases of angioedema involving the tongue, glottis or larynx have been reported in patients after taking the first or subsequent doses of sedative-hypnotics, including temazepam capsules. Patients who develop angioedema after treatment with temazepam capsules should not be rechallenged with the drug. Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome Use of temazepam capsules late in pregnancy can result in sedation (respiratory depression, lethargy, hypotonia) and/or withdrawal symptoms (hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties) in the neonate ( see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy). Monitor neonates exposed to temazepam capsules during pregnancy or labor for signs of sedation and monitor neonates exposed to temazepam capsules during pregnancy for signs of withdrawal; manage these neonates accordingly. WARNINGS Sleep disturbance may be the presenting manifestation of an underlying physical and/or psychiatric disorder. Because some of the worrisome adverse effects of benzodiazepines, including temazepam, appear to be dose related (see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ), it is important to use the lowest possible effective dose. As with sleep-driving, patients usually do not remember these events. Withdrawal symptoms (of the barbiturate type) have occurred after the abrupt discontinuation of benzodiazepines (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Benzodiazepines may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. An increased risk of congenital malformations associated with the use of diazepam and chlordiazepoxide during the first trimester of pregnancy has been suggested in several studies. Transplacental distribution has resulted in neonatal CNS depression following the ingestion of therapeutic doses of a benzodiazepine hypnotic during the last weeks of pregnancy. Reproduction studies in animals with temazepam were performed in rats and rabbits. In a perinatal-postnatal study in rats, oral doses of 60 mg/kg/day resulted in increasing nursling mortality. Teratology studies in rats demonstrated increased fetal resorptions at doses of 30 and 120 mg/kg in one study and increased occurrence of rudimentary ribs, which are considered skeletal variants, in a second study at doses of 240 mg/kg or higher. In rabbits, occasional abnormalities such as exencephaly and fusion or asymmetry of ribs were reported without dose relationship. Although these abnormalities were not found in the concurrent control group, they have been reported to occur randomly in historical controls. At doses of 40 mg/kg or higher, there was an increased incidence of the 13th rib variant when compared to the incidence in concurrent and historical controls. Temazepam is contraindicated in women who are or may become pregnant. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Patients should be instructed to discontinue the drug prior to becoming pregnant. The possibility that a woman of childbearing potential may be pregnant at the time of institution of therapy should be considered.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions The concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids increases the risk of respiratory depression because of actions at different receptor sites in the CNS that control respiration. Benzodiazepines interact at GABAA sites and opioids interact primarily at mu receptors. When benzodiazepines and opioids are combined, the potential for benzodiazepines to significantly worsen opioid-related respiratory depression exists. Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. The pharmacokinetic profile of temazepam does not appear to be altered by orally administered cimetidine dosed according to labeling. The benzodiazepines, including temazepam, produce additive CNS-depressant effects when co-administered with other CNS depressants such as alcohol, barbiturates, antipsychotics, sedative/hypnotics, anxiolytics, antidepressants, narcotic analgesics, sedative antihistamines, anticonvulsants, and anesthetics.

=== ADENOSINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: skin protect PURPOSE Skin Brightening Anti wrinkle HOMEOPATHIC INDICATIONS: For temporary relief of the symptoms of prostate issues including weak stream and frequent urination.** **These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. They have not been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration. PURPOSE Purpose: Anti wrinkle PURPOSE: Adenosinum Triphosphoricum Dinatrum – Mucus Congestion, Cinnamic Acid – Bladder Discomfort, Colibacillinum Cum Natrum Muriaticum – Stomach Discomfort, DNA – Joint Discomfort, Dysentery Bacillus - Fever, Echinacea (Angustifolia) - Headache, Enterococcus Faecalis – Mucus Congestion, Helicobacter Pylori – Stomach Discomfort, Helicobacter Pylori DNA – Stomach Discomfort, Legionella Pneumophila - Cough, Listeria Monocytogenes – Occasional Diarrhea, Malicum Acidum – Joint Discomfort, Mycoplasma Pneumoniae – Mucus Congestion, Natrum Oxalaceticum – Bladder Discomfort, Oroticum Acidum – Stomach Discomfort, Petroselinum Sativum - Fever, Pneumococcinum - Headache, Proteus (Mirabilis) – Mucus Congestion, Proteus (Morgani) – Stomach Discomfort, Proteus (Vulgaris) – Bladder Discomfort, Pseudomonas Aeruginosa - Fever, Riboflavinum - Headache, Salmonella Typhi Nosode – Stomach Discomfort, Shigella Sonnei – Occasional Diarrhea, Streptococcus Agalactiae - Cough, Streptococcus Bovis – Joint Discomfort, Streptococcus Dysgalactiae – Joint Discomfort, Streptococcus Mutans - Fever, Streptococcus Uberis - Fever, Streptococcus Viridans - Fever PURPOSE: For temporary relief of symptoms due to painful chronically enlarged lymph glands; exhaustion and emaciation, chronic intermittent fever with chills. INDICATIONS: For the temporary relief of symptoms related to allergies to eggs in foods and supplements, including skin inflammation, hives, runny nose, sneezing, stomach cramps, nausea, vomiting, coughing.** **These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. USES: To help maintain a healthy level of hydration in the body.**
Indications: How to use; At the last stage of basic care, apply an appropriate amount to the face, neck, arms, and legs that are easily exposed to UV rays. Uses ■ Intensive EGF peptide serum is formulated with EGF, peptide and collagen for brightening and firming. Before use, remove sweat, water, and oil, and apply evenly to the armpit while rolling the ball in a clean state, then dry completely before wearing clothes. Gently massage the entire body, including the abdomen, thighs, breasts and buttocks, which require intensive care in the morning and evening. It is recommended to reapply often when the skin is tight due to dryness or in the middle of pregnancy (after 15 weeks). HOMEOPATHIC INDICATIONS: For temporary relief of the symptoms of prostate issues including weak stream and frequent urination.** **These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. They have not been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration. Uses Uses: Decrease the appearance of fine lines, wrinkles, scarring and discolorations of the skin USES: • For the temporary relief of symptoms including: • mucus congestion • stomach discomfort • fever • headache • cough • joint discomfort • occasional diarrhea • bladder discomfort These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. INDICATIONS: For temporary relief of symptoms due to painful chronically enlarged lymph glands; exhaustion and emaciation, chronic intermittent fever with chills. INDICATIONS: For the temporary relief of symptoms related to allergies to eggs in foods and supplements, including skin inflammation, hives, runny nose, sneezing, stomach cramps, nausea, vomiting, coughing.** **These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. USES: To help maintain a healthy level of hydration in the body.**
Dosage: topical use only Directions ■ Can be used daily, AM and PM. Gently massage onto face in circular motions untill absorbed. DIRECTIONS: 1-10 drops under the tongue, 2 times a day or as directed by a health professional. Consult a physician for use in children under 12 years of age. Directions Directions: 1. Wash the face and pat dry skin. Do not use toner before applying this product. 2. Apply 1/3 up to 2/2 of a dropper of the essence to face and neck, massaging in gently and evenly. 3. Allow the essence to dry. 4. The product may precipitate during long-term storage. However, it will not cause any quality problems. Make sure to shake well before using. 5. Reapplication to rapidly aging spots such as around the eyes and mouth is recommended. 6. After 1-2 minutes, when you feel some tension in your skin, apply moisturizer as usual. 7. For best results, apply twice a day, morning and night. 8. Single treatments are recommended at nighttime. 9. Store in a refrigerator (2-15℃) after each use. DIRECTIONS: 1-10 drops under the tongue, 3 times a day or as directed by a health professional. DIRECTIONS: 10 drops orally, 3 times a day. DIRECTIONS: 3-10 drops under the tongue, 3 times a day or as directed by a health professional. DIRECTIONS: Adults & children above 12 years: Mix 3 parts water to 1 part juice. Add 6 drops Hydrate II to 8oz mixture or add 30 drops to a quart mixture. Drink 4 - 8 oz glasses daily between meals. Drink Hydrate/water mixture for 6 days and then only water for 1 day. Repeat. After 8 weeks begin drinking more pure water and less Hydrate/water mixture.
Warnings: Precautions when using 1. When using cosmetics or after use, if there are any abnormal symptoms or side effects such as red spots, swelling, or itching in the area of use due to direct sunlight, consult with a specialist. 2. Refrain from using on areas with scars, etc. 3. Precautions for storage and handling A) Keep out of reach of children B) Store away from direct sunlight. WARNINGS For external use only. Avoid contact with eyes. Keep out of reach of children. Discontinue use if signs of irritation appear. [Precautions for use] 1. During using product or after use, if there are any abnormal symptoms or side effects such as red spots, swelling, or itching on the area of use due to direct sunlight, con sult with a specialist. Pre cautions for storage and handling A) Keep out of reach of children B) Store away from direct sunlight 4. For arbutin, papules and mild itching have been repo rted in 「Human Application Test Data」. (Precautions for use) 1. During using product or after use, if there are any abnormal symptoms or side effects such as red spots, swelling or itching in the area of use due to direct sunlight, consult with a specialist. Precautions for storage and handling A) Keep out of reach of children B) Store away from direct sunlight WARNINGS: Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, contact physician or Poison Control Center right away. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Tamper seal: "Sealed for Your Protection." Do not use if seal is broken or missing. WARNINGS Warnings: 1. For external use only. Do not use on wounds and/or any inflammation of the skin. Stop use and ask a doctor if you are experiencing any of the following symptoms: reddening or spotting of the skin, irritation, and/or increased sensitivity. 4. When using this product avoid contact with eyes. If irritation occurs, immediately cleanse with fresh water. 5. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. WARNINGS: If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, contact a physician or Poison Control Center right away. Tamper Evident: Sealed for your protection. Do not use if seal is broken or missing. WARNINGS: If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health care professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Do not use if tamper evident seal is broken or missing. Store in a cool, dry place. WARNINGS: Consult a physician for use in children under 12 years of age. IF PREGNANT OR BREAST-FEEDING , ask a health care professional before use. KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN. In case of overdose (or accidental ingestion) get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.

=== ALCOHOL ANTISEPTIC ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic, Hand Rub Purpose Anti-Bacterial Uses Effective in eliminating harmful germs and bacteria when soap and water are unavailable Purpose Uses Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease. For use when soap and water are not available
Indications: Uses Hand sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease for use when soap and water are not available Use Health care personnel hand rub to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease. Users Effective in eliminating harmful germs and bacteria when soap and water are unavailable. Use[s] Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease. For use when soap and water are not available. Users Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease.
Dosage: Directions wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry without wiping supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product. Directions Place enough product on hands to cover all surfaces. Rub hands together until dry. Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing.
Warnings: Warnings Flammable, keep away from fire/ flame For external use only Do not use in the eyes on children less than 2 years of age on open skin wounds When using When using this product keep out of eyes, ears, and mouth, In case of contact, rinse thoroughly with water. Stop use and ask a doctor if Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation and redness develop condition persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children if swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only. Flammable. Keep away from heat or flame. Flammable.Keep away from fire or flames. Warnings Flammable. Keep away from fire or flames. For external use only. Do not use it near eye area. In case of contact, rinse eyes throughly with water. Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash appears and lasts. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Keep away from heat or flame Do not use in children less than 2 months of age on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes, ears, and mouth. In case of contact with eyes, rinse eyes thoroughly with water. Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs. These may be signs of a serious condition. Keep away from fire or flame. In case of contact, rinse eyes thoroughly with water.

=== ATROPINE SULFATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Atropine Sulfate Injection, USP, is indicated for temporary blockade of severe or life threatening muscarinic effects, e.g., as an antisialagogue, an antivagal agent, an antidote for organophosphorus or muscarinic mushroom poisoning, and to treat bradyasystolic cardiac arrest. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Atropine Sulfate Injection, USP, is indicated for temporary blockade of severe or life threatening muscarinic effects, e.g., as an antisialagogue, an antivagal agent, an antidote for organophosphorus or muscarinic mushroom poisoning, and to treat bradyasystolic cardiac arrest. Atropine is a muscarinic antagonist indicated for temporary blockade of severe or life threatening muscarinic effects. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Atropine is indicated for temporary blockade of severe or life threatening muscarinic effects, e.g., as an antisialagogue, an antivagal agent, an antidote for organophosphorus, carbamate, or muscarinic mushroom poisoning, and to treat symptomatic bradycardia. 1 Indications and Usage Atropine sulfate injection is indicated for temporary blockade of severe or life-threatening muscarinic effects, e.g., as an antisialagogue, an antivagal agent, an antidote for organophosphorus or muscarinic mushroom poisoning and to treat bradyasystolic cardiac arrest. Atropine is a muscarinic antagonist indicated for temporary blockade of severe or life-threatening muscarinic effects. (1) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Based on a review of this drug by the National Academy of Sciences-National Research Council and/or other information, FDA has classified the indications as follows: "Possibly" effective: For use as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome (irritable colon, spastic colon, mucous colitis) and acute enterocolitis. May also be useful as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of duodenal ulcer. Final classification of the less-than-effective indications requires further investigation. IT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN CONCLUSIVELY WHETHER ANTICHOLINERGIC/ANTISPASMODIC DRUGS AID IN THE HEALING OF A DUODENAL ULCER, DECREASE THE RATE OF RECURRENCES OR PREVENT COMPLICATIONS. 1. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Atropine sulfate ophthalmic solution, 1% is indicated in adults and pediatric patients aged three (3) months and older for: Atropine is an anticholinergic agent indicated in adults and pediatric patients aged three (3) months and older for: Cycloplegia ( 1.1 ) Mydriasis ( 1.2 ) Penalization of the healthy eye in the treatment of amblyopia ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Cycloplegia 1.2 Mydriasis 1.3 Penalization of the Healthy Eye in the Treatment of Amblyopia INDICATIONS AND USAGE Diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets are indicated as adjunctive therapy in the management of diarrhea in patients 13 years of age and older. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Atropine sulfate ophthalmic solution, 1% is indicated for: Atropine is an anti-muscarinic agent indicated for: Cycloplegia ( 1.1 ) Mydriasis ( 1.2 ) Penalization of the healthy eye in the treatment of amblyopia ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Cycloplegia 1.2 Mydriasis 1.3 Penalization of the healthy eye in the treatment of amblyopia
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION 2.1 General Administration Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Do not administer unless solution is clear and seal is intact. Each vial is intended for single dose only. Discard unused portion. For Intravenous administration. Titrate based on heart rate, PR interval, blood pressure and symptoms. 2.2 Adult Dosage 2.3 Pediatric Dosage Dosing in pediatric populations has not been well studied. Usual initial dose is 0.01 to 0.03 mg/kg. 2.4 Dosing in Patients with Coronary Artery Disease Limit the total dose of atropine sulfate to 0.03 to 0.04 mg/kg [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.1 )]. DOSAGE 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION 2.1 General Administration Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. 2.4 Dosing in Patients with Coronary Artery Disease Limit the total dose of atropine sulfate to 0.03 to 0.04 mg/kg [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.1) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For intravenous administration. ( 2.1 ). Titrate according to heart rate, PR interval, blood pressure and symptoms. ( 2.1 ) Adult dosage Antisialagogue or for antivagal effects: Initial single dose of 0.5 to 1 mg. ( 2.2 ) Antidote for organophosphorus or muscarinic mushroom poisoning: Initial single dose of 2 to 3 mg, repeated every 20 to 30 minutes. ( 2.2 ) Bradyasystolic cardiac arrest: 1 mg dose, repeated every 3 to 5 minutes if asystole persists. ( 2.2 ) Patients with Coronary Artery Disease: Limit the total dose to 0.03 mg/kg to 0.04 mg/kg. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 General Administration Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. 2.2 Adult Dosage Table 1: Recommended Dosage Use Dose (adults) Repeat Antisialagogue or other antivagal 0.5 to 1 mg 1 to 2 hours Organophosphorus or muscarinic mushroom poisoning 2 to 3 mg 20 to 30 minutes Bradyasystolic cardiac arrest 1 mg 3 to 5 minutes; 3 mg maximum total dose 2.3 Pediatric Dosage Dosing in pediatric populations has not been well studied. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage is individualized by use, refer to the full prescribing information for recommended adult and pediatric dosages ( 2.2 , 2.3 ). Patients with Ischemic Heart Disease: Do not exceed 0.04 mg/kg. ( 2.4 , 5.2 ) 2.1 General Administration Inspect parenteral drug products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. After initial use, discard unused portion within 24 hours. Intravenous administration is usually preferred, but subcutaneous, intramuscular, endotracheal, and intraosseous administration are possible. 2.2 Adult Dosage Table 1: Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients Use Initial Dose Continued Treatment Antisialagogue or 0.5 to 1 mg IV/IM/SC Repeat as needed every 4 to 6 hours. other antivagal 30 to 60 minutes (preanesthesia and preoperatively Maximum Total Dose during surgery) 3 mg Organophosphorus, carbamate, or muscarinic mushroom poisoning 1 to 6 mg IV/IM/ET depending on severity of symptoms Repeat as needed every 3 to 5 minutes Dose may be doubled with each administration until response (reduced bronchospasm, improved oxygenation and drying of pulmonary secretions). Maintenance Dose: Administer 10% to 20% of the loading dose required for response as a continuous infusion per hour and titrate. Maximum Total Dose: No maximum total dose. Symptomatic 0.5 mg IV/IM or 1 to 2 mg As needed every 3 to 5 minutes bradycardia* ET by diluting in no more than 10 mL sterile water for injection or 0.9% sodium chloride Maximum Total Dose 3 mg IV=intravenous; IM=intramuscular; SC=subcutaneous; ET=endotracheal *Do not rely on atropine in type II second-degree or third-degree AV block with wide QRS complexes because these bradyarrhythmias are not likely to be responsive to reversal of cholinergic effects by atropine. Atropine has no effect on bradycardia in patients with transplanted hearts. 2.3 Pediatric Dosage Table 2: Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients Use Initial Dose Continued Treatment Antisialagogue or other antivagal (preanesthesia and during surgery)* 0.02 mg/kg IV/IM/SC 30 to 60 minutes preoperatively Repeat as needed every 4 to 6 hours. Maximum Single Dose Less than 12 years old: 0.5 mg 12 years and older: 1 mg Maximum Total Dose Less than 12 years old: 1 mg 12 years and older: 2 mg Organophosphorus, 0.02 to 0.06 mg/kg Repeat as needed every 5 minutes carbamate or IV/IM/IO/ET muscarinic Dose may be doubled with each administration until response mushroom poisoning (reduced bronchospasm, improved oxygenation and drying of pulmonary secretions). Maintenance Dose: Administer 10% to 20% of the loading dose required for response as a continuous infusion per hour and titrate as needed. Symptomatic 0.02 mg/kg IV/IO or Repeat as needed every 5 minutes bradycardia due to 0.04 to 0.06 mg/kg via increased vagal tone endotracheal tube Maximum Single Dose or primary AV followed by 1 to 5 mL Less than 12 years old: 0.5 mg conduction block flush of normal saline 12 years and older: 1 mg (not secondary to followed by 5 hypoxia) ** ventilations IV=intravenous; IM=intramuscular; SC=subcutaneous; IO=intraosseous; ET=endotracheal; *Available evidence does not support the routine use of atropine in emergency intubation of critically ill infants and children except in specific emergency intubations when there is higher risk of bradycardia ** Atropine has no effect on bradycardia in patients with transplanted hearts. 2.4 Dosing in Patients with Ischemic Heart Disease Limit the total dose of atropine sulfate to 0.03 to 0.04 mg/kg [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 )]. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate and Scopolamine Hydrobromide Tablets should be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient to assure symptomatic control with a minimum of adverse effects. Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate and Scopolamine Hydrobromide Tablets - Adults: One or two Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate and Scopolamine Hydrobromide Tablets three or four times a day according to condition and severity of symptoms. 2 Dosage and Administration 2.1 General Administration Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Each syringe is intended for single-dose only. 2.2 Adult Dosage Table 1: Recommended Dosage 2.3 Pediatric Dosage Dosing in pediatric populations has not been well studied. Usual initial dose is 0.01 mg/kg to 0.03 mg/kg. 2.4 Dosing in Patients with Coronary Artery Disease Limit the total dose of atropine sulfate to 0.03 mg/kg to 0.04 mg/kg [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. (2.1) Titrate according to heart rate, PR interval, blood pressure and symptoms. (2.1) Adult dosage - Antisialagogue or for antivagal effects: Initial single dose of 0.5 mg to 1 mg. (2.2) - Antidote for organophosphorus or muscarinic mushroom poisoning: Initial single dose of 2 mg to 3 mg, repeated every 20 to 30 minutes. (2.2) - Bradyasystolic cardiac arrest: 1 mg dose, repeated every 3 to 5 minutes if asystole persists. (2.2) Patients with Coronary Artery Disease: Limit the total dose to 0.03 mg/kg to 0.04 mg/kg. (2.4) Image1.jpg DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of Donnatal® Elixir should be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient to assure symptomatic control with a minimum of adverse effects. Donnatal® Elixir. Adults: One or two teaspoonfuls of elixir three or four times a day according to conditions and severity of symptoms. Pediatric patients: may be dosed every 4 to 6 hours. Use a pediatric dosing device or oral syringe to measure the dose. Starting Dosage Body weight Every 4 hours Every 6 hours 10 lb. (4.5 kg) 0.5 mL 0.75 mL 20 lb. (9.1 kg) 1 mL 1.5 mL 30 lb. (13.6 kg) 1.5 mL 2 mL 50 lb. (22.7 kg) 2.5 mL 3.75 mL 75 lb. (34 kg) 3.75 mL 5 mL 100 lb. (45.4 kg) 5 mL 7.5 mL 2. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply 1 drop topically to the cul-de-sac of the conjunctiva, forty minutes prior to the intended maximal dilation time ( 2 ) In adults and pediatric patients 3 years and older, doses may be repeated up to twice daily as needed. ( 2 ) Apply 1 drop topically to the cul-de-sac of the conjunctiva, forty minutes prior to the intended maximal dilation time. In adults and pediatric patients aged 3 years and older, doses may be repeated up to twice daily as needed. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Management of Diarrhea in Patients 13 Years of Age and Older Diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets are recommended as adjunctive therapy for the management of diarrhea in patients 13 years of age and older. Consider the nutritional status and degree of dehydration in patients prior to initiating therapy with diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets. The use of diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets should be accompanied by appropriate fluid and electrolyte therapy, when indicated. If severe dehydration or electrolyte imbalance is present, do not administer diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets until appropriate corrective therapy has been indicated (see WARNINGS ). Initial and Maximum Recommended Dosage in Patients 13 Years of Age and Older The initial adult dosage is 2 diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets four times daily (maximum total daily dose of 20 mg per day of diphenoxylate hydrochloride). Most patients will require this dosage until initial control of diarrhea has been achieved. Clinical improvement of acute diarrhea is usually observed within 48 hours. Dosage after Initial Control of Diarrhea After initial control has been achieved, the diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablet dosage may be reduced to meet individual requirements. Control may often be maintained with as little as two diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets daily. Duration of Treatment If clinical improvement of chronic diarrhea after treatment with the maximum recommended daily dosage is not observed within 10 days, discontinue diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets as symptoms are unlikely to be controlled by further administration. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION In individuals from three (3) months of age or greater, 1 drop topically to the cul-de-sac of the conjunctiva, forty minutes prior to the intended maximal dilation time ( 2.1 ) In individuals 3 years of age or greater, doses may be repeated up to twice daily as needed. ( 2 .2) 2.1 In individuals from three (3) months of age or greater, 1 drop topically to the cul-de-sac of the conjunctiva, forty minutes prior to the intended maximal dilation time. 2.2 In individuals 3 years of age or greater, doses may be repeated up to twice daily as needed.
Warnings: WARNINGS Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate and Scopolamine Hydrobromide Tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate and Scopolamine Hydrobromide Tablets. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. In the presence of a high environmental temperature, heat prostration can occur with belladonna alkaloids (fever and heatstroke due to decreased sweating). Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction, especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy. In this instance, treatment with this drug would be inappropriate and possibly harmful. Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate and Scopolamine Hydrobromide Tablets may produce drowsiness or blurred vision. The patient should be warned, should these occur, not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness, such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery, and not to perform hazardous work. Phenobarbital may decrease the effect of anticoagulants, and necessitate larger doses of the anticoagulant for optimal effect. When the phenobarbital is discontinued, the dose of the anticoagulant may have to be decreased. Phenobarbital may be habit forming and should not be administered to individuals known to be addiction prone or to those with a history of physical and/or psychological dependence upon drugs. Since barbiturates are metabolized in the liver, they should be used with caution and initial doses should be small in patients with hepatic dysfunction. WARNINGS Donnatal® Elixir can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Donnatal® Elixir. Donnatal® Elixir may produce drowsiness or blurred vision. WARNINGS Respiratory and/or CNS Depression in Pediatric Patients Less Than 6 Years of Age Cases of severe respiratory depression and coma, leading to permanent brain damage or death have been reported in patients less than 6 years of age who received diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets . Diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets are contraindicated in patients less than 6 years of age due to these risks (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Anticholinergic and Opioid-Toxicities Toxicities associated with the atropine and diphenoxylate components of diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets have been reported. The initial presenting symptoms may be delayed by up to 30 hours due to prolonged gastric emptying time induced by diphenoxylate hydrochloride. Clinical presentations vary in terms of which toxicity (anticholinergic vs. opioid) will present first or predominate; non-specific findings have been reported and include symptoms such as drowsiness (see OVERDOSAGE ). Dehydration and Electrolyte Imbalance The use of diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets should be accompanied by appropriate fluid and electrolyte therapy, when indicated. If severe dehydration or electrolyte imbalance is present, diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets should be withheld until appropriate corrective therapy has been initiated. Drug-induced inhibition of peristalsis may result in fluid retention in the intestine, which may further aggravate dehydration and electrolyte imbalance. Gastrointestinal Complications in Patients with Infectious Diarrhea Diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets are contraindicated in patients with diarrhea associated with organisms that penetrate the GI mucosa (toxigenic E. coli, Salmonella, Shigella ), and pseudomembranous enterocolitis ( Clostridium difficile ) associated with broad-spectrum antibiotics (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Antiperistaltic agents, including diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets, slow gastrointestinal motility and may enhance bacterial overgrowth and the release of bacterial exotoxins. Diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets have been reported to result in serious GI complications in patients with infectious diarrhea, including sepsis, prolonged and/or worsened diarrhea. Prolonged fever and the delay in the resolution of stool pathogens were reported in study of Shigellosis in adults who used diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets vs. placebo. Toxic Megacolon in Patients with Acute Ulcerative Colitis In some patients with acute ulcerative colitis, agents that inhibit intestinal motility or prolong intestinal transit time have been reported to induce toxic megacolon. Consequently, patients with acute ulcerative colitis should be carefully observed and diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets therapy should be discontinued promptly if abdominal distention occurs or if other untoward symptoms develop. Interaction with Meperidine Hydrocholoride Since the chemical structure of diphenoxylate hydrochloride is similar to that of meperidine hydrochloride, the concurrent use of diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets with monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors may, in theory, precipitate hypertensive crisis. Hepatorenal Disease Diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets should be used with extreme caution in patients with advanced hepatorenal disease and in all patients with abnormal liver function since hepatic coma may be precipitated. Interaction with CNS Depressants Diphenoxylate hydrochloride may potentiate the action of other drugs that cause dizziness or drowsiness, including barbiturates, benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, and tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, and alcohol. Therefore, the patient should be closely observed when any of these are used concomitantly.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None. None. ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS glaucoma; obstructive uropathy (for example, bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy); obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract (as in achalasia, pyloroduodenal stenosis, etc.); paralytic ileus, intestinal atony of the elderly or debilitated patient; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage; severe ulcerative colitis especially if complicated by toxic megacolon; myasthenia gravis; hiatal hernia associated with reflux esophagitis; in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients. Phenobarbital is contraindicated in acute intermittent porphyria and in those patients in whom phenobarbital produces restlessness and/or excitement. (4) None. (4) 4. CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity or allergic reaction to any ingredient in formulation ( 4.1 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Atropine sulfate ophthalmic solution 1% is contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated a previous hypersensitivity or known allergic reaction to any ingredient of the formulation. CONTRAINDICATIONS Diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets are contraindicated in: Pediatric patients less than 6 years of age due to the risks of respiratory and central nervous system (CNS) depression (see WARNINGS ). Patients with diarrhea associated with pseudomembranous enterocolitis (Clostridium difficile) or other enterotoxin-producing bacteria due to the risk of gastrointestinal (GI) complications, including sepsis (see WARNINGS ). Patients with known hypersensitivity to diphenoxylate or atropine. Patients with obstructive jaundice. CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity or allergic reaction to any ingredient in formulation ( 4.1 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity to any Component of this Medication Atropine sulfate ophthalmic solution should not be used in anyone who has demonstrated a previous hypersensitivity or known allergic reaction to any ingredient of the formulation because it may recur.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Mexiletine Atropine Sulfate Injection decreased the rate of mexiletine absorption without altering the relative oral bioavailability; this delay in mexiletine absorption was reversed by the combination of atropine and intravenous metoclopramide during pretreatment for anesthesia. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Mexiletine: Decreases rate of mexiletine absorption. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Mexiletine Atropine Sulfate Injection decreased the rate of mexiletine absorption without altering the relative oral bioavailability; this delay in mexiletine absorption was reversed by the combination of atropine and intravenous metoclopramide during pretreatment for anesthesia. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Mexiletine : Decreases rate of mexiletine absorption. Drug Interactions Phenobarbital may decrease the effect of anticoagulants, and necessitate larger doses of the anticoagulant for optimal effect. When the phenobarbital is discontinued, the dose of the anticoagulant may have to be decreased. Mexiletine: Decreases rate of mexiletine absorption. (7.1) Revised: 8/2024 7. DRUG INTERACTIONS The use of atropine and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) is generally not recommended because of the potential to precipitate hypertensive crisis. ( 7 ) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) The use of atropine and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) is generally not recommended because of the potential to precipitate hypertensive crisis. Drug Interactions Alcohol Alcohol may increase the CNS depressant effects of diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets and may cause drowsiness (see WARNINGS ). Avoid concomitant use of diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets with alcohol. Other Drugs that Cause CNS Depression The concurrent use of diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets with other drugs that cause CNS depression (e.g., barbiturates, benzodiazepines, opioids, buspirone, antihistamines, muscle relaxants), may potentiate the effects of diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets (see WARNINGS ). Either diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets or the other interacting drug should be chosen, depending on the importance of the drug to the patient. If CNS-acting drugs cannot be avoided, monitor patients for CNS adverse reactions. MAO Inhibitors Diphenoxylate may interact with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) and precipitate a hypertensive crisis . Avoid use of diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate tablets in patients who take MAOIs and monitor for signs and symptoms of hypertensive crisis (headache, hyperthermia, hypertension).

=== CARBOXYMETHYLCELLULOSE SODIUM ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Eye lubricant Purpose Carboxymethylcellulose sodium.............Eye Lubricant Purposes Lubricant Lubricant Purpose Lubricant Eye lubricant
Indications: Uses For the temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye. For the temporary relief of discomfort due to minor irritations of the eye or from exposure to wind and sun. For use as a lubricant to prevent further irritation or to relieve dryness of the eye. Uses for the temporary relief of burning, irritation, and discomfort due to dryness of the eye or exposure to wind or sun may be used as a protectant against further irritation Uses For the temporary relief of burning, irritation, and discomfort due to dryness of the eye or exposure to wind or sun. May be used as a protectant against further irritation. Uses for use as a protectant against further irritation or to relieve dryness of the eye for temporary relief of burning, irritation, and discomfort due to dryness of the eye or exposure to wind or sun Uses As a lubricant to relieve dryness of the eye. As a protectant against further irritation of the eye. For temporary relief of burning, irritation, and discomfort including exposure to wind or sun. Uses ▪ For the temporary relief of burning, irritation, and discomfort due to dryness of the eye or exposure to wind or sun. ▪ For use as a protectant against further irritation or to relieve dryness of the eye. Uses For the temporary relief of burning, irritation, anddiscomfort due to dryness of the eye or exposure towind or sun.
Dosage: Directions To open, twist tab completely off. Instill 1 or 2 drops into affected eye(s) as needed and discard container. Directions To open, twist and pull tab to remove. Instill 1 or 2 drops in the affected eye(s) as needed and discard container. If used for post-operative (e.g., LASIK) dryness and discomfort, follow your eye doctor’s instructions. Directions To open, TWIST AND PULL TAB TO REMOVE . *Follow your eye doctor’s instructions if you are using this product after an eye surgery (e.g., LASIK) to relieve eye dryness and discomfort. Directions Wash your hands. Instill 1 or 2 drops in the affected eye(s) as needed. Directions instill 1 to 2 drops in the affected eye(s) as needed Directions Instill 1 or 2 drops in the affected eye(s) as needed. Directions Instilllor 2 drops in the affected eye(s) asneeded
Warnings: Warnings For use in the eyes only. Do not use if solution changes color or becomes cloudy. When using this product ■ do not touch tip of container to any surface to avoid contamination. ■ do not reuse; once opened discard. Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ you experience eye pain, changes in vision, continued redness or irritation of the eye. ■ the condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. ​Warnings For external use only. ​ Do not use if solution changes color or becomes cloudy. When using the product to avoid contamination do not touch tip of container to any surface. do not reuse. once opened, discard. do not touch unit-dose tip to eye. Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience eye pain. changes in vision occur. redness or irritation of the eye continues. redness or irritation of the eye worsens or persists for more than 72 hours. If accidentally swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. Warnings For external use only. To avoid contamination, do not touch tip of container to any surface. If solution changes color or becomes cloudy, do not use. Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience eye pain, changes in vision, continued redness or irritation of the eye, or if the condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours. Warnings For use in eyes only. Retain outer carton for full product drug facts. Stop use and ask a doctor if: You experience eye pain, changes in vision, continued redness or irritation of the eye. The condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours. Keep out of reach of children .If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right awav. Do not use • If solution changes color or becomes cloudy. When using this product: Avoid contamination, do not touch tip of container to any surface. Replace cap after use. If pregnant or breast feeding If pregnant or breast feeding, ask a health professional before use. Warnings For external use only Do not use this product if solution changes color or becomes cloudy When using this product do not touch tip of container to any surface to avoid contamination replace cap after using remove contact lenses before using Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience eye pain changes in vision continued redness or irritation condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings For external use only Do not use if this product changes color or becomes cloudy if you are sensitive to any ingredient in this product When using this product to avoid contamination, do not touch tip of container to any surface. Replace cap after using. Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience eye pain changes in vision continued redness or irritation of the eye, or if the condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children. Warnings For external use only To avoid contamination do not touch tip of opened container to any surface. Once opened discard. Use individual vials within 90 days of opening foil pouch. This product contains no preservatives. Any solution not used immediately after opening should be discarded. Re-use of this single-use product may lead to inflammation of the eye and/or discomfort, based on potential contamination during handling. Stop use and ask a doctor if You experience eye pain, changes in vision, continued redness or irritation. Condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. Warnings ▪ For external use only. ▪ To avoid contamination, do not touch tip of container to any surface. ▪ If solution changes color or becomes cloudy, do not use. For external use only. To avoid contamination, do not touch tip of container toany surface. lf solution changes color or becomes cloudy, do not use.

=== LEVONORGESTREL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Emergency contraceptive Emergency Contraceptive
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Iclevia TM (levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets) is indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. Iclevia is a combination of levonorgestrel, a progestin, and ethinyl estradiol, an estrogen, indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. ( 1 ) Use for women to reduce chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex (if a contraceptive failed or if you did not use birth control) INDICATIONS AND USAGE DOLISHALE is indicated for the prevention of pregnancy in women who elect to use oral contraceptives as a method of contraception. Oral contraceptives are highly effective for pregnancy prevention. Table 2 lists the typical unintended pregnancy rates for users of combination oral contraceptives and other methods of contraception. The efficacy of these contraceptive methods, except sterilization, the IUD, and implants, depend upon the reliability with which they are used. Correct and consistent use of methods can result in lower failure rates. Table 2: Percentage of Women Experiencing an Unintended Pregnancy During The First Year of Typical Use and The First Year of Perfect Use of Contraception and The Percentage Continuing Use at The End of the First Year. United States. % of Women Experiencing an Unintended Pregnancy within the First Year of Use % of Women Continuing Use at One Year 3 Method (1) Typical Use 1 (2) Perfect Use 2 (3) (4) Chance 4 85 85 Spermicides 5 26 6 40 Periodic abstinence 25 63 Calendar 9 Ovulation Method 3 Sympto-Thermal 6 2 Post-Ovulation 1 Cap 7 Parous Women 40 26 42 Nulliparous Women 20 9 56 Sponge Parous Women 40 20 42 Nulliparous Women 20 9 56 Diaphragm 7 20 6 56 Withdrawal 19 4 Condom 8 Female (Reality™) 21 5 56 Male 14 3 61 Pill 5 71 Progestin only 0.5 Combined 0.1 IUD Progesterone T 2.0 1.5 81 Copper T380A 0.8 0.6 78 LNg 20 0.1 0.1 81 Depo-Provera ® 0.3 0.3 70 Levonorgestrel Implants (Norplant ® ) 0.05 0.05 88 Female Sterilization 0.5 0.5 100 Male Sterilization 0.15 0.10 100 Emergency Contraceptive Pills: The FDA has concluded that certain combined oral contraceptives containing ethinyl estradiol and norgestrel or levonorgestrel are safe and effective for use as postcoital emergency contraception. Treatment initiated within 72 hours after unprotected intercourse reduces the risk of pregnancy by at least 75%. 9 Lactation Amenorrhea Method: LAM is a highly effective, temporary method of contraception. 10 Source: Trussell J. Contraceptive efficacy. In: Hatcher RA, Trussell J, Stewart F, Cates W, Stewart GK, Kowel D, Guest F. Contraceptive Technology: Seventeenth Revised Edition. New York NY: Irvington Publishers; 1998. 1. Among typical couples who initiate use of a method (not necessarily for the first time), the percentage who experience an accidental pregnancy during the first year if they do not stop use for any other reason. 2. Among couples who initiate use of a method (not necessarily for the first time) and who use it perfectly (both consistently and correctly), the percentage who experience an accidental pregnancy during the first year if they do not stop use for any other reason. 3. Among couples attempting to avoid pregnancy, the percentage who continue to use a method for one year. 4. The percents becoming pregnant in columns (2) and (3) are based on data from populations where contraception is not used and from women who cease using contraception in order to become pregnant. Among such populations, about 89% become pregnant within one year. This estimate was lowered slightly (to 85%) to represent the percent who would become pregnant within one year among women now relying on reversible methods of contraception if they abandoned contraception altogether. 5. Foams, creams, gels, vaginal suppositories, and vaginal film. 6. Cervical mucus (ovulation) method supplemented by calendar in the pre-ovulatory and basal body temperature in the post-ovulatory phases. 7. With spermicidal cream or jelly. 8. Without spermicides. 9. The treatment schedule is one dose within 72 hours after unprotected intercourse, and a second dose 12 hours after the first dose. The FDA has declared the following dosage regimens of oral contraceptives to be safe and effective for emergency contraception: for tablets containing 50 mcg of ethinyl estradiol and 500 mcg of norgestrel 1 dose is 2 tablets; for tablets containing 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol and 100 mcg of levonorgestrel 1 dose is 5 tablets; for tablets containing 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol and 150 mcg of levonorgestrel 1 dose is 4 tablets. 10. However, to maintain effective protection against pregnancy, another method of contraception must be used as soon as menstruation resumes, the frequency or duration of breastfeeds is reduced, bottle feeds are introduced, or the baby reaches 6 months of age. For women to reduce chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex (if a contraceptive failed or if you did not use birth control) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE CAMRESE ® is indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. CAMRESE is a combination of levonorgestrel, a progestin, and ethinyl estradiol, an estrogen, indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. Use for women to reduce chance of pregnancy af ter unprotected sex (if a contraceptive failed or if you did not use bir th control)
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day for 91 days. (2.1) Take tablets in the order directed on the Extended-Cycle Wallet. (2.2) 2.1 How to Start and Take Iclevia Iclevia is dispensed in an Extended-Cycle Wallet [see How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16) ]. Iclevia should be started on a Sunday (see Table 1). For the first cycle of a Sunday Start regimen, an additional method of contraception should be used until after the first 7 consecutive days of administration. Table 1: Instructions for Administration of Iclevia Starting Iclevia in females with no current use of hormonal contraception (Sunday Start) Important: Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of this product. Tablet Color: Iclevia active tablets are white (Day 1 to Day 84). Iclevia inactive tablets are green (Day 85 to Day 91). Sunday Start: For each 91-day course, take in the following order: Take the first white tablet (0.15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0.03 mg ethinyl estradiol) on the first Sunday after the onset of menstruation. If menstruation begins on a Sunday, take the tablet on that day. Due to the potential risk of becoming pregnant, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) for the first 7 days of treatment. Take subsequent white tablets once daily at the same time each day for a total of 84 days. Take one green tablet (inert) daily for the following 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken. A scheduled period should occur during the 7 days that the green tablets are taken. Begin the next and all subsequent 91-day courses of Iclevia without interruption on the same day of the week (Sunday) on which the patient began her first dose. Follow the same schedule as the initial 91-day course: a white tablet once a day for 84 days, and a green tablet once a day for 7 days. If the patient does not immediately start her next pill pack, instruct her to protect herself from pregnancy by using a non-hormonal back-up method of contraception until she has taken a white tablet daily for 7 consecutive days. Switching from another contraceptive method to Iclevia Start Iclevia: Another oral contraceptive On the day when the new pack of the previous COC would have been started Transdermal patch On the day when the next application would have been scheduled. Vaginal ring On the day when the next insertion would have been scheduled. Injection On the day when the next injection would have been scheduled. Intrauterine contraceptive (IUD) On the day of removal. If the IUD is not removed on first day of the patient’s menstrual cycle, additional non- hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) is needed for the first seven days of the first 91-day course. Implant On the day of removal. Starting Iclevia after Abortion or Miscarriage First-trimester After a first-trimester abortion or miscarriage, Iclevia may be started immediately. An additional method of contraception is not needed if Iclevia is started immediately. If Iclevia is not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy, the patient should use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) for the first seven days of her first 91-day course of Iclevia. Second-trimester Do not start Iclevia until 4 weeks after a second-trimester abortion or miscarriage, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start Iclevia following the instructions in Table 1 for Sunday start. Use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient’s first 91-day course of Iclevia [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Starting Iclevia after Childbirth Do not start Iclevia until 4 weeks after delivery, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start contraceptive therapy with Iclevia following the instructions in Table 1 for women not currently using hormonal contraception. Iclevia is not recommended for use in lactating women [see Use in Specific Populations (8.2) ] . If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum, consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of Iclevia [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.1 and 8.2) ]. 2.2 Dosing Iclevia Instruct patients to take one tablet by mouth at the same time every day. The dosing of Iclevia is one white pill containing levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol daily for 84 consecutive days, followed by one green pill (inactive pills without hormone) for 7 days. To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, Iclevia must be taken exactly as directed, in the order directed on the Wallet, and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours. Start taking the first white pill from a new Wallet the very next day after taking the last green inactive pill in the Wallet. The failure rate may increase when pills are missed or taken incorrectly. 2.3 Missed Doses Table 2: Instructions for Missed Iclevia Tablets If one active tablet (white) is missed in Days 1 through 84 Take the tablet as soon as possible. Take the next tablet at the regular time and continue taking one tablet a day until the 91-day course is finished. If two consecutive active tablets (white) are missed in Days 1 through 84 Take 2 tablets on the day remembered and 2 tablets the next day. Then continue taking one tablet a day until the 91-day course is finished. Additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) should be used as back-up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing tablets. If three or more consecutive active tablets (white) are missed in Days 1 through 84 Do not take the missed tablets. Continue taking one tablet a day until the 91-day course is finished. Additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) must be used as back-up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing tablets. If any of the seven green (inactive) tablets are missed Throw away the missed tablets. Continue taking the remaining tablets until the pack is finished. A backup birth control method is not needed. 2.4 Advice in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances In case of severe vomiting or diarrhea, absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken. If vomiting or diarrhea occurs within 3 to 4 hours after taking a white tablet, handle this as a missed tablet. Directions • take as soon as possible within 72 hours (3 days) after unprotected sex. The sooner you take it the better it will work. • if you vomit within 2 hours after taking the medication, call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat the dose DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, DOLISHALE (levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets) must be taken exactly as directed and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours. The possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of medication should be considered. Women who do not wish to become pregnant after discontinuation should be advised to immediately use another method of birth control. The dosage of DOLISHALE is one green tablet daily without any tablet-free interval. It is recommended that DOLISHALE tablets be taken at the same time each day. Initiation of Therapy Instructions for beginning DOLISHALE are provided in Table 4 below. Table 4 Current contraceptive therapy DOLISHALE start day Nonhormonal back-up method of birth control needed when correctly starting DOLISHALE? None Day 1 of patient's menstrual cycle (during the first 24 hours of her period) No 21-day COC regimen OR 28-day COC regimen Day 1 of patient's withdrawal bleed, at the latest 7 days after her last active tablet. No Progestin-only pill Day after taking a progestin-only pill Yes, for the first 7 days of DOLISHALE tablet taking Implant Day of implant removal Yes, for the first 7 days of DOLISHALE tablet taking Injection Day the next injection is due Yes, for the first 7 days of DOLISHALE tablet taking If spotting or unscheduled bleeding occurs, the patient is instructed to continue on the same regimen. This type of bleeding is usually transient and without significance; however, if the bleeding is persistent or prolonged, the patient is advised to consult her health care professional. The possibility of ovulation increases with each successive day that scheduled green tablets are missed. If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed schedule (missed one or more tablets or started taking them on a day later than she should have), the probability of pregnancy should be considered. Hormonal contraception must be discontinued if pregnancy is confirmed. The risk of pregnancy increases with each tablet missed. For additional patient instructions regarding missed tablets, see the WHAT TO DO IF YOU MISS PILLS section in the DETAILED PATIENT LABELING below. DOLISHALE may be initiated no earlier than day 28 postpartum in the nonlactating mother or after a second-trimester abortion due to the increased risk for thromboembolism (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS concerning thromboembolic disease). The patient should be advised to use a nonhormonal back-up method for the first 7 days of tablet-taking. However, if intercourse has already occurred, pregnancy should be excluded before the start of combined oral contraceptive use or the patient must wait for her first menstrual period. In the case of first-trimester abortion, if the patient starts DOLISHALE immediately, additional contraceptive measures are not needed. When should I use Levonorgestrel Tablet? The sooner you take emergency contraception, the better it works. You should use levonorgestrel tablet within 72 hours (3 days) after you have had unprotected sex . Levonorgestrel tablet is a backup or emergency method of birth control you can use when: • your regular birth control was used incorrectly or failed • you did not use any birth control method Directions take as soon as possible within 72 hours (3 days) after unprotected sex. if you vomit within 2 hours after taking the medication, call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat the dose. Take as soon as possible within 72 hours (3 days) after unprotected sex. If you vomit within 2 hours after taking the medication, call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat the dose 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day for 91 days in the order directed on the blister pack. ( 2 ) 2.1 How to Start and Take CAMRESE Begin CAMRESE on the first Sunday after the onset of menstruation. If menstruation begins on a Sunday, take the first light blue-green tablet that day. For each 91-day course, take in the following order: 1. Start the first light blue-green tablet on the first Sunday after onset of menstruation. Then take one light blue-green tablet daily for 84 consecutive days. Use a non-hormonal backup method of contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) until a light blue-green tablet has been taken daily for 7 consecutive days. 2. Then take one yellow tablet for 7 consecutive days. Bleeding should occur during the 7 days that the yellow tablets are taken. Begin the next and all subsequent 91-day cycles without interruption on the same day of the week (Sunday) on which the patient began her first dose of CAMRESE, following the same schedule: 84 days taking a light blue-green tablet followed by 7 days taking a yellow tablet. If the patient does not immediately start her next pill pack, instruct her to protect herself from pregnancy by using a non-hormonal backup method of contraception until she has taken a light blue-green tablet daily for 7 consecutive days. Switching to CAMRESE from another oral hormonal contraceptive or from another contraceptive method (transdermal patch, vaginal ring, injection, intrauterine contraceptive, implant) Start on the Sunday after the patient’s next period starts. Use additional non-hormonal contraceptive (such as condoms and spermicide) until the patient has taken a light blue-green tablet for 7 consecutive days. Starting CAMRESE after Abortion or Miscarriage First-trimester CAMRESE may be started on the Sunday after an abortion or miscarriage. The patient must use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) until the patient has taken a light blue-green tablet for 7 consecutive days. Second-trimester Do not start until 4 weeks after a second-trimester abortion or miscarriage, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start contraceptive therapy with CAMRESE following the instructions for women not currently using hormonal contraception. Use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) until the patient has taken a light blue-green tablet for 7 consecutive days [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Starting CAMRESE after Childbirth Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum, consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of CAMRESE [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 )]. 2.2 Dosing CAMRESE Take one tablet by mouth at the same time every day. The dosage of CAMRESE is one light blue-green tablet daily for 84 consecutive days, followed by one yellow tablet daily for 7 days. To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, CAMRESE must be taken exactly as directed, in the order directed, and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours. 2.3 Missed Doses Table 1. Instructions for Missed CAMRESE Tablets If one light blue-green tablet is missed Take the missed tablet as soon as possible. Take the next tablet at the regular time. Continue taking one tablet a day until the pack is finished. A backup birth control method is not required if the patient has sex. If two light blue-green tablet in a row are missed Take the two missed tablets as soon as possible, and the next two tablets the next day. Use additional nonhormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) until tablets have been taken for 7 days after missing tablets. If three or more light blue-green pills in a row are missed Throw away the missed pills. Continue taking one tablet every day as indicated on the pack until the pack is finished. Bleeding may occur during the week following the missed tablets. If any of the seven yellow tablets are missed Throw away the missed tablets. 2.4 Advice in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances In case of prolonged vomiting or diarrhea, absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken. The sooner you take it, the better it will work.
Warnings: Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to levonorgestrel Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) alert: This product does not protect against HIV/AIDS or other STDs Do not use • if you are already pregnant (because it will not work) • for regular birth control Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking efavirenz (HIV medication) or rifampin (tuberculosis treatment) or medication for seizures (epilepsy). These medications may reduce the effectiveness of levonorgestrel. When using this product you may have • menstrual changes • tiredness • breast pain • nausea • headache • vomiting • lower stomach (abdominal) pain • dizziness Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222) WARNINGS Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular side effects from oral contraceptive use. This risk increases with age and with the extent of smoking (in epidemiologic studies, 15 or more cigarettes per day was associated with a significantly increased risk) and is quite marked in women over 35 years of age. Women who use oral contraceptives should be strongly advised not to smoke. The use of oral contraceptives is associated with increased risks of several serious conditions including venous and arterial thrombotic and thromboembolic events (such as myocardial infarction, thromboembolism, stroke, and transient ischemic attack), hepatic neoplasia, gallbladder disease, and hypertension, although the risk of serious morbidity or mortality is very small in healthy women without underlying risk factors. The risk of morbidity and mortality increases significantly in the presence of other underlying risk factors such as certain inherited or acquired thrombophilias, hypertension, hyperlipidemias, obesity, diabetes, and surgery or trauma with increased risk of thrombosis (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Practitioners prescribing oral contraceptives should be familiar with the following information relating to these risks. The information contained in this package insert is principally based on studies carried out in patients who used oral contraceptives with higher doses of estrogens and progestogens than those in common use today. The effect of long-term use of the oral contraceptives with lower doses of both estrogens and progestogens remains to be determined. Throughout this labeling, epidemiological studies reported are of two types: retrospective or case control studies and prospective or cohort studies. Case control studies provide a measure of the relative risk of disease, namely, a ratio of the incidence of a disease among oral contraceptive users to that among nonusers. The relative risk does not provide information on the actual clinical occurrence of a disease. Cohort studies provide a measure of attributable risk, which is the difference in the incidence of disease between oral contraceptive users and nonusers. The attributable risk does provide information about the actual occurrence of a disease in the population. For further information, the reader is referred to a text on epidemiological methods. 1. Thromboembolic Disorders and Other Vascular Problems DOLISHALE is a non-cyclic oral contraceptive that provides a low daily dose of estrogen and progestin; however, DOLISHALE provides women with more hormonal exposure on a yearly basis (13 additional weeks of hormone intake per year) than conventional cyclic oral contraceptives containing the same strength of synthetic estrogens and similar strength of progestins. a. Myocardial Infarction An increased risk of myocardial infarction has been attributed to oral contraceptive use. This risk is primarily in smokers or women with other underlying risk factors for coronary-artery disease such as hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, morbid obesity, and diabetes. The relative risk of heart attack for current oral contraceptive users has been estimated to be two to six. The risk is very low under the age of 30. Smoking in combination with oral contraceptive use has been shown to contribute substantially to the incidence of myocardial infarction in women in their mid-thirties or older with smoking accounting for the majority of excess cases. Mortality rates associated with circulatory disease have been shown to increase substantially in smokers over the age of 35 and nonsmokers over the age of 40 (Figure 3) among women who use oral contraceptives. Figure 3: Circulatory Disease Mortality Rates per 100,000 Woman Years by Age, Smoking Status and Oral Contraceptive Use Oral contraceptives may compound the effects of well-known risk factors, such as hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemias, age, and obesity. In particular, some progestogens are known to decrease HDL cholesterol and cause glucose intolerance, while estrogens may create a state of hyperinsulinism. Oral contraceptives have been shown to increase blood pressure among users (see section 10 in WARNINGS ). Similar effects on risk factors have been associated with an increased risk of heart disease. Oral contraceptives must be used with caution in women with cardiovascular disease risk factors. b. Venous Thrombosis and Thromboembolism An increased risk of venous thromboembolic and thrombotic disease associated with the use of oral contraceptives is well established. The risk of venous thrombotic and thromboembolic events is further increased in women with conditions predisposing for venous thrombosis and thromboembolism. Case control studies have found the relative risk of users compared to non-users to be 3 for the first episode of superficial venous thrombosis, 4 to 11 for deep-vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism, and 1.5 to 6 for women with predisposing conditions for venous thromboembolic disease. Cohort studies have shown the relative risk to be somewhat lower, about 3 for new cases and about 4.5 for new cases requiring hospitalization. The approximate incidence of deep-vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in users of low dose (<0.05 mg ethinyl estradiol) combination oral contraceptives is up to 4 per 10,000 woman-years compared to 0.5 to 3 per 10,000 woman-years for non-users. However, the incidence is less than that associated with pregnancy (6 per 10,000 woman-years). The excess risk is highest during the first year a woman ever uses a combined oral contraceptive. Venous thromboembolism may be fatal. The risk of thromboembolic disease due to oral contraceptives is not related to length of use and gradually disappears after pill use is stopped. A post-marketing observational study evaluated the risk of venous thromboembolism with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets use in two large US automated healthcare claims databases. The study was not completed as planned due to low accrual of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets users in these databases and discontinuation of the product from the market due to low usage. At study discontinuation, the crude incidence rate of venous thromboembolism among levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets users (n=12,281) was 17.6 per 10,000 person- years, compared to 8.8 per 10,000 person-years among the users of cyclic oral contraceptives containing 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol and a progestogen, and 5.1 per 10,000 person-years among the users of cyclic oral contraceptives containing the progestin levonorgestrel and 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol. Adjustment for important risk factors or confounders (such as obesity, cardiovascular disease and other diseases) for venous thromboembolism could not be performed due to the small sample size. Although the study results suggest an elevated risk of venous thromboembolism with current levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets use compared to cyclic oral hormonal contraceptive use, reliable interpretation of the results is significantly limited due to the small sample size and concerns over unmeasured and uncontrolled confounding, as well as questions about the suitability of the comparator selection and the validity of the venous thromboembolism definition. A two-to-four fold increase in relative risk of postoperative thromboembolic complications has been reported with the use of oral contraceptives. The relative risk of venous thrombosis in women who have predisposing conditions is twice that of women without such medical conditions. If feasible, oral contraceptives should be discontinued at least four weeks prior to and for two weeks after elective surgery of a type associated with an increase in risk of thromboembolism and during and following prolonged immobilization. Since the immediate post-partum period is also associated with an increased risk of thromboembolism, oral contraceptives should be started no earlier than four weeks after delivery in women who elect not to breast-feed, or after a midtrimester pregnancy termination. c. Cerebrovascular Diseases Oral contraceptives have been shown to increase both the relative and attributable risks of cerebrovascular events (thrombotic and hemorrhagic strokes), although, in general, the risk is greatest among older (>35 years), hypertensive women who also smoke. Hypertension was found to be a risk factor for both users and nonusers, for both types of strokes, while smoking interacted to increase the risk for hemorrhagic strokes. Transient ischemic attacks have also been associated with oral contraceptive use. In a large study, the relative risk of thrombotic strokes has been shown to range from 3 for normotensive users to 14 for users with severe hypertension. The relative risk of hemorrhagic stroke is reported to be 1.2 for nonsmokers who used oral contraceptives, 2.6 for smokers who did not use oral contraceptives, 7.6 for smokers who used oral contraceptives, 1.8 for normotensive users and 25.7 for users with severe hypertension. The attributable risk is also greater in older women. Oral contraceptives also increase the risk for stroke in women with other underlying risk factors such as certain inherited or acquired thrombophilias. Women with migraine (particularly migraine/headaches with focal neurological symptoms such as aura) who take combination oral contraceptives may be at an increased risk of stroke. (See CONTRAINDICATIONS .) d. Dose-Related Risk of Vascular Disease From Oral Contraceptives A positive association has been observed between the amount of estrogen and progestogen in oral contraceptives and the risk of vascular disease. A decline in serum high-density lipoproteins (HDL) has been reported with many progestational agents. A decline in serum high-density lipoproteins has been associated with an increased incidence of ischemic heart disease. Because estrogens increase HDL cholesterol, the net effect of an oral contraceptive depends on a balance achieved between doses of estrogen and progestogen and the nature and absolute amount of progestogen used in the contraceptive. The amount of both hormones should be considered in the choice of an oral contraceptive. Minimizing exposure to estrogen and progestogen is in keeping with good principles of therapeutics. For any particular estrogen/progestogen combination, the dosage regimen prescribed should be one which contains the least amount of estrogen and progestogen that is compatible with a low failure rate and the needs of the individual patient. New acceptors of oral contraceptive agents should be started on preparations containing the lowest estrogen content which is judged appropriate for the individual patient. e. Persistence of Risk of Vascular Disease There are two studies which have shown persistence of risk of vascular disease for ever-users of oral contraceptives. In a study in the United States, the risk of developing myocardial infarction after discontinuing oral contraceptives persisted for at least 9 years for women 40 to 49 years who had used oral contraceptives for five or more years, but this increased risk was not demonstrated in other age groups. In another study in Great Britain, the risk of developing cerebrovascular disease persisted for at least 6 years after discontinuation of oral contraceptives, although excess risk was very small. However, both studies were performed with oral contraceptive formulations containing 0.05 mg or higher of estrogens. 2. Estimates of Mortality From Contraceptive Use One study gathered data from a variety of sources which have estimated the mortality rate associated with different methods of contraception at different ages (Table 3). These estimates include the combined risk of death associated with contraceptive methods plus the risk attributable to pregnancy in the event of method failure. Each method of contraception has its specific benefits and risks. The study concluded that with the exception of oral contraceptive users 35 and older who smoke and 40 and older who do not smoke, mortality associated with all methods of birth control is less than that associated with childbirth. The observation of a possible increase in risk of mortality with age for oral contraceptive users is based on data gathered in the 1970's — but not reported until 1983. However, current clinical practice involves the use of lower estrogen dose formulations combined with careful restriction of oral contraceptive use to women who do not have the various risk factors listed in this labeling. Because of these changes in practice, and also because of some limited new data which suggest that the risk of cardiovascular disease with the use of oral contraceptives may now be less than previously observed, the Fertility and Maternal Health Drugs Advisory Committee was asked to review the topic in 1989. The Committee concluded that although cardiovascular disease risks may be increased with oral contraceptive use after age 40 in healthy nonsmoking women (even with the newer low-dose formulations), there are greater potential health risks associated with pregnancy in older women and with the alternative surgical and medical procedures which may be necessary if such women do not have access to effective and acceptable means of contraception. Therefore, the Committee recommended that the benefits of oral contraceptive use by healthy nonsmoking women over 40 may outweigh the possible risks. Of course, older women, as all women who take oral contraceptives, should take the lowest possible dose formulation that is effective. Table 3: Annual Number of Birth-Related or Method-Related Deaths Associated with Control of Fertility per 100,000 Nonsterile Women, by Fertility-Control Method and According to Age Method of control and outcome 15 to 19 20 to 24 25 to 29 30 to 34 35 to 39 40 to 44 No fertility-control methods* 7.0 7.4 9.1 14.8 25.7 28.2 Oral contraceptives nonsmoker** 0.3 0.5 0.9 1.9 13.8 31.6 Oral contraceptives smoker** 2.2 3.4 6.6 13.5 51.1 117.2 IUD** 0.8 0.8 1.0 1.0 1.4 1.4 Condom* 1.1 1.6 0.7 0.2 0.3 0.4 Diaphragm/spermicide* 1.9 1.2 1.2 1.3 2.2 2.8 Periodic abstinence* 2.5 1.6 1.6 1.7 2.9 3.6 * Deaths are birth-related ** Deaths are method-related Adapted from H.W. Ory, Family Planning Perspectives, 15:57 to 63, 1983. 3. Malignant Neoplasms Breast Cancer DOLISHALE is contraindicated in females who currently have or have had breast cancer because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive [see Contraindications]. Epidemiology studies have not found a consistent association between use of combined oral contraceptives (COCs) and breast cancer risk. Studies do not show an association between ever (current or past) use of COCs and risk of breast cancer. However, some studies report a small increase in the risk of breast cancer among current or recent users (<6 months since last use) and current users with longer duration of COC use [see Postmarketing Experience]. Cervical Cancer Some studies suggest that oral contraceptive use has been associated with an increase in the risk of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia or invasive cervical cancer in some populations of women. However, there continues to be controversy about the extent to which such findings may be due to differences in sexual behavior and other factors. Endometrial biopsies performed in a subset of subjects (Study 1; n = 93) ages 18 to 49 years, after 6 to 12 months of use of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol, did not reveal any hyperplasias or malignancies. Endometrial malignancy is rare in this age group, so change in the risk is unlikely to be detected with a study of this size. 4. Hepatic Neoplasia Benign hepatic adenomas are associated with oral contraceptive use, although the incidence of these benign tumors is rare in the United States. Indirect calculations have estimated the attributable risk to be in the range of 3.3 cases/100,000 for users, a risk that increases after four or more years of use. Rupture of rare, benign, hepatic adenomas may cause death through intra-abdominal hemorrhage. Studies from Britain have shown an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma in long-term (>8 years) oral contraceptive user. However, these cancers are extremely rare in the U.S. and the attributable risk (the excess incidence) of liver cancers in oral contraceptive users approaches less than one per million users. 5. RISK OF LIVER ENZYME ELEVATIONS WITH CONCOMITANT HEPATITIS C TREATMENT During clinical trials with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen that contains ombitasvir/ paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, ALT elevations greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN), including some cases greater than 20 times the ULN, were significantly more frequent in women using ethinyl estradiol-containing medications such as COCs. Discontinue DOLISHALE prior to starting therapy with the combination drug regimen ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir [see Contraindications (4)] . DOLISHALE can be restarted approximately 2 weeks following completion of treatment with the combination drug regimen. 6. Ocular Lesions There have been clinical case reports of retinal thrombosis associated with the use of oral contraceptives that may lead to partial or complete loss of vision. Oral contraceptives should be discontinued if there is unexplained partial or complete loss of vision; onset of proptosis or diplopia; papilledema; or retinal vascular lesions. Appropriate diagnostic and therapeutic measures should be undertaken immediately. 7. Oral Contraceptive Use Before or During Early Pregnancy Extensive epidemiological studies have revealed no increased risk of birth defects in infants born to women who have used oral contraceptives prior to pregnancy. Studies also do not suggest a teratogenic effect, particularly insofar as cardiac anomalies and limb-reduction defects are concerned, when taken inadvertently during early pregnancy (see CONTRAINDICATIONS section). The administration of oral contraceptives to induce withdrawal bleeding should not be used as a test for pregnancy. Oral contraceptives should not be used during pregnancy to treat threatened or habitual abortion. The possibility of pregnancy should be considered in any patient who may be experiencing symptoms of pregnancy, especially if she has not adhered to the prescribed schedule. Oral-contraceptive use must be discontinued if pregnancy is confirmed. 8. Gallbladder Disease Combination oral contraceptives may worsen existing gallbladder disease and may accelerate the development of this disease in previously asymptomatic women. Earlier studies have reported an increased lifetime relative risk of gallbladder surgery in users of oral contraceptives and estrogens. More recent studies, however, have shown that the relative risk of developing gallbladder disease among oral contraceptive users may be minimal. The recent findings of minimal risk may be related to the use of oral contraceptive formulations containing lower hormonal doses of estrogens and progestogens. 9. Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Oral contraceptives have been shown to cause glucose intolerance in a significant percentage of users. Oral contraceptives containing greater than 0.075 mg of estrogens cause hyperinsulinism, while lower doses of estrogen cause less glucose intolerance. Progestogens increase insulin secretion and create insulin resistance, this effect varying with different progestational agents. However, in the nondiabetic woman, oral contraceptives appear to have no effect on fasting blood glucose. Because of these demonstrated effects, prediabetic and diabetic women should be carefully observed while taking oral contraceptives. A small proportion of women will have persistent hypertriglyceridemia while on the pill. As discussed earlier (see WARNINGS , 1a. and 1d.; PRECAUTIONS , 3.), changes in serum triglycerides and lipoprotein levels have been reported in oral contraceptive users. 10. Elevated Blood Pressure An increase in blood pressure has been reported in women taking oral contraceptives and this increase is more likely in older oral contraceptive users and with continued use. Data from the Royal College of General Practitioners and subsequent randomized trials have shown that the incidence of hypertension increases with increasing quantities of progestogens. Women with a history of hypertension or hypertension-related diseases, or renal disease should be encouraged to use another method of contraception. If women with hypertension elect to use oral contraceptives, they should be monitored closely and if significant elevation of blood pressure occurs, oral contraceptives should be discontinued (see CONTRAINDICATIONS section). For most women, elevated blood pressure will return to normal after stopping oral contraceptives, and there is no difference in the occurrence of hypertension among ever- and never-users. 11. Headache The onset or exacerbation of migraine or development of headache with a new pattern that is recurrent, persistent, or severe requires discontinuation of oral contraceptives and evaluation of the cause. (See WARNINGS , 1c. and CONTRAINDICATIONS .) 12. Bleeding Irregularities When prescribing DOLISHALE, the convenience of having no scheduled menstrual bleeding should be weighed against the inconvenience of unscheduled breakthrough bleeding and spotting. In Study 313-NA, 385/2,134 (18%) of women discontinued prematurely due to bleeding that was reported either as an adverse event or where bleeding was given as one of the reasons for discontinuation (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE , Clinical Studies ). Figure 4 shows the percentage of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol subjects in study 313-NA by pill pack who experienced unscheduled bleeding or spotting only (Defined as "No sanitary protection required"). Figure 5 shows the percentage of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablet subjects with complete bleeding data in Study 313-NA who had 4 or more and 7 or more days of bleeding and/or spotting during each pill pack cycle. During pill pack 2, 67% of subjects experienced 4 or more days of bleeding and/or spotting and 54% of these subjects experienced 7 or more days of bleeding and/or spotting. During the final cycle of use of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol (pill pack 13), these percentages were 31% and 20%, respectively. As in any case of bleeding irregularities, nonhormonal causes should be considered and adequate diagnostic measures may be indicated to rule out pregnancy, infection, malignancy, or other conditions. Some women may encounter post-pill amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea (possibly with anovulation), especially when such a condition was preexistent. 13. Ectopic Pregnancy Ectopic as well as intrauterine pregnancy may occur in contraceptive failures. Image Image Image Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to levonorgestrel Sexually transmitted disease (STDs) alert: This product does not protect against HIV/AIDS or other STDs Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to levonorgestrel Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) alert: This product does not protect against HIV/AIDS or other STDs Allergy Alert: Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to levonorgestrel Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) alert: This product does not protect against HIV/AIDS or other STDs Do not use If you are already pregnant (because it will not work) For regular birth control Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are Taking efavirenz (HIV medication) or rifampin (tuberculosis treatment) or medication for seizures (epilepsy). When using this product you may have Menstrual changes Tiredness Breast pain Nausea Headache Vomiting Lower stomach (abdominal) pain Dizziness Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Warnings Allergy alert Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to levonorgestrel Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) alert This product does not protect against HIV/AIDS or other STDs. Do not use • if you are already pregnant (because it will not work) • for regular bir th control Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking efavirenz (HIV medication) or rifampin (tuberculosis treatment) or medication for seizures (epilepsy). When using this product you may have • menstrual changes • tiredness • dizziness • nausea • headache • breast pain • lower stomach (abdominal) pain • vomiting Keep out of reach of children.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Iclevia is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions: A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases. Examples include females who are known to: Smoke, if over age 35 [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Have current or history of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Have cerebrovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Have coronary artery disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart (for example, subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease, or atrial fibrillation) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Have uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Have diabetes mellitus and are over age of 35, diabetes mellitus with hypertension or vascular disease or other end-organ damage, or diabetes mellitus of >20 years duration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms, migraine headaches with aura, or over age 35 with any migraine headaches [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Current diagnosis of, or history of breast cancer, which may be hormone sensitive [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ]. Liver tumors, acute viral hepatitis, or severe (decompensated) cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) Liver tumors or liver disease, acute viral hepatitis or decompensated cirrhosis ( 4 ) Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) Breast cancer ( 4 ) Co-administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir. ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Combination oral contraceptives should not be used in women with any of the following conditions: • Thrombophlebitis or thromboembolic disorders • History of deep-vein thrombophlebitis or thromboembolic disorders • Cerebrovascular or coronary artery disease (current or past history) • Valvular heart disease with thrombogenic complications • Thrombogenic rhythm disorders • Hereditary or acquired thrombophilias • Major surgery with prolonged immobilization • Diabetes with vascular involvement • Headaches with focal neurological symptoms such as aura • Uncontrolled hypertension • Current diagnosis of, or history of, breast cancer, which may be hormone-sensitive • Carcinoma of the endometrium or other known or suspected estrogen-dependent neoplasia Undiagnosed abnormal genital bleeding • Cholestatic jaundice of pregnancy or jaundice with prior pill use • Hepatic adenomas or carcinomas, or active liver disease • Known or suspected pregnancy • Hypersensitivity to any of the components of DOLISHALE • Are receiving Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for ALT elevations (see Warnings, RISK OF LIVER ENZYME ELEVATIONS WITH CONCOMITANT HEPATITIS C TREATMENT ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS CAMRESE is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions: A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases. Examples include females who are known to: Smoke, if over age 35 [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Have current or history of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Have cerebrovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Have coronary artery disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart (for example, subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease, or atrial fibrillation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Have uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Have diabetes mellitus and are over age 35, diabetes mellitus with hypertension or with vascular disease or other end-organ damage, or diabetes mellitus of > 20 years duration [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )]. Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms, migraine headaches with aura, or over age 35 with any migraine headaches [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )]. Current diagnosis of, or history of, breast cancer, which may be hormone sensitive [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )]. Liver tumors, acute viral hepatitis, or severe (decompensated) cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )]. Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) Breast cancer ( 4 ) Liver tumors or liver disease, acute viral hepatitis or decompensated cirrhosis ( 4 ) Co-administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir.( 4 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The sections below provide information on substances for which data on drug interactions with COCs are available. There is little information available about the clinical effect of most drug interactions that may affect COCs. However, based on the known pharmacokinetic effects of these drugs, clinical strategies to minimize any potential adverse effect on contraceptive effectiveness or safety are suggested. Consult the approved product labeling of all concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with COCs or the potential for metabolic enzyme or transporter system alterations. No drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets. Enzyme inducers (e.g.CYP3A4): May decrease the effectiveness of Iclevia or increase breakthrough bleeding. Counsel patients to use a back-up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with Iclevia. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances decreasing the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminishing the efficacy of COCs: Table 5 includes substances that demonstrated an important drug interaction with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets. Table 5: Significant Drug Interactions Involving Substances That Affect COCs a Induction potency of St. John’s wort may vary widely based on preparation. Metabolic Enzyme Inducers Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with metabolic enzyme inducers may decrease the plasma concentrations of the estrogen and/or progestin component of COCs. Decreased exposure of the estrogen and/or progestin component of COCs may potentially diminish the effectiveness of COCs and may lead to contraceptive failure or an increase in breakthrough bleeding. Prevention or management Counsel females to use an alternative method of contraception or a backup method when enzyme inducers are used with COCs. Continue backup contraception for 28 days after discontinuing the enzyme inducer to maintain contraceptive reliability. Examples Aprepitant, barbiturates, bosentan, carbamazepine, efavirenz, felbamate, griseofulvin, oxcarbazepine, phenytoin, rifampin, rifabutin, rufinamide, topiramate, products containing St. John’s wort a , and certain protease inhibitors (see separate section on protease inhibitors below). Colesevelam Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with colesevelam significantly decreases systemic exposure of ethinyl estradiol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Decreased exposure of the estrogen component of COCs may potentially reduce contraceptive efficacy or result in an increase in breakthrough bleeding, depending on the strength of ethinyl estradiol in the COC. Prevention or management Administer 4 or more hours apart to attenuate this drug interaction. Substances increasing the systemic exposure of COCs: Co-administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and certain COCs containing ethinyl estradiol (EE) increase AUC values for EE by approximately 20 to 25%. Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase systemic exposure of EE possibly by inhibition of conjugation. CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole, voriconazole, fluconazole, grapefruit juice, or ketoconazole may increase systemic exposure of estrogen and/or progestin component of COCs. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/ Hepatitis C virus (HCV) protease inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors: Significant decreases in systemic exposure of the estrogen and/or progestin have been noted when COCs are co-administered with some HIV protease inhibitors (e.g., nelfinavir, ritonavir, darunavir/ritonavir, (fos)amprenavir/ritonavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, and tipranavir/ritonavir] or some HCV protease inhibitors (e.g. boceprevir and telaprevir) and some non-nucleosidase reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g. nevirapine) In contrast, significant increases in systemic exposure of the estrogen and/or progestin have been noted when COCs are co-administered with certain other HIV protease inhibitors (e.g. indinavir and atazanavir/ritonavir) and with other non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g. etravirine). 7.2 Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs Table 6 provides significant drug interaction information for drugs co-administered with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets. Table 6: Significant Drug Interaction Information for Drugs Co-Administered With COCs Lamotrigine Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with lamotrigine may significantly decrease systemic exposure of lamotrigine due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Decreased systemic exposure of lamotrigine may reduce seizure control. Prevention or management Dose adjustment may be necessary. Consult the approved product labeling for lamotrigine. Thyroid Hormone Replacement Therapy or Corticosteroid Replacement Therapy Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with thyroid hormone replacement therapy or corticosteroid replacement therapy may increase systemic exposure of thyroid-binding and cortisol-binding globulin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . Prevention or management The dose of replacement thyroid hormone or cortisol therapy may need to be increased. Consult the approved product labeling for the therapy in use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . Other Drugs Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs may decrease systemic exposure of acetaminophen, morphine, salicylic acid, and temazepam. Concomitant use with ethinyl estradiol-containing COCs may increase systemic exposure of other drugs (e.g., cyclosporine, prednisolone, theophylline, tizanidine, and voriconazole). Prevention or management The dosage of drugs that can be affected by this interaction may need to be increased. Consult the approved product labeling for the concomitantly used drug. 7.3 Concomitant Use with Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) Combination Therapy-Liver Enzyme Elevation Co-administration of Iclevia with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir is contraindicated due to potential for ALT elevations [see Warning and Precautions (5.3) ]. Co-administration of Iclevia and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir is not recommended due to potential for ALT elevations. 7.4 Effect on Laboratory Tests The use of COCs may influence the results of certain laboratory tests, such as coagulation factors, lipids, glucose tolerance, and binding proteins. No drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with CAMRESE. Enzyme inducers (e.g., CYP3A4): May decrease the effectiveness of CAMRESE or increase breakthrough bleeding. Counsel patients to use a backup method or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with CAMRESE. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances Decreasing the Plasma Concentrations of COCs and Potentially Diminishing the Efficacy of COCs: Table 4 includes substances that demonstrated an important drug interaction with CAMRESE. Table 4: Significant Drug Interactions Involving Substances That Affect COCs Metabolic Enzyme Inducers Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with metabolic enzyme inducers may decrease the plasma concentrations of the estrogen and/or progestin component of COCs. Colesevelam Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with colesevelam significantly decreases systemic exposure of ethinyl estradiol. Decreased exposure of the estrogen component of COCs may potentially reduce contraceptive efficacy or result in an increase in breakthrough bleeding, depending on the strength of ethinyl estradiol in the CHC. a Induction potency of St. Substances increasing the systemic exposure of COCs: Co-administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and COCs containing ethinyl estradiol increase systemic exposure of ethinyl estradiol by approximately 20 to 25 percent. Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase systemic exposure of ethinyl estradiol, possibly by inhibition of conjugation. CYP3A inhibitors such as itraconazole, voriconazole, fluconazole, grapefruit juice, or ketoconazole may increase systemic exposure of the estrogen and/or progestin component of COCs. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/hepatitis C virus (HCV) protease inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors: Significant decreases in systemic exposure of the estrogen and/or progestin have been noted when COCs are co-administered with some HIV protease inhibitors (e.g., nelfinavir, ritonavir, darunavir/ritonavir, (fos)amprenavir/ritonavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, and tipranavir/ritonavir), some HCV protease inhibitors (e.g., boceprevir and telaprevir), and some non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g., nevirapine). In contrast, significant increases in systemic exposure of the estrogen and/or progestin have been noted when COCs are co-administered with certain other HIV protease inhibitors (e.g., indinavir and atazanavir/ritonavir) and with other non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g., etravirine). 7.2 Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs Table 5 provides significant drug interaction information for drugs co-administered with CAMRESE. Table 5: Significant Drug Interaction Information for Drugs Co-Administered With COCs Lamotrigine Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with lamotrigine may significantly decrease systemic exposure of lamotrigine due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation. Thyroid Hormone Replacement Therapy or Corticosteroid Replacement Therapy Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with thyroid hormone replacement therapy or corticosteroid replacement therapy may increase systemic exposure of thyroid-binding and cortisol-binding globulin [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] . Consult the approved product labeling for the therapy in use [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] . 7.3 Concomitant Use with Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Co-administration of CAMRESE with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir is contraindicated due to potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . Co-administration of CAMRESE and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir is not recommended due to potential for ALT elevations.

=== MAGNESIUM CITRATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Saline laxative Purpose Saline Laxtive
Indications: Uses: • For relief of occasional constipation (irregularity). • Generally produces bowel movement in ½ to 6 hours Uses for relief of occasional constipation (irregularity). Generally produces bowel movement in 1/2 to 6 hours Indications and Usage: Folcyteine™ is indicated to provide vitamin supplement to men and women. Folic acid is effective in the treatment of megaloblastic anemias due to a deficiency of folic acid (as may be seen in tropical or nontropical sprue) and in anemias of nutritional origin, pregnancy, infancy, or childhood Use for relief of occasional constipation (irregularity). INDICATIONS AND USAGE: Livita™ liquid is indicated to provide significant amounts of essential vitamins and minerals, including Vitamins A, C, D, E, thiamine, riboflavin, niacin, vitamin B6, vitamin B12, folate, calcium, magnesium, and zinc, to supplement the diet. This comprehensive nutrient profile helps prevent nutritional deficiencies of these vitamins and minerals, ensuring that the specific dietary needs of adults and children are met to support overall health, energy, and vitality. The product is specially formulated to target common vitamin and mineral gaps in adults, thus promoting optimal health, immune function, bone strength, and metabolic balance. It is intended to be used under the guidance of a licensed healthcare practitioner to ensure that any potential for nutritional deficiency is addressed in a manner that supports the individual's overall health and wellbeing. Generally produese bowel movement in 1/2 to 6 hours.
Dosage: Directions: • shake well before using • drink a full glass (8 ounces) of liquid with each dose • may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses adults and children 12 years of age and over 6.5 to 10 fl oz maximum 10 fl oz in 24 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age 3 to 7 fl oz maximum 7 fl oz in 24 hours children 2 to under 6 years of age 2 to 3 fl oz maximum 3 fl oz in 24 hours children under 2 years of age ask a doctor Directions shake well before using drink a full glass (8 ounces) of liquid with each dose may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses adults and children 12 years of age and over - 6.5 to 10 fl oz in 24 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age - 3 to 7 fl oz maximum 7 fl oz in 24 hours children 2 to under 6 years of age - 2 to 3 fl oz in 24 hours children under 2 years of age - ask a doctor Dosage and Administration: One (1) Folcyteine™ caplet daily or as directed by a physician. Do not administer to children under the age of 12. Directions shake well before using drink a full glass (8 ounces) of liquid with each dose may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses adults and children 12 years of age and over - 6.5 to 10 fl oz maximum 10 fl oz in 24 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age - 3 to 7 fl oz maximum 7 fl oz in 24 hours children 2 to under 6 years of age - 2 to 3 fl oz maximum 3 fl oz in 24 hours children under 2 years of age - ask a doctor Directions shake well before using drink a full glass (8 ounces) of liquid with each dose may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses adults and children 12 years of age and over - 6.5 to 10 fl oz maximum 10 fl oz in 24 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age - 3 to 7 fl oz maximum 7 fl oz in 24 hours children 2 to under 6 years of age - 2 to 3 fl oz in 24 hours maximum 3 fl oz in 24 hours children under 2 years of age - ask a doctor Dosage and Administration: Livita™ Liquid Multivitamin for Children: The usual child dose is 1-2 teaspoons or 5-10 mL daily. Or as prescribed by a licensed healthcare practitioner. Directions shake well before using drink a full glass (8 ounces) of liquid with each dose may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses adults and children 12 years of age and over 6.5 to 10 fl oz maximum 10 fl oz in 24 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age 3 to 7 fl oz maximum 7 fl oz in 24 hours children 2 to under 6 years of age 2 to 3 fl oz maximum 3 fl oz in 24 hours children under 2 years of age ask a doctor
Warnings: Warnings: Ask a doctor before use if you have • Kidney disease • a magnesium restricted diet • Abdominal pain, nausea, or vomiting • Noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks • Already used a laxative for a period longer than 1 week Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • Taking any other drug. • Take this product 2 or more hours before or after other drugs. Laxatives may affect how other drugs work. Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use. These could be signs of a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings for this product Warnings kidney disease a magnesium restricted diet abdorominal pain, nausea, or vomiting noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks already used a laxative for a period longer than 1 week WARNING: In case of accidental overdose, seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. Precaution Section Folate doses above 0.1 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia, in that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. There is a potential danger in administering folate to patients with undiagnosed anemia since folate may obscure the diagnosis of pernicious anemia by alleviating the hematologic manifestations of the disease while allowing the neurologic complications to progress. This may result in severe nervous system damage before the correct diagnosis is made. Adequate doses of vitamin B12 may prevent, halt, or improve the neurologic changes caused by pernicious anemia. The patient’s medical conditions and consumption of other drugs, herbs, and/or supplements should be considered. For use on the order of a licensed healthcare practitioner. Call your doctor about side effects. To report side effects, call PureTek Corporation at 1-877-921-7873 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. Adverse Reactions: Folate: Allergic sensitizations have been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folate. Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals but generally at levels substantially higher than those contained herein. However, allergic, and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at lower levels. Warnings: Ask a doctor before use if you have Kidney disease a magnesium restricted diet Abdominal pain, nausea, or vomting Noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks Already used a laxative for a period longer than 1 week Ask a doctor or pharmacits before use if you are Taking any other drug. Take this product 2 or more hours before or after other drugs. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact Poison Control Centre right away. Store at temparatue between 46º and 86º F (8º and 30º)
Contraindications: Contraindications: This product is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients. Folcyteine™ is contraindicated in patients with hypercalcemia, malabsorption syndrome, abnormal sensitivity to the toxic effects of vitamin D, and hypervitaminosis D. Contraindications: This product is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its ingredients.

=== PENICILLIN V POTASSIUM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of penicillin V potassium and other antibacterial drugs, penicillin V potassium should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. Penicillin V potassium tablets are indicated in the treatment of mild to moderately severe infections due to penicillin G-sensitive microorganisms. Therapy should be guided by bacteriologic studies (including sensitivity tests) and by clinical response. NOTE: Severe pneumonia, empyema, bacteremia, pericarditis, meningitis, and arthritis should not be treated with penicillin V during the acute stage. Indicated surgical procedures should be performed. The following infections will usually respond to adequate dosage of penicillin V. Streptococcal Infections (without bacteremia) Mild-to-moderate infections of the upper respiratory tract, scarlet fever, and mild erysipelas. NOTE: Streptococci in groups A, C, G, H, L, and M are very sensitive to penicillin. Other groups, including group D (enterococcus), are resistant. Pneumococcal Infections Mild to moderately severe infections of the respiratory tract. Staphylococcal infections– penicillin G-sensitive Mild infections of the skin and soft tissues. NOTE: Reports indicate an increasing number of strains of staphylococci resistant to penicillin G, emphasizing the need for culture and sensitivity studies in treating suspected staphylococcal infections. Fusospirochetosis (Vincent’s gingivitis and pharyngitis) Mild to moderately severe infections of the oropharynx usually respond to therapy with oral penicillin. NOTE: Necessary dental care should be accomplished in infections involving the gum tissue. Medical conditions in which oral penicillin therapy is indicated as prophylaxis: For the prevention of recurrence following rheumatic fever and/or chorea: Prophylaxis with oral penicillin on a continuing basis has proven effective in preventing recurrence of these conditions. Although no controlled clinical efficacy studies have been conducted, penicillin V has been suggested by the American Heart Association and the American Dental Association for use as an oral regimen for prophylaxis against bacterial endocarditis in patients who have congenital heart disease or rheumatic or other acquired valvular heart disease when they undergo dental procedures and surgical procedures of the upper respiratory tract 1 . Oral penicillin should not be used in those patients at particularly high risk for endocarditis (e.g., those with prosthetic heart valves or surgically constructed systemic pulmonary shunts). Penicillin V should not be used as adjunctive prophylaxis for genitourinary instrumentation or surgery, lower-intestinal tract surgery, sigmoidoscopy, and childbirth. Since it may happen that alpha hemolytic streptococci relatively resistant to penicillin may be found when patients are receiving continuous oral penicillin for secondary prevention of rheumatic fever, prophylactic agents other than penicillin may be chosen for these patients and prescribed in addition to their continuous rheumatic fever prophylactic regimen. NOTE: When selecting antibiotics for the prevention of bacterial endocarditis, the physician or dentist should read the full joint statement of the American Heart Association and the American Dental Association 1 . Staphylococcal infections – penicillin G-sensitive Mild infections of the skin and soft tissues. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Penicillin V potassium tablets and penicillin V potassium for oral solution are indicated in the treatment of mild to moderately severe infections due to penicillin G-sensitive microorganisms. Therapy should be guided by bacteriological studies (including sensitivity tests) and by clinical response. Streptococcal infections (without bacteremia). Mild-to-moderate infections of the upper respiratory tract, scarlet fever, and mild erysipelas. Pneumococcal infections. Mild to moderately severe infections of the respiratory tract. Staphylococcal infections —penicillin G-sensitive. Mild infections of the skin and soft tissues. Fusospirochetosis (Vincent's gingivitis and pharyngitis)—Mild to moderately severe infections of the oropharynx usually respond to therapy with oral penicillin. Although no controlled clinical efficacy studies have been conducted, penicillin V has been suggested by the American Heart Association and the American Dental Association for use as an oral regimen for prophylaxis against bacterial endocarditis in patients who have congenital heart disease or rheumatic or other acquired valvular heart disease when they undergo dental procedures and surgical procedures of the upper respiratory tract. 1 Oral penicillin should not be used in those patients at particularly high risk for endocarditis (e.g., those with prosthetic heart valves or surgically constructed systemic pulmonary shunts). NOTE: When selecting antibiotics for the prevention of bacterial endocarditis, the physician or dentist should read the full joint statement of the American Heart Association and the American Dental Association. 1 To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of penicillin V potassium tablets, penicillin V potassium for oral solution, and other antibacterial drugs, penicillin V potassium tablets and penicillin V potassium for oral solution should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of Penicillin V should be determined according to the sensitivity of the causative microorganisms and the severity of infection, and adjusted to the clinical response of the patient. The usual dosage recommendations for adults and children 12 years and over are as follows: Streptococcal Infections Mild to moderately severe - of the upper respiratory tract and including scarlet fever and erysipelas: 125 to 250 mg (200,000 to 400,000 units) every 6 to 8 hours for 10 days. Pneumococcal Infections Mild to moderately severe - of the respiratory tract, including otitis media: 250 to 500 mg (400,000 to 800,000 units) every 6 hours until the patient has been afebrile for at least 2 days. Staphylococcal Infections Mild infections of skin and soft tissue (culture and sensitive tests should be performed): 250 to 500 mg (400,000 to 800,000 units) every 6 to 8 hours. Fusospirochetosis (Vincent’s infection) of the oropharynx. Mild to moderately severe infections: 250 to 500 mg (400,000 to 800,000 units) every 6 to 8 hours. For the prevention of recurrence following rheumatic fever and/or chorea: 125 mg to 250 mg (200,000 to 400,000 units) twice daily on a continuing basis. For prophylaxis against bacterial endocarditis 1 in patients with congenital heart disease or rheumatic or other acquired valvular heart disease when undergoing dental procedures or surgical procedures of the upper respiratory tract: 2 gram of penicillin V (1 gram for children under 60 lbs.) 1 hour before the procedure, and then, 1 gram (500 mg for children under 60 lbs.) 6 hours later. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of penicillin V potassium tablets and penicillin V potassium for oral solution should be determined according to the sensitivity of the causative microorganisms and the severity of infection, and adjusted to the clinical response of the patient. The usual dosage recommendations for adults and children 12 years and over are as follows: Streptococcal infections —mild to moderately severe—of the upper respiratory tract and including scarlet fever and erysipelas: 125 to 250 mg (200,000 to 400,000 units) every 6 to 8 hours for 10 days. Pneumococcal infections —mild to moderately severe—of the respiratory tract, including otitis media: 250 to 500 mg (400,000 to 800,000 units) every 6 hours until the patient has been afebrile for at least 2 days. Staphylococcal infections —mild infections of skin and soft tissue (culture and sensitivity tests should be performed): 250 to 500 mg (400,000 to 800,000 units) every 6 to 8 hours. For the prevention of recurrence following rheumatic fever and/or chorea: 125 to 250 mg (200,000 to 400,000 units) twice daily on a continuing basis. Directions for Mixing Oral Solution Do not add water until you dispense. When dispensing, tap bottle until all powder flows freely, slowly add the total amount of water for reconstitution (see table below). After partially filling bottle, replace cap and shake vigorously. Add remaining water and repeat shaking. After reconstitution, solution must be stored in a refrigerator. Discard any unused portion after 14 days. 125 mg/5 mL Bottle size Total Amount of Water Required for Reconstitution 100 mL 75 mL 200 mL 150 mL The resulting solution (red in color) will contain penicillin V potassium equivalent to penicillin V 125 mg (200,000 units) in each 5 mL (teaspoonful). 250 mg/5 mL Bottle size Total Amount of Water Required for Reconstitution 100 mL 75 mL 200 mL 150 mL The resulting solution (red in color) will contain penicillin V potassium equivalent to penicillin V 250 mg (400,000 units) in each 5 mL (teaspoonful). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of Penicillin V should be determined according to the sensitivity of the causative microorganism and the severity of infection, and adjusted to the clinical response of the patient.
Warnings: WARNINGS SERIOUS AND OCCASIONALLY FATAL HYPERSENSITIVITY (anaphylactic) REACTIONS HAVE BEEN REPORTED IN PATIENTS ON PENICILLIN THERAPY. THESE REACTIONS ARE MORE LIKELY TO OCCUR IN INDIVIDUALS WITH A HISTORY OF PENICILLIN HYPERSENSITIVITY AND/OR A HISTORY OF SENSITIVITY TO MULTIPLE ALLERGENS. THERE HAVE BEEN REPORTS OF INDIVIDUALS WITH A HISTORY OF PENICILLIN HYPERSENSITIVITY WHO HAVE EXPERIENCED SEVERE REACTIONS WHEN TREATED WITH CEPHALOSPORINS. BEFORE INITIATING THERAPY WITH PENICILLIN V POTASSIUM TABLETS, CAREFUL INQUIRY SHOULD BE MADE CONCERNING PREVIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO PENICILLINS, CEPHALOSPORINS, OR OTHER ALLERGENS. IF AN ALLERGIC REACTION OCCURS, PENICILLIN V POTASSIUM TABLETS SHOULD BE DISCONTINUED AND APPROPRIATE THERAPY INSTITUTED. SERIOUS ANAPHYLACTIC REACTIONS REQUIRE IMMEDIATE EMERGENCY TREATMENT WITH EPINEPHRINE. OXYGEN, INTRAVENOUS STEROIDS, AND AIRWAY MANAGEMENT, INCLUDING INTUBATION, SHOULD ALSO BE ADMINISTERED AS INDICATED. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including penicillin V potassium tablets, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C. difficile . C. difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD. Hypertoxin producing strains of C. difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality, as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use. Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents. If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C. difficile may need to be discontinued. Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibiotic treatment of C. difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. BEFORE INITIATING THERAPY WITH PENICILLIN V POTASSIUM, CAREFUL INQUIRY SHOULD BE MADE CONCERNING PREVIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO PENICILLINS, CEPHALOSPORINS, OR OTHER ALLERGENS. IF AN ALLERGIC REACTION OCCURS, PENICILLIN V POTASSIUM SHOULD BE DISCONTINUED AND APPROPRIATE THERAPY INSTITUTED. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including penicillin V potassium tablets and penicillin V potassium for oral solution, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS A previous hypersensitivity reaction to any penicillin is a contraindication.

=== TRETINOIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tretinoin capsules are indicated for the induction of remission in adults and pediatric patients 1 year of age and older with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) characterized by the presence of the t(15;17) translocation or PML/RARα gene expression, and who are refractory to or who have relapsed from anthracycline chemotherapy or for whom anthracycline-based chemotherapy is contraindicated. Tretinoin capsules are a retinoid indicated for induction of remission in adults and pediatric patients 1 year of age and older with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), characterized by presence of t(15;17) translocation or presence of PML/RARα gene expression, and who are refractory to or who have relapsed from anthracycline chemotherapy or for whom anthracycline-based chemotherapy is contraindicated. Indications and Usage Tretinoin is indicated for topical application in the treatment of acne vulgaris. The safety and efficacy of the long-term use of this product in the treatment of other disorders have not been established. Indications and Usage Tretinoin cream is indicated for topical application in the treatment of acne vulgaris. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE RETIN-A MICRO ® is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older. RETIN-A MICRO is a retinoid indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older. ( 1) Indications and Usage: Tretinoin gel and cream are indicated for topical application in the treatment of acne vulgaris. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ALTRENO ® (tretinoin) lotion, 0.05% is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 9 years of age and older. ALTRENO is a retinoid indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 9 years of age and older. (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 12 years or older. Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel is a lincosamide antibiotic and retinoid combination product indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 12 years or older. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE TWYNEO is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in adults and pediatric patients 9 years of age and older. TWYNEO is a combination tretinoin, a retinoid, and benzoyl peroxide indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in adults and pediatric patients 9 years of age and older.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The recommended dosage of tretinoin capsules is 22.5 mg/m 2 orally twice daily until complete remission. ( 2.2 ) • Discontinue 30 days after achievement of complete remission or after 90 days of treatment, whichever occurs first. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Important Safety Information Verify pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential prior to initiating tretinoin capsules. Females of reproductive potential must have a negative pregnancy test before initiating tretinoin capsules [see Use in Specific Populations (8.3)] . 2.2 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage of tretinoin capsules is 22.5 mg/m 2 orally twice daily until complete remission is documented. Discontinue tretinoin capsules 30 days after achievement of complete remission or after 90 days of treatment, whichever occurs first. Discontinue tretinoin capsules if the t(15;17) translocation or PML/RARα fusion has not been identified [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] . Take tretinoin capsules with a meal. Swallow tretinoin capsules whole with water. Do not chew, dissolve, or open capsule. Do not take a missed dose of tretinoin capsules unless it is more than 10 hours until the next scheduled dose. If vomiting occurs after tretinoin capsules administration, do not take an additional dose, but continue with the next scheduled dose. 2.1 Important Safety Information Verify pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential prior to initiating tretinoin capsules. Dosage and Administration Tretinoin Cream or Tretinoin Gel should be applied once a day, before retiring, to the skin where acne lesions appear, using enough to cover the entire affected area lightly. Gel: Excessive application results in “pilling” of the gel, which minimizes the likelihood of overapplication by the patient. Application may cause a transitory feeling of warmth or slight stinging. In cases where it has been necessary to temporarily discontinue therapy or to reduce the frequency of application, therapy may be resumed or frequency of application increased when the patients become able to tolerate the treatment. Alterations of vehicle, drug concentration, or dose frequency should be closely monitored by careful observation of the clinical therapeutic response and skin tolerance. During the early weeks of therapy, an apparent exacerbation of inflammatory lesions may occur. This is due to the action of the medication on deep, previously unseen lesions and should not be considered a reason to discontinue therapy. Therapeutic results should be noticed after 2 to 3 weeks but more than 6 weeks of therapy may be required before definite beneficial effects are seen. Once the acne lesions have responded satisfactorily, it may be possible to maintain the improvement with less frequent applications, or other dosage forms. Patients treated with tretinoin acne treatment may use cosmetics, but the area to be treated should be cleansed thoroughly before the medication is applied (see PRECAUTIONS ). Dosage and Administration Tretinoin cream should be applied once a day, before retiring, to the skin where acne lesions appear, using enough to cover the entire affected area lightly. Alteration of vehicle, drug concentration, or dose frequency should be closely monitored by careful observation of the clinical therapeutic response and skin tolerance. Therapeutic results should be noticed after two to three weeks but more than six weeks of therapy may be required before definite beneficial effects are seen. Patients treated with tretinoin acne treatment may use cosmetics, but the area to be treated should be cleansed thoroughly before the medication is applied. (See Precautions ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For topical use only. Not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. • Prior to RETIN-A MICRO use, thoroughly cleanse area(s) with a mild, non-medicated cleanser then pat the skin dry. • When applying RETIN-A MICRO, keep away from the eyes, the mouth, paranasal creases of the nose, and mucous membranes. • Apply a thin layer of RETIN-A MICRO (0.04%, 0.06%, 0.08%, or 0.1%) to skin where acne lesions appear (cover the entire affected area), once daily in the evening. Do not apply more than a thin layer [see Warning and Precautions (5.1) ] . Improvements in acne lesions may be noticed after two weeks of RETIN-A MICRO therapy, but more than seven weeks of therapy may be needed for sustained benefit. If RETIN-A MICRO was temporarily discontinued due to local adverse reactions, RETIN-A MICRO therapy may be resumed upon resolution of local adverse reactions. • For topical use only. ( 2 ) • Keep away from eyes, mouth, paranasal creases of the nose, and mucous membranes. ( 2 ) • Apply a thin layer of RETIN-A MICRO to skin where acne lesions appear (cover the entire affected area) (0.04%, 0.06%, 0.08%, or 0.1%) once daily in the evening ( 2 ). Dosage and Administration: Tretinoin gel or cream should be applied once a day, before retiring, to the skin where acne lesions appear, using enough to cover the entire affected area lightly. Gel: Excessive application results in “pilling” of the gel, which minimizes the likelihood of over application by the patient. Patients treated with tretinoin preparations may use cosmetics, but the areas to be treated should be cleansed thoroughly before the medication is applied ( see Precautions ). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin layer of ALTRENO to the affected areas once daily. Avoid the eyes, mouth, paranasal creases, and mucous membranes. ALTRENO is for topical use only. Not for ophthalmic, oral, or intravaginal use. • Apply a thin layer of ALTRENO to affected areas once daily. Avoid eyes, mouth, paranasal creases, and mucous membranes. ( 2 ) • Not for ophthalmic, oral, or intravaginal use. ( 2 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel should be applied once daily in the evening, gently rubbing the medication to lightly cover the entire affected area. Approximately a pea-sized amount will be needed for each application. Avoid the eyes, lips, and mucous membranes. Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel is not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. Apply a pea-size amount once daily in the evening lightly covering the entire affected area. (2) Not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. (2) Females of reproductive potential must have a negative pregnancy test before initiating tretinoin capsules [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.3 )] . Discontinue tretinoin capsules if the t(15;17) translocation or PML/RARα fusion has not been identified [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin layer of TWYNEO to the affected areas once daily on clean and dry skin. Avoid contact with the eyes, lips, paranasal creases, and mucous membranes. Wash hands after application. TWYNEO is for topical use only. TWYNEO is not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. Apply a thin layer of TWYNEO to the affected areas once daily. ( 2 ) Avoid contact with eyes, lips, paranasal creases, and mucous membranes. ( 2 ) Wash hand after application. ( 2 ) Not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use.
Warnings: Warnings Keep out of reach of children. Keep tube tightly closed. Do not expose to heat. Store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Protect from freezing. Warnings: GELS ARE FLAMMABLE. AVOID FIRE, FLAME OR SMOKING DURING USE. Keep out of reach of children. Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120°F (49°C).
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tretinoin capsules are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to tretinoin capsules, any of its components, or other retinoids. Reactions have included rash, pruritus, face edema, and dyspnea [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. Hypersensitivity to tretinoin capsules, any of its components, or other retinoids Contraindications Use of the product should be discontinued if hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients is noted. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None. None. ( 4 ) Contraindications: Use of the product should be discontinued if hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients is noted. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel is contraindicated in patients with regional enteritis, ulcerative colitis, or history of antibiotic-associated colitis. Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel is contraindicated in patients with regional enteritis, ulcerative colitis, or history of antibiotic- associated colitis. (4) Reactions have included rash, pruritus, face edema, and dyspnea. [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. Hypersensitivity to tretinoin, any of its components, or other retinoids ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS TWYNEO is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity reaction to benzoyl peroxide or any components of TWYNEO [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . History of serious hypersensitivity reaction to benzoyl peroxide or any component of TWYNEO.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong CYP3A Inhibitors and Inducers: Avoid coadministration with strong CYP3A inhibitors and inducers. ( 7.1 ) • Concomitant Use of Products Known to Cause Intracranial Hypertension : Avoid concomitant use with other products that can cause intracranial hypertension. ( 7.2 ) • Vitamin A : Avoid concomitant use with vitamin A. ( 7.3 ) • Anti-fibrinolytic Agents : Avoid concomitant use with anti-fibrinolytic agents. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Tretinoin Capsules Strong or moderate CYP3A Inhibitors Avoid concomitant use of tretinoin capsules with strong CYP3A inhibitors if possible and monitor more frequently if concomitant use is unavoidable. Monitor patients taking moderate CYP3A inhibitors concomitantly with tretinoin capsules more frequently for adverse reactions. Tretinoin is a CYP3A substrate. Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increases tretinoin plasma concentrations, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Strong CYP3A Inducers Concomitant use of tretinoin capsules with strong CYP3A4 inducers may decrease tretinoin plasma concentrations, which may reduce its efficacy. Avoid concomitant use with strong CYP3A inducers if possible. 7.2 Concomitant Use of Products Known to Cause Intracranial Hypertension Intracranial hypertension has been reported in patients who received tretinoin capsules and concomitant use of other products that can cause intracranial hypertension, such as tetracyclines, may increase the risk. Avoid concomitant use of tretinoin capsules with other products agents that can cause intracranial hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . 7.3 Vitamin A The concomitant use of vitamin A with tretinoin capsules may lead to vitamin A related adverse reactions. Avoid concomitant use of tretinoin capsules with vitamin A. 7.4 Anti-fibrinolytic Agents Fatal thrombotic complications have been reported in patients who have received tretinoin capsules and concomitant use of anti-fibrinolytic agents may increase the risk. Avoid concomitant use of tretinoin capsules with anti-fibrinolytic agents [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )]. 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Tretinoin Capsules Strong or moderate CYP3A Inhibitors Avoid concomitant use of tretinoin capsules with strong CYP3A inhibitors if possible and monitor more frequently if concomitant use is unavoidable. Drug Interactions Concomitant topical medication, medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers, soaps and cosmetics that have a strong drying effect, and products with high concentrations of alcohol, astringents, spices or lime should be used with caution because of possible interaction with tretinoin. Particular caution should be exercised in using preparations containing sulfur, resorcinol, or salicylic acid with tretinoin. It also is advisable to “rest” a patient's skin until the effects of such preparations subside before use of tretinoin is begun. It also is advisable to "rest" a patient's skin until the effects of such preparations subside before use of tretinoin is begun. Drug Interactions: Concomitant topical medication, medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers, soaps and cosmetics that have a strong drying effect, and products with high concentrations of alcohol, astringents, spices or lime should be used with caution because of possible interaction with tretinoin. It also is advisable to “rest” a patient’s skin until the effects of such preparations subside before use of tretinoin is begun. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel should not be used in combination with erythromycin-containing products because of its clindamycin component. (7.1) 7.1 Erythromycin Clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel should not be used in combination with erythromycin-containing products due to possible antagonism to the clindamycin component. In-vitro studies have shown antagonism between these 2 antimicrobials. The clinical significance of this in-vitro antagonism is not known. 7.2 Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents. Therefore, clindamycin phosphate and tretinoin gel should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents. Tretinoin is a CYP3A substrate . Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increases tretinoin plasma concentrations, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] .

=== BUDESONIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Nasal allergy symptom reliever
Indications: Use s Temporarily relieves these symptoms of hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: • nasal congestion • runny nose • itchy nose • sneezing 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Budesonide capsules (enteric coated) are a corticosteroid indicated for: Treatment of mild to moderate active Crohn's disease involving the ileum and/or the ascending colon, in patients 8 years and older. ( 1.1 ) Maintenance of clinical remission of mild to moderate Crohn's disease involving the ileum and/or the ascending colon for up to 3 months in adults. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Treatment of Mild to Moderate Active Crohn's Disease Budesonide capsules (enteric coated) are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate active Crohn's disease involving the ileum and/or the ascending colon in patients 8 years of age and older. 1.2 Maintenance of Clinical Remission of Mild to Moderate Crohn's Disease Budesonide capsules (enteric coated) are indicated for the maintenance of clinical remission of mild to moderate Crohn's disease involving the ileum and/or the ascending colon for up to 3 months in adults. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL is a combination product containing a corticosteroid and a long-acting beta 2 -adrenergic agonist indicated for: • Treatment of asthma in patients 6 years of age and older. ( 1.1 ) • Maintenance treatment of airflow obstruction and reducing exacerbations in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) including chronic bronchitis and/or emphysema. ( 1.2 ) Important limitations: • Not indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm. ( 1.1 , 1.2 ) 1.1 Treatment of Asthma BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL is indicated for the treatment of asthma in patients 6 years of age and older. BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL should be used for patients not adequately controlled on a long-term asthma-control medication such as an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) or whose disease warrants initiation of treatment with both an inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonist (LABA). Important Limitations of Use: • BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL is NOT indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm. 1.2 Maintenance Treatment of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL 160/4.5 is indicated for the maintenance treatment of airflow obstruction in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) including chronic bronchitis and/or emphysema. BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL 160/4.5 is also indicated to reduce exacerbations of COPD. BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL 160/4.5 is the only strength indicated for the treatment of COPD. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Budesonide delayed-release capsules are a corticosteroid indicated for: Treatment of mild to moderate active Crohn’s disease involving the ileum and/or the ascending colon, in patients 8 years and older. ( 1.1 ) Maintenance of clinical remission of mild to moderate Crohn’s disease involving the ileum and/or the ascending colon for up to 3 months in adults. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Treatment of Mild to Moderate Active Crohn’s Disease Budesonide delayed-release capsules are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate active Crohn’s disease involving the ileum and/or the ascending colon in patients 8 years of age and older. 1.2 Maintenance of Clinical Remission of Mild to Moderate Crohn’s Disease Budesonide delayed-release capsules are indicated for the maintenance of clinical remission of mild to moderate Crohn’s disease involving the ileum and/or the ascending colon for up to 3 months in adults. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE PULMICORT FLEXHALER is a corticosteroid indicated for: • Maintenance treatment of asthma as prophylactic therapy in adult and pediatric patients six years of age or older ( 1 ) Limitations of Use: Not indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm ( 1 ) 1.1 Treatment of Asthma PULMICORT FLEXHALER is indicated for the maintenance treatment of asthma as prophylactic therapy in patients six years of age or older. Limitations of Use: •PULMICORT FLEXHALER is NOT indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Budesonide inhalation suspension is an inhaled corticosteroid indicated for: • Maintenance treatment of asthma and as prophylactic therapy in children 12 months to 8 years of age. () Limitations of Use: Not indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm. () 1.1 Maintenance Treatment of Asthma Budesonide inhalation suspension is indicated for the maintenance treatment of asthma and as prophylactic therapy in children 12 months to 8 years of age. Limitations of Use: • Budesonide inhalation suspension is NOT indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE UCERIS rectal foam is indicated for the induction of remission in patients with active mild to moderate distal ulcerative colitis extending up to 40 cm from the anal verge. UCERIS rectal foam is a glucocorticosteroid indicated for the induction of remission in patients with active mild to moderate distal ulcerative colitis extending up to 40 cm from the anal verge. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Budesonide inhalation suspension is an inhaled corticosteroid indicated for: Maintenance treatment of asthma and as prophylactic therapy in children 12 months to 8 years of age ( 1 ) Limitations of Use : Not indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm ( 1 ) 1.1 Maintenance Treatment of Asthma Budesonide inhalation suspension is indicated for the maintenance treatment of asthma and as prophylactic therapy in children 12 months to 8 years of age. Limitations of Use: Budesonide inhalation suspension is NOT indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm.
Dosage: Directions Read insert (inside package) on how to: get a new bottle ready (primed) before first use prime bottle again if not used for two days use the spray clean the spray nozzle ADULTS AND CHILDREN 12 YEARS OF AGE AND OLDER adults and children 12 years of age and older once daily, spray 2 times into each nostril while sniffing gently once your allergy symptoms improve, reduce to 1 spray in each nostril per day CHILDREN 6 TO UNDER 12 YEARS OF AGE the growth rate of some children may be slower while using this product. Talk to your child’s doctor if your child needs to use the spray for longer than two months a year children 6 to under 12 years of age an adult should supervise use once daily, spray 1 time into each nostril while sniffing gently if allergy symptoms do not improve, increase to 2 sprays in each nostril per day. Once allergy symptoms improve, reduce to 1 spray in each nostril per day children under 6 years of age do not use do not use more than directed if you forget a dose, do not double the next dose do not spray into eyes or mouth if allergy symptoms do not improve after two weeks, stop using and talk to a doctor do not use for the common cold shake well before each use 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administration Instructions ( 2.1 ): Take once daily in the morning. Swallow whole. Do not chew or crush. Avoid consumption of grapefruit juice for the duration of therapy. Recommended Dosage: Mild to moderate active Crohn's disease ( 2.2 ): Adults: 9 mg once daily for up to 8 weeks; repeat 8 week treatment courses for recurring episodes of active disease. Pediatrics: 8 to 17 years who weigh more than 25 kg: 9 mg once daily for up to 8 weeks, followed by 6 mg once daily in the morning for 2 weeks. Maintenance of clinical remission of mild to moderate Crohn's disease ( 2.3 ): Adults: 6 mg once daily for up to 3 months; taper to complete cessation after 3 months. Continued treatment for more than 3 months has not been shown to provide substantial clinical benefit. When switching from oral prednisolone, begin tapering prednisolone concomitantly with initiating budesonide capsules (enteric coated). Hepatic Impairment: Consider reducing the dosage to 3 mg once daily in adult patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B). ( 2.4 , 5.1 , 8.6 ) 2.1 Administration Instructions Take budesonide capsules (enteric coated) once daily in the morning. Swallow budesonide extended-release capsules (enteric coated) whole. Avoid consumption of grapefruit juice for the duration of budesonide capsules (enteric coated) therapy [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 2.2 Treatment of Mild to Moderate Active Crohn's Disease The recommended dosage of budesonide capsules (enteric coated) is: Adults: 9 mg orally once daily for up to 8 weeks. Repeated 8 week courses of budesonide capsules (enteric coated) can be given for recurring episodes of active disease. Pediatric patients 8 to 17 years who weigh more than 25 kg : 9 mg orally once daily for up to 8 weeks, followed by 6 mg once daily for 2 weeks. 2.3 Maintenance of Clinical Remission of Mild to Moderate Crohn's Disease The recommended dosage in adults, following an 8 week course(s) of treatment for active disease and once the patient's symptoms are controlled (CDAI less than 150), is budesonide capsules (enteric coated) 6 mg orally once daily for maintenance of clinical remission up to 3 months. If symptom control is still maintained at 3 months an attempt to taper to complete cessation is recommended. Continued treatment with budesonide capsules (enteric coated) 6 mg for more than 3 months has not been shown to provide substantial clinical benefit. Patients with mild to moderate active Crohn's disease involving the ileum and/or ascending colon have been switched from oral prednisolone to budesonide capsules (enteric coated) with no reported episodes of adrenal insufficiency. Since prednisolone should not be stopped abruptly, tapering should begin concomitantly with initiating budesonide capsules (enteric coated) treatment. 2.4 Dosage Adjustment in Adult Patients with Hepatic Impairment Consider reducing the dosage of budesonide capsules (enteric coated) to 3 mg once daily for adult patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B). Avoid use in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For oral inhalation only. • Treatment of asthma in patients 12 years and older: 2 inhalations of BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL 80/4.5 or 160/4.5 twice daily. Starting dosage is based on asthma severity. ( 2.2 ) • Treatment of asthma in patients aged 6 to less than 12 years: 2 inhalations of BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL 80/4.5 twice daily. ( 2.2 ) • Maintenance treatment in COPD: 2 inhalations of BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL 160/4.5 twice daily. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Administration Information BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL should be administered as 2 inhalations twice daily (morning and evening, approximately 12 hours apart), every day by the orally inhaled route only. After inhalation, the patient should rinse the mouth with water without swallowing. Prime BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL before using for the first time by releasing two test sprays into the air away from the face, shaking well for 5 seconds before each spray. In cases where the inhaler has not been used for more than 7 days or when it has been dropped, prime the inhaler again by shaking well before each spray and releasing two test sprays into the air away from the face. More frequent administration or a higher number of inhalations (more than 2 inhalations twice daily) of the prescribed strength of BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL is not recommended as some patients are more likely to experience adverse effects with higher doses of formoterol. Patients using BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL should not use additional LABA for any reason [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3 , 5.12 ) ]. 2.2 Asthma If asthma symptoms arise in the period between doses, an inhaled, short-acting beta 2 -agonist should be taken for immediate relief. Adult and Adolescent Patients 12 Years of Age and Older For patients 12 years of age and older, the dosage is 2 inhalations of BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL 80/4.5 or BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL 160/4.5 twice daily. The recommended starting dosages for BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL for patients 12 years of age and older are based upon patients' asthma severity or level of control of asthma symptoms, and risk of exacerbations on current inhaled corticosteroids. The maximum recommended dosage in adult and adolescent patients 12 years and older is BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL 160/4.5, two inhalations twice daily. Improvement in asthma control following inhaled administration of BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL can occur within 15 minutes of beginning treatment, although maximum benefit may not be achieved for 2 weeks or longer after beginning treatment. Individual patients will experience a variable time to onset and degree of symptom relief. For patients who do not respond adequately to the starting dose after 1-2 weeks of therapy with BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL 80/4.5, replacement with BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL 160/4.5 may provide additional asthma control. If a previously effective dosage regimen of BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL fails to provide adequate control of asthma, the therapeutic regimen should be re-evaluated and additional therapeutic options, (e.g., replacing the lower strength of BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL with the higher strength, adding additional inhaled corticosteroid, or initiating oral corticosteroids) should be considered. Pediatric Patients Aged 6 to Less than 12 Years For patients 6 to less than 12 years of age, the dosage is 2 inhalations of BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL 80/4.5 twice daily. 2.3 Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease For patients with COPD the recommended dose is BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL 160/4.5, two inhalations twice daily. If shortness of breath occurs in the period between doses, an inhaled, short-acting beta 2 -agonist should be taken for immediate relief. For patients unable to swallow an intact capsule, open the capsules and empty the granules onto one tablespoonful of applesauce. Mix and consume the entire contents within 30 minutes. Follow with 8 ounces of water. Recommended Dosage: Mild to moderate active Crohn’s disease ( 2.2 ): Adults: 9 mg once daily for up to 8 weeks; repeat 8 week treatment courses for recurring episodes of active disease. Pediatrics 8 to 17 years who weigh more than 25 kg: 9 mg once daily for up to 8 weeks, followed by 6 mg once daily in the morning for 2 weeks. Maintenance of clinical remission of mild to moderate Crohn’s disease ( 2.3 ): Adults: 6 mg once daily for up to 3 months; taper to complete cessation after 3 months. When switching from oral prednisolone, begin tapering prednisolone concomitantly with initiating budesonide delayed-release capsules. ( 2.4 , 5.1 , 8.6 ) 2.1 Administration Instructions Take budesonide delayed-release capsules once daily in the morning. Swallow budesonide delayed-release capsules whole. For patients unable to swallow an intact capsule, budesonide delayed-release capsules can be opened and administered as follows: Place one tablespoonful of applesauce into a clean container (e.g., empty bowl). The applesauce used should not be hot and should be soft enough to be swallowed without chewing. Open the capsule(s). Carefully empty all the granules inside the capsule(s) on the applesauce. Mix the granules with the applesauce. Consume the entire contents within 30 minutes of mixing. Do not chew or crush the granules. Do not save the applesauce and granules for future use. Follow the applesauce and granules immediately with a glass (8 ounces) of cool water to ensure complete swallowing of the granules. Avoid consumption of grapefruit juice for the duration of budesonide delayed-release capsules therapy [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . 2.2 Treatment of Mild to Moderate Active Crohn's Disease The recommended dosage of budesonide delayed-release capsules are: Adults: 9 mg orally once daily for up to 8 weeks. Repeated 8-week courses of budesonide delayed-release capsules can be given for recurring episodes of active disease. Pediatric patients 8 to 17 years who weigh more than 25 kg: 9 mg orally once daily for up to 8 weeks, followed by 6 mg once daily for 2 weeks. 2.3 Maintenance of Clinical Remission of Mild to Moderate Crohn’s Disease The recommended dosage in adults, following an 8-week course(s) of treatment for active disease and once the patient’s symptoms are controlled (CDAI less than 150), is budesonide delayed-release capsules 6 mg orally once daily for maintenance of clinical remission up to 3 months. Continued treatment with budesonide delayed-release capsules 6 mg for more than 3 months has not been shown to provide substantial clinical benefit. Patients with mild to moderate active Crohn’s disease involving the ileum and/or ascending colon have been switched from oral prednisolone to budesonide delayed-release capsules with no reported episodes of adrenal insufficiency. Since prednisolone should not be stopped abruptly, tapering should begin concomitantly with initiating budesonide delayed-release capsules treatment. 2.4 Dosage Adjustment in Adult Patients with Hepatic Impairment Consider reducing the dosage of budesonide delayed-release capsules to 3 mg once daily for adult patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B). Avoid use in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION PULMICORT FLEXHALER should be administered twice daily by the orally inhaled route only. After inhalation, the patient should rinse the mouth with water without swallowing [see Patient Counseling Information (17.1) ] . Patients should be instructed to prime PULMICORT FLEXHALER prior to its initial use, and instructed to inhale deeply and forcefully each time the device is used. The safety and efficacy of PULMICORT FLEXHALER when administered in excess of recommended doses have not been established. After asthma stability has been achieved, it is desirable to titrate to the lowest effective dosage to reduce the possibility of side effects. For patients who do not respond adequately to the starting dose after 1-2 weeks of therapy with PULMICORT FLEXHALER, increasing the dose may provide additional asthma control. For oral inhalation only. • Patients 18 Years of Age and Older: For patients 18 years of age and older, the recommended starting dosage is 360 mcg twice daily. In some adult patients, a starting dose of 180 mcg twice daily may be adequate. The maximum dosage should not exceed 720 mcg twice daily ( 2.1 ) • Patients 6 to 17 Years of Age: The recommended starting dosage is 180 mcg twice daily. In some pediatric patients, a starting dose of 360 mcg twice daily may be appropriate. The maximum dosage should not exceed 360 mcg twice daily ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Asthma If asthma symptoms arise in the period between doses, an inhaled, short-acting beta 2 -agonist should be taken for immediate relief. Patients 18 Years of Age and Older: For patients 18 years of age and older, the recommended starting dosage is 360 mcg twice daily. The maximum dosage should not exceed 720 mcg twice daily. Patients 6 to 17 Years of Age: The recommended starting dosage is 180 mcg twice daily. The maximum dosage should not exceed 360 mcg twice daily. For all patients, it is desirable to titrate to the lowest effective dose after adequate asthma stability is achieved. Improvement in asthma control following inhaled administration of budesonide can occur within 24 hours of initiation of treatment, although maximum benefit may not be achieved for 1 to 2 weeks, or longer. Individual patients will experience a variable onset and degree of symptom relief. If a previously effective dosage regimen of PULMICORT FLEXHALER fails to provide adequate control of asthma, the therapeutic regimen should be re-evaluated and additional therapeutic options (e.g., replacing the lower strength of PULMICORT FLEXHALER with the higher strength or initiating oral corticosteroids) should be considered. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended starting dose and highest recommended dose of budesonide inhalation suspension, based on prior asthma therapy, are listed in the following table. Previous Therapy Recommended Starting Dose Highest Recommended Dose Bronchodilators alone 0.5 mg total daily dose administered twice daily in divided doses 0.5 mg total daily dose Inhaled Corticosteroids 0.5 mg total daily dose administered twice daily in divided doses 1 mg total daily dose Oral Corticosteroids 1 mg total daily dose administered as 0.5 mg twice daily 1 mg total daily dose Recommended dosing based on previous therapy (). Start with the lowest recommended dose: • Bronchodilators alone: 0.25 mg twice daily • Inhaled corticosteroids: 0.25 mg twice daily up to 0.5 mg twice daily • Oral corticosteroids: 0.5 mg twice daily • Once asthma stability is achieved, titrate the dose downwards. • For inhalation use via compressed air driven jet nebulizers only (not for use with ultrasonic devices). Not for injection. () 2.1 Dosing Recommendations Dosing recommendations based on previous therapy are as follows: • Bronchodilators alone: 0.25 mg twice daily • Inhaled corticosteroids: 0.25 mg twice daily up to 0.5 mg twice daily • Oral corticosteroids: 0.5 mg twice daily In all patients, it is desirable to downward-titrate to the lowest effective dose once asthma stability is achieved. 2.2 Directions for Use Budesonide inhalation suspension should be administered via jet nebulizer connected to an air compressor with an adequate air flow, equipped with a mouthpiece or suitable face mask. Ultrasonic nebulizers are not suitable for the adequate administration of budesonide inhalation suspension and, therefore, are NOT recommended. The effects of mixing budesonide inhalation suspension with other nebulizable medications have not been adequately assessed. Budesonide inhalation suspension should be administered separately in the nebulizer [see ( )] . A Pari-LC-Jet Plus Nebulizer (with face mask or mouthpiece) connected to a Pari Master compressor was used to deliver budesonide inhalation suspension to each patient in 3 U.S. controlled clinical studies. The safety and efficacy of budesonide inhalation suspension delivered by other nebulizers and compressors have not been established. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The recommended dosage is 1 metered dose administered twice daily for 2 weeks followed by 1 metered dose administered once daily for 4 weeks. ( 2.1 ) • For rectal administration only. ( 2.2 ) • Warm the canister in the hands while shaking it vigorously for 10 to 15 seconds prior to use. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage regimen is 1 metered dose administered rectally twice daily for 2 weeks followed by 1 metered dose administered rectally once daily for 4 weeks. 2.2 Administration Instructions Advise patients: • UCERIS rectal foam is only to be applied rectally. It is not for oral use. • Before using UCERIS rectal foam, use the bathroom to empty your bowels. • Each applicator is coated with a lubricant. If additional lubrication is needed, petrolatum or petroleum jelly can also be used. • Warm the canister in the hands while shaking it vigorously for 10 to 15 seconds prior to use. • UCERIS rectal foam can be used in a standing, lying or sitting position (e.g., while using the toilet). • Apply UCERIS rectal foam in the morning and the evening for the first 2 weeks of treatment; then once daily in the evening for the next 4 weeks. When applied in the evening, use immediately prior to bedtime. Try not to empty your bowels again until the next morning. • Avoid concomitant use of CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, grapefruit juice) during treatment with UCERIS rectal foam. Previous Therapy Recommended Starting Dose Highest Recommended Dose Bronchodilators alone 0.5 mg total daily dose administered either once daily or twice daily in divided doses 0.5 mg total daily dose Inhaled Corticosteroids 0.5 mg total daily dose administered either once daily or twice daily in divided doses 1 mg total daily dose Oral Corticosteroids 1 mg total daily dose administered as 0.5 mg twice daily 1 mg total daily dose Recommended dosing based on previous therapy ( 2 ). Start with the lowest recommended dose: Bronchodilators alone: 0.5 mg once daily or 0.25 mg twice daily Inhaled corticosteroids: 0.5 mg once daily or 0.25 mg twice daily up to 0.5 mg twice daily Oral corticosteroids: 0.5 mg twice daily In symptomatic children not responding to non-steroidal therapy, a starting dose of 0.25 mg once daily may be considered If once-daily treatment does not provide adequate control, the total daily dose should be increased and/or administered as a divided dose. Once asthma stability is achieved, titrate the dose downwards. For inhalation use via compressed air driven jet nebulizers only (not for use with ultrasonic devices). ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Dosing Recommendations Dosing recommendations based on previous therapy are as follows: Bronchodilators alone: 0.5 mg once daily or 0.25 mg twice daily Inhaled corticosteroids: 0.5 mg once daily or 0.25 mg twice daily up to 0.5 mg twice daily Oral corticosteroids: 0.5 mg twice daily In symptomatic children not responding to non-steroidal therapy, a starting dose of 0.25 mg once daily may be considered. If once-daily treatment does not provide adequate control, the total daily dose should be increased and/or administered as a divided dose. In all patients, it is desirable to downward-titrate to the lowest effective dose once asthma stability is achieved. Budesonide inhalation suspension should be administered separately in the nebulizer [see Patient Counseling Information ( 17.1 ) ]. A Pari-LC-Jet Plus ® Nebulizer (with face mask or mouthpiece) connected to a Pari Master ® compressor was used to deliver budesonide inhalation suspension to each patient in 3 U.S.
Warnings: Warnings Do not use in children under 6 years of age if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any of the ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have had recent nose ulcers or nose surgery have had a nose injury that has not healed are using a steroid medicine for asthma, allergies or skin rash have an eye infection have or had glaucoma or cataracts When using this product the growth rate of some children may be slower some symptoms may get better on the first day of treatment. It may take up to two weeks of daily use to feel the most symptom relief. do not share this bottle with anyone else as this may spread germs remember to tell your doctor about all the medicines you take, including this one Stop use and ask a doctor if you have, or come into contact with someone who has, chickenpox, measles or tuberculosis you have or develop symptoms of an infection such as persistent fever you have any change in vision you have severe or frequent nosebleeds If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222).
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Budesonide capsules (enteric coated) are contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to budesonide or any of the ingredients of budesonide capsules (enteric coated). Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis have occurred [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . Hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients in budesonide capsules (enteric coated). ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of budesonide and formoterol fumarate dihydrate is contraindicated in the following conditions: • Primary treatment of status asthmaticus or other acute episodes of asthma or COPD where intensive measures are required. • Hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients in BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL. • Primary treatment of status asthmaticus or acute episodes of asthma or COPD requiring intensive measures. ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients in BUDESONIDE AND FORMOTEROL FUMARATE DIHYDRATE INHALATION AEROSOL. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Budesonide delayed-release capsules are contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to budesonide or any of the ingredients of budesonide delayed-release capsules. Hypersensitivity to budesonide or any of the ingredients in budesonide delayed-release capsules. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of PULMICORT FLEXHALER is contraindicated in the following conditions: • Primary treatment of status asthmaticus or other acute episodes of asthma where intensive measures are required. • Severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins or any ingredients of PULMICORT FLEXHALER [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Description (11) ]. • Primary treatment of status asthmaticus or other acute episodes of asthma where intensive measures are required ( 4 ) • Severe hypersensitivity to milk proteins and any of the ingredients in PULMICORT FLEXHALER ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of budesonide inhalation suspension is contraindicated in the following conditions: • Primary treatment of status asthmaticus or other acute episodes of asthma where intensive measures are required. • Hypersensitivity to budesonide or any of the ingredients of budesonide inhalation suspension [see (), (), ( )] . • Primary treatment of status asthmaticus or other acute episodes of asthma where intensive measures are required. () • Hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients in budesonide inhalation suspension. () 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS UCERIS rectal foam is contraindicated in patients with a history of a known hypersensitivity to budesonide or any of the ingredients of UCERIS rectal foam. Reactions have included anaphylaxis [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . Known hypersensitivity to budesonide or any of the ingredients in UCERIS rectal foam. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of budesonide inhalation suspension is contraindicated in the following conditions: Primary treatment of status asthmaticus or other acute episodes of asthma where intensive measures are required. Hypersensitivity to budesonide or any of the ingredients of budesonide inhalation suspension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Description ( 11 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ) ]. Primary treatment of status asthmaticus or other acute episodes of asthma where intensive measures are required ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients in budesonide inhalation suspension ( 4 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP3A4 Inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, grapefruit juice) : Can increase systemic budesonide concentrations: avoid use. ( 2.1 , 7.1 ) 7.1 CYP3A4 Inhibitors Budesonide is a substrate for CYP3A4. Avoid use with CYP3A4 inhibitors. Concomitant oral administration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (ketoconazole) caused an eight-fold increase of the systemic exposure to oral budesonide. Inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g. ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir, indinavir, saquinavir, erythromycin, and cyclosporine) can increase systemic budesonide concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Grapefruit Juice Avoid ingestion of grapefruit or grapefruit juice with budesonide. Intake of grapefruit juice which inhibits CYP3A4 activity with budesonide can increase the systemic exposure for budesonide [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS In clinical studies, concurrent administration of budesonide and formoterol fumarate dihydrate and other drugs, such as short-acting beta 2 -agonists, intranasal corticosteroids, and antihistamines/decongestants has not resulted in an increased frequency of adverse reactions. No formal drug interaction studies have been performed with budesonide and formoterol fumarate dihydrate. • Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir): Use with caution. May cause increased systemic corticosteroid effects. (7.1) • Monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants: Use with extreme caution. May potentiate effect of formoterol on vascular system. (7.2) • Beta-blockers: Use with caution. May block bronchodilatory effects of beta-agonists and produce severe bronchospasm. (7.3) • Diuretics: Use with caution. Electrocardiographic changes and/or hypokalemia associated with non-potassium-sparing diuretics may worsen with concomitant beta-agonists. (7.4) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P4503A4 The main route of metabolism of corticosteroids, including budesonide, a component of budesonide and formoterol fumarate dihydrate, is via cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzyme 3A4 (CYP3A4). After oral administration of ketoconazole, a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, the mean plasma concentration of orally administered budesonide increased. Concomitant administration of CYP3A4 may inhibit the metabolism of, and increase the systemic exposure to, budesonide. Caution should be exercised when considering the coadministration of budesonide and formoterol fumarate dihydrate with long-term ketoconazole and other known strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, telithromycin) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants Budesonide and formoterol fumarate dihydrate should be administered with caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents, because the action of formoterol, a component of budesonide and formoterol fumarate dihydrate, on the vascular system may be potentiated by these agents. In clinical trials with budesonide and formoterol fumarate dihydrate, a limited number of COPD and asthma patients received tricyclic antidepressants, and, therefore, no clinically meaningful conclusions on adverse events can be made. 7.3 Beta-Adrenergic Receptor Blocking Agents Beta-blockers (including eye drops) may not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as formoterol, a component of budesonide and formoterol fumarate dihydrate, but may produce severe bronchospasm in patients with asthma. Therefore, patients with asthma should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. However, under certain circumstances, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents in patients with asthma. In this setting, cardioselective beta-blockers could be considered, although they should be administered with caution. 7.4 Diuretics The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of non-potassium-sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of budesonide and formoterol fumarate dihydrate with non-potassium-sparing diuretics. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP3A4 Inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, grapefruit juice): Can increase systemic budesonide concentrations: avoid use. ( 2.1, 7.1 ) 7.1 CYP3A4 Inhibitors Budesonide is a substrate for CYP3A4. Inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir, indinavir, saquinavir, erythromycin, and cyclosporine) can increase systemic budesonide concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Grapefruit Juice Avoid ingestion of grapefruit juice with budesonide. Intake of grapefruit juice which inhibits CYP3A4 activity with budesonide can increase the systemic exposure for budesonide [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir): Use with caution. May cause increased systemic corticosteroid effects ( 5.7 , 7.1 ) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 The main route of metabolism of corticosteroids, including budesonide, is via cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzyme 3A4 (CYP3A4). Caution should be exercised when considering the co-administration of PULMICORT FLEXHALER with long-term ketoconazole and other known strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, telithromycin) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . (, ) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 The main route of metabolism of corticosteroids, including budesonide, is via cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzyme 3A4 (CYP3A4). Concomitant administration of a CYP3A4 inhibitor may inhibit the metabolism of, and increase the systemic exposure to, budesonide. Caution should be exercised when considering the co-administration of budesonide inhalation suspension with long-term ketoconazole and other known strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, telithromycin) [see () and ( )] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP3A4 Inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, grapefruit juice): May cause increased systemic corticosteroid effects; avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 CYP3A4 Inhibitors The active ingredient of UCERIS rectal foam, budesonide, is metabolized by CYP3A4. Inhibitors of CYP3A4 activity (such as ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir, indinavir, saquinavir, erythromycin, cyclosporine and grapefruit juice) can increase systemic budesonide concentrations. Avoid concomitant use of CYP3A4 inhibitors with UCERIS rectal foam [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir): Use with caution. May cause increased systemic corticosteroid effects ( 5.12 , 7.1 ) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 The main route of metabolism of corticosteroids, including budesonide, is via cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzyme 3A4 (CYP3A4). Caution should be exercised when considering the coadministration of budesonide inhalation suspension with long-term ketoconazole and other known strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, telithromycin) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ].

=== GUANFACINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Guanfacine Tablets, USP are indicated in the management of hypertension. Guanfacine hydrochloride may be given alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents, especially thiazide-type diuretics. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Guanfacine extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) as monotherapy and as adjunctive therapy to stimulant medications [see Clinical Studies (14)] . Guanfacine extended-release tablets are a central alpha 2A -adrenergic receptor agonist indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) as monotherapy and as adjunctive therapy to stimulant medications (1, 14). Guanfacine tablets, USP may be given alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents, especially thiazide-type diuretics. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Guanfacine extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) as monotherapy and as adjunctive therapy to stimulant medications [see Clinical Studies (14 )] . Guanfacine extended-release tablets are a central alpha 2A -adrenergic receptor agonist indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) as monotherapy and as adjunctive therapy to stimulant medications ( 1 , 1 4 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Guanfacine extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) as monotherapy and as adjunctive therapy to stimulant medications [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. Guanfacine extended-release tablets are central alpha 2A -adrenergic receptor agonist indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) as monotherapyand as adjunctive therapy to stimulant medications ( 1 , 14 ) . Guanfacine extended-release tablet is a central alpha 2A -adrenergic receptor agonist indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) as monotherapy and as adjunctive therapy to stimulant medications ( 1 , 14 ). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Guanfacine hydrochloride tablets are indicated in the management of hypertension. Guanfacine may be given alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents, especially thiazide-type diuretics. Guanfacine extended-release tablets are a central alpha2A-adrenergic receptor agonist indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) as monotherapy and as adjunctive therapy to stimulant medications (1, 14). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Guanfacine tablets are indicated in the management of hypertension. Guanfacine tablets may be given alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents, especially thiazide-type diuretics.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended initial dose of guanfacine hydrochloride when given alone or in combination with another antihypertensive drug is 1 mg daily given at bedtime to minimize somnolence. If after 3 to 4 weeks of therapy 1 mg does not give a satisfactory result, a dose of 2 mg may be given, although most of the effect of guanfacine hydrochloride is seen at 1 mg (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Higher daily doses have been used, but adverse reactions increase significantly with doses above 3 mg/day. The frequency of rebound hypertension is low, but it can occur. When rebound occurs, it does so after 2 - 4 days, which is delayed compared with clonidine hydrochloride. This is consistent with the longer half-life of guanfacine. In most cases, after abrupt withdrawal of guanfacine, blood pressure returns to pretreatment levels slowly (within 2 - 4 days) without ill effects. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended dose: 1 mg to 7 mg (0.05 to 0.12 mg/kg target weight based dose range) once daily in the morning or evening based on clinical response and tolerability (2.2). Begin at a dose of 1 mg once daily and adjust in increments of no more than 1 mg/week (2.2). Do not crush, chew or break tablets before swallowing (2.1). Do not administer with high-fat meals, because of increased exposure (2.1). Do not substitute for immediate-release guanfacine tablets on a mg-per-mg basis, because of differing pharmacokinetic profiles (2.3). If switching from immediate-release guanfacine, discontinue that treatment and titrate with guanfacine extended-release tablets as directed (2.3). When discontinuing, taper the dose in decrements of no more than 1 mg every 3 to 7 days to avoid rebound hypertension (2.5). 2.1 General Instruction for Use Swallow tablets whole. Do not crush, chew, or break tablets because this will increase the rate of guanfacine release. Do not administer with high fat meals, due to increased exposure. 2.2 Dose Selection Take guanfacine extended-release tablets orally once daily, either in the morning or evening, at approximately the same time each day. Begin at a dose of 1 mg/day, and adjust in increments of no more than 1 mg/week. In monotherapy clinical trials, there was dose- and exposure-related clinical improvement as well as risks for several clinically significant adverse reactions (hypotension, bradycardia, sedative events). To balance the exposure-related potential benefits and risks, the recommended target dose range depending on clinical response and tolerability for guanfacine extended-release tablets is 0.05 to 0.12 mg/kg/day (total daily dose between 1 to 7 mg) (See Table 1). Table 1: Recommended Target Dose Range for Therapy with guanfacine extended-release tablets Weight Target dose range (0.05 to 0.12 mg/kg/day) 25 to 33.9 kg 2 to 3 mg/day 34 to 41.4 kg 2 to 4 mg/day 41.5 to 49.4 kg 3 to 5 mg/day 49.5 to 58.4 kg 3 to 6 mg/day 58.5 to 91 kg 4 to 7 mg/day >91 kg 5 to 7 mg/day Doses above 4 mg/day have not been evaluated in children (ages 6 to 12 years) and doses above 7 mg/day have not been evaluated in adolescents (ages 13 to 17 years) In the adjunctive trial which evaluated guanfacine extended-release tablets treatment with psychostimulants, the majority of patients reached optimal doses in the 0.05 to 0.12 mg/kg/day range. Doses above 4 mg/day have not been studied in adjunctive trials. 2.3 Switching from Immediate-Release Guanfacine to Guanfacine Extended-Release Tablets If switching from immediate-release guanfacine, discontinue that treatment, and titrate with guanfacine extended-release tablets following above recommended schedule. Do not substitute for immediate-release guanfacine tablets on a milligram-per-milligram basis, because of differing pharmacokinetic profiles. Guanfacine extended-release tablets has significantly reduced C max (60% lower), bioavailability (43% lower), and a delayed T max (3 hours later) compared to those of the same dose of immediate-release guanfacine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 2.4 Maintenance Treatment Pharmacological treatment of ADHD may be needed for extended periods. Healthcare providers should periodically re-evaluate the long-term use of guanfacine extended-release tablets, and adjust weight-based dosage as needed. The majority of children and adolescents reach optimal doses in the 0.05 to 0.12 mg/kg/day range. Doses above 4 mg/day have not been evaluated in children (ages 6-12 years) and above 7 mg/day have not been evaluated in adolescents (ages 13-17 years) [see Clinical Studies (14)] . 2.5 Discontinuation of Treatment Following discontinuation of guanfacine extended-release tablets, patients may experience increases in blood pressure and heart rate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Adverse Reactions (6)] . Patients/caregivers should be instructed not to discontinue guanfacine extended-release tablets without consulting their health care provider. Monitor blood pressure and pulse when reducing the dose or discontinuing the drug. Taper the daily dose in decrements of no more than 1 mg every 3 to 7 days to minimize the risk of rebound hypertension. 2.6 Missed Doses When reinitiating patients to the previous maintenance dose after two or more missed consecutive doses, consider titration based on patient tolerability. 2.7 Dosage Adjustment with Concomitant Use of Strong and Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors or Inducers Dosage adjustments for guanfacine extended-release tablets are recommended with concomitant use of strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole), or CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., carbamazepine) (Table 2) [see Drug Interactions (7)] . Table 2: Guanfacine Extended-Release Tablets Dosage Adjustments for Patients Taking Concomitant CYP3A4 Inhibitors or Inducers Clinical Scenarios Starting guanfacine extended-release tablets while currently on a CYP3A4 modulator Continuing guanfacine extended-release tablets while adding a CYP3A4 modulator Continuing guanfacine extended-release tablets while stopping a CYP3A4 modulator CYP3A4 Strong and moderate Inhibitors Decrease guanfacine extended-release tablets dosage to half the recommended level. (see Table 1) Decrease guanfacine extended-release tablets dosage to half the recommended level. (see Table 1) Increase guanfacine extended-release tablets dosage to recommended level. (see Table 1) CYP3A4 Strong and moderate Inducers Consider increasing guanfacine extended-release tablets dosage up to double the recommended level. (see Table 1) Consider increasing guanfacine extended-release tablets dosage up to double the recommended level over 1 to 2 weeks. (see Table 1) Decrease guanfacine extended-release tablets dosage to recommended level over 1 to 2 weeks. (see Table 1) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended initial dose of guanfacine tablets when given alone or in combination with another antihypertensive drug is 1 mg daily given at bedtime to minimize somnolence. If after 3 weeks to 4 weeks of therapy 1 mg does not give a satisfactory result, a dose of 2 mg may be given, although most of the effect of guanfacine tablets are seen at 1 mg (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). When rebound occurs, it does so after 2 days to 4 days, which is delayed compared with clonidine hydrochloride. In most cases, after abrupt withdrawal of guanfacine, blood pressure returns to pretreatment levels slowly (within 2 days to 4 days) without ill effects. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended dose: 1 mg to 7 mg (0.05 to 0.12 mg/kg target weight based dose range) once daily in the morning or evening based on clinical response and tolerability ( 2.2 ). Begin at a dose of 1 mg once daily and adjust in increments of no more than 1 mg/week ( 2.2 ). Do not crush, chew or break tablets before swallowing ( 2.1 ). Do not administer with high-fat meals, because of increased exposure ( 2.1 ). Do not substitute for immediate-release guanfacine tablets on a mg-per-mg basis, because of differing pharmacokinetic profiles ( 2.3 ). If switching from immediate-release guanfacine, discontinue that treatment and titrate with guanfacine extended-release tablets as directed ( 2.3 ). When discontinuing, taper the dose in decrements of no more than 1 mg every 3 to 7 days to avoid rebound hypertension ( 2.5 ). Table 1: Recommended Target Dose Range for Therapy with Guanfacine Extended-Release Tablets Weight Target dose range (0.05 - 0.12 mg/kg/day) 25-33.9 kg 2-3 mg/day 34-41.4 kg 2-4 mg/day 41.5-49.4 kg 3-5 mg/day 49.5-58.4 kg 3-6 mg/day 58.5-91 kg 4-7 mg/day >91 kg 5-7 mg/day Doses above 4 mg/day have not been evaluated in children (ages 6 to12 years) and doses above 7 mg/day have not been evaluated in adolescents (ages 13 to 17 years) In the adjunctive trial which evaluated guanfacine extended-release tablets treatment with psychostimulants, the majority of patients reached optimal doses in the 0.05 to 0.12 mg/kg/day range. Guanfacine extended-release tablets have significantly reduced C max (60% lower), bioavailability (43% lower), and a delayed T max (3 hours later) compared to those of the same dose of immediate-release guanfacine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Doses above 4 mg/day have not been evaluated in children (ages 6 to 12 years) and above 7 mg/day have not been evaluated in adolescents (ages 13 to 17 years) [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . 2.5 Discontinuation of Treatment Following discontinuation of guanfacine extended-release tablets, patients may experience increases in blood pressure and heart rate [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) and Adverse Reactions (6) ]. 2.7 Dosage Adjustment with Concomitant Use of Strong and Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors or Inducers Dosage adjustments for guanfacine extended-release tablets are recommended with concomitant use of strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole), or CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., carbamazepine) (Table 2) [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended dose: 1 mg to 7 mg (0.05-0.12 mg/kg target weight based dose range) once daily in the morning or evening based on clinical response and tolerability ( 2.2 ) . • Begin at a dose of 1 mg once daily and adjust in increments of no more than 1 mg/week ( 2.2 ) . • Do not crush, chew or break tablets before swallowing ( 2.1 ) . • Do not administer with high-fat meals, because of increased exposure ( 2.1 ) . • Do not substitute for immediate-release guanfacine tablets on a mg-per-mg basis, because of differing pharmacokinetic profiles ( 2.3 ) . • If switching from immediate-release guanfacine, discontinue that treatment and titrate with guanfacine extended-release tablets as directed ( 2.3 ) . • When discontinuing, taper the dose in decrements of no more than 1 mg every 3 to 7 days to avoid rebound hypertension ( 2.5 ) . To balance the exposure-related potential benefits and risks, the recommended target dose range depending on clinical response and tolerability for guanfacine extended-release tablets is 0.05 to 0.12 mg/kg/day (total daily dose between 1 to 7 mg) (See Table 1 ). Table 1: Recommended Target Dose Range for Therapy with Guanfacine Extended-Release Tablets Doses above 4 mg/day have not been evaluated in children (ages 6 to 12 years) and doses above 7 mg/day have not been evaluated in adolescents (ages 13 to 17 years) Weight Target dose range (0.05 to 0.12 mg/kg/day) 25 to 33.9 kg 2 to 3 mg/day 34 to 41.4 kg 2 to 4 mg/day 41.5 to 49.4 kg 3 to 5 mg/day 49.5 to 58.4 kg 3 to 6 mg/day 58.5 to 91 kg 4 to 7 mg/day >91 kg 5 to 7 mg/day In the adjunctive trial which evaluated guanfacine extended-release tablets treatment with psychostimulants, the majority of patients reached optimal doses in the 0.05 to 0.12 mg/kg/day range. Guanfacine extended-release tablets have significantly reduced C max (60% lower), bioavailability (43% lower), and a delayed T max (3 hours later) compared to those of the same dose of immediate-release guanfacine [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . Doses above 4 mg/day have not been evaluated in children (ages 6 to 12 years) and above 7 mg/day have not been evaluated in adolescents (ages 13 to 17 years) [see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] . 2.5 Discontinuation of Treatment Following discontinuation of guanfacine extended-release tablets, patients may experience increases in blood pressure and heart rate [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ]. 2.7 Dosage Adjustment with Concomitant Use of Strong and Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors or Inducers Dosage adjustments for guanfacine extended-release tablets are recommended with concomitant use of strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole), or CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., carbamazepine) ( Table 2 ) [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] . (see Table 1 ) Decrease guanfacine extended-release tablets dosage to half the recommended level. (see Table 1 ) Increase guanfacine extended-release tablets dosage to recommended level. (see Table 1 ) CYP3A4 Strong and moderate Inducers Consider increasing guanfacine extended-release tablets dosage up to double the recommended level. (see Table 1 ) Consider increasing guanfacine extended-release tablets dosage up to double the recommended level over 1 to 2 weeks. (see Table 1 ) Decrease guanfacine extended-release tablets dosage to recommended level over 1 to 2 weeks. (see Table 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended dose: 1 mg to 7 mg (0.05 to 0.12 mg/kg target weight based dose range) once daily in the morning or evening based on clinical response and tolerability ( 2.2 ). • Begin at a dose of 1 mg once daily and adjust in increments of no more than 1 mg/week ( 2.2 ). • Do not crush, chew or break tablets before swallowing ( 2.1 ). • Do not administer with high-fat meals, because of increased exposure ( 2.1 ). • Do not substitute for immediate-release guanfacine tablets on a mg-per-mg basis, because of differing pharmacokinetic profiles ( 2.3 ). • If switching from immediate-release guanfacine, discontinue that treatment and titrate with guanfacine extended-release tablet as directed ( 2.3 ). • When discontinuing, taper the dose in decrements of no more than 1 mg every 3 to 7 days to avoid rebound hypertension ( 2.5 ). In monotherapy clinical trials, there was dose-and exposure-related clinical improvement as well as risks for several clinically significant adverse reactions (hypotension, bradycardia, sedative events). To balance the exposure-related potential benefits and risks, the recommended target dose range depending on clinical response and tolerability for guanfacine extended-release tablet is 0.05 to 0.12 mg/kg/day (total daily dose between 1 to 7 mg) (See Table 1). Table 1: Recommended Target Dose Range for Therapy with Guanfacine Extended-Release Tablets Weight Target dose range (0.05 to 0.12 mg/kg/day) 25 to 33.9 kg 2 to 3 mg/day 34 to 41.4 kg 2 to 4 mg/day 41.5 to 49.4 kg 3 to 5 mg/day 49.5 to 58.4 kg 3 to 6 mg/day 58.5 to 91 kg 4 to 7 mg/day >91 kg 5 to 7 mg/day Doses above 4 mg/day have not been evaluated in children (ages 6 to12 years) and doses above 7 mg/day have not been evaluated in adolescents (ages 13 to 17 years) In the adjunctive trial which evaluated guanfacine extended-release tablets treatment with psychostimulants, the majority of patients reached optimal doses in the 0.05 to 0.12 mg/kg/day range. Guanfacine extended-release tablet has significantly reduced C max (60% lower), bioavailability (43% lower), and a delayed T max (3 hours later) compared to those of the same dose of immediate-release guanfacine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . The majority of children and adolescents reach optimal doses in the 0.05-0.12 mg/kg/day range. Doses above 4 mg/day have not been evaluated in children (ages 6 to 12 years) and above 7 mg/day have not been evaluated in adolescents (ages 13 to 17 years) [see Clinical Studies (14)] . Table 2: Guanfacine Extended-Release Tablets Dosage Adjustments for Patients Taking Concomitant CYP3A4 Inhibitors or Inducers Clinical Scenarios Starting guanfacine extended-release tablets while currently on aCYP3A4 modulator Continuing guanfacine extended-release tablets while adding a CYP3A4 modulator Continuing guanfacine extended-release tablets while stopping a CYP3A4 modulator CYP3A4 Strong and moderate Inhibitors Decrease guanfacine extended-release tablets dosage to half the recommended level. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended initial dose of guanfacine (as the hydrochloride) when given alone or in combination with another antihypertensive drug is 1 mg daily given at bedtime to minimize somnolence. If after 3 to 4 weeks of therapy, 1 mg does not give a satisfactory result, a dose of 2 mg may be given, although most of the effect of guanfacine is seen at 1 mg (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). When rebound occurs, it does so after 2-4 days, which is delayed compared with clonidine hydrochloride. In most cases, after abrupt withdrawal of guanfacine, blood pressure returns to pretreatment levels slowly (within 2-4 days) without ill effects. If after 3 to 4 weeks of therapy 1 mg does not give a satisfactory result, a dose of 2 mg may be given, although most of the effect of guanfacine tablets are seen at 1 mg (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). When rebound occurs, it does so after 2 to 4 days, which is delayed compared with clonidine hydrochloride. In most cases, after abrupt withdrawal of guanfacine, blood pressure returns to pretreatment levels slowly (within 2 to 4 days) without ill effects.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Guanfacine Tablets, USP is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to guanfacine hydrochloride. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Guanfacine is contraindicated in patients with a history of a hypersensitivity reaction to guanfacine extended-release tablets or its inactive ingredients, or other products containing guanfacine. Rash and pruritus have been reported. History of hypersensitivity to guanfacine, its inactive ingredients, or other products containing guanfacine (4). CONTRAINDICATIONS Guanfacine tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to guanfacine hydrochloride. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Guanfacine extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of a hypersensitivity reaction to guanfacine extended-release tablets or its inactive ingredients, or other products containing guanfacine. History of hypersensitivity to guanfacine extended-release tablets, its inactive ingredients, or other products containing guanfacine ( 4 ). History of hypersensitivity to guanfacine extended-release tablets, its inactive ingredients, or other products containing guanfacine ( 4 ) . History of hypersensitivity to guanfacine extended-release tablet, its inactive ingredients, or other products containing guanfacine ( 4 ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Guanfacine hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to guanfacine hydrochloride.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions The potential for increased sedation when guanfacine hydrochloride is given with other CNS-depressant drugs should be appreciated. The administration of guanfacine concomitantly with a known microsomal enzyme inducer (phenobarbital or phenytoin) to two patients with renal impairment reportedly resulted in significant reductions in elimination half-life and plasma concentration. In such cases, therefore, more frequent dosing may be required to achieve or maintain the desired hypotensive response. Further, if guanfacine is to be discontinued in such patients, careful tapering of the dosage may be necessary in order to avoid rebound phenomena (see Rebound above). Anticoagulants Ten patients who were stabilized on oral anticoagulants were given guanfacine, 1 - 2 mg/day, for 4 weeks. No changes were observed in the degree of anticoagulation. In several well-controlled studies, guanfacine was administered together with diuretics with no drug interactions reported. In the long-term safety studies, guanfacine hydrochloride was given concomitantly with many drugs without evidence of any interactions. The principal drugs given (number of patients in parentheses) were: cardiac glycosides (115), sedatives and hypnotics (103), coronary vasodilators (52), oral hypoglycemics (45), cough and cold preparations (45), NSAIDs (38), antihyperlipidemics (29), antigout drugs (24), oral contraceptives (18), bronchodilators (13), insulin (10), and beta blockers (10). Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions No laboratory test abnormalities related to the use of guanfacine hydrochloride have been identified. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 14 contains clinically important drug interactions with guanfacine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Table 14: Clinically Important Drug Interactions: Effect of other Drugs on Guanfacine Concomitant Drug Name or Drug Class Clinical Rationale and Magnitude of Drug Interaction Clinical Recommendation Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors, e.g., ketoconazole, fluconazole Guanfacine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and its plasma concentrations can be significantly affected resulting in an increase in exposure Consider dose reduction [see Dosage and administration (2.7)] Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inducers, e.g., rifampin, efavirenz Guanfacine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and its plasma concentrations can be significantly affected resulting in a decrease in exposure Consider dose increase [see Dosage and administration (2.7)] Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increase guanfacine exposure. Decrease guanfacine to 50% of target dosage when coadministered with strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (2.7). Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inducers decrease guanfacine exposure. Based on patient response, consider titrating guanfacine dosage up to double the target dosage over 1 to 2 weeks (2.7). See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION and FDA-approved patient labeling. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 14 contains clinically important drug interactions with guanfacine extended-release tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 14: Clinically Important Drug Interactions: Effect of other Drugs on Guanfacine Extended-Release Tablets Concomitant Drug Name or Drug Class Clinical Rationale and Magnitude of Drug Interaction Clinical Recommendation Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors, e.g., ketoconazole, fluconazole Guanfacine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and its plasma concentrations can be significantly affected resulting in an increase in exposure Consider dose reduction [see Dosage and administration (2.7) ] Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inducers, e.g., rifampin, efavirenz Guanfacine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and its plasma concentrations can be significantly affected resulting in a decrease in exposure Consider dose increase [see Dosage and administration (2.7) ] Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increase guanfacine exposure. Decrease guanfacine extended-release tablets to 50% of target dosage when coadministered with strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors ( 2.7 ). Based on patient response, consider titrating guanfacine extended-release tablets dosage up to double the target dosage over 1 to 2 weeks ( 2.7 ). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 14 contains clinically important drug interactions with guanfacine extended-release tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . Table 14: Clinically Important Drug Interactions: Effect of other Drugs on Guanfacine Extended-Release Tablets Concomitant Drug Name or Drug Class Clinical Rationale and Magnitude of Drug Interaction Clinical Recommendation Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors, e.g., ketoconazole, fluconazole Guanfacine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and its plasma concentrations can be significantly affected resulting in an increase in exposure Consider dose reduction [see Dosage and administration ( 2.7 ) ] Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inducers, e.g., rifampin, efavirenz Guanfacine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and its plasma concentrations can be significantly affected resulting in a decrease in exposure Consider dose increase [see Dosage and administration ( 2.7 ) ] Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increase guanfacine exposure. Decrease guanfacine extended-release tablets to 50% of target dosage when coadministered with strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors ( 2.7 ) . Based on patient response, consider titrating guanfacine extended-release tablets dosage up to double the target dosage over 1 to 2 weeks ( 2.7 ) . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 14 contains clinically important drug interactions with guanfacine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Table 14: Clinically Important Drug Interactions: Effect of other Drugs on Guanfacine Concomitant Drug Name or Drug Class Clinical Rationale and Magnitude of Drug Interaction Clinical Recommendation Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors, e.g., ketoconazole, fluconazole Guanfacine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and its plasma concentrations can be significantly affected resulting in an increase in exposure Consider dose reduction [see Dosage and administration (2.7)] Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inducers, e.g., rifampin, efavirenz Guanfacine is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4 and its plasma concentrations can be significantly affected resulting in a decrease in exposure Consider dose increase [see Dosage and administration (2.7)] • Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increase guanfacine exposure. Decrease guanfacine to 50% of target dosage when coadministered with strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors ( 2.7 ). • Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inducers decrease guanfacine exposure. Based on patient response, consider titrating guanfacine dosage up to double the target dosage over 1 to 2 weeks ( 2.7 ). Drug Interactions The potential for increased sedation when guanfacine is given with other CNS-depressant drugs should be appreciated. Anticoagulants Ten patients who were stabilized on oral anticoagulants were given guanfacine, 1-2 mg/day, for 4 weeks. In the long-term safety studies, guanfacine was given concomitantly with many drugs without evidence of any interactions. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions No laboratory test abnormalities related to the use of guanfacine have been identified. Decrease guanfacine to 50% of target dosage when coadministered with strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (2.7) Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inducers decrease guanfacine exposure.

=== KETOCONAZOLE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: PHARMACOLOGICAL ACTION: In vitro, DANIL solution exhibits a potent antimycotic activity. In vivo studies in animal patterns infected with superficial fungi, it is shown that DANIL solution has an excellent therapeutic effect, especially for that caused by Pityrosporum oval. Combined with Clobetasol propionate, a potent anti-inflammatory and anti-pruritic topical corticosteroid agent, DANIL solution has the actions of anti-bacterial, anti-inflammatory, anti-allergic, anti-dandruff and anti-pruritus. Clinical trial reports that the DANIL solution has proved to be more effective and more rapid in treatment of dandruff and seborrheic dermatitis on the scalp than the single Ketoconazole lotion. Animal acute toxicity test and toxicity test for local application and clinical trial indicated that the DANIL solution is safe for use, no allergic or irritant reaction is found. Purpose dandruff Purpose Seborrheic dermatitis,PsoriasisAnti-fungal, Anti itchy Anti Dandruff
Indications: INDICATIONS & USAGE Ketoconazole shampoo, 2% is indicated for the treatment of tinea (pityriasis) versicolor caused by or presumed to be caused by Pityrosporum orbiculare (also known as Malassezia furfur or M. orbiculare ) . Note: Tinea (pityriasis) versicolor may give rise to hyperpigmented or hypopigmented patches on the trunk which may extend to the neck, arms and upper thighs. Treatment of the infection may not immediately result in normalization of pigment to the affected sites. Normalization of pigment following successful therapy is variable and may take months, depending on individual skin type and incidental sun exposure. Although tinea versicolor is not contagious, it may recur because the organism that causes the disease is part of the normal skin flora. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ketoconazole Cream, 2% is indicated for the topical treatment of tinea corporis, tinea cruris and tinea pedis caused by Trichophyton rubrum , T. mentagrophytes and Epidermophyton floccosum ; in the treatment of tinea (pityriasis) versicolor caused by Malassezia furfur (Pityrosporum orbiculare) ; and in the treatment of cutaneous candidiasis caused by Candida spp . and in the treatment of seborrheic dermatitis. EXPIRATION DATE: Three years after the manufactured date. For external use only. Avoid contact with eyes. Keep out of reach of children. Do not exceed prescribed dose. Read package insert carefully before using. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ketoconazole shampoo, 2%, is indicated for the treatment of tinea (pityriasis) versicolor caused by or presumed to be caused by Pityrosporum orbiculare (also known as Malassezia furfur or M. orbiculare ). Use controls flaking, scaling and itching associated with dandruff. Use Temporarily relieves and helps prevent the recurrence of scalp itching, flaking, scaling, redness, and irritation associated with psoriasis and seborrheic dermatitis. Targets Stubborn Dandruff, Seborrheic Dermatitis, and itching ​Prevention, Treatment, and control of fungus that can cause dandruff
Dosage: DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Apply the shampoo to the damp skin of the affected area and a wide margin surrounding this area. Lather, leave in place for 5 minutes, and then rinse off with water. One application of the shampoo should be sufficient. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Cutaneous candidiasis, tinea corporis, tinea cruris, tinea pedis, and tinea (pityriasis) versicolor: It is recommended that ketoconazole cream, 2% be applied once daily to cover the affected and immediate surrounding area. Clinical improvement may be seen fairly soon after treatment is begun; however, candidal infections and tinea cruris and corporis should be treated for two weeks in order to reduce the possibility of recurrence. Patients with tinea versicolor usually require two weeks of treatment. Patients with tinea pedis require six weeks of treatment. If a patient shows no clinical improvement after the treatment period, the diagnosis should be redetermined. Patients with tinea versicolor usually require two weeks of treatment . Seborrheic dermatitis : Ketoconazole cream, 2% should be applied to the affected area twice daily for four weeks or until no clinical clearing. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: External use only. Apply about 5ml of DANIL solution to moist hair, massage it gently to let the solution contact with the scalp thoroughly, after 3~5 minutes, rinse cleanly with water. For treatment purpose , the DANIL solution should be used twice/thrice a week continuously for 2~4 weeks; for prevention purpose, it should be used once every one or two weeks. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply the shampoo to the damp skin of the affected area and a wide margin surrounding this area. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Apply externally to affected area twice daily. It is suggested to use for 2 weeks on ordinary tinea corporis and tinea cruris, for 4 weeks on tinea pedis and tinea manus. SIDE EFFECTS: VIXA SKINEAL has few side effects when used topically. A few instance of irritation or burning sensation may be observed occasionally during the treatment. But usually, it is unnecessary to stop the drug. CONTRAINDICATION: Directions Wet hair thoroughly. Apply shampoo, gently lather and massage for 2 minutes, Rinse thoroughly. Use 2-3 times per week for up to 8 weeks or as directed by a doctor Directions 1 Gently massage scalp shampoo into your wet hair. 2 Leave shampoo for 5-7 minutes in the hair. 3 Gently massage into a lather and rinses cleanly away. 4 For best results, Repeat step 3. adults and children 12 years and over • wet hair thoroughly • apply shampoo, generously lather, rinse thoroughly. Repeat • use every 3-4 days for up to 8 weeks or as directed by a doctor. Then use only as needed to control dandruff Children under 12 years old • Ask a doctor
Warnings: WARNINGS Ketoconazole Cream, 2% is not for opthalmic use. Ketoconazole Cream, 2% contains sodium sulfite anhydrous, a sulfite that may cause allergic-type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people. The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low. Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people. WARNINGS Ketoconazole Cream, 2% is not for ophthalmic use. There is no any special warning. Warnings For external use only. Allergy Alert: Consult a doctor before use if you are allergic to any ingredients in this product. For external use only on the scalp that is broken or inflamed if you are allergic to ingredients in this product do not get into the eyes. If eye contact occurs, rinse thoroughly with water. If the rash appears or the condition worsens does not improve in 2-4 weeks. ask a doctor before use If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Posion Control Center immediately
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Ketoconazole shampoo, 2% is contraindicated in persons who have known hypersensitivity to the active ingredient or excipients of this formulation. CONTRAINDICATIONS Ketoconazole Cream, 2% is contraindicated in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to the active or excipient ingredients of this formulation. CONTRAINDICATIONS Ketoconazole shampoo, 2%, is contraindicated in persons who have known hypersensitivity to the active ingredient or excipients of this formulation.

=== TOBRAMYCIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tobramycin injection is indicated for the treatment of serious bacterial infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms in the diseases listed below: Septicemia in the neonate, child, and adult caused by P. aeruginosa , E. coli , and Klebsiella sp Lower respiratory tract infections caused by P. aeruginosa , Klebsiella sp, Enterobacter sp, Serratia sp, E. coli , and S. aureus (penicillinase- and non-penicillinase-producing strains) Serious central-nervous-system infections (meningitis) caused by susceptible organisms Intra-abdominal infections, including peritonitis, caused by E. coli , Klebsiella sp, and Enterobacter sp. Skin, bone, and skin structure infections caused by P. aeruginosa , Proteus sp, E. coli , Klebsiella sp, Enterobacter sp and S. aureus Complicated and recurrent urinary tract infections caused by P. aeruginosa, Proteus sp, (indole-positive and indole- negative), E. coli , Klebsiella sp, Enterobacter sp, Serratia sp, S. aureus , Providencia sp, and Citrobacte r sp. Aminoglycosides, including tobramycin, are not indicated in uncomplicated initial episodes of urinary tract infections unless the causative organisms are not susceptible to antibiotics having less potential toxicity. Tobramycin may be considered in serious staphylococcal infections when penicillin or other potentially less toxic drugs are contraindicated and when bacterial susceptibility testing and clinical judgment indicate its use. Bacterial cultures should be obtained prior to and during treatment to isolate and identify etiologic organisms and to test their susceptibility to tobramycin. If susceptibility tests show that the causative organisms are resistant to tobramycin, other appropriate therapy should be instituted. In patients in whom a serious life-threatening gram- negative infection is suspected, including those in whom concurrent therapy with a penicillin or cephalosporin and an aminoglycoside may be indicated, treatment with tobramycin may be initiated before the results of susceptibility studies are obtained. The decision to continue therapy with tobramycin should be based on the results of susceptibility studies, the severity of the infection, and the important additional concepts discussed in the WARNINGS box above. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Tobramycin Injection and other antimicrobial drugs, Tobramycin Injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antimicrobial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. INDICATIONS AND USAGE: Tobramycin and dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension is indicated for steroid-responsive inflammatory ocular conditions for which a corticosteroid is indicated and where superficial bacterial ocular infection or a risk of bacterial ocular infection exists. Ocular steroids are indicated in inflammatory conditions of the palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva, cornea and anterior segment of the globe where the inherent risk of steroid use in certain infective conjunctivitides is accepted to obtain a diminution in edema and inflammation. They are also indicated in chronic anterior uveitis and corneal injury from chemical, radiation or thermal burns, or penetration of foreign bodies. The use of a combination drug with an anti-infective component is indicated where the risk of superficial ocular infection is high or where there is an expectation that potentially dangerous numbers of bacteria will be present in the eye. The particular anti-infective drug in this product is active against the following common bacterial eye pathogens: Staphylococci, including S. aureus and S. epidermidis (coagulase-positive and coagulase-negative), including penicillin-resistant strains. Streptococci, including some of the Group A-beta-hemolytic species, some nonhemolytic species, and some Streptococcus pneumoniae . Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterobacter aerogenes, Proteus mirabilis, Morganella morganii, most Proteus vulgaris strains, Haemophilus influenzae and H. aegyptius, Moraxella lacunata, Acinetobacter calcoaceticus and some Neisseria species. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tobramycin and dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension is indicated for steroid-responsive inflammatory ocular conditions for which a corticosteroid is indicated and where superficial bacterial ocular infection or a risk of bacterial ocular infection exists. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tobramycin inhalation solution is indicated for the management of cystic fibrosis in adults and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older with Pseudomonas aeruginosa . Safety and efficacy have not been demonstrated in patients under the age of 6 years, patients with forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV 1 ) <25% or >75% predicted, or patients colonized with Burkholderia cepacia [see Clinical Studies (14) ]. Tobramycin inhalation solution is an aminoglycoside antibacterial indicated for the management of cystic fibrosis in adults and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older with Pseudomonas aeruginosa. ( 1 ) Safety and efficacy have not been demonstrated in patients under the age of 6 years, patients with forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV 1 ) <25% or >75% predicted, or patients colonized with Burkholderia cepacia . ( 1 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE: To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Tobramycin Injection, USP and other antibacterial drugs, Tobramycin Injection, USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. Tobramycin injection is indicated for the treatment of serious bacterial infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms in the diseases listed below: Septicemia in the pediatric patient and adult caused by P. coli , and Klebsiella spp Lower respiratory tract infections caused by P. aeruginos a, Klebsiella spp, Enterobacter spp, Serratia spp, E. coli , Klebsiella spp, and Enterobacter spp Skin, bone, and skin structure infections caused by P. aeruginosa , Proteus spp, E. coli , Klebsiella spp, Enterobacter spp, Serratia spp and S. aeruginosa , Proteus spp (indole-positive and indole-negative), E. coli , Klebsiella spp, Enterobacter spp, Serratia spp, S. aureus , Providencia spp, and Citrobacter spp Aminoglycosides, including tobramycin, are not indicated in uncomplicated initial episodes of urinary tract infections unless the causative organisms are not susceptible to antibiotics having less potential toxicity. In patients in whom a serious life-threatening gram-negative infection is suspected, including those in whom concurrent therapy with a penicillin or cephalosporin and an aminoglycoside may be indicated, treatment with tobramycin may be initiated before the results of susceptibility studies are obtained. The decision to continue therapy with tobramycin should be based on the results of susceptibility studies, the severity of the infection, and the important additional concepts discussed in the WARNINGS box. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tobramycin ophthalmic solution, 0.3 % is a topical antibiotic indicated in the treatment of external infections of the eye and its adnexa caused by susceptible bacteria. Appropriate monitoring of bacterial response to topical antibiotic therapy should accompany the use of tobramycin ophthalmic solution. Clinical studies have shown tobramycin to be safe and effective for use in children. The particular anti-infective drug in this product is active against the following common bacterial eye pathogens: Staphylococci , including S. Streptococci , including some of the Group A-beta-hemolytic species, some nonhemolytic species, and some Streptococcus pneumoniae. Safety and efficacy have not been demonstrated in patients under the age of 6 years, patients with forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV 1 ) < 25% or > 75% predicted, or patients colonized with Burkholderia cepacia [see Clinical Studies (14) ]. Tobramycin is an aminoglycoside antibacterial indicated for the management of cystic fibrosis in adults and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older with Pseudomonas aeruginosa . ( 1 ) Safety and efficacy have not been demonstrated in patients under the age of 6 years, patients with forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV 1 ) < 25% or > 75% predicted, or patients colonized with Burkholderia cepacia. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tobramycin ophthalmic solution USP, 0.3% is a topical antibiotic indicated in the treatment of external infections of the eye and its adnexa caused by susceptible bacteria. Appropriate monitoring of bacterial response to topical antibiotic therapy should accompany the use of tobramycin ophthalmic solution USP, 0.3%.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Tobramycin may be given intramuscularly or intravenously. Recommended dosages are the same for both routes. This insert is for a Pharmacy Bulk Package and is intended for preparing I.V. admixtures only. Dosage recommendations for intramuscular use are for informational purposes only. The patient’s pretreatment body weight should be obtained for calculation of correct dosage. It is desirable to measure both peak and trough serum concentrations (see WARNINGS box and PRECAUTIONS ). Administration for Patients with Normal Renal Function— Adults with Serious Infections : 3 mg/kg/day in 3 equal doses every 8 hours (see Table 3). Adults with Life-Threatening Infections : Up to 5 mg/kg/day may be administered in 3 or 4 equal doses (see Table 3). The dosage should be reduced to 3 mg/kg/day as soon as clinically indicated. To prevent increased toxicity due to excessive blood levels, dosage should not exceed 5 mg/kg/day unless serum levels are monitored (see WARNINGS box and PRECAUTIONS ). Table 3 DOSAGE SCHEDULE GUIDE FOR TOBRAMYCIN INJECTION, USP IN ADULTS WITH NORMAL RENAL FUNCTION (Dosage at 8-Hour Intervals) For Patient Weighing Usual Dose for Serious Infections 1 mg/kg q8h (Total, 3mg/kg/day) Maximum Dose for Life-Threatening Infections (Reduce as soon as possible) 1.66 mg/kg q8h (Total, 5 mg/kg/day) kg lb mg/dose mL/dose* mg/dose mL/dose* q8h q8h 120 264 120 mg 3 mL 200 mg 5 mL 115 253 115 mg 2.9 mL 191 mg 4.75 mL 110 242 110 mg 2.75 mL 183 mg 4.5 mL 105 231 105 mg 2.6 mL 175 mg 4.4 mL 100 220 100 mg 2.5 mL 166 mg 4.2 mL 95 209 95 mg 2.4 mL 158 mg 4 mL 90 198 90 mg 2.25 mL 150 mg 3.75 mL 85 187 85 mg 2.1 mL 141 mg 3.5 mL 80 176 80 mg 2 mL 133 mg 3.3 mL 75 165 75 mg 1.9 mL 125 mg 3.1 mL 70 154 70 mg 1.75 mL 116 mg 2.9 mL 65 143 65 mg 1.6 mL 108 mg 2.7 mL 60 132 60 mg 1.5 mL 100 mg 2.5 mL 55 121 55 mg 1.4 mL 91 mg 2.25 mL 50 110 50 mg 1.25 mL 83 mg 2.1 mL 45 99 45 mg 1.1 mL 75 mg 1.9 mL 40 88 40 mg 1 mL 66 mg 1.6 mL * Applicable to all product forms except Tobramycin Injection, USP, 10 mg/mL (Pediatric) Pediatric Patients ( Greater than 1 Week of Age ): 6 to 7.5 mg/kg/day in 3 or 4 equally divided doses (2 to 2.5 mg/kg every 8 hours or 1.5 to 1.89 mg/kg every 6 hours). Premature or Full-Term Neonates 1 Week of Age or Less : Up to 4 mg/kg/day may be administered in 2 equal doses every 12 hours. It is desirable to limit treatment to a short term. The usual duration of treatment is 7 to 10 days. A longer course of therapy may be necessary in difficult and complicated infections. In such cases, monitoring of renal, auditory, and vestibular functions is advised, because neurotoxicity is more likely to occur when treatment is extended longer than 10 days. Dosage in Patients with Cystic Fibrosis — In patients with cystic fibrosis, altered pharmacokinetics may result in reduced serum concentrations of aminoglycosides. Measurement of tobramycin serum concentration during treatment is especially important as a basis for determining appropriate dose. In patients with severe cystic fibrosis, an initial dosing regimen of 10 mg/kg/day in 4 equally divided doses is recommended. This dosing regimen is suggested only as a guide. The serum levels of tobramycin should be measured directly during treatment due to wide interpatient variability. Administration for Patients with Impaired Renal Function — Whenever possible, serum tobramycin concentrations should be monitored during therapy. Following a loading dose of 1 mg/kg, subsequent dosage in these patients must be adjusted, either with reduced doses administered at 8-hour intervals or with normal doses given at prolonged intervals. Both of these methods are suggested as guides to be used when serum levels of tobramycin cannot be measured directly. They are based on either the creatinine clearance or the serum creatinine of the patient because these values correlate with the half-life of tobramycin. The dosage schedule derived from either method should be used in conjunction with careful clinical and laboratory observations of the patient and should be modified as necessary. Neither method should be used when dialysis is being performed. Reduced dosage at 8-hour Intervals — When the creatinine clearance rate is 70 mL or less per minute or when the serum creatinine value is known, the amount of the reduced dose can be determined by multiplying the normal dose from Table 3 by the percent of normal dose from the accompanying nomogram. An alternate rough guide for determining reduced dosage at 8-hour intervals (for patients whose steady-state serum creatinine values are known) is to divide the normally recommended dose by the patient’s serum creatinine. * Scales have been adjusted to facilitate dosage calculations. Normal Dosage at Prolonged Intervals — If the creatinine clearance rate is not available and the patient’s condition is stable, a dosage frequency in hours for the dosage given in Table 3 can be determined by multiplying the patient’s serum creatinine by 6. Dosage in Obese Patients — The appropriate dose may be calculated by using the patient’s estimated lean body weight plus 40% of the excess as the basic weight on which to figure mg/kg. Intravenous Administration — For intravenous administration, the usual volume of diluent (0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection or 5% Dextrose Injection) is 50 to 100 mL for adult doses. For pediatric patients, the volume of diluent should be proportionately less than that for adults. The diluted solution usually should be infused over a period of 20 to 60 minutes. Infusion periods of less than 20 minutes are not recommended because peak serum levels may exceed 12 mcg/mL (see WARNINGS box). Tobramycin Injection, USP should not be physically premixed with other drugs but should be administered separately according to the recommended dose and route. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Directions for Proper Use of Pharmacy Bulk Package Use Aseptic Technique – Not for Direct Infusion The pharmacy bulk package is for use in a Pharmacy Admixture Service only. 1. For hanger application, peel off the paper liner from both ends of the tape hanger to expose 3/4 in. long adhesive portions. Adhere each end to the label on the bottle. 2. During use, container must be stored and all manipulations performed in an appropriate laminar flow hood. 3. Remove cover from container and cleanse closure with antiseptic. 4. A single entry through the vial closure should be made with a sterile dispensing set which allows measured dispensing of the contents. Transfer individual dose(s) to appropriate intravenous infusion solutions without delay. Use of a syringe with needle is not recommended as it may cause leakage. Multiple entries will also increase the potential of microbial and particulate contamination. The above process should be carried out under a laminar flow hood using aseptic technique. ANY UNUSED PORTION MUST BE DISCARDED WITHIN 4 HOURS. tobramycin-spl-figure DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: One or two drops instilled into the conjunctival sac(s) every four to six hours. During the initial 24 to 48 hours, the dosage may be increased to one or two drops every two (2) hours. Frequency should be decreased gradually as warranted by improvement in clinical signs. Care should be taken not to discontinue therapy prematurely. Not more than 20 mL should be prescribed initially and the prescription should not be refilled without further evaluation as outlined in PRECAUTIONS above. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One or two drops instilled into the conjunctival sac(s) every four to six hours. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For oral inhalation only. ( 2.1 ) The recommended dosage for adults and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older is one single-dose ampule (300 mg) twice daily by oral inhalation in alternating periods of 28 days on drug, followed by 28 days off drug. ( 2.1 ) Dosage is not adjusted by weight. ( 2.1 ) Take doses as close to 12 hours apart as possible; but not less than 6 hours apart. ( 2.1 ) Administer each 300 mg dose by inhalation using a hand-held PARI LC PLUS Reusable Nebulizer with a DeVilbiss Pulmo-Aide compressor. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Dosage Tobramycin inhalation solution is for oral inhalation only [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] . The recommended dosage of tobramycin inhalation solution for both adults and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older is one single-dose ampule (300 mg) administered twice daily for 28 days. Dosage is not adjusted by weight. All patients should be administered 300 mg twice daily. Tobramycin inhalation solution is administered twice daily in alternating periods of 28 days. After 28 days of therapy, patients should stop tobramycin inhalation solution therapy for the next 28 days, and then resume therapy for the next 28 day on/28 day off cycle. The doses should be taken as close to 12 hours apart as possible; they should not be taken less than 6 hours apart. If patients miss a dose, they should take it as soon as possible anytime up to 6 hours prior to their next scheduled dose. If less than 6 hours remain before the next dose, wait until their next scheduled dose. 2.2 Administration Instructions Tobramycin inhalation solution is administered by oral inhalation over an approximately 15-minute period, using a hand-held PARI LC PLUS Reusable Nebulizer with a DeVilbiss Pulmo-Aide compressor. Tobramycin inhalation solution should not be diluted or mixed with dornase alfa or other medications in the nebulizer. Tobramycin inhalation solution is not for subcutaneous, intravenous or intrathecal administration. Prior to administration of tobramycin inhalation solution, read the Patient Information/Instructions for Use for tobramycin inhalation solution for detailed information on how to use tobramycin inhalation solution, and follow the manufacturer’s instructions for use and care of the PARI LC PLUS Reusable Nebulizer and DeVilbiss Pulmo-Aide air compressor. Tobramycin inhalation solution is inhaled while the patient is sitting or standing upright and breathing normally through the mouthpiece of the nebulizer. Nose clips may help the patient breathe through the mouth. Instruct patients on multiple therapies to take their medications, prior to inhaling tobramycin inhalation solution or as directed by their physician. Tobramycin inhalation solution should not be used if it is cloudy, if there are particles in the solution, or if it has been stored at room temperature for more than 28 days. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Tobramycin may be given intramuscularly or intravenously. Administration for Patients with Normal Renal Function Adults with Serious Infections: 3 mg/kg/day in 3 equal doses every 8 hours (see Table 3). Adults With Life-Threatening Infections: Up to 5 mg/kg/day may be administered in 3 or 4 equal doses (see Table 3). Table 3 DOSAGE SCHEDULE GUIDE FOR ADULTS WITH NORMAL RENAL FUNCTION (Dosage at 8-Hour Intervals) For Patient Weighing Usual Dose for Serious Infections Maximum Dose for Life-Threatening Infections (Reduce as soon as possible) 1 mg/kg q8h 1.66 mg/kg q8h kg lb (Total, 3 mg/kg/day) (Total, 5 mg/kg/day) mg/dose mL/dose* mg/dose mL/dose* q8h q8h 120 264 120 mg 3 mL 200 mg 5 mL 115 253 115 mg 2.9 mL 191 mg 4.75 mL 110 242 110 mg 2.75 mL 183 mg 4.5 mL 105 231 105 mg 2.6 mL 175 mg 4.4 mL 100 220 100 mg 2.5 mL 166 mg 4.2 mL 95 209 95 mg 2.4 mL 158 mg 4 mL 90 198 90 mg 2.25 mL 150 mg 3.75 mL 85 187 85 mg 2.1 mL 141 mg 3.5 mL 80 176 80 mg 2 mL 133 mg 3.3 mL 75 165 75 mg 1.9 mL 125 mg 3.1 mL 70 154 70 mg 1.75 mL 116 mg 2.9 mL 65 143 65 mg 1.6 mL 108 mg 2.7 mL 60 132 60 mg 1.5 mL 100 mg 2.5 mL 55 121 55 mg 1.4 mL 91 mg 2.25 mL 50 110 50 mg 1.25 mL 83 mg 2.1 mL 45 99 45 mg 1.1 mL 75 mg 1.9 mL 40 88 40 mg 1 mL 66 mg 1.6 mL *Applicable to all product forms except Tobramycin Injection Pediatric, 10 mg/mL (see HOW SUPPLIED ). Pediatric Patients (greater than 1 week of age): 6 to 7.5 mg/kg/day in 3 or 4 equally divided doses (2 to 2.5 mg/kg every 8 hours or 1.5 to 1.89 mg/kg every 6 hours). Premature or Full-Term Neonates 1 Week of Age or Less: Up to 4 mg/kg/day may be administered in 2 equal doses every 12 hours. Dosage in Patients with Cystic Fibrosis In patients with cystic fibrosis, altered pharmacokinetics may result in reduced serum concentrations of aminoglycosides. Administration for Patients with Impaired Renal Function Whenever possible, serum tobramycin concentrations should be monitored during therapy. They are based on either the creatinine clearance level or the serum creatinine level of the patient because these values correlate with the half-life of tobramycin. Reduced dosage at 8-hour intervals : When the creatinine clearance rate is 70 mL or less per minute or when the serum creatinine value is known, the amount of the reduced dose can be determined by multiplying the normal dose from Table 3 by the percent of normal dose from the accompanying nomogram. Normal dosage at prolonged intervals : If the creatinine clearance rate is not available and the patient’s condition is stable, a dosage frequency in hours for the dosage given in Table 3 can be determined by multiplying the patient’s serum creatinine by 6. nomogram Dosage in Obese Patients The appropriate dose may be calculated by using the patient’s estimated lean body weight plus 40% of the excess as the basic weight on which to figure mg/kg. Intramuscular Administration Tobramycin may be administered by withdrawing the appropriate dose directly from a vial. Intravenous Administration For intravenous administration, the usual volume of diluent (0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection or 5% Dextrose Injection) is 50 to 100 mL for adult doses. Tobramycin injection should not be physically premixed with other drugs but should be administered separately according to the recommended dose and route. Prior to administration, parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration whenever solution and container permit. nomogram Dosage in Obese Patients The appropriate dose may be calculated by using the patient’s estimated lean body weight plus 40% of the excess as the basic weight on which to figure mg/kg. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION In mild to moderate disease, instill 1 or 2 drops into the affected eye(s) every 4 hours. In severe infections, instill 2 drops into the eye(s) hourly until improvement, following which treatment should be reduced prior to discontinuation. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: In mild to moderate disease, instill 1 or 2 drops into the affected eye(s) every 4 hours.
Warnings: WARNINGS See WARNINGS box above. This product contains sodium metabisulfite, a sulfite that may cause allergic-type reactions, including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes, in certain susceptible people. The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low. Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in non-asthmatic people. Serious allergic reactions including anaphylaxis and dermatologic reactions including exfoliative dermatitis, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, and Stevens-Johnson Syndrome have been reported rarely in patients on tobramycin therapy. Although rare, fatalities have been reported (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). If an allergic reaction occurs, the drug should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including Tobramycin, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C. difficile. C. difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD. Hypertoxin producing strains of C. difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality, as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use. Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after administration of antibacterial agents. If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C. difficile may need to be discontinued. Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibiotic treatment of C. difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. Risk of Ototoxicity Due to Mitochondrial DNA Variants Cases of ototoxicity with aminoglycosides have been observed in patients with certain variants in the mitochondrially encoded 12S rRNA gene ( MT-RNR1 ), particularly the m.1555A>G variant. Ototoxicity occurred in some patients even when their aminoglycoside serum levels were within the recommended range. Mitochondrial DNA variants are present in less than 1% of the general US population, and the proportion of the variant carriers who may develop ototoxicity as well as the severity of ototoxicity is unknown. In case of known maternal history of ototoxicity due to aminoglycoside use or a known mitochondrial DNA variant in the patient, consider alternative treatments other than aminoglycosides unless the increased risk of permanent hearing loss is outweighed by the severity of infection and lack of safe and effective alternative therapies. WARNINGS: FOR EYE USE ONLY. NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE. Sensitivity to topically applied aminoglycosides may occur in some patients. Severity of hypersensitivity reactions may vary from local effects to generalized reactions, such as erythema, itching, urticaria, skin rash, anaphylaxis, anaphylactoid reactions, or bullous reactions. If a sensitivity reaction does occur, discontinue use. Prolonged use of steroids may result in glaucoma, with damage to the optic nerve, defects in visual acuity and fields of vision, and posterior subcapsular cataract formation. Intraocular pressure (IOP) should be routinely monitored even though it may be difficult in pediatric patients and uncooperative patients. Prolonged use may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections. In acute purulent conditions and parasitic infections of the eye, steroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection. In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera, perforations have been known to occur with the use of topical steroids. WARNINGS FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE. WARNINGS: See WARNINGS box above. Tobramycin injection contains sodium metabisulfite, a sulfite that may cause allergic-type reactions, including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes, in certain susceptible people. Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including Tobramycin Injection, USP, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. difficile . Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents. Severity of hypersensitivity reactions may vary from local effects to generalized reactions such as erythema, itching, urticaria, skin rash, anaphylaxis, anaphylactoid reactions, or bullous reactions. If a sensitivity reaction to Tobramycin ophthalmic solution, 0.3% occurs, discontinue use. WARNINGS: FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE. Severity of hypersensitivity reactions may vary from local effects to generalized reactions such as erythema, itching, urticaria, skin rash, anaphylaxis, anaphylactoid reaction, or bullous reactions. If a sensitivity reaction to tobramycin ophthalmic solution USP, 0.3% occurs, discontinue use.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS A hypersensitivity to any aminoglycoside is a contraindication to the use of tobramycin. A history of hypersensitivity or serious toxic reactions to aminoglycosides may also contraindicate the use of any other aminoglycoside because of the known cross-sensitivity of patients to drugs in this class. CONTRAINDICATIONS: Epithelial herpes simplex keratitis (dendritic keratitis), vaccinia, varicella, and many other viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva. Mycobacterial infection of the eye. Fungal diseases of ocular structures. Hypersensitivity to a component of the medication. CONTRAINDICATIONS Epithelial herpes simplex keratitis (dendritic keratitis), vaccinia, varicella, and many other viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tobramycin inhalation solution is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any aminoglycoside. Known hypersensitivity to any aminoglycoside ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS: A hypersensitivity to any aminoglycoside is a contraindication to the use of tobramycin. CONTRAINDICATIONS Tobramycin ophthalmic solution, 0.3% is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its components. Known hypersensitivity to any aminoglycoside. ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Tobramycin ophthalmic solution USP, 0.3% is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its components.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concurrent and/or sequential use of tobramycin inhalation solution with other drugs with neurotoxic, nephrotoxic, or ototoxic potential should be avoided. (7.1) Concomitant administration with ethacrynic acid, furosemide, urea, or intravenous mannitol is not recommended due to possible enhancement of aminoglycoside toxicity. (7.2) See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION and FDA- approved patient labeling. Revised: February, 2023 7.1 Drugs with Neurotoxic, Nephrotoxic or Ototoxic Potential Concurrent and/or sequential use of tobramycin inhalation solution with other drugs with neurotoxic, nephrotoxic, or ototoxic potential should be avoided. 7.2 Diuretics Some diuretics can enhance aminoglycoside toxicity by altering aminoglycoside concentrations in serum and tissue. Tobramycin inhalation solution should not be administered concomitantly with ethacrynic acid, furosemide, urea, or intravenous mannitol. The interaction between inhaled mannitol and tobramycin inhalation solution has not been evaluated. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concurrent and/or sequential use of tobramycin with other drugs with neurotoxic, nephrotoxic, or ototoxic potential should be avoided. ( 7.1 ) Concomitant administration with ethacrynic acid, furosemide, urea, or intravenous mannitol is not recommended due to possible enhancement of aminoglycoside toxicity. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Drugs with Neurotoxic, Nephrotoxic or Ototoxic Potential Concurrent and/or sequential use of tobramycin with other drugs with neurotoxic, nephrotoxic, or ototoxic potential should be avoided. Tobramycin should not be administered concomitantly with ethacrynic acid, furosemide, urea, or intravenous mannitol. The interaction between inhaled mannitol and tobramycin has not been evaluated.

=== ACETAZOLAMIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE For adjunctive treatment of: edema due to congestive heart failure; drug-induced edema; centrencephalic epilepsies (petit mal, unlocalized seizures); chronic simple (open-angle) glaucoma, secondary glaucoma, and preoperatively in acute angle-closure glaucoma where delay of surgery is desired in order to lower intraocular pressure. Acetazolamide tablets are also indicated for the prevention or amelioration of symptoms associated with acute mountain sickness in climbers attempting rapid ascent and in those who are very susceptible to acute mountain sickness despite gradual ascent. INDICATIONS AND USAGE: For adjunctive treatment of: chronic simple (open-angle) glaucoma, secondary glaucoma, and preoperatively in acute angle-closure glaucoma where delay of surgery is desired in order to lower intraocular pressure. Acetazolamide extended-release capsules are also indicated for the prevention or amelioration of symptoms associated with acute mountain sickness despite gradual ascent. Acetazolamide tablets, USP are also indicated for the prevention or amelioration of symptoms associated with acute mountain sickness in climbers attempting rapid ascent and in those who are very susceptible to acute mountain sickness despite gradual ascent.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Glaucoma: Acetazolamide should be used as an adjunct to the usual therapy. The dosage employed in the treatment of chronic simple (open-angle) glaucoma ranges from 250 mg to 1 g of acetazolamide per 24 hours, usually in divided doses for amounts over 250 mg. It has usually been found that a dosage in excess of 1 g per 24 hours does not produce an increased effect. In all cases, the dosage should be adjusted with careful individual attention both to symptomatology and ocular tension. Continuous supervision by a physician is advisable. In treatment of secondary glaucoma and in the preoperative treatment of some cases of acute congestive (closed-angle) glaucoma , the preferred dosage is 250 mg every four hours, although some cases have responded to 250 mg twice daily on short-term therapy. In some acute cases, it may be more satisfactory to administer an initial dose of 500 mg followed by 125 or 250 mg every four hours depending on the individual case. A complementary effect has been noted when acetazolamide has been used in conjunction with miotics or mydriatics as the case demanded. Epilepsy: It is not clearly known whether the beneficial effects observed in epilepsy are due to direct inhibition of carbonic anhydrase in the central nervous system or whether they are due to the slight degree of acidosis produced by the divided dosage. The best results to date have been seen in petit mal in pediatric patients. Good results, however, have been seen in patients, both pediatric patients and adult, in other types of seizures such as grand mal, mixed seizure patterns, myoclonic jerk patterns, etc. The suggested total daily dose is 8 to 30 mg per kg in divided doses. Although some patients respond to a low dose, the optimum range appears to be from 375 to 1,000 mg daily. However, some investigators feel that daily doses in excess of 1 g do not produce any better results than a 1 g dose. When acetazolamide tablets are given in combination with other anticonvulsants, it is suggested that the starting dose should be 250 mg once daily in addition to the existing medications. This can be increased to levels as indicated above. The change from other medications to acetazolamide should be gradual and in accordance with usual practice in epilepsy therapy. Congestive Heart Failure: For diuresis in congestive heart failure, the starting dose is usually 250 to 375 mg once daily in the morning (5 mg/kg). If, after an initial response, the patient fails to continue to lose edema fluid, do not increase the dose but allow for kidney recovery by skipping medication for a day. Acetazolamide tablets yields best diuretic results when given on alternate days, or for two days alternating with a day of rest. Failures in therapy may be due to overdosage or too frequent dosage. The use of acetazolamide does not eliminate the need for other therapy such as digitalis, bed rest, and salt restriction. Drug-Induced Edema: Recommended dosage is 250 to 375 mg of acetazolamide once a day for one or two days, alternating with a day of rest. Acute Mountain Sickness: Dosage is 500 mg to 1,000 mg daily, in divided doses using tablets or sustained-release capsules as appropriate. In circumstances of rapid ascent, such as in rescue or military operations, the higher dose level of 1,000 mg is recommended. It is preferable to initiate dosing 24 to 48 hours before ascent and to continue for 48 hours while at high altitude, or longer as necessary to control symptoms. Note: The dosage recommendations for glaucoma and epilepsy differ considerably from those for congestive heart failure, since the first two conditions are not dependent upon carbonic anhydrase inhibition in the kidney which requires intermittent dosage if it is to recover from the inhibitory effect of the therapeutic agent. Interference with Laboratory Tests Sulfonamides may give false negative or decreased values for urinary phenolsulfonphthalein and phenol red elimination values for urinary protein, serum non-protein and for serum uric acid. Acetazolamide may produce an increased level of crystals in the urine. Acetazolamide interferes with the HPLC method of assay for theophylline. Interference with the theophylline assay by acetazolamide depends on the solvent used in the extraction; acetazolamide may not interfere with other assay methods for theophylline. Intravenous therapy may be used for rapid relief of ocular tension in acute cases. Although some patients respond to a low dose, the optimum range appears to be from 375 to 1000 mg daily. Acetazolamide yields best diuretic results when given on alternate days, or for two days alternating with a day of rest. Acute Mountain Sickness: Dosage is 500 mg to 1000 mg daily, in divided doses using tablets or sustained-release capsules as appropriate. In circumstances of rapid ascent, such as in rescue or military operations, the higher dose level of 1000 mg is recommended. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Glaucoma Acetazolamide should be used as an adjunct to the usual therapy. In some acute cases, it may be more satisfactory to administer an initial dose of 500 mg followed by 125 mg or 250 mg every four hours depending on the individual case. Epilepsy It is not clearly known whether the beneficial effects observed in epilepsy are due to direct inhibition of carbonic anhydrase in the central nervous system or whether they are due to the slight degree of acidosis produced by the divided dosage. The best results to date have been seen in petit mal in children. Good results, however, have been seen in patients, both children and adult, in other types of seizures such as grand mal, mixed seizure patterns, myoclonic jerk patterns, etc. Congestive Heart Failure For diuresis in congestive heart failure, the starting dose is usually 250 to 375 mg once daily in the morning (5 mg/kg). Acetazolamide tablets yield best diuretic results when given on alternate days, or for two days alternating with a day of rest. Drug-Induced Edema Recommended dosage is 250 to 375 mg of acetazolamide once a day for one or two days, alternating with a day of rest. Acute Mountain Sickness Dosage is 500 mg to 1000 mg daily, in divided doses. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Glaucoma The recommended dosage is 1 capsule (500 mg) two times a day. Usually 1 capsule is administered in the morning and 1 capsule in the evening. It may be necessary to adjust the dose, but it has usually been found that dosage in excess of 2 capsules (1 g) does not produce an increased effect. The dosage should be adjusted with careful individual attention both to symptomatology and intraocular tension. In all cases, continuous supervision by a physician is advisable. In those unusual instances where adequate control is not obtained by the twice-a-day administration of acetazolamide extended-release capsules, the desired control may be established by means of acetazolamide (tablets or parenteral). Use tablets or parenteral in accordance with the more frequent dosage schedules recommended for these dosage forms, such as 250 mg every four hours, or an initial dose of 500 mg followed by 250 mg or 125 mg every four hours, depending on the case in question. Acute Mountain Sickness Dosage is 500 mg to 1000 mg daily, in divided doses using tablets or extended-release capsules as appropriate. The suggested total daily dose is 8 mg per kg to 30 mg per kg in divided doses. Although some patients respond to a low dose, the optimum range appears to be from 375 mg to 1000 mg daily. Congestive Heart Failure: For diuresis in congestive heart failure, the starting dose is usually 250 mg to 375 mg once daily in the morning (5 mg/kg). Drug-Induced Edema: Recommended dosage is 250 mg to 375 mg of acetazolamide once a day for one or two days, alternating with a day of rest. It is preferable to initiate dosing 24 hours to 48 hours before ascent and to continue for 48 hours while at high altitude, or longer as necessary to control symptoms. The dosage employed in the treatment of chronic simple(open-angle) glaucoma ranges from 250 mg to 1 g of acetazolamide per 24 hours, usually in divided doses for amounts over 250 mg. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Preparation and Storage of Parenteral Solution Each 500 mg vial containing acetazolamide should be reconstituted with at least 5 mL of Sterile Water for Injection prior to use. Reconstituted solutions retain their physical and chemical properties for 3 days under refrigeration at 2° to 8°C (36° to 46°F), or 12 hours at room temperature 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F). CONTAINS NO PRESERVATIVE. Discard unused portion. The direct intravenous route of administration is preferred. Intramuscular administration is not recommended. Glaucoma: Acetazolamide for Injection, USP should be used as an adjunct to the usual therapy. When Acetazolamide for injection, USP is given in combination with other anticonvulsants, it is suggested that the starting dose should be 250 mg once daily in addition to the existing medications. The change from other medications to Acetazolamide for injection, USP should be gradual and in accordance with usual practice in epilepsy therapy. Acetazolamide for injection, USP yields best diuretic results when given on alternate days, or for two days alternating with a day of rest. The use of Acetazolamide for Injection, USP does not eliminate the need for other therapy such as digitalis, bed rest, and salt restriction. Drug-Induced Edema: Recommended dosage is 250 to 375 mg of Acetazolamide for injection, USP once a day for one or two days, alternating with a day of rest. Acetazolamide for injection, USP may produce an increased level of crystals in the urine.
Warnings: WARNINGS Fatalities have occurred, although rarely, due to severe reactions to sulfonamides including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, fulminant hepatic necrosis, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and other blood dyscrasias, and anaphylaxis. Sensitizations may recur when a sulfonamide is readministered irrespective of the route of administration. If signs of hypersensitivity or other serious reactions occur, discontinue use of this drug. Caution is advised for patients receiving concomitant high-dose aspirin and acetazolamide, as anorexia, tachypnea, lethargy, metabolic acidosis, coma, and death have been reported. WARNINGS Fatalities have occurred, although rarely, due to severe reactions to sulfonamides including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, fulminant hepatic necrosis, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and other blood dyscrasias. Caution is advised for patients receiving concomitant high-dose aspirin and acetazolamide, as anorexia, tachypnea, lethargy, coma and death have been reported. WARNINGS: Fatalities have occurred, although rarely, due to severe reactions to sulfonamides including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, fulminant hepatic necrosis, anaphylaxis, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and other blood dyscrasias.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to acetazolamide or any excipients in the formulation. Since acetazolamide is a sulfonamide derivative, cross sensitivity between acetazolamide, sulfonamides and other sulfonamide derivatives is possible. Acetazolamide therapy is contraindicated in situations in which sodium and/or potassium blood serum levels are depressed, in cases of marked kidney and liver disease or dysfunction, in suprarenal gland failure, and in hyperchloremic acidosis. It is contraindicated in patients with cirrhosis because of the risk of development of hepatic encephalopathy. Long-term administration of acetazolamide is contraindicated in patients with chronic noncongestive angle-closure glaucoma since it may permit organic closure of the angle to occur while the worsening glaucoma is masked by lowered intraocular pressure. CONTRAINDICATIONS Acetazolamide therapy is contraindicated in situations in which sodium and/or potassium blood serum levels are depressed, in cases of marked kidney and liver disease or dysfunction, in suprarenal gland failure, and in hyperchloremic acidosis. Long-term administration of acetazolamide is contraindicated in patients with chronic non-congestive angle-closure glaucoma since it may permit organic closure of the angle to occur while the worsening glaucoma is masked by lowered intraocular pressure. CONTRAINDICATIONS: Hypersensitivity to acetazolamide or any excipients in the formulation.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Aspirin - See WARNINGS Acetazolamide modifies phenytoin metabolism with increased serum levels of phenytoin. This may increase or enhance the occurrence of osteomalacia in some patients receiving chronic phenytoin therapy. Caution is advised in patients receiving chronic concomitant therapy. By decreasing the gastrointestinal absorption of primidone, acetazolamide may decrease serum concentrations of primidone and its metabolites, with a consequent possible decrease in anticonvulsant effect. Caution is advised when beginning, discontinuing, or changing the dose of acetazolamide in patients receiving primidone. Because of possible additive effects with other carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, concomitant use is not advisable. Acetazolamide may increase the effects of other folic acid antagonists. Acetazolamide decreases urinary excretion of amphetamine and may enhance the magnitude and duration of their effect. Acetazolamide reduces urinary excretion of quinidine and may enhance its effect. Acetazolamide may prevent the urinary antiseptic effect of methenamine. Acetazolamide increases lithium excretion and the lithium may be decreased. Acetazolamide and sodium bicarbonate used concurrently increase the risk of renal calculus formation. Acetazolamide may elevate cyclosporine levels. Drug Interactions Aspirin - See WARNINGS . Acetazolamide modifies phenytoin metabolism with increased serum levels of phenytoin. Acetazolamide may increase or decrease blood glucose levels. Consideration should be taken in patients being treated with antidiabetic agents. Acetazolamide and sodium bicarbonate used concurrently increases the risk of renal calculus formation. Drug Interactions Aspirin - See WARNINGS.

=== ACONITUM NAPELLUS ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Temporarily relieves coughs due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold. Helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to drain bronchial tubes. Soothes the throat. OTC - PURPOSE SECTION Formulated for symptoms associated with colds and infections such as cough, fatigue, fever, headache and indigestion. Begin at the onset of symptoms. OTC - PURPOSE SECTION Formulated for symptoms associated with food and environmental allergens such as congestion, swollen glands, runny nose, cough, rashes and stomach upset. PURPOSE Relieves • Joint Pain • Back Pain • Muscular Pain USES: Temporarily relieves simple nervous tension.** Purpose Temporarily relieves flu symptoms. Shortens duration and reduces severity of symptoms associated with the common cold and throat/nasal/bronchial irritations: chills/fever, chest congestion, cough, headache, hoarseness, body aches, sore throat, sneezing/runny nose, nasal congestion. USES: Temporarily relieves occasional sleeplessness.** PURPOSE: Aconitum Napellus – dizziness, fever, Anas Barbariae – general flu symptoms, Bryonia – body aches, sinus pain, Eupatorium Perfoliatum – body aches, couch, Gelsemium Sempervirens – chills, fever, fatigue, Influenzinum – general flu symptoms, Ipecacuanha – nausea, vomiting, Nux Vomica – headache, nausea, Phosphorus – congestion, fatigue, Phytolacca Decandra – congestion, sore throat, Sanguinaria Canadensis – diarrhea, headache, Sticta Pulmonaria – cough, sore throat* *This product has not been tested or the uses evaluated by the FDA. HOMEOPATHIC INDICATIONS: For the temporary relief of symptoms of stress such as terror, horror, post traumatic stress, fight or flight response, recurring nightmares, difficulty sleeping, difficulty concentrating, restlessness, and easy irritability.** **These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. They have not been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration.
Indications: Indications & Usage Temporarily relieves coughs due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold. Helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to drain bronchial tubes. Soothes the throat. INDICATIONS & USAGE SECTION Formulated for symptoms associated with colds and infections such as cough, fatigue, fever, headache and indigestion. Begin at the onset of symptoms. INDICATIONS & USAGE SECTION Formulated for symptoms associated with food and environmental allergens such as congestion, swollen glands, runny nose, cough, rashes and stomach upset. USES Uses For the temporary relief of minor: Muscular Pain, Joint Pain, Back Pain, Nerve Pain and Arthritis Pain. ​USES: ​Temporarly relieves simple nervous tension.** Indications & Usage Temporarily relieves flu symptoms. Shortens duration and reduces severity of symptoms associated with the common cold and throat/nasal/bronchial irritations: chills/fever, chest congestion, cough, headache, hoarseness, body aches, sore throat, sneezing/runny nose, nasal congestion. USES: Temporarily relieves occasional sleeplessness.** USES: Reduce duration and severity of flu-like symptoms.* *This product has not been tested or the uses evaluated by the FDA. HOMEOPATHIC INDICATIONS: For the temporary relief of symptoms of stress such as terror, horror, post traumatic stress, fight or flight response, recurring nightmares, difficulty sleeping, difficulty concentrating, restlessness, and easy irritability.** **These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. They have not been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration.
Dosage: Dosage & Administration Directions Shake well before each use. Adults & children 12 years of age and older: Take 2 teaspoons (tsp) (10mL) 1/2 hour before bedtime. Dose may be repeated if necessary. Children under 12 years of age: Consult a doctor. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION Directions: Ages 12 and up, take 6 drops by mouth (ages 0 to 11, give 3 drops) as need or as directed by a health professional. Sensitive person begin with 1 drop and gradually increase to full dose. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION Directions: Ages 12 and up take 6 drops by mouth (ages 0 to 11, give 3 drops) as needed or directed by a health professional. Sensitive persons begin with 1 drop and gradually increase to full dose. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION Directions: Ages 12 and up take 6 pellets (ages 0 to 11, give 3 pellets) as needed or directed by a health professional. Under age 2, crush/dissolve pellets in purified water. Sensitive persons begin with 1 pellet and gradually increase to full dose. Directions Adults and children 12 years and older: 10 drops every 4 hours either under the tongue for MAX absorption or add to a cup of water and drink. Not exceed 60 drops per 24 hours. For children under 12 years: Consult your health professional. DIECTIONS: Adults & children above 12 years: 10 drops orally 3 times daily, or as directed by a health care professional. Dosage & Administration Directions For best results, use at the first sign of symptoms and continue to use for an additional 48 hours after symptoms cease. Shake well before each use. Use only with enclosed dosage cup. Adults & children 13 years of age and older: Take 1½ teaspoon (tsp) (7.5 mL) three times daily. Children 6 to 12 years of age: Take 1 teaspoon (5 mL) three times daily. Children under 6 years of age: consult a doctor. DIRECTIONS: Adults & children above 12 years: 10 drops orally 3 times daily, or as directed by a health care professional. DIRECTIONS: At first sign of the flu take 3 times per day for symptom relief and once per week for maintenance. Place drops under tongue or mix with 1oz of water. Adults: 20 drops per dose. Children: Age 2+: 2 drops for every 10 pounds of body weight up to 20 drops per dose. Best taken away from food. DIRECTIONS: 1-10 drops under the tongue, 2 times a day or as directed by a health professional. Consult a physician for use in children under 12 years of age.
Warnings: Warnings Sore Throat Warning: if sore throat is severe, persists more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by a fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, c onsult a doctor promptly. WARNINGS SECTION WARNINGS: Keep out of reach of children. Do not use if tamper-evident seal is broken or missing. If symptoms worsen or persist for more than a few days, consult a doctor. If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a doctor before use. WARNINGS If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. If symptoms persist or worsen, a health professional should be consulted . Do not use if known sensitivity to T-Relief TM or any of its ingredients exists. WARNINGS: Consult a physician for use in chlidren under 12 years of age. IF PRAGNANT OR BREAST-FEEDING, ask a health care professional before use. KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN. In case of overdose (or accidential ingestion) get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Do not use if TAMPER EVIDENT seal is broken or missing. Warnings Sore throat warning: if sore throat is severe, persists more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by a fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. WARNINGS: IF PREGNANT OR BREAST-FEEDING , ask a health care professional before use. In case of overdose (or accidental ingestion) get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. WARNINGS: Sore throat warning: Severe or persistent sore throat or sore throat accompanied by high fever, headache, nausea, and vomiting may be serious. Consult physician promptly. Do not use more that 2 days or administer to children under 3 years of age unless directed by physician. If symptoms worsen or persist for more than 3 days consult a doctor. If Pregnant or breastfeeding consult a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Use only if safety seal is intact. Store at room temperature. WARNINGS: If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use. Store in a cool, dry place.

=== BETAMETHASONE DIPROPIONATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Betamethasone dipropionate cream (augmented) is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses in patients 13 years of age or older. Betamethasone dipropionate cream (augmented), 0.05% is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses in patients 13 years of age and older. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Betamethasone dipropionate ointment (augmented), 0.05% is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses in patients 13 years of age or older. Betamethasone dipropionate ointment (augmented), 0.05% is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses in patients 13 years of age and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP (Augmented), 0.05% is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses in patients 13 years of age or older. Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP (Augmented), 0.05% is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses in patients 13 years of age and older. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Topical corticosteroids are indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream is a combination of an azole antifungal and corticosteroid and is indicated for the topical treatment of symptomatic inflammatory tinea pedis, tinea cruris, and tinea corporis due to Epidermophyton floccosum, Trichophyton mentagrophytes, and Trichophyton rubrum in patients 17 years and older. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Betamethasone dipropionate cream is a medium-potency corticosteroid indicated for relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses in patients 13 years and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE DIPROLENE ® Ointment is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses in patients 13 years of age or older. DIPROLENE Ointment is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses in patients 13 years of age and older. INDICATIONS AND USAGE: Topical corticosteroids are indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream is a combination of an azole antifungal and corticosteroid and is indicated for the topical treatment of symptomatic inflammatory tinea pedis, tinea cruris, and tinea corporis due to Epidermophyton floccosum, Trichophyton mentagrophytes, and Trichophyton rubrum in patients 17 years and older. Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream contains a combination of clotrimazole, an azole antifungal, and betamethasone dipropionate, a corticosteroid, and is indicated for the topical treatment of symptomatic inflammatory tinea pedis, tinea cruris, and tinea corporis due to Epidermophyton floccosum, Trichophyton mentagrophytes, and Trichophyton rubrum in patients 17 years and older.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of betamethasone dipropionate cream (augmented) to the affected skin areas once or twice daily. Therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved. Betamethasone dipropionate cream (augmented) is a high-potency corticosteroid. Treatment with betamethasone dipropionate cream (augmented) should not exceed 50 g per week because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Betamethasone dipropionate cream (augmented) should not be used with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician. Avoid contact with eyes. Wash hands after each application. Avoid use on the face, groin, or axillae, or if skin atrophy is present at the treatment site. Betamethasone dipropionate cream (augmented) is for topical use only. It is not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. Apply a thin film to the affected skin areas once or twice daily. ( 2 ) Discontinue therapy when control is achieved. ( 2 ) Use no more than 50 g per week. ( 2 ) Do not use with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician. ( 2 ) Avoid use on the face, groin, or axillae, or if skin atrophy is present at the treatment site. ( 2 ) Not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. ( 2 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of betamethasone dipropionate ointment (augmented), 0.05% to the affected skin areas once or twice daily. If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks, reassessment of diagnosis may be necessary. Betamethasone dipropionate ointment (augmented), 0.05% is a super-high-potency topical corticosteroid. Treatment with betamethasone dipropionate ointment (augmented), 0.05% should not exceed 50 g per week because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Betamethasone dipropionate ointment (augmented), 0.05% should not be used with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician. Betamethasone dipropionate ointment (augmented), 0.05% is for topical use only. • Apply a thin film to the affected skin areas once or twice daily. ( 2 ) • Discontinue therapy when control is achieved. ( 2 ) • Limit therapy to no more than 2 consecutive weeks. ( 2 ) • Use no more than 50 g per week. ( 2 ) • Do not use with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician. ( 2 ) • Avoid use on the face, groin, or axillae, or if skin atrophy is present at the treatment site. ( 2 ) • Not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP (Augmented), 0.05% to the affected skin areas once or twice daily. Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP (Augmented), 0.05% is a high-potency corticosteroid. Treatment with Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP (Augmented), 0.05% should not exceed 50 g per week because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP (Augmented), 0.05% should not be used with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician. Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP (Augmented), 0.05% is for topical use only. (2) Discontinue therapy when control is achieved. (2) Use no more than 50 g per week. (2) Do not use with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician. (2) Avoid use on the face, groin, or axillae, or if skin atrophy is present at the treatment site. (2) Not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. (2) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of betamethasone dipropionate cream to the affected skin areas once daily. In some cases, twice daily dosage may be necessary. If an infection develops, appropriate antimicrobial therapy should be instituted. Betamethasone dipropionate products should not be used with occlusive dressings. Treatment of tinea corporis or tinea cruris: Apply a thin film of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream into the affected skin areas twice a day for one week. Do not use more than 45 grams per week. Do not use with occlusive dressings. If a patient shows no clinical improvement after 1 week of treatment with clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream, the diagnosis should be reviewed. Do not use longer than 2 weeks. Treatment of tinea pedis: Gently massage a sufficient amount of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream into the affected skin areas twice a day for two weeks. If a patient shows no clinical improvement after 2 weeks of treatment with clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream, the diagnosis should be reviewed. Do not use longer than 4 weeks. Clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream is for topical use only. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of betamethasone dipropionate cream 0 . 05% to the affected skin areas once daily. In some cases, a twice-daily dosage may be necessary. Betamethasone dipropionate cream is not to be used with occlusive dressings. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of DIPROLENE Ointment to the affected skin areas once or twice daily. DIPROLENE Ointment is a super-high-potency topical corticosteroid. Treatment with DIPROLENE Ointment should not exceed 50 g per week because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . DIPROLENE Ointment should not be used with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician. DIPROLENE Ointment is for topical use only. ( 2 ) Limit therapy to no more than 2 consecutive weeks. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Apply a thin film of betamethasone dipropionate ointment to the affected skin areas once daily. Betamethasone dipropionate ointment should not be used with occlusive dressings. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Treatment of tinea corporis or tinea cruris: Apply a thin film of clotrimazole and betamethasone dipropionate cream into the affected skin areas twice a day for one week. Tinea pedis: Apply a thin film to the affected skin areas twice a day for 2 weeks. ( 2 ) Tinea cruris and tinea corporis: Apply a thin film to the affected skin area twice a day for 1 week. ( 2 ) Not for ophthalmic, oral or intravaginal use.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Betamethasone dipropionate cream (augmented), is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to betamethasone dipropionate, to other corticosteroids, or to any ingredient in this preparation. Hypersensitivity to any component of this medicine. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Betamethasone dipropionate ointment (augmented), 0.05% is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to betamethasone dipropionate, to other corticosteroids, or to any ingredient in this preparation. • Hypersensitivity to any component of this medicine. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Betamethasone Dipropionate Cream USP (Augmented), 0.05% is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to betamethasone dipropionate, to other corticosteroids, or to any ingredient in this preparation. (4) CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation. None. CONTRAINDICATIONS Betamethasone dipropionate cream is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to betamethasone dipropionate, to other corticosteroids, or to any ingredient in this preparation. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS DIPROLENE Ointment is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to betamethasone dipropionate, to other corticosteroids, or to any ingredient in this preparation. CONTRAINDICATIONS: Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None.

=== DEXTROMETHORPHAN POLISTIREX ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Cough suppressant
Indications: Uses temporarily relieves • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep
Dosage: Directions • shake bottle well before use • measure only with dosing cup provided • do not use dosing cup with other products • dose as follows or as directed by doctor • mL = milliliter adults and children 12 years of age and over 10 mL every 12 hours, not to exceed 20 mL in 24 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age 5 mL every 12 hours, not to exceed 10 mL in 24 hours children 4 to under 6 years of age 2.5 mL every 12 hours, not to exceed 5 mL in 24 hours children under 4 years of age do not use Directions • shake bottle well before use • measure only with dosing cup provided • do not use dosing cup with other products • dose as follows or as directed by a doctor adults and children 12 years of age and over 10 mL every 12 hours, not to exceed 20 mL in 24 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age 5 mL every 12 hours, not to exceed 10 mL in 24 hours children 4 to under 6 years of age 2.5 mL every 12 hours, not to exceed 5 mL in 24 hours children under 4 years of age do not use Directions • shake bottle well before use • measure only with dosing cup provided • do not use dosing cup with other products • dose as follows or as directed by doctor adults and children 12 years of age and over 10 mL every 12 hours, not to exceed 20 mL in 24 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age 5 mL every 12 hours, not to exceed 10 mL in 24 hours children 4 to under 6 years of age 2.5 mL every 12 hours, not to exceed 5 mL in 24 hours children under 4 years of age do not use Directions • shake bottle well before use • measure only with dosing cup provided • do not use dosing cup with other products • dose as follows or as directed by a doctor • mL = milliliter adults and children 12 years of age and over 10 mL every 12 hours, not to exceed 20 mL in 24 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age 5 mL every 12 hours, not to exceed 10 mL in 24 hours children 4 to under 6 years of age 2.5 mL every 12 hours, not to exceed 5 mL in 24 hours children under 4 years of age do not use
Warnings: Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product. Allergy Alert: Contains sodium metabisulfite, a sulfite that may cause allergic-type reactions. Ask a doctor before use if you have • chronic cough that lasts as occurs with smoking, asthma or emphysema • cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) Stop use and ask a doctor if • side effects occur. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088. • cough lasts more than 7 days, cough comes back, or occurs with fever, rash or headache that lasts. These could be signs of a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Ask a doctor before use if you have • chronic cough that lasts as occurs with smoking, asthma, or emphysema • cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) Stop use and ask a doctor if • side effects occur. Warnings • cough lasts more than 7 days, cough comes back, or occurs with fever, rash, or headache that lasts.

=== DICLOFENAC POTASSIUM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of diclofenac potassium tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use diclofenac potassium tablets. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS ; Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation ). Diclofenac potassium tablets are indicated: for treatment of primary dysmenorrhea for relief of mild to moderate pain for relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis for relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS: Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation ). Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS: Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation). Diclofenac potassium tablets are indicated: •For treatment of primary dysmenorrhea •For relief of mild to moderate pain •For relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis •For relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of diclofenac potassium immediate-release tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use diclofenac potassium tablets. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS; Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Diclofenac Potassium Capsules are indicated for relief of mild to moderate acute pain in adult and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older. (1) Diclofenac Potassium Capsules are non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug indicated for relief of mild to moderate acute pain in adult and pediatric patients 12 years age and older. (1)
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of diclofenac potassium immediate-release tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use diclofenac potassium tablets. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS ; Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation ). After observing the response to initial therapy with diclofenac potassium tablets, the dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient’s needs. For treatment of pain or primary dysmenorrhea the recommended dosage is 50 mg three times a day. With experience, physicians may find that in some patients an initial dose of 100 mg of diclofenac potassium tablets, followed by 50-mg doses, will provide better relief. For the relief of osteoarthritis the recommended dosage is 100 to 150 mg/day in divided doses, 50 mg twice a day or three times a day. For the relief of rheumatoid arthritis the recommended dosage is 150 to 200 mg/day in divided doses, 50 mg three times a day or four times a day. Different formulations of diclofenac [VOLTAREN ® (diclofenac sodium enteric-coated tablets); Voltaren ® -XR (diclofenac sodium extended-release tablets); diclofenac potassium tablets] are not necessarily bioequivalent even if the milligram strength is the same. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of diclofenac potassium tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use diclofenac potassium tablets. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS: Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation ). After observing the response to initial therapy with diclofenac potassium tablets, the dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient's needs. With experience, physicians may find that in some patients an initial dose of 100 mg of diclofenac potassium tablets, followed by 50 mg doses, will provide better relief. Different formulations of diclofenac [VOLTAREN ® (diclofenac sodium enteric-coated tablets; Voltaren ® -XR (diclofenac sodium extended-release tablets); diclofenac potassium immediate-release tablets)] are not necessarily bioequivalent even if the milligram strength is the same. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS: Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation). For the relief of osteoarthritis the recommended dosage is 100-150 mg/day in divided doses, 50 mg twice a day or three times a day. For the relief of rheumatoid arthritis the recommended dosage is 150-200 mg/day in divided doses, 50 mg three times a day or four times a day. Different formulations of diclofenac (diclofenac sodium enteric-coated tablets; diclofenac sodium extended-release tablets; diclofenac potassium immediate-release tablets) are not necessarily bioequivalent even if the milligram strength is the same. Different formulations of diclofenac (diclofenac sodium enteric-coated tablets; diclofenac sodium extended-release tablets; diclofenac potassium tablets) are not necessarily bioequivalent even if the milligram strength is the same. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS; Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation ). For the relief of osteoarthritis the recommended dosage is 100 to 150 mg/day in divided doses, 50 mg twice a day. or three times a day. Different formulations of diclofenac [VOLTAREN ® (diclofenac sodium enteric-coated tablets); Voltaren ® -XR (diclofenac sodium extended-release tablets); diclofenac potassium immediate release tablets] are not necessarily bioequivalent even if the milligram strength is the same. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dosage for shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (2.1) The dosage is 25 mg four times a day 2.1 General Dosing Instructions Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of Diclofenac Potassium Capsules and other treatment options before deciding to use Diclofenac Potassium Capsules. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [ see Warnings and Precautions (5) ]. For treatment of mild to moderate acute pain in adult and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older, the dosage is 25 mg four times a day. 2.2 Dosage Adjustments in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Patients with hepatic disease may require reduced doses of Diclofenac Potassium Capsules compared to patients with normal hepatic function [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12) ]. As with other diclofenac products, start treatment at the lowest dose. If efficacy is not achieved with the lowest dose, discontinue use. 2.3 Non-Interchangeability with Other Formulations of Diclofenac Different dose strengths and formulations of oral diclofenac are not interchangeable. This difference should be taken into consideration when changing strengths or formulations. The only approved dosing regimen for Diclofenac Potassium Capsules are 25 mg four times a day. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS; Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation ) . Different formulations of diclofenac [VOLTAREN ® (diclofenac sodium enteric-coated tablets); Voltaren ® -XR (diclofenac sodium extended-release tablets); diclofenac potassium immediate-release tablets] are not necessarily bioequivalent even if the milligram strength is the same.
Warnings: WARNINGS Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, including myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke, which can be fatal. Based on available data, it is unclear that the risk for CV thrombotic events is similar for all NSAIDs. The relative increase in serious CV thrombotic events over baseline conferred by NSAID use appears to be similar in those with and without known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease. However, patients with known CV disease or risk factors had a higher absolute incidence of excess serious CV thrombotic events, due to their increased baseline rate. Some observational studies found that this increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events began as early as the first weeks of treatment. The increase in CV thrombotic risk has been observed most consistently at higher doses. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in NSAID-treated patients, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, throughout the entire treatment course, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Patients should be informed about the symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as diclofenac, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events (see WARNINGS ; Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation ). Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery Two large, controlled, clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10 to 14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. NSAIDs are contraindicated in the setting of CABG (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Post-MI Patients Observational studies conducted in the Danish National Registry have demonstrated that patients treated with NSAIDs in the post-MI period were at increased risk of reinfarction, CV-related death, and all-cause mortality beginning in the first week of treatment. In this same cohort, the incidence of death in the first year post-MI was 20 per 100 person years in NSAID-treated patients compared to 12 per 100 person years in non-NSAID exposed patients. Although the absolute rate of death declined somewhat after the first year post-MI, the increased relative risk of death in NSAID users persisted over at least the next 4 years of follow-up. Avoid the use of diclofenac in patients with a recent MI unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If diclofenac is used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia. Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation NSAIDs, including diclofenac, cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events, including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDs. Only one in five patients, who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy, is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding or perforation caused by NSAIDs occurred in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3 to 6 months, and in about 2% to 4% of patients treated for one year. However, even short-term therapy is not without risk. Risk Factors for GI Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or GI bleeding who use NSAIDs had a greater than 10-fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients without these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk of GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include longer duration of NSAID therapy, concomitant use of oral corticosteroids, aspirin, anticoagulants, or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs); smoking, use of alcohol, older age, and poor general health status. Most postmarketing reports of fatal GI events occurred in elderly or debilitated patients. Additionally, patients with advanced liver disease and/or coagulopathy are at increased risk for GI bleeding. Strategies to Minimize the GI Risks in NSAID-treated patients Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest possible duration. Avoid administration of more than one NSAID at a time. Avoid use in patients at higher risk unless benefits are expected to outweigh the increased risk of bleeding. For such patients, as well as those with active GI bleeding, consider alternate therapies other than NSAIDs. Remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during NSAID therapy. If a serious GI adverse event is suspected, promptly initiate evaluation and treatment, and discontinue diclofenac until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. In the setting of concomitant use of low-dose aspirin for cardiac prophylaxis, monitor patients more closely for evidence of GI bleeding (see PRECAUTIONS ; Drug Interactions ). Hepatotoxicity In clinical trials of diclofenac-containing products, meaningful elevations (i.e., more than 3 times the upper limit of normal [ULN]) of aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (also known as SGOT) were observed in about 2% of approximately 5,700 patients at some time during diclofenac treatment (alanine aminotransferase [ALT] was not measured in all studies). In a large, open-label, controlled trial of 3,700 patients treated with oral diclofenac sodium for 2 to 6 months, patients were monitored first at 8 weeks and 1,200 patients were monitored again at 24 weeks. Meaningful elevations of ALT and/or AST occurred in about 4% of patients and included marked elevations (greater than 8 times the ULN) in about 1% of the 3,700 patients. In that open-label study, a higher incidence of borderline (less than 3 times the ULN), moderate (3 to 8 times the ULN), and marked (greater than 8 times the ULN) elevations of ALT or AST was observed in patients receiving diclofenac when compared to other NSAIDs. Elevations in transaminases were seen more frequently in patients with osteoarthritis than in those with rheumatoid arthritis. Almost all meaningful elevations in transaminases were detected before patients became symptomatic. Abnormal tests occurred during the first 2 months of therapy with diclofenac in 42 of the 51 patients in all trials who developed marked transaminase elevations. In postmarketing reports, cases of drug-induced hepatotoxicity have been reported in the first month, and in some cases, the first 2 months of therapy, but can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac. Postmarketing surveillance has reported cases of severe hepatic reactions, including liver necrosis, jaundice, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, and liver failure. Some of these reported cases resulted in fatalities or liver transplantation. In a European retrospective population-based, case-controlled study, 10 cases of diclofenac associated drug-induced liver injury with current use compared with non-use of diclofenac were associated with a statistically significant 4-fold adjusted odds ratio of liver injury. In this particular study, based on an overall number of 10 cases of liver injury associated with diclofenac, the adjusted odds ratio increased further with female gender, doses of 150 mg or more, and duration of use for more than 90 days. Physicians should measure transaminases at baseline and periodically in patients receiving long-term therapy with diclofenac, because severe hepatotoxicity may develop without a prodrome of distinguishing symptoms. The optimum times for making the first and subsequent transaminase measurements are not known. Based on clinical trial data and postmarketing experiences, transaminases should be monitored within 4 to 8 weeks after initiating treatment with diclofenac. However, severe hepatic reactions can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac. If abnormal liver tests persist or worsen, if clinical signs and/or symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dark urine, etc.), diclofenac should be discontinued immediately. Inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity (e.g., nausea, fatigue, lethargy, diarrhea, pruritus, jaundice, right upper quadrant tenderness, and "flu-like" symptoms). If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.), discontinue diclofenac immediately, and perform a clinical evaluation of the patient. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse liver related event in patients treated with diclofenac, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Exercise caution when prescribing diclofenac with concomitant drugs that are known to be potentially hepatotoxic (e.g., acetaminophen, antibiotics, antiepileptics). Hypertension NSAIDs, including diclofenac potassium tablets, can lead to new onset of hypertension or worsening of preexisting hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Patients taking angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, thiazides diuretics or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs (see PRECAUTIONS ; Drug Interactions ). Monitor blood pressure (BP) during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy. Heart Failure and Edema The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists’ Collaboration meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately 2-fold increase in hospitalization for heart failure in COX-2 selective-treated patients and nonselective NSAID-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. In a Danish National Registry study of patients with heart failure, NSAID use increased the risk of MI, hospitalization for heart failure, and death. Additionally, fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients treated with NSAIDs. Use of diclofenac may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions (e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers [ARBs]) (see PRECAUTIONS ; Drug Interactions ). Avoid the use of diclofenac in patients with severe heart failure unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure. If diclofenac is used in patients with severe heart failure, monitor patients for signs of worsening heart failure. Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia Renal Toxicity Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of an NSAID may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, dehydration, hypovolemia, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics and ACE inhibitors or ARBs, and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of diclofenac in patients with advanced renal disease. The renal effects of diclofenac may hasten the progression of renal dysfunction in patients with preexisting renal disease. Correct volume status in dehydrated or hypovolemic patients prior to initiating diclofenac. Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia during use of diclofenac (see PRECAUTIONS ; Drug Interactions ). Avoid the use of diclofenac in patients with advanced renal disease unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening renal function. If diclofenac is used in patients with advanced renal disease, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. Hyperkalemia Increases in serum potassium concentration, including hyperkalemia, have been reported with use of NSAIDs, even in some patients without renal impairment. In patients with normal renal function, these effects have been attributed to a hyporeninemic-hypoaldosteronism state. Anaphylactic Reactions Diclofenac has been associated with anaphylactic reactions in patients with and without known hypersensitivity to diclofenac and in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS ; Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity ). Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity A subpopulation of patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma, which may include chronic rhinosinusitis complicated by nasal polyps; severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm; and/or intolerance to aspirin and other NSAIDs. Because cross-reactivity between aspirin and other NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, diclofenac is contraindicated in patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). When diclofenac is used in patients with preexisting asthma (without known aspirin sensitivity), monitor patients for changes in the signs and symptoms of asthma. Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including diclofenac, can cause serious skin adverse events, such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. NSAIDs can also cause fixed drug eruption (FDE). FDE may present as a more severe variant known as generalized bullous fixed drug eruption (GBFDE), which can be life-threatening. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions and discontinue the use of diclofenac at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Diclofenac is contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) has been reported in patients taking NSAIDs, such as diclofenac potassium tablets. Some of these events have been fatal or life-threatening. DRESS typically, although not exclusively, presents with fever, rash, lymphadenopathy, and/or facial swelling. Other clinical manifestations may include hepatitis, nephritis, hematological abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis. Sometimes symptoms of DRESS may resemble an acute viral infection. Eosinophilia is often present. Because this disorder is variable in its presentation, other organ systems not noted here may be involved. It is important to note that early manifestations of hypersensitivity, such as fever or lymphadenopathy, may be present even though rash is not evident. If such signs or symptoms are present, discontinue diclofenac potassium tablets and evaluate the patient immediately. Fetal Toxicity Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus Avoid use of NSAIDs, including diclofenac potassium tablets, in pregnant women at about 30 weeks’ gestation and later. NSAIDs, including diclofenac potassium tablets, increase the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus at approximately this gestational age. Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment Use of NSAIDs, including diclofenac potassium tablets, at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy may cause fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios and, in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. These adverse outcomes are seen, on average, after days to weeks of treatment, although oligohydramnios has been infrequently reported as soon as 48 hours after NSAID initiation. Oligohydramnios is often, but not always, reversible with treatment discontinuation. Complications of prolonged oligohydramnios may, for example, include limb contractures and delayed lung maturation. In some postmarketing cases of impaired neonatal renal function, invasive procedures, such as exchange transfusion or dialysis were required. If NSAID treatment is necessary between about 20 weeks and 30 weeks gestation, limit diclofenac potassium tablets use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. Consider ultrasound monitoring of amniotic fluid if diclofenac potassium tablets treatment extends beyond 48 hours. Discontinue diclofenac potassium tablets if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice ( see PRECAUTIONS; Pregnancy ) . Hematologic Toxicity Anemia has occurred in NSAID-treated patients. This may be due to occult or gross blood loss, fluid retention, or an incompletely described effect upon erythropoiesis. If a patient treated with diclofenac has any signs or symptoms of anemia, monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit. NSAIDs, including diclofenac, may increase the risk of bleeding events. Comorbid conditions, such as coagulation disorders, concomitant use of warfarin and other anticoagulants, antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase this risk. Monitor these patients for signs of bleeding (see PRECAUTIONS ; Drug Interactions ). The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as diclofenac, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events (see WARNINGS: Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation ). Although the absolute rate of death declined somewhat after the first year post-MI, the increased relative risk of death in NSAID users persisted over at least the next four years of follow-up. Avoid the use of diclofenac potassium tablets in patients with a recent MI unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If diclofenac potassium tablets are used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia. Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation NSAIDs, including diclofenac, cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. If a serious GI adverse event is suspected, promptly initiate evaluation and treatment, and discontinue diclofenac potassium tablets until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. In the setting of concomitant use of low-dose aspirin for cardiac prophylaxis, monitor patients more closely for evidence of GI bleeding (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Hepatotoxicity In clinical trials of diclofenac- containing products, meaningful elevations (i.e., more than 3 times the upper limit of normal [ULN]) of aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (also known as SGOT) were observed in about 2% of approximately 5,700 patients at some time during diclofenac treatment (alanine aminotransferase [ALT] was not measured in all studies). If abnormal liver tests persist or worsen, if clinical signs and/or symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dark urine, etc.), diclofenac potassium tablets should be discontinued immediately. Inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity (e.g., nausea, fatigue, lethargy, diarrhea, pruritus, jaundice, right upper quadrant tenderness, and "flu- like" symptoms). If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.), discontinue diclofenac potassium tablets immediately, and perform a clinical evaluation of the patient. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse liver related event in patients treated with diclofenac potassium tablets, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Exercise caution when prescribing diclofenac potassium tablets with concomitant drugs that are known to be potentially hepatotoxic (e.g., acetaminophen, antibiotics, anti-epileptics). Hypertension NSAIDs, including diclofenac potassium tablets can lead to new onset of hypertension or worsening of preexisting hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Patients taking angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, thiazides diuretics or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Heart Failure and Edema The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists' Collaboration meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately two-fold increase in hospitalization for heart failure in COX-2 selective-treated patients and nonselective NSAID-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. Use of diclofenac may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions (e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers [ARBs]) (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Avoid the use of diclofenac potassium tablets in patients with severe heart failure unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure. If diclofenac potassium tablets are used in patients with severe heart failure, monitor patients for signs of worsening heart failure. No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of diclofenac potassium tablets in patients with advanced renal disease. The renal effects of diclofenac potassium tablets may hasten the progression of renal dysfunction in patients with preexisting renal disease. Correct volume status in dehydrated or hypovolemic patients prior to initiating diclofenac potassium tablets. Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia during use of diclofenac potassium tablets (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Avoid the use of diclofenac potassium tablets in patients with advanced renal disease unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening renal function. If diclofenac potassium tablets are used in patients with advanced renal disease, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. Anaphylactic Reactions Diclofenac has been associated with anaphylactic reactions in patients with and without known hypersensitivity to diclofenac and in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS: Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity ). Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity A subpopulation of patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma which may include chronic rhinosinusitis complicated by nasal polyps; severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm; and/or intolerance to aspirin and other NSAIDs. Because cross- reactivity between aspirin and other NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, diclofenac potassium tablets are contraindicated in patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). When diclofenac potassium tablets are used in patients with preexisting asthma (without known aspirin sensitivity), monitor patients for changes in the signs and symptoms of asthma. Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including diclofenac, can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions and discontinue the use of diclofenac potassium tablets at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Diclofenac potassium tablets are contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) has been reported in patients taking NSAIDs such as diclofenac potassium tablets. Fetal Toxicity Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus Avoid use of NSAIDs, including diclofenac potassium tablets, in pregnant women at about 30 weeks gestation and later. NSAIDs including diclofenac potassium tablets, increase the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus at approximately this gestational age. In some postmarketing cases of impaired neonatal renal function, invasive procedures such as exchange transfusion or dialysis were required. Discontinue diclofenac potassium tablets if oligohydramnios occurs and follow-up according to clinical practice (see PRECAUTIONS: Pregnancy ). If a patient treated with diclofenac potassium tablets have any signs or symptoms of anemia, monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit. NSAIDs, including diclofenac potassium tablets, may increase the risk of bleeding events. Co-morbid conditions such as coagulation disorders, concomitant use of warfarin and other anticoagulants, antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase this risk. Monitor these patients for signs of bleeding (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as diclofenac, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events (see WARNINGS: Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation). Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery Two large, controlled, clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10-14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. NSAIDs are contraindicated in the setting of CABG (see CONTRAINDICATIONS) . Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding or perforation caused by NSAIDs occurred in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3-6 months, and in about 2%-4% of patients treated for one year. Strategies to Minimize the GI Risks in NSAID-treated Patients • Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest possible duration. • Avoid administration of more than one NSAID at a time. • Avoid use in patients at higher risk unless benefits are expected to outweigh the increased risk of bleeding. • Remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during NSAID therapy. • If a serious GI adverse event is suspected, promptly initiate evaluation and treatment, and discontinue diclofenac potassium tablets until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. • In the setting of concomitant use of low-dose aspirin for cardiac prophylaxis, monitor patients more closely for evidence of GI bleeding (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions). Hepatotoxicity In clinical trials of diclofenac- containing products, meaningful elevations (i.e., more than 3 times the ULN) of AST (SGOT) were observed in about 2% of approximately 5,700 patients at some time during diclofenac treatment (ALT was not measured in all studies). In a large, open-label, controlled trial of 3,700 patients treated with oral diclofenac sodium for 2-6 months, patients were monitored first at 8 weeks and 1,200 patients were monitored again at 24 weeks. In that open-label study, a higher incidence of borderline (less than 3 times the ULN), moderate (3-8 times the ULN), and marked (greater than 8 times the ULN) elevations of ALT or AST was observed in patients receiving diclofenac when compared to other NSAIDs. Patients taking angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, thiazides diuretics or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions). Heart Failure and Edema The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists’ Collaboration meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately two-fold increase in hospitalization for heart failure in COX-2 selective-treated patients and nonselective NSAID-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. Use of diclofenac may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions (e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers [ARBs]) (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions). Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia during use of diclofenac potassium tablets (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions). Anaphylactic Reactions Diclofenac has been associated with anaphylactic reactions in patients with and without known hypersensitivity to diclofenac and in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS: Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity). Because cross-reactivity between aspirin and other NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, diclofenac potassium tablets are contraindicated in patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions and discontinue the use of diclofenac potassium tablets at the first appearance of skin reaction or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Diclofenac potassium tablets are contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin rash to NSAIDs (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). Discontinue diclofenac potassium tablets if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice (see PRECAUTIONS: Pregnancy). Hematological Toxicity Anemia has occurred in NSAID-treated patients. Monitor these patients for signs of bleeding (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions). Avoid the use of diclofenac potassium in patients with a recent MI unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If diclofenac potassium is used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occurred in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3 to 6 months, and in about 2% to 4% of patients treated for one year. Strategies to Minimize the GI Risks in NSAID-treated patients: Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest possible duration. In a large, open-label, controlled trial of 3700 patients treated with oral diclofenac sodium for 2 to 6 months, patients were monitored first at 8 weeks and 1200 patients were monitored again at 24 weeks. Because cross-reactivity between aspirin and other NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, diclofenac potassium tablets are contraindicated in patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Fetal Toxicity Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus: Avoid use of NSAIDs, including diclofenac potassium tablets, in pregnant women at about 30 weeks gestation and later. Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment: Use of NSAIDs, including diclofenac potassium tablets, at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy may cause fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios and, in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. Discontinue diclofenac potassium tablets if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice (see PRECAUTIONS; Pregnancy ). If a patient treated with diclofenac potassium tablets has any signs or symptoms of anemia, monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as diclofenac, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events (see WARNINGS; Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation ). Strategies to Minimize the GI Risks in NSAID-treated patients : Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest possible duration. Avoid administration of more than one NSAID at a time Avoid use in patients at higher risk unless benefits are expected to outweigh the increased risk of bleeding. In the setting of concomitant use of low-dose aspirin for cardiac prophylaxis, monitor patients more closely for evidence of GI bleeding (see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ). Hepatotoxicity In clinical trials of diclofenac-containing products, meaningful elevations (i.e., more than 3 times the upper limit of normal [ULN] of aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (also known as SGOT) were observed in about 2% of approximately 5,700 patients at some time during diclofenac treatment (alanine aminotransferase [ALT] was not measured in all studies). Patients taking angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, thiazides diuretics or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs (see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ). Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia during use of diclofenac potassium tablets (see PRECAUTIONS ; Drug Interactions ). Anaphylactic Reactions Diclofenac has been associated with anaphylactic reactions in patients with and without known hypersensitivity to diclofenac and in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma (see CONTRAINDICATIONS, WARNINGS; Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity ). Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including diclofenac, can cause serious skin adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions, and to discontinue the use of diclofenac potassium tablets at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Discontinue diclofenac potassium tablets if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice (see PRECAUTIONS; Pregnancy). Use of diclofenac may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions (e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers [ARBs]) (see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ). Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia during use of diclofenac potassium tablets (see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ). Monitor these patients for signs of bleeding (see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ). Anaphylactic Reactions Diclofenac has been associated with anaphylactic reactions in patients with and without known hypersensitivity to diclofenac and in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS; Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity ). Discontinue diclofenac potassium tablets if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice (see PRECAUTIONS ; Pregnancy). Other factors thatincrease the risk of GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include longer duration of NSAID therapy, concomitant use of oral corticosteroids, aspirin, anticoagulants, or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs); smoking, use of alcohol, older age, and poor general health status. Meaningful elevations of ALT and/or AST occurred in about 4% of patients and included marked elevations (greater than 8 times the ULN) in about 1% of the 3700 patients. Exercise caution when prescribing diclofenac potassium tablets with concomitant drugs that are known to be potentially hepatotoxic (e.g., acetaminophen, antibiotics, antiepileptics). Discontinue diclofenac potassium tablets if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice (see PRECAUTIONS ; Pregnancy ).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Diclofenac is contraindicated in the following patients: Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to diclofenac or any components of the drug product (see WARNINGS ; Anaphylactic Reactions, Serious Skin Reactions ). History of asthma, urticaria, or allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients (see WARNINGS ; Anaphylactic Reactions, Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity ). In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery (see W ARNINGS ; Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Diclofenac potassium tablets are contraindicated in the following patients: Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to diclofenac or any components of the drug product (see WARNINGS: Anaphylactic Reactions , Serious Skin Reactions ). Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients (see WARNINGS: Anaphylactic Reactions , Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity ). In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery (see WARNINGS: Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Diclofenac potassium tablets are contraindicated in the following patients: •Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to diclofenac or any components of the drug product (see WARNINGS: Anaphylactic Reactions, Serious Skin Reactions). •History of asthma, urticaria, or allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients (see WARNINGS: Anaphylactic Reactions, Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity). •In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery (see WARNINGS: Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events). CONTRAINDICATIONS Diclofenac potassium tablets are contraindicated in the following patients: Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to diclofenac or any components of the drug product (see WARNINGS; Anaphylactic Reactions, Serious Skin Reactions ). Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients ( see WARNINGS; Anaphylactic Reactions, Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity ). In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery ( see WARNINGS; Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Diclofenac potassium tablets are contraindicated in the following patients: Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to diclofenac or any components of the drug product (see WARNINGS; Anaphylactic Reactions , Serious Skin Reactions ). Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients (see WARNINGS; Anaphylactic Reactions , Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity ). In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery (see WARNINGS; Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events ). Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients (see WARNINGS; Anaphylactic Reactions, Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Diclofenac Potassium Capsules are contraindicated in the following patients: Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reactions and serious skin reactions) to diclofenac or any components of the drug product [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7, 5.9) ] History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, sometimes fatal, anaphylactic reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7, 5.8) ] In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Diclofenac Potassium Capsules contains gelatin and is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to bovine protein. Known hypersensitivity to diclofenac or any components of the drug product (4) History of asthma, urticaria, or other allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs (4) In the setting of CABG surgery (4) Diclofenac Potassium Capsules contains gelatin and should not be given to patients with known hypersensitivity to bovine protein. (4)
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Studies Voriconazole When co-administered with voriconazole (inhibitor of CYP2C9, 2C19 and 3A4 enzyme), the C max and AUC of diclofenac increased by 114% and 78%, respectively (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Aspirin When NSAIDs were administered with aspirin, the protein binding of NSAIDs were reduced, although the clearance of free NSAID was not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known. See Table 2 for clinically significant drug interactions of NSAIDs with aspirin (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Drug Interactions See Table 2 for clinically significant drug interactions with diclofenac. Table 2. Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Diclofenac Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: Diclofenac and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. The concomitant use of diclofenac and anticoagulants have an increased risk of serious bleeding compared to the use of either drug alone. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Case-control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding (see WARNINGS : HEMATOLOGIC TOXICITY). Aspirin Clinical Impact: Controlled clinical studies showed that the concomitant use of NSAIDs and analgesic doses of aspirin does not produce any greater therapeutic effect than the use of NSAIDs alone. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone (see WARNINGS: GASTROINTESTINAL BLEEDING, ULCERATION, AND PERFORATION ). Intervention: Concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding (see WARNINGS : HEMATOLOGIC TOXICITY). Diclofenac potassium tablets are not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection. ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact: NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. During concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function (see WARNINGS: RENAL TOXICITY AND HYPERKALEMIA ). When these drugs are administered concomitantly, patients should be adequately hydrated. Assess renal function at the beginning of the concomitant treatment and periodically thereafter. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. This effect has been attributed to the NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects (see WARNINGS: RENAL TOXICITY AND HYPERKALEMIA ). Digoxin Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of diclofenac with digoxin has been reported to increase the serum concentration and prolong the half-life of digoxin. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Lithium Clinical Impact: NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15%, and the renal clearance decreased by approximately 20%. This effect has been attributed to NSAID inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of NSAIDs and methotrexate may increase the risk for methotrexate toxicity (e.g., neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction). Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy (see WARNINGS: GASTROINTESTINAL BLEEDING, ULCERATION, AND PERFORATION ). Intervention: The concomitant use of diclofenac with other NSAIDs or salicylates is not recommended. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed-associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 mL/min to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. NSAIDs with short elimination half-lives (e.g., diclofenac, indomethacin) should be avoided for a period of two days before, the day of, and two days following administration of pemetrexed. In the absence of data regarding potential interaction between pemetrexed and NSAIDs with longer half-lives (e.g., meloxicam, nabumetone), patients taking these NSAIDs should interrupt dosing for at least five days before, the day of, and two days following pemetrexed administration. CYP2C9 Inhibitors or Inducers Clinical Impact: Diclofenac is metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes, predominantly by CYP2C9. Co-administration of diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g., voriconazole) may enhance the exposure and toxicity of diclofenac whereas co-administration with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g., rifampin) may lead to compromised efficacy of diclofenac. Intervention: A dosage adjustment may be warranted when diclofenac is administered with CYP2C9 inhibitors or inducers (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: PHARMACOKINETICS ). Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Long-term carcinogenicity studies in rats given diclofenac sodium up to 2 mg/kg/day (approximately 0.1 times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of diclofenac potassium tablets, 200 mg/day, based on body surface area (BSA) comparison) have revealed no significant increase in tumor incidence. A 2-year carcinogenicity study conducted in mice employing diclofenac sodium at doses up to 0.3 mg/kg/day (approximately 0.007 times the MRHD based on BSA comparison) in males and 1 mg/kg/day (approximately 0.02 times the MRHD based on BSA comparison) in females did not reveal any oncogenic potential. Mutagenesis Diclofenac sodium did not show mutagenic activity in in vitro point mutation assays in mammalian (mouse lymphoma) and microbial (yeast, Ames) test systems and was nonmutagenic in several mammalian in vitro and in vivo tests, including dominant lethal and male germinal epithelial chromosomal studies in mice, and nucleus anomaly and chromosomal aberration studies in Chinese hamsters. Impairment of Fertility Diclofenac sodium administered to male and female rats at 4 mg/kg/day (approximately 0.2 times the MRHD based on BSA comparison) did not affect fertility. Based on the mechanism of action, the use of prostaglandin-mediated NSAIDs, including diclofenac potassium tablets, may delay or prevent rupture of ovarian follicles, which has been associated with reversible infertility in some women. Published animal studies have shown that administration of prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors has the potential to disrupt prostaglandin-mediated follicular rupture required for ovulation. Small studies in women treated with NSAIDs have also shown a reversible delay in ovulation. Consider withdrawal of NSAIDs, including diclofenac potassium tablets, in women who have difficulties conceiving or who are undergoing investigation of infertility. Pregnancy Risk Summary Use of NSAIDs, including diclofenac potassium tablets, can cause premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus and fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios and, in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. Because of these risks, limit dose and duration of diclofenac potassium tablets use between about 20 and 30 weeks of gestation, and avoid diclofenac potassium tablets use at about 30 weeks of gestation and later in pregnancy (see WARNINGS: Fetal Toxicity ). Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus Use of NSAIDs, including diclofenac potassium tablets, at about 30 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy increases the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus. Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment Use of NSAIDs at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy has been associated with cases of fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios, and in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of diclofenac potassium tablets in pregnant women. Data from observational studies regarding potential embryofetal risks of NSAID use in women in the first or second trimesters of pregnancy are inconclusive. In animal reproduction studies, no evidence of teratogenicity was observed in mice, rats, or rabbits given diclofenac during the period of organogenesis at doses up to approximately 0.5, 0.5, and 1 times, respectively, the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of diclofenac potassium tablets, despite the presence of maternal and fetal toxicity at these doses (see Data) . Based on published animal data, prostaglandins have been shown to have an important role in endometrial vascular permeability, blastocyst implantation, and decidualization. In animal studies, administration of prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors, such as diclofenac, resulted in increased pre-and postimplantation loss. Prostaglandins also have been shown to have an important role in fetal kidney development. In published animal studies, prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors have been reported to impair kidney development when administered at clinically relevant doses. The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population(s) is unknown. All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect, loss, or other adverse outcomes. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2% to 4% and 15% to 20%, respectively. Clinical Considerations Fetal/Neonatal Adverse Reactions Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus Avoid use of NSAIDs in women at about 30 weeks gestation and later in pregnancy, because NSAIDs, including diclofenac potassium tablets, can cause premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus (see WARNINGS: Fetal Toxicity ). Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment If an NSAID is necessary at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy, limit the use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. If diclofenac potassium tablets treatment extends beyond 48 hours, consider monitoring with ultrasound for oligohydramnios. If oligohydramnios occurs, discontinue diclofenac potassium tablets and follow up according to clinical practice (see WARNINGS: Fetal Toxicity ). Data Human Data Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus Published literature reports that the use of NSAIDs at about 30 weeks of gestation and later in pregnancy may cause premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus. Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment Published studies and postmarketing reports describe maternal NSAID use at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy associated with fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios, and in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. These adverse outcomes are seen, on average, after days to weeks of treatment, although oligohydramnios has been infrequently reported as soon as 48 hours after NSAID initiation. In many cases, but not all, the decrease in amniotic fluid was transient and reversible with cessation of the drug. There have been a limited number of case reports of maternal NSAID use and neonatal renal dysfunction without oligohydramnios, some of which were irreversible. Some cases of neonatal renal dysfunction required treatment with invasive procedures, such as exchange transfusion or dialysis. Methodological limitations of these postmarketing studies and reports include lack of a control group; limited information regarding dose, duration, and timing of drug exposure; and concomitant use of other medications. These limitations preclude establishing a reliable estimate of the risk of adverse fetal and neonatal outcomes with maternal NSAID use. Because the published safety data on neonatal outcomes involved mostly preterm infants, the generalizability of certain reported risks to the full-term infant exposed to NSAIDs through maternal use is uncertain. Animal Data Reproductive and developmental studies in animals demonstrated that diclofenac sodium administration during organogenesis did not produce teratogenicity despite the induction of maternal toxicity and fetal toxicity in mice at oral doses up to 20 mg/kg/day (approximately 0.5 times the maximum recommended human dose [MRHD] of diclofenac potassium tablets, 200 mg/day, based on body surface area (BSA) comparison), and in rats and rabbits at oral doses up to 10 mg/kg/day (approximately 0.5 and 1 times, respectively, the MRHD based on BSA comparison). In a study in which pregnant rats were orally administered 2 mg/kg or 4 mg/kg diclofenac (0.1 and 0.2 times the MRHD based on BSA) from Gestation Day 15 through Lactation Day 21, significant maternal toxicity (peritonitis, mortality) was noted. These maternally toxic doses were associated with dystocia, prolonged gestation, reduced fetal weights and growth, and reduced fetal survival. Diclofenac has been shown to cross the placental barrier in mice, rats, and humans. Labor or Delivery There are no studies on the effects of diclofenac potassium tablets during labor or delivery. In animal studies, NSAIDs, including diclofenac, inhibit prostaglandin synthesis, cause delayed parturition, and increase the incidence of stillbirth. Nursing Mothers Risk Summary Based on available data, diclofenac may be present in human milk. The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother's clinical need for diclofenac potassium tablets and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from the diclofenac potassium tablets or from the underlying maternal condition. Data One woman treated orally with a diclofenac salt, 150 mg/day, had a milk diclofenac level of 100 mcg/L, equivalent to an infant dose of about 0.03 mg/kg/day. Diclofenac was not detectable in breast milk in 12 women using diclofenac (after either 100 mg/day orally for 7 days or a single 50 mg intramuscular dose administered in the immediate postpartum period). Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established. Geriatric Use Elderly patients, compared to younger patients, are at greater risk for NSAID-associated serious cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, and/or renal adverse reactions. If the anticipated benefit for the elderly patient outweighs these potential risks, start dosing at the low end of the dosing range, and monitor patients for adverse effects (see WARNINGS: Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events , Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation , Hepatotoxicity , Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia , PRECAUTIONS: Laboratory Monitoring ). Diclofenac is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of adverse reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function. Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and it may be useful to monitor renal function (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Diclofenac Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: •Diclofenac and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. •Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding (see WARNINGS: Hematological Toxicity). In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone (see WARNINGS: Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation). Intervention: Concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding (see WARNINGS: Hematological Toxicity). ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact: •NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). •In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or have renal impairment, co-administration of an NSAID with ACE inhibitors or ARBs may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Intervention: •During concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. •During concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function (see WARNINGS: Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia). •When these drugs are administered concomitantly, patients should be adequately hydrated. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects (see WARNINGS: Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia). Lithium Clinical Impact: NSAIDs have produced elevations in plasma lithium levels and reductions in renal lithium clearance . Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine’s nephrotoxicity. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy (see WARNINGS: Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation). Intervention: A dosage adjustment may be warranted when diclofenac is administered with CYP2C9 inhibitors or inducers (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacokinetics). Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding (see WARNINGS: Hematological Toxicity ). Intervention: Concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding (see WARNINGS: Hematological Toxicity ). Diuretics Clinical Impact: Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, showed that NSAIDs reduced the natriuretic effect of loop diuretics (e.g., furosemide) and thiazide diuretics in some patients. Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. CYP2C9 Inhibitors or Inducers: Clinical Impact: Diclofenac is metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes, predominantly by CYP2C9. Co-administration of diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g. voriconazole) may enhance the exposure and toxicity of diclofenac whereas coadministration with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g. rifampin) may lead to compromised efficacy of diclofenac. Table 2: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Diclofenac Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: Diclofenac and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding (see WARNINGS; Hematologic Toxicity ). In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone (see WARNINGS; Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation ). Intervention: Concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding (see WARNINGS; Hematological Toxicity ). During concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function (see WARNINGS; Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia ). Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects (see WARNINGS; Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia ) Digoxin Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of diclofenac with digoxin has been reported to increase the serum concentration and prolong the half-life of digoxin. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy (see WARNINGS; Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation ) . Intervention: A dosage adjustment may be warranted when diclofenac is administered with CYP2C9 inhibitors or inducers (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY; Pharmacokinetics ). NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy (see WARNINGS; Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation ). Co- administration of diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See Table 3 for clinically significant drug interactions with diclofenac. Table 3: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with diclofenac Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: Diclofenac and anticoagulants such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. Intervention: Monitor patients with concomitant use of Diclofenac Potassium Capsules with anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin), antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for signs of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. In a clinical study, the concomitant use of an NSAID and aspirin was associated with a significantly increased incidence of GI adverse reactions as compared to use of the NSAID alone [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Intervention: Concomitant use of Diclofenac Potassium Capsules and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] Diclofenac Potassium Capsules are not a substitute for low dose aspirin for cardiovascular protection ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact: NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta-blockers (including propranolol). Intervention: During concomitant use of Diclofenac Potassium Capsules and ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, or beta-blockers, monitor blood pressure to ensure that the desired blood pressure is obtained. During concomitant use of Diclofenac Potassium Capsules and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs in patients who are elderly, volume-depleted, or have impaired renal function, monitor for signs of worsening renal function [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Intervention: During concomitant use of Diclofenac Potassium Capsules with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Intervention: During concomitant use of Diclofenac Potassium Capsules and digoxin, monitor serum digoxin levels. Intervention: During concomitant use of Diclofenac Potassium Capsules and lithium, monitor patients for signs of lithium toxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of Diclofenac Potassium Capsules and methotrexate, monitor patients for methotrexate toxicity. Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of Diclofenac Potassium Capsules and cyclosporine may increase cyclosporine's nephrotoxicity. Intervention: During concomitant use of Diclofenac Potassium Capsules and cyclosporine, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function. NSAIDs and Salicylates Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of diclofenac with other NSAIDs or salicylates (e.g., diflunisal, salsalate) increases the risk of GI toxicity, with little or no increase in efficacy [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Pemetrexed Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of Diclofenac Potassium Capsules and pemetrexed may increase the risk of pemetrexed associated myelosuppression, renal, and GI toxicity (see the pemetrexed prescribing information). Intervention: During concomitant use of Diclofenac Potassium Capsules and pemetrexed, in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance ranges from 45 to 79 mL/min, monitor for myelosuppression, renal and GI toxicity. CYP2C9 Inhibitors or Inducers: Clinical Impact Diclofenac is metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes, predominantly by CYP2C9. voriconazole) may enhance the exposure and toxicity of diclofenac whereas co- administration with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g. Intervention: A dosage adjustment may be warranted when diclofenac is administered with CYP2C9 inhibitors or inducers [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g. warfarin, aspirin, SSRIs/SN RIs): Monitor patients for bleeding who are concomitantly taking Diclofenac Potassium Capsules with drugs that interfere with hemostasis. Concomitant use of Diclofenac Potassium Capsules and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended (7) ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers (ARB), or Beta- Blockers: Concomitant use with Diclofenac Potassium Capsules may diminish the antihypertensive effect of these drugs. Monitor blood pressure (7) ACE Inhibitors and A RBs: Concomitant use with Diclofenac Potassium Capsules in elderly, volume depleted, or those with renal impairment may result in deterioration of renal function. In such high risk patients, monitor for signs of worsening renal function (7) Diuretics : NSAIDs can reduce natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazide diuretics. Monitor patients to assure diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects (7) Digoxin : Concomitant use with Diclofenac Potassium Capsules can increase serum concentration and prolong half-life of digoxin. Monitor serum digoxin levels (7) Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Diclofenac Drugs That Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact: Diclofenac and anticoagulants, such as warfarin have a synergistic effect on bleeding. Case- control and cohort epidemiological studies showed that concomitant use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and an NSAID may potentiate the risk of bleeding more than an NSAID alone. Intervention: Concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets and analgesic doses of aspirin is not generally recommended because of the increased risk of bleeding (see WARNINGS; Hematologic Toxicity ). ACE Inhibitors, Angiotensin Receptor Blockers, and Beta-Blockers Clinical Impact: NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), or beta- blockers (including propranolol). Intervention: During concomitant use of diclofenac potassium tablets with diuretics, observe patients for signs of worsening renal function, in addition to assuring diuretic efficacy including antihypertensive effects (see WARNINGS; Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia ). Co-administration of diclofenac with CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g., voriconazole) may enhance the exposure and toxicity of diclofenac whereas co- administration with CYP2C9 inducers (e.g., rifampin) may lead to compromised efficacy of diclofenac.

=== METAXALONE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metaxalone is indicated as an adjunct to rest, physical therapy, and other measures for the relief of discomforts associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions. The mode of action of this drug has not been clearly identified, but may be related to its sedative properties. Metaxalone does not directly relax tense skeletal muscles in man. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metaxalone tablets are indicated as an adjunct to rest, physical therapy, and other measures for the relief of discomfort associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older. Metaxalone tablet is a muscle relaxant indicated as an adjunct to rest, physical therapy, and other measures for the relief of discomforts associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older. ( 1 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metaxalone tablets are indicated as an adjunct to rest, physical therapy, and other measures for the relief of discomforts associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metaxalone is indicated as an adjunct to rest, physical therapy, and other measures for the relief of discomfort associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older. Metaxalone is a muscle relaxant indicated as an adjunct to rest, physical therapy, and other measures for the relief of discomforts associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older. Metaxalone tablets are a muscle relaxant indicated as an adjunct to rest, physical therapy, and other measures for the relief of discomforts associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose for adults and children over 12 years of age is one 800 mg tablet three to four times a day. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of metaxalone tablets in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older 800 mg tablet orally three to four times a day [see Use in Specific Populations (8) ]. Metaxalone tablets, 800 mg are not substitutable on a mg to mg basis with Metaxalone Tablets, 640 mg [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. When it is appropriate to switch: Switch only in patients who have been taking metaxalone tablets, 640 mg on an empty stomach. Stop metaxalone tablets, 640 mg three times a day and start metaxalone tablets, 800 mg three times a day on an empty stomach, OR stop metaxalone tablets 640 mg four times a day and start metaxalone tablets, 800 mg four times a day on an empty stomach. Do not switch from metaxalone tablets, 640 mg to metaxalone tablets, 800 mg when the patient is taking food during administration. Recommended dosage of metaxalone tablets in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older is 800 mg tablet orally three to four times a day. ( 2 ) Metaxalone tablets, 800 mg are not substitutable on a mg to mg basis with Metaxalone Tablets, 640 mg. When it is appropriate to switch, see the Full Prescribing Information on switching instructions. ( 2 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of metaxalone in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older is 800 mg orally three to four times a day [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 )] . Metaxalone Tablets 800 mg are not substitutable on a mg to mg basis with Metaxalone Tablets, 640 mg [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . When it is appropriate to switch: • Switch only in patients who have been taking Metaxalone Tablets, 640 mg on an empty stomach. • Stop Metaxalone Tablets, 640 mg three times a day and start Metaxalone Tablets 800 mg three times a day on an empty stomach, OR stop Metaxalone Tablets 640 mg four times a day and start Metaxalone Tablets 800 mg four times a day on an empty stomach. • Recommended dosage of metaxalone in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older is 800 mg orally three to four times a day. ( 2 ) • Metaxalone Tablets 800 mg are not substitutable on a mg to mg basis with Metaxalone Tablets, 640 mg. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of metaxalone tablets in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older is two 400 mg tablets (800 mg) or one 800 mg tablet orally three to four times a day [see Use in Specific Populations (8) ] . Metaxalone tablets, 400 mg and 800 mg are not substitutable on a mg to mg basis with Metaxalone Tablets, 640 mg [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Stop metaxalone tablets, 640 mg three times a day and start metaxalone tablets, 800 mg or two 400 mg tablets three times a day on an empty stomach, OR stop metaxalone tablets 640 mg four times a day and start metaxalone tablets, 800 mg or two 400 mg tablets four times a day on an empty stomach. Do not switch from metaxalone tablets, 640 mg to metaxalone tablets, 800 mg or two 400 mg tablets when the patient is taking food during administration. Recommended dosage of metaxalone tablets in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older is two 400 mg tablets (800 mg) or one 800 mg tablet orally three to four times a day. ( 2 ) Metaxalone tablets, 400 mg and 800 mg are not substitutable on a mg to mg basis with Metaxalone Tablets, 640 mg. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of metaxalone tablets in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older is 800 mg orally three to four times a day [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 )]. Metaxalone tablets 800 mg are not substitutable on a mg to mg basis with metaxalone tablets, 640 mg [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Stop metaxalone tablets, 640 mg three times a day and start metaxalone tablets 800 mg three times a day on an empty stomach, OR stop metaxalone tablets 640 mg four times a day and start metaxalone tablets 800 mg four times a day on an empty stomach. Do not switch from metaxalone tablets, 640 mg to metaxalone tablets when the patient is taking food during administration. Recommended dosage of metaxalone tablets in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older is 800 mg orally three to four times a day. ( 2 ) Metaxalone tablets 800 mg are not substitutable on a mg to mg basis with metaxalone tablets, 640 mg. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of metaxalone in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older is 800 mg orally three to four times a day [see Use in Specific Populations (8) ]. Metaxalone tablets 800 mg are not substitutable on a mg to mg basis with metaxalone tablets, 640 mg [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Do not switch from metaxalone tablets, 640 mg to metaxalone tablets 800 mg when the patient is taking food during administration. Recommended dosage of metaxalone in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older is 800 mg orally three to four times a day.
Warnings: WARNINGS Serotonin Syndrome Cases of serotonin syndrome, a potentially life-threatening condition, have been reported during concomitant use of serotonergic drugs with Metaxalone used within the recommended dosage range (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ) and with Metaxalone as a single agent taken at doses higher than the recommended dose (see OVERDOSAGE ). Serotonergic drugs include selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, opioids (particularly fentanyl, meperidine, and methadone), drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), and drugs that impair metabolism of serotonin (including monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors, both those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, hyperthermia), neuromuscular aberrations (e.g., hyperreflexia, incoordination, rigidity), and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). The onset of symptoms generally occurs within several hours to a few days, but may occur later than that. Discontinue Metaxalone if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Risks from Concomitant Use with Alcohol or other CNS Depressants The sedative effects of Metaxalone and other CNS depressants (e.g., alcohol, benzodiazepines, opioids, tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs)) may be additive. Exercise caution with patients who take more than one of these CNS depressants simultaneously. Follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). Serotonergic drugs include selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT 3 receptor antagonists, opioids (particularly fentanyl, meperidine, and methadone), drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), and drugs that impair metabolism of serotonin (including monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors, both those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to any components of this product. Known tendency to drug induced, hemolytic, or other anemias. Significantly impaired renal or hepatic function. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Metaxalone tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Known hypersensitivity to any component of metaxalone tablets. Severe renal or hepatic impairment. Known hypersensitivity to any components of this product. ( 4 ) Known tendency to drug induced, hemolytic, or other anemias. ( 4 ) Severe renal or hepatic impairment. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Metaxalone is contraindicated in patients with: • Known hypersensitivity to any component of metaxalone. • Known tendency to drug induced, hemolytic, or other anemias. • Severe renal or hepatic impairment. • Known hypersensitivity to any components of this product. ( 4 ) • Known tendency to drug induced, hemolytic, or other anemias. ( 4 ) • Severe renal or hepatic impairment. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Metaxalone is contraindicated in patients with: Known hypersensitivity to any component of metaxalone.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions CNS Depressants : The sedative effects of Metaxalone and other CNS depressants (e.g., alcohol, benzodiazepines, opioids, tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs)) may be additive. Exercise caution with patients who take more than one of these CNS depressants simultaneously. Follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation (see WARNINGS ). Serotonergic Drugs : Serotonin syndrome has resulted from concomitant use of serotonergic drugs with Metaxalone used within the recommended dosage range (see WARNINGS ). If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue Metaxalone if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Examples of serotonergic drugs include: selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, opioids (particularly fentanyl, meperidine, and methadone), drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Serotonergic Drugs If concomitant use of metaxalone tablets and another serotoneric drug is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage modification. Discontinue metaxalone tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected or if it occurs. Serotonin syndrome has resulted from concomitant use of metaxalone tablets (within the recommended dosage range) with other serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Adverse Reactions (6) ]. Serotonergic drugs include selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, opioids (particularly fentanyl, meperidine, and methadone), drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), and drugs that impair metabolism of serotonin (including monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors, both those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). 7.2 CNS Depressants If concomitant use of metaxalone tablets and another CNS depressant is warranted, closely monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. Due to the additive pharmacologic effect, concomitant use of metaxalone tablets with other CNS depressants may increase the risk of sedation and respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 7.3 Interaction of Metaxalone with Benedict’s Tests False-positive Benedict's tests, due to an unknown reducing substance, have been noted in metaxalone-treated patients. A glucose-specific test will differentiate findings. Drug Interactions CNS Depressants The sedative effects of metaxalone and other CNS depressants (e.g., alcohol, benzodiazepines, opioids, tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs)) may be additive. Serotonergic Drugs Serotonin syndrome has resulted from concomitant use of serotonergic drugs with metaxalone used within the recommended dosage range (see WARNINGS ). Examples of serotonergic drugs include: selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT 3 receptor antagonists, opioids (particularly fentanyl, meperidine, and methadone), drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Serotonergic Drugs If concomitant use of metaxalone and another serotoneric drug is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage modification. Discontinue metaxalone if serotonin syndrome is suspected or if it occurs. Serotonin syndrome has resulted from concomitant use of metaxalone (within the recommended dosage range) with other serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 )] . 7.2 CNS Depressants If concomitant use of metaxalone and another CNS depressant is warranted, closely monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. Due to the additive pharmacologic effect, concomitant use of metaxalone with other CNS depressants may increase the risk of sedation and respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Serotonin syndrome has resulted from concomitant use of metaxalone tablets (within the recommended dosage range) with other serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Adverse Reactions (6) ] . Due to the additive pharmacologic effect, concomitant use of metaxalone tablets with other CNS depressants may increase the risk of sedation and respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 7.3 Interaction of Metaxalone with Benedict’s Tests False-positive Benedict’s tests, due to an unknown reducing substance, have been noted in metaxalone-treated patients. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Serotonergic Drugs If concomitant use of metaxalone tablets and another serotonergic drug is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage modification. Serotonin syndrome has resulted from concomitant use of metaxalone tablets (within the recommended dosage range) with other serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 )]. Due to the additive pharmacologic effect, concomitant use of metaxalone tablets with other CNS depressants may increase the risk of sedation and respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. 7.3 Interaction of Metaxalone Tablets with Benedict’s Tests False-positive Benedict's tests, due to an unknown reducing substance, have been noted in metaxalone tablets-treated patients. Serotonin syndrome has resulted from concomitant use of metaxalone (within the recommended dosage range) with other serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Adverse Reactions (6) ]. Due to the additive pharmacologic effect, concomitant use of metaxalone with other CNS depressants may increase the risk of sedation and respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ].

=== WARFARIN SODIUM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Warfarin sodium tablets are indicated for: Prophylaxis and treatment of venous thrombosis and its extension, pulmonary embolism (PE). Prophylaxis and treatment of thromboembolic complications associated with atrial fibrillation (AF) and/or cardiac valve replacement. Reduction in the risk of death, recurrent myocardial infarction (MI), and thromboembolic events such as stroke or systemic embolization after myocardial infarction. Limitations of Use Warfarin sodium tablets have no direct effect on an established thrombus, nor does it reverse ischemic tissue damage. Once a thrombus has occurred, however, the goals of anticoagulant treatment are to prevent further extension of the formed clot and to prevent secondary thromboembolic complications that may result in serious and possibly fatal sequelae. Warfarin sodium tablets are a vitamin K antagonist indicated for: Prophylaxis and treatment of venous thrombosis and its extension, pulmonary embolism ( 1 ) Prophylaxis and treatment of thromboembolic complications associated with atrial fibrillation and/or cardiac valve replacement ( 1 ) Reduction in the risk of death, recurrent myocardial infarction, and thromboembolic events such as stroke or systemic embolization after myocardial infarction ( 1 ) Limitations of Use Warfarin sodium tablets have no direct effect on an established thrombus, nor does it reverse ischemic tissue damage. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE JANTOVEN ® is indicated for: Prophylaxis and treatment of venous thrombosis and its extension, pulmonary embolism (PE). Limitations of Use Warfarin Sodium has no direct effect on an established thrombus, nor does it reverse ischemic tissue damage. JANTOVEN is a vitamin K antagonist indicated for: Prophylaxis and treatment of venous thrombosis and its extension, pulmonary embolism ( 1 ) Prophylaxis and treatment of thromboembolic complications associated with atrial fibrillation and/or cardiac valve replacement ( 1 ) Reduction in the risk of death, recurrent myocardial infarction, and thromboembolic events such as stroke or systemic embolization after myocardial infarction ( 1 ) Limitations of Use Warfarin Sodium has no direct effect on an established thrombus, nor does it reverse ischemic tissue damage. Warfarin sodium tablets are vitamin K antagonist indicated for: Prophylaxis and treatment of venous thrombosis and its extension, pulmonary embolism. (1) Prophylaxis and treatment of thromboembolic complications associated with atrial fibrillation and/or cardiac valve replacement. (1) Reduction in the risk of death, recurrent myocardial infarction, and thromboembolic events such as stroke or systemic embolization after myocardial infarction. (1) Limitations of Use Warfarin sodium tablets have no direct effect on an established thrombus, nor does it reverse ischemic tissue damage. (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Warfarin sodium tablets, USP are indicated for: Prophylaxis and treatment of venous thrombosis and its extension, pulmonary embolism (PE). Warfarin sodium is a vitamin K antagonist indicated for: Prophylaxis and treatment of venous thrombosis and its extension, pulmonary embolism ( 1 ) Prophylaxis and treatment of thromboembolic complications associated with atrial fibrillation and/or cardiac valve replacement ( 1 ) Reduction in the risk of death, recurrent myocardial infarction, and thromboembolic events such as stroke or systemic embolization after myocardial infarction ( 1 ) Limitations of Use Warfarin sodium has no direct effect on an established thrombus, nor does it reverse ischemic tissue damage. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use Warfarin sodium has no direct effect on an established thrombus, nor does it reverse ischemic tissue damage.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Individualize dosing regimen for each patient, and adjust based on INR response. ( 2.1 , 2.2 ) Knowledge of genotype can inform initial dose selection. ( 2.3 ) Monitoring: Obtain daily INR determinations upon initiation until stable in the therapeutic range. Obtain subsequent INR determinations every 1 to 4 weeks. ( 2.4 ) Review conversion instructions from other anticoagulants. ( 2.8 ) 2.1 Individualized Dosing The dosage and administration of warfarin sodium tablets must be individualized for each patient according to the patient’s International Normalized Ratio (INR) response to the drug. Adjust the dose based on the patient’s INR and the condition being treated. Consult the latest evidence-based clinical practice guidelines regarding the duration and intensity of anticoagulation for the indicated conditions. 2.2 Recommended Target INR Ranges and Durations for Individual Indications An INR of greater than 4 appears to provide no additional therapeutic benefit in most patients and is associated with a higher risk of bleeding. Venous Thromboembolism (including deep venous thrombosis [DVT] and PE) Adjust the warfarin dose to maintain a target INR of 2.5 (INR range, 2 to 3) for all treatment durations. The duration of treatment is based on the indication as follows: For patients with a DVT or PE secondary to a transient (reversible) risk factor, treatment with warfarin for 3 months is recommended. For patients with an unprovoked DVT or PE, treatment with warfarin is recommended for at least 3 months. After 3 months of therapy, evaluate the risk-benefit ratio of long-term treatment for the individual patient. For patients with two episodes of unprovoked DVT or PE, long-term treatment with warfarin is recommended. For a patient receiving long-term anticoagulant treatment, periodically reassess the risk-benefit ratio of continuing such treatment in the individual patient. Atrial Fibrillation In patients with non-valvular AF, anticoagulate with warfarin to target INR of 2.5 (range, 2 to 3). In patients with non-valvular AF that is persistent or paroxysmal and at high risk of stroke (i.e., having any of the following features: prior ischemic stroke, transient ischemic attack, or systemic embolism, or 2 of the following risk factors: age greater than 75 years, moderately or severely impaired left ventricular systolic function and/or heart failure, history of hypertension, or diabetes mellitus), long-term anticoagulation with warfarin is recommended. In patients with non-valvular AF that is persistent or paroxysmal and at an intermediate risk of ischemic stroke (i.e., having 1 of the following risk factors: age greater than 75 years, moderately or severely impaired left ventricular systolic function and/or heart failure, history of hypertension, or diabetes mellitus), long-term anticoagulation with warfarin is recommended. For patients with AF and mitral stenosis, long-term anticoagulation with warfarin is recommended. For patients with AF and prosthetic heart valves, long-term anticoagulation with warfarin is recommended; the target INR may be increased and aspirin added depending on valve type and position, and on patient factors. Mechanical and Bioprosthetic Heart Valves For patients with a bileaflet mechanical valve or a Medtronic Hall (Minneapolis, MN) tilting disk valve in the aortic position who are in sinus rhythm and without left atrial enlargement, therapy with warfarin to a target INR of 2.5 (range, 2 to 3) is recommended. For patients with tilting disk valves and bileaflet mechanical valves in the mitral position, therapy with warfarin to a target INR of 3 (range, 2.5 to 3.5) is recommended. For patients with caged ball or caged disk valves, therapy with warfarin to a target INR of 3 (range, 2.5 to 3.5) is recommended. For patients with a bioprosthetic valve in the mitral position, therapy with warfarin to a target INR of 2.5 (range, 2 to 3) for the first 3 months after valve insertion is recommended. If additional risk factors for thromboembolism are present (AF, previous thromboembolism, left ventricular dysfunction), a target INR of 2.5 (range 2 to 3) is recommended. Post-Myocardial Infarction For high-risk patients with MI (e.g., those with a large anterior MI, those with significant heart failure, those with intracardiac thrombus visible on transthoracic echocardiography, those with AF, and those with a history of a thromboembolic event), therapy with combined moderate-intensity (INR, 2 to 3) warfarin plus low-dose aspirin (≤ 100 mg/day) for at least 3 months after the MI is recommended. Recurrent Systemic Embolism and Other Indications Oral anticoagulation therapy with warfarin has not been fully evaluated by clinical trials in patients with valvular disease associated with AF, patients with mitral stenosis, and patients with recurrent systemic embolism of unknown etiology. However, a moderate dose regimen (INR 2 to 3) may be used for these patients. 2.3 Initial and Maintenance Dosing The appropriate initial dosing of warfarin sodium tablets varies widely for different patients. Not all factors responsible for warfarin dose variability are known, and the initial dose is influenced by: Clinical factors including age, race, body weight, sex, concomitant medications, and comorbidities Genetic factors (CYP2C9 and VKORC1 genotypes) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] Select the initial dose based on the expected maintenance dose, taking into account the above factors. Modify this dose based on consideration of patient-specific clinical factors. Consider lower initial and maintenance doses for elderly and/or debilitated patients and in Asian patients [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Routine use of loading doses is not recommended as this practice may increase hemorrhagic and other complications and does not offer more rapid protection against clot formation. Individualize the duration of therapy for each patient. In general, anticoagulant therapy should be continued until the danger of thrombosis and embolism has passed [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )] . Dosing Recommendations without Consideration of Genotype If the patient’s CYP2C9 and VKORC1 genotypes are not known, the initial dose of warfarin sodium tablets is usually 2 to 5 mg once daily. Determine each patient’s dosing needs by close monitoring of the INR response and consideration of the indication being treated. Typical maintenance doses are 2 to 10 mg once daily. Dosing Recommendations with Consideration of Genotype Table 1 displays three ranges of expected maintenance warfarin sodium tablets doses observed in subgroups of patients having different combinations of CYP2C9 and VKORC1 gene variants [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] . If the patient’s CYP2C9 and/or VKORC1 genotype are known, consider these ranges in choosing the initial dose. Patients with CYP2C9 *1/*3, *2/*2, *2/*3, and *3/*3 may require more prolonged time (> 2 to 4 weeks) to achieve maximum INR effect for a given dosage regimen than patients without these CYP variants. Table 1: Three Ranges of Expected Maintenance Warfarin Sodium Tablets Daily Doses Based on CYP2C9 and VKORC1 Genotypes † VKORC1 CYP2C9 *1/*1 *1/*2 *1/*3 *2/*2 *2/*3 *3/*3 GG 5 to 7 mg 5 to 7 mg 3 to 4 mg 3 to 4 mg 3 to 4 mg 0.5 to 2 mg AG 5 to 7 mg 3 to 4 mg 3 to 4 mg 3 to 4 mg 0.5 to 2 mg 0.5 to 2 mg AA 3 to 4 mg 3 to 4 mg 0.5 to 2 mg 0.5 to 2 mg 0.5 to 2 mg 0.5 to 2 mg † Ranges are derived from multiple published clinical studies. VKORC1−1639G > A (rs9923231) variant is used in this table. Other co-inherited VKORC1 variants may also be important determinants of warfarin dose. 2.4 Monitoring to Achieve Optimal Anticoagulation Warfarin sodium tablets have a narrow therapeutic range (index), and their action may be affected by factors such as other drugs and dietary vitamin K. Therefore, anticoagulation must be carefully monitored during warfarin sodium tablets therapy. Determine the INR daily after the administration of the initial dose until INR results stabilize in the therapeutic range. After stabilization, maintain dosing within the therapeutic range by performing periodic INRs. The frequency of performing INR should be based on the clinical situation but generally acceptable intervals for INR determinations are 1 to 4 weeks. Perform additional INR tests when other warfarin products are interchanged with warfarin sodium tablets, as well as whenever other medications are initiated, discontinued, or taken irregularly. Heparin, a common concomitant drug, increases the INR [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.8 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . Determinations of whole blood clotting and bleeding times are not effective measures for monitoring of warfarin sodium tablets therapy. 2.5 Renal Impairment No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with renal failure. Monitor INR more frequently in patients with compromised renal function to maintain INR within the therapeutic range [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. 2.6 Missed Dose The anticoagulant effect of warfarin sodium tablets persists beyond 24 hours. If a patient misses a dose of warfarin sodium tablets at the intended time of day, the patient should take the dose as soon as possible on the same day. The patient should not double the dose the next day to make up for a missed dose. 2.7 Treatment During Dentistry and Surgery Some dental or surgical procedures may necessitate the interruption or change in the dose of warfarin sodium tablets therapy. Consider the benefits and risks when discontinuing warfarin sodium tablets even for a short period of time. Determine the INR immediately prior to any dental or surgical procedure. In patients undergoing minimally invasive procedures who must be anticoagulated prior to, during, or immediately following these procedures, adjusting the dosage of warfarin sodium tablets to maintain the INR at the low end of the therapeutic range may safely allow for continued anticoagulation. 2.8 Conversion From Other Anticoagulants Heparin Since the full anticoagulant effect of warfarin sodium tablets is not achieved for several days, heparin is preferred for initial rapid anticoagulation. During initial therapy with warfarin sodium tablets, the interference with heparin anticoagulation is of minimal clinical significance. Conversion to warfarin sodium tablets may begin concomitantly with heparin therapy or may be delayed 3 to 6 days. To ensure therapeutic anticoagulation, continue full dose heparin therapy and overlap warfarin sodium tablets therapy with heparin for 4 to 5 days and until warfarin sodium tablets has produced the desired therapeutic response as determined by INR, at which point heparin may be discontinued. As heparin may affect the INR, patients receiving both heparin and warfarin sodium tablets should have INR monitoring at least: 5 hours after the last intravenous bolus dose of heparin, or 4 hours after cessation of a continuous intravenous infusion of heparin, or 24 hours after the last subcutaneous heparin injection. Warfarin sodium tablets may increase the activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) test, even in the absence of heparin. A severe elevation (> 50 seconds) in aPTT with an INR in the desired range has been identified as an indication of increased risk of postoperative hemorrhage. Other Anticoagulants Consult the labeling of other anticoagulants for instructions on conversion to warfarin sodium tablets. ( 2.8 ) 2.1 Individualized Dosing The dosage and administration of JANTOVEN must be individualized for each patient according to the patient's International Normalized Ratio (INR) response to the drug. Adjust the dose based on the patient's INR and the condition being treated. 2.2 Recommended Target INR Ranges and Durations for Individual Indications An INR of greater than 4.0 appears to provide no additional therapeutic benefit in most patients and is associated with a higher risk of bleeding. Venous Thromboembolism (including deep venous thrombosis [DVT] and PE) Adjust the warfarin dose to maintain a target INR of 2.5 (INR range, 2.0 to 3.0) for all treatment durations. Atrial Fibrillation In patients with non-valvular AF, anticoagulate with warfarin to target INR of 2.5 (range, 2.0 to 3.0). Mechanical and Bioprosthetic Heart Valves For patients with a bileaflet mechanical valve or a Medtronic Hall (Minneapolis, MN) tilting disk valve in the aortic position who are in sinus rhythm and without left atrial enlargement, therapy with warfarin to a target INR of 2.5 (range, 2.0 to 3.0) is recommended. For patients with tilting disk valves and bileaflet mechanical valves in the mitral position, therapy with warfarin to a target INR of 3.0 (range, 2.5 to 3.5) is recommended. For patients with caged ball or caged disk valves, therapy with warfarin to a target INR of 3.0 (range, 2.5 to 3.5) is recommended. For patients with a bioprosthetic valve in the mitral position, therapy with warfarin to a target INR of 2.5 (range, 2.0 to 3.0) for the first 3 months after valve insertion is recommended. If additional risk factors for thromboembolism are present (AF, previous thromboembolism, left ventricular dysfunction), a target INR of 2.5 (range, 2.0 to 3.0) is recommended. Post-Myocardial Infarction For high-risk patients with MI (e.g., those with a large anterior MI, those with significant heart failure, those with intracardiac thrombus visible on transthoracic echocardiography, those with AF, and those with a history of a thromboembolic event), therapy with combined moderate-intensity (INR, 2.0 to 3.0) warfarin plus low-dose aspirin (≤100 mg/day) for at least 3 months after the MI is recommended. However, a moderate dose regimen (INR 2.0 to 3.0) may be used for these patients. 2.3 Initial and Maintenance Dosing The appropriate initial dosing of JANTOVEN varies widely for different patients. Not all factors responsible for warfarin dose variability are known, and the initial dose is influenced by: Clinical factors including age, race, body weight, sex, concomitant medications, and comorbidities Genetic factors (CYP2C9 and VKORC1 genotypes) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] Select the initial dose based on the expected maintenance dose, taking into account the above factors. Consider lower initial and maintenance doses for elderly and/or debilitated patients and in Asian patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. In general, anticoagulant therapy should be continued until the danger of thrombosis and embolism has passed [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. Dosing Recommendations without Consideration of Genotype If the patient's CYP2C9 and VKORC1 genotypes are not known, the initial dose of JANTOVEN is usually 2 to 5 mg once daily. Determine each patient's dosing needs by close monitoring of the INR response and consideration of the indication being treated. Dosing Recommendations with Consideration of Genotype Table 1 displays three ranges of expected maintenance JANTOVEN doses observed in subgroups of patients having different combinations of CYP2C9 and VKORC1 gene variants [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. If the patient's CYP2C9 and/or VKORC1 genotype are known, consider these ranges in choosing the initial dose. Patients with CYP2C9 *1/*3, *2/*2, *2/*3, and *3/*3 may require more prolonged time (>2 to 4 weeks) to achieve maximum INR effect for a given dosage regimen than patients without these CYP variants. Table 1: Three Ranges of Expected Maintenance JANTOVEN Daily Doses Based on CYP2C9 and VKORC1 Genotypes Ranges are derived from multiple published clinical studies. VKORC1–1639G>A (rs9923231) variant is used in this table. VKORC1 CYP2C9 *1/*1 *1/*2 *1/*3 *2/*2 *2/*3 *3/*3 GG 5–7 mg 5–7 mg 3–4 mg 3–4 mg 3–4 mg 0.5–2 mg AG 5–7 mg 3–4 mg 3–4 mg 3–4 mg 0.5–2 mg 0.5–2 mg AA 3–4 mg 3–4 mg 0.5–2 mg 0.5–2 mg 0.5–2 mg 0.5–2 mg 2.4 Monitoring to Achieve Optimal Anticoagulation JANTOVEN has a narrow therapeutic range (index), and its action may be affected by factors such as other drugs and dietary vitamin K. Therefore, anticoagulation must be carefully monitored during JANTOVEN therapy. Perform additional INR tests when other warfarin products are interchanged with JANTOVEN, as well as whenever other medications are initiated, discontinued, or taken irregularly. Heparin, a common concomitant drug, increases the INR [see Dosage and Administration (2.8) and Drug Interactions (7) ]. Determinations of whole blood clotting and bleeding times are not effective measures for monitoring of JANTOVEN therapy. Monitor INR more frequently in patients with compromised renal function to maintain INR within the therapeutic range [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. 2.6 Missed Dose The anticoagulant effect of JANTOVEN persists beyond 24 hours. If a patient misses a dose of JANTOVEN at the intended time of day, the patient should take the dose as soon as possible on the same day. 2.7 Treatment during Dentistry and Surgery Some dental or surgical procedures may necessitate the interruption or change in the dose of JANTOVEN therapy. Consider the benefits and risks when discontinuing JANTOVEN even for a short period of time. In patients undergoing minimally invasive procedures who must be anticoagulated prior to, during, or immediately following these procedures, adjusting the dosage of JANTOVEN to maintain the INR at the low end of the therapeutic range may safely allow for continued anticoagulation. 2.8 Conversion from Other Anticoagulants Heparin Since the full anticoagulant effect of JANTOVEN is not achieved for several days, heparin is preferred for initial rapid anticoagulation. During initial therapy with JANTOVEN, the interference with heparin anticoagulation is of minimal clinical significance. Conversion to JANTOVEN may begin concomitantly with heparin therapy or may be delayed 3 to 6 days. To ensure therapeutic anticoagulation, continue full dose heparin therapy and overlap JANTOVEN therapy with heparin for 4 to 5 days and until JANTOVEN has produced the desired therapeutic response as determined by INR, at which point heparin may be discontinued. As heparin may affect the INR, patients receiving both heparin and JANTOVEN should have INR monitoring at least: 5 hours after the last intravenous bolus dose of heparin, or 4 hours after cessation of a continuous intravenous infusion of heparin, or 24 hours after the last subcutaneous heparin injection. JANTOVEN may increase the activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) test, even in the absence of heparin. A severe elevation (>50 seconds) in aPTT with an INR in the desired range has been identified as an indication of increased risk of postoperative hemorrhage. Other Anticoagulants Consult the labeling of other anticoagulants for instructions on conversion to JANTOVEN. (2.1, 2.2) Knowledge of genotype can inform initial dose selection. (2.3) Monitoring: Obtain daily INR determinations upon initiation until stable in the therapeutic range. (2.4) Review conversion instructions from other anticoagulants. ( 2.8 ) 2.1 Individualized Dosing The dosage and administration of warfarin sodium must be individualized for each patient according to the patient’s International Normalized Ratio (INR) response to the drug. 2.3 Initial and Maintenance Dosing The appropriate initial dosing of warfarin sodium varies widely for different patients. Not all factors responsible for warfarin dose variability are known, and the initial dose is influenced by: Clinical factors including age, race, body weight, sex, concomitant medications, and comorbidities Genetic factors (CYP2C9 and VKORC1 genotypes) [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] Select the initial dose based on the expected maintenance dose, taking into account the above factors. In general, anticoagulant therapy should be continued until the danger of thrombosis and embolism has passed [ see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. Dosing Recommendations without Consideration of Genotype If the patient's CYP2C9 and VKORC1 genotypes are not known, the initial dose of warfarin sodium is usually 2 to 5 mg once daily. Dosing Recommendations with Consideration of Genotype Table 1 displays three ranges of expected maintenance warfarin sodium doses observed in subgroups of patients having different combinations of CYP2C9 and VKORC1 gene variants [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. Table 1: Three Ranges of Expected Maintenance Warfarin Sodium Daily Doses Based on CYP2C9 and VKORC1 Genotypes† VKORC1 CYP2C9 *1/*1 *1/*2 *1/*3 *2/*2 *2/*3 *3/*3 GG 5-7 mg 5-7 mg 3-4 mg 3-4 mg 3-4 mg 0.5-2 mg AG 5-7 mg 3-4 mg 3-4 mg 3-4 mg 0.5-2 mg 0.5-2 mg AA 3-4 mg 3-4 mg 0.5-2 mg 0.5-2 mg 0.5-2 mg 0.5-2 mg † Ranges are derived from multiple published clinical studies. VKORC1 -1639G>A (rs9923231) variant is used in this table. 2.4 Monitoring to Achieve Optimal Anticoagulation Warfarin sodium is a narrow therapeutic range (index), and its action may be affected by factors such as other drugs and dietary vitamin K. Therefore, anticoagulation must be carefully monitored during warfarin sodium therapy. Perform additional INR tests when other warfarin products are interchanged with warfarin sodium as well as whenever other medications are initiated, discontinued, or taken irregularly. Heparin, a common concomitant drug, increases the INR [ see Dosage and Administration (2.8) and Drug Interactions (7) ]. Determinations of whole blood clotting and bleeding times are not effective measures for monitoring of warfarin sodium therapy. 2.6 Missed Dose The anticoagulant effect of warfarin sodium persists beyond 24 hours. If a patient misses a dose of warfarin sodium at the intended time of day, the patient should take the dose as soon as possible on the same day. 2.7 Treatment During Dentistry and Surgery Some dental or surgical procedures may necessitate the interruption or change in the dose of warfarin sodium therapy. Consider the benefits and risks when discontinuing warfarin sodium even for a short period of time. In patients undergoing minimally invasive procedures who must be anticoagulated prior to, during, or immediately following these procedures, adjusting the dosage of warfarin sodium to maintain the INR at the low end of the therapeutic range may safely allow for continued anticoagulation. 2.8 Conversion From Other Anticoagulants Heparin Since the full anticoagulant effect of warfarin sodium is not achieved for several days, heparin is preferred for initial rapid anticoagulation. During initial therapy with warfarin sodium, the interference with heparin anticoagulation is of minimal clinical significance. Conversion to warfarin sodium may begin concomitantly with heparin therapy or may be delayed 3 to 6 days. To ensure therapeutic anticoagulation, continue full dose heparin therapy and overlap warfarin sodium therapy with heparin for 4 to 5 days and until warfarin sodium has produced the desired therapeutic response as determined by INR, at which point heparin may be discontinued. As heparin may affect the INR, patients receiving both heparin and warfarin sodium should have INR monitoring at least: 5 hours after the last intravenous bolus dose of heparin, or 4 hours after cessation of a continuous intravenous infusion of heparin, or 24 hours after the last subcutaneous heparin injection. Warfarin sodium may increase the activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) test, even in the absence of heparin. Other Anticoagulants Consult the labeling of other anticoagulants for instructions on conversion to warfarin sodium. ( 2.8 ) 2.1 Individualized Dosing The dosage and administration of warfarin sodium must be individualized for each patient according to the patient's International Normalized Ratio (INR) response to the drug. Dosing Recommendations with Consideration of Genotype Table 1 displays three ranges of expected maintenance warfarin sodium doses observed in subgroups of patients having different combinations of CYP2C9 and VKORC1 gene variants [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. Table 1: Three Ranges of Expected Maintenance Warfarin Sodium Daily Doses Based on CYP2C9 and VKORC1 Genotypes Ranges are derived from multiple published clinical studies. VKORC1 −1639G>A (rs9923231) variant is used in this table. Other coinherited VKORC1 variants may also be important determinants of warfarin dose. VKORC1 CYP2C9 *1/*1 *1/*2 *1/*3 *2/*2 *2/*3 *3/*3 GG 5-7 mg 5-7 mg 3-4 mg 3-4 mg 3-4 mg 0.5-2 mg AG 5-7 mg 3-4 mg 3-4 mg 3-4 mg 0.5-2 mg 0.5-2 mg AA 3-4 mg 3-4 mg 0.5-2 mg 0.5-2 mg 0.5-2 mg 0.5-2 mg 2.4 Monitoring to Achieve Optimal Anticoagulation Warfarin sodium has a narrow therapeutic range (index), and its action may be affected by factors such as other drugs and dietary vitamin K. Perform additional INR tests when other warfarin products are interchanged with warfarin sodium, as well as whenever other medications are initiated, discontinued, or taken irregularly. Consider lower initial and maintenance doses for elderly and/or debilitated patients and in Asian patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . In general, anticoagulant therapy should be continued until the danger of thrombosis and embolism has passed [ see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] . Dosing Recommendations without Consideration of Genotype If the patient’s CYP2C9 and VKORC1 genotypes are not known, the initial dose of warfarin sodium tablets is usually 2 mg to 5 mg once daily. Typical maintenance doses are 2 mg to 10 mg once daily. Dosing Recommendations with Consideration of Genotype Table 1 displays three ranges of expected maintenance warfarin sodium tablets doses observed in subgroups of patients having different combinations of CYP2C9 and VKORC1 gene variants [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] . Table 1: Three Ranges of Expected Maintenance Warfarin Sodium Tablets Daily Doses Based on CYP2C9 and VKORC1 Genotypes† VKORC1 CYP2C9 † Ranges are derived from multiple published clinical studies. *1/*1 *1/*2 *1/*3 *2/*2 *2/*3 *3/*3 GG 5 mg to 7 mg 5 mg to 7 mg 3 mg to 4 mg 3 mg to 4 mg 3 mg to 4 mg 0.5 mg to 2 mg AG 5 mg to 7 mg 3 mg to 4 mg 3 mg to 4 mg 3 mg to 4 mg 0.5 mg to 2 mg 0.5 mg to 2 mg AA 3 mg to 4 mg 3 mg to 4 mg 0.5 mg to 2 mg 0.5 mg to 2 mg 0.5 mg to 2 mg 0.5 mg to 2 mg 2.4 Monitoring to Achieve Optimal Anticoagulation Warfarin sodium tablets have a narrow therapeutic range (index), and its action may be affected by factors such as other drugs and dietary vitamin K. Perform additional INR tests when other warfarin products are interchanged with warfarin sodium tablets as well as whenever other medications are initiated, discontinued, or taken irregularly. Heparin, a common concomitant drug, increases the INR [see Dosage and Administration (2.8) and Drug Interactions (7) ] .
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Warfarin sodium is contraindicated in: Pregnancy Warfarin sodium is contraindicated in women who are pregnant except in pregnant women with mechanical heart valves, who are at high risk of thromboembolism [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 )] . Warfarin sodium can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Warfarin sodium exposure during pregnancy causes a recognized pattern of major congenital malformations (warfarin embryopathy and fetotoxicity), fatal fetal hemorrhage, and an increased risk of spontaneous abortion and fetal mortality. If warfarin sodium is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 )] . Warfarin sodium is contraindicated in patients with: Hemorrhagic tendencies or blood dyscrasias Recent or contemplated surgery of the central nervous system or eye, or traumatic surgery resulting in large open surfaces [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] Bleeding tendencies associated with: − Active ulceration or overt bleeding of the gastrointestinal, genitourinary, or respiratory tract − Central nervous system hemorrhage − Cerebral aneurysms, dissecting aorta − Pericarditis and pericardial effusions − Bacterial endocarditis Threatened abortion, eclampsia, and preeclampsia Unsupervised patients with conditions associated with potential high level of non-compliance Spinal puncture and other diagnostic or therapeutic procedures with potential for uncontrollable bleeding Hypersensitivity to warfarin or to any other components of this product (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see Adverse Reactions ( 6 )] Major regional or lumbar block anesthesia Malignant hypertension Pregnancy, except in women with mechanical heart valves ( 4 , 5.7 , 8.1 ) Hemorrhagic tendencies or blood dyscrasias ( 4 ) Recent or contemplated surgery of the central nervous system (CNS) or eye, or traumatic surgery resulting in large open surfaces ( 4 , 5.8 ) Bleeding tendencies associated with certain conditions ( 4 ) Threatened abortion, eclampsia, and preeclampsia ( 4 ) Unsupervised patients with potential high levels of non-compliance ( 4 ) Spinal puncture and other diagnostic or therapeutic procedures with potential for uncontrollable bleeding ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to warfarin or any component of the product ( 4 ) Major regional or lumbar block anesthesia ( 4 ) Malignant hypertension ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS JANTOVEN is contraindicated in: Pregnancy JANTOVEN is contraindicated in women who are pregnant except in pregnant women with mechanical heart valves, who are at high risk of thromboembolism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) and Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ]. JANTOVEN can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. JANTOVEN exposure during pregnancy causes a recognized pattern of major congenital malformations (warfarin embryopathy and fetotoxicity), fatal fetal hemorrhage, and an increased risk of spontaneous abortion and fetal mortality. If JANTOVEN is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ]. JANTOVEN is contraindicated in patients with: Hemorrhagic tendencies or blood dyscrasias Recent or contemplated surgery of the central nervous system or eye, or traumatic surgery resulting in large open surfaces [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] Bleeding tendencies associated with: Active ulceration or overt bleeding of the gastrointestinal, genitourinary, or respiratory tract Central nervous system hemorrhage Cerebral aneurysms, dissecting aorta Pericarditis and pericardial effusions Bacterial endocarditis Threatened abortion, eclampsia, and preeclampsia Unsupervised patients with conditions associated with potential high level of non-compliance Spinal puncture and other diagnostic or therapeutic procedures with potential for uncontrollable bleeding Hypersensitivity to warfarin or to any other components of this product (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see Adverse Reactions (6) ] Major regional or lumbar block anesthesia Malignant hypertension Pregnancy, except in women with mechanical heart valves ( 4 , 5.7 , 8.1 ) Hemorrhagic tendencies or blood dyscrasias ( 4 ) Recent or contemplated surgery of the central nervous system (CNS) or eye, or traumatic surgery resulting in large open surfaces ( 4 , 5.8 ) Bleeding tendencies associated with certain conditions ( 4 ) Threatened abortion, eclampsia, and preeclampsia ( 4 ) Unsupervised patients with potential high levels of non-compliance ( 4 ) Spinal puncture and other diagnostic or therapeutic procedures with potential for uncontrollable bleeding ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to warfarin or any component of the product ( 4 ) Major regional or lumbar block anesthesia ( 4 ) Malignant hypertension ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Warfarin Sodium is contraindicated in: Pregnancy Warfarin sodium tablets are contraindicated in women who are pregnant except in pregnant women with mechanical heart valves, who are at high risk of thromboembolism [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) and Use in Specific Populations (8.1 ) ]. If warfarin sodium is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ]. Warfarin Sodium is contraindicated in patients with: Hemorrhagic tendencies or blood dyscrasias Recent or contemplated surgery of the central nervous system or eye, or traumatic surgery resulting in large open surfaces [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] Bleeding tendencies associated with: − Active ulceration or overt bleeding of the gastrointestinal, genitourinary, or respiratory tract− Central nervous system hemorrhage− Cerebral aneurysms, dissecting aorta− Pericarditis and pericardial effusions− Bacterial endocarditis Threatened abortion, eclampsia, and preeclampsia Unsupervised patients with conditions associated with potential high level of non-compliance Spinal puncture and other diagnostic or therapeutic procedures with potential for uncontrollable bleeding Hypersensitivity to warfarin or to any other components of this product (e.g., anaphylaxis) [ see Adverse Reactions (6) ] Major regional or lumbar block anesthesia Malignant hypertension Pregnancy, except in women with mechanical heart valves. ( 4 , 5.7 , 8.1 ) Hemorrhagic tendencies or blood dyscrasias. ( 4 ) Recent or contemplated surgery of the central nervous system (CNS) or eye, or traumatic surgery resulting in large open surfaces. ( 4, 5.8) Bleeding tendencies associated with certain conditions. ( 4 ) Threatened abortion, eclampsia, and preeclampsia. ( 4 ) Unsupervised patients with potential high levels of non-compliance. ( 4 ) Spinal puncture and other diagnostic or therapeutic procedures with potential for uncontrollable bleeding. ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to warfarin or any component of the product. ( 4 ) Major regional or lumbar block anesthesia. ( 4 ) Malignant hypertension. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Warfarin sodium tablets, USP are contraindicated in: Pregnancy Warfarin sodium tablets, USP are contraindicated in women who are pregnant except in pregnant women with mechanical heart valves, who are at high risk of thromboembolism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) and Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ]. If warfarin sodium is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ]. Warfarin sodium tablets, USP are contraindicated in patients with: Hemorrhagic tendencies or blood dyscrasias Recent or contemplated surgery of the central nervous system or eye, or traumatic surgery resulting in large open surfaces [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] Bleeding tendencies associated with: Active ulceration or overt bleeding of the gastrointestinal, genitourinary, or respiratory tract Central nervous system hemorrhage Cerebral aneurysms, dissecting aorta Pericarditis and pericardial effusions Bacterial endocarditis Threatened abortion, eclampsia, and preeclampsia Unsupervised patients with conditions associated with potential high level of non-compliance Spinal puncture and other diagnostic or therapeutic procedures with potential for uncontrollable bleeding Hypersensitivity to warfarin or to any other components of this product (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see Adverse Reactions (6) ] Major regional or lumbar block anesthesia Malignant hypertension Pregnancy, except in women with mechanical heart valves ( 4 , 5.7 , 8.1 ) Hemorrhagic tendencies or blood dyscrasias ( 4 ) Recent or contemplated surgery of the central nervous system (CNS) or eye, or traumatic surgery resulting in large open surfaces ( 4 , 5.8 ) Bleeding tendencies associated with certain conditions ( 4 ) Threatened abortion, eclampsia, and preeclampsia ( 4 ) Unsupervised patients with potential high levels of non-compliance ( 4 ) Spinal puncture and other diagnostic or therapeutic procedures with potential for uncontrollable bleeding ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to warfarin or any component of the product ( 4 ) Major regional or lumbar block anesthesia ( 4 ) Malignant hypertension ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Warfarin sodium is contraindicated in: Pregnancy Warfarin sodium is contraindicated in women who are pregnant except in pregnant women with mechanical heart valves, who are at high risk of thromboembolism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) and Use in Specific Populations (8.1 )] . If warfarin sodium is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ] . Warfarin sodium is contraindicated in patients with: Hemorrhagic tendencies or blood dyscrasias Recent or contemplated surgery of the central nervous system or eye, or traumatic surgery resulting in large open surfaces [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] Bleeding tendencies associated with: − Active ulceration or overt bleeding of the gastrointestinal, genitourinary, or respiratory tract − Central nervous system hemorrhage − Cerebral aneurysms, dissecting aorta − Pericarditis and pericardial effusions − Bacterial endocarditis Threatened abortion, eclampsia, and preeclampsia Unsupervised patients with conditions associated with potential high level of non-compliance Spinal puncture and other diagnostic or therapeutic procedures with potential for uncontrollable bleeding Hypersensitivity to warfarin or to any other components of this product (e.g., anaphylaxis) [see Adverse Reactions (6) ] Major regional or lumbar block anesthesia Malignant hypertension Pregnancy, except in women with mechanical heart valves.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant use of drugs that increase bleeding risk, antibiotics, antifungals, botanical (herbal) products, and inhibitors and inducers of CYP2C9, 1A2, or 3A4. ( 7 ) Consult labeling of all concurrently used drugs for complete information about interactions with warfarin sodium or increased risks for bleeding. ( 7 ) 7.1 General Information Drugs may interact with warfarin sodium through pharmacodynamic or pharmacokinetic mechanisms. Pharmacodynamic mechanisms for drug interactions with warfarin sodium are synergism (impaired hemostasis, reduced clotting factor synthesis), competitive antagonism (vitamin K), and alteration of the physiologic control loop for vitamin K metabolism (hereditary resistance). Pharmacokinetic mechanisms for drug interactions with warfarin sodium are mainly enzyme induction, enzyme inhibition, and reduced plasma protein binding. It is important to note that some drugs may interact by more than one mechanism. More frequent INR monitoring should be performed when starting or stopping other drugs, including botanicals, or when changing dosages of other drugs, including drugs intended for short-term use (e.g., antibiotics, antifungals, corticosteroids) [ see Boxed Warning ]. Consult the labeling of all concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with warfarin sodium or adverse reactions pertaining to bleeding. 7.2 CYP450 Interactions CYP450 isozymes involved in the metabolism of warfarin include CYP2C9, 2C19, 2C8, 2C18, 1A2, and 3A4. The more potent warfarin S -enantiomer is metabolized by CYP2C9 while the R -enantiomer is metabolized by CYP1A2 and 3A4. Inhibitors of CYP2C9, 1A2, and/or 3A4 have the potential to increase the effect (increase INR) of warfarin by increasing the exposure of warfarin. Inducers of CYP2C9, 1A2, and/or 3A4 have the potential to decrease the effect (decrease INR) of warfarin by decreasing the exposure of warfarin. Examples of inhibitors and inducers of CYP2C9, 1A2, and 3A4 are below in Table 2 ; however, this list should not be considered all-inclusive. Consult the labeling of all concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about CYP450 interaction potential. The CYP450 inhibition and induction potential should be considered when starting, stopping, or changing dose of concomitant medications. Closely monitor INR if a concomitant drug is a CYP2C9, 1A2, and/or 3A4 inhibitor or inducer. Table 2: Examples of CYP450 Interactions with Warfarin Enzyme Inhibitors Inducers CYP2C9 amiodarone, capecitabine, cotrimoxazole, etravirine, fluconazole, fluvastatin, fluvoxamine, metronidazole, miconazole, oxandrolone, sulfinpyrazone, tigecycline, voriconazole, zafirlukast aprepitant, bosentan, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, rifampin CYP1A2 acyclovir, allopurinol, caffeine, cimetidine, ciprofloxacin, disulfiram, enoxacin, famotidine, fluvoxamine, methoxsalen, mexiletine, norfloxacin, oral contraceptives, phenylpropanolamine, propafenone, propranolol, terbinafine, thiabendazole, ticlopidine, verapamil, zileuton montelukast, moricizine, omeprazole, phenobarbital, phenytoin, cigarette smoking CYP3A4 alprazolam, amiodarone, amlodipine, amprenavir, aprepitant, atorvastatin, atazanavir, bicalutamide, cilostazol, cimetidine, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, conivaptan, cyclosporine, darunavir/ritonavir, diltiazem, erythromycin, fluconazole, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, fosamprenavir, imatinib, indinavir, isoniazid, itraconazole, ketoconazole, lopinavir/ritonavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, nilotinib, oral contraceptives, posaconazole, ranitidine, ranolazine, ritonavir, saquinavir, telithromycin, tipranavir, voriconazole, zileuton armodafinil, amprenavir, aprepitant, bosentan, carbamazepine, efavirenz, etravirine, modafinil, nafcillin, phenytoin, pioglitazone, prednisone, rifampin, rufinamide 7.3 Drugs that Increase Bleeding Risk Examples of drugs known to increase the risk of bleeding are presented in Table 3 . Because bleeding risk is increased when these drugs are used concomitantly with warfarin, closely monitor patients receiving any such drug with warfarin. Table 3: Drugs that Can Increase the Risk of Bleeding Drug Class Specific Drugs Anticoagulants argatroban, dabigatran, bivalirudin, desirudin, heparin, lepirudin Antiplatelet Agents aspirin, cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, prasugrel, ticlopidine Non-steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents celecoxib, diclofenac, diflunisal, fenoprofen, ibuprofen, indomethacin, ketoprofen, ketorolac, mefenamic acid, naproxen, oxaprozin, piroxicam, sulindac Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors citalopram, desvenlafaxine, duloxetine, escitalopram, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, milnacipran, paroxetine, sertraline, venlafaxine, vilazodone 7.4 Antibiotics and Antifungals There have been reports of changes in INR in patients taking warfarin and antibiotics or antifungals, but clinical pharmacokinetic studies have not shown consistent effects of these agents on plasma concentrations of warfarin. Closely monitor INR when starting or stopping any antibiotic or antifungal in patients taking warfarin. 7.5 Botanical (Herbal) Products and Foods More frequent INR monitoring should be performed when starting or stopping botanicals. Few adequate, well-controlled studies evaluating the potential for metabolic and/or pharmacologic interactions between botanicals and warfarin sodium exist. Due to a lack of manufacturing standardization with botanical medicinal preparations, the amount of active ingredients may vary. This could further confound the ability to assess potential interactions and effects on anticoagulation. Some botanicals may cause bleeding events when taken alone (e.g., garlic and Ginkgo biloba) and may have anticoagulant, antiplatelet, and/or fibrinolytic properties. These effects would be expected to be additive to the anticoagulant effects of warfarin sodium. Conversely, some botanicals may decrease the effects of warfarin sodium (e.g., co-enzyme Q 10 , St. John’s wort, ginseng). Some botanicals and foods can interact with warfarin sodium through CYP450 interactions (e.g., echinacea, grapefruit juice, ginkgo, goldenseal, St. John’s wort). The amount of vitamin K in food may affect therapy with warfarin sodium. Advise patients taking warfarin sodium to eat a normal, balanced diet maintaining a consistent amount of vitamin K. Patients taking warfarin sodium should avoid drastic changes in dietary habits, such as eating large amounts of green leafy vegetables. ( 7 ) Consult labeling of all concurrently used drugs for complete information about interactions with JANTOVEN or increased risks for bleeding. ( 7 ) 7.1 General Information Drugs may interact with JANTOVEN through pharmacodynamic or pharmacokinetic mechanisms. Pharmacodynamic mechanisms for drug interactions with JANTOVEN are synergism (impaired hemostasis, reduced clotting factor synthesis), competitive antagonism (vitamin K), and alteration of the physiologic control loop for vitamin K metabolism (hereditary resistance). Pharmacokinetic mechanisms for drug interactions with JANTOVEN are mainly enzyme induction, enzyme inhibition, and reduced plasma protein binding. More frequent INR monitoring should be performed when starting or stopping other drugs, including botanicals, or when changing dosages of other drugs, including drugs intended for short-term use (e.g., antibiotics, antifungals, corticosteroids) [see Boxed Warning ]. Consult the labeling of all concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with JANTOVEN or adverse reactions pertaining to bleeding. Examples of inhibitors and inducers of CYP2C9, 1A2, and 3A4 are below in Table 2; however, this list should not be considered all-inclusive. Table 2: Examples of CYP450 Interactions with Warfarin Enzyme Inhibitors Inducers CYP2C9 amiodarone, capecitabine, cotrimoxazole, etravirine, fluconazole, fluvastatin, fluvoxamine, metronidazole, miconazole, oxandrolone, sulfinpyrazone, tigecycline, voriconazole, zafirlukast aprepitant, bosentan, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, rifampin CYP1A2 acyclovir, allopurinol, caffeine, cimetidine, ciprofloxacin, disulfiram, enoxacin, famotidine, fluvoxamine, methoxsalen, mexiletine, norfloxacin, oral contraceptives, phenylpropanolamine, propafenone, propranolol, terbinafine, thiabendazole, ticlopidine, verapamil, zileuton montelukast, moricizine, omeprazole, phenobarbital, phenytoin, cigarette smoking CYP3A4 alprazolam, amiodarone, amlodipine, amprenavir, aprepitant, atorvastatin, atazanavir, bicalutamide, cilostazol, cimetidine, ciprofloxacin, clarithromycin, conivaptan, cyclosporine, darunavir/ritonavir, diltiazem, erythromycin, fluconazole, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, fosamprenavir, imatinib, indinavir, isoniazid, itraconazole, ketoconazole, lopinavir/ritonavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, nilotinib, oral contraceptives, posaconazole, ranitidine, ranolazine, ritonavir, saquinavir, telithromycin, tipranavir, voriconazole, zileuton armodafinil, amprenavir, aprepitant, bosentan, carbamazepine, efavirenz, etravirine, modafinil, nafcillin, phenytoin, pioglitazone, prednisone, rifampin, rufinamide 7.3 Drugs that Increase Bleeding Risk Examples of drugs known to increase the risk of bleeding are presented in Table 3. Table 3: Drugs that Can Increase the Risk of Bleeding Drug Class Specific Drugs Anticoagulants argatroban, dabigatran, bivalirudin, desirudin, heparin, lepirudin Antiplatelet Agents aspirin, cilostazol, clopidogrel, dipyridamole, prasugrel, ticlopidine Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents celecoxib, diclofenac, diflunisal, fenoprofen, ibuprofen, indomethacin, ketoprofen, ketorolac, mefenamic acid, naproxen, oxaprozin, piroxicam, sulindac Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors citalopram, desvenlafaxine, duloxetine, escitalopram, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, milnacipran, paroxetine, sertraline, venlafaxine, vilazodone 7.4 Antibiotics and Antifungals There have been reports of changes in INR in patients taking warfarin and antibiotics or antifungals, but clinical pharmacokinetic studies have not shown consistent effects of these agents on plasma concentrations of warfarin. Few adequate, well-controlled studies evaluating the potential for metabolic and/or pharmacologic interactions between botanicals and JANTOVEN exist. These effects would be expected to be additive to the anticoagulant effects of JANTOVEN. Conversely, some botanicals may decrease the effects of JANTOVEN (e.g., co-enzyme Q 10 , St. John's wort, ginseng). Some botanicals and foods can interact with JANTOVEN through CYP450 interactions (e.g., echinacea, grapefruit juice, ginkgo, goldenseal, St. John's wort). The amount of vitamin K in food may affect therapy with JANTOVEN. Advise patients taking JANTOVEN to eat a normal, balanced diet maintaining a consistent amount of vitamin K. Patients taking JANTOVEN should avoid drastic changes in dietary habits, such as eating large amounts of green leafy vegetables. (7) 7.1 General Information Drugs may interact with warfarin sodium through pharmacodynamic or pharmacokinetic mechanisms. More frequent INR monitoring should be performed when starting or stopping other drugs, including botanicals, or when changing dosages of other drugs, including drugs intended for short-term use (e.g., antibiotics, antifungals, corticosteroids) [see Boxed Warning ] .

=== ZINC OXIDE SUNSCREEN ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Sunscreen Uses Helps prevent sunburn If used as directed with other sun protection measures (See Directions), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun.
Indications: Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses Helps prevent sunburn If used as directed with other sun protection measures (See Directions), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun. Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see ​Directions ​), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun
Dosage: Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply: • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures . Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: • limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. • wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply: • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures . Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure. Hold container 4-6 inches from the skin to apply. Do not spray product directly into face, spray on hands then apply to face. do not apply in windy conditions. Use in a well-ventilated area and avoide inhallation. Reapply after 40 mintues of swimming or sweating, immediately after towel drying and at least every 2 hours. Sun Protection Measures: Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad-spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 am to 2 pm. Wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses. Children under 6 months: ask a physician. Drug Facts Directions • spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • hold can 4-6 inches away from skin top apply • do not spray into face. Spray into hand and apply to face. • use in a well ventilated areas reapply: • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • children under 6 months: Ask a doctor • Sun Protection Measures .
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs When using this product: keep out of eyes, rinse with water to remove. Do not puncture or incinerate. Contents under pressure. Do not store at temperatures above 120F Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove. Stop use and ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if a rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. If product is swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Warnings ​For external use only

=== AZITHROMYCIN DIHYDRATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Azithromycin is a macrolide antibacterial drug indicated for the treatment of patients with mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms in the specific conditions listed below. Recommended dosages and durations of therapy in adult and pediatric patient populations vary in these indications. [see Dosage and Administration (2) ] Azithromycin is a macrolide antibacterial drug indicated for mild to moderate infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria: • Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis in adults () • Acute bacterial sinusitis in adults () • Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections in adults () • Urethritis and cervicitis in adults () • Genital ulcer disease in men () • Acute otitis media in pediatric patients (6 months of age and older) ( 1.2 ) • Community-acquired pneumonia in adults and pediatric patients (6 months of age and older) (, 1.2 ) • Pharyngitis/tonsillitis in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) (, 1.2 ) Limitation of Use: Azithromycin should not be used in patients with pneumonia who are judged to be inappropriate for oral therapy because of moderate to severe illness or risk factors. ( 1.3 ) To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of azithromycin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, azithromycin tablets should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. () 1.1 Adult Patients • Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis due to Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis, or Streptococcus pneumoniae . • Acute bacterial sinusitis due to Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis. or Streptococcus pneumoniae . • Community-acquired pneumonia due to Chlamydophila pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae , Mycoplasma pneumoniae, or Streptococcus pneumoniae in patients appropriate for oral therapy. • Pharyngitis/tonsillitis caused by Streptococcus pyogenes as an alternative to first-line therapy in individuals who cannot use first-line therapy. • Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections due to Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pyogenes , or Streptococcus agalactiae . • Urethritis and cervicitis due to Chlamydia trachomatis or Neisseria gonorrhoeae . • Genital ulcer disease in men due to Haemophilus ducreyi (chancroid). Due to the small number of women included in clinical trials, the efficacy of azithromycin in the treatment of chancroid in women has not been established. 1.2 Pediatric Patients [see and ] • Acute otitis media (>6 months of age) caused by Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis , or Streptococcus pneumoniae. • Community-acquired pneumonia (>6 months of age) due to Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae , or Streptococcus pneumoniae in patients appropriate for oral therapy. • Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (>2 years of age) caused by Streptococcus pyogenes as an alternative to first-line therapy in individuals who cannot use first-line therapy. 1.3 Limitations of Use Azithromycin should not be used in patients with pneumonia who are judged to be inappropriate for oral therapy because of moderate to severe illness or risk factors such as any of the following: • patients with cystic fibrosis, • patients with nosocomial infections, • patients with known or suspected bacteremia, • patients requiring hospitalization, • elderly or debilitated patients, or • patients with significant underlying health problems that may compromise their ability to respond to their illness (including immunodeficiency or functional asplenia). 1.4 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of azithromycin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, azithromycin tablets should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Azithromycin tablets are a macrolide antibacterial drug indicated for mild to moderate infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria: Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis in adults ( 1.1 ) Acute bacterial sinusitis in adults ( 1.1 ) Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections in adults ( 1.1 ) Urethritis and cervicitis in adults ( 1.1 ) Genital ulcer disease in men ( 1.1 ) Acute otitis media in pediatric patients (6 months of age and older) ( 1.2 ) Community-acquired pneumonia in adults and pediatric patients (6 months of age and older) ( 1.1 , 1.2 ) Pharyngitis/tonsillitis in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) ( 1.1 , 1.2 ) Limitation of Use: Azithromycin should not be used in patients with pneumonia who are judged to be inappropriate for oral therapy because of moderate to severe illness or risk factors. ( 1.4 ) Azithromycin tablets are a macrolide antibacterial drug indicated for the treatment of patients with mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms in the specific conditions listed below. [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 )] 1.1 Adult Patients Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis due to Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis, or Streptococcus pneumoniae . Acute bacterial sinusitis due to Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis or Streptococcus pneumoniae . Community-acquired pneumonia due to Chlamydophila pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae , Mycoplasma pneumoniae, or Streptococcus pneumoniae in patients appropriate for oral therapy. Pharyngitis/tonsillitis caused by Streptococcus pyogenes as an alternative to first-line therapy in individuals who cannot use first-line therapy. Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections due to Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus pyogenes , or Streptococcus agalactiae . Urethritis and cervicitis due to Chlamydia trachomatis or Neisseria gonorrhoeae . Genital ulcer disease in men due to Haemophilus ducreyi (chancroid). 1.2 Pediatric Patients [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.4 ) and CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.2 )] Acute otitis media ( >6 months of age) caused by Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis, or Streptococcus pneumoniae. Community-acquired pneumonia ( >6 months of age) due to Chlamydophila pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae , Mycoplasma pneumoniae , or Streptococcus pneumoniae in patients appropriate for oral therapy. Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (>2 years of age) caused by Streptococcus pyogenes as an alternative to first-line therapy in individuals who cannot use first-line therapy. 1.3 Limitations of Use Azithromycin should not be used in patients with pneumonia who are judged to be inappropriate for oral therapy because of moderate to severe illness or risk factors such as any of the following: patients with cystic fibrosis, patients with nosocomial infections, patients with known or suspected bacteremia, patients requiring hospitalization, elderly or debilitated patients, or patients with significant underlying health problems that may compromise their ability to respond to their illness (including immunodeficiency or functional asplenia). 1.4 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of azithromycin and other antibacterial drugs, azithromycin should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. [see Dosage and Administration (2) ] Azithromycin is a macrolide antibacterial drug indicated for mild to moderate infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria: Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis in adults ( 1.1 ) Acute bacterial sinusitis in adults ( 1.1 ) Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections in adults ( 1.1 ) Urethritis and cervicitis in adults ( 1.1 ) Genital ulcer disease in men ( 1.1 ) Acute otitis media in pediatric patients (6 months of age and older) ( 1.2 ) Community-acquired pneumonia in adults and pediatric patients (6 months of age and older) ( 1.1 , 1.2 ) Pharyngitis/tonsillitis in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) ( 1.1 , 1.2 ) Limitation of Use: Azithromycin should not be used in patients with pneumonia who are judged to be inappropriate for oral therapy because of moderate to severe illness or risk factors. ( 1.3 ) To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of azithromycin and other antibacterial drugs, azithromycin should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Adult Patients Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis due to Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis, or Streptococcus pneumoniae . Acute bacterial sinusitis due to Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis. 1.2 Pediatric Patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Clinical Studies (14.2) ] Acute otitis media ( > 6 months of age ) caused by Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis, or Streptococcus pneumoniae Community-acquired pneumonia ( > 6 months of age ) due to Chlamydophila pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae , Mycoplasma pneumonia , or Streptococcus pneumoniae in patients appropriate for oral therapy. Pharyngitis/tonsillitis ( > 2 years of age ) caused by Streptococcus pyogenes as an alternative to first-line therapy in individuals who cannot use first-line therapy. Azithromycin is a macrolide antibacterial drug indicated for mild to moderate infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria: Mycobacterial Infections ( 1.2 ) To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of azithromycin and other antibacterial drugs, azithromycin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. ( 1.3 ) 1.2 Mycobacterial Infections Prophylaxis of Disseminated Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) Disease Azithromycin tablets, taken alone or in combination with rifabutin at its approved dose, are indicated for the prevention of disseminated MAC disease in persons with advanced HIV infection. [see Dosage and Administration (2) ] Treatment of Disseminated MAC Disease Azithromycin tablets, taken in combination with ethambutol, are indicated for the treatment of disseminated MAC infections in persons with advanced HIV infection . [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Clinical Studies (14.1) ] 1.3 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of azithromycin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, azithromycin tablets should be used only to treat infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. 1.2 Pediatric Patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Clinical Studies (14.2) ] Acute otitis media (>6 months of age) caused by Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis , or Streptococcus pneumoniae. Community-acquired pneumonia (>6 months of age) due to Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae , or Streptococcus pneumoniae in patients appropriate for oral therapy.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Adult Patients ( ) Infection Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Community-acquired pneumonia (mild severity) Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (second-line therapy) Skin/skin structure (uncomplicated) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5. Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis (mild to moderate) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 or 500 mg once daily for 3 days. Acute bacterial sinusitis 500 mg once daily for 3 days. Genital ulcer disease (chancroid) Non-gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 1 gram dose. Gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 2 gram dose. • Pediatric Patients ( ) Infection Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Acute otitis media (6 months of age and older) 30 mg/kg as a single dose or 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days or 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg/day on Days 2 through 5. Acute bacterial sinusitis (6 months of age and older) 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days. Community-acquired pneumonia (6 months of age and older) 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg once daily on Days 2 through 5. Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (2 years of age and older) 12 mg/kg once daily for 5 days. 2.1 Adult Patients [see and ] Infection* Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Community-acquired pneumonia Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (second-line therapy) Skin/skin structure (uncomplicated) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 500 mg once daily for 3 days OR 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial sinusitis 500 mg once daily for 3 days Genital ulcer disease (chancroid) One single 1 gram dose Non-gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 1 gram dose Gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 2 gram dose * DUE TO THE INDICATED ORGANISMS [see ] Azithromycin tablets can be taken with or without food. 2.2 Pediatric Patients 1 Infection* Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Acute otitis media 30 mg/kg as a single dose or 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days or 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg/day on Days 2 through 5. Acute bacterial sinusitis 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days. Community-acquired pneumonia 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg once daily on Days 2 through 5. Pharyngitis/tonsillitis 12 mg/kg once daily for 5 days. * DUE TO THE INDICATED ORGANISMS [see Indications and Usage (1.2) ] 1 see dosing tables below for maximum doses evaluated by indication Azithromycin for oral suspension can be taken with or without food. PEDIATRIC DOSAGE GUIDELINES FOR OTITIS MEDIA, ACUTE BACTERIAL SINUSITIS, AND COMMUNITY-ACQUIRED PNEUMONIA (Age 6 months and above, [see ] ) Based on Body Weight OTITIS MEDIA AND COMMUNITY-ACQUIRED PNEUMONIA: (5-Day Regimen)* Dosing Calculated on 10 mg/kg/day Day 1 and 5 mg/kg/day Days 2 to 5. Weight in kG 100 mg/5 mL 100 mg/5 mL 200 mg/5 mL 200 mg/5 mL Total mg per Treatment Course Total mg per Treatment Course Day 1 Days 2 to 5 Day 1 Days 2 to 5 5 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 1.25 mL; (¼ tsp) 7.5 mL 150 mg 10 5 mL; (1tsp) 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 15 mL 300 mg 20 5 mL; (1 tsp) 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 15mL 600mg 30 7.5 mL; (1½ tsp) 5 mL; (1 tsp) 22.5 mL 900mg 40 10 mL; (2 tsp) 5 mL; (1 tsp) 30 mL 1200mg 50 + 12.5 mL; (2½ tsp) 6.25 mL; (1¼ tsp) 37.5 mL 1500mg * Effectiveness of the 3-day or 1-day regimen in pediatric patients with community-acquired pneumonia has not been established. OTITIS MEDIA AND ACUTE BACTERIAL SINUSITIS: (3-Day Regimen)* Dosing Calculated on 10 mg/kg/day. Weight 100 mg/5 mL 200 mg/5 mL Total mL per Treatment Course Total mg per Treatment Course Kg Days 1 to 3 Days 1 to 3 5 2.5 mL; (1/2 tsp) 7.5 mL 150 mg 10 5 mL; (1 tsp) 15 mL 300 mg 20 5 mL (1 tsp) 15 mL 600 mg 30 7.5 mL (1½ tsp) 22.5 mL 900 mg 40 10 mL (2 tsp) 30 mL 1200 mg 50 and above 12.5 mL (2 ½ tsp) 37.5 mL 1500 mg *Effectiveness of the 5-day or 1-day regimen in pediatric patients with acute bacterial sinusitis has not been established. OTITIS MEDIA: (1-Day Regimen) Dosing Calculated on 30 mg/kg as a single dose. Weight 200 mg/5 mL Total mL per Treatment Course Total mg per Treatment Course Kg 1-Day Regimen 5 3.75 mL;(3/4 tsp) 3.75 mL 150 mg 10 7.5 mL;(1½ tsp) 7.5 mL 300 mg 20 15 mL;(3 tsp) 15 mL 600 mg 30 22.5 mL;(4½ tsp) 22.5 mL 900 mg 40 30 mL;(6 tsp) 30 mL 1200 mg 50 and above 37.5 mL;(7½ tsp) 37.5 mL 1500 mg The safety of re-dosing azithromycin in pediatric patients who vomit after receiving 30 mg/kg as a single dose has not been established. In clinical studies involving 487 patients with acute otitis media given a single 30 mg/kg dose of azithromycin, 8 patients who vomited within 30 minutes of dosing were re-dosed at the same total dose. Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis: The recommended dose of azithromycin for children with pharyngitis/tonsillitis is 12 mg/kg once daily for 5 days. (See chart below.) PEDIATRIC DOSAGE GUIDELINES FOR PHARYNGITIS/TONSILLITIS (Age 2 years and above, [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)] ) Based on Body Weight PHARYNGITIS/TONSILLITIS: (5-Day Regimen) Dosing Calculated on 12 mg/kg/day for 5 days. Weight Day 1 to 5 Total mL Total mG 8 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 12.5 mL 500 mg 17 5 mL; (1 tsp) 25 mL 1000 mg 25 7.5 mL; (1½ tsp) 37.5 mL 1500 mg 33 10 mL; (2 tsp) 50 mL 2000 mg 40 12.5 mL; (2½ tsp) 62.5 mL 2500 mg 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult Patients ( 2.1 ) Infection Recommended Dose / Duration of Therapy Community-acquired pneumonia (mild severity) Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (second-line therapy) Skin/skin structure (uncomplicated) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5. Pediatric Patients ( 2.2 ) Infection Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Acute otitis media (6 months of age and older) 30 mg/kg as a single dose or 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days or 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg/day on Days 2 through 5. 2.1 Adult Patients [see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ( 1.1 ) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )] Infection* Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Community-acquired pneumonia Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (second-line therapy) Skin/skin structure (uncomplicated) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 500 mg once daily for 3 days OR 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial sinusitis 500 mg once daily for 3 days Genital ulcer disease (chancroid) One single 1 gram dose Non-gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 1 gram dose Gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 2 gram dose *DUE TO THE INDICATED ORGANISMS [see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ( 1.1 )] Azithromycin tablets can be taken with or without food. 2.2 Pediatric Patients Infection * Recommended Dose / Duration of Therapy Acute otitis media 30 mg/kg as a single dose or 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days or 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg/day on Days 2 through 5. *DUE TO THE INDICATED ORGANISMS [see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ( 1.2 )] 1 see dosing tables below for maximum doses evaluated by indication Azithromycin for oral suspension can be taken with or without food. PEDIATRIC DOSAGE GUIDELINES FOR OTITIS MEDIA, ACUTE BACTERIAL SINUSITIS, AND COMMUNITY-ACQUIRED PNEUMONIA (Age 6 months and above, [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS (8.4)] ) Based on Body Weight * Effectiveness of the 3-day or 1-day regimen in pediatric patients with community-acquired pneumonia has not been established. OTITIS MEDIA AND COMMUNITY-ACQUIRED PNEUMONIA: (5-Day Regimen)* Dosing Calculated on 10 mg/kg/day Day 1 and 5 mg/kg/day Days 2 to 5. Weight 100 mg/5 mL 200 mg/5 mL Total mL per Treatment Course Total mg per Treatment Course Kg Day 1 Days 2 to 5 Day 1 Days 2 to 5 5 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 1.25 mL;(¼ tsp) 7.5 mL 150 mg 10 5 mL; (1tsp) 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 15 mL 300 mg 20 5 mL; (1 tsp) 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 15 mL 600 mg 30 7.5 mL; (1½ tsp) 3.75 mL; (¾ tsp) 22.5 mL 900 mg 40 10 mL; (2 tsp) 5 mL;(1 tsp) 30 mL 1200 mg 50 and above 12.5 mL; (2½ tsp) 6.25 mL; (1¼ tsp) 37.5 mL 1500 mg * Effectiveness of the 5-day or 1-day regimen in pediatric patients with acute bacterial sinusitis has not been established. Weight 100 mg/5 mL 200 mg/5 mL Kg Days 1 to 3 Days 1 to 3 Total mL per Treatment Course Total mg per Treatment Course 5 2.5 mL; (1/2 tsp) 7.5 mL 150 mg 10 5 mL; (1 tsp) 15 mL 300 mg 20 5 mL (1 tsp) 15 mL 600 mg 30 7.5 mL (1½ tsp) 22.5 mL 900 mg 40 10 mL (2 tsp) 30 mL 1200 mg 50 and above 12.5 mL (2 ½ tsp) 37.5 mL 1500 mg OTITIS MEDIA: (1-Day Regimen) Dosing Calculated on 30 mg/kg as a single dose. Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis The recommended dose of azithromycin for children with pharyngitis/tonsillitis is 12 mg/kg once daily for 5 days. Weight 200 mg/5 mL Total mL per Treatment Course Total mg per Treatment Course Kg Day 1 to 5 8 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 12.5 mL 500 mg 17 5 mL; (1 tsp) 25 mL 1000 mg 25 7.5 mL; (1½ tsp) 37.5 mL 1500 mg 33 10 mL; (2 tsp) 50 mL 2000 mg 40 12.5 mL; (2½ tsp) 62.5 mL 2500 mg Constituting instructions for azithromycin oral suspension 300, 600, 900, 1200 mg bottles. The table below indicates the volume of water to be used for constitution: Amount of water to be added Total volume after constitution ( azithromycin content ) Azithromycin concentration after constitution 9 mL (300 mg) 15 mL (300 mg) 100 mg/5 mL 9 mL (600 mg) 15 mL (600 mg) 200 mg/5 mL 12 mL (900 mg) 22.5 mL (900 mg) 200 mg/5 mL 15 mL (1200 mg) 30 mL (1200 mg) 200 mg/5 mL Shake well before each use. Oversized bottle provides shake space. Keep tightly closed. After mixing, store suspension at 5° to 30°C (41° to 86°F) and use within 10 days. Discard after full dosing is completed. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult Patients ( 2.1 ) Infection Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Community-acquired pneumonia (mild severity) Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (second-line therapy) Skin/skin structure (uncomplicated) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis (mild to moderate) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 or 500 mg once daily for 3 days Acute bacterial sinusitis 500 mg once daily for 3 days Genital ulcer disease (chancroid) Non-gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 1 gram dose Gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 2 gram dose Pediatric Patients ( 2.2 ) Infection Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Acute otitis media (6 months of age and older) 30 mg/kg as a single dose or 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days or 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg/day on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial sinusitis (6 months of age and older) 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days Community-acquired pneumonia (6 months of age and older) 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (2 years of age and older) 12 mg/kg once daily for 5 days 2.1 Adult Patients [see Indications and Usage (1.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] Infection DUE TO THE INDICATED ORGANISMS [see Indications and Usage (1.1)] Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Community-acquired pneumonia Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (second-line therapy) Skin/skin structure (uncomplicated) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 500 mg once daily for 3 days OR 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial sinusitis 500 mg once daily for 3 days Genital ulcer disease (chancroid) One single 1 gram dose Non-gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 1 gram dose Gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 2 gram dose Azithromycin tablets can be taken with or without food. 2.2 Pediatric Patients 1 Infection DUE TO THE INDICATED ORGANISMS [see Indications and Usage (1.2)] Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy 1 see dosing tables below for maximum doses evaluated by indication Acute otitis media 30 mg/kg as a single dose or 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days or 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg/day on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial sinusitis 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days Community-acquired pneumonia 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Pharyngitis/tonsillitis 12 mg/kg once daily for 5 days Azithromycin for oral suspension can be taken with or without food. PEDIATRIC DOSAGE GUIDELINES FOR OTITIS MEDIA, ACUTE BACTERIAL SINUSITIS, AND COMMUNITY-ACQUIRED PNEUMONIA (Age 6 months and above, [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] ) Based on Body Weight OTITIS MEDIA AND COMMUNITY-ACQUIRED PNEUMONIA: (5-Day Regimen) Effectiveness of the 3-day or 1-day regimen in pediatric patients with community-acquired pneumonia has not been established. Dosing Calculated on 10 mg/kg/day Day 1 and 5 mg/kg/day Days 2 to 5. Weight 100 mg/5 mL 200 mg/5 mL Total mL per Treatment Course Total mg per Treatment Course Kg Day 1 Days 2 to 5 Day 1 Days 2 to 5 5 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 1.25mL; (¼ tsp) 7.5 mL 150 mg 10 5 mL; (1 tsp) 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 15 mL 300 mg 20 5 mL; (1 tsp) 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 15 mL 600 mg 30 7.5 mL; (1½ tsp) 3.75 mL; (¾ tsp) 22.5 mL 900 mg 40 10 mL; (2 tsp) 5 mL; (1 tsp) 30 mL 1,200 mg 50 and above 12.5 mL; (2½ tsp) 6.25 mL; (1¼ tsp) 37.5 mL 1,500 mg OTITIS MEDIA AND ACUTE BACTERIAL SINUSITIS: (3-Day Regimen) Effectiveness of the 5-day or 1-day regimen in pediatric patients with acute bacterial sinusitis has not been established. Dosing Calculated on 10 mg/kg/day. Weight 100 mg/5 mL 200 mg/5 mL Total mL per Treatment Course Total mg per Treatment Course Kg Days 1 to 3 Days 1 to 3 5 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 7.5 mL 150 mg 10 5 mL; (1 tsp) 15 mL 300 mg 20 5 mL; (1 tsp) 15 mL 600 mg 30 7.5 mL; (1½ tsp) 22.5 mL 900 mg 40 10 mL; (2 tsp) 30 mL 1,200 mg 50 and above 12.5 mL; (2½ tsp) 37.5 mL 1,500 mg OTITIS MEDIA: (1-Day Regimen) Dosing Calculated on 30 mg/kg as a single dose. Weight 200 mg/5 mL Total mL per Treatment Course Total mg per Treatment Course Kg 1-Day Regimen 5 3.75 mL; (3/4 tsp) 3.75 mL 150 mg 10 7.5 mL; (1½ tsp) 7.5 mL 300 mg 20 15 mL; (3 tsp) 15 mL 600 mg 30 22.5 mL; (4½ tsp) 22.5 mL 900 mg 40 30 mL; (6 tsp) 30 mL 1,200 mg 50 and above 37.5 mL; (7½ tsp) 37.5 mL 1,500 mg The safety of re-dosing azithromycin in pediatric patients who vomit after receiving 30 mg/kg as a single dose has not been established. (See chart below.) PEDIATRIC DOSAGE GUIDELINES FOR PHARYNGITIS/TONSILLITIS (Age 2 years and above, [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] ) Based on Body Weight PHARYNGITIS/TONSILLITIS: (5-Day Regimen) Dosing Calculated on 12 mg/kg/day for 5 days. Weight 200 mg/5 mL Total mL per Treatment Course Total mg per Treatment Course Kg Days 1 to 5 8 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 12.5 mL 500 mg 17 5 mL; (1 tsp) 25 mL 1,000 mg 25 7.5 mL; (1½ tsp) 37.5 mL 1,500 mg 33 10 mL; (2 tsp) 50 mL 2,000 mg 40 12.5 mL; (2½ tsp) 62.5 mL 2,500 mg 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION [see Indications and Usage (1) ] Azithromycin can be taken with or without food. However, increased tolerability has been observed when tablets are taken with food. For pediatric suspension see the prescribing information for azithromycin for oral suspension 100 mg/5 mL and 200 mg/5 mL bottles. Mycobacterial Infections ( 2.2 ) 2.2 Mycobacterial Infections Prevention of Disseminated MAC Infections The recommended dose of azithromycin tablets for the prevention of disseminated Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) disease is: 1,200 mg taken once weekly. This dose of azithromycin tablets may be combined with the approved dosage regimen of rifabutin. Treatment of Disseminated MAC Infections Azithromycin should be taken at a daily dose of 600 mg, in combination with ethambutol at the recommended daily dose of 15 mg/kg. Other antimycobacterial drugs that have shown in vitro activity against MAC may be added to the regimen of azithromycin plus ethambutol at the discretion of the physician or health care provider. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult Patients ( 2.1 ) Infection Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Community-acquired pneumonia (mild severity) Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (second-line therapy) Skin/skin structure (uncomplicated) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis (mild to moderate) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 or 500 mg once daily for 3 days Acute bacterial sinusitis 500 mg once daily for 3 days Genital ulcer disease (chancroid) Non-gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 1 gram dose Gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 2 gram dose Pediatric Patients ( 2.2 ) Infection Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Acute otitis media (6 months of age and older) 30 mg/kg as a single dose or 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days or 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg/day on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial sinusitis (6 months of age and older) 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days Community-acquired pneumonia (6 months of age and older) 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (2 years of age and older) 12 mg/kg once daily for 5 days 2.1 Adult Patients [see Indications and Usage (1.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] Infection DUE TO THE INDICATED ORGANISMS [see Indications and Usage (1.1) ] Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Community-acquired pneumonia Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (second-line therapy) Skin/skin structure (uncomplicated) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 500 mg once daily for 3 days OR 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial sinusitis 500 mg once daily for 3 days Genital ulcer disease (chancroid) One single 1 gram dose Non-gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 1 gram dose Gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 2 gram dose Azithromycin tablets can be taken with or without food. 2.2 Pediatric Patients 1 Infection DUE TO THE INDICATED ORGANISMS [see Indications and Usage (1.2) ] Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy 1 see dosing tables below for maximum doses evaluated by indication Acute otitis media 30 mg/kg as a single dose or 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days or 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg/day on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial sinusitis 10 mg/kg once daily for 3 days Community-acquired pneumonia 10 mg/kg as a single dose on Day 1 followed by 5 mg/kg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Pharyngitis/tonsillitis 12 mg/kg once daily for 5 days Azithromycin for oral suspension can be taken with or without food. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult Patients ( 2.1 ) Infection Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Community-acquired pneumonia (mild severity) Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (second-line therapy) Skin/skin structure (uncomplicated) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5. 2.1 Adult Patients [see Indications and Usage (1.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] Infection* Recommended Dose/Duration of Therapy Community-acquired pneumonia Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (second-line therapy) Skin/skin structure (uncomplicated) 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 500 mg once daily for 3 days OR 500 mg as a single dose on Day 1, followed by 250 mg once daily on Days 2 through 5 Acute bacterial sinusitis 500 mg once daily for 3 days Genital ulcer disease (chancroid) One single 1 gram dose Non-gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 1 gram dose Gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis One single 2 gram dose * DUE TO THE INDICATED ORGANISMS [see Indications and Usage (1.1) ] Azithromycin tablets can be taken with or without food. PEDIATRIC DOSAGE GUIDELINES FOR OTITIS MEDIA, ACUTE BACTERIAL SINUSITIS, AND COMMUNITY-ACQUIRED PNEUMONIA (Age 6 months and above, [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] ) Based on Body Weight OTITIS MEDIA AND COMMUNITY-ACQUIRED PNEUMONIA: (5-Day Regimen)* Dosing Calculated on 10 mg/kg/day Day 1 and 5 mg/kg/day Days 2 to 5. Weight 100 mg/5 mL 200 mg/5 mL Total mL per Treatment Course Total mg per Treatment Course Kg Day 1 Days 2 to 5 Day 1 Days 2 to 5 5 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 1.25 mL; (¼ tsp) 7.5 mL 150 mg 10 5 mL; (1tsp) 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 15 mL 300 mg 20 5 mL; (1 tsp) 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 15 mL 600 mg 30 7.5 mL; (1½ tsp) 3.75 mL; (¾ tsp) 22.5 mL 900 mg 40 10 mL; (2 tsp) 5 mL; (1 tsp) 30 mL 1200 mg 50 and above 12.5 mL; (2½ tsp) 6.25 mL; (1¼ tsp) 37.5 mL 1500 mg * Effectiveness of the 3-day or 1-day regimen in pediatric patients with community-acquired pneumonia has not been established. Weight 200 mg/5 mL Total mL per Treatment Course Total mg per Treatment Course Kg Day 1 to 5 8 2.5 mL; (½ tsp) 12.5 mL 500 mg 17 5 mL; (1 tsp) 25 mL 1000 mg 25 7.5 mL; (1½ tsp) 37.5 mL 1500 mg 33 10 mL; (2 tsp) 50 mL 2000 mg 40 12.5 mL; (2½ tsp) 62.5 mL 2500 mg
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Patients with known hypersensitivity to azithromycin, erythromycin, any macrolide or ketolide drug. () • Patients with a history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with prior use of azithromycin. () 4.1 Hypersensitivity Azithromycin tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to azithromycin, erythromycin, any macrolide or ketolide drug. 4.2 Hepatic Dysfunction Azithromycin tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with prior use of azithromycin. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients with known hypersensitivity to azithromycin, erythromycin, any macrolide or ketolide drug. ( 4.1 ) Patients with a history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with prior use of azithromycin. ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Azithromycin is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to azithromycin, erythromycin, any macrolide or ketolide drug. 4.2 Hepatic Dysfunction Azithromycin is contraindicated in patients with a history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with prior use of azithromycin. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients with known hypersensitivity to azithromycin, erythromycin, any macrolide, or ketolide drug. ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Azithromycin is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to azithromycin, erythromycin, any macrolide, or ketolide drug. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients with known hypersensitivity to azithromycin, erythromycin, any macrolide, or ketolide antibiotic. ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Azithromycin tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to azithromycin, erythromycin, any macrolide, or ketolide drug. ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Azithromycin tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to azithromycin, erythromycin, any macrolide or ketolide drug. ( 4.1) Patients with a history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with prior use of azithromycin.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Nelfinavir: Close monitoring for known adverse reactions of azithromycin, such as liver enzyme abnormalities and hearing impairment, is warranted. () • Warfarin: Use with azithromycin may increase coagulation times; monitor prothrombin time. () 7.1 Nelfinavir Co-administration of nelfinavir at steady-state with a single oral dose of azithromycin resulted in increased azithromycin serum concentrations. Although a dose adjustment of azithromycin is not recommended when administered in combination with nelfinavir, close monitoring for known adverse reactions of azithromycin, such as liver enzyme abnormalities and hearing impairment, is warranted. [see Adverse Reactions (6) ] 7.2 Warfarin Spontaneous postmarketing reports suggest that concomitant administration of azithromycin may potentiate the effects of oral anticoagulants such as warfarin, although the prothrombin time was not affected in the dedicated drug interaction study with azithromycin and warfarin. Prothrombin times should be carefully monitored while patients are receiving azithromycin and oral anticoagulants concomitantly. 7.3 Potential Drug-Drug Interaction with Macrolides Interactions with digoxin, colchicine or phenytoin have not been reported in clinical trials with azithromycin. No specific drug interaction studies have been performed to evaluate potential drug-drug interaction. However, drug interactions have been observed with other macrolide products. Until further data are developed regarding drug interactions when digoxin, colchicine or phenytoin are used with azithromycin careful monitoring of patients is advised. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Nelfinavir: Close monitoring for known adverse reactions of azithromycin, such as liver enzyme abnormalities and hearing impairment, is warranted. ( 7.1 ) Warfarin: Use with azithromycin may increase coagulation times; monitor prothrombin time. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Nelfinavir Co-administration of nelfinavir at steady-state with a single oral dose of azithromycin resulted in increased azithromycin serum concentrations. [see ADVERSE REACTIONS ( 6 )] 7.2 Warfarin Spontaneous postmarketing reports suggest that concomitant administration of azithromycin may potentiate the effects of oral anticoagulants such as warfarin, although the prothrombin time was not affected in the dedicated drug interaction study with azithromycin and warfarin. 7.3 Potential Drug-Drug Interactions with Macrolides Interactions with digoxin, colchicine or phenytoin have not been reported in clinical trials with azithromycin. No specific drug interaction studies have been performed to evaluate potential drug-drug interactions. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Nelfinavir: Close monitoring for known side effects of azithromycin, such as liver enzyme abnormalities and hearing impairment, is warranted.

=== SULFACETAMIDE SODIUM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS: This product is indicated for use in the topical control of acne vulgaris, acne rosacea and seborrheic dermatitis. INDICATIONS: This product is intended for topical application in the following scaling dermatoses: seborrheic dermatitis and seborrhea sicca (dandruff). It also is indicated for the treatment of secondary bacterial infections of the skin due to organisms susceptible to sulfonamides.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Cleanse affected areas. Apply a thin layer to the affected areas with light massaging, 1 to 3 times daily or as directed by a physician. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Shake well before using. Apply to wet hair and massage vigorously into scalp. Rinse thoroughly. For best results, use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor. Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes. Do not use on an infant less than 2 months of age. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Seborrheic dermatitis including seborrhea sicca - Shake well before using. Apply to affected areas twice daily (morning and evening), or as directed by your physician. Repeat application as described for eight to ten days. As the condition subsides, the interval between applications may be lengthened. Applications once or twice weekly or every other week may prevent recurrence. Should the condition recur after stopping therapy, the application of this product should be reinitiated as at the beginning of treatment. Secondary cutaneous bacterial infections - Shake well before using. Apply to affected areas twice daily for eight to ten days. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Wash affected areas once or twice daily, or as directed by your physician. Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed. Massage gently into skin for 10 to 20 seconds, working into a full lather, rinse thoroughly and pat dry. If skin dryness occurs, it may be controlled by rinsing product off sooner or using less frequently. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Shake well before use. Cleanse affected areas. Wash affected areas once or twice daily, or as directed by your physician. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Seborrheic dermatitis including seborrhea sicca - Shake well before use. Wash affected areas twice daily (morning and evening) or as directed by your physician. Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed, massage gently into skin working into a full lather, rinse thoroughly, pat dry and repeat after 10 to 20 seconds. Rinsing with plain water will remove any excess medication. Repeat application as described above for 8 to 10 days or as directed by your physician. lf skin dryness occurs it may be controlled by rinsing cleanser off sooner or using less frequently. Regular shampooing following the use of this product is not necessary, but the hair should be shampooed at least once a week. Secondary cutaneous bacterial infections - Shake well before use. Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed, massage gently into skin for 10 to 20 seconds working into a full lather, rinse thoroughly and pat dry. If skin dryness occurs it may be controlled by rinsing cleanser off sooner or using less frequently.
Warnings: WARNINGS: Sulfonamides are known to cause Stevens-Johnson syndrome in hypersensitive individuals. Stevens-Johnson syndrome also has been reported following the use of sodium sulfacetamide topically. Cases of drug-induced systemic lupus erythematosus from topical sulfacetamide also have been reported. In one of these cases, there was a fatal outcome. KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN. KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATION OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN. KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS: This product is contraindicated in persons with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of the product. This product is not to be used by patients with kidney disease.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions: . This product is incompatible with silver preparations.

=== ADAPALENE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Acne treatment Purpose .Acne treatment
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel 0.1% / 2.5% is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 9 years of age and older. Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel 0.1% / 2.5% is a combination of adapalene, a retinoid, and benzoyl peroxide, and is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 9 years of age and older. (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide topical gel is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older. Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide topical gel 0.3%/2.5%, is a combination of adapalene, a retinoid, and benzoyl peroxide and is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older. ( 1 ) Use For the treatment of acne
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For topical use only; adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel 0.1% / 2.5% is not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. Apply a thin film of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel 0.1% / 2.5% to affected areas of the face and/or trunk once daily after washing. Use a pea-sized amount for each area of the face (e.g., forehead, chin, each cheek). Avoid the eyes, lips and mucous membranes. Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel 0.1% / 2.5% is not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. (2) Apply a thin film of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel 0.1% / 2.5% to affected areas of the face and/or trunk once daily after washing. (2) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For topical use only. Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide topical gel is not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. Apply a thin layer of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide topical gel to affected areas of the face and/or trunk once daily after washing. Wash hands after application as adapalene and benzoyl peroxide topical gel may bleach hair or colored fabrics. For topical use only Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide topical gel is not for oral, ophthalmic or intravaginal use. ( 2 ) Apply a thin layer of adapalene and benzoyl peroxide topical gel to affected areas of the face and/or trunk once daily after washing. ( 2 ) Use a pea-sized amount for each area of the face (e.g., forehead, chin, each cheek). ( 2 ) Avoid the eyes, lips, and mucous membranes. ( 2 ) Directions Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and older: ▪ use once daily ▪ clean the skin gently and pat dry before applying the product ▪ cover the entire affected area with a thin layer. For example, if your acne is on the face, apply the product to the entire face. ▪ do not use more than one time a day. Applying more than directed will not provide faster or better results, but may worsen skin irritation. Children under 12 years of age: ask a doctor Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and older: use once daily clean the skin gently and pat dry before applying the product cover the entire affected area with a thin layer. For example, if your acne in on the face, apply the product to the entire face. do not use more than one time a day. Children under 12 years of age: ask a doctor Other information store at room temperature 68°-77°F protect from freezing Directions • use once daily • clean the skin gently and pat dry before applying the product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer. Adults and children 12 years of age and older: do not use more than one time a day. Applying more than directed will not provide faster or better results, but may worsen skin irritation Children under 12 years of age: ask a doctor • Adults and children 12 years of age and older: • Children under 12 years of age: ask a doctor Children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Do not use ▪on damaged skin (cuts, abrasions, eczema, sunburn) ▪ if you are allergic to adapalene or any of the ingredients in this product If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a doctor before use. When using this product ▪ limit sun exposure, including light from tanning beds, and use sunscreen when going outdoors. ▪ do not wax to remove hair in areas where the product has been applied ▪ during the early weeks of use, your acne may appear to worsen before it improves (this is normal); continue using as directed, unless you get irritation that becomes severe ▪ irritation (redness, itching, dryness, burning) is more likely to occur: ▪ in the first few weeks of use ▪ if using more than one topical acne medication at a time ▪ but irritation usually lessens with continued use of this product ▪ it may take up to 3 months of once daily use to see results ▪ avoid product contact with the eyes, lips, and mouth. If contact occurs, immediately flush the area with water. ▪ wash hands after use Stop use and ask a doctor if ▪ you become pregnant, or are planning to become pregnant while using the product ▪ you have symptoms of an allergic reaction (such as itching, rash, hives, swelling of the lips, eyelids, and shortness of breath) ▪ irritation becomes severe ▪ you see no improvement after 3 months of once daily use Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged skin (cuts, abrasions eczema, sunburn) if you are allergic to adapalene or any of the ingredients in this product Pregnancy/Breastfeeding, ask a doctor before use. When using this product limit sun exposure, including light from tanning beds, and use sunscreen when going outdoors. do not wax to remove hair in areas where the product has been applied during the early weeks of use, your acne may appear to worsen before it improves (this is normal); continue using as directed, unless you get irritation that become severe irritation (redness, itching, dryness, burning) is more likely to occur: in the first few weeks of use if using more than one topical acne medication at a time but irritation usually lessens with continued use of this product it may take up to 3 months of once daily use to see result avoid product contact eyes, lips, and month. If contact occurs immediately flush the area with water. wash hands after use Stop use and ask a doctor if you become pregnant, or planning to become pregnant while using this product you have symptoms of an allergic reaction (such as itching, rash, hives, swelling of the lips, eyelids, and shortness of breath) irritation become severe you see no improvement after 3 months of once daily use Keep out of reach of children. Warnings For external use only Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged skin (cuts, abrasions, eczema, sunburn) if you are allergic to adapalene or any of the ingredients in this product. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a doctor before use. When using this product limit sun exposure, including light from tanning beds, and use sunscreen when going outdoors do not wax to remove hair in areas where the product has been applied during the early weeks of use, your acne may appear to worsen before it improves (this is normal); continue using as directed, unless you get irritation that becomes severe irritation (redness, itching, dryness, burning) is more likely to occur: in the first few weeks of use if using more than one topical acne medication at a time but irritation usually lessens with continued use of this product it may take up to 3 months of once daily use to see results avoid product contact with eyes, lips, and mouth. wash hands after use Stop use and ask a doctor if you become pregnant, or are planning to become pregnant, while using the product you have symptoms of an allergic reaction (such as itching, rash, hives, swelling of the lips, eyelids, and shortness of breath) irritation becomes severe you see no improvement after 3 months of once daily use Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. wash hands after use Stop use and ask doctor if you become pregnant, or are planning to become pregnant, while using the product you have symptoms of an allergic reaction (such as itching, rash, hives, swelling of the lips, eyelids, and shortness of breath) irritation becomes severe you see no improvement after 3 months of once daily use Keep out of reach of children. Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged skin (cuts, abrasions, eczema, sunburn) if you are allergic to adapalene or any of the ingredients in this product If pregnant or breast-feeding If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a doctor before use When using this product limit sun exposure, including light from tanning beds, and use sunscreen when going outdoors do not wax to remove hair in areas where the product has been applied during the early weeks of use, your acne may appear to worsen before it improves (this is normal); continue using as directed, unless you get irritation that becomes severe irritation (redness, itching, dryness, burning) is more likely to occur: • in the first few weeks of use • if using more than one topical acne medication at a time • but irritation usually lessens with continued use of this product it may take up to 3 months of once daily use to see results avoid product contact with eyes, lips, and mouth. wash hands after use Stop use and ask a doctor if you become pregnant, or are planning to become pregnant, while using the product you have symptoms of an allergic reaction (such as itching, rash, hives, swelling of the lips, eyelids, and shortness of breath) irritation becomes severe you see no improvement after 3 months of once daily use Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Warnings For external use only • on damaged skin (cuts, abrasions, eczema, sunburn) • if you are allergic to adapalene or any of the ingredients in this product ask a doctor before use When using this product When using this product • • • • • • • limit sun exposure, including light from tanning beds, and use sunscreen when going outdoors do not wax to remove hair in areas where the product has been applied during the early weeks of use, your acne may appear to worsen before it improves (this is normal); continue using as directed, unless you get irritation that becomes severe irritation (redness, itching, dryness, burning) is more likely to occur: • in the first few weeks of use • if using more than one topical acne medication at a time • but irritation usually lessens with continued use of this product it may take up to 3 months of once daily use to see results avoid product contact with eyes, lips, and mouth. wash hands after use Stop use and ask doctor if you become pregnant, or are planning to become pregnant, while using the product you have symptoms of an allergic reaction (such as itching, rash, hives, swelling of the lips, eyelids, and shortness of breath) irritation becomes severe you see no improvement after 3 months of once daily use Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged skin (cuts, abrasions eczema, sunburn) if you are allergic to adapalene or any of the ingredients in this product If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a doctor before use. do not wax to remove hair in areas where the product has been applied during the early weeks of use, your acne may appear to worsen before it improves (this is normal); continue using as directed, unless you get irritation that become severe irritation (redness, itching, dryness, burning) is more likely to occur: in the first few weeks of use if using more than one topical acne medication at a time but irritation usually lessens with continued use of this product it may take up to 3 months of once daily use to see results avoid product contact eyes, lips, and mouth. wash hands after use Stop use and ask a doctor if you become pregnant, or planning to become pregnant while using the product you have symptoms of an allergic reaction (such as itching, rash, hives, swelling of the lips, eyelids, and shortness of breath) irritation become severe you see no improvement after 3 months of once daily use Keep out of reach of children.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide topical gel is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity reactions to benzoyl peroxide or any components of the formulation in adapalene and benzoyl peroxide topical gel. Adapalene and benzoyl peroxide topical gel is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity reactions to benzoyl peroxide or any components of the formulation in adapalene and benzoyl peroxide topical gel.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant topical acne therapy should be used with caution because a possible cumulative irritancy effect may occur, especially with the use of peeling, desquamating, or abrasive agents. No formal drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with adapalene and benzoyl peroxide gel 0.1% / 2.5%.

=== COLCHICINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Colchicine tablets are an alkaloid indicated for: • Prophylaxis and treatment of gout flares in adults ( 1.1 ). • Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) in adults and children 4 years or older ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. ). 1.1 Gout Flares Colchicine tablets are indicated for prophylaxis and the treatment of acute gout flares. • Prophylaxis of Gout Flares: Colchicine tablets are indicated for prophylaxis of gout flares. • Treatment of Gout Flares: Colchicine tablets are indicated for treatment of acute gout flares when taken at the first sign of a flare. 1.2 Familial Mediterranean Fever (FMF) Colchicine tablets are indicated in adults and children four years or older for treatment of familial Mediterranean fever (FMF). 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Colchicine tablets are an alkaloid indicated for: · Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) in adults and children 4 years or older ( 1.2 ). • Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) in adults and children 4 years or older ( 1.2 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Colchicine capsules are indicated for prophylaxis of gout flares in adults. Limitations of use: The safety and effectiveness of colchicine capsules for acute treatment of gout flares during prophylaxis has not been studied. Colchicine capsules are not an analgesic medication and should not be used to treat pain from other causes. Colchicine capsule is an alkaloid indicated for prophylaxis of gout flares in adults ( 1 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Colchicine tablets are an alkaloid indicated for: Prophylaxis and treatment of gout flares in adults ( 1.1 ). Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) in adults and children 4 years or older ( 1.2 ). Prophylaxis of Gout Flares: Colchicine tablets is indicated for prophylaxis of gout flares. Treatment of Gout Flares: Colchicine tablets are indicated for treatment of acute gout flares when taken at the first sign of a flare. Limitations of Use : The safety and effectiveness of colchicine capsules for acute treatment of gout flares during prophylaxis has not been studied. Colchicine capsules are an alkaloid indicated for prophylaxis of gout flares in adults ( 1 ). Limitations of Use : • The safety and effectiveness of colchicine capsules for acute treatment of gout flares during prophylaxis has not been studied. • Colchicine capsules are not an analgesic medication and should not be used to treat pain from other causes. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Colchicine tablets are an alkaloid indicated for: • Prophylaxis and treatment of gout flares in adults (1.1). • Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) in adults and children 4 years or older (1.2). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Colchicine tablets are an alkaloid indicated for: Prophylaxis and treatment of gout flares in adults (1.1). Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) in adults and children 4 years or older (1.2). • Prophylaxis of Gout Flares: Colchicine tablets is indicated for prophylaxis of gout flares.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The long-term use of colchicine is established for FMF and the prophylaxis of gout flares, but the safety and efficacy of repeat treatment for gout flares has not been evaluated. The dosing regimens for colchicine tablets are different for each indication and must be individualized. The recommended dosage of colchicine tablets depends on the patient’s age, renal function, hepatic function and use of coadministered drugs [see Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. , Error! ] . Colchicine tablets are administered orally without regard to meals. Colchicine tablets are not an analgesic medication and should not be used to treat pain from other causes. • Gout Flares: Prophylaxis of Gout Flares: 0.6 mg once or twice daily in adults and adolescents older than 16 years of age ( Error! ). Maximum dose 1.2 mg/day. Treatment of Gout Flares: 1.2 mg (two tablets) at the first sign of a gout flare followed by 0.6 mg (one tablet) one hour later ( Error! • FMF: Adults and children older than 12 years 1.2 - 2.4 mg; children 6 to 12 years 0.9 - 1.8 mg; children 4 to 6 years 0.3 - 1.8 mg ( Error! o Give total daily dose in one or two divided doses ( Error! o Increase or decrease the dose as indicated and as tolerated in increments of 0.3 mg/day, not to exceed the maximum recommended daily dose ( Error! • Colchicine tablets are administered orally without regard to meals. • See full prescribing information (FPI) for dose adjustment regarding patients with impaired renal function ( Error! ), impaired hepatic function ( Error! ), the patient’s age ( Error! ) or use of coadministered drugs ( Error! 2.1 Gout Flares Prophylaxis of Gout Flares The recommended dosage of colchicine tablets for prophylaxis of gout flares for adults and adolescents older than 16 years of age is 0.6 mg once or twice daily. The maximum recommended dose for prophylaxis of gout flares is 1.2 mg/day. An increase in gout flares may occur after initiation of uric acid-lowering therapy, including pegloticase, febuxostat and allopurinol, due to changing serum uric acid levels resulting in mobilization of urate from tissue deposits. Colchicine tablets are recommended upon initiation of gout flare prophylaxis with uric acid-lowering therapy. Prophylactic therapy may be beneficial for at least the first six months of uric acid-lowering therapy. Treatment of Gout Flares The recommended dose of colchicine tablets for treatment of a gout flare is 1.2 mg (two tablets) at the first sign of the flare followed by 0.6 mg (one tablet) one hour later. Higher doses have not been found to be more effective. The maximum recommended dose for treatment of gout flares is 1.8 mg over a 1-hour period. Colchicine tablets may be administered for treatment of a gout flare during prophylaxis at doses not to exceed 1.2 mg (two tablets) at the first sign of the flare followed by 0.6 mg (one tablet) one hour later. Wait 12 hours and then resume the prophylactic dose. 2.2 FMF The recommended dosage of colchicine tablets for FMF in adults is 1.2 mg to 2.4 mg daily. Colchicine tablets should be increased as needed to control disease and as tolerated in increments of 0.3 mg/day to a maximum recommended daily dose. If intolerable side effects develop, the dose should be decreased in increments of 0.3 mg/day. The total daily colchicine tablets dose may be administered in one to two divided doses. 2.3 Recommended Pediatric Dosage Prophylaxis and Treatment of Gout Flares Colchicine tablets are not recommended for pediatric use in prophylaxis or treatment of gout flares. FMF The recommended dosage of colchicine tablets for FMF in pediatric patients 4 years of age and older is based on age. The following daily doses may be given as a single or divided dose twice daily: • Children 4 to 6 years: 0.3 mg to 1.8 mg daily • Children 6 to 12 years: 0.9 mg to 1.8 mg daily • Adolescents older than 12 years: 1.2 mg to 2.4 mg daily 2.4 Dose Modification for Coadministration of Interacting Drugs Concomitant Therapy Coadministration of colchicine tablets with drugs known to inhibit CYP3A4 and/or P-glycoprotein (P-gp) increases the risk of colchicine-induced toxic effects (Table 1) . If patients are taking or have recently completed treatment with drugs listed in Table 1 within the prior 14 days, the dose adjustments are as shown in the table below [see Error! Table 1. Colchicine Tablets Dose Adjustment for Coadministration with Interacting Drugs if No Alternative Available For magnitude of effect on colchicine plasma concentrations [see Error! ] Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine tablets in conjunction with strong CYP3A4 or P-gp inhibitors [see Error! ] Gout Flares Noted or Anticipated Outcome Prophylaxis of Gout Flares Treatment of Gout Flares FMF Drug Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Atazanavir Clarithromycin Darunavir/ Ritonavir When used in combination with Ritonavir, see dosing recommendations for strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Error! ] Indinavir Itraconazole Ketoconazole Lopinavir/ Ritonavir Nefazodone Nelfinavir Ritonavir Saquinavir Telithromycin Tipranavir/ Ritonavir Significant increase in colchicine plasma levels; fatal colchicine toxicity has been reported with clarithromycin, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Similarly, significant increase in colchicine plasma levels is anticipated with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors 0.6 mg twice a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day 1.2 mg (2 tablets) followed by 0.6 mg (1 tablet) 1 hour later. Dose to be repeated no earlier than 3 days. 0.6 mg (1 tablet) x 1 dose, followed by 0.3 mg (1/2 tablet) 1 hour later. Maximum daily dose of 1.2 mg - 2.4 mg Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors Gout Flares Note or Anticipated Outcome Prophylaxis of Gout Flares Treatment of Gout Flares FMF Drug Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dosage Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dosage Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dosage Amprenavir Aprepitant Diltiazem Erythromycin Fluconazole Fosamprenavir (prodrug of Amprenavir) Grapefruit juice Verapamil Significant increase in colchicine plasma concentration is anticipated. Neuromuscular toxicity has been reported with diltiazem and verapamil interactions. 0.6 mg twice a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg twice a day or 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once a day 1.2 mg (2 tablets) followed by 0.6 mg (1 tablet) 1 hour later. 1.2 mg (2 tablets) x 1 dose. Maximum daily dose of 1.2 mg - 2.4 mg Maximum daily dose of 1.2 mg (may be given as 0.6 mg twice a day) P-gp Inhibitors Gout Flares Note or Anticipated Outcome Prophylaxis of Gout Flares Treatment of Gout Flares FMF Drug Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dosage Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dosage Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dosage Cyclosporine Ranolazine Significant increase in colchicine plasma levels; fatal colchicine toxicity has been reported with cyclosporine, a P-gp inhibitor. Similarly, significant increase in colchicine plasma levels is anticipated with other P-gp inhibitors. 0.6 mg twice a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day 1.2 mg (2 tablets) followed by 0.6 mg (1 tablet) 1 hour later. 0.6 mg (1 tablet) x 1 dose. Maximum daily dose of 1.2 mg - 2.4 mg Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) Table 2. Colchicine Tablets Dose Adjustment for Coadministration with Protease Inhibitors Protease Inhibitor Clinical Comment w/ Colchicine - Prophylaxis of Gout Flares w/o Colchicine – Treatment of Gout Flares w/Colchicine – Treatment of FMF Atazanavir sulfate (Reyataz) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Reyataz. Original dose Adjusted dose 0.6 mg (1 tablet) x 1 dose, followed by 0.3 mg (1/2 tablet) 1 hour later. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Darunavir (Prezista) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Prezista/ritonavir. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Fosamprenavir (Lexiva) with Ritonavir Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Lexiva/ritonavir. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Fosamprenavir (Lexiva) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Lexiva/ritonavir Original dose Adjusted dose 1.2 mg (2 tablets) x 1 dose. Maximum daily dose of 1.2 mg (may be given as 0.6 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg twice a day or 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once a day Indinavir (Crixivan) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Crixivan. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Lopinavir/ Ritonavir (Kaletra) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Kaletra. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Nelfinavir mesylate (Viracept) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Viracept. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Ritonavir (Norvir) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Norvir. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Saquinavir mesylate (Invirase) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Invirase/ritonavir. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Tipranavir (Aptivus) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Aptivus/ritonavir. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Treatment of gout flares with colchicine tablets is not recommended in patients receiving prophylactic dose of colchicine tablets and CYP3A4 inhibitors. 2.5 Dose Modification in Renal Impairment Colchicine dosing must be individualized according to the patient's renal function [see Error! Cl cr in mL/minute may be estimated from serum creatinine (mg/dL) determination using the following formula: Gout Flares Prophylaxis of Gout Flares For prophylaxis of gout flares in patients with mild (estimated creatinine clearance [Cl cr ] 50 to 80 mL/min) to moderate (Cl cr 30 to 50 mL/min) renal function impairment, adjustment of the recommended dose is not required, but patients should be monitored closely for adverse effects of colchicine. However, in patients with severe impairment, the starting dose should be 0.3 mg/day and any increase in dose should be done with close monitoring. For the prophylaxis of gout flares in patients undergoing dialysis, the starting doses should be 0.3 mg given twice a week with close monitoring [see Error! Treatment of Gout Flares For treatment of gout flares in patients with mild (Cl cr 50 to 80 mL/min) to moderate (Cl cr 30 to 50 mL/min) renal function impairment, adjustment of the recommended dose is not required, but patients should be monitored closely for adverse effects of colchicine. However, in patients with severe impairment, while the dose does not need to be adjusted for the treatment of gout flares, a treatment course should be repeated no more than once every two weeks. For patients with gout flares requiring repeated courses, consideration should be given to alternate therapy. For patients undergoing dialysis, the total recommended dose for the treatment of gout flares should be reduced to a single dose of 0.6 mg (one tablet). For these patients, the treatment course should not be repeated more than once every two weeks [see Error! Treatment of gout flares with colchicine tablets is not recommended in patients with renal impairment who are receiving colchicine tablets for prophylaxis. FMF Caution should be taken in dosing patients with moderate and severe renal impairment and in patients undergoing dialysis. For these patients, the dosage should be reduced [see Error! Patients with mild (Cl cr 50 to 80 mL/min) and moderate (Cl cr 30 to 50 mL/min) renal impairment should be monitored closely for adverse effects of colchicine tablets. Dose reduction may be necessary. For patients with severe renal failure (Cl cr less than 30 mL/min), start with 0.3 mg/day; any increase in dose should be done with adequate monitoring of the patient for adverse effects of colchicine [see Error! For patients undergoing dialysis, the total recommended starting dose should be 0.3 mg (half tablet) per day. Dosing can be increased with close monitoring. Any increase in dose should be done with adequate monitoring of the patient for adverse effects of colchicine [see Error! Dosing Calculation 2.6 Dose Modification in Hepatic Impairment Gout Flares Prophylaxis of Gout Flares For prophylaxis of gout flares in patients with mild to moderate hepatic function impairment, adjustment of the recommended dose is not required, but patients should be monitored closely for adverse effects of colchicine. Dose reduction should be considered for the prophylaxis of gout flares in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Error! Treatment of Gout Flares For treatment of gout flares in patients with mild to moderate hepatic function impairment, adjustment of the recommended dose is not required, but patients should be monitored closely for adverse effects of colchicine. However, for the treatment of gout flares in patients with severe impairment, while the dose does not need to be adjusted, a treatment course should be repeated no more than once every two weeks. For these patients, requiring repeated courses for the treatment of gout flares, consideration should be given to alternate therapy [see Error! Treatment of gout flares with colchicine tablets is not recommended in patients with hepatic impairment who are receiving colchicine tablets for prophylaxis. FMF Patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment should be monitored closely for adverse effects of colchicine. Dose reduction should be considered in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Error! 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION The long-term use of colchicine is established for FMF. The recommended dosage of colchicine tablets depends on the patient’s age, renal function, hepatic function and use of coadministered drugs [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6 )]. FMF: Adults and children older than 12 years 1.2 – 2.4 mg; children 6 to 12 years 0.9 – 1.8 mg; children 4 to 6 years 0.3 – 1.8 mg ( 2.2 , 2.3 ). Give total daily dose in one or two divided doses ( 2.2 ). Increase or decrease the dose as indicated and as tolerated in increments of 0.3 mg/day, not to exceed the maximum recommended daily dose ( 2.2 ). See full prescribing information (FPI) for dose adjustment regarding patients with impaired renal function ( 2.5 ), impaired hepatic function ( 2.6 ), the patient’s age ( 2.3 , 8.5 ) or use of coadministered drugs ( 2.4 ). 2.3 Recommended Pediatric Dosage FMF The recommended dosage of colchicine tablets for FMF in pediatric patients 4 years of age and older is based on age. The following daily doses may be given as a single or divided dose twice daily: · Children 4 to 6 years: 0.3 mg to 1.8 mg daily · Children 6 to 12 years: 0.9 mg to 1.8 mg daily · Adolescents older than 12 years: 1.2 mg to 2.4 mg daily 2.4 Dose Modification for Coadministration of Interacting Drugs Concomitant Therapy Coadministration of colchicine tablets with drugs known to inhibit CYP3A4 and/or P-glycoprotein (P-gp) increases the risk of colchicine-induced toxic effects (Table 1) . If patients are taking or have recently completed treatment with drugs listed in Table 1 within the prior 14 days, the dose adjustments are as shown in the table below [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. Colchicine tablets Dose Adjustment for Coadministration with Interacting Drugs if No Alternative Available* Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors † Drug Noted or Anticipated Outcome FMF Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Atazanavir Clarithromycin Darunavir/ Ritonavir ‡ Indinavir Itraconazole Ketoconazole Lopinavir/ Ritonavir ‡ Nefazodone Nelfinavir Ritonavir Saquinavir Telithromycin Tipranavir/Ritonavir ‡ Significant increase in colchicine plasma levels*; fatal colchicine toxicity has been reported with clarithromycin, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Similarly, significant increase in colchicine plasma levels is anticipated with other strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Maximum daily dose of 1.2 – 2.4 mg Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors FMF Drug Noted or Anticipated Outcome Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Amprenavir ‡ Aprepitant Diltiazem Erythromycin Fluconazole Fosamprenavir ‡ (prodrug of Amprenavir) Grapefruit juice Verapamil Significant increase in colchicine plasma concentration is anticipated. Maximum daily dose of 1.2 – 2.4 mg Maximum daily dose of 1.2 mg (may be given as 0.6 mg twice a day) P-gp Inhibitors † FMF Drug Noted or Anticipated Outcome Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Cyclosporine Ranolazine Significant increase in colchicine plasma levels*; fatal colchicine toxicity has been reported with cyclosporine, a P-gp inhibitor. Maximum daily dose of 1.2 –2.4 mg Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) * For magnitude of effect on colchicine plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] † Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine tablets in conjunction with strong CYP3A4 or P-gp inhibitors [see Contraindications ( 4 )] ‡ When used in combination with Ritonavir, see dosing recommendations for strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Contraindications ( 4 )] Table 2. Colchicine tablets Dose Adjustment for Coadministration with Protease Inhibitors Protease Inhibitor Clinical Comment w/Colchicine ­Treatment of FMF Atazanavir sulfate (Reyataz) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Reyataz. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) Darunavir (Prezista) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Prezista/ ritonavir. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) Fosamprenavir (Lexiva) with Ritonavir Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Lexiva/ritonavir. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) Fosamprenavir (Lexiva) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Lexiva/ritonavir. Maximum daily dose of 1.2 mg (may be given as 0.6 mg twice a day) Indinavir (Crixivan) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Crixivan. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) Lopinavir/ Ritonavir (Kaletra) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Kaletra. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) Nelfinavir mesylate (Viracept) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Viracept. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) Ritonavir (Norvir) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Norvir. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) Saquinavir mesylate (Invirase) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Invirase/ ritonavir. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) Tipranavir (Aptivus) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Aptivus/ritonavir. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 2.5 Dose Modification in Renal Impairment Colchicine dosing must be individualized according to the patient's renal function [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. Clcr in mL/minute may be estimated from serum creatinine (mg/dL) determination using the following formula: FMF Caution should be taken in dosing patients with moderate and severe renal impairment and in patients undergoing dialysis. For these patients, the dosage should be reduced [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Patients with mild (Clcr 50 to 80 mL/min) and moderate (Clcr 30 to 50 mL/min) renal impairment should be monitored closely for adverse effects of colchicine tablets. For patients with severe renal failure (Clcr less than 30 mL/min), start with 0.3 mg/day; any increase in dose should be done with adequate monitoring of the patient for adverse effects of colchicine [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. Any increase in dose should be done with adequate monitoring of the patient for adverse effects of colchicine [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. 2.6 Dose Modification in Hepatic Impairment FMF Patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment should be monitored closely for adverse effects of colchicine. Dose reduction should be considered in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )]. The recommended dosage of colchicine tablets depends on the patient’s age, renal function, hepatic function and use of coadministered drugs [see Dosage and Administration (2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6) ] . • Gout Flares: Prophylaxis of Gout Flares: 0.6 mg once or twice daily in adults and adolescents older than 16 years of age ( 2.1 ). Treatment of Gout Flares: 1.2 mg (two tablets) at the first sign of a gout flare followed by 0.6 mg (one tablet) one hour later ( 2.1 ). • FMF: Adults and children older than 12 years 1.2 - 2.4 mg; children 6 to 12 years 0.9 - 1.8 mg; children 4 to 6 years 0.3 - 1.8 mg ( 2.2 , 2.3 ). o Give total daily dose in one or two divided doses ( 2.2 ). o Increase or decrease the dose as indicated and as tolerated in increments of 0.3 mg/day, not to exceed the maximum recommended daily dose ( 2.2 ). • See full prescribing information (FPI) for dose adjustment regarding patients with impaired renal function ( 2.5 ), impaired hepatic function ( 2.6 ), the patient’s age ( 2.3 , 8.5 ) or use of coadministered drugs ( 2.4 ). If patients are taking or have recently completed treatment with drugs listed in Table 1 within the prior 14 days, the dose adjustments are as shown in the table below [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Colchicine Tablets Dose Adjustment for Coadministration with Interacting Drugs if No Alternative Available For magnitude of effect on colchicine plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine tablets in conjunction with strong CYP3A4 or P-gp inhibitors [see Contraindications (4) ] Gout Flares Noted or Anticipated Outcome Prophylaxis of Gout Flares Treatment of Gout Flares FMF Drug Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Atazanavir Clarithromycin Darunavir/ Ritonavir When used in combination with Ritonavir, see dosing recommendations for strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Contraindications (4) ] Indinavir Itraconazole Ketoconazole Lopinavir/ Ritonavir Nefazodone Nelfinavir Ritonavir Saquinavir Telithromycin Tipranavir/ Ritonavir Significant increase in colchicine plasma levels; fatal colchicine toxicity has been reported with clarithromycin, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. 2.5 Dose Modification in Renal Impairment Colchicine dosing must be individualized according to the patient's renal function [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . For the prophylaxis of gout flares in patients undergoing dialysis, the starting doses should be 0.3 mg given twice a week with close monitoring [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . For these patients, the treatment course should not be repeated more than once every two weeks [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . For these patients, the dosage should be reduced [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . For patients with severe renal failure (Cl cr less than 30 mL/min), start with 0.3 mg/day; any increase in dose should be done with adequate monitoring of the patient for adverse effects of colchicine [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . Any increase in dose should be done with adequate monitoring of the patient for adverse effects of colchicine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . 2.6 Dose Modification in Hepatic Impairment Gout Flares Prophylaxis of Gout Flares For prophylaxis of gout flares in patients with mild to moderate hepatic function impairment, adjustment of the recommended dose is not required, but patients should be monitored closely for adverse effects of colchicine. Dose reduction should be considered for the prophylaxis of gout flares in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] . For these patients, requiring repeated courses for the treatment of gout flares, consideration should be given to alternate therapy [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] . Dose reduction should be considered in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage is 0.6 mg (one capsule) once or twice daily ( 2 ). Colchicine capsules are administered orally, without regard to meals ( 2 ). 2.1 Recommended Dosage for Gout Prophylaxis For prophylaxis of gout flares, the recommended dosage of colchicine capsules is 0.6 mg once or twice daily. The maximum dose is 1.2 mg per day. Colchicine capsules are administered orally, without regard to meals. The recommended dosage of Colchicine tablets depends on the patient's age, renal function, hepatic function and use of coadministered drugs [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6 )]. Colchicine tablets is not an analgesic medication and should not be used to treat pain from other causes. Gout Flares: Prophylaxis of Gout Flares: 0.6 mg once or twice daily in adults and adolescents older than 16 years of age ( 2.1 ). FMF : Adults and children older than 12 years 1.2 – 2.4 mg; children 6 to 12 years 0.9 – 1.8 mg; children 4 to 6 years 0.3 – 1.8 mg. ( 2.2 , 2.3 ). See full prescribing information (FPI) for dose adjustment regarding patients with impaired renal function ( 2.5 ), impaired hepatic function ( 2.6 ), the patient's age ( 2.3 , 8.5 ) or use of coadministered drugs ( 2.4 ). Colchicine tablets is recommended upon initiation of gout flare prophylaxis with uric acid-lowering therapy. 2.3 Recommended Pediatric Dosage Prophylaxis and Treatment of Gout Flares Colchicine tablets is not recommended for pediatric use in prophylaxis or treatment of gout flares. The following daily doses may be given as a single or divided dose twice daily: Children 4 to 6 years: 0.3 mg to 1.8 mg daily Children 6 to 12 years: 0.9 mg to 1.8 mg daily Adolescents older than 12 years: 1.2 mg to 2.4 mg daily 2.4 Dose Modification for Coadministration of Interacting Drugs Concomitant Therapy Coadministration of Colchicine tablets with drugs known to inhibit CYP3A4 and/or P-glycoprotein (P-gp) increases the risk of colchicine-induced toxic effects ( Table 1 ). Table 1: Colchicine tablets Dose Adjustment for Co-administration with Interacting Drugs if no Alternative Available For magnitude of effect on colchicine plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine tablets in conjunction with strong CYP3A4 or P-gp inhibitors [see Contraindications (4)] Drug Noted or Anticipated Outcome Gout Flares FMF Prophylaxis of Gout Flares Treatment of Gout Flares Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Atazanavir Clarithromycin Darunavir/Ritonavir When used in combination with Ritonavir, see dosing recommendations for strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Contraindications (4)] Indinavir Itraconazole Ketoconazole Lopinavir/Ritonavir Nefazodone Nelfinavir Ritonavir Saquinavir Telithromycin Tipranavir/Ritonavir Significant increase in colchicine plasma levels ; fatal colchicine toxicity has been reported with clarithromycin, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. 0.6 mg twice a day 0.3 mg once a day 1.2 mg (2 tablets) followed by 0.6 mg (1 tablet) 1 hour later. 0.6 mg (1 tablet) × 1 dose, followed by 0.3 mg (1/2 tablet) 1 hour later. Maximum daily dose of 1.2 – 2.4 mg Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors Drug Noted or Anticipated Outcome Gout Flares FMF Prophylaxis of Gout Flares Treatment of Gout Flares Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Amprenavir Aprepitant Diltiazem Erythromycin Fluconazole Fosamprenavir (pro-drug of Amprenavir) Grapefruit juice Verapamil Significant increase in colchicine plasma concentration is anticipated. 0.6 mg twice a day 0.3 mg twice a day or 0.6 mg once a day 1.2 mg (2 tablets) followed by 0.6 mg (1 tablet) 1 hour later. 1.2 mg (2 tablets) × 1 dose. Maximum daily dose of 1.2 – 2.4 mg Maximum daily dose of 1.2 mg (may be given as 0.6 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once a day P-gp Inhibitors Drug Noted or Anticipated Outcome Gout Flares FMF Prophylaxis of Gout Flares Treatment of Gout Flares Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Cyclosporine Ranolazine Significant increase in colchicine plasma levels ; fatal colchicine toxicity has been reported with cyclosporine, a P-gp inhibitor. 0.6 mg (1 tablet) × 1 dose. Maximum daily dose of 1.2 – 2.4 mg Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Table 2. Colchicine Dose Adjustment for Coadministration with Protease Inhibitors Protease Inhibitor Clinical Comment w/Colchicine - Prophylaxis of Gout Flares w/Colchicine - Treatment of Gout Flares w/Colchicine - Treatment of FMF Atazanavir sulfate (Reyataz) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Reyataz. Original dose Adjusted dose 0.6 mg (1 tablet) × 1 dose, followed by 0.3 mg (1/2 tablet) 1 hour later. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Darunavir (Prezista) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Prezista/ritonavir. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Fosamprenavir (Lexiva) with Ritonavir Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Lexiva/ritonavir. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Fosamprenavir (Lexiva) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Lexiva/ritonavir. Original dose Adjusted dose 1.2 mg (2 tablets) × 1 dose. Maximum daily dose of 1.2 mg (may be given as 0.6 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.3 mg twice a day or 0.6 mg once a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once a day Indinavir (Crixivan) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Crixivan. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Lopinavir/Ritonavir (Kaletra) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Kaletra. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Nelfinavir mesylate (Viracept) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Viracept. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Ritonavir (Norvir) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Norvir. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Saquinavir mesylate (Invirase) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Invirase/ ritonavir. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Tipranavir (Aptivus) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Aptivus/ritonavir. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Treatment of gout flares with colchicine tablets is not recommended in patients receiving prophylactic dose of Colchicine and CYP3A4 inhibitors. 2.5 Dose Modification in Renal Impairment Colchicine dosing must be individualized according to the patient's renal function [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. Cl cr in mL/minute may be estimated from serum creatinine (mg/dL) determination using the following formula: [140-age (years) × weight (kg)] Cl cr = 72 × serum creatinine (mg/dL) × 0.85 for female patients Gout Flares Prophylaxis of Gout Flares For prophylaxis of gout flares in patients with mild (estimated creatinine clearance [Cl cr ] 50 to 80 mL/min) to moderate (Cl cr 30 to 50 mL/min) renal function impairment, adjustment of the recommended dose is not required, but patients should be monitored closely for adverse effects of colchicine. For the prophylaxis of gout flares in patients undergoing dialysis, the starting doses should be 0.3 mg given twice a week with close monitoring [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. For these patients, the treatment course should not be repeated more than once every two weeks [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. For these patients, the dosage should be reduced [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. For patients with severe renal failure (Cl cr less than 30 mL/min), start with 0.3 mg/day; any increase in dose should be done with adequate monitoring of the patient for adverse effects of colchicine [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. Any increase in dose should be done with adequate monitoring of the patient for adverse effects of colchicine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. Dose reduction should be considered for the prophylaxis of gout flares in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ]. For these patients, requiring repeated courses for the treatment of gout flares, consideration should be given to alternate therapy [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ]. Treatment of gout flares with Colchicine is not recommended in patients with hepatic impairment who are receiving Colchicine for prophylaxis. Dose reduction should be considered in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The recommended dosage is 0.6 mg (one capsule) once or twice daily ( 2 ). • Colchicine capsules are administered orally, without regard to meals ( 2 ). The maximum dosage is 1.2 mg per day. The recommended dosage of colchicine tablets depends on the patient’s age, renal function, hepatic function and use of coadministered drugs [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4, 2.5, 2.6)]. • Gout Flares: Prophylaxis of Gout Flares: 0.6 mg once or twice daily in adults and adolescents older than 16 years of age (2.1). Treatment of Gout Flares: 1.2 mg (two tablets) at the first sign of a gout flare followed by 0.6 mg (one tablet) one hour later (2.1). • FMF: Adults and children older than 12 years 1.2 to 2.4 mg; children 6 to 12 years 0.9 to 1.8 mg; children 4 to 6 years 0.3 to 1.8 mg ( 2.2, 2.3). o Give total daily dose in one or two divided doses (2.2). o Increase or decrease the dose as indicated and as tolerated in increments of 0.3 mg/day, not to exceed the maximum recommended daily dose (2.2). • See full prescribing information (FPI) for dose adjustment regarding patients with impaired renal function (2.5), impaired hepatic function (2.6), the patient’s age (2.3, 8.5) or use of coadministered drugs (2.4). The following daily doses may be given as a single or divided dose twice daily: • Children 4 to 6 years: 0.3 mg to 1.8 mg daily • Children 6 to 12 years: 0.9 mg to 1.8 mg daily • Adolescents older than 12 years: 1.2 mg to 2.4 mg daily 2.4 Dose Modification for Coadministration of Interacting Drugs Concomitant Therapy Coadministration of colchicine tablets with drugs known to inhibit CYP3A4 and/or P-glycoprotein (P-gp) increases the risk of colchicine-induced toxic effects (Table 1). If patients are taking or have recently completed treatment with drugs listed in Table 1 within the prior 14 days, the dose adjustments are as shown in the table below [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Colchicine Tablets Dose Adjustment for Coadministration with Interacting Drugs if No Alternative Available* Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors † Gout Flares Drug Noted or Anticipated O utcome Prophylaxis of Gout Flares Treatment of Gout Flares F M F Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose O ri ginal Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Atazanavir Clarithromycin Darunavir/ Ritonavir ‡ Indinavir Itraconazole Ketoconazole Lopinavir/ Ritonavir ‡ Nefazodone Nelfinavir Ritonavir Saquinavir Telithromycin Tipranavir/ Ritonavir ‡ Significant increase in colchicine plasma levels*; fatal colchicine toxicity has been reported with clarithromycin, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Maximum daily dose of 1.2 to 2.4 mg Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors Drug Noted or Anticipated O utcome Gout Flares F M F Prophylaxis of Gout Flares Treatment of Gout Flares O ri ginal Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Amprenavir ‡ Aprepitant Diltiazem Erythromycin Fluconazole Fosamprenavir ‡ (pro-drug of Amprenavir) Grapefruit juice Verapamil Significant increase in colchicine plasma concentration is anticipated. Maximum daily dose of 1.2 to 2.4 mg Maximum daily dose of 1.2 mg (may be given as 0.6 mg twice a day) P-gp Inhibitors † Drug Noted or Anticipated Outcome Gout Flares FMF Prophylaxis of Gout Flares Treatment of Gout Flares O ri ginal Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Cyclosporine Ranolazine Significant increase in colchicine plasma levels*; fatal colchicine toxicity has been reported with cyclosporine, a P-gp inhibitor. Maximum daily dose of 1.2 to 2.4 mg Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) * For magnitude of effect on colchicine plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)] † Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine in conjunction with strong CYP3A4 or P-gp inhibitors [see Contraindications (4)] ‡ When used in combination with Ritonavir, see dosing recommendations for strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Contraindications (4)] T a ble 2. Colchicine Tablets Dose Adjustment for Coadministration with Protease Inhibitors Protease Inhibitor Clinical Comment w/Colchicine -Prophylaxis of Gout Flares w/Colchicine -Treatment of Gout Flares w/Colchicine - Treatment of FMF Atazanavir sulfate (Reyataz) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Reyataz. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Darunavir (Prezista) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Prezista/ ritonavir. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Fosamprenavir (Lexiva) with Ritonavir Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Lexiva/ ritonavir. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Fosamprenavir (Lexiva) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Lexiva/ ritonavir. Original dose Adjusted dose 1.2 mg (2 tablets) x 1 dose. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Saquinavir mesylate (Invirase) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Invirase/ ritonavir. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Tipranavir (Aptivus) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Aptivus/ ritonavir. 2.5 Dose Modification in Renal Impairment Colchicine dosing must be individualized according to the patient's renal function [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]. Cl cr in mL/minute may be estimated from serum creatinine (mg/dL) determination using the following formula: [140-age (years) x weight (kg)] Cl cr = 72 x serum creatinine (mg/dL) x 0.85 for female patients Gout Flares Prophylaxis of Gout Flares For prophylaxis of gout flares in patients with mild (estimated creatinine clearance [Cl cr ] 50 to 80 mL/min) to moderate (Cl cr 30 to 50 mL/min) renal function impairment, adjustment of the recommended dose is not required, but patients should be monitored closely for adverse effects of colchicine. For the prophylaxis of gout flares in patients undergoing dialysis, the starting doses should be 0.3 mg given twice a week with close monitoring [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3), Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]. For these patients, the treatment course should not be repeated more than once every two weeks [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3), Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]. For these patients, the dosage should be reduced [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Patients with mild (Cl cr 50 to 80 mL/min) and moderate (Cl cr 30 to 50 mL/min) renal impairment should be monitored closely for adverse effects of colchicine. Any increase in dose should be done with adequate monitoring of the patient for adverse effects of colchicine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3), Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]. Dose reduction should be considered for the prophylaxis of gout flares in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7)]. For these patients, requiring repeated courses for the treatment of gout flares, consideration should be given to alternate therapy [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7)]. Dose reduction should be considered in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7)]. The recommended dosage of Colchicine tablets depends on the patient's age, renal function, hepatic function and use of coadministered drugs [see Dosage and Administration (2.4, 2.5, 2.6)] . Gout Flares : Prophylaxis of Gout Flares: 0.6 mg once or twice daily in adults and adolescents older than 16 years of age (2.1). FMF: Adults and children older than 12 years 1.2 – 2.4 mg; children 6 to 12 years 0.9 – 1.8 mg; children 4 to 6 years 0.3 – 1.8 mg. (2.2, 2.3). Give total daily dose in one or two divided doses (2.2). Increase or decrease the dose as indicated and as tolerated in increments of 0.3 mg/day, not to exceed the maximum recommended daily dose (2.2). See full prescribing information (FPI) for dose adjustment regarding patients with impaired renal function (2.5), impaired hepatic function (2.6), the patient's age (2.3, 8.5) or use of coadministered drugs (2.4). If patients are taking or have recently completed treatment with drugs listed in Table 1 within the prior 14 days, the dose adjustments are as shown in the table below [see Drug Interactions (7)] . Table 1: Colchicine tablets Dose Adjustment for Co-administration with Interacting Drugs if no Alternative Available* * For magnitude of effect on colchicine plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] † When used in combination with Ritonavir, see dosing recommendations for strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Contraindications (4)] ‡ Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine tablets in conjunction with strong CYP3A4 or P-gp inhibitors [see Contraindications (4)] Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors † Drug Noted or Anticipated Outcome Gout Flares FMF Prophylaxis of Gout Flares Treatment of Gout Flares Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Atazanavir Clarithromycin Darunavir/ Ritonavir † Indinavir Itraconazole Ketoconazole Lopinavir/ Ritonavir † Nefazodone Nelfinavir Ritonavir Saquinavir Telithromycin Tipranavir/ Ritonavir † Significant increase in colchicine plasma levels * ; fatal colchicine toxicity has been reported with clarithromycin, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor. Maximum daily dose of 1.2 – 2.4 mg Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors Drug Noted or Anticipated Outcome Gout Flares FMF Prophylaxis of Gout Flares Treatment of Gout Flares Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Amprenavir † Aprepitant Diltiazem Erythromycin Fluconazole Fosamprenavir † (pro-drug of Amprenavir) Grapefruit juice Verapamil Significant increase in colchicine plasma concentration is anticipated. Maximum daily dose of 1.2 – 2.4 mg. Maximum daily dose of 1.2 mg (may be given as 0.6 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once a day P-gp Inhibitors ‡ Drug Noted or Anticipated Outcome Gout Flares FMF Prophylaxis of Gout Flares Treatment of Gout Flares Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Original Intended Dosage Adjusted Dose Cyclosporine Ranolazine Significant increase in colchicine plasma levels * ; fatal colchicine toxicity has been reported with cyclosporine, a P-gp inhibitor. Similarly, significant increase in colchicine plasma levels is anticipated with other P-gp inhibitors 0.6 mg twice a day 0.3 mg once a day 1.2 mg (2 tablets) Followed by 0.6 mg (1 tablet) 1 hour later. Colchicine Dose Adjustment for Coadministration with Protease Inhibitors Protease Inhibitor Clinical Comment w/Colchicine - Prophylaxis of Gout Flares w/Colchicine - Treatment of Gout Flares w/Colchicine - Treatment of FMF Atazanavir sulfate. (Reyataz) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Reyataz. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Fosamprenavir (Lexiva) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Lexiva/ritonavir. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Lopinavir/Ritonavir (Kaletra) Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine with Kaletra. Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day) 0.6 mg twice a day 0.6 mg once a day 0.3 mg once a day 0.3 mg once every other day Treatment of gout flares with colchicine tablets is not recommended in patients receiving prophylactic dose of Colchicine and CYP3A4 inhibitors. Cl cr in mL/minute may be estimated from serum creatinine (mg/dL) determination using the following formula: [140-age (years) × weight (kg)] Cl cr = -------------------------------------------- 72 × serum creatinine (mg/dL) x 0.85 for female patients Gout Flares Prophylaxis of Gout Flares For prophylaxis of gout flares in patients with mild (estimated creatinine clearance [Cl cr ] 50 to 80 mL/min) to moderate (Cl cr 30 to 50 mL/min) renal function impairment, adjustment of the recommended dose is not required, but patients should be monitored closely for adverse effects of colchicine. Treatment of Gout Flares For treatment of gout flares in patients with mild (Cl cr 50 to 80 mL/min) to moderate (Cl cr 30 to 50mL/min) renal function impairment, adjustment of the recommended dose is not required, but patients should be monitored closely for adverse effects of colchicine. For patients with severe renal failure (Cl cr less than 30 mL/min), start with 0.3 mg/day; any increase in dose should be done with adequate monitoring of the patient for adverse effects of colchicine [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]. Dose reduction should be considered for the prophylaxis of gout flares in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7)] .
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine tablets in conjunction with P-gp or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (this includes all protease inhibitors except fosamprenavir). In these patients, life-threatening and fatal colchicine toxicity has been reported with colchicine taken in therapeutic doses. Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine tablets in conjunction with P-gp or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. ). In these patients, life-threatening and fatal colchicine toxicity has been reported with colchicine taken in therapeutic doses ( Error! Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine tablets in conjunction with P-gp or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors ( 5.3 ). In these patients, life-threatening and fatal colchicine toxicity has been reported with colchicine taken in therapeutic doses (7). In these patients, life-threatening and fatal colchicine toxicity has been reported with colchicine taken in therapeutic doses ( 7 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine capsules with drugs that inhibit both P­glycoprotein and CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Combining these dual inhibitors with colchicine in patients with renal or hepatic impairment has resulted in life-threatening or fatal colchicine toxicity. Patients with both renal and hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine capsules. Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine capsules in conjunction with drugs that inhibit both P-gp and CYP3A4 ( 4 ). Patients with both renal and hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine capsules ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine capsules with drugs that inhibit both P-glycoprotein and CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . • Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine capsules in conjunction with drugs that inhibit both P-gp and CYP3A4 ( 4 ). • Patients with both renal and hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine capsules ( 4 ). Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine tablets in conjunction with P-gp or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (5.3).
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Colchicine is a substrate of the efflux transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Of the cytochrome P450 enzymes tested, CYP3A4 was mainly involved in the metabolism of colchicine. If colchicine tablets are administered with drugs that inhibit P-gp, most of which also inhibit CYP3A4, increased concentrations of colchicine are likely. Fatal drug interactions have been reported. Physicians should ensure that patients are suitable candidates for treatment with colchicine tablets and remain alert for signs and symptoms of toxicities related to increased colchicine exposure as a result of a drug interaction. Signs and symptoms of colchicine tablets toxicity should be evaluated promptly and, if toxicity is suspected, colchicine tablets should be discontinued immediately. Table 4 provides recommendations as a result of other potentially significant drug interactions. Table 1 provides recommendations for strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors and P-gp inhibitors. Table 4. Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Concomitant Drug Class or Food Noted or Anticipated Outcome Clinical Comment HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors: atorvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin, simvastatin Pharmacokinetic and/or pharmacodynamic interaction: the addition of one drug to a stable long-term regimen of the other has resulted in myopathy and rhabdomyolysis (including a fatality) Weigh the potential benefits and risks and carefully monitor patients for any signs or symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness, particularly during initial therapy; monitoring CPK (creatine phosphokinase) will not necessarily prevent the occurrence of severe myopathy. Other Lipid-Lowering Drugs: fibrates, gemfibrozil Digitalis Glycosides: digoxin P-gp substrate; rhabdomyolysis has been reported Coadministration of P-gp and/or CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., clarithromycin or cyclosporine) have been demonstrated to alter the concentration of colchicine. The potential for drug-drug interactions must be considered prior to and during therapy. See FPI for a complete list of reported and potential interactions ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. , Error! ). Drug Interactions In Vitro Drug Interactions In vitro studies in human liver microsomes have shown that colchicine is not an inhibitor or inducer of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1 or CYP3A4 activity. In Vivo Drug Interactions The effects of coadministration of other drugs with colchicine tablets on C max , AUC and C min are summarized in Table 6 (effect of other drugs on colchicine) and Table 7 (effect of colchicine on other drugs). For information regarding clinical recommendations, see Table 1 in Dose Modification for Coadministration of Interacting Drugs [see Error! ] . Table 6. Drug Interactions: Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Colchicine Tablets in the Presence of the Coadministered Drug Coadministered Drug Dose of Coadministered Drug (mg) Dose of Colchicine Tablets (mg) N % Change in Colchicine Concentrations from Baseline (Range: Min – Max) C max AUC 0-t Cyclosporine 100 mg single dose 0.6 mg single dose 23 270.0 (62.0 to 606.9) 259.0 (75.8 to 511.9) Clarithromycin 250 mg twice daily, 7 days 0.6 mg single dose 23 227.2 (65.7 to 591.1) 281.5 (88.7 to 851.6) Ketoconazole 200 mg twice daily, 5 days 0.6 mg single dose 24 101.7 (19.6 to 219.0) 212.2 (76.7 to 419.6) Ritonavir 100 mg twice daily, 5 days 0.6 mg single dose 18 184.4 (79.2 to 447.4) 296.0 (53.8 to 924.4) Verapamil 240 mg daily, 5 days 0.6 mg single dose 24 40.1 (-47.1 to 149.5) 103.3 (-9.8 to 217.2) Diltiazem 240 mg daily, 7 days 0.6 mg single dose 20 44.2 (-46.0 to 318.3) 93.4 (-30.2 to 338.6) Azithromycin 500 mg x 1 day, then 250 mg x 4 days 0.6 mg single dose 21 21.6 (-41.7 to 222.0) 57.1 (-24.3 to 241.1) Grapefruit juice 240 mL twice daily, 4 days 0.6 mg single dose 21 -2.55 (-53.4 to 55.0) -2.36 (-46.4 to 62.2) Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives: In healthy female volunteers given ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone (Ortho-Novum ® 1/35) coadministered with colchicine tablets (0.6 mg twice daily × 14 days), hormone concentrations are not affected. In healthy volunteers given theophylline coadministered with colchicine tablets (0.6 mg twice daily × 14 days), theophylline concentrations were not affected. Table 7. Drug Interactions: Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Coadministration of Drug in the Presence of Colchicine Tablets Coadministered Drug Dose of Coadministered Drug (mg) Dose of Colchicine Tablets (mg) N % Change in Coadministered Drug Concentrations from Baseline (Range: Min – Max) C max AUC 0-t Theophylline 300 mg (elixir) single dose 0.6 mg twice daily x 14 days 27 1.6 (-30.4 to 23.1) 1.6 (-28.5 to 27.1) Ethinyl Estradiol (Ortho-Novum ® 1/35) 21-day cycle (active treatment) + 7-day placebo 0.6 mg twice daily x 14 days 27 Conducted in healthy adult females -6.7 (-40.3 to 44.7) -3.0 AUC Ʈ (-25.3 to 24.9) Norethindrone (Ortho-Novum ® 1/35) 0.94 (-37.3 to 59.4) -1.6 (-32.0 to 33.7) If colchicine tablets is administered with drugs that inhibit P-gp, most of which also inhibit CYP3A4, increased concentrations of colchicine are likely. Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Concomitant Drug Class or Food Noted or Anticipated Outcome Clinical Comment HMG-Co A Reductase Inhibitors: atorvastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin, simvastatin Pharmacokinetic and/or pharmacodynamic interaction: the addition of one drug to a stable long-term regimen of the other has resulted in myopathy and rhabdomyolysis (including a fatality) Weigh the potential benefits and risks and carefully monitor patients for any signs or symptoms of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness, particularly during initial therapy; monitoring CPK (creatine phosphokinase) will not necessarily prevent the occurrence of severe myopathy. See FPI for a complete list of reported and potential interactions ( 2.4 , 5.3 , 7 ). For information regarding clinical recommendations, see Table 1 in Dose Modification for Coadministration of Interacting Drugs [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Colchicine is a substrate of the efflux transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp), and the CYP3A4 metabolizing enzyme. Fatal drug interactions have been reported when colchicine is administered with clarithromycin, a dual inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein. Toxicities have also been reported when colchicine is administered with inhibitors of CYP3A4 that may not be potent inhibitors of P-gp (e.g., grapefruit juice, erythromycin, verapamil), or inhibitors of P-gp that may not be potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., cyclosporine). Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine capsules with drugs that inhibit both P­glycoprotein and CYP3A4 [see Contraindications (4) ] . Combining these dual inhibitors with colchicine capsules in patients with renal and hepatic impairment has resulted in life-threatening or fatal colchicine toxicity. Physicians should ensure that patients are suitable candidates for treatment with colchicine capsules and remain alert for signs and symptoms of toxic reactions associated with increased colchicine exposure due to drug interactions. Signs and symptoms of colchicine toxicity should be evaluated promptly and, if toxicity is suspected, colchicine capsules should be discontinued immediately. Co-administration of P-gp or CYP3A4 inhibitors or inhibitors of both P-gp and CYP3A4 (e.g., clarithromycin or cyclosporine) have been reported to lead to colchicine toxicity. Concomitant use of colchicine capsules and inhibitors of CYP3A4 or P-gp should be avoided if possible. If co-administration of colchicine capsules and an inhibitor of CYP3A4 or P-gp is necessary, the dose of colchicine capsules should be reduced and the patient should be monitored carefully for colchicine toxicity ( 7 , 12.3 ). 7.1 CYP3A4 The concomitant use of colchicine capsules and CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., clarithromycin, ketoconazole, grapefruit juice, erythromycin, verapamil, etc.) should be avoided due to the potential for serious and life-threatening toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12) ] . If co-administration of colchicine capsules and a CYP3A4 inhibitor is necessary, the dose of colchicine capsules should be adjusted by either reducing the daily dose or reducing the dose frequency, and the patient should be monitored carefully for colchicine toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12) ] . 7.2 P-glycoprotein The concomitant use of colchicine capsules and inhibitors of P-glycoprotein (e.g. clarithromycin, ketoconazole, cyclosporine, etc.) should be avoided due to the potential for serious and life-threatening toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12) ] . If co-administration of colchicine capsules and a P-gp inhibitor is necessary, the dose of colchicine capsules should be adjusted by either reducing the daily dose or reducing the dose frequency, and the patient should be monitored carefully for colchicine toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12) ] . 7.3 HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors and Fibrates Some drugs such as HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors and fibrates may increase the risk of myopathy when combined with colchicine capsules. Complaints of muscle pain or weakness could be an indication to check serum creatinine kinase levels for signs of myopathy. 7.4 Drug-Drug Interaction Studies Four pharmacokinetic studies evaluated the effects of co-administration of voriconazole (200 mg BID), fluconazole (200 mg QD), cimetidine (800 mg BID), and propafenone (225 mg BID) on systemic levels of colchicine. Colchicine can be administered with these drugs at the tested doses without a need for dose adjustment. However, these results should not be extrapolated to other co-administered drugs [see Drug-Drug Interactions (7.1 , 7.2 ) and Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] . If colchicine tablet is administered with drugs that inhibit P-gp, most of which also inhibit CYP3A4, increased concentrations of colchicine are likely. Patients with renal or hepatic impairment should not be given colchicine capsules with drugs that inhibit both P-glycoprotein and CYP3A4 [see Contraindications (4) ] . • Co-administration of P-gp or CYP3A4 inhibitors or inhibitors of both P-gp and CYP3A4 (e.g., clarithromycin or cyclosporine) have been reported to lead to colchicine toxicity. • Concomitant use of colchicine capsules and inhibitors of CYP3A4 or P-gp should be avoided if possible. However, these results should not be extrapolated to other co-administered drugs [see Drug-Drug Interactions ( 7.1 , 7.2 )and Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] . Physicians should ensure that patients are suitable candidates for treatment with colchicine and remain alert for signs and symptoms of toxicities related to increased colchicine exposure as a result of a drug interaction. Signs and symptoms of colchicine toxicity should be evaluated promptly and, if toxicity is suspected, colchicine tablets should be discontinued immediately. See FPI for a complete list of reported and potential interactions ( 2.4, 5.3 , 7). However, these results should not be extrapolated to other co-administered drugs [see Drug-Drug Interactions ( 7.1 , 7.2 ) and Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] . 5.3 Drug Interactions Colchicine is a P-gp and CYP3A4 substrate. Life-threatening and fatal drug interactions have been reported in patients treated with colchicine given with P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. If treatment with a P-gp or strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is required in patients with normal renal and hepatic function, the patient's dose of colchicine may need to be reduced or interrupted [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Use of colchicine tablets in conjunction with P-gp or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (this includes all protease inhibitors except fosamprenavir) is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment [see Contraindications (4)]. See FPI for a complete list of reported and potential interactions (2.4, 5.3, 7).

=== PHENOL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose EXTERNAL ANALGESIC Purpose Oral Anesthetic/Analgesic Purposes Pain reliever/antiseptic PURPOSE: Berberis Vulgaris – Poor Digestion, Carbolicum Acidum – Alternating Occasional Diarrhea and Constipation, Carduus Marianus – Low Energy, Chelidonium Majus – Poor Digestion, Chromium Picolinate - Alternating Occasional Diarrhea and Constipation, Cichorium Intybus, Flos – Low Energy, Cobalt Gluconate – Liver Discomfort, Copper Gluconate – Liver Discomfort, Gallbladder (Suis) – Poor Digestion, Hepar Suis – Poor Digestion, Magnesium Gluconate Dihydricum – Alternating Occasional Diarrhea and Constipation, Natrum Sulphuricum – Low Energy, Nux Vomica – Poor Digestion, Pancreas Suis – Poor Digestion, Picrorhiza Kurroa- Alternating Occasional Diarrhea and Constipation, Ptelea Trifoliata – Poor Digestion, Raphanus Sativus – Low Energy, Sarcolacticum Acidum – Low Energy, Schisandra Chinensis – Poor Digestion, Sulphur Iodatum - Alternating Occasional Diarrhea and Constipation, Taraxacum Officinale – Low Energy, Vanadium Metallicum – Poor Digestion, Verbena Officinalis, Flos – Low Energy, Viscum Album – Low Energy Purpose Topical Analgesic Purpose Oral demulcent Oral Anesthetic/Analgesic PURPOSE: Agaricus Muscarius - Wheezing, Allium Cepa - Cough, Ammonium Carbonicum – Burning Throat, Antimonium Tartaricum - Headache, Arsenicum Iodatum - Fatigue, Aspergillus Niger - Fatigue, Blatta Orientalis - Cough, Carbolicum Acidum - Wheezing, Cinchona Officinalis – Burning Throat, Echinacea (Angustifolia) - Headache, Ferrum Metallicum – Joint Pain, Kali Carbonicum – Joint Pain, Mephitis Mephitica - Cough, Natrum Sulphuricum - Wheezing, Phytolacca Decandra – Burning Throat, Sanguinaria Canadensis - Headache, Secale Cornutum - Fatigue, Sulphuricum Acidum – Joint Pain, Thuja Occidentalis - Cough Sore Throat Relief
Indications: Uses for temporary relief of pain and itching associated with minor burns minor cuts insect bites minor skin irritations scrapes sunburn eczema poison ivy Uses temporarily relieves sore throat pain, sore mouth, pain associated with canker sores, minor mouth irritation Uses for temporary relief of pain and itching associated with cold sores and fever blisters first aid to help prevent infection Use for the temporary relief of pain USES: • For the temporary relief of symptoms including: • liver discomfort • poor digestion • low energy • alternating occasional diarrhea and constipation These statements are based upon homeopathic practices. They have not been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration. ACTIVE INGREDIENTS (HPUS*) PURPOSE**: ABROTANUM 6C (intestines), ACONITUM NAPELLUS 1M (shock), AETHUSA CYNAPIUM 200C (dairy intolerance), AGNUS CASTUS 200C (impotence/absentmindedness), AILANTHUS GLANDULOSUS 30C (fever/glands), AMBRA GRISEA 30C (confusion/memory), AMBROSIA ARTEMISIAEFOLIA 30C (itchy eyelids), AMMONIUM CARBONICUM 30C (breathing), ANTIMONIUM CRUDUM 6C, 200C (rash), APIS MELLIFICA 1M (swellings), ARNICA MONTANA 3C, 1M (injury), ARSENICUM ALBUM 3C (gastrointestinal), AURUM ARSENICOSUM 200C (infection), AURUM METALLICUM 200C (depression/fatigue), BAPTISIA TINCTORIA 200C (fever/soreness), BARYTA CARBONICA 30C (memory loss), BELLADONNA 3C (pain/fever), BORRELIA BURGDORFERI 200C (tick), BOTHROPS LANCEOLATUS 30C (heart), BOVISTA 30C (suffocation), BROMIUM 30C (radiation), CADMIUM SULPHURICUM 30C (vomiting), CALADIUM SEGUINUM 30C (insect bites), CALCAREA CARBONICA 1M (immunity), CAMPHORA 200C (collapse/antidoting), CARBOLICUM ACIDUM 6C, 30C (infection/swelling), CARDUUS MARIANUS 30C (liver), CEANOTHUS AMERICANUS 30C (radiation/spleen), CHELIDONIUM MAJUS 6C (gastrointestinal), CHININUM SULPHURICUM 3X (fever) CINA 3X, 200C (parasites), CINCHONA (CHINA) OFFICINALIS 3C (fluid loss), CICUTA VIROSA 30C (head injury), COBALTUM METALLICUM 30C (radiation), COLCHICUM AUTUMNALE 30C (dysentery), CONIUM MACULATUM 3C (weakness/growths), CROTALUS HORRIDUS 6C, 30C (hemorrhage), CROTON TIGLIUM 30C (skin eruptions/diarrhea), CUPRUM METALLICUM 6C, 200C (spasms/cramps), DULCAMARA 30C (throat/ringworm), ELAPS CORALLINUS 30C (bleeding), EUPATORIUM PERFOLIATUM 200C (fever), GALPHIMIA GLAUCA 30C (hay fever), GRAPHITES 200C (skin eruptions), GUNPOWDER 30C (infection), HAMAMELIS VIRGINIANA 200C (circulation), HEKLA LAVA 30C (abscessed tooth), HELLEBORUS NIGER 30C (concentration), HEPAR SULPHURIS CALCAREUM 6C (infection), HYDROCYANICUM ACIDUM 30C (rigidity), HYDROFLUORICUM ACIDUM 30C (PTSD, abscess, sleep), HYOSCYAMUS NIGER 6C, 30C (delirium), HYPERICUM PERFORATUM 1M (extreme pain/nerve pain), KALI BROMATUM 30C (staggering), KALI CARBONICUM 200C (respiration), KALI IODATUM 6C (wheezy), LATHYRUS SATIVUS 30C (weakness), LAUROCERASUS 30C (breathlessness/collapse), LEDUM PALUSTRE 1M (puncture injury), LOBELIA INFLATA 30C (breathing difficulty), MERCURIUS CYANATUS 200C (throat), MERCURIUS SOLUBILIS 6C, 200C (throat), MEZEREUM 200C (bones), MOSCHUS 30C (fainting/vertigo), MURIATICUM ACIDUM 30C (weakness/exhaustion), NAJA TRIPUDIANS 30C (heart), NATRUM CARBONICUM 30C (weakness/heat stroke), NITRICUM ACIDUM 30C (anger), NUX MOSCHATA 30C (faintness), PYROGENIUM 200C (infections), PHOSPHORICUM ACIDUM 6C, 200C (exhaustion), PICRICUM ACIDUM 200C (headache/exhaustion), PLUMBUM METALLICUM 30C (weakness/constipation), RHUS TOX 1M (joints), RUTA GRAVEOLENS 6C (tendons), SAMBUCUS NIGRA 30C (breathing/cough), SANGUINARIA CANADENSIS 200C (sinus), SARRACENIA PURPUREA 30C (pustules), SECALE CORNUTUM 6C (internal bleeding), SEPIA 6C (menstrual/headache), STRAMONIUM 30C, 200C (rage), SULPHURICUM ACIDUM 30C (dyspnea), TABACUM 30C, 200C (nausea), TARENTULA HISPANA 30C (restlessness), TEREBINTHINA 6C (urinary problems), TEUCRIUM MARUM 200C (gastrointestinal/nasal), VERATRUM ALBUM 200C (diarrhea/weakness), VERATRUM VIRIDE 30C (infection/pustules), VIPERA BERUS 30C (severe nose bleed). Uses: For the temporary relief of minor pain, itching, or pain and itching associated with minor burns, sunburn, minor cuts, scrapes, insect bites, minor skin irritations. Uses for the temporarily relief of occasional minor irritation, pain, sore mouth, and sore throat minor discomfort and protection of irritated area in sore mouth and sore throat USES: • For the temporary relief of symptoms including: • wheezing • cough • burning throat • headache • fatigue • joint pain These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. Uses For temporary relief of occasional minor throat irritation, pain, sore mouth, sore throat.
Dosage: Directions For adults and children 2 years and older: Apply to affected area not more than 3-4 times daily. For children under 2 years of age: Consult a physician. Directions adults and children 2 years of age and older: apply to affected area (one spray) allow to remain in place for at least 15 seconds, then spit out use every 2 hours or as directed by a dentist or doctor children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product children under 2 years of age: consult a dentist or doctor Directions adults and children 2 years of age and over: clean the affected area apply a small amount of this product to the cold sore or fever blister 1 to 3 times daily do not bandage children under 2 years of age: ask a doctor Directions adults and children 2 years of age and older: apply to the affected area no more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 2 years of age; : ask a doctor DIRECTIONS: 1-10 drops under the tongue, 3 times a day or as directed by a health professional. Consult a physician for use in children under 12 years of age. DIRECTIONS: Adults and children above 12 years: dissolve 3-5 pellets under the tongue or dilute in approximately 1 oz of purified water and sip as directed by a health care professional. Directions: Adults and children 2 years of age and older: Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily. Children under 2 years of age: consult a doctor. Directions adults and children 2 years of age and older: apply to affected area (one spray) allow to remain in place for at least 15 seconds, then spit out use every 2 hours as directed by a doctor or dentist children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product children under 6 years of age: consult a doctor or dentist Directions Adults and children 3 years of age and older. Apply to the affected area (one spray) Allow to remain in place for at least 15 seconds, then spit out Use every 2 hours or as directed by a doctor or dentist. Children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product. Children under 3 years of age , consult a doctor or dentist Before using the first time, remove the protective neck band and dust cap from the tip. To spray hold bottle straight up and press the nozzle with index finger without tilting head. Fully depress pump all the way down with a firm, even stroke. Wipe nozzle dry.
Warnings: Warnings For external use only. Avoid contact with eyes Discontinue use and consult a physician if symptoms worsen persist for more than 7 days clear up the recur within a few days Do not apply over large areas of the body bandage Keep out of reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. Warnings Sore throat warning: Severe or persistent sore throat or sore throat accompanied by high fever, headache, nausea, and vomiting may be serious. Consult a doctor promptly. Do not use more than 2 days. When using this product, do not exceed recommended dose. Stop use and ask a dentist or doctor if sore throat is severe, or last for more than 2 days sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days irritation, pain or redness persists or worsen fever, headache, rash, swelling, nausea or vomiting develops If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. If more than used for minor mouth or throat pain is accidentally swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings For external use only Do not use over large areas of the body with a bandage Ask a doctor before use if you have a deep or puncture wound animal bites serious burns When using this product do not use in or near the eyes. If contact occurs, rinse eyes thoroughly with water and obtain medical attention. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Do not induce vomiting before contacting medical help or a Poison Control Center. WARNINGS: If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, contact a physician or Poison Control Center right away. Tamper Evident: Sealed for your protection. Do not use if seal is broken or missing. WARNINGS: Consult a physician for use in children under 12 years of age. IF PREGNANT OR BREASTFEEDING, ask a health care professional before use. In case of overdose (or accidental ingestion) get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN. Warnings: For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin. When using this product Avoid contact with the eyes. Do not bandage tightly. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash or irritation develops and lasts. condition worsens, or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again with in a few days. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use Stop use and ask a dentist or doctor if sore throat is severe, or lasts for more than 2 days sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days irritation, pain or redness persists or worsens fever, headache, rash, swelling, nausea or vomiting develops If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Severe or persistent sore throat or sore throat accompanied by high fever, Headache, nausea, and vomiting may be serious. Consult a physician promptly. Do not use more than two days or administer to children under 3 years of age unless directed by a physician. Warnings Sore throat waring: Severe and persistent sore throat or sore throat accompanied by high fever, headache, nausea, and vomiting may be serious. Consult doctor promptly. Do not use more than 2 days or administer to children under 3 years of age unless directed by a doctor. Whan using this product do not exceed recommended dose. Use only as directed. Use of this container by more than one person may spread infection.

=== VALACYCLOVIR HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Valacyclovir hydrochloride is a deoxynucleoside analogue DNA polymerase inhibitor indicated for: Adult Patients ( 1.1 ) Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Genital Herpes Treatment in immunocompetent patients (initial or recurrent episode) Suppression in immunocompetent or HIV-1-infected patients Reduction of transmission Herpes Zoster Pediatric Patients (1.2) Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Chickenpox Limitations of Use (1.3) The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets have not been established in immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV-1-infected patients. 1.1 Adult Patients Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for treatment of cold sores (herpes labialis). The efficacy of valacyclovir tablets initiated after the development of clinical signs of a cold sore (e.g., papule, vesicle, or ulcer) has not been established. Genital Herpes Initial Episode: Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for treatment of the initial episode of genital herpes in immunocompetent adults. The efficacy of treatment with valacyclovir tablets when initiated more than 72 hours after the onset of signs and symptoms has not been established. Recurrent Episodes: Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for treatment of recurrent episodes of genital herpes in immunocompetent adults. The efficacy of treatment with valacyclovir tablets when initiated more than 24 hours after the onset of signs and symptoms has not been established. Suppressive Therapy: Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for chronic suppressive therapy of recurrent episodes of genital herpes in immunocompetent and in HIV-1-infected adults. The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets for the suppression of genital herpes beyond 1 year in immunocompetent patients and beyond 6 months in HIV-1-infected patients have not been established. Reduction of Transmission: Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for the reduction of transmission of genital herpes in immunocompetent adults. The efficacy of valacyclovir tablets for the reduction of transmission of genital herpes beyond 8 months in discordant couples has not been established. The efficacy of valacyclovir tablets for the reduction of transmission of genital herpes in individuals with multiple partners and non-heterosexual couples has not been established. Safer sex practices should be used with suppressive therapy (see current Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [CDC] Sexually Transmitted Diseases Treatment Guidelines ). Herpes Zoster Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for the treatment of herpes zoster (shingles) in immunocompetent adults. The efficacy of valacyclovir tablets when initiated more than 72 hours after the onset of rash and the efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of disseminated herpes zoster have not been established. 1.2 Pediatric Patients Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for the treatment of cold sores (herpes labialis) in pediatric patients aged greater than or equal to 12 years. Chickenpox Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for the treatment of chickenpox in immunocompetent pediatric patients aged 2 to less than 18 years. Based on efficacy data from clinical trials with oral acyclovir, treatment with valacyclovir tablets should be initiated within 24 hours after the onset of rash [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . 1.3 Limitations of Use The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets have not been established in: Immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV-1-infected patients with a CD4+ cell count greater than or equal to 100 cells/mm 3 . Patients aged less than 12 years with cold sores (herpes labialis). Patients aged less than 2 years or greater than or equal to 18 years with chickenpox. Patients aged less than 18 years with genital herpes. Patients aged less than 18 years with herpes zoster. Neonates and infants as suppressive therapy following neonatal herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Valacyclovir hydrochloride is a deoxynucleoside analogue DNA polymerase inhibitor indicated for: Adult Patients (1.1) Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Genital Herpes Treatment in immunocompetent patients (initial or recurrent episode) Suppression in immunocompetent or HIV-1-infected patients Reduction of transmission Herpes Zoster Pediatric Patients (1.2) Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Chickenpox Limitations of Use (1.3) The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets have not been established in immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV-1-infected patients. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Valacyclovir tablets are a deoxynucleoside analogue DNA polymerase inhibitor indicated for: Adult Patients ( 1.1 ) Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Genital Herpes Treatment in immunocompetent patients (initial or recurrent episode) Suppression in immunocompetent or HIV-1-infected patients Reduction of transmission Herpes Zoster Pediatric Patients ( 1.2 ) Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Chickenpox Limitations of Use ( 1.3 ) The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets have not been established in immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV-1-infected patients. Safer sex practices should be used with suppressive therapy (see current Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [CDC] Sexually Transmitted Diseases Treatment Guidelines). Based on efficacy data from clinical trials with oral acyclovir, treatment with valacyclovir tablets should be initiated within 24 hours after the onset of rash [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Valacyclovir tablet is a deoxynucleoside analogue DNA polymerase inhibitor indicated for: Adult Patients ( 1.1 ) • Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) • Genital Herpes • Treatment in immunocompetent patients (initial or recurrent episode) • Suppression in immunocompetent or HIV-1-infected patients • Reduction of transmission • Herpes Zoster Pediatric Patients ( 1.2 ) • Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) • Chickenpox Limitations of Use ( 1.3 ) The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets have not been established in immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV-1-infected patients. Based on efficacy data from clinical trials with oral acyclovir, treatment with valacyclovir tablets should be initiated within 24 hours after the onset of rash [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )]. 1.3 Limitations of Use The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets have not been established in: • Immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV-1−infected patients with a CD4+ cell count greater than or equal to 100 cells/mm 3 . • Patients aged less than 12 years with cold sores (herpes labialis). • Patients aged less than 2 years or greater than or equal to 18 years with chickenpox. • Patients aged less than 18 years with genital herpes. • Patients aged less than 18 years with herpes zoster. • Neonates and infants as suppressive therapy following neonatal herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Valacyclovir tablets are a deoxynucleoside analogue DNA polymerase inhibitor indicated for: Adult Patients ( 1.1 ) Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Genital Herpes Treatment in immunocompetent patients (initial or recurrent episode) Suppression in immunocompetent or HIV-1–infected patients Reduction of transmission Herpes Zoster Pediatric Patients ( 1.2 ) Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Chickenpox Limitations of Use ( 1.3 ) The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets have not been established in immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV-1–infected patients. Genital Herpes Initial Episode Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for treatment of the initial episode of genital herpes in immunocompetent adults. Recurrent Episodes Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for treatment of recurrent episodes of genital herpes in immunocompetent adults. Suppressive Therapy Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for chronic suppressive therapy of recurrent episodes of genital herpes in immunocompetent and in HIV-1–infected adults. The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets for the suppression of genital herpes beyond 1 year in immunocompetent patients and beyond 6 months in HIV-1–infected patients have not been established. Reduction of Transmission Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for the reduction of transmission of genital herpes in immunocompetent adults. Chickenpox Valacyclovir is indicated for the treatment of chickenpox in immunocompetent pediatric patients aged 2 to less than 18 years. Based on efficacy data from clinical trials with oral acyclovir, treatment with valacyclovir should be initiated within 24 hours after the onset of rash [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ]. 1.3 Limitations of Use The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir have not been established in: Immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV-1–infected patients with a CD4+ cell count greater than or equal to 100 cells/mm 3 . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Valacyclovir hydrochloride is a deoxynucleoside analogue DNA polymerase inhibitor indicated for: Adult Patients (1.1) Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Genital Herpes Treatment in immunocompetent patients (initial or recurrent episode) Suppression in immunocompetent or HIV-infected patients Reduction of transmission Herpes Zoster Pediatric Patients (1.2) Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Chickenpox Limitations of Use (1.3) The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets have not been established in immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV-infected patients. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Valacyclovir tablets are a deoxynucleoside analogue DNA polymerase inhibitor indicated for: Adult Patients ( 1.1 ) Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Genital Herpes Treatment in immunocompetent patients (initial or recurrent episode) Suppression in immunocompetent or HIV-1-infected patients Reduction of transmission Herpes Zoster Pediatric Patients ( 1.2 ) Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Chickenpox Limitations of Use ( 1.3 ) The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets have not been established in immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV‑1-infected patients. Suppressive Therapy: Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for chronic suppressive therapy of recurrent episodes of genital herpes in immunocompetent and in HIV‑1-infected adults. The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets, USP for the suppression of genital herpes beyond 1 year in immunocompetent patients and beyond 6 months in HIV‑1-infected patients have not been established. The efficacy of valacyclovir tablets for the reduction of transmission of genital herpes in individuals with multiple partners and non‑heterosexual couples has not been established. The efficacy of valacyclovir tablets, USP when initiated more than 72 hours after the onset of rash and the efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets, USP for treatment of disseminated herpes zoster have not been established. 1.3 Limitations of Use The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets have not been established in: Immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV‑1-infected patients with a CD4+ cell count greater than or equal to 100 cells/mm 3 . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Valacyclovir hydrochloride is a nucleoside analogue DNA polymerase inhibitor indicated for: Adult Patients (1.1) • Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) • Genital Herpes • Treatment in immunocompetent patients (initial or recurrent episode) • Suppression in immunocompetent or HIV-infected patients • Reduction of transmission • Herpes Zoster Pediatric Patients (1.2) • Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) • Chickenpox Limitations of Use (1.3) • The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets, USP have not been established in immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV-infected patients. 1.1 Adult Patients Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis): Valacyclovir tablets, USP are indicated for treatment of cold sores (herpes labialis). The efficacy of valacyclovir tablets, USP initiated after the development of clinical signs of a cold sore (e.g., papule, vesicle, or ulcer) has not been established. Genital Herpes: Initial Episode: Valacyclovir tablets, USP are indicated for treatment of the initial episode of genital herpes in immunocompetent adults. The efficacy of treatment with valacyclovir tablets, USP when initiated more than 72 hours after the onset of signs and symptoms has not been established. Recurrent Episodes: Valacyclovir tablets, USP are indicated for treatment of recurrent episodes of genital herpes in immunocompetent adults. The efficacy of treatment with valacyclovir tablets, USP when initiated more than 24 hours after the onset of signs and symptoms has not been established. Suppressive Therapy: Valacyclovir tablets, USP are indicated for chronic suppressive therapy of recurrent episodes of genital herpes in immunocompetent and in HIV-infected adults. The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets, USP for the suppression of genital herpes beyond 1 year in immunocompetent patients and beyond 6 months in HIV-infected patients have not been established. Reduction of Transmission: Valacyclovir tablets, USP are indicated for the reduction of transmission of genital herpes in immunocompetent adults. The efficacy of valacyclovir tablets, USP for the reduction of transmission of genital herpes beyond 8 months in discordant couples has not been established. The efficacy of valacyclovir tablets, USP for the reduction of transmission of genital herpes in individuals with multiple partners and non-heterosexual couples has not been established. Herpes Zoster: Valacyclovir tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of herpes zoster (shingles) in immunocompetent adults. 1.2 Pediatric Patients Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis): Valacyclovir tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of cold sores (herpes labialis) in pediatric patients ≥12 years of age. Chickenpox: Valacyclovir tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of chickenpox in immunocompetent pediatric patients 2 to <18 years of age. Based on efficacy data from clinical studies with oral acyclovir, treatment with valacyclovir tablets, USP should be initiated within 24 hours after the onset of rash [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . 1.3 Limitations of Use The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets, USP have not been established in: • Immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV-infected patients with a CD4+ cell count ≥100 cells/mm 3 . • Patients <12 years of age with cold sores (herpes labialis). • Patients <2 years of age or ≥18 years of age with chickenpox. • Patients <18 years of age with genital herpes. • Patients <18 years of age with herpes zoster. Based on efficacy data from clinical trials with oral acyclovir, treatment with valacyclovir tablets should be initiated within 24 hours after the onset of rash [see Clinical Studies (14.4)]. 1.3 Limitations of Use The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets have not been established in: Immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV-1-infected patients with a CD4+ cell count greater than or equal to 100 cells/mm3.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Valacyclovir tablets may be given without regard to meals. Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) may be prepared extemporaneously from 500 mg valacyclovir tablets for use in pediatric patients for whom a solid dosage form is not appropriate [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . Adult Dosage (2.1) Cold Sores 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Genital Herpes Initial episode 1 gram twice daily for 10 days Recurrent episodes 500 mg twice daily for 3 days Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients Alternate dose in patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year HIV-1-infected patients 1 gram once daily 500 mg once daily 500 mg twice daily Reduction of transmission 500 mg once daily Herpes Zoster 1 gram 3 times daily for 7 days Pediatric Dosage (2.2) Cold Sores (aged greater than or equal to 12 years) 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Chickenpox (aged 2 to less than 18 years) 20 mg/kg 3 times daily for 5 days; not to exceed 1 gram 3 times daily Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) can be prepared from the 500 mg valacyclovir tablets. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Adult Dosing Recommendations Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of cold sores is 2 grams twice daily for 1 day taken 12 hours apart. Therapy should be initiated at the earliest symptom of a cold sore (e.g., tingling, itching, or burning). Genital Herpes Initial Episode: The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of initial genital herpes is 1 gram twice daily for 10 days. Therapy was most effective when administered within 48 hours of the onset of signs and symptoms. Recurrent Episodes: The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of recurrent genital herpes is 500 mg twice daily for 3 days. Initiate treatment at the first sign or symptom of an episode. Suppressive Therapy: The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for chronic suppressive therapy of recurrent genital herpes is 1 gram once daily in patients with normal immune function. In patients with a history of 9 or fewer recurrences per year, an alternative dose is 500 mg once daily. In HIV-1-infected patients with a CD4+ cell count greater than or equal to 100 cells/mm 3 , the recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for chronic suppressive therapy of recurrent genital herpes is 500 mg twice daily. Reduction of Transmission: The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for reduction of transmission of genital herpes in patients with a history of 9 or fewer recurrences per year is 500 mg once daily for the source partner. Herpes Zoster The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of herpes zoster is 1 gram 3 times daily for 7 days. Therapy should be initiated at the earliest sign or symptom of herpes zoster and is most effective when started within 48 hours of the onset of rash. 2.2 Pediatric Dosing Recommendations Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for the treatment of cold sores in pediatric patients aged greater than or equal to 12 years is 2 grams twice daily for 1 day taken 12 hours apart. Chickenpox The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of chickenpox in immunocompetent pediatric patients aged 2 to less than 18 years is 20 mg/kg administered 3 times daily for 5 days. The total dose should not exceed 1 gram 3 times daily. Therapy should be initiated at the earliest sign or symptom [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . 2.3 Extemporaneous Preparation of Oral Suspension Ingredients and Preparation per USP-NF Valacyclovir tablets 500 mg, cherry flavor, and Suspension Structured Vehicle USP-NF (SSV). Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) should be prepared in lots of 100 mL. Instructions for Preparing Suspension at Time of Dispensing Prepare SSV according to the USP-NF. Using a pestle and mortar, grind the required number of valacyclovir 500 mg tablets until a fine powder is produced (5 valacyclovir tablets for 25 mg/mL suspension; 10 valacyclovir tablets for 50 mg/mL suspension). Gradually add approximately 5 mL aliquots of SSV to the mortar and triturate the powder until a paste has been produced. Ensure that the powder has been adequately wetted. Continue to add approximately 5 mL aliquots of SSV to the mortar, mixing thoroughly between additions, until a concentrated suspension is produced, to a minimum total quantity of 20 mL SSV and a maximum total quantity of 40 mL SSV for both the 25 mg/mL and 50 mg/mL suspensions. Transfer the mixture to a suitable 100 mL measuring flask. Transfer the cherry flavor* to the mortar and dissolve in approximately 5 mL of SSV. Once dissolved, add to the measuring flask. Rinse the mortar at least 3 times with approximately 5 mL aliquots of SSV, transferring the rinsing to the measuring flask between additions. Make the suspension to volume (100 mL) with SSV and shake thoroughly to mix. Transfer the suspension to an amber glass medicine bottle with a child-resistant closure. The prepared suspension should be labeled with the following information “Shake well before using. Store suspension between 2° to 8°C (36° to 46°F) in a refrigerator. Discard after 28 days.” *The amount of cherry flavor added is as instructed by the suppliers of the cherry flavor. 2.4 Patients with Renal Impairment Dosage recommendations for adult patients with reduced renal function are provided in Table 1 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5 , 8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Data are not available for the use of valacyclovir tablets in pediatric patients with a creatinine clearance less than 50 mL/min/1.73 m 2 . Table 1. Valacyclovir Tablets Dosage Recommendations for Adults with Renal Impairment Indications Normal Dosage Regimen (Creatinine Clearance ≥50 mL/min) Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) 30 to 49 10 to 29 <10 Cold sores (Herpes Labialis) Do not exceed 1 day of treatment. Two 2 gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 1 gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 500 mg doses taken 12 hours apart 500 mg single dose Genital herpes: Initial episode 1 gram every 12 hours no reduction 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Recurrent episode 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients Alternate dose for immunocompetent patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year HIV-1-infected patients 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction no reduction no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 48 hours 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 48 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Herpes zoster 1 gram every 8 hours 1 gram every 12 hours 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Hemodialysis Patients requiring hemodialysis should receive the recommended dose of valacyclovir tablets after hemodialysis. During hemodialysis, the half-life of acyclovir after administration of valacyclovir tablets is approximately 4 hours. About one-third of acyclovir in the body is removed by dialysis during a 4-hour hemodialysis session. Peritoneal Dialysis There is no information specific to administration of valacyclovir tablets in patients receiving peritoneal dialysis. The effect of chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) and continuous arteriovenous hemofiltration/dialysis (CAVHD) on acyclovir pharmacokinetics has been studied. The removal of acyclovir after CAPD and CAVHD is less pronounced than with hemodialysis, and the pharmacokinetic parameters closely resemble those observed in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) not receiving hemodialysis. Therefore, supplemental doses of valacyclovir tablets should not be required following CAPD or CAVHD. Adult Dosage ( 2.1 ) Cold Sores 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Genital Herpes Initial episode 1 gram twice daily for 10 days Recurrent episodes 500 mg twice daily for 3 days Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients Alternate dose in patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year HIV‑1-infected patients 1 gram once daily 500 mg once daily 500 mg twice daily Reduction of transmission 500 mg once daily Herpes Zoster 1 gram 3 times daily for 7 days Pediatric Dosage ( 2.2 ) Cold Sores (aged greater than or equal to 12 years) 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Chickenpox (aged 2 to less than 18 years) 20 mg/kg 3 times daily for 5 days; not to exceed 1 gram 3 times daily Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) can be prepared from the 500 mg valacyclovir tablets. Two 2 gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 1 gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 500 mg doses taken 12 hours apart 500 mg single dose Genital herpes: Initial episode 1 gram every 12 hours no reduction 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Recurrent episode 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients 1 gram every 24 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Alternate dose for immunocompetent patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year 500 mg every 24 hours no reduction 500 mg every 48 hours 500 mg every 48 hours HIV-1-infected patients 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Herpes zoster 1 gram every 8 hours 1 gram every 12 hours 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Hemodialysis Patients requiring hemodialysis should receive the recommended dose of valacyclovir tablets after hemodialysis. Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) may be prepared extemporaneously from the 500-mg valacyclovir tablets for use in pediatric patients for whom a solid dosage form is not appropriate [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. Adult Dosage ( 2.1 ) Cold Sores 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Genital Herpes Initial episode 1 gram twice daily for 10 days Recurrent episodes 500 mg twice daily for 3 days Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients 1 gram once daily Alternate dose in patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year 500 mg once daily HIV-1-infected patients 500 mg twice daily Reduction of transmission 500 mg once daily Herpes Zoster 1 gram 3 times daily for 7 days Pediatric Dosage ( 2.2 ) Cold Sores (aged greater than or equal to 12 years) 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Chickenpox (aged 2 to less than 18 years) 20 mg/kg 3 times daily for 5 days; not to exceed 1 gram 3 times daily Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) can be prepared from the Valacyclovir Tablets, USP 500 mg. Therapy should be initiated at the earliest sign or symptom [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , Clinical Studies (14.4) ]. Using a pestle and mortar, grind the required number of valacyclovir tablets 500-mg until a fine powder is produced (5 valacyclovir tablets for 25-mg/mL suspension; 10 valacyclovir tablets for 50-mg/mL suspension). Gradually add approximately 5-mL aliquots of SSV to the mortar and triturate the powder until a paste has been produced. Continue to add approximately 5-mL aliquots of SSV to the mortar, mixing thoroughly between additions, until a concentrated suspension is produced, to a minimum total quantity of 20 mL SSV and a maximum total quantity of 40 mL SSV for both the 25-mg/mL and 50-mg/mL suspensions. Transfer the mixture to a suitable 100-mL measuring flask. Transfer the cherry flavor The amount of cherry flavor added is as instructed by the suppliers of the cherry flavor. to the mortar and dissolve in approximately 5 mL of SSV. Rinse the mortar at least 3 times with approximately 5-mL aliquots of SSV, transferring the rinsing to the measuring flask between additions. The prepared suspension should be labeled with the following information "Shake well before using. Discard after 28 days." 2.4 Patients with Renal Impairment Dosage recommendations for adult patients with reduced renal function are provided in Table 1 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5 , 8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Valacyclovir Tablets Dosage Recommendations for Adults with Renal Impairment Indications Normal Dosage Regimen (Creatinine Clearance ≥50 mL/min) Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) 30-49 10-29 <10 Cold sores (Herpes labialis ) Do not exceed 1 day of treatment. Two 2-gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 1-gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 500-mg doses taken 12 hours apart 500-mg single dose Genital herpes : Initial episode 1 gram every 12 hours no reduction 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes : Recurrent episode 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients 1 gram every 24 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Alternate dose for immunocompetent patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year 500 mg every 24 hours no reduction 500 mg every 48 hours 500 mg every 48 hours HIV-1-infected patients 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Herpes zoster 1 gram every 8 hours 1 gram every 12 hours 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Hemodialysis Patients requiring hemodialysis should receive the recommended dose of valacyclovir tablets after hemodialysis. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Valacyclovir tablets may be given without regard to meals. • Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) may be prepared extemporaneously from 500-mg valacyclovir tablets for use in pediatric patients for whom a solid dosage form is not appropriate [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )]. Adult Dosage ( 2.1 ) Cold Sores 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Genital Herpes Initial episode 1 gram twice daily for 10 days Recurrent episodes 500 mg twice daily for 3 days Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients 1 gram once daily Alternate dose in patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year 500 mg once daily HIV-1-infected patients 500 mg twice daily Reduction of transmission 500 mg once daily Herpes Zoster 1 gram 3 times daily for 7 days Pediatric Dosage ( 2.2 ) Cold Sores (aged greater than or equal to 12 years) 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Chickenpox (aged 2 to less than 18 years) 20 mg/kg 3 times daily for 5 days; not to exceed 1 gram 3 times daily Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) can be prepared from the 500 mg valacyclovir tablets. Therapy should be initiated at the earliest sign or symptom [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ), Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )]. Instructions for Preparing Suspension at Time of Dispensing • Prepare SSV according to the USP-NF. • Using a pestle and mortar, grind the required number of valacyclovir 500-mg tablets until a fine powder is produced (5 valacyclovir tablets for 25-mg/mL suspension; 10 valacyclovir tablets for 50-mg/mL suspension). • Gradually add approximately 5-mL aliquots of SSV to the mortar and triturate the powder until a paste has been produced. • Continue to add approximately 5-mL aliquots of SSV to the mortar, mixing thoroughly between additions, until a concentrated suspension is produced, to a minimum total quantity of 20 mL SSV and a maximum total quantity of 40 mL SSV for both the 25-mg/mL and 50-mg/mL suspensions. • Transfer the mixture to a suitable 100-mL measuring flask. • Transfer the cherry flavor* to the mortar and dissolve in approximately 5 mL of SSV. • Rinse the mortar at least 3 times with approximately 5-mL aliquots of SSV, transferring the rinsing to the measuring flask between additions. • Make the suspension to volume (100 mL) with SSV and shake thoroughly to mix. • Transfer the suspension to an amber glass medicine bottle with a child-resistant closure. • The prepared suspension should be labeled with the following information “Shake well before using. 2.4 Patients with Renal Impairment Dosage recommendations for adult patients with reduced renal function are provided in Table 1 [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 , 8.6 ), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Two 2-gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 1-gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 500-mg doses taken 12 hours apart 500-mg single dose Genital herpes: Initial episode 1 gram every 12 hours no reduction 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Recurrent episode 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients 1 gram every 24 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Alternate dose for immunocompetent patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year 500 mg every 24 hours no reduction 500 mg every 48 hours 500 mg every 48 hours HIV-1-infected patients 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Herpes zoster 1 gram every 8 hours 1 gram every 12 hours 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Hemodialysis Patients requiring hemodialysis should receive the recommended dose of valacyclovir tablets after hemodialysis. Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) may be prepared extemporaneously from 500-mg valacyclovir tablets for use in pediatric patients for whom a solid dosage form is not appropriate [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . Adult Dosage ( 2.1 ) Cold Sores 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Genital Herpes Initial episode 1 gram twice daily for 10 days Recurrent episodes 500 mg twice daily for 3 days Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients 1 gram once daily Alternate dose in patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year 500 mg once daily HIV-1–infected patients 500 mg twice daily Reduction of transmission 500 mg once daily Herpes Zoster 1 gram 3 times daily for 7 days Pediatric Dosage ( 2.2 ) Cold Sores (aged greater than or equal to 12 years) 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Chickenpox (aged 2 to less than 18 years) 20 mg/kg 3 times daily for 5 days; not to exceed 1 gram 3 times daily Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) can be prepared from the 500 mg valacyclovir tablets. Genital Herpes Initial Episode The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of initial genital herpes is 1 gram twice daily for 10 days. Recurrent Episodes The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of recurrent genital herpes is 500 mg twice daily for 3 days. Suppressive Therapy The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for chronic suppressive therapy of recurrent genital herpes is 1 gram once daily in patients with normal immune function. In HIV-1–infected patients with a CD4+ cell count greater than or equal to 100 cells/mm 3 , the recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for chronic suppressive therapy of recurrent genital herpes is 500 mg twice daily. Reduction of Transmission The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for reduction of transmission of genital herpes in patients with a history of 9 or fewer recurrences per year is 500 mg once daily for the source partner. Chickenpox The recommended dosage of valacyclovir for treatment of chickenpox in immunocompetent pediatric patients aged 2 to less than 18 years is 20 mg/kg administered 3 times daily for 5 days. Using a pestle and mortar, grind the required number of valacyclovir 500-mg tablets until a fine powder is produced (5 valacyclovir tablets for 25-mg/mL suspension; 10 valacyclovir tablets for 50-mg/mL suspension). Continue to add approximately 5-mL aliquots of SSV to the mortar, mixing thoroughly between additions, until a concentrated suspension is produced, to a minimum total quantity of 20 mL SSV and a maximum total quantity of 40 mL SSV for both the 25-mg/mL and 50- mg/mL suspensions. Data are not available for the use of valacyclovir in pediatric patients with a creatinine clearance less than 50 mL/min/1.73 m 2 . Valacyclovir Tablets Dosage Recommendations for Adults with Renal Impairment Indications Normal Dosage Regimen (Creatinine Clearance ≥ 50 mL/min) Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) 30-49 10-29 < 10 Cold sores (Herpes Labialis) Do not exceed 1 day of treatment. Two 2-gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 1-gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 500-mg doses taken 12 hours apart 500-mg single dose Genital herpes: Initial episode 1 gram every 12 hours no reduction 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Recurrent episode 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients 1 gram every 24 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Alternate dose for immunocompetent patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year 500 mg every 24 hours no reduction 500 mg every 48 hours 500 mg every 48 hours HIV-1–infected patients 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Herpes zoster 1 gram every 8 hours 1 gram every 12 hours 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Hemodialysis Patients requiring hemodialysis should receive the recommended dose of valacyclovir tablets after hemodialysis. Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) may be prepared extemporaneously from 500 mg valacyclovir tablets for use in pediatric patients for whom a solid dosage form is not appropriate [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. Adult Dosage (2.1) Cold Sores 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Genital Herpes Initial episode 1 gram twice daily for 10 days Recurrent episodes 500 mg twice daily for 3 days Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients 1 gram once daily Alternate dose in patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year 500 mg once daily HIV-1-infected patients 500 mg twice daily Reduction of transmission 500 mg once daily Herpes Zoster 1 gram 3 times daily for 7 days Pediatric Dosage (2.2) Cold Sores (aged greater than or equal to 12 years) 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Chickenpox (aged 2 to less than 18 years) 20 mg/kg 3 times daily for 5 days; not to exceed 1 gram 3 times daily Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) can be prepared from the 500 mg valacyclovir tablets. (2.3) 2.1 Adult Dosing Recommendations Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of cold sores is 2 grams twice daily for 1 day taken 12 hours apart. Chickenpox The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of chickenpox in immunocompetent pediatric patients aged 2 to less than18 years is 20 mg/kg administered 3 times daily for 5 days. Instructions for Preparing Suspension at Time of Dispensing: Prepare SSV according to the USP-NF. 2.4 Patients with Renal Impairment Dosage recommendations for adult patients with reduced renal function are provided in Table 1 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5 , 8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. About one third of acyclovir in the body is removed by dialysis during a 4-hour hemodialysis session. Adult Dosage ( 2.1 ) Cold Sores 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Genital Herpes Initial episode 1 gram twice daily for 10 days Recurrent episodes 500 mg twice daily for 3 days Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients 1 gram once daily Alternate dose in patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year 500 mg once daily HIV‑1-infected patients 500 mg twice daily Reduction of transmission 500 mg once daily Herpes Zoster 1 gram 3 times daily for 7 days Pediatric Dosage ( 2.2 ) Cold Sores (aged greater than or equal to 12 years) 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Chickenpox (aged 2 to less than 18 years) 20 mg/kg 3 times daily for 5 days; not to exceed 1 gram 3 times daily Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) can be prepared from the 500 mg valacyclovir tablets. In HIV‑1-infected patients with a CD4 + cell count greater than or equal to 100 cells/mm 3 , the recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for chronic suppressive therapy of recurrent genital herpes is 500 mg twice daily. Using a pestle and mortar, grind the required number of valacyclovir tablets 500 mg until a fine powder is produced (5 valacyclovir tablets for 25 mg/mL suspension; 10 valacyclovir tablets for 50 mg/mL suspension). Store suspension between 2°C to 8° C (36°F to 46° F) in a refrigerator. Valacyclovir Tablets Dosage Recommendations for Adults with Renal Impairment Indications Normal Dosage Regimen (Creatinine Clearance ≥ 50 mL/min) Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) 30 to 49 10 to 29 < 10 Cold sores (Herpes Labialis) Do not exceed 1 day of treatment. Two 2-gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 1-gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 500-mg doses taken 12 hours apart 500-mg single dose Genital herpes: Initial episode 1 gram every 12 hours no reduction 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Recurrent episode 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients 1 gram every 24 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Alternate dose for immunocompetent patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year 500 mg every 24 hours no reduction 500 mg every 48 hours 500 mg every 48 hours HIV‑1-infected patients 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Herpes zoster 1 gram every 8 hours 1 gram every 12 hours 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Hemodialysis Patients requiring hemodialysis should receive the recommended dose of valacyclovir tablets after hemodialysis. During hemodialysis, the half‑life of acyclovir after administration of valacyclovir tablets is approximately 4 hours. About one third of acyclovir in the body is removed by dialysis during a 4‑hour hemodialysis session. The removal of acyclovir after CAPD and CAVHD is less pronounced than with hemodialysis, and the pharmacokinetic parameters closely resemble those observed in patients with end‑stage renal disease (ESRD) not receiving hemodialysis. Adult Dosage (2.1) Cold Sores 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Genital Herpes Initial episode 1 gram twice daily for 10 days Recurrent episodes 500 mg twice daily for 3 days Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients Alternate dose in patients with ≤9 recurrences/yr HIV-infected patients 1 gram once daily 500 mg once daily 500 mg twice daily Reduction of transmission 500 mg once daily Herpes Zoster 1 gram 3 times daily for 7 days Pediatric Dosage (2.2) Cold Sores (≥12 years of age) 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Chickenpox (2 to <18 years of age) 20 mg/kg 3 times daily for 5 days not to exceed 1 gram 3 times daily Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) can be prepared from the 500 mg valacyclovir tablets. (2.3) 2.1 Adult Dosing Recommendations Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis): The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of cold sores is 2 grams twice daily for 1 day taken 12 hours apart. Genital Herpes: Initial Episode: The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of initial genital herpes is 1 gram twice daily for 10 days. In HIV-infected patients with a CD4+ cell count ≥100 cells/mm 3 , the recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for chronic suppressive therapy of recurrent genital herpes is 500 mg twice daily. Herpes Zoster: The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of herpes zoster is 1 gram 3 times daily for 7 days. 2.2 Pediatric Dosing Recommendations Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis): The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for the treatment of cold sores in pediatric patients ≥12 years of age is 2 grams twice daily for 1 day taken 12 hours apart. Chickenpox: The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of chickenpox in immunocompetent pediatric patients 2 to <18 years of age is 20 mg/kg administered 3 times daily for 5 days. 2.3 Extemporaneous Preparation of Oral Suspension Ingredients and Preparation per USP-NF: Valacyclovir tablets 500 mg, cherry flavor, and Suspension Structured Vehicle USP-NF (SSV). Prepare Suspension at Time of Dispensing as Follows: • Prepare SSV according to the USP-NF. • Using a pestle and mortar, grind the required number of valacyclovir 500 mg tablets until a fine powder is produced (5 valacyclovir tablets for 25 mg/mL suspension; 10 valacyclovir tablets for 50 mg/mL suspension). • Gradually add approximately 5 mL aliquots of SSV to the mortar and triturate the powder until a paste has been produced. • Continue to add approximately 5 mL aliquots of SSV to the mortar, mixing thoroughly between additions, until a concentrated suspension is produced, to a minimum total quantity of 20 mL SSV and a maximum total quantity of 40 mL SSV for both the 25 mg/mL and 50 mg/mL suspensions. • Transfer the mixture to a suitable 100 mL measuring flask. • Rinse the mortar at least 3 times with approximately 5 mL aliquots of SSV, transferring the rinsing to the measuring flask between additions. Data are not available for the use of valacyclovir tablets in pediatric patients with a creatinine clearance <50 mL/min/1.73 m 2 . Valacyclovir Tablets Dosage Recommendations for Adults With Renal Impairment Indications Normal Dosage Regimen (Creatinine Clearance ≥50 mL/min) Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) 30-49 10-29 <10 Cold sores (Herpes labialis) Do not exceed 1 day of treatment. Two 2 gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 1 gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 500 mg doses taken 12 hours apart 500 mg single dose Genital herpes: Initial episode 1 gram every 12 hours no reduction 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Recurrent episode 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients Alternate dose for immunocompetent patient with ≤9 recurrences/year HIV-infected patients 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction no reduction no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 48 hours 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 48 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Herpes zoster 1 gram every 8 hours 1 gram every 12 hours 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Hemodialysis: Patients requiring hemodialysis should receive the recommended dose of valacyclovir tablets after hemodialysis. Peritoneal Dialysis: There is no information specific to administration of valacyclovir tablets in patients receiving peritoneal dialysis. Valacyclovir tablets may be given without regard to meals. Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) may be prepared extemporaneously from the 500-mg valacyclovir tablets for use in pediatric patients for whom a solid dosage form is not appropriate [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)]. 2.1 Adult Dosing Recommendations Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of cold sores is 2 grams twice daily for 1 day taken 12 hours apart. In HIV-1-infected patients with a CD4+ cell count greater than or equal to 100 cells/mm3, the recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for chronic suppressive therapy of recurrent genital herpes is 500 mg twice daily. Therapy should be initiated at the earliest sign or symptom [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3), Clinical Studies (14.4)]. Transfer the cherry flavor1 to the mortar and dissolve in approximately 5 mL of SSV. Discard after 28 days." 1 The amount of cherry flavor added is as instructed by the suppliers of the cherry flavor. 2.4 Patients with Renal Impairment Dosage recommendations for adult patients with reduced renal function are provided in Table 1 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5, 8.6), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Data are not available for the use of valacyclovir tablets in pediatric patients with a creatinine clearance less than 50 mL/min/1.73 m2.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Valacyclovir tablets are contraindicated in patients who have had a demonstrated clinically significant hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis) to valacyclovir, acyclovir, or any component of the formulation [see Adverse Reactions (6.3) ] . ­Hypersensitivity to valacyclovir (e.g., anaphylaxis), acyclovir, or any component of the formulation. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Valacyclovir tablets are contraindicated in patients who have had a demonstrated clinically significant hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis) to valacyclovir, acyclovir, or any component of the formulation [see Adverse Reactions (6.3) ]. Hypersensitivity to valacyclovir (e.g., anaphylaxis), acyclovir, or any component of the formulation. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Valacyclovir tablets are contraindicated in patients who have had a demonstrated clinically significant hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis) to valacyclovir, acyclovir, or any component of the formulation [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.3 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Valacyclovir hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients who have had a demonstrated clinically significant hypersensitivity reaction [e.g., anaphylaxis, severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs)] to valacyclovir, acyclovir, or any component of the formulation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) , Adverse Reactions (6.3) ] . ‑Hypersensitivity to valacyclovir (e.g., anaphylaxis), acyclovir, or any component of the formulation. Valacyclovir tablets are contraindicated in patients who have had a demonstrated clinically significant hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis) to valacyclovir, acyclovir, or any component of the formulation [see Adverse Reactions (6.3)].
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No clinically significant drug-drug or drug-food interactions with valacyclovir hydrochloride are known [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No clinically significant drug-drug or drug-food interactions with valacyclovir tablets are known [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No clinically significant drug-drug or drug-food interactions with valacyclovir are known [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No clinically significant drug-drug or drug-food interactions with valacyclovir hydrochloride are known [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. No clinically significant drug-drug or drug-food interactions with valacyclovir tablets are known [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].

=== LITHIUM CARBONATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: HOMEOPATHIC INDICATIONS: For the temporary relief of symptoms of stress such as terror, horror, post traumatic stress, fight or flight response, recurring nightmares, difficulty sleeping, difficulty concentrating, restlessness, and easy irritability.** **These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. They have not been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration. PURPOSE: Arsenicum Album – Pain Under Arm, Aurum Metallicum – Back Pain, Baryta Carbonica - Irritability, Calcarea Carbonica - Fever, Glonoinum - Headache, Iodium – General Pain, Kali Iodatum – Hearing Loss, Lachesis Mutus - Sweat, Lithium Carbonicum - Coldness, Mercurius Solubilis – Pain Under Arm, Naja Tripudians – Back Pain, Phosphoricum Acidum - Irritability, Phosphorus - Coldness, Sepia - Fever, Spongia Tosta - Headache, Tabacum – General Pain, Thyroidinum (Suis) – Hearing Loss PURPOSE: Anacardium Orientale – Desire for Intimacy, Aurum Muriaticum Natronatum – Feeling Unloved, Camphora – Forsaken Feeling, DNA - Isolation, Germanium Metallicum - Isolation, Helleborus Niger - Disconnection, Hydrogen - Loneliness, Lac Caninum - Alienation, Lac Materna Humanum – Lack of Mother Child Bonding, Lithium Carbonicum – Feeling Unloved, Magnesia Oxydata – Desire for Intimacy, Natrum Carbonicum – Forsaken Feeling, Neon - Isolation, Oxytocin – Lack of Mother Child Bonding, Placenta Totalis Suis - Disconnection, Rhus Glabra - Loneliness, Saccharum Officinale – Feeling Unloved, Stramonium - Alienation, Thuja Occidentalis - Estrangement PURPOSE: For temporary relief of symptoms due to numbness, tingling, muscle cramps, and nerve pain. INDICATIONS: May temporarily relieve vomiting, exhaustion, and metallic taste.** **Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. Not FDA evaluated.
Indications: INDICATIONS Lithium carbonate is indicated in the treatment of manic episodes of Bipolar Disorder. Bipolar Disorder, Manic (DSM-IV) is equivalent to Manic Depressive illness, Manic, in the older DSM-II terminology. Lithium carbonate is also indicated as a maintenance treatment for individuals with a diagnosis of Bipolar Disorder. Maintenance therapy reduces the frequency of manic episodes and diminishes the intensity of those episodes which may occur. Typical symptoms of mania include pressure of speech, motor hyperactivity, reduced need for sleep, flight of ideas, grandiosity, elation, poor judgment, aggressiveness, and possibly hostility. When given to a patient experiencing a manic episode, lithium may produce a normalization of symptomatology within 1 to 3 weeks. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lithium is a mood-stabilizing agent indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of bipolar I disorder: • Treatment of acute manic and mixed episodes in patients 7 years and older [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] • Maintenance treatment in patients 7 years and older [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] Lithium is a mood-stabilizing agent indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of bipolar I disorder: • Treatment of acute manic and mixed episodes in patients 7 years and older ( 1 ) • Maintenance treatment in patients 7 years and older ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lithium is a mood-stabilizing agent indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of bipolar I disorder: Treatment of acute manic and mixed episodes in patients 7 years and older [see Clinical Studies (14) ] Maintenance treatment in patients 7 years and older [see Clinical Studies (14) ] Lithium is a mood-stabilizing agent indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of bipolar I disorder: Treatment of acute manic and mixed episodes in patients 7 years and older (1) Maintenance treatment in patients 7 years and older (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lithium is a mood-stabilizing agent indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of bipolar I disorder: Treatment of acute manic and mixed episodes in patients 7 years and older [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] Maintenance treatment in patients 7 years and older [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] Lithium is a mood-stabilizing agent indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of bipolar I disorder: Treatment of acute manic and mixed episodes in patients 7 years and older ( 1 ) Maintenance treatment in patients 7 years and older ( 1 ) HOMEOPATHIC INDICATIONS: For the temporary relief of symptoms of stress such as terror, horror, post traumatic stress, fight or flight response, recurring nightmares, difficulty sleeping, difficulty concentrating, restlessness, and easy irritability.** **These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. They have not been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration. USES: • For the temporary relief of symptoms including: • pain under arm • back pain • irritability • fever • headache • general pain • hearing loss • sweat • coldness These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. USES: • For the temporary relief of symptoms including: • desire for intimacy • forsaken feeling • isolation • disconnection • alienation • lack of mother child bonding • loneliness • estrangement • feeling unloved These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. INDICATIONS Lithium carbonate extended-release tablets are indicated in the treatment of manic episodes of Bipolar Disorder. Lithium carbonate extended-release tablets are also indicated as a maintenance treatment for individuals with a diagnosis of Bipolar Disorder. INDICATIONS: For temporary relief of symptoms due to numbness, tingling, muscle cramps, and nerve pain. INDICATIONS: May temporarily relieve vomiting, exhaustion, and metallic taste.** **Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. Not FDA evaluated.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Acute Mania Optimal patient response can usually be established with 1800 mg/day in the following dosages: ACUTE MANIA Morning Afternoon Nighttime Lithium Carbonate Extended-Release Tablets 1 3 tabs (900 mg) 3 tabs (900 mg) 1. Can also be administered on 600 mg TID recommended dosing interval. Such doses will normally produce an effective serum lithium concentration ranging between 1 and 1.5 mEq/L. Dosage must be individualized according to serum concentrations and clinical response. Regular monitoring of the patient’s clinical state and of serum lithium concentrations is necessary. Serum concentrations should be determined twice per week during the acute phase, and until the serum concentrations and clinical condition of the patient have been stabilized. Long-Term Control Desirable serum lithium concentrations are 0.6 to 1.2 mEq/L which can usually be achieved with 900 to 1200 mg/day. Dosage will vary from one individual to another, but generally the following dosages will maintain this concentration: LONG-TERM CONTROL Morning Afternoon Nighttime Lithium Carbonate Extended-Release Tablets 1 2 tabs (600 mg) 2 tabs (600 mg) 1. Can be administered on TID recommended dosing interval up to 1200 mg/day. Serum lithium concentrations in uncomplicated cases receiving maintenance therapy during remission should be monitored at least every two months. Patients abnormally sensitive to lithium may exhibit toxic signs at serum concentrations of 1 to 1.5 mEq/L. Geriatric patients often respond to reduced dosage, and may exhibit signs of toxicity at serum concentrations ordinarily tolerated by other patients. In general, dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Important Considerations Blood samples for serum lithium determinations should be drawn immediately prior to the next dose when lithium concentrations are relatively stable (i.e., 8 to 12 hours after previous dose). Total reliance must not be placed on serum concentrations alone. Accurate patient evaluation requires both clinical and laboratory analysis. Lithium carbonate extended-release tablets must be swallowed whole and never chewed or crushed. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended starting dosage for adults and pediatric patients over 30 kg ( 2.2 ): • Capsules: 300 mg, three times daily • Recommended starting dosage for pediatric patients 20 to 30 kg ( 2.2 ): • Capsules: 300 mg twice daily • Obtain serum lithium concentration assay after 3 days, drawn 12 hours after the last oral dose and regularly until patient is stabilized. • Acute Manic or Mixed Episodes (patients 7 years and older): Titrate to serum lithium concentrations 0.8 to 1.2 mEq/L ( 2.2 ). • Maintenance Treatment for Bipolar I Disorder (patients 7 years and older): Titrate to serum lithium concentrations 0.8 to 1 mEq/L ( 2.2 ). • Pre-treatment Screening: Evaluate renal function, vital signs, electrolytes, thyroid function, concurrent medications, and pregnancy status ( 2.1 ). • Mild to Moderate Renal Impairment (CLer 30 to 89 mL/min): Start with dosages less than those for patients with normal renal function, titrate slowly with frequent monitoring ( 2.5 ). • Severe Renal Impairment (CLer<30mL/min): Avoid use of lithium ( 2.5 ). 2.1 Pre-treatment Screening Before initiating treatment with lithium, renal function, vital signs, serum electrolytes, and thyroid function should be evaluated. Concurrent medications should be assessed, and if the patient is a woman of childbearing potential, pregnancy status and potential should be considered. 2.2 Recommended Dosage See Table 1 for dosage recommendations for acute and maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder in adult and pediatric patients (7 to 17 years). Obtain serum lithium concentration assay after 3 days, drawn 12 hours after the last oral dose and regularly until patient is stabilized. Fine hand tremor, polyuria, and thirst may occur during initial therapy for the acute manic phase and may persist throughout treatment. Nausea and general discomfort may also appear during the first few days of lithium administration. These adverse reactions may subside with continued treatment, concomitant administration with food, or temporary reduction or cessation of dosage. Table 1. Lithium Dosing for Bipolar I Disorder Patient Group Formulation Starting Dose Dose Titration Acute Goal Maintenance Goal Serum Level Usual Dose Serum Level Usual Dose Adult and Pediatric Patients over 30 kg Capsules 300 mg three times daily 300 mg every 3 days 0.8 to 1.2 mEq/L 600 mg two to three times daily 0.8 to 1.0 mEq/L 300 to 600 mg two to three times daily Pediatric Patients 20 to 30 kg Capsules 300 mg twice daily 300 mg weekly 600 to 1500 mg in divided doses daily 600 to 1200 mg in divided doses daily 2.3 Serum Lithium Monitoring Blood samples for serum lithium determination should be drawn immediately prior to the next dose when lithium concentrations are relatively stable (i.e., 12 hours after the previous dose). In addition to regular monitoring of serum lithium concentrations for patients on maintenance treatment, serum lithium concentrations should be monitored after any change in dosage, concurrent medication (e.g., diuretics, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, renin-angiotensin system antagonists, or metronidazole), marked increase or decrease in routinely performed strenuous physical activity (such as an exercise program) and in the event of a concomitant disease [See Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. Patients abnormally sensitive to lithium may exhibit toxic signs at serum concentrations that are within what is considered the therapeutic range. Geriatric patients often respond to reduced dosage, and may exhibit signs of toxicity at serum concentrations ordinarily tolerated by other patients [see Specific Populations ( 8.5 )]. 2.4 DosageAdjustments during Pregnancy and the Postpartum Period If the decision is made to continue lithium treatment during pregnancy, monitor serum lithium concentrations and adjust the dosage as needed in a pregnant woman because renal lithium clearance increases during pregnancy. Avoid sodium restriction or diuretic administration. To decrease the risk of postpartum lithium intoxication, decrease or discontinue lithium therapy two to three days before the expected delivery date to reduce neonatal concentrations and reduce the risk of maternal lithium intoxication due to the change in vascular volume which occurs during delivery. At delivery, vascular volume rapidly decreases and the renal clearance of lithium may decrease to pre-pregnancy concentrations. Restart treatment at the preconception dose when the patient is medically stable after delivery with careful monitoring of serum lithium concentrations [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 )]. 2.5 Dosage Adjustments for Patients with Renal Impairment Start patients with mild to moderately impaired renal function (creatinine clearance 30 to 89 mL/min evaluated by Cockcroft-Gault) with dosages less than those for patients with normal renal function [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )] . Titrate slowly while frequently monitoring serum lithium concentrations and monitoring for signs of lithium toxicity. Lithium is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min evaluated by Cockcroft-Gault) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended starting dosage for adults and pediatric patients over 30 kg (2.2) : Capsules: 300 mg, three times daily Recommended starting dosage for pediatric patients 20 to 30 kg (2.2) : Capsules: 300 mg twice daily Obtain serum lithium concentration assay after 3 days, drawn 12 hours after the last oral dose and regularly until patient is stabilized. Acute Manic or Mixed Episodes (patients 7 years and older): Titrate to serum lithium concentrations 0.8 to 1.2 mEq/L (2.2) . Maintenance Treatment for Bipolar I Disorder (patients 7 years and older): Titrate to serum lithium concentrations 0.8 to 1 mEq/L (2.2) . Pre-treatment Screening: Evaluate renal function, vital signs, electrolytes, thyroid function, concurrent medications, and pregnancy status (2.1) . Mild to Moderate Renal Impairment (CLer 30 to 89 mL/min): Start with dosages less than those for patients with normal renal function, titrate slowly with frequent monitoring (2.5) . Severe Renal Impairment (CLer < 30 mL/min): Avoid use of lithium (2.5) . Lithium Dosing for Bipolar I Disorder Patient Group Formulation Starting Dose Dose Titration Acute Goal Maintenance Goal Serum Level Usual Dose Serum Level Usual Dose Adult and Pediatric Patients over 30 kg Capsules 300 mg three times daily 300 mg every 3 days 0.8 to 1.2 mEq/L 600 mg two to three times daily 0.8 to 1 mEq/L 300 to 600 mg two to three times daily Pediatric Patients 20 to 30 kg Capsules 300 mg twice daily 300 mg weekly 600 to 1500 mg in divided doses daily 600 to 1200 mg in divided doses daily 2.3 Serum Lithium Monitoring Blood samples for serum lithium determination should be drawn immediately prior to the next dose when lithium concentrations are relatively stable (i.e., 12 hours after the previous dose). In addition to regular monitoring of serum lithium concentrations for patients on maintenance treatment, serum lithium concentrations should be monitored after any change in dosage, concurrent medication (e.g., diuretics, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, renin-angiotensin system antagonists, or metronidazole), marked increase or decrease in routinely performed strenuous physical activity (such as an exercise program) and in the event of a concomitant disease [see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. Geriatric patients often respond to reduced dosage, and may exhibit signs of toxicity at serum concentrations ordinarily tolerated by other patients [see Specific Populations (8.5) ]. 2.4 Dosage Adjustments during Pregnancy and the Postpartum Period If the decision is made to continue lithium treatment during pregnancy, monitor serum lithium concentrations and adjust the dosage as needed in a pregnant woman because renal lithium clearance increases during pregnancy. Restart treatment at the preconception dose when the patient is medically stable after delivery with careful monitoring of serum lithium concentrations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ]. 2.5 Dosage Adjustments for Patients with Renal Impairment Start patients with mild to moderately impaired renal function (creatinine clearance 30 to 89 mL/min evaluated by Cockcroft-Gault) with dosages less than those for patients with normal renal function [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. Lithium is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min evaluated by Cockcroft-Gault) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended starting dosage for adults and pediatric patients over 30 kg ( 2.2 ): Tablets or Capsules: 300 mg, three times daily, or Oral Solution: 8mEq lithium (5 mL) three times daily Recommended starting dosage for pediatric patients 20 to 30 kg ( 2.2 ): Tablets or Capsules: 300 mg twice daily, or Oral Solution: 8mEq (5mL), twice daily Obtain serum lithium concentration assay after 3 days, drawn 12 hours after the last oral dose and regularly until patient is stabilized. Acute Manic or Mixed Episodes (patients 7 years and older): Titrate to serum lithium concentrations 0.8 to 1.2 mEq/L ( 2.2 ). Maintenance Treatment for Bipolar I Disorder (patients 7 years and older): Titrate to serum lithium concentrations 0.8 to 1 mEq/L ( 2.2 ). Pre-treatment Screening: Evaluate renal function, vital signs, electrolytes, thyroid function, concurrent medications, and pregnancy status ( 2.1 ). Mild to Moderate Renal Impairment (CLer 30 to 89 mL/min): Start with dosages less than those for patients with normal renal function, titrate slowly with frequent monitoring ( 2.5 ). Severe Renal Impairment (CLer<30mL/min): Avoid use of lithium ( 2.5 ). Lithium Dosing for Bipolar I Disorder Patient Group Formulation Starting Dose Dose Titration Acute Goal Maintenance Goal Serum Level Usual Dose Serum Level Usual Dose Adult and Pediatric Patients over 30 kg Tablets or capsules 300 mg three times daily 300 mg every 3 days 0.8 to 1.2 mEq/L 600 mg two to three times daily 0.8 to 1.0 mEq/L 300 to 600 mg two to three times daily Liquid 8 mEq (5 mL) three times daily 8 mEq (5 mL) every 3 days 16 mEq (10mL) two to three times daily 8 to 16 mEq (5 to 10 mL) two to three times daily Pediatric Patients 20 to 30 kg Tablets or capsules 300 mg twice daily 300 mg weekly 600 to 1500 mg in divided doses daily 600 to 1200 mg in divided doses daily Liquid 8 mEq (5 mL) twice daily 8 mEq (5 mL) weekly 16 to 40 mEq (10 to 25 mL) in divided doses daily 16 to 32 mEq (10 to 20 mL) in divided doses daily Each 5 mL of Lithium Oral Solution contains 8 mEq of lithium ion (Li+) which is equivalent to the amount of lithium in 300 mg of lithium carbonate. See Table 2 for lithium carbonate and lithium oral solution dose conversion. Table 2. Lithium Carbonate and Lithium Oral Solution Dose Conversion Lithium Carbonate Tablets or Capsules Lithium Oral Solution 150 mg 4 mEq (2.5 mL) 300 mg 8 mEq (5 mL) 600 mg 16 mEq (10 mL) 2.3 Serum Lithium Monitoring Blood samples for serum lithium determination should be drawn immediately prior to the next dose when lithium concentrations are relatively stable (i.e., 12 hours after the previous dose). In addition to regular monitoring of serum lithium concentrations for patients on maintenance treatment, serum lithium concentrations should be monitored after any change in dosage, concurrent medication (e.g., diuretics, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, renin-angiotensin system antagonists, or metronidazole), marked increase or decrease in routinely performed strenuous physical activity (such as an exercise program) and in the event of a concomitant disease [see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . Geriatric patients often respond to reduced dosage, and may exhibit signs of toxicity at serum concentrations ordinarily tolerated by other patients [see Specific Populations ( 8.5 )] . Restart treatment at the preconception dose when the patient is medically stable after delivery with careful monitoring of serum lithium concentrations [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 )] . Lithium is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min evaluated by Cockcroft-Gault) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . DIRECTIONS: 1-10 drops under the tongue, 2 times a day or as directed by a health professional. Consult a physician for use in children under 12 years of age. DIRECTIONS: 1-10 drops under the tongue, 3 times a day or as directed by a health professional. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Acute Mania Optimal patient response can usually be established with 1,800 mg/day in the following dosages: 1 Can also be administered on 600 mg TID recommended dosing interval. ACUTE MANIA Morning Afternoon Nighttime Lithium Carbonate 3 tablets 3 tablets Extended-Release Tablets 1 (900 mg) (900 mg) Such doses will normally produce an effective serum lithium concentration ranging between 1.0 and 1.5 mEq/L. Regular monitoring of the patient's clinical state and of serum lithium concentrations is necessary. Long-Term Control Desirable serum lithium concentrations are 0.6 to 1.2 mEq/L which can usually be achieved with 900 to 1,200 mg/day. Dosage will vary from one individual to another, but generally the following dosages will maintain this concentration: 1 Can be administered on TID recommended dosing interval up to 1,200 mg/day. LONG-TERM CONTROL Morning Afternoon Nighttime Lithium Carbonate 2 tablets 2 tablets Extended-Release Tablets 1 (600 mg) (600 mg) Serum lithium concentrations in uncomplicated cases receiving maintenance therapy during remission should be monitored at least every two months. Patients abnormally sensitive to lithium may exhibit toxic signs at serum concentrations of 1.0 to 1.5 mEq/L. DIRECTIONS: 10 drops orally, 3 times a day. DIRECTIONS: Adults and children 5 to 10 drops orally, 3 time daily or as otherwise directed by a health care professional. If symptoms persist for more than 7 days, consult your health care professional.
Warnings: WARNINGS Lithium Toxicity The toxic concentrations for lithium (≥1.5 mEq/L) are close to the therapeutic range (0.8 to 1.2 mEq/L). Some patients abnormally sensitive to lithium may exhibit toxic signs at serum concentrations that are considered within the therapeutic range [see BOXED WARNING and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ]. Lithium may take up to 24 hours to distribute into brain tissue, so occurrence of acute toxicity symptoms may be delayed. Neurological signs of lithium toxicity range from mild neurological adverse reactions such as fine tremor, lightheadedness, lack of coordination, and weakness; to moderate manifestations like giddiness, apathy, drowsiness, hyperreflexia, muscle twitching, ataxia, blurred vision, tinnitus, and slurred speech; and severe manifestations such as clonus, confusion, seizure, coma, and death. In rare cases, neurological sequelae may persist despite discontinuing lithium treatment and may be associated with cerebellar atrophy. Cardiac manifestations involve electrocardiographic changes, such as prolonged QT interval, ST and T-wave changes and myocarditis. Renal manifestations include urine concentrating defect, nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, and renal failure. Respiratory manifestations include dyspnea, aspiration pneumonia, and respiratory failure. Gastrointestinal manifestations include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and bloating. No specific antidote for lithium poisoning is known [see OVERDOSAGE ]. The risk of lithium toxicity is increased by: Recent onset of concurrent febrile illness Concomitant administration of drugs which increase lithium serum concentrations by pharmacokinetic interactions or drugs affecting kidney function [see PRECAUTIONS-Drug Interactions ] Acute ingestion Impaired renal function Volume depletion or dehydration Significant cardiovascular disease Changes in electrolyte concentrations (especially sodium and potassium) Monitor for signs and symptoms of lithium toxicity. If symptoms occur, decrease dosage or discontinue lithium treatment. Unmasking of Brugada Syndrome There have been postmarketing reports of a possible association between treatment with lithium and the unmasking of Brugada Syndrome. Brugada Syndrome is a disorder characterized by abnormal electrocardiographic (ECG) findings and a risk of sudden death. Lithium should generally be avoided in patients with Brugada Syndrome or those suspected of having Brugada Syndrome. Consultation with a cardiologist is recommended if: (1) treatment with lithium is under consideration for patients suspected of having Brugada Syndrome or patients who have risk factors for Brugada Syndrome, e.g., unexplained syncope, a family history of Brugada Syndrome, or a family history of sudden unexplained death before the age of 45 years, (2) patients who develop unexplained syncope or palpitations after starting lithium therapy. Pseudotumor Cerebri Cases of pseudotumor cerebri (increased intracranial pressure and papilledema) have been reported with lithium use. If undetected, this condition may result in enlargement of the blind spot, constriction of visual fields, and eventual blindness due to optic atrophy. Lithium should be discontinued, if clinically possible, if this syndrome occurs. Renal Effects Chronic lithium therapy may be associated with diminution of renal concentrating ability, occasionally presenting as nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, with polyuria and polydipsia. Such patients should be carefully managed to avoid dehydration with resulting lithium retention and toxicity. This condition is usually reversible when lithium is discontinued. Post marketing cases consistent with nephrotic syndrome have been reported with the use of lithium. Biopsy findings in patients with nephrotic syndrome include minimal change disease and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. Discontinuation of lithium in patients with nephrotic syndrome has resulted in remission of nephrotic syndrome. Morphologic changes with glomerular and interstitial fibrosis and nephron atrophy have been reported in patients on chronic lithium therapy. Morphologic changes have also been seen in manic-depressive patients never exposed to lithium. The relationship between renal function and morphologic changes and their association with lithium therapy have not been established. Kidney function should be assessed prior to and during lithium therapy. Routine urinalysis and other tests may be used to evaluate tubular function (e.g., urine specific gravity or osmolality following a period of water deprivation, or 24-hour urine volume) and glomerular function (e.g., serum creatinine, creatinine clearance, or proteinuria). During lithium therapy, progressive or sudden changes in renal function, even within the normal range, indicate the need for re-evaluation of treatment. Encephalopathic Syndrome An encephalopathic syndrome (characterized by weakness, lethargy, fever, tremulousness and confusion, extrapyramidal symptoms, leukocytosis, elevated serum enzymes, BUN, and FBS) has occurred in a few patients treated with lithium plus a neuroleptic, most notably haloperidol. In some instances, the syndrome was followed by irreversible brain damage. Because of possible causal relationship between these events and the concomitant administration of lithium and neuroleptic drugs, patients receiving such combined therapy or patients with organic brain syndrome or other CNS impairment should be monitored closely for early evidence of neurologic toxicity and treatment discontinued promptly if such signs appear. This encephalopathic syndrome may be similar to or the same as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS). Serotonin Syndrome Lithium can precipitate serotonin syndrome, a potentially life-threatening condition. The risk is increased with concomitant use of other serotonergic drugs (including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone, and St. John’s Wort) and with drugs that impair metabolism of serotonin, i.e., MAOIs [see PRECAUTIONS ]. Serotonin syndrome signs and symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, and gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). Monitor all patients taking lithium for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue treatment with lithium and any concomitant serotonergic agents immediately if the above symptoms occur and initiate supportive symptomatic treatment. If concomitant use of lithium with other serotonergic drugs is clinically warranted, inform patients of the increased risk for serotonin syndrome and monitor for symptoms. Concomitant Use with Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Lithium may prolong the effects of neuromuscular blocking agents. Therefore, neuromuscular blocking agents should be given with caution to patients receiving lithium. Usage in Pregnancy Adverse effects on nidation in rats, embryo viability in mice, and metabolism in vitro of rat testis and human spermatozoa have been attributed to lithium, as have teratogenicity in submammalian species and cleft palate in mice. In humans, lithium may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Data from lithium birth registries suggest an increase in cardiac and other anomalies especially Ebstein’s anomaly. If this drug is used in women of childbearing potential, or during pregnancy, or if a patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised by their physician of the potential hazard to the fetus. Usage in Nursing Mothers Lithium is excreted in human milk. Nursing should not be undertaken during lithium therapy except in rare and unusual circumstances where, in the view of the physician, the potential benefits to the mother outweigh possible hazard to the infant or neonate. Signs and symptoms of lithium toxicity such as hypertonia, hypothermia, cyanosis and ECG changes have been reported in some infants and neonates. Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients under 12 years of age have not been determined; its use in these patients is not recommended. There has been a report of transient syndrome of acute dystonia and hyperreflexia occurring in a 15 kg pediatric patient who ingested 300 mg of lithium carbonate. WARNINGS: If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Do not use if tamper evident seal is broken or missing. Store in a cool, dry place. WARNINGS: If pregnant of breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, contact a physician or Poison Control Center right away. Tamper Evident: Sealed for your protection. Do not use if seal is broken or missing. Some patients abnormally sensitive to lithium may exhibit toxic signs at serum concentrations that are considered within the therapeutic range (see BOXED WARNING and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). No specific antidote for lithium poisoning is known (see OVERDOSAGE ). The risk of lithium toxicity is increased by: Recent onset of concurrent febrile illness Concomitant administration of drugs which increase lithium serum concentrations by pharmacokinetic interactions or drugs affecting kidney function ( see PRECAUTIONS-Drug Interactions ) Acute ingestion Impaired renal function Volume depletion or dehydration Significant cardiovascular disease Changes in electrolyte concentrations (especially sodium and potassium) Monitor for signs and symptoms of lithium toxicity. Psuedotumor Cerebri Cases of pseudotumor cerebri (increased intracranial pressure and papilledema) have been reported with lithium use. John's Wort) and with drugs that impair metabolism of serotonin, i.e., MAOIs (see PRECAUTIONS ). Data from lithium birth registries suggest an increase in cardiac and other anomalies, especially Ebstein's anomaly. Signs and symptoms of lithium toxicity such as hypertonia, hypothermia, cyanosis, and ECG changes have been reported in some infants and neonates. WARNINGS: If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health care professional before use. Store in cool, dry place. WARNINGS: If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Lithium is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any inactive ingredient in the lithium carbonate capsule or lithium citrate products [see Adverse Reactions ( 6 )]. Known hypersensitivity to any inactive ingredient in the drug product ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Lithium is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any inactive ingredient in the lithium carbonate capsule [see Adverse Reactions (6) ]. Known hypersensitivity to any inactive ingredient in the drug product. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Lithium is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any inactive ingredient in the lithium carbonate tablet or capsule or lithium citrate products [see Adverse Reactions ( 6 )]. ( 4 )
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Diuretic-, ACE-, and ARB-induced sodium loss may increase serum lithium concentrations. Start with lower doses of lithium or reduce dosage, while frequently monitoring serum lithium concentrations and signs of lithium toxicity. See WARNINGS for additional caution information. Concomitant administration of lithium with serotonergic drugs can precipitate serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during lithium initiation. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of lithium and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs. Examples of serotonergic drugs include selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRI), and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI). Concomitant administration of methyldopa, phenytoin, or carbamazepine with lithium may increase the risk of adverse reactions with these drugs. The following drugs can lower serum lithium concentrations by increasing urinary lithium excretion: acetazolamide, urea, xanthine preparations, and alkalinizing agents such as sodium bicarbonate. Concomitant extended use of iodide preparations, especially potassium iodide, with lithium may produce hypothyroidism. Concurrent use of calcium channel blocking agents with lithium may increase the risk of neurotoxicity in the form of ataxia, tremors, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea and/or tinnitus. Concurrent use of metronidazole with lithium may provoke lithium toxicity due to reduced renal clearance. Patients receiving such combined therapy should be monitored closely. Concurrent use of fluoxetine with lithium has resulted in both increased and decreased serum lithium concentrations. Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDS): Lithium levels should be closely monitored when patients initiate or discontinue NSAID use. In some cases, lithium toxicity has resulted from interactions between an NSAID and lithium. Indomethacin and piroxicam have been reported to increase significantly steady-state plasma lithium concentrations. There is also evidence that other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents, including the selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors, have the same effect. In a study conducted in healthy subjects, mean steady-state lithium plasma levels increased approximately 17% in subjects receiving lithium 450 mg BID with celecoxib 200 mg BID as compared to subjects receiving lithium alone. Concomitant use of lithium with a Sodium-Glucose Cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor may decrease serum lithium concentrations. Monitor serum lithium concentration more frequently during SGLT2 inhibitor initiation and dosage changes. Lithium may impair mental and/or physical abilities. Patients should be cautioned about activities requiring alertness (e.g., operating vehicles or machinery). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Diuretics, NSAID, renin-angiotensin system antagonists, or metronidazole may increase lithium serum concentrations. Recommend frequent monitoring of serum lithium concentration and adjust dosage when necessary. ( 2.3 , 7.1 ) • Serotonergic Agents: Increased risk of serotonin syndrome when co-administered with lithium. ( 5.6 , 7.1 ) • Antipsychotics: There have been reports of neurologic adverse reactions in patients treated with lithium and an antipsychotic, ranging from extrapyramidal symptoms to neuroleptic malignant syndrome. ( 5.5 , 7.1 ) 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Lithium Table 4: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Lithium Diuretics Clinical Impact: Diuretic-induced sodium loss may reduce lithium clearance and increase serum lithium concentrations . Intervention: More frequent monitoring of serum electrolyte and lithium concentrations. Reduce lithium dosage based on serum lithium concentration and clinical response [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Non-Steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAID) Clinical Impact: NSAID decrease renal blood flow, resulting in decreased renal clearance and increased serum lithium concentrations. Intervention: More frequent serum lithium concentration monitoring. Reduce lithium dosage based on serum lithium concentration and clinical response [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )]. Renin-Angiotensin System Antagonists Clinical Impact: Concomitant use increase steady-state serum lithium concentrations. Intervention: More frequent monitoring of serum lithium concentration. Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: Concomitant use can precipitate serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during lithium initiation. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of lithium and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] . Nitroimidazole Antibiotics Clinical Impact: Concomitant use may increase serum lithium concentrations due to reduced renal clearance. Acetazolamide, Urea, Xanthine Preparations, Alkalinizing Agents Clinical Impact: Concomitant use can lower serum lithium concentrations by increasing urinary lithium excretion. Increase lithium dosage based on serum lithium concentration and clinical response [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )]. Methyldopa, Phenytoin and Carbamazepine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use may increase risk of adverse reactions of these drugs. Intervention: Monitor patients closely for adverse reactions of methyldopa, phenytoin, and carbamazepine. Iodide Preparations Clinical Impact: Concomitant use may produce hypothyroidism. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs or symptoms of hypothyroidism [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )]. Calcium Channel Blocking Agents (CCB) Clinical Impact: Concomitant use may increase the risk of neurologic adverse reactions in the form of ataxia, tremors, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea and/or tinnitus. Intervention: Monitor for neurologic adverse reactions. Atypical and Typical Antipsychotic Drugs Clinical Impact: Reports of neurotoxic reactions in patients treated with both lithium and an antipsychotic, ranging from extrapyramidal symptoms to neuroleptic malignant syndrome, as well as reports of an encephalopathic syndrome in few patients treated with concomitant therapy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . Sodium-Glucose Cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of lithium with an SGLT2 inhibitor may decrease serum lithium concentrations. Intervention: Monitor serum lithium concentration more frequently during SGLT2 inhibitor initiation and dosage changes. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Clinical Impact: Lithium may prolong the effects of neuromuscular blocking agents. Intervention: Monitor for prolonged paralysis. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Diuretics, NSAID, renin-angiotensin system antagonists, or metronidazole may increase lithium serum concentrations. (2.3 , 7.1) Serotonergic Agents: Increased risk of serotonin syndrome when co-administered with lithium. (5.6 , 7.1) Antipsychotics: There have been reports of neurologic adverse reactions in patients treated with lithium and an antipsychotic, ranging from extrapyramidal symptoms to neuroleptic malignant syndrome. (5.5 , 7.1) 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Lithium Table 4: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Lithium Diuretics Clinical Impact: Diuretic-induced sodium loss may reduce lithium clearance and increase serum lithium concentrations. Reduce lithium dosage based on serum lithium concentration and clinical response [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) , Warning and Precautions (5.3) ] . Reduce lithium dosage based on serum lithium concentration and clinical response [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of lithium and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . Increase lithium dosage based on serum lithium concentration and clinical response [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . Intervention: Monitor patients for signs or symptoms of hypothyroidism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . Atypical and Typical Antipsychotic Drugs Clinical Impact: Reports of neurotoxic reactions in patients treated with both lithium and an antipsychotic, ranging from extrapyramidal symptoms to neuroleptic malignant syndrome, as well as reports of an encephalopathic syndrome in few patients treated with concomitant therapy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . ( 2.3 , 7.1 ) Serotonergic Agents: Increased risk of serotonin syndrome when co-administered with lithium. ( 5.6 , 7.1 ) Antipsychotics: There have been reports of neurologic adverse reactions in patients treated with lithium and an antipsychotic, ranging from extrapyramidal symptoms to neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Reduce lithium dosage based on serum lithium concentration and clinical response [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ), Warning and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Reduce lithium dosage based on serum lithium concentration and clinical response [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] . Increase lithium dosage based on serum lithium concentration and clinical response [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] . Intervention: Monitor patients for signs or symptoms of hypothyroidism [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] .

=== MIDODRINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Midodrine hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of symptomatic orthostatic hypotension (OH). Because midodrine hydrochloride tablets can cause marked elevation of supine blood pressure (BP>200 mmHg systolic), it should be used in patients whose lives are considerably impaired despite standard clinical care, including non-pharmacologic treatment (such as support stockings), fluid expansion, and lifestyle alterations. The indication is based on midodrine’s effect on increases in 1-minute standing systolic blood pressure, a surrogate marker considered likely to correspond to a clinical benefit. At present, however, clinical benefits of midodrine hydrochloride tablets, principally improved ability to perform life activities, have not been established. Further clinical trials are underway to verify and describe the clinical benefits of midodrine hydrochloride tablets. After initiation of treatment, midodrine hydrochloride tablets should be continued only for patients who report significant symptomatic improvement. Because midodrine hydrochloride tablets can cause marked elevation of supine blood pressure (BP > 200 mmHg systolic), it should be used in patients whose lives are considerably impaired despite standard clinical care, including non-pharmacologic treatment (such as support stockings), fluid expansion, and lifestyle alterations. The indication is based on midodrine hydrochloride tablets' effect on increases in 1-minute standing systolic blood pressure, a surrogate marker considered likely to correspond to a clinical benefit. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Midodrine hydrochloride is indicated for the treatment of symptomatic orthostatic hypotension (OH). Because midodrine hydrochloride can cause marked elevation of supine blood pressure (BP>200 mmHg systolic), it should be used in patients whose lives are considerably impaired despite standard clinical care, including non-pharmacologic treatment (such as support stockings), fluid expansion, and lifestyle alterations. The indication is based on midodrine hydrochloride's effect on increases in 1-minute standing systolic blood pressure, a surrogate marker considered likely to correspond to a clinical benefit. At present, however, clinical benefits of midodrine hydrochloride, principally improved ability to perform life activities, have not been established. Further clinical trials are underway to verify and describe the clinical benefits of midodrine hydrochloride. After initiation of treatment, midodrine hydrochloride should be continued only for patients who report significant symptomatic improvement. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Midodrine hydrochloride tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of symptomatic orthostatic hypotension (OH). Because midodrine hydrochloride tablets, USP can cause marked elevation of supine blood pressure (BP > 200 mmHg systolic), it should be used in patients whose lives are considerably impaired despite standard clinical care, including non-pharmacologic treatment (such as support stockings), fluid expansion, and lifestyle alterations. The indication is based on midodrine hydrochloride tablets, USP effect on increases in 1-minute standing systolic blood pressure, a surrogate marker considered likely to correspond to a clinical benefit. At present, however, clinical benefits of midodrine hydrochloride tablets, USP principally improved ability to perform life activities, have not been established. Further clinical trials are underway to verify and describe the clinical benefits of midodrine hydrochloride tablets, USP. After initiation of treatment, midodrine hydrochloride tablets, USP should be continued only for patients who report significant symptomatic improvement. The indication is based on midodrine hydrochloride 's effect on increases in 1-minute standing systolic blood pressure, a surrogate marker considered likely to correspond to a clinical benefit. Further clinical trials are underway to verify and describe the clinical benefits of midodrine hydrochloride . The indication is based on midodrine's effect on increases in 1-minute standing systolic blood pressure, a surrogate marker considered likely to correspond to a clinical benefit. Further clinical trials are underway to verify and describe the clinical benefits of midodrine. The indication is based on midodrine hydrochloride tablets's effect on increases in 1-minute standing systolic blood pressure, a surrogate marker considered likely to correspond to a clinical benefit.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of midodrine hydrochloride tablet is 10 mg, 3 times daily. Dosing should take place during the daytime hours when the patient needs to be upright, pursuing the activities of daily living. A suggested dosing schedule of approximately 4-hour intervals is as follows: shortly before, or upon arising in the morning, midday and late afternoon (not later than 6 P.M.). Doses may be given in 3-hour intervals, if required, to control symptoms, but not more frequently. Single doses as high as 20 mg have been given to patients, but severe and persistent systolic supine hypertension occurs at a high rate (about 45%) at this dose. In order to reduce the potential for supine hypertension during sleep, midodrine hydrochloride tablets should not be given after the evening meal or less than 4 hours before bedtime. Total daily doses greater than 30 mg have been tolerated by some patients, but their safety and usefulness have not been studied systematically or established. Because of the risk of supine hypertension, midodrine hydrochloride tablets should be continued only in patients who appear to attain symptomatic improvement during initial treatment. The supine and standing blood pressure should be monitored regularly, and the administration of midodrine hydrochloride tablets should be stopped if supine blood pressure increases excessively. Because desglymidodrine is excreted renally, dosing in patients with abnormal renal function should be cautious; although this has not been systematically studied, it is recommended that treatment of these patients be initiated using 2.5 mg doses. Dosing in children has not been adequately studied. Blood levels of midodrine and desglymidodrine were similar when comparing levels in patients 65 or older vs. younger than 65 and when comparing males vs. females, suggesting dose modifications for these groups are not necessary. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of midodrine hydrochloride tablets is 10 mg, 3 times daily. Dosing should take place during the daytime hours when the patient needs to be upright, pursuing the activities of daily life. A suggested dosing schedule of approximately 4-hour intervals is as follows: shortly before or upon arising in the morning, midday, and late afternoon (not later than 6 P.M.). Because desglymidodrine is excreted renally, dosing in patients with abnormal renal function should be cautious; although this has not been systematically studied, it is recommended that treatment of these patients be initiated using 2.5-mg doses.
Warnings: WARNINGS Supine Hypertension: The most potentially serious adverse reaction associated with midodrine therapy is marked elevation of supine arterial blood pressure (supine hypertension). Systolic pressure of about 200 mmHg were seen overall in about 13.4% of patients given 10 mg of midodrine . Systolic elevations of this degree were most likely to be observed in patients with relatively elevated pre-treatment systolic blood pressures (mean 170 mmHg). There is no experience in patients with initial supine systolic pressure above 180 mmHg, as those patients were excluded from the clinical trials. Use of midodrine in such patients is not recommended. Sitting blood pressures were also elevated by midodrine therapy. It is essential to monitor supine and sitting blood pressures in patients maintained on midodrine . Uncontrolled hypertension increases the risk of cardiovascular events, particularly stroke. WARNINGS Supine Hypertension The most potentially serious adverse reaction associated with midodrine hydrochloride tablets therapy is marked elevation of supine arterial blood pressure (supine hypertension). Systolic pressures of about 200 mmHg were seen overall in about 13.4% of patients given 10 mg of midodrine hydrochloride tablets. Use of midodrine hydrochloride tablets in such patients is not recommended. Sitting blood pressures were also elevated by midodrine hydrochloride tablets therapy. It is essential to monitor supine and sitting blood pressures in patients maintained on midodrine.Uncontrolled hypertension increases the risk of cardiovascular events, particularly stroke. WARNINGS Supine Hypertension: The most potentially serious adverse reaction associated with midodrine hydrochloride therapy is marked elevation of supine arterial blood pressure (supine hypertension). Systolic pressure of about 200 mmHg were seen overall in about 13.4% of patients given 10 mg of midodrine hydrochloride. Use of midodrine hydrochloride in such patients is not recommended. Sitting blood pressures were also elevated by midodrine hydrochloride therapy. It is essential to monitor supine and sitting blood pressures in patients maintained on midodrine hydrochloride. Systolic pressure of about 200 mmHg were seen overall in about 13.4% of patients given 10 mg of midodrine hydrochloride . It is essential to monitor supine and sitting blood pressures in patients maintained on midodrine hydrochloride . Systolic pressure of about 200 mmHg were seen overall in about 13.4% of patients given 10 mg of midodrine. It is essential to monitor supine and sitting blood pressures in patients maintained on midodrine. Uncontrolled hypertension increased the risk of cardiovascular events, particularly stroke.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Midodrine hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with severe organic heart disease, acute renal disease, urinary retention, pheochromocytoma or thyrotoxicosis. Midodrine should not be used in patients with persistent and excessive supine hypertension. Midodrine hydrochloride tablets should not be used in patients with persistent and excessive supine hypertension. CONTRAINDICATIONS Midodrine hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with severe organic heart disease, acute renal disease, urinary retention, pheochromocytoma or thyrotoxicosis. Midodrine hydrochloride should not be used in patients with persistent and excessive supine hypertension. CONTRAINDICATIONS M idodrine hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with severe organic heart disease, acute renal disease, urinary retention, pheochromocytoma or thyrotoxicosis. M idodrine hydrochloride should not be used in patients with persistent and excessive supine hypertension.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions When administered concomitantly with midodrine, cardiac glycosides may enhance or precipitate bradycardia, A.V. block or arrhythmia. The risk of hypertension increases with concomitant administration of drugs that increase blood pressure (phenylephrine, pseudoephedrine, ephedrine, dihydroergotamine, thyroid hormones, or droxidopa). Avoid concomitant use of drugs that increase blood pressure. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor blood pressure closely. Avoid use of MAO inhibitors or linezolid with midodrine. Midodrine has been used in patients concomitantly treated with salt-retaining steroid therapy (i.e., fludrocortisone acetate), with or without salt supplementation. The potential for supine hypertension should be carefully monitored in these patients and may be minimized by either reducing the dose of fludrocortisone acetate or decreasing the salt intake prior to initiation of treatment with midodrine. Alpha-adrenergic blocking agents, such as prazosin, terazosin, and doxazosin, can antagonize the effects of midodrine. Potential for Drug Interaction It appears possible, although there is no supporting experimental evidence, that the high renal clearance of desyglymidodrine (a base) is due to active tubular secretion by the base-secreting system also responsible for the secretionof such drugs as metformin, cimetidine, ranitidine, procainamide, triamterene, flecainide, and quinidine. Thus there may be a potential for drug-drug interactions with these drugs. Drug Interactions When administered concomitantly with midodrine hydrochloride tablets, cardiac glycosides may enhance or precipitate bradycardia, A.V. Midodrine hydrochloride tablets has been used in patients concomitantly treated with salt-retaining steroid therapy (i.e., fludrocortisone acetate), with or without salt supplementation. The potential for supine hypertension should be carefully monitored in these patients and may be minimized by either reducing the dose of fludrocortisone acetate or decreasing the salt intake prior to initiation of treatment with midodrine hydrochloride tablets. Alpha-adrenergic blocking agents, such as prazosin, terazosin, and doxazosin, can antagonize the effects of midodrine hydrochloride tablets. Drug Interactions: When administered concomitantly with midodrine hydrochloride, cardiac glycosides may enhance or precipitate bradycardia, A.V. Midodrine hydrochloride has been used in patients concomitantly treated with salt-retaining steroid therapy (i.e., fludrocortisone acetate), with or without salt supplementation. The potential for supine hypertension should be carefully monitored in these patients and may be minimized by either reducing the dose of fludrocortisone acetate or decreasing the salt intake prior to initiation of treatment with midodrine hydrochloride. Alpha-adrenergic blocking agents, such as prazosin, terazosin, and doxazosin, can antagonize the effects of midodrine hydrochloride. Drug Interactions When administered concomitantly with midodrine hydrochloride, cardiac glycosides may enhance or precipitate bradycardia, A.V. Drug Interactions: When administered concomitantly with midodrine hydrochloride , cardiac glycosides may enhance or precipitate bradycardia, A.V. The potential for supine hypertension should be carefully monitored in these patients and may be minimized by either reducing the dose of fludrocortisone acetate or decreasing the salt intake prior to initiation of treatment with midodrine hydrochloride . Alpha-adrenergic blocking agents, such as prazosin, terazosin, and doxazosin, can antagonize the effects of midodrine hydrochloride . Drug Interactions: When administered concomitantly with midodrine hydrochloride tablets, cardiac glycosides may enhance or precipitate bradycardia, A.V. The risk of hypertension increases with concomitant administration of drugs that increase blood pressure (phenylephrine, pseudoephedrine, ephedrine, dihydroergotamine, thyroid hormones or droxidopa).

=== MONTELUKAST SODIUM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Montelukast sodium chewable tablets are a leukotriene receptor antagonist indicated for: • Prophylaxis and chronic treatment of asthma in patients 2 years of age and older ( 1.1 ). • Acute prevention of exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB) in patients 6 years of age and older ( 1.2 ). • Relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis (AR): seasonal allergic rhinitis (SAR) in patients 2 years of age and older, and perennial allergic rhinitis (PAR) in patients 2 years of age and older. Reserve use for patients who have an inadequate response or intolerance to alternative therapies ( 1.3 ). 1.1 Asthma Montelukast sodium chewable tablets are indicated for the prophylaxis and chronic treatment of asthma in adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older. 1.2 Exercise-Induced Bronchoconstriction (EIB) Montelukast sodium chewable tablets are indicated for prevention of exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB) in patients 6 years of age and older. 1.3 Allergic Rhinitis sodium chewable tablets are indicated for the relief of symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis in patients 2 years of age and older and perennial allergic rhinitis in patients 2 of age and older. Because the benefits of montelukast sodium chewable tablets may not outweigh the risk of neuropsychiatric symptoms in patients with allergic rhinitis , use for patients who have an inadequate response or intolerance to alternative therapies. Montelukast sodium chewable tablets are indicated for the relief of symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis in patients 2 years of age and older and perennial allergic rhinitis in patients 2 years of age and older. Because the benefits of montelukast sodium chewable tablets may not outweigh the risk of neuropsychiatric symptoms in patients with allergic rhinitis [see warnings and precautions ( 5.1 )] , reserve use for patients who have an inadequate response or intolerance to alternative therapies. 1. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Montelukast sodium tablets are a leukotriene receptor antagonist indicated for: • Prophylaxis and chronic treatment of asthma in patients 2 years of age and older (1.1). • Acute prevention of exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB) in patients 15 years of age and older (1.2). • Relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis (AR): seasonal allergic rhinitis (SAR) in patients 2 years of age and older , and perennial allergic rhinitis (PAR) in patients 2 years of age and older (1.3). 1.1 Asthma Montelukast sodium is indicated for the prophylaxis and chronic treatment of asthma in adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older. 1.2 Exercise-Induced Bronchoconstriction Montelukast sodium is indicated for prevention of exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB) in patients 15 years of age and older. Pediatric use information for patients ages 6 to 14 years of age for acute prevention of exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB) is approved for Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp's montelukast tablet products. However , due to Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp's marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information. 1.3 Allergic Rhinitis Montelukast sodium is indicated for the relief of symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis in patients 2 years of age and older and perennial allergic rhinitis in patients 2 years of age and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Montelukast sodium chewable tablets are a leukotriene receptor antagonist indicated for: • Prophylaxis and chronic treatment of asthma in patients 2 years of age and older ( ). • Acute prevention of exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB) in patients 6 years of age and older ( ). Reserve use for patients who have an inadequate response or intolerance to alternative therapies ( ). Because the benefits of montelukast sodium chewable tablets may not outweigh the risk of neuropsychiatric symptoms in patients with allergic rhinitis [see warnings and precautions ( )] , reserve use for patients who have an inadequate response or intolerance to alternative therapies. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Montelukast sodium tablets is a leukotriene receptor antagonist indicated for: • Prophylaxis and chronic treatment of asthma in patients 12 months of age and older ( 1.1 ). • Relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis (AR): seasonal allergic rhinitis (SAR) in patients 2 years of age and older, and perennial allergic rhinitis (PAR) in patients 6 months of age and older ( 1.3 ). 1.1 Asthma Montelukast sodium is indicated for the prophylaxis and chronic treatment of asthma in adults and pediatric patients 12 months of age and older. 1.2 Exercise-Induced Bronchoconstriction (EIB) Montelukast sodium is indicated for prevention of exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB) in patients 6 years of age and older. 1.3 Allergic Rhinitis Montelukast sodium is indicated for the relief of symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis in patients 2 years of age and older and perennial allergic rhinitis in patients 6 months of age and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Montelukast sodium is a leukotriene receptor antagonist indicated for: • Prophylaxis and chronic treatment of asthma in patients 2 years of age and older ( 1.1 ). Limitations of Use: • Not indicated to treat an acute asthma attack ( 5.2 ). Because the benefits of montelukast sodium may not outweigh the risk of neuropsychiatric symptoms in patients with allergic rhinitis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )], reserve use for patients who have an inadequate response or intolerance to alternative therapies. 1.4 Limitations of Use Montelukast Sodium is not indicated for the treatment of an acute asthma attack.. • Relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis (AR): seasonal allergic rhinitis (SAR) in patients 2 years of age and older, and perennial allergic rhinitis (PAR) in patients 2 years of age and older ( 1.3 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Montelukast sodium tablets is a leukotriene receptor antagonist indicated for: Prophylaxis and chronic treatment of asthma in patients 12 months of age and older ( 1.1 ). Acute prevention of exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB) in patients 6 years of age and older ( 1.2 ). Relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis (AR): seasonal allergic rhinitis (SAR) in patients 2 years of age and older, and perennial allergic rhinitis (PAR) in patients 6 months of age and older ( 1.3 ). Because the benefits of montelukast sodium may not outweigh the risk of neuropsychiatric symptoms in patients with allergic rhinitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)], reserve use for patients who have an inadequate response or intolerance to alternative therapies. 1.4 Limitations of Use Montelukast sodium is not indicated for the treatment of an acute asthma attack.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administration (by indications): • Asthma ( 2.1 ): Once daily in the evening for patients 2 years and older. • Acute prevention of EIB ( 2.2 ): One tablet at least 2 hours before exercise for patients 6 years of age and older. • Seasonal allergic rhinitis ( 2.3 ): Once daily for patients 2 years and older. • Perennial allergic rhinitis ( 2.3 ): Once daily for patients 2 years and older. Dosage (by age) ( 2 ): • 15 years and older: one 10-mg tablet. • 6 to 14 years: one 5-mg chewable tablet. • 2 to 5 years: one 4-mg chewable tablet. Patients with both asthma and allergic rhinitis should take only one dose daily in the evening ( 2.4 ). 2.1 Asthma Montelukast sodium should be taken once daily in the evening. The following doses are recommended: For adults and adolescents 15 years of age and older: one 10-mg tablet. For pediatric patients 6 to 14 years of age: one 5-mg chewable tablet. For pediatric patients 2 to 5 years of age: one 4-mg chewable tablet. Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients less than 12 months of age with asthma have not been established. who miss a dose should take the next dose at their regular time and should not take 2 doses at the same time. There have been no clinical trials in patients with asthma to evaluate the relative efficacy of morning versus evening dosing. The pharmacokinetics of montelukast are similar whether dosed in the morning or evening. Efficacy has been demonstrated for asthma when montelukast was administered in the evening without regard to time of food ingestion. Montelukast sodium should be taken once daily in the evening. Patients who miss a dose should take the next dose at their regular time and should not take 2 doses at the same time. 2.2 Exercise-lnduced Bronchoconstriction (EIB) For prevention of EIB, a single dose of montelukast sodium should be taken at least 2 hours before exercise. An additional dose of montelukast sodium should not be taken within 24 hours of a previous dose. Patients already taking montelukast sodium daily for another indication (including chronic asthma) should not take an additional dose to prevent EIB. All patients should have available for rescue a short-acting β-agonist. Safety and efficacy in patients younger than 6 years of age have not been established. Daily administration of montelukast sodium for the chronic treatment of asthma has not been established to prevent acute episodes of EIB. 2.3 Allergic Rhinitis For allergic rhinitis, montelukast sodium should be taken once daily. Efficacy was demonstrated for seasonal allergic rhinitis when montelukast was administered in the morning or the evening without regard to time of food ingestion. The time of administration may be individualized to suit patient needs. The following doses for the treatment of symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis are recommended: For adults and adolescents 15 years of age and older: one 10-mg tablet. Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients younger than 2 years of age with seasonal allergic rhinitis have not been established. The following doses for the treatment of symptoms of perennial allergic rhinitis are recommended: For adults and adolescents 15 years of age and older: one 10-mg tablet. For allergic rhinitis, montelukast sodium should be taken once daily. Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients younger than 6 months of age with perennial allergic rhinitis have not been established. 2.4 Asthma and Allergic Rhinitis Patients with both asthma and allergic rhinitis should take only one montelukast sodium dose daily in the evening. Patients with both asthma and allergic rhinitis should take only one montelukast sodium dose daily in the evening. 2. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administration (by indications): • Asthma (2.1):Once daily in the evening for patients 2 years and older. • Acute prevention of EIB (2.2): One tablet at least 2 hours before exercise for patients 15 years of age and older. • Seasonal allergic rhinitis (2.3): Once daily for patients 2 years and older. • Perennial allergic rhinitis (2.3): Once daily for patients 2 years and older. Dosage (by age): • 15 years and older: one 10-mg tablet. • 2 to 5 years: one 4-mg chewable tablet . Patients with both asthma and allergic rhinitis should take only one dose daily in the evening (2.4). Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients less than 2 years of age with asthma have not been established. 2.2 Exercise-Induced Bronchoconstriction (EIB) in Patients 15 Years of Age and Older For prevention of EIB, a single 10 mg dose of montelukast should be taken at least 2 hours before exercise. An additional dose of montelukast should not be taken within 24 hours of a previous dose. All patients should have available for rescue a short-acting β‑agonist. Safety and effectiveness in patients younger than 15 years of age have not been established. Pediatric use information for patients ages 6 to 14 years of age for acute prevention of exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB) is approved for Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp's montelukast tablet products. However , due to Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp's marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information. For pediatric patients 2 to 5 years of age: one 4-mg chewable tablet . Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients younger than 2 years of age with perennial allergic rhinitis have not been established. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administration (by indications): • Asthma ( ): Once daily in the evening for patients 2 years and older. • Acute prevention of EIB ( ): One tablet at least 2 hours before exercise for patients 6 years of age and older. • Seasonal allergic rhinitis ( ): Once daily for patients 2 years and older. • Perennial allergic rhinitis ( ): Once daily for patients 2 years and older. Patients with both asthma and allergic rhinitis should take only one dose daily in the evening ( ). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administration (by indications): • Asthma ( 2.1 ): Once daily in the evening for patients 12 months and older. • Acute prevention of EIB ( 2.2 ): 10 mg tablet at least 2 hours before exercise for patients 6 years of age and older. • Perennial allergic rhinitis ( 2.3 ): Once daily for patients 6 months and older. 2.2 Exercise-Induced Bronchoconstriction (EIB) For prevention of EIB, a single dose of montelukast should be taken at least 2 hours before exercise. Patients already takingmontelukast sodium daily for another indication (including chronic asthma) should not take an additional dose to prevent EIB. All patients should have available for rescue a short-acting ß-agonist. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administration (by indications): • Asthma : Once daily in the evening for patients 2 years and older ( 2.1 ). • Acute prevention of EIB : One tablet at least 2 hours before exercise for patients 6 years of age and older ( 2.2 ). • Seasonal allergic rhinitis: Once daily for patients 2 years and older ( 2.3 ). • Perennial allergic rhinitis: Once daily for patients 2 years and older ( 2.3 ). Dosage (by age): • 15 years and older: one 10-mg tablet ( 2 ). • 6 to 14 years: one 5-mg chewable tablet ( 2 ). • 2 to 5 years: one 4-mg chewable tablet ( 2 ). 2.1 Asthma For asthma, administer montelukast sodium orally once daily in the evening, with or without food. The following doses are recommended: Table 1: Recommended Dosage in Asthma Age Dose Adult and adolescent patients 15 years of age and older one 10 mg tablet Pediatric patients 6 to 14 years of age one 5 mg chewable tablet Pediatric patients 2 to 5 years of age one 4 mg chewable tablet Patients who miss a dose should take the next dose at their regular time and should not take 2 doses at the same time. 2.2 Exercise-Induced Bronchoconstriction (EIB) For prevention of EIB, administer a single dose of montelukast sodium orally at least 2 hours, before exercise. The following doses are recommended: Table 2: Recommended Dosage in Exercise-Induced Bronchoconstriction (EIB) * Safety and effectiveness in patients younger than 6 years of age have not been established Age Dose Adult and adolescent patients 15 years of age and older one 10 mg tablet Pediatric patients 6 to 14 years of age* one 5 mg chewable tablet An additional dose of montelukast sodium should not be taken within 24 hours of a previous dose. 2.3 Allergic Rhinitis For allergic rhinitis, administer montelukast sodium orally once daily without regard to time of food ingestion. Time of administration in patients with allergic rhinitis can be individualized to suit patient needs. The following doses for the treatment of symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis are recommended: Table 3: Recommended Dosage in Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis * Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients younger than 2 years of age with seasonal allergic rhinitis have not been established Age Dose Adult and adolescent patients 15 years of age and older one 10 mg tablet Pediatric patients 6 to 14 years of age one 5 mg chewable tablet Pediatric patients 2 to 5 years of age* one 4 mg chewable tablet The following doses for the treatment of symptoms of perennial allergic rhinitis are recommended: Table 4: Recommended Dosage in Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Age Dose Adult and adolescent patients 15 years of age and older one 10 mg tablet Pediatric patients 6 to 14 years of age one 5 mg chewable tablet Pediatric patients 2 to 5 years of age one 4 mg chewable tablet Patients who miss a dose should take the next dose at their regular time and should not take 2 doses at the same time . 2.4 Asthma and Allergic Rhinitis For patients with both asthma and allergic rhinitis, administer only one montelukast sodium dose orally once daily in the evening. Dosage (by age) ( 2 ): • 15 years and older: one 10 mg tablet. 2.2 Exercise-Induced Bronchoconstriction (EIB) For prevention of EIB, a single dose of montelukast sodium should be taken at least 2 hours before exercise. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administration (by indications): Asthma ( 2.1 ): Once daily in the evening for patients 12 months and older. Acute prevention of EIB ( 2.2 ): 10 mg tablet at least 2 hours before exercise for patients 6 years of age and older. Seasonal allergic rhinitis ( 2.3 ): Once daily for patients 2 years and older. Perennial allergic rhinitis ( 2.3 ): Once daily for patients 6 months and older. Dosage (by age) ( 2 ): 15 years and older: one 10-mg tablet. 6 to 14 years: one 5-mg chewable tablet. 2 to 5 years: one 4-mg chewable tablet. 2.1 Asthma For asthma, administer montelukast sodium chewable tablets orally once daily in the evening, with or without food. The following doses are recommended: Table 1: Recommended Dosage in Asthma Patients who miss a dose should take the next dose at their regular time and should not take 2 doses at the same time 1 2.2 Exercise-Induced Bronchoconstriction (EIB) For prevention of EIB, administer a single dose of montelukast sodium chewable tablets orally at least 2 hours, before exercise. The following doses are recommended: Table 2: Recommended Dosage in Exercise-Induced Bronchoconstriction (EIB) *Safety and effectiveness in patients younger than 6 years of age have not been established. An additional dose of montelukast sodium chewable tablets should not be taken within 24 hours of a previous dose. Patients already taking montelukast sodium chewable tablets daily for another indication (including chronic asthma) should not take an additional dose to prevent EIB. Daily administration of montelukast sodium chewable tablets for the chronic treatment of asthma has not been established to prevent acute episodes of EIB. 1 2.3 Allergic Rhinitis For allergic rhinitis, administer montelukast sodium chewable tablets orally once daily without regard to time of food ingestion. The following doses for the treatment of symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis are recommended: Table 3: Recommended Dosage in Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis *Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients younger than 2 years of age with seasonal allergic rhinitis have not been established. The following doses for the treatment of symptoms of perennial allergic rhinitis are recommended: Table 4: Recommended Dosage in Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Patients who miss a dose should take the next dose at their regular time and should not take 2 doses at the same time. 1 1 2.4 Asthma and Allergic Rhinitis For patients with both asthma and allergic rhinitis, administer only one montelukast sodium chewable tablet dose orally once daily in the evening.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Hypersensitivity to any component of this product. • Hypersensitivity to any component of this product ( 4 ). 4. CONTRAINDICATIONS • Hypersensitivity to any component of this product (4). • Hypersensitivity to any component of this product. • Hypersensitivity to any component of this product ( ). • Hypersensitivity to any component of this product (4). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Montelukast sodium is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to any of its components. • Hypersensitivity to any component of montelukast sodium ( 4 ). Hypersensitivity to any component of this product (4).
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No dose adjustment is needed when montelukast sodium is co-administered with theophylline, prednisone, prednisolone, oral contraceptives, terfenadine, digoxin, warfarin, gemfibrozil, itraconazole, thyroid hormones, sedative hypnotics, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, benzodiazepines, decongestants, and Cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzyme inducers [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7. DRUG INTERACTIONS No dose adjustment is needed when montelukast sodium is co-administered with theophylline, prednisone, prednisolone, oral contraceptives, terfenadine, digoxin, warfarin, gemfibrozil, itraconazole, thyroid hormones, sedative hypnotics, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, benzodiazepines, decongestants, and Cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzyme inducers [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No dose adjustment is needed when montelukast sodium is co-administered with theophylline, prednisone, prednisolone, oral contraceptives, terfenadine, digoxin, warfarin, gemfibrozil, itraconazole, thyroid hormones, sedative hypnotics, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, benzodiazepines, decongestants, and Cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzyme inducers [see Clinical Pharmacology ( )] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No dose adjustment is needed when montelukast sodium is co-administered with theophylline, prednisone, prednisolone, oral contraceptives, terfenadine, digoxin, warfarin, gemfibrozil, itraconazole, thyroid hormones, sedative hypnotics, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, benzodiazepines, decongestants, and Cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzyme inducers [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No dose adjustment is needed when montelukast sodium is co-administered with theophylline, prednisone, prednisolone, oral contraceptives, fexofenadine, digoxin, warfarin, gemfibrozil, itraconazole, thyroid hormones, sedative hypnotics, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, benzodiazepines, decongestants, and Cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzyme inducers [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No dose adjustment is needed when montelukast sodium is co-administered with theophylline, prednisone, prednisolone, oral contraceptives, terfenadine, digoxin, warfarin, gemfibrozil, itraconazole, thyroid hormones, sedative hypnotics, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, benzodiazepines, decongestants, and Cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzyme inducers [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No dose adjustment is needed when montelukast sodium is co-administered with theophylline, prednisone, prednisolone, oral contraceptives, terfenadine, digoxin, warfarin, gemfibrozil, itraconazole, thyroid hormones, sedative hypnotics, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, benzodiazepines, decongestants, and Cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzyme inducers [ see Cinical Pharmacology (12.3) ].

=== MYCOPHENOLATE MOFETIL ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) is indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection, in adult and pediatric recipients 3 months of age and older of allogeneic kidney [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] , heart [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] or liver transplants [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ], in combination with other immunosuppressants. Mycophenolate mofetil is an antimetabolite immunosuppressant indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection in adult and pediatric recipients 3 months of age and older of allogeneic kidney, heart or liver transplants, in combination with other immunosuppressants ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mycophenolate mofetil capsules are indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection, in adult and pediatric recipients 3 months of age and older of allogeneic kidney [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ], heart [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] or liver transplants [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ], in combination with other immunosuppressants. Mycophenolate Mofetil capsules are an antimetabolite immunosuppressant indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection in adult and pediatric recipients 3 months of age and older of allogeneic kidney, heart or liver transplants, in combination with other immunosuppressants. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension (MMF) is indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection, in adult and pediatric recipients 3 months of age and older of allogeneic kidney [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ], heart [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] or liver transplants [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] , in combination with other immunosuppressants. Mycophenolate mofetil is an antimetabolite immunosuppressant indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection in adult and pediatric recipients 3 months of age and older of allogeneic kidney, heart or liver transplants, in combination with other immunosuppressants. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) is indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection, in adult and pediatric recipients 3 months of age and older of allogeneic kidney [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] , heart [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] or liver transplants [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] , in combination with other immunosuppressants. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) is indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection, in adult and pediatric recipients 3 months of age and older of allogeneic kidney [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] , heart [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] or liver transplants [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] , in combination with other immunosuppressants. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) is indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection, in adult and pediatric recipients 3 months of age and older of allogeneic kidney [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )], heart [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] or liver transplants [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )], in combination with other immunosuppressants. (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) is indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection, in adult and pediatric recipients 3 months of age and older of allogeneic kidney [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] , heart [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ] or liver transplants [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 ) ] , in combination with other immunosuppressants. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension is indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection, in adult and pediatric recipients 3 months of age and older of allogeneic kidney [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] , heart [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] or liver transplants [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] , in combination with other immunosuppressants. Mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension is an antimetabolite immunosuppressant indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection in adult and pediatric recipients 3 months of age and older of allogeneic kidney, heart or liver transplants, in combination with other immunosuppressants. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) is indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection, in adult and pediatric recipients 3 months of age and older of allogeneic kidney [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] , heart [see Clinical Studies (14.2)] or liver transplants [see Clinical Studies (14.3)] , in combination with other immunosuppressants.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ADULTS DOSAGE Kidney Transplant 1 g twice daily, orally ( 2.2 ) Heart Transplant 1.5 g twice daily orally ( 2.3 ) Liver Transplant 1.5 g twice daily orally ( 2.4 ) PEDIATRICS Kidney Transplant 600 mg/m 2 orally twice daily, up to maximum of 2 g daily ( 2.2 ) Heart Transplant 600 mg/m 2 orally twice daily, (starting dose) up to a maximum of 900 mg/m 2 twice daily (3 g) ( 2.3 ) Liver Transplant 600 mg/m 2 orally twice daily,daily (starting dose) up to a maximum of 900 mg/m 2 twice daily (3 g) ( 2.4 ) Reduce or interrupt dosing in the event of neutropenia. ( 2.5 ) See full prescribing information (FPI) for: adjustments for renal impairment and neutropenia ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Mycophenolate mofetil should not be used without the supervision of a physician with experience in immunosuppressive therapy. Mycophenolate Mofetil Capsules and Tablets Mycophenolate mofetil oral dosage forms (capsules or tablets) should not be used interchangeably with mycophenolic acid delayed-release tablets without supervision of a physician with experience in immunosuppressive therapy because the rates of absorption following the administration of mycophenolate mofetil oral dosage forms and mycophenolic acid delayed-release tablets are not equivalent. Mycophenolate mofetil tablets should not be crushed and mycophenolate mofetil capsules should not be opened or crushed. Patients should avoid inhalation or contact of the skin or mucous membranes with the powder contained in mycophenolate mofetil capsules and oral suspension. If such contact occurs, they must wash the area of contact thoroughly with soap and water. In case of ocular contact, rinse eyes with plain water. The initial oral dose of mycophenolate mofetil should be given as soon as possible following kidney, heart or liver transplant. It is recommended that mycophenolate mofetil be administered on an empty stomach. In stable transplant patients, however, mycophenolate mofetil may be administered with food if necessary [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Patients should be instructed to take a missed dose as soon as they remember, except if it is closer than 2 hours to the next scheduled dose; in this case, they should continue to take mycophenolate mofetil at the usual times. 2.2 Dosage Recommendations for Kidney Transplant Patients Adults The recommended dosage for adult kidney transplant patients is 1 g orally or intravenously infused over no less than 2 hours, twice daily (total daily dose of 2 g). Pediatrics (3 months and olderer) Pediatric dosing is based on body surface area (BSA).The recommended dosage of mycophenolate mofetil oral suspension for pediatric kidney transplant patients 3 months and older is 600 mg/m 2 , administered twice daily (maximum total daily dose of 2 g or 10 mL of the oral suspension). Pediatric patients with BSA ≥1.25 m 2 may be dosed with capsules or tablets as follows: Table 1 Pediatric Kidney Transplant: Dosage Using Capsules or Tablets Body Surface Area Dosage 1.25 m 2 to <1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsule 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥ 1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsules or tablets 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) 2.3 Dosage Recommendations for Heart Transplant Patients Adults The recommended dosage of mycophenolate mofetil for adult heart transplant patients is 1.5 g orally twice daily (total daily dose of 3 g). Pediatric patients with BSA ≥1.25 m 2 may be started on therapy with capsules or tablets as follows: Table 2 Pediatric Heart Transplant: Pediatric Starting Dosage Using Capsules or Tablets Body Surface Area Starting Dosage Maximum maintenance dose: 3 g total daily. 1.25 m 2 to <1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsule 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥ 1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsules or tablets 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) 2.4 Dosage Recommendations for Liver Transplant Patients Adults The recommended dosage of mycophenolate mofetil for adult liver transplant patients is 1.5 g administered orally twice daily (total daily dose of 3 g). Pediatric patients with BSA ≥1.25 m 2 may be started on therapy with capsules or tablets as follows: Table 3 Pediatric Liver Transplant: Pediatric Starting Dosage Using Capsules or Tablets Body Surface Area Starting Dosage Maximum maintenance dose: 3 g total daily. 1.25 m 2 to <1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsule 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥ 1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsules or tablets 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) 2.5 Dosage Modifications: Patients with Renal Impairment, Neutropenia Renal Impairment No dosage modifications are needed in kidney transplant patients with delayed graft function postoperatively [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . In kidney transplant patients with severe chronic impairment of the graft (GFR <25 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), do not administer doses of mycophenolate mofetil greater than 1 g twice a day. These patients should be carefully monitored [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Neutropenia If neutropenia develops (ANC <1.3 × 10 3 /µL), dosing with mycophenolate mofetil should be interrupted or reduced, appropriate diagnostic tests performed, and the patient managed appropriately [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ADULTS DOSAGE Kidne y Transplant 1 g twice daily orally ( 2.2 ) Heart Transplant 1.5 g twice daily orally ( 2.3 ) L i ve r Transplant 1.5 g twice daily orally ( 2.4 ) PEDIATRICS Kidne y Transplant 600 mg/m 2 orally twice daily, up to maximum of 2 g daily ( 2.2 ) Heart Transplant 600 mg/m 2 orally twice daily (starting dose) up to a maximum of 900 mg/m 2 twice daily (3 g) ( 2.3 ) Liver Transplant 600 mg/m 2 orally twice daily (starting dose) up to a maximum of 900 mg/m 2 twice daily (3 g) ( 2.4 ) • Mycophenolate mofetil Intravenous is an alternative when patients cannot tolerate oral medication. Administer within 24 hours following transplantation, until patients can tolerate oral medication, up to 14 days. ( 2.1 ) • Reduce or interrupt dosing in the event of neutropenia. ( 2.5 ) • See full prescribing information (FPI) for: adjustments for renal impairment and neutropenia. ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Mycophenolate mofetil should not be used without the supervision of a physician with experience in immunosuppressive therapy. Mycophenolate Mofetil Capsules Mycophenolate mofetil capsules should not be used interchangeably with mycophenolic acid delayed-release tablets without supervision of a physician with experience in immunosuppressive therapy because the rates of absorption following the administration of mycophenolate mofetil capsule and mycophenolic acid delayed-release tablets are not equivalent. Mycophenolate mofetil capsules should not be opened or crushed. Patients should avoid inhalation or contact of the skin or mucous membranes with the powder contained in Mycophenolate mofetil capsules. The initial oral dose of mycophenolate mofetil capsules should be given as soon as possible following kidney, heart or liver transplant. It is recommended that mycophenolate mofetil capsules be administered on an empty stomach. In stable transplant patients, however, mycophenolate mofetil capsules may be administered with food if necessary [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Patients should be instructed to take a missed dose as soon as they remember, except if it is closer than 2 hours to the next scheduled dose; in this case, they should continue to take mycophenolate mofetil capsules at the usual times. 2.2 Dosage Recommendations for Kidney Transplant Patients Adults The recommended dosage for adult kidney transplant patients is 1 g orally, twice daily (total daily dose of 2 g). Pediatrics (3 months and older) Pediatric dosing is based on body surface area (BSA). Pediatric patients with BSA ≥ 1.25 m 2 may be dosed with capsules as follows: Table 1 Pediatric Kidney Transplant: Dosage Using Capsules B od y Surface Area Dosage 1.25 m 2 to <1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsule 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥ 1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsules 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) 2.3 Dosage Recommendations for Heart Transplant Patients Adults The recommended dosage of mycophenolate mofetil capsules for adult heart transplant patients is 1.5 g orally administered twice daily (total daily dose of 3 g). Pediatrics (3 months and older) Pediatric patients with BSA ≥1.25 m 2 may be started on therapy with capsules as follows: Table 2 Pediatric Heart Transplant: Pediatric Starting Dosage Using Capsules B od y Surface Area Starting Dosage * 1.25 m 2 to <1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsule 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥ 1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsules 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) *Maximum maintenance dose: 3 g total daily. 2.4 Dosage Recommendations for Liver Transplant Patients Adults The recommended dosage of mycophenolate mofetil capsules for adult liver transplant patients is 1.5 g administered orally twice daily (total daily dose of 3 g). Pediatrics (3 months and older) Pediatric patients with BSA ≥1.25 m 2 may be started on therapy with capsules as follows: Table 3 Pediatric Liver Transplant: Pediatric Starting Dosage Using Capsules B od y Surface Area Starting Dosage * 1.25 m 2 to <1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsule 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥ 1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsules 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) *Maximum maintenance dose: 3 g total daily. 2.5 Dosage Modifications: Patients with Renal Impairment, Neutropenia Renal Impairment No dosage modifications are needed in kidney transplant patients with delayed graft function postoperatively [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. In kidney transplant patients with severe chronic impairment of the graft (GFR <25 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), do not administer doses of mycophenolate mofetil capsules greater than 1 g twice a day. These patients should be carefully monitored [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Neutropenia If neutropenia develops (ANC <1.3 x 10 3 /µL), dosing with mycophenolate mofetil capsules should be interrupted or reduced, appropriate diagnostic tests performed, and the patient managed appropriately [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ­ADULTS DOSAGE Kidney Transplant 1 g twice daily, orally ( 2.2 ) Heart Transplant 1.5 g twice daily orally ( 2.3 ) Liver Transplant 1.5 g twice daily orally ( 2.4 ) PEDIATRICS Kidney Transplant 600 mg/m 2 orally twice daily, up to maximum of 2 g daily ( 2.2 ) Heart Transplant 600 mg/m 2 orally twice daily (starting dose) up to a maximum of 900 mg/m 2 twice daily (3 g or 15 mL of oral suspension) ( 2.3 ) Liver Transplant 600 mg/m 2 orally twice daily (starting dose) up to a maximum of 900 mg/m 2 twice daily (3 g or 15 mL of oral suspension) ( 2.4 ) CELLCEPT Intravenous is an alternative when patients cannot tolerate oral medication. ( 2.1 ) Reduce or interrupt dosing in the event of neutropenia. ( 2.5 ) See full prescribing information (FPI) for: adjustments for renal impairment and neutropenia ( 2.5 ), preparation of oral suspension. ( 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension should not be used without the supervision of a physician with experience in immunosuppressive therapy. Mycophenolate mofetil for Oral Suspension Mycophenolate mofetil oral dosage forms (capsules, tablets or oral suspension) should not be used interchangeably with mycophenolic acid delayed-release tablets without supervision of a physician with experience in immunosuppressive therapy because the rates of absorption following the administration of mycophenolate mofetil oral dosage forms and mycophenolic acid delayed-release tablets are not equivalent. CELLCEPT tablets should not be crushed and CELLCEPT capsules should not be opened or crushed. Patients should avoid inhalation or contact of the skin or mucous membranes with the powder contained in CELLCEPT capsules and oral suspension. The initial oral dose of mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension should be given as soon as possible following kidney, heart or liver transplant. It is recommended that mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension be administered on an empty stomach. In stable transplant patients, however, mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension may be administered with food if necessary [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Once reconstituted, mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension must not be mixed with any liquids prior to dose administration. If needed, mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension can be administered via a nasogastric tube with a minimum size of 8 French (minimum 1.7 mm interior diameter). Patients should be instructed to take a missed dose as soon as they remember, except if it is closer than 2 hours to the next scheduled dose; in this case, they should continue to take mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension at the usual times. CELLCEPT Intravenous CELLCEPT Intravenous is recommended for patients unable to take oral mycophenolate mofetil. CELLCEPT Intravenous should be administered within 24 hours following transplant. CELLCEPT Intravenous can be administered for up to 14 days; however, patients should be switched to oral mycophenolate mofetil as soon as they can tolerate oral medication. The recommended dosage of mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension for pediatric kidney transplant patients 3 months and older is 600 mg/m 2 , administered twice daily (maximum total daily dose of 2 g or 10 mL of the oral suspension). Pediatric patients with BSA ≥ 1.25 m 2 may be dosed with capsules or tablets as follows: Table 1 Pediatric Kidney Transplant: Dosage Using Capsules or Tablets Body Surface Area Dosage 1.25 m 2 to ˂1.5 m 2 CELLCEPT capsule 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥ 1.5 m 2 CELLCEPT capsules or tablets 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) 2.3 Dosage Recommendations for Heart Transplant Patients Adults The recommended dosage of mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension for adult heart transplant patients is 1.5 g orally administered twice daily (total daily dose of 3 g). Pediatrics (3 months and older) The recommended starting dosage of mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension for pediatric heart transplant patients 3 months and older is 600 mg/m 2 , administered twice daily. If well tolerated, the dose can be increased to a maintenance dosage of 900 mg/m 2 twice daily (maximum total daily dose of 3 g or 15 mL of the oral suspension). The dose may be individualized based on clinical assessment . Pediatric patients with BSA ≥1.25 m 2 may be started on therapy with capsules or tablets as follows: Table 2 Pediatric Heart Transplant: Pediatric Starting Dosage Using Capsules or Tablets * Maximum maintenance dose: 3 g total daily. Body Surface Area Starting Dosage * 1.25 m 2 to ˂1.5 m 2 CELLCEPT capsule 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥ 1.5 m 2 CELLCEPT capsules or tablets 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) 2.4 Dosage Recommendations for Liver Transplant Patients Adults The recommended dosage of mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension for adult liver transplant patients is 1.5 g administered orally twice daily (total daily dose of 3 g). Pediatrics (3 months and older) The recommended starting dosage of mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension for pediatric liver transplant patients 3 months of age and older is 600 mg/m 2 , administered twice daily. Pediatric patients with BSA ≥1.25 m 2 may be started on therapy with capsules or tablets as follows: Table 3 Pediatric Liver Transplant: Pediatric Starting Dosage Using Capsules or Tablets * Maximum maintenance dose: 3 g total daily. Body Surface Area Starting Dosage * 1.25 m 2 to ˂1.5 m 2 CELLCEPT capsule 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥ 1.5 m 2 CELLCEPT capsules or tablets 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) 2.5 Dosage Modifications: Patients with Renal Impairment, Neutropenia Renal Impairment No dosage modifications are needed in kidney transplant patients with delayed graft function postoperatively [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . In kidney transplant patients with severe chronic impairment of the graft (GFR <25 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), do not administer doses of mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension greater than 1 g twice a day. Neutropenia If neutropenia develops (ANC <1.3 x 10 3 /μL), dosing with mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension should be interrupted or reduced, appropriate diagnostic tests performed, and the patient managed appropriately [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. 2.6 Preparation Instructions of Oral Suspension for Pharmacists General Preparation Instructions Before Handling the Formulations Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) has demonstrated teratogenic effects in humans. Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures 1 [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Adverse Reactions (6.2) , Use in Specific Populations (8.1 , 8.3), How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16.1) ]. Care should be taken to avoid inhalation or direct contact with skin or mucous membranes of the dry powder or the constituted suspension because MMF has demonstrated teratogenic effects in humans . Wearing disposable gloves is recommended during reconstitution and when wiping the outer surface of the bottle/cap and the table surface after reconstitution. If such contact occurs, wash hands thoroughly with soap and water; rinse eyes with water. Alert patients that they and others should also avoid inhalation or contact of the skin or mucous membranes with the oral suspension. Advise them to wash the area thoroughly with soap and water if such contact occurs; if ocular contact occurs, rinse eyes with plain water. Mycophenolate Mofetil for Oral Suspension Mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension must be reconstituted by the pharmacist prior to dispensing to the patient. Mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension should not be mixed with any other medication. After reconstitution, the oral suspension contains 200 mg/mL MMF. Before proceeding with the reconstitution steps read the general preparation instructions above [see General Preparation Instructions Before Handling the Formulations]. The following are the steps for reconstitution: Tap the closed bottle several times to loosen the powder. Measure 94 mL of water in a graduated cylinder. Add approximately half the total amount of water for reconstitution to the bottle and shake the closed bottle well for about 1 minute. Add the remainder of water and shake the closed bottle well for about 1 minute. Remove the child-resistant cap and push bottle adapter into neck of bottle. Close bottle with child-resistant cap tightly. This will assure the proper seating of the bottle adapter in the bottle and child-resistant status of the cap. Write the date of expiration of the constituted suspension on the bottle label. (The shelf-life of the constituted suspension is 60 days.) Dispense with the “Instruction for Use” and oral dispensers. Alert patients to read the important handling information described in the instructions for use. Store reconstituted suspension at 25°C (77°F); excursions permitted to 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F). Storage in a refrigerator at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) is acceptable. Do not freeze. Discard any unused portion 60 days after constitution. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ADULTS DOSAGE Kidney Transplant 1 g twice daily orally ( 2.2 ) Heart Transplant 1.5 g twice daily orally ( 2.3 ) Liver Transplant 1.5 g twice daily orally ( 2.4 ) PEDIATRICS Kidney Transplant 600 mg/m 2 orally twice daily, up to maximum of 2 g daily ( 2.2 ) Heart Transplant 600 mg/m 2 orally twice daily (starting dose) up to a maximum of 900 mg/m 2 twice daily (3 g or 15 mL of oral suspension) ( 2.3 ) Liver Transplant 600 mg/m 2 orally twice daily (starting dose) up to a maximum of 900 mg/m 2 twice daily (3 g or 15 mL of oral suspension) ( 2.4 ) Reduce or interrupt dosing in the event of neutropenia. ( 2.5 ) See full prescribing information (FPI) for: adjustments for renal impairment and neutropenia. 2.2 Dosage Recommendations for Kidney Transplant Patients Adults The recommended dosage for adult kidney transplant patients is 1 g orally twice daily (total daily dose of 2 g). The recommended dosage of mycophenolate mofetil oral suspension for pediatric kidney transplant patients 3 months and older is 600 mg/m 2 , administered twice daily (maximum total daily dose of 2 g or 10 mL of the oral suspension). Pediatric patients with BSA ≥ 1.25 m 2 may be dosed with capsules or tablets as follows: Table 1 Pediatric Kidney Transplant: Dosage Using Capsules or Tablets Body Surface Area Dosage 1.25 m 2 to < 1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsules 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥ 1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsules or tablets 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) 2.3 Dosage Recommendations for Heart Transplant Patients Adults The recommended dosage of mycophenolate mofetil for adult heart transplant patients is 1.5 g orally twice daily (total daily dose of 3 g). Pediatrics (3 months and older) The recommended starting dosage of mycophenolate mofetil oral suspension for pediatric heart transplant patients 3 months and older is 600 mg/m 2 , administered twice daily. The dose may be individualized based on clinical assessment. Pediatric patients with BSA ≥ 1.25 m 2 may be started on therapy with capsules or tablets as follows: Table 2 Pediatric Heart Transplant: Pediatric Starting Dosage Using Capsules or Tablets Body Surface Area Starting Dosage Maximum maintenance dose: 3 g total daily. 1.25 m2 to < 1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsules 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥ 1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsules or tablets 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) 2.4 Dosage Recommendations for Liver Transplant Patients Adults The recommended dosage of mycophenolate mofetil for adult liver transplant patients is 1.5 g administered orally twice daily (total daily dose of 3 g). Pediatrics (3 months and older) The recommended starting dosage of mycophenolate mofetil oral suspension for pediatric liver transplant patients 3 months of age and older is 600 mg/m 2 , administered twice daily. Pediatric patients with BSA ≥ 1.25 m 2 may be started on therapy with capsules or tablets as follows: Table 3 Pediatric Liver Transplant: Pediatric Starting Dosage Using Capsules or Tablets Body Surface Area Starting Dosage Maximum maintenance dose: 3 g total daily. 1.25 m 2 to < 1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsules 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥ 1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsules or tablets 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) 2.5 Dosage Modifications: Patients with Renal Impairment, Neutropenia Renal Impairment No dosage modifications are needed in kidney transplant patients with delayed graft function postoperatively [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . In kidney transplant patients with severe chronic impairment of the graft (GFR < 25 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), do not administer doses of mycophenolate mofetil greater than 1 g twice a day. Neutropenia If neutropenia develops (ANC < 1.3 x 10 3 /µL), dosing with mycophenolate mofetil should be interrupted or reduced, appropriate diagnostic tests performed, and the patient managed appropriately [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ADULTS DOSAGE Kidney Transplant 1 g twice daily, orally or intravenously (IV) over no less than 2 h ( 2.2 ) Heart Transplant 1.5 g twice daily orally or IV, over no less than 2 h ( 2.3 ) Liver Transplant 1.5 g twice daily orally or 1 g twice daily IV over no less than 2 h (2.4 ) PEDIATRICS Kidney Transplant 600 mg/m 2 orally twice daily, up to maximum of 2 g daily ( 2.2 ) Heart Transplant 600 mg/m 2 orally twice daily (starting dose) up to a maximum of 900 mg/m 2 twice daily (3 g or 15 mL of oral suspension) (2.3) Liver Transplant 600 mg/m 2 orally twice daily (starting dose) up to a maximum of 900 mg/m 2 twice daily (3 g or 15 mL of oral suspension) (2.4) Mycophenolate mofetil Intravenous is an alternative when patients cannot tolerate oral medication. (2.1 ) Reduce or interrupt dosing in the event of neutropenia. ( 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Mycophenolate mofetil should not be used without the supervision of a physician with experience in immunosuppressive therapy. Mycophenolate mofetil for Oral Suspension Mycophenolate mofetil oral dosage forms (oral suspension) should not be used interchangeably with mycophenolic acid delayed-release tablets without supervision of a physician with experience in immunosuppressive therapy because the rates of absorption following the administration of mycophenolate mofetil oral dosage forms and mycophenolic acid delayed-release tablets are not equivalent. Patients should avoid inhalation or contact of the skin or mucous membranes with the powder contained in mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension. In stable transplant patients, however, mycophenolate mofetil may be administered with food if necessary [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Mycophenolate mofetil Intravenous Mycophenolate mofetil Intravenous is recommended for patients unable to take oral mycophenolate mofetil. Mycophenolate mofetil Intravenous should be administered within 24 hours following transplant. Mycophenolate mofetil Intravenous can be administered for up to 14 days; however, patients should be switched to oral mycophenolate mofetil as soon as they can tolerate oral medication. Pediatric patients with BSA ≥ 1.25 m 2 may be dosed with capsules or tablets as follows: Table 1 Pediatric Kidney Transplant: Dosage Using Capsules or Tablets Body Surface Area Dosage 1.25 m 2 to <1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsule 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥ 1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsules or tablets 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) 2.3 Dosage Recommendations for Heart Transplant Patients Adults The recommended dosage of mycophenolate mofetil for adult heart transplant patients is 1.5 g orally or intravenously infused over no less than 2 hours administered twice daily (total daily dose of 3 g). Pediatric patients with BSA ≥1.25 m 2 may be started on therapy with capsules or tablets as follows: Table 2 Pediatric Heart Transplant: Pediatric Starting Dosage Using Capsules or Tablets Body Surface Area Starting Dosage * 1.25 m 2 to <1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsule 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥ 1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsules or tablets 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) *Maximum maintenance dose: 3 g total daily 2.4 Dosage Recommendations for Liver Transplant Patients Adults The recommended dosage of mycophenolate mofetil for adult liver transplant patients is 1.5 g administered orally twice daily (total daily dose of 3 g) or 1 g infused intravenously over no less than 2 hours, twice daily (total daily dose of 2 g). Pediatric patients with BSA ≥1.25 m 2 may be started on therapy with capsules or tablets as follows: Table 3 Pediatric Liver Transplant: Pediatric Starting Dosage Using Capsules or Tablets Body Surface Area Starting Dosage * 1.25 m 2 to <1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsule 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥ 1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsules or tablets 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) *Maximum maintenance dose: 3 g total daily. 2.5 Dosage Modifications: Patients with Renal Impairment, Neutropenia Renal Impairment No dosage modifications are needed in kidney transplant patients with delayed graft function postoperatively [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . These patients should be carefully monitored [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Neutropenia If neutropenia develops (ANC <1.3 x 10 3 /mcL), dosing with mycophenolate mofetil should be interrupted or reduced, appropriate diagnostic tests performed, and the patient managed appropriately [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures 1 [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 , 8.3 ), How Supplied/Storage and Handling ( 16.1 )]. Care should be taken to avoid inhalation or direct contact with skin or mucous membranes of the dry powder or the constituted suspension because MMF has demonstrated teratogenic effects in humans. Before proceeding with the reconstitution steps read the general preparation instructions above [see General Preparation Instructions Before Handling the Formulations] . Measure 91 mL of water in a graduated cylinder. Store reconstituted suspension at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F); excursions permitted to 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F) [See USP Controlled Room Temperature]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ADULTS DOSAGE Kidney Transplant 1g twice daily, orally or intravenously (IV) over no less than 2h ( 2.2 ) Heart Transplant 1.5 g twice daily orally or IV, over no less than 2 h ( 2.3 ) Liver Transplant 1.5 g twice daily orally or 1 g twice daily IV over no less than 2 h ( 2.4 ) PEDIATRICS Kidney Transplant 600mg/m 2 orally twice daily, up to maximum of 2 g daily ( 2.2 ) Heart Transplant 600 mg/m 2 orally twice daily (starting dose) up to a maximum of 900 mg/m 2 twice daily (3 g or 15 mL of oral suspension) (2.3) Liver Transplant 600 mg/m 2 orally twice daily (starting dose) up to a maximum of 900 mg/m 2 twice daily (3 g or 15 mL of oral suspension) (2.4) Mycophenolate mofetil intravenous is an alternative when patients cannot tolerate oral medication. ( 2.5 ) See full prescribing information (FPI) for: adjustments for renal impairment and neutropenia ( 2.5 ), preparation of oral suspension and IV solution. Mycophenolate Mofetil Capsules, Tablets and Oral Suspension Mycophenolate mofetil oral dosage forms (capsules, tablets or oral suspension) should not be used interchangeably with mycophenolic acid delayed-release tablets without supervision of a physician with experience in immunosuppressive therapy because the rates of absorption following the administration of mycophenolate mofetil oral dosage forms and mycophenolic acid delayed-release tablets are not equivalent. In stable transplant patients, however, mycophenolate mofetil may be administered with food if necessary [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Pediatric patients with BSA ≥ 1.25 m 2 may be dosed with capsules or tablets as follows: Table 1. Pediatric Kidney Transplant: Dosage Using Capsules or Tablets Body Surface Area Dosage 1.25 m 2 to less than 1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsule 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥ 1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsules or tablets 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) 2.3 Dosage Recommendations for Heart Transplant Patients Adults The recommended dosage of mycophenolate mofetil for adult heart transplant patients is 1.5 g orally or intravenously infused over no less than 2 hours administered twice daily (total daily dose of 3 g). Pediatric patients with BSA ≥1.25 m 2 may be started on therapy with capsules or tablets as follows: Table 2 Pediatric Heart Transplant: Pediatric Starting Dosage Using Capsules or Tablets Body Surface Area Starting Dosage* 1.25 m 2 to less than 1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsule 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥ 1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsules or tablets 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) * Maximum maintenance dose: 3 g total daily. 2.4 Dosage Recommendations for Liver Transplant Patients Adults The recommended dosage of mycophenolate mofetil for adult liver transplant patients is 1.5 g administered orally twice daily (total daily dose of 3 g) or 1 g infused intravenously over no less than 2 hours, twice daily (total daily dose of 2 g). Pediatric patients with BSA ≥1.25 m 2 may be started on therapy with capsules or tablets as follows: Table 3 Pediatric Liver Transplant: Pediatric Starting Dosage Using Capsules or Tablets Body Surface Area Starting Dosage * 1.25 m 2 to less than 1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsule 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥ 1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsules or tablets 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) * Maximum maintenance dose: 3 g total daily. 2.5 Dosage Modifications: Patients with Renal Impairment, Neutropenia Renal Impairment No dosage modifications are needed in kidney transplant patients with delayed graft function postoperatively [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. In kidney transplant patients with severe chronic impairment of the graft (GFR less than 25 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), do not administer doses of mycophenolate mofetil greater than 1 g twice a day. Neutropenia If neutropenia develops (ANC less than 1.3 x 103/mcL), dosing with mycophenolate mofetil should be interrupted or reduced, appropriate diagnostic tests performed, and the patient managed appropriately [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. 2.6 Preparation Instructions of Oral Suspension and Intravenous for Pharmacists General Preparation Instructions Before Handling the Formulations Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) has demonstrated teratogenic effects in humans. The following are the steps for reconstitution: 1. Tap the closed bottle several times to loosen the powder. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. (The shelf-life of the constituted suspension is 60 days.) 8. Dispense with the “Instruction for Use” and oral dispensers. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ADULTS DOSAGE Kidney Transplant 1 g twice daily, orally or intravenously (IV) over no less than 2 h ( 2.2 ) Heart Transplant 1.5 g twice daily orally or IV, over no less than 2 h ( 2.3 ) Liver Transplant 1.5 g twice daily orally or 1 g twice daily IV over no less than 2 h ( 2.4 ) PEDIATRICS Kidney Transplant 600 mg/m 2 orally twice daily, up to maximum of 2 g daily ( 2.2 ) Heart Transplant 600 mg/m 2 orally twice daily (starting dose) up to a maximum of 900 mg/m 2 twice daily (3 g or 15 mL of oral suspension) ( 2.3 ) Liver Transplant 600 mg/m 2 orally twice daily (starting dose) up to a maximum of 900 mg/m 2 twice daily (3 g or 15 mL of oral suspension) ( 2.4 ) CellCept intravenous is an alternative when patients cannot tolerate oral medication. Pediatric patients with BSA ≥ 1.25 m 2 may be dosed with capsules or tablets as follows: Table 1 Pediatric Kidney Transplant: Dosage Using Capsules or Tablets Body Surface Area Dosage 1.25 m 2 to <1.5 m 2 CellCept capsule 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥1.5 m 2 CellCept capsules or tablets 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) 2.3 Dosage Recommendations for Heart Transplant Patients Adults The recommended dosage of mycophenolate mofetil for adult heart transplant patients is 1.5 g orally or intravenously infused over no less than 2 hours administered twice daily (total daily dose of 3 g). Pediatric patients with BSA ≥1.25 m 2 may be started on therapy with capsules or tablets as follows: Table 2 Pediatric Heart Transplant: Pediatric Starting Dosage Using Capsules or Tablets Body Surface Area Starting Dosage* 1.25 m 2 to <1.5 m 2 CellCept capsule 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥1.5 m 2 CellCept capsules or tablets 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) * Maximum maintenance dose: 3 g total daily. Pediatric patients with BSA ≥1.25 m 2 may be started on therapy with capsules or tablets as follows: Table 3 Pediatric Liver Transplant: Pediatric Starting Dosage Using Capsules or Tablets Body Surface Area Starting Dosage* 1.25 m 2 to <1.5 m 2 CellCept capsule 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥1.5 m 2 CellCept capsules or tablets 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) * Maximum maintenance dose: 3 g total daily. These patients should be carefully monitored [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Neutropenia If neutropenia develops (ANC <1.3 × 10 3 /μL), dosing with mycophenolate mofetil should be interrupted or reduced, appropriate diagnostic tests performed, and the patient managed appropriately [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures 1 [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 , 8.3 ), How Supplied/Storage and Handling ( 16.1 )] . Before proceeding with the reconstitution steps read the general preparation instructions above [see General Preparation Instructions Before Handling the Formulations ]. (The shelf-life of the constituted suspension is 60 days.) Dispense with the "Instruction for Use" and oral dispensers. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ADULTS DOSAGE Kidney Transplant 1 g twice daily, orally (2.2) Heart Transplant 1.5 g twice daily, orally (2.3) Liver Transplant 1.5 g twice daily orally (2.4) PEDIATRICS Kidney Transplant 600 mg/m 2 orally twice daily, up to maximum of 2 g daily (2.2) Heart Transplant 600 mg/m 2 orally twice daily (starting dose) up to a maximum of 900 mg/m 2 twice daily (3 g or 15 mL of oral suspension) ( 2.3 ) Liver Transplant 600 mg/m 2 orally twice daily (starting dose) up to a maximum of 900 mg/m 2 twice daily (3 g or 15 mL of oral suspension) ( 2.4 ) CELLCEPT Intravenous is an alternative when patients cannot tolerate oral medication. (2.1) Reduce or interrupt dosing in the event of neutropenia. (2.5) See full prescribing information (FPI) for: adjustments for renal impairment and neutropenia (2.5) , preparation of oral suspension. (2.6) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension should not be used without the supervision of a physician with experience in immunosuppressive therapy. Mycophenolate Mofetil for Oral Suspension Mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension should not be used interchangeably with mycophenolic acid delayed-release tablets without supervision of a physician with experience in immunosuppressive therapy because the rates of absorption following the administration of mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension and mycophenolic acid delayed-release tablets are not equivalent. In stable transplant patients, however, mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension may be administered with food if necessary [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Pediatric patients with BSA ≥ 1.25 m 2 may be dosed with capsules or tablets as follows: Table 1 Pediatric Kidney Transplant: Dosage Using Capsules or Tablets Body Surface Area Dosage 1.25 m 2 to <1.5 m 2 CellCept capsule 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥ 1.5 m 2 CellCept capsules or tablets 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) 2.3 Dosage Recommendations for Heart Transplant Patients Adults The recommended dosage of mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension for adult heart transplant patients is 1.5 g orally administered twice daily (total daily dose of 3 g). Pediatric patients with BSA ≥1.25 m 2 may be started on therapy with capsules or tablets as follows: Table 2 Pediatric Heart Transplant: Pediatric Starting Dosage Using Capsules or Tablets Body Surface Area Starting Dosage* 1.25 m 2 to <1.5 m 2 CellCept capsule 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥ 1.5 m 2 CellCept capsules or tablets 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) *Maximum maintenance dose: 3 g total daily. 2.4 Dosage Recommendations for Liver Transplant Patients Adults The recommended dosage of mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension for adult liver transplant patients is 1.5 g administered orally twice daily (total daily dose of 3 g). Pediatric patients with BSA ≥1.25 m 2 may be started on therapy with capsules or tablets as follows: Table 3 Pediatric Liver Transplant: Pediatric Starting Dosage Using Capsules or Tablets Body Surface Area Starting Dosage* 1.25 m 2 to <1.5 m 2 CellCept capsule 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥ 1.5 m 2 CellCept capsules or tablets 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) *Maximum maintenance dose: 3 g total daily. 2.5 Dosage Modifications: Patients with Renal Impairment, Neutropenia Renal Impairment No dosage modifications are needed in kidney transplant patients with delayed graft function postoperatively [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Neutropenia If neutropenia develops (ANC <1.3 x 10 3 /µL), dosing with mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension should be interrupted or reduced, appropriate diagnostic tests performed, and the patient managed appropriately [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures 1 [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Adverse Reactions (6.2) , Use in Specific Populations (8.1, 8.3) , How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16.1) ]. Before proceeding with the reconstitution steps read the general preparation instructions above [see General Preparation Instructions Before Handling the Formulations ] . (The shelf-life of the constituted suspension is 60 days.) Dispense with the “Instructions for Use” and oral dispensers. Store reconstituted suspension at 25°C (77°F); excursions permitted to 15° to 30°C (59° to 86°F). Storage in a refrigerator at 2° to 8°C (36° to 46°F) is acceptable. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ADULTS DOSAGE Kidney Transplant 1 g twice daily, orally (2.2) Heart Transplant 1.5 g twice daily orally (2.3) Liver Transplant 1.5 g twice daily orally (2.4) PEDIATRICS Kidney Transplant 600 mg/m 2 twice daily, up to maximum of 2 g daily (2.2) Heart Transplant 600 mg/m 2 orally twice daily (starting dose) up to a maximum of 900 mg/m 2 twice daily (2.3) Liver Transplant 600 mg/m 2 orally twice daily (starting dose) up to a maximum of 900 mg/m 2 twice daily (2.4) Reduce or interrupt dosing in the event of neutropenia. (2.5) See full prescribing information (FPI) for: adjustments for renal impairment and neutropenia (2.5). 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Mycophenolate mofetil should not be used without the supervision of a physician with experience in immunosuppressive therapy. In stable transplant patients, however, mycophenolate mofetil may be administered with food if necessary [see Clinical Pharmacology (12 .3)]. Pediatric patients with BSA ≥ 1.25 m 2 may be dosed with capsules or tablets as follows: Table 1 Pediatric Kidney Transplant: Dosage Using Capsules or Tablets Body Surface Area Dosage 1.25 m 2 to <1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsule 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥ 1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsules or tablets 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) 2.3 Dosage Recommendations for Heart Transplant Patients Adults The recommended dosage of Mycophenolate mofetil for adult heart transplant patients is 1.5 g orally administered twice daily (total daily dose of 3 g). Pediatric patients with BSA ≥1.25 m 2 may be started on therapy with capsules or tablets as follows: Table 2 Pediatric Heart Transplant: Pediatric Starting Dosage Using Capsules or Tablets *Maximum maintenance dose: 3 g total daily. Body Surface Area Starting Dosage* 1.25 m 2 to <1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsule 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥ 1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsules or tablets 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) 2.4 Dosage Recommendations for Liver Transplant Patients Adults The recommended dosage of Mycophenolate mofetil for adult liver transplant patients is 1.5 g administered orally twice daily (total daily dose of 3 g). Pediatric patients with BSA ≥1.25 m 2 may be started on therapy with capsules or tablets as follows: Table 3 Pediatric Liver Transplant: Pediatric Starting Dosage Using Capsules or Tablets *Maximum maintenance dose: 3 g total daily. Body Surface Area Starting Dosage* 1.25 m 2 to <1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsule 750 mg twice daily (1.5 g total daily dose) ≥ 1.5 m 2 Mycophenolate mofetil capsules or tablets 1 g twice daily (2 g total daily dose) 2.5 Dosage Modifications: Patients with Renal Impairment, Neutropenia Renal Impairment No dosage modifications are needed in kidney transplant patients with delayed graft function postoperatively [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . These patients should be carefully monitored [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Neutropenia If neutropenia develops (ANC <1.3 x 10 3 /μL), dosing with mycophenolate mofetil should be interrupted or reduced, appropriate diagnostic tests performed, and the patient managed appropriately [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Adverse Reactions (6.1)].
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Allergic reactions to mycophenolate mofetil have been observed; therefore, mycophenolate mofetil is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), mycophenolic acid (MPA) or any component of the drug product. Hypersensitivity to mycophenolate mofetil, mycophenolic acid or any component of the drug product ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mycophenolate mofetil capsule is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity, including anaphylaxis, to mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), mycophenolic acid (MPA) or any component of the drug product [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )]. • History of hypersensitivity, including anaphylaxis, to mycophenolate mofetil, mycophenolic acid or any component of the drug product 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mycophenolate mofetil for oral suspension is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity, including anaphylaxis, to mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), mycophenolic acid (MPA) or any component of the drug product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . History of hypersensitivity, including anaphylaxis, to mycophenolate mofetil, mycophenolic acid or any component of the drug product ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mycophenolate mofetil is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity, including anaphylaxis, to mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), mycophenolic acid (MPA) or any component of the drug product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mycophenolate mofetil is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity, including anaphylaxis, to mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), mycophenolic acid (MPA) or any component of the drug product [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] . Mycophenolate mofetil intravenous is contraindicated in patients who are allergic to Polysorbate 80 (TWEEN). Hypersensitivity to mycophenolate mofetil, mycophenolic acid or any component of the drug product ( 4 ) Patients allergic to Polysorbate 80 (present in mycophenolate mofetil IV) ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mycophenolate mofetil is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity, including anaphylaxis, to mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), mycophenolic acid (MPA) or any component of the drug product [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5. 8 )] . History of hypersensitivity, including anaphylaxis, to mycophenolate mofetil, mycophenolic acid or any component of the drug product (4) Hypersensitivity to mycophenolate mofetil, mycophenolic acid or any component of the drug product (4)
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See FPI for drugs that may interfere with systemic exposure and reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy: antacids with magnesium or aluminum hydroxide, proton pump inhibitors, drugs that interfere with enterohepatic recirculation, telmisartan, calcium-free phosphate binders. ( 7.1 ) Mycophenolate mofetil may reduce effectiveness of oral contraceptives. Use of additional barrier contraceptive methods is recommended. ( 7.2 ) See FPI for other important drug interactions. ( 7 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Mycophenolate Mofetil Table 7 Drug Interactions with Mycophenolate mofetil that Affect Mycophenolic Acid (MPA) Exposure Antacids with Magnesium or Aluminum Hydroxide Clinical Impact Concomitant use with an antacid containing magnesium or aluminum hydroxide decreases MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy. Prevention or Management Administer magnesium or aluminum hydroxide containing antacids at least 2h after mycophenolate mofetil administration. Proton Pump Inhibitors (PPIs) Clinical Impact Concomitant use with PPIs decreases MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy. Prevention or Management Monitor patients for alterations in efficacy when PPIs are co-administered with mycophenolate mofetil. Examples Lansoprazole, pantoprazole Drugs that Interfere with Enterohepatic Recirculation Clinical Impact Concomitant use with drugs that directly interfere with enterohepatic recirculation, or indirectly interfere with enterohepatic recirculation by altering the gastrointestinal flora, can decrease MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy. Prevention or Management Monitor patients for alterations in efficacy or mycophenolate mofetil related adverse reactions when these drugs are co-administered with mycophenolate mofetil. Examples Cyclosporine A,trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, bile acid sequestrants (cholestyramine), rifampin as well as aminoglycoside, cephalosporin, fluoroquinolone and penicillin classes of antimicrobials Drugs Modulating Glucuronidation Clinical Impact Concomitant use with drugs inducing glucuronidation decreases MPA systemic exposure, potentially reducing mycophenolate mofetil efficacy, while use with drugs inhibiting glucuronidation increases MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of mycophenolate mofetil related adverse reactions. Examples Telmisartan (induces glucuronidation); isavuconazole (inhibits glucuronidation). Calcium Free Phosphate Binders Clinical Impact Concomitant use with calcium free phosphate binders decrease MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy. Prevention or Management Administer calcium free phosphate binders at least 2 hours after mycophenolate mofetil. Examples Sevelamer 7.2 Effect of Mycophenolate Mofetil on Other Drugs Table 8 Drug Interactions with Mycophenolate mofetil that Affect Other Drugs Drugs that Undergo Renal Tubular Secretion Clinical Impact When concomitantly used with mycophenolate mofetil, its metabolite MPAG, may compete with drugs eliminated by renal tubular secretion which may increase plasma concentrations and/or adverse reactions associated with these drugs. Prevention or Management Monitor for drug-related adverse reactions in patients with renal impairment. Examples Acyclovir, ganciclovir, probenecid, valacyclovir, valganciclovir Combination Oral Contraceptives Clinical Impact Concomitant use with mycophenolate mofetil decreased the systemic exposure to levonorgestrel, but did not affect the systemic exposure to ethinylestradiol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may result in reduced combination oral contraceptive effectiveness. Prevention or Management Use additional barrier contraceptive methods. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • See FPI for drugs that may interfere with systemic exposure and reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy: antacids with magnesium or aluminum hydroxide, proton pump inhibitors, drugs that interfere with enterohepatic recirculation, telmisartan, calcium-free phosphate binders. ( 7.1 ) • Mycophenolate mofetil may reduce effectiveness of oral contraceptives. ( 7.2 ) • See FPI for other important drug interactions. ( 7 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Mycophenolate Mofetil Table 7 Drug Interactions with Mycophenolate Mofetil that Affect Mycophenolic Acid (MPA) Exposure Antacid s with Magnesium or Aluminum Hydroxide Clinical Impact Concomitant use with an antacid containing magnesium or aluminum hydroxide decreases MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy. Preventio n or Management Administer magnesium or aluminum hydroxide containing antacids at least 2h after mycophenolate mofetil administration. Proto n Pump Inhibitors (PPIs) Clinica l Impact Concomitant use with PPIs decreases MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy. Preventio n or Management Monitor patients for alterations in efficacy when PPIs are co- administered with mycophenolate mofetil. Examples Lansoprazole, pantoprazole Drugs that Interfere with Enterohepatic Recirculation Clinical Impact Concomitant use with drugs that directly interfere with enterohepatic recirculation, or indirectly interfere with enterohepatic recirculation by altering the gastrointestinal flora, can decrease MPA systemic exposure [se e Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy. Preventio n or Management Monitor patients for alterations in efficacy or mycophenolate mofetil related adverse reactions when these drugs are co-administered with mycophenolate mofetil. Examples Cyclosporine A, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, bile acid sequestrants (cholestyramine), rifampin as well as aminoglycoside, cephalosporin, fluoroquinolone and penicillin classes of antimicrobials Drug s Modulating Glucuronidation Clinica l Impact Concomitant use with drugs inducing glucuronidation decreases MPA systemic exposure, potentially reducing mycophenolate mofetil efficacy, while use with drugs inhibiting glucuronidation increases MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of mycophenolate mofetil related adverse reactions. Calcium Free Phosphate Binders Clinica l Impact Concomitant use with calcium free phosphate binders decrease MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy. Preventio n or Management Administer calcium free phosphate binders at least 2 hours after mycophenolate mofetil. Examples Sevelamer 7.2 Effect of Mycophenolate Mofetil on Other Drugs Table 8 Drug Interactions with Mycophenolate Mofetil that Affect Other Drugs Drug s that Undergo Renal Tubular Secretion Clinica l Impact When concomitantly used with mycophenolate mofetil, its metabolite MPAG, may compete with drugs eliminated by renal tubular secretion which may increase plasma concentrations and/or adverse reactions associated with these drugs. Preventio n or Management Monitor for drug-related adverse reactions in patients with renal impairment. Examples Acyclovir, ganciclovir, probenecid, valacyclovir, valganciclovir Combination Oral Contraceptives Clinica l Impact Concomitant use with mycophenolate mofetil decreased the systemic exposure to levonorgestrel, but did not affect the systemic exposure to ethinylestradiol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may result in reduced combination oral contraceptive effectiveness. Preventio n or Management Use additional barrier contraceptive methods. Examples Cyclosporine A, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, bile acid sequestrants (cholestyramine), rifampin as well as aminoglycoside, cephalosporin, fluoroquinolone and penicillin classes of antimicrobials Drugs Modulating Glucuronidation Clinical Impact Concomitant use with drugs inducing glucuronidation decreases MPA systemic exposure, potentially reducing mycophenolate mofetil efficacy, while use with drugs inhibiting glucuronidation increases MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of mycophenolate mofetil related adverse reactions. ( 7 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Mycophenolate mofetil Table 7 Drug Interactions with Mycophenolate Mofetil that Affect Mycophenolic Acid (MPA) Exposure Antacids with Magnesium or Aluminum Hydroxide Clinical Impact Concomitant use with an antacid containing magnesium or aluminum hydroxide decreases MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy. Proton Pump Inhibitors (PPIs) Clinical Impact Concomitant use with PPIs decreases MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy. Examples Lansoprazole, pantoprazole Drugs that Interfere with Enterohepatic Recirculation Clinical Impact Concomitant use with drugs that directly interfere with enterohepatic recirculation, or indirectly interfere with enterohepatic recirculation by altering the gastrointestinal flora, can decrease MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy. Examples Cyclosporine A, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, bile acid sequestrants (cholestyramine), rifampin as well as aminoglycoside, cephalosporin, fluoroquinolone and penicillin classes of antimicrobials. Drugs Modulating Glucuronidation Clinical Impact Concomitant use with drugs inducing glucuronidation decreases MPA systemic exposure, potentially reducing mycophenolate mofetil efficacy, while use with drugs inhibiting glucuronidation increases MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may increase the risk of mycophenolate mofetil related adverse reactions. Calcium Free Phosphate Binders Clinical Impact Concomitant use with calcium free phosphate binders decrease MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy. Examples Acyclovir, ganciclovir, probenecid, valacyclovir, valganciclovir Combination Oral Contraceptives Clinical Impact Concomitant use with mycophenolate mofetil decreased the systemic exposure to levonorgestrel, but did not affect the systemic exposure to ethinylestradiol [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may result in reduced combination oral contraceptive effectiveness. ( 7 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Mycophenolate Mofetil Table 7. Drug Interactions with Mycophenolate Mofetil that Affect Mycophenolic Acid (MPA) Exposure Antacids with Magnesium or Aluminum Hydroxide Clinical Impact Concomitant use with an antacid containing magnesium or aluminum hydroxide decreases MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )], which may reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy. Proton Pump Inhibitors (PPIs) Clinical Impact Concomitant use with PPIs decreases MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )], which may reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy Prevention or Management Monitor patients for alterations in efficacy when PPIs are co-administered with mycophenolate mofetil Examples Lansoprazole, pantoprazole Drugs that Interfere with Enterohepatic Recirculation Clinical Impact Concomitant use with drugs that directly interfere with enterohepatic recirculation, or indirectly interfere with enterohepatic recirculation by altering the gastrointestinal flora, can decrease MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )], which may reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy. Prevention or Management Monitor patients for alterations in efficacy or mycophenolate mofetil related adverse reactions when these drugs are co-administered with mycophenolate mofetil Examples Cyclosporine A, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, bile acid sequestrants (cholestyramine), rifampin as well as aminoglycoside, cephalosporin, fluoroquinolone and penicillin classes of antimicrobials Drugs Modulating Glucuronidation Clinical Impact Concomitant use with drugs inducing glucuronidation decreases MPA systemic exposure, potentially reducing mycophenolate mofetil efficacy, while use with drugs inhibiting glucuronidation increases MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )], which may increase the risk of mycophenolate mofetil related adverse reactions. Prevention or Management Monitor patients for alterations in efficacy or mycophenolate mofetil related adverse reactions when these drugs are co-administered with mycophenolate mofetil Examples Telmisartan (induces glucuronidation); isavuconazole (inhibits glucuronidation). Calcium Free Phosphate Binders Clinical Impact Concomitant use with calcium free phosphate binders decrease MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )], which may reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy. Prevention or Management Administer calcium free phosphate binders at least 2 hours after mycophenolate mofetil Examples Sevelamer 7.2 Effect of Mycophenolate Mofetil on Other Drugs Table 8. Drug Interactions with Mycophenolate Mofetil that Affect Other Drugs Drugs that Undergo Renal Tubular Secretion Clinical Impact When concomitantly used with mycophenolate mofetil, its metabolite MPAG, may compete with drugs eliminated by renal tubular secretion which may increase plasma concentrations and/or adverse reactions associated with these drugs Prevention or Management Monitor for drug-related adverse reactions in patients with renal impairment Examples Acyclovir, ganciclovir, probenecid, valacyclovir, valganciclovir Combination Oral Contraceptives Clinical Impact Concomitant use with mycophenolate mofetil decreased the systemic exposure to levonorgestrel, but did not affect the systemic exposure to ethinylestradiol [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )], which may result in reduced combination oral contraceptive effectiveness. Proton Pump Inhibitors (PPIs) Clinical Impact Concomitant use with PPIs decreases MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] , which may reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy. Examples Lansoprazole, pantoprazole Drugs that Interfere with Enterohepatic Recirculation Clinical Impact Concomitant use with drugs that directly interfere with enterohepatic recirculation, or indirectly interfere with enterohepatic recirculation by altering the gastrointestinal flora, can decrease MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] , which may reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy. Examples Cyclosporine A, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, bile acid sequestrants (cholestyramine), rifampin as well as aminoglycoside, cephalosporin, fluoroquinolone and penicillin classes of antimicrobials Drugs Modulating Glucuronidation Clinical Impact Concomitant use with drugs inducing glucuronidation decreases MPA systemic exposure, potentially reducing mycophenolate mofetil efficacy, while use with drugs inhibiting glucuronidation increases MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] , which may increase the risk of mycophenolate mofetil related adverse reactions. Calcium Free Phosphate Binders Clinical Impact Concomitant use with calcium free phosphate binders decrease MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] , which may reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy. Examples Acyclovir, ganciclovir, probenecid, valacyclovir, valganciclovir Combination Oral Contraceptives Clinical Impact Concomitant use with mycophenolate mofetil decreased the systemic exposure to levonorgestrel, but did not affect the systemic exposure to ethinylestradiol [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] , which may result in reduced combination oral contraceptive effectiveness. (7.1) Mycophenolate mofetil may reduce effectiveness of oral contraceptives. (7.2) See FPI for other important drug interactions. (7) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Mycophenolate Mofetil Table 7 Drug Interactions with Mycophenolate Mofetil that Affect Mycophenolic Acid (MPA) Exposure Antacids with Magnesium or Aluminum Hydroxide Clinical Impact Concomitant use with an antacid containing magnesium or aluminum hydroxide decreases MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy. (7) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Mycophenolate Mofetil Table 7 Drug Interactions with Mycophenolate Mofetil that Affect Mycophenolic Acid (MPA) Exposure Antacids with Magnesium or Aluminum Hydroxide Clinical Impact Concomitant use with an antacid containing magnesium or aluminum hydroxide decreases MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] , which may reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy. Proton Pump Inhibitors (PPIs) Clinical Impact Concomitant use with PPIs decreases MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] , which may reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy. Examples Lansoprazole, pantoprazole Drugs that Interfere with Enterohepatic Recirculation Clinical Impact Concomitant use with drugs that directly interfere with enterohepatic recirculation, or indirectly interfere with enterohepatic recirculation by altering the gastrointestinal flora, can decrease MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] , which may reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy. Examples Cyclosporine A, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, bile acid sequestrants (cholestyramine), rifampin as well as aminoglycoside, cephalosporin, fluoroquinolone and penicillin classes of antimicrobials Drugs Modulating Glucuronidation Clinical Impact Concomitant use with drugs inducing glucuronidation decreases MPA systemic exposure, potentially reducing mycophenolate mofetil efficacy, while use with drugs inhibiting glucuronidation increases MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] , which may increase the risk of mycophenolate mofetil related adverse reactions. Calcium Free Phosphate Binders Clinical Impact Concomitant use with calcium free phosphate binders decrease MPA systemic exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] , which may reduce mycophenolate mofetil efficacy. Examples Acyclovir, ganciclovir, probenecid, valacyclovir, valganciclovir Combination Oral Contraceptives Clinical Impact Concomitant use with mycophenolate mofetil decreased the systemic exposure to levonorgestrel, but did not affect the systemic exposure to ethinylestradiol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] , which may result in reduced combination oral contraceptive effectiveness.

=== NABUMETONE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of nabumetone tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use nabumetone tablets. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS ). Nabumetone tablets are indicated for relief of signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of nabumetone tablets, USP and other treatment options before deciding to use nabumetone tablets. Nabumetone tablets, USP are indicated for relief of signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of nabumetone tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use nabumetone tablets. Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS ). After observing the response to initial therapy with nabumetone tablets, the dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient's needs. Osteoarthritis and Rheumatoid Arthritis The recommended starting dose is 1,000 mg taken as a single dose with or without food. Some patients may obtain more symptomatic relief from 1,500 mg to 2,000 mg per day. Nabumetone tablets can be given in either a single or twice-daily dose. Dosages greater than 2,000 mg per day have not been studied. The lowest effective dose should be used for chronic treatment (see WARNINGS , Renal Effects ). Patients weighing under 50 kg may be less likely to require dosages beyond 1,000 mg; therefore, after observing the response to initial therapy, the dose should be adjusted to meet individual patients' requirements. After observing the response to initial therapy with nabumetone tablets, the dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient’s needs. Osteoarthritis and Rheumatoid Arthritis: The recommended starting dose is 1,000 mg taken as a single dose with or without food. Nabumetone can be given in either a single or twice-daily dose. Patients weighing under 50 kg may be less likely to require dosages beyond 1,000 mg; therefore, after observing the response to initial therapy, the dose should be adjusted to meet individual patients’ requirements. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of nabumetone tablets and other treatment options before deciding to use nabumetone. The lowest effective dose should be used for chronic treatment (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ).
Warnings: WARNINGS Cardiovascular Effects Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, including myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke, which can be fatal. Based on available data, it is unclear that the risk for CV thrombotic events is similar for all NSAIDs. The relative increase in serious CV thrombotic events over baseline conferred by NSAID use appears to be similar in those with and without known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease. However, patients with known CV disease or risk factors had a higher absolute incidence of excess serious CV thrombotic events, due to their increased baseline rate. Some observational studies found that this increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events began as early as the first weeks of treatment. The increase in CV thrombotic risk has been observed most consistently at higher doses. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in NSAID-treated patients, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, throughout the entire treatment course, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Patients should be informed about the symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as nabumetone, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events [ see Warnings ]. Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery Two large, controlled clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10–14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. NSAIDs are contraindicated in the setting of CABG [ see Contraindications ]. Post-MI Patients Observational studies conducted in the Danish National Registry have demonstrated that patients treated with NSAIDs in the post-MI period were at increased risk of reinfarction, CV-related death, and all-cause mortality beginning in the first week of treatment. In this same cohort, the incidence of death in the first year post MI was 20 per 100 person years in NSAID-treated patients compared to 12 per 100 person years in non-NSAID exposed patients. Although the absolute rate of death declined somewhat after the first year post-MI, the increased relative risk of death in NSAID users persisted over at least the next four years of follow-up. Avoid the use of nabumetone tablets in patients with a recent MI unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If nabumetone tablets are used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia. Hypertension NSAIDs, including nabumetone tablets, can lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of preexisting hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Patients taking thiazides or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs. NSAIDs, including nabumetone tablets, should be used with caution in patients with hypertension. Blood pressure (BP) should be monitored closely during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy. Heart Failure and Edema The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists’ Collaboration meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately two-fold increase in hospitalizations for heart failure in COX-2 selective-treated patients and nonselective NSAID-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. In a Danish National Registry study of patients with heart failure, NSAID use increased the risk of MI, hospitalization for heart failure, and death. Additionally, fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients treated with NSAIDs. Use of nabumetone may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions [e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs)] [ see Drug Interactions ]. Avoid the use of nabumetone tablets in patients with severe heart failure unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure. If nabumetone tablets are used in patients with severe heart failure, monitor patients for signs of worsening heart failure. Gastrointestinal Effects – Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation NSAIDs, including nabumetone tablets, can cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDs. Only 1 in 5 patients, who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy, is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occur in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3 to 6 months, and in about 2 to 4% of patients treated for 1 year. These trends continue with longer duration of use, increasing the likelihood of developing a serious GI event at some time during the course of therapy. However, even short-term therapy is not without risk. In controlled clinical trials involving 1,677 patients treated with nabumetone (1,140 followed for 1 year and 927 for 2 years), the cumulative incidence of peptic ulcers was 0.3% (95% CI; 0%, 0.6%) at 3 to 6 months, 0.5% (95% CI; 0.1%, 0.9%) at 1 year and 0.8% (95% CI; 0.3%, 1.3%) at 2 years. In patients with active peptic ulcer, physicians must weigh the benefits of therapy with Nabumetone against possible hazards, institute an appropriate ulcer treatment regimen and monitor the patients progress carefully. NSAIDs should be prescribed with extreme caution in those with a prior history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding. Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or gastrointestinal bleeding who use NSAIDs have a greater than 10 fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients with neither of these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk for GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include concomitant use of oral corticosteroids or anticoagulants, longer duration of NSAID therapy, smoking, use of alcohol, older age, and poor general health status. Most spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in elderly or debilitated patients and therefore, special care should be taken in treating this population. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse GI event in patients treated with an NSAID, the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest possible duration. Patients and physicians should remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during NSAID therapy and promptly initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious GI adverse event is suspected. This should include discontinuation of the NSAID until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. For high risk patients, alternate therapies that do not involve NSAIDs should be considered. Renal Effects Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of an NSAID results in a dose-dependent decrease in prostaglandin synthesis and, secondarily, in a reduction of renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics, and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. Advanced Renal Disease No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of nabumetone tablets in patients with advanced renal disease. Therefore, treatment with nabumetone tablets is not recommended in these patients with advanced renal disease. If nabumetone tablet therapy must be initiated, close monitoring of the patient's renal function is advisable. Because nabumetone undergoes extensive hepatic metabolism, no adjustment of the dosage of nabumetone is generally necessary in patients with mild renal insufficiency; however, as with all NSAIDs, patients with impaired renal function should be monitored more closely than patients with normal renal function (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics , Renal Insufficiency ). In subjects with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance 30 to 49 mL/min) there is a 50% increase in unbound plasma 6MNA and dose adjustment may be warranted. The oxidized and conjugated metabolites of 6MNA are eliminated primarily by the kidneys. Anaphylactoid Reactions As with other NSAIDs, anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without known prior exposure to nabumetone tablets. Nabumetone tablets should not be given to patients with the aspirin triad. This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS , General , Preexisting Asthma ). Emergency help should be sought in cases where an anaphylactoid reaction occurs. Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including nabumetone tablets, can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. These serious events may occur without warning. Patients should be informed about the signs and symptoms of serious skin manifestations and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) has been reported in patients taking NSAIDs such as nabumetone tablets. Some of these events have been fatal or life-threatening. DRESS typically, although not exclusively, presents with fever, rash, lymphadenopathy, and/or facial swelling. Other clinical manifestations may include hepatitis, nephritis, hematological abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis. Sometimes symptoms of DRESS may resemble an acute viral infection. Eosinophilia is often present. Because this disorder is variable in its presentation, other organ systems not noted here may be involved. It is important to note that early manifestations of hypersensitivity, such as fever or lymphadenopathy, may be present even though rash is not evident. If such signs or symptoms are present, discontinue nabumetone tablets and evaluate the patient immediately. Fetal Toxicity Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus : Avoid use of NSAIDs, including nabumetone tablets, in pregnant women at about 30 weeks gestation and later. NSAIDs including nabumetone tablets, increase the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus at approximately this gestational age. Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment : Use of NSAIDs, including nabumetone tablets, at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy may cause fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios and, in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. These adverse outcomes are seen, on average, after days to weeks of treatment, although oligohydramnios has been infrequently reported as soon as 48 hours after NSAID initiation. Oligohydramnios is often, but not always, reversible with treatment discontinuation. Complications of prolonged oligohydramnios may, for example, include limb contractures and delayed lung maturation. In some postmarketing cases of impaired neonatal renal function, invasive procedures such as exchange transfusion or dialysis were required. If NSAID treatment is necessary between about 20 weeks and 30 weeks gestation, limit nabumetone tablets use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. Consider ultrasound monitoring of amniotic fluid if nabumetone tablets treatment extends beyond 48 hours. Discontinue nabumetone tablets if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice (see PRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy ) . The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as nabumetone, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events [see Warnings ]. NSAIDs are contraindicated in the setting of CABG [see Contraindications ]. Hypertension: NSAIDs, including nabumetone tablets, can lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of preexisting hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. NSAIDs, including nabumetone, should be used with caution in patients with hypertension. Use of nabumetone may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions [e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs)] [see Drug Interactions ]. Gastrointestinal Effects―Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation: NSAIDs, including nabumetone tablets, can cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. In patients with active peptic ulcer, physicians must weigh the benefits of therapy with nabumetone against possible hazards, institute an appropriate ulcer treatment regimen and monitor the patients’ progress carefully. Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or gastrointestinal bleeding who use NSAIDs have a greater than 10-fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients with neither of these risk factors. Renal Effects: Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury. Advanced Renal Disease: No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of nabumetone tablets in patients with advanced renal disease. If nabumetone tablets therapy must be initiated, close monitoring of the patient’s renal function is advisable. Anaphylactoid Reactions: As with other NSAIDs, anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without known prior exposure to nabumetone tablets. This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS , General, Preexisting Asthma ). Skin Reactions: NSAIDs, including nabumetone tablets, can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Fetal Toxicity Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus: Avoid use of NSAIDs, including nabumetone tablets, in pregnant women at about 30 weeks gestation and later. Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment: Use of NSAIDs, including nabumetone tablets, at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy may cause fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios and, in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. Discontinue nabumetone tablets if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice [ see PRECAUTIONS ; Pregnancy ]. Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery Two large, controlled clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10 to 14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. Gastrointestinal Effects, Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation: NSAIDs, including nabumetone tablets, can cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. Because nabumetone undergoes extensive hepatic metabolism, no adjustment of the dosage of nabumetone is generally necessary in patients with mild renal insufficiency; however, as with all NSAIDs, patients with impaired renal function should be monitored more closely than patients with normal renal function (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics, Renal Insufficiency ). This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps, or who exhibit severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS, General, Preexisting Asthma ). Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including nabumetone can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. NSAIDs can also cause fixed drug eruption (FDE). FDE may present as a more severe variant known as generalized bullous fixed drug eruption (GBFDE), which can be life-threatening. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions, and to discontinue the use of NABUMETONE TABLET at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. NABUMETONE TABLET is contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) . Drug Rash with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) has been reported in patients taking NSAIDs such as nabumetone tablets. Discontinue nabumetone tablets if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice [see PRECAUTIONS; Pregnancy ]. WARNINGS Cardiovascular Effects Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events: Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, including myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke, which can be fatal. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in NSAID-treated patients, use the lowesteffective dose for the shortest duration possible. Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) SurgeryTwo large, controlled clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10–14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarctionand stroke. Although the absolute rate of death declined somewhat after the first year post-MI, the increased relative risk of death in NSAID users persisted over at least the next four years of f ollow-up. Hypertension: NSAIDs, including nabumetone, can lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of preexisting hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Heart Failure and Edema The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists’ Collaboration meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately two-fold increase in hospitalizations for heart failure in COX-2 selective-treated patients and nonselective NSAID-treated patients compared toplacebo-treated patients. Gastrointestinal Effects ― Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation: NSAIDs, including nabumetone, can cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is typically followed by recovery to the pretreatment state. Advanced Renal Disease: No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of nabumetone in patients with advanced renal disease. Therefore, treatment with nabumetone is not recommended in these patients with advanced renal disease. If nabumetone therapy must be initiated, close monitoring of the patient’s renal function is advisable. Anaphylactoid Reactions: As with other NSAIDs, anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without known prior exposure to nabumetone. Nabumetone should not be given to patients with the aspirin triad. Skin Reactions: NSAIDs, including nabumetone, can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Pregnancy: In late pregnancy, as with other NSAIDs, nabumetone should be avoided because it may cause premature closure of the ductus arteriosus. WARNINGS Cardiovascular Effects Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to 3 years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, myocardial infarction, and stroke, which can be fatal. All NSAIDs, both COX-2 selective and nonselective, may have a similar risk. Patients with known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease may be at greater risk. To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in patients treated with an NSAID, the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Patients should be informed about the signs and/or symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID does increase the risk of serious GI events (see WARNINGS, Gastrointestinal Effects – Risk of Ulceration, Bleeding, and Perforation ). Two large, controlled clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10 to 14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Congestive Heart Failure and Edema Fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients taking NSAIDs. Nabumetone tablets should be used with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure. In patients with active peptic ulcer, physicians must weigh the benefits of therapy with Nabumetone against possible hazards, institute an appropriate ulcer treatment regimen and monitor the patients' progress carefully. Pregnancy In late pregnancy, as with other NSAIDs, nabumetone tablets should be avoided because it may cause premature closure of the ductus arteriosus. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as Nabumetone, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events [see WARNINGS ] . NSAIDs are contraindicated in the setting of CABG [see Contraindications ] . Use of Nabumetone may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions [e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs)] [see Drug Interactions ] . Serious Skin Reactions: NSAIDs, including nabumetone, can cause serious skin adverse events such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Fetal Toxicit y Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus: Avoid use of NSAIDs, including nabumetone tablets, in pregnant women at about 30 weeks gestation and later. Discontinue nabumetone tablets if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice [see PRECAUTIONS; Pregnancy].
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Nabumetone tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to nabumetone or product excipients. Nabumetone tablets should not be given to patients who have experienced asthma, urticaria, or allergic-type reactions after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs. Severe, rarely fatal, anaphylactic-like reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients (see WARNINGS , Anaphylactoid Reactions and PRECAUTIONS , General , Preexisting Asthma ). • In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [see Warnings ]. CONTRAINDICATIONS Nabumetone tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to nabumetone or its excipients. Severe, rarely fatal, anaphylactic-like reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients (see WARNINGS , Anaphylactoid Reactions , and PRECAUTIONS , General , Preexisting Asthma ). Nabumetone tablets are contraindicated in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [see Warnings ]. Severe, rarely fatal, anaphylactic-like reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients (see WARNINGS, Anaphylactoid Reactions , and PRECAUTIONS, General, Preexisting Asthma ). Nabumetone tablets are contraindicated in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery (see WARNINGS ). In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [see Warnings ]. Severe, rarely fatal, anaphylactic-like reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients (see WARNINGS, Anaphylactoid Reactions and PRECAUTIONS, General, Preexisting Asthma ). Nabumetone tablets are contraindicated for the treatment of peri-operative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery (see WARNINGS ). • In the setting of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery [see Warnings ] Severe, rarely fatal, anaphylactic-like reactions to NSAIDs have been reported in such patients (see WARNINGS , Anaphylactoid Reactions, and PRECAUTIONS , General , Preexisting Asthma ).
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions ACE-Inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin When nabumetone tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free nabumetone is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of nabumetone tablets and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Diuretics Clinical studies, as well as postmarketing observations, have shown that nabumetone tablets can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS , Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. In vitro studies have shown that, because of its affinity for protein, 6MNA may displace other protein-bound drugs from their binding site. Caution should be exercised when administering nabumetone tablets with warfarin since interactions have been seen with other NSAIDs. Concomitant administration of an aluminum-containing antacid had no significant effect on the bioavailability of 6MNA. When administered with food or milk, there is more rapid absorption; however, the total amount of 6MNA in the plasma is unchanged (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics ). Drug Interactions: ACE-inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin: When nabumetone tablets are administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free nabumetone is not altered. Diuretics: Clinical studies, as well as post marketing observations, have shown that nabumetone can reduce the natriuretic effect of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. Lithium: NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. Methotrexate: NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. Warfarin: The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone. Caution should be exercised when administering nabumetone with warfarin since interactions have been seen with other NSAIDs. Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors: Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see WARNINGS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. When administered with food or milk, there is more rapid absorption; however, the total amount of 6MNA in the plasma is unchanged (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics ). Aspirin: When nabumetone is administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free nabumetone is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of nabumetone and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS, Renal Effects ), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium : NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis: In 2-year studies conducted in mice and rats, nabumetone had no statistically significant tumorigenic effect. Nabumetone did not show mutagenic potential in the Ames test and mouse micronucleus test in vivo ; however, nabumetone and 6MNA-treated lymphocytes in culture showed chromosomal aberrations at 80 mcg/mL and higher concentrations (equal to the average human exposure to nabumetone at the maximum recommended dose). Impairment of Fertility: Nabumetone did not impair fertility of male or female rats treated orally at doses of 320 mg/kg/day (1,888 mg/m 2 ) before mating. Pregnancy: Risk Summary Use of NSAIDs, including nabumetone tablets, can cause premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus and fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios and, in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. Because of these risks, limit dose and duration of nabumetone tablets use between about 20 and 30 weeks of gestation and avoid nabumetone tablets use at about 30 weeks of gestation and later in pregnancy [see WARNINGS; Fetal Toxicity]. Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus Use of NSAIDs, including nabumetone tablets, at about 30 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy increases the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus. Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment Use of NSAIDs at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy has been associated with cases of fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios, and in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. Data from observational studies regarding other potential embryofetal risks of NSAID use in women in the first or second trimesters of pregnancy are inconclusive. In animal reproduction studies conducted in rats and rabbits have not demonstrated evidence of developmental abnormalities. However, animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response. There are no adequate, wellcontrolled studies in pregnant women. Nabumetone should be used in pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Based on animal data, prostaglandins have been shown to have an important role in endometrial vascular permeability, blastocyst implantation, and decidualization. In animal studies, administration of prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors such as nabumetone, resulted in increased pre- and post-implantation loss. Prostaglandins also have been shown to have an important role in fetal kidney development. In published animal studies, prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors have been reported to impair kidney development when administered at clinically relevant doses. The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population(s) is unknown. All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect, loss, or other adverse outcomes. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2-4% and 15-20%, respectively. Clinical Considerations Fetal/Neonatal Adverse Reactions Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus: Avoid use of NSAIDs in women at about 30 weeks gestation and later in pregnancy, because NSAIDs, including nabumetone tablets, can cause premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus (see WARNINGS; Fetal Toxicity). Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment If an NSAID is necessary at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy, limit the use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. If nabumetone tablets treatment extends beyond 48 hours, consider monitoring with ultrasound for oligohydramnios. If oligohydramnios occurs, discontinue nabumetone tablets and follow up according to clinical practice (see WARNINGS; Fetal Toxicity). Data Human Data Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus: Published literature reports that the use of NSAIDs at about 30 weeks of gestation and later in pregnancy may cause premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus. Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment: Published studies and postmarketing reports describe maternal NSAID use at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy associated with fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios, and in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. These adverse outcomes are seen, on average, after days to weeks of treatment, although oligohydramnios has been infrequently reported as soon as 48 hours after NSAID initiation. In many cases, but not all, the decrease in amniotic fluid was transient and reversible with cessation of the drug. There have been a limited number of case reports of maternal NSAID use and neonatal renal dysfunction without oligohydramnios, some of which were irreversible. Some cases of neonatal renal dysfunction required treatment with invasive procedures, such as exchange transfusion or dialysis. Methodological limitations of these postmarketing studies and reports include lack of a control group; limited information regarding dose, duration, and timing of drug exposure; and concomitant use of other medications. These limitations preclude establishing a reliable estimate of the risk of adverse fetal and neonatal outcomes with maternal NSAID use. Because the published safety data on neonatal outcomes involved mostly preterm infants, the generalizability of certain reported risks to the full-term infant exposed to NSAIDs through maternal use is uncertain. Animal Data In animal reproduction studies conducted in rats and rabbits have not demonstrated evidence of developmental abnormalities. There are no adequate, well-controlled studies in pregnant women.

=== ALUMINUM HYDROXIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purposes Antacid Antigas Active ingredients (in each 5 mL = 1 teaspoonful) Purpose Aluminum hydroxide (equiv. to dried gel, USP) 200 mg Antacid Magnesium hydroxide 200 mg Antacid Simethicone 20 mg Antigas Drug Facts 1,200-1,200-120 mg/30 mL Active ingredients (in each 30 mL) Purpose Aluminum hydroxide 1,200 mg (equivalent to dried gel, USP)..............Antacid Magnesium hydroxide 1,200 mg......................................................Antacid Simethicone 120 mg......................................................................Antigas 2,400-2,400-240 mg/30 mL Active ingredient (in each 30 mL) Purpose Aluminum hydroxide 2,400 mg (equivalent to dried gel, USP)..............Antacid Magnesium hydroxide 2,400 mg......................................................Antacid Simethicone 240 mg......................................................................Antigas Active ingredients (in each 10 mL dose) Purposes Aluminum hydroxide (equivalent to dried gel, USP), 800 mg Antacid Magnesium hydroxide, 800 mg Antacid Simethicone, 80 mg Anti-gas Purpose Antacid Antacid PURPOSE Antacid Antacid Antigas
Indications: Uses relieves heartburn sour stomach acid indigestion the symptoms referred to as gas Uses for the relief of: • acid indigestion • heartburn • sour stomach • upset stomach due to these symptoms • pressure and bloating commonly referred to as gas Uses relieves • heartburn • sour stomach • acid indigestion • the symptoms referred to as gas Use relieves: heartburn acid indigestion sour stomach upset stomach due to these symptoms pressure and bloating commonly referred to as gas overindulgence in food & drink Uses relieves acid indigestion heartburn sour stomach upset stomach associated with these symptoms USE(S) relieves: acid indigestion heartburn sour stomach upset stomach and gas associated with these symptoms Uses for the relief of: acid indigestion heartburn sour stomach upset stomach due to these symptoms pressure and bloating commonly referred to as gas
Dosage: Directions shake well before use adults and children 12 years of age and older: take 2 to 4 teaspoonfuls between meals, at bedtime, or as directed by a doctor do not take more than 16 teaspoonfuls in any 24 hour period or use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions shake well before use adults and children 12 years and older: take 2 to 4 teaspoonfuls between meals, at bedtime, or as directed by a doctor do not take more than 24 teaspoonfuls in 24 hours or use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions • shake well before using • do not take more than 16 teaspoonfuls in 24 hours or use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks adults and children 12 years and older take 2 to 4 teaspoonfuls four times a day or as directed by a physician children under 12 years consult a physician Directions • shake well before use 1,200-1,200-120 mg/30 mL age dose Adults and children 12 years and older 30mL, not more than 120 mL in 24 hrs Children under 6 years of age Do not use unless directed by a doctor 2,400-2,400-240 mg/30 mL age dose Adults and children 12 years and older 30mL, not more than 60 mL in 24 hrs Children under 6 years of age Do not use unless directed by a doctor Directions adults and children 12 years and over: Take one 10 mL dose as needed or as directed by a doctor do not take more than 60 mL (6 doses) in any 24-hour period do not use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions chew 2 to 4 tablets four times a day or as directed by a doctor take after meals and at bedtime or as needed for best results follow by a half glass of water or other liquid DO NOT SWALLOW TABLETS WHOLE DIRECTIONS shake well before use mL = milliliter adults and children 12 years and older: take 10 mL to 20 mL four times a day, or as directed by a doctor children under 12 years: consult a doctor DIRECTIONS shake well before use adults and children 12 years and older: take 10 mL - 20 mL two times a day, or as directed by a doctor children under 12 years: consult a doctor mL = milliliter DIRECTIONS shake well before use adults and children 12 years and older: take 10 - 20 mL four times a day, or as directed by a doctor children under 12 years: consult a doctor mL = milliliter Directions shake well before using do not take more than 16 teaspoonfuls in 24 hours or use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks adults and children 12 years and older take 2 to 4 teaspoonfuls four times a day or as directed by a physician children under 12 years consult a physician
Warnings: Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have kidney disease a magnesium-restricted diet Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug. Antacids may interact with certain prescription drugs. Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms last more than 2 weeks If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. Warnings Do not take more than 16 teaspoonfuls in a 24-hour period or use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks except under the advice and supervision of a physician. Ask a doctor before use if you have • kidney disease • a magnesium-restricted diet Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug. Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms last more than 2 weeks. Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • kidney disease • a magnesium restricted diet Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking another medication. This product may interact with certain medications. Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have kidney disease or magnesium restricted diet. Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a poison control center right away. Warnings Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug. Antacids may interact with certain prescription drugs If you are on a sodium-restricted diet When using this product do not take more than 16 tablets in 24 hours do not use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately at 1-800-222-1222. WARNINGS Do not take more than 80 mL in a 24-hour period, or use the maximum dosage of this product for more than 2 weeks, except under the advice and supervision of a doctor. WARNINGS Do not take more than 60 mL in a 24-hour period, or use the maximum dosage of this product for more than 2 weeks, except under the advice and supervision of a doctor. Ask a doctor before use if you have kidney disease a magnesium-restricted diet Ask a doctor or pharmacist b efore use if you are presently taking a prescription drug.

=== AMIODARONE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pacerone is indicated for the treatment of documented, life-threatening recurrent ventricular fibrillation and life-threatening recurrent hemodynamically unstable tachycardia in adults who have not responded to adequate doses of other available antiarrhythmics or when alternative agents cannot be tolerated. Pacerone is an antiarrhythmic indicated for: Recurrent ventricular fibrillation. ( 1 ) Recurrent hemodynamically unstable ventricular tachycardia. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amiodarone injection is indicated for initiation of treatment and prophylaxis of frequently recurring ventricular fibrillation (VF) and hemodynamically unstable ventricular tachycardia (VT) in patients refractory to other therapy. Amiodarone also can be used to treat patients with VT/VF for whom oral amiodarone is indicated, but who are unable to take oral medication. During or after treatment with amiodarone, patients may be transferred to oral amiodarone therapy [see Dosage and Administration (2) ] . Use amiodarone for acute treatment until the patient's ventricular arrhythmias are stabilized. Most patients will require this therapy for 48 to 96 hours, but amiodarone may be safely administered for longer periods if necessary. Amiodarone hydrochloride injection is an antiarrhythmic agent indicated for initiation of treatment and prophylaxis of frequently recurring ventricular fibrillation (VF) and hemodynamically unstable ventricular tachycardia (VT) in patients refractory to other therapy. 1 Indications and Usage Amiodarone Hydrochloride Injection, USP is indicated for initiation of treatment and prophylaxis of frequently recurring ventricular fibrillation (VF) and hemodynamically unstable ventricular tachycardia (VT) in patients refractory to other therapy. Amiodarone Hydrochloride Injection, USP also can be used to treat patients with VT/VF for whom oral amiodarone is indicated, but who are unable to take oral medication. During or after treatment with Amiodarone Hydrochloride Injection, USP patients may be transferred to oral amiodarone therapy [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. Use Amiodarone Hydrochloride Injection, USP for acute treatment until the patient's ventricular arrhythmias are stabilized. Most patients will require this therapy for 48 to 96 hours, but Amiodarone Hydrochloride Injection may be safely administered for longer periods if necessary. Amiodarone Hydrochloride Injection, USP is an antiarrhythmic agent indicated for initiation of treatment and prophylaxis of frequently recurring ventricular fibrillation (VF) and hemodynamically unstable ventricular tachycardia (VT) in patients refractory to other therapy. (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amiodarone hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of documented, life-threatening recurrent ventricular fibrillation and life-threatening recurrent hemodynamically unstable tachycardia in adults who have not responded to adequate doses of other available antiarrhythmics or when alternative agents cannot be tolerated. Amiodarone hydrochloride is an antiarrhythmic indicated for: • Recurrent ventricular fibrillation. (1) • Recurrent hemodynamically unstable ventricular tachycardia. Amiodarone hydrochloride tablets are an antiarrhythmic indicated for: Recurrent ventricular fibrillation. During or after treatment with amiodarone, patients may be transferred to oral amiodarone therapy [see Dosage and Administration (2)] . Amiodarone injection is an antiarrhythmic agent indicated for initiation of treatment and prophylaxis of frequently recurring ventricular fibrillation (VF) and hemodynamically unstable ventricular tachycardia (VT) in patients refractory to other therapy. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amiodarone Hydrochloride Tablets is indicated for the treatment of documented, life-threatening recurrent ventricular fibrillation and life-threatening recurrent hemodynamically unstable tachycardia in adults who have not responded to adequate doses of other available antiarrhythmics or when alternative agents cannot be tolerated. Amiodarone Hydrochloride Tablets is an antiarrhythmic indicated for: Recurrent ventricular fibrillation. Amiodarone hydrochloride tablets are an antiarrhythmic indicated for: • Recurrent ventricular fibrillation. ( 1 ) • Recurrent hemodynamically unstable ventricular tachycardia. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amiodarone hydrochloride injection is indicated for initiation of treatment and prophylaxis of frequently recurring ventricular fibrillation (VF) and hemodynamically unstable ventricular tachycardia (VT) in patients refractory to other therapy.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage must be individualized based on severity of arrhythmia and response. Use the lowest effective dose. Obtain baseline chest x-ray, pulmonary function tests, thyroid function tests, and liver aminotransferases. Correct hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, and hypocalcemia before initiating treatment. Initiate treatment with a loading dose of 800 to 1600 mg/day until initial therapeutic response occurs (usually 1 to 3 weeks). Once adequate arrhythmia control is achieved, or if side effects become prominent, reduce Pacerone tablets dose to 600 to 800 mg/day for one month and then to the maintenance dose, usually 400 mg/day. ( 2 ) Recommended Dosage: Initiate treatment with a loading dose of 800 to 1600 mg/day until initial therapeutic response occurs (usually 1 to 3 weeks). Once adequate arrhythmia control is achieved, or if side effects become prominent, reduce Pacerone tablet dose to 600 to 800 mg/day for one month and then to the maintenance dose, usually 400 mg/day. Administration: Administer Pacerone tablets consistently with regard to meals [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Administration of Pacerone tablets in divided doses with meals is suggested for total daily doses of 1000 mg or higher, or when gastrointestinal intolerance occurs. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Amiodarone shows considerable interindividual variation in response. Although a starting dose adequate to suppress life-threatening arrhythmias is needed, close monitoring with adjustment of dose is essential. The recommended starting dose of amiodarone is about 1000 mg over the first 24 hours of therapy, delivered by the following infusion regimen: Table 1: AMIODARONE DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS: FIRST 24 HOURS Loading Infusions First Rapid: 150 mg over the FIRST 10 minutes (15 mg/min). Add 3 mL of amiodarone (150 mg) to 100 mL D 5 W (concentration = 1.5 mg/mL). Infuse 100 mL over 10 minutes. Followed by Slow: 360 mg over the NEXT 6 hours (1 mg/min). Add 18 mL of amiodarone (900 mg) to 500 mL D 5 W (concentration = 1.8 mg/mL). Infuse 200 mL at a rate of 0.556 mL/min. Maintenance Infusion 540 mg over the REMAINING 18 hours (0.5 mg/min). Decrease the rate of the slow loading infusion to 0.278 mL/min. After the first 24 hours, continue the maintenance infusion rate of 0.5 mg/min (720 mg per 24 hours) utilizing a concentration of 1 mg/mL to 6 mg/mL (Use a central venous catheter for amiodarone concentrations greater than 2 mg/mL). The rate of the maintenance infusion may be increased to achieve effective arrhythmia suppression. In the event of breakthrough episodes of VF or hemodynamically unstable VT, use 150 mg supplemental infusions of amiodarone (mixed in 100 mL of D 5 W and infused over 10 minutes to minimize the potential for hypotension). The first 24-hour dose may be individualized for each patient; however, in controlled clinical trials, mean daily doses above 2100 mg were associated with an increased risk of hypotension. Do not exceed an initial infusion rate of 30 mg/min. Based on the experience from clinical studies of intravenous amiodarone, a maintenance infusion of up to 0.5 mg/min can be continued for 2 to 3 weeks regardless of the patient's age, renal function, or left ventricular function. There has been limited experience in patients receiving intravenous amiodarone for longer than 3 weeks. The surface properties of solutions containing injectable amiodarone are altered such that the drop size may be reduced. This reduction may lead to underdosage of the patient by up to 30% if drop counter infusion sets are used. Amiodarone must be delivered by a volumetric infusion pump. Administer amiodarone, whenever possible, through a central venous catheter dedicated to that purpose. Use an in-line filter during administration. Intravenous amiodarone loading infusions at much higher concentrations and rates of infusion much faster than recommended have resulted in hepatocellular necrosis and acute renal failure, leading to death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Intravenous amiodarone concentrations greater than 3 mg/mL in D 5 W have been associated with a high incidence of peripheral vein phlebitis; however, concentrations of 2.5 mg/mL or less appear to be less irritating. Therefore, for infusions longer than 1 hour, do not exceed amiodarone concentrations of 2 mg/mL, unless a central venous catheter is used [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . Amiodarone infusions exceeding 2 hours must be administered in glass or polyolefin bottles containing D 5 W. Do not use evacuated glass containers for admixing, as incompatibility with a buffer in the container may cause precipitation. Amiodarone adsorbs to polyvinyl chloride (PVC) tubing, but all of the clinical experience has been with PVC tubing and the concentrations and rates of infusion provided in DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION reflect dosing in these studies. Amiodarone has been found to leach out plasticizers, including DEHP [di-(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate] from intravenous tubing (including PVC tubing). The degree of leaching increases when infusing amiodarone at higher concentrations and lower flow rates than provided in DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION. Polysorbate 80, a component of amiodarone hydrochloride injection, is also known to leach DEHP from PVC [see Description (11) ] . Amiodarone does not need to be protected from light during administration. NOTE: Inspect parenteral drug products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit – solution should be clear. CAUTION: Do not use plastic containers in series connections. Such use could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary container before the administration of the fluid from the secondary container is complete. Discard unused portion. Table 2: AMIODARONE HCl SOLUTION STABILITY Solution Concentration (mg/mL) Container Comments 5% Dextrose in Water (D 5 W) 1.0 - 6.0 PVC Physically compatible, with amiodarone loss < 10% at 2 hours at room temperature. 5% Dextrose in Water (D 5 W) 1.0 - 6.0 Polyolefin, Glass Physically compatible, with no amiodarone loss at 24 hours at room temperature. Admixture Incompatibility Amiodarone in D 5 W Injection forms precipitates with the drugs shown in Table 3. If coadministration of the following drugs is necessary, use separate intravenous administration lines. Table 3: Y-SITE INJECTION INCOMPATIBILITY D 5 W = Dextrose 5% in Sterile Water, NS = Normal Saline Drug Vehicle Amiodarone Concentration Aminophylline D 5 W; NS 4 mg/mL Amoxicillin Sodium-Clavulanic Acid unknown 12.5 mg/mL Ampicillin Sodium-Sulbactam Sodium NS 6 mg/mL Argatroban D 5 W 1.8 mg/mL Bivalirudin D 5 W 4 mg/mL Cefamandole Nafate D 5 W 4 mg/mL Cefazolin Sodium D 5 W 4 mg/mL Ceftazidime D 5 W 6 mg/mL Digoxin D 5 W 6 mg/mL Furosemide (10 mg/mL) D 5 W 6 mg/mL Mezlocillin Sodium D 5 W 4 mg/mL Heparin Sodium D 5 W -- Imipenem-Cilastin Sodium D 5 W 6 mg/mL Magnesium Sulfate (500 mg/mL) D 5 W 6 mg/mL Micafungin NS 4 mg/mL Piperacillin Sodium –Tazobactam Sodium D 5 W 6 mg/mL Potassium Phosphates D 5 W 6 mg/mL Sodium Bicarbonate D 5 W 3 mg/mL Sodium Nitroprusside D 5 W 1.5, 6 and 15 mg/mL Sodium Phosphates D 5 W 6 mg/mL Intravenous to Oral Transition Patients whose arrhythmias have been suppressed by amiodarone may be switched to oral amiodarone. The optimal dose for changing from intravenous to oral administration of amiodarone will depend on the dose of intravenous amiodarone already administered, as well as the bioavailability of oral amiodarone. When changing to oral amiodarone therapy, clinical monitoring is recommended, particularly for elderly patients. See package insert for oral amiodarone. Since grapefruit juice is known to inhibit CYP3A-mediated metabolism of oral amiodarone in the intestinal mucosa, resulting in increased plasma levels of amiodarone, do not drink grapefruit juice during treatment with oral amiodarone [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Table 4 provides suggested doses of oral amiodarone to be initiated after varying durations of amiodarone administration. These recommendations are made on the basis of a similar total body amount of amiodarone delivered by the intravenous and oral routes, based on 50% bioavailability of oral amiodarone. Table 4: RECOMMENDATIONS FOR ORAL DOSAGE AFTER INTRAVENOUS INFUSION Duration of Amiodarone Infusion Assuming a 720 mg/day infusion (0.5 mg/min). Initial Daily Dose of Oral Amiodarone < 1 week 800 mg - 1600 mg 1 to 3 weeks 600 mg - 800 mg > 3 weeks Intravenous amiodarone is not intended for maintenance treatment. 400 mg The recommended starting dose is about 1000 mg over the first 24 hours of therapy, delivered by the following infusion regimen ( 2 ): o Initial Load: 150 mg in 100 mL (in D 5 W) infused over 10 minutes o Followed by: 1 mg/min for 6 hours o Followed by: 0.5 mg/min thereafter For breakthrough episodes of VF or hemodynamically unstable VT, repeat the Initial Load ( 2 ) The recommended starting dose of amiodarone is about 1000 mg over the first 24 hours of therapy, delivered by the following infusion regimen: After the first 24 hours, continue the maintenance infusion rate of 0.5 mg/min (720 mg per 24 hours) utilizing a concentration of 1 to 6 mg/mL (Use a central venous catheter for amiodarone concentrations greater than 2 mg/mL). Intravenous amiodarone loading infusions at much higher concentrations and rates of infusion much faster than recommended have resulted in hepatocellular necrosis and acute renal failure, leading to death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Therefore, for infusions longer than 1 hour, do not exceed amiodarone concentrations of 2 mg/mL, unless a central venous catheter is used [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Polysorbate 80, a component of amiodarone injection, is also known to leach DEHP from PVC [see Description (11)]. NOTE: Inspect parenteral drug products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Admixture Incompatibility Amiodarone in D 5 W is incompatible with the drugs shown in Table 3. Intravenous to Oral Transition Patients whose arrhythmias have been suppressed by amiodarone may be switched to oral amiodarone. Since grapefruit juice is known to inhibit CYP3A-mediated metabolism of oral amiodarone in the intestinal mucosa, resulting in increased plasma levels of amiodarone, do not drink grapefruit juice during treatment with oral amiodarone [see Drug Interactions (7)]. The recommended starting dose is about 1000 mg over the first 24 hours of therapy, delivered by the following infusion regimen (2): -Initial Load: 150 mg per 100 mL (in D5W) infused over 10 minutes -Followed by: 1 mg/min for 6 hours -Followed by: 0.5 mg/min thereafter In the event of breakthrough episodes of VF or hemodynamically unstable VT (2): -Repeat the Initial Load described above as needed (infused over 10 minutes) Increase the rate of the maintenance infusion to achieve effective arrhythmia suppression. (2) Image1.jpg Image2.jpg Image3.jpg Image4.jpg Correct hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, and hypocalcemia before initiating treatment Recommended Dosage: Initiate treatment with a loading doses of 800 to 1600 mg/day until initial therapeutic response occurs (usually 1 to 3 weeks). Once adequate arrhythmia control is achieved, or if side effects become prominent, reduce amiodarone hydrochloride dose to 600 to 800 mg/day for one month and then to the maintenance dose, usually 400 mg/day. Administration: Administer amiodarone hydrochloride tablets consistently with regard to meals [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Administration of amiodarone hydrochloride tablets in divided doses with meals is suggested for total daily doses of 1000 mg or higher, or when gastrointestinal intolerance occurs. Initiate treatment with a loading doses of 800 to 1600 mg/day until initial therapeutic response occurs (usually 1 to 3 weeks). (2) Once adequate arrhythmia control is achieved, or if side effects become prominent, reduce amiodarone hydrochloride tablets dose to 600 to 800 mg/day for one month and then to the maintenance dose, usually 400 mg/day. ( 2 ) Recommended Dosage: Initiate treatment with a loading doses of 800 to 1600 mg/day until initial therapeutic response occurs (usually 1 to 3 weeks). Administration: Administer amiodarone hydrochloride tablets consistently with regard to meals [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The recommended starting dose of amiodarone is about 1000 mg over the first 24 hours of therapy, delivered by the following infusion regimen: Table 1: AMIODARONE DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS: FIRST 24 HOURS Loading infusions First Rapid: 15 0 mg over the FIRST 10 minutes (15 mg/min). Add 3 mL of amiodarone (150 mg) to 100 mL D 5 W (concentration = 1.5 mg per mL). F o llowed by Slow: 36 0 mg over the NEXT 6 hours (1 mg/min). Add 18 mL of amiodarone (900 mg) to 500 mL D 5 W (concentration = 1.8 mg per mL). M a intenance infusion 54 0 mg over the REMAINING 18 hours (0.5 mg/min ). After the first 24 hours, continue the maintenance infusion rate of 0.5 mg/min (720 mg per 24 hours) utilizing a concentration of 1 to 6 mg per mL (Use a central venous catheter for amiodarone concentrations greater than 2 mg per mL). Intravenous amiodarone loading infusions at much higher concentrations and rates of infusion much faster than recommended have resulted in hepatocellular necrosis and acute renal failure, leading to death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] . Intravenous amiodarone concentrations greater than 3 mg per mL in D 5 W have been associated with a high incidence of peripheral vein phlebitis; however, concentrations of 2.5 mg per mL or less appear to be less irritating. Therefore, for infusions longer than 1 hour, do not exceed amiodarone concentrations of 2 mg per mL, unless a central venous catheter is used [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)] . Amiodarone has been found to leach out plasticizers, including DEHP [di-(2- ethylhexyl)phthalate] from intravenous tubing (including PVC tubing). Polysorbate 80, a component of amiodarone injection, is also known to leach DEHP from PVC [see Description (11)] . Table 2: AMIODARONE HCl SOLUTION STABILITY Solution Concentration (mg per mL) Container Comments 5% Dextrose in Water (D 5 W) 1.0 to 6.0 PVC Physically compatible, with amiodarone loss <10% at 2 hours at room temperature. 5% Dextrose in Water (D 5 W) 1.0 to 6.0 Polyolefin, Glass Physically compatible, with no amiodarone loss at 24 hours at room temperature. If co-administration of the following drugs is necessary, use separate intravenous administration lines. Table 3: Y-SITE INJECTION INCOMPATIBILITY Drug Vehicle Amiodarone Concentration Aminophylline D5W; NS 4 mg per mL Amoxicillin Sodium-Clavulanic Acid unknown 12.5 mg per mL Ampicillin Sodium-Sulbactam Sodium NS 6 mg per mL Argatroban D5W 1.8 mg per mL Bivalirudin D5W 4 mg per mL Cefamandole Nafate D5W 4 mg per mL Cefazolin Sodium D5W 4 mg per mL Ceftazidime D5W 6 mg per mL Digoxin D5W 6 mg per mL Furosemide (10 mg per mL) D5W 6 mg per mL Mezlocillin Sodium D5W 4 mg per mL Heparin Sodium D5W -- Imipenem-Cilastin Sodium D5W 6 mg per mL Magnesium Sulfate (500 mg per mL) D5W 6 mg per mL Micafungin NS 4 mg per mL Piperacillin Sodium –Tazobactam Sodium D5W 6 mg per mL Potassium Phosphates D5W 6 mg per mL Sodium Bicarbonate D5W 3 mg per mL Sodium Nitroprusside D5W 1.5, 6 and 15 mg per mL Sodium Phosphates D5W 6 mg per mL D 5 W = Dextrose 5% in Sterile Water, NS = Normal Saline Intravenous to Oral Transition Patients whose arrhythmias have been suppressed by amiodarone may be switched to oral amiodarone. Since grapefruit juice is known to inhibit CYP3A-mediated metabolism of oral amiodarone in the intestinal mucosa, resulting in increased plasma levels of amiodarone, do not drink grapefruit juice during treatment with oral amiodarone [see Drug Interactions (7)] . Table 4: RECOMMENDATIONS FOR ORAL DOSAGE AFTER INTRAVENOUS INFUSION Duration of Amiodarone Infusion# Initial Daily Dose of Oral Amiodarone < 1 week 800 to 1600 mg 1 to 3 weeks 600 to 800 mg > 3 weeks* 400 mg # Assuming a 720 mg/day infusion (0.5 mg/min). * Intravenous amiodarone is not intended for maintenance treatment. The recommended starting dose is about 1000 mg over the first 24 hours of therapy, delivered by the following infusion regimen (2): Initial Load: 150 mg in 100 mL (in D 5 W) infused over 10 minutes Followed by: 1 mg/min for 6 hours Followed by: 0.5 mg/min thereafter For breakthrough episodes of VF or hemodynamically unstable VT, repeat the Initial Load (2) ( 2 ) Table 2: AMIODARONE HCl SOLUTION STABILITY Solution Concentration (mg/mL) Container Comments 5% Dextrose in Water (D 5 W) 1.0 to 6.0 PVC Physically compatible, with amiodarone loss < 10% at 2 hours at room temperature. Table 3: Y-SITE INJECTION INCOMPATIBILITY D 5 W = Dextrose 5% in Sterile Water, NS = Normal Saline Drug Vehicle Amiodarone Concentration Aminophylline D 5 W; NS 4 mg/mL Amoxicillin Sodium-Clavulanic Acid unknown 12.5 mg/mL Ampicillin Sodium-Sulbactam Sodium NS 6 mg/mL Argatroban D 5 W 1.8 mg/mL Bivalirudin D 5 W 4 mg/mL Cefamandole Nafate D 5 W 4 mg/mL Cefazolin Sodium D 5 W 4 mg/mL Ceftazidime D 5 W 6 mg/mL Digoxin D 5 W 6 mg/mL Furosemide (10 mg/mL) D 5 W 6 mg/mL Mezlocillin Sodium D 5 W 4 mg/mL Heparin Sodium D 5 W -- Imipenem-Cilastin Sodium D 5 W 6 mg/mL Magnesium Sulfate (500 mg/mL) D 5 W 6 mg/mL Micafungin NS 4 mg/mL Piperacillin Sodium –Tazobactam Sodium D 5 W 6 mg/mL Potassium Phosphates D 5 W 6 mg/mL Sodium Bicarbonate D 5 W 3 mg/mL Sodium Nitroprusside D 5 W 1.5 mg/mL, 6 mg/mL and 15 mg/mL Sodium Phosphates D 5 W 6 mg/mL Intravenous to Oral Transition Patients whose arrhythmias have been suppressed by amiodarone may be switched to oral amiodarone. Initial Daily Dose of Oral Amiodarone < 1 week 800 mg to 1600 mg 1 to 3 weeks 600 mg to 800 mg > 3 weeks Intravenous amiodarone is not intended for maintenance treatment. 400 mg The recommended starting dose is about 1000 mg over the first 24 hours of therapy, delivered by the following infusion regimen ( 2 ): Initial Load: 150 mg in 100 mL (in D 5 W) infused over 10 minutes Followed by: 1 mg/min for 6 hours Followed by: 0.5 mg/min thereafter For breakthrough episodes of VF or hemodynamically unstable VT, repeat the Initial Load ( 2 )
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Cardiogenic shock. Sick sinus syndrome, second- or third-degree atrioventricular block, bradycardia leading to syncope without a functioning pacemaker. Known hypersensitivity to the drug or to any of its components, including iodine. Pacerone is contraindicated in patients with ( 4 ): Cardiogenic shock. Sick sinus syndrome, second- or third-degree AV block, bradycardia leading to syncope without a functioning pacemaker. Known hypersensitivity to the drug or any of its components. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Amiodarone is contraindicated in patients with: • Known hypersensitivity to any of the components of Amiodarone Hydrochloride Injection, USP, including iodine. Hypersensitivity reactions may involve rash, angioedema, cutaneous/mucosal hemorrhage (bleeding), fever, arthralgias (joint pains), eosinophilia (abnormal blood counts), urticaria (hives), thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, or severe periateritis (inflammation around blood vessels) • Cardiogenic shock • Marked sinus bradycardia • Second- or third-degree atrio-ventricular (AV) block unless of a functioning pacemaker is available. Amiodarone is contraindicated in patients with (4): • Known hypersensitivity to any of the components of amiodarone, including iodine • Cardiogenic shock • Marked sinus bradycardia • Second- or third-degree atrio-ventricular (AV) block unless of a functioning pacemaker is available. 4 Contraindications Amiodarone is contraindicated in patients with: Known hypersensitivity to any of the components of amiodarone, including iodine. Hypersensitivity reactions may involve rash, angioedema, cutaneous/mucosal hemorrhage (bleeding), fever, arthralgias (joint pains), eosinophilia (abnormal blood counts), urticaria (hives), thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, or severe periarteritis (inflammation around blood vessels). Cardiogenic shock. Marked sinus bradycardia. Second- or third-degree atrio-ventricular (AV) block unless a functioning pacemaker is available. Amiodarone is contraindicated in patients with (4): Known hypersensitivity to any of the components of amiodarone, including iodine Cardiogenic shock Marked sinus bradycardia Second- or third-degree atrio-ventricular (AV) block unless a functioning pacemaker is available. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Cardiogenic shock. • Sick sinus syndrome, second- or third-degree atrioventricular block, bradycardia leading to syncope without a functioning pacemaker. • Known hypersensitivity to the drug or to any of its components, including iodine. Amiodarone hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with (4) : • Cardiogenic shock. • Sick sinus syndrome, second- or third-degree AV block, bradycardia leading to syncope without a functioning pacemaker. • Known hypersensitivity to the drug or any of its components. Amiodarone hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with ( 4 ): Cardiogenic shock. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Amiodarone is contraindicated in patients with: • Known hypersensitivity to any of the components of Amiodarone Injection, including iodine. • Cardiogenic shock. • Marked sinus bradycardia. • Second- or third-degree atrio-ventricular (AV) block unless a functioning pacemaker is available. Amiodarone is contraindicated in patients with (4): • Known hypersensitivity to any of the components of amiodarone, including iodine • Cardiogenic shock • Marked sinus bradycardia • Second- or third-degree atrio-ventricular (AV) block unless a functioning pacemaker is available. Amiodarone Hydrochloride Tablets is contraindicated in patients with ( 4 ): Cardiogenic shock. Amiodarone hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with ( 4 ): • Cardiogenic shock. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Amiodarone is contraindicated in patients with: Known hypersensitivity to any of the components of amiodarone hydrochloride injection, including iodine. Cardiogenic shock Marked sinus bradycardia Second- or third-degree atrio-ventricular (AV) block unless a functioning pacemaker is available. Amiodarone is contraindicated in patients with ( 4 ): Known hypersensitivity to any of the components of amiodarone, including iodine Cardiogenic shock Marked sinus bradycardia Second- or third-degree atrio-ventricular (AV) block unless a functioning pacemaker is available.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Because of amiodarone's long half-life, expect drug interactions to persist for weeks to months after discontinuation of amiodarone. Drug interactions with amiodarone are described in Table 1 below. Table 1: Amiodarone Drug Interactions Concomitant Drug Class/Name Examples Clinical Comment Pharmacodynamic Interactions QT Prolonging Drugs class I and III antiarrhythmics, lithium, certain phenothiazines, tricyclic antidepressants, certain fluoroquinolone and macrolide antibiotics, azole antifungals, halogenated inhalation anesthetic agents Increased risk of Torsade de Pointes. Avoid concomitant use. Negative Chronotropes digoxin, beta blockers, verapamil, diltiazem, clonidine, ivabradine Potentiates the electrophysiologic and hemodynamic effects of amiodarone, resulting in bradycardia, sinus arrest, and AV block. Monitor heart rate. Pharmacokinetic Interactions CYP450 Inhibitors grapefruit juice, certain fluoroquinolone and macrolide antibiotics, azole antifungals, cimetidine, certain protease inhibitors Increased exposure of amiodarone. CYP450 Inducers St. John's Wort Reduced amiodarone serum levels. Cyclosporine Increased plasma levels of cyclosporine have been reported resulting in elevated creatinine, despite reduction of cyclosporine dose. Monitor cyclosporine drug levels and renal function with concomitant use. Cholestyramine Reduced amiodarone serum levels. Antiarrhythmics quinidine, procainamide, flecainide Reserve concomitant use for patients who are unresponsive to a single agent. Antiarrhythmic metabolism inhibited by amiodarone. Initiate antiarrhythmic at a lower than usual dose and monitor patient carefully. Reduce dose levels of previously administered antiarrhythmic by 30% to 50% for several days after transitioning to oral amiodarone. Evaluate continued need for antiarrhythmic. Digoxin Increased digoxin concentration. Reduce digoxin by half or discontinue. If continued, monitor for evidence of toxicity. HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors simvastatin, lovastatin, atorvastatin Increased plasma concentration of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor. Limit the dose of lovastatin to 40 mg. Limit the coadministered dose of simvastatin to 20 mg. Lower starting dose of other CYP3A4 substrates may be required. Warfarin Potentiates anticoagulant response and can result in serious or fatal bleeding. Coadministration increases prothrombin time by 100% after 3 to 4 days. Reduce warfarin dose by one-third to one-half and monitor prothrombin times. Phenytoin Increased steady-state levels of phenytoin. Monitor phenytoin levels. Hepatitis C Direct Acting Antiviral sofosbuvir Cases of symptomatic bradyarrhythmia requiring pacemaker insertion have been reported in patients on oral maintenance amiodarone who initiated therapy with sofosbuvir. CYP3A Substrate lidocaine Sinus bradycardia has been reported with oral amiodarone in combination with lidocaine given for local anesthesia. A lower starting dose of lidocaine may be required. CYP3A Substrate fentanyl Fentanyl in combination with amiodarone may cause hypotension, bradycardia, and decreased cardiac output. Avoid coadministration of amiodarone with other antiarrhythmics and drugs known to prolong the QT interval. ( 7 ) Amiodarone is a substrate for CYP3A and CYP2C8, so inhibitors and inducers affect amiodarone exposure. ( 7 ) Amiodarone inhibits P-glycoprotein and CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, and CYP3A, increasing exposure to other drugs. ( 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Amiodarone is a substrate for CYP3A and CYP2C8, so inhibitors and inducers affect amiodarone exposure ( 7 ) Amiodarone inhibits p-glycoprotein and CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, and CYP3A, increasing exposure to other drugs ( 7 ) 7.1 Pharmacodynamic Interactions Drugs Prolonging the QT Interval Co-administration of drugs prolonging the QT interval (such as class I and III antiarrhythmics, lithium, certain phenothiazines, tricyclic antidepressants, certain fluoroquinolone and macrolide antibiotics, azole antifungals, halogenated inhalation anesthetic agents) increases the risk of Torsade de Pointes. In general, avoid concomitant use of drugs that prolong the QT interval [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Drugs That Slow Heart Rate Concomitant use of drugs with depressant effects on the sinus and AV nodes (e.g., digoxin, beta blockers, verapamil, diltiazem, ivabradine, clonidine) can potentiate the electrophysiologic and hemodynamic effects of amiodarone, resulting in bradycardia, sinus arrest, and AV block. Monitor heart rate in patients on amiodarone and concomitant drugs that slow heart rate. 7.2 Pharmacokinetic Interactions Effect of Other Drugs on Amiodarone Amiodarone is metabolized to the active metabolite desethylamiodarone (DEA) by the cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzyme group, specifically CYP3A and CYP2C8. Amiodarone has the potential for interactions with drugs or substances that may be substrates, inhibitors or inducers of CYP450 enzymes (e.g., inhibitors such as protease inhibitors , grapefruit juice , certain fluoroquinolone and macrolide antibiotics , azole antifungals and inducers such as St. John’s Wort ) or P-glycoprotein. In view of the long and variable half- life of amiodarone, potential for drug interactions exists not only with concomitant medications but also with drugs administered after discontinuation of amiodarone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Patients should avoid grapefruit juice beverages while taking amiodarone because exposure to amiodarone is significantly increased [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Effect of amiodarone on other drugs Amiodarone and DEA are inhibitors of P-glycoprotein and certain CYP450 enzymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, and CYP3A [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Antiarrhythmics The metabolism of quinidine , procainamide , and flecainide can be inhibited by amiodarone. In general, initiate any added antiarrhythmic drug at a lower than usual dose and monitor the patient carefully. During transfer to oral amiodarone, reduce the dose levels of previously administered antiarrhythmic agents by 30% to 50% several days after the addition of oral amiodarone. Review the continued need for the other antiarrhythmic agent after the effects of amiodarone have been established, and attempt discontinuation [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Digoxin In patients receiving digoxin therapy, administration of oral amiodarone results in an increase in serum digoxin concentration. Reduce dose of digoxin by half or discontinue digoxin. If digitalis treatment is continued, monitor serum levels closely and observe patients for clinical evidence of toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amiodarone to 20 mg daily. Limit the daily dose of lovastatin to 40 mg. Lower starting and maintenance doses of other CYP3A4 substrates (e.g., atorvastatin) may be required as amiodarone may increase the plasma concentration of these drugs. Anticoagulants Potentiation of warfarin -type (CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate) anticoagulant response is almost always seen in patients receiving amiodarone and can result in serious or fatal bleeding. Since the concomitant administration of warfarin with amiodarone increases INR by 100% after 3 to 4 days, reduce the dose of the anticoagulant by one-third to one-half, and monitor INR closely. Cyclosporine (CYP3A Substrate) Administered in combination with oral amiodarone has been reported to produce persistently elevated plasma concentrations of cyclosporine resulting in elevated creatinine, despite reduction in dose of cyclosporine. Monitor cyclosporine drug levels and renal function in patients taking both drugs. Increased steady-state levels of phenytoin during concomitant therapy with amiodarone have been reported. Monitor phenytoin levels in patients taking both drugs. 7.3 Serious Symptomatic Bradycardia When Co-administered with Ledipasvir/Sofosbuvir or with Sofosbuvir with Simeprevir Postmarketing cases of symptomatic bradycardia, some requiring pacemaker insertion and at least one fatal, have been reported when ledipasvir/sofosbuvir or sofosbuvir with simeprevir were initiated in patients on amiodarone. Bradycardia generally occurred within hours to days, but in some cases up to 2 weeks after initiating antiviral treatment. Bradycardia generally resolved after discontinuation of antiviral treatment. The mechanism for this effect is unknown. Monitor heart rate in patients taking or recently discontinuing amiodarone when starting antiviral treatment. Drug Interactions Effect of Other Drugs on Amiodarone: Cimetidine inhibits CYP3A and can increase serum amiodarone levels. Grapefruit juice given to healthy volunteers increased amiodarone AUC by 50% and Cmax by 84%, resulting in increased plasma levels of amiodarone. Cholestyramine reduces enterohepatic circulation of amiodarone thereby increasing its elimination. This results in reduced amiodarone serum levels and half-life. Effect of Amiodarone on Other Drugs: Amiodarone taken concomitantly with quinidine increases the quinidine serum concentration by 33% after two days. Amiodarone taken concomitantly with procainamide for less than seven days increases plasma concentrations of procainamide and n-acetyl procainamide by 55% and 33%, respectively. Loratadine , a non-sedating antihistaminic, is metabolized primarily by CYP3A and its metabolism can be inhibited by amiodarone. Metabolism of lidocaine can be inhibited by amiodarone. Sinus bradycardia has been reported with oral amiodarone in combination with lidocaine (CYP3A substrate) given for local anesthesia. Seizure, associated with increased lidocaine concentrations, has been reported with concomitant administration of intravenous amiodarone. Amiodarone can inhibit the metabolism of macrolide/ketolide antibiotics (except for azithromycin) and systemic azole antifungal drugs. Amiodarone taken concomitantly with digoxin increases the serum digoxin concentration by 70% after one day. Dextromethorphan is a substrate for both CYP2D6 and CYP3A. Amiodarone inhibits CYP2D6. Chronic (> 2 weeks) oral amiodarone administration impairs metabolism of dextromethorphan can lead to increased serum concentrations. Dabigatran etexilate when taken concomitantly with oral amiodarone can result in elevated serum concentration of dabigatran. Cyclophosphamide is a prodrug , metabolized by CYP450 including CYP3A to an active metabolite. The metabolism of cyclophosphamide may be inhibited by amiodarone. Clopidogrel , an inactive thienopyridine prodrug, is metabolized in the liver by CYP3A to an active metabolite. A potential interaction between clopidogrel and amiodarone resulting in ineffective inhibition of platelet aggregation has been reported. 7 Drug Interactions Amiodarone is metabolized to the active metabolite desethylamiodarone by the cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzyme group, specifically cytochromes P4503A4 (CYP3A) and CYP2C8. The CYP3A isoenzyme is present in both the liver and intestines. Amiodarone is an inhibitor of CYP3A. Therefore, amiodarone has the potential for interactions with drugs or substances that may be substrates, inhibitors or inducers of CYP3A. While only a limited number of in vivo drug-drug interactions with amiodarone have been reported, chiefly with the oral formulation, the potential for other interactions should be anticipated. This is especially important for drugs associated with serious toxicity, such as other antiarrhythmics. If such drugs are needed, reassess their dose and, where appropriate, measure plasma concentrations. In view of the long and variable half-life of amiodarone, potential for drug interactions exists not only with concomitant medication but also with drugs administered after discontinuation of amiodarone. Since amiodarone is a substrate for CYP3A and CYP2C8, drugs/substances that inhibit these isoenzymes may decrease the metabolism and increase serum concentration of amiodarone. Reported examples include the following: Protease inhibitors: Protease inhibitors are known to inhibit CYP3A to varying degrees. A case report of one patient taking amiodarone 200 mg and indinavir 800 mg three times a day resulted in increases in amiodarone concentrations from 0.9 mg/L to 1.3 mg/L. DEA concentrations were not affected. There was no evidence of toxicity. Consider monitoring for amiodarone toxicity and serial measurement of amiodarone serum concentration during concomitant protease inhibitor therapy. Histamine H 1 antagonists: Loratadine, a non-sedating antihistaminic, is metabolized primarily by CYP3A. QT interval prolongation and TdP have been reported with the coadministration of loratadine and amiodarone. Histamine H 2 antagonists: Cimetidine inhibits CYP3A and can increase serum amiodarone levels. Antidepressants: Trazodone, an antidepressant, is metabolized primarily by CYP3A. QT interval prolongation and TdP have been reported with the coadministration of trazodone and amiodarone. Other substances: Grapefruit juice given to healthy volunteers increased amiodarone AUC by 50% and C max by 84%, resulting in increased plasma levels of amiodarone. Do not take grapefruit juice during treatment with amiodarone. Amiodarone inhibits p-glycoprotein and certain CYP450 enzymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, and CYP3A. This inhibition can result in unexpectedly high plasma levels of other drugs which are metabolized by those CYP450 enzymes or are substrates for p-glycoprotein. Reported examples of this interaction include the following: Immunosuppressives: Cyclosporine (CYP3A substrate) administered in combination with oral amiodarone has been reported to produce persistently elevated plasma concentrations of cyclosporine resulting in elevated creatinine, despite reduction in dose of cyclosporine. HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors: Simvastatin (CYP3A substrate) in combination with amiodarone has been associated with reports of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis. Cardiovasculars: Cardiac glycosides: In patients receiving digoxin therapy, administration of oral amiodarone regularly results in an increase in serum digoxin concentration that may reach toxic levels with resultant clinical toxicity. On administration of oral amiodarone, review the need for digitalis therapy and reduce the dose of digitalis by approximately 50% or discontinue digitalis. If digitalis treatment is continued, monitor serum levels closely and observe patients for clinical evidence of toxicity. Antiarrhythmics: Other antiarrhythmic drugs, such as quinidine, procainamide, disopyramide, and phenytoin, have been used concurrently with amiodarone. There have been case reports of increased steady-state levels of quinidine, procainamide, and phenytoin during concomitant therapy with amiodarone. Phenytoin decreases serum amiodarone levels. Amiodarone taken concomitantly with quinidine increases quinidine serum concentration by 33% after two days. Reduce quinidine and procainamide doses by one-third when either is administered with amiodarone. Plasma levels of flecainide have been reported to increase in the presence of oral amiodarone; adjust the dose of flecainide when these drugs are administered concomitantly. Reserve the combination of amiodarone with other antiarrhythmic therapy to patients with life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias who are incompletely responsive to a single agent or incompletely responsive to amiodarone. During transfer to oral amiodarone, reduce the dose levels of previously administered agents by 30 to 50% several days after the addition of oral amiodarone. Review the continued need for the other antiarrhythmic agent after the effects of amiodarone have been established, and attempt discontinuation. If the treatment is continued, carefully monitor these patients for adverse effects, especially for conduction disturbances and exacerbation of tachyarrhythmias. In amiodarone-treated patients who require additional antiarrhythmic therapy, the initial dose of such agents should be approximately half of the usual recommended dose. Antihypertensives: Use amiodarone with caution in patients receiving ß-receptor blocking agents (e.g., propranolol, a CYP3A inhibitor) or calcium channel antagonists (e.g., verapamil, a CYP3A substrate, and diltiazem, a CYP3A inhibitor) because of the possible potentiation of bradycardia, sinus arrest, and AV block; if necessary, amiodarone can continue to be used after insertion of a pacemaker in patients with severe bradycardia or sinus arrest. Anticoagulants: Potentiation of warfarin-type (CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate) anticoagulant response is almost always seen in patients receiving amiodarone and can result in serious or fatal bleeding. Since the concomitant administration of warfarin with amiodarone increases the prothrombin time by 100% after 3 to 4 days, reduce the dose of the anticoagulant by one-third to one-half, and monitor prothrombin times closely. Clopidogrel, an inactive thienopyridine prodrug, is metabolized in the liver by CYP3A to an active metabolite. Some drugs/substances are known to accelerate the metabolism of amiodarone by stimulating the synthesis of CYP3A (enzyme induction). This may lead to low amiodarone serum levels and potential decrease in efficacy. Reported examples of this interaction include the following: Antibiotics: Rifampin is a potent inducer of CYP3A. Administration of rifampin concomitantly with oral amiodarone has been shown to result in decreases in serum concentrations of amiodarone and desethylamiodarone. Other substances, including herbal preparations: St. John's Wort (Hypericum perforatum) induces CYP3A. Since amiodarone is a substrate for CYP3A, St. John's Wort likely reduces amiodarone levels. Other reported interactions with amiodarone: Fentanyl (CYP3A substrate) in combination with amiodarone may cause hypotension, bradycardia, and decreased cardiac output. Cholestyramine increases enterohepatic elimination of amiodarone and may reduce its serum levels and t ½ . Disopyramide causes QT prolongation which could induce arrhythmia. Fluoroquinolones, macrolide antibiotics, and azoles are known to cause QTc prolongation. There have been reports of QTc prolongation, with or without TdP, in patients taking amiodarone when fluoroquinolones, macrolide antibiotics, or azoles were administered concomitantly [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. Hemodynamic and electrophysiologic interactions have also been observed after concomitant administration with propranolol, diltiazem, and verapamil. Volatile Anesthetic Agents: Patients who are on amiodarone therapy may be more sensitive to the myocardial depressant and conduction defects of halogenated inhalational anesthetics [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. In addition to the interactions noted above, chronic (> 2 weeks) oral amiodarone administration impairs metabolism of phenytoin, dextromethorphan, and methotrexate. This inhibition can result in unexpectedly high plasma levels of other drugs that are metabolized by those CYP450 enzymes or are substrates for p-glycoprotein. There have been reports of QTc prolongation, with or without TdP, in patients taking amiodarone when fluoroquinolones, macrolide antibiotics, or azoles were administered concomitantly. (7) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Because of amiodarone’s long half-life, expect drug interactions to persist for weeks to months after discontinuation of amiodarone. Monitor heart rate Pharmacokinetic Interactions CYP450 Inhibitors grapefruit juice, certain fluoroquinolone and macrolide antibiotics, azole antifungals, cimetidine, certain protease inhibitors Increased exposure of amiodarone. John’s Wort Reduced amiodarone serum levels. Reduce dose levels of previously administered antiarrhythmic by 30 to 50% for several days after transitioning to oral amiodarone. • Avoid coadministration of amiodarone with other antiarrhythmics and drugs known to prolong the QT interval. (7) • Amiodarone is a substrate for CYP3A and CYP2C8, so inhibitors and inducers affect amiodarone exposure. (7) • Amiodarone inhibits P-glycoprotein and CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, and CYP3A, increasing exposure to other drugs. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Amiodarone is a substrate for CYP3A and CYP2C8, so inhibitors and inducers affect amiodarone exposure (7) • Amiodarone inhibits p-glycoprotein and CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, and CYP3A, increasing exposure to other drugs (7) 7.1 Pharmacodynamic Interactions Drugs prolonging the QT interval: Co-administration of drugs prolonging the QT interval (such as class I and III antiarrhythmics, lithium, certain phenothiazines, tricyclic antidepressants, certain fluoroquinolone and macrolide antibiotics, azole antifungals, halogenated inhalation anesthetic agents) increases the risk of Torsade de Pointes. In general, avoid concomitant use of drugs that prolong the QT interval [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] . Drugs that slow heart rate: Concomitant use of drugs with depressant effects on the sinus and AV nodes (e.g., digoxin, beta blockers, verapamil, diltiazem, ivabradine, clonidine) can potentiate the electrophysiologic and hemodynamic effects of amiodarone, resulting in bradycardia, sinus arrest, and AV block. Amiodarone has the potential for interactions with drugs or substances that may be substrates, inhibitors or inducers of CYP450 enzymes (e.g., inhibitors such as protease inhibitors, grapefruit juice, certain fluoroquinolone and macrolide antibiotics, azole antifungals and inducers such as St. John’s Wort ) or P- glycoprotein. In view of the long and variable half-life of amiodarone, potential for drug interactions exists not only with concomitant medications but also with drugs administered after discontinuation of amiodarone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Patients should avoid grapefruit juice beverages while taking amiodarone because exposure to amiodarone is significantly increased [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Effect of amiodarone on other drugs Amiodarone and DEA are inhibitors of P-glycoprotein and certain CYP450 enzymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, and CYP3A [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Antiarrhythmics: The metabolism of quinidine, procainamide, and flecainide can be inhibited by amiodarone. During transfer to oral amiodarone, reduce the dose levels of previously administered antiarrhythmic agents by 30 to 50% several days after the addition of oral amiodarone. Review the continued need for the other antiarrhythmic agent after the effects of amiodarone have been established, and attempt discontinuation [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Digoxin: In patients receiving digoxin therapy, administration of oral amiodarone results in an increase in serum digoxin concentration. If digitalis treatment is continued, monitor serum levels closely and observe patients for clinical evidence of toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors: Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amiodarone to 20 mg daily. Anticoagulants: Potentiation of warfarin -type (CYP2C9 and CYP3A substrate) anticoagulant response is almost always seen in patients receiving amiodarone and can result in serious or fatal bleeding. 7.3 Serious Symptomatic Bradycardia When Co-administered with Ledipasvir/Sofosbuvir or with Sofosbuvir with Simeprevir Post-marketing cases of symptomatic bradycardia, some requiring pacemaker insertion and at least one fatal, have been reported when ledipasvir/sofosbuvir or sofosbuvir with simeprevir were initiated in patients on amiodarone. HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors simvastatin, lovastatin, atorvastatin Increased plasma concentration of HMG- CoA reductase inhibitor. ( 7 ) • Amiodarone is a substrate for CYP3A and CYP2C8, so inhibitors and inducers affect amiodarone exposure. ( 7 ) • Amiodarone inhibits P-glycoprotein and CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, and CYP3A, increasing exposure to other drugs.

=== CARISOPRODOL ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carisoprodol is indicated for the relief of discomfort associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions in adults. Limitation of Use Carisoprodol should only be used for short periods (up to two or three weeks) because adequate evidence of effectiveness for more prolonged use has not been established and because acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions are generally of short duration. [ see Dosage and Administration (2) ]. Carisoprodol is a muscle relaxant indicated for the relief of discomfort associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions in adults. (1) Limitations of Use Should only be used for acute treatment periods up to two or three weeks ( 1 ) (1) Limitation of Use Should only be used for acute treatment periods up to two or three weeks (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carisoprodol Tablets, USP are indicated for the relief of discomfort associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions in adults. Limitation of Use Carisoprodol Tablets, USP should only be used for short periods (up to two or three weeks) because adequate evidence of effectiveness for more prolonged use has not been established and because acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions are generally of short duration [ see Dosage and Administration (2) ]. Carisoprodol Tablet is a muscle relaxant indicated for the relief of discomfort associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions in adults. (1) Limitation of Use : Should only be used for acute treatment periods up to two or three weeks (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carisoprodol tablets, USP is indicated for the relief of discomfort associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions in adults. Carisoprodol tablets, USP should only be used for short periods (up to two or three weeks) because adequate evidence of effectiveness for more prolonged use has not been established and because acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions are generally of short duration [ see Dosage and Administration (2) ]. Carisoprodol tablets, USP is indicated for the relief of discomfort associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions in adults. (1) Limitations of Use: • Should only be used for acute treatment periods up to two or three weeks (1)
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of carisoprodol is 350 mg three times a day and at bedtime. The recommended maximum duration of carisoprodol use is up to two or three weeks. Recommended dose is 350 mg three times a day and at bedtime. (2) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of carisoprodol tablets is 250 mg to 350 mg three times a day and at bedtime. The recommended maximum duration of carisoprodol tablets use is up to two or three weeks. Recommended dose is 250 mg to 350 mg three times a day and at bedtime. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of Carisoprodol tablets, USP is 250 mg to 350 mg three times a day and at bedtime. The recommended maximum duration of carisoprodol tablets, USP use is up to two or three weeks. • Recommended dose is 250 mg to 350 mg three times a day and at bedtime.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Carisoprodol is contraindicated in patients with a history of acute intermittent porphyria or a hypersensitivity reaction to a carbamate such as meprobamate. Acute intermittent porphyria (4) Hypersensitivity reactions to a carbamate such as meprobamate (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Carisoprodol tablet is contraindicated in patients with a history of acute intermittent porphyria or a hypersensitivity reaction to a carbamate such as meprobamate. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Carisoprodol Tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of acute intermittent porphyria or a hypersensitivity reaction to a carbamate such as meprobamate. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Carisoprodol tablets, USP is contraindicated in patients with a history of acute intermittent porphyria or a hypersensitivity reaction to a carbamate such as meprobamate. • Acute intermittent porphyria (4) • Hypersensitivity reactions to a carbamate such as meprobamate (4)
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CNS depressants (e.g., alcohol, benzodiazepines, opioids, tricyclic antidepressants) - additive sedative effects ( 5.1 , 7.1 ) 7.1 CNS Depressants The sedative effects of carisoprodol and other CNS depressants (e.g., alcohol, benzodiazepines, opioids, tricyclic antidepressants) may be additive. Therefore, caution should be exercised with patients who take more than one of these CNS depressants simultaneously. Concomitant use of carisoprodol and meprobamate, a metabolite of carisoprodol, is not recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7.2 CYP2C19 Inhibitors and Inducers Carisoprodol is metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 to form meprobamate [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Co-administration of CYP2C19 inhibitors, such as omeprazole or fluvoxamine, with carisoprodol could result in increased exposure of carisoprodol and decreased exposure of meprobamate. Co-administration of CYP2C19 inducers, such as rifampin or St. John’s Wort, with carisoprodol could result in decreased exposure of carisoprodol and increased exposure of meprobamate. Low dose aspirin also showed an induction effect on CYP2C19. The full pharmacological impact of these potential alterations of exposures in terms of either efficacy or safety of carisoprodol is unknown. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CNS depressants (e.g., alcohol, benzodiazepines, opioids, tricyclic antidepressants) - additive sedative effects ( 5.1, 7.1 ) 7.1 CNS Depressants The sedative effects of Carisoprodoland other CNS depressants (e.g., alcohol, benzodiazepines, opioids, tricyclic antidepressants) may be additive. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • CNS depressants (e.g., alcohol, benzodiazepines, opioids, tricyclic antidepressants) - additive sedative effects ( 5.1 , 7.1 ) 7.1 CNS Depressants The sedative effects of carisoprodol and other CNS depressants (e.g., alcohol, benzodiazepines, opioids, tricyclic antidepressants) may be additive. John's Wort, with carisoprodol could result in decreased exposure of carisoprodol and increased exposure of meprobamate.

=== DAPTOMYCIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Daptomycin for injection is a lipopeptide antibacterial indicated for the treatment of: • Complicated skin and skin structure infections (cSSSI) in adult and pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) ( 1.1 ) and, • Staphylococcus aureus bloodstream infections (bacteremia), in adult patients including those with right-sided infective endocarditis, ( 1.2 ) • Staphylococcus aureus bloodstream infections (bacteremia) in pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age). ( 1.3 ) Limitations of Use : • Daptomycin for injection is not indicated for the treatment of pneumonia. ( 1.4 ) • Daptomycin for injection is not indicated for the treatment of left-sided infective endocarditis due to S. aureus . ( 1.4 ) • Daptomycin for Injection is not recommended in pediatric patients younger than one year of age due to the risk of potential effects on muscular, neuromuscular, and/or nervous systems (either peripheral and/or central) observed in neonatal dogs. ( 1.4 ) To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of daptomycin for injection and other antibacterial drugs, daptomycin for injection should be used to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.5 ) 1.1 Complicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections (cSSSI) Daptomycin for injection is indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) with complicated skin and skin structure infections (cSSSI) caused by susceptible isolates of the following Gram-positive bacteria: Staphylococcus aureus (including methicillin-resistant isolates), Streptococcus pyogenes, Streptococcus agalactiae, Streptococcus dysgalactiae subsp. equisimilis, and Enterococcus faecalis (vancomycin-susceptible isolates only). 1.2 Staphylococcus aureus Bloodstream Infections (Bacteremia) in Adult Patients, Including Those with Right-Sided Infective Endocarditis, Caused by Methicillin-Susceptible and Methicillin-Resistant Isolates Daptomycin for injection is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with Staphylococcus aureus bloodstream infections (bacteremia), including adult patients with right-sided infective endocarditis, caused by methicillin-susceptible and methicillin-resistant isolates. 1.3 Staphylococcus aureus Bloodstream Infections (Bacteremia) in Pediatric Patients (1 to 17 Years of Age) Daptomycin for injection is indicated for the treatment of pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) with Staphylococcus aureus bloodstream infections (bacteremia). 1.4 Limitations of Use Daptomycin for injection is not indicated for the treatment of pneumonia. Daptomycin for injection is not indicated for the treatment of left-sided infective endocarditis due to S. The clinical trial of daptomycin for injection in adult patients with S. aureus bloodstream infections included limited data from patients with left-sided infective endocarditis; outcomes in these patients were poor [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . Daptomycin for injection has not been studied in patients with prosthetic valve endocarditis. Daptomycin for injection is not recommended in pediatric patients younger than 1 year of age due to the risk of potential effects on muscular, neuromuscular, and/or nervous systems (either peripheral and/or central) observed in neonatal dogs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13.2 )] . 1.5 Usage Appropriate specimens for microbiological examination should be obtained in order to isolate and identify the causative pathogens and to determine their susceptibility to daptomycin. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of daptomycin for injection and other antibacterial drugs, daptomycin for injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information is available, it should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. Empiric therapy may be initiated while awaiting test results. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Daptomycin for injection is a lipopeptide antibacterial indicated for the treatment of: Complicated skin and skin structure infections (cSSSI) in adult and pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) ( 1.1 ) and, Staphylococcus aureus bloodstream infections (bacteremia), in adult patients including those with right-sided infective endocarditis. ( 1.2 ) Staphylococcus aureus bloodstream infections (bacteremia) in pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age). ( 1.3 ) Limitations of use: Daptomycin for injection is not indicated for the treatment of pneumonia. ( 1.4 ) Daptomycin for injection is not indicated for the treatment of left-sided infective endocarditis due to S. ( 1.4 ) Daptomycin for injection is not recommended in pediatric patients younger than one year of age due to the risk of potential effects on muscular, neuromuscular, and/or nervous systems (either peripheral and/or central) observed in neonatal dogs. ( 1.5 ) 1.1 Complicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections (cSSSI) Daptomycin for injection is indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) with complicated skin and skin structure infections (cSSSI) caused by susceptible isolates of the following Gram-positive bacteria: Staphylococcus aureus (including methicillin-resistant isolates), Streptococcus pyogenes , Streptococcus agalactiae , Streptococcus dysgalactiae subsp. equisimilis , and Enterococcus faecalis (vancomycin-susceptible isolates only). Daptomycin for injection is not recommended in pediatric patients younger than 1 year of age due to the risk of potential effects on muscular, neuromuscular, and/or nervous systems (either peripheral and/or central) observed in neonatal dogs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13.2 )]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Daptomycin for Injection is a lipopeptide antibacterial indicated for the treatment of: Complicated skin and skin structure infections (cSSSI) in adult and pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) ( 1.1 ) and, Staphylococcus aureus bloodstream infections (bacteremia), in adult patients including those with right-sided infective endocarditis, ( 1.2 ) Staphylococcus aureus bloodstream infections (bacteremia) in pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Daptomycin for Injection is a lipopeptide antibacterial indicated for the treatment of: • Complicated skin and skin structure infections (cSSSI) in adult patients ( 1.1 ) and, • Staphylococcus aureus bloodstream infections (bacteremia), in adult patients including those with right-sided infective endocarditis, ( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use: • This Daptomycin for Injection product is not approved for use in pediatric patients. ( 1.3 ) • Daptomycin for Injection is not indicated for the treatment of pneumonia. ( 1.3 ) • Daptomycin for Injection is not indicated for the treatment of left-sided infective endocarditis due to S. ( 1.3 ) • Daptomycin for Injection is not recommended in pediatric patients younger than one year of age due to the risk of potential effects on muscular, neuromuscular, and/or nervous systems (either peripheral and/or central) observed in neonatal dogs. ( 1.3 ) To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Daptomycin for Injection and other antibacterial drugs, Daptomycin for Injection should be used to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Complicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections (cSSSI) Daptomycin for Injection is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with complicated skin and skin structure infections (cSSSI) caused by susceptible isolates of the following Gram-positive bacteria: Staphylococcus aureus (including methicillin-resistant isolates), Streptococcus pyogenes, Streptococcus agalactiae, Streptococcus dysgalactiae subsp. 1.3 Limitations of Use This Daptomycin for Injection product is not approved for use in pediatric patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . Daptomycin for Injection is not indicated for the treatment of pneumonia. aureus bloodstream infections included limited data from patients with left-sided infective endocarditis; outcomes in these patients were poor [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Daptomycin for Injection is not recommended in pediatric patients younger than 1 year of age due to the risk of potential effects on muscular, neuromuscular, and/or nervous systems (either peripheral and/or central) observed in neonatal dogs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) and Nonclinical Toxicology (13.2) ] . 1.4 Usage Appropriate specimens for microbiological examination should be obtained in order to isolate and identify the causative pathogens and to determine their susceptibility to daptomycin. aureus bloodstream infections included limited data from patients with left-sided infective endocarditis; outcomes in these patients were poor [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Daptomycin for injection is a lipopeptide antibacterial indicated for the treatment of: Complicated skin and skin structure infections (cSSSI) in adult and pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) ( 1.1 ) and, Staphylococcus aureus bloodstream infections (bacteremia), in adult patients including those with right-sided infective endocarditis ( 1.2) Staphylococcus aureus bloodstream infections (bacteremia) in pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age). ( 1.3 ) Limitations of Use : Daptomycin for injection is not indicated for the treatment of pneumonia. ( 1.4) Daptomycin for injection is not recommended in pediatric patients younger than one year of age due to the risk of potential effects on muscular, neuromuscular, and/or nervous systems (either peripheral and/or central) observed in neonatal dogs. ( 1.4) To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of daptomycin for injection and other antibacterial drugs, daptomycin for injection should be used to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.5 ) 1.1 Complicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections (cSSSI) Daptomycin for injection is indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) with complicated skin and skin structure infections (cSSSI) Daptomycin for injection is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with complicated skin and skin structure infections (cSSSI) caused by susceptible isolates of the following Gram-positive bacteria: Staphylococcus aureus (including methicillin-resistant isolates), Streptococcus pyogenes, Streptococcus agalactiae, Streptococcus dysgalactiae subsp. aureus bloodstream infections included limited data from patients with left-sided infective endocarditis; outcomes in these patients were poor [see Clinical Trials ( 14.2 )]. Daptomycin for injection is not recommended in pediatric patients younger than 1 year of age due to the risk of potential effects on muscular, neuromuscular, and/or nervous systems (either peripheral and/or central) observed in neonatal dogs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13.2 )]. ( 1.3 ) Limitations of Use: • Daptomycin for injection is not indicated for the treatment of pneumonia. aureus. Daptomycin for Injection is not recommended in pediatric patients younger than 1 year of age due to the risk of potential effects on muscular, neuromuscular, and/or nervous systems (either peripheral and/or central) observed in neonatal dogs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) and Nonclinical Toxicology (13.2) ].
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult Patients · Administer to adult patients intravenously in 0.9% sodium chloride, either by injection over a 2-minute period or by infusion over a 30-minute period. ( 2.1 , 2.7 ) · Recommended dosage regimen for adult patients ( 2.2 , 2.4 , 2.6 ): Creatinine Clearance (CL CR ) Dosage Regimen cSSSI For 7 to 14 days S.aureus Bacteremia For 2 to 6 weeks ≥30 mL/min 4 mg/kg once every 24 hours 6 mg/kg once every 24 hours <30 mL/min, including hemodialysis and CAPD 4 mg/kg once every 48 hours* 6 mg/kg once every 48 hours* *Administered following hemodialysis on hemodialysis days. Pediatric Patients • Unlike in adults, do NOT administer by injection over a two (2) minute period to pediatric patients . ( 2.1 , 2.7 ) • Administer to pediatric patients intravenously in 0.9% sodium chloride, by infusion over a 30-or 60-minute period, based on age. ( 2.1 , 2.7 ) • Recommended dosage regimen for pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) with cSSSI, based on age ( 2.3 ): Age group Dosage* Duration of therapy 12 to 17 years 5 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes Up to 14 days 7 to 11 years 7 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes 2 to 6 years 9 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes 1 to less than 2 years 10 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes *Recommended dosage is for pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) with normal renal function. Dosage adjustment for pediatric patients with renal impairment has not been established. Recommended dosage regimen for pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) with S. aureus bacteremia, based on age ( 2.5 ): Age group Dosage* Duration of therapy 12 to 17 years 7 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes Up to 42 days 7 to 11 years 9 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes 1 to 6 years 12 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes *Recommended dosage is for pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) with normal renal function. • There are other formulations of daptomycin that have differences concerning storage and reconstitution. Carefully follow the reconstitution and storage procedures in labeling. ( 2.7 ) • Do not use in conjunction with ReadyMED® elastomeric infusion pumps in adult and pediatric patients. ( 2.9 ) 2.1 Important Administration Duration Instructions Adults Administer the appropriate volume of the reconstituted daptomycin for injection (concentration of 50 mg per mL) to adult patients intravenously either by injection over a two (2) minute period or by intravenous infusion over a thirty (30) minute period [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.4 , 2.7 )] . Pediatric Patients (1 to 17 Years of Age) Unlike in adults, do NOT administer Daptomycin for Injection by injection over a two (2) minute period to pediatric patients. Pediatric Patients 7 to 17 years of Age : Administer daptomycin for injection intravenously by infusion over a 30-minute period [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 , 2.5 , 2.7 )] . Pediatric Patients 1 to 6 years of Age : Administer daptomycin for injection intravenously by infusion over a 60-minute period [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 , 2.5 , 2.7 )] . 2.2 Dosage in Adults for cSSSI Administer daptomycin for injection 4 mg/kg to adult patients intravenously in 0.9% sodium chloride injection once every 24 hours for 7 to 14 days. 2.3 Dosage in Pediatric Patients (1 to 17 Years of Age) for cSSSI The recommended dosage regimens based on age for pediatric patients with cSSSI are shown in Table 1. Administer daptomycin for injection intravenously in 0.9% sodium chloride injection once every 24 hours for up to 14 days. Table 1: Recommended Dosage of Daptomycin for Injection in Pediatric Patients (1 to 17 Years of Age) with cSSSI, Based on Age Age Range Dosage Regimen* Duration of therapy 12 to 17 years 5 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes Up to 14 days 7 to 11 years 7 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes 2 to 6 years 9 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes 1 to less than 2 years 10 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes *Recommended dosage regimen is for pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) with normal renal function. 2.4 Dosage in Adult Patients with Staphylococcus aureus Bloodstream Infections (Bacteremia), Including Those with Right-Sided Infective Endocarditis, Caused by Methicillin- Susceptible and Methicillin-Resistant Isolates Administer daptomycin for injection 6 mg/kg to adult patients intravenously in 0.9% sodium chloride injection once every 24 hours for 2 to 6 weeks. There are limited safety data for the use of daptomycin for injection for more than 28 days of therapy. In the Phase 3 trial, there were a total of 14 adult patients who were treated with daptomycin for more than 28 days. 2.5 Dosage in Pediatric Patients (1 to 17 Years of Age) with Staphylococcus aureus Bloodstream Infections (Bacteremia) The recommended dosage regimens based on age for pediatric patients with S. aureus bloodstream infections (bacteremia) are shown in Table 2. Administer daptomycin for injection intravenously in 0.9% sodium chloride injection once every 24 hours for up to 42 days. Table 2: Recommended Dosage of Daptomycin for Injection in Pediatric Patients (1 to 17 Years of Age) with S. aureus Bacteremia, Based on Age Age group Dosage* Duration of therapy 12 to 17 years 7 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes Up to 42 days 7 to 11 years 9 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes 1 to 6 years 12 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes *Recommended dosage is for pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) with normal renal function. 2.6 Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment Adult Patients No dosage adjustment is required in adult patients with creatinine clearance (CL CR ) greater than or equal to 30 mL/min. The recommended dosage regimen for daptomycin for injection in adult patients with CL CR less than 30 mL/min, including adult patients on hemodialysis or continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD), is 4 mg/kg (cSSSI) or 6 mg/kg ( S. aureus bloodstream infections) once every 48 hours (Table 3). When possible, daptomycin for injection should be administered following the completion of hemodialysis on hemodialysis days [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.10 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 3: Recommended Dosage of Daptomycin for Injection in Adult Patients Creatinine Clearance (CL CR ) Dosage Regimen in Adults cSSSI S. aureus Bloodstream Infections Greater than or equal to 30 mL/min 4 mg/kg once every 24 hours 6 mg/kg once every 24 hours Less than 30 mL/min, including hemodialysis and CAPD 4 mg/kg once every 48 hours* 6 mg/kg once every 48 hours* * When possible, administer daptomycin for injection following the completion of hemodialysis on hemodialysis days. Pediatric Patients The dosage regimen for daptomycin for injection in pediatric patients with renal impairment has not been established. 2.7 Preparation and Administration of Daptomycin for Injection There are other formulations of daptomycin that have differences concerning reconstitution and storage. Carefully follow the reconstitution and storage procedures described in this labeling. Reconstitution of Daptomycin for Injection Vial Daptomycin for injection is supplied in single-dose vials, each containing 350 mg daptomycin as a sterile, lyophilized powder. The contents of a daptomycin for injection vial should be reconstituted, using aseptic technique, to 50 mg per mL as follows: 1. To minimize foaming, AVOID vigorous agitation or shaking of the vial during or after reconstitution. 2. Remove the polypropylene flip-off cap from the daptomycin for injection vial to expose the central portion of the rubber stopper. 3. Wipe the top of the rubber stopper with an alcohol swab or other antiseptic solution and allow to dry. After cleaning, do not touch the rubber stopper or allow it to touch any other surface. 4. Slowly transfer 7 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride injection through the center of the rubber stopper into the daptomycin for injection vial, pointing the transfer needle toward the wall of the vial. It is recommended that a beveled sterile transfer needle that is 21 gauge or smaller in diameter, or a needleless device is used, pointing the transfer needle toward the wall of the vial. 5. Ensure that all of the daptomycin for injection powder is wetted by gently rotating the vial. 1. Allow the wetted product to stand undisturbed for 10 minutes. Gently rotate or swirl the vial contents for a few minutes, as needed, to obtain a completely reconstituted solution. Administration Instructions Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter prior to administration. Slowly remove reconstituted liquid (50 mg daptomycin per mL) from the vial using a beveled sterile needle that is 21 gauge or smaller in diameter. Administer as an intravenous injection or infusion as described below: Adults Intravenous Injection over a period of 2 minutes • For intravenous (IV) injection over a period of 2 minutes in adult patients only : Administer the appropriate volume of the reconstituted Daptomycin for Injection (concentration of 50 mg per mL). Intravenous Infusion over a period of 30 minutes • For intravenous (IV) infusion over a period of 30 minutes in adult patients: The appropriate volume of the reconstituted Daptomycin for Injection (concentration of 50 mg per mL) should be further diluted, using aseptic technique, into a 50 mL IV infusion bag containing 0.9% sodium chloride injection. Pediatric Patients (1 to 17 Years of Age) Intravenous Infusion over a period of 30 or 60 minutes • Unlike in Adults, do NOT administer daptomycin for injection by injection over a two (2) minute period to pediatric patients [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )] . • For Intravenous infusion over a period of 60 minutes in pediatric patients 1 to 6 years of age: The appropriate volume of the reconstituted daptomycin for injection (concentration of 50 mg per mL) should be further diluted, using aseptic technique, into an intravenous infusion bag containing 25 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride injection. The infusion rate should be maintained at 0.42 mL/minute over the 60-minute period. • For Intravenous infusion over a period of 30 minutes in pediatric patients 7 to 17 years of age : The appropriate volume of the reconstituted daptomycin for injection (concentration of 50 mg per mL) should be further diluted, using aseptic technique, into a 50 mL IV infusion bag containing 0.9% sodium chloride injection. The infusion rate should be maintained at 1.67 mL/minute over the 30-minute period. No preservative or bacteriostatic agent is present in this product. Aseptic technique must be used in the preparation of final IV solution. Do not exceed the In-Use storage conditions of the reconstituted and diluted solutions of daptomycin for injection described below. Discard unused portions of daptomycin for injection. In-Use Storage Conditions for Daptomycin for Injection Once Reconstituted in Acceptable Intravenous Diluents Stability studies have shown that the reconstituted solution is stable in the vial for 12 hours at room temperature and up to 48 hours if stored under refrigeration between 2° and 8°C (36° and 46°F). The diluted solution is stable in the infusion bag for 12 hours at room temperature and 48 hours if stored under refrigeration. The combined storage time (reconstituted solution in vial and diluted solution in infusion bag) should not exceed 12 hours at room temperature or 48 hours under refrigeration. 2.8 Compatible Intravenous Solutions Daptomycin for injection is compatible with 0.9% sodium chloride injection and Lactated Ringer’s injection. 2.9 Incompatibilities Daptomycin for injection is not compatible with dextrose-containing diluents. Daptomycin for injection should not be used in conjunction with ReadyMED ® elastomeric infusion pumps. Stability studies of daptomycin for injection solutions stored in ReadyMED ® elastomeric infusion pumps identified an impurity (2-mercaptobenzothiazole) leaching from this pump system into the daptomycin for injection solution. Because only limited data are available on the compatibility of daptomycin for injection with other IV substances, additives and other medications should not be added to daptomycin for injection single-dose vials or infusion bags, or infused simultaneously with daptomycin for injection through the same IV line. If the same IV line is used for sequential infusion of different drugs, the line should be flushed with a compatible intravenous solution before and after infusion with daptomycin for injection. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult Patients Administer to adult patients intravenously in 0.9% sodium chloride, either by injection over a 2-minute period or by infusion over a 30-minute period. ( 2.1 , 2.7 ) Recommended dosage regimen for adult patients ( 2.2 , 2.4 , 2.6 ): Creatinine Clearance (CL CR ) Dosage Regimen cSSSI For 7 to 14 days S. aureus Bacteremia For 2 to 6 weeks ≥30 mL/min 4 mg/kg once every 24 hours 6 mg/kg once every 24 hours <30 mL/min, including hemodialysis and CAPD 4 mg/kg once every 48 hours Administered following hemodialysis on hemodialysis days. 6 mg/kg once every 48 hours Pediatric Patients Unlike in adults, do NOT administer by injection over a two (2) minute period to pediatric patients. ( 2.1 , 2.7 ) Administer to pediatric patients intravenously in 0.9% sodium chloride, by infusion over a 30- or 60-minute period, based on age. ( 2.1 , 2.7 ) Recommended dosage regimen for pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) with cSSSI, based on age ( 2.3 ): Age group Dosage Recommended dosage is for pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) with normal renal function. Duration of therapy 12 to 17 years 5 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes Up to 14 days 7 to 11 years 7 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes 2 to 6 years 9 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes 1 to less than 2 years 10 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes Recommended dosage regimen for pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) with S. aureus bacteremia, based on age ( 2.5 ): Age group Dosage Recommended dosage is for pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) with normal renal function. Duration of therapy 12 to 17 years 7 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes Up to 42 days 7 to 11 years 9 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes 1 to 6 years 12 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes There are two formulations of daptomycin that have differences concerning storage and reconstitution. ( 2.7 ) Do not use in conjunction with ReadyMED ® elastomeric infusion pumps in adult and pediatric patients. ( 2.9 ) 2.1 Important Administration Duration Instructions Adults Administer the appropriate volume of the reconstituted daptomycin for injection (concentration of 50 mg/mL) to adult patients intravenously either by injection over a two (2) minute period or by intravenous infusion over a thirty (30) minute period [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.4 , 2.7 )]. Pediatric Patients 1 to 6 Years of Age: Administer daptomycin for injection intravenously by infusion over a 60-minute period [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 , 2.5 , 2.7 )]. 2.3 Dosage in Pediatric Patients (1 to 17 Years of Age) for cSSSI The recommended dosage regimens based on age for pediatric patients with cSSSI are shown in Table 1 . Table 1: Recommended Dosage of Daptomycin for Injection in Pediatric Patients (1 to 17 Years of Age) with cSSSI, Based on Age Age Range Dosage Regimen Recommended dosage regimen is for pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) with normal renal function. Duration of Therapy 12 to 17 years 5 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes Up to 14 days 7 to 11 years 7 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes 2 to 6 years 9 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes 1 to less than 2 years 10 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes 2.4 Dosage in Adult Patients with Staphylococcus aureus Bloodstream Infections (Bacteremia), Including those with Right-Sided Infective Endocarditis, Caused by Methicillin-Susceptible and Methicillin-Resistant Isolates Administer daptomycin for injection 6 mg/kg to adult patients intravenously in 0.9% sodium chloride injection once every 24 hours for 2 to 6 weeks. In the Phase 3 trial, there were a total of 14 adult patients who were treated with daptomycin for injection for more than 28 days. aureus bloodstream infections (bacteremia) are shown in Table 2 . aureus Bacteremia, Based on Age Age Group Dosage Recommended dosage is for pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) with normal renal function. Duration of Therapy 12 to 17 years 7 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes Up to 42 days 7 to 11 years 9 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes 1 to 6 years 12 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes 2.6 Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment Adult Patients No dosage adjustment is required in adult patients with creatinine clearance (CL CR ) greater than or equal to 30 mL/min. aureus bloodstream infections) once every 48 hours ( Table 3 ). When possible, daptomycin for injection should be administered following the completion of hemodialysis, on hemodialysis days [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.10 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . aureus Bloodstream Infections Greater than or equal to 30 mL/min 4 mg/kg once every 24 hours 6 mg/kg once every 24 hours Less than 30 mL/min, including hemodialysis and CAPD 4 mg/kg once every 48 hours When possible, administer daptomycin for injection following the completion of hemodialysis, on hemodialysis days. 6 mg/kg once every 48 hours Pediatric Patients The dosage regimen for daptomycin for injection in pediatric patients with renal impairment has not been established. Reconstitution of Daptomycin for Injection Vial Daptomycin for injection is supplied in single-dose vials, each containing 500 mg daptomycin as a sterile, lyophilized powder. The contents of a daptomycin for injection vial should be reconstituted with 0.9% sodium chloride injection, using aseptic technique, to 50 mg/mL as follows: To minimize foaming, AVOID vigorous agitation or shaking of the vial during or after reconstitution. Slowly transfer 10 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride injection through the center of the rubber stopper into the daptomycin for injection vial, pointing the transfer needle toward the wall of the vial. Slowly remove reconstituted liquid (50 mg daptomycin/mL) from the vial using a beveled sterile needle that is 21 gauge or smaller in diameter. Administer as an intravenous injection or infusion as described below: Adults Intravenous Injection over a period of 2 minutes For intravenous (IV) injection over a period of 2 minutes in adult patients only : Administer the appropriate volume of the reconstituted daptomycin for injection (concentration of 50 mg/mL). Intravenous Infusion over a period of 30 minutes For IV infusion over a period of 30 minutes in adult patients: The appropriate volume of the reconstituted daptomycin for injection (concentration of 50 mg/mL) should be further diluted, using aseptic technique, into a 50 mL IV infusion bag containing 0.9% sodium chloride injection. Pediatric Patients (1 to 17 Years of Age) Intravenous Infusion over a period of 30 or 60 minutes Unlike in Adults, do NOT administer daptomycin for injection by injection over a two (2) minute period to pediatric patients [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )]. For Intravenous infusion over a period of 60 minutes in pediatric patients 1 to 6 years of age: The appropriate volume of the reconstituted daptomycin for injection (concentration of 50 mg/mL) should be further diluted, using aseptic technique, into an intravenous infusion bag containing 25 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride injection. For Intravenous infusion over a period of 30 minutes in pediatric patients 7 to 17 years of age : The appropriate volume of the reconstituted daptomycin for injection (concentration of 50 mg/mL) should be further diluted, using aseptic technique, into a 50 mL IV infusion bag containing 0.9% sodium chloride injection. In-Use Storage Conditions for Daptomycin for Injection Once Reconstituted in Acceptable Intravenous Diluents Stability studies have shown that the reconstituted solution is stable in the vial for 12 hours at room temperature and up to 48 hours if stored under refrigeration at 2˚C to 8˚C (36˚F to 46˚F). 2.8 Compatible Intravenous Solution for Reconstitution and Dilution Daptomycin for injection is compatible with 0.9% sodium chloride injection for reconstitution. Reconstituted daptomycin for injection can only be diluted with 0.9% sodium chloride injection. Stability studies of daptomycin for injection solutions stored in ReadyMED ® elastomeric infusion pumps identified an impurity (2‑mercaptobenzothiazole) leaching from this pump system into the daptomycin for injection solution. If the same IV line is used for sequential infusion of different drugs, the line should be flushed with a compatible intravenous solution before and after infusion with daptomycin for injection ( 2.1 , 2. 7) Recommended dosage regimen for adult patients ( 2.2 , 2.4 , 2.6 ): *Administered following hemodialysis on hemodialysis days. Creatinine Clearance (CL CR ) Dosage Regimen cSSSI For 7 to 14 days S. aureus Bacteremia For 2 to 6 weeks ≥30 mL/min 4 mg/kg once every 24 hours 6 mg/kg once every 24 hours <30 mL/min, including hemodialysis and CAPD 4 mg/kg once every 48 hours* 6 mg/kg once every 48 hours* Pediatric Patients Unlike in adults, do NOT administer by injection over a two (2) minute period to pediatric patients . ( 2.1 , 2.7 ) Recommended dosage regimen for pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) with cSSSI, based on age ( 2.3 ): Age group Dosage* Duration of therapy 12 to 17 years 5 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes Up to 14 days 7 to 11 years 7 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes 2 to 6 years 9 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes 1 to less than 2 years 10 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes *Recommended dosage is for pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) with normal renal function. There are other formulations of daptomycin that have differences concerning storage and reconstitution. ( 2.9 ) 2.1 Important Administration Duration Instructions Adults Administer the appropriate volume of the reconstituted daptomycin for injection (concentration of 50 mg per mL) to adult patients intravenously either by injection over a two (2) minute period or by intravenous infusion over a thirty (30) minute period [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.4 , 2. 7)] . 2.4 Dosage in Adult Patients with Staphylococcus aureus Bloodstream Infections (Bacteremia), Including Those with Right-Sided Infective Endocarditis, Caused by Methicillin-Susceptible and Methicillin-Resistant Isolates Administer daptomycin for injection 6 mg/kg to adult patients intravenously in 0.9% sodium chloride injection once every 24 hours for 2 to 6 weeks. Table 3: Recommended Dosage of Daptomycin for Injection in Adult Patients *When possible, administer daptomycin for injection following the completion of hemodialysis on hemodialysis days. Creatinine Clearance (CL CR ) Dosage Regimen in Adults cSSSI S. aureus Bloodstream Infections Greater than or equal to 30 mL/min 4 mg/kg once every 24 hours 6 mg/kg once every 24 hours Less than 30 mL/min, including hemodialysis and CAPD 4 mg/kg once every 48 hours* 6 mg/kg once every 48 hours* Pediatric Patients The dosage regimen for Daptomycin for Injection in pediatric patients with renal impairment has not been established. The contents of a daptomycin for injection vial should be reconstituted, using aseptic technique, to 50 mg per mL as follows: To minimize foaming, AVOID vigorous agitation or shaking of the vial during or after reconstitution. Administer as an intravenous injection or infusion as described below: Adults Intravenous Injection over a period of 2 minutes For intravenous (IV) injection over a period of 2 minutes in adult patients only : Administer the appropriate volume of the reconstituted daptomycin for injection (concentration of 50 mg per mL). Intravenous Infusion over a period of 30 minutes For intravenous (IV) infusion over a period of 30 minutes in adult patients: The appropriate volume of the reconstituted daptomycin for injection (concentration of 50 mg per mL) should be further diluted, using aseptic technique, into a 50 mL IV infusion bag containing 0.9% sodium chloride injection. Pediatric Patients (1 to 17 Years of Age) Intravenous Infusion over a period of 30 or 60 minutes Unlike in Adults, do NOT administer Daptomycin for Injection by injection over a two (2) minute period to pediatric patients [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )] . For Intravenous infusion over a period of 60 minutes in pediatric patients 1 to 6 years of age: The appropriate volume of the reconstituted Daptomycin for Injection (concentration of 50 mg per mL) should be further diluted, using aseptic technique, into an intravenous infusion bag containing 25 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride injection. For Intravenous infusion over a period of 30 minutes in pediatric patients 7 to 17 years of age : The appropriate volume of the reconstituted Daptomycin for Injection (concentration of 50 mg per mL) should be further diluted, using aseptic technique, into a 50 mL IV infusion bag containing 0.9% sodium chloride injection. 2.8 Compatible Intravenous Solutions Daptomycin for injection is compatible with 0.9% sodium chloride injection and Lactated Ringer's injection. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult Patients • Administer to adult patients intravenously in 0.9% sodium chloride, either by injection over a 2-minute period or by infusion over a 30-minute period. ( 2.1 , 2.5 ) • Recommended dosage regimen for adult patients ( 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 ): Creatinine Clearance (CrCl) Dosage Regimen cSSSI For 7 to 14 days S. 6 mg/kg once every 48 hours • There are other formulations of daptomycin that have differences concerning storage and reconstitution. ( 2.5 ) • Do not use in conjunction with ReadyMED ® elastomeric infusion pumps in adult patients. ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Important Administration Duration Instructions Adults Administer the appropriate volume of the reconstituted Daptomycin for Injection (concentration of 50 mg/mL) to adult patients intravenously either by injection over a two (2) minute period or by intravenous infusion over a thirty (30) minute period [see Dosage and Administration (2.2 , 2.3 , 2.5) ] . 2.3 Dosage in Adult Patients with Staphylococcus aureus Bloodstream Infections (Bacteremia), Including Those with Right-Sided Infective Endocarditis, Caused by Methicillin-Susceptible and Methicillin-Resistant Isolates Administer Daptomycin for Injection 6 mg/kg to adult patients intravenously in 0.9% sodium chloride injection once every 24 hours for 2 to 6 weeks. 2.4 Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment Adult Patients: No dosage adjustment is required in adult patients with creatinine clearance (CL CR ) greater than or equal to 30 mL/min. aureus bloodstream infections) once every 48 hours (Table 1). When possible, Daptomycin for Injection should be administered following the completion of hemodialysis on hemodialysis days [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.10) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Table 1: Recommended Dosage of Daptomycin for Injection in Adult Patients Creatinine Clearance (CL CR ) Dosage Regimen in Adults cSSSI S. aureus Bloodstream Infections Greater than or equal to 30 mL/min 4 mg/kg once every 24 hours 6 mg/kg once every 24 hours Less than 30 mL/min, including hemodialysis and CAPD 4 mg/kg once every 48 hours When possible, administer Daptomycin for Injection following the completion of hemodialysis on hemodialysis days. 6 mg/kg once every 48 hours Pediatric Patients: The dosage regimen for Daptomycin for Injection in pediatric patients with renal impairment has not been established. 2.5 Preparation and Administration of Daptomycin for Injection There are other formulations of daptomycin that have differences concerning reconstitution and storage. Reconstitution of Daptomycin for Injection Vial Daptomycin for Injection is supplied in single-dose vials, each containing 350 mg or 500 mg daptomycin as a sterile, lyophilized powder. The contents of a Daptomycin for Injection vial should be reconstituted, using aseptic technique, to 50 mg/mL as follows: • To minimize foaming, AVOID vigorous agitation or shaking of the vial during or after reconstitution. • Remove the polypropylene flip-off cap from the Daptomycin for Injection vial to expose the central portion of the rubber stopper. • Pierce the center of the rubber stopper with the syringe needle and GENTLY inject 10 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride injection directly over the Daptomycin for Injection 500 mg drug product or 7 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride injection directly over the Daptomycin for Injection 350 mg drug product. Release the syringe plunger and allow the syringe plunger to equalize the pressure before removing the syringe from the vial. • Hold the vial by the vial neck, tilt the vial and swirl vial contents until the product is completely reconstituted. Slowly remove reconstituted liquid (concentration of 50 mg daptomycin/mL) from the vial using a beveled sterile needle that is 21 gauge or smaller in diameter. Administer as an intravenous injection or infusion as described below: Adults Intravenous Injection over a period of 2 minutes • For intravenous (IV) injection over a period of 2 minutes in adult patients only: Administer the appropriate volume of the reconstituted Daptomycin for Injection (concentration of 50 mg/mL). Intravenous Infusion over a period of 30 minutes • For IV infusion over a period of 30 minutes in adult patients: The appropriate volume of the reconstituted Daptomycin for Injection (concentration of 50 mg/mL) should be further diluted, using aseptic technique, into a 50 mL IV infusion bag containing 0.9% sodium chloride injection. In-Use Storage Conditions for Daptomycin for Injection Once Reconstituted in Acceptable Intravenous Diluents Stability studies have shown that the reconstituted solution is stable in the vial for 12 hours at room temperature under normal room light and up to 48 hours if stored under refrigeration protected from light at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F). The diluted solution is stable in the infusion bag for 12 hours under normal room light at room temperature and 48 hours (Lactated Ringer's) or 10 days (0.9% sodium chloride) if stored under refrigeration protected from light. For Lactated Ringer's diluent, the combined storage time (reconstituted solution in vial and diluted solution in infusion bag) should not exceed 12 hours at room temperature or 48 hours under refrigeration. For 0.9% sodium chloride diluent, the combined storage time (reconstituted solution in vial and diluted solution in infusion bag) should not exceed 12 hours at room temperature or 10 days under refrigeration. 2.6 Compatible Intravenous Solutions Daptomycin for Injection is compatible with 0.9% sodium chloride injection for reconstitution. Reconstituted Daptomycin for Injection can be diluted with 0.9% sodium chloride injection or Lactated Ringer's injection. 2.7 Incompatibilities Daptomycin for injection is not compatible with dextrose-containing diluents. ( 2.9 ) 2.1 Important Administration Duration Instructions Adults Administer the appropriate volume of the reconstituted Daptomycin for injection (concentration of 50 mg/mL) to adult patients intravenously either by injection over a two (2) minute period or by intravenous infusion over a thirty (30) minute period [see Dosage and Administration (2.2 , 2.4 , 2.7) ] . Pediatric Patients (1 to 17 Years of Age) Unlike in adults, do NOT administer Daptomycin for injection over a two (2) minute period to pediatric patients. Pediatric Patients 7 to 17 years of Age: Administer Daptomycin for injection intravenously by infusion over a 30-minute period [see Dosage and Administration (2.3 , 2.5 , 2.7) ] . Pediatric Patients 1 to 6 years of Age: Administer Daptomycin for injection intravenously by infusion over a 60-minute period [see Dosage and Administration (2.3 , 2.5 , 2.7) ] . Duration of therapy 12 to 17 years 7 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes Up to 42 days 7 to 11 years 9 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes 1 to 6 years 12 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes 2.6 Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment Adult Patients : No dosage adjustment is required in adult patients with creatinine clearance (CL CR ) greater than or equal to 30 mL/min. When possible, Daptomycin for injection should be administered following the completion of hemodialysis, on hemodialysis days [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.10) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Pediatric Patients (1 to 17 Years of Age) Intravenous Infusion over a period of 30 or 60 minutes Unlike in Adults, do NOT administer Daptomycin for injection by injection over a two (2) minute period to pediatric patients [ see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . In-Use Storage Conditions for Daptomycin for Injection Once Reconstituted in Acceptable Intravenous Diluents Stability studies have shown that the reconstituted solution is stable in the vial for 12 hours at room temperature and up to 48 hours if stored under refrigeration at 2°C to 8°C (36 to 46°F). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult Patients Administer to adult patients intravenously, either by injection over a 2-minute period or by infusion over a 30-minute period. ( 2.1 , 2.7 ) Administer to pediatric patients intravenously by infusion over a 30- or 60-minute period, based on age. Duration of therapy 12 to 17 years 7 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes Up to 42 days 7 to 11 years 9 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes 1 to 6 years 12 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes There are other formulations of daptomycin that have differences concerning storage and reconstitution. Carefully follow the reconstitution and storage procedures in this labeling. Pediatric Patients 7 to 17 years of Age : Administer Daptomycin for Injection intravenously by infusion over a 30-minute period [see Dosage and Administration (2.3 , 2.5 , 2.7) ] . 2.2 Dosage in Adults for cSSSI Administer Daptomycin for Injection 4 mg/kg to adult patients intravenously once every 24 hours for 7 to 14 days. Administer Daptomycin for Injection intravenously once every 24 hours for up to 14 days. Duration of therapy 12 to 17 years 5 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes Up to 14 days 7 to 11 years 7 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes 2 to 6 years 9 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes 1 to less than 2 years 10 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes 2.4 Dosage in Adult Patients with Staphylococcus aureus Bloodstream Infections (Bacteremia), Including Those with Right-Sided Infective Endocarditis, Caused by Methicillin-Susceptible and Methicillin-Resistant Isolates Administer Daptomycin for Injection 6 mg/kg to adult patients intravenously once every 24 hours for 2 to 6 weeks. Duration of therapy 12 to 17 years 7 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes Up to 42 days 7 to 11 years 9 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes 1 to 6 years 12 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes 2.6 Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment Adult Patients: No dosage adjustment is required in adult patients with creatinine clearance (CL CR ) greater than or equal to 30 mL/min. 6 mg/kg once every 48 hours Pediatric Patients : The dosage regimen for Daptomycin for Injection in pediatric patients with renal impairment has not been established. Reconstitution of Daptomycin for Injection Vial Daptomycin for Injection must be reconstituted within the vial only with either Sterile Water for Injection or Bacteriostatic Water for Injection. Do NOT use saline based diluents for the reconstitution in the vial because this will result in a hyperosmotic solution that may result in infusion site reactions if the reconstituted product is administered as an intravenous injection over a period of 2 minutes. Daptomycin for Injection is supplied in single-dose vials, each containing 500 mg daptomycin as a sterile, lyophilized powder. The contents of a Daptomycin for Injection vial should be reconstituted, using aseptic technique, to 50 mg/mL as follows: Remove the polypropylene flip-off cap from the Daptomycin for Injection vial to expose the central portion of the rubber stopper. Transfer 10 mL of Sterile Water for Injection or Bacteriostatic Water for Injection through the center of the rubber stopper into the Daptomycin for Injection, 500 mg vial. Use a beveled sterile transfer needle that is 21 gauge or smaller in diameter, pointing the transfer needle toward the wall of the vial. Rotate or swirl the vial contents for a few minutes, as needed, to obtain a completely reconstituted solution. Pediatric Patients (1 to 17 Years of Age) Intravenous Infusion over a period of 30 or 60 minutes Unlike in Adults, do NOT administer Daptomycin for Injection by injection over a two (2) minute period to pediatric patients [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . Table 4 below provides in-use storage conditions for reconstituted Daptomycin for Injection in acceptable intravenous diluents in the syringe, vial and intravenous bag (for reconstitution and dilution). Do not exceed the listed shelf-life of reconstituted and diluted solutions of Daptomycin for Injection. Table 4: In-Use Storage Conditions for Daptomycin for Injection Once Reconstituted in Acceptable Intravenous Diluents Container Diluent In-Use Shelf-Life Room Temperature (20°C to 25°C, 68°F to 77°F) Refrigerated (2°C to 8°C, 36°F to 46°F) Vial Sterile Water for Injection 1 Day 3 Days Bacteriostatic Water for Injection 2 Days 3 Days Syringe Polypropylene syringe with elastomeric plunger stopper. Sterile Water for Injection 1 Day 3 Days Bacteriostatic Water for Injection 2 Days 5 Days Intravenous Bag Vial reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection and immediately diluted with 0.9% sodium chloride injection 19 Hours 3 Days Vial reconstituted with Bacteriostatic Water for Injection and immediately diluted with 0.9% sodium chloride injection 2 Days 5 Days 2.8 Compatible Intravenous Solutions Reconstituted Daptomycin for Injection is compatible with Sterile Water for Injection, Bacteriostatic Water for Injection, and 0.9% sodium chloride injection. [See Dosage and Administration (2.7) .] 2.9 Incompatibilities Daptomycin for Injection is not compatible with dextrose-containing diluents. Because only limited data are available on the compatibility of Daptomycin for Injection with other IV substances, additives and other medications should not be added to Daptomycin for Injection single-dose vials or infusion bags or infused simultaneously with Daptomycin for Injection through the same IV line. ( 2.1 , 2.7 ) Recommended dosage regimen for adult patients ( 2.2 , 2.4 , 2.6 ): Creatinine Clearance (CLCR) Dosage Regimen cSSSI For 7 to 14 days S. aureus Bacteremia For 2 to 6 weeks ≥30 mL/min 4 mg/kg once every 24 hours 6 mg/kg once every 24 hours <30 mL/min, including hemodialysis and CAPD 4 mg/kg once every 48 hours* 6 mg/kg once every 48 hours* * Administered following hemodialysis on hemodialysis days. Pediatric Patients Unlike in adults, do NOT administer by injection over a two (2) minute period to pediatric patients . ( 2.1 , 2.7 ) Administer to pediatric patients intravenously in 0.9% sodium chloride, by infusion over a 30-or 60-minute period, based on age. ( 2.1 , 2.7 ) Recommended dosage regimen for pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) with cSSSI, based on age ( 2.3 ): Age group Dosage* Duration of therapy 12 to 17 years 5 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes Up to 14 days 7 to 11 years 7 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes 2 to 6 years 9 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes 1 to less than 2 years 10 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes * Recommended dosage is for pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) with normal renal function. There are two formulations of daptomycin that have differences concerning storage and reconstitution. ( 2.7 ). Do not use in conjunction with ReadyMED ® elastomeric infusion pumps in adult and pediatric patients. ( 2.9 ). 2.1 Important Administration Duration Instructions Adults: Administer the appropriate volume of the reconstituted daptomycin for injection (concentration of 50 mg/mL) to adult patients intravenously either by injection over a two ( 2 ) minute period or by intravenous infusion over a thirty (30) minute period. [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2, 2.4 , 2.7 )]. Pediatric Patients (1 to 17 Years of Age) Unlike in adults, do NOT administer daptomycin by injection over a two (2) minute period to pediatric patients. Pediatric Patients 7 to 17 years of Age: Administer daptomycin for injection intravenously by infusion over a 30-minute period [see Dosage and Administration (2.3, 2.5, 2.7)]. Pediatric Patients 1 to 6 years of Age: Administer daptomycin for injection intravenously by infusion over a 60-minute period [see Dosage and Administration (2.3, 2.5, 2.7)]. Administer daptomycin intravenously in 0.9% sodium chloride injection once every 24 hours for up to 14 days. 2.4 Dosage in Adult Patients with Staphylococcus aureus Bloodstream Infections (Bacteremia), Including Those with Right-Sided Infective Endocarditis, Caused by Methicillin-Susceptible and Methicillin-Resistant Isolates Administer daptomycin for injection 6 mg/kg to adult patients intravenously in 0.9% sodium chloride injection once every 24 hours for 2 to 6 weeks.There are limited safety data for the use of daptomycin for injection for more than 28 days of therapy. 2.6 Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment Adult Patients: No dosage adjustment is required in adult patients with creatinine clearance (CLCR) greater than or equal to 30 mL/min. The recommended dosage regimen for daptomycin for injection in adult patients with CLCR less than 30 mL/min, including adult patients on hemodialysis or continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD), is 4 mg/kg (cSSSI) or 6 mg/kg ( S. When possible, daptomycin for injection should be administered following the completion of hemodialysis on hemodialysis days [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.10 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Table 3: Recommended Dosage of Daptomycin for Injection in Adult Patients Creatinin e Clearance(CL CR ) Dosage Regimen in Adults cSSSI S. aureus Bloods tream Infections Greater than or equal to 30 mL/min 4 mg/kg once every 24 hours 6 mg/kg once every 24 hours Less than 30 mL/min, including hemodialysis and CAPD 4 mg/kg once every 48 hours* 6 mg/kg once every 48 hours* * When possible, administer daptomycin for injection following the completion of hemodialysis on hemodialysis days. Pediatric Patients: The dosage regimen for daptomycin for injection in pediatric patients with renal impairment has not been established. Reconstitution of Daptomycin for Injection Vial Daptomycin for injection is supplied in single-dose vials, each containing 500 mg daptomycin as a sterile, lyophilized cake or powder. The contents of a daptomycin for injection vial should be reconstituted with 0.9 % sodium chloride injection, using aseptic technique, to 50 mg/mL as follows: 1. Pediatric Patients (1 to 17 Years of Age) Intravenous Infusion over a period of 30 or 60 minutes Unlike in Adults, do NOT administer daptomycin by injection over a two (2) minute period to pediatric patients [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)]. For Intravenous infusion over a period of 30 minutes in pediatric patients 7 to 17 years of age: The appropriate volume of the reconstituted daptomycin for injection (concentration of 50 mg/mL) should be further diluted, using aseptic technique, into a 50 mL IV infusion bag containing 0.9% sodium chloride injection. In-Use Storage Conditions for Daptomycin for Injection Once Reconstituted in Acceptable Intravenous Diluents Stability studies have shown that the reconstituted solution is stable in the vial for 12 hours at room temperature and up to 48 hours if stored under refrigeration at 2 to 8°C (36 to 46°F). 2.8 Compatible Intravenous Solutions for Reconstitution and Dilution Daptomycin for injection is compatible with 0.9% sodium chloride injection for reconstitution. Reconstituted Daptomycin injection can only be diluted with 0.9% sodium chloride injection. ( 2.1 , 2.7 ) • Recommended dosage regimen for adult patients ( 2.2 , 2.4 , 2.6 ): Creatinine Clearance (CL CR ) Dosage Regimen cSSSI For 7 to 14 days S. aureus Bacteremia For 2 to 6 weeks ≥30 mL/min 4 mg/kg once every 24 hours 6 mg/kg once every 24 hours ˂30 mL/min, including hemodialysis and CAPD 4 mg/kg once every 48 hours* 6 mg/kg once every 48 hours* *Administer following hemodialysis on hemodialysis days. Pediatric Patients • Unlike in adults, do NOT administer by injection over a two (2) minute period to pediatric patients. ( 2.1 , 2.7 ) • Recommended dosage regimen for pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) with cSSSI, based on age ( 2.3 ): Age group Dosage* Duration of therapy 12 to 17 years 5 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes Up to 14 days 7 to 11 years 7 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes 2 to 6 years 9 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes Age group Dosage* Duration of therapy 1 to less than 2 years 10 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes Up to 14 days *Recommended dosage is for pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) with normal renal function. • Recommended dosage regimen for pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) with S. aureus bacteremia, based on age (2.5): Age group Dosage* Duration of therapy 12 to 17 years 7 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes Up to 42 days 7 to 11 years 9 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes 1 to 6 years 12 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes *Recommended dosage is for pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) with normal renal function. • There are two formulations of daptomycin that have differences concerning storage and reconstitution. ( 2.7 ) • Do not use in conjunction with ReadyMED ® elastomeric infusion pumps in adult and pediatric patients. • Pediatric Patients 7 to 17 years of Age: Administer daptomycin for injection intravenously by infusion over a 30-minute period [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 , 2.5 , 2.7 )]. • Pediatric Patients 1 to 6 years of Age: Administer daptomycin for injection intravenously by infusion over a 60-minute period [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 , 2.5 , 2.7 )]. 2.6 Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment Adult Patients: No dosage adjustment is required in adult patients with creatinine clearance (CL CR ) greater than or equal to 30 mL/min. When possible, daptomycin for injection should be administered following the completion of hemodialysis, on hemodialysis days [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.10 ), Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. aureus Bloodstream Infections Greater than or equal to 30 mL/min 4 mg/kg once every 24 hours 6 mg/kg once every 24 hours Less than 30 mL/min, including hemodialysis and CAPD 4 mg/kg once every 48 hours* 6 mg/kg once every 48 hours* *When possible, administer daptomycin for injection following the completion of hemodialysis, on hemodialysis days. The contents of a daptomycin for injection vial should be reconstituted with 0.9% sodium chloride injection, using aseptic technique, to 50 mg/mL as follows: 1. To minimizefoaming, AVOID vigorous agitation or shaking of the vial during or after reconstitution. Pediatric Patients (1 to 17 Years of Age) Intravenous Infusion over a period of 30 or 60 minutes • Unlike in Adults, do NOT administer daptomycin by injection over a two (2) minute period to pediatric patients [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ]. • For Intravenous infusion over a period of 60 minutes in pediatric patients 1 to 6 years of age: The appropriate volume of the reconstituted daptomycin for injection (concentration of 50 mg/mL) should be further diluted, using aseptic technique, into an intravenous infusion bag containing 25 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride injection. • For Intravenous infusion over a period of 30 minutes in pediatric patients 7 to 17 years of age: The appropriate volume of the reconstituted daptomycin for injection (concentration of 50 mg/mL) should be further diluted, using aseptic technique, into a 50 mL IV infusion bag containing 0.9% sodium chloride injection. 2.8 Compatible Intravenous Solution for Reconstitution and Daptomycin for injection is compatible with 0.9% sodium chloride injection for reconstitution. Daptomycin for injection should not be used in conjunction with Ready MED ® elastomeric infusion pumps. Stability studies of daptomycin for injection solutions stored in Ready MED ® elastomeric infusion pumps identified an impurity (2-mercaptobenzothiazole) leaching from this pump system into the daptomycin for injection solution. Duration of therapy 12 to 17 years 5 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes 7 to 11 years 7 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes Up to 14 days 2 to 6 years 9 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes 1 to less than 2 years 10 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes 2.4 Dosage in Adult Patients with Staphylococcus aureus Bloodstream Infections (Bacteremia), Including Those with Right-Sided Infective Endocarditis, Caused by Methicillin-Susceptible and Methicillin-Resistant Isolates Administer Daptomycin for Injection 6 mg/kg to adult patients intravenously in 0.9% sodium chloride injection once every 24 hours for 2 to 6 weeks. Duration of therapy 12 to 17 years 7 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes 7 to 11 years 9 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 30 minutes Up to 42 days 1 to 6 years 12 mg/kg once every 24 hours infused over 60 minutes 2.6 Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment Adult Patients: No dosage adjustment is required in adult patients with creatinine clearance (CL CR ) greater than or equal to 30 mL/min. 6 mg/kg once every 48 hours Pediatric Patients: The dosage regimen for Daptomycin for Injection in pediatric patients with renal impairment has not been established . In-Use Storage Conditions for Daptomycin for Injection Once Reconstituted in Acceptable Intravenous Diluents Stability studies have shown that the reconstituted solution is stable in the vial for 12 hours at room temperature and up to 48 hours if stored under refrigeration at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F).
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Daptomycin for injection is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to daptomycin. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. • Known hypersensitivity to daptomycin ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Daptomycin for injection is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to daptomycin [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Known hypersensitivity to daptomycin ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Daptomycin for Injection is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to daptomycin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Daptomycin for Injection is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to daptomycin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Known hypersensitivity to daptomycin. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Daptomycin for injection is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to daptomycin [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. . • ­Known hypersensitivity to daptomycin (4)
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors In healthy adult subjects, concomitant administration of daptomycin and simvastatin had no effect on plasma trough concentrations of simvastatin, and there were no reports of skeletal myopathy [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . However, inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase may cause myopathy, which is manifested as muscle pain or weakness associated with elevated levels of creatine phosphokinase (CPK). In the adult Phase 3 S. aureus bacteremia/endocarditis trial, some patients who received prior or concomitant treatment with an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor developed elevated CPK [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . Experience with the coadministration of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors and daptomycin in patients is limited; therefore, consideration should be given to suspending use of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors temporarily in patients receiving daptomycin. 7.2 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions Clinically relevant plasma concentrations of daptomycin have been observed to cause a significant concentration-dependent false prolongation of prothrombin time (PT) and elevation of International Normalized Ratio (INR) when certain recombinant thromboplastin reagents are utilized for the assay. The possibility of an erroneously elevated PT/INR result due to interaction with a recombinant thromboplastin reagent may be minimized by drawing specimens for PT or INR testing near the time of trough plasma concentrations of daptomycin. However, sufficient daptomycin concentrations may be present at trough to cause interaction. If confronted with an abnormally high PT/INR result in a patient being treated with daptomycin, it is recommended that clinicians: Repeat the assessment of PT/INR, requesting that the specimen be drawn just prior to the next daptomycin dose (i.e., at trough concentration). If the PT/INR value obtained at trough remains substantially elevated above what would otherwise be expected, consider evaluating PT/INR utilizing an alternative method. Evaluate for other causes of abnormally elevated PT/INR results. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors In healthy adult subjects, concomitant administration of daptomycin for injection and simvastatin had no effect on plasma trough concentrations of simvastatin, and there were no reports of skeletal myopathy [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Experience with the coadministration of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors and daptomycin for injection in patients is limited; therefore, consideration should be given to suspending use of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors temporarily in patients receiving daptomycin for injection. If confronted with an abnormally high PT/INR result in a patient being treated with daptomycin for injection, it is recommended that clinicians: Repeat the assessment of PT/INR, requesting that the specimen be drawn just prior to the next daptomycin for injection dose (i.e., at trough concentration). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors In healthy adult subjects, concomitant administration of daptomycin and simvastatin had no effect on plasma trough concentrations of simvastatin, and there were no reports of skeletal myopathy [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. aureus bacteremia/endocarditis trial, some patients who received prior or concomitant treatment with an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor developed elevated CPK [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Experience with the co-administration of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors and daptomycin in patients is limited; therefore, consideration should be given to suspending use of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors temporarily in patients receiving Daptomycin for Injection. If confronted with an abnormally high PT/INR result in a patient being treated with daptomycin, it is recommended that clinicians: 1. Repeat the assessment of PT/INR, requesting that the specimen be drawn just prior to the next Daptomycin for Injection dose (i.e., at trough concentration). 2. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors In healthy adult subjects, concomitant administration of Daptomycin for injection and simvastatin had no effect on plasma trough concentrations of simvastatin, and there were no reports of skeletal myopathy [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . aureus bacteremia/endocarditis trial, some patients who received prior or concomitant treatment with an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor developed elevated CPK [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors In healthy adult subjects, concomitant administration of daptomycin for injection and simvastatin had no effect on plasma trough concentrations of simvastatin, and there were no reports of skeletal myopathy [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. aureus bacteremia/endocarditis trial, some patients who received prior or concomitant treatment with an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor developed elevated CPK [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. Repeat the assessment of PT/INR, requesting that the specimen be drawn just prior to the next daptomycin dose (i.e., at trough concentration).

=== ETHYL ALCOHOL 70% ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antimicrobial
Indications: Uses for handwashing to decrease bacteria on the skin recommended for repeated use
Dosage: Directions wet hands thoroughly with product briskly rub hands together until dry supervise children under 6 years in the use of this product
Warnings: Warnings For ecternal use only Flammable, keep away from heat and flame Do not use Do not use in the eyes. In case of contact, rinse eyes thoroughly with water. Stop use and ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation and redness develop and persist for more than 72 hours. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Flammable, keep away from heat and flame Do not use Do not use in the eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation and redness develop and persist for more than 72 hours. Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.

=== HYDROXYCHLOROQUINE SULFATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets are an antimalarial and antirheumatic indicated for the: Treatment of uncomplicated malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum, Plasmodium malariae, Plasmodium ovale, and Plasmodium vivax in adult and pediatric patients. ( 1.1 ) Prophylaxis of malaria in geographic areas where chloroquine resistance is not reported in adult and pediatric patients. ( 1.1 ) Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis in adults. ( 1.2 ) Treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus in adults. ( 1.3 ) Treatment of chronic discoid lupus erythematosus in adults. ( 1.4 ) Limitations of Use ( 1.1 ): Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets are not recommended for the: Treatment of complicated malaria. Treatment of chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine-resistant strains of Plasmodium species. Treatment of malaria acquired in geographic areas where chloroquine resistance occurs or when the Plasmodium species has not been identified. Prophylaxis of malaria in geographic areas where chloroquine resistance occurs. Prevention of relapses of P. vivax or P. ovale because it is not active against the hypnozoite liver stage forms of these parasites. For radical cure of P. vivax and P. ovale infections, concomitant therapy with an 8-aminoquinoline drug is necessary. 1.1 Malaria Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets are indicated in adult and pediatric patient for the: Treatment of uncomplicated malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum, Plasmodium malariae, Plasmodium vivax, and Plasmodium ovale. Prophylaxis of malaria in geographic areas where chloroquine resistance is not reported. Limitations of Use : Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets are not recommended for: Treatment of complicated malaria. Treatment of malaria by chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine-resistant strains of Plasmodium species [see Microbiology (12.4) ]. ovale infections, concomitant therapy with an 8-aminoquinoline drug is necessary [see Microbiology (12.4) ]. For the most current information about drug resistance, refer to the latest recommendations from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention1. 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets are indicated for the treatment of acute and chronic rheumatoid arthritis in adults. 1.3 Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets are indicated for the treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus in adults. 1.4 Chronic Discoid Lupus Erythematosus Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets are indicated for the treatment of chronic discoid lupus erythematosus in adults. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets are an antimalarial and antirheumatic indicated for the: • Treatment of uncomplicated malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum, Plasmodium malariae, Plasmodium ovale , and Plasmodium vivax in adult and pediatric patients. ( 1.1 ) • Prophylaxis of malaria in geographic areas where chloroquine resistance is not reported in adult and pediatric patients. ( 1.1 ) • Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis in adults. ( 1.2 ) • Treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus in adults. ( 1.3 ) • Treatment of chronic discoid lupus erythematosus in adults. ( 1.4 ) Limitations of Use ( 1.1 ): Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets are not recommended for the: • Treatment of complicated malaria. • Treatment of chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine-resistant strains of Plasmodium species. • Treatment of malaria acquired in geographic areas where chloroquine resistance occurs or when the Plasmodium species has not been identified. • Prophylaxis of malaria in geographic areas where chloroquine resistance occurs. • Prevention of relapses of P. 1.1 Malaria Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets are indicated in adult and pediatric patients for the: • Treatment of uncomplicated malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum, Plasmodium malariae, Plasmodium vivax , and Plasmodium ovale . • Prophylaxis of malaria in geographic areas where chloroquine resistance is not reported. Limitations of Use: Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets are not recommended for: • Treatment of complicated malaria. • Treatment of malaria by chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine-resistant strains of Plasmodium species [see Microbiology (12.4) ]. For the most current information about drug resistance, refer to the latest recommendations from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention 1 . 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets are an antimalarial and antirheumatic indicated for the: • Treatment of uncomplicated malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum, Plasmodium malariae, Plasmodium ovale , and Plasmodium vivax in adult and pediatric patients. (1.1) • Prophylaxis of malaria in geographic areas where chloroquine resistance is not reported in adult and pediatric patients (1.1) • Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis in adults. (1.2) • Treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus in adults. (1.3) • Treatment of chronic discoid lupus erythematosus in adults. (1.4) Limitations of Use (1.1): Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets are not recommended for the: • Treatment of complicated malaria. 1.1 Malaria Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets are indicated in adult and pediatric patients for the: • Treatment of uncomplicated malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum, Plasmodium malariae, Plasmodium vivax, and Plasmodium ovale. ovale infections, concomitant therapy with an 8-aminoquinoline drug is necessary [see Microbiology (12.4) ] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets is an antimalarial and antirheumatic indicated for the: Treatment of uncomplicated malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum, Plasmodium malariae, Plasmodium ovale, and Plasmodium vivax in adult and pediatric patients. ( 1.4 ) Limitations of Use (1.1): Hydroxychloroquine sulfate Tablets is not recommended for the: Treatment of complicated malaria. 1.1 Malaria Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablet is indicated in adult and pediatric patients for the: Treatment of uncomplicated malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum, Plasmodium malariae, Plasmodium vivax, and Plasmodium ovale. Limitations of Use: Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablet is not recommended for: Treatment of complicated malaria. Treatment of malaria by chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine-resistant strains of Plasmodium species [see Microbiology ( 12.4 )]. ovale infections, concomitant therapy with an 8-aminoquinoline drug is necessary [see Microbiology ( 12.4 )]. 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablet is indicated for the treatment of acute and chronic rheumatoid arthritis in adults. 1.3 Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablet is indicated for the treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus in adults. 1.4 Chronic Discoid Lupus Erythematosus Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablet is indicated for the treatment of chronic discoid lupus erythematosus in adults. (1.1) Prophylaxis of malaria in geographic areas where chloroquine resistance is not reported in adult and pediatric patients. (1.1) Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis in adults. (1.2) Treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus in adults. (1.3) Treatment of chronic discoid lupus erythematosus in adults. (1.4) Limitations of Use (1.1): Hydroxychloroquine Sulfate Tablets are not recommended for the: Treatment of complicated malaria. 1.1 Malaria Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets are indicated in adult and pediatric patients for the: Treatment of uncomplicated malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum, Plasmodium malariae, Plasmodium vivax, and Plasmodium ovale . Limitations of Use: Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets are not recommended for: Treatment of complicated malaria. Treatment of malaria by chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine-resistant strains of Plasmodium species [see Microbiology(12.4)] . ovale infections, concomitant therapy with an 8-aminoquinoline drug is necessary [ see Microbiology (12.4)]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydroxychloroquine sulfate is an antimalarial and antirheumatic indicated for the: Treatment of uncomplicated malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum, Plasmodium malariae, Plasmodium ovale, and Plasmodium vivax in adult and pediatric patients. ( 1.4 ) Limitations of Use ( 1.1 ): Hydroxychloroquine sulfate is not recommended for the: Treatment of complicated malaria. 1.1 Malaria Hydroxychloroquine sulfate is indicated in adult and pediatric patients for the: Treatment of uncomplicated malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum, Plasmodium malariae, Plasmodium vivax, and Plasmodium ovale. Limitations of Use: Hydroxychloroquine sulfate is not recommended for: Treatment of complicated malaria. For the most current information about drug resistance, refer to the latest recommendations from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention 1. 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis Hydroxychloroquine sulfate is indicated for the treatment of acute and chronic rheumatoid arthritis in adults. 1.3 Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Hydroxychloroquine sulfate is indicated for the treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus in adults. 1.4 Chronic Discoid Lupus Erythematosus Hydroxychloroquine sulfate is indicated for the treatment of chronic discoid lupus erythematosus in adults. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE PLAQUENIL is an antimalarial and antirheumatic indicated for the: • Treatment of uncomplicated malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum, Plasmodium malariae, Plasmodium ovale , and Plasmodium vivax in adult and pediatric patients. (1.1) • Prophylaxis of malaria in geographic areas where chloroquine resistance is not reported in adult and pediatric patients. (1.1) • Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis in adults. (1.4) Limitations of Use (1.1): PLAQUENIL is not recommended for the: • Treatment of complicated malaria. 1.1 Malaria PLAQUENIL is indicated in adult and pediatric patients for the: • Treatment of uncomplicated malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum, Plasmodium malariae, Plasmodium vivax, and Plasmodium ovale. Limitations of Use: PLAQUENIL is not recommended for: • Treatment of complicated malaria. 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis PLAQUENIL is indicated for the treatment of acute and chronic rheumatoid arthritis in adults. 1.3 Systemic Lupus Erythematosus PLAQUENIL is indicated for the treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus in adults. 1.4 Chronic Discoid Lupus Erythematosus PLAQUENIL is indicated for the treatment of chronic discoid lupus erythematosus in adults.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Malaria in Adult and Pediatric Patients ( 2.2 ): ● Prophylaxis: Begin weekly doses 2 weeks prior to travel to the endemic area, continue weekly doses while in the endemic area, and continue the weekly doses for 4 weeks after leaving the endemic area: - Adults: 400 mg once a week - Pediatric patients ≥ 31 kg: 6.5 mg/kg up to 400 mg, once a week ● Treatment of Uncomplicated Malaria: See Full Prescribing Information (FPI) for complete dosing information. Rheumatoid Arthritis in Adults ( 2.3 ): Initial dosage: 400 mg to 600 mg daily Chronic dosage: 200 mg once daily or 400 mg once daily (or in two divided doses) Systemic Lupus Erythematosus in Adults ( 2.4 ): 200 mg once daily or 400 mg once daily (or in two divided doses) Chronic Discoid Lupus Erythematosus in Adults ( 2.5 ): 200 mg once daily or 400 mg once daily (or in two divided doses) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Administer hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets orally with food or milk. Do not crush or divide the tablets. 2.2 Dosage for Malaria in Adult and Pediatric Patients Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets are not recommended in pediatric patients less than 31 kg because the lowest available strength (200 mg) exceeds the recommended dose for these patients and it cannot be divided. Prophylaxis Treatment must start 2 weeks before travel to an endemic area. Advise the patient to take the prophylaxis dosage once a week, staring 2 weeks prior to travel to the endemic area, on the same day every week, continuing the same weekly dose while in the endemic area, and for 4 weeks after leaving the endemic area. The recommended prophylaxis dosage is: Adult patients: 400 mg once a week Pediatric patients ≥ 31kg: 6.5 mg/kg actual body weight (up to 400 mg) once a week Treatment of Uncomplicated Malaria The dosages for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria are: Adult patients: Administer 800 mg initially; subsequently administer 400 mg at 6 hours, 24 hours, and 48 hours after the initial dose (total dosage = 2000 mg). Pediatric patients ≥ 31 kg: Administer 13 mg/kg (up to 800 mg) initially; subsequently administer 6.5 mg/kg (up to 400 mg) at 6 hours, 24 hours, and 48 hours after the initial dose (total dosage = 31 mg/kg - up to 2000 mg). For radical cure of P. vivax and P. ovale infections, concomitant therapy with an 8-aminoquinoline drug is necessary [see Microbiology (12.4) ]. 2.3 Dosage for Rheumatoid Arthritis in Adults The recommended dosage is: Initial dosage: 400 mg to 600 mg daily as a single daily dose or two divided doses. The action of hydroxychloroquine is cumulative and may require weeks to months for maximum therapeutic effect. Daily doses exceeding 5 mg/kg (actual weight) of hydroxychloroquine sulfate increase the incidence of retinopathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Chronic dosage: 200 mg once daily to 400 mg daily, as a single dose or two divided doses. Corticosteroids, salicylates, and other antirheumatic agents may be used concomitantly with hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets. 2.4 Dosage for Systemic Lupus Erythematosus in Adults The recommended dosage is 200 mg given once daily, or 400 mg given once daily or in two divided doses. 2.5 Dosage for Chronic Discoid Lupus Erythematosus in Adults The recommended dosage is 200 mg given once daily, or 400 mg given once daily or in two divided doses. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Malaria in Adult and Pediatric Patients ( 2.2 ): • Prophylaxis: Begin weekly doses 2 weeks prior to travel to the endemic area, continue weekly doses while in the endemic area, and continue the weekly doses for 4 weeks after leaving the endemic area: - Adults: 400 mg once a week - Pediatric patients ≥ 31 kg: 6.5 mg/kg up to 400 mg, once a week • Treatment of Uncomplicated Malaria: See Full Prescribing Information (FPI) for complete dosing information. Rheumatoid Arthritis in Adults ( 2.3 ): • Initial dosage: 400 mg to 600 mg daily • Chronic dosage: 200 mg once daily or 400 mg once daily (or in two divided doses) Systemic Lupus Erythematosus in Adults ( 2.4 ): • 200 mg once daily or 400 mg once daily (or in two divided doses) Chronic Discoid Lupus Erythematosus in Adults ( 2.5 ): • 200 mg once daily or 400 mg once daily (or in two divided doses) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Administer hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets orally with food or milk. The recommended prophylaxis dosage is: • Adult patients: 400 mg once a week • Pediatric patients ≥ 31kg: 6.5 mg/kg actual body weight (up to 400 mg) once a week Treatment of Uncomplicated Malaria The dosages for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria are: • Adult patients: Administer 800 mg initially; subsequently administer 400 mg at 6 hours, 24 hours, and 48 hours after the initial dose (total dosage = 2,000 mg). • Pediatric patients ≥ 31 kg: Administer 13 mg/kg (up to 800 mg) initially; subsequently administer 6.5 mg/kg (up to 400 mg) at 6 hours, 24 hours, and 48 hours after the initial dose (total dosage = 31 mg/kg - up to 2,000 mg). ovale infections, concomitant therapy with an 8­-aminoquinoline drug is necessary [see Microbiology (12.4) ]. 2.3 Dosage for Rheumatoid Arthritis in Adults The recommended dosage is: • Initial dosage: 400 mg to 600 mg daily as a single daily dose or two divided doses. • Chronic dosage: 200 mg once daily to 400 mg daily, as a single dose or two divided doses. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Malaria in Adult and Pediatric Patients ( 2.2 ) : Prophylaxis: Begin weekly doses 2 weeks prior to travel to the endemic area, continue weekly doses while in the endemic area, and continue the weekly doses for 4 weeks after leaving the endemic area: -Adults: 400 mg once a week -Pediatric patients ≥ 31 kg: 6.5 mg/kg up to 400 mg, once a week Treatment of Uncomplicated Malaria: See Full Prescribing Information (FPI) for complete dosing information. Rheumatoid Arthritis in Adults ( 2.3 ) : Initial dosage: 400 mg to 600 mg daily Chronic dosage: 200 mg once daily or 400 mg once daily (or in two divided doses) Systemic Lupus Erythematosus in Adults ( 2.4 ): 200 mg once daily or 400 mg once daily (or in two divided doses) Chronic Discoid Lupus Erythematosus in Adults ( 2.5 ): 200 mg once daily or 400 mg once daily (or in two divided doses) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Administer hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets orally with food or milk. ovale infections, concomitant therapy with an 8-aminoquinoline drug is necessary [see Microbiology (12.4) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Malaria in Adult and Pediatric Patients ( 2.2 ): Prophylaxis: Begin weekly doses 2 weeks prior to travel to the endemic area, continue weekly doses while in the endemic area, and continue the weekly doses for 4 weeks after leaving the endemic area: - Adults: 400 mg once a week - Pediatric patients ≥ 31 kg: 6.5 mg/kg up to 400 mg, once a week Treatment of Uncomplicated Malaria: See Full Prescribing Information (FPI) for complete dosing information. Rheumatoid Arthritis in Adults ( 2.3 ): Initial dosage: 400 mg to 600 mg daily Chronic dosage: 200 mg once daily or 400 mg once daily (or in two divided doses) Systemic Lupus Erythematosus in Adults ( 2.4 ): 200 mg once daily or 400 mg once daily (or in two divided doses) Chronic Discoid Lupus Erythematosus in Adults ( 2.5 ): 200 mg once daily or 400 mg once daily (or in two divided doses) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Administer hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablet orally with food or milk. 2.2 Dosage for Malaria in Adult and Pediatric Patients Hydroxychloroquine sulfate is not recommended in pediatric patients less than 31 kg because the lowest available strength (200 mg) exceeds the recommended dose for these patients and it cannot be divided. The recommended prophylaxis dosage is: Adult patients: 400 mg once a week Pediatric patients ≥ 31kg: 6.5 mg/kg actual body weight (up to 400 mg) once a week Treatment of Uncomplicated Malaria The dosages for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria are: Adult patients: Administer 800 mg initially; subsequently administer 400 mg at 6 hours, 24 hours, and 48 hours after the initial dose (total dosage = 2,000 mg). Pediatric patients ≥ 31 kg: Administer 13 mg/kg (up to 800 mg) initially; subsequently administer 6.5 mg/kg (up to 400 mg) at 6 hours, 24 hours, and 48 hours after the initial dose (total dosage = 31 mg/kg - up to 2,000 mg). ovale infections, concomitant therapy with an 8 -aminoquinoline drug is necessary [see Microbiology ( 12.4 )]. Daily doses exceeding 5 mg/kg (actual weight) of hydroxychloroquine sulfate increase the incidence of retinopathy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Corticosteroids, salicylates, and other antirheumatic agents may be used concomitantly with hydroxychloroquine sulfate. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Malaria in Adult and Pediatric Patients (2.2): Prophylaxis: Begin weekly doses 2 weeks prior to travel to the endemic area, continue weekly doses while in the endemic area, and continue the weekly doses for 4 weeks after leaving the endemic area: Adults: 400 mg once a week Pediatric patients ≥ 31 kg: 6.5 mg/kg up to 400 mg, once a week Treatment of Uncomplicated Malaria: See Full Prescribing Information (FPI) for complete dosing information. Rheumatoid Arthritis in Adults (2.3): Initial dosage: 400 mg to 600 mg daily Chronic dosage: 200 mg once daily or 400 mg once daily (or in two divided doses) Systemic Lupus Erythematosus in Adults (2.4): 200 mg once daily or 400 mg once daily (or in two divided doses) Chronic Discoid Lupus Erythematosus in Adults (2.5): 200 mg once daily or 400 mg once daily (or in two divided doses) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Administer hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets orally with food or milk. ovale infections, concomitant therapy with an 8­-aminoquinoline drug is necessary [ see Microbiology (12.4)] . Daily doses exceeding 5 mg/kg (actual weight) of hydroxychloroquine sulfate increase the incidence of retinopathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . ovale infections, concomitant therapy with an 8- aminoquinoline drug is necessary [see Microbiology (12.4) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Malaria in Adult and Pediatric Patients ( 2.2 ) : Prophylaxis: Begin weekly doses 2 weeks prior to travel to the endemic area, continue weekly doses while in the endemic area, and continue the weekly doses for 4 weeks after leaving the endemic area: - Adults: 400 mg once a week - Pediatric patients ≥ 31 kg: 6.5 mg/kg up to 400 mg, once a week Treatment of Uncomplicated Malaria: See Full Prescribing Information (FPI) for complete dosing information. Rheumatoid Arthritis in Adults ( 2.3 ) : Initial dosage: 400 mg to 600 mg daily Chronic dosage: 200 mg once daily or 400 mg once daily (or in two divided doses) Systemic Lupus Erythematosus in Adults ( 2.4 ): 200 mg once daily or 400 mg once daily (or in two divided doses) Chronic Discoid Lupus Erythematosus in Adults ( 2.5 ): 200 mg once daily or 400 mg once daily (or in two divided doses) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Administer PLAQUENIL orally with food or milk. 2.2 Dosage for Malaria in Adult and Pediatric Patients PLAQUENIL is not recommended in pediatric patients less than 31 kg because the lowest available strength (200 mg) exceeds the recommended dose for these patients and it cannot be divided. The recommended prophylaxis dosage is: • Adult patients: 400 mg once a week • Pediatric patients ≥ 31kg: 6.5 mg/kg actual body weight (up to 400 mg) once a week Treatment of Uncomplicated Malaria The dosages for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria are: • Adult patients: Administer 800 mg initially; subsequently administer 400 mg at 6 hours, 24 hours, and 48 hours after the initial dose (total dosage = 2000 mg). • Pediatric patients ≥ 31 kg: Administer 13 mg/kg (up to 800 mg) initially; subsequently administer 6.5 mg/kg (up to 400 mg) at 6 hours, 24 hours, and 48 hours after the initial dose (total dosage = 31 mg/kg - up to 2000 mg). Corticosteroids, salicylates, and other antirheumatic agents may be used concomitantly with PLAQUENIL.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to 4-aminoquinoline compounds. Patients with hypersensitivity to 4-aminoquinoline compounds ( 4 ) • Patients with hypersensitivity to 4-aminoquinoline compounds ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydroxychloroquine sulfate is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to 4-aminoquinoline compounds. Patients with hypersensitivity to 4-aminoquinoline compounds (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS PLAQUENIL is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to 4-aminoquinoline compounds.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs Prolonging QT Interval and Other Arrhythmogenic Drugs. ( 7.1 ) See FPI for more important drug interactions. ( 7 ) 7.1 Drugs Prolonging QT Interval and Other Arrhythmogenic Drugs Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets prolongs the QT interval. There may be an increased risk of inducing ventricular arrhythmias if hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets are used concomitantly with other arrhythmogenic drugs. Therefore, hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets are not recommended in patients taking other drugs that have the potential to prolong the QT interval or are arrhythmogenic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7.2 Insulin or Other Antidiabetic Drugs Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets may enhance the effects of insulin and antidiabetic drugs, and consequently increase the hypoglycemic risk. Therefore, a decrease in dosage of insulin and other antidiabetic drugs may be necessary [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. 7.3 Drugs that Lower the Seizure Threshold Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets can lower the seizure threshold. Co-administration of hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets with other antimalarials known to lower the seizure threshold (e.g., mefloquine) may increase the risk of seizures. 7.4 Antiepileptics The activity of antiepileptic drugs might be impaired if co-administered with hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets. 7.5 Methotrexate Concomitant use of hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets and methotrexate may increase the incidence of adverse reactions. 7.6 Cyclosporine An increased plasma cyclosporine level was reported when cyclosporine and hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets were co-administered. Monitor serum cyclosporine levels closely in patients receiving combined therapy. 7.7 Digoxin Concomitant hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets and digoxin therapy may result in increased serum digoxin levels. Monitor serum digoxin levels closely in patients receiving combined therapy. 7.8 Cimetidine Concomitant use of cimetidine resulted in a 2-fold increase of exposure of chloroquine, which is structurally related to hydroxychloroquine. Interaction of cimetidine with hydroxychloroquine cannot be ruled out. Avoid concomitant use of cimetidine. 7.9 Rifampicin Lack of efficacy of hydroxychloroquine was reported when rifampicin was concomitantly administered. Avoid concomitant use of rifampicin. 7.10 Praziquantel Chloroquine has been reported to reduce the bioavailability of praziquantel. Interaction of praziquantel with hydroxychloroquine cannot be ruled out. 7.11 Antacids and kaolin Antacids and kaolin can reduce absorption of chloroquine; an interval of at least 4 hours between intake of these agents and chloroquine should be observed. Interaction of antacids and kaolin with hydroxychloroquine cannot be ruled out. 7.12 Ampicillin In a study of healthy volunteers, chloroquine significantly reduced the bioavailability of ampicillin. Interaction of ampicillin with hydroxychloroquine cannot be ruled out. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Drugs Prolonging QT Interval and Other Arrhythmogenic Drugs. ( 7.1 ) • See FPI for more important drug interactions. ( 7 ) 7.1 Drugs Prolonging QT Interval and Other Arrhythmogenic Drugs Hydroxychloroquine prolongs the QT interval. There may be an increased risk of inducing ventricular arrhythmias if hydroxychloroquine is used concomitantly with other arrhythmogenic drugs. Therefore, hydroxychloroquine is not recommended in patients taking other drugs that have the potential to prolong the QT interval or are arrhythmogenic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7.2 Insulin or Other Antidiabetic Drugs Hydroxychloroquine may enhance the effects of insulin and antidiabetic drugs, and consequently increase the hypoglycemic risk. 7.3 Drugs that Lower the Seizure Threshold Hydroxychloroquine can lower the seizure threshold. Co-administration of hydroxychloroquine with other antimalarials known to lower the seizure threshold (e.g., mefloquine) may increase the risk of seizures. 7.4 Antiepileptics The activity of antiepileptic drugs might be impaired if co-administered with hydroxychloroquine. 7.5 Methotrexate Concomitant use of hydroxychloroquine and methotrexate may increase the incidence of adverse reactions. 7.6 Cyclosporine An increased plasma cyclosporin level was reported when cyclosporin and hydroxychloroquine were co-administered. 7.7 Digoxin Concomitant hydroxychloroquine and digoxin therapy may result in increased serum digoxin levels. ( 7.1 ) • See FPI for more important drug interactions.( 7 ) 7.1 Drugs Prolonging QT Interval and Other Arrhythmogenic Drugs Hydroxychloroquine prolongs the QT interval. Therefore, hydroxychloroquine is not recommended in patients taking other drugs that have the potential to prolong the QT interval or are arrhythmogenic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Therefore, a decrease in dosage of insulin and other antidiabetic drugs may be necessary [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. ( 7 ) 7.1 Drugs Prolonging QT Interval and Other Arrhythmogenic Drugs Hydroxychloroquine sulfate prolongs the QT interval. There may be an increased risk of inducing ventricular arrhythmias if hydroxychloroquine sulfate is used concomitantly with other arrhythmogenic drugs. Therefore, hydroxychloroquine sulfate is not recommended in patients taking other drugs that have the potential to prolong the QT interval or are arrhythmogenic [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. 7.2 Insulin or Other Antidiabetic Drugs Hydroxychloroquine sulfate may enhance the effects of insulin and antidiabetic drugs, and consequently increase the hypoglycemic risk. Therefore, a decrease in dosage of insulin and other antidiabetic drugs may be necessary [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10) ] . 7.3 Drugs that Lower the Seizure Threshold Hydroxychloroquine sulfate can lower the seizure threshold. Co-administration of hydroxychloroquine sulfate with other antimalarials known to lower the seizure threshold (e.g., mefloquine) may increase the risk of seizures. 7.4 Antiepileptics The activity of antiepileptic drugs might be impaired if co-administered with hydroxychloroquine sulfate. 7.5 Methotrexate Concomitant use of hydroxychloroquine sulfate and methotrexate may increase the incidence of adverse reactions. 7.6 Cyclosporine An increased plasma cyclosporin level was reported when cyclosporin and hydroxychloroquine sulfate were co-administered. 7.7 Digoxin Concomitant hydroxychloroquine sulfate and digoxin therapy may result in increased serum digoxin levels. (7.1) See FPI for more important drug interactions. (7) 7.1 Drugs Prolonging QT Interval and Other Arrhythmogenic Drugs Hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets prolongs the QT interval. There may be an increased risk of inducing ventricular arrhythmias if hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets is used concomitantly with other arrhythmogenic drugs. Therefore, hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets are not recommended in patients taking other drugs that have the potential to prolong the QT interval or are arrhythmogenic [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1]. Therefore, a decrease in dosage of insulin and other antidiabetic drugs may be necessary [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. 7.6 Cyclosporine An increased plasma cyclosporin level was reported when cyclosporin and hydroxychloroquine sulfate tablets were co-administered. Therefore, hydroxychloroquine sulfate is not recommended in patients taking other drugs that have the potential to prolong the QT interval or are arrhythmogenic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Therefore, a decrease in dosage of insulin and other antidiabetic drugs may be necessary [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] . ( 7.1 ) • See FPI for more important drug interactions.( 7 ) 7.1 Drugs Prolonging QT Interval and Other Arrhythmogenic Drugs PLAQUENIL prolongs the QT interval. There may be an increased risk of inducing ventricular arrhythmias if PLAQUENIL is used concomitantly with other arrhythmogenic drugs. Therefore, PLAQUENIL is not recommended in patients taking other drugs that have the potential to prolong the QT interval or are arrhythmogenic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. 7.2 Insulin or Other Antidiabetic Drugs PLAQUENIL may enhance the effects of insulin and antidiabetic drugs, and consequently increase the hypoglycemic risk. 7.3 Drugs that Lower the Seizure Threshold PLAQUENIL can lower the seizure threshold. Co-administration of PLAQUENIL with other antimalarials known to lower the seizure threshold (e.g., mefloquine) may increase the risk of seizures. 7.4 Antiepileptics The activity of antiepileptic drugs might be impaired if co-administered with PLAQUENIL. 7.5 Methotrexate Concomitant use of PLAQUENIL and methotrexate may increase the incidence of adverse reactions. 7.6 Cyclosporine An increased plasma cyclosporin level was reported when cyclosporin and PLAQUENIL were co-administered. 7.7 Digoxin Concomitant PLAQUENIL and digoxin therapy may result in increased serum digoxin levels. Avoid concomitant use of cimetidine 7.9 Rifampicin Lack of efficacy of hydroxychloroquine was reported when rifampicin was concomitantly administered.

=== HYOSCYAMINE SULFATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hyoscyamine sulfate extended-release tablets are effective as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of peptic ulcer. They can also be used to control gastric secretion, visceral spasm and hypermotility in spastic colitis, spastic bladder, cystitis, pylorospasm, and associated abdominal cramps. May be used in functional intestinal disorders to reduce symptoms such as those seen in mild dysenteries, diverticulitis, and acute enterocolitis. For use as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome (irritable colon, spastic colon, mucous colitis) and functional gastrointestinal disorders. Also used as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of neurogenic bladder andmneurogenic bowel disturbances (including the splenic flexure syndrome and neurogenic colon). Hyoscyamine sulfate extended-release tablets are indicated along with morphine or other narcotics in symptomatic relief of biliary and renal colic; as a “drying agent” in the relief of symptoms of acute rhinitis; in the therapy of parkinsonism to reduce rigidity and tremors and to control associated sialorrhea and hyperhidrosis. May be used in the therapy of poisoning by anticholinesterase agents. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hyoscyamine sulfate is effective as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of peptic ulcer. It can also be used to control gastric secretion, visceral spasm and hypermotility in spastic colitis, spastic bladder, cystitis, pylorospasm, and associated abdominal cramps. Also used as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of neurogenic bladder and neurogenic bowel disturbances (including the splenic flexure syndrome and neurogenic colon). Also used in the treatment of infant colic (elixir and drops). Hyoscyamine sulfate is indicated along with morphine or other narcotics in symptomatic relief of biliary and renal colic; as a “drying agent” in the relief of symptoms of acute rhinitis; in the therapy of parkinsonism to reduce rigidity and tremors and to control associated sialorrhea and hyperhidrosis. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Uribel Tabs are indicated for the treatment of symptoms of irritative voiding. Indicated for the relief of local symptoms, such as inflammation, hypermotility, and pain, which accompany lower urinary tract infections. Indicated for the relief of urinary tract symptoms caused by diagnostic procedures. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Based on a review of this drug by the National Academy of Sciences-National Research Council and/or other information, FDA has classified the indications as follows: "Possibly" effective: For use as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome (irritable colon, spastic colon, mucous colitis) and acute enterocolitis. May also be useful as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of duodenal ulcer. Final classification of the less-than-effective indications requires further investigation. IT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN CONCLUSIVELY WHETHER ANTICHOLINERGIC/ANTISPASMODIC DRUGS AID IN THE HEALING OF A DUODENAL ULCER, DECREASE THE RATE OF RECURRENCES OR PREVENT COMPLICATIONS. INDICATIONS and USAGE: Urelle ® is indicated for the treatment of symptoms of irritative voiding. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Uro-MP Capsules are indicated for the treatment of symptoms of irritative voiding. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hyoscyamine Sulfate Tablets, USP are effective as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of peptic ulcer. They can also be used to control gastric secretions, visceral spasm and hypermotility in spastic colitis, spastic bladder, cystitis, pylorospasm and associated abdominal cramps. May be used in functional intestinal disorders to reduce symptoms such as those seen in mild dysenteries, diverticulitis and acute enterocolitis. Hyoscyamine Sulfate Tablets, USP are indicated along with morphine or other narcotics in symptomatic relief of biliary and renal colic; as a "drying agent" in the relief of symptoms of acute rhinitis; in the therapy of parkinsonism to reduce rigidity and tremors and to control associated sialorrhea and hyperhidrosis. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hyoscyamine Sulfate Tablets USP are effective as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of peptic ulcer. Hyoscyamine Sulfate Tablets USP are indicated along with morphine or other narcotics in symptomatic relief of biliary and renal colic; as a “drying agent” in the relief of symptoms of acute rhinitis; in the therapy of parkinsonism to reduce rigidity and tremors and to control associated sialorrhea and hyperhidrosis. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Based on a review of this drug by the National Academy of Sciences–National Research Council and/or other information, FDA has classified the indications as follows: “Possibly” effective: For use as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome (irritable colon, spastic colon, mucous colitis) and acute enterocolitis.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage may be adjusted according to the conditions and severity of symptoms. Adults And Pediatric Patients 12 Years Of Age And Older 1 to 2 tablets every 12 hours. Do not crush or chew tablets. Do not exceed 4 tablets in 24 hours. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION HYOSYNE ORAL DROPS (Hyoscyamine Sulfate Oral Solution) Dosage may be adjusted according to the conditions and severity of symptoms. Measuredosage very carefully. Adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older : 1 to 2 mL every four hours or as needed. Do not exceed 12 mL in 24 hours. Pediatric patients 2 to under 12 years of age : 1/4 to 1 mL every four hours or as needed. Do not exceed 6 mL in 24 hours. Pediatric patients under 2 years of age : The following dosage guide is based upon body weight. The doses may be repeated every four hours or as needed. Body Weight Usual Dose Do Not Exceed In 24 Hours 3.4 kg (7.5 lb.) 4 drops 24 drops 5 kg (11 lb.) 5 drops 30 drops 7 kg (15 lb.) 6 drops 36 drops 10 kg (22 lb.) 8 drops 48 drops Package of Hyoscyamine Sulfate Oral Drops is accompanied with a dropper having markings of 3, 4, 5 DROPS, and 0.25 mL. The approximate equivalent amount of hyoscyamine sulfate drops (mL) and its equivalent amount of hyoscyamine sulfate (mg) for each marking are as follows: Approximate Equivalent Amount Marking on Dropper Hyoscyamine Sulfate Oral Drops Solution (mL) Hyoscyamine Sulfate (mg) 3 DROPS 0.08 mL 0.01 mg 4 DROPS 0.11 mL 0.01375 mg 5 DROPS 0.14 mL 0.0175 mg 0.25 mL 0.25 mL 0.03125 mg HYOSYNE ELIXIR (Hyoscyamine Sulfate Elixir) Dosage may be adjusted according to the conditions and severity of symptoms. Measure dosage very carefully. Adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older : 1 to 2 teaspoonfuls every four hours or as needed. Do not exceed 12 teaspoonfuls in 24 hours. Pediatric patients 2 to under 12 years of age : Please see the following dosage guide is based on body weight. Do not exceed 6teaspoonfuls in 24 hours. Body Weigh t Usual Dose 10 kg (22 lb.) 1/4 teaspoon (1.25 mL) 20 kg (44 lb.) 1/2 teaspoonful (2.5 mL) 40 kg (88 lb.) 3/4 teaspoonful (3.75 mL) 50 kg (110 lb.) 1 teaspoonful (5 mL) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults One tablet orally 4 times per day followed by liberal fluid intake. Older Children Dosage must be individualized by physician. Not recommended for use in children six years of age or younger. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate and Scopolamine Hydrobromide Tablets should be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient to assure symptomatic control with a minimum of adverse effects. Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate and Scopolamine Hydrobromide Tablets - Adults: One or two Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate and Scopolamine Hydrobromide Tablets three or four times a day according to condition and severity of symptoms. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of Donnatal® Elixir should be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient to assure symptomatic control with a minimum of adverse effects. Donnatal® Elixir. Adults: One or two teaspoonfuls of elixir three or four times a day according to conditions and severity of symptoms. Pediatric patients: may be dosed every 4 to 6 hours. Use a pediatric dosing device or oral syringe to measure the dose. Starting Dosage Body weight Every 4 hours Every 6 hours 10 lb. (4.5 kg) 0.5 mL 0.75 mL 20 lb. (9.1 kg) 1 mL 1.5 mL 30 lb. (13.6 kg) 1.5 mL 2 mL 50 lb. (22.7 kg) 2.5 mL 3.75 mL 75 lb. (34 kg) 3.75 mL 5 mL 100 lb. (45.4 kg) 5 mL 7.5 mL DOSAGE and ADMINISTRATION: Adults – One tablet orally 4 times per day followed by liberal fluid intake. Pediatric – Dosage must be individualized by a physician for older children. Urelle® is not recommended for use in children 6 years of age or younger. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults: One tablet orally 4 times per day followed by liberal fluid intake. Pediatric: Dosage must be individualized by physician for older children. Adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older: 1 to 2 tablets every four hours or as needed. Do not exceed 12 tablets in 24 hours. Pediatric patients 2 to under 12 years of age: ½ to 1 tablet every four hours or as needed. Do not exceed 6 tablets in 24 hours. Pediatric patients 2 to under 12 years of age: 1/2 to 1 tablet every four hours or as needed. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of Phenohytro™ should be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient to assure symptomatic control with a minimum of adverse effects. Phenohytro™ Tablets - Adults: One or two Phenohytro™ Tablets three or four times a day according to condition and severity of symptoms.
Warnings: WARNINGS In the presence of high environmental temperature, heat prostration can occur with drug use (fever and heat stroke due to decreased sweating). Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction, especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy. In this instance, treatment with this drug would be inappropriate and possibly harmful. Like other anticholinergic agents, hyoscyamine sulfate may produce drowsiness, dizziness, or blurred vision. In this event, the patient should be warned not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery or to perform hazardous work while taking this drug. Psychosis has been reported in sensitive individuals given anticholinergic drugs including hyoscyamine sulfate. CNS signs and symptoms include confusion, disorientation, short-term memory loss, hallucinations, dysarthria, ataxia, euphoria, anxiety, fatigue, insomnia, agitation and mannerisms, and inappropriate affect. These CNS signs and symptoms usually resolve within 12 to 48 hours after discontinuation of the drug. Like other anticholinergic agents, Hyoscyamine sulfate may produce drowsiness, dizziness or blurred vision. Psychosis has been reported in sensitive individuals given anticholinergic drugs. CNS signs and symptoms include confusion, disorientation, short term memory loss, hallucinations, dysarthria, ataxia, coma, euphoria, decreased anxiety, fatigue, insomnia, agitation and mannerisms, and inappropriate affect. WARNINGS Do not exceed recommended dosage. If rapid pulse, dizziness or blurring of vision occurs, discontinue use immediately. WARNINGS Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate and Scopolamine Hydrobromide Tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate and Scopolamine Hydrobromide Tablets. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. In the presence of a high environmental temperature, heat prostration can occur with belladonna alkaloids (fever and heatstroke due to decreased sweating). Phenobarbital, Hyoscyamine Sulfate, Atropine Sulfate and Scopolamine Hydrobromide Tablets may produce drowsiness or blurred vision. The patient should be warned, should these occur, not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness, such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery, and not to perform hazardous work. Phenobarbital may decrease the effect of anticoagulants, and necessitate larger doses of the anticoagulant for optimal effect. When the phenobarbital is discontinued, the dose of the anticoagulant may have to be decreased. Phenobarbital may be habit forming and should not be administered to individuals known to be addiction prone or to those with a history of physical and/or psychological dependence upon drugs. Since barbiturates are metabolized in the liver, they should be used with caution and initial doses should be small in patients with hepatic dysfunction. WARNINGS Donnatal® Elixir can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Donnatal® Elixir. Donnatal® Elixir may produce drowsiness or blurred vision. WARNINGS: If rapid pulse, dizziness, or blurring of vision occurs, discontinue use immediately. Patients should be advised that urine will be colored blue when taking this medication. Do not exceed recommended dosage. If rapid pulse, dizziness, or blurring of vision occurs, discontinue use immediately. KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN. IN CASE OF ACCIDENTAL OVERDOSE, SEEK PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANCE OR CONTACT A POISON CONTROL CENTER IMMEDIATELY. WARNING: Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children. Rx Only Manufactured for: Method Pharmaceuticals, LLC Southlake, TX 76092 www.methodpharm.com Rev. 02/23 CNS signs and symptoms include confusion, disorientation, short-term memory loss, hallucinations, dysarthria, ataxia, coma, euphoria, anxiety, decreased anxiety, fatigue, insomnia, agitation and mannerisms and inappropriate affect. WARNINGS Phenohytro™ Tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Phenohytro™. In the presence of a high environmental temperature, heat prostration (fever and heatstroke due to decreased sweating) can occur with belladonna alkaloids. Administration of Phenohytro™ Tablets to a patient exhibiting diarrhea would be inappropriate and possibly harmful. Phenohytro™ Tablets may produce drowsiness or blurred vision. Should these occur, the patient should be warned not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness, such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery, and not to perform hazardous work.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Glaucoma; obstructive uropathy (for example, bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy); obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract (as in achalasia, pyloroduodenal stenosis); paralytic ileus, intestinal atony of elderly or debilitated patients; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage; severe ulcerative colitis; toxic megacolon complicating ulcerative colitis; myasthenia gravis. CONTRADICTIONS Hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients is possible. Risk benefits should be carefully considered when the following medical problems exist: cardiac disease (especially cardiac arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, coronary heart disease, and mitral stenosis); gastrointestinal tract obstructive disease; glaucoma; myasthenia gravis, acute urinary retention may be precipitated in obstructive uropathy (such as bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy). CONTRAINDICATIONS glaucoma; obstructive uropathy (for example, bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy); obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract (as in achalasia, pyloroduodenal stenosis, etc.); paralytic ileus, intestinal atony of the elderly or debilitated patient; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage; severe ulcerative colitis especially if complicated by toxic megacolon; myasthenia gravis; hiatal hernia associated with reflux esophagitis; in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients. Phenobarbital is contraindicated in acute intermittent porphyria and in those patients in whom phenobarbital produces restlessness and/or excitement. CONTRAINDICATIONS: Hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients is possible. Risk - benefit should be carefully considered when the following medical problems exist: cardiac disease (especially cardiac arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, coronary heart disease, mitral stenosis); gastrointestinal tract obstructive disease; glaucoma; myasthenia gravis; acute urinary retention may be precipitated in obstructive uropathy (such as bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy). CONTRAINDICATIONS Uro-MP Capsules are contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients. Risk-benefit should be considered when the following medical problems exist: Cardiac disease (especially cardiac arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, coronary heart disease, and mitral stenosis); gastrointestinal tract obstructive disease; glaucoma; myasthenia gravis; acute urinary retention may be precipitated in obstructive uropathy (such as bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy). CONTRAINDICATIONS Phenohytro™ Tablets are contraindicated in patients with glaucoma; obstructive uropathy (for example, bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy); obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract (as in achalasia, pyloroduodenal stenosis, etc.); paralytic ileus, intestinal atony of the elderly or debilitated patient; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage; severe ulcerative colitis especially if complicated by toxic megacolon; myasthenia gravis; hiatal hernia associated with reflux esophagitis. Phenohytro™ Tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Additive adverse effects resulting from cholinergic blockade may occur when hyoscyamine sulfate is administered concomitantly with other antimuscarinics, amantadine, haloperidol, phenothiazines, monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors, tricyclic antidepressants or some antihistamines. Antacids may interfere with the absorption of hyoscyamine sulfate. Drug Interactions Phenobarbital may decrease the effect of anticoagulants, and necessitate larger doses of the anticoagulant for optimal effect. When the phenobarbital is discontinued, the dose of the anticoagulant may have to be decreased. DRUG INTERACTIONS As a result of hyoscyamine's effects on gastrointestinal motility and gastric emptying, absorption of other oral medications may be decreased during concurrent use with this combination medication. Urinary alkalizers and thiazide diuretics: May cause the urine to become alkaline reducing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde. Antimuscarinics: Concurrent use may intensify antimuscarinic effects of hyoscyamine because of secondary antimuscarinic activities of these medications. Antacids/antidiarrheals: Concurrent use may reduce absorption of hyoscyamine resulting in decreased therapeutic effectiveness. Concurrent use with antacids may cause urine to become alkaline reducing the effectiveness of methenamine by inhibiting its conversion to formaldehyde. Doses of these medications should be spaced 1 hour apart from doses of hyoscyamine. Antimyasthenics: Concurrent use with hyoscyamine may further reduce intestinal motility, therefore, caution is recommended. Ketoconazole and hyoscyamine may cause increased gastrointestinal pH. Concurrent administration with hyoscyamine may result in marked reduction in the absorption of ketoconazole. Patients should be advised to take this combination at least 2 hours after ketoconazole. Monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors: Concurrent use with hyoscyamine may intensify antimuscarinic side effects. Opioid (narcotic) analgesics may result in increased risk of severe constipation. Sulfonamides: These drugs may precipitate with formaldehyde in the urine increasing the danger of crystalluria. Patients should be advised that the urine and/or stools may become blue to blue-green as a result of the excretion of methylene blue. Drug Abuse And Dependence A dependence on the use of Uro-MP Capsules has not been reported and due to the nature of its ingredients, abuse of Uro-MP Capsules is not expected. Administer hyoscyamine sulfate before meals; antacids after meals. Administer Hyoscyamine Sulfate Tablets USP before meals; antacids after meals.

=== VENLAFAXINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Venlafaxine tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder. The efficacy of venlafaxine tablets, USP in the treatment of major depressive disorder was established in 6 week controlled trials of adult outpatients whose diagnoses corresponded most closely to the DSM-III or DSM-III-R category of major depression and in a 4 week controlled trial of inpatients meeting diagnostic criteria for major depression with melancholia (see CLINICAL TRIALS ). A major depressive episode implies a prominent and relatively persistent depressed or dysphoric mood that usually interferes with daily functioning (nearly every day for at least 2 weeks); it should include at least 4 of the following 8 symptoms: change in appetite, change in sleep, psychomotor agitation or retardation, loss of interest in usual activities or decrease in sexual drive, increased fatigue, feelings of guilt or worthlessness, slowed thinking or impaired concentration, and a suicide attempt or suicidal ideation. The efficacy of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules in maintaining an antidepressant response for up to 26 weeks following 8 weeks of acute treatment was demonstrated in a placebo-controlled trial. The efficacy of venlafaxine tablets in maintaining an antidepressant response in patients with recurrent depression who had responded and continued to be improved during an initial 26 weeks of treatment and were then followed for a period of up to 52 weeks was demonstrated in a second placebo-controlled trial (see CLINICAL TRIALS ). Nevertheless, the physician who elects to use venlafaxine tablets/venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are indicated in adults for the treatment of: Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] Panic Disorder (PD) [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for the treatment of adults with: Major Depressive Disorder ( MDD ) ( 1 ) Generalized Anxiety Disorder ( GAD ) ( 1 ) Social Anxiety Disorder ( SAD ) ( 1 ) Panic Disorder ( PD ) ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Venlafaxine extended-release tablets are a selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for: Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) ( 1.1 ) Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Major Depressive Disorder Venlafaxine extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD). Efficacy of venlafaxine in MDD was shown in both short-term trials and a longer-term trial in MDD [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. A major depressive episode (DSM-IV) implies a prominent and relatively persistent (nearly every day for at least 2 weeks) depressed mood or the loss of interest or pleasure in nearly all activities, representing a change from previous functioning, and includes the presence of at least five of the following nine symptoms during the same two-week period: depressed mood, markedly diminished interest or pleasure in usual activities, significant change in weight and/or appetite, insomnia or hypersomnia, psychomotor agitation or retardation, increased fatigue, feelings of guilt or worthlessness, slowed thinking or impaired concentration, a suicide attempt or suicidal ideation. 1.2 Social Anxiety Disorder Venlafaxine extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD), also known as Social Phobia, as defined in DSM-IV. Social Anxiety Disorder (DSM-IV) is characterized by a marked and persistent fear of 1 or more social or performance situations in which the person is exposed to unfamiliar people or to possible scrutiny by others. Exposure to the feared situation almost invariably provokes anxiety, which may approach the intensity of a panic attack. The feared situations are avoided or endured with intense anxiety or distress. The avoidance, anxious anticipation, or distress in the feared situation(s) interferes significantly with the person's normal routine, occupational or academic functioning, or social activities or relationships, or there is a marked distress about having the phobias. Lesser degrees of performance anxiety or shyness generally do not require psychopharmacological treatment. Efficacy of venlafaxine extended-release tablets in the treatment of SAD was established in short-term SAD trials [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules, USP are indicated in adults for the treatment of: Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] Panic Disorder (PD) [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for the treatment of adults with: Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) ( 1 ) Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) ( 1 ) Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) ( 1 ) Panic Disorder (PD) ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are indicated in adults for the treatment of: Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1) ] Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3) ] Panic Disorder (PD) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )] Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for the treatment of adults with: Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) ( 1 ) Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) ( 1 ) Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) ( 1 ) Panic Disorder (PD) ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are indicated in adults for the treatment of: • Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) [see ] • Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) [see ] • Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) [see ] • Panic Disorder (PD) [see ] Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for the treatment of adults with: • Major Depressive Disorder ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. ) ( 1 ) • Generalized Anxiety Disorder () ( 1 ) • Social Anxiety Disorder ( Error! ) ( 1 ) • Panic Disorder ( Error! ) ( 1 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Venlafaxine tablets are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder. The efficacy of venlafaxine tablets in the treatment of major depressive disorder was established in 6-week controlled trials of adult outpatients whose diagnoses corresponded most closely to the DSM-III or DSM-III-R category of major depression and in a 4-week controlled trial of inpatients meeting diagnostic criteria for major depression with melancholia (see CLINICAL TRIALS ). The efficacy of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended release capsules in maintaining an antidepressant response for up to 26 weeks following 8 weeks of acute treatment was demonstrated in a placebo-controlled trial. Nevertheless, the physician who elects to use venlafaxine tablets/ venlafaxine hydrochloride extended release capsules for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are indicated in adults for the treatment of: • Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] • Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] • Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] • Panic Disorder (PD) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )] Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for the treatment of adults with: • Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) ( 1 ) • Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) ( 1 ) • Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) ( 1 ) • Panic Disorder (PD) ( 1 ) The efficacy of venlafaxine hydrochloride in the treatment of major depressive disorder was established in 6-week controlled trials of adult outpatients whose diagnoses corresponded most closely to the DSM-III or DSM-III-R category of major depression and in a 4-week controlled trial of inpatients meeting diagnostic criteria for major depression with melancholia (see CLINICAL TRIALS ). The efficacy of venlafaxine extended-release capsules in maintaining an antidepressant response for up to 26 weeks following 8 weeks of acute treatment was demonstrated in a placebo-controlled trial. The efficacy of venlafaxine hydrochloride in maintaining an antidepressant response in patients with recurrent depression who had responded and continued to be improved during an initial 26 weeks of treatment and were then followed for a period of up to 52 weeks was demonstrated in a second placebo-controlled trial (see CLINICAL TRIALS ). Nevertheless, the physician who elects to use venlafaxine tablets/ venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Initial Treatment The recommended starting dose for venlafaxine tablets is 75 mg/day, administered in two or three divided doses, taken with food. Depending on tolerability and the need for further clinical effect, the dose may be increased to 150 mg/day. If needed, the dose should be further increased up to 225 mg/day. When increasing the dose, increments of up to 75 mg/day should be made at intervals of no less than 4 days. In outpatient settings there was no evidence of usefulness of doses greater than 225 mg/day for moderately depressed patients, but more severely depressed inpatients responded to a mean dose of 350 mg/day. Certain patients, including more severely depressed patients, may therefore respond more to higher doses, up to a maximum of 375 mg/day, generally in three divided doses (see PRECAUTIONS , General , Use in Patients with Concomitant Illness) . Special Populations Treatment of Pregnant Women During the Third Trimester Neonates exposed to venlafaxine tablets, other SNRIs, or SSRIs, late in the third trimester have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization, respiratory support, and tube feeding (see PRECAUTIONS ). When treating pregnant women with venlafaxine tablets during the third trimester, the physician should carefully consider the potential risks and benefits of treatment. Dosage for Patients with Hepatic Impairment Given the decrease in clearance and increase in elimination half-life for both venlafaxine and ODV that is observed in patients with hepatic cirrhosis and mild and moderate hepatic impairment compared to normal subjects (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ), it is recommended that the total daily dose be reduced by 50% in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. Since there was much individual variability in clearance between subjects with cirrhosis, it may be necessary to reduce the dose even more than 50%, and individualization of dosing may be desirable in some patients. Dosage for Patients with Renal Impairment Given the decrease in clearance for venlafaxine and the increase in elimination half-life for both venlafaxine and ODV that is observed in patients with renal impairment (GFR = 10 to 70 mL/min) compared to normals (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ), it is recommended that the total daily dose be reduced by 25% in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment. It is recommended that the total daily dose be reduced by 50% in patients undergoing hemodialysis. Since there was much individual variability in clearance between patients with renal impairment, individualization of dosing may be desirable in some patients. Dosage for Elderly Patients No dose adjustment is recommended for elderly patients on the basis of age. As with any antidepressant, however, caution should be exercised in treating the elderly. When individualizing the dosage, extra care should be taken when increasing the dose. Maintenance Treatment It is generally agreed that acute episodes of major depressive disorder require several months or longer of sustained pharmacological therapy beyond response to the acute episode. In one study, in which patients responding during 8 weeks of acute treatment with venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules were assigned randomly to placebo or to the same dose of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules (75, 150, or 225 mg/day, qAM) during 26 weeks of maintenance treatment as they had received during the acute stabilization phase, longer-term efficacy was demonstrated. A second longer-term study has demonstrated the efficacy of venlafaxine tablets in maintaining an antidepressant response in patients with recurrent depression who had responded and continued to be improved during an initial 26 weeks of treatment and were then randomly assigned to placebo or venlafaxine tablets for periods of up to 52 weeks on the same dose (100 to 200 mg/day, on a b.i.d. schedule) (see CLINICAL TRIALS ). Based on these limited data, it is not known whether or not the dose of venlafaxine tablets/venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules needed for maintenance treatment is identical to the dose needed to achieve an initial response. Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment. Discontinuing Venlafaxine Tablets Symptoms associated with discontinuation of venlafaxine tablets, other SNRIs, and SSRIs, have been reported (see PRECAUTIONS ). Patients should be monitored for these symptoms when discontinuing treatment. A gradual reduction in the dose rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible. If intolerable symptoms occur following a decrease in the dose or upon discontinuation of treatment, then resuming the previously prescribed dose may be considered. Subsequently, the physician may continue decreasing the dose but at a more gradual rate. Switching a Patient To or From a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with venlafaxine tablets. Conversely, at least 7 days should be allowed after stopping venlafaxine tablets before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Use of Venlafaxine Tablets With Other MAOls, Such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start venlafaxine tablets in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). In some cases, a patient already receiving therapy with venlafaxine tablets may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, venlafaxine tablets should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. The patient should be monitored for symptoms of serotonin syndrome for 7 days or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, whichever comes first. Therapy with venlafaxine tablets may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue (see WARNINGS ). The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with venlafaxine tablets is unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use (see WARNINGS ). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Starting Dose Target Dose Maximum Dose MDD ( 2.2 ) 37.5 to 75 mg/day 75 mg/day 225 mg/day GAD ( 2.3 ) 37.5 to 75 mg/day 75 mg/day 225 mg/day SAD ( 2.4 ) 75 mg/day 75 mg/day 75 mg/day PD ( 2.5 ) 37.5 mg/day 75 mg/day 225 mg/day Take once daily with food. Capsules should be taken whole; do not divide, crush, chew, or dissolve ( 2.1 ). When discontinuing treatment, reduce the dose gradually ( 2.10 , 5.7 ). Renal impairment: reduce the total daily dose by 25% to 50% in patients with renal impairment. Reduce the total daily dose by 50% or more in patients undergoing dialysis or with severe renal impairment ( 2.9 ). Hepatic impairment: reduce the daily dose by 50% in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. In patients with severe hepatic impairment or hepatic cirrhosis, it may be necessary to reduce the dose by more than 50% ( 2.8 ). 2.1 General Administration Information Administer venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules as a single dose with food, either in the morning or in the evening at approximately the same time each day [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Swallow capsules whole with fluid. Do not divide, crush, chew, or place in water. The capsule may also be administered by carefully opening the capsule and sprinkling the entire contents on a spoonful of applesauce. This drug/food mixture should be swallowed immediately without chewing and followed with a glass of water to ensure complete swallowing of the pellets (spheroids). 2.2 Major Depressive Disorder For most patients, the recommended starting dose for venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is 75 mg per day, administered in a single dose. For some patients, it may be desirable to start at 37.5 mg per day for 4 to 7 days to allow new patients to adjust to the medication before increasing to 75 mg per day. Patients not responding to the initial 75 mg per day dose may benefit from dose increases to a maximum of 225 mg per day. Dose increases should be in increments of up to 75 mg per day, as needed, and should be made at intervals of not less than 4 days. In the clinical studies establishing efficacy, upward titration was permitted at intervals of 2 weeks or more. 2.3 Generalized Anxiety Disorder For most patients, the recommended starting dose for venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is 75 mg per day, administered in a single dose. 2.4 Social Anxiety Disorder (Social Phobia) The recommended dose is 75 mg per day, administered in a single dose. There was no evidence that higher doses confer any additional benefit. 2.5 Panic Disorder The recommended starting dose is 37.5 mg per day of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules for 7 days. Patients not responding to 75 mg per day may benefit from dose increases to a maximum of approximately 225 mg per day. Dose increases should be in increments of up to 75 mg per day, as needed, and should be made at intervals of not less than 7 days. 2.6 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Prior to initiating treatment with venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . 2.7 Switching Patients from Effexor Tablets Patients with depression who are currently being treated with Effexor may be switched to venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules at the nearest equivalent dose (mg per day), e.g., 37.5 mg venlafaxine twice a day to 75 mg venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules once daily. However, individual dosage adjustments may be necessary. 2.8 Dosage Recommendations for Patients with Hepatic Impairment Reduce the venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules total daily dose by 50% in patients with mild (Child-Pugh Class A) to moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) hepatic impairment. Reduce the total daily dose by 50% or more in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) or hepatic cirrhosis [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . 2.9 Dosage Recommendations for Patients with Renal Impairment Reduce the venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules total daily dose by 25% to 50% in patients with mild (CLcr 60 to 89 mL/min) or moderate (CLcr 30 to 59 mL/min) renal impairment. Reduce the total daily dose by 50% or more in patients undergoing hemodialysis or with severe renal impairment (CLcr < 30 mL/min). Because there was much individual variability in clearance between patients with renal impairment, individualization of dosage is recommended in some patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] . 2.10 Discontinuing Treatment with Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules A gradual reduction in the dose, rather than abrupt cessation, is recommended when discontinuing therapy with venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules. In clinical studies with venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules, tapering was achieved by reducing the daily dose by 75 mg at one-week intervals. Individualization of tapering may be necessary. In some patients, discontinuation may need to occur over a period of several months [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . 2.11 Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Antidepressant At least 14 days must elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI antidepressant and initiation of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules. In addition, at least 7 days must elapse after stopping venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , and Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Venlafaxine extended-release tablets should be administered in a single dose with food either in the morning or in the evening at approximately the same time each day. Each tablet should be swallowed whole with fluid and not divided, crushed, chewed, or placed in water. Initial Treatment ( 2.1 ) Indication Starting Dose Dose Increase Maximum Dose Major Depressive Disorder 75 mg/day (in some patients, 37.5 mg/day for 4-7 days) 75 mg/day increments at intervals of 4 days or longer 225 mg/day Social Anxiety Disorder 75 mg/day No benefit at higher doses 75 mg/day Venlafaxine extended-release tablets should be taken as a single daily dose with food in either the morning or evening at the same time each day. ( 2 ) Discontinuation: Gradual; individualized as necessary. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Initial Treatment Major Depressive Disorder For most patients, the recommended starting dose for venlafaxine extended-release tablets is 75 mg/day, administered in a single dose. In the clinical trials establishing the efficacy of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules in moderately depressed outpatients, the initial dose of venlafaxine was 75 mg/day. For some patients, it may be desirable to start at 37.5 mg/day for 4 to 7 days to allow new patients to adjust to the medication before increasing to 75 mg/day. While the relationship between dose and antidepressant response for venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules has not been adequately explored, patients not responding to the initial 75 mg/day dose may benefit from dose increases to a maximum of approximately 225 mg/day. Dose increases should be in increments of up to 75 mg/day, as needed, and should be made at intervals of not less than 4 days, since steady state plasma levels of venlafaxine and its major metabolites are achieved in most patients by day 4. In the clinical trials establishing efficacy, upward titration was permitted at intervals of 2 weeks or more; the average doses were about 140 to 180 mg/day [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. It should be noted that, while the maximum recommended dose for moderately depressed outpatients is also 225 mg/day for venlafaxine hydrochloride immediate-release tablets, more severely depressed inpatients in one study of the development program for that product responded to a mean dose of 350 mg/day (range of 150 to 375 mg/day). Whether or not higher doses of venlafaxine extended-release tablets are needed for more severely depressed patients is unknown; however, the experience with venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsule doses higher than 225 mg/day is very limited . Social Anxiety Disorder (Social Phobia) The recommended dose is 75 mg/day, administered in a single dose. There was no evidence that higher doses confer any additional benefit . 2.2 Maintenance Treatment There is no body of evidence available from controlled trials to indicate how long patients with major depressive disorder should be treated with venlafaxine extended-release tablets. It is generally agreed that acute episodes of major depressive disorder require several months or longer of sustained pharmacological therapy beyond response to the acute episode. In one study, in which patients responding during 8 weeks of acute treatment with venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules were assigned randomly to placebo or to the same dose of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules (75, 150, or 225 mg per day, qAM) during 26 weeks of maintenance treatment as they had received during the acute stabilization phase, longer-term efficacy was demonstrated. A second longer-term study has demonstrated the efficacy of venlafaxine hydrochloride immediate-release tablets in maintaining a response in patients with recurrent major depressive disorder who had responded and continued to be improved during an initial 26 weeks of treatment and were then randomly assigned to placebo or venlafaxine hydrochloride immediate-release tablets for periods of up to 52 weeks on the same dose (100 to 200 mg/day, on a b.i.d. schedule)[ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. Based on these limited data, it is not known whether or not the dose of venlafaxine extended-release tablets needed for maintenance treatment is identical to the dose needed to achieve an initial response. 2.3 Special Populations Treatment of Pregnant Women During the Third Trimester Neonates exposed to venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules, other SNRIs, or SSRIs, late in the third trimester have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization, respiratory support, and tube feeding [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 ) ]. When treating pregnant women with venlafaxine extended-release tablets during the third trimester, the physician should carefully consider the potential risks and benefits of treatment. Patients with Hepatic Impairment Given the decrease in clearance and increase in elimination half-life for both venlafaxine and ODV that is observed in patients with hepatic cirrhosis and mild and moderate hepatic impairment compared with normal subjects [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ], it is recommended that the total daily dose be reduced by 50% in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. Since there was much individual variability in clearance between patients with cirrhosis, it may be necessary to reduce the dose even more than 50%, and individualization of dosing may be desirable in some patients. Patients with Renal Impairment Given the decrease in clearance for venlafaxine and the increase in elimination half-life for both venlafaxine and ODV that is observed in patients with renal impairment (GFR = 10 to 70 mL/min) compared with normal subjects [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ], it is recommended that the total daily dose be reduced by 25% to 50%. In patients undergoing hemodialysis, it is recommended that the total daily dose be reduced by 50%. Because there was much individual variability in clearance between patients with renal impairment, individualization of dosage may be desirable in some patients. Elderly Patients No dose adjustment is recommended for elderly patients solely on the basis of age. As with any drug for the treatment of major depressive disorder or Social Anxiety Disorder, however, caution should be exercised in treating the elderly. 2.4 Discontinuing Venlafaxine Extended-Release Tablets Symptoms associated with discontinuation of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules, other SNRI's, and SSRI's have been reported [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ]. A gradual reduction in the dose, rather than abrupt cessation, is recommended whenever possible. In clinical trials with venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules, tapering was achieved by reducing the daily dose by 75 mg at 1 week intervals. 2.5 Switching Patients from Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Immediate-Release Tablets Depressed patients who are currently being treated at a therapeutic dose with venlafaxine hydrochloride immediate-release tablets may be switched to venlafaxine extended-release tablets at the nearest equivalent dose (mg/day), e.g., 37.5 mg venlafaxine two-times-a-day to 75 mg venlafaxine extended-release tablets once daily. 2.6 Switching a Patient To or From a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with venlafaxine extended-release tablets. Conversely, at least 7 days should be allowed after stopping venlafaxine extended-release tablets before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [ see Contraindications ( 4.1 ) ]. 2.7 Use of Venlafaxine Extended-Release Tablets with Other MAOIs, Such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start venlafaxine extended-release tablets in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [ see Contraindications ( 4.1 ) ]. In some cases, a patient already receiving venlafaxine extended-release tablets therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, venlafaxine extended-release tablets should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. Therapy with venlafaxine extended-release tablets may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with venlafaxine extended-release tablets is unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Starting Dose Target Dose Maximum Dose MDD ( 2.2 ) 37.5 to 75 mg/day 75 mg/day 225 mg/day GAD ( 2.3 ) 37.5 to75 mg/day 75 mg/day 225 mg/day SAD ( 2.4 ) 75 mg/day 75 mg/day 75 mg/day PD ( 2.5 ) 37.5 mg/day 75 mg/day 225 mg/day Take once daily with food. 2.6 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Prior to initiating treatment with venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] . 2.7 Switching Patients from Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Tablets Patients with depression who are currently being treated with venlafaxine hydrochloride tablets may be switched to venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules at the nearest equivalent dose (mg per day), e.g., 37.5 mg venlafaxine twice a day to 75 mg venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules once daily. Reduce the total daily dose by 50% or more in patients undergoing hemodialysis or with severe renal impairment (CLcr<30 mL/min). In addition, at least 7 days must elapse after stopping venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , and Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 2.1 General Administration Information Administer venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules as a single dose with food, either in the morning or in the evening at approximately the same time each day [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2.6 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Prior to initiating treatment with venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )]. 2.7 Switching Patients from Venlafaxine Tablets Patients with depression who are currently being treated with venlafaxine tablets (immediate release) may be switched to venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules at the nearest equivalent dose (mg per day), e.g., 37.5 mg venlafaxine twice a day to 75 mg venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules once daily. Reduce the total daily dose by 50% or more in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) or hepatic cirrhosis [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. Because there was much individual variability in clearance between patients with renal impairment, individualization of dosage is recommended in some patients [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )]. In some patients, discontinuation may need to occur over a period of several months [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )]. In addition, at least 7 days must elapse after stopping venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Starting Dose Target Dose Maximum Dose MDD () 37.5 to 75 mg/day 75 mg/day 225 mg/day GAD () 37.5 to 75 mg/day 75 mg/day 225 mg/day SAD () 75 mg/day 75 mg/day 75 mg/day PD () 37.5 mg/day 75 mg/day 225 mg/day • Take once daily with food. Capsules should be taken whole; do not divide, crush, chew, or dissolve (). • When discontinuing treatment, reduce the dose gradually (, ). • Renal impairment: reduce the total daily dose by 25% to 50% in patients with renal impairment. Reduce the total daily dose by 50% or more in patients undergoing dialysis or with severe renal impairment (). • Hepatic impairment: reduce the daily dose by 50% in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. In patients with severe hepatic impairment or hepatic cirrhosis, it may be necessary to reduce the dose by more than 50% (). 2.1 General Administration Information Administer venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules as a single dose with food, either in the morning or in the evening at approximately the same time each day [see ] . 2.6 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Prior to initiating treatment with venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see ] . Reduce the total daily dose by 50% or more in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) or hepatic cirrhosis [see ] . Because there was much individual variability in clearance between patients with renal impairment, individualization of dosage is recommended in some patients [see ] . In some patients, discontinuation may need to occur over a period of several months [see ] . In addition, at least 7 days must elapse after stopping venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications (4) , , and ] . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION* Initial Treatment The recommended starting dose for venlafaxine tablet is 75 mg/day, administered in two or three divided doses, taken with food. Certain patients, including more severely depressed patients, may therefore respond more to higher doses, up to a maximum of 375 mg/day, generally in three divided doses (see PRECAUTIONS, General, Use in Patients with Concomitant Illness ). In one study, in which patients responding during 8 weeks of acute treatment with venlafaxine hydrochloride extended release capsules were assigned randomly to placebo or to the same dose of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended release capsules (75, 150, or 225 mg/day, qAM) during 26 weeks of maintenance treatment as they had received during the acute stabilization phase, longer-term efficacy was demonstrated. Based on these limited data, it is not known whether or not the dose of venlafaxine tablets / venlafaxine hydrochloride extended release capsules needed for maintenance treatment is identical to the dose needed to achieve an initial response. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Starting Dose Target Dose Maximum Dose MDD (2.2) 37.5 to 75 mg/day 75 mg/day 225 mg/day GAD (2.3) 37.5 to 75 mg/day 75 mg/day 225 mg/day SAD (2.4) 75 mg/day 75 mg/day 75 mg/day PD (2.5) 37.5 mg/day 75 mg/day 225mg/day • Take once daily with food. • When discontinuing treatment, reduce the dose gradually ( 2.10 , 5.7 ). 2.1 General Administration Information Administer venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules as a single dose with food, either in the morning or in the evening at approximately the same time each day [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.2 Major Depressive Disorder For most patients, the recommended starting dose for venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are 75 mg per day, administered in a single dose. 2.3 Generalized Anxiety Disorder For most patients, the recommended starting dose for venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are 75 mg per day, administered in a single dose. In some patients, discontinuation may need to occur over a period of several months [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . In addition, at least 7 days must elapse after stopping venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2), and Drug Interactions (7.1)]. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Initial Treatment The recommended starting dose for venlafaxine tablets are 75 mg/day, administered in two or three divided doses, taken with food. When treating pregnant women with venlafaxine tablets during the third trimester, the physician should carefully consider the potential risks and benefits of treatment.. In one study, in which patients responding during 8 weeks of acute treatment with venlafaxine extended-release capsules were assigned randomly to placebo or to the same dose of venlafaxine extended-release capsules (75, 150, or 225 mg/day, qAM) during 26 weeks of maintenance treatment as they had received during the acute stabilization phase, longer-term efficacy was demonstrated. Based on these limited data, it is not known whether or not the dose of venlafaxine tablets/ venlafaxine extended-release capsules needed for maintenance treatment is identical to the dose needed to achieve an initial response. Discontinuing Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Symptoms associated with discontinuation of venlafaxine tablets, other SNRIs, and SSRIs, have been reported (see PRECAUTIONS ). Switching a Patient To or From a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders . At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with venlafaxine hydrochloride. Conversely, at least 7 days should be allowed after stopping venlafaxine hydrochloride before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Use of Venlafaxine Hydrochloride with Other MAOIs, Such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue : Do not start venlafaxine hydrochloride in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In some cases, a patient already receiving therapy with venlafaxine hydrochloride may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, venlafaxine hydrochloride should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. Therapy with venlafaxine hydrochloride may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue (see WARNINGS ). The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with venlafaxine hydrochloride is unclear.
Warnings: WARNINGS Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Patients with major depressive disorder (MDD), both adult and pediatric, may experience worsening of their depression and/or the emergence of suicidal ideation and behavior (suicidality) or unusual changes in behavior, whether or not they are taking antidepressant medications, and this risk may persist until significant remission occurs. Suicide is a known risk of depression and certain other psychiatric disorders, and these disorders themselves are the strongest predictors of suicide. There has been a long standing concern, however, that antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment. Pooled analyses of short-term placebo-controlled trials of antidepressant drugs (SSRIs and others) showed that these drugs increase the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents, and young adults (ages 18 to 24) with major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. Short-term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24; there was a reduction with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older. The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in children and adolescents with MDD, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 24 short-term trials of 9 antidepressant drugs in over 4400 patients. The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in adults with MDD or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 295 short-term trials (median duration of 2 months) of 11 antidepressant drugs in over 77,000 patients. There was considerable variation in risk of suicidality among drugs, but a tendency toward an increase in the younger patients for almost all drugs studied. There were differences in absolute risk of suicidality across the different indications, with the highest incidence in MDD. The risk differences (drug vs. placebo), however, were relatively stable within age strata and across indications. These risk differences (drug-placebo difference in the number of cases of suicidality per 1000 patients treated) are provided in Table 1. Table 1 Age Range Drug - Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo < 18 14 additional cases 18 to 24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25 to 64 1 fewer case ≥ 65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. There were suicides in the adult trials, but the number was not sufficient to reach any conclusion about drug effect on suicide. It is unknown whether the suicidality risk extends to longer-term use, i.e., beyond several months. However, there is substantial evidence from placebo-controlled maintenance trials in adults with depression that the use of antidepressants can delay the recurrence of depression. All patients being treated with antidepressants for any indication should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening, suicidality, and unusual changes in behavior, especially during the initial few months of a course of drug therapy, or at times of dose changes, either increases or decreases. The following symptoms, anxiety, agitation, panic attacks, insomnia, irritability, hostility, aggressiveness, impulsivity, akathisia (psychomotor restlessness), hypomania, and mania, have been reported in adult and pediatric patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder as well as for other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric. Although a causal link between the emergence of such symptoms and either the worsening of depression and/or the emergence of suicidal impulses has not been established, there is concern that such symptoms may represent precursors to emerging suicidality. Consideration should be given to changing the therapeutic regimen, including possibly discontinuing the medication, in patients whose depression is persistently worse, or who are experiencing emergent suicidality or symptoms that might be precursors to worsening depression or suicidality, especially if these symptoms are severe, abrupt in onset, or were not part of the patient's presenting symptoms. If the decision has been made to discontinue treatment, medication should be tapered, as rapidly as is feasible, but with recognition that abrupt discontinuation can be associated with certain symptoms (see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Discontinuation of Treatment with Venlafaxine Tablets , for a description of the risks of discontinuation of venlafaxine tablets). Families and caregivers of patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder or other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric, should be alerted about the need to monitor patients for the emergence of agitation, irritability, unusual changes in behavior, and the other symptoms described above, as well as the emergence of suicidality, and to report such symptoms immediately to health care providers. Such monitoring should include daily observation by families and caregivers. Prescriptions for venlafaxine tablets should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management, in order to reduce the risk of overdose. Screening Patients for Bipolar Disorder A major depressive episode may be the initial presentation of bipolar disorder. It is generally believed (though not established in controlled trials) that treating such an episode with an antidepressant alone may increase the likelihood of precipitation of a mixed/manic episode in patients at risk for bipolar disorder. Whether any of the symptoms described above represent such a conversion is unknown. However, prior to initiating treatment with an antidepressant, patients with depressive symptoms should be adequately screened to determine if they are at risk for bipolar disorder; such screening should include a detailed psychiatric history, including a family history of suicide, bipolar disorder, and depression. It should be noted that venlafaxine tablets are not approved for use in treating bipolar depression. Serotonin Syndrome The development of a potentially life-threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with SNRIs and SSRIs, including venlafaxine tablets, alone but particularly with concomitant use of other serotonergic drugs (including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone, amphetamines, and St. John's Wort) and with drugs that impair metabolism of serotonin (in particular, MAOIs, both those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). Patients should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. The concomitant use of venlafaxine tablets with MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders is contraindicated. Venlafaxine tablets should also not be started in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. All reports with methylene blue that provided information on the route of administration involved intravenous administration in the dose range of 1 mg/kg to 8 mg/kg. No reports involved the administration of methylene blue by other routes (such as oral tablets or local tissue injection) or at lower doses. There may be circumstances when it is necessary to initiate treatment with a MAOI such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue in a patient taking venlafaxine tablets. Venlafaxine tablets should be discontinued before initiating treatment with the MAOI (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). If concomitant use of venlafaxine tablets with other serotonergic drugs, including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, buspirone, tryptophan, and St. John's Wort is clinically warranted, patients should be made aware of a potential increased risk of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Treatment with venlafaxine tablets and any concomitant serotonergic agents should be discontinued immediately if the above events occur and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated. Angle-Closure Glaucoma The pupillary dilation that occurs following use of many antidepressant drugs including venlafaxine tablets may trigger an angle closure attack in a patient with anatomically narrow angles who does not have a patent iridectomy. Sustained Hypertension Venlafaxine treatment is associated with sustained increases in blood pressure in some patients. (1) In a premarketing study comparing three fixed doses of venlafaxine (75, 225, and 375 mg/day) and placebo, a mean increase in supine diastolic blood pressure (SDBP) of 7.2 mm Hg was seen in the 375 mg/day group at week 6 compared to essentially no changes in the 75 and 225 mg/day groups and a mean decrease in SDBP of 2.2 mm Hg in the placebo group. (2) An analysis for patients meeting criteria for sustained hypertension (defined as treatment-emergent SDBP ≥ 90 mm Hg and ≥ 10 mm Hg above baseline for 3 consecutive visits) revealed a dose-dependent increase in the incidence of sustained hypertension for venlafaxine: Probability of Sustained Elevation in SDBP (Pool of Premarketing Venlafaxine Studies) Treatment Group Incidence of Sustained Elevation in SDBP Venlafaxine < 100 mg/day 3% 101 to 200 mg/day 5% 201 to 300 mg/day 7% > 300 mg/day 13% Placebo 2% An analysis of the patients with sustained hypertension and the 19 venlafaxine patients who were discontinued from treatment because of hypertension (< 1% of total venlafaxine-treated group) revealed that most of the blood pressure increases were in a modest range (10 to 15 mm Hg, SDBP). Nevertheless, sustained increases of this magnitude could have adverse consequences. Cases of elevated blood pressure requiring immediate treatment have been reported in post marketing experience. Preexisting hypertension should be controlled before treatment with venlafaxine. It is recommended that patients receiving venlafaxine have regular monitoring of blood pressure. For patients who experience a sustained increase in blood pressure while receiving venlafaxine, either dose reduction or discontinuation should be considered. Sexual Dysfunction Use of SNRIs, including venlafaxine tablets, may cause symptoms of sexual dysfunction (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). In male patients, SNRI use may result in ejaculatory delay or failure, decreased libido, and erectile dysfunction. In female patients, SNRI use may result in decreased libido and delayed or absent orgasm. It is important for prescribers to inquire about sexual function prior to initiation of venlafaxine tablets and to inquire specifically about changes in sexual function during treatment, because sexual function may not be spontaneously reported. When evaluating changes in sexual function, obtaining a detailed history (including timing of symptom onset) is important because sexual symptoms may have other causes, including the underlying psychiatric disorder. Discuss potential management strategies to support patients in making informed decisions about treatment. Pooled analyses of short-term placebo-controlled trials of antidepressant drugs (SSRIs and others) showed that these drugs increase the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents, and young adults (ages 18-24) with major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. The risk differences (drug vs placebo), however, were relatively stable within age strata and across indications. These risk differences (drug-placebo difference in the number of cases of suicidality per 1000 patients treated) are provided inTable 1. Table 1 Age Range Drug-Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo <18 14 additional cases 18 to 24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25 to 64 1 fewer case > 65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. Although a causal link between the emergence of such symptoms and either the worsening of depression and / or the emergence of suicidal impulses has not been established, there is concern that such symptoms may represent precursors to emerging suicidality. If the decision has been made to discontinue treatment, medication should be tapered, as rapidly as is feasible, but with recognition that abrupt discontinuation can be associated with certain symptoms (see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Discontinuation of Treatment with venlafaxine tablets , for a description of the risks of discontinuation of venlafaxine tablets). Venlafaxine tablets should be discontinued before initiating treatment with the MAOI (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). (2) An analysis for patients meeting criteria for sustained hypertension (defined as treatment-emergent SDBP ≥90 mm Hg and ≥10 mm Hg above baseline for 3 consecutive visits) revealed a dose-dependent increase in the incidence of sustained hypertension for venlafaxine: Probability of Sustained Elevation in SDBP (Pool of Premarketing Venlafaxine Studies) Treatment Group Incidence of Sustained Elevation in SDBP Venlafaxine < 100 mg/day 3% 101 to 200 mg/day 5% 201 to 300 mg/day 7% > 300 mg/day 13% Placebo 2% An analysis of the patients with sustained hypertension and the 19 venlafaxine patients who were discontinued from treatment because of hypertension (<1% of total venlafaxine-treated group) revealed that most of the blood pressure increases were in a modest range (10 to 15 mm Hg, SDBP). Pre-existing hypertension should be controlled before treatment with venlafaxine. There has been a long-standing concern, however, that antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment. The pooled analyses of placebocontrolled trials in adults with MDD or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 295 short-term trials (median duration of 2 months) of 11 antidepressant drugs in over 77,000 patients. Table 1 Age Range Drug-Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo <18 14 additional cases 18 to 24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25 to 64 1 fewer case ≥ 65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. If the decision has been made to discontinue treatment, medication should be tapered, as rapidly as is feasible, but with recognition that abrupt discontinuation can be associated with certain symptoms (see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Discontinuation of Treatment with venlafaxine hydrochloride , for a description of the risks of discontinuation of venlafaxine hydrochloride). Prescriptions for venlafaxine hydrochloride should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management, in order to reduce the risk of overdose. It should be noted that venlafaxine hydrochloride is not approved for use in treating bipolar depression. Serotonin Syndrome The development of a potentially life-threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with SNRIs and SSRIs, including venlaxine hydrochloride, alone but particularly with concomitant use of other serotonergic drugs (including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone, amphetamines, and St. The concomitant use of venlaxine hydrochloride with MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders is contraindicated. Venlaxine hydrochloride should also not be started in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. There may be circumstances when it is necessary to initiate treatment with a MAOI such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue in a patient taking venlaxine hydrochloride. Venlafaxine hydrochloride should be discontinued before initiating treatment with the MAOI (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). If concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride with other serotonergic drugs, including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, buspirone, tryptophan, and St. Treatment with venlafaxine hydrochloride and any concomitant serotonergic agents should be discontinued immediately if the above events occur and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated. Angle-Closure Glaucoma The pupillary dilation that occurs following use of many antidepressant drugs including venlafaxine tablets may trigger an angle closure attack in a patient with automatically narrow angles who does not have a patent iridectomy. (2) An analysis for patients meeting criteria for sustained hypertension (defined as treatment-emergent SDBP ≥ 90 mm Hg and ≥ 10 mm Hg above baseline for 3 consecutive visits) revealed a dose-dependent increase in the incidence of sustained hypertension for venlafaxine: Probability of Sustained Elevation in SDBP (Pool of Premarketing Venlafaxine Studies) Treatment Group Incidence of Sustained Elevation in SDBP Venlafaxine <100 mg/day 3% 101 to 200 mg/day 5% 201 to 300 mg/day 7% >300 mg/day 13% Placebo 2% An analysis of the patients with sustained hypertension and the 19 venlafaxine patients who were discontinued from treatment because of hypertension (<1% of total venlafaxine-treated group) revealed that most of the blood pressure increases were in a modest range (10 to 15 mm Hg, SDBP). Mydriasis Mydriasis has been reported in association with venlafaxine; therefore patients with risk of acute narrow-angle glaucoma (angle-closure glaucoma) should be monitored (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients ). In male patients, SNRI use may result in ejaculatorydelay or failure, decreased libido, and erectile dysfunction. Discuss potential management strategiesto support patients in making informed decisions about treatment.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to venlafaxine hydrochloride or to any excipients in the formulation. The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with venlafaxine tablets or within 7 days of stopping treatment with venlafaxine tablets is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of venlafaxine tablets within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Starting venlafaxine tablets in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are contraindicated in patients: with known hypersensitivity to venlafaxine hydrochloride, desvenlafaxine succinate or to any excipients in the formulation [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including the MAOIs linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) because of the risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration (2.11) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , and Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Hypersensitivity to venlafaxine hydrochloride, desvenlafaxine succinate, or any excipients in the venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules formulation ( 4 ). Concomitant use of monoaminoxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of discontinuing an MAOI ( 4 , 5.2 , 7.1 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Serotonin Syndrome and MAOIs: Do not use MAOI’s intended to treat psychiatric disorders with venlafaxine extended-release tablets or within 7 days of stopping treatment with venlafaxine extended-release tablets. Do not use venlafaxine extended-release tablets within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders. In addition, do not start venlafaxine extended-release tablets in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. ( 4.1 ) 4.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The use of MAOI’s intended to treat psychiatric disorders with venlafaxine extended-release tablets or within 7 days of stopping treatment with venlafaxine extended-release tablets is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of venlafaxine extended-release tablets within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ), and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. Starting venlafaxine extended-release tablets in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are contraindicated in patients: with known hypersensitivity to venlafaxine hydrochloride, desvenlafaxine succinate or to any excipients in the formulation [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )]. taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including the MAOIs linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) because of the risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.11 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), and Drug Interactions ( 7.1) ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are contraindicated in patients: • with known hypersensitivity to venlafaxine hydrochloride, desvenlafaxine succinate or to any excipients in the formulation [see ] . • taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including the MAOIs linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) because of the risk of serotonin syndrome [see , , and ] . • Hypersensitivity to venlafaxine hydrochloride, desvenlafaxine succinate, or any excipients in the venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules formulation ( 4 ). • Concomitant use of monoaminoxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days of discontinuing an MAOI ( 4 , , ). The use of venlafaxine tabletswithin 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are contraindicated in patients: • with known hypersensitivity to venlafaxine hydrochloride, desvenlafaxine succinate or to any excipients in the formulation [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )]. • taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including the MAOIs linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) because of the risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.11 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with venlafaxine hydrochloride or within 7 days of stopping treatment with venlafaxine hydrochloride is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of venlafaxine hydrochloride within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION )
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions As with all drugs, the potential for interaction by a variety of mechanisms is a possibility. Alcohol A single dose of ethanol (0.5 g/kg) had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of venlafaxine or ODV when venlafaxine was administered at 150 mg/day in 15 healthy male subjects. Additionally, administration of venlafaxine in a stable regimen did not exaggerate the psychomotor and psychometric effects induced by ethanol in these same subjects when they were not receiving venlafaxine. Cimetidine Concomitant administration of cimetidine and venlafaxine in a steady-state study for both drugs resulted in inhibition of first-pass metabolism of venlafaxine in 18 healthy subjects. The oral clearance of venlafaxine was reduced by about 43%, and the exposure (AUC) and maximum concentration (C max ) of the drug were increased by about 60%. However, coadministration of cimetidine had no apparent effect on the pharmacokinetics of ODV, which is present in much greater quantity in the circulation than is venlafaxine. The overall pharmacological activity of venlafaxine plus ODV is expected to increase only slightly, and no dosage adjustment should be necessary for most normal adults. However, for patients with preexisting hypertension, and for elderly patients or patients with hepatic dysfunction, the interaction associated with the concomitant use of venlafaxine and cimetidine is not known and potentially could be more pronounced. Therefore, caution is advised with such patients. Diazepam Under steady-state conditions for venlafaxine administered at 150 mg/day, a single 10 mg dose of diazepam did not appear to affect the pharmacokinetics of either venlafaxine or ODV in 18 healthy male subjects. Venlafaxine also did not have any effect on the pharmacokinetics of diazepam or its active metabolite, desmethyldiazepam, or affect the psychomotor and psychometric effects induced by diazepam. Haloperidol Venlafaxine administered under steady-state conditions at 150 mg/day in 24 healthy subjects decreased total oral-dose clearance (Cl/F) of a single 2 mg dose of haloperidol by 42%, which resulted in a 70% increase in haloperidol AUC. In addition, the haloperidol C max increased 88% when coadministered with venlafaxine, but the haloperidol elimination half-life (t 1/2 ) was unchanged. The mechanism explaining this finding is unknown. Lithium The steady-state pharmacokinetics of venlafaxine administered at 150 mg/day were not affected when a single 600 mg oral dose of lithium was administered to 12 healthy male subjects. O-desmethylvenlafaxine (ODV) also was unaffected. Venlafaxine had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of lithium (see also CNS-Active Drugs , below ). Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Protein Venlafaxine is not highly bound to plasma proteins; therefore, administration of venlafaxine tablets to a patient taking another drug that is highly protein bound should not cause increased free concentrations of the other drug. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., NSAIDs, Aspirin, and Warfarin) Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies of the case-control and cohort design that have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding have also shown that concurrent use of an NSAID or aspirin may potentiate this risk of bleeding. Altered anticoagulant effects, including increased bleeding, have been reported when SSRIs and SNRIs are coadministered with warfarin. Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when venlafaxine is initiated or discontinued. Drugs that Inhibit Cytochrome P450 Isoenzymes CYP2D6 Inhibitors: In vitro and in vivo studies indicate that venlafaxine is metabolized to its active metabolite, ODV, by CYP2D6, the isoenzyme that is responsible for the genetic polymorphism seen in the metabolism of many antidepressants. Therefore, the potential exists for a drug interaction between drugs that inhibit CYP2D6-mediated metabolism and venlafaxine. However, although imipramine partially inhibited the CYP2D6-mediated metabolism of venlafaxine, resulting in higher plasma concentrations of venlafaxine and lower plasma concentrations of ODV, the total concentration of active compounds (venlafaxine plus ODV) was not affected. Additionally, in a clinical study involving CYP2D6-poor and -extensive metabolizers, the total concentration of active compounds (venlafaxine plus ODV), was similar in the two metabolizer groups. Therefore, no dosage adjustment is required when venlafaxine is coadministered with a CYP2D6 inhibitor. Ketoconazole A pharmacokinetic study with ketoconazole 100 mg b.i.d. with a single dose of venlafaxine 50 mg in extensive metabolizers (EM; n = 14) and 25 mg in poor metabolizers (PM; n = 6) of CYP2D6 resulted in higher plasma concentrations of both venlafaxine and O-desvenlafaxine (ODV) in most subjects following administration of ketoconazole. Venlafaxine C max increased by 26% in EM subjects and 48% in PM subjects. C max values for ODV increased by 14% and 29% in EM and PM subjects, respectively. Venlafaxine AUC increased by 21% in EM subjects and 70% in PM subjects (range in PMs - 2% to 206%), and AUC values for ODV increased by 23% and 33% in EM and PM subjects (range in PMs - 38% to 105%) subjects, respectively. Combined AUCs of venlafaxine and ODV increased on average by approximately 23% in EMS and 53% in PMs (range in PMs – 4% to 134%). Concomitant use of CYP3A4 inhibitors and venlafaxine may increase levels of venlafaxine and ODV. Therefore, caution is advised if a patient's therapy includes a CYP3A4 inhibitor and venlafaxine concomitantly. CYP3A4 Inhibitors In vitro studies indicate that venlafaxine is likely metabolized to a minor, less active metabolite, N-desmethylvenlafaxine, by CYP3A4. Because CYP3A4 is typically a minor pathway relative to CYP2D6 in the metabolism of venlafaxine, the potential for a clinically significant drug interaction between drugs that inhibit CYP3A4-mediated metabolism and venlafaxine is small. The concomitant use of venlafaxine with a drug treatment(s) that potently inhibits both CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, the primary metabolizing enzymes for venlafaxine, has not been studied. Therefore, caution is advised should a patient's therapy include venlafaxine and any agent(s) that produce potent simultaneous inhibition of these two enzyme systems. Drugs Metabolized by Cytochrome P450 Isoenzymes CYP2D6: In vitro studies indicate that venlafaxine is a relatively weak inhibitor of CYP2D6. These findings have been confirmed in a clinical drug interaction study comparing the effect of venlafaxine to that of fluoxetine on the CYP2D6-mediated metabolism of dextromethorphan to dextrorphan. Imipramine Venlafaxine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of imipramine and 2-OH-imipramine. However, desipramine AUC, C max , and C min increased by about 35% in the presence of venlafaxine. The 2-OH-desipramine AUCs increased by at least 2.5 fold (with venlafaxine 37.5 mg q12h) and by 4.5 fold (with venlafaxine 75 mg q12h). Imipramine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of venlafaxine and ODV. The clinical significance of elevated 2-OH-desipramine levels is unknown. Metoprolol Concomitant administration of venlafaxine (50 mg every 8 hours for 5 days) and metoprolol (100 mg every 24 hours for 5 days) to 18 healthy male subjects in a pharmacokinetic interaction study for both drugs resulted in an increase of plasma concentrations of metoprolol by approximately 30 to 40% without altering the plasma concentrations of its active metabolite, α-hydroxymetoprolol. Metoprolol did not alter the pharmacokinetic profile of venlafaxine or its active metabolite, O-desmethylvenlafaxine. Venlafaxine appeared to reduce the blood pressure lowering effect of metoprolol in this study. The clinical relevance of this finding for hypertensive patients is unknown. Caution should be exercised with coadministration of venlafaxine and metoprolol. Venlafaxine treatment has been associated with dose-related increases in blood pressure in some patients. It is recommended that patients receiving venlafaxine tablets have regular monitoring of blood pressure (see WARNINGS ). Risperidone Venlafaxine administered under steady-state conditions at 150 mg/day slightly inhibited the CYP2D6-mediated metabolism of risperidone (administered as a single 1 mg oral dose) to its active metabolite, 9-hydroxyrisperidone, resulting in an approximate 32% increase in risperidone AUC. However, venlafaxine coadministration did not significantly alter the pharmacokinetic profile of the total active moiety (risperidone plus 9-hydroxyrisperidone). CYP3A4 Venlafaxine did not inhibit CYP3A4 in vitro . This finding was confirmed in vivo by clinical drug interaction studies in which venlafaxine did not inhibit the metabolism of several CYP3A4 substrates, including alprazolam, diazepam, and terfenadine. Indinavir In a study of 9 healthy volunteers, venlafaxine administered under steady-state conditions at 150 mg/day resulted in a 28% decrease in the AUC of a single 800 mg oral dose of indinavir and a 36% decrease in indinavir C max . Indinavir did not affect the pharmacokinetics of venlafaxine and ODV. The clinical significance of this finding is unknown. CYP1A2 Venlafaxine did not inhibit CYP1A2 in vitro . This finding was confirmed in vivo by a clinical drug interaction study in which venlafaxine did not inhibit the metabolism of caffeine, a CYP1A2 substrate. CYP2C9 Venlafaxine did not inhibit CYP2C9 in vitro . In vivo , venlafaxine 75 mg by mouth every 12 hours did not alter the pharmacokinetics of a single 500 mg dose of tolbutamide or the CYP2C9 mediated formation of 4-hydroxy-tolbutamide. CYP2C19 Venlafaxine did not inhibit the metabolism of diazepam which is partially metabolized by CYP2C19 (see Diazepam above). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors See CONTRAINDICATIONS . CNS-Active Drugs The risk of using venlafaxine in combination with other CNS-active drugs has not been systematically evaluated (except in the case of those CNS-active drugs noted above). Consequently, caution is advised if the concomitant administration of venlafaxine and such drugs is required. (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Table 15: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) Clinical Impact The concomitant use of SNRIs, including venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules, with MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration (2.11) , Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules with other serotonergic drugs (including other SNRIs, SSRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan, and St.John's Wort) increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Monitor for symptoms of serotonin syndrome when venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is used concomitantly with other drugs that may affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter systems. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Dosage and Administration (2.11) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis Clinical Impact Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules with an antiplatelet or anticoagulant drug may potentiate the risk of bleeding. This may be due to the effect of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules on the release of serotonin by platelets. Intervention Closely monitor for bleeding for patients receiving an antiplatelet or anticoagulant drug when venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Effect of CYP3A Inhibitors Clinical Impact Concomitant use of a CYP3A inhibitor increases the C max and AUC of venlafaxine and O-desmethylvenlafaxine (ODV) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of toxicity of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules. Intervention Consider reducing the dose of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules. CYP2D6 Substrates Clinical Impact Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules increases C max and AUC of a CYP2D6 substrate, which may increase the risk of toxicity of the CYP2D6 substrate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention Consider reduction in dose of concomitant CYP2D6 substrates. 7.2 Other Drug Interactions with Venlafaxine Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Central Nervous System (CNS)-Active Drugs The risk of using venlafaxine concomitantly with other CNS-active drugs (including alcohol) has not been systematically evaluated. Consequently, caution is advised when venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are taken concomitantly in combination with other CNS-active drugs. Weight Loss Agents Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules and weight loss agents is not recommended. The safety and efficacy of venlafaxine therapy in combination with weight loss agents, including phentermine, have not been established. Venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are not indicated for weight loss alone or in combination with other products. Laboratory Test Interference False-positive urine immunoassay screening tests for phencyclidine (PCP) and amphetamine have been reported in patients taking venlafaxine due to lack of specificity of the screening tests. False-positive test results may be expected for several days following discontinuation of venlafaxine therapy. Confirmatory tests, such as gas chromatography/mass spectrometry, will distinguish venlafaxine from PCP and amphetamine. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS MAOI's: concomitant use contraindicated ( 4 ). Avoid MAOI's 14 days before starting venlafaxine and 7 days after stopping venlafaxine ( 5.2 ). Cimetidine: Caution in patients with pre-existing hypertension, in elderly patients and patients with hepatic dysfunction. ( 7.2 ) Haloperidol: Increase in Haloperidol AUC and C max . ( 7.4 ) Ketoconazole: Increase in venlafaxine and O-desmethylvenlafaxine AUC and C max . Caution when using venlafaxine with substances that inhibit both CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. ( 7.7 ) Metoprolol: Possibly reduced blood-pressure lowering effect despite increased metoprolol plasma levels. Caution should be exercised with co-administration of venlafaxine and metoprolol. ( 7.8 ) CNS-active drugs: Caution when using venlafaxine with such drugs. ( 7.10 ) Serotonergic drugs (e.g., triptans, SSRIs, other SNRIs, linezolid, lithium, tramadol, or St. John's Wort): Potential for serotonin syndrome. Careful patient observation advised. ( 7.10 ) Tryptophan supplements: Concomitant use not recommended. ( 7.10 ) 7.1 Alcohol A single dose of ethanol (0.5 g/kg) had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of venlafaxine or O-desmethylvenlafaxine (ODV) when venlafaxine was administered at 150 mg/day in 15 healthy male subjects. 7.2 Cimetidine Concomitant administration of cimetidine and venlafaxine in a steady-state study for both drugs resulted in inhibition of first-pass metabolism of venlafaxine in 18 healthy subjects. However, coadministration of cimetidine had no apparent effect on the pharmacokinetics of ODV, which is present in much greater quantity in the circulation than venlafaxine. However, for patients with pre-existing hypertension, and for elderly patients or patients with hepatic dysfunction, the interaction associated with the concomitant use of venlafaxine and cimetidine is not known and potentially could be more pronounced. 7.3 Diazepam Under steady-state conditions for venlafaxine administered at 150 mg/day, a single 10 mg dose of diazepam did not appear to affect the pharmacokinetics of either venlafaxine or ODV in 18 healthy male subjects. 7.4 Haloperidol Venlafaxine administered under steady-state conditions at 150 mg/day in 24 healthy subjects decreased total oral-dose clearance (Cl/F) of a single 2 mg dose of haloperidol by 42%, which resulted in a 70% increase in haloperidol AUC. 7.5 Lithium The steady-state pharmacokinetics of venlafaxine administered at 150 mg/day were not affected when a single 600 mg oral dose of lithium was administered to 12 healthy male subjects. ODV also was unaffected. Venlafaxine had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of lithium (see also CNS-Active Drugs, below). 7.6 Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Proteins Venlafaxine is not highly bound to plasma proteins; therefore, administration of venlafaxine extended-release tablets to a patient taking another drug that is highly protein bound should not cause increased free concentrations of the other drug. 7.7 Drugs that Inhibit Cytochrome P450 Isoenzymes CYP2D6 Inhibitors: In vitro and in vivo studies indicate that venlafaxine is metabolized to its active metabolite, ODV, by CYP2D6, the isoenzyme that is responsible for the genetic polymorphism seen in the metabolism of many antidepressants. Therefore, the potential exists for a drug interaction between drugs that inhibit CYP2D6-mediated metabolism of venlafaxine, reducing the metabolism of venlafaxine to ODV, resulting in increased plasma concentrations of venlafaxine and decreased concentrations of the active metabolite. CYP2D6 inhibitors such as quinidine would be expected to do this, but the effect would be similar to what is seen in patients who are genetically CYP2D6 poor metabolizers [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Ketoconazole: A pharmacokinetic study with ketoconazole 100 mg b.i.d. with a single dose of venlafaxine 50 mg in extensive metabolizers (EM; n=14) and 25 mg in poor metabolizers (PM; n=6) of CYP2D6 resulted in higher plasma concentrations of both venlafaxine and O-desmethylvenlafaxine (ODV) in most subjects following administration of ketoconazole. Venlafaxine AUC increased by 21% in EM subjects and 70% in PM subjects (range in PM's -2% to 206%), and AUC values for ODV increased by 23% and 33% in EM and PM (range in PM's 38% to 105%) subjects, respectively. Combined AUC's of venlafaxine and ODV increased on average by approximately 23% in EM's and 53% in PM's, (range in PM's 4% to 134%). 7.8 Drugs Metabolized by Cytochrome P450 Isoenzymes CYP2D6 In vitro studies indicate that venlafaxine is a relatively weak inhibitor of CYP2D6. These findings have been confirmed in a clinical drug interaction study comparing the effect of venlafaxine with that of fluoxetine on the CYP2D6-mediated metabolism of dextromethorphan to dextrorphan. Imipramine - Venlafaxine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of imipramine and 2-OH-imipramine. The 2-OH-desipramine AUC's increased by at least 2.5 fold (with venlafaxine 37.5 mg q12h) and by 4.5 fold (with venlafaxine 75 mg q12h). Metoprolol - Concomitant administration of venlafaxine (50 mg every 8 hours for 5 days) and metoprolol (100 mg every 24 hours for 5 days) to 18 healthy male subjects in a pharmacokinetic interaction study for both drugs resulted in an increase of plasma concentrations of metoprolol by approximately 30-40% without altering the plasma concentrations of its active metabolite, α-hydroxymetoprolol. It is recommended that patients receiving venlafaxine extended-release tablets have regular monitoring of blood pressure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ]. Risperidone - Venlafaxine administered under steady-state conditions at 150 mg/day slightly inhibited the CYP2D6-mediated metabolism of risperidone (administered as a single 1 mg oral dose) to its active metabolite, 9-hydroxyrisperidone, resulting in an approximate 32% increase in risperidone AUC. Indinavir - In a study of 9 healthy volunteers, venlafaxine administered under steady-state conditions at 150 mg/day resulted in a 28% decrease in the AUC of a single 800 mg oral dose of indinavir and a 36% decrease in indinavir C max . CYP2C19 Venlafaxine did not inhibit the metabolism of diazepam, which is partially metabolized by CYP2C19 (see Diazepam above). 7.9 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) [See Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 and 2.7 ), Contraindications ( 4.1 ), and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) .] 7.10 Other Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of serotonergic drugs (including other SNRIs, SSRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan, and St. John’s Wort) with venlafaxine extended-release tablets increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of venlafaxine extended-release tablets and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] 7.11 Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., NSAID's, Aspirin, and Warfarin) Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies of the case-control and cohort design that have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding. These studies have also shown that concurrent use of an NSAID or aspirin may potentiate this risk of bleeding. Altered anticoagulant effects, including increased bleeding, have been reported when SSRI's and SNRI's are coadministered with warfarin. Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when venlafaxine extended-release tablets are initiated or discontinued [s ee Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 ) ]. 7.12 Electroconvulsive Therapy There are no clinical data establishing the benefit of electroconvulsive therapy combined with venlafaxine extended-release tablets treatment. 7.13 Postmarketing Spontaneous Drug Interaction Reports There have been reports of elevated clozapine levels that were temporally associated with adverse reactions, including seizures, following the addition of venlafaxine. There have been reports of increases in prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, or INR when venlafaxine was given to patients receiving warfarin therapy. 7.14 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions False-positive urine immunoassay screening tests for phencyclidine (PCP) and amphetamine have been reported in patients taking venlafaxine. This is due to lack of specificity of the screening tests. False positive test results may be expected for several days following discontinuation of venlafaxine therapy. Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules with other serotonergic drugs (including other SNRIs, SSRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan, and St. John's Wort) increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Closely monitor for bleeding for patients receiving an antiplatelet or anticoagulant drug when venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Intervention Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.11 ), Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules with other serotonergic drugs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Monitor for symptoms of serotonin syndrome when venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are used concomitantly with other drugs that may affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter systems. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.11 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Intervention Closely monitor for bleeding for patients receiving an antiplatelet or anticoagulant drug when venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . Effect of CYP3A Inhibitors Clinical Impact Concomitant use of a CYP3A inhibitor increases the C max and AUC of venlafaxine and O-desmethylvenlafaxine (ODV) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may increase the risk of toxicity of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules Intervention Consider reducing the dose of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules. CYP2D6 Substrates Clinical Impact Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules increases C max and AUC of a CYP2D6 substrate, which may increase the risk of toxicity of the CYP2D6 substrate [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see , Contraindications (4) and ]. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see and ]. Intervention Closely monitor for bleeding for patients receiving an antiplatelet or anticoagulant drug when venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules is initiated or discontinued [see ] . Effect of CYP3A Inhibitors Clinical Impact Concomitant use of a CYP3A inhibitor increases the C max and AUC of venlafaxine and O-desmethylvenlafaxine (ODV) [see ] , which may increase the risk of toxicity of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules. CYP2D6 Substrates Clinical Impact Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules increases C max and AUC of a CYP2D6 substrate, which may increase the risk of toxicity of the CYP2D6 substrate [see ] . However, co-administration of cimetidine had no apparent effect on the pharmacokinetics of ODV, which is present in much greater quantity in the circulation than is venlafaxine. Venlafaxine had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of lithium ( see also CNS-Active Drugs, below ). Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when venlafaxine tabletsis initiated or discontinued. Additionally, in a clinical study involving CYP2D6-poor and –extensive metabolizers, the total concentration of active compounds (venlafaxine plus ODV), was similar in the two metabolizer groups. Venlafaxine AUC increased by 21% in EM subjects and 70% in PM subjects (range in PMs – 2% to 206%), and AUC values for ODV increased by 23% and 33% in EM and PM subjects (range in PMs – 38% to 105%) subjects, respectively. Combined AUCs of venlafaxine and ODV increased on average by approximately 23% in Ems and 53% in PMs (range in PMs 4% to 134%). CYP3A4 Inhibitors: In vitro studies indicate that venlafaxine is likely metabolized to a minor, less active metabolite, N-desmethylvenlafaxine, by CYP3A4. Imipramine: Venlafaxine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of imipramine and 2-OH-imipramine. Metoprolol: Concomitant administration of venlafaxine (50 mg every 8 hours for 5 days) and metoprolol (100 mg every 24 hours for 5 days) to 18 healthy male subjects in a pharmacokinetic interaction study for both drugs resulted in an increase of plasma concentrations of metoprolol by approximately 30-40% without altering the plasma concentrations of its active metabolite, ⛙-hydroxymetoprolol. Risperidone: Venlafaxine administered under steady-state conditions at 150 mg/day slightly inhibited the CYP2D6-mediated metabolism of risperidone (administered as a single 1 mg oral dose) to its active metabolite, 9-hydroxyrisperidone, resulting in an approximate 32% increase in risperidone AUC. CYP3A4: Venlafaxine did not inhibit CYP3A4 in vitro. Indinavir: In a study of 9 healthy volunteers, venlafaxine administered under steady-state conditions at 150 mg/day resulted in a 28% decrease in the AUC of a single 800 mg oral dose of indinavir and a 36% decrease in indinavir C max . CYP1A2: Venlafaxine did not inhibit CYP1A2 in vitro. CYP2C9: Venlafaxine did not inhibit CYP2C9 in vitro. In vivo, venlafaxine 75 mg by mouth every 12 hours did not alter the pharmacokinetics of a single 500 mg dose of tolbutamide or the CYP2C9 mediated formation of 4-hydroxy-tolbutamide. CYP2C19: Venlafaxine did not inhibit the metabolism of diazepam which is partially metabolized by CYP2C19 (see Diazepam above). (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ) Serotonergic Drugs: Based on the mechanism of action of SNRIs and SSRIs, including venlafaxine hydrochloride, and the potential for serotonin syndrome, caution is advised when venlafaxine is coadministered with other drugs that may affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter systems, such as triptans, lithium, fentanyl, tramadol, amphetamines, or St. John’s Wort (see WARNINGS: Serotonin Syndrome ). If concomitant treatment of venlafaxine tablets with these drugs is clinically warranted, careful observation of the patient is advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS, Serotonin Syndrome ). The concomitant use of venlafaxine tablets with tryptophan supplements is not recommended (see WARNINGS, Serotonin Syndrome ). Triptans: There have been rare postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome with use of an SSRI and a triptan. If concomitant treatment of venlafaxine tabletswith a triptan is clinically warranted, careful observation of the patient is advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases (see WARNINGS, Serotonin Syndrome ). Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions False-positive urine immunoassay screening tests for phencyclidine (PCP) and amphetamine have been reported in patients taking venlafaxine. Electroconvulsive Therapy: There are no clinical data establishing the benefit of electroconvulsive therapy combined with venlafaxine tablet treatment. Postmarketing Spontaneous Drug Interaction Reports See ADVERSE REACTIONS, Postmarketing Reports . Intervention Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules are contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.11 ), Contraindications( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Effect of CYP3A Inhibitors Clinical Impact Concomitant use of a CYP3A inhibitor increases the C max and AUC of venlafaxine and O-desmethylvenlafaxine (ODV) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which may increase the risk of toxicity of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules. CYP2D6 Substrates Clinical Impact Concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride extended-release capsules increases C max and AUC of a CYP2D6 substrate, which may increase the risk of toxicity of the CYP2D6 substrate [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Venlafaxine had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of lithium (see also CNS-Active Drugs , below). Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Protein Venlafaxine is not highly bound to plasma proteins; therefore, administration of venlafaxine hydrochloride to a patient taking another drug that is highly protein bound should not cause increased free concentrations of the other drug. Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when venlafaxine hydrochloride is initiated or discontinued. Drugs that Inhibit Cytochrome P450 Isoenzymes CYP2D6 Inhibitors In vitro and in vivo studies indicate that venlafaxine is metabolized to its active metabolite, ODV, by CYP2D6, the isoenzyme that is responsible for the genetic polymorphism seen in the metabolism of many antidepressants. with a single dose of venlafaxine 50 mg in extensive metabolizers (EM; n = 14) and and 25 mg in poor metabolizers (PM; n = 6) of CYP2D6, respectively, resulted in higher plasma concentrations of both venlafaxine and O-desvenlafaxine (ODV) in most subjects following administration of ketoconazole. Venlafaxine AUC increased by 21% in EM subjects and 70% in PM subjects (range in PMs - 2% to 206%), and AUC values for ODV increased by 23% and 33% in EM and PM (range in PMs - 38% to 105%) subjects, respectively. Combined AUCs of venlafaxine and ODV increased on average by approximately 23% in EMs and 53% in PMs, (range in PMs 4% to 134%). Drugs Metabolized by Cytochrome P450 Isoenzymes CYP2D6 In vitro studies indicate that venlafaxine is a relatively weak inhibitor of CYP2D6. Metoprolol Concomitant administration of venlafaxine (50 mg every 8 hours for 5 days) and metoprolol (100 mg every 24 hours for 5 days) to 18 healthy male subjects in a pharmacokinetic interaction study for both drugs resulted in an increase of plasma concentrations of metoprolol by approximately 30-40% without altering the plasma concentrations of its active metabolite, α-hydroxymetoprolol. It is recommended that patients receiving venlafaxine hydrochloride have regular monitoring of blood pressure (see WARNINGS ). CYP2C9 Venlafaxine did not inhibit CYP2C9 in vitro. Consequently, caution is advised if the concomitant administration of venlafaxine and such drugs is required (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ) . Serotonergic Drugs Based on the mechanism of action of SNRIs and SSRIs, including venlafaxine hydrochloride and the potential for serotonin syndrome, caution is advised when venlafaxine is co-administered with other drugs that may affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter systems, such as triptans, lithium, fentanyl, tramadol, amphetamines, or St. John's Wort (see WARNINGS; Serotonin Syndrome ). If concomitant treatment of venlafaxine with these drugs is clinically warranted, careful observation of the patient is advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS, Serotonin Syndrome ). The concomitant use of venlafaxine hydrochloride with tryptophan supplements is not recommended (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS, Serotonin Syndrome ). Triptans There have been rare postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome with use of an SSRI and a triptan. If concomitant treatment of venlafaxine with a triptan is clinically warranted, careful observation of the patient is advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases (see WARNINGS, Serotonin Syndrome ). Electroconvulsive Therapy There are no clinical data establishing the benefit of electroconvulsive therapy combined with venlafaxine hydrochloride treatment.

=== DOXAZOSIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Doxazosin tablets are an alpha 1 adrenergic antagonist indicated for: • Signs and symptoms of Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) • Treatment of HypertensionTreatment of Hypertension 1.1 Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) Doxazosin tablets are indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of BPH. 1.2 Hypertension Doxazosin tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes, including this drug. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. Doxazosin tablets may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensives. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Doxazosin tablets are an alpha 1 adrenergic antagonist indicated for: Signs and symptoms of Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) Treatment of Hypertension 1.1 Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) Doxazosin tablets are indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of BPH. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Doxazosin tablets are an alpha 1 adrenergic antagonist indicated for: ( 1 ) Signs and symptoms of Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) Treatment of Hypertension 1.1 Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) Doxazosin tablets are indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of BPH. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program's Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Doxazosin tablets are an alpha1 adrenergic antagonist indicated for: Signs and symptoms of Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) Treatment of Hypertension 1.1 Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) Doxazosin tablets are indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of BPH. Doxazosin tablets are may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensives. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Doxazosin tablets, USP are an alpha 1 adrenergic antagonist indicated for: Signs and symptoms of Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) Treatment of Hypertension 1.1 Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) Doxazosin tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of BPH. 1.2 Hypertension Doxazosin tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Doxazosin tablets, USP may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensives. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Doxazosin is an alpha 1 adrenergic antagonist indicated for: • Signs and symptoms of Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) ( 1.1 ) • Treatment of Hypertension ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) Doxazosin tablet is indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of BPH. 1.2 Hypertension Doxazosin tablet is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Doxazosin tablet may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensives. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Doxazosin tablets are an alpha 1 adrenergic antagonist indicated for: Signs and symptoms of Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) Treatment of HypertensionTreatment of Hypertension 1.1 Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) Doxazosin tablets are indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of BPH.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For the treatment of BPH: Initiate therapy at 1 mg once daily. Dose may be titrated at 1 to 2 week intervals, up to 8 mg once daily.( 2.2 ) • For the treatment hypertension: Initiate therapy at 1 mg once daily. Dose may be titrated as needed, up to 16 mg once daily. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Dosing Information Following the initial dose and with each dose increase of doxazosin tablets, monitor blood pressure for at least 6 hours following administration. If doxazosin tablets administration is discontinued for several days, therapy should be restarted using the initial dosing regimen. 2.2 Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia The recommended initial dosage of doxazosin tablets is 1 mg given once daily either in the morning or evening. Depending on the individual patient’s urodynamics and BPH symptomatology, the dose may be titrated at 1 to 2 week intervals to 2 mg, and thereafter to 4 mg and 8 mg once daily. The maximum recommended dose for BPH is 8 mg once daily. Routinely monitor blood pressure in these patients. 2.3 Hypertension The initial dosage of doxazosin tablets is 1 mg given once daily. Daily dosage may be doubled up 16 mg once daily, as needed, to achieve the desired reduction in blood pressure. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For the treatment of BPH: Initiate therapy at 1 mg once daily. Dose may be titrated at 1 to 2-week intervals, up to 8 mg once daily. ( 2.2 ) For the treatment of hypertension: Initiate therapy at 1 mg once daily. Dose may be titrated at 1 to 2 week intervals, up to 8 mg once daily. Depending on the individual patient's urodynamics and BPH symptomatology, the dose may be titrated at 1 to 2 week intervals to 2 mg, and thereafter to 4 mg and 8 mg once daily. Dose maybe titrated at 1 to 2 week intervals, up to 8 mg once daily.( 2.2 ) For the treatment hypertension: Initiate therapy at 1 mg once daily. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Dosing Information Following the initial dose and with each dose increase of doxazosin, monitor blood pressure for at least 6 hours following administration. If doxazosin administration is discontinued for several days, therapy should be restarted using the initial dosing regimen. 2.2 Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia The recommended initial dosage of doxazosin is 1 mg given once daily either in the morning or evening. 2.3 Hypertension The initial dosage of doxazosin is 1 mg given once daily. ( 2.2 ) For the treatment hypertension: Initiate therapy at 1 mg once daily. ( 2.2 ) • For the treatment of hypertension: Initiate therapy at 1 mg once daily. If Doxazosin tablet administration is discontinued for several days, therapy should be restarted using the initial dosing regimen. 2.2 Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia The recommended initial dosage of Doxazosin tablet is 1 mg given once daily either in the morning or evening. 2.3 Hypertension The initial dosage of Doxazosin tablet is 1 mg given once daily. Dose may be titrated at 1 to 2 week intervals, up to 8 mg once daily.( 2.2 ) For the treatment hypertension: Initiate therapy at 1 mg once daily.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of doxazosin tablets is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to doxazosin, other quinazolines (e.g., prazosin, terazosin), or any of its components. • Hypersensitivity to doxazosin, other quinazolines, or any other ingredient in doxazosin tablets. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of doxazosin mesylate is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to doxazosin, other quinazolines (e.g., prazosin, terazosin), or any of its components. Hypersensitivity to doxazosin, other quinazolines, or any other ingredient in doxazosin mesylate. Hypersensitivity to doxazosin, other quinazolines, or any other ingredient in doxazosin tablets. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of Doxazosin tablet is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to doxazosin, other quinazolines (e.g., prazosin, terazosin), or any of its components. • Hypersensitivity to doxazosin, other quinazolines, or any other ingredient in Doxazosin.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A inhibitors may increase exposure to doxazosin and increased risk of hypotension. ( 7.1 ) • Concomitant administration of doxazosin tablets with a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor can result in additive blood pressure lowering effects and symptomatic hypotension. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 CYP 3A Inhibitors In vitro studies suggest that doxazosin is a substrate of CYP 3A4. Strong CYP3A inhibitors may increase exposure to doxazosin. Monitor blood pressure and for symptoms of hypotension when doxazosin tablets are used concomitantly with strong CYP3A inhibitors [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 7.2 Phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) Inhibitors Concomitant administration of doxazosin tablets with a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor can result in additive blood pressure lowering effects and symptomatic hypotension. Monitor blood pressure and for symptoms of hypotension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A inhibitors may increase exposure to doxazosin and increased risk of hypotension. ( 7.1 ) Concomitant administration of doxazosin mesylate with a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor can result in additive blood pressure lowering effects and symptomatic hypotension. Monitor blood pressure and for symptoms of hypotension when doxazosin mesylate is used concomitantly with strong CYP3A inhibitors [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.2 Phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) Inhibitors Concomitant administration of doxazosin mesylate with a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor can result in additive blood pressure lowering effects and symptomatic hypotension. Monitor blood pressure and for symptoms of hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. ( 7.1 ) Concomitant administration of doxazosin tablets with a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor can result in additive blood pressure lowering effects and symptomatic hypotension. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 CYP3A Inhibitors In vitro studies suggest that doxazosin is a substrate of CYP3A4. Monitor blood pressure and for symptoms of hypotension when doxazosin tablets are used concomitantly with strong CYP3A inhibitors [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Monitor blood pressure and for symptoms of hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A inhibitors may increase exposure to doxazosin and increased risk of hypotension ( 7.1 ) Concomitant administration of doxazosin with a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor can result in additive blood pressure lowering effects and symptomatic hypotension. Monitor blood pressure and for symptoms of hypotension when doxazosin is used concomitantly with strong CYP3A inhibitors [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.2 Phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitors Concomitant administration of doxazosin with a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor can result in additive blood pressure lowering effects and symptomatic hypotension. Monitor blood pressure and for symptoms of hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Monitor blood pressure and for symptoms of hypotension when doxazosin is used concomitantly with strong CYP3A inhibitors [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . ( 7.1 ) • Concomitant administration of Doxazosin with a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor can result in additive blood pressure lowering effects and symptomatic hypotension. Monitor blood pressure and for symptoms of hypotension when Doxazosin is used concomitantly with strong CYP3A inhibitors [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Monitor blood pressure and for symptoms of hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Drug Interactions There are only limited data on the effects of drugs known to influence the hepatic metabolism of doxazosin (e.g., cimetidine). Cimetidine: In healthy volunteers, the administration of a single 1 mg dose of doxazosin on day 1 of a four-day regimen of oral cimetidine (400 mg twice daily) resulted in a 10% increase in mean AUC of doxazosin, and a slight but not significant increase in mean C max and mean half-life of doxazosin. In vitro data in human plasma indicate that Doxazosin has no effect on protein binding of digoxin, warfarin, phenytoin, or indomethacin.

=== DULOXETINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Duloxetine delayed-release capsules is indicated for the treatment of: Major depressive disorder in adults Generalized anxiety disorder in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain in adults Fibromyalgia in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for the treatment of the following conditions: Major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults ( 1 ) Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older ( 1 ) Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain (DPNP) in adults ( 1 ) Fibromyalgia (FM) in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older ( 1 ) Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are indicated for the treatment of: Major depressive disorder in adults Generalized anxiety disorder in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain in adults Fibromyalgia in adults Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults Additional pediatric use information is approved for Eli Lilly and Company, Inc.’s CYMBALTA (duloxetine) delayed-release capsules. However, due to Eli Lilly and Company Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information. Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for the treatment of the following conditions: Major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults ( 1 ) Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older ( 1 ) Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain (DPNP) in adults ( 1 ) Fibromyalgia (FM) in adults ( 1 ) Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are indicated for the treatment of: Major depressive disorder in adults Generalized anxiety disorder in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain in adults Fibromyalgia in adults Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for the treatment of the following conditions: Major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults (1) Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older (1) Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain (DPNP) in adults (1) Fibromyalgia (FM) in adults Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are indicated for the treatment of: Major depressive disorder in adults Generalized anxiety disorder in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain in adults Fibromyalgia in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for the treatment of the following conditions: Major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults ( 1 ) Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older ( 1 ) Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain (DPNP) in adults ( 1 ) Fibromyalgia (FM) in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older ( 1 ) Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are indicated for the treatment of: • Major depressive disorder in adults • Generalized anxiety disorder in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older • Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain in adults • Fibromyalgia in adults • Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for the treatment of the following conditions: • Major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults ( 1 ) • Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older ( 1 ) • Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain (DPNP) in adults ( 1 ) • Fibromyalgia (FM) in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older ( 1 ) • Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Duloxetine delayed-release capsule is a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for the treatment of the following conditions: Major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults ( 1 ) Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older ( 1 ) Diabetic peripheral neuropathic Pain (DPNP) in adults ( 1 ) Fibromyalgia (FM) in adults ( 1 )and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older ( 1 ) Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults ( 1 ) Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are indicated for the treatment of: Major depressive disorder in adults Generalized anxiety disorder in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain in adults Fibromyalgia in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Duloxetine delayed-release capsule is a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) indicated for the treatment of the following conditions: Major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults ( 1 ) Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older ( 1 ) Diabetic peripheral neuropathic Pain (DPNP) in adults ( 1 ) Fibromyalgia (FM) in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older ( 1 ) Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults ( 1 ) Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are indicated for the treatment of: Major depressive disorder in adults Generalized anxiety disorder in adults and pediatric patients 7 years of age and older Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain in adults Fibromyalgia in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older Chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take Duloxetine delayed-release capsules once daily, with or without food. Swallow whole; do not crush, chew, or open capsule ( 2.1 ) Indication Starting Dose Target Dose Maximum Dose MDD ( 2.2 ) 40 mg/day to 60 mg/day Acute Treatment: 40 mg/day (20 mg twice daily) to 60 mg/day (once daily or as 30 mg twice daily); Maintenance Treatment: 60 mg/day 120 mg/day GAD ( 2.3 ) Adults 60 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 120 mg/day Geriatric 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 120 mg/day Pediatrics (7 to 17 years of age) 30 mg/day 30 to 60 mg/day (once daily) 120 mg/day DPNP ( 2.4 ) 60 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day FM ( 2.5 ) Adults and Pediatrics (13 to 17 years of age) 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain ( 2.6 ) 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day Discontinuing Duloxetine delayed-release capsules: Gradually reduce dosage to avoid discontinuation symptoms ( 2.8 , 5.7 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Administer Duloxetine delayed-release capsules orally (with or without meals) and swallow whole. Do not chew or crush, and do not open the delayed-release capsule and sprinkle its contents on food or mix with liquids because these actions might affect the enteric coating. If a dose of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules is missed, take the missed dose as soon as it is remembered. If it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and take the next dose at the regular time. Do not take two doses of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules at the same time. 2.2 Dosage for Treatment of Major Depressive Disorder in Adults The recommended starting dosage in adults with MDD is 40 mg/day (given as 20 mg twice daily) to 60 mg/day (given either once daily or as 30 mg twice daily). For some patients, it may be desirable to start at 30 mg once daily for 1 week, to allow patients to adjust to Duloxetine delayed-release capsules before increasing to 60 mg once daily. While a 120 mg/day dose was shown to be effective, there is no evidence that doses greater than 60 mg/day confer any additional benefits. Periodically reassess to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dosage for such treatment. 2.3 Dosage for Treatment of Generalized Anxiety Disorder Recommended Dosage in Adults Less than 65 Years of Age For most adults less than 65 years of age with GAD, initiate Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 mg once daily. While a 120 mg once daily dosage was shown to be effective, there is no evidence that doses greater than 60 mg/day confer additional benefit. Nevertheless, if a decision is made to increase the dosage beyond 60 mg once daily, increase dosage in increments of 30 mg once daily. Periodically reassess to determine the continued need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dosage for such treatment. Recommended Dosage in Geriatric Patients In geriatric patients with GAD, initiate Duloxetine delayed-release capsules at a dosage of 30 mg once daily for 2 weeks before considering an increase to the target dose of 60 mg/day. Thereafter, patients may benefit from doses above 60 mg once daily. If a decision is made to increase the dose beyond 60 mg once daily, increase dose in increments of 30 mg once daily. The maximum dose studied was 120 mg per day. Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 7 to 17 Years of Age Initiate Duloxetine delayed-release capsules in pediatric patients 7 to 17 years of age with GAD at a dosage of 30 mg once daily for 2 weeks before considering an increase to 60 mg once daily. The recommended dosage range is 30 to 60 mg once daily. Some patients may benefit from dosages above 60 mg once daily. If a decision is made to increase the dose beyond 60 mg once daily, increase dosage in increments of 30 mg once daily. 2.4 Dosage for Treatment of Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathic Pain in Adults Administer 60 mg once daily in adults with diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain. There is no evidence that doses higher than 60 mg once daily confer additional significant benefit and the higher dosage is clearly less well tolerated. For patients for whom tolerability is a concern, a lower starting dose may be considered. Since diabetes is frequently complicated by renal disease, consider a lower starting dosage and gradual increase in dosage for patients with renal impairment [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) and Use in Specific Populations (8.10) ]. 2.5 Dosage for Treatment of Fibromyalgia Recommended Dosage in Adults The recommended Duloxetine delayed-release capsules dosage is 60 mg once daily in adults with fibromyalgia. Begin treatment at 30 mg once daily for 1 week, to allow patients to adjust to Duloxetine delayed-release capsules before increasing to 60 mg once daily. Some patients may respond to the starting dosage. There is no evidence that dosages greater than 60 mg/day confer additional benefit, even in patients who do not respond to a 60 mg/day dosage, and higher dosages were associated with a higher rate of adverse reactions. Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 13 to 17 Years of Age The recommended starting Duloxetine delayed-release capsules dosage in pediatric patients 13-17 years of age with fibromyalgia is 30 mg once daily. The dosage may be increased to 60 mg once daily based on response and tolerability. 2.6 Dosage for Treatment of Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain in Adults The recommended Duloxetine delayed-release capsules dosage is 60 mg once daily in adults with chronic musculoskeletal pain. Begin treatment at 30 mg once daily for one week, to allow patients to adjust to Duloxetine delayed-release capsules before increasing to 60 mg once daily. There is no evidence that higher dosages confer additional benefit, even in patients who do not respond to a 60 mg once daily dosage, and higher dosages are associated with a higher rate of adverse reactions [see Clinical Studies (14.6) ]. 2.7 Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment or Severe Renal Impairment Avoid use in patients with chronic liver disease or cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) and Use in Specific Populations (8.9) ]. Avoid use in patients with severe renal impairment, GFR <30 mL/minute [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) and Use in Specific Populations (8.10) ]. 2.8 Discontinuing Duloxetine delayed-release capsules Adverse reactions after discontinuation of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules, after abrupt or tapered discontinuation, include: dizziness, headache, nausea, diarrhea, paresthesia, irritability, vomiting, insomnia, anxiety, hyperhidrosis, and fatigue. A gradual reduction in dosage rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 2.9 Switching a Patient to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules. Conversely, at least 5 days should be allowed after stopping Duloxetine delayed-release capsules before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications (4) ]. 2.10 Use of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules with Other MAOIs such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start duloxetine in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see Contraindications (4) ]. In some cases, a patient already receiving Duloxetine delayed-release capsules therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, Duloxetine delayed-release capsules should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. The patient should be monitored for symptoms of serotonin syndrome for 5 days or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, whichever comes first. Therapy with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules is unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Swallow whole; do not crush, chew, or open capsule ( 2.1 ) Indication Starting Dose Target Dose Maximum Dose MDD ( 2.2 ) 40 mg/day to 60 mg/day Acute Treatment: 40 mg/day (20 mg twice daily) to 60 mg/day (once daily or as 30 mg twice daily); Maintenance Treatment: 60 mg/day 120 mg/day GAD ( 2.3 ) Adults Geriatric Pediatrics (7 to 17 years of age) 60 mg/day 30 mg/day 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day (once daily) 30 to 60 mg/day (once daily) 120 mg/day 120 mg/day 120 mg/day DPNP ( 2.4 ) 60 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day FM ( 2.5 ) Adults 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain ( 2.6 ) 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day Discontinuing duloxetine delayed-release capsules: Gradually reduce dosage to avoid discontinuation symptoms ( 2.8 , 5.7 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Administer duloxetine delayed-release capsules orally (with or without meals) and swallow whole. Since diabetes is frequently complicated by renal disease, consider a lower starting dosage and gradual increase in dosage for patients with renal impairment [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) and Use in Specific Populations (8.10) ] . Additional pediatric use information is approved for Eli Lilly and Company, Inc.’s CYMBALTA (duloxetine) delayed-release capsules. However, due to Eli Lilly and Company Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information. There is no evidence that higher dosages confer additional benefit, even in patients who do not respond to a 60 mg once daily dosage, and higher dosages are associated with a higher rate of adverse reactions [see Clinical Studies (14.6) ] . 2.7 Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment or Severe Renal Impairment Avoid use in patients with chronic liver disease or cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) and Use in Specific Populations (8.9) ] . Avoid use in patients with severe renal impairment, GFR <30 mL/minute [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) and Use in Specific Populations (8.10) ] . A gradual reduction in dosage rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . Conversely, at least 5 days should be allowed after stopping duloxetine delayed-release capsules before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications (4) ] . 2.10 Use of Duloxetine Delayed-Release Capsules with Other MAOIs such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start duloxetine delayed-release capsules in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see Contraindications (4) ] . Therapy with duloxetine delayed-release capsules may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Swallow whole; do not crush, chew, or open capsule (2.1) Indication Starting Dose Target Dose Maximum Dose MDD (2.2) 40 mg/day to 60 mg/day Acute Treatment: 40 mg/day (20 mg twice daily) to 60 mg/day (once daily or as 30 mg twice daily); Maintenance Treatment: 60 mg/day 120 mg/day GAD (2.3) Adults Geriatric Pediatrics (7 to 17 years of age) 60 mg/day 30 mg/day 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day (once daily) 30 to 60 mg/day (once daily) 120 mg/day 120 mg/day 120 mg/day DPNP (2.4) 60 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day FM (2.5) Adults 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain (2.6) 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day • Discontinuing duloxetine delayed-release capsules: Gradually reduce dosage to avoid discontinuation symptoms (2.8, 5.7) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Administer duloxetine delayed-release capsule orally (with or without meals) and swallow whole. If a dose of duloxetine delayed-release capsule is missed, take the missed dose as soon as it is remembered. Do not take two doses of duloxetine delayed-release capsule at the same time. Recommended Dosage in Geriatric Patients In geriatric patients with GAD, initiate duloxetine delayed-release capsules at a dosage 30 mg once daily for 2 weeks before considering an increase to the target dose of 60 mg/day. Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 7 to 17 Years of Age Initiate duloxetine delayed-release capsules in pediatric patients 7 to 17 years of age with GAD at a dosage of30 mg once daily for 2 weeks before considering an increase to 60 mg once daily. Since diabetes is frequently complicated by renal disease, consider a lower starting dosage and gradual increase in dosage for patients with renal impairment [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) and Use in Specific Populations (8.10)] . Begin treatment at 30 mg once daily for 1 week, to allow patients to adjust to duloxetine delayed-release capsulesbefore increasing to 60 mg once daily. There is no evidence that higher dosages confer additional benefit, even in patients who do not respond to a 60 mg once daily dose dosage, and higher dosages are associated with a higher rate of adverse reactions [see Clinical Studies (14.6)] . 2.7 Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment or Severe Renal impairment Avoid use in patients with chronic liver disease or cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) and Use in Specific Populations (8.9)] . Avoid use in patients with severe renal impairment, GFR <30 mL/minute [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) and Use in Specific Populations (8.10)] . A gradual reduction in the dosage rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] . 2.9 Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with duloxetine delayed-release capsules. Conversely, at least 5 days should be allowed after stopping duloxetine delayed-release capsules before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications (4)] . 2.10 Use of Duloxetine Delayed-Release Capsules with Other MAOIs such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start duloxetine delayed-release capsule in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see Contraindications (4)]. In some cases, a patient already receiving duloxetine delayed-release capsule therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, duloxetine delayed-release capsule should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. Therapy with duloxetine delayed-release capsules may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with duloxetine delayed-release capsule is unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] . Swallow whole; do not crush, or chew, or open capsule ( 2.1 ) Indication Starting Dose Target Dose Maximum Dose MDD ( 2.2 ) 40 mg/day to 60 mg/day Acute Treatment: 40 mg/day (20 mg twice daily) to 60 mg/day (once daily or as 30 mg twice daily); Maintenance Treatment: 60 mg/day 120 mg/day GAD ( 2.3 ) Adults 60 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 120 mg/day Geriatric 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 120 mg/day Pediatrics (7 years to 17 years of age) 30 mg/day 30 to 60 mg/day (once daily) 120 mg/day DPNP ( 2.4 ) 60 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day FM ( 2.5 ) Adults and Pediatrics (13 years to 17 years of age) 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain ( 2.6 ) 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day Discontinuing duloxetine delayed-release capsules: Gradually reduce dosage to avoid discontinuation symptoms ( 2.8 , 5.7 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Administer duloxetine delayed-release capsules orally (with or without meals) and swallow whole. Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 7 Years to 17 Years of Age Initiate duloxetine delayed-release capsules in pediatric patients 7 years to 17 years of age with GAD at a dosage of 30 mg once daily for 2 weeks before considering an increase to 60 mg once daily. The recommended dosages range is 30 mg to 60 mg once daily. There is no evidence that doses higher than 60 mg once daily confer additional significant benefit and the higher dosage is clearly less well tolerated . Since diabetes is frequently complicated by renal disease, consider a lower starting dosage and gradual increase in dosage for patients with renal impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.10 )]. 2.5 Dosage for Treatment of Fibromyalgia Recommended Dosage in Adults The recommended duloxetine delayed-release capsule dosage is 60 mg once daily in adults with fibromyalgia. Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 13 Years to 17 Years of Age The recommended starting duloxetine dosage in pediatric patients 13 years to 17 years of age with fibromyalgia is 30 mg once daily. There is no evidence that higher dosages confer additional benefit, even in patients who do not respond to a 60 mg once daily dosage, and higher dosages are associated with a higher rate of adverse reactions [see Clinical Studies ( 14.6 )]. 2.7 Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment or Severe Renal Impairment Avoid use in patients with chronic liver disease or cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.9 )]. Avoid use in patients with severe renal impairment, GFR less than 30 mL/minute [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.10 )] . A gradual reduction in dosage rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )]. Conversely, at least 5 days should be allowed after stopping duloxetine delayed-release capsules before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. Therapy with duloxetine delayed-release capsules may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. The recommended dosage range is 30 mg to 60 mg once daily. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Take duloxetine delayed-release capsules once daily, with or without food. Swallow whole; do not crush, chew, or open capsule ( 2.1 ) Indication Starting Dose Target Dose Maximum Dose MDD (2.2) 40 mg/day to 60 mg/day Acute Treatment: 40 mg/day (20 mg twice daily) to 60 mg/day (once daily or as 30 mg twice daily); Maintenance Treatment: 60 mg/day 120 mg/day GAD (2.3) Adults Geriatric Pediatrics (7 to 17 years of age) 60 mg/day 30 mg/day 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day (once daily) 30 to 60 mg/day (once daily) 120 mg/day 120 mg/day 120 mg/day DPNP (2.4) 60 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day FM (2.5) Adults Pediatrics (13 to 17 years of age) 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain (2.6) 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day • Discontinuing duloxetine delayed-release capsules: Gradually reduce dosage to avoid discontinuation symptoms ( 2.8 , 5.7 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Administer duloxetine delayed-release capsules orally (with or without meals) and swallow whole. For some patients, it may be desirable to start at 30 mg once daily for 1 week, to allow patients to adjust to duloxetine before increasing to 60 mg once daily. Since diabetes is frequently complicated by renal disease, consider a lower starting dosage and gradual increase in dosage for patients with renal impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.10 ) .] 2.5 Dosage for Treatment of Fibromyalgia Recommended Dosage in Adults The recommended duloxetine delayed-release capsules dosage is 60 mg once daily in adults with fibromyalgia. 2.7 Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment or Severe Renal Impairment Avoid use in patients with chronic liver disease or cirrhosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.9 ) ]. Avoid use in patients with severe renal impairment, GFR <30 mL/minute [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.10 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Take duloxetine delayed-release capsules once daily, with or without food. Swallow whole; do not crush, chew, or open capsule. ( 2.1 ) Indication Starting Dose Target Dose Maximum Dose MDD ( 2.2 ) 40 mg/day to 60 mg/day Acute Treatment: 40 mg/day (20 mg twice daily) to 60 mg/day (once daily or as 30 mg twice daily); Maintenance Treatment: 60 mg/day 120 mg/day GAD ( 2.3 ) Adults Geriatric Pediatrics (7 to 17 years of age) 60 mg/day 30 mg/day 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day (once daily) 30 to 60 mg/day (once daily) 120 mg/day 120 mg/day 120 mg/day DPNP ( 2.4 ) 60 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day FM ( 2.5 ) Adults and Pediatrics (13 to 17 years of age) 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain ( 2.6 ) 30 mg/day 60 mg/day (once daily) 60 mg/day Discontinuing duloxetine delayed-release capsules: Gradually reduce dosage to avoid discontinuation symptoms ( 2.8 , 5.7 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Administer duloxetine delayed-release capsules orally (with or without meals) and swallow whole. For some patients, it may be desirable to start at 30 mg once daily for 1 week, to allow patients to adjust to duloxetine delayed- release capsules before increasing to 60 mg once daily. Since diabetes is frequently complicated by renal disease, consider a lower starting dosage and gradual increase in dosage for patients with renal impairment [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.10 )] . Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 13 to 17 Years of Age The recommended starting duloxetine delayed-release capsule dosage in pediatric patients 13 to17 years of age with fibromyalgia is 30 mg once daily. Avoid use in patients with severe renal impairment, GFR <30 mL/minute [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.10 )]. A gradual reduction in dosage rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] .
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules or within 5 days of stopping treatment with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.8) and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Starting Duloxetine delayed-release capsules in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration (2.9) and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Concomitant use of an MAOI antidepressant with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules is contraindicated Use of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules within 14 days of stopping an MAOI antidepressant is contraindicated In linezolid- or intravenous methylene blue-treated patients, initiation of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules is contraindicated ( 4 ) The use of duloxetine delayed-release capsules within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.8) and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Starting duloxetine delayed-release capsules in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration (2.9) and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Concomitant use of an MAOI antidepressant with duloxetine delayed-release capsules is contraindicated Use of duloxetine delayed-release capsules within 14 days of stopping an MAOI antidepressant is contraindicated In linezolid- or intravenous methylene blue-treated patients, initiation of duloxetine delayed-release capsules are contraindicated ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with duloxetine delayed-release capsule or within 5 days of stopping treatment with duloxetine delayed-release capsule is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of duloxetine delayed-release capsules within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.8) and Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. Starting duloxetine delayed-release capsule in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration (2.9) and Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. Concomitant use of an MAOI antidepressant with duloxetine delayed-release capsule is contraindicated Use of duloxetine delayed-release capsule within 14 days of stopping an MAOI antidepressant is contraindicated In linezolid-or intravenous methylene blue-treated patients, initiation of duloxetine delayed-release capsule is contraindicated (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with duloxetine or within 5 days of stopping treatment with duloxetine is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of duloxetine within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.8 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. Starting duloxetine in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.9 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. Concomitant use of an MAOI antidepressant with duloxetine is contraindicated Use of duloxetine within 14 days of stopping an MAOI antidepressant is contraindicated In linezolid-or intravenous methylene blue-treated patients, initiation of duloxetine is contraindicated ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with duloxetine delayed-release capsules or within 5 days of stopping treatment with duloxetine delayed-release capsules are contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of duloxetine delayed-release capsules within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.8 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. Starting duloxetine delayed-release capsules in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.9 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. • Concomitant use of an MAOI antidepressant with duloxetine delayed-release capsules is contraindicated • Use of duloxetine delayed-release capsules within 14 days of stopping an MAOI antidepressant is contraindicated. • In linezolid-or intravenous methylene blue-treated patients, initiation of duloxetine delayed-release capsules is contraindicated ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Concomitant use of an MAOI antidepressant with duloxetine is contraindicated Use of duloxetine within 14 days of stopping an MAOI antidepressant is contraindicated In linezolid or intravenous methylene blue-treated patients, initiation of duloxetine is contraindicated ( 4 ) The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with duloxetine or within 5 days of stopping treatment with duloxetine is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Both CYP1A2 and CYP2D6 are responsible for duloxetine metabolism. Potent inhibitors of CYP1A2 should be avoided ( 7.1 ) Potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 may increase Duloxetine delayed-release capsules concentrations ( 7.2 ) Duloxetine delayed-release capsules is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 ( 7.9 ) 7.1 Inhibitors of CYP1A2 When duloxetine 60 mg was co-administered with fluvoxamine 100 mg, a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor, to male subjects (n=14) duloxetine AUC was increased approximately 6-fold, the C max was increased about 2.5-fold, and duloxetine t 1/2 was increased approximately 3-fold. Other drugs that inhibit CYP1A2 metabolism include cimetidine and quinolone antimicrobials such as ciprofloxacin and enoxacin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. 7.2 Inhibitors of CYP2D6 Concomitant use of duloxetine (40 mg once daily) with paroxetine (20 mg once daily) increased the concentration of duloxetine AUC by about 60%, and greater degrees of inhibition are expected with higher doses of paroxetine. Similar effects would be expected with other potent CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., fluoxetine, quinidine) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. 7.3 Dual Inhibition of CYP1A2 and CYP2D6 Concomitant administration of duloxetine 40 mg twice daily with fluvoxamine 100 mg, a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor, to CYP2D6 poor metabolizer subjects (n=14) resulted in a 6-fold increase in duloxetine AUC and C max. 7.4 Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., NSAIDs, Aspirin, and Warfarin) Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies of the case-control and cohort design that have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding have also shown that concurrent use of an NSAID or aspirin may potentiate this risk of bleeding. Altered anticoagulant effects, including increased bleeding, have been reported when SSRIs or SNRIs are co-administered with warfarin. Concomitant administration of warfarin (2-9 mg once daily) under steady state conditions with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 or 120 mg once daily for up to 14 days in healthy subjects (n=15) did not significantly change INR from baseline (mean INR changes ranged from 0.05 to +0.07). The total warfarin (protein bound plus free drug) pharmacokinetics (AUC τ,ss , C max,ss or t max,ss ) for both R- and S-warfarin were not altered by duloxetine. Because of the potential effect of duloxetine on platelets, patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. 7.5 Lorazepam Under steady-state conditions for duloxetine (60 mg Q 12 hours) and lorazepam (2 mg Q 12 hours), the pharmacokinetics of duloxetine were not affected by co-administration. 7.6 Temazepam Under steady-state conditions for duloxetine (20 mg qhs) and temazepam (30 mg qhs), the pharmacokinetics of duloxetine were not affected by co-administration. 7.7 Drugs that Affect Gastric Acidity Duloxetine delayed-release capsules have an enteric coating that resists dissolution until reaching a segment of the gastrointestinal tract where the pH exceeds 5.5. In extremely acidic conditions, Duloxetine delayed-release capsules, unprotected by the enteric coating, may undergo hydrolysis to form naphthol. Caution is advised in using Duloxetine delayed-release capsules in patients with conditions that may slow gastric emptying (e.g., some diabetics). Drugs that raise the gastrointestinal pH may lead to an earlier release of duloxetine. However, co- administration of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules with aluminum- and magnesium-containing antacids (51 mEq) or Duloxetine delayed-release capsules with famotidine, had no significant effect on the rate or extent of duloxetine absorption after administration of a 40 mg oral dose. It is unknown whether the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors affects duloxetine absorption [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) ]. 7.8 Drugs Metabolized by CYP1A2 In vitro drug interaction studies demonstrate that duloxetine does not induce CYP1A2 activity. Therefore, an increase in the metabolism of CYP1A2 substrates (e.g., theophylline, caffeine) resulting from induction is not anticipated, although clinical studies of induction have not been performed. Duloxetine is an inhibitor of the CYP1A2 isoform in in vitro studies, and in two clinical studies the average (90% confidence interval) increase in theophylline AUC was 7% (1%-15%) and 20% (13%-27%) when co-administered with duloxetine (60 mg twice daily). 7.9 Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Duloxetine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. When duloxetine was administered (at a dose of 60 mg twice daily) in conjunction with a single 50 mg dose of desipramine, a CYP2D6 substrate, the AUC of desipramine increased 3-fold [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. 7.10 Drugs Metabolized by CYP2C9 Results of in vitro studies demonstrate that duloxetine does not inhibit activity. In a clinical study, the pharmacokinetics of S-warfarin, a CYP2C9 substrate, were not significantly affected by duloxetine [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ]. 7.11 Drugs Metabolized by CYP3A Results of in vitro studies demonstrate that duloxetine does not inhibit or induce CYP3A activity. Therefore, an increase or decrease in the metabolism of CYP3A substrates (e.g., oral contraceptives and other steroidal agents) resulting from induction or inhibition is not anticipated, although clinical studies have not been performed. 7.12 Drugs Metabolized by CYP2C19 Results of in vitro studies demonstrate that duloxetine does not inhibit CYP2C19 activity at therapeutic concentrations. Inhibition of the metabolism of CYP2C19 substrates is therefore not anticipated, although clinical studies have not been performed. 7.13 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) [See Dosage and Administration (2.9 , 2.10) , Contraindications (4) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. 7.14 Other Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of serotonergic drugs (including other SNRIs, SSRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan, and St. John's Wort) with Duloxetine delayed-release capsules increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. 7.15 Alcohol When Duloxetine delayed-release capsules and ethanol were administered several hours apart so that peak concentrations of each would coincide, Duloxetine delayed-release capsules did not increase the impairment of mental and motor skills caused by alcohol. In the Duloxetine delayed-release capsules clinical trials database, three Duloxetine delayed-release capsules-treated patients had liver injury as manifested by ALT and total bilirubin elevations, with evidence of obstruction. Substantial intercurrent ethanol use was present in each of these cases, and this may have contributed to the abnormalities seen [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.12) ]. 7.16 CNS Drugs [See Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. 7.17 Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Protein Because duloxetine is highly bound to plasma protein, administration of Duloxetine delayed-release capsules to a patient taking another drug that is highly protein bound may cause increased free concentrations of the other drug, potentially resulting in adverse reactions. However, co-administration of duloxetine (60 or 120 mg) with warfarin (2-9 mg), a highly protein-bound drug, did not result in significant changes in INR and in the pharmacokinetics of either total S-or total R-warfarin (protein bound plus free drug) [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ]. Potent inhibitors of CYP1A2 should be avoided (7.1) Potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 may increase duloxetine delayed-release capsules concentrations (7.2) Duloxetine delayed-release capsules are a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 (7.9) 7.1 Inhibitors of CYP1A2 When duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 mg was co-administered with fluvoxamine 100 mg, a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor, to male subjects (n=14) duloxetine AUC was increased approximately 6-fold, the C max was increased about 2.5-fold, and duloxetine t 1/2 was increased approximately 3-fold. Other drugs that inhibit CYP1A2 metabolism include cimetidine and quinolone antimicrobials such as ciprofloxacin and enoxacin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . 7.2 Inhibitors of CYP2D6 Concomitant use of duloxetine delayed-release capsules (40 mg once daily) with paroxetine (20 mg once daily) increased the concentration of duloxetine AUC by about 60%, and greater degrees of inhibition are expected with higher doses of paroxetine. Similar effects would be expected with other potent CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., fluoxetine, quinidine) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . 7.3 Dual Inhibition of CYP1A2 and CYP2D6 Concomitant administration of duloxetine delayed-release capsules 40 mg twice daily with fluvoxamine 100 mg, a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor, to CYP2D6 poor metabolizer subjects (n=14) resulted in a 6-fold increase in duloxetine AUC and C max . Concomitant administration of warfarin (2 to 9 mg once daily) under steady state conditions with duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 or 120 mg once daily for up to 14 days in healthy subjects (n=15) did not significantly change INR from baseline (mean INR changes ranged from 0.05 to +0.07). Because of the potential effect of duloxetine on platelets, patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when duloxetine delayed-release capsules are initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . 7.5 Lorazepam Under steady-state conditions for duloxetine delayed-release capsules (60 mg Q 12 hours) and lorazepam (2 mg Q 12 hours), the pharmacokinetics of duloxetine were not affected by co-administration. 7.6 Temazepam Under steady-state conditions for duloxetine delayed-release capsules (20 mg qhs) and temazepam (30 mg qhs), the pharmacokinetics of duloxetine were not affected by co-administration. However, co-administration of duloxetine delayed-release capsules with aluminum- and magnesium-containing antacids (51 mEq) or duloxetine delayed-release capsules with famotidine, had no significant effect on the rate or extent of duloxetine absorption after administration of a 40 mg oral dose. It is unknown whether the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors affects duloxetine absorption [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) ] . Duloxetine is an inhibitor of the CYP1A2 isoform in in vitro studies, and in two clinical studies the average (90% confidence interval) increase in theophylline AUC was 7% (1% to 15%) and 20% (13% to 27%) when co-administered with duloxetine delayed-release capsules (60 mg twice daily). When duloxetine delayed-release capsules was administered (at a dose of 60 mg twice daily) in conjunction with a single 50 mg dose of desipramine, a CYP2D6 substrate, the AUC of desipramine increased 3-fold [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . In a clinical study, the pharmacokinetics of S-warfarin, a CYP2C9 substrate, were not significantly affected by duloxetine [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ] . 7.13 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) [See Dosage and Administration (2.9 , 2.10) , Contraindications (4) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . 7.14 Serotonergic Drugs [See Dosage and Administration (2.9 , 2.10) , Contraindications (4) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Substantial intercurrent ethanol use was present in each of these cases, and this may have contributed to the abnormalities seen [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.12) ] . However, co-administration of duloxetine delayed-release capsules (60 or 120 mg) with warfarin (2 to 9 mg), a highly protein-bound drug, did not result in significant changes in INR and in the pharmacokinetics of either total S-or total R-warfarin (protein bound plus free drug) [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ] . Potent inhibitors of CYP1A2 should be avoided (7.1). Potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 may increase duloxetine concentrations (7.2). Duloxetine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 (7.9). 7.1 Inhibitors of CYP1A2 When duloxetine delayed-release capsules 60 mg was co-administered with fluvoxamine 100 mg, a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor, to male subjects (n=14) duloxetine AUC was increased approximately 6-fold, the C max was increased about 2.5-fold, and duloxetine t 1/2 was increased approximately 3-fold. Other drugs that inhibit CYP1A2 metabolism include cimetidine and quinolone antimicrobials such as ciprofloxacin and enoxacin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] . Similar effects would be expected with other potent CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., fluoxetine, quinidine) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] . Because of the potential effect of duloxetine on platelets, patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when duloxetine delayed-release capsule is initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] . It is unknown whether the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors affects duloxetine absorption [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] . When duloxetine delayed-release capsules was administered (at a dose of 60 mg twice daily) in conjunction with a single 50 mg dose of desipramine, a CYP2D6 substrate, the AUC of desipramine increased 3-fold [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] . In a clinical study, the pharmacokinetics of S-warfarin, a CYP2C9 substrate, were not significantly affected by duloxetine [see Drug Interactions (7.4)] . 7.13 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) [See Dosage and Administration (2.9, 2.10), Contraindications (4), and Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. 7.14 Serotonergic Drugs [See Dosage and Administration (2.9,2.10), Contraindications (4), and Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. Substantial intercurrent ethanol use was present in each of these cases, and this may have contributed to the abnormalities seen [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 and 5.12)] . 7.16 CNS Drugs [See Warnings and Precautions (5.12)]. However, co-administration of duloxetine delayed-release capsules (60 or 120 mg) with warfarin (2 to 9 mg), a highly protein-bound drug, did not result in significant changes in INR and in the pharmacokinetics of either total S-or total R-warfarin (protein bound plus free drug) [see Drug Interactions (7.4)] . Potent inhibitors of CYP1A2 should be avoided ( 7.1 ). Potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 may increase duloxetine concentrations ( 7.2 ). Duloxetine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 ( 7.9 ). 7.1 Inhibitors of CYP1A2 When duloxetine 60 mg was co-administered with fluvoxamine 100 mg, a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor, to male subjects (n=14) duloxetine AUC was increased approximately 6-fold, the C max was increased about 2.5-fold, and duloxetine t 1/2 was increased approximately 3-fold. Other drugs that inhibit CYP1A2 metabolism include cimetidine and quinolone antimicrobials such as ciprofloxacin and enoxacin [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] . Similar effects would be expected with other potent CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., fluoxetine, quinidine) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] . 7.3 Dual Inhibition of CYP1A2 and CYP2D6 Concomitant administration of duloxetine 40 mg twice daily with fluvoxamine 100 mg, a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor, to CYP2D6 poor metabolizer subjects (n=14) resulted in a 6-fold increase in duloxetine AUC and C max . Concomitant administration of warfarin (2 mg to 9 mg once daily) under steady state conditions with duloxetine 60 mg or 120 mg once daily for up to 14 days in healthy subjects (n=15) did not significantly change INR from baseline (mean INR changes ranged from 0.05 to +0.07). The total warfarin (protein bound plus free drug) pharmacokinetics (AUC T,ss, C max,ss or t max,ss ) for both R- and S-warfarin were not altered by duloxetine. Because of the potential effect of duloxetine on platelets, patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when duloxetine is initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . 7.7 Drugs that Affect Gastric Acidity Duloxetine has an enteric coating that resists dissolution until reaching a segment of the gastrointestinal tract where the pH exceeds 5.5. In extremely acidic conditions, duloxetine, unprotected by the enteric coating, may undergo hydrolysis to form naphthol. Caution is advised in using duloxetine in patients with conditions that may slow gastric emptying (e.g., some diabetics). However, co-administration of duloxetine with aluminum- and magnesium-containing antacids (51 mEq) or duloxetine with famotidine, had no significant effect on the rate or extent of duloxetine absorption after administration of a 40 mg oral dose. It is unknown whether the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors affects duloxetine absorption [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 )] . Duloxetine is an inhibitor of the CYP1A2 isoform in in vitro studies, and in two clinical studies the average (90% confidence interval) increase in theophylline AUC was 7% (1% to 15%) and 20% (13% to 27%) when co-administered with duloxetine (60 mg twice daily). When duloxetine was administered (at a dose of 60 mg twice daily) in conjunction with a single 50 mg dose of desipramine, a CYP2D6 substrate, the AUC of desipramine increased 3-fold [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] . In a clinical study, the pharmacokinetics of S-warfarin, a CYP2C9 substrate, were not significantly affected by duloxetine [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 )] . 7.13 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) [See Dosage and Administration ( 2.9 , 2.10 ), Contraindications ( 4 ), and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . John's Wort) with duloxetine increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of duloxetine and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. 7.15 Alcohol When duloxetine and ethanol were administered several hours apart so that peak concentrations of each would coincide, duloxetine did not increase the impairment of mental and motor skills caused by alcohol. In the duloxetine clinical trials database, three duloxetine-treated patients had liver injury as manifested by ALT and total bilirubin elevations, with evidence of obstruction. Substantial intercurrent ethanol use was present in each of these cases, and this may have contributed to the abnormalities seen [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.12 )] . 7.16 CNS Drugs [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] . 7.17 Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Protein Because duloxetine is highly bound to plasma protein, administration of duloxetine to a patient taking another drug that is highly protein bound may cause increased free concentrations of the other drug, potentially resulting in adverse reactions. However, co-administration of duloxetine (60 mg or 120 mg) with warfarin (2 mg to 9 mg), a highly protein-bound drug, did not result in significant changes in INR and in the pharmacokinetics of either total S-or total R-warfarin (protein bound plus free drug) [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 )] . 7.1 Inhibitors of CYP1A2 When duloxetine 60 mg was co-administered with fluvoxamine 100 mg, a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor, to male subjects (n=14) duloxetine AUC was increased approximately 6-fold, the C max was increased about 2.5-fold, and duloxetine t ½ was increased approximately 3-fold. John’s Wort) with duloxetine increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. • Potent inhibitors of CYP1A2 should be avoided ( 7.1 ). • Potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 may increase duloxetine concentrations ( 7.2 ). • Duloxetine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 ( 7.9 ). 7.1 Inhibitors of CYP1A2 When duloxetine 60 mg was co-administered with fluvoxamine 100 mg, a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor, to male subjects (n=14) duloxetine AUC was increased approximately 6-fold, the Cmax was increased about 2.5-fold, and duloxetine t1/2 was increased approximately 3-fold. Other drugs that inhibit CYP1A2 metabolism include cimetidine and quinolone antimicrobials such as ciprofloxacin and enoxacin [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )]. Similar effects would be expected with other potent CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., fluoxetine, quinidine) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )]. Concomitant administration of warfarin (2-9 mg once daily) under steady state conditions with duloxetine 60 or 120 mg once daily for up to 14 days in healthy subjects (n=15) did not significantly change INR from baseline (mean INR changes ranged from 0.05 to +0.07). The total warfarin (protein bound plus free drug) pharmacokinetics (AUC τ,ss , C max,ss or t max , ss ) for both R- and S-warfarin were not altered by duloxetine. Because of the potential effect of duloxetine on platelets, patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when duloxetine is initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )]. It is unknown whether the concomitant administration of proton pump inhibitors affects duloxetine absorption [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 )]. When duloxetine was administered (at a dose of 60 mg twice daily) in conjunction with a single 50 mg dose of desipramine, a CYP2D6 substrate, the AUC of desipramine increased 3-fold [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )]. In a clinical study, the pharmacokinetics of S-warfarin, a CYP2C9 substrate, were not significantly affected by duloxetine [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 )]. 7.13 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) [See Dosage and Administration ( 2.9 , 2.10 ), Contraindications ( 4 ), and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of duloxetine delayed-release capsules and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) ]. In the duloxetine delayed-release capsules clinical trials database, three duloxetine-treated patients had liver injury as manifested by ALT and total bilirubin elevations, with evidence of obstruction. Substantial intercurrent ethanol use was present in each of these cases, and this may have contributed to the abnormalities seen [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.12 )]. 7.16 CNS Drugs [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )]. However, co-administration of duloxetine (60 or 120 mg) with warfarin (2-9 mg), a highly protein-bound drug, did not result in significant changes in INR and in the pharmacokinetics of either total S-or total R-warfarin (protein bound plus free drug) [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Potent inhibitors of CYP1A2 should be avoided ( 7.1 ) Potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 may increase duloxetine concentrations ( 7.2 ) Duloxetine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6 ( 7.9 ) Both CYP1A2 and CYP2D6 are responsible for duloxetine metabolism. Concomitant administration of warfarin (2 to 9 mg once daily) under steady state conditions with duloxetine 60 or 120 mg once daily for up to 14 days in healthy subjects (n=15) did not significantly change INR from baseline (mean INR changes ranged from 0.05 to +0.07). 7.13 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) [See Dosage and Administration ( 2.8 , 2.9 ), Contraindications (4), and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider is continuation of duloxetine and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . In the duloxetine clinical trials database, three duloxetine -treated patients had liver injury as manifested by ALT and total bilirubin elevations, with evidence of obstruction. However, co-administration of duloxetine (60 or 120 mg) with warfarin (2 to 9 mg), a highly protein-bound drug, did not result in significant changes in INR and in the pharmacokinetics of either total S-or total R-warfarin (protein bound plus free drug) [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 )] . If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of duloxetine and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] .

=== FLUOCINONIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluocinonide Ointment is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluocinonide cream USP, 0.1% is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid responsive dermatoses in patients 12 years of age or older. ( 1 ) Limitation of Use: Treatment beyond 2 consecutive weeks is not recommended and the total dosage should not exceed 60 g per week because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. ( 1 ) Avoid use on the face, groin, or axillae. ( 1.2 ) Avoid use in perioral dermatitis or rosacea. 1.1 Indication Fluocinonide cream USP, 0.1% is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid responsive dermatoses in patients 12 years of age or older [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. 1.2 Limitation of Use Treatment beyond 2 consecutive weeks is not recommended and the total dosage should not exceed 60 g per week because the safety of fluocinonide cream USP, 0.1% for longer than 2 weeks has not been established and because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Therapy should be discontinued when control of the disease is achieved. If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks, reassessment of the diagnosis may be necessary. Do not use more than half of the 120 g tube per week. Fluocinonide cream USP, 0.1% should not be used in the treatment of rosacea or perioral dermatitis, and should not be used on the face, groin, or axillae. 1.1 Indication Fluocinonide cream USP, 0.1% is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid responsive dermatoses in patients 12 years of age or older [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ) ]. 1.2 Limitation of Use Treatment beyond 2 consecutive weeks is not recommended and the total dosage should not exceed 60 g per week because the safety of fluocinonide cream for longer than 2 weeks has not been established and because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Fluocinonide cream should not be used in the treatment of rosacea or perioral dermatitis, and should not be used on the face, groin, or axillae. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluocinonide topical solution USP, 0.05% is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluocinonide Cream USP, 0.05% is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. INDICATIONS & USAGE Fluocinonide Topical Solution USP, 0.05% is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluocinonide topical solution, 0.05% is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Fluocinonide Ointment is generally applied to the affected area as a thin film from two to four times daily depending on the severity of the condition. Occlusive dressings may be used for the management of psoriasis or recalcitrant conditions. If an infection develops, the use of the occlusive dressings should be discontinued and appropriate antimicrobial therapy instituted. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For topical use only. Fluocinonide cream USP, 0.1% is not for ophthalmic, oral, or intravaginal use. For psoriasis, apply a thin layer of fluocinonide cream USP, 0.1% once or twice daily to the affected skin areas as directed by a physician. Twice daily application for the treatment of psoriasis has been shown to be more effective in achieving treatment success during 2 weeks of treatment. For atopic dermatitis, apply a thin layer of fluocinonide cream USP, 0.1% once daily to the affected skin areas as directed by a physician. Once daily application for the treatment of atopic dermatitis has been shown to be as effective as twice daily treatment in achieving treatment success during 2 weeks of treatment [ see Clinical Studies (14) ] . For corticosteroid responsive dermatoses, other than psoriasis or atopic dermatitis, apply a thin layer of fluocinonide cream USP, 0.1% once or twice daily to the affected areas as directed by a physician. For topical use only. ( 2 ) Psoriasis: apply a thin layer once or twice daily to the affected skin areas. ( 2 ) Atopic Dermatitis: apply a thin layer once daily to the affected skin areas. ( 2 ) Corticosteroid Responsive Dermatoses, other than psoriasis or atopic dermatitis: apply a thin layer once or twice daily to the affected areas. ( 2 ) Fluocinonide cream is not for ophthalmic, oral, or intravaginal use. (2) Psoriasis: apply a thin layer once or twice daily to the affected skin areas. ( 2 ) For topical use only. For psoriasis, apply a thin layer of fluocinonide cream once or twice daily to the affected skin areas as directed by a physician. For atopic dermatitis, apply a thin layer of fluocinonide cream once daily to the affected skin areas as directed by a physician. Once daily application for the treatment of atopic dermatitis has been shown to be as effective as twice daily treatment in achieving treatment success during 2 weeks of treatment [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] . For corticosteroid responsive dermatoses, other than psoriasis or atopic dermatitis, apply a thin layer of fluocinonide cream once or twice daily to the affected areas as directed by a physician. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Fluocinonide topical solution USP, 0.05% is generally applied to the affected area as a thin film from two to four times daily depending on the severity of the condition. If an infection develops, the use of occlusive dressings should be discontinued and appropriate antimicrobial therapy instituted. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Fluocinonide Cream USP, 0.05% is generally applied to the affected area as a thin film from two to four times daily depending on the severity of the condition. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Fluocinonide Topical Solution USP, 0.05% is generally applied to the affected area as a thin film from two to four times daily depending on the severity of the condition. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Fluocinonide topical solution, 0.05% is generally applied to the affected area as a thin film from two to four times daily depending on the severity of the condition.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None. None ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None ( 4 ) None. CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparations.

=== SOTALOL HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sotalol hydrochloride tablets are an antiarrhythmic indicated for: the treatment of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias ( 1.1 ) the maintenance of normal sinus rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter (AFIB/AFL) ( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use Sotalol hydrochloride tablets have not been shown to enhance survival in patients with life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias ( 1.1 ) Avoid use in patients with minimally symptomatic or easily reversible AFIB/AFL ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Life-Threatening Ventricular Arrhythmias Sotalol hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of documented, life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias, such as sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT) . Limitation of Use Sotalol hydrochloride tablets have not been shown to enhance survival in patients with life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias. 1.2 Delay in Recurrence of Atrial Fibrillation/Atrial Flutter (AFIB/AFL) Sotalol hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the maintenance of normal sinus rhythm (delay in time to recurrence of AFIB/AFL) in patients with highly symptomatic AFIB/AFL who are currently in sinus rhythm. Limitation of Use: Because sotalol hydrochloride tablets can cause life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias, reserve its use for patients in whom AFIB/AFL is highly symptomatic. Patients with paroxysmal AFIB that is easily reversed (by Valsalva maneuver, for example) should usually not be given sotalol hydrochloride tablets. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sotalol hydrochloride tablets are an antiarrhythmic indicated for: • the treatment of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias ( 1.1 ) • the maintenance of normal sinus rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter (AFIB/AFL) ( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use • Sotalol hydrochloride tablets have not been shown to enhance survival in patients with life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias ( 1.1 ) • Avoid use in patients with minimally symptomatic or easily reversible AFIB/AFL ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Life-Threatening Ventricular Arrhythmias Sotalol hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of documented, life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias, such as sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT) . 1. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sotalol hydrochloride tablets are an antiarrhythmic indicated for: the treatment of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias ( 1.1 ) the maintenance of normal sinus rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter (AFIB/AFL) ( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use Sotalol hydrochloride tablets have not been shown to enhance survival in patients with life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias ( 1.1 ) Avoid use in patients with minimally symptomatic or easily reversible AFIB/AFL ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Life-Threatening Ventricular Arrhythmias Sotalol hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of documented, life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias, such as sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT). Limitation of Use: Sotalol hydrochloride tablets have not been shown to enhance survival in patients with life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sotalol hydrochloride/Sotalol hydrochloride AF tablets are an antiarrhythmic indicated for: the treatment of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias ( 1.1 ) the maintenance of normal sinus rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter (AFIB/AFL) ( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use Sotalol hydrochloride has not been shown to enhance survival in patients with life threatening ventricular arrhythmias (1.1) Avoid use in patients with minimally symptomatic or easily reversible AFIB/AFL ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Life-Threatening Ventricular Arrhythmias Sotalol hydrochloride/Sotalol hydrochloride AF tablets are indicated for the treatment of documented, life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias, such as sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT). Limitation of Use: Sotalol hydrochloride/Sotalol hydrochloride AF has not been shown to enhance survival in patients with life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias. 1.2 Delay in Recurrence of Atrial Fibrillation/Atrial Flutter (AFIB/AFL) Sotalol hydrochloride/Sotalol hydrochloride AF tablets are indicated for the maintenance of normal sinus rhythm (delay in time to recurrence of AFIB/AFL) in patients with highly symptomatic AFIB/AFL who are currently in sinus rhythm. Limitation of Use: Because sotalol hydrochloride/sotalol hydrochloride AF tablets can cause life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias, reserve its use for patients in whom AFIB/AFL is highly symptomatic. Patients with paroxysmal AFIB that is easily reversed (by Valsalva maneuver, for example) should usually not be given sotalol hydrochloride/sotalol hydrochloride AF tablets. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE SOTYLIZE is an antiarrhythmic indicated for: The treatment of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias ( 1.1 ) The maintenance of normal sinus rhythm in patients with highly symptomatic atrial fibrillation/flutter (AFIB/AFL) ( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use SOTYLIZE has not been shown to enhance survival in patients with life threatening ventricular arrhythmias ( 1.1 ) Avoid use in patients with minimally symptomatic or easily reversible AFIB/AFL ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Life-Threatening Ventricular Arrhythmia SOTYLIZE is indicated for the treatment of documented, life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias, such as sustained ventricular tachycardia. Limitation of Use SOTYLIZE has not been shown to enhance survival in patients with life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias. 1.2 Delay in Recurrence of Atrial Fibrillation/Atrial Flutter (AFIB/AFL) SOTYLIZE is indicated for the maintenance of normal sinus rhythm [delay in time to recurrence of atrial fibrillation/atrial flutter (AFIB/AFL)] in patients with highly symptomatic AFIB/AFL who are currently in sinus rhythm. Limitation of Use Because sotalol can cause life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias, reserve its use for patients in whom AFIB/AFL is highly symptomatic. Patients with paroxysmal AFIB that is easily reversed (by Valsalva maneuver, for example) should usually not be given SOTYLIZE . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sotalol hydrochloride is an antiarrhythmic indicated for: the treatment of life threatening ventricular arrhythmias ( 1.1 ) the maintenance of normal sinus rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter (AFIB/AFL) ( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use Avoid use in patients with asymptomatic ventricular premature contraction ( 1.1 ) Avoid use in patients with minimally symptomatic or easily reversible AFIB/AFL ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Life-Threatening Ventricular Arrhythmias Sotalol is indicated for the treatment of life-threatening, documented ventricular arrhythmias, such as sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT) . Limitation of Use: Sotalol may not enhance survival in patients with ventricular arrhythmias. Because of the proarrhythmic effects of sotalol, including a 1.5 to 2% rate of Torsade de Pointes (TdP) or new ventricular tachycardia/fibrillation (VT/VF) in patients with either non-sustained ventricular tachycardia (NSVT) or supraventricular arrhythmias (SVT), its use in patients with less severe arrhythmias, even if the patients are symptomatic, is generally not recommended. Avoid treatment of patients with asymptomatic ventricular premature contractions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ).] 1.2 Delay in Recurrence of Atrial Fibrillation/Atrial Flutter (AFIB/AFL) Sotalol is indicated for the maintenance of normal sinus rhythm (delay in time to recurrence of AFIB/AFL) in patients with symptomatic AFIB/AFL who are currently in sinus rhythm. Limitation of Use: Because sotalol can cause life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias, reserve its use for patients in whom AFIB/AFL is highly symptomatic. Patients with paroxysmal AFIB that is easily reversed (by Valsalva maneuver, for example) should usually not be given sotalol. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sotalol/Sotalol AF is an antiarrhythmic indicated for: • the treatment of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias (1.1) • the maintenance of normal sinus rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter (AFIB/AFL) (1.2) Limitations of Use • Sotalol has not been shown to enhance survival in patients with life threatening ventricular arrhythmias (1.1) • Avoid use in patients with minimally symptomatic or easily reversible AFIB/AFL (1.2) 1.1 Life-Threatening Ventricular Arrhythmias Sotalol/Sotalol AF is indicated for the treatment of documented, life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias, such as sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT). Limitation of Use: Sotalol/Sotalol AF has not been shown to enhance survival in patients with life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias. 1.2 Delay in Recurrence of Atrial Fibrillation/Atrial Flutter (AFIB/AFL) Sotalol/Sotalol AF is indicated for the maintenance of normal sinus rhythm (delay in time to recurrence of AFIB/AFL) in patients with highly symptomatic AFIB/AFL who are currently in sinus rhythm. Limitation of Use: Because Sotalol/Sotalol AF can cause life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias, reserve its use for patients in whom AFIB/AFL is highly symptomatic. Patients with paroxysmal AFIB that is easily reversed (by Valsalva maneuver, for example) should usually not be given Sotalol/Sotalol AF. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sotalol hydrochloride tablets are an antiarrhythmic indicated for: the treatment of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias ( 1.1 ) the maintenance of normal sinus rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter (AFIB/AFL) ( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use Sotalol hydrochloride tablets have not been shown to enhance survival in patients with life threatening ventricular arrhythmias ( 1.1 ) Avoid use in patients with minimally symptomatic or easily reversible AFIB/AFL ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Life-Threatening Ventricular Arrhythmias Sotalol hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of documented, life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias, such as sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT) .
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Sotalol hydrochloride tablets: Initial dosage in adults is 80 mg twice daily. Increase the dose as needed in increments of 80 mg/day, every 3 days to a maximum 320 mg total daily dose ( 2.2 ) Pediatrics: Dosage depends on age ( 2.4 ) 2.1 General Safety Measures for Initiation of Oral Sotalol Therapy Withdraw other antiarrhythmic therapy before starting sotalol hydrochloride tablets and monitor for a minimum of 2 to 3 plasma half-lives prior to initiating sotalol hydrochloride tablets therapy if the patient's clinical condition permits [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . Hospitalize patients being initiated or re-initiated on sotalol for at least 3 days or until steady-state drug levels are achieved in a facility that can provide cardiac resuscitation and continuous electrocardiographic monitoring. Initiate oral sotalol therapy in the presence of personnel trained in the management of serious arrhythmias. Perform a baseline ECG to determine the QT interval and measure and normalize serum potassium and magnesium levels before initiating therapy. Measure serum creatinine and calculate an estimated creatinine clearance in order to establish the appropriate dosing interval. Monitor QTc 2 to 4 hours after each uptitration in dose. Discharge patients on sotalol therapy from an in-patient setting with an adequate supply of sotalol to allow uninterrupted therapy until the patient can fill a sotalol prescription. Advise patients who miss a dose to take the next dose at the usual time. Do not double the dose or shorten the dosing interval. 2.2 Adult Dose for Ventricular Arrhythmias The recommended initial dose is 80 mg twice daily. This dose may be increased in increments of 80 mg per day every 3 days provided the QTc <500 msec [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Continually monitor patients until steady state blood levels are achieved. In most patients, a therapeutic response is obtained at a total daily dose of 160 to 320 mg/day, given in two or three divided doses. Oral doses as high as 480 to 640 mg/day have been utilized in patients with refractory life-threatening arrhythmias. 2.3 Adult Dose for Prevention of Recurrence of AFIB/AFL The recommended initial dose is 80 mg twice daily. This dose may be increased in increments of 80 mg per day every 3 days provided the QTc<500 msec [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Most patients will have satisfactory response with 120 mg twice daily. Initiation of sotalol in patients with QTc>450 msec is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . 2.4 Pediatric Dose for Ventricular Arrhythmias or AFIB/AFL Use the same precautionary measures for children as you would use for adults when initiating and re-initiating sotalol treatment. For Children Aged About 2 Years and Older For children aged about 2 years and older with normal renal function, doses normalized for body surface area are appropriate for both initial and incremental dosing. Since the Class III potency in children is not very different from that in adults, reaching plasma concentrations that occur within the adult dose range is an appropriate guide [See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.1 , 12.3 )] . For initiation of treatment, 1.2 mg/kg three times a day (3.6 mg/kg total daily dose) is approximately equivalent to the initial 160 mg total daily dose for adults. Subsequent titration to a maximum of 2.4 mg/kg three times a day (approximately equivalent to the 360 mg total daily dose for adults) can then occur. Titration should be guided by clinical response, heart rate, and QTc, with increased dosing being preferably conducted in-hospital. Allow at least 36 hours between dose increments to attain steady-state plasma concentrations of sotalol in patients with age-adjusted normal renal function. For Children Aged About 2 Years or Younger For children aged about 2 years or younger, the pediatric dosage should be reduced by a factor that depends upon age, as shown in the following graph (age plotted on a logarithmic scale in months): For a child aged 1 month, multiply the starting dose by 0.7; the initial starting dose would be (1.2 mg/kg X 0.7)=0.8 mg/kg, administered three times daily. For a child aged about 1 week, multiply the initial starting dose by 0.3; the starting dose would be (1.2 mg/kg X 0.3)=0.4 mg/kg. Use similar calculations for dose titration. 2.5 Dosage for Patients with Renal Impairment Adults In any age group with decreased renal function, sotalol doses should be lowered or the intervals between doses increased. It will take much longer to reach steady-state with any dose and/or frequency of administration. Closely monitor heart rate and QTc . Dose escalations in renal impairment should be done after administration of at least 5 doses at appropriate intervals ( Table 1 ). Sotalol is partly removed by dialysis; specific advice is unavailable on dosing patients on dialysis. Administer the initial dose of 80 mg and subsequent doses at the intervals listed in Table 1 . Table 1: Dosing Intervals in Renal Impairment Creatinine Clearance mL/min Dosing Interval (hours) > 60 12 30–59 24 10–29 36–48 < 10 Dose should be individualized 2.6 Preparation of Extemporaneous Oral Solution Sotalol hydrochloride Syrup 5 mg/mL can be compounded using Simple Syrup containing 0.1% sodium benzoate (Syrup, NF) as follows: Measure 120 mL of Simple Syrup. Transfer the syrup to a 6-ounce amber plastic (polyethylene terephthalate [PET]) prescription bottle. An oversized bottle is used to allow for a headspace, so that there will be more effective mixing during shaking of the bottle. Add five (5) sotalol hydrochloride 120 mg tablets to the bottle. These tablets are added intact; it is not necessary to crush the tablets. The addition of the tablets can also be done first. The tablets can also be crushed, if preferred. If the tablets are crushed, take care to transfer the entire quantity of tablet powder into the bottle containing the syrup. Shake the bottle to wet the entire surface of the tablets. If the tablets have been crushed, shake the bottle until the endpoint is achieved. Allow the tablets to hydrate for at least two hours. After at least two hours have elapsed, shake the bottle intermittently over the course of at least another two hours until the tablets are completely disintegrated. The tablets can be allowed to hydrate overnight to simplify the disintegration process. The endpoint is achieved when a dispersion of fine particles in the syrup is obtained. This compounding procedure results in a solution containing 5 mg/mL of sotalol hydrochloride. The fine solid particles are the water-insoluble inactive ingredients of the tablets. Stability studies indicate that the suspension is stable for three months when stored at 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature] and ambient humidity. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Sotalol hydrochloride tablets: Initial dosage in adults is 80 mg twice daily. Increase the dose as needed in increments of 80 mg/day, every 3 days to a maximum 320 mg total daily dose ( 2.2 ) • Pediatrics: Dosage depends on age ( 2.4 ) 2.1 General Safety Measures for Initiation of Oral Sotalol Therapy Withdraw other antiarrhythmic therapy before starting sotalol hydrochloride tablets and monitor for a minimum of 2 to 3 plasma half-lives prior to initiating sotalol hydrochloride tablets therapy if the patient's clinical condition permits [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . Age about 2 years or younger 2.5 Dosage for Patients with Renal Impairment Adults In any age group with decreased renal function, sotalol doses should be lowered or the intervals between doses increased. Table 1: Dosing Intervals in Renal Impairment Creatinine Clearance mL/min Dosing Interval (hours) > 60 12 30–59 24 10–29 36–48 < 10 Dose should be individualized 2.6 Preparation of Extemporaneous Oral Solution Sotalol hydrochloride Syrup 5 mg/mL can be compounded using Simple Syrup containing 0.1% sodium benzoate (Syrup, NF) as follows: 1. Measure 120 mL of Simple Syrup. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. Increase the dose as needed in increments of 80 mg/day, every 3 days to a maximum 320 mg total daily dose ( 2.2 ) Pediatrics: Dosage depends on age ( 2.4 ) 2.1 General Safety Measures for Initiation of Oral Sotalol Therapy Withdraw other antiarrhythmic therapy before starting sotalol hydrochloride tablets and monitor for a minimum of 2 to 3 plasma half-lives prior to initiating sotalol hydrochloride tablets (AF) therapy if the patient’s clinical condition permits [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . This dose may be increased in increments of 80 mg per day every 3 days provided the QTc <500 msec [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Initiation of sotalol in patients with QTc >450 msec is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Since the Class III potency in children is not very different from that in adults, reaching plasma concentrations that occur within the adult dose range is an appropriate guide [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.1 , 12.3 )] . Titration should be guided by clinical response, heart rate and QTc, with increased dosing being preferably conducted in-hospital. For Children Aged About 2 Years or Younger For children aged about 2 years or younger, the pediatric dosage should be reduced by a factor that depends upon age, as shown in the following graph (age plotted on a logarithmic scale in months): For a child aged 1 month, multiply the starting dose by 0.7; the initial starting dose would be (1.2 mg/kg X 0.7) = 0.8 mg/kg, administered three times daily. For a child aged about 1 week, multiply the initial starting dose by 0.3; the starting dose would be (1.2 mg/kg X 0.3) = 0.4 mg/kg. Closely monitor heart rate and QTc. Dose escalations in renal impairment should be done after administration of at least 5 doses at appropriate intervals (Table 1). Administer the initial dose of 80 mg and subsequent doses at the intervals listed in Table 1. Table 1: Dosing Intervals in Renal Impairment Creatinine Clearance mL/min Dosing Interval (hours) >60 12 30 to 59 24 10 to 29 36 to 48 ˂10 Dose should be individualized 2.6 Preparation of Extemporaneous Oral Solution Sotalol hydrochloride Syrup 5 mg/mL can be compounded using Simple Syrup containing 0.1% sodium benzoate (Syrup, NF) as follows: Measure 120 mL of Simple Syrup. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Sotalol hydrochloride/Sotalol hydrochloride AF tablets: Initial dosage in adults is 80 mg twice daily. Increase the dose as needed in increments of 80 mg/day, every 3 days to a maximum 320 mg total daily dose ( 2.2 ) Pediatrics: Dosage depends on age ( 2.4 ) 2.1 General Safety Measures for Initiation of Oral Sotalol Therapy Withdraw other antiarrhythmic therapy before starting sotalol hydrochloride/sotalol hydrochloride AF tablets and monitor for a minimum of 2 to 3 plasma half-lives prior to initiating sotalol hydrochloride/sotalol hydrochloride AF tablets therapy if the patient's clinical condition permits [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . This dose may be increased in increments of 80 mg per day every 3 days provided the QTc <500 msec [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Titration should be guided by clinical response, heart rate, and QT c , with increased dosing being preferably conducted in-hospital. Table 1: Dosing Intervals in Renal Impairment Creatinine Clearance mL/min Dosing Interval (hours) > 60 12 30–59 24 10–29 36–48 < 10 Dose should be individualized 2.6 Preparation of Extemporaneous Oral Solution Sotalol hydrochloride/Sotalol hydrochloride AF Syrup 5 mg/mL can be compounded using Simple Syrup containing 0.1% sodium benzoate (Syrup, NF) as follows: 1. Add five (5) Sotalol hydrochloride/Sotalol hydrochloride AF 120 mg tablets to the bottle. This compounding procedure results in a solution containing 5 mg/mL of sotalol HCl. Figure.jpg 2.5 Dosage for Patients with Renal Impairment Adults In any age group with decreased renal function, sotalol doses should be lowered or the intervals between doses increased. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Initiate therapy at 80 mg twice daily. Increase the dose as needed in increments of 80 mg/day, every 3 days to a maximum 320 mg total daily dose ( 2.2 ) If creatinine clearance is between 60 and 40 mL/min, administer once daily, if less than 40 mL/min, sotalol is not recommended ( 2.1 ) Pediatrics: Dosage depends on age ( 2.4 ) 2.1 General Safety Measures of Oral Sotalol Therapy Withdraw other antiarrhythmic therapy before starting SOTYLIZE and monitor for a minimum of 2 to 3 plasma half-lives prior to initiating SOTYLIZE therapy if the patient's clinical condition permits [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . 2.2 Adult Dose for Ventricular Arrhythmia The recommended initial dose is 80 mg twice daily. This dose may be increased in increments of 80 mg per day every 3 days provided the QTc <500 msec [see Warning and Precautions (5.1) ] . Oral doses as high as 480 to 640 mg once or twice a day have been utilized in patients with refractory life-threatening arrhythmias. This dose may be increased in increments of 80 mg per day every 3 days provided the QTc ˂500 msec [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Most patients will have a satisfactory response with 120 mg twice daily. Initiation of sotalol in patients with QTc ˃450 msec is contraindicated [see Contraindication (4) ] . Since the Class III potency in children is not very different from that in adults, reaching plasma concentrations that occur within the adult dose range is an appropriate guide [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.1 , 12.3) ]. For Children Aged About 2 Years or Younger For children aged 2 years or younger, the pediatric dosage should be reduced by a factor that depends upon age, as shown in the following graph (age plotted on a logarithmic scale in months): For a child aged 1 month, multiply the starting dose by 0.7; the initial starting dose would be (1.2 mg/kg × 0.7)=0.8 mg/kg, administered three times daily. For a child aged about 1 week, multiply the initial starting dose by 0.3; the starting dose would be (1.2 mg/kg × 0.3)=0.4 mg/kg. Image 2.5 Dosage for Patients with Renal Impairment Adults In any age group with decreased renal function, sotalol doses should be lowered or the intervals between doses increased. Table 1: Dosing Intervals in Renal Impairment Creatinine Clearance mL/min Dosing Interval (hours) > 60 12 30-59 24 10-29 36-48 <10 Dose should be individualized 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Sotalol hydrochloride tablets : Initial dosage in adults is 80 mg twice daily. Increase the dose as needed in increments of 80 mg/day, every 3 days to a maximum 320 mg total daily dose ( 2.2 ) Pediatrics: Dosage depends on age ( 2.4 ) 2.1 General Safety Measures for Initiation of Oral Sotalol Therapy Withdraw other antiarrhythmic therapy before starting sotalol and monitor carefully for a minimum of 2 to 3 plasma half-lives if the patient's clinical condition permits [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . Hospitalize patients initiated or re-initiated on sotalol for at least 3 days or until steady-state drug levels are achieved, in a facility that can provide cardiac resuscitation and continuous electrocardiographic monitoring. Measure serum creatinine and calculate an estimated creatinine clearance in order to establish the appropriate dosing interval (insert cross ref to renal dosing). Continually monitor patients with each uptitration in dose, until they reach steady state. Determine QTc 2 to 4 hours after every dose. In most patients, a therapeutic response is obtained at a total daily dose of 160 to 320 mg/day, given in two or three divided doses (because of the long terminal elimination half- life of sotalol, dosing more than a two times a day is usually not necessary). Oral doses as high as 480-640 mg/day have been utilized in patients with refractory life-threatening arrhythmias. This dose may be increased in increments of 80 mg per day every 3 days provided the QTc<500 msec [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Initiation of sotalol in patients with creatinine clearance < 40 ml/min or QTc>450 is contraindicated [see Contraindication ( 4 )] . For children aged about 2 years and older For children aged about 2 years and older, with normal renal function, doses normalized for body surface area are appropriate for both initial and incremental dosing. From pediatric pharmacokinetic data the following is recommended: For initiation of treatment, 30 mg/m 2 three times a day (90 mg/m 2 total daily dose) is approximately equivalent to the initial 160 mg total daily dose for adults. Subsequent titration to a maximum of 60 mg/m 2 (approximately equivalent to the 360 mg total daily dose for adults) can then occur. Titration should be guided by clinical response, heart rate and QTc, with increased dosing being preferably carried out in-hospital. At least 36 hours should be allowed between dose increments to attain steady-state plasma concentrations of sotalol in patients with age-adjusted normal renal function. For children aged about 2 years or younger For children aged about 2 years or younger, the above pediatric dosage should be reduced by a factor that depends heavily upon age, as shown in the following graph, age plotted on a logarithmic scale in months. For a child aged 20 months, the dosing suggested for children with normal renal function aged 2 years or greater should be multiplied by about 0.97; the initial starting dose would be (30 X 0.97)=29.1 mg/m 2 , administered three times daily. For a child aged 1 month, the starting dose should be multiplied by 0.68; the initial starting dose would be (30 X 0.68)=20 mg/m 2 , administered three times daily. For a child aged about 1 week, the initial starting dose should be multiplied by 0.3; the starting dose would be (30 X 0.3)=9 mg/m 2 . Since the half-life of sotalol decreases with decreasing age (below about 2 years), time to steady-state will also increase. Thus, in neonates the time to steady-state may be as long as a week or longer. 2.5 Dosage for Patients with Renal Impairment Adults Use of sotalol in any age group with decreased renal function should be at lower doses or increased intervals between doses. The initial dose of 80 mg and subsequent doses should be administered at the intervals listed in Table 1 or Table 2 . Table 1: Dosing Intervals for treatment of Ventricular Arrhythmias in renal impairment Creatinine Clearance mL/min Dosing Interval (hours) > 60 12 30–59 24 10–29 36–48 < 10 Dose should be individualized Table 2: Dosing Intervals for treatment of AFIB/AFL in renal impairment Creatinine Clearance mL/min Dosing Interval (hours) > 60 12 40–59 24 <40 Contraindicated 2.6 Preparation of Extemporaneous Oral Solution Sotalol hydrochloride Syrup 5 mg/mL can be compounded using Simple Syrup containing 0.1% sodium benzoate (Syrup, NF) as follows: Measure 120 mL of Simple Syrup. Add five (5) sotalol hydrochloride tablets USP, 120 mg to the bottle. The tablets can also be crushed if preferred. If the tablets are crushed, care should be taken to transfer the entire quantity of tablet powder into the bottle containing the syrup. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Sotalol/Sotalol AF: Initial dosage in adults is 80 mg twice daily. Increase the dose as needed in increments of 80 mg/day, every 3 days to a maximum 320 mg total daily dose (2.2) Pediatrics: Dosage depends on age (2.4) 2.1 General Safety Measures for Initiation of Oral Sotalol Therapy Withdraw other antiarrhythmic therapy before starting Sotalol/Sotalol AF and monitor for a minimum of 2 to 3 plasma half-lives prior to initiating Sotalol/Sotalol AF therapy if the patient's clinical condition permits [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Hospitalize patients being initiated or re-initiated on sotalol for at least 3 days or until steady-state drug levels are achieved, in a facility that can provide cardiac resuscitation and continuous electrocardiographic monitoring. This dose may be increased in increments of 80 mg per day every 3 days provided the QT c <500 msec [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. This dose may be increased in increments of 80 mg per day every 3 days provided the QTc <500 msec [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Initiation of sotalol in patients with QTc >450 msec is contraindicated [see Contraindication (4) ]. 2.4 Pediatric Dose for Ventricular Arrhythmias Use the same precautionary measures for children as you would use for adults when initiating and re-initiating sotalol treatment. Since the Class III potency in children is not very different from that in adults, reaching plasma concentrations that occur within the adult dose range is an appropriate guide [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.1 , 12.3 ) ]. Subsequent titration to a maximum of 2.4 mg/kg (approximately equivalent to the 360 mg total daily dose for adults) can then occur. Titration should be guided by clinical response, heart rate and QT c , with increased dosing being preferably carried out in-hospital. Closely monitor heart rate and QT c . The initial dose of 80 mg and subsequent doses should be administered at the intervals listed in Table 1. Table 1: Dosing Intervals for treatment of Ventricular Arrhythmias in renal impairment Creatinine Clearance mL/min Dosing Interval (hours) > 60 12 30–59 24 10–29 36–48 < 10 Dose should be individualized 2.6 Preparation of Extemporaneous Oral Solution Sotalol/Sotalol AF Syrup 5 mg/mL can be compounded using Simple Syrup containing 0.1% sodium benzoate (Syrup, NF) as follows: Measure 120 mL of Simple Syrup. Stability studies indicate that the suspension is stable for three months when stored at 15°C to 30°C (59°F to 86°F) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] and ambient humidity. Increase the dose as needed in increments of 80 mg/day, every 3 days to a maximum 320 mg total daily dose ( 2. 2) Pediatrics: Dosage depends on age ( 2.4 ) 2.1 General Safety Measures for Initiation of Oral Sotalol Therapy Withdraw other antiarrhythmic therapy before starting sotalol hydrochloride tablets and monitor for a minimum of 2 to 3 plasma half-lives prior to initiating sotalol hydrochloride tablets therapy if the patient's clinical condition permits [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . Hospitalize patients initiated or re-initiated on sotalol for at least 3 days or until steady-state drug levels are achieved in a facility that can provide cardiac resuscitation and continuous electrocardiographic monitoring. Initiation of sotalol in patients with QTc>450 is contraindicated [see Contraindication ( 4 )] . Add five (5) sotalol hydrochloride tablets 120 mg to the bottle.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sotalol hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Sinus bradycardia, sick sinus syndrome, second and third degree AV block, unless a functioning pacemaker is present Congenital or acquired long QT syndromes Cardiogenic shock or decompensated heart failure Serum potassium <4 mEq/L Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions Hypersensitivity to sotalol For the treatment of AFIB/AFL, sotalol hydrochloride tablets are also contraindicated in patients with: Baseline QT interval >450 msec For the treatment of AFIB/AFL or ventricular arrythmias Sinus bradycardia, 2 nd or 3 rd degree AV block, sick sinus syndrome ( 4 ) Congenital or acquired long QT syndrome ( 4 ) Serum potassium <4 mEq/L ( 4) Cardiogenic shock, decompensated heart failure ( 4 ) Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to sotalol ( 4 ) For the treatment of AFIB/AFL also contraindicated for: QT interval >450 msecs ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sotalol hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with: • Sinus bradycardia, sick sinus syndrome, second and third degree AV block, unless a functioning pacemaker is present • Congenital or acquired long QT syndromes • Cardiogenic shock or decompensated heart failure • Serum potassium <4 mEq/L • Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions • Hypersensitivity to sotalol For the treatment of AFIB/AFL, sotalol hydrochloride tablets are also contraindicated in patients with: • Baseline QT interval >450 msec For the treatment of AFIB/AFL or ventricular arrythmias • Sinus bradycardia, 2 nd or 3 rd degree AV block, sick sinus syndrome ( 4 ) • Congenital or acquired long QT syndrome ( 4 ) • Serum potassium <4 mEq/L ( 4) • Cardiogenic shock, decompensated heart failure ( 4 ) • Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to sotalol ( 4 ) For the treatment of AFIB/AFL also contraindicated for: • QT interval >450 msecs ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sotalol hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Sinus bradycardia, sick sinus syndrome, second and third degree AV block, unless a functioning pacemaker is present Congenital or acquired long QT syndromes Cardiogenic shock or decompensated heart failure Serum potassium <4 mEq/L Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions Hypersensitivity to sotalol For the treatment of AFIB/AFL, sotalol hydrochloride tablets are also contraindicated in patients with: Baseline QT interval >450 msec For the treatment of AFIB/AFL or ventricular arrhythmias Sinus bradycardia, 2 nd or 3 rd degree AV block, sick sinus syndrome ( 4 ) Congenital or acquired long QT syndrome ( 4 ) Serum potassium <4 mEq/L ( 4 ) Cardiogenic shock, decompensated heart failure ( 4 ) Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to sotalol ( 4 ) For the treatment of AFIB/AFL also contraindicated for: QT interval >450 msec ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sotalol hydrochloride/Sotalol hydrochloride (AF) tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Sinus bradycardia, sick sinus syndrome, second and third degree AV block, unless a functioning pacemaker is present Congenital or acquired long QT syndromes Cardiogenic shock or decompensated heart failure Serum potassium <4 mEq/L Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions Hypersensitivity to sotalol For the treatment of AFIB/AFL, sotalol hydrochloride/sotalol hydrochloride AF tablets are also contraindicated in patients with: Baseline QT interval >450 msec For the treatment of AFIB/AFL or ventricular arrythmias Sinus bradycardia, 2 nd or 3 rd degree AV block, sick sinus syndrome ( 4 ) Congenital or acquired long QT syndrome ( 4 ) Serum potassium <4 mEq/L (4) Cardiogenic shock, decompensated heart failure ( 4 ) Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to sotalol ( 4 ) For the treatment of AFIB/AFL also contraindicated for: QT interval >450 msec ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS For the treatment of AFIB/AFL or ventricular arrhythmias, SOTYLIZE is contraindicated in patients with: Baseline QT interval ˃450 msec Sinus bradycardia, sick sinus syndrome, second and third degree AV block, unless a functioning pacemaker is present Congenital or acquired long QT syndromes Cardiogenic shock or decompensated heart failure Serum potassium <4 mEq/L Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions Hypersensitivity to sotalol For the treatment of AFIB/AFL or ventricular arrhythmias Baseline QT interval ˃450 msec ( 4 ) Sinus bradycardia, 2 nd or 3 rd degree AV block, sick sinus syndrome ( 4 ) Congenital or acquired long QT syndromes ( 4 ) Serum potassium ˂4 mEq/L ( 4 ) Cardiogenic shock, decompensated heart failure ( 4 ) Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to sotalol ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sotalol hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with: Sinus bradycardia, sick sinus syndrome, second and third degree AV block, unless a functioning pacemaker is present Congenital or acquired long QT syndromes Cardiogenic shock or decompensated heart failure Serum potassium <4 mEq/L Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions Hypersensitivity to sotalol For the treatment of AFIB/AFL, sotalol hydrochloride is also contraindicated in patients with: Baseline QT interval >450 ms Creatinine clearance < 40 mL/min For the treatment of AFIB/AFL or ventricular arrythmias Sinus bradycardia, 2 nd or 3 rd degree AV block, sick sinus syndrome ( 4 ) Congenital or acquired long QT syndrome, ( 4 ) Serum potassium <4 mEq/L ( 4) Cardiogenic shock, decompensated heart failure ( 4 ) Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to sotalol ( 4 ) For the treatment of AFIB/AFL also contraindicated for: QT interval >450 ms ( 4 ) Creatine clearance <40 ml/min ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sotalol/Sotalol AF is contraindicated in patients with: Sinus bradycardia, sick sinus syndrome, second and third degree AV block, unless a functioning pacemaker is present Congenital or acquired long QT syndromes Cardiogenic shock or decompensated heart failure Serum potassium <4 mEq/L Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions Hypersensitivity to sotalol For the treatment of AFIB/AFL, Sotalol/Sotalol AF is also contraindicated in patients with: Baseline QT interval >450 msec For the treatment of AFIB/AFL or ventricular arrhythmias Sinus bradycardia, 2nd or 3rd degree AV block, sick sinus syndrome (4) Congenital or acquired long QT syndrome (4) Serum potassium <4 mEq/L (4) Cardiogenic shock, decompensated heart failure (4) Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions (4) Hypersensitivity to Sotalol (4) For the treatment of AFIB/AFL also contraindicated for: QT interval >450 msec (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sotalol hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Sinus bradycardia, sick sinus syndrome, second and third degree AV block, unless a functioning pacemaker is present Congenital or acquired long QT syndromes Cardiogenic shock or decompensated heart failure Serum potassium <4 mEq/L Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions Hypersensitivity to sotalol For the treatment of AFIB/AFL, sotalol hydrochloride tablets are also contraindicated in patients with: Baseline QT interval >450 msec For the treatment of AFIB/AFL or ventricular arrythmias Sinus bradycardia, 2 nd or 3 rd degree AV block, sick sinus syndrome ( 4 ) Congenital or acquired long QT syndrome, ( 4 ) Serum potassium <4 mEq/L ( 4) Cardiogenic shock, decompensated heart failure ( 4 ) Bronchial asthma or related bronchospastic conditions ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to sotalol ( 4 ) For the treatment of AFIB/AFL also contraindicated for: QT interval >450 msecs ( 4 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Class I or III Antiarrhythmics or other drugs that prolong the QT interval: Avoid concomitant use ( 7.1 ) Digoxin, calcium channel blocker: increased risk of bradycardia, hypotension, heart failure ( 7.2 ) Dosage of insulin or antidiabetic drugs may need adjustment ( 7.4 ) Aluminum- or magnesium-based antacids reduce sotalol exposure ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Antiarrhythmics and Other QT Prolonging Drugs Discontinue Class I or Class III antiarrhythmic agents for at least three half-lives prior to dosing with sotalol. Class Ia antiarrhythmic drugs, such as disopyramide, quinidine, and procainamide, and other Class III drugs (for example, amiodarone) are not recommended as concomitant therapy with sotalol hydrochloride, because of their potential to prolong refractoriness [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. 7.2 Negative Chronotropes Digitalis glycosides, diltiazem, verapamil, and beta-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use with negative chronotropes can increase the risk of bradycardia or hypotension. 7.3 Catecholamine-Depleting Agents Concomitant use of catecholamine-depleting drugs, such as reserpine and guanethidine, with a beta-blocker may produce an excessive reduction of resting sympathetic nervous tone. Monitor such patients for evidence of hypotension and/or marked bradycardia which may produce syncope. 7.4 Insulin and Oral Antidiabetics Hyperglycemia may occur, and the dosage of insulin or antidiabetic drugs may require adjustment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . 7.5 Beta-2-Receptor Stimulants Beta-agonists such as albuterol, terbutaline and isoproterenol may have to be administered in increased dosages when used concomitantly with sotalol. 7.6 Clonidine Concomitant use with sotalol increases the risk of bradycardia and AV block. Because beta-blockers may potentiate the rebound hypertension sometimes observed after clonidine discontinuation, withdraw sotalol several days before the gradual withdrawal of clonidine to reduce the risk of rebound hypertension. 7.7 Antacids Avoid administration of oral sotalol within 2 hours of antacids containing aluminum oxide and magnesium hydroxide. 7.8 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions The presence of sotalol in the urine may result in falsely elevated levels of urinary metanephrine when measured by fluorimetric or photometric methods. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Class I or III Antiarrhythmics or other drugs that prolong the QT interval: Avoid concomitant use ( 7.1 ) • Digoxin, calcium channel blocker: increased risk of bradycardia, hypotension, heart failure ( 7.2 ) • Dosage of insulin or antidiabetic drugs may need adjustment ( 7.4 ) • Aluminum- or magnesium-based antacids reduce sotalol exposure ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Antiarrhythmics and Other QT Prolonging Drugs Discontinue Class I or Class III antiarrhythmic agents for at least three half-lives prior to dosing with sotalol. Class Ia antiarrhythmic drugs, such as disopyramide, quinidine, and procainamide, and other Class III drugs (for example, amiodarone) are not recommended as concomitant therapy with sotalol hydrochloride, because of their potential to prolong refractoriness [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 7.4 Insulin and Oral Antidiabetics Hyperglycemia may occur, and the dosage of insulin or antidiabetic drugs may require adjustment [see Warnings and Precautions 5.7) ] . Class Ia antiarrhythmic drugs, such as disopyramide, quinidine, and procainamide, and other Class III drugs (for example, amiodarone) are not recommended as concomitant therapy with sotalol hydrochloride/sotalol hydrochloride AF, because of their potential to prolong refractoriness [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. 7.4 Insulin and Oral Antidiabetics Hyperglycemia may occur, and the dosage of insulin or antidiabetic drugs may require adjustment [see Warnings and Precautions 5.7 )] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Class I or III Antiarrhythmics or other drugs that prolong the QT interval: Avoid concomitant use ( 7.1 ) Digoxin, calcium channel blocker: increased risk of bradycardia, hypotension, heart failure ( 7.2 ) Dosage of insulin or antidiabetic drugs may need adjustment ( 7.4 ) Aluminum or magnesium-based antacids reduce sotalol exposure ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Antiarrhythmics and Other QT Prolonging Drugs Discontinue Class I or Class III antiarrhythmic agents for at least three half-lives prior to dosing with sotalol. Class Ia antiarrhythmic drugs such as disopyramide, quinidine and procainamide and other Class III drugs (for example, amiodarone) are not recommended as concomitant therapy with sotalol because of their potential to prolong refractoriness [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Concomitant use with negative chronotropes can increase the risk of bradycardia or hypotension . Monitor such patients for hypotension and/or marked bradycardia which may produce syncope. 7.4 Insulin and Oral Antidiabetics Hyperglycemia may occur, and the dosage of insulin or antidiabetic drugs may require adjustment [see Warnings and Precautions 5.7 ] 7.5 Beta-2-Receptor Stimulants Beta-agonists such as albuterol, terbutaline and isoproterenol may have to be administered in increased dosages when used concomitantly with sotalol. 7.8 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions The presence of sotalol in the urine may result in falsely elevated levels of urinary metanephrine when measured by flourimetric or photometric methods. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Class I or III Antiarrhythmics or other drugs that prolong the QT interval: Avoid concomitant use ( 7.1 ) Digoxin, calcium channel blocker: increased risk of bradycardia, hypotension, heart failure ( 7.2 ) Dosage of insulin or antidiabetic drugs may need adjustment ( 7.5 ) Aluminum or magnesium-based antacids reduce sotalol exposure ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Antiarrhythmics and other QT Prolonging Drugs Sotalol has not been studied with other drugs that prolong the QT interval such as antiarrhythmics, some phenothiazines, tricyclic antidepressants, certain oral macrolides and certain quinolone antibiotics. Discontinue Class I or Class III antiarrhythmic agents for at least three half-lives prior to dosing with sotalol. Class Ia antiarrhythmic drugs, such as disopyramide, quinidine and procainamide and other Class III drugs (for example, amiodarone) are not recommended as concomitant therapy with sotalol, because of their potential to prolong refractoriness [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. There is only limited experience with the concomitant use of Class Ib or Ic antiarrhythmics. Additive Class II effects would also be anticipated with the use of other beta-blocking agents concomitantly with sotalol 7.2 Digoxin Proarrhythmic events were more common in sotalol treated patients also receiving digoxin; it is not clear whether this represents an interaction or is related to the presence of CHF, a known risk factor for proarrhythmia, in the patients receiving digoxin. Both digitalis glycosides and beta-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia. 7.3 Calcium-Channel Blocking Drugs Sotalol and calcium-blocking drugs can be expected to have additive effects on atrioventricular conduction or ventricular function. Monitor such patients for evidence of bradycardia and hypotension. 7.4 Catecholamine-Depleting Agents Concomitant use of catecholamine-depleting drugs, such as reserpine and guanethidine, with a beta-blocker may produce an excessive reduction of resting sympathetic nervous tone. 7.5 Insulin and Oral Antidiabetics Hyperglycemia may occur, and the dosage of insulin or antidiabetic drugs may require adjustment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . 7.6 Clonidine Concomitant use with sotalol increases the risk of bradycardia. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Class I or III Antiarrhythmics or other drugs that prolong the QT interval: Avoid concomitant use ( 7.1 ) Digoxin, calcium channel blocker: increased risk of bradycardia, hypotension, heart failure ( 7.2 ) Dosage of insulin or antidiabetic drugs may need adjustment ( 7.5 ) Aluminum or magnesium-based antacids reduce sotalol exposure ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Antiarrhythmics and other QT Prolonging Drugs Discontinue Class I or Class III antiarrhythmic agents for at least three half-lives prior to dosing with sotalol. Class Ia antiarrhythmic drugs, such as disopyramide, quinidine, and procainamide, and other Class III drugs (for example, amiodarone) are not recommended as concomitant therapy with Sotalol/Sotalol AF, because of their potential to prolong refractoriness [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 )]. 7.4 Insulin and Oral Antidiabetics Hyperglycemia may occur, and the dosage of insulin or antidiabetic drugs may require adjustment [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Class Ia antiarrhythmic drugs, such as disopyramide, quinidine and procainamide, and other Class III drugs (for example, amiodarone) are not recommended as concomitant therapy with sotalol hydrochloride, because of their potential to prolong refractoriness [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )].

=== SUMATRIPTAN SUCCINATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sumatriptan Injection, USP is indicated in adults for (1) the acute treatment of migraine, with or without aura, and (2) the acute treatment of cluster headache. Limitations of Use: • Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine or cluster headache has been established. If a patient has no response to the first migraine attack treated with Sumatriptan Injection reconsider the diagnosis before Sumatriptan Injection is administered to treat any subsequent attacks. • Sumatriptan Injection is not indicated for the prevention of migraine attacks or cluster headache attacks. Sumatriptan injection, USP is a serotonin (5-HT 1B/1D ) receptor agonist (triptan) indicated for: • Acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults (1) • Acute treatment of cluster headache in adults (1) Limitations of Use : • Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine or cluster headache has been established (1) • Not indicated for the prophylactic therapy of migraine or cluster headache attacks (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sumatriptan tablets are indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults. Limitations of Use: Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine headache has been established. If a patient has no response to the first migraine attack treated with sumatriptan, reconsider the diagnosis of migraine before sumatriptan is administered to treat any subsequent attacks. Sumatriptan is not indicated for the prevention of migraine attacks. Safety and effectiveness of sumatriptan tablets have not been established for cluster headache. Sumatriptan is a serotonin (5-HT1B/1D) receptor agonist (triptan) indicated for acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults. (1) Not indicated for the prophylactic therapy of migraine attacks. (1) Not indicated for the treatment of cluster headache. (1) Limitations of Use: • Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine headache has been established. • Sumatriptan is not indicated for the prevention of migraine attacks. • Safety and effectiveness of sumatriptan tablets have not been established for cluster headache. (1) • Not indicated for the prophylactic therapy of migraine attacks. (1) • Not indicated for the treatment of cluster headache. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sumatriptan injection is indicated in adults for (1) the acute treatment of migraine, with or without aura, and (2) the acute treatment of cluster headache. Limitations of Use: Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine or cluster headache has been established. If a patient has no response to the first migraine or cluster headache attack treated with sumatriptan injection, reconsider the diagnosis before sumatriptan injection is administered to treat any subsequent attacks. Sumatriptan injection is not indicated for the prevention of migraine or cluster headache attacks. SUMATRIPTAN injection, for subcutaneous use Sumatriptan injection is a serotonin (5-HT1B/1D) receptor agonist (triptan) indicated for: Acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults. ( 1 ) Acute treatment of cluster headache in adults. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use: Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine or cluster headache has been established. ( 1 ) Not indicated for the prophylactic therapy of migraine or cluster headache attacks. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sumatriptan tablets, USP are indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults. If a patient has no response to the first migraine attack treated with sumatriptan tablets, USP, reconsider the diagnosis of migraine before sumatriptan tablets, USP are administered to treat any subsequent attacks. • Sumatriptan tablets, USP are not indicated for the prevention of migraine attacks. • Safety and effectiveness of sumatriptan tablets, USP have not been established for cluster headache. Sumatriptan tablets, USP are a serotonin (5-HT 1B/1D ) receptor agonist (triptan) indicated for acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use: • Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine headache has been established. ( 1 ) • Not indicated for the prophylactic therapy of migraine attacks. ( 1 ) • Not indicated for the treatment of cluster headache. (1) Limitations of Use: • Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine headache has been established. Limitations of Use Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine or cluster headache has been established. Sumatriptan injection is a serotonin (5-HT 1B/1D ) receptor agonist (triptan) indicated for: Acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults. (1) Acute treatment of cluster headache in adults. (1) Limitations of Use Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine or cluster headache has been established. (1) Not indicated for the prophylactic therapy of migraine or cluster headache attacks. If a patient has no response to the first migraine attack treated with sumatriptan tablets, reconsider the diagnosis of migraine before sumatriptan tablets are administered to treat any subsequent attacks. Sumatriptan tablets are not indicated for the prevention of migraine attacks. Sumatriptan tablets are a serotonin (5-HT 1B/1D ) receptor agonist (triptan) indicated for acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use: Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine headache has been established. ( 1 ) Not indicated for the prophylactic therapy of migraine attacks. ( 1 ) Not indicated for the treatment of cluster headache. • Sumatriptan tablets are not indicated for the prevention of migraine attacks.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For subcutaneous use only (2.1) • Acute treatment of migraine: single dose of 1 to 6 mg (2.1) • Acute treatment of cluster headache: single dose of 6 mg (2.1) • Maximum dose in a 24-hour period: 12 mg, separate doses by at least 1 hour (2.1) • Patients receiving doses other than 4 or 6 mg: Use the 6-mg single-dose vial (2.3) 2.1 Dosing Information The maximum single recommended adult dose of Sumatriptan injection, USP for the acute treatment of migraine or cluster headache is 6 mg injected subcutaneously. For the treatment of migraine, if side effects are dose limiting, lower doses (1 mg to 5 mg) may be used [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. For the treatment of cluster headache, the efficacy of lower doses has not been established. The maximum cumulative dose that may be given in 24 hours is 12 mg, two 6 mg injections separated by at least 1 hour. A second 6-mg dose should only be considered if some response to a first injection was observed. 2.3 Administration of Doses of Sumatriptan Other than 4 or 6 mg In patients receiving doses other than 4mg or 6 mg, use the 6-mg single-dose vial; Visually inspect the vial for particulate matter and discoloration before administration. Do not use if particulates and discolorations are noted. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Single dose of 25 mg, 50 mg, or 100 mg tablet. (2.1) A second dose should only be considered if some response to the first dose was observed. Separate doses by at least 2 hours. (2.1) Maximum dose in a 24 hour period: 200 mg. (2.1) Maximum single dose should not exceed 50 mg in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. (2.2) 2.1 Dosing Information The recommended dose of sumatriptan tablets is 25 mg, 50 mg, or 100 mg. Doses of 50 mg and 100 mg may provide a greater effect than the 25 mg dose, but doses of 100 mg may not provide a greater effect than the 50 mg dose. Higher doses may have a greater risk of adverse reactions [see Clinical Studies (14)] . If the migraine has not resolved by 2 hours after taking sumatriptan tablets, or returns after a transient improvement, a second dose may be administered at least 2 hours after the first dose. The maximum daily dose is 200 mg in a 24 hour period. Use after sumatriptan injection If the migraine returns following an initial treatment with sumatriptan injection, additional single sumatriptan tablets (up to 100 mg/day) may be given with an interval of at least 2 hours between tablet doses. The safety of treating an average of more than 4 headaches in a 30 day period has not been established. 2.2 Dosing in Patients with Hepatic Impairment If treatment is deemed advisable in the presence of mild to moderate hepatic impairment, the maximum single dose should not exceed 50 mg [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Single dose of 25 mg, 50 mg, or 100 mg tablet. (2.1) • A second dose should only be considered if some response to the first dose was observed. (2.1) • Maximum dose in a 24 hour period: 200 mg. (2.1) • Maximum single dose should not exceed 50 mg in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For subcutaneous use only ( 2.1 ) Acute treatment of migraine: single dose of 4 mg or 6 mg. ( 2.1 ) Acute treatment of cluster headache: single dose of 6 mg. ( 2.1 ) Maximum dose in a 24-hour period: 12 mg, separate doses by at least 1 hour. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Dosing Information The maximum single recommended adult dose of sumatriptan injection for the acute treatment of migraine or cluster headache is 6 mg injected subcutaneously. For the treatment of migraine, if side effects are dose limiting, the lower dose of 4 mg may be used [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. A second 6 mg dose should only be considered if some response to a first injection was observed. 2.2 Administration Using the Sumatriptan injection Autoinjector An autoinjector device is available for use with 4-mg and 6-mg prefilled syringes. With this prefilled syringe autoinjector, the needle penetrates approximately 1/4 inch (5 to 6 mm). The injection is intended to be given subcutaneously, and intramuscular or intravascular delivery must be avoided. Instruct patients on the proper use of Sumatriptan injection autoinjector and direct them to use injection sites with an adequate skin and subcutaneous thickness to accommodate the length of the needle. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Single dose of 25 mg, 50 mg, or 100 mg tablet.( 2.1 ) • A second dose should only be considered if some response to the first dose was observed. ( 2.1 ) • Maximum dose in a 24-hour period: 200 mg. ( 2.1 ) • Maximum single dose should not exceed 50 mg in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Dosing Information The recommended dose of sumatriptan tablets is 25 mg, 50 mg, or 100 mg. Higher doses may have a greater risk of adverse reactions [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . The maximum daily dose is 200 mg in a 24-hour period. Use after Sumatriptan Injection : If the migraine returns following an initial treatment with sumatriptan injection, additional single sumatriptan tablets (up to 100 mg/day) may be given with an interval of at least 2 hours between tablet doses. The safety of treating an average of more than 4 headaches in a 30-day period has not been established. 2.2 Dosing in Patients With Hepatic Impairment If treatment is deemed advisable in the presence of mild to moderate hepatic impairment, the maximum single dose should not exceed 50 mg [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Single dose of 25 mg, 50 mg, or 100 mg tablet.(2.1) • A second dose should only be considered if some response to the first dose was observed. (2.1) • Maximum dose in a 24-hour period: 200 mg. Use after sumatriptan injection : If the migraine returns following an initial treatment with sumatriptan succinate injection, additional single sumatriptan tablets (up to 100 mg/day) may be given with an interval of at least 2 hours between tablet doses. 2.2 Dosing in Patients With Hepatic Impairment If treatment is deemed advisable in the presence of mild to moderate hepatic impairment, the maximum single dose should not exceed 50 mg [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For subcutaneous use only. (2.1) Acute treatment of migraine: single dose of 6 mg. (2.1) Acute treatment of cluster headache: single dose of 6 mg. (2.1) Maximum dose in a 24-hour period: 12 mg, separate doses by at least 1 hour. (2.1) 2.1 Dosing Information The maximum single recommended adult dose of sumatriptan injection for the acute treatment of migraine or cluster headache is 6 mg injected subcutaneously. For the treatment of migraine, if side effects are dose limiting, lower doses 4 mg may be used [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The maximum cumulative dose that may be given in 24 hours is 12 mg, two 6-mg injections separated by at least 1 hour. 2.3 Administration Using the Sumatriptan Autoinjector An autoinjector device (Sumatriptan autoinjector) is available for use with 6-mg prefilled syringe to facilitate self-administration in patients using the 6-mg dose. With this device, the needle penetrates approximately 1/4 inch (5 to 6 mm). Instruct patients on the proper use of Sumatriptan autoinjector and direct them to use injection sites with an adequate skin and subcutaneous thickness to accommodate the length of the needle. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Single dose of 25-mg, 50-mg, or 100-mg tablet. ( 2.1 ) A second dose should only be considered if some response to the first dose was observed. ( 2.1 ) Maximum dose in a 24-hour period: 200 mg. ( 2.1 ) Maximum single dose should not exceed 50 mg in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. Doses of 50 mg and 100 mg may provide a greater effect than the 25-mg dose, but doses of 100 mg may not provide a greater effect than the 50-mg dose. 2.2 Dosing in Patients with Hepatic Impairment If treatment is deemed advisable in the presence of mild to moderate hepatic impairment, the maximum single dose should not exceed 50 mg [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Single dose of 25-mg, 50-mg, or 100-mg tablet. ( 2.1 ) • A second dose should only be considered if some response to the first dose was observed.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sumatriptan Injection is contraindicated in patients with: • Ischemic coronary artery disease (CAD) (angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, or documented silent ischemia) or coronary artery vasospasm, including Prinzmetal’s angina [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. • Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. • History of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) or History of hemiplegic or basilar migraine because these patients are at a higher risk of stroke [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. • Peripheral vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. • Ischemic bowel disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. • Uncontrolled hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. • Recent use (i.e., within 24 hours) of ergotamine-containing medication, ergot-type medication (such as dihydroergotamine or methysergide), or another 5-hydroxytryptamine1 (5-HT 1 ) agonist [see Drug Interactions (7.1, 7.3)]. • Concurrent administration of a monoamine oxidase (MAO)-A inhibitor or recent (within 2 weeks) use of an MAO-A inhibitor [see Drug Interactions (7.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. • Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. • Severe hepatic impairment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. • History of coronary artery disease or coronary artery vasospasm (4) • Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders (4) • History of stroke, transient ischemic attack, or hemiplegic or basilar migraine (4) • Peripheral vascular disease (4) • Ischemic bowel disease (4) • Uncontrolled hypertension (4) • Recent (within 24 hours) use of another 5-HT 1 agonist (e.g., another triptan) or of an ergotamine-containing medication (4) • Concurrent or recent (past 2 weeks) use of monoamine oxidase-A inhibitor (4) • Hypersensitivity to Sumatriptan Injection (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) (4) • Severe hepatic impairment (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sumatriptan tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Ischemic coronary artery disease (CAD) (angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, or documented silent ischemia) or coronary artery vasospasm, including Prinzmetal’s angina [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] History of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) or history of hemiplegic or basilar migraine because these patients are at a higher risk of stroke [s ee Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Peripheral vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Ischemic bowel disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Uncontrolled hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Recent use (i.e., within 24 hours) of ergotamine-containing medication, ergot-type medication (such as dihydroergotamine or methysergide), or another 5-hydroxytryptamine 1 (5-HT 1 ) agonist [see Drug Interactions (7.1, 7.3)] Concurrent administration of a monoamine oxidase (MAO)-A inhibitor or recent (within 2 weeks) use of an MAO-A inhibitor [see Drug Interactions (7.2), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] History of coronary artery disease or coronary artery vasospasm (4) Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders (4) History of stroke, transient ischemic attack, or hemiplegic or basilar migraine (4) Peripheral vascular disease (4) Ischemic bowel disease (4) Uncontrolled hypertension (4) Recent (within 24 hours) use of another 5-HT 1 agonist (e.g., another triptan) or of an ergotamine-containing medication (4) Concurrent or recent (past 2 weeks) use of monoamine oxidase-A inhibitor (4) Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) (4) Severe hepatic impairment (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sumatriptan tablets are contraindicated in patients with: • Ischemic coronary artery disease (CAD) (angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, or documented silent ischemia) or coronary artery vasospasm, including Prinzmetal’s angina [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] • Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] • History of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) or history of hemiplegic or basilar migraine because these patients are at a higher risk of stroke [s ee Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] • Peripheral vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] • Ischemic bowel disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] • Uncontrolled hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] • Recent use (i.e., within 24 hours) of ergotamine-containing medication, ergot-type medication (such as dihydroergotamine or methysergide), or another 5-hydroxytryptamine 1 (5-HT 1 ) agonist [see Drug Interactions (7.1, 7.3)] • Concurrent administration of a monoamine oxidase (MAO)-A inhibitor or recent (within 2 weeks) use of an MAO-A inhibitor [see Drug Interactions (7.2), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] • Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] • Severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] • History of coronary artery disease or coronary artery vasospasm (4) • Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders (4) • History of stroke, transient ischemic attack, or hemiplegic or basilar migraine (4) • Peripheral vascular disease (4) • Ischemic bowel disease (4) • Uncontrolled hypertension (4) • Recent (within 24 hours) use of another 5-HT 1 agonist (e.g., another triptan) or of an ergotamine-containing medication (4) • Concurrent or recent (past 2 weeks) use of monoamine oxidase-A inhibitor (4) • Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) (4) • Severe hepatic impairment (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sumatriptan injection is contraindicated in patients with: Ischemic coronary artery disease (CAD) (angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, or documented silent ischemia) or coronary artery vasospasm, including Prinzmetal’s angina [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. History of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) or history of hemiplegic or basilar migraine because these patients are at a higher risk of stroke [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Peripheral vascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Ischemic bowel disease [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Uncontrolled hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Recent use (i.e., within 24 hours) of ergotamine-containing medication, ergot-type medication (such as dihydroergotamine or methysergide), or another 5-hydroxytryptamine1 (5-HT1) agonist [ see Drug Interactions (7.1, 7.3) ]. Concurrent administration of a monoamine oxidase (MAO)-A inhibitor or recent (within 2 weeks) use of an MAO-A inhibitor [ see Drug Interactions (7.2), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan injection (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ]. Severe hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. History of coronary artery disease or coronary artery vasospasm ( 4 ) Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders ( 4 ) History of stroke, transient ischemic attack, or hemiplegic or basilar migraine ( 4 ) Peripheral vascular disease ( 4 ) Ischemic bowel disease ( 4 ) Uncontrolled hypertension ( 4 ) Recent (within 24 hours) use of another 5-HT1 agonist (e.g., another triptan) or of an ergotamine-containing medication ( 4 ) Concurrent or recent (past 2 weeks) use of monoamine oxidase-A inhibitor ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan injection (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) ( 4 ) Severe hepatic impairment ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sumatriptan tablets are contraindicated in patients with: • Ischemic coronary artery disease (CAD) (angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, or documented silent ischemia) or coronary artery vasospasm, including Prinzmetal’s angina [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] • Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] • History of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) or history of hemiplegic or basilar migraine because these patients are at a higher risk of stroke [s ee Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] • Peripheral vascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] • Ischemic bowel disease [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] • Uncontrolled hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] • Recent use (i.e., within 24 hours) of ergotamine-containing medication, ergot-type medication (such as dihydroergotamine or methysergide), or another 5-hydroxytryptamine 1 (5-HT 1 ) agonist [see Drug Interactions (7.1, 7.3) ] • Concurrent administration of a monoamine oxidase (MAO)-A inhibitor or recent (within 2 weeks) use of an MAO-A inhibitor [see Drug Interactions (7.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] • Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan tablets (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] • Severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] • History of coronary artery disease or coronary artery vasospasm ( 4 ) • Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders ( 4 ) • History of stroke, transient ischemic attack, or hemiplegic or basilar migraine ( 4 ) • Peripheral vascular disease ( 4 ) • Ischemic bowel disease ( 4 ) • Uncontrolled hypertension ( 4 ) • Recent (within 24 hours) use of another 5-HT 1 agonist (e.g., another triptan) or of an ergotamine-containing medication. ( 4 ) • Concurrent or recent (past 2 weeks) use of monoamine oxidase-A inhibitor. ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan tablets (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen). ( 4 ) • Severe hepatic impairment. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sumatriptan tablets are contraindicated in patients with: • Ischemic coronary artery disease (CAD) (angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, or documented silent ischemia) or coronary artery vasospasm, including Prinzmetal’s angina [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] • Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] • History of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) or history of hemiplegic or basilar migraine because these patients are at a higher risk of stroke [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] • Peripheral vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] • Ischemic bowel disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] • Uncontrolled hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] • Recent use (i.e., within 24 hours) of ergotamine-containing medication, ergot-type medication (such as dihydroergotamine or methysergide), or another 5-hydroxytryptamine 1 (5-HT 1 ) agonist [see Drug Interactions (7.1, 7.3)] • Concurrent administration of a monoamine oxidase (MAO)-A inhibitor or recent (within 2 weeks) use of an MAO-A inhibitor [see Drug Interactions (7.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] • Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] • Severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] • History of coronary artery disease or coronary artery vasospasm (4) • Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders (4) • History of stroke, transient ischemic attack, or hemiplegic or basilar migraine (4) • Peripheral vascular disease (4) • Ischemic bowel disease (4) • Uncontrolled hypertension (4) • Recent (within 24 hours) use of another 5-HT 1 agonist (e.g., another triptan) or of an ergotamine-containing medication. (4) • Concurrent or recent (past 2 weeks) use of monoamine oxidase-A inhibitor. (4) • Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen). (4) • Severe hepatic impairment. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sumatriptan injection is contraindicated in patients with: Ischemic coronary artery disease (CAD) (angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, or documented silent ischemia) or coronary artery vasospasm, including Prinzmetal's angina [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. History of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) or history of hemiplegic or basilar migraine because these patients are at a higher risk of stroke [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. Peripheral vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Ischemic bowel disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Uncontrolled hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. Recent use (i.e., within 24 hours) of ergotamine-containing medication, ergot-type medication (such as dihydroergotamine or methysergide), or another 5-hydroxytryptamine 1 (5-HT 1 ) agonist [see Drug Interactions (7.1, 7.3)]. Concurrent administration of a monoamine oxidase (MAO)-A inhibitor or recent (within 2 weeks) use of an MAO-A inhibitor [see Drug Interactions (7.2), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan injection (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Severe hepatic impairment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. History of coronary artery disease or coronary artery vasospasm. (4) Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders. (4) History of stroke, transient ischemic attack, or hemiplegic or basilar migraine. (4) Peripheral vascular disease. (4) Ischemic bowel disease. (4) Uncontrolled hypertension. (4) Recent (within 24 hours) use of another 5-HT 1 agonist (e.g., another triptan) or of an ergotamine-containing medication. (4) Concurrent or recent (past 2 weeks) use of monoamine oxidase-A inhibitor. (4) Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan injection (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen). (4) Severe hepatic impairment. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sumatriptan tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Ischemic coronary artery disease (CAD) (angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, or documented silent ischemia) or coronary artery vasospasm, including Prinzmetal’s angina [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] History of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) or history of hemiplegic or basilar migraine because these patients are at a higher risk of stroke [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Peripheral vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] Ischemic bowel disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] Uncontrolled hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] Recent use (i.e., within 24 hours) of ergotamine-containing medication, ergot-type medication (such as dihydroergotamine or methysergide), or another 5-hydroxytryptamine 1 (5-HT 1 ) agonist [see Drug Interactions (7.1 , 7.3) ] Concurrent administration of a monoamine oxidase (MAO)-A inhibitor or recent (within 2 weeks) use of an MAO-A inhibitor [ see Drug Interactions (7.2) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] Severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] History of coronary artery disease or coronary artery vasospasm ( 4 ) Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders ( 4 ) History of stroke, transient ischemic attack, or hemiplegic or basilar migraine ( 4 ) Peripheral vascular disease ( 4 ) Ischemic bowel disease ( 4 ) Uncontrolled hypertension ( 4 ) Recent (within 24 hours) use of another 5-HT 1 agonist (e.g., another triptan) or of an ergotamine-containing medication. ( 4 ) Concurrent or recent (past 2 weeks) use of monoamine oxidase-A inhibitor. ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen). ( 4 ) Severe hepatic impairment. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sumatriptan tablets are contraindicated in patients with: • Ischemic coronary artery disease (CAD) (angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, or documented silent ischemia) or coronary artery vasospasm, including Prinzmetal’s angina [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] • Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] • History of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) or history of hemiplegic or basilar migraine because these patients are at a higher risk of stroke [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] • Peripheral vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] • Ischemic bowel disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] • Uncontrolled hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] • Recent use (i.e., within 24 hours) of ergotamine-containing medication, ergot-type medication (such as dihydroergotamine or methysergide), or another 5-hydroxytryptamine 1 (5-HT 1 ) agonist [see Drug Interactions (7.1 , 7.3) ] • Concurrent administration of a monoamine oxidase (MAO)-A inhibitor or recent (within 2 weeks) use of an MAO-A inhibitor [ see Drug Interactions (7.2) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] • Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] • Severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] • History of coronary artery disease or coronary artery vasospasm ( 4 ) • Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders ( 4 ) • History of stroke, transient ischemic attack, or hemiplegic or basilar migraine ( 4 ) • Peripheral vascular disease ( 4 ) • Ischemic bowel disease ( 4 ) • Uncontrolled hypertension ( 4 ) • Recent (within 24 hours) use of another 5-HT 1 agonist (e.g., another triptan) or of an ergotamine-containing medication ( 4 ) • Concurrent or recent (past 2 weeks) use of monoamine oxidase-A inhibitor ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) ( 4 ) • Severe hepatic impairment ( 4 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Ergot-Containing Drugs Ergot-containing drugs have been reported to cause prolonged vasospastic reactions. Because these effects may be additive, use of ergotamine-containing or ergot-type medications (like dihydroergotamine or methysergide) and sumatriptan injection within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated. 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase-A Inhibitors MAO-A inhibitors increase systemic exposure by 2-fold. Therefore, the use of Sumatriptan injection in patients receiving MAO-A inhibitors is contraindicated [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.3 Other 5-HT 1 Agonists Because their vasospastic effects may be additive, coadministration of Sumatriptan injection and other 5-HT 1 agonists (e.g., triptans) within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated. 7.4 Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors /Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during coadministration of triptans and SSRIs, SNRIs, TCAs, and MAO inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Because these effects may be additive, use of ergotamine-containing or ergot-type medications (like dihydroergotamine or methysergide) and sumatriptan tablets within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated. 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase-A Inhibitors MAO‑A inhibitors increase systemic exposure by 7 fold. Therefore, the use of sumatriptan tablets in patients receiving MAO‑A inhibitors is contraindicated [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7.3 Other 5-HT 1 Agonists Because their vasospastic effects may be additive, coadministration of sumatriptan tablets and other 5‑HT 1 agonists (e.g., triptans) within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated. 7.4 Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors/Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during coadministration of triptans and SSRIs, SNRIs, TCAs, and MAO inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] . Therefore, the use of sumatriptan injection in patients receiving MAO-A inhibitors is contraindicated [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 7.3 Other 5-HT 1 Agonists Because their vasospastic effects may be additive, co-administration of sumatriptan injection and other 5-HT 1 agonists (e.g., triptans) within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated. 7.4 Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors/Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during co-administration of triptans and SSRIs, SNRIs, TCAs, and MAO inhibitors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) ]. 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase-A Inhibitors MAO-A inhibitors increase systemic exposure by 7-fold. Therefore, the use of sumatriptan tablets in patients receiving MAO-A inhibitors is contraindicated [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.3 Other 5-HT 1 Agonists Because their vasospastic effects may be additive, co-administration of sumatriptan tablets and other 5-HT 1 agonists (e.g., triptans) within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated. 7.4 Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors/Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during co-administration of triptans and SSRIs, SNRIs, TCAs, and MAO inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . Therefore, the use of sumatriptan tablets in patients receiving MAO-A inhibitors is contraindicated [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7.4 Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors/Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during co-administration of triptans and SSRIs, SNRIs, TCAs, and MAO inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] . Therefore, the use of sumatriptan injection in patients receiving MAO-A inhibitors is contraindicated [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7.3 Other 5-HT1 Agonists Because their vasospastic effects may be additive, coadministration of sumatriptan injection and other 5-HT 1 agonists (e.g., triptans) within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated. 7.3 Other 5-HT 1 Agonists Because their vasospastic effects may be additive, coadministration of sumatriptan tablets and other 5-HT 1 agonists (e.g., triptans) within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated. 7.4 Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors/Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during coadministration of triptans and SSRIs, SNRIs, TCAs, and MAO inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] .

=== TRANEXAMIC ACID ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tranexamic acid injection, USP is indicated in patients with hemophilia for short-term use (2 to 8 days) to reduce or prevent hemorrhage and reduce the need for replacement therapy during and following tooth extraction. Tranexamic acid injection is an antifibrinolytic indicated in patients with hemophilia for short-term use (2 to 8 days) to reduce or prevent hemorrhage and reduce the need for replacement therapy during and following tooth extraction. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tranexamic acid injection is indicated in patients with hemophilia for short-term use (2 to 8 days) to reduce or prevent hemorrhage and reduce the need for replacement therapy during and following tooth extraction. Tranexamic acid is an antifibrinolytic indicated in patients with hemophilia for short-term use (2 to 8 days) to reduce or prevent hemorrhage and reduce the need for replacement therapy during and following tooth extraction. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tranexamic acid USP tablets are indicated for the treatment of cyclic heavy menstrual bleeding in females of reproductive potential [see Clinical Studies (14) ]. Tranexamic acid USP tablets is an antifibrinolytic indicated for the treatment of cyclic heavy menstrual bleeding in females of reproductive potential. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tranexamic acid tablets are indicated for the treatment of cyclic heavy menstrual bleeding in females of reproductive potential [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. Tranexamic acid tablets are an antifibrinolytic indicated for the treatment of cyclic heavy menstrual bleeding in females of reproductive potential. (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tranexamic Acid in Sodium Chloride Injection is indicated in patients with hemophilia for short-term use (two to eight days) to reduce or prevent hemorrhage and reduce the need for replacement therapy during and following tooth extraction. Tranexamic Acid in Sodium Chloride Injection is an antifibrinolytic indicated in patients with hemophilia for short-term use (two to eight days) to reduce or prevent hemorrhage and reduce the need for replacement therapy during and following tooth extraction ( 1 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tranexamic acid tablets are indicated for the treatment of cyclic heavy menstrual bleeding in females of reproductive potential [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] Tranexamic acid tablets are an antifibrinolytic indicated for the treatment of cyclic heavy menstrual bleeding in females of reproductive potential. Tranexamic acid injection is an antifibrinolytic indicated in patients with hemophilia for short-term use (2 to 8 days) to reduce or prevent hemorrhage and reduce the need for replacement therapy during and following tooth extraction.( 1 )
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Before Extraction: Administer 10 mg/kg actual body weight of tranexamic acid injection intravenously with replacement therapy. ( 2.1 ) After Extraction: Administer 10 mg/kg actual body weight 3 to 4 times daily for 2 to 8 days. Infuse no more than 1 mL/minute to avoid hypotension. ( 2.1 ) Reduce the dosage for patients with renal impairment. ( 2.2 , 8.6 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dose of tranexamic acid injection is 10 mg/kg actual body weight intravenously administered as a single-dose, immediately before tooth extractions. Infuse no more than 1 mL/minute to avoid hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Following tooth extraction, tranexamic acid injection may be administered for 2 to 8 days at a dose of 10 mg/kg actual body weight 3 to 4 times daily, intravenously. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. For intravenous infusion, tranexamic acid injection may be mixed with most solutions for infusion such as electrolyte solutions, carbohydrate solutions, amino acid solutions, and Dextran solutions. Heparin may be added to tranexamic acid injection. Tranexamic acid injection should NOT be mixed with blood. The drug is a synthetic amino acid and should NOT be mixed with solutions containing penicillin. Discard any unused portion. The diluted mixture may be stored for up to 4 hours at room temperature prior to patient administration. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Patients With Varying Degrees of Renal Impairment * For patients with moderate to severe impaired renal function, the following dosages are recommended: Table 1: Recommended Dosage in Patients With Varying Degrees of Renal Impairment * Dose reduction is recommended for all doses, both before and after tooth extraction. Serum Creatinine (mg/dL) Tranexamic Acid Intravenous Dosage 1.36 to 2.83 (120 to 250 micromol/L) 10 mg/kg twice daily 2.83 to 5.66 (250 to 500 micromol/L) 10 mg/kg daily >5.66 (>500 micromol/L) 10 mg/kg every 48 hours or 5 mg/kg every 24 hours Serum Creatinine (mg/dL) Tranexamic Acid Injection Intravenous Dosage 1.36 to 2.83 (120 to 250 micromol/L) 10 mg/kg twice daily 2.83 to 5.66 (250 to 500 micromol/L) 10 mg/kg daily >5.66 (>500 micromol/L) 10 mg/kg every 48 hours or 5 mg/kg every 24 hours 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 1,300 mg three times a day (3,900 mg/day) for a maximum of 5 days during monthly menstruation ( 2.1 ) Renal impairment: Lower dosage is needed (for a maximum of 5 days during menstruation) if serum creatinine concentration (Cr) is higher than 1.4 mg/dL ( 2.2 ) Cr above 1.4 mg/dL and ≤ 2.8 mg/dL: 1,300 mg two times a day (2,600 mg/day) Cr above 2.8 mg/dL and ≤ 5.7 mg/dL: 1,300 mg once a day (1,300 mg/day) Cr above 5.7 mg/dL: 650 mg once a day (650 mg/day) 2.1 Recommended Testing Prior to Tranexamic Acid USP Tablets Administration Prior to prescribing tranexamic acid USP tablets, exclude endometrial pathology that can be associated with heavy menstrual bleeding. 2.2 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage of tranexamic acid USP tablets for patients with normal renal function is 1300 mg orally three times daily (3900 mg/day) for a maximum of 5 days during monthly menstruation. Tranexamic acid USP tablets may be administered with or without food. Swallow tablets whole; do not chew or break apart. 2.3 Dosage Recommendations in Patients with Renal Impairment The recommended dosage (for a maximum of 5 days during monthly menstruation) in patients with renal impairment with serum creatinine concentration higher than 1.4 mg/dL is described in Table 1. Table 1. Recommended Dosage of Tranexamic Acid USP Tablets in Patients with Renal Impairment Serum Creatinine (mg/dL) Recommended Dosage (maximum of 5 days during menstruation) Total Daily Dose Above 1.4 and ≤ 2.8 1300 mg two times a day 2600 mg Above 2.8 and ≤ 5.7 1300 mg once a day 1300 mg Above 5.7 650 mg once a day 650 mg 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 1,300 mg three times a day (3,900 mg/day) for a maximum of 5 days during monthly menstruation ( 2.1 ) Renal impairment : Lower dosage is needed (for a maximum of 5 days during menstruation) if serum creatinine concentration (Cr) is higher than 1.4 mg/dL ( 2.2 ) Cr above 1.4 mg/dL and ≤ 2.8 mg/dL: 1,300 mg two times a day (2,600 mg/day) Cr above 2.8 mg/dL and ≤ 5.7 mg/dL: 1,300 mg once a day (1,300 mg/day) Cr above 5.7 mg/dL: 650 mg once a day (650 mg/day) 2.1 Recommended Testing Prior to Tranexamic Acid Tablets Administration Prior to prescribing tranexamic acid tablets, exclude endometrial pathology that can be associated with heavy menstrual bleeding. 2.2 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage of tranexamic acid tablets for patients with normal renal function is 1300 mg orally three times daily (3900 mg/day) for a maximum of 5 days during monthly menstruation. Tranexamic acid tablets may be administered with or without food. Recommended Dosage of Tranexamic Acid Tablets in Patients with Renal Impairment Serum Creatinine (mg/dL) Recommended Dosage (maximum of 5 days during menstruation) Total Daily Dose Above 1.4 and ≤ 2.8 1300 mg two times a day 2600 mg Above 2.8 and ≤ 5.7 1300 mg once a day 1300 mg Above 5.7 650 mg once a day 650 mg 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Before Extraction: Administer 10 mg/kg actual body weight of Tranexamic Acid in Sodium Chloride Injection intravenously with replacement therapy. After Extraction: Administer 10 mg/kg actual body weight 3 to 4 times daily for 2 to 8 days. Infuse no more than 10 mL/minute to avoid hypotension ( 2.1 ). Reduce the dosage for patients with renal impairment ( 2.2 , 8.6 ). 2.1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dose of Tranexamic Acid in Sodium Chloride Injection is 10 mg/kg actual body weight intravenously administered as a single dose, immediately before tooth extractions. Infuse no more than 10 mL/minute to avoid hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Following tooth extraction, Tranexamic Acid in Sodium Chloride Injection may be administered for 2 to 8 days at a dose of 10 mg/kg actual body weight three to four times daily, intravenously. Do not use Tranexamic Acid in Sodium Chloride Injection if particulate matter or coloration is seen. Tranexamic Acid in Sodium Chloride Injection should NOT be mixed with blood. The premix flexible plastic container bag contains no preservative; discard any unused portion. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Patients with Varying Degrees of Renal Impairment* For patients with moderate to severe impaired renal function, the following dosages are recommended: Table 1. Recommended Dosage in Patients with Varying Degrees of Renal Impairment *Dose reduction is recommended for all doses, both before and after tooth extraction. Serum Creatinine (mg/dL) Tranexamic Acid in Sodium Chloride Injection Intravenous Dosage 1.36 to 2.83 (120 to 250 micromol/L) 10 mg/kg twice daily 2.83 to 5.66 (250 to 500 micromol/L) 10 mg/kg daily >5.66 (>500 micromol/L) 10 mg/kg every 48 hours or 5 mg/kg every 24 hours INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE: Check solution container composition, lot number, and expiry date. Do not admix with other drugs. Do not use solution containers in series connections. Do not remove solution container from its overwrap until immediately before use. The intact port cap provides visual tamper evidence. Do not use if a port cap is prematurely removed. Maintain strict aseptic technique during handling. To Open: Always inspect the solution container before and after removal from the overwrap. Place the solution container on a clean, flat surface. Remove the solution container from the overwrap. Check the solution container for leaks by squeezing firmly. If leaks are found discard. Do not use if the solution is cloudy or a precipitate is present. To Prepare for Administration: Immediately before inserting the infusion set, break off BLUE Infusion Port Cap with the arrow pointing away from the solution container. Use a non-vented infusion set or close the air-inlet on a vented set. Close the roller clamp of the infusion set. Hold the base of the BLUE Infusion Port., twist and push spike until fully inserted. The BLUE Infusion Port contains a self-sealing septum that helps prevent leakage after removing the spike. The infusion port is not intended to be spiked more than once. Suspend solution container from hanger hole. For Single Use Only. Discard unused portion. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 1,300 mg three times a day (3,900 mg/day) for a maximum of 5 days during monthly menstruation ( 2.1 ) Renal impairment: Lower dosage is needed (for a maximum of 5 days during menstruation) if serum creatinine concentration (Cr) is higher than 1.4 mg/dL ( 2.2 ) Cr above 1.4 mg/dL and ≤ 2.8 mg/dL: 1,300 mg two times a day (2,600 mg/day) Cr above 2.8 mg/dL and ≤ 5.7 mg/dL: 1,300 mg once a day (1,300 mg/day) Cr above 5.7 mg/dL: 650 mg once a day (650 mg/day) 2.1 Recommended Testing Prior to Tranexamic Acid Tablets Administration Prior to prescribing tranexamic acid tablets, exclude endometrial pathology that can be associated with heavy menstrual bleeding. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Before Extraction: Administer 10 mg/kg actual body weight of tranexamic acid injection intravenously with replacement therapy as a single-dose. ( 2.1 ) After Extraction: Administer 10 mg/kg actual body weight of tranexamic acid injection intravenously 3 to 4 times daily for 2 to 8 days. ( 2.1 ) Infuse undiluted solution no more than 1 mL/minute to avoid hypotension. ( 2.3 ). Reduce the dosage for patients with renal impairment. ( 2.2 , 8.6 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dose of tranexamic acid injection is 10 mg/kg actual body weight administered as a single intravenous dose immediately before tooth extractions. Following tooth extraction, tranexamic acid injection may be administered at a dose of 10 mg/kg actual body weight intravenously 3 to 4 times daily for 2 to 8 days. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Patients with Varying Degrees of Renal Impairment For patients with moderate to severe impaired renal function, the following dosages are recommended: Table 1. Recommended Dosage in Patients with Varying Degrees of Renal Impairment* Serum Creatinine (mg/dL) Tranexamic Acid Injection Dosage 1.36 mg/dL to 2.83 mg/dL 10 mg/kg intravenously twice daily 2.83 mg/dL to 5.66 mg/dL 10 mg/kg intravenously daily >5.66 mg/dL 10 mg/kg intravenously every 48 hours or 5 mg/kg intravenously every 24 hours * Dose reduction is recommended for all doses, both before and after tooth extraction. 2.3 Preparation and Administration Tranexamic acid injection is for intravenous administration only. Tranexamic acid injection can be administered undiluted or as a diluted solution. Use aseptic technique to prepare tranexamic acid injection. Tranexamic acid injection is a clear and colorless solution. Discard the vial if particulate matter is observed. Calculate the dose (mg) based on the patient’s actual body weight and the total volume (mL) of tranexamic acid injection solution required. If diluting tranexamic acid injection ​, follow the instructions below: From the diluent infusion bag, withdraw a volume equal to the volume of the tranexamic acid injection solution required for the patient’s dose. Withdraw the required volume of tranexamic acid injection solution from the vial and dilute with a compatible diluent (see below) to make a final concentration of 10 mg/mL or 20 mg/mL. Discard any unused portion left in the vial. o For intravenous infusion, tranexamic acid injection may be mixed with most solutions for infusion such as electrolyte solutions, carbohydrate solutions, amino acid solutions, and Dextran solutions. o Heparin may be added to tranexamic acid injection. o Tranexamic acid injection should NOT be mixed with blood. o The drug is a synthetic amino acid and should NOT be mixed with solutions containing penicillin. Gently invert the infusion bag to mix the diluted solution. DO NOT SHAKE. If not used immediately, store the diluted tranexamic acid injection infusion solution at room temperature 20ºC to 25°C (68ºF to 77°F) for up to 4 hours. Administration Infuse undiluted solution no more than 1 mL/minute to avoid hypotension [ see Adverse Reaction (6.2) ] . Administer the undiluted and diluted solutions intravenously according to Table 2. Table 2. Administration Rates for Undiluted and Diluted Solutions Undiluted solution Diluted solution Final concentration 100 mg/mL 10 mg/mL 20 mg/mL Administration rate 0.5 mL/minute (no more than 1 mL/minute) 5 mL/minute 2.5 mL/minute ( 2.2 , 8.6 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dose of tranexamic acid injection is 10 mg/kg actual body weight intravenously administered as a single dose, immediately before tooth extractions Infuse no more than 1 mL/minute to avoid hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Patients with Varying Degrees of Renal Impairment * For patients with moderate to severe impaired renal function, the following dosages are recommended: Table 1. Recommended Dosage in Patients with Varying Degrees of Renal Impairment Serum Creatinine (mg/dL) Tranexamic Acid Injection Intravenous Dosage *Dose reduction is recommended for all doses, both before and after tooth extraction. 1.36 to 2.83 (120 to 250 micromol/L) 10 mg/kg twice daily 2.83 to 5.66 (250 to 500 micromol/L) 10 mg/kg daily >5.66 (>500 micromol/L) 10 mg/kg every 48 hours or 5 mg/kg every 24 hours (2.3) Reduce the dosage for patients with renal impairment. Recommended Dosage in Patients With Varying Degrees of Renal Impairment* *Dose reduction is recommended for all doses, both before and after tooth extraction. Serum Creatinine (mg/dL) Tranexamic Acid Injection Dosage 1.36 mg/dL to 2.8 3 mg/dL 10 mg/kg intravenously twice daily 2.83 mg/ dL to 5.66 mg/dL 10 mg/kg intravenously daily >5.66 mg/dL 10 mg/kg intravenously every 48 hours or 5 mg/kg intravenously every 24 hours 2.3 Preparation and Administration Tranexamic acid injection is for intravenous administration only. Calculate the dose (mg) based on the patient’s actual body weight and the total volume (mL) of tranexamic acid solution required. If diluting tranexamic acid injection , follow the instructions below: From the diluent infusion bag, withdraw a volume equal to the volume of the tranexamic acid solution required for the patient’s dose. Withdraw the required volume of tranexamic acid solution from the vial and dilute with a compatible diluent (see below) to make a final concentration of 10 mg/mL or 20 mg/mL. ○ For intravenous infusion, tranexamic acid injection may be mixed with most solutions for infusion such as electrolyte solutions, carbohydrate solutions, amino acid solutions, and Dextran solutions. ○ Heparin may be added to tranexamic acid injection. ○ Tranexamic acid injection should NOT be mixed with blood. ○ The drug is a synthetic amino acid and should NOT be mixed with solutions containing penicillin. If not used immediately, store the diluted tranexamic acid infusion solution at room temperature 20ºC to 25°C (68ºF to 77°F) for up to 4 hours. Administration Infuse undiluted solution no more than 1 mL/minute to avoid hypotension [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . (2.1) After Extraction: Administer 10 mg/kg actual body weight of tranexamic acid injection intravenously 3 to 4 times daily for 2 to 8 days. (2.1) Infuse undiluted solution no more than 1 mL/minute to avoid hypotension. (2.2, 8.6) 2.1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dose of tranexamic acid injection is 10 mg/kg actual body weight administered as a single intravenous dose immediately before tooth extractions. Recommended Dosage in Patients With Varying Degrees of Renal Impairment* * Dose reduction is recommended for all doses, both before and after tooth extraction. Serum Creatinine (mg/dL) Tranexamic Acid Dosage 1.36 mg/dL to 2.83 mg/dL 10 mg/kg intravenously twice daily 2.83 mg/dL to 5.66 mg/dL 10 mg/kg intravenously daily >5.66 mg/dL 10 mg/kg intravenously every 48 hours or 5 mg/kg intravenously every 24 hours 2.3 Preparation and Administration Tranexamic acid injection is for intravenous administration only. Calculate the dose (mg) based on the patients actual body weight and the total volume (mL) of tranexamic acid injection solution required. If diluting tranexamic acid injection, follow the instructions below: From the diluent infusion bag, withdraw a volume equal to the volume of the tranexamic acid injection solution required for the patients dose. Heparin may be added to tranexamic acid injection Tranexamic acid injection should NOT be mixed with blood. Administration Infuse undiluted solution no more than 1 mL/minute to avoid hypotension [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)] .
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tranexamic acid injection, USP is contraindicated: In patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage. Anecdotal experience indicates that cerebral edema and cerebral infarction may be caused by tranexamic acid injection in such patients. In patients with active intravascular clotting [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . In patients with hypersensitivity to tranexamic acid or any of the ingredients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . In patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage, due to risk of cerebral edema and cerebral infarction. ( 4 ) In patients with active intravascular clotting. ( 4 ) In patients with severe hypersensitivity reactions to tranexamic acid or any of the ingredients. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tranexamic acid injection is contraindicated: In patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Concomitant use of combined hormonal contraceptives ( 4.1 ) Active thromboembolic disease or a history or intrinsic risk of thrombosis or thromboembolism, including retinal vein or artery occlusion ( 4.1 ) Hypersensitivity to tranexamic acid ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Thromboembolic Risk Tranexamic acid USP tablets are contraindicated in females of reproductive potential who are [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]: Using combined hormonal contraception Known to have any of the following conditions: Active thromboembolic disease (e.g., deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, or cerebral thrombosis) A history of thrombosis or thromboembolism, including retinal vein or artery occlusion An intrinsic risk of thrombosis or thromboembolism (e.g., thrombogenic valvular disease, thrombogenic cardiac rhythm disease, or hypercoagulopathy) 4.2 Hypersensitivity to Tranexamic Acid Tranexamic acid USP tablets are contraindicated in females with reproductive potential with known hypersensitivity to tranexamic acid [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Concomitant use of combined hormonal contraceptives ( 4.1 ) Active thromboembolic disease or a history or intrinsic risk of thrombosis or thromboembolism, including retinal vein or artery occlusion ( 4.1 ) Hypersensitivity to tranexamic acid ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Thromboembolic Risk Tranexamic acid tablets are contraindicated in females of reproductive potential who are [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]: Using combined hormonal contraception Known to have any of the following conditions: Active thromboembolic disease (e.g., deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, or cerebral thrombosis) A history of thrombosis or thromboembolism, including retinal vein or artery occlusion An intrinsic risk of thrombosis or thromboembolism (e.g., thrombogenic valvular disease, thrombogenic cardiac rhythm disease, or hypercoagulopathy) 4.2 Hypersensitivity to Tranexamic Acid Tranexamic acid tablets are contraindicated in females with reproductive potential with known hypersensitivity to tranexamic acid [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tranexamic Acid in Sodium Chloride Injection is contraindicated: In patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage. Anecdotal experience indicates that cerebral edema and cerebral infarction may be caused by tranexamic acid in such patients. In patients with hypersensitivity to tranexamic acid or any of the ingredients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . In patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage, due to risk of cerebral edema and cerebral infarction ( 4 ). In patients with active intravascular clotting ( 4 ). In patients with severe hypersensitivity reactions to tranexamic acid or any of the ingredients ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Active thromboembolic disease or a history or intrinsic risk of thrombosis or thromboembolism, including retinal vein or artery occlusion ( 4.1 ) Hypersensitivity to tranexamic acid ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Thromboembolic Risk Tranexamic acid tablets are contraindicated in females of reproductive potential who are [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] : Using combined hormonal contraception Known to have any of the following conditions: Active thromboembolic disease (e.g., deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, or cerebral thrombosis) A history of thrombosis or thromboembolism, including retinal vein or artery occlusion An intrinsic risk of thrombosis or thromboembolism (e.g., thrombogenic valvular disease, thrombogenic cardiac rhythm disease, or hypercoagulopathy) 4.2 Hypersensitivity to Tranexamic Acid Tranexamic acid tablets are contraindicated in females with reproductive potential with known hypersensitivity to tranexamic acid [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tranexamic acid injection is contraindicated: As a neuraxial (i.e., intrathecal, epidural) injection [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. In patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage. In patients with active intravascular clotting [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. In patients with hypersensitivity to tranexamic acid or any of the ingredients [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. As a neuraxial (i.e., intrathecal, epidural) injection. ( 4 ) In patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage, due to risk of cerebral edema and cerebral infarction. In patients with active intravascular clotting [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . In patients with hypersensitivity to tranexamic acid or any of the ingredients [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tranexamic acid is contraindicated: As a neuraxial (i.e., intrathecal, epidural) injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . In patients with active intravascular clotting [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . In patients with hypersensitivity to tranexamic acid or any of the ingredients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . (4) In patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage, due to risk of cerebral edema and cerebral infarction. (4) In patients with active intravascular clotting. (4) In patients with severe hypersensitivity reactions to tranexamic acid or any of the ingredients. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tranexamic acid injection, USP is contraindicated: As a neuraxial (i.e., intrathecal, epidural) injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. In patients with active intravascular clotting [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5. 2 )] . In patients with hypersensitivity to tranexamic acid or any of the ingredients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )].
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Prothrombotic Medical Products: Avoid concomitant use, can further increase the risk of thromboembolic adverse reactions associated with tranexamic acid. ( 5.1 , 7.1 , 8.3 ) 7.1 Prothrombotic Medical Products Avoid concomitant use of tranexamic acid injection with medical products that are prothrombotic because concomitant use can further increase the risk of thromboembolic adverse reactions associated with tranexamic acid [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.3 )] . ( 5.1 , 7.1 , 8.3 ) 7.1 Prothrombotic Medical Products Avoid concomitant use of tranexamic acid with medical products that are prothrombotic because concomitant use can further increase the risk of thromboembolic adverse reactions associated with tranexamic acid [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.3 )] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with tranexamic acid USP tablets. Concomitant therapy with tissue plasminogen activators may decrease the efficacy of both tranexamic acid USP tablets and tissue plasminogen activators. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Combined Hormonal Contraceptives Because tranexamic acid USP tablets are antifibrinolytic, concomitant use of combined hormonal contraception and tranexamic acid USP tablets may increase the thrombotic risk associated with combined hormonal contraceptives. For this reason, concomitant use of tranexamic acid USP tablets with combined hormonal contraceptives is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 7.2 Tissue Plasminogen Activators Concomitant therapy with tissue plasminogen activators may decrease the efficacy of both tranexamic acid USP tablets and tissue plasminogen activators. Discontinue tranexamic acid USP tablets if a patient requires tissue plasminogen activators. 7.3 Factor I X Complex Concentrates or Anti-Inhibitor Coagulant Concentrates Tranexamic acid USP tablets are not recommended in patients taking either Factor I X complex concentrates or anti-inhibitor coagulant concentrates because the risk of thrombosis may be increased [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7.4 All-Trans Retinoic Acid (Oral Tretinoin) Tranexamic acid USP tablets are not recommended in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia taking all-trans retinoic acid for remission induction because of possible exacerbation of the procoagulant effect of all-trans retinoic acid [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with tranexamic acid tablets. Concomitant therapy with tissue plasminogen activators may decrease the efficacy of both tranexamic acid tablets and tissue plasminogen activators. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Combined Hormonal Contraceptives Because tranexamic acid tablets are antifibrinolytic, concomitant use of combined hormonal contraception and tranexamic acid tablets may increase the thrombotic risk associated with combined hormonal contraceptives. For this reason, concomitant use of tranexamic acid tablets with combined hormonal contraceptives is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. 7.2 Tissue Plasminogen Activators Concomitant therapy with tissue plasminogen activators may decrease the efficacy of both tranexamic acid tablets and tissue plasminogen activators. Discontinue tranexamic acid tablets if a patient requires tissue plasminogen activators. 7.3 Factor IX Complex Concentrates or Anti-Inhibitor Coagulant Concentrates Tranexamic acid tablets are not recommended in patients taking either Factor IX complex concentrates or anti-inhibitor coagulant concentrates because the risk of thrombosis may be increased [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) 7.4 All-Trans Retinoic Acid (Oral Tretinoin) Tranexamic acid tablets are not recommended in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia taking all-trans retinoic acid for remission induction because of possible exacerbation of the procoagulant effect of all-trans retinoic acid [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Prothrombotic Medical Products: Avoid concomitant use, can further increase the risk of thromboembolic adverse reactions associated with tranexamic acid ( 5.1 , 7.1 , 8.3 ). 7.1 Prothrombotic Medical Products Avoid concomitant use of Tranexamic Acid in Sodium Chloride Injection with medical products that are prothrombotic because concomitant use can further increase the risk of thromboembolic adverse reactions associated with tranexamic acid [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.3 )]. For this reason, concomitant use of tranexamic acid tablets with combined hormonal contraceptives is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. 7.3 Factor IX Complex Concentrates or Anti-Inhibitor Coagulant Concentrates Tranexamic acid tablets are not recommended in patients taking either Factor IX complex concentrates or anti-inhibitor coagulant concentrates because the risk of thrombosis may be increased [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . 7.4 All-Trans Retinoic Acid (Oral Tretinoin) Tranexamic acid tablets are not recommended in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia taking all-trans retinoic acid for remission induction because of possible exacerbation of the procoagulant effect of all-trans retinoic acid [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . ( 5.2 , 7.1 , 8.3 ) See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION. 7.1 Prothrombotic Medical Products Avoid concomitant use of tranexamic acid injection with medical products that are prothrombotic because concomitant use can further increase the risk of thromboembolic adverse reactions associated with tranexamic acid [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Use in Specific Populations (8.3) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Prothrombotic Medical Products: Avoid concomitant use, can further increase the risk of thromboembolic adverse reactions associated with tranexamic acid injection. ( 5.1 , 7.1 , 8.3 ) 7.1 Prothrombotic Medical Products Avoid concomitant use of tranexamic acid injection with medical products that are prothrombotic because concomitant use can further increase the risk of thromboembolic adverse reactions associated with tranexamic acid [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.3) ] . ( 5.2, 7.1, 8.3 ) 7.1 Prothrombotic Medical Products Avoid concomitant use of tranexamic acid with medical products that are prothrombotic because concomitant use can further increase the risk of thromboembolic adverse reactions associated with tranexamic acid [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.3) ] . ( 5. 2, 7.1 , 8.3 ) 7.1 Prothrombotic Medical Products Avoid concomitant use of tranexamic acid injection with medical products that are prothrombotic because concomitant use can further increase the risk of thromboembolic adverse reactions associated with tranexamic acid [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5. 2), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.3 )] .

=== VALSARTAN AND HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes, including hydrochlorothiazide and the angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) class to which valsartan principally belongs. There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality have also been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (e.g., patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. Add-On Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be used in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on monotherapy. Replacement Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be substituted for the titrated components. Initial Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be used as initial therapy in patients who are likely to need multiple drugs to achieve blood pressure goals. The choice of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as initial therapy for hypertension should be based on an assessment of potential benefits and risks. Patients with stage 2 hypertension are at a relatively high risk for cardiovascular events (such as strokes, heart attacks, and heart failure), kidney failure, and vision problems, so prompt treatment is clinically relevant. The decision to use a combination as initial therapy should be individualized and should be shaped by considerations such as baseline blood pressure, the target goal, and the incremental likelihood of achieving goal with a combination compared to monotherapy. Individual blood pressure goals may vary based upon the patient’s risk. Data from the high dose multifactorial trial [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] provides estimates of the probability of reaching a target blood pressure with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets compared to valsartan or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy. The figures below provide estimates of the likelihood of achieving systolic or diastolic blood pressure control with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 320 mg/25 mg, based upon baseline systolic or diastolic blood pressure. The curve of each treatment group was estimated by logistic regression modeling. The estimated likelihood at the right tail of each curve is less reliable due to small numbers of subjects with high baseline blood pressures. Figure 1: Probability of Achieving Systolic Blood Pressure <140 mmHg at Week 8 Figure 2: Probability of Achieving Diastolic Blood Pressure <90 mmHg at Week 8 Figure 3: Probability of Achieving Systolic Blood Pressure <130 mmHg at Week 8 Figure 4: Probability of Achieving Diastolic Blood Pressure <80 mmHg at Week 8 For example, a patient with a baseline blood pressure of 160/100 mmHg has about a 41% likelihood of achieving a goal of < 140 mmHg (systolic) and 60% likelihood of achieving < 90 mmHg (diastolic) on valsartan alone and the likelihood of achieving these goals on HCTZ alone is about 50% (systolic) or 57% (diastolic). The likelihood of achieving these goals on valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets rises to about 84% (systolic) or 80% (diastolic). The likelihood of achieving these goals on placebo is about 23% (systolic) or 36% (diastolic). Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablet is the combination tablet of valsartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ), a diuretic. Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure: In patients not adequately controlled with monotherapy. (1) As initial therapy in patients likely to need multiple drugs to achieve their blood pressure goals. (1) Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. Figure 1 Figure 2 Figure 3 Figure 4 The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension e.g., patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Replacement Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tabletsmay be substituted for the titrated components. The decision to use a combination as initial therapy should be individualized and should be shaped by considerations such as baseline blood pressure, the target goal and the incremental likelihood of achieving goal with a combination compared to monotherapy. Individual blood pressure goals may vary based upon the patient's risk. Data from the high dose multifactorial trial [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] provides estimates of the probability of reaching a target blood pressure with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets compared to valsartan or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy. The figures below provide estimates of the likelihood of achieving systolic or diastolic blood pressure control with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 320/25 mg, based upon baseline systolic or diastolic blood pressure. For example, a patient with a baseline blood pressure of 160/100 mmHg has about a 41% likelihood of achieving a goal of <140 mmHg (systolic) and 60% likelihood of achieving <90 mmHg (diastolic) on valsartan alone and the likelihood of achieving these goals on HCTZ alone is about 50% (systolic) or 57% (diastolic). Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are combination of valsartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ), a diuretic. Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure: In patients not adequately controlled with monotherapy ( 1 ) As initial therapy in patients likely to need multiple drugs to achieve their blood pressure goals ( 1 ). Figure 1 Figure 2-3-4 Many patients will require more than 1 drug to achieve blood pressure goals. Data from the high dose multifactorial trial [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1)] provides estimates of the probability of reaching a target blood pressure with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets compared to valsartan or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy. Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are the combination tablet of valsartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ), a diuretic. Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure : • In patients not adequately controlled with monotherapy ( 1 ) • As initial therapy in patients likely to need multiple drugs to achieve their blood pressure goals ( 1 ) Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. figure-1 figure-2 figure-3 figure-4 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Exforge HCT (amlodipine, valsartan, and hydrochlorothiazide) is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes, including amlodipine, hydrochlorothiazide, and the angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) class to which valsartan principally belongs. There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with Exforge HCT. Limitations of Use Exforge HCT is not indicated for the initial therapy of hypertension [see Dosage and Administration (2)] . Exforge HCT is a combination tablet of amlodipine, a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker (DHP CCB), valsartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB), and hydrochlorothiazide, a thiazide diuretic. Exforge HCT is indicated for the treatment of hypertension to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes, and myocardial infarctions. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use Exforge HCT is not indicated for initial treatment of hypertension. ( 1 ) Add-On Therapy: Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be used in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on monotherapy. Replacement Therapy: Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be substituted for the titrated components. Initial Therapy: Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be used as initial therapy in patients who are likely to need multiple drugs to achieve blood pressure goals. Figure 1: Probability of Achieving Systolic Blood Pressure < 140 mmHg at Week 8 Figure 2: Probability of Achieving Diastolic Blood Pressure < 90 mmHg at Week 8 Figure 3: Probability of Achieving Systolic Blood Pressure < 130 mmHg at Week 8 Figure 4: Probability of Achieving Diastolic Blood Pressure < 80 mmHg at Week 8 For example, a patient with a baseline blood pressure of 160/100 mmHg has about a 41% likelihood of achieving a goal of < 140 mmHg (systolic) and 60% likelihood of achieving < 90 mmHg (diastolic) on valsartan alone and the likelihood of achieving these goals on HCTZ alone is about 50% (systolic) or 57% (diastolic). Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure: • In patients not adequately controlled with monotherapy ( 1 ) • As initial therapy in patients likely to need multiple drugs to achieve their blood pressure goals ( 1 ) Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. Figure 1: Probability of Achieving Systolic Blood Pressure Less Than 140 mmHg at Week 8 Figure 2: Probability of Achieving Diastolic Blood Pressure Less Than 90 mmHg at Week 8 Figure 3: Probability of Achieving Systolic Blood Pressure Less Than 130 mmHg at Week 8 Figure 4: Probability of Achieving Diastolic Blood Pressure Less Than 80 mmHg at Week 8 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes, including amlodipine, hydrochlorothiazide, and the ARB class to which valsartan principally belongs. There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Limitation of Use Amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablet is not indicated for the initial therapy of hypertension [see Dosage and Administration ( 2 )]. • Amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablet is a combination tablet of amlodipine, a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker (DHP CCB), valsartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB), and hydrochlorothiazide, a thiazide diuretic. Amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension to lower blood pressure. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use Amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablet is not indicated for initial treatment of hypertension.( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes, including hydrochlorothiazide and the ARB class to which valsartan principally belongs. There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP. Add-On Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP may be used in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on monotherapy. Replacement Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP may be substituted for the titrated components. Initial Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP may be used as initial therapy in patients who are likely to need multiple drugs to achieve blood pressure goals. The choice of valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP as initial therapy for hypertension should be based on an assessment of potential benefits and risks. Data from the high dose multifactorial trial [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] provides estimates of the probability of reaching a target blood pressure with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP compared to valsartan or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy. The figures below provide estimates of the likelihood of achieving systolic or diastolic blood pressure control with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP 320 mg/25 mg, based upon baseline systolic or diastolic blood pressure. For example, a patient with a baseline blood pressure of 160/100 mmHg has about a 41% likelihood of achieving a goal of <140 mmHg (systolic) and 60% likelihood of achieving <90 mmHg (diastolic) on valsartan alone and the likelihood of achieving these goals on hydrochlorothiazide alone is about 50% (systolic) or 57% (diastolic). The likelihood of achieving these goals on valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP rise to about 84% (systolic) or 80% (diastolic). Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide is the combination tablet of valsartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and hydrochlorothiazide, a diuretic. Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure: • In patients not adequately controlled with monotherapy. (1) • As initial therapy in patients likely to need multiple drugs to achieve their blood pressure goals. Figure 1: Probability of Achieving Systolic Blood Pressure <140 mmHg at Week 8 Figure 2: Probability of Achieving Diastolic Blood Pressure <90 mmHg at Week 8 Figure 3: Probability of Achieving Systolic Blood Pressure <130 mmHg at Week 8 Figure 4: Probability of Achieving Diastolic Blood Pressure <80 mmHg at Week 8 Data from the high dose multifactorial trial [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] provides estimates of the probability of reaching a target blood pressure with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets compared to valsartan or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy. C:\Users\RA\Desktop\1.jpg C:\Users\RA\Desktop\2.jpg C:\Users\RA\Desktop\3.jpg C:\Users\RA\Desktop\4.jpg
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dose once daily. Titrate as needed to a maximum dose of 320 mg/25 mg. (2) May be used as add-on/switch therapy for patients not adequately controlled on any of the components (valsartan or HCTZ). (2) May be substituted for titrated components. (2.3) 2.1 General Considerations The usual starting dose is valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 160 mg/12.5 mg once daily. The dosage can be increased after 1 to 2 weeks of therapy to a maximum of one 320 mg/25 mg tablet once daily as needed to control blood pressure [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Maximum antihypertensive effects are attained within 2 to 4 weeks after a change in dose. 2.2 Add-On Therapy A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with valsartan (or another ARB) alone or hydrochlorothiazide alone may be switched to combination therapy with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. A patient who experiences dose-limiting adverse reactions on either component alone may be switched to valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets containing a lower dose of that component in combination with the other to achieve similar blood pressure reductions. The clinical response to valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be subsequently evaluated and if blood pressure remains uncontrolled after 3 to 4 weeks of therapy, the dose may be titrated up to a maximum of 320 mg/25 mg. 2.3 Replacement Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be substituted for the titrated components. 2.4 Initial Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not recommended as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 2.5 Use with Other Antihypertensive Drugs Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. Titrate as needed to a maximum dose of 320/25mg ( 2 ) May be used as add-on/switch therapy for patients not adequately controlled on any of the components (valsartan or HCTZ) ( 2 ) May be substituted for titrated components ( 2.3 ) 2.1 General Considerations The usual starting dose is valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 160/12.5 mg once daily. The dosage can be increased after 1 to 2 weeks of therapy to a maximum of one 320/25 tablet once daily as needed to control blood pressure [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. The clinical response to valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be subsequently evaluated and if blood pressure remains uncontrolled after 3 to 4 weeks of therapy, the dose may be titrated up to a maximum of 320/25 mg. 2.4 Initial Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not recommended as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Dose once daily. Titrate as needed to a maximum dose of 320/25mg ( 2 ) • May be used as add-on/switch therapy for patients not adequately controlled on any of the components (valsartan or HCTZ) ( 2 ) • May be substituted for titrated components ( 2.3 ) 2.1 General Considerations The usual starting dose is valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 160/12.5 mg once daily. The dosage can be increased after 1 to 2 weeks of therapy to a maximum of one 320/25 tablet once daily as needed to control blood pressure [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. 2.4 Initial Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not recommended as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dose once-daily. Titrate up to a maximum dose of 10/320/25 mg. ( 2.1 ) Exforge HCT may be used as add-on/switch therapy for patients not adequately controlled on any two of the following antihypertensive classes: calcium channel blockers, angiotensin receptor blockers, and diuretics. ( 2.2 ) Exforge HCT may be substituted for its individually titrated components. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 General Considerations Dose once-daily. The dosage may be increased after 2 weeks of therapy. The full blood pressure lowering effect was achieved 2 weeks after being on the maximal dose of Exforge HCT. The maximum recommended dose of Exforge HCT is 10/320/25 mg. 2.2 Add-on/Switch Therapy Exforge HCT may be used for patients not adequately controlled on any 2 of the following antihypertensive classes: calcium channel blockers, angiotensin receptor blockers, and diuretics. A patient who experiences dose-limiting adverse reactions to an individual component while on any dual combination of the components of Exforge HCT may be switched to Exforge HCT containing a lower dose of that component to achieve similar blood pressure reductions. 2.3 Replacement Therapy Exforge HCT may be substituted for the individually titrated components. 2.4 Use With Other Antihypertensive Drugs Exforge HCT may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. Titrate as needed to a maximum dose of 320/25 mg ( 2 ) • May be used as add-on/switch therapy for patients not adequately controlled on any of the components (valsartan or HCTZ) ( 2 ) • May be substituted for titrated components ( 2.3 ) 2.1 General Considerations The usual starting dose is valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 160/12.5 mg once daily. The dosage can be increased after 1 to 2 weeks of therapy to a maximum of one 320/25 tablet once daily as needed to control blood pressure [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 2.4 Initial Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not recommended as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION • Dose once-daily. Titrate up to a maximum dose of 10/320/25 mg ( 2.1 ) • Amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be used as add-on/switch therapy for patients not adequately controlled on any two of the following antihypertensive classes: calcium channel blockers, angiotensin receptor blockers, and diuretics ( 2.2 ). • Amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be substituted for its individually titrated components ( 2.3 ) 2.1 General Considerations Dose once-daily. The full blood pressure lowering effect was achieved 2 weeks after being on the maximal dose of amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. The maximum recommended dose of amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is 10/320/25 mg. 2.2 Add-on / Switch Therapy Amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be used for patients not adequately controlled on any 2 of the following antihypertensive classes: calcium channel blockers, angiotensin receptor blockers, and diuretics. A patient who experiences dose-limiting adverse reactions to an individual component while on any dual combination of the components of amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be switched to amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets containing a lower dose of that component to achieve similar blood pressure reductions. 2.3 Replacement Therapy Amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be substituted for the individually titrated components. 2.4 Use With Other Antihypertensive Drugs Amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. (2) • May be used as add-on/switch therapy for patients not adequately controlled on any of the components (valsartan or hydrochlorothiazide). (2) • May be substituted for titrated components. 2.4 Initial Therapy Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not recommended as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] .
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. Because of the hydrochlorothiazide component, this product is contraindicated in patients with anuria or hypersensitivity to other sulfonamide-derived drugs. Do not co-administer aliskiren with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Anuria; Hypersensitivity to any sulfonamide-derived drugs or any component; Do not co-administer aliskiren with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. (4) Do not co-administer aliskiren with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Anuria; Hypersensitivity to any sulfonamide-derived drugs or any component: Do not co-administer aliskiren with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes ( 4 ) Do not coadminister aliskiren with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions (7 )]. Anuria; Hypersensitivity to any sulfonamide-derived drugs or any component; Do not coadminister aliskiren with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not use in patients with anuria, hypersensitivity to other sulfonamide-derived drugs, or hypersensitivity to any component of this product. Do not coadminister aliskiren with Exforge HCT in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions (7)] . Anuria ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to sulfonamide-derived drugs ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to any component ( 4 ) Do not coadminister aliskiren with Exforge HCT in patients with diabetes ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. Do not coadminister aliskiren with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Anuria; Hypersensitivity to any sulfonamide-derived drugs or any component; Do not coadminister aliskiren with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. ( 4 ) Do not coadminister aliskiren with amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. • Anuria ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to sulfonamide-derived drugs ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to any component ( 4 ) • Do not coadminister aliskiren with amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes ( 4 ) Do not coadminister aliskiren with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Valsartan and Hydrochlorothiazide: Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists or thiazides. Monitor lithium levels in patients taking valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide. Valsartan: Agents Increasing Serum Potassium: Concomitant use of valsartan with other agents that block the renin-angiotensin system, potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, amiloride), potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing potassium or other drugs that may increase potassium levels (e.g., heparin) may lead to increases in serum potassium and in heart failure patients to increases in serum creatinine. If co-medication is considered necessary, monitoring of serum potassium is advisable. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including valsartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving valsartan and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including valsartan, may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS): Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on valsartan and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with valsartan in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with valsartan in patients with renal impairment (GFR < 60 mL/min). Hydrochlorothiazide: When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics: Antidiabetic Drugs (oral agents and insulin) - Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs and COX-2 selective inhibitors) - When valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. Carbamazepine - May lead to symptomatic hyponatremia. Ion exchange resins: Staggering the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and ion exchange resins (e.g., cholestyramine, colestipol) such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of resins would potentially minimize the interaction [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Cyclosporine: Concomitant treatment with cyclosporine may increase the risk of hyperuricemia and gout-type complications. Antidiabetic drugs: Dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required. (7) Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides. (12.3) Lithium: Increased risk of lithium toxicity. Monitor serum lithium concentrations during concurrent use. (7) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): May increase risk of renal impairment. Can reduce diuretic, natriuretic and antihypertensive effects of diuretics. (7) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia. (7) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Valsartan-Hydrochlorothiazide: Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists or thiazides. Monitor lithium levels in patients taking valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including valsartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Do not coadminister aliskiren with valsartan in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with valsartan in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDS and COX-2 selective inhibitors) - When valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. Carbamazepine – May lead to symptomatic hyponatremia. Ion exchange resins: Staggering the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and ion exchange resins (e.g., cholestyramine, colestipol) such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of resins would potentially minimize the interaction [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Cyclosporine : Concomitant treatment with cyclosporine may increase the risk of hyperuricemia and gout-type complications. Antidiabetic Drugs: Dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required ( 7 ) Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides ( 12.3 ) Lithium: Increased risk of lithium toxicity. ( 7 ) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): May increase risk of renal impairment. Can reduce diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of diuretics. ( 7 ) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia ( 7 ) Hydrochlorothiazide: When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics: Antidiabetic Drugs ( oral agents and insulin ) - Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Ion exchange resins: Staggering the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and ion exchange resins (e.g., cholestyramine, colestipol) such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of resins would potentially minimize the interaction [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Antidiabetic drugs : Dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required ( 7 ) Cholestyramine and colestipol : Reduced absorption of thiazides ( 12.3 ) Lithium : Increase risk of lithium toxicity. ( 7 ) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) : May increase risk of renal impairment. ( 7 ) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system : Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia ( 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug interaction studies have been conducted with Exforge HCT and other drugs, although studies have been conducted with the individual components. A pharmacokinetic drug-drug interaction study has been conducted to address the potential for pharmacokinetic interaction between the triple combination, Exforge HCT, and the corresponding 3 double combinations. No clinically relevant interaction was observed. Amlodipine Impact of Other Drugs on Amlodipine CYP3A Inhibitors Coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors (moderate and strong) results in increased systemic exposure to amlodipine and may require dose reduction. Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema when amlodipine is coadministered with CYP3A inhibitors to determine the need for dose adjustment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . CYP3A Inducers No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine. Blood pressure should be closely monitored when amlodipine is coadministered with CYP3A inducers (e.g., rifampicin, St. John’s Wort). Sildenafil Monitor for hypotension when sildenafil is coadministered with amlodipine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Impact of Amlodipine on Other Drugs Simvastatin Coadministration of simvastatin with amlodipine increases the systemic exposure of simvastatin. Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amlodipine to 20 mg daily [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Immunosuppressants Amlodipine may increase the systemic exposure of cyclosporine or tacrolimus when coadministered. Frequent monitoring of trough blood levels of cyclosporine and tacrolimus is recommended and adjust the dose when appropriate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Valsartan Agents Increasing Serum Potassium: Concomitant use of valsartan with other agents that block the renin-angiotensin system, potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, amiloride), potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing potassium or other drugs that may increase potassium levels (e.g., heparin) may lead to increases in serum potassium and in heart failure patients to increases in serum creatinine. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory (NSAID) Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including valsartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Valsartan – Hydrochlorothiazide Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists or thiazides. Monitor lithium levels in patients taking Exforge HCT. Hydrochlorothiazide When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics: Antidiabetic Drugs (oral agents and insulin): Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Non-Steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs and COX-2 selective inhibitors): When Exforge HCT and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of diuretic is obtained. Carbamazepine: May lead to symptomatic hyponatremia. Ion Exchange Resins: Staggering the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and ion exchange resins (e.g., cholestyramine, colestipol) such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of resins, would potentially minimize the interaction [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . If simvastatin is coadministered with amlodipine, do not exceed doses greater than 20 mg daily of simvastatin. ( 7 ) Antidiabetic drugs: Dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required. ( 7 ) Cholestyramine and Colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides. ( 12.3 ) Lithium: Increased risk of lithium toxicity. ( 7 ) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug (NSAID) use may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of anti-hypertensive effect. ( 7 ) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia. ( 7 ) Antidiabetic drugs : Dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required ( 7 ) Cholestyramine and colestipol : Reduced absorption of thiazides ( 12.3 ) Lithium : Increased risk of lithium toxicity. Hydrochlorothiazide: When administered concurrently, the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics: Antidiabetic Drugs (oral agents and insulin): Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs and COX-2 selective inhibitors): When valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. • Antidiabetic drugs: Dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required. ( 7 ) • Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides. ( 12.3 ) • Lithium: Increased risk of lithium toxicity. ( 7 ) • Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): May increase risk of renal impairment. ( 7 ) • Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia. Pharmacodynamic Drug Interactions Hydrochlorothiazide Alcohol, Barbiturates, or Narcotics Potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur. Skeletal Muscle Relaxants Possible increased responsiveness to muscle relaxants such as curare derivatives. Digitalis Glycosides Thiazide-induced hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may predispose the patient to digoxin toxicity. Drug Interactions Valsartan No clinically significant pharmacokinetic interactions were observed when valsartan was coadministered with amlodipine, atenolol, cimetidine, digoxin, furosemide, glyburide, hydrochlorothiazide, or indomethacin. The valsartan-atenolol combination was more antihypertensive than either component, but it did not lower the heart rate more than atenolol alone. Coadministration of valsartan and warfarin did not change the pharmacokinetics of valsartan or the time-course of the anticoagulant properties of warfarin. Transporters The results from an in vitro study with human liver tissue indicate that valsartan is a substrate of the hepatic uptake transporter OATP1B1 and the hepatic efflux transporter MRP2. Coadministration of inhibitors of the uptake transporter (rifampin, cyclosporine) or efflux transporter (ritonavir) may increase the systemic exposure to valsartan. Hydrochlorothiazide Drugs that Alter Gastrointestinal Motility The bioavailability of thiazide-type diuretics may be increased by anticholinergic agents (e.g., atropine, biperiden), apparently due to a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and the stomach emptying rate. Conversely, pro-kinetic drugs may decrease the bioavailability of thiazide diuretics. Cholestyramine In a dedicated drug interaction study, administration of cholestyramine 2 hours before hydrochlorothiazide resulted in a 70% reduction in exposure to hydrochlorothiazide. Further, administration of hydrochlorothiazide 2 hours before cholestyramine resulted in 35% reduction in exposure to hydrochlorothiazide. Antineoplastic Agents (e.g., Cyclophosphamide, Methotrexate) Concomitant use of thiazide diuretics may reduce renal excretion of cytotoxic agents and enhance their myelosuppressive effects. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug interaction studies have been conducted with amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other drugs, although studies have been conducted with the individual components. A pharmacokinetic drug-drug interaction study has been conducted to address the potential for pharmacokinetic interaction between the triple combination, amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, and the corresponding 3 double combinations. Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema when amlodipine is coadministered with CYP3A inhibitors to determine the need for dose adjustment [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Blood pressure should be closely monitored when amlodipine is coadministered with CYP3A inducers (e.g. rifampicin, St.John’s Wort). Sildenafil Monitor for hypotension when sildenafil is coadministered with amlodipine [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )]. Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amlodipine to 20 mg daily [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Frequent monitoring of trough blood levels of cyclosporine and tacrolimus is recommended and adjust the dose when appropriate [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on valsartan and other agents that affect the RAS. Monitor lithium levels in patients taking amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Non-Steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs and COX-2 selective inhibitors): When amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of diuretic is obtained. • If simvastatin is coadministered with amlodipine, do not exceed doses greater than 20 mg daily of simvastatin ( 7 ) • Antidiabetic drugs: Dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required ( 7 ) • Cholestyramine and Colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides ( 12.3 ) • Lithium: Increased risk of lithium toxicity. ( 7 ) • Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug (NSAID) use may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of anti-hypertensive effect ( 7 ) • Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia ( 7 ) Valsartan: No clinically significant pharmacokinetic interactions were observed when valsartan was coadministered with amlodipine, atenolol, cimetidine, digoxin, furosemide, glyburide, hydrochlorothiazide, or indomethacin. CYP 450 Interactions: In vitro metabolism studies indicate that CYP 450 mediated drug interactions between valsartan and coadministered drugs are unlikely because of the low extent of metabolism [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Transporters: The results from an in vitro study with human liver tissue indicate that valsartan is a substrate of the hepatic uptake transporter OATP1B1 and the hepatic efflux transporter MRP2. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including valsartan may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Potassium: Concomitant use of valsartan with other agents that block the renin-angiotensin system, potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, amiloride), potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing potassium or other drugs that may increase potassium levels (e.g., heparin) may lead to increases in serum potassium and in heart failure patients to increases in serum creatinine. If comedication is considered necessary, monitoring of serum potassium is advisable. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). Ion Exchange Resins: Staggering the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and ion exchange resins (e.g., cholestyramine, colestipol) such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of resins would potentially minimize the interaction [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . (7) • Cholestyramine and Colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides. (12.3) • Lithium: Increased risk of lithium toxicity. (7) • Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): May increase risk of renal impairment. (7) • Dual Inhibition of the Renin-angiotensin System: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia. • Antidiabetic drugs: Dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required ( 7 ) • Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides ( 12.3 ) • Lithium: Increased risk of lithium toxicity. ( 7 ) • Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia ( 7 )

=== BUPIVACAINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose: Purpose: First aid antiseptic to help prevent skin infection in minor cuts, scrapes and burns. For preparation of the skin prior to surgery. Helps reduce bacteria that can potentially cause skin infections. Purpose Antiseptic
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection is indicated in adults for the production of local or regional anesthesia or analgesia for surgery, dental and oral surgery procedures, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and for obstetrical procedures. Specific concentrations and presentations of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection are recommended for each type of block indicated to produce local or regional anesthesia or analgesia [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection contains bupivacaine, an amide local anesthetic. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection is indicated in adults for the production of local or regional anesthesia or analgesia for surgery, dental and oral surgery procedures, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and for obstetrical procedures. For each type of block indicated to produce local or regional anesthesia or analgesia, specific concentrations and presentations are recommended. ( 1 , 2.2 ) Limitations of Use Not all blocks are indicated for use with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection given clinically significant risks associated with use. ( 1 , 2.2 , 4 , 5.1 , 5.4 , 5.5 , 5.7 , 5.9 ) Limitations of Use Not all blocks are indicated for use with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection given clinically significant risks associated with use [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.4 , 5.5 , 5.7 , 5.9) ] . INDICATIONS AND USAGE A. For Intramuscular Administration When oral therapy is not feasible and the strength, dosage form, and route of administration of the drug reasonably lend the preparation to the treatment of the condition, the intramuscular use of methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is indicated as follows: Allergic States : Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment in asthma, atopic dermatitis, contact dermatitis, drug hypersensitivity reactions, serum sickness, transfusion reactions. Dermatologic Diseases : Bullous dermatitis herpetiformis, exfoliative dermatitis, mycosis fungoides, pemphigus, severe erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson syndrome). Endocrine Disorders : Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the drug of choice; synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable; in infancy, mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance), congenital adrenal hyperplasia, hypercalcemia associated with cancer, nonsupportive thyroiditis. Gastrointestinal Diseases : To tide the patient over a critical period of the disease in regional enteritis (systemic therapy) and ulcerative colitis. Hematologic Disorders : Acquired (autoimmune) hemolytic anemia, congenital (erythroid) hypoplastic anemia (Diamond Blackfan anemia), pure red cell aplasia, select cases of secondary thrombocytopenia. Miscellaneous : Trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement, tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy. Neoplastic Diseases : For palliative management of: leukemias and lymphomas. Nervous System : Cerebral edema associated with primary or metastatic brain tumor or craniotomy. Ophthalmic Diseases : Sympathetic ophthalmia, temporal arteritis, uveitis, ocular inflammatory conditions unresponsive to topical corticosteroids. Renal Diseases : To induce diuresis or remission of proteinuria in idiopathic nephrotic syndrome, or that due to lupus erythematosus. Respiratory Diseases : Berylliosis, fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy, idiopathic eosinophilic pneumonias, symptomatic sarcoidosis. Rheumatic Disorders : As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in acute gouty arthritis; acute rheumatic carditis; ankylosing spondylitis; psoriatic arthritis; rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low-dose maintenance therapy). For the treatment of dermatomyositis, polymyositis, and systemic lupus erythematosus. B. For Intra-articular Or Soft Tissue Administration ( See WARNINGS ) Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is indicated as adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in acute gouty arthritis, acute and subacute bursitis, acute nonspecific tenosynovitis, epicondylitis, rheumatoid arthritis, synovitis of osteoarthritis. C. For Intralesional Administration Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is indicated for intralesional use in alopecia areata, discoid lupus erythematosus; keloids, localized hypertrophic, infiltrated inflammatory lesions of granuloma annulare, lichen planus, lichen simplex chronicus (neurodermatitis) and psoriatic plaques; necrobiosis lipoidica diabeticorum. Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension also may be useful in cystic tumors of an aponeurosis or tendon (ganglia). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lidocaine hydrochloride injection is indicated for production of local or regional anesthesia by infiltration techniques such as percutaneous injection and intravenous regional anesthesia by peripheral nerve block techniques such as brachial plexus and intercostal and by central neural techniques such as lumbar and caudal epidural blocks, when the accepted procedures for these techniques as described in standard textbooks are observed. For use as an first aid antiseptic pre-operative skin preperation INDICATIONS AND USAGE This parenteral preparation is indicated only for diluting or dissolving drugs for intravenous, intramuscular or subcutaneous injection, according to instructions of the manufacturer of the drug to be administered. Uses For first aid to decrease germs in minor cuts scrapes burns For preparation of the skin prior to injection 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is indicated in adults for the production of local or regional anesthesia or analgesia for surgery, dental and oral surgery procedures, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and for obstetrical procedures. Specific concentrations and presentations of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection are recommended for each type of block indicated to produce local or regional anesthesia or analgesia [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection contains bupivacaine, an amide local anesthetic, and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is a combination of bupivacaine, an amide local anesthetic, and epinephrine, an alpha and beta-adrenergic agonist. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is indicated in adults for the production of local or regional anesthesia or analgesia for surgery, dental and oral surgery procedures, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and for obstetrical procedures. ( 1 , 2.2 ) Limitations of Use Not all blocks are indicated for use with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection given clinically significant risks associated with use. ( 1 , 2.2 , 4 , 5.1 , 5.4 , 5.5 , 5.7 , 5.9 ) Limitations of Use Not all blocks are indicated for use with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection given clinically significant risks associated with use [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.4 , 5.5 , 5.7 , 5.9) ] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bupivacaine hydrochloride injection is indicated in adults for the production of local or regional anesthesia or analgesia for surgery and oral surgery procedures, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and for obstetrical procedures. Specific concentrations and presentations of bupivacaine hydrochloride injection are recommended for each type of block indicated to produce local or regional anesthesia or analgesia [ see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. Limitations of Use Not all blocks are indicated for use with bupivacaine hydrochloride injection given clinically significant risks associated with use [ see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.4, 5.5, 5.7, 5.9) ]. Bupivacaine hydrochloride injection is indicated in adults for the production of local or regional anesthesia or analgesia for surgery and oral surgery procedures, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and for obstetrical procedures. (1, 2.2) Limitations of Use Not all blocks are indicated for use with bupivacaine hydrochloride injection given clinically significant risks associated with use. (1, 2.2, 4, 5.1, 5.4, 5.5, 5.7, 5.9) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bupivacaine hydrochloride injection is indicated in adults for the production of local or regional anesthesia or analgesia for surgery, oral surgery procedures, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and for obstetrical procedures. Specific concentrations and presentations of bupivacaine hydrochloride injection are recommended for each type of block indicated to produce local or regional anesthesia or analgesia [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ]. Limitations of Use Not all blocks are indicated for use with bupivacaine hydrochloride injection given clinically significant risks associated with use [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ]. Specific concentrations and presentations of bupivacaine hydrochloride injection is recommended for each type of block indicated to produce local or regional anesthesia or analgesia [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. Limitations of Use Not all blocks are indicated for use with bupivacaine hydrochloride injection given clinically significant risks associated with use [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.5 , 5.7 , 5.9 )]. Bupivacaine hydrochloride injection contains bupivacaine, an amide local anesthetic is indicated in adults for the production of local or regional anesthesia or analgesia for surgery, dental and oral surgery procedures, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and for obstetrical procedures. ( 1 , 2.2 , 4 , 5.1 , 5.5 , 5.7 , 5.9 ) INDICATIONS & USAGE Sensorcaine (bupivacaine HCl) is indicated for the production of local or regional anesthesia or analgesia for surgery, dental and oral surgery procedures, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and for obstetrical procedures. Only the 0.25% and 0.5% concentrations are indicated for obstetrical anesthesia (see WARNINGS). Experience with nonobstetrical surgical procedures in pregnant patients is not sufficient to recommend use of the 0.75% concentration of bupivacaine HCl in these patients. Sensorcaine is not recommended for intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier Block) (see WARNINGS). The routes of administration and indicated Sensorcaine concentrations are: Standard textbooks should be consulted to determine the accepted procedures and techniques for the administration of Sensorcaine. Table1.jpg Limitations of Use Not all blocks are indicated for use with bupivacaine hydrochloride injection given clinically significant risks associated with use [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.4 , 5.5 , 5.7 , 5.9 )] . Bupivacaine hydrochloride injection contains bupivacaine hydrochloride, an amide local anesthetic indicated in adults for the production of local or regional anesthesia or analgesia for surgery, oral surgery procedures, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and for obstetrical procedures. ( 1 , 2.2 , 4 , 5.1 , 5.4 , 5.5 , 5.7 , 5.9 )
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Not for intrathecal use. ( 2.1 ) Avoid use of solutions containing antimicrobial preservatives (i.e., multiple-dose vials) for epidural or caudal anesthesia. ( 2.1 , 5.4 ) Three mL of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection without antimicrobial preservative (0.5% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine) is recommended for use as a test dose prior to caudal and lumbar epidural blocks when clinical conditions permit. ( 2.4 ) See full prescribing information for: Recommended concentrations and dosages of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection according to type of block. ( 2.2 ) Additional dosage and administration information pertaining to use in epidural anesthesia, test dose for caudal and lumbar epidural blocks, use in dentistry, and use in ophthalmic surgery. ( 2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is not for intrathecal use. Avoid use of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection solutions containing antimicrobial preservatives (i.e., multiple-dose vials) for epidural or caudal anesthesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Discard unused portions of solution not containing preservatives, i.e., those supplied in single-dose vials, following initial use. Visually inspect this product for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection are clear, colorless solutions. Do not administer solutions which are discolored or contain particulate matter. Mixing or the prior or intercurrent use of any other local anesthetic with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is not recommended because of insufficient data on the clinical use of such mixtures. Administration Precautions Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection are to be administered in carefully adjusted dosages by or under the supervision of experienced clinicians who are well versed in the diagnosis and management of dose-related toxicity and other acute emergencies which might arise from the block to be employed. Use Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection only if the following are immediately available: oxygen, cardiopulmonary resuscitative equipment and drugs, and the personnel resources needed for proper management of toxic reactions and related emergencies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6) , Overdosage (10) ] . The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. Monitor for neurologic and cardiovascular effects related to local anesthetic systemic toxicity when additional local anesthetics are administered with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Drug Interactions (7.1) , Overdosage (10) ] . Aspirate for blood or cerebrospinal fluid (where applicable) prior to injecting Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection, both the initial dose and all subsequent doses, to avoid intravascular or intrathecal injection. However, a negative aspiration for blood or cerebrospinal fluid does not ensure against an intravascular or intrathecal injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . Avoid rapid injection of a large volume of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and use fractional (incremental) doses when feasible. During major regional nerve blocks, such as those of the brachial plexus or lower extremity, the patient should have an indwelling intravenous catheter to assure adequate intravenous access. The lowest dosage of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection that results in effective anesthesia should be used to avoid high plasma levels and serious adverse reactions. Perform careful and constant monitoring of cardiovascular and respiratory (adequacy of oxygenation and ventilation) vital signs and the patient's level of consciousness after each local anesthetic injection. Use Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection in carefully restricted quantities in areas of the body supplied by end arteries or having otherwise compromised blood supply such as digits, nose, external ear, or penis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . 2.2 Recommended Concentrations and Dosages of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection The dosage of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection administered varies with the anesthetic procedure, the area to be anesthetized, the vascularity of the tissues, the number of neuronal segments to be blocked, the depth of anesthesia and degree of muscle relaxation required, the duration of anesthesia desired, individual tolerance, and the physical condition of the patient. Administer the smallest dosage and concentration required to produce the desired result. The types of block and recommended Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection concentrations are shown in Table 1. Table 1. Types of Block and Recommended Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection Concentrations Type of Block Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) is not recommended for nonobstetrical surgical procedures in pregnant patients. 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 0.5% (5 mg/mL) ✓= indicated use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Local infiltration ✓ ✓ Peripheral nerve block ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Retrobulbar block ✓ Sympathetic block ✓ Caudal block Avoid use of multiple-dose vials of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection for caudal or epidural anesthesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] . ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Lumbar epidural block ✓ ✓ ✓ (not for obstetrical anesthesia) ✓ ✓ Epidural test dose ✓ Dental block ✓ At recommended dosages, Bupivacaine Hydrochloride/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine produces complete sensory block, but the effect on motor function differs among the three concentrations. Table 2 provides information on the expected effect on motor function for the three concentrations. Table 2. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection Concentration vs. Motor Function Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Concentration Motor Function 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) These products include Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection [the epinephrine concentration (1:200,000) is not included in the table]. When used for caudal, epidural, or peripheral nerve block, produces incomplete motor block. Should be used for operations in which muscle relaxation is not important, or when another means of providing muscle relaxation is used concurrently. Onset of action may be slower than with the 0.5% (5 mg/mL) or 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) solutions. 0.5% (5 mg/mL) Provides motor blockade for caudal, epidural, or nerve block, but muscle relaxation may be inadequate for operations in which complete muscle relaxation is essential. 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) These are only Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection products [there is no 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) concentration for Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection]. Produces complete motor block. Most useful for epidural block in abdominal operations requiring complete muscle relaxation, and for retrobulbar anesthesia. Not for obstetrical anesthesia. The duration of anesthesia with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is such that for most indications, a single-dose is sufficient. The maximum dosage limit within the recommended dosage range must be individualized in each case after evaluating the size and physical status of the patient, as well as the anticipated rate of systemic absorption from a particular injection site. The dosages in Table 3 are recommended as a guide for use in the average adult. These doses may be repeated once every three hours. Do not exceed a total daily dosage of 400 mg in 24 hours. The duration of anesthetic effect may be prolonged by the addition of epinephrine. Table 3. Recommended Concentrations and Doses of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection in Adults Type of Block Concentration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Each Dose Motor Block With continuous (intermittent) techniques, repeat doses increase the degree of motor block. The first repeat dose of 0.5% (5 mg/mL) may produce complete motor block. Intercostal nerve block with 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) also may produce complete motor block for intra-thoracic and upper intra-abdominal surgery. mL mg of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Local infiltration 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) Solutions with or without epinephrine (i.e., applies to Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection). The Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection products include epinephrine (1:200,000). Up to 70 (without epinephrine) Up to 175 (without epinephrine) ― Up to 90 (with epinephrine) Up to 225 (with epinephrine) Peripheral nerve block 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 5–35 (without epinephrine) 25–175 (without epinephrine) moderate to complete 5–45 (with epinephrine) 25–225 (with epinephrine) 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 5–70 (without epinephrine) 12.5–175 (without epinephrine) moderate to complete 5–90 (with epinephrine) 12.5–225 (with epinephrine) Retrobulbar block [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) 2–4 15–30 complete Sympathetic block 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 20–50 50–125 ― Caudal block [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 15–30 75–150 moderate to complete 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 15–30 37.5–75 moderate Lumbar epidural block [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) For single-dose use; not for intermittent epidural technique. 10–20 75–150 complete 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 10–20 50–100 moderate to complete 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 10–20 25–50 partial to moderate Epidural test dose [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] 0.5% (5 mg/mL) with epinephrine 2–3 10–15 (10–15 micrograms epinephrine) ― Dental [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] 0.5% (5 mg/mL) with epinephrine 1.8–3.6 per site 9–18 per site ― 2.3 Use in Epidural Anesthesia During the administration of epidural anesthesia, it is recommended that a test dose of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection without antimicrobial preservative (0.5% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine) be administered initially and the effects monitored before the full dose is given. When using a "continuous" catheter technique, test doses should be given prior to both the initial and all supplemental doses, because a catheter in the epidural space can migrate into a blood vessel or through the dura [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . During epidural administration, administer Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection, 0.5% (5 mg/mL) and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) solutions in incremental doses of 3 mL to 5 mL with sufficient time between doses to detect toxic manifestations of unintentional intravascular or intrathecal injection. Administer injections slowly, with frequent aspirations before and during the injection to avoid intravascular injection. Perform syringe aspirations before and during each supplemental injection in continuous (intermittent) catheter techniques. In obstetrics, use ONLY the 0.5% (5 mg/mL) and 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) concentrations of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]; incremental doses of 3 mL to 5 mL of the 0.5% (5 mg/mL) solution not exceeding 50 mg to 100 mg at any dosing interval are recommended. Repeat doses should be preceded by a test dose containing epinephrine if not clinically contraindicated. Use only the single-dose vials for caudal or epidural anesthesia; avoid use of the multiple-dose vials for these procedures, which contain a preservative [see Dosage and Administration (2.1 , 2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.4 , 5.9) ] . 2.4 Test Dose for Caudal and Lumbar Epidural Blocks Three mL of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection without antimicrobial preservative (0.5% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine) is recommended for use as a test dose prior to caudal and lumbar epidural blocks when clinical conditions permit. This test dose may serve as a warning of unintended intravascular or intrathecal injection. Closely monitor for early clinical signs of toxicity following each test dose [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . Allot adequate time for onset of spinal block to detect possible intrathecal injection. An intravascular or intrathecal injection is still possible even if results of the test dose are negative. The test dose itself may produce a systemic toxic reaction, high spinal, or cardiovascular effects from the epinephrine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.9) , Overdosage (10) ]. 2.5 Use in Dentistry Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection 0.5% (5 mg/mL) is recommended for infiltration and block injection in the maxillary and mandibular area when a longer duration of local anesthesia is desired, such as for procedures generally associated with significant postoperative pain. The average dose of 1.8 mL (9 mg) per injection site will usually suffice; an occasional second dose of 1.8 mL (9 mg) may be used if necessary to produce adequate anesthesia after allowing 2 to 10 minutes for block onset [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Use the lowest effective dose and allow time between injections; it is recommended that the total dose for all injection sites, spread out over a single dental sitting, not exceed 90 mg for a healthy adult patient (ten 1.8 mL injections of 0.5% (5 mg/mL) Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection). Inject slowly and with frequent aspirations. 2.6 Use in Ophthalmic Surgery When Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) is used for retrobulbar block, complete corneal anesthesia usually precedes onset of clinically acceptable external ocular muscle akinesia. Therefore, presence of akinesia rather than anesthesia alone should determine readiness of the patient for surgery [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15) ] . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Because of possible physical incompatibilities, methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension should not be diluted or mixed with other solutions. The initial dosage of parenterally administered methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension will vary from 4 mg to 120 mg, depending on the specific disease entity being treated. However, in certain overwhelming, acute, life-threatening situations, administration in dosages exceeding the usual dosages may be justified and may be in multiples of the oral dosages. It Should Be Emphasized that Dosage Requirements Are Variable and Must Be Individualized on the Basis of the Disease Under Treatment and the Response of the Patient. After a favorable response is noted, the proper maintenance dosage should be determined by decreasing the initial drug dosage in small decrements at appropriate time intervals until the lowest dosage which will maintain an adequate clinical response is reached. Situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process, the patient’s individual drug responsiveness, and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease entity under treatment. In this latter situation, it may be necessary to increase the dosage of the corticosteroid for a period of time consistent with the patient’s condition. If after long-term therapy the drug is to be stopped, it is recommended that it be withdrawn gradually rather than abruptly. A. Administration for Local Effect Therapy with methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension does not obviate the need for the conventional measures usually employed. Although this method of treatment will ameliorate symptoms, it is in no sense a cure and the hormone has no effect on the cause of the inflammation. 1. Rheumatoid Arthritis and Osteoarthritis. The dose for intra-articular administration depends upon the size of the joint and varies with the severity of the condition in the individual patient. In chronic cases, injections may be repeated at intervals ranging from one to five or more weeks, depending upon the degree of relief obtained from the initial injection. The doses in the following table are given as a general guide: Size of Joint Examples Range of Dosage Large Knees Ankles Shoulders 20 mg to 80 mg Medium Elbows Wrists 10 mg to 40 mg Small Metacarpophalangeal Interphalangeal Sternoclavicular Acromioclavicular 4 mg to 10 mg Procedure: It is recommended that the anatomy of the joint involved be reviewed before attempting intra-articular injection. In order to obtain the full anti-inflammatory effect, it is important that the injection be made into the synovial space. Employing the same sterile technique as for a lumbar puncture, a sterile 20 to 24 gauge needle (on a dry syringe) is quickly inserted into the synovial cavity. Procaine infiltration is elective. The aspiration of only a few drops of joint fluid proves the joint space has been entered by the needle. The injection site for each joint is determined by that location where the synovial cavity is most superficial and most free of large vessels and nerves. With the needle in place, the aspirating syringe is removed and replaced by a second syringe containing the desired amount of methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension. The plunger is then pulled outward slightly to aspirate synovial fluid and to make sure the needle is still in the synovial space. After injection, the joint is moved gently a few times to aid mixing of the synovial fluid and the suspension. The site is covered with a small sterile dressing. Suitable sites for intra-articular injection are the knee, ankle, wrist, elbow, shoulder, phalangeal, and hip joints. Since difficulty is not infrequently encountered in entering the hip joint, precautions should be taken to avoid any large blood vessels in the area. Joints not suitable for injection are those that are anatomically inaccessible such as the spinal joints and those like the sacroiliac joints that are devoid of synovial space. Treatment failures are most frequently the result of failure to enter the joint space. Little or no benefit follows injection into surrounding tissue. If failures occur when injections into the synovial spaces are certain, as determined by aspiration of fluid, repeated injections are usually futile. If a local anesthetic is used prior to injection of methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension, the anesthetic package insert should be read carefully and all the precautions observed. 2. Bursitis . The area around the injection site is prepared in a sterile way and a wheal at the site made with 1 percent procaine hydrochloride solution. A 20 to 24 gauge needle attached to a dry syringe is inserted into the bursa and the fluid aspirated. The needle is left in place and the aspirating syringe changed for a small syringe containing the desired dose. After injection, the needle is withdrawn and a small dressing applied. 3. Miscellaneous: Ganglion, Tendinitis, Epicondylitis. In the treatment of conditions such as tendinitis or tenosynovitis, care should be taken following application of a suitable antiseptic to the overlying skin to inject the suspension into the tendon sheath rather than into the substance of the tendon. The tendon may be readily palpated when placed on a stretch. When treating conditions such as epicondylitis, the area of greatest tenderness should be outlined carefully and the suspension infiltrated into the area. For ganglia of the tendon sheaths, the suspension is injected directly into the cyst. In many cases, a single injection causes a marked decrease in the size of the cystic tumor and may effect disappearance. The usual sterile precautions should be observed, of course, with each injection. The dose in the treatment of the various conditions of the tendinous or bursal structures listed above varies with the condition being treated and ranges from 4 mg to 30 mg. In recurrent or chronic conditions, repeated injections may be necessary. 4. Injections for Local Effect in Dermatologic Conditions . Following cleansing with an appropriate antiseptic such as 70% alcohol, 20 mg to 60 mg is injected into the lesion. It may be necessary to distribute doses ranging from 20 mg to 40 mg by repeated local injections in the case of large lesions. Care should be taken to avoid injection of sufficient material to cause blanching since this may be followed by a small slough. One to four injections are usually employed, the intervals between injections varying with the type of lesion being treated and the duration of improvement produced by the initial injection. B. Administration for Systemic Effect The intramuscular dosage will vary with the condition being treated. When employed as a temporary substitute for oral therapy, a single injection during each 24-hour period of a dose of the suspension equal to the total daily oral dose of methylprednisolone tablets, USP is usually sufficient. When a prolonged effect is desired, the weekly dose may be calculated by multiplying the daily oral dose by 7 and given as a single intramuscular injection. In pediatric patients, the initial dose of methylprednisolone may vary depending on the specific disease entity being treated. Dosage must be individualized according to the severity of the disease and response of the patient. The recommended dosage may be reduced for pediatric patients, but dosage should be governed by the severity of the condition rather than by strict adherence to the ratio indicated by age or body weight. In patients with the adrenogenital syndrome , a single intramuscular injection of 40 mg every two weeks may be adequate. For maintenance of patients with rheumatoid arthritis , the weekly intramuscular dose will vary from 40 mg to 120 mg. The usual dosage for patients with dermatologic lesions benefited by systemic corticoid therapy is 40 mg to 120 mg of methylprednisolone acetate administered intramuscularly at weekly intervals for one to four weeks. In acute severe dermatitis due to poison ivy, relief may result within 8 to 12 hours following intramuscular administration of a single-dose of 80 mg to 120 mg. In chronic contact dermatitis, repeated injections at 5 to 10 day intervals may be necessary. In seborrheic dermatitis, a weekly dose of 80 mg may be adequate to control the condition. Following intramuscular administration of 80 mg to 120 mg to asthmatic patients, relief may result within 6 to 48 hours and persist for several days to two weeks. If signs of stress are associated with the condition being treated, the dosage of the suspension should be increased. If a rapid hormonal effect of maximum intensity is required, the intravenous administration of highly soluble methylprednisolone sodium succinate is indicated. For the purpose of comparison, the following is the equivalent milligram dose of the various glucocorticoids: Cortisone, 25 Triamcinolone, 4 Hydrocortisone, 20 Paramethasone, 2 Prednisolone, 5 Betamethasone, 0.75 Prednisone, 5 Dexamethasone, 0.75 Methylprednisolone, 4 These dose relationships apply only to oral or intravenous administration of these compounds. When these substances or their derivatives are injected intramuscularly or into joint spaces, their relative properties may be greatly altered. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Table 1 (Recommended Dosages) summarizes the recommended volumes and concentrations of lidocaine hydrochloride injection for various types of anesthetic procedures. The dosages suggested in this table are for normal healthy adults and refer to the use of epinephrine-free solutions. When larger volumes are required, only solutions containing epinephrine should be used except in those cases where vasopressor drugs may be contraindicated. There have been adverse event reports of chondrolysis in patients receiving intra-articular infusions of local anesthetics following arthroscopic and other surgical procedures. Lidocaine hydrochloride injection is not approved for this use (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). These recommended doses serve only as a guide to the amount of anesthetic required for most routine procedures. The actual volumes and concentrations to be used depend on a number of factors such as type and extent of surgical procedure, depth of anesthesia and degree of muscular relaxation required, duration of anesthesia required, and the physical condition of the patient. In all cases the lowest concentration and smallest dose that will produce the desired result should be given. Dosages should be reduced for children and for the elderly and debilitated patients and patients with cardiac and/or liver disease. The onset of anesthesia, the duration of anesthesia and the degree of muscular relaxation are proportional to the volume and concentration (i.e., total dose) of local anesthetic used. Thus, an increase in volume and concentration of lidocaine hydrochloride injection will decrease the onset of anesthesia, prolong the duration of anesthesia, provide a greater degree of muscular relaxation and increase the segmental spread of anesthesia. However, increasing the volume and concentration of lidocaine hydrochloride injection may result in a more profound fall in blood pressure when used in epidural anesthesia. Although the incidence of side effects with lidocaine hydrochloride is quite low, caution should be exercised when employing large volumes and concentrations, since the incidence of side effects is directly proportional to the total dose of local anesthetic agent injected. Epidural Anesthesia For epidural anesthesia the following dosage form of lidocaine hydrochloride injection is recommended: 1% without epinephrine 30 mL single dose vials Although this solution is intended specifically for epidural anesthesia, it may also be used for infiltration and peripheral nerve block, provided it is employed as a single dose unit. This solution contains no bacteriostatic agent. In epidural anesthesia, the dosage varies with the number of dermatomes to be anesthetized (generally 2 to 3 mL of the indicated concentration per dermatome). Caudal and Lumbar Epidural Block As a precaution against the adverse experience sometimes observed following unintentional penetration of the subarachnoid space, a test dose such as 2 to 3 mL of 1.5% lidocaine hydrochloride should be administered at least 5 minutes prior to injecting the total volume required for a lumbar or caudal epidural block. The test dose should be repeated if the patient is moved in a manner that may have displaced the catheter. Epinephrine, if contained in the test dose (10 to 15 mcg have been suggested), may serve as a warning of unintentional intravascular injection. If injected into a blood vessel, this amount of epinephrine is likely to produce a transient “epinephrine response” within 45 seconds, consisting of an increase in heart rate and systolic blood pressure, circumoral pallor, palpitations and nervousness in the unsedated patient. The sedated patient may exhibit only a pulse rate increase of 20 or more beats per minute for 15 or more seconds. Patients on beta blockers may not manifest changes in heart rate, but blood pressure monitoring can detect an evanescent rise in systolic blood pressure. Adequate time should be allowed for onset of anesthesia after administration of each test dose. The rapid injection of a large volume of lidocaine hydrochloride injection through the catheter should be avoided, and, when feasible, fractional doses should be administered. In the event of the known injection of a large volume of local anesthetic solution into the subarachnoid space, after suitable resuscitation and if the catheter is in place, consider attempting the recovery of drug by draining a moderate amount of cerebrospinal fluid (such as 10 mL) through the epidural catheter. Directions Povidone iodine: Tear at notch, remove applicator, use only once. As a first aid antiseptic clean affected area apply 1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage, if bandaged let dry. For preoperative patient skin preparation clean area apply to operative site prior to surgery using the applicator DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The volume of the preparation to be used for diluting or dissolving any drug for injection, is dependent on the vehicle concentration, dose and route of administration as recommended by the manufacturer. This parenteral should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The volume of the preparation to be used for diluting or dissolving any drug for injection is dependent on the vehicle concentration, dose and route of administration as recommended by the manufacturer. Directions apply to skin as needed discard after single use 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Not for intrathecal use. ( 2.1 ) • Avoid use of solutions containing antimicrobial preservatives (i.e., multiple-dose vials) for epidural or caudal anesthesia. ( 2.1 , 5.4 ) • Three mL of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection without antimicrobial preservative (0.5% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine) is recommended for use as a test dose prior to caudal and lumbar epidural blocks when clinical conditions permit. ( 2.4 ) • See full prescribing information for: - Recommended concentrations and dosages of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection according to type of block. ( 2.2 ) - Additional dosage and administration information pertaining to use in epidural anesthesia, test dose for caudal and lumbar epidural blocks, use in dentistry, and use in ophthalmic surgery. ( 2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information • Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is not for intrathecal use. • Avoid use of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection solutions containing antimicrobial preservatives (i.e., multiple-dose vials) for epidural or caudal anesthesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . • Discard unused portions of solution not containing preservatives, i.e., those supplied in single-dose vials, following initial use. • Visually inspect this product for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. • Mixing or the prior or intercurrent use of any other local anesthetic with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is not recommended because of insufficient data on the clinical use of such mixtures. Administration Precautions • Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection are to be administered in carefully adjusted dosages by or under the supervision of experienced clinicians who are well versed in the diagnosis and management of dose-related toxicity and other acute emergencies which might arise from the block to be employed. • Use Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection only if the following are immediately available: oxygen, cardiopulmonary resuscitative equipment and drugs, and the personnel resources needed for proper management of toxic reactions and related emergencies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6) , Overdosage (10) ] . • The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. • Aspirate for blood or cerebrospinal fluid (where applicable) prior to injecting Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection, both the initial dose and all subsequent doses, to avoid intravascular or intrathecal injection. • Avoid rapid injection of a large volume of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and use fractional (incremental) doses when feasible. • During major regional nerve blocks, such as those of the brachial plexus or lower extremity, the patient should have an indwelling intravenous catheter to assure adequate intravenous access. • Perform careful and constant monitoring of cardiovascular and respiratory (adequacy of oxygenation and ventilation) vital signs and the patient's level of consciousness after each local anesthetic injection. • Use Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection in carefully restricted quantities in areas of the body supplied by end arteries or having otherwise compromised blood supply such as digits, nose, external ear, or penis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . Types of Block and Recommended Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection Concentrations ✓= indicated use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Type of Block Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) is not recommended for nonobstetrical surgical procedures in pregnant patients. 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 0.5% (5 mg/mL) Local infiltration ✓ ✓ Peripheral nerve block ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Retrobulbar block ✓ Sympathetic block ✓ Caudal block Avoid use of multiple-dose vials of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection for caudal or epidural anesthesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Types of Block and Recommended Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection Concentrations Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Concentration Motor Function 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) These products include Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection [the epinephrine concentration (1:200,000) is not included in the table]. The duration of anesthesia with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is such that for most indications, a single dose is sufficient. (2.1) • Avoid use of solutions containing antimicrobial preservatives (i.e., multiple-dose vials) for epidural or caudal anesthesia. (2.1, 5.4) • See full prescribing information for: - Recommended concentrations and dosages of bupivacaine hydrochloride injection according to type of block. (2.2) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information Bupivacaine hydrochloride injection is not for intrathecal use. Avoid use of bupivacaine hydrochloride injection solutions containing antimicrobial preservatives (i.e., multiple-dose vials) for epidural or caudal anesthesia [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ]. Bupivacaine hydrochloride injection is clear, colorless solution. Mixing or the prior or intercurrent use of any other local anesthetic with bupivacaine hydrochloride injection is not recommended because of insufficient data on the clinical use of such mixtures. Administration Precautions Bupivacaine hydrochloride injection is to be administered in carefully adjusted dosages by or under the supervision of experienced clinicians who are well versed in the diagnosis and management of dose-related toxicity and other acute emergencies which might arise from the block to be employed. Use bupivacaine hydrochloride injection only if the following are immediately available: oxygen, cardiopulmonary resuscitative equipment and drugs, and the personnel resources needed for proper management of toxic reactions and related emergencies [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , ADVERSE REACTIONS , OVERDOSAGE ]. Monitor for neurologic and cardiovascular effects related to local anesthetic systemic toxicity when additional local anesthetics are administered with bupivacaine hydrochloride injection [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS , DRUG INTERACTIONS , OVERDOSAGE ]. Aspirate for blood or cerebrospinal fluid (where applicable) prior to injecting bupivacaine hydrochloride injection, both the initial dose and all subsequent doses, to avoid intravascular or intrathecal injection. However, a negative aspiration for blood or cerebrospinal fluid does not ensure against an intravascular or intrathecal injection [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ]. Avoid rapid injection of a large volume of bupivacaine hydrochloride injection and use fractional (incremental) doses when feasible. The lowest dosage of bupivacaine hydrochloride injection that results in effective anesthesia should be used to avoid high plasma levels and serious adverse reactions. Perform careful and constant monitoring of cardiovascular and respiratory (adequacy of oxygenation and ventilation) vital signs and the patient’s level of consciousness after each local anesthetic injection. 2.2 Recommended Concentrations and Dosages of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection The dosage of bupivacaine hydrochloride injection administered varies with the anesthetic procedure, the area to be anesthetized, the vascularity of the tissues, the number of neuronal segments to be blocked, the depth of anesthesia and degree of muscle relaxation required, the duration of anesthesia desired, individual tolerance, and the physical condition of the patient. The types of block and recommended bupivacaine hydrochloride injection concentrations are shown in Table 1. * Bupivacaine hydrochloride injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) is not recommended for non-obstetrical surgical procedures in pregnant patients. ** Avoid use of multiple-dose vials of bupivacaine hydrochloride injection for caudal or epidural anesthesia [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ]. ✓= Indicated use [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ]. At recommended dosages, bupivacaine hydrochloride injection produces complete sensory block, but the effect on motor function differs among the three concentrations. The duration of anesthesia with bupivacaine hydrochloride injection is such that for most indications, a single-dose is sufficient. a With continuous (intermittent) techniques, repeat doses increase the degree of motor block. b Solutions with or without epinephrine. c For single-dose use; not for intermittent epidural technique. 2.3 Use in Epidural Anesthesia During epidural administration, administer bupivacaine hydrochloride injection, 0.5% (5 mg/mL) and bupivacaine hydrochloride injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) solutions in incremental doses of 3 mL to 5 mL with sufficient time between doses to detect toxic manifestations of unintentional intravascular or intrathecal injection. In obstetrics, use ONLY the 0.5% (5 mg/mL) and 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) concentrations of bupivacaine hydrochloride injection [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ]; incremental doses of 3 mL to 5 mL of the 0.5% (5 mg/mL) solution not exceeding 50 mg to 100 mg at any dosing interval are recommended. Use only the single-dose vials for caudal or epidural anesthesia; avoid use of the multiple-dose vials for these procedures, which contain a preservative [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ]. Therefore, presence of akinesia rather than anesthesia alone should determine readiness of the patient for surgery [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ]. Table 1 Table 2 Table 3 ( 2.1 ) • See full prescribing information for: − Recommended concentrations and dosages of bupivacaine hydrochloride injection according to type of block. ( 2.2 ) − Additional dosage and administration information pertaining to use in epidural anesthesia and use in ophthalmic surgery. ( 2.3 , 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information • Bupivacaine hydrochloride injection is not for intrathecal use. Bupivacaine hydrochloride injection is a clear, colorless solution. • Mixing or the prior or intercurrent use of any other local anesthetic with bupivacaine hydrochloride injection is not recommended because of insufficient data on the clinical use of such mixtures. Administration Precautions • Bupivacaine hydrochloride injection is to be administered in carefully adjusted dosages by or under the supervision of experienced clinicians who are well versed in the diagnosis and management of dose-related toxicity and other acute emergencies which might arise from the block to be employed . • Use bupivacaine hydrochloride injection only if the following are immediately available: oxygen, cardiopulmonary resuscitative equipment and drugs, and the personnel resources needed for proper management of toxic reactions and related emergencies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6) , Overdosage (10) ]. Monitor for neurologic and cardiovascular effects related to local anesthetic systemic toxicity when additional local anesthetics are administered with bupivacaine hydrochloride injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Drug Interactions (7.1) , Overdosage (10) ]. • Aspirate for blood or cerebrospinal fluid (where applicable) prior to injecting bupivacaine hydrochloride injection, both the initial dose and all subsequent doses, to avoid intravascular or intrathecal injection. However, a negative aspiration for blood or cerebrospinal fluid does not ensure against an intravascular or intrathecal injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ]. • Avoid rapid injection of a large volume of bupivacaine hydrochloride injection and use fractional (incremental) doses when feasible. • Perform careful and constant monitoring of cardiovascular and respiratory (adequacy of oxygenation and ventilation) vital signs and the patient’s level of consciousness after each local anesthetic injection. Types of Block and Recommended Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Concentrations Type of Block Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL)* Local infiltration Peripheral nerve block Retrobulbar block Sympathetic block Caudal block Lumbar epidural block (not for obstetrical anesthesia) Epidural test dose Dental block *Bupivacaine hydrochloride injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) is not recommended for nonobstetrical surgical procedures in pregnant patients. = indicated use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Concentration vs. Motor Function Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Concentration Motor Function 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) When used for caudal, epidural, or peripheral nerve block, produces incomplete motor block. 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) Produces complete motor block. Recommended Concentrations and Doses of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection in Adults Type of Block Concentration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Each Dose Motor Block a mL mg of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Local infiltration 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) b Up to 70 (without epinephrine) Up to 175 (without epinephrine) ― Peripheral nerve block 0.5% (5 mg/mL) b 5 to 35 (without epinephrine) 25 to 175 (without epinephrine) moderate to complete 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) b 5 to 70 (without epinephrine) 12.5 to 175 (without epinephrine) moderate to complete Retrobulbar block [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) 2 to 4 15 to 30 complete Sympathetic block 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 20 to 50 50 to 125 ― Caudal block 0.5% (5 mg/mL) b 15 to 30 75 to 150 moderate to complete 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) b 15 to 30 37.5 to 75 moderate Lumbar epidural block [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) c 10 to 20 75 to 150 complete 0.5% (5 mg/mL) b 10 to 20 50 to 100 moderate to complete 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) b 10 to 20 25 to 50 partial to moderate a. With continuous (intermittent) techniques, repeat doses increase the degree of motor block. Solutions with or without epinephrine (i.e., applies to bupivacaine hydrochloride injection). c. For single-dose use; not for intermittent epidural technique. tickmarker tickmarker tickmarker tickmarker tickmarker tickmarker tickmarker tickmarker tickmarker tickmarker tickmarker 2.3 Use in Epidural Anesthesia During epidural administration, administer bupivacaine hydrochloride injection, 0.5% (5 mg/mL) and bupivacaine hydrochloride injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) solutions in incremental doses of 3 mL to 5 mL with sufficient time between doses to detect toxic manifestations of unintentional intravascular or intrathecal injection. In obstetrics, use ONLY the 0.5% (5 mg/mL) and 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) concentrations of bupivacaine hydrochloride injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] ; incremental doses of 3 mL to 5 mL of the 0.5% (5 mg/mL) solution not exceeding 50 mg to 100 mg at any dosing interval are recommended. Use only the single-dose vials for caudal or epidural anesthesia; avoid use of the multiple-dose vials for these procedures, which contain a preservative [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) , Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ]. Therefore, presence of akinesia rather than anesthesia alone should determine readiness of the patient for surgery [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15) ]. 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 0.5% (5 mg/mL) Local infiltration ✓ ✓ Peripheral nerve block ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Retrobulbar block ✓ Sympathetic block ✓ Caudal block Avoid use of multiple-dose vials of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection for caudal or epidural anesthesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] . DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION The dose of any local anesthetic administered varies with the anesthetic procedure, the area to be anesthetized, the vascularity of the tissues, the number of neuronal segments to be blocked, the depth of anesthesia and degree of muscle relaxation required, the duration of anesthesia desired, individual tolerance, and the physical condition of the patient. The smallest dose and concentration required to produce the desired result should be administered. Dosages of Sensorcaine should be reduced for elderly and/or debilitated patients and patients with cardiac and/or liver disease. The rapid injection of a large volume of local anesthetic solution should be avoided and fractional (incremental) doses should be used when feasible. For specific techniques and procedures, refer to standard textbooks. Sensorcaine is not approved for this use (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). In recommended doses, Sensorcaine (bupivacaine HCl) produces complete sensory block, but the effect on motor function differs among the three concentrations. 0.25%—when used for caudal, epidural, or peripheral nerve block, produces incomplete motor block. Onset of action may be slower than with the 0.5% or 0.75% solutions. 0.5%—provides motor blockade for caudal, epidural, or nerve block, but muscle relaxation may be inadequate for operations in which complete muscle relaxation is essential. 0.75%—produces complete motor block. The duration of anesthesia with Sensorcaine is such that for most indications, a single dose is sufficient. Maximum dosage limit must be individualized in each case after evaluating the size and physical status of the patient, as well as the usual rate of systemic absorption from a particular injection site. Most experience to date is with single doses of Sensorcaine up to 225 mg with epinephrine 1:200,000 and 175 mg without epinephrine; more or less drug may be used depending on individualization of each case. These doses may be repeated up to once every three hours. In clinical studies to date, total daily doses have been up to 400 mg. Until further experience is gained, this dose should not be exceeded in 24 hours. The dosages in Table 1 have generally proved satisfactory and are recommended as a guide for use in the average adult. These dosages should be reduced for elderly or debilitated patients. Until further experience is gained, Sensorcaine is not recommended for pediatric patients younger than 12 years. Sensorcaine is contraindicated for obstetrical paracervical blocks, and is not recommended for intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier Block). Use in Epidural Anesthesia During epidural administration of Sensorcaine, 0.5% and 0.75% solutions should be administered in incremental doses of 3 mL to 5 mL with sufficient time between doses to detect toxic manifestations of unintentional intravascular or intrathecal injection. In obstetrics, only the 0.5% and 0.25% concentrations should be used; incremental doses of 3 mL to 5 mL of the 0.5% solution not exceeding 50 mg to 100 mg at any dosing interval are recommended. Repeat doses should be preceded by a test dose containing epinephrine if not contraindicated. Use only the single dose ampules and single dose vials for caudal or epidural anesthesia; the multiple dose vials contain a preservative and therefore should not be used for these procedures. Use in Dentistry The 0.5% concentration with epinephrine is recommended for infiltration and block injection in the maxillary and mandibular area when a longer duration of local anesthetic action is desired, such as for oral surgical procedures generally associated with significant postoperative pain. The average dose of 1.8 mL (9 mg) per injection site will usually suffice; an occasional second dose of 1.8 mL (9 mg) may be used if necessary to produce adequate anesthesia after making allowance for 2 to 10 minutes onset time (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). The lowest effective dose should be employed and time should be allowed between injections; it is recommended that the total dose for all injection sites, spread out over a single dental sitting, should not ordinarily exceed 90 mg for a healthy adult patient (ten 1.8 mL injections of 0.5% sensorcaine with epinephrine). Injections should be made slowly and with frequent aspirations. Until further experience is gained, sensorcaine in dentistry is not recommended for pediatric patients younger than 12 years. Unused portions of solution not containing preservatives, i.e., those supplied in single dose ampules and single dose vials, should be discarded following initial use. This product should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Solutions which are discolored or which contain particulate matter should not be administered. Table2.jpg ( 2.1 , 5.4 ) See full prescribing information for: - Recommended concentrations and dosages of bupivacaine hydrochloride injection according to type of block. ( 2.2 ) - Additional dosage and administration information pertaining to use in epidural anesthesia and use in ophthalmic surgery. ( 2.3 , 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information Bupivacaine hydrochloride injection is not for intrathecal use. Avoid use of bupivacaine hydrochloride injection solutions containing antimicrobial preservatives (i.e., multiple-dose vials) for epidural or caudal anesthesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Use bupivacaine hydrochloride injection only if the following are immediately available: oxygen, cardiopulmonary resuscitative equipment and drugs, and the personnel resources needed for proper management of toxic reactions and related emergencies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6) , Overdosage (10) ]. Types of Block and Recommended Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Concentrations Type of Block B upivacaine Hydrochloride Injection 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL)* * Bupivacaine hydrochloride injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) is not recommended for non-obstetrical surgical procedures in pregnant patients. ** Avoid use of multiple-dose vials of bupivacaine hydrochloride injection for caudal or epidural anesthesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . ✓= Indicated use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Local infiltration ✓ Peripheral nerve block ✓ ✓ Retrobulbar block ✓ Sympathetic block ✓ Caudal block** ✓ ✓ Lumbar epidural block** ✓ ✓ ✓ (not for obstetrical anesthesia) At recommended dosages, bupivacaine hydrochloride injection produces complete sensory block, but the effect on motor function differs among the three concentrations. Recommended Concentrations and Doses of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection in Adults Type of Block Concentration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Each Dose Motor Block a mL mg of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection a With continuous (intermittent) techniques, repeat doses increase the degree of motor block. Local infiltration 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) b Up to 70 Up to 175 - Peripheral nerve block 0.5% (5 mg/mL) b 5 to 35 25 to 175 moderate to complete 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) b 5 to 70 12.5 to 175 moderate to complete Retrobulbar block [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) 2 to 4 15 to 30 complete Sympathetic block 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 20 to 50 50 to 125 - Caudal block 0.5% (5 mg/mL) b 15 to 30 75 to 150 moderate to complete 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) b 15 to 30 37.5 to 75 moderate Lumbar epidural block [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) c 10 to 20 75 to 150 complete 0.5% (5 mg/mL) b 10 to 20 50 to 100 moderate to complete 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) b 10 to 20 25 to 50 partial to moderate 2.3 Use in Epidural Anesthesia During epidural administration, administer bupivacaine hydrochloride injection, 0.5% (5 mg/mL) and bupivacaine hydrochloride injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) solutions in incremental doses of 3 mL to 5 mL with sufficient time between doses to detect toxic manifestations of unintentional intravascular or intrathecal injection. Use only the single-dose vials for caudal or epidural anesthesia; avoid use of the multiple-dose vials for these procedures, which contain a preservative [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) , Warnings and Precautions (5.4 , 5.9 )] .
Warnings: WARNINGS Serious Neurologic Adverse Reactions with Epidural Administration Serious neurologic events, some resulting in death, have been reported with epidural injection of corticosteroids. Specific events reported include, but are not limited to, spinal cord infarction, paraplegia, quadriplegia, cortical blindness, and stroke. These serious neurologic events have been reported with and without use of fluoroscopy. The safety and effectiveness of epidural administration of corticosteroids have not been established, and corticosteroids are not approved for this use. General This product is not suitable for multi-dose use. Following administration of the desired dose, any remaining suspension should be discarded. Injection of methylprednisolone acetate may result in dermal and/or subdermal changes forming depressions in the skin at the injection site. In order to minimize the incidence of dermal and subdermal atrophy, care must be exercised not to exceed recommended doses in injections. Multiple small injections into the area of the lesion should be made whenever possible. The technique of intra-articular and intramuscular injection should include precautions against injection or leakage into the dermis. Injection into the deltoid muscle should be avoided because of a high incidence of subcutaneous atrophy. It is critical that, during administration of methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension, appropriate technique be used and care taken to ensure proper placement of drug. Rare instances of anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Increased dosage of rapidly acting corticosteroids is indicated in patients on corticosteroid therapy subjected to any unusual stress before, during, and after the stressful situation. Results from one multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled study with methylprednisolone hemisuccinate, an IV corticosteroid, showed an increase in early (at 2 weeks) and late (at 6 months) mortality in patients with cranial trauma who were determined not to have other clear indications for corticosteroid treatment. High doses of systemic corticosteroids, including methylprednisolone acetate, should not be used for the treatment of traumatic brain injury. Cardio-renal Average and large doses of corticosteroids can cause elevation of blood pressure, salt and water retention, and increased excretion of potassium. These effects are less likely to occur with synthetic derivatives when used in large doses. Dietary salt restriction and potassium supplementation may be necessary. All corticosteroids increase calcium excretion. Literature reports suggest an apparent association between use of corticosteroids and left ventricular free wall rupture after a recent myocardial infarction; therefore, therapy with corticosteroids should be used with great caution in these patients. Endocrine Hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis suppression. Cushing’s syndrome, and Hyperglycemia: Monitor patients for these conditions with chronic use. Corticosteroids can produce reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment. Drug induced secondary adrenocortical insufficiency may be minimized by gradual reduction of dosage. This type of relative insufficiency may persist for months after discontinuation of therapy; therefore, in any situation of stress occurring during that period, hormone therapy should be reinstituted. Infections General Persons who are on corticosteroids are more susceptible to infections than are healthy individuals. There may be decreased resistance and inability to localize infection when corticosteroids are used. Infections with any pathogen (viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan, or helminthic) in any location of the body, may be associated with the use of corticosteroids alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents. These infections may be mild, but can be severe and at times fatal. With increasing doses of corticosteroids, the rate of occurrence of infectious complications increases. Do not use intra-articularly, intrabursally, or for intratendinous administration for local effect in the presence of an acute infection. Corticosteroids may mask some signs of infection and new infections may appear during their use. Fungal Infections Corticosteroids may exacerbate systemic fungal infections and therefore should not be used in the presence of such infections unless they are needed to control drug interactions. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions , Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents ). Special Pathogens Latent disease may be activated or there may be an exacerbation of intercurrent infections due to pathogens, including those caused by Amoeba, Candida, Cryptococcus, Mycobacterium, Nocardia, Pneumocystis, and Toxoplasma. It is recommended that latent amebiasis or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating corticosteroid therapy in any patient who has spent time in the tropics or in any patient with unexplained diarrhea. Similarly, corticosteroids should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides (threadworm) infestation. In such patients, corticosteroid-induced immunosuppression may lead to Strongyloides hyperinfection and dissemination with widespread larval migration, often accompanied by severe enterocolitis and potentially fatal gram-negative septicemia. Corticosteroids should not be used in cerebral malaria. There is currently no evidence of benefit from steroids in this condition. Tuberculosis The use of corticosteroids in active tuberculosis should be restricted to those cases of fulminating or disseminated tuberculosis in which the corticosteroid is used for the management of the disease in conjunction with an appropriate antituberculous regimen. If corticosteroids are indicated in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, close observation is necessary, as reactivation of the disease may occur. During prolonged corticosteroid therapy, these patients should receive chemoprophylaxis. Vaccinations Administration of live or live, attenuated vaccines is contraindicated in patients receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids. Killed or inactivated vaccines may be administered. However, the response to such vaccines cannot be predicted. Immunization procedures may be undertaken in patients who are receiving corticosteroids as replacement therapy (e.g., for Addison’s disease). Viral Infections Chicken pox and measles can have a more serious or even fatal course in pediatric and adult patients on corticosteroids. In pediatric and adult patients who have not had these diseases, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If exposed to chicken pox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If exposed to measles, prophylaxis with immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated (see the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information). If chicken pox develops, treatment with antiviral agents should be considered. Ophthalmic Use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts, glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves, and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to bacteria, fungi, or viruses. The use of systemic corticosteroids is not recommended in the treatment of optic neuritis and may lead to an increase in the risk of new episodes. Corticosteroids should be used cautiously in patients with ocular herpes simplex because of corneal perforation. Corticosteroids should not be used in active ocular herpes simplex. WARNINGS LIDOCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE INJECTION FOR INFILTRATION AND NERVE BLOCK SHOULD BE EMPLOYED ONLY BY CLINICIANS WHO ARE WELL VERSED IN DIAGNOSIS AND MANAGEMENT OF DOSE-RELATED TOXICITY AND OTHER ACUTE EMERGENCIES THAT MIGHT ARISE FROM THE BLOCK TO BE EMPLOYED AND THEN ONLY AFTER ENSURING THE IMMEDIATE AVAILABILITY OF OXYGEN, OTHER RESUSCITATIVE DRUGS, CARDIOPULMONARY EQUIPMENT AND THE PERSONNEL NEEDED FOR PROPER MANAGEMENT OF TOXIC REACTIONS AND RELATED EMERGENCIES (see also ADVERSE REACTIONS and PRECAUTIONS ). DELAY IN PROPER MANAGEMENT OF DOSE-RELATED TOXICITY, UNDERVENTILATION FROM ANY CAUSE AND/OR ALTERED SENSITIVITY MAY LEAD TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF ACIDOSIS, CARDIAC ARREST AND, POSSIBLY, DEATH. Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use. Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia, patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia, cardiac or pulmonary compromise, infants under 6 months of age, and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition. If local anesthetics must be used in these patients, close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended. Signs of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure, and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and/or abnormal coloration of the blood. Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise; therefore, immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects, including seizures, coma, arrhythmias, and death. Discontinue lidocaine hydrochloride and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of the signs and symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care, i.e., oxygen therapy, hydration. A more severe clinical presentation may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. Intra-articular infusions of local anesthetics following arthroscopic and other surgical procedures is an unapproved use, and there have been post-marketing reports of chondrolysis in patients receiving such infusions. The majority of reported cases of chondrolysis have involved the shoulder joint; cases of gleno-humeral chondrolysis have been described in pediatric and adult patients following intra-articular infusions of local anesthetics with and without epinephrine for periods of 48 to 72 hours. There is insufficient information to determine whether shorter infusion periods are not associated with these findings. The time of onset of symptoms, such as joint pain, stiffness and loss of motion can be variable, but may begin as early as the 2 nd month after surgery. Currently, there is no effective treatment for chondrolysis; patients who experienced chondrolysis have required additional diagnostic and therapeutic procedures and some required arthroplasty or shoulder replacement. To avoid intravascular injection, aspiration should be performed before the local anesthetic solution is injected. The needle must be repositioned until no return of blood can be elicited by aspiration. Note, however, that the absence of blood in the syringe does not guarantee that intravascular injection has been avoided. Anaphylactic reactions may occur following administration of lidocaine hydrochloride (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). In the case of severe reaction, discontinue the use of the drug. Warnings: FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY WARNINGS Intravenous administration of Sterile Water for Injection without a solute may result in hemolysis. Warnings For external use only Flammable - keep away from fire or flame Do not use with electrocautery procedures When using this product do not get into eyes apply over large areas of the body in case of deep or puncture wounds, animal bites or serious burns consult a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if condition persists or gets worse or lasts for more than 72 hours do not use longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. WARNINGS Methemoglobinemia : Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use. If local anesthetics must be used in these patients, close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended.Signs of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure, and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and/or abnormal coloration of the blood. Discontinue Sensorcaine and any other oxidizing agents. A more severe clinical presentation may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen.Sensorcaine with epinephrine 1:200,000 contains sodium metabisulfite, a sulfite that may cause allergic- type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people. The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low. Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people. Sensorcaine and Sensorcaine - MPF without epinephrine single dose vials do not contain sodium metabisulfite. Image1.jpg
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is contraindicated in: obstetrical paracervical block anesthesia. Its use in this technique has resulted in fetal bradycardia and death. intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier Block) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. patients with a known hypersensitivity to bupivacaine or to any local anesthetic agent of the amide-type or to other components of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection. Obstetrical paracervical block anesthesia. ( 4 ) Intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier Block). ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to bupivacaine or to any local anesthetic agent of the amide-type or to other components of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection. ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to the product and its constituents. Intramuscular corticosteroid preparations are contraindicated for idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura. Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is contraindicated for intrathecal administration. This formulation of methylprednisolone acetate has been associated with reports of severe medical events when administered by this route. Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is contraindicated in systemic fungal infections, except when administered as an intra-articular injection for localized joint conditions (see WARNINGS : Infections, Fungal Infections ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Lidocaine hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type. CONTRAINDICATIONS Sterile Water for Injection, USP must be made approximately isotonic prior to use. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is contraindicated in: • obstetrical paracervical block anesthesia. • intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier Block) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. • patients with a known hypersensitivity to bupivacaine or to any local anesthetic agent of the amide-type or to other components of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection. • Obstetrical paracervical block anesthesia. ( 4 ) • Intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier Block). ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to bupivacaine or to any local anesthetic agent of the amide-type or to other components of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Bupivacaine hydrochloride injection is contraindicated in: obstetrical paracervical block anesthesia. intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier Block) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. patients with a known hypersensitivity to bupivacaine or to any local anesthetic agent of the amide-type or to other components of bupivacaine hydrochloride injection. (4) Intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier Block).(4) Known hypersensitivity to bupivacaine or to any local anesthetic agent of the amide-type or to other components of bupivacaine hydrochloride injection. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Bupivacaine hydrochloride is contraindicated in: obstetrical paracervical block anesthesia. intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier Block) [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Bupivacaine hydrochloride is contraindicated in: • obstetrical paracervical block anesthesia. • patients with a known hypersensitivity to bupivacaine or to any local anesthetic agent of the amide-type or to other components of bupivacaine hydrochloride. ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to bupivacaine or to any local anesthetic agent of the amide-type or to other components of bupivacaine. CONTRAINDICATIONS Sensorcaine (bupivacaine HCl) is contraindicated in obstetrical paracervical block anesthesia. Sensorcaine is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to it or to any local anesthetic agent of the amide-type or to other components of bupivacaine solutions. intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier Block) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to bupivacaine or to any local anesthetic agent of the amide-type or to other components of bupivacaine hydrochloride injection.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Local Anesthetics : The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. Monitor for neurologic and cardiovascular effects when additional local anesthetics are administered. ( 7.1 ) Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants : Administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. Concurrent use of these agents should generally be avoided. ( 5.6 , 7.2 ) Ergot-Type Oxytocic Drugs : Concurrent administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and ergot-type oxytocic drugs may cause severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents. ( 5.6 , 7.3 ) Nonselective Beta-Adrenergic Antagonists : Administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection (containing a vasoconstrictor) in patients receiving nonselective beta-adrenergic antagonists may cause severe hypertension and bradycardia. ( 5.6 , 7.4 ) Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia : Patients are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to nitrates, nitrites, local anesthetics, antineoplastic agents, antibiotics, antimalarials, anticonvulsants, and other drugs. ( 7.5 ) Potent Inhalation Anesthetics : Serious dose-related cardiac arrhythmias may occur if preparations containing a vasoconstrictor such as epinephrine are used in patients during or following the administration of potent inhalation anesthetics. ( 5.13 , 7.6 ) 7.1 Local Anesthetics The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. If coadministration of other local anesthetics with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection cannot be avoided, monitor patients for neurologic and cardiovascular effects related to local anesthetic systemic toxicity [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants The administration Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors, or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful monitoring of the patient's hemodynamic status is essential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . 7.3 Ergot-Type Oxytocic Drugs Concurrent administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and ergot-type oxytocic drugs may cause severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents. Avoid use of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine concomitantly with ergot-type oxytocic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. 7.4 Nonselective Beta-Adrenergic Antagonists Administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection (containing a vasoconstrictor) in patients receiving nonselective beta-adrenergic antagonists may cause severe hypertension and bradycardia. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful monitoring of the patient's blood pressure and heart rate is essential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. 7.5 Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia Patients who are administered Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to following drugs, which could include other local anesthetics [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia: Class Examples Nitrates/Nitrites nitric oxide, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, nitrous oxide Local anesthetics articaine, benzocaine, bupivacaine, lidocaine, mepivacaine, prilocaine, procaine, ropivacaine, tetracaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide, flutamide, hydroxyurea, isofamide, rasburicase Antibiotics dapsone, nitrofurantoin, para-aminosalicylic acid, sulfonamides Antimalarials chloroquine, primaquine Anticonvulsants phenobarbital, phenytoin, sodium valproate Other drugs acetaminophen, metoclopramide, quinine, sulfasalazine 7.6 Potent Inhalation Anesthetics Serious dose-related cardiac arrhythmias may occur if preparations containing a vasoconstrictor such as epinephrine (e.g., Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection) are used in patients during or following the administration of potent inhalation anesthetics [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] . 7.7 Phenothiazines and Butyrophenones Phenothiazines and butyrophenones may reduce or reverse the pressor effect of epinephrine. Concurrent use of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and these agents should generally be avoided. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful patient monitoring is essential. Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide : Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents: When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium depleting agents (e.g., amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics : Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions , Hepatic Enzyme Inhibitors ). Anticholinesterases: Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants , oral : Co-administration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics: Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentration, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular drugs: Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine: Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of oral corticosteroids. Cyclosporine: Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis glycosides: Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, including oral contraceptives: Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin): Drugs which induce cytochrome P450 3A4 enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Hepatic Enzyme Inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin and troleandomycin): Drugs which inhibit cytochrome P450 3A4 have the potential to result in increased plasma concentrations of corticosteroids. Ketoconazole : Ketoconazole has been reported to significantly decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) : Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Skin tests : Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Vaccines : Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS : Infections, Vaccinations ). Clinically Significant Drug Interactions The administration of local anesthetic solutions containing epinephrine or norepinephrine to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. Phenothiazines and butyrophenones may reduce or reverse the pressor effect of epinephrine. Concurrent administration of vasopressor drugs (for the treatment of hypotension related to obstetric blocks) and ergot-type oxytocic drugs may cause severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Local Anesthetics : The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. ( 7.1 ) • Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants : Administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. ( 5.6 , 7.2 ) • Ergot-Type Oxytocic Drugs : Concurrent administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and ergot-type oxytocic drugs may cause severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents. ( 5.6 , 7.3 ) • Nonselective Beta-Adrenergic Antagonists : Administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection (containing a vasoconstrictor) in patients receiving nonselective beta-adrenergic antagonists may cause severe hypertension and bradycardia. ( 5.6 , 7.4 ) • Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia : Patients are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to nitrates, nitrites, local anesthetics, antineoplastic agents, antibiotics, antimalarials, anticonvulsants, and other drugs. ( 7.5 ) • Potent Inhalation Anesthetics : Serious dose-related cardiac arrhythmias may occur if preparations containing a vasoconstrictor such as epinephrine are used in patients during or following the administration of potent inhalation anesthetics. 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants The administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors, or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. 7.5 Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia Patients who are administered Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following drugs, which could include other local anesthetics [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia: Class Examples Nitrates/Nitrites nitric oxide, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, nitrous oxide Local anesthetics articaine, benzocaine, bupivacaine, lidocaine, mepivacaine, prilocaine, procaine, ropivacaine, tetracaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide, flutamide, hydroxyurea, ifosfamide, rasburicase Antibiotics dapsone, nitrofurantoin, para-aminosalicylic acid, sulfonamides Antimalarials chloroquine, primaquine Anticonvulsants phenobarbital, phenytoin, sodium valproate Other drugs acetaminophen, metoclopramide, quinine, sulfasalazine 7.6 Potent Inhalation Anesthetics Serious dose-related cardiac arrhythmias may occur if preparations containing a vasoconstrictor such as epinephrine (e.g., Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection) are used in patients during or following the administration of potent inhalation anesthetics [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] . (7.1) • Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia : Patients are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to nitrates, nitrites, local anesthetics, antineoplastic agents, antibiotics, antimalarials, anticonvulsants, and other drugs. (7.5) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Local Anesthetics The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. If coadministration of other local anesthetics with bupivacaine hydrochloride cannot be avoided, monitor patients for neurologic and cardiovascular effects related to local anesthetic systemic toxicity [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ]. 7.5 Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia Patients who are administered bupivacaine hydrochloride are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to following drugs, which could include other local anesthetics [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ]. DRUG INTERACTION TABLE ( 7.1 ) • Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia : Patients are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to nitrates, nitrites, local anesthetics, antineoplastic agents, antibiotics, antimalarials, anticonvulsants, and other drugs. ( 7.6 ) 7.1 Local Anesthetics The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. If coadministration of other local anesthetics with bupivacaine hydrochloride cannot be avoided, monitor patients for neurologic and cardiovascular effects related to local anesthetic systemic toxicity [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 7.5 Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia Patients who are administered bupivacaine hydrochloride are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to following drugs, which could include other local anesthetics [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia: Class Examples Nitrates/Nitrites nitric oxide, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, nitrous oxide Local anesthetics articaine, benzocaine, bupivacaine, lidocaine, mepivacaine, prilocaine, procaine, ropivacaine, tetracaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide, flutamide, hydroxyurea, isofamide, rasburicase Antibiotics dapsone, nitrofurantoin, para-aminosalicylic acid, sulfonamides Antimalarials chloroquine, primaquine Anticonvulsants phenobarbital, phenytoin, sodium valproate Other drugs acetaminophen, metoclopramide, quinine, sulfasalazine 7.6 Potent Inhalation Anesthetics Serious dose-related cardiac arrhythmias may occur if preparations containing a vasoconstrictor such as epinephrine are used in patients during or following the administration of potent inhalation anesthetics. ( 7.1 ) Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia : Patients are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to nitrates, nitrites, local anesthetics, antineoplastic agents, antibiotics, antimalarials, anticonvulsants, and other drugs. ( 7.5 ) 7.1 Local Anesthetics The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. If coadministration of other local anesthetics with bupivacaine hydrochloride cannot be avoided, monitor patients for neurologic and cardiovascular effects related to local anesthetic systemic toxicity [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia: Class Examples Nitrates/Nitrites nitric oxide, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, nitrous oxide Local anesthetics articaine, benzocaine, bupivacaine, lidocaine, mepivacaine, prilocaine, procaine, ropivacaine, tetracaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide, flutamide, hydroxyurea, isofamide, rasburicase Antibiotics dapsone, nitrofurantoin, para-aminosalicylic acid, sulfonamides Antimalarials chloroquine, primaquine Anticonvulsants phenobarbital, phenytoin, sodium valproate Other drugs acetaminophen, metoclopramide, quinine, sulfasalazine

=== GUAIFENESIN AND DEXTROMETHORPHAN HBR ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Cough suppressant Expectorant Purposes Cough suppressant Expectorant Active ingredients (in each extended-release tablet) Purposes Dextromethorphan HBr 60 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 1200 mg Expectorant Active ingredients (in each extended-release tablet) Purposes Dextromethorphan HBr 30 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 600 mg Expectorant
Indications: Uses helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive temporarily relieves: cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants the intensity of coughing the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep Uses • helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • temporarily relieves: • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the intensity of coughing • the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep
Dosage: Directions do not crush, chew, or break tablet take with a full glass of water this product can be administered without regard for timing of meals adults and children 12 years and older: 1 or 2 tablets every 12 hours; not more than 4 tablets in 24 hours children under 12 years of age: do not use Directions do not crush, chew, or break extended-release tablet take with a full glass of water this product can be administered without regard for timing of meals adults and children 12 years and older: 1 extended-release tablet every 12 hours; not more than 2 extended-release tablets in 24 hours children under 12 years of age: do not use Directions • do not crush, chew, or break extended-release tablet • take with a full glass of water • this product can be administered without regard for timing of meals • adults and children 12 years and older: 1 extended-release tablet every 12 hours; not more than 2 extended-release tablets in 24 hours • children under 12 years of age: do not use Other information • Store between 20-25°C (68-77°F) Directions do not crush, chew, or break extended-release tablet take with a full glass of water this product can be administered without regard for timing of meals adults and children 12 years and older: 1 or 2 extended-release tablets every 12 hours; not more than 4 extended-release tablets in 24 hours children under 12 years of age: do not use
Warnings: Warnings Do not use for children under 12 years of age if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product. Warnings Do not use • for children under 12 years of age • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. Ask a doctor before use if you have • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema • cough accompanied by too much phlegm (mucus) When using this product • Do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • cough lasts more than 7 days, comes back, or occurs with fever, rash, or persistent headache. These could be signs of a serious illness. Pregnancy or Breast Feeding If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep Out of Reach of Children In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Warnings Do not use for children under 12 years of age if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. Ask a doctor before use if you have persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema cough accompanied by too much phlegm (mucus) When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days, comes back, or occurs with fever, rash, or persistent headache. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222).

=== METOCLOPRAMIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE The use of Metoclopramide Oral Solution is recommended for adults only. Therapy should not exceed 12 weeks in duration. Symptomatic Gastroesophageal Reflux Metoclopramide Oral Solution is indicated as short-term (4 to 12 weeks) therapy for adults with symptomatic, documented gastroesophageal reflux who fail to respond to conventional therapy. The principal effect of metoclopramide is on symptoms of post-prandial and daytime heartburn with less observed effect on nocturnal symptoms. If symptoms are confined to particular situations, such as following the evening meal, use of metoclopramide as single doses prior to the provocative situation should be considered, rather than using the drug throughout the day. Healing of esophageal ulcers and erosions has been endoscopically demonstrated at the end of 12-week trial using doses of 15 mg 4 times daily. As there is no documented correlation between symptoms and healing of esophageal lesions, patients with documented lesions should be monitored endoscopically. Diabetic Gastroparesis (Diabetic Gastric Stasis) Metoclopramide is indicated for the relief of symptoms associated with acute and recurrent diabetic gastric stasis. The usual manifestations of delayed gastric emptying (e.g., nausea, vomiting, heartburn, persistent fullness after meals, and anorexia) appear to respond to metoclopramide within different time intervals. Significant relief of nausea occurs early and continues to improve over a three-week period. Relief of vomiting and anorexia may precede the relief of abdominal fullness by one week or more. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Diabetic Gastroparesis (Diabetic Gastric Stasis) Metoclopramide is indicated for the relief of symptoms associated with acute and recurrent diabetic gastric stasis. The Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated with Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy Metoclopramide Injection, USP is indicated for the prophylaxis of vomiting associated with emetogenic cancer chemotherapy. The Prevention of Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting Metoclopramide Injection, USP is indicated for the prophylaxis of postoperative nausea and vomiting in those circumstances where nasogastric suction is undesirable. Small Bowel Intubation Metoclopramide Injection, USP may be used to facilitate small bowel intubation in adults and pediatric patients in whom the tube does not pass the pylorus with conventional maneuvers. Radiological Examination Metoclopramide Injection, USP may be used to stimulate gastric emptying and intestinal transit of barium in cases where delayed emptying interferes with radiological examination of the stomach and/or small intestine. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Diabetic Gastroparesis (Diabetic Gastric Stasis) Metoclopramide injection is indicated for the relief of symptoms associated with acute and recurrent diabetic gastric stasis. The Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated with Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy Metoclopramide injection is indicated for the prophylaxis of vomiting associated with emetogenic cancer chemotherapy. The Prevention of Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting Metoclopramide injection is indicated for the prophylaxis of postoperative nausea and vomiting in those circumstances where nasogastric suction is undesirable. Small Bowel Intubation Metoclopramide injection may be used to facilitate small bowel intubation in adults and pediatric patients in whom the tube does not pass the pylorus with conventional maneuvers. Radiological Examination Metoclopramide injection may be used to stimulate gastric emptying and intestinal transit of barium in cases where delayed emptying interferes with radiological examination of the stomach and/or small intestine. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metoclopramide tablets are indicated for the: Treatment for 4 to 12 weeks of symptomatic, documented gastroesophageal reflux in adults who fail to respond to conventional therapy. Relief of symptoms in adults with acute and recurrent diabetic gastroparesis. Limitations of Use : Metoclopramide tablets are not recommended for use in pediatric patients due to the risk of developing tardive dyskinesia (TD) and other extrapyramidal symptoms as well as the risk of methemoglobinemia in neonates [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ) ]. Metoclopramide tablets are indicated for the: Treatment for 4 to 12 weeks of symptomatic, documented gastroesophageal reflux in adults who fail to respond to conventional therapy. ( 1 ) Relief of symptoms in adults with acute and recurrent diabetic gastroparesis. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use : Metoclopramide tablets are not recommended for use in pediatric patients due to the risk of tardive dyskinesia (TD) and other extrapyramidal symptoms as well as the risk of methemoglobinemia in neonates. ( 1 , 8.4 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metoclopramide is indicated for the: Treatment for 4 to 12 weeks of symptomatic, documented gastroesophageal reflux in adults who fail to respond to conventional therapy. Metoclopramide is indicated for the: Treatment for 4 to 12 weeks of symptomatic, documented gastroesophageal reflux in adults who fail to respond to conventional therapy. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use : Metoclopramide is not recommended for use in pediatric patients due to the risk of tardive dyskinesia (TD) and other extrapyramidal symptoms as well as the risk of methemoglobinemia in neonates. ( 1 , 8.4 ) Limitations of Use : Metoclopramide is not recommended for use in pediatric patients due to the risk of developing tardive dyskinesia (TD) and other extrapyramidal symptoms as well as the risk of methemoglobinemia in neonates [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. Symptomatic Gastroesophageal Reflux Metoclopramide Oral Solution USP is indicated as short-term (4 to 12 weeks) therapy for adults with symptomatic, documented gastroesophageal reflux who fail to respond to conventional therapy. The principal effect of metoclopramide is on symptoms of postprandial and daytime heartburn with less observed effect on nocturnal symptoms. Healing of esophageal ulcers and erosions has been endoscopically demonstrated at the end of a 12-week trial using doses of 15 mg q.i.d.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Therapy with metoclopramide oral solution should not exceed 12 weeks in duration. For the Relief of Symptomatic Gastroesophageal Reflux Administer from 10 mg to 15 mg metoclopramide orally up to 4 times daily 30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime, depending upon symptoms being treated and clinical response (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and INDICATIONS AND USAGE ). If symptoms occur only intermittently or at specific times of the day, use of metoclopramide in single doses up to 20 mg prior to the provoking situation may be preferred rather than continuous treatment. Occasionally, patients (such as elderly patients) who are more sensitive to the therapeutic or adverse effects of metoclopramide will require only 5 mg per dose. Experience with esophageal erosions and ulcerations is limited, but healing has thus far been documented in one controlled trial using 4 times daily therapy at 15 mg/dose, and this regimen should be used when lesions are present, so long as it is tolerated (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Because of the poor correlation between symptoms and endoscopic appearance of the esophagus, therapy directed at esophageal lesions is best guided by endoscopic evaluation. Therapy longer than 12 weeks has not been evaluated and cannot be recommended. For the Relief of Symptoms Associated with Diabetic Gastroparesis (Diabetic Gastric Stasis) Administer 10 mg of metoclopramide 30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime for two to eight weeks, depending upon response and the likelihood of continued well-being upon drug discontinuation. The initial route of administration should be determined by the severity of the presenting symptoms. If only the earliest manifestations of diabetic gastric stasis are present, oral administration of metoclopramide may be initiated. However, if severe symptoms are present, therapy should begin with metoclopramide injection (consult labeling of the injection prior to initiating parenteral administration). Administration of metoclopramide injection up to 10 days maybe required before symptoms subside at which time oral administration may be instituted. Since diabetic gastric stasis is frequently recurrent, metoclopramide therapy should be reinstituted at the earliest manifestation. Use in Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment Since metoclopramide is excreted principally through the kidneys, in those patients whose creatinine clearance is below 40 mL/min, therapy should be initiated at approximately one-half the recommended dosage. Depending upon clinical efficacy and safety considerations, the dosage may be increased or decreased as appropriate. See OVERDOSAGE section for information regarding dialysis. Metoclopramide undergoes minimal hepatic metabolism, except for simple conjugation. Its safe use has been described in patients with advanced liver disease whose renal function was normal. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For the Relief of Symptoms Associated with Diabetic Gastroparesis (Diabetic Gastric Stasis) If only the earliest manifestations of diabetic gastric stasis are present, oral administration of metoclopramide may be initiated. However, if severe symptoms are present, therapy should begin with metoclopramide injection (IM or IV). Doses of 10 mg may be administered slowly by the intravenous route over a 1 to 2 minute period. Administration of Metoclopramide Injection, USP up to 10 days may be required before symptoms subside, at which time oral administration of metoclopramide may be instituted. The physician should make a thorough assessment of the risks and benefits prior to prescribing further metoclopramide treatment. For the Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated with Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy Intravenous infusions should be made slowly over a period of not less than 15 minutes, 30 minutes before beginning cancer chemotherapy and repeated every 2 hours for two doses, then every 3 hours for three doses. The initial two doses should be 2 mg/kg if highly emetogenic drugs such as cisplatin or dacarbazine are used alone or in combination. For less emetogenic regimens, 1 mg/kg per dose may be adequate. For doses in excess of 10 mg, Metoclopramide Injection, USP should be diluted in 50 mL of a parenteral solution. The preferred parenteral solution is Sodium Chloride Injection (normal saline), which when combined with Metoclopramide Injection, USP, can be stored frozen for up to 4 weeks. Metoclopramide Injection, USP is degraded when admixed and frozen with Dextrose-5% in Water. Metoclopramide Injection, USP diluted in Sodium Chloride Injection, Dextrose-5% in Water, Dextrose-5% in 0.45% Sodium Chloride, Ringer’s Injection, or Lactated Ringer’s Injection may be stored up to 48 hours (without freezing) after preparation if protected from light. All dilutions may be stored unprotected from light under normal light conditions up to 24 hours after preparation. If acute dystonic reactions should occur, inject 50 mg Benadryl ® (diphenhydramine hydrochloride) intramuscularly, and the symptoms usually will subside. For the Prevention of Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting Metoclopramide Injection, USP should be given intramuscularly near the end of surgery. The usual adult dose is 10 mg; however, doses of 20 mg may be used. To Facilitate Small Bowel Intubation If the tube has not passed the pylorus with conventional maneuvers in 10 minutes, a single dose (undiluted) may be administered slowly by the intravenous route over a 1 to 2 minute period. The recommended single dose is: Pediatric patients above 14 years of age and adults – 10 mg metoclopramide base. Pediatric patients (6 to 14 years of age) – 2.5 to 5 mg metoclopramide base; (under 6 years of age) – 0.1 mg/kg metoclopramide base. To Aid in Radiological Examinations In patients where delayed gastric emptying interferes with radiological examination of the stomach and/or small intestine, a single dose may be administered slowly by the intravenous route over a 1 to 2 minute period. For dosage, see intubation, above. NOTE: Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. ADMIXTURE COMPATIBILITIES Metoclopramide Injection, USP is compatible for mixing and injection with the following dosage forms to the extent indicated below: Physically and Chemically Compatible Up to 48 Hours Cimetidine Hydrochloride (SK&F), Mannitol, USP (Hospira), Potassium Acetate, USP (Invenex), Potassium Phosphate, USP (Invenex). Physically Compatible Up to 48 Hours Ascorbic Acid, USP (Hospira), Benztropine Mesylate, USP (MS&D), Cytarabine, USP (Upjohn), Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate, USP (ESI, MS&D), Diphenhydramine Hydrochloride, USP (Parke-Davis), Doxorubicin Hydrochloride, USP (Adria), Heparin Sodium, USP (ESI), Hydrocortisone Sodium Phosphate (MS&D), Lidocaine Hydrochloride, USP (ESI), Multi-Vitamin Infusion (must be refrigerated-USV), Vitamin B Complex with Ascorbic Acid (Roche). Physically Compatible Up to 24 Hours ( Do not use if precipitation occurs ) Clindamycin Phosphate, USP (Upjohn), Cyclophosphamide, USP (Mead-Johnson), Insulin, USP (Lilly). Conditionally Compatible ( Use within one hour after mixing or may be infused directly into the same running IV line ) Ampicillin Sodium, USP (Bristol), Cisplatin (Bristol), Erythromycin Lactobionate, USP (Hospira), Methotrexate Sodium, USP (Lederle), Penicillin G Potassium, USP (Squibb), Tetracycline Hydrochloride, USP (Lederle). Incompatible ( Do Not Mix ) Cephalothin Sodium, USP (Lilly), Chloramphenicol Sodium, USP (Parke-Davis), Sodium Bicarbonate, USP (Hospira). Doses of 10 mg may be administered slowly by the intravenous route over a 1- to 2-minute period. Administration of metoclopramide injection up to 10 days may be required before symptoms subside, at which time oral administration of metoclopramide may be instituted. For doses in excess of 10 mg, metoclopramide injection should be diluted in 50 mL of a parenteral solution. The preferred parenteral solution is Sodium Chloride Injection (normal saline), which when combined with metoclopramide injection, can be stored frozen for up to 4 weeks. Metoclopramide injection is degraded when admixed and frozen with Dextrose-5% in Water. Metoclopramide injection diluted in Sodium Chloride Injection, Dextrose-5% in Water, Dextrose-5% in 0.45% Sodium Chloride, Ringer’s Injection, or Lactated Ringer’s Injection may be stored up to 48 hours (without freezing) after preparation if protected from light. For the Prevention of Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting Metoclopramide injection should be given intramuscularly near the end of surgery. To Facilitate Small Bowel Intubation If the tube has not passed the pylorus with conventional maneuvers in 10 minutes, a single dose (undiluted) may be administered slowly by the intravenous route over a 1- to 2-minute period. The recommended single dose is: Pediatric patients above 14 years of age and adults — 10 mg metoclopramide base. Pediatric patients (6 to 14 years of age) — 2.5 to 5 mg metoclopramide base; (under 6 years of age) — 0.1 mg/kg metoclopramide base. To Aid in Radiological Examinations In patients where delayed gastric emptying interferes with radiological examination of the stomach and/or small intestine, a single dose may be administered slowly by the intravenous route over a 1- to 2-minute period. For dosage, see intubation above. NOTE: Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. ADMIXTURES COMPATIBILITIES Metoclopramide injection is compatible for mixing and injection with the following dosage forms to the extent indicated below: Physically and Chemically Compatible Up to 48 Hours Cimetidine Hydrochloride (SK&F), Mannitol, USP (Abbott), Potassium Acetate, USP (Invenex), Potassium Phosphate, USP (Invenex). Physically Compatible Up to 48 Hours Ascorbic Acid, USP (Abbott), Benztropine Mesylate, USP (MS&D), Cytarabine, USP (Upjohn), Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate, USP (ESI, MS&D), Diphenhydramine Hydrochloride, USP (Parke-Davis), Doxorubicin Hydrochloride, USP (Adria), Heparin Sodium, USP (ESI), Hydrocortisone Sodium Phosphate (MS&D), Lidocaine Hydrochloride, USP (ESI), Multi-Vitamin Infusion (must be refrigerated-USV), Vitamin B Complex with Ascorbic Acid (Roche). Physically Compatible Up to 24 Hours (Do not use if precipitation occurs) Clindamycin Phosphate, USP (Upjohn), Cyclophosphamide, USP (Mead-Johnson), Insulin, USP (Lilly). Conditionally Compatible (Use within one hour after mixing or may be infused directly into the same running IV line) Ampicillin Sodium, USP (Bristol), Cisplatin (Bristol), Erythromycin Lactobionate, USP (Abbott), Methotrexate Sodium, USP (Lederle), Penicillin G Potassium, USP (Squibb), Tetracycline Hydrochloride, USP (Lederle). Incompatible (Do Not Mix) Cephalothin Sodium, USP (Lilly), Chloramphenicol Sodium, USP (Parke-Davis), Sodium Bicarbonate, USP (Abbott). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Gastroesophageal Reflux ( 2.2 ) Administer metoclopramide continuously or intermittently: Continuous: Administer 10 to 15 mg, 30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime (maximum of 60 mg per day) for 4 to 12 weeks. Intermittent: Single doses up to 20 mg prior to provoking situation. Acute and Recurrent Diabetic Gastroparesis ( 2.3 ) Administer 10 mg, 30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime (maximum of 40 mg per day) for 2 to 8 weeks Dosage Adjustment in Specific Populations ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) For gastroesophageal reflux and acute and recurrent diabetic gastroparesis, see Full Prescribing Information for recommended dosage reductions for elderly patients, in patients with moderate or severe hepatic or renal impairment, and cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6) poor metabolizers. 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Avoid treatment with metoclopramide for longer than 12 weeks because of the increased risk of developing TD with longer-term use [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.3 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. 2.2 Dosage for Gastroesophageal Reflux Metoclopramide tablets may be administered continuously or intermittently in patients with symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux who fail to respond to conventional therapy: Continuous Dosing The recommended adult dosage of metoclopramide is 10 to 15 mg four times daily for 4 to 12 weeks. The treatment duration is determined by endoscopic response. Administer the dosage thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime. The maximum recommended daily dosage is 60 mg. Table 1 displays the recommended daily dosage and maximum daily dosage for adults and dosage adjustments for patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B or C), in patients with creatinine clearance less than 60 mL/minute, in cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6) poor metabolizers, and with concomitant use with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors. Intermittent Dosing If symptoms only occur intermittently or at specific times of the day, administer metoclopramide in single dose up to 20 mg prior to the provoking situation. Consider dosage reductions for the populations and situations in Table 1. Table 1. Recommended Metoclopramide Tablet Dosage in Patients with Gastroesophageal Reflux Recommended Dosage Maximum Recommended Daily Dosage Adult patients 10 to 15 mg four times daily (thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime) 60 mg Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A) Elderly patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 ) ] 5 mg 1 four times daily (thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime) Moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B or C) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) ] 5 mg four times daily (thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime), or 10 mg taken three times daily 30 mg CYP2D6 poor metabolizers [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.9 ) ] Concomitant use with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., quinidine, bupropion, fluoxetine, and paroxetine) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) ] Moderate or severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than or equal to 60 mL/minute) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) ] Patients with End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) including those treated with hemodialysis and continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) ] 5 mg four times daily (thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime) or 10 mg twice daily 20 mg 1 Elderly patients may be more sensitive to the therapeutic or adverse effects of metoclopramide; therefore, consider a lower starting dosage of 5 mg four times daily with titration to the recommended adult dosage of 10 to 15 mg four times daily based upon response and tolerability. 2.3 Dosage for Acute and Recurrent Diabetic Gastroparesis The recommended adult dosage for the treatment of acute and recurrent diabetic gastroparesis is 10 mg four times daily for 2 to 8 weeks, depending on symptomatic response. Avoid metoclopramide treatment for greater than 12 weeks [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. The maximum recommended daily dosage is 40 mg. Table 2 displays the recommended daily dosage and maximum daily dosage for adults and dosage adjustments for patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B or C), in patients with creatinine clearance less than 60 mL/minute, in cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6) poor metabolizers, and with concomitant use with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors. If patients with diabetic gastroparesis have severe nausea or vomiting and are unable to take oral metoclopramide tablets, consider starting therapy with metoclopramide injection given intramuscularly or intravenously for up to 10 days (see the prescribing information for metoclopramide injection). After patients are able to take oral therapy, switch to metoclopramide tablets. Table 2. Recommended Metoclopramide Tablet Dosage in Patients with Acute and Recurrent Diabetic Gastroparesis Recommended Dosage Maximum Recommended Daily Dosage Adult Patients 10 mg four times daily (30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime) 40 mg Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A) Elderly patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 ) ] 5 mg 1 four times daily (30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime) Moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B or C) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) ] 5 mg four times daily (30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime) 20 mg CYP2D6 poor metabolizers [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.9 ) ] Concomitant use with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., quinidine, bupropion, fluoxetine, and paroxetine) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) ] Moderate or severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 60 mL/minute) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) ] Patients with End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) including those treated with hemodialysis and continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) ] 5 mg twice daily 10 mg 1 Elderly patients may be more sensitive to the therapeutic or adverse effects of metoclopramide; therefore, consider a lower dosage of 5 mg four times daily with titration to the recommended adult dosage of 10 mg four times daily based upon response and tolerability. Metoclopramide Injection, USP diluted in Sodium Chloride Injection, Dextrose-5% in Water, Dextrose-5% in 0.45% Sodium Chloride, Ringer's Injection, or Lactated Ringer's Injection may be stored up to 48 hours (without freezing) after preparation if protected from light. 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Avoid treatment with metoclopramide for longer than 12 weeks because of the increased risk of developing TD with longer-term use [see Dosage and Administration (2.2 , 2.3) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 2.2 Dosage for Gastroesophageal Reflux Metoclopramide may be administered continuously or intermittently in patients with symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux who fail to respond to conventional therapy: Continuous Dosing The recommended adult dosage of metoclopramide is 10 to 15 mg four times daily for 4 to 12 weeks. Recommended Metoclopramide Dosage in Patients with Gastroesophageal Reflux Recommended Dosage Maximum Recommended Daily Dosage Adult patients 10 to 15 mg four times daily (thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime) 60 mg Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A) Elderly patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ] 5 mg Elderly patients may be more sensitive to the therapeutic or adverse effects of metoclopramide; therefore, consider a lower starting dosage of 5 mg four times daily with titration to the recommended adult dosage of 10 to 15 mg four times daily based upon response and tolerability. four times daily (thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime) Moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B or C) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] 5 mg four times daily (thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime), or 10 mg taken three times daily 30 mg CYP2D6 poor metabolizers [see Use in Specific Populations (8.9) ] Concomitant use with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., quinidine, bupropion, fluoxetine, and paroxetine) [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] Moderate or severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than or equal to 60 mL/minute) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] Patients with End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) including those treated with hemodialysis and continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] 5 mg four times daily (thirty minutes before each meal and at bedtime) or 10 mg twice daily 20 mg 2.3 Dosage for Acute and Recurrent Diabetic Gastroparesis The recommended adult dosage for the treatment of acute and recurrent diabetic gastroparesis is 10 mg four times daily for 2 to 8 weeks, depending on symptomatic response. Avoid metoclopramide treatment for greater than 12 weeks [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Table 2 displays the recommended daily dosage and maximum daily dosage for adults and dosage adjustments for patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B or C), in patients with creatinine clearance less than 60 mL/minute, in cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6) poor metabolizers, and with concomitant use with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors.Table 2 displays the recommended daily dosage and maximum daily dosage for adults and dosage adjustments for patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B or C), in patients with creatinine clearance less than 60 mL/minute, in cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6) poor metabolizers, and with concomitant use with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors. If patients with diabetic gastroparesis have severe nausea or vomiting and are unable to take metoclopramide, consider starting therapy with metoclopramide injection given intramuscularly or intravenously for up to 10 days (see the prescribing information for metoclopramide injection).If patients with diabetic gastroparesis have severe nausea or vomiting and are unable to take metoclopramide, consider starting therapy with metoclopramide injection given intramuscularly or intravenously for up to 10 days (see the prescribing information for metoclopramide injection). Recommended Metoclopramide Dosage in Patients with Acute and Recurrent Diabetic Gastroparesis Recommended Dosage Maximum Recommended Daily Dosage Adult Patients 10 mg four times daily (30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime) 40 mg Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A) Elderly patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5) ] 5 mg Elderly patients may be more sensitive to the therapeutic or adverse effects of metoclopramide; therefore, consider a lower dosage of 5 mg four times daily with titration to the recommended adult dosage of 10 mg four times daily based upon response and tolerability. four times daily (30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime) Moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B or C) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] 5 mg four times daily (30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime) 20 mg CYP2D6 poor metabolizers [see Use in Specific Populations (8.9) ] Concomitant use with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., quinidine, bupropion, fluoxetine, and paroxetine) [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] Moderate or severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 60 mL/minute) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] Patients with End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD ) including those treated with hemodialysis and continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] 5 mg twice daily 10 mg For the Relief of Symptomatic Gastroesophageal Reflux Administer from 10 mg to 15 mg Metoclopramide Oral Solution USP (orally) up to q.i.d. 30 minutes before each meal and at bedtime, depending upon symptoms being treated and clinical response (see and ). CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY INDICATIONS AND USAGE Experience with esophageal erosions and ulcerations is limited, but healing has thus far been documented in one controlled trial using q.i.d. therapy at 15 mg/dose, and this regimen should be used when lesions are present, so long as it is tolerated (see ). ADVERSE REACTIONS Therapy longer than 12 weeks has not been evaluated and cannot be recommended. Administration of the metoclopramide injection up to 10 days may be required before symptoms subside, at which time oral administration may be instituted. See section for information regarding dialysis. OVERDOSAGE Metoclopramide undergoes minimal hepatic metabolism, except for simple conjugation.
Warnings: WARNINGS Mental depression has occurred in patients with and without prior history of depression. Symptoms have ranged from mild to severe and have included suicidal ideation and suicide. Metoclopramide should be given to patients with a prior history of depression only if the expected benefits outweigh the potential risks. Extrapyramidal symptoms, manifested primarily as acute dystonic reactions, occur in approximately 1 in 500 patients treated with the usual adult dosages of 30 to 40 mg/day of metoclopramide. These usually are seen during the first 24 to 48 hours of treatment with metoclopramide, occur more frequently in pediatric patients and adult patients less than 30 years of age and are even more frequent at the higher doses. These symptoms may include involuntary movements of limbs and facial grimacing, torticollis, oculogyric crisis, rhythmic protrusion of tongue, bulbar type of speech, trismus, or dystonic reactions resembling tetanus. Rarely, dystonic reactions may present as stridor and dyspnea, possibly due to laryngospasm. If these symptoms should occur, inject 50 mg diphenhydramine hydrochloride intramuscularly, and they usually will subside. Benztropine mesylate, 1 to 2 mg intramuscularly, may also be used to reverse these reactions. Parkinsonian-like symptoms have occurred, more commonly within the first 6 months after beginning treatment with metoclopramide, but occasionally after longer periods. These symptoms generally subside within 2 to 3 months following discontinuance of metoclopramide. Patients with preexisting Parkinson’s disease should be given metoclopramide cautiously, if at all, since such patients may experience exacerbation of parkinsonian symptoms when taking metoclopramide. Tardive Dyskinesia (see Boxed Warnings) Treatment with metoclopramide can cause tardive dyskinesia (TD), a potentially irreversible and disfiguring disorder characterized by involuntary movements of the face, tongue, or extremities. The risk of developing tardive dyskinesia increases with duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose. An analysis of utilization patterns showed that about 20% of patients who used metoclopramide took it for longer than 12 weeks. Treatment with metoclopramide for longer than the recommended 12 weeks should be avoided in all but rare cases where therapeutic benefit is thought to outweigh the risk of developing TD. Although the risk of developing TD in the general population may be increased among the elderly, women, and diabetics, it is not possible to predict which patients will develop metoclopramide-induced TD. Both the risk of developing TD and the likelihood that TD will become irreversible increase with duration of treatment and total cumulative dose. Metoclopramide should be discontinued in patients who develop signs or symptoms of TD. There is no known effective treatment for established cases of TD, although in some patients, TD may remit, partially or completely, within several weeks to months after metoclopramide is withdrawn. Metoclopramide itself may suppress, or partially suppress, the signs of TD, thereby masking the underlying disease process. The effect of this symptomatic suppression upon the long term course of TD is unknown. Therefore, metoclopramide should not be used for the symptomatic control of TD. Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) There have been rare reports of an uncommon but potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) associated with metoclopramide. Clinical manifestations of NMS include hyperthermia, muscle rigidity, altered consciousness, and evidence of autonomic instability (irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis and cardiac arrhythmias). The diagnostic evaluation of patients with this syndrome is complicated. In arriving at a diagnosis, it is important to identify cases where the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness (e.g., pneumonia, systemic infection, etc.) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms (EPS). Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity, heat stroke, malignant hyperthermia, drug fever and primary central nervous system (CNS) pathology. The management of NMS should include 1) immediate discontinuation of metoclopramide and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy, 2) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring, and 3) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. Bromocriptine and dantrolene sodium have been used in treatment of NMS, but their effectiveness have not been established (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). WARNINGS Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) There have been rare reports of an uncommon but potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) associated with metoclopramide. Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS) Acute Dystonic Reactions Acute dystonic reactions occur in approximately 1 in 500 patients treated with the usual adult dosages of 30 to 40 mg/day of metoclopramide. These usually are seen during the first 24 to 48 hours of treatment with metoclopramide, occur more frequently in pediatric patients and adult patients less than 30 years of age and are even more frequent at the higher doses used in prophylaxis of vomiting due to cancer chemotherapy. If these symptoms should occur, inject 50 mg Benadryl ® (diphenhydramine hydrochloride) intramuscularly, and they usually will subside. Cogentin ® (benztropine mesylate), 1 to 2 mg intramuscularly, may also be used to reverse these reactions. Tardive Dyskinesia (see Boxed Warnings ) Treatment with metoclopramide can cause tardive dyskinesia (TD), a potentially irreversible and disfiguring disorder characterized by involuntary movements of the face, tongue, or extremities. The risk of tardive dyskinesia increases with the duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose. An analysis of utilization patterns showed that about 20% of patients who used metoclopramide took it longer than 12 weeks. The effect of this symptomatic suppression upon the long-term course of TD is unknown. Parkinsonian-like Symptoms Parkinsonian-like symptoms, including bradykinesia, tremor, cogwheel rigidity, or mask-like facies, have occurred, more commonly within the first 6 months after beginning treatment with metoclopramide, but occasionally after longer periods. Patients with pre-existing Parkinson’s disease should be given metoclopramide cautiously, if at all, since such patients may experience exacerbation of parkinsonian symptoms when taking metoclopramide. Depression Mental depression has occurred in patients with and without prior history of depression. The risk of developing tardive dyskinesia increases with the duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose. Parkinsonian-like Symptoms Parkinsonian-like symptoms, including bradykinesia, tremor, cogwheel rigidity, or mask-like facies, have occurred more commonly within the first 6 months after beginning treatment with metoclopramide, but occasionally after longer periods. Patients with preexisting Parkinson's disease should be given metoclopramide cautiously, if at all, since such patients may experience exacerbation of parkinsonian symptoms when taking metoclopramide. Patients with pre-existing Parkinson's disease should be given metoclopramide cautiously, if at all, since such patients may experience exacerbation of parkinsonian symptoms when taking metoclopramide. If these symptoms should occur, 50 mg of diphenhydramine hydrochloride injection should be given intramuscularly, and they usually will subside. Tardive Dyskinesia (see ) Boxed Warnings Treatment with metoclopramide can cause tardive dyskinesia (TD), a potentially irreversible and disfiguring disorder characterized by involuntary movements of the face, tongue, or extremities. Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome There have been rare reports of an uncommon, but potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) associated with metoclopramide. Bromocriptine and dantrolene sodium have been used in treatment of NMS, but their effectiveness have not been established (see ). ADVERSE REACTIONS
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Metoclopramide should not be used whenever stimulation of gastrointestinal motility might be dangerous, e.g., in the presence of gastrointestinal hemorrhage, mechanical obstruction, or perforation. Metoclopramide is contraindicated in patients with pheochromocytoma because the drug may cause a hypertensive crisis, probably due to release of catecholamines from the tumor. Such hypertensive crises may be controlled by phentolamine. Metoclopramide is contraindicated in patients with known sensitivity or intolerance to the drug. Metoclopramide should not be used in epileptics or patients receiving other drugs which are likely to cause extrapyramidal reactions, since the frequency and severity of seizures or extrapyramidal reactions may be increased. CONTRAINDICATIONS Metoclopramide should not be used whenever stimulation of gastrointestinal motility might be dangerous, e.g., in the presence of gastrointestinal hemorrhage, mechanical obstruction or perforation. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Metoclopramide is contraindicated: In patients with a history of tardive dyskinesia (TD) or a dystonic reaction to metoclopramide [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 ) ]. When stimulation of gastrointestinal motility might be dangerous (e.g., in the presence of gastrointestinal hemorrhage, mechanical obstruction, or perforation). In patients with pheochromocytoma or other catecholamine-releasing paragangliomas. Metoclopramide may cause a hypertensive/pheochromocytoma crisis, probably due to release of catecholamines from the tumor [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ]. In patients with epilepsy. Metoclopramide may increase the frequency and severity of seizures [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ]. In patients with hypersensitivity to metoclopramide. Reactions have included laryngeal and glossal angioedema and bronchospasm [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ]. History of TD or dystonic reaction to metoclopramide ( 4 ) When stimulation of gastrointestinal motility might be dangerous ( 4 ) Pheochromocytoma, catecholamine-releasing paragangliomas ( 4 ) Epilepsy ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to metoclopramide ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Metoclopramide is contraindicated: In patients with a history of tardive dyskinesia (TD) or a dystonic reaction to metoclopramide [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.2) ] . Metoclopramide may cause a hypertensive/pheochromocytoma crisis, probably due to release of catecholamines from the tumor . Metoclopramide may cause a hypertensive/pheochromocytoma crisis, probably due to release of catecholamines from the tumor [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Metoclopramide may increase the frequency and severity of seizures [see Adverse Reactions (6) ] . Reactions have included laryngeal and glossal angioedema and bronchospasm [see Adverse Reactions (6) ] .
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions The effects of metoclopramide on gastrointestinal motility are antagonized by anticholinergic drugs and narcotic analgesics. Additive sedative effects can occur when metoclopramide is given with alcohol, sedatives, hypnotics, narcotics, or tranquilizers. The finding that metoclopramide releases catecholamines in patients with essential hypertension suggests that it should be used cautiously, if at all, in patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors. Absorption of drugs from the stomach may be diminished (e.g. digoxin) by metoclopramide, whereas the rate and/or extent of absorption of drugs from the small bowel may be increased (e.g., acetaminophen, tetracycline, levodopa, ethanol, cyclosporine). Gastroparesis (gastric stasis) may be responsible for poor diabetic control in some patients. Exogenously administered insulin may begin to act before food has left the stomach and lead to hypoglycemia. Because the action of metoclopramide will influence the delivery of food to the intestines and thus the rate of absorption, insulin dosage or timing of dosage may require adjustment. Additive sedative effects can occur when metoclopramide is given with alcohol, sedatives, hypnotics, narcotics or tranquilizers. Absorption of drugs from the stomach may be diminished (e.g., digoxin) by metoclopramide, whereas the rate and/or extent of absorption of drugs from the small bowel may be increased (e.g., acetaminophen, tetracycline, levodopa, ethanol, cyclosporine). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antipsychotics : Potential for additive effects, including TD, EPS, and NMS; avoid concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) CNS depressants : Increased risk of CNS depression. Avoid concomitant use and monitor for adverse reactions. ( 7.1 ) Strong CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., quinidine, bupropion, fluoxetine, and paroxetine) : See Full Prescribing Information for recommended dosage reductions. ( 2.2 , 2.3 , 7.1 ) MAO inhibitors : Increased risk of hypertension; avoid concomitant use. ( 5.5 , 7.1 ) Additional drug interactions : See Full Prescribing Information. ( 7.1 , 7.2 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Metoclopramide Table 3 displays the effects of other drugs on metoclopramide. Table 3. Effects of Other Drugs on Metoclopramide Antipsychotics Clinical Impact Potential for additive effects, including increased frequency and severity of tardive dyskinesia (TD), other extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS), and neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS). Intervention Avoid concomitant use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 ) ]. Strong CYP2D6 Inhibitors, not Included in Antipsychotic Category Above Clinical Impact Increased plasma concentrations of metoclopramide; risk of exacerbation of extrapyramidal symptoms [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Intervention Reduce the metoclopramide dosage [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) ]. Examples quinidine, bupropion, fluoxetine, and paroxetine Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Clinical Impact Increased risk of hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ]. Intervention Avoid concomitant use. Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact Increased risk of CNS depression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 ) ]. Intervention Avoid metoclopramide or the interacting drug, depending on the importance of the drug to the patient. Examples alcohol, sedatives, hypnotics, opiates and anxiolytics Drugs that Impair Gastrointestinal Motility Clinical Impact Decreased systemic absorption of metoclopramide. Intervention Monitor for reduced therapeutic effect. Examples antiperistaltic antidiarrheal drugs, anticholinergic drugs, and opiates Dopaminergic Agonists and Other Drugs that Increase Dopamine Concentrations Clinical Impact Decreased therapeutic effect of metoclopramide due to opposing effects on dopamine. Examples apomorphine, bromocriptine, cabergoline, levodopa, pramipexole, ropinirole, and rotigotine 7.2 Effects of Metoclopramide on Other Drugs Table 4 displays the effects of metoclopramide on other drugs. Table 4. Effects of Metoclopramide on Other Drugs Dopaminergic Agonists and Drugs Increasing Dopamine Concentrations Clinical Impact Opposing effects of metoclopramide and the interacting drug on dopamine. Potential exacerbation of symptoms (e.g., parkinsonian symptoms). Intervention Avoid concomitant use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. Examples Apomorphine, bromocriptine, cabergoline, levodopa, pramipexole, ropinirole, rotigotine Succinylcholine, Mivacurium Clinical Impact Metoclopramide inhibits plasma cholinesterase leading to enhanced neuromuscular blockade. Intervention Monitor for signs and symptoms of prolonged neuromuscular blockade Drugs with Absorption Altered due to Increased Gastrointestinal Motility Clinical Impact The effect of metoclopramide on other drugs is variable. Increased gastrointestinal (GI) motility by metoclopramide may impact absorption of other drugs leading to decreased or increased drug exposure. Intervention Drugs with Decreased Absorption (e.g., digoxin, atovaquone, posaconazole oral suspension Interaction does not apply to posaconazole delayed-release tablets , fosfomycin) : Monitor for reduced therapeutic effect of the interacting drug. For digoxin monitor therapeutic drug concentrations and increase the digoxin dose as needed (see prescribing information for digoxin). Drugs with Increased Absorption (e.g., sirolimus, tacrolimus, cyclosporine) : Monitor therapeutic drug concentrations and adjust the dose as needed. See prescribing information for the interacting drug. Insulin Clinical Impact Increased GI motility by metoclopramide may increase delivery of food to the intestines and increase blood glucose. Intervention Monitor blood glucose and adjust insulin dosage regimen as needed. Intervention Avoid concomitant use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3) ]. Strong CYP2D6 Inhibitors, not Included in Antipsychotic Category Above Clinical Impact Increased plasma concentrations of metoclopramide; risk of exacerbation of extrapyramidal symptoms [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention Reduce the metoclopramide dosage [see Dosage and Administration (2.2 , 2.3) ]. Examples quinidine, bupropion, fluoxetine, and paroxetine Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Clinical Impact Increased risk of hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact Increased risk of CNS depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Intervention Avoid concomitant use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] .

=== MOMETASONE FUROATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Allergy symptom reliever
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mometasone furoate cream, 0.1% is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses in patients 2 years of age or older. Mometasone furoate cream, 0.1% is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses in patients ≥ 2 years of age. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ASMANEX HFA is a corticosteroid indicated for: Maintenance treatment of asthma as prophylactic therapy in patients 5 years of age and older. ( 1.1 ) Important limitations: Not indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm. ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Treatment of Asthma ASMANEX ® HFA is indicated for the maintenance treatment of asthma as prophylactic therapy in patients 5 years of age and older. Important Limitations of Use ASMANEX HFA is NOT indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ASMANEX ® TWISTHALER ® is indicated for the maintenance treatment of asthma as prophylactic therapy in adult and pediatric patients 4 years of age and older. Limitations of Use ASMANEX TWISTHALER is not indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm. ASMANEX TWISTHALER is not indicated in children less than 4 years of age. ASMANEX TWISTHALER is a corticosteroid indicated for maintenance treatment of asthma as prophylactic therapy in patients 4 years of age and older. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use: ASMANEX TWISTHALER is not indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm ( 1 , 5.2 ) or in children less than 4 years of age ( 1 , 8.4 ). Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms of hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: • nasal congestion • runny nose • sneezing • itchy nose 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mometasone furoate cream, USP, 0.1% is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses in patients 2 years of age or older. Mometasone furoate cream, USP, 0.1% is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses in patients ≥ 2 years of age. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mometasone Furoate Ointment is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses in patients ≥ 2 years of age ( 1 ) Mometasone Furoate Ointment is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses in patients 2 years of age or older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mometasone furoate topical solution USP, 0.1% (lotion) is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses in patients 12 years of age or older. Mometasone furoate topical solution USP, 0.1% (lotion) is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses in patients ≥ 12 years of age. (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mometasone furoate ointment, 0.1% is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses in patients 2 years of age or older. Mometasone furoate ointment is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses in patients ≥2 years of age. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mometasone Furoate Cream USP, 0.1% is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses in patients 2 years of age or older. Mometasone Furoate Cream USP, 0.1% is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses in patients ≥2 years of age.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of mometasone furoate cream, 0.1% to the affected skin areas once daily. Mometasone furoate cream, 0.1% may be used in pediatric patients 2 years of age or older. Since safety and efficacy of mometasone furoate cream, 0.1% have not been established in pediatric patients below 2 years of age; use in this age group is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )]. Therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved. If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks, reassessment of diagnosis may be necessary [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Do not use mometasone furoate cream, 0.1% with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician. Do not apply mometasone furoate cream, 0.1% in the diaper area if the patient still requires diapers or plastic pants, as these garments may constitute occlusive dressing. Avoid contact with eyes. Wash hands after each application. Avoid use on the face, groin, or axillae. Mometasone furoate cream, 0.1% is for topical use only. It is not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. • Apply a thin film to the affected skin areas once daily. ( 2 ) • Discontinue therapy when control is achieved. ( 2 ) • If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks, reassess diagnosis. ( 2 ) • Do not use with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician. ( 2 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For oral inhalation only. ( 2.1 ) Treatment of asthma in patients 12 years of age and older: 2 inhalations twice daily of ASMANEX HFA 100 mcg or 200 mcg. Starting dosage is based on prior asthma therapy. ( 2.2 ) Treatment of asthma in patients aged 5 to less than 12 years: 2 inhalations twice daily of ASMANEX HFA 50 mcg. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Administration Information Administer ASMANEX HFA only by the orally inhaled route [see Instructions for Use in the Patient Information leaflet ] . After each dose, advise patients to rinse their mouth with water and, without swallowing, spit out the contents to help reduce the risk of oropharyngeal candidiasis. Remove the cap from the mouthpiece of the actuator before using ASMANEX HFA. Prime ASMANEX HFA before using for the first time by releasing 4 test sprays into the air, away from the face, shaking well before each spray. In cases where the inhaler has not been used for more than 5 days, prime the inhaler again by releasing 4 test sprays into the air, away from the face, shaking well before each spray. Only use the ASMANEX HFA canister with the ASMANEX HFA actuator. Do not use the ASMANEX HFA actuator with any other inhalation drug product. Do not use actuators from other products with the ASMANEX HFA canister. 2.2 Recommended Dosage Administer ASMANEX HFA as two inhalations twice daily every day (morning and evening) by the orally inhaled route. Shake well prior to each inhalation. If symptoms arise between doses, use an inhaled short-acting beta 2 -agonist for immediate relief. The maximum benefit may not be achieved for 1 week or longer after beginning treatment. Individual patients may experience a variable time to onset and degree of symptom relief. Adult and Adolescent Patients Aged 12 Years and Older For patients 12 years of age and older, the dosage is either 2 inhalations twice daily of ASMANEX HFA 100 mcg or 200 mcg. The starting dosage is based on previous asthma therapy and disease severity, including considerations of the patients' current control of asthma symptoms and risk of future exacerbations. The recommended starting dosage for patients 12 years of age and older who are not on an inhaled corticosteroid is ASMANEX HFA 100 mcg, 2 inhalations twice daily. It is recommended that patients currently receiving chronic oral corticosteroid therapy (e.g., prednisone) begin with ASMANEX HFA 200 mcg (2 inhalations twice daily). For patients who do not respond adequately to the initial dosage after 2 weeks of therapy, increasing the dosage may provide additional asthma control. The maximum daily recommended dose is two inhalations of ASMANEX HFA 200 mcg twice daily (maximum of 800 mcg a day). After asthma stability has been achieved, it may be desirable to titrate to the lowest effective dosage to reduce the possibility of side effects. If a dosage regimen of ASMANEX HFA fails to provide adequate control of asthma, re-evaluate the therapeutic regimen and consider additional therapeutic options, e.g., replacing the current strength of ASMANEX HFA with a higher strength, initiating an inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting beta 2 -agonist combination product, or initiating oral corticosteroids. Pediatric Patients Aged 5 to Less Than 12 Years For patients aged 5 to less than 12 years, the dosage is 2 inhalations of ASMANEX HFA 50 mcg twice daily. The maximum daily dosage is 200 mcg. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administration Information Administer ASMANEX TWISTHALER by the orally inhaled route only. Instruct patients to inhale rapidly and deeply. After administration, advise patients to rinse the mouth with water and spit out contents without swallowing. Individual patients will experience a variable time to onset and degree of symptom relief. Maximum benefit may not be achieved for 1 to 2 weeks or longer after initiation of treatment. After asthma stability has been achieved, it is desirable to titrate to the lowest effective dosage to reduce the possibility of side effects. For patients ≥12 years of age who do not respond adequately to the starting dose after 2 weeks of therapy, higher doses may provide additional asthma control. The safety and efficacy of ASMANEX TWISTHALER when administered in excess of recommended doses have not been established. For oral inhalation only. ( 2 ) Instruct patients to inhale rapidly and deeply and, after administration, rinse mouth with water and spit out contents without swallowing. ( 2 ) Recommended Dosages for ASMANEX TWISTHALER Treatment Previous Therapy Recommended Starting Dose Highest Recommended Daily Dose , , , Please refer to section 2.1 for full dosage recommendations and details. Patients ≥12 years who received bronchodilators alone 220 mcg once daily in the evening 440 mcg Patients ≥12 years who received inhaled corticosteroids 220 mcg once daily in the evening 440 mcg Patients ≥12 years who received oral corticosteroids 440 mcg twice daily 880 mcg Children 4-11 years of age 110 mcg once daily in the evening 110 mcg 2.1 Recommended Dosages in Adult and Pediatric Patients 4 Years of Age and Older The recommended starting doses and highest recommended daily dose for ASMANEX TWISTHALER treatment based on prior asthma therapy are provided in Table 1 . Table 1: Recommended Dosages for ASMANEX TWISTHALER Treatment Previous Therapy Recommended Starting Dose Highest Recommended Daily Dose Patients ≥12 years who received bronchodilators alone 220 mcg once daily in the evening When administered once daily, ASMANEX TWISTHALER should be taken only in the evening. 440 mcg The 440 mcg daily dose may be administered in divided doses of 220 mcg twice daily or as 440 mcg once daily. Patients ≥12 years who received inhaled corticosteroids 220 mcg once daily in the evening 440 mcg Patients ≥12 years who received oral corticosteroids For Patients Currently Receiving Chronic Oral Corticosteroid Therapy: Prednisone should be reduced no faster than 2.5 mg/day on a weekly basis, beginning after at least 1 week of ASMANEX TWISTHALER therapy. Monitor patients carefully for signs of asthma instability, including serial objective measures of airflow, and for signs of adrenal insufficiency during steroid taper and following discontinuation of oral corticosteroid therapy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . 440 mcg twice daily 880 mcg Children 4-11 years of age Recommended pediatric dosage is 110 mcg once daily in the evening regardless of prior therapy. 110 mcg once daily in the evening 110 mcg Directions Read insert (inside package) for how to: • prime the bottle • use the spray • clean the nozzle • shake well before each use • use this product only once a day • do not use more than directed Adults & children 12 years of age and older • 2 sprays in each nostril once daily while sniffing gently Children 2 to 11 years of age • the growth rate of some children may be slower while using this product. Children should use for the shortest amount of time necessary to achieve symptom relief. Talk to your child’s doctor if your child needs to use the spray for longer than two months a year . • an adult should supervise use • 1 spray in each nostril once daily while sniffing gently Children under 2 years of age • do not use 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of mometasone furoate cream, USP, 0.1% to the affected skin areas once daily. Mometasone furoate cream, USP, 0.1% may be used in pediatric patients 2 years of age or older. Since safety and efficacy of mometasone furoate cream, USP, 0.1% have not been established in pediatric patients below 2 years of age; use in this age group is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] . If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks, reassessment of diagnosis may be necessary. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Do not use mometasone furoate cream, USP, 0.1% with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician. Do not apply mometasone furoate cream, USP, 0.1% in the diaper area if the patient still requires diapers or plastic pants, as these garments may constitute occlusive dressing. Mometasone furoate cream, USP, 0.1% is for topical use only. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film to the affected skin areas once daily. (2) Discontinue therapy when control is achieved. (2) If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks, reassess diagnosis. (2) Do not use with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician. (2) Apply a thin film of Mometasone Furoate Ointment to the affected skin areas once daily. If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks, reassessment of diagnosis may be necessary [ see Warnings and Precautions(5.1)]. Do not use Mometasone Furoate Ointment with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician. Do not apply Mometasone Furoate Ointment in the diaper area, as diapers or plastic pants constitute occlusive dressing. Mometasone Furoate Ointment is for topical use only. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a few drops of mometasone furoate lotion to the affected skin areas once daily and massage lightly until it disappears. If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks, reassessment of diagnosis may be necessary [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ) ]. Do not use mometasone furoate lotion with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician. Do not apply mometasone furoate lotion in the diaper area if the patient requires diapers or plastic pants, as these garments may constitute occlusive dressing. Mometasone furoate lotion is for topical use only. • Apply a few drops to the affected skin areas once daily and massage lightly until it disappears. (2) • Discontinue therapy when control is achieved. (2) • If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks, reassess diagnosis. (2) • Do not use with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician. (2 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of mometasone furoate ointment to the affected skin areas once daily. If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks, reassessment of diagnosis may be necessary [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . Talk to your child’s doctor if your child needs to use the spray for longer than two months a year. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of Mometasone Furoate Cream USP, 0.1% to the affected skin areas once daily. Mometasone furoate cream may be used in pediatric patients 2 years of age or older. Since safety and efficacy of mometasone furoate cream have not been established in pediatric patients below 2 years of age; use in this age group is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . Safety and efficacy of mometasone furoate cream in pediatric patients for more than 3 weeks of use have not been established. Mometasone furoate cream should not be used with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician. Mometasone furoate cream should not be applied in the diaper area if the child still requires diapers or plastic pants, as these garments may constitute occlusive dressing. Mometasone furoate cream is for topical use only. ( 2 ) • The safety and efficacy of Mometasone Furoate Cream USP, 0.1% in pediatric patients for more than 3 weeks of use have not been established.
Warnings: Warnings Only for use in the nose. Do not spray into your eyes or mouth. Do not use • in children under 2 years of age • to treat asthma • if you have an injury or surgery to your nose that is not fully healed • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of the ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you • have an eye infection • have or had glaucoma or cataracts Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking • medicine for HIV infection (such as ritonavir) • a steroid medicine for asthma, allergies or skin rash • ketoconazole pills (medicine for fungal infection) When using this product • the growth rate of some children may be slower • stinging may occur for a few seconds right after use • you may start to feel relief within 12 hours and full effect after several days of regular, once-a-day use • do not share this bottle with anyone else as this may spread germs • remember to tell your doctor about all the medicines you take, including this one Stop use and ask a doctor if • you have, or come into contact with someone who has chickenpox, measles or tuberculosis • your symptoms do not get better within 7 days of starting use or you get new symptoms such as severe facial pain or thick nasal discharge. You may have something more than allergies, such as an infection. • you get a constant whistling sound from your nose. This may be a sign of damage inside your nose. • you get an allergic reaction to this product. Seek medical help right away. • you get new changes to your vision that develop after starting this product • you have severe or frequent nosebleeds If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Do not use • in children under 2 years of age • to treat asthma • if you have an injury or surgery to your nose that is not fully healed • if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of the ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you • have an eye infection • have or had glaucoma or cataracts Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking • medicine for HIV infection (such as ritonavir) • a steroid medicine for asthma, allergies or skin rash • ketoconazole pills (medicine for fungal infection) When using this product • the growth rate of some children may be slower • stinging may occur for a few seconds right after use • you may start to feel relief within 12 hours and full effect after several days of regular, once-a-day use • do not share this bottle with anyone else as this may spread germs • remember to tell your doctor about all the medicines you take, including this one Stop use and ask a doctor if • you have, or come into contact with someone who has chickenpox, measles or tuberculosis • your symptoms do not get better within 7 days of starting use or you get a new symptom such as severe facial pain or thick nasal discharge. • you get new changes to your vision that develop after starting this product • you have severe or frequent nosebleeds If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mometasone furoate cream, 0.1% is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components in the preparation. Mometasone furoate cream, 0.1% is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components in the preparation. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Primary treatment of status asthmaticus or acute episodes of asthma requiring intensive measures. ( 4.1 ) Hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of ASMANEX HFA. ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Status Asthmaticus ASMANEX HFA is contraindicated in the primary treatment of status asthmaticus or other acute episodes of asthma where intensive measures are required. 4.2 Hypersensitivity ASMANEX HFA is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to mometasone furoate or any of the ingredients in ASMANEX HFA [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ASMANEX TWISTHALER is contraindicated: Status Asthmaticus: in the primary treatment of status asthmaticus or other acute episodes of asthma where intensive measures are required. Hypersensitivity: in patients with known hypersensitivity to milk proteins or any ingredients of ASMANEX TWISTHALER [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Description (11) ]. Patients with status asthmaticus or other acute episodes of asthma where intensive measures are required. ( 4 ) Patients with a known hypersensitivity to milk proteins or any ingredients of ASMANEX TWISTHALER. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mometasone furoate cream, USP, 0.1% is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components in the preparation. Mometasone furoate cream, USP, 0.1% is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components in the preparation. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mometasone Furoate Ointment is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components in the preparation. ( 4 ) Mometasone Furoate Ointment is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components in the preparation. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mometasone furoate lotion is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components in the preparation. • Mometasone furoate topical solution USP, 0.1% (lotion) is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components in the preparation. (4) • Mometasone furoate ointment is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components in the preparation. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None. • None.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted with mometasone furoate cream. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS In clinical trials, concurrent administration of ASMANEX HFA and other drugs, such as short-acting beta 2 -agonist and intranasal corticosteroids have not resulted in an increased frequency of adverse drug reactions. No formal drug interaction studies have been performed with ASMANEX HFA. Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir): Use with caution. May cause increased systemic corticosteroid effects. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 The main route of metabolism of corticosteroids, including mometasone furoate, is via CYP3A4. After oral administration of ketoconazole, a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, the mean plasma concentration of orally inhaled mometasone furoate increased. Concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may inhibit the metabolism of, and increase the systemic exposure to, mometasone furoate and potentially increase the risk for systemic corticosteroid side effects. Caution should be exercised when considering the coadministration of ASMANEX HFA with long-term ketoconazole and other known strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, cobicistat-containing products, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, telithromycin) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Consider the benefit of coadministration versus the potential risk of systemic corticosteroid effects, in which case patients should be monitored for systemic corticosteroid side effects. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS In clinical studies, the concurrent administration of ASMANEX TWISTHALER and other drugs commonly used in the treatment of asthma was not associated with any unusual adverse reactions. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Concomitant administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors may inhibit the metabolism of, and increase the systemic exposure to, mometasone furoate and potentially increase the risk for systemic corticosteroid side effects [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Caution should be exercised when considering the coadministration of ASMANEX TWISTHALER with long-term ketoconazole and other known strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, cobicistat-containing products, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, telithromycin). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted with mometasone furoate cream, USP, 0.1%. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted with Mometasone Furoate Ointment. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted with mometasone furoate lotion.

=== NORGESTIMATE AND ETHINYL ESTRADIOL ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sprintec ® is a combination of norgestimate, a progestin, and ethinyl estradiol, an estrogen, indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Oral Contraceptive Sprintec ® (norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets) is indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP are estrogen/progestin COCs, indicated for use by women to prevent pregnancy. ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Oral Contraceptive Norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP are indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14 )]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE VyLibra is a combination of norgestimate, a progestin, and ethinyl estradiol, an estrogen, indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Oral Contraceptive VyLibra tablets are indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tri-Estarylla (norgestimate and ethinyl estrdiol tablets) is a combinations of norgestimate, a progestin, and ethinyl estradiol, and estrogen, indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. ( 1.1 ) Tri-Estarylla is indicated for the treatment of moderate acne vulgaris in females at least 15 years of age, who have no known contraindications to oral contraceptive therapy and have achieved menarche. Tri-Estarylla should be used for the treatment of acne only if the patient desires an oral contraceptive for birth control. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Oral Contraceptive Tri-Estarylla (norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol) Tablets are indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14 )] . 1.2 Acne Tri-Estarylla is indicated for the treatment of moderate acne vulgaris in females at least 15 years of age, who have no known contraindications to oral contraceptive therapy and have achieved menarche. Tri-Estarylla should be used for the treatment of acne only if the patient desires an oral contraceptive for birth control [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14 )]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tri-Sprintec ® (norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets) is a combination of norgestimate, a progestin, and ethinyl estradiol, an estrogen, indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. () Tri-Sprintec ® (norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets) is indicated for the treatment of moderate acne vulgaris in females at least 15 years of age, who have no known contraindications to oral contraceptive therapy and have achieved menarche. Tri-Sprintec ® (norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets) should be used for the treatment of acne only if the patient desires an oral contraceptive for birth control. () 1.1 Oral Contraceptive Tri-Sprintec ® (norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets) is indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy [see Clinical Studies ( )] . 1.2 Acne Tri-Sprintec ® (norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets) is indicated for the treatment of moderate acne vulgaris in females at least 15 years of age, who have no known contraindications to oral contraceptive therapy and have achieved menarche. Tri-Sprintec ® (norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets) should be used for the treatment of acne only if the patient desires an oral contraceptive for birth control [see Clinical Studies ( )] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tri-Mili is combination of norgestimate, a progestin, and ethinyl estradiol, an estrogen, indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. ( 1.1 ) Tri-Mili is indicated for the treatment of moderate acne vulgaris in females at least 15 years of age, who have no known contraindications to oral contraceptive therapy and have achieved menarche. Tri-Mili should be used for the treatment of acne only if the patient desires an oral contraceptive for birth control. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Oral Contraceptive Tri-Mili tablets are indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . 1.2 Acne Tri-Mili is indicated for the treatment of moderate acne vulgaris in females at least 15 years of age, who have no known contraindications to oral contraceptive therapy and have achieved menarche. Tri-Mili should be used for the treatment of acne only if the patient desires an oral contraceptive for birth control [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tri-Lo-Marzia is an estrogen/progestin COC, indicated for use by women to prevent pregnancy. ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Oral Contraception Tri-Lo-Marzia™ Tablets are indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14 )]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mono-Linyah is an estrogen/progestin COC, indicated for use by women to prevent pregnancy. ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Oral Contraceptive Mono-Linyah tablets are indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets are combinations of norgestimate, a progestin, and ethinyl estradiol, an estrogen, indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. ( 1.1 ) Norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg are indicated for the treatment of moderate acne vulgaris in females at least 15 years of age, who have no known contraindications to oral contraceptive therapy and have achieved menarche. Norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg should be used for the treatment of acne only if the patient desires an oral contraceptive for birth control. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Oral Contraceptive Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg and Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg are indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. 1.2 Acne Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg are indicated for the treatment of moderate acne vulgaris in females at least 15 years of age, who have no known contraindications to oral contraceptive therapy and have achieved menarche. Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg should be used for the treatment of acne only if the patient desires an oral contraceptive for birth control [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tri Femynor is estrogen/progestin COCs, indicated for use by women to prevent pregnancy. (1.1) Tri Femynor is also indicated for the treatment of moderate acne vulgaris in females at least 15 years of age, who have no known contraindications to oral contraceptive therapy and have achieved menarche. Tri Femynor should be used for the treatment of acne only if the patient desires an oral contraceptive birth control. (1.2) 1.1 Oral Contraceptive Tri Femynor Tablets are indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. 1.2 Acne Tri Femynor is indicated for the treatment of moderate acne vulgaris in females at least 15 years of age, who have no known contraindications to oral contraceptive therapy and have achieved menarche. Tri Femynor should be used for the treatment of acne only if the patient desires an oral contraceptive for birth control [ see Clinical Studies (14) ].
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day. ( 2.1 ) Take tablets in the order directed on the blister pack. ( 2.1 ) Do not skip or delay tablet intake. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage and Administration Take one tablet by mouth at the same time each day with or without food. Table 1 provides the recommended dosage and administration instructions for Sprintec. Table 1: Instructions for Administration of Sprintec Starting COCs in women not currently using hormonal contraception (Day 1 Start or Sunday Start) Important: Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of this product. Tablet Color: Sprintec active tablets are blue (Day 1 to Day 21). Sprintec has white inactive tablets (Day 22 to Day 28). Day 1 Start: Take first active tablet without regard to meals on the first day of menses. Take subsequent active tablets once daily at the same time each day for a total of 21 days. Take one white inactive tablet daily for 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken. Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack (i.e., on the day after taking the last inactive tablet) Sunday Start: Take first active tablet without regard to meals on the first Sunday after the onset of menses. Due to the potential risk of becoming pregnant, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient’s first cycle pack of Sprintec. Take one white inactive tablet daily for the following 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken. Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack (i.e., on the Sunday after taking the last inactive tablet) and additional non-hormonal contraceptive is not needed. Switching to Sprintec from another oral contraceptive Start on the same day that a new pack of the previous oral contraceptive would have started. Switching from another contraceptive method to Sprintec Start Sprintec: Transdermal patch On the day when next application would have been scheduled Vaginal ring On the day when next insertion would have been scheduled Injection On the day when next injection would have been scheduled Intrauterine contraceptive On the day of removal If the IUD is not removed on first day of the patient’s menstrual cycle, additional non-hormonal contraceptive (such as condoms and spermicide) is needed for the first seven days of the first cycle pack. Implant On the day of removal Complete instructions to facilitate patient counseling on proper tablet usage are located in the FDA-Approved Patient Labeling. Starting Sprintec after Abortion or Miscarriage First-trimester After a first-trimester abortion or miscarriage, Sprintec may be started immediately. An additional method of contraception is not needed if Sprintec is started immediately. If Sprintec is not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy, the patient should use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of her first cycle pack of Sprintec. Second-trimester Do not start until 4 weeks after a second-trimester abortion or miscarriage, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start Sprintec, following the instructions in Table 1 for Day 1 or Sunday start, as desired. If using Sunday start, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient’s first cycle pack of Sprintec [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Starting Sprintec after Childbirth Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start contraceptive therapy with Sprintec following the instructions in Table 1 for women not currently using hormonal contraception. Sprintec is not recommended for use in lactating women [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.2 )]. If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum, consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of Sprintec [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 , and 8.2 )]. 2.2 Recommendations Regarding Missed Doses Contraceptive failure may occur when active tablets are missed. Table 2 describes instructions for Sprintec dosing and use of additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms) when active tablets are missed. Table 2: Instructions for Missed Sprintec Tablets If one active tablet is missed in Weeks 1, 2, or 3 Take the tablet as soon as possible. Continue taking one tablet a day until the pack is finished. If two active tablets are missed in Week 1 or Week 2 Take the two missed tablets as soon as possible and the next two active tablets the next day. Additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) should be used as back-up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing tablets. If two active tablets are missed in the third week or three or more active tablets are missed in a row in Weeks 1, 2, or 3 Day 1 start : Throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day. Sunday start : Continue taking one tablet a day until Sunday, then throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day. 2.3 Dosage Recommendations if Vomiting or Diarrhea Occurs In case of severe vomiting or diarrhea, absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken. If vomiting or diarrhea occurs within 3 to 4 hours after taking an active tablet, handle this as a missed tablet. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day. ( 2.2 ) • Take tablets in the order directed on the blister. ( 2.2 ) • Do not skip or delay tablet intake. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 How to Start Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets USP Norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP are dispensed in a blister [see HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING ( 16 )]. Norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP may be started using either a Day 1 start or a Sunday start (see Table 1). For the first cycle of a Sunday Start regimen, an additional method of contraception should be used until after the first 7 consecutive days of administration. 2.2 How to Take Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets USP Table 1: Instructions for Administration of Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets USP Starting COCs in women not currently using hormonal contraception ( Day 1 Start or Sunday Start ) Important : Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of this product. Tablet Color : • Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets USP (0.25mg/0.035mg) active tablets are dark blue (Day 1 to Day 21). • Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets USP both have white inactive tablets (Day 22 to Day 28). Day 1 Start : • Take first active tablet without regard to meals on the first day of menses. • Take subsequent active tablets once daily at the same time each day for a total of 21 days. • Take one white inactive tablet daily for 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken. • Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack (i.e., on the day after taking the last inactive tablet) Sunday Start : • Take first active tablet without regard to meals on the first Sunday after the onset of menses. Due to the potential risk of becoming pregnant , use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) for the first seven days of the patient’s first cycle pack of norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP . • Take one white inactive tablet daily for the following 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken. • Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack (i.e., on the Sunday after taking the last inactive tablet) and additional non-hormonal contraceptive is not needed. Switching to norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP from another oral contraceptive Start on the same day that a new pack of the previous oral contraceptive would have started. Switching from another contraceptive method to norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP Start norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP : • Transdermal patch • On the day when next application would have been scheduled • Vaginal ring • On the day when next insertion would have been scheduled • Injection • On the day when next injection would have been scheduled • Intrauterine contraceptive • On the day of removal If the IUD is not removed on first day of the patient’s menstrual cycle, additional non-hormonal contraceptive (such as condoms and spermicide) is needed for the first seven days of the first cycle pack. • Implant • On the day of removal Complete instructions to facilitate patient counseling on proper tablet usage are located in the FDA - Approved Patient Labeling . Starting Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets USP after Abortion or Miscarriage First-trimester: • After a first-trimester abortion or miscarriage, norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP may be started immediately. An additional method of contraception is not needed if norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP is started immediately. • If norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP is not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy, the patient should use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of her first cycle pack of norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP. Second-trimester: • Do not start until 4 weeks after a second-trimester abortion or miscarriage, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP, following the instructions in Table 1 for Day 1 or Sunday start, as desired. If using Sunday start, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient's first cycle pack of norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP. [see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ), WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 ), AND FDA-APPROVED PATIENT LABELING.] Starting Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets USP after Childbirth • Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start contraceptive therapy with norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP following the instructions in Table 1 for women not currently using hormonal contraception. • Norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP are not recommended for use in lactating women [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.3 )]. • If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum, consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets USP [see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ), WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 ), USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.1 AND 8.3 ), AND FDA-APPROVED PATIENT LABELING]. Blister Pack: SET THE DAY □ Day 1 Start: Six different day label strips of the week have been provided with this pack in order to accommodate a Day-1 Start regimen. Pick the day label strip that starts with the first day of your period. Place this day label strip over the area that has the days of the week (starting with Sunday) pre-printed on the blister □ Sunday Start: Each blister has been preprinted with the days of the week, starting with Sunday, to facilitate a Sunday-Start regimen. (Refer figure below). Remove pill "1" by pushing down on the pill. The pill will come out through a hole in the back of the strip. The patient should wait 24 hours to take the next pill. Continue to take one pill each day until all the pills have been taken. When your blister is empty, you will start a new blister on the day after pill "28." The first pill in every refill will always be taken on the same day of the week, no matter when the patient's next period starts. 2.3 Missed Tablets table 2.4 Advice in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances In case of severe vomiting or diarrhea, absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken. If vomiting or diarrhea occurs within 3 to 4 hours after taking an active tablet, handle this as a missed tablet [see FDA-APPROVED PATIENT LABELING]. Table 1 provides the recommended dosage and administration instructions for VyLibra. Table 1: Instructions for Administration of VyLibra Starting COCs in women not currently using hormonal contraception (Day 1 Start or Sunday Start) Important: Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of this product. Tablet Color: VyLibra active tablets are dark blue (Day 1 to Day 21). VyLibra has green inactive tablets (Day 22 to Day 28). Take one green inactive tablet daily for 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken. Due to the potential risk of becoming pregnant, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient’s first cycle pack of VyLibra. Take one green inactive tablet daily for the following 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken. Switching to VyLibra from another oral contraceptive Start on the same day that a new pack of the previous oral contraceptive would have started. Switching from another contraceptive method to VyLibra Start VyLibra: • Transdermal patch On the day when next application would have been scheduled • Vaginal ring On the day when next insertion would have been scheduled • Injection On the day when next injection would have been scheduled • Intrauterine contraceptive On the day of removal If the IUD is not removed on first day of the patient’s menstrual cycle, additional non-hormonal contraceptive (such as condoms and spermicide) is needed for the first seven days of the first cycle pack. • Implant On the day of removal Complete instructions to facilitate patient counseling on proper tablet usage are located in the FDA-Approved Patient Labeling. Starting VyLibra after Abortion or Miscarriage First-trimester After a first-trimester abortion or miscarriage, VyLibra may be started immediately. An additional method of contraception is not needed if VyLibra is started immediately. If VyLibra is not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy, the patient should use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of her first cycle pack of VyLibra. Start VyLibra, following the instructions in Table 1 for Day 1 or Sunday start, as desired. If using Sunday start, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient’s first cycle pack of VyLibra. [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Starting VyLibra after Childbirth Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start contraceptive therapy with VyLibra following the instructions in Table 1 for women not currently using hormonal contraception. VyLibra is not recommended for use in lactating women [see Use in Specific Populations (8.2) ] . If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum, consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of VyLibra. [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , and Use in Specific Populations (8.1 , and 8.2) ] . Table 2 describes instructions for VyLibra dosing and use of additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms) when active tablets are missed. Table 2: Instructions for Missed VyLibra Tablets If one active tablet is missed in Weeks 1, 2, or 3 Take the tablet as soon as possible. If two active tablets are missed in the third week or three or more active tablets are missed in a row in Weeks 1, 2, or 3 Day 1 start: Throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day. Sunday start: Continue taking one tablet a day until Sunday, then throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day. Table 1 provides the recommended dosage and administration instructions for Tri-Estarylla. Table 1: Instructions for Administration of Tri-Estarylla Starting COCs in women not currently using hormonal contraception (Day 1 Start or Sunday Start) Important : Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of this product. Tablet Color: Tri-Estarylla active tablets are white (Day 1 to Day 7), light blue (Day 8 to Day 14) and blue (Day 15 to Day 21). Tri-Estarylla have green inactive tablets (Day 22 to Day 28). Begin each subsequent blister pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle blister pack (i.e., on the day after taking the last inactive tablet) Sunday Start: Take first active tablet without regard to meals on the first Sunday after the onset of menses. Due to the potential risk of becoming pregnant, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient's first cycle pack of Tri- Estarylla . Switching to Tri- Estarylla from another oral contraceptive Start on the same day that a new pack of the previous oral contraceptive would have started. Switching from another contraceptive method to Tri- Estarylla Start Tri- Estarylla Transdermal patch On the day when next application would have been scheduled Vaginal ring On the day when next insertion would have been scheduled Injection On the day when next injection would have been scheduled Intrauterine contraceptive On the day of removal If the IUD is not removed on first day of the patient's menstrual cycle, additional non-hormonal contraceptive (such as condoms and spermicide) is needed for the first seven days of the first cycle pack. Starting Tri-Estarylla after Abortion or Miscarriage First-trimester After a first-trimester abortion or miscarriage, Tri-Estarylla may be started immediately. An additional method of contraception is not needed if Tri-Estarylla is started immediately. If Tri-Estarylla is not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy, the patient should use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of her first cycle blister pack of Tri-Estarylla. Start Tri-Estarylla, following the instructions in Table 1 for Day 1 or Sunday start, as desired. If using Sunday start, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient's first cycle pack of Tri-Estarylla. [see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ) , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 ), and FDA-APPROVED PATIENT LABELING]. Starting Tri-Estarylla after Childbirth Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start contraceptive therapy with Tri-Estarylla following the instructions in Table 1 for women not currently using hormonal contraception. Tri-Estarylla are not recommended for use in lactating women [SEE USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.2 )]. If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum, consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of Tri-Estarylla. [see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ), WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 ), AND USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.1 ) AND ( 8.2 )] . Table 2 describes instructions for Tri-Estarylla dosing and use of additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms) when active tablets are missed. Table 2: Instructions for Missed Tri-Estarylla Tablets If one active tablet is missed in Weeks 1, 2, or 3 Take the tablet as soon as possible. If two active tablets are missed in the third week or three or more active tablets are missed in a row in Weeks 1, 2 or 3. Day 1 start: Throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day. 2.4 Tri-Estarylla Use for Acne The timing of initiation of dosing with Tri-Estarylla for acne should follow the guidelines for use of Tri-Estarylla as an oral contraceptive. Consult the DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section ( 2.1 ) for instructions. ( 2.1 ) • Take tablets in the order directed on the blister pack. ( 2.1 ) • Do not skip or delay tablet intake. Table 1 provides the recommended dosage and administration instructions for Tri-Sprintec ® (norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets). Table 1: Instructions for Administration of Tri-Sprintec® Starting COCs in women not currently using hormonal contraception (Day 1 Start or Sunday Start) Important: Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of this product. Tablet Color: • Tri-Sprintec ® active tablets are gray (Day 1 to Day 7), light blue (Day 8 to Day 14) and blue (Day 15 to Day 21). • Tri-Sprintec ® has white inactive tablets (Day 22 to Day 28). Day 1 Start: • Take first active tablet without regard to meals on the first day of menses. • Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack (i.e., on the day after taking the last inactive tablet) Sunday Start: • Take first active tablet without regard to meals on the first Sunday after the onset of menses. Due to the potential risk of becoming pregnant, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient’s first cycle pack of Tri-Sprintec ® . Switching to Tri-Sprintec ® from another oral contraceptive Start on the same day that a new pack of the previous oral contraceptive would have started. Switching from another contraceptive method to Tri-Sprintec ® Start Tri-Sprintec ® : • Transdermal patch • On the day when next application would have been scheduled • Vaginal ring • On the day when next insertion would have been scheduled • Injection • On the day when next injection would have been scheduled • Intrauterine contraceptive • On the day of removal • If the IUD is not removed on first day of the patient’s menstrual cycle, additional non-hormonal contraceptive (such as condoms and spermicide) is needed for the first seven days of the first cycle pack. • Implant • On the day of removal Complete instructions to facilitate patient counseling on proper tablet usage are located in the FDA-Approved Patient Labeling. Starting Tri-Sprintec ® after Abortion or Miscarriage First-trimester • After a first-trimester abortion or miscarriage, Tri-Sprintec ® may be started immediately. An additional method of contraception is not needed if Tri-Sprintec ® is started immediately. • If Tri-Sprintec ® is not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy, the patient should use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of her first cycle pack of Tri-Sprintec ® . Second-trimester • Do not start until 4 weeks after a second-trimester abortion or miscarriage, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start Tri-Sprintec ® , following the instructions in Table 1 for Day 1 or Sunday start, as desired. If using Sunday start, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient’s first cycle pack of Tri-Sprintec ® [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( )]. Starting Tri-Sprintec ® after Childbirth • Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start contraceptive therapy with Tri-Sprintec ® following the instructions in Table 1 for women not currently using hormonal contraception. • Tri-Sprintec ® is not recommended for use in lactating women [see Use in Specific Populations ( )] . • If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum, consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of Tri-Sprintec ® [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( ), and Use in Specific Populations (, and )]. Table 2 describes instructions for Tri-Sprintec ® dosing and use of additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms) when active tablets are missed. Table 2: Instructions for Missed Tri-Sprintec® Tablets • If one active tablet is missed in Weeks 1, 2, or 3 Take the tablet as soon as possible. • If two active tablets are missed in Week 1 or Week 2 Take the two missed tablets as soon as possible and the next two active tablets the next day. • If two active tablets are missed in the third week or three or more active tablets are missed in a row in Weeks 1, 2, or 3 Day 1 start: Throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day. 2.4 Tri-Sprintec ® Use for Acne The timing of initiation of dosing with Tri-Sprintec ® for acne should follow the guidelines for use of Tri-Sprintec ® as an oral contraceptive. Table 1 provides the recommended dosage and administration instructions for Tri-Mili. Table 1: Instructions for Administration of Tri-Mili Starting COCs in women not currently using hormonal contraception (Day 1 Start or Sunday Start) Important: Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of this product. Tablet Color: Tri-Mili active tablets are white (Day 1 to Day 7), light blue (Day 8 to Day 14) and dark blue (Day 15 to Day 21). Tri-Mili has green inactive tablets (Day 22 to Day 28). Due to the potential risk of becoming pregnant, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient’s first cycle pack of Tri-Mili. Switching to Tri-Mili from another oral contraceptive Start on the same day that a new pack of the previous oral contraceptive would have started. Switching from another contraceptive method to Tri-Mili Start Tri-Mili: ● Transdermal patch On the day when next application would have been scheduled ● Vaginal ring On the day when next insertion would have been scheduled ● Injection On the day when next injection would have been scheduled ● Intrauterine contraceptive On the day of removal If the IUD is not removed on first day of the patient’s menstrual cycle, additional non-hormonal contraceptive (such as condoms and spermicide) is needed for the first seven days of the first cycle pack. ● Implant On the day of removal Complete instructions to facilitate patient counseling on proper tablet usage are located in the FDA-Approved Patient Labeling. Starting Tri-Mili after Abortion or Miscarriage First-trimester After a first-trimester abortion or miscarriage, Tri-Mili may be started immediately. An additional method of contraception is not needed if Tri-Mili is started immediately. If Tri-Mili is not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy, the patient should use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of her first cycle pack of Tri-Mili. Start Tri-Mili, following the instructions in Table 1 for Day 1 or Sunday start, as desired. If using Sunday start, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient’s first cycle pack of Tri-Mili [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Starting Tri-Mili after Childbirth Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start contraceptive therapy with Tri-Mili following the instructions in Table 1 for women not currently using hormonal contraception. Tri-Mili is not recommended for use in lactating women [see Use in Specific Populations (8.2) ]. If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum, consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of Tri-Mili [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , and Use in Specific Populations (8.1 , and 8.2) ]. Table 2 describes instructions for Tri-Mili dosing and use of additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms) when active tablets are missed. Table 2: Instructions for Missed Tri-Mili Tablets If one active tablet is missed in Weeks 1, 2, or 3 Take the tablet as soon as possible. 2.4 Tri-Mili Use for Acne The timing of initiation of dosing with Tri-Mili for acne should follow the guidelines for use of Tri-Mili as an oral contraceptive. ( 2.2 ) Take tablets in the order directed on the blister. ( 2.2 ) Do not skip or delay tablet intake. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 How to Start Tri-Lo-Marzia Tri-Lo-Marzia is dispensed in a blister [see HOW SUPPLIED/STORAGE AND HANDLING ( 16 )]. Tri-Lo-Marzia may be started using either a Day 1 start or a Sunday start (see Table 1). 2.2 How to Take Tri-Lo-Marzia Table 1 : Instructions for Administration of Tri - Lo - Marzia Starting COCs in women not currently using hormonal contraception ( Day 1 Start or Sunday Start ) Important : Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of this product. Tablet Color : ο Tri-Lo-Marzia active tablets are white to off white (Day 1 to Day 7), light blue (Day 8 to Day 15) and blue (Day 16 to Day 21) and has green inactive tablets ( Day 22 to Day 28) Day 1 Start : ο Take first active tablet without regard to meals on the first day of menses. ο Take subsequent active tablets once daily at the same time each day for a total of 21 days. ο Take one green inactive tablet daily for 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken. ο Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack (i.e., on the day after taking the last inactive tablet) Sunday Start : ο Take first active tablet without regard to meals on the first Sunday after the onset of menses. Due to the potential risk of becoming pregnant , use additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) for the first seven days of the patient’s first cycle pack of Tri - Lo - Marzia . ο Take one green inactive tablet daily for the following 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken. ο Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack (i.e., on the Sunday after taking the last inactive tablet) and additional non-hormonal contraceptive is not needed. Switching to Tri - Lo - Marzia from another oral contraceptive Start on the same day that a new pack of the previous oral contraceptive would have started. Switching from another contraceptive method to Tri - Lo - Marzia Start Tri - Lo - Marzia : ο Transdermal patch ο On the day when next application would have been scheduled ο Vaginal ring ο On the day when next insertion would have been scheduled ο Injection ο On the day when next injection would have been scheduled ο Intrauterine contraceptive ο On the day of removal ο If the IUD is not removed on first day of the patient’s menstrual cycle, additional non-hormonal contraceptive (such as condoms and spermicide) is needed for the first seven days of the first cycle pack. ο Implant ο On the day of removal Complete instructions to facilitate patient counseling on proper tablet usage are located in the FDA - Approved Patient Labeling . Starting Tri-Lo-Marzia after Abortion or Miscarriage First-trimester: After a first-trimester abortion or miscarriage, Tri-Lo-Marzia may be started immediately. An additional method of contraception is not needed if Tri-Lo-Marzia is started immediately. If Tri-Lo-Marzia is not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy, the patient should use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of her first cycle pack of Tri-Lo-Marzia. Second-trimester: Do not start until 4 weeks after a second-trimester abortion or miscarriage, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start Tri-Lo-Marzia, following the instructions in Table 1 for Day 1 or Sunday start, as desired. If using Sunday start, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient's first cycle pack of Tri-Lo-Marzia. [see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ), WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 ), and FDA-APPROVED PATIENT LABELING.] Starting Tri-Lo-Marzia after Childbirth Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start contraceptive therapy with Tri-Lo-Marzia following the instructions in Table 1 for women not currently using hormonal contraception. Tri-Lo-Marzia is not recommended for use in lactating women [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.3 )]. If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum, consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of Tri-Lo-Marzia. [see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ), WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 ), USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS AND ( 8.1 AND 8.3 ), and FDA-APPROVED PATIENT LABELING]. Blister Pack: SET THE DAY Sunday Start: Each blister has been preprinted with the days of the week, starting with Sunday, to facilitate a Sunday-Start regimen. Day 1 Start: Six different day label strips of the week have been provided with this pack in order to accommodate a Day-1 Start regimen. Place this day label strip over the area that has the days of the week (starting with Sunday) pre-printed on the blister (Refer figure below). wallet 2.3 Missed Tablets Table 2 : Instructions for Missed Tri - Lo - Marzia Tablets Ο If one active tablet is missed in Weeks 1, 2, or 3 Take the tablet as soon as possible. Ο If two active tablets are missed in Week 1 or Week 2 Take the two missed tablets as soon as possible and the next two active tablets the next day. Additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) should be used as backup if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing tablets . Ο If two active tablets are missed in the third week or three or more active tablets are missed in a row in Weeks 1, 2, or 3 Day 1 start : Throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day. Additional non - hormonal contraception ( such as condoms and spermicide ) should be used as back - up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing tablets . 2.4 Advice in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances In case of severe vomiting or diarrhea, absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day (2.2) Take tablets in the order directed on the blister pack (2.2) Do not skip or delay tablet intake. (2.2) 2.1 How to Start Mono-Linyah Mono-Linyah is dispensed in 28-tablet blister [see How Supplied/Storage and Handling ( 16 )]. Mono-Linyah may be started using either a Day 1 start or a Sunday start (see Table 1). The plastic compact is pre-set for a Sunday start. Day 1 Start day-label stickers are available. 2.2 How to Take Mono-Linyah Starting Mono-Linyah after Abortion or Miscarriage First-trimester After a first-trimester abortion or miscarriage, Mono-Linyah may be started immediately. An additional method of contraception is not needed if Mono-Linyah is started immediately. If Mono-Linyah is not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy, the patient should use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of her first cycle pack of Mono-Linyah. Start Mono-Linyah, following the instructions in Table 1 for Day 1 or Sunday start, as desired. If using Sunday start, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient's first cycle pack of Mono-Linyah. [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), and FDA-Approved Patient Labeling .] Starting Mono-Linyah after Childbirth Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start contraceptive therapy with Mono-Linyah following the instructions in Table 1 for women not currently using hormonal contraception. Mono-Linyah is not recommended for use in lactating women [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.3 )] . If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum, consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of Mono-Linyah. [See Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 and 8.3 ), and FDA-Approved Patient Labeling ]. Compact Blister Dispenser If the patient starts pill-taking on Sunday, the first active pill should be taken on the first Sunday after the patient's menstrual period begins. Remove the first active pill at the top of the dispenser (Sunday) by pressing the pill through the blister foil. If the patient will start pill-taking on "Day 1", place a day-label sticker on the compact which starts with the day of the week the patient will take the first pill. Remove the first active pill at the top of the dispenser (Day 1) by pressing the pill through the blister foil. 2.3 Missed Tablets 2.4 Advice in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances In case of severe vomiting or diarrhea, absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken. If vomiting or diarrhea occurs within 3 to 4 hours after taking an active tablet, handle this as a missed tablet [see FDA-Approved Patient Labeling ] . 1 2 Table 1 provides the recommended dosage and administration instructions for norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg and Norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg. Table 1: Instructions for Administration of Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg, or Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg Starting COCs in women not currently using hormonal contraception (Day 1 Start or Sunday Start) Important: Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of this product. Tablet Color: • Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg active tablets are blue (Day 1 to Day 21). • Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg active tablets are white to off-white (Day 1 to Day 7), light blue (Day 8 to Day 14) and blue (Day 15 to Day 21). • Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg, and Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg both have light green inactive tablets (Day 22 to Day 28). • Take one light green inactive tablet daily for 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken. Due to the potential risk of becoming pregnant, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient’s first cycle pack of Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg, or Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg. • Take one light green inactive tablet daily for the following 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken. Switching to Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg, or Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg from another oral contraceptive Start on the same day that a new pack of the previous oral contraceptive would have started. Switching from another contraceptive method to Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg, or Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg Start Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg, or Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg: • Transdermal patch • On the day when next application would have been scheduled • Vaginal ring • On the day when next insertion would have been scheduled • Injection • On the day when next injection would have been scheduled • Intrauterine contraceptive • On the day of removal • If the IUD is not removed on first day of the patient’s menstrual cycle, additional non-hormonal contraceptive (such as condoms and spermicide) is needed for the first seven days of the first cycle pack. Starting Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg, or Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg after Abortion or Miscarriage First-trimester • After a first-trimester abortion or miscarriage, Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg, or Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg may be started immediately. An additional method of contraception is not needed if Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg, or Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg are started immediately. • If Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg, or Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg are not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy, the patient should use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of her first cycle pack of Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg, or Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg. Start Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg, or Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg, following the instructions in Table 1 for Day 1 or Sunday start, as desired. If using Sunday start, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient’s first cycle pack of Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg, or Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg. [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Starting Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg, or Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg after Childbirth • Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start contraceptive therapy with Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg, or Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg following the instructions in Table 1 for women not currently using hormonal contraception. • Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg, or Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg are not recommended for use in lactating women [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.2 )]. • If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum, consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg, or Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg. [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 and 8.2 )]. Table 2 describes instructions for norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg, or norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg dosing and use of additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms) when active tablets are missed. Table 2: Instructions for Missed Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg, or Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg • If one active tablet is missed in Weeks 1, 2, or 3 Take the tablet as soon as possible. 2.4 Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg Use for Acne The timing of initiation of dosing with Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg for acne should follow the guidelines for use of Norgestimate and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, 0.18 mg/0.035 mg, 0.215 mg/0.035 mg, 0.25 mg/0.035 mg as an oral contraceptive. (2.2) Take tablets in the order directed on the blister pack. (2.2) Do not skip or delay tablet intake. (2.2) 2.1 How to Start Tri Femynor Tri Femynor tablets are dispensed in a blister pack [ see How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16) ]. Tri Femynor may be started using either a Day 1 start or a Sunday start (see Table 1). 2.2 How to Take Tri Femynor Table 1: Instructions for Administration of Tri Femynor Starting COCs in women not currently using hormonal contraception (Day 1 Start or Sunday Start) Important: Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of this product. Tablet Color: Tri Femynor active tablets are light pink (Day 1 to day 7), light red (Day 8 to Day 15) and red (Day 16 to Day 21). Tri Femynor has white inactive tablets (Day 22 to Day 28). Day 1 Start: Take first light pink “active” tablet without regard to meals on the first day of menses. Take subsequent light pink, light red or red “active” tablets once daily at the same time each day for a total of 21 days. Take one white “inactive” tablet daily for 7 days and at the same time of day that “active” tablets were taken. Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack (i.e., on the day after taking the last white “inactive” tablet) Sunday Start: Take first light pink “active” tablet without regard to meals on the first Sunday after the onset of menses. Due to the potential risk of becoming pregnant, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient's first cycle pack of Tri Femynor . Take one white “inactive” tablet daily for the following 7 days and at the same time of day that “active” tablets were taken. Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack (i.e., on the Sunday after taking the last white “inactive” tablet) and additional non-hormonal contraceptive is not needed. Switching to Tri Femynor from another oral contraceptive Start on the same day that a new pack of the previous oral contraceptive would have started. Switching from another contraceptive method to Tri Femynor Start Tri Femynor : Transdermal patch On the day when next application would have been scheduled Vaginal ring On the day when next insertion would have been scheduled Injection On the day when next injection would have been scheduled Intrauterine contraceptive On the day of removal If the IUD is not removed on first day of the patient's menstrual cycle, additional non-hormonal contraceptive (such as condoms and spermicide) is needed for the first seven days of the first cycle pack. Starting Tri Femynor after Abortion or Miscarriage First-trimester After a first-trimester abortion or miscarriage, Tri Femynor may be started immediately. An additional method of contraception is not needed if Tri Femynor is started immediately. If Tri Femynor is not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy, the patient should use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of her first cycle pack of Tri Femynor. Start Tri Femynor, following the instructions in Table 1 for Day 1 or Sunday start, as desired. If using Sunday start, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient's first cycle pack of Tri Femynor. [ See Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , and FDA-Approved Patient Labeling .] Starting Tri Femynor after Childbirth Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start contraceptive therapy with Tri Femynor following the instructions in Table 1 for women not currently using hormonal contraception. Tri Femynor is not recommended for use in lactating women [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.3) ]. If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum, consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of Tri Femynor. [ See Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.1 and 8.3) , and FDA-Approved Patient Labeling ]. SET THE DAY:  Day 1 Start: Take the first pill of the first blister pack during the first 24 hours of your period.  Sunday Start: Take the first pill of the first blister pack on the Sunday after your period starts, even if you are still bleeding. If your period begins on Sunday, start the blister pack that same day. blister for PI 2.3 Missed Tablets Table 2: Instructions for Missed Tri Femynor If one light pink, light red or red “active” tablet is missed in Weeks 1, 2, or 3 Take the tablet as soon as possible. If two light pink or light red “active” tablets are missed in Week 1 or Week 2 Take the two missed tablets as soon as possible and the next two “active” tablets the next day. If two red “active” tablets are missed in the third week or three or more light pink, light red or red “active” tablets are missed in a row in Weeks 1, 2, or 3 Day 1 start : Throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day. If vomiting or diarrhea occurs within 3 to 4 hours after taking a light pink, light red or red “active” tablet, handle this as a missed tablet [ see FDA-Approved Patient Labeling ]. 2.5 Tri Femynor Use for Acne The timing of initiation of dosing with Tri Femynor for acne should follow the guidelines for use of Tri Femynor as an oral contraceptive. Consult the DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section (2.1) for instructions.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sprintec is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions: A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases. Examples include women who are known to: Smoke, if over age 35 [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Have deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism, now or in the past [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Have cerebrovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Have coronary artery disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart (for example, subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease, or atrial fibrillation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Have uncontrolled hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] Have diabetes mellitus with vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or migraine headaches with aura [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] Women over age 35 with any migraine headaches [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] Liver tumors, benign or malignant, or liver disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] Current diagnosis of, or history of, breast cancer, which may be hormone-sensitive [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) Liver tumors or liver disease ( 4 ) Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) Breast cancer ( 4 ) Coadministration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets are contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions: • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases. Examples include women who are known to: o Smoke, if over age 35 [see BOXED WARNING AND WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )] o Have deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism, now or in the past [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )] o Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )] o Have cerebrovascular disease [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )] o Have coronary artery disease [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )] o Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart (for example, subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease, or atrial fibrillation) [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )] o Have uncontrolled hypertension [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.4 )] o Have diabetes mellitus with vascular disease [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.6 )] o Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or migraine headaches with aura [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.7 )] ■ Women over age 35 with any migraine headaches [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.7 )] • Liver tumors, benign or malignant, or liver disease [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.2 )] • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.8 )] • Pregnancy, because there is no reason to use COCs during pregnancy [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.9 ) AND USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.1 )] • Current diagnosis of, or history of, breast cancer, which may be hormone-sensitive [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.11 )] • Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) • Liver tumors or liver disease ( 4 ) • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) • Pregnancy( 4 ) • Current diagnosis of, or history of, breast cancer, which may be hormone-sensitive ( 4 ) • Co-administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS VyLibra is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions: A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases. Examples include women who are known to: Smoke, if over age 35 [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Have deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism, now or in the past [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Have inherited or acquired hyper coagulopathies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Have cerebrovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Have coronary artery disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart (for example, subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease, or atrial fibrillation) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Have uncontrolled hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Have diabetes mellitus with vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or migraine headaches with aura [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] Women over age 35 with any migraine headaches [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] Liver tumors, benign or malignant, or liver disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] Current diagnosis of, or history of, breast cancer, which may be hormone-sensitive [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) Liver tumors or liver disease ( 4 ) Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) Breast cancer ( 4 ) Co-administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tri-Estarylla is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions: A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases. Examples include women who are known to: Smoke, if over age 35 [see BOXED WARNING and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )] Have deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism, now or in the past [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )] Have inherited or acquired hyper coagulopathies [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )] Have cerebrovascular disease [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )] Have coronary artery disease [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )] Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart (for example, subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease, or atrial fibrillation) [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )] Have uncontrolled hypertension [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.4 )] Have diabetes mellitus with vascular disease [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.6 )] Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or migraine headaches with aura [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.7 )] Women over age 35 with any migraine headaches [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.7 )] Liver tumors, benign or malignant, or liver disease [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.2 )] Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.8 )] Pregnancy, because there is no reason to use COCs during pregnancy [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.9 ) and USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.1 )] Current diagnosis of, or history of, breast cancer, which may be hormone-sensitive [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.11 )] Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for ALT elevations [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.3 )] A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) Liver tumors or liver disease ( 4 ) Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) Breast cancer ( 4 ) Co-administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tri-Sprintec ® is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions: • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases. Examples include women who are known to: o Smoke, if over age 35 [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( )] o Have deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism, now or in the past [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] o Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] o Have cerebrovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] o Have coronary artery disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] o Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart (for example, subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease, or atrial fibrillation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] o Have uncontrolled hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] o Have diabetes mellitus with vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] o Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or migraine headaches with aura [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] ▪ Women over age 35 with any migraine headaches [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] • Liver tumors, benign or malignant, or liver disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] • Current diagnosis of, or history of, breast cancer, which may be hormone-sensitive [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] • Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) • Liver tumors or liver disease ( 4 ) • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) • Breast cancer ( 4 ) • Co-administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tri-Mili is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions: A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) Liver tumors or liver disease ( 4 ) Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) Pregnancy ( 4 ) Current diagnosis of, or history of, breast cancer, which may be hormone-sensitive ( 4 ) Co-administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir ( 4 ) Tri-Lo-Marzia is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions: A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases. Examples include women who are known to: o Smoke, if over age 35 [see BOXED WARNING and WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )] o Have deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism, now or in the past [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )] o Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )] o Have cerebrovascular disease [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )] o Have coronary artery disease [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )] o Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart (for example, subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease, or atrial fibrillation) [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )] o Have uncontrolled hypertension [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.4 )] o Have diabetes mellitus with vascular disease [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.6 )] o Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or migraine headaches with aura [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.7 )] o Women over age 35 with any migraine headaches [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.7 )] Liver tumors, benign or malignant, or liver disease [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.2 )] Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.8 )] Pregnancy, because there is no reason to use COCs during pregnancy [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.9 ) and USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.1 )] Current diagnosis of, or history of, breast cancer, which may be hormone-sensitive [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.11 )] Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for ALT elevations [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.3 )] 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases (4) Liver tumors or liver disease (4) Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding (4) Pregnancy (4) Breast cancer or other estrogen- or progestin-sensitive cancer (4) Co-administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir ( 4 ) Do not prescribe Mono-Linyah to women who are known to have the following conditions: A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases. Examples include women who are known to: Smoke, if over age 35 [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Have deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism, now or in the past [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Have cerebrovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Have coronary artery disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart (for example, subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease, or atrial fibrillation) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Have uncontrolled hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Have diabetes mellitus with vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or have migraine headaches with aura [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] Women over age 35 with any migraine headaches [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] Liver tumors, benign or malignant, or liver disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] Pregnancy, because there is no reason to use COCs during pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) and Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ] Breast cancer or other estrogen- or progestin-sensitive cancer, now or in the past [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Examples include women who are known to: ∘ Smoke, if over age 35 [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] ∘ Have deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism, now or in the past [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] ∘ Have inherited or acquired hyper coagulopathies [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] ∘ Have cerebrovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] ∘ Have coronary artery disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] ∘ Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart (for example, subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease, or atrial fibrillation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] ∘ Have uncontrolled hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] ∘ Have diabetes mellitus with vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] ∘ Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or migraine headaches with aura [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] ▪ Women over age 35 with any migraine headaches [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] • Liver tumors, benign or malignant, or liver disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] • Current diagnosis of, or history of, breast cancer, which may be hormone-sensitive [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] • Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) • Liver tumors or liver disease ( 4 ) • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) • Breast cancer ( 4 ) • Co-administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not prescribe Tri Femynor to women who are known to have the following conditions: A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases. Examples include women who are known to: Smoke, if over age 35 [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Have deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism, now or in the past [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Have cerebrovascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Have coronary artery disease [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart (for example, subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease, or atrial fibrillation) [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Have uncontrolled hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Have diabetes mellitus with vascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or migraine headaches with aura [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] Women over age 35 with any migraine headaches [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] Liver tumors, benign or malignant, or liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] Pregnancy, because there is no reason to use COCs during pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) and Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ] Breast cancer or other estrogen- or progestin-sensitive cancer, now or in the past [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases (4) Liver tumors or liver disease (4) Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding (4) Pregnancy (4) Breast cancer or other estrogen- or progestin-sensitive cancer (4)
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Consult the labeling of concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations. No drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with Sprintec. Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes including CYP3A4, may decrease the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding. Counsel patients to use a back-up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with COCs. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances decreasing the plasma concentrations of COCs Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, including cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4), may decrease the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminish the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding. Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include phenytoin, barbiturates, carbamazepine, bosentan, felbamate, griseofulvin, oxcarbazepine, rifampicin, topiramate, rifabutin, rufinamide, aprepitant, and products containing St. John’s wort. Interactions between hormonal contraceptives and other drugs may lead to breakthrough bleeding and/or contraceptive failure. Counsel women to use an alternative method of contraception or a back-up method when enzyme inducers are used with COCs, and to continue back-up contraception for 28 days after discontinuing the enzyme inducer to ensure contraceptive reliability. Colesevelam : Colesevelam, a bile acid sequestrant, given together with a COC, has been shown to significantly decrease the AUC of EE. The drug interaction between the contraceptive and colesevelam was decreased when the two drug products were given 4 hours apart. Substances increasing the plasma concentrations of COCs Coadministration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and certain COCs containing ethinyl estradiol (EE) increase AUC values for EE by approximately 20 to 25%. Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase plasma EE concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation. CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole, voriconazole, fluconazole, grapefruit juice, or ketoconazole may increase plasma hormone concentrations. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/Hepatitis C virus (HCV) protease inhibitors, non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, and HIV/AIDS medications containing strong inhibitors or inducers of CYP3A Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma concentrations of estrogen and/or progestin have been noted in some cases of coadministration with HIV protease inhibitors (decrease [e.g., nelfinavir, ritonavir, darunavir/ritonavir, (fos)amprenavir/ritonavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, and tipranavir/ritonavir] or increase [e.g., indinavir and atazanavir/ritonavir])/HCV protease inhibitors (decrease [e.g., boceprevir and telaprevir]) or with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (decrease [e.g., nevirapine] or increase [e.g., etravirine]) or with HIV/AIDS medications containing strong inhibitors (e.g., cobicistat and ritonavir) or inducers of CYP3A. 7.2 Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs COCs containing EE may inhibit the metabolism of other compounds (e.g., cyclosporine, prednisolone, theophylline, tizanidine, and voriconazole) and increase their plasma concentrations. COCs have been shown to decrease plasma concentrations of acetaminophen, clofibric acid, morphine, salicylic acid, temazepam and lamotrigine. Significant decrease in plasma concentration of lamotrigine has been shown, likely due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation. This may reduce seizure control; therefore, dosage adjustments of lamotrigine may be necessary. Women on thyroid hormone replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone because the serum concentration of thyroid-binding globulin increases with use of COCs. 7.3 Interference with Laboratory Tests The use of contraceptive steroids may influence the results of certain laboratory tests, such as coagulation factors, lipids, glucose tolerance, and binding proteins. 7.4 Concomitant Use with HCV Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not coadminister Sprintec with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes including CYP3A4, may decrease the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding. ( 7.1 ) Consult the labeling of concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations. No drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets. 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances decreasing the plasma concentrations of COCs Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, including cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4), may decrease the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminish the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding. John's wort. Colesevelam: Colesevelam, a bile acid sequestrant, given together with a COC, has been shown to significantly decrease the AUC of EE. Substances increasing the plasma concentrations of COCs Co-administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and certain COCs containing ethinyl estradiol (EE) increase AUC values for EE by approximately 20 to 25%. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/Hepatitis C virus (HCV) protease inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma concentrations of estrogen and/or progestin have been noted in some cases of co-administration with HIV protease inhibitors (decrease [e.g., nelfinavir, ritonavir, darunavir/ritonavir, (fos)amprenavir/ritonavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, and tipranavir/ritonavir] or increase [e.g., indinavir and atazanavir/ritonavir])/HCV protease inhibitors (decrease [e.g., boceprevir and telaprevir]) or with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (decrease [e.g., nevirapine] or increase [e.g., etravirine]). 7.2 Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs • COCs containing EE may inhibit the metabolism of other compounds (e.g., cyclosporine, prednisolone, theophylline, tizanidine, and voriconazole) and increase their plasma concentrations. • COCs have been shown to decrease plasma concentrations of acetaminophen, clofibric acid, morphine, salicylic acid, temazepam and lamotrigine. 7.4 Concomitant Use with HCV Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not co-administer norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . No drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with VyLibra. (7.1) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances decreasing the plasma concentrations of COCs Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, including cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4), may decrease the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminish the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/Hepatitis C virus (HCV) protease inhibitors, non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, and HIV/AIDS medications containing strong inhibitors or inducers of CYP3A Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma concentrations of estrogen and/or progestin have been noted in some cases of co-administration with HIV protease inhibitors (decrease [e.g., nelfinavir, ritonavir, darunavir/ritonavir, (fos)amprenavir/ritonavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, and tipranavir/ritonavir] or increase [e.g., indinavir and atazanavir/ritonavir])/HCV protease inhibitors (decrease [e.g., boceprevir and telaprevir]) or with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (decrease [e.g., nevirapine] or increase [e.g., etravirine]) or with HIV/AIDS medications containing strong inhibitors (e.g., cobicistat and ritonavir) or inducers of CYP3A. 7.4 Concomitant Use with HCV Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not co-administer VyLibra with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. No drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives: Substances Decreasing the Plasma Concentrations of COCs: Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, including cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4), may decrease the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminish the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding. Substances Increasing the Plasma Concentrations of COCs: Co-administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and certain COCs containing ethinyl estradiol (EE) increase AUC values for EE by approximately 20-25%. 7.4 Concomitant Use with HCV Combination Therapy - Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not co-administer norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to potential for ALT elevations [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.3 )] . No drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with Tri-Sprintec ® . () 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances decreasing the plasma concentrations of COCs Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, including cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4), may decrease the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminish the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding. 7.4 Concomitant Use with HCV Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not co-administer Tri-Sprintec ® with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] . No drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with Tri-Mili. 7.4 Concomitant Use with HCV Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not co-administer Tri-Mili with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. No drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with Tri-Lo-Marzia. Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of COCs include phenytoin, barbiturates, carbamazepine, bosentan, felbamate, griseofulvin, oxcarbazepine, rifampicin, topiramate, rifabutin, rufinamide, aprepitant and products containing St. Interactions between COCs and other drugs may lead to breakthrough bleeding and/or contraceptive failure. Colesevelam Colesevelam, a bile acid sequestrant, given together with a COC, has been shown to significantly decrease the AUC of ethinyl estradiol (EE). Substances Increasing the Plasma Concentrations of COCs Co-administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and certain COCs containing EE increase AUC values for EE by approximately 20 to 25%. 7.4 Concomitant Use with HCV Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not co-administer Tri-Lo-Marzia Tablets with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to potential for ALT elevations [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.3 )] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, including CYP3A4, may decrease the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding. Counsel patients to use a back-up method or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with COCs. No drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with Mono-Linyah. 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances decreasing the plasma concentrations of COCs : Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, including cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4), may decrease the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminish the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding. Substances increasing the plasma concentrations of COCs : Co-administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and certain COCs containing ethinyl estradiol (EE) increase AUC values for EE by approximately 20-25%. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/Hepatitis C virus (HCV) protease inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors : Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma concentrations of estrogen and/or progestin have been noted in some cases of co-administration with HIV protease inhibitors (decrease [e.g., nelfinavir, ritonavir, darunavir/ritonavir, (fos)amprenavir/ritonavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, and tipranavir/ritonavir] or increase [e.g., indinavir and atazanavir/ritonavir])/HCV protease inhibitors (decrease [e.g., boceprevir and telaprevir]) or with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (decrease [e.g., nevirapine] or increase [e.g., etravirine]). 7.3 Interactions with Laboratory Tests The use of contraceptive steroids may influence the results of certain laboratory tests, such as coagulation factors, lipids, glucose tolerance, and binding proteins. 7.4 Concomitant Use with HCV Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not co-administer Mono-Linyah with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Substances increasing the plasma concentrations of COCs: Co-administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and certain COCs containing ethinyl estradiol (EE) increase AUC values for EE by approximately 20 to 25%. 7.4 Concomitant Use with HCV Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not co-administer norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol tablets with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. No drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with Tri Femynor. (7.1) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances decreasing the plasma concentrations of COCs : Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, including cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4), may decrease the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminish the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding. Substances increasing the plasma concentrations of COCs : Co-administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and certain COCs containing ethinyl estradiol (EE) increase AUC values for EE by approximately 20 to 25%. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/Hepatitis C virus (HCV) protease inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors: Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma concentrations of estrogen and/or progestin have been noted in some cases of co-administration with HIV protease inhibitors (decrease [e.g., nelfinavir, ritonavir, darunavir/ritonavir, (fos)amprenavir/ritonavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, and tipranavir/ritonavir] or increase [e.g., indinavir and atazanavir/ritonavir])/HCV protease inhibitors (decrease [e.g., boceprevir and telaprevir]) or with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (decrease [e.g., nevirapine] or increase [e.g., etravirine]).

=== ALUMINUM ZIRCONIUM OCTACHLOROHYDREX GLY ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antiperspirant
Indications: Use reduces underarm wetness
Dosage: Directions apply to underarms only apply 2-3 clicks of product to underarms at bedtime Directions apply to underarms only Directions apply to underarms only apply 2-3 clicks as needed
Warnings: Warnings For external use only. Do not use on broken skin Ask a doctor before use if you have kidney disease Stop use if rash or irritation occurs Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.

=== EUCALYPTUS OIL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Cough suppressant & topical analgesic Cough suppressant Cough suppressant & topical analgesic Purpose Cough suppressant & topical analgesic Purpose Camphor - Cough suppressant & topical analgesic Eucalyptus oil - Cough suppressant Menthol - Cough suppressant & topical analgesic Purposes cough suppressant / topical analgesic Purpose Organic Camphor 5.0%.......................Topical Antitussive Organic Menthol 2.8%.........................Topical Antitussive Organic Eucalyptus Oil 1.3%...............Topical Antitussive Purpose Organic Camphor 4.7%......................Topical Antitussive Organic Menthol 2.6%........................Topical Antitussive Organic Eucalyptus Oil 1.2%..............Topical Antitussive
Indications: Uses when applied to chest and throat, temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation associated with the common cold when applied to muscles and joints, temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints Uses temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation associated with a cold temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints Uses • when applied to chest and throat, temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation associated with the common cold • when applied to muscles and joints, temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints Uses When applied to chest or throat: Temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation associated with a common cold When applied to muscles and joints: Temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints Uses Uses Temporarily relieves throat and chest ■cough ■ nasal congestion due to common cold ■aching muscles ■ minor aches and pains Uses Temporarily relieves cough associated with the common cold. Uses on chest and throat, temporarily relieves cough due to common cold on muscles and joints, temporarily relieves minor aches and pains
Dosage: Directions see important warnings under "When using this product" adults and children 2 years and over: for cough suppression rub a thick layer on throat & chest cover with a warm, dry cloth if desired keep clothing loose about throat and chest to help vapors reach the nose and mouth use up to three times daily or as directed by doctor for muscle / joint minor aches and pains apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 2 years: do not use Directions See important warnings under "When using this product" • adults and children 2 years and over: > Rub a thick layer on the throat and chest for cough, or rub on sore aching muscles or joints > Clothing should be left loose about the throat and chest to help vapors reach the nose and mouth > Use up to 3 times daily or as directed by doctor Cover with a warm, dry cloth if desired • children under 2 years: do not use Directions see important warnings under "When using this product" adults and children 2 years and over: for cough suppression rub a thick layer on the throat and chest cover with a warm, dry cloth if desired keep clothing loose about throat and chest to help vapors reach the nose and mouth use up to three times daily or as directed by a doctor for muscle/joint minor aches and pains apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 2 years: do not use Directions see important warnings under "When using this product" adults and children 2 years and over: for cough suppression rub a thick layer on throat & chest cover with a warm, dry cloth if desired keep clothing loose about throat and chest to help vapors reach the nose and mouth use up to three times daily or as directed by doctor for muscle/joint minor aches and pains apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 2 years: do not use Directions See important warnings under "When using this product" For Cough Suppression: Adults and children 2 years and older: ▪ Rub on the throat and chest in a thick layer ▪ Cover with a warm, dry cloth if desired ▪ Clothing should be loose around throat and chest to help vapors reach the nose and mouth ▪ Use up to 3 times daily or as directed by a doctor Children under 2 years of age: ▪ Ask a doctor For Muscle & Joint Minor Aches and Pains: Adults and children 2 years and older : ▪ Clean affected area before applying ▪ Apply to affected area no more than 3 to 4 times daily Children under 2 years of age: ▪ Consult a doctor Directions Directions ■ see important warnings above ■children under 2 years of age, ask a doctor before using this product ■adults and children 2 years and older, rub a thick layer on chest and throat or rub on sore aching muscles. If desired cover it with a dry soft cloth but keep clothing loose. Repeat up to 3 times daily. Directions See important warnings under "When using this product" Adults: rub on the throat, chest and/or bottom of feet massage into skin until solution vanishes cover with a warm, dry cloth if desired clothing should be loose about throat and chest to help vapors reach the nose and mouth use up to 3 times daily or as directed by a doctor Directions See important warnings under "When using this product" Children 2 years and older: rub on the throat and chest in a thick layer cover with a warm dry cloth if desired clothing should be loose about throat and chest to help vapors reach the nose and mouth use up to 3 times daily or as directed by a doctor Children under 2 years of age: Ask a doctor. Directions See imporatant warning under "When using this product" adults & children 2 yrs & over: rub a thick layer on chest & throat or rub on sore aching muscles cover with warm, dry cloth if desired keep clothing loose about throat/chest to help vapors reach the nose/mouth repeat up to three times per 24 hours or as directed by doctor children under 2 years of age: ask a doctor Directions see important warnings under “When using this product” adults and children 2 years and over: for cough suppression rub a thick layer on throat & chest cover with a warm, dry cloth if desired keep clothing loose about throat and chest to help vapors reach the nose and mouth use up to three times daily or as directed by doctor for muscle / joint minor aches and pains apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 2 years: do not use
Warnings: Warnings For external use only; avoid contact with eyes. Do not use by mouth in nostrils on wounds or damaged skin with tight bandages Ask a doctor before use if you have cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma or emphysema When using this product, do not heat microwave add to hot water or any container where heating water. May cause splattering and result in burns. Stop use and ask a doctor if muscle aches and pains worsen or persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days. cough persists for more than 1 week, tends to recur, or is accompanied by fever, rash, or persistent headache. A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only; avoid contact with eyes Do not use by mouth in nostrils on wounds or damaged skin with tight bandages Ask a doctor before use if you have cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, or emphysema When using this product, do not heat microwave add to hot water or any container where heating water. cough persists for more than 1 week, tends to recur, or is accompanied by a fever, rash, or persistent headache. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Do not use • by mouth • in nostrils • on wounds or damaged skin • with tight bandages Ask a doctor before use if you have • cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma or emphysema When using this product, do not heat microwave add to hot water or any container where heating water. Stop use and ask a doctor if • muscle aches and pains worsen or persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • cough persists for more than 1 week, tends to recur, or is accompanied by fever, rash, or persistent headache. Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor before use if you have: A cough with too much phlegm (mucus) Chronic cough that lasts or occurs with smoking, asthma, or emphysema When using this product, do not : Heat Microwave Add to hot water or any container where heating water may cause splattering and burns Take by mouth or place in nostrils Use in or near eyes Apply to wounds or damaged skin Bandage tightly Use with other topical pain relievers Stop Use and Ask a Doctor If Muscle aches and pains worsen or last more than 7 days Symptoms clear up and then return within a few days Cough persists more than 1 week, tends to recur, or is accompanied by: Fever, Rash, Persistent headache A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition Redness or irritation develops If Pregnant or Breast-feeding : Ask a health professional before use. Keep Out of Reach of Children .If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warning For external use only Avoid contact with eyes Do not Use Do not use ■by mouth ■ in nostrils ■on wounds or damaged skin ■ with tight bandages Ask a doctor before use if you have Ask a doctor before use if you have ■asthma ■excessive phlegm (mucus) ■emphysema ■persistent or chronic cough ■cough associated with smoking When using this product do not When using this product do not ■heat ■microwave ■use near open flame ■ Add hot water or any container where heating water may cause splattering and result in burns. Stop use and ask a doctor if Stop use and ask a doctor if ■muscle aches/pain persists more than 7 days()( comes back ■cough lasts more than 7 days, comes back, or occurs with fever, rash, or headache that lasts. These could be signs of a serious condition. If pregnant or breastfeeding ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, get medical help, or contact Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away Warnings For external use only Do not use by mouth in nostrils Ask a doctor before use if you have persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma or emphysema or if cough is accompanied by excessive phlegm (mucus). When using this product, do not heat microwave add to hot water or any container where heating water. Stop use and ask a doctor if a cough that persists for more than 1 week, tends to recur, or is accompanied by fever, rash, or persistent headache. If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. Warnings For external use only Do not use by mouth in nostrils Ask a doctor before use if you have persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with asthma or if cough is accompanied by excessive phlegm (mucus). Stop use and ask a doctor if a cough that persists for more than 1 week, tends to recur, or is accompanied by fevrer, rash, or persistent headache.

=== CITALOPRAM HYDROBROMIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Citalopram tablets are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . Citalopram tablets are a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults ( 1 ) . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Citalopram tablets are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . Citalopram is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults ( 1 ) . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Citalopram is indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . Citalopram is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults ( 1 ). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Citalopram tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of depression. The efficacy of citalopram in the treatment of depression was established in 4 to 6 week, controlled trials of outpatients whose diagnosis corresponded most closely to the DSM-III and DSM-III-R category of major depressive disorder (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). A major depressive episode (DSM-IV) implies a prominent and relatively persistent (nearly every day for at least 2 weeks) depressed or dysphoric mood that usually interferes with daily functioning, and includes at least five of the following nine symptoms: depressed mood, loss of interest in usual activities, significant change in weight and/or appetite, insomnia or hypersomnia, psychomotor agitation or retardation, increased fatigue, feelings of guilt or worthlessness, slowed thinking or impaired concentration, a suicide attempt or suicidal ideation. The antidepressant action of citalopram tablets, USP in hospitalized depressed patients has not been adequately studied. The efficacy of citalopram in maintaining an antidepressant response for up to 24 weeks following 6 to 8 weeks of acute treatment was demonstrated in two placebo-controlled trials (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Nevertheless, the physician who elects to use citalopram for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Citalopram tablets are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults [see Clinical Studies (14) ]. Citalopram tablets are a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults ( 1 ).
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer once daily with or without food ( 2 ) . Initial dosage is 20 mg once daily; after one week may increase to maximum dosage of 40 mg once daily ( 2.1 ). Patients greater than 60 years of age, patients with hepatic impairment, and CYP2C19 poor metabolizers: maximum recommended dosage is 20 mg once daily ( 2.2 ). When discontinuing citalopram tablets, reduce dosage gradually ( 2.4 , 5.6 ). 2.1 Recommended Dosage Administer citalopram tablets once daily, with or without food, at an initial dosage of 20 mg once daily, with an increase to a maximum dosage of 40 mg once daily at an interval of no less than one week. Dosages above 40 mg once daily are not recommended due to the risk of QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 2.2 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Citalopram Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with citalopram tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Specific Populations The maximum recommended dosage of citalopram tablets for patients who are greater than 60 years of age, patients with hepatic impairment, and for CYP2C19 poor metabolizers is 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.4 Dosage Modifications with Concomitant Use of CYP2C19 Inhibitors The maximum recommended dosage of citalopram tablets when used concomitantly with a CYP2C19 inhibitor is 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Drug Interactions (7) ]. 2.5 Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor Antidepressant At least 14 days must elapse between discontinuation of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) antidepressant and initiation of therapy with citalopram tablets. Conversely, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping citalopram tablets before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . 2.6 Discontinuing Treatment with Citalopram Tablets Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of citalopram tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . Gradually reduce the dosage rather than stopping citalopram tablets abruptly whenever possible. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer once daily with or without food ( 2 ) . • Initial dosage is 20 mg once daily; after one week may increase to maximum dosage of 40 mg once daily ( 2.1 ) . • Patients greater than 60 years of age, patients with hepatic impairment, and CYP2C19 poor metabolizers: maximum recommended dosage is 20 mg once daily ( 2.2 ) . • When discontinuing citalopram tablets, reduce dosage gradually ( 2.4 , 5.6 ) . Dosages above 40 mg once daily are not recommended due to the risk of QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . 2.2 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Citalopram Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with citalopram tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Specific Populations The maximum recommended dosage of citalopram tablets for patients who are greater than 60 years of age, patients with hepatic impairment, and for CYP2C19 poor metabolizers is 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.4 Dosage Modifications with Concomitant Use of CYP2C19 Inhibitors The maximum recommended dosage of citalopram tablets when used concomitantly with a CYP2C19 inhibitor is 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . Conversely, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping citalopram tablets before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . 2.6 Discontinuing Treatment with Citalopram Tablets Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of citalopram tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer once daily with or without food ( 2 ). When discontinuing Citalopram, reduce dosage gradually ( 2.4 , 5.6 ) . 2.1 Recommended Dosage Administer Citalopram once daily, with or without food, at an initial dosage of 20 mg once daily, with an increase to a maximum dosage of 40 mg once daily at an interval of no less than one week. 2.2 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Citalopram Prior to initiating treatment with Citalopram or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Specific Populations The maximum recommended dosage of Citalopram for patients who are greater than 60 years of age, patients with hepatic impairment, and for CYP2C19 poor metabolizers is 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.4 Dosage Modifications with Concomitant Use of CYP2C19 Inhibitors The maximum recommended dosage of Citalopram when used concomitantly with a CYP2C19 inhibitor is 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ]. 2.5 Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor Antidepressant At least 14 days must elapse between discontinuation of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) antidepressant and initiation of therapy with Citalopram. Conversely, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping Citalopram before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. 2.6 Discontinuing Treatment with Citalopram Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of Citalopram [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )]. Gradually reduce the dosage rather than stopping Citalopram abruptly whenever possible. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Citalopram tablets, USP should be administered once daily, in the morning or evening, with or without food. Initial Treatment Citalopram tablets should be administered at an initial dose of 20 mg once daily, with an increase to a maximum dose of 40 mg/day at an interval of no less than one week. Doses above 40 mg/day are not recommended due to the risk of QT prolongation. Additionally, the only study pertinent to dose response for effectiveness did not demonstrate an advantage for the 60 mg/day dose over the 40 mg/day dose. Special Populations 20 mg/day is the maximum recommended dose for patients who are greater than 60 years of age, patients with hepatic impairment, and for CYP2C19 poor metabolizers or those patients taking cimetidine or another CYP2C19 inhibitor. (see WARNINGS ) No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. Citalopram should be used with caution in patients with severe renal impairment. Treatment of Pregnant Women During the Third Trimester Neonates exposed to citalopram and other SSRIs or SNRIs, late in the third trimester, have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization, respiratory support, and tube feeding (see PRECAUTIONS ). When treating pregnant women with citalopram tablets during the third trimester, the physician should carefully consider the potential risks and benefits of treatment. Maintenance Treatment It is generally agreed that acute episodes of depression require several months or longer of sustained pharmacologic therapy. Systematic evaluation of citalopram in two studies has shown that its antidepressant efficacy is maintained for periods of up to 24 weeks following 6 or 8 weeks of initial treatment (32 weeks total). In one study, patients were assigned randomly to placebo or to the same dose of citalopram (20 mg to 60 mg/day) during maintenance treatment as they had received during the acute stabilization phase, while in the other study, patients were assigned randomly to continuation of citalopram 20 mg or 40 mg/day, or placebo, for maintenance treatment. In the latter study, the rates of relapse to depression were similar for the two dose groups (see Clinical Trials under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Based on these limited data, it is not known whether the dose of citalopram needed to maintain euthymia is identical to the dose needed to induce remission. If adverse reactions are bothersome, a decrease in dose to 20 mg/day can be considered. Discontinuation of Treatment with Citalopram Tablets Symptoms associated with discontinuation of citalopram and other SSRIs and SNRIs have been reported (see PRECAUTIONS ). Patients should be monitored for these symptoms when discontinuing treatment. A gradual reduction in the dose rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible. If intolerable symptoms occur following a decrease in the dose or upon discontinuation of treatment, then resuming the previously prescribed dose may be considered. Subsequently, the physician may continue decreasing the dose but at a more gradual rate. Switching a Patient To or From a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with citalopram. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping citalopram before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Use of Citalopram with Other MAOIs, Such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start citalopram in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). In some cases, a patient already receiving citalopram therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, citalopram should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. The patient should be monitored for symptoms of serotonin syndrome for 2 weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, whichever comes first. Therapy with citalopram may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue (see WARNINGS ). The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with citalopram is unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use (see WARNINGS ). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer once daily with or without food ( 2 ). • Initial dosage is 20 mg once daily; after one week may increase to maximum dosage of 40 mg once daily ( 2.1 ). • Patients greater than 60 years of age, patients with hepatic impairment, and CYP2C19 poor metabolizers: maximum recommended dosage is 20 mg once daily ( 2.2 ). • When discontinuing citalopram tablets, reduce dosage gradually ( 2.4 , 5.6 ). Dosages above 40 mg once daily are not recommended due to the risk of QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 2.2 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Citalopram Prior to initiating treatment with citalopram tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Conversely, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping citalopram tablets before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. 2.6 Discontinuing Treatment with Citalopram Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of citalopram tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Initial dosage is 20 mg once daily; after one week may increase to maximum dosage of 40 mg once daily ( 2.1 ) . Patients greater than 60 years of age, patients with hepatic impairment, and CYP2C19 poor metabolizers: maximum recommended dosage is 20 mg once daily ( 2.2 ) . When discontinuing citalopram tablets, reduce dosage gradually ( 2.4 , 5.6 ) . 2.2 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Citalopram Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with citalopram tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Specific Populations The maximum recommended dosage of citalopram tablets for patients who are greater than 60 years of age, patients with hepatic impairment, and for CYP2C19 poor metabolizers is 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.4 Dosage Modifications with Concomitant Use of CYP2C19 Inhibitors The maximum recommended dosage of citalopram tablets when used concomitantly with a CYP2C19 inhibitor is 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Drug Interactions (7) ] .
Warnings: WARNINGS WARNINGS-Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Patients with major depressive disorder (MDD), both adult and pediatric, may experience worsening of their depression and/or the emergence of suicidal ideation and behavior (suicidality) or unusual changes in behavior, whether or not they are taking antidepressant medications, and this risk may persist until significant remission occurs. Suicide is a known risk of depression and certain other psychiatric disorders, and these disorders themselves are the strongest predictors of suicide. There has been a long-standing concern, however, that antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment. Pooled analyses of short-term placebo-controlled trials of antidepressant drugs (SSRIs and others) showed that these drugs increase the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents, and young adults (ages 18 to 24) with major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. Short-term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24; there was a reduction with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older. The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in children and adolescents with MDD, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 24 short-term trials of 9 antidepressant drugs in over 4,400 patients. The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in adults with MDD or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 295 short-term trials (median duration of 2 months) of 11 antidepressant drugs in over 77,000 patients. There was considerable variation in risk of suicidality among drugs, but a tendency toward an increase in the younger patients for almost all drugs studied. There were differences in absolute risk of suicidality across the different indications, with the highest incidence in MDD. The risk differences (drug vs. placebo), however, were relatively stable within age strata and across indications. These risk differences (drug-placebo difference in the number of cases of suicidality per 1,000 patients treated) are provided in Table 1 . No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. There were suicides in the adult trials, but the number was not sufficient to reach any conclusion about drug effect on suicide. It is unknown whether the suicidality risk extends to longer-term use, i.e., beyond several months. However, there is substantial evidence from placebo-controlled maintenance trials in adults with depression that the use of antidepressants can delay the recurrence of depression. All patients being treated with antidepressants for any indication should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening, suicidality, and unusual changes in behavior, especially during the initial few months of a course of drug therapy, or at times of dose changes, either increases or decreases. The following symptoms, anxiety, agitation, panic attacks, insomnia, irritability, hostility, aggressiveness, impulsivity, akathisia (psychomotor restlessness), hypomania, and mania, have been reported in adult and pediatric patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder as well as for other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric. Although a causal link between the emergence of such symptoms and either the worsening of depression and / or the emergence of suicidal impulses has not been established, there is concern that such symptoms may represent precursors to emerging suicidality. Consideration should be given to changing the therapeutic regimen, including possibly discontinuing the medication, in patients whose depression is persistently worse, or who are experiencing emergent suicidality or symptoms that might be precursors to worsening depression or suicidality, especially if these symptoms are severe, abrupt in onset, or were not part of the patient's presenting symptoms. If the decision has been made to discontinue treatment, medication should be tapered, as rapidly as is feasible, but with recognition that abrupt discontinuation can be associated with certain symptoms (see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION - Discontinuation of Treatment with Citalopram Tablets , USP for a description of the risks of discontinuation of citalopram tablets). Families and caregivers of patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder or other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric, should be alerted about the need to monitor patients for the emergence of agitation, irritability, unusual changes in behavior, and the other symptoms described above, as well as the emergence of suicidality, and to report such symptoms immediately to health care providers. Such monitoring should include daily observation by families and caregivers. Prescriptions for citalopram tablets should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management, in order to reduce the risk of overdose. QT-Prolongation and Torsade de Pointes Citalopram causes dose-dependent QTc prolongation, an ECG abnormality that has been associated with Torsade de Pointes (TdP), ventricular tachycardia, and sudden death, all of which have been observed in postmarketing reports for citalopram. Individually corrected QTc (QTcNi) interval was evaluated in a randomized, placebo and active (moxifloxacin 400 mg) controlled cross-over, escalating multiple-dose study in 119 healthy subjects. The maximum mean (upper bound of the 95% one-sided confidence interval) difference from placebo were 8.5 (10.8) and 18.5 (21.0) msec for 20 mg and 60 mg citalopram, respectively. Based on the established exposure-response relationship, the predicted QTcNi change from placebo (upper bound of the 95% one-sided confidence interval) under the C max for the dose of 40 mg is 12.6 (14.3) msec. Because of the risk of QTc prolongation at higher citalopram doses, it is recommended that citalopram should not be given at doses above 40 mg/day. It is recommended that citalopram should not be used in patients with congenital long QT syndrome, bradycardia, hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia, recent acute myocardial infarction, or uncompensated heart failure. Citalopram should also not be used in patients who are taking other drugs that prolong the QTc interval. Such drugs include Class 1A (e.g., quinidine, procainamide) or Class III (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol) antiarrhythmic medications, antipsychotic medications (e.g., chlorpromazine, thioridazine), antibiotics (e.g., gatifloxacin, moxifloxacin), or any other class of medications known to prolong the QTc interval (e.g., pentamidine, levomethadyl acetate, methadone). The citalopram dose should be limited in certain populations. The maximum dose should be limited to 20 mg/day in patients who are CYP2C19 poor metabolizers or those patients who may be taking concomitant cimetidine or another CYP2C19 inhibitor, since higher citalopram exposures would be expected. The maximum dose should also be limited to 20 mg/day in patients with hepatic impairment and in patients who are greater than 60 years of age because of expected higher exposures. Electrolyte and/or ECG monitoring is recommended in certain circumstances. Patients being considered for citalopram treatment who are at risk for significant electrolyte disturbances should have baseline serum potassium and magnesium measurements with periodic monitoring. Hypokalemia (and/or hypomagnesemia) may increase the risk of QTc prolongation and arrhythmia, and should be corrected prior to initiation of treatment and periodically monitored. ECG monitoring is recommended in patients for whom citalopram use is not recommended (see above), but, nevertheless, considered essential. These include those patients with the cardiac conditions noted above, and those taking other drugs that may prolong the QTc interval. Citalopram should be discontinued in patients who are found to have persistent QTc measurements >500 ms. If patients taking citalopram experience symptoms that could indicate the occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias, e.g., dizziness, palpitations, or syncope, the prescriber should initiate further evaluation, including cardiac monitoring. Screening Patients for Bipolar Disorder A major depressive episode may be the initial presentation of bipolar disorder. It is generally believed (though not established in controlled trials) that treating such an episode with an antidepressant alone may increase the likelihood of precipitation of a mixed/manic episode in patients at risk for bipolar disorder. Whether any of the symptoms described above represent such a conversion is unknown. However, prior to initiating treatment with an antidepressant, patients with depressive symptoms should be adequately screened to determine if they are at risk for bipolar disorder; such screening should include a detailed psychiatric history, including a family history of suicide, bipolar disorder, and depression. It should be noted that citalopram is not approved for use in treating bipolar depression. Serotonin Syndrome The development of a potentially life-threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with SNRIs and SSRIs, including citalopram, alone but particularly with concomitant use of other serotonergic drugs (including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone, amphetamines, and St. John's Wort) and with drugs that impair metabolism of serotonin (in particular, MAOIs, both those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). Patients should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. The concomitant use of citalopram with MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders is contraindicated. Citalopram should also not be started in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. All reports with methylene blue that provided information on the route of administration involved intravenous administration in the dose range of 1 mg/kg to 8 mg/kg. No reports involved the administration of methylene blue by other routes (such as oral tablets or local tissue injection) or at lower doses. There may be circumstances when it is necessary to initiate treatment with an MAOI such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue in a patient taking citalopram. Citalopram should be discontinued before initiating treatment with the MAOI (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). If concomitant use of citalopram with other serotonergic drugs including, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan and St. John's Wort is clinically warranted, patients should be made aware of a potential increased risk for serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Treatment with citalopram and any concomitant serotonergic agents should be discontinued immediately if the above events occur and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated. Angle Closure Glaucoma The pupillary dilation that occurs following use of many antidepressant drugs including citalopram may trigger an angle closure attack in a patient with anatomically narrow angles who does not have a patent iridectomy. image
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Citalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients: taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue) because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Drug Interactions (7) ] . taking pimozide because of risk of QT prolongation [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . with known hypersensitivity to citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients in citalopram tablets. Reactions have included angioedema and anaphylaxis [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within 14 days of discontinuing a MAOI ( 4 ). Concomitant use of pimozide ( 4 ). Known hypersensitivity to citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients of citalopram ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Citalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients: • taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue) because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . • taking pimozide because of risk of QT prolongation [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . • with known hypersensitivity to citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients in citalopram tablets. Reactions have included angioedema and anaphylaxis [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . • Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within 14 days of discontinuing a MAOI ( 4 ) . • Concomitant use of pimozide ( 4 ) . • Known hypersensitivity to citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients of citalopram tablets ( 4 ) . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Citalopram is contraindicated in patients: taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue) because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . taking pimozide because of risk of QT prolongation [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . with known hypersensitivity to citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients in Citalopram. Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within 14 days of discontinuing a MAOI. ( 4 ). Concomitant use of pimozide. CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with citalopram or within 14 days of stopping treatment with citalopram is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of citalopram within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE and ADMINISTRATION ). Starting citalopram in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Concomitant use in patients taking pimozide is contraindicated (see PRECAUTIONS ). Citalopram is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients in citalopram. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Citalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients: • taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue) because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Drug Interactions (7) ]. • taking pimozide because of risk of QT prolongation [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. • Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within14 days of discontinuing a MAOI ( 4 ). • Concomitant use of pimozide ( 4 ). • Known hypersensitivity to citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients of citalopram tablets ( 4 ). Reactions have included angioedema and anaphylaxis [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within14 days of discontinuing a MAOI ( 4 ) . Concomitant use of pimozide ( 4 ) . Known hypersensitivity to citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients of citalopram tablets ( 4 ) .
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 5 presents clinically important drug interactions with citalopram. Table 5: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Citalopram Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact Concomitant use of SSRIs, including citalopram, and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Citalopram is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) , Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Pimozide Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram with pimozide increases plasma concentrations of pimozide, a drug with a narrow therapeutic index, and may increase the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to use of citalopram alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Intervention: Citalopram is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Drugs that Prolong the QTc Interval Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram with drugs that prolong QT can cause additional QT prolongation compared to the use of citalopram alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of citalopram with drugs that prolong the QT interval (citalopram is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide) [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. CYP2C19 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram with CYP2C19 inhibitors increases the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to the use of citalopram alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Intervention: The maximum recommended dosage of citalopram is 20 mg daily when used concomitantly with a CYP2C19 inhibitor [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram and other serotonergic drugs (including other SSRIs, SNRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan, and St. John's Wort) increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during citalopram initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of citalopram and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warning and Precautions (5.3) ]. Drugs That Interfere With Hemostasis (antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants) Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram and an antiplatelet or anticoagulant may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Intervention: Inform patients of the increased risk of bleeding associated with the concomitant use of citalopram and antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio [see Warning and Precautions (5.4) ]. CYP2C19 Inhibitors : Citalopram 20 mg daily is the maximum recommended dosage for patients taking concomitant CYP2C19 inhibitors ( 5.2 , 7 ) . Intervention Citalopram is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ), Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Pimozide Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram with pimozide increases plasma concentrations of pimozide, a drug with a narrow therapeutic index, and may increase the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to use of citalopram alone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )]. Intervention: Citalopram is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Drugs that Prolong the QTc Interval Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram with drugs that prolong QT can cause additional QT prolongation compared to the use of citalopram alone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )]. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of citalopram with drugs that prolong the QT interval (citalopram is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide) [see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. CYP2C19 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram with CYP2C19 inhibitors increases the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to the use of citalopram alone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )]. Intervention: The maximum recommended dosage of citalopram is 20 mg daily when used concomitantly with a CYP2C19 inhibitor [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of citalopram and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warning and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio [see Warning and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. CYP2C19 Inhibitors : Citalopram tablets 20 mg daily is the maximum recommended dosage for patients taking concomitant CYP2C19 inhibitors ( 5.2 , 7.1) . Intervention Citalopram is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ), Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Intervention: Citalopram is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide [see Contraindications( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of Citalopram with drugs that prolong the QT interval (Citalopram is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide) [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. CYP2C19 Inhibitors : Citalopram 20 mg daily is the maximum recommended dosage for patients taking concomitant CYP2C19 inhibitors ( 5.2 , 7.1 ). Drug Interactions Serotonergic Drugs See CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . Triptans There have been rare postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome with use of an SSRI and a triptan. If concomitant treatment of citalopram with a triptan is clinically warranted, careful observation of the patient is advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases (see WARNINGS - Serotonin Syndrome ) . CNS Drugs Given the primary CNS effects of citalopram, caution should be used when it is taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs. Alcohol Although citalopram did not potentiate the cognitive and motor effects of alcohol in a clinical trial, as with other psychotropic medications, the use of alcohol by depressed patients taking citalopram is not recommended. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs ) - See CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . Drugs That Interfere With Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin, etc.) Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies of the case-control and cohort design that have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding have also shown that concurrent use of an NSAID or aspirin may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Altered anticoagulant effects, including increased bleeding, have been reported when SSRIs and SNRIs are coadministered with warfarin. Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when citalopram is initiated or discontinued. Cimetidine In subjects who had received 21 days of 40 mg/day citalopram, combined administration of 400 mg twice a day cimetidine for 8 days resulted in an increase in citalopram AUC and C max of 43% and 39%, respectively. Citalopram 20 mg/day is the maximum recommended dose for patients taking concomitant cimetidine because of the risk of QT prolongation (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Digoxin In subjects who had received 21 days of 40 mg/day citalopram, combined administration of citalopram and digoxin (single dose of 1 mg) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either citalopram or digoxin. Lithium Coadministration of citalopram (40 mg/day for 10 days) and lithium (30 mmol/day for 5 days) had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of citalopram or lithium. Nevertheless, plasma lithium levels should be monitored with appropriate adjustment to the lithium dose in accordance with standard clinical practice. Because lithium may enhance the serotonergic effects of citalopram, caution should be exercised when citalopram and lithium are coadministered. Pimozide In a controlled study, a single dose of pimozide 2 mg co-administered with citalopram 40 mg given once daily for 11 days was associated with a mean increase in QTc values of approximately 10 msec compared to pimozide given alone. Citalopram did not alter the mean AUC or C max of pimozide. The mechanism of this pharmacodynamic interaction is not known. Theophylline Combined administration of citalopram (40 mg/day for 21 days) and the CYP1A2 substrate theophylline (single dose of 300 mg) did not affect the pharmacokinetics of theophylline. The effect of theophylline on the pharmacokinetics of citalopram was not evaluated . Sumatriptan There have been rare postmarketing reports describing patients with weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination following the use of a SSRI and sumatriptan. If concomitant treatment with sumatriptan and an SSRI (e.g., fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, paroxetine, sertraline, citalopram) is clinically warranted, appropriate observation of the patient is advised. Warfarin Administration of 40 mg/day citalopram for 21 days did not affect the pharmacokinetics of warfarin, a CYP3A4 substrate. Prothrombin time was increased by 5%, the clinical significance of which is unknown. Carbamazepine Combined administration of citalopram (40 mg/day for 14 days) and carbamazepine (titrated to 400 mg/day for 35 days) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of carbamazepine, a CYP3A4 substrate. Although trough citalopram plasma levels were unaffected, given the enzyme-inducing properties of carbamazepine, the possibility that carbamazepine might increase the clearance of citalopram should be considered if the two drugs are coadministered. Triazolam Combined administration of citalopram (titrated to 40 mg/day for 28 days) and the CYP3A4 substrate triazolam (single dose of 0.25 mg) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either citalopram or triazolam. Ketoconazole Combined administration of citalopram (40 mg) and ketoconazole (200 mg) decreased the C max and AUC of ketoconazole by 21% and 10%, respectively, and did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of citalopram. CYP2C19 Inhibitors Citalopram 20 mg/day is the maximum recommended dose for patients taking concomitant CYP2C19 inhibitors because of the risk of QT prolongation (see WARNINGS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , AND CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) . Metoprolol Administration of 40 mg/day citalopram for 22 days resulted in a two-fold increase in the plasma levels of the beta-adrenergic blocker metoprolol. Increased metoprolol plasma levels have been associated with decreased cardioselectivity. Coadministration of citalopram and metoprolol had no clinically significant effects on blood pressure or heart rate. Imipramine and Other Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) In vitro studies suggest that citalopram is a relatively weak inhibitor of CYP2D6. Coadministration of citalopram (40 mg/day for 10 days) with the TCA imipramine (single dose of 100 mg), a substrate for CYP2D6, did not significantly affect the plasma concentrations of imipramine or citalopram. However, the concentration of the imipramine metabolite desipramine was increased by approximately 50%. The clinical significance of the desipramine change is unknown. Nevertheless, caution is indicated in the coadministration of TCAs with citalopram . Electroconvulsive Therapy (ECT) There are no clinical studies of the combined use of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) and citalopram. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Citalopram was administered in the diet to NMRI/BOM strain mice and COBS WI strain rats for 18 and 24 months, respectively. There was no evidence for carcinogenicity of citalopram in mice receiving up to 240 mg/kg/day, which is equivalent to 20 times the maximum recommended human daily dose (MRHD) of 60 mg on a surface area (mg/m 2 ) basis. There was an increased incidence of small intestine carcinoma in rats receiving 8 or 24 mg/kg/day, doses which are approximately 1.3 and 4 times the MRHD, respectively, on a mg/m 2 basis. A no-effect dose for this finding was not established. The relevance of these findings to humans is unknown. Mutagenesis Citalopram was mutagenic in the in vitro bacterial reverse mutation assay (Ames test) in 2 of 5 bacterial strains (Salmonella TA98 and TA1537) in the absence of metabolic activation. It was clastogenic in the in vitro Chinese hamster lung cell assay for chromosomal aberrations in the presence and absence of metabolic activation. Citalopram was not mutagenic in the in vitro mammalian forward gene mutation assay (HPRT) in mouse lymphoma cells or in a coupled in vitro/in vivo unscheduled DNA synthesis (UDS) assay in rat liver. It was not clastogenic in the in vitro chromosomal aberration assay in human lymphocytes or in two in vivo mouse micronucleus assays. Impairment of Fertility When citalopram was administered orally to 16 male and 24 female rats prior to and throughout mating and gestation at doses of 32 mg, 48 mg, or 72 mg/kg/day, mating was decreased at all doses, and fertility was decreased at doses ≥32 mg/kg/day, approximately 5 times the MRHD of 60 mg/day on a body surface area (mg/m 2 ) basis. Gestation duration was increased at 48 mg/kg/day, approximately 8 times the MRHD . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 5 presents clinically important drug interactions with citalopram tablets. Table 5: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Citalopram Tablets Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact Concomitant use of SSRIs, including citalopram tablets, and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Citalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) , Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Pimozide Clinical Impact Concomitant use of citalopram tablets with pimozide increases plasma concentrations of pimozide, a drug with a narrow therapeutic index, and may increase the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to use of citalopram tablets alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Intervention Citalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients taking pimozide [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Drugs that Prolong the QTc Interval Clinical Impact Concomitant use of citalopram tablets with drugs that prolong QT can cause additional QT prolongation compared to the use of citalopram tablets alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Intervention Avoid concomitant use of citalopram tablets with drugs that prolong the QT interval (citalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients taking pimozide) [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. CYP2C19 Inhibitors Clinical Impact Concomitant use of citalopram tablets A with CYP2C19 inhibitors increases the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to the use of citalopram tablets alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Intervention The maximum recommended dosage of citalopram tablets is 20 mg daily when used concomitantly with a CYP2C19 inhibitor [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact Concomitant use of citalopram tablets and other serotonergic drugs (including other SSRIs, SNRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan, and St. Intervention Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during citalopram tablets initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of citalopram tablets and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warning and Precautions (5.3) ]. Drugs That Interfere With Hemostasis (antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants) Clinical Impact Concomitant use of citalopram tablets and an antiplatelet or anticoagulant may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Intervention Inform patients of the increased risk of bleeding associated with the concomitant use of citalopram tablets and antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants. CYP2C19 Inhibitors : Citalopram tablets 20 mg daily is the maximum recommended dosage for patients taking concomitant CYP2C19 inhibitors ( 5.2 , 7 ). Table 5: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Citalopram Tablets Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of SSRIs, including citalopram tablets, and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Citalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) , Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Pimozide Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram tablets with pimozide increases plasma concentrations of pimozide, a drug with a narrow therapeutic index, and may increase the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to use of citalopram tablets alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Intervention: Citalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients taking pimozide [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Drugs that Prolong the QTc Interval Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram tablets with drugs that prolong QT can cause additional QT prolongation compared to the use of citalopram tablets alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of citalopram tablets with drugs that prolong the QT interval (citalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients taking pimozide) [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . CYP2C19 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram tablets with CYP2C19 inhibitors increases the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to the use of citalopram tablets alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Intervention: The maximum recommended dosage of citalopram tablets is 20 mg daily when used concomitantly with a CYP2C19 inhibitor [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram tablets and other serotonergic drugs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during citalopram tablets initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of citalopram tablets and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Drugs That Interfere With Hemostasis (antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants) Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram tablets and an antiplatelet or anticoagulant may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Intervention: Inform patients of the increased risk of bleeding associated with the concomitant use of citalopram tablets and antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . CYP2C19 Inhibitors: Citalopram tablets 20 mg daily is the maximum recommended dosage for patients taking concomitant CYP2C19 inhibitors ( 5.2 , 7 ) .

=== GEMFIBROZIL ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Gemfibrozil Tablets are indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet for: 1. Treatment of adult patients with very high elevations of serum triglyceride levels (Types IV and V hyperlipidemia) who present a risk of pancreatitis and who do not respond adequately to a determined dietary effort to control them. Patients who present such risk typically have serum triglycerides over 2,000 mg/dL and have elevations of VLDL-cholesterol as well as fasting chylomicrons (Type V hyperlipidemia). Subjects who consistently have total serum or plasma triglycerides below 1,000 mg/dL are unlikely to present a risk of pancreatitis. Gemfibrozil therapy may be considered for those subjects with triglyceride elevations between 1,000 and 2,000 mg/dL who have a history of pancreatitis or of recurrent abdominal pain typical of pancreatitis. It is recognized that some Type IV patients with triglycerides under 1,000 mg/dL may, through dietary or alcoholic indiscretion, convert to a Type V pattern with massive triglyceride elevations accompanying fasting chylomicronemia, but the influence of gemfibrozil therapy on the risk of pancreatitis in such situations has not been adequately studied. Drug therapy is not indicated for patients with Type I hyperlipoproteinemia, who have elevations of chylomicrons and plasma triglycerides, but who have normal levels of very low density lipoprotein (VLDL). Inspection of plasma refrigerated for 14 hours is helpful in distinguishing Types I, IV, and V hyperlipoproteinemia. 2. Reducing the risk of developing coronary heart disease only in Type IIb patients without history of or symptoms of existing coronary heart disease who have had an inadequate response to weight loss, dietary therapy, exercise, and other pharmacologic agents (such as bile acid sequestrants and nicotinic acid, known to reduce LDL- and raise HDL-cholesterol) and who have the following triad of lipid abnormalities: low HDL-cholesterol levels in addition to elevated LDL-cholesterol and elevated triglycerides (see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). The National Cholesterol Education Program has defined a serum HDL-cholesterol value that is consistently below 35 mg/dL as constituting an independent risk factor for coronary heart disease. Patients with significantly elevated triglycerides should be closely observed when treated with gemfibrozil. In some patients with high triglyceride levels, treatment with gemfibrozil is associated with a significant increase in LDL-cholesterol. BECAUSE OF POTENTIAL TOXICITY SUCH AS MALIGNANCY, GALLBLADDER DISEASE, ABDOMINAL PAIN LEADING TO APPENDECTOMY AND OTHER ABDOMINAL SURGERIES, AN INCREASED INCIDENCE IN NON-CORONARY MORTALITY, AND THE 44% RELATIVE INCREASE DURING THE TRIAL PERIOD IN AGE-ADJUSTED ALL-CAUSE MORTALITY SEEN WITH THE CHEMICALLY AND PHARMACOLOGICALLY RELATED DRUG, CLOFIBRATE, THE POTENTIAL BENEFIT OF GEMFIBROZIL IN TREATING TYPE IIA PATIENTS WITH ELEVATIONS OF LDL-CHOLESTEROL ONLY IS NOT LIKELY TO OUTWEIGH THE RISKS. GEMFIBROZIL IS ALSO NOT INDICATED FOR THE TREATMENT OF PATIENTS WITH LOW HDL-CHOLESTEROL AS THEIR ONLY LIPID ABNORMALITY. In a subgroup analysis of patients in the Helsinki Heart Study with above-median HDL-cholesterol values at baseline (greater than 46.4 mg/dL), the incidence of serious coronary events was similar for gemfibrozil and placebo subgroups (see Table I). The initial treatment for dyslipidemia is dietary therapy specific for the type of lipoprotein abnormality. Excess body weight and excess alcohol intake may be important factors in hypertriglyceridemia and should be managed prior to any drug therapy. Physical exercise can be an important ancillary measure, and has been associated with rises in HDL-cholesterol. Diseases contributory to hyperlipidemia such as hypothyroidism or diabetes mellitus should be looked for and adequately treated. Estrogen therapy is sometimes associated with massive rises in plasma triglycerides, especially in subjects with familial hypertriglyceridemia. In such cases, discontinuation of estrogen therapy may obviate the need for specific drug therapy of hypertriglyceridemia. The use of drugs should be considered only when reasonable attempts have been made to obtain satisfactory results with nondrug methods. If the decision is made to use drugs, the patient should be instructed that this does not reduce the importance of adhering to diet. INDICATIONS & USAGE Gemfibrozil tablets, USP are indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet for: 1. Patients who present such risk typically have serum triglycerides over 2000 mg/dL and have elevations of VLDL-cholesterol as well as fasting chylomicrons (Type V hyperlipidemia). Subjects who consistently have total serum or plasma triglycerides below 1000 mg/dL are unlikely to present a risk of pancreatitis. Gemfibrozil therapy may be considered for those subjects with triglyceride elevations between 1000 and 2000 mg/dL who have a history of pancreatitis or of recurrent abdominal pain typical of pancreatitis. It is recognized that some Type IV patients with triglycerides under 1000 mg/dL may, through dietary or alcoholic indiscretion, convert to a Type V pattern with massive triglyceride elevations accompanying fasting chylomicronemia, but the influence of Gemfibrozil therapy on the risk of pancreatitis in such situations has not been adequately studied. Reducing the risk of developing coronary heart disease only in Type IIb patients without history of or symptoms of existing coronary heart disease who have had an inadequate response to weight loss, dietary therapy, exercise, and other pharmacologic agents (such as bile acid sequestrants and nicotinic acid, known to reduce LDL-and raise HDL-cholesterol) and who have the following triad of lipid abnormalities: low HDL-cholesterol levels in addition to elevated LDL-cholesterol and elevated triglycerides (see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). GEMFIBROZIL IS ALSO NOT INDICATED FOR THE TREATMENT OF PATIENTS WITH LOW HDL-CHOLESTEROLAS THEIR ONLY LIPID ABNORMALITY. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Gemfibrozil tablets, USP are indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet for: Treatment of adult patients with very high elevations of serum triglyceride levels (Types IV and V hyperlipidemia) who present a risk of pancreatitis and who do not respond adequately to a determined dietary effort to control them. Gemfibrozil tablets, USP therapy may be considered for those subjects with triglyceride elevations between 1000 and 2000 mg/dL who have a history of pancreatitis or of recurrent abdominal pain typical of pancreatitis. It is recognized that some Type IV patients with triglycerides under 1000 mg/dL may, through dietary or alcoholic indiscretion, convert to a Type V pattern with massive triglyceride elevations accompanying fasting chylomicronemia, but the influence of gemfibrozil tablets, USP therapy on the risk of pancreatitis in such situations has not been adequately studied. GEMFIBROZIL TABLETS, USP ARE ALSO NOT INDICATED FOR THE TREATMENT OF PATIENTS WITH LOW HDL-CHOLESTEROL AS THEIR ONLY LIPID ABNORMALITY. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Gemfibrozil tablets, USP are indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet for: 1. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Gemfibrozil Tablets are indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet for: Treatment of adult patients with very high elevations of serum triglyceride levels (Types IV and V hyperlipidemia) who present a risk of pancreatitis and who do not respond adequately to a determined dietary effort to control them. Reducing the risk of developing coronary heart disease only in Type IIb patients without history of or symptoms of existing coronary heart disease who have had an inadequate response to weight loss, dietary therapy, exercise, and other pharmacologic agents (such as bile acid sequestrants and nicotinic acid, known to reduce LDL- and raise HDL-cholesterol) and who have the following triad of lipid abnormalities: low HDL-cholesterol levels in addition to elevated LDL-cholesterol and elevated triglycerides (see WARNINGS, PRECAUTIONS , and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Gemfibrozil tablets therapy may be considered for those subjects with triglyceride elevations between 1000 and 2000 mg/dL who have a history of pancreatitis or of recurrent abdominal pain typical of pancreatitis. It is recognized that some Type IV patients with triglycerides under 1000 mg/dL may, through dietary or alcoholic indiscretion, convert to a Type V pattern with massive triglyceride elevations accompanying fasting chylomicronemia, but the influence of gemfibrozil tablets therapy on the risk of pancreatitis in such situations has not been adequately studied. GEMFIBROZIL TABLETS ARE ALSO NOT INDICATED FOR THE TREATMENT OF PATIENTS WITH LOW HDL-CHOLESTEROL AS THEIR ONLY LIPID ABNORMALITY.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose for adults is 1,200 mg administered in two divided doses 30 minutes before the morning and evening meals (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose for adults is 1200 mg administered in two divided doses 30 minutes before the morning and evening meals (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose for adults is 1200 mg administered in two divided doses 30 minutes before the morning and evening meals (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). OVERDOSAGE There have been reported cases of overdosage with gemfibrozil. In one case, a 7-year-old child recovered after ingesting up to 9 grams of gemfibrozil. Symptoms reported with overdosage were abdominal cramps, abnormal liver function tests, diarrhea, increased CPK, joint and muscle pain, nausea and vomiting. Symptomatic supportive measures should be taken, should an overdose occur.
Warnings: WARNINGS 1. Because of chemical, pharmacological, and clinical similarities between gemfibrozil and clofibrate, the adverse findings with clofibrate in two large clinical studies may also apply to gemfibrozil. In the first of those studies, the Coronary Drug Project, 1,000 subjects with previous myocardial infarction were treated for five years with clofibrate. There was no difference in mortality between the clofibrate-treated subjects and 3,000 placebo-treated subjects, but twice as many clofibrate-treated subjects developed cholelithiasis and cholecystitis requiring surgery. In the other study, conducted by the World Health Organization (WHO), 5,000 subjects without known coronary heart disease were treated with clofibrate for five years and followed one year beyond. There was a statistically significant (44%) higher age-adjusted total mortality in the clofibrate-treated group than in a comparable placebo-treated control group during the trial period. The excess mortality was due to a 33% increase in non-cardiovascular causes, including malignancy, post-cholecystectomy complications, and pancreatitis. The higher risk of clofibrate-treated subjects for gallbladder disease was confirmed. Because of the more limited size of the Helsinki Heart Study, the observed difference in mortality from any cause between the gemfibrozil and placebo groups is not statistically significantly different from the 29% excess mortality reported in the clofibrate group in the separate WHO study at the nine year follow-up (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Noncoronary heart disease related mortality showed an excess in the group originally randomized to gemfibrozil primarily due to cancer deaths observed during the open-label extension. During the five year primary prevention component of the Helsinki Heart Study, mortality from any cause was 44 (2.2%) in the gemfibrozil group and 43 (2.1%) in the placebo group; including the 3.5 year follow-up period since the trial was completed, cumulative mortality from any cause was 101 (4.9%) in the gemfibrozil group and 83 (4.1%) in the group originally randomized to placebo (hazard ratio 1:20 in favor of placebo). Because of the more limited size of the Helsinki Heart Study, the observed difference in mortality from any cause between the gemfibrozil and placebo groups at Year-5 or at Year-8.5 is not statistically significantly different from the 29% excess mortality reported in the clofibrate group in the separate WHO study at the nine year follow-up. Noncoronary heart disease related mortality showed an excess in the group originally randomized to gemfibrozil at the 8.5 year follow-up (65 gemfibrozil versus 45 placebo noncoronary deaths). The incidence of cancer (excluding basal cell carcinoma) discovered during the trial and in the 3.5 years after the trial was completed was 51 (2.5%) in both originally randomized groups. In addition, there were 16 basal cell carcinomas in the group originally randomized to gemfibrozil and 9 in the group randomized to placebo (p=0.22). There were 30 (1.5%) deaths attributed to cancer in the group originally randomized to gemfibrozil and 18 (0.9%) in the group originally randomized to placebo (p=0.11). Adverse outcomes, including coronary events, were higher in gemfibrozil patients in a corresponding study in men with a history of known or suspected coronary heart disease in the secondary prevention component of the Helsinki Heart Study (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). A comparative carcinogenicity study was also done in rats comparing three drugs in this class: fenofibrate (10 and 60 mg/kg; 0.3 and 1.6 times the human dose, respectively), clofibrate (400 mg/kg; 1.6 times the human dose), and gemfibrozil (250 mg/kg; 1.7 times the human dose). Pancreatic acinar adenomas were increased in males and females on fenofibrate; hepatocellular carcinoma and pancreatic acinar adenomas were increased in males and hepatic neoplastic nodules in females treated with clofibrate; hepatic neoplastic nodules were increased in males and females treated with clofibrate; hepatic neoplastic nodules were increased in males and females treated with gemfibrozil while testicular interstitial cell (Leydig cell) tumors were increased in males on all three drugs. 2. A gallstone prevalence substudy of 450 Helsinki Heart Study participants showed a trend toward a greater prevalence of gallstones during the study within the gemfibrozil treatment group (7.5% versus 4.9% for the placebo group, a 55% excess for the gemfibrozil group). A trend toward a greater incidence of gallbladder surgery was observed for the gemfibrozil group (17 versus 11 subjects, a 54% excess). This result did not differ statistically from the increased incidence of cholecystectomy observed in the WHO study in the group treated with clofibrate. Both clofibrate and gemfibrozil may increase cholesterol excretion into the bile, leading to cholelithiasis. If cholelithiasis is suspected, gallbladder studies are indicated. Gemfibrozil therapy should be discontinued if gallstones are found. Cases of cholelithiasis have been reported with gemfibrozil therapy. 3. Since a reduction of mortality from coronary heart disease has not been demonstrated and because liver and interstitial cell testicular tumors were increased in rats, gemfibrozil should be administered only to those patients described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section. If a significant serum lipid response is not obtained, gemfibrozil should be discontinued. 4. Concomitant Anticoagulants-Caution should be exercised when warfarin is given in conjunction with gemfibrozil. The dosage of warfarin should be reduced to maintain the prothrombin time at the desired level to prevent bleeding complications. Frequent prothrombin determinations are advisable until it has been definitely determined that the prothrombin level has stabilized. 5. The concomitant administration of gemfibrozil with simvastatin is contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS ). Concomitant therapy with gemfibrozil and an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor is associated with an increased risk of skeletal muscle toxicity manifested as rhabdomyolysis, markedly elevated creatine kinase (CPK) levels, and myoglobinuria, leading in a high proportion of cases to acute renal failure and death. IN PATIENTS WHO HAVE HAD AN UNSATISFACTORY LIPID RESPONSE TO EITHER DRUG ALONE, THE BENEFIT OF COMBINED THERAPY WITH GEMFIBROZIL and an HMG-CoA REDUCTASE INHIBITOR DOES NOT OUTWEIGH THE RISKS OF SEVERE MYOPATHY, RHABDOMYOLYSIS, AND ACUTE RENAL FAILURE (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). The use of fibrates alone, including gemfibrozil, may occasionally be associated with myositis. Patients receiving gemfibrozil and complaining of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness should have prompt medical evaluation for myositis, including serum creatine-kinase level determination. If myositis is suspected or diagnosed, gemfibrozil therapy should be withdrawn. 6. Cataracts-Subcapsular bilateral cataracts occurred in 10%, and unilateral in 6.3%, of male rats treated with gemfibrozil at 10 times the human dose. 7. CYP2C8 substrates -Gemfibrozil, a strong inhibitor of CYP2C8, may increase exposure of CYP2C8 substrates when administered concomitantly (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). 8. OATP1B1 substrates – Gemfibrozil is an inhibitor of organic anion-transporter polyprotein (OATP) 1B1 and may increase exposure of drugs that are substrates of OATP1B1 (e.g., atrasentan, atorvastatin, bosentan, ezetimibe, fluvastatin, glyburide, SN-38 [active metabolite of irinotecan], rosuvastatin, pitavastatin, pravastatin, rifampin, valsartan, olmesartan). Therefore, dosing reductions of drugs that are substrates of OATP1B1 may be required when gemfibrozil is used concomitantly (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Combination therapy of gemfibrozil with simvastatin or with repaglinide, which are OATP1B1 substrates, is contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). In the first of those studies, the Coronary Drug Project, 1000 subjects with previous myocardial infarction were treated for five years with clofibrate. There was no difference in mortality between the clofibrate-treated subjects and 3000 placebo-treated subjects, but twice as many clofibrate-treated subjects developed cholelithiasis and cholecystitis requiring surgery. In the other study, conducted by the World Health Organization (WHO), 5000 subjects without known coronary heart disease were treated with clofibrate for five years and followed one year beyond. The excess mortality was due to a 33% increase in non-cardiovascular causes, including malignancy, post­cholecystectomy complications, and pancreatitis. In addition, there were 16 basal cell carcinomas in the group originally randomized to gemfibrozil and 9 in the group originally randomized to placebo (p=0.22). 4.Concomitant Anticoagulants – Caution should be exercised when warfarin is given in conjunction with gemfibrozil. The concomitant administration of gemfibrozil with simvastatin is contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS ).Concomitant therapy with gemfibrozil and an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor is associated with an increased risk of skeletal muscle toxicity manifested as rhabdomyolysis, markedly elevated creatine kinase (CPK) levels, and myoglobinuria, leading in a high proportion of cases to acute renal failure and death. Patients receiving gemfibrozil and complaining of muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness should have prompt medical evaluation for myositis, including serum creatine–kinase level determination. Cataracts – Subcapsular bilateral cataracts occurred in 10%, and unilateral in 6.3%, of male rats treated with gemfibrozil at 10 times the human dose. CYP2C8 substrates - Gemfibrozil, a strong inhibitor of CYP2C8, may increase exposure of CYP2C8 substrates when administered concomitantly (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Concomitant Anticoagulants – Caution should be exercised when warfarin is given in conjunction with gemfibrozil. IN PATIENTS WHO HAVE HAD AN UNSATISFACTORY LIPID RESPONSE TO EITHER DRUG ALONE, THE BENEFIT OF COMBINED THERAPY WITH GEMFIBROZIL AND an HMG-CoA REDUCTASE INHIBITOR DOES NOT OUTWEIGH THE RISKS OF SEVERE MYOPATHY, RHABDOMYOLYSIS, AND ACUTE RENAL FAILURE (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). CYP2C8 substrates – Gemfibrozil, a strong inhibitor of CYP2C8, may increase exposure of CYP2C8 substrates when administered concomitantly (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Because of the more limited size of the Helsinki Heart Study, the observed difference in mortality from any cause between the gemfibrozil and placebo groups is not statistically significantly different from the 29% excess mortality reported in the clofibrate group in the separate WHO study at the nine year follow-up (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). During the five year primary prevention component of the During the five year primary prevention component of the Helsinki Heart Study, mortality from any cause was 44 (2.2%) in the gemfibrozil group and 43 (2.1%) in the placebo group; including the 3.5 year follow-up period since the trial was completed, cumulative mortality from any cause was 101 (4.9%) in the gemfibrozil group and 83 (4.1%) in the group originally randomized to placebo (hazard ratio 1:20 in favor of placebo). CYP2C8 substrates – Gemfibrozil, a strong inhibitor of CYP2C8, may increase exposure of CYP2C8 substrates when administered concomitantly (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Therefore, dosing reductions of drugs that are substrates of OATP1B1 may be required when gemfibrozil is used concomitantly (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). CYP2C8 substrates - Gemfibrozil, a strong inhibitor of CYP2C8, may increase exposure of CYP2C8 substrates when administered concomitantly (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). OATP1B1 substrates – Gemfibrozil is an inhibitor of organic anion-transporter polyprotein (OATP)1B1 and may increase exposure of drugs that are substrates of OATP1B1 (e.g., atrasentan, atorvastatin, bosentan, ezetimibe, fluvastatin, glyburide, SN-38 [active metabolite of irinotecan], rosuvastatin, pitavastatin, pravastatin, rifampin, valsartan, olmesartan). IN PATIENTS WHO HAVE HAD AN UNSATISFACTORY LIPID RESPONSE TO EITHER DRUG ALONE, THE BENEFIT OF COMBINED THERAPY WITH GEMFIBROZIL and an HMG-CoA REDUCTASE INHIBITOR DOES NOT OUTWEIGH THE RISKS OF SEVERE MYOPATHY, RHABDOMYOLYSIS, AND ACUTE RENAL FAILURE (see PRECAUTIONS , Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. ). CYP2C8 substrates -Gemfibrozil, a strong inhibitor of CYP2C8, may increase exposure of CYP2C8 substrates when administered concomitantly (see PRECAUTIONS , Error! Therefore, dosing reductions of drugs that are substrates of OATP1B1 may be required when gemfibrozil is used concomitantly (see PRECAUTIONS , Error! WARNINGS 1.Because of chemical, pharmacological, and clinical similarities between gemfibrozil and clofibrate, the adverse findings with clofibrate in two large clinical studies may also apply to gemfibrozil. CYP2C8 substrates -Gemfibrozil, a strong inhibitor of CYP2C8, may increase exposure of CYP2C8 substrates when administered concomitantly (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Combination therapy of gemfibrozil with simvastatin or with repaglinide, which are OATP1B1 substrates, is contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATION ). If a significant serum lipid response is not obtained, gemfibrozil tablets should be discontinued. Concomitant therapy with gemfibrozil tablets and an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor is associated with an increased risk of skeletal muscle toxicity manifested as rhabdomyolysis, markedly elevated creatine kinase (CPK) levels, and myoglobinuria, leading in a high proportion of cases to acute renal failure and death. If myositis is suspected or diagnosed, gemfibrozil tablets therapy should be withdrawn. Cataracts – Subcapsular bilateral cataracts occurred in 10%, and unilateral in 6.3%, of male rats treated with gemfibrozil tablets at 10 times the human dose. The dosage of the warfarin should be reduced to maintain the prothrombin time at the desired level to prevent bleeding complications. The concomitant administration of gemfibrozil with simvastatin is contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS). OATP1B1 substrates – Gemfibrozil is an inhibitor of organic anion-transporter polyprotein (OATP) 1B1 and may increase exposure of drugs that are substrates of OATP1B1 (e.g., atrasentan, atorvastatin, bosentan, ezetimibe, fluvastatin, glyburide, SN38 [active metabolite of irinotecan], rosuvastatin, pitavastatin, pravastatin, rifampin, valsartan, olmesartan). Combination therapy of gemfibrozil with simvastatin or with repaglinide, which are OATP1B1 substrates, is contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATIONS).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Hepatic or severe renal dysfunction, including primary biliary cirrhosis. Preexisting gallbladder disease (see WARNINGS ). Hypersensitivity to gemfibrozil. Combination therapy of gemfibrozil with simvastatin (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ). Combination therapy of gemfibrozil with repaglinide (see PRECAUTIONS ). Combination therapy of gemfibrozil with dasabuvir (see PRECAUTIONS ). Combination therapy of gemfibrozil with selexipag (see PRECAUTIONS ). CONTRAINDICATIONS 1.Hepatic or severe renal dysfunction, including primary biliary cirrhosis. 2.Preexisting gallbladder disease (see WARNINGS ). 3.Hypersensitivity to gemfibrozil. 4.Combination therapy of gemfibrozil with simvastatin (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ). 5.Combination therapy of gemfibrozil with repaglinide (see PRECAUTIONS ). 6.Combination therapy of gemfibrozil with dasabuvir (see PRECAUTIONS ). 7. CONTRAINDICATIONS 1. Hepatic or severe renal dysfunction, including primary biliary cirrhosis. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6.
Interactions (label): 3. Drug Interactions ( A) HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors: The concomitant administration of gemfibrozil with simvastatin is contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). Avoid concomitant use of gemfibrozil with rosuvastatin. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, initiate rosuvastatin at 5 mg once daily. The dose of rosuvastatin should not exceed 10 mg once daily. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with combined gemfibrozil and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor therapy. Myopathy or rhabdomyolysis with or without acute renal failure have been reported as early as three weeks after initiation of combined therapy or after several months (see WARNINGS ). There is no assurance that periodic monitoring of creatine kinase will prevent the occurrence of severe myopathy and kidney damage. (B) Anticoagulants: CAUTION SHOULD BE EXERCISED WHEN WARFARIN IS GIVEN IN CONJUNCTION WITH GEMFIBROZIL. THE DOSAGE OF WARFARIN SHOULD BE REDUCED TO MAINTAIN THE PROTHROMBIN TIME AT THE DESIRED LEVEL TO PREVENT BLEEDING COMPLICATIONS. FREQUENT PROTHROMBIN DETERMINATIONS ARE ADVISABLE UNTIL IT HAS BEEN DEFINITELY DETERMINED THAT THE PROTHROMBIN LEVEL HAS STABILIZED. (C) CYP2C8 Substrates: Gemfibrozil is a strong inhibitor of CYP2C8 and may increase exposure of drugs mainly metabolized by CYP2C8 (e.g., dabrafenib, enzalutamide, loperamide, montelukast, paclitaxel, pioglitazone, rosiglitazone). Therefore, dosing reduction of drugs that are mainly metabolized by CYP2C8 enzyme may be required when gemfibrozil is used concomitantly (see WARNINGS ). Repaglinide: In healthy volunteers, co-administration with gemfibrozil (600 mg twice daily for 3 days) resulted in an 8.1-fold (range 5.5-to 15.0­fold) higher repaglinide AUC and a 28.6-fold (range 18.5- to 80.1- fold) higher repaglinide plasma concentration 7 hours after the dose. In the same study, gemfibrozil (600 mg twice daily for 3 days) + itraconazole (200 mg in the morning and 100 mg in the evening at Day 1, then 100 mg twice daily at Day 2–3) resulted in a 19.4-(range 12.9- to 24.7-fold) higher repaglinide AUC and a 70.4­ fold (range 42.9-to 119.2-fold) higher repaglinide plasma concentration 7 hours after the dose. In addition, gemfibrozil alone or gemfibrozil + itraconazole prolonged the hypoglycemic effects of repaglinide. Co-administration of gemfibrozil and repaglinide increases the risk of severe hypoglycemia and is contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Dasabuvir: Co-administration of gemfibrozil with dasabuvir increased dasabuvir AUC and C max (ratios: 11.3 and 2.01, respectively) due to CYP2C8 inhibition. Increased dasabuvir exposure may increase the risk of QT prolongation, therefore, co-administration of gemfibrozil with dasabuvir is contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Selexipag: Co-administration of gemfibrozil with selexipag doubled exposure to selexipag and increased exposure to the active metabolite by approximately 11-fold. Concomitant administration of gemfibrozil with selexipag is contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Enzalutamide: In healthy volunteers given a single 160 mg dose of enzalutamide after gemfibrozil 600 mg twice daily, the AUC of enzalutamide plus active metabolite (N-desmethyl enzalutamide) was increased by 2.2 fold and corresponding C max was decreased by 16%. Increased enzalutamide exposure may increase the risk of seizures. If co-administration is considered necessary, the dose of enzalutamide should be reduced (see WARNINGS ). (D) OATP1B1 substrates: Gemfibrozil is an inhibitor of OATP1B1 transporter and may increase exposure of drugs that are substrates of OATP1B1 (e.g., atrasentan, atorvastatin, bosentan, ezetimibe, fluvastatin, glyburide, SN-38 [active metabolite of irinotecan], rosuvastatin, pitavastatin, pravastatin, rifampin, valsartan, olmesartan). Therefore, dosing reductions of drugs that are substrates of OATP1B1 may be required when gemfibrozil is used concomitantly (see WARNINGS ). Combination therapy of gemfibrozil with simvastatin or with repaglinide, which are OATP1B1 substrates, is contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). (E) In vitro studies of CYP enzymes, UGTA enzymes and OATP1B1 transporter: In vitro studies have shown that gemfibrozil is an inhibitor of CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, OATP1B1, and UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 1A1 and 1A3 (see WARNINGS ). (F) Bile Acid-Binding Resins: Gemfibrozil AUC was reduced by 30% when gemfibrozil was given (600 mg) simultaneously with resin-granule drugs such as colestipol (5 g). Administration of the drugs two hours or more apart is recommended because gemfibrozil exposure was not significantly affected when it was administered two hours apart from colestipol. (G) Colchicine: Myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, has been reported with chronic administration of colchicine at therapeutic doses. Concomitant use of gemfibrozil may potentiate the development of myopathy. Patients with renal dysfunction and elderly patients are at increased risk. Caution should be exercised when prescribing gemfibrozil with colchicine, especially in elderly patients or patients with renal dysfunction. Drug Interactions (A) HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors The concomitant administration of gemfibrozil with simvastatin is contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). (B) Anticoagulants CAUTION SHOULD BE EXERCISED WHEN WARFARIN IS GIVEN IN CONJUNCTION WITH GEMFIBROZIL. (C) CYP2C8 Substrates Gemfibrozil is a strong inhibitor of CYP2C8 and may increase exposure of drugs mainly metabolized by CYP2C8 (e.g., dabrafenib, enzalutamide, loperamide, montelukast, paclitaxel, pioglitazone, rosiglitazone). Repaglinide In healthy volunteers, co-administration with gemfibrozil (600 mg twice daily for 3 days) resulted in an 8.1-fold (range 5.5- to 15-fold) higher repaglinide AUC and a 28.6-fold (range 18.5- to 80.1-fold) higher repaglinide plasma concentration 7 hours after the dose. In the same study, gemfibrozil (600 mg twice daily for 3 days) + itraconazole (200 mg in the morning and 100 mg in the evening at Day 1, then 100 mg twice daily at Day 2 to 3) resulted in a 19.4- (range 12.9- to 24.7-fold) higher repaglinide AUC and a 70.4-fold (range 42.9- to 119.2-fold) higher repaglinide plasma concentration 7 hours after the dose. Dasabuvir Co-administration of gemfibrozil with dasabuvir increased dasabuvir AUC and C max (ratios: 11.3 and 2.01, respectively) due to CYP2C8 inhibition. Selexipag Co-administration of gemfibrozil with selexipag doubled exposure to selexipag and increased exposure to the active metabolite by approximately 11-fold. Enzalutamide In healthy volunteers given a single 160 mg dose of enzalutamide after gemfibrozil 600 mg twice daily, the AUC of enzalutamide plus active metabolite (N-desmethyl enzalutamide) was increased by 2.2 fold and corresponding C max was decreased by 16%. (D) OATP1B1 substrates Gemfibrozil is an inhibitor of OATP1B1 transporter and may increase exposure of drugs that are substrates of OATP1B1 (e.g., atrasentan, atorvastatin, bosentan, ezetimibe, fluvastatin, glyburide, SN-38 [active metabolite of irinotecan], rosuvastatin, pitavastatin, pravastatin, rifampin, valsartan, olmesartan). (F) Bile Acid-Binding Resins Gemfibrozil AUC was reduced by 30% when gemfibrozil was given (600 mg) simultaneously with resin-granule drugs such as colestipol (5 g). (G) Colchicine Myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, has been reported with chronic administration of colchicine at therapeutic doses. Drug Interactions (A) HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors: The concomitant administration of gemfibrozil with simvastatin is contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). Repaglinide: In healthy volunteers, co-administration with gemfibrozil (600 mg twice daily for 3 days) resulted in an 8.1-fold (range 5.5- to 15.0-fold) higher repaglinide AUC and a 28.6-fold (range 18.5- to 80.1-fold) higher repaglinide plasma concentration 7 hours after the dose. Dasabuvir: Co-administration of gemfibrozil with dasabuvir increased dasabuvir AUC and Cmax (ratios: 11.3 and 2.01, respectively) due to CYP2C8 inhibition. Enzalutamide: In healthy volunteers given a single 160 mg dose of enzalutamide after gemfibrozil 600 mg twice daily, the AUC of enzalutamide plus active metabolite (N-desmethyl enzalutamide) was increased by 2.2 fold and corresponding Cmax was decreased by 16%. Caution should be exercised when prescribing gemfibrozil with colchicine, especially in elderly patients or patients with renal dysfunction

=== NITROUS OXIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: PURPOSE: For the temporary relief of symptoms related to pollution such as nausea, fatigue, head discomfort and abdominal discomfort.** **These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. They have not been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration.
Indications: INDICATIONS: For the temporary relief of symptoms related to pollution such as nausea, fatigue, head discomfort and abdominal discomfort.** **These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. They have not been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration.
Dosage: DIRECTIONS: 1-10 drops under the tongue, 3 times a day or as directed by a health professional. Consult a physician for use in children under 12 years of age.
Warnings: WARNINGS: Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, contact a physician or Poison Control Center right away. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Tamper Seal: "Sealed for Your Protection." Do not use if seal is broken or missing.

=== PAROXETINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Paroxetine tablets are indicated in adults for the treatment of: Major depressive disorder (MDD) Obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) Panic disorder (PD) Social anxiety disorder (SAD) Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) Paroxetine is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated in adults for the treatment of ( 1 ): Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) Panic Disorder (PD) Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Paroxetine tablets are indicated in adults for the treatment of: Major depressive disorder (MDD) Obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) Panic disorder (PD) Social anxiety disorder (SAD) Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) Paroxetine tablets is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated in adults for the treatment of ( 1 ): Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) Panic Disorder (PD) Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Paroxetine HCL CR is indicated in adults for the treatment of: Major depressive disorder (MDD) Panic disorder (PD) Social anxiety disorder (SAD) Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) Paroxetine HCL CR is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated in adults for the treatment of ( 1 ): Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) Panic Disorder (PD) Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder (PMDD) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Major Depressive Disorder Paroxetine tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder. The efficacy of paroxetine in the treatment of a major depressive episode was established in 6-week controlled trials of outpatients whose diagnoses corresponded most closely to the DSM-III category of major depressive disorder (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Clinical Trials ). A major depressive episode implies a prominent and relatively persistent depressed or dysphoric mood that usually interferes with daily functioning (nearly every day for at least 2 weeks); it should include at least 4 of the following 8 symptoms: Change in appetite, change in sleep, psychomotor agitation or retardation, loss of interest in usual activities or decrease in sexual drive, increased fatigue, feelings of guilt or worthlessness, slowed thinking or impaired concentration, and a suicide attempt or suicidal ideation. The effects of paroxetine in hospitalized depressed patients have not been adequately studied. The efficacy of paroxetine in maintaining a response in major depressive disorder for up to 1 year was demonstrated in a placebo-controlled trial (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Clinical Trials ). Nevertheless, the physician who elects to use paroxetine for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. Obsessive Compulsive Disorder Paroxetine tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of obsessions and compulsions in patients with obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) as defined in the DSM-IV. The obsessions or compulsions cause marked distress, are time-consuming, or significantly interfere with social or occupational functioning. The efficacy of paroxetine was established in two 12-week trials with obsessive compulsive outpatients whose diagnoses corresponded most closely to the DSM-IIIR category of obsessive compulsive disorder (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Clinical Trials ). Obsessive compulsive disorder is characterized by recurrent and persistent ideas, thoughts, impulses, or images (obsessions) that are ego-dystonic and/or repetitive, purposeful, and intentional behaviors (compulsions) that are recognized by the person as excessive or unreasonable. Long-term maintenance of efficacy was demonstrated in a 6-month relapse prevention trial. In this trial, patients assigned to paroxetine showed a lower relapse rate compared to patients on placebo (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Clinical Trials ). Nevertheless, the physician who elects to use paroxetine for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Panic Disorder Paroxetine tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of panic disorder, with or without agoraphobia, as defined in DSM-IV. Panic disorder is characterized by the occurrence of unexpected panic attacks and associated concern about having additional attacks, worry about the implications or consequences of the attacks, and/or a significant change in behavior related to the attacks. The efficacy of paroxetine was established in three 10- to 12-week trials in panic disorder patients whose diagnoses corresponded to the DSM-IIIR category of panic disorder (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Clinical Trials ). Panic disorder (DSM-IV) is characterized by recurrent unexpected panic attacks, i.e., a discrete period of intense fear or discomfort in which 4 (or more) of the following symptoms develop abruptly and reach a peak within 10 minutes: (1) palpitations, pounding heart, or accelerated heart rate; (2) sweating; (3) trembling or shaking; (4) sensations of shortness of breath or smothering; (5) feeling of choking; (6) chest pain or discomfort; (7) nausea or abdominal distress; (8) feeling dizzy, unsteady, lightheaded, or faint; (9) derealization (feelings of unreality) or depersonalization (being detached from oneself); (10) fear of losing control; (11) fear of dying; (12) paresthesias (numbness or tingling sensations); (13) chills or hot flushes. Long-term maintenance of efficacy was demonstrated in a 3-month relapse prevention trial. In this trial, patients with panic disorder assigned to paroxetine demonstrated a lower relapse rate compared to patients on placebo (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Clinical Trials ). Nevertheless, the physician who prescribes paroxetine for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Social Anxiety Disorder Paroxetine tablets are indicated for the treatment of social anxiety disorder, also known as social phobia, as defined in DSM-IV (300.23). Social anxiety disorder is characterized by a marked and persistent fear of 1 or more social or performance situations in which the person is exposed to unfamiliar people or to possible scrutiny by others. Exposure to the feared situation almost invariably provokes anxiety, which may approach the intensity of a panic attack. The feared situations are avoided or endured with intense anxiety or distress. The avoidance, anxious anticipation, or distress in the feared situation(s) interferes significantly with the person's normal routine, occupational or academic functioning, or social activities or relationships, or there is marked distress about having the phobias. Lesser degrees of performance anxiety or shyness generally do not require psychopharmacological treatment. The efficacy of paroxetine was established in three 12-week trials in adult patients with social anxiety disorder (DSM-IV). Paroxetine has not been studied in children or adolescents with social phobia (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Clinical Trials ). The effectiveness of paroxetine in long-term treatment of social anxiety disorder, i.e., for more than 12 weeks, has not been systematically evaluated in adequate and well-controlled trials. Therefore, the physician who elects to prescribe paroxetine for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Generalized Anxiety Disorder Paroxetine tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD), as defined in DSM-IV. Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic. The efficacy of paroxetine in the treatment of GAD was established in two 8-week placebo-controlled trials in adults with GAD. Paroxetine has not been studied in children or adolescents with Generalized Anxiety Disorder (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Clinical Trials ). Generalized Anxiety Disorder (DSM-IV) is characterized by excessive anxiety and worry (apprehensive expectation) that is persistent for at least 6 months and which the person finds difficult to control. It must be associated with at least 3 of the following 6 symptoms: Restlessness or feeling keyed up or on edge, being easily fatigued, difficulty concentrating or mind going blank, irritability, muscle tension, sleep disturbance. The efficacy of paroxetine in maintaining a response in patients with Generalized Anxiety Disorder, who responded during an 8-week acute treatment phase while taking paroxetine and were then observed for relapse during a period of up to 24 weeks, was demonstrated in a placebo-controlled trial (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Clinical Trials ). Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Paroxetine tablets are indicated for the treatment of Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). The efficacy of paroxetine in the treatment of PTSD was established in two 12-week placebo-controlled trials in adults with PTSD (DSM-IV) (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Clinical Trials ). PTSD, as defined by DSM-IV, requires exposure to a traumatic event that involved actual or threatened death or serious injury, or threat to the physical integrity of self or others, and a response that involves intense fear, helplessness, or horror. Symptoms that occur as a result of exposure to the traumatic event include reexperiencing of the event in the form of intrusive thoughts, flashbacks, or dreams, and intense psychological distress and physiological reactivity on exposure to cues to the event; avoidance of situations reminiscent of the traumatic event, inability to recall details of the event, and/or numbing of general responsiveness manifested as diminished interest in significant activities, estrangement from others, restricted range of affect, or sense of foreshortened future; and symptoms of autonomic arousal including hypervigilance, exaggerated startle response, sleep disturbance, impaired concentration, and irritability or outbursts of anger. A PTSD diagnosis requires that the symptoms are present for at least a month and that they cause clinically significant distress or impairment in social, occupational, or other important areas of functioning. The efficacy of paroxetine in longer-term treatment of PTSD, i.e., for more than 12 weeks, has not been systematically evaluated in placebo-controlled trials. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Paroxetine is indicated in adults for the treatment of: Major depressive disorder (MDD) Obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) Panic disorder (PD) Social anxiety disorder (SAD) Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) Paroxetine is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated in adults for the treatment of (1): Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) Panic Disorder (PD) Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Paroxetine Capsules are indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms (VMS) associated with menopause. Limitation of Use: Paroxetine capsules are not indicated for the treatment of any psychiatric condition. Paroxetine capsules contain a lower dose of paroxetine than that used to treat depression, obsessive compulsive disorder, panic disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, social anxiety disorder, and post-traumatic stress disorder. The safety and efficacy of this lower dose of paroxetine in paroxetine capsules have not been established for any psychiatric condition. Patients who require paroxetine for treatment of a psychiatric condition should discontinue paroxetine capsules and initiate a paroxetine-containing medication that is indicated for such use. • Paroxetine capsules are a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms associated with menopause (VMS) ( 1 ) Limitation of Use: Paroxetine capsules are not indicated for the treatment of any psychiatric condition ( 1 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Major Depressive Disorder Paroxetine tablets are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder. The efficacy of paroxetine in the treatment of a major depressive episode was established in 6-week controlled trials of outpatients whose diagnoses corresponded most closely to the DSM-III category of major depressive disorder (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Clinical Trials ). The efficacy of paroxetine in maintaining a response in major depressive disorder for up to 1 year was demonstrated in a placebo-controlled trial (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Clinical Trials ). Obsessive Compulsive Disorder Paroxetine tablets are indicated for the treatment of obsessions and compulsions in patients with obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) as defined in the DSM-IV. The efficacy of paroxetine was established in two 12-week trials with obsessive compulsive outpatients whose diagnoses corresponded most closely to the DSM-IIIR category of obsessive compulsive disorder (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Clinical Trials ). In this trial, patients assigned to paroxetine showed a lower relapse rate compared to patients on placebo (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Clinical Trials ). Panic Disorder Paroxetine tablets are indicated for the treatment of panic disorder, with or without agoraphobia, as defined in DSM-IV. The efficacy of paroxetine was established in three 10- to 12-week trials in panic disorder patients whose diagnoses corresponded to the DSM-IIIR category of panic disorder (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Clinical Trials ). In this trial, patients with panic disorder assigned to paroxetine demonstrated a lower relapse rate compared to patients on placebo (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Clinical Trials ). Paroxetine has not been studied in children or adolescents with social phobia (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Clinical Trials ). Generalized Anxiety Disorder Paroxetine tablets are indicated for the treatment of Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD), as defined in DSM-IV. Paroxetine has not been studied in children or adolescents with Generalized Anxiety Disorder (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Clinical Trials ). The efficacy of paroxetine in maintaining a response in patients with Generalized Anxiety Disorder, who responded during an 8-week acute treatment phase while taking paroxetine and were then observed for relapse during a period of up to 24 weeks, was demonstrated in a placebo-controlled trial (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Clinical Trials ).
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended starting and maximum daily dosage for MDD, OCD, PD, and PTSD: ( 2.2 ) Indication Starting Daily Dose Maximum Daily Dose MDD 20 mg 50 mg OCD 20 mg 60 mg PD 10 mg 60 mg PTSD 20 mg 50 mg Recommended starting dosage for SAD and GAD is 20 mg daily. ( 2.3 ) Elderly patients, patients with severe renal impairment or severe hepatic impairment: Starting dosage is 10 mg daily. Maximum dosage is 40 mg daily. ( 2.4 ) When discontinuing paroxetine tablets, reduce dosage gradually. ( 2.6 , 5.7 ) 2.1 Administration Information Administer paroxetine tablets as a single daily dose in the morning, with or without food. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for MDD, OCD, PD, and PTSD The recommended starting dosages and maximum dosages of paroxetine tablets in patients with MDD, OCD, PD, and PTSD are presented in Table 1. In patients with an inadequate response, increase dosage in increments of 10 mg per day at intervals of at least 1 week, depending on tolerability. Table 1 Recommended Daily Dosage of Paroxetine Tablets in Patients with MDD, OCD, PD, and PTSD Indication Starting Dose Maximum Dose MDD 20 mg 50 mg OCD 20 mg 60 mg PD 10 mg 60 mg PTSD 20 mg 50 mg 2.3 Recommended Dosage for SAD and GAD SAD The starting and recommended dosage in patients with SAD is 20 mg daily. In clinical trials the effectiveness of paroxetine tablets was demonstrated in patients dosed in a range of 20 mg to 60 mg daily. While the safety of paroxetine tablets has been evaluated in patients with SAD at doses up to 60 mg daily, available information does not suggest any additional benefit for doses above 20 mg daily [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )]. GAD The starting and recommended dosage in patients with GAD is 20 mg daily. In clinical trials the effectiveness of paroxetine tablets in GAD was demonstrated in patients dosed in a range of 20 mg to 50 mg daily. There is not sufficient evidence to suggest a greater benefit to doses higher than 20 mg daily [see Clinical Studies ( 14.5 )]. 2.4 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Paroxetine Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with paroxetine tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )]. 2.5 Recommended Dosage for Elderly Patients, Patients with Severe Renal Impairment, and Patients with Severe Hepatic Impairment The recommended initial dosage is 10 mg per day for elderly patients, patients with severe renal impairment, and patients with severe hepatic impairment. Dosage should not exceed 40 mg/day. 2.6 Switching Patients to or From a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) At least 14 days must elapse between discontinuation of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI and initiation of paroxetine tablets. In addition, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping paroxetine before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. 2.7 Discontinuation of Treatment With Paroxetine Tablets Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of paroxetine tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )]. Gradually reduce the dosage rather than stopping paroxetine abruptly whenever possible. Table 1: Recommended Daily Dosage of Paroxetine Tablets in Patients with MDD, OCD, PD, and PTSD Indication Starting Dose Maximum Dose MDD 20 mg 50 mg OCD 20 mg 60 mg PD 10 mg 60 mg PTSD 20 mg 50 mg 2.3 Recommended Dosage for SAD and GAD SAD The starting and recommended dosage in patients with SAD is 20 mg daily. In clinical trials the effectiveness of paroxetine was demonstrated in patients dosed in a range of 20 mg to 60 mg daily. While the safety of paroxetine has been evaluated in patients with SAD at doses up to 60 mg daily, available information does not suggest any additional benefit for doses above 20 mg daily [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )]. In clinical trials the effectiveness of paroxetine in GAD was demonstrated in patients dosed in a range of 20 mg to 50 mg daily. In addition, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping paroxetine tablets before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. 2.7 Discontinuation of Treatment with Paroxetine Tablets Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of paroxetine tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . Gradually reduce the dosage rather than stopping paroxetine tablets abruptly whenever possible. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Swallow tablet whole; do not chew or crush. ( 2.1 ) Recommended starting and maximum daily dosage: ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) Indication Starting Dose Maximum Dose MDD 25 mg/day 62.5 mg/day PD 12.5 mg/day 75 mg/day SAD 12.5 mg/day 37.5 mg/day PMDD 12.5 mg/day 25 mg/day For PMDD, dose continuously or intermittently (luteal phase only). ( 2.3 ) If inadequate response to starting dosage, titrate in 12.5 mg per day increments once weekly. ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) Elderly patients, patients with severe renal impairment or severe hepatic impairment: Starting dose is 12.5 mg per day. Do not exceed 50 mg per day for treatment of MDD and PD and 37.5 mg per day for treatment of SAD. ( 2.5 ) When discontinuing Paroxetine HCL CR, reduce dose gradually. ( 2.7 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Administer Paroxetine HCL CR as a single daily dose in the morning, with or without food. Swallow tablets whole and do not chew or crush. 2.2 Dosage in Patients with Major Depressive Disorder, Panic Disorder, and Social Anxiety Disorder The recommended initial dosage and maximum dosage of Paroxetine HCL CR in patients with MDD, PD, and SAD are presented in Table 1. In patients with an inadequate response, dosage may be increased in increments of 12.5 mg per day at intervals of at least 1 week, depending on tolerability. Table 1: Recommended Daily Dosage of Paroxetine HCL CR in Patients with MDD, PD, and SAD Indication Starting Dose Maximum Dose MDD 25 mg 62.5 mg PD 12.5 mg 75 mg SAD 12.5 mg 37.5 mg 2.3 Dosage in Patients with Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder The recommended starting dosage in women with PMDD is 12.5 mg per day. Paroxetine HCL CR may be administered either continuously (every day throughout the menstrual cycle) or intermittently (only during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle, i.e., starting the daily dosage 14 days prior to the anticipated onset of menstruation and continuing through the onset of menses). Intermittent dosing is repeated with each new cycle. In patients with an inadequate response, the dosage may be increased to the maximum recommended dosage of 25 mg per day, depending on tolerability. Institute dosage adjustments at intervals of at least 1 week. 2.4 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Paroxetine HCL CR Prior to initiating treatment with Paroxetine HCL CR or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )]. 2.5 Dosage Modifications for Elderly Patients, Patients with Severe Renal Impairment and Patients with Severe Hepatic Impairment The recommended initial dose of Paroxetine HCL CR is 12.5 mg per day for elderly patients, patients with severe renal impairment, and patients with severe hepatic impairment. Reduce initial dose and increase up-titration intervals if necessary. Dosage should not exceed 50 mg per day for MDD or PD and should not exceed 37.5 mg per day for SAD [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 , 8.6 )]. 2.6 Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor Antidepressant At least 14 days must elapse between discontinuation of an monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) antidepressant and initiation of Paroxetine HCL CR. In addition, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping Paroxetine HCL CR before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. 2.7 Discontinuation of Treatment with Paroxetine HCL CR Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of Paroxetine HCL CR [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] .Gradually reduce the dosage rather than stopping Paroxetine HCL CR abruptly whenever possible. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Major Depressive Disorder Usual Initial Dosage Paroxetine tablets, USP should be administered as a single daily dose with or without food, usually in the morning. The recommended initial dose is 20 mg/day. Patients were dosed in a range of 20 to 50 mg/day in the clinical trials demonstrating the effectiveness of paroxetine tablets, USP in the treatment of major depressive disorder. As with all drugs effective in the treatment of major depressive disorder, the full effect may be delayed. Some patients not responding to a 20 mg dose may benefit from dose increases, in 10 mg/day increments, up to a maximum of 50 mg/day. Dose changes should occur at intervals of at least 1 week. Maintenance Therapy There is no body of evidence available to answer the question of how long the patient treated with paroxetine tablets, USP should remain on it. It is generally agreed that acute episodes of major depressive disorder require several months or longer of sustained pharmacologic therapy. Whether the dose needed to induce remission is identical to the dose needed to maintain and/or sustain euthymia is unknown. Systematic evaluation of the efficacy of paroxetine tablets, USP has shown that efficacy is maintained for periods of up to 1 year with doses that averaged about 30 mg. Obsessive Compulsive Disorder Usual Initial Dosage Paroxetine tablets, USP should be administered as a single daily dose with or without food, usually in the morning. The recommended dose of paroxetine tablets, USP in the treatment of OCD is 40 mg daily. Patients should be started on 20 mg/day and the dose can be increased in 10 mg/day increments. Patients were dosed in a range of 20 to 60 mg/day in the clinical trials demonstrating the effectiveness of paroxetine tablets, USP in the treatment of OCD. The maximum dosage should not exceed 60 mg/day. Maintenance Therapy Long-term maintenance of efficacy was demonstrated in a 6-month relapse prevention trial. In this trial, patients with OCD assigned to paroxetine demonstrated a lower relapse rate compared to patients on placebo (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Clinical Trials ). OCD is a chronic condition, and it is reasonable to consider continuation for a responding patient. Dosage adjustments should be made to maintain the patient on the lowest effective dosage, and patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for continued treatment. Panic Disorder Usual Initial Dosage Paroxetine tablets, USP should be administered as a single daily dose with or without food, usually in the morning. The target dose of paroxetine tablets, USP in the treatment of panic disorder is 40 mg/day. Patients should be started on 10 mg/day. Dose changes should occur in 10 mg/day increments and at intervals of at least 1 week. Patients were dosed in a range of 10 to 60 mg/day in the clinical trials demonstrating the effectiveness of paroxetine tablets, USP. Maintenance Therapy Long-term maintenance of efficacy was demonstrated in a 3-month relapse prevention trial. In this trial, patients with panic disorder assigned to paroxetine demonstrated a lower relapse rate compared to patients on placebo (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Clinical Trials ). Panic disorder is a chronic condition, and it is reasonable to consider continuation for a responding patient. Social Anxiety Disorder Usual Initial Dosage Paroxetine tablets, USP should be administered as a single daily dose with or without food, usually in the morning. The recommended and initial dosage is 20 mg/day. In clinical trials the effectiveness of paroxetine tablets, USP was demonstrated in patients dosed in a range of 20 to 60 mg/day. While the safety of paroxetine tablets, USP has been evaluated in patients with social anxiety disorder at doses up to 60 mg/day, available information does not suggest any additional benefit for doses above 20 mg/day (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Clinical Trials ). Although the efficacy of paroxetine tablets, USP beyond 12 weeks of dosing has not been demonstrated in controlled clinical trials, social anxiety disorder is recognized as a chronic condition, and it is reasonable to consider continuation of treatment for a responding patient. Generalized Anxiety Disorder Usual Initial Dosage Paroxetine tablets, USP should be administered as a single daily dose with or without food, usually in the morning. In clinical trials the effectiveness of paroxetine tablets, USP was demonstrated in patients dosed in a range of 20 to 50 mg/day. The recommended starting dosage and the established effective dosage is 20 mg/day. There is not sufficient evidence to suggest a greater benefit to doses higher than 20 mg/day. Maintenance Therapy Systematic evaluation of continuing paroxetine tablets, USP for periods of up to 24 weeks in patients with Generalized Anxiety Disorder who had responded while taking paroxetine tablets, USP during an 8-week acute treatment phase has demonstrated a benefit of such maintenance (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Clinical Trials ). Nevertheless, patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment. Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Usual Initial Dosage Paroxetine tablets, USP should be administered as a single daily dose with or without food, usually in the morning. In 1 clinical trial, the effectiveness of paroxetine tablets, USP was demonstrated in patients dosed in a range of 20 to 50 mg/day. However, in a fixed dose study, there was not sufficient evidence to suggest a greater benefit for a dose of 40 mg/day compared to 20 mg/day. Dose changes, if indicated, should occur in 10 mg/day increments and at intervals of at least 1 week. Although the efficacy of paroxetine tablets, USP beyond 12 weeks of dosing has not been demonstrated in controlled clinical trials, PTSD is recognized as a chronic condition, and it is reasonable to consider continuation of treatment for a responding patient. Special Populations Treatment of Pregnant Women During the Third Trimester Neonates exposed to paroxetine tablets, USP and other SSRIs or SNRIs, late in the third trimester have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization, respiratory support, and tube feeding (see WARNINGS: Usage in Pregnancy ). When treating pregnant women with paroxetine during the third trimester, the physician should carefully consider the potential risks and benefits of treatment. Dosage for Elderly or Debilitated Patients, and Patients With Severe Renal or Hepatic Impairment The recommended initial dose is 10 mg/day for elderly patients, debilitated patients, and/or patients with severe renal or hepatic impairment. Increases may be made if indicated. Switching a Patient to or From a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with paroxetine tablets, USP. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping paroxetine tablets, USP before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). Use of Paroxetine Tablets, USP With Other MAOIs, Such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start paroxetine tablets, USP in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). In some cases, a patient already receiving therapy with paroxetine tablets, USP may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, paroxetine tablets, USP should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. The patient should be monitored for symptoms of serotonin syndrome for 2 weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, whichever comes first. Therapy with paroxetine tablets, USP may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue (see WARNINGS ). The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with paroxetine tablets is unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use (see WARNINGS ). Discontinuation of Treatment With Paroxetine Tablets, USP Symptoms associated with discontinuation of paroxetine tablets, USP have been reported (see PRECAUTIONS: Discontinuation of Treatment With Paroxetine Tablets ). Patients should be monitored for these symptoms when discontinuing treatment, regardless of the indication for which paroxetine tablets, USP is being prescribed. A gradual reduction in the dose rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible. If intolerable symptoms occur following a decrease in the dose or upon discontinuation of treatment, then resuming the previously prescribed dose may be considered. Subsequently, the physician may continue decreasing the dose but at a more gradual rate. While the safety of paroxetine tablets has been evaluated in patients with SAD at doses up to 60 mg daily, available information does not suggest any additional benefit for doses above 20 mg daily [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ]. There is not sufficient evidence to suggest a greater benefit to doses higher than 20 mg daily [see Clinical Studies (14.5) ] . 2.4 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Paroxetine Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with paroxetine tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. In addition, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping paroxetine tablets before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 2.7 Discontinuation of Treatment With Paroxetine Tablets Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of paroxetine tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Shake oral suspension well before administration (2.1) Recommended starting and maximum daily dosage for MDD, OCD, PD, and PTSD: (2.2) Indication Starting Dose Maximum Dose MDD 20 mg 50 mg OCD 20 mg 60 mg PD 10 mg 60 mg PTSD 20 mg 50 mg Recommended starting dosage for SAD and GAD is 20 mg daily. (2.3) Elderly patients, patients with severe renal impairment or severe hepatic impairment: Starting dosage is 10 mg daily. (2.4) When discontinuing paroxetine, reduce dosage gradually. (2.6, 5.7) 2.1 Administration Information Administer paroxetine oral suspension as a single daily dose in the morning, with or without food. Shake the oral suspension well before administration. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for MDD, OCD, PD, and PTSD The recommended starting dosages and maximum dosages of paroxetine oral suspension in patients with MDD, OCD, PD, and PTSD are presented in Table 1. Table 1: Recommended Daily Dosage of Paroxetine Oral Suspension in Patients with MDD, OCD, PD, and PTSD Indication Starting Dose Maximum Dose MDD 20 mg 50 mg OCD 20 mg 60 mg PD 10 mg 60 mg PTSD 20 mg 50 mg 2.3 Recommended Dosage for SAD and GAD SAD The starting and recommended dosage in patients with SAD is 20 mg daily. In clinical trials the effectiveness of paroxetine oral suspension was demonstrated in patients dosed in a range of 20 mg to 60 mg daily. While the safety of paroxetine oral suspension has been evaluated in patients with SAD at doses up to 60 mg daily, available information does not suggest any additional benefit for doses above 20 mg daily [see Clinical Studies (14.4)]. In clinical trials the effectiveness of paroxetine oral suspension in GAD was demonstrated in patients dosed in a range of 20 mg to 50 mg daily. There is not sufficient evidence to suggest a greater benefit to doses higher than 20 mg daily [see Clinical Studies (14.5)] . 2.4 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Paroxetine Oral Suspension Prior to initiating treatment with paroxetine oral suspension or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. 2.6 Switching Patients to or From a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) At least 14 days must elapse between discontinuation of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI and initiation of paroxetine oral suspension. In addition, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping paroxetine oral suspension before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . 2.7 Discontinuation of Treatment With Paroxetine Oral Suspension Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of paroxetine oral suspension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Gradually reduce the dosage rather than stopping paroxetine oral suspension abruptly whenever possible. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The recommended dosage of paroxetine capsules is 7.5 mg once daily, at bedtime (2.1) 2.1 Dosage Information The recommended dosage of paroxetine capsules for the treatment of moderate to severe VMS is 7.5 mg once daily, at bedtime, with or without food. 2.2 Use of Paroxetine Capsules Before or After a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Wait at least 14 days after discontinuation of an MAOI before initiating therapy with paroxetine capsules. Conversely, allow at least 14 days after stopping paroxetine capsules before starting an MAOI [see Contraindications (4.1), Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Drug Interactions (7.3)] . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Major Depressive Disorder Usual Initial Dosage Paroxetine should be administered as a single daily dose with or without food, usually in the morning. Patients were dosed in a range of 20 to 50 mg/day in the clinical trials demonstrating the effectiveness of paroxetine in the treatment of major depressive disorder. Some patients not responding to a 20-mg dose may benefit from dose increases, in 10-mg/day increments, up to a maximum of 50 mg/day. Maintenance Therapy There is no body of evidence available to answer the question of how long the patient treated with paroxetine should remain on it. Systematic evaluation of the efficacy of paroxetine has shown that efficacy is maintained for periods of up to 1 year with doses that averaged about 30 mg. Obsessive Compulsive Disorder Usual Initial Dosage Paroxetine should be administered as a single daily dose with or without food, usually in the morning. The recommended dose of paroxetine in the treatment of OCD is 40 mg daily. Patients should be started on 20 mg/day and the dose can be increased in 10-mg/day increments. Patients were dosed in a range of 20 to 60 mg/day in the clinical trials demonstrating the effectiveness of paroxetine in the treatment of OCD. In this trial, patients with OCD assigned to paroxetine demonstrated a lower relapse rate compared to patients on placebo (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Clinical Trials ). Panic Disorder Usual Initial Dosage P aroxetine should be administered as a single daily dose with or without food, usually in the morning. The target dose of paroxetine in the treatment of panic disorder is 40 mg/day. Dose changes should occur in 10-mg/day increments and at intervals of at least 1 week. Patients were dosed in a range of 10 to 60 mg/day in the clinical trials demonstrating the effectiveness of paroxetine. In this trial, patients with panic disorder assigned to paroxetine demonstrated a lower relapse rate compared to patients on placebo (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Clinical Trials ). Social Anxiety Disorder Usual Initial Dosage Paroxetine should be administered as a single daily dose with or without food, usually in the morning. In clinical trials the effectiveness of paroxetine was demonstrated in patients dosed in a range of 20 to 60 mg/day. While the safety of paroxetine has been evaluated in patients with social anxiety disorder at doses up to 60 mg/day, available information does not suggest any additional benefit for doses above 20 mg/day (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Clinical Trials ). Although the efficacy of paroxetine beyond 12 weeks of dosing has not been demonstrated in controlled clinical trials, social anxiety disorder is recognized as a chronic condition, and it is reasonable to consider continuation of treatment for a responding patient. Generalized Anxiety Disorder Usual Initial Dosage Paroxetine should be administered as a single daily dose with or without food, usually in the morning. In clinical trials the effectiveness of paroxetine was demonstrated in patients dosed in a range of 20 to 50 mg/day. Maintenance Therapy Systematic evaluation of continuing paroxetine for periods of up to 24 weeks in patients with Generalized Anxiety Disorder who had responded while taking paroxetine during an 8-week acute treatment phase has demonstrated a benefit of such maintenance (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Clinical Trials ). Special Populations Treatment of Pregnant Women During the Third Trimester Neonates exposed to paroxetine and other SSRIs or SNRIs, late in the third trimester have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization, respiratory support, and tube feeding (see WARNINGS, Usage in Pregnancy ). Switching a Patient to or From a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders: At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with paroxetine Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping paroxetine before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Use of Paroxetine With Other MAOIs, Such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start paroxetine tablets in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In some cases, a patient already receiving therapy with paroxetine tablets may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, paroxetine tablets should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. Therapy with paroxetine tablets may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue (see WARNINGS ). The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with paroxetine is unclear. Discontinuation of Treatment With Paroxetine Symptoms associated with discontinuation of paroxetine have been reported (see PRECAUTIONS: Discontinuation of Treatment With Paroxetine ). Patients should be monitored for these symptoms when discontinuing treatment, regardless of the indication for which paroxetine is being prescribed.
Warnings: WARNINGS Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Patients with major depressive disorder (MDD), both adult and pediatric, may experience worsening of their depression and/or the emergence of suicidal ideation and behavior (suicidality) or unusual changes in behavior, whether or not they are taking antidepressant medications, and this risk may persist until significant remission occurs. Suicide is a known risk of depression and certain other psychiatric disorders, and these disorders themselves are the strongest predictors of suicide. There has been a long-standing concern, however, that antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment. Pooled analyses of short-term placebo-controlled trials of antidepressant drugs (SSRIs and others) showed that these drugs increase the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents, and young adults (ages 18 to 24) with major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. Short-term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24; there was a reduction with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older. The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in children and adolescents with MDD, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 24 short-term trials of 9 antidepressant drugs in over 4,400 patients. The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in adults with MDD or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 295 short-term trials (median duration of 2 months) of 11 antidepressant drugs in over 77,000 patients. There was considerable variation in risk of suicidality among drugs, but a tendency toward an increase in the younger patients for almost all drugs studied. There were differences in absolute risk of suicidality across the different indications, with the highest incidence in MDD. The risk differences (drug vs placebo), however, were relatively stable within age strata and across indications. These risk differences (drug-placebo difference in the number of cases of suicidality per 1,000 patients treated) are provided in Table 1. Table 1 Age Range Drug-Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1,000 Patients Treated Increases Compared to Placebo <18 14 additional cases 18 to 24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25 to 64 1 fewer case ≥65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. There were suicides in the adult trials, but the number was not sufficient to reach any conclusion about drug effect on suicide. It is unknown whether the suicidality risk extends to longer-term use, i.e., beyond several months. However, there is substantial evidence from placebo-controlled maintenance trials in adults with depression that the use of antidepressants can delay the recurrence of depression. All patients being treated with antidepressants for any indication should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening, suicidality, and unusual changes in behavior, especially during the initial few months of a course of drug therapy, or at times of dose changes, either increases or decreases. The following symptoms, anxiety, agitation, panic attacks, insomnia, irritability, hostility, aggressiveness, impulsivity, akathisia (psychomotor restlessness), hypomania, and mania, have been reported in adult and pediatric patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder as well as for other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric. Although a causal link between the emergence of such symptoms and either the worsening of depression and/or the emergence of suicidal impulses has not been established, there is concern that such symptoms may represent precursors to emerging suicidality. Consideration should be given to changing the therapeutic regimen, including possibly discontinuing the medication, in patients whose depression is persistently worse, or who are experiencing emergent suicidality or symptoms that might be precursors to worsening depression or suicidality, especially if these symptoms are severe, abrupt in onset, or were not part of the patient's presenting symptoms. If the decision has been made to discontinue treatment, medication should be tapered, as rapidly as is feasible, but with recognition that abrupt discontinuation can be associated with certain symptoms (see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Discontinuation of Treatment With Paroxetine Tablets , for a description of the risks of discontinuation of paroxetine). Families and caregivers of patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder or other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric, should be alerted about the need to monitor patients for the emergence of agitation, irritability, unusual changes in behavior, and the other symptoms described above, as well as the emergence of suicidality, and to report such symptoms immediately to healthcare providers. Such monitoring should include daily observation by families and caregivers. Prescriptions for paroxetine should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management, in order to reduce the risk of overdose Screening Patients for Bipolar Disorder A major depressive episode may be the initial presentation of bipolar disorder. It is generally believed (though not established in controlled trials) that treating such an episode with an antidepressant alone may increase the likelihood of precipitation of a mixed/manic episode in patients at risk for bipolar disorder. Whether any of the symptoms described above represent such a conversion is unknown. However, prior to initiating treatment with an antidepressant, patients with depressive symptoms should be adequately screened to determine if they are at risk for bipolar disorder; such screening should include a detailed psychiatric history, including a family history of suicide, bipolar disorder, and depression. It should be noted that paroxetine is not approved for use in treating bipolar depression. Serotonin Syndrome The development of a potentially life-threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with SNRIs and SSRIs, including paroxetine, alone but particularly with concomitant use of other serotonergic drugs (including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone, amphetamines, and St. John’s Wort) and with drugs that impair metabolism of serotonin (in particular, MAOIs, both those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). Patients should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. The concomitant use of paroxetine with MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders is contraindicated. Paroxetine should also not be started in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. All reports with methylene blue that provided information on the route of administration involved intravenous administration in the dose range of 1 mg/kg to 8 mg/kg. No reports involved the administration of methylene blue by other routes (such as oral tablets or local tissue injection) or at lower doses. There may be circumstances when it is necessary to initiate treatment with an MAOI such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue in a patient taking paroxetine. Paroxetine should be discontinued before initiating treatment with the MAOI (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). If concomitant use of paroxetine with certain other serotonergic drugs, i.e., triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, buspirone, tryptophan, amphetamines, and St. John’s Wort is clinically warranted, be aware of a potential increased risk for serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Treatment with paroxetine and any concomitant serotonergic agents should be discontinued immediately if the above events occur and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated. Angle-Closure Glaucoma The pupillary dilation that occurs following use of many antidepressant drugs including paroxetine may trigger an angle closure attack in a patient with anatomically narrow angles who does not have a patent iridectomy. Potential Interaction With Thioridazine Thioridazine administration alone produces prolongation of the QTc interval, which is associated with serious ventricular arrhythmias, such as torsade de pointes–type arrhythmias, and sudden death. This effect appears to be dose related. An in vivo study suggests that drugs which inhibit CYP2D6, such as paroxetine, will elevate plasma levels of thioridazine. Therefore, it is recommended that paroxetine not be used in combination with thioridazine (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS ). Usage in pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Epidemiological studies have shown that infants exposed to paroxetine in the first trimester of pregnancy have an increased risk of congenital malformations, particularly cardiovascular malformations. The findings from these studies are summarized below: A study based on Swedish national registry data demonstrated that infants exposed to paroxetine during pregnancy (n = 815) had an increased risk of cardiovascular malformations (2% risk in paroxetine-exposed infants) compared to the entire registry population (1% risk), for an odds ratio (OR) of 1.8 (95% confidence interval 1.1 to 2.8). No increase in the risk of overall congenital malformations was seen in the paroxetine-exposed infants. The cardiac malformations in the paroxetine-exposed infants were primarily ventricular septal defects (VSDs) and atrial septal defects (ASDs). Septal defects range in severity from those that resolve spontaneously to those which require surgery. A separate retrospective cohort study from the United States (United Healthcare data) evaluated 5,956 infants of mothers dispensed antidepressants during the first trimester (n = 815 for paroxetine). This study showed a trend towards an increased risk for cardiovascular malformations for paroxetine (risk of 1.5%) compared to other antidepressants (risk of 1%), for an OR of 1.5 (95% confidence interval 0.8 to 2.9). Of the 12 paroxetine-exposed infants with cardiovascular malformations, 9 had VSDs. This study also suggested an increased risk of overall major congenital malformations including cardiovascular defects for paroxetine (4% risk) compared to other (2% risk) antidepressants (OR 1.8; 95% confidence interval 1.2 to 2.8). Two large case-control studies using separate databases, each with >9,000 birth defect cases and >4,000 controls, found that maternal use of paroxetine during the first trimester of pregnancy was associated with a 2- to 3-fold increased risk of right ventricular outflow tract obstructions. In one study the odds ratio was 2.5 (95% confidence interval, 1 to 6, 7 exposed infants) and in the other study the odds ratio was 3.3 (95% confidence interval, 1.3 to 8.8, 6 exposed infants). Other studies have found varying results as to whether there was an increased risk of overall, cardiovascular, or specific congenital malformations. A meta-analysis of epidemiological data over a 16-year period (1992 to 2008) on first trimester paroxetine use in pregnancy and congenital malformations included the above-noted studies in addition to others (n = 17 studies that included overall malformations and n = 14 studies that included cardiovascular malformations; n = 20 distinct studies). While subject to limitations, this meta-analysis suggested an increased occurrence of cardiovascular malformations (prevalence odds ratio [POR] 1.5; 95% confidence interval 1.2 to 1.9) and overall malformations (POR 1.2; 95% confidence interval 1.1 to 1.4) with paroxetine use during the first trimester. It was not possible in this meta-analysis to determine the extent to which the observed prevalence of cardiovascular malformations might have contributed to that of overall malformations, nor was it possible to determine whether any specific types of cardiovascular malformations might have contributed to the observed prevalence of all cardiovascular malformations. If a patient becomes pregnant while taking paroxetine, she should be advised of the potential harm to the fetus. Unless the benefits of paroxetine to the mother justify continuing treatment, consideration should be given to either discontinuing paroxetine therapy or switching to another antidepressant (see PRECAUTIONS: Discontinuation of Treatment With Paroxetine Tablets ). For women who intend to become pregnant or are in their first trimester of pregnancy, paroxetine should only be initiated after consideration of the other available treatment options. Animal Findings Reproduction studies were performed at doses up to 50 mg/kg/day in rats and 6 mg/kg/day in rabbits administered during organogenesis. These doses are approximately 8 (rat) and 2 (rabbit) times the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) on an mg/m 2 basis. These studies have revealed no evidence of teratogenic effects. However, in rats, there was an increase in pup deaths during the first 4 days of lactation when dosing occurred during the last trimester of gestation and continued throughout lactation. This effect occurred at a dose of 1 mg/kg/day or approximately one-sixth of the MRHD on an mg/m 2 basis. The no-effect dose for rat pup mortality was not determined. The cause of these deaths is not known. Nonteratogenic Effects Neonates exposed to paroxetine and other SSRIs or serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), late in the third trimester have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization, respiratory support, and tube feeding. Such complications can arise immediately upon delivery. Reported clinical findings have included respiratory distress, cyanosis, apnea, seizures, temperature instability, feeding difficulty, vomiting, hypoglycemia, hypotonia, hypertonia, hyperreflexia, tremor, jitteriness, irritability, and constant crying. These features are consistent with either a direct toxic effect of SSRIs and SNRIs or, possibly, a drug discontinuation syndrome. It should be noted that, in some cases, the clinical picture is consistent with serotonin syndrome (see WARNINGS: Serotonin Syndrome ). Infants exposed to SSRIs in pregnancy may have an increased risk for persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn (PPHN). PPHN occurs in 1 to 2 per 1,000 live births in the general population and is associated with substantial neonatal morbidity and mortality. Several recent epidemiologic studies suggest a positive statistical association between SSRI use (including paroxetine) in pregnancy and PPHN. Other studies do not show a significant statistical association. Physicians should also note the results of a prospective longitudinal study of 201 pregnant women with a history of major depression, who were either on antidepressants or had received antidepressants less than 12 weeks prior to their last menstrual period, and were in remission. Women who discontinued antidepressant medication during pregnancy showed a significant increase in relapse of their major depression compared to those women who remained on antidepressant medication throughout pregnancy. When treating a pregnant woman with paroxetine, the physician should carefully consider both the potential risks of taking an SSRI, along with the established benefits of treating depression with an antidepressant. This decision can only be made on a case by case basis (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION and ADVERSE REACTIONS: Postmarketing Reports ). All patients being treated with antidepressants for any indication should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening, suicidality, and unusual changes in behavior, especially during the initial few months of a course of drug therapy, or at times of dose changes, either increases or decreases . If the decision has been made to discontinue treatment, medication should be tapered, as rapidly as is feasible, but with recognition that abrupt discontinuation can be associated with certain symptoms (see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Discontinuation of Treatment With Paroxetine , for a description of the risks of discontinuation of paroxetine). Prescriptions for paroxetine should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management, in order to reduce the risk of overdose. Screening Patients for Bipolar Disorder A major depressive episode may be the initial presentation of bipolar disorder. Serotonin Syndrome The development of a potentially life-threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with SNRIs and SSRIs, including paroxetine tablets, alone but particularly with concomitant use of other serotonergic drugs (including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone, amphetamines, and St. If concomitant use of paroxetine tablets with certain other serotonergic drugs, i.e., triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, buspirone, tryptophan, amphetamines, and St. Treatment with paroxetine tablets and any concomitant serotonergic agents should be discontinued immediately if the above events occur and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated. Angle-Closure Glaucoma The pupillary dilation that occurs following use of many antidepressant drugs including paroxetine tablets may trigger an angle closure attack in a patient with anatomically narrow angles who does not have a patent iridectomy. Potential Interaction With Thioridazine Thioridazine administration alone produces prolongation of the QTc interval, which is associated with serious ventricular arrhythmias, such as torsade de pointes − type arrhythmias, and sudden death. In one study the odds ratio was 2.5 (95% confidence interval, 1.0 to 6.0, 7 exposed infants) and in the other study the odds ratio was 3.3 (95% confidence interval, 1.3 to 8.8, 6 exposed infants). Unless the benefits of paroxetine to the mother justify continuing treatment, consideration should be given to either discontinuing paroxetine therapy or switching to another antidepressant (see PRECAUTIONS, Discontinuation of Treatment With Paroxetine ) . Nonteratogenic Effects Neonates exposed to paroxetine hydrochloride and other SSRIs or serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), late in the third trimester have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization, respiratory support, and tube feeding. It should be noted that, in some cases, the clinical picture is consistent with serotonin syndrome (see WARNINGS, Serotonin Syndrome ). Several recent epidemiologic studies suggest a positive statistical association between SSRI use (including paroxetine tablets) in pregnancy and PPHN. When treating a pregnant woman with paroxetine tablets, the physician should carefully consider both the potential risks of taking an SSRI, along with the established benefits of treating depression with an antidepressant. This decision can only be made on a case by case basis (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION and ADVERSE REACTIONS, Postmarketing Reports ).
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Paroxetine tablets are contraindicated in patients: Taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including the MAOIs linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Drug Interactions ( 7) ]. Taking thioridazine because of risk of QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 , Drug Interactions ( 7 )] Taking pimozide because of risk of QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. With known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to paroxetine or any of the inactive ingredients in paroxetine tablets [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ), ( 6.2 )]. Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within 14 days of discontinuing a MAOI. ( 4 , 5.3 , 7 ) Concomitant use of pimozide or thioridazine. ( 4 , 5.3 , 7 ) Known hypersensitivity to paroxetine or to any of the inactive ingredients in paroxetine tablets. ( 4 ) Taking thioridazine because of risk of QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 )] Taking pimozide because of risk of QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Paroxetine tablets are contraindicated in patients: Taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including the MAOIs linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. Taking thioridazine because of risk of QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Drug Interactions (7)] Taking pimozide because of risk of QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . With known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to paroxetine or any of the inactive ingredients in paroxetine tablets [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ), ( 6.2 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Paroxetine HCL CR is contraindicated in patients: Taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including the MAOIs linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Drug Interactions (7)]. Paroxetine HCL CR should not be used in patients receiving medications that can prolong QT interval and are also metabolized by CYP450 2D6,such as thioridazine or pimozide [see Drug Interactions (7),Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. With known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to paroxetine or to any of the inactive ingredients in Paroxetine HCL CR [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 , 6.2 )]. Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within 14 days of discontinuing a MAOIs. ( 4 , 5.2 , 7 ) Concomitant use of pimozide or thioridazine. ( 4 , 5.3 , 7 ) Known hypersensitivity to paroxetine or to any of the inactive ingredients in Paroxetine HCL CR. CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with paroxetine tablets or within 14 days of stopping treatment with paroxetine tablets is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of paroxetine tablets within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Starting paroxetine tablets in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Concomitant use with thioridazine is contraindicated (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ). Concomitant use in patients taking pimozide is contraindicated (see PRECAUTIONS ). Paroxetine tablets are contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to paroxetine or any of the inactive ingredients in paroxetine tablets. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Paroxetine tablets are contraindicated in patients: Taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including the MAOIs linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Drug Interactions (7) ]. Taking thioridazine because of risk of QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Drug Interactions (7) ]. Taking pimozide because of risk of QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Drug Interactions (7) ]. With known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to paroxetine or any of the inactive ingredients in paroxetine tablets [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) , (6.2) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Paroxetine oral suspension is contraindicated in patients: Taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including the MAOIs linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2), Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. Taking thioridazine because of risk of QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3), Drug Interactions (7)]. Taking pimozide because of risk of QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3), Drug Interactions (7)]. With known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, Stevens-Johnson syndrome) to paroxetine or any of the inactive ingredients in paroxetine oral suspension [see Adverse Reactions (6.1), (6.2)] . (4, 5.3, 7) Concomitant use of pimozide or thioridazine. (4, 5.3,7) Known hypersensitivity to paroxetine or to any of the inactive ingredients in paroxetine oral suspension. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Concurrent use with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) or use within 14 days of MAOI use ( 2.2 , 4.1 , 5.2 , 7.3 ) • Use with thioridazine ( 4.2 , 7.1 ) • Use with pimozide ( 4.3 , 7.1 ) • Hypersensitivity to any ingredient in paroxetine capsules ( 4.4 ) • Pregnancy ( 4.5 , 8.1 ) 4.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Concomitant use of an MAOI with paroxetine capsules or within 14 days of stopping treatment with paroxetine capsules is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of paroxetine capsules within 14 days of stopping an MAOI is also contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Drug Interactions (7.3)] . Starting paroxetine capsules in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, both of which inhibit monoamine oxidase, is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Drug Interactions (7.3)] . 4.2 Thioridazine Concomitant use of paroxetine capsules with thioridazine is contraindicated, because thioridazine prolongs the QT interval, and paroxetine can increase thioridazine levels [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] . 4.3 Pimozide Concomitant use of paroxetine capsules with pimozide is contraindicated because pimozide prolongs the QT interval, and paroxetine increases pimozide levels [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] . 4.4 Hypersensitivity to any Ingredient in Paroxetine Capsules Paroxetine capsules are contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to paroxetine or any of the other ingredients in paroxetine capsules. 4.5 Pregnancy Menopausal VMS does not occur during pregnancy and paroxetine capsules may cause fetal harm [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. The use of paroxetine within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ).
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 9 presents clinically significant drug interactions with paroxetine. Table 9 Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Paroxetine Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact The concomitant use of SSRIs, including paroxetine, and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Paroxetine is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ), Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Examples selegiline, tranylcypromine, isocarboxazid, phenelzine, linezolid, methylene blue Pimozide and Thioridazine Clinical Impact Increased plasma concentrations of pimozide and thioridazine, drugs with a narrow therapeutic index, may increase the risk of QTc prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias. Intervention Paroxetine is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide or thioridazine [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact The concomitant use of serotonergic drugs with paroxetine increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of paroxetine and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Examples other SSRIs, SNRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, tryptophan, buspirone, amphetamines and St. John's Wort. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants) Clinical Impact The concurrent use of an antiplatelet agent or anticoagulant with paroxetine may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Intervention Inform patients of the increased risk of bleeding associated with the concomitant use of paroxetine and antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . Examples aspirin, clopidogrel, heparin, warfarin Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Protein Clinical Impact Paroxetine is highly bound to plasma protein. The concomitant use of paroxetine with another drug that is highly bound to plasma protein may increase free concentrations of paroxetine or other tightly-bound drugs in plasma. Intervention Monitor for adverse reactions and reduce dosage of paroxetine or other protein-bound drugs as warranted. Examples warfarin Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Clinical Impact Paroxetine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . The concomitant use of paroxetine with a CYP2D6 substrate may increase the exposure of the CYP2D6 substrate. Intervention Decrease the dosage of a CYP2D6 substrate if needed with concomitant paroxetine use. Conversely, an increase in dosage of a CYP2D6 substrate may be needed if paroxetine is discontinued. Examples propafenone, flecainide, atomoxetine, desipramine, dextromethorphan, metoprolol, nebivolol, perphenazine, tolterodine, venlafaxine, risperidone. Tamoxifen Clinical Impact Concomitant use of tamoxifen with paroxetine may lead to reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite (endoxifen) and reduced efficacy of tamoxifen Intervention Consider use of an alternative antidepressant with little or no CYP2D6 inhibition [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )] . Fosamprenavir/Ritonavir Clinical Impact Co-administration of fosamprenavir/ritonavir with paroxetine significantly decreased plasma levels of paroxetine. Intervention Any dose adjustment should be guided by clinical effect (tolerability and efficacy). Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Protein: Monitor for adverse reactions and reduce dosage of paroxetine or other protein-bound drugs (e.g., warfarin) as warranted. ( 7 ) Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6: Reduce dosage of drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 as warranted. ( 7 ) Concomitant use with tamoxifen: Consider use of an alternative antidepressant with little or no CYP2D6 inhibition. ( 5.11 , 7 ) Table 9: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Paroxetine Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact The concomitant use of SSRIs, including paroxetine, and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Paroxetine is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ), Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Intervention Paroxetine is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide or thioridazine [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. Examples other SSRIs, SNRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, tryptophan, buspirone, amphetamines, and St. John’s Wort. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )]. Examples Warfarin Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Clinical Impact Paroxetine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Tamoxifen Clinical Impact Concomitant use of tamoxifen with paroxetine may lead to reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite (endoxifen) and reduced efficacy of tamoxifen Intervention Consider use of an alternative antidepressant with little or no CYP2D6 inhibition [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Protein: Monitor for adverse reactions and reduce dosage of Paroxetine HCL CR or other protein-bound drugs (e.g., warfarin) as warranted. ( 5.11 , 7 ) 7.1 Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Paroxetine HCL CR Table 6 includes clinically significant drug interactions with Paroxetine HCL CR. Table 6: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Paroxetine HCL CR Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact The concomitant use of SSRIs, including Paroxetine HCL CR, and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Paroxetine HCL CR is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ), Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Examples selegiline, tranylcypromine, isocarboxazid, phenelzine, linezolid, methylene blue Pimozide and Thioridazine Clinical Impact Paroxetine HCL CR should not be used in patients receiving medications that can prolong QT interval and are metabolized by CYP450 2D6 such as thioridazine or pimozide (see Contraindications and Warnings and Precautions ) Intervention Paroxetine HCL CR is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide or thioridazine [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact The concomitant use of serotonergic drugs with Paroxetine HCL CR increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of Paroxetine HCL CR and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Examples Other SSRIs, SNRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, tryptophan, buspirone, St. John’s Wort Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants) Clinical Impact The concurrent use of an antiplatelet agent or anticoagulant with Paroxetine HCL CR may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Intervention Inform patients of the increased risk of bleeding associated with the concomitant use of Paroxetine HCL CR and antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants. Examples aspirin, clopidogrel, heparin, warfarin Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Protein Clinical Impact Paroxetine HCL CR is highly bound to plasma protein. The concomitant use of Paroxetine HCL CR with another drug that is highly bound to plasma protein may increase free concentrations of Paroxetine HCL CR or other tightly-bound drugs in plasma. Intervention Monitor for adverse reactions and reduce dosage of Paroxetine HCL CR or other protein-bound drugs as warranted. Examples warfarin Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Clinical Impact Paroxetine HCL CR is a CYP2D6 inhibitor [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. The concomitant use of Paroxetine HCL CR with a CYP2D6 substrate may increase the exposure of the CYP2D6 substrate. Intervention Decrease the dosage of a CYP2D6 substrate if needed with concomitant Paroxetine HCL CR use. Conversely, an increase in dosage of a CYP2D6 substrate may be needed if Paroxetine HCL CR is discontinued. Tamoxifen Clinical Impact Concomitant use of tamoxifen with Paroxetine HCL CR may lead to reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite (endoxifen) and reduced efficacy of tamoxifen Intervention Consider use of an alternative antidepressant little or no CYP2D6 inhibition [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )]. Drug Interactions Tryptophan As with other serotonin reuptake inhibitors, an interaction between paroxetine and tryptophan may occur when they are coadministered. Adverse experiences, consisting primarily of headache, nausea, sweating, and dizziness, have been reported when tryptophan was administered to patients taking paroxetine. Consequently, concomitant use of paroxetine with tryptophan is not recommended (see WARNINGS: Serotonin Syndrome ). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors See CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS. Pimozide In a controlled study of healthy volunteers, after paroxetine was titrated to 60 mg daily, co-administration of a single dose of 2 mg pimozide was associated with mean increases in pimozide AUC of 151% and C max of 62%, compared to pimozide administered alone. The increase in pimozide AUC and C max is due to the CYP2D6 inhibitory properties of paroxetine. Due to the narrow therapeutic index of pimozide and its known ability to prolong the QT interval, concomitant use of pimozide and paroxetine is contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Serotonergic Drugs Based on the mechanism of action of SNRIs and SSRIs, including paroxetine hydrochloride, and the potential for serotonin syndrome, caution is advised when paroxetine is coadministered with other drugs that may affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter systems, such as triptans, lithium, fentanyl, tramadol, amphetamines, or St. John’s Wort (see WARNINGS: Serotonin Syndrome ). The concomitant use of paroxetine with MAOIs (including linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) is contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). The concomitant use of paroxetine with other SSRIs, SNRIs or tryptophan is not recommended (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions: Tryptophan ). Thioridazine See CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS . Warfarin Preliminary data suggest that there may be a pharmacodynamic interaction (that causes an increased bleeding diathesis in the face of unaltered prothrombin time) between paroxetine and warfarin. Since there is little clinical experience, the concomitant administration of paroxetine and warfarin should be undertaken with caution (see PRECAUTIONS: Drugs That Interfere With Hemostasis ). Triptans There have been rare postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome with the use of an SSRI and a triptan. If concomitant use of paroxetine with a triptan is clinically warranted, careful observation of the patient is advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases (see WARNINGS: Serotonin Syndrome ). Drugs Affecting Hepatic Metabolism The metabolism and pharmacokinetics of paroxetine may be affected by the induction or inhibition of drug-metabolizing enzymes. Cimetidine Cimetidine inhibits many cytochrome P 450 (oxidative) enzymes. In a study where paroxetine (30 mg once daily) was dosed orally for 4 weeks, steady-state plasma concentrations of paroxetine were increased by approximately 50% during coadministration with oral cimetidine (300 mg three times daily) for the final week. Therefore, when these drugs are administered concurrently, dosage adjustment of paroxetine after the 20 mg starting dose should be guided by clinical effect. The effect of paroxetine on cimetidine’s pharmacokinetics was not studied. Phenobarbital Phenobarbital induces many cytochrome P 450 (oxidative) enzymes. When a single oral 30 mg dose of paroxetine was administered at phenobarbital steady state (100 mg once daily for 14 days), paroxetine AUC and T ½ were reduced (by an average of 25% and 38%, respectively) compared to paroxetine administered alone. The effect of paroxetine on phenobarbital pharmacokinetics was not studied. Since paroxetine exhibits nonlinear pharmacokinetics, the results of this study may not address the case where the 2 drugs are both being chronically dosed. No initial dosage adjustment of paroxetine is considered necessary when coadministered with phenobarbital; any subsequent adjustment should be guided by clinical effect. Phenytoin When a single oral 30 mg dose of paroxetine was administered at phenytoin steady state (300 mg once daily for 14 days), paroxetine AUC and T ½ were reduced (by an average of 50% and 35%, respectively) compared to paroxetine administered alone. In a separate study, when a single oral 300 mg dose of phenytoin was administered at paroxetine steady state (30 mg once daily for 14 days), phenytoin AUC was slightly reduced (12% on average) compared to phenytoin administered alone. Since both drugs exhibit nonlinear pharmacokinetics, the above studies may not address the case where the 2 drugs are both being chronically dosed. No initial dosage adjustments are considered necessary when these drugs are coadministered; any subsequent adjustments should be guided by clinical effect (see ADVERSE REACTIONS: Postmarketing Reports ). Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Many drugs, including most drugs effective in the treatment of major depressive disorder (paroxetine, other SSRIs and many tricyclics), are metabolized by the cytochrome P 450 isozyme CYP2D6. Like other agents that are metabolized by CYP2D6, paroxetine may significantly inhibit the activity of this isozyme. In most patients (>90%), this CYP2D6 isozyme is saturated early during dosing with paroxetine. In 1 study, daily dosing of paroxetine (20 mg once daily) under steady-state conditions increased single dose desipramine (100 mg) C max , AUC, and T ½ by an average of approximately 2-, 5-, and 3-fold, respectively. Concomitant use of paroxetine with risperidone, a CYP2D6 substrate has also been evaluated. In 1 study, daily dosing of paroxetine 20 mg in patients stabilized on risperidone (4 to 8 mg/day) increased mean plasma concentrations of risperidone approximately 4-fold, decreased 9-hydroxyrisperidone concentrations approximately 10%, and increased concentrations of the active moiety (the sum of risperidone plus 9-hydroxyrisperidone) approximately 1.4-fold. The effect of paroxetine on the pharmacokinetics of atomoxetine has been evaluated when both drugs were at steady state. In healthy volunteers who were extensive metabolizers of CYP2D6, paroxetine 20 mg daily was given in combination with 20 mg atomoxetine every 12 hours. This resulted in increases in steady state atomoxetine AUC values that were 6- to 8-fold greater and in atomoxetine C max values that were 3- to 4-fold greater than when atomoxetine was given alone. Dosage adjustment of atomoxetine may be necessary and it is recommended that atomoxetine be initiated at a reduced dose when it is given with paroxetine. Concomitant use of paroxetine with other drugs metabolized by cytochrome CYP2D6 has not been formally studied but may require lower doses than usually prescribed for either paroxetine or the other drug. Therefore, coadministration of paroxetine with other drugs that are metabolized by this isozyme, including certain drugs effective in the treatment of major depressive disorder (e.g., nortriptyline, amitriptyline, imipramine, desipramine, and fluoxetine), phenothiazines, risperidone, and Type 1C antiarrhythmics (e.g., propafenone, flecainide, and encainide), or that inhibit this enzyme (e.g., quinidine), should be approached with caution. However, due to the risk of serious ventricular arrhythmias and sudden death potentially associated with elevated plasma levels of thioridazine, paroxetine and thioridazine should not be coadministered (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ). Tamoxifen is a pro-drug requiring metabolic activation by CYP2D6. Inhibition of CYP2D6 by paroxetine may lead to reduced plasma concentrations of an active metabolite (endoxifen) and hence reduced efficacy of tamoxifen (see PRECAUTIONS ). At steady state, when the CYP2D6 pathway is essentially saturated, paroxetine clearance is governed by alternative P 450 isozymes that, unlike CYP2D6, show no evidence of saturation (see PRECAUTIONS: Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs)). Drugs Metabolized by Cytochrome CYP3A4 An in vivo interaction study involving the coadministration under steady-state conditions of paroxetine and terfenadine, a substrate for cytochrome CYP3A4, revealed no effect of paroxetine on terfenadine pharmacokinetics. In addition, in vitro studies have shown ketoconazole, a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 activity, to be at least 100 times more potent than paroxetine as an inhibitor of the metabolism of several substrates for this enzyme, including terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, triazolam, and cyclosporine. Based on the assumption that the relationship between paroxetine’s in vitro K i and its lack of effect on terfenadine’s in vivo clearance predicts its effect on other CYP3A4 substrates, paroxetine’s extent of inhibition of CYP3A4 activity is not likely to be of clinical significance. Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) Caution is indicated in the coadministration of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) with paroxetine, because paroxetine may inhibit TCA metabolism. Plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored, and the dose of TCA may need to be reduced, if a TCA is coadministered with paroxetine (see PRECAUTIONS: Drugs Metabolized by Cytochrome CYP2D6 ). Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Protein Because paroxetine is highly bound to plasma protein, administration of paroxetine to a patient taking another drug that is highly protein bound may cause increased free concentrations of the other drug, potentially resulting in adverse events. Conversely, adverse effects could result from displacement of paroxetine by other highly bound drugs. Drugs That Interfere With Hemostasis (e.g., NSAIDs, Aspirin, and Warfarin) Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies of the case-control and cohort design that have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding have also shown that concurrent use of an NSAID or aspirin may potentiate this risk of bleeding. Altered anticoagulant effects, including increased bleeding, have been reported when SSRIs or SNRIs are coadministered with warfarin. Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when paroxetine is initiated or discontinued. Alcohol Although paroxetine does not increase the impairment of mental and motor skills caused by alcohol, patients should be advised to avoid alcohol while taking paroxetine. Lithium A multiple-dose study has shown that there is no pharmacokinetic interaction between paroxetine and lithium carbonate. However, due to the potential for serotonin syndrome, caution is advised when paroxetine is coadministered with lithium. Digoxin The steady-state pharmacokinetics of paroxetine was not altered when administered with digoxin at steady state. Mean digoxin AUC at steady state decreased by 15% in the presence of paroxetine. Since there is little clinical experience, the concurrent administration of paroxetine and digoxin should be undertaken with caution. Diazepam Under steady-state conditions, diazepam does not appear to affect paroxetine kinetics. The effects of paroxetine on diazepam were not evaluated. Procyclidine Daily oral dosing of paroxetine (30 mg once daily) increased steady-state AUC 0-24 , C max , and C min values of procyclidine (5 mg oral once daily) by 35%, 37%, and 67%, respectively, compared to procyclidine alone at steady state. If anticholinergic effects are seen, the dose of procyclidine should be reduced. Beta-Blockers In a study where propranolol (80 mg twice daily) was dosed orally for 18 days, the established steady-state plasma concentrations of propranolol were unaltered during coadministration with paroxetine (30 mg once daily) for the final 10 days. The effects of propranolol on paroxetine have not been evaluated (see ADVERSE REACTIONS: Postmarketing Reports ). Theophylline Reports of elevated theophylline levels associated with treatment with paroxetine have been reported. While this interaction has not been formally studied, it is recommended that theophylline levels be monitored when these drugs are concurrently administered. Fosamprenavir/Ritonavir Co-administration of fosamprenavir/ritonavir with paroxetine significantly decreased plasma levels of paroxetine. Any dose adjustment should be guided by clinical effect (tolerability and efficacy). Electroconvulsive Therapy (ECT) There are no clinical studies of the combined use of ECT and paroxetine. Table 9 : Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Paroxetine Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact The concomitant use of SSRIs, including paroxetine, and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Paroxetine is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) , Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Intervention Paroxetine is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide or thioridazine [see Contraindications (4) ]. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of paroxetine and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . The concomitant use of paroxetine with another drug that is highly bound to plasma protein may increase free concentrations of paroxetine or other tightly-bound drugs in plasma . Examples Warfarin Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Clinical Impact Paroxetine is a CYP2D6 inhibitor [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Tamoxifen Clinical Impact Concomitant use of tamoxifen with paroxetine may lead to reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite (endoxifen) and reduced efficacy of tamoxifen Intervention Consider use of an alternative antidepressant with little or no CYP2D6 inhibition [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ]. Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Protein : Monitor for adverse reactions and reduce dosage of paroxetine or other protein-bound drugs (e.g., warfarin) as warranted. ( 7 ) Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 : Reduce dosage of drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 as warranted. ( 7 ) Concomitant use with tamoxifen : Consider use of an alternative antidepressant with little or no CYP2D6 inhibition. Intervention Paroxetine is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration (2.5), Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . Intervention Paroxetine is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide or thioridazine [see Contraindications (4)]. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of paroxetine and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . John’s Wort Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants) Clinical Impact Theconcurrentuse of anantiplateletagentoranticoagulant with paroxetine maypotentiate the risk ofbleeding. Intervention Informpatientsofthe increasedrisk of bleedingassociated with the concomitantuse ofparoxetine andantiplateletagentsand anticoagulants. For patients takingwarfarin,carefullymonitor the international normalizedratio [see Warningsand Precautions(5.5)] . Examples aspirin, clopidogrel, heparin,warfarin Drugs Highly Bound toPlasmaProtein Clinical Impact Paroxetine is highlybound to plasma protein. The concomitant useof paroxetine with another drugthat ishighlyboundto plasma protein may increasefreeconcentrationsofparoxetine or othertightly-bound drugs in plasma . Intervention Monitor foradversereactionsandreducedosageof paroxetine orother protein-bound drugs as warranted. Examples warfarin Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Clinical Impact Paroxetine is a CYP2D6inhibitor [see Clinical Pharmacology(12.3)]. The concomitant use of paroxetine with a CYP2D6substrate may increasetheexposure of the CYP2D6substrate. Intervention Decreasethe dosage of a CYP2D6substrate if neededwith concomitantparoxetine use.Conversely,anincreaseindosageof a CYP2D6substratemay be needed if paroxetine is discontinued. Examples propafenone,flecainide,atomoxetine, desipramine, dextromethorphan,metoprolol,nebivolol,perphenazine,tolterodine,venlafaxine, risperidone. Tamoxifen Clinical Impact Concomitant use oftamoxifen with paroxetine maylead to reduced plasmaconcentrations ofthe active metabolite (endoxifen)andreducedefficacyoftamoxifen. Intervention Consideruse ofanalternativeantidepressantwithlittle or noCYP2D6 inhibition [seeWarningsand Precautions(5.11)]. Fosamprenavir/Ritonavir Clinical Impact Co-administration of fosamprenavir/ritonavir withparoxetine significantly decreased plasmalevels of paroxetine. Intervention Anydose adjustment should be guidedbyclinicaleffect (tolerabilityandefficacy). Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Protein : Monitor for adverse reactions and reduce dosage of paroxetine oral suspension or other protein-bound drugs (e.g., warfarin) as warranted. (7) Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 : Reduce dosage of drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 as warranted. (7) Concomitant use with tamoxifen : Consider use of an alternative antidepressant with little or no CYP2D6 inhibition. (5.11, 7) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted with paroxetine capsules. Paroxetine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Co-administration of paroxetine capsules can alter concentrations of other drugs that are metabolized by CYP2D6. Consider potential drug interactions prior to and during therapy ( 5.3 , 7.1 , 7.3 ). See Full Prescribing Information for a list of clinically significant drug interactions ( 7.1 , 7.2 , 7.3 ) 7.1 Potential for Paroxetine Capsules to Affect Other Drugs Paroxetine is a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor. Clinical drug interaction studies have been performed with substrates of CYP2D6 and show that paroxetine can inhibit the metabolism of drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Table 2 contains examples of drugs with a metabolism that may be affected by co-administration with paroxetine capsules. Table 2 Effects of Paroxetine on Other Drugs Concomitant Drug Name Effect of Paroxetine on Other Drugs Clinical Recommendations Thioridazine Increased plasma concentrations of thioridazine Potential QTc prolongation Concomitant use of thioridazine and paroxetine capsules is contraindicated. Pimozide Increased plasma concentrations of pimozide. Potential QTc prolongation Concomitant use of pimozide and paroxetine capsules is contraindicated. Tamoxifen Reduced plasma concentrations of active tamoxifen metabolite Consider avoiding concomitant use of tamoxifen and paroxetine capsules. Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCA) (e.g., Desipramine) Increased plasma concentrations and elimination half-life Plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored and the dose of TCA may need to be reduced if a TCA is co-administered with paroxetine capsules. Monitor tolerability. Risperidone Increased plasma concentrations of risperidone A lower dosage of risperidone may be necessary (see the Full Prescribing Information for risperidone). Atomoxetine Increased exposure of atomoxetine A lower dosage of atomoxetine may be necessary (see Full Prescribing Information for atomoxetine). Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Protein (e.g., Warfarin) Increased free plasma concentrations The dosage of warfarin may need to be reduced. Monitor tolerability and the International Normalized Ratio. Digoxin Decreased plasma concentrations of digoxin Dosage of digoxin may need to be increased. Monitor digoxin concentrations and clinical effect. Theophylline Increased plasma concentrations of theophylline Dosage of theophylline may need to be decreased. Monitor theophylline concentrations and tolerability. Use caution if co-administering paroxetine capsules with other drugs that are metabolized by CYP2D6, including nortriptyline, amitriptyline, imipramine, desipramine, fluoxetine, phenothiazines, risperidone, and Type 1C antiarrhythmics (e.g., propafenone, flecainide, and encainide). 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Paroxetine Capsules The metabolism and pharmacokinetics of paroxetine may be affected by the induction and inhibition of drug metabolizing enzymes such as CYP2D6. Table 3 contains a list of drugs that may affect the pharmacokinetics of paroxetine capsules when administered concomitantly [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Table 3 Effects of Other Drugs on Paroxetine Concomitant Drug Name Effect of Concomitant Drug on Paroxetine Clinical Recommendations Phenobarbital Decreased paroxetine exposure No dose adjustment for paroxetine capsules. Monitor clinical effect of paroxetine capsules. Phenytoin Decreased paroxetine exposure Fosamprenavir/Ritonavir Decreased plasma concentration of paroxetine Cimetidine Increased plasma concentration of paroxetine Use caution if co-administering paroxetine capsules with other drugs that inhibit CYP2D6 (e.g., quinidine). 7.3 Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Serious adverse reactions such as serotonin syndrome have been reported in patients receiving a concomitant SSRI and MAOI, in patients started on an SSRI who recently received an MAOI and in patients started on an MAOI who recently received an SSRI. Therefore, concomitant use of MAOIs with paroxetine capsules or use of paroxetine capsules and an MAOI within 14 days of each other is contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Contraindications (4.1) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . Serotonergic Drugs If concomitant use of paroxetine capsules with other serotonergic drugs (e.g., other SNRIs, SSRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, tryptophan, buspirone, amphetamines, and St. John’s Wort) is clinically warranted, consider the increased risk of serotonin syndrome and carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . An interaction between paroxetine and tryptophan may occur when they are co-administered. Consequently, concomitant use of paroxetine capsules with tryptophan is not recommended. Drugs that Interfere with Hemostasis (e.g., NSAIDs, Aspirin, and Warfarin) Altered anticoagulant effects, including increased bleeding, have been reported when SSRIs are co-administered with NSAIDs, aspirin, and warfarin or other drugs that affect coagulation. There may be a pharmacodynamic interaction between paroxetine and warfarin that causes an increased bleeding diathesis despite unaltered prothrombin time. Carefully monitor patients receiving warfarin therapy when paroxetine capsules is initiated or discontinued [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] . Consequently, concomitant use of paroxetine with tryptophan is not recommended (see WARNINGS, Serotonin Syndrome ). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors See CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS . John's Wort (see WARNINGS, Serotonin Syndrome ). The concomitant use of paroxetine with other SSRIs, SNRIs or tryptophan is not recommended (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions, Tryptophan ). Since there is little clinical experience, the concomitant administration of paroxetine and warfarin should be undertaken with caution (see PRECAUTIONS , Drugs That Interfere With Hemostasis ). If concomitant use of paroxetine with a triptan is clinically warranted, careful observation of the patient is advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases (see WARNINGS, Serotonin Syndrome ). Therefore, when these drugs are administered concurrently, dosage adjustment of paroxetine after the 20-mg starting dose should be guided by clinical effect. The effect of paroxetine on cimetidine's pharmacokinetics was not studied. When a single oral 30-mg dose of paroxetine was administered at phenobarbital steady state (100 mg once daily for 14 days), paroxetine AUC and T½ were reduced (by an average of 25% and 38%, respectively) compared to paroxetine administered alone. Phenytoin When a single oral 30-mg dose of paroxetine was administered at phenytoin steady state (300 mg once daily for 14 days), paroxetine AUC and T½ were reduced (by an average of 50% and 35%, respectively) compared to paroxetine administered alone. In a separate study, when a single oral 300-mg dose of phenytoin was administered at paroxetine steady state (30 mg once daily for 14 days), phenytoin AUC was slightly reduced (12% on average) compared to phenytoin administered alone. No initial dosage adjustments are considered necessary when these drugs are coadministered; any subsequent adjustments should be guided by clinical effect (see ADVERSE REACTIONS, Postmarketing Reports ). At steady state, when the CYP2D6 pathway is essentially saturated, paroxetine clearance is governed by alternative P 450 isozymes that, unlike CYP2D6, show no evidence of saturation (see PRECAUTIONS, Tricyclic Antidepressants [TCAs] ). Plasma TCA concentrations may need to be monitored, and the dose of TCA may need to be reduced, if a TCA is coadministered with paroxetine (see PRECAUTIONS, Drugs Metabolized by Cytochrome CYP2D6 ) . Procyclidine Daily oral dosing of paroxetine (30 mg once daily) increased steady-state AUC 0-24 , C max , and C min values of procyclidine (5 mg oral once daily) by 35%, 37% and 67%, respectively, compared to procyclidine alone at steady state. The effects of propranolol on paroxetine have not been evaluated (see ADVERSE REACTIONS, Postmarketing Reports ).

=== DEXMETHYLPHENIDATE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE AZSTARYS is indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) in patients 6 years of age and older. Limitations of Use The use of AZSTARYS is not recommended in pediatric patients younger than 6 years of age because they had higher plasma exposure and a higher incidence of adverse reactions (e.g., weight loss) than patients 6 years and older at the same dosage [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )]. AZSTARYS is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) in patients 6 years of age and older. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use The use of AZSTARYS is not recommended in pediatric patients younger than 6 years of age because they had higher plasma exposure and a higher incidence of adverse reactions (e.g., weight loss) than patients 6 years and older at the same dosage (5.7, 8.4). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release is indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) ( 1 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets is indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) [see Clinical Studies (14)]. Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) (1). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets are a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) ( 1 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Focalin XR is indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . Limitations of Use The use of Focalin XR is not recommended in pediatric patients younger than 6 years of age because they had higher plasma exposure and a higher incidence of adverse reactions (e.g., weight loss) than patients 6 years and older at the same dosage [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )]. Focalin XR is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) ( 1 ). Limitations of Use The use of Focalin XR is not recommended in pediatric patients younger than 6 years of age because they had higher plasma exposure and a higher incidence of adverse reactions (e.g., weight loss) than patients 6 years and older at the same dosage ( 5.7 , 8.4 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Focalin is indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . Focalin is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) ( 1 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules is indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) in patients aged 6 years and older
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Pediatric Patients 6 to 12 years : Recommended starting dosage is 39.2 mg/7.8 mg orally once daily in the morning. Dosage may be increased to 52.3 mg/10.4 mg daily or decreased to 26.1 mg/5.2 mg daily after one week. Maximum recommended dosage is 52.3 mg/10.4 mg once daily. ( 2.2 ) Adults and Pediatric Patients 13 to 17 years: Recommended starting dosage is 39.2 mg/7.8 mg orally once daily in the morning. Increase the dosage after one week to 52.3 mg/10.4 mg once daily depending on response and tolerability. ( 2.2 ) Administer with or without food. ( 2.3 ) Swallow capsules whole or open and sprinkle onto applesauce or add to water. ( 2.3 ) To avoid substitution errors and overdosage, do not substitute for other methylphenidate products on a milligram-per-milligram basis. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Pretreatment Screening Prior to treating patients with AZSTARYS, assess: for the presence of cardiac disease (i.e., perform a careful history, family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia, and physical exam) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. the family history and clinically evaluate patients for motor or verbal tics or Tourette’s syndrome before initiating AZSTARYS [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )]. 2.2 Recommended Dosage Pediatric Patients 6 to 12 years of age The recommended starting dosage of AZSTARYS is 39.2 mg serdexmethylphenidate/7.8 mg dexmethylphenidate once daily in the morning. The dosage may be increased after one week to a dosage of 52.3 mg serdexmethylphenidate/10.4 mg dexmethylphenidate per day, or decreased after one week to a dosage of 26.1 mg serdexmethylphenidate/5.2 mg dexmethylphenidate per day, depending on response and tolerability. Maximum recommended dosage is 52.3 mg serdexmethylphendiate/10.4 mg dexmethyphenidate once daily. Adults and Pediatric Patients 13 to 17 years of age The recommended starting dosage of AZSTARYS is 39.2 mg serdexmethylphenidate/7.8 mg dexmethylphenidate once daily in the morning. Increase the dosage after one week to a dosage of 52.3 mg serdexmethylphenidate/10.4 mg dexmethylphenidate per day, depending on response and tolerability. Maximum recommended dosage is 52.3 mg serdexmethylphenidate/10.4 mg dexmethylphenidate once daily. 2.3 Administration Instructions Administer AZSTARYS orally once daily in the morning with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . AZSTARYS capsules may be taken whole, or opened and the entire contents sprinkled into 50 mL of water or over 2 tablespoons of applesauce. Consume all the drug/food mixture immediately or within 10 minutes of mixing; do not store for future use [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.4 Switching from Other Methylphenidate Products If switching from other methylphenidate products, discontinue that treatment, and titrate with AZSTARYS using the titration schedule described above. Do not substitute AZSTARYS for other methylphenidate products on a milligram-per-milligram basis because these products have different pharmacokinetic profiles from AZSTARYS and may have different methylphenidate base composition [see Description ( 11 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.5 Dosage Reduction and Discontinuation If paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse reactions occur, reduce dosage or, if necessary, discontinue AZSTARYS. If improvement is not observed after appropriate dosage adjustment over a one-month period, discontinue AZSTARYS. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Patients new to methylphenidate: Recommended starting dose is 5 mg once daily for pediatric patients and 10 mg once daily for adults with or without food in the morning ( 2.2) . Patients currently on methylphenidate: Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release dosage is half (1/2) the current total daily dosage of methylphenidate ( 2.2 ). Patients currently on dexmethylphenidate immediate-release tablets: Give the same daily dose of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release ( 2.2 ). Titrate weekly in increments of 5 mg in pediatric patients and 10 mg in adult patients ( 2.2 ). Maximum recommended daily dose: 30 mg in pediatric patients and 40 mg in adults ( 2.2 ). Capsules may be swallowed whole or opened and the entire contents sprinkled on applesauce ( 2.3 ). 2.1 Pretreatment Screening Prior to treating patients with dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release, assess: for the presence of cardiac disease (i.e., perform a careful history, family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia, and physical exam) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. the family history and clinically evaluate patients for motor or verbal tics or Tourette’s syndrome before initiating dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )]. 2.2 Recommended Dosage Patients New to Methylphenidate The recommended starting dosage of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release for patients who are not currently taking dexmethylphenidate or racemic methylphenidate, or for patients who are on stimulants other than methylphenidate are: Pediatric patients: Start with 5 mg orally once daily in the morning with or without food. Adult patients: Start with 10 mg orally once daily in the morning with or without food. Patients Currently on Methylphenidate The recommended starting dose of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release for patients currently using methylphenidate is half (1/2) the total daily dose of racemic methylphenidate. Patients currently using dexmethylphenidate immediate-release tablets may be given the same daily dose of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release. Titration Schedule The dose may be titrated weekly in increments of 5 mg in pediatric patients and 10 mg in adult patients. The dose should be individualized according to the needs and response of the patient. Daily doses above 30 mg in pediatrics and 40 mg in adults have not been studied and are not recommended. 2.3 Administration Instructions Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release is administered orally and may be taken whole or the capsule may be opened and the entire contents sprinkled onto applesauce. If the patient is using the sprinkled administration method, the sprinkled applesauce should be consumed immediately; it should not be stored. Patients should take the applesauce with sprinkled beads in its entirety without chewing. The dose of a single capsule should not be divided. The contents of the entire capsule should be taken, and patients should not take anything less than one capsule per day. 2.4 Dosage Reduction and Discontinuation If paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse reactions occur, reduce the dosage, or if necessary, discontinue dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release. If improvement is not observed after appropriate dosage adjustment over a one-month period, the drug should be discontinued. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer orally twice daily, 4 hours apart with or without food (2). For patients new to methylphenidate: Recommend starting dose of 5 mg once daily (2.5 mg twice daily) (2.2). For patients currently taking methylphenidate: Initiate dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets therapy with half (1/2) the current total daily dose of methylphenidate (2.2). Titrate weekly in increments of 2.5 to 5 mg to a maximum of 20 mg/day (10 mg twice daily) (2.2). 2.1 Pretreatment Screening Prior to treating patients with dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets, assess: for the presence of cardiac disease (i.e., perform a careful history, family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia, and physical exam) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. the family history and clinically evaluate patients for motor or verbal tics or Tourette’s syndrome before initiating Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. 2.2 Recommended Dosage Patients New to Methylphenidate The recommended starting dose of Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets for pediatric patients who are not currently taking racemic methylphenidate, or for patients who are on stimulants other than methylphenidate, is 5 mg daily (2.5 mg twice daily) with or without food. Patients Currently on Methylphenidate The recommended starting dose of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets for pediatric patients currently using methylphenidate is half (1/2) the total daily dose of racemic methylphenidate. Titration Schedule The dose may be titrated weekly in increments of 2.5 to 5 mg to a maximum of 20 mg daily (10 mg twice daily). 2.3 Administration Instructions Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets is administered orally twice daily, at least 4 hours apart. 2.4 Dosage Reduction and Discontinuation If paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse reactions occur, reduce the dosage, or if necessary, discontinue dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer orally twice daily, 4 hours apart with or without food ( 2 ). For patients new to methylphenidate: Recommend starting dose of 5 mg once daily (2.5 mg twice daily) ( 2.2 ). For patients currently taking methylphenidate: Initiate dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets therapy with half (1/2) the current total daily dose of methylphenidate ( 2.2 ). Titrate weekly in increments of 2.5 to 5 mg to a maximum of 20 mg/day (10 mg twice daily) ( 2.2 ). 2.1 Pretreatment Screening Prior to treating patients with dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets, assess: for the presence of cardiac disease (i.e., perform a careful history, family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia, and physical exam) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . the family history and clinically evaluate patients for motor or verbal tics or Tourette’s syndrome before initiating dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . Titration Schedule The dose may be titrated weekly in increments of 2.5 mg to 5 mg to a maximum of 20 mg daily (10 mg twice daily). 2.3 Administration Instructions Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets are administered orally twice daily, at least 4 hours apart. For patients currently taking methylphenidate: Initiate dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets therapy with half (1/2) the current total daily dose of methylphenidate ( 2.3 ). 2.1 Pretreatment Screening Prior to treating pediatric patients and adults with central nervous system (CNS) stimulants, including dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets, assess for the presence of cardiac disease (i.e., perform a careful history, family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia, and physical exam) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing, and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy. Maintain careful prescription records, educate patients about abuse, monitor for signs of abuse and overdose, and periodically reevaluate the need for dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets use [see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.2 , 9.3 )] . 2.2 Pediatric Patients With Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder Patients New to Methylphenidate The recommended starting dose of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets for pediatric patients who are not currently taking racemic methylphenidate, or for patients who are on stimulants other than methylphenidate, is 5 mg daily (2.5 mg twice daily) with or without food. Maintenance/Extended Treatment Pharmacological treatment of ADHD may be needed for extended periods. Periodically reevaluate the long-term use of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets and adjust dosage as needed. 2.4 Dose Reduction and Discontinuation If paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse reactions occur, reduce the dosage, or if necessary, discontinue dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Patients new to methylphenidate: Recommended starting dose is 5 mg once daily for pediatric patients and 10 mg once daily for adults with or without food in the morning ( 2.2 ). • Patients currently on methylphenidate: Focalin XR dosage is half (1/2) the current total daily dosage of methylphenidate ( 2.2 ). • Patients currently on Focalin (dexmethylphenidate) immediate-release tablets: Give the same daily dose of Focalin XR ( 2.2 ). • Titrate weekly in increments of 5 mg in pediatric patients and 10 mg in adult patients ( 2.2 ). • Maximum recommended daily dose: 30 mg in pediatric patients and 40 mg in adults ( 2.2 ). • Capsules may be swallowed whole or opened and the entire contents sprinkled on applesauce ( 2.3 ). 2.1 Pretreatment Screening Prior to treating patients with Focalin XR, assess: • for the presence of cardiac disease (i.e., perform a careful history, family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia, and physical exam) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . • the family history and clinically evaluate patients for motor or verbal tics or Tourette’s syndrome before initiating Focalin XR [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . 2.2 Recommended Dosage Patients New to Methylphenidate The recommended starting dosage of Focalin XR for patients who are not currently taking dexmethylphenidate or racemic methylphenidate, or for patients who are on stimulants other than methylphenidate are: • Pediatric patients: Start with 5 mg orally once daily in the morning with or without food. • Adult patients: Start with 10 mg orally once daily in the morning with or without food. Patients Currently on Methylphenidate The recommended starting dose of Focalin XR for patients currently using methylphenidate is half (1/2) the total daily dose of racemic methylphenidate. Patients currently using Focalin (dexmethylphenidate) immediate-release tablets may be given the same daily dose of Focalin XR. 2.3 Administration Instructions Focalin XR is administered orally and may be taken whole or the capsule may be opened and the entire contents sprinkled onto applesauce. 2.4 Dosage Reduction and Discontinuation If paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse reactions occur, reduce the dosage, or if necessary, discontinue Focalin XR. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer orally twice daily, 4 hours apart with or without food ( 2 ). • For patients new to methylphenidate: Recommend starting dose of 5 mg once daily (2.5 mg twice daily) ( 2.2 ). • For patients currently taking methylphenidate: Initiate Focalin therapy with half (1/2) the current total daily dose of methylphenidate ( 2.2 ). • Titrate weekly in increments of 2.5 to 5 mg to a maximum of 20 mg/day (10 mg twice daily) ( 2.2 ). 2.1 Pretreatment Screening Prior to treating patients with Focalin, assess: • for the presence of cardiac disease (i.e., perform a careful history, family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia, and physical exam) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . • the family history and clinically evaluate patients for motor or verbal tics or Tourette’s syndrome before initiating Focalin [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . 2.2 Recommended Dosage Patients New to Methylphenidate The recommended starting dose of Focalin for pediatric patients who are not currently taking racemic methylphenidate, or for patients who are on stimulants other than methylphenidate, is 5 mg daily (2.5 mg twice daily) with or without food. Patients Currently on Methylphenidate The recommended starting dose of Focalin for pediatric patients currently using methylphenidate is half (1/2) the total daily dose of racemic methylphenidate. 2.3 Administration Instructions Focalin is administered orally twice daily, at least 4 hours apart. 2.4 Dosage Reduction and Discontinuation If paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse reactions occur, reduce the dosage, or if necessary, discontinue Focalin. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules is for oral administration once daily in the morning. Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules may be swallowed as whole capsules or alternatively may be administered by sprinkling the capsule contents on a small amount of applesauce (see specific instructions below). Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules and/or their contents should not be crushed, chewed, or divided. The capsules may be carefully opened and the beads sprinkled over a spoonful of applesauce. The mixture of drug and applesauce should be consumed immediately in its entirety. The drug and applesauce mixture should not be stored for future use. Dosage should be individualized according to the needs and responses of the patient. Patients new to methylphenidate: Recommended starting dose is 5 mg once daily for pediatric patients and 10 mg once daily for adults with or without food in the morning ( 2.2 ). Patients currently on methylphenidate: Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules dosage is half the current total daily dosage of methylphenidate ( 2.2 ). Patients currently on dexmethylphenidate immediate-release tablets: Give the same daily dose of Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules ( 2.2 ) Titrate weekly in increments of 5 mg in pediatric patients and 10 mg in adult patients ( 2.2 ). 2.1 Pretreatment Screening Prior to treating pediatric patients and adults with central nervous system (CNS) stimulants including Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules, assess for the presence of cardiac disease (i.e., perform a careful history including family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia, and physical examination) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Maintain careful prescription records, educate patients about abuse, monitor for signs of abuse and overdose, and periodically re-evaluate the need for Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules use [see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Drug Abuse and Dependence (9) ] . 2.2 Treatment of ADHD Patients New to Methylphenidate The recommended starting dosage of Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules for patients who are not currently taking dexmethylphenidate or racemic methylphenidate, or for patients who are on stimulants other than methylphenidate are: Pediatric patients: Start with 5 mg orally once daily in the morning with or without food. Patients Currently on Methylphenidate The recommended starting dose of Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules for patients currently using methylphenidate is half the total daily dose of racemic methylphenidate. Patients currently using dexmethylphenidate immediate-release tablets may be given the same daily dose of Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules. Periodically reevaluate the long-term use of Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules and adjust dosage as needed. 2.3 Administration Instructions Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules is administered orally and may be taken whole or the capsule may be opened and the entire contents sprinkled onto applesauce. 2.4 Dose Reduction and Discontinuation If paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse reactions occur, reduce the dosage, or if necessary, discontinue Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS AZSTARYS is contraindicated in patients: with known hypersensitivity to serdexmethylphenidate, methylphenidate, or other components of AZSTARYS. Bronchospasm, rash, and pruritus have been reported in patients who received AZSTARYS. Hypersensitivity reactions such as angioedema and anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients treated with other methylphenidate products [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . receiving concomitant treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), or within 14 days following discontinuation of treatment with an MAOI, because of the risk of hypertensive crisis [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . Known hypersensitivity to serdexmethylphenidate, methylphenidate, or product components. ( 4 ) Concurrent treatment with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI), or use of an MAOI within the preceding 14 days. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other components of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release. Hypersensitivity reactions, such as angioedema and anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients treated with methylphenidate [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. Concomitant treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days following discontinuation of treatment with an MAOI, because of the risk of hypertensive crises [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other components of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release ( 4 ). Concurrent treatment with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI), or use of an MAOI within the preceding 14 days ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other components of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets. Hypersensitivity reactions, such as angioedema and anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients treated with methylphenidate [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)] . Concomitant treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), or within 14 days following discontinuation of treatment with an MAOI, because of the risk of hypertensive crises [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] . Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other components of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets (4). Concurrent treatment with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI), or use of an MAOI within the preceding 14 days (4). Hypersensitivity reactions, such as angioedema and anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients treated with methylphenidate [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . Concomitant treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), or within 14 days following discontinuation of treatment with an MAOI, because of the risk of hypertensive crises [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other components of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other components of Focalin XR. • Concomitant treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days following discontinuation of treatment with an MAOI, because of the risk of hypertensive crises [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . • Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other components of Focalin XR ( 4 ). • Concurrent treatment with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI), or use of an MAOI within the preceding 14 days ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other components of Focalin. • Concomitant treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), or within 14 days following discontinuation of treatment with an MAOI, because of the risk of hypertensive crises [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . • Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other components of Focalin ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other components of Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules. Hypersensitivity reactions such as angioedema and anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients treated with methylphenidate [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . Concomitant treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or within 14 days following discontinuation of treatment with an MAOI, because of the risk of hypertensive crises [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other components of Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules ( 4 ) Concurrent treatment with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI), or use of an MAOI within the preceding 14 days ( 4 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antihypertensive Drugs: Monitor blood pressure. Adjust dosage of antihypertensive drug as needed. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Clinically Important Interactions with AZSTARYS Table 1 presents clinically important drug interactions with AZSTARYS. Table 1: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with AZSTARYS Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact Concomitant use of MAOIs and CNS stimulants, including AZSTARYS, can cause hypertensive crisis. Potential outcomes include death, stroke, myocardial infarction, aortic dissection, ophthalmological complications, eclampsia, pulmonary edema, and renal failure [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Intervention Do not administer AZSTARYS concomitantly with MAOIs or within 14 days after discontinuing MAOI treatment [see Contraindications ( 4 )] Antihypertensive Drugs Clinical Impact AZSTARYS may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Intervention Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dosage of the antihypertensive drug, as needed. Halogenated Anesthetics Clinical Impact Concomitant use of halogenated anesthetics and AZSTARYS may increase the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery. Intervention Avoid use of AZSTARYS in patients being treated with anesthetics on the day of surgery. Risperidone Clinical Impact Combined use of methylphenidate with risperidone when there is a change, whether an increase or decrease, in dosage of either or both medications, may increase the risk of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS). Intervention Monitor for signs of EPS. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antihypertensive Drugs : Monitor blood pressure. Adjust dosage of antihypertensive drug as needed ( 7.1 ). 7.1 Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-Release Table 5 presents clinically important drug interactions with dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release. Table 5: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-Release Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact Concomitant use of MAOIs and CNS stimulants, including dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release, can cause hypertensive crisis. Intervention Concomitant use of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release with MAOIs or within 14 days after discontinuing MAOI treatment is contraindicated. Antihypertensive Drugs Clinical Impact Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Intervention Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dosage of the antihypertensive drug as needed. Halogenated Anesthetics Clinical Impact Concomitant use of halogenated anesthetics and dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release may increase the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery. Intervention Avoid use of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended-release in patients being treated with anesthetics on the day of surgery. Risperidone Clinical Impact Combined use of methylphenidate with risperidone when there is a change, whether an increase or decrease, in dosage of either or both medications, may increase the risk of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) Intervention Monitor for signs of EPS Adjust dosage of antihypertensive drug as needed (7.1). See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION and Medication Guide. Revised: 11/2024 7.1 Clinically Important Drug Interactions With Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets Table 2 presents clinically important drug interactions with dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets. Table 2: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact Concomitant use of MAOIs and CNS stimulants, including dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets, can cause hypertensive crisis. Potential outcomes include death, stroke, myocardial infarction, aortic dissection, ophthalmological complications, eclampsia, pulmonary edema, and renal failure [see Contraindications (4)] . Intervention Concomitant use of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets with MAOIs or within 14 days after discontinuing MAOI treatment is contraindicated. Examples selegiline, tranylcypromine, isocarboxazid, phenelzine, linezolid, methylene blue Antihypertensive Drugs Clinical Impact Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Intervention Adjust the dosage of the antihypertensive drug as needed. Examples Potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics, calcium channel blockers, angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs), beta blockers, centrally acting alpha-2 receptor agonists Halogenated Anesthetics Clinical Impact Concomitant use of halogenated anesthetics and dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets may increase the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery. Intervention Monitor blood pressure and avoid use of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets in patients being treated with anesthetics on the day of surgery. Examples halothane, isoflurane, enflurane, desflurane, sevoflurane Risperidone Clinical Impact Combined use of methylphenidate with risperidone when there is a change, whether an increase or decrease, in dosage of either or both medications, may increase the risk of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) Intervention Monitor for signs of EPS 7.1 Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Tablets Table 2 presents clinically important drug interactions with dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets. Antihypertensive Drugs Clinical impact Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Halogenated Anesthetics Clinical impact Concomitant use of halogenated anesthetics and dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets may increase the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery. Halogenated Anesthetics: Avoid use of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets on the day of surgery if halogenated anesthetics will be used ( 7.1 ). Potential outcomes include death, stroke, myocardial infarction, aortic dissection, ophthalmological complications, eclampsia, pulmonary edema, and renal failure [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. Examples selegiline, tranylcypromine, isocarboxazid, phenelzine, linezolid, methylene blue Antihypertensive Drugs Clinical Impact Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride tablets may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Antihypertensive Drugs: Monitor blood pressure. 7.1 Clinically Important Drug Interactions With Focalin XR Table 5 presents clinically important drug interactions with Focalin XR. Table 5: Clinically Important Drug Interactions With Focalin XR Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact Concomitant use of MAOIs and CNS stimulants, including Focalin XR, can cause hypertensive crisis. Intervention Concomitant use of Focalin XR with MAOIs or within 14 days after discontinuing MAOI treatment is contraindicated. Antihypertensive Drugs Clinical impact Focalin XR may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Halogenated Anesthetics Clinical impact Concomitant use of halogenated anesthetics and Focalin XR may increase the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery. Intervention Avoid use of Focalin XR in patients being treated with anesthetics on the day of surgery. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Antihypertensive Drugs : Monitor blood pressure. 7.1 Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Focalin Table 2 presents clinically important drug interactions with Focalin. Table 2: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Focalin Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical impact Concomitant use of MAOIs and CNS stimulants, including Focalin, can cause hypertensive crisis. Intervention Concomitant use of Focalin with MAOIs or within 14 days after discontinuing MAOI treatment is contraindicated. Antihypertensive Drugs Clinical impact Focalin may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Halogenated Anesthetics Clinical impact Concomitant use of halogenated anesthetics and Focalin may increase the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery. Intervention Monitor blood pressure and avoid use of Focalin in patients being treated with anesthetics on the day of surgery. Halogenated Anesthetics: Avoid use of Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules on the day of surgery if halogenated anesthetics will be used ( 7.1 ). 7.1 Clinically Important Interactions with Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Table 5 presents clinically important drug interactions with Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-release Capsules. Table 5: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) Clinical Impact Concomitant use of MAOIs and CNS stimulants, including Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules, can cause hypertensive crisis. Potential outcomes include death, stroke, myocardial infarction, aortic dissection, ophthalmological complications, eclampsia, pulmonary edema, and renal failure [see Contraindications (4) ] . Intervention Concomitant use of Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules with MAOIs or within 14 days after discontinuing MAOI treatment is contraindicated. Examples selegiline, tranylcypromine, isocarboxazid, phenelzine, linezolid, methylene blue Antihypertensive Drugs Clinical Impact Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Examples Potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics, calcium channel blockers, angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs), beta blockers, centrally acting alpha-2 receptor agonists Halogenated Anesthetics Clinical Impact Concomitant use of halogenated anesthetics and Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules may increase the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery. Intervention Avoid use of Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended-Release Capsules in patients being treated with anesthetics on the day of surgery. Examples halothane, isoflurane, enflurane, desflurane, sevoflurane

=== DIGOXIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Digoxin is a cardiac glycoside indicated for: Treatment of mild to moderate heart failure in adults. ( 1.1 ) Increasing myocardial contractility in pediatric patients with heart failure. ( 1.2 ) Control of resting ventricular rate in patients with chronic atrial fibrillation in adults. ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Heart Failure in Adults Digoxin is indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate heart failure in adults. Digoxin increases left ventricular ejection fraction and improves heart failure symptoms as evidenced by improved exercise capacity and decreased heart failure-related hospitalizations and emergency care, while having no effect on mortality. Where possible, digoxin should be used in combination with a diuretic and an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. 1.2 Heart Failure in Pediatric Patients Digoxin increases myocardial contractility in pediatric patients with heart failure. 1.3 Atrial Fibrillation in Adults Digoxin is indicated for the control of ventricular response rate in adult patients with chronic atrial fibrillation. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Digoxin is a cardiac glycoside indicated for: • Treatment of mild to moderate heart failure in adults (1.1) . • Increasing myocardial contractility in pediatric patients with heart failure (1.2). • Control of resting ventricular rate in patients with chronic atrial fibrillation in adults (1.3). 1.1 Heart Failure in Adults Digoxin is indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate heart failure in adults. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Digoxin is a cardiac glycoside indicated in adults for the treatment of mild to moderate heart failure and for the control of resting ventricular rate in patients with chronic atrial fibrillation. ( 1.1 , 1.3 ) In pediatric patients with heart failure, digoxin is indicated to increase myocardial contractility. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Heart Failure in Adults Digoxin Oral Solution is indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate heart failure. Digoxin increases left ventricular ejection fraction and improves heart failure symptoms as evidenced by increased exercise capacity and decreased heart failure-related hospitalizations and emergency care, while having no effect on mortality. Where possible, digoxin should be used with a diuretic and an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, but an optimal order for starting these three drugs cannot be specified. 1.2 Heart Failure in Pediatric Patients Digoxin is indicated to increase myocardial contractility in pediatric patients with heart failure. 1.3 Atrial Fibrillation in Adults Digoxin Oral Solution is indicated for the control of resting ventricular response rate in patients with chronic atrial fibrillation. Digoxin should not be used for the treatment of multifocal atrial tachycardia. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Digoxin is a cardiac glycoside indicated for: Treatment of mild to moderate heart failure in adults. ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Heart Failure in Adults Digoxin tablets are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate heart failure in adults. Digoxin tablets increases left ventricular ejection fraction and improves heart failure symptoms as evidenced by improved exercise capacity and decreased heart failure-related hospitalizations and emergency care, while having no effect on mortality. Where possible, digoxin tablets should be used in combination with a diuretic and an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. 1.2 Heart Failure in Pediatric Patients Digoxin tablets increases myocardial contractility in pediatric patients with heart failure. 1.3 Atrial Fibrillation in Adults Digoxin tablets are indicated for the control of ventricular response rate in adult patients with chronic atrial fibrillation. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Digoxin Tablets are a cardiac glycoside indicated for: Treatment of mild to moderate heart failure in adults. Digoxin Tablets increase left ventricular ejection fraction and improve heart failure symptoms as evidenced by improved exercise capacity and decreased heart failure-related hospitalizations and emergency care, while having no effect on mortality. 1.2 Heart Failure in Pediatric Patients Digoxin Tablets increase myocardial contractility in pediatric patients with heart failure. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Digoxin injection is a cardiac glycoside indicated for: Treatment of mild to moderate heart failure in adults. ( 1.2 ) Control of resting ventricular rate in adults with chronic atrial fibrillation. ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Heart Failure in Adults Digoxin injection is indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate heart failure in adults. Digoxin injection increases left ventricular ejection fraction and improves heart failure symptoms, as evidenced by improved exercise capacity and decreased heart failure-related hospitalizations and emergency care, while having no effect on mortality. Where possible, digoxin injection should be used in combination with a diuretic and an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. 1.2 Heart Failure in Pediatric Patients Digoxin injection increases myocardial contractility in pediatric patients with heart failure. 1.3 Atrial Fibrillation in Adults Digoxin injection is indicated for the control of ventricular response rate in adult patients with chronic atrial fibrillation. ( 1.1 ) Control of resting ventricular rate in adults with chronic atrial fibrillation. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Heart Failure in Adults Digoxin is indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate heart failure in adults. Digoxin increases left ventricular ejection fraction and improves heart failure symptoms, as evidenced by improved exercise capacity and decreased heart failure-related hospitalizations and emergency care, while having no effect on mortality. 1.2 Atrial Fibrillation in Adults Digoxin is indicated for the control of ventricular response rate in adult patients with chronic atrial fibrillation. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Digoxin is a cardiac glycoside indicated for: Treatment of mild to moderate heart failure in adults (1.1) . Increasing myocardial contractility in pediatric patients with heart failure (1.2) . Control of resting ventricular rate in patients with chronic atrial fibrillation in adults (1.3) .
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Digoxin dose is based on patient-specific factors (age, lean body weight, renal function, etc.). See full prescribing information. Monitor for toxicity and therapeutic effect. 2.1 Important Dosing and Administration Information In selecting a digoxin dosing regimen, it is important to consider factors that affect digoxin blood levels (e.g., body weight, age, renal function, concomitant drugs) since toxic levels of digoxin are only slightly higher than therapeutic levels. Dosing can be either initiated with a loading dose followed by maintenance dosing if rapid titration is desired or initiated with maintenance dosing without a loading dose. Consider interruption or reduction in digoxin dose prior to electrical cardioversion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Use digoxin solution to obtain the appropriate dose in infants, young pediatric patients, or patients with very low body weight. 2.2 Loading Dosing Regimen in Adults and Pediatric Patients For adults and pediatric patients if a loading dosage is to be given, administer half the total loading dose initially, then ¼ the loading dose every 6-8 hours twice, with careful assessment of clinical response and toxicity before each dose. The recommended loading dose is displayed in Table 1. Table 1. Recommended Digoxin Oral Loading Dose Age Total Oral Loading Dose (mcg/kg) Administer half the total loading dose initially, then ¼ the loading dose every 6 to 8 hours twice 5 to 10 years 20-45 Adults and pediatric patients over 10 years 10-15 mcg = microgram 2.3 Maintenance Dosing in Adults and Pediatric Patients Over 10 Years Old The maintenance dose is based on lean body weight, renal function, age, and concomitant products [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The recommended starting maintenance dose in adults and pediatric patients over 10 years old with normal renal function is given in Table 2. Doses may be increased every 2 weeks according to clinical response, serum drug levels, and toxicity. Table 2. Recommended Starting Digoxin Maintenance Dosage in Adults and Pediatric Patients Over 10 Years Old Age Total Oral Maintenance Dose, mcg/kg/day (given once daily) Adults and pediatric patients over 10 years 3.4-5.1 mcg = microgram Table 3 provides the recommended (once daily) maintenance dose for adults and pediatric patients over 10 years old (to be given once daily) according to lean body weight and renal function. The doses are based on studies in adult patients with heart failure. Alternatively, the maintenance dose may be estimated by the following formula (peak body stores lost each day through elimination): Total Maintenance Dose = Loading Dose (i.e., Peak Body Stores) x % Daily Loss/100 (% Daily Loss = 14 + Creatinine clearance/5) Reduce the dose of digoxin in patients whose lean weight is an abnormally small fraction of their total body mass because of obesity or edema. Table 3. Recommended Maintenance Dose (in micrograms given once daily) of Digoxin in Pediatric Patients Over 10 Years Old and Adults by Lean Body Weight and by Renal Functiona Corrected Creatinine Clearance b Lean Body Weight d Number of Days Before Steady State Achievedc kg 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 10 mL/min 62.5* 125 125 187.5 187.5 187.5 250 19 20 mL/min 125 125 125 187.5 187.5 250 250 16 30 mL/min 125 125 187.5 187.5 250 250 312.5 14 40 mL/min 125 187.5 187.5 250 250 312.5 312.5 13 50 mL/min 125 187.5 187.5 250 250 312.5 312.5 12 60 mL/min 125 187.5 250 250 312.5 312.5 375 11 70 mL/min 187.5 187.5 250 250 312.5 375 375 10 80 mL/min 187.5 187.5 250 312.5 312.5 375 437.5 9 90 mL/min 187.5 250 250 312.5 375 437.5 437.5 8 100 mL/min 187.5 250 312.5 312.5 375 437.5 500 7 a Doses are rounded to the nearest dose possible using whole digoxin tablets. Recommended doses approximately 30 percent lower than the calculated dose are designated with an *. Monitor digoxin levels in patients receiving these initial doses and increase dose if needed. b For adults , creatinine clearance was corrected to 70-kg body weight or 1.73 m 2 body surface area. If only serum creatinine concentrations (Scr) are available, a corrected Ccr may be estimated in men as (140 - Age)/Scr. For women, this result should be multiplied by 0.85. For pediatric patients, the modified Schwartz equation may be used. The formula is based on height in cm and Scr in mg/dL where k is a constant. Ccr is corrected to 1.73 m2 body surface area. During the first year of life, the value of k is 0.33 for pre-term babies and 0.45 for term infants. The k is 0.55 for pediatric patients and adolescent girls and 0.7 for adolescent boys. GFR (mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) = (k x Height)/Scr c If no loading dose administered. d The doses listed assume average body composition. 2.4 Maintenance Dosing in Pediatric Patients Less Than 10 Years Old The starting maintenance dose for heart failure in pediatric patients less than 10 years old is based on lean body weight, renal function, age, and concomitant products [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The recommended starting maintenance dose for pediatric patients between 5 years and 10 years old is given in Table 4. These recommendations assume the presence of normal renal function. Table 4. Recommended Starting Digoxin Oral Maintenance Dosage in Pediatric Patients between 5 and 10 Years Old Age Oral Maintenance Dose, mcg/kg/dose 5 years to 10 years 3.2-6.4 Twice daily Table 5 provides average daily maintenance dose requirements for pediatric patients between 5 and 10 years old (to be given twice daily) with heart failure based on age, lean body weight, and renal function. Table 5. Recommended Maintenance Dose (in micrograms given TWICE daily) of Digoxin in Pediatric Patients between 5 and 10 Years of Agea Based upon Lean Body Weight and Renal Function a,b Corrected Creatinine Clearancec Lean Body Weight Number of Days Before Steady State Achieved d kg 20 30 40 50 60 10 mL/min - 62.5 62.5* 125 125 19 20 mL/min 62.5 62.5 125 125 125 16 30 mL/min 62.5 62.5* 125 125 187.5 14 40 mL/min 62.5 62.5* 125 187.5 187.5 13 50 mL/min 62.5 125 125 187.5 187.5 12 60 mL/min 62.5 125 125 187.5 250 11 70 mL/min 62.5 125 187.5 187.5 250 10 80 mL/min 62.5* 125 187.5 187.5 250 9 90 mL/min 62.5* 125 187.5 250 250 8 100 mL/min 62.5* 125 187.5 250 312.5 7 a Recommended are doses to be given twice daily. b The doses are rounded to the nearest dose possible using whole digoxin tablets. c The modified Schwartz equation may be used to estimate creatinine clearance. See footnote b under Table 3. d If no loading dose administered. 2.5 Monitoring to Assess Safety, Efficacy, and Therapeutic Blood Levels Monitor for signs and symptoms of digoxin toxicity and clinical response. Adjust dose based on toxicity, efficacy, and blood levels. Serum digoxin levels less than 0.5 ng/mL have been associated with diminished efficacy, while levels above 2 ng/mL have been associated with increased toxicity without increased benefit. Interpret the serum digoxin concentration in the overall clinical context, and do not use an isolated measurement of serum digoxin concentration as the basis for increasing or decreasing the digoxin dose. Serum digoxin concentrations may be falsely elevated by endogenous digoxin-like substances [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ] . If the assay is sensitive to these substances, consider obtaining a baseline digoxin level before starting digoxin and correct post-treatment values by the reported baseline level. Obtain serum digoxin concentrations just before the next scheduled digoxin dose or at least 6 hours after the last dose. The digoxin concentration is likely to be 10-25% lower when sampled right before the next dose (24 hours after dosing) compared to sampling 8 hours after dosing (using once-daily dosing). However, there will be only minor differences in digoxin concentrations using twice daily dosing whether sampling is done at 8 or 12 hours after a dose. 2.6 Switching from Intravenous Digoxin to Oral Digoxin When switching from intravenous to oral digoxin formulations, make allowances for differences in bioavailability when calculating maintenance dosages (see Table 6). Table 6. Comparison of the Systemic Availability and Equivalent Doses of Oral and Intravenous Digoxin Absolute Bioavailability Equivalent Doses (mcg) Digoxin Tablets 60-80% 62.5 125 250 500 Digoxin Intravenous Injection 100% 50 100 200 400 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Digoxin dose is based on patient-specific factors (age, lean body weight, renal function, etc.). Monitor for toxicity and therapeutic effect (2). Consider interruption or reduction in digoxin dose prior to electrical cardioversion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. 2.2 Loading Dosing Regimen in Adults and Pediatric Patients For adults and pediatric patients if a loading dosage is to be given, administer half the total loading dose initially, then ¼ the loading dose every 6 to 8 hours twice, with careful assessment of clinical response and toxicity before each dose. Recommended Digoxin Oral Loading Dose Age Total Oral Loading Dose (mcg/kg) Administer half the total loading dose initially, then 1/4 the loading dose every 6 to 8 hours twice 5 to 10 years 20-45 Adults and pediatric patients over 10 years 10-15 mcg= microgram 2.3 Maintenance Dosing in Adults and Pediatric Patients Over 10 Years Old The maintenance dose is based on lean body weight, renal function, age, and concomitant products [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Recommended Starting Digoxin Maintenance Dosage in Adults and Pediatric Patients Over 10 Years Old Age Total Oral Maintenance Dose, mcg/kg/day (given once daily) Adults and pediatric patients over 10 years 3.4 to 5.1 mcg= microgram Table 3 provides the recommended (once daily) maintenance dose for adults and pediatric patients over 10 years old (to be given once daily) according to lean body weight and renal function. Recommended Maintenance Dose (in micrograms given once daily) of Digoxin in Pediatric Patients Over 10 Years Old and Adults by Lean Body Weight and by Renal Functionª Corrected Creatinine Clearance b Lean Body Weight d Number of days Before Steady State Achieved c kg 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 10 mL/min 62.5* 125 125 187.5 187.5 187.5 250 19 20 mL/min 125 125 125 187.5 187.5 250 250 16 30 mL/min 125 125 187.5 187.5 250 250 312.5 14 40 mL/min 125 187.5 187.5 250 250 312.5 312.5 13 50 mL/min 125 187.5 187.5 250 250 312.5 312.5 12 60 mL/min 125 187.5 250 250 312.5 312.5 375 11 70 mL/min 187.5 187.5 250 250 312.5 375 375 10 80 mL/min 187.5 187.5 250 312.5 312.5 375 437.5 9 90 mL/min 187.5 250 250 312.5 375 437.5 437.5 8 100 mL/min 187.5 250 312.5 312.5 375 437.5 500 7 a Doses are rounded to the nearest dose possible using whole digoxin tablets. b For adults, creatinine clearance was corrected to 70-kg body weight or 1.73 m 2 body surface area. If only serum creatinine concentrations (Scr) are available, a corrected Ccr may be estimated in men as (140 – Age)/Scr. Ccr is corrected to 1.73 m 2 body surface area. 2.4 Maintenance Dosing in Pediatric Patients Less Than 10 Years Old The starting maintenance dose for heart failure in pediatric patients less than 10 years old is based on lean body weight, renal function, age, and concomitant products [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Recommended Starting Digoxin Oral Maintenance Dosage in Pediatric Patients Between 5 years and 10 Years Old Age Oral Maintenance Dose, mcg/kg/day 5 years to 10 years 3.2 to 6.4 Twice daily Table 5 provides average daily maintenance dose requirements for pediatric patients between 5 and 10 years old (to be given twice daily) with heart failure based on age, lean body weight, and renal function. Recommended Maintenance Dose (in micrograms given TWICE daily) of Digoxin in Pediatric Patients between 5 and 10 Years of Age a Based upon Lean Body Weight and Renal Function a,b Corrected Creatinine Clearance c Lean Body Weight Number of Days Before Steady State Acheived d kg 20 30 40 50 60 10 mL/min - 62.5 62.5* 125 125 19 20 mL/min 62.5 62.5 125 125 125 16 30 mL/min 62.5 62.5* 125 125 187.5 14 40 mL/min 62.5 62.5* 125 187.5 187.5 13 50 mL/min 62.5 125 125 187.5 187.5 12 60 mL/min 62.5 125 125 187.5 250 11 70 mL/min 62.5 125 187.5 187.5 250 10 80 mL/min 62.5* 125 187.5 187.5 250 9 90 mL/min 62.5* 125 187.5 250 250 8 100 mL/min 62.5* 125 187.5 250 312.5 7 a Recommended are doses to be given twice daily. b The doses are rounded to the nearest dose possible using digoxin tablets. Serum digoxin concentrations may be falsely elevated by endogenous digoxin-like substances [see Drug Interactions (7.4)]. The digoxin concentration is likely to be 10% to 25% lower when sampled right before the next dose (24 hours after dosing) compared to sampling 8 hours after dosing (using once-daily dosing). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Toxic levels of digoxin are only slightly higher than therapeutic levels. The pharmacokinetics of digoxin are complex and dose determination should take into account patient-specific factors (age, lean body weight, renal function, etc.). ( 2.4 , 2.5 ) Patients should be monitored for toxicity and therapeutic effect and doses should be adjusted, accordingly. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 General Dosing Considerations The dose of digoxin should be based on clinical assessment but individual patient factors should be taken into consideration. Those factors are: • Lean body weight • Renal function • Patient age • Concurrent disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ] • Concomitant medication [see Drug Interactions (7) ] Because the pharmacokinetics of digoxin are complex, and because toxic levels of digoxin are only slightly higher than therapeutic levels, digoxin dosing can be difficult. The recommended approach is to: • estimate the patient’s daily maintenance dose • adjust the estimate to account for patient-specific factors • choose a dosing regimen • decide whether to initiate therapy with a loading dose • monitor the patient for toxicity and for therapeutic effect • adjust the dose Dose titration may be accomplished by either of two general approaches that differ in dosage and frequency of administration, but reach the same total amount of digoxin accumulated in the body. • If rapid titration is considered medically appropriate, administer a loading dose based upon projected peak digoxin body stores. Maintenance dose can be calculated as a percentage of the loading dose. • More gradual titration may be obtained by beginning an appropriate maintenance dose, thus allowing digoxin body stores to accumulate slowly. Steady-state serum digoxin concentrations will be achieved in approximately five half-lives of the drug for the individual patient. Depending upon the patient’s renal function, this will take between 1 and 3 weeks. 2.2 Serum Digoxin Concentrations In general, the dose of digoxin used should be determined on clinical grounds. However, measurement of serum digoxin concentrations can be helpful to the clinician in determining the adequacy of digoxin therapy and in assigning certain probabilities to the likelihood of digoxin intoxication. Studies have shown diminished efficacy at serum levels < 0.5 ng/mL, while levels above 2 ng/mL are associated with increased toxicity without increased benefit. The inotropic effects of digoxin tend to appear at lower concentrations than the electrophysiological effects. Based on retrospective analysis, adverse events may be higher in the upper therapeutic range. Perform sampling of serum concentrations just before the next scheduled dose of the drug. If this is not possible, sample at least 6 hours or later after the last dose, regardless of the route of administration or the formulation used. On a once-daily dosing schedule, the concentration of digoxin will be 10% to 25% lower when sampled at 24 versus 8 hours, depending upon the patient’s renal function. On a twice-daily dosing schedule, there will be only minor differences in serum digoxin concentrations whether sampling is done at 8 or 12 hours after a dose. The serum concentration of digoxin should always be interpreted in the overall clinical context, and an isolated measurement should not be used alone as the basis for increasing or decreasing the dose of the drug. When decision-making is to be guided by serum digoxin levels, the clinician must consider the possibility of reported concentrations that have been falsely elevated by endogenous digoxin-like immunoreactive substances [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ] . If the assay being used is sensitive to these substances, it may be prudent to obtain a baseline measurement before digoxin therapy is started, and correct later values by the reported baseline level. 2.3 Loading Dose Loading doses for each age group are given in Table 1 below. In pediatric patients, if a loading dose is needed, it can be administered with roughly half the total given as the first dose. Additional fractions of this planned total dose may be given at 4- to 8-hour intervals, with careful assessment of clinical response before each additional dose. If the patient’s clinical response necessitates a change from the calculated loading dose of digoxin, then calculation of the maintenance dose should be based upon the amount actually given as the loading dose [see Table 1 and 2 ]. Table 1: Estimate the Loading Dose Age Oral Loading Dose, mcg/kg Premature 20 to 30 Full-Term 25 to 35 1 to 24 months 35 to 60 2 to 5 years 30 to 45 5 to 10 years 20 to 35 Over 10 years 10 to 15 More gradual attainment of digoxin levels can also be accomplished by beginning an appropriate maintenance dose. The range of percentages provided in Table 2 (2.4 Estimate of Daily Maintenance Dose) can be used in calculating this dose for patients with normal renal function. Steady state will be attained after approximately 5 days in subjects with normal renal function. 2.4 Estimate of Daily Maintenance Dose The recommended daily maintenance doses for each age group are given in Table 2 below. Table 2: Estimate of the Daily Maintenance Dose Age Daily Oral Maintenance Dose, mcg/kg/day Dose Regimen, mcg/kg/dose Premature 4.7 to 7.8 2.3 to 3.9 Twice Daily Full-Term 7.5 to 11.3 3.8 to 5.6 Twice Daily 1 to 24 months 11.3 to 18.8 5.6 to 9.4 Twice Daily 2 to 5 years 9.4 to 13.1 4.7 to 6.6 Twice Daily 5 to 10 years 5.6 to 11.3 2.8 to 5.6 Twice Daily Over 10 years 3.0 to 4.5 3.0 to 4.5 Once Daily Dosage guidelines provided are based upon average patient response and substantial individual variation can be expected. Accordingly, dosage selection must be based upon clinical assessment and ultimately therapeutic drug level monitoring of the patient. Divided daily dosing is recommended for pediatric patients under age 10. In the newborn period, renal clearance of digoxin is diminished and suitable dosage adjustments must be made as shown in Tables 1 and 2. Renal clearance is further reduced in the premature infant. Beyond the immediate newborn period, pediatric patients generally require proportionally larger doses than adults on the basis of body weight or body surface area. Pediatric patients over 10 years of age require adult dosages in proportion to their body weight. Some researchers have suggested that infants and young pediatric patients tolerate slightly higher serum concentrations than do adults. For pediatric patients with known or suspected renal dysfunction, lower starting doses should be considered combined with frequent monitoring of digoxin levels. NOTE: The calibrated oral syringe supplied with the 60 mL bottle of digoxin oral solution is not appropriate to measure doses below 0.1 mL. Doses less than 0.1 mL require appropriate methods or measuring devices designed to administer an accurate amount to the patient. 2.5 Adjustment of Dose The body’s handling of digoxin can be affected by many different patient-specific factors. Some of the possible effects are small, so anticipatory dose adjustment might not be required, but others should be considered before initial dosing [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) and Drug Interactions (7) ] . Both adults and pediatric patients with abnormal renal function need to have the dose of digoxin proportionally reduced. Recommended maintenance doses based upon lean body weight and renal function are listed in Table 3 . Developmental changes in pediatric renal function were factored into Table 3. However, age-related and other changes in adult renal function were not. The volume of distribution of digoxin is proportional to lean body weight and doses listed in Table 3 assume average body composition. The dose of digoxin must be reduced in patients whose lean weight is an abnormally small fraction of their total body mass because of obesity or edema. Table 3: Usual Maintenance Dose The doses are rounded to whole numbers. Twice daily dosing is recommended for pediatric patients under 10 years of age. Once daily dosing is recommended for pediatric patients above 10 years of age and adults. Requirements (mcg) of Digoxin Based upon Age, Lean Body Weight and Renal Function Corrected Ccr (mL/min per 70 kg) Ccr is creatinine clearance, corrected to 70 kg body weight or 1.73 m 2 body surface area. For adults , if only serum creatinine concentrations (Scr) are available, a Ccr (corrected to 70 kg body weight) may be estimated in men as (140 – Age)/Scr. Note: This equation cannot be used for estimating creatinine clearance in infants or pediatric patients. For pediatric patients , the modified Schwartz equation may be used as listed below. The formula was based on height in cm and Scr in mg/dL where k is a constant. GFR (mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) = (k x Height)/Scr. Dose to be Given Twice Daily < 10 Years of Age Dose to be Given Once Daily > 10 Years of Age and Adults Number of Days Before Steady State Achieved Lean Body Weight Lean Body Weight kg lb 5 11 10 22 20 44 30 66 40 88 50 110 60 132 40 88 50 110 60 132 70 154 80 176 90 198 100 220 10 10 20 40 60 80 100 120 80 100 120 140 160 180 200 19 20 11 23 45 68 90 113 135 90 113 135 158 180 203 225 16 30 13 25 50 75 100 125 150 100 125 150 175 200 225 250 14 40 14 28 55 83 110 138 165 110 138 165 193 220 248 275 13 50 15 30 60 90 120 150 180 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 12 60 16 33 65 98 130 163 195 130 163 195 228 260 293 325 11 70 18 35 70 105 140 175 210 140 175 210 245 280 315 350 10 80 19 38 75 113 150 188 225 150 188 225 263 300 338 375 9 90 20 40 80 120 160 200 240 160 200 240 280 320 360 400 8 100 21 43 85 128 170 213 255 170 213 255 298 340 383 425 7 Determination of the target dose in milliliters of Digoxin Oral Solution based on body weight is shown in Table 4 . Provided is the volume required per dose, NOT per day. Table 4: Dose a in Milliliters Target Dose in mcg/kg Volume to be Given in mL b 2 3 4 5 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 30 Weight in kg 2 0.08 b 0.12 b 0.16 b 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.6 0.7 0.8 1.2 3 0.12 b 0.18 b 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.8 4 0.16 b 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.1 1.3 1.4 1.6 2.4 5 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 2.0 3.0 6 0.2 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.7 1.9 2.2 2.4 3.6 7 0.3 0.4 0.6 0.7 0.8 1.1 1.4 1.7 2.0 2.2 2.5 2.8 4.2 8 0.3 0.5 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.3 1.6 1.9 2.2 2.6 2.9 3.2 4.8 9 0.4 0.5 0.7 0.9 1.1 1.4 1.8 2.2 2.5 2.9 3.2 3.6 5.4 10 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.6 2.0 2.4 2.8 3.2 3.6 4.0 6.0 11 0.4 0.7 0.9 1.1 1.3 1.8 2.2 2.6 3.1 3.5 4.0 4.4 6.6 12 0.5 0.7 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.9 2.4 2.9 3.4 3.8 4.3 4.8 7.2 13 0.5 0.8 1.0 1.3 1.6 2.1 2.6 3.1 3.6 4.2 4.7 5.2 7.8 14 0.6 0.8 1.1 1.4 1.7 2.2 2.8 3.4 3.9 4.5 5.0 5.6 8.4 15 0.6 0.9 1.2 1.5 1.8 2.4 3.0 3.6 4.2 4.8 5.4 6.0 9.0 20 0.8 1.2 1.6 2.0 2.4 3.2 4.0 4.8 5.6 6.4 7.2 8.0 12.0 30 1.2 1.8 2.4 3.0 3.6 4.8 6.0 7.2 8.4 9.6 10.8 12.0 18.0 40 1.6 2.4 3.2 4.0 4.8 6.4 8.0 9.6 11.2 12.8 14.4 16.0 24.0 50 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.0 16.0 18.0 20.0 30.0 60 2.4 3.6 4.8 6.0 7.2 9.6 12.0 14.4 16.8 19.2 21.6 24.0 36.0 70 2.8 4.2 5.6 7.0 8.4 11.2 14.0 16.8 19.6 22.4 25.2 28.0 42.0 80 3.2 4.8 6.4 8.0 9.6 12.8 16.0 19.2 22.4 25.6 28.8 32.0 48.0 90 3.6 5.4 7.2 9.0 10.8 14.4 18.0 21.6 25.2 28.8 32.4 36.0 54.0 100 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 16.0 20.0 24.0 28.0 32.0 36.0 40.0 60.0 a Recommended dosing regimen for pediatric patients under 10 years of age is twice daily. Recommended dosing regimen for pediatric patients over 10 years of age and adults is once daily. b Use calibrated oral syringe for measurement. In the case of required volume less than 0.1 mL, a separate device is recommended for adequate measurement. On the left side of the chart, locate the patient’s weight in kilograms. At the top of the chart, identify which dose in mcg/kg will be used for this patient. The block on the chart at which the two rows (weight and target dose) intersect is the milliliter amount that should be given to the patient. The monitoring described in Section 2.2 may suggest increases or decreases in digoxin doses. Additional monitoring, and in some cases anticipatory dose adjustment, may be indicated around the time of various changes to the patient including: • normal development through childhood; • concomitant drug use should be considered when adjusting the estimated digoxin dose [see Drug Interactions (7) ] ; • new co-administration of an antibiotic, especially if the patient had required high doses of digoxin in order to achieve modest serum concentrations, raising the suspicion that a substantial fraction of administered digoxin was being destroyed by colonic bacteria; and • changes in renal function [see Table 3: Usual Maintenance Dose Requirements (mcg) of Digoxin above] . right arrow down arrow 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Digoxin tablets dose is based on patient-specific factors (age, lean body weight, renal function, etc.). ( 2 ) 2.1 Important Dosing and Administration Information In selecting a digoxin tablets dosing regimen, it is important to consider factors that affect digoxin blood levels (e.g., body weight, age, renal function, concomitant drugs) since toxic levels of digoxin are only slightly higher than therapeutic levels. Consider interruption or reduction in digoxin tablets dose prior to electrical cardioversion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Recommended Digoxin Tablets Oral Loading Dose mcg = microgram Age Total Oral Loading Dose (mcg/kg) Administer half the total loading dose initially, then ¼ the loading dose every 6 to 8 hours twice 5 to 10 years 20 to 45 Adults and pediatric patients over 10 years 10 to 15 2.3 Maintenance Dosing in Adults and Pediatric Patients Over 10 Years Old The maintenance dose is based on lean body weight, renal function, age, and concomitant products [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Recommended Starting Digoxin Tablets Maintenance Dosage in Adults and Pediatric Patients Over 10 Years Old mcg = microgram Age Total Oral Maintenance Dose, mcg/kg/day (given once daily) Adults and pediatric patients over 10 years 3.4 to 5.1 Table 3 provides the recommended (once daily) maintenance dose for adults and pediatric patients over 10 years old (to be given once daily) according to lean body weight and renal function. Alternatively, the maintenance dose may be estimated by the following formula (peak body stores lost each day through elimination): Total Maintenance Dose = Loading Dose (i.e., Peak Body Stores) x % Daily Loss/100 (% Daily Loss = 14 + Creatinine clearance/5) Reduce the dose of digoxin tablets in patients whose lean weight is an abnormally small fraction of their total body mass because of obesity or edema. Recommended Maintenance Dose (in micrograms given once daily) of Digoxin Tablets in Pediatric Patients Over 10 Years Old and Adults by Lean Body Weight and by Renal Function a a Doses are rounded to the nearest dose possible using whole digoxin tablets. b For adults , creatinine clearance was corrected to 70 kg body weight or 1.73 m 2 body surface area. Corrected Creatinine Clearance b Lean Body Weight d Number of Days Before Steady State Achieved c kg 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 10 mL/min 62.5* 125 125 187.5 187.5 187.5 250 19 20 mL/min 125 125 125 187.5 187.5 250 250 16 30 mL/min 125 125 187.5 187.5 250 250 312.5 14 40 mL/min 125 187.5 187.5 250 250 312.5 312.5 13 50 mL/min 125 187.5 187.5 250 250 312.5 312.5 12 60 mL/min 125 187.5 250 250 312.5 312.5 375 11 70 mL/min 187.5 187.5 250 250 312.5 375 375 10 80 mL/min 187.5 187.5 250 312.5 312.5 375 437.5 9 90 mL/min 187.5 250 250 312.5 375 437.5 437.5 8 100 mL/min 187.5 250 312.5 312.5 375 437.5 500 7 2.4 Maintenance Dosing in Pediatric Patients Less Than 10 Years Old The starting maintenance dose for heart failure in pediatric patients less than 10 years old is based on lean body weight, renal function, age, and concomitant products [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Recommended Starting Digoxin Tablets Oral Maintenance Dosage in Pediatric Patients between 5 and 10 Years Old Age Oral Maintenance Dose, mcg/kg/dose 5 years to 10 years 3.2 to 6.4 Twice daily Table 5 provides average daily maintenance dose requirements for pediatric patients between 5 and 10 years old (to be given twice daily) with heart failure based on age, lean body weight, and renal function. Recommended Maintenance Dose (in micrograms given TWICE daily) of Digoxin Tablets in Pediatric Patients between 5 and 10 Years of Age a Based upon Lean Body Weight and Renal Function a,b a Recommended are doses to be given twice daily. Corrected Creatinine Clearance c Lean Body Weight Number of Days Before Steady State Achieved d kg 20 30 40 50 60 10 mL/min - 62.5 62.5* 125 125 19 20 mL/min 62.5 62.5 125 125 125 16 30 mL/min 62.5 62.5* 125 125 187.5 14 40 mL/min 62.5 62.5* 125 187.5 187.5 13 50 mL/min 62.5 125 125 187.5 187.5 12 60 mL/min 62.5 125 125 187.5 250 11 70 mL/min 62.5 125 187.5 187.5 250 10 80 mL/min 62.5* 125 187.5 187.5 250 9 90 mL/min 62.5* 125 187.5 250 250 8 100 mL/min 62.5* 125 187.5 250 312.5 7 2.5 Monitoring to Assess Safety, Efficacy, and Therapeutic Blood Levels Monitor for signs and symptoms of digoxin toxicity and clinical response. Interpret the serum digoxin concentration in the overall clinical context, and do not use an isolated measurement of serum digoxin concentration as the basis for increasing or decreasing the digoxin tablets dose. If the assay is sensitive to these substances, consider obtaining a baseline digoxin level before starting digoxin tablets and correct post-treatment values by the reported baseline level. Obtain serum digoxin concentrations just before the next scheduled digoxin tablets dose or at least 6 hours after the last dose. The digoxin concentration is likely to be 10 to 25% lower when sampled right before the next dose (24 hours after dosing) compared to sampling 8 hours after dosing (using once-daily dosing). Comparison of the Systemic Availability and Equivalent Doses of Oral and Intravenous Digoxin Tablets Absolute Bioavailability Equivalent Doses (mcg) Digoxin Tablets 60 to 80% 62.5 125 250 500 Digoxin Intravenous Injection 100% 50 100 200 400 Recommended Maintenance Dose (in micrograms given once daily) of Digoxin Tablets in Pediatric Patients Over 10 Years Old and Adults by Lean Body Weight and by Renal Function a a Doses are rounded to the nearest dose possible using whole and/or half digoxin tablets. Corrected Creatinine Clearance b Lean Body Weight d Number of Days Before Steady State Achieved c kg 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 10 mL/min 62.5* 125 125 187.5 187.5 187.5 250 19 20 mL/min 125 125 125 187.5 187.5 250 250 16 30 mL/min 125 125 187.5 187.5 250 250 312.5 14 40 mL/min 125 187.5 187.5 250 250 312.5 312.5 13 50 mL/min 125 187.5 187.5 250 250 312.5 312.5 12 60 mL/min 125 187.5 250 250 312.5 312.5 375 11 70 mL/min 187.5 187.5 250 250 312.5 375 375 10 80 mL/min 187.5 187.5 250 312.5 312.5 375 437.5 9 90 mL/min 187.5 250 250 312.5 375 437.5 437.5 8 100 mL/min 187.5 250 312.5 312.5 375 437.5 500 7 2.4 Maintenance Dosing in Pediatric Patients Less Than 10 Years Old The starting maintenance dose for heart failure in pediatric patients less than 10 years old is based on lean body weight, renal function, age, and concomitant products [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. b The doses are rounded to the nearest dose possible using whole and/or half digoxin tablets. Serum digoxin concentrations may be falsely elevated by endogenous digoxin-like substances [see Drug Interactions (7.4 ) ]. Comparison of the Systemic Availability and Equivalent Doses of Oral and Intravenous Digoxin Absolute Bioavailability Equivalent Doses (mcg) Digoxin Tablets 60 to 80% 62.5 125 250 500 Digoxin Intravenous Injection 100% 50 100 200 400 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Digoxin injection dose is based on patient-specific factors (age, lean body weight, renal function, etc.). ( 2 ) Intravenous administration is preferable to intramuscular. Avoid bolus administration. ( 2 ) 2.1 Important Dosing and Administration Information In selecting a digoxin injection dosing regimen, it is important to consider factors that affect digoxin blood levels (e.g., body weight, age, renal function, concomitant drugs) since toxic levels of digoxin are only slightly higher than therapeutic levels. Parenteral administration of digoxin should be used only when the need for rapid digitalization is urgent or when the drug cannot be taken orally. Intramuscular injection can lead to severe pain at the injection site, thus intravenous administration is preferred. If the drug must be administered by the intramuscular route, it should be injected deep into the muscle followed by massage. For adults, no more than 500 mcg of digoxin injection should be injected into a single site. For pediatric patients, no more than 200 mcg of digoxin injection should be injected into a single site. Administer the dose over a period of 5 minutes or longer and avoid bolus administration to prevent systemic and coronary vasoconstriction. Mixing of digoxin injection with other drugs in the same container or simultaneous administration in the same intravenous line is not recommended. Digoxin injection can be administered undiluted or diluted with a 4-fold or greater volume of Sterile Water for Injection, 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, or 5% Dextrose Injection. The use of less than a 4-fold volume of diluent could lead to precipitation of the digoxin. Immediate use of the diluted product is recommended. Consider interruption or reduction in digoxin injection dose prior to electrical cardioversion [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. Discard unused portion of digoxin injection. 2.2 Loading Dosing Regimen in Adults and Pediatric Patients Table 1. Recommended Digoxin Injection Loading Dose Age Total IV Loading Dose (mcg/kg) Administer half the total loading dose initially, then ¼ the loading dose every 6 to 8 hours twice mcg = microgram Premature 15-25 Full-Term 20-30 1-24 Months 30-50 2-5 Years 25-35 5-10 Years 15-30 Adults and pediatric patients over 10 years 8-12 2.3 Maintenance Dosing in Adults and Pediatric Patients Over 10 Years Old The maintenance dose is based on lean body weight, renal function, age, and concomitant products [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . The recommended starting maintenance doses in adults and pediatric patients over 10 years old with normal renal function are given in Table 2 . Recommended Starting Digoxin Injection Maintenance Dosage in Adults and Pediatric Patients Over 10 Years Old mcg = microgram Age Total Intravenous Maintenance Dose, mcg/kg/day (given once daily) Adults and pediatric patients over 10 years 2.4-3.6 Table 3 provides the recommended (once daily) maintenance dose for adults and pediatric patients over 10 years old (to be given once daily) according to lean body weight and renal function. Alternatively, the maintenance dose may be estimated by the following formula (peak body stores lost each day through elimination): Total Maintenance Dose = Loading Dose (i.e., Peak Body Stores) x % Daily Loss/100 (% Daily Loss = 14 + Creatinine clearance/5) Reduce the dose of digoxin injection in patients whose lean weight is an abnormally small fraction of their total body mass because of obesity or edema. Recommended Maintenance Dose (in micrograms given once daily) of Digoxin Injection in Pediatric Patients over 10 Years Old and Adults by Lean Body Weight and by Renal Function Corrected Creatinine Clearance For adults, creatinine clearance was corrected to 70-kg body weight or 1.73 m 2 body surface area. GFR (mL/min/1.73 m 2) = (k x Height)/Scr Lean Body Weight The doses listed assume average body composition. Number of Days Before Steady State Achieved If no loading dose administered kg 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 10 mL/min 64 80 96 112 128 144 160 19 20 mL/min 72 90 108 126 144 162 180 16 30 mL/min 80 100 120 140 160 180 200 14 40 mL/min 88 110 132 154 176 198 220 13 50 mL/min 96 120 144 168 192 216 240 12 60 mL/min 104 130 156 182 208 234 260 11 70 mL/min 112 140 168 196 224 252 280 10 80 mL/min 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 9 90 mL/min 128 160 192 224 256 288 320 8 100 mL/min 136 170 204 238 272 306 340 7 2.4 Maintenance Dosing in Pediatric Patients Less Than 10 Years Old The starting maintenance dose for heart failure in pediatric patients less than 10 years old is based on lean body weight, renal function, age, and concomitant products [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . The recommended starting maintenance doses for pediatric patients are given in Table 4 . Recommended Starting Digoxin Injection Maintenance Dosage in Pediatric Patients Less Than 10 Years Old Age Dose Regimen, mcg/kg/dose (given TWICE daily) mcg = microgram Premature 1.9-3.1 Full-Term 3.0-4.5 1-24 Months 4.5-7.5 2-5 Years 3.8-5.3 5-10 Years 2.3-4.5 Table 5 provides average daily maintenance dose requirements for pediatric patients less than 10 years old (to be given twice daily) with heart failure based on age, lean body weight, and renal function. Recommended Maintenance Dose (in micrograms given TWICE daily) of Digoxin Injection in Pediatric Patients Less Than 10 Years of Age Recommended are doses to be given twice daily. Based upon Lean Body Weight and Renal Function Lean Body Weight Corrected Creatinine Clearance The modified Schwartz equation may be used to estimate creatinine clearance. See footnote * under Table 3. kg 5 10 20 30 40 50 60 Number of Days Before Steady State Achieved If no loading dose administered. 10 mL/min 8 16 32 48 64 80 96 19 20 mL/min 9 18 36 54 72 90 108 16 30 mL/min 10 20 40 60 80 100 120 14 40 mL/min 11 22 44 66 88 110 132 13 50 mL/min 12 24 48 72 96 120 144 12 60 mL/min 13 26 52 78 104 130 156 11 70 mL/min 14 28 56 84 112 140 168 10 80 mL/min 15 30 60 90 120 150 180 9 90 mL/min 16 32 64 96 128 160 192 8 100 mL/min 17 34 68 102 136 170 204 7 2.5 Monitoring to Assess Safety, Efficacy, and Therapeutic Blood Levels Monitor for signs and symptoms of digoxin toxicity and clinical response. Interpret the serum digoxin concentration in the overall clinical context, and do not use an isolated measurement of serum digoxin concentration as the basis for increasing or decreasing the digoxin injection dose. Serum digoxin concentrations may be falsely elevated by endogenous digoxin-like substances [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 )] . If the assay is sensitive to these substances, consider obtaining a baseline digoxin level before starting digoxin injection and correct post-treatment values by the reported baseline level. Obtain serum digoxin concentrations just before the next scheduled digoxin injection dose or at least 6 hours after the last dose. 2.6 Switching from Intravenous Digoxin to Oral Digoxin When switching from intravenous to oral digoxin formulations, make allowances for differences in bioavailability when calculating maintenance dosages (see Table 6 ). ( 2 ) 2.1 Important Dosing and Administration Information In selecting a digoxin dosing regimen, it is important to consider factors that affect digoxin blood levels (e.g., body weight, age, renal function, concomitant drugs) since toxic levels of digoxin are only slightly higher than therapeutic levels. For pediatric patients, see the full prescribing information for pediatric digoxin injection (not available from Hikma Pharmaceutical) for specific recommendations. Consider interruption or reduction in digoxin dose prior to electrical cardioversion [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. 2.2 Loading Dosing Regimen in Adults and Pediatric Patients Over 10 Years Old Table 1. Recommended Digoxin Injection Loading Dose mcg = microgram Age Total IV Loading Dose (mcg/kg) Administer half the total loading dose initially, then ¼ the loading dose every 6-8 hours twice Adults and pediatric patients over 10 years old 8-12 2.3 Maintenance Dosing in Adults and Pediatric Patients Over 10 Years Old The maintenance dose is based on lean body weight, renal function, age, and concomitant products [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Recommended Starting Digoxin Injection Maintenance Dosage in Adults and Pediatric Patients Over 10 Years Old mcg = microgram Age Total Intravenous Maintenance Dose, mcg/kg/day (given once daily) Adults and pediatric patients over 10 years old 2.4-3.6 Table 3 provides the recommended (once daily) maintenance dose for adults and pediatric patients over 10 years old according to lean body weight and renal function. Recommended Maintenance Dose (in micrograms given once daily) of Digoxin Injection in Pediatric Patients Over 10 Years Old and Adults by Lean Body Weight and by Renal Function a For adults , creatinine clearance was corrected to 70-kg body weight or 1.73 m 2 body surface area. GFR (mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) = (k x Height)/Scr b If no loading dose administered c The doses listed assume average body composition. Corrected Creatinine Clearance a Lean Body Weight c Number of Days Before Steady State Achieved b kg 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 10 mL/min 64 80 96 112 128 144 160 19 20 mL/min 72 90 108 126 144 162 180 16 30 mL/min 80 100 120 140 160 180 200 14 40 mL/min 88 110 132 154 176 198 220 13 50 mL/min 96 120 144 168 192 216 240 12 60 mL/min 104 130 156 182 208 234 260 11 70 mL/min 112 140 168 196 224 252 280 10 80 mL/min 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 9 90 mL/min 128 160 192 224 256 288 320 8 100 mL/min 136 170 204 238 272 306 340 7 2.4 Monitoring to Assess Safety, Efficacy, and Therapeutic Blood Levels Monitor for signs and symptoms of digoxin toxicity and clinical response. 2.5 Switching from Intravenous Digoxin to Oral Digoxin When switching from intravenous to oral digoxin formulations, make allowances for differences in bioavailability when calculating maintenance dosages (see Table 4). Monitor for toxicity and therapeutic effect (2) . Recommended Digoxin Oral Loading Dose Age Total Oral Loading Dose (mcg/kg) Administer half the total loading dose initially, then 1/4 the loading dose every 6 to 8 hours twice 5 to 10 years 20-45 Adult and pediatric patients over 10 years 10-15 mcg= microgram 2.3 Maintenance Dosing in Adults and Pediatric Patients Over 10 Years Old The maintenance dose is based on lean body weight, renal function, age, and concomitant products [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Recommended Starting Digoxin Maintenance Dosage in Adults and Pediatric Patients Over 10 Years Old Age Total Oral Maintenance Dose, mcg/kg/day (given once daily) Adults and pediatric patients over 10 years 3.4 to 5.1 mcg=microgram Table 3 provides the recommended (once daily) maintenance dose for adults and pediatric patients over 10 years old (to be given once daily) according to lean body weight and renal function. GFR (mL/min/1.73 m2) = (k x Height)/Scr c If no loading dose administered. 2.4 Maintenance Dosing in Pediatric Patients Less Than 10 Years Old The starting maintenance dose for heart failure in pediatric patients less than 10 years old is based on lean body weight, renal function, age, and concomitant products [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Recommended Maintenance Dose (in micrograms given TWICE daily) of Digoxin in Pediatric Patients between 5 and 10 Years of Age a Based upon Lean Body Weight and Renal Function a,b Corrected Creatinine Clearance c Lean Body Weight Number of Days Before Steady State Achieved d Kg 20 30 40 50 60 10 mL/min - 62.5 62.5* 125 125 19 20 mL/min 62.5 62.5 125 125 125 16 30 mL/min 62.5 62.5* 125 125 187.5 14 40 mL/min 62.5 62.5* 125 187.5 187.5 13 50 mL/min 62.5 125 125 187.5 187.5 12 60 mL/min 62.5 125 125 187.5 250 11 70 mL/min 62.5 125 187.5 187.5 250 10 80 mL/min 62.5* 125 187.5 187.5 250 9 90 mL/min 62.5* 125 187.5 250 250 8 100 mL/min 62.5* 125 187.5 250 312.5 7 a Recommended are doses to be given twice daily. Serum digoxin concentrations may be falsely elevated by endogenous digoxin-like substances [ see Drug Interactions (7.4)].
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Digoxin is contraindicated in patients with: Ventricular fibrillation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Known hypersensitivity to digoxin (reactions seen include unexplained rash, swelling of the mouth, lips or throat or a difficulty in breathing). A hypersensitivity reaction to other digitalis preparations usually constitutes a contraindication to digoxin. Ventricular fibrillation. ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to digoxin or other forms of digitalis. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Digoxin is contraindicated in patients with: • Ventricular fibrillation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . • Known hypersensitivity to digoxin (reactions seen include unexplained rash, swelling of the mouth, lips or throat or a difficulty in breathing). • Ventricular fibrillation (4) • Known hypersensitivity to digoxin or other forms of digitalis (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Allergy to digoxin is rare. Digoxin is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to digoxin or other forms of digitalis. Digitalis glycosides, such as digoxin, are contraindicated in ventricular fibrillation. • Known hypersensitivity to digoxin or other forms of digitalis. ( 4 ) • Ventricular fibrillation. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Digoxin tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Ventricular fibrillation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Known hypersensitivity to digoxin (reactions seen include unexplained rash, swelling of the mouth, lips or throat or a difficulty in breathing). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Digoxin injection is contraindicated in patients with: Ventricular fibrillation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Known hypersensitivity to digoxin (reactions seen include unexplained rash, swelling of the mouth, lips or throat or a difficulty in breathing). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Digoxin is contraindicated in patients with: Ventricular fibrillation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Known hypersensitivity to digoxin (reactions seen include unexplained rash, swelling of the mouth, lips or throat or a difficulty in breathing). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Digoxin is contraindicated in patients with: Ventricular fibrillation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . Known hypersensitivity to digoxin (reactions seen include unexplained rash, swelling of the mouth, lips or throat or a difficulty in breathing). Ventricular fibrillation (4) . Known hypersensitivity to digoxin or other forms of digitalis (4) .
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Digoxin has a narrow therapeutic index, increased monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations and for potential signs and symptoms of clinical toxicity is necessary when initiating, adjusting, or discontinuing drugs that may interact with digoxin. Prescribers should consult the prescribing information of any drug which is co-prescribed with digoxin for potential drug interaction information. PGP Inducers/Inhibitors: Drugs that induce or inhibit PGP have the potential to alter digoxin pharmacokinetics. ( 7.1 ) The potential for drug-drug interactions must be considered prior to and during drug therapy. See full prescribing information. ( 7.2 , 7.3 , 12.3 ) 7.1 P-Glycoprotein (PGP) Inducers/Inhibitors Digoxin is a substrate of P-glycoprotein, at the level of intestinal absorption, renal tubular section and biliary–intestinal secretion. Therefore, drugs that induce/inhibit P-glycoprotein have the potential to alter digoxin pharmacokinetics. 7.2 Pharmacokinetic Drug Interactions Digoxin concentrations increased greater than 50% Digoxin Serum Concentration Increase Digoxin AUC Increase Recommendations Amiodarone 70% NA Measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating concomitant drugs. Reduce digoxin concentrations by decreasing dose by approximately 30-50% or by modifying the dosing frequency and continue monitoring. Captopril 58% 39% Clarithromycin NA 70% Dronedarone NA 150% Gentamicin 129-212% NA Erythromycin 100% NA Itraconazole 80% NA Lapatinib NA 180% Propafenone NA 60-270% Quinidine 100% NA Ranolazine 50% NA Ritonavir NA 86% Telaprevir 50% 85% Tetracycline 100% NA Verapamil 50-75% NA Digoxin concentrations increased less than 50% Atorvastatin 22% 15% Carvedilol 16% 14% Measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating concomitant drugs. Reduce digoxin concentrations by decreasing the dose by approximately 15-30% or by modifying the dosing frequency and continue monitoring. Conivaptan 33% 43% Diltiazem 20% NA Indomethacin 40% NA Mirabegron 29% 27% Nefazodone 27% 15% Nifedipine 45% NA Propantheline 24% 24% Quinine NA 33% Rabeprazole 29% 19% Saquinavir 27% 49% Spironolactone 25% NA Telmisartan 20 to 49% NA Tricagrelor 31% 28% Tolvaptan 30% 20% Trimethoprim 22 to 28% NA Digoxin concentrations increased, but magnitude is unclear Alprazolam, azithromycin, cyclosporine, diclofenac, diphenoxylate, epoprostenol, esomeprazole, ibuprofen, ketoconazole, lansoprazole, metformin, omeprazole Measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating concomitant drugs. Continue monitoring and reduce digoxin dose as necessary. Digoxin concentrations decreased Acarbose, activated charcoal, albuterol, antacids, certain cancer chemotherapy or radiation therapy, cholestyramine, colestipol, extenatide, kaolin-pectin, meals high in bran, metoclopramide, miglitol, neomycin, penicillamine, phenytoin, rifampin, St. John's Wort, sucralfate, sulfasalazine Measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating concomitant drugs. Continue monitoring and increase digoxin dose by approximately 20 to 40% as necessary. NA - Not available/reported 7.3 Potentially Significant Pharmacodynamic Drug Interactions Because of considerable variability of pharmacodynamic interactions, the dosage of digoxin should be individualized when patients receive these medications concurrently. Drugs that Affect Renal Function A decline in GFR or tubular secretion, as from ACE inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs [NSAIDS], COX-2 inhibitors may impair the excretion of digoxin. Antiarrthymics Dofetilide Concomitant administration with digoxin was associated with a higher rate of torsades de pointes Sotalol Proarrhythmic events were more common in patients receiving sotalol and digoxin than on either alone; it is not clear whether this represents an interaction or is related to the presence of CHF, a known risk factor for proarrhythmia, in patients receiving digoxin. Dronedarone Sudden death was more common in patients receiving digoxin with dronedarone than on either alone; it is not clear whether this represents an interaction or is related to the presence of advanced heart disease, a known risk factor for sudden death in patients receiving digoxin. Parathyroid Hormone Analog Teriparatide Sporadic case reports have suggested that hypercalcemia may predispose patients to digitalis toxicity. Teriparatide transiently increases serum calcium. Thyroid supplement Thyroid Treatment of hypothyroidism in patients taking digoxin may increase the dose requirements of digoxin. Sympathomimetics Epinephrine Norepinephrine Dopamine Can increase the risk of cardiac arrhythmias Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Succinylcholine May cause sudden extrusion of potassium from muscle cells causing arrhythmias in patients taking digoxin. Supplements Calcium If administered rapidly by intravenous route, can produce serious arrhythmias in digitalized patients. Beta-adrenergic blockers and calcium channel blockers Additive effects on AV node conduction can result in bradycardia and advanced or complete heart block. Hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated channel blocker Ivabradine Can increase the risk of bradycardia. 7.4 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Endogenous substances of unknown composition (digoxin-like immunoreactive substances [DLIS]) can interfere with standard radioimmunoassays for digoxin. The interference most often causes results to be falsely positive or falsely elevated, but sometimes it causes results to be falsely reduced. Some assays are more subject to these failings than others. Several LC/MS/MS methods are available that may provide less susceptibility to DLIS interference. DLIS are present in up to half of all neonates and in varying percentages of pregnant women, patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, patients with renal or hepatic dysfunction, and other patients who are volume-expanded for any reason. The measured levels of DLIS (as digoxin equivalents) are usually low (0.2-0.4 ng/mL), but sometimes they reach levels that would be considered therapeutic or even toxic. In some assays, spironolactone, canrenone, and potassium canrenoate may be falsely detected as digoxin, at levels up to 0.5 ng/mL. Some traditional Chinese and Ayurvedic medicine substances like Chan Su, Siberian Ginseng, Asian Ginseng, Ashwagandha or Dashen can cause similar interference. Spironolactone and DLIS are much more extensively protein-bound than digoxin. As a result, assays of free digoxin levels in protein-free ultrafiltrate (which tend to be about 25% less than total levels, consistent with the usual extent of protein binding) are less affected by spironolactone or DLIS. It should be noted that ultrafiltration does not solve all interference problems with alternative medicines. The use of an LC/MS/MS method may be the better option according to the good results it provides, especially in terms of specificity and limit of quantization. • PGP Inducers/Inhibitors: Drugs that induce or inhibit PGP have the potential to alter digoxin pharmacokinetics (7.1). • The potential for drug-drug interactions must be considered prior to and during drug therapy. See full prescribing information (7.2 , 7.3 , 12.3) . 7.1 P-Glycoprotein (PGP) Inducers/Inhibitors Digoxin is a substrate of P-glycoprotein, at the level of intestinal absorption, renal tubular section and biliary-intestinal secretion. Reduce digoxin concentrations by decreasing dose by approximately 30% to 50% or by modifying the dosing frequency and continue monitoring. Captopril 58% 39% Clarithromycin NA 70% Dronedarone NA 150% Gentamicin 129 - 212% NA Erthromycin 100% NA Itraconazole 80% NA Lapatinib NA 180% Propafenone NA 60 - 270% Quinidine 100% NA Ranolazine 50% NA Ritonavir NA 86% Telaprevir 50% 85% Tetracycline 100% NA Verapamil 50 - 75% NA Digoxin concentrations increased less than 50% Atorvastatin 22% 15% Measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating concomitant drugs. Reduce digoxin concentrations by decreasing the dose by approximately 15% - 30% or by modifying the dosing frequency and continue monitoring. Carvedilol 16% 14% Conivaptan 33% 43% Diltiazem 20% NA Indomethacin 40% NA Mirabegron 29% 27% Nefazodone 27% 15% Nifedipine 45% NA Propantheline 24% 24% Quinine NA 33% Rabeprazole 29% 19% Saquinavir 27% 49% Spironolactone 25% NA Telmisartan 20 - 49% NA Ticagrelor 31% 28% Tolvaptan 30% 20% Trimethoprim 22 - 28% NA Digoxin concentrations increased, but magnitude is unclear Alprazolam, azithromycin, cyclosporine, diclofenac, diphenoxylate, epoprostenol, esomeprazole, ibuprofen, ketoconazole, lansoprazole, metformin, omeprazole Measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating concomitant drugs. John’s Wort, sucralfate, and sulfasalazine Measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating concomitant drugs. Continue monitoring and increase digoxin dose by approximately 20 % - 40 % as necessary. NA- Not available/reported 7.3 Potentially Significant Pharmacodynamic Drug Interactions Because of considerable variability of pharmacodynamic interactions, the dosage of digoxin should be individualized when patients receive these medications concurrently. Thyroid supplement Thyroid Supplement Treatment of hypothyroidism in patients taking digoxin may increase the dose requirements of digoxin. Sympathomimetics Epinephrine Norepinephrine Dopamine Can increase the risk of cardiac arrhythmias. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Succinylcholine May cause sudden extrusion of potassium from muscle cells causing arrhythmias inpatients taking digoxin. The measured levels of DLIS (as digoxin equivalents) are usually low (0.2 to 0.4 ng/mL), but sometimes they reach levels that would be considered therapeutic or even toxic. • PGP Inducers/Inhibitors: Drugs that induce or inhibit PGP have the potential to alter digoxin pharmacokinetics. ( 7.1 ) • The potential for drug-drug interactions must be considered prior to and during drug therapy. ( 7.2 , 7.3 , 12.3 ) 7.1 P-Glycoprotein (PGP) Inducers/Inhibitors Digoxin is a substrate for P-glycoprotein, at the level of intestinal absorption, renal tubular section and biliary-intestinal secretion. 7.2 Pharmacokinetic Drug Interactions on Serum Digoxin Levels in Adults Digoxin Concentrations Increased Greater than 50% Digoxin Serum Concentration Increase Digoxin AUC Increase Recommendations Amiodarone 70% NA Measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating concomitant drugs. Reduce digoxin dose by approximately 30% to 50% or by modifying the dosing frequency and continue monitoring. Captopril 58% 39% Clarithromycin NA 70% Dronedarone NA 150% Gentamicin 129 to 212% NA Erythromycin 100% NA Itraconazole 80% NA Lapatinib NA 180% Propafenone NA 60 to 270% Quinidine 100% NA Ranolazine 50% NA Ritonavir NA 86% Telaprevir 50% 85% Tetracycline 100% NA Verapamil 50 to 75% NA Digoxin Concentrations Increased Less than 50% Atorvastatin 22% 15% Measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating concomitant drugs. Reduce digoxin dose by approximately 15% to 30% or by modifying the dosing frequency and continue monitoring. Carvedilol 16% 14% Conivaptan 33% 43% Diltiazem 20% NA Indomethacin 40% NA Mirabegron 29% 27% Nefazodone 27% 15% Nifedipine 45% NA Propantheline 24% 24% Quinine NA 33% Rabeprazole 29% 19% Saquinavir 27% 49% Spironolactone 25% NA Telmisartan 20 to 49% NA Ticagrelor 31% 28% Tolvaptan 30% 20% Trimethoprim 22 to 28% NA Digoxin Concentrations Increased, but Magnitude is Unclear Alprazolam, Azithromycin, Cyclosporine, Diclofenac, Diphenoxylate, Epoprostenol, Esomeprazole, Ibuprofen, Ketoconazole, Lansoprazole, Metformin, Omeprazole Measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating concomitant drugs. Digoxin Concentrations Decreased Acarbose, Activated Charcoal, Albuterol, Antacids, certain cancer chemotherapy or radiation therapy, Cholestyramine, Colestipol, Exenatide, Kaolin-pectin, Meals High in Bran, Metoclopramide, Miglitol, Neomycin, Penicillamine, Phenytoin, Rifampin, St. John’s Wort, Sucralfate, Sulfasalazine Measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating concomitant drugs. Continue monitoring and increase digoxin dose by approximately 20% to 40% as necessary. NA – Not available/reported 7.3 Pharmacodynamic Drug Interactions Antiarrhythmics Dofetilide Concomitant administration with digoxin was associated with a higher rate of torsades de pointes . Sotalol Proarrhythmic events were more common in patients receiving sotalol and digoxin than on either alone; it is not clear whether this represents an interaction or is related to the presence of CHF, a known risk factor for proarrhythmia, in patients receiving digoxin. Sympathomimetics Epinephrine Can increase the risk of cardiac arrhythmias. Norepinephrine Dopamine Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Succinylcholine May cause sudden extrusion of potassium from muscle cells causing arrhythmias in patients taking digoxin. Beta-adrenergic Blockers and Calcium Channel Blockers Additive effects on AV node conduction can result in complete heart block. 7.4 Drug-Laboratory Test Interaction Endogenous substances of unknown composition (digoxin-like immunoreactive substances, DLIS) can interfere with standard radioimmunoassays for digoxin. In some assays, spironolactone, canrenone and potassium canrenoate may be falsely detected as digoxin, at levels up to 0.5 ng/mL. Some traditional Chinese and Ayurvedic medicine substances like Chan Su, Siberian Ginseng, Asian Ginseng, Ashwagandha or Dashen, can cause similar interference. The use of an LC/MS/MS method may be the better option according to the good results it provides, especially in term of specificity and limit of quantization. ( 7.2 , 7.3 , 12.3 ) 7.1 P-Glycoprotein (PGP) Inducers/Inhibitors Digoxin is a substrate of P-glycoprotein, at the level of intestinal absorption, renal tubular section and biliary-intestinal secretion. Therefore, drugs that induce/ inhibit P-glycoprotein have the potential to alter digoxin pharmacokinetics. Reduce digoxin concentrations by decreasing dose by approximately 30 to 50% or by modifying the dosing frequency and continue monitoring. Reduce digoxin concentrations by decreasing the dose by approximately 15 to 30% or by modifying the dosing frequency and continue monitoring. NA = Not available/reported Digoxin concentrations decreased Acarbose, activated charcoal, albuterol, antacids, certain cancer chemotherapy or radiation therapy, cholestyramine, colestipol, extenatide, kaolin-pectin, meals high in bran, metoclopramide, miglitol, neomycin, penicillamine, phenytoin, rifampin, St. John’s Wort, sucralfate and sulfasalazine Measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating concomitant drugs. 7.3 Potentially Significant Pharmacodynamic Drug Interactions Because of considerable variability of pharmacodynamic interactions, the dosage of digoxin should be individualized when patients receive these medications concurrently. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Succinylcholine May cause sudden extrusion of potassium from muscle cells, causing arrhythmias in patients taking digoxin. Hyperpolarization­activated cyclic nucleotide-gated channel blocker Ivabradine Can increase the risk of bradycardia. 7.2 Pharmacokinetic Drug Interactions NA = Not available/reported Digoxin concentrations increased greater than 50% Digoxin Serum Concentration Increase Digoxin AUC Increase Recommendations Amiodarone 70% NA Measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating concomitant drugs. Antiarrhythmics Dofetilide Concomitant administration with digoxin was associated with a higher rate of torsades de pointes. 7.2 Pharmacokinetic Drug Interactions Pharmacokinetic interactions have been observed and reported primarily when digoxin is co-administered by oral route. There are very few studies that have evaluated the drug interaction when digoxin is administered via IV route. The magnitude of digoxin exposure change through IV route is generally lower than that through oral route. Table below provides available interaction data using digoxin IV formulation (NA means not available). Digoxin concentrations increased greater than 50% Digoxin Serum Concentration Increase Digoxin AUC Increase Recommendations Quinidine NA 54-83% Measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating concomitant drugs. Ritonavir NA 86% Digoxin concentrations increased less than 50% Amiodarone 17% 40% Measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating concomitant drugs. Propafenone 28% 29% Quinine NA 34-38% Spironolactone NA 44% Verapamil NA 24% Mirabegron 29% 27% 7.3 Potentially Significant Pharmacodynamic Drug Interactions Because of considerable variability of pharmacodynamic interactions, the dosage of digoxin should be individualized when patients receive these medications concurrently. Antiarrthymics Dofetilide Concomitant administration with digoxin was associated with a higher rate of torsades de pointes. Ivabradine Can increase the risk of bradycardia. Some traditional Chinese and Ayurvedic medicine substances like Chan Su, Siberian Ginseng, Asian Ginseng, Ashwagandha, or Danshen can cause similar interference. Some traditional Chinese and Ayurvedic medicine substances like Chan Su, Siberian Ginseng, Asian Ginseng, Ashwagandha, or Dashen can cause similar interference. PGP Inducers/Inhibitors: Drugs that induce or inhibit PGP have the potential to alter digoxin pharmacokinetics (7.1). The potential for drug-drug interactions must be considered prior to and during drug therapy. See full prescribing information (7.2 , 7.3 , 12.3). Reduce digoxin concentrations by decreasing dose by approximately 30% - 50% or by modifying the dosing frequency and continue monitoring. Captopril 58% 39% Clarithromycin NA 70% Dronedarone NA 150% Gentamicin 129 - 212% NA Erythromycin 100% NA Itraconazole 80% NA Lapatinib NA 180% Propafenone NA 60 - 270 % Quinidine 100% NA Ranolazine 50% NA Ritonavir NA 86% Telaprevir 50% 85% Tetracycline 100% NA Verapamil 50 - 75% NA Digoxin concentrations increased less than 50% Atorvastatin 22% 15% Measure serum digoxin concentrations before initiating concomitant drugs. Continue monitoring and increase digoxin dose by approximately 20 % to 40 % as necessary. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Succinylcholine May cause sudden extrusion of potassium from muscle cells causing arrhythmias in patients taking digoxin.

=== IRBESARTAN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Irbesartan tablets are an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) indicated for: Treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. ( 1.1 ) Treatment of diabetic nephropathy in hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes, an elevated serum creatinine, and proteinuria. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Hypertension Irbesartan tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure lowers the risk of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular (CV) events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarction. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including this drug. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than 1 drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. Irbesartan tablets may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. 1.2 Nephropathy in Type 2 Diabetic Patients Irbesartan tablets are indicated for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy in patients with type 2 diabetes and hypertension, an elevated serum creatinine, and proteinuria (>300 mg/day). In this population, irbesartan tablets reduce the rate of progression of nephropathy as measured by the occurrence of doubling of serum creatinine or end-stage renal disease (need for dialysis or renal transplantation) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Irbesartan tablets are angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) indicated for: Treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. (1.1) Treatment of diabetic nephropathy in hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes, an elevated serum creatinine, and proteinuria. (1.2) 1.1 Hypertension Irbesartan tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. In this population, irbesartan tablets reduces the rate of progression of nephropathy as measured by the occurrence of doubling of serum creatinine or end-stage renal disease (need for dialysis or renal transplantation) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Irbesartan Tablets USP is an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) indicated for: • Treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. (1.1) • Treatment of diabetic nephropathy in hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes, an elevated serum creatinine, and proteinuria. (1.2). 1.1 Hypertension Irbesartan Tablets USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Irbesartan Tablets USP may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. 1.2 Nephropathy in Type 2 Diabetic Patients Irbesartan Tablets USP are indicated for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy in patients with type 2 diabetes and hypertension, an elevated serum creatinine, and proteinuria (>300 mg/day). In this population, Irbesartan reduces the rate of progression of nephropathy as measured by the occurrence of doubling of serum creatinine or end-stage renal disease (need for dialysis or renal transplantation) [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Irbesartan tablet is an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) indicated for: • Treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. In this population, irbesartan reduces the rate of progression of nephropathy as measured by the occurrence of doubling of serum creatinine or end-stage renal disease (need for dialysis or renal transplantation) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE AVALIDE ® (irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide) tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension. AVALIDE may be used in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on monotherapy. AVALIDE may also be used as initial therapy in patients who are likely to need multiple drugs to achieve their blood pressure goals. The choice of AVALIDE as initial therapy for hypertension should be based on an assessment of potential benefits and risks. Patients with stage 2 (moderate or severe) hypertension are at relatively high risk for cardiovascular events (such as strokes, heart attacks, and heart failure), kidney failure, and vision problems, so prompt treatment is clinically relevant. The decision to use a combination as initial therapy should be individualized and may be shaped by considerations such as the baseline blood pressure, the target goal, and the incremental likelihood of achieving goal with a combination compared with monotherapy. Data from Studies V and VI [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] provide estimates of the probability of reaching a blood pressure goal with AVALIDE compared to irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) monotherapy. The relationship between baseline blood pressure and achievement of a SeSBP <140 or <130 mmHg or SeDBP <90 or <80 mmHg in patients treated with AVALIDE compared to patients treated with irbesartan or HCTZ monotherapy are shown in Figures 1a through 2b. Figure 1a: Probability of Achieving SBP <140 mmHg in Patients from Initial Therapy Studies V (Week 8) and VI (Week 7) For all probability curves, patients without blood pressure measurements at Week 7 (Study VI) and Week 8 (Study V) were counted as not reaching goal (intent-to-treat analysis). Figure 1b: Probability of Achieving SBP <130 mmHg in Patients from Initial Therapy Studies V (Week 8) and VI (Week 7) Figure 2a: Probability of Achieving DBP <90 mmHg in Patients from Initial Therapy Studies V (Week 8) and VI (Week 7) Figure 2b: Probability of Achieving DBP <80 mmHg in Patients from Initial Therapy Studies V (Week 8) and VI (Week 7) The above graphs provide a rough approximation of the likelihood of reaching a targeted blood pressure goal (e.g., Week 8 sitting systolic blood pressure ≤140 mmHg) for the treatment groups. The curve of each treatment group in each study was estimated by logistic regression modeling from all available data of that treatment group. The estimated likelihood at the right tail of each curve is less reliable due to small numbers of subjects with high baseline blood pressures. For example, a patient with a blood pressure of 180/105 mmHg has about a 25% likelihood of achieving a goal of <140 mmHg (systolic) and 50% likelihood of achieving <90 mmHg (diastolic) on irbesartan alone (and lower still likelihoods on HCTZ alone). The likelihood of achieving these goals on AVALIDE rises to about 40% (systolic) or 70% (diastolic). AVALIDE is a combination of irbesartan, an angiotensin II receptor antagonist, and hydrochlorothiazide, a thiazide diuretic, indicated for hypertension: In patients not adequately controlled with monotherapy. ( 1 ) As initial therapy in patients likely to need multiple drugs to achieve their blood pressure goals. ( 1 ) Figure 1a Figure 1b Figure 2a Figure 2b 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Irbesartan is an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) indicated for: • Treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. ( 1.1 ) • Treatment of diabetic nephropathy in hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes, an elevated serum creatinine, and proteinuria. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Hypertension Irbesartan is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Irbesartan may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. 1.2 Nephropathy in Type 2 Diabetic Patients Irbesartan is indicated for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy in patients with type 2 diabetes and hypertension, an elevated serum creatinine, and proteinuria (>300 mg/day). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Irbesartan tablets are an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) indicated for: • Treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension. Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide may be used in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on monotherapy. Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide may also be used as initial therapy in patients who are likely to need multiple drugs to achieve their blood pressure goals. The choice of irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy for hypertension should be based on an assessment of potential benefits and risks. Data from Studies V and VI [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] provide estimates of the probability of reaching a blood pressure goal with irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide compared to irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) monotherapy. The relationship between baseline blood pressure and achievement of a SeSBP <140 or <130 mmHg or SeDBP <90 or <80 mmHg in patients treated with irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide compared to patients treated with irbesartan or HCTZ monotherapy are shown in Figures 1a through 2b. Figure 1a. Probability of Achieving SBP <140 mmHg in Patients from Initial Therapy Studies V (Week 8) and VI (Week 7)* Figure 1b. Probability of Achieving SBP <130 mmHg in Patients from Initial Therapy Studies V (Week 8) and VI (Week 7)* Figure 2a. Probability of Achieving DBP <90 mmHg in Patients from Initial Therapy Studies V (Week 8) and VI (Week 7)* Figure 2b. Probability of Achieving DBP <80 mmHg in Patients from Initial Therapy Studies V (Week 8) and VI (Week 7)* *For all probability curves, patients without blood pressure measurements at Week 7 (Study VI) and Week 8 (Study V) were counted as not reaching goal (intent-to-treat analysis). The above graphs provide a rough approximation of the likelihood of reaching a targeted blood pressure goal (e.g., Week 8 sitting systolic blood pressure ≤140 mmHg) for the treatment groups. The likelihood of achieving these goals on irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide rises to about 40% (systolic) or 70% (diastolic). Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide is a combination of irbesartan, an angiotensin II receptor antagonist, and hydrochlorothiazide, a thiazide diuretic, indicated for hypertension: • In patients not adequately controlled with monotherapy. ( 1 ) • As initial therapy in patients likely to need multiple drugs to achieve their blood pressure goals. ( 1 ) figure1a.jpg figure1b.jpg figure2a.jpg figure2b.jpg 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are a combination of irbesartan, an angiotensin II receptor antagonist, and hydrochlorothiazide, a thiazide diuretic, indicated for hypertension: In patients not adequately controlled with monotherapy. ( 1 ) Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension. Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP may be used in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on monotherapy. Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP may also be used as initial therapy in patients who are likely to need multiple drugs to achieve their blood pressure goals. The choice of irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as initial therapy for hypertension should be based on an assessment of potential benefits and risks. Data from Studies V and VI [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] provide estimates of the probability of reaching a blood pressure goal with irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets compared to irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) monotherapy. The relationship between baseline blood pressure and achievement of a SeSBP <140 or <130 mmHg or SeDBP <90 or <80 mmHg in patients treated with irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets compared to patients treated with irbesartan or HCTZ monotherapy are shown in Figures 1a through 2b. *For all probability curves, patients without blood pressure measurements at Week 7 (Study VI) and Week 8 (Study V) were counted as not reaching goal (intent-to-treat analysis). The likelihood of achieving these goals on irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets rises to about 40% (systolic) or 70% (diastolic). Baseline SBP (mmHg) vs %SBP <140 mmHg Baseline SBP (mmHg) vs %SBP <130 mmHg Baseline DBP (mmHg) vs %DBP <90 mmHg Baseline DBP (mmHg) vs %DBP <80 mmHg Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be used in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on monotherapy. Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may also be used as initial therapy in patients who are likely to need multiple drugs to achieve their blood pressure goals. Data from Studies V and VI [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ] provide estimates of the probability of reaching a blood pressure goal with irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets compared to irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) monotherapy. Figure 1a: Probability of Achieving SBP <140 mmHg in Patients from Initial Therapy Studies V (Week 8) and VI (Week 7)* Figure 1b: Probability of Achieving SBP <130 mmHg in Patients from Initial Therapy Studies V (Week 8) and VI (Week 7)* Figure 2a: Probability of Achieving DBP <90 mmHg in Patients from Initial Therapy Studies V (Week 8) and VI (Week 7)* Figure 2b: Probability of Achieving DBP <80 mmHg in Patients from Initial Therapy Studies V (Week 8) and VI (Week 7)* *For all probability curves, patients without blood pressure measurements at Week 7 (Study VI) and Week 8 (Study V) were counted as not reaching goal (intent-to-treat analysis). Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are a combination of irbesartan, an angiotensin II receptor antagonist, and hydrochlorothiazide, a thiazide diuretic, indicated for hypertension: In patients not adequately controlled with monotherapy. ( 1 ) fig-1a fig-1b fig-2a fig-2b
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Dose Hypertension ( 2.2 ) 150 to 300 mg once daily Diabetic Nephropathy ( 2.3 ) 300 mg once daily 2.1 General Considerations Irbesartan tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents and with or without food. 2.2 Hypertension The recommended initial dose of irbesartan tablets is 150 mg once daily. The dosage can be increased to a maximum dose of 300 mg once daily as needed to control blood pressure [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 2.3 Nephropathy in Type 2 Diabetic Patients The recommended dose is 300 mg once daily [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 2.4 Dose Adjustment in Volume and Salt-Depleted Patients The recommended initial dose is 75 mg once daily in patients with depletion of intravascular volume or salt (e.g., patients treated vigorously with diuretics or on hemodialysis) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Dose Hypertension (2.2) 150 to 300 mg once daily Diabetic Nephropathy (2.3) 300 mg once daily 2.1 General Considerations Irbesartan tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents and with or without food. 2.3 Nephropathy in Type 2 Diabetic Patients The recommended dose is 300 mg once daily [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Ind ication D o s e Hypertension (2.2) 150 to 300 mg once daily Diabetic Nephropathy (2.3) 300 mg once daily 2.1 General Considerations Irbesartan Tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents and with or without food. 2.2 Hypertension The recommended initial dose of Irbesartan Tablet is 150 mg once daily. The dosage can be increased to a maximum dose of 300 mg once daily as needed to control blood pressure [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. 2.3 Nephropathy in Type 2 Diabetic Patients The recommended dose is 300 mg once daily [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. 2.4 Dose Adjustment in Volume- and Salt-Depleted Patients The recommended initial dose is 75 mg once daily in patients with depletion of intravascular volume or salt (e.g., patients treated vigorously with diuretics or on hemodialysis) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. The dosage can be increased to a maximum dose of 300 mg once daily as needed to control blood pressure [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. 2.3 Nephropathy in Type 2 Diabetic Patients The recommended dose is 300 mg once daily [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. 2.4 Dose Adjustment in Volume and Salt-Depleted Patients The recommended initial dose is 75 mg once daily in patients with depletion of intravascular volume or salt (e.g., patients treated vigorously with diuretics or on hemodialysis) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION General Considerations Maximum effects within 2 to 4 weeks after dose change. ( 2.1 ) Renal impairment: Not recommended for patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/min). ( 2.1 , 5.8 ) Hypertension Initiate with 150/12.5 mg. Titrate to 300/12.5 mg then 300/25 mg if needed. ( 2.2 ) Replacement therapy: May be substituted for titrated components. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 General Considerations The side effects of irbesartan are generally rare and apparently independent of dose; those of hydrochlorothiazide are a mixture of dose-dependent (primarily hypokalemia) and dose-independent phenomena (e.g., pancreatitis), the former much more common than the latter. [See Adverse Reactions (6) .] Maximum antihypertensive effects are attained within 2 to 4 weeks after a change in dose. AVALIDE may be administered with or without food. AVALIDE may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. Renal Impairment The usual regimens of therapy with AVALIDE may be followed as long as the patient's creatinine clearance is >30 mL/min. In patients with more severe renal impairment, loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides, so AVALIDE is not recommended. Hepatic Impairment No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with hepatic impairment. 2.2 Add-On Therapy In patients not controlled on monotherapy with irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide, the recommended doses of AVALIDE, in order of increasing mean effect, are (irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide) 150/12.5 mg, 300/12.5 mg, and 300/25 mg. The largest incremental effect will likely be in the transition from monotherapy to 150/12.5 mg. [See Clinical Studies (14.2) .] 2.3 Replacement Therapy AVALIDE may be substituted for the titrated components. 2.4 Initial Therapy The usual starting dose is AVALIDE 150/12.5 mg once daily. The dosage can be increased after 1 to 2 weeks of therapy to a maximum of 300/25 mg once daily as needed to control blood pressure [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . AVALIDE is not recommended as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Indication Dose Hypertension ( 2.2 ) 150 mg to 300 mg once daily Diabetic Nephropathy ( 2.3 ) 300 mg once daily 2.1 General Considerations Irbesartan tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents and with or without food. 2.4 Dose Adjustment in Volume- and Salt-Depleted Patients The recommended initial dose is 75 mg once daily in patients with depletion of intravascular volume or salt (e.g., patients treated vigorously with diuretics or on hemodialysis) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION General Considerations • Maximum effects within 2 to 4 weeks after dose change. ( 2.1 ) • Renal impairment: Not recommended for patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/min). ( 2.1 , 5.8 ) Hypertension • Initiate with 150/12.5 mg. ( 2.2 ) • Replacement therapy: May be substituted for titrated components. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 General Considerations The side effects of irbesartan are generally rare and apparently independent of dose; those of hydrochlorothiazide are a mixture of dose-dependent (primarily hypokalemia) and dose-independent phenomena (e.g., pancreatitis), the former much more common than the latter [see Adverse Reactions ( 6 )]. Maximum antihypertensive effects are attained within 2 to 4 weeks after a change in dose. Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide may be administered with or without food. Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. Renal Impairment The usual regimens of therapy with irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide may be followed as long as the patient's creatinine clearance is >30 mL/min. In patients with more severe renal impairment, loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides, so irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide is not recommended. 2.2 Add-On Therapy In patients not controlled on monotherapy with irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide, the recommended doses of irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide, in order of increasing mean effect, are (irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide) 150/12.5 mg, 300/12.5 mg, and 300/25 mg. The largest incremental effect will likely be in the transition from monotherapy to 150/12.5 mg [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. 2.3 Replacement Therapy Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide may be substituted for the titrated components. 2.4 Initial Therapy The usual starting dose is irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide 150 mg/12.5 mg once daily. The dosage can be increased after 1 to 2 weeks of therapy to a maximum of 300 mg/25 mg once daily as needed to control blood pressure [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide is not recommended as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. ( 2.1 , 5.8 ) Hypertension Initiate with 150 mg/12.5 mg. Titrate to 300 mg/12.5 mg then 300 mg/25 mg if needed. [See Adverse Reactions ( 6 ).] Maximum antihypertensive effects are attained within 2 to 4 weeks after a change in dose. Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be administered with or without food. Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. Renal Impairment The usual regimens of therapy with irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be followed as long as the patient's creatinine clearance is >30 mL/min. In patients with more severe renal impairment, loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides, so irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not recommended. 2.2 Add-On Therapy In patients not controlled on monotherapy with irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide, the recommended doses of irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, in order of increasing mean effect, are (irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide) 150 mg/12.5 mg, 300 mg/12.5 mg, and 300 mg/25 mg. The largest incremental effect will likely be in the transition from monotherapy to 150 mg/12.5 mg. [See Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ).] 2.3 Replacement Therapy Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be substituted for the titrated components. 2.4 Initial Therapy The usual starting dose is irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 150 mg/12.5 mg once daily. The dosage can be increased after 1 to 2 weeks of therapy to a maximum of 300 mg/25 mg once daily as needed to control blood pressure [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not recommended as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. [ See Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) .] Maximum antihypertensive effects are attained within 2 to 4 weeks after a change in dose. 2.2 Add-On Therapy In patients not controlled on monotherapy with irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide, the recommended doses of irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, in order of increasing mean effect, are (irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide) 150/12.5 mg, 300/12.5 mg, and 300/25 mg. [See Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) .] 2.3 Replacement Therapy Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be substituted for the titrated components. 2.4 Initial Therapy The usual starting dose is irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 150/12.5 mg once daily. The dosage can be increased after 1 to 2 weeks of therapy to a maximum of 300/25 mg once daily as needed to control blood pressure [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ]. Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not recommended as initial therapy in patients with intravascular volume depletion [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ].
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Irbesartan tablets are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. Do not coadministrate aliskiren with irbesartan tablets in patients with diabetes. Hypersensitivity to any component of this product. ( 4 ) Coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Irbesartan is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. Do not coadminister aliskiren with irbesartan in patients with diabetes. (4) Coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes. (4) Do not co-administrate aliskiren with Irbesartan Tablets in patients with diabetes. • Hypersensitivity to any component of this product. (4) • Co-administration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes. Do not coadminister aliskiren with irbesartan tablets in patients with diabetes. ( 4 ) • Coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS AVALIDE is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. Because of the hydrochlorothiazide component, this product is contraindicated in patients with anuria or hypersensitivity to other sulfonamide-derived drugs. Do not coadminister aliskiren with AVALIDE in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . ( 4 ) Anuria. ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to sulfonamide-derived drugs. ( 4 ) Do not coadminister aliskiren with AVALIDE in patients with diabetes. ( 4 ) • Co-administration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. • Because of the hydrochlorothiazide component, this product is contraindicated in patients with anuria or hypersensitivity to other sulfonamide-derived drugs. • Do not coadminister aliskiren with irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. ( 4 ) • Anuria. ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to sulfonamide-derived drugs. ( 4 ) • Do not coadminister aliskiren with irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any component of this product. ( 4 ) Do not coadminister aliskiren with irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. ( 4 ) Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. Do not coadminister aliskiren with irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. Do not coadminister aliskiren with irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] . ( 4 ) • Do not coadminister aliskiren with irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity. ( 7 ) Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) and COX-2 inhibitors: Increased risk of renal impairment. Reduced antihypertensive effects. ( 7 ) Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia. ( 7 ) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of irbesartan tablets with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia, sometimes severe. Monitor serum potassium in such patients. 7.2 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported with concomitant use of irbesartan and lithium. Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving irbesartan and lithium. 7.3 Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including irbesartan) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving irbesartan and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including irbesartan, may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. 7.4 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on irbesartan tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with irbesartan tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with irbesartan tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). 1 (7) Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) and COX-2 inhibitors: Increased risk of renal impairment. (7) Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia. (7) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of irbesartan with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia, sometimes severe. 7.3 Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including irbesartan) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on irbesartan and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with irbesartan in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with irbesartan in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min) 1 . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity (7) • Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) and COX-2 inhibitors: Increased risk of renal impairment. (7) • Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia. (7) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of Irbesartan Tablets with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia, sometimes severe. 7.3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including irbesartan) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Do not co-administer aliskiren with Irbesartan Tablets in patients with diabetes. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity. ( 7 ) • Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) and COX-2 inhibitors: Increased risk of renal impairment. ( 7 ) • Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia. ( 7 ) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of irbesartan with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia, sometimes severe. Avoid use of aliskiren with irbesartan in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS NSAIDs and selective COX-2 inhibitors: Can reduce diuretic, natriuretic of diuretic, may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and reduced antihypertensive effect. Monitor renal function periodically. ( 7 ) Antidiabetic drugs: Dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required. ( 7 ) Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides. ( 7 ) Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity. ( 7 ) Carbamazepine: Increased risk of hyponatremia. ( 7 ) 7.1 Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) Irbesartan In patients who are elderly, volume depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including irbesartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Therefore, monitor renal function and blood pressure periodically in patients receiving irbesartan and NSAID therapy. Hydrochlorothiazide Administration of a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent, including a selective COX-2 inhibitor can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing, and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when AVALIDE (irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide) tablets and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. 7.2 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin-receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on AVALIDE and other agents that affect the RAS. In most patients no benefit has been associated with using two RAS inhibitors concomitantly. Do not coadminister aliskiren with AVALIDE in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with AVALIDE in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). 7.3 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of AVALIDE with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia, sometimes severe. 7.4 Antidiabetic Drugs (oral agents and insulin) Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required when coadministered with hydrochlorothiazide. 7.5 Cholestyramine and Colestipol Resins Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Stagger the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and the resin such that AVALIDE is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of the resin. 7.6 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported with concomitant use of irbesartan or thiazide diuretics. Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving AVALIDE and lithium. 7.7 Carbamazepine Concomitant use of carbamazepine and hydrochlorothiazide has been associated with the risk of symptomatic hyponatremia. Monitor electrolytes during concomitant use. Do not co-administer aliskiren with irbesartan in patients with diabetes. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • NSAIDs and selective COX-2 inhibitors: Can reduce diuretic, natriuretic of diuretic, may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and reduced antihypertensive effect. ( 7 ) • Antidiabetic drugs: Dosage adjustment of antidiabetic may be required. ( 7 ) • Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides. ( 7 ) • Lithium: Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity. ( 7 ) • Carbamazepine: Increased risk of hyponatremia. Therefore, when irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). 7.3 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia, sometimes severe. Stagger the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and the resin such that irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of the resin. Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide and lithium. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). 7.3 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia, sometimes severe. Stagger the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and the resin such that irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of the resin. Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and lithium.

=== METHYLPREDNISOLONE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose: Purpose: First aid antiseptic to help prevent skin infection in minor cuts, scrapes and burns. For preparation of the skin prior to surgery. Helps reduce bacteria that can potentially cause skin infections. Purpose Antiseptic
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection is indicated in adults for the production of local or regional anesthesia or analgesia for surgery, dental and oral surgery procedures, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and for obstetrical procedures. Specific concentrations and presentations of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection are recommended for each type of block indicated to produce local or regional anesthesia or analgesia [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection contains bupivacaine, an amide local anesthetic. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection is indicated in adults for the production of local or regional anesthesia or analgesia for surgery, dental and oral surgery procedures, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and for obstetrical procedures. For each type of block indicated to produce local or regional anesthesia or analgesia, specific concentrations and presentations are recommended. ( 1 , 2.2 ) Limitations of Use Not all blocks are indicated for use with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection given clinically significant risks associated with use. ( 1 , 2.2 , 4 , 5.1 , 5.4 , 5.5 , 5.7 , 5.9 ) Limitations of Use Not all blocks are indicated for use with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection given clinically significant risks associated with use [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.4 , 5.5 , 5.7 , 5.9) ] . INDICATIONS AND USAGE A. For Intramuscular Administration When oral therapy is not feasible and the strength, dosage form, and route of administration of the drug reasonably lend the preparation to the treatment of the condition, the intramuscular use of methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is indicated as follows: Allergic States : Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment in asthma, atopic dermatitis, contact dermatitis, drug hypersensitivity reactions, serum sickness, transfusion reactions. Dermatologic Diseases : Bullous dermatitis herpetiformis, exfoliative dermatitis, mycosis fungoides, pemphigus, severe erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson syndrome). Endocrine Disorders : Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the drug of choice; synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable; in infancy, mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance), congenital adrenal hyperplasia, hypercalcemia associated with cancer, nonsupportive thyroiditis. Gastrointestinal Diseases : To tide the patient over a critical period of the disease in regional enteritis (systemic therapy) and ulcerative colitis. Hematologic Disorders : Acquired (autoimmune) hemolytic anemia, congenital (erythroid) hypoplastic anemia (Diamond Blackfan anemia), pure red cell aplasia, select cases of secondary thrombocytopenia. Miscellaneous : Trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement, tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy. Neoplastic Diseases : For palliative management of: leukemias and lymphomas. Nervous System : Cerebral edema associated with primary or metastatic brain tumor or craniotomy. Ophthalmic Diseases : Sympathetic ophthalmia, temporal arteritis, uveitis, ocular inflammatory conditions unresponsive to topical corticosteroids. Renal Diseases : To induce diuresis or remission of proteinuria in idiopathic nephrotic syndrome, or that due to lupus erythematosus. Respiratory Diseases : Berylliosis, fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy, idiopathic eosinophilic pneumonias, symptomatic sarcoidosis. Rheumatic Disorders : As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in acute gouty arthritis; acute rheumatic carditis; ankylosing spondylitis; psoriatic arthritis; rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low-dose maintenance therapy). For the treatment of dermatomyositis, polymyositis, and systemic lupus erythematosus. B. For Intra-articular Or Soft Tissue Administration ( See WARNINGS ) Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is indicated as adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in acute gouty arthritis, acute and subacute bursitis, acute nonspecific tenosynovitis, epicondylitis, rheumatoid arthritis, synovitis of osteoarthritis. C. For Intralesional Administration Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is indicated for intralesional use in alopecia areata, discoid lupus erythematosus; keloids, localized hypertrophic, infiltrated inflammatory lesions of granuloma annulare, lichen planus, lichen simplex chronicus (neurodermatitis) and psoriatic plaques; necrobiosis lipoidica diabeticorum. Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension also may be useful in cystic tumors of an aponeurosis or tendon (ganglia). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lidocaine hydrochloride injection is indicated for production of local or regional anesthesia by infiltration techniques such as percutaneous injection and intravenous regional anesthesia by peripheral nerve block techniques such as brachial plexus and intercostal and by central neural techniques such as lumbar and caudal epidural blocks, when the accepted procedures for these techniques as described in standard textbooks are observed. For use as an first aid antiseptic pre-operative skin preperation INDICATIONS AND USAGE This parenteral preparation is indicated only for diluting or dissolving drugs for intravenous, intramuscular or subcutaneous injection, according to instructions of the manufacturer of the drug to be administered. Uses For first aid to decrease germs in minor cuts scrapes burns For preparation of the skin prior to injection INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methylprednisolone tablets are indicated in the following conditions: 1. Endocrine Disorders Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the first choice; synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable; in infancy mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance). Congenital adrenal hyperplasia Nonsuppurative thyroiditis Hypercalcemia associated with cancer 2. Rheumatic Disorders As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in: Rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low-dose maintenance therapy) Ankylosing spondylitis Acute and subacute bursitis Synovitis of osteoarthritis Acute nonspecific tenosynovitis Post-traumatic osteoarthritis Psoriatic arthritis Epicondylitis Acute gouty arthritis 3. Collagen Diseases During an exacerbation or as maintenance therapy in selected cases of: Systemic lupus erythematosus Systemic dermatomyositis (polymyositis) Acute rheumatic carditis 4. Dermatologic Diseases Bullous dermatitis herpetiformis Severe erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson syndrome) Severe seborrheic dermatitis Exfoliative dermatitis Mycosis fungoides Pemphigus Severe psoriasis 5. Allergic States Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment: Seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis Drug hypersensitivity reactions Serum sickness Contact dermatitis Bronchial asthma Atopic dermatitis 6. Ophthalmic Diseases Severe acute and chronic allergic and inflammatory processes involving the eye and its adnexa such as: Allergic corneal marginal ulcers Herpes zoster ophthalmicus Anterior segment inflammation Diffuse posterior uveitis and choroiditis Sympathetic ophthalmia Keratitis Optic neuritis Allergic conjunctivitis Chorioretinitis Iritis and iridocyclitis 7. Respiratory Diseases Symptomatic sarcoidosis Berylliosis Loeffler’s syndrome not manageable by other means Fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy Aspiration pneumonitis 8. Hematologic Disorders Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura in adults Secondary thrombocytopenia in adults Acquired (autoimmune) hemolytic anemia Erythroblastopenia (RBC anemia) Congenital (erythroid) hypoplastic anemia 9. Neoplastic Diseases For palliative management of: Leukemias and lymphomas in adults Acute leukemia of childhood 10. Edematous States To induce a diuresis or remission of proteinuria in the nephrotic syndrome, without uremia, of the idiopathic type or that due to lupus erythematosus. 11. Gastrointestinal Diseases To tide the patient over a critical period of the disease in: Ulcerative colitis Regional enteritis 12. Nervous System Acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis 13. Miscellaneous Tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy. Trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement. INDICATIONS AND USAGE When oral therapy is not feasible, and the strength, dosage form, and route of administration of the drug reasonably lend the preparation to the treatment of the condition, the intravenous or intramuscular use of Methylprednisolone Sodium Succinate for Injection is indicated as follows: Allergic states Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment in asthma, atopic dermatitis, contact dermatitis, drug hypersensitivity reactions, serum sickness, transfusion reactions. Dermatologic diseases Bullous dermatitis herpetiformis, exfoliative erythroderma, mycosis fungoides, pemphigus, severe erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson syndrome). Endocrine disorders Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the drug of choice; synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable; in infancy, mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance), congenital adrenal hyperplasia, hypercalcemia associated with cancer, nonsuppurative thyroiditis. Gastrointestinal diseases To tide the patient over a critical period of the disease in regional enteritis (systemic therapy) and ulcerative colitis. Hematologic disorders Acquired (autoimmune) hemolytic anemia, congenital (erythroid) hypoplastic anemia (Diamond-Blackfan anemia), idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura in adults (intravenous administration only; intramuscular administration is contraindicated), pure red cell aplasia, selected cases of secondary thrombocytopenia. Miscellaneous Trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement, tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy. Neoplastic diseases For the palliative management of leukemias and lymphomas. Nervous System Acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis; cerebral edema associated with primary or metastatic brain tumor, or craniotomy. Ophthalmic diseases Sympathetic ophthalmia, uveitis and ocular inflammatory conditions unresponsive to topical corticosteroids. Renal diseases To induce diuresis or remission of proteinuria in idiopathic nephrotic syndrome or that due to lupus erythematosus. Respiratory diseases Berylliosis, fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy, idiopathic eosinophilic pneumonias, symptomatic sarcoidosis. Rheumatic disorders As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in acute gouty arthritis; acute rheumatic carditis; ankylosing spondylitis; psoriatic arthritis; rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low-dose maintenance therapy). For the treatment of dermatomyositis, temporal arteritis, polymyositis, and systemic lupus erythematosus. INDICATIONS AND USAGE When oral therapy is not feasible, and the strength, dosage form, and route of administration of the drug reasonably lend the preparation to the treatment of the condition, the intravenous or intramuscular use of Methylprednisolone Sodium Succinate for Injection, USP, is indicated as follows: Allergic states Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment in asthma, atopic dermatitis, contact dermatitis, drug hypersensitivity reactions, perennial or seasonal allergic rhinitis, serum sickness, transfusion reactions. For Intramuscular Administration When oral therapy is not feasible and the strength, dosage form, and route of administration of the drug reasonably lend the preparation to the treatment of the condition, the intramuscular use of methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is indicated as follows: Allergic States: Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment in asthma, atopic dermatitis, contact dermatitis, drug hypersensitivity reactions, serum sickness, transfusion reactions. Dermatologic Diseases: Bullous dermatitis herpetiformis, exfoliative dermatitis, mycosis fungoides, pemphigus, severe erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson syndrome). Endocrine Disorders: Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the drug of choice; synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable; in infancy, mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance), congenital adrenal hyperplasia, hypercalcemia associated with cancer, nonsupportive thyroiditis. Gastrointestinal Diseases: To tide the patient over a critical period of the disease in regional enteritis (systemic therapy) and ulcerative colitis. Hematologic Disorders: Acquired (autoimmune) hemolytic anemia, congenital (erythroid) hypoplastic anemia (Diamond Blackfan anemia), pure red cell aplasia, select cases of secondary thrombocytopenia. Miscellaneous: Trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement, tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy. Neoplastic Diseases: For palliative management of: leukemias and lymphomas. Nervous System: Cerebral edema associated with primary or metastatic brain tumor or craniotomy. Ophthalmic Diseases: Sympathetic ophthalmia, temporal arteritis, uveitis, ocular inflammatory conditions unresponsive to topical corticosteroids. Renal Diseases: To induce diuresis or remission of proteinuria in idiopathic nephrotic syndrome, or that due to lupus erythematosus. Respiratory Diseases: Berylliosis, fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy, idiopathic eosinophilic pneumonias, symptomatic sarcoidosis. Rheumatic Disorders: As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in acute gouty arthritis; acute rheumatic carditis; ankylosing spondylitis; psoriatic arthritis; rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low-dose maintenance therapy). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methylprednisolone tablets are indicated in the following conditions: 1.Endocrine Disorders Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone is the first choice; synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction with mineralocorticoids where applicable; in infancy mineralocorticoid supplementation is of particular importance). Congenital adrenal hyperplasia Nonsuppurative thyroiditis Hypercalcemia associated with cancer 2.Rheumatic Disorders As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in: Rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low-dose maintenance therapy) Ankylosing spondylitis Acute and subacute bursitis Synovitis of osteoarthritis Acute nonspecific tenosynovitis Post-traumatic osteoarthritis Psoriatic arthritis Epicondylitis Acute gouty arthritis 3.Collagen Diseases During an exacerbation or as maintenance therapy in selected cases of: Systemic lupus erythematosus Systemic dermatomyositis (polymyositis) Acute rheumatic carditis 4.Dermatologic Diseases Bullous dermatitis herpetiformis Severe erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson syndrome) Severe seborrheic dermatitis Exfoliative dermatitis Mycosis fungoides Pemphigus Severe psoriasis 5.Allergic States Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate trials of conventional treatment: Seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis Drug hypersensitivity reactions Serum sickness Contact dermatitis Bronchial asthma Atopic dermatitis 6.Ophthalmic Diseases Severe acute and chronic allergic and inflammatory processes involving the eye and its adnexa such as: Allergic corneal marginal ulcers Herpes zoster ophthalmicus Anterior segment inflammation Diffuse posterior uveitis and choroiditis Sympathetic ophthalmia Keratitis Optic neuritis Allergic conjunctivitis Chorioretinitis Iritis and iridocyclitis 7.Respiratory Diseases Symptomatic sarcoidosis Berylliosis Loeffler's syndrome not manageable by other means Fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy Aspiration pneumonitis 8.Hematologic Disorders Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura in adults Secondary thrombocytopenia in adults Acquired (autoimmune) hemolytic anemia Erythroblastopenia (RBC anemia) Congenital (erythroid) hypoplastic anemia 9.Neoplastic Diseases For palliative management of: Leukemias and lymphomas in adults Acute leukemia of childhood 10.Edematous States To induce a diuresis or remission of proteinuria in the nephrotic syndrome, without uremia, of the idiopathic type or that due to lupus erythematosus. 11.Gastrointestinal Diseases To tide the patient over a critical period of the disease in: Ulcerative colitis Regional enteritis 12.Nervous System Acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis 13.Miscellaneous Tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Not for intrathecal use. ( 2.1 ) Avoid use of solutions containing antimicrobial preservatives (i.e., multiple-dose vials) for epidural or caudal anesthesia. ( 2.1 , 5.4 ) Three mL of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection without antimicrobial preservative (0.5% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine) is recommended for use as a test dose prior to caudal and lumbar epidural blocks when clinical conditions permit. ( 2.4 ) See full prescribing information for: Recommended concentrations and dosages of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection according to type of block. ( 2.2 ) Additional dosage and administration information pertaining to use in epidural anesthesia, test dose for caudal and lumbar epidural blocks, use in dentistry, and use in ophthalmic surgery. ( 2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is not for intrathecal use. Avoid use of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection solutions containing antimicrobial preservatives (i.e., multiple-dose vials) for epidural or caudal anesthesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Discard unused portions of solution not containing preservatives, i.e., those supplied in single-dose vials, following initial use. Visually inspect this product for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection are clear, colorless solutions. Do not administer solutions which are discolored or contain particulate matter. Mixing or the prior or intercurrent use of any other local anesthetic with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is not recommended because of insufficient data on the clinical use of such mixtures. Administration Precautions Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection are to be administered in carefully adjusted dosages by or under the supervision of experienced clinicians who are well versed in the diagnosis and management of dose-related toxicity and other acute emergencies which might arise from the block to be employed. Use Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection only if the following are immediately available: oxygen, cardiopulmonary resuscitative equipment and drugs, and the personnel resources needed for proper management of toxic reactions and related emergencies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6) , Overdosage (10) ] . The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. Monitor for neurologic and cardiovascular effects related to local anesthetic systemic toxicity when additional local anesthetics are administered with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Drug Interactions (7.1) , Overdosage (10) ] . Aspirate for blood or cerebrospinal fluid (where applicable) prior to injecting Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection, both the initial dose and all subsequent doses, to avoid intravascular or intrathecal injection. However, a negative aspiration for blood or cerebrospinal fluid does not ensure against an intravascular or intrathecal injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . Avoid rapid injection of a large volume of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and use fractional (incremental) doses when feasible. During major regional nerve blocks, such as those of the brachial plexus or lower extremity, the patient should have an indwelling intravenous catheter to assure adequate intravenous access. The lowest dosage of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection that results in effective anesthesia should be used to avoid high plasma levels and serious adverse reactions. Perform careful and constant monitoring of cardiovascular and respiratory (adequacy of oxygenation and ventilation) vital signs and the patient's level of consciousness after each local anesthetic injection. Use Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection in carefully restricted quantities in areas of the body supplied by end arteries or having otherwise compromised blood supply such as digits, nose, external ear, or penis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . 2.2 Recommended Concentrations and Dosages of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection The dosage of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection administered varies with the anesthetic procedure, the area to be anesthetized, the vascularity of the tissues, the number of neuronal segments to be blocked, the depth of anesthesia and degree of muscle relaxation required, the duration of anesthesia desired, individual tolerance, and the physical condition of the patient. Administer the smallest dosage and concentration required to produce the desired result. The types of block and recommended Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection concentrations are shown in Table 1. Table 1. Types of Block and Recommended Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection Concentrations Type of Block Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) is not recommended for nonobstetrical surgical procedures in pregnant patients. 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 0.5% (5 mg/mL) ✓= indicated use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Local infiltration ✓ ✓ Peripheral nerve block ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Retrobulbar block ✓ Sympathetic block ✓ Caudal block Avoid use of multiple-dose vials of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection for caudal or epidural anesthesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] . ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Lumbar epidural block ✓ ✓ ✓ (not for obstetrical anesthesia) ✓ ✓ Epidural test dose ✓ Dental block ✓ At recommended dosages, Bupivacaine Hydrochloride/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine produces complete sensory block, but the effect on motor function differs among the three concentrations. Table 2 provides information on the expected effect on motor function for the three concentrations. Table 2. Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection Concentration vs. Motor Function Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Concentration Motor Function 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) These products include Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection [the epinephrine concentration (1:200,000) is not included in the table]. When used for caudal, epidural, or peripheral nerve block, produces incomplete motor block. Should be used for operations in which muscle relaxation is not important, or when another means of providing muscle relaxation is used concurrently. Onset of action may be slower than with the 0.5% (5 mg/mL) or 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) solutions. 0.5% (5 mg/mL) Provides motor blockade for caudal, epidural, or nerve block, but muscle relaxation may be inadequate for operations in which complete muscle relaxation is essential. 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) These are only Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection products [there is no 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) concentration for Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection]. Produces complete motor block. Most useful for epidural block in abdominal operations requiring complete muscle relaxation, and for retrobulbar anesthesia. Not for obstetrical anesthesia. The duration of anesthesia with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is such that for most indications, a single-dose is sufficient. The maximum dosage limit within the recommended dosage range must be individualized in each case after evaluating the size and physical status of the patient, as well as the anticipated rate of systemic absorption from a particular injection site. The dosages in Table 3 are recommended as a guide for use in the average adult. These doses may be repeated once every three hours. Do not exceed a total daily dosage of 400 mg in 24 hours. The duration of anesthetic effect may be prolonged by the addition of epinephrine. Table 3. Recommended Concentrations and Doses of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection in Adults Type of Block Concentration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Each Dose Motor Block With continuous (intermittent) techniques, repeat doses increase the degree of motor block. The first repeat dose of 0.5% (5 mg/mL) may produce complete motor block. Intercostal nerve block with 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) also may produce complete motor block for intra-thoracic and upper intra-abdominal surgery. mL mg of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection Local infiltration 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) Solutions with or without epinephrine (i.e., applies to Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection). The Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection products include epinephrine (1:200,000). Up to 70 (without epinephrine) Up to 175 (without epinephrine) ― Up to 90 (with epinephrine) Up to 225 (with epinephrine) Peripheral nerve block 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 5–35 (without epinephrine) 25–175 (without epinephrine) moderate to complete 5–45 (with epinephrine) 25–225 (with epinephrine) 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 5–70 (without epinephrine) 12.5–175 (without epinephrine) moderate to complete 5–90 (with epinephrine) 12.5–225 (with epinephrine) Retrobulbar block [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) 2–4 15–30 complete Sympathetic block 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 20–50 50–125 ― Caudal block [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 15–30 75–150 moderate to complete 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 15–30 37.5–75 moderate Lumbar epidural block [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) For single-dose use; not for intermittent epidural technique. 10–20 75–150 complete 0.5% (5 mg/mL) 10–20 50–100 moderate to complete 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) 10–20 25–50 partial to moderate Epidural test dose [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] 0.5% (5 mg/mL) with epinephrine 2–3 10–15 (10–15 micrograms epinephrine) ― Dental [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] 0.5% (5 mg/mL) with epinephrine 1.8–3.6 per site 9–18 per site ― 2.3 Use in Epidural Anesthesia During the administration of epidural anesthesia, it is recommended that a test dose of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection without antimicrobial preservative (0.5% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine) be administered initially and the effects monitored before the full dose is given. When using a "continuous" catheter technique, test doses should be given prior to both the initial and all supplemental doses, because a catheter in the epidural space can migrate into a blood vessel or through the dura [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . During epidural administration, administer Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection, 0.5% (5 mg/mL) and Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) solutions in incremental doses of 3 mL to 5 mL with sufficient time between doses to detect toxic manifestations of unintentional intravascular or intrathecal injection. Administer injections slowly, with frequent aspirations before and during the injection to avoid intravascular injection. Perform syringe aspirations before and during each supplemental injection in continuous (intermittent) catheter techniques. In obstetrics, use ONLY the 0.5% (5 mg/mL) and 0.25% (2.5 mg/mL) concentrations of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]; incremental doses of 3 mL to 5 mL of the 0.5% (5 mg/mL) solution not exceeding 50 mg to 100 mg at any dosing interval are recommended. Repeat doses should be preceded by a test dose containing epinephrine if not clinically contraindicated. Use only the single-dose vials for caudal or epidural anesthesia; avoid use of the multiple-dose vials for these procedures, which contain a preservative [see Dosage and Administration (2.1 , 2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.4 , 5.9) ] . 2.4 Test Dose for Caudal and Lumbar Epidural Blocks Three mL of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection without antimicrobial preservative (0.5% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine) is recommended for use as a test dose prior to caudal and lumbar epidural blocks when clinical conditions permit. This test dose may serve as a warning of unintended intravascular or intrathecal injection. Closely monitor for early clinical signs of toxicity following each test dose [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . Allot adequate time for onset of spinal block to detect possible intrathecal injection. An intravascular or intrathecal injection is still possible even if results of the test dose are negative. The test dose itself may produce a systemic toxic reaction, high spinal, or cardiovascular effects from the epinephrine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.9) , Overdosage (10) ]. 2.5 Use in Dentistry Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection 0.5% (5 mg/mL) is recommended for infiltration and block injection in the maxillary and mandibular area when a longer duration of local anesthesia is desired, such as for procedures generally associated with significant postoperative pain. The average dose of 1.8 mL (9 mg) per injection site will usually suffice; an occasional second dose of 1.8 mL (9 mg) may be used if necessary to produce adequate anesthesia after allowing 2 to 10 minutes for block onset [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Use the lowest effective dose and allow time between injections; it is recommended that the total dose for all injection sites, spread out over a single dental sitting, not exceed 90 mg for a healthy adult patient (ten 1.8 mL injections of 0.5% (5 mg/mL) Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection). Inject slowly and with frequent aspirations. 2.6 Use in Ophthalmic Surgery When Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection 0.75% (7.5 mg/mL) is used for retrobulbar block, complete corneal anesthesia usually precedes onset of clinically acceptable external ocular muscle akinesia. Therefore, presence of akinesia rather than anesthesia alone should determine readiness of the patient for surgery [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15) ] . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Because of possible physical incompatibilities, methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension should not be diluted or mixed with other solutions. The initial dosage of parenterally administered methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension will vary from 4 mg to 120 mg, depending on the specific disease entity being treated. However, in certain overwhelming, acute, life-threatening situations, administration in dosages exceeding the usual dosages may be justified and may be in multiples of the oral dosages. It Should Be Emphasized that Dosage Requirements Are Variable and Must Be Individualized on the Basis of the Disease Under Treatment and the Response of the Patient. After a favorable response is noted, the proper maintenance dosage should be determined by decreasing the initial drug dosage in small decrements at appropriate time intervals until the lowest dosage which will maintain an adequate clinical response is reached. Situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process, the patient’s individual drug responsiveness, and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease entity under treatment. In this latter situation, it may be necessary to increase the dosage of the corticosteroid for a period of time consistent with the patient’s condition. If after long-term therapy the drug is to be stopped, it is recommended that it be withdrawn gradually rather than abruptly. A. Administration for Local Effect Therapy with methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension does not obviate the need for the conventional measures usually employed. Although this method of treatment will ameliorate symptoms, it is in no sense a cure and the hormone has no effect on the cause of the inflammation. 1. Rheumatoid Arthritis and Osteoarthritis. The dose for intra-articular administration depends upon the size of the joint and varies with the severity of the condition in the individual patient. In chronic cases, injections may be repeated at intervals ranging from one to five or more weeks, depending upon the degree of relief obtained from the initial injection. The doses in the following table are given as a general guide: Size of Joint Examples Range of Dosage Large Knees Ankles Shoulders 20 mg to 80 mg Medium Elbows Wrists 10 mg to 40 mg Small Metacarpophalangeal Interphalangeal Sternoclavicular Acromioclavicular 4 mg to 10 mg Procedure: It is recommended that the anatomy of the joint involved be reviewed before attempting intra-articular injection. In order to obtain the full anti-inflammatory effect, it is important that the injection be made into the synovial space. Employing the same sterile technique as for a lumbar puncture, a sterile 20 to 24 gauge needle (on a dry syringe) is quickly inserted into the synovial cavity. Procaine infiltration is elective. The aspiration of only a few drops of joint fluid proves the joint space has been entered by the needle. The injection site for each joint is determined by that location where the synovial cavity is most superficial and most free of large vessels and nerves. With the needle in place, the aspirating syringe is removed and replaced by a second syringe containing the desired amount of methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension. The plunger is then pulled outward slightly to aspirate synovial fluid and to make sure the needle is still in the synovial space. After injection, the joint is moved gently a few times to aid mixing of the synovial fluid and the suspension. The site is covered with a small sterile dressing. Suitable sites for intra-articular injection are the knee, ankle, wrist, elbow, shoulder, phalangeal, and hip joints. Since difficulty is not infrequently encountered in entering the hip joint, precautions should be taken to avoid any large blood vessels in the area. Joints not suitable for injection are those that are anatomically inaccessible such as the spinal joints and those like the sacroiliac joints that are devoid of synovial space. Treatment failures are most frequently the result of failure to enter the joint space. Little or no benefit follows injection into surrounding tissue. If failures occur when injections into the synovial spaces are certain, as determined by aspiration of fluid, repeated injections are usually futile. If a local anesthetic is used prior to injection of methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension, the anesthetic package insert should be read carefully and all the precautions observed. 2. Bursitis . The area around the injection site is prepared in a sterile way and a wheal at the site made with 1 percent procaine hydrochloride solution. A 20 to 24 gauge needle attached to a dry syringe is inserted into the bursa and the fluid aspirated. The needle is left in place and the aspirating syringe changed for a small syringe containing the desired dose. After injection, the needle is withdrawn and a small dressing applied. 3. Miscellaneous: Ganglion, Tendinitis, Epicondylitis. In the treatment of conditions such as tendinitis or tenosynovitis, care should be taken following application of a suitable antiseptic to the overlying skin to inject the suspension into the tendon sheath rather than into the substance of the tendon. The tendon may be readily palpated when placed on a stretch. When treating conditions such as epicondylitis, the area of greatest tenderness should be outlined carefully and the suspension infiltrated into the area. For ganglia of the tendon sheaths, the suspension is injected directly into the cyst. In many cases, a single injection causes a marked decrease in the size of the cystic tumor and may effect disappearance. The usual sterile precautions should be observed, of course, with each injection. The dose in the treatment of the various conditions of the tendinous or bursal structures listed above varies with the condition being treated and ranges from 4 mg to 30 mg. In recurrent or chronic conditions, repeated injections may be necessary. 4. Injections for Local Effect in Dermatologic Conditions . Following cleansing with an appropriate antiseptic such as 70% alcohol, 20 mg to 60 mg is injected into the lesion. It may be necessary to distribute doses ranging from 20 mg to 40 mg by repeated local injections in the case of large lesions. Care should be taken to avoid injection of sufficient material to cause blanching since this may be followed by a small slough. One to four injections are usually employed, the intervals between injections varying with the type of lesion being treated and the duration of improvement produced by the initial injection. B. Administration for Systemic Effect The intramuscular dosage will vary with the condition being treated. When employed as a temporary substitute for oral therapy, a single injection during each 24-hour period of a dose of the suspension equal to the total daily oral dose of methylprednisolone tablets, USP is usually sufficient. When a prolonged effect is desired, the weekly dose may be calculated by multiplying the daily oral dose by 7 and given as a single intramuscular injection. In pediatric patients, the initial dose of methylprednisolone may vary depending on the specific disease entity being treated. Dosage must be individualized according to the severity of the disease and response of the patient. The recommended dosage may be reduced for pediatric patients, but dosage should be governed by the severity of the condition rather than by strict adherence to the ratio indicated by age or body weight. In patients with the adrenogenital syndrome , a single intramuscular injection of 40 mg every two weeks may be adequate. For maintenance of patients with rheumatoid arthritis , the weekly intramuscular dose will vary from 40 mg to 120 mg. The usual dosage for patients with dermatologic lesions benefited by systemic corticoid therapy is 40 mg to 120 mg of methylprednisolone acetate administered intramuscularly at weekly intervals for one to four weeks. In acute severe dermatitis due to poison ivy, relief may result within 8 to 12 hours following intramuscular administration of a single-dose of 80 mg to 120 mg. In chronic contact dermatitis, repeated injections at 5 to 10 day intervals may be necessary. In seborrheic dermatitis, a weekly dose of 80 mg may be adequate to control the condition. Following intramuscular administration of 80 mg to 120 mg to asthmatic patients, relief may result within 6 to 48 hours and persist for several days to two weeks. If signs of stress are associated with the condition being treated, the dosage of the suspension should be increased. If a rapid hormonal effect of maximum intensity is required, the intravenous administration of highly soluble methylprednisolone sodium succinate is indicated. For the purpose of comparison, the following is the equivalent milligram dose of the various glucocorticoids: Cortisone, 25 Triamcinolone, 4 Hydrocortisone, 20 Paramethasone, 2 Prednisolone, 5 Betamethasone, 0.75 Prednisone, 5 Dexamethasone, 0.75 Methylprednisolone, 4 These dose relationships apply only to oral or intravenous administration of these compounds. When these substances or their derivatives are injected intramuscularly or into joint spaces, their relative properties may be greatly altered. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Table 1 (Recommended Dosages) summarizes the recommended volumes and concentrations of lidocaine hydrochloride injection for various types of anesthetic procedures. The dosages suggested in this table are for normal healthy adults and refer to the use of epinephrine-free solutions. When larger volumes are required, only solutions containing epinephrine should be used except in those cases where vasopressor drugs may be contraindicated. There have been adverse event reports of chondrolysis in patients receiving intra-articular infusions of local anesthetics following arthroscopic and other surgical procedures. Lidocaine hydrochloride injection is not approved for this use (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). These recommended doses serve only as a guide to the amount of anesthetic required for most routine procedures. The actual volumes and concentrations to be used depend on a number of factors such as type and extent of surgical procedure, depth of anesthesia and degree of muscular relaxation required, duration of anesthesia required, and the physical condition of the patient. In all cases the lowest concentration and smallest dose that will produce the desired result should be given. Dosages should be reduced for children and for the elderly and debilitated patients and patients with cardiac and/or liver disease. The onset of anesthesia, the duration of anesthesia and the degree of muscular relaxation are proportional to the volume and concentration (i.e., total dose) of local anesthetic used. Thus, an increase in volume and concentration of lidocaine hydrochloride injection will decrease the onset of anesthesia, prolong the duration of anesthesia, provide a greater degree of muscular relaxation and increase the segmental spread of anesthesia. However, increasing the volume and concentration of lidocaine hydrochloride injection may result in a more profound fall in blood pressure when used in epidural anesthesia. Although the incidence of side effects with lidocaine hydrochloride is quite low, caution should be exercised when employing large volumes and concentrations, since the incidence of side effects is directly proportional to the total dose of local anesthetic agent injected. Epidural Anesthesia For epidural anesthesia the following dosage form of lidocaine hydrochloride injection is recommended: 1% without epinephrine 30 mL single dose vials Although this solution is intended specifically for epidural anesthesia, it may also be used for infiltration and peripheral nerve block, provided it is employed as a single dose unit. This solution contains no bacteriostatic agent. In epidural anesthesia, the dosage varies with the number of dermatomes to be anesthetized (generally 2 to 3 mL of the indicated concentration per dermatome). Caudal and Lumbar Epidural Block As a precaution against the adverse experience sometimes observed following unintentional penetration of the subarachnoid space, a test dose such as 2 to 3 mL of 1.5% lidocaine hydrochloride should be administered at least 5 minutes prior to injecting the total volume required for a lumbar or caudal epidural block. The test dose should be repeated if the patient is moved in a manner that may have displaced the catheter. Epinephrine, if contained in the test dose (10 to 15 mcg have been suggested), may serve as a warning of unintentional intravascular injection. If injected into a blood vessel, this amount of epinephrine is likely to produce a transient “epinephrine response” within 45 seconds, consisting of an increase in heart rate and systolic blood pressure, circumoral pallor, palpitations and nervousness in the unsedated patient. The sedated patient may exhibit only a pulse rate increase of 20 or more beats per minute for 15 or more seconds. Patients on beta blockers may not manifest changes in heart rate, but blood pressure monitoring can detect an evanescent rise in systolic blood pressure. Adequate time should be allowed for onset of anesthesia after administration of each test dose. The rapid injection of a large volume of lidocaine hydrochloride injection through the catheter should be avoided, and, when feasible, fractional doses should be administered. In the event of the known injection of a large volume of local anesthetic solution into the subarachnoid space, after suitable resuscitation and if the catheter is in place, consider attempting the recovery of drug by draining a moderate amount of cerebrospinal fluid (such as 10 mL) through the epidural catheter. Directions Povidone iodine: Tear at notch, remove applicator, use only once. As a first aid antiseptic clean affected area apply 1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage, if bandaged let dry. For preoperative patient skin preparation clean area apply to operative site prior to surgery using the applicator DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The volume of the preparation to be used for diluting or dissolving any drug for injection, is dependent on the vehicle concentration, dose and route of administration as recommended by the manufacturer. This parenteral should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The volume of the preparation to be used for diluting or dissolving any drug for injection is dependent on the vehicle concentration, dose and route of administration as recommended by the manufacturer. Directions apply to skin as needed discard after single use DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The initial dosage of methylprednisolone tablets may vary from 4 mg to 48 mg of methylprednisolone per day depending on the specific disease entity being treated. In situations of less severity lower doses will generally suffice while in selected patients higher initial doses may be required. The initial dosage should be maintained or adjusted until a satisfactory response is noted. If after a reasonable period of time there is a lack of satisfactory clinical response, methylprednisolone tablets should be discontinued and the patient transferred to other appropriate therapy. It should be kept in mind that constant monitoring is needed in regard to drug dosage. Included in the situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process, the patient's individual drug responsiveness, and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease entity under treatment; in this latter situation it may be necessary to increase the dosage of methylprednisolone tablets for a period of time consistent with the patient's condition. Multiple Sclerosis: In treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis daily doses of 200 mg of prednisolone for a week followed by 80 mg every other day for 1 month have been shown to be effective (4 mg of methylprednisolone is equivalent to 5 mg of prednisolone). ADT ® (Alternate Day Therapy): Alternate day therapy is a corticosteroid dosing regimen in which twice the usual daily dose of corticoid is administered every other morning. The purpose of this mode of therapy is to provide the patient requiring long-term pharmacologic dose treatment with the beneficial effects of corticoids while minimizing certain undesirable effects, including pituitary-adrenal suppression, the Cushingoid state, corticoid withdrawal symptoms, and growth suppression in children. The rationale for this treatment schedule is based on two major premises: (a) the anti-inflammatory or therapeutic effect of corticoids persists longer than their physical presence and metabolic effects and (b) administration of the corticosteroid every other morning allows for reestablishment of more nearly normal hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) activity on the off-steroid day. A brief review of the HPA physiology may be helpful in understanding this rationale. Acting primarily through the hypothalamus a fall in free cortisol stimulates the pituitary gland to produce increasing amounts of corticotropin (ACTH) while a rise in free cortisol inhibits ACTH secretion. Normally the HPA system is characterized by diurnal (circadian) rhythm. Serum levels of ACTH rise from a low point about 10 pm to a peak level about 6 am. Increasing levels of ACTH stimulate adrenal cortical activity resulting in a rise in plasma cortisol with maximal levels occurring between 2 am and 8 am. This rise in cortisol dampens ACTH production and in turn adrenal cortical activity. There is a gradual fall in plasma corticoids during the day with lowest levels occurring about midnight. The diurnal rhythm of the HPA axis is lost in Cushing’s disease, a syndrome of adrenal cortical hyperfunction characterized by obesity with centripetal fat distribution, thinning of the skin with easy bruisability, muscle wasting with weakness, hypertension, latent diabetes, osteoporosis, electrolyte imbalance, etc. The same clinical findings of hyperadrenocorticism may be noted during long-term pharmacologic dose corticoid therapy administered in conventional daily divided doses. It would appear, then, that a disturbance in the diurnal cycle with maintenance of elevated corticoid values during the night may play a significant role in the development of undesirable corticoid effects. Escape from these constantly elevated plasma levels for even short periods of time may be instrumental in protecting against undesirable pharmacologic effects. During conventional pharmacologic dose corticosteroid therapy, ACTH production is inhibited with subsequent suppression of cortisol production by the adrenal cortex. Recovery time for normal HPA activity is variable depending upon the dose and duration of treatment. During this time the patient is vulnerable to any stressful situation. Although it has been shown that there is considerably less adrenal suppression following a single morning dose of prednisolone (10 mg) as opposed to a quarter of that dose administered every six hours, there is evidence that some suppressive effect on adrenal activity may be carried over into the following day when pharmacologic doses are used. Further, it has been shown that a single dose of certain corticosteroids will produce adrenal cortical suppression for two or more days. Other corticoids, including methylprednisolone, hydrocortisone, prednisone, and prednisolone, are considered to be short acting (producing adrenal cortical suppression for 1 ¼ to 1 ½ days following a single dose) and thus are recommended for alternate day therapy. The following should be kept in mind when considering alternate day therapy: 1) Basic principles and indications for corticosteroid therapy should apply. The benefits of ADT should not encourage the indiscriminate use of steroids. 2) ADT is a therapeutic technique primarily designed for patients in whom long-term pharmacologic corticoid therapy is anticipated. 3) In less severe disease processes in which corticoid therapy is indicated, it may be possible to initiate treatment with ADT. More severe disease states usually will require daily divided high dose therapy for initial control of the disease process. The initial suppressive dose level should be continued until satisfactory clinical response is obtained, usually four to ten days in the case of many allergic and collagen diseases. It is important to keep the period of initial suppressive dose as brief as possible particularly when subsequent use of alternate day therapy is intended. Once control has been established, two courses are available: (a) change to ADT and then gradually reduce the amount of corticoid given every other day or (b) following control of the disease process reduce the daily dose of corticoid to the lowest effective level as rapidly as possible and then change over to an alternate day schedule. Theoretically, course (a) may be preferable. 4) Because of the advantages of ADT, it may be desirable to try patients on this form of therapy who have been on daily corticoids for long periods of time (e.g., patients with rheumatoid arthritis). Since these patients may already have a suppressed HPA axis, establishing them on ADT may be difficult and not always successful. However, it is recommended that regular attempts be made to change them over. It may be helpful to triple or even quadruple the daily maintenance dose and administer this every other day rather than just doubling the daily dose if difficulty is encountered. Once the patient is again controlled, an attempt should be made to reduce this dose to a minimum. 5) As indicated above, certain corticosteroids, because of their prolonged suppressive effect on adrenal activity, are not recommended for alternate day therapy (e.g., dexamethasone and betamethasone). 6) The maximal activity of the adrenal cortex is between 2 am and 8 am, and it is minimal between 4 pm and midnight. Exogenous corticosteroids suppress adrenocortical activity the least, when given at the time of maximal activity (am). 7) In using ADT it is important, as in all therapeutic situations to individualize and tailor the therapy to each patient. Complete control of symptoms will not be possible in all patients. An explanation of the benefits of ADT will help the patient to understand and tolerate the possible flare-up in symptoms which may occur in the latter part of the offsteroid day. Other symptomatic therapy may be added or increased at this time if needed. 8) In the event of an acute flare-up of the disease process, it may be necessary to return to a full suppressive daily divided corticoid dose for control. Once control is again established alternate day therapy may be reinstituted. 9) Although many of the undesirable features of corticosteroid therapy can be minimized by ADT, as in any therapeutic situation, the physician must carefully weigh the benefit-risk ratio for each patient in whom corticoid therapy is being considered. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Note: Methylprednisolone sodium succinate injection when reconstituted with bacteriostatic water for injection contains benzyl alcohol (see DESCRIPTION , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use) Because of possible physical incompatibilities, methylprednisolone sodium succinate should not be diluted or mixed with other solutions. Use only Water for Injection or Bacteriostatic Water For Injection with Benzyl Alcohol when reconstituting methylprednisolone sodium succinate (see DESCRIPTION ). Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. This preparation may be administered by intravenous injection, by intravenous infusion, or by intramuscular injection, the preferred method for initial emergency use being intravenous injection. Following the initial emergency period, consideration should be given to employing a longer acting injectable preparation or an oral preparation. There are reports of cardiac arrhythmias and/or cardiac arrest following the rapid administration of large intravenous doses of methylprednisolone sodium succinate ( greater than 0.5 gram administered over a period of less than 10 minutes ). Bradycardia has been reported during or after the administration of large doses of methylprednisolone sodium succinate and may be unrelated to the speed or duration of infusion. When high dose therapy is desired, the recommended dose of methylprednisolone sodium succinate sterile powder is 30 mg/kg administered intravenously over at least 30 minutes . This dose may be repeated every 4 to 6 hours for 48 hours. In general, high dose corticosteroid therapy should be continued only until the patient's condition has stabilized; usually not beyond 48 to 72 hours. In other indications, initial dosage will vary from 10 to 40 mg of methylprednisolone depending on the specific disease entity being treated. However, in certain overwhelming, acute, life-threatening situations, administrations in dosages exceeding the usual dosages may be justified and may be in multiples of the oral dosages. Situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process, the patient's individual drug responsiveness, and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease entity under treatment. In this latter situation, it may be necessary to increase the dosage of the corticosteroid for a period of time consistent with the patient's condition. Methylprednisolone sodium succinate for injection may be administered by intravenous or intramuscular injection or by intravenous infusion, the preferred method for initial emergency use being intravenous injection. To administer by intravenous (or intramuscular) injection, prepare solution as directed. The desired dose may be administered intravenously over a period of several minutes. If desired, the medication may be administered in diluted solutions by adding Water for Injection or other suitable diluent, withdrawing the indicated dose. To prepare solutions for intravenous infusion, first prepare the solution for injection as directed. This solution may then be added to indicated amounts of 5% dextrose in water, isotonic saline solution, or 5% dextrose in isotonic saline solution. From a microbiological point of view, unless the method of opening/reconstitution/dilution precludes the risk of microbial contamination, the product should be used immediately. If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions are the responsibility of the user. Chemical and physical stability of the further diluted product has been demonstrated within 4 hours of preparation if stored below 25°C or within 24 hours of preparation if stored at 2°C to 8°C. The range of initial doses is 0.11 to 1.6 mg/kg/day in three or four divided doses (3.2 to 48 mg/m 2 bsa/day). The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) recommended dosing for systemic prednisone, prednisolone, or methylprednisolone in pediatric patients whose asthma is uncontrolled by inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting bronchodilators is 1–2 mg/kg/day in single or divided doses. It is further recommended that short course, or "burst" therapy, be continued until the patient achieves a peak expiratory flow rate of 80% of his or her personal best or until symptoms resolve. This usually requires 3 to 10 days of treatment, although it can take longer. There is no evidence that tapering the dose after improvement will prevent a relapse. Dosage may be reduced for infants and children but should be governed more by the severity of the condition and response of the patient than by age or size. It should not be less than 0.5 mg per kg every 24 hours. Dosage must be decreased or discontinued gradually when the drug has been administered for more than a few days. If a period of spontaneous remission occurs in a chronic condition, treatment should be discontinued. Routine laboratory studies, such as urinalysis, two-hour postprandial blood sugar, determination of blood pressure and body weight, and a chest X-ray should be made at regular intervals during prolonged therapy. Upper GI X-rays are desirable in patients with an ulcer history or significant dyspepsia. In treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis, daily doses of 160 mg of methylprednisolone for a week followed by 64 mg every other day for 1 month have been shown to be effective (see PRECAUTIONS, Neurologic-psychiatric ). For the purpose of comparison, the following is the equivalent milligram dosage of the various glucocorticoids: Cortisone, 25 Triamcinolone, 4 Hydrocortisone, 20 Paramethasone, 2 Prednisolone, 5 Betamethasone, 0.75 Prednisone, 5 Dexamethasone, 0.75 Methylprednisolone, 4 These dose relationships apply only to oral or intravenous administration of these compounds. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION NOTE: Methylprednisolone Sodium Succinate for Injection contains benzyl alcohol (see DESCRIPTION , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use ). Because of the possible physical incompatibilities, Methylprednisolone Sodium Succinate for Injection should not be diluted or mixed with other solutions. Use only the Bacteriostatic Water For Injection with Benzyl Alcohol when reconstituting Methylprednisolone Sodium Succinate (see DESCRIPTION ). Use within 48 hours after mixing. There are reports of cardiac arrhythmias and/or cardiac arrest following the rapid administration of large IV doses of Methylprednisolone Sodium Succinate ( greater than 0.5 gram administered over a period of less than 10 minutes ). Bradycardia has been reported during or after the administration of large doses of Methylprednisolone Sodium Succinate, and may be unrelated to the speed or duration of infusion. Methylprednisolone Sodium Succinate may be administered by intravenous or intramuscular injection or by intravenous infusion, the preferred method for initial emergency use being intravenous injection. The range of initial doses is 0.11 to 1.6 mg/kg/day in three or four divided doses (3.2 to 48 mg/m2bsa/day). Bursitis. Injections for Local Effect in Dermatologic Conditions. If after a reasonable period of time there is a lack of satisfactory clinical response, methylprednisolone should be discontinued and the patient transferred to other appropriate therapy. Included in the situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process, the patient's individual drug responsiveness, and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease entity under treatment; in this latter situation it may be necessary to increase the dosage of methylprednisolone for a period of time consistent with the patient's condition. Multiple Sclerosis In treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis daily doses of 200 mg of prednisolone for a week followed by 80 mg every other day for 1 month have been shown to be effective (4 mg of methylprednisolone is equivalent to 5 mg of prednisolone). ADT® (Alternate Day Therapy) Alternate day therapy is a corticosteroid dosing regimen in which twice the usual daily dose of corticoid is administered every other morning. The rationale for this treatment schedule is based on two major premises: (a) the anti-inflammatory or therapeutic effect of corticoids persists longer than their physical presence and metabolic effects and (b) administration of the corticosteroid every other morning allows for reestablishment of more nearly normal hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) activity on the offsteroid day. The diurnal rhythm of the HPA axis is lost in Cushing's disease, a syndrome of adrenal cortical hyperfunction characterized by obesity with centripetal fat distribution, thinning of the skin with easy bruisability, muscle wasting with weakness, hypertension, latent diabetes, osteoporosis, electrolyte imbalance, etc. Other corticoids, including methylprednisolone, hydrocortisone, prednisone, and prednisolone, are considered to be short acting (producing adrenal cortical suppression for 1¼ to 1½ days following a single dose) and thus are recommended for alternate day therapy. The following should be kept in mind when considering alternate day therapy: 1. Basic principles and indications for corticosteroid therapy should apply. ADT is a therapeutic technique primarily designed for patients in whom long-term pharmacologic corticoid therapy is anticipated. In less severe disease processes in which corticoid therapy is indicated, it may be possible to initiate treatment with ADT. Because of the advantages of ADT, it may be desirable to try patients on this form of therapy who have been on daily corticoids for long periods of time (e.g., patients with rheumatoid arthritis).Since these patients may already have a suppressed HPA axis, establishing them on ADT may be difficult and not always successful. 5. As indicated above, certain corticosteroids, because of their prolonged suppressive effect on adrenal activity, are not recommended for alternate day therapy (e.g., dexamethasone and betamethasone). 6. The maximal activity of the adrenal cortex is between 2 am and 8 am, and it is minimal between 4 pm and midnight. 7. In using ADT it is important, as in all therapeutic situations to individualize and tailor the therapy to each patient. An explanation of the benefits of ADT will help the patient to understand and tolerate the possible flare-up in symptoms which may occur in the latter part of the off-steroid day. Other symptomatic therapy maybe added or increased at this time if needed. 8. In the event of an acute flare-up of the disease process, it may be necessary to return to a full suppressive daily divided corticoid dose for control. 9. Although many of the undesirable features of corticosteroid therapy can be minimized by ADT, as in any therapeutic situation, the physician must carefully weigh the benefit-risk ratio for each patient in whom corticoid therapy is being considered.
Warnings: WARNINGS Serious Neurologic Adverse Reactions with Epidural Administration Serious neurologic events, some resulting in death, have been reported with epidural injection of corticosteroids. Specific events reported include, but are not limited to, spinal cord infarction, paraplegia, quadriplegia, cortical blindness, and stroke. These serious neurologic events have been reported with and without use of fluoroscopy. The safety and effectiveness of epidural administration of corticosteroids have not been established, and corticosteroids are not approved for this use. General This product is not suitable for multi-dose use. Following administration of the desired dose, any remaining suspension should be discarded. Injection of methylprednisolone acetate may result in dermal and/or subdermal changes forming depressions in the skin at the injection site. In order to minimize the incidence of dermal and subdermal atrophy, care must be exercised not to exceed recommended doses in injections. Multiple small injections into the area of the lesion should be made whenever possible. The technique of intra-articular and intramuscular injection should include precautions against injection or leakage into the dermis. Injection into the deltoid muscle should be avoided because of a high incidence of subcutaneous atrophy. It is critical that, during administration of methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension, appropriate technique be used and care taken to ensure proper placement of drug. Rare instances of anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Increased dosage of rapidly acting corticosteroids is indicated in patients on corticosteroid therapy subjected to any unusual stress before, during, and after the stressful situation. Results from one multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled study with methylprednisolone hemisuccinate, an IV corticosteroid, showed an increase in early (at 2 weeks) and late (at 6 months) mortality in patients with cranial trauma who were determined not to have other clear indications for corticosteroid treatment. High doses of systemic corticosteroids, including methylprednisolone acetate, should not be used for the treatment of traumatic brain injury. Cardio-renal Average and large doses of corticosteroids can cause elevation of blood pressure, salt and water retention, and increased excretion of potassium. These effects are less likely to occur with synthetic derivatives when used in large doses. Dietary salt restriction and potassium supplementation may be necessary. All corticosteroids increase calcium excretion. Literature reports suggest an apparent association between use of corticosteroids and left ventricular free wall rupture after a recent myocardial infarction; therefore, therapy with corticosteroids should be used with great caution in these patients. Endocrine Hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis suppression. Cushing’s syndrome, and Hyperglycemia: Monitor patients for these conditions with chronic use. Corticosteroids can produce reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment. Drug induced secondary adrenocortical insufficiency may be minimized by gradual reduction of dosage. This type of relative insufficiency may persist for months after discontinuation of therapy; therefore, in any situation of stress occurring during that period, hormone therapy should be reinstituted. Infections General Persons who are on corticosteroids are more susceptible to infections than are healthy individuals. There may be decreased resistance and inability to localize infection when corticosteroids are used. Infections with any pathogen (viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan, or helminthic) in any location of the body, may be associated with the use of corticosteroids alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents. These infections may be mild, but can be severe and at times fatal. With increasing doses of corticosteroids, the rate of occurrence of infectious complications increases. Do not use intra-articularly, intrabursally, or for intratendinous administration for local effect in the presence of an acute infection. Corticosteroids may mask some signs of infection and new infections may appear during their use. Fungal Infections Corticosteroids may exacerbate systemic fungal infections and therefore should not be used in the presence of such infections unless they are needed to control drug interactions. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions , Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents ). Special Pathogens Latent disease may be activated or there may be an exacerbation of intercurrent infections due to pathogens, including those caused by Amoeba, Candida, Cryptococcus, Mycobacterium, Nocardia, Pneumocystis, and Toxoplasma. It is recommended that latent amebiasis or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating corticosteroid therapy in any patient who has spent time in the tropics or in any patient with unexplained diarrhea. Similarly, corticosteroids should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides (threadworm) infestation. In such patients, corticosteroid-induced immunosuppression may lead to Strongyloides hyperinfection and dissemination with widespread larval migration, often accompanied by severe enterocolitis and potentially fatal gram-negative septicemia. Corticosteroids should not be used in cerebral malaria. There is currently no evidence of benefit from steroids in this condition. Tuberculosis The use of corticosteroids in active tuberculosis should be restricted to those cases of fulminating or disseminated tuberculosis in which the corticosteroid is used for the management of the disease in conjunction with an appropriate antituberculous regimen. If corticosteroids are indicated in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, close observation is necessary, as reactivation of the disease may occur. During prolonged corticosteroid therapy, these patients should receive chemoprophylaxis. Vaccinations Administration of live or live, attenuated vaccines is contraindicated in patients receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids. Killed or inactivated vaccines may be administered. However, the response to such vaccines cannot be predicted. Immunization procedures may be undertaken in patients who are receiving corticosteroids as replacement therapy (e.g., for Addison’s disease). Viral Infections Chicken pox and measles can have a more serious or even fatal course in pediatric and adult patients on corticosteroids. In pediatric and adult patients who have not had these diseases, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If exposed to chicken pox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If exposed to measles, prophylaxis with immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated (see the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information). If chicken pox develops, treatment with antiviral agents should be considered. Ophthalmic Use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts, glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves, and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to bacteria, fungi, or viruses. The use of systemic corticosteroids is not recommended in the treatment of optic neuritis and may lead to an increase in the risk of new episodes. Corticosteroids should be used cautiously in patients with ocular herpes simplex because of corneal perforation. Corticosteroids should not be used in active ocular herpes simplex. WARNINGS LIDOCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE INJECTION FOR INFILTRATION AND NERVE BLOCK SHOULD BE EMPLOYED ONLY BY CLINICIANS WHO ARE WELL VERSED IN DIAGNOSIS AND MANAGEMENT OF DOSE-RELATED TOXICITY AND OTHER ACUTE EMERGENCIES THAT MIGHT ARISE FROM THE BLOCK TO BE EMPLOYED AND THEN ONLY AFTER ENSURING THE IMMEDIATE AVAILABILITY OF OXYGEN, OTHER RESUSCITATIVE DRUGS, CARDIOPULMONARY EQUIPMENT AND THE PERSONNEL NEEDED FOR PROPER MANAGEMENT OF TOXIC REACTIONS AND RELATED EMERGENCIES (see also ADVERSE REACTIONS and PRECAUTIONS ). DELAY IN PROPER MANAGEMENT OF DOSE-RELATED TOXICITY, UNDERVENTILATION FROM ANY CAUSE AND/OR ALTERED SENSITIVITY MAY LEAD TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF ACIDOSIS, CARDIAC ARREST AND, POSSIBLY, DEATH. Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use. Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia, patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia, cardiac or pulmonary compromise, infants under 6 months of age, and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition. If local anesthetics must be used in these patients, close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended. Signs of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure, and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and/or abnormal coloration of the blood. Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise; therefore, immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects, including seizures, coma, arrhythmias, and death. Discontinue lidocaine hydrochloride and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of the signs and symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care, i.e., oxygen therapy, hydration. A more severe clinical presentation may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. Intra-articular infusions of local anesthetics following arthroscopic and other surgical procedures is an unapproved use, and there have been post-marketing reports of chondrolysis in patients receiving such infusions. The majority of reported cases of chondrolysis have involved the shoulder joint; cases of gleno-humeral chondrolysis have been described in pediatric and adult patients following intra-articular infusions of local anesthetics with and without epinephrine for periods of 48 to 72 hours. There is insufficient information to determine whether shorter infusion periods are not associated with these findings. The time of onset of symptoms, such as joint pain, stiffness and loss of motion can be variable, but may begin as early as the 2 nd month after surgery. Currently, there is no effective treatment for chondrolysis; patients who experienced chondrolysis have required additional diagnostic and therapeutic procedures and some required arthroplasty or shoulder replacement. To avoid intravascular injection, aspiration should be performed before the local anesthetic solution is injected. The needle must be repositioned until no return of blood can be elicited by aspiration. Note, however, that the absence of blood in the syringe does not guarantee that intravascular injection has been avoided. Anaphylactic reactions may occur following administration of lidocaine hydrochloride (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). In the case of severe reaction, discontinue the use of the drug. Warnings: FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY WARNINGS Intravenous administration of Sterile Water for Injection without a solute may result in hemolysis. Warnings For external use only Flammable - keep away from fire or flame Do not use with electrocautery procedures When using this product do not get into eyes apply over large areas of the body in case of deep or puncture wounds, animal bites or serious burns consult a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if condition persists or gets worse or lasts for more than 72 hours do not use longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. WARNINGS In patients on corticosteroid therapy subjected to unusual stress, increased dosage of rapidly acting corticosteroids before, during, and after the stressful situation is indicated. Corticosteroids may mask some signs of infection, and new infections may appear during their use. Infections with any pathogen including viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan or helminthic infections, in any location of the body, may be associated with the use of corticosteroids alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents that affect cellular immunity, humoral immunity, or neutrophil function. 1 These infections may be mild, but can be severe and at times fatal. 2 There may be decreased resistance and inability to localize infection when corticosteroids are used. Prolonged use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts, glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves, and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to fungi or viruses. Usage in pregnancy: Since adequate human reproduction studies have not been done with corticosteroids, the use of these drugs in pregnancy, nursing mothers or women of child-bearing potential requires that the possible benefits of the drug be weighed against the potential hazards to the mother and embryo or fetus. Infants born of mothers who have received substantial doses of corticosteroids during pregnancy, should be carefully observed for signs of hypoadrenalism. Average and large doses of hydrocortisone or cortisone can cause elevation of blood pressure, salt and water retention, and increased excretion of potassium. These effects are less likely to occur with the synthetic derivatives except when used in large doses. Administration of live or live, attenuated vaccines is contraindicated in patients receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids. Killed or inactivated vaccines may be administered to patients receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids; however, the response to such vaccines may be diminished. Indicated immunization procedures may be undertaken in patients receiving nonimmunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids. The use of methylprednisolone tablets in active tuberculosis should be restricted to those cases of fulminating or disseminated tuberculosis in which the corticosteroid is used for the management of the disease in conjunction with an appropriate antituberculous regimen. If corticosteroids are indicated in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, close observation is necessary as reactivation of the disease may occur. Persons who are on drugs which suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chicken pox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in non-immune children or adults on corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route and duration of corticosteroid administration affects the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. If exposed, to chicken pox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chicken pox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. General Reconstituted methylprednisolone sodium succinate sterile powder contains benzyl alcohol, which is potentially toxic when administered locally to neural tissue . Exposure to excessive amounts of benzyl alcohol has been associated with toxicity (hypotension, metabolic acidosis), particularly in neonates, and an increased incidence of kernicterus, particularly in small preterm infants. There have been rare reports of deaths, primarily in preterm infants, associated with exposure to excessive amounts of benzyl alcohol. The amount of benzyl alcohol from medications is usually considered negligible compared to that received in flush solutions containing benzyl alcohol. Administration of high dosages of medications containing this preservative must take into account the total amount of benzyl alcohol administered. The amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occur is not known. If the patient requires more than the recommended dosages or other medications containing this preservative, the practitioner must consider the daily metabolic load of benzyl alcohol from these combined sources (see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use ). Injection of methylprednisolone sodium succinate may result in dermal and/or subdermal changes forming depressions in the skin at the injection site. In patients receiving the 40 mg presentation of methylprednisolone sodium succinate for injection during the treatment for acute allergic conditions and where these symptoms worsen or any new allergic symptoms occur, consideration should be given to the potential for hypersensitivity reactions to cow’s milk ingredients (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). If appropriate, administration of methylprednisolone sodium succinate for injection should be stopped, and the patient’s condition should be treated accordingly. Alternative treatments, including the use of corticosteroid formulations that do not contain ingredients produced from cow’s milk, should be considered for acute allergy management, where appropriate. Increased dosage of rapidly acting corticosteroids is indicated in patients on corticosteroid therapy who are subjected to any unusual stress before, during, and after the stressful situation. Results from one multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled study with methylprednisolone hemisuccinate, an intravenous corticosteroid, showed an increase in early (at 2 weeks) and late (at 6 months) mortality in patients with cranial trauma who were determined not to have other clear indications for corticosteroid treatment. High doses of systemic corticosteroids, including methylprednisolone sodium succinate, should not be used for the treatment of traumatic brain injury. Literature reports suggest an apparent association between the use of corticosteroids and left ventricular free wall rupture after a recent myocardial infarction; therefore, therapy with corticosteroids should be used with great caution in these patients. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents ). Endocrine Hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, Cushing's syndrome, and hyperglycemia. Monitor patients for these conditions with chronic use. Immunosuppression and Increased Risk of Infection Corticosteroids, including Methylprednisolone Sodium Succinate, suppress the immune system and increase the risk of infection with any pathogen, including viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan, or helminthic pathogens. Corticosteroids can: Reduce resistance to new infection Exacerbate existing infections Increase the risk of disseminated infections Increase the risk of reactivation or exacerbation of latent infections Mask some signs of infection Corticosteroid-associated infections can be mild but can be severe and at times fatal. The rate of infectious complications increases with increasing corticosteroid dosages. A study has failed to establish the efficacy of methylprednisolone sodium succinate in the treatment of sepsis syndrome and septic shock. The study also suggests that treatment of these conditions with methylprednisolone sodium succinate may increase the risk of mortality in certain patients (i.e., patients with elevated serum creatinine levels or patients who develop secondary infections after methylprednisolone sodium succinate). Monitor for the development of infection and consider methylprednisolone sodium succinate withdrawal or dosage reduction as needed. Tuberculosis If methylprednisolone sodium succinate is used to treat a condition in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, reactivation of the disease may occur. Closely monitor such patients for reactivation. During prolonged methylprednisolone sodium succinate therapy, patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity should receive chemoprophylaxis. Varicella Zoster and Measles Viral Infections Varicella and measles can have a serious or even fatal course in non-immune patients taking corticosteroids, including methylprednisolone sodium succinate. In corticosteroid-treated patients who have not had these diseases or are non-immune, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure to varicella and measles: If a methylprednisolone sodium succinate treated patient is exposed to varicella, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If varicella develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. If a methylprednisolone sodium succinate treated patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. Hepatitis B Virus Reactivation Hepatitis B virus reactivation can occur in patients who are hepatitis B carriers treated with immunosuppressive dosages of corticosteroids, including methylprednisolone sodium succinate. Reactivation can also occur infrequently in corticosteroid-treated patients who appear to have resolved hepatitis B infection. Screen patients for hepatitis B infection before initiating immunosuppressive (e.g., prolonged) treatment with methylprednisolone sodium succinate. For patients who show evidence of hepatitis B infection, recommend consultation with physicians with expertise in managing hepatitis B regarding monitoring and consideration for hepatitis B antiviral therapy. Fungal Infections Corticosteroids, including methylprednisolone sodium succinate, may exacerbate systemic fungal infections; therefore, avoid methylprednisolone sodium succinate use in the presence of such infections unless methylprednisolone sodium succinate is needed to control drug reactions. For patients on chronic methylprednisolone sodium succinate therapy who develop systemic fungal infections, methylprednisolone sodium succinate withdrawal or dosage reduction is recommended. Amebiasis Corticosteroids, including methylprednisolone sodium succinate, may activate latent amebiasis. Therefore, it is recommended that latent amebiasis or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating methylprednisolone sodium succinate in patients who have spent time in the tropics or patients with unexplained diarrhea. Strongyloides Infestation Corticosteroids, including methylprednisolone sodium succinate, should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides (threadworm) infestation. Cerebral Malaria Avoid corticosteroids, including methylprednisolone sodium succinate, in patients with cerebral malaria. Drug-Induced Liver Injury Rarely, high doses of cyclically pulsed intravenous methylprednisolone (usually for the treatment of exacerbations of multiple sclerosis at doses of 1 gram/day) can induce a toxic form of acute hepatitis. The time to onset of this form of steroid-induced liver injury can be several weeks or longer. Resolution has been observed after discontinuation of treatment. However, serious liver injury can occur, sometimes resulting in acute liver failure and death. Discontinue intravenous methylprednisolone if toxic hepatitis occurs. Since recurrence has occurred after re-challenge, avoid use of high dose intravenous methylprednisolone in patients with a history of toxic hepatitis caused by methylprednisolone. Vaccination Administration of live or live, attenuated vaccines is contraindicated in patients receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids. However, the response to such vaccines can not be predicted. Immunization procedures may be undertaken in patients receiving corticosteroids as replacement therapy, e.g., for Addison’s disease. Neurologic Reports of severe medical events have been associated with the intrathecal route of administration (see ADVERSE REACTIONS , Gastrointestinal and Neurologic/Psychiatric ). The use of oral corticosteroids is not recommended in the treatment of optic neuritis and may lead to an increase in the risk of new episodes. Kaposi's Sarcoma Kaposi’s sarcoma has been reported to occur in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy, most often for chronic conditions. Discontinuation of corticosteroids may result in clinical improvement of Kaposi’s sarcoma. WARNINGS This section is empty. No content has been added. Serious Neurologic Adverse Reactions with Epidural Administration Serious neurologic events, some resulting in death, have been reported with epidural injection of corticosteroids. Drug-Induced Liver Injury Rarely high doses of cyclically pulsed intravenous methylprednisolone (usually for the treatment of exacerbations of multiple sclerosis at doses of 1 gram/day) can induce a toxic form of acute hepatitis. Infections This section is empty. General Patients who are on corticosteroids are more susceptible to infections than are healthy individuals. Infections with any pathogen (viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan, or helminthic) in any location of the body may be associated with the use of corticosteroids alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents. Corticosteroids may also mask some signs of current infection. Do not use intra-articularly, intrabursally or for intratendinous administration for local effect in the presence of acute local infection. Neurologic Reports of severe medical events have been associated with the intrathecal route of administration (see ADVERSE REACTIONS, Gastrointestinal and Neurologic/Psychiatric ). Immunosuppression and Increased Risk of Infection Corticosteroids, including methylprednisolone acetate, suppress the immune system and increase the risk of infection with any pathogen, including viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan, or helminthic pathogens. Corticosteroids can: Reduce resistance to new infections Exacerbate existing infections Increase the risk of disseminated infections Increase the risk of reactivation or exacerbation of latent infections Mask some signs of infection Corticosteroid-associated infections can be mild but can be severe and at times fatal. Monitor for the development of infection and consider methylprednisolone acetate withdrawal or dosage reduction as needed. Do not administer methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension by an intraarticular, intrabursal, intratendinous or intralesional route in the presence of acute local infection. Tuberculosis If methylprednisolone acetate is used to treat a condition in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, as reactivation of the disease may occur. During prolonged methylprednisolone acetate therapy, patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity should receive chemoprophylaxis. Varicella Zoster and Measles Viral Infections Varicella and measles can have a serious or even fatal course in non-immune patients taking corticosteroids, including methylprednisolone acetate. In corticosteroid-treated patients who have not had these diseases or are non-immune, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure to varicella and measles: If a methylprednisolone acetate -treated patient is exposed to varicella, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a methylprednisolone acetate -treated patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. Hepatitis B Virus Reactivation Hepatitis B virus reactivation can occur in patients who are hepatitis B carriers treated with immunosuppressive dosages of corticosteroids, including methylprednisolone acetate. Screen patients for hepatitis B infection before initiating immunosuppressive (e.g., prolonged) treatment with methylprednisolone acetate. Fungal Infections Corticosteroids, including methylprednisolone acetate, may exacerbate systemic fungal infections; therefore, avoid methylprednisolone acetate use in the presence of such infections unless methylprednisolone acetate is needed to control drug reactions. For patients on chronic methylprednisolone acetate therapy who develop systemic fungal infections, methylprednisolone acetate withdrawal or dosage reduction is recommended. Amebiasis Corticosteroids, including methylprednisolone acetate, may activate latent amebiasis. Therefore, it is recommended that latent amebiasis or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating methylprednisolone acetate in patients who have spent time in the tropics or patients with unexplained diarrhea. Strongyloides Infestation Corticosteroids, including methylprednisolone acetate, should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides (threadworm) infestation. Cerebral Malaria Avoid corticosteroids, including methylprednisolone acetate, in patients with cerebral malaria. Kaposi’s Sarcoma Karposi’s sarcoma has been reported to occur in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy, most often for chronic conditions. Usage in pregnancy Since adequate human reproduction studies have not been done with corticosteroids, the use of these drugs in pregnancy, nursing mothers or women of child-bearing potential requires that the possible benefits of the drug be weighed against the potential hazards to the mother and embryo or fetus.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection is contraindicated in: obstetrical paracervical block anesthesia. Its use in this technique has resulted in fetal bradycardia and death. intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier Block) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. patients with a known hypersensitivity to bupivacaine or to any local anesthetic agent of the amide-type or to other components of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection. Obstetrical paracervical block anesthesia. ( 4 ) Intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier Block). ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to bupivacaine or to any local anesthetic agent of the amide-type or to other components of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection. ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to the product and its constituents. Intramuscular corticosteroid preparations are contraindicated for idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura. Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is contraindicated for intrathecal administration. This formulation of methylprednisolone acetate has been associated with reports of severe medical events when administered by this route. Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is contraindicated in systemic fungal infections, except when administered as an intra-articular injection for localized joint conditions (see WARNINGS : Infections, Fungal Infections ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Lidocaine hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type. CONTRAINDICATIONS Sterile Water for Injection, USP must be made approximately isotonic prior to use. CONTRAINDICATIONS Systemic fungal infections and known hypersensitivity to components. CONTRAINDICATIONS Methylprednisolone Sodium Succinate Sterile Powder is contraindicated: in systemic fungal infections and patients with known hypersensitivity to the product and its constituents; The methylprednisolone sodium succinate for injection 40 mg presentation includes lactose monohydrate produced from cow’s milk. This presentation is therefore contraindicated in patients with a known or suspected hypersensitivity to cow’s milk or its components or other dairy products because it may contain trace amounts of milk ingredients. for intrathecal administration. Reports of severe medical events have been associated with this route of administration. Additional contraindication for the use of Methylprednisolone Sodium Succinate Sterile Powder preserved with benzyl alcohol: Formulations preserved with benzyl alcohol are contraindicated for use in premature infants (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Methylprednisolone Sodium Succinate sterile powder is contraindicated: In systemic fungal infections and patients with known hypersensitivity to the product and its constituents; For intrathecal administration. The use of Methylprednisolone Sodium Succinate for Injection is contraindicated in premature infants because when reconstituted will contain benzyl alcohol. ( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS: Pediatric Use ) Methylprednisolone acetate injectable suspension is contraindicated in systemic fungal infections, except when administered as an intra-articular injection for localized joint conditions (see WARNINGS : Immunosuppression and Increased Risk of Infection, Fungal Infections ).
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Local Anesthetics : The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. Monitor for neurologic and cardiovascular effects when additional local anesthetics are administered. ( 7.1 ) Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants : Administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. Concurrent use of these agents should generally be avoided. ( 5.6 , 7.2 ) Ergot-Type Oxytocic Drugs : Concurrent administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and ergot-type oxytocic drugs may cause severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents. ( 5.6 , 7.3 ) Nonselective Beta-Adrenergic Antagonists : Administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection (containing a vasoconstrictor) in patients receiving nonselective beta-adrenergic antagonists may cause severe hypertension and bradycardia. ( 5.6 , 7.4 ) Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia : Patients are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to nitrates, nitrites, local anesthetics, antineoplastic agents, antibiotics, antimalarials, anticonvulsants, and other drugs. ( 7.5 ) Potent Inhalation Anesthetics : Serious dose-related cardiac arrhythmias may occur if preparations containing a vasoconstrictor such as epinephrine are used in patients during or following the administration of potent inhalation anesthetics. ( 5.13 , 7.6 ) 7.1 Local Anesthetics The toxic effects of local anesthetics are additive. If coadministration of other local anesthetics with Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection cannot be avoided, monitor patients for neurologic and cardiovascular effects related to local anesthetic systemic toxicity [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants The administration Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors, or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful monitoring of the patient's hemodynamic status is essential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . 7.3 Ergot-Type Oxytocic Drugs Concurrent administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and ergot-type oxytocic drugs may cause severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents. Avoid use of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine concomitantly with ergot-type oxytocic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. 7.4 Nonselective Beta-Adrenergic Antagonists Administration of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection (containing a vasoconstrictor) in patients receiving nonselective beta-adrenergic antagonists may cause severe hypertension and bradycardia. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful monitoring of the patient's blood pressure and heart rate is essential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. 7.5 Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia Patients who are administered Bupivacaine Hydrochloride Injection/Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to following drugs, which could include other local anesthetics [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia: Class Examples Nitrates/Nitrites nitric oxide, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, nitrous oxide Local anesthetics articaine, benzocaine, bupivacaine, lidocaine, mepivacaine, prilocaine, procaine, ropivacaine, tetracaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide, flutamide, hydroxyurea, isofamide, rasburicase Antibiotics dapsone, nitrofurantoin, para-aminosalicylic acid, sulfonamides Antimalarials chloroquine, primaquine Anticonvulsants phenobarbital, phenytoin, sodium valproate Other drugs acetaminophen, metoclopramide, quinine, sulfasalazine 7.6 Potent Inhalation Anesthetics Serious dose-related cardiac arrhythmias may occur if preparations containing a vasoconstrictor such as epinephrine (e.g., Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection) are used in patients during or following the administration of potent inhalation anesthetics [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] . 7.7 Phenothiazines and Butyrophenones Phenothiazines and butyrophenones may reduce or reverse the pressor effect of epinephrine. Concurrent use of Bupivacaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine Injection and these agents should generally be avoided. In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary, careful patient monitoring is essential. Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide : Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents: When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium depleting agents (e.g., amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics : Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions , Hepatic Enzyme Inhibitors ). Anticholinesterases: Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants , oral : Co-administration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored frequently to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics: Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentration, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular drugs: Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine: Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of oral corticosteroids. Cyclosporine: Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis glycosides: Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, including oral contraceptives: Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin): Drugs which induce cytochrome P450 3A4 enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Hepatic Enzyme Inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin and troleandomycin): Drugs which inhibit cytochrome P450 3A4 have the potential to result in increased plasma concentrations of corticosteroids. Ketoconazole : Ketoconazole has been reported to significantly decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) : Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Skin tests : Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Vaccines : Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS : Infections, Vaccinations ). Clinically Significant Drug Interactions The administration of local anesthetic solutions containing epinephrine or norepinephrine to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants may produce severe, prolonged hypertension. Phenothiazines and butyrophenones may reduce or reverse the pressor effect of epinephrine. Concurrent administration of vasopressor drugs (for the treatment of hypotension related to obstetric blocks) and ergot-type oxytocic drugs may cause severe, persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents. DRUG INTERACTIONS The pharmacokinetic interactions listed below are potentially clinically important. Mutual inhibition of metabolism occurs with concurrent use of cyclosporin and methylprednisolone; therefore, it is possible that adverse events associated with the individual use of either drug may be more apt to occur. Convulsions have been reported with concurrent use of methylprednisolone and cyclosporin. Drugs that induce hepatic enzymes such as phenobarbital, phenytoin and rifampin may increase the clearance of methylprednisolone and may require increases in methylprednisolone dose to achieve the desired response. Drugs such as troleandomycin and ketoconazole may inhibit the metabolism of methylprednisolone and thus decrease its clearance. Therefore, the dose of methylprednisolone should be titrated to avoid steroid toxicity. Methylprednisolone may increase the clearance of chronic high dose aspirin. This could lead to decreased salicylate serum levels or increase the risk of salicylate toxicity when methylprednisolone is withdrawn. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in patients suffering from hypoprothrombinemia. The effect of methylprednisolone on oral anticoagulants is variable. There are reports of enhanced as well as diminished effects of anticoagulant when given concurrently with corticosteroids. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (i.e., amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. Antibiotics Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see Drug Interactions, Hepatic Enzyme Inhibitors ). Anticholinesterases Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. Anticoagulants, oral Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Antidiabetics Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular drugs Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Digitalis glycosides Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, including oral contraceptives Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin) Drugs which induce cytochrome P450 3A4 enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Hepatic Enzyme Inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, macrolide antibiotics such as erythromycin and troleandomycin) Drugs which inhibit cytochrome P450 3A4 have the potential to result in increased plasma concentrations of corticosteroids. Ketoconazole Ketoconazole has been reported to significantly decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDs) Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Skin tests Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Vaccines Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS, Immunosuppression and Increased Risk of Infection , Vaccination ). Drug Interactions This section is empty. No content has been added. Aminoglutethimide Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Antibiotics Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see Drug Interactions, Hepatic Enzyme Inhibitors ) Anticholinesterases Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS, Infections, Vaccination ). Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide: Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Antibiotics: Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance (see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions , Hepatic Enzyme Inhibitors ). Anticoagulants , oral: Co-administration of corticosteroids and warfarin usually results in inhibition of response to warfarin, although there have been some conflicting reports. Ketoconazole: Ketoconazole has been reported to significantly decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroid side effects. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs): Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Skin tests: Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Vaccines: Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS : Immunosuppression and Increased Risk of Infection , Vaccinations ). Information for the Patient Persons who are on immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids should be warned to avoid exposure to chickenpox or measles. Patients should also be advised that if they are exposed, medical advice should be sought without delay.

=== SELENIUM SULFIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Anti-dandruff Purpose Anti-dandruff, Anti-seborrheic dermatitis Purpose Anti-dandruff Anti-seborrheic dermatitis Purpose Anti-seborrheic dermatitis, anti-dandruff Purpose Antidandruff
Indications: Use helps prevent recurrence of flaking and itching associated with dandruff. Use helps prevent recurrence of itching, irritation, redness, flaking and scaling associated with dandruff and seborrheic dermatitis Uses Helps prevent recurrence of flaking and itching associated with dandruff and seborrheic dermatitis. Uses for the relief of flaking, and itching associated with dandruff, and seborrheic dermatitis and to help prevent their recurrence. INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the treatment of tinea versicolor, seborrheic dermatitis of the scalp, and dandruff. Uses helps prevent recurrence of flaking, itching, irritation, scaling and redness associated with dandruff and seborrheic dermatitis. Uses for relief of the symptoms of dandruff
Dosage: Directions shake well wet hair massage onto scalp rinse repeat if desired for best results use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor for maximum dandruff control, use every time you shampoo. Directions shake well for maximum dandruff control, use every time you shampoo wet hair, massage onto scalp, rinse, repeat if desired for best results use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor if used on bleached, gray, tinted or permed hair, rinse for at least 5 minutes Directions shake well. wet hair. massage onto scalp. rinse. repeat if desired. for best results, use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor. for maximum dandruff control, use every time you shampoo. Directions Apply a generous amount to wet hair, massage onto scalp and work evenly to the ends. Leave on for 3-5 minutes. Rinse thoroughly. For best results use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor. Directions shake well shampoo, then rinse thoroughly for best results, use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION See application instructions on rear panel of this bottle. For treatment of dandruff and seborrheic dermatitis: For the usual case, two applications each week for two weeks will afford control. After this, the suspension may be used at less frequent intervals - weekly, every two weeks, or even every 3 or 4 weeks in some cases. The preparation should not be applied more frequently than required to maintain control. For treatment of tinea versicolor: Apply to affected areas and lather with a small amount of water. Allow product to remain on skin for 10 minutes, then rinse the body thoroughly. Repeat this procedure once a day for seven days. Directions for best results use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor. shake before use. wet hair, massage onto scalp, rinse, repeat if desired. caution: if used on bleached, tinted, grey, or permed hair, rinse for 5 minutes. Directions wet hair apply shampoo and work into a lather rinse thoroughly for best results, use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor
Warnings: Warnings For external use only When using this product avoid contact with the eyes. If contact occurs, rinse eyes thoroughly with water. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve after regular use as directed. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings For external use only Warnings For external use only. Ask a doctor before using this product if condition covers a large area of the body. When using this product avoid contact with the eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve after regular use of this product as directed. if condition covers a large area of the body. Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor before use if you have a condition that covers a large area of the body. When using this product avoid contact with eyes. In case of accidental ingestion, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor before use if condition covers a large area of the body. for color-treated or permed hair, rinse thoroughly. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Ask a doctor before use if you have a condition that covers a large area of the body. avoid contact with eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve after regular use of this product as directed Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children. Warnings For external use only Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve after regular use. When using this product keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS This product should not be used by patients allergic to any of its components.

=== TACROLIMUS ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tacrolimus extended-release capsules is indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection in kidney transplant patients in combination with other immunosuppressants in adult patients who can swallow capsules intact [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ), ( 14.2 )] . Pediatric use information is approved for Astellas Pharma US, Inc.'s ASTAGRAF XL (tacrolimus extended-release capsules). However, due to Astellas Pharma US, Inc.'s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. Tacrolimus extended-release capsules is a calcineurin-inhibitor immunosuppressant indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection in kidney transplant patients in combination with other immunosuppressants in adult patients who can swallow capsules intact. ( 1 , 14.1 , 14.2 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tacrolimus capsules are calcineurin-inhibitor immunosuppressant indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection in adult patients receiving allogeneic liver, kidney or heart transplants and pediatric patients receiving allogeneic liver transplants in combination with other immunosuppressants. ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Prophylaxis of Organ Rejection in Kidney, Liver or Heart Transplant Tacrolimus capsules are indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection, in adult patients receiving allogeneic kidney transplant [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] , liver transplants [ see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] and heart transplant [ see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] , and pediatric patients receiving allogeneic liver transplants [ see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] in combination with other immunosuppressants. Additional pediatric use information is approved for Astellas Pharma US, Inc.’s Prograf (tacrolimus) products. However, due to Astellas Pharma US, Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tacrolimus capsule is a calcineurin-inhibitor immunosuppressant indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection in adult patients receiving allogeneic liver, kidney, or heart transplants, and pediatric patients receiving allogeneic liver transplants in combination with other immunosuppressants. ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Prophylaxis of Organ Rejection in Kidney, Liver or Heart Transplant Tacrolimus capsules are indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection, in adult patients receiving allogeneic kidney transplant [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] , liver transplant [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] , heart transplant [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] , and pediatric patients receiving allogeneic liver transplants [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2) ] in combination with other immunosuppressants. 1.1 Prophylaxis of Organ Rejection in Kidney, Liver, or Heart Transplant Tacrolimus capsules are indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection, in adult patients receiving allogeneic kidney transplant [see Clinical Studies (14.1)], liver transplant [see Clinical Studies (14.2)], and heart transplant [see Clinical Studies (14.3)], and pediatric patients receiving allogeneic liver transplants [see Clinical Studies (14.2)] in combination with other immunosuppressants. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tacrolimus ointment, both 0.03% and 0.1% for adults, and only 0.03% for children aged 2 to 15 years, is indicated as second-line therapy for the short-term and non-continuous chronic treatment of moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in non-immunocompromised adults and children who have failed to respond adequately to other topical prescription treatments for atopic dermatitis, or when those treatments are not advisable. Tacrolimus ointment is not indicated for children younger than 2 years of age (see boxed WARNING , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS: Pediatric Use ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tacrolimus capsules are a calcineurin-inhibitor immunosuppressant indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection in adult patients receiving allogeneic liver, kidney, or heart transplants, and pediatric patients receiving allogenic liver transplants in combination with other immunosuppressants. ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Prophylaxis of Organ Rejection in Kidney, Liver, or Heart Transplant Tacrolimus capsules are indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection, in adult patients receiving allogeneic kidney transplant [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1) ] , liver transplant [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )], and heart transplant [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] , and pediatric patients receiving allogeneic liver transplants [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] in combination with other immunosuppressants. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tacrolimus capsule is a calcineurin-inhibitor immunosuppressant indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection in adult patients receiving allogeneic liver, kidney, heart transplants, and pediatric patients receiving allogeneic liver transplants, in combination with other immunosuppressants. (1.1) 1.1 Prophylaxis of Organ Rejection in Kidney, Liver, or Heart Transplant Tacrolimus capsules are indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection, in adult patients receiving allogeneic kidney transplant [see Clinical Studies (14.1)], liver transplant [see Clinical Studies (14.2)] or heart transplant [see Clinical Studies (14.3)] and pediatric patients receiving allogeneic liver transplant [see Clinical Studies (14.2)] in combination with other immunosuppressants. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tacrolimus capsule is a calcineurin-inhibitor immunosuppressant indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection in adult patients receiving allogeneic liver, kidney or heart transplants, and pediatric patients receiving allogeneic liver transplants in combination with other immunosuppressants.( 1.1 ) 1.1 Prophylaxis of Organ Rejection in Kidney, Liver or Heart Transplant Tacrolimus capsules are indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection, in adult patients receiving allogeneic kidney transplant [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] , liver transplant [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] , heart transplant [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )], and pediatric patients receiving allogeneic liver transplants [see Clinical Studies (14.2 ) ] in combination with other immunosuppressants. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tacrolimus capsules are a calcineurin-inhibitor immunosuppressant indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection in adult and pediatric patients receiving allogeneic liver, kidney, or heart transplants, in combination with other immunosuppressants. ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Prophylaxis of Organ Rejection in Kidney, Liver, or Heart Transplant Tacrolimus capsules are indicated for the prophylaxis of organ rejection, in adult and pediatric patients receiving allogeneic kidney transplant [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] , liver transplant [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] , and heart transplant [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] , in combination with other immunosuppressants.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Capsules must be taken whole. ( 2.1 ) Take consistently every morning at the same time on an empty stomach at least 1 hour before a meal or at least 2 hours after a meal. ( 2.1 ) Avoid eating grapefruit or drinking grapefruit juice or alcohol. ( 2.1 ) African-American patients and patients with severe hepatic impairment may require dosing adjustments. ( 2.3 ) Frequent monitoring of trough concentrations is recommended. ( 2.4 ) For complete dosing information, see Full Prescribing Information. MMF = Mycophenolate mofetil Recommended Tacrolimus Extended-Release Capsules Initial Dosage Patient Population Initial Oral Dosage Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range ADULT With basiliximab, MMF and steroids 0.15 mg/kg to 0.2 mg/kg once daily prior to reperfusion or within 48 hours of completion of transplant Month 1: 7 ng/mL to 15 ng/mL Month 2 to Month 6: 5 ng/mL to 15 ng/mL More than 6 Months: 5 ng/mL to 10 ng/mL With MMF and steroids, without basiliximab induction First dose (pre-operative): 0.1 mg/kg, within 12 hours prior to reperfusion Subsequent doses (post-operative): 0.2 mg/kg once daily at least 4 hours after pre-operative dose and within 12 hours after reperfusion Month 1: 10 ng/mL to 15 ng/mL Month 2 to Month 6: 5 ng/mL to 15 ng/mL More than 6 Months: 5 ng/mL to 10 ng/mL 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Tacrolimus extended-release capsules should not be used without the supervision by a physician with experience in immunosuppressive therapy. Tacrolimus extended-release capsules is not interchangeable or substitutable for tacrolimus extended-release tablets, tacrolimus immediate-release capsules or tacrolimus for oral suspension. Under or overexposure to tacrolimus may result in graft rejection or other serious adverse reactions. Changes between tacrolimus immediate-release and extended-release dosage forms must occur under physician supervision [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. Advise patients to swallow tacrolimus extended-release capsules whole with liquid; patients must not chew, divide, or crush the capsules. Tacrolimus extended-release capsules should be taken consistently every morning at the same time to ensure consistent and maximum possible drug exposure, on an empty stomach at least 1 hour before a meal, or at least 2 hours after a meal [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. If a dose is missed, the dose may be taken up to 14 hours after the scheduled time (i.e., for a missed 8:00 AM dose, a dose may be taken by 10:00 PM). Beyond the 14-hour time frame, the patient should wait until the usual scheduled time the following morning to take the next regular daily dose. Instruct the patient not to double the next dose. Advise patients to avoid eating grapefruit or drinking grapefruit juice or alcoholic beverages while taking tacrolimus extended-release capsules [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )]. Therapeutic drug monitoring is recommended for all patients receiving tacrolimus extended-release capsules [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )] . 2.2 Dosage Recommendations for Kidney Transplant Patients Table 1 includes the recommended starting tacrolimus extended-release capsules dosages and whole blood trough concentration ranges; the observed trough concentrations are shown in another section of the Full Prescribing Information [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . Titrate the tacrolimus extended-release capsules dosage based on clinical assessments of rejection and tolerability, and to achieve target trough concentration ranges [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 , 5.7 , 5.10 , 5.11 )] . Table 1: Recommended Starting Daily Dosage Regimen of Tacrolimus Extended-Release Capsules MMF = mycophenolate mofetil Recommended Tacrolimus Extended-Release Capsules Initial Dosage* Patient Population Initial Oral Dosage Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range ADULT With basiliximab, MMF and steroids 0.15 mg/kg to 0.2 mg/kg once daily prior to reperfusion or within 48 hours of completion of transplant • Month 1: 7 ng/mL to 15 ng/mL • Month 2 to Month 6: 5 ng/mL to 15 ng/mL • More than 6 Months: 5 ng/mL to 10 ng/mL With MMF and steroids, without basiliximab induction • First dose (pre-operative): 0.1 mg/kg, within 12 hours prior to reperfusion • Subsequent doses (post-operative): 0.2 mg/kg once daily at least 4 hours after pre-operative dose and within 12 hours after reperfusion • Month 1: 10 ng/mL to 15 ng/mL • Month 2 to Month 6: 5 ng/mL to 15 ng/mL • More than 6 Months: 5 ng/mL to 10 ng/mL Pediatric use information is approved for Astellas Pharma US, Inc.'s ASTAGRAF XL (tacrolimus extended-release capsules). However, due to Astellas Pharma US, Inc.'s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.3 Dosage Modifications for African-American Patients, Patients with Hepatic Impairment, and Drug Interactions African-American patients, compared to Caucasian patients, may need to be titrated to higher tacrolimus extended-release capsules dosages to attain comparable trough concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . Patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh ≥ 10) may require a lower starting dosage of tacrolimus extended-release capsules, due to the reduced clearance and prolonged half-life [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Dose adjustments of tacrolimus extended-release capsules may be necessary when administered concomitantly with CYP3A inducers or CYP3A inhibitors or cannabidiol [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 , 5.15 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.2 , 7.3 )]. 2.4 Therapeutic Drug Monitoring Measure tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations at least two times on separate days during the first week after initiation of dosing and after a change in dosage, after a change in co-administration of CYP3A4 inducers and/or inhibitors or cannabidiol [see Drug Interactions (7.2 , 7.3 )] , or after a change in renal or hepatic function. When interpreting measured concentrations, consider that the time to achieve tacrolimus steady state is approximately 7 days after initiating or changing the tacrolimus extended-release capsules dose. Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations using a validated assay [e.g., immunoassays or high performance liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometric detection (HPLC/MS/MS)]. The immunosuppressive activity of tacrolimus is mainly due to the parent drug rather than to its metabolites. Immunoassays may react with metabolites as well as the parent drug. Therefore, whole blood tacrolimus trough concentrations obtained with immunoassays may be numerically higher than concentrations obtained with an assay using HPLC/MS/MS. Comparison of the whole blood tacrolimus trough concentrations of patients to those described in the prescribing information and other published literature must be made with knowledge of the assay method(s) employed. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Intravenous (IV) use recommended for patients who cannot tolerate oral formulations (capsules). ( 2.1 , 2.2 ) • Administer capsules consistently with or without food. ( 2.1 ) • Therapeutic drug monitoring is recommended. ( 2.1 , 2.6 ) • Avoid eating grapefruit or drinking grapefruit juice. ( 2.1 ) • See dosing adjustments for African-American patients ( 2.2 ), hepatic and renal impaired. ( 2.4 , 2.5 ) • For complete dosing information, see the Full Prescribing Information . ADULT Patient Population Initial Oral Dosage (formulation) Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range Kidney Transplant With azathioprine 0.2 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1 to 3: 7 to 20 ng/mL Month 4 to 12: 5 to 15 ng/mL With MMF/IL-2 receptor antagonist 0.1 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 4 to 11 ng/mL Liver Transplant With corticosteroids only 0.1 to 0.15 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 5 to 20 ng/mL Heart Transplant With azathioprine or MMF MMF= Mycophenolate mofetil 0.075 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1 to 3: 10 to 20 ng/mL Month ≥ 4: 5 to 15 ng/mL PEDIATRIC Liver Transplant 0.15 to 0.2 mg/kg/day capsules divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 5 to 20 ng/mL 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Tacrolimus capsules should not be used without supervision by a physician with experience in immunosuppressive therapy. Tacrolimus capsules are not interchangeable or substitutable for other tacrolimus extended-release products. This is because rate of absorption following the administration of an extended-release tacrolimus product is not equivalent to that of an immediate-release tacrolimus drug product. Under-or overexposure to tacrolimus may result in graft rejection or other serious adverse reactions. Changes between tacrolimus immediate-release and extended-release dosage forms must occur under physician supervision [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] . Intravenous Formulation - Administration Precautions due to Risk of Anaphylaxis Intravenous use is recommended for patients who cannot tolerate oral formulations, and conversion from intravenous to oral tacrolimus is recommended as soon as oral therapy can be tolerated to minimize the risk of anaphylactic reactions that occurred with injectables containing castor oil derivatives [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] . Patients receiving tacrolimus injection should be under continuous observation for at least the first 30 minutes following the start of the infusion and at frequent intervals thereafter. If signs or symptoms of anaphylaxis occur, the infusion should be stopped. An aqueous solution of epinephrine should be available at the bedside as well as a source of oxygen. Oral Formulations (Capsules) If patients are able to initiate oral therapy, the recommended starting doses should be initiated. Tacrolimus capsules may be taken with or without food. However, since the presence of food affects the bioavailability of tacrolimus, if taken with food, it should be taken consistently the same way each time [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. General Administration Instructions Patients should not eat grapefruit or drink grapefruit juice in combination with tacrolimus capsules [see Drug Interactions (7.2)] . Tacrolimus capsules should not be used simultaneously with cyclosporine. Tacrolimus capsules or cyclosporine should be discontinued at least 24 hours before initiating the other. In the presence of elevated tacrolimus capsules or cyclosporine concentrations, dosing with the other drug usually should be further delayed. Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) is recommended for all patients receiving tacrolimus capsules [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)] . 2.2 Dosage Recommendations for Adult Kidney, Liver, or Heart Transplant Patients - Capsules and Injection Capsules If patients are able to tolerate oral therapy, the recommended oral starting doses should be initiated. The initial dose of tacrolimus capsules should be administered no sooner than 6 hours after transplantation in the liver or heart transplant patients. In kidney transplant patients, the initial dose of tacrolimus capsules may be administered within 24 hours of transplantation, but should be delayed until renal function has recovered. The initial oral tacrolimus capsules dosage recommendations for adult patients with kidney, liver, or heart transplants and whole blood trough concentration range are shown in Table 1. Perform therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) to ensure that patients are within the ranges listed in Table 1. Table 1. Summary of Initial Oral Tacrolimus Capsules Dosage Recommendations and Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range in Adults Patient Population Tacrolimus Capsules African-American patients may require higher doses compared to Caucasians (see Table 2) Initial Oral Dosage Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range Kidney Transplant With Azathioprine 0.2 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1 to 3: 7 to 20 ng/mL Month 4 to 12: 5 to 15 ng/mL With MMF/IL-2 receptor antagonist In a second smaller trial, the initial dose of tacrolimus was 0.15 to 0.2 mg/kg/day and observed tacrolimus concentrations were 6 to 16 ng/mL during month 1 to 3 and 5 to 12 ng/mL during month 4 to 12 [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] 0.1 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 4 to 11 ng/mL Liver Transplant With corticosteroids only 0.10 to 0.15 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 5 to 20 ng/mL Heart Transplant With azathioprine or MMF 0.075 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1 to 3: 10 to 20 ng/mL Month ≥ 4: 5 to 15 ng/mL Dosage should be titrated based on clinical assessments of rejection and tolerability. Tacrolimus capsules dosages lower than the recommended initial dosage may be sufficient as maintenance therapy. Adjunct therapy with adrenal corticosteroids is recommended early post-transplant. The data in kidney transplant patients indicate that the African-American patients required a higher dose to attain comparable trough concentrations compared to Caucasian patients (Table 2) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.8) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 2. Comparative Dose and Trough Concentrations Based on Race Time After Transplant Caucasian African-American N = 114 N = 56 Dose (mg/kg) Trough Concentrations (ng/mL) Dose (mg/kg) Trough Concentrations (ng/mL) Day 7 0.18 12.0 0.23 10.9 Month 1 0.17 12.8 0.26 12.9 Month 6 0.14 11.8 0.24 11.5 Month 12 0.13 10.1 0.19 11.0 Intravenous Injection Tacrolimus injection should be used only as a continuous intravenous infusion and should be discontinued as soon as the patient can tolerate oral administration. The first dose of tacrolimus capsules should be given 8 to 12 hours after discontinuing the intravenous infusion. The recommended starting dose of tacrolimus injection is 0.03 to 0.05 mg/kg/day in kidney or liver transplant and 0.01 mg/kg/day in heart transplant given as a continuous intravenous infusion. Adult patients should receive doses at the lower end of the dosing range. Concomitant adrenal corticosteroid therapy is recommended early post-transplantation. The whole blood trough concentration range described in Table 1 pertains to oral administration of tacrolimus only; while monitoring tacrolimus concentrations in patients receiving tacrolimus injection as a continuous intravenous infusion may have some utility, the observed concentrations will not represent comparable exposures to those estimated by the trough concentrations observed in patients on oral therapy. Anaphylactic reactions have occurred with injectables containing castor oil derivatives, such as tacrolimus injection. Therefore, monitoring for signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis is recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ]. 2.3 Dosage Recommendations for Pediatric Liver Transplant Patients Oral formulation (capsules) Pediatric patients, in general, need higher tacrolimus doses compared to adults: the higher dose requirements may decrease as the child grows older. Recommendations for the initial oral dosage for pediatric transplant patients and whole blood trough concentration range are shown in Table 3. Perform TDM to ensure that patients are within the ranges listed in Table 3. Table 3. Summary of Initial Tacrolimus Capsules Dosage Recommendations and Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range in Children Patient Population Initial Tacrolimus Capsules Dosing Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range Pediatric liver transplant patients See Clinical Studies (14.2), Liver Transplantation 0.15 to 0.2 mg/kg/day capsules divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 5 to 20 ng/mL For conversion of pediatric patients from tacrolimus for oral suspension to Tacrolimus capsules or from tacrolimus capsules to tacrolimus for oral suspension, the total daily dose should remain the same. Following conversion from one formulation to another formulation of tacrolimus, therapeutic drug monitoring is recommended [ see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] . Intravenous Injection If a patient is unable to receive an oral formulation, the patient may be started on tacrolimus injection. For pediatric liver transplant patients, the intravenous dose is 0.03 to 0.05 mg/kg/day. Additional pediatric use information is approved for Astellas Pharma US, Inc.’s Prograf (tacrolimus) products. However, due to Astellas Pharma US, Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.4 Dosage Modification for Patients with Renal Impairment Due to its potential for nephrotoxicity, consider dosing tacrolimus at the lower end of the therapeutic dosing range in patients who have received a liver or heart transplant and have pre-existing renal impairment. Further reductions in dose below the targeted range may be required. In kidney transplant patients with post-operative oliguria, the initial dose of tacrolimus should be administered no sooner than 6 hours and within 24 hours of transplantation, but may be delayed until renal function shows evidence of recovery [ see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.5 Dosage Modification for Patients with Hepatic Impairment Due to the reduced clearance and prolonged half-life, patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh ≥ 10) may require lower doses of tacrolimus. Close monitoring of blood concentrations is warranted. The use of tacrolimus in liver transplant recipients experiencing post-transplant hepatic impairment may be associated with increased risk of developing renal insufficiency related to high whole blood concentrations of tacrolimus. These patients should be monitored closely and dosage adjustments should be considered. Some evidence suggests that lower doses should be used in these patients [ see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Use in Specific Populations (8.7) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.6 Therapeutic Drug Monitoring Monitoring of tacrolimus blood concentrations in conjunction with other laboratory and clinical parameters is considered an essential aid to patient management for the evaluation of rejection, toxicity, dose adjustments, and compliance. Whole blood trough concentration range can be found in Table 1. Factors influencing frequency of monitoring include but are not limited to hepatic or renal dysfunction, the addition or discontinuation of potentially interacting drugs and the post-transplant time. Blood concentration monitoring is not a replacement for renal and liver function monitoring and tissue biopsies. Data from clinical trials show that tacrolimus whole blood concentrations were most variable during the first week post-transplantation. The relative risks of toxicity and efficacy failure are related to tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations. Therefore, monitoring of whole blood trough concentrations is recommended to assist in the clinical evaluation of toxicity and efficacy failure. Methods commonly used for the assay of tacrolimus include high-performance liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometric detection (HPLC/MS/MS) and immunoassays. Immunoassays may react with metabolites as well as parent compound. Therefore, assay results obtained with immunoassays may have a positive bias relative to results of HPLC/MS. The bias may depend upon the specific assay and laboratory. Comparison of the concentrations in published literature to patient concentrations using the current assays must be made with detailed knowledge of the assay methods and biological matrices employed. Whole blood is the matrix of choice and specimens should be collected into tubes containing ethylene diamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA) anticoagulant. Heparin anticoagulation is not recommended because of the tendency to form clots on storage. Samples which are not analyzed immediately should be stored at room temperature or in a refrigerator and assayed within 7 days; see assay instructions for specifics. If samples are to be kept longer, they should be deep frozen at -20° C. One study showed drug recovery > 90% for samples stored at -20° C for 6 months, with reduced recovery observed after 6 months. 2.7 Preparation and Administration Instructions of Tacrolimus Injection for Pharmacists Tacrolimus can cause fetal harm. Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures 1 [see How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16.4) ] . Tacrolimus injection must be diluted with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection or 5% Dextrose Injection to a concentration between 0.004 mg/mL and 0.02 mg/mL prior to use. Diluted infusion solution should be stored in glass or polyethylene containers and should be discarded after 24 hours. The diluted infusion solution should not be stored in a polyvinyl chloride (PVC) container due to decreased stability and the potential for extraction of phthalates. In situations where more dilute solutions are utilized (e.g., pediatric dosing, etc.), PVC-free tubing should likewise be used to minimize the potential for significant drug adsorption onto the tubing. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Due to the chemical instability of tacrolimus in alkaline media, tacrolimus injection should not be mixed or co-infused with solutions of pH 9 or greater (e.g., ganciclovir or acyclovir). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Intravenous (IV) use recommended for patients who cannot tolerate oralformulations (capsules). ( 2.1 , 2.2) • Administer capsules consistently with or without food.( 2.1) • Therapeutic drug monitoring is recommended. (2.1 ) • See dosage adjustments for African-American patients (2.2) , hepatic and renal impaired. ( 2.4 , 2.5 ) • For complete dosing information, see Full Prescribing Information. ADULT Patient Population Initial OralDosage (formulation) Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range Kidney Transplant With azathioprine 0.2 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1 to 3: 7 to 20 ng/mL Month 4 to 12: 5 to 15 ng/mL With MMF/IL-2 receptor antagonist 0.1 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 4 to 11 ng/mL Liver Transplant With corticosteroids only 0.1 to 0.15 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 5 to 20 ng/mL Heart Transplant With azathioprine or MMF 0.075 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1 to 3: 10 to 20 ng/mL Month ≥ 4: 5 to 15 ng/mL PEDIATRIC Patient Population Initial Oral Dosage (formulation) Whole Blood Trough Concerntration Range Liver Transplant 0.15 to 0.2 mg/kg/day capsules divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 5 to 20 ng/mL MMF= Mycophenolate mofetil 1 Patients with cystic fibrosis may require higher doses due to lower bioavailability. 2 Dose at 0.1 mg/kg/day if antibody induction treatment is administered. 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Tacrolimus capsules should not be used without supervision by a physician with experience in immunosuppressive therapy. Changes between tacrolimus immediate-release and extended-release dosage forms must occur under physician supervision [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Intravenous Formulation – Administration Precautions due to Risk of Anaphylaxis Intravenous use is recommended for patients who cannot tolerate oral formulations, and conversion from intravenous to oral tacrolimus is recommended as soon as oral therapy can be tolerated to minimize the risk of anaphylactic reactions that occurred with injectables containing castor oil derivatives [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] . Oral Formulation (Capsules) If patients are able to initiate oral therapy, the recommended starting doses should be initiated. However, since the presence of food affects the bioavailability of tacrolimus, if taken with food, it should be taken consistently the same way each time [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)]. General Administration Instructions Patients should not eat grapefruit or drink grapefruit juice in combination with tacrolimus [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )] . Tacrolimus should not be used simultaneously with cyclosporine. Tacrolimus or cyclosporine should be discontinued at least 24 hours before initiating the other. In the presence of elevated tacrolimus or cyclosporine concentrations, dosing with the other drug usually should be further delayed. Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) is recommended for all patients receiving tacrolimus [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )]. 2.2 Dosage Recommendations for Adult Kidney, Liver or Heart Transplant Patients – Capsules and Injection Capsules If patients are able to tolerate oral therapy, the recommended oral starting doses should be initiated. The initial oral tacrolimus capsule dosage recommendations for adult patients with kidney, liver or heart transplants and whole blood trough concentration range are shown in Table 1. Summary of Initial Oral Tacrolimus Capsules Dosage Recommendations and Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range in Adults Patient Population Tacrolimus Capsules 1 Initial Oral Dosage Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range Kidney Transplant With Azathioprine 0.2 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1 to 3: 7 to 20 ng/mL Month 4 to 12: 5 to 15 ng/mL With MMF/IL-2 receptor antagonist 2 0.1 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 4 to 11 ng/mL Liver Transplant With corticosteroids only 0.10 to 0.15 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 5 to 20 ng/mL Heart Transplant With azathioprine or MMF 0.075 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1 to 3: 10 to 20 ng/mL Month ≥ 4: 5 to 15 ng/mL 1 African-American patients may require higher doses compared to Caucasians (see Table 2 ). 2 In a second smaller trial, the initial dose of tacrolimus was 0.15 to 0.2 mg/kg/day and observed tacrolimus concentrations were 6 to 16 ng/mL during month 1 to 3 and 5 to 12 ng/mL during month 4 to 12 [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. Dosage should be titrated based on clinical assessments of rejection and tolerability. Tacrolimus capsule dosages lower than the recommended initial dosage may be sufficient as maintenance therapy. The data in kidney transplant patients indicate that the African-American patients required a higher dose to attain comparable trough concentrations compared to Caucasian patients (Table 2) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.8 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Comparative Dose and Trough Concentrations Based on Race Time After Transplant Caucasian N=114 African-American N=56 Dose (mg/kg) Trough Concentrations (ng/mL) Dose (mg/kg) Trough Concentrations (ng/mL ) Day 7 0.18 12.0 0.23 10.9 Month 1 0.17 12.8 0.26 12.9 Month 6 0.14 11.8 0.24 11.5 Month 12 0.13 10.1 0.19 11.0 Intravenous Injection Tacrolimus injection should be used only as a continuous intravenous infusion and should be discontinued as soon as the patient can tolerate oral administration. The recommended starting dose of tacrolimus injection is 0.03 to 0.05 mg/kg/day in kidney or liver transplant, and 0.01 mg/kg/day in heart transplant, given as a continuous intravenous infusion. Therefore, monitoring for signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )]. 2.3 Dosage Recommendations for Pediatric Liver Transplant Patients Oral formulation (capsules) Pediatric patients in general, need higher tacrolimus doses compared to adults: the higher dose requirements may decrease as the child grows older. Summary of Initial Tacrolimus Capsule Dosing Recommendations and Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range in Children Patient Population Initial Tacrolimus Capsule Dosing Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range Pediatric liver transplant patients 2 0.15 to 0.2 mg/kg/day capsules divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 5 to 20 ng/mL 2 . See Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) , Liver Transplantation. For conversion of pediatric patients from tacrolimus for oral suspension to tacrolimus capsules or from tacrolimus capsules to tacrolimus for oral suspension, the total daily dose should remain the same. Following conversion from one formulation to another formulation of tacrolimus, therapeutic drug monitoring is recommended [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )] . 2.4 Dosage Modification for Patients with Renal Impairment Due to its potential for nephrotoxicity, consider dosing tacrolimus capsules at the lower end of the therapeutic dosing range in patients who have received a liver or heart transplant and have pre-existing renal impairment. In kidney transplant patients with post-operative oliguria, the initial dose of tacrolimus capsules should be administered no sooner than 6 hours and within 24 hours of transplantation, but may be delayed until renal function shows evidence of recovery [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2.5 Dosage Modification for Patients with Hepatic Impairment Due to the reduced clearance and prolonged half-life, patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh ≥ 10) may require lower doses of tacrolimus capsules. The use of tacrolimus capsules in liver transplant recipients experiencing post-transplant hepatic impairment may be associated with increased risk of developing renal insufficiency related to high whole blood concentrations of tacrolimus. These patients should be monitored closely, and dosage adjustments should be considered. Some evidence suggests that lower doses should be used in these patients [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2.6 Therapeutic Drug Monitoring Monitoring of tacrolimus blood concentrations in conjunction with other laboratory and clinical parameters is considered an essential aid to patient management for the evaluation of rejection, toxicity, dose adjustments and compliance. If samples are to be kept longer, they should be deep frozen at -20°C. One study showed drug recovery >90% for samples stored at -20°C for 6 months, with reduced recovery observed after 6 months. Under- or overexposure to tacrolimus may result in graft rejection or other serious adverse reactions. Changes between tacrolimus immediate-release and extended-release dosage forms must occur under physician supervision [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Intravenous Formulation – Administration Precautions due to Risk of Anaphylaxis Intravenous use is recommended for patients who cannot tolerate oral formulations, and conversion from intravenous to oral tacrolimus is recommended as soon as oral therapy can be tolerated to minimize the risk of anaphylactic reactions that occurred with injectables containing castor oil derivatives [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. General Administration Instructions Patients should not eat grapefruit or drink grapefruit juice in combination with tacrolimus capsules [see Drug Interactions (7.2)]. Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) is recommended for all patients receiving tacrolimus capsules [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)]. 2.2 Dosage Recommendations for Adult Kidney, Liver, or Heart Transplant Patients – Capsules Capsules If patients are able to tolerate oral therapy, the recommended oral starting doses should be initiated. The initial dose of tacrolimus capsules should be administered no sooner than 6 hours after transplantation in the liver and heart transplant patients. The initial oral tacrolimus capsule dosage recommendations for adult patients with kidney, liver, or heart transplants and whole blood trough concentration range are shown in Table 1. Summary of Initial Oral Tacrolimus Capsules Dosage Recommendations and Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range in Adults * African-American patients may require higher doses compared to Caucasians (see Table 2) † In a second smaller trial, the initial dose of tacrolimus was 0.15 to 0.2 mg/kg/day and observed tacrolimus concentrations were 6 to 16 ng/mL during month 1 to 3 and 5 to 12 ng/mL during month 4 to 12 [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Patient Population Tacrolimus Capsules Initial Oral Dosage* Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range Kidney Transplant With Azathioprine 0.2 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1 to 3: 7 to 20 ng/mL Month 4 to 12: 5 to 15 ng/mL With MMF/IL-2 receptor antagonist† 0.1 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 4 to 11 ng/mL Liver Transplant With corticosteroids only 0.10 to 0.15 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 5 to 20 ng/mL Heart Transplant With azathioprine or MMF 0.075 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1 to 3: 10 to 20 ng/mL Month ≥4: 5 to 15 ng/mL Dosage should be titrated based on clinical assessments of rejection and tolerability. The data in kidney transplant patients indicate that the African-American patients required a higher dose to attain comparable trough concentrations compared to Caucasian patients (Table 2) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.8) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Comparative Dose and Trough Concentrations Based on Race Time After Transplant Caucasian N=114 African-American N=56 Dose (mg/kg) Trough Concentrations (ng/mL) Dose (mg/kg) Trough Concentrations (ng/mL) Day 7 0.18 12.0 0.23 10.9 Month 1 0.17 12.8 0.26 12.9 Month 6 0.14 11.8 0.24 11.5 Month 12 0.13 10.1 0.19 11.0 Intravenous Injection Anaphylactic reactions have occurred with injectables containing castor oil derivatives, such as tacrolimus injection. Therefore, monitoring for signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Summary of Initial Tacrolimus Capsule Dosage Recommendations and Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range in Children * See Clinical Studies (14.2), Liver Transplantation Patient Population Initial Tacrolimus Capsule Dosing Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range Pediatric liver transplant patients* 0.15 to 0.2 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 5 to 20 ng/mL For conversion of pediatric patients from tacrolimus granules to tacrolimus capsules or from tacrolimus capsules to tacrolimus granules, the total daily dose should remain the same. Following conversion from one formulation to another formulation of tacrolimus, therapeutic drug monitoring is recommended [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)]. 2.4 Dosage Modification for Patients with Renal Impairment Due to its potential for nephrotoxicity, consider dosing tacrolimus capsules at the lower end of the therapeutic dosing range in patients who have received a liver, or heart transplant, and have pre-existing renal impairment. In kidney transplant patients with post-operative oliguria, the initial dose of tacrolimus capsules should be administered no sooner than 6 hours and within 24 hours of transplantation, but may be delayed until renal function shows evidence of recovery [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.6), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2.5 Dosage Modification for Patients with Hepatic Impairment Due to the reduced clearance and prolonged half-life, patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh ≥10) may require lower doses of tacrolimus capsules. Some evidence suggests that lower doses should be used in these patients [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.7), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Whole blood is the matrix of choice and specimens should be collected into tubes containing ethylene diamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA) anti-coagulant. Heparin anti-coagulation is not recommended because of the tendency to form clots on storage. One study showed drug recovery >90% for samples stored at -20° C for 6 months, with reduced recovery observed after 6 months. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ADULT Tacrolimus ointment 0.03% and 0.1% • Apply a thin layer of tacrolimus ointment to the affected skin twice daily. The minimum amount should be rubbed in gently and completely to control signs and symptoms of atopic dermatitis. Stop using when signs and symptoms of atopic dermatitis resolve. • If signs and symptoms (e.g. itch, rash, and redness) do not improve within 6 weeks, patients should be re-examined by their healthcare provider to confirm the diagnosis of atopic dermatitis. • Continuous long-term use of topical calcineurin inhibitors, including tacrolimus ointment should be avoided, and application should be limited to areas of involvement with atopic dermatitis. The safety of tacrolimus ointment under occlusion, which may promote systemic exposure, has not been evaluated. Tacrolimus ointment should not be used with occlusive dressings. PEDIATRIC – FOR CHILDREN 2-15 YEARS Tacrolimus ointment 0.03% • Apply a thin layer of tacrolimus ointment, 0.03% to the affected skin twice daily. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer capsules consistently with or without food. ( 2.1 ) • See dosage adjustments for African-American patients ( 2.2 ), hepatic and renal impaired. ADULT Patient Population Initial Oral Dosage Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range Kidney Transplant With azathioprine 0.2 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1 to 3: 7 to 20 ng/mL Month 4 to 12: 5 to 15 ng/mL With MMF/IL-2 receptor antagonist 0.1 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 4 to 11 ng/mL Liver Transplant With corticosteroids only 0.1 to 0.15 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 5 to 20 ng/mL Heart Transplant With azathioprine or MMF 0.075 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1 to 3: 10 to 20 ng/mL Month ≥4: 5 to 15 ng/mL PEDIATRIC Patient Population Initial Oral Dosage Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range Liver Transplant 0.15 to 0.2 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 5 to 20 ng/mL MMF=Mycophenolate mofetil 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Tacrolimus capsules should not be used without supervision by a physician with experience in immunosuppressive therapy. Changes between tacrolimus immediate-release and extended-release dosage forms must occur under physician supervision [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Intravenous Formulation – Administration Precautions due to Risk of Anaphylaxis Intravenous use is recommended for patients who cannot tolerate oral formulations, and conversion from intravenous to oral tacrolimus is recommended as soon as oral therapy can be tolerated to minimize the risk of anaphylactic reactions that occurred with injectables containing castor oil derivatives [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )]. However, since the presence of food affects the bioavailability of tacrolimus, if taken with food, it should be taken consistently the same way each time [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. General Administration Instructions Patients should not eat grapefruit or drink grapefruit juice in combination with tacrolimus capsules [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )] . Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) is recommended for all patients receiving tacrolimus capsules [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )]. The initial oral tacrolimus capsule dosage recommendations for adult patients with kidney, liver, or heart transplants and whole blood trough concentration range are shown in Table 1 . Perform therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) to ensure that patients are within the ranges listed in Table 1 . Summary of Initial Oral Tacrolimus Capsules Dosage Recommendations and Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range in Adults Patient Population Tacrolimus Capsules Initial Oral Dosage African-American patients may require higher doses compared to Caucasians (see Table 2 ) Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range Kidney Transplant With Azathioprine 0.2 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1 to 3: 7 to 20 ng/mL Month 4 to 12: 5 to 15 ng/mL With MMF/IL-2 receptor antagonist In a second smaller trial, the initial dose of tacrolimus was 0.15 to 0.2 mg/kg/day and observed tacrolimus concentrations were 6 to 16 ng/mL during month 1 to 3 and 5 to 12 ng/mL during month 4 to 12 [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. 0.1 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 4 to 11 ng/mL Liver Transplant With corticosteroids only 0.10 to 0.15 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 5 to 20 ng/mL Heart Transplant With azathioprine or MMF 0.075 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1 to 3: 10 to 20 ng/mL Month ≥4: 5 to 15 ng/mL Dosage should be titrated based on clinical assessments of rejection and tolerability. The data in kidney transplant patients indicate that the African-American patients required a higher dose to attain comparable trough concentrations compared to Caucasian patients ( Table 2 ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.8 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Recommendations for the initial oral dosage for pediatric transplant patients and whole blood trough concentration range are shown in Table 3 . Perform TDM to ensure that patients are within the ranges listed in Table 3 . Summary of Initial Tacrolimus Capsule Dosage Recommendations and Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range in Children Patient Population Initial Tacrolimus Capsule Dosing Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range Pediatric liver transplant patients See Clinical Studies (14.2) , Liver Transplantation 0.15 to 0.2 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 5 to 20 ng/mL For conversion of pediatric patients from tacrolimus granules to tacrolimus capsules or from tacrolimus capsules to tacrolimus granules, the total daily dose should remain the same. Following conversion from one formulation to another formulation of tacrolimus, therapeutic drug monitoring is recommended [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )]. In kidney transplant patients with post-operative oliguria, the initial dose of tacrolimus capsules should be administered no sooner than 6 hours and within 24 hours of transplantation, but may be delayed until renal function shows evidence of recovery [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Some evidence suggests that lower doses should be used in these patients [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Whole blood trough concentration range can be found in Table 1 . (2.1, 2.2) • Administer capsules consistently with or without food. (2.1) • Therapeutic drug monitoring is recommended. (2.1, 2.6) • Avoid eating grapefruit or drinking grapefruit juice. (2.1) • See dosage adjustments for African-American patients (2.2), hepatic and renal impaired. (2.4, 2.5) • For complete dosing information, see Full Prescribing Information. MMF = Mycophenolate mofetil 1. Patients with cystic fibrosis may require higher doses due to lower bioavailability. 2. Dose at 0.1 mg/kg/day if antibody induction treatment is administered. ADULT Patient Population Initial Oral Dosage (formulation) Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range Kidney Transplant With azathioprine 0.2 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1-3: 7-20 ng/mL Month 4-12: 5-15 ng/mL With MMF/IL-2 receptor antagonist 0.1 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1-12: 4-11 ng/mL Liver Transplant With corticosteroids only 0.1-0.15 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1-12: 5-20 ng/mL Heart Transplant With azathioprine or MMF 0.075 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1-3: 10-20 ng/mL Month ≥ 4: 5-15 ng/mL PEDIATRIC Patient Population Initial Oral Dosage (formulation) Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range Liver Transplant 0.15-0.2 mg/kg/day capsules divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1-12: 5-20 ng/mL 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Tacrolimus capsules should not be used without supervision by a physician with experience in immunosuppressive therapy. 2.2 Dosage Recommendations for Adult Kidney, Liver, or Heart Transplant Patients - Capsules Capsules If patients are able to tolerate oral therapy, the recommended oral starting doses should be initiated. The initial dose of tacrolimus capsules should be administered no sooner than 6 hours after transplantation in the liver, or heart transplant patients. Summary of Initial Oral Tacrolimus Capsules Dosage Recommendations and Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range in Adults 1. African-American patients may require higher doses compared to Caucasians (see Table 2) 2. In a second smaller trial, the initial dose of tacrolimus was 0.15-0.2 mg/kg/day and observed tacrolimus concentrations were 6-16 ng/mL during month 1-3 and 5-12 ng/mL during month 4-12 [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. 3. Patients with cystic fibrosis may require higher doses due to lower bioavailability [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Patient Population Tacrolimus Capsules 1 Initial Oral Dosage Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range Kidney Transplant With Azathioprine 0.2 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1-3: 7-20 ng/mL Month 4-12: 5-15 ng/mL With MMF/IL-2 receptor antagonist 2 0.1 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1-12: 4-11 ng/mL Liver Transplant With corticosteroids only 0.10-0.15 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1-12: 5-20 ng/mL Heart Transplant With azathioprine or MMF 0.075 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1-3: 10-20 ng/mL Month ≥ 4: 5-15 ng/mL Dosage should be titrated based on clinical assessments of rejection and tolerability. The data in kidney transplant patients indicate that the African-American patients required a higher dose to attain comparable trough concentrations compared to Caucasian patients (Table 2) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.8) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Comparative Dose and Trough Concentrations Based on Race Time After Transplant Caucasian N=114 African-American N=56 Dose (mg/kg) Trough Concentrations (ng/mL) Dose (mg/kg) Trough Concentrations (ng/mL) Day 7 0.18 12.0 0.23 10.9 Month 1 0.17 12.8 0.26 12.9 Month 6 0.14 11.8 0.24 11.5 Month 12 0.13 10.1 0.19 11.0 Intravenous Injection Tacrolimus injection should be used only as a continuous intravenous infusion and should be discontinued as soon as the patient can tolerate oral administration. The first dose of tacrolimus capsules should be given 8-12 hours after discontinuing the intravenous infusion. The recommended starting dose of tacrolimus injection is 0.03-0.05 mg/kg/day in kidney and liver transplant, and 0.01 mg/kg/day in heart transplant given as a continuous intravenous infusion. Summary of Initial Tacrolimus Capsule Dosage Recommendations and Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range in Children 1. See Clinical Studies (14.2), Liver Transplantation. Patient Population Initial Tacrolimus Capsule Dosing Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range Pediatric liver transplant patients 1 0.15 - 0.2 mg/kg/day capsules divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1-12: 5-20 ng/mL For conversion of pediatric patients from tacrolimus for oral suspension to tacrolimus capsules or from tacrolimus capsules to tacrolimus for oral suspension, the total daily dose should remain the same. For pediatric liver transplant patients, the intravenous dose is 0.03-0.05 mg/kg/day. Additional pediatric use information is approved for Astellas Pharma US, Inc.'s Prograf (tacrolimus) products. 2.4 Dosage Modification for Patients with Renal Impairment Due to its potential for nephrotoxicity, consider dosing tacrolimus capsules at the lower end of the therapeutic dosing range in patients who have received a liver or heart transplant, and have pre-existing renal impairment. Some evidence suggests that lower doses should be used in these patients [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. One study showed drug recovery > 90% for samples stored at -20°C for 6 months, with reduced recovery observed after 6 months. (2.1 ) • See dosage adjustments for African-American patients (2.2), hepatic and renal impaired. ADULT Patient Population Initial Oral Dosage (formulation) Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range Kidney Transplant With azathioprine 0.2 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1 to 3: 7 to 20 ng/mL Month 4 to 12: 5 to 15 ng/mL With MMF/IL-2 receptor antagonist 0.1 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 4 to 11 ng/mL Liver Transplant With corticosteroids only 0.1 to 0.15 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 5 to 20 ng/mL Heart Transplant With azathioprine or MMF 0.075 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1 to 3: 10 to 20 ng/mL Month ≥ 4: 5 to 15 ng/mL PEDIATRIC Patient Population Initial Oral Dosage (formulation) Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range Liver Transplant 0.15 to 0.2 mg/kg/day capsules divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 5 to 20 ng/mL MMF= Mycophenolate mofetil 1 Patients with cystic fibrosis may require higher doses due to lower bioavailability. 2 Dose at 0.1 mg/kg/day if antibody cell depleting induction treatment is administered. Intravenous Formulation – Administration Precautions due to Risk of Anaphylaxis Intravenous use is recommended for patients who cannot tolerate oral formulations, and conversion from intravenous to oral tacrolimus is recommended as soon as oral therapy can be tolerated to minimize the risk of anaphylactic reactions that occurred with injectables containing castor oil derivatives [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9 )]. General Administration Instructions Patients should not eat grapefruit or drink grapefruit juice in combination with tacrolimus [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )]. 2.2 Dosage Recommendations for Adult Kidney, Liver, or Heart Transplant Patients-Capsules and Injection Capsules IIf patients are able to tolerate oral therapy, the recommended oral starting doses should be initiated. Perform therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) to ensure that patients are within the ranges listed in Table 1.. Summary of Initial Oral Tacrolimus Capsules Dosage Recommendations and Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range in Adults Patient Population Tacrolimus Capsules 1 Initial Oral Dosage Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range Kidney Transplant With Azathioprine 0.2 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1 to 3: 7 to 20 ng/mL Month 4 to 12: 5 to 15 ng/mL With MMF/IL-2 receptor antagonist 2 0.1 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 4 to 11 ng/mL Liver Transplant With corticosteroids only 0.10 to 0.15 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1 to 12: 5 to 20 ng/mL Heart Transplant With azathioprine or MMF 0.075 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1 to 3: 10 to 20 ng/mL Month ≥ 4: 5 to 15 ng/mL 1 African-American patients may require higher doses compared to Caucasians (see Table 2). 2 In a second smaller trial, the initial dose of tacrolimus was 0.15 to 0.2 mg/kg/day and observed tacrolimus concentrations were 6 to 16 ng/mL during month 1 to 3 and 5 to 12 ng/mL during month 4 to 12 [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Concomitant adrenal corticosteroid therapy is recommended early post-transplantation.. See Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ), Liver Transplantation. 2.4 Dosage Modification for Patients with Renal Impairment Due to its potential for nephrotoxicity, consider dosing tacrolimus capsules at the lower end of the therapeutic dosing range in patients who have received a liver, or heart transplant and have pre-existing renal impairment. Immunoassays may react with metabolites as well as the parent compound. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer capsules consistently with or without food. ( 2.1 ) Therapeutic drug monitoring is recommended. ( 2.1 , 2.6 ) Avoid eating grapefruit or drinking grapefruit juice. ( 2.1 ) See dosage adjustments for African-American patients ( 2.2 ), hepatic and renal impaired. ( 2.4 , 2.5 ) For complete dosing information, see Full Prescribing Information. MMF = Mycophenolate mofetil ADULT Patient Population Initial Oral Dosage Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range Kidney Transplant With azathioprine 0.2 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1-3: 7-20 ng/mL Month 4-12: 5-15 ng/mL With MMF/IL-2 receptor antagonist 0.1 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1-12: 4-11 ng/mL Liver Transplant With corticosteroids only 0.1-0.15 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1-12: 5-20 ng/mL Heart Transplant With azathioprine or MMF 0.075 mg/kg/day capsules, divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1-3: 10-20 ng/mL Month ≥ 4: 5-15 ng/mL PEDIATRIC Patient Population Initial Oral Dosage Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range Kidney Transplant 0.3 mg/kg/day capsules divided into two doses, every 12 hours. Month 1-12: 5-20 ng/mL Liver Transplant 0.15-0.2 mg/kg/day capsules divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1-12: 5-20 ng/mL Heart Transplant 0.3 mg/kg/day 2 capsules divided in two doses, every 12 hours Month 1-12: 5-20 ng/mL 2. Changes between tacrolimus immediate-release and extended-release dosage forms must occur under physician supervision [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . However, since the presence of food affects the bioavailability of tacrolimus, if taken with food, it should be taken consistently the same way each time [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . General Administration Instructions Patients should not eat grapefruit or drink grapefruit juice in combination with tacrolimus capsules [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ] . Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) is recommended for all patients receiving tacrolimus capsules [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] . Summary of Initial Oral Tacrolimus Capsules Dosage Recommendations and Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range in Adults Patient Population Tacrolimus Capsules African-American patients may require higher doses compared to Caucasians (see Table 2). Initial Oral Dosage Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range Kidney Transplant With Azathioprine 0.2 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1-3: 7-20 ng/mL Month 4-12: 5-15 ng/mL With MMF/IL-2 receptor antagonist In a second smaller trial, the initial dose of tacrolimus was 0.15-0.2 mg/kg/day and observed tacrolimus concentrations were 6-16 ng/mL during month 1-3 and 5-12 ng/mL during month 4-12 [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] . 0.1 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1-12: 4-11 ng/mL Liver Transplant With corticosteroids only 0.10-0.15 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1-12: 5-20 ng/mL Heart Transplant With azathioprine or MMF 0.075 mg/kg/day, divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1-3: 10-20 ng/mL Month ≥ 4: 5-15 ng/mL Dosage should be titrated based on clinical assessments of rejection and tolerability. The data in kidney transplant patients indicate that the African-American patients required a higher dose to attain comparable trough concentrations compared to Caucasian patients (Table 2) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.8) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Comparative Dose and Trough Concentrations Based on Race Caucasian N = 114 African-American N = 56 Time After Transplant Dose (mg/kg) Trough Concentrations (ng/mL) Dose (mg/kg) Trough Concentrations (ng/mL) Day 7 0.18 12.0 0.23 10.9 Month 1 0.17 12.8 0.26 12.9 Month 6 0.14 11.8 0.24 11.5 Month 12 0.13 10.1 0.19 11.0 Intravenous Injection Anaphylactic reactions have occurred with injectables containing castor oil derivatives, such as tacrolimus injection. Therefore, monitoring for signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . 2.3 Dosage Recommendations for Pediatric Kidney, Liver, or Heart Transplant Patients Oral Formulation (Capsules) Pediatric patients, in general, need higher tacrolimus doses compared to adults: the higher dose requirements may decrease as the child grows older. Summary of Initial Tacrolimus Capsule Dosage Recommendations and Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range in Children Patient Population Initial Tacrolimus Capsule Dosing Whole Blood Trough Concentration Range Pediatric kidney transplant patients 0.3 mg/kg/day capsules divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1-12: 5-20 ng/mL Pediatric liver transplant patients See Clinical Studies (14.2), Liver Transplantation. 0.15-0.2 mg/kg/day capsules divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours Month 1-12: 5-20 ng/mL Pediatric heart transplant patients 0.3 mg/kg/day Dose at 0.1 mg/kg/day if antibody induction treatment is administered. capsules divided in two doses, administered every 12 hours. Month 1-12: 5-20 ng/mL For conversion of pediatric patients from tacrolimus for oral suspension to tacrolimus capsules or from tacrolimus capsules to tacrolimus for oral suspension, the total daily dose should remain the same. Following conversion from one formulation to another formulation of tacrolimus, therapeutic drug monitoring is recommended [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] . In kidney transplant patients with post-operative oliguria, the initial dose of tacrolimus capsules should be administered no sooner than 6 hours and within 24 hours of transplantation, but may be delayed until renal function shows evidence of recovery [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Some evidence suggests that lower doses should be used in these patients [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Use in Specific Populations (8.7) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ].
Warnings: WARNINGS WARNING Long-term Safety of Topical Calcineurin Inhibitors Has Not Been Established Although a causal relationship has not been established, rare cases of malignancy (e.g., skin and lymphoma) have been reported in patients treated with topical calcineurin inhibitors, including tacrolimus ointment. Therefore: • Continuous long-term use of topical calcineurin inhibitors, including tacrolimus ointment, in any age group should be avoided, and application limited to areas of involvement with atopic dermatitis. • Tacrolimus ointment is not indicated for use in children less than 2 years of age. Only 0.03% tacrolimus ointment is indicated for use in children 2-15 years of age. Prolonged systemic use of calcineurin inhibitors for sustained immunosuppression in animal studies and transplant patients following systemic administration has been associated with an increased risk of infections, lymphomas, and skin malignancies. These risks are associated with the intensity and duration of immunosuppression. Based on the information above and the mechanism of action, there is a concern about potential risk with the use of topical calcineurin inhibitors, including tacrolimus ointment. While a causal relationship has not been established, rare cases of skin malignancy and lymphoma have been reported in patients treated with topical calcineurin inhibitors, including tacrolimus ointment. Therefore: • Tacrolimus ointment should not be used in immunocompromised adults and children. • If signs and symptoms of atopic dermatitis do not improve within 6 weeks, patients should be re-examined by their healthcare provider and their diagnosis be confirmed (see PRECAUTIONS: General ). • The safety of tacrolimus ointment has not been established beyond one year of non-continuous use. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , boxed WARNING , INDICATIONS AND USAGE , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ).
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tacrolimus extended-release capsules is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to tacrolimus [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . Known hypersensitivity to tacrolimus. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tacrolimus capsules are contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to tacrolimus. Tacrolimus injection is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to HCO-60 (polyoxyl 60 hydrogenated castor oil). Hypersensitivity symptoms reported include dyspnea, rash, pruritus, and acute respiratory distress syndrome [ see Adverse Reactions (6) ] . Hypersensitivity to tacrolimus or HCO-60 (polyoxyl 60 hydrogenated castor oil) ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity symptoms reported include dyspnea, rash, pruritus, and acute respiratory distress syndrome [seeAdverse Reactions (6) ]. Hypersensitivity to tacrolimus or HCO-60 (polyoxyl 60 hydrogenated castor oil). Tacrolimus capsules are contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to tacrolimus. Hypersensitivity symptoms reported include dyspnea, rash, pruritus, and acute respiratory distress syndrome [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. CONTRAINDICATIONS Tacrolimus ointment is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to tacrolimus or any other component of the ointment. Hypersensitivity symptoms reported include dyspnea, rash, pruritus, and acute respiratory distress syndrome [see Adverse Reactions ( 6 )] . • Hypersensitivity to tacrolimus or HCO-60 (polyoxyl 60 hydrogenated castor oil). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Hypersensitivity to tacrolimus or HCO-60 (polyoxyl 60 hydrogenated castor oil). ( 4 ) Tacrolimus capsules are contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to tacrolimus. Hypersensitivity symptoms reported include dyspnea, rash, pruritus, and acute respiratory distress syndrome [see Adverse Reactions (6) ]. • Hypersensitivity to tacrolimus ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity symptoms reported include dyspnea, rash, pruritus, and acute respiratory distress syndrome [see Adverse Reactions (6) ] .
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Risk of rejection with strong CYP3A inducers and risk of serious adverse reactions with strong CYP3A inhibitors: Adjust dose and monitor tacrolimus concentrations. ( 2.4 , 5.10 , 7.2 ) Therapeutic drug monitoring and dose reduction for tacrolimus extended-release capsules should be considered when tacrolimus extended-release capsules is co-administered with cannabidiol. ( 2.4 , 5.15 , 7.3 ) See Full Prescribing Information for clinically significant drug interactions. ( 7.1 , 7.2 , 7.3 ) 7.1 Mycophenolic Acid When tacrolimus extended-release capsules is prescribed with a given dose of a mycophenolic acid (MPA) product, exposure to MPA is higher with tacrolimus extended-release capsules co-administration than with cyclosporine co-administration with MPA, because cyclosporine interrupts the enterohepatic recirculation of MPA while tacrolimus does not. Monitor for MPA-associated adverse reactions and reduce the dose of concomitantly administered mycophenolic acid products as needed. 7.2 Effects of Other Drugs on Tacrolimus Extended-Release Capsules Table 5 displays the effects of other drugs on tacrolimus extended-release capsules. Table 5: Effects of Other Drugs/Substances on Tacrolimus Extended-Release Capsules Tacrolimus extended-release capsules dosage adjustment recommendation based on observed effect of co-administered drug on tacrolimus exposures [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)] , literature reports of altered tacrolimus exposures, or the other drug’s known CYP3A inhibitor/inducer status. Drug/Substance Class or Name Drug Interaction Effect Recommendations Grapefruit or grapefruit juice High dose or double strength grapefruit juice is a strong CYP3A inhibitor; low dose or single strength grapefruit juice is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.10 , 5.11 )] . Avoid grapefruit or grapefruit juice. Alcohol May increase the rate of tacrolimus release and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation ) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.10 , 5.11 )] . Avoid alcoholic beverages. Strong CYP3A Inducers Strong CYP3A inhibitor/inducer, based on reported effect on exposures to tacrolimus along with supporting in vitro CYP3A inhibitor/inducer data, or based on drug-drug interaction studies with midazolam (sensitive CYP3A probe substrate). : Antimycobacterials (e.g., rifampin, rifabutin), anticonvulsants (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine and phenobarbital), St John’s wort May decrease tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of rejection [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . Increase tacrolimus extended-release capsules dose and monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Strong CYP3A Inhibitors : Protease inhibitors (e.g., nelfinavir, telaprevir, boceprevir, ritonavir), azole antifungals (e.g., voriconazole, posaconazole, itraconazole, ketoconazole), antibiotics (e.g., clarithromycin, troleandomycin, chloramphenicol), nefazodone, letermovir, Schisandra sphenanthera extracts May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation). A rapid, sharp rise in tacrolimus levels may occur early, despite an immediate reduction of tacrolimus dose [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.10 , 5.11 )] . Reduce tacrolimus extended-release capsules dose (for voriconazole and posaconazole, give one-third of the original dose) and adjust dose based on tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Early and frequent monitoring of tacrolimus whole blood trough levels should start within 1-3 days and continue monitoring as necessary [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] . Mild or Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors: Clotrimazole, antibiotics (e.g., verapamil, diltiazem, nifedipine, nicardipine), amiodarone, danazol, ethinyl estradiol, cimetidine, lansoprazole and omeprazole May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.10 , 5.11 )] . Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and reduce tacrolimus extended-release capsules dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Other drugs, such as: Magnesium and aluminum hydroxide antacids Metoclopramide May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 , 5.10 , 5.11 )] . Mild or Moderate CYP3A Inducers Methylprednisolone, prednisone May decrease tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations. Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and adjust tacrolimus extended-release capsules dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 , 2.4 )] . Caspofungin May decrease tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations. Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and adjust tacrolimus extended-release capsules dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration (2.3 , 2.4) ] . Direct Acting Antiviral (DAA) Therapy The pharmacokinetics of tacrolimus may be impacted by changes in liver function during DAA therapy, related to clearance of HCV virus. Close monitoring and potential dose adjustment of tacrolimus extended-release capsules is warranted to ensure continued efficacy and safety [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 , 2.4 )] . 7.3 Cannabidiol The blood levels of tacrolimus may increase upon concomitant use with cannabidiol. When cannabidiol and tacrolimus extended-release capsules are co-administered, closely monitor for an increase in tacrolimus blood levels and for adverse reactions suggestive of tacrolimus toxicity. A dose reduction of tacrolimus extended-release capsules should be considered as needed when tacrolimus extended-release capsules is co-administered with cannabidiol [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.15) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Mycophenolic Acid Products: Can increase MPA exposure after crossover from cyclosporine to tacrolimus; monitor for MPA-related adverse reactions and adjust MMF or MPA dose as needed. ( 7.1 ) Nelfinavir and Grapefruit Juice: Increased tacrolimus concentrations via CYP3A inhibition; avoid concomitant use. ( 7.2 ) CYP3A Inhibitors: Increased tacrolimus concentrations; monitor concentrations and adjust tacrolimus dose as needed. ( 5.11 , 7.2 ) CYP3A4 Inducers: Decreased tacrolimus concentrations; monitor concentrations and adjust tacrolimus dose as needed. ( 5.11 , 7.2 ) Therapeutic drug monitoring and dose reduction for tacrolimus should be considered when tacrolimus is co-administered with cannabidiol (5.17, 7.3). 7.1 Mycophenolic Acid When tacrolimus is prescribed with a given dose of a mycophenolic acid (MPA) product, exposure to MPA is higher with tacrolimus co-administration than with cyclosporine co-administration with MPA, because cyclosporine interrupts the enterohepatic recirculation of MPA while tacrolimus does not. 7.2 Effects of Other Drugs on Tacrolimus Table 15 displays the effects of other drugs on Tacrolimus. Table 15: Effects of Other Drugs/Substances on Tacrolimus Tacrolimus dosage adjustment recommendation based on observed effect of coadministered drug on tacrolimus exposures [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , literature reports of altered tacrolimus exposures, or the other drug’s known CYP3A inhibitor/inducer status. May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 , 5.11 , 5.12)] . : Antimycobacterials (e.g., rifampin, rifabutin), anticonvulsants (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine and phenobarbital), St John’s Wort May decrease tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of rejection [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ]. Increase tacrolimus dose and monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3 ) ] Strong CYP3A Inhibitors : Protease inhibitors (e.g, nelfinavir, telaprevir, boceprevir, ritonavir), azole antifungals (e.g., voriconazole, posaconazole, itraconazole, ketoconazole), antibiotics (e.g., clarithromycin, troleandomycin, chloramphenicol), nefazodone,letermovir, Schisandra sphenanthera extracts May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation).A rapid, sharp rise in tacrolimus levels may occur early, despite an immediate reduction of tacrolimus dose [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 , 5.11 , 5.12 )] Reduce tacrolimus dose (for voriconazole and posaconazole, give one-third of the original dose) and adjust dose based on tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 ) and Clinical Phamacology ( 12.3 )]. Early and frequent monitoring of tacrolimus whole blood trough levels should start within 1-3 days and continue monitoring as necessary [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ]. Mild or Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors: Clotrimazole, antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, fluconazole), calcium channel blockers (e.g., verapamil, diltiazem, nifedipine, nicardipine), amiodarone, danazol, ethinyl estradiol, cimetidine, lansoprazole and omeprazole May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 , 5.11 , 5.12 )] Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and reduce tacrolimus dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Other drugs, such as: Magnesium and aluminum hydroxide antacids Metoclopramide May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see Warning and Precautions ( 5.6 , 5.11 , 5.12 )]. Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and reduce tacrolimus dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and adjust tacrolimus dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6)] . Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and adjust tacrolimus dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6)]. Close monitoring and potential dose adjustment of tacrolimus capsules is warranted to ensure continued efficacy and safety [see Dosage and Administration (2.2 , 2.6 )]. When cannabidiol and tacrolimus capsule are co-administered, closely monitor for an increase in tacrolimus blood levels and for adverse reactions suggestive of tacrolimus toxicity. A dose reduction of tacrolimus should be considered as needed when tacrolimus is co-administered with cannabidiol [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.6 )and Warnings and Precautions (5.17) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Mycophenolic Acid Products: Can increase MPA exposure after crossover from cyclosporine to tacrolimus; monitor for MPA-related adverse reactions and adjust MMF or MPA dose as needed. ( 7.1 ) • Nelfinavir and Grapefruit Juice: Increased tacrolimus concentrations via CYP3A inhibition; avoid concomitant use. ( 7.2 ) • CYP3A Inhibitors: Increased tacrolimus concentrations; monitor concentrations and adjust tacrolimus dose as needed. ( 5.11 , 7.2 ) • CYP3A4 Inducers: Decreased tacrolimus concentrations; monitor concentrations and adjust tacrolimus dose as needed. ( 5.11 , 7.2 ) • Therapeutic drug monitoring and dose reduction for tacrolimus should be considered when tacrolimus is co-administered with cannabidiol. ( 5.17 , 7.3 ) 7.1 Mycophenolic Acid When tacrolimus is prescribed with a given dose of a mycophenolic acid (MPA) product, exposure to MPA is higher with tacrolimus co-administration than with cyclosporine co-administration with MPA, because cyclosporine interrupts the enterohepatic recirculation of MPA while tacrolimus does not. 7.2 Effects of Other Drugs on Tacrolimus Table 15 displays the effects of other drugs on tacrolimus Table 15: Effects of Other Drugs/Substances on Tacrolimus * Drug/Substance Class or Name Drug Interaction Effect Recommendations Grapefruit or grapefruit juice † May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 , 5.11 , 5.12 )] . Strong CYP3A Inducers ‡ : Antimycobacterials (e.g., rifampin, rifabutin), anticonvulsants (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine and phenobarbital), St John’s Wort May decrease tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of rejection [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )]. Increase tacrolimus dose and monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Strong CYP3A Inhibitors ‡ : Protease inhibitors (e.g., nelfinavir, telaprevir, boceprevir, ritonavir), azole antifungals (e.g., voriconazole, posaconazole, itraconazole, ketoconazole), antibiotics (e.g., clarithromycin, troleandomycin, chloramphenicol), nefazodone, letermovir, Schisandra sphenanthera extracts May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) A rapid, sharp rise in tacrolimus levels may occur early, despite an immediate reduction of tacrolimus dose [see Warnings and Precautions( 5.6 , 5.11, 5.12 )] . Reduce tacrolimus dose (for voriconazole and posaconazole, give one-third of the original dose) and adjust dose based on tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Early and frequent monitoring of tacrolimus whole blood trough levels should start within 1 to 3 days and continue monitoring as necessary [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )]. Mild or Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors: Clotrimazole, antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, fluconazole), calcium channel blockers (e.g., verapamil, diltiazem, nifedipine, nicardipine), amiodarone, danazol, ethinyl estradiol, cimetidine, lansoprazole and omeprazole May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 , 5.11 , 5.12 )]. Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and reduce tacrolimus dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Other drugs, such as: Magnesium and aluminum hydroxide antacids Metoclopramide May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 , 5.11 , 5.12 )]. Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and reduce tacrolimus dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and adjust tacrolimus dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 )]. Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and adjust tacrolimus capsules dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 )]. * Tacrolimus dosage adjustment recommendation based on observed effect of coadministered drug on tacrolimus exposures [see Clinical Pharmacology( 12.3 )], literature reports of altered tacrolimus exposures, or the other drug’s known CYP3A inhibitor/inducer status. † High dose or double strength grapefruit juice is a strong CYP3A inhibitor; low dose or single strength grapefruit juice is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. ‡ Strong CYP3A inhibitor/inducer, based on reported effect on exposures to tacrolimus along with supporting in vitro CYP3A inhibitor/inducer data, or based on drug-drug interaction studies with midazolam (sensitive CYP3A probe substrate). Close monitoring and potential dose adjustment of tacrolimus is warranted to ensure continued efficacy and safety [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 )]. When cannabidiol and tacrolimus are co-administered, closely monitor for an increase in tacrolimus blood levels and for adverse reactions suggestive of tacrolimus toxicity. A dose reduction of tacrolimus should be considered as needed when ta crolimus is co-administered with cannabidiol [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 )and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.17 )]. * Tacrolimus dosage adjustment recommendation based on observed effect of co-administered drug on tacrolimus exposures [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)], literature reports of altered tacrolimus exposures, or the other drug’s known CYP3A inhibitor/inducer status. Table 15. Effects of Other Drugs/Substances on Tacrolimus* Drug/Substance Class or Name Drug Interaction Effect Recommendations Grapefruit or grapefruit juice† May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6, 5.11, 5.12)]. Strong CYP3A Inducers:Antimycobacterials (e.g., rifampin, rifabutin), anticonvulsants (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine and phenobarbital), St John’s wort May decrease tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of rejection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]. Increase tacrolimus dose and monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Strong CYP3A Inhibitor: Protease inhibitors (e.g., nelfinavir, telaprevir, boceprevir, ritonavir), azole antifungals (e.g., voriconazole, posaconazole, itraconazole, ketoconazole), antibiotics (e.g., clarithromycin, troleandomycin, chloramphenicol), nefazodone, letermovir, Schisandra sphenanthera extracts May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation). A rapid, sharp rise in tacrolimus levels may occur early, despite an immediate reduction of tacrolimus dose [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6, 5.11, 5.12)]. Reduce tacrolimus dose (for voriconazole and posaconazole, give one-third of the original dose) and adjust dose based on tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Early and frequent monitoring of tacrolimus whole blood trough levels should start within 1-3 days and continue monitoring as necessary [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]. Mild or Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors: Clotrimazole, antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, fluconazole), calcium channel blockers (e.g., verapamil, diltiazem, nifedipine, nicardipine), amiodarone, danazol, ethinyl estradiol, cimetidine, lansoprazole and omeprazole May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6, 5.11, 5.12)]. Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and reduce tacrolimus dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Other drugs, such as: Magnesium and aluminum hydroxide antacids Metoclopramide May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6, 5.11, 5.12)]. Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and adjust tacrolimus dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.6)]. Close monitoring and potential dose adjustment of tacrolimus is warranted to ensure continued efficacy and safety [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.6)]. A dose reduction of tacrolimus should be considered as needed when tacrolimus is co-administered with cannabidiol [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.6) and Warnings and Precautions (5.17)]. Drug Interactions Formal topical drug interaction studies with tacrolimus ointment have not been conducted. Based on its extent of absorption, interactions of tacrolimus ointment with systemically administered drugs are unlikely to occur but cannot be ruled out (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). The concomitant administration of known CYP3A4 inhibitors in patients with widespread and/or erythrodermic disease should be done with caution. Some examples of such drugs are erythromycin, itraconazole, ketoconazole, fluconazole, calcium channel blockers and cimetidine. ( 5.11 , 7.2 ) 7.1 Mycophenolic Acid When tacrolimus is prescribed with a given dose of a mycophenolic acid (MPA) product, exposure to MPA is higher with tacrolimus co-administration than with cyclosporine co-administration with MPA, because cyclosporine interrupts the enterohepatic recirculation of MPA while tacrolimus does not. Effects of Other Drugs/Substances on Tacrolimus Tacrolimus dosage adjustment recommendation based on observed effect of co-administered drug on tacrolimus exposures [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , literature reports of altered tacrolimus exposures, or the other drug’s known CYP3A inhibitor/inducer status. May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 , 5.11 , 5.12 )] . Strong CYP3A Inducers:Antimycobacterials (e.g., rifampin, rifabutin), anticonvulsants (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine and phenobarbital), St John’s wort May decrease tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of rejection [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )] . Increase tacrolimus dose and monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . A rapid, sharp rise in tacrolimus levels may occur early, despite an immediate reduction of tacrolimus dose [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 , 5.11 , 5.12 )] . Reduce tacrolimus dose (for voriconazole and posaconazole, give one-third of the original dose) and adjust dose based on tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Early and frequent monitoring of tacrolimus whole blood trough levels should start within 1-3 days and continue monitoring as necessary [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )]. Mild or Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors: Clotrimazole, antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, fluconazole), calcium channel blockers (e.g., verapamil, diltiazem, nifedipine, nicardipine), amiodarone, danazol, ethinyl estradiol, cimetidine, lansoprazole and omeprazole May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 , 5.11 , 5.12 )] . Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and reduce tacrolimus dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Other drugs, such as: Magnesium and aluminum hydroxide antacids Metoclopramide May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 , 5.11 , 5.12 )] . Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and adjust tacrolimus dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 )] . Close monitoring and potential dose adjustment of tacrolimus is warranted to ensure continued efficacy and safety [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 )] . (7.1) • Nelfinavir and Grapefruit Juice: Increased tacrolimus concentrations via CYP3A inhibition; avoid concomitant use. (7.2) • CYP3A Inhibitors: Increased tacrolimus concentrations; monitor concentrations and adjust tacrolimus dose as needed. (5.11, 7.2) • CYP3A4 Inducers: Decreased tacrolimus concentrations; monitor concentrations and adjust tacrolimus dose as needed. (5.11, 7.2) • Therapeutic drug monitoring and dose reduction for tacrolimus should be considered when tacrolimus is co-administered with cannabidiol (5.17, 7.3). 7.2 Effects of Other Drugs on Tacrolimus Table 15 displays the effects of other drugs on Tacrolimus Table 15. Effects of Other Drugs/Substances on Tacrolimus 1 1. Tacrolimus dosage adjustment recommendation based on observed effect of co-administered drug on tacrolimus exposures [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)], literature reports of altered tacrolimus exposures, or the other drug's known CYP3A inhibitor/inducer status. 2. High dose or double strength grapefruit juice is a strong CYP3A inhibitor; low dose or single strength grapefruit juice is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. 3. Strong CYP3A inhibitor/inducer, based on reported effect on exposures to tacrolimus along with supporting in vitro CYP3A inhibitor/inducer data, or based on drug-drug interaction studies with midazolam (sensitive CYP3A probe substrate). Drug/Substance Class or Name Drug Interaction Effect Recommendations Grapefruit or grapefruit juice 2 May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6, 5.11, 5.12)]. Strong CYP3A Inducers 3 : Antimycobacterials (e.g., rifampin, rifabutin), anticonvulsants (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine and phenobarbital), St John's wort May decrease tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of rejection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] . Increase tacrolimus dose and monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Strong CYP3A Inhibitors 3 : Protease inhibitors (e.g, nelfinavir, telaprevir, boceprevir, ritonavir), azole antifungals (e.g., voriconazole, posaconazole, itraconazole, ketoconazole), antibiotics (e.g., clarithromycin, troleandomycin, chloramphenicol), nefazodone, letermovir, Schisandra sphenanthera extracts May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation). Reduce tacrolimus dose (for voriconazole and posaconazole, give one-third of the original dose) and adjust dose based on tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and reduce tacrolimus dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and adjust tacrolimus dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.6)] . Drug Interaction Studies Frequent monitoring of whole blood concentrations and appropriate dosage adjustments of tacrolimus are recommended when concomitant use of the following drugs with tacrolimus is initiated or discontinued [see Drug Interactions (7)] . • Telaprevir: In a single-dose study in 9 healthy volunteers, co-administration of tacrolimus (0.5 mg single dose) with telaprevir (750 mg three times daily for 13 days) increased the tacrolimus dose-normalized C max by 9.3-fold and AUC by 70-fold compared to tacrolimus alone [see Drug Interactions (7.2)] . • Boceprevir: In a single-dose study in 12 subjects, co-administration of tacrolimus (0.5 mg single dose) with boceprevir (800 mg three times daily for 11 days) increased tacrolimus C max by 9.9-fold and AUC by 17-fold compared to tacrolimus alone [see Drug Interactions (7.2)] . • Nelfinavir: Based on a clinical study of 5 liver transplant recipients, co-administration of tacrolimus with nelfinavir increased blood concentrations of tacrolimus significantly and, as a result, a reduction in the tacrolimus dose by an average of 16-fold was needed to maintain mean trough tacrolimus blood concentrations of 9.7 ng/mL. It is recommended to avoid concomitant use of tacrolimus and nelfinavir unless the benefits outweigh the risks [see Drug Interactions (7.2)] . • Rifampin: In a study of 6 normal volunteers, a significant decrease in tacrolimus oral bioavailability (14 ± 6% vs. 7 ± 3%) was observed with concomitant rifampin administration (600 mg). In addition, there was a significant increase in tacrolimus clearance (0.036 ± 0.008 L/hr/kg vs. 0.053 ± 0.010 L/hr/kg) with concomitant rifampin administration [see Drug Interactions (7.2)] . • Magnesium and Aluminum-hydroxide: In a single-dose crossover study in healthy volunteers, co-administration of tacrolimus and magnesium-aluminum-hydroxide resulted in a 21% increase in the mean tacrolimus AUC and a 10% decrease in the mean tacrolimus C max relative to tacrolimus administration alone [see Drug Interactions (7.2)] . • Ketoconazole: In a study of 6 normal volunteers, a significant increase in tacrolimus oral bioavailability (14 ± 5% vs. 30 ± 8%) was observed with concomitant ketoconazole administration (200 mg). The apparent oral clearance of tacrolimus during ketoconazole administration was significantly decreased compared to tacrolimus alone (0.430 ± 0.129 L/hr/kg vs. 0.148 ± 0.043 L/hr/kg). Overall, IV clearance of tacrolimus was not significantly changed by ketoconazole co-administration, although it was highly variable between patients [see Drug Interactions (7.2)] . • Voriconazole (see complete prescribing information for VFEND) : Repeat oral dose administration of voriconazole (400 mg every 12 hours for one day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for 6 days) increased tacrolimus (0.1 mg/kg single dose) C max and AUCτ in healthy subjects by an average of 2-fold (90% CI: 1.9, 2.5) and 3-fold (90% CI: 2.7, 3.8), respectively [see Drug Interactions (7.2)] . • Posaconazole (see complete prescribing information for Noxafil) : Repeat oral administration of posaconazole (400 mg twice daily for 7 days) increased tacrolimus (0.05 mg/kg single dose) C max and AUC in healthy subjects by an average of 2-fold (90% CI: 2.01, 2.42) and 4.5-fold (90% CI 4.03, 5.19), respectively [ s ee Drug Interactions (7.2)] . • Caspofungin (see complete prescribing information for CANCIDAS) : Caspofungin reduced the blood AUC 0-12 of tacrolimus by approximately 20%, peak blood concentration (C max ) by 16%, and 12-hour blood concentration (C 12hr ) by 26% in healthy adult subjects when tacrolimus (2 doses of 0.1 mg/kg 12 hours apart) was administered on the 10th day of CANCIDAS 70 mg daily, as compared to results from a control period in which tacrolimus was administered alone [see Drug Interactions (7.2)] . The mechanism of interaction has not been confirmed. Additional pediatric use information is approved for Astellas Pharma US, Inc.'s Prograf (tacrolimus) products. However, due to Astellas Pharma US, Inc.'s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. ( 5.11 , 7.2 ) Therapeutic drug monitoring and dose reduction for tacrolimus shouldbe considered when tacrolimus is co-administered with cannabidiol (5.17, 7.3). Strong CYP3A Inhibitors ‡ : Protease inhibitors (e.g., nelfinavir, telaprevir, boceprevir, ritonavir), azole antifungals (e.g., voriconazole, posaconazole, itraconazole, ketoconazole), antibiotics (e.g., clarithromycin, troleandomycin, chloramphenicol), nefazodone, letermovir, Schisandra sphenanthera extracts May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) A rapid, sharp rise in tacrolimus levels may occur early, despite an immediate reduction of tacrolimus dose [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 , 5.11, 5.12 )] . * Tacrolimus dosage adjustment recommendation based on observed effect of coadministered drug on tacrolimus exposures [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )], literature reports of altered tacrolimus exposures, or the other drug’s known CYP3A inhibitor/inducer status. A dose reduction of tacrolimus should be considered as needed when tacrolimus is co-administered with cannabidiol [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 )and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.17 )]. ( 5.11 , 7.2 ) • Therapeutic drug monitoring and dose reduction for tacrolimus should be considered when tacrolimus is co-administered with cannabidiol ( 5.17 , 7.3 ). A dose reduction of tacrolimus should be considered as needed when tacrolimus is co-administered with cannabidiol [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.17 )]. ( 5.11 , 7.2 ) Therapeutic drug monitoring and dose reduction for tacrolimus should be considered when tacrolimus is co-administered with cannabidiol ( 5.17 , 7.3 ). Table 15: Effects of Other Drugs/Substances on Tacrolimus Tacrolimus dosage adjustment recommendation based on observed effect of co-administered drug on tacrolimus exposures [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] , literature reports of altered tacrolimus exposures, or the other drug’s known CYP3A inhibitor/inducer status. May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6 , 5.11 , 5.12) ] . : Antimycobacterials (e.g., rifampin, rifabutin), anticonvulsants (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine and phenobarbital), St John’s wort May decrease tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of rejection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] . Increase tacrolimus dose and monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations [see Dosage and Administration (2.2 , 2.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . A rapid, sharp rise in tacrolimus levels may occur early, despite an immediate reduction of tacrolimus dose [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6 , 5.11 , 5.12) ] . Reduce tacrolimus dose (for voriconazole and posaconazole, give one-third of the original dose) and adjust dose based on tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations [see Dosage and Administration (2.2 , 2.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Early and frequent monitoring of tacrolimus whole blood trough levels should start within 1-3 days and continue monitoring as necessary [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] . Mild or Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors: Clotrimazole, antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, fluconazole), calcium channel blockers (e.g., verapamil, diltiazem, nifedipine, nicardipine), amiodarone, danazol, ethinyl estradiol, cimetidine, lansoprazole and omeprazole May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6 , 5.11 , 5.12) ] . Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and reduce tacrolimus dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration (2.2 , 2.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Other drugs, such as: Magnesium and aluminum hydroxide antacids Metoclopramide May increase tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and increase the risk of serious adverse reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6 , 5.11 , 5.12) ] . Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations and adjust tacrolimus dose if needed [see Dosage and Administration (2.2 , 2.6) ] . Close monitoring and potential dose adjustment of tacrolimus capsules is warranted to ensure continued efficacy and safety [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.6 )] . A dose reduction of tacrolimus should be considered as needed when tacrolimus is co-administered with cannabidiol [see Dosage and Administration (2.2 , 2.6) and Warnings and Precautions (5.17) ] .

=== ZINC OXIDE AND TITANIUM DIOXIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Sunscreen Purpose: Sunscreen PURPOSE : SUNSCREEN
Indications: Use helps prevent sunburn Uses helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses • helps prevent sunburn USES: HELPS PREVENT SUNBURN. IF USED AS DIRECTED WITH OTHER SUN PROTECTION MEASURES (SEE DIRECTIONS), DECREASES THE RISK OF SKIN CANCER AND EARLY SKIN AGING CAUSED BY THE SUN. IF USED AS DIRECTED WITH OTHER SUN PROTECTION MEASURES (SEE DIRECTIONS), DECREASES THE RISK OF SKIN CANCER AND EARLY SKIN AGING CAUSED BY THE SUN
Dosage: Directions For sunscreen use: apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every two hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures. Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m.–2 p.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats and sunglasses children under 6 months of age: ask a doctor Directions apply liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply: after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating immediately after towel drying at least every 2 hours do not spray directly into face. Spray on hands then apply to face. children under 6 months of age: ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m.-2 p.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses Directions • apply generously 15 minutes before sun exposure • children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor • reapply at least every 2 hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: • limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m.-2 p.m. • wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats and sunglasses DIRECTIONS FOR SUNSCREEN USE: APPLY GENEROUSLY 15 MINUTES BEFORE SUN EXPOSURE. APPLY TO ALL SKIN EXPOSED BY THE SUN. CHILDREN UNDER 6 MONTHS OF AGE: ASK A DOCTOR. SUN PROTECTION MEASURES: SPENDING TIME IN THE SUN INCREASES YOUR RISK OF SKIN CANCER AND EARLY SKIN AGING. TO DECREASE THIS RISK, REGULARLY USE A SUNSCREEN WITH A BROAD SPECTRUM SPF VALUE OF 15 OR HIGHER AND OTHER SUN PROTECTION MEASURES INCLUDING: LIMIT TIME IN SUN, ESPECIALLY FROM 10 A.M. - 2 P.M. WEAR LONG-SLEEVED SHIRTS, PANTS, HATS AND SUNGLASSES. REAPPLY AT LEAST EVERY 2 HOURS. USE A WATER RESISTANT SUNSCREEN IF SWIMMING OR SWEATING IMMEDIATELY AFTER TOWEL DRYING AT LEAST EVERY 2 HOURS.
Warnings: Warnings For External use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If product is swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings • For external use only WARNINGS: FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY WARNINGS FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY

=== LEVONORGESTREL AND ETHINYL ESTRADIOL ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Iclevia TM (levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets) is indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. Iclevia is a combination of levonorgestrel, a progestin, and ethinyl estradiol, an estrogen, indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. ( 1 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE DOLISHALE is indicated for the prevention of pregnancy in women who elect to use oral contraceptives as a method of contraception. Oral contraceptives are highly effective for pregnancy prevention. Table 2 lists the typical unintended pregnancy rates for users of combination oral contraceptives and other methods of contraception. The efficacy of these contraceptive methods, except sterilization, the IUD, and implants, depend upon the reliability with which they are used. Correct and consistent use of methods can result in lower failure rates. Table 2: Percentage of Women Experiencing an Unintended Pregnancy During The First Year of Typical Use and The First Year of Perfect Use of Contraception and The Percentage Continuing Use at The End of the First Year. United States. % of Women Experiencing an Unintended Pregnancy within the First Year of Use % of Women Continuing Use at One Year 3 Method (1) Typical Use 1 (2) Perfect Use 2 (3) (4) Chance 4 85 85 Spermicides 5 26 6 40 Periodic abstinence 25 63 Calendar 9 Ovulation Method 3 Sympto-Thermal 6 2 Post-Ovulation 1 Cap 7 Parous Women 40 26 42 Nulliparous Women 20 9 56 Sponge Parous Women 40 20 42 Nulliparous Women 20 9 56 Diaphragm 7 20 6 56 Withdrawal 19 4 Condom 8 Female (Reality™) 21 5 56 Male 14 3 61 Pill 5 71 Progestin only 0.5 Combined 0.1 IUD Progesterone T 2.0 1.5 81 Copper T380A 0.8 0.6 78 LNg 20 0.1 0.1 81 Depo-Provera ® 0.3 0.3 70 Levonorgestrel Implants (Norplant ® ) 0.05 0.05 88 Female Sterilization 0.5 0.5 100 Male Sterilization 0.15 0.10 100 Emergency Contraceptive Pills: The FDA has concluded that certain combined oral contraceptives containing ethinyl estradiol and norgestrel or levonorgestrel are safe and effective for use as postcoital emergency contraception. Treatment initiated within 72 hours after unprotected intercourse reduces the risk of pregnancy by at least 75%. 9 Lactation Amenorrhea Method: LAM is a highly effective, temporary method of contraception. 10 Source: Trussell J. Contraceptive efficacy. In: Hatcher RA, Trussell J, Stewart F, Cates W, Stewart GK, Kowel D, Guest F. Contraceptive Technology: Seventeenth Revised Edition. New York NY: Irvington Publishers; 1998. 1. Among typical couples who initiate use of a method (not necessarily for the first time), the percentage who experience an accidental pregnancy during the first year if they do not stop use for any other reason. 2. Among couples who initiate use of a method (not necessarily for the first time) and who use it perfectly (both consistently and correctly), the percentage who experience an accidental pregnancy during the first year if they do not stop use for any other reason. 3. Among couples attempting to avoid pregnancy, the percentage who continue to use a method for one year. 4. The percents becoming pregnant in columns (2) and (3) are based on data from populations where contraception is not used and from women who cease using contraception in order to become pregnant. Among such populations, about 89% become pregnant within one year. This estimate was lowered slightly (to 85%) to represent the percent who would become pregnant within one year among women now relying on reversible methods of contraception if they abandoned contraception altogether. 5. Foams, creams, gels, vaginal suppositories, and vaginal film. 6. Cervical mucus (ovulation) method supplemented by calendar in the pre-ovulatory and basal body temperature in the post-ovulatory phases. 7. With spermicidal cream or jelly. 8. Without spermicides. 9. The treatment schedule is one dose within 72 hours after unprotected intercourse, and a second dose 12 hours after the first dose. The FDA has declared the following dosage regimens of oral contraceptives to be safe and effective for emergency contraception: for tablets containing 50 mcg of ethinyl estradiol and 500 mcg of norgestrel 1 dose is 2 tablets; for tablets containing 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol and 100 mcg of levonorgestrel 1 dose is 5 tablets; for tablets containing 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol and 150 mcg of levonorgestrel 1 dose is 4 tablets. 10. However, to maintain effective protection against pregnancy, another method of contraception must be used as soon as menstruation resumes, the frequency or duration of breastfeeds is reduced, bottle feeds are introduced, or the baby reaches 6 months of age. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets, USP and ferrous bisglycinate tablets are indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets, USP and ferrous bisglycinate tablets are progestin/estrogen COC indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ashlyna is indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. Ashlyna is a combination of levonorgestrel, a progestin, and ethinyl estradiol, an estrogen, indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Introvale is indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. Introvale is a combination of levonorgestrel, a progestin, and ethinyl estradiol, an estrogen, indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets, 0.15 mg/30 mcg are indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE LoJaimiess is a combination of levonorgestrel, a progestin, and ethinyl estradiol, an estrogen, indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. ( 1 ) LoJaimiess is indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ayuna is indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. INDICATIONS AND USAGE LEVORA 0.15/30-28 is indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. Indications and usage Oral contraceptives are indicated for the prevention of pregnancy in women who elect to use this product as a method of contraception. Oral contraceptives are highly effective. Table I lists the typical accidental pregnancy rates for users of combination oral contraceptives and other methods of contraception. The efficacy of these contraceptive methods, except sterilization and the IUD, depends upon the reliability with which they are used. TABLE I: PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN EXPERIENCING AN UNINTENDED PREGNANCY DURING THE FIRST YEAR OF USE OF A CONTRACEPTIVE METHOD Table NA - not available Method Perfect use Typical use Levonorgestrel implants 0.05 0.05 Male sterilization 0.1 0.15 Female sterilization 0.5 0.5 Depo-Provera ® (injectable progestogen) 0.3 0.3 Oral contraceptives 5 Combined 0.1 NA Progestin only 0.5 NA IUD Progesterone 1.5 2.0 Copper T 380A 0.6 0.8 Condom (male) without spermicide 3 14 (female) without spermicide 5 21 Cervical cap Nulliparous women 9 20 Parous women 26 40 Vaginal sponge Nulliparous women 9 20 Parous women 20 40 Diaphragm with spermicidal cream or jelly 6 20 Spermicides alone (foam, creams, jellies, and vaginal suppositories) 6 26 Periodic abstinence (all methods) 1 to 9 * 25 Withdrawal 4 19 No contraception (planned pregnancy) 85 85
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day for 91 days. (2.1) Take tablets in the order directed on the Extended-Cycle Wallet. (2.2) 2.1 How to Start and Take Iclevia Iclevia is dispensed in an Extended-Cycle Wallet [see How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16) ]. Iclevia should be started on a Sunday (see Table 1). For the first cycle of a Sunday Start regimen, an additional method of contraception should be used until after the first 7 consecutive days of administration. Table 1: Instructions for Administration of Iclevia Starting Iclevia in females with no current use of hormonal contraception (Sunday Start) Important: Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of this product. Tablet Color: Iclevia active tablets are white (Day 1 to Day 84). Iclevia inactive tablets are green (Day 85 to Day 91). Sunday Start: For each 91-day course, take in the following order: Take the first white tablet (0.15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0.03 mg ethinyl estradiol) on the first Sunday after the onset of menstruation. If menstruation begins on a Sunday, take the tablet on that day. Due to the potential risk of becoming pregnant, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) for the first 7 days of treatment. Take subsequent white tablets once daily at the same time each day for a total of 84 days. Take one green tablet (inert) daily for the following 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken. A scheduled period should occur during the 7 days that the green tablets are taken. Begin the next and all subsequent 91-day courses of Iclevia without interruption on the same day of the week (Sunday) on which the patient began her first dose. Follow the same schedule as the initial 91-day course: a white tablet once a day for 84 days, and a green tablet once a day for 7 days. If the patient does not immediately start her next pill pack, instruct her to protect herself from pregnancy by using a non-hormonal back-up method of contraception until she has taken a white tablet daily for 7 consecutive days. Switching from another contraceptive method to Iclevia Start Iclevia: Another oral contraceptive On the day when the new pack of the previous COC would have been started Transdermal patch On the day when the next application would have been scheduled. Vaginal ring On the day when the next insertion would have been scheduled. Injection On the day when the next injection would have been scheduled. Intrauterine contraceptive (IUD) On the day of removal. If the IUD is not removed on first day of the patient’s menstrual cycle, additional non- hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) is needed for the first seven days of the first 91-day course. Implant On the day of removal. Starting Iclevia after Abortion or Miscarriage First-trimester After a first-trimester abortion or miscarriage, Iclevia may be started immediately. An additional method of contraception is not needed if Iclevia is started immediately. If Iclevia is not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy, the patient should use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) for the first seven days of her first 91-day course of Iclevia. Second-trimester Do not start Iclevia until 4 weeks after a second-trimester abortion or miscarriage, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start Iclevia following the instructions in Table 1 for Sunday start. Use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient’s first 91-day course of Iclevia [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Starting Iclevia after Childbirth Do not start Iclevia until 4 weeks after delivery, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start contraceptive therapy with Iclevia following the instructions in Table 1 for women not currently using hormonal contraception. Iclevia is not recommended for use in lactating women [see Use in Specific Populations (8.2) ] . If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum, consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of Iclevia [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.1 and 8.2) ]. 2.2 Dosing Iclevia Instruct patients to take one tablet by mouth at the same time every day. The dosing of Iclevia is one white pill containing levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol daily for 84 consecutive days, followed by one green pill (inactive pills without hormone) for 7 days. To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, Iclevia must be taken exactly as directed, in the order directed on the Wallet, and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours. Start taking the first white pill from a new Wallet the very next day after taking the last green inactive pill in the Wallet. The failure rate may increase when pills are missed or taken incorrectly. 2.3 Missed Doses Table 2: Instructions for Missed Iclevia Tablets If one active tablet (white) is missed in Days 1 through 84 Take the tablet as soon as possible. Take the next tablet at the regular time and continue taking one tablet a day until the 91-day course is finished. If two consecutive active tablets (white) are missed in Days 1 through 84 Take 2 tablets on the day remembered and 2 tablets the next day. Then continue taking one tablet a day until the 91-day course is finished. Additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) should be used as back-up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing tablets. If three or more consecutive active tablets (white) are missed in Days 1 through 84 Do not take the missed tablets. Continue taking one tablet a day until the 91-day course is finished. Additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) must be used as back-up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing tablets. If any of the seven green (inactive) tablets are missed Throw away the missed tablets. Continue taking the remaining tablets until the pack is finished. A backup birth control method is not needed. 2.4 Advice in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances In case of severe vomiting or diarrhea, absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken. If vomiting or diarrhea occurs within 3 to 4 hours after taking a white tablet, handle this as a missed tablet. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, DOLISHALE (levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets) must be taken exactly as directed and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours. The possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of medication should be considered. Women who do not wish to become pregnant after discontinuation should be advised to immediately use another method of birth control. The dosage of DOLISHALE is one green tablet daily without any tablet-free interval. It is recommended that DOLISHALE tablets be taken at the same time each day. Initiation of Therapy Instructions for beginning DOLISHALE are provided in Table 4 below. Table 4 Current contraceptive therapy DOLISHALE start day Nonhormonal back-up method of birth control needed when correctly starting DOLISHALE? None Day 1 of patient's menstrual cycle (during the first 24 hours of her period) No 21-day COC regimen OR 28-day COC regimen Day 1 of patient's withdrawal bleed, at the latest 7 days after her last active tablet. No Progestin-only pill Day after taking a progestin-only pill Yes, for the first 7 days of DOLISHALE tablet taking Implant Day of implant removal Yes, for the first 7 days of DOLISHALE tablet taking Injection Day the next injection is due Yes, for the first 7 days of DOLISHALE tablet taking If spotting or unscheduled bleeding occurs, the patient is instructed to continue on the same regimen. This type of bleeding is usually transient and without significance; however, if the bleeding is persistent or prolonged, the patient is advised to consult her health care professional. The possibility of ovulation increases with each successive day that scheduled green tablets are missed. If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed schedule (missed one or more tablets or started taking them on a day later than she should have), the probability of pregnancy should be considered. Hormonal contraception must be discontinued if pregnancy is confirmed. The risk of pregnancy increases with each tablet missed. For additional patient instructions regarding missed tablets, see the WHAT TO DO IF YOU MISS PILLS section in the DETAILED PATIENT LABELING below. DOLISHALE may be initiated no earlier than day 28 postpartum in the nonlactating mother or after a second-trimester abortion due to the increased risk for thromboembolism (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS concerning thromboembolic disease). The patient should be advised to use a nonhormonal back-up method for the first 7 days of tablet-taking. However, if intercourse has already occurred, pregnancy should be excluded before the start of combined oral contraceptive use or the patient must wait for her first menstrual period. In the case of first-trimester abortion, if the patient starts DOLISHALE immediately, additional contraceptive measures are not needed. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take one tablet by mouth at the same time every day. ( 2.1 ) Take tablets in the order directed on the blister pack. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 How to Start Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, USP and Ferrous Bisglycinate Tablets Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets, USP and ferrous bisglycinate tablets are dispensed in a blister card [see How Supplied/Storage and Handling ( 16 )] . Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets, USP and ferrous bisglycinate tablets may be started using either a Day 1 start or a Sunday start (see Table 1 ). 2.2 How to Take Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, USP and Ferrous Bisglycinate Tablets Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets, USP and ferrous bisglycinate tablets (orange active tablets and blue placebo tablets) are swallowed whole once a day Table 1: Instructions for Administration of Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, USP and Ferrous Bisglycinate Tablets Complete instructions to facilitate patient counseling on proper tablet usage are located in the FDA-Approved Patient Labeling. Starting COCs in women not currently using hormonal contraception (Day 1 Start or Sunday Start) Important: Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of this product. Tablet Color: Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol active tablets are orange (Day 1 to Day 21). Ferrous bisglycinate placebo tablets are blue (Day 22 to Day 28). Day 1 Start: Take first orange active tablet on the first day of menses. Take subsequent orange active tablets once daily at the same time each day for a total of 21 days. Take one blue placebo tablet daily for 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken. Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack (i.e. on the day after taking the last inactive tablet). Sunday Start: Take first active tablet on the first Sunday after the onset of menses. Due to the potential risk of becoming pregnant, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient’s first cycle pack of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets, USP and ferrous bisglycinate tablets. Take subsequent orange tablets once daily at the same time each day for a total of 21 days. Take one blue placebo tablet daily for the following 7 days and at the same time of day that active tablets were taken. Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack (i.e., on the Sunday after taking the last inactive tablet) and additional non-hormonal contraceptive is not needed. Switching to levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets, USP and ferrous bisglycinate tablets from another hormonal contraceptive Start on the same day that a new pack of the previous hormonal contraceptive would have started. Switching from another contraceptive method to levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets, USP and ferrous bisglycinate tablets Start levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets, USP and ferrous bisglycinate tablets: Transdermal patch On the day when next application would have been scheduled Vaginal ring On the day when next insertion would have been scheduled Injection On the day when next injection would have been scheduled Intrauterine contraceptive On the day of removal If the IUD is not removed on first day of the patient’s menstrual cycle, additional non-hormonal contraceptive (such as condoms or spermicide) is needed for the first seven days of the first cycle pack. Implant On the day of removal Starting Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, USP and Ferrous Bisglycinate Tablets after Abortion or Miscarriage First-trimester After a first-trimester abortion or miscarriage, levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets, USP and ferrous bisglycinate tablets may be started immediately. An additional method of contraception is not needed if levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets, USP and ferrous bisglycinate tablets are started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy. If levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets, USP and ferrous bisglycinate tablets are not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy, the patient should use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) for the first seven days of her first cycle pack of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets, USP and ferrous bisglycinate tablets. Second-trimester Do not start until 4 weeks after a second-trimester abortion or miscarriage, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets, USP and ferrous bisglycinate tablets following the instructions in Table 1 for Day 1 or Sunday start, as desired. If using Sunday start, use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient’s first cycle pack of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets, USP and ferrous bisglycinate tablets. [See Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), and FDA-Approved Patient Labeling .] Starting Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, USP and Ferrous Bisglycinate Tablets after Childbirth Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start contraceptive therapy with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets, USP and ferrous bisglycinate tablets following the instructions in Table 1 for women not currently using hormonal contraception. If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum, consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets, USP and ferrous bisglycinate tablets. [See Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 and 8.2 ), and FDA-Approved Patient Labeling ] . 2.3 Missed Tablets Table 2: Instructions for Missed Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets, USP and Ferrous Bisglycinate Tablets If one orange active tablet is missed in Weeks 1, 2, or 3 Take the tablet as soon as possible. Continue taking one tablet a day until the pack is finished. If two orange active tablets are missed in Week 1 or Week 2 Take the two missed tablets as soon as possible and the next two active tablets the next day. If two orange tablets are missed in Week 3 or three or more orange active tablets are missed in a row in Weeks 1, 2, or 3 Day 1 start: Throw out the rest of pack and start a new pack that same day. Sunday start: Continue taking one tablet a day until Sunday, then throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day. If vomiting or diarrhea occurs within 3 to 4 hours after taking an active tablet, handle this as a missed tablet [see FDA-Approved Patient Labeling ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day for 91 days in the order directed on the blister pack. ( 2 ) 2.1 How to Start and Take Ashlyna Begin Ashlyna on the first Sunday after the onset of menstruation. If menstruation begins on a Sunday, take the first light blue to blue tablet that day. For each 91-day course, take in the following order: 3. Start the first light blue to blue tablet on the first Sunday after onset of menstruation. Then take one light blue to blue tablet daily for 84 consecutive days. Use a non-hormonal back-up method of contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) until a light blue to blue tablet has been taken daily for 7 consecutive days. 4. Then take one yellow tablet for 7 consecutive days. Bleeding should occur during the 7 days that the yellow tablets are taken. Begin the next and all subsequent 91-day cycles without interruption on the same day of the week (Sunday) on which the patient began her first dose of Ashlyna, following the same schedule: 84 days taking a light blue to blue tablet followed by 7 days taking a light yellow to yellow tablet. If the patient does not immediately start her next pill pack, instruct her to protect herself from pregnancy by using a non-hormonal back-up method of contraception until she has taken a light blue to blue tablet daily for 7 consecutive days. Switching to Ashlyna from another oral hormonal contraceptive or from another contraceptive method (transdermal patch, vaginal ring, injection, intrauterine contraceptive, implant) Start on the Sunday after the patient’s next period starts. Use additional non-hormonal contraceptive (such as condoms and spermicide) until the patient has taken a light blue to blue tablet for 7 consecutive days. Starting Ashlyna after Abortion or Miscarriage First-trimester Ashlyna may be started on the Sunday after an abortion or miscarriage. The patient must use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) until the patient has taken a light blue to blue tablet for 7 consecutive days. Start contraceptive therapy with Ashlyna following the instructions for women not currently using hormonal contraception. Use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) until the patient has taken a light blue to blue tablet for 7 consecutive days [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Starting Ashlyna after Childbirth Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum, consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of Ashlyna [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 )]. 2.2 Dosing Ashlyna Take one tablet by mouth at the same time every day. The dosage of Ashlyna is one light blue to blue tablet daily for 84 consecutive days, followed by one yellow tablet daily for 7 days. To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, Ashlyna must be taken exactly as directed, in the order directed, and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours. 2.3 Missed Doses Table 1. Instructions for Missed Ashlyna Tablets If one light blue to blue tablet tablet is missed Take the missed tablet as soon as possible. Take the next tablet at the regular time. A back-up birth control method is not required if the patient has sex. If two light blue to blue tablet in a row are missed Take the two missed tablets as soon as possible, and the next two tablets the next day. Use additional nonhormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) until tablets have been taken for 7 days after missing tablets. If three or more light blue to blue pills in a row are missed Throw away the missed pills. Continue taking one tablet every day as indicated on the pack until the pack is finished. Bleeding may occur during the week following the missed tablets. If any of the seven light yellow to yellow tablets are missed Throw away the missed tablets. 2.4 Advice in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances In case of prolonged vomiting or diarrhea, absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken. ( 2.1 ) Take tablets in the order directed on the Extended-Cycle Blister Pack. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 How to Start and Take Introvale Introvale is dispensed in an Extended-Cycle Blister Pack [ see How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16) ]. Introvale should be started on a Sunday (see Table 1). Table 1: Instructions for Administration of Introvale Starting Introvale in females with no current use of hormonal contraception (Sunday Start) Important: Consider the possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of this product. Tablet Color: Introvale active tablets are white to off-white (Day 1 to Day 84). Introvale inactive tablets are green (Day 85 to Day 91). Sunday Start: For each 91-day course, take in the following order: Take the first white to off-white tablet (0.15 mg of levonorgestrel and 0.03 mg ethinyl estradiol) on the first Sunday after the onset of menstruation. Take subsequent white to off-white tablets once daily at the same time each day for a total of 84 days. Begin the next and all subsequent 91-day courses of Introvale without interruption on the same day of the week (Sunday) on which the patient began her first dose. Follow the same schedule as the initial 91-day course: a white to off-white tablet once a day for 84 days, and a green tablet once a day for 7 days. If the patient does not immediately start her next pill pack, instruct her to protect herself from pregnancy by using a non-hormonal back-up method of contraception until she has taken a white to off-white tablet daily for 7 consecutive days. Switching from another contraceptive method to Introvale Start Introvale: Another oral contraceptive On the day when the new pack of the previous COC would have been started Transdermal patch On the day when the next application would have been scheduled. If the IUD is not removed on first day of the patient’s menstrual cycle, additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) is needed for the first seven days of the first 91-day course. Starting Introvale after Abortion or Miscarriage First-trimester After a first-trimester abortion or miscarriage, Introvale may be started immediately. An additional method of contraception is not needed if Introvale is started immediately. If Introvale is not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy, the patient should use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) for the first seven days of her first 91-day course of Introvale. Second-trimester Do not start Introvale until 4 weeks after a second-trimester abortion or miscarriage, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start Introvale following the instructions in Table 1 for Sunday start. Use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient’s first 91-day course of Introvale [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Starting Introvale after Childbirth Do not start Introvale until 4 weeks after delivery, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start contraceptive therapy with Introvale following the instructions in Table 1 for women not currently using hormonal contraception. Introvale is not recommended for use in lactating women [see Use in Specific Populations (8.2) ]. If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum, consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of Introvale [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.1 and 8.2) ]. 2.2 Dosing Introvale Instruct patients to take one tablet by mouth at the same time every day. The dosing of Introvale is one white to off-white pill containing levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol daily for 84 consecutive days, followed by one green pill (inactive pills without hormone) for 7 days. To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, Introvale must be taken exactly as directed, in the order directed on the Blister Pack, and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours. Start taking the first white to off-white pill from a new Blister Pack the very next day after taking the last green inactive pill in the Blister Pack. 2.3 Missed Doses Table 2: Instructions for Missed Introvale Tablets If one active tablet (white to off-white) is missed in Days 1 through 84 Take the tablet as soon as possible. If two consecutive active tablets (white to off-white) are missed in Days 1 through 84 Take 2 tablets on the day remembered and 2 tablets the next day. If three or more consecutive active tablets (white to off-white) are missed in Days 1 through 84 Do not take the missed tablets. If vomiting or diarrhea occurs within 3-4 hours after taking a white to off-white tablet, handle this as a missed tablet. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 1. How to Start and Take Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets, 0.15 mg/30 mcg are dispensed in a compact dispenser containing 28 tablets (see HOW SUPPLIED ). Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets may be started using either a Day 1 start or a Sunday start (see Table 3 ). Table 3: Instructions for Administration of Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets Starting levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets in females with no current use of hormonal contraception Day 1 start • Take first tablet without regard to meals on the first day of menses • Take subsequent tablets once daily at the same time each day • Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack (i.e., on the day after taking the last tablet) Sunday start • Take first tablet without regard to meals on the first Sunday after the onset of menstrual period • Take subsequent tablets once daily at the same time each day • Use additional nonhormonal contraception for the first seven days of product use • Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack (i.e., on the day after taking the last tablet) Switching from another contraceptive method • A COC • Start levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets: • On the day when the new pack of the previous COC would have been started • Transdermal patch • On the day when next application would have been scheduled • Vaginal ring • On the day when next insertion would have been scheduled • Injection • On the day when next injection would have been scheduled • Intrauterine contraceptive • On the day of removal • Implant • On the day of removal Starting Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets after Abortion or Miscarriage First-trimester • After a first-trimester abortion or miscarriage, levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets may be started immediately. An additional method of contraception is not needed if levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets are started immediately. • If levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets are not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy, the patient should use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) for the first seven days of her first cycle of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets. Second-trimester • Do not start until 4 weeks after a second-trimester abortion or miscarriage, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets following the instructions in Table 3 for Day 1 or Sunday start. Use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient’s first cycle of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS (1) , PRECAUTIONS (10) and FDA-APPROVED PATIENT LABELING ). Starting Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets after Childbirth • Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start contraceptive therapy with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets following the instructions in Table 3 for women not currently using hormonal contraception. • Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets are not recommended for use in lactating women (see PRECAUTIONS (7) and FDA-APPROVED PATIENT LABELING ). • If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum, consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS (9) , PRECAUTIONS (6) and FDA- APPROVED PATIENT LABELING ). 2. Dosing Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets Instruct patients to take one tablet by mouth at the same time every day. To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, patients must take levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets as directed, in the order directed on the blister pack. 3. Missed doses Instruct patients about the handling of missed doses (e.g., to take single missed pills as soon as possible) and to follow the dosing instructions provided in the FDA-approved patient labeling. Table 4: Instructions for Missed Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablets • If one active tablet is missed in Weeks 1, 2, or 3 Take the tablet as soon as possible. • If two active tablets are missed in Week 1 or Week 2 Take the two missed tablets as soon as possible and the next two active tablets the next day. Additional nonhormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) should be used as back-up if the patient has sex within 7 days after missing tablets. • If two active tablets are missed in the third week or three or more active tablets are missed in a row in Weeks 1, 2, or 3 Day 1 start: Throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day. Advice in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances If vomiting occurs within 3 to 4 hours after taking levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets, the patient should proceed as if she missed a tablet. In case of prolonged vomiting or diarrhea, absorption may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken. ( 2 ) 2.1 How to Start and Take LoJaimiess Begin LoJaimiess on the first Sunday after the onset of menstruation. If menstruation begins on a Sunday, take the first white to off-white tablet that day. For each 91-day course, take in the following order: Take one white to off-white tablet daily for 84 consecutive days. Use a non-hormonal back-up method of contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) until a white to off-white tablet has been taken daily for 7 consecutive days. Then take one light peach tablet for 7 consecutive days. A scheduled period should occur during the 7 days that the light peach tablets are taken. Begin the next and all subsequent 91-day cycles without interruption on the same day of the week (Sunday) on which the patient began her first dose of LoJaimiess, following the same schedule: 84 days taking a white to off-white tablet followed by 7 days taking a light peach tablet. Switching to LoJaimiess from another oral hormonal contraceptive or from another contraceptive method (transdermal patch, vaginal ring, injection, intrauterine contraceptive, implant) Start on the Sunday after the patient’s next period starts. Use additional non-hormonal contraceptive (such as condoms and spermicide) until the patient has taken a white to off-white tablet for 7 consecutive days. Starting LoJaimiess after Abortion or Miscarriage First-trimester LoJaimiess may be started on the Sunday after an abortion or miscarriage. The patient must use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) until the patient has taken a white to off-white tablet for 7 consecutive days. Start contraceptive therapy with LoJaimiess following the instructions for women not currently using hormonal contraception. Use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) until the patient has taken a white to off-white tablet for 7 consecutive days [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1 )]. Starting LoJaimiess after Childbirth Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) until the patient has taken a white to off-white tablet for 7 consecutive days [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum, consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of LoJaimiess [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ]. 2.2 Dosing LoJaimiess Take one tablet by mouth at the same time every day. The dosage of LoJaimiess is one white to off-white tablet daily for 84 consecutive days, followed by one light peach tablet daily for 7 days. To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, LoJaimiess must be taken exactly as directed, in the order directed, and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours. Instructions for Missed LoJaimiess Tablets If one white to off-white tablet is missed Take the missed tablet as soon as possible. If two white to off-white tablets in a row are missed Take the two missed tablets as soon as possible, and the next two tablets the next day. If three or more white to off-white tablets in a row are missed Throw away the missed pills. Additional nonhormonal contraception (such as condoms and spermicide) until tablets have been taken for 7 days after missing tablets. If any of the seven light peach tablets are missed Throw away the missed tablets. 2.1 How to Start and Take LoJaimiess Begin LoJaimiess on the first Sunday after the onset of menstruation. How to Start and Take Ayuna Ayuna is dispensed in a blister pack containing 28 tablets (see HOW SUPPLIED ). Ayuna may be started using either a Day 1 start or a Sunday start (see Table 3). Table 3: Instructions for Administration of Ayuna Starting Ayuna in females with no current use of hormonal contraception Day 1 start Take first tablet without regard to meals on the first day of menses Take subsequent tablets once daily at the same time each day Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack (i.e., on the day after taking the last tablet) Sunday start Take first tablet without regard to meals on the first Sunday after the onset of menstrual period Take subsequent tablets once daily at the same time each day Use additional nonhormonal contraception for the first seven days of product use Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack (i.e., on the day after taking the last tablet) Switching from another contraceptive method A COC Transdermal patch Vaginal ring Injection Intrauterine contraceptive Implant Start Ayuna: On the day when the new pack of the previous COC would have been started On the day when next application would have been scheduled On the day when next insertion would have been scheduled On the day when next injection would have been scheduled On the day of removal On the day of removal Starting Ayuna after Abortion or Miscarriage First-trimester After a first-trimester abortion or miscarriage, Ayuna may be started immediately. An additional method of contraception is not needed if Ayuna is started immediately. If Ayuna is not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy, the patient should use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) for the first seven days of her first cycle of Ayuna. Start Ayuna following the instructions in Table 3 for Day 1 or Sunday start. Use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient’s first cycle of Ayuna (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS (1) , PRECAUTIONS (10) and FDA-APPROVED PATIENT LABELING) . Starting Ayuna after Childbirth Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start contraceptive therapy with Ayuna following the instructions in Table 3 for women not currently using hormonal contraception. Ayuna is not recommended for use in lactating women (see PRECAUTIONS (7) and FDA-APPROVED PATIENT LABELING). If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum, consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of Ayuna (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS (9) , PRECAUTIONS (6) and FDA-APPROVED PATIENT LABELING) . Dosing Ayuna Instruct patients to take one tablet by mouth at the same time every day. To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, patients must take Ayuna as directed, in the order directed on the blister pack. Table 4: Instructions for Missed Ayuna Tablets If one active tablet is missed in Weeks 1, 2, or 3 Take the tablet as soon as possible. If two active tablets are missed in Week 1 or Week 2 Take the two missed tablets as soon as possible and the next two active tablets the next day. If two active tablets are missed in the third week or three or more active tablets are missed in a row in Weeks 1, 2, or 3 Day 1 start: Throw out the rest of the pack and start a new pack that same day. Advice in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances If vomiting occurs within 3 to 4 hours after taking Ayuna, the patient should proceed as if she missed a tablet. How to Start and Take LEVORA 0.15/30-28 LEVORA 0.15/30-28 is dispensed in a compact dispenser containing 28 tablets (see HOW SUPPLIED ). LEVORA 0.15/30-28 may be started using either a Day 1 start or a Sunday start (see Table 3 ). Table 3: Instructions for Administration of LEVORA 0.15/30-28 Starting LEVORA 0.15/30-28 in females with no current use of hormonal contraception Day 1 start Take first tablet without regard to meals on the first day of menses Take subsequent tablets once daily at the same time each day Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack (i.e., on the day after taking the last tablet) Sunday start Take first tablet without regard to meals on the first Sunday after the onset of menstrual period Take subsequent tablets once daily at the same time each day Use additional nonhormonal contraception for the first seven days of product use Begin each subsequent pack on the same day of the week as the first cycle pack (i.e., on the day after taking the last tablet) Switching from another contraceptive method A COC Start LEVORA 0.15/30-28 : On the day when the new pack of the previous COC would have been started Transdermal patch On the day when next application would have been scheduled Vaginal ring On the day when next insertion would have been scheduled Injection On the day when next injection would have been scheduled Intrauterine contraceptive On the day of removal Implant On the day of removal Starting LEVORA 0.15/30-28 after Abortion or Miscarriage First-trimester After a first-trimester abortion or miscarriage, LEVORA 0.15/30-28 may be started immediately. An additional method of contraception is not needed if LEVORA 0.15/30-28 is started immediately. If LEVORA 0.15/30-28 is not started within 5 days after termination of the pregnancy, the patient should use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) for the first seven days of her first cycle of LEVORA 0.15/30-28. Start LEVORA 0.15/30-28 following the instructions in Table 3 for Day 1 or Sunday start. Use additional non-hormonal contraception (such as condoms or spermicide) for the first seven days of the patient's first cycle of LEVORA 0.15/30-28 (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS (1) , PRECAUTIONS (10) and FDA-APPROVED PATIENT LABELING) . Starting LEVORA 0.15/30-28 after Childbirth Do not start until 4 weeks after delivery, due to the increased risk of thromboembolic disease. Start contraceptive therapy with LEVORA 0.15/30-28 following the instructions in Table 3 for women not currently using hormonal contraception. LEVORA 0.15/30-28 is not recommended for use in lactating women (see PRECAUTIONS (7) and FDA-APPROVED PATIENT LABELING). If the woman has not yet had a period postpartum, consider the possibility of ovulation and conception occurring prior to use of LEVORA 0.15/30-28 (see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS (10) , PRECAUTIONS (6) and FDA­ APPROVED PATIENT LABELING) . Dosing LEVORA 0.15/30-28 Instruct patients to take one tablet by mouth at the same time every day. To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, patients must take LEVORA 0.15/30-28 as directed, in the order directed on the blister pack. Table 4: Instructions for Missed LEVORA 0.15/30-28 Tablets If one active tablet is missed in Weeks 1, 2, or 3 Take the tablet as soon as possible. Advice in Case of Gastrointestinal Disturbances If vomiting occurs within 3 to 4 hours after taking LEVORA 0.15/30-28, the patient should proceed as if she missed a tablet. Dosage and Administration To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness, levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol (tablets triphasic regimen) must be taken exactly as directed and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours. Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets are a three-phase preparation plus 7 inert tablets. The dosage of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets is one tablet daily for 28 consecutive days per menstrual cycle in the following order; 6 light blue tablets (phase 1), followed by 5 white to off white tablets (phase 2), followed by 10 pink tablets (phase 3), plus 7 orange inert tablets, according to the prescribed schedule. It is recommended that levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets be taken at the same time each day, preferably after the evening meal or at bedtime. During the first cycle of medication, the patient should be instructed to take one levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablet daily in the order of 6 light blue, 5 white to off white, 10 pink tablets, and then 7 orange inert tablets for twenty-eight (28) consecutive days, beginning on day one (1) of her menstrual cycle. (The first day of menstruation is day one.) Withdrawal bleeding usually occurs within 3 days following the last pink tablet. (If levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets are first taken later than the first day of the first menstrual cycle of medication or postpartum, contraceptive reliance should not be placed on levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets until after the first 7 consecutive days of administration. The possibility of ovulation and conception prior to initiation of medication should be considered.) When switching from another oral contraceptive, levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets should be started on the first day of bleeding following the last active tablet taken of the previous oral contraceptive. The patient begins her next and all subsequent 28-day courses of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets on the same day of the week that she began her first course, following the same schedule. She begins taking her light blue tablets on the next day after ingestion of the last orange tablet, regardless of whether or not a menstrual period has occurred or is still in progress. Any time a subsequent cycle of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets is started later than the next day, the patient should be protected by another means of contraception until she has taken a tablet daily for seven consecutive days. If spotting or breakthrough bleeding occurs, the patient is instructed to continue on the same regimen. This type of bleeding is usually transient and without significance; however, if the bleeding is persistent or prolonged, the patient is advised to consult her physician. Although the occurrence of pregnancy is highly unlikely if levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets are taken according to directions, if withdrawal bleeding does not occur, the possibility of pregnancy must be considered. If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed schedule (missed one or more tablets or started taking them on a day later than she should have), the probability of pregnancy should be considered at the time of the first missed period and appropriate diagnostic measures taken before the medication is resumed. If the patient has adhered to the prescribed regimen and misses two consecutive periods, pregnancy should be ruled out before continuing the contraceptive regimen. The risk of pregnancy increases with each active (light blue, white to off white, or pink) tablet missed. For additional patient instructions regarding missed pills, see the "WHAT TO DO IF YOU MISS PILLS" section in the DETAILED PATIENT LABELING below. If breakthrough bleeding occurs following missed active tablets, it will usually be transient and of no consequence. If the patient misses one or more orange tablets, she is still protected against pregnancy provided she begins taking light blue tablets on the again on the proper day. In the nonlactating mother, Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets may be initiated postpartum, for contraception. When the tablets are administered in the postpartum period, the increased risk of thromboembolic disease associated with the postparturn period must be considered (see "Contraindications," "Warnings," and "Precautions" concerning thromboembolic disease). It is to be noted that early resumption of ovulation may occur if Parlodel ® (bromocriptine mesylate) has been used for the prevention of lactation.
Warnings: WARNINGS Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular side effects from oral contraceptive use. This risk increases with age and with the extent of smoking (in epidemiologic studies, 15 or more cigarettes per day was associated with a significantly increased risk) and is quite marked in women over 35 years of age. Women who use oral contraceptives should be strongly advised not to smoke. The use of oral contraceptives is associated with increased risks of several serious conditions including venous and arterial thrombotic and thromboembolic events (such as myocardial infarction, thromboembolism, stroke, and transient ischemic attack), hepatic neoplasia, gallbladder disease, and hypertension, although the risk of serious morbidity or mortality is very small in healthy women without underlying risk factors. The risk of morbidity and mortality increases significantly in the presence of other underlying risk factors such as certain inherited or acquired thrombophilias, hypertension, hyperlipidemias, obesity, diabetes, and surgery or trauma with increased risk of thrombosis (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Practitioners prescribing oral contraceptives should be familiar with the following information relating to these risks. The information contained in this package insert is principally based on studies carried out in patients who used oral contraceptives with higher doses of estrogens and progestogens than those in common use today. The effect of long-term use of the oral contraceptives with lower doses of both estrogens and progestogens remains to be determined. Throughout this labeling, epidemiological studies reported are of two types: retrospective or case control studies and prospective or cohort studies. Case control studies provide a measure of the relative risk of disease, namely, a ratio of the incidence of a disease among oral contraceptive users to that among nonusers. The relative risk does not provide information on the actual clinical occurrence of a disease. Cohort studies provide a measure of attributable risk, which is the difference in the incidence of disease between oral contraceptive users and nonusers. The attributable risk does provide information about the actual occurrence of a disease in the population. For further information, the reader is referred to a text on epidemiological methods. 1. Thromboembolic Disorders and Other Vascular Problems DOLISHALE is a non-cyclic oral contraceptive that provides a low daily dose of estrogen and progestin; however, DOLISHALE provides women with more hormonal exposure on a yearly basis (13 additional weeks of hormone intake per year) than conventional cyclic oral contraceptives containing the same strength of synthetic estrogens and similar strength of progestins. a. Myocardial Infarction An increased risk of myocardial infarction has been attributed to oral contraceptive use. This risk is primarily in smokers or women with other underlying risk factors for coronary-artery disease such as hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, morbid obesity, and diabetes. The relative risk of heart attack for current oral contraceptive users has been estimated to be two to six. The risk is very low under the age of 30. Smoking in combination with oral contraceptive use has been shown to contribute substantially to the incidence of myocardial infarction in women in their mid-thirties or older with smoking accounting for the majority of excess cases. Mortality rates associated with circulatory disease have been shown to increase substantially in smokers over the age of 35 and nonsmokers over the age of 40 (Figure 3) among women who use oral contraceptives. Figure 3: Circulatory Disease Mortality Rates per 100,000 Woman Years by Age, Smoking Status and Oral Contraceptive Use Oral contraceptives may compound the effects of well-known risk factors, such as hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemias, age, and obesity. In particular, some progestogens are known to decrease HDL cholesterol and cause glucose intolerance, while estrogens may create a state of hyperinsulinism. Oral contraceptives have been shown to increase blood pressure among users (see section 10 in WARNINGS ). Similar effects on risk factors have been associated with an increased risk of heart disease. Oral contraceptives must be used with caution in women with cardiovascular disease risk factors. b. Venous Thrombosis and Thromboembolism An increased risk of venous thromboembolic and thrombotic disease associated with the use of oral contraceptives is well established. The risk of venous thrombotic and thromboembolic events is further increased in women with conditions predisposing for venous thrombosis and thromboembolism. Case control studies have found the relative risk of users compared to non-users to be 3 for the first episode of superficial venous thrombosis, 4 to 11 for deep-vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism, and 1.5 to 6 for women with predisposing conditions for venous thromboembolic disease. Cohort studies have shown the relative risk to be somewhat lower, about 3 for new cases and about 4.5 for new cases requiring hospitalization. The approximate incidence of deep-vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in users of low dose (<0.05 mg ethinyl estradiol) combination oral contraceptives is up to 4 per 10,000 woman-years compared to 0.5 to 3 per 10,000 woman-years for non-users. However, the incidence is less than that associated with pregnancy (6 per 10,000 woman-years). The excess risk is highest during the first year a woman ever uses a combined oral contraceptive. Venous thromboembolism may be fatal. The risk of thromboembolic disease due to oral contraceptives is not related to length of use and gradually disappears after pill use is stopped. A post-marketing observational study evaluated the risk of venous thromboembolism with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets use in two large US automated healthcare claims databases. The study was not completed as planned due to low accrual of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets users in these databases and discontinuation of the product from the market due to low usage. At study discontinuation, the crude incidence rate of venous thromboembolism among levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets users (n=12,281) was 17.6 per 10,000 person- years, compared to 8.8 per 10,000 person-years among the users of cyclic oral contraceptives containing 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol and a progestogen, and 5.1 per 10,000 person-years among the users of cyclic oral contraceptives containing the progestin levonorgestrel and 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol. Adjustment for important risk factors or confounders (such as obesity, cardiovascular disease and other diseases) for venous thromboembolism could not be performed due to the small sample size. Although the study results suggest an elevated risk of venous thromboembolism with current levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets use compared to cyclic oral hormonal contraceptive use, reliable interpretation of the results is significantly limited due to the small sample size and concerns over unmeasured and uncontrolled confounding, as well as questions about the suitability of the comparator selection and the validity of the venous thromboembolism definition. A two-to-four fold increase in relative risk of postoperative thromboembolic complications has been reported with the use of oral contraceptives. The relative risk of venous thrombosis in women who have predisposing conditions is twice that of women without such medical conditions. If feasible, oral contraceptives should be discontinued at least four weeks prior to and for two weeks after elective surgery of a type associated with an increase in risk of thromboembolism and during and following prolonged immobilization. Since the immediate post-partum period is also associated with an increased risk of thromboembolism, oral contraceptives should be started no earlier than four weeks after delivery in women who elect not to breast-feed, or after a midtrimester pregnancy termination. c. Cerebrovascular Diseases Oral contraceptives have been shown to increase both the relative and attributable risks of cerebrovascular events (thrombotic and hemorrhagic strokes), although, in general, the risk is greatest among older (>35 years), hypertensive women who also smoke. Hypertension was found to be a risk factor for both users and nonusers, for both types of strokes, while smoking interacted to increase the risk for hemorrhagic strokes. Transient ischemic attacks have also been associated with oral contraceptive use. In a large study, the relative risk of thrombotic strokes has been shown to range from 3 for normotensive users to 14 for users with severe hypertension. The relative risk of hemorrhagic stroke is reported to be 1.2 for nonsmokers who used oral contraceptives, 2.6 for smokers who did not use oral contraceptives, 7.6 for smokers who used oral contraceptives, 1.8 for normotensive users and 25.7 for users with severe hypertension. The attributable risk is also greater in older women. Oral contraceptives also increase the risk for stroke in women with other underlying risk factors such as certain inherited or acquired thrombophilias. Women with migraine (particularly migraine/headaches with focal neurological symptoms such as aura) who take combination oral contraceptives may be at an increased risk of stroke. (See CONTRAINDICATIONS .) d. Dose-Related Risk of Vascular Disease From Oral Contraceptives A positive association has been observed between the amount of estrogen and progestogen in oral contraceptives and the risk of vascular disease. A decline in serum high-density lipoproteins (HDL) has been reported with many progestational agents. A decline in serum high-density lipoproteins has been associated with an increased incidence of ischemic heart disease. Because estrogens increase HDL cholesterol, the net effect of an oral contraceptive depends on a balance achieved between doses of estrogen and progestogen and the nature and absolute amount of progestogen used in the contraceptive. The amount of both hormones should be considered in the choice of an oral contraceptive. Minimizing exposure to estrogen and progestogen is in keeping with good principles of therapeutics. For any particular estrogen/progestogen combination, the dosage regimen prescribed should be one which contains the least amount of estrogen and progestogen that is compatible with a low failure rate and the needs of the individual patient. New acceptors of oral contraceptive agents should be started on preparations containing the lowest estrogen content which is judged appropriate for the individual patient. e. Persistence of Risk of Vascular Disease There are two studies which have shown persistence of risk of vascular disease for ever-users of oral contraceptives. In a study in the United States, the risk of developing myocardial infarction after discontinuing oral contraceptives persisted for at least 9 years for women 40 to 49 years who had used oral contraceptives for five or more years, but this increased risk was not demonstrated in other age groups. In another study in Great Britain, the risk of developing cerebrovascular disease persisted for at least 6 years after discontinuation of oral contraceptives, although excess risk was very small. However, both studies were performed with oral contraceptive formulations containing 0.05 mg or higher of estrogens. 2. Estimates of Mortality From Contraceptive Use One study gathered data from a variety of sources which have estimated the mortality rate associated with different methods of contraception at different ages (Table 3). These estimates include the combined risk of death associated with contraceptive methods plus the risk attributable to pregnancy in the event of method failure. Each method of contraception has its specific benefits and risks. The study concluded that with the exception of oral contraceptive users 35 and older who smoke and 40 and older who do not smoke, mortality associated with all methods of birth control is less than that associated with childbirth. The observation of a possible increase in risk of mortality with age for oral contraceptive users is based on data gathered in the 1970's — but not reported until 1983. However, current clinical practice involves the use of lower estrogen dose formulations combined with careful restriction of oral contraceptive use to women who do not have the various risk factors listed in this labeling. Because of these changes in practice, and also because of some limited new data which suggest that the risk of cardiovascular disease with the use of oral contraceptives may now be less than previously observed, the Fertility and Maternal Health Drugs Advisory Committee was asked to review the topic in 1989. The Committee concluded that although cardiovascular disease risks may be increased with oral contraceptive use after age 40 in healthy nonsmoking women (even with the newer low-dose formulations), there are greater potential health risks associated with pregnancy in older women and with the alternative surgical and medical procedures which may be necessary if such women do not have access to effective and acceptable means of contraception. Therefore, the Committee recommended that the benefits of oral contraceptive use by healthy nonsmoking women over 40 may outweigh the possible risks. Of course, older women, as all women who take oral contraceptives, should take the lowest possible dose formulation that is effective. Table 3: Annual Number of Birth-Related or Method-Related Deaths Associated with Control of Fertility per 100,000 Nonsterile Women, by Fertility-Control Method and According to Age Method of control and outcome 15 to 19 20 to 24 25 to 29 30 to 34 35 to 39 40 to 44 No fertility-control methods* 7.0 7.4 9.1 14.8 25.7 28.2 Oral contraceptives nonsmoker** 0.3 0.5 0.9 1.9 13.8 31.6 Oral contraceptives smoker** 2.2 3.4 6.6 13.5 51.1 117.2 IUD** 0.8 0.8 1.0 1.0 1.4 1.4 Condom* 1.1 1.6 0.7 0.2 0.3 0.4 Diaphragm/spermicide* 1.9 1.2 1.2 1.3 2.2 2.8 Periodic abstinence* 2.5 1.6 1.6 1.7 2.9 3.6 * Deaths are birth-related ** Deaths are method-related Adapted from H.W. Ory, Family Planning Perspectives, 15:57 to 63, 1983. 3. Malignant Neoplasms Breast Cancer DOLISHALE is contraindicated in females who currently have or have had breast cancer because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive [see Contraindications]. Epidemiology studies have not found a consistent association between use of combined oral contraceptives (COCs) and breast cancer risk. Studies do not show an association between ever (current or past) use of COCs and risk of breast cancer. However, some studies report a small increase in the risk of breast cancer among current or recent users (<6 months since last use) and current users with longer duration of COC use [see Postmarketing Experience]. Cervical Cancer Some studies suggest that oral contraceptive use has been associated with an increase in the risk of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia or invasive cervical cancer in some populations of women. However, there continues to be controversy about the extent to which such findings may be due to differences in sexual behavior and other factors. Endometrial biopsies performed in a subset of subjects (Study 1; n = 93) ages 18 to 49 years, after 6 to 12 months of use of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol, did not reveal any hyperplasias or malignancies. Endometrial malignancy is rare in this age group, so change in the risk is unlikely to be detected with a study of this size. 4. Hepatic Neoplasia Benign hepatic adenomas are associated with oral contraceptive use, although the incidence of these benign tumors is rare in the United States. Indirect calculations have estimated the attributable risk to be in the range of 3.3 cases/100,000 for users, a risk that increases after four or more years of use. Rupture of rare, benign, hepatic adenomas may cause death through intra-abdominal hemorrhage. Studies from Britain have shown an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma in long-term (>8 years) oral contraceptive user. However, these cancers are extremely rare in the U.S. and the attributable risk (the excess incidence) of liver cancers in oral contraceptive users approaches less than one per million users. 5. RISK OF LIVER ENZYME ELEVATIONS WITH CONCOMITANT HEPATITIS C TREATMENT During clinical trials with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen that contains ombitasvir/ paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, ALT elevations greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN), including some cases greater than 20 times the ULN, were significantly more frequent in women using ethinyl estradiol-containing medications such as COCs. Discontinue DOLISHALE prior to starting therapy with the combination drug regimen ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir [see Contraindications (4)] . DOLISHALE can be restarted approximately 2 weeks following completion of treatment with the combination drug regimen. 6. Ocular Lesions There have been clinical case reports of retinal thrombosis associated with the use of oral contraceptives that may lead to partial or complete loss of vision. Oral contraceptives should be discontinued if there is unexplained partial or complete loss of vision; onset of proptosis or diplopia; papilledema; or retinal vascular lesions. Appropriate diagnostic and therapeutic measures should be undertaken immediately. 7. Oral Contraceptive Use Before or During Early Pregnancy Extensive epidemiological studies have revealed no increased risk of birth defects in infants born to women who have used oral contraceptives prior to pregnancy. Studies also do not suggest a teratogenic effect, particularly insofar as cardiac anomalies and limb-reduction defects are concerned, when taken inadvertently during early pregnancy (see CONTRAINDICATIONS section). The administration of oral contraceptives to induce withdrawal bleeding should not be used as a test for pregnancy. Oral contraceptives should not be used during pregnancy to treat threatened or habitual abortion. The possibility of pregnancy should be considered in any patient who may be experiencing symptoms of pregnancy, especially if she has not adhered to the prescribed schedule. Oral-contraceptive use must be discontinued if pregnancy is confirmed. 8. Gallbladder Disease Combination oral contraceptives may worsen existing gallbladder disease and may accelerate the development of this disease in previously asymptomatic women. Earlier studies have reported an increased lifetime relative risk of gallbladder surgery in users of oral contraceptives and estrogens. More recent studies, however, have shown that the relative risk of developing gallbladder disease among oral contraceptive users may be minimal. The recent findings of minimal risk may be related to the use of oral contraceptive formulations containing lower hormonal doses of estrogens and progestogens. 9. Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Oral contraceptives have been shown to cause glucose intolerance in a significant percentage of users. Oral contraceptives containing greater than 0.075 mg of estrogens cause hyperinsulinism, while lower doses of estrogen cause less glucose intolerance. Progestogens increase insulin secretion and create insulin resistance, this effect varying with different progestational agents. However, in the nondiabetic woman, oral contraceptives appear to have no effect on fasting blood glucose. Because of these demonstrated effects, prediabetic and diabetic women should be carefully observed while taking oral contraceptives. A small proportion of women will have persistent hypertriglyceridemia while on the pill. As discussed earlier (see WARNINGS , 1a. and 1d.; PRECAUTIONS , 3.), changes in serum triglycerides and lipoprotein levels have been reported in oral contraceptive users. 10. Elevated Blood Pressure An increase in blood pressure has been reported in women taking oral contraceptives and this increase is more likely in older oral contraceptive users and with continued use. Data from the Royal College of General Practitioners and subsequent randomized trials have shown that the incidence of hypertension increases with increasing quantities of progestogens. Women with a history of hypertension or hypertension-related diseases, or renal disease should be encouraged to use another method of contraception. If women with hypertension elect to use oral contraceptives, they should be monitored closely and if significant elevation of blood pressure occurs, oral contraceptives should be discontinued (see CONTRAINDICATIONS section). For most women, elevated blood pressure will return to normal after stopping oral contraceptives, and there is no difference in the occurrence of hypertension among ever- and never-users. 11. Headache The onset or exacerbation of migraine or development of headache with a new pattern that is recurrent, persistent, or severe requires discontinuation of oral contraceptives and evaluation of the cause. (See WARNINGS , 1c. and CONTRAINDICATIONS .) 12. Bleeding Irregularities When prescribing DOLISHALE, the convenience of having no scheduled menstrual bleeding should be weighed against the inconvenience of unscheduled breakthrough bleeding and spotting. In Study 313-NA, 385/2,134 (18%) of women discontinued prematurely due to bleeding that was reported either as an adverse event or where bleeding was given as one of the reasons for discontinuation (see INDICATIONS AND USAGE , Clinical Studies ). Figure 4 shows the percentage of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol subjects in study 313-NA by pill pack who experienced unscheduled bleeding or spotting only (Defined as "No sanitary protection required"). Figure 5 shows the percentage of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablet subjects with complete bleeding data in Study 313-NA who had 4 or more and 7 or more days of bleeding and/or spotting during each pill pack cycle. During pill pack 2, 67% of subjects experienced 4 or more days of bleeding and/or spotting and 54% of these subjects experienced 7 or more days of bleeding and/or spotting. During the final cycle of use of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol (pill pack 13), these percentages were 31% and 20%, respectively. As in any case of bleeding irregularities, nonhormonal causes should be considered and adequate diagnostic measures may be indicated to rule out pregnancy, infection, malignancy, or other conditions. Some women may encounter post-pill amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea (possibly with anovulation), especially when such a condition was preexistent. 13. Ectopic Pregnancy Ectopic as well as intrauterine pregnancy may occur in contraceptive failures. Image Image Image WARNINGS 1. Thromboembolic Disorders and Other Vascular Conditions • Stop levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets if an arterial or venous thrombotic/thromboembolic event occurs. • Stop levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets if there is unexplained loss of vision, proptosis, diplopia, papilledema, or retinal vascular lesions and evaluate for retinal vein thrombosis immediately. • Discontinue levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets during prolonged immobilization. If feasible, stop levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets at least four weeks before and through two weeks after major surgery, or other surgeries known to have an elevated risk of thromboembolism. • Start levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets no earlier than four weeks after delivery in females who are not breast-feeding. The risk of postpartum thromboembolism decreases after the third postpartum week, whereas the likelihood of ovulation increases after the third postpartum week. • Before starting levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets evaluate any past medical history or family history of thrombotic or thromboembolic disorders and consider whether the history suggests an inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathy. Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets are contraindicated in females with a high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic/thromboembolic diseases (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Arterial Events COCs increase the risk of cardiovascular events and cerebrovascular events, such as myocardial infarction and stroke. The risk is greater among older women (> 35 years of age), smokers, and females with hypertension, dyslipidemia, diabetes, or obesity. Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets are contraindicated in women over 35 years of age who smoke (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from COC use. This risk increases with age, particularly in women over 35 years of age, and with the number of cigarettes smoked. Venous Events Use of COCs increases the risk of venous thromboembolic events (VTEs), such as deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism. Risk factors for VTEs include smoking, obesity, and family history of VTE, in addition to other factors that contraindicate use of COCs (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). While the increased risk of VTE associated with use of COCs is well-established, the rates of VTE are even greater during pregnancy, and especially during the postpartum period (see Figure 1 ). The rate of VTE in females using COCs has been estimated to be 3 to 9 cases per 10,000 woman-years. The risk of VTE is highest during the first year of use of a COC and when restarting hormonal contraception after a break of four weeks or longer. Based on results from a few studies, there is some evidence that this is true for non-oral products as well. The risk of thromboembolic disease due to COCs gradually disappears after COC use is discontinued. Figure 1 shows the risk of developing a VTE for females who are not pregnant and do not use oral contraceptives, for females who use oral contraceptives, for pregnant females, and for females in the postpartum period. To put the risk of developing a VTE into perspective: If 10,000 females who are not pregnant and do not use oral contraceptives are followed for one year, between 1 and 5 of these females will develop a VTE. Figure 1 Likelihood of Developing a VTE Fig 01 2. Liver Disease Elevated Liver Enzymes Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets are contraindicated in females with acute viral hepatitis or severe (decompensated) cirrhosis of liver (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Discontinue levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets if jaundice develops. Acute liver test abnormalities may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use until the liver tests return to normal and COC causation has been excluded. Liver Tumors Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets are contraindicated in females with benign or malignant liver tumors (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). COCs increase the risk of hepatic adenomas. An estimate of the attributable risk is 3.3 cases/100,000 COC users. Rupture of hepatic adenomas may cause death from abdominal hemorrhage. Studies have shown an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma in long-term (> 8 years) COC users. The attributable risk of liver cancers in COC users is less than one case per million users. Hypertension Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets are contraindicated in females with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). For all females, including those with well-controlled hypertension, monitor blood pressure at routine visits and stop levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets if blood pressure rises significantly. An increase in blood pressure has been reported in females using COCs, and this increase is more likely in older women with extended duration of use. The effect of COCs on blood pressure may vary according to the progestin in the COC. Age-related Considerations The risk for cardiovascular disease and prevalence of risk factors for cardiovascular disease increase with age. Certain conditions, such as smoking and migraine headache without aura, that do not contraindicate COC use in younger females, are contraindications to use in women over 35 years of age [see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS (1) ]. Consider the presence of underlying risk factors that may increase the risk of cardiovascular disease or VTE, particularly before initiating a COC for women over 35 years, such as: • Hypertension • Diabetes • Dyslipidemia • Obesity 5. Risk of Liver Enzyme Elevations with Concomitant Hepatitis C Treatment During clinical trials with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen that contains ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, ALT elevations greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN), including some cases greater than 20 times the ULN, were significantly more frequent in women using ethinyl estradiol-containing medications such as COCs. Discontinue levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets prior to starting therapy with the combination drug regimen ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets can be restarted approximately 2 weeks following completion of treatment with the combination drug regimen. Gallbladder Disease Studies suggest an increased risk of developing gallbladder disease among COC users. Use of COCs may also worsen existing gallbladder disease. A past history of COC-related cholestasis predicts an increased risk with subsequent COC use. Females with a history of pregnancy-related cholestasis may be at an increased risk for COC-related cholestasis. Adverse Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Hyperglycemia Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets are contraindicated in diabetic women over age 35, or females who have diabetes with hypertension, nephropathy, retinopathy, neuropathy, other vascular disease, or females with diabetes of > 20 years duration (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets may decrease glucose tolerance. Carefully monitor prediabetic and diabetic females who are using levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets. Dyslipidemia Consider alternative contraception for females with uncontrolled dyslipidemia. Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets may cause adverse lipid changes. Females with hypertriglyceridemia, or a family history thereof, may have an increase in serum triglyceride concentrations when using levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets which may increase the risk of pancreatitis. Headache Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets are contraindicated in females who have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or have migraine headaches with aura, and in women over age 35 years who have migraine headaches with or without aura (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). If a woman using levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets develops new headaches that are recurrent, persistent, or severe, evaluate the cause and discontinue levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets if indicated. Consider discontinuation of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets if there is an increased frequency or severity of migraines during COC use (which may be prodromal of a cerebrovascular event). Bleeding Irregularities and Amenorrhea Unscheduled Bleeding and Spotting Females using levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets may experience unscheduled (breakthrough or intracyclic) bleeding and spotting, especially during the first three months of use. Bleeding irregularities may resolve over time or by changing to a different contraceptive product. If bleeding persists or occurs after previously regular cycles, evaluate for causes such as pregnancy or malignancy. In two clinical trials of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets (1084 subjects reporting for a total of 8186 treatment cycles and 238 subjects reporting for a total of 1102 treatment cycles), breakthrough bleeding occurred in 6.9% and 8.1% of reported cycles, and spotting occurred in 8.6% and 7.9% of reported cycles over the total study duration, respectively. In the two trials, intermenstrual bleeding (i.e., breakthrough bleeding and/or spotting) occurred in 13.1% and 12.9% of reported cycles over the total study duration, respectively. In one trial, 33 subjects out of 1084 (3.0%) discontinued due to bleeding irregularities (i.e., breakthrough bleeding and spotting); in the other trial, 6 subjects out of 238 (2.5%) discontinued due to bleeding irregularities. Amenorrhea and Oligomenorrhea Females who use levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets may experience absence of scheduled (withdrawal) bleeding, even if they are not pregnant. In two clinical trials of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets, one including 8186 reported treatment cycles, and the other including 1102 reported treatment cycles, amenorrhea occurred in 1.5% of treatment cycles in each trial. If scheduled bleeding does not occur, consider the possibility of pregnancy. If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed dosing schedule (missed one or two active tablets or started taking them on a day later than she should have), consider the possibility of pregnancy at the time of the first missed period and perform appropriate diagnostic measures. If the patient has adhered to the prescribed dosing schedule and misses two consecutive periods, rule out pregnancy. After discontinuation of a COC, amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea may occur, especially if these conditions were pre-existent. Depression Carefully observe females with a history of depression and discontinue levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets if depression recurs to a serious degree. Data on the association of COCs with onset of depression or exacerbation of existing depression are limited. Malignant Neoplasms Breast Cancer Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets are contraindicated in females who currently have or have had breast cancer because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive [see CONTRAINDICATIONS]. However, some studies report a small increase in the risk of breast cancer among current or recent users (<6 months since last use) and current users with longer duration of COC use (see ADVERSE REACTIONS, Post Marketing Experience). Cervical Cancer Some studies suggest that COCs are associated with an increase in the risk of cervical cancer or intraepithelial neoplasia. There is controversy about the extent to which these findings are due to differences in sexual behavior and other factors. 12. Effect on Binding Globulins The estrogen component of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets may raise the serum concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. The dose of replacement thyroid hormone or cortisol therapy may need to be increased. Hereditary Angioedema In females with hereditary angioedema, exogenous estrogens may induce or exacerbate symptoms of angioedema. 14. Chloasma Chloasma may occur with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets use, especially in females with a history of chloasma gravidarum. Advise females with a history of chloasma to avoid exposure to the sun or ultraviolet radiation while using levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets. Thromboembolic Disorders and Other Vascular Conditions Stop levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets if an arterial or venous thrombotic/thromboembolic event occurs. Stop levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets if there is unexplained loss of vision, proptosis, diplopia, papilledema, or retinal vascular lesions and evaluate for retinal vein thrombosis immediately. Discontinue levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets during prolonged immobilization. Start levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets no earlier than four weeks after delivery in females who are not breast-feeding. Before starting levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets evaluate any past medical history or family history of thrombotic or thromboembolic disorders and consider whether the history suggests an inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathy. Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets is contraindicated in females with a high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic/thromboembolic diseases (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets is contraindicated in women over 35 years of age who smoke (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). While the increased risk of VTE associated with use of COCs is well-established, the rates of VTE are even greater during pregnancy, and especially during the postpartum period (see Figure 1). Figure 1: Likelihood of Developing a VTE figure1 2. Liver Disease Elevated Liver Enzymes Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets is contraindicated in females with acute viral hepatitis or severe (decompensated) cirrhosis of liver (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Liver Tumors Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets is contraindicated in females with benign or malignant liver tumors (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Hypertension Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets is contraindicated in females with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Consider the presence of underlying risk factors that may increase the risk of cardiovascular disease or VTE, particularly before initiating a COC for women over 35 years, such as: Hypertension Diabetes Dyslipidemia Obesity 5. Adverse Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Hyperglycemia Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets is contraindicated in diabetic women over age 35, or females who have diabetes with hypertension, nephropathy, retinopathy, neuropathy, other vascular disease, or females with diabetes of > 20 years duration (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Females with hypertriglyceridemia, or a family history thereof, may have an increase in serum triglyceride concentrations when using levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets, which may increase the risk of pancreatitis. Headache Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets is contraindicated in females who have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or have migraine headaches with aura, and in women over age 35 years who have migraine headaches with or without aura (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Malignant Neoplasms Breast Cancer Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets is contraindicated in females who currently have or have had breast cancer because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive [see Contraindications ]. However, some studies report a small increase in the risk of breast cancer among current or recent users (<6 months since last use) and current users with longer duration of COC use (see ADVERSE REACTIONS, Postmarketing Experience). Thromboembolic Disorders and Other Vascular Conditions Stop LEVORA 0.15/30-28 if an arterial or venous thrombotic/thromboembolic event occurs. Stop LEVORA 0.15/30-28 if there is unexplained loss of vision, proptosis, diplopia, papilledema, or retinal vascular lesions and evaluate for retinal vein thrombosis immediately. Discontinue LEVORA 0.15/30-28 during prolonged immobilization. If feasible, stop LEVORA 0.15/30-28 at least four weeks before and through two weeks after major surgery, or other surgeries known to have an elevated risk of thromboembolism. Start LEVORA 0.15/30-28 no earlier than four weeks after delivery in females who are not breast-feeding. Before starting LEVORA 0.15/30-28 evaluate any past medical history or family history of thrombotic or thromboembolic disorders and consider whether the history suggests an inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathy. LEVORA 0.15/30-28 is contraindicated in females with a high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic/thromboembolic diseases (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). LEVORA 0.15/30-28 is contraindicated in women over 35 years of age who smoke (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Figure 1: Likelihood of Developing a VTE Figure 1 2. Liver Disease Elevated Liver Enzymes LEVORA 0.15/30-28 is contraindicated in females with acute viral hepatitis or severe (decompensated) cirrhosis of liver (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Discontinue LEVORA 0.15/30-28 if jaundice develops. Liver Tumors LEVORA 0.15/30-28 is contraindicated in females with benign or malignant liver tumors (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Malignant Neoplasms Breast Cancer LEVORA 0.15/30-28 is contraindicated in women who currently have or have had breast cancer because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive [see Contraindications ]. However, some studies report a small increase in the risk of breast cancer among current or recent users (<6 months since last use) and current users with longer duration of COC use [see Postmarketing Experience ]. Hypertension LEVORA 0.15/30-28 is contraindicated in females with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). For all females, including those with well- controlled hypertension, monitor blood pressure at routine visits and stop LEVORA 0.15/30-28 if blood pressure rises significantly. Consider the presence of underlying risk factors that may increase the risk of cardiovascular disease or VTE, particularly before initiating a COC for women over 35 years, such as: Hypertension Diabetes Dyslipidemia Obesity 6. Discontinue LEVORA 0.15/30-28 prior to starting therapy with the combination drug regimen ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). LEVORA 0.15/30-28 can be restarted approximately 2 weeks following completion of treatment with the combination drug regimen. Females with a history of pregnancy-related cholestasis may be at an increased risk for COC- related cholestasis. Adverse Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Hyperglycemia LEVORA 0.15/30-28 is contraindicated in diabetic women over age 35, or females who have diabetes with hypertension, nephropathy, retinopathy, neuropathy, other vascular disease, or females with diabetes of > 20 years duration (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). LEVORA 0.15/30-28 may decrease glucose tolerance. Carefully monitor prediabetic and diabetic females who are using LEVORA 0.15/30-28. LEVORA 0.15/30-28 may cause adverse lipid changes. Females with hypertriglyceridemia, or a family history thereof, may have an increase in serum triglyceride concentrations when using LEVORA 0.15/30-28, which may increase the risk of pancreatitis. Headache LEVORA 0.15/30-28 is contraindicated in females who have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or have migraine headaches with aura, and in women over age 35 years who have migraine headaches with or without aura (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). If a woman using LEVORA 0.15/30-28 develops new headaches that are recurrent, persistent, or severe, evaluate the cause and discontinue LEVORA 0.15/30-28 if indicated. Consider discontinuation of LEVORA 0.15/30-28 if there is an increased frequency or severity of migraines during COC use (which may be prodromal of a cerebrovascular event). Bleeding Irregularities and Amenorrhea Unscheduled Bleeding and Spotting Females using LEVORA 0.15/30-28 may experience unscheduled (breakthrough or intracyclic) bleeding and spotting, especially during the first three months of use. In two clinical trials of LEVORA (1084 subjects reporting for a total of 8186 treatment cycles and 238 subjects reporting for a total of 1102 treatment cycles), breakthrough bleeding occurred in 6.9% and 8.1% of reported cycles, and spotting occurred in 8.6% and 7.9% of reported cycles over the total study duration, respectively. Amenorrhea and Oligomenorrhea Females who use LEVORA 0.15/30-28 may experience absence of scheduled (withdrawal) bleeding, even if they are not pregnant. In two clinical trials of LEVORA, one including 8186 reported treatment cycles, and the other including 1102 reported treatment cycles, amenorrhea occurred in 1.5% of treatment cycles in each trial. Depression Carefully observe females with a history of depression and discontinue LEVORA 0.15/30-28 if depression recurs to a serious degree. Effect on Binding Globulins The estrogen component of LEVORA 0.15/30-28 may raise the serum concentrations of thyroxine- binding globulin, sex hormone-binding globulin, and cortisol-binding globulin. Chloasma Chloasma may occur with LEVORA 0.15/30-28 use, especially in females with a history of chloasma gravidarum. Advise females with a history of chloasma to avoid exposure to the sun or ultraviolet radiation while using LEVORA 0.15/30-28. Warnings Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular side effects from oral- contraceptive use. This risk increases with age and with heavy smoking (15 or more cigarettes per day) and is quite marked in women over 35 years of age. The use of oral contraceptives is associated with increased risks of several serious conditions including venous and arterial thrombotic and thromboembolic events (such as myocardial infarction, thromboembolism, and stroke), hepatic neoplasia, gallbladder disease, and hypertension, although the risk of serious morbidity or mortality is very small in healthy women without underlying risk factors. The risk of morbidity and mortality increases significantly in the presence of other underlying risk factors such as certain inherited or acquired thrombophilias, hypertension, hyperlipidemias, obesity, and diabetes. The information contained in this package insert is based principally on studies carried out in patients who used oral contraceptives with higher formulations of estrogens and progestogens than those in common use today. The effect of long-term use of the oral contraceptives with lower formulations of both estrogens and progestogens remains to be determined. Case control studies provide a measure of the relative risk of disease, namely, a ratio of the incidence of a disease among oral-contraceptive users to that among nonusers. Cohort studies provide a measure of attributable risk, which is the difference in the incidence of disease between oral-contraceptive users and nonusers. THROMBOEMBOLIC DISORDERS AND OTHER VASCULAR PROBLEMS a. Myocardial Infarction An increased risk of myocardial infarction has been attributed to oral-contraceptive use. The relative risk of heart attack for current oral-contraceptive users has been estimated to be two to six. Smoking in combination with oral-contraceptive use has been shown to contribute substantially to the incidence of myocardial infarctions in women in their mid-thirties or older with smoking accounting for the majority of excess cases. Mortality rates associated with circulatory disease have been shown to increase substantially in smokers over the age of 35 and nonsmokers over the age of 40 (Table III) among women who use oral contraceptives. CIRCULATORY DISEASE MORTALITY RATES PER 100,000 WOMAN YEARS BY AGE, SMOKING STATUS AND ORAL-CONTRACEPTIVE USE Oral contraceptives may compound the effects of well-known risk factors, such as hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemias, age, and obesity. Oral contraceptives have been shown to increase blood pressure among users (see section 10 in "Warnings"). b Thromboembolism An increased risk of thromboembolic and thrombotic disease associated with the use of oral contraceptives is well established. Case control studies have found the relative risk of users compared to nonusers to be 3 for the first episode of superficial venous thrombosis, 4 to 11 for deep-vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism, and 1.5 to 6 for women with predisposing conditions for venous thromboembolic disease. The risk of thromboembolic disease due to oral contraceptives is not related to length of use and disappears after pill use is stopped. A two- to four-fold increase in relative risk of postoperative thromboembolic complications has been reported with the use of oral-contraceptives. If feasible, oral- contraceptives should be discontinued at least four weeks prior to and for two weeks after elective surgery of a type associated with an increase in risk of thromboembolism and during and following prolonged immobilization. Since the immediate post-partum period is also associated with an increased risk of thromboembolism, oral contraceptives should be started no earlier than four to six weeks after delivery in women who elect not to breast-feed, or a midtrimester pregnancy termination. c Cerebrovascular diseases Oral contraceptives have been shown to increase both the relative and attributable risks of cerebrovascular events (thrombotic and hemorrhagic strokes), although, in general, the risk is greatest among older (>35 years), hypertensive women who also smoke. The relative risk of hemorrhagic stroke is reported to be 1.2 for nonsmokers who used oral contraceptives, 2.6 for smokers who did not use oral contraceptives, 7.6 for smokers who used oral contraceptives, 1.8 for normotensive users, and 25.7 for users with severe hypertension. d Dose-related risk of vascular disease from oral contraceptives A positive association has been observed between the amount of estrogen and progestogen in oral contraceptives and the risk of vascular disease. A decline in serum high density lipoproteins (HDL) has been reported with many progestational agents. A decline in serum high-density lipoproteins has been associated with an increase in incidence of ischemic heart disease. New acceptors of oral-contraceptive agents should be started on preparations containing less than 50 mcg of estrogen. e Persistence of risk of vascular disease There are two studies which have shown persistence of risk of vascular disease for ever-users of oral contraceptives. In a study in the United States, the risk of developing myocardial infarction after discontinuing oral contraceptives persists for at least 9 years for women 40 to 49 years who had used oral contraceptives for five or more years, but this increased risk was not demonstrated in other age groups. However, both studies were performed with oral-contraceptive formulations containing 50 micrograms or higher of estrogens. ESTIMATES OF MORTALITY FROM CONTRACEPTIVE USE One study gathered data from a variety of sources which have estimated the mortality rate associated with different methods of contraception at different ages (Table III). The study concluded that with the exception of oral-contraceptive users 35 and older who smoke and 40 and older who do not smoke, mortality associated with all methods of birth control is less than that associated with childbirth. The observation of a possible increase in risk of mortality with age for oral contraceptive users is based on data gathered in the 1970's−but not reported until 1983. However, current clinical practice involves the use of lower estrogen dose formulations combined with careful restriction of oral- contraceptive use to women who do not have the various risk factors listed in this labeling. Because of these changes in practice and, also, because of some limited new data which suggest that the risk of cardiovascular disease with the use of oral contraceptives may now be less than previously observed, the Fertility and Maternal Health Drugs Advisory Committee was asked to review the topic in 1989. The Committee concluded that although cardiovascular-disease risks may be increased with oral- contraceptive use after age 40 in healthy nonsmoking women (even with the newer low-dose formulations), there are greater potential health risks associated with pregnancy in older women and with the alternative surgical and medical procedures which may be necessary if such women do not have access to effective and acceptable means of contraception. Therefore, the Committee recommended that the benefits of oral-contraceptive use by healthy nonsmoking women over 40 may outweigh the possible risks. Table * Deaths are birth related ** Deaths are method related Adapted from H.W. Ory, Family Planning Perspectives, 15 :57-63, 1983. TABLE III—ANNUAL NUMBER OF BIRTH-RELATED OR METHOD-RELATED DEATHS ASSOCIATED WITH CONTROL OF FERTILITY PER 100,000 NONSTERILE WOMEN, BY FERTILITY-CONTROL METHOD ACCORDING TO AGE Method of control and outcome 15 to 19 20 to 24 25 to 29 30 to 34 35 to 39 40 to 44 No fertility-control methods * 7.0 7.4 9.1 14.8 25.7 28.2 Oral contraceptives 0.3 0.5 0.9 1.9 13.8 31.6 nonsmoker ** Oral contraceptives 2.2 3.4 6.6 13.5 51.1 117.2 smoker ** IUD ** 0.8 0.8 1.0 1.0 1.4 1.4 Condom * 1.1 1.6 0.7 0.2 0.3 0.4 Diaphragm/spermicide * 1.9 1.2 1.2 1.3 2.2 2.8 Periodic abstinence * 2.5 1.6 1.6 1.7 2.9 3.6 3 MALIGNANT NEOPLASMS Breast Cancer Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablet is contraindicated in females who currently have or have had breast cancer because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive [see CONTRAINDICATIONS]. However, some studies report a small increase in the risk of breast cancer among current or recent users (<6 months since last use) and also among current users with longer duration of COC use [see ADVERSE REACTIONS]. Cervical Cancer Some studies suggest that oral-contraceptive use has been associated with an increase in the risk of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia in some populations of women. 4 HEPATIC NEOPLASIA Benign hepatic adenomas are associated with oral-contraceptive use, although the incidence of benign tumors is rare in the United States. Studies from Britain have shown an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma in long-term (>8 years) oral-contraceptive users. However, these cancers are extremely rare in the U.S., and the attributable risk (the excess incidence) of liver cancers in oral-contraceptive users approaches less than one per million users. 5 RISK OF LIVER ENZYME ELEVATIONS WITH CONCOMITANT HEPATITIS C TREATMENT During clinical trials with the Hepatitis C combination drug regimen that contains ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, ALT elevations greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN), including some cases greater than 20 times the ULN, were significantly more frequent in women using ethinyl estradiol-containing medications such as COCs. 6 OCULAR LESIONS There have been clinical case reports of retinal thrombosis associated with the use of oral contraceptives. Oral contraceptives should be discontinued if there is unexplained partial or complete loss of vision; onset of proptosis or diplopia; papilledema: or retinal vascular lesions. 7 ORAL-CONTRACEPTIVE USE BEFORE OR DURING EARLY PREGNANCY Extensive epidemiological studies have revealed no increased risk of birth defects in women who have used oral contraceptives prior to pregnancy. Studies also do not suggest a teratogenic effect, particularly in so far as cardiac anomalies and limb-reduction defects are concerned, when taken inadvertently during early pregnancy. It is recommended that for any patient who has missed two consecutive periods, pregnancy should be ruled out before continuing oral-contraceptive use. If the patient has not adhered to the prescribed schedule, the possibility of pregnancy should be considered at the time of the first missed period. Oral- contraceptive use should be discontinued if pregnancy is confirmed. 8 GALLBLADDER DISEASE Earlier studies have reported an increased lifetime relative risk of gallbladder surgery in users of oral contraceptives and estrogens. More recent studies, however, have shown that the relative risk of developing gallbladder disease among oral-contraceptive users may be minimal. The recent findings of minimal risk may be related to the use of oral-contraceptive formulations containing lower hormonal doses of estrogens and progestogens. 9 CARBOHYDRATE AND LIPID METABOLIC EFFECTS Oral contraceptives have been shown to cause glucose intolerance in a significant percentage of users. Oral contraceptives containing greater than 75 micrograms of estrogens cause hyperinsulinism, while lower doses of estrogen cause less glucose intolerance. As discussed earlier (see "Warnings," 1a. and 1d.), changes in serum triglycerides and lipoprotein levels have been reported in oral-contraceptive users. 10 ELEVATED BLOOD PRESSURE An increase in blood pressure has been reported in women taking oral contraceptives, and this increase is more likely in older oral-contraceptive users and with continued use. Women with a history of hypertension or hypertension-related diseases, or renal disease, should be encouraged to use another method of contraception. If women with hypertension elect to use oral contraceptives, they should be monitored closely, and if significant elevation of blood pressure occurs, oral contraceptives should be discontinued. For most women, elevated blood pressure will return to normal after stopping oral contraceptives, and there is no difference in the occurrence of hypertension among ever- and never- users. 11 HEADACHE The onset or exacerbation of migraine or development of headache with a new pattern that is recurrent, persistent, or severe requires discontinuation of oral contraceptives and evaluation of the cause. 12 BLEEDING IRREGULARITIES Breakthrough bleeding and spotting are sometimes encountered in patients on oral contraceptives, especially during the first three months of use. The type and dose of progestogen may be important. Nonhormonal causes should be considered and adequate diagnostic measures taken to rule out malignancy or pregnancy in the event of breakthrough bleeding, as in the case of any abnormal vaginal bleeding. If pathology has been excluded, time or a change to another formulation may solve the problem. In the event of amenorrhea, pregnancy should be ruled out. Some women may encounter post-pill amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea, especially when such a condition was preexistent. Image 02
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Iclevia is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions: A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases. Examples include females who are known to: Smoke, if over age 35 [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Have current or history of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Have cerebrovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Have coronary artery disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart (for example, subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease, or atrial fibrillation) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Have uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Have diabetes mellitus and are over age of 35, diabetes mellitus with hypertension or vascular disease or other end-organ damage, or diabetes mellitus of >20 years duration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms, migraine headaches with aura, or over age 35 with any migraine headaches [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Current diagnosis of, or history of breast cancer, which may be hormone sensitive [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ]. Liver tumors, acute viral hepatitis, or severe (decompensated) cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) Liver tumors or liver disease, acute viral hepatitis or decompensated cirrhosis ( 4 ) Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) Breast cancer ( 4 ) Co-administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir. ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Combination oral contraceptives should not be used in women with any of the following conditions: • Thrombophlebitis or thromboembolic disorders • History of deep-vein thrombophlebitis or thromboembolic disorders • Cerebrovascular or coronary artery disease (current or past history) • Valvular heart disease with thrombogenic complications • Thrombogenic rhythm disorders • Hereditary or acquired thrombophilias • Major surgery with prolonged immobilization • Diabetes with vascular involvement • Headaches with focal neurological symptoms such as aura • Uncontrolled hypertension • Current diagnosis of, or history of, breast cancer, which may be hormone-sensitive • Carcinoma of the endometrium or other known or suspected estrogen-dependent neoplasia Undiagnosed abnormal genital bleeding • Cholestatic jaundice of pregnancy or jaundice with prior pill use • Hepatic adenomas or carcinomas, or active liver disease • Known or suspected pregnancy • Hypersensitivity to any of the components of DOLISHALE • Are receiving Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for ALT elevations (see Warnings, RISK OF LIVER ENZYME ELEVATIONS WITH CONCOMITANT HEPATITIS C TREATMENT ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets, USP and ferrous bisglycinate tablets are contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions: A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic disease. Examples include women who are known to: Smoke, if over age 35 [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Have deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism, now or in the past [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Have cerebrovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Have coronary artery disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart (for example, subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease, or atrial fibrillation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Have uncontrolled hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . Have diabetes mellitus with vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] . Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or have migraine headaches with aura [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . Women over age 35 with any migraine headaches [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . Liver tumors, benign or malignant, or liver disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] . Pregnancy, because there is no reason to use COCs during pregnancy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 )] . Current diagnosis of, or history of, breast cancer, which may be hormone-sensitive [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )] . Hypersensitivity to any of the components. Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) Liver tumors or liver disease ( 4 ) Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) Pregnancy ( 4 ) Breast cancer ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity of any of the components ( 4 ) Co-administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ashlyna is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions: • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases. Examples include females who are known to: o Smoke, if over age 35 [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. o Have current or history of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. o Have cerebrovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. o Have coronary artery disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. o Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart (for example, subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease, or atrial fibrillation) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. o Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. o Have uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. o Have diabetes mellitus and are over age 35, diabetes mellitus with hypertension or with vascular disease or other end-organ damage, or diabetes mellitus of > 20 years duration [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )]. o Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms, migraine headaches with aura, or over age 35 with any migraine headaches [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )]. • Current diagnosis of, or history of, breast cancer, which may be hormone sensitive [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )]. • Liver tumors, acute viral hepatitis, or severe (decompensated) cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )]. • Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) • Breast cancer ( 4 ) • Liver tumors or liver disease, acute viral hepatitis or decompensated cirrhosis ( 4 ) • Co-administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Introvale is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions: A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases. Examples include females who are known to: Smoke, if over age 35 [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Have current or history of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Have cerebrovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Have coronary artery disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart (for example, subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease, or atrial fibrillation) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Have uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Have diabetes mellitus and are over age of 35, diabetes mellitus with hypertension or vascular disease or other end-organ damage, or diabetes mellitus of > 20 years duration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms, migraine headaches with aura, or over age 35 with any migraine headaches [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . Liver tumors, acute viral hepatitis, or severe (decompensated) cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) Liver tumors or liver disease, acute viral hepatitis or decompensated cirrhosis ( 4 ) Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) Breast cancer ( 4 ) Co-administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir. CONTRAINDICATIONS Levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets are contraindicated in females who are known to have the following conditions: • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases. Examples include women who are known to: o Smoke, if over age 35 [see BOXED WARNING and WARNINGS (1) ]. o Have current or history of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism [see WARNINGS (1) ]. o Have cerebrovascular disease [see WARNINGS (1) ]. o Have coronary artery disease [see WARNINGS (1) ]. o Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart (for example, subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease, or atrial fibrillation) [see WARNINGS (1) ]. o Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [see WARNINGS (1) ]. o Have uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [see WARNINGS (3) ]. o Have diabetes mellitus and are over age 35, diabetes mellitus with hypertension or vascular disease or other end-organ damage, or diabetes mellitus of >20 years duration [see WARNINGS (7) ]. o Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms, migraine headaches with aura, or over age 35 with any migraine headaches [see WARNINGS (8) ]. • Current diagnosis of, or history of, breast cancer, which may be hormone-sensitive. • Liver tumors, acute viral hepatitis, or severe (decompensated) cirrhosis [see WARNINGS (2) ]. • Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for ALT elevations [see WARNINGS (5) ]. • Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [see WARNINGS (9) ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding ( 4 ) Breast cancer ( 4 ) Liver tumors or liver disease, acute viral hepatitis or decompensated cirrhosis ( 4 ) Co-administration with Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, ( 4 ) LoJaimiess is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions: A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases. Examples include females who are known to: o Smoke, if over age 35 [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1 )] o Have current or history of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] o Have cerebrovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] o Have coronary artery disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 )] o Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart (for example, subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease, or atrial fibrillation) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] o Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 )] o Have uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] o Have diabetes mellitus and are over age 35, diabetes mellitus with hypertension or with vascular disease or other end-organ damage, or diabetes mellitus of > 20 years duration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7 )] o Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms, migraine headaches with aura, or over age 35 with any migraine headaches [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] Current diagnosis of, or history of, breast cancer, which may be hormone sensitive [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] Liver tumors, acute viral hepatitis, or severe (decompensated) cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 )] Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8 )] Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . CONTRAINDICATIONS Ayuna is contraindicated in females who are known to have the following conditions: A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases. Examples include women who are known to: Smoke, if over age 35 [see BOXED WARNING and WARNINGS (1) ]. Have current or history of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism [see WARNINGS (1) ] . Have cerebrovascular disease [see WARNINGS (1) ] . Have coronary artery disease [see WARNINGS (1) ] . Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart (for example, subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease, or atrial fibrillation) [see WARNINGS (1) ] . Have inherited or acquired hypercoagulopathies [see WARNINGS (1) ] . Have uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [see WARNINGS (3) ] . Have diabetes mellitus and are over age 35, diabetes mellitus with hypertension or vascular disease or other end-organ damage, or diabetes mellitus of >20 years duration [see WARNINGS (7) ] . Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms, migraine headaches with aura, or over age 35 with any migraine headaches [see WARNINGS (8) ]. Current diagnosis of, or history of, breast cancer, which may be hormone-sensitive. Liver tumors, acute viral hepatitis, or severe (decompensated) cirrhosis [see WARNINGS (2) ] . Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for ALT elevations [see WARNINGS (5) ] . Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [see WARNINGS (9) ] . CONTRAINDICATIONS LEVORA 0.15/30-28 is contraindicated in females who are known to have the following conditions: A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases. Have uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease [see WARNINGS (4) ] . Have diabetes mellitus and are over age 35, diabetes mellitus with hypertension or vascular disease or other end-organ damage, or diabetes mellitus of >20 years duration [see WARNINGS (8) ] . Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms, migraine headaches with aura, or over age 35 with any migraine headaches [see WARNINGS (9) ] . Use of Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for ALT elevations [see WARNINGS (6) ] . Undiagnosed abnormal uterine bleeding [see WARNINGS (10) ] . Contraindications Levonorgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol Tablet is contraindicated in females who are known to have or develop the following conditions: Thrombophlebitis or thromboembolic disorders A past history of deep-vein-thrombophlebitis or thromboembolic disorders. Cerebral-vascular or coronary-artery disease. Current diagnosis or history of breast cancer, which may be hormone sensitive. Undiagnosed abnormal genital bleeding. Cholestatic jaundice of pregnancy or jaundice with prior pill use. Hepatic adenomas and carcinomas. Known or suspected pregnancy. Women who are receiving Hepatitis C drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to the potential for alanine aminotransferase (ALT) elevations (see WARNINGS, RISK OF LIVER ENZYME ELEVATIONS WITH CONCOMITANT HEPATITIS C TREATMENT ).
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The sections below provide information on substances for which data on drug interactions with COCs are available. There is little information available about the clinical effect of most drug interactions that may affect COCs. However, based on the known pharmacokinetic effects of these drugs, clinical strategies to minimize any potential adverse effect on contraceptive effectiveness or safety are suggested. Consult the approved product labeling of all concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with COCs or the potential for metabolic enzyme or transporter system alterations. No drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets. Enzyme inducers (e.g.CYP3A4): May decrease the effectiveness of Iclevia or increase breakthrough bleeding. Counsel patients to use a back-up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with Iclevia. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances decreasing the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminishing the efficacy of COCs: Table 5 includes substances that demonstrated an important drug interaction with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets. Table 5: Significant Drug Interactions Involving Substances That Affect COCs a Induction potency of St. John’s wort may vary widely based on preparation. Metabolic Enzyme Inducers Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with metabolic enzyme inducers may decrease the plasma concentrations of the estrogen and/or progestin component of COCs. Decreased exposure of the estrogen and/or progestin component of COCs may potentially diminish the effectiveness of COCs and may lead to contraceptive failure or an increase in breakthrough bleeding. Prevention or management Counsel females to use an alternative method of contraception or a backup method when enzyme inducers are used with COCs. Continue backup contraception for 28 days after discontinuing the enzyme inducer to maintain contraceptive reliability. Examples Aprepitant, barbiturates, bosentan, carbamazepine, efavirenz, felbamate, griseofulvin, oxcarbazepine, phenytoin, rifampin, rifabutin, rufinamide, topiramate, products containing St. John’s wort a , and certain protease inhibitors (see separate section on protease inhibitors below). Colesevelam Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with colesevelam significantly decreases systemic exposure of ethinyl estradiol [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Decreased exposure of the estrogen component of COCs may potentially reduce contraceptive efficacy or result in an increase in breakthrough bleeding, depending on the strength of ethinyl estradiol in the COC. Prevention or management Administer 4 or more hours apart to attenuate this drug interaction. Substances increasing the systemic exposure of COCs: Co-administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and certain COCs containing ethinyl estradiol (EE) increase AUC values for EE by approximately 20 to 25%. Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase systemic exposure of EE possibly by inhibition of conjugation. CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole, voriconazole, fluconazole, grapefruit juice, or ketoconazole may increase systemic exposure of estrogen and/or progestin component of COCs. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/ Hepatitis C virus (HCV) protease inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors: Significant decreases in systemic exposure of the estrogen and/or progestin have been noted when COCs are co-administered with some HIV protease inhibitors (e.g., nelfinavir, ritonavir, darunavir/ritonavir, (fos)amprenavir/ritonavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, and tipranavir/ritonavir] or some HCV protease inhibitors (e.g. boceprevir and telaprevir) and some non-nucleosidase reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g. nevirapine) In contrast, significant increases in systemic exposure of the estrogen and/or progestin have been noted when COCs are co-administered with certain other HIV protease inhibitors (e.g. indinavir and atazanavir/ritonavir) and with other non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g. etravirine). 7.2 Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs Table 6 provides significant drug interaction information for drugs co-administered with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets. Table 6: Significant Drug Interaction Information for Drugs Co-Administered With COCs Lamotrigine Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with lamotrigine may significantly decrease systemic exposure of lamotrigine due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Decreased systemic exposure of lamotrigine may reduce seizure control. Prevention or management Dose adjustment may be necessary. Consult the approved product labeling for lamotrigine. Thyroid Hormone Replacement Therapy or Corticosteroid Replacement Therapy Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with thyroid hormone replacement therapy or corticosteroid replacement therapy may increase systemic exposure of thyroid-binding and cortisol-binding globulin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . Prevention or management The dose of replacement thyroid hormone or cortisol therapy may need to be increased. Consult the approved product labeling for the therapy in use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . Other Drugs Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs may decrease systemic exposure of acetaminophen, morphine, salicylic acid, and temazepam. Concomitant use with ethinyl estradiol-containing COCs may increase systemic exposure of other drugs (e.g., cyclosporine, prednisolone, theophylline, tizanidine, and voriconazole). Prevention or management The dosage of drugs that can be affected by this interaction may need to be increased. Consult the approved product labeling for the concomitantly used drug. 7.3 Concomitant Use with Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) Combination Therapy-Liver Enzyme Elevation Co-administration of Iclevia with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir is contraindicated due to potential for ALT elevations [see Warning and Precautions (5.3) ]. Co-administration of Iclevia and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir is not recommended due to potential for ALT elevations. 7.4 Effect on Laboratory Tests The use of COCs may influence the results of certain laboratory tests, such as coagulation factors, lipids, glucose tolerance, and binding proteins. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Consult the labeling of concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations. Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, including CYP3A4, may decrease the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding. Counsel patients to use a back-up method or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with COCs.( 7.1 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances decreasing the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminishing the efficacy of COCs: Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, including cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4), may decrease the plasma concentrations of COCs and potentially diminish the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding. Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include phenytoin, barbiturates, carbamazepine, bosentan, felbamate, griseofulvin, oxcarbazepine, rifampicin, topiramate, rifabutin, rufinamide, aprepitant, and products containing St. John’s wort. Interactions between hormonal contraceptives and other drugs may lead to breakthrough bleeding and/or contraceptive failure. Counsel women to use an alternative method of contraception or a back-up method when enzyme inducers are used with COCs, and to continue back-up contraception for 28 days after discontinuing the enzyme inducer to ensure contraceptive reliability. Colesevelam: Colesevelam, a bile acid sequestrant, given together with a COC, has been shown to significantly decrease the AUC of ethinyl estradiol (EE). The drug interaction between the contraceptive and colesevelam was decreased when the two drug products were given 4 hours apart. Substances increasing the plasma concentrations of COCs: Co-administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and certain COCs containing EE increase AUC values for EE by approximately 20-25%. Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase plasma EE concentrations, possibly by inhibition of conjugation. CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as itraconazole, voriconazole, fluconazole, grapefruit juice, or ketoconazole may increase plasma hormone concentrations. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/ Hepatitis C virus (HCV) protease inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors: Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma concentrations of estrogen and/or progestin have been noted in some cases of co-administration with HIV/HCV protease inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (decrease [e.g., nelfinavir, ritonavir, darunavir/ritonavir, (fos)amprenavir/ritonavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, tipranavir/ritonavir, boceprevir, telaprevir, nevirapine and efavirenz] or increase [e.g., indinavir, atazanavir/ritonavir and etravirine]). 7.2 Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs Combined oral contraceptives containing EE may inhibit the metabolism of other compounds (e.g., cyclosporine, prednisolone, theophylline, tizanidine, and voriconazole) and increase their plasma concentrations. Combined oral contraceptives have been shown to decrease plasma concentrations of acetaminophen, clofibric acid, morphine, salicylic acid, temazepam and lamotrigine. Significant decrease in plasma concentration of lamotrigine has been shown, likely due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation. This may reduce seizure control; therefore, dosage adjustments of lamotrigine may be necessary. Women on thyroid hormone replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone because the serum concentration of thyroid-binding globulin increases with use of COCs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] . 7.3 Concomitant Use with HCV Combination Therapy - Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not co-administer levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets and ferrous bisglycinate tablets with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir/ paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, due to potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . 7.4 Interactions with Laboratory Tests The use of contraceptive steroids may influence the results of certain laboratory tests, such as coagulation factors, lipids, glucose tolerance, and binding proteins. No drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets and ethinyl estradiol tablets. Enzyme inducers (e.g., CYP3A4): May decrease the effectiveness of Ashlyna or increase breakthrough bleeding. Counsel patients to use a back-up method or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with Ashlyna. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances Decreasing the Plasma Concentrations of COCs and Potentially Diminishing the Efficacy of COCs: Table 4 includes substances that demonstrated an important drug interaction with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets and ethinyl estradiol tablets. Table 4: Significant Drug Interactions Involving Substances That Affect COCs Metabolic Enzyme Inducers Clinical effect • Concomitant use of COCs with metabolic enzyme inducers may decrease the plasma concentrations of the estrogen and/or progestin component of COCs. • Decreased exposure of the estrogen and/or progestin component of COCs may potentially diminish the effectiveness of COCs and may lead to contraceptive failure or an increase in breakthrough bleeding. Prevention or management • Counsel females to use an alternative method of contraception or a backup method when enzyme inducers are used with COCs. • Continue backup contraception for 28 days after discontinuing the enzyme inducer to maintain contraceptive reliability. Colesevelam Clinical effect • Concomitant use of COCs with colesevelam significantly decreases systemic exposure of ethinyl estradiol. • Decreased exposure of the estrogen component of COCs may potentially reduce contraceptive efficacy or result in an increase in breakthrough bleeding, depending on the strength of ethinyl estradiol in the CHC. a Induction potency of St. Substances increasing the systemic exposure of COCs: Co-administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and COCs containing ethinyl estradiol increase systemic exposure of ethinyl estradiol by approximately 20 to 25 percent. Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase systemic exposure of ethinyl estradiol, possibly by inhibition of conjugation. CYP3A inhibitors such as itraconazole, voriconazole, fluconazole, grapefruit juice, or ketoconazole may increase systemic exposure of the estrogen and/or progestin component of COCs. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/hepatitis C virus (HCV) protease inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors: Significant decreases in systemic exposure of the estrogen and/or progestin have been noted when COCs are co-administered with some HIV protease inhibitors (e.g., nelfinavir, ritonavir, darunavir/ritonavir, (fos)amprenavir/ritonavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, and tipranavir/ritonavir), some HCV protease inhibitors (e.g., boceprevir and telaprevir), and some non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g., nevirapine). In contrast, significant increases in systemic exposure of the estrogen and/or progestin have been noted when COCs are co-administered with certain other HIV protease inhibitors (e.g., indinavir and atazanavir/ritonavir) and with other non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g., etravirine). 7.2 Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs Table 5 provides significant drug interaction information for drugs co-administered with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets and ethinyl estradiol tablets. Table 5: Significant Drug Interaction Information for Drugs Co-Administered With COCs Lamotrigine Clinical effect • Concomitant use of COCs with lamotrigine may significantly decrease systemic exposure of lamotrigine due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation. • Decreased systemic exposure of lamotrigine may reduce seizure control. Thyroid Hormone Replacement Therapy or Corticosteroid Replacement Therapy Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with thyroid hormone replacement therapy or corticosteroid replacement therapy may increase systemic exposure of thyroid-binding and cortisol-binding globulin [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] . Consult the approved product labeling for the therapy in use [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] . 7.3 Concomitant Use with Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Co-administration of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets and ethinyl estradiol tablets with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir is contraindicated due to potential for ALT elevations [see Warning and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . Co-administration of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets and ethinyl estradiol tablets and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir is not recommended due to potential for ALT elevations. Enzyme inducers (e.g., CYP3A4): May decrease the effectiveness of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets or increase breakthrough bleeding. Counsel patients to use a back-up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets. Table 5: Significant Drug Interactions Involving Substances That Affect COCs Metabolic Enzyme Inducers Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with metabolic enzyme inducers may decrease the plasma concentrations of the estrogen and/or progestin component of COCs. Substances increasing the systemic exposure of COCs: Co-administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and certain COCs containing ethinyl estradiol (EE) increase AUC values for EE by approximately 20-25%. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/ Hepatitis C virus (HCV) protease inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors: Significant decreases in systemic exposure of the estrogen and/or progestin have been noted when COCs are co-administered with some HIV protease inhibitors (e.g., nelfinavir, ritonavir, darunavir/ritonavir, (fos)amprenavir/ritonavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, and tipranavir/ritonavir] or some HCV protease inhibitors (e.g., boceprevir and telaprevir) and some non-nucleosidase reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g., nevirapine). 7.3 Concomitant Use with Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Co-administration of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir is contraindicated due to potential for ALT elevations [see Warning and Precautions (5.3) ] . Co-administration of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir is not recommended due to potential for ALT elevations. 7.4 Interactions with Laboratory Tests The use of COCs may influence the results of certain laboratory tests, such as coagulation factors, lipids, glucose tolerance, and binding proteins. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Enzyme inducers (e.g., CYP3A4): May decrease the effectiveness of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets and ethinyl estradiol tablets or increase breakthrough bleeding. Counsel patients to use a back-up method or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets and ethinyl estradiol tablets. ( 7.1 ) The sections below provide information on substances for which data on drug interactions with COCs are available. No formal drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets and ethinyl estradiol tablets. 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances Decreasing the Plasma Concentrations of COCs and Potentially Diminishing the Efficacy of COCs: Table 4 includes substances that demonstrated an important drug interaction with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets and ethinyl estradiol tablets. Table 4: Significant Drug Interactions Involving Substances That Affect COCs Metabolic Enzyme Inducers Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with metabolic enzyme inducers may decrease the plasma concentrations of the estrogen and/or progestin component of COCs. Colesevelam Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with colesevelam significantly decreases systemic exposure of ethinyl estradiol. Table 5: Significant Drug Interaction Information for Drugs Co-Administered With COCs Lamotrigine Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with lamotrigine may significantly decrease systemic exposure of lamotrigine due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation. Thyroid Hormone Replacement Therapy or Corticosteroid Replacement Therapy Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with thyroid hormone replacement therapy or corticosteroid replacement therapy may increase systemic exposure of thyroid-binding and cortisol-binding globulin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. Consult the approved product labeling for the therapy in use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. 7.3 Concomitant Use with Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) Combination Therapy – Liver Enzyme Elevation Co-administration of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets and ethinyl estradiol tablets with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir is contraindicated due to potential for ALT elevations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. 4. Drug Interactions The sections below provide information on substances for which data on drug interactions with COCs are available. Consult the approved product labeling of all concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with COCs or the potential for metabolic enzyme or transporter system alterations . 4.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances Decreasing the Plasma Concentrations of COCs and Potentially Diminishing the Efficacy of COCs: Table 1 includes substances that demonstrated an important drug interaction with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets. Table 1: Significant Drug Interactions Involving Substances That Affect COCs Metabolic Enzyme Inducers Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with metabolic enzyme inducers may decrease the plasma concentrations of the estrogen and/or progestin component of COCs. CYP3A inhibitors such as itraconazole, voriconazole, fluconazole, grapefruit juice, 7 or ketoconazole may increase systemic exposure of the estrogen and/or progestin component of COCs. 4.2 Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs Table 2 provides significant drug interaction information for drugs co-administered with levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets. Table 2: Significant Drug Interaction Information for Drugs Co-Administered With COCs Lamotrigine Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with lamotrigine may significantly decrease systemic exposure of lamotrigine due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation. Thyroid Hormone Replacement Therapy or Corticosteroid Replacement Therapy Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with thyroid hormone replacement therapy or corticosteroid replacement therapy may increase systemic exposure of thyroid-binding and cortisol-binding globulin (see Warnings, EFFECT ON BINDING GLOBULINS). Consult the approved product labeling for the therapy in use (see Warnings, EFFECT ON BINDING GLOBULINS). 4.3 Concomitant Use with Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) Combination Therapy - Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not co-administer levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol tablets with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, [see Warnings (5)], and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir due to potential for ALT elevations . 4.4 Effect on Laboratory Tests The use of COCs may influence the results of certain laboratory tests, such as coagulation factors, lipids, glucose tolerance, and binding proteins. 5. Carcinogenesis See WARNINGS (11) . No drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with LEVORA 0.15/30-28. 4.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Combined Oral Contraceptives Substances Decreasing the Plasma Concentrations of COCs and Potentially Diminishing the Efficacy of COCs Table 1 includes substances that demonstrated an important drug interaction with LEVORA 0.15/30-28. John's wort Induction potency of St. John's wort may vary widely based on preparation. , and certain protease inhibitors (see separate section on protease inhibitors below). Substances increasing the systemic exposure of COCs Co-administration of atorvastatin or rosuvastatin and COCs containing ethinyl estradiol increase systemic exposure of ethinyl estradiol by approximately 20 to 25 percent. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/hepatitis C virus (HCV) protease inhibitors and non­ nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors Significant decreases in systemic exposure of the estrogen and/or progestin have been noted when COCs are co-administered with some HIV protease inhibitors (e.g., nelfinavir, ritonavir, darunavir/ritonavir, (fos)amprenavir/ritonavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, and tipranavir/ritonavir), some HCV protease inhibitors (e.g., boceprevir and telaprevir), and some non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g., nevirapine). 4.2 Effects of Combined Oral Contraceptives on Other Drugs Table 2 provides significant drug interaction information for drugs co-administered with LEVORA 0.15/30-28. Thyroid Hormone Replacement Therapy or Corticosteroid Replacement Therapy Clinical effect Concomitant use of COCs with thyroid hormone replacement therapy or corticosteroid replacement therapy may increase systemic exposure of thyroid- binding and cortisol-binding globulin (see Warnings, EFFECT ON BINDING GLOBULINS ). Consult the approved product labeling for the therapy in use (see Warnings, EFFECT ON BINDING GLOBULINS ). Concomitant use with ethinyl estradiol­- containing COCs may increase systemic exposure of other drugs (e.g., cyclosporine, prednisolone, theophylline, tizanidine, and voriconazole). 4.3 Concomitant Use with Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) Combination Therapy-Liver Enzyme Elevation Do not co-administer LEVORA 0.15/30-28 with HCV drug combinations containing ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, with or without dasabuvir, [see WARNINGS (6) ], and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir due to potential for ALT elevations.

=== PSEUDOEPHEDRINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Nasal decongestant Purpose Expectorant and Nasal Decongestant Purposes Expectorant Nasal Decongestant Purpose Antihistamine Nasal Decongestant Purposes Pain reliever/fever reducer Nasal decongestant
Indications: Uses temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to the common cold, hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure Uses helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to: common cold hay fever upper respiratory allergies temporarily restores freer breathing through the nose promotes nasal and/or sinus drainage temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure INDICATIONS AND USAGE Brompheniramine maleate, pseudoephedrine hydrochloride, and dextromethorphan hydrobromide syrup is indicated for relief of coughs and upper respiratory symptoms, including nasal congestion, associated with allergy or the common cold. Uses • helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to: • common cold • hay fever • upper respiratory allergies • temporarily restores freer breathing through the nose • promotes nasal and/or sinus drainage • temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: runny nose sneezing itchy, watery eyes itching of the nose or throat temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to the common cold, hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies reduces swelling of nasal passages temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure temporarily restores freer breathing through the nose INDICATIONS & USAGE For relief of coughs and upper respiratory symptoms, including nasal congestion, associated with allergy or the common cold. INDICATIONS AND USAGE For relief of coughs and upper respiratory symptoms, including nasal congestion, associated with allergy or the common cold. Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms associated with the common cold or flu: headache sinus pressure nasal congestion minor body aches and pains fever Use(s) temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: runny nose sneezing itchy, watery eyes itching of the nose or throat temporarily relives nasal congestion due to the common cold, hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies reduces swelling of nasal passages temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure temporarily restores freer breathing through the nose
Dosage: Directions adults and children 12 years and over take 1 tablet every 12 hours do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours children under 12 years do not use this product in children under 12 years of age Directions do not crush, chew, or break tablet take with a full glass of water this product can be administered without regard for timing of meals adults and children 12 years and older: 2 tablets every 12 hours; not more than 4 tablets in 24 hours children under 12 years of age: do not use DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and over: 10 mL (2 teaspoonfuls) every 4 hours. Children 6 to under 12 years of age: 5 mL (1 teaspoonful) every 4 hours. Children 2 to under 6 years of age: 2.5 mL (½ teaspoonful) every 4 hours. Infants 6 months to under 2 years of age: Dosage to be established by a physician. Do not exceed 6 doses during a 24-hour period. Directions • do not crush, chew, or break tablet • take with a full glass of water • this product can be administered without regard for timing of meals • adults and children 12 years and older: 2 tablets every 12 hours; not more than 4 tablets in 24 hours • children under 12 years of age: do not use Directions do not divide, crush, chew or dissolve the tablet; swallow tablet whole adults and children 12 years of age and over take 1 tablet with a glass of water every 12 hours on an empty stomach; do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours children under 12 years of age do not use adults 65 years of age and older ask a doctor consumers with kidney disease ask a doctor DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and over: 10 mL (2 teaspoonfuls) every 4 hours. Directions ● do not take more than directed ● the smallest effective dose should be used ● adults and children 12 years of age and over: ● take 1 capsule every 4 to 6 hours while symptoms persist. If symptoms do not respond to 1 capsule, 2 capsules may be used. ● do not use more than 6 capsules in any 24-hour period unless directed by a doctor ● children under 12 years of age: do not use Other information each capsule contains: potassium 20 mg store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F). Avoid excessive heat above 40°C (104°F). read all warnings and directions before use. Keep carton.
Warnings: Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product. Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease high blood pressure thyroid disease diabetes trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occur symptoms do not improve within 7 days or occur with a fever If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222) Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease high blood pressure thyroid disease diabetes trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema cough accompanied by too much phlegm (mucus) When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask doctor if you get nervous, dizzy, or sleepless symptoms do not get better within 7 days, come back or occur with a fever, rash, or persistent headache. These could be signs of a serious illness. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). WARNINGS Especially in infants and small children, antihistamines in overdosage may cause hallucinations, convulsions, and death. Antihistamines may diminish mental alertness. In the young child, they may produce excitation. Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product. Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema • cough accompanied by too much phlegm (mucus) When using this product • do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • you get nervous, dizzy, or sleepless • symptoms do not get better within 7 days, come back or occur with a fever, rash, or persistent headache. Warnings Warnings Allergy alert: Ibuprofen may cause a severe allergic reaction, especially in people allergic to aspirin. Symptoms may include: hives facial swelling asthma (wheezing) shock skin reddening rash blisters If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Stomach bleeding warning: This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you: are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs [aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others] have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product take more or for a longer time than directed Heart attack and stroke warning NSAIDs, except aspirin, increase the risk of heart attack, heart failure, and stroke. These can be fatal. The risk is higher if you use more than directed or for longer than directed. Warnings Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. if you have difficulty swallowing Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease thyroid disease glaucoma high blood pressure diabetes trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland kidney disease. Your doctor should determine if you need a different dose. When using this product do not take more than directed do not take at the same time as aluminum or magnesium antacids do not take with fruit juices (see Directions) the tablet coating may be seen in the stool (this is normal). Continue to take as directed (see Directions). Stop use and ask doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs. Seek medical help right away. symptoms do not improve within 7 days or are accompanied by a fever you get nervous, dizzy, or sleepless If pregnant or breast-feeding ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients. Do not use in the newborn, in premature infants, in nursing mothers, or in patients with severe hypertension or severe coronary artery disease. Do not use dextromethorphan in patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) (see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ). Antihistamines should not be used to treat lower respiratory tract conditions including asthma. Do not use dextromethorphan in patients receiving monoamine oxidase (MAOI) inhibitors (see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ). Do not use dextromethorphan in patients receiving monoamine oxidase (MAOI) inhibitors ( see PRECAUTIONS – Drug Interactions ).
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) Hyperpyrexia, hypotension, and death have been reported coincident with the coadministration of MAOI and products containing dextromethorphan. In addition, MAOI prolong and intensify the anticholinergic (drying) effects of antihistamines and may enhance the effect of pseudoephedrine. Concomitant administration of brompheniramine maleate, pseudoephedrine hydrochloride, and dextromethorphan hydrobromide syrup and MAOI should be avoided (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Central nervous system (CNS) depressants Antihistamines have additive effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants (hypnotics, sedatives, tranquilizers, antianxiety agents, etc.). Antihypertensive drugs Sympathomimetic may reduce the effects of antihypertensive drugs. DRUG INTERACTIONS Monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors Hyperpyrexia, hypotension, and death have been reported coincident with the coadministration of MAO inhibitors and products containing dextromethorphan. In addition, MAO inhibitors prolong and intensify the anticholinergic (drying) effects of antihistamines and may enhance the effect of pseudoephedrine. Concomitant administration of brompheniramine maleate, pseudoephedrine hydrochloride and dextromethorphan hydrobromide syrup and MAO inhibitors should be avoided (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Concomitant administration of Brompheniramine Maleate, Pseudoephedrine Hydrochloride and Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide Oral Syrup and MAO inhibitors should be avoided ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ).

=== TELMISARTAN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Telmisartan tablets, USP are an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) indicated for: Treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. ( 1.1 ) Cardiovascular (CV) risk reduction in patients unable to take ACE inhibitors ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Hypertension Telmisartan tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including the class to which this drug principally belongs. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program's Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. Telmisartan may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1.2 Cardiovascular Risk Reduction Telmisartan tablets, USP are indicated for reduction of the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, or death from cardiovascular causes in patients 55 years of age or older at high risk of developing major cardiovascular events who are unable to take ACE inhibitors. High risk for cardiovascular events can be evidenced by a history of coronary artery disease, peripheral arterial disease, stroke, transient ischemic attack, or high-risk diabetes (insulin-dependent or non-insulin dependent) with evidence of end-organ damage [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . Telmisartan can be used in addition to other needed treatment (such as antihypertensive, antiplatelet or lipid-lowering therapy) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. Studies of telmisartan in this setting do not exclude the possibility that telmisartan may not preserve a meaningful fraction of the effect of the ACE inhibitor to which it was compared. Consider using the ACE inhibitor first, and, if it is stopped for cough only, consider re-trying the ACE inhibitor after the cough resolves. Use of telmisartan with an ACE inhibitor is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including the classes to which this drug principally belongs. There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. These considerations may guide selection of therapy [see Clinical Studies (14)]. Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not indicated for initial therapy for the treatment of hypertension [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)]. Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are combination of an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and a thiazide diuretic indicated for the treatment of hypertension, alone or with other antihypertensive agents, to lower blood pressure. (1) Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not indicated for initial therapy (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Telmisartan and amlodipine tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, alone or with other antihypertensive agents to lower blood pressure. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including angiotensin II receptor blockers and dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers. There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with telmisartan and amlodipine tablets. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Telmisartan and amlodipine tablets may also be used as initial therapy in patients who are likely to need multiple drugs to achieve their blood pressure goals. Base the choice of telmisartan and amlodipine tablets as initial therapy for hypertension on an assessment of potential benefits and risks including whether the patient is likely to tolerate the starting dose of telmisartan and amlodipine tablets. Patients with moderate or severe hypertension are at relatively high risk for cardiovascular events (such as strokes, heart attacks, and heart failure), kidney failure, and vision problems, so prompt treatment is clinically relevant. Consider the patient’s baseline blood pressure, the target goal, and the incremental likelihood of achieving goal with a combination compared with monotherapy when deciding whether to use telmisartan and amlodipine tablets as initial therapy. Individual blood pressure goals may vary based upon the patient’s risk. Data from an 8-week, placebo-controlled, multidose, factorial trial provide estimates of the probability of reaching a blood pressure goal with telmisartan and amlodipine tablets compared to telmisartan or amlodipine monotherapy and placebo [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] . The figures below provide estimates of the likelihood of achieving systolic and diastolic blood pressure control with telmisartan and amlodipine 80/10 mg tablets, based upon baseline systolic or diastolic blood pressure. The curve of each treatment group was estimated by logistic regression modeling. The estimated likelihood at the right tail of each curve is less reliable due to small numbers of subjects with high baseline blood pressures. The figures above provide an approximation of the likelihood of reaching a targeted blood pressure goal at 8 weeks. For example, a patient with a baseline blood pressure of 160/110 mmHg has about a 16% likelihood of achieving a goal of <140 mmHg (systolic) and 16% likelihood of achieving <90 mmHg (diastolic) on placebo. The likelihood of achieving these same goals on telmisartan is about 46% (systolic) and 26% (diastolic). The likelihood of achieving these same goals on amlodipine is about 69% (systolic) and 22% (diastolic). These likelihoods rise to 79% for systolic and 55% for diastolic with telmisartan and amlodipine tablets. · Telmisartan and amlodipine tablet is an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker (DHP-CCB) combination product indicated for the treatment of hypertension alone or with other antihypertensive agents to lower blood pressure. (1) · Telmisartan and amlodipine tablets are indicated as initial therapy in patients likely to need multiple antihypertensive agents to achieve their blood pressure goals (1) Figure These considerations may guide selection of therapy [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not indicated for initial therapy for the treatment of hypertension [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )]. Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are a combination of an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and a thiazide diuretic indicated for the treatment of hypertension, alone or with other antihypertensive agents, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions ( 1 ) Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not indicated for initial therapy ( 1 ) • Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are a combination of an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and a thiazide diuretic indicated for the treatment of hypertension, alone or with other antihypertensive agents, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions ( 1 ) • Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not indicated for initial therapy ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Telmisartan tablets are an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) indicated for: Treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. (1.1) Cardiovascular (CV) risk reduction in patients unable to take ACE inhibitors. (1.2) 1.1 Hypertension Telmisartan tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Telmisartan tablets may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1.2 Cardiovascular Risk Reduction Telmisartan tablets are indicated for reduction of the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, or death from cardiovascular causes in patients 55 years of age or older at high risk of developing major cardiovascular events who are unable to take ACE inhibitors. High risk for cardiovascular events can be evidenced by a history of coronary artery disease, peripheral arterial disease, stroke, transient ischemic attack, or high-risk diabetes (insulin-dependent or non-insulin dependent) with evidence of end-organ damage [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Telmisartan tablets can be used in addition to other needed treatment (such as antihypertensive, antiplatelet or lipid-lowering therapy) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Use of telmisartan with an ACE inhibitor is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Telmisartan is an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) indicated for: Treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Hypertension Telmisartan is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE SECTION Telmisartan is an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) indicated for: • Treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions.(1.1) • Cardiovascular (CV) risk reduction in patients unable to take ACE inhibitors (1.2) 1.1 Hypertension Telmisartan tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Telmisartan may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. High risk for cardiovascular events can be evidenced by a history of coronary artery disease, peripheral arterial disease, stroke, transient ischemic attack, or high-risk diabetes (insulin-dependent or non-insulin dependent) with evidence of end-organ damage [see Clinical Studies (14.2)] . Telmisartan tablets can be used in addition to other needed treatment (such as antihypertensive, antiplatelet or lipid-lowering therapy) [see Clinical Studies (14.2)] . Use of telmisartan with an ACE inhibitor is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)].
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION May be administered with or without food ( 2.1 ) When used for cardiovascular risk reduction, monitoring of blood pressure is recommended, and if appropriate, adjustment of medications that lower blood pressure may be necessary ( 2.2 ) Indication Starting Dose Dose Range Hypertension ( 2.1 ) 40 mg once daily 40 to 80 mg once daily Cardiovascular Risk Reduction ( 2.2 ) 80 mg once daily 80 mg once daily 2.1 Hypertension Dosage must be individualized. The usual starting dose of telmisartan tablets is 40 mg once a day. Blood pressure response is dose-related over the range of 20 to 80 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Most of the antihypertensive effect is apparent within 2 weeks and maximal reduction is generally attained after 4 weeks. No initial dosage adjustment is necessary for elderly patients or patients with renal impairment, including those on hemodialysis. Patients on dialysis may develop orthostatic hypotension; their blood pressure should be closely monitored. Telmisartan tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. Telmisartan tablets may be administered with or without food. 2.2 Cardiovascular Risk Reduction The recommended dose of telmisartan tablets is 80 mg once a day and can be administered with or without food. It is not known whether doses lower than 80 mg of telmisartan are effective in reducing the risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. When initiating telmisartan therapy for cardiovascular risk reduction, monitoring of blood pressure is recommended, and if appropriate, adjustment of medications that lower blood pressure may be necessary. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usual starting dose is 80 mg/12.5 mg once daily (2.1) Titrate up to 160 mg/25 mg as needed (2.1) Initiate patients with biliary obstructive disorders or hepatic insufficiency at 40 mg/12.5 mg (2.2) 2.1 Dosing Information Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with telmisartan monotherapy 80 mg on telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, 80 mg/12.5 mg orally once daily. Dose can be titrated up to 160 mg/25 mg after 2 to 4 weeks, if necessary. Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled by 25 mg once daily of hydrochlorothiazide, or is controlled but who experiences hypokalemia with this regimen on telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 80 mg/12.5 mg once daily. Patients titrated to the individual components (telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide) may instead receive the corresponding dose of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive drugs. 2.2 Dose Adjustment for Hepatic Impairment Initiate patients with biliary obstructive disorders or hepatic insufficiency under close medical supervision using the 40 mg/12.5 mg combination. Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not recommended for patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2.3 Important Administration Instructions Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should not be removed from blisters until immediately before administration. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Substitute telmisartan and amlodipine tablets for its individually titrated components for patients on amlodipine and telmisartan. Telmisartan and amlodipine tablets may also be given with increased amounts of amlodipine, telmisartan, or both, as needed. (2.2, 2.3) Use telmisartan and amlodipine tablets to provide additional blood pressure lowering for patients not adequately controlled with amlodipine (or another dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker) alone or with telmisartan (or another angiotensin receptor blocker) alone (2.3) Dosage may be increased after at least 2 weeks to a maximum dose of 80/10 mg once daily, usually by increasing one component at a time but both components can be raised to achieve more rapid control (2.1, 2.2) Majority of antihypertensive effect is attained within 2 weeks (2.1) Initiate with 40/5 mg or 80/5 mg once daily (2.4) Switch patients who experience dose-limiting adverse reactions on amlodipine to telmisartan and amlodipine tablets containing a lower dose of that component (2.3) 2.1 General Considerations Telmisartan is an effective treatment of hypertension in once daily doses of 20 to 80 mg while amlodipine is effective in doses of 2.5 to 10 mg. Dosage must be individualized and may be increased after at least 2 weeks. The maximum recommended dose of telmisartan and amlodipine tablet is 80/10 mg once daily. The adverse reactions of telmisartan are uncommon and independent of dose; those of amlodipine are a mixture of dose-dependent phenomena (primarily peripheral edema) and dose-independent phenomena, the former much more common than the latter [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)] . Telmisartan and amlodipine tablets may be taken with or without food. 2.2 Replacement Therapy Patients receiving amlodipine and telmisartan from separate tablets may instead receive telmisartan and amlodipine tablets containing the same component doses once daily. When substituting for individual components, increase the dose of telmisartan and amlodipine tablets if blood pressure control has not been satisfactory. 2.3 Add-on Therapy for Patients with Hypertension Not Adequately Controlled on Antihypertensive Monotherapy Telmisartan and amlodipine tablets may be used to provide additional blood pressure lowering for patients not adequately controlled with amlodipine (or another dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker) alone or with telmisartan (or another angiotensin receptor blocker) alone. Patients treated with 10 mg amlodipine who experience any dose-limiting adverse reactions such as edema, may be switched to telmisartan and amlodipine 40/5 mg tablets once daily, reducing the dose of amlodipine without reducing the overall expected antihypertensive response [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)] . 2.4 Initial Therapy A patient may be initiated on telmisartan and amlodipine tablets if it is unlikely that control of blood pressure would be achieved with a single agent. The usual starting dose of telmisartan and amlodipine tablet is 40/5 mg once daily. Patients requiring larger blood pressure reductions may be started on telmisartan and amlodipine tablet 80/5 mg once daily. Initial therapy with telmisartan and amlodipine tablet is not recommended in patients ≥75 years old or with hepatic impairment [see Dosage and Administration (2.5), Warnings and Precautions (5.4), and Use in Specific Populations (8.5, 8.6)] . Correct imbalances of intravascular volume- or salt-depletion, before initiating therapy with telmisartan and amlodipine tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . 2.5 Dosing in Specific Populations Renal Impairment No initial dosage adjustment is required for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. Titrate slowly in patients with severe renal impairment. Hepatic Impairment In most patients, initiate amlodipine therapy at 2.5 mg. Titrate slowly in patients with hepatic impairment. Patients 75 Years of Age and Older In most patients, initiate amlodipine therapy at 2.5 mg. Titrate slowly in patients 75 years of age and older. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usual starting dose is 80 mg/12.5 mg once daily ( 2.1 ) Titrate up to 160 mg/25 mg as needed ( 2.1 ) Initiate patients with biliary obstructive disorders or hepatic insufficiency at 40 mg/12.5 mg ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Dosing Information Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with telmisartan monotherapy 80 mg on telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, 80 mg/12.5 mg orally once daily. Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not recommended for patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Usual starting dose is 80 mg/12.5 mg once daily ( 2.1 ) • Titrate up to 160 mg/25 mg as needed ( 2.1 ) • Initiate patients with biliary obstructive disorders or hepatic insufficiency at 40 mg/12.5 mg ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Dosing Information Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with telmisartan monotherapy 80 mg on telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, 80 mg/12.5 mg orally once daily. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION May be administered with or without food. (2.1) When used for cardiovascular risk reduction, monitoring of blood pressure is recommended, and if appropriate, adjustment of medications that lower blood pressure may be necessary. (2.2) Indication Starting Dose Dose Range Hypertension (2.1) 40 mg once daily 40 mg to 80 mg once daily Cardiovascular Risk Reduction (2.2) 80 mg once daily 80 mg once daily 2.1 Hypertension Dosage must be individualized. The usual starting dose of telmisartan tablets is 40 mg orally once a day. Blood pressure response is dose-related over the range of 20 mg to 80 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION May be administered with or without food ( 2.1 ) Indication Starting Dose Dose Range Hypertension (2.1) 40 mg once daily 40 to 80 mg once daily 2.1 Hypertension Dosage must be individualized. When additional blood pressure reduction beyond that achieved with 80 mg telmisartan is required, a diuretic may be added. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION • May be administered with or without food (2.1) • When used for cardiovascular risk reduction, monitoring of blood pressure is recommended, and if appropriate, adjustment of medications that lower blood pressure may be necessary (2.2) Indication Starting Dose Dose Range Hypertension (2.1) 40 mg once daily 40 to 80 mg once daily Cardiovascular Risk Reduction (2.2) 80 mg once daily 80 mg once daily 2.1 Hypertension Dosage must be individualized. The usual starting dose of telmisartan tablets is 40 orally mg once a day. Blood pressure response is dose-related over the range of 20 to 80 mg [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ].
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Telmisartan is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis or angioedema) to telmisartan or any other component of this product [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. Do not co-administer aliskiren with telmisartan in patients with diabetes. [see Drug interactions(7) ]. Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis or angioedema) to telmisartan or any other component of this product ( 4 ) Do not co-administer aliskiren with telmisartan in patients with diabetes ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated: In patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. In patients with anuria. For co-administration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions (7.4)]. Hypersensitivity to telmisartan or any component (4) Anuria (4) Co-Administration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Telmisartan and amlodipine tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis or angioedema) to telmisartan, amlodipine, or any other component of this product [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Do not co-administer aliskiren with telmisartan and amlodipine tablets in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions (7.2)]. Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis or angioedema) to telmisartan, amlodipine or any other component of this product (4) Do not co-administer aliskiren with telmisartan and amlodipine tablets in patients with diabetes (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated: In patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )]. For co-administration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 ) Hypersensitivity to telmisartan or any component ( 4 ) Anuria ( 4 ) Co-Administration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated: • In patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )]. • In patients with anuria. • For co-administration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 ) ]. • Hypersensitivity to telmisartan or any component ( 4 ) • Anuria ( 4 ) • Co-Administration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Telmisartan tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis or angioedema) to telmisartan or any other component of this product [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. Do not co-administer aliskiren with telmisartan in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis or angioedema) to telmisartan or any other component of this product. (4) Do not co-administer aliskiren with telmisartan in patients with diabetes. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Telmisartan tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis or angioedema) to telmisartan or any other component of this product [ see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. Do not co-administer aliskiren with telmisartan tablets in patients with diabetes [ see Drug Interactions (7) ]. • Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis or angioedema) to telmisartan or any other component of this product (4) • Do not co-administer aliskiren with telmisartan in patients with diabetes (4)
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Aliskiren: Do not co-administer aliskiren with telmisartan in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with telmisartan in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). Digoxin: When telmisartan was co-administered with digoxin, median increases in digoxin peak plasma concentration (49%) and in trough concentration (20%) were observed. Therefore, monitor digoxin levels when initiating, adjusting, and discontinuing telmisartan for the purpose of keeping the digoxin level within the therapeutic range. Lithium: Reversible increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists including telmisartan. Therefore, monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including telmisartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving telmisartan and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including telmisartan may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. NSAIDs : Increased risk of renal impairment and loss of anti-hypertensive effect ( 7 ) Do not co-administer aliskiren with telmisartan in patients with diabetes ( 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity (7.2) Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs): Reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects; increased risk of renal impairment (7.3) Dual blockade of renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia (7.4) Antidiabetic drugs: Dosage adjustment may be required (7.6) Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides (7.7) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Co-administration of telmisartan with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. Monitor serum potassium in such patients. 7.2 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported with concomitant use of thiazide diuretics or angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including telmisartan. Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide and lithium. 7.3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors Telmisartan Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ARBs, including telmisartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. The antihypertensive effect of ARBs may be attenuated by NSAIDs. Therefore, monitor renal function and blood pressure periodically in patients receiving telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide and NSAIDs. Hydrochlorothiazide Administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent, including a selective COX-2 inhibitor, can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of diuretics. Therefore, when telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents including selective COX-2 inhibitors are used concomitantly, observe closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. 7.4 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System and Changes in Renal Function Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAS) with angiotensin blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and renal impairment. The ONTARGET trial enrolled 25,620 patients ≥55 years old with atherosclerotic disease or diabetes with end-organ damage, randomizing them to telmisartan (ARB) only, ramipril (ACE inhibitor) only, or the combination, and followed them for a median of 56 months. Patients who received the combination of ARB and ACE inhibitor did not obtain any additional benefit (no additional reduction of risk of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, stroke, or hospitalization from heart failure) compared to ARB monotherapy or ACE inhibitor monotherapy, but experienced an increased incidence of renal dysfunction (e.g., acute renal failure) compared with monotherapy groups. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes. Avoid concomitant use of aliskiren with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ). 7.5 Digoxin When telmisartan was co-administered with digoxin, median increases in digoxin peak plasma concentration (49%) and in trough concentration (20%) were observed. Monitor digoxin levels in patients taking concomitant telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide and digoxin. 7.6 Antidiabetic Drugs (Oral Agents and Insulin) Dosage adjustment of antidiabetic drugs may be required when co-administered with hydrochlorothiazide. 7.7 Cholestyramine and Colestipol Resins Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Stagger the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and the resin such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of the resin. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS NSAIDS: Increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect (7) If simvastatin is co-administered with amlodipine, do not exceed doses greater than 20 mg daily of simvastatin (7) Do not co-administer aliskiren with telmisartan and amlodipine tablets in patients with diabetes (7.2) 7.1 Drug Interactions with Telmisartan and Amlodipine Tablets The pharmacokinetics of amlodipine and telmisartan are not altered when the drugs are co-administered. No drug interaction studies have been conducted with telmisartan and amlodipine tablets and other drugs, although studies have been conducted with the individual amlodipine and telmisartan components of telmisartan and amlodipine tablets, as described below: 7.2 Drug Interactions with Telmisartan Aliskiren: Do not co-administer aliskiren with telmisartan and amlodipine tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with telmisartan and amlodipine tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). Ramipril and Ramiprilat: Co-administration of telmisartan 80 mg once daily and ramipril 10 mg once daily to healthy subjects increases steady-state C max and AUC of ramipril 2.3- and 2.1-fold, respectively, and C max and AUC of ramiprilat 2.4- and 1.5-fold, respectively. In contrast, C max and AUC of telmisartan decrease by 31% and 16%, respectively. When co-administering telmisartan and ramipril, the response may be greater because of the possibly additive pharmacodynamic effects of the combined drugs, and also because of the increased exposure to ramipril and ramiprilat in the presence of telmisartan. Co-administration of telmisartan and ramipril is not recommended. Other Drugs: Co-administration of telmisartan did not result in a clinically significant interaction with acetaminophen, amlodipine, glyburide, simvastatin, hydrochlorothiazide, warfarin, or ibuprofen. Telmisartan is not metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system and had no effects in vitro on cytochrome P450 enzymes, except for some inhibition of CYP2C19. Telmisartan is not expected to interact with drugs that inhibit cytochrome P450 enzymes; it is also not expected to interact with drugs metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes, except for possible inhibition of the metabolism of drugs metabolized by CYP2C19. 7.3 Drug Interactions with Amlodipine In clinical trials, amlodipine has been safely administered with thiazide diuretics, beta-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, long-acting nitrates, sublingual nitroglycerin, digoxin, warfarin, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, antibiotics, and oral hypoglycemic drugs. Simvastatin: Co-administration of multiple doses of 10 mg of amlodipine with 80 mg simvastatin resulted in a 77% increase in exposure to simvastatin compared to simvastatin alone. Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amlodipine to 20 mg daily. Immunosuppressants: Amlodipine may increase the systemic exposure of cyclosporine or tacrolimus when co-administered. Frequent monitoring of trough blood levels of cyclosporine and tacrolimus is recommended and adjust the dose when appropriate. The following have no clinically relevant effects on the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine: cimetidine, grapefruit juice, magnesium and aluminum hydroxide antacid, sildenafil. Amlodipine has no clinically relevant effects on the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of the following: atorvastatin, digoxin, warfarin. CYP3A4 Inhibitors Co-administration of a 180 mg daily dose of diltiazem with 5 mg amlodipine in elderly hypertensive patients resulted in a 60% increase in amlodipine systemic exposure. Erythromycin co-administration in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine systemic exposure. However, strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir) may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent. Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema when amlodipine is co-administered with CYP3A4 inhibitors. CYP3A4 Inducers No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A4 inducers ( e.g., carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, fosphenytoin, primidone, rifampicin, St. John’s Wort) on amlodipine. Patients should be monitored for adequate clinical effect when amlodipine is co-administered with CYP3A4 inducers. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity ( 7.2 ) Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs): Reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects; increased risk of renal impairment ( 7.3 ) Dual blockade of renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia ( 7.4 ) Antidiabetic drugs: Dosage adjustment may be required ( 7.6 ) Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Co-administration of telmisartan with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and lithium. Therefore, monitor renal function and blood pressure periodically in patients receiving telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and NSAIDs. Hydrochlorothiazide Administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent, including a selective COX‑2 inhibitor, can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of diuretics. Therefore, when telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents including selective COX‑2 inhibitors are used concomitantly, observe closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid concomitant use of aliskiren with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ). Monitor digoxin levels in patients taking concomitant telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and digoxin. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity ( 7.2 ) • Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs): Reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects; increased risk of renal impairment ( 7.3 ) • Dual blockade of renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia ( 7.4 ) • Antidiabetic drugs: Dosage adjustment may be required ( 7.6 ) • Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Co-administration of telmisartan with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. Avoid use of aliskiren with telmisartan in patients with renal impairment (GFR < 60 mL/min). NSAIDs: Increased risk of renal impairment and loss of anti-hypertensive effect. (7) Do not co-administer aliskiren with telmisartan in patients with diabetes. (7) Lithium : Reversible increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists including telmisartan. Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) : In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including telmisartan, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. • NSAIDs: Increased risk of renal impairment and loss of anti-hypertensive effect (7) • Do not co-administer aliskiren with telmisartan in patients with diabetes (7)

=== CITALOPRAM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Citalopram tablets are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . Citalopram tablets are a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults ( 1 ) . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Citalopram tablets are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . Citalopram is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults ( 1 ) . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Citalopram is indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . Citalopram is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults ( 1 ). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Citalopram tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of depression. The efficacy of citalopram in the treatment of depression was established in 4 to 6 week, controlled trials of outpatients whose diagnosis corresponded most closely to the DSM-III and DSM-III-R category of major depressive disorder (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). A major depressive episode (DSM-IV) implies a prominent and relatively persistent (nearly every day for at least 2 weeks) depressed or dysphoric mood that usually interferes with daily functioning, and includes at least five of the following nine symptoms: depressed mood, loss of interest in usual activities, significant change in weight and/or appetite, insomnia or hypersomnia, psychomotor agitation or retardation, increased fatigue, feelings of guilt or worthlessness, slowed thinking or impaired concentration, a suicide attempt or suicidal ideation. The antidepressant action of citalopram tablets, USP in hospitalized depressed patients has not been adequately studied. The efficacy of citalopram in maintaining an antidepressant response for up to 24 weeks following 6 to 8 weeks of acute treatment was demonstrated in two placebo-controlled trials (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Nevertheless, the physician who elects to use citalopram for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Citalopram tablets are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults [see Clinical Studies (14) ]. Citalopram tablets are a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults ( 1 ).
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer once daily with or without food ( 2 ) . Initial dosage is 20 mg once daily; after one week may increase to maximum dosage of 40 mg once daily ( 2.1 ). Patients greater than 60 years of age, patients with hepatic impairment, and CYP2C19 poor metabolizers: maximum recommended dosage is 20 mg once daily ( 2.2 ). When discontinuing citalopram tablets, reduce dosage gradually ( 2.4 , 5.6 ). 2.1 Recommended Dosage Administer citalopram tablets once daily, with or without food, at an initial dosage of 20 mg once daily, with an increase to a maximum dosage of 40 mg once daily at an interval of no less than one week. Dosages above 40 mg once daily are not recommended due to the risk of QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 2.2 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Citalopram Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with citalopram tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Specific Populations The maximum recommended dosage of citalopram tablets for patients who are greater than 60 years of age, patients with hepatic impairment, and for CYP2C19 poor metabolizers is 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.4 Dosage Modifications with Concomitant Use of CYP2C19 Inhibitors The maximum recommended dosage of citalopram tablets when used concomitantly with a CYP2C19 inhibitor is 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Drug Interactions (7) ]. 2.5 Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor Antidepressant At least 14 days must elapse between discontinuation of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) antidepressant and initiation of therapy with citalopram tablets. Conversely, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping citalopram tablets before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . 2.6 Discontinuing Treatment with Citalopram Tablets Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of citalopram tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . Gradually reduce the dosage rather than stopping citalopram tablets abruptly whenever possible. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer once daily with or without food ( 2 ) . • Initial dosage is 20 mg once daily; after one week may increase to maximum dosage of 40 mg once daily ( 2.1 ) . • Patients greater than 60 years of age, patients with hepatic impairment, and CYP2C19 poor metabolizers: maximum recommended dosage is 20 mg once daily ( 2.2 ) . • When discontinuing citalopram tablets, reduce dosage gradually ( 2.4 , 5.6 ) . Dosages above 40 mg once daily are not recommended due to the risk of QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . 2.2 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Citalopram Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with citalopram tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Specific Populations The maximum recommended dosage of citalopram tablets for patients who are greater than 60 years of age, patients with hepatic impairment, and for CYP2C19 poor metabolizers is 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.4 Dosage Modifications with Concomitant Use of CYP2C19 Inhibitors The maximum recommended dosage of citalopram tablets when used concomitantly with a CYP2C19 inhibitor is 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . Conversely, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping citalopram tablets before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . 2.6 Discontinuing Treatment with Citalopram Tablets Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of citalopram tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer once daily with or without food ( 2 ). When discontinuing Citalopram, reduce dosage gradually ( 2.4 , 5.6 ) . 2.1 Recommended Dosage Administer Citalopram once daily, with or without food, at an initial dosage of 20 mg once daily, with an increase to a maximum dosage of 40 mg once daily at an interval of no less than one week. 2.2 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Citalopram Prior to initiating treatment with Citalopram or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Specific Populations The maximum recommended dosage of Citalopram for patients who are greater than 60 years of age, patients with hepatic impairment, and for CYP2C19 poor metabolizers is 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.4 Dosage Modifications with Concomitant Use of CYP2C19 Inhibitors The maximum recommended dosage of Citalopram when used concomitantly with a CYP2C19 inhibitor is 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ]. 2.5 Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor Antidepressant At least 14 days must elapse between discontinuation of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) antidepressant and initiation of therapy with Citalopram. Conversely, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping Citalopram before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. 2.6 Discontinuing Treatment with Citalopram Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of Citalopram [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )]. Gradually reduce the dosage rather than stopping Citalopram abruptly whenever possible. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Citalopram tablets, USP should be administered once daily, in the morning or evening, with or without food. Initial Treatment Citalopram tablets should be administered at an initial dose of 20 mg once daily, with an increase to a maximum dose of 40 mg/day at an interval of no less than one week. Doses above 40 mg/day are not recommended due to the risk of QT prolongation. Additionally, the only study pertinent to dose response for effectiveness did not demonstrate an advantage for the 60 mg/day dose over the 40 mg/day dose. Special Populations 20 mg/day is the maximum recommended dose for patients who are greater than 60 years of age, patients with hepatic impairment, and for CYP2C19 poor metabolizers or those patients taking cimetidine or another CYP2C19 inhibitor. (see WARNINGS ) No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. Citalopram should be used with caution in patients with severe renal impairment. Treatment of Pregnant Women During the Third Trimester Neonates exposed to citalopram and other SSRIs or SNRIs, late in the third trimester, have developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization, respiratory support, and tube feeding (see PRECAUTIONS ). When treating pregnant women with citalopram tablets during the third trimester, the physician should carefully consider the potential risks and benefits of treatment. Maintenance Treatment It is generally agreed that acute episodes of depression require several months or longer of sustained pharmacologic therapy. Systematic evaluation of citalopram in two studies has shown that its antidepressant efficacy is maintained for periods of up to 24 weeks following 6 or 8 weeks of initial treatment (32 weeks total). In one study, patients were assigned randomly to placebo or to the same dose of citalopram (20 mg to 60 mg/day) during maintenance treatment as they had received during the acute stabilization phase, while in the other study, patients were assigned randomly to continuation of citalopram 20 mg or 40 mg/day, or placebo, for maintenance treatment. In the latter study, the rates of relapse to depression were similar for the two dose groups (see Clinical Trials under CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Based on these limited data, it is not known whether the dose of citalopram needed to maintain euthymia is identical to the dose needed to induce remission. If adverse reactions are bothersome, a decrease in dose to 20 mg/day can be considered. Discontinuation of Treatment with Citalopram Tablets Symptoms associated with discontinuation of citalopram and other SSRIs and SNRIs have been reported (see PRECAUTIONS ). Patients should be monitored for these symptoms when discontinuing treatment. A gradual reduction in the dose rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible. If intolerable symptoms occur following a decrease in the dose or upon discontinuation of treatment, then resuming the previously prescribed dose may be considered. Subsequently, the physician may continue decreasing the dose but at a more gradual rate. Switching a Patient To or From a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with citalopram. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping citalopram before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Use of Citalopram with Other MAOIs, Such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start citalopram in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). In some cases, a patient already receiving citalopram therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, citalopram should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. The patient should be monitored for symptoms of serotonin syndrome for 2 weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, whichever comes first. Therapy with citalopram may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue (see WARNINGS ). The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with citalopram is unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use (see WARNINGS ). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer once daily with or without food ( 2 ). • Initial dosage is 20 mg once daily; after one week may increase to maximum dosage of 40 mg once daily ( 2.1 ). • Patients greater than 60 years of age, patients with hepatic impairment, and CYP2C19 poor metabolizers: maximum recommended dosage is 20 mg once daily ( 2.2 ). • When discontinuing citalopram tablets, reduce dosage gradually ( 2.4 , 5.6 ). Dosages above 40 mg once daily are not recommended due to the risk of QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 2.2 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Citalopram Prior to initiating treatment with citalopram tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Conversely, at least 14 days must elapse after stopping citalopram tablets before starting an MAOI antidepressant [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. 2.6 Discontinuing Treatment with Citalopram Adverse reactions may occur upon discontinuation of citalopram tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Initial dosage is 20 mg once daily; after one week may increase to maximum dosage of 40 mg once daily ( 2.1 ) . Patients greater than 60 years of age, patients with hepatic impairment, and CYP2C19 poor metabolizers: maximum recommended dosage is 20 mg once daily ( 2.2 ) . When discontinuing citalopram tablets, reduce dosage gradually ( 2.4 , 5.6 ) . 2.2 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Citalopram Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with citalopram tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Specific Populations The maximum recommended dosage of citalopram tablets for patients who are greater than 60 years of age, patients with hepatic impairment, and for CYP2C19 poor metabolizers is 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.4 Dosage Modifications with Concomitant Use of CYP2C19 Inhibitors The maximum recommended dosage of citalopram tablets when used concomitantly with a CYP2C19 inhibitor is 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Drug Interactions (7) ] .
Warnings: WARNINGS WARNINGS-Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Patients with major depressive disorder (MDD), both adult and pediatric, may experience worsening of their depression and/or the emergence of suicidal ideation and behavior (suicidality) or unusual changes in behavior, whether or not they are taking antidepressant medications, and this risk may persist until significant remission occurs. Suicide is a known risk of depression and certain other psychiatric disorders, and these disorders themselves are the strongest predictors of suicide. There has been a long-standing concern, however, that antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment. Pooled analyses of short-term placebo-controlled trials of antidepressant drugs (SSRIs and others) showed that these drugs increase the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents, and young adults (ages 18 to 24) with major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. Short-term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24; there was a reduction with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older. The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in children and adolescents with MDD, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 24 short-term trials of 9 antidepressant drugs in over 4,400 patients. The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in adults with MDD or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 295 short-term trials (median duration of 2 months) of 11 antidepressant drugs in over 77,000 patients. There was considerable variation in risk of suicidality among drugs, but a tendency toward an increase in the younger patients for almost all drugs studied. There were differences in absolute risk of suicidality across the different indications, with the highest incidence in MDD. The risk differences (drug vs. placebo), however, were relatively stable within age strata and across indications. These risk differences (drug-placebo difference in the number of cases of suicidality per 1,000 patients treated) are provided in Table 1 . No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. There were suicides in the adult trials, but the number was not sufficient to reach any conclusion about drug effect on suicide. It is unknown whether the suicidality risk extends to longer-term use, i.e., beyond several months. However, there is substantial evidence from placebo-controlled maintenance trials in adults with depression that the use of antidepressants can delay the recurrence of depression. All patients being treated with antidepressants for any indication should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening, suicidality, and unusual changes in behavior, especially during the initial few months of a course of drug therapy, or at times of dose changes, either increases or decreases. The following symptoms, anxiety, agitation, panic attacks, insomnia, irritability, hostility, aggressiveness, impulsivity, akathisia (psychomotor restlessness), hypomania, and mania, have been reported in adult and pediatric patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder as well as for other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric. Although a causal link between the emergence of such symptoms and either the worsening of depression and / or the emergence of suicidal impulses has not been established, there is concern that such symptoms may represent precursors to emerging suicidality. Consideration should be given to changing the therapeutic regimen, including possibly discontinuing the medication, in patients whose depression is persistently worse, or who are experiencing emergent suicidality or symptoms that might be precursors to worsening depression or suicidality, especially if these symptoms are severe, abrupt in onset, or were not part of the patient's presenting symptoms. If the decision has been made to discontinue treatment, medication should be tapered, as rapidly as is feasible, but with recognition that abrupt discontinuation can be associated with certain symptoms (see PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION - Discontinuation of Treatment with Citalopram Tablets , USP for a description of the risks of discontinuation of citalopram tablets). Families and caregivers of patients being treated with antidepressants for major depressive disorder or other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric, should be alerted about the need to monitor patients for the emergence of agitation, irritability, unusual changes in behavior, and the other symptoms described above, as well as the emergence of suicidality, and to report such symptoms immediately to health care providers. Such monitoring should include daily observation by families and caregivers. Prescriptions for citalopram tablets should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management, in order to reduce the risk of overdose. QT-Prolongation and Torsade de Pointes Citalopram causes dose-dependent QTc prolongation, an ECG abnormality that has been associated with Torsade de Pointes (TdP), ventricular tachycardia, and sudden death, all of which have been observed in postmarketing reports for citalopram. Individually corrected QTc (QTcNi) interval was evaluated in a randomized, placebo and active (moxifloxacin 400 mg) controlled cross-over, escalating multiple-dose study in 119 healthy subjects. The maximum mean (upper bound of the 95% one-sided confidence interval) difference from placebo were 8.5 (10.8) and 18.5 (21.0) msec for 20 mg and 60 mg citalopram, respectively. Based on the established exposure-response relationship, the predicted QTcNi change from placebo (upper bound of the 95% one-sided confidence interval) under the C max for the dose of 40 mg is 12.6 (14.3) msec. Because of the risk of QTc prolongation at higher citalopram doses, it is recommended that citalopram should not be given at doses above 40 mg/day. It is recommended that citalopram should not be used in patients with congenital long QT syndrome, bradycardia, hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia, recent acute myocardial infarction, or uncompensated heart failure. Citalopram should also not be used in patients who are taking other drugs that prolong the QTc interval. Such drugs include Class 1A (e.g., quinidine, procainamide) or Class III (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol) antiarrhythmic medications, antipsychotic medications (e.g., chlorpromazine, thioridazine), antibiotics (e.g., gatifloxacin, moxifloxacin), or any other class of medications known to prolong the QTc interval (e.g., pentamidine, levomethadyl acetate, methadone). The citalopram dose should be limited in certain populations. The maximum dose should be limited to 20 mg/day in patients who are CYP2C19 poor metabolizers or those patients who may be taking concomitant cimetidine or another CYP2C19 inhibitor, since higher citalopram exposures would be expected. The maximum dose should also be limited to 20 mg/day in patients with hepatic impairment and in patients who are greater than 60 years of age because of expected higher exposures. Electrolyte and/or ECG monitoring is recommended in certain circumstances. Patients being considered for citalopram treatment who are at risk for significant electrolyte disturbances should have baseline serum potassium and magnesium measurements with periodic monitoring. Hypokalemia (and/or hypomagnesemia) may increase the risk of QTc prolongation and arrhythmia, and should be corrected prior to initiation of treatment and periodically monitored. ECG monitoring is recommended in patients for whom citalopram use is not recommended (see above), but, nevertheless, considered essential. These include those patients with the cardiac conditions noted above, and those taking other drugs that may prolong the QTc interval. Citalopram should be discontinued in patients who are found to have persistent QTc measurements >500 ms. If patients taking citalopram experience symptoms that could indicate the occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias, e.g., dizziness, palpitations, or syncope, the prescriber should initiate further evaluation, including cardiac monitoring. Screening Patients for Bipolar Disorder A major depressive episode may be the initial presentation of bipolar disorder. It is generally believed (though not established in controlled trials) that treating such an episode with an antidepressant alone may increase the likelihood of precipitation of a mixed/manic episode in patients at risk for bipolar disorder. Whether any of the symptoms described above represent such a conversion is unknown. However, prior to initiating treatment with an antidepressant, patients with depressive symptoms should be adequately screened to determine if they are at risk for bipolar disorder; such screening should include a detailed psychiatric history, including a family history of suicide, bipolar disorder, and depression. It should be noted that citalopram is not approved for use in treating bipolar depression. Serotonin Syndrome The development of a potentially life-threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with SNRIs and SSRIs, including citalopram, alone but particularly with concomitant use of other serotonergic drugs (including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone, amphetamines, and St. John's Wort) and with drugs that impair metabolism of serotonin (in particular, MAOIs, both those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). Patients should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. The concomitant use of citalopram with MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders is contraindicated. Citalopram should also not be started in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. All reports with methylene blue that provided information on the route of administration involved intravenous administration in the dose range of 1 mg/kg to 8 mg/kg. No reports involved the administration of methylene blue by other routes (such as oral tablets or local tissue injection) or at lower doses. There may be circumstances when it is necessary to initiate treatment with an MAOI such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue in a patient taking citalopram. Citalopram should be discontinued before initiating treatment with the MAOI (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). If concomitant use of citalopram with other serotonergic drugs including, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan and St. John's Wort is clinically warranted, patients should be made aware of a potential increased risk for serotonin syndrome particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. Treatment with citalopram and any concomitant serotonergic agents should be discontinued immediately if the above events occur and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated. Angle Closure Glaucoma The pupillary dilation that occurs following use of many antidepressant drugs including citalopram may trigger an angle closure attack in a patient with anatomically narrow angles who does not have a patent iridectomy. image
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Citalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients: taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue) because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Drug Interactions (7) ] . taking pimozide because of risk of QT prolongation [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . with known hypersensitivity to citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients in citalopram tablets. Reactions have included angioedema and anaphylaxis [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within 14 days of discontinuing a MAOI ( 4 ). Concomitant use of pimozide ( 4 ). Known hypersensitivity to citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients of citalopram ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Citalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients: • taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue) because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . • taking pimozide because of risk of QT prolongation [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . • with known hypersensitivity to citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients in citalopram tablets. Reactions have included angioedema and anaphylaxis [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . • Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within 14 days of discontinuing a MAOI ( 4 ) . • Concomitant use of pimozide ( 4 ) . • Known hypersensitivity to citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients of citalopram tablets ( 4 ) . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Citalopram is contraindicated in patients: taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue) because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . taking pimozide because of risk of QT prolongation [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . with known hypersensitivity to citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients in Citalopram. Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within 14 days of discontinuing a MAOI. ( 4 ). Concomitant use of pimozide. CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with citalopram or within 14 days of stopping treatment with citalopram is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of citalopram within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE and ADMINISTRATION ). Starting citalopram in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Concomitant use in patients taking pimozide is contraindicated (see PRECAUTIONS ). Citalopram is contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients in citalopram. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Citalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients: • taking, or within 14 days of stopping, MAOIs (including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue) because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Drug Interactions (7) ]. • taking pimozide because of risk of QT prolongation [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. • Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within14 days of discontinuing a MAOI ( 4 ). • Concomitant use of pimozide ( 4 ). • Known hypersensitivity to citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients of citalopram tablets ( 4 ). Reactions have included angioedema and anaphylaxis [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use within14 days of discontinuing a MAOI ( 4 ) . Concomitant use of pimozide ( 4 ) . Known hypersensitivity to citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients of citalopram tablets ( 4 ) .
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 5 presents clinically important drug interactions with citalopram. Table 5: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Citalopram Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact Concomitant use of SSRIs, including citalopram, and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Citalopram is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) , Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Pimozide Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram with pimozide increases plasma concentrations of pimozide, a drug with a narrow therapeutic index, and may increase the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to use of citalopram alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Intervention: Citalopram is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Drugs that Prolong the QTc Interval Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram with drugs that prolong QT can cause additional QT prolongation compared to the use of citalopram alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of citalopram with drugs that prolong the QT interval (citalopram is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide) [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. CYP2C19 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram with CYP2C19 inhibitors increases the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to the use of citalopram alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Intervention: The maximum recommended dosage of citalopram is 20 mg daily when used concomitantly with a CYP2C19 inhibitor [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram and other serotonergic drugs (including other SSRIs, SNRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan, and St. John's Wort) increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during citalopram initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of citalopram and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warning and Precautions (5.3) ]. Drugs That Interfere With Hemostasis (antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants) Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram and an antiplatelet or anticoagulant may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Intervention: Inform patients of the increased risk of bleeding associated with the concomitant use of citalopram and antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio [see Warning and Precautions (5.4) ]. CYP2C19 Inhibitors : Citalopram 20 mg daily is the maximum recommended dosage for patients taking concomitant CYP2C19 inhibitors ( 5.2 , 7 ) . Intervention Citalopram is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ), Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Pimozide Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram with pimozide increases plasma concentrations of pimozide, a drug with a narrow therapeutic index, and may increase the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to use of citalopram alone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )]. Intervention: Citalopram is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Drugs that Prolong the QTc Interval Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram with drugs that prolong QT can cause additional QT prolongation compared to the use of citalopram alone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )]. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of citalopram with drugs that prolong the QT interval (citalopram is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide) [see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. CYP2C19 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram with CYP2C19 inhibitors increases the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to the use of citalopram alone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )]. Intervention: The maximum recommended dosage of citalopram is 20 mg daily when used concomitantly with a CYP2C19 inhibitor [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of citalopram and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warning and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio [see Warning and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. CYP2C19 Inhibitors : Citalopram tablets 20 mg daily is the maximum recommended dosage for patients taking concomitant CYP2C19 inhibitors ( 5.2 , 7.1) . Intervention Citalopram is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ), Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Intervention: Citalopram is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide [see Contraindications( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of Citalopram with drugs that prolong the QT interval (Citalopram is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide) [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. CYP2C19 Inhibitors : Citalopram 20 mg daily is the maximum recommended dosage for patients taking concomitant CYP2C19 inhibitors ( 5.2 , 7.1 ). Drug Interactions Serotonergic Drugs See CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . Triptans There have been rare postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome with use of an SSRI and a triptan. If concomitant treatment of citalopram with a triptan is clinically warranted, careful observation of the patient is advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases (see WARNINGS - Serotonin Syndrome ) . CNS Drugs Given the primary CNS effects of citalopram, caution should be used when it is taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs. Alcohol Although citalopram did not potentiate the cognitive and motor effects of alcohol in a clinical trial, as with other psychotropic medications, the use of alcohol by depressed patients taking citalopram is not recommended. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs ) - See CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . Drugs That Interfere With Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin, etc.) Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies of the case-control and cohort design that have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding have also shown that concurrent use of an NSAID or aspirin may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Altered anticoagulant effects, including increased bleeding, have been reported when SSRIs and SNRIs are coadministered with warfarin. Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when citalopram is initiated or discontinued. Cimetidine In subjects who had received 21 days of 40 mg/day citalopram, combined administration of 400 mg twice a day cimetidine for 8 days resulted in an increase in citalopram AUC and C max of 43% and 39%, respectively. Citalopram 20 mg/day is the maximum recommended dose for patients taking concomitant cimetidine because of the risk of QT prolongation (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Digoxin In subjects who had received 21 days of 40 mg/day citalopram, combined administration of citalopram and digoxin (single dose of 1 mg) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either citalopram or digoxin. Lithium Coadministration of citalopram (40 mg/day for 10 days) and lithium (30 mmol/day for 5 days) had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of citalopram or lithium. Nevertheless, plasma lithium levels should be monitored with appropriate adjustment to the lithium dose in accordance with standard clinical practice. Because lithium may enhance the serotonergic effects of citalopram, caution should be exercised when citalopram and lithium are coadministered. Pimozide In a controlled study, a single dose of pimozide 2 mg co-administered with citalopram 40 mg given once daily for 11 days was associated with a mean increase in QTc values of approximately 10 msec compared to pimozide given alone. Citalopram did not alter the mean AUC or C max of pimozide. The mechanism of this pharmacodynamic interaction is not known. Theophylline Combined administration of citalopram (40 mg/day for 21 days) and the CYP1A2 substrate theophylline (single dose of 300 mg) did not affect the pharmacokinetics of theophylline. The effect of theophylline on the pharmacokinetics of citalopram was not evaluated . Sumatriptan There have been rare postmarketing reports describing patients with weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination following the use of a SSRI and sumatriptan. If concomitant treatment with sumatriptan and an SSRI (e.g., fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, paroxetine, sertraline, citalopram) is clinically warranted, appropriate observation of the patient is advised. Warfarin Administration of 40 mg/day citalopram for 21 days did not affect the pharmacokinetics of warfarin, a CYP3A4 substrate. Prothrombin time was increased by 5%, the clinical significance of which is unknown. Carbamazepine Combined administration of citalopram (40 mg/day for 14 days) and carbamazepine (titrated to 400 mg/day for 35 days) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of carbamazepine, a CYP3A4 substrate. Although trough citalopram plasma levels were unaffected, given the enzyme-inducing properties of carbamazepine, the possibility that carbamazepine might increase the clearance of citalopram should be considered if the two drugs are coadministered. Triazolam Combined administration of citalopram (titrated to 40 mg/day for 28 days) and the CYP3A4 substrate triazolam (single dose of 0.25 mg) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either citalopram or triazolam. Ketoconazole Combined administration of citalopram (40 mg) and ketoconazole (200 mg) decreased the C max and AUC of ketoconazole by 21% and 10%, respectively, and did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of citalopram. CYP2C19 Inhibitors Citalopram 20 mg/day is the maximum recommended dose for patients taking concomitant CYP2C19 inhibitors because of the risk of QT prolongation (see WARNINGS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , AND CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) . Metoprolol Administration of 40 mg/day citalopram for 22 days resulted in a two-fold increase in the plasma levels of the beta-adrenergic blocker metoprolol. Increased metoprolol plasma levels have been associated with decreased cardioselectivity. Coadministration of citalopram and metoprolol had no clinically significant effects on blood pressure or heart rate. Imipramine and Other Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) In vitro studies suggest that citalopram is a relatively weak inhibitor of CYP2D6. Coadministration of citalopram (40 mg/day for 10 days) with the TCA imipramine (single dose of 100 mg), a substrate for CYP2D6, did not significantly affect the plasma concentrations of imipramine or citalopram. However, the concentration of the imipramine metabolite desipramine was increased by approximately 50%. The clinical significance of the desipramine change is unknown. Nevertheless, caution is indicated in the coadministration of TCAs with citalopram . Electroconvulsive Therapy (ECT) There are no clinical studies of the combined use of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) and citalopram. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Citalopram was administered in the diet to NMRI/BOM strain mice and COBS WI strain rats for 18 and 24 months, respectively. There was no evidence for carcinogenicity of citalopram in mice receiving up to 240 mg/kg/day, which is equivalent to 20 times the maximum recommended human daily dose (MRHD) of 60 mg on a surface area (mg/m 2 ) basis. There was an increased incidence of small intestine carcinoma in rats receiving 8 or 24 mg/kg/day, doses which are approximately 1.3 and 4 times the MRHD, respectively, on a mg/m 2 basis. A no-effect dose for this finding was not established. The relevance of these findings to humans is unknown. Mutagenesis Citalopram was mutagenic in the in vitro bacterial reverse mutation assay (Ames test) in 2 of 5 bacterial strains (Salmonella TA98 and TA1537) in the absence of metabolic activation. It was clastogenic in the in vitro Chinese hamster lung cell assay for chromosomal aberrations in the presence and absence of metabolic activation. Citalopram was not mutagenic in the in vitro mammalian forward gene mutation assay (HPRT) in mouse lymphoma cells or in a coupled in vitro/in vivo unscheduled DNA synthesis (UDS) assay in rat liver. It was not clastogenic in the in vitro chromosomal aberration assay in human lymphocytes or in two in vivo mouse micronucleus assays. Impairment of Fertility When citalopram was administered orally to 16 male and 24 female rats prior to and throughout mating and gestation at doses of 32 mg, 48 mg, or 72 mg/kg/day, mating was decreased at all doses, and fertility was decreased at doses ≥32 mg/kg/day, approximately 5 times the MRHD of 60 mg/day on a body surface area (mg/m 2 ) basis. Gestation duration was increased at 48 mg/kg/day, approximately 8 times the MRHD . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 5 presents clinically important drug interactions with citalopram tablets. Table 5: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Citalopram Tablets Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact Concomitant use of SSRIs, including citalopram tablets, and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention Citalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) , Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Pimozide Clinical Impact Concomitant use of citalopram tablets with pimozide increases plasma concentrations of pimozide, a drug with a narrow therapeutic index, and may increase the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to use of citalopram tablets alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Intervention Citalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients taking pimozide [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Drugs that Prolong the QTc Interval Clinical Impact Concomitant use of citalopram tablets with drugs that prolong QT can cause additional QT prolongation compared to the use of citalopram tablets alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Intervention Avoid concomitant use of citalopram tablets with drugs that prolong the QT interval (citalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients taking pimozide) [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. CYP2C19 Inhibitors Clinical Impact Concomitant use of citalopram tablets A with CYP2C19 inhibitors increases the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to the use of citalopram tablets alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Intervention The maximum recommended dosage of citalopram tablets is 20 mg daily when used concomitantly with a CYP2C19 inhibitor [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact Concomitant use of citalopram tablets and other serotonergic drugs (including other SSRIs, SNRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan, and St. Intervention Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during citalopram tablets initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of citalopram tablets and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warning and Precautions (5.3) ]. Drugs That Interfere With Hemostasis (antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants) Clinical Impact Concomitant use of citalopram tablets and an antiplatelet or anticoagulant may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Intervention Inform patients of the increased risk of bleeding associated with the concomitant use of citalopram tablets and antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants. CYP2C19 Inhibitors : Citalopram tablets 20 mg daily is the maximum recommended dosage for patients taking concomitant CYP2C19 inhibitors ( 5.2 , 7 ). Table 5: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Citalopram Tablets Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of SSRIs, including citalopram tablets, and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Citalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) , Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Pimozide Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram tablets with pimozide increases plasma concentrations of pimozide, a drug with a narrow therapeutic index, and may increase the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to use of citalopram tablets alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Intervention: Citalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients taking pimozide [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Drugs that Prolong the QTc Interval Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram tablets with drugs that prolong QT can cause additional QT prolongation compared to the use of citalopram tablets alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of citalopram tablets with drugs that prolong the QT interval (citalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients taking pimozide) [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . CYP2C19 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram tablets with CYP2C19 inhibitors increases the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to the use of citalopram tablets alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Intervention: The maximum recommended dosage of citalopram tablets is 20 mg daily when used concomitantly with a CYP2C19 inhibitor [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram tablets and other serotonergic drugs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during citalopram tablets initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of citalopram tablets and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Drugs That Interfere With Hemostasis (antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants) Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of citalopram tablets and an antiplatelet or anticoagulant may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Intervention: Inform patients of the increased risk of bleeding associated with the concomitant use of citalopram tablets and antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . CYP2C19 Inhibitors: Citalopram tablets 20 mg daily is the maximum recommended dosage for patients taking concomitant CYP2C19 inhibitors ( 5.2 , 7 ) .

=== CLOPIDOGREL BISULFATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clopidogrel tablets are a P2Y 12 platelet inhibitor indicated for: Acute coronary syndrome – For patients with non–ST-segment elevation ACS (unstable angina [UA]/non–ST-elevation myocardial infarction [NSTEMI]), clopidogrel tablets have been shown to reduce the rate of myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke. (1.1) – For patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), clopidogrel tablets have been shown to reduce the rate of MI and stroke. (1.1) Recent MI, recent stroke, or established peripheral arterial disease. Clopidogrel tablets have been shown to reduce the rate of MI and stroke. (1.2) 1.1 Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS) Clopidogrel tablets are indicated to reduce the rate of myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke in patients with non–ST-segment elevation ACS (unstable angina [UA]/non–ST-elevation myocardial infarction [NSTEMI]), including patients who are to be managed medically and those who are to be managed with coronary revascularization. Clopidogrel tablets should be administered in conjunction with aspirin. Clopidogrel tablets are indicated to reduce the rate of myocardial infarction and stroke in patients with acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) who are to be managed medically. 1.2 Recent MI, Recent Stroke, or Established Peripheral Arterial Disease In patients with established peripheral arterial disease or with a history of recent myocardial infarction (MI) or recent stroke clopidogrel tablets are indicated to reduce the rate of MI and stroke. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Clopidogrel is a P2Y 12 platelet inhibitor indicated for: • Acute coronary syndrome -For patients with non-ST-segment elevation ACS (unstable angina [UA]/non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction [NSTEMI]), clopidogrel has been shown to reduce the rate of myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke. ( 1.1 ) - For patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), clopidogrel has been shown to reduce the rate of MI and stroke. ( 1.1 ) • Recent MI, recent stroke, or established peripheral arterial disease. Clopidogrel has been shown to reduce the rate of MI and stroke. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS) • Clopidogrel is indicated to reduce the rate of myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke in patients with non-ST-segment elevation ACS (unstable angina [UA]/non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction [NSTEMI]), including patients who are to be managed medically and those who are to be managed with coronary revascularization. Clopidogrel should be administered in conjunction with aspirin. • Clopidogrel is indicated to reduce the rate of myocardial infarction and stroke in patients with acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) who are to be managed medically. 1.2 Recent MI, Recent Stroke, or Established Peripheral Arterial Disease In patients with established peripheral arterial disease or with a history of recent myocardial infarction (MI) or recent stroke clopidogrel is indicated to reduce the rate of MI and stroke. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clopidogrel tablets are P2Y 12 platelet inhibitor indicated for: ● Acute coronary syndrome – For patients with non–ST-segment elevation ACS (unstable angina [UA]/non–ST-elevation myocardial infarction [NSTEMI]), clopidogrel tablets have been shown to reduce the rate of myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke. ( 1.1 ) – For patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), clopidogrel tablets have been shown to reduce the rate of MI and stroke. ( 1.1 ) ● Recent MI, recent stroke, or established peripheral arterial disease. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS) Clopidogrel tablets are indicated to reduce the rate of myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke in patients with non–ST-segment elevation ACS (unstable angina [UA]/non–ST-elevation myocardial infarction [NSTEMI]), including patients who are to be managed medically and those who are to be managed with coronary revascularization. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clopidogrel is a P2Y 12 platelet inhibitor indicated for: Acute coronary syndrome For patients with non-ST-segment elevation ACS [unstable angina (UA)/non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI)], clopidogrel tablets have been shown to reduce the rate of myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke. (1.1) For patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), clopidogrel tablets have been shown to reduce the rate of MI and stroke. (1.2) 1.1 Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS) Clopidogrel tablets are indicated to reduce the rate of myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke in patients with non-ST-segment elevation ACS [unstable angina (UA)/non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI)], including patients who are to be managed medically and those who are to be managed with coronary revascularization. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clopidogrel tablets are a P2Y 12 platelet inhibitor indicated for: Acute coronary syndrome – For patients with non–ST-segment elevation ACS (unstable angina [UA]/non–ST-elevation myocardial infarction [NSTEMI]), clopidogrel tablets has been shown to reduce the rate of myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke. ( 1.1 ) – For patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), clopidogrel tablets has been shown to reduce the rate of MI and stroke. ( 1.1 ) Recent MI, recent stroke, or established peripheral arterial disease. Clopidogrel tablets has been shown to reduce the rate of MI and stroke. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clopidogrel is a P2Y 12 platelet inhibitor indicated for: Acute coronary syndrome For patients with non–ST-segment elevation ACS (unstable angina [UA]/non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction [NSTEMI]), clopidogrel has been shown to reduce the rate of myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke. ( 1.1 ) For patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), clopidogrel has been shown to reduce the rate of MI and stroke. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS) Clopidogrel is indicated to reduce the rate of myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke in patients with non–ST-segment elevation ACS (unstable angina [UA]/ non–ST -elevation myocardial infarction [NSTEMI]), including patients who are to be managed medically and those who are to be managed with coronary revascularization. Clopidogrel is indicated to reduce the rate of myocardial infarction and stroke in patients with acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) who are to be managed medically. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clopidogrel tablets is a P2Y 12 platelet inhibitor indicated for: • Acute coronary syndrome - For patients with non-ST-segment elevation ACS(unstable angina [UA]/non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction [NSTEMI]), clopidogrel tablets has been shown to reduce the rate of myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke. ( 1.1 ) - For patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), clopidogrel tablets has been shown to reduce the rate of MI and stroke. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS) • Clopidogrel tablets is indicated to reduce the rate of myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke in patients with non-ST-segment elevation ACS (unstable angina [UA]/non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction [NSTEMI]), including patients who are to be managed medically and those who are to be managed with coronary revascularization. • Clopidogrel tablets is indicated to reduce the rate of myocardial infarction and stroke in patients with acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) who are to be managed medically. 1.2 Recent MI, Recent Stroke, or Established Peripheral Arterial Disease In patients with established peripheral arterial disease or with a history of recent myocardial infarction (MI) or recent stroke clopidogrel tablets is indicated to reduce the rate of MI and stroke. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clopidogrel tablets USP are a P2Y 12 platelet inhibitor indicated for: • Acute coronary syndrome • For patients with non-ST-segment elevation ACS [unstable angina (UA)/non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI)], clopidogrel tablets USP have been shown to decrease the rate of a combined endpoint of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction (MI), or stroke as well as the rate of a combined endpoint of cardiovascular death, MI, stroke, or refractory ischemia. ( 1.1 ) • For patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), clopidogrel tablets USP have been shown to reduce the rate of death from any cause and the rate of a combined endpoint of death, re-infarction, or stroke. The benefit for patients who undergo primary PCI is unknown. Clopidogrel tablets USP have been shown to reduce the combined endpoint of new ischemic stroke, new MI, and other vascular death. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS) • For patients with non-ST-segment elevation ACS [unstable angina (UA)/non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI)], including patients who are to be managed medically and those who are to be managed with coronary revascularization, clopidogrel tablets USP have been shown to decrease the rate of a combined endpoint of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction (MI), or stroke as well as the rate of a combined endpoint of cardiovascular death, MI, stroke, or refractory ischemia. • For patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), clopidogrel tablets USP have been shown to reduce the rate of death from any cause and the rate of a combined endpoint of death, re-infarction, or stroke. The benefit for patients who undergo primary percutaneous coronary intervention is unknown. The optimal duration of clopidogrel tablet USP therapy in ACS is unknown. 1.2 Recent MI, Recent Stroke, or Established Peripheral Arterial Disease For patients with a history of recent myocardial infarction (MI), recent stroke, or established peripheral arterial disease, clopidogrel tablets USP have been shown to reduce the rate of a combined endpoint of new ischemic stroke (fatal or not), new MI (fatal or not), and other vascular death.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Acute coronary syndrome ( 2.1 ) – Initiate clopidogrel tablets with a single 300 mg oral loading dose and then continue at 75 mg once daily. – Initiating clopidogrel tablets without a loading dose will delay establishment of an antiplatelet effect by several days. Recent MI, recent stroke, or established peripheral arterial disease: 75 mg once daily orally without a loading dose. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Acute Coronary Syndrome In patients who need an antiplatelet effect within hours, initiate clopidogrel tablets with a single 300 mg oral loading dose and then continue at 75 mg once daily. Initiating clopidogrel tablets without a loading dose will delay establishment of an antiplatelet effect by several days [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . 2.2 Recent MI, Recent Stroke, or Established Peripheral Arterial Disease 75 mg once daily orally without a loading dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION • Acute coronary syndrome ( 2.1 ) - Initiate clopidogrel with a single 300 mg oral loading dose and then continue at 75 mg once daily. - Initiating clopidogrel without a loading dose will delay establishment of an antiplatelet effect by several days. • Recent MI, recent stroke, or established peripheral arterial disease: 75 mg once daily orally without a loading dose. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Acute Coronary Syndrome In patients who need an antiplatelet effect within hours, initiate clopidogrel with a single 300 mg oral loading dose and then continue at 75 mg once daily. Initiating clopidogrel without a loading dose will delay establishment of an antiplatelet effect by several days [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. 2.2 Recent MI, Recent Stroke, or Established Peripheral Arterial Disease 75 mg once daily orally without a loading dose [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ● Acute coronary syndrome ( 2.1 ) – Initiate clopidogrel tablets with a single 300 mg oral loading dose and then continue at 75 mg once daily. ● Recent MI, recent stroke, or established peripheral arterial disease: 75 mg once daily orally without a loading dose. Initiating clopidogrel tablets without a loading dose will delay establishment of an antiplatelet effect by several days [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . 2.2 Recent MI, Recent Stroke, or Established Peripheral Arterial Disease 75 mg once daily orally without a loading dose [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Acute coronary syndrome ( 2.1 ) Initiate clopidogrel tablets with a single 300 mg oral loading dose and then continue at 75 mg once daily. Initiating clopidogrel tablets without a loading dose will delay establishment of an antiplatelet effect by several days. Initiating clopidogrel tablets without a loading dose will delay establishment of an antiplatelet effect by several days [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Clinical Studies (14.1)]. 2.2 Recent MI, Recent Stroke, or Established Peripheral Arterial Disease 75 mg once daily orally without a loading dose [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Acute coronary syndrome ( 2.1 ) Initiate clopidogrel with a single 300 mg oral loading dose and then continue at 75 mg once daily. Initiating clopidogrel without a loading dose will delay establishment of an antiplatelet effect by several days. Recent MI, recent stroke, or established peripheral arterial disease: 75 mg once daily orally without a loading dose ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Acute Coronary Syndrome In patients who need an antiplatelet effect within hours, initiate clopidogrel with a single 300-mg oral loading dose and then continue at 75 mg once daily. Initiating clopidogrel without a loading dose will delay establishment of an antiplatelet effect by several days [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Acute coronary syndrome ( 2.1 ) - Initiate clopidogrel tablets with a single 300 mg oral loading dose and then continue at 75 mg once daily. - Initiating clopidogrel tablets without a loading dose will delay establishment of an antiplatelet effect by several days. 2.2 Recent MI, Recent Stroke, or Established Peripheral Arterial Disease 75 mg once daily orally without a loading dose [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Acute coronary syndrome ( 2.1 ) • UA/NSTEMI: 300 mg loading dose followed by 75 mg once daily, in combination with aspirin (75 to 325 mg once daily) • STEMI: 75 mg once daily, in combination with aspirin (75 to 325 mg once daily), with or without a loading dose • Recent MI, recent stroke, or established peripheral arterial disease: 75 mg once daily ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Acute Coronary Syndrome Clopidogrel tablets can be administered with or without food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. • For patients with non-ST-elevation ACS (UA/NSTEMI), initiate clopidogrel tablets with a single 300 mg oral loading dose and then continue at 75 mg once daily. Initiate aspirin (75 to 325 mg once daily) and continue in combination with clopidogrel tablets [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. • For patients with STEMI, the recommended dose of clopidogrel tablets is 75 mg once daily orally, administered in combination with aspirin (75 to 325 mg once daily), with or without thrombolytics. Clopidogrel tablets may be initiated with or without a loading dose [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. 2.2 Recent MI, Recent Stroke, or Established Peripheral Arterial Disease The recommended daily dose of clopidogrel tablets is 75 mg once daily orally, with or without food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 2.3 CYP2C19 Poor Metabolizers CYP2C19 poor metabolizer status is associated with diminished antiplatelet response to clopidogrel. Although a higher dose regimen in poor metabolizers increases antiplatelet response [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 ) ], an appropriate dose regimen for this patient population has not been established. 2.4 Use With Proton Pump Inhibitors (PPI) Avoid using omeprazole or esomeprazole with clopidogrel tablets. Omeprazole and esomeprazole significantly reduce the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel tablets. When concomitant administration of a PPI is required, consider using another acid-reducing agent with minimal or no CYP2C19 inhibitory effect on the formation of clopidogrel active metabolite [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ].
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Active pathological bleeding, such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage (4.1) Hypersensitivity to clopidogrel or any component of the product (4.2) 4.1 Active Bleeding Clopidogrel tablets are contraindicated in patients with active pathological bleeding such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage. 4.2 Hypersensitivity Clopidogrel tablets are contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to clopidogrel or any component of the product [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Active pathological bleeding, such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage ( 4.1 ) • Hypersensitivity to clopidogrel or any component of the product ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Active Bleeding Clopidogrel tablets are contraindicated in patients with active pathological bleeding such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage. 4.2 Hypersensitivity Clopidogrel tablets are contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to clopidogrel or any component of the product [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Active pathological bleeding, such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage ( 4.1 ) Hypersensitivity to clopidogrel or any component of the product ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Active Bleeding Clopidogrel tablets are contraindicated in patients with active pathological bleeding such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Active pathological bleeding, such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage. ( 4.1 ) Hypersensitivity to clopidogrel or any component of the product. ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Active Bleeding Clopidogrel is contraindicated in patients with active pathological bleeding such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Active pathological bleeding, such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage ( 4.1 ) Hypersensitivity to clopidogrel or any component of the product ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Active Bleeding Clopidogrel is contraindicated in patients with active pathological bleeding such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage. 4.2 Hypersensitivity Clopidogrel is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to clopidogrel or any component of the product [ see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 4.2 Hypersensitivity Clopidogrel is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to clopidogrel or any component of the product [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Active pathological bleeding, such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage ( 4.1 ) • Hypersensitivity to clopidogrel or any component of the product ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Active Bleeding Clopidogrel tablets is contraindicated in patients with active pathological bleeding such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage. 4.2 Hypersensitivity Clopidogrel tablets is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to clopidogrel or any component of the product [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Active pathological bleeding, such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage ( 4.1 ) • Hypersensitivity to clopidogrel or any component of the product ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Active Bleeding Clopidogrel is contraindicated in patients with active pathological bleeding such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage. 4.2 Hypersensitivity Clopidogrel tablets are contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to clopidogrel or any component of the product [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ) ].
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP2C19 inducers: Increases levels of clopidogrel active metabolite and increases platelet inhibition. ( 7.1 ) Opioids: Decreased exposure to clopidogrel. Consider use of parenteral antiplatelet agent. ( 7.3 ) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), warfarin, selective serotonin and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs, SNRIs): Increases risk of bleeding. ( 7.4 , 7.5 , 7.6 ) Other Antiplatelet Agents: Increases the risk of bleeding due to an additive effect. ( 7.7 ) Repaglinide (CYP2C8 substrates): Increases substrate plasma concentrations. ( 7.8 ) 7.1 CYP2C19 Inducers Since clopidogrel is metabolized to its active metabolite partly by CYP2C19, use of drugs that induce the activity of this enzyme would be expected to result in increased drug levels of the active metabolite of clopidogrel. Rifampin strongly induces CYP2C19 resulting to both an increase level of clopidogrel active metabolite and platelet inhibition, which in particular might potentiate the risk of bleeding. As a precaution, avoid concomitant use of strong CYP2C19 inducers [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.2 CYP2C19 Inhibitors Clopidogrel is metabolized to its active metabolite in part by CYP2C19. Concomitant use of drugs that inhibit the activity of this enzyme results in reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in platelet inhibition [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Omeprazole or Esomeprazole Avoid concomitant use of clopidogrel with omeprazole or esomeprazole. In clinical studies, omeprazole was shown to reduce significantly the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel when given concomitantly or 12 hours apart. A similar reduction in antiplatelet activity was observed with esomeprazole when given concomitantly with clopidogrel. Dexlansoprazole, lansoprazole, and pantoprazole had less effect on the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel than did omeprazole or esomeprazole [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.3 Opioids As with other oral P2Y 12 inhibitors, coadministration of opioid agonists delay and reduce the absorption of clopidogrel, presumably because of slowed gastric emptying, resulting in reduced exposure to its metabolites [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Consider the use of a parenteral antiplatelet agent in acute coronary syndrome patients requiring coadministration of morphine or other opioid agonists. 7.4 Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Coadministration of clopidogrel and NSAIDs increases the risk of gastrointestinal bleeding. 7.5 Warfarin (CYP2C9 Substrates) Although the administration of clopidogrel 75 mg per day did not modify the pharmacokinetics of S-warfarin (a CYP2C9 substrate) or INR in patients receiving long-term warfarin therapy, coadministration of clopidogrel with warfarin increases the risk of bleeding because of independent effects on hemostasis. However, at high concentrations in vitro , clopidogrel inhibits CYP2C9. 7.6 SSRIs and SNRIs Since selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) affect platelet activation, the concomitant administration of SSRIs and SNRIs with clopidogrel may increase the risk of bleeding. 7.7 Other Antiplatelet Agents Coadministration of antiplatelet agents increase the risk of bleeding due to an additive effect. Promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of blood loss if patients are treated concomitantly with other antiplatelet agents [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 7.8 Repaglinide (CYP2C8 Substrates) The acyl-β-glucuronide metabolite of clopidogrel is a strong inhibitor of CYP2C8. Clopidogrel can increase the systemic exposure to drugs that are primarily cleared by CYP2C8, thereby needing dose adjustment and appropriate monitoring. Clopidogrel increased repaglinide exposures by 3.9-fold to 5.1-fold [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Avoid concomitant use of repaglinide with clopidogrel. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, initiate repaglinide at 0.5 mg before each meal and do not exceed a total daily dose of 4 mg. Increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required during concomitant use. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • CYP2C19 inducers: Increases levels of clopidogrel active metabolite and increases platelet inhibition. ( 7.1 ) • Opioids: Decreased exposure to clopidogrel. ( 7.3 ) • Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), warfarin, selective serotonin and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs, SNRIs): Increases risk of bleeding. ( 7.4 , 7.5 , 7.6 ) • Other Antiplatelet Agents: Increases the risk of bleeding due to an additive effect. ( 7.7 ) • Repaglinide (CYP2C8 substrates): Increases substrate plasma concentrations. As a precaution, avoid concomitant use of strong CYP2C19 inducers [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Concomitant use of drugs that inhibit the activity of this enzyme results in reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in platelet inhibition [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. Dexlansoprazole, lansoprazole, and pantoprazole had less effect on the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel than did omeprazole or esomeprazole [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 7.3 Opioids As with other oral P2Y 12 inhibitors, coadministration of opioid agonists delay and reduce the absorption of clopidogrel, presumably because of slowed gastric emptying, resulting in reduced exposure to its metabolites [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. However, at high concentrations in vitr o, clopidogrel inhibits CYP2C9. Promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of blood loss if patients are treated concomitantly with other antiplatelet agents [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Clopidogrel increased repaglinide exposures by 3.9-fold to 5.1-fold [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . As a precaution, avoid concomitant use of strong CYP2C19 inducers [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Concomitant use of drugs that inhibit the activity of this enzyme results in reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in platelet inhibition [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Omeprazole or Esomeprazole Avoid concomitant use of clopidogrel tablets with omeprazole or esomeprazole. In clinical studies, omeprazole was shown to reduce significantly the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel tablets when given concomitantly or 12 hours apart. A similar reduction in antiplatelet activity was observed with esomeprazole when given concomitantly with clopidogrel tablets. Dexlansoprazole, lansoprazole, and pantoprazole had less effect on the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel tablets than did omeprazole or esomeprazole [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.3 Opioids As with other oral P2Y 12 inhibitors, coadministration of opioid agonists delay and reduce the absorption of clopidogrel, presumably because of slowed gastric emptying, resulting in reduced exposure to its metabolites [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.4 Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Coadministration of clopidogrel tablets and NSAIDs increases the risk of gastrointestinal bleeding. 7.5 Warfarin (CYP2C9 Substrates) Although the administration of clopidogrel 75 mg per day did not modify the pharmacokinetics of S-warfarin (a CYP2C9 substrate) or INR in patients receiving long-term warfarin therapy, coadministration of clopidogrel tablets with warfarin increases the risk of bleeding because of independent effects on hemostasis. Promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of blood loss if patients are treated concomitantly with other antiplatelet agents [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 )]. Clopidogrel tablets can increase the systemic exposure to drugs that are primarily cleared by CYP2C8, thereby needing dose adjustment and appropriate monitoring. Clopidogrel tablets increased repaglinide exposures by 3.9-fold to 5.1-fold [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Avoid concomitant use of repaglinide with clopidogrel tablets. (7.1) Opioids: Decreased exposure to clopidogrel. (7.3) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), warfarin, selective serotonin and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs, SNRIs): Increases risk of bleeding. (7.4 , 7.5 , 7.6) Other Antiplatelet Agents: Increases the risk of bleeding due to an additive effect. (7.7) Repaglinide (CYP2C8 substrates): Increases substrate plasma concentrations. (7.8) 7.1 CYP2C19 Inducers Since clopidogrel is metabolized to its active metabolite partly by CYP2C19, use of drugs that induce the activity of this enzyme would be expected to result in increased drug levels of the active metabolite of clopidogrel. Dexlansoprazole, lansoprazole and pantoprazole had less effect on the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel than did omeprazole or esomeprazole [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.3 Opioids As with other oral P2Y 12 inhibitors, co-administration of opioid agonists delay and reduce the absorption of clopidogrel, presumably because of slowed gastric emptying, resulting in reduced exposure to its metabolites [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Consider the use of a parenteral antiplatelet agent in acute coronary syndrome patients requiring co-administration of morphine or other opioid agonists. 7.4 Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Co-administration of clopidogrel and NSAIDs increases the risk of gastrointestinal bleeding. 7.5 Warfarin (CYP2C9 Substrates) Although the administration of clopidogrel 75 mg per day did not modify the pharmacokinetics of S-warfarin (a CYP2C9 substrate) or INR in patients receiving long-term warfarin therapy, co-administration of clopidogrel with warfarin increases the risk of bleeding because of independent effects on hemostasis. 7.7 Other Antiplatelet Agents Co-administration of antiplatelet agents increase the risk of bleeding due to an additive effect. As a precaution, avoid concomitant use of strong CYP2C19 inducers [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Concomitant use of drugs that inhibit the activity of this enzyme results in reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in platelet inhibition [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Dexlansoprazole, lansoprazole, and pantoprazole had less effect on the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel than did omeprazole or esomeprazole [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.3 Opioids As with other oral P2Y 12 inhibitors, coadministration of opioid agonists delay and reduce the absorption of clopidogrel, presumably because of slowed gastric emptying, resulting in reduced exposure to its metabolites [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of blood loss if patients are treated concomitantly with other antiplatelet agents [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Clopidogrel increased repaglinide exposures by 3.9-fold to 5.1-fold [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. However, at high concentrations in vitro, clopidogrel inhibits CYP2C9. ( 7.1) •Opioids: Decreased exposure to clopidogrel. Consider use of parenteral antiplatelet agent.( 7.3 ) • Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), warfarin, selective serotonin and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs, SNRIs): Increases risk of bleeding. 7.2CYP2C19 Inhibitors Clopidogrel is metabolized to its active metabolite in part by CYP2C19. Concomitant use of drugs that inhibit the activity of this enzyme results in reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in platelet inhibition [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. 7.3 Opioids As with other oral P2Y12 inhibitors, coadministration of opioid agonists delay and reduce the absorption of clopidogrel, presumably because of slowed gastric emptying, resulting in reduced exposure to its metabolites [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of blood loss if patients are treated concomitantly with other antiplatelet agents [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2) ]. Clopidogrel tablets increased repaglinide exposures by 3.9-fold to 5.1-fold [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), warfarin, selective serotonin and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs, SNRIs): Increases risk of bleeding. ( 7.2 , 7.3 , 7.4 ) 7.1 CYP2C19 Inhibitors Clopidogrel is metabolized to its active metabolite in part by CYP2C19. Concomitant use of certain drugs that inhibit the activity of this enzyme results in reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in platelet inhibition [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ) ]. Proton Pump Inhibitors (PPI) Avoid concomitant use of clopidogrel with omeprazole or esomeprazole. In clinical studies, omeprazole was shown to reduce the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel when given concomitantly or 12 hours apart. A higher dose regimen of clopidogrel concomitantly administered with omeprazole increases antiplatelet response; an appropriate dose regimen has not been established. Consider using another acid-reducing agent with minimal or no CYP2C19 inhibitory effect on the formation of clopidogrel active metabolite. Dexlansoprazole, lansoprazole and pantoprazole had less effect on the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel than did omeprazole or esomeprazole [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 7.2 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Coadministration of clopidogrel and NSAIDs increases the risk of gastrointestinal bleeding. 7.3 Warfarin (CYP2C9 Substrates) Although the administration of clopidogrel 75 mg per day did not modify the pharmacokinetics of S-warfarin (a CYP2C9 substrate) or INR in patients receiving long-term warfarin therapy, coadministration of clopidogrel with warfarin increases the risk of bleeding because of independent effects on hemostasis. 7.4 SSRIs and SNRIs Since selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) affect platelet activation, the concomitant administration of SSRIs and SNRIs with clopidogrel may increase the risk of bleeding.

=== EZETIMIBE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Therapy with lipid-altering agents should be only one component of multiple risk factor intervention in individuals at significantly increased risk for atherosclerotic vascular disease due to hypercholesterolemia. Drug therapy is indicated as an adjunct to diet when the response to a diet restricted in saturated fat and cholesterol and other nonpharmacologic measures alone has been inadequate. Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets, which contain a cholesterol absorption inhibitor and an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin), are indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet to: • reduce elevated total-C, LDL-C, Apo B, TG, and non-HDL-C, and to increase HDL-C in patients with primary (heterozygous familial and non-familial) hyperlipidemia or mixed hyperlipidemia. ( 1.1 ) • reduce elevated total-C and LDL-C in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH), as an adjunct to other lipid-lowering treatments. ( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use ( 1.3 ) • No incremental benefit of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin has been established. • Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets have not been studied in Fredrickson Type I, III, IV, and V dyslipidemias. 1.1 Primary Hyperlipidemia Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets are indicated for the reduction of elevated total cholesterol (total-C), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), apolipoprotein B (Apo B), triglycerides (TG), and non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (non-HDL-C), and to increase high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) in patients with primary (heterozygous familial and non-familial) hyperlipidemia or mixed hyperlipidemia. 1.2 Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets are indicated for the reduction of elevated total-C and LDL-C in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, as an adjunct to other lipid-lowering treatments (e.g., LDL apheresis) or if such treatments are unavailable. 1.3 Limitations of Use No incremental benefit of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin has been established. Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets have not been studied in Fredrickson type I, III, IV, and V dyslipidemias. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ezetimibe tablets are indicated: • In combination with a statin, or alone when additional low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering therapy is not possible, as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia, including heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). • In combination with a statin as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated LDL-C in pediatric patients 10 years of age and older with HeFH. • In combination with fenofibrate as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated LDL-C in adults with mixed hyperlipidemia. • In combination with a statin, and other LDL-C lowering therapies, to reduce elevated LDL-C levels in adults and in pediatric patients 10 years of age and older with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH). • As an adjunct to diet for the reduction of elevated sitosterol and campesterol levels in adults and in pediatric patients 9 years of age and older with homozygous familial sitosterolemia. When ezetimibe tablets are used in combination with a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapies, refer to the Prescribing Information of these products for information on the safe and effective use. Ezetimibe tablets are indicated (1): • In combination with a statin, or alone when additional low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering therapy is not possible, as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia, including heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). When ezetimibe tablets are used in combination with a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapies, refer to the Prescribing Information of these products for information on the safe and effective use ( 1 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ezetimibe is indicated: • In combination with a statin, or alone when additional low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering therapy is not possible, as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia, including heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). When ezetimibe is used in combination with a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapies, refer to the Prescribing Information of these products for information on the safe and effective use. Ezetimibe is indicated ( 1 ): • In combination with a statin, or alone when additional low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering therapy is not possible, as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia, including heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). • In combination with fenofibrate as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated LDL C in adults with mixed hyperlipidemia. • In combination with a statin, and other LDL-C lowering therapies, to reduce elevated LDL C levels in adults and in pediatric patients 10 years of age and older with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH). When ezetimibe is used in combination with a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapies, refer to the Prescribing Information of these products for information on the safe and effective use ( 1 ). Ezetimibe tablets are an inhibitor of intestinal cholesterol (and related phytosterol) absorption indicated as an adjunct to diet to: Reduce elevated total-C, LDL-C, Apo B, and non-HDL-C in patients with primary hyperlipidemia, alone or in combination with an HMG- CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) ( 1.1 ) Reduce elevated total-C, LDL-C, Apo B, and non-HDL-C in patients with mixed hyperlipidemia in combination with fenofibrate ( 1.1 ) Reduce elevated total-C and LDL-C in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH), in combination with atorvastatin or simvastatin ( 1.2 ) Reduce elevated sitosterol and campesterol in patients with homozygous sitosterolemia (phytosterolemia) ( 1.3 ) Limitations of Use ( 1.4 ) The effect of ezetimibe tablets on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined. Ezetimibe tablets has not been studied in Fredrickson Type I, III, IV, and V dyslipidemias. 1.1 Primary Hyperlipidemia Monotherapy Ezetimibe tablets, administered alone, is indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet for the reduction of elevated total cholesterol (total-C), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), apolipoprotein B (Apo B), and non­-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (non-HDL-C) in patients with primary (heterozygous familial and non-familial) hyperlipidemia. Combination Therapy with HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors (Statins) Ezetimibe tablets, administered in combination with a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor (statin), is indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet for the reduction of elevated total-C, LDL-C, Apo B, and non-HDL-C in patients with primary (heterozygous familial and non-familial) hyperlipidemia. Combination Therapy with Fenofibrate Ezetimibe tablets, administered in combination with fenofibrate, is indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet for the reduction of elevated total-C, LDL-C, Apo B, and non-HDL-C in adult patients with mixed hyperlipidemia. 1.2 Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) The combination of ezetimibe tablets and atorvastatin or simvastatin is indicated for the reduction of elevated total-C and LDL-C levels in patients with HoFH, as an adjunct to other lipid-lowering treatments (e.g., LDL apheresis) or if such treatments are unavailable. 1.3 Homozygous Sitosterolemia Ezetimibe tablets are indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet for the reduction of elevated sitosterol and campesterol levels in patients with homozygous familial sitosterolemia. 1.4 Limitations of Use The effect of ezetimibe tablets on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ezetimibe Tablets is indicated: In combination with a statin, or alone when additional low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering therapy is not possible, as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia, including heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). In combination with a statin as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated LDL-C in pediatric patients 10 years of age and older with HeFH. In combination with fenofibrate as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated LDL-C in adults with mixed hyperlipidemia. In combination with a statin, and other LDL-C lowering therapies, to reduce elevated LDL-C levels in adults and in pediatric patients 10 years of age and older with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH). As an adjunct to diet for the reduction of elevated sitosterol and campesterol levels in adults and in pediatric patients 9 years of age and older with homozygous familial sitosterolemia. When ezetimibe tablets is used in combination with a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapies, refer to the Prescribing Information of these products for information on the safe and effective use. EZETIMIBE Tablets is indicated (1) : In combination with a statin, or alone when additional low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering therapy is not possible, as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia, including heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). When ezetimibe tablets is used in combination with a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapies, refer to the Prescribing Information of these products for information on the safe and effective use (1) . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ezetimibe tablet is indicated: In combination with a statin, or alone when additional low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering therapy is not possible, as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia, including heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). When ezetimibe tablet is used in combination with a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapies, refer to the Prescribing Information of these products for information on the safe and effective use. Ezetimibe tablet is indicated ( 1 ): In combination with a statin, or alone when additional low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering therapy is not possible, as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia, including heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). When Ezetimibe tablet is used in combination with a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapies, refer to the Prescribing Information of these products for information on the safe and effective use ( 1 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ezetimibe tablets are indicated: In combination with a statin, or alone when additional low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering therapy is not possible, as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia, including heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). Ezetimibe is indicated ( 1 ): In combination with a statin, or alone when additional low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering therapy is not possible, as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia, including heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). In combination with fenofibrate as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated LDL C in adults with mixed hyperlipidemia. In combination with a statin, and other LDL-C lowering therapies, to reduce elevated LDL C levels in adults and in pediatric patients 10 years of age and older with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ezetimibe is indicated: In combination with a statin, or alone when additional low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering therapy is not possible, as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia, including heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ZETIA ® is indicated: In combination with a statin, or alone when additional low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering therapy is not possible, as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia, including heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). When ZETIA is used in combination with a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapies, refer to the Prescribing Information of these products for information on the safe and effective use. ZETIA is indicated ( 1 ): In combination with a statin, or alone when additional low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering therapy is not possible, as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia, including heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). When ZETIA is used in combination with a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapies, refer to the Prescribing Information of these products for information on the safe and effective use ( 1 ). Ezetimibe tablets are indicated ( 1 ): • In combination with a statin, or alone when additional low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering therapy is not possible, as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia, including heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH).
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Dose range is 10 mg/10 mg/day to 10 mg/40 mg/day. ( 2.1 ) • Recommended usual starting dose is 10 mg/10 mg or 10 mg/20 mg/day. ( 2.1 ) • Due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, use of the 10 mg/80 mg dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should be restricted to patients who have been taking ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/80 mg chronically (e.g., for 12 months or more) without evidence of muscle toxicity. ( 2.2 ) • Patients who are currently tolerating the 10 mg/80 mg dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets who need to be initiated on an interacting drug that is contraindicated or is associated with a dose cap for simvastatin should be switched to an alternative statin or statin-based regimen with less potential for the drug-drug interaction. ( 2.2 ) • Due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, associated with the 10 mg/80 mg dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets, patients unable to achieve their LDL-C goal utilizing the 10 mg/40 mg dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should not be titrated to the 10 mg/80 mg dose, but should be placed on alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment(s) that provides greater LDL-C lowering. ( 2.2 ) • Dosing of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should occur either ≥ 2 hours before or ≥ 4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant. ( 2.3 , 7.5 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosing The usual dosage range is 10 mg/10 mg/day to 10 mg/40 mg/day. The recommended usual starting dose is 10 mg/10 mg/day or 10 mg/20 mg/day. Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should be taken as a single daily dose in the evening, with or without food. Patients who require a larger reduction in LDL-C (greater than 55%) may be started at 10 mg/40 mg/day in the absence of moderate to severe renal impairment (estimated glomerular filtration rate less than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ). After initiation or titration of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets, lipid levels may be analyzed after 2 or more weeks and dosage adjusted, if needed. 2.2 Restricted Dosing for 10 mg/80 mg Due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, particularly during the first year of treatment, use of the 10 mg/80 mg dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should be restricted to patients who have been taking ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/80 mg chronically (e.g., for 12 months or more) without evidence of muscle toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. Patients who are currently tolerating the 10 mg/80 mg dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets who need to be initiated on an interacting drug that is contraindicated or is associated with a dose cap for simvastatin should be switched to an alternative statin or statin-based regimen with less potential for the drug-drug interaction. Due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, associated with the 10 mg/80 mg dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets, patients unable to achieve their LDL-C goal utilizing the 10 mg/40 mg dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should not be titrated to the 10 mg/80 mg dose, but should be placed on alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment(s) that provides greater LDL-C lowering. 2.3 Coadministration with Other Drugs Patients taking Verapamil, Diltiazem, or Dronedarone • The dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg/10 mg/day [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.3 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Patients taking Amiodarone, Amlodipine or Ranolazine • The dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg/20 mg/day [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.3 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Patients taking Bile Acid Sequestrants • Dosing of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should occur either greater than or equal to 2 hours before or greater than or equal to 4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant [ see Drug Interactions ( 7.5 ) ]. 2.4 Patients with Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia The recommended dosage for patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia is ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 10 mg/40 mg/day in the evening [ see Dosage and Administration, Restricted Dosing for 10 mg/80 mg ( 2.2 ) ]. Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should be used as an adjunct to other lipid-lowering treatments (e.g., LDL apheresis) in these patients or if such treatments are unavailable. Simvastatin exposure is approximately doubled with concomitant use of lomitapide; therefore, the dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should be reduced by 50% if initiating lomitapide. Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablet dosage should not exceed 10 mg/20 mg/day (or 10 mg/40 mg/day for patients who have previously taken simvastatin 80 mg/day chronically, e.g., for 12 months or more, without evidence of muscle toxicity) while taking lomitapide. 2.5 Patients with Renal Impairment/Chronic Kidney Disease In patients with mild renal impairment (estimated GFR greater than or equal to 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), no dosage adjustment is necessary. In patients with chronic kidney disease and estimated glomerular filtration rate less than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 , the dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets is 10 mg/20 mg/day in the evening. In such patients, higher doses should be used with caution and close monitoring [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ); Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 2.6 Geriatric Patients No dosage adjustment is necessary in geriatric patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The recommended dose of ezetimibe tablets is 10 mg orally once daily, administered with or without food. • If as dose is missed, take the missed dose as soon as possible. Do not double the next dose. • Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating ezetimibe tablets. • Administer ezetimibe tablets at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. • 10 mg orally once daily, with or without food ( 2 ) • Administer ezetimibe tablets either ≥2 hours before or ≥4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant. ( 2 ) • Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating ezetimibe tablets. ( 2 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The recommended dose of ezetimibe is 10 mg orally once daily, administered with or without food. • Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating ezetimibe. • In patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer ezetimibe at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . • 10-mg orally once daily, with or without food ( 2 ) • Administer ezetimibe either ≥2 hours before or ≥4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant. ( 2 ) • Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating ezetimibe. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One 10 mg tablet once daily, with or without food ( 2.1 ) Dosing of ezetimibe tablets should occur either ≥2 hours before or ≥4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant. ( 2.3 , 7.4 ) 2.1 General Dosing Information The recommended dose of ezetimibe tablets is 10 mg once daily. Ezetimibe tablets can be administered with or without food. 2.2 Concomitant Lipid-Lowering Therapy Ezetimibe tablets may be administered with a statin (in patients with primary hyperlipidemia) or with fenofibrate (in patients with mixed hyperlipidemia) for incremental effect. For convenience, the daily dose of ezetimibe tablets may be taken at the same time as the statin or fenofibrate, according to the dosing recommendations for the respective medications. 2.3 Co-Administration with Bile Acid Sequestrants Dosing of ezetimibe tablets should occur either ≥2 hours before or ≥4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ] . 2.4 Patients with Hepatic Impairment No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with mild hepatic impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . 2.5 Patients with Renal Impairment No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with renal impairment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. When given with simvastatin in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (estimated glomerular filtration rate <60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), doses of simvastatin exceeding 20 mg should be used with caution and close monitoring [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. 2.6 Geriatric Patients No dosage adjustment is necessary in geriatric patients [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of ezetimibe tablets is 10 mg orally once daily, administered with or without food. If as dose is missed, take the missed dose as soon as possible. Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating ezetimibe tablets. Administer ezetimibe tablets at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. 10-mg orally once daily, with or without food (2) Administer ezetimibe tablets either ≥2 hours before or ≥4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant. (2) Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating ezetimibe tablets. (2) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of ezetimibe tablet is 10 mg orally once daily, administered with or without food. Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating ezetimibe tablet. Administer ezetimibe tablet at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . 10-mg orally once daily, with or without food ( 2 ) Administer Ezetimibe tablets either ≥2 hours before or ≥4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant. ( 2 ) Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating Ezetimibe tablets. In patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer ezetimibe tablets at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of ezetimibe is 10 mg orally once daily, administered with or without food. Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating ezetimibe. Administer ezetimibe at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . 10-mg orally once daily, with or without food ( 2 ) Administer ezetimibe either ≥2 hours before or ≥4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant. ( 2 ) Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating ezetimibe. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of ZETIA is 10 mg orally once daily, administered with or without food. Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating ZETIA. Administer ZETIA at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . 10-mg orally once daily, with or without food ( 2 ) Administer ZETIA either ≥2 hours before or ≥4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant. ( 2 ) Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating ZETIA. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The recommended dose of ezetimibe tablet is 10 mg orally once daily, administered with or without food. • Administer ezetimibe tablets at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. • 10-mg orally once daily, with or without food ( 2 ) • Administer ezetimibe tablets either ≥2 hours before or ≥4 hours after administration of a bile acid sequestrant.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets are contraindicated in the following conditions: • Concomitant administration of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, HIV protease inhibitors, boceprevir, telaprevir, erythromycin, clarithromycin, telithromycin, nefazodone, and cobicistat-containing products) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. • Concomitant administration of gemfibrozil, cyclosporine, or danazol [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. • Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ) ]. • Active liver disease or unexplained persistent elevations in hepatic transaminase levels [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ]. • Women who are pregnant or may become pregnant. Serum cholesterol and triglycerides increase during normal pregnancy, and cholesterol or cholesterol derivatives are essential for fetal development. Because HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins), such as simvastatin, decrease cholesterol synthesis and possibly the synthesis of other biologically active substances derived from cholesterol, ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Atherosclerosis is a chronic process and the discontinuation of lipid-lowering drugs during pregnancy should have little impact on the outcome of long-term therapy of primary hypercholesterolemia. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablet use during pregnancy; however, in rare reports congenital anomalies were observed following intrauterine exposure to statins. In rat and rabbit animal reproduction studies, simvastatin revealed no evidence of teratogenicity. Ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should be administered to women of childbearing age only when such patients are highly unlikely to conceive. If the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should be discontinued immediately and the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 ) ]. • Nursing mothers. It is not known whether simvastatin is excreted into human milk; however, a small amount of another drug in this class does pass into breast milk. Because statins have the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants, women who require ezetimibe and simvastatin tablet treatment should not breastfeed their infants [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.3 ) ]. • Concomitant administration of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. ( 4 , 5.1 ) • Concomitant administration of gemfibrozil, cyclosporine, or danazol. ( 4 , 5.1 ) • Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication ( 4 , 6.2 ) • Active liver disease or unexplained persistent elevations of hepatic transaminase levels ( 4 , 5.3 ) • Women who are pregnant or may become pregnant ( 4 , 8.1 ) • Nursing mothers ( 4 , 8.3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ezetimibe tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to ezetimibe or any of the excipients in ezetimibe tablets. Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, and urticaria have been reported [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. When used in combination with a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapy, ezetimibe tablets are contraindicated in patients for whom a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapy are contraindicated. Refer to the Prescribing Information of these products for a list of their contraindications [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. • Hypersensitivity to ezetimibe or any excipient of ezetimibe tablets. ( 4 ) • When used in combination with a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapy, ezetimibe tablets are contraindicated in patients for whom a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapy are contraindicated. Refer to the Prescribing Information of these products for a list of their contraindications. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ezetimibe is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to ezetimibe or any of the excipients in ezetimibe. Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, and urticaria have been reported [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . When used in combination with a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapy, ezetimibe is contraindicated in patients for whom a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapy are contraindicated. Refer to the Prescribing Information of these products for a list of their contraindications [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . • Hypersensitivity to ezetimibe or any excipient of ezetimibe. ( 4 ) • When used in combination with a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapy, ezetimibe is contraindicated in patients for whom a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapy are contraindicated. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ezetimibe tablets are contraindicated in the following conditions: The combination of ezetimibe tablets with a statin is contraindicated in patients with active liver disease or unexplained persistent elevations in hepatic transaminase levels. Women who are pregnant or may become pregnant. Because statins decrease cholesterol synthesis and possibly the synthesis of other biologically active substances derived from cholesterol, ezetimibe tablets in combination with a statin may cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women. Additionally, there is no apparent benefit to therapy during pregnancy, and safety in pregnant women has not been established. If the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus and the lack of known clinical benefit with continued use during pregnancy. [See Use in Specific Populations (8.1) .] Nursing mothers. Because statins may pass into breast milk, and because statins have the potential to cause serious adverse reactions in nursing infants, women who require ezetimibe tablets treatment in combination with a statin should be advised not to nurse their infants [see Use in Specific Populations (8.3) ]. Patients with a known hypersensitivity to any component of this product. Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash and urticaria have been reported with ezetimibe tablets [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . Statin contraindications apply when ezetimibe is used with a statin: Active liver disease, which may include unexplained persistent elevations in hepatic transaminase levels ( 4 , 5.2 ) Women who are pregnant or may become pregnant ( 4, 8.1 ) Nursing mothers ( 4, 8.3 ) Known hypersensitivity to product components ( 4, 6.2) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ezetimibe tablets is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to ezetimibe or any of the excipients in ezetimibe tablets. When used in combination with a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapy, ezetimibe tablets is contraindicated in patients for whom a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapy are contraindicated. Hypersensitivity to ezetimibe or any excipient of ezetimibe tablets. (4) When used in combination with a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapy, ezetimibe tablets is contraindicated in patients for whom a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapy are contraindicated. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ezetimibe tablet is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to ezetimibe or any of the excipients in ezetimibe tablets. When used in combination with a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapy, ezetimibe tablet is contraindicated in patients for whom a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapy are contraindicated. ( 4 ) When used in combination with a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapy, Ezetimibe tablet is contraindicated in patients for whom a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapy are contraindicated. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ezetimibe tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to ezetimibe or any of the excipients in ezetimibe. Hypersensitivity to ezetimibe or any excipient of ezetimibe. ( 4 ) When used in combination with a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapy, ezetimibe is contraindicated in patients for whom a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapy are contraindicated. Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, and urticaria have been reported [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . Refer to the Prescribing Information of these products for a list of their contraindications [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ZETIA is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to ezetimibe or any of the excipients in ZETIA. When used in combination with a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapy, ZETIA is contraindicated in patients for whom a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapy are contraindicated. Hypersensitivity to ezetimibe or any excipient of ZETIA. ( 4 ) When used in combination with a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapy, ZETIA is contraindicated in patients for whom a statin, fenofibrate, or other LDL-C lowering therapy are contraindicated. Refer to the Prescribing Information of these products for a list of their contraindications [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )].
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS [ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ). ] Ezetimibe and Simvastatin Tablets Drug Interactions Associated With Increased Risk of Myopathy/Rhabdomyolysis ( 2.3 , 2.4 , 4 , 5.1 , 7.1 , 7.2 , 7.3 , 7.8 , 12.3 ) Interacting Agents Prescribing Recommendations Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors, (e.g., itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, erythromycin, clarithromycin, telithromycin, HIV protease inhibitors, boceprevir, telaprevir, nefazodone, cobicistat-containing products), gemfibrozil, cyclosporine, danazol Contraindicated with ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets Niacin (≥1 g/day) For Chinese patients, not recommended with ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets Verapamil, diltiazem, dronedarone Do not exceed 10 mg/10 mg ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets, daily Amiodarone, amlodipine, ranolazine Do not exceed 10 mg/20 mg ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets, daily Lomitapide For patients with HoFH, do not exceed 10 mg/20 mg ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets 1 Daptomycin Temporally suspend ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets Grapefruit juice Avoid grapefruit juice 1. For patients with HoFH who have been taking 80 mg simvastatin chronically (e.g., for 12 months or more) without evidence of muscle toxicity, do not exceed 10 mg/40 mg ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets when taking lomitapide. • Coumarin anticoagulants: simvastatin prolongs INR. Achieve stable INR prior to starting ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets. Monitor INR frequently until stable upon initiation or alteration of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablet therapy. ( 7.8 ) • Cholestyramine: Combination decreases exposure of ezetimibe. ( 2.3 , 7.5 ) • Other Lipid-lowering Medications: Use with fenofibrates or lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin increases the risk of adverse skeletal muscle effects. Caution should be used when prescribing with ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets. ( 5.1 , 7.2 , 7.4 ) • Fenofibrates: Combination increases exposure of ezetimibe. If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving ezetimibe and a fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered. ( 7.2 , 7.7 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors, Cyclosporine, or Danazol Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors: The risk of myopathy is increased by reducing the elimination of the simvastatin component of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets. Hence when ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets are used with an inhibitor of CYP3A4 (e.g., as listed below), elevated plasma levels of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitory activity increases the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, particularly with higher doses of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Concomitant use of drugs labeled as having a strong inhibitory effect on CYP3A4 is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ]. If treatment with itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, erythromycin, clarithromycin or telithromycin is unavoidable, therapy with ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets must be suspended during the course of treatment. Cyclosporine or Danazol: The risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis is increased by concomitant administration of cyclosporine or danazol. Therefore, concomitant use of these drugs is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 7.2 Lipid-Lowering Drugs That Can Cause Myopathy When Given Alone Gemfibrozil: Contraindicated with ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. Fenofibrates (e.g., fenofibrate and fenofibric acid): Caution should be used when prescribing with ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.7 ) ]. 7.3 Amiodarone, Dronedarone, Ranolazine, or Calcium Channel Blockers The risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, is increased by concomitant administration of amiodarone, dronedarone, ranolazine, or calcium channel blockers such as verapamil, diltiazem or amlodipine [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Table 6 in Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 7.4 Niacin Cases of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis have been observed with simvastatin coadministered with lipid-modifying doses (≥ 1 g/day niacin) of niacin-containing products. The risk of myopathy is greater in Chinese patients. In a clinical trial (median follow-up 3.9 years) involving patients at high risk of cardiovascular disease and with well-controlled LDL-C levels on simvastatin 40 mg/day with or without ezetimibe 10 mg/day, there was no incremental benefit on cardiovascular outcomes with the addition of lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin. Coadministration of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets with lipid-modifying doses (≥1g/day) of niacin is not recommended in Chinese patients. It is unknown if this risk applies to other Asian patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 ) and Use in Specific Populations (8.8 )]. 7.5 Cholestyramine Concomitant cholestyramine administration decreased the mean AUC of total ezetimibe approximately 55%. The incremental LDL-C reduction due to adding ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets to cholestyramine may be reduced by this interaction. 7.6 Digoxin In one study, concomitant administration of digoxin with simvastatin resulted in a slight elevation in plasma digoxin concentrations. Patients taking digoxin should be monitored appropriately when ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets are initiated. 7.7 Fenofibrates (e.g., fenofibrate and fenofibric acid) The safety and effectiveness of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets administered with fibrates have not been established. Because it is known that the risk of myopathy during treatment with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors is increased with concurrent administration of fenofibrates, ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets should be administered with caution when used concomitantly with a fenofibrate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. Fenofibrates may increase cholesterol excretion into the bile, leading to cholelithiasis. In a preclinical study in dogs, ezetimibe increased cholesterol in the gallbladder bile [ see Animal Toxicology and/or Pharmacology ( 13.2 ) ]. If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets and a fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered [ see the product labeling for fenofibrate and fenofibric acid ]. 7.8 Coumarin Anticoagulants Simvastatin 20 to 40 mg/day modestly potentiated the effect of coumarin anticoagulants: the prothrombin time, reported as International Normalized Ratio (INR), increased from a baseline of 1.7 to 1.8 and from 2.6 to 3.4 in a normal volunteer study and in a hypercholesterolemic patient study, respectively. With other statins, clinically evident bleeding and/or increased prothrombin time has been reported in a few patients taking coumarin anticoagulants concomitantly. In such patients, prothrombin time should be determined before starting ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets and frequently enough during early therapy to ensure that no significant alteration of prothrombin time occurs. Once a stable prothrombin time has been documented, prothrombin times can be monitored at the intervals usually recommended for patients on coumarin anticoagulants. If the dose of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets is changed or discontinued, the same procedure should be repeated. Simvastatin therapy has not been associated with bleeding or with changes in prothrombin time in patients not taking anticoagulants. Concomitant administration of ezetimibe (10 mg once daily) had no significant effect on bioavailability of warfarin and prothrombin time in a study of twelve healthy adult males. There have been postmarketing reports of increased INR in patients who had ezetimibe added to warfarin. Most of these patients were also on other medications. The effect of ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets on the prothrombin time has not been studied. 7.9 Colchicine Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with simvastatin coadministered with colchicine, and caution should be exercised when prescribing ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets with colchicine. 7.10 Daptomycin Cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported with ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets administered with daptomycin. Both ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets and daptomycin can cause myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when given alone and the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis may be increased by coadministration. Temporarily suspend ezetimibe and simvastatin tablets in patients taking daptomycin [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 3 includes a list of drugs with clinically important drug interactions when administered concomitantly with ezetimibe and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 3: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Ezetimibe Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of ezetimibe and cyclosporine increases ezetimibe and cyclosporine concentrations. The degree of increase in ezetimibe exposure may be greater in patients with severe renal insufficiency [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention: Monitor cyclosporine concentrations in patients receiving ezetimibe and cyclosporine. In patients treated with cyclosporine, weigh the potential effects of the increased exposure to ezetimibe from concomitant use against the benefits of alterations in lipid levels provided by ezetimibe. Fibrates Clinical Impact: Both fenofibrate and ezetimibe may increase cholesterol excretion into the bile, leading to cholelithiasis. Co-administration of ezetimibe with fibrates other than fenofibrate is not recommended [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . Intervention: If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving ezetimibe and fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated, and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered. Bile Acid Sequestrants Clinical Impact: Concomitant cholestyramine administration decreased the mean exposure of total ezetimibe. This may result in a reduction of efficacy [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention: In patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer ezetimibe at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant [see Dosage and Administration (2) ] . • Cyclosporine: Combination increases exposure of ezetimibe and cyclosporine. Cyclosporine concentrations should be monitored in patients taking ezetimibe concomitantly. ( 7 ) • Fibrates: Coadministration of ezetimibe with fibrates other than fenofibrate is not recommended until use in patients is adequately studied. If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving ezetimibe and fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated, and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered. ( 7 ) • Bile Acid Sequestrants: Cholestyramine combination decreases exposure of ezetimibe. ( 7 ) The degree of increase in ezetimibe exposure may be greater in patients with severe renal insufficiency [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention : Monitor cyclosporine concentrations in patients receiving ezetimibe and cyclosporine. Co-administration of ezetimibe with fibrates other than fenofibrate is not recommended [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . This may result in a reduction of efficacy [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: In patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer ezetimibe at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant [see Dosage and Administration ( 2 )] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) .] Cyclosporine: Combination increases exposure of ezetimibe and cyclosporine. ( 7.1 , 12.3 ) Fenofibrate: Combination increases exposure of ezetimibe. If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving ezetimibe and fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated and alternative lipid- lowering therapy should be considered. ( 6.1 , 7.3 ) Fibrates: Co-administration of ezetimibe with fibrates other than fenofibrate is not recommended until use in patients is adequately studied. ( 7.2 ) Cholestyramine: Combination decreases exposure of ezetimibe. ( 2.3 , 7.4 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Cyclosporine Caution should be exercised when using ezetimibe and cyclosporine concomitantly due to increased exposure to both ezetimibe and cyclosporine. Cyclosporine concentrations should be monitored in patients receiving ezetimibe and cyclosporine. The degree of increase in ezetimibe exposure may be greater in patients with severe renal insufficiency. In patients treated with cyclosporine, the potential effects of the increased exposure to ezetimibe from concomitant use should be carefully weighed against the benefits of alterations in lipid levels provided by ezetimibe. 7.2 Fibrates The efficacy and safety of co-administration of ezetimibe with fibrates other than fenofibrate have not been studied. Fibrates may increase cholesterol excretion into the bile, leading to cholelithiasis. In a preclinical study in dogs, ezetimibe increased cholesterol in the gallbladder bile [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.2) ]. Co-­administration of ezetimibe with fibrates other than fenofibrate is not recommended until use in patients is adequately studied. 7.3 Fenofibrate If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving ezetimibe and fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) and the product labeling for fenofibrate] . 7.4 Cholestyramine Concomitant cholestyramine administration decreased the mean area under the curve (AUC) of total ezetimibe approximately 55%. The incremental LDL-C reduction due to adding ezetimibe to cholestyramine may be reduced by this interaction. 7.5 Coumarin Anticoagulants If ezetimibe is added to warfarin, a coumarin anticoagulant, the International Normalized Ratio (INR) should be appropriately monitored. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 3 includes a list of drugs with clinically important drug interactions when administered concomitantly with ezetimibe tablets and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 3: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Ezetimibe Tablets Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of ezetimibe tablets and cyclosporine increases ezetimibe and cyclosporine concentrations. The degree of increase in ezetimibe exposure may be greater in patients with severe renal insufficiency [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Monitor cyclosporine concentrations in patients receiving ezetimibe tablets and cyclosporine. In patients treated with cyclosporine, weigh the potential effects of the increased exposure to ezetimibe from concomitant use against the benefits of alterations in lipid levels provided by ezetimibe tablets. Co-administration of ezetimibe tablets with fibrates other than fenofibrate is not recommended [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Intervention: If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving ezetimibe tablets and fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated, and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered. This may result in a reduction of efficacy [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: In patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer ezetimibe tablets at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant [see Dosage and Administration (2) ]. Cyclosporine: Combination increases exposure of ezetimibe tablets and cyclosporine. Cyclosporine concentrations should be monitored in patients taking ezetimibe tablets concomitantly. (7) Fibrates: Coadministration of ezetimibe tablets with fibrates other than fenofibrate is not recommended until use in patients is adequately studied. If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving ezetimibe tablets and fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated, and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered. (7) Bile Acid Sequestrants: Cholestyramine combination decreases exposure of ezetimibe tablets. (7) Table 3: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Ezetimibe tablets Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of ezetimibe and cyclosporine increases ezetimibe and cyclosporine concentrations. The degree of increase in ezetimibe exposure may be greater in patients with severe renal insufficiency [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Co-administration of ezetimibe with fibrates other than fenofibrate is not recommended [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. This may result in a reduction of efficacy [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: In patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer ezetimibe at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant [see Dosage and Administration ( 2 )]. Cyclosporine: Combination increases exposure of ezetimibe and cyclosporine. ( 7 ) Fibrates: Coadministration of ezetimibe with fibrates other than fenofibrate is not recommended until use in patients is adequately studied. ( 7 ) Bile Acid Sequestrants: Cholestyramine combination decreases exposure of ezetimibe. ( 7 ) See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION and FDA-approved patient labeling. Revised: 03/2024 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 3 includes a list of drugs with clinically important drug interactions when administered concomitantly with ZETIA and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 3: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with ZETIA Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of ZETIA and cyclosporine increases ezetimibe and cyclosporine concentrations. Intervention: Monitor cyclosporine concentrations in patients receiving ZETIA and cyclosporine. In patients treated with cyclosporine, weigh the potential effects of the increased exposure to ezetimibe from concomitant use against the benefits of alterations in lipid levels provided by ZETIA. Co-administration of ZETIA with fibrates other than fenofibrate is not recommended [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . Intervention: If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving ZETIA and fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated, and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered. Intervention: In patients taking a bile acid sequestrant, administer ZETIA at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after the bile acid sequestrant [see Dosage and Administration (2) ] . Cyclosporine: Combination increases exposure of ZETIA and cyclosporine. Cyclosporine concentrations should be monitored in patients taking ZETIA concomitantly. ( 7 ) Fibrates: Coadministration of ZETIA with fibrates other than fenofibrate is not recommended until use in patients is adequately studied. If cholelithiasis is suspected in a patient receiving ZETIA and fenofibrate, gallbladder studies are indicated, and alternative lipid-lowering therapy should be considered. ( 7 ) Bile Acid Sequestrants: Cholestyramine combination decreases exposure of ZETIA. Coadministration of ezetimibe with fibrates other than fenofibrate is not recommended [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] .

=== LURASIDONE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets are indicated for: • Treatment of adult and adolescent patients (13 to 17 years) with schizophrenia [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . • Monotherapy treatment of adult and pediatric patients (10 to 17 years) with major depressive episode associated with bipolar I disorder (bipolar depression) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. • Adjunctive treatment with lithium or valproate in adult patients with major depressive episode associated with bipolar I disorder (bipolar depression) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets are an atypical antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of: • Schizophrenia in adults and adolescents (13 to 17 years) ( 1 , 14.1 ) • Depressive episode associated with Bipolar I Disorder (bipolar depression) in adults and pediatric patients (10 to 17 years) as monotherapy ( 1 , 14.2 ) • Depressive episode associated with Bipolar I Disorder (bipolar depression) in adults as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate ( 1 , 14.2 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lurasidone hydrochloride tablet is indicated for: Treatment of adult and adolescent patients (13 to 17 years) with schizophrenia [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Monotherapy treatment of adult and pediatric patients (10 to 17 years) with major depressive episode associated with bipolar I disorder (bipolar depression) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Adjunctive treatment with lithium or valproate in adult patients with major depressive episode associated with bipolar I disorder (bipolar depression) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Lurasidone hydrochloride is an atypical antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of: Schizophrenia in adults and adolescents (13 to 17 years) ( 1 , 14.1 ) Depressive episode associated with Bipolar I Disorder (bipolar depression) in adults and pediatric patients (10 to 17 years) as monotherapy ( 1 , 14.2 ) Depressive episode associated with Bipolar I Disorder (bipolar depression) in adults as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate ( 1 , 14.2 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lurasidone hydrochloride is indicated for: • Treatment of adult and adolescent patients (13 to 17 years) with schizophrenia [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. • Monotherapy treatment of adult and pediatric patients (10 to 17 years) with major depressive episode associated with bipolar I disorder (other indication) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. • Adjunctive treatment with lithium or valproate in adult patients with major depressive episode associated with bipolar I disorder (other indication) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. Lurasidone hydrochloride is an atypical antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of: • Schizophrenia in adults and adolescents (13 to 17 years) ( 1 , 14.1 ) • Depressive episode associated with Bipolar I Disorder (other indication) in adults and pediatric patients (10 to 17 years) as monotherapy ( 1 , 14.2 ) • Depressive episode associated with Bipolar I Disorder (other indication) in adults as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate ( 1 , 14.2 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets are indicated for: Monotherapy treatment of adult and pediatric patients (10 to 17 years) with major depressive episode associated with bipolar I disorder (bipolar depression) [see Clinical Studies (14.2)] . Adjunctive treatment with lithium or valproate in adult patients with major depressive episode associated with bipolar I disorder (bipolar depression) [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. Lurasidone hydrochloride is an atypical antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of: Depressive episode associated with Bipolar I Disorder (bipolar depression) in adults and pediatric patients (10 to 17 years) as monotherapy (1,14.2) Depressive episode associated with Bipolar I Disorder (bipolar depression) in adults as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate (1, 14.2) Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets are indicated for: Treatment of adult and adolescent patients (13 to 17 years) with schizophrenia [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Monotherapy treatment of adult and pediatric patients (10 to 17 years) with major depressive episode associated with bipolar I disorder (bipolar depression) [see Clinical Studies (14.2)].
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets should be taken with food (at least 350 calories). Administration with food substantially increases the absorption of lurasidone hydrochloride tablets ( 2.3 , 12.3 ). Indication Starting Dose Recommended Dose Schizophrenia – adults ( 2.1 ) 40 mg per day 40 mg to 160 mg per day Schizophrenia – adolescents (13 to 17 years) ( 2.1 ) 40 mg per day 40 mg to 80 mg per day Bipolar Depression - adults ( 2.2 ) 20 mg per day 20 mg to 120 mg per day Bipolar Depression – pediatric patients (10 to 17 years) ( 2.2 ) 20 mg per day 20 mg to 80 mg per day • Moderate and Severe Renal Impairment: Recommended starting dose is 20 mg per day, and the maximum recommended dose is 80 mg per day ( 2.4 , 8.6 ). • Moderate and Severe Hepatic Impairment: Recommended starting dose is 20 mg per day. The maximum recommended dose is 80 mg per day in moderate hepatic impairment and 40 mg per day in severe hepatic impairment ( 2.5 , 8.7 ). • Concomitant Use of a Moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., diltiazem): Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets dose should be reduced to half of the original dose level. Recommended starting dose is 20 mg per day. Maximum recommended dose is 80 mg per day ( 2.6 , 7.1 ). • Concomitant Use of a Moderate CYP3A4 Inducer: It may be necessary to increase the dose of lurasidone hydrochloride tablets ( 2.6 , 7.1 ). 2.1 Schizophrenia Adults The recommended starting dose of lurasidone hydrochloride tablets is 40 mg once daily. Initial dose titration is not required. Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets have been shown to be effective in a dose range of 40 mg per day to 160 mg per day [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . The maximum recommended dose is 160 mg per day. Adolescents (13 to 17 years) The recommended starting dose of lurasidone hydrochloride tablets is 40 mg once daily. Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets have been shown to be effective in a dose range of 40 mg per day to 80 mg per day [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . The maximum recommended dose is 80 mg per day. 2.2 Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder Adults The recommended starting dose of lurasidone hydrochloride tablets is 20 mg given once daily as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate. Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets have been shown to be effective in a dose range of 20 mg per day to 120 mg per day as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. The maximum recommended dose, as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate, is 120 mg per day. In the monotherapy study, the higher dose range (80 mg to 120 mg per day) did not provide additional efficacy, on average, compared to the lower dose range (20 to 60 mg per day) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . Pediatric Patients (10 to 17 years) The recommended starting dose of lurasidone hydrochloride tablets are 20 mg given once daily as monotherapy. The dose may be increased after one week based on clinical response. Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets have been shown to be effective in a dose range of 20 mg per day to 80 mg per day as monotherapy. At the end of the clinical study, most of the patients (67%) received 20 mg or 40 mg once daily [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. The efficacy of lurasidone hydrochloride tablets in the treatment of mania associated with bipolar disorder has not been established. 2.3 Administration Information Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets should be taken with food (at least 350 calories). Administration with food substantially increases the absorption of lurasidone hydrochloride tablets. Administration with food increases the AUC approximately 2-fold and increases the C max approximately 3-fold. In the clinical studies, lurasidone hydrochloride tablets was administered with food [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . The effectiveness of lurasidone hydrochloride tablets for longer-term use, that is, for more than 6 weeks, has not been established in controlled studies. Therefore, the physician who elects to use lurasidone hydrochloride tablets for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 and 2.2 )]. 2.4 Dose Modifications for Renal Impairment Dose adjustment is recommended in moderate (creatinine clearance: 30 to <50 mL/min) and severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/min) patients. The recommended starting dose is 20 mg per day. The dose in these patients should not exceed 80 mg per day [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. 2.5 Dose Modifications for Hepatic Impairment Dose adjustment is recommended in moderate (Child-Pugh Score = 7 to 9) and severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Score = 10 to 15) patients. The dose in moderate hepatic impairment patients should not exceed 80 mg per day and the dose in severe hepatic impairment patients should not exceed 40 per mg/day [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )]. 2.6 Dose Modifications Due to Drug Interactions of CYP3A4 Inhibitors and CYP3A4 Inducers Concomitant Use with CYP3A4 Inhibitors Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets should not be used concomitantly with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole, clarithromycin, ritonavir, voriconazole, mibefradil, etc.) [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. If lurasidone hydrochloride tablets are being prescribed and a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g. diltiazem, atazanavir, erythromycin, fluconazole, verapamil etc.) is added to the therapy, the lurasidone hydrochloride tablets dose should be reduced to half of the original dose level. Similarly, if a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is being prescribed and lurasidone hydrochloride tablets are added to the therapy, the recommended starting dose of lurasidone hydrochloride tablets are 20 mg per day, and the maximum recommended dose of lurasidone hydrochloride tablets are 80 mg per day [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. Grapefruit and grapefruit juice should be avoided in patients taking lurasidone hydrochloride tablets, since these may inhibit CYP3A4 and alter lurasidone hydrochloride tablets concentrations [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. Concomitant Use with CYP3A4 Inducers Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets should not be used concomitantly with a strong CYP3A4 inducer (e.g., rifampin, avasimibe, St. John’s wort, phenytoin, carbamazepine, etc.) [see Contraindications ( 4 ); Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. If lurasidone hydrochloride tablets are used concomitantly with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer, it may be necessary to increase the lurasidone hydrochloride tablets dose after chronic treatment (7 days or more) with the CYP3A4 inducer. Administration with food substantially increases the absorption of lurasidone ( 2.3 , 12.3 ). Indication Starting Dose Recommended Dose Schizophrenia – adults ( 2.1 ) 40 mg per day 40 mg to 160 mg per day Schizophrenia adolescents (13 to 17 years) ( 2.1 ) 40 mg per day 40 mg to 80 mg per day Bipolar Depression-adults ( 2.2 ) 20 mg per day 20 mg to 120 mg per day Bipolar Depression pediatric patients (10 to 17 years) ( 2.2 ) 20 mg per day 20 mg to 80 mg per day Moderate and Severe Renal Impairment: Recommended starting dose is 20 mg per day, and the maximum recommended dose is 80 mg per day ( 2.4 , 8.6 ). Moderate and Severe Hepatic Impairment: Recommended starting dose is 20 mg per day. Concomitant Use of a Moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., diltiazem): Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets dose should be reduced to half of the original dose level. Concomitant Use of a Moderate CYP3A4 Inducer: It may be necessary to increase the dose of lurasidone hydrochloride tablets ( 2.6 , 7.1 ). 2.1 Schizophrenia Adults The recommended starting dose of lurasidone hydrochloride tablet is 40 mg once daily. Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets have been shown to be effective in a dose range of 40 mg per day to 160 mg per day [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Adolescents (13 to 17 years) The recommended starting dose of lurasidone hydrochloride tablet is 40 mg once daily. Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets have been shown to be effective in a dose range of 40 mg per day to 80 mg per day [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ] . 2.2 Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder Adults The recommended starting dose of lurasidone hydrochloride tablet is 20 mg given once daily as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate. Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets have been shown to be effective in a dose range of 20 mg per day to 120 mg per day as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ]. In the monotherapy study, the higher dose range (80 mg to 120 mg per day) did not provide additional efficacy, on average, compared to the lower dose range (20 to 60 mg per day) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . Pediatric Patients (10 to 17 years) The recommended starting dose of lurasidone hydrochloride tablet is 20 mg given once daily as monotherapy. At the end of the clinical study, most of the patients (67%) received 20 mg or 40 mg once daily [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Administration with food substantially increases the absorption of lurasidone. In the clinical studies, lurasidone hydrochloride tablets were administered with food [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Therefore, the physician who elects to use lurasidone hydrochloride tablets for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 and 2.2 )] . The dose in these patients should not exceed 80 mg per day [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . The dose in moderate hepatic impairment patients should not exceed 80 mg per day and the dose in severe hepatic impairment patients should not exceed 40 per mg/day [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ]. 2.6 Dose Modifications Due to Drug Interactions of CYP3A4 Inhibitors and CYP3A4 Inducers Concomitant Use with CYP3A4 Inhibitors Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets should not be used concomitantly with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole, clarithromycin, ritonavir, voriconazole, mibefradil, etc.) [see Contraindications (4) ] . Similarly, if a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is being prescribed and lurasidone hydrochloride tablets are added to the therapy, the recommended starting dose of lurasidone hydrochloride tablets is 20 mg per day, and the maximum recommended dose of lurasidone hydrochloride tablets is 80 mg per day [see Contraindications (4) , Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Grapefruit and grapefruit juice should be avoided in patients taking lurasidone hydrochloride tablets, since these may inhibit CYP3A4 and alter lurasidone concentrations [ see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . John’s wort, phenytoin, carbamazepine, etc.) [see Contraindications (4) ; Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Indication Starting Dose Recommended Dose Schizophrenia – adults ( 2.1 ) 40 mg per day 40 mg to 160 mg per day Schizophrenia –adolescents (13 to 17 years) ( 2.1 ) 40 mg per day 40 mg to 80 mg per day Bipolar Depression - adults ( 2.2 ) 20 mg per day 20 mg to 120 mg per day Bipolar Depression –pediatric patients (10 to 17 years) ( 2.2 ) 20 mg per day 20 mg to 80 mg per day Moderate and Severe Renal Impairment: Recommended starting dose is 20 mg per day, and the maximum recommended dose is 80 mg per day ( 2.4 , 8.6 ). Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets have been shown to be effective in a dose range of 40 mg per day to 160 mg per day [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets have been shown to be effective in a dose range of 20 mg per day to 120 mg per day as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . In the monotherapy study, the higher dose range (80 mg to 120 mg per day) did not provide additional efficacy, on average, compared to the lower dose range (20 to 60 mg per day) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Pediatric Patients (10 – 17 years) The recommended starting dose of lurasidone hydrochloride tablet is 20 mg given once daily as monotherapy. Grapefruit and grapefruit juice should be avoided in patients taking lurasidone hydrochloride tablets, since these may inhibit CYP3A4 and alter lurasidone concentrations [ see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Lurasidone hydrochloride should be taken with food (at least 350 calories). Administration with food substantially increases the absorption of lurasidone hydrochloride ( 2.3 , 12.3 ). Indication Starting Dose Recommended Dose Schizophrenia – adults ( 2.1 ) 40 mg per day 40 mg to 160 mg per day Schizophrenia – adolescents (13 to 17 years) ( 2.1 ) 40 mg per day 40 mg to 80 mg per day Other indication– adults ( 2.2 ) 20 mg per day 20 mg to 120 mg per day Other indication– pediatric patients (10 to 17 years) ( 2.2 ) 20 mg per day 20 mg to 80 mg per day • Moderate and Severe Renal Impairment: Recommended starting dose is 20 mg per day, and the maximum recommended dose is 80 mg per day ( 2.4 , 8.6 ). • Concomitant Use of a Moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., diltiazem): Lurasidone hydrochloride dose should be reduced to half of the original dose level. • Concomitant Use of a Moderate CYP3A4 Inducer: It may be necessary to increase the dose of lurasidone hydrochloride ( 2.6 , 7.1 ). 2.1 Schizophrenia Adults The recommended starting dose of lurasidone hydrochloride is 40 mg once daily. Lurasidone hydrochloride has been shown to be effective in a dose range of 40 mg per day to 160 mg per day [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. Adolescents (13-17 years) The recommended starting dose of lurasidone hydrochloride is 40 mg once daily. lurasidone hydrochloride has been shown to be effective in a dose range of 40 mg per day to 80 mg per day [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. 2.2 Depressive Episodes Associated with Bipolar I Disorder Adults The recommended starting dose of lurasidone hydrochloride is 20 mg given once daily as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate. Lurasidone hydrochloride has been shown to be effective in a dose range of 20 mg per day to 120 mg per day as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. In the monotherapy study, the higher dose range (80 mg to 120 mg per day) did not provide additional efficacy, on average, compared to the lower dose range (20 to 60 mg per day) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. Pediatric Patients (10 – 17 years) The recommended starting dose of lurasidone hydrochloride is 20 mg given once daily as monotherapy. lurasidone hydrochloride has been shown to be effective in a dose range of 20 mg per day to 80 mg per day as monotherapy. The efficacy of lurasidone hydrochloride in the treatment of mania associated with bipolar disorder has not been established. 2.3 Administration Information Lurasidone hydrochloride should be taken with food (at least 350 calories). Administration with food substantially increases the absorption of lurasidone hydrochloride. In the clinical studies, lurasidone hydrochloride was administered with food [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. The effectiveness of lurasidone hydrochloride for longer-term use, that is, for more than 6 weeks, has not been established in controlled studies. Therefore, the physician who elects to use lurasidone hydrochloride for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 and 2.2 )]. 2.6 Dose Modifications Due to Drug Interactions of CYP3A4 Inhibitors and CYP3A4 Inducers Concomitant Use with CYP3A4 Inhibitors Lurasidone hydrochloride should not be used concomitantly with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole, clarithromycin, ritonavir, voriconazole, mibefradil, etc.) [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. If lurasidone hydrochloride is being prescribed and a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g. diltiazem, atazanavir, erythromycin, fluconazole, verapamil etc.) is added to the therapy, the lurasidone hydrochloride dose should be reduced to half of the original dose level. Similarly, if a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is being prescribed and lurasidone hydrochloride is added to the therapy, the recommended starting dose of lurasidone hydrochloride is 20 mg per day, and the maximum recommended dose of lurasidone hydrochloride is 80 mg per day [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. Grapefruit and grapefruit juice should be avoided in patients taking lurasidone hydrochloride, since these may inhibit CYP3A4 and alter lurasidone hydrochloride concentrations [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. Concomitant Use with CYP3A4 Inducers Lurasidone hydrochloride should not be used concomitantly with a strong CYP3A4 inducer (e.g., rifampin, avasimibe, St. If lurasidone hydrochloride is used concomitantly with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer, it may be necessary to increase the lurasidone hydrochloride dose after chronic treatment (7 days or more) with the CYP3A4 inducer. Administration with food substantially increases the absorption of lurasidone hydrochloride (2.3, 12.3). Indication Starting Dose Recommended Dose Bipolar Depression – adults (2.2) 20 mg per day 20 mg to 120 mg per day Bipolar Depression – pediatric patients (10 to 17 years) (2.2) 20 mg per day 20 mg to 80 mg per day Moderate and Severe Renal Impairment: Recommended starting dose is 20 mg per day, and the maximum recommended dose is 80 mg per day (2.4, 8.6). The maximum recommended dose is 80 mg per day in moderate hepatic impairment and 40 mg per day in severe hepatic impairment (2.5, 8.7). Concomitant Use of a Moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor (e . g., diltiazem) Lurasidone hydrochloride dose should be reduced to half of the original dose level. Maximum recommended dose is 80 mg per day (2.6, 7.1). Concomitant Use of a Moderate CYP3A4 Inducer: It may be necessary to increase the dose of lurasidone hydrochloride (2.6, 7.1). Lurasidone hydrochloride tablet has been shown to be effective in a dose range of 20 mg per day to 120 mg per day as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate [see Clinical Studies (14.2)] . In the monotherapy study, the higher dose range (80 mg to 120 mg per day) did not provide additional efficacy, on average, compared to the lower dose range (20 to 60 mg per day) [see Clinical Studies (14.2)] . Lurasidone hydrochloride tablet has been shown to be effective in a dose range of 20 mg per day to 80 mg per day as monotherapy. At the end of the clinical study, most of the patients (67%) received 20 mg or 40 mg once daily [see Clinical Studies (14.2)] . The efficacy of lurasidone hydrochloride tablet in the treatment of mania associated with bipolar disorder has not been established. 2.3 Administration Information Lurasidone hydrochloride tablet should be taken with food (at least 350 calories). In the clinical studies, lurasidone hydrochloride tablet was administered with food [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . The effectiveness of lurasidone hydrochloride tablet for longer-term use, that is, for more than 6 weeks, has not been established in controlled studies. Therefore, the physician who elects to use lurasidone hydrochloride tablet for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient [see Dosage and Administration (2.1 and 2.2)] . The dose in these patients should not exceed 80 mg per day [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]. The dose in moderate hepatic impairment patients should not exceed 80 mg per day and the dose in severe hepatic impairment patients should not exceed 40 per mg/day [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7)]. 2.6 Dose Modifications Due to Drug Interactions of CYP3A4 Inhibitors and CYP3A4 Inducers Concomitant Use with CYP3A4 Inhibitors Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets should not be used concomitantly with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole, clarithromycin, ritonavir, voriconazole, mibefradil, etc.) [see Contraindications (4)] . diltiazem, atazanavir, erythromycin, fluconazole, verapamil etc.) is added to the therapy, the lurasidone hydrochloride tablet dose should be reduced to half of the original dose level. Similarly, if a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is being prescribed and lurasidone hydrochloride tablet is added to the therapy, the recommended starting dose of lurasidone hydrochloride tablet is 20 mg per day, and the maximum recommended dose of lurasidone hydrochloride tablet is 80 mg per day [see Contraindications (4), Drug Interactions (7.1)] . Grapefruit and grapefruit juice should be avoided in patients taking lurasidone hydrochloride tablets, since these may inhibit CYP3A4 and alter lurasidone hydrochloride concentrations [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] . John’s wort, phenytoin, carbamazepine, etc.) [see Contraindications (4); Drug Interactions (7.1)] . If lurasidone hydrochloride tablet is used concomitantly with a moderate CYP3A4 inducer, it may be necessary to increase the lurasidone hydrochloride tablet dose after chronic treatment (7 days or more) with the CYP3A4 inducer. g., diltiazem): Lurasidone hydrochloride dose should be reduced to half of the original dose level. Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets have been shown to be effective in a dose range of 40 mg per day to 160 mg per day [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets have been shown to be effective in a dose range of 40 mg per day to 80 mg per day [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets have been shown to be effective in a dose range of 20 mg per day to 120 mg per day as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. In the monotherapy study, the higher dose range (80 mg to 120 mg per day) did not provide additional efficacy, on average, compared to the lower dose range (20 to 60 mg per day) [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. Pediatric Patients (10 to 17 years) The recommended starting dose of lurasidone hydrochloride tablets is 20 mg given once daily as monotherapy. At the end of the clinical study, most of the patients (67%) received 20 mg or 40 mg once daily [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. Administration with food increases the AUC approximately 2-fold and increases the Cmax approximately 3-fold. In the clinical studies, lurasidone hydrochloride tablets were administered with food [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Therefore, the physician who elects to use lurasidone hydrochloride tablets for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient [see Dosage and Administration (2.1 and 2.2)]. 2.6 Dose Modifications Due to Drug Interactions of CYP3A4 Inhibitors and CYP3A4 Inducers Concomitant Use with CYP3A4 Inhibitors Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets should not be used concomitantly with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole, clarithromycin, ritonavir, voriconazole, mibefradil, etc.) [see Contraindications (4)]. If lurasidone hydrochloride tablets are being prescribed and a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., diltiazem, atazanavir, erythromycin, fluconazole, verapamil etc.) is added to the therapy, the lurasidone hydrochloride tablets dose should be reduced to half of the original dose level. Similarly, if a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor is being prescribed and lurasidone hydrochloride tablets are added to the therapy, the recommended starting dose of lurasidone hydrochloride tablets is 20 mg per day, and the maximum recommended dose of lurasidone hydrochloride tablets is 80 mg per day [see Contraindications (4), Drug Interactions (7.1)]. Grapefruit and grapefruit juice should be avoided in patients taking lurasidone hydrochloride tablets, since these may inhibit CYP3A4 and alter lurasidone hydrochloride tablets concentrations [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. John’s wort, phenytoin, carbamazepine, etc.) [see Contraindications (4); Drug Interactions (7.1)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Lurasidone hydrochloride should be taken with food (at least 350 calories).
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Known hypersensitivity to lurasidone HCl or any components in the formulation. Angioedema has been observed with lurasidone [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. • Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, clarithromycin, ritonavir, voriconazole, mibefradil, etc.) [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. • Strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., rifampin, avasimibe, St. John’s wort, phenytoin, carbamazepine, etc.) [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. • Known hypersensitivity to lurasidone hydrochloride tablets or any components in the formulation ( 4 ). • Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole) ( 2.6 , 4 , 7.1 ). • Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inducer (e.g., rifampin) ( 2.6 , 4 , 7.1 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to lurasidone HCl or any components in the formulation. Angioedema has been observed with lurasidone [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, clarithromycin, ritonavir, voriconazole, mibefradil, etc.) [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., rifampin, avasimibe, St. John’s wort, phenytoin, carbamazepine, etc.) [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Known hypersensitivity to lurasidone hydrochloride or any components in the formulation ( 4 ). Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole) ( 2.6 , 4 , 7.1 ). Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inducer (e.g., rifampin) ( 2.6 , 4 , 7.1 ). • Known hypersensitivity to lurasidone hydrochloride or any components in the formulation ( 4 ). Angioedema has been observed with lurasidone [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, clarithromycin, ritonavir, voriconazole, mibefradil, etc.) [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] . John’s wort, phenytoin, carbamazepine, etc.) [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. Known hypersensitivity to lurasidone hydrochloride tablets or any components in the formulation (4). Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole) (2.6, 4, 7.1). Concomitant use with a strong CYP3A4 inducer (e.g., rifampin) (2.6, 4, 7.1). Known hypersensitivity to lurasidone hydrochloride or any components in the formulation. Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, clarithromycin, ritonavir, voriconazole, mibefradil, etc.) [see Drug Interactions (7.1)].
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Lurasidone Hydrochloride Table 34: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Lurasidone Hydrochloride Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of lurasidone hydrochloride with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the exposure of lurasidone compared to the use of lurasidone hydrochloride alone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: Lurasidone hydrochloride should not be used concomitantly with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. Examples: Ketoconazole, clarithromycin, ritonavir, voriconazole, mibefradil Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of lurasidone hydrochloride with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the exposure of lurasidone compared to the use of lurasidone hydrochloride alone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: Lurasidone hydrochloride dose should be reduced to half of the original level when used concomitantly with moderate inhibitors of CYP3A4 [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )]. Examples: Diltiazem, atazanavir, erythromycin, fluconazole, verapamil Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of lurasidone hydrochloride with strong CYP3A4 inducers decreased the exposure of lurasidone compared to the use of lurasidone hydrochloride alone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: Lurasidone hydrochloride should not be used concomitantly with strong CYP3A4 inducers [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. Examples: Rifampin, avasimibe, St. John’s wort, phenytoin, carbamazepine Moderate CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of lurasidone hydrochloride with moderate CYP3A4 inducers decreased the exposure of lurasidone compared to the use of lurasidone hydrochloride alone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: Lurasidone hydrochloride dose should be increased when used concomitantly with moderate inducers of CYP3A4 [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )]. Examples: Bosentan, efavirenz, etravirine, modafinil, nafcillin 7.2 Drugs Having No Clinically Important Interactions with Lurasidone Hydrochloride Based on pharmacokinetic studies, no dosage adjustment of lurasidone hydrochloride is required when administered concomitantly with lithium, valproate, or substrates of P-gp or CYP3A4 [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Lurasidone Table 34: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Lurasidone Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of lurasidone hydrochloride tablets with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the exposure of lurasidone compared to the use of lurasidone hydrochloride tablets alone [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets should not be used concomitantly with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [ see Contraindications (4) ]. Examples: Ketoconazole, clarithromycin, ritonavir, voriconazole, mibefradil Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of lurasidone hydrochloride tablets with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the exposure of lurasidone compared to the use of lurasidone hydrochloride tablets alone [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets dose should be reduced to half of the original level when used concomitantly with moderate inhibitors of CYP3A4 [ see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ]. Examples: Diltiazem, atazanavir, erythromycin, fluconazole, verapamil Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of lurasidone hydrochloride tablets with strong CYP3A4 inducers decreased the exposure of lurasidone compared to the use of lurasidone hydrochloride tablets alone [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets should not be used concomitantly with strong CYP3A4 inducers [ see Contraindications (4) ]. John's wort, phenytoin, carbamazepine Moderate CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of lurasidone hydrochloride tablets with moderate CYP3A4 inducers decreased the exposure of lurasidone compared to the use of lurasidone hydrochloride tablets alone [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Lurasidone hydrochloride tablets dose should be increased when used concomitantly with moderate inducers of CYP3A4 [ see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ]. Examples: Bosentan, efavirenz, etravirine, modafinil, nafcillin 7.2 Drugs Having No Clinically Important Interactions with Lurasidone ​ Based on pharmacokinetic studies, no dosage adjustment of lurasidone hydrochloride is required when administered concomitantly with lithium, valproate, or substrates of P-gp or CYP3A4 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Lurasidone Hydrochloride Table 34: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Lurasidone Hydrochloride Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of lurasidone hydrochloride with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the exposure of lurasidone compared to the use of lurasidone hydrochloride alone [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Intervention: Lurasidone hydrochloride should not be used concomitantly with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ]. Examples: Ketoconazole, clarithromycin, ritonavir, voriconazole, mibefradil Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of lurasidone hydrochloride with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the exposure of lurasidone compared to the use of lurasidone hydrochloride alone [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Intervention: Lurasidone hydrochloride dose should be reduced to half of the original level when used concomitantly with moderate inhibitors of CYP3A4 [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ) ]. Examples: Diltiazem, atazanavir, erythromycin, fluconazole, verapamil Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of lurasidone hydrochloride with strong CYP3A4 inducers decreased the exposure of lurasidone compared to the use of lurasidone hydrochloride alone [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Intervention: Lurasidone hydrochloride should not be used concomitantly with strong CYP3A4 inducers [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ]. John's wort, phenytoin, carbamazepine Moderate CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of lurasidone hydrochloride with moderate CYP3A4 inducers decreased the exposure of lurasidone compared to the use of lurasidone hydrochloride alone [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Intervention: Lurasidone hydrochloride dose should be increased when used concomitantly with moderate inducers of CYP3A4 [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Lurasidone Hydrochloride Table 34: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Lurasidone Hydrochloride Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of lurasidone hydrochloride with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the exposure of lurasidone compared to the use of lurasidone hydrochloride alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Intervention: Lurasidone hydrochloride should not be used concomitantly with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Contraindications (4)] . Examples: Ketoconazole, clarithromycin, ritonavir, voriconazole, mibefradil Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of lurasidone hydrochloride with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the exposure of lurasidone compared to the use of lurasidone hydrochloride alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Intervention: Lurasidone hydrochloride dose should be reduced to half of the original level when used concomitantly with moderate inhibitors of CYP3A4 [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)] . Examples: Diltiazem, atazanavir, erythromycin, fluconazole, verapamil Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of lurasidone hydrochloride with strong CYP3A4 inducers decreased the exposure of lurasidone compared to the use of lurasidone hydrochloride alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Intervention: Lurasidone hydrochloride should not be used concomitantly with strong CYP3A4 inducers [see Contraindications (4)] . John’s wort, phenytoin, carbamazepine Moderate CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of lurasidone hydrochloride with moderate CYP3A4 inducers decreased the exposure of lurasidone compared to the use of lurasidone hydrochloride alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Intervention: Lurasidone hydrochloride dose should be increased when used concomitantly with moderate inducers of CYP3A4 [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)] . Examples: Bosentan, efavirenz, etravirine, modafinil, nafcillin 7.2 Drugs Having No Clinically Important Interactions with Lurasidone Hydrochloride Based on pharmacokinetic studies, no dosage adjustment of lurasidone hydrochloride is required when administered concomitantly with lithium, valproate, or substrates of P-gp or CYP3A4 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with Lurasidone Hydrochloride Table 34: Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Lurasidone Hydrochloride Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of lurasidone hydrochloride with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the exposure of lurasidone compared to the use of lurasidone hydrochloride alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Intervention: Lurasidone hydrochloride should not be used concomitantly with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Contraindications (4)]. Examples: Ketoconazole, clarithromycin, ritonavir, voriconazole, mibefradil Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of lurasidone hydrochloride with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors increased the exposure of lurasidone compared to the use of lurasidone hydrochloride alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Intervention: Lurasidone hydrochloride dose should be reduced to half of the original level when used concomitantly with moderate inhibitors of CYP3A4 [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)]. Examples: Diltiazem, atazanavir, erythromycin, fluconazole, verapamil Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of lurasidone hydrochloride with strong CYP3A4 inducers decreased the exposure of lurasidone compared to the use of lurasidone hydrochloride alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Intervention: Lurasidone hydrochloride should not be used concomitantly with strong CYP3A4 inducers [see Contraindications (4)]. John’s wort, phenytoin, carbamazepine Moderate CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of lurasidone hydrochloride with moderate CYP3A4 inducers decreased the exposure of lurasidone compared to the use of lurasidone hydrochloride alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Intervention: Lurasidone hydrochloride dose should be increased when used concomitantly with moderate inducers of CYP3A4 [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)]. Examples: Bosentan, efavirenz, etravirine, modafinil, nafcillin 7.2 Drugs Having No Clinically Important Interactions with Lurasidone Hydrochloride Based on pharmacokinetic studies, no dosage adjustment of lurasidone hydrochloride is required when administered concomitantly with lithium, valproate, or substrates of P-gp or CYP3A4 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].

=== QUETIAPINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Quetiapine is an atypical antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of: Schizophrenia ( 1.1 ) Bipolar I disorder manic episodes ( 1.2 ) Bipolar disorder, depressive episodes ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Schizophrenia Quetiapine is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. The efficacy of quetiapine in schizophrenia was established in three 6-week trials in adults and one 6-week trial in adolescents (13 to 17 years). The effectiveness of quetiapine for the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1.2 Bipolar Disorder Quetiapine is indicated for the acute treatment of manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, both as monotherapy and as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex. Efficacy was established in two 12-week monotherapy trials in adults, in one 3-week adjunctive trial in adults, and in one 3-week monotherapy trial in pediatric patients (10 to 17 years) [ see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Quetiapine is indicated as monotherapy for the acute treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar disorder. Efficacy was established in two 8-week monotherapy trials in adult patients with bipolar I and bipolar II disorder [ see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Quetiapine is indicated for the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder, as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex. Efficacy was established in two maintenance trials in adults. The effectiveness of quetiapine as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of bipolar disorder has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials [ see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1.3 Special Considerations in Treating Pediatric Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder Pediatric schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder are serious mental disorders, however, diagnosis can be challenging. For pediatric schizophrenia, symptom profiles can be variable, and for bipolar I disorder, patients may have variable patterns of periodicity of manic or mixed symptoms. It is recommended that medication therapy for pediatric schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder be initiated only after a thorough diagnostic evaluation has been performed and careful consideration given to the risks associated with medication treatment. Medication treatment for both pediatric schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder is indicated as part of a total treatment program that often includes psychological, educational and social interventions. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Quetiapine tablet is an atypical antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of: Schizophrenia ( 1.1 ) Bipolar I disorder manic episodes ( 1.2 ) Bipolar disorder, depressive episodes ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Schizophrenia Quetiapine tablets are indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. The efficacy of quetiapine tablets in schizophrenia was established in three 6-week trials in adults and one 6-week trial in adolescents (13 to 17 years). The effectiveness of quetiapine tablets for the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.1 )]. 1.2 Bipolar Disorder Quetiapine tablets are indicated for the acute treatment of manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, both as monotherapy and as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex. Efficacy was established in two 12-week monotherapy trials in adults, in one 3-week adjunctive trial in adults, and in one 3-week monotherapy trial in pediatric patients (10 to 17 years) [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.2 )]. Quetiapine tablets are indicated as monotherapy for the acute treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar disorder. Efficacy was established in two 8-week monotherapy trials in adult patients with bipolar I and bipolar II disorder [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.2 )]. Quetiapine tablets are indicated for the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder, as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex. The effectiveness of quetiapine tablets as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of bipolar disorder has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.2 )]. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Quetiapine is an atypical antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of: · Schizophrenia ( 1.1 ) · Bipolar I disorder manic episodes ( 1.2 ) · Bipolar disorder, depressive episodes ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Schizophrenia Quetiapine is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Quetiapine extended-release tablets are an atypical antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of: Schizophrenia (1.1) Bipolar I disorder, manic or mixed episodes (1.2) Bipolar disorder, depressive episodes (1.2) Major depressive disorder, adjunctive therapy with antidepressants (1.3) 1.1 Schizophrenia Quetiapine extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. The efficacy of quetiapine extended-release tablets in schizophrenia was established in one 6-week and one maintenance trial in adults with schizophrenia. Efficacy was supported by three 6-week trials in adults with schizophrenia and one 6-week trial in adolescents with schizophrenia (13 to 17 years) treated with SEROQUEL [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1.2 Bipolar Disorder Quetiapine extended-release tablets are indicated for the acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, both as monotherapy and as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex. The efficacy of quetiapine extended-release tablets in manic or mixed episodes of bipolar I disorder was established in one 3-week trial in adults with manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder. Efficacy was supported by two 12-week monotherapy trials and one 3-week adjunctive trial in adults with manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder as well as one 3-week monotherapy trial in children and adolescents (10 to 17 years) with manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder treated with SEROQUEL [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Quetiapine extended-release tablets are indicated for the acute treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar disorder. The efficacy of quetiapine extended-release tablets was established in one 8-week trial in adults with bipolar I or II disorder and supported by two 8-week trials in adults with bipolar I or II disorder treated with SEROQUEL [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Quetiapine extended-release tablets are indicated for the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder, as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex. Efficacy was extrapolated from two maintenance trials in adults with bipolar I disorder treated with SEROQUEL. The effectiveness of monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1.3 Adjunctive Treatment of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) Quetiapine extended-release tablets are indicated for use as adjunctive therapy to antidepressants for the treatment of MDD. The efficacy of quetiapine extended-release tablets as adjunctive therapy to antidepressants in MDD was established in two 6-week trials in adults with MDD who had an inadequate response to antidepressant treatment [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. 1.4 Special Considerations in Treating Pediatric Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder Pediatric schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder are serious mental disorders, however, diagnosis can be challenging. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE SEROQUEL is an atypical antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of: • Schizophrenia ( 1.1 ) • Bipolar I disorder manic episodes (1.2) • Bipolar disorder, depressive episodes (1.2) 1.1 Schizophrenia SEROQUEL is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. The efficacy of SEROQUEL in schizophrenia was established in three 6-week trials in adults and one 6-week trial in adolescents (13-17 years). The effectiveness of SEROQUEL for the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1.2 Bipolar Disorder SEROQUEL is indicated for the acute treatment of manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, both as monotherapy and as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex. Efficacy was established in two 12-week monotherapy trials in adults, in one 3-week adjunctive trial in adults, and in one 3-week monotherapy trial in pediatric patients (10-17 years) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. SEROQUEL is indicated as monotherapy for the acute treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar disorder. Efficacy was established in two 8-week monotherapy trials in adult patients with bipolar I and bipolar II disorder [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. SEROQUEL is indicated for the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder, as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex. The effectiveness of SEROQUEL as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of bipolar disorder has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Quetiapine tablets are an atypical antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of: Schizophrenia ( 1.1 ) Bipolar I disorder manic episodes ( 1.2 ) Bipolar disorder, depressive episodes ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Schizophrenia Quetiapine tablets are indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. The effectiveness of quetiapine tablets for the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. Efficacy was established in two 12-week monotherapy trials in adults, in one 3-week adjunctive trial in adults, and in one 3-week monotherapy trial in pediatric patients (10 to 17 years) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ]. Efficacy was established in two 8-week monotherapy trials in adult patients with bipolar I and bipolar II disorder [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ]. The effectiveness of quetiapine tablets as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of bipolar disorder has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ]. Efficacy was supported by three 6-week trials in adults with schizophrenia and one 6-week trial in adolescents with schizophrenia (13 to 17 years) treated with quetiapine tablets [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Efficacy was supported by two 12-week monotherapy trials and one 3-week adjunctive trial in adults with manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder as well as one 3-week monotherapy trial in children and adolescents (10 to 17 years) with manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder treated with quetiapine tablets [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. The efficacy of quetiapine extended-release tablets was established in one 8-week trial in adults with bipolar I or II disorder and supported by two 8- week trials in adults with bipolar I or II disorder treated with quetiapine tablets [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Efficacy was extrapolated from two maintenance trials in adults with bipolar I disorder treated with quetiapine tablets. 1.1 Schizophrenia Quetiapine extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. Efficacy was supported by three 6-week trials in adults with schizophrenia and one 6-week trial in adolescents with schizophrenia (13 to 17 years) treated with quetiapine tablets [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.1)]. Efficacy was supported by two 12-week monotherapy trials and one 3-week adjunctive trial in adults with manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder as well as one 3-week monotherapy trial in children and adolescents (10 to 17 years) with manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder treated with quetiapine tablets [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.2)]. The efficacy of quetiapine extended-release tablets was established in one 8-week trial in adults with bipolar I or II disorder and supported by two 8-week trials in adults with bipolar I or II disorder treated with quetiapine tablets [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.2)]. The effectiveness of monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.2)]. The efficacy of quetiapine extended-release tablets as adjunctive therapy to antidepressants in MDD was established in two 6-week trials in adults with MDD who had an inadequate response to antidepressant treatment [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.3)]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Quetiapine tablets are an atypical antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of: Schizophrenia (1.1) Bipolar I disorder manic episodes (1.2) Bipolar disorder, depressive episodes (1.2) 1.1 Schizophrenia Quetiapine tablets are indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. The effectiveness of quetiapine tablets for the maintenance treatment of schizophrenia has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Efficacy was established in two 12-week monotherapy trials in adults, in one 3-week adjunctive trial in adults, and in one 3-week monotherapy trial in pediatric patients (10 to 17 years) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Efficacy was established in two 8-week monotherapy trials in adult patients with bipolar I and bipolar II disorder [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . The effectiveness of quetiapine tablets as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of bipolar disorder has not been systematically evaluated in controlled clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] .
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION · Quetiapine tablets, USP can be taken with or without food ( 2.1 ) Indication Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia-Adults (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 150 to 750 mg/day 750 mg/day Schizophrenia-Adolescents (13 to 17 years) (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex (2.2) 50 mg twice daily 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years), Monotherapy (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Depression-Adults (2.2) 50 mg once daily at bedtime 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Geriatric Use: Consider a lower starting dose (50 mg/day), slower titration and careful monitoring during the initial dosing period in the elderly ( 2.3 , 8.5 ) Hepatic Impairment: Lower starting dose (25 mg/day) and slower titration may be needed ( 2.4 , 8.7 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Quetiapine tablets, USP can be taken with or without food. 2.2 Recommended Dosing The recommended initial dose, titration, dose range and maximum quetiapine dose for each approved indication is displayed in Table 1. After initial dosing, adjustments can be made upwards or downwards, if necessary, depending upon the clinical response and tolerability of the patient [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 and 14.2 ) ]. Table 1: Recommended Dosing for quetiapine Indication Initial Dose and Titration Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia-Adults Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. Increase in increments of 25 mg-50 mg divided two or three times on Days 2 and 3 to range of 300 to 400 mg by Day 4. Further adjustments can be made in increments of 25 to 50 mg twice a day, in intervals of not less than 2 days. 150 to 750 mg/day 750 mg/day Schizophrenia- Adolescents (13 to 17 years) Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. Day 2: Twice daily dosing totaling 100 mg. Day 3: Twice daily dosing totaling 200 mg. Day 4: Twice daily dosing totaling 300 mg. Day 5: Twice daily dosing totaling 400 mg. Further adjustments should be in increments no greater than 100 mg/day within the recommended dose range of 400-800 mg/day. Based on response and tolerability, may be administered three times daily. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia-Maintenance Not applicable. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex Day 1: Twice daily dosing totaling 100 mg. Day 2: Twice daily dosing totaling 200 mg. Day 3: Twice daily dosing totaling 300 mg. Day 4: Twice daily dosing totaling 400 mg. Further dosage adjustments up to 800 mg/day by Day 6 should be in increments of no greater than 200 mg/day. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years), Monotherapy Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. Further adjustments should be in increments no greater than 100 mg/day within the recommended dose range of 400-600 mg/day. 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Depression- Adults Administer once daily at bedtime. Day 1: 50 mg Day 2: 100 mg Day 3: 200 mg Day 4: 300 mg 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Therapy- Adults Administer twice daily totaling 400-800 mg/day as adjunct to lithium or divalproex. Generally, in the maintenance phase, patients continued on the same dose on which they were stabilized. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Maintenance Treatment for Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Treatment– Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . 2.3 Dose Modifications in Elderly Patients Consideration should be given to a slower rate of dose titration and a lower target dose in the elderly and in patients who are debilitated or who have a predisposition to hypotensive reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . When indicated, dose escalation should be performed with caution in these patients. Elderly patients should be started on quetiapine 50 mg/day and the dose can be increased in increments of 50 mg/day depending on the clinical response and tolerability of the individual patient. 2.4 Dose Modifications in Hepatically Impaired Patients Patients with hepatic impairment should be started on 25 mg/day. The dose should be increased daily in increments of 25 mg/day - 50 mg/day to an effective dose, depending on the clinical response and tolerability of the patient. 2.5 Dose Modifications when used with CYP3A4 Inhibitors Quetiapine dose should be reduced to one sixth of original dose when co-medicated with a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, indinavir, ritonavir, nefazodone, etc.). When the CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine should be increased by 6-fold [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . 2.6 Dose Modifications when used with CYP3A4 Inducers Quetiapine dose should be increased up to 5-fold of the original dose when used in combination with a chronic treatment (e.g., greater than 7 to 14 days) of a potent CYP3A4 inducer (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin, avasimibe, St. John’s wort etc.). The dose should be titrated based on the clinical response and tolerability of the individual patient. When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine should be reduced to the original level within 7-14 days [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . 2.7 Re-initiation of Treatment in Patients Previously Discontinued Although there are no data to specifically address re-initiation of treatment, it is recommended that when restarting therapy of patients who have been off quetiapine for more than one- week, the initial dosing schedule should be followed. When restarting patients who have been off quetiapine for less than one-week, gradual dose escalation may not be required and the maintenance dose may be re-initiated. 2.8 Switching from Antipsychotics There are no systematically collected data to specifically address switching patients with schizophrenia from antipsychotics to quetiapine, or concerning concomitant administration with antipsychotics. While immediate discontinuation of the previous antipsychotic treatment may be acceptable for some patients with schizophrenia, more gradual discontinuation may be most appropriate for others. In all cases, the period of overlapping antipsychotic administration should be minimized. When switching patients with schizophrenia from depot antipsychotics, if medically appropriate, initiate quetiapine therapy in place of the next scheduled injection. The need for continuing existing EPS medication should be re-evaluated periodically. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Quetiapine tablets can be taken with or without food ( 2.1 ). Indication Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia-Adults ( 2.2 ) 25 mg twice daily 150 to 750 mg/day 750 mg/day Schizophrenia-Adolescents (13 to 17 years) ( 2.2 ) 25 mg twice daily 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex ( 2.2 ) 50 mg twice daily 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania-Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years), Monotherapy ( 2.2 ) 25 mg twice daily 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Depression-Adults ( 2.2 ) 50 mg once daily at bedtime 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Geriatric Use : Consider a lower starting dose (50 mg/day), slower titration and careful monitoring during the initial dosing period in the elderly ( 2.3 , 8.5 ) Hepatic Impairment : Lower starting dose (25 mg/day) and slower titration may be needed ( 2.4 , 8.7 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Quetiapine tablets can be taken with or without food. After initial dosing, adjustments can be made upwards or downwards, if necessary, depending upon the clinical response and tolerability of the patient [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.1 and 14.2 )]. Table 1: Recommended Dosing for Quetiapine Tablets Indication Initial Dose and Titration Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia-Adults Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. Increase in increments of 25 mg to 50 mg divided two or three times on Days 2 and 3 to range of 300 to 400 mg by Day 4. 150 to 750 mg/day 750 mg/day Schizophrenia-Adolescents (13 to 17 years) Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. Further adjustments should be in increments no greater than 100 mg/day within the recommended dose range of 400 to 800 mg/day. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia-Maintenance Not applicable 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex Day 1: Twice daily dosing totaling 100 mg. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania-Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years), Monotherapy Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. Further adjustments should be in increments no greater than 100 mg/day within the recommended dose range of 400 to 600 mg/day. 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Depression-Adults Administer once daily at bedtime. Day 1: 50 mg Day 2: 100 mg Day 3: 200 mg Day 4: 300 mg 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Therapy-Adults Administer twice daily totaling 400 to 800 mg/day as adjunct to lithium or divalproex. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Maintenance Treatment for Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Treatment: Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.2 )]. 2.3 Dose Modifications in Elderly Patients Consideration should be given to a slower rate of dose titration and a lower target dose in the elderly and in patients who are debilitated or who have a predisposition to hypotensive reactions [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. The dose should be increased daily in increments of 25 mg/day to 50 mg/day to an effective dose, depending on the clinical response and tolerability of the patients. When the CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine should be increased by 6 fold [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 ) and DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7.1 )]. John's wort etc.). When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine should be reduced to the original level within 7 to 14 days [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 ) and DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7.1 )]. 2.7 Re-initiation of Treatment in Patients Previously Discontinued Although there are no data to specifically address re-initiation of treatment, it is recommended that when restarting therapy of patients who have been off quetiapine for more than one-week, the initial dosing schedule should be followed. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION · Quetiapine tablets, USP can be taken with or without food ( 2.1 ) Indication Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia-Adults (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 150 to 750 mg/day 750 mg/day Schizophrenia-Adolescents (13 to 17 years)(2.2) 25 mg twice daily 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex (2.2) 50 mg twice daily 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years), Monotherapy(2.2) 25 mg twice daily 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Depression-Adults (2.2) 50 mg once daily at bedtime 300 mg/day 300 mg/day · Geriatric Use: Consider a lower starting dose (50 mg/day), slower titration and careful monitoring during the initial dosing period in the elderly ( 2.3 , 8.5 ) · Hepatic Impairment: Lower starting dose (25 mg/day) and slower titration may be needed ( 2.4 , 8.7 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Quetiapine tablets, USP can be taken with or without food. Increase in increments of 25 mg-50 mg divided two or three times on Days 2 and 3 to range of 300 to 400 mg by Day 4 Further adjustments can be made in increments of 25 to 50 mg twice a day, in intervals of not less than 2 days. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia-Maintenance N/A 1 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex Day 1: Twice daily dosing totaling 100 mg. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day 1. N/A Not applicable Maintenance Treatment for Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Treatment– Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . When the CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine should be increased by 6 fold [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . 2.7 Re-initiation of Treatment in Patients Previously Discontinued Although there are no data to specifically address re-initiation of treatment, it is recommended that when restarting therapy of patients who have been off quetiapine for more than one week, the initial dosing schedule should be followed. When restarting patients who have been off quetiapine for less than one week, gradual dose escalation may not be required and the maintenance dose may be re-initiated. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Swallow tablets whole and do not split, chew or crush (2.1) Take without food or with a light meal (approx. 300 calories) (2.1) Administer once daily, preferably in the evening (2.1) Geriatric Use: Consider a lower starting dose (50 mg/day), slower titration, and careful monitoring during the initial dosing period in the elderly. ( 2.3 , 8.5 ) Hepatic Impairment: Lower starting dose (50 mg/day) and slower titration may be needed ( 2.4 , 8.7 , 12.3 ) Indication Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia-Adults (2.2) 300 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia-Adolescents (13 to 17 years) (2.2) 50 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder manic or mixed-Acute monotherapy or adjunct to lithium or divalproex-Adults (2.2) 300 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder, manic Acute monotherapy-Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years) (2.2) 50 mg/day 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Disorder, Depressive Episodes-Adults (2.2) 50 mg/day 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Major Depressive Disorder, Adjunctive Therapy with Antidepressants-Adults (2.2) 50 mg/day 150 to 300 mg/day 300 mg/day 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Quetiapine extended-release tablets should be swallowed whole and not split, chewed or crushed. It is recommended that quetiapine extended-release tablets be taken without food or with a light meal (approximately 300 calories) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Quetiapine extended-release tablets should be administered once daily, preferably in the evening. 2.2 Recommended Dosing The recommended initial dose, titration, dose range and maximum quetiapine extended-release tablets dose for each approved indication is displayed in Table 1 below. After initial dosing, adjustments can be made upwards or downwards, if necessary, depending upon the clinical response and tolerability of the patient [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 , 14.2 and 14.3 )]. Table 1: Recommended Dosing for Quetiapine extended-release tablets Indication Initial Dose and Titration Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia- Adults Day 1: 300 mg/day Dose increases can be made at intervals as short as 1 day and in increments of up to 300 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia-Adolescents (13 to 17 years) Day 1: 50 mg/day Day 2: 100 mg/day Day 3: 200 mg/day Day 4: 300 mg/day Day 5: 400 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia Maintenance-Monotherapy-Adults Not applicable 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder manic or mixed-Acute monotherapy or adjunct to lithium or divalproex-Adults Day 1: 300 mg/day Day 2: 600 mg/day Day 3: between 400 and 800 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder, manic Acute monotherapy-Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years) Day 1: 50 mg/day Day 2: 100 mg/day Day 3: 200 mg/day Day 4: 300 mg/day Day 5: 400 mg/day 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Disorder, Depressive Episodes-Adults Day 1: 50 mg/day Day 2: 100 mg/day Day 3: 200 mg/day Day 4: 300 mg/day 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance- Adjunct to lithium or divalproex-Adults Not applicable 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Major Depressive Disorder- Adjunctive Therapy with Antidepressants-Adults Day 1: 50 mg/day Day 2: 50 mg/day Day 3: 150 mg/day 150 to 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Maintenance Treatment for Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Treatment —Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 , 14.2 )]. 2.3 Dose Modifications in Elderly Patients Consideration should be given to a slower rate of dose titration and a lower target dose in the elderly and in patients who are debilitated or who have a predisposition to hypotensive reactions [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 , 8.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Elderly patients should be started on quetiapine extended-release tablets 50 mg/day and the dose can be increased in increments of 50 mg/day depending on the clinical response and tolerability of the individual patient. 2.4 Dose Modifications in Hepatically Impaired Patients Patients with hepatic impairment should be started on quetiapine extended-release tablets 50 mg/day. The dose can be increased daily in increments of 50 mg/day to an effective dose, depending on the clinical response and tolerability of the patient. 2.5 Dose Modifications when used with CYP3A4 Inhibitors Quetiapine extended-release tablets dose should be reduced to one-sixth of original dose when co-medicated with a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, indinavir, ritonavir, nefazodone, etc.). When the CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine extended-release tablets should be increased by 6-fold [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 2.6 Dose Modifications when used with CYP3A4 Inducers Quetiapine extended-release tablets dose should be increased up to 5-fold of the original dose when used in combination with a chronic treatment (e.g., greater than 7 to 14 days) of a potent CYP3A4 inducer (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin, avasimibe, St. The dose should be titrated based on the clinical response and tolerance of the individual patient. When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine extended-release tablets should be reduced to the original level within 7 to 14 days [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 2.7 Re-initiation of Treatment in Patients Previously Discontinued Although there are no data to specifically address re-initiation of treatment, it is recommended that when restarting therapy of patients who have been off quetiapine extended-release tablets for more than one-week, the initial dosing schedule should be followed. When restarting patients who have been off quetiapine extended-release tablets for less than one-week, gradual dose escalation may not be required and the maintenance dose may be re-initiated. 2.8 Switching Patients from SEROQUEL to Quetiapine Extended-release Tablets Patients who are currently being treated with SEROQUEL (immediate release formulation) may be switched to quetiapine extended-release tablets at the equivalent total daily dose taken once daily. Individual dosage adjustments may be necessary. 2.9 Switching from Antipsychotics There are no systematically collected data to specifically address switching patients from other antipsychotics to quetiapine extended-release tablets, or concerning concomitant administration with other antipsychotics. While immediate discontinuation of the previous antipsychotic treatment may be acceptable for some patients, more gradual discontinuation may be most appropriate for others. When switching patients from depot antipsychotics, if medically appropriate, initiate quetiapine extended-release tablets therapy in place of the next scheduled injection. The need for continuing existing extrapyramidal syndrome medication should be re-evaluated periodically. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • SEROQUEL can be taken with or without food (2.1) Indication Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia - Adults (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 150-750 mg/day 750 mg/day Schizophrenia - Adolescents (13-17 years) (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 400-800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania - Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex (2.2) 50 mg twice daily 400-800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania - Children and Adolescents (10-17 years), Monotherapy (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 400-600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Depression - Adults (2.2) 50 mg once daily at bedtime 300 mg/day 300 mg/day • Geriatric Use : Consider a lower starting dose (50 mg/day), slower titration and careful monitoring during the initial dosing period in the elderly ( 2.3 , 8.5 ) • Hepatic Impairment : Lower starting dose (25 mg/day) and slower titration may be needed ( 2.4 , 8.7 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions SEROQUEL can be taken with or without food. 2.2 Recommended Dosing The recommended initial dose, titration, dose range and maximum SEROQUEL dose for each approved indication is displayed in Table 1. Table 1: Recommended Dosing for SEROQUEL Indication Initial Dose and Titration Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia - Adults Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. Increase in increments of 25 mg-50 mg divided two or three times on Days 2 and 3 to range of 300-400 mg by Day 4. Further adjustments can be made in increments of 25–50 mg twice a day, in intervals of not less than 2 days. 150-750 mg/day 750 mg/day Schizophrenia - Adolescents (13-17 years) Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. 400-800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia - Maintenance Not applicable. 400-800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania - Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex Day 1: Twice daily dosing totaling 100 mg. 400-800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania - Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years), Monotherapy Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. 400-600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Depression - Adults Administer once daily at bedtime. Day 1: 50 mg Day 2: 100 mg Day 3: 200 mg Day 4: 300 mg 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Therapy - Adults Administer twice daily totaling 400-800 mg/day as adjunct to lithium or divalproex. 400-800 mg/day 800 mg/day Maintenance Treatment for Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Treatment – Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 2.3 Dose Modifications in Elderly Patients Consideration should be given to a slower rate of dose titration and a lower target dose in the elderly and in patients who are debilitated or who have a predisposition to hypotensive reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Elderly patients should be started on SEROQUEL 50 mg/day and the dose can be increased in increments of 50 mg/day depending on the clinical response and tolerability of the individual patient. 2.5 Dose Modifications when used with CYP3A4 Inhibitors SEROQUEL dose should be reduced to one sixth of original dose when co-medicated with a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, indinavir, ritonavir, nefazodone, etc.). When the CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, the dose of SEROQUEL should be increased by 6-fold [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 2.6 Dose Modifications when used with CYP3A4 Inducers SEROQUEL dose should be increased up to 5-fold of the original dose when used in combination with a chronic treatment (e.g., greater than 7-14 days) of a potent CYP3A4 inducer (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin, avasimibe, St. When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of SEROQUEL should be reduced to the original level within 7-14 days [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 2.7 Re-initiation of Treatment in Patients Previously Discontinued Although there are no data to specifically address re-initiation of treatment, it is recommended that when restarting therapy of patients who have been off SEROQUEL for more than one-week, the initial dosing schedule should be followed. When restarting patients who have been off SEROQUEL for less than one-week, gradual dose escalation may not be required and the maintenance dose may be re-initiated. 2.8 Switching from Antipsychotics There are no systematically collected data to specifically address switching patients with schizophrenia from antipsychotics to SEROQUEL, or concerning concomitant administration with antipsychotics. When switching patients with schizophrenia from depot antipsychotics, if medically appropriate, initiate SEROQUEL therapy in place of the next scheduled injection. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia-Adults ( 2.2 ) 25 mg twice daily 150-750 mg/day 750 mg/day Schizophrenia-Adolescents (13-17 years) ( 2.2 ) 25 mg twice daily 400-800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania-Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex ( 2.2 ) 50 mg twice daily 400–800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Children and Adolescents (10 - 17 years), Monotherapy ( 2.2 ) 25 mg twice daily 400-600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Depression-Adults ( 2.2 ) 50 mg once daily at bedtime 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Geriatric Use: Consider a lower starting dose (50 mg/day), slower titration and careful monitoring during the initial dosing period in the elderly ( 2.3 , 8.5 ) Hepatic Impairment: Lower starting dose (25 mg/day) and slower titration may be needed ( 2.4 , 8.7 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Quetiapine tablets can be taken with or without food. 2.2 Recommended Dosing The recommended initial dose, titration, dose range and maximum quetiapine tablets dose for each approved indication is displayed in Table 1. Further adjustments can be made in increments of 25 – 50 mg twice a day, in intervals of not less than 2 days. 150-750 mg/day 750 mg/day Schizophrenia- Adolescents (13-17 years) Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. 400-800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia-Maintenance Not applicable. 400– 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex Day 1: Twice daily dosing totaling 100 mg. 400– 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years), Monotherapy Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. 400-600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Depression- Adults Administer once daily at bedtime. Day 1: 50 mg Day 2: 100 mg Day 3: 200 mg Day 4: 300 mg 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Therapy-Adults Administer twice daily totaling 400-800 mg/day as adjunct to lithium or divalproex. 400-800 mg/day 800 mg/day Maintenance Treatment for Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Treatment – Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ]. 2.3 Dose Modifications in Elderly Patients Consideration should be given to a slower rate of dose titration and a lower target dose in the elderly and in patients who are debilitated or who have a predisposition to hypotensive reactions [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Elderly patients should be started on quetiapine tablets 50 mg/day and the dose can be increased in increments of 50 mg/day depending on the clinical response and tolerability of the individual patient. The dose should be increased daily in increments of 25 mg/day to 50 mg/day to an effective dose, depending on the clinical response and tolerability of the patient. 2.5 Dose Modifications when used with CYP3A4 Inhibitors Quetiapine tablets dose should be reduced to one sixth of original dose when co-medicated with a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, indinavir, ritonavir, nefazodone, etc.). When the CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine tablets should be increased by 6-fold [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) ]. 2.6 Dose Modifications when used with CYP3A4 Inducers Quetiapine tablets dose should be increased up to 5-fold of the original dose when used in combination with a chronic treatment (e.g., greater than 7 to 14 days) of a potent CYP3A4 inducer (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin, avasimibe, St. When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine tablets should be reduced to the original level within 7 to 14 days [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) ]. 2.7 Re-initiation of Treatment in Patients Previously Discontinued Although there are no data to specifically address re-initiation of treatment, it is recommended that when restarting therapy of patients who have been off quetiapine tablets for more than one-week, the initial dosing schedule should be followed. When restarting patients who have been off quetiapine tablets for less than one-week, gradual dose escalation may not be required and the maintenance dose may be re-initiated. 2.8 Switching from Antipsychotics There are no systematically collected data to specifically address switching patients with schizophrenia from antipsychotics to quetiapine tablets, or concerning concomitant administration with antipsychotics. When switching patients with schizophrenia from depot antipsychotics, if medically appropriate, initiate quetiapine tablets therapy in place of the next scheduled injection. 300 calories) (2.1) Administer once daily, preferably in the evening (2.1) Geriatric Use : Consider a lower starting dose (50 mg/day), slower titration, and careful monitoring during the initial dosing period in the elderly. ( 2.3 , 8.5 ) Hepatic Impairment : Lower starting dose (50 mg/day) and slower titration may be needed ( 2.4 , 8.7 , 12.3 ) Indication Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia-Adults ( 2.2 ) 300 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia-Adolescents (13 to 17 years) ( 2.2 ) 50 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder manic or mixed-Acute monotherapy or adjunct to lithium or divalproex-Adults ( 2.2 ) 300 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder, manic Acute monotherapy-Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years) ( 2.2 ) 50 mg/day 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Disorder, Depressive Episodes-Adults ( 2.2 ) 50 mg/day 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Major Depressive Disorder, Adjunctive Therapy with Antidepressants-Adults ( 2.2 ) 50 mg/day 150 to 300 mg/day 300 mg/day 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Quetiapine extended-release tablets should be swallowed whole and not split, chewed or crushed. Table 1: Recommended Dosing for quetiapine extended-release tablets n/a - not applicable Indication Initial Dose and Titration Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia- Adults Day 1: 300 mg/day Dose increases can be made at intervals as short as 1 day and in increments of up to 300 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia-Adolescents (13 to 17 years) Day 1: 50 mg/day Day 2: 100 mg/day Day 3: 200 mg/day Day 4: 300 mg/day Day 5: 400 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia Maintenance-Monotherapy-Adults Not applicable 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder manic or mixed-Acute monotherapy or adjunct to lithium or divalproex-Adults Day 1: 300 mg/day Day 2: 600 mg/day Day 3: between 400 and 800 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder, manic Acute monotherapy-Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years) Day 1: 50 mg/day Day 2: 100 mg/day Day 3: 200 mg/day Day 4: 300 mg/day Day 5: 400 mg/day 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Disorder, Depressive Episodes-Adults Day 1: 50 mg/day Day 2: 100 mg/day Day 3: 200 mg/day Day 4: 300 mg/day 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance- Adjunct to lithium or divalproex-Adults Not applicable 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Major Depressive Disorder- Adjunctive Therapy with Antidepressants-Adults Day 1: 50 mg/day Day 2: 50 mg/day Day 3: 150 mg/day 150 to 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Maintenance Treatment for Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Treatment —Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 , 14.2 )]. 2.5 Dose Modifications when used with CYP3A4 Inhibitors Quetiapine extended-release tablets dose should be reduced to one sixth of original dose when co-medicated with a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, indinavir, ritonavir, nefazodone, etc.). When the CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine extended-release tablets should be increased by 6 fold [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 2.6 Dose Modifications when used with CYP3A4 Inducers Quetiapine extended-release tablets dose should be increased up to 5 fold of the original dose when used in combination with a chronic treatment (e.g., greater than 7 to 14 days) of a potent CYP3A4 inducer (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin, avasimibe, St. 2.7 Re-initiation of Treatment in Patients Previously Discontinued Although there are no data to specifically address re-initiation of treatment, it is recommended that when restarting therapy of patients who have been off quetiapine extended-release tablets for more than one week, the initial dosing schedule should be followed. When restarting patients who have been off quetiapine extended-release tablets for less than one week, gradual dose escalation may not be required and the maintenance dose may be reinitiated. 2.8 Switching Patients from quetiapine tablets to quetiapine extended-release tablets Patients who are currently being treated with quetiapine tablets (immediate release formulation) may be switched to quetiapine extended-release tablets at the equivalent total daily dose taken once daily. 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Quetiapine extended-release tablets should be swallowed whole and not split, chewed or crushed. It is recommended that quetiapine extended-release tablets be taken without food or with a light meal (approximately 300 calories) [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. After initial dosing, adjustments can be made upwards or downwards, if necessary, depending upon the clinical response and tolerability of the patient [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1, 14.2 and 14.3)]. Table 1: Recommended Dosing for quetiapine extended-release tablets Indication Initial Dose and Titration Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia- Adults Day 1: 300 mg/day Dose increases can be made at intervals as short as 1 day and in increments of up to 300 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia-Adolescents (13 to 17 years) Day 1: 50 mg/day Day 2: 100 mg/day Day 3: 200 mg/day Day 4: 300 mg/day Day 5: 400 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia Maintenance-Monotherapy-Adults Not applicable 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder manic or mixed-Acute monotherapy or adjunct to lithium or divalproex-Adults Day 1: 300 mg/day Day 2: 600 mg/day Day 3: between 400 and 800 mg/day 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder, manic Acute monotherapy-Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years) Day 1: 50 mg/day Day 2: 100 mg/day Day 3: 200 mg/day Day 4: 300 mg/day Day 5: 400 mg/day 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Disorder, Depressive Episodes-Adults Day 1: 50 mg/day Day 2: 100 mg/day Day 3: 200 mg/day Day 4: 300 mg/day 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance- Adjunct to lithium or divalproex-Adults Not applicable 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Major Depressive Disorder- Adjunctive Therapy with Antidepressants-Adults Day 1: 50 mg/day Day 2: 50 mg/day Day 3: 150 mg/day 150 to 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Maintenance Treatment for Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Treatment—Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1, 14.2)]. 2.3 Dose Modifications in Elderly Patients Consideration should be given to a slower rate of dose titration and a lower target dose in the elderly and in patients who are debilitated or who have a predisposition to hypotensive reactions [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5, 8.7) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. When the CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine extended-release tablets should be increased by 6-fold [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3) and DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.1)]. When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine extended-release tablets should be reduced to the original level within 7 to 14 days [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3) and DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.1)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Quetiapine tablets can be taken with or without food ( 2.1 ) Indication Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia - Adults (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 150 to 750 mg/day 750 mg/day Schizophrenia - Adolescents (13 to 17 years) (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania - Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex (2.2) 50 mg twice daily 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania - Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years), Monotherapy (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Depression - Adults (2.2) 50 mg once daily at bedtime 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Geriatric Use: Consider a lower starting dose (50 mg/day), slower titration and careful monitoring during the initial dosing period in the elderly (2.3 , 8.5) Hepatic Impairment: Lower starting dose (25 mg/day) and slower titration may be needed (2.4, 8.7 , 12.3) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Quetiapine tablets can be taken with or without food. After initial dosing, adjustments can be made upwards or downwards, if necessary, depending upon the clinical response and tolerability of the patient [see Clinical Studies (14.1 and 14.2)]. Table 1: Recommended Dosing for quetiapine tablets Indication Initial Dose and Titration Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia - Adults Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. 150 to 750 mg/day 750 mg/day Schizophrenia - Adolescents (13 to 17 years) Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Schizophrenia - Maintenance Not applicable. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania - Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex Day 1: Twice daily dosing totaling 100 mg. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania - Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years), Monotherapy Day 1: 25 mg twice daily. 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Depression - Adults Administer once daily at bedtime. Day 1: 50 mg Day 2: 100 mg Day 3: 200 mg Day 4: 300 mg 300 mg/day 300 mg/day Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Therapy - Adults Administer twice daily totaling 400 to 800 mg/day as adjunct to lithium or divalproex. 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Maintenance Treatment for Schizophrenia and Bipolar I Disorder Maintenance Treatment - Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment and the appropriate dose for such treatment [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Elderly patients should be started on quetiapine tablets 50 mg/day and the dose can be increased in increments of 50 mg/day depending on the clinical response and tolerability of the individual patient . When the CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine tablets should be increased by 6-fold [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine tablets should be reduced to the original level within 7 to 14 days [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION · Quetiapine tablets, USP can be taken with or without food ( 2.1 ) Indication Initial Dose Recommended Dose Maximum Dose Schizophrenia-Adults (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 150 to 750 mg/day 750 mg/day Schizophrenia-Adolescents (13 to 17 years) (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Adults Monotherapy or as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex (2.2) 50 mg twice daily 400 to 800 mg/day 800 mg/day Bipolar Mania- Children and Adolescents (10 to 17 years), Monotherapy (2.2) 25 mg twice daily 400 to 600 mg/day 600 mg/day Bipolar Depression-Adults (2.2) 50 mg once daily at bedtime 300 mg/day 300 mg/day · Geriatric Use: Consider a lower starting dose (50 mg/day), slower titration and careful monitoring during the initial dosing period in the elderly ( 2.3 , 8.5 ) · Hepatic Impairment: Lower starting dose (25 mg/day) and slower titration may be needed ( 2.4 , 8.7 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Quetiapine tablets, USP can be taken with or without food.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to quetiapine or to any excipients in the quetiapine formulation. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients treated with quetiapine. Known hypersensitivity to quetiapine or any components in the formulation. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to quetiapine or any components in the formulation. ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to quetiapine or to any excipients in the quetiapine tablets formulation. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients treated with quetiapine tablets. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to quetiapine or to any excipients in the quetiapine extended-release tablets formulation. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients treated with quetiapine extended-release tablets. Known hypersensitivity to quetiapine extended-release tablets or any components in the formulation. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to quetiapine or to any excipients in the SEROQUEL formulation. Anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients treated with SEROQUEL. Known hypersensitivity to SEROQUEL or any components in the formulation. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to quetiapine or to any excipients in the quetiapine tablets formulation. Hypersensitivity to quetiapine or to any excipients in the quetiapine extended-release tablets formulation. Known hypersensitivity to quetiapine tablets or any components in the formulation.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors: Reduce quetiapine dose to one sixth when coadministered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, ritonavir) ( 2.5 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers: Increase quetiapine dose up to 5 fold when used in combination with a chronic treatment (more than 7-14 days) of potent CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., phenytoin, rifampin, St. John’s wort) ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) Discontinuation of strong CYP3A4 inducers: Reduce quetiapine dose by 5-fold within 7-14 days of discontinuation of CYP3A4 inducers ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Quetiapine The risks of using quetiapine in combination with other drugs have not been extensively evaluated in systematic studies. Given the primary CNS effects of quetiapine, caution should be used when it is taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs. Quetiapine potentiated the cognitive and motor effects of alcohol in a clinical trial in subjects with selected psychotic disorders, and alcoholic beverages should be limited while taking quetiapine. Quetiapine exposure is increased by the prototype CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, indinavir, ritonavir, nefazodone, etc.) and decreased by the prototype CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin, avasimibe, St. John’s wort etc.). Dose adjustment of quetiapine will be necessary if it is co-administered with potent CYP3A4 inducers or inhibitors. CYP3A4 inhibitors: Coadministration of ketoconazole, a potent inhibitor of cytochrome CYP3A4, resulted in significant increase in quetiapine exposure. The dose of quetiapine should be reduced to one sixth of the original dose if co-administered with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . CYP3A4 inducers: Coadministration of quetiapine and phenytoin, a CYP3A4 inducer increased the mean oral clearance of quetiapine by 5- fold. Increased doses of quetiapine up to 5 fold may be required to maintain control of symptoms of schizophrenia in patients receiving quetiapine and phenytoin, or other known potent CYP3A4 inducers [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine should be reduced to the original level within 7-14 days [see Dosage and Administration (2.6)] . Anticholinergic Drugs: Concomitant treatment with quetiapine and other drugs with anticholinergic activity can increase the risk for severe gastrointestinal adverse reactions related to hypomotility. Quetiapine should be used with caution in patients receiving medications having anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.20)]. The potential effects of several concomitant medications on quetiapine pharmacokinetics were studied [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7.2 Effect of Quetiapine on Other Drugs Because of its potential for inducing hypotension, Quetiapine may enhance the effects of certain antihypertensive agents. Quetiapine may antagonize the effects of levodopa and dopamine agonists. There are no clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interactions of quetiapine on other drugs based on the CYP pathway. Quetiapine and its metabolites are non-inhibitors of major metabolizing CYP’s (1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, and 3A4). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant Use of Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors: Reduce quetiapine dose to one sixth when coadministered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. ketoconazole, ritonavir) ( 7.1 , 12.3 ) Concomitant Use of Strong CYP3A4 Inducers: Increase quetiapine dose up to 5 fold when used in combination with a chronic treatment (more than 7 to 14 days) of potent CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. phenytoin, rifampin, St. John's wort) ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) Discontinuation of Strong CYP3A4 Inducers: Reduce quetiapine dose by 5 fold within 7 to 14 days of discontinuation of CYP3A4 inducers ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Quetiapine The risks of using quetiapine in combination with other drugs have not been extensively evaluated in systematic studies. Quetiapine exposure is increased by the prototype CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, indinavir, ritonavir, nefazodone, etc.) and decreased by the prototype CYP3A4 inducers (e.g, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin, avasimibe, St. John's wort etc.). CYP3A4 Inhibitors Coadministration of ketoconazole, a potent inhibitor of cytochrome CYP3A4, resulted in significant increase in quetiapine exposure. The dose of quetiapine should be reduced to one sixth of the original dose if co-administered with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2.5 ) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. CYP3A4 Inducers Coadministration of quetiapine and phenytoin, a CYP3A4 inducer increased the mean oral clearance of quetiapine by 5-fold. Increased doses of quetiapine up to 5 fold may be required to maintain control of symptoms of schizophrenia in patients receiving quetiapine and phenytoin, or other known potent CYP3A4 inducers [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2.6 ) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine should be reduced to the original level within 7 to 14 days [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2.6 )]. Anticholinergic Drugs Concomitant treatment with quetiapine and other drugs with anticholinergic activity can increase the risk for severe gastrointestinal adverse reactions related to hypomotility. Quetiapine should be used with caution in patients receiving medications having anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) effects [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.20 ) ]. The potential effects of several concomitant medications on quetiapine pharmacokinetics were studied [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. Quetiapine and its metabolites are non-inhibitors of major metabolizing CYP's (1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6 and 3A4). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors: Reduce quetiapine dose to one sixth when coadministered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, ritonavir) ( 2.5 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) • Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers: Increase quetiapine dose up to 5 fold when used in combination with a chronic treatment (more than 7-14 days) of potent CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., phenytoin, rifampin, St. John’s wort) ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) • Discontinuation of strong CYP3A4 inducers: Reduce quetiapine dose by 5 fold within 7-14 days of discontinuation of CYP3A4 inducers ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on quetiapine The risks of using quetiapine in combination with other drugs have not been extensively evaluated in systematic studies. The dose of quetiapine should be reduced to one sixth of the original dose if co-administered with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Increased doses of quetiapine up to 5 fold may be required to maintain control of symptoms of schizophrenia in patients receiving quetiapine and phenytoin, or other known potent CYP3A4 inducers [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine should be reduced to the original level within 7-14 days [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] . The potential effects of several concomitant medications on quetiapine pharmacokinetics were studied [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Quetiapine and its metabolites are non-inhibitors of major metabolizing CYP’s (1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6 and 3A4). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors: Reduce quetiapine dose to one-sixth when coadministered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, ritonavir) ( 2.5 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) • Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers: Increase quetiapine dose up to 5 fold when used in combination with a chronic treatment (more than 7 to 14 days) of potent CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., phenytoin, rifampin, St. John’s wort) ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) • Discontinuation of strong CYP3A4 inducers: Reduce quetiapine dose by 5-fold within 7 to 14 days of discontinuation of CYP3A4 inducers ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Quetiapine The risks of using quetiapine extended-release tablets in combination with other drugs have not been extensively evaluated in systematic studies. Given the primary CNS effects of quetiapine extended-release tablets, caution should be used when it is taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs. Quetiapine exposure is increased by the prototype CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, indinavir, ritonavir, nefazodone, etc.) and decreased by the prototype of CYP3A4 inducers (e.g, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin, avasimibe, St. The dose should be reduced to one sixth of the original dose in patients coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. CYP3A4 inducers: Coadministration of quetiapine and phenytoin, a CYP3A4 inducer increased the mean oral clearance of quetiapine by 5-fold. Increased doses of quetiapine extended-release tablets up to 5-fold may be required to maintain control of symptoms of schizophrenia in patients receiving quetiapine and phenytoin, or other known potent CYP3A4 inducers [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine extended-release tablets should be reduced to the original level within 7 to 14 days [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ]. SEROQUEL should be used with caution in patients receiving medications having anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.20) ] . The potential effects of several concomitant medications on quetiapine pharmacokinetics were studied [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 Effect of Quetiapine on Other Drugs Because of its potential for inducing hypotension, quetiapine extended-release tablets may enhance the effects of certain antihypertensive agents. Quetiapine extended-release tablets may antagonize the effects of levodopa and dopamine agonists. There are no clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interactions of SEROQUEL on other drugs based on the CYP pathway. SEROQUEL and its metabolites are non-inhibitors of major metabolizing CYP’s (1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6 and 3A4). John’s wort) ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) • Discontinuation of strong CYP3A4 inducers: Reduce quetiapine dose by 5-fold within 7-14 days of discontinuation of CYP3A4 inducers ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Quetiapine The risks of using SEROQUEL in combination with other drugs have not been extensively evaluated in systematic studies. Given the primary CNS effects of SEROQUEL, caution should be used when it is taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs. SEROQUEL potentiated the cognitive and motor effects of alcohol in a clinical trial in subjects with selected psychotic disorders, and alcoholic beverages should be limited while taking quetiapine. The dose of SEROQUEL should be reduced to one sixth of the original dose if co-administered with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Increased doses of SEROQUEL up to 5 fold may be required to maintain control of symptoms of schizophrenia in patients receiving quetiapine and phenytoin, or other known potent CYP3A4 inducers [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of SEROQUEL should be reduced to the original level within 7-14 days [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ]. 7.2 Effect of Quetiapine on Other Drugs Because of its potential for inducing hypotension, SEROQUEL may enhance the effects of certain antihypertensive agents. SEROQUEL may antagonize the effects of levodopa and dopamine agonists. Seroquel and its metabolites are non-inhibitors of major metabolizing CYP’s (1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, and 3A4). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors : Reduce quetiapine dose to one sixth when coadministered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, ritonavir) ( 2.5 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers : Increase quetiapine dose up to 5 fold when used in combination with a chronic treatment (more than 7 to 14 days) of potent CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., phenytoin, rifampin, St. John’s wort) ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) Discontinuation of strong CYP3A4 inducers : Reduce quetiapine dose by 5 fold within 7 to 14 days of discontinuation of CYP3A4 inducers ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Quetiapine The risks of using quetiapine in combination with other drugs have not been extensively evaluated in systematic studies. The dose of quetiapine should be reduced to one sixth of the original dose if co-administered with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. CYP3A4 inducers: Coadministration of quetiapine and phenytoin, a CYP3A4 inducer increased the mean oral clearance of quetiapine by 5 fold. Increased doses of quetiapine up to 5 fold may be required to maintain control of symptoms of schizophrenia in patients receiving quetiapine and phenytoin, or other known potent CYP3A4 inducers [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine should be reduced to the original level within 7 to 14 days [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ) ]. Quetiapine should be used with caution in patients receiving medications having anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.20 ) ]. The potential effects of several concomitant medications on quetiapine pharmacokinetics were studied [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors: Reduce quetiapine dose to one sixth when coadministered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, ritonavir) ( 2.5 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers: Increase quetiapine dose up to 5 fold when used in combination with a chronic treatment (more than 7 to 14 days) of potent CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., phenytoin, rifampin, St. John’s wort) ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) Discontinuation of strong CYP3A4 inducers: Reduce quetiapine dose by 5 fold within 7 to 14 days of discontinuation of CYP3A4 inducers ( 2.6 , 7.1 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Quetiapine The risks of using quetiapine extended-release tablets in combination with other drugs have not been extensively evaluated in systematic studies. Quetiapine exposure is increased by the prototype CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, indinavir, ritonavir, nefazodone, etc.) and decreased by the prototype of CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin, avasimibe, St. Increased doses of quetiapine extended-release tablets up to 5 fold may be required to maintain control of symptoms of schizophrenia in patients receiving quetiapine and phenytoin, or other known potent CYP3A4 inducers [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. The potential effects of several concomitant medications on quetiapine pharmacokinetics were studied. There are no clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interactions of quetiapine tablets on other drugs based on the CYP pathway. Quetiapine tablets and its metabolites are non-inhibitors of major metabolizing CYP’s (1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6 and 3A4). 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Quetiapine The risks of using quetiapine extended-release tablets in combination with other drugs have not been extensively evaluated in systematic studies. The dose should be reduced to one sixth of the original dose in patients coadministered with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.5) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. Increased doses of quetiapine extended-release tablets up to 5-fold may be required to maintain control of symptoms of schizophrenia in patients receiving quetiapine and phenytoin, or other known potent CYP3A4 inducers [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.6) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine extended-release tablets should be reduced to the original level within 7 to 14 days [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.6)]. Quetiapine should be used with caution in patients receiving medications having anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) effects [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.20)] . The potential effects of several concomitant medications on quetiapine pharmacokinetics were studied [See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors: Reduce quetiapine dose to one sixth when coadministered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, ritonavir) ( 2.5 , 7.1, 12.3 ) Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers: Increase quetiapine dose up to 5 fold when used in combination with a chronic treatment (more than 7 to 14 days) of potent CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., phenytoin, rifampin, St. John’s wort) ( 2.6 , 7.1, 12.3 ) Discontinuation of strong CYP3A4 inducers: Reduce quetiapine dose by 5-fold within 7 to 14 days of discontinuation of CYP3A4 inducers ( 2.6, 7.1, 12.3) 7.1 Effect of Other Drugs on Quetiapine The risks of using quetiapine in combination with other drugs have not been extensively evaluated in systematic studies. When the CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, the dose of quetiapine should be reduced to the original level within 7 to 14 days [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] . Quetiapine should be used with caution in patients receiving medications having anticholinergic (antimuscarinic) effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.20) ] .

=== ROSUVASTATIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Rosuvastatin tablets is indicated: To reduce the risk major adverse cardiovascular (CV) events (CV death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or an arterial revascularization procedure) in adults without established coronary heart disease who are at increased risk of CV disease based on age, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) ≥2 mg/L, and at least one additional CV risk factor. As an adjunct to diet to: Reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in adults with primary hyperlipidemia. Reduce LDL-C and slow the progression of atherosclerosis in adults. Reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients aged 8 years and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). As an adjunct to other LDL-C-lowering therapies, or alone if such treatments are unavailable, to reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients aged 7 years and older with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH). As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with: Primary dysbetalipoproteinemia. Hypertriglyceridemia. Rosuvastatin tablets is an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated: ( 1 ) To reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular (CV) events (CV death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or an arterial revascularization procedure) in adults without established coronary heart disease who are at increased risk of CV disease based on age, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) ≥ 2 mg/L, and at least one additional CV risk factor. As an adjunct to diet to reduce LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia. to reduce LDL-C and slow the progression of atherosclerosis in adults. to reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients aged 8 years and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Rosuvastatin tablets are indicated: To reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular (CV) events (CV death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or an arterial revascularization procedure) in adults without established coronary heart disease who are at increased risk of CV disease based on age, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) ≥2 mg/L, and at least one add itional CV risk factor. As an adjunct to diet to: O Reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in adults with primary hyperlipidemia. O Reduce LDL-C and slow the progression of atherosclerosis in adults. O Reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients aged 8 years and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with: O Primary dysbetalipoproteinemia. O Hypertriglyceridemia. Rosuvastatin tablets are an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated: ( 1 ) To reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular (CV) events (CV death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or an arterial revascularization procedure) in adults without established coronary heart disease who are at increased risk of CV disease based on age, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) ≥2 mg/L, and at least one additional CV risk factor. As an adjunct to diet to: O reduce LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Pediatric use information for patients 7 to 17 years of age is approved for AstraZeneca’s CRESTOR (rosuvastatin calcium) tablets. However, due to AstraZeneca’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information. Rosuvastatin tablets is an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor indicated for: adult patients with hypertriglyceridemia as an adjunct to diet ( 1. 3) adult patients with primary dysbetalipoproteinemia (Type III hyperlipoproteinemia) as an adjunct to diet ( 1. 4) adult patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) to reduce LDL-C, total-C, and ApoB ( 1. 5)Limitations of use ( 1. 8): Rosuvastatin tablets has not been studied in Fredrickson Type I and V dyslipidemias. 1.3 Hypertriglyceridemia Rosuvastatin tablets are indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet for the treatment of adult patients with hypertriglyceridemia. 1.4 Primary Dysbetalipoproteinemia (Type III Hyperlipoproteinemia) Rosuvastatin tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adult patients with primary dysbetalipoproteinemia (Type III Hyperlipoproteinemia). 1.5 Adult Patients with Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia Rosuvastatin tablets are indicated as adjunctive therapy to other lipid-lowering treatments (e.g., LDL apheresis) or alone if such treatments are unavailable to reduce LDL–C, Total–C, and ApoB in adult patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. 1.8 Limitations of Use Rosuvastatin tablets has not been studied in Fredrickson Type I and V dyslipidemias. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pediatric use information for patients 7 to 17 years of age is approved for AstraZeneca’s CRESTOR (rosuvastatin calcium) tablets. Rosuvastatin tablets are an HMG Co‑A reductase inhibitor indicated for: adult patients with hypertriglyceridemia as an adjunct to diet (1.3) adult patients with primary dysbetalipoproteinemia (Type III hyperlipoproteinemia) as an adjunct to diet (1.4) adult patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) to reduce LDL‑C, total-C, and ApoB (1.5) Limitations of use (1.8) : Rosuvastatin tablets have not been studied in Fredrickson Type I and V dyslipidemias. 1.5 Adult Patients with Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia Rosuvastatin tablets are indicated as adjunctive therapy to other lipid-lowering treatments (e.g., LDL apheresis) or alone if such treatments are unavailable to reduce LDL-C, Total-C, and ApoB in adult patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. 1.8 Limitations of Use Rosuvastatin tablets have not been studied in Fredrickson Type I and V dyslipidemias. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Rosuvastatin tablets is indicated: To reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular (CV) events (CV death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or an arterial revascularization procedure) in adults without established coronary heart disease who are at increased risk of CV disease based on age, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) ≥2 mg/L, and at least one additional CV risk factor. Rosuvastatin tablets is an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated: ( 1 ) To reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular (CV) events (CV death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or an arterial revascularization procedure) in adults without established coronary heart disease who are at increased risk of CV disease based on age, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) ≥2 mg/L, and at least one additional CV risk factor. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Rosuvastatin tablets are indicated: To reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular (CV) events (CV death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or an arterial revascularization procedure) in adults without established coronary heart disease who are at increased risk of CV disease based on age, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) ≥2 mg/L, and at least one additional CV risk factor. As an adjunct to diet to: reduce LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Rosuvastatin tablets are indicated: • To reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular (CV) events (CV death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or an arterial revascularization procedure) in adults without established coronary heart disease who are at increased risk of CV disease based on age, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) ≥2 mg/L, and at least one additional CV risk factor. • As an adjunct to diet to: • Reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in adults with primary hyperlipidemia. • Reduce LDL-C and slow the progression of atherosclerosis in adults. • Reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients aged 8 years and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). • As an adjunct to other LDL-C-lowering therapies, or alone if such treatments are unavailable, to reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients aged 7 years and older with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH). • As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with: • Primary dysbetalipoproteinemia. • Hypertriglyceridemia. Rosuvastatin tablets are an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated: ( 1) • To reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular (CV) events (CV death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or an arterial revascularization procedure) in adults without established coronary heart disease who are at increased risk of CV disease based on age, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) ≥2 mg/L, and at least one additional CV risk factor. • As an adjunct to diet to: • reduce LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Rosuvastatin tablets are indicated: • To reduce the risk of stroke, myocardial infarction, and arterial revascularization procedures in adults without established coronary heart disease who are at increased risk of cardiovascular (CV) disease based on age, hsCRP ≥2 mg/L, and at least one additional CV risk factor. • Reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and slow the progression of atherosclerosis in adults. • As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with: o Primary dysbetalipoproteinemia. Rosuvastatin tablets are an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated: ( 1 ) • To reduce the risk of stroke, myocardial infarction, and arterial revascularization procedures in adults without established coronary heart disease who are at increased risk of cardiovascular (CV) disease based on age, hsCRP ≥2 mg/L, and at least one additional CV risk factor. • As an adjunct to diet to reduce LDL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia. • As an adjunct to diet to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and slow the progression of atherosclerosis in adults. • As an adjunct to diet to reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients aged 8 years and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Rosuvastatin tablets are an HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor indicated for: adult patients with primary hyperlipidemia and mixed dyslipidemia as an adjunct to diet to reduce elevated total-C, LDL-C, ApoB, nonHDL-C, and TG levels and to increase HDLC ( 1.1 ) pediatric patients 8 to 17 years of age with heterozygous familial hypercholesterotemia (HeFH] to reduce elevated total-C, LDL-C and ApoB after failing an adequate trial of diet therapy ( 1.2 ) adult patients with hypertriglyceridemia as an adjunct to diet ( 1.3 ) adult patients with primary dysbetalipoproteinemia [Type III hyperlipoproteinemia) as an adjunct to diet ( 1.4 ) adult patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) to reduce LOL-G, total-G, and ApoB ( 1.5 ) slowing the progression of atherosclerosis as part of a treatment strategy lo lower total-C and LDL-C as an adjunct to diet ( 1.6 ) risk reduction of MI, stroke, and arterial revascularization procedures in patients without clinically evident CHD, but with multiple risk factors ( 1.7 ) Limitations of use ( 1.8 ): Rosuvastatin tablets have not been studied in Fredrickson Type I and V dyslipidemias. Pediatric use information for patients 7 to 17 years of age is approved for AstraZeneca's CRESTOR (rosuvastatin calcium) tablets. However, due to AstraZeneca's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take orally with or without food, at any time of day. ( 2.1 ) Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating rosuvastatin tablets, and adjust dosage if necessary. ( 2.1 ) Adults : Recommended dosage range is 5 to 40 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) Pediatric Patients with HeFH : Recommended dosage range is 5 to 10 mg once daily for patients aged 8 to less than 10 years of age, and 5 to 20 mg once daily for patients aged 10 years and older. ( 2.2) Pediatric Patients with HoFH : Recommended dosage is 20 mg once daily for patients aged 7 years and older. ( 2.2 ) Asian Patients : Initiate at 5 mg once daily. Consider risks and benefits of treatment if not adequately controlled at doses up to 20 mg once daily. ( 2.4 ) Patients with Severe Renal Impairment (not on hemodialysis) : Initiate at 5 mg once daily; do not exceed 10 mg once daily. ( 2.5 ) See full prescribing information for rosuvastatin tablets dosage and administration modifications due to drug interactions. ( 2.6 ) 2.1 General Dosage and Administration Information Administer rosuvastatin tablets orally as a single dose at any time of day, with or without food. Swallow the tablets whole. Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating rosuvastatin tablets, and adjust the dosage if necessary. If a dose is missed, advise patients not take an extra dose. Resume treatment with the next dose. When taking rosuvastatin tablets with an aluminum and magnesium hydroxide combination antacid, administer rosuvastatin tablets at least 2 hours before the antacid [ see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 ) ]. 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients The dosage range for rosuvastatin tablets is 5 to 40 mg orally once daily. The recommended dose of rosuvastatin tablets depends on a patient's indication for usage, LDL-C, and individual risk for CV events. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients Dosage in Pediatric Patients 8 Years of Age and Older with HeFH The recommended dosage range is 5 mg to 10 mg orally once daily in patients aged 8 years to less than 10 years and 5 mg to 20 mg orally once daily in patients aged 10 years and older. Dosage in Pediatric Patients 7 Years of Age and Older with HoFH The recommended dosage is 20 mg orally once daily. 2.4 Dosing in Asian Patients Initiate rosuvastatin tablets at 5 mg once daily due to increased rosuvastatin plasma concentrations. Consider the risks and benefits of rosuvastatin tablets when treating Asian patients not adequately controlled at doses up to 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.8 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2.5 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) not on hemodialysis, the recommended starting dosage is 5 mg once daily and should not exceed 10 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. There are no dosage adjustment recommendations for patients with mild and moderate renal impairment. 2.6 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Rosuvastatin Tablets Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Table 1 displays dosage modifications for rosuvastatin tablets due to drug interactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. Table 1: Rosuvastatin Tablets Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Concomitantly Used Drug Rosuvastatin Tablets Dosage Modifications Cyclosporine Do not exceed 5 mg once daily. Teriflunomide Do not exceed 10 mg once daily. Enasidenib Do not exceed 10 mg once daily. Capmatinib Do not exceed 10 mg once daily. Fostamatinib Do not exceed 20 mg once daily. Febuxostat Do not exceed 20 mg once daily. Gemfibrozil Avoid concomitant use. If used concomitantly, initiate at 5 mg once daily and do not exceed 10 mg once daily. Tafamidis Avoid concomitant use. If used concomitantly, initiate at 5 mg once daily and do not exceed 20 mg once daily. Antiviral Medications Sofbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir Ledipasvir/sofosbuvir Concomitant use not recommended. o Simeprevir o Dasabuvir/ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir o Elbasvir/Grazoprevir o Sofosbuvir/Velpatasvir o Glecaprevir/Pibrentasvir o Atazanavir/Ritonavir o Lopinavir/Ritonavir Initiate at 5 mg once daily. Do not exceed 10 mg once daily. Darolutamide Do not exceed 5 mg once daily. Regorafenib Do not exceed 10 mg once daily. Rosuvastatin Tablets Administration Modifications Due to Drug Interactions When taking rosuvastatin tablets with an aluminum and magnesium hydroxide combination antacid, administer rosuvastatin tablets at least 2 hours before the antacid [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )] . ( 2.1 ) Adults: Recommended dosage range is 5 to 40 mg once daily. ( 2.2 ) Pediatric Patients with HoFH : Recommended dosage is 20 mg once daily for patients aged 7 years and older. ( 2.2 ) Asian Patients: Initiate at 5 mg once daily. ( 2.4 ) Patients with Severe Renal Impairment (not on hemodialysis): Initiate at 5 mg once daily; do not exceed 10 mg once daily. If a dose is missed, advise patients not to take an extra dose. When taking rosuvastatin tablets with an aluminum and magnesium hydroxide combination antacid, administer rosuvastatin tablets at least 2 hours before the antacid [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ]. 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients The dosage range for rosuvastatin tablets are 5 to 40 mg orally once daily. The recommended dose of rosuvastatin tablets depends on a patient’s indication for usage, LDL-­C, and individual risk for CV events. Consider the risks and benefits of rosuvastatin tablets when treating Asian patients not adequately controlled at doses up to 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.8) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.5 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) not on hemodialysis, the recommended starting dosage is 5 mg once daily and should not exceed 10 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. 2.6 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Table 1 displays dosage modifications for rosuvastatin tablets due to drug interactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. Table 1: Rosuvastatin Tablets Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Concomitantly Used Drug Rosuvastatin Dosage Modifications Cyclosporine Do not exceed 5 mg once daily. Antiviral Medications o Sofbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir o Ledipasvir/sofosbuvir Concomitant use not recommended. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION • Rosuvastatin tablets can be taken with or without food, at any time of day. ( 2.1 ) • Dose range: 5 to 40 mg once daily. Use 40 mg dose only for patients not reaching LDL-C goal with 20 mg. ( 2.1 ) • Adult HoFH : Starting dose 20 mg/day. ( 2. 1) 2.1 General Dosing Information The dose range for rosuvastatin tablets in adults is 5 to 40 mg orally once daily. The usual starting dose is 10 to 20 mg once daily. The usual starting dose in adult patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia is 20 mg once daily. The maximum rosuvastatin tablets dose of 40 mg should be used only for those patients who have not achieved their LDL-C goal utilizing the 20 mg dose [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. Rosuvastatin tablets can be administered as a single dose at any time of day, with or without food. The tablet should be swallowed whole. When initiating rosuvastatin tablets therapy or switching from another HMG–CoA reductase inhibitor therapy, the appropriate rosuvastatin tablets starting dose should first be utilized, and only then titrated according to the patient’s response and individualized goal of therapy. After initiation or upon titration of rosuvastatin tablets, lipid levels should be analyzed within 2 to 4 weeks and the dosage adjusted accordingly. Pediatric use information for patients 7 to 17 years of age is approved for AstraZeneca’s CRESTOR (rosuvastatin calcium) tablets. However, due to AstraZeneca’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information. 2.3 Dosing in Asian Patients In Asian patients, consider initiation of rosuvastatin tablets therapy with 5 mg once daily due to increased rosuvastatin plasma concentrations.The increased systemic exposure should be taken into consideration when treating Asian patients not adequately controlled at doses up to 20 mg/day. [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.8) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.4 Use with Concomitant Therapy Patients taking cyclosporine and darolutamide The dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 5 mg once daily [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7.4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] Patients taking gemfibrozil Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin tablets with gemfibrozil. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, initiate rosuvastatin tablets at 5 mg once daily. The dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.2 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Patients taking regorafenib Concomitant use of rosuvastatin tablets and regorafenib, the dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Patients taking atazanavir and ritonavir, lopinavir and ritonavir, simeprevir or combination of dasabuvir/ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, elbasvir/grazoprevir, sofosbuvir/velpatasvir and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir Initiate rosuvastatin tablets therapy with 5 mg once daily. The dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7.3 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 2.5 Dosing in Patients with Severe Renal Impairment For patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr <30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) not on hemodialysis, dosing of rosuvastatin tablets should be started at 5 mg once daily and not exceed 10 mg once daily [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Rosuvastatin tablets can be taken with or without food, at any time of day. (2.1) Dose range: 5 to 40 mg once daily. Use 40 mg dose only for patients not reaching LDL‑C goal with 20 mg. (2.1) Adult HoFH: Starting dose 20 mg/day (2.1) 2.1 General Dosing Information The dose range for rosuvastatin tablet in adults is 5 to 40 mg orally once daily. The maximum rosuvastatin tablet dose of 40 mg should be used only for those patients who have not achieved their LDL-C goal utilizing the 20 mg dose [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. When initiating rosuvastatin therapy or switching from another HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor therapy, the appropriate rosuvastatin tablets starting dose should first be utilized, and only then titrated according to the patient’s response and individualized goal of therapy. After initiation or upon titration of rosuvastatin, lipid levels should be analyzed within 2 to 4 weeks and the dosage adjusted accordingly. 2.3 Dosing in Asian Patients In Asian patients, consider initiation of rosuvastatin therapy with 5 mg once daily due to increased rosuvastatin plasma concentrations. The increased systemic exposure should be taken into consideration when treating Asian patients not adequately controlled at doses up to 20 mg/day [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.8) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.4 Use with Concomitant Therapy Patients taking cyclosporine and darolutamide The dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 5 mg once daily [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Drug Interactions (7.1) , Drug Interactions (7.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Patients taking gemfibrozil Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin with gemfibrozil. The dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1), Drug Interactions (7.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Patients taking regorafenib Concomitant use of rosuvastatin tablets and regorafenib, the dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1), Drug Interactions (7.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Patients taking atazanavir and ritonavir, lopinavir and ritonavir, simeprevir or combination of dasabuvir/ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, elbasvir/grazoprevir, sofosbuvir/velpatasvir and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir Initiate rosuvastatin therapy with 5 mg once daily. The dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Drug Interactions (7.3), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.5 Dosing in Patients with Severe Renal Impairment For patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr <30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) not on hemodialysis, dosing of rosuvastatin tablets should be started at 5 mg once daily and not exceed 10 mg once daily [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. (2.1 ) Pediatric Patients with HeFH: Recommended dosage range is 5 to 10 mg once daily for patients aged 8 to less than 10 years of age, and 5 to 20 mg once daily for patients aged 10 years and older. (2.2 ) Pediatric Patients with HoFH: Recommended dosage is 20 mg once daily for patients aged 7 years and older. (2.4 ) Patients with Severe Renal Impairment (not on hemodialysis): Initiate at 5 mg once daily; do not exceed 10 mg once daily. When taking rosuvastatin tablets with an aluminum and magnesium hydroxide combination antacid, administer rosuvastatin tablets at least 2 hours before the antacid [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )]. The recommended dose of rosuvastatin tablets depends on a patient’s indication for usage, LDL-C, and individual risk for CV events. 2.5 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment (CLcr less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m2) not on hemodialysis, the recommended starting dosage is 5 mg once daily and should not exceed 10 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. 2.6 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Table 1 displays dosage modifications for Rosuvastatin tablets due to drug interactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. Simeprevir Dasabuvir/ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir Elbasvir/Grazoprevir Sofosbuvir/Velpatasvir Glecaprevir/Pibrentasvir Atazanavir/Ritonavir Lopinavir/Ritonavir Initiate at 5 mg once daily. (2.1) Pediatric Patients with HeFH : Recommended dosage range is 5 to 10 mg once daily for patients aged 8 to less than 10 years of age, and 5 to 20 mg once daily for patients aged 10 years and older. ( 2.1 ) Adults: Recommended dosage range is 5 mg to 40 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) Pediatric Patients with HeFH: Recommended dosage range is 5 mg to 10 mg once daily for patients aged 8 to less than 10 years of age, and 5 mg to 20 mg once daily for patients aged 10 years and older. ( 2.2 ) Pediatric Patients with HoFH: Recommended dosage is 20 mg once daily for patients aged 7 years and older. Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating rosuvastatin tablets and adjust the dosage if necessary. When taking rosuvastatin tablets with an aluminum and magnesium hydroxide combination antacid, administer rosuvastatin tablets at least 2 hours before the antacid [see Drug Interactions (7.2) ] . 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients The dosage range for rosuvastatin tablets is 5 mg to 40 mg orally once daily. 2.5 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) not on hemodialysis, the recommended starting dosage is 5 mg once daily and should not exceed 10 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Take orally with or without food, at any time of day. ( 2.1) Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating rosuvastatin tablets, and adjust dosage if necessary. ( 2.1) Adults: Recommended dosage range is 5 to 40 mg once daily. ( 2.1) Pediatric Patients with HeFH:Recommended dosage range is 5 to 10 mg once daily for patients aged 8 to less than 10 years of age, and 5 to 20 mg once daily for patients aged 10 years and older. ( 2.2) Pediatric Patients with HoFH:Recommended dosage is 20 mg once daily for patients aged 7 years and older. ( 2.2) Asian Patients:Initiate at 5 mg once daily. ( 2.4) 2.1 General Dosing Information • Administer rosuvastatin tablets orally as a single dose at any time of day, with or without food. • Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating rosuvastatin tablets, and adjust the dosage if necessary. • If a dose is missed, advise patients not to take an extra dose. • When taking rosuvastatin tablets with an aluminum and magnesium hydroxide combination antacid, administer rosuvastatin tablets at least 2 hours before the antacid [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2)]. 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients • The dosage range for rosuvastatin tablets is 5 to 40 mg orally once daily. • The recommended dose of rosuvastatin tablets depends on a patient’s indication for usage, LDLC, and individual risk for CV events. Consider the risks and benefits of rosuvastatin tablets when treating Asian patients not adequately controlled at doses up to 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.8), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2.5 Dosing in Patients with Severe Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment (CL crless than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2) not on hemodialysis, the recommended starting dosage is 5 mg once daily and should not exceed 10 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]. 2.8 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Table 1 displays dosage modifications for rosuvastatin tablets due to drug interactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Drug Interactions (7.1)]. 1 ( 2.5 , 5.1 , 8.6 ) See full prescribing information for rosuvastatin tablets dosage and administration modifications due to drug interactions. ( 2.6 ) 2.1 General Dosage and Administration Information • Administer rosuvastatin tablets orally as a single dose at any time of day, with or without food. • If a dose is missed, advise patients not take an extra dose. • The recommended dose of rosuvastatin tablets depends on a patient’s indication for usage, LDL-C, and individual risk for cardiovascular events. Consider the risks and benefits of rosuvastatin tablets when treating Asian patients not adequately controlled at doses up to 20 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.8 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.5 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment (CLcr <30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) not on hemodialysis, the recommended starting dosage is 5 mg once daily and should not exceed 10 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. 2.6 Dosage and Administration Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Rosuvastatin Tablets Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Table 1 displays dosage modifications for rosuvastatin tablets due to drug interactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. Rosuvastatin Tablets Administration Modifications Due to Drug Interactions When taking rosuvastatin tablets with an aluminum and magnesium hydroxide combination antacid, administer rosuvastatin tablets at least 2 hours before the antacid [see Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Rosuvasta1in tablets can be taken with or without food, at any time of day. ( 2.1 ) Dose range: 5 to 40 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) Adult HoFH: Starting dose 20 mg/day. ( 2.1 ) Pediatric patients with HeFH: 5 to 10 mg/day for patients 8 to less than 10 years of age, and 5 to 20 mg/day for patients 10 to 17 years of age. 2.1 General Dosing Information The dose range for rosuvastatin tablets in adults is 5 to 40 mg orally once daily. The maximum rosuvastatin dose of 40 mg should be used only for those patients who have not achieved their LDL-C goal utilizing the 20 mg dose [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. When initiating rosuvastatin tablets therapy or switching from another HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor therapy, the appropriate rosuvastatin tablets starting dose should first be utilized, and only then titrated according to the patient's response and individualized goal of therapy. 2.2 Pediatric Dosing In heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, !he recommended dose range is 5 to 10 mg orally once daily in patients 8 to less than 10 years of age, and 510 20 mg orally once daily in patients 10 to 17 years of age. Pediatric use information for patients 7 to 17 years of age is approved for AstraZeneca's CRESTOR (rosuvastatin calcium) tablets. However, due to AstraZeneca's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information. 2.3 Dosing in Asian Patients In Asian patients, consider initiation of rosuvastatin tablets therapy with 5 mg once daily due to increased rosuvastatin plasma concentrations. The increased systemic exposure should be taken into consideration when treating Asian patients not adequately controlled at doses up to 20 mg/day. [see Use in Specific Populations (8.8) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2.4 Use with Concomitant Therapy Patients taking cyclosporine and darolutamide The dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 5 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Drug Interactions (7.1) , Drug Interactions (7.4) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Patients taking gemfibrozil Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin tablets with gemfibrozil. The dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and, Drug Interactions (7.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Patients taking regorafenib Concomitant use of rosuvastatin tablets and regorafenib, the dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Drug Interactions (7.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Patients taking atazanavir and ritonavir, lopinavir and ritonavir, simeprevir or combination of dasabuvir/ ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, elbasvir/grazoprevir, sofosbuvir/velpatasvir and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir Initiate rosuvastatin tablets therapy with 5 mg once daily. The dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Drug Interactions (7.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.5 Dosing in Patients with Severe Renal Impairment For patients with severe renal impairment (CL <30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) not on hemodialysis, dosing of rosuvastatin tablets should be started at 5 mg once daily and not exceed 10 mg cr once daily [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ].
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rosuvastatin tablets is contraindicated in the following conditions: Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Hypersensitivity to rosuvastatin or any excipients in rosuvastatin tablets. Hypersensitivity reactions including rash, pruritus, urticaria, and angioedema have been reported with rosuvastatin [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis. ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to rosuvastatin or any excipients in rosuvastatin tablets. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rosuvastatin tablets are contraindicated in the following conditions: Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Hypersensitivity reactions including rash, pruritus, urticaria, and angioedema have been reported with rosuvastatin tablets [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rosuvastatin tablets is contraindicated in the following conditions: • Patients with a known hypersensitivity to any component of this product. Hypersensitivity reactions including rash, pruritus,urticaria, and angioedema have been reported with rosuvastatin tablets [ see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. • Patients with active liver disease, which may include unexplained persistent elevations of hepatic transaminase levels [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ]. • Pregnancy [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1, 8.3 )] • Lactation. Limited data indicate that rosuvastatin tablets is present in human milk. Because statins have the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants, women who require rosuvastatin tablets treatment should not breastfeed their infants [see Use in Specific Populations (8.2) ]. • Known hypersensitivity to product components ( 4 ) • Active liver disease, which may include unexplained persistent elevations in hepatic transaminase levels ( 4 ) • Pregnancy ( 4 , 8.1 , 8.3) • Lactation ( 4 , 8.2) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rosuvastatin tablets are contraindicated in the following conditions: Patients with a known hypersensitivity to any component of this product. Hypersensitivity reactions including rash, pruritus, urticaria, and angioedema have been reported with rosuvastatin [ see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Patients with active liver disease, which may include unexplained persistent elevations of hepatic transaminase levels [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.1 , 8.3 )]. Lactation. Limited data indicate that rosuvastatin is present in human milk. Because statins have the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants, women who require rosuvastatin treatment should not breastfeed their infants [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.2) ]. Known hypersensitivity to product components (4) Active liver disease, which may include unexplained persistent elevations in hepatic transaminase levels (4) Pregnancy ( 4 , 8.1 , 8.3 ) Lactation ( 4 , 8.2 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rosuvastatin tablets is contraindicated in the following conditions: Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Hypersensitivity reactions including rash, pruritus, urticaria, and angioedema have been reported with rosuvastatin tablets [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. ( 4) Hypersensitivity to rosuvastatin or any excipients in rosuvastatin tablets. ( 4) Hypersensitivity reactions including rash, pruritus, urticaria, and angioedema have been reported with rosuvastatin [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rosuvastatin tablets are contraindicated in the following conditions: Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rosuvastatin is contraindicated in the following conditions: • Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. • Hypersensitivity to rosuvastatin or any excipients in rosuvastatin. Hypersensitivity reactions including rash, pruritus, urticaria, and angioedema have been reported with rosuvastatin [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. (4) Hypersensitivity to rosuvastatin or any excipients in rosuvastatin. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rosuvastatin tablets are contraindicated in the following conditions: • Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. • Hypersensitivity to rosuvastatin or any excipients in rosuvastatin tablets. Hypersensitivity reactions including rash, pruritus, urticaria, and angioedema have been reported with rosuvastatin tablets [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . Hypersensitivity reactions including rash, pruritus, urticaria, and angioedema have been reported with rosuvastatin tablets [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Patients with active liver disease, which may include unexplained persistent elevations of hepatic transaminase levels [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Pregnancy [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1 , 8.3) ]. Because statins have the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants, women who require rosuvastatin treatment should not breastfeed their infants [see Use in Specific Populations (8.2) ]. Known hypersensitivity to product components ( 4 ) Active liver disease, which may include unexplained persistent elevations in hepatic transaminase levels ( 4 ) Pregnancy ( 4 , 8.1 , 8.3 ) Lactation ( 4 , 8.2 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for details regarding concomitant use of rosuvastatin with other drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. ( 7.1 ) Aluminum and Magnesium Hydroxide Combination Antacids : Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before the antacid. ( 7.2 ) Warfarin : Obtain INR prior to starting rosuvastatin. Monitor INR frequently until stable upon initiation, dose titration or discontinuation. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Rosuvastatin Rosuvastatin is a substrate of CYP2C9 and transporters (such as OATP1B1, BCRP). Rosuvastatin plasma levels can be significantly increased with concomitant administration of inhibitors of CYP2C9 and transporters. Table 5 includes a list of drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly with rosuvastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 5: Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Rosuvastatin Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Cyclosporine increased rosuvastatin exposure 7-fold. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of cyclosporine or gemfibrozil with rosuvastatin. Intervention: If used concomitantly, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 5 mg once daily. Teriflunomide Clinical Impact: Teriflunomide increased rosuvastatin exposure more than 2.5-fold. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use. Intervention: In patients taking teriflunomide, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily. Enasidenib Clinical Impact: Enasidenib increased rosuvastatin exposure more than 2.4-fold. Intervention: In patients taking enasidenib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily. Capmatinib Clinical Impact: Capmatinib increased rosuvastatin exposure more than 2.1-fold. Intervention: In patients taking capmatinib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily. Fostamatinib Clinical Impact: Fostamatinib increased rosuvastatin exposure more than 2.0-fold. Intervention: In patients taking fostamatinib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 20 mg once daily. Febuxostat Clinical Impact: Febuxostat increased rosuvastatin exposure more than 1.9-fold. Intervention: In patients taking febuxostat, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 20 mg once daily. Gemfibrozil Clinical Impact: Gemfibrozil significantly increased rosuvastatin exposure and gemfibrozil may cause myopathy when given alone. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of gemfibrozil with rosuvastatin. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of gemfibrozil with rosuvastatin. If used concomitantly, initiate rosuvastatin at 5 mg once daily and do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily. Tafamidis Clinical Impact: Tafamidis significantly increased rosuvastatin exposure and tafamidis may cause myopathy when given alone. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of tafamidis with rosuvastatin. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of tafamidis with rosuvastatin. If used concomitantly, initiate rosuvastatin at 5 mg once daily and do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 20 mg once daily. Monitor for signs of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if used concomitantly with rosuvastatin. Anti-Viral Medications Clinical Impact: Rosuvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of many anti-viral drugs, which increases the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Intervention: Sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir Ledipasvir/sofosbuvir Avoid concomitant use with rosuvastatin. Simeprevir Dasabuvir/ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir Elbasvir/grazoprevir Sofosbuvir/velpatasvir Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir Atazanavir/ritonavir Lopinavir/ritonavir Initiate with rosuvastatin 5 mg once daily, and do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily. Darolutamide Clinical Impact: Darolutamide increased rosuvastatin exposure more than 5-fold. Intervention: In patients taking darolutamide, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 5 mg once daily. Regorafenib Clinical Impact: Regorafenib increased rosuvastatin exposure and may increase the risk of myopathy. Intervention: In patients taking regorafenib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily. Fenofibrates (e.g., fenofibrate and fenofibric acid) Clinical Impact: Fibrates may cause myopathy when given alone. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of fibrates with rosuvastatin. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using fibrates concomitantly with rosuvastatin outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. If concomitant use is decided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy, particularly during initiation of therapy and during upward dose titration of either drug. Niacin Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have occurred with concomitant use of lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin with rosuvastatin. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin concomitantly with rosuvastatin outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Colchicine Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with concomitant use of colchicine with rosuvastatin. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using colchicine concomitantly with rosuvastatin outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Ticagrelor Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of rosuvastatin and ticagrelor has been shown to increase rosuvastatin concentrations, which may result in increased risk of myopathy. Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported in patients using both products concomitantly. Cases have occurred more frequently in patients taking 40 mg of rosuvastatin. Intervention: In patients taking concomitant ticagrelor, especially those with additional risk factors for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy, particularly during initiation of therapy and during upward dose titration of rosuvastatin. 7.2 Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Rosuvastatin Table 6 presents drug interactions that may decrease the efficacy of rosuvastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 6: Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Rosuvastatin Antacids Clinical Impact: Concomitant aluminum and magnesium hydroxide combination antacid administration decreased the mean exposure of rosuvastatin 50% [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: In patients taking antacid, administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before the antacid. 7.3 Rosuvastatin Effects on Other Drugs Table 7 presents rosuvastatin's effect on other drugs and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 7: Rosuvastatin Effects on Other Drugs Warfarin Clinical Impact: Rosuvastatin significantly increased the INR in patients receiving warfarin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: In patients taking warfarin, obtain an INR before starting rosuvastatin and frequently enough after initiation, dose titration or discontinuation to ensure that no significant alteration in INR occurs. Once the INR is stable, monitor INR at regularly recommended intervals. ( 7.2 ) Warfarin: Obtain INR prior to starting rosuvastatin. Table 5 includes a list of drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly with rosuvastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: If used concomitantly, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 5 mg once daily . Intervention: In patients taking teriflunomide, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily . Intervention: In patients taking enasidenib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily . Intervention: In patients taking capmatinib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily . Intervention: In patients taking fostamatinib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 20 mg once daily . Intervention: In patients taking febuxostat, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 20 mg once daily . If used concomitantly, initiate rosuvastatin at 5 mg once daily and do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily . Monitor for signs of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if used concomitantly with rosuvastatin . Intervention: • Sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir • Ledipasvir/sofosbuvir Avoid concomitant use with rosuvastatin. • Simeprevir • Dasabuvir/ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir • Elbasvir/grazoprevir • Sofosbuvir/velpatasvir • Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir • Atazanavir/ritonavir • Lopinavir/ritonavir Initiate with rosuvastatin 5 mg once daily, and do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use . Intervention: In patients taking darolutamide, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 5 mg once daily . Intervention: In patients taking regorafenib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily . Table 6: Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Rosuvastatin Antacids Clinical Impact: Concomitant aluminum and magnesium hydroxide combination antacid administration decreased the mean exposure of rosuvastatin 50% [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: In patients taking antacid, administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before the antacid . 7.3 Rosuvastatin Effects on Other Drugs Table 7 presents rosuvastatin’s effect on other drugs and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 7: Rosuvastatin Effects on Other Drugs Warfarin Clinical Impact: Rosuvastatin significantly increased the INR in patients receiving warfarin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Combination of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir or ledipasvir/sofosbuvir: Combination increases rosuvastatin tablets exposure. Use with rosuvastatin tablets is not recommended. ( 2.4 , 5.1 , 7.3 , 12.3 ) Cyclosporine and darolutamide : Combination increases rosuvastatin tablets exposure. Limit rosuvastatin tablets dose to 5 mg once daily. ( 2. 4, 5.1 , 7.1 , 7.4 , 12.3 ) Gemfibrozil : Combination should be avoided. If used together, limit rosuvastatin tablets dose to 10 mg once daily. (2.4, 5.1 , 7.2 ) Atazanavir/ritonavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, simeprevir or combination of dasabuvir/ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, elbasvir/grazoprevir, sofosbuvir/velpatasvir and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir: Combination increases rosuvastatin tablets exposure. Limit rosuvastatin tablets dose to 10 mg once daily. ( 2.4 , 5.1 , 7.3 , 12.3 ) Regorafenib: Combination increases rosuvastatin exposure. Limit rosuvastatin tablets dose to 10 mg once daily.( 2.4 , 5.1 , 7.5 ) Coumarin anticoagulants : Combination prolongs INR. Achieve stable INR prior to starting rosuvastatin tablets. Monitor INR frequently until stable upon initiation or alteration of rosuvastatin tablets therapy. ( 5.4 , 7.6 ) Concomitant lipid-lowering therapies : Use with fibrates or lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin increases the risk of adverse skeletal muscle effects. Caution should be used when prescribing with rosuvastatin tablets. ( 5.1 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) 7.1 Cyclosporine Cyclosporine increased rosuvastatin exposure and may result in increased risk of myopathy. Therefore, in patients taking cyclosporine, the dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 5 mg once daily [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 Gemfibrozil Gemfibrozil significantly increased rosuvastatin exposure. Due to an observed increased risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis,combination therapy with rosuvastatin tablets and gemfibrozil should be avoided. If used together, the dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.3 Anti-viral Medications Coadministration of rosuvastatin with certain anti-viral drugs has differing effects on rosuvastatin exposure and may increase risk of myopathy. The combination of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir which are anti-Hepatitis C virus (anti-HCV) drugs, increases rosuvastatin exposure. Similarly, the combination of ledipasvir/sofosbuvir may significantly increase rosuvastatin exposure. For these combinations of anti-HCV drugs, concomitant use with rosuvastatin tablets is not recommended. Simeprevir and combinations of dasabuvir/ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, elbasvir/grazoprevir, sofosbuvir/velpatasvir and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir which are anti-HCV drugs, increase rosuvastatin exposure. Combinations of atazanavir/ritonavir and lopinavir/ritonavir, which are anti-HIV-1 drugs, increase rosuvastatin exposure [see Table 4 – Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . For these anti-viral drugs, the dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily. The combinations of fosamprenavir/ritonavir or tipranavir/ritonavir, which are anti-HIV-1 drugs, produce little or no change in rosuvastatin exposure. No dose adjustment is needed for concomitant use with these combinations [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.4 Darolutamide Darolutamide increased rosuvastatin exposure more than 5 fold. Therefore, in patients taking darolutamide, the dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 5 mg once daily [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.5 Regorafenib Regorafenib increased rosuvastatin exposure and may increase the risk of myopathy. If used together, the dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.6 Coumarin Anticoagulants Rosuvastatin tablets significantly increased INR in patients receiving coumarin anticoagulants. Therefore, caution should be exercised when coumarin anticoagulants are given in conjunction with rosuvastatin tablets. In patients taking coumarin anticoagulants and rosuvastatin tablets concomitantly, INR should be determined before starting rosuvastatin tablets and frequently enough during early therapy to ensure that no significant alteration of INR occurs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 7.7 Niacin The risk of skeletal muscle effects may be enhanced when rosuvastatin tablets is used in combination with lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin; caution should be used when prescribing with rosuvastatin tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7.8 Fenofibrate When rosuvastatin tablets was coadministered with fenofibrate, no clinically significant increase in the AUC of rosuvastatin or fenofibrate was observed. Because it is known that the risk of myopathy during treatment with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors is increased with concomitant use of fenofibrates, caution should be used when prescribing fenofibrates with rosuvastatin tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.9 Colchicine Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with HMG–CoA reductase inhibitors, including rosuvastatin,coadministered with colchicine, and caution should be exercised when prescribing rosuvastatin tablets with colchicine [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7. DRUG INTERACTIONS Combination of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir or ledipasvir/sofosbuvir: Combination increases rosuvastatin exposure. ( 2.4 , 5.1 , 7.3 , 12.3 ) Cyclosporine and darolutamide: Combination increases rosuvastatin exposure. Limit rosuvastatin dose to 5 mg once daily. ( 2.4 , 5.1 , 7.1 , 7.4 , 12.3 ) Gemfibrozil: Combination should be avoided. If used together, limit rosuvastatin tablet dose to 10 mg once daily. ( 2.4 , 5.1 , 7.2 ) Atazanavir/ritonavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, simeprevir or combination of dasabuvir/ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, elbasvir/grazoprevir, sofosbuvir/velpatasvir and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir: Combination increases rosuvastatin exposure. Limit rosuvastatin dose to 10 mg once daily. ( 2.4 , 5.1 , 7.5 ) Coumarin anticoagulants: Combination prolongs INR. ( 5.4 , 7.6 ) Concomitant lipid-lowering therapies: Use with fibrates or lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin increases the risk of adverse skeletal muscle effects. Therefore, in patients taking cyclosporine, the dose of rosuvastatin should not exceed 5 mg once daily [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Due to an observed increased risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis, combination therapy with rosuvastatin and gemfibrozil should be avoided. If used together, the dose of rosuvastatin should not exceed 10 mg once daily [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. For these combinations of anti-HCV drugs, concomitant use with rosuvastatin is not recommended. Combinations of atazanavir/ritonavir and lopinavir/ritonavir, which are anti-HIV-1 drugs, increase rosuvastatin exposure [ see Table 4 – Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. No dose adjustment is needed for concomitant use with these combinations [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Therefore, in patients taking darolutamide, the dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 5 mg once daily [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. If used together, the dose of rosuvastatin tablets should not exceed 10 mg once daily [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.6 Coumarin Anticoagulants Rosuvastatin significantly increased INR in patients receiving coumarin anticoagulants. Therefore, caution should be exercised when coumarin anticoagulants are given in conjunction with rosuvastatin. In patients taking coumarin anticoagulants and rosuvastatin concomitantly, INR should be determined before starting rosuvastatin and frequently enough during early therapy to ensure that no significant alteration of INR occurs [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.7 Niacin The risk of skeletal muscle effects may be enhanced when rosuvastatin is used in combination with lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin; caution should be used when prescribing with rosuvastatin [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7.8 Fenofibrate When rosuvastatin was coadministered with fenofibrate, no clinically significant increase in the AUC of rosuvastatin or fenofibrate was observed. Because it is known that the risk of myopathy during treatment with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors is increased with concomitant use of fenofibrates, caution should be used when prescribing fenofibrates with rosuvastatin [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.9 Colchicine Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, including rosuvastatin, coadministered with colchicine, and caution should be exercised when prescribing rosuvastatin with colchicine [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for details regarding concomitant use of rosuvastatin tablets with other drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. ( 7.1 ) Aluminum and Magnesium Hydroxide Combination Antacids: Administer rosuvastatin tablets at least 2 hours before the antacid. ( 7.2 ) Warfarin: Obtain INR prior to starting rosuvastatin tablets. (7.3 ) 7.1 Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Rosuvastatin Tablets Rosuvastatin is a substrate of CYP2C9 and transporters (such as OATP1B1, BCRP). Table 5 includes a list of drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly with rosuvastatin tablets and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Table 5: Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Rosuvastatin Tablets Cyclosporine Clinical Impact: Cyclosporine increased rosuvastatin exposure 7-fold. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of cyclosporine or gemfibrozil with rosuvastatin tablets. Intervention: If used concomitantly, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin tablets 5 mg once daily. Intervention: In patients taking teriflunomide, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin tablets 10 mg once daily. Intervention: In patients taking enasidenib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin tablets 10 mg once daily. Intervention: In patients taking capmatinib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin tablets 10 mg once daily. Intervention: In patients taking fostamatinib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin tablets 20 mg once daily. Intervention: In patients taking febuxostat, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin tablets 20 mg once daily. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of gemfibrozil with rosuvastatin tablets. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of gemfibrozil with rosuvastatin tablets. If used concomitantly, initiate rosuvastatin tablets at 5 mg once daily and do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin tablets 10 mg once daily. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of tafamidis with rosuvastatin tablets. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use of tafamidis with rosuvastatin tablets. If used concomitantly, initiate rosuvastatin tablets at 5 mg once daily and do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin tablets 20 mg once daily. Monitor for signs of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis if used concomitantly with rosuvastatin tablets. Intervention: Sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir Ledipasvir/sofosbuvir Avoid concomitant use with rosuvastatin tablets. Simeprevir Dasabuvir/ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir Elbasvir/grazoprevir Sofosbuvir/velpatasvir Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir Atazanavir/ritonavir Lopinavir/ritonavir Initiate with rosuvastatin tablets 5 mg once daily, and do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin tablets 10 mg once daily. Intervention: In patients taking darolutamide, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin tablets 5 mg once daily. Intervention: In patients taking regorafenib, do not exceed a dose of rosuvastatin tablets 10 mg once daily. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of fibrates with rosuvastatin tablets. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using fibrates concomitantly with rosuvastatin tablets outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Niacin Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have occurred with concomitant use of lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin with rosuvastatin tablets. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin concomitantly with rosuvastatin tablets outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Colchicine Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with concomitant use of colchicine with rosuvastatin tablets. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using colchicine concomitantly with rosuvastatin tablets outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Ticagrelor Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of rosuvastatin tablets and ticagrelor has been shown to increase rosuvastatin concentrations, which may result in increased risk of myopathy. Intervention: In patients taking concomitant ticagrelor, especially those with additional risk factors for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy, particularly during initiation of therapy and during upward dose titration of rosuvastatin tablets. 7.2 Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Rosuvastatin Tablets Table 6 presents drug interactions that may decrease the efficacy of rosuvastatin tablets and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 6: Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Rosuvastatin Tablets Antacids Clinical Impact: Concomitant aluminum and magnesium hydroxide combination antacid administration decreased the mean exposure of rosuvastatin 50% [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: In patients taking antacid, administer rosuvastatin tablets at least 2 hours before the antacid. 7.3 Rosuvastatin Tablets Effects on Other Drugs Table 7 presents rosuvastatin tablets effect on other drugs and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 7: Rosuvastatin Tablets Effects on Other Drugs Warfarin Clinical Impact: Rosuvastatin significantly increased the INR in patients receiving warfarin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: In patients taking warfarin, obtain an INR before starting rosuvastatin tablets and frequently enough after initiation, dose titration or discontinuation to ensure that no significant alteration in INR occurs. Table 7: Rosuvastatin Effects on Other Drugs Warfarin Clinical Impact: Rosuvastatin significantly increased the INR in patients receiving warfarin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Table 5 includes a list of drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly with rosuvastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Table 6: Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Rosuvastatin Antacids Clinical Impact: Concomitant aluminum and magnesium hydroxide combination antacid administration decreased the mean exposure of rosuvastatin 50% [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention: In patients taking antacid, administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours after the antacid. Table 7: Rosuvastatin Effects on Other Drugs Warfarin Clinical Impact: Rosuvastatin significantly increased the INR in patients receiving warfarin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Rosuvastatin Rosuvastatin is a substrate of CYP2C9 and transporters (such as OATP1B1, BCRP). Table 5 includes a list of drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly with rosuvastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Table 5: Drug Interactions that Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Rosuvastatin 7.2 Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Rosuvastatin Table 6 presents drug interactions that may decrease the efficacy of rosuvastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 6: Drug Interactions that Decrease the Efficacy of Rosuvastatin 7.3 Rosuvastatin Effects on Other Drugs Table 7 presents rosuvastatin’s effect on other drugs and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 7: Rosuvastatin Effects on Other Drugs See full prescribing information for details regarding concomitant use of rosuvastatin with other drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. ( 7.1) Aluminum and Magnesium Hydroxide Combination Antacids:Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before the antacid. ( 7.2) Warfarin:Obtain INR prior to starting rosuvastatin Monitor INR frequently until stable upon initiation, dose titration or discontinuation. ( 7.3) table 5, part 1 table 5, part 2 table 5; part 3 table 5, part 4 table 5; part 5 table 6 table 7 ( 2.6 , 7.1 ) Aluminum and Magnesium Hydroxide Combination Antacids : Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours after the antacid. ( 2.6 , 7.2 ) Warfarin: Obtain INR prior to starting rosuvastatin. Table 5 includes a list of drugs that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly with rosuvastatin and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: In patients taking antacid, administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours after the antacid . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Combina1ion of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir or ledipasvir/sofosbuvir : Combination increases rosuvastatin exposure. Use with rosuvastatin is not recommended. ( 2.4 , 5.1 , 7.3 , 12.3 ) Cyclosporine and darolutamide : Combination increases rosuvastatin exposure. ( 2.4 , 5.1 , 7.1 , 7.4 , 12.3 ) Gemfibrozil : Combination should be avoided. If used together, limit rosuvastatin dose to 10 mg once daily. ( 2.4 , 5.1 , 7.2 ) Atazanavir/ritonavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, simeprevir or combination of dasabuvir/ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir, elbasvir/grazoprevir, sofosbuvir/velpatasvir and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir : Combination increases rosuvastatin exposure. ( 2.4 , 5.1 , 7.3 , 12.3 ) Regorafenib : Combination increases rosuvastatin exposure. ( 2.4 , 5.1 , 7.5 ) Coumarin anticoagulants : Combination prolongs INR Achieve stable INR prior to starting rosuvastatin. Moni1or INR frequently until stable upon initiation or alteration of rosuvastatin therapy. ( 5.4 , 7.6 ) Concomitant lipid-lowering therapies : Use with fibrates or lipid modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin increases the risk of adverse skeletal muscle effects. Caution should be used when prescribing with rosuvastatin. Therefore, in patients taking cyclosporine, the dose of rosuvastatin should not exceed 5 mg once daily [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. If used together, the dose of rosuvastatin should not exceed 10 mg once daily [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Combinations of atazanavir/ritonavir and lopinavir/ritonavir, which are anti-HIV-1 drugs, increase rosuvastatin exposure [see Table 4 – Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. For these anti-viral drugs, the dose of rosuvastatin should not exceed 10 mg once daily. No dose adjustment is needed for concomitant use with these combinations [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Therefore, in patients taking darolutamide, the dose of rosuvastatin should not exceed 5 mg once daily [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. If used together, the dose of rosuvastatin should not exceed 10 mg once daily [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. In patients taking coumarin anticoagulants and rosuvastatin concomitantly, INR should be determined before starting rosuvastatin and frequently enough during early therapy to ensure that no significant alteration of INR occurs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.7 Niacin The risk of skeletal muscle effects may be enhanced when rosuvastatin is used in combination with lipid-modifying doses (≥1 g/day) of niacin; caution should be used when prescribing with rosuvastatin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Because it is known that the risk of myopathy during treatment with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors is increased with concomitant use of fenofibrates, caution should be used when prescribing fenofibrates with rosuvastatin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.9 Colchicine Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, including rosuvastatin, coadministered with colchicine, and caution should be exercised when prescribing rosuvastatin with colchicine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ].

=== TESTOSTERONE CYPIONATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Testosterone cypionate injection is indicated for replacement therapy in the male in conditions associated with symptoms of deficiency or absence of endogenous testosterone. 1. Primary hypogonadism (congenital or acquired)-testicular failure due to cryptorchidism, bilateral torsion, orchitis, vanishing testis syndrome; or orchidectomy. 2. Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (congenital or acquired)-gonadotropin or LHRH deficiency, or pituitary-hypothalamic injury from tumors, trauma, or radiation. Safety and efficacy of testosterone cypionate injection in men with “age­-related hypogonadism” (also referred to as “late-onset hypogonadism”) have not been established. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Testosterone Cypionate Injection, USP is indicated for replacement therapy in the male in conditions associated with symptoms of deficiency, or absence of endogenous testosterone. Primary hypogonadism (congenital or acquired): testicular failure due to cryptorchidism, bilateral torsion, orchitis, vanishing testis syndrome; or orchidectomy. Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (congenital or acquired): gonadotropin or luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) deficiency, or pituitary-hypothalamic injury from tumors, trauma, or radiation. Safety and efficacy of testosterone cypionate in men with "age-related hypogonadism" (also referred to as "late-onset hypogonadism") have not been established. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE AZMIRO is indicated for testosterone replacement therapy in males in conditions associated with a deficiency or absence of endogenous testosterone: • Primary hypogonadism (congenital or acquired): testicular failure due to conditions such as cryptorchidism, bilateral torsion, orchitis, vanishing testis syndrome; or orchiectomy, Klinefelter’s syndrome, or toxic damage from alcohol or heavy metals, chemotherapy, or toxic damage from alcohol or heavy metals. These men usually have low serum testosterone concentrations and gonadotropins (follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH)) above the normal range [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ) ]. • Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (congenital or acquired): gonadotropin or luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) deficiency, or pituitary-hypothalamic injury from tumors, trauma, or radiation. These men have low testosterone serum concentrations but have gonadotropins in the normal or low range [ see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. Limitations of Use • Safety and efficacy of AZMIRO in men with “age- related hypogonadism” (also referred to as “late-onset hypogonadism”) have not been established. • Safety and efficacy of AZMIRO in pediatric patients below the age of 12 years have not been established [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ) ]. AZMIRO is an androgen indicated for testosterone replacement therapy in males for conditions associated with a deficiency or absence of endogenous testosterone ( 1 ): Limitations of Use: • Safety and efficacy of AZMIRO in men with “age-related hypogonadism” (also referred to as “late-onset hypogonadism”) have not been established ( 1 ). • Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 12 years have not been established ( 8.4 ). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Testosterone Cypionate Injection, USP is indicated for replacement therapy in the male in conditions associated with symptoms of deficiency or absence of endogenous testosterone. Safety and efficacy of testosterone cypionate in men with “age-related hypogonadism” (also referred to as “late-onset hypogonadism”) have not been established. INDICATIONS AND USAGE DEPO-Testosterone Injection is indicated for replacement therapy in the male in conditions associated with symptoms of deficiency or absence of endogenous testosterone. Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (congenital or acquired) - gonadotropin or LHRH deficiency, or pituitary-hypothalamic injury from tumors, trauma, or radiation. Safety and efficacy of DEPO-Testosterone (testosterone cypionate) in men with “age-related hypogonadism” (also referred to as “late-onset hypogonadism”) have not been established. Primary hypogonadism (congenital or acquired) - testicular failure due to cryptorchidism, bilateral torsion, orchitis, vanishing testis syndrome; or orchidectomy. Safety and efficacy of testosterone cypionate injection in men with “age-related hypogonadism” (also referred to as “late-onset hypogonadism”) have not been established.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Prior to initiating testosterone cypionate injection, confirm the diagnosis of hypogonadism by ensuring that serum testosterone concentrations have been measured in the morning on at least two separate days and that these serum testosterone concentrations are below the normal range. Testosterone cypionate injection is for intramuscular use only. It should not be given intravenously. Intramuscular injections should be given deep in the gluteal muscle. The suggested dosage for testosterone cypionate injection varies depending on the age, sex, and diagnosis of the individual patient. Dosage is adjusted according to the patient's response and the appearance of adverse reactions. Various dosage regimens have been used to induce pubertal changes in hypogonadal males; some experts have advocated lower dosages initially, gradually increasing the dose as puberty progresses, with or without a decrease to maintenance levels. Other experts emphasize that higher dosages are needed to induce pubertal changes and lower dosages can be used for maintenance after puberty. The chronological and skeletal ages must be taken into consideration, both in determining the initial dose and in adjusting the dose. For replacement in the hypogonadal male, 50 to 400 mg should be administered every two to four weeks. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Warming and shaking the vial should redissolve any crystals that may have formed during storage at temperatures lower than recommended. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Prior to initiating testosterone cypionate, confirm the diagnosis of hypogonadism by ensuring that serum testosterone concentrations have been measured in the morning on at least two separate days and that these serum testosterone concentrations are below the normal range. Dosage is adjusted according to the patient’s response and the appearance of adverse reactions. For replacement in the hypogonadal male, 50-400 mg should be administered every two to four weeks. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Injectable testosterone products may have different doses, strengths, or administration instructions and they are not substitutable on a milligram-per-milligram basis. Administer AZMIRO by deep gluteal intramuscular injection only ( 2.1 ). • Prior to initiating AZMIRO, confirm the diagnosis of hypogonadism by ensuring that serum testosterone concentrations have been measured in the morning on at least two separate days and that these serum concentrations are below the normal range ( 2.2 ). • Recommended dosage is 50 mg to 400 mg administered every two to four weeks as a deep intramuscular injection in the gluteal muscle. Individualize the dose and schedule based on the patient’s age, diagnosis, response to treatment, and the appearance of adverse reactions ( 2.3 ). • The prefilled syringe should be administered as an intramuscular injection by a healthcare professional only. 2.1 Important Dosage Information • Injectable testosterone products may have different doses, strengths, or administration instructions and they are not substitutable on a milligram-per-milligram basis. • Administer AZMIRO by deep gluteal intramuscular injection only. 2.2 Confirmation of Hypogonadism before Initiation of AZMIRO Prior to initiating AZMIRO, confirm the diagnosis of hypogonadism by ensuring that serum testosterone concentrations have been measured in the morning on at least two separate days and that these serum testosterone concentrations are below the normal range. 2.3 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage of AZMIRO is 50 mg to 400 mg administered every two to four weeks as a deep intramuscular injection in the gluteal muscle. Individualize the dose and schedule of AZMIRO based on the patient’s age, diagnosis, response to treatment, and the appearance of adverse reactions. 2.4 Administration Instructions for AZMIRO Single-dose Vial • Visually inspect parenteral drug products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. • Discard any unused portions of drug remaining in the single-dose vial. 2.5 Important Administration Information and Administration Instructions for AZMIRO Prefilled Syringe Important Administration Information • The prefilled syringe should be administered as an intramuscular injection by a healthcare professional only. • The prefilled syringe should only be used to administer doses of 200 mg. For administration of doses other than 200 mg, use the AZMIRO single-dose vial. • AZMIRO 200 mg/mL is supplied as single-dose prefilled syringe with luer lock connector. • The prefilled syringe carton does not contain a needle. Obtain suitable needle separately. • Do not use if the packaging appears to be damaged. • Do not use the prefilled syringe if it appears to be damaged or the syringe cap is detached from the Luer lock. Administration Instructions Hold the syringe upright while gripping the ribbed part of the luer lock. Then with the other hand unscrew the syringe cap in a counter-clockwise direction (Figure A). Once the syringe cap is removed, avoid any hand contact with the tip of the glass syringe, to maintain the sterility. • Screw the needle onto the luer lock end of the syringe in a clockwise direction until it is firmly attached (Figure B). • Remove the needle cap by pulling it straight off. • Check syringe for air bubbles. If there are air bubbles: Gently tap the syringe with your fingers until the bubbles rise to the top of the syringe. Then press the plunger up to slowly expel the air. • Clean the injection site for injection into the gluteal muscle with an alcohol swab and allow the skin to dry. • Insert the needle straight into the skin at a 90° angle (Figure C). Push the plunger down to inject the entire contents (1 mL) of the prefilled syringe (Figure D). • After administration of the injection, discard the syringe into a sharps disposal container or in accordance with local requirements (Figure E). Figure-A Figure-B Figure-C Figure-D Figure-E DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Prior to initiating DEPO-Testosterone (testosterone cypionate), confirm the diagnosis of hypogonadism by ensuring that serum testosterone concentrations have been measured in the morning on at least two separate days and that these serum testosterone concentrations are below the normal range. DEPO-Testosterone Injection is for intramuscular use only. The suggested dosage for DEPO-Testosterone Injection varies depending on the age, sex, and diagnosis of the individual patient. For replacement in the hypogonadal male, 50 - 400 mg should be administered every two to four weeks. For replacement in the hypogonadal male, 50 mg to 400 mg should be administered every two to four weeks.
Warnings: WARNINGS Hypercalcemia may occur in immobilized patients. If this occurs, the drug should be discontinued. Prolonged use of high doses of androgens (principally the 17-α alkyl-androgens) has been associated with development of hepatic adenomas, hepatocellular carcinoma, and peliosis hepatis —all potentially life-threatening complications. Geriatric patients treated with androgens may be at an increased risk of developing prostatic hypertrophy and prostatic carcinoma although conclusive evidence to support this concept is lacking. There have been postmarketing reports of venous thromboembolic events, including deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), in patients using testosterone products, such as testosterone cypionate. Evaluate patients who report symptoms of pain, edema, warmth and erythema in the lower extremity for DVT and those who present with acute shortness of breath for PE. If a venous thromboembolic event is suspected, discontinue treatment with testosterone cypionate and initiate appropriate workup and management. Long term clinical safety trials have not been conducted to assess the cardiovascular outcomes of testosterone replacement therapy in men. To date, epidemiologic studies and randomized controlled trials have been inconclusive for determining the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), such as non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-­fatal stroke, and cardiovascular death, with the use of testosterone compared to non-use. Some studies, but not all, have reported an increased risk of MACE in association with use of testosterone replacement therapy in men. Patients should be informed of this possible risk when deciding whether to use or to continue to use testosterone cypionate injection. Testosterone has been subject to abuse, typically at doses higher than recommended for the approved indication and in combination with other anabolic androgenic steroids. Anabolic androgenic steroid abuse can lead to serious cardiovascular and psychiatric adverse reactions (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ). If testosterone abuse is suspected, check serum testosterone concentrations to ensure they are within therapeutic range. However, testosterone levels may be in the normal or subnormal range in men abusing synthetic testosterone derivatives. Counsel patients concerning the serious adverse reactions associated with abuse of testosterone and anabolic androgenic steroids. Conversely, consider the possibility of testosterone and anabolic androgenic steroid abuse in suspected patients who present with serious cardiovascular or psychiatric adverse events. Edema, with or without congestive heart failure, may be a serious complication in patients with pre-existing cardiac, renal or hepatic disease. Gynecomastia may develop and occasionally persists in patients being treated for hypogonadism. The preservative benzyl alcohol has been associated with serious adverse events, including the “gasping syndrome”, and death in pediatric patients. Although normal therapeutic doses of this product ordinarily deliver amounts of benzyl alcohol that are substantially lower than those reported in association with the “gasping syndrome”, the minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occur is not known. The risk of benzyl alcohol toxicity depends on the quantity administered and the liver and kidneys' capacity to detoxify the chemical. Premature and low-birth weight infants may be more likely to develop toxicity. Androgen therapy should be used cautiously in healthy males with delayed puberty. The effect on bone maturation should be monitored by assessing bone age of the wrist and hand every 6 months. In children, androgen treatment may accelerate bone maturation without producing compensatory gain in linear growth. This adverse effect may result in compromised adult stature. The younger the child the greater the risk of compromising final mature height. This drug has not been shown to be safe and effective for the enhancement of athletic performance. Because of the potential risk of serious adverse health effects, this drug should not be used for such purpose. Prolonged use of high doses of androgens (principally the 17-α alkyl-androgens) has been associated with development of hepatic adenomas, hepatocellular carcinoma, and peliosis hepatis – all potentially life-threatening complications. To date, epidemiologic studies and randomized controlled trials have been inconclusive for determining the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), such as non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke, and cardiovascular death, with the use of testosterone compared to non-use. Patients should be informed of this possible risk when deciding whether to use or to continue to use testosterone cypionate. The risk of benzyl alcohol toxicity depends on the quantity administered and the liver and kidneys’ capacity to detoxify the chemical. Anabolic androgenic steroid abuse can lead to serious cardiovascular and psychiatric adverse reactions [see Drug Abuse and Dependence]. The preservative benzyl alcohol has been associated with serious adverse events, including the "gasping syndrome", and death in pediatric patients. Although normal therapeutic doses of this product ordinarily deliver amounts of benzyl alcohol that are substantially lower than those reported in association with the "gasping syndrome", the minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occur is not known. Prolonged use of high doses of androgens (principally the 17-α alkyl-androgens) has been associated with development of hepatic adenomas, hepatocellular carcinoma, and peliosis hepatis - all potentially life-threatening complications. Patients should be informed of this possible risk when deciding whether to use or to continue to use DEPO-Testosterone (testosterone cypionate). Testosterone can increase blood pressure which can increase cardiovascular (CV) risk over time. Monitor blood pressure periodically in men using testosterone products, especially in men with hypertension. Testosterone products are not recommended for use in patients with uncontrolled hypertension.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS 1. Known hypersensitivity to the drug 2. Males with carcinoma of the breast 3. Males with known or suspected carcinoma of the prostate gland 4. Women who are pregnant (see PRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy ) 5. Patients with serious cardiac, hepatic or renal disease (see WARNINGS ) Women who are pregnant (see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy ) 5. Women who are pregnant (see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy) 5. Patients with serious cardiac, hepatic or renal disease (see WARNINGS) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS AZMIRO is contraindicated in: • Known hypersensitivity to AZMIRO or to any of its components [see Description ( 11 )]. Hypersensitivity, including skin manifestations and anaphylactoid reactions have been reported [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ) ]. • Men with carcinoma of the breast or known or suspected carcinoma of the prostate gland [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ]. • Women who are pregnant. Testosterone can cause virilization of the female fetus when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 ) ]. • Known hypersensitivity to AZMIRO or any of its components, skin manifestations and anaphylactoid reactions have been reported ( 4 ) • Men with carcinoma of the breast or known or suspected carcinoma of the prostate ( 4 ). Testosterone may cause fetal harm ( 4 ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to the drug Males with carcinoma of the breast Males with known or suspected carcinoma of the prostate gland Women who are pregnant (see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy ) Patients with serious cardiac, hepatic or renal disease (see WARNINGS )
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Androgens may increase sensitivity to oral anticoagulants. Dosage of the anticoagulant may require reduction in order to maintain satisfactory therapeutic hypoprothrombinemia. Concurrent administration of oxyphenbutazone and androgens may result in elevated serum levels of oxyphenbutazone. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, insulin requirements. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Insulin: In patients with diabetes, concomitant use with AZMIRO may decrease blood glucose and insulin requirements ( 7.1 ). • Oral Anticoagulants: Concomitant use with AZMIRO may cause changes in anticoagulant activity. Monitor International Normalized Ratio and prothrombin time frequently ( 7.2 ). • Corticosteroids: Concomitant use with AZMIRO may result in increased fluid retention. Use with caution, particularly in patients with cardiac, renal, or hepatic disease ( 7.3 ). 7.1 Insulin Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. 7.2 Oral Anticoagulants Changes in anticoagulant activity may be seen with androgens. Frequent monitoring of INR and prothrombin time may be necessary in patients taking anticoagulants, especially at the initiation and termination of androgen therapy. 7.3 Corticosteroids The concurrent use of testosterone with corticosteroids may result in increased fluid retention and should be monitored cautiously, particularly in patients with cardiac, renal or hepatic disease.

=== AMANTADINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP are indicated for the prophylaxis and treatment of signs and symptoms of infection caused by various strains of influenza A virus. Amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP are also indicated in the treatment of parkinsonism and drug-induced extrapyramidal reactions. Influenza A Prophylaxis Amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP are indicated for chemoprophylaxis against signs and symptoms of influenza A virus infection. Because amantadine does not completely prevent the host immune response to influenza A infection, individuals who take this drug may still develop immune responses to natural disease or vaccination and may be protected when later exposed to antigenically related viruses. Following vaccination during an influenza A outbreak, amantadine prophylaxis should be considered for the 2- to 4-week time period required to develop an antibody response. Influenza A Treatment Amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP are also indicated in the treatment of uncomplicated respiratory tract illness caused by influenza A virus strains especially when administered early in the course of illness. There are no well-controlled clinical studies demonstrating that treatment with amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP will avoid the development of influenza A virus pneumonitis or other complications in high risk patients. There is no clinical evidence indicating that amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP are effective in the prophylaxis or treatment of viral respiratory tract illnesses other than those caused by influenza A virus strains. The following points should be considered before initiating treatment or prophylaxis with amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP. • Amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP are not a substitute for early vaccination on an annual basis as recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. • Influenza viruses change over time. Emergence of resistance mutations could decrease drug effectiveness. Other factors (for example, changes in viral virulence) might also diminish clinical benefit of antiviral drugs. Prescribers should consider available information on influenza drug susceptibility patterns and treatment effects when deciding whether to use amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP. Parkinson’s Disease/Syndrome Amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP are indicated in the treatment of idiopathic Parkinson’s disease (Paralysis Agitans), postencephalitic parkinsonism and symptomatic parkinsonism which may follow injury to the nervous system by carbon monoxide intoxication. It is indicated in those elderly patients believed to develop parkinsonism in association with cerebral arteriosclerosis. In the treatment of Parkinson’s disease, amantadine is less effective than levodopa, (-)-3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)-L-alanine, and its efficacy in comparison with the anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs has not yet been established. Drug-Induced Extrapyramidal Reactions Amantadine hydrochloride, USP is indicated in the treatment of drug-induced extrapyramidal reactions. Although anticholinergic-type side effects have been noted with amantadine when used in patients with drug-induced extrapyramidal reactions, there is a lower incidence of these side effects than that observed with the anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP is indicated for the prophylaxis and treatment of signs and symptoms of infection caused by various strains of influenza A virus. Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP is also indicated in the treatment of parkinsonism and drug-induced extrapyramidal reactions. Influenza A Prophylaxis Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP is indicated for chemoprophylaxis against signs and symptoms of influenza A virus infection. Because Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP does not completely prevent the host immune response to influenza A infection, individuals who take this drug may still develop immune responses to natural disease or vaccination and may be protected when later exposed to antigenically related viruses. Following vaccination during an influenza A outbreak, Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP prophylaxis should be considered for the 2- to 4-week time period required to develop an antibody response. Influenza A Treatment Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP is also indicated in the treatment of uncomplicated respiratory tract illness caused by influenza A virus strains especially when administered early in the course of illness. There are no well-controlled clinical studies demonstrating that treatment with Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP will avoid the development of influenza A virus pneumonitis or other complications in high risk patients. There is no clinical evidence indicating that Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP is effective in the prophylaxis or treatment of viral respiratory tract illnesses other than those caused by influenza A v irus strains. The following points should be considered before initiating treatment or prophylaxis with Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP: Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP is not a substitute for early vaccination on an annual basis as recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. Influenza viruses change over time. Prescribers should consider available information on influenza drug susceptibility patterns and treatment effects when deciding whether to use Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP. Parkinson's Disease/Syndrome Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP is indicated in the treatment of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (Paralysis Agitans), postencephalitic parkinsonism, and symptomatic parkinsonism which may follow injury to the nervous system by carbon monoxide intoxication. In the treatment of Parkinson's disease, Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP is less effective than levodopa,(-)-3-(3,4dihydroxyphenyl)-L-alanine, and its efficacy in comparison with the anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs has not yet been established. Drug-Induced Extrapyramidal Reactions Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP is indicated in the treatment of drug-induced extrapyramidal reactions. Although anticholinergic-type side effects have been noted with Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP when used in patients with drug-induced extrapyramidal reactions, there is a lower incidence of these side effects than that observed with the anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs. Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets are indicated for the prophylaxis and treatment of signs and symptoms of infection caused by various strains of influenza A virus. Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets are also indicated in the treatment of parkinsonism and drug-induced extrapyramidal reactions. Influenza A Prophylaxis Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets are indicated for chemoprophylaxis against signs and symptoms of influenza A virus infection. Because Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets do not completely prevent the host immune response to influenza A infection, individuals who take this drug may still develop immune responses to natural disease or vaccination and may be protected when later exposed to antigenically related viruses. Following vaccination during an influenza A outbreak, Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets prophylaxis should be considered for the 2- to 4-week time period required to develop an antibody response. Influenza A Treatment Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets are also indicated in the treatment of uncomplicated respiratory tract illness caused by influenza A virus strains especially when administered early in the course of illness. There are no well-controlled clinical studies demonstrating that treatment with Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets will avoid the development of influenza A virus pneumonitis or other complications in high risk patients. There is no clinical evidence indicating that Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets are effective in the prophylaxis or treatment of viral respiratory tract illnesses other than those caused by influenza A virus strains. The following points should be considered before initiating treatment or prophylaxis with Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets: • Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets are not a substitute for early vaccination on an annual basis as recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. Prescribers should consider available information on influenza drug susceptibility patterns and treatment effects when deciding whether to use Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets. Parkinson's Disease/Syndrome Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets are indicated in the treatment of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (Paralysis Agitans), postencephalitic parkinsonism, and symptomatic parkinsonism which may follow injury to the nervous system by carbon monoxide intoxication. In the treatment of Parkinson's disease, Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets are less effective than levodopa, (-)-3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)-L-alanine, and its efficacy in comparison with the anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs has not yet been established. Drug-Induced Extrapyramidal Reactions Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets are indicated in the treatment of drug-induced extrapyramidal reactions. Although anticholinergic-type side effects have been noted with Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets when used in patients with drug-induced extrapyramidal reactions, there is a lower incidence of these side effects than that observed with the anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs. Influenza A Prophylaxis Amantadine hydrochloride capsules are indicated for chemoprophylaxis against signs and symptoms of influenza A virus infection. Influenza A Treatment Amantadine hydrochloride capsules are also indicated in the treatment of uncomplicated respiratory tract illness caused by influenza A virus strains especially when administered early in the course of illness. There are no well-controlled clinical studies demonstrating that treatment with amantadine hydrochloride capsules will avoid the development of influenza A virus pneumonitis or other complications in high risk patients. There is no clinical evidence indicating that amantadine hydrochloride capsules are effective in the prophylaxis or treatment of viral respiratory tract illnesses other than those caused by influenza A virus strains. The following points should be considered before initiating treatment or prophylaxis with amantadine hydrochloride capsules. Amantadine hydrochloride capsules are not a substitute for early vaccination on an annual basis as recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. Prescribers should consider available information on influenza drug susceptibility patterns and treatment effects when deciding whether to use amantadine hydrochloride capsules. Parkinson's Disease/Syndrome Amantadine hydrochloride capsules are indicated in the treatment of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (Paralysis Agitans), postencephalitic parkinsonism and symptomatic parkinsonism which may follow injury to the nervous system by carbon monoxide intoxication. In the treatment of Parkinson's disease, amantadine is less effective than levodopa, (-)-3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)-L-alanine, and its efficacy in comparison with the anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs has not yet been established. Drug-Induced Extrapyramidal Reactions Amantadine hydrochloride is indicated in the treatment of drug-induced extrapyramidal reactions. Amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP are not a substitute for early vaccination on an annual basis as recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. Parkinson's Disease/Syndrome Amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP are indicated in the treatment of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (Paralysis Agitans), postencephalitic parkinsonism and symptomatic parkinsonism which may follow injury to the nervous system by carbon monoxide intoxication. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amantadine Hydrochloride are indicated for the prophylaxis and treatment of signs and symptoms of infection caused by various strains of influenza A virus. Amantadine Hydrochloride are also indicated in the treatment of Parkinsonism and drug-induced extrapyramidal reactions. Influenza a Prophylaxis Amantadine Hydrochloride are indicated for chemoprophylaxis against signs and symptoms of influenza a virus infection. Because Amantadine Hydrochloride do not completely prevent the host immune response to influenza A infection, individuals who take this drug may still develop immune responses to natural disease or vaccination and may be protected when later exposed to antigenically related viruses. Following vaccination during an influenza A outbreak, Amantadine Hydrochloride prophylaxis should be considered for the 2- to 4- week time period required to develop an antibody response. Influenza A Treatment Amantadine Hydrochloride are also indicated in the treatment of uncomplicated respiratory tract illness caused by influenza A virus strains especially when administered early in the course of illness. There are no well-controlled clinical studies demonstrating that treatment with Amantadine Hydrochloride will avoid the development of influenza A virus pneumonitis or other complications in high-risk patients. There is no clinical evidence indicating that Amantadine Hydrochloride are effective in the prophylaxis or treatment of viral respiratory tract illnesses other than those caused by influenza A virus strains. The following points should be considered before initiating treatment or prophylaxis with Amantadine Hydrochloride: Amantadine Hydrochloride are not a substitute for early vaccination on an annual basis as recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. Prescribers should consider available information on influenza drug susceptibility patterns and treatment effects when deciding whether to use Amantadine Hydrochloride. Parkinson's disease / Syndrome Amantadine Hydrochloride are indicated in the treatment of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (Paralysis Agitans), post-encephalitic Parkinsonism, and symptomatic Parkinsonism, which may follow injury to the nervous system, by carbon monoxide intoxication. In the treatment of Parkinson's disease, Amantadine Hydrochloride are less effective than levodopa, (-)-3-(3, 4-dihydroxyphenyl)-L-alanine and its efficacy in comparison with the anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs has not yet been established. Drug-Induced Extrapyramidal Reactions Amantadine Hydrochloride are indicated in the treatment of drug-induced extrapyramidal reactions. Although anticholinergic-type side effects have been noted with Amantadine Hydrochloride when used in patients with drug-induced extrapyramidal reactions, there is a lower incidence of these side effects than that observed with the anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs. Indications and Usage Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution, USP is indicated for the prophylaxis and treatment of signs and symptoms of infection caused by various strains of influenza A virus. Amantadine hydrochloride is also indicated in the treatment of parkinsonism and drug-induced extrapyramidal reactions. Influenza A Prophylaxis: Amantadine hydrochloride is indicated for chemoprophylaxis against signs and symptoms of influenza A virus infection. Because amantadine hydrochloride does not completely prevent the host immune response to influenza A infection, individuals who take this drug may still develop immune responses to natural disease or vaccination and may be protected when later exposed to antigenically related viruses. Following vaccination during an influenza A outbreak, amantadine hydrochloride prophylaxis should be considered for the 2- to 4-week time period required to develop an antibody response. Influenza A Treatment: Amantadine hydrochloride is also indicated in the treatment of uncomplicated respiratory tract illness caused by influenza A virus strains especially when administered early in the course of illness. There are no well-controlled clinical studies demonstrating that treatment with amantadine hydrochloride will avoid the development of influenza A virus pneumonitis or other complications in high risk patients. There is no clinical evidence indicating that amantadine hydrochloride is effective in the prophylaxis or treatment of viral respiratory tract illnesses other than those caused by influenza A virus strains. The following points should be considered before initiating treatment or prophylaxis with amantadine hydrochloride: • Amantadine hydrochloride is not a substitute for early vaccination on an annual basis as recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. Parkinson’s Disease/Syndrome: Amantadine hydrochloride is indicated in the treatment of idiopathic Parkinson’s disease (Paralysis Agitans), postencephalitic parkinsonism, and symptomatic parkinsonism which may follow injury to the nervous system by carbon monoxide intoxication. In the treatment of Parkinson’s disease, amantadine hydrochloride is less effective than levodopa, (-)-3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)-L-alanine, and its efficacy in comparison with the anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs has not yet been established. Drug-Induced Extrapyramidal Reactions: Amantadine hydrochloride is indicated in the treatment of drug-induced extrapyramidal reactions. Parkinson’s Disease/Syndrome Amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP are indicated in the treatment of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (Paralysis Agitans), postencephalitic parkinsonism and symptomatic parkinsonism which may follow injury to the nervous system by carbon monoxide intoxication. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets are indicated for the prophylaxis and treatment of signs and symptoms of infection caused by various strains of influenza A virus.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of amantadine hydrochloride capsules may need reduction in patients with congestive heart failure, peripheral edema, orthostatic hypotension, or impaired renal function (see Dosage for Impaired Renal Function ). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP (Amantadine Hydrochloride, USP) may need reduction in patients with congestive heart failure, peripheral edema, orthostatic hypotension, or impaired renal function (see Dosage for Impaired Renal Function ). Dosage for Prophylaxis and Treatment of Uncomplicated Influenza A Virus Illness Adult The adult daily dosage of Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP is 200 mg; two 100 mg tablets (or four teaspoonfuls of syrup) as a single daily dose. The daily dosage may be split into one tablet of 100 mg (or two teaspoonfuls of syrup) twice a day. If central nervous system effects develop in once-a-day dosage, a split dosage schedule may reduce such complaints. In persons 65 years of age or older, the daily dosage of Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP is 100 mg. A 100 mg daily dose has also been shown in experimental challenge studies to be effective as prophylaxis in healthy adults who are not at high risk for influenza-related complications. However, it has not been demonstrated that a 100 mg daily dose is as effective as a 200 mg daily dose for prophylaxis, nor has the 100 mg daily dose been studied in the treatment of acute influenza illness. In recent clinical trials, the incidence of central nervous system (CNS) side effects associated with the 100 mg daily dose was at or near the level of placebo. The 100 mg dose is recommended for persons who have demonstrated intolerance to 200 mg of Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP daily because of CNS or other toxicities. Pediatric Patients 1 yr.-9 yrs. of age The total daily dose should be calculated on the basis of 2 to 4 mg/lb/day (4.4 to 8.8 mg/kg/day), but not to exceed 150 mg per day. 9 yrs.-12 yrs. of age The total daily dose is 200 mg given as one tablet of 100 mg (or two teaspoonfuls of syrup) twice a day. The 100 mg daily dose has not been studied in this pediatric population. Therefore, there are no data which demonstrate that this dose is as effective as or is safer than the 200 mg daily dose in this patient population. Prophylactic dosing should be started in anticipation of an influenza A outbreak and before or after contact with individuals with influenza A virus respiratory tract illness. Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP should be continued daily for at least 10 days following a known exposure. If Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP is used chemoprophylactically in conjunction with inactivated influenza A virus vaccine until protective antibody responses develop, then it should be administered for 2 to 4 weeks after the vaccine has been given. When inactivated influenza A virus vaccine is unavailable or contraindicated, Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP should be administered for the duration of known influenza A in the community because of repeated and unknown exposure. Treatment of influenza A virus illness should be started as soon as possible, preferably within 24 to 48 hours after onset of signs and symptoms, and should be continued for 24 to 48 hours after the disappearance of signs and symptoms. Dosage for Parkinsonism Adult The usual dose of Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP is 100 mg twice a day when used alone. Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP has an onset of action usually within 48 hours. The initial dose of Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP is 100 mg daily for patients with serious associated medical illnesses or who are receiving high doses of other antiparkinson drugs. After one to several weeks at 100 mg once daily, the dose may be increased to 100 mg twice daily, if necessary. Occasionally, patients whose responses are not optimal with Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP at 200 mg daily may benefit from an increase up to 400 mg daily in divided doses. However, such patients should be supervised closely by their physicians. Patients initially deriving benefit from Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP not uncommonly experience a fall-off of effectiveness after a few months. Benefit may be regained by increasing the dose to 300 mg daily. Alternatively, temporary discontinuation of Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP for several weeks, followed by reinitiation of the drug, may result in regaining benefit in some patients. A decision to use other antiparkinson drugs may be necessary. Dosage for Concomitant Therapy Some patients who do not respond to anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs may respond to Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP. When Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP or anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs are each used with marginal benefit, concomitant use may produce additional benefit. When Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP and levodopa are initiated concurrently, the patient can exhibit rapid therapeutic benefits. Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP should be held constant at 100 mg daily or twice daily while the daily dose of levodopa is gradually increased to optimal benefit. When Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP is added to optimal well-tolerated doses of levodopa, additional benefit may result, including smoothing out the fluctuations in improvement which sometimes occur in patients on levodopa alone. Patients who require a reduction in their usual dose of levodopa because of development of side effects may possibly regain lost benefit with the addition of Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP. Dosage for Drug-Induced Extrapyramidal Reactions Adult The usual dose of Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP is 100 mg twice a day. Occasionally, patients whose responses are not optimal with Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP at 200 mg daily may benefit from an increase up to 300 mg daily in divided doses. Dosage for Impaired Renal Function Depending upon creatinine clearance, the following dosage adjustments are recommended: CREATININE CLEARANCE DOSAGE Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP (mL/min/1.73m 2 ) 30-50 200 mg 1 st day and 100 mg each day thereafter 15-29 200 mg 1 st day followed by 100 mg on alternate days <15 200 mg every 7 days The recommended dosage for patients on hemodialysis is 200 mg every 7 days. The dose of Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets may need reduction in patients with congestive heart failure, peripheral edema, orthostatic hypotension, or impaired renal function (see Dosage for Impaired Renal Function). Dosage for Prophylaxis and Treatment of Uncomplicated Influenza A Virus Illness Adult The adult daily dosage of Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets is 200 mg; two 100 mg tablets as a single daily dose. The daily dosage may be split into one tablet of 100 mg twice a day. In persons 65 years of age or older, the daily dosage of Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets is 100 mg. The 100 mg dose is recommended for persons who have demonstrated intolerance to 200 mg of Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets daily because of CNS or other toxicities. Pediatric Patients 1 yr. to 9 yrs. 9 yrs. to 12 yrs. of age The total daily dose is 200 mg given as one tablet of 100 mg twice a day. Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets should be continued daily for at least 10 days following a known exposure. If Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets are used chemoprophylactically in conjunction with inactivated influenza A virus vaccine until protective antibody responses develop, then it should be administered for 2 to 4 weeks after the vaccine has been given. When inactivated influenza A virus vaccine is unavailable or contraindicated, Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets should be administered for the duration of known influenza A in the community because of repeated and unknown exposure. Dosage for Parkinsonism Adult The usual dose of Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets is 100 mg twice a day when used alone. Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets have an onset of action usually within 48 hours. The initial dose of Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets is 100 mg daily for patients with serious associated medical illnesses or who are receiving high doses of other antiparkinson drugs. Occasionally, patients whose responses are not optimal with Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets at 200 mg daily may benefit from an increase up to 400 mg daily in divided doses. Patients initially deriving benefit from Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets not uncommonly experience a fall-off of effectiveness after a few months. Alternatively, temporary discontinuation of Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets for several weeks, followed by reinitiation of the drug, may result in regaining benefit in some patients. Dosage for the Concomitant Therapy Some patients who do not respond to anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs may respond to Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets. When Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets or anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs are each used with marginal benefit, concomitant use may produce additional benefit. When Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets and levodopa are initiated concurrently, the patient can exhibit rapid therapeutic benefits. Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets should be held constant at 100 mg daily or twice daily while the daily dose of levodopa is gradually increased to optimal benefit. When Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets are added to optimal well-tolerated doses of levodopa, additional benefit may result, including smoothing out the fluctuations in improvement which sometimes occur in patients on levodopa alone. Patients who require a reduction in their usual dose of levodopa because of development of side effects may possibly regain lost benefit with the addition of Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets. Dosage for Drug-Induced Extrapyramidal Reactions Adult The usual dose of Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets is 100 mg twice a day. Occasionally, patients whose responses are not optimal with Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets at 200 mg daily may benefit from an increase up to 300 mg daily in divided doses. Dosage for Impaired Renal Function Depending upon creatinine clearance, the following dosage adjustments are recommended: CREATININE CLEARANCE (mL/min/1.73m2) AMANTADINE HYDROCHLORIDE TABLETS DOSAGE 30 to 50 200 mg 1st day and 100 mg each day thereafter 15 to 29 200 mg 1st day followed by 100 mg on alternate days <15 200 mg every 7 days The recommended dosage for patients on hemodialysis is 200 mg every 7 days. Dosage for Prophylaxis and Treatment of Uncomplicated Influenza A Virus Illness Adult The adult daily dosage of amantadine hydrochloride capsules is 200 mg; two 100 mg capsules as a single daily dose. The daily dosage may be split into one capsule of 100 mg twice a day. In persons 65 years of age or older, the daily dosage of amantadine hydrochloride capsules is 100 mg. The 100 mg dose is recommended for persons who have demonstrated intolerance to 200 mg of amantadine hydrochloride daily because of CNS or other toxicities. of age The total daily dose is 200 mg given as one capsule of 100 mg twice a day. Amantadine hydrochloride capsules should be continued daily for at least 10 days following a known exposure. If amantadine is used chemoprophylactically in conjunction with inactivated influenza A virus vaccine until protective antibody responses develop, then it should be administered for 2 to 4 weeks after the vaccine has been given. When inactivated influenza A virus vaccine is unavailable or contraindicated, amantadine hydrochloride capsules should be administered for the duration of known influenza A in the community because of repeated and unknown exposure. Dosage for Parkinsonism Adult The usual dose of amantadine hydrochloride capsules is 100 mg twice a day when used alone. Amantadine has an onset of action usually within 48 hours. The initial dose of amantadine hydrochloride capsules is 100 mg daily for patients with serious associated medical illnesses or who are receiving high doses of other antiparkinson drugs. Occasionally, patients whose responses are not optimal with amantadine hydrochloride capsules at 200 mg daily may benefit from an increase up to 400 mg daily in divided doses. Patients initially deriving benefit from amantadine hydrochloride capsules not uncommonly experience a fall-off of effectiveness after a few months. Alternatively, temporary discontinuation of amantadine hydrochloride capsules for several weeks, followed by reinitiation of the drug, may result in regaining benefit in some patients. Dosage for Concomitant Therapy Some patients who do not respond to anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs may respond to amantadine hydrochloride capsules. When amantadine hydrochloride capsules or anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs are each used with marginal benefit, concomitant use may produce additional benefit. When amantadine and levodopa are initiated concurrently, the patient can exhibit rapid therapeutic benefits. Amantadine hydrochloride capsules should be held constant at 100 mg daily or twice daily while the daily dose of levodopa is gradually increased to optimal benefit. When amantadine is added to optimal well-tolerated doses of levodopa, additional benefit may result, including smoothing out the fluctuations in improvement which sometimes occur in patients on levodopa alone. Patients who require a reduction in their usual dose of levodopa because of development of side effects may possibly regain lost benefit with the addition of amantadine hydrochloride capsules. Dosage for Drug Induced Extrapyramidal Reactions Adult The usual dose of amantadine hydrochloride capsules is 100 mg twice a day. Occasionally, patients whose responses are not optimal with amantadine hydrochloride capsules at 200 mg daily may benefit from an increase up to 300 mg daily in divided doses. Dosage for Impaired Renal Function Depending upon creatinine clearance, the following dosage adjustments are recommended: CREATININE CLEARANCE (mL/min/1.73m 2 ) AMANTADINE HYDROCHLORIDE CAPSULES DOSAGE 30 to 50 200 mg 1st day and 100 mg each day thereafter 15 to 29 200 mg 1st day followed by 100 mg on alternate days <15 200 mg every 7 days The recommended dosage for patients on hemodialysis is 200 mg every 7 days. 9yrs. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of Amantadine Hydrochloride may need reduction in patients with congestive heart failure, peripheral edema, orthostatic hypotension, or impaired renal function (see Dosage for Impaired Renal Function ). Dosage for Prophylaxis and Treatment of Uncomplicated Influenza A Virus Illness Adult The adult daily dosage of Amantadine Hydrochloride is 200 mg; two 100 mg as a single daily dose. In persons 65 years of age or older, the daily dosage of Amantadine Hydrochloride is 100 mg. Therefore, there are no data, which demonstrate that this dose is as effective as or is safer than the 200 mg daily dose in this patient population. Amantadine Hydrochloride should be continued daily for at least 10 days following a known exposure. If Amantadine Hydrochloride are used chemoprophylactically in conjunction with inactivated influenza A virus vaccine until protective antibody responses develop, then it should be administered for 2 to 4 weeks after the vaccine has been given. When inactivated influenza A virus vaccine is unavailable or contraindicated, Amantadine Hydrochloride should be administered for the duration of known influenza A in the community because of repeated and unknown exposure. Dosage for Parkinsonism Adult The usual dose of Amantadine Hydrochloride is 100 mg twice a day when used alone. Amantadine Hydrochloride have an onset of action usually within 48 hours. The initial dose of Amantadine Hydrochloride is 100 mg daily for patients with serious associated medical illnesses or who are receiving high doses of other antiparkinson drugs. Occasionally, patients whose responses are not optimal with Amantadine Hydrochloride at 200 mg daily may benefit from an increase up to 400 mg daily in divided doses. Patients initially deriving benefit from Amantadine Hydrochloride not uncommonly experience a fall-off of effectiveness after a few months. Alternatively, temporary discontinuation of Amantadine Hydrochloride for several weeks, followed by reinitiation of the drug, may result in regaining benefit in some patients. Dosage for the Concomitant Therapy Some patients who do not respond to anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs may respond to Amantadine Hydrochloride When Amantadine Hydrochloride or anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs are each used with marginal benefit, concomitant use may produce additional benefit. When Amantadine Hydrochloride and levodopa are initiated concurrently, the patient can exhibit rapid therapeutic benefits. Amantadine Hydrochloride should be held constant at 100 mg daily or twice daily while the daily dose of levodopa is gradually increased to optimal benefit. When Amantadine Hydrochloride are added to optimal well-tolerated doses of levodopa, additional benefit may result, including smoothing out the fluctuations in improvement which sometimes occur in patients on levodopa alone. Patients who require a reduction in their usual dose of levodopa because of development of side effects may possibly regain lost benefit with the addition of Amantadine Hydrochloride Dosage for Drug-Induced Extrapyramidal Reactions Adult The usual dose of Amantadine Hydrochloride is 100 mg twice a day. Occasionally, patients whose responses are not optimal with Amantadine Hydrochloride at 200 mg daily may benefit from an increase up to 300 mg daily in divided doses. Dosage for Impaired Renal Function Depending upon creatinine clearance, the following dosage adjustments are recommended: CREATININE CLEARANCE (mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) AMANTADINE HYDROCLORIDE DOSAGE 30 to 50 200 mg 1st day and 100 mg each day thereafter 15 to 29 200 mg 1st day followed by 100 mg on alternate days < 15 200 mg every 7 days The recommended dosage for patients on hemodialysis is 200 mg every 7 days. Dosage for Prophylaxis and Treatment of Uncomplicated Influenza A Virus Illness: Adult: The adult daily dosage of amantadine hydrochloride is 200 mg (four teaspoonfuls of oral solution) as a single daily dose. The daily dosage may be split into two teaspoonfuls of oral solution twice a day. Pediatric Patients: 1 yr. of age: The total daily dose should be calculated on the basis of 2 to 4 mg/lb/day (4.4 to 8.8 mg/kg/day), but not to exceed 150 mg per day. of age: The total daily dose is 200 mg given as two teaspoonfuls of oral solution twice a day. If amantadine hydrochloride is used chemoprophylactically in conjunction with inactivated influenza A virus vaccine until protective antibody responses develop, then it should be administered for 2 to 4 weeks after the vaccine has been given. Dosage for Parkinsonism: Adult: The usual dose of amantadine hydrochloride is 100 mg twice a day when used alone. Amantadine hydrochloride has an onset of action usually within 48 hours. Dosage for Concomitant Therapy: Some patients who do not respond to anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs may respond to amantadine hydrochloride. When amantadine hydrochloride or anticholinergic antiparkinson drugs are each used with marginal benefit, concomitant use may produce additional benefit. When amantadine hydrochloride is added to optimal well-tolerated doses of levodopa, additional benefit may result, including smoothing out the fluctuations in improvement which sometimes occur in patients on levodopa alone. Patients who require a reduction in their usual dose of levodopa because of development of side effects may possibly regain lost benefit with the addition of amantadine hydrochloride. Dosage for Drug-Induced Extrapyramidal Reactions: Adult: The usual dose of amantadine hydrochloride is 100 mg twice a day. Dosage for Impaired Renal Function: Depending upon creatinine clearance, the following dosage adjustments are recommended: The recommended dosage for patients on hemodialysis is 200 mg every 7 days. dosage DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of amantadine hydrochloride capsules may need reduction in patients with congestive heart failure, peripheral edema, orthostatic hypotension, or impaired renal function ( see Dosage for Impaired Renal Function ). Dosage for Impaired Renal Function Depending upon creatinine clearance, the following dosage adjustments are recommended: CREATININE CLEARANCE ( mL / min / 1 . 73m 2 ) AMANTADINE HYDROCHLORIDE CAPSULES DOSAGE 30 to 50 200 mg 1st day and 100 mg each day thereafter 15 to 29 200 mg 1st day followed by 100 mg on alternate days <15 200 mg every 7 days The recommended dosage for patients on hemodialysis is 200 mg every 7 days. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets may need reduction in patients with congestive heart failure, peripheral edema, orthostatic hypotension, or impaired renal function (see Dosage for Impaired Renal Function). Dosage for Impaired Renal Function Depending upon creatinine clearance, the following dosage adjustments are recommended: CREATININE CLEARANCE (mL/min/1.73m 2 ) AMANTADINE HYDROCHLORIDE TABLETS DOSAGE 30 to 50 200 mg 1st day and 100 mg each day thereafter 15 to 29 200 mg 1st day followed by 100 mg on alternate days <15 200 mg every 7 days The recommended dosage for patients on hemodialysis is 200 mg every 7 days.
Warnings: WARNINGS Deaths Deaths have been reported from overdose with amantadine. The lowest reported acute lethal dose was 1 gram. Acute toxicity may be attributable to the anticholinergic effects of amantadine. Drug overdose has resulted in cardiac, respiratory, renal or central nervous system toxicity. Cardiac dysfunction includes arrhythmia, tachycardia and hypertension (see OVERDOSAGE ). Deaths due to drug accumulation (overdosage) have been reported in patients with renal impairment, who were prescribed higher than recommended doses of amantadine hydrochloride for their level of renal function [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Dosage of Impaired Renal Function and OVERDOSAGE ]. Suicide Attempts Suicide attempts, some of which have been fatal, have been reported in patients treated with amantadine, many of whom received short courses for influenza treatment or prophylaxis. The incidence of suicide attempts is not known and the pathophysiologic mechanism is not understood. Suicide attempts and suicidal ideation have been reported in patients with and without prior history of psychiatric illness. Amantadine can exacerbate mental problems in patients with a history of psychiatric disorders or substance abuse. Patients who attempt suicide may exhibit abnormal mental states which include disorientation, confusion, depression, personality changes, agitation, aggressive behavior, hallucinations, paranoia, other psychotic reactions, and somnolence or insomnia. Because of the possibility of serious adverse effects, caution should be observed when prescribing amantadine hydrochloride capsules to patients being treated with drugs having CNS effects, or for whom the potential risks outweigh the benefit of treatment. CNS Effects Patients with a history of epilepsy or other “seizures” should be observed closely for possible increased seizure activity. Patients receiving amantadine hydrochloride who note central nervous system effects or blurring of vision should be cautioned against driving or working in situations where alertness and adequate motor coordination are important. Other Patients with a history of congestive heart failure or peripheral edema should be followed closely as there are patients who developed congestive heart failure while receiving amantadine hydrochloride. Patients with Parkinson’s disease improving on amantadine hydrochloride capsules should resume normal activities gradually and cautiously, consistent with other medical considerations, such as the presence of osteoporosis or phlebothrombosis. Because amantadine hydrochloride capsules has anticholinergic effects and may cause mydriasis, it should not be given to patients with untreated angle closure glaucoma. Corneal Edema Corneal edema has been reported in patients taking amantadine. Symptoms include sudden onset of blurry vision, or progressive vision loss, with or without eye pain. Corneal involvement is usually bilateral. Onset can occur from a few weeks to several years after starting amantadine. Resolution of symptoms typically begins within weeks of amantadine cessation. However, corneal grafts have been required in some patients when the condition is not recognized. Permanent damage can occur if amantadine is continued. Ask patients if their vision has changed and obtain ophthalmologic examinations to rule out corneal edema should vision changes occur after initiation of therapy with amantadine hydrochloride capsules. If corneal edema occurs, taper and discontinue amantadine hydrochloride capsules [see Dosage and Administration ]. WARNINGS Deaths Deaths have been reported from overdose with Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP. Deaths due to drug accumulation (overdosage) have been reported in patients with renal impairment, who were prescribed higher than recommended doses of Amantadine Hydrochloride for their level of renal function (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION; Dosage of Impaired Renal Function and OVERDOSAGE ). Suicide Attempts Suicide attempts, some of which have been fatal, have been reported in patients treated with Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP, many of whom received short courses for influenza treatment or prophylaxis. Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP can exacerbate mental problems in patients with a history of psychiatric disorders or substance abuse. Because of the possibility of serious adverse effects, caution should be observed when prescribing Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP to patients being treated with drugs having CNS effects, or for whom the potential risks outweigh the benefit of treatment. CNS Effects Patients with a history of epilepsy or other "seizures" should be observed closely for possible increased seizure activity. Patients receiving Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP who note central nervous system effects or blurring of vision should be cautioned against driving or working in situations where alertness and adequate motor coordination are important. Other Patients with a history of congestive heart failure or peripheral edema should be followed closely as there are patients who developed congestive heart failure while receiving Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP. Patients with Parkinson's disease improving on Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP should resume normal activities gradually and cautiously, consistent with other medical considerations, such as the presence of osteoporosis or phlebothrombosis. Because Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP has anticholinergic effects and may cause mydriasis, it should not be given to patients with untreated angle closure glaucoma. Deaths Deaths have been reported from overdose with amantadine hydrochloride. Cardiac dysfunction includes arrhythmia, tachycardia and hypertension (see OVERDOSAGE). Deaths due to drug accumulation (overdosage) have been reported in patients with renal impairment, who were prescribed higher than recommended doses of Amantadine Hydrochloride Capsules, USP for their level of renal function (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION; Dosage of Impaired Renal Function and OVERDOSAGE). Suicide Attempts Suicide attempts, some of which have been fatal, have been reported in patients treated with amantadine hydrochloride, many of whom received short courses for influenza treatment or prophylaxis. Amantadine hydrochloride can exacerbate mental problems in patients with a history of psychiatric disorders or substance abuse. Because of the possibility of serious adverse effects, caution should be observed when prescribing Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets to patients being treated with drugs having CNS effects, or for whom the potential risks outweigh the benefit of treatment. Patients receiving Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets who note central nervous system effects or blurring of vision should be cautioned against driving or working in situations where alertness and adequate motor coordination are important. Other Patients with a history of congestive heart failure or peripheral edema should be followed closely as there are patients who developed congestive heart failure while receiving Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets. Patients with Parkinson's disease improving on Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets should resume normal activities gradually and cautiously, consistent with other medical considerations, such as the presence of osteoporosis or phlebothrombosis. Because Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets have anticholinergic effects and may cause mydriasis, it should not be given to patients with untreated angle closure glaucoma. Deaths due to drug accumulation (overdosage) have been reported in patients with renal impairment, who were prescribed higher than recommended doses of Amantadine Hydrochloride for their level of renal function (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Dosage of Impaired Renal Function and OVERDOSAGE ). Patients who attempt suicide may exhibit abnormal mental states which include disorientation, confusion, depression, personality changes, agitation, aggressive behavior, hallucinations, paranoia, other psychotic reactions and somnolence or insomnia. Patients receiving amantadine hydrochloride capsules who note central nervous system effects or blurring of vision should be cautioned against driving or working in situations where alertness and adequate motor coordination are important. Other Patients with a history of congestive heart failure or peripheral edema should be followed closely as there are patients who developed congestive heart failure while receiving amantadine hydrochloride capsules. Patients with Parkinson's disease improving on amantadine hydrochloride capsules should resume normal activities gradually and cautiously, consistent with other medical considerations, such as the presence of osteoporosis or phlebothrombosis. Because Amantadine Hydrochloride Capsules, USP has anticholinergic effects and may cause mydriasis, it should not be given to patients with untreated angle closure glaucoma. Ask patients if their vision has changed and obtain ophthalmologic examination to rule out corneal edema should vision changes occur after initiation of therapy with amantadine. If corneal edema occurs, taper and discontinue amantadine [see Dosage and Administration]. Deaths due to drug accumulation (overdosage) have been reported in patients with renal impairment, who were prescribed higher than recommended doses of Amantadine Hydrochloride for their level of renal function (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION; Dosage of Impaired Renal Function and OVERDOSAGE). Patients who attempt suicide may exhibit abnormal mental states which include disorientation, confusion, depression, personality changes, agitation, aggressive behaviour, hallucinations, paranoia, other psychotic reactions and somnolence or insomnia. WARNINGS Deaths Deaths have been reported from overdose with amantadine hydrochloride. Cardiac dysfunction includes arrhythmia; tachycardia and hypertension (see OVERDOSAGE ). Deaths due to drug accumulation (overdosage) have been reported in patients with renal impairment, who were prescribed higher than recommended doses of Amantadine Hydrochloride USP for their level of renal function (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ; Dosage of Impaired Renal Function and OVERDOSAGE ). Patients who attempt suicide may exhibit abnormal mental states, which include disorientation, confusion, depression, personality changes, agitation, aggressive behavior, hallucinations, paranoia, other psychotic reactions, and somnolence or insomnia. Because of the possibility of serious adverse effects, caution should be observed when prescribing Amantadine Hydrochloride to patients being treated with drugs having CNS effects, or for whom the potential risks outweigh the benefit of treatment. Patients with Parkinson's disease improving on Amantadine Hydrochloride should resume normal activities gradually and cautiously, consistent with other medical considerations, such as the presence of osteoporosis or phlebothrombosis. Because Amantadine Hydrochloride have anticholinergic effects and may cause mydriasis, it should not be given to patients with untreated angle closure glaucoma. WARNINGS Deaths : Deaths have been reported from overdose with amantadine hydrochloride. Acute toxicity may be attributable to the anticholinergic effects of amantadine hydrochloride. Deaths due to drug accumulation (overdose) have been reported in patients with renal impairment, who were prescribed higher than recommended doses of amantadine hydrochloride for their level of renal function (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ; Dosage of Impaired Renal Function and OVERDOSAGE ). Suicide Attempts : Suicide attempts, some of which have been fatal, have been reported in patients treated with amantadine hydrochloride, many of whom received short courses for influenza treatment or prophylaxis. CNS Effects: Patients with a history of epilepsy or other “seizures” should be observed closely for possible increased seizure activity. Other : Patients with a history of congestive heart failure or peripheral edema should be followed closely as there are patients who developed congestive heart failure while receiving amantadine hydrochloride. Patients with Parkinson’s disease improving on amantadine hydrochloride should resume normal activities gradually and cautiously, consistent with other medical considerations, such as the presence of osteoporosis or phlebothrombosis. Because amantadine hydrochloride has anticholinergic effects and may cause mydriasis, it should not be given to patients with untreated angle closure glaucoma. Corneal Edema : Corneal edema has been reported in patients taking amantadine. Ask patients if their vision has changed and obtain ophthalmologic examinations to rule out corneal edema should vision changes occur after initiation of therapy with amantadine. If corneal edema occurs, taper and discontinue amantadine [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ]. The lowest reported acute lethal dose was 1gram. Cardiac dysfunction includes arrhythmia, tachycardia and hypertension ( see OVERDOSAGE ).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to amantadine hydrochloride or to any of the other ingredients in amantadine hydrochloride capsules, USP. CONTRAINDICATIONS Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to amantadine hydrochloride or to any of the other ingredients in Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP. Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to amantadine hydrochloride or to any of the other ingredients in Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets. CONTRAINDICATIONS Amantadine Hydrochloride are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to amantadine hydrochloride or to any of the other ingredients in Amantadine Hydrochloride Contraindications Amantadine hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to amantadine hydrochloride or to any of the other ingredients in Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution, USP. CONTRAINDICATIONS Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to amantadine hydrochloride or to any of the other ingredients in Amantadine Hydrochloride Tablets.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Careful observation is required when amantadine is administered concurrently with central nervous system stimulants. Agents with anticholinergic properties may potentiate the anticholinergic-like side effects of amantadine. Coadministration of thioridazine has been reported to worsen the tremor in elderly patients with Parkinson’s disease, however, it is not known if other phenothiazines produce a similar response. Coadministration of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules resulted in a higher plasma amantadine concentration in a 61-year-old man receiving amantadine (hydrochloride capsules) 100 mg t.i.d. for Parkinson’s disease 1 . It is not known which of the components of triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide capsules contributed to the observation or if related drugs produce a similar response. Coadministration of quinine or quinidine with amantadine was shown to reduce the renal clearance of amantadine by about 30%. The concurrent use of amantadine with live attenuated influenza vaccine (LAIV) intranasal has not been evaluated. However, because of the potential for interference between these products, LAIV should not be administered within 2 weeks before or 48 hours after administration of amantadine, unless medically indicated. The concern about possible interference arises from the potential for antiviral drugs to inhibit replication of live vaccine virus. Trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine can be administered at any time relative to use of amantadine. Drug Interactions Careful observation is required when Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP is administered concurrently with central nervous system stimulants. Coadministration of thioridazine has been reported to worsen the tremor in elderly patients with Parkinson's disease, however, it is not known if other phenothiazines produce a similar response. Coadministration of Dyazide (triamterene/hydrochlorothiazide) resulted in a higher plasma amantadine concentration in a 61-year-old man receiving Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP (Amantadine Hydrochloride, USP) 100 mg TID for Parkinson's disease.1 It is not known which of the components of Dyazide contributed to the observation or if related drugs produce a similar response. The concurrent use of Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP with live attenuated influenza vaccine (LAIV) intranasal has not been evaluated. However, because of the potential for interference between these products, LAIV should not be administered within 2 weeks before or 48 hours after administration of Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP, unless medically indicated. Trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine can be administered at any time relative to use of Amantadine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP. Drug Interactions Careful observation is required when amantadine hydrochloride is administered concurrently with central nervous system stimulants. Coadministration of Dyazide (triamterene/hydrochlorothiazide) resulted in a higher plasma amantadine concentration in a 61-year-old man receiving amantadine hydrochloride 100 mgTID. For Parkinson's disease.1 It is not known which of the components of Dyazide contributed to the observation or if related drugs produce a similar response. The concurrent use of amantadine hydrochloride with live attenuated influenza vaccine (LAIV) intranasal has not been evaluated. However, because of the potential for interference between these products, LAIV should not be administered within 2 weeks before or 48 hours after administration of amantadine hydrochloride, unless medically indicated. Trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine can be administered at any time relative to use of amantadine hydrochloride. for Parkinson's disease 1 .

=== ATOMOXETINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Atomoxetine capsule is a selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor indicated for the treatment of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) Atomoxetine capsule is indicated for the treatment of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). The efficacy of atomoxetine capsules was established in seven clinical trials in outpatients with ADHD: four 6 to 9-week trials in pediatric patients (ages 6 to 18), two 10-week trial in adults, and one maintenance trial in pediatrics (ages 6 to 15) [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. 1.2 Diagnostic Considerations A diagnosis of ADHD (DSM-IV) implies the presence of hyperactive-impulsive or inattentive symptoms that cause impairment and that were present before age 7 years. The symptoms must be persistent, must be more severe than is typically observed in individuals at a comparable level of development, must cause clinically significant impairment, e.g., in social, academic, or occupational functioning, and must be present in 2 or more settings, e.g., school (or work) and at home. The symptoms must not be better accounted for by another mental disorder. The specific etiology of ADHD is unknown, and there is no single diagnostic test. Adequate diagnosis requires the use not only of medical but also of special psychological, educational, and social resources. Learning may or may not be impaired. The diagnosis must be based upon a complete history and evaluation of the patient and not solely on the presence of the required number of DSM-IV characteristics. For the Inattentive Type, at least 6 of the following symptoms must have persisted for at least 6 months: lack of attention to details/careless mistakes, lack of sustained attention, poor listener, failure to follow through on tasks, poor organization, avoids tasks requiring sustained mental effort, loses things, easily distracted, forgetful. For the Hyperactive-Impulsive Type, at least 6 of the following symptoms must have persisted for at least 6 months: fidgeting/squirming, leaving seat, inappropriate running/climbing, difficulty with quiet activities, “on the go,” excessive talking, blurting answers, can’t wait turn, intrusive. For a Combined Type diagnosis, both inattentive and hyperactive-impulsive criteria must be met. 1.3 Need for Comprehensive Treatment Program Atomoxetine capsule is indicated as an integral part of a total treatment program for ADHD that may include other measures (psychological, educational, social) for patients with this syndrome. Drug treatment may not be indicated for all patients with this syndrome. Drug treatment is not intended for use in the patient who exhibits symptoms secondary to environmental factors and/or other primary psychiatric disorders, including psychosis. Appropriate educational placement is essential in children and adolescents with this diagnosis and psychosocial intervention is often helpful. When remedial measures alone are insufficient, the decision to prescribe drug treatment medication will depend upon the physician’s assessment of the chronicity and severity of the patient’s symptoms. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Atomoxetine capsules are selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor indicated for the treatment of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) Atomoxetine capsules are indicated for the treatment of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). The efficacy of atomoxetine capsules was established in seven clinical trials in outpatients with ADHD: four 6 to 9-week trials in pediatric patients (ages 6 to 18), two 10-week trial in adults, and one maintenance trial in pediatrics (ages 6 to 15) [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . For the Hyperactive-Impulsive Type, at least 6 of the following symptoms must have persisted for at least 6 months: fidgeting/squirming, leaving seat, inappropriate running/climbing, difficulty with quiet activities, “on the go,” excessive talking, blurting answers, can't wait turn, intrusive. 1.3 Need for Comprehensive Treatment Program Atomoxetine capsules are indicated as an integral part of a total treatment program for ADHD that may include other measures (psychological, educational, social) for patients with this syndrome. When remedial measures alone are insufficient, the decision to prescribe drug treatment medication will depend upon the physician's assessment of the chronicity and severity of the patient's symptoms. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Atomoxetine capsules are a selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor indicated for the treatment of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). (1.1) 1.1 Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) Atomoxetine capsules are indicated for the treatment of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). The efficacy of atomoxetine capsules was established in seven clinical trials in outpatients with ADHD: four 6 to 9-week trials in pediatric patients (ages 6 to 18), two 10-week trial in adults, and one maintenance trial in pediatrics (ages 6 to 15) [see Clinical Studies (14) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Atomoxetine is a selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor indicated for the treatment of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). 1.3 Need for Comprehensive Treatment Program Atomoxetine is indicated as an integral part of a total treatment program for ADHD that may include other measures (psychological, educational, social) for patients with this syndrome. The efficacy of atomoxetine capsules was established in seven clinical trials in outpatients with ADHD: four 6 to 9-week trials in pediatric patients (ages 6 to 18), two 10-week trial in adults, and one maintenance trial in pediatrics (ages 6 to 15) [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Atomoxetine is selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor indicated for the treatment of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). (1.1) 1.1 Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) Atomoxetine is indicated for the treatment of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). The efficacy of atomoxetine is established in seven clinical trials in outpatients with ADHD: four 6 to 9-week trials in pediatric patients (ages 6 to 18), two 10-week trial in adults, and one maintenance trial in pediatrics (ages 6 to 15) [see Clinical Studies (14)]. For the Hyperactive-Impulsive Type, at least 6 of the following symptoms must have persisted for at least 6 months: fidgeting/squirming, leaving seat, inappropriate running/climbing, difficulty with quiet activities, "on the go," excessive talking, blurting answers, can't wait turn, intrusive.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Initial, Target and Maximum Daily Dose ( 2.1 ) (Acute and Maintenance/Extended Treatment) Body Weight Initial Daily Dose Target Total Daily Dose Maximum Total Daily Dose Children and adolescents up to 70 kg 0.5 mg/kg 1.2 mg/kg 1.4 mg/kg Children and adolescents over 70 kg and adults 40 mg 80 mg 100 mg Dosing adjustment — Hepatic Impairment, Strong CYP2D6 Inhibitor, and in patients known to be CYP2D6 poor metabolizers (PMs). ( 2.4 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Acute Treatment Dosing of children and adolescents up to 70 kg body weight - Atomoxetine capsules should be initiated at a total daily dose of approximately 0.5 mg/kg and increased after a minimum of 3 days to a target total daily dose of approximately 1.2 mg/kg administered either as a single daily dose in the morning or as evenly divided doses in the morning and late afternoon/early evening. No additional benefit has been demonstrated for doses higher than 1.2 mg/kg/day [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. The total daily dose in children and adolescents should not exceed 1.4 mg/kg or 100 mg, whichever is less. Dosing of children and adolescents over 70 kg body weight and adults - Atomoxetine capsules should be initiated at a total daily dose of 40 mg and increased after a minimum of 3 days to a target total daily dose of approximately 80 mg administered either as a single daily dose in the morning or as evenly divided doses in the morning and late afternoon/early evening. After 2 to 4 additional weeks, the dose may be increased to a maximum of 100 mg in patients who have not achieved an optimal response. There are no data that support increased effectiveness at higher doses [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. The maximum recommended total daily dose in children and adolescents over 70 kg and adults is 100 mg. 2.2 Maintenance/Extended Treatment It is generally agreed that pharmacological treatment of ADHD may be needed for extended periods. The benefit of maintaining pediatric patients (ages 6 to 15 years) with ADHD on atomoxetine capsules after achieving a response in a dose range of 1.2 to 1.8 mg/kg/day was demonstrated in a controlled trial. Patients assigned to atomoxetine capsules in the maintenance phase were generally continued on the same dose used to achieve a response in the open label phase. The physician who elects to use atomoxetine capsules for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. 2.3 General Dosing Information Atomoxetine capsules may be taken with or without food. Atomoxetine capsules can be discontinued without being tapered. Atomoxetine capsules are not intended to be opened, they should be taken whole [see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )]. The safety of single doses over 120 mg and total daily doses above 150 mg have not been systematically evaluated. 2.4 Dosing in Specific Populations Dosing adjustment for hepatically impaired patients — For those ADHD patients who have hepatic insufficiency (HI), dosage adjustment is recommended as follows: For patients with moderate HI (Child-Pugh Class B), initial and target doses should be reduced to 50% of the normal dose (for patients without HI). For patients with severe HI (Child-Pugh Class C), initial dose and target doses should be reduced to 25% of normal [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. Dosing adjustment for use with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor or in patients who are known to be CYP2D6 PMs — In children and adolescents up to 70 kg body weight administered strong CYP2D6 inhibitors, e.g., paroxetine, fluoxetine, and quinidine, or in patients who are known to be CYP2D6 PMs, atomoxetine capsule should be initiated at 0.5 mg/kg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 1.2 mg/kg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. In children and adolescents over 70 kg body weight and adults administered strong CYP2D6 inhibitors, e.g., paroxetine, fluoxetine, and quinidine, atomoxetine capsule should be initiated at 40 mg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 80 mg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. ( 2.5 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Acute Treatment Dosing of children and adolescents up to 70 kg body weight — Atomoxetine capsules should be initiated at a total daily dose of approximately 0.5 mg/kg and increased after a minimum of 3 days to a target total daily dose of approximately 1.2 mg/kg administered either as a single daily dose in the morning or as evenly divided doses in the morning and late afternoon/early evening. No additional benefit has been demonstrated for doses higher than 1.2 mg/kg/day [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . Dosing of children and adolescents over 70 kg body weight and adults — Atomoxetine capsules should be initiated at a total daily dose of 40 mg and increased after a minimum of 3 days to a target total daily dose of approximately 80 mg administered either as a single daily dose in the morning or as evenly divided doses in the morning and late afternoon/early evening. There are no data that support increased effectiveness at higher doses [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . The physician who elects to use atomoxetine capsules for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Atomoxetine capsules are not intended to be opened, they should be taken whole [see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )] . 2.4 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Atomoxetine Capsules Prior to initiating treatment with atomoxetine capsules, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] . 2.5 Dosing in Specific Populations Dosing adjustment for hepatically impaired patients — For those ADHD patients who have hepatic insufficiency (HI), dosage adjustment is recommended as follows: For patients with moderate HI (Child-Pugh Class B), initial and target doses should be reduced to 50% of the normal dose (for patients without HI). For patients with severe HI (Child-Pugh Class C), initial dose and target doses should be reduced to 25% of normal [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . Dosing adjustment for use with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor or in patients who are known to be CYP2D6 PMs — In children and adolescents up to 70 kg body weight administered strong CYP2D6 inhibitors, e.g., paroxetine, fluoxetine, and quinidine, or in patients who are known to be CYP2D6 PMs, atomoxetine capsules should be initiated at 0.5 mg/kg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 1.2 mg/kg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. In children and adolescents over 70 kg body weight and adults administered strong CYP2D6 inhibitors, e.g., paroxetine, fluoxetine, and quinidine, atomoxetine capsules should be initiated at 40 mg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 80 mg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Initial, Target and Maximum Daily Dose (2.1) (Acute and Maintenance/Extended Treatment) Body Weight Initial Daily Dose Target Total Daily Dose Maximum Total Daily Dose Children and adolescents up to 70 kg 0.5 mg/kg 1.2 mg/kg 1.4 mg/kg Children and adolescents over 70 kg and adults 40 mg 80 mg 100 mg Dosing adjustment – Hepatic Impairment, Strong CYP2D6 Inhibitor, and in patients known to be CYP2D6 poor metabolizers (PMs). (2.5 , 12.3) 2.1 Acute Treatment Dosing of children and adolescents up to 70 kg body weight – Atomoxetine capsules should be initiated at a total daily dose of approximately 0.5 mg/kg and increased after a minimum of 3 days to a target total daily dose of approximately 1.2 mg/kg administered either as a single daily dose in the morning or as evenly divided doses in the morning and late afternoon/early evening. No additional benefit has been demonstrated for doses higher than 1.2 mg/kg/day [see Clinical Studies (14) ]. Dosing of children and adolescents over 70 kg body weight and adults – Atomoxetine capsules should be initiated at a total daily dose of 40 mg and increased after a minimum of 3 days to a target total daily dose of approximately 80 mg administered either as a single daily dose in the morning or as evenly divided doses in the morning and late afternoon/early evening. There are no data that support increased effectiveness at higher doses [see Clinical Studies (14) ]. The physician who elects to use atomoxetine capsules for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Atomoxetine capsules are not intended to be opened, they should be taken whole [see Patient Counseling Information (17) ]. 2.4 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Atomoxetine Capsules Prior to initiating treatment with atomoxetine capsules, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. 2.5 Dosing in Specific Populations Dosing adjustment for hepatically impaired patients – For those ADHD patients who have hepatic insufficiency (HI), dosage adjustment is recommended as follows: For patients with moderate HI (Child-Pugh Class B), initial and target doses should be reduced to 50% of the normal dose (for patients without HI). For patients with severe HI (Child-Pugh Class C), initial dose and target doses should be reduced to 25% of normal [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. Dosing adjustment for use with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor or in patients who are known to be CYP2D6 PMs – In children and adolescents up to 70 kg body weight administered strong CYP2D6 inhibitors, e.g., paroxetine, fluoxetine, and quinidine, or in patients who are known to be CYP2D6 PMs, atomoxetine capsules should be initiated at 0.5 mg/kg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 1.2 mg/kg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Initial, Target and Maximum Daily Dose (2.1) (Acute and Maintenance/Extended Treatment) Body Weight Initial Daily Dose Target Total Daily Dose Maximum Total Daily Dose Children and adolescents up to 70 kg 0.5 mg/kg 1.2 mg/kg 1.4 mg/kg Children and adolescents over 70 kg and adults 40 mg 80 mg 100 mg Dosing adjustment — Hepatic Impairment, Strong CYP2D6 Inhibitor, and in patients known to be CYP2D6 poor metabolizers (PMs). ( 2.5 , 12.3) 2.1 Acute Treatment Dosing of children and adolescents up to 70 kg body weight — Atomoxetine should be initiated at a total daily dose of approximately 0.5 mg/kg and increased after a minimum of 3 days to a target total daily dose of approximately 1.2 mg/kg administered either as a single daily dose in the morning or as evenly divided doses in the morning and late afternoon/early evening. Dosing of children and adolescents over 70 kg body weight and adults — Atomoxetine should be initiated at a total daily dose of 40 mg and increased after a minimum of 3 days to a target total daily dose of approximately 80 mg administered either as a single daily dose in the morning or as evenly divided doses in the morning and late afternoon/early evening. The benefit of maintaining pediatric patients (ages 6 to 15 years) with ADHD on atomoxetine after achieving a response in a dose range of 1.2 to 1.8 mg/kg/day was demonstrated in a controlled trial. Patients assigned to atomoxetine in the maintenance phase were generally continued on the same dose used to achieve a response in the open label phase. The physician who elects to use atomoxetine for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Dosing adjustment for use with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor or in patients who are known to be CYP2D6 PMs — In children and adolescents up to 70 kg body weight administered strong CYP2D6 inhibitors, e.g., paroxetine, fluoxetine, and quinidine, or in patients who are known to be CYP2D6 PMs, atomoxetine should be initiated at 0.5 mg/kg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 1.2 mg/kg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. In children and adolescents over 70 kg body weight and adults administered strong CYP2D6 inhibitors, e.g., paroxetine, fluoxetine, and quinidine, atomoxetine should be initiated at 40 mg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 80 mg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated. ( 2.5 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Acute Treatment Dosing of children and adolescents up to 70 kg body weight - Atomoxetine capsules should be initiated at a total daily dose of approximately 0.5 mg/kg and increased after a minimum of 3 days to a target total daily dose of approximately 1.2 mg/kg administered either as a single daily dose in the morning or as evenly divided doses in the morning and late afternoon/early evening. ( 2.5 , 12.3) 2.1 Acute Treatment Dosing of children and adolescents up to 70 kg body weight — Atomoxetine capsules should be initiated at a total daily dose of approximately 0.5 mg/kg and increased after a minimum of 3 days to a target total daily dose of approximately 1.2 mg/kg administered either as a single daily dose in the morning or as evenly divided doses in the morning and late afternoon/early evening. No additional benefit has been demonstrated for doses higher than 1.2 mg/kg/day [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . There are no data that support increased effectiveness at higher doses [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . The physician who elects to use atomoxetine capsules for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Atomoxetine capsules are not intended to be opened, they should be taken whole [see Patient Counseling Information (17) ] . For patients with severe HI (Child-Pugh Class C), initial dose and target doses should be reduced to 25% of normal [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . (2.5, 12.3) 2.1 Acute Treatment Dosing of Children and Adolescents up to 70 kg Body Weight - Atomoxetine should be initiated at a total daily dose of approximately 0.5 mg/kg and increased after a minimum of 3 days to a target total daily dose of approximately 1.2 mg/kg administered either as a single daily dose in the morning or as evenly divided doses in the morning and late afternoon/early evening. No additional benefit has been demonstrated for doses higher than 1.2 mg/kg/day [see Clinical Studies (14)] . Dosing of Children and Adolescents Over 70 kg Body Weight and Adults - Atomoxetine should be initiated at a total daily dose of 40 mg and increased after a minimum of 3 days to a target total daily dose of approximately 80 mg administered either as a single daily dose in the morning or as evenly divided doses in the morning and late afternoon/early evening. There are no data that support increased effectiveness at higher doses [see Clinical Studies (14)] . The benefit of maintaining pediatric patients (ages 6-15 years) with ADHD on atomoxetine after achieving a response in a dose range of 1.2 to 1.8 mg/kg/day was demonstrated in a controlled trial. The physician who elects to use atomoxetine for extended periods should periodically reevaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] . 2.3 General Dosing Information Atomoxetine may be taken with or without food. Atomoxetine can be discontinued without being tapered. Atomoxetine capsules are not intended to be opened, they should be taken whole [see Patient Counseling Information (17)] . 2.4 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Atomoxetine Prior to initiating treatment with atomoxetine, screen patients for a personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. 2.5 Dosing in Specific Populations Dosing Adjustment for Hepatically Impaired Patients - For those ADHD patients who have hepatic insufficiency (HI), dosage adjustment is recommended as follows: For patients with moderate HI (Child-Pugh Class B), initial and target doses should be reduced to 50% of the normal dose (for patients without HI). For patients with severe HI (Child-Pugh Class C), initial dose and target doses should be reduced to 25% of normal [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)] . Dosing Adjustment for Use with a Strong CYP2D6 Inhibitor or in Patients who are Known to be CYP2D6 PMs - In children and adolescents up to 70 kg body weight administered strong CYP2D6 inhibitors, e.g., paroxetine, fluoxetine, and quinidine, or in patients who are known to be CYP2D6 PMs, atomoxetine should be initiated at 0.5 mg/kg/day and only increased to the usual target dose of 1.2 mg/kg/day if symptoms fail to improve after 4 weeks and the initial dose is well tolerated.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Hypersensitivity to atomoxetine or other constituents of product. ( 4.1 ) • Atomoxetine capsules use within 2 weeks after discontinuing MAOI or other drugs that affect brain monoamine concentrations. ( 4.2 , 7.1 ) • Narrow Angle Glaucoma. ( 4.3 ) • Pheochromocytoma or history of pheochromocytoma.( 4.4 ) • Severe Cardiovascular Disorders that might deteriorate with clinically important increases in HR and BP. ( 4.5 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Atomoxetine capsules are contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to atomoxetine or other constituents of the product [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )]. 4.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) Atomoxetine capsules should not be taken with an MAOI, or within 2 weeks after discontinuing an MAOI. Treatment with an MAOI should not be initiated within 2 weeks after discontinuing atomoxetine capsules. With other drugs that affect brain monoamine concentrations, there have been reports of serious, sometimes fatal reactions (including hyperthermia, rigidity, myoclonus, autonomic instability with possible rapid fluctuations of vital signs, and mental status changes that include extreme agitation progressing to delirium and coma) when taken in combination with an MAOI. Some cases presented with features resembling neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Such reactions may occur when these drugs are given concurrently or in close proximity [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. 4.3 Narrow Angle Glaucoma In clinical trials, atomoxetine capsules use was associated with an increased risk of mydriasis and therefore its use is not recommended in patients with narrow angle glaucoma. 4.4 Pheochromocytoma Serious reactions, including elevated blood pressure and tachyarrhythmia, have been reported in patients with pheochromocytoma or a history of pheochromocytoma who received atomoxetine capsules. Therefore, atomoxetine capsules should not be taken by patients with pheochromocytoma or a history of pheochromocytoma. 4.5 Severe Cardiovascular Disorders Atomoxetine capsules should not be used in patients with severe cardiac or vascular disorders whose condition would be expected to deteriorate if they experience increases in blood pressure or heart rate that could be clinically important (for example, 15 to 20 mm Hg in blood pressure or 20 beats per minute in heart rate). [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. ( 4.1 ) • Atomoxetine use within 2 weeks after discontinuing MAOI or other drugs that affect brain monoamine concentrations. ( 4.3 ) • Pheochromocytoma or history of pheochromocytoma. ( 4.4 ) • Severe Cardiovascular Disorders that might deteriorate with clinically important increases in HR and BP. ( 4.5 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Atomoxetine capsules are contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to atomoxetine or other constituents of the product [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] . 4.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOI) Atomoxetine should not be taken with an MAOI, or within 2 weeks after discontinuing an MAOI. Treatment with an MAOI should not be initiated within 2 weeks after discontinuing atomoxetine. Such reactions may occur when these drugs are given concurrently or in close proximity [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . 4.3 Narrow Angle Glaucoma In clinical trials, Atomoxetine use was associated with an increased risk of mydriasis and therefore its use is not recommended in patients with narrow angle glaucoma. 4.4 Pheochromocytoma Serious reactions, including elevated blood pressure and tachyarrhythmia, have been reported in patients with pheochromocytoma or a history of pheochromocytoma who received atomoxetine. Therefore, Atomoxetine should not be taken by patients with pheochromocytoma or a history of pheochromocytoma. 4.5 Severe Cardiovascular Disorders Atomoxetine should not be used in patients with severe cardiac or vascular disorders whose condition would be expected to deteriorate if they experience increases in blood pressure or heart rate that could be clinically important (for example, 15 to 20 mm Hg in blood pressure or 20 beats per minute in heart rate) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to atomoxetine or other constituents of product. (4.1) Atomoxetine capsules use within 2 weeks after discontinuing MAOI or other drugs that affect brain monoamine concentrations. (4.2 , 7.1) Narrow Angle Glaucoma. (4.3) Pheochromocytoma or history of pheochromocytoma. (4.4) Severe Cardiovascular Disorders that might deteriorate with clinically important increases in HR and BP. (4.5) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Atomoxetine capsules are contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to atomoxetine or other constituents of the product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Such reactions may occur when these drugs are given concurrently or in close proximity [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. ( 4.1 ) Atomoxetine use within 2 weeks after discontinuing MAOI or other drugs that affect brain monoamine concentrations. ( 4.2 , 7.1 ) Narrow Angle Glaucoma. ( 4.3 ) Pheochromocytoma or history of pheochromocytoma. ( 4.4 ) Severe Cardiovascular Disorders that might deteriorate with clinically important increases in HR and BP. 4.5 Severe Cardiovascular Disorders Atomoxetine should not be used in patients with severe cardiac or vascular disorders whose condition would be expected to deteriorate if they experience increases in blood pressure or heart rate that could be clinically important (for example, 15 to 20 mm Hg in blood pressure or 20 beats per minute in heart rate) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. 4.5 Severe Cardiovascular Disorders Atomoxetine capsules should not be used in patients with severe cardiac or vascular disorders whose condition would be expected to deteriorate if they experience increases in blood pressure or heart rate that could be clinically important (for example, 15 to 20 mm Hg in blood pressure or 20 beats per minute in heart rate) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. ( 4.5 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Atomoxetine capsules are contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to atomoxetine or other constituents of the product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . Such reactions may occur when these drugs are given concurrently or in close proximity [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . 4.5 Severe Cardiovascular Disorders Atomoxetine capsules should not be used in patients with severe cardiac or vascular disorders whose condition would be expected to deteriorate if they experience increases in blood pressure or heart rate that could be clinically important (for example, 15 to 20 mm Hg in blood pressure or 20 beats per minute in heart rate) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . (4.1) Atomoxetine use within 2 weeks after discontinuing MAOI or other drugs that affect brain monoamine concentrations. (4.2, 7.1) Narrow Angle Glaucoma. (4.5) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Atomoxetine is contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to atomoxetine or other constituents of the product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] . Such reactions may occur when these drugs are given concurrently or in close proximity [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] . 4.5 Severe Cardiovascular Disorders Atomoxetine capsules should not be used in patients with severe cardiac or vascular disorders whose condition would be expected to deteriorate if they experience increases in blood pressure or heart rate that could be clinically important (for example, 15 to 20 mm Hg in blood pressure or 20 beats per minute in heart rate) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] .
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors. ( 4.2 , 7.1 ) • CYP2D6 Inhibitors - Concomitant use may increase atomoxetine steady-state plasma concentrations in EMs. ( 7.2 ) • Antihypertensive Drugs and Pressor Agents – Possible effects on blood pressure. ( 7.3 ) • Albuterol (or other beta 2 agonists) - Action of albuterol on cardiovascular system can be potentiated. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors With other drugs that affect brain monoamine concentrations, there have been reports of serious, sometimes fatal reactions (including hyperthermia, rigidity, myoclonus, autonomic instability with possible rapid fluctuations of vital signs, and mental status changes that include extreme agitation progressing to delirium and coma) when taken in combination with an MAOI. Some cases presented with features resembling neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Such reactions may occur when these drugs are given concurrently or in close proximity [see Contraindications ( 4.2 )]. 7.2 Effect of CYP2D6 Inhibitors on Atomoxetine In extensive metabolizers (EMs), inhibitors of CYP2D6 (e.g., paroxetine, fluoxetine, and quinidine) increase atomoxetine steady-state plasma concentrations to exposures similar to those observed in poor metabolizers (PMs). In EM individuals treated with paroxetine or fluoxetine, the AUC of atomoxetine is approximately 6- to 8-fold and C ss, max is about 3- to 4-fold greater than atomoxetine alone. In vitro studies suggest that coadministration of cytochrome P450 inhibitors to PMs will not increase the plasma concentrations of atomoxetine. 7.3 Antihypertensive Drugs and Pressor Agents Because of possible effects on blood pressure, atomoxetine should be used cautiously with antihypertensive drugs and pressor agents (e.g., dopamine, dobutamine) or other drugs that increase blood pressure. 7.4 Albuterol Atomoxetine should be administered with caution to patients being treated with systemically-administered (oral or intravenous) albuterol (or other beta 2 agonists) because the action of albuterol on the cardiovascular system can be potentiated resulting in increases in heart rate and blood pressure. Albuterol (600 mcg iv over 2 hours) induced increases in heart rate and blood pressure. These effects were potentiated by atomoxetine (60 mg BID for 5 days) and were most marked after the initial coadministration of albuterol and atomoxetine. However, these effects on heart rate and blood pressure were not seen in another study after the coadministration with inhaled dose of albuterol (200 to 800 mcg) and atomoxetine (80 mg QD for 5 days) in 21 healthy Asian subjects who were excluded for poor metabolizer status. 7.5 Effect of Atomoxetine on P450 Enzymes Atomoxetine did not cause clinically important inhibition or induction of cytochrome P450 enzymes, including CYP1A2, CYP3A, CYP2D6, and CYP2C9. CYP3A Substrate (e.g., Midazolam) — Coadministration of atomoxetine (60 mg BID for 12 days) with midazolam, a model compound for CYP3A4 metabolized drugs (single dose of 5 mg), resulted in 15% increase in AUC of midazolam. No dose adjustment is recommended for drugs metabolized by CYP3A. CYP2D6 Substrate (e.g., Desipramine) — Coadministration of atomoxetine (40 or 60 mg BID for 13 days) with desipramine, a model compound for CYP2D6 metabolized drugs (single dose of 50 mg), did not alter the pharmacokinetics of desipramine. No dose adjustment is recommended for drugs metabolized by CYP2D6. 7.6 Alcohol Consumption of ethanol with atomoxetine did not change the intoxicating effects of ethanol. 7.7 Methylphenidate Coadministration of methylphenidate with atomoxetine did not increase cardiovascular effects beyond those seen with methylphenidate alone. 7.8 Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Protein In vitro drug-displacement studies were conducted with atomoxetine and other highly-bound drugs at therapeutic concentrations. Atomoxetine did not affect the binding of warfarin, acetylsalicylic acid, phenytoin, or diazepam to human albumin. Similarly, these compounds did not affect the binding of atomoxetine to human albumin. 7.9 Drugs that Affect Gastric pH Drugs that elevate gastric pH (magnesium hydroxide/aluminum hydroxide, omeprazole) had no effect on atomoxetine bioavailability. ( 7.2 ) • Antihypertensive Drugs and Pressor Agents - Possible effects on blood pressure. Such reactions may occur when these drugs are given concurrently or in close proximity [see Contraindications ( 4.2 )] . In EM individuals treated with paroxetine or fluoxetine, the AUC of atomoxetine is approximately 6- to 8-fold and C ss , max is about 3- to 4-fold greater than atomoxetine alone. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors. (4.2 , 7.1) CYP2D6 Inhibitors – Concomitant use may increase atomoxetine steady-state plasma concentrations in EMs. (7.2) Antihypertensive Drugs and Pressor Agents – Possible effects on blood pressure. (7.3) Albuterol (or other beta 2 agonists) – Action of albuterol on cardiovascular system can be potentiated. (7.4) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors With other drugs that affect brain monoamine concentrations, there have been reports of serious, sometimes fatal reactions (including hyperthermia, rigidity, myoclonus, autonomic instability with possible rapid fluctuations of vital signs, and mental status changes that include extreme agitation progressing to delirium and coma) when taken in combination with an MAOI. Such reactions may occur when these drugs are given concurrently or in close proximity [see Contraindications (4.2) ]. In EM individuals treated with paroxetine or fluoxetine, the AUC of atomoxetine is approximately 6- to 8-fold and C ss,max is about 3- to 4-fold greater than atomoxetine alone. CYP3A Substrate (e.g., Midazolam) – Coadministration of atomoxetine (60 mg BID for 12 days) with midazolam, a model compound for CYP3A4 metabolized drugs (single dose of 5 mg), resulted in 15% increase in AUC of midazolam. CYP2D6 Substrate (e.g., Desipramine) – Coadministration of atomoxetine (40 or 60 mg BID for 13 days) with desipramine, a model compound for CYP2D6 metabolized drugs (single dose of 50 mg), did not alter the pharmacokinetics of desipramine. (4.2, 7.1) CYP2D6 Inhibitors – Concomitant use may increase atomoxetine steady–state plasma concentrations in EMs. (4.2, 7.1) CYP2D6 Inhibitors – Concomitant use may increase atomoxetine steady-state plasma concentrations in EMs. Such reactions may occur when these drugs are given concurrently or in close proximity [see Contraindications (4.2)]. However, these effects on heart rate and blood pressure were not seen in another study after the coadministration with inhaled dose of albuterol (200-800 mcg) and atomoxetine (80 mg QD for 5 days) in 21 healthy Asian subjects who were excluded for poor metabolizer status. CYP3A Substrate (e.g., Midazolam) - Coadministration of atomoxetine (60 mg BID for 12 days) with midazolam, a model compound for CYP3A4 metabolized drugs (single dose of 5 mg), resulted in 15% increase in AUC of midazolam. CYP2D6 Substrate (e.g., Desipramine) - Coadministration of atomoxetine (40 or 60 mg BID for 13 days) with desipramine, a model compound for CYP2D6 metabolized drugs (single dose of 50 mg), did not alter the pharmacokinetics of desipramine.

=== CLARITHROMYCIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clarithromycin is a macrolide antimicrobial indicated for mild to moderate infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria in the following: Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis in Adults ( 1.1 ) Acute Maxillary Sinusitis ( 1.2 ) Community-Acquired Pneumonia ( 1.3 ) Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis ( 1.4 ) Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections ( 1.5 ) Acute Otitis Media in Pediatric Patients ( 1.6 ) Treatment and Prophylaxis of Disseminated Mycobacterial Infections ( 1.7 ) Helicobacter pylori Infection and Duodenal Ulcer Disease in Adults ( 1.8 ) Limitations of Use To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of clarithromycin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, clarithromycin tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.9 ) 1.1 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis Clarithromycin tablets are indicated in adults for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Haemophilus influenzae , Haemophilus parainfluenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis , or Streptococcus pneumoniae [see Indications and Usage ( 1.9 )] . 1.2 Acute Maxillary Sinusitis Clarithromycin tablets are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis , or Streptococcus pneumoniae [see Indications and Usage ( 1.9 )] . 1.3 Community-Acquired Pneumonia Clarithromycin tablets are indicated [see Indications and Usage ( 1.9 )] for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to: Haemophilus influenzae (in adults) Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Chlamydophila pneumoniae (in adults and pediatric patients) 1.4 Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis Clarithromycin tablets are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Streptococcus pyogenes as an alternative in individuals who cannot use first line therapy. 1.5 Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections Clarithromycin tablets are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Staphylococcus aureus , or S treptococcus pyogenes . 1.6 Acute Otitis Media Clarithromycin tablets are indicated in pediatric patients for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis , or Streptococcus pneumoniae [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . 1.7 Treatment and Prophylaxis of Disseminated Mycobacterial Infections Clarithromycin tablets are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Mycobacterium avium or Myc obacterium intracellulare in patients with advanced HIV infection [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . 1.8 Helicobacter pylori Infection and Duodenal Ulcer Disease Clarithromycin tablets are given in combination with other drugs in adults as described below to eradicate H. pylori . The eradication of H. pylori has been demonstrated to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . Clarithromycin tablets in combination with amoxicillin and PREVACID (lansoprazole) or PRILOSEC (omeprazole) delayed-release capsules, as triple therapy, are indicated for the treatment of patients with H. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease (active or five-year history of duodenal ulcer) to eradicate H. Clarithromycin tablets in combination with PRILOSEC (omeprazole) capsules are indicated for the treatment of patients with an active duodenal ulcer associated with H. pylori infection. Regimens which contain clarithromycin tablets as the single antibacterial agent are more likely to be associated with the development of clarithromycin resistance among patients who fail therapy. Clarithromycin-containing regimens should not be used in patients with known or suspected clarithromycin resistant isolates because the efficacy of treatment is reduced in this setting. 1.9 Limitations of Use There is resistance to macrolides in certain bacterial infections caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae and Staphylococcus aureus . Susceptibility testing should be performed when clinically indicated. 1.10 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of clarithromycin and other antibacterial drugs, clarithromycin tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clarithromycin tablets are a macrolide antimicrobial indicated for mild to moderate infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria in the following: Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis in Adults (1.1) Acute Maxillary Sinusitis (1.2) Community-Acquired Pneumonia (1.3) Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis (1.4) Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections (1.5) Acute Otitis Media in Pediatric Patients (1.6) Treatment and Prophylaxis of Disseminated Mycobacterial Infections (1.7) Helicobacter pylori Infection and Duodenal Ulcer Disease in Adults (1.8) Limitations of Use To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of clarithromycin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, clarithromycin tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.9 ) 1.1 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis Clarithromycin tablets are indicated in adults for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Haemophilus influenzae , Haemophilus parainfluenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis , or Streptococcus pneumoniae [see Indications and Usage (1.9) ]. 1.2 Acute Maxillary Sinusitis Clarithromycin tablets are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis , or Streptococcus pneumoniae [see Indications and Usage (1.9) ]. 1.3 Community-Acquired Pneumonia Clarithromycin tablets are indicated [see Indications and Usage (1.9) ] for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to: Haemophilus influenzae (in adults) Mycoplasma pneumoniae , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Chlamydophila pneumoniae (clarithromycin tablets [in adults and pediatric patients]) 1.4 Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis Clarithromycin tablets are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Streptococcus pyogenes as an alternative in individuals who cannot use first line therapy. 1.5 Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections Clarithromycin tablets are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Staphylococcus aureus , or Streptococcus pyogenes . 1.6 Acute Otitis Media Clarithromycin tablets are indicated in pediatric patients for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis , or Streptococcus pneumoniae [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . 1.7 Treatment and Prophylaxis of Disseminated Mycobacterial Infections Clarithromycin tablets are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Mycobacterium avium or Mycobacterium intracellulare in patients with advanced HIV infection [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . pylori has been demonstrated to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . 1.10 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of clarithromycin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, clarithromycin tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clarithromycin tablets are a macrolide antimicrobial indicated for mild to moderate infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria in the following: Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis in Adults ( 1.1 ) Acute Maxillary Sinusitis ( 1.2 ) Community-Acquired Pneumonia ( 1.3 ) Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis ( 1.4 ) Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections ( 1.5 ) Acute Otitis Media in Pediatric Patients ( 1.6 ) Treatment and Prophylaxis of Disseminated Mycobacterial Infections ( 1.7 ) Helicobacter pylori Infection and Duodenal Ulcer Disease in Adults ( 1.8 ) To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of clarithromycin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, clarithromycin tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.10 ) 1.1 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis Clarithromycin tablets are indicated in adults for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Haemophilus influenzae , Haemophilus parainfluenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis , or Streptococcus pneumoniae. 1.2 Acute Maxillary Sinusitis Clarithromycin tablets are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis , or Streptococcus pneumoniae. 1.3 Community-Acquired Pneumonia Clarithromycin tablets are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to: Haemophilus influenzae (in adults) Mycoplasma pneumoniae , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Chlamydophila pneumoniae (clarithromycin tablets [in adults and pediatric patients]) 1.4 Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis Clarithromycin tablets are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Streptococcus pyogenes as an alternative in individuals who cannot use first line therapy. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK, is a co-packaged product containing vonoprazan, a potassium-competitive acid blocker (PCAB), amoxicillin, a penicillin class antibacterial, and clarithromycin, a macrolide antimicrobial, indicated for the treatment of Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection in adults. ( 1.1 ) VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK, is a co-packaged product containing vonoprazan, a PCAB, and amoxicillin, a penicillin class antibacterial, indicated for the treatment of H. pylori infection in adults. ( 1.1 ) To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK, VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK and other antibacterial drugs, VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK and VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Helicobacter pylori Infection VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK or VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK are indicated for the treatment of Helicobacter pylori ( H. pylori ) infection in adults [see Clinical Studies (14) ]. 1.2 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK, VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK and other antibacterial drugs, VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK and VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. INDICATIONS AND USAGE 1.1 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis Clarithromycin tablets are indicated in adults for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis, or Streptococcus pneumoniae [see Indications and Usage (1.9)]. 1.2 Acute Maxillary Sinusitis Clarithromycin tablets are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis, or Streptococcus pneumoniae [see Indications and Usage (1.9)]. 1.3 Community-Acquired Pneumonia Clarithromycin tablets are indicated [see Indications and Usage (1.9)] for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to: • Haemophilus influenzae (in adults) • Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Chlamydophila pneumoniae (clarithromycin tablets [in adults and pediatric patients]) 1.4 Pharyngitis / Tonsillitis Clarithromycin tablets are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Streptococcus pyogenes as an alternative in individuals who cannot use first line therapy. 1.5 Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections Clarithromycin tablets are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Staphylococcus aureus, or Streptococcus pyogenes. 1.6 Acute Otitis Media Clarithromycin tablets are indicated in pediatric patients for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis, or Streptococcus pneumoniae [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. 1.7 Treatement of Prophylaxis of Disseminated Mycobacterial Infections Clarithromycin tablets are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Mycobacterium avium or Mycobacterium intracellulare in patients with advanced HIV infection [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. pylori. pylori has been demonstrated to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence [see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. • Clarithromycin tablets in combination with amoxicillin and PREVACID (lansoprazole) or PRILOSEC (omeprazole) Delayed-Release Capsules, as triple therapy, are indicated for the treatment of patients with H. • Clarithromycin tablets in combination with PRILOSEC (omeprazole) capsules are indicated for the treatment of patients with an active duodenal ulcer associated with H. Regimens which contain clarithromycin tablets as the single antibacterial agent are more likely to be associated with the development of clarithromycin resistance among patients who fail therapy Clarithromycin containing regimens should not be used in patients with known or suspected clarithromycin resistant isolates because the efficacy of treatment is reduced in this setting. 1.9 Limitations of Use There is resistance to macrolides in certain bacterial infections caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae and Staphylococcus aureus. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clarithromycin is a macrolide antimicrobial indicated for mild to moderate infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria in the following: Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis in Adults (1.1) Acute Maxillary Sinusitis (1.2) Community-Acquired Pneumonia (1.3) Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis (1.4) Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections (1.5) Acute Otitis Media in Pediatric Patients (1.6) Treatment and Prophylaxis of Disseminated Mycobacterial Infections (1.7) Helicobacter pylori Infection and Duodenal Ulcer Disease in Adults (1.8) Limitations of Use To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of clarithromycin and other antibacterial drugs, clarithromycin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. (1.9) 1.1 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis Clarithromycin tablets, USP are indicated in adults for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Haemophilus influenzae , Haemophilus parainfluenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis , or Streptococcus pneumoniae [see Indications and Usage (1.9) ] . 1.2 Acute Maxillary Sinusitis Clarithromycin tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis , or Streptococcus pneumoniae [see Indications and Usage (1.9) ] . 1.3 Community-Acquired Pneumonia Clarithromycin tablets, USP are indicated [see Indications and Usage (1.9) ] for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to: Haemophilus influenzae (in adults) Mycoplasma pneumoniae , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Chlamydophila pneumoniae 1.4 Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis Clarithromycin tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Streptococcus pyogenes as an alternative in individuals who cannot use first line therapy. 1.5 Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections Clarithromycin tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Staphylococcus aureus , or Streptococcus pyogenes . 1.6 Acute Otitis Media Clarithromycin tablets, USP are indicated in pediatric patients for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis , or Streptococcus pneumoniae [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . 1.7 Treatment and Prophylaxis of Disseminated Mycobacterial Infections Clarithromycin tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Mycobacterium avium or Mycobacterium intracellulare in patients with advanced HIV infection [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . 1.8 Helicobacter pylori Infection and Duodenal Ulcer Disease Clarithromycin tablet, USP is given in combination with other drugs in adults as described below to eradicate H. Clarithromycin tablets, USP in combination with amoxicillin and PREVACID (lansoprazole) or PRILOSEC (omeprazole) Delayed-Release Capsules, as triple therapy, are indicated for the treatment of patients with H. Clarithromycin tablets, USP in combination with PRILOSEC (omeprazole) capsules are indicated for the treatment of patients with an active duodenal ulcer associated with H. Regimens which contain clarithromycin tablets, USP as the single antibacterial agent are more likely to be associated with the development of clarithromycin resistance among patients who fail therapy. 1.10 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of clarithromycin and other antibacterial drugs, clarithromycin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. 1.1 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis Clarithromycin tablets, USP are indicated in adults for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Haemophilus influenzae , Haemophilus parainfluenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis , or Streptococcus pneumoniae [see Indications and Usage (1.9) ] . 1.3 Community-Acquired Pneumonia Clarithromycin tablets, USP are indicated [see Indications and Usage (1.9) ] for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to: Haemophilus influenzae (in adults) Mycoplasma pneumoniae , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Chlamydophila pneumoniae 1.4 Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis Clarithromycin tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Streptococcus pyogenes as an alternative in individuals who cannot use first line therapy. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clarithromycin extended-release tablets is a macrolide antimicrobial indicated for mild to moderate infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria in the following: Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis in Adults (1.1) Acute Maxillary Sinusitis (1.2) Community-Acquired Pneumonia (1.3) Limitations of Use Clarithromycin extended-release tablets are indicated only for acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic bronchitis, acute maxillary sinusitis, and community-acquired pneumonia in adults. (1.9) To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of clarithromycin extended-release tablets and other antibacterial drugs, clarithromycin extended-release tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. (1.9) 1.1 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis Clarithromycin extended-release tablets are indicated in adults for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Haemophilus influenzae , Haemophilus parainfluenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis , or Streptococcus pneumoniae [see Indications and Usage (1.9) ] . 1.2 Acute Maxillary Sinusitis Clarithromycin extended-release tablets (in adults) are indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis , or Streptococcus pneumoniae [see Indications and Usage (1.9) ] . 1.3 Community-Acquired Pneumonia Clarithromycin extended-release tablets are indicated [see Indications and Usage (1.9) ] for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to: Haemophilus influenzae (in adults) Haemophilus parainfluenzae (in adults) Moraxella catarrhalis (in adults) Mycoplasma pneumoniae , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Chlamydophila pneumoniae (in adults) 1.9 Limitations of Use Clarithromycin extended-release tablets are indicated only for acute maxillary sinusitis, acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic bronchitis, and community-acquired pneumonia in adults. The efficacy and safety of clarithromycin extended-release tablets in treating other infections for which clarithromycin immediate release tablets and clarithromycin granules are approved have not been established. There is resistance to macrolides in certain bacterial infections caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae and Staphylococcus aureus . 1.10 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of clarithromycin extended-release tablets and other antibacterial drugs, clarithromycin extended-release tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. 1.1 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis Clarithromycin extended-release tablets are indicated in adults for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Haemophilus influenzae , Haemophilus parainfluenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis , or Streptococcus pneumoniae [see Indications and Usage (1.9) ] . 1.3 Community-Acquired Pneumonia Clarithromycin extended-release tablets are indicated [see Indications and Usage (1.9) ] for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to: Haemophilus influenzae (in adults) Haemophilus parainfluenzae (in adults) Moraxella catarrhalis (in adults) Mycoplasma pneumoniae , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Chlamydophila pneumoniae (in adults) 1.9 Limitations of Use Clarithromycin extended-release tablets are indicated only for acute maxillary sinusitis, acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic bronchitis, and community-acquired pneumonia in adults. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clarithromycin is a macrolide antimicrobial indicated for mild to moderate infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria in the following: • Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis in Adults ( 1.1 ) • Acute Maxillary Sinusitis ( 1.2 ) • Community-Acquired Pneumonia ( 1.3 ) • Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis ( 1.4 ) • Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections ( 1.5 ) • Acute Otitis Media in Pediatric Patients ( 1.6 ) • Treatment and Prophylaxis of Disseminated Mycobacterial Infections ( 1.7 ) Limitations of Use: To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of clarithromycin and other antibacterial drugs, clarithromycin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.9 ) 1.1 Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis Clarithromycin is indicated in adults for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Haemophilus influenzae , Haemophilus parainfluenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis , or Streptococcus pneumoniae [ see Indications and Usage ( 1.9 ) ]. 1.2 Acute Maxillary Sinusitis Clarithromycin is indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis , or Streptococcus pneumoniae [ see Indications and Usage (1.9) ]. 1.3 Community-Acquired Pneumonia Clarithromycin is indicated [ see Indications and Usage ( 1.9 ) ] for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to: • Haemophilus influenzae (in adults) • Mycoplasma pneumoniae , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Chlamydophila pneumoniae clarithromycin [in adults and pediatric patients] 1.4 Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis Clarithromycin is indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Streptococcus pyogenes as an alternative in individuals who cannot use first line therapy. 1.5 Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections Clarithromycin is indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Staphylococcus aureus , or Streptococcus pyogenes . 1.6 Acute Otitis Media Clarithromycin is indicated in pediatric patients for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Haemophilus influenzae , Moraxella catarrhalis , or Streptococcus pneumoniae [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ]. 1.7 Treatment and Prophylaxis of Disseminated Mycobacterial Infections Clarithromycin is indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible isolates due to Mycobacterium avium or Mycobacterium intracellulare in patients with advanced HIV infection [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clarithromycin tablets are a macrolide antimicrobial indicated for mild to moderate infections caused by designated, susceptible bacteria in the following: Acute Bacterial Exacerbation of Chronic Bronchitis in Adults ( 1.1 ) Acute Maxillary Sinusitis ( 1.2 ) Community-Acquired Pneumonia ( 1.3 ) Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis ( 1.4 ) Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections ( 1.5 ) Acute Otitis Media in Pediatric Patients ( 1.6 ) Treatment and Prophylaxis of Disseminated Mycobacterial Infections ( 1.7 ) Helicobacter pylori Infection and Duodenal Ulcer Disease in Adults ( 1.8 ) Limitations of Use To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of clarithromycin tablets and other antibacterial drugs, clarithromycin tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults : clarithromycin tablets 250 mg or 500 mg every 12 hours for 7 to 14 days ( 2.2 ) H. pylori eradication (in combination with lansoprazole/amoxicillin, omeprazole/amoxicillin, or omeprazole): clarithromycin tablets 500 mg every 8 or 12 hours for 10 to 14 days. See full prescribing information (FPI) for additional information. ( 2.3 ) Pediatric Patients : clarithromycin 15 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours for 10 days ( 2.4 ) Mycobacterial Infections : clarithromycin tablets 500 mg every 12 hours; clarithromycin tablets 7.5 mg/kg up to 500 mg every 12 hours in pediatric patients ( 2.5 ) Reduce dose in moderate renal impairment with concomitant atazanavir or ritonavir-containing regimens and in severe renal impairment ( 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Clarithromycin tablets may be given with or without food. 2.2 Adult Dosage The recommended dosages of clarithromycin tablets for the treatment of mild to moderate infections in adults are listed in Table 1 . Table 1. Adult Dosage Guidelines Infection Clarithromycin Tablets Dosage (every 12 hours) Duration (days) Acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic bronchitis 250 to 500 mg 7 † -14 Acute maxillary sinusitis 500 mg 14 Community-acquired pneumonia 250 mg 7 ǂ -14 Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis 250 mg 10 Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections 250 mg 7-14 Treatment and prophylaxis of disseminated Mycobacterium avium disease [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )] 500 mg § - H.pylori eradication to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence with amoxicillin and omeprazole or lansoprazole [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] 500 mg 10-14 H.pylori eradication to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence with omeprazole [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] 500 mg every 8 hours 14 * For M. catarrhalis and S. pneumoniae use 250 mg. For H. influenzae and H. parainfluenzae , use 500 mg. † For H parainfluenzae , the duration of therapy is 7 days. ǂ For H. influenzae , the duration of therapy is 7 days. § Clarithromycin therapy should continue if clinical response is observed. Clarithromycin can be discontinued when the patient is considered at low risk of disseminated infection. 2.3 Combination Dosing Regimens for H. pylori Infection Triple therapy: clarithromycin/lansoprazole/amoxicillin The recommended adult dosage is 500 mg clarithromycin tablets, 30 mg lansoprazole, and 1 gram amoxicillin, all given every 12 hours for 10 or 14 days [see Indications and Usage ( 1.8 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . Triple therapy: clarithromycin/omeprazole/amoxicillin The recommended adult dosage is 500 mg clarithromycin tablets, 20 mg omeprazole, and 1 gram amoxicillin; all given every 12 hours for 10 days. In patients with an ulcer present at the time of initiation of therapy, an additional 18 days of omeprazole 20 mg once daily is recommended for ulcer healing and symptom relief [see Indications and Usage ( 1.8 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . Dual therapy: clarithromycin/omeprazole The recommended adult dosage is 500 mg clarithromycin tablets given every 8 hours and 40 mg omeprazole given once every morning for 14 days. An additional 14 days of omeprazole 20 mg once daily is recommended for ulcer healing and symptom relief [see Indications and Usage ( 1.8 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . 2.4 Pediatric Dosage The recommended daily dosage is 15 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours for 10 days (up to the adult dose). Refer to dosage regimens for mycobacterial infections in pediatric patients for additional dosage information [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )] . 2.5 Dosage Regimens for Mycobacterial Infections For the treatment of disseminated infection due to Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC), clarithromycin tablets are recommended as the primary agents. Clarithromycin tablets should be used in combination with other antimycobacterial drugs (e.g. ethambutol) that have shown in vitro activity against MAC or clinical benefit in MAC treatment [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. Adult Patients For treatment and prophylaxis of mycobacterial infections in adults, the recommended dose of clarithromycin tablets is 500 mg every 12 hours. Pediatric Patients For treatment and prophylaxis of mycobacterial infections in pediatric patients, the recommended dose is 7.5 mg/kg every 12 hours up to 500 mg every 12 hours. [See Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Clarithromycin tablets therapy should continue if clinical response is observed. Clarithromycin tablets can be discontinued when the patient is considered at low risk of disseminated infection. 2.6 Dosage Adjustment in Patients with Renal Impairment See Table 2 for dosage adjustment in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment with or without concomitant atazanavir or ritonavir-containing regimens [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. Table 2. Clarithromycin Tablets Dosage Adjustments in Patients with Renal Impairment Recommended Clarithromycin Tablets Dosage Reduction Patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr of <30 mL/min) Reduce the dosage of clarithromycin tablets by 50% Patients with moderate renal impairment (CL cr of 30 to 60 mL/min) taking concomitant atazanavir or ritonavir-containing regimens Reduce the dosage of clarithromycin tablets by 50% Patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr of <30 mL/min) taking concomitant atazanavir or ritonavir-containing regimens Reduce the dosage of clarithromycin tablets by 75% 2.7 Dosage Adjustment Due to Drug Interactions Decrease the dose of clarithromycin tablets by 50 % when co-administered with atazanavir [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . Dosage adjustments for other drugs when co-administered with clarithromycin tablets may be recommended due to drug interactions [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . ( 2.3 ) Pediatric Patients : Clarithromycin tablets 15 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours for 10 days ( 2.4 ) Mycobacterial Infections : Clarithromycin tablets 500 mg every 12 hours; clarithromycin tablets 7.5 mg/kg up to 500 mg every 12 hours in pediatric patients ( 2.5 ) Reduce dose in moderate renal impairment with concomitant atazanavir or ritonavir-containing regimens and in severe renal impairment ( 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Clarithromycin tablets may be given with or without food. 2.2 Adult Dosage The recommended dosages of clarithromycin tablets for the treatment of mild to moderate infections in adults are listed in Table 1. Adult Dosage Guidelines Clarithromycin Tablets Infection Dosage (every 12 hours) Duration (days) Acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic bronchitis 250 to 500 mg a 7 b to 14 Acute maxillary sinusitis 500 mg 14 Community-acquired pneumonia 250 mg 7 d to 14 Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis 250 mg 10 Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections 250 mg 7 to 14 Treatment and prophylaxis of disseminated Mycobacterium avium disease [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] 500 mg e - H.pylori eradication to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence with amoxicillin and omeprazole or lansoprazole [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] 500 mg 10 to 14 H.pylori eradication to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence with omeprazole [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] 500 mg every 8 hours 14 a For M. b For H. parainfluenzae , the duration of therapy is 7 days. d For H. e Clarithromycin tablets therapy should continue if clinical response is observed. pylori Infection Triple therapy: Clarithromycin tablets/lansoprazole/amoxicillin The recommended adult dosage is 500 mg clarithromycin tablets, 30 mg lansoprazole, and 1 gram amoxicillin, all given every 12 hours for 10 or 14 days [see Indications and Usage (1.8) and Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . Triple therapy: Clarithromycin tablets/omeprazole/amoxicillin The recommended adult dosage is 500 mg clarithromycin tablets, 20 mg omeprazole, and 1 gram amoxicillin; all given every 12 hours for 10 days. In patients with an ulcer present at the time of initiation of therapy, an additional 18 days of omeprazole 20 mg once daily is recommended for ulcer healing and symptom relief [see Indications and Usage (1.8) and Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . Dual therapy: Clarithromycin tablets/omeprazole The recommended adult dosage is 500 mg clarithromycin tablets given every 8 hours and 40 mg omeprazole given once every morning for 14 days. An additional 14 days of omeprazole 20 mg once daily is recommended for ulcer healing and symptom relief [see Indications and Usage (1.8) and Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. Refer to dosage regimens for mycobacterial infections in pediatric patients for additional dosage information [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] . Clarithromycin tablets should be used in combination with other antimycobacterial drugs (e.g., ethambutol) that have shown in vitro activity against MAC or clinical benefit in MAC treatment [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . [See Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . 2.6 Dosage Adjustment in Patients with Renal Impairment See Table 2 for dosage adjustment in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment with or without concomitant atazanavir or ritonavir-containing regimens [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Clarithromycin Tablets Dosage Adjustments in Patients with Renal Impairment Recommended Clarithromycin Tablets Dosage Reduction Patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr of <30 mL/min) Reduce the dosage of clarithromycin tablets by 50% Patients with moderate renal impairment (CL cr of 30 to 60 mL/min) taking concomitant atazanavir or ritonavir-containing regimens Reduce the dosage of clarithromycin tablets by 50% Patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr of <30 mL/min) taking concomitant atazanavir or ritonavir-containing regimens Reduce the dosage of clarithromycin tablets by 75% 2.7 Dosage Adjustment Due to Drug Interactions Decrease the dose of clarithromycin tablets by 50 % when co-administered with atazanavir [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Dosage adjustments for other drugs when co-administered with clarithromycin tablets may be recommended due to drug interactions [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults: Clarithromycin tablets 250 mg or 500 mg every 12 hours for 7 to 14 days ( 2.2 ) H. ( 2.3 ) Pediatric Patients: Clarithromycin tablets 15 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours for 10 days ( 2.4 ) Mycobacterial Infections: Clarithromycin tablets 500 mg every 12 hours; clarithromycin tablets 7.5 mg/kg up to 500 mg every 12 hours in pediatric patients ( 2.5 ) Reduce dose in moderate renal impairment with concomitant atazanavir or ritonavir-containing regimens and in severe renal impairment ( 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Clarithromycin tablets may be given with or without food. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK : The recommended dosage is vonoprazan 20 mg plus amoxicillin 1,000 mg plus clarithromycin 500 mg, each given twice daily (morning and evening, 12 hours apart), with or without food, for 14 days. ( 2.1 ) VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK : The recommended dosage is vonoprazan 20 mg twice daily (morning and evening) plus amoxicillin 1,000 mg, three times a day (morning, mid-day, and evening), with or without food, for 14 days. ( 2.2 ) See full prescribing information for the recommended dosage for patients with renal or hepatic impairment. ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage for VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK is a co-packaged product containing vonoprazan tablets, amoxicillin capsules, and clarithromycin tablets each given twice daily (in the morning and evening, 12 hours apart) with or without food, for 14 days [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The recommended adult oral dosage of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK is the following: In the morning, take 20 mg of vonoprazan (one oval pale red tablet), 1,000 mg of amoxicillin (two yellow capsules), and 500 mg of clarithromycin (one oval white tablet) In the evening, take 20 mg of vonoprazan (one oval pale red tablet), and 1,000 mg of amoxicillin (two yellow capsules), and 500 mg of clarithromycin (one oval white tablet) 2.2 Recommended Dosage for VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK is a co-packaged product containing vonoprazan tablets and amoxicillin capsules given with or without food, for 14 days [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The recommended adult oral dosage of VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK is the following: In the morning, take 20 mg of vonoprazan (one oval pale red tablet) and 1,000 mg of amoxicillin (two yellow capsules) Mid-day, take 1,000 mg of amoxicillin (two yellow capsules) In the evening, take 20 mg of vonoprazan (one oval pale red tablet) and 1,000 mg of amoxicillin (two yellow capsules) 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment The recommended dosage of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK and VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK in adult patients with renal impairment is described in Table 1 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 1: Recommended Dosage of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK and VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK in Patients with Renal Impairment Estimated GFR Recommended Dosage VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK 30 mL/minute or greater 20 mg vonoprazan twice daily 1,000 mg amoxicillin twice daily 500 mg clarithromycin twice daily 20 mg vonoprazan twice daily 1,000 mg amoxicillin three times daily Less than 30 mL/minute Use is not recommended 2.4 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment The recommended dosage of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK and VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK in adult patients with hepatic impairment is described in Table 2 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 2: Recommended Dosage of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK and VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Classification Recommended Dosage VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK Child-Pugh Class A 20 mg vonoprazan twice daily 1,000 mg amoxicillin twice daily 500 mg clarithromycin twice daily 20 mg vonoprazan twice daily 1,000 mg amoxicillin three times daily Child-Pugh Class B Use is not recommended Child-Pugh Class C Use is not recommended 2.5 Missed Doses If a dose is missed, administer VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK or VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK as soon as possible, within 4 hours after the missed dose. If more than 4 hours have passed, skip the missed dose and administer the next dose on the regularly scheduled time. Patients should continue the normal dosing schedule until the medication is completed. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2.1 Importrant Administration Instructions Clarithromycin tablets may be given with or without food. 1 2.3 Combination Dosing Regimens for H. pylori Infection • Triple therapy: Clarithromycin tablets/lansoprazole/amoxicillin The recommended adult dosage is 500 mg clarithromycin tablets, 30 mg lansoprazole, and 1 gram amoxicillin, all given every 12 hours for 10 or 14 days [see Indications and Usage (1.8) and Clinical Studies (14.3)]. • Triple therapy: Clarithromycin tablets/omeprazole/amoxicillin The recommended adult dosage is 500 mg clarithromycin tablets, 20 mg omeprazole, and 1 gram amoxicillin; all given every 12 hours for 10 days. In patients with an ulcer present at the time of initiation of therapy, an additional 18 days of omeprazole 20 mg once daily is recommended for ulcer healing and symptom relief [see Indications and Usage (1.8) and Clinical Studies (14.3)]. • Dual therapy: Clarithromycin tablets/omeprazole The recommended adult dosage is 500 mg clarithromycin tablets given every 8 hours and 40 mg omeprazole given once every morning for 14 days. An additional 14 days of omeprazole 20 mg once daily is recommended for ulcer healing and symptom relief [see Indications and Usage (1.8) and Clinical Studies (14.3)]. Refer to dosage regimens for mycobacterial infections in pediatric patients for additional dosage information [see Dosage and Administration (2.5)]. Clarithromycin tablets should be used in combination with other antimycobacterial drugs (e.g., ethambutol) that have shown in vitro activity against MAC or clinical benefit in MAC treatment [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. [See Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Clinical Studies (14.1)]. 2.6 Dosage Adjustment in Patients with Renal Impairment See Table 2 for dosage adjustment in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment with or without concomitant atazanavir or ritonavir-containing regimens [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 1 2.7 Dosage Adjustment Due to Drug Interactions Decrease the dose of clarithromycin tablets by 50 % when co-administered with atazanavir [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Dosage adjustments for other drugs when co-administered with clarithromycin tablets may be recommended due to drug interactions [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults: clarithromycin 250 mg or 500 mg every 12 hours for 7–14 days (2.2) Adults: H. pylori eradication (in combination with lansoprazole/amoxicillin, omeprazole/amoxicillin, or omeprazole): clarithromycin 500 mg every 8 or 12 hours for 10–14 days. (2.3) Pediatric Patients: clarithromycin 15 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours for 10 days (2.4) Mycobacterial Infections: clarithromycin 500 mg every 12 hours; clarithromycin 7.5 mg/kg up to 500 mg every 12 hours in pediatric patients (2.5) Reduce dose in moderate renal impairment with concomitant atazanavir or ritonavir-containing regimens and in severe renal impairment (2.6) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Clarithromycin tablets may be given with or without food. 2.2 Adult Dosage The recommended dosages of clarithromycin for the treatment of mild to moderate infections in adults are listed in Table 1. Adult Dosage Guidelines Clarithromycin tablets Infection Dosage (every 12 hours) Duration (days) Acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic bronchitis 250 to 500 mg a 7 b -14 Acute maxillary sinusitis 500 mg 14 Community-acquired pneumonia 250 mg c 7 d -14 Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis 250 mg 10 Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections 250 mg 7-14 Treatment and prophylaxis of disseminated Mycobacterium avium disease [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] 500 mg e - H.pylori eradication to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence with amoxicillin and omeprazole or lansoprazole [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] 500 mg 10-14 H.pylori eradication to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence with omeprazole [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] 500 mg every 8 hours 14 a For M. c For H. parainfluenzae and M. catarrhalis use clarithromycin extended-release tablets only. e Clarithromycin therapy should continue if clinical response is observed. pylori Infection Triple therapy: clarithromycin/lansoprazole/amoxicillin The recommended adult dosage is 500 mg clarithromycin, 30 mg lansoprazole, and 1 gram amoxicillin, all given every 12 hours for 10 or 14 days [see Indications and Usage (1.8) and Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . Triple therapy: clarithromycin/omeprazole/amoxicillin The recommended adult dosage is 500 mg clarithromycin, 20 mg omeprazole, and 1 gram amoxicillin; all given every 12 hours for 10 days. Dual therapy: clarithromycin/omeprazole The recommended adult dosage is 500 mg clarithromycin given every 8 hours and 40 mg omeprazole given once every morning for 14 days. An additional 14 days of omeprazole 20 mg once daily is recommended for ulcer healing and symptom relief [see Indications and Usage (1.8) and Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . 2.5 Dosage Regimens for Mycobacterial Infections For the treatment of disseminated infection due to Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC), clarithromycin is recommended as the primary agents. Clarithromycin should be used in combination with other antimycobacterial drugs (e.g., ethambutol) that have shown in vitro activity against MAC or clinical benefit in MAC treatment [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Adult Patients For treatment and prophylaxis of mycobacterial infections in adults, the recommended dose of clarithromycin is 500 mg every 12 hours. Clarithromycin therapy should continue if clinical response is observed. Clarithromycin Dosage Adjustments in Patients with Renal Impairment Recommended Clarithromycin Dosage Reduction Patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr of <30 mL/min) Reduce the dosage of clarithromycin by 50% Patients with moderate renal impairment (CL cr of 30 to 60 mL/min) taking concomitant atazanavir or ritonavir-containing regimens Reduce the dosage of clarithromycin by 50% Patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr of <30 mL/min) taking concomitant atazanavir or ritonavir-containing regimens Reduce the dosage of clarithromycin by 75% 2.7 Dosage Adjustment Due to Drug Interactions Decrease the dose of clarithromycin by 50% when co-administered with atazanavir [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Dosage adjustments for other drugs when co-administered with clarithromycin may be recommended due to drug interactions [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Clarithromycin tablets may be given with or without food. Clarithromycin Dosage Adjustments in Patients with Renal Impairment Recommended Clarithromycin Dosage Reduction Patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr of <30 mL/min) Reduce the dosage of clarithromycin by 50% Patients with moderate renal impairment (CL cr of 30 to 60 mL/min) taking concomitant atazanavir or ritonavir-containing regimens Reduce the dosage of clarithromycin by 50% Patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr of <30 mL/min) taking concomitant atazanavir or ritonavir-containing regimens Reduce the dosage of clarithromycin by 75% 2.7 Dosage Adjustment Due to Drug Interactions Decrease the dose of clarithromycin by 50% when co-administered with atazanavir [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults : clarithromycin extended-release tablets 1 gram every 24 hours for 7–14 days (2.2) Reduce dose in moderate renal impairment with concomitant atazanavir or ritonavir-containing regimens and in severe renal impairment (2.6) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Clarithromycin extended-release tablets should be taken with food. Swallow clarithromycin extended-release tablets whole; do not chew, break or crush clarithromycin extended-release tablets. 2.2 Adult Dosage The recommended dosages of clarithromycin extended-release tablets for the treatment of mild to moderate infections in adults are listed in Table 1. Adult Dosage Guidelines Clarithromycin Extended-release Tablets Infection Dosage (every 24 hours) Duration (days) Acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic bronchitis 1 gram 7 Acute maxillary sinusitis 1 gram 14 Community-acquired pneumonia 1 gram 7 2.6 Dosage Adjustment in Patients with Renal Impairment See Table 2 for dosage adjustment in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment with or without concomitant atazanavir or ritonavir-containing regimens [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Clarithromycin Dosage Adjustments in Patients with Renal Impairment Recommended Clarithromycin Dosage Reduction Patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr of <30 mL/min) Reduce the dosage of clarithromycin by 50% Patients with moderate renal impairment (CL cr of 30 to 60 mL/min) taking concomitant atazanavir or ritonavir-containing regimens Reduce the dosage of clarithromycin by 50% Patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr of <30 mL/min) taking concomitant atazanavir or ritonavir-containing regimens Reduce the dosage of clarithromycin by 75% 2.7 Dosage Adjustment Due to Drug Interactions Decrease the dose of clarithromycin by 50 % when co-administered with atazanavir [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Clarithromycin extended-release tablets should be taken with food. Adult Dosage Guidelines Clarithromycin Extended-release Tablets Infection Dosage (every 24 hours) Duration (days) Acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic bronchitis 1 gram 7 Acute maxillary sinusitis 1 gram 14 Community-acquired pneumonia 1 gram 7 2.7 Dosage Adjustment Due to Drug Interactions Decrease the dose of clarithromycin by 50 % when co-administered with atazanavir [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Pediatric Patients: Clarithromycin 15 mg/kg/day divided every 12 hours for 10 days ( 2.4 ) • Mycobacterial Infections: Clarithromycin 500 mg every 12 hours; Clarithromycin 7.5 mg/kg up to 500 mg every 12 hours in pediatric patients ( 2.5 ) • Reduce dose in moderate renal impairment with concomitant atazanavir or ritonavir-containing regimens and in severe renal impairment ( 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Clarithromycin for oral suspension may be given with or without food. Refer to dosage regimens for mycobacterial infections in pediatric patients for additional dosage information [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ) ]. Clarithromycin should be used in combination with other antimycobacterial drugs (e.g. ethambutol) that have shown in vitro activity against MAC or clinical benefit in MAC treatment [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. 2.6 Dosage Adjustment in Patients with Renal Impairment See Table 2 for dosage adjustment in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment with or without concomitant atazanavir or ritonavir-containing regimens [ see Drug Interactions ( 7) ]. Clarithromycin Dosage Adjustments in Patients with Renal Impairment Recommended ClarithromycinDosage Reduction Patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr of <30 mL/min) Reduce the dosage of Clarithromycin by 50% Patients with moderate renal impairment (CL cr of 30 to 60 mL/min) taking concomitant atazanavir or ritonavir-containing regimens Reduce the dosage of Clarithromycin by 50% Patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr of <30 mL/min) taking concomitant atazanavir or ritonavir-containing regimens Reduce the dosage of Clarithromycin by 75% 2.7 Dosage Adjustment Due to Drug Interactions Decrease the dose of clarithromycin by 50 % when co-administered with atazanavir [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ]. Dosage adjustments for other drugs when co-administered with clarithromycin may be recommended due to drug interactions [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ]. 2.8 Reconstitution of Clarithromycin for Oral Suspension The supplied clarithromycin granules must be reconstituted with water prior to administration of clarithromycin for oral suspension. Table 3 below indicates the volume of water to be added when reconstituting. To reconstitute: a. Add half the volume of water to the bottle containing the clarithromycin granules and shake vigorously. b. Add the remainder of water to the bottle and shake. Shake well before each use. After mixing, store at 15° to 30°C (59° to 86°F) and use within 14 days. Do not refrigerate. Table 3. Volume of Water to be Added When Reconstituting Clarithromycin Granules Total Volume After Reconstitution Clarithromycin Concentration After Reconstitution Amount of Water to be Added 50 mL 125 mg/5 mL 29.5 mL 100 mL 125 mg/5 mL 59 mL 50 mL 250 mg/5 mL 28.5 mL 100 mL 250 mg/5 mL 57 mL
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to clarithromycin or any macrolide drug ( 4.1 ) Cisapride and pimozide ( 4.2 ) History of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction with use of clarithromycin ( 4.3 ) Colchicine in renal or hepatic impairment ( 4.4 ) Lomitapide, lovastatin, and simvastatin ( 4.5 ) Ergot alkaloids (ergotamine or dihydroergotamine) ( 4.6 ) Lurasidone ( 4.7 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Clarithromycin tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to clarithromycin, erythromycin, or any of the macrolide antibacterial drugs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . 4.2 Cisapride and Pimozide Concomitant administration of clarithromycin tablets with cisapride and pimozide is contraindicated [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . There have been postmarketing reports of drug interactions when clarithromycin is co‑administered with cisapride or pimozide, resulting in cardiac arrhythmias (QT prolongation, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, and torsades de pointes ) most likely due to inhibition of metabolism of these drugs by clarithromycin tablets. Fatalities have been reported. 4.3 Cholestatic Jaundice/Hepatic Dysfunction Clarithromycin tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of cholestatic jaundice or hepatic dysfunction associated with prior use of clarithromycin. 4.4 Colchicine Concomitant administration of clarithromycin tablets and colchicine is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. 4.5 Lomitapide, Lovastatin, and Simvastatin Concomitant administration of clarithromycin tablets with lomitapide is contraindicated due to potential for markedly increased transaminases [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. Concomitant administration of clarithromycin tablets with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) that are extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 (lovastatin or simvastatin) is contraindicated, due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. 4.6 Ergot Alkaloids Concomitant administration of clarithromycin and ergotamine or dihydroergotamine is contraindicated [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . 4.7 Lurasidone Concomitant administration of clarithromycin and lurasidone is contraindicated since it may result in an increase in lurasidone exposure and the potential for serious adverse reactions [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ]. 4.8 Contraindications for Co-administered Drugs For information about contraindications of other drugs indicated in combination with clarithromycin tablets, refer to their full prescribing information (contraindications section). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to clarithromycin or any macrolide drug (4.1) Cisapride and pimozide (4.2) History of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction with use of clarithromycin (4.3) Colchicine in renal or hepatic impairment (4.4) Lomitapide, lovastatin, and simvastatin (4.5) Ergot alkaloids (ergotamine or dihydroergotamine) (4.6) Lurasidone ( 4.7 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Clarithromycin tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to clarithromycin, erythromycin, or any of the macrolide antibacterial drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 4.2 Cisapride and Pimozide Concomitant administration of clarithromycin tablets with cisapride and pimozide is contraindicated [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . There have been postmarketing reports of drug interactions when clarithromycin is co-administered with cisapride or pimozide, resulting in cardiac arrhythmias (QT prolongation, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, and torsades de pointes ) most likely due to inhibition of metabolism of these drugs by clarithromycin tablets. 4.5 Lomitapide, Lovastatin, and Simvastatin Concomitant administration of clarithromycin tablets with lomitapide is contraindicated due to potential for markedly increased transaminases [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Drug Interactions (7) ] . Concomitant administration of clarithromycin tablets with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) that are extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 (lovastatin or simvastatin) is contraindicated, due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Drug Interactions (7) ] . 4.6 Ergot Alkaloids Concomitant administration of clarithromycin and ergotamine or dihydroergotamine is contraindicated [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . 4.7 Lurasidone Concomitant administration of clarithromycin and lurasidone is contraindicated since it may result in an increase in lurasidone exposure and the potential for serious adverse reactions [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to clarithromycin or any macrolide drug ( 4.1 ) Cisapride and pimozide ( 4.2 ) History of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction with use of clarithromycin ( 4.3 ) Colchicine in renal or hepatic impairment ( 4.4 ) Lomitapide, lovastatin, and simvastatin ( 4.5 ) Ergot alkaloids (ergotamine or dihydroergotamine) ( 4.6 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Clarithromycin tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to clarithromycin, erythromycin, or any of the macrolide antibacterial drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 4.7 Contraindications for Co-administered Drugs For information about contraindications of other drugs indicated in combination with clarithromycin tablets, refer to their full prescribing information (contraindications section). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK and VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK : Known hypersensitivity to vonoprazan, amoxicillin or any other beta-lactams, clarithromycin or any other macrolide antimicrobial or any component of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. ( 4.1 ) Known hypersensitivity to vonoprazan, amoxicillin or any other beta-lactams or any component of VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK. ( 4.1 ) Rilpivirine-containing products. ( 4.1 ) VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK Due to the Clarithromycin Component : Pimozide. ( 4.2 ) Lomitapide, lovastatin, and simvastatin. ( 4.2 ) Ergot alkaloids (ergotamine or dihydroergotamine). ( 4.2 ) Colchicine in renal or hepatic impairment. ( 4.2 ) History of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction with use of clarithromycin. ( 4.2 ) Lurasidone. ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Contraindications to VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK and VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK Hypersensitivity Reactions VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK and VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any component of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK: vonoprazan, amoxicillin (or other β-lactam antibacterials, e.g., penicillins and cephalosporins), or clarithromycin (or other macrolide antibacterial drugs, e.g., erythromycin) or VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK: vonoprazan or amoxicillin (or other β-lactam antibacterials, e.g., penicillins and cephalosporins) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Rilpivirine-containing Products VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK and VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK are contraindicated with rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. 4.2 Additional Contraindications to VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK Due to the Clarithromycin Component Serious Adverse Reactions/Risks Due to Drug Interactions Because of the clarithromycin component, VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK is contraindicated with concomitant use of: Pimozide: There have been postmarketing reports of drug interactions when clarithromycin is co-administered with pimozide, resulting in cardiac arrhythmias (QT prolongation, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, and torsades de pointes ) most likely due to inhibition of metabolism of these drugs by clarithromycin. Fatalities have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Drug Interactions (7) ]. Lipid-lowering Agents: Lomitapide, simvastatin, and lovastatin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Drug Interactions (7) ] Ergot Alkaloids: Ergotamine or dihydroergotamine [see Drug Interactions (7) ] Colchicine in patients with renal or hepatic impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Drug Interactions (7) ] Lurasidone: Coadministration of clarithromycin and lurasidone may lead to an increase in lurasidone exposure and the potential for serious adverse reactions [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Cholestatic Jaundice/Hepatic Dysfunction VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK is contraindicated in patients with a history of cholestatic jaundice or hepatic dysfunction associated with prior use of clarithromycin. CONTRAINDICATIONS 4.1 Hypersensitivity Clarithromycin tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to clarithromycin, erythromycin, or any of the macrolide antibacterial drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. 4.2 Cisapride and Pimozide Concomitant administration of clarithromycin tablets with cisapride and pimozide is contraindicated [see Drug Interactions (7)]. There have been postmarketing reports of drug interactions when clarithromycin is co-administered with cisapride or pimozide, resulting in cardiac arrhythmias (QT prolongation, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, and torsades de pointes) most likely due to inhibition of metabolism of these drugs by clarithromycin tablets. 4.3 Cholestatic Jaundice / Hepatic Dysfunction Clarithromycin tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of cholestatic jaundice or hepatic dysfunction associated with prior use of clarithromycin. 4.5 Lomitapide, Lovastatin, and Simvastatin Concomitant administration of clarithromycin tablets with lomitapide is contraindicated due to potential for markedly increased transaminases [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Drug Interactions (7)]. Concomitant administration of clarithromycin tablets with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) that are extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 (lovastatin or simvastatin) is contraindicated, due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Drug Interactions (7)]. 4.6 Ergot Alkaloids Concomitant administration of clarithromycin and ergotamine or dihydroergotamine is contraindicated [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 4.7 Lurasidone Concomitant administration of clarithromycin and lurasidone is contraindicated since it may result in an increase in lurasidone exposure and the potential for serious adverse reactions [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to clarithromycin or any macrolide drug (4.1) Cisapride and pimozide (4.2) History of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction with use of clarithromycin (4.3) Colchicine in renal or hepatic impairment (4.4) Lomitapide, lovastatin, and simvastatin (4.5) Ergot alkaloids (ergotamine or dihydroergotamine) (4.6) Lurasidone (4.7) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Clarithromycin is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to clarithromycin, erythromycin, or any of the macrolide antibacterial drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 4.2 Cisapride and Pimozide Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with cisapride and pimozide is contraindicated [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . There have been postmarketing reports of drug interactions when clarithromycin is co-administered with cisapride or pimozide, resulting in cardiac arrhythmias (QT prolongation, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, and torsades de pointes ) most likely due to inhibition of metabolism of these drugs by clarithromycin. 4.3 Cholestatic Jaundice/Hepatic Dysfunction Clarithromycin is contraindicated in patients with a history of cholestatic jaundice or hepatic dysfunction associated with prior use of clarithromycin. 4.4 Colchicine Concomitant administration of clarithromycin and colchicine is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. 4.5 Lomitapide, Lovastatin, and Simvastatin Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with lomitapide is contraindicated due to potential for markedly increased transaminases [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Drug Interactions (7) ] . Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) that are extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 (lovastatin or simvastatin) is contraindicated, due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Drug Interactions (7) ] . 4.7 Lurasidone Concomitant administration of clarithromycin and lurasidone is contraindicated since it may result in an increase in lurasidone exposure and the potential for serious adverse reactions [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . 4.8 Contraindications for Co-administered Drugs For information about contraindications of other drugs indicated in combination with clarithromycin, refer to their full prescribing information (contraindications section). 4.1 Hypersensitivity Clarithromycin is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to clarithromycin, erythromycin, or any of the macrolide antibacterial drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to clarithromycin or any macrolide drug ( 4.1 ) Cisapride and pimozide ( 4.2 ) History of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction with use of clarithromycin ( 4.3 ) Colchicine in renal or hepatic impairment ( 4.4 ) Lomitapide, lovastatin, and simvastatin ( 4.5 ) Ergot alkaloids (ergotamine or dihydroergotamine) ( 4.6 ) Lurasidone ( 4.7 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Clarithromycin tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to clarithromycin, erythromycin, or any of the macrolide antibacterial drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Hypersensitivity to clarithromycin or any macrolide drug ( 4.1 ) • Cisapride and pimozide ( 4.2 ) • History of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction with use of clarithromycin ( 4.3 ) • Colchicine in renal or hepatic impairment ( 4.4 ) • Lomitapide, lovastatin, and simvastatin ( 4.5 ) • Ergot alkaloids (ergotamine or dihydroergotamine) ( 4.6 ) • Lurasidone ( 4.7 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Clarithromycin is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to clarithromycin, erythromycin, or any of the macrolide antibacterial drugs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. 4.2 Cisapride and Pimozide Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with cisapride and pimozide is contraindicated [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ]. There have been postmarketing reports of drug interactions when clarithromycin is co‑ administered with cisapride or pimozide, resulting in cardiac arrhythmias (QT prolongation, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, and torsades de pointes ) most likely due to inhibition of metabolism of these drugs by clarithromycin. 4.5 Lomitapide, Lovastatin, and Simvastatin Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with lomitapide is contraindicated due to potential for markedly increased transaminases [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ]. Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) that are extensively metabolized by CYP3A4 (lovastatin or simvastatin) is contraindicated, due to the increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ]. 4.6 Ergot Alkaloids Concomitant administration of clarithromycin and ergotamine or dihydroergotamine is contraindicated [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ]. 4.7 Lurasidone Concomitant administration of clarithromycin and lurasidone is contraindicated since it may result in an increase in lurasidone exposure and the potential for serious adverse reactions [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )].
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Co-administration of clarithromycin tablets is known to inhibit CYP3A, and a drug primarily metabolized by CYP3A may be associated with elevations in drug concentrations that could increase or prolong both therapeutic and adverse effects of the concomitant drug. Clarithromycin tablets should be used with caution in patients receiving treatment with other drugs known to be CYP3A enzyme substrates, especially if the CYP3A substrate has a narrow safety margin (e.g., carbamazepine) and/or the substrate is extensively metabolized by this enzyme. Adjust dosage when appropriate and monitor serum concentrations of drugs primarily metabolized by CYP3A closely in patients concurrently receiving clarithromycin. Table 8. Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Clarithromycin Tablets Drugs That Are Affected By Clarithromycin Tablets Drug(s) with Pharmacokinetics Affected by Clarithromycin Tablets Recommendation Comments Antiarrhythmics: Disopyramide Quinidine Dofetilide Amiodarone Sotalol Procainamide Not Recommended Disopyramide, Quinidine: There have been postmarketing reports of torsades de pointes occurring with concurrent use of clarithromycin and quinidine or disopyramide. Electrocardiograms should be monitored for QTc prolongation during coadministration of clarithromycin with these drugs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Serum concentrations of these medications should also be monitored. There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with disopyramide and quinidine. There have been postmarketing reports of hypoglycemia with the concomitant administration of clarithromycin and disopyramide. Therefore, blood glucose levels should be monitored during concomitant administration of clarithromycin and disopyramide. Digoxin Use With Caution Digoxin: Digoxin is a substrate for P-glycoprotein (Pgp) and clarithromycin is known to inhibit Pgp. When clarithromycin and digoxin are co‑administered, inhibition of Pgp by clarithromycin may lead to increased exposure of digoxin. Elevated digoxin serum concentrations in patients receiving clarithromycin and digoxin concomitantly have been reported in postmarketing surveillance. Some patients have shown clinical signs consistent with digoxin toxicity, including potentially fatal arrhythmias. Monitoring of serum digoxin concentrations should be considered, especially for patients with digoxin concentrations in the upper therapeutic range. Oral Anticoagulants: Warfarin Use With Caution Oral anticoagulants: Spontaneous reports in the postmarketing period suggest that concomitant administration of clarithromycin and oral anticoagulants may potentiate the effects of the oral anticoagulants. Prothrombin times should be carefully monitored while patients are receiving clarithromycin and oral anticoagulants simultaneously [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . Antiepileptics: Carbamazepine Use With Caution Carbamazepine: Concomitant administration of single doses of clarithromycin and carbamazepine has been shown to result in increased plasma concentrations of carbamazepine. Blood level monitoring of carbamazepine may be considered. Increased serum concentrations of carbamazepine were observed in clinical trials with clarithromycin. There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with carbamazepine. Antifungals: Itraconazole Use With Caution Itraconazole: Both clarithromycin and itraconazole are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A, potentially leading to a bi-directional drug interaction when administered concomitantly (see also Itraconazole under “Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin Tablets” in the table below). Clarithromycin may increase the plasma concentrations of itraconazole. Patients taking itraconazole and clarithromycin concomitantly should be monitored closely for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged adverse reactions. Fluconazole No Dose Adjustment Fluconazole: [see Pharmacokinetics ( 12.3 )] Anti-Gout Agents: Colchicine (in patients with renal or hepatic impairment) Contraindicated Colchicine: Colchicine is a substrate for both CYP3A and the efflux transporter, P-glycoprotein (Pgp). Clarithromycin and other macrolides are known to inhibit CYP3A and Pgp. The dose of colchicine should be reduced when co-administered with clarithromycin in patients with normal renal and hepatic function [see Contraindications ( 4.4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . Colchicine (in patients with normal renal and hepatic function) Use With Caution Antipsychotics: Pimozide Contraindicated Pimozide: [See Contraindications ( 4.2 )] Quetiapine Lurasidone Quetiapine: Quetiapine is a substrate for CYP3A4, which is inhibited by clarithromycin. Co‑administration with clarithromycin could result in increased quetiapine exposure and possible quetiapine related toxicities. There have been postmarketing reports of somnolence, orthostatic hypotension, altered state of consciousness, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, and QT prolongation during concomitant administration. Refer to quetiapine prescribing information for recommendations on dose reduction if co‑administered with CYP3A4 inhibitors such as clarithromycin. Lurasidone: [See Contraindications ( 4.7 )] Antispasmodics: Tolterodine (patients deficient in CYP2D6 activity) Use With Caution Tolterodine: The primary route of metabolism for tolterodine is via CYP2D6. However, in a subset of the population devoid of CYP2D6, the identified pathway of metabolism is via CYP3A. In this population subset, inhibition of CYP3A results in significantly higher serum concentrations of tolterodine. Tolterodine 1 mg twice daily is recommended in patients deficient in CYP2D6 activity (poor metabolizers) when co-administered with clarithromycin. Antivirals: Atazanavir Use With Caution Atazanavir: Both clarithromycin and atazanavir are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A, and there is evidence of a bi-directional drug interaction (see Atazanavir under “Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin Tablets” in the table below) [see Pharmacokinetics ( 12.3 )] . Saquinavir (in patients with decreased renal function) Saquinavir: Both clarithromycin and saquinavir are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A and there is evidence of a bi-directional drug interaction (see Saquinavir under “Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin Tablets” in the table below) [see Pharmacokinetics ( 12.3 )] . Ritonavir Etravirine Ritonavir, Etravirine: (see Ritonavir and Etravirine under “Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin Tablets” in the table below) [see Pharmacokinetics ( 12.3 )] . Maraviroc Maraviroc: Clarithromycin may result in increases in maraviroc exposures by inhibition of CYP3A metabolism. See maraviroc prescribing information for dose recommendation when given with strong CYP3A inhibitors such as clarithromycin. Boceprevir (in patients with normal renal function) Didanosine No Dose Adjustment Boceprevir: Both clarithromycin and boceprevir are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A, potentially leading to a bi-directional drug interaction when co‑administered. No dose adjustments are necessary for patients with normal renal function (see boceprevir prescribing information). Zidovudine Zidovudine: Simultaneous oral administration of clarithromycin immediate-release tablets and zidovudine to HIV-infected adult patients may result in decreased steady-state zidovudine concentrations. Administration of clarithromycin and zidovudine should be separated by at least two hours [see Pharmacokinetics ( 12.3 )] . The impact of co-administration of clarithromycin extended-release tablets or granules and zidovudine has not been evaluated. Calcium Channel Blockers: Verapamil Use With Caution Verapamil: Hypotension, bradyarrhythmias, and lactic acidosis have been observed in patients receiving concurrent verapamil, [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . Amlodipine Diltiazem Amlodipine, Diltiazem: [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] Nifedipine Nifedipine: Nifedipine is a substrate for CYP3A. Clarithromycin and other macrolides are known to inhibit CYP3A. There is potential of CYP3A‑mediated interaction between nifedipine and clarithromycin. Hypotension and peripheral edema were observed when clarithromycin was taken concomitantly with nifedipine [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . Ergot Alkaloids: Ergotamine Dihydroergotamine Contraindicated Ergotamine, Dihydroergotamine: Postmarketing reports indicate that coadministration of clarithromycin with ergotamine or dihydroergotamine has been associated with acute ergot toxicity characterized by vasospasm and ischemia of the extremities and other tissues including the central nervous system [see Contraindications ( 4.6 )] . Gastroprokinetic Agents: Cisapride Contraindicated Cisapride: [See Contraindications ( 4.2 )] Lipid-lowering agents: Lomitapide Lovastatin Simvastatin Contraindicated Lomitapide, Lovastatin, Simvastatin: Clarithromycin may increase the exposure of these drugs by inhibition of CYP3A metabolism, thereby increasing the risk of toxicities from these drugs [see Contraindications ( 4.5 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] Atorvastatin, Pravastatin, Fluvastatin: [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] Atorvastatin Pravastatin Use With Caution Fluvastatin No Dose Adjustment Hypoglycemic Agents: Nateglinide Pioglitazone Repaglinide Rosiglitazone Use With Caution Nateglinide, Pioglitazone, Repaglinide, Rosiglitazone: [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] Insulin Insulin: [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] Immunosuppressants: Cyclosporine Use With Caution Cyclosporine: There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with cyclosporine. Tacrolimus Tacrolimus: There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with tacrolimus. Phosphodiesterase inhibitors: Sildenafil Tadalafil Vardenafil Use With Caution Sildenafil, Tadalafil, Vardenafil: Each of these phosphodiesterase inhibitors is primarily metabolized by CYP3A, and CYP3A will be inhibited by concomitant administration of clarithromycin. Co-administration of clarithromycin with sildenafil, tadalafil, or vardenafil will result in increased exposure of these phosphodiesterase inhibitors. Co-administration of these phosphodiesterase inhibitors with clarithromycin is not recommended. Increased systemic exposure of these drugs may occur with clarithromycin; reduction of dosage for phosphodiesterase inhibitors should be considered (see their respective prescribing information). Proton Pump Inhibitors: Omeprazole No Dose Adjustment Omeprazole: The mean 24-hour gastric pH value was 5.2 when omeprazole was administered alone and 5.7 when coadministered with clarithromycin as a result of increased omeprazole exposures [see Pharmacokinetics ( 12.3 )] (see also Omeprazole under “Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin Tablets” in the table below). Xanthine Derivatives: Theophylline Use With Caution Theophylline: Clarithromycin use in patients who are receiving theophylline may be associated with an increase of serum theophylline concentrations [see Pharmacokinetics ( 12.3 )] . Monitoring of serum theophylline concentrations should be considered for patients receiving high doses of theophylline or with baseline concentrations in the upper therapeutic range. Triazolobenzodiazepines and Other Related Benzodiazepines: Midazolam Use With Caution Midazolam: When oral midazolam is co‑administered with clarithromycin, dose adjustments may be necessary and possible prolongation and intensity of effect should be anticipated [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) and Pharmacokinetics ( 12.3 )] . Alprazolam Triazolam Triazolam, Alprazolam: Caution and appropriate dose adjustments should be considered when triazolam or alprazolam is co-administered with clarithromycin. There have been postmarketing reports of drug interactions and central nervous system (CNS) effects (e.g., somnolence and confusion) with the concomitant use of clarithromycin and triazolam. Monitoring the patient for increased CNS pharmacological effects is suggested. In postmarketing experience, erythromycin has been reported to decrease the clearance of triazolam and midazolam, and thus, may increase the pharmacologic effect of these benzodiazepines. Temazepam Nitrazepam Lorazepam No Dose Adjustment Temazepam, Nitrazepam, Lorazepam: For benzodiazepines which are not metabolized by CYP3A (e.g., temazepam, nitrazepam, lorazepam), a clinically important interaction with clarithromycin is unlikely. Cytochrome P450 Inducers: Rifabutin Use With Caution Rifabutin: Concomitant administration of rifabutin and clarithromycin resulted in an increase in rifabutin, and decrease in clarithromycin serum levels together with an increased risk of uveitis (see Rifabutin under “Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin Tablets” in the table below). Other Drugs Metabolized by CYP3A: Alfentanil Bromocriptine Cilostazol Methylprednisolone Vinblastine Phenobarbital St. John’s Wort Use With Caution There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with alfentanil, methylprednisolone, cilostazol, bromocriptine, vinblastine, phenobarbital, and St. John’s Wort. Other Drugs Metabolized by CYP450 Isoforms Other than CYP3A: Hexobarbital Phenytoin Valproate Use With Caution There have been postmarketing reports of interactions of clarithromycin with drugs not thought to be metabolized by CYP3A, including hexobarbital, phenytoin, and valproate. Drugs that Affect Clarithromycin Tablets Drug(s) that Affect the Pharmacokinetics of Clarithromycin Tablets Recommendation Comments Antifungals: Itraconazole Use With Caution Itraconazole: Itraconazole may increase the plasma concentrations of clarithromycin. Patients taking itraconazole and clarithromycin concomitantly should be monitored closely for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged adverse reactions (see also Itraconazole under “Drugs That Are Affected By Clarithromycin Tablets” in the table above). Antivirals: Atazanavir Use With Caution Atazanavir: When clarithromycin is co-administered with atazanavir, the dose of clarithromycin should be decreased by 50% [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Since concentrations of 14-OH clarithromycin are significantly reduced when clarithromycin is co‑administered with atazanavir, alternative antibacterial therapy should be considered for indications other than infections due to Mycobacterium avium complex. Doses of clarithromycin greater than 1000 mg per day should not be co-administered with protease inhibitors. Ritonavir (in patients with decreased renal function) Ritonavir: Since concentrations of 14-OH clarithromycin are significantly reduced when clarithromycin is co-administered with ritonavir, alternative antibacterial therapy should be considered for indications other than infections due to Mycobacterium avium [see Pharmacokinetics ( 12.3 )] . Saquinavir (in patients with decreased renal function) Saquinavir: When saquinavir is co-administered with ritonavir, consideration should be given to the potential effects of ritonavir on clarithromycin (refer to ritonavir above) [see Pharmacokinetics ( 12.3 )] . Etravirine Etravirine: Clarithromycin exposure was decreased by etravirine; however, concentrations of the active metabolite, 14-OH-clarithromycin, were increased. Because 14-OH-clarithromycin has reduced activity against Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC), overall activity against this pathogen may be altered; therefore alternatives to clarithromycin should be considered for the treatment of MAC. Saquinavir (in patients with normal renal function) Ritonavir (in patients with normal renal function) No Dose Adjustment Proton Pump Inhibitors: Omeprazole Use With Caution Omeprazole: Clarithromycin concentrations in the gastric tissue and mucus were also increased by concomitant administration of omeprazole [see Pharmacokinetics ( 12.3 )] . Miscellaneous Cytochrome P450 Inducers: Efavirenz Nevirapine Rifampicin Rifabutin Rifapentine Use With Caution Inducers of CYP3A enzymes, such as efavirenz, nevirapine, rifampicin, rifabutin, and rifapentine will increase the metabolism of clarithromycin, thus decreasing plasma concentrations of clarithromycin, while increasing those of 14-OH-clarithromycin. Since the microbiological activities of clarithromycin and 14-OH-clarithromycin are different for different bacteria, the intended therapeutic effect could be impaired during concomitant administration of clarithromycin and enzyme inducers. Alternative antibacterial treatment should be considered when treating patients receiving inducers of CYP3A. There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with rifabutin (see Rifabutin under “Drugs That Are Affected By Clarithromycin Tablets” in the table above). Co-administration of clarithromycin tablets can alter the concentrations of other drugs. The potential for drug-drug interactions must be considered prior to and during therapy. ( 4 , 5.2 , 5.4 , 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Co-administration of clarithromycin is known to inhibit CYP3A, and a drug primarily metabolized by CYP3A may be associated with elevations in drug concentrations that could increase or prolong both therapeutic and adverse effects of the concomitant drug. Clarithromycin should be used with caution in patients receiving treatment with other drugs known to be CYP3A enzyme substrates, especially if the CYP3A substrate has a narrow safety margin (e.g., carbamazepine) and/or the substrate is extensively metabolized by this enzyme. Table 8: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Clarithromycin Drugs That Are Affected By Clarithromycin Drug(s) with Pharmacokinetics Affected by Clarithromycin Recommendation Comments Antiarrhythmics: Disopyramide Quinidine Dofetilide Amiodarone Sotalol Procainamide Digoxin Not Recommended Use With Caution Disopyramide, Quinidine : There have been postmarketing reports of torsades de pointes occurring with concurrent use of clarithromycin and quinidine or disopyramide. Electrocardiograms should be monitored for QTc prolongation during coadministration of clarithromycin with these drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Digoxin : Digoxin is a substrate for P-glycoprotein (Pgp) and clarithromycin is known to inhibit Pgp. When clarithromycin and digoxin are co-administered, inhibition of Pgp by clarithromycin may lead to increased exposure of digoxin. Prothrombin times should be carefully monitored while patients are receiving clarithromycin and oral anticoagulants simultaneously [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Antiepileptics: Carbamazepine Use With Caution Carbamazepine : Concomitant administration of single doses of clarithromycin and carbamazepine has been shown to result in increased plasma concentrations of carbamazepine. Antifungals: Itraconazole Fluconazole Use With Caution No Dose Adjustment Itraconazole: Both clarithromycin and itraconazole are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A, potentially leading to a bi-directional drug interaction when administered concomitantly (see also Itraconazole under “Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin” in the table below). Fluconazole: [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] Anti-Gout Agents: Colchicine (in patients with renal or hepatic impairment) Colchicine (in patients with normal renal and hepatic function) Contraindicated Use With Caution Colchicine : Colchicine is a substrate for both CYP3A and the efflux transporter, P-glycoprotein (Pgp). The dose of colchicine should be reduced when co-administered with clarithromycin in patients with normal renal and hepatic function [see Contraindications (4.4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Antipsychotics: Pimozide Quetiapine Lurasidone Contraindicated Pimozide: [See Contraindications (4.2) ] Quetiapine : Quetiapine is a substrate for CYP3A4, which is inhibited by clarithromycin. Co-administration with clarithromycin could result in increased quetiapine exposure and possible quetiapine related toxicities. Refer to quetiapine prescribing information for recommendations on dose reduction if co-administered with CYP3A4 inhibitors such as clarithromycin. Lurasidone : [See Contraindications (4.7) ] Antispasmodics: Tolterodine (patients deficient in CYP2D6 activity) Use With Caution Tolterodine : The primary route of metabolism for tolterodine is via. CYP2D6. However, in a subset of the population devoid of CYP2D6, the identified pathway of metabolism is via. CYP3A. Antivirals: Atazanavir Saquinavir (in patients with decreased renal function) Ritonavir Etravirine Maraviroc Boceprevir (in patients with normal renal function) Didanosine Zidovudine Use With Caution No Dose Adjustment Atazanavir : Both clarithromycin and atazanavir are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A, and there is evidence of a bi-directional drug interaction (see Atazanavir under “Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin” in the table below) [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] . Saquinavir : Both clarithromycin and saquinavir are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A and there is evidence of a bi-directional drug interaction (see Saquinavir under “Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin” in the table below) [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] . Ritonavir, Etravirine: (see Ritonavir and Etravirine under “Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin” in the table below) [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] . Maraviroc : Clarithromycin may result in increases in maraviroc exposures by inhibition of CYP3A metabolism. See Selzentry ® prescribing information for dose recommendation when given with strong CYP3A inhibitors such as clarithromycin. Boceprevir: Both clarithromycin and boceprevir are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A, potentially leading to a bi-directional drug interaction when co-administered. No dose adjustments are necessary for patients with normal renal function (see Victrelis ® prescribing information). Zidovudine: Simultaneous oral administration of clarithromycin immediate-release tablets and zidovudine to HIV-infected adult patients may result in decreased steady-state zidovudine concentrations. Administration of clarithromycin and zidovudine should be separated by at least two hours [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] . Calcium Channel Blockers: Verapamil Amlodipine Diltiazem Nifedipine Use With Caution Verapamil : Hypotension, bradyarrhythmias, and lactic acidosis have been observed in patients receiving concurrent verapamil, [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Amlodipine, Diltiazem : [See Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Nifedipine : Nifedipine is a substrate for CYP3A. There is potential of CYP3A-mediated interaction between nifedipine and clarithromycin. Hypotension and peripheral edema were observed when clarithromycin was taken concomitantly with nifedipine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Ergot Alkaloids: Ergotamine Dihydroergotamine Contraindicated Ergotamine, Dihydroergotamine : Postmarketing reports indicate that coadministration of clarithromycin with ergotamine or dihydroergotamine has been associated with acute ergot toxicity characterized by vasospasm and ischemia of the extremities and other tissues including the central nervous system [see Contraindications (4.6) ]. Gastroprokinetic Agents: Cisapride Contraindicated Cisapride : [See Contraindications (4.2) ] Lipid-lowering agents: Lomitapide Lovastatin Simvastatin Atorvastatin Pravastatin Fluvastatin Contraindicated Use With Caution No Dose Adjustment Lomitapide, Lovastatin, Simvastatin: Clarithromycin may increase the exposure of these drugs by inhibition of CYP3A metabolism, thereby increasing the risk of toxicities from these drugs [see Contraindications (4.5) and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Atorvastatin, Pravastatin, Fluvastatin: [See Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Hypoglycemic Agents: Nateglinide Pioglitazone Repaglinide Rosiglitazone Insulin Use With Caution Nateglinide, Pioglitazone, Repaglinide, Rosiglitazone : [See Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] Insulin : [See Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] Immunosuppressants: Cyclosporine Tacrolimus Use With Caution Cyclosporine : There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with cyclosporine. Tacrolimus : There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with tacrolimus. Phosphodiesterase inhibitors: Sildenafil Tadalafil Vardenafil Use With Caution Sildenafil, Tadalafil, Vardenafil : Each of these phosphodiesterase inhibitors is primarily metabolized by CYP3A, and CYP3A will be inhibited by concomitant administration of clarithromycin. Proton Pump Inhibitors: Omeprazole No Dose Adjustment Omeprazole : The mean 24-hour gastric pH value was 5.2 when omeprazole was administered alone and 5.7 when coadministered with clarithromycin as a result of increased omeprazole exposures [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] (see also Omeprazole under “Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin” in the table below). Xanthine Derivatives: Theophylline Use With Caution Theophylline : Clarithromycin use in patients who are receiving theophylline may be associated with an increase of serum theophylline concentrations [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] . Triazolobenzodiazepines and Other Related Benzodiazepines: Midazolam Alprazolam Triazolam Temazepam Nitrazepam Lorazepam Use With Caution No Dose Adjustment Midazolam : When oral midazolam is co-administered with clarithromycin, dose adjustments may be necessary and possible prolongation and intensity of effect should be anticipated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] . Triazolam, Alprazolam : Caution and appropriate dose adjustments should be considered when triazolam or alprazolam is co-administered with clarithromycin. Temazepam, Nitrazepam, Lorazepam : For benzodiazepines which are not metabolized by CYP3A (e.g., temazepam, nitrazepam, lorazepam), a clinically important interaction with clarithromycin is unlikely. Cytochrome P450 Inducers: Rifabutin Use With Caution Rifabutin : Concomitant administration of rifabutin and clarithromycin resulted in an increase in rifabutin, and decrease in clarithromycin serum levels together with an increased risk of uveitis (see Rifabutin under “Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin” in the table below). Other Drugs Metabolized by CYP3A: Alfentanil Bromocriptine Cilostazol Methylprednisole Vinblastine Phenobarbital St. Drugs that Affect Clarithromycin Drug(s) that Affect the Pharmacokinetics of Clarithromycin Recommendation Comments Antifungals: Itraconazole Use With Caution Itraconazole : Itraconazole may increase the plasma concentrations of clarithromycin. Patients taking itraconazole and clarithromycin concomitantly should be monitored closely for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged adverse reactions (see also Itraconazole under “Drugs That Are Affected By Clarithromycin” in the table above). Antivirals: Atazanavir Ritonavir (in patients with decreased renal function) Saquinavir (in patients with decreased renal function) Etravirine Saquinavir (in patients with normal renal function) Ritonavir (in patients with normal renal function) Use With Caution No Dose Adjustment Atazanavir: When clarithromycin is co-administered with atazanavir, the dose of clarithromycin should be decreased by 50% [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Since concentrations of 14-OH clarithromycin are significantly reduced when clarithromycin is co-administered with atazanavir, alternative antibacterial therapy should be considered for indications other than infections due to Mycobacterium avium complex. Ritonavir : Since concentrations of 14-OH clarithromycin are significantly reduced when clarithromycin is co-administered with ritonavir, alternative antibacterial therapy should be considered for indications other than infections due to Mycobacterium avium [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] . Saquinavir : When saquinavir is co-administered with ritonavir, consideration should be given to the potential effects of ritonavir on clarithromycin (refer to ritonavir above) [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] . Etravirine: Clarithromycin exposure was decreased by etravirine; however, concentrations of the active metabolite, 14-OH-clarithromycin, were increased. Proton Pump Inhibitors: Omeprazole Use With Caution Omeprazole : Clarithromycin concentrations in the gastric tissue and mucus were also increased by concomitant administration of omeprazole [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] . There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with rifabutin (see Rifabutin under “Drugs That Are Affected By Clarithromycin” in the table above). Co-administration of clarithromycin can alter the concentrations of other drugs. (4 , 5.2 , 5.4 , 7 ) Antipsychotics: Pimozide Quetiapine Contraindicated Pimozide: [See Contraindications (4.2) ] Quetiapine : Quetiapine is a substrate for CYP3A4, which is inhibited by clarithromycin. Antispasmodics: Tolterodine (patients deficient in CYP2D6 activity) Use With Caution Tolterodine : The primary route of metabolism for tolterodine is via. Gastroprokinetic Agents: Cisapride Contraindicated Cisapride : [See Contraindications (4.2) ] Lipid-lowering agents: Lomitapide Lovastatin Simvastatin Atorvastatin Pravastatin Fluvastatin Contraindicated Use With Caution No Dose Adjustment Lomitapide, Lovastatin, Simvastatin: Clarithromycin may increase the exposure of these drugs by inhibition of CYP3A metabolism, thereby increasing the risk of toxicities from these drugs [see Contraindications (4.5) and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Atorvastatin, Pravastatin, Fluvastatin: [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Hypoglycemic Agents: Nateglinide Pioglitazone Repaglinide Rosiglitazone Insulin Use With Caution Nateglinide, Pioglitazone, Repaglinide, Rosiglitazone : [See Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] Insulin : [See Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] Immunosuppressants: Cyclosporine Tacrolimus Use With Caution Cyclosporine : There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with cyclosporine. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Collated drug interaction information for the individual components in VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK and VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK is summarized below. Drug interaction studies with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK or VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK have not been conducted. These recommendations are based on either drug interaction trials or predicted interactions due to the expected magnitude of interaction and potential for serious adverse reactions or loss of efficacy [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Clarithromycin (a component of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK) is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Concomitant use of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK with a drug(s) primarily metabolized by CYP3A may cause elevations in CYP3A substrate drug's concentrations that could increase or prolong both therapeutic and adverse effects of the concomitant drug. Table 4: Effects of Other Drugs on VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK Strong or Moderate CYP3A Inducers Clinical Effect Vonoprazan and clarithromycin are CYP3A substrates. Strong or moderate CYP3A inducers may decrease exposure of vonoprazan and clarithromycin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may reduce the effectiveness of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Prevention or Management Avoid concomitant use with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Probenecid Clinical Effect Amoxicillin undergoes tubular secretion. Probenecid may increase amoxicillin exposure by blocking its renal tubular secretion, which may increase the risk of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK adverse reactions. Prevention or Management Closely monitor for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged adverse reactions associated with amoxicillin when used with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Allopurinol Clinical Effect Increase in the incidence of rashes is reported in patients receiving both allopurinol and amoxicillin together compared to patients receiving amoxicillin alone. It is not known whether this potentiation of amoxicillin rashes is due to allopurinol or the hyperuricemia present in these patients. Prevention or Management Discontinue allopurinol at the first appearance of skin rash when used concomitantly with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Omeprazole Clinical Effect Clarithromycin concentrations in the gastric tissue and mucus were increased by concomitant administration of omeprazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Prevention or Management Avoid concomitant use of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK with omeprazole. Itraconazole Clinical Effect Both clarithromycin and itraconazole are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A, potentially leading to a bi-directional drug interaction when administered concomitantly. VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK's use with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may lead to increases in clarithromycin exposure, which may increase the risk of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK adverse reactions. Prevention or Management Patients taking itraconazole with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK should be monitored closely for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged adverse reactions associated with itraconazole and clarithromycin. Antivirals Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a CYP3A4 substrate and inhibitor. Use of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK with antivirals that are CYP3A substrates, inducers, or CYP3A inhibitors may potentially lead to bi-directional drug interactions leading to alterations in exposure of clarithromycin and/or CYP3A substrates, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions or loss of effectiveness [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Prevention or Management Saquinavir (CYP3A substrate and inhibitor) Use VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK with caution. See saquinavir prescribing information for instructions when saquinavir (with or without ritonavir) is co-administered with clarithromycin. Ritonavir (CYP3A inhibitor) Use of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK with ritonavir is not recommended in patients with decreased renal function. Etravirine (CYP3A inducer) Avoid concomitant use with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Table 5: Effects of Other Drugs on VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK Strong or Moderate CYP3A Inducers Clinical Effect Vonoprazan is a CYP3A substrate. Strong or moderate CYP3A inducers may decrease vonoprazan exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may reduce the effectiveness of VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK. Prevention or Management Avoid concomitant use with VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK. Probenecid may increase amoxicillin exposure by blocking its renal tubular secretion, which may increase the risk of VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK adverse reactions. Prevention or Management Closely monitor for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged adverse reactions associated with amoxicillin when used with VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK. Prevention or Management Discontinue allopurinol at the first appearance of skin rash when used concomitantly with VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK. Table 6: Effects of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK on Other Drugs Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption Antiretrovirals Clinical Effect Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] , which may alter the absorption of antiretroviral drugs leading to changes in their safety and/or effectiveness. Prevention or Management Rilpivirine-containing Products Concomitant use with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK is contraindicated . Atazanavir Avoid concomitant use with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Nelfinavir Other Antiretroviral Drugs See the prescribing information of other antiretroviral drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption prior to concomitant use with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Other Drugs (e.g., iron salts, erlotinib, dasatinib, nilotinib, mycophenolate mofetil, ketoconazole/itraconazole) Clinical Effect Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] , which may decrease the absorption of drugs reducing their effectiveness. Prevention or Management See the prescribing information for other drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption. Certain CYP3A Substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious toxicities Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Clarithromycin and vonoprazan may increase exposure of CYP3A4 substrates, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates. There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with tacrolimus and cyclosporine. Prevention or Management Immunosuppressants: Tacrolimus, cyclosporine Frequent monitoring for concentrations and/or adverse reactions related to the substrate drugs when used with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Dosage reduction of substrate drugs may be needed. See prescribing information for the relevant substrate drugs. CYP2C19 Substrates (e.g., clopidogrel, citalopram, cilostazol) Clinical Effect Vonoprazan is a CYP2C19 inhibitor [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Vonoprazan may reduce plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and may cause reduction in platelet inhibition. Vonoprazan may increase exposure of CYP2C19 substrate drugs (e.g., citalopram, cilostazol). Prevention or Management Clopidogrel Carefully monitor the efficacy of clopidogrel and consider alternative anti-platelet therapy. Citalopram and Cilostazol Carefully monitor patients for adverse reactions associated with citalopram and cilostazol. See the prescribing information for dosage adjustments. Oral Anticoagulants Clinical Effect Abnormal prolongation of prothrombin time (increased INR) has been reported in patients receiving amoxicillin and oral anticoagulants. Prevention or Management Appropriate monitoring should be undertaken when anticoagulants are prescribed concurrently. Adjustments in the dose of oral anticoagulants may be necessary to maintain the desired level of anticoagulation. Chromogranin A (CgA) Test for Neuroendocrine Tumors Clinical Effect Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ], which increases chromogranin A (CgA) levels and may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors. Prevention or Management Assess CgA levels at least 4 weeks after VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK treatment and repeat the test if initial CgA levels are high. If serial tests are performed (e.g., for monitoring), use the same commercial laboratory for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary. Interaction with Secretin Stimulation Test Clinical Effect Hyper-response in gastrin secretion in response to secretin stimulation test, falsely suggesting gastrinoma. Prevention or Management Test should be performed at least 4 weeks after stopping VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK to allow gastrin levels to return to normal [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Glucose Tests Clinical Effect Amoxicillin is primarily excreted in the urine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . High urine concentrations of ampicillin or amoxicillin may cause false-positive results when using glucose tests based on the Benedict's copper reduction reaction that determines the amount of reducing substances like glucose in the urine. Prevention or Management Use a test based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions when testing for glucose in the urine of patients treated with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Antiarrhythmics Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Clarithromycin may increase exposure of antiarrhythmic drugs that are CYP3A substrates, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates including cardiac arrhythmias (e.g., torsades de pointes ). Prevention or Management Disopyramide Avoid concomitant use with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor patients for QTc prolongation and changes in blood glucose levels. Amiodarone Avoid concomitant use with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor patients for QTc prolongation. Dofetilide Procainamide Sotalol Quinidine Colchicine Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is an inhibitor of CYP3A and the efflux transporter, P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Colchicine is a substrate of CYP3A and P-gp. Clarithromycin increases exposure of colchicine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to colchicine. Prevention or Management Concomitant use of colchicine with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. If co-administration of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK and colchicine is necessary in patients with normal renal or hepatic function, carefully monitor patients for clinical symptoms of colchicine toxicity and refer to the colchicine prescribing information for recommendations on dosage reduction. Antipsychotics Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Clarithromycin may increase exposure of antipsychotic drugs that are CYP3A substrates, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates including the risk of somnolence, orthostatic hypotension, altered state of consciousness, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or cardiac arrhythmias (QT prolongation, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, and torsades de pointes ). Prevention or Management Pimozide Concomitant use with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK is contraindicated. Lurasidone Concomitant use with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK is contraindicated. Quetiapine Refer to quetiapine prescribing information for recommendations on dosage reduction if co-administered with CYP3A4 inhibitors such as clarithromycin. Tolterodine (patients deficient in CYP2D6 activity) Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. The primary route of metabolism for tolterodine is via CYP2D6. Clarithromycin may increase tolterodine exposure and the risk of adverse reactions related to tolterodine in patients deficient in CYP2D6 activity because tolterodine is metabolized via CYP3A in this subset of population. Prevention or Management Tolterodine 1 mg twice daily is recommended in patients deficient in CYP2D6 activity (poor metabolizers) when co-administered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as clarithromycin. Maraviroc (CYP3A substrate) Use VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK with caution. See the prescribing information of maraviroc for dosage recommendation when given with strong CYP3A inhibitors such as clarithromycin. Zidovudine Administration of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK and zidovudine should be separated by at least two hours. Benzodiazepines Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Clarithromycin may increase exposure of benzodiazepines that are CYP3A substrates, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Prevention or Management Midazolam Closely monitor patients for signs or symptoms of increased or prolonged central nervous system effects (e.g., somnolence and confusion) and refer to the CYP3A substrate prescribing information for dosage adjustments when used concomitantly with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Alprazolam Triazolam Calcium Channel Blockers Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Clarithromycin may increase exposure of calcium channel blockers that are CYP3A substrates, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates including hypotension, acute kidney injury, bradyarrhythmias, lactic acidosis, or peripheral edema. Prevention or Management Verapamil Use VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK with caution. Amlodipine Diltiazem Nifedipine Ergot Alkaloids Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Clarithromycin may increase exposure of ergot alkaloids that are CYP3A substrates, which may increase the risk of vasospasm and ischemia of the extremities and other tissues including the central nervous system [see Contraindications (4.2) ] . Prevention or Management Ergotamine Concomitant use with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK is contraindicated. Dihydroergotamine Hypoglycemic Agents Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Clarithromycin may increase exposure of hypoglycemic agents that are CYP3A substrates, which may increase the risk of hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Prevention or Management Nateglinide Closely monitor glucose levels when used concomitantly with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Pioglitazone Repaglinide Rosiglitazone Insulin Lipid-lowering Agents Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Clarithromycin may increase exposure of lipid-lowering drugs that are CYP3A substrates, thereby increasing the risk of toxicities from these drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Prevention or Management Lomitapide Concomitant use with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK is contraindicated. Lovastatin Simvastatin Atorvastatin Use VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK with caution. In situations where the concomitant use of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK with atorvastatin or pravastatin cannot be avoided, atorvastatin dose should not exceed 20 mg daily and pravastatin dose should not exceed 40 mg daily. Pravastatin Fluvastatin Use of a statin that is not dependent on CYP3A metabolism (e.g., fluvastatin) can be considered. It is recommended to prescribe the lowest registered dose if concomitant use cannot be avoided. Phosphodiesterase Inhibitors Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a strong CYP3A inhibitor. Clarithromycin may increase exposure of phosphodiesterase inhibitors that are CYP3A substrates, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates. Prevention or Management Sildenafil Avoid concomitant use with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. If concomitant use is unavoidable, see the prescribing information of the respective phosphodiesterase inhibitors for dosage recommendation when given with strong CYP3A inhibitors such as clarithromycin. Tadalafil Vardenafil Other CYP3A Based Interactions Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a substrate and strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Clarithromycin increases exposure of CYP3A substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Strong or moderate CYP3A inducers may decrease exposure of clarithromycin. There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with alfentanil, methylprednisolone, cilostazol, bromocriptine, vinblastine, phenobarbital, and St. John's Wort. Prevention or Management Use VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK with caution. P-glycoprotein (P-gp) Substrates: Digoxin Clinical Effect Clarithromycin is a P-gp inhibitor. Clarithromycin may increase exposure of P-gp substrates, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates, including potentially fatal arrhythmias. Prevention or Management Digoxin Carefully monitor serum concentrations and refer to the digoxin prescribing information for dosage adjustments when used concomitantly with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Drugs Metabolized by CYP450 Isoforms Other than CYP3A Clinical Effect Clarithromycin may increase exposure of drugs that are metabolized by CYP450 isoforms other than CYP3A by inhibiting their metabolism. There have been post-marketing reports of interactions of clarithromycin with drugs not thought to be metabolized by CYP3A. Prevention or Management Hexobarbital Use VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK with caution. Phenytoin Valproate Theophylline Clinical Effect Clarithromycin may increase exposure of theophylline (a xanthine derivative drug) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to theophylline. Prevention or Management Closely monitor serum theophylline concentrations in patients receiving high dosages of theophylline or with baseline concentrations in the upper therapeutic range when used concomitantly with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK. Table 7: Effects of VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK on Other Drugs Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption Antiretrovirals Clinical Effect Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] , which may alter the absorption of antiretroviral drugs leading to changes in their safety and/or effectiveness. Prevention or Management Rilpivirine-containing Products Concomitant use with VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK is contraindicated . Atazanavir Avoid concomitant use with VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK. Nelfinavir Other Antiretroviral Drugs See the prescribing information of other antiretroviral drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption prior to concomitant use with VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK. Certain CYP3A Substrates where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious toxicities Clinical Effect Vonoprazan is a weak CYP3A inhibitor [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Vonoprazan may increase exposure of CYP3A4 substrates, which may increase the risk of adverse reactions related to these substrates. Prevention or Management Immunosuppressants: Tacrolimus, cyclosporine Frequent monitoring for concentrations and/or adverse reactions related to the substrate drugs when used with VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK. CgA Test for Neuroendocrine Tumors Clinical Effect Vonoprazan reduces intragastric acidity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ], which increases CgA levels and may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors. Prevention or Management Assess CgA levels at least 4 weeks after VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK treatment and repeat the test if initial CgA levels are high. Prevention or Management Test should be performed at least 4 weeks after stopping VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK to allow gastrin levels to return to normal [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Prevention or Management Use a test based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions when testing for glucose in the urine of patients treated with VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK. Components of VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK and VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK have the potential for clinically important drug interactions. See Full Prescribing Information for important drug interactions with VOQUEZNA TRIPLE PAK and VOQUEZNA DUAL PAK. ( 4 , 5.2 , 7 ) DRUG INTERACTIONS Co-administration of clarithromycin is known to inhibit CYP3A, and a drug primarily metabolized by CYP3A may be associated with elevations in drug concentrations that could increase or prolong both therapeutic and adverse effects of the concomitant drug. 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Table 8: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Clarithromycin Drugs That Are Affected By Clarithromycin Drug(s) with Pharmacokinetics Affected by Clarithromycin Recommendation Comments Antiarrhythmics: Disopyramide Quinidine Dofetilide Amiodarone Sotalol Procainamide Not Recommended Disopyramide, Quinidine: There have been postmarketing reports of torsades de pointes occurring with concurrent use of clarithromycin and quinidine or disopyramide. Electrocardiograms should be monitored for QTc prolongation during coadministration of clarithromycin with these drugs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ] . Antifungals: Itraconazole Use With Caution Itraconazole: Both clarithromycin and itraconazole are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A, potentially leading to a bi-directional drug interaction when administered concomitantly (see also Itraconazole under “Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin” in the table below). Fluconazole No Dose Adjustment Fluconazole: [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] Anti-Gout Agents: Colchicine (in patients with renal or hepatic impairment) Contraindicated Colchicine: Colchicine is a substrate for both CYP3A and the efflux transporter, P-glycoprotein (Pgp). Colchicine (in patients with normal renal and hepatic function) Use With Caution Antipsychotics: Pimozide Contraindicated Pimozide: [See Contraindications (4.2) ] Quetiapine Quetiapine: Quetiapine is a substrate for CYP3A4, which is inhibited by clarithromycin. Lurasidone Lurasidone: [See Contraindications (4.7) ] Antispasmodics: Tolterodine (patients deficient in CYP2D6 activity) Use With Caution Tolterodine: The primary route of metabolism for tolterodine is via CYP2D6. Antivirals: Atazanavir Use With Caution Atazanavir: Both clarithromycin and atazanavir are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A, and there is evidence of a bi-directional drug interaction (see Atazanavir under “Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin” in the table below) [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] . Saquinavir (in patients with decreased renal function) Saquinavir: Both clarithromycin and saquinavir are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A and there is evidence of a bi-directional drug interaction (see Saquinavir under “Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin” in the table below) [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] . Ritonavir Etravirine Ritonavir, Etravirine: (see Ritonavir and Etravirine under “Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin” in the table below) [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] . Boceprevir (in patients with normal renal function) Didanosine No Dose Adjustment Boceprevir: Both clarithromycin and boceprevir are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A, potentially leading to a bi-directional drug interaction when co-administered. Calcium Channel Blockers: Verapamil Use With Caution Verapamil: Hypotension, bradyarrhythmias, and lactic acidosis have been observed in patients receiving concurrent verapamil, [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Amlodipine Diltiazem Amlodipine, Diltiazem: [See Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Nifedipine Nifedipine: Nifedipine is a substrate for CYP3A. Ergot Alkaloids: Ergotamine Dihydroergotamine Contraindicated Ergotamine, Dihydroergotamine: Postmarketing reports indicate that coadministration of clarithromycin with ergotamine or dihydroergotamine has been associated with acute ergot toxicity characterized by vasospasm and ischemia of the extremities and other tissues including the central nervous system [see Contraindications (4.6) ] . Gastroprokinetic Agents: Cisapride Contraindicated Cisapride: [See Contraindications (4.2) ] Lipid-lowering agents: Lomitapide Lovastatin Simvastatin Contraindicated Lomitapide, Lovastatin, Simvastatin: Clarithromycin may increase the exposure of these drugs by inhibition of CYP3A metabolism, thereby increasing the risk of toxicities from these drugs [See Contraindications (4.5) and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Atorvastatin, Pravastatin, Fluvastatin: [See Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Atorvastatin Pravastatin Use With Caution Fluvastatin No Dose Adjustment Hypoglycemic Agents: Nateglinide Pioglitazone Repaglinide Rosiglitazone Use With Caution Nateglinide, Pioglitazone, Repaglinide, Rosiglitazone: [See Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] Insulin Insulin: [See Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] Immunosuppressants: Cyclosporine Use With Caution Cyclosporine: There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with cyclosporine. Proton Pump Inhibitors: Omeprazole No Dose Adjustment Omeprazole: The mean 24-hour gastric pH value was 5.2 when omeprazole was administered alone and 5.7 when coadministered with clarithromycin as a result of increased omeprazole exposures [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] (see also Omeprazole under “Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin” in the table below). Xanthine Derivatives: Theophylline Use With Caution Theophylline: Clarithromycin use in patients who are receiving theophylline may be associated with an increase of serum theophylline concentrations [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] . Triazolobenzodiazepines and Other Related Benzodiazepines: Midazolam Use With Caution Midazolam: When oral midazolam is co-administered with clarithromycin, dose adjustments may be necessary and possible prolongation and intensity of effect should be anticipated [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] . Cytochrome P450 Inducers: Rifabutin Use With Caution Rifabutin: Concomitant administration of rifabutin and clarithromycin resulted in an increase in rifabutin, and decrease in clarithromycin serum levels together with an increased risk of uveitis (see Rifabutin under “Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin” in the table below). Drugs that Affect Clarithromycin Drug(s) that Affect the Pharmacokinetics of Clarithromycin Recommendation Comments Antifungals: Itraconazole Use With Caution Itraconazole: Itraconazole may increase the plasma concentrations of clarithromycin. Antivirals: Atazanavir Use With Caution Atazanavir: When clarithromycin is co-administered with atazanavir, the dose of clarithromycin should be decreased by 50% [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Ritonavir (in patients with decreased renal function) Ritonavir: Since concentrations of 14-OH clarithromycin are significantly reduced when clarithromycin is co-administered with ritonavir, alternative antibacterial therapy should be considered for indications other than infections due to Mycobacterium avium [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] . Saquinavir (in patients with decreased renal function) Saquinavir: When saquinavir is co-administered with ritonavir, consideration should be given to the potential effects of ritonavir on clarithromycin (refer to ritonavir above) [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] . Saquinavir (in patients with normal renal function) No Dose Adjustment Ritonavir (in patients with normal renal function) Proton Pump Inhibitors: Omeprazole Use With Caution Omeprazole: Clarithromycin concentrations in the gastric tissue and mucus were also increased by concomitant administration of omeprazole [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ] . (4, 5.2, 5.4, 7) Electrocardiograms should be monitored for QTc prolongation during coadministration of clarithromycin with these drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Gastroprokinetic Agents: Cisapride Contraindicated Cisapride: [See Contraindications (4.2) ] Lipid-lowering agents: Lomitapide Lovastatin Simvastatin Contraindicated Lomitapide, Lovastatin, Simvastatin: Clarithromycin may increase the exposure of these drugs by inhibition of CYP3A metabolism, thereby increasing the risk of toxicities from these drugs [See Contraindications (4.5) and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Atorvastatin Pravastatin Use With Caution Atorvastatin, Pravastatin, Fluvastatin: [See Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Fluvastatin No Dose Adjustment Hypoglycemic Agents: Nateglinide Pioglitazone Repaglinide Rosiglitazone Use With Caution Nateglinide, Pioglitazone, Repaglinide, Rosiglitazone: [See Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] Insulin Insulin: [See Warnings and Precautions (5.4) and Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] Immunosuppressants: Cyclosporine Use With Caution Cyclosporine: There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with cyclosporine. Table 8: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Clarithromycin Drugs That Are Affected By Clarithromycin Drug(s) with Pharmacokinetics Affected by Clarithromycin Recommendation Comments Antiarrhythmics Disopyramide Quinidine Dofetilide Amiodarone Sotalol Procainamide Not Recommended Disopyramide, Quinidine: There have been postmarketing reports of torsades de pointes occurring with concurrent use of clarithromycin and quinidine or disopyramide. Electrocardiograms should be monitored for QTc prolongation during coadministration of clarithromycin with these drugs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. When clarithromycin and digoxin are co‑ administered, inhibition of Pgp by clarithromycin may lead to increased exposure of digoxin. Oral Anticoagulants Warfarin Use With Caution Oral anticoagulants: Spontaneous reports in the postmarketing period suggest that concomitant administration of clarithromycin and oral anticoagulants may potentiate the effects of the oral anticoagulants. Prothrombin times should be carefully monitored while patients are receiving clarithromycin and oral anticoagulants simultaneously [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. Antiepileptics Carbamazepine Use With Caution Carbamazepine: Concomitant administration of single doses of clarithromycin and carbamazepine has been shown to result in increased plasma concentrations of carbamazepine. Antifungals Itraconazole Use With Caution Itraconazole: Both clarithromycin and itraconazole are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A, potentially leading to a bi-directional drug interaction when administered concomitantly (see also Itraconazole under “Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin” in the table below). Fluconazole No Dose Adjustment Fluconazole: [ see Pharmacokinetics ( 12.3 ) ] Anti-Gout Agents Colchicine (in patients with renal or hepatic impairment) Contraindicated Colchicine: Colchicine is a substrate for both CYP3A and the efflux transporter, P-glycoprotein (Pgp). Colchicine (in patients with normal renal and hepatic function) Use With Caution The dose of colchicine should be reduced when co-administered with clarithromycin in patients with normal renal and hepatic function [ see Contraindications ( 4.4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) ]. Antipsychotics Pimozide Quetiapine Lurasidone Contraindicated Pimozide: [ see Contraindications ( 4.2 ) ] Quetiapine: Quetiapine is a substrate for CYP3A4, which is inhibited by clarithromycin. Co‑ administration with clarithromycin could result in increased quetiapine exposure and possible quetiapine related toxicities. Refer to quetiapine prescribing information for recommendations on dose reduction if co‑ administered with CYP3A4 inhibitors such as clarithromycin. Antivirals Atazanavir Use With Caution Atazanavir: Both clarithromycin and atazanavir are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A, and there is evidence of a bi-directional drug interaction (see Atazanavir under “Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin” in the table below) [ see Pharmacokinetics ( 12.3 ) ]. Saquinavir (in patients with decreased renal function) Saquinavir: Both clarithromycin and saquinavir are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A and there is evidence of a bi-directional drug interaction ( see Saquinavir under “Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin” in the table below) [ see Pharmacokinetics ( 12.3 ) ]. Ritonavir, Etravirine Ritonavir, Etravirine: (see Ritonavir and Etravirine under “Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin” in the table below) [ see Pharmacokinetics ( 12.3 ) ]. See Selzentry® prescribing information for dose recommendation when given with strong CYP3A inhibitors such as clarithromycin. Boceprevir (in patients with normal renal function) Didanosine No Dose Adjustment Boceprevir: Both clarithromycin and boceprevir are substrates and inhibitors of CYP3A, potentially leading to a bi-directional drug interaction when co‑ administered. No dose adjustments are necessary for patients with normal renal function (see Victrelis® prescribing information). Administration of clarithromycin and zidovudine should be separated by at least two hours [ see Pharmacokinetics ( 12.3 ) ]. Calcium Channel Blockers Verapamil Use With Caution Verapamil: Hypotension, bradyarrhythmias, and lactic acidosis have been observed in patients receiving concurrent verapamil [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) ]. Amlodipine, Diltiazem Amlodipine, Diltiazem: [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) ] Nifedipine Nifedipine: Nifedipine is a substrate for CYP3A. There is potential of CYP3A‑ mediated interaction between nifedipine and clarithromycin. Hypotension and peripheral edema were observed when clarithromycin was taken concomitantly with nifedipine [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) ]. Ergot Alkaloids Ergotamine Dihydroergotamine Contraindicated Ergotamine, Dihydroergotamine: Postmarketing reports indicate that coadministration of clarithromycin with ergotamine or dihydroergotamine has been associated with acute ergot toxicity characterized by vasospasm and ischemia of the extremities and other tissues including the central nervous system [ see Contraindications ( 4.6 ) ]. Gastroprokinetic Agents Cisapride Contraindicated Cisapride: [ see Contraindications ( 4.2 ) ] Lipid-lowering Agents Lomitapide Lovastatin Simvastatin Contraindicated Lomitapide, Lovastatin, Simvastatin: Clarithromycin may increase the exposure of these drugs by inhibition of CYP3A metabolism, thereby increasing the risk of toxicities from these drugs [ see Contraindications ( 4.5 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) ] Atorvastatin, Pravastatin, Fluvastatin: [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) ] Atorvastatin Pravastatin Use With Caution Fluvastatin No Dose Adjustment Hypoglycemic Agents Nateglinide Pioglitazone Repaglinide Rosiglitazone Use With Caution Nateglinide, Pioglitazone, Repaglinide, Rosiglitazone: [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ) ] Insulin Insulin: [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ) ] Immunosuppressants Cyclosporine Use With Caution Cyclosporine: There have been spontaneous or published reports of CYP3A based interactions of clarithromycin with cyclosporine. Phosphodiesterase inhibitors Sildenafil Tadalafil Vardenafil Use With Caution Sildenafil, Tadalafil, Vardenafil: Each of these phosphodiesterase inhibitors is primarily metabolized by CYP3A, and CYP3A will be inhibited by concomitant administration of clarithromycin. Proton Pump Inhibitors Omeprazole No Dose Adjustment Omeprazole: The mean 24-hour gastric pH value was 5.2 when omeprazole was administered alone and 5.7 when coadministered with clarithromycin as a result of increased omeprazole exposures [ see Pharmacokinetics ( 12.3 ) ] (see also Omeprazole under “Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin” in the table below). Xanthine Derivatives Theophylline Use With Caution Theophylline: Clarithromycin use in patients who are receiving theophylline may be associated with an increase of serum theophylline concentrations [ see Pharmacokinetics ( 12.3 ) ]. Triazolobenzodiazepines and Other Related Benzodiazepines Midazolam Use With Caution Midazolam: When oral midazolam is co‑ administered with clarithromycin, dose adjustments may be necessary and possible prolongation and intensity of effect should be anticipated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) and Pharmacokinetics ( 12.3 ) ]. Cytochrome P450 Inducers Rifabutin Use With Caution Rifabutin: Concomitant administration of rifabutin and clarithromycin resulted in an increase in rifabutin, and decrease in clarithromycin serum levels together with an increased risk of uveitis (see Rifabutin under “Drugs That Affect Clarithromycin” in the table below). Other Drugs Metabolized by CYP3A Alfentanil Bromocriptine Cilostazol Vinblastine Methylprednisolone Phenobarbital St. Other Drugs Metabolized by CYP450 Isoforms Other than CYP3A Hexobarbital Phenytoin Valproate Use With Caution There have been postmarketing reports of interactions of clarithromycin with drugs not thought to be metabolized by CYP3A, including hexobarbital, phenytoin, and valproate. Drugs that Affect Clarithromycin Drug(s) that Affect the Pharmacokinetics of Clarithromycin Recommendation Comments Antifungals Itraconazole Use With Caution Itraconazole: Itraconazole may increase the plasma concentrations of clarithromycin. Antivirals Atazanavir Use With Caution Atazanavir: When clarithromycin is co-administered with atazanavir, the dose of clarithromycin should be decreased by 50% [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Since concentrations of 14-OH clarithromycin are significantly reduced when clarithromycin is co‑ administered with atazanavir, alternative antibacterial therapy should be considered for indications other than infections due to Mycobacterium avium complex. Ritonavir (in patients with decreased renal function) Ritonavir: Since concentrations of 14-OH clarithromycin are significantly reduced when clarithromycin is co-administered with ritonavir, alternative antibacterial therapy should be considered for indications other than infections due to Mycobacterium avium [ see Pharmacokinetics ( 12.3 ) ]. Saquinavir (in patients with decreased renal function) Saquinavir: When saquinavir is co-administered with ritonavir, consideration should be given to the potential effects of ritonavir on clarithromycin (refer to ritonavir above) [ see Pharmacokinetics ( 12.3 ) ]. Saquinavir (in patients with normal renal function) Ritonavir (in patients with normal renal function) No Dose Adjustment Proton Pump Inhibitors Omeprazole Use With Caution Omeprazole: Clarithromycin concentrations in the gastric tissue and mucus were also increased by concomitant administration of omeprazole [ see Pharmacokinetics ( 12.3 ) ]. Miscellaneous Cytochrome P450 Inducers Efavirenz Nevirapine Rifampicin Rifabutin Rifapentine Use With Caution Inducers of CYP3A enzymes, such as efavirenz, nevirapine, rifampicin, rifabutin, and rifapentine will increase the metabolism of clarithromycin, thus decreasing plasma concentrations of clarithromycin, while increasing those of 14-OH-clarithromycin.

=== FLUOCINOLONE ACETONIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluocinolone Acetonide Topical Solution is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. INDICATION AND USAGE Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil, 0.01% is a low to medium potency corticosteroid indicated: In adult patients for the treatment of psoriasis of the scalp (Scalp Oil). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Derma-Smoothe/FS ® Scalp Oil is a corticosteroid indicated for the treatment of psoriasis of the scalp in adults. ( 1 ) DERMA-SMOOTHE/FS ® Scalp Oil is indicated for the treatment of psoriasis of the scalp in adults. INDICATIONS AND USAGE NEO-SYNALAR ® cream is indicated for the treatment of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses with secondary infection. It has not been demonstrated that this steroid-antibiotic combination provides greater benefit than the steroid component alone after 7 days of treatment (see WARNINGS section) . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE RETISERT ® is indicated for the treatment of chronic non-infectious uveitis affecting the posterior segment of the eye. RETISERT is a corticosteroid indicated for the treatment of chronic noninfectious uveitis affecting the posterior segment of the eye. (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is a corticosteroid indicated for the topical treatment of atopic dermatitis in adult patients ( 1.1 ) topical treatment of moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in pediatric patients 3 months and older for up to 4 weeks ( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use: Apply the least amount to cover affected areas. Discontinue when disease is controlled. ( 1.3 ) Do not use in the diaper area. ( 1.3 ) Do not use on the face, axillae, or groin. ( 1.3 , 6.2 , 8.4 ) 1.1 Adult Patients with Atopic Dermatitis Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is indicated for the topical treatment of atopic dermatitis in adult patients. 1.2 Pediatric Patients with Atopic Dermatitis Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is indicated for the topical treatment of moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in pediatric patients, 3 months and older for up to 4 weeks. Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients younger than 3 months of age have not been established. 1.3 Limitations of Use Apply the least amount of fluocinolone acetonide topical oil needed to cover the affected areas. As with other corticosteroids, fluocinolone acetonide topical oil should be discontinued when control of disease is achieved. Contact the physician if no improvement is seen within 2 weeks. Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil should not be applied to the diaper area; diapers or plastic pants may constitute occlusive use. Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil should not be used on the face, axillae, or groin unless directed by the physician. Application to intertriginous areas should be avoided due to the increased risk of local adverse reactions. [ see Adverse Reactions (6) and Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. INDICATION AND USAGE Fluocinolone acetonide oil, 0.01% is a low to medium potency corticosteroid indicated for the treatment of chronic eczematous external otitis in adults and pediatric patients 2 years and older. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluocinolone Acetonide Topical Solution USP, 0.01% is indicated for the relief of the inﬂammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Fluocinolone Acetonide Solution is generally applied to the affected area as a thin film from two to four times daily depending on the severity of the condition. In hairy sites, the hair should be parted to allow direct contact with the lesion. Occlusive dressing may be used for the management of psoriasis or recalcitrant conditions. If an infection develops, the use of occlusive dressings should be discontinued and appropriate antimicrobial therapy instituted. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil, 0.01% for scalp psoriasis in adults (Scalp Oil): For the treatment of scalp psoriasis, wet or dampen hair and scalp thoroughly. Apply a thin film of fluocinolone acetonide topical oil, 0.01% on the scalp, massage well and cover scalp with the supplied shower cap. Leave on overnight or for a minimum of 4 hours before washing off. Wash hair with regular shampoo and rinse thoroughly. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DERMA-SMOOTHE/FS Scalp Oil is for topical use only. Not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. Wet or dampen hair and scalp thoroughly. Apply a thin film of DERMA-SMOOTHE/FS Scalp Oil on the scalp, massage well and cover scalp with the supplied shower cap. Leave on overnight or for a minimum of 4 hours then wash hair with regular shampoo and rinse thoroughly. Use daily as needed. Discontinue DERMA-SMOOTHE/FS Scalp Oil when control of disease is achieved within 2 weeks, or contact the healthcare provider if no improvement is seen within 2 weeks. Do not use DERMA-SMOOTHE/FS Scalp Oil on the face unless directed by the healthcare provider. Do not apply to intertriginous areas due to the increased risk of local adverse reactions [see Adverse Reactions (6) ] . Do not apply to the diaper area; diapers or plastic pants may constitute occlusive use. [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] DERMA-SMOOTHE/FS Scalp Oil is not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. ( 2 ) Do not use on face or intertriginous areas. ( 2 ) Apply a thin film of DERMA-SMOOTHE/FS Scalp Oil on the wet scalp, massage well and cover scalp with the supplied shower cap. ( 2 ) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION NEO-SYNALAR ® cream is generally applied to the affected area as a thin film from two to four times daily depending on the severity of the condition. Since NEO-SYNALAR ® cream is a water-washable vanishing cream, it is easily applied and leaves no traces. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION RETISERT is surgically implanted into the posterior segment of the affected eye through a pars plana incision. (2.1) RETISERT is designed to release fluocinolone acetonide at a nominal initial rate of 0.6 mcg/day, decreasing over the first month to a steady state between 0.3-0.4 mcg/day over approximately 30 months. (2.1) Aseptic technique should be maintained at all times prior to and during the surgical implantation procedure. (2.2) 2.1 Dosing Information RETISERT is implanted into the posterior segment of the affected eye through a pars plana incision. The implant contains one tablet of 0.59 mg of fluocinolone acetonide. RETISERT is designed to release fluocinolone acetonide at a nominal initial rate of 0.6 mcg/day, decreasing over the first month to a steady state between 0.3-0.4 mcg/day over approximately 30 months. Following depletion of fluocinolone acetonide as evidenced by recurrence of uveitis, RETISERT may be replaced. 2.2 Handling of Implant Caution should be exercised in handling RETISERT in order to avoid damage to the implant, which may result in an increased rate of drug release from the implant. Thus, RETISERT should be handled only by the suture tab. Care should be taken during implantation and explantation to avoid sheer forces on the implant that could disengage the silicone cup reservoir (which contains a fluocinolone acetonide tablet) from the suture tab. Aseptic technique should be maintained at all times prior to and during the surgical implantation procedure. RETISERT should not be resterilized by any method. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. The dosing of fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is different for adult and pediatric patients. Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil is not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. ( 2 ) Adult patients: Apply to affected areas 3 times daily. ( 2.1 ) Pediatric patients: Moisten skin and apply to affected areas twice daily for up to 4 weeks. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Adult Patients with Atopic Dermatitis Apply fluocinolone acetonide topical oil as a thin film to the affected areas three times daily . 2.2 Pediatric Patients with Atopic Dermatitis Moisten skin and apply fluocinolone acetonide topical oil as a thin film to the affected areas twice daily for up to four weeks . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For the treatment of chronic eczematous external otitis, using the supplied ear-dropper, apply 5 drops of fluocinolone acetonide oil, 0.01% into the affected ear. To apply, tilt head to one side so that the ear is facing up. Then, gently pull the ear lobe backward and upward and apply 5 drops of fluocinolone acetonide oil, 0.01% into the ear. Keep head tilted for about a minute to allow fluocinolone acetonide oil, 0.01% to penetrate lower into the ear canal. Gently pat excess material dripping out of the ear using a clean cotton ball. Follow these instructions twice each day for 7 to 14 days. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Fluocinolone Acetonide Topical Solution USP, 0.01% is generally applied to the affected area as a thin film from two to four times daily depending on the severity of the condition. Occlusive dressings may be used for the management of psoriasis or recalcitrant conditions.
Warnings: WARNINGS If local infection should continue or become severe, or in the presence of systemic infection, appropriate systemic antibacterial therapy, based on susceptibility testing, should be considered. Because of the concern of nephrotoxicity and ototoxicity associated with neomycin, this combination product should not be used over a wide area or for extended periods of time. There are articles in the current medical literature that indicate an increase in the prevalence of persons sensitive to neomycin.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation. CONTRAINDICATIONS Fluocinolone acetonide topical oil, 0.01% is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation. This product contains refined peanut oil NF (see PRECAUTIONS section). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None. None. ( 4 ) This product should not be used in the external auditory canal if the eardrum is perforated. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Surgical placement of RETISERT is contraindicated in active viral, bacterial, mycobacterial and fungal infections of ocular structures. (4.1) 4.1 Viral, Bacterial, Mycobacterial and Fungal Infections of Ocular Structures Surgical placement of RETISERT is contraindicated in active viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva including epithelial herpes simplex keratitis (dendritic keratitis), vaccinia, and varicella, and also in active bacterial, mycobacterial or fungal infections of the eye. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Fluocinolone acetonide oil, 0.01% is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation. This product contains refined peanut oil NF (see PRECAUTIONS ).

=== HYDROCORTISONE ACETATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Anti-itch
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cortifoam ® is indicated as adjunctive therapy in the topical treatment of ulcerative proctitis of the distal portion of the rectum in patients who cannot retain hydrocortisone or other corticosteroid enemas. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydrocortisone acetate suppositories are indicated for use in inflamed hemorrhoids, post-irradiation (factitial) proctitis, as an adjunct in the treatment of chronic ulcerative colitis, cryptitis, other inflammatory conditions of anorectum, and pruritus ani. Uses ■ for temporary relief of minor skin irritations, itching and rashes due to eczema, insect bites, poison ivy, poison oak, poison sumac, soaps, detergents, cosmetics, jewelry, and for external genital, feminine and anal itching. Other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor INDICATIONS AND USAGE Topical corticosteroids are indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. INDICATIONS Product is used for the anti-inflammatory and anesthetic relief of itching, pain, soreness and discomfort due to hemorrhoids, anal fissures, pruritus ani and similar conditions of the anal area. INDICATIONS: The product is used for the anti-inflammatory and anesthetic relief of redness, pain, itching, and discoloration due to inflammation and skin burns. For the relief of redness, pain, itching, discoloration, inflammation and mild skin burns associated with radiation. For use after radiation treatment, cosmetic procedures, sun exposure, and for inflammatory skin conditions. INDICATIONS: Product is used for the anti-inflammatory and anesthetic relief of itching, pain, soreness and discomfort due to hemorrhoids, anal fissures, pruritus ani and similar conditions of the anal area. INDICATIONS AND USAGE: Topical corticosteroids are indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual dose is one applicatorful once or twice daily for two or three weeks, and every second day thereafter, administered rectally. Directions for use, below and on the carton, describe how to use the aerosol container and applicator. Satisfactory response usually occurs within five to seven days marked by a decrease in symptoms. Symptomatic improvement in ulcerative proctitis should not be used as the sole criterion for evaluating efficacy. Sigmoidoscopy is also recommended to judge dosage adjustment, duration of therapy, and rate of improvement. It Should Be Emphasized that Dosage Requirements are Variable and Must Be Individualized on the Basis of the Disease Under Treatment and the Response of the Patient. After a favorable response is noted, the proper maintenance dosage should be determined by decreasing the initial drug dosage in small decrements at appropriate time intervals until the lowest dosage which will maintain an adequate clinical response is reached. Situations which may make dosage adjustments necessary are changes in clinical status secondary to remissions or exacerbations in the disease process, the patient's individual drug responsiveness, and the effect of patient exposure to stressful situations not directly related to the disease entity under treatment. In this latter situation it may be necessary to increase the dosage of the corticosteroid for a period of time consistent with the patient's condition. If after long-term therapy the drug is to be stopped, it is recommended that it be withdrawn gradually rather than abruptly. Directions For Use (1) Shake foam container vigorously for 5-10 seconds before each use. Do not remove container cap during use of the product. (2) Hold container upright on a level surface and gently place the tip of the applicator onto the nose of the container cap. CONTAINER MUST BE HELD UPRIGHT TO OBTAIN PROPER FLOW OF MEDICATION. (3) Pull plunger past the fill line on the applicator barrel. (4) To fill applicator barrel, press down firmly on cap flanges, hold for 1 – 2 seconds and release. Pause 5 – 10 seconds to allow foam to expand in applicator barrel. Repeat until foam reaches fill line. Remove applicator from container cap. Allow some foam to remain on the applicator tip. A burst of air may come out of container with first pump. (5) Hold applicator firmly by barrel, making sure thumb and middle finger are positioned securely underneath and resting against barrel wings. Place index finger over the plunger. Gently insert tip into anus. Once in place, push plunger to expel foam, then withdraw applicator. CAUTION: Do not insert any part of the aerosol container directly into the anus. Apply to anus only with enclosed applicator. (6) After each use, applicator parts should be pulled apart for thorough cleaning with warm water. The container cap and underlying tip should also be pulled apart and rinsed to help prevent build-up of foam and possible blockage. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION FOR RECTAL ADMINISTRATION Detach one suppository from strip of suppositories. Hold suppository upright and carefully separate tabs at top opening and pull downward from the pointed end to expose the suppository. Remove the suppository from the pocket. Avoid excessive handling of suppository which is designed to melt at body temperature. Insert one suppository rectally, pointed end first. Insert one suppository in the rectum twice daily, morning and night for two weeks, in nonspecific proctitis. In more severe cases, one suppository three times a day or two suppositories twice daily. In factitial proctitis, the recommended duration of therapy is six to eight weeks or less, according to the response of the individual case. Directions ■ adults and children over 2 years of age ■ apply evenly to affected area no more than 3 to 4 times daily ■ children under 2 years of age■ do not use, consult a doctor ■ Adults ■ when practical, cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly ■ gently dry, patting or blotting with bathroom tissue or soft cloth before applying ■ apply externally to the area up to 6 times a daily or after a bowel movement ■ after application discard pad ■ do not flush in toilet DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Topical corticosteroids are generally applied to the affected area as a thin film three to four times daily depending on the severity of the condition. Occlusive dressings may be used for the management of psoriasis or recalcitrant conditions. If an infection develops, the use of occlusive dressings should be discontinued and appropriate antimicrobial therapy instituted. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply product to the affected area(s) twice daily or as directed by a physician. Product should not be used in excess of recommendations or for prolonged used in the anal canal. If the condition does not respond to repeated courses of product or should worsen, discontinue use and seek the advise of your physician. Products without applicators Remove the child-resistant cap and foil seal from the tube. Apply a thin film to the affected area. Replace the cap after use. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Apply product to the affected area(s) twice daily or as directed by a licensed healthcare practitioner. If the condition does not respond to repeated courses of product or should worsen, discontinue use and seek the advice of your physician. Wash hands before and after application. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Apply product to the affected area(s) twice daily or as directed by a physician. Product should not be used in excess of recommendations or for prolonged use in the anal canal. Products without Applicators: Remove the child-resistant cap and foil seal from the tube. Products with Single-Use Tubes and Applicators: Tear open one cleansing wipe packet (if the product kit contains such item), gently clean the affected area and discard the used cleansing wipe. Remove the child-resistant cap and foil seal from one tube and firmly screw one applicator onto the tube. Do not over tighten. Squeeze the tube to fill the applicator until a small amount of cream/gel comes out of and lubricates the applicator openings. Gently insert the applicator tip with attached tube into anal area. Continue squeezing the body of the tube as it is moved around the areas of discomfort, and lastly, around and in the anal opening (if directed by physician). Do not completely insert the applicator and tube into the anus or insert deep into the rectum. Do not insert a loose applicator tip into the anus or rectum. Once application is completed, both the tube and applicator should be gently removed and discarded. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For rectal administration. Detach one suppository from strip of suppositories. Hold suppository upright. Separate tabs at top opening and pull downward from the pointed end. Continue pulling downward to almost the full length of the suppository. Carefully remove the suppository from the pocket. Avoid excessive handling of the suppository which is designed to melt at body temperature. Insert suppository into the rectum with gentle pressure, pointed end first. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Topical corticosteroids are generally applied to the affected area as a thin film three to four times daily depending on the severity of the condition. For cleansing the anogenital area, apply with a tissue or cotton ball.
Warnings: WARNINGS General Do not insert any part of the aerosol container directly into the anus. Contents of the container are under pressure. Do not burn or puncture the aerosol container. Do not store at temperatures above 120°F. Because Cortifoam ® is not expelled, systemic hydrocortisone absorption may be greater from Cortifoam ® than from corticosteroid enema formulations. If there is not evidence of clinical or proctologic improvement within two or three weeks after starting Cortifoam ® therapy, or if the patient's condition worsens, discontinue the drug. Rare instances of anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in patients receiving corticosteroid therapy (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Cardio-renal Corticosteroids can cause elevation of blood pressure, salt and water retention, and increased excretion of potassium. These effects are less likely to occur with the synthetic derivatives except when used in large doses. Dietary salt restriction and potassium supplementation may be necessary. All corticosteroids increase calcium excretion. Literature reports suggest an apparent association between use of corticosteroids and left ventricular free wall rupture after a recent myocardial infarction; therefore, therapy with corticosteroids should be used with great caution in these patients. Endocrine Corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamicpituitary adrenal (HPA) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment. Metabolic clearance of corticosteroids is decreased in hypothyroid patients and increased in hyperthyroid patients. Changes in thyroid status of the patient may necessitate adjustment in dosage. Infections General Patients who are on corticosteroids are more susceptible to infections than are healthy individuals. There may be decreased resistance and inability to localize infection when corticosteroids are used. Infection with any pathogen (viral, bacterial, fungal, protozoan or helminthic) in any location of the body may be associated with the use of corticosteroids alone or in combination with other immunosuppressive agents. These infections may be mild to severe. With increasing doses of corticosteroids, the rate of occurrence of infectious complications increases. Corticosteroids may also mask some signs of current infection. Fungal infections Corticosteroids may exacerbate systemic fungal infections and therefore should not be used in the presence of such infections unless they are needed to control drug reactions. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions, Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents ). Special pathogens Latent disease may be activated or there may be an exacerbation of intercurrent infections due to pathogens, including those caused by Amoeba, Candida, Cryptococcus, Mycobacterium, Nocardia, Pneumocystis, and Toxoplasma. It is recommended that latent amebiasis or active amebiasis be ruled out before initiating corticosteroid therapy in any patient who has spent time in the tropics or in any patient with unexplained diarrhea. Similarly, corticosteroids should be used with great care in patients with known or suspected Strongyloides (thread worm) infestation. In such patients, corticosteroid-induced immunosuppression may lead to Strongyloides hyperinfection and dissemination with widespread larval migration, often accompanied by severe enterocolitis and potentially fatal gram-negative septicemia. Corticosteroids should not be used in cerebral malaria. Tuberculosis If corticosteroids are indicated in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity, close observation is necessary as reactivation of the disease may occur. During prolonged corticosteroid therapy, these patients should receive chemoprophylaxis. Vaccination Administration of live or live, attenuated vaccines is contraindicated in patients receiving immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids. Killed or inactivated vaccines may be administered. However, the response to such vaccines cannot be predicted. Immunization procedures may be undertaken in patients who are receiving corticosteroids as replacement therapy, e.g., for Addison's disease. Viral infections Chickenpox and measles can have a more serious or even fatal course in pediatric and adult patients on corticosteroids. In pediatric and adult patients who have not had these diseases, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If exposed to measles, prophylaxis with immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents should be considered. Ophthalmic Use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts, glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves, and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to bacteria, fungi, or viruses. If a patient presents with symptoms such as blurred vision or other visual disturbances, the patient should be considered for referral to an ophthalmologist for evaluation. The use of oral corticosteroids is not recommended in the treatment of optic neuritis and may lead to an increase in the risk of new episodes. Corticosteroids should not be used in active ocular herpes simplex. Warnings For external use only WARNINGS For external use only. Not for ophthalmic use. Product could harm small children if chewed or swallowed. Keep out of reach of children. Topical formulations of lidocaine may be absorbed to a greater extent through mucous membranes and abraded, fissured or irritated skin than through intact skin. Product should not be ingested or applied into the mouth, inside of the nose or in the eyes. Product should not be used in the ears. Any situation where lidocaine penetrates beyond the tympanic membrane into the middle ear is contraindicted because of ototoxicty associated with lidocaine observed in animals when instilled in the middle ear. Product should not come into contact with the eye or be applied into the eye because of the risk of severe eye irritation and the loss of eye surface sensation, which reduces protective reflexes and can lead to corneal irritation and possibly abrasion. If eye contact occurs, rinse out the eye immediately with saline or water and protect the eye surface until sensation is restored. WARNINGS: CONCERNS RELATED TO ADVERSE EFFECTS: Methemoglobinemia: Has been reported with local anesthetics; clinically significant methemoglobinemia requires immediate treatment along with discontinuation of the anesthetic and other oxidizing agents. Onset may be immediate or delayed (hours) after anesthetic exposure. Patients with G6PD deficiency, congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia, cardiac or pulmonary compromise, exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites, or infants <6 months of age are more susceptible and should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia (including pale, gray, or blue-colored skin (cyanosis), headache, rapid pulse, shortness of breath, lightheadedness, fatigue). WARNINGS: For external use only. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days. Do not apply to wounds or damaged skin. Do not use in large quantities, particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Any situation where lidocaine penetrates beyond the tympanic membrane into the middle ear is contraindicated because of ototoxicity associated with lidocaine observed in animals when instilled in the middle ear. PRECAUTIONS: For external use only. Product and used applicators could harm small children if chewed or swallowed.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Cortifoam ® is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any components of this product. Local contraindications to the use of intrarectal steroids include obstruction, abscess, perforation, peritonitis, fresh intestinal anastomoses, extensive fistulas and sinus tracts. CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydrocortisone acetate suppositories are contraindicated in those patients having a history of hypersensitivity to hydrocortisone acetate or any of the components. CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation. CONTRAINDICATIONS Product should not be used in patients with a history of sensitivity to any of its ingredients or adverse reactions to lidocaine or amide anesthetics, which usually do not cross-react with "caine" ester type anesthetics. If excessive irritation and significant worsening occur, discontinue use and seek the advice of your physician. Product and topical lidocaine should be used cautiously in those with impaired liver function, as well as the very ill or very elderly and those with significant liver disease. Product should be used with caution in patients receiving antiarrhythmic drugs of Class I since the adverse effects are additive and generally synergistic. Product is contraindicated for tuberculous or fungal lesions of skin vaccinia, varicella and acute herpes simplex. Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any components of the preparation. CONTRAINDICATIONS: Product should not be used in patients with a history of sensitivity to any of its ingredients or adverse reactions to lidocaine or amide anesthetics, which usually do not cross-react with “caine” ester type anesthetics. Product is contraindicated for tuberculous or fungal lesions or skin vaccinia, varicella and acute herpes simplex. Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation. CONTRAINDICATIONS: Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Aminoglutethimide: Aminoglutethimide may lead to a loss of corticosteroid-induced adrenal suppression. Amphotericin B injection and potassium-depleting agents: When corticosteroids are administered concomitantly with potassium-depleting agents (i.e., amphotericin B, diuretics), patients should be observed closely for development of hypokalemia. There have been cases reported in which concomitant use of amphotericin B and hydrocortisone was followed by cardiac enlargement and congestive heart failure. Antibiotics: Macrolide antibiotics have been reported to cause a significant decrease in corticosteroid clearance. Anticholinesterases: Concomitant use of anticholinesterase agents and corticosteroids may produce severe weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. If possible, anticholinesterase agents should be withdrawn at least 24 hours before initiating corticosteroid therapy. Anticoagulants, oral: Coadministration of corticosteroids and warfarin result in inhibition of response to warfarin. Therefore, coagulation indices should be monitored to maintain the desired anticoagulant effect. Antidiabetics: Because corticosteroids may increase blood glucose concentrations, dosage adjustments of antidiabetic agents may be required. Antitubercular drugs: Serum concentrations of isoniazid may be decreased. Cholestyramine: Cholestyramine may increase the clearance of corticosteroids. Cyclosporine: Increased activity of both cyclosporine and corticosteroids may occur when the two are used concurrently. Convulsions have been reported with this concurrent use. Digitalis glycosides: Patients on digitalis glycosides may be at increased risk of arrhythmias due to hypokalemia. Estrogens, including oral contraceptives: Estrogens may decrease the hepatic metabolism of certain corticosteroids, thereby increasing their effect. Hepatic Enzyme Inducers (e.g., barbiturates, phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin): Drugs which induce hepatic microsomal drug metabolizing enzyme activity may enhance the metabolism of corticosteroids and require that the dosage of the corticosteroid be increased. Ketoconazole: Ketoconazole has been reported to decrease the metabolism of certain corticosteroids by up to 60%, leading to an increased risk of corticosteroids side effects. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDS): Concomitant use of aspirin (or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents) and corticosteroids increases the risk of gastrointestinal side effects. Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia. The clearance of salicylates may be increased with concurrent use of corticosteroids. Skin tests: Corticosteroids may suppress reactions to skin tests. Vaccines: Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy may exhibit a diminished response to toxoids and live or inactivated vaccines due to inhibition of antibody response. Corticosteroids may also potentiate the replication of some organisms contained in live attenuated vaccines. Routine administration of vaccines or toxoids should be deferred until corticosteroid therapy is discontinued if possible (see WARNINGS, Infections, Vaccination ).

=== PSEUDOEPHEDRINE HCL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Expectorant and Nasal Decongestant Purposes Pain reliever/fever reducer Nasal decongestant Purposes Pain reliever/Fever reducer Antihistamine Cough suppressant Nasal decongestant Purpose Nasal decongestant
Indications: Uses helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to: common cold hay fever upper respiratory allergies temporarily restores freer breathing through the nose promotes nasal and/or sinus drainage temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms associated with the common cold or flu: headache sinus pressure nasal congestion minor body aches and pains fever Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to a common cold or flu: headache minor aches and pains minor sore throat pain runny nose cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation nasal and sinus congestion temporarily reduces fever Uses • temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure • temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to the common cold, hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies Uses temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to the common cold, hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure
Dosage: Directions do not crush, chew, or break tablet take with a full glass of water this product can be administered without regard for timing of meals adults and children 12 years and older: 2 tablets every 12 hours; not more than 4 tablets in 24 hours children under 12 years of age: do not use Directions ● do not take more than directed ● the smallest effective dose should be used ● adults and children 12 years of age and over: ● take 1 capsule every 4 to 6 hours while symptoms persist. If symptoms do not respond to 1 capsule, 2 capsules may be used. ● do not use more than 6 capsules in any 24-hour period unless directed by a doctor ● children under 12 years of age: do not use Other information each capsule contains: potassium 20 mg store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F). Avoid excessive heat above 40°C (104°F). read all warnings and directions before use. Keep carton. Directions do not use more than directed measure the dose correctly using the enclosed dosing cup adults and children 12 years of age and over: take every 6 hours in dosing cup provided, while symptoms persist do not take more than 3 doses (90 mL) in 24 hours unless directed by a doctor children under 12 years of age: do not use Age Dose adults and children 12 years of age and over 30 mL every 6 hours children under 12 years of age do not use Directions adults and children 12 years and over • take 2 tablets every 4 to 6 hours • do not take more than 8 tablets in 24 hours children ages 6 to 11 years • take 1 tablet every 4 to 6 hours • do not take more than 4 tablets in 24 hours children under 6 years do not use this product in children under 6 years of age Directions adults and children 12 years and over take 1 tablet every 12 hours do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours children under 12 years do not use this product in children under 12 years of age Directions adults and children 12 years and over take 2 tablets every 4 to 6 hours; do not take more than 8 tablets in 24 hours children ages 6 to 11 years take 1 tablet every 4 to 6 hours; do not take more than 4 tablets in 24 hours children under 6 years do not use Directions do not crush, chew, or break tablet take with a full glass of water this product can be administered without regard for timing of meals adults and children 12 years and older: 1 tablet every 12 hours; not more than 2 tablets in 24 hours children under 12 years of age: do not use
Warnings: Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product. Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease high blood pressure thyroid disease diabetes trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema cough accompanied by too much phlegm (mucus) When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask doctor if you get nervous, dizzy, or sleepless symptoms do not get better within 7 days, come back or occur with a fever, rash, or persistent headache. These could be signs of a serious illness. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Warnings Allergy alert: Ibuprofen may cause a severe allergic reaction, especially in people allergic to aspirin. Symptoms may include: hives facial swelling asthma (wheezing) shock skin reddening rash blisters If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Stomach bleeding warning: This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you: are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs [aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others] have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product take more or for a longer time than directed Heart attack and stroke warning NSAIDs, except aspirin, increase the risk of heart attack, heart failure, and stroke. These can be fatal. The risk is higher if you use more than directed or for longer than directed. Warnings Liver warning: This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Sore throat warning: If sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting consult a doctor promptly. Do not use in a child under 12 years of age if you are allergic to acetaminophen with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen, ask a doctor or pharmacist. if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease heart disease high blood pressure thyroid disease diabetes glaucoma trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking, asthma or emphysema Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage avoid alcoholic drinks marked drowsiness may occur alcohol, sedatives and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery excitability may occur, especially in children Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occurs pain, cough or nasal congestion gets worse or lasts more than 7 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts These could be signs of a serious condition. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Prompt medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage Stop use and ask a doctor if • nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occur • symptoms do not improve within 7 days or occur with a fever If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Warnings Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease diabetes thyroid disease high blood pressure difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage. Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occur symptoms do not improve within 7 days or occur with fever If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Ask a doctor before use if you have thyroid disease diabetes heart disease high blood pressure difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage.

=== RIZATRIPTAN BENZOATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE MAXALT ® and MAXALT-MLT ® are indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults and in pediatric patients 6 to 17 years old. Limitations of Use MAXALT should only be used where a clear diagnosis of migraine has been established. If a patient has no response for the first migraine attack treated with MAXALT, the diagnosis of migraine should be reconsidered before MAXALT is administered to treat any subsequent attacks. MAXALT is not indicated for use in the management of hemiplegic or basilar migraine [see Contraindications (4) ] . MAXALT is not indicated for the prevention of migraine attacks. Safety and effectiveness of MAXALT have not been established for cluster headache. MAXALT is a serotonin (5-HT) 1B/1D receptor agonist (triptan) indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults and in pediatric patients 6 to 17 years of age ( 1 ) Limitations of Use : Use only after clear diagnosis of migraine has been established ( 1 ) Not indicated for the prophylactic therapy of migraine ( 1 ) Not indicated for the treatment of cluster headache ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Rizatriptan benzoate tablets are indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults and in pediatric patients 6 to 17 years old. Limitations of Use Rizatriptan benzoate tablets should only be used where a clear diagnosis of migraine has been established. If a patient has no response for the first migraine attack treated with rizatriptan benzoate tablets, the diagnosis of migraine should be reconsidered before rizatriptan benzoate tablets are administered to treat any subsequent attacks. Rizatriptan benzoate tablets are not indicated for use in the management of hemiplegic or basilar migraine [see Contraindications (4) ] . Rizatriptan benzoate tablets are not indicated for the prevention of migraine attacks. Safety and effectiveness of rizatriptan benzoate tablets have not been established for cluster headache. Rizatriptan benzoate is a serotonin (5-HT) 1B/1D receptor agonist (triptan) indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults and in pediatric patients 6 to 17 years of age (1) Limitations of Use : Use only after clear diagnosis of migraine has been established (1) Not indicated for the prophylactic therapy of migraine (1) Not indicated for the treatment of cluster headache (1) Rizatriptan benzoate tablets are indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults and in pediatric patients 6 to 17 years old. Rizatriptan benzoate tablets are not indicated for use in the management of hemiplegic or basilar migraine [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4)]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Rizatriptan benzoate orally disintegrating tablets are indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults and in pediatric patients 6 to 17 years old. Limitations of Use Rizatriptan benzoate orally disintegrating tablets should only be used where a clear diagnosis of migraine has been established. If a patient has no response for the first migraine attack treated with rizatriptan benzoate orally disintegrating tablets, the diagnosis of migraine should be reconsidered before rizatriptan benzoate orally disintegrating tablets are administered to treat any subsequent attacks. Rizatriptan benzoate orally disintegrating tablets are not indicated for use in the management of hemiplegic or basilar migraine [see Contraindications (4) ] . Rizatriptan benzoate orally disintegrating tablets are not indicated for the prevention of migraine attacks. Safety and effectiveness of rizatriptan benzoate orally disintegrating tablets have not been established for cluster headache. Rizatriptan benzoate tablets are a serotonin (5-HT) 1B/1D receptor agonist (triptan) indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults and in pediatric patients 6 to 17 years of age( 1 ) Limitations of Use : Use only after clear diagnosis of migraine has been established ( 1 ) Not indicated for the prophylactic therapy of migraine ( 1 ) Not indicated for the treatment of cluster headache ( 1 )
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Although rizatriptan benzoate 5 mg tablets and orally disintegrating tablets are available in the marketplace, MAXALT Tablets and MAXALT-MLT Orally Disintegrating Tablets are no longer marketed in the 5 mg strength. Adults: 5 or 10 mg single dose; separate repeat doses by at least two hours; maximum dose in a 24-hour period: 30 mg ( 2.1 ) Pediatric patients 6 to 17 years: 5 mg single dose in patients less than 40 kg (88 lb); 10 mg single dose in patients 40 kg (88 lb) or more ( 2.2 ) Adjust dose if co-administered with propranolol ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Dosing Information in Adults The recommended starting dose of rizatriptan benzoate is either 5 mg or 10 mg for the acute treatment of migraines in adults. The 10-mg dose may provide a greater effect than the 5-mg dose, but may have a greater risk of adverse reactions [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Redosing in Adults Although the effectiveness of a second dose or subsequent doses has not been established in placebo-controlled trials, if the migraine headache returns, a second dose may be administered 2 hours after the first dose. The maximum daily dose should not exceed 30 mg in any 24-hour period. The safety of treating, on average, more than four headaches in a 30-day period has not been established. 2.2 Dosing Information in Pediatric Patients (Age 6 to 17 Years) Dosing in pediatric patients is based on the patient's body weight. The recommended dose of rizatriptan benzoate is 5 mg in patients weighing less than 40 kg (88 lb), and 10 mg in patients weighing 40 kg (88 lb) or more. The efficacy and safety of treatment with more than one dose of rizatriptan benzoate within 24 hours in pediatric patients 6 to 17 years of age have not been established. 2.3 Administration of MAXALT-MLT Orally Disintegrating Tablets For MAXALT-MLT Orally Disintegrating Tablets, administration with liquid is not necessary. Orally disintegrating tablets are packaged in a blister within an outer aluminum pouch and patients should not remove the blister from the outer pouch until just prior to dosing. The blister pack should then be peeled open with dry hands and the orally disintegrating tablet placed on the tongue, where it will dissolve and be swallowed with the saliva. 2.4 Dosage Adjustment for Patients on Propranolol Adult Patients In adult patients taking propranolol, only the 5-mg dose of rizatriptan benzoate is recommended, up to a maximum of 3 doses in any 24-hour period (15 mg) [see Drug Interactions (7.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Pediatric Patients For pediatric patients weighing 40 kg (88 lb) or more, taking propranolol, only a single 5-mg dose of rizatriptan benzoate is recommended (maximum dose of 5 mg in a 24-hour period). Rizatriptan benzoate should not be prescribed to propranolol-treated pediatric patients who weigh less than 40 kg (88 lb) [see Drug Interactions (7.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults: 5 mg or 10 mg single dose; separate repeat doses by at least two hours; maximum dose in a 24-hour period: 30 mg (2.1) Pediatric patients 6 to 17 years: 5 mg single dose in patients less than 40 kg (88 lb); 10 mg single dose in patients 40 kg (88 lb) or more ( 2.2 ) Adjust dose if co-administered with propranolol (2.4) 2.1 Dosing Information in Adults The recommended starting dose of rizatriptan benzoate tablets is either 5 mg or 10 mg for the acute treatment of migraines in adults. The 10 mg dose may provide a greater effect than the 5 mg dose, but may have a greater risk of adverse reactions [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . The recommended dose of rizatriptan benzoate tablets is 5 mg in patients weighing less than 40 kg (88 lb), and 10 mg in patients weighing 40 kg (88 lb) or more. The efficacy and safety of treatment with more than one dose of rizatriptan benzoate tablets within 24 hours in pediatric patients 6 to 17 years of age have not been established. 2.4 Dosage Adjustment for Patients on Propranolol Adult Patients In adult patients taking propranolol, only the 5 mg dose of rizatriptan benzoate tablets is recommended, up to a maximum of 3 doses in any 24-hour period (15 mg) [see Drug Interactions (7.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Pediatric Patients For pediatric patients weighing 40 kg (88 lb) or more, taking propranolol, only a single 5 mg dose of rizatriptan benzoate tablets is recommended (maximum dose of 5 mg in a 24-hour period). Rizatriptan benzoate tablets should not be prescribed to propranolol-treated pediatric patients who weigh less than 40 kg (88 lb) [see Drug Interactions (7.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.1 Dosing Information in Adults The recommended starting dose of rizatriptan benzoate tablets is either 5 mg or 10 mg for the acute treatment of migraines in adults. The 10 mg dose may provide a greater effect than the 5 mg dose, but may have a greater risk of adverse reactions [see CLINICAL STUDIES (14.1)]. 2.4 Dosage Adjustment for Patients on Propranolol Adult Patients In adult patients taking propranolol, only the 5 mg dose of rizatriptan benzoate tablets is recommended, up to a maximum of 3 doses in any 24-hour period (15 mg) [see DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.1) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. Rizatriptan benzoate tablets should not be prescribed to propranolol-treated pediatric patients who weigh less than 40 kg (88 lb) [see DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.1) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults: 5 mg or 10 mg single dose; separate repeat doses by at least two hours; maximum dose in a 24-hour period: 30 mg (2.1) Pediatric patients 6 to 17 years: 5 mg single dose in patients less than 40 kg (88 lb); 10 mg single dose in patients 40 kg (88 lb) or more (2.2) Adjust dose if co-administered with propranolol (2.4) 2.1 Dosing Information in Adults The recommended starting dose of rizatriptan benzoate orally disintegrating tablets is either 5 mg or 10 mg for the acute treatment of migraines in adults. The recommended dose of rizatriptan benzoate orally disintegrating tablets is 5 mg in patients weighing less than 40 kg (88 lb), and 10 mg in patients weighing 40 kg (88 lb) or more. The efficacy and safety of treatment with more than one dose of rizatriptan benzoate orally disintegrating tablets within 24 hours in pediatric patients 6 to 17 years of age have not been established. 2.3 Administration of Rizatriptan Benzoate Orally Disintegrating Tablets For rizatriptan benzoate orally disintegrating tablets, administration with liquid is not necessary. Orally disintegrating tablets are packaged in a blister within a carton and patients should not remove the blister from the carton until just prior to dosing. 2.4 Dosage Adjustment for Patients on Propranolol Adult Patients In adult patients taking propranolol, only the 5 mg dose of rizatriptan benzoate orally disintegrating tablets is recommended, up to a maximum of 3 doses in any 24-hour period (15 mg) [see Drug Interactions (7.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Pediatric Patients For pediatric patients weighing 40 kg (88 lb) or more, taking propranolol, only a single 5 mg dose of rizatriptan benzoate orally disintegrating tablets is recommended (maximum dose of 5 mg in a 24-hour period). Rizatriptan benzoate orally disintegrating tablets should not be prescribed to propranolol-treated pediatric patients who weigh less than 40 kg (88 lb) [see Drug Interactions (7.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults: 5 or 10 mg single dose; separate repeat doses by at least two hours; maximum dose in a 24-hour period: 30 mg ( 2.1 ) Pediatric patients 6 to 17 years: 5 mg single dose in patients less than 40 kg (88 lb); 10 mg single dose in patients 40 kg (88 lb) or more ( 2.2 ) Adjust dose if co-administered with propranolol ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Dosing Information in Adults The recommended starting dose of rizatriptan benzoate tablets are either 5 mg or 10 mg for the acute treatment of migraines in adults. The efficacy and safety of treatment with more than one dose of rizatriptan benzoate tablet within 24 hours in pediatric patients 6 to 17 years of age have not been established. 2.4 Dosage Adjustment for Patients on Propranolol Adult Patients In adult patients taking propranolol, only the 5-mg dose of rizatriptan benzoate tablets are recommended, up to a maximum of 3 doses in any 24-hour period (15 mg) [see Drug Interactions (7.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Pediatric Patients For pediatric patients weighing 40 kg (88 lb) or more, taking propranolol, only a single 5-mg dose of rizatriptan benzoate tablets is recommended (maximum dose of 5 mg in a 24-hour period). Rizatriptan benzoate tablets should not be prescribed to propranolol-treated pediatric patients who weigh less than 40 kg (88 lb) [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults: 5 mg or 10 mg single dose; separate repeat doses by at least two hours; maximum dose in a 24-hour period: 30 mg ( 2.1 ) Pediatric patients 6 to 17 years: 5 mg single dose in patients less than 40 kg (88 lb); 10 mg single dose in patients 40 kg (88 lb) or more ( 2.2 ) Adjust dose if co-administered with propranolol ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Dosing Information in Adults The recommended starting dose of rizatriptan benzoate orally disintegrating tablets is either 5 mg or 10 mg for the acute treatment of migraines in adults.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS MAXALT is contraindicated in patients with: Ischemic coronary artery disease (angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, or documented silent ischemia), or other significant underlying cardiovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Coronary artery vasospasm including Prinzmetal's angina [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . History of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Peripheral vascular disease (PVD) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Ischemic bowel disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Uncontrolled hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . Recent use (i.e., within 24 hours) of another 5-HT 1 agonist, ergotamine-containing medication, or ergot-type medication (such as dihydroergotamine or methysergide) [see Drug Interactions (7.2 and 7.3) ] . Hemiplegic or basilar migraine [see Indications and Usage (1) ] . Concurrent administration or recent discontinuation (i.e., within 2 weeks) of a MAO-A inhibitor [see Drug Interactions (7.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Hypersensitivity to rizatriptan or any of the excipients (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . History of ischemic heart disease or coronary artery vasospasm ( 4 ) History of stroke or transient ischemic attack ( 4 ) Peripheral vascular disease ( 4 ) Ischemic bowel disease ( 4 ) Uncontrolled hypertension ( 4 ) Recent (within 24 hours) use of another 5-HT 1 agonist (e.g., another triptan), or of an ergotamine-containing medication ( 4 ) Hemiplegic or basilar migraine ( 4 ) MAO-A inhibitor used in the past 2 weeks ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to rizatriptan or any of the excipients ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rizatriptan benzoate tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Ischemic coronary artery disease (angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, or documented silent ischemia), or other significant underlying cardiovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . History of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) [s ee Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Hemiplegic or basilar migraine [see Indications and Usage (1) ]. History of ischemic heart disease or coronary artery vasospasm (4) History of stroke or transient ischemic attack (4) Peripheral vascular disease (4) Ischemic bowel disease (4) Uncontrolled hypertension (4) Recent (within 24 hours) use of another 5-HT 1 agonist (e.g., another triptan), or of an ergotamine-containing medication (4) Hemiplegic or basilar migraine (4) MAO-A inhibitor used in the past 2 weeks (4) Hypersensitivity to rizatriptan or any of the excipients (4) Rizatriptan benzoate tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Ischemic coronary artery disease (angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, or documented silent ischemia), or other significant underlying cardiovascular disease [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.1)]. Coronary artery vasospasm including Prinzmetal's angina [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.1)]. History of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.4)]. Peripheral vascular disease (PVD) [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.5)]. Ischemic bowel disease [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.5)]. Uncontrolled hypertension [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.8)]. Recent use (i.e., within 24 hours) of another 5-HT1 agonist, ergotamine-containing medication, or ergot-type medication (such as dihydroergotamine or methysergide) [see DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.2 and 7.3)]. Hemiplegic or basilar migraine [see INDICATIONS AND USAGE (1)]. Concurrent administration or recent discontinuation (i.e., within 2 weeks) of a MAO-A inhibitor [see DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.5) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. Hypersensitivity to rizatriptan or any of the excipients (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) [see ADVERSE REACTIONS (6.2)]. History of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) [se e Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rizatriptan benzoate orally disintegrating tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Ischemic coronary artery disease (angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, or documented silent ischemia), or other significant underlying cardiovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Coronary artery vasospasm including Prinzmetal’s angina [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Coronary artery vasospasm including Prinzmetal's angina [see Warnings and Precautions(5.1) ] . Hemiplegic or basilar migraine [see Indications and Usage ( 1 )].
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Propranolol The dose of MAXALT should be adjusted in propranolol-treated patients, as propranolol has been shown to increase the plasma AUC of rizatriptan by 70% [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.2 Ergot-Containing Drugs Ergot-containing drugs have been reported to cause prolonged vasospastic reactions. Because these effects may be additive, use of ergotamine-containing or ergot-type medications (like dihydroergotamine or methysergide) and MAXALT within 24 hours is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . 7.3 Other 5-HT 1 Agonists Because their vasospastic effects may be additive, co-administration of MAXALT and other 5-HT 1 agonists within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . 7.4 SSRIs/SNRIs and Serotonin Syndrome Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during co-administration of triptans and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . 7.5 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors MAXALT is contraindicated in patients taking MAO-A inhibitors and non-selective MAO inhibitors. A specific MAO-A inhibitor increased the systemic exposure of rizatriptan and its metabolite [see Contraindications (4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Drug Interactions [See also Drug Interactions (7) .] Monoamine oxidase inhibitors : Rizatriptan is principally metabolized via monoamine oxidase, 'A' subtype (MAO-A). Plasma concentrations of rizatriptan may be increased by drugs that are selective MAO-A inhibitors (e.g., moclobemide) or nonselective MAO inhibitors [type A and B] (e.g., isocarboxazid, phenelzine, tranylcypromine, and pargyline). In a drug interaction study, when MAXALT 10 mg was administered to subjects (n=12) receiving concomitant therapy with the selective, reversible MAO-A inhibitor, moclobemide 150 mg t.i.d., there were mean increases in rizatriptan AUC and C max of 119% and 41% respectively; and the AUC of the active N-monodesmethyl metabolite of rizatriptan was increased more than 400%. The interaction would be expected to be greater with irreversible MAO inhibitors. No pharmacokinetic interaction is anticipated in patients receiving selective MAO-B inhibitors [see Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7.5) ] . Propranolol : In a study of concurrent administration of propranolol 240 mg/day and a single dose of rizatriptan 10 mg in healthy adult subjects (n=11), mean plasma AUC for rizatriptan was increased by 70% during propranolol administration, and a four-fold increase was observed in one subject. The AUC of the active N-monodesmethyl metabolite of rizatriptan was not affected by propranolol [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Nadolol/Metoprolol : In a drug interactions study, effects of multiple doses of nadolol 80 mg or metoprolol 100 mg every 12 hours on the pharmacokinetics of a single dose of 10 mg rizatriptan were evaluated in healthy subjects (n=12). No pharmacokinetic interactions were observed. Paroxetine : In a study of the interaction between the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) paroxetine 20 mg/day for two weeks and a single dose of MAXALT 10 mg in healthy subjects (n=12), neither the plasma concentrations of rizatriptan nor its safety profile were affected by paroxetine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) , Drug Interactions (7.4) , and Patient Counseling Information (17) ] . Oral contraceptives : In a study of concurrent administration of an oral contraceptive during 6 days of administration of MAXALT (10-30 mg/day) in healthy female volunteers (n=18), rizatriptan did not affect plasma concentrations of ethinyl estradiol or norethindrone. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Propranolol The dose of rizatriptan benzoate should be adjusted in propranolol-treated patients, as propranolol has been shown to increase the plasma AUC of rizatriptan by 70% [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Because these effects may be additive, use of ergotamine-containing or ergot-type medications (like dihydroergotamine or methysergide) and rizatriptan benzoate within 24 hours is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . 7.3 Other 5-HT 1 Agonists Because their vasospastic effects may be additive, co-administration of rizatriptan benzoate and other 5-HT 1 agonists within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . 7.5 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Rizatriptan benzoate is contraindicated in patients taking MAO-A inhibitors and non-selective MAO inhibitors. 7.1 Propranolol The dose of rizatriptan benzoate should be adjusted in propranolol-treated patients, as propranolol has been shown to increase the plasma AUC of rizatriptan by 70% [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.4) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. Because these effects may be additive, use of ergotamine-containing or ergot-type medications (like dihydroergotamine or methysergide) and rizatriptan benzoate within 24 hours is contraindicated [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4)]. 7.3 Other 5-HT1 Agonists Because their vasospastic effects may be additive, co-administration of rizatriptan benzoate and other 5-HT1 agonists within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4)]. 7.4 SSRIs/SNRIs and Serotonin Syndrome Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during co-administration of triptans and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.7)]. A specific MAO-A inhibitor increased the systemic exposure of rizatriptan and its metabolite [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Propranolol The dose of rizatriptan benzoate tablets should be adjusted in propranolol-treated patients, as propranolol has been shown to increase the plasma AUC of rizatriptan by 70% [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Because these effects may be additive, use of ergotamine-containing or ergot-type medications (like dihydroergotamine or methysergide) and rizatriptan benzoate tablets within 24 hours is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . 7.3 Other 5-HT 1 Agonists Because their vasospastic effects may be additive, co-administration of rizatriptan benzoate tablets and other 5-HT 1 agonists within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . 7.5 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Rizatriptan benzoate tablets is contraindicated in patients taking MAO-A inhibitors and non-selective MAO inhibitors.

=== URSODIOL ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ursodiol is indicated for patients with radiolucent, noncalcified gallbladder stones < 20 mm in greatest diameter in whom elective cholecystectomy would be undertaken except for the presence of increased surgical risk due to systemic disease, advanced age, idiosyncratic reaction to general anesthesia, or for those patients who refuse surgery. Safety of use of ursodiol beyond 24 months is not established. Ursodiol is indicated for the prevention of gallstone formation in obese patients experiencing rapid weight loss. INDICATIONS AND USAGE 1. Ursodiol is indicated for patients with radiolucent, noncalcified gallbladder stones < 20 mm in greatest diameter in whom elective cholecystectomy would be undertaken except for the presence of increased surgical risk due to systemic disease, advanced age, idiosyncratic reaction to general anesthesia, or for those patients who refuse surgery. 2. INDICATIONS & USAGE 1. Ursodiol capsules, USP are indicated for patients with radiolucent, noncalcified gallbladder stones < 20 mm in greatest diameter in whom elective cholecystectomy would be undertaken except for the presence of increased surgical risk due to systemic disease, advanced age, idiosyncratic reaction to general anesthesia, or for those patients who refuse surgery. Safety of use of ursodiol capsules beyond 24 months is not established. Ursodiol capsules are indicated for the prevention of gallstone formation in obese patients experiencing rapid weight loss. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ursodiol tablets, USP 250 mg and 500 mg are indicated for the treatment of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC). Ursodiol tablets, USP 250 mg and 500 mg are bile acids indicated for the treatment of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ursodiol Tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC). Ursodiol tablets, USP are bile acids indicated for the treatment of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis ( 1 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ursodiol capsules are indicated for patients with radiolucent, noncalcified gallbladder stones < 20 mm in greatest diameter in whom elective cholecystectomy would be undertaken except for the presence of increased surgical risk due to systemic disease, advanced age, idiosyncratic reaction to general anesthesia, or for those patients who refuse surgery. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ursodiol tablets are indicated for the treatment of patients with primary biliary cholangitis (PBC). Ursodiol tablets are bile acids indicated for the treatment of patients with primary biliary cholangitis. ( 1 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ursodiol capsules are indicated for patients with radiolucent, noncalcified gallbladder stones <20 mm in greatest diameter in whom elective cholecystectomy would be undertaken except for the presence of increased surgical risk due to systemic disease, advanced age, idiosyncratic reaction to general anesthesia, or for those patients who refuse surgery.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Gallstone Dissolution The recommended dose for ursodiol treatment of radiolucent gallbladder stones is 8 - 10 mg/kg/day given in 2 or 3 divided doses. Ultrasound images of the gallbladder should be obtained at 6-month intervals for the first year of ursodiol therapy to monitor gallstone response. If gallstones appear to have dissolved, ursodiol therapy should be continued and dissolution confirmed on a repeat ultrasound examination within 1 to 3 months. Most patients who eventually achieve complete stone dissolution will show partial or complete dissolution at the first on-treatment reevaluation. If partial stone dissolution is not seen by 12 months of ursodiol therapy, the likelihood of success is greatly reduced. Gallstone Prevention The recommended dosage of ursodiol for gallstone prevention in patients undergoing rapid weight loss is 600 mg/day (300 mg b.i.d.). DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Gallstone Dissolution The recommended dose for Ursodiol capsules treatment of radiolucent gallbladder stones is 8 - 10 mg/kg/day given in 2 or 3 divided doses. Ultrasound images of the gallbladder should be obtained at 6-month intervals for the first year of Ursodiol capsules therapy to monitor gallstone response. If gallstones appear to have dissolved, Ursodiol capsules therapy should be continued and dissolution confirmed on a repeat ultrasound examination within 1 to 3 months. Most patients who eventually achieve complete stone dissolution will show partial or complete dissolution at the first on treatment reevaluation. If partial stone dissolution is not seen by 12 months of Ursodiol capsules therapy, the likelihood of success is greatly reduced. Gallstone Prevention The recommended dosage of Ursodiol capsules for gallstone prevention in patients undergoing rapid weight loss is 600 mg/day (300 mg b.i.d.). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended adult dosage: 13-15 mg/kg/day administered in two to four divided doses with food ( 2.1 ) Scored ursodiol tablets, USP 500 mg: scored tablet can be broken in halves to provide recommended dosage ( 2.3 , 16.2 ) 2.1 General Dosing Information The recommended adult dosage for ursodiol tablets, USP 250 and 500 mg in the treatment of PBC is 13-15 mg/kg/day administered in two to four divided doses with food. Dosing regimen should be adjusted according to each patient’s need at the discretion of the physician. 2.2 Liver Function Tests Liver function tests (γ-GT, alkaline phosphatase, AST, ALT) and bilirubin levels should be monitored every month for three months after start of therapy, and every six months thereafter [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 2.3 Scoring the Ursodiol tablet s, USP 500 mg The ursodiol tablets, USP 500 mg scored tablet can be broken in halves to provide recommended dosage. To break ursodiol tablets, USP 500 mg scored tablet easily, place the tablet on a flat surface with the scored section on top. Hold the tablet with your thumbs placed close to the scored part of the tablet (groove). Then apply gentle pressure and snap the tablet segments apart (segments breaking incorrectly should not be used). The segments should be washed down unchewed, with water, keeping the segments in the mouth can reveal a bitter taste. Due to the bitter taste, segments should be stored separately from whole tablets. [see How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16.2) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended adult dosage: 13 to 15 mg/kg/day administered in two to four divided doses with food ( 2.1 ) Scored ursodiol 500 mg tablet: scored tablet can be broken in halves to provide recommended dosage ( 2.2 , 16.2 ) 2.1 General Dosing Information The recommended adult dosage for ursodiol in the treatment of PBC is 13 to 15 mg/kg/day administered in two to four divided doses with food. 2.2 Liver Function Tests Liver Function Tests ( y- GT, alkaline phosphatase, AST, ALT) and bilirubin levels should be monitored every month for the three months after start of therapy, and every six months thereafter [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. 2.3 Scoring the Ursodiol 500 mg Tablet The ursodiol 500 mg scored tablet can be broken in halves to provide recommended dosage. To break ursodiol 500 mg scored tablet easily, place the tablet on a flat surface with the scored section on top. [see How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16.2) ] . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Gallstone Dissolution The recommended dose for ursodiol capsules treatment of radiolucent gallbladder stones is 8 to 10 mg/kg/day given in 2 or 3 divided doses. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended adult dosage: 13 to 15 mg/kg/day administered in two to four divided doses with food. ( 2.1 ) Scored ursodiol 500 mg tablet: scored tablet can be broken in halves to provide recommended dosage. ( 2.3 , 16.2 ) 2.1 General Dosing Information The recommended adult dosage for ursodiol tablets in the treatment of PBC is 13 to 15 mg/kg/day administered in two to four divided doses with food. 2.2 Liver Function Tests Liver function tests ( y- GT, alkaline phosphatase, AST, ALT) and bilirubin levels should be monitored every month for three months after start of therapy, and every six months thereafter [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. 2.3 Scoring the Ursodiol Tablet 500 mg The ursodiol 500 mg scored tablet can be broken in halves to provide recommended dosage. Most patients who eventually achieve complete stone dissolution will show partial or complete dissolution at the first on-treatment re-evaluation. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Gallstone Dissolution The recommended dose for ursodiol treatment of radiolucent gallbladder stones is 8 to 10 mg/kg/day given in 2 or 3 divided doses.
Warnings: WARNINGS Enteroliths in Patients with Risk for Intestinal Stenosis or Stasis There have been rare postmarketing reports of ursodiol-treated patients who developed enteroliths (bezoars) resulting in obstructive symptoms that required surgical intervention. These patients had medical conditions that predisposed them to intestinal stenosis or stasis (e.g., surgical enteroanastomoses, Crohn's disease). If a patient presents with obstructive gastrointestinal symptoms, hold ursodiol until a clinical evaluation has been conducted.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Ursodiol will not dissolve calcified cholesterol stones, radiopaque stones, or radiolucent bile pigment stones. Hence, patients with such stones are not candidates for ursodiol therapy. Patients with compelling reasons for cholecystectomy including unremitting acute cholecystitis, cholangitis, biliary obstruction, gallstone pancreatitis, or biliary-gastrointestinal fistula are not candidates for ursodiol therapy. Allergy to bile acids. CONTRAINDICATIONS 1. Ursodiol will not dissolve calcified cholesterol stones, radiopaque stones, or radiolucent bile pigment stones. 2. 3. Ursodiol capsules will not dissolve calcified cholesterol stones, radiopaque stones, or radiolucent bile pigment stones. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients with complete biliary obstruction and known hypersensitivity or intolerance to ursodiol or any of the components of the formulation. Patients with complete biliary obstruction and known hypersensitivity or intolerance to ursodiol or any of the components of the formulation ( 4 ) Patients with complete biliary obstruction and known hypersensitivity or intolerance to ursodiol or any of the components of the formulation. ( 4 )
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Bile acid sequestering agents such as cholestyramine and colestipol may interfere with the action of ursodiol by reducing its absorption. Aluminum-based antacids have been shown to adsorb bile acids in vitro and may be expected to interfere with ursodiol in the same manner as the bile acid sequestering agents. Estrogens, oral contraceptives, and clofibrate (and perhaps other lipid-lowering drugs) increase hepatic cholesterol secretion, and encourage cholesterol gallstone formation and hence may counteract the effectiveness of ursodiol. 7 Drug Interactions Bile Acid Sequestering Agents: May interfere with the action of ursodiol tablets, USP 250 mg and 500 mg by reducing its absorption ( 7.1 ) Aluminum-based Antacids: May interfere with the action of ursodiol tablets, USP 250 mg and 500 mg by reducing its absorption ( 7.2 ) Drugs that alter the metabolism of lipids or induce cholestasis may interfere with the action of ursodiol tablets, USP 250 mg and 500 mg ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Bile Acid Sequestering Agents Bile acid sequestering agents such as cholestyramine and colestipol may interfere with the action of ursodiol tablets, USP 250 mg and 500 mg by reducing its absorption. 7.2 Aluminum-based Antacids Aluminum-based antacids have been shown to adsorb bile acids in vitro and may be expected to interfere with ursodiol tablets, USP 250 mg and 500 mg in the same manner as the bile acid sequestering agents. 7.3 Drugs Affecting Lipid Metabolism Estrogens, oral contraceptives, and clofibrate (and perhaps other lipid-lowering drugs) increase hepatic cholesterol secretion and encourage cholesterol gallstone formation and hence may counteract the effectiveness of ursodiol tablets, USP 250 mg and 500 mg. 17.2 Drug Interactions Patients should be informed that absorption of ursodiol tablets, USP 250 mg and 500 mg may be reduced if they are taking bile acid sequestering agents, such as cholestyramine and colestipol, aluminum-based antacids, or drugs known to alter the metabolism of cholesterol [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Manufactured by: Confab Laboratories St-Hubert (Quebec) CANADA Distributed by: Actavis Pharma, Inc. Parsippany, NJ 07054 USA Revised: June 2018 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Bile Acid Sequestering Agents: May interfere with the action of ursodiol by reducing its absorption ( 7.1 ) Aluminum-based Antacids: May interfere with the action of ursodiol by reducing its absorption ( 7.2 ) Drugs that alter the metabolism of lipids or induce cholestasis may interfere with the action of ursodiol ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Bile Acid Sequestering Agents Bile acid sequestering agents such as cholestyramine and colestipol may interfere with the action of ursodiol by reducing its absorption. 7.2 Aluminum-based Antacids Aluminum-based antacids have been shown to adsorb bile acids in vitro and may be expected to interfere with ursodiol in the same manner as the bile acid sequestering agents. 7.3 Drugs Affecting Lipid Metabolism Estrogens, oral contraceptives, and clofibrate (and perhaps other lipid-lowering drugs) increase hepatic cholesterol secretion and encourage cholesterol gallstone formation and hence may counteract the effectiveness of ursodiol. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Bile Acid Sequestering Agents : May interfere with the action of ursodiol by reducing its absorption. ( 7.1 ) Aluminum-based Antacids : May interfere with the action of ursodiol by reducing its absorption. ( 7.2 ) Drugs that alter the metabolism of lipids or induce cholestasis may interfere with the action of ursodiol. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Bile Acid Sequestering Agents Bile acid sequestering agents such as cholestyramine and colestipol may interfere with the action of ursodiol by reducing its absorption. Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility Ursodeoxycholic acid was tested in 2-year oral carcinogenicity studies in CD-1 mice and Sprague-Dawley rats at daily doses of 50, 250, and 1,000 mg/kg/day. It was not tumorigenic in mice. In the rat study, it produced statistically significant dose-related increased incidences of pheochromocytomas of adrenal medulla in males (p = 0.014, Peto trend test) and females (p = 0.004, Peto trend test). A 78-week rat study employing intrarectal instillation of lithocholic acid and tauro-deoxycholic acid, metabolites of ursodiol and chenodiol, has been conducted. These bile acids alone did not produce any tumors. A tumor-promoting effect of both metabolites was observed when they were coadministered with a carcinogenic agent. Results of epidemiologic studies suggest that bile acids might be involved in the pathogenesis of human colon cancer in patients who had undergone a cholecystectomy, but direct evidence is lacking. Ursodiol is not mutagenic in the Ames test. Dietary administration of lithocholic acid to chickens is reported to cause hepatic adenomatous hyperplasia.

=== LISINOPRIL AND HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure lowers the risk of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than 1 drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. These fixed-dose combinations are not indicated for initial therapy (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). In using lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, consideration should be given to the fact that an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has caused agranulocytosis, particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen vascular disease, and that available data are insufficient to show that lisinopril does not have a similar risk. (See WARNINGS .) In considering use of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, it should be noted that Black patients receiving ACE inhibitors have been reported to have a higher incidence of angioedema compared to non-Black. (See WARNINGS, Head and Neck Angioedema .) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program's Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (eg., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). In using lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP, consideration should be given to the fact that an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has caused agranulocytosis, particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen vascular disease, and that available data are insufficient to show that lisinopril does not have a similar risk. (See WARNINGS ). In considering the use of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP, it should be noted that ACE inhibitors have been associated with a higher rate of angioedema in black than in nonblack patients. (See WARNINGS , Lisinopril ). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. In using lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP consideration should be given to the fact that an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has caused agranulocytosis, particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen vascular disease, and that available data are insufficient to show that lisinopril does not have a similar risk (See WARNINGS ). In considering the use of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP it should be noted that ACE inhibitors have been associated with a higher rate of angioedema in black than in nonblack patients (see WARNINGS, Lisinopril ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE ZESTORETIC is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. In using ZESTORETIC, consideration should be given to the fact that an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has caused agranulocytosis, particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen vascular disease, and that available data are insufficient to show that lisinopril does not have a similar risk (see WARNINGS ). In considering the use of ZESTORETIC, it should be noted that ACE inhibitors have been associated with a higher rate of angioedema in black than in nonblack patients (see WARNINGS, Lisinopril ). In using lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, consideration should be given to the fact that an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has caused agranulocytosis, particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen vascular disease, and that available data are insufficient to show that lisinopril does not have a similar risk. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. In using Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets, consideration should be given to the fact that an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has caused agranulocytosis, particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen vascular disease, and that available data are insufficient to show that lisinopril does not have a similar risk (see WARNINGS ). In considering use of Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets, it should be noted that Black patients receiving ACE inhibitors have been reported to have a higher incidence of angioedema compared to non- Blacks (see WARNINGS, Head and Neck Angioedema ).
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Lisinopril monotherapy is an effective treatment of hypertension in once-daily doses of 10 mg to 80 mg, while hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy is effective in doses of 12.5 mg to 50 mg per day. In clinical trials of lisinopril/hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy using lisinopril doses of 10 mg to 80 mg and hydrochlorothiazide doses of 6.25 mg to 50 mg, the antihypertensive response rates generally increased with increasing dose of either component. The side effects (see WARNINGS ) of lisinopril are generally rare and apparently independent of dose; those of hydrochlorothiazide are a mixture of dose-dependent phenomena (primarily hypokalemia) and dose-independent phenomena (e.g., pancreatitis), the former much more common than the latter. Therapy with any combination of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide will be associated with both sets of dose-independent side effects, but addition of lisinopril in clinical trials blunted the hypokalemia normally seen with diuretics. To minimize dose-independent side effects, it is usually appropriate to begin combination therapy only after a patient has failed to achieve the desired effect with monotherapy. Dose Titration Guided by Clinical Effect A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with either lisinopril or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy may be switched to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 10-12.5 or lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 20-12.5. Further increases of either or both components could depend on clinical response. The hydrochlorothiazide dose should generally not be increased until 2-3 weeks have elapsed. Patients whose blood pressures are adequately controlled with 25 mg of daily hydrochlorothiazide, but who experience significant potassium loss with this regimen, may achieve similar or greater blood pressure control with less potassium loss if they are switched to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 10-12.5. Dosage higher than lisinopril 80 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg should not be used. Replacement Therapy: The combination may be substituted for the titrated individual components. Use in Renal Impairment: The usual regimens of therapy with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets need not be adjusted as long as the patient's creatinine clearance is greater than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 (serum creatinine approximately less than or equal to 3 mg/dL or 265 μmol/L). In patients with more severe renal impairment, loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides, so lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not recommended (see WARNINGS, Anaphylactoid reactions during membrane exposure ). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Lisinopril monotherapy is an effective treatment of hypertension in once-daily doses of 10 mg to 80 mg, while hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy is effective in doses of 12.5 mg per day to 50 mg per day. Therapy with any combination of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide may be associated with either or both dose-independent or dose-dependent side effects, but addition of lisinopril in clinical trials blunted the hypokalemia normally seen with diuretics. To minimize dose-dependent side effects, it is usually appropriate to begin combination therapy only after a patient has failed to achieve the desired effect with monotherapy. Dose Titration Guided by Clinical Effect A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with either lisinopril or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy may be switched to lisinopril /HCTZ 10 /12.5 or lisinopril/HCTZ 20 /12.5, depending on current monotherapy dose. Further increases of either or both components should depend on clinical response with blood pressure measured at the interdosing interval to ensure that there is an adequate antihypertensive effect at that time. The hydrochlorothiazide dose should generally not be increased until 2 to 3 weeks have elapsed. After addition of the diuretic it may be possible to reduce the dose of lisinopril. Patients whose blood pressures are adequately controlled with 25 mg of daily hydrochlorothiazide, but who experience significant potassium loss with this regimen may achieve similar or greater blood-pressure control without electrolyte disturbance if they are switched to Lisinopril/HCTZ 10 /12.5. In patients who are currently being treated with a diuretic, symptomatic hypotension occasionally may occur following the initial dose of lisinopril. The diuretic should, if possible, be discontinued for two to three days before beginning therapy with lisinopril to reduce the likelihood of hypotension (See WARNINGS ). If the patient's blood pressure is not controlled with lisinopril alone, diuretic therapy may be resumed. If the diuretic cannot be discontinued, an initial dose of 5 mg of lisinopril should be used under medical supervision for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Concomitant administration of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide with potassium supplements, potassium salt substitutes or potassium-sparing diuretics may lead to increases of serum potassium (See PRECAUTIONS ). Replacement Therapy The combination may be substituted for the titrated individual components. Use in Renal Impairment Regimens of therapy with lisinopril/HCTZ need not take account of renal function as long as the patient's creatinine clearance is >30 mL/min/1.7m 2 (serum creatinine roughly ≤3 mg/dL or 265 µmol/L). In patients with more severe renal impairment, loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides, so lisinopril/HCTZ is not recommended (see WARNINGS, Anaphylactoid Reactions During Membrane Exposure) . Dose Titration Guided by Clinical Effect: A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with either lisinopril or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy may be switched to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 10 mg/12.5 mg or lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 20 mg/12.5 mg, depending on current monotherapy dose. Patients whose blood pressures are adequately controlled with 25 mg of daily hydrochlorothiazide, but who experience significant potassium loss with this regimen may achieve similar or greater blood-pressure control without electrolyte disturbance if they are switched to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 10 mg/12.5 mg. If the patient’s blood pressure is not controlled with lisinopril alone, diuretic therapy may be resumed. Concomitant administration of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets with potassium supplements, potassium salt substitutes or potassium-sparing diuretics may lead to increases of serum potassium (See PRECAUTIONS ). Use in Renal Impairment: Regimens of therapy with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide need not take account of renal function as long as the patient’s creatinine clearance is >30 mL/min/1.7m2 (serum creatinine roughly ≤3 mg/dL or 265 μmol/L). In patients with more severe renal impairment, loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides, so lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide is not recommended (see WARNINGS, Anaphylactoid Reactions During Membrane Exposure ). Dose Titration Guided by Clinical Effect: A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with either lisinopril or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy may be switched to lisinopril/HCTZ 10/12.5 or lisinopril/HCTZ 20/12.5, depending on current monotherapy dose. Patients whose blood pressures are adequately controlled with 25 mg of daily hydrochlorothiazide, but who experience significant potassium loss with this regimen may achieve similar or greater blood-pressure control without electrolyte disturbance if they are switched to lisinopril/HCTZ 10/12.5. If the diuretic cannot be discontinued, an initial dose of 5 mg of lisinopril should be used under medical supervision for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Concomitant administration of ZESTORETIC with potassium supplements, potassium salt substitutes or potassium-sparing diuretics may lead to increases of serum potassium (see PRECAUTIONS ). Use in Renal Impairment: Regimens of therapy with lisinopril/HCTZ need not take account of renal function as long as the patient's creatinine clearance is >30 mL/min/1.7m 2 (serum creatinine roughly ≤3 mg/dL or 265 μmol/L). In patients with more severe renal impairment, loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides, so lisinopril/HCTZ is not recommended (see WARNINGS , Anaphylactoid Reactions During Membrane Exposure ). Dose Titration Guided by Clinical Effect A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with either lisinopril or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy may be switched to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 10 mg/12.5 mg or lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 20 mg/12.5 mg. Patients whose blood pressures are adequately controlled with 25 mg of daily hydrochlorothiazide, but who experience significant potassium loss with this regimen, may achieve similar or greater blood pressure control with less potassium loss if they are switched to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 10 mg/12.5 mg. Use in Renal Impairment The usual regimens of therapy with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets need not be adjusted as long as the patient's creatinine clearance is greater than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 (serum creatinine approximately less than or equal to 3 mg/dL or 265 μmol/L). Dose Titration Guided by Clinical Effect A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with either lisinopril or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy may be switched to Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 10/12.5 or Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 20/12.5. Patients whose blood pressures are adequately controlled with 25 mg of daily hydrochlorothiazide, but who experience significant potassium loss with this regimen, may achieve similar or greater blood pressure control with less potassium loss if they are switched to Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets 10/12.5. Use in Renal Impairment The usual regimens of therapy with Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets need not be adjusted as long as the patient's creatinine clearance is greater than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 (serum creatinine approximately less than or equal to 3 mg/dL or 265 µmol/L). In patients with more severe renal impairment, loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides, so Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets is not recommended (see WARNINGS , Anaphylactoid reactions during membrane exposure ).
Warnings: WARNINGS General Lisinopril Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions: Presumably because angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides, including endogenous bradykinin, patients receiving ACE inhibitors (including lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets) may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions, some of them serious. Head and Neck Angioedema: Angioedema of the face, extremities, lips, tongue, glottis and/or larynx has been reported rarely in patients treated with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, including lisinopril. This may occur at any time during treatment. ACE inhibitors have been associated with a higher rate of angioedema in Black than in non-Black patients. In such cases lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be promptly discontinued and appropriate therapy and monitoring should be provided until complete and sustained resolution of signs and symptoms has occurred. Even in those instances where swelling of only the tongue is involved, without respiratory distress, patients may require prolonged observation since treatment with antihistamines and corticosteroids may not be sufficient. Very rarely, fatalities have been reported due to angioedema associated with laryngeal edema or tongue edema. Patients with involvement of the tongue, glottis or larynx are likely to experience airway obstruction, especially those with a history of airway surgery. Where there is involvement of the tongue, glottis or larynx, likely to cause airway obstruction, subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1:1000 (0.3 mL to 0.5 mL) and/or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway should be promptly provided (See ADVERSE REACTIONS . ) Patients with a history of angioedema unrelated to ACE-inhibitor therapy may be at increased risk of angioedema while receiving an ACE inhibitor (see also INDICATIONS AND USAGE and CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitor and mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor (e.g., temsirolimus, sirolimus, everolimus) therapy or a neprilysin inhibitor may be at increased risk for angioedema (see PRECAUTIONS ). Intestinal Angioedema : Intestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors. These patients presented with abdominal pain (with or without nausea or vomiting); in some cases there was no prior history of facial angioedema and C-1 esterase levels were normal. The angioedema was diagnosed by procedures including abdominal CT scan or ultrasound, or at surgery, and symptoms resolved after stopping the ACE inhibitor. Intestinal angioedema should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients on ACE inhibitors presenting with abdominal pain. Anaphylactoid reactions during desensitization: Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions. In the same patients, these reactions were avoided when ACE inhibitors were temporarily withheld, but they reappeared upon inadvertent rechallenge. Anaphylactoid reactions during membrane exposure: Sudden and potentially life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in some patients dialyzed with high-flux membranes and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor. In such patients, dialysis must be stopped immediately, and aggressive therapy for anaphylactoid reactions must be initiated. Symptoms have not been relieved by antihistamines in these situations. In these patients, consideration should be given to using a different type of dialysis membrane or a different class of antihypertensive agent. Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in patients undergoing low-density lipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate absorption. Hypotension and Related Effects Excessive hypotension was rarely seen in uncomplicated hypertensive patients but is a possible consequence of lisinopril use in salt/volume-depleted persons such as those treated vigorously with diuretics or patients on dialysis. (See PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions and ADVERSE REACTIONS .) Syncope has been reported in 0.8 percent of patients receiving lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. In patients with hypertension receiving lisinopril alone, the incidence of syncope was 0.1 percent. The overall incidence of syncope may be reduced by proper titration of the individual components. (See PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions , ADVERSE REACTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) In patients with severe congestive heart failure, with or without associated renal insufficiency, excessive hypotension has been observed and may be associated with oliguria and/or progressive azotemia, and rarely with acute renal failure and/or death. Because of the potential fall in blood pressure in these patients, therapy should be started under very close medical supervision. Such patients should be followed closely for the first two weeks of treatment and whenever the dose of lisinopril and/or diuretic is increased. Similar considerations apply to patients with ischemic heart or cerebrovascular disease in whom an excessive fall in blood pressure could result in a myocardial infarction or cerebrovascular accident. If hypotension occurs, the patient should be placed in supine position and, if necessary, receive an intravenous infusion of normal saline. A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further doses which usually can be given without difficulty once the blood pressure has increased after volume expansion. Neutropenia/Agranulocytosis Another angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has been shown to cause agranulocytosis and bone marrow depression, rarely in uncomplicated patients but more frequently in patients with renal impairment, especially if they also have a collagen vascular disease. Available data from clinical trials of lisinopril are insufficient to show that lisinopril does not cause agranulocytosis at similar rates. Marketing experience has revealed rare cases of neutropenia and bone marrow depression in which a causal relationship to lisinopril cannot be excluded. Periodic monitoring of white blood cell counts in patients with collagen vascular disease and renal disease should be considered. Hepatic Failure Rarely, ACE inhibitors have been associated with a syndrome that starts with cholestatic jaundice or hepatitis and progresses to fulminant hepatic necrosis, and (sometimes) death. The mechanism of this syndrome is not understood. Patients receiving ACE inhibitors who develop jaundice or marked elevations of hepatic enzymes should discontinue the ACE inhibitor and receive appropriate medical follow-up. Hydrochlorothiazide Thiazides should be used with caution in severe renal disease. In patients with renal disease, thiazides may precipitate azotemia. Cumulative effects of the drug may develop in patients with impaired renal function. Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease, since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma. Sensitivity reactions may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma. The possibility of exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported. Lithium generally should not be given with thiazides (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions , Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide ). Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma : Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy. Fetal Toxicity Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible. These adverse outcomes are usually associated with the use of these drugs in the second and third trimester of pregnancy. Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin-angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents. Appropriate management of maternal hypertension during pregnancy is important to optimize outcomes for both mother and fetus. In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative therapy to drugs affecting the renin-angiotensin system for a particular patient, apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus. Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra-amniotic environment. If oligohydramnios is observed, discontinue lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, unless it is considered lifesaving for the mother. Fetal testing may be appropriate, based on the week of pregnancy. Patients and physicians should be aware, however, that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury. Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets for hypotension, oliguria, and hyperkalemia ( See PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use ). Lisinopril-Hydrochlorothiazide Teratogenicity studies were conducted in mice and rats with up to 90 mg/kg/day of lisinopril in combination with 10 mg/kg/day of hydrochlorothiazide. This dose of lisinopril is 5 times (in mice) and 10 times (in rats) the maximum recommended human daily dose (MRHDD) when compared on a body surface area basis (mg/m 2 ); the dose of hydrochlorothiazide is 0.9 times (in mice) and 1.8 times (in rats) the MRHDD. Maternal or fetotoxic effects were not seen in mice with the combination. In rats decreased maternal weight gain and decreased fetal weight occurred down to 3/10 mg/kg/day (the lowest dose tested). Associated with the decreased fetal weight was a delay in fetal ossification. The decreased fetal weight and delay in fetal ossification were not seen in saline-supplemented animals given 90/10 mg/kg/day. No teratogenic effects of lisinopril were seen in studies of pregnant mice, rats, and rabbits. On a body surface area basis, the doses used were up 55 times, 33 times, and 0.15 times, respectively, the MRHDD. Hydrochlorothiazide Studies in which hydrochlorothiazide was orally administered to pregnant mice and rats during their respective periods of major organogenesis at doses up to 3000 and 1000 mg/kg/day, respectively, provided no evidence of harm to the fetus. These doses are more than 150 times the MRHDD on a body surface area basis. Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood. There is a risk of fetal or neonatal jaundice, thrombocytopenia and possibly other adverse reactions that have occurred in adults. WARNINGS Lisinopril Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions: Presumably because angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides, including endogenous bradykinin, patients receiving ACE inhibitors (including lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide) may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions, some of them serious. Head and Neck Angioedema: Angioedema of the face, extremities, lips, tongue, glottis and/or larynx has been reported in patients treated with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, including lisinopril. ACE inhibitors have been associated with a higher rate of angioedema in black than in nonblack patients. Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide should be promptly discontinued and the appropriate therapy and monitoring should be provided until complete and sustained resolution of signs and symptoms has occurred. Where there is involvement of the tongue, glottis or larynx, likely to cause airway obstruction, subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1:1000 (0.3 mL to 0.5 mL) and/or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway, should be promptly provided (See ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Intestinal Angioedema: Intestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors. Patients with a history of angioedema unrelated to ACE-inhibitor therapy may be at increased risk of angioedema while receiving an ACE inhibitor (see also INDICATIONS AND USAGE and CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Anaphylactoid reactions during membrane exposure: Thiazide-containing combination products are not recommended in patients with severe renal dysfunction. Sudden and potentially life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in some patients dialyzed with high-flux membranes (eg., AN69 ® *) and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor. Hypotension and Related Effects: Excessive hypotension was rarely seen in uncomplicated hypertensive patients but is a possible consequence of lisinopril use in salt/volume-depleted persons, such as those treated vigorously with diuretics or patients on dialysis . (See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions and ADVERSE REACTIONS .) Syncope has been reported in 0.8 percent of patients receiving lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide. If hypotension occurs, the patient should be placed in the supine position and, if necessary, receive an intravenous infusion of normal saline. Leukopenia/Neutropenia/Agranulocytosis: Another angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has been shown to cause agranulocytosis and bone marrow depression, rarely in uncomplicated patients but more frequently in patients with renal impairment, especially if they also have a collagen vascular disease. Marketing experience has revealed rare cases of leukopenia/neutropenia and bone marrow depression in which a causal relationship to lisinopril cannot be excluded. Hepatic Failure: Rarely, ACE inhibitors have been associated with a syndrome that starts with cholestatic jaundice or hepatitis and progresses to fulminant hepatic necrosis and (sometimes) death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide as soon as possible. These adverse outcomes are usually associated with use of these drugs in the second and third trimester of pregnancy. In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the renin-angiotensin system for a particular patient, apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus. If oligohydramnios is observed, discontinue lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide, unless it is considered lifesaving for the mother. Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide for hypotension, oliguria, and hyperkalemia (see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use) . No teratogenic effects of lisinopril were seen in studies of pregnant rats, mice, and rabbits. On a mg/kg basis, the doses used were up to 625 times (in mice), 188 times (in rats), and 0.6 times (in rabbits) the maximum recommended human dose. Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Teratogenicity studies were conducted in mice and rats with up to 90 mg/kg/day of lisinopril (56 times the maximum recommended human dose) in combination with 10 mg/kg/day of hydrochlorothiazide (2.5 times the maximum recommended human dose. When used in pregnancy, during the second and third trimesters, ACE inhibitors can cause injury and even death to the developing fetus. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide as soon as possible (See Lisinopril, FETAL TOXICITY ). Hydrochlorothiazide Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Teratogenic Effects Reproduction studies in the rabbit, the mouse and the rat at doses up to 100 mg/kg/day (50 times the human dose) showed no evidence of external abnormalities of the fetus due to hydrochlorothiazide. Hydrochlorothiazide given in a two-litter study in rats at doses of 4 mg/kg/day to 5.6 mg/kg/day (approximately 1 to 2 times the usual daily human dose) did not impair fertility or produce birth abnormalities in the offspring. Nonteratogenic Effects These may include fetal or neonatal jaundice, thrombocytopenia, and possibly other adverse reactions have occurred in the adult. Lithium generally should not be given with thiazides (See PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions, Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide ). Fetal Toxicity Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Where there is involvement of the tongue, glottis or larynx, likely to cause airway obstruction, subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1:1000 (0.3 mL to 0.5 mL) and/or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway should be promptly provided (See ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Patients with a history of angioedema unrelated to ACE inhibitor therapy may be at increased risk of angioedema while receiving an ACE inhibitor (see also INDICATIONS AND USAGE and CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Anaphylactoid Reactions During Desensitization : Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions. Anaphylactoid Reactions during Membrane Exposure : Thiazide-containing combination products are not recommended in patients with severe renal dysfunction. Sudden and potentially life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in some patients dialyzed with high-flux membranes (e.g., AN69®*) and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor. Hypotension and Related Effects: Excessive hypotension was rarely seen in uncomplicated hypertensive patients but is a possible consequence of lisinopril use in salt/volume-depleted persons such as those treated vigorously with diuretics or patients on dialysis (See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Syncope has been reported in 0.8 percent of patients receiving lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of syncope may be reduced by proper titration of the individual components (See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , ADVERSE REACTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). In patients with severe congestive heart failure, with or without associated renal insufficiency, excessive hypotension has been observed and may be associated with oliguria and/or progressive azotemia, and rarely with acute renal failure and/or death. Leukopenia/Neutropenia/Agranulocytosis: Another angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has been shown to cause agranulocytosis and bone marrow depression, rarely in uncomplicated patients but more frequently in patients with renal impairment, especially if they also have a collagen vascular disease. WARNINGS Lisinopril Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions: Presumably because angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides, including endogenous bradykinin, patients receiving ACE inhibitors (including ZESTORETIC) may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions, some of them serious. ZESTORETIC should be promptly discontinued and the appropriate therapy and monitoring should be provided until complete and sustained resolution of signs and symptoms has occurred. Sudden and potentially life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in some patients dialyzed with high-flux membranes (e.g., AN69 ® *) and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor. Hypotension and Related Effects: Excessive hypotension was rarely seen in uncomplicated hypertensive patients but is a possible consequence of lisinopril use in salt/volume-depleted persons such as those treated vigorously with diuretics or patients on dialysis (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Syncope has been reported in 0.8 percent of patients receiving ZESTORETIC. The overall incidence of syncope may be reduced by proper titration of the individual components (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions , ADVERSE REACTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). F etal Toxicity Pregnancy category D Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue ZESTORETIC as soon as possible. If oligohydramnios is observed, discontinue ZESTORETIC, unless it is considered lifesaving for the mother. Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to ZESTORETIC for hypotension, oliguria, and hyperkalemia. (See Precautions, Pediatric Use ). Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Teratogenicity studies were conducted in mice and rats with up to 90 mg/kg/day of lisinopril (56 times the maximum recommended human dose) in combination with 10 mg/kg/day of hydrochlorothiazide (2.5 times the maximum recommended human dose). When pregnancy is detected, discontinue ZESTORETIC as soon as possible (see Lisinopril, Fetal Toxicity ). Hydrochlorothiazide Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma: Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Teratogenic Effects: Reproduction studies in the rabbit, the mouse and the rat at doses up to 100 mg/kg/day (50 times the human dose) showed no evidence of external abnormalities of the fetus due to hydrochlorothiazide. Nonteratogenic Effects: These may include fetal or neonatal jaundice, thrombocytopenia, and possibly other adverse reactions have occurred in the adult. Where there is involvement of the tongue, glottis or larynx, likely to cause airway obstruction, subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1:1,000 (0.3 mL to 0.5 mL) and/or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway, should be promptly provided. (See ADVERSE REACTIONS . Hypotension and Related Effects Excessive hypotension was rarely seen in uncomplicated hypertensive patients but is a possible consequence of lisinopril use in salt/volume-depleted persons, such as those treated vigorously with diuretics or patients on dialysis. Neutropenia/Agranulocytosis Another angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has been shown to cause agranulocytosis and bone marrow depression, rarely in uncomplicated patients but more frequently in patients with renal impairment, especially if they also have a collagen vascular disease. Hydrochlorothiazide Studies in which hydrochlorothiazide was orally administered to pregnant mice and rats during their respective periods of major organogenesis at doses up to 3,000 and 1,000 mg/kg/day, respectively, provided no evidence of harm to the fetus. WARNINGS G eneral L isinopril Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions P r e s umably because angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides, including endogenous bradykinin, patients receiving ACE inhibitors (including Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets) may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions, some of them serious. Hypotension and Related Effects E xc essive hypotension was rarely seen in uncomplicated hypertensive patients but is a possible consequence of lisinopril use in salt/volume-depleted persons, such as those treated vigorously with diuretics or patients on dialysis (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Syncope has been reported in 0.8 percent of patients receiving Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets. The overall incidence of syncope may be reduced by proper titration of the individual components(see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , ADVERSE REACTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). H y d r o chlorothiazide Thiazides should be used with caution in severe renal disease. Lithium generally should not be given with thiazides (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide ). F etal Toxicity Pr egnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative therapy to drugs affecting the renin- angiotensin system for a particular patient, apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus. Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets for hypotension, oliguria, and hyperkalemia (see PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ). L isinopril-Hydrochlorothiazide Teratogenicity studies were conducted in mice and rats with up to 90 mg/kg/day of lisinopril in combination with 10 mg/kg/day of hydrochlorothiazide. This dose of lisinopril is 5 times (in mice) and 10 times (in rats) the maximum recommended human daily dose (MRHDD) when compared on a body surface area basis (mg/m2); the dose of hydrochlorothiazide is 0.9 times (in mice) and 1.8 times (in rats) the MRHDD.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product and in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous treatment with an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor and in patients with hereditary or idiopathic angioedema. Because of the hydrochlorothiazide component, this product is contraindicated in patients with anuria or hypersensitivity to other sulfonamide-derived drugs. Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor (e.g., sacubitril). Do not administer lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril/valsartan, a neprilysin inhibitor (see WARNINGS ). Do not coadminister aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. CONTRAINDICATIONS Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this product and in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous treatment with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and in patients with hereditary or idiopathic angioedema. Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide is contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor (e.g., sacubitril). Do not administer Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril/valsartan, a neprilysin inhibitor (see WARNINGS ). Do not co-administer aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this product and in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous treatment with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and in patients with hereditary or idiopathic angioedema. Do not administer Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablet within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril/valsartan, a neprilysin inhibitor (see WARNINGS ). Do not co-administer aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). CONTRAINDICATIONS ZESTORETIC is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this product and in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous treatment with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and in patients with hereditary or idiopathic angioedema. ZESTORETIC is contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor (e.g., sacubitril). Do not administer ZESTORETIC within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril/valsartan, a neprilysin inhibitor (see WARNINGS ). Do not co-administer aliskiren with ZESTORETIC in patients with diabetes (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product and in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous treatment with an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor and in patients with hereditary or idiopathic angioedema. Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets is contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor (e.g., sacubitril).
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Lisinopril Hypotension - Patients on Diuretic Therapy: Patients on diuretics and especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted, may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with lisinopril. The possibility of hypotensive effects with lisinopril can be minimized by either discontinuing the diuretic or increasing the salt intake prior to initiation of treatment with lisinopril. If it is necessary to continue the diuretic, initiate therapy with lisinopril at a dose of 5 mg daily, and provide close medical supervision after the initial dose for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour. (See WARNINGS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) When a diuretic is added to the therapy of a patient receiving lisinopril, an additional antihypertensive effect is usually observed (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) Inhibitors: In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including lisinopril, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving lisinopril and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors, including lisinopril, may be attenuated by NSAIDs. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS): Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or direct renin inhibitors (such as aliskiren) is associated with increased risk of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The VA NEPHRON trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 to 89.9 ml/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR, end state renal disease, or death, but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with PRINZIDE in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). Other Agents: Lisinopril has been used concomitantly with nitrates and/or digoxin without evidence of clinically significant adverse interactions. No meaningful clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions occurred when lisinopril was used concomitantly with propranolol, digoxin, or hydrochlorothiazide. The presence of food in the stomach does not alter the bioavailability of lisinopril. Agents Increasing Serum Potassium: Lisinopril attenuates potassium loss caused by thiazide-type diuretics. Use of lisinopril with potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, eplerenone, triamterene, or amiloride), potassium supplements, or potassium-containing salt substitutes may lead to significant increases in serum potassium. Therefore, if concomitant use of these agents is indicated, because of demonstrated hypokalemia, they should be used with caution and with frequent monitoring of serum potassium. Lithium: Lithium toxicity has been reported in patients receiving lithium concomitantly with drugs which cause elimination of sodium, including ACE inhibitors. Lithium toxicity was usually reversible upon discontinuation of lithium and the ACE inhibitor. It is recommended that serum lithium levels be monitored frequently if lisinopril is administered concomitantly with lithium. Gold: Nitritoid reactions (symptoms include facial flushing, nausea, vomiting and hypotension) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold (sodium aurothiomalate) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitors: Patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitor and mTOR inhibitor (e.g., temsirolimus, sirolimus, everolimus) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema. (see WARNINGS ) Neprilysin Inhibitors: Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema. (see WARNINGS ) Hydrochlorothiazide When administered concurrently the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics. Alcohol, barbiturates, or narcotics - potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur. Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) - dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Other antihypertensive drugs - additive effect or potentiation. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins - Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% and 43%, respectively. Corticosteroids, ACTH - intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia. Pressor amines (e.g., norepinephrine) - possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use. Skeletal muscle relaxants, nondepolarizing (e.g., tubocurarine) - possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant. Lithium - should not generally be given with diuretics. Diuretic agents reduce the renal clearance of lithium and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatoryDrugs - In some patients, the administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is obtained. Drug Interactions Lisinopril Hypotension - Patients on Diuretic Therapy : Patients on diuretics, and especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted, may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with lisinopril. If it is necessary to continue the diuretic, initiate therapy with lisinopril at a dose of 5 mg daily, and provide close medical supervision after the initial dose for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour (See WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) When a diuretic is added to the therapy of a patient receiving lisinopril, an additional antihypertensive effect is usually observed (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy) or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including lisinopril may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS): Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The VA NEPHRON trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30mL/min to 89.9 mL/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors, closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with renal impairment (GFR < 60 mL/min). mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitors Patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitor and mTOR inhibitor (e.g., temsirolimus, sirolimus, everolimus) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema. (see WARNINGS ) Neprilysin Inhibitors Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema. Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) — dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide. Non-Steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs - In some patients, the administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide is obtained. Gold - Nitritoid reactions (symptoms include facial flushing, nausea, vomiting and hypotension) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold (sodium aurothiomalate) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide. If it is necessary to continue the diuretic, initiate therapy with lisinopril at a dose of 5 mg daily, and provide close medical supervision after the initial dose for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour (See WARNINGS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). When a diuretic is added to the therapy of a patient receiving lisinopril, an additional antihypertensive effect is usually observed (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including lisinopril, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The VA NEPHRON trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 mL/min to 89.9 mL/min ), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors, closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR < 60 mL/min). Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent, respectively. Gold: Nitritoid reactions (symptoms include facial flushing, nausea, vomiting and hypotension) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold (sodium aurothiomalate) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide. When a diuretic is added to the therapy of a patient receiving lisinopril, an additional antihypertensive effect is usually observed (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including lisinopril, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. The VA NEPHRON trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 mL/min to 89.9 mL/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors, closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on ZESTORETIC and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with ZESTORETIC in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with ZESTORETIC in patients with renal impairment (GFR < 60 mL/min). mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitors Patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitor and mTOR inhibitor (e.g., temsirolimus, sirolimus, everolimus) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema (see WARNINGS ). Neprilysin Inhibitors Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema (see WARNINGS ). Hydrochlorothiazide When administered concurrently the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics. Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with ZESTORETIC. Therefore, when ZESTORETIC and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of ZESTORETIC is obtained. Gold: Nitritoid reactions (symptoms include facial flushing, nausea, vomiting and hypotension) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold (sodium aurothiomalate) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including ZESTORETIC. Drug Interactions Lisinopril Hypotension - Patients on Diuretic Therapy: Patients on diuretics, and especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted, may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with lisinopril. (See WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) When a diuretic is added to the therapy of a patient receiving lisinopril, an additional antihypertensive effect is usually observed. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) Inhibitors: In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including lisinopril, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Drug Interactions L isinopril Hypotension — Patients on Diuretic Therapy: Patients on diuretics, and especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted, may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with lisinopril. If it is necessary to continue the diuretic, initiate therapy with lisinopril at a dose of 5 mg daily, and provide close medical supervision after the initial dose for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour (see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) Inhibitors: In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including lisinopril, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System ( RAS): Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or direct renin inhibitors (such as aliskiren) is associated with increased risk of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The VA NEPHRON trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 to 89.9 ml/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. Oth er Agents: Lisinopril has been used concomitantly with nitrates and/or digoxin without evidence of clinically significant adverse interactions. L ithium : Lithium toxicity has been reported in patients receiving lithium concomitantly with drugs which cause elimination of sodium, including ACE inhibitors. Go ld: Nitritoid reactions (symptoms include facial flushing, nausea, vomiting and hypotension) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold (sodium aurothiomalate) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets. mTO R (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitors : Patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitor and mTOR inhibitor (e.g., temsirolimus, sirolimus, everolimus) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema (see WARNINGS ). Neprilysin Inhibitors : Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema (see WARNINGS ). H y d r o chlorothiazide When administered concurrently the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics. Alcohol, barbiturates, or narcotics — potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur. Antidiabetic drugs (o r al agents and insulin) — dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Oth er antihypertensive drugs — additive effect or potentiation. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins — Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Corticosteroids, ACTH — intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia. Pr e ssor amines (e.g., norepinephrine) — possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use. S keletal muscle relaxants, nondepolarizing (e.g., tubocurarine) — possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant. L ithium — should not generally be given with diuretics. Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs — In some patients, the administration of a non-steroidal anti- inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium- sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets and non- steroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets is obtained.

=== MECLIZINE HCL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antiemetic
Indications: Uses For the prevention and treatment of nausea, vomiting or dizziness associated with motion sickness. For other uses consult your doctor Uses prevents and treats nausea, vomiting or dizziness associated with motion sickness Uses for the prevention and treatment of nausea, vomiting, or dizziness associated with motion sickness Uses prevents and treats nausea, vomiting or dizziness due to motion sickness.
Dosage: Directions take dose one hour before travel starts tablets can be chewed or swallowed whole with water adults & children 12 years and over: take 1-2 tablets once daily children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions dosage should be taken 1 hour before travel starts adults and children 12 years and over take 2 or 4 caplets once daily or as directed by a doctor Directions do not take more than directed take first dose 1/2 to 1 hour before starting activity adults and children 12 years and over: 1 to 2 tablets once daily, or as directed by a doctor Directions Dosage should be taken one hour before travel starts Adults and children 12 years and older: Chew 1-2 tablets once daily, or as directed by a doctor Children under 12 years: do not give this product to children under 12 years of age unless directed by a doctor Directions do not take more than directed take first dose ½ to 1 hour before starting activity adults and children 12 years and over: 1 to 2 tablets once daily, or as directed by a doctor
Warnings: Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have glaucoma a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis trouble urinating due to an elarged prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product you may get drowsy avoid alcoholic drinks alcohol, sedatives and tranquilizers may increse drowsiness be careful when driving a moor vehicle or operating machinery Warnings Do not use in children under 12 years of age unless directed by a doctor. Do not take unless directed by a doctor if you have glaucoma a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland Do not take if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers, without first consulting your doctor. When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage drowsiness may occur alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness avoid alcoholic drinks be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Warnings Do not use for children under 12 years of age unless directed by a doctor. Ask a doctor before use if you have glaucoma difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers. When using this product drowsiness may occur avoid alcoholic beverages alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness use caution when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Do not use in children under 12 years of age unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have glaucoma a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland Ask a doctor before use if you have difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland glaucoma a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers. When using this product alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness drowsiness may occur use caution when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery avoid alcoholic beverages If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use.

=== MINERAL OIL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Active Ingredients Purpose Mineral oil 14% ..................................................................... Protectant Petrolatum 74.9%................................................................. Protectant Phenylephrine Hydrochloride 0.25% ...............................Vasoconstrictor Purposes Protectant Protectant Vasoconstrictor Uses helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids temporarily shrinks hemorrhoidal tissue and relieve burning temporarily provides a coating for relief of anorectal discomforts temporarily protects the inflamed, irritated anorectal surface to help make bowel movements less painful Uses helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids temporarily shrinks hemorrhoidal tissue and relieves burning temporarily provides a coating for relief of anorectal discomforts temporarily protects the inflamed, irritated anorectal surface to help make bowel movements less painful Purpose Emollient Purpose Sunscreen Purpose Lubricant laxative Purposes Lubricant Purposes Protectant Vasoconstrictor
Indications: Uses 􀁑􀀃Helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids. 􀁑􀀃Temporarily shrinks hemorrhoidal tissue and relieves burning. 􀁑􀀃Temporarily provides a coating for relief of anorectal discomforts. 􀁑􀀃Temporarily protects the inflamed, irritated anorectal surface to help make bowel movements less painful. Uses helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids temporarily shrinks hemorrhoidal tissue and relieves burning temporarily provides a coating for relief of anorectal discomforts temporarily protects the inflamed, irritated anorectal surface to help make bowel movements less painful Directions adults: when practical, cleanse the affected area by patting or blotting with an appropriate cleansing wipe. Gently dry by patting or blotting with a tissue or a soft cloth before applying ointment when first opening tube, peel back foil seal apply to the affected area up to 4 times daily, especially at night, in the morning or after each bowel movement intrarectal use: remove cover from applicator, attach applicator to tube, lubricate applicator well and gently insert applicator into the rectum thoroughly cleanse applicator after each use and replace cover also apply ointment to external area regular use provides continual therapy for relief of symptoms children under 12 years of age: ask a doctor Gently dry by patting or blotting with a tissue or a soft cloth before applying ointment. when first opening the tube, peel back foil seal apply to the affected area up to 4 times daily, especially at night, in the morning or after each bowel movement intrarectal use: remove cover from applicator, attach applicator to tube, lubricate applicator well and gently insert applicator into the rectum thoroughly cleanse applicator after each use and replace cover also apply ointment to external area regular use provides continual therapy for relief of symptoms children under 12 ask a doctor Uses For use as a protectant against further irritation or to relieve dryness of the eye. Uses Helps prevent sunburn If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early aging caused by the sun Uses relieves occasional constipation (irregularity) generally produces bowel movement in 6 to 8 hours Uses ■ For the temporary relief of burning, irritation, and discomfort due to dryness of the eye or exposure to wind or sun. ■ May be used as a protectant against further irritation. Uses • helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids • temporarily shrinks hemorrhoidal tissue and relieves burning • temporarily provides a coating for relief of anorectal discomforts • temporarily protects the inflamed, irritated anorectal surface to help make bowel movements less painful Use for relief of occasional constipation (irregularity). Generally produces bowel movement in 6 to 8 hours.
Dosage: Directions: 􀁑􀀃Adults: when practical, cleanse the affected area by patting or blotting with an appropriate cleansing wipe. Gently dry by patting or blotting with a tissue or a soft cloth before applying ointment. 􀁑􀀃When first opening the tube, puncture foil seal with top end of cap apply to the affected area up to 4 times daily, especially at night, in the morning or after each bowel movement. 􀁑􀀃Intrarectal use: remove cover from applicator, attach applicator to tube, lubricate applicator well and gently insert applicator into the rectum; thoroughly cleanse applicator after each use and replace cover. 􀁑􀀃Also apply ointment to external area. 􀁑􀀃Regular use provides continual therapy for relief of symptoms. 􀁑􀀃Children under 12 years of age: ask a doctor. Directions adults: when practical, cleanse the affected area by patting or blotting with an appropriate cleansing wipe. when first opening the tube, peel off the foil seal apply to the affected area up to 4 times daily, especially at night, in the morning or after each bowel movement intrarectal use: - remove cover from applicator, attach applicator to tube, lubricate applicator well and gently insert applicator into the rectum - thoroughly cleanse applicator after each use and replace cover also apply ointment to external area regular use provides continual therapy for relief of symptoms children under 12 years of age: ask a doctor Distributed by: United Exchange Corp Cypress, CA 90630 USA Made in China DISTRIBUTED BY: WINCO FOODS, LLC, BOISE, ID 83704 MADE IN CHINA Directions Shake well before using. Instill 1 or 2 drops in the affected eye(s) as needed and discard container. Directions apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure. reapply: after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating immediately after towel drying at least every 2 hours children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures . Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun especially from 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses Directions do not take with meals take only at bedtime may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses adults and children 12 years of age and over: oral dosage is a minimal single dose of 15 mL to a maximum daily dose of 45 mL children 6 to under 12 years of age: oral dosage is a minimum single dose of 5 mL to a maximum daily dose of 15 mL children under 6 years, consult a doctor Direction ■ Wash your hands. ■Pull down the lower lid of the affected eye and gently apply a small amount (1/4 inch) of ointment to the inside of the eyelid, every 3-4 hours or as directed by a doctor. Directions • adults: when practical, cleanse the affected area by patting or blotting with an appropriate cleansing wipe. • when first opening the tube, puncture foil seal with top end of cap • apply to the affected area up to 4 times daily, especially at night, in the morning or after each bowel movement • intrarectal use: remove cover from applicator, attach applicator to tube, lubricate applicator well and gently insert applicator into the rectum, thoroughly cleanse applicator after each use and replace cover • also apply ointment to external area • regular use provides continual therapy for relief of symptoms • children under 12 years of age: ask a doctor Other information • store at 20-25°C (68-77°F) Directions do not take with meals take only at bedtime may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses adults and children 12 years of age and over - 1 to 3 Tablespoons (15 to 45 mL) maximum 3 Tablespoons (45 mL) in 24 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age 1 to 3 teaspoons (5 to 15 mL) maximum 3 teaspoons (15 mL) in 24 hours children under 6 years of age do not use, consult a doctor
Warnings: Warnings: Warnings: For external and/or intrarectal use only Warnings For external and/or intrarectal use only Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease high blood pressure thyroid disease diabetes difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug for high blood pressure or depression. When using this product do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if bleeding occurs condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days introduction of applicator into the rectum causes additional pain If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Warnings For external use only / or intrarectal use only Warnings For external and/or intrarectal use only Warnings For use in the eyes only. Warnings For external use only Warnings Do not use in children under 12 years of age, pregnant wormen, bedridden patients or aged, or if you have difficulty swallowing if you are presently taking a stool softener laxative for longer than 1 week Ask a doctor before use if you have abdominal pain, nausea or vomiting noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks When using this product do not take with meals take only at bedtime Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use. These could be signs of a serious condition. If pregnant or breast feeding, ask a health professional before use. As with any drug, if you are nursing a baby, seek the advice of a health professional before using this product Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings ■ For external use only. ■ To avoid contamination, do not touch tip of container to any surface. ■ Keep tube tightly closed. Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ If you experience eye pain, changes in vision, continued redness or irritation of the eye, or if the condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours, discontinue use and consult a doctor. Keep out of reach of Children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Warnings For external and/or intrarectal use only Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug for high blood pressure or depression. When using this product do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if • bleeding occurs • condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days • introduction of applicator into the rectum causes additional pain If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Warnings for this product

=== NALTREXONE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Naltrexone hydrochloride tablets USP 50 mg is indicated in the treatment of alcohol dependence and for the blockade of the effects of exogenously administered opioids. Naltrexone hydrochloride tablets USP 50 mg has not been shown to provide any therapeutic benefit except as part of an appropriate plan of management for the addictions. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Naltrexone hydrochloride tablets are indicated in the treatment of alcohol dependence and for the blockade of the effects of exogenously administered opioids. Naltrexone hydrochloride tablets have not been shown to provide any therapeutic benefit except as part of an appropriate plan of management for the addictions. Naltrexone hydrochloride has not been shown to provide any therapeutic benefit except as part of an appropriate plan of management for the addictions. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Naltrexone Hydrochloride Tablets USP are indicated in the treatment of alcohol dependence and for the blockade of the effects of exogenously administered opioids. Naltrexone Hydrochloride Tablets USP have not been shown to provide any therapeutic benefit except as part of an appropriate plan of management for the addictions.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION To reduce the risk of precipitated withdrawal in patients dependent on opioids, or exacerbation of a preexisting subclinical withdrawal syndrome, opioid-dependent patients, including those being treated for alcohol dependence, should be opioid-free (including tramadol) before starting naltrexone hydrochloride treatment. An opioid-free interval of a minimum of 7 to 10 days is recommended for patients previously dependent on short-acting opioids. Switching from Buprenorphine, Buprenorphine/Naloxone, or Methadone There are no systematically collected data that specifically address the switch from buprenorphine or methadone to naltrexone hydrochloride; however, review of postmarketing case reports have indicated that some patients may experience severe manifestations of precipitated withdrawal when being switched from opioid agonist therapy to opioid antagonist therapy (see WARNINGS ).Patients transitioning from buprenorphine or methadone may be vulnerable to precipitation of withdrawal symptoms for as long as 2 weeks. Healthcare providers should be prepared to manage withdrawal symptomatically with non-opioid medications. Treatment of Alcoholism A dose of 50 mg once daily is recommended for most patients The placebo-controlled studies that demonstrated the efficacy of naltrexone hydrochloride as an adjunctive treatment of alcoholism used a dose regimen of naltrexone hydrochloride 50 mg once daily for up to 12 weeks. Other dose regimens or durations of therapy were not evaluated in these trials. Naltrexone hydrochloride should be considered as only one of many factors determining the success of treatment of alcoholism. Factors associated with a good outcome in the clinical trials with naltrexone hydrochloride were the type, intensity, and duration of treatment; appropriate management of comorbid conditions; use of community-based support groups; and good medication compliance. To achieve the best possible treatment outcome, appropriate compliance-enhancing techniques should be implemented for all components of the treatment program, especially medication compliance. Treatment of Opioid Dependence Treatment should be initiated with an initial dose of 25 mg of naltrexone hydrochloride. If no withdrawal signs occur, the patient may be started on 50 mg a day thereafter. A dose of 50 mg once a day will produce adequate clinical blockade of the actions of parenterally administered opioids. As with many non-agonist treatments for addiction, naltrexone hydrochloride is of proven value only when given as part of a comprehensive plan of management that includes some measure to ensure the patient takes the medication. Naloxone Challenge Test Clinicians are reminded that there is no completely reliable method for determining whether a patient has had an adequate opioid-free period. A naloxone challenge test may be helpful if there is any question of occult opioid dependence,If signs of opioid withdrawal are still observed following naloxone challenge, treatment with, naltrexone hydrochloride should not be attempted. The naloxone challenge can be repeated in 24 hours. The naloxone challenge test should not be performed in a patient showing clinical signs or symptoms of opioid withdrawal, or in a patient whose urine contains opioids. The naloxone challenge test may be administered by either the intravenous or subcutaneous routes. Intravenous Inject 0.2 mg naloxone. Observe for 30 seconds for signs or symptoms of withdrawal. If no evidence of withdrawal, inject 0.6 mg of naloxone. Observe for an additional 20 minutes. Subcutaneous Administer 0.8 mg naloxone. Observe for 20 minutes for signs or symptoms of withdrawal. Note: Individual patients, especially those with opioid dependence, may respond to lower doses of naloxone. In some cases, 0.1 mg IV naloxone has produced a diagnostic response. Interpretation of the Challenge Monitor vital signs and observe the patient for signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal. These may include but are not limited to: nausea, vomiting, dysphoria, yawning, sweating, tearing, rhinorrhea, stuffy nose, craving for opioids, poor appetite, abdominal cramps, sense of fear, skin erythema, disrupted sleep patterns, fidgeting, uneasiness, poor ability to focus, mental lapses, muscle aches or cramps, pupillary dilation, piloerection, fever, changes in blood pressure, pulse or temperature, anxiety, depression, irritability, backache, bone or joint pains, tremors, sensations of skin crawling, or fasciculations. If signs or symptoms of withdrawal appear, the test is positive and no additional naloxone should be administered. Warning: If the test is positive, do NOT initiate naltrexone hydrochloride therapy. Repeat the challenge in 24 hours. If the test is negative, naltrexone hydrochloride therapy may be started if no other contraindications are present. If there is any doubt about the result of the test, hold naltrexone hydrochloride and repeat the challenge in 24 hours. Alternative Dosing Schedules A flexible approach to a dosing regimen may need to be employed in cases of supervised administration. Thus, patients may receive naltrexone hydrochloride tablets 50 mg every weekday with a 100 mg dose on Saturday, 100 mg every other day, or 150 mg every third day. The degree of blockade produced by naltrexone hydrochloride may be reduced by these extended dosing intervals. There may be a higher risk of hepatocellular injury with single doses above 50 mg, and use of higher doses and extended dosing intervals should balance the possible risks against the probable benefits (see WARNINGS .) Patient Compliance Naltrexone hydrochloride should be considered as only one of many factors determining the success of treatment. To achieve the best possible treatment outcome, appropriate compliance-enhancing techniques should be implemented for all components of the treatment program, including medication compliance. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION To reduce the risk of precipitated withdrawal in patients dependent on opioids, or exacerbation of a preexisting subclinical withdrawal syndrome, opioid-dependent patients, including those being treated for alcohol dependence, should be opioid-free (including tramadol) before starting naltrexone treatment. Switching from Buprenorphine, Buprenorphine/Naloxone, or Methadone There are no systematically collected data that specifically address the switch from buprenorphine or methadone to naltrexone; however, review of postmarketing case reports have indicated that some patients may experience severe manifestations of precipitated withdrawal when being switched from opioid agonist therapy to opioid antagonist therapy ( see WARNINGS ). Patients transitioning from buprenorphine or methadone may be vulnerable to precipitation of withdrawal symptoms for as long as 2 weeks. Treatment of Alcoholism A dose of 50 mg once daily is recommended for most patients. The placebo-controlled studies that demonstrated the efficacy of naltrexone as an adjunctive treatment of alcoholism used a dose regimen of naltrexone 50 mg once daily for up to 12 weeks. Naltrexone should be considered as only one of many factors determining the success of treatment of alcoholism. Factors associated with a good outcome in the clinical trials with naltrexone were the type, intensity, and duration of treatment; appropriate management of comorbid conditions; use of community-based support groups; and good medication compliance. Treatment of Opioid Dependence Treatment should be initiated with an initial dose of 25 mg of naltrexone. As with many non-agonist treatments for addiction, naltrexone is of proven value only when given as part of a comprehensive plan of management that includes some measure to ensure the patient takes the medication. A naloxone challenge test may be helpful if there is any question of occult opioid dependence. If signs of opioid withdrawal are still observed following naloxone challenge, treatment with naltrexone should not be attempted. These may include, but are not limited to: nausea, vomiting, dysphoria, yawning, sweating, tearing, rhinorrhea, stuffy nose, craving for opioids, poor appetite, abdominal cramps, sense of fear, skin erythema, disrupted sleep patterns, fidgeting, uneasiness, poor ability to focus, mental lapses, muscle aches or cramps, pupillary dilation, piloerection, fever, changes in blood pressure, pulse or temperature, anxiety, depression, irritability, backache, bone or joint pains, tremors, sensations of skin crawling or fasciculations. Warning: If the test is positive, do NOT initiate naltrexone therapy. If the test is negative, naltrexone therapy may be started if no other contraindications are present. If there is any doubt about the result of the test, hold naltrexone and repeat the challenge in 24 hours. Thus, patients may receive 50 mg of naltrexone hydrochloride every weekday with a 100 mg dose on Saturday, 100 mg every other day, or 150 mg every third day. The degree of blockade produced by naltrexone may be reduced by these extended dosing intervals. There may be a higher risk of hepatocellular injury with single doses above 50 mg, and use of higher doses and extended dosing intervals should balance the possible risks against the probable benefits ( see WARNINGS ). Patient Compliance Naltrexone should be considered as only one of many factors determining the success of treatment. Switching from Buprenorphine, Buprenorphine/Naloxone, or Methadone There are no systematically collected data that specifically address the switch from buprenorphine or methadone to naltrexone hydrochloride; however, review of postmarketing case reports have indicated that some patients may experience severe manifestations of precipitated withdrawal when being switched from opioid agonist therapy to opioid antagonist therapy (see WARNINGS ). The placebo-controlled studies that demonstrated the efficacy of naltrexone hydrochloride as an adjunctive treatment of alcoholism used a dose regimen of naltrexone hydrochloride 50 mg once daily for up to 12 weeks. If signs of opioid withdrawal are still observed following naloxone challenge, treatment with naltrexone hydrochlorideshould not be attempted. Intravenous: Inject 0.2 mg naloxone. Subcutaneous: Administer 0.8 mg naloxone. There may be a higher risk of hepatocellular injury with single doses above 50 mg, and use of higher doses and extended dosing intervals should balance the possible risks against the probable benefits (see WARNINGS ). Patient Compliance Naltrexone hydrochloride should be considered as only one of many factors determining the success of treatment. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION To reduce the risk of precipitated withdrawal in patients dependent on opioids, or exacerbation of a preexisting subclinical withdrawal syndrome, opioid-dependent patients, including those being treated for alcohol dependence, should be opioid-free (including tramadol) before starting naltrexone hydrochloride tablets treatment. Switching from Buprenorphine, Buprenorphine/Naloxone, or Methadone There are no systematically collected data that specifically address the switch from buprenorphine or methadone to naltrexone hydrochloride tablets; however, review of postmarketing case reports have indicated that some patients may experience severe manifestations of precipitated withdrawal when being switched from opioid agonist therapy to opioid antagonist therapy (see WARNINGS ). Naltrexone hydrochloride tablets should be considered as only one of many factors determining the success of treatment of alcoholism. Factors associated with a good outcome in the clinical trials with naltrexone hydrochloride tablets were the type, intensity, and duration of treatment; appropriate management of comorbid conditions; use of community-based support groups; and good medication compliance. Treatment of Opioid Dependence Treatment should be initiated with an initial dose of 25 mg of naltrexone hydrochloride tablets. As with many non-agonist treatments for addiction, naltrexone hydrochloride tablets are of proven value only when given as part of a comprehensive plan of management that includes some measure to ensure the patient takes the medication. Naloxone Challenge Test: Clinicians are reminded that there is no completely reliable method for determining whether a patient has had an adequate opioid-free period. If signs of opioid withdrawal are still observed following naloxone challenge, treatment with naltrexone hydrochloride tablets should not be attempted. If there is any doubt about the result of the test, hold naltrexone hydrochloride tablets and repeat the challenge in 24 hours. Patient Compliance Naltrexone hydrochloride tablets should be considered as only one of many factors determining the success of treatment.
Warnings: WARNINGS Vulnerability to Opioid Overdose After opioid detoxification, patients are likely to have reduced tolerance to opioids. As the blockade of exogenous opioids provided by naltrexone hydrochloride wanes and eventually dissipates completely, patients who have been treated with naltrexone hydrochloride may respond to lower doses of opioids than previously used, just as they would shortly after completing detoxification. This could result in potentially life-threatening opioid intoxication (respiratory compromise or arrest, circulatory collapse, etc.) if the patient uses previously tolerated doses of opioids. Cases of opioid overdose with fatal outcomes have been reported in patients after discontinuing treatment. Patients should be alerted that they may be more sensitive to opioids, even at lower doses, after naltrexone hydrochloride treatment is discontinued. It is important that patients inform family members, and the people closest to the patient of this increased sensitivity to opioids and the risk of overdose. (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients ). There is also the possibility that a patient who is treated with naltrexone hydrochloride could overcome the opioid blockade effect of naltrexone hydrochloride. Although naltrexone hydrochloride is a potent antagonist , the blockade produced by naltrexone hydrochloride is surmountable. The plasma concentration of exogenous opioids attained immediately following their acute administration may be sufficient to overcome the competitive receptor blockade. This poses a potential risk to individuals who attempt, on their own, to overcome the blockade by administering large amounts of exogenous opioids.Any attempt by a patient to overcome the antagonism by taking opioids is especially dangerous and may lead to life-threatening opioid intoxication or fatal overdose. Patients should be told of the serious consequences of trying to overcome the opioid blockade (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients ). Precipitated Opioid Withdrawal The symptoms of spontaneous opioid withdrawal (which are associated with the discontinuation of opioid in a dependent individual) are uncomfortable, but they are not generally believed to be severe or necessitate hospitalization. However, when withdrawal is precipitated abruptly by the administration of an opioid antagonist to an opioid-dependent patient, the resulting withdrawal syndrome can be severe enough to require hospitalization. Symptoms of withdrawal have usually appeared within five minutes of ingestion of naltrexone hydrochloride and have lasted for up to 48 hours. Mental status changes including confusion, somnolence and visual hallucinations have occurred. Significant fluid losses from vomiting and diarrhea have required intravenous fluid administration. Review of postmarketing cases of precipitated opioid withdrawal in association with naltrexone treatment has identified cases with symptoms of withdrawal severe enough to require hospital admission, and in some cases, management in the intensive care unit. To prevent occurrence of precipitated withdrawal in patients dependent on opioids, or exacerbation of a pre-existing subclinical withdrawal syndrome, opioid-dependent patients, including those being treated for alcohol dependence, should be opioid-free (including tramadol) before starting naltrexone hydrochloride treatment. An opioid-free interval of a minimum of 7 to 10 days is recommended for patients previously dependent on short-acting opioids. Patients transitioning from buprenorphine or methadone may be vulnerable to precipitation of withdrawal symptoms for as long as two weeks. If a more rapid transition from agonist to antagonist therapy is deemed necessary and appropriate by the healthcare provider, monitor the patient closely in an appropriate medical setting where precipitated withdrawal can be managed. In every case, healthcare providers should always be prepared to manage withdrawal symptomatically with non-opioid medications because there is no completely reliable method for determining whether a patient has had an adequate opioid-free period. A naloxone challenge test may be helpful; however, a few case reports have indicated that patients may experience precipitated withdrawal despite having a negative urine toxicology screen or tolerating a naloxone challenge test (usually in the setting of transitioning from buprenorphine treatment). Patients should be made aware of the risks associated with precipitated withdrawal and encouraged to give an accurate account of last opioid use. Patients treated for alcohol dependence with naltrexone hydrochloride should also be assessed for underlying opioid dependence and for any recent use of opioids prior to initiation of treatment with naltrexone hydrochloride. Precipitated opioid withdrawal has been observed in alcohol-dependent patients in circumstances where the prescriber had been unaware of the additional use of opioids or co-dependence on opioids. Hepatotoxicity Cases of hepatitis and clinically significant liver dysfunction were observed in association with naltrexone hydrochloride exposure during the clinical development program and in the postmarketing period. Transient, asymptomatic hepatic transaminase elevations were also observed in the clinical trials and postmarketing period. When patients presented with elevated transaminases, there were often other potential causative or contributory etiologies identified, including pre-existing alcoholic liver disease, hepatitis B and/or C infection, and concomitant usage of other potentially hepatotoxic drugs. Although clinically significant liver dysfunction is not typically recognized as a manifestation of opioid withdrawal, opioid withdrawal that is precipitated abruptly may lead to systemic sequelae, including acute liver injury. Patients should be warned of the risk of hepatic injury and advised to seek medical attention if they experience symptoms of acute hepatitis. Use of naltrexone hydrochloride should be discontinued in the event of symptoms and/or signs of acute hepatitis. Depression and Suicidality Depression, suicide, attempted suicide and suicidal ideation have been reported in the postmarketing experience with naltrexone hydrochloride used in the treatment of opioid dependence. No causal relationship has been demonstrated. In the literature, endogenous opioids have been theorized to contribute to a variety of conditions. Alcohol-and opioid-dependent patients, including those taking naltrexone hydrochloride, should be monitored for the development of depression or suicidal thinking. Families and caregivers of patients being treated with naltrexone hydrochloride should be alerted to the need to monitor patients for the emergence of symptoms of depression or suicidality, and to report such symptoms to the patient’s healthcare provider. As the blockade of exogenous opioids provided by naltrexone wanes and eventually dissipates completely, patients who have been treated with naltrexone may respond to lower doses of opioids than previously used, just as they would shortly after completing detoxification. Patients should be alerted that they may be more sensitive to opioids, even at lower doses, after naltrexone treatment is discontinued. It is important that patients inform family members, and the people closest to the patient of this increased sensitivity to opioids and the risk of overdose ( see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients ). There is also the possibility that a patient who is treated with naltrexone could overcome the opioid blockade effect of naltrexone. Although naltrexone is a potent antagonist, the blockade produced by naltrexone is surmountable. This poses a potential risk to individuals who attempt, on their own, to overcome the blockade by administering large amounts of exogenous opioids. Any attempt by a patient to overcome the antagonism by taking opioids is especially dangerous and may lead to life-threatening opioid intoxication or fatal overdose. Patients should be told of the serious consequences of trying to overcome the opioid blockade ( see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients ). Symptoms of withdrawal have usually appeared within five minutes of ingestion of naltrexone and have lasted for up to 48 hours. To prevent occurrence of precipitated withdrawal in patients dependent on opioids, or exacerbation of a pre-existing subclinical withdrawal syndrome, opioid-dependent patients, including those being treated for alcohol dependence, should be opioid-free (including tramadol) before starting naltrexone treatment. Patients treated for alcohol dependence with naltrexone should also be assessed for underlying opioid dependence and for any recent use of opioids prior to initiation of treatment with naltrexone. Hepatotoxicity Cases of hepatitis and clinically significant liver dysfunction were observed in association with naltrexone exposure during the clinical development program and in the postmarketing period. Use of naltrexone should be discontinued in the event of symptoms and/or signs of acute hepatitis. Depression and Suicidality Depression, suicide, attempted suicide and suicidal ideation have been reported in the postmarketing experience with naltrexone used in the treatment of opioid dependence. Alcohol- and opioid-dependent patients, including those taking naltrexone, should be monitored for the development of depression or suicidal thinking. Families and caregivers of patients being treated with naltrexone should be alerted to the need to monitor patients for the emergence of symptoms of depression or suicidality, and to report such symptoms to the patient’s healthcare provider. Ultra Rapid Opioid Withdrawal Safe use of naltrexone in ultra rapid opiate detoxification programs has not been established ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). It is important that patients inform family members, and the people closest to the patient of this increased sensitivity to opioids and the risk of overdose (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients ). Although naltrexone hydrochloride is a potent antagonist, the blockade produced by naltrexone hydrochloride is surmountable. To prevent occurrence of precipitated withdrawal in patients dependent on opioids, or exacerbation of a preexisting subclinical withdrawal syndrome, opioid-dependent patients, including those being treated for alcohol dependence, should be opioid-free (including tramadol) before starting naltrexone hydrochloride treatment. When patients presented with elevated transaminases, there were often other potential causative or contributory etiologies identified, including preexisting alcoholic liver disease, hepatitis B and/or C infection, and concomitant usage of other potentially hepatotoxic drugs. Ultra Rapid Opioid Withdrawal: Safe use of naltrexone hydrochloride in ultra rapid opiate detoxification programs has not been established (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). It is important that patients inform family members, and the people closest to the patient of this increased sensitivity ot opioids and the risk of overdose (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients ). Alcohol- and opioid-dependent patients, including those taking naltrexone hydrochloride, should be monitored for the development of depression or suicidal thinking. Families and caregivers of patients being treated with naltrexone hydrochloride should be alerted to the need to monitor patients for the emergence of symptoms of depression or suicidality, and to report such symptoms to the patient's healthcare provider. Ultra Rapid Opioid Withdrawal Safe use of naltrexone in ultra rapid opiate detoxification programs has not been established (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). It is important that patients inform family members, and the people closest to the patient of this increased sensitivity ot opioids and the risk of overdose (see PRECATIONS, Information for Patients ).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Naltrexone hydrochloride is contraindicated in Patients receiving opioid analgesics. Patients currently dependent on opioids, including those currently maintained on opiate agonists (e.g., methadone ) or partial agonists (e.g., buprenorphine) Patients in acute opioid withdrawal (see WARNINGS ). Any individual who has failed the naloxone challenge test or who has a positive urine screen for opioids. Any individual with a history of sensitivity to naltrexone hydrochloride or any other components of this product.It is not known if there is any cross-sensitivity with naloxone or the phenanthrene containing opioids. CONTRAINDICATIONS Naltrexone is contraindicated in: 1. Patients receiving opioid analgesics. 2. Patients currently dependent on opioids, including those currently maintained on opiate agonists (e.g., methadone) or partial agonists (e.g., buprenorphine). 3. Patients in acute opioid withdrawal ( see WARNINGS ). 4. 5. Any individual with a history of sensitivity to naltrexone or any other components of this product. It is not known if there is any cross-sensitivity with naloxone or the phenanthrene containing opioids. CONTRAINDICATIONS Naltrexone hydrochloride is contraindicated in: Patients receiving opioid analgesics. Patients currently dependent on opioids, including those currently maintained on opiate agonists [e.g., methadone) or partial agonists (e.g., buprenorphine). Patients in acute opioid withdrawal (see WARNINGS ). Any individual with a history of sensitivity to naltrexone hydrochloride or any other components of this product.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Studies to evaluate possible interactions between naltrexone hydrochloride and drugs other than opiates have not been performed. Consequently, caution is advised if the concomitant administration of naltrexone hydrochloride and other drugs is required. The safety and efficacy of concomitant use of naltrexone hydrochloride and disulfiram is unknown, and the concomitant use of two potentially hepatotoxic medications is not ordinarily recommended unless the probable benefits outweigh the known risks. Lethargy and somnolence have been reported following doses of naltrexone hydrochloride and thioridazine. Patients taking naltrexone hydrochloride may not benefit from opioid containing medicines, such as cough and cold preparations, antidiarrheal preparations, and opioid analgesics. In an emergency situation when opioid analgesia must be administered to a patient receiving naltrexone hydrochloride, the amount of opioid required may be greater than usual, and the resulting respiratory depression may be deeper and more prolonged (see PRECAUTIONS ) Drug Interactions Studies to evaluate possible interactions between naltrexone and drugs other than opiates have not been performed. Consequently, caution is advised if the concomitant administration of naltrexone and other drugs is required. The safety and efficacy of concomitant use of naltrexone and disulfiram is unknown, and the concomitant use of two potentially hepatotoxic medications is not ordinarily recommended unless the probable benefits outweigh the known risks. Lethargy and somnolence have been reported following doses of naltrexone and thioridazine. Patients taking naltrexone may not benefit from opioid containing medicines, such as cough and cold preparations, antidiarrheal preparations, and opioid analgesics. In an emergency situation when opioid analgesia must be administered to a patient receiving naltrexone, the amount of opioid required may be greater than usual, and the resulting respiratory depression may be deeper and more prolonged ( see PRECAUTIONS ). In an emergency situation when opioid analgesia must be administered to a patient receiving naltrexone hydrochloride, the amount of opioid required may be greater than usual, and the resulting respiratory depression may be deeper and more prolonged (see PRECAUTIONS ).

=== OCTINOXATE AND TITANIUM DIOXIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Active ingredients Purpose OCTINOXATE 4.4% Sunscreen TITANIUM DIOXIDE 1.2% Sunscreen Purpose Sunscreen Active ingredients Purpose Octinoxate 4.9% Sunscreen Titanium Dioxide 5.8% Sunscreen Active ingredients Purpose OCTINOXATE 2.9% Sunscreen TITANIUM DIOXIDE 7.2% Sunscreen Active ingredients Purpose OCTINOXATE 4.9% Sunscreen TITANIUM DIOXIDE 15.0% Sunscreen ACTIVE INGREDIENTS W/W Purpose OCTINOXATE 7% Sunscreen TITANIUM DIOXIDE 4.15% Sunscreen ZINC OXIDE 9.8% Sunscreen Active Ingredients Purpose Octinoxate 5.00% Sunscreen Titanium Dioxide 2.00% Sunscreen Active ingredients Purpose Octinoxate 2.0% Sunscreen Titanium Dioxide 2.3% Sunscreen
Indications: Uses helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Uses helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun USE Helps prevent sunburn. If used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ), decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun. Use helps prevent sunburn Uses helps prevent sunburn if used as directed with other sun protection measures (see Directions ) decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun
Dosage: Directions For sunscreen use: apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating reapply at least every two hours Sun Protection Measures . Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses children under 6 months: Ask a doctor Directions For sunscreen use: ● shake well ● apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure ● reapply at least every 2 hours ● use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating ● Sun Protection Measures . To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: ● limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. ● wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses ● children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor Directions For sunscreen use: apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating reapply at least every 2 hours children under 6 months: ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures . wear long-sleeve shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses Directions For sunscreen use: shake well before use apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats and sunglasses children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor Directions For sunscreen use: apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply: after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating immediately after towel drying at least every 2 hours Sun Protection Measures . DIRECTIONS Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure. Reapply at least every 2 hours. Use a water-resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating. Sun Protection Measures. To decrease this risk, regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including: Limit time in the sun, especially from 10 a.m. Wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats, and sunglasses. Children under 6 months of age: Ask a doctor. Directions For sunscreen use: apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply every two hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures. - 2 p.m wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, hats and sunglasses. children under 6 months of age: ask a doctor Directions For sunscreen use: apply liberally and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every two hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures.
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes. Rinse with water to remove. Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs. Keep out of reach of children. If product is swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children. Flammable Do not use near heat, flame, or while smoking. WARNINGS For external use only When using this product keep out of eyes. Do not use on damaged or broken skin.

=== PROCHLORPERAZINE MALEATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: For control of severe nausea and vomiting. For the treatment of schizophrenia. Prochlorperazine is effective for the short-term treatment of generalized non-psychotic anxiety. However, prochlorperazine is not the first drug to be used in therapy for most patients with non-psychotic anxiety, because certain risks associated with its use are not shared by common alternative treatments (e.g., benzodiazepines). When used in the treatment of non-psychotic anxiety, prochlorperazine should not be administered at doses of more than 20 mg per day or for longer than 12 weeks, because the use of prochlorperazine at higher doses or for longer intervals may cause persistent tardive dyskinesia that may prove irreversible (see WARNINGS). The effectiveness of prochlorperazine as treatment for non-psychotic anxiety was established in 4-week clinical studies of outpatients with generalized anxiety disorder. This evidence does not predict that prochlorperazine will be useful in patients with other non-psychotic conditions in which anxiety, or signs that mimic anxiety, are found (e.g., physical illness, organic mental conditions, agitated depression, character pathologies, etc.). Prochlorperazine has not been shown effective in the management of behavioral complications in patients with mental retardation. INDICATIONS & USAGE For control of severe nausea and vomiting. When used in the treatment of non-psychotic anxiety, prochlorperazine should not be administered at doses of more than 20 mg per day or for longer than 12 weeks, because the use of prochlorperazine at higher doses or for longer intervals may cause persistent tardive dyskinesia that may prove irreversible (see WARNINGS) . INDICATIONS AND USAGE For control of severe nausea and vomiting. Prochlorperazine maleate tablets are effective for the short-term treatment of generalized non-psychotic anxiety. However, prochlorperazine maleate tablets are not the first drug to be used in therapy for most patients with non-psychotic anxiety, because certain risks associated with its use are not shared by common alternative treatments (e.g., benzodiazepines). When used in the treatment of non-psychotic anxiety, prochlorperazine maleate tablets should not be administered at doses of more than 20 mg per day or for longer than 12 weeks because the use of prochlorperazine maleate tablets at higher doses or for longer intervals may cause persistent tardive dyskinesia that may prove irreversible (see WARNINGS ). The effectiveness of prochlorperazine maleate tablets as treatment for non-psychotic anxiety was established in 4-week clinical studies of outpatients with generalized anxiety disorder. This evidence does not predict that prochlorperazine maleate tablets will be useful in patients with other non-psychotic conditions in which anxiety, or signs that mimic anxiety, are found (e.g., physical illness, organic mental conditions, agitated depression, character pathologies, etc.). Prochlorperazine maleate tablets have not been shown effective in the management of behavioral complications in patients with mental retardation. When used in the treatment of non-psychotic anxiety, prochlorperazine should not be administered at doses of more than 20 mg per day or for longer than 12 weeks, because the use of prochlorperazine at higher doses or for longer intervals may cause persistent tardive dyskinesia that may prove irreversible (see WARNINGS ). The effectiveness of prochlorperazine as treatment for non-psychotic anxiety was established in 4- week clinical studies of outpatients with generalized anxiety disorder. When used in the treatment of non-psychotic anxiety, prochlorperazine maleate tablets should not be administered at doses of more than 20 mg per day or for longer than 12 weeks, because the use of prochlorperazine maleate tablets at higher doses or for longer intervals may cause persistent tardive dyskinesia that may prove irreversible (see WARNINGS ). This evidence does not predict that prochlorperazine maleate tablets will be useful in patients with other non-psychotic conditions in which anxiety, or signs that mimic anxiety, are found (e.g., physical illness, organic mental conditions, agitated depression, character pathologies, etc.) Prochlorperazine maleate tablets has not been shown effective in the management of behavioral complications in patients with mental retardation.
Dosage: (For children’s dosage and administration, see below.) Dosage should be increased more gradually in debilitated or emaciated patients. Elderly Patients: In general, dosages in the lower range are sufficient for most elderly patients. Since they appear to be more susceptible to hypotension and neuromuscular reac­tions, such patients should be observed closely. Dosage should be tailored to the individual, response carefully moni­tored and dosage adjusted accordingly. Dosage should be increased more gradually in elderly patients. 1.To Control Severe Nausea and Vomiting: Adjust dosage to the response of the individual. Begin with the lowest recommended dosage. Oral Dosage-Tablets: Usually one 5mg or 10mg tablet 3 or 4 times daily. Daily dosages above 40 mgs should be used only in resistant cases. 2.In Adult Psychiatric Disorders: Adjust dosage to the response of the individual and according to the severity of the condition. Begin with the lowest recom­mended dose. Although response ordinarily is seen within a day or 2, longer treatment is usually required before maximal improvement is seen. Oral Dosage: Non-Psychotic Anxiety--Usual dosage is 5 mg 3 or4 times daily. Do not administer in doses of more than 20mg per day or for longer than 12 weeks. Psychotic Disorders including Schizophrenia--In relatively mild conditions, as seen in private psychiatric practice or in out patient clinics, dosage is 5 or 10 mg 3 or 4 times daily. In moderate to severe conditions, for hospitalized or adequate­ly supervised patients, usual starting dosage is 10 mg 3 or 4 times daily. Increase dosage gradually until symptoms are con­trolled or side effects become bothersome. When dosage is increased by small increments every 2 or 3 days, side effects either do not occur or are easily controlled. Some patients respond satisfactorily on 50 to 75mg daily. In more severe dis­turbances, optimum dosage is usually 100 to 150mg daily. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION--CHILDREN Do not use in pediatric surgery. Children seem more prone to develop extrapyramidal reac­tions, even on moderate doses. Therefore, use lowest effec­tive dosage. Tell parents not to exceed prescribed dosage, since the possibility for adverse reactions increases as dosage rises. Occasionally the patient may react to the drug with signs of restlessness and excitement; if this occurs, do not administer additional doses. Take particular precaution in administering the drug to children with acute illnesses or dehydration (see under Dystonias). 1. Severe Nausea and Vomiting in Children: Prochlorperazine should not be used in pediatric patients under 20 pounds in weight or 2 years of age. It should not be used in conditions for which children’s dosages have not been established. Dosage and frequency of administration should be adjusted according to the severity of the symptoms and the response of the patient. The duration of activity following intra­muscular administration may last up to 12 hours. Subsequent doses may be given by the same route if necessary. Oral Dosage: More than 1 day’s therapy is seldom necessary. Weight Usual Dosage Not to Exceed under 20 lbs not recommended 20 to 29 lbs 2½ mg 1 or 2 times a day 7.5 mg per day 30 to 39 lbs 2½ mg 2 or 3 times a day 10 mg per day 40 to 85 lbs 2½ mg 3 times a day or 5 mg 2 times a day 15 mg per day 2. Children with schizophrenia: Oral Dosage: For children 2 to 12 years, starting dosage is 21/2 mg 2 or 3 times daily. Do not give more than 10 mg the first day. Then increase dosage according to patient’s response. FOR AGES 2 to 5, total daily dosage usually does not exceed 20 mg. FOR AGES 6 to 12, total daily dosage usually does not exceed 25 mg. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION ADULTS (For children’s dosage and administration, see below.) Dosage should be increased more gradually in debilitated or emaciated patients. Since they appear to be more susceptible to hypotension and neuromuscular reactions, such patients should be observed closely. Dosage should be tailored to the individual, response carefully monitored and dosage adjusted accordingly. To Control Severe Nausea and Vomiting: Adjust dosage to the response of the individual. Daily dosages above 40 mg should be used only in resistant cases. 2. In Adult Psychiatric Disorders: Adjust dosage to the response of the individual and according to the severity of the condition. Begin with the lowest recommended dose. Oral Dosage: Non-Psychotic Anxiety--Usual dosage is 5 mg 3 or 4 times daily. Do not administer in doses of more than 20 mg per day or for longer than 12 weeks. Psychotic Disorders including Schizophrenia --In relatively mild conditions, as seen in private psychiatric practice or in out patient clinics, dosage is 5 or 10 mg 3 or 4 times daily. In moderate to severe conditions, for hospitalized or adequately supervised patients, usual starting dosage is 10 mg 3 or 4 times daily. Increase dosage gradually until symptoms are controlled or side effects become bothersome. In more severe disturbances, optimum dosage is usually 100 to 150mg daily. CHILDREN Do not use in pediatric surgery. Children seem more prone to develop extrapyramidal reactions, even on moderate doses. Therefore, use lowest effective dosage. The duration of activity following intramuscular administration may last up to 12 hours. Oral Dosage: More than 1 day’s therapy is seldom necessary Weight Usual Dosage Not to Exceed under 20 lbs not recommended 20 to 29 lbs 2½ mg 1 or 2 times a day 7.5 mg per day 30 to 39 lbs 2½ mg 2 or 3 times a day 10 mg per day 40 to 85 lbs 2½ mg 3 times a day or 5 mg 2 times a day 15 mg per day 2. Children with schizophrenia: Oral Dosage: For children 2 to 12 years, starting dosage is 2½ mg 2 or 3 times daily. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ADULTS (For children’s dosage and administration, see below). Dosage should be increased more gradually in debilitated or emaciated patients. Dosage should be tailored to the individual, response carefully moni­tored, and dosage adjusted accordingly. Oral Dosage-Tablets: Usually one 5 mg or 10 mg tablet, 3 times or 4 times daily. Oral Dosage: Non-Psychotic-Anxiety -Usual dosage is 5 mg, 3 times or 4 times daily. Psychotic Disorders including Schizophrenia - In relatively mild conditions , as seen in private psychiatric practice or in outpatient clinics, dosage is 5 mg or 10 mg, 3 times or 4 times daily. In moderate to severe conditions, for hospitalized or adequate­ly supervised patients, usual starting dosage is 10 mg, 3 times or 4 times daily. When dosage is increased by small increments every 2 days or 3 days, side effects either do not occur or are easily controlled. Some patients respond satisfactorily on 50 mg to 75 mg daily. In more severe dis­turbances, optimum dosage is usually 100 mg to 150 mg daily. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION CHILDREN Do not use in pediatric surgery. Severe Nausea and Vomiting in Children: Prochlorperazine maleate tablets should not be used in pediatric patients under 20 pounds in weight or 2 years of age. Weight Usual Dosage Not to Exceed under 20 lbs not recommended 20 lbs to 29 lbs 2½ mg, 1 time or 2 times a day 7.5 mg per day 30 lbs to 39 lbs 2½ mg, 2 times or 3 times a day 10 mg per day 40 lbs to 85 lbs 2½ mg, 3 times a day or 5 mg, 2 times a day 15 mg per day 2. Children with Schizophrenia: Oral Dosage: For children 2 years to 12 years, starting dosage is 2½ mg, 2 times or 3 times daily. FOR AGES 2 years to 5 years, total daily dosage usually does not exceed 20 mg. FOR AGES 6 years to 12 years, total daily dosage usually does not exceed 25 mg. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION - ADULTS (For children's dosage and administration, see below.) Dosage should be increased more gradually in debilitated or emaciated patients. Oral Dosage-Tablets: Usually one 5 mg or 10 mg tablet 3 or 4 times daily. Oral Dosage: Non-Psychotic Anxiety—Usual dosage is 5 mg 3 or 4 times daily. Psychotic Disorders including Schizophrenia—In relatively mild conditions, as seen in private psychiatric practice or in out patient clinics, dosage is 5 or 10 mg 3 or 4 times daily. Some patients respond satisfactorily on 50 to 75 mg daily. In more severe disturbances, optimum dosage is usually 100 to 150 mg daily. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION - ADULTS (For children’s dosage and administration, see below.) Dosage should be increased more gradually in debilitated or emaciated patients. Psychotic Disorders including Schizophrenia -- In relatively mild conditions , as seen in private psychiatric practice or in out patient clinics, dosage is 5 or 10 mg 3 or 4 times daily. Children with schizophrenia: Oral Dosage: For children 2 to 12 years, starting dosage is 2 1 /2 mg 2 or 3 times daily. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION –ADULTS (For children’s dosage and administration, see below.) Dosage should be increased more gradually in debilitated or emaciated patients. Oral Dosage–Tablets: Usually one 5 mg or 10 mg tablet 3 or 4 times daily. Oral Dosage: Non-Psychotic Anxiety –Usual dosage is 5 mg 3 or 4 times daily. Psychotic Disorders including Schizophrenia – In relatively mild conditions, as seen in private psychiatric practice or in outpatient clinics, dosage is 5 or 10 mg 3 or 4 times daily. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION–CHILDREN Do not use in pediatric surgery Children seem more prone to develop extrapyramidal reactions, even on moderate doses. Tell parents not to exceed prescribed dosage, since the possibility of adverse reactions increases as dosage rises. Oral Dosage More than 1 day’s therapy is seldom necessary.
Warnings: Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. Prochlorperazine maleate is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis (see BOXED WARNING). The extrapyramidal symptoms which can occur secondary to prochlorperazine may be confused with the central nervous system signs of an undiagnosed primary disease responsible for the vomiting, e.g., Reye’s syndrome or other encephalopathy. The use of prochlorperazine and other potential hepatotoxins should be avoided in children and adolescents whose signs and symptoms suggest Reye’s syndrome. Tardive Dyskinesia: Tardive dyskinesia, a syndrome consisting of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements, may develop in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs. Although the prevalence of the syndrome appears to be highest among the elderly, especially elderly women, it is impossible to rely upon prevalence estimates to predict, at the inception of antipsychotic drug treatment, which patients are likely to develop the syndrome. Whether antipsychotic drug products differ in their potential to cause tardive dyskinesia is unknown. Both the risk of developing the syndrome and the likelihood that it will become irreversible are believed to increase as the duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose of antipsychotic drugs administered to the patient increase. However, the syndrome can develop, although much less commonly, after relatively brief treatment periods at low doses. There is no known treatment for established cases of tardive dyskinesia, although the syndrome may remit, partially or completely, if antipsychotic drug treatment is withdrawn. Antipsychotic drug treatment itself, however, may suppress (or partially suppress) the signs and symptoms of the syndrome and thereby may possibly mask the underlying disease process. The effect that symptomatic suppression has upon the long-term course of the syndrome is unknown. Given these considerations, antipsychotic drugs should be prescribed in a manner that is most likely to minimize the occurrence of tardive dyskinesia especially in the elderly. Chronic antipsychotic treatment should generally be reserved for patients who suffer from a chronic illness that, 1) is known to respond to antipsychotic drugs, and 2) for whom alternative, equally effective, but potentially less harmful treatments are not available or appropriate. In patients who do require chronic treatment, the smallest dose and the shortest duration of treatment producing a satisfactory clinical response should be sought. The need for continued treatment should be reassessed periodically. If signs and symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear in a patient on antipsychotics, drug discontinuation should be considered. However, some patients may require treatment despite the presence of the syndrome. For further information about the description of tardive dyskinesia and its clinical detection, please refer to the sections on PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS. Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS): A potentially fatal syndrome complex sometimes referred to as neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs. Clinical manifestations of NMS are hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status and evidence of autonomic instability (irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis and cardiac dysrhythmias). The diagnostic evaluation of patients with this syndrome is complicated. In arriving at a diagnosis, it is important to identify cases where the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness (e.g., pneumonia, systemic infection, etc.) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms (EPS). Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity, heat stroke, drug fever and primary central nervous systems (CNS) pathology. The management of NMS should include 1) immediate discontinuation of antipsychotic drugs and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy, 2) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring, and 3) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. There is no general agreement about specific pharmacological treatment regimens for uncomplicated NMS. If a patient requires antipsychotic drug treatment after recovery from NMS, the potential reintroduction of drug therapy should be carefully considered. The patient should be carefully monitored, since recurrences of NMS have been reported. An encephalopathic syndrome (characterized by weakness, lethargy, fever, tremulousness and confusion, extrapyramidal symptoms, leukocytosis, elevated serum enzymes, BUN and FBS) has occurred in a few patients treated with lithium plus an antipsychotic. In some instances, the syndrome was followed by irreversible brain damage. Because of a possible causal relationship between these events and the concomitant administration of lithium and antipsychotics, patients receiving such combined therapy should be monitored closely for early evidence of neurologic toxicity and treatment discontinued promptly if such signs appear. This encephalopathic syndrome may be similar to or the same as neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS). Patients with bone marrow depression or who have previously demonstrated a hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., blood dyscrasias, jaundice) with a phenothiazine should not receive any phenothiazine, including Prochlorperazine, unless in the judgment of the physician the potential benefits of treatment outweigh the possible hazards. Prochlorperazine may impair mental and/or physical abilities, especially during the first few days of therapy. Therefore, caution patients about activities requiring alertness (e.g., operating vehicles or machinery). Phenothiazines may intensify or prolong the action of central nervous system depressants (e.g., alcohol, anesthetics, narcotics). Falls: Prochlorperazine Maleate Tablets may cause somnolence, postural hypotension, motor and sensory instability, which may lead to falls and, consequently, fractures or other injuries. For patients with diseases, conditions, or medications that could exacerbate these effects, complete fall risk assessments when initiating antipsychotic treatment and recurrently for patients on long-term antipsychotic therapy. Usage in Pregnancy: Safety for the use of prochlorperazine during pregnancy has not been established. Therefore, prochlorperazine is not recommended for use in pregnant patients except in cases of severe nausea and vomiting that are so serious and intractable that, in the judgment of the physician, drug intervention is required and potential benefits outweigh possible hazards. There have been reported instances of prolonged jaundice, extrapyramidal signs, hyperreflexia or hyporeflexia in newborn infants whose mothers received phenothiazines. Non-teratogenic Effects Neonates exposed to antipsychotic drugs, during third trimester of pregnancy are at risk for extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms following delivery. There have been reports of agitation, hypertonia, hypotonia, tremor, somnolence, respiratory distress and feeding disorder in these neonates. These complications have varied in severity; while in some cases symptoms have been self-limited, in other cases neonates have required intensive care unit support and prolonged hospitalization. Prochlorperazine Maleate should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Nursing Mothers: There is evidence that phenothiazines are excreted in the breast milk of nursing mothers. Caution should be exercised when prochlorperazine is administered to a nursing woman. WARNINGS Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. Prochlorperazine maleate is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis (see BOXED WARNING ). For further information about the description of tardive dyskinesia and its clinical detection, please refer to the sections on PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS . Prochlorperazine is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis (see BOXED WARNING ). Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity, heat stroke, drug fever and primary central nervous system (CNS) pathology. Falls: Prochlorperazine may cause somnolence, postural hypotension, motor and sensory instability, which may lead to falls and, consequently, fractures or other injuries. Non-teratogenic Effects: Neonates exposed to antipsychotic drugs during third trimester of pregnancy are at risk for extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms following delivery. Prochlorperazine should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Prochlorperazine maleate is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia- related psychosis (see BOXED WARNING ). The extrapyramidal symptoms which can occur secondary to prochlorperazine may be confused with the central nervous system signs of an undiagnosed primary disease responsible for the vomiting, e.g., Reye's syndrome or other encephalopathy. The use of prochlorperazine and other potential hepatotoxins should be avoided in children and adolescents whose signs and symptoms suggest Reye's syndrome. Tardive Dyskinesia Tardive dyskinesia, a syndrome consisting of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements, may develop in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs. Given these considerations, antipsychotics drugs should be prescribed in a manner that is most likely to minimize the occurrence of tardive dyskinesia especially in the elderly. Therefore, prochlorperazine is not recommended for use in pregnant patients except in cases of severe nausea and vomiting that are so serious and intractable that, in the judgment of the physician, drug intervention is required, and potential benefits outweigh possible hazards. Non-teratogenic Effects: Neonates exposed to antipsychotic drugs, during third trimester of pregnancy are at risk for extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms following delivery.
Contraindications: Do not use in patients with known hypersensitivity to phenothiazines. Do not use in comatose states or in the presence of large amounts of central nervous system depressants (alcohol, barbiturates, narcotics, etc.). Do not use in pediatric surgery. Do not use in pediatric patients under 2 years of age or under 20 lbs. Do not use in children for conditions for which dosage has not been established. CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not use in patients with known hypersensitivity to phenothiazines.

=== RAMIPRIL ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1. INDICATIONS AND USAGE • Ramipril capsules USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension. It may be used alone or in combination with thiazide diuretics. ( 1.1 ). • Ramipril capsules USP are indicated in stable patients who have demonstrated clinical signs of congestive heart failure post-myocardial infarction ( 1.3 ). 1.1 Hypertension Ramipril capsules USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension. 1.3 Heart Failure Post-Myocardial Infarction Ramipril capsules USP are indicated in stable patients who have demonstrated clinical signs of congestive heart failure within the first few days after sustaining acute myocardial infarction. Administration of ramipril to such patients has been shown to decrease the risk of death (principally cardiovascular death) and to decrease the risks of failure-related hospitalization and progression to severe/resistant heart failure [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.3 ) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ramipril capsules are an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. It may be used alone or in combination with thiazide diuretics ( 1.1 ). In patients 55 years or older at high risk of developing a major cardiovascular event, ramipril capsules are indicated to reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, or death from cardiovascular causes ( 1.2 ). Ramipril capsules are indicated in stable patients who have demonstrated clinical signs of congestive heart failure post-myocardial infarction ( 1.3 ). 1.1 Hypertension Ramipril capsules are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including this drug. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program's Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. Ramipril capsules may be used alone or in combination with thiazide diuretics. 1.2 Reduction in the Risk of Myocardial Infarction, Stroke, and Death from Cardiovascular Causes Ramipril capsules are indicated in patients 55 years or older at high risk of developing a major cardiovascular event because of a history of coronary artery disease, stroke, peripheral vascular disease, or diabetes that is accompanied by at least one other cardiovascular risk factor (hypertension, elevated total cholesterol levels, low HDL levels, cigarette smoking, or documented microalbuminuria), to reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, or death from cardiovascular causes. Ramipril capsules can be used in addition to other needed treatment (such as antihypertensive, antiplatelet, or lipid-lowering therapy) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . 1.3 Heart Failure Post-Myocardial Infarction Ramipril capsules are indicated in stable patients who have demonstrated clinical signs of congestive heart failure within the first few days after sustaining acute myocardial infarction. Administration of ramipril capsules to such patients has been shown to decrease the risk of death (principally cardiovascular death) and to decrease the risks of failure-related hospitalization and progression to severe/resistant heart failure [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Ramipril capsules can be used in addition to other needed treatment (such as antihypertensive, antiplatelet, or lipid-lowering therapy) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. Administration of ramipril capsules to such patients have been shown to decrease the risk of death (principally cardiovascular death) and to decrease the risks of failure-related hospitalization and progression to severe/resistant heart failure [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ramipril is an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. In patients 55 years or older at high risk of developing a major cardiovascular event, ramipril is indicated to reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, or death from cardiovascular causes ( 1.2 ). Ramipril is indicated in stable patients who have demonstrated clinical signs of congestive heart failure post-myocardial infarction ( 1.3 ). 1.1 Hypertension Ramipril is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Ramipril may be used alone or in combination with thiazide diuretics. 1.2 Reduction in the Risk of Myocardial Infarction, Stroke, and Death from Cardiovascular Causes Ramipril is indicated in patients 55 years or older at high risk of developing a major cardiovascular event because of a history of coronary artery disease, stroke, peripheral vascular disease, or diabetes that is accompanied by at least one other cardiovascular risk factor (hypertension, elevated total cholesterol levels, low HDL levels, cigarette smoking, or documented microalbuminuria), to reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, or death from cardiovascular causes. Ramipril can be used in addition to other needed treatment (such as antihypertensive, antiplatelet, or lipid-lowering therapy) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . 1.3 Heart Failure Post-Myocardial Infarction Ramipril is indicated in stable patients who have demonstrated clinical signs of congestive heart failure within the first few days after sustaining acute myocardial infarction. Administration of ramipril to such patients has been shown to decrease the risk of death (principally cardiovascular death) and to decrease the risks of failure-related hospitalization and progression to severe/resistant heart failure [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . It may be used alone or in combination with thiazide diuretics (1.1) . Ramipril capsules are indicated in stable patients who have demonstrated clinical signs of congestive heart failure post-myocardial infarction (1.3) . In patients 55 years or older at high risk of developing a major cardiovascular event, Ramipril capsules is indicated to reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, or death from cardiovascular causes ( 2.2 ). 1.2 Reduction in the Risk of Myocardial Infarction, Stroke, and Death from Cardiovascular Causes Ramipril capsules is indicated in patients 55 years or older at high risk of developing a major cardiovascular event because of a history of coronary artery disease, stroke, peripheral vascular disease, or diabetes that is accompanied by at least one other cardiovascular risk factor (hypertension, elevated total cholesterol levels, low HDL levels, cigarette smoking, or documented microalbuminuria), to reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, or death from cardiovascular causes. Ramipril capsules can be used in addition to other needed treatment (such as antihypertensive, antiplatelet, or lipid-lowering therapy ) [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.2 )]. Administration of ramipril capsule to such patients has been shown to decrease the risk of death (principally cardiovascular death) and to decrease the risks of failure-related hospitalization and progression to severe/resistant heart failure [see CLINICAL STUDIES ( 14.3 )] . In patients 55 years or older at high risk of developing a major cardiovascular event, ramipril capsules are indicated to reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, or death from cardiovascular causes (1.2). Ramipril capsules can be used in addition to other needed treatment (such as antihypertensive, antiplatelet, or lipid-lowering therapy) [see Clinical Studies (14.2)].
Dosage: 2. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Hypertension: Initial dose is 2.5 mg to 20 mg once daily. Adjust dosage according to blood pressure response after 2–4 weeks of treatment. The usual maintenance dose following titration is 2.5 mg to 20 mg daily as a single dose or equally divided doses ( 2.1 ). • Heart failure post-myocardial infarction: Starting dose of 2.5 mg twice daily. If patient becomes hypotensive at this dose, decrease dosage to 1.25 mg twice daily. Increase dose as tolerated toward a target dose of 5 mg twice daily, with dosage increases about 3 weeks apart ( 2.3 ). • Dosage adjustment: See respective sections pertaining to dosage adjustment in special situations ( 2.5 ). 2.1 Hypertension The recommended initial dose for patients not receiving a diuretic is 2.5 mg once a day. Adjust dose according to blood pressure response. The usual maintenance dosage range is 2.5 mg to 20 mg per day administered as a single dose or in two equally divided doses. In some patients treated once daily, the antihypertensive effect may diminish toward the end of the dosing interval. In such patients, consider an increase in dosage or twice daily administration. If blood pressure is not controlled with ramipril alone, a diuretic can be added. 2.3 Heart Failure Post-Myocardial Infarction For the treatment of post-myocardial infarction patients who have shown signs of congestive heart failure, the recommended starting dose of ramipril is 2.5 mg twice daily (5 mg per day). A patient who becomes hypotensive at this dose may be switched to 1.25 mg twice daily. After one week at the starting dose, increase dose (if tolerated) toward a target dose of 5 mg twice daily, with dosage increases being about 3 weeks apart. After the initial dose of ramipril, observe the patient under medical supervision for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour. If possible, reduce the dose of any concomitant diuretic as this may diminish the likelihood of hypotension. The appearance of hypotension after the initial dose of ramipril does not preclude subsequent careful dose titration with the drug, following effective management of the hypotension [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.5 ) , DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7.1 ) ]. 2.4 General Dosing Information Generally, swallow ramipril capsules whole. The ramipril capsule can also be opened and the contents sprinkled on a small amount (about 4 oz.) of applesauce or mixed in 4 oz. (120 mL) of water or apple juice. To be sure that ramipril is not lost when such a mixture is used, consume the mixture in its entirety. The described mixtures can be pre-prepared and stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature or up to 48 hours under refrigeration. Concomitant administration of ramipril with potassium supplements, potassium salt substitutes, or potassium-sparing diuretics can lead to increases of serum potassium [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.8 ) ] . 2.5 Dosage Adjustment Renal Impairment Establish baseline renal function in patients initiating ramipril capsules. Usual regimens of therapy with ramipril capsule may be followed in patients with estimated creatinine clearance >40 mL/min. However, in patients with worse impairment, 25 % of the usual dose of ramipril capsule is expected to produce full therapeutic levels of ramiprilat [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid.) ]. Hypertension For patients with hypertension and renal impairment, the recommended initial dose is 1.25 mg ramipril once daily. Dosage may be titrated upward until blood pressure is controlled or to a maximum total daily dose of 5 mg. Heart Failure Post-Myocardial Infarction For patients with heart failure and renal impairment, the recommended initial dose is 1.25 mg ramipril once daily. The dose may be increased to 1.25 mg twice daily, and up to a maximum dose of 2.5 mg twice daily depending on clinical response and tolerability. Volume Depletion or Renal Artery Stenosis Blood pressure decreases associated with any dose of ramipril depend, in part, on the presence or absence of volume depletion (e.g., past and current diuretic use) or the presence or absence of renal artery stenosis. If such circumstances are suspected to be present, initiate dosing at 1.25 mg once daily. Adjust dosage according to blood pressure response. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension: Initial dose is 2.5 mg to 20 mg once daily. Adjust dosage according to blood pressure response after 2 to 4 weeks of treatment. Reduction in the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, or death from cardiovascular causes: 2.5 mg once daily for 1 week, 5 mg once daily for 3 weeks, and increased as tolerated to a maintenance dose of 10 mg once daily ( 2.2 ). Heart failure post-myocardial infarction: Starting dose of 2.5 mg twice daily. Dosage adjustment: See respective sections pertaining to dosage adjustment in special situations ( 2.5 ). If blood pressure is not controlled with ramipril capsules alone, a diuretic can be added. 2.2 Reduction in Risk of Myocardial Infarction, Stroke, and Death from Cardiovascular Causes Initiate dosing at 2.5 mg once daily for 1 week, 5 mg once daily for the next 3 weeks, and then increase as tolerated, to a maintenance dose of 10 mg once daily. If the patient is hypertensive or recently post-myocardial infarction, ramipril capsules can also be given as a divided dose. 2.3 Heart Failure Post-Myocardial Infarction For the treatment of post-myocardial infarction patients who have shown signs of congestive heart failure, the recommended starting dose of ramipril capsules are 2.5 mg twice daily (5 mg per day). After the initial dose of ramipril capsules, observe the patient under medical supervision for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour. The appearance of hypotension after the initial dose of ramipril capsules does not preclude subsequent careful dose titration with the drug, following effective management of the hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . The ramipril capsules can also be opened and the contents sprinkled on a small amount (about 4 oz.) of applesauce or mixed in 4 oz. Concomitant administration of ramipril capsules with potassium supplements, potassium salt substitutes, or potassium-sparing diuretics can lead to increases of serum potassium [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] . Usual regimens of therapy with ramipril capsules may be followed in patients with estimated creatinine clearance > 40 mL/min. However, in patients with worse impairment, 25% of the usual dose of ramipril is expected to produce full therapeutic levels of ramiprilat [see Use in Specific Population ( 8.6 )] . Hypertension For patients with hypertension and renal impairment, the recommended initial dose is 1.25 mg ramipril capsules once daily. Heart Failure Post-Myocardial Infarction For patients with heart failure and renal impairment, the recommended initial dose is 1.25 mg ramipril capsules once daily. Volume Depletion or Renal Artery Stenosis Blood pressure decreases associated with any dose of ramipril capsules depend, in part, on the presence or absence of volume depletion (e.g., past and current diuretic use) or the presence or absence of renal artery stenosis. 2.3 Heart Failure Post-Myocardial Infarction For the treatment of post-myocardial infarction patients who have shown signs of congestive heart failure, the recommended starting dose of ramipril capsules is 2.5 mg twice daily (5 mg per day). The appearance of hypotension after the initial dose of ramipril capsules does not preclude subsequent careful dose titration with the drug, following effective management of the hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Concomitant administration of ramipril capsules with potassium supplements, potassium salt substitutes, or potassium-sparing diuretics can lead to increases of serum potassium [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . Usual regimens of therapy with ramipril capsules may be followed in patients with estimated creatinine clearance >40 mL/min. However, in patients with worse impairment, 25% of the usual dose of ramipril is expected to produce full therapeutic levels of ramiprilat [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . The usual maintenance dose following titration is 2.5 mg to 20 mg daily as a single dose or equally divided dose ( 2.1 ). Dosage Adjustment: See respective sections pertaining to dosage adjustment in special situations. ( 2.5 ). If the patient is hypertensive or recently post-myocardial infarction, ramipril can also be given as a divided dose. The appearance of hypotension after the initial dose of ramipril does not preclude subsequent careful dose titration with the drug, following effective management of the hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . Concomitant administration of ramipril with potassium supplements, potassium salt substitutes, or potassium‑sparing diuretics can lead to increases of serum potassium [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] . 2.5 Dosage Adjustment Renal Impairment: Establish baseline renal function in patients initiating ramipril. Usual regimens of therapy with ramipril may be followed in patients with estimated creatinine clearance >40 mL/min. However, in patients with worse impairment, 25% of the usual dose of ramipril is expected to produce full therapeutic levels of ramiprilat [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . Hypertension: For patients with hypertension and renal impairment, the recommended initial dose is 1.25 mg ramipril once daily. Heart Failure Post-Myocardial Infarction: For patients with heart failure and renal impairment, the recommended initial dose is 1.25 mg ramipril once daily. Volume Depletion or Renal Artery Stenosis: Blood pressure decreases associated with any dose of ramipril depend, in part, on the presence or absence of volume depletion (e.g., past and current diuretic use) or the presence or absence of renal artery stenosis. The usual maintenance dose following titration is 2.5 mg to 20 mg daily as a single dose or equally divided doses (2.1) . Increase dose as tolerated toward a target dose of 5 mg twice daily, with dosage increases about 3 weeks apart (2.3) . Dosage adjustment: See respective sections pertaining to dosage adjustment in special situations (2.5) . If the patient is hypertensive or recently post-myocardial infarction, ramipril capsule can also be given as a divided dose. Concomitant administration of ramipril with potassium supplements, potassium salt substitutes, or potassium-sparing diuretics can lead to increases of serum potassium [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.8 )]. 2.5 Dosage Adjustment Renal Impairment Establish baseline renal function in patients initiating ramipril. However, in patients with worse impairment, 25 % of the usual dose of ramipril is expected to produce full therapeutic levels of ramiprilat [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.6 )] . Reduction in the risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, or death from cardiovascular causes: 2.5 mg once daily for 1 week, 5 mg once daily for 3 weeks, and increased as tolerated to a maintenance dose of 10 mg once daily (2.2).
Contraindications: 4. CONTRAINDICATIONS Angioedema related to previous treatment with an ACE inhibitor, or a history of hereditary or idiopathic angioedema.( 4 ). Ramipril is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this product or any other ACE inhibitor (e.g., a patient who has experienced angioedema during therapy with any other ACE inhibitor). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ramipril capsules are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this product or any other ACE inhibitor (e.g., a patient who has experienced angioedema during therapy with any other ACE inhibitor). Ramipril capsules are contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor (e.g., sacubitril). Do not administer ramipril capsules within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril/valsartan, a neprilysin inhibitor [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. Do not co-administer ramipril capsules with aliskiren: in patients with diabetes. Angioedema related to previous treatment with an ACE inhibitor, or a history of hereditary or idiopathic angioedema.( 4 ). Ramipril is contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor (e.g., sacubitril). Do not administer ramipril within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril/valsartan, a neprilysin inhibitor ( 4 ). Do not coadminister aliskiren with ramipril in patients with diabetes. ( 4 ) Do not administer ramipril capsules within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril/valsartan, a neprilysin inhibitor [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Do not co-administer ramipril capsules with aliskiren: • in patients with diabetes Angioedema related to previous treatment with an ACE inhibitor, or a history of hereditary or idiopathic angioedema (4) . Do not administer ramipril capsules within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril/valsartan, a neprilysin inhibitor ( 4 ). Do not co-administer aliskiren with ramipril capsules in patients with diabetes (4) . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ramipril is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this product or any other ACE inhibitor (e.g., a patient who has experienced angioedema during therapy with any other ACE inhibitor). Do not administer ramipril within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril/valsartan, a neprilysin inhibitor [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Do not co-administer ramipril with aliskiren: • in patients with diabetes. Angioedema related to previous treatment with an ACE inhibitor, or a history of hereditary or idiopathic angioedema ( 4 ). Do not co-administer aliskiren with ramipril in patients with diabetes ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Angioedema related to previous treatment with an ACE inhibitor, or a history of hereditary or idiopathic angioedema ( 4 ). Do not administer ramipril capsules within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril/valsartan, a neprilysin inhibitor [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )]. Do not co-administer ramipril with aliskiren: in patients with diabetes
Interactions (label): 7. DRUG INTERACTIONS • Diuretics: Possibility of excessive hypotension ( 7.1 ). • Lithium: Use with caution ( 7.3 ). • Gold: Nitritoid reactions have been reported ( 7.4 ). • NSAIDS use may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect ( 7.5 ). 7.1 Diuretics Patients on diuretics, especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted, may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with ramipril. The possibility of hypotensive effects with ramipril can be minimized by either decreasing or discontinuing the diuretic or increasing the salt intake prior to initiation of treatment with ramipril. If this is not possible, reduce the starting dose [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 ) ]. Ramipril can attenuate potassium loss caused by thiazide diuretics. Potassium-sparing diuretics (spironolactone, amiloride, triamterene, and others) or potassium supplements can increase the risk of hyperkalemia. Therefore, if concomitant use of such agents is indicated, monitor the patient's serum potassium frequently. 7.2 Other Antihypertensive Agents Limited experience in controlled and uncontrolled trials combining ramipril with a calcium channel blocker, a loop diuretic, or triple therapy (beta-blocker, vasodilator, and a diuretic) indicate no unusual drug-drug interactions. Other ACE inhibitors have had less than additive effects with beta adrenergic blockers, presumably because both drug classes lower blood pressure by inhibiting parts of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. The combination of ramipril and propranolol showed no adverse effects on dynamic parameters (blood pressure and heart rate). In a large-scale, long-term clinical efficacy study, the combination of telmisartan and ramipril resulted in an increased incidence of clinically important renal dysfunction (death, doubling of serum creatinine, dialysis) compared with groups receiving either drug alone. Therefore, concomitant use of telmisartan and ramipril is not recommended [see Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System ( 5.7 ) ]. 7.3 Lithium Increased serum lithium levels and symptoms of lithium toxicity have been reported in patients receiving ACE inhibitors during therapy with lithium; therefore, frequent monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended. If a diuretic is also used, the risk of lithium toxicity may be increased. 7.4 Gold Nitritoid reactions (symptoms include facial flushing, nausea, vomiting and hypotension) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold (sodium aurothiomalate) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including ramipril. 7.5 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including ramipril, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving ramipril and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors, including ramipril, may be attenuated by NSAIDs. 7.6 Other Neither ramipril nor its metabolites have been found to interact with food, digoxin, antacid, furosemide, cimetidine, indomethacin, and simvastatin. The co-administration of ramipril and warfarin did not adversely affect the anticoagulation effects of the latter drug. Additionally, co-administration of ramipril with phenprocoumon did not affect minimum phenprocoumon levels or interfere with the patients' state of anticoagulation. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Diuretics: Possibility of excessive hypotension ( 7.1 ). Lithium: Use with caution ( 7.4 ). Gold: Nitritoid reactions have been reported ( 7.5 ). NSAIDS use may lead to increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive effect ( 7.6 ). mTOR inhibitor or neprilysin inhibitor use may increase angioedema risk ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Diuretics Patients on diuretics, especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted, may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with ramipril. If this is not possible, reduce the starting dose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2 )] . 7.2 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of ramipril with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. Monitor serum potassium in such patients. 7.3 Other Agents Affecting RAS In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . Do not co-administer aliskiren with ramipril in patients with diabetes [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . 7.4 Lithium Increased serum lithium levels and symptoms of lithium toxicity have been reported in patients receiving ACE inhibitors during therapy with lithium; therefore, frequent monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended. 7.5 Gold Nitritoid reactions (symptoms include facial flushing, nausea, vomiting and hypotension) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold (sodium aurothiomalate) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including ramipril. 7.6 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including ramipril, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. 7.7 mTOR Inhibitors or Other Drugs Known to Cause Angioedema Patients taking concomitant mTOR inhibitor (e.g. temsirolimus) therapy or a neprilysin inhibitor may be at increased risk for angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Lithium: Use with caution (7.4) . mTOR inhibitor or neprilysin inhibitor use may increase angioedema risk ( 7.7 ). If this is not possible, reduce the starting dose [see Dosage and Administration (2) ] . 7.3 Other Agents Affecting RAS In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . Do not co-administer aliskiren with ramipril in patients with diabetes [see Contraindications (4) ]. 7.6 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including ramipril, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. 7.7 mTOR Inhibitors or Other Drugs Known to Cause Angioedema Patients taking concomitant mTOR inhibitor (e.g., temsirolimus) therapy or a neprilysin inhibitor may be at increased risk for angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 7.2 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Co-administration of ramipril with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. temsirolimus) therapy or a neprilysin inhibitor may be at increased risk for angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.7 )] . Do not co-administer aliskiren with ramipril in patients with diabetes [see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 )]. temsirolimus) therapy or a neprilysin inhibitor may be at increased risk for angioedema. [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )]

=== ROCURONIUM BROMIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Rocuronium bromide injection is indicated for inpatients and outpatients as an adjunct to general anesthesia to facilitate both rapid sequence and routine tracheal intubation, and to provide skeletal muscle relaxation during surgery or mechanical ventilation. Rocuronium bromide injection is a nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agent indicated as an adjunct to general anesthesia to facilitate both rapid sequence and routine tracheal intubation, and to provide skeletal muscle relaxation during surgery or mechanical ventilation. ( 1 ) Rocuronium bromide is a nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agent indicated as an adjunct to general anesthesia to facilitate both rapid sequence and routine tracheal intubation, and to provide skeletal muscle relaxation during surgery or mechanical ventilation. (1) Rocuronium bromide injection is a nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agent indicated as an adjunct to general anesthesia to facilitate both rapid sequence and routine tracheal intubation, and to provide skeletal muscle relaxation during surgery or mechanical ventilation ( 1 ).
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION To be administered only by experienced clinicians or adequately trained individuals supervised by an experienced clinician familiar with the use, actions, characteristics, and complications of neuromuscular blocking agents. ( 2.1 ) Individualize the dose for each patient. ( 2.1 ) Peripheral nerve stimulator recommended for determination of drug response and need for additional doses, and to evaluate recovery. ( 2.1 ) Store rocuronium bromide injection with cap and ferrule intact and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product. ( 2.1 ) Tracheal intubation : Recommended initial dose is 0.6 mg/kg. ( 2.2 ) Rapid sequence intubation : 0.6 to 1.2 mg/kg. ( 2.3 ) Maintenance doses : Guided by response to prior dose, not administered until recovery is evident. ( 2.4 ) Continuous infusion : Initial rate of 10 to 12 mcg/kg/min. Start only after early evidence of spontaneous recovery from an intubating dose. ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Important Dosing and Administration Information Rocuronium bromide injection is for intravenous use only. This drug should only be administered by experienced clinicians or trained individuals supervised by an experienced clinician familiar with the use, actions, characteristics and complications of neuromuscular blocking agents. Doses of rocuronium bromide injection should be individualized and a peripheral nerve stimulator should be used to monitor drug effect, need for additional doses, adequacy of spontaneous recovery or antagonism, and to decrease the complications of overdosage if additional doses are administered. The dosage information which follows is derived from studies based upon units of drug per unit of body weight. It is intended to serve as an initial guide to clinicians familiar with other neuromuscular blocking agents to acquire experience with rocuronium bromide. In patients in whom potentiation of, or resistance to, neuromuscular block is anticipated, a dose adjustment should be considered [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 , 5.13 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.2 , 7.3 , 7.4 , 7.5 , 7.6 , 7.8 , 7.10 ), and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. Risk of Medication Errors Accidental administration of neuromuscular blocking agents may be fatal. Store rocuronium bromide with the cap and ferrule intact and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . 2.2 Dose for Tracheal Intubation The recommended initial dose of rocuronium bromide, regardless of anesthetic technique, is 0.6 mg/kg. Neuromuscular block sufficient for intubation (80% block or greater) is attained in a median (range) time of 1 (0.4 to 6) minute(s) and most patients have intubation completed within 2 minutes. Maximum blockade is achieved in most patients in less than 3 minutes. This dose may be expected to provide 31 (15 to 85) minutes of clinical relaxation under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia. Under halothane, isoflurane, and enflurane anesthesia, some extension of the period of clinical relaxation should be expected [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 )]. A lower dose of rocuronium bromide (0.45 mg/kg) may be used. Neuromuscular block sufficient for intubation (80% block or greater) is attained in a median (range) time of 1.3 (0.8 to 6.2) minute(s) and most patients have intubation completed within 2 minutes. Maximum blockade is achieved in most patients in less than 4 minutes. This dose may be expected to provide 22 (12 to 31) minutes of clinical relaxation under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia. Patients receiving this low dose of 0.45 mg/kg who achieve less than 90% block (about 16% of these patients) may have a more rapid time to 25% recovery, 12 to 15 minutes. A large bolus dose of 0.9 or 1.2 mg/kg can be administered under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia without adverse effects to the cardiovascular system [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )]. 2.3 Rapid Sequence Intubation In appropriately premedicated and adequately anesthetized patients, rocuronium bromide 0.6 to 1.2 mg/kg will provide excellent or good intubating conditions in most patients in less than 2 minutes [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. 2.4 Maintenance Dosing Maintenance doses of 0.1, 0.15, and 0.2 mg/kg rocuronium bromide, administered at 25% recovery of control T 1 (defined as 3 twitches of train-of-four), provide a median (range) of 12 (2 to 31), 17 (6 to 50) and 24 (7 to 69) minutes of clinical duration under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . In all cases, dosing should be guided based on the clinical duration following initial dose or prior maintenance dose and not administered until recovery of neuromuscular function is evident. A clinically insignificant cumulation of effect with repetitive maintenance dosing has been observed [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )]. 2.5 Use by Continuous Infusion Infusion at an initial rate of 10 to 12 mcg/kg/min of rocuronium bromide should be initiated only after early evidence of spontaneous recovery from an intubating dose. Due to rapid redistribution [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] and the associated rapid spontaneous recovery, initiation of the infusion after substantial return of neuromuscular function (more than 10% of control T 1 ), may necessitate additional bolus doses to maintain adequate block for surgery. Upon reaching the desired level of neuromuscular block, the infusion of rocuronium bromide must be individualized for each patient. The rate of administration should be adjusted according to the patient's twitch response as monitored with the use of a peripheral nerve stimulator. In clinical trials, infusion rates have ranged from 4 to 16 mcg/kg/min. Inhalation anesthetics, particularly enflurane and isoflurane, may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of nondepolarizing muscle relaxants. In the presence of steady-state concentrations of enflurane or isoflurane, it may be necessary to reduce the rate of infusion by 30% to 50%, at 45 to 60 minutes after the intubating dose. Spontaneous recovery and reversal of neuromuscular blockade following discontinuation of rocuronium bromide infusion may be expected to proceed at rates comparable to that following comparable total doses administered by repetitive bolus injections [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . Infusion solutions of rocuronium bromide can be prepared by mixing rocuronium bromide with an appropriate infusion solution such as 5% glucose in water or lactated Ringers [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 )] . These infusion solutions should be used within 24 hours of mixing. Unused portions of infusion solutions should be discarded. Infusion rates of rocuronium bromide can be individualized for each patient using the following tables for 3 different concentrations of rocuronium bromide solution as guidelines: Table 1: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (0.5 mg per mL)* *50 mg rocuronium bromide in 100 mL solution. Patient Weight Drug Delivery Rate (mcg/kg/min) (kg) (lbs) 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14 16 Infusion Delivery Rate (mL/hr) 10 22 4.8 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 10.8 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 15 33 7.2 9 10.8 12.6 14.4 16.2 18 21.6 25.2 28.8 20 44 9.6 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 21.6 24 28.8 33.6 38.4 25 55 12 15 18 21 24 27 30 36 42 48 35 77 16.8 21 25.2 29.4 33.6 37.8 42 50.4 58.8 67.2 50 110 24 30 36 42 48 54 60 72 84 96 60 132 28.8 36 43.2 50.4 57.6 64.8 72 86.4 100.8 115.2 70 154 33.6 42 50.4 58.8 67.2 75.6 84 100.8 117.6 134.4 80 176 38.4 48 57.6 67.2 76.8 86.4 96 115.2 134.4 153.6 90 198 43.2 54 64.8 75.6 86.4 97.2 108 129.6 151.2 172.8 100 220 48 60 72 84 96 108 120 144 168 192 Table 2: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (1 mg per mL)* *100 mg rocuronium bromide in 100 mL solution. Patient Weight Drug Delivery Rate (mcg/kg/min) (kg) (lbs) 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14 16 Infusion Delivery Rate (mL/hr) 10 22 2.4 3 3.6 4.2 4.8 5.4 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 15 33 3.6 4.5 5.4 6.3 7.2 8.1 9 10.8 12.6 14.4 20 44 4.8 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 10.8 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 25 55 6 7.5 9 10.5 12 13.5 15 18 21 24 35 77 8.4 10.5 12.6 14.7 16.8 18.9 21 25.2 29.4 33.6 50 110 12 15 18 21 24 27 30 36 42 48 60 132 14.4 18 21.6 25.2 28.8 32.4 36 43.2 50.4 57.6 70 154 16.8 21 25.2 29.4 33.6 37.8 42 50.4 58.8 67.2 80 176 19.2 24 28.8 33.6 38.4 43.2 48 57.6 67.2 76.8 90 198 21.6 27 32.4 37.8 43.2 48.6 54 64.8 75.6 86.4 100 220 24 30 36 42 48 54 60 72 84 96 Table 3: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (5 mg per mL)* *500 mg rocuronium bromide in 100 mL solution. Patient Weight Drug Delivery Rate (mcg/kg/min) (kg) (lbs) 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14 16 Infusion Delivery Rate (mL/hr) 10 22 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 1 1.1 1.2 1.4 1.7 1.9 15 33 0.7 0.9 1.1 1.3 1.4 1.6 1.8 2.2 2.5 2.9 20 44 1 1.2 1.4 1.7 1.9 2.2 2.4 2.9 3.4 3.8 25 55 1.2 1.5 1.8 2.1 2.4 2.7 3 3.6 4.2 4.8 35 77 1.7 2.1 2.5 2.9 3.4 3.8 4.2 5 5.9 6.7 50 110 2.4 3 3.6 4.2 4.8 5.4 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 60 132 2.9 3.6 4.3 5 5.8 6.5 7.2 8.6 10.1 11.5 70 154 3.4 4.2 5 5.9 6.7 7.6 8.4 10.1 11.8 13.4 80 176 3.8 4.8 5.8 6.7 7.7 8.6 9.6 11.5 13.4 15.4 90 198 4.3 5.4 6.5 7.6 8.6 9.7 10.8 13 15.1 17.3 100 220 4.8 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 10.8 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 2.6 Dosage in Specific Populations Pediatric Patients The recommended initial intubation dose of rocuronium bromide is 0.6 mg/kg; however, a lower dose of 0.45 mg/kg may be used depending on anesthetic technique and the age of the patient. For sevoflurane (induction) rocuronium bromide doses of 0.45 mg/kg and 0.6 mg/kg in general produce excellent to good intubating conditions within 75 seconds. When halothane is used, a 0.6 mg/kg dose of rocuronium bromide resulted in excellent to good intubating conditions within 60 seconds. The time to maximum block for an intubating dose was shortest in infants (28 days up to 3 months) and longest in neonates (birth to less than 28 days). The duration of clinical relaxation following an intubating dose is shortest in children (greater than 2 years up to 11 years) and longest in infants. When sevoflurane is used for induction and isoflurane/nitrous oxide for maintenance of general anesthesia, maintenance dosing of rocuronium bromide can be administered as bolus doses of 0.15 mg/kg at reappearance of T 3 in all pediatric age groups. Maintenance dosing can also be administered at the reappearance of T 2 at a rate of 7 to 10 mcg/kg/min, with the lowest dose requirement for neonates (birth to less than 28 days) and the highest dose requirement for children (greater than 2 years up to 11 years). When halothane is used for general anesthesia, patients ranging from 3 months old through adolescence can be administered rocuronium bromide maintenance doses of 0.075 to 0.125 mg/kg upon return of T 1 to 0.25% to provide clinical relaxation for 7 to 10 minutes. Alternatively, a continuous infusion of rocuronium bromide initiated at a rate of 12 mcg/kg/min upon return of T 1 to 10% (one twitch present in train-of-four), may also be used to maintain neuromuscular blockade in pediatric patients. Additional information for administration to pediatric patients of all age groups is presented elsewhere in the label [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )]. The infusion of rocuronium bromide must be individualized for each patient. Spontaneous recovery and reversal of neuromuscular blockade following discontinuation of rocuronium bromide infusion may be expected to proceed at rates comparable to that following similar total exposure to single bolus doses [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . Rocuronium bromide is not recommended for rapid sequence intubation in pediatric patients. Geriatric Patients Geriatric patients (65 years or older) exhibited a slightly prolonged median (range) clinical duration of 46 (22 to 73), 62 (49 to 75), and 94 (64 to 138) minutes under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia following doses of 0.6, 0.9, and 1.2 mg/kg, respectively. No differences in duration of neuromuscular blockade following maintenance doses of rocuronium bromide were observed between these subjects and younger subjects, but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. [See also Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )]. Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment No differences from patients with normal hepatic and kidney function were observed for onset time at a dose of 0.6 mg/kg rocuronium bromide. When compared to patients with normal renal and hepatic function, the mean clinical duration is similar in patients with end-stage renal disease undergoing renal transplant, and is about 1.5 times longer in patients with hepatic disease. Patients with renal failure may have a greater variation in duration of effect [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 , 8.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Obese Patients In obese patients, the initial dose of rocuronium bromide 0.6 mg/kg should be based upon the patient's actual body weight [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. An analysis across all US controlled clinical studies indicates that the pharmacodynamics of rocuronium bromide are not different between obese and non-obese patients when dosed based upon their actual body weight. Patients with Reduced Plasma Cholinesterase Activity Rocuronium metabolism does not depend on plasma cholinesterase so dosing adjustments are not needed in patients with reduced plasma cholinesterase activity. Patients with Prolonged Circulation Time Because higher doses of rocuronium bromide produce a longer duration of action, the initial dosage should usually not be increased in these patients to reduce onset time; instead, in these situations, when feasible, more time should be allowed for the drug to achieve onset of effect [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )]. Patients with Drugs or Conditions Causing Potentiation of Neuromuscular Block The neuromuscular blocking action of rocuronium bromide is potentiated by isoflurane and enflurane anesthesia. Potentiation is minimal when administration of the recommended dose of rocuronium bromide occurs prior to the administration of these potent inhalation agents. The median clinical duration of a dose of 0.57 to 0.85 mg/kg was 34, 38, and 42 minutes under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen, enflurane and isoflurane maintenance anesthesia, respectively. During 1 to 2 hours of infusion, the infusion rate of rocuronium bromide required to maintain about 95% block was decreased by as much as 40% under enflurane and isoflurane anesthesia [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 )]. 2.7 Preparation for Administration of Rocuronium Bromide Diluent Compatibility Rocuronium bromide is compatible in solution with: 0.9% NaCl solution sterile water for injection 5% glucose in water lactated Ringers 5% glucose in saline Rocuronium bromide is compatible in the above solutions at concentrations up to 5 mg per mL for 24 hours at room temperature in plastic bags, glass bottles, and plastic syringe pumps. Drug Admixture Incompatibility Rocuronium bromide is physically incompatible when mixed with the following drugs: amphotericin hydrocortisone sodium succinate amoxicillin insulin azathioprine intralipid cefazolin ketorolac cloxacillin lorazepam dexamethasone methohexital diazepam methylprednisolone erythromycin thiopental famotidine trimethoprim furosemide vancomycin If rocuronium bromide is administered via the same infusion line that is also used for other drugs, it is important that this infusion line is adequately flushed between administration of rocuronium bromide and drugs for which incompatibility with rocuronium bromide has been demonstrated or for which compatibility with rocuronium bromide has not been established. Infusion solutions should be used within 24 hours of mixing. Rocuronium bromide should not be mixed with alkaline solutions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )]. Visual Inspection Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and clarity prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Do not use solution if particulate matter is present. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2.1 Important Dosing and Administration Information Rocuronium bromide injection is for intravenous use only. This drug should only be administered by experienced clinicians or trained individuals supervised by an experienced clinician familiar with the use, actions, characteristics, and complications of neuromuscular blocking agents. In patients in whom potentiation of, or resistance to, neuromuscular block is anticipated, a dose adjustment should be considered [see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 ), and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 )]. Store rocuronium bromide with the cap and ferrule intact and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )]. Under halothane, isoflurane, and enflurane anesthesia, some extension of the period of clinical relaxation should be expected [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. A large bolus dose of 0.9 or 1.2 mg/kg can be administered under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia without adverse effects to the cardiovascular system [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 )]. 2.3 Rapid Sequence Intubation In appropriately premedicated and adequately anesthetized patients, rocuronium bromide 0.6 to 1.2 mg/kg will provide excellent or good intubating conditions in most patients in less than 2 minutes [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. 2.4 Maintenance Dosing Maintenance doses of 0.1, 0.15, and 0.2 mg/kg rocuronium bromide, administered at 25% recovery of control T1 (defined as 3 twitches of train-of-four), provide a median (range) of 12 (2 to 31), 17 (6 to 50) and 24 (7 to 69) minutes of clinical duration under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 )]. A clinically insignificant cumulation of effect with repetitive maintenance dosing has been observed [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 )]. Due to rapid redistribution [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 )] and the associated rapid spontaneous recovery, initiation of the infusion after substantial return of neuromuscular function (more than 10% of control T1), may necessitate additional bolus doses to maintain adequate block for surgery. Spontaneous recovery and reversal of neuromuscular blockade following discontinuation of rocuronium bromide infusion may be expected to proceed at rates comparable to that following comparable total doses administered by repetitive bolus injections [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 )]. Infusion solutions of rocuronium bromide can be prepared by mixing rocuronium bromide with an appropriate infusion solution such as 5% glucose in water or lactated Ringers [see Dosage and Administration ( 2 )]. Infusion rates of rocuronium bromide can be individualized for each patient using the following tables for 3 different concentrations of rocuronium bromide solution as guidelines: Table 1: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (0.5 mg/mL)* *50 mg rocuronium bromide in 100 mL solution Table 2: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (1 mg/mL)* *100 mg rocuronium bromide in 100 mL solution. Table 3: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (5 mg/mL)* *500 mg rocuronium bromide in 100 mL solution. 2.6 Dosage in Specific Populations Pediatric Patients The recommended initial intubation dose of rocuronium bromide is 0.6 mg/kg; however, a lower dose of 0.45 mg/kg may be used depending on anesthetic technique and the age of the patient. When sevoflurane is used for induction and isoflurane/nitrous oxide for maintenance of general anesthesia, maintenance dosing of rocuronium bromide can be administered as bolus doses of 0.15 mg/kg at reappearance of T3 in all pediatric age groups. Maintenance dosing can also be administered at the reappearance of T2 at a rate of 7 to 10 mcg/kg/min, with the lowest dose requirement for neonates (birth to less than 28 days) and the highest dose requirement for children (greater than 2 years up to 11 years). When halothane is used for general anesthesia, patients ranging from 3 months old through adolescence can be administered rocuronium bromide maintenance doses of 0.075 to 0.125 mg/kg upon return of T1 to 0.25% to provide clinical relaxation for 7 to 10 minutes. Alternatively, a continuous infusion of rocuronium bromide initiated at a rate of 12 mcg/kg/min upon return of T1 to 10% (one twitch present in train-of-four) may also be used to maintain neuromuscular blockade in pediatric patients. Additional information for administration to pediatric patients of all age groups is presented elsewhere in the label [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 )]. Spontaneous recovery and reversal of neuromuscular blockade following discontinuation of rocuronium bromide infusion may be expected to proceed at rates comparable to that following similar total exposure to single bolus doses [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 )]. Geriatric Patients Geriatric patients (65 years or older) exhibited a slightly prolonged median (range) clinical duration of 46 (22 to 73), 62 (49 to 75), and 94 (64 to 138) minutes under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia following doses of 0.6, 0.9, and 1.2 mg/ kg, respectively. No differences in duration of neuromuscular blockade following maintenance doses of rocuronium bromide were observed between these subjects and younger subjects, but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 )].[See also Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )]. Patients with renal failure may have a greater variation in duration of effect [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 )and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 )]. Obese Patients In obese patients, the initial dose of rocuronium bromide 0.6 mg/kg should be based upon the patient’s actual body weight [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. An analysis across all US controlled clinical studies indicates that the pharmacodynamics of rocuronium bromide are not different between obese and nonobese patients when dosed based upon their actual body weight. Patients with Prolonged Circulation Time Because higher doses of rocuronium bromide produce a longer duration of action, the initial dosage should usually not be increased in these patients to reduce onset time; instead, in these situations, when feasible, more time should be allowed for the drug to achieve onset of effect [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )]. During 1 to 2 hours of infusion, the infusion rate of rocuronium bromide required to maintain about 95% block was decreased by as much as 40% under enflurane and isoflurane anesthesia [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. 2.7 Preparation for Administration of Rocuronium Bromide Diluent Compatibility Rocuronium bromide is compatible in solution with: 0.9% NaCl solution sterile water for injection 5% glucose in water lactated Ringers 5% glucose in saline Rocuronium bromide is compatible in the above solutions at concentrations up to 5 mg/mL for 24 hours at room temperature in plastic bags, glass bottles, and plastic syringe pumps. Rocuronium bromide should not be mixed with alkaline solutions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )]. Table 1 TABLE 2 Table 3 (2.1) • Individualize the dose for each patient. (2.1) • Peripheral nerve stimulator recommended for determination of drug response and need for additional doses, and to evaluate recovery. (2.1) • Store Rocuronium bromide Injection with cap and ferrule intact and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product. (2.1) • Tracheal intubation : Recommended initial dose is 0.6 mg/kg (2.2) • Rapid sequence intubation : 0.6 to 1.2 mg/kg (2.3) • Maintenance doses: Guided by response to prior dose, not administered until recovery is evident. (2.4) • Continuous infusion: Initial rate of 10 to 12 mcg/kg/min. (2.5) 2.1 Important Dosing and Administration Information Rocuronium bromide is for intravenous use only. In patients in whom potentiation of, or resistance to, neuromuscular block is anticipated, a dose adjustment should be considered [see Dosage and Administration (2.6), Warnings and Precautions (5.10, 5.13), Drug Interactions (7.2, 7.3, 7.4, 7.5, 7.6, 7.8, 7.10), and Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]. Store Rocuronium bromide Injection with the cap and ferrule intact and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Neuromuscular block sufficient for intubation (80% block or greater) is attained in a median (range) time of 1 (0.4 - 6) minute(s) and most patients have intubation completed within 2 minutes. This dose may be expected to provide 31 (15 - 85) minutes of clinical relaxation under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia. Under halothane, isoflurane, and enflurane anesthesia, some extension of the period of clinical relaxation should be expected [see Drug Interactions (7.3)] . Neuromuscular block sufficient for intubation (80% block or greater) is attained in a median (range) time of 1.3 (0.8 - 6.2) minute(s) and most patients have intubation completed within 2 minutes. This dose may be expected to provide 22 (12 - 31) minutes of clinical relaxation under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia. A large bolus dose of 0.9 or 1.2 mg/kg can be administered under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia without adverse effects to the cardiovascular system [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. 2.3 Rapid Sequence Intubation In appropriately premedicated and adequately anesthetized patients, rocuronium bromide 0.6 to 1.2 mg/kg will provide excellent or good intubating conditions in most patients in less than 2 minutes [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 2.4 Maintenance Dosing Maintenance doses of 0.1, 0.15, and 0.2 mg/kg rocuronium bromide, administered at 25% recovery of control T 1 (defined as 3 twitches of train-of-four), provide a median (range) of 12 (2 to 31), 17 (6 to 50), and 24 (7 to 69) minutes of clinical duration under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. A clinically insignificant cumulation of effect with repetitive maintenance dosing has been observed [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Due to rapid redistribution [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] and the associated rapid spontaneous recovery, initiation of the infusion after substantial return of neuromuscular function (more than 10% of control T1), may necessitate additional bolus doses to maintain adequate block for surgery. In the presence of steady-state concentrations of enflurane or isoflurane, it may be necessary to reduce the rate of infusion by 30 to 50%, at 45 to 60 minutes after the intubating dose. Spontaneous recovery and reversal of neuromuscular blockade following discontinuation of rocuronium bromide infusion may be expected to proceed at rates comparable to that following comparable total doses administered by repetitive bolus injections [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Infusion solutions of rocuronium bromide can be prepared by mixing rocuronium bromide with an appropriate infusion solution such as 5% glucose in water or lactated Ringers [ see Dosage and Administration (2.7) ]. Infusion rates of rocuronium bromide can be individualized for each patient using the following tables for three different concentrations of rocuronium bromide solution as guidelines: TABLE 1: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (0.5 mg/mL)* *50 mg rocuronium bromide in 100 mL solution TABLE 2: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (1 mg/mL)* * 100 mg rocuronium bromide in 100 mL solution TABLE 3: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (5 mg/mL)* * 500 mg rocuronium bromide in 100 mL solution robro table 1 robro table 2 robro table 3 2.6 Dosage in Specific Populations Pediatric Patients: The recommended initial intubation dose of rocuronium bromide is 0.6 mg/kg; however, a lower dose of 0.45 mg/kg may be used depending on anesthetic technique and the age of the patient. Alternatively, a continuous infusion of rocuronium bromide initiated at a rate of 12 mcg/kg/min upon return of T1 to 10% (one twitch present in train-of-four), may also be used to maintain neuromuscular blockade in pediatric patients. Additional information for administration to pediatric patients of all age groups is presented elsewhere in the label [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. The rate of administration should be adjusted according to the patient‘s twitch response as monitored with the use of a peripheral nerve stimulator. Spontaneous recovery and reversal of neuromuscular blockade following discontinuation of rocuronium bromide infusion may be expected to proceed at rates comparable to that following similar total exposure to single bolus doses [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)] . Geriatric Patients: Geriatric patients (65 years or older) exhibited a slightly prolonged median (range) clinical duration of 46 (22-73), 62 (49-75), and 94 (64-138) minutes under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia following doses of 0.6, 0.9, and 1.2 mg/kg, respectively. No differences in duration of neuromuscular blockade following maintenance doses of rocuronium bromide were observed between these subjects and younger subjects, but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) and Clinical Studies (14.2)] . [See also Warnings and Precautions (5.5).] Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment: No differences from patients with normal hepatic and kidney function were observed for onset time at a dose of 0.6 mg/kg rocuronium bromide. Patients with renal failure may have a greater variation in duration of effect [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6, 8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Obese Patients: In obese patients, the initial dose of rocuronium bromide 0.6 mg/kg should be based upon the patient's actual body weight [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] . Patients with Reduced Plasma Cholinesterase Activity: Rocuronium metabolism does not depend on plasma cholinesterase so dosing adjustments are not needed in patients with reduced plasma cholinesterase activity. Patients with Prolonged Circulation Time: Because higher doses of rocuronium bromide produce a longer duration of action, the initial dosage should usually not be increased in these patients to reduce onset time; instead, in these situations, when feasible, more time should be allowed for the drug to achieve onset of effect [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. Patients with Drugs or Conditions Causing Potentiation of Neuromuscular Block: The neuromuscular blocking action of rocuronium bromide is potentiated by isoflurane and enflurane anesthesia. During 1 to 2 hours of infusion, the infusion rate of rocuronium bromide required to maintain about 95% block was decreased by as much as 40% under enflurane and isoflurane anesthesia [see Drug Interactions (7.3)]. 2.7 Preparation for Administration of Rocuronium Bromide Diluent Compatibility: Rocuronium bromide is compatible in solution with: 0.9% NaCl solution sterile water for injection 5% glucose in water lactated Ringers 5% glucose in saline Rocuronium bromide is compatible in the above solutions at concentrations up to 5 mg/mL for 24 hours at room temperature in plastic bags, glass bottles, and plastic syringe pumps. Drug Admixture Incompatibility: Rocuronium bromide is physically incompatible when mixed with the following drugs: amphotericin hydrocortisone sodium succinate amoxicillin insulin azathioprine Intralipid cefazolin ketorolac cloxacillin lorazepam dexamethasone methohexital diazepam methylprednisolone erythromycin thiopental famotidine trimethoprim furosemide vancomycin If rocuronium bromide is administered via the same infusion line that is also used for other drugs, it is important that this infusion line is adequately flushed between administration of rocuronium bromide and drugs for which incompatibility with rocuronium bromide has been demonstrated or for which compatibility with rocuronium bromide has not been established. Rocuronium bromide should not be mixed with alkaline solutions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]. Visual Inspection: Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and clarity prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. (2.1) Individualize the dose for each patient. (2.1) Peripheral nerve stimulator recommended for determination of drug response and need for additional doses, and to evaluate recovery. (2.1) Store rocuronium bromide injection with cap and ferrule intact and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product. (2.1) Tracheal intubation : Recommended initial dose is 0.6 mg/kg. (2.2) Rapid sequence intubation : 0.6 to 1.2 mg/kg. (2.3) Maintenance doses : Guided by response to prior dose, not administered until recovery is evident. (2.4) Continuous infusion : Initial rate of 10 to 12 mcg/kg/min. (2.5) 2.1 Important Dosing and Administration Information Rocuronium bromide injection is for intravenous use only. It is intended to serve as an initial guide to clinicians familiar with other neuromuscular blocking agents to acquire experience with rocuronium bromide injection. In patients in whom potentiation of, or resistance to, neuromuscular block is anticipated, a dose adjustment should be considered [see Dosage and Administration (2.6), Warnings and Precautions (5.10, 5.13), Drug Interactions (7.2, 7.3, 7.4, 7.5, 7.6, 7.8, 7.10), and Use in Specific Populations (8.6)] . Store rocuronium bromide injection with the cap and ferrule intact and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] . 2.2 Dose for Tracheal Intubation The recommended initial dose of rocuronium bromide injection, regardless of anesthetic technique, is 0.6 mg/kg. Neuromuscular block sufficient for intubation (80% block or greater) is attained in a median (range) time of 1 (0.4-6) minute(s) and most patients have intubation completed within 2 minutes. This dose may be expected to provide 31 (15-85) minutes of clinical relaxation under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia. A lower dose of rocuronium bromide injection (0.45 mg/kg) may be used. Neuromuscular block sufficient for intubation (80% block or greater) is attained in a median (range) time of 1.3 (0.8-6.2) minute(s), and most patients have intubation completed within 2 minutes. This dose may be expected to provide 22 (12-31) minutes of clinical relaxation under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia. A large bolus dose of 0.9 or 1.2 mg/kg can be administered under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia without adverse effects to the cardiovascular system [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)] . 2.3 Rapid Sequence Intubation In appropriately premedicated and adequately anesthetized patients, rocuronium bromide injection 0.6 to 1.2 mg/kg will provide excellent or good intubating conditions in most patients in less than 2 minutes [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] . 2.4 Maintenance Dosing Maintenance doses of 0.1, 0.15, and 0.2 mg/kg rocuronium bromide injection, administered at 25% recovery of control T 1 (defined as 3 twitches of train-of-four), provide a median (range) of 12 (2-31), 17 (6-50), and 24 (7-69) minutes of clinical duration under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)] . A clinically insignificant cumulation of effect with repetitive maintenance dosing has been observed [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. 2.5 Use by Continuous Infusion Infusion at an initial rate of 10 to 12 mcg/kg/min of rocuronium bromide injection should be initiated only after early evidence of spontaneous recovery from an intubating dose. Due to rapid redistribution [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] and the associated rapid spontaneous recovery, initiation of the infusion after substantial return of neuromuscular function (more than 10% of control T 1 ) may necessitate additional bolus doses to maintain adequate block for surgery. Upon reaching the desired level of neuromuscular block, the infusion of rocuronium bromide injection must be individualized for each patient. Spontaneous recovery and reversal of neuromuscular blockade following discontinuation of rocuronium bromide infusion may be expected to proceed at rates comparable to that following comparable total doses administered by repetitive bolus injections [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)] . Infusion solutions of rocuronium bromide injection can be prepared by mixing rocuronium bromide injection with an appropriate infusion solution such as 5% glucose in water or lactated Ringers [see Dosage and Administration (2.7)] . Infusion rates of rocuronium bromide injection can be individualized for each patient using the following tables for 3 different concentrations of rocuronium bromide injection solution as guidelines: Table 1: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (0.5 mg/mL) * Patient Weight Drug Delivery Rate (mcg/kg/min) (kg) (lbs) 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14 16 Infusion Delivery Rate (mL/hr) 10 22 4.8 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 10.8 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 15 33 7.2 9 10.8 12.6 14.4 16.2 18 21.6 25.2 28.8 20 44 9.6 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 21.6 24 28.8 33.6 38.4 25 55 12 15 18 21 24 27 30 36 42 48 35 77 16.8 21 25.2 29.4 33.6 37.8 42 50.4 58.8 67.2 50 110 24 30 36 42 48 54 60 72 84 96 60 132 28.8 36 43.2 50.4 57.6 64.8 72 86.4 100.8 115.2 70 154 33.6 42 50.4 58.8 67.2 75.6 84 100.8 117.6 134.4 80 176 38.4 48 57.6 67.2 76.8 86.4 96 115.2 134.4 153.6 90 198 43.2 54 64.8 75.6 86.4 97.2 108 129.6 151.2 172.8 100 220 48 60 72 84 96 108 120 144 168 192 * 50 mg rocuronium bromide injection in 100 ml solution. Table 2: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (1 mg/mL) 100 mg rocuronium bromide injection in 100 ml solution. Patient Weight Drug Delivery Rate (mcg/kg/min) (kg) (lbs) 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14 16 Infusion Delivery Rate (mL/hr) 10 22 2.4 3 3.6 4.2 4.8 5.4 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 15 33 3.6 4.5 5.4 6.3 7.2 8.1 9 10.8 12.6 14.4 20 44 4.8 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 10.8 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 25 55 6 7.5 9 10.5 12 13.5 15 18 21 24 35 77 8.4 10.5 12.6 14.7 16.8 18.9 21 25.2 29.4 33.6 50 110 12 15 18 21 24 27 30 36 42 48 60 132 14.4 18 21.6 25.2 28.8 32.4 36 43.2 50.4 57.6 70 154 16.8 21 25.2 29.4 33.6 37.8 42 50.4 58.8 67.2 80 176 19.2 24 28.8 33.6 38.4 43.2 48 57.6 67.2 76.8 90 198 21.6 27 32.4 37.8 43.2 48.6 54 64.8 75.6 86.4 100 220 24 30 36 42 48 54 60 72 84 96 Table 3: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (5 mg/mL) 500 mg rocuronium bromide injection in 100 ml solution. Patient Weight Drug Delivery Rate (mcg/kg/min) (kg) (lbs) 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14 16 Infusion Delivery Rate (mL/hr) 10 22 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 1 1.1 1.2 1.4 1.7 1.9 15 33 0.7 0.9 1.1 1.3 1.4 1.6 1.8 2.2 2.5 2.9 20 44 1 1.2 1.4 1.7 1.9 2.2 2.4 2.9 3.4 3.8 25 55 1.2 1.5 1.8 2.1 2.4 2.7 3 3.6 4.2 4.8 35 77 1.7 2.1 2.5 2.9 3.4 3.8 4.2 5 5.9 6.7 50 110 2.4 3 3.6 4.2 4.8 5.4 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 60 132 2.9 3.6 4.3 5 5.8 6.5 7.2 8.6 10.1 11.5 70 154 3.4 4.2 5 5.9 6.7 7.6 8.4 10.1 11.8 13.4 80 176 3.8 4.8 5.8 6.7 7.7 8.6 9.6 11.5 13.4 15.4 90 198 4.3 5.4 6.5 7.6 8.6 9.7 10.8 13 15.1 17.3 100 220 4.8 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 10.8 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 2.6 Dosage in Specific Populations Pediatric Patients The recommended initial intubation dose of rocuronium bromide injection is 0.6 mg/kg; however, a lower dose of 0.45 mg/kg may be used depending on anesthetic technique and the age of the patient. For sevoflurane (induction) rocuronium bromide injection doses of 0.45 mg/kg and 0.6 mg/kg in general produce excellent to good intubating conditions within 75 seconds. When halothane is used, a 0.6 mg/kg dose of rocuronium bromide injection resulted in excellent to good intubating conditions within 60 seconds. When sevoflurane is used for induction and isoflurane/nitrous oxide for maintenance of general anesthesia, maintenance dosing of rocuronium bromide injection can be administered as bolus doses of 0.15 mg/kg at reappearance of T 3 in all pediatric age groups. When halothane is used for general anesthesia, patients ranging from 3 months old through adolescence can be administered rocuronium bromide injection maintenance doses of 0.075 to 0.125 mg/kg upon return of T 1 to 0.25% to provide clinical relaxation for 7 to 10 minutes. Alternatively, a continuous infusion of rocuronium bromide injection initiated at a rate of 12 mcg/kg/min upon return of T 1 to 10% (one twitch present in train-of-four) may also be used to maintain neuromuscular blockade in pediatric patients. The infusion of rocuronium bromide injection must be individualized for each patient. Spontaneous recovery and reversal of neuromuscular blockade following discontinuation of rocuronium bromide injection infusion may be expected to proceed at rates comparable to that following similar total exposure to single bolus doses [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Rocuronium bromide injection is not recommended for rapid sequence intubation in pediatric patients. Geriatric Patients Geriatric patients (65 years or older) exhibited a slightly prolonged median (range) clinical duration of 46 (22-73), 62 (49-75), and 94 (64-138) minutes under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia following doses of 0.6, 0.9, and 1.2 mg/kg, respectively. No differences in duration of neuromuscular blockade following maintenance doses of rocuronium bromide injection were observed between these subjects and younger subjects, but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) and Clinical Studies (14.2)]. [See also Warnings and Precautions (5.5).] Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment No differences from patients with normal hepatic and kidney function were observed for onset time at a dose of 0.6 mg/kg rocuronium bromide injection. Patients with renal failure may have a greater variation in duration of effect [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6, 8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Obese Patients In obese patients, the initial dose of rocuronium bromide injection 0.6 mg/kg should be based upon the patient's actual body weight [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] . An analysis across all US controlled clinical studies indicates that the pharmacodynamics of rocuronium bromide injection are not different between obese and nonobese patients when dosed based upon their actual body weight. Patients with Prolonged Circulation Time Because higher doses of rocuronium bromide injection produce a longer duration of action, the initial dosage should usually not be increased in these patients to reduce onset time; instead, in these situations, when feasible, more time should be allowed for the drug to achieve onset of effect [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] . Patients with Drugs or Conditions Causing Potentiation of Neuromuscular Block The neuromuscular blocking action of rocuronium bromide injection is potentiated by isoflurane and enflurane anesthesia. Potentiation is minimal when administration of the recommended dose of rocuronium bromide injection occurs prior to the administration of these potent inhalation agents. During 1 to 2 hours of infusion, the infusion rate of rocuronium bromide injection required to maintain about 95% block was decreased by as much as 40% under enflurane and isoflurane anesthesia [see Drug Interactions (7.3)] . 2.7 Preparation for Administration of Rocuronium Bromide Injection Diluent Compatibility Rocuronium bromide injection is compatible in solution with: 0.9% NaCl solution sterile water for injection 5% glucose in water lactated Ringers 5% glucose in saline Rocuronium bromide injection is compatible in the above solutions at concentrations up to 5 mg/mL for 24 hours at room temperature in plastic bags, glass bottles, and plastic syringe pumps. Drug Admixture Incompatibility Rocuronium bromide injection is physically incompatible when mixed with the following drugs: amphotericin hydrocortisone sodium succinate amoxicillin insulin azathioprine Intralipid cefazolin ketorolac cloxacillin lorazepam dexamethasone methohexital diazepam methylprednisolone erythromycin thiopental famotidine trimethoprim furosemide vancomycin If rocuronium bromide injection is administered via the same infusion line that is also used for other drugs, it is important that this infusion line is adequately flushed between administration of rocuronium bromide injection and drugs for which incompatibility with rocuronium bromide injection has been demonstrated or for which compatibility with rocuronium bromide injection has not been established. Rocuronium bromide injection should not be mixed with alkaline solutions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] . In patients in whom potentiation of, or resistance to, neuromuscular block is anticipated, a dose adjustment should be considered [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) , Warnings and Precautions (5.10 , 5.13) , Drug Interactions (7.2 , 7.3 , 7.4 , 7.5 , 7.6 , 7.8 , 7.10) , and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . Store rocuronium bromide injection with the cap and ferrule intact and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Under halothane, isoflurane, and enflurane anesthesia, some extension of the period of clinical relaxation should be expected [see Drug Interactions (7.3) ]. Neuromuscular block sufficient for intubation (80% block or greater) is attained in a median (range) time of 1.3 (0.8 to 6.2) minute(s), and most patients have intubation completed within 2 minutes. A large bolus dose of 0.9 or 1.2 mg/kg can be administered under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia without adverse effects to the cardiovascular system [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . 2.4 Maintenance Dosing Maintenance doses of 0.1, 0.15, and 0.2 mg/kg rocuronium bromide injection, administered at 25% recovery of control T 1 (defined as 3 twitches of train-of-four), provide a median (range) of 12 (2 to 31), 17 (6 to 50), and 24 (7 to 69) minutes of clinical duration under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)] . The rate of administration should be adjusted according to the patient’s twitch response as monitored with the use of a peripheral nerve stimulator. Infusion solutions of rocuronium bromide can be prepared by mixing rocuronium bromide injection with an appropriate infusion solution such as 5% glucose in water or lactated Ringers [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) ] . Infusion rates of rocuronium bromide can be individualized for each patient using the following tables for 3 different concentrations of rocuronium bromide solution as guidelines: Table 1: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (0.5 mg/mL) * * 50 mg rocuronium bromide in 100 mL solution. Patient Weight Drug Delivery Rate (mcg/kg/min) (kg) (lbs) 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14 16 Infusion Delivery Rate (mL/hr) 10 22 4.8 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 10.8 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 15 33 7.2 9 10.8 12.6 14.4 16.2 18 21.6 25.2 28.8 20 44 9.6 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 21.6 24 28.8 33.6 38.4 25 55 12 15 18 21 24 27 30 36 42 48 35 77 16.8 21 25.2 29.4 33.6 37.8 42 50.4 58.8 67.2 50 110 24 30 36 42 48 54 60 72 84 96 60 132 28.8 36 43.2 50.4 57.6 64.8 72 86.4 100.8 115.2 70 154 33.6 42 50.4 58.8 67.2 75.6 84 100.8 117.6 134.4 80 176 38.4 48 57.6 67.2 76.8 86.4 96 115.2 134.4 153.6 90 198 43.2 54 64.8 75.6 86.4 97.2 108 129.6 151.2 172.8 100 220 48 60 72 84 96 108 120 144 168 192 Table 2: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (1 mg/mL) * * 100 mg rocuronium bromide in 100 mL solution. Patient Weight Drug Delivery Rate (mcg/kg/min) (kg) (lbs) 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14 16 Infusion Delivery Rate (mL/hr) 10 22 2.4 3 3.6 4.2 4.8 5.4 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 15 33 3.6 4.5 5.4 6.3 7.2 8.1 9 10.8 12.6 14.4 20 44 4.8 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 10.8 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 25 55 6 7.5 9 10.5 12 13.5 15 18 21 24 35 77 8.4 10.5 12.6 14.7 16.8 18.9 21 25.2 29.4 33.6 50 110 12 15 18 21 24 27 30 36 42 48 60 132 14.4 18 21.6 25.2 28.8 32.4 36 43.2 50.4 57.6 70 154 16.8 21 25.2 29.4 33.6 37.8 42 50.4 58.8 67.2 80 176 19.2 24 28.8 33.6 38.4 43.2 48 57.6 67.2 76.8 90 198 21.6 27 32.4 37.8 43.2 48.6 54 64.8 75.6 86.4 100 220 24 30 36 42 48 54 60 72 84 96 Table 3: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (5 mg/mL)* * 500 mg rocuronium bromide in 100 mL solution. Alternatively, a continuous infusion of rocuronium bromide initiated at a rate of 12 mcg/kg/min upon return of T 1 to 10% (one twitch present in train-of-four) may also be used to maintain neuromuscular blockade in pediatric patients. Additional information for administration to pediatric patients of all age groups is presented elsewhere in the label [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Spontaneous recovery and reversal of neuromuscular blockade following discontinuation of rocuronium bromide infusion may be expected to proceed at rates comparable to that following similar total exposure to single bolus doses [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. No differences in duration of neuromuscular blockade following maintenance doses of rocuronium bromide injection were observed between these subjects and younger subjects, but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) and Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. [ See also Warnings and Precautions (5.5) .] Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment No differences from patients with normal hepatic and kidney function were observed for onset time at a dose of 0.6 mg/kg rocuronium bromide injection. Patients with renal failure may have a greater variation in duration of effect [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.6, 8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Obese Patients In obese patients, the initial dose of rocuronium bromide injection 0.6 mg/kg should be based upon the patient’s actual body weight [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. An analysis across all U.S. controlled clinical studies indicates that the pharmacodynamics of rocuronium bromide injection are not different between obese and nonobese patients when dosed based upon their actual body weight. Patients with Prolonged Circulation Time Because higher doses of rocuronium bromide injection produce a longer duration of action, the initial dosage should usually not be increased in these patients to reduce onset time; instead, in these situations, when feasible, more time should be allowed for the drug to achieve onset of effect [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. During 1 to 2 hours of infusion, the infusion rate of rocuronium bromide required to maintain about 95% block was decreased by as much as 40% under enflurane and isoflurane anesthesia [ see Drug Interactions (7.3) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION To be administered only by experienced clinicians or adequately trained individuals supervised by an experienced clinician familiar with the use, actions, characteristics, and complications of neuromuscular blocking agents ( 2.1 ) Individualize the dose for each patient ( 2.1 ) Peripheral nerve stimulator recommended for determination of drug response and need for additional doses, and to evaluate recovery ( 2.1 ) Store rocuronium bromide injection with cap and ferrule intact and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product ( 2.1 ) Tracheal intubation : Recommended initial dose is 0.6 mg/kg ( 2.2 ) Rapid sequence intubation : 0.6 to 1.2 mg/kg ( 2.3 ) Maintenance doses : Guided by response to prior dose, not administered until recovery is evident ( 2.4 ) Continuous infusion : Initial rate of 10 to 12 mcg/kg/min. Start only after early evidence of spontaneous recovery from an intubating dose ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Important Dosing and Administration Information Rocuronium bromide injection is for intravenous use only. In patients in whom potentiation of, or resistance to, neuromuscular block is anticipated, a dose adjustment should be considered [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) , Warnings and Precautions (5.10 , 5.13) , Drug Interactions (7.2 , 7.3 , 7.4 , 7.5 , 7.6 , 7.8 , 7.10) , and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. Store rocuronium bromide injection with the cap and ferrule intact and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. A large bolus dose of 0.9 or 1.2 mg/kg can be administered under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia without adverse effects to the cardiovascular system [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 2.4 Maintenance Dosing Maintenance doses of 0.1, 0.15, and 0.2 mg/kg rocuronium bromide, administered at 25% recovery of control T 1 (defined as 3 twitches of train-of-four), provide a median (range) of 12 (2 to 31), 17 (6 to 50) and 24 (7 to 69) minutes of clinical duration under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Due to rapid redistribution [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] and the associated rapid spontaneous recovery, initiation of the infusion after substantial return of neuromuscular function (more than 10% of control T 1 ), may necessitate additional bolus doses to maintain adequate block for surgery. Spontaneous recovery and reversal of neuromuscular blockade following discontinuation of rocuronium bromide infusion may be expected to proceed at rates comparable to that following comparable total doses administered by repetitive bolus injections [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Infusion solutions of rocuronium bromide can be prepared by mixing rocuronium bromide with an appropriate infusion solution such as 5% glucose in water or lactated Ringers [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) ]. Infusion rates of rocuronium bromide can be individualized for each patient using the following tables for 3 different concentrations of rocuronium bromide solution as guidelines: Table 1. Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (0.5 mg/mL)* Patient Weight Drug Delivery Rate (mcg/kg/min) (kg) (lbs) 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14 16 Infusion Delivery Rate (mL/hr) 10 22 4.8 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 10.8 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 15 33 7.2 9 10.8 12.6 14.4 16.2 18 21.6 25.2 28.8 20 44 9.6 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 21.6 24 28.8 33.6 38.4 25 55 12 15 18 21 24 27 30 36 42 48 35 77 16.8 21 25.2 29.4 33.6 37.8 42 50.4 58.8 67.2 50 110 24 30 36 42 48 54 60 72 84 96 60 132 28.8 36 43.2 50.4 57.6 64.8 72 86.4 100.8 115.2 70 154 33.6 42 50.4 58.8 67.2 75.6 84 100.8 117.6 134.4 80 176 38.4 48 57.6 67.2 76.8 86.4 96 115.2 134.4 153.6 90 198 43.2 54 64.8 75.6 86.4 97.2 108 129.6 151.2 172.8 100 220 48 60 72 84 96 108 120 144 168 192 * 50 mg rocuronium bromide in 100 mL solution. Table 2. Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (1 mg/mL)* Patient Weight Drug Delivery Rate (mcg/kg/min) (kg) (lbs) 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14 16 Infusion Delivery Rate (mL/hr) 10 22 2.4 3 3.6 4.2 4.8 5.4 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 15 33 3.6 4.5 5.4 6.3 7.2 8.1 9 10.8 12.6 14.4 20 44 4.8 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 10.8 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 25 55 6 7.5 9 10.5 12 13.5 15 18 21 24 35 77 8.4 10.5 12.6 14.7 16.8 18.9 21 25.2 29.4 33.6 50 110 12 15 18 21 24 27 30 36 42 48 60 132 14.4 18 21.6 25.2 28.8 32.4 36 43.2 50.4 57.6 70 154 16.8 21 25.2 29.4 33.6 37.8 42 50.4 58.8 67.2 80 176 19.2 24 28.8 33.6 38.4 43.2 48 57.6 67.2 76.8 90 198 21.6 27 32.4 37.8 43.2 48.6 54 64.8 75.6 86.4 100 220 24 30 36 42 48 54 60 72 84 96 * 100 mg rocuronium bromide in 100 mL solution Table 3. Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (5 mg/mL)* Patient Weight Drug Delivery Rate (mcg/kg/min) (kg) (lbs) 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14 16 Infusion Delivery Rate (mL/hr) 10 22 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 1 1.1 1.2 1.4 1.7 1.9 15 33 0.7 0.9 1.1 1.3 1.4 1.6 1.8 2.2 2.5 2.9 20 44 1 1.2 1.4 1.7 1.9 2.2 2.4 2.9 3.4 3.8 25 55 1.2 1.5 1.8 2.1 2.4 2.7 3 3.6 4.2 4.8 35 77 1.7 2.1 2.5 2.9 3.4 3.8 4.2 5 5.9 6.7 50 110 2.4 3 3.6 4.2 4.8 5.4 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 60 132 2.9 3.6 4.3 5 5.8 6.5 7.2 8.6 10.1 11.5 70 154 3.4 4.2 5 5.9 6.7 7.6 8.4 10.1 11.8 13.4 80 176 3.8 4.8 5.8 6.7 7.7 8.6 9.6 11.5 13.4 15.4 90 198 4.3 5.4 6.5 7.6 8.6 9.7 10.8 13 15.1 17.3 100 220 4.8 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 10.8 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 * 500 mg rocuronium bromide in 100 mL solution 2.6 Dosage in Specific Populations Pediatric Patients The recommended initial intubation dose of rocuronium bromide is 0.6 mg/kg; however, a lower dose of 0.45 mg/kg may be used depending on anesthetic technique and the age of the patient. For sevoflurane, (induction) rocuronium bromide doses of 0.45 mg/kg and 0.6 mg/kg in general produce excellent to good intubating conditions within 75 seconds. Additional information for administration to pediatric patients of all age groups is presented elsewhere in the label [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Spontaneous recovery and reversal of neuromuscular blockade following discontinuation of rocuronium bromide infusion may be expected to proceed at rates comparable to that following similar total exposure to single bolus doses [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. No differences in duration of neuromuscular blockade following maintenance doses of rocuronium bromide were observed between these subjects and younger subjects, but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) and Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. [See also Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Patients with renal failure may have a greater variation in duration of effect [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6 , 8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Obese Patients In obese patients, the initial dose of rocuronium bromide 0.6 mg/kg should be based upon the patient’s actual body weight [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Patients with Prolonged Circulation Time Because higher doses of rocuronium bromide produce a longer duration of action, the initial dosage should usually not be increased in these patients to reduce onset time; instead, in these situations, when feasible, more time should be allowed for the drug to achieve onset of effect [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. During 1 to 2 hours of infusion, the infusion rate of rocuronium bromide required to maintain about 95% block was decreased by as much as 40% under enflurane and isoflurane anesthesia [see Drug Interactions (7.3) ]. Drug Admixture Incompatibility Rocuronium bromide injection is physically incompatible when mixed with the following drugs: amphotericin hydrocortisone sodium succinate amoxicillin insulin azathioprine intralipid cefazolin ketorolac cloxacillin lorazepam dexamethasone methohexital diazepam methylprednisolone erythromycin thiopental famotidine trimethoprim furosemide vancomycin If rocuronium bromide injection is administered via the same infusion line that is also used for other drugs, it is important that this infusion line is adequately flushed between administration of rocuronium bromide and drugs for which incompatibility with rocuronium bromide has been demonstrated or for which compatibility with rocuronium bromide has not been established. Rocuronium bromide injection should not be mixed with alkaline solutions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ]. Store rocuronium bromide with the cap and ferrule intact and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ]. Infusion rates of rocuronium bromide can be individualized for each patient using the following tables for 3 different concentrations of rocuronium bromide solution as guidelines: Table 1: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (0.5 mg/mL)* *50 mg rocuronium bromide in 100 mL solution. Table 2: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (1 mg/mL)* *100 mg rocuronium bromide in 100 mL solution. No differences in duration of neuromuscular blockade following maintenance doses of rocuronium bromide were observed between these subjects and younger subjects, but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out [see Clinical Pharmacology 12 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 )].[See also Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )]. ( 2.1 ) Store Rocuronium Bromide Injection with the cap and ferrule intact and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product. ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Important Dosing and Administration Information Rocuronium Bromide is for intravenous use only. In patients in whom potentiation of, or resistance to, neuromuscular block is anticipated, a dose adjustment should be considered [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 , 5.13 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.2 , 7.3 , 7.4 , 7.5 , 7.6 , 7.8 , 7.10 ), and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . Risk of Medication Errors : Accidental administration of neuromuscular blocking agents may be fatal. Store Rocuronium Bromide Injection with the cap and ferrule intact and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Neuromuscular block sufficient for intubation (80% block or greater) is attained in a median (range) time of 1 (0.4–6) minute(s) and most patients have intubation completed within 2 minutes. This dose may be expected to provide 31 (15–85) minutes of clinical relaxation under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia. Under halothane, isoflurane, and enflurane anesthesia, some extension of the period of clinical relaxation should be expected [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 )] . Neuromuscular block sufficient for intubation (80% block or greater) is attained in a median (range) time of 1.3 (0.8–6.2) minute(s), and most patients have intubation completed within 2 minutes. This dose may be expected to provide 22 (12–31) minutes of clinical relaxation under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia. A large bolus dose of 0.9 or 1.2 mg/kg can be administered under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia without adverse effects to the cardiovascular system [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . 2.3 Rapid Sequence Intubation In appropriately premedicated and adequately anesthetized patients, Rocuronium Bromide 0.6 to 1.2 mg/kg will provide excellent or good intubating conditions in most patients in less than 2 minutes [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . 2.4 Maintenance Dosing Maintenance doses of 0.1, 0.15, and 0.2 mg/kg Rocuronium Bromide, administered at 25% recovery of control T 1 (defined as 3 twitches of train-of-four), provide a median (range) of 12 (2–31), 17 (6–50), and 24 (7–69) minutes of clinical duration under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . A clinically insignificant cumulation of effect with repetitive maintenance dosing has been observed [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . Due to rapid redistribution [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] and the associated rapid spontaneous recovery, initiation of the infusion after substantial return of neuromuscular function (more than 10% of control T 1 ) may necessitate additional bolus doses to maintain adequate block for surgery. Infusion rates of Rocuronium Bromide can be individualized for each patient using the following tables for 3 different concentrations of Rocuronium Bromide solution as guidelines: Table 1: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (0.5 mg/mL) 50 mg Rocuronium Bromide in 100 mL solution Patient Weight Drug Delivery Rate (mcg/kg/min) (kg) (lbs) 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14 16 Infusion Delivery Rate (mL/hr) 10 22 4.8 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 10.8 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 15 33 7.2 9 10.8 12.6 14.4 16.2 18 21.6 25.2 28.8 20 44 9.6 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 21.6 24 28.8 33.6 38.4 25 55 12 15 18 21 24 27 30 36 42 48 35 77 16.8 21 25.2 29.4 33.6 37.8 42 50.4 58.8 67.2 50 110 24 30 36 42 48 54 60 72 84 96 60 132 28.8 36 43.2 50.4 57.6 64.8 72 86.4 100.8 115.2 70 154 33.6 42 50.4 58.8 67.2 75.6 84 100.8 117.6 134.4 80 176 38.4 48 57.6 67.2 76.8 86.4 96 115.2 134.4 153.6 90 198 43.2 54 64.8 75.6 86.4 97.2 108 129.6 151.2 172.8 100 220 48 60 72 84 96 108 120 144 168 192 Table 2: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (1 mg/mL) 100 mg Rocuronium Bromide in 100 mL solution Patient Weight Drug Delivery Rate (mcg/kg/min) (kg) (lbs) 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14 16 Infusion Delivery Rate (mL/hr) 10 22 2.4 3 3.6 4.2 4.8 5.4 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 15 33 3.6 4.5 5.4 6.3 7.2 8.1 9 10.8 12.6 14.4 20 44 4.8 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 10.8 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 25 55 6 7.5 9 10.5 12 13.5 15 18 21 24 35 77 8.4 10.5 12.6 14.7 16.8 18.9 21 25.2 29.4 33.6 50 110 12 15 18 21 24 27 30 36 42 48 60 132 14.4 18 21.6 25.2 28.8 32.4 36 43.2 50.4 57.6 70 154 16.8 21 25.2 29.4 33.6 37.8 42 50.4 58.8 67.2 80 176 19.2 24 28.8 33.6 38.4 43.2 48 57.6 67.2 76.8 90 198 21.6 27 32.4 37.8 43.2 48.6 54 64.8 75.6 86.4 100 220 24 30 36 42 48 54 60 72 84 96 Table 3: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (5 mg/mL) 500 mg Rocuronium Bromide in 100 mL solution Patient Weight Drug Delivery Rate (mcg/kg/min) (kg) (lbs) 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14 16 Infusion Delivery Rate (mL/hr) 10 22 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 1 1.1 1.2 1.4 1.7 1.9 15 33 0.7 0.9 1.1 1.3 1.4 1.6 1.8 2.2 2.5 2.9 20 44 1 1.2 1.4 1.7 1.9 2.2 2.4 2.9 3.4 3.8 25 55 1.2 1.5 1.8 2.1 2.4 2.7 3 3.6 4.2 4.8 35 77 1.7 2.1 2.5 2.9 3.4 3.8 4.2 5 5.9 6.7 50 110 2.4 3 3.6 4.2 4.8 5.4 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 60 132 2.9 3.6 4.3 5 5.8 6.5 7.2 8.6 10.1 11.5 70 154 3.4 4.2 5 5.9 6.7 7.6 8.4 10.1 11.8 13.4 80 176 3.8 4.8 5.8 6.7 7.7 8.6 9.6 11.5 13.4 15.4 90 198 4.3 5.4 6.5 7.6 8.6 9.7 10.8 13 15.1 17.3 100 220 4.8 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 10.8 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 2.6 Dosage in Specific Populations Pediatric Patients The recommended initial intubation dose of Rocuronium Bromide is 0.6 mg/kg; however, a lower dose of 0.45 mg/kg may be used depending on anesthetic technique and the age of the patient. Additional information for administration to pediatric patients of all age groups is presented elsewhere in the label [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . Geriatric Patients Geriatric patients (65 years or older) exhibited a slightly prolonged median (range) clinical duration of 46 (22–73), 62 (49–75), and 94 (64–138) minutes under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia following doses of 0.6, 0.9, and 1.2 mg/kg, respectively. No differences in duration of neuromuscular blockade following maintenance doses of Rocuronium Bromide were observed between these subjects and younger subjects, but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ]. [ See also Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) .] Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment No differences from patients with normal hepatic and kidney function were observed for onset time at a dose of 0.6 mg/kg Rocuronium Bromide. Patients with renal failure may have a greater variation in duration of effect [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 , 8.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Obese Patients In obese patients, the initial dose of Rocuronium Bromide 0.6 mg/kg should be based upon the patient's actual body weight [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Patients with Prolonged Circulation Time Because higher doses of Rocuronium Bromide produce a longer duration of action, the initial dosage should usually not be increased in these patients to reduce onset time; instead, in these situations, when feasible, more time should be allowed for the drug to achieve onset of effect [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] . During 1 to 2 hours of infusion, the infusion rate of Rocuronium Bromide required to maintain about 95% block was decreased by as much as 40% under enflurane and isoflurane anesthesia [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 )] . 2.7 Preparation for Administration of Rocuronium Bromide Diluent Compatibility: Rocuronium Bromide is compatible in solution with: 0.9% NaCl solution 5% glucose in saline lactated Ringers 5% glucose in water sterile water for injection Rocuronium Bromide is compatible in the above solutions at concentrations up to 5 mg/mL for 24 hours at room temperature in plastic bags, glass bottles, and plastic syringe pumps. Drug Admixture Incompatibility: Rocuronium Bromide is physically incompatible when mixed with the following drugs: amphotericin dexamethasone hydrocortisone sodium succinate methohexital amoxicillin diazepam insulin methylprednisolone azathioprine erythromycin intralipid thiopental cefazolin famotidine ketorolac trimethoprim cloxacillin furosemide lorazepam vancomycin If Rocuronium Bromide is administered via the same infusion line that is also used for other drugs, it is important that this infusion line is adequately flushed between administration of Rocuronium Bromide and drugs for which incompatibility with Rocuronium Bromide has been demonstrated or for which compatibility with Rocuronium Bromide has not been established. Rocuronium Bromide should not be mixed with alkaline solutions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )] . ( 2.1 ) Tracheal intubation: Recommended initial dose is 0.6 mg/kg. ( 2.2 ) Rapid sequence intubation: 0.6 to 1.2 mg/kg. ( 2.3 ) Maintenance doses: Guided by response to prior dose, not administered until recovery is evident. ( 2.4 ) Continuous infusion: Initial rate of 10 to 12 mcg/kg/min. Risk of Medication Errors: Accidental administration of neuromuscular blocking agents may be fatal. 2.3 Rapid Sequence Intubation In appropriately premedicated and adequately anesthetized patients, Rocuronium Bromide Injection 0.6 to 1.2 mg/kg will provide excellent or good intubating conditions in most patients in less than 2 minutes [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 2.4 Maintenance Dosing Maintenance doses of 0.1, 0.15, and 0.2 mg/kg Rocuronium Bromide Injection, administered at 25% recovery of control T 1 (defined as 3 twitches of train-of-four), provide a median (range) of 12 (2 to 31), 17 (6 to 50), and 24 (7 to 69) minutes of clinical duration under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Due to rapid redistribution [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] and the associated rapid spontaneous recovery, initiation of the infusion after substantial return of neuromuscular function (more than 10% of control T 1 ) may necessitate additional bolus doses to maintain adequate block for surgery. Spontaneous recovery and reversal of neuromuscular blockade following discontinuation of Rocuronium Bromide Injection infusion may be expected to proceed at rates comparable to that following comparable total doses administered by repetitive bolus injections [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Infusion solutions of Rocuronium Bromide Injection can be prepared by mixing Rocuronium Bromide Injection with an appropriate infusion solution such as 5% glucose in water or lactated Ringers [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 ) ]. Infusion rates of Rocuronium Bromide Injection can be individualized for each patient using the following tables for 3 different concentrations of rocuronium bromide solution as guidelines: TABLE 1: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (0.5 mg/mL)* Patient Weight Drug Delivery Rate (mcg/kg/min) (kg) (lbs) 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14 16 Infusion Delivery Rate (mL/hr) 10 22 4.8 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 10.8 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 15 33 7.2 9 10.8 12.6 14.4 16.2 18 21.6 25.2 28.8 20 44 9.6 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 21.6 24 28.8 33.6 38.4 25 55 12 15 18 21 24 27 30 36 42 48 35 77 16.8 21 25.2 29.4 33.6 37.8 42 50.4 58.8 67.2 50 110 24 30 36 42 48 54 60 72 84 96 60 132 28.8 36 43.2 50.4 57.6 64.8 72 86.4 100.8 115.2 70 154 33.6 42 50.4 58.8 67.2 75.6 84 100.8 117.6 134.4 80 176 38.4 48 57.6 67.2 76.8 86.4 96 115.2 134.4 153.6 90 198 43.2 54 64.8 75.6 86.4 97.2 108 129.6 151.2 172.8 100 220 48 60 72 84 96 108 120 144 168 192 * 50 mg Rocuronium Bromide Injection in 100 mL solution. TABLE 2: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (1 mg/mL)* Patient Weight Drug Delivery Rate (mcg/kg/min) (kg) (lbs) 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14 16 Infusion Delivery Rate (mL/hr) 10 22 2.4 3 3.6 4.2 4.8 5.4 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 15 33 3.6 4.5 5.4 6.3 7.2 8.1 9 10.8 12.6 14.4 20 44 4.8 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 10.8 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 25 55 6 7.5 9 10.5 12 13.5 15 18 21 24 35 77 8.4 10.5 12.6 14.7 16.8 18.9 21 25.2 29.4 33.6 50 110 12 15 18 21 24 27 30 36 42 48 60 132 14.4 18 21.6 25.2 28.8 32.4 36 43.2 50.4 57.6 70 154 16.8 21 25.2 29.4 33.6 37.8 42 50.4 58.8 67.2 80 176 19.2 24 28.8 33.6 38.4 43.2 48 57.6 67.2 76.8 90 198 21.6 27 32.4 37.8 43.2 48.6 54 64.8 75.6 86.4 100 220 24 30 36 42 48 54 60 72 84 96 * 100 mg Rocuronium Bromide Injection in 100 mL solution. TABLE 3: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (5 mg/mL)* Patient Weight Drug Delivery Rate (mcg/kg/min) (kg) (lbs) 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14 16 Infusion Delivery Rate (mL/hr) 10 22 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 1 1.1 1.2 1.4 1.7 1.9 15 33 0.7 0.9 1.1 1.3 1.4 1.6 1.8 2.2 2.5 2.9 20 44 1 1.2 1.4 1.7 1.9 2.2 2.4 2.9 3.4 3.8 25 55 1.2 1.5 1.8 2.1 2.4 2.7 3 3.6 4.2 4.8 35 77 1.7 2.1 2.5 2.9 3.4 3.8 4.2 5 5.9 6.7 50 110 2.4 3 3.6 4.2 4.8 5.4 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 60 132 2.9 3.6 4.3 5 5.8 6.5 7.2 8.6 10.1 11.5 70 154 3.4 4.2 5 5.9 6.7 7.6 8.4 10.1 11.8 13.4 80 176 3.8 4.8 5.8 6.7 7.7 8.6 9.6 11.5 13.4 15.4 90 198 4.3 5.4 6.5 7.6 8.6 9.7 10.8 13 15.1 17.3 100 220 4.8 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 10.8 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 * 500 mg Rocuronium Bromide Injection in 100 mL solution. 2.6 Dosage in Specific Populations Pediatric Patients: The recommended initial intubation dose of Rocuronium Bromide Injection is 0.6 mg/kg; however, a lower dose of 0.45 mg/kg may be used depending on anesthetic technique and the age of the patient. Additional information for administration to pediatric patients of all age groups is presented elsewhere in the label [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) ]. Spontaneous recovery and reversal of neuromuscular blockade following discontinuation of Rocuronium Bromide Injection infusion may be expected to proceed at rates comparable to that following similar total exposure to single bolus doses [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) ]. Geriatric Patients: Geriatric patients (65 years or older) exhibited a slightly prolonged median (range) clinical duration of 46 (22 to 73), 62 (49 to 75), and 94 (64 to 138) minutes under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia following doses of 0.6, 0.9, and 1.2 mg/kg, respectively. No differences in duration of neuromuscular blockade following maintenance doses of Rocuronium Bromide Injection were observed between these subjects and younger subjects, but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment: No differences from patients with normal hepatic and kidney function were observed for onset time at a dose of 0.6 mg/kg Rocuronium Bromide Injection. Obese Patients: In obese patients, the initial dose of Rocuronium Bromide Injection 0.6 mg/kg should be based upon the patient’s actual body weight [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1) ]. Patients with Prolonged Circulation Time: Because higher doses of Rocuronium Bromide Injection produce a longer duration of action, the initial dosage should usually not be increased in these patients to reduce onset time; instead, in these situations, when feasible, more time should be allowed for the drug to achieve onset of effect [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )]. Patients with Drugs or Conditions Causing Potentiation of Neuromuscular Block: The neuromuscular blocking action of Rocuronium Bromide Injection is potentiated by isoflurane and enflurane anesthesia. During 1 to 2 hours of infusion, the infusion rate of Rocuronium Bromide Injection required to maintain about 95% block was decreased by as much as 40% under enflurane and isoflurane anesthesia [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 ) ]. 2.7 Preparation for Administration of Rocuronium Bromide Injection Diluent Compatibility: Rocuronium Bromide Injection is compatible in solution with: 0.9% NaCl solution sterile water for injection 5% glucose in water lactated Ringers 5% glucose in saline Rocuronium Bromide Injection is compatible in the above solutions at concentrations up to 5 mg/mL for 24 hours at room temperature in plastic bags, glass bottles, and plastic syringe pumps. Drug Admixture Incompatibility: Rocuronium Bromide Injection is physically incompatible when mixed with the following drugs: amphotericin hydrocortisone sodium succinate amoxicillin insulin azathioprine Intralipid cefazolin ketorolac cloxacillin lorazepam dexamethasone methohexital diazepam methylprednisolone erythromycin thiopental famotidine trimethoprim furosemide vancomycin If Rocuronium Bromide Injection is administered via the same infusion line that is also used for other drugs, it is important that this infusion line is adequately flushed between administration of Rocuronium Bromide Injection and drugs for which incompatibility with Rocuronium Bromide Injection has been demonstrated or for which compatibility with Rocuronium Bromide Injection has not been established. Rocuronium Bromide Injection should not be mixed with alkaline solutions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )]. ( 2.1 ) • Individualize the dose for each patient. ( 2.1 ) • Peripheral nerve stimulator recommended for determination of drug response and need for additional doses, and to evaluate recovery. ( 2.1 ) • Store rocuronium bromide with cap and ferrule intact and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product. ( 2.1 ) • Tracheal intubation: Recommended initial dose is 0.6 mg/kg. ( 2.2 ) • Rapid sequence intubation: 0.6 to 1.2 mg/kg. ( 2.3 ) • Maintenance doses: Guided by response to prior dose, not administered until recovery is evident. ( 2.4 ) • Continuous infusion: Initial rate of 10 to 12 mcg/kg/min. In patients in whom potentiation of, or resistance to, neuromuscular block is anticipated, a dose adjustment should be considered [ see Dosage and Administration (2.6) , Warnings and Precautions (5.10 , 5.13 ), Drug Interactions (7.2 , 7.3 , 7.4 , 7.5 , 7.6 , 7.8 , 7.10 ), and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. Store rocuronium bromide with the cap and ferrule intact and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Under halothane, isoflurane, and enflurane anesthesia, some extension of the period of clinical relaxation should be expected [ see Drug Interactions (7.3) ]. A large bolus dose of 0.9 or 1.2 mg/kg can be administered under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia without adverse effects to the cardiovascular system [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 2.3 Rapid Sequence Intubation In appropriately premedicated and adequately anesthetized patients, rocuronium bromide injection 0.6 to 1.2 mg/kg will provide excellent or good intubating conditions in most patients in less than 2 minutes [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 2.4 Maintenance Dosing Maintenance doses of 0.1, 0.15, and 0.2 mg/kg rocuronium bromide injection, administered at 25% recovery of control T 1 (defined as 3 twitches of train-of-four), provide a median (range) of 12 (2 to 31), 17 (6 to 50) and 24 (7 to 69) minutes of clinical duration under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. A clinically insignificant cumulation of effect with repetitive maintenance dosing has been observed [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Due to rapid redistribution [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] and the associated rapid spontaneous recovery, initiation of the infusion after substantial return of neuromuscular function (more than 10% of control T 1 ), may necessitate additional bolus doses to maintain adequate block for surgery. Spontaneous recovery and reversal of neuromuscular blockade following discontinuation of rocuronium bromide infusion may be expected to proceed at rates comparable to that following comparable total doses administered by repetitive bolus injections [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Infusion solutions of rocuronium bromide injection can be prepared by mixing rocuronium bromide injection with an appropriate infusion solution such as 5% glucose in water or lactated Ringers [ see Dosage and Administration (2.7) ]. Infusion rates of rocuronium bromide injection can be individualized for each patient using the following tables for 3 different concentrations of rocuronium bromide injection solution as guidelines: Table 1: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (0.5 mg/mL) 50 mg rocuronium bromide injection in 100 mL solution Patient Weight Drug Delivery Rate (mcg/kg/min) (kg) (lbs) 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14 16 Infusion Delivery Rate (mL/hr) 10 22 4.8 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 10.8 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 15 33 7.2 9 10.8 12.6 14.4 16.2 18 21.6 25.2 28.8 20 44 9.6 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 21.6 24 28.8 33.6 38.4 25 55 12 15 18 21 24 27 30 36 42 48 35 77 16.8 21 25.2 29.4 33.6 37.8 42 50.4 58.8 67.2 50 110 24 30 36 42 48 54 60 72 84 96 60 132 28.8 36 43.2 50.4 57.6 64.8 72 86.4 100.8 115.2 70 154 33.6 42 50.4 58.8 67.2 75.6 84 100.8 117.6 134.4 80 176 38.4 48 57.6 67.2 76.8 86.4 96 115.2 134.4 153.6 90 198 43.2 54 64.8 75.6 86.4 97.2 108 129.6 151.2 172.8 100 220 48 60 72 84 96 108 120 144 168 192 Table 2: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (1 mg/mL) 100 mg rocuronium bromide injection in 100 mL solution Patient Weight Drug Delivery Rate (mcg/kg/min) (kg) (lbs) 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14 16 Infusion Delivery Rate (mL/hr) 10 22 2.4 3 3.6 4.2 4.8 5.4 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 15 33 3.6 4.5 5.4 6.3 7.2 8.1 9 10.8 12.6 14.4 20 44 4.8 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 10.8 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 25 55 6 7.5 9 10.5 12 13.5 15 18 21 24 35 77 8.4 10.5 12.6 14.7 16.8 18.9 21 25.2 29.4 33.6 50 110 12 15 18 21 24 27 30 36 42 48 60 132 14.4 18 21.6 25.2 28.8 32.4 36 43.2 50.4 57.6 70 154 16.8 21 25.2 29.4 33.6 37.8 42 50.4 58.8 67.2 80 176 19.2 24 28.8 33.6 38.4 43.2 48 57.6 67.2 76.8 90 198 21.6 27 32.4 37.8 43.2 48.6 54 64.8 75.6 86.4 100 220 24 30 36 42 48 54 60 72 84 96 Table 3: Infusion Rates Using Rocuronium Bromide Injection (5 mg/mL) 500 mg rocuronium bromide injection in 100 mL solution Patient Weight Drug Delivery Rate (mcg/kg/min) (kg) (lbs) 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14 16 Infusion Delivery Rate (mL/hr) 10 22 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 1 1.1 1.2 1.4 1.7 1.9 15 33 0.7 0.9 1.1 1.3 1.4 1.6 1.8 2.2 2.5 2.9 20 44 1 1.2 1.4 1.7 1.9 2.2 2.4 2.9 3.4 3.8 25 55 1.2 1.5 1.8 2.1 2.4 2.7 3 3.6 4.2 4.8 35 77 1.7 2.1 2.5 2.9 3.4 3.8 4.2 5 5.9 6.7 50 110 2.4 3 3.6 4.2 4.8 5.4 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 60 132 2.9 3.6 4.3 5 5.8 6.5 7.2 8.6 10.1 11.5 70 154 3.4 4.2 5 5.9 6.7 7.6 8.4 10.1 11.8 13.4 80 176 3.8 4.8 5.8 6.7 7.7 8.6 9.6 11.5 13.4 15.4 90 198 4.3 5.4 6.5 7.6 8.6 9.7 10.8 13 15.1 17.3 100 220 4.8 6 7.2 8.4 9.6 10.8 12 14.4 16.8 19.2 2.6 Dosage in Specific Populations Pediatric Patients The recommended initial intubation dose of rocuronium bromide injection is 0.6 mg/kg; however, a lower dose of 0.45 mg/kg may be used depending on anesthetic technique and the age of the patient. Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment No differences from patients with normal hepatic and kidney function were observed for onset time at a dose of 0.6 mg/kg rocuronium bromide injection. Patients with renal failure may have a greater variation in duration of effect [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.6 , 8.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Obese Patients In obese patients, the initial dose of rocuronium bromide injection 0.6 mg/kg should be based upon the patient's actual body weight [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. During 1 to 2 hours of infusion, the infusion rate of rocuronium bromide injection required to maintain about 95% block was decreased by as much as 40% under enflurane and isoflurane anesthesia [ see Drug Interactions (7.3) ]. Rocuronium bromide injection should not be mixed with alkaline solutions [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ].
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rocuronium bromide is contraindicated in patients known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to rocuronium bromide or other neuromuscular blocking agents [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to rocuronium bromide or other neuromuscular blocking agents. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rocuronium bromide is contraindicated in patients known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to rocuronium bromide or other neuromuscular blocking agents [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rocuronium bromide injection is contraindicated in patients known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to rocuronium bromide or other neuromuscular blocking agents [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rocuronium bromide injection is contraindicated in patients known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to rocuronium bromide or other neuromuscular blocking agents [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rocuronium bromide injection is contraindicated in patients known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to rocuronium bromide or other neuromuscular blocking agents [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rocuronium bromide is contraindicated in patients known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to rocuronium bromide or other neuromuscular blocking agents [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to rocuronium bromide or other neuromuscular blocking agents ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rocuronium Bromide is contraindicated in patients known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to rocuronium bromide or other neuromuscular blocking agents [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rocuronium bromide is contraindicated in patients known to have hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to rocuronium bromide or other neuromuscular blocking agents [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. • Hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to rocuronium bromide or other neuromuscular blocking agents.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Succinylcholine : Use before succinylcholine has not been studied. ( 7.11 ) Nondepolarizing muscle relaxants : Interactions have been observed. ( 7.7 ) Enhanced rocuronium bromide activity possible : Inhalation anesthetics ( 7.3 ), certain antibiotics ( 7.1 ), quinidine ( 7.10 ), magnesium ( 7.6 ), lithium ( 7.4 ), local anesthetics ( 7.5 ), procainamide. ( 7.8 ) Reduced rocuronium bromide activity possible : Anticonvulsants. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Antibiotics Drugs which may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of nondepolarizing agents such as rocuronium bromide include certain antibiotics (e.g., aminoglycosides; vancomycin; tetracyclines; bacitracin; polymyxins; colistin; and sodium colistimethate). If these antibiotics are used in conjunction with rocuronium bromide, prolongation of neuromuscular block may occur. 7.2 Anticonvulsants In 2 of 4 patients receiving chronic anticonvulsant therapy, apparent resistance to the effects of rocuronium bromide was observed in the form of diminished magnitude of neuromuscular block, or shortened clinical duration. As with other nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking drugs, if rocuronium bromide is administered to patients chronically receiving anticonvulsant agents such as carbamazepine or phenytoin, shorter durations of neuromuscular block may occur and infusion rates may be higher due to the development of resistance to nondepolarizing muscle relaxants. While the mechanism for development of this resistance is not known, receptor up-regulation may be a contributing factor [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )]. 7.3 Inhalation Anesthetics Use of inhalation anesthetics has been shown to enhance the activity of other neuromuscular blocking agents (enflurane > isoflurane > halothane). Isoflurane and enflurane may also prolong the duration of action of initial and maintenance doses of rocuronium bromide and decrease the average infusion requirement of rocuronium bromide by 40% compared to opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia. No definite interaction between rocuronium bromide and halothane has been demonstrated. In one study, use of enflurane in 10 patients resulted in a 20% increase in mean clinical duration of the initial intubating dose, and a 37% increase in the duration of subsequent maintenance doses, when compared in the same study to 10 patients under opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia. The clinical duration of initial doses of rocuronium bromide of 0.57 to 0.85 mg/kg under enflurane or isoflurane anesthesia, as used clinically, was increased by 11% and 23%, respectively. The duration of maintenance doses was affected to a greater extent, increasing by 30% to 50% under either enflurane or isoflurane anesthesia. Potentiation by these agents is also observed with respect to the infusion rates of rocuronium bromide required to maintain approximately 95% neuromuscular block. Under isoflurane and enflurane anesthesia, the infusion rates are decreased by approximately 40% compared to opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia. The median spontaneous recovery time (from 25% to 75% of control T 1 ) is not affected by halothane, but is prolonged by enflurane (15% longer) and isoflurane (62% longer). Reversal-induced recovery of rocuronium bromide neuromuscular block is minimally affected by anesthetic technique [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )]. 7.4 Lithium Carbonate Lithium has been shown to increase the duration of neuromuscular block and decrease infusion requirements of neuromuscular blocking agents [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )]. 7.5 Local Anesthetics Local anesthetics have been shown to increase the duration of neuromuscular block and decrease infusion requirements of neuromuscular blocking agents [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )]. 7.6 Magnesium Magnesium salts administered for the management of toxemia of pregnancy may enhance neuromuscular blockade [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )]. 7.7 Nondepolarizing Muscle Relaxants There are no controlled studies documenting the use of rocuronium bromide before or after other nondepolarizing muscle relaxants. Interactions have been observed when other nondepolarizing muscle relaxants have been administered in succession. 7.8 Procainamide Procainamide has been shown to increase the duration of neuromuscular block and decrease infusion requirements of neuromuscular blocking agents [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )]. 7.9 Propofol The use of propofol for induction and maintenance of anesthesia does not alter the clinical duration or recovery characteristics following recommended doses of rocuronium bromide. 7.10 Quinidine Injection of quinidine during recovery from use of muscle relaxants is associated with recurrent paralysis. This possibility must also be considered for rocuronium bromide [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )]. 7.11 Succinylcholine The use of rocuronium bromide before succinylcholine, for the purpose of attenuating some of the side effects of succinylcholine, has not been studied. If rocuronium bromide is administered following administration of succinylcholine, it should not be given until recovery from succinylcholine has been observed. The median duration of action of rocuronium bromide 0.6 mg/kg administered after a 1 mg/kg dose of succinylcholine when T 1 returned to 75% of control was 36 minutes (range: 14 to 57, n=12) vs. 28 minutes (range: 17 to 51, n=12) without succinylcholine. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Antibiotics Drugs which may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of nondepolarizing agents such as rocuronium bromide include certain antibiotics (e.g., aminoglycosides; vancomycin; tetracyclines; bacitracin; polymyxins; colistin; and sodium colistimethate). While the mechanism for development of this resistance is not known, receptor up-regulation may be a contributing factor [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )]. The median spontaneous recovery time (from 25% to 75% of control T1) is not affected by halothane, but is prolonged by enflurane (15% longer) and isoflurane (62% longer). Reversal-induced recovery of rocuronium bromide neuromuscular block is minimally affected by anesthetic technique [see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )]. 7.4 Lithium Carbonate Lithium has been shown to increase the duration of neuromuscular block and decrease infusion requirements of neuromuscular blocking agents [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )]. 7.5 Local Anesthetics Local anesthetics have been shown to increase the duration of neuromuscular block and decrease infusion requirements of neuromuscular blocking agents [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )]. 7.6 Magnesium Magnesium salts administered for the management of toxemia of pregnancy may enhance neuromuscular blockade [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )]. 7.8 Procainamide Procainamide has been shown to increase the duration of neuromuscular block and decrease infusion requirements of neuromuscular blocking agents [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )]. This possibility must also be considered for rocuronium bromide [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )]. The median duration of action of rocuronium bromide 0.6 mg/kg administered after a 1 mg/kg dose of succinylcholine when T1 returned to 75% of control was 36 minutes (range: 14 to 57, n=12) vs. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Succinylcholine: Use before succinylcholine has not been studied. (7.11) Nondepolarizing muscle relaxants: Interactions have been observed. (7.7) Enhanced Rocuronium Bromide Injection activity possible: Inhalation anesthetics (7.3), certain antibiotics (7.1), quinidine (7.10), magnesium (7.6), lithium (7.4), local anesthetics (7.5), procainamide (7.8) Reduced rocuronium bromide activity possible: Anticonvulsants. (7.2) 7.1 Antibiotics Drugs which may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of nondepolarizing agents such as rocuronium bromide include certain antibiotics (e.g., aminoglycosides; vancomycin; tetracyclines; bacitracin; polymyxins; colistin; and sodium colistimethate). While the mechanism for development of this resistance is not known, receptor up-regulation may be a contributing factor [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. The duration of maintenance doses was affected to a greater extent, increasing by 30 to 50% under either enflurane or isoflurane anesthesia. The median spontaneous recovery time (from 25 to 75% of control T 1 ) is not affected by halothane, but is prolonged by enflurane (15% longer) and isoflurane (62% longer). Reversal-induced recovery of rocuronium bromide neuromuscular block is minimally affected by anesthetic technique [ see Dosage and Administration (2.6) and Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. 7.4 Lithium Carbonate Lithium has been shown to increase the duration of neuromuscular block and decrease infusion requirements of neuromuscular blocking agents [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. 7.5 Local Anesthetics Local anesthetics have been shown to increase the duration of neuromuscular block and decrease infusion requirements of neuromuscular blocking agents [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. 7.6 Magnesium Magnesium salts administered for the management of toxemia of pregnancy may enhance neuromuscular blockade [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. 7.8 Procainamide Procainamide has been shown to increase the duration of neuromuscular block and decrease infusion requirements of neuromuscular blocking agents [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. This possibility must also be considered for rocuronium bromide [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. The median duration of action of rocuronium bromide 0.6 mg/kg administered after a 1 mg/kg dose of succinylcholine when T 1 returned to 75% of control was 36 minutes (range: 14-57, n=12) vs. 28 minutes (range: 17-51, n=12) without succinylcholine. (7.11) Nondepolarizing muscle relaxants : Interactions have been observed. (7.7) Enhanced rocuronium bromide injection activity possible : Inhalation anesthetics (7.3), certain antibiotics (7.1), quinidine (7.10), magnesium (7.6), lithium (7.4), local anesthetics (7.5), procainamide (7.8) Reduced rocuronium bromide injection activity possible : Anticonvulsants. (7.2) 7.1 Antibiotics Drugs which may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of nondepolarizing agents such as rocuronium bromide injection include certain antibiotics (e.g., aminoglycosides; vancomycin; tetracyclines; bacitracin; polymyxins; colistin; and sodium colistimethate). If these antibiotics are used in conjunction with rocuronium bromide injection, prolongation of neuromuscular block may occur. 7.2 Anticonvulsants In 2 of 4 patients receiving chronic anticonvulsant therapy, apparent resistance to the effects of rocuronium bromide injection was observed in the form of diminished magnitude of neuromuscular block, or shortened clinical duration. As with other nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking drugs, if rocuronium bromide injection is administered to patients chronically receiving anticonvulsant agents such as carbamazepine or phenytoin, shorter durations of neuromuscular block may occur and infusion rates may be higher due to the development of resistance to nondepolarizing muscle relaxants. While the mechanism for development of this resistance is not known, receptor up-regulation may be a contributing factor [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] . Isoflurane and enflurane may also prolong the duration of action of initial and maintenance doses of rocuronium bromide injection and decrease the average infusion requirement of rocuronium bromide injection by 40% compared to opioid/nitrous oxide/oxygen anesthesia. No definite interaction between rocuronium bromide injection and halothane has been demonstrated. The clinical duration of initial doses of rocuronium bromide injection of 0.57 to 0.85 mg/kg under enflurane or isoflurane anesthesia, as used clinically, was increased by 11% and 23%, respectively. Potentiation by these agents is also observed with respect to the infusion rates of rocuronium bromide injection required to maintain approximately 95% neuromuscular block. Reversal-induced recovery of rocuronium bromide injection neuromuscular block is minimally affected by anesthetic technique [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) and Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] . 7.4 Lithium Carbonate Lithium has been shown to increase the duration of neuromuscular block and decrease infusion requirements of neuromuscular blocking agents [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] . 7.5 Local Anesthetics Local anesthetics have been shown to increase the duration of neuromuscular block and decrease infusion requirements of neuromuscular blocking agents [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] . 7.6 Magnesium Magnesium salts administered for the management of toxemia of pregnancy may enhance neuromuscular blockade [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] . 7.7 Nondepolarizing Muscle Relaxants There are no controlled studies documenting the use of rocuronium bromide injection before or after other nondepolarizing muscle relaxants. 7.8 Procainamide Procainamide has been shown to increase the duration of neuromuscular block and decrease infusion requirements of neuromuscular blocking agents [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] . 7.9 Propofol The use of propofol for induction and maintenance of anesthesia does not alter the clinical duration or recovery characteristics following recommended doses of rocuronium bromide injection. This possibility must also be considered for rocuronium bromide injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] . 7.11 Succinylcholine The use of rocuronium bromide injection before succinylcholine, for the purpose of attenuating some of the side effects of succinylcholine, has not been studied. If rocuronium bromide injection is administered following administration of succinylcholine, it should not be given until recovery from succinylcholine has been observed. The median duration of action of rocuronium bromide injection 0.6 mg/kg administered after a 1 mg/kg dose of succinylcholine when T 1 returned to 75% of control was 36 minutes (range: 14-57, n=12) vs. (7.7) Enhanced rocuronium bromide activity possible : Inhalation anesthetics (7.3) , certain antibiotics (7.1) , quinidine (7.10) , magnesium (7.6) , lithium (7.4) , local anesthetics (7.5) , procainamide (7.8) Reduced rocuronium bromide activity possible : Anticonvulsants. Reversal-induced recovery of rocuronium bromide neuromuscular block is minimally affected by anesthetic technique [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) and Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] . This possibility must also be considered for rocuronium bromide [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. The median duration of action of rocuronium bromide 0.6 mg/kg administered after a 1 mg/kg dose of succinylcholine when T 1 returned to 75% of control was 36 minutes (range: 14 to 57, n = 12) vs. 28 minutes (range: 17 to 51, n = 12) without succinylcholine. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Succinylcholine: Use before succinylcholine has not been studied ( 7.11 ) Nondepolarizing muscle relaxants: Interactions have been observed ( 7.7 ) Enhanced rocuronium bromide activity possible: Inhalation anesthetics ( 7.3 ), certain antibiotics ( 7.1 ), quinidine ( 7.10 ), magnesium ( 7.6 ), lithium ( 7.4 ), local anesthetics ( 7.5 ), procainamide ( 7.8 ) Reduced rocuronium bromide activity possible: Anticonvulsants ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Antibiotics Drugs which may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of nondepolarizing agents such as rocuronium bromide include certain antibiotics (e.g., aminoglycosides; vancomycin; tetracyclines; bacitracin; polymyxins; colistin; and sodium colistimethate). Reversal-induced recovery of rocuronium bromide neuromuscular block is minimally affected by anesthetic technique [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) and Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. The median duration of action of rocuronium bromide 0.6 mg/kg administered after a 1 mg/kg dose of succinylcholine when T 1 returned to 75% of control was 36 minutes (range 14 to 57, n=12) vs. ( 7.11 ) Nondepolarizing muscle relaxants: Interactions have been observed. ( 7.7 ) Enhanced Rocuronium Bromide activity possible: Inhalation anesthetics ( 7.3 ), certain antibiotics ( 7.1 ), quinidine ( 7.10 ), magnesium ( 7.6 ), lithium ( 7.4 ), local anesthetics ( 7.5 ), procainamide ( 7.8 ) Reduced Rocuronium Bromide activity possible: Anticonvulsants. While the mechanism for development of this resistance is not known, receptor up-regulation may be a contributing factor [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . Reversal-induced recovery of Rocuronium Bromide neuromuscular block is minimally affected by anesthetic technique [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . 7.4 Lithium Carbonate Lithium has been shown to increase the duration of neuromuscular block and decrease infusion requirements of neuromuscular blocking agents [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . 7.5 Local Anesthetics Local anesthetics have been shown to increase the duration of neuromuscular block and decrease infusion requirements of neuromuscular blocking agents [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . 7.6 Magnesium Magnesium salts administered for the management of toxemia of pregnancy may enhance neuromuscular blockade [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . 7.8 Procainamide Procainamide has been shown to increase the duration of neuromuscular block and decrease infusion requirements of neuromuscular blocking agents [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . This possibility must also be considered for Rocuronium Bromide [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . The median duration of action of Rocuronium Bromide 0.6 mg/kg administered after a 1 mg/kg dose of succinylcholine when T 1 returned to 75% of control was 36 minutes (range: 14–57, n=12) vs. 28 minutes (range: 17–51, n=12) without succinylcholine. ( 7.7 ) Enhanced Rocuronium Bromide Injection activity possible: Inhalation anesthetics ( 7.3 ), certain antibiotics ( 7.1 ), quinidine ( 7.10 ), magnesium ( 7.6 ), lithium ( 7.4 ), local anesthetics ( 7.5 ), procainamide. ( 7.8 ) Reduced Rocuronium Bromide Injection activity possible: Anticonvulsants. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Antibiotics Drugs which may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of nondepolarizing agents such as Rocuronium Bromide Injection include certain antibiotics (e.g., aminoglycosides; vancomycin; tetracyclines; bacitracin; polymyxins; colistin; and sodium colistimethate). 7.6 Magnesium Magnesium salts administered for the management of toxemia of pregnancy may enhance neuromuscular blockade [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 ) ]. This possibility must also be considered for Rocuronium Bromide Injection [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 ) ]. The median duration of action of Rocuronium Bromide Injection 0.6 mg/kg administered after a 1 mg/kg dose of succinylcholine when T 1 returned to 75% of control was 36 minutes (range: 14 to 57, n=12) vs. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Succinylcholine: Use before succinylcholine has not been studied. ( 7.11 ) • Nondepolarizing muscle relaxants: Interactions have been observed. ( 7.7 ) • Enhanced rocuronium bromide injection activity possible: Inhalation anesthetics ( 7.3 ), certain antibiotics ( 7.1 ), quinidine ( 7.10 ), magnesium ( 7.6 ), lithium ( 7.4 ), local anesthetics ( 7.5 ), procainamide ( 7.8 ) • Reduced rocuronium bromide injection activity possible: Anticonvulsants. While the mechanism for development of this resistance is not known, receptor up-regulation may be a contributing factor [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. 7.4 Lithium Carbonate Lithium has been shown to increase the duration of neuromuscular block and decrease infusion requirements of neuromuscular blocking agents [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. 7.5 Local Anesthetics Local anesthetics have been shown to increase the duration of neuromuscular block and decrease infusion requirements of neuromuscular blocking agents [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. 7.6 Magnesium Magnesium salts administered for the management of toxemia of pregnancy may enhance neuromuscular blockade [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. 7.8 Procainamide Procainamide has been shown to increase the duration of neuromuscular block and decrease infusion requirements of neuromuscular blocking agents [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. This possibility must also be considered for rocuronium bromide [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. 28 minutes (range:17 to 51, n=12) without succinylcholine.

=== VALACYCLOVIR ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Valacyclovir hydrochloride is a deoxynucleoside analogue DNA polymerase inhibitor indicated for: Adult Patients ( 1.1 ) Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Genital Herpes Treatment in immunocompetent patients (initial or recurrent episode) Suppression in immunocompetent or HIV-1-infected patients Reduction of transmission Herpes Zoster Pediatric Patients (1.2) Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Chickenpox Limitations of Use (1.3) The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets have not been established in immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV-1-infected patients. 1.1 Adult Patients Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for treatment of cold sores (herpes labialis). The efficacy of valacyclovir tablets initiated after the development of clinical signs of a cold sore (e.g., papule, vesicle, or ulcer) has not been established. Genital Herpes Initial Episode: Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for treatment of the initial episode of genital herpes in immunocompetent adults. The efficacy of treatment with valacyclovir tablets when initiated more than 72 hours after the onset of signs and symptoms has not been established. Recurrent Episodes: Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for treatment of recurrent episodes of genital herpes in immunocompetent adults. The efficacy of treatment with valacyclovir tablets when initiated more than 24 hours after the onset of signs and symptoms has not been established. Suppressive Therapy: Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for chronic suppressive therapy of recurrent episodes of genital herpes in immunocompetent and in HIV-1-infected adults. The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets for the suppression of genital herpes beyond 1 year in immunocompetent patients and beyond 6 months in HIV-1-infected patients have not been established. Reduction of Transmission: Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for the reduction of transmission of genital herpes in immunocompetent adults. The efficacy of valacyclovir tablets for the reduction of transmission of genital herpes beyond 8 months in discordant couples has not been established. The efficacy of valacyclovir tablets for the reduction of transmission of genital herpes in individuals with multiple partners and non-heterosexual couples has not been established. Safer sex practices should be used with suppressive therapy (see current Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [CDC] Sexually Transmitted Diseases Treatment Guidelines ). Herpes Zoster Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for the treatment of herpes zoster (shingles) in immunocompetent adults. The efficacy of valacyclovir tablets when initiated more than 72 hours after the onset of rash and the efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of disseminated herpes zoster have not been established. 1.2 Pediatric Patients Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for the treatment of cold sores (herpes labialis) in pediatric patients aged greater than or equal to 12 years. Chickenpox Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for the treatment of chickenpox in immunocompetent pediatric patients aged 2 to less than 18 years. Based on efficacy data from clinical trials with oral acyclovir, treatment with valacyclovir tablets should be initiated within 24 hours after the onset of rash [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . 1.3 Limitations of Use The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets have not been established in: Immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV-1-infected patients with a CD4+ cell count greater than or equal to 100 cells/mm 3 . Patients aged less than 12 years with cold sores (herpes labialis). Patients aged less than 2 years or greater than or equal to 18 years with chickenpox. Patients aged less than 18 years with genital herpes. Patients aged less than 18 years with herpes zoster. Neonates and infants as suppressive therapy following neonatal herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Valacyclovir hydrochloride is a deoxynucleoside analogue DNA polymerase inhibitor indicated for: Adult Patients (1.1) Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Genital Herpes Treatment in immunocompetent patients (initial or recurrent episode) Suppression in immunocompetent or HIV-1-infected patients Reduction of transmission Herpes Zoster Pediatric Patients (1.2) Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Chickenpox Limitations of Use (1.3) The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets have not been established in immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV-1-infected patients. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Valacyclovir tablets are a deoxynucleoside analogue DNA polymerase inhibitor indicated for: Adult Patients ( 1.1 ) Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Genital Herpes Treatment in immunocompetent patients (initial or recurrent episode) Suppression in immunocompetent or HIV-1-infected patients Reduction of transmission Herpes Zoster Pediatric Patients ( 1.2 ) Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Chickenpox Limitations of Use ( 1.3 ) The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets have not been established in immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV-1-infected patients. Safer sex practices should be used with suppressive therapy (see current Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [CDC] Sexually Transmitted Diseases Treatment Guidelines). Based on efficacy data from clinical trials with oral acyclovir, treatment with valacyclovir tablets should be initiated within 24 hours after the onset of rash [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Valacyclovir tablet is a deoxynucleoside analogue DNA polymerase inhibitor indicated for: Adult Patients ( 1.1 ) • Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) • Genital Herpes • Treatment in immunocompetent patients (initial or recurrent episode) • Suppression in immunocompetent or HIV-1-infected patients • Reduction of transmission • Herpes Zoster Pediatric Patients ( 1.2 ) • Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) • Chickenpox Limitations of Use ( 1.3 ) The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets have not been established in immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV-1-infected patients. Based on efficacy data from clinical trials with oral acyclovir, treatment with valacyclovir tablets should be initiated within 24 hours after the onset of rash [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )]. 1.3 Limitations of Use The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets have not been established in: • Immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV-1−infected patients with a CD4+ cell count greater than or equal to 100 cells/mm 3 . • Patients aged less than 12 years with cold sores (herpes labialis). • Patients aged less than 2 years or greater than or equal to 18 years with chickenpox. • Patients aged less than 18 years with genital herpes. • Patients aged less than 18 years with herpes zoster. • Neonates and infants as suppressive therapy following neonatal herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Valacyclovir tablets are a deoxynucleoside analogue DNA polymerase inhibitor indicated for: Adult Patients ( 1.1 ) Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Genital Herpes Treatment in immunocompetent patients (initial or recurrent episode) Suppression in immunocompetent or HIV-1–infected patients Reduction of transmission Herpes Zoster Pediatric Patients ( 1.2 ) Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Chickenpox Limitations of Use ( 1.3 ) The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets have not been established in immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV-1–infected patients. Genital Herpes Initial Episode Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for treatment of the initial episode of genital herpes in immunocompetent adults. Recurrent Episodes Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for treatment of recurrent episodes of genital herpes in immunocompetent adults. Suppressive Therapy Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for chronic suppressive therapy of recurrent episodes of genital herpes in immunocompetent and in HIV-1–infected adults. The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets for the suppression of genital herpes beyond 1 year in immunocompetent patients and beyond 6 months in HIV-1–infected patients have not been established. Reduction of Transmission Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for the reduction of transmission of genital herpes in immunocompetent adults. Chickenpox Valacyclovir is indicated for the treatment of chickenpox in immunocompetent pediatric patients aged 2 to less than 18 years. Based on efficacy data from clinical trials with oral acyclovir, treatment with valacyclovir should be initiated within 24 hours after the onset of rash [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ]. 1.3 Limitations of Use The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir have not been established in: Immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV-1–infected patients with a CD4+ cell count greater than or equal to 100 cells/mm 3 . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Valacyclovir hydrochloride is a deoxynucleoside analogue DNA polymerase inhibitor indicated for: Adult Patients (1.1) Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Genital Herpes Treatment in immunocompetent patients (initial or recurrent episode) Suppression in immunocompetent or HIV-infected patients Reduction of transmission Herpes Zoster Pediatric Patients (1.2) Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Chickenpox Limitations of Use (1.3) The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets have not been established in immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV-infected patients. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Valacyclovir tablets are a deoxynucleoside analogue DNA polymerase inhibitor indicated for: Adult Patients ( 1.1 ) Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Genital Herpes Treatment in immunocompetent patients (initial or recurrent episode) Suppression in immunocompetent or HIV-1-infected patients Reduction of transmission Herpes Zoster Pediatric Patients ( 1.2 ) Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) Chickenpox Limitations of Use ( 1.3 ) The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets have not been established in immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV‑1-infected patients. Suppressive Therapy: Valacyclovir tablets are indicated for chronic suppressive therapy of recurrent episodes of genital herpes in immunocompetent and in HIV‑1-infected adults. The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets, USP for the suppression of genital herpes beyond 1 year in immunocompetent patients and beyond 6 months in HIV‑1-infected patients have not been established. The efficacy of valacyclovir tablets for the reduction of transmission of genital herpes in individuals with multiple partners and non‑heterosexual couples has not been established. The efficacy of valacyclovir tablets, USP when initiated more than 72 hours after the onset of rash and the efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets, USP for treatment of disseminated herpes zoster have not been established. 1.3 Limitations of Use The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets have not been established in: Immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV‑1-infected patients with a CD4+ cell count greater than or equal to 100 cells/mm 3 . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Valacyclovir hydrochloride is a nucleoside analogue DNA polymerase inhibitor indicated for: Adult Patients (1.1) • Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) • Genital Herpes • Treatment in immunocompetent patients (initial or recurrent episode) • Suppression in immunocompetent or HIV-infected patients • Reduction of transmission • Herpes Zoster Pediatric Patients (1.2) • Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) • Chickenpox Limitations of Use (1.3) • The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets, USP have not been established in immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV-infected patients. 1.1 Adult Patients Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis): Valacyclovir tablets, USP are indicated for treatment of cold sores (herpes labialis). The efficacy of valacyclovir tablets, USP initiated after the development of clinical signs of a cold sore (e.g., papule, vesicle, or ulcer) has not been established. Genital Herpes: Initial Episode: Valacyclovir tablets, USP are indicated for treatment of the initial episode of genital herpes in immunocompetent adults. The efficacy of treatment with valacyclovir tablets, USP when initiated more than 72 hours after the onset of signs and symptoms has not been established. Recurrent Episodes: Valacyclovir tablets, USP are indicated for treatment of recurrent episodes of genital herpes in immunocompetent adults. The efficacy of treatment with valacyclovir tablets, USP when initiated more than 24 hours after the onset of signs and symptoms has not been established. Suppressive Therapy: Valacyclovir tablets, USP are indicated for chronic suppressive therapy of recurrent episodes of genital herpes in immunocompetent and in HIV-infected adults. The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets, USP for the suppression of genital herpes beyond 1 year in immunocompetent patients and beyond 6 months in HIV-infected patients have not been established. Reduction of Transmission: Valacyclovir tablets, USP are indicated for the reduction of transmission of genital herpes in immunocompetent adults. The efficacy of valacyclovir tablets, USP for the reduction of transmission of genital herpes beyond 8 months in discordant couples has not been established. The efficacy of valacyclovir tablets, USP for the reduction of transmission of genital herpes in individuals with multiple partners and non-heterosexual couples has not been established. Herpes Zoster: Valacyclovir tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of herpes zoster (shingles) in immunocompetent adults. 1.2 Pediatric Patients Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis): Valacyclovir tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of cold sores (herpes labialis) in pediatric patients ≥12 years of age. Chickenpox: Valacyclovir tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of chickenpox in immunocompetent pediatric patients 2 to <18 years of age. Based on efficacy data from clinical studies with oral acyclovir, treatment with valacyclovir tablets, USP should be initiated within 24 hours after the onset of rash [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . 1.3 Limitations of Use The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets, USP have not been established in: • Immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV-infected patients with a CD4+ cell count ≥100 cells/mm 3 . • Patients <12 years of age with cold sores (herpes labialis). • Patients <2 years of age or ≥18 years of age with chickenpox. • Patients <18 years of age with genital herpes. • Patients <18 years of age with herpes zoster. Based on efficacy data from clinical trials with oral acyclovir, treatment with valacyclovir tablets should be initiated within 24 hours after the onset of rash [see Clinical Studies (14.4)]. 1.3 Limitations of Use The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir tablets have not been established in: Immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV-1-infected patients with a CD4+ cell count greater than or equal to 100 cells/mm3.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Valacyclovir tablets may be given without regard to meals. Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) may be prepared extemporaneously from 500 mg valacyclovir tablets for use in pediatric patients for whom a solid dosage form is not appropriate [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . Adult Dosage (2.1) Cold Sores 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Genital Herpes Initial episode 1 gram twice daily for 10 days Recurrent episodes 500 mg twice daily for 3 days Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients Alternate dose in patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year HIV-1-infected patients 1 gram once daily 500 mg once daily 500 mg twice daily Reduction of transmission 500 mg once daily Herpes Zoster 1 gram 3 times daily for 7 days Pediatric Dosage (2.2) Cold Sores (aged greater than or equal to 12 years) 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Chickenpox (aged 2 to less than 18 years) 20 mg/kg 3 times daily for 5 days; not to exceed 1 gram 3 times daily Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) can be prepared from the 500 mg valacyclovir tablets. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Adult Dosing Recommendations Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of cold sores is 2 grams twice daily for 1 day taken 12 hours apart. Therapy should be initiated at the earliest symptom of a cold sore (e.g., tingling, itching, or burning). Genital Herpes Initial Episode: The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of initial genital herpes is 1 gram twice daily for 10 days. Therapy was most effective when administered within 48 hours of the onset of signs and symptoms. Recurrent Episodes: The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of recurrent genital herpes is 500 mg twice daily for 3 days. Initiate treatment at the first sign or symptom of an episode. Suppressive Therapy: The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for chronic suppressive therapy of recurrent genital herpes is 1 gram once daily in patients with normal immune function. In patients with a history of 9 or fewer recurrences per year, an alternative dose is 500 mg once daily. In HIV-1-infected patients with a CD4+ cell count greater than or equal to 100 cells/mm 3 , the recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for chronic suppressive therapy of recurrent genital herpes is 500 mg twice daily. Reduction of Transmission: The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for reduction of transmission of genital herpes in patients with a history of 9 or fewer recurrences per year is 500 mg once daily for the source partner. Herpes Zoster The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of herpes zoster is 1 gram 3 times daily for 7 days. Therapy should be initiated at the earliest sign or symptom of herpes zoster and is most effective when started within 48 hours of the onset of rash. 2.2 Pediatric Dosing Recommendations Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for the treatment of cold sores in pediatric patients aged greater than or equal to 12 years is 2 grams twice daily for 1 day taken 12 hours apart. Chickenpox The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of chickenpox in immunocompetent pediatric patients aged 2 to less than 18 years is 20 mg/kg administered 3 times daily for 5 days. The total dose should not exceed 1 gram 3 times daily. Therapy should be initiated at the earliest sign or symptom [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . 2.3 Extemporaneous Preparation of Oral Suspension Ingredients and Preparation per USP-NF Valacyclovir tablets 500 mg, cherry flavor, and Suspension Structured Vehicle USP-NF (SSV). Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) should be prepared in lots of 100 mL. Instructions for Preparing Suspension at Time of Dispensing Prepare SSV according to the USP-NF. Using a pestle and mortar, grind the required number of valacyclovir 500 mg tablets until a fine powder is produced (5 valacyclovir tablets for 25 mg/mL suspension; 10 valacyclovir tablets for 50 mg/mL suspension). Gradually add approximately 5 mL aliquots of SSV to the mortar and triturate the powder until a paste has been produced. Ensure that the powder has been adequately wetted. Continue to add approximately 5 mL aliquots of SSV to the mortar, mixing thoroughly between additions, until a concentrated suspension is produced, to a minimum total quantity of 20 mL SSV and a maximum total quantity of 40 mL SSV for both the 25 mg/mL and 50 mg/mL suspensions. Transfer the mixture to a suitable 100 mL measuring flask. Transfer the cherry flavor* to the mortar and dissolve in approximately 5 mL of SSV. Once dissolved, add to the measuring flask. Rinse the mortar at least 3 times with approximately 5 mL aliquots of SSV, transferring the rinsing to the measuring flask between additions. Make the suspension to volume (100 mL) with SSV and shake thoroughly to mix. Transfer the suspension to an amber glass medicine bottle with a child-resistant closure. The prepared suspension should be labeled with the following information “Shake well before using. Store suspension between 2° to 8°C (36° to 46°F) in a refrigerator. Discard after 28 days.” *The amount of cherry flavor added is as instructed by the suppliers of the cherry flavor. 2.4 Patients with Renal Impairment Dosage recommendations for adult patients with reduced renal function are provided in Table 1 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5 , 8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Data are not available for the use of valacyclovir tablets in pediatric patients with a creatinine clearance less than 50 mL/min/1.73 m 2 . Table 1. Valacyclovir Tablets Dosage Recommendations for Adults with Renal Impairment Indications Normal Dosage Regimen (Creatinine Clearance ≥50 mL/min) Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) 30 to 49 10 to 29 <10 Cold sores (Herpes Labialis) Do not exceed 1 day of treatment. Two 2 gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 1 gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 500 mg doses taken 12 hours apart 500 mg single dose Genital herpes: Initial episode 1 gram every 12 hours no reduction 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Recurrent episode 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients Alternate dose for immunocompetent patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year HIV-1-infected patients 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction no reduction no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 48 hours 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 48 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Herpes zoster 1 gram every 8 hours 1 gram every 12 hours 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Hemodialysis Patients requiring hemodialysis should receive the recommended dose of valacyclovir tablets after hemodialysis. During hemodialysis, the half-life of acyclovir after administration of valacyclovir tablets is approximately 4 hours. About one-third of acyclovir in the body is removed by dialysis during a 4-hour hemodialysis session. Peritoneal Dialysis There is no information specific to administration of valacyclovir tablets in patients receiving peritoneal dialysis. The effect of chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) and continuous arteriovenous hemofiltration/dialysis (CAVHD) on acyclovir pharmacokinetics has been studied. The removal of acyclovir after CAPD and CAVHD is less pronounced than with hemodialysis, and the pharmacokinetic parameters closely resemble those observed in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) not receiving hemodialysis. Therefore, supplemental doses of valacyclovir tablets should not be required following CAPD or CAVHD. Adult Dosage ( 2.1 ) Cold Sores 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Genital Herpes Initial episode 1 gram twice daily for 10 days Recurrent episodes 500 mg twice daily for 3 days Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients Alternate dose in patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year HIV‑1-infected patients 1 gram once daily 500 mg once daily 500 mg twice daily Reduction of transmission 500 mg once daily Herpes Zoster 1 gram 3 times daily for 7 days Pediatric Dosage ( 2.2 ) Cold Sores (aged greater than or equal to 12 years) 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Chickenpox (aged 2 to less than 18 years) 20 mg/kg 3 times daily for 5 days; not to exceed 1 gram 3 times daily Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) can be prepared from the 500 mg valacyclovir tablets. Two 2 gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 1 gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 500 mg doses taken 12 hours apart 500 mg single dose Genital herpes: Initial episode 1 gram every 12 hours no reduction 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Recurrent episode 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients 1 gram every 24 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Alternate dose for immunocompetent patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year 500 mg every 24 hours no reduction 500 mg every 48 hours 500 mg every 48 hours HIV-1-infected patients 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Herpes zoster 1 gram every 8 hours 1 gram every 12 hours 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Hemodialysis Patients requiring hemodialysis should receive the recommended dose of valacyclovir tablets after hemodialysis. Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) may be prepared extemporaneously from the 500-mg valacyclovir tablets for use in pediatric patients for whom a solid dosage form is not appropriate [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. Adult Dosage ( 2.1 ) Cold Sores 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Genital Herpes Initial episode 1 gram twice daily for 10 days Recurrent episodes 500 mg twice daily for 3 days Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients 1 gram once daily Alternate dose in patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year 500 mg once daily HIV-1-infected patients 500 mg twice daily Reduction of transmission 500 mg once daily Herpes Zoster 1 gram 3 times daily for 7 days Pediatric Dosage ( 2.2 ) Cold Sores (aged greater than or equal to 12 years) 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Chickenpox (aged 2 to less than 18 years) 20 mg/kg 3 times daily for 5 days; not to exceed 1 gram 3 times daily Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) can be prepared from the Valacyclovir Tablets, USP 500 mg. Therapy should be initiated at the earliest sign or symptom [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , Clinical Studies (14.4) ]. Using a pestle and mortar, grind the required number of valacyclovir tablets 500-mg until a fine powder is produced (5 valacyclovir tablets for 25-mg/mL suspension; 10 valacyclovir tablets for 50-mg/mL suspension). Gradually add approximately 5-mL aliquots of SSV to the mortar and triturate the powder until a paste has been produced. Continue to add approximately 5-mL aliquots of SSV to the mortar, mixing thoroughly between additions, until a concentrated suspension is produced, to a minimum total quantity of 20 mL SSV and a maximum total quantity of 40 mL SSV for both the 25-mg/mL and 50-mg/mL suspensions. Transfer the mixture to a suitable 100-mL measuring flask. Transfer the cherry flavor The amount of cherry flavor added is as instructed by the suppliers of the cherry flavor. to the mortar and dissolve in approximately 5 mL of SSV. Rinse the mortar at least 3 times with approximately 5-mL aliquots of SSV, transferring the rinsing to the measuring flask between additions. The prepared suspension should be labeled with the following information "Shake well before using. Discard after 28 days." 2.4 Patients with Renal Impairment Dosage recommendations for adult patients with reduced renal function are provided in Table 1 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5 , 8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Valacyclovir Tablets Dosage Recommendations for Adults with Renal Impairment Indications Normal Dosage Regimen (Creatinine Clearance ≥50 mL/min) Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) 30-49 10-29 <10 Cold sores (Herpes labialis ) Do not exceed 1 day of treatment. Two 2-gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 1-gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 500-mg doses taken 12 hours apart 500-mg single dose Genital herpes : Initial episode 1 gram every 12 hours no reduction 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes : Recurrent episode 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients 1 gram every 24 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Alternate dose for immunocompetent patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year 500 mg every 24 hours no reduction 500 mg every 48 hours 500 mg every 48 hours HIV-1-infected patients 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Herpes zoster 1 gram every 8 hours 1 gram every 12 hours 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Hemodialysis Patients requiring hemodialysis should receive the recommended dose of valacyclovir tablets after hemodialysis. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Valacyclovir tablets may be given without regard to meals. • Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) may be prepared extemporaneously from 500-mg valacyclovir tablets for use in pediatric patients for whom a solid dosage form is not appropriate [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )]. Adult Dosage ( 2.1 ) Cold Sores 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Genital Herpes Initial episode 1 gram twice daily for 10 days Recurrent episodes 500 mg twice daily for 3 days Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients 1 gram once daily Alternate dose in patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year 500 mg once daily HIV-1-infected patients 500 mg twice daily Reduction of transmission 500 mg once daily Herpes Zoster 1 gram 3 times daily for 7 days Pediatric Dosage ( 2.2 ) Cold Sores (aged greater than or equal to 12 years) 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Chickenpox (aged 2 to less than 18 years) 20 mg/kg 3 times daily for 5 days; not to exceed 1 gram 3 times daily Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) can be prepared from the 500 mg valacyclovir tablets. Therapy should be initiated at the earliest sign or symptom [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ), Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )]. Instructions for Preparing Suspension at Time of Dispensing • Prepare SSV according to the USP-NF. • Using a pestle and mortar, grind the required number of valacyclovir 500-mg tablets until a fine powder is produced (5 valacyclovir tablets for 25-mg/mL suspension; 10 valacyclovir tablets for 50-mg/mL suspension). • Gradually add approximately 5-mL aliquots of SSV to the mortar and triturate the powder until a paste has been produced. • Continue to add approximately 5-mL aliquots of SSV to the mortar, mixing thoroughly between additions, until a concentrated suspension is produced, to a minimum total quantity of 20 mL SSV and a maximum total quantity of 40 mL SSV for both the 25-mg/mL and 50-mg/mL suspensions. • Transfer the mixture to a suitable 100-mL measuring flask. • Transfer the cherry flavor* to the mortar and dissolve in approximately 5 mL of SSV. • Rinse the mortar at least 3 times with approximately 5-mL aliquots of SSV, transferring the rinsing to the measuring flask between additions. • Make the suspension to volume (100 mL) with SSV and shake thoroughly to mix. • Transfer the suspension to an amber glass medicine bottle with a child-resistant closure. • The prepared suspension should be labeled with the following information “Shake well before using. 2.4 Patients with Renal Impairment Dosage recommendations for adult patients with reduced renal function are provided in Table 1 [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 , 8.6 ), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Two 2-gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 1-gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 500-mg doses taken 12 hours apart 500-mg single dose Genital herpes: Initial episode 1 gram every 12 hours no reduction 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Recurrent episode 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients 1 gram every 24 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Alternate dose for immunocompetent patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year 500 mg every 24 hours no reduction 500 mg every 48 hours 500 mg every 48 hours HIV-1-infected patients 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Herpes zoster 1 gram every 8 hours 1 gram every 12 hours 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Hemodialysis Patients requiring hemodialysis should receive the recommended dose of valacyclovir tablets after hemodialysis. Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) may be prepared extemporaneously from 500-mg valacyclovir tablets for use in pediatric patients for whom a solid dosage form is not appropriate [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . Adult Dosage ( 2.1 ) Cold Sores 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Genital Herpes Initial episode 1 gram twice daily for 10 days Recurrent episodes 500 mg twice daily for 3 days Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients 1 gram once daily Alternate dose in patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year 500 mg once daily HIV-1–infected patients 500 mg twice daily Reduction of transmission 500 mg once daily Herpes Zoster 1 gram 3 times daily for 7 days Pediatric Dosage ( 2.2 ) Cold Sores (aged greater than or equal to 12 years) 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Chickenpox (aged 2 to less than 18 years) 20 mg/kg 3 times daily for 5 days; not to exceed 1 gram 3 times daily Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) can be prepared from the 500 mg valacyclovir tablets. Genital Herpes Initial Episode The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of initial genital herpes is 1 gram twice daily for 10 days. Recurrent Episodes The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of recurrent genital herpes is 500 mg twice daily for 3 days. Suppressive Therapy The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for chronic suppressive therapy of recurrent genital herpes is 1 gram once daily in patients with normal immune function. In HIV-1–infected patients with a CD4+ cell count greater than or equal to 100 cells/mm 3 , the recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for chronic suppressive therapy of recurrent genital herpes is 500 mg twice daily. Reduction of Transmission The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for reduction of transmission of genital herpes in patients with a history of 9 or fewer recurrences per year is 500 mg once daily for the source partner. Chickenpox The recommended dosage of valacyclovir for treatment of chickenpox in immunocompetent pediatric patients aged 2 to less than 18 years is 20 mg/kg administered 3 times daily for 5 days. Using a pestle and mortar, grind the required number of valacyclovir 500-mg tablets until a fine powder is produced (5 valacyclovir tablets for 25-mg/mL suspension; 10 valacyclovir tablets for 50-mg/mL suspension). Continue to add approximately 5-mL aliquots of SSV to the mortar, mixing thoroughly between additions, until a concentrated suspension is produced, to a minimum total quantity of 20 mL SSV and a maximum total quantity of 40 mL SSV for both the 25-mg/mL and 50- mg/mL suspensions. Data are not available for the use of valacyclovir in pediatric patients with a creatinine clearance less than 50 mL/min/1.73 m 2 . Valacyclovir Tablets Dosage Recommendations for Adults with Renal Impairment Indications Normal Dosage Regimen (Creatinine Clearance ≥ 50 mL/min) Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) 30-49 10-29 < 10 Cold sores (Herpes Labialis) Do not exceed 1 day of treatment. Two 2-gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 1-gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 500-mg doses taken 12 hours apart 500-mg single dose Genital herpes: Initial episode 1 gram every 12 hours no reduction 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Recurrent episode 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients 1 gram every 24 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Alternate dose for immunocompetent patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year 500 mg every 24 hours no reduction 500 mg every 48 hours 500 mg every 48 hours HIV-1–infected patients 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Herpes zoster 1 gram every 8 hours 1 gram every 12 hours 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Hemodialysis Patients requiring hemodialysis should receive the recommended dose of valacyclovir tablets after hemodialysis. Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) may be prepared extemporaneously from 500 mg valacyclovir tablets for use in pediatric patients for whom a solid dosage form is not appropriate [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. Adult Dosage (2.1) Cold Sores 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Genital Herpes Initial episode 1 gram twice daily for 10 days Recurrent episodes 500 mg twice daily for 3 days Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients 1 gram once daily Alternate dose in patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year 500 mg once daily HIV-1-infected patients 500 mg twice daily Reduction of transmission 500 mg once daily Herpes Zoster 1 gram 3 times daily for 7 days Pediatric Dosage (2.2) Cold Sores (aged greater than or equal to 12 years) 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Chickenpox (aged 2 to less than 18 years) 20 mg/kg 3 times daily for 5 days; not to exceed 1 gram 3 times daily Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) can be prepared from the 500 mg valacyclovir tablets. (2.3) 2.1 Adult Dosing Recommendations Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of cold sores is 2 grams twice daily for 1 day taken 12 hours apart. Chickenpox The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of chickenpox in immunocompetent pediatric patients aged 2 to less than18 years is 20 mg/kg administered 3 times daily for 5 days. Instructions for Preparing Suspension at Time of Dispensing: Prepare SSV according to the USP-NF. 2.4 Patients with Renal Impairment Dosage recommendations for adult patients with reduced renal function are provided in Table 1 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5 , 8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. About one third of acyclovir in the body is removed by dialysis during a 4-hour hemodialysis session. Adult Dosage ( 2.1 ) Cold Sores 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Genital Herpes Initial episode 1 gram twice daily for 10 days Recurrent episodes 500 mg twice daily for 3 days Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients 1 gram once daily Alternate dose in patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year 500 mg once daily HIV‑1-infected patients 500 mg twice daily Reduction of transmission 500 mg once daily Herpes Zoster 1 gram 3 times daily for 7 days Pediatric Dosage ( 2.2 ) Cold Sores (aged greater than or equal to 12 years) 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Chickenpox (aged 2 to less than 18 years) 20 mg/kg 3 times daily for 5 days; not to exceed 1 gram 3 times daily Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) can be prepared from the 500 mg valacyclovir tablets. In HIV‑1-infected patients with a CD4 + cell count greater than or equal to 100 cells/mm 3 , the recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for chronic suppressive therapy of recurrent genital herpes is 500 mg twice daily. Using a pestle and mortar, grind the required number of valacyclovir tablets 500 mg until a fine powder is produced (5 valacyclovir tablets for 25 mg/mL suspension; 10 valacyclovir tablets for 50 mg/mL suspension). Store suspension between 2°C to 8° C (36°F to 46° F) in a refrigerator. Valacyclovir Tablets Dosage Recommendations for Adults with Renal Impairment Indications Normal Dosage Regimen (Creatinine Clearance ≥ 50 mL/min) Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) 30 to 49 10 to 29 < 10 Cold sores (Herpes Labialis) Do not exceed 1 day of treatment. Two 2-gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 1-gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 500-mg doses taken 12 hours apart 500-mg single dose Genital herpes: Initial episode 1 gram every 12 hours no reduction 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Recurrent episode 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients 1 gram every 24 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Alternate dose for immunocompetent patients with less than or equal to 9 recurrences/year 500 mg every 24 hours no reduction 500 mg every 48 hours 500 mg every 48 hours HIV‑1-infected patients 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Herpes zoster 1 gram every 8 hours 1 gram every 12 hours 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Hemodialysis Patients requiring hemodialysis should receive the recommended dose of valacyclovir tablets after hemodialysis. During hemodialysis, the half‑life of acyclovir after administration of valacyclovir tablets is approximately 4 hours. About one third of acyclovir in the body is removed by dialysis during a 4‑hour hemodialysis session. The removal of acyclovir after CAPD and CAVHD is less pronounced than with hemodialysis, and the pharmacokinetic parameters closely resemble those observed in patients with end‑stage renal disease (ESRD) not receiving hemodialysis. Adult Dosage (2.1) Cold Sores 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Genital Herpes Initial episode 1 gram twice daily for 10 days Recurrent episodes 500 mg twice daily for 3 days Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients Alternate dose in patients with ≤9 recurrences/yr HIV-infected patients 1 gram once daily 500 mg once daily 500 mg twice daily Reduction of transmission 500 mg once daily Herpes Zoster 1 gram 3 times daily for 7 days Pediatric Dosage (2.2) Cold Sores (≥12 years of age) 2 grams every 12 hours for 1 day Chickenpox (2 to <18 years of age) 20 mg/kg 3 times daily for 5 days not to exceed 1 gram 3 times daily Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) can be prepared from the 500 mg valacyclovir tablets. (2.3) 2.1 Adult Dosing Recommendations Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis): The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of cold sores is 2 grams twice daily for 1 day taken 12 hours apart. Genital Herpes: Initial Episode: The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of initial genital herpes is 1 gram twice daily for 10 days. In HIV-infected patients with a CD4+ cell count ≥100 cells/mm 3 , the recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for chronic suppressive therapy of recurrent genital herpes is 500 mg twice daily. Herpes Zoster: The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of herpes zoster is 1 gram 3 times daily for 7 days. 2.2 Pediatric Dosing Recommendations Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis): The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for the treatment of cold sores in pediatric patients ≥12 years of age is 2 grams twice daily for 1 day taken 12 hours apart. Chickenpox: The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of chickenpox in immunocompetent pediatric patients 2 to <18 years of age is 20 mg/kg administered 3 times daily for 5 days. 2.3 Extemporaneous Preparation of Oral Suspension Ingredients and Preparation per USP-NF: Valacyclovir tablets 500 mg, cherry flavor, and Suspension Structured Vehicle USP-NF (SSV). Prepare Suspension at Time of Dispensing as Follows: • Prepare SSV according to the USP-NF. • Using a pestle and mortar, grind the required number of valacyclovir 500 mg tablets until a fine powder is produced (5 valacyclovir tablets for 25 mg/mL suspension; 10 valacyclovir tablets for 50 mg/mL suspension). • Gradually add approximately 5 mL aliquots of SSV to the mortar and triturate the powder until a paste has been produced. • Continue to add approximately 5 mL aliquots of SSV to the mortar, mixing thoroughly between additions, until a concentrated suspension is produced, to a minimum total quantity of 20 mL SSV and a maximum total quantity of 40 mL SSV for both the 25 mg/mL and 50 mg/mL suspensions. • Transfer the mixture to a suitable 100 mL measuring flask. • Rinse the mortar at least 3 times with approximately 5 mL aliquots of SSV, transferring the rinsing to the measuring flask between additions. Data are not available for the use of valacyclovir tablets in pediatric patients with a creatinine clearance <50 mL/min/1.73 m 2 . Valacyclovir Tablets Dosage Recommendations for Adults With Renal Impairment Indications Normal Dosage Regimen (Creatinine Clearance ≥50 mL/min) Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) 30-49 10-29 <10 Cold sores (Herpes labialis) Do not exceed 1 day of treatment. Two 2 gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 1 gram doses taken 12 hours apart Two 500 mg doses taken 12 hours apart 500 mg single dose Genital herpes: Initial episode 1 gram every 12 hours no reduction 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Recurrent episode 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Genital herpes: Suppressive therapy Immunocompetent patients Alternate dose for immunocompetent patient with ≤9 recurrences/year HIV-infected patients 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 12 hours no reduction no reduction no reduction 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 48 hours 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours 500 mg every 48 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Herpes zoster 1 gram every 8 hours 1 gram every 12 hours 1 gram every 24 hours 500 mg every 24 hours Hemodialysis: Patients requiring hemodialysis should receive the recommended dose of valacyclovir tablets after hemodialysis. Peritoneal Dialysis: There is no information specific to administration of valacyclovir tablets in patients receiving peritoneal dialysis. Valacyclovir tablets may be given without regard to meals. Valacyclovir oral suspension (25 mg/mL or 50 mg/mL) may be prepared extemporaneously from the 500-mg valacyclovir tablets for use in pediatric patients for whom a solid dosage form is not appropriate [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)]. 2.1 Adult Dosing Recommendations Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) The recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for treatment of cold sores is 2 grams twice daily for 1 day taken 12 hours apart. In HIV-1-infected patients with a CD4+ cell count greater than or equal to 100 cells/mm3, the recommended dosage of valacyclovir tablets for chronic suppressive therapy of recurrent genital herpes is 500 mg twice daily. Therapy should be initiated at the earliest sign or symptom [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3), Clinical Studies (14.4)]. Transfer the cherry flavor1 to the mortar and dissolve in approximately 5 mL of SSV. Discard after 28 days." 1 The amount of cherry flavor added is as instructed by the suppliers of the cherry flavor. 2.4 Patients with Renal Impairment Dosage recommendations for adult patients with reduced renal function are provided in Table 1 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5, 8.6), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Data are not available for the use of valacyclovir tablets in pediatric patients with a creatinine clearance less than 50 mL/min/1.73 m2.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Valacyclovir tablets are contraindicated in patients who have had a demonstrated clinically significant hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis) to valacyclovir, acyclovir, or any component of the formulation [see Adverse Reactions (6.3) ] . ­Hypersensitivity to valacyclovir (e.g., anaphylaxis), acyclovir, or any component of the formulation. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Valacyclovir tablets are contraindicated in patients who have had a demonstrated clinically significant hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis) to valacyclovir, acyclovir, or any component of the formulation [see Adverse Reactions (6.3) ]. Hypersensitivity to valacyclovir (e.g., anaphylaxis), acyclovir, or any component of the formulation. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Valacyclovir tablets are contraindicated in patients who have had a demonstrated clinically significant hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis) to valacyclovir, acyclovir, or any component of the formulation [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.3 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Valacyclovir hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients who have had a demonstrated clinically significant hypersensitivity reaction [e.g., anaphylaxis, severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs)] to valacyclovir, acyclovir, or any component of the formulation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) , Adverse Reactions (6.3) ] . ‑Hypersensitivity to valacyclovir (e.g., anaphylaxis), acyclovir, or any component of the formulation. Valacyclovir tablets are contraindicated in patients who have had a demonstrated clinically significant hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis) to valacyclovir, acyclovir, or any component of the formulation [see Adverse Reactions (6.3)].
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No clinically significant drug-drug or drug-food interactions with valacyclovir hydrochloride are known [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No clinically significant drug-drug or drug-food interactions with valacyclovir tablets are known [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No clinically significant drug-drug or drug-food interactions with valacyclovir are known [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No clinically significant drug-drug or drug-food interactions with valacyclovir hydrochloride are known [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. No clinically significant drug-drug or drug-food interactions with valacyclovir tablets are known [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)].

=== VORICONAZOLE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE VFEND is an azole antifungal indicated for the treatment of adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older with: • Invasive aspergillosis ( 1.1 ) • Candidemia in non-neutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections ( 1.2 ) • Esophageal candidiasis ( 1.3 ) • Serious fungal infections caused by Scedosporium apiospermum and Fusarium species including Fusarium solani , in patients intolerant of, or refractory to, other therapy ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Invasive Aspergillosis VFEND is indicated in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis (IA). In clinical trials, the majority of isolates recovered were Aspergillus fumigatus . There was a small number of cases of culture-proven disease due to species of Aspergillus other than A. fumigatus [see Clinical Studies (14.1 , 14.5) and Microbiology (12.4) ] . 1.2 Candidemia in Non-neutropenic Patients and Other Deep Tissue Candida Infections VFEND is indicated in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) for the treatment of candidemia in non-neutropenic patients and the following Candida infections: disseminated infections in skin and infections in abdomen, kidney, bladder wall, and wounds [see Clinical Studies (14.2 , 14.5) and Microbiology (12.4) ] . 1.3 Esophageal Candidiasis VFEND is indicated in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) for the treatment of esophageal candidiasis (EC) [see Clinical Studies (14.3 , 14.5) and Microbiology (12.4) ] . 1.4 Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis VFEND is indicated for the treatment of serious fungal infections caused by Scedosporium apiospermum (asexual form of Pseudallescheria boydii ) and Fusarium spp. including Fusarium solani , in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) intolerant of, or refractory to, other therapy [see Clinical Studies (14.4) and Microbiology (12.4) ] . 1.5 Usage Specimens for fungal culture and other relevant laboratory studies (including histopathology) should be obtained prior to therapy to isolate and identify causative organism(s). Therapy may be instituted before the results of the cultures and other laboratory studies are known. However, once these results become available, antifungal therapy should be adjusted accordingly. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Voriconazole tablets are an azole antifungal indicated for the treatment of adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older with: Invasive aspergillosis ( 1.1 ) Candidemia in non-neutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections ( 1.2 ) Esophageal candidiasis ( 1.3 ) Serious fungal infections caused by Scedosporium apiospermum and Fusarium species including Fusarium solani , in patients intolerant of, or refractory to, other therapy ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Invasive Aspergillosis Voriconazole tablets are indicated in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis (IA). fumigatus [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 , 14.5 ) and Microbiology ( 12.4 )]. 1.2 Candidemia in Non-neutropenic Patients and Other Deep Tissue Candida Infections Voriconazole tablets are indicated in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) for the treatment of candidemia in non-neutropenic patients and the following Candida infections: disseminated infections in skin and infections in abdomen, kidney, bladder wall, and wounds [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 , 14.5 ) and Microbiology ( 12.4 )]. 1.3 Esophageal Candidiasis Voriconazole tablets are indicated in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) for the treatment of esophageal candidiasis (EC) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 , 14.5 ) and Microbiology ( 12.4 )]. 1.4 Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis Voriconazole tablets are indicated for the treatment of serious fungal infections caused by Scedosporium apiospermum (asexual form of Pseudallescheria boydii ) and Fusarium spp. including Fusarium solani , in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) intolerant of, or refractory to, other therapy [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 ) and Microbiology ( 12.4 )]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Voriconazole for injection is an azole antifungal indicated for the treatment of adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older with: Invasive aspergillosis ( 1.1 ) Candidemia in non-neutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections ( 1.2 ) Esophageal candidiasis ( 1.3 ) Serious fungal infections caused by Scedosporium apiospermum and Fusarium species including Fusarium solani , in patients intolerant of, or refractory to, other therapy ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Invasive Aspergillosis Voriconazole for injection is indicated in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis (IA). 1.2 Candidemia in Non-neutropenic Patients and Other Deep Tissue Candida Infections Voriconazole for injection is indicated in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) for the treatment of candidemia in non-neutropenic patients and the following Candida infections: disseminated infections in skin and infections in abdomen, kidney, bladder wall, and wounds [see Clinical Studies (14.2 , 14.5) and Microbiology (12.4) ]. 1.3 Esophageal Candidiasis Voriconazole for injection is indicated in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) for the treatment of esophageal candidiasis (EC) in adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older [see Clinical Studies (14.3 , 14.5) and Microbiology (12.4) ]. 1.4 Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis Voriconazole for injection is indicated for the treatment of serious fungal infections caused by Scedosporium apiospermum (asexual form of Pseudallescheria boydii ) and Fusarium spp. including Fusarium solani , in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) intolerant of, or refractory to, other therapy [see Clinical Studies (14.4) and Microbiology (12.4) ]. fumigatus [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 , 14.5 ) and Microbiology ( 12.4 )] . 1.2 Candidemia in Non-neutropenic Patients and Other Deep Tissue Candida Infections Voriconazole for injection is indicated in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) for the treatment of candidemia in non-neutropenic patients and the following Candida infections: disseminated infections in skin and infections in abdomen, kidney, bladder wall, and wounds [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 , 14.5 ) and Microbiology ( 12.4 )]. 1.3 Esophageal Candidiasis Voriconazole for injection is indicated in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) for the treatment of esophageal candidiasis (EC) in adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 , 14.5 ) and Microbiology ( 12.4 )]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Voriconazole for oral suspension is an azole antifungal indicated for the treatment of adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older with: Invasive aspergillosis (1.1 ) Candidemia in non-neutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections ( 1.2 ) Esophageal candidiasis ( 1.3 ) Serious fungal infections caused by Scedosporium apiospermum and Fusarium species including Fusarium solani , in patients intolerant of, or refractory to, other therapy ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Invasive Aspergillosis Voriconazole for oral suspension is indicated in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis (IA). 1.2 Candidemia in Non-Neutropenic Patients and Other Deep Tissue Candida Infections Voriconazole for oral suspension is indicated in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) for the treatment of candidemia in non-neutropenic patients and the following Candida infections: disseminated infections in skin and infections in abdomen, kidney, bladder wall, and wounds [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 , 14.5 ) and Microbiology ( 12.4 )] . 1.3 Esophageal Candidiasis Voriconazole for oral suspension is indicated in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) for the treatment of esophageal candidiasis (EC) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 , 14.5 ) and Microbiology ( 12.4 )] . 1.4 Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis Voriconazole for oral suspension is indicated for the treatment of serious fungal infections caused by Scedosporium apiospermum (asexual form of Pseudallescheria boydii ) and Fusarium spp . including Fusarium solani , in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) intolerant of, or refractory to, other therapy [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 ) and Microbiology ( 12.4 )] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Voriconazole tablets are an azole antifungal indicated for the treatment of adults and pediatric patients aged 12 to 14 years weighing greater than or equal to 50 kg and those aged 15 years and older regardless of body weight with: Invasive aspergillosis ( 1.1 ) Candidemia in non-neutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections ( 1.2 ) Esophageal candidiasis ( 1.3 ) Serious fungal infections caused by Scedosporium apiospermum and Fusarium species including Fusarium solani , in patients intolerant of, or refractory to, other therapy ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Invasive Aspergillosis Voriconazole tablets are indicated in adults and pediatric patients (aged 12 to 14 years weighing greater than or equal to 50 kg and those aged 15 years and older regardless of body weight) for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis (IA). 1.2 Candidemia in Non-neutropenic Patients and Other Deep Tissue Candida Infections Voriconazole tablets are indicated in adults and pediatric patients (aged 12 to 14 years weighing greater than or equal to 50 kg and those aged 15 years and older regardless of body weight) for the treatment of candidemia in non-neutropenic patients and the following Candida infections: disseminated infections in skin and infections in abdomen, kidney, bladder wall, and wounds [see Clinical Studies (14.2 , 14.5) and Microbiology (12.4) ]. 1.3 Esophageal Candidiasis Voriconazole tablets are indicated in adults and pediatric patients (aged 12 to 14 years weighing greater than or equal to 50 kg and those aged 15 years and older regardless of body weight) for the treatment of esophageal candidiasis (EC) in adults and pediatric patients aged 12 to 14 years weighing greater than or equal to 50 kg and those aged 15 years and older regardless of body weight [see Clinical Studies (14.3 , 14.5) and Microbiology (12.4) ]. including Fusarium solani , in adults and pediatric patients (aged 12 to 14 years weighing greater than or equal to 50 kg and those aged 15 years and older regardless of body weight) intolerant of, or refractory to, other therapy [see Clinical Studies (14.4) and Microbiology (12.4) ]. Additional pediatric use information is approved for PF PRISM C.V.'s VFEND (voriconazole). However, due to PF PRISM C.V.'s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Voriconazole injection is an azole antifungal indicated for the treatment of adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older with: Invasive aspergillosis ( 1.1 ) Candidemia in non-neutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections ( 1.2 ) Esophageal candidiasis ( 1.3 ) Serious fungal infections caused by Scedosporium apiospermum and Fusarium species including Fusarium solani , in patients intolerant of, or refractory to, other therapy ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Invasive Aspergillosis Voriconazole injection is indicated in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis (IA). 1.2 Candidemia in Non-neutropenic Patients and Other Deep Tissue Candida Infections Voriconazole injection is indicated in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) for the treatment of candidemia in non-neutropenic patients and the following Candida infections: disseminated infections in skin and infections in abdomen, kidney, bladder wall, and wounds [see Clinical Studies (14.2 , 14.5) and Microbiology (12.4) ] . 1.3 Esophageal Candidiasis Voriconazole injection is indicated in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) for the treatment of esophageal candidiasis (EC) in adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older [see Clinical Studies (14.3 , 14.5) and Microbiology (12.4) ] . 1.4 Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis Voriconazole injection is indicated for the treatment of serious fungal infections caused by Scedosporium apiospermum (asexual form of Pseudallescheria boydii ) and Fusarium spp. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Voriconazole tablets are an azole antifungal indicated for the treatment of adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older with: Invasive aspergillosis ( 1.1 ) Candidemia in non-neutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections ( 1.2 ) Esophageal candidiasis ( 1.3 ) Serious fungal infections caused by Scedosporium apiospermum and Fusarium species including Fusarium solani , in patients intolerant of, or refractory to, other therapy ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Invasive Aspergillosis Voriconazole is indicated in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis (IA). fumigatus [see Clinical Studies (14.1 , 14.5 ) and Microbiology (12.4) ] . 1.2 Candidemia in Non-neutropenic Patients and Other Deep Tissue Candida Infections Voriconazole is indicated in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) for the treatment of candidemia in non-neutropenic patients and the following Candida infections: disseminated infections in skin and infections in abdomen, kidney, bladder wall, and wounds [see Clinical Studies (14.2 , 14.5) and Microbiology (12.4) ] . 1.3 Esophageal Candidiasis Voriconazole is indicated in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) for the treatment of esophageal candidiasis (EC) in adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older [see Clinical Studies (14.3 , 14.5) and Microbiology (12.4) ] . 1.4 Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis Voriconazole is indicated for the treatment of serious fungal infections caused by Scedosporium apiospermum (asexual form of Pseudallescheria boydii ) and Fusarium spp. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Voriconazole is an azole antifungal indicated for the treatment of adults and pediatric patients aged 2 years of age and older with: • Invasive aspergillosis ( 1.1 ) • Candidemia in non-neutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections ( 1.2 ) • Esophageal candidiasis ( 1.3 ) • Serious fungal infections caused by Scedosporium apiospermum and Fusarium species including Fusarium solani , in patients intolerant of, or refractory to, other therapy ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Invasive Aspergillosis Voriconazole tablets are indicated in adults and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis (IA). including Fusarium solani , in adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older intolerant of, or refractory to, other therapy [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 ) and Microbiology ( 12.4 )].
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Dosage in Adults ( 2.3 ) Infection Loading Dose Maintenance Dose Intravenous infusion Intravenous infusion Oral tablets Oral suspension Invasive Aspergillosis 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours 5 mL every 12 hours Candidemia in nonneutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections 3–4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours 5 mL every 12 hours Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours 5 mL every 12 hours Esophageal Candidiasis Not Evaluated Not Evaluated 200 mg every 12 hours 5 mL every 12 hours o Adult patients weighing less than 40 kg: oral maintenance dose 100 mg or 150 mg every 12 hours o Hepatic Impairment : Use half the maintenance dose in adult patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A and B) ( 2.5 ) o Renal Impairment : Avoid intravenous administration in adult patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <50 mL/min) ( 2.6 ) • Dosage in Pediatric Patients 2 years of age and older ( 2.4 ) o For pediatric patients 2 to less than 12 years of age and 12 to 14 years of age weighing less than 50 kg see Table below. Infection Loading Dose Maintenance Dose Intravenous infusion Intravenous infusion Oral tablets Oral suspension Invasive Aspergillosis 9 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 8 mg/kg every 12 hours after the first 24 hours 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) 0.225 mL/kg every 12 hours [maximum dose of 8.75 mL (350 mg) every 12 hours] Candidemia in nonneutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis Esophageal Candidiasis Not Evaluated 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) 0.225 mL/kg every 12 hours [maximum dose of 8.75 mL (350 mg) every 12 hours] o For pediatric patients aged 12 to 14 years weighing greater than or equal to 50 kg and those aged 15 years and older regardless of body weight use adult dosage. ( 2.4 ) o Dosage adjustment of VFEND in pediatric patients with renal or hepatic impairment has not been established ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) • See full prescribing information for instructions on reconstitution of VFEND lyophilized powder for intravenous use and important administration instructions ( 2.1 , 2.6 , 2.7 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions for Use in All Patients VFEND I.V. for Injection requires reconstitution to 10 mg/mL and subsequent dilution to 5 mg/mL or less prior to administration as an infusion, at a maximum rate of 3 mg/kg per hour over 1 to 3 hours. Administer diluted VFEND I.V. by intravenous infusion over 1 to 3 hours only. Do not administer as an IV bolus injection. 2.2 Use of VFEND I.V. with Other Parenteral Drug Products Blood products and concentrated electrolytes VFEND I.V. must not be infused concomitantly with any blood product or short-term infusion of concentrated electrolytes, even if the two infusions are running in separate intravenous lines (or cannulas). Electrolyte disturbances such as hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia and hypocalcemia should be corrected prior to initiation of and during VFEND therapy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] . Intravenous solutions containing (non-concentrated) electrolytes VFEND I.V. can be infused at the same time as other intravenous solutions containing (non-concentrated) electrolytes, but must be infused through a separate line. Total parenteral nutrition (TPN) VFEND I.V. can be infused at the same time as total parenteral nutrition, but must be infused in a separate line. If infused through a multiple-lumen catheter, TPN needs to be administered using a different port from the one used for VFEND I.V. 2.3 Recommended Dosing Regimen in Adults Invasive aspergillosis and serious fungal infections due to Fusarium spp. and Scedosporium apiospermum See Table 1. Therapy must be initiated with the specified loading dose regimen of intravenous VFEND on Day 1 followed by the recommended maintenance dose (RMD) regimen. Intravenous treatment should be continued for at least 7 days. Once the patient has clinically improved and can tolerate medication given by mouth, the oral tablet form or oral suspension form of VFEND may be utilized. The recommended oral maintenance dose of 200 mg achieves a voriconazole exposure similar to 3 mg/kg intravenously; a 300 mg oral dose achieves an exposure similar to 4 mg/kg intravenously [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Candidemia in non-neutropenic patients and other deep tissue Candida infections See Table 1. Patients should be treated for at least 14 days following resolution of symptoms or following last positive culture, whichever is longer. Esophageal Candidiasis See Table 1. Patients should be treated for a minimum of 14 days and for at least 7 days following resolution of symptoms. Table 1: Recommended Dosing Regimen (Adults) Infection Loading Dose Maintenance Dose Increase dose when VFEND is coadministered with phenytoin or efavirenz (7); Decrease dose in patients with hepatic impairment (2.5) , In healthy volunteer studies, the 200 mg oral every 12 hours dose provided an exposure (AUC τ ) similar to a 3 mg/kg intravenous infusion every 12 hours dose; the 300 mg oral every 12 hours dose provided an exposure (AUC τ ) similar to a 4 mg/kg intravenous infusion every 12 hours dose (12) . Intravenous infusion Intravenous infusion Oral tablets Adult patients who weigh less than 40 kg should receive half of the oral maintenance dose. Oral suspension Invasive Aspergillosis In a clinical study of IA, the median duration of intravenous VFEND therapy was 10 days (range 2 to 85 days). The median duration of oral VFEND therapy was 76 days (range 2 to 232 days) (14.1) . 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours 5 mL every 12 hours Candidemia in nonneutropenic patients and other deep tissue Candida infections 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 3–4 mg/kg every 12 hours In clinical trials, patients with candidemia received 3 mg/kg intravenous infusion every 12 hours as primary therapy, while patients with other deep tissue Candida infections received 4 mg/kg every 12 hours as salvage therapy. Appropriate dose should be based on the severity and nature of the infection. 200 mg every 12 hours 5 mL every 12 hours Esophageal Candidiasis Not Evaluated Not evaluated in patients with EC. Not Evaluated 200 mg every 12 hours 5 mL every 12 hours Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours 5 mL every 12 hours Method for Adjusting the Dosing Regimen in Adults • If the patient's response is inadequate, the oral maintenance dose for VFEND tablets or oral suspension may be increased from 200 mg (or 5 mL) every 12 hours to 300 mg (or 7.5 mL) every 12 hours. • For adult patients weighing less than 40 kg, the oral maintenance dose for VFEND tablets or oral suspension may be increased from 100 mg (or 2.5 mL) every 12 hours to 150 mg (or 3.75 mL) every 12 hours. • If the patient is unable to tolerate 300 mg (or 7.5 mL) orally every 12 hours, reduce the oral maintenance dose of VFEND tablets or oral suspension by 50 mg (or 1.25 mL) steps to a minimum of 200 mg (or 5 mL) every 12 hours for adult patients weighing more than 40 kg or to 100 mg (or 2.5 mL) every 12 hours for adult patients weighing less than 40 kg. • If the patient is unable to tolerate 4 mg/kg intravenously every 12 hours, reduce the intravenous maintenance dose to 3 mg/kg every 12 hours. 2.4 Recommended Dosing Regimen in Pediatric Patients The recommended dosing regimen for pediatric patients 2 to less than 12 years of age and 12 to 14 years of age with body weight less than 50 kg is shown in Table 2. For pediatric patients 12 to 14 years of age with a body weight greater than or equal to 50 kg and those 15 years of age and above regardless of body weight, administer the adult dosing regimen of VFEND [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . Table 2: Recommended Dosing Regimen for Pediatric Patients 2 to less than 12 years of age and 12 to 14 years of age with body weight less than 50 kg Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis in 112 immunocompromised pediatric patients aged 2 to less than 12 years of age and 26 immunocompromised pediatric patients aged 12 to less than 17 years of age. Loading Dose Maintenance Dose Intravenous infusion Intravenous infusion Oral tablets Oral suspension Invasive Aspergillosis In the Phase 3 clinical trials, patients with IA received intravenous (IV) treatment for at least 6 weeks and up to a maximum of 12 weeks. Patients received IV treatment for at least the first 7 days of therapy and then could be switched to oral VFEND therapy. 9 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 8 mg/kg every 12 hours after the first 24 hours 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) 0.225 mL/kg every 12 hours [maximum dose of 8.75 mL (350 mg) every 12 hours] Candidemia in nonneutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections Study treatment for primary or salvage invasive candidiasis and candidemia (ICC) or EC consisted of intravenous VFEND, with an option to switch to oral therapy after at least 5 days of IV therapy, based on subjects meeting switch criteria. For subjects with primary or salvage ICC, VFEND was administered for at least 14 days after the last positive culture. A maximum of 42 days of treatment was permitted. Patients with primary or salvage EC were treated for at least 7 days after the resolution of clinical signs and symptoms. Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis Esophageal Candidiasis Not Evaluated 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) 0.225 mL/kg every 12 hours [maximum dose of 8.75 mL (350 mg) every 12 hours] Initiate therapy with an intravenous infusion regimen. Consider an oral regimen only after there is a significant clinical improvement. Note that an 8 mg/kg intravenous dose will provide voriconazole exposure approximately 2-fold higher than a 9 mg/kg oral dose. Oral bioavailability may be limited in pediatric patients 2 to 12 years with malabsorption and very low body weight for age. In that case, intravenous VFEND administration is recommended. Method for Adjusting the Dosing Regimen in Pediatric Patients Pediatric Patients 2 to less than 12 years of age and 12 to 14 years of age with body weight less than 50 kg If patient response is inadequate and the patient is able to tolerate the initial intravenous maintenance dose, the maintenance dose may be increased by 1 mg/kg steps. If patient response is inadequate and the patient is able to tolerate the oral maintenance dose, the dose may be increased by 1 mg/kg (0.025 mL/kg) steps or 50 mg (1.25 mL) steps to a maximum of 350 mg (8.75 mL) every 12 hours. If patients are unable to tolerate the initial intravenous maintenance dose, reduce the dose by 1 mg/kg steps. If patients are unable to tolerate the oral maintenance dose, reduce the dose by 1 mg/kg (0.025 mL/kg) or 50 mg (1.25 mL) steps. Pediatric patients 12 to 14 years of age weighing greater than or equal to 50 kg and 15 years of age and older regardless of body weight: Use the optimal method for titrating dosage recommended for adults [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . 2.5 Dosage Modifications in Patients With Hepatic Impairment Adults The maintenance dose of VFEND should be reduced in adult patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment, Child-Pugh Class A and B. There are no PK data to allow for dosage adjustment recommendations in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C). Duration of therapy should be based on the severity of the patient's underlying disease, recovery from immunosuppression, and clinical response. Adult patients with baseline liver function tests (ALT, AST) of up to 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) were included in the clinical program. Dose adjustments are not necessary for adult patients with this degree of abnormal liver function, but continued monitoring of liver function tests for further elevations is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . It is recommended that the recommended VFEND loading dose regimens be used, but that the maintenance dose be halved in adult patients with mild to moderate hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh Class A and B) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . VFEND has not been studied in adult patients with severe hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh Class C) or in patients with chronic hepatitis B or chronic hepatitis C disease. VFEND has been associated with elevations in liver function tests and with clinical signs of liver damage, such as jaundice. VFEND should only be used in patients with severe hepatic impairment if the benefit outweighs the potential risk. Patients with hepatic impairment must be carefully monitored for drug toxicity. Pediatric Patients Dosage adjustment of VFEND in pediatric patients with hepatic impairment has not been established [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . 2.6 Dosage Modifications in Patients With Renal Impairment Adult Patients The pharmacokinetics of orally administered VFEND are not significantly affected by renal impairment. Therefore, no adjustment is necessary for oral dosing in patients with mild to severe renal impairment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . In patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <50 mL/min) who are receiving an intravenous infusion of VFEND, accumulation of the intravenous vehicle, SBECD, occurs. Oral voriconazole should be administered to these patients, unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of intravenous VFEND. Serum creatinine levels should be closely monitored in these patients, and, if increases occur, consideration should be given to changing to oral VFEND therapy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . Voriconazole and the intravenous vehicle, SBECD, are dialyzable. A 4-hour hemodialysis session does not remove a sufficient amount of voriconazole to warrant dose adjustment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Pediatric Patients Dosage adjustment of VFEND in pediatric patients with renal impairment has not been established [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . 2.7 Dosage Adjustment When Coadministered With Phenytoin or Efavirenz The maintenance dose of voriconazole should be increased when coadministered with phenytoin or efavirenz. Use the optimal method for titrating dosage [see Drug Interactions (7) and Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . 2.8 Preparation and Intravenous Administration of VFEND for Injection Reconstitution The powder is reconstituted with 19 mL of Water For Injection to obtain an extractable volume of 20 mL of clear concentrate containing 10 mg/mL of voriconazole. It is recommended that a standard 20 mL (non-automated) syringe be used to ensure that the exact amount (19.0 mL) of Water for Injection is dispensed. Discard the vial if a vacuum does not pull the diluent into the vial. Shake the vial until all the powder is dissolved. Dilution VFEND must be infused over 1 to 3 hours, at a concentration of 5 mg/mL or less. Therefore, the required volume of the 10 mg/mL VFEND concentrate should be further diluted as follows (appropriate diluents listed below): 1. Calculate the volume of 10 mg/mL VFEND concentrate required based on the patient's weight (see Table 3). 2. In order to allow the required volume of VFEND concentrate to be added, withdraw and discard at least an equal volume of diluent from the infusion bag or bottle to be used. The volume of diluent remaining in the bag or bottle should be such that when the 10 mg/mL VFEND concentrate is added, the final concentration is not less than 0.5 mg/mL nor greater than 5 mg/mL. 3. Using a suitable size syringe and aseptic technique, withdraw the required volume of VFEND concentrate from the appropriate number of vials and add to the infusion bag or bottle. Discard Partially Used Vials . The final VFEND solution must be infused over 1 to 3 hours at a maximum rate of 3 mg/kg per hour. Table 3: Required Volumes of 10 mg/mL VFEND Concentrate Body Weight (kg) Volume of VFEND Concentrate (10 mg/mL) required for: 3 mg/kg dose (number of vials) 4 mg/kg dose (number of vials) 6 mg/kg dose (number of vials) 8 mg/kg dose (number of vials) 9 mg/kg dose (number of vials) 10 - 4 mL (1) - 8 mL (1) 9 mL (1) 15 - 6 mL (1) - 12 mL (1) 13.5 mL (1) 20 - 8 mL (1) - 16 mL (1) 18 mL (1) 25 - 10 mL (1) - 20 mL (1) 22.5 mL (2) 30 9 mL (1) 12 mL (1) 18 mL (1) 24 mL (2) 27 mL (2) 35 10.5 mL (1) 14 mL (1) 21 mL (2) 28 mL (2) 31.5 mL (2) 40 12 mL (1) 16 mL (1) 24 mL (2) 32 mL (2) 36 mL (2) 45 13.5 mL (1) 18 mL (1) 27 mL (2) 36 mL (2) 40.5 mL (3) 50 15 mL (1) 20 mL (1) 30 mL (2) 40 mL (2) 45 mL (3) 55 16.5 mL (1) 22 mL (2) 33 mL (2) 44 mL (3) 49.5 mL (3) 60 18 mL (1) 24 mL (2) 36 mL (2) 48 mL (3) 54 mL (3) 65 19.5 mL (1) 26 mL (2) 39 mL (2) 52 mL (3) 58.5 mL (3) 70 21 mL (2) 28 mL (2) 42 mL (3) - - 75 22.5 mL (2) 30 mL (2) 45 mL (3) - - 80 24 mL (2) 32 mL (2) 48 mL (3) - - 85 25.5 mL (2) 34 mL (2) 51 mL (3) - - 90 27 mL (2) 36 mL (2) 54 mL (3) - - 95 28.5 mL (2) 38 mL (2) 57 mL (3) - - 100 30 mL (2) 40 mL (2) 60 mL (3) - - VFEND I.V. for Injection is a single-dose unpreserved sterile lyophile. Therefore, from a microbiological point of view, once reconstituted, the product should be used immediately. If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and should not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F). This medicinal product is for single use only and any unused solution should be discarded. Only clear solutions without particles should be used. The reconstituted solution can be diluted with: 0.9% Sodium Chloride USP Lactated Ringers USP 5% Dextrose and Lactated Ringers USP 5% Dextrose and 0.45% Sodium Chloride USP 5% Dextrose USP 5% Dextrose and 20 mEq Potassium Chloride USP 0.45% Sodium Chloride USP 5% Dextrose and 0.9% Sodium Chloride USP The compatibility of VFEND I.V. with diluents other than those described above is unknown (see Incompatibilities below). Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Incompatibilities VFEND I.V. must not be diluted with 4.2% Sodium Bicarbonate Infusion. The mildly alkaline nature of this diluent caused slight degradation of VFEND after 24 hours storage at room temperature. Although refrigerated storage is recommended following reconstitution, use of this diluent is not recommended as a precautionary measure. Compatibility with other concentrations is unknown. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage in Adults ( 2.3 ) Infection Maintenance Dose Oral tablets Oral suspension Invasive Aspergillosis 200 mg every 12 hours 5 mL every 12 hours Candidemia in nonneutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections 200 mg every 12 hours 5 mL every 12 hours Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis 200 mg every 12 hours 5 mL every 12 hours Esophageal Candidiasis 200 mg every 12 hours 5 mL every 12 hours Adult patients weighing less than 40 kg: oral maintenance dose 100 mg or 150 mg every 12 hours Hepatic Impairment: Use half the maintenance dose in adult patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A and B) ( 2.5 ) Renal Impairment: Avoid intravenous administration in adult patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <50 mL/min) ( 2.6 ) Dosage in Pediatric Patients 2 years of age and older ( 2.4 ) For pediatric patients 2 to less than 12 years of age and 12 to 14 years of age weighing less than 50 kg see Table below. Infection Maintenance Dose Oral tablets Oral suspension Invasive Aspergillosis 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) 0.225 mL/kg every 12 hours [maximum dose of 8.75 mL (350 mg) every 12 hours] Candidemia in nonneutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis Esophageal Candidiasis 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) 0.225 mL/kg every 12 hours [maximum dose of 8.75 mL (350 mg) every 12 hours] For pediatric patients aged 12 to 14 years weighing greater than or equal to 50 kg and those aged 15 years and older regardless of body weight use adult dosage. ( 2.4 ) Dosage adjustment of voriconazole tablets in pediatric patients with renal or hepatic impairment has not been established ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions for Use in All Patients Administer voriconazole tablets at least one hour before or after a meal. Therapy must be initiated with the specified loading dose regimen of intravenous voriconazole on Day 1 followed by the recommended maintenance dose (RMD) regimen. Once the patient has clinically improved and can tolerate medication given by mouth, the oral tablet form of voriconazole may be utilized. The recommended oral maintenance dose of 200 mg achieves a voriconazole exposure similar to 3 mg/kg intravenously; a 300 mg oral dose achieves an exposure similar to 4 mg/kg intravenously [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 1: Recommended Dosing Regimen (Adults) a Increase dose when voriconazole tablets are co-administered with phenytoin or efavirenz (7); Decrease dose in patients with hepatic impairment ( 2.5 ) b In healthy volunteer studies, the 200 mg oral every 12 hours dose provided an exposure (AUCτ) similar to a 3 mg/kg intravenous infusion every 12 hours dose; the 300 mg oral every 12 hours dose provided an exposure (AUCτ) similar to a 4 mg/kg intravenous infusion every 12 hours dose ( 12 ) c Adult patients who weigh less than 40 kg should receive half of the oral maintenance dose. d In a clinical study of IA, the median duration of intravenous voriconazole therapy was 10 days (range 2 to 85 days). The median duration of oral voriconazole therapy was 76 days (range 2 to 232 days) ( 14.1 ). e In clinical trials, patients with candidemia received 3 mg/kg intravenous infusion every 12 hours as primary therapy, while patients with other deep tissue Candida infections received 4 mg/kg every 12 hours as salvage therapy. f Not evaluated in patients with EC. Infection Loading Dose Maintenance Dose a,b Intravenous infusion Intravenous infusion Oral tablets c Oral suspension Invasive Aspergillosis d 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours 5 mL every 12 hours Candidemia in nonneutropenic patients and other deep tissue Candida infections 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 3-4 mg/kg every 12 hours e 200 mg every 12 hours 5 mL every 12 hours Esophageal Candidiasis Not Evaluated f Not Evaluated f 200 mg every 12 hours 5 mL every 12 hours Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours 5 mL every 12 hours Method for Adjusting the Dosing Regimen in Adults If the patient’s response is inadequate, the oral maintenance dose for voriconazole tablets or oral suspension may be increased from 200 mg (or 5 mL) every 12 hours to 300 mg (or 7.5 mL) every 12 hours. For adult patients weighing less than 40 kg, the oral maintenance dose for voriconazole tablets or oral suspension may be increased from 100 mg (or 2.5 mL) every 12 hours to 150 mg (or 3.75 mL) every 12 hours. If the patient is unable to tolerate 300 mg (or 7.5 mL) orally every 12 hours, reduce the oral maintenance dose of voriconazole tablets or oral suspension by 50 mg (or 1.25 mL) steps to a minimum of 200 mg (or 5 mL) every 12 hours for adult patients weighing more than 40 kg or to 100 mg (or 2.5 mL) every 12 hours for adult patients weighing less than 40 kg. If the patient is unable to tolerate 4 mg/kg intravenously every 12 hours, reduce the intravenous maintenance dose to 3 mg/kg every 12 hours. For pediatric patients 12 to 14 years of age with a body weight greater than or equal to 50 kg and those 15 years of age and above regardless of body weight, administer the adult dosing regimen of voriconazole tablets [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] . Table 2: Recommended Dosing Regimen for Pediatric Patients 2 to less than 12 years of age and 12 to 14 years of age with body weight less than 50 kg^ ^ Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis in 112 immunocompromised pediatric patients aged 2 to less than 12 years of age and 26 immunocompromised pediatric patients aged 12 to less than 17 years of age. * In the Phase 3 clinical trials, patients with IA received intravenous (IV) treatment for at least 6 weeks and up to a maximum of 12 weeks. Patients received IV treatment for at least the first 7 days of therapy and then could be switched to oral voriconazole therapy. † Study treatment for primary or salvage invasive candidiasis and candidemia (ICC) or EC consisted of intravenous voriconazole, with an option to switch to oral therapy after at least 5 days of IV therapy, based on subjects meeting switch criteria. For subjects with primary or salvage ICC, voriconazole was administered for at least 14 days after the last positive culture. Loading Dose Maintenance Dose Intravenous infusion Intravenous infusion Oral tablets Oral suspension Invasive Aspergillosis* 9 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 8 mg/kg every 12 hours after the first 24 hours 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) 0.225 mL/kg every 12 hours [maximum dose of 8.75 mL (350 mg) every 12 hours] Candidemia in nonneutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections † Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis Esophageal Candidiasis † Not Evaluated 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) 0.225 mL/kg every 12 hours [maximum dose of 8.75 mL (350 mg) every 2 hours] Initiate therapy with an intravenous infusion regimen. The oral dose recommendation for children is based on studies in which voriconazole was administered as the powder for oral suspension formulation. Bioequivalence between the voriconazole powder for oral suspension and voriconazole tablets has not been investigated in a pediatric population. In that case, intravenous voriconazole administration is recommended. Pediatric patients 12 to 14 years of age weighing greater than or equal to 50 kg and 15 years of age and older regardless of body weight: Use the optimal method for titrating dosage recommended for adults [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] . 2.5 Dosage Modifications in Patients With Hepatic Impairment Adults The maintenance dose of voriconazole should be reduced in adult patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment, Child-Pugh Class A and B. Duration of therapy should be based on the severity of the patient’s underlying disease, recovery from immunosuppression, and clinical response. Dose adjustments are not necessary for adult patients with this degree of abnormal liver function, but continued monitoring of liver function tests for further elevations is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . It is recommended that the recommended voriconazole loading dose regimens be used, but that the maintenance dose be halved in adult patients with mild to moderate hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh Class A and B) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Voriconazole has not been studied in adult patients with severe hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh Class C) or in patients with chronic hepatitis B or chronic hepatitis C disease. Voriconazole has been associated with elevations in liver function tests and with clinical signs of liver damage, such as jaundice. Voriconazole tablets should only be used in patients with severe hepatic impairment if the benefit outweighs the potential risk. Pediatric Patients Dosage adjustment of voriconazole tablets in pediatric patients with hepatic impairment has not been established [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] . 2.6 Dosage Modifications in Patients With Renal Impairment Adult Patients The pharmacokinetics of orally administered voriconazole tablets are not significantly affected by renal impairment. Therefore, no adjustment is necessary for oral dosing in patients with mild to severe renal impairment [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . In patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <50 mL/min) who are receiving an intravenous infusion of voriconazole, accumulation of the intravenous vehicle, SBECD, occurs. Oral voriconazole should be administered to these patients, unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of intravenous voriconazole. Serum creatinine levels should be closely monitored in these patients, and, if increases occur, consideration should be given to changing to oral voriconazole therapy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . A 4-hour hemodialysis session does not remove a sufficient amount of voriconazole to warrant dose adjustment [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Pediatric Patients Dosage adjustment of voriconazole tablets in pediatric patients with renal impairment has not been established [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] . 2.7 Dosage Adjustment When Co-Administered With Phenytoin or Efavirenz The maintenance dose of voriconazole should be increased when co-administered with phenytoin or efavirenz. Use the optimal method for titrating dosage [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Dosage in Adults ( 2.3 ) Infection Loading Dose Maintenance Dose Intravenous Infusion Intravenous Infusion Oral Invasive Aspergillosis 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours Candidemia in nonneutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections 3 to 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours Esophageal Candidiasis Not Evaluated Not Evaluated 200 mg every 12 hours o Adult patients weighing less than 40 kg: oral maintenance dose 100 mg or 150 mg every 12 hours o Hepatic Impairment: Use half the maintenance dose in adult patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child- Pugh Class A and B) ( 2.5 ) o Renal Impairment: Avoid intravenous administration in adult patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <50 mL/min) ( 2.6 ) • Dosage in Pediatric Patients 2 years of age and older ( 2.4 ) o For pediatric patients 2 to less than 12 years of age and 12 to 14 years of age weighing less than 50 kg see Table below. Infection Loading Dose Maintenance Dose Intravenous Infusion Intravenous Infusion Oral Invasive Aspergillosis 9 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 8 mg/kg every 12 hours after the first 24 hours 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) Candidemia in nonneutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis Esophageal Candidiasis Not Evaluated 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) o For pediatric patients aged 12 to 14 years weighing greater than or equal to 50 kg and those aged 15 years and older regardless of body weight use adult dosage. ( 2.4 ) o Dosage adjustment of voriconazole for injection in pediatric patients with renal or hepatic impairment has not been established ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) • See full prescribing information for instructions on reconstitution of voriconazole lyophilized powder for intravenous use and important administration instructions ( 2.1 , 2.8 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions for Use in All Patients Voriconazole for injection requires reconstitution to 10 mg/mL and subsequent dilution to 5 mg/mL or less prior to administration as an infusion, at a maximum rate of 3 mg/kg per hour over 1 to 3 hours. Administer diluted voriconazole for injection by intravenous infusion over 1 to 3 hours only. 2.2 Use of Voriconazole for Injection with Other Parenteral Drug Products Blood products and concentrated electrolytes Voriconazole for injection must not be infused concomitantly with any blood product or short-term infusion of concentrated electrolytes, even if the two infusions are running in separate intravenous lines (or cannulas). Electrolyte disturbances such as hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia and hypocalcemia should be corrected prior to initiation of and during voriconazole for injection therapy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] . Intravenous solutions containing (non-concentrated) electrolytes Voriconazole for injection can be infused at the same time as other intravenous solutions containing (non-concentrated) electrolytes, but must be infused through a separate line. Total parenteral nutrition (TPN) Voriconazole for injection can be infused at the same time as total parenteral nutrition, but must be infused in a separate line. If infused through a multiple-lumen catheter, TPN needs to be administered using a different port from the one used for voriconazole for injection. Once the patient has clinically improved and can tolerate medication given by mouth, the oral tablet form or oral suspension form of voriconazole may be utilized. Table 1: Recommended Dosing Regimen (Adults) a Increase dose when voriconazole is co-administered with phenytoin or efavirenz (7); Decrease dose in patients with hepatic impairment (2.5) b In healthy volunteer studies, the 200 mg oral every 12 hours dose provided an exposure (AUC τ ) similar to a 3 mg/kg intravenous infusion every 12 hours dose; the 300 mg oral every 12 hours dose provided an exposure (AUC τ ) similar to a 4 mg/kg intravenous infusion every 12 hours dose (12). c Adult patients who weigh less than 40 kg should receive half of the oral maintenance dose. The median duration of oral voriconazole therapy was 76 days (range 2 to 232 days) (14.1). Infection Loading Dose Maintenance Dose a,b Intravenous Infusion Intravenous Infusion Oral c Invasive Aspergillosis d 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours Candidemia in nonneutropenic patients and other deep tissue Candida infections 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 3 to 4 mg/kg every 12 hours e 200 mg every 12 hours Esophageal Candidiasis Not Evaluated f Not Evaluated f 200 mg every 12 hours Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours Method for Adjusting the Dosing Regimen in Adults If patient’s response is inadequate, the oral maintenance dose may be increased from 200 mg every 12 hours (similar to 3 mg/kg intravenously every 12 hours) to 300 mg every 12 hours (similar to 4 mg/kg intravenously every 12 hours). For adult patients weighing less than 40 kg, the oral maintenance dose may be increased from 100 mg every 12 hours to 150 mg every 12 hours. If patient is unable to tolerate 300 mg orally every 12 hours, reduce the oral maintenance dose by 50 mg steps to a minimum of 200 mg every 12 hours (or to 100 mg every 12 hours for adult patients weighing less than 40 kg). If patient is unable to tolerate 4 mg/kg intravenously every 12 hours, reduce the intravenous maintenance dose to 3 mg/kg every 12 hours. For pediatric patients 12 to 14 years of age with a body weight greater than or equal to 50 kg and those 15 years of age and above regardless of body weight, administer the adult dosing regimen of Voriconazole for injection [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . † Study treatment for primary or salvage invasive candidiasis and candidemia (ICC) or EC consisted of intravenous voriconazole for injection, with an option to switch to oral therapy after at least 5 days of IV therapy, based on subjects meeting switch criteria. For subjects with primary or salvage ICC, voriconazole for injection was administered for at least 14 days after the last positive culture. Loading Dose Maintenance Dose Intravenous Infusion Intravenous Infusion Oral Invasive Aspergillosis* 9 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 8 mg/kg every 12 hours after the first 24 hours 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) Candidemia in nonneutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections † Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis Esophageal Candidiasis† Not Evaluated 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) Initiate therapy with an intravenous infusion regimen. In that case, intravenous voriconazole for injection administration is recommended. If patient response is inadequate and the patient is able to tolerate the oral maintenance dose, the dose may be increased by 1 mg/kg steps or 50 mg steps to a maximum of 350 mg every 12 hours. If patients are unable to tolerate the oral maintenance dose, reduce the dose by 1 mg/kg or 50 mg steps. It is recommended that the recommended voriconazole loading dose regimens be used, but that the maintenance dose be halved in adult patients with mild to moderate hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh Class A and B) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Voriconazole should only be used in patients with severe hepatic impairment if the benefit outweighs the potential risk. Pediatric Patients Dosage adjustment of voriconazole in pediatric patients with hepatic impairment has not been established [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . 2.6 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Renal Impairment Adult Patients The pharmacokinetics of orally administered voriconazole are not significantly affected by renal impairment. Serum creatinine levels should be closely monitored in these patients, and, if increases occur, consideration should be given to changing to oral voriconazole therapy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . A 4-hour hemodialysis session does not remove a sufficient amount of voriconazole to warrant dose adjustment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Pediatric Patients Dosage adjustment of voriconazole in pediatric patients with renal impairment has not been established [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. 2.8 Preparation and Intravenous Administration of Voriconazole for Injection Reconstitution The powder is reconstituted with 19 mL of Water for Injection to obtain an extractable volume of 20 mL of clear concentrate containing 10 mg/mL of voriconazole. It is recommended that a standard 20 mL (non-automated) syringe be used to ensure that the exact amount (19 mL) of Water for Injection is dispensed. Dilution Voriconazole for injection must be infused over 1 to 3 hours, at a concentration of 5 mg/mL or less. Therefore, the required volume of the 10 mg/mL voriconazole for injection concentrate should be further diluted as follows (appropriate diluents listed below): Calculate the volume of 10 mg/mL voriconazole for injection concentrate required based on the patient’s weight (see Table 3). In order to allow the required volume of voriconazole for injection concentrate to be added, withdraw and discard at least an equal volume of diluent from the infusion bag or bottle to be used. The volume of diluent remaining in the bag or bottle should be such that when the 10 mg/mL voriconazole for injection concentrate is added, the final concentration is not less than 0.5 mg/mL nor greater than 5 mg/mL. Using a suitable size syringe and aseptic technique, withdraw the required volume of voriconazole for injection concentrate from the appropriate number of vials and add to the infusion bag or bottle. The final voriconazole for injection solution must be infused over 1 to 3 hours at a maximum rate of 3 mg/kg per hour. Table 3: Required Volumes of 10 mg/mL Voriconazole for Injection Concentrate Body Weight (kg) Volume of Voriconazole for Injection Concentrate (10 mg/mL) required for: 3 mg/kg dose (number of vials) 4 mg/kg dose (number of vials) 6 mg/kg dose (number of vials) 8 mg/kg dose (number of vials) 9 mg/kg dose (number of vials) 10 - 4 mL (1) - 8 mL (1) 9 mL (1) 15 - 6 mL (1) - 12 mL (1) 13.5 mL (1) 20 - 8 mL (1) - 16 mL (1) 18 mL (1) 25 - 10 mL (1) - 20 mL (1) 22.5 mL (2) 30 9 mL (1) 12 mL (1) 18 mL (1) 24 mL (2) 27 mL (2) 35 10.5 mL (1) 14 mL (1) 21 mL (2) 28 mL (2) 31.5 mL (2) 40 12 mL (1) 16 mL (1) 24 mL (2) 32 mL (2) 36 mL (2) 45 13.5 mL (1) 18 mL (1) 27 mL (2) 36 mL (2) 40.5 mL (3) 50 15 mL (1) 20 mL (1) 30 mL (2) 40 mL (2) 45 mL (3) 55 16.5 mL (1) 22 mL (2) 33 mL (2) 44 mL (3) 49.5 mL (3) 60 18 mL (1) 24 mL (2) 36 mL (2) 48 mL (3) 54 mL (3) 65 19.5 mL (1) 26 mL (2) 39 mL (2) 52 mL (3) 58.5 mL (3) 70 21 mL (2) 28 mL (2) 42 mL (3) - - 75 22.5 mL (2) 30 mL (2) 45 mL (3) - - 80 24 mL (2) 32 mL (2) 48 mL (3) - - 85 25.5 mL (2) 34 mL (2) 51 mL (3) - - 90 27 mL (2) 36 mL (2) 54 mL (3) - - 95 28.5 mL (2) 38 mL (2) 57 mL (3) - - 100 30 mL (2) 40 mL (2) 60 mL (3) - - Voriconazole for injection is a single-dose unpreserved sterile lyophile. If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and should not be longer than 24 hours at 2° to 8°C (36° to 46°F). The reconstituted solution can be diluted with: 0.9% Sodium Chloride USP Lactated Ringers USP 5% Dextrose and Lactated Ringers USP 5% Dextrose and 0.45% Sodium Chloride USP 5% Dextrose USP 5% Dextrose and 20 mEq Potassium Chloride USP 0.45% Sodium Chloride USP 5% Dextrose and 0.9% Sodium Chloride USP The compatibility of voriconazole for injection with diluents other than those described above is unknown (see Incompatibilities below). Incompatibilities Voriconazole for injection must not be diluted with 4.2% Sodium Bicarbonate Infusion. The mildly alkaline nature of this diluent caused slight degradation of voriconazole for injection after 24 hours storage at room temperature. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage in Adults ( 2.3 ) Infection Loading dose Maintenance Dose Intravenous infusion Intravenous infusion Oral Invasive Aspergillosis 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours Candidemia in nonneutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections 3 to 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours Esophageal Candidiasis Not Evaluated Not Evaluated 200 mg every 12 hours Adult patients weighing less than 40 kg: oral maintenance dose 100 mg or 150 mg every 12 hours Hepatic Impairment: Use half the maintenance dose in adult patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A and B) ( 2.5 ) Renal Impairment: Avoid intravenous administration in adult patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <50 mL/min) ( 2.6 ) Dosage in Pediatric Patients 2 years of age and older ( 2.4 ) For pediatric patients 2 to less than 12 years of age and 12 to 14 years of age weighing less than 50 kg see Table below. Infection Loading Dose Maintenance Dose Intravenous infusion Intravenous infusion Oral Invasive Aspergillosis 9 mg/kg every12 hours for the first 24 hours 8 mg/kg every 12 hours after the first 24 hours 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) Candidemia in nonneutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis Esophageal Candidiasis Not Evaluated 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) For pediatric patients aged 12 to 14 years weighing greater than or equal to 50 kg and those aged 15 years and older regardless of body weight use adult dosage. ( 2.4 ) Dosage adjustment of voriconazole for injection in pediatric patients with renal or hepatic impairment has not been established ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) See full prescribing information for instructions on reconstitution of voriconazole for injection lyophilized powder for intravenous use and important administration instructions ( 2.1 , 2.6 , 2.7 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions for Use in All Patients Voriconazole for injection requires reconstitution to 10 mg/mL and subsequent dilution to 5 mg/mL or less prior to administration as an infusion, at a maximum rate of 3 mg/kg per hour over 1 to 3 hours. Electrolyte disturbances such as hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia and hypocalcemia should be corrected prior to initiation of and during voriconazole for injection therapy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . and Scedosporium apiospermum See Table 1 . The recommended oral maintenance dose of 200 mg achieves a voriconazole exposure similar to 3 mg/kg intravenously; a 300 mg oral dose achieves an exposure similar to 4 mg/kg intravenously [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Candidemia in non-neutropenic patients and other deep tissue Candida infections See Table 1 . Esophageal Candidiasis See Table 1 . Table 1: Recommended Dosing Regimen (Adults) a Increase dose when voriconazole is co-administered with phenytoin or efavirenz ( 7 ); Decrease dose in patients with hepatic impairment ( 2.5 ) b In healthy volunteer studies, the 200 mg oral every 12 hours dose provided an exposure (AUC τ ) similar to a 3 mg/kg intravenous infusion every 12 hours dose; the 300 mg oral every 12 hours dose provided an exposure (AUC τ ) similar to a 4 mg/kg intravenous infusion every 12 hours dose ( 12 ). Infection Loading Dose Maintenance Dose a,b Intravenous infusion Intravenous infusion Oral c Invasive Aspergillosis d 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours Candidemia in nonneutropenic patients and other deep tissue Candida infections 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 3 to 4 mg/kg every 12 hours e 200 mg every 12 hours Esophageal Candidiasis Not Evaluated f Not Evaluated f 200 mg every 12 hours Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours Method for Adjusting the Dosing Regimen in Adults If patient's response is inadequate, the oral maintenance dose may be increased from 200 mg every 12 hours (similar to 3 mg/kg intravenously every 12 hours) to 300 mg every 12 hours (similar to 4 mg/kg intravenously every 12 hours). 2.4 Recommended Dosing Regimen in Pediatric Patients The recommended dosing regimen for pediatric patients 2 to less than 12 years of age and 12 to 14 years of age with body weight less than 50 kg is shown in Table 2 . For pediatric patients 12 to 14 years of age with a body weight greater than or equal to 50 kg and those 15 years of age and above regardless of body weight, administer the adult dosing regimen of voriconazole [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )]. Loading Dose Maintenance Dose Intravenous infusion Intravenous infusion Oral Invasive Aspergillosis* 9 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 8 mg/kg every 12 hours after the first 24 hours 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) Candidemia in nonneutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections † Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis Esophageal Candidiasis † Not Evaluated 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) Initiate therapy with an intravenous infusion regimen. Pediatric patients 12 to 14 years of age weighing greater than or equal to 50 kg and 15 years of age and older regardless of body weight: Use the optimal method for titrating dosage recommended for adults [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )]. Pediatric Patients Dosage adjustment of voriconazole in pediatric patients with hepatic impairment has not been established [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] . Pediatric Patients Dosage adjustment of voriconazole in pediatric patients with renal impairment has not been established [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] . Therefore, the required volume of the 10 mg/mL voriconazole for injection concentrate should be further diluted as follows (appropriate diluents listed below): Calculate the volume of 10 mg/mL voriconazole for injection concentrate required based on the patient's weight (see Table 3 ). The mildly alkaline nature of this diluent caused slight degradation of voriconazole after 24 hours storage at room temperature. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage in Adults (2.3 ) Infection Loading Dose Maintenance Dose Intravenous Infusion Intravenous Infusion Oral Tablets Oral Suspension Invasive Aspergillosis 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours 5 mL every 12 hours Candidemia in non-neutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections 3-4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours 5 mL every 12 hours Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours 5 mL every 12 hours Esophageal Candidiasis Not Evaluated Not Evaluated 200 mg every 12 hours 5 mL every 12 hours Adult patients weighing less than 40 kg: oral maintenance dose 100 mg or 150 mg every 12 hours Hepatic Impairment: Use half the maintenance dose in adult patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A and B) ( 2.5 ) Renal Impairment: Avoid intravenous administration in adult patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <50 mL/min) ( 2.6 ) Dosage in Pediatric Patients 2 years of age and older ( 2.4 ) For pediatric patients 2 to less than 12 years of age and 12 to 14 years of age weighing less than 50 kg see Table below. Infection Loading Dose Maintenance Dose Intravenous Infusion Intravenous Infusion Oral Tablets Oral Suspension Invasive Aspergillosis 9 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 8 mg/kg every 12 hours after the first 24 hours 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) 0.225 mL/kg every 12 hours [maximum dose of 8.75 mL (350 mg) every 12 hours] Candidemia in non-neutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis Esophageal Candidiasis Not Evaluated 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) 0.225 mL/kg every 12 hours [maximum dose of 8.75 mL (350 mg) every 12 hours] For pediatric patients aged 12 to 14 years weighing greater than or equal to 50 kg and those aged 15 years and older regardless of body weight use adult dosage ( 2.4 ) Dosage adjustment of voriconazole in pediatric patients with renal or hepatic impairment has not been established ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) See full prescribing information for instructions on reconstitution of voriconazole for oral suspension and important administration instructions ( 2.1 , 2.6 , 2.7 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions for Use in All Patients Administer voriconazole oral suspension at least one hour before or after a meal. and Scedosporiumapiospermum See Table 1. Table 1: Recommended Dosing Regimen (Adults) Infection Loading Dose Maintenance Dose Increase dose when voriconazole for oral suspension is co-administered with phenytoin or efavirenz (7); Decrease dose in patients with hepatic impairment ( 2.5). In healthy volunteer studies, the 200 mg oral every 12 hours dose provided an exposure (AUCτ) similar to a 3 mg/kg intravenous infusion every 12 hours dose; the 300 mg oral every 12 hours dose provided an exposure (AUCτ) similar to a 4 mg/kg intravenous infusion every 12 hours dose ( 12). Oral Suspension Invasive Aspergillosis In a clinical study of IA, the median duration of intravenous voriconazole therapy was 10 days (range 2 to 85 days). The median duration of oral voriconazole therapy was 76 days (range 2 to 232 days) ( 14.1). 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours 5 mL every 12 hours Candidemia in Non-neutropenic Patients and Other Deep Tissue Candida Infections 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 3-4 mg/kg every 12 hours In clinical trials, patients with candidemia received 3 mg/kg intravenous infusion every 12 hours as primary therapy, while patients with other deep tissue Candida infections received 4 mg/kg every 12 hours as salvage therapy. Not Evaluated 200 mg every 12 hours 5 mL every 12 hours Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours 5 mL every 12 hours Method for Adjusting the Dosing Regimen in Adults If the patient’s response is inadequate, the oral maintenance dose for voriconazole tablets or oral suspension may be increased from 200 mg (or 5 mL) every 12 hours to 300 mg (or 7.5 mL) every 12 hours. If the patient is unable to tolerate 300 mg (or 7.5 mL) orally every 12 hours, reduce the oral maintenance dose of voriconazole tablets or oral suspension by 50 mg (or 1.25 mL) steps to a minimum of 200 mg (or 5 mL) every 12 hours for adult patients weighing more than 40 kg or to 100 mg every 12 hours for adult patients weighing less than 40 kg. For pediatric patients 12 to 14 years of age with a body weight greater than or equal to 50 kg and those 15 years of age and above regardless of body weight, administer the adult dosing regimen of voriconazole for oral suspension [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] . Patients received IV treatment for at least the first 7 days of therapy and then could be switched to oral voriconazole for oral suspension therapy. 9 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 8 mg/kg every 12 hours after the first 24 hours 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) 0.225 mL/kg every 12 hours [maximum dose of 8.75 mL (350 mg) every 12 hours] Candidemia in Non-neutropenics and Other Deep Tissue Candida Infections Study treatment for primary or salvage invasive candidiasis and candidemia (ICC) or EC consisted of intravenous voriconazole for oral suspension, with an option to switch to oral therapy after at least 5 days of IV therapy, based on subjects meeting switch criteria. For subjects with primary or salvage ICC, voriconazole for oral suspension was administered for at least 14 days after the last positive culture. Method for Adjusting the Dosing Regimen in Pediatric Patients Pediatric patients 2 to less than 12 years of age and 12 to 14 years of age with body weight less than 50 kg: If patient response is inadequate and the patient is able to tolerate the initial intravenous maintenance dose, the maintenance dose may be increased by 1 mg/kg steps. If patients are unable to tolerate the oral maintenance dose, reduce the dose by 1 mg/kg (0.025 mL/kg) or 50 mg steps (1.25 mL). 2.5 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Adults The maintenance dose of voriconazole for oral suspension should be reduced in adult patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment, Child-Pugh Class A and B. It is recommended that the recommended voriconazole for oral suspension loading dose regimens be used, but that the maintenance dose be halved in adult patients with mild to moderate hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh Class A and B) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Voriconazole for oral suspension has not been studied in adult patients with severe hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh Class C) or in patients with chronic hepatitis B or chronic hepatitis C disease. Voriconazole for oral suspension has been associated with elevations in liver function tests and with clinical signs of liver damage, such as jaundice. Voriconazole for oral suspension should only be used in patients with severe hepatic impairment if the benefit outweighs the potential risk. Pediatric Patients Dosage adjustment of voriconazole for oral suspension in pediatric patients with hepatic impairment has not been established [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] . Pediatric Patients Dosage adjustment of voriconazole for oral suspension in pediatric patients with renal impairment has not been established [see Use in Specific Population ( 8.4 )] . 2.9 Preparation and Administration of Voriconazole for Oral Suspension Reconstitution Tap the bottle to release the powder. Add 46 mL of water to the bottle. Shake the closed bottle vigorously for about 1 minute. Remove child-resistant cap and push bottle adaptor into the neck of the bottle. Replace the cap. Write the date of expiration of the reconstituted suspension on the bottle label (the shelf-life of the reconstituted suspension is 14 days at controlled room temperature 15°C to 30°C [59°F to 86°F]). Instructions for Use Shake the closed bottle of reconstituted suspension for approximately 10 seconds before each use. The reconstituted oral suspension should only be administered using the oral dispenser supplied with each pack. Incompatibilities Voriconazole for Oral Suspension and the 40 mg/mL reconstituted oral suspension should not be mixed with any other medication or additional flavoring agent. It is not intended that the suspension be further diluted with water or other vehicles. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage in Adults ( 2.3 ) Infection Loading Dose Maintenance Dose Intravenous infusion Intravenous infusion Oral Invasive Aspergillosis 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours Candidemia in nonneutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections 3 to 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours Esophageal Candidiasis Not Evaluated Not Evaluated 200 mg every 12 hours Adult patients weighing less than 40 kg: oral maintenance dose 100 mg or 150 mg every 12 hours Hepatic Impairment : Use half the maintenance dose in adult patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A and B) ( 2.5 ) Renal Impairment : Avoid intravenous administration in adult patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <50 mL/min) ( 2.6 ) Dosage in Pediatric Patients ( 2.4 ) For pediatric patients aged 12 to 14 years weighing greater than or equal to 50 kg and those aged 15 years and older regardless of body weight use adult dosage. ( 2.4 ) Dosage adjustment of voriconazole in pediatric patients with renal or hepatic impairment has not been established. ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions for Use in All Patients Administer voriconazole tablets at least one hour before or after a meal. 2.3 Recommended Dosing Regimen in Adults Invasive Aspergillosis and Serious Fungal Infections due to Fusarium spp . The recommended oral maintenance dose of 200 mg achieves a voriconazole exposure similar to 3 mg/kg intravenously; a 300 mg oral dose achieves an exposure similar to 4 mg/kg intravenously. Switching between the intravenous and oral formulations is appropriate because of the high bioavailability of the oral formulation in adults [see Clinical Pharmacology (12) ] . Table 1: Recommended Dosing Regimen (Adults) Infection Loading Dose Maintenance Dose*, † Intravenous infusion Intravenous infusion Oral ‡ Invasive Aspergillosis§ 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours Candidemia in nonneutropenic patients and other deep tissue Candida infections 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 3 to 4 mg/kg every 12 hours ¶ 200 mg every 12 hours Esophageal Candidiasis Not Evaluated # Not Evaluated # 200 mg every 12 hours Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours *Increase dose when voriconazole is co-administered with phenytoin or efavirenz (7); Decrease dose in patients with hepatic impairment (2.5) † In healthy volunteer studies, the 200 mg oral every 12 hours dose provided an exposure (AUCτ) similar to a 3 mg/kg intravenous infusion every 12 hours dose; the 300 mg oral every 12 hours dose provided an exposure (AUCτ) similar to a 4 mg/kg intravenous infusion every 12 hours dose (12). ‡ Adult patients who weigh less than 40 kg should receive half of the oral maintenance dose. § In a clinical study of IA, the median duration of intravenous voriconazole therapy was 10 days (range 2 to 85 days). ¶ In clinical trials, patients with candidemia received 3 mg/kg intravenous infusion every 12 hours as primary therapy, while patients with other deep tissue Candida infections received 4 mg/kg every 12 hours as salvage therapy. # Not evaluated in patients with EC. Method for Adjusting the Dosing Regimen in Adults If patient's response is inadequate, the oral maintenance dose may be increased from 200 mg every 12 hours (similar to 3 mg/kg intravenously every 12 hours) to 300 mg every 12 hours (similar to 4 mg/kg intravenously every 12 hours). 2.4 Recommended Dosing Regimen in Pediatric Patients For pediatric patients 12 to 14 years of age with a body weight greater than or equal to 50 kg and those 15 years of age and above regardless of body weight, administer the adult dosing regimen of voriconazole [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . Initiate therapy with an intravenous infusion regimen. Method for Adjusting the Dosing Regimen in Pediatric Patients Pediatric patients 12 to 14 years of age weighing greater than or equal to 50 kg and 15 years of age and older regardless of body weight Use the optimal method for titrating dosage recommended for adults [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . Additional pediatric use information is approved for PF PRISM C.V.'s VFEND (voriconazole). However, due to PF PRISM C.V.'s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. Pediatric Patients Dosage adjustment of voriconazole in pediatric patients with hepatic impairment has not been established [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. A 4-hour hemodialysis session does not remove a sufficient amount of voriconazole to warrant dose adjustment [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Pediatric Patients Dosage adjustment of voriconazole in pediatric patients with renal impairment has not been established [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage in Adults ( 2.3 ) Infection Loading dose Maintenance Dose Intravenous infusion Intravenous infusion Invasive Aspergillosis 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 4 mg/kg every 12 hours Candidemia in nonneutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections 3-4 mg/kg every 12 hours Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis 4 mg/kg every 12 hours Esophageal Candidiasis Not Evaluated Not Evaluated o Hepatic Impairment : Use half the maintenance dose in adult patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A and B) ( 2.5 ) o Renal Impairment : Avoid intravenous administration in adult patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <50 mL/min) ( 2.6 ) Dosage in Pediatric Patients 2 years of age and older ( 2.4 ) o For pediatric patients 2 to less than 12 years of age and 12 to 14 years of age weighing less than 50 kg see Table below. Infection Loading Dose Maintenance Dose Intravenous infusion Intravenous infusion Invasive Aspergillosis 9 mg/kg every12 hours for the first 24 hours 8 mg/kg every 12 hours after the first 24 hours Candidemia in nonneutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis Esophageal Candidiasis Not Evaluated 4 mg/kg every 12 hours o For pediatric patients aged 12 to 14 years weighing greater than or equal to 50 kg and those aged 15 years and older regardless of body weight use adult dosage. ( 2.4 ) o Dosage adjustment of voriconazole in pediatric patients with renal or hepatic impairment has not been established ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) See full prescribing information for instructions on dilution of voriconazole for intravenous use and important administration instructions ( 2.1 , 2.6 , 2.7 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions for Use in All Patients Voriconazole injection requires reconstitution to 10 mg/mL and subsequent dilution to 5 mg/mL or less prior to administration as an infusion, at a maximum rate of 3 mg/kg per hour over 1 to 3 hours. Administer diluted voriconazole injection by intravenous infusion over 1 to 3 hours only. 2.2 Use of Voriconazole Injection with Other Parenteral Drug Products Blood products and concentrated electrolytes Voriconazole injection must not be infused concomitantly with any blood product or short-term infusion of concentrated electrolytes, even if the two infusions are running in separate intravenous lines (or cannulas). Electrolyte disturbances such as hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia and hypocalcemia should be corrected prior to initiation of and during voriconazole injection therapy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] . Intravenous solutions containing (non-concentrated) electrolytes Voriconazole injection can be infused at the same time as other intravenous solutions containing (non-concentrated) electrolytes, but must be infused through a separate line. Total parenteral nutrition (TPN) Voriconazole injection can be infused at the same time as total parenteral nutrition, but must be infused in a separate line. If infused through a multiple-lumen catheter, TPN needs to be administered using a different port from the one used for voriconazole injection. [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Table 1: Recommended Dosing Regimen (Adults) Infection Loading Dose Maintenance Dose * Intravenous infusion Intravenous infusion Invasive Aspergillosis † 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 4 mg/kg every 12 hours Candidemia in nonneutropenic patients and other deep tissue Candida infections 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 34 mg/kg every 12 hours ‡ Esophageal Candidiasis Not Evaluated § Not Evaluated § Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 4 mg/kg every 12 hours *Increase dose when voriconazole is co-administered with phenytoin or efavirenz (7); Decrease dose in patients with hepatic impairment (2.5) †In a clinical study of IA, the median duration of intravenous voriconazole therapy was 10 days (range 2 to 85 days). ‡In clinical trials, patients with candidemia received 3 mg/kg intravenous infusion every 12 hours as primary therapy, while patients with other deep tissue Candida infections received 4 mg/kg every 12 hours as salvage therapy. §Not evaluated in patients with EC. Method for Adjusting the Dosing Regimen in Adults If patient is unable to tolerate 4 mg/kg intravenously every 12 hours, reduce the intravenous maintenance dose to 3 mg/kg every 12 hours. For pediatric patients 12 to 14 years of age with a body weight greater than or equal to 50 kg and those 15 years of age and above regardless of body weight, administer the adult dosing regimen of voriconazole injection [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . Table 2: Recommended Dosing Regimen for Pediatric Patients 2 to less than 12 years of age and 12 to 14 years of age with body weight less than 50 kg * Infection Loading Dose Maintenance Dose Intravenous infusion Intravenous infusion Invasive Aspergillosis † 9 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 8 mg/kg every 12 hours after the first 24 hours Candidemia in nonneutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections ‡ Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis Esophageal Candidiasis ‡ Not Evaluated 4 mg/kg every 12 hours *Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis in 112 immunocompromised pediatric patients aged 2 to less than 12 years of age and 26 immunocompromised pediatric patients aged 12 to less than 17 years of age. †In the Phase 3 clinical trials, patients with IA received intravenous (IV) treatment for at least 6 weeks and up to a maximum of 12 weeks. ‡Study treatment for primary or salvage invasive candidiasis and candidemia (ICC) or EC consisted of intravenous voriconazole, with an option to switch to oral therapy after at least 5 days of IV therapy, based on subjects meeting switch criteria. 2.7 Dosage Adjustment When Coadministered With Phenytoin or Efavirenz The maintenance dose of voriconazole should be increased when co-administered with phenytoin or efavirenz. 2.8 Preparation and Intravenous Administration of Voriconazole Injection Dilution Voriconazole injection must be infused over 1 to 3 hours, at a concentration of 5 mg/mL or less. Therefore, the required volume of the 10 mg/mL voriconazole injection concentrate should be further diluted as follows (appropriate diluents listed below): Calculate the volume of 10 mg/mL voriconazole injection concentrate required based on the patient's weight (see Table 3). In order to allow the required volume of voriconazole injection concentrate to be added, withdraw and discard at least an equal volume of diluent from the infusion bag or bottle to be used. The volume of diluent remaining in the bag or bottle should be such that when the 10 mg/mL voriconazole injection concentrate is added, the final concentration is not less than 0.5 mg/mL nor greater than 5 mg/mL. Using a suitable size syringe and aseptic technique, withdraw the required volume of voriconazole injection concentrate from the appropriate number of vials and add to the infusion bag or bottle. The final voriconazole injection solution must be infused over 1 to 3 hours at a maximum rate of 3 mg/kg per hour. Table 3: Required Volumes of 10 mg/mL Voriconazole Injection Concentrate Body Weight (kg) Volume of Voriconazole Injection Concentrate (10 mg/mL) required for: 3 mg/kg dose (number of vials) 4 mg/kg dose (number of vials) 6 mg/kg dose (number of vials) 8 mg/kg dose (number of vials) 9 mg/kg dose (number of vials) 10 - 4 mL (1) - 8 mL (1) 9 mL (1) 15 - 6 mL (1) - 12 mL (1) 13.5 mL (1) 20 - 8 mL (1) - 16 mL (1) 18 mL (1) 25 - 10 mL (1) - 20 mL (1) 22.5 mL (2) 30 9 mL (1) 12 mL (1) 18 mL (1) 24 mL (2) 27 mL (2) 35 10.5 mL (1) 14 mL (1) 21 mL (2) 28 mL (2) 31.5 mL (2) 40 12 mL (1) 16 mL (1) 24 mL (2) 32 mL (2) 36 mL (2) 45 13.5 mL (1) 18 mL (1) 27 mL (2) 36 mL (2) 40.5 mL (3) 50 15 mL (1) 20 mL (1) 30 mL (2) 40 mL (2) 45 mL (3) 55 16.5 mL (1) 22 mL (2) 33 mL (2) 44 mL (3) 49.5 mL (3) 60 18 mL (1) 24 mL (2) 36 mL (2) 48 mL (3) 54 mL (3) 65 19.5 mL (1) 26 mL (2) 39 mL (2) 52 mL (3) 58.5 mL (3) 70 21 mL (2) 28 mL (2) 42 mL (3) - - 75 22.5 mL (2) 30 mL (2) 45 mL (3) - - 80 24 mL (2) 32 mL (2) 48 mL (3) - - 85 25.5 mL (2) 34 mL (2) 51 mL (3) - - 90 27 mL (2) 36 mL (2) 54 mL (3) - - 95 28.5 mL (2) 38 mL (2) 57 mL (3) - - 100 30 mL (2) 40 mL (2) 60 mL (3) - - Voriconazole injection is a single-dose unpreserved sterile lyophile. Therefore, from a microbiological point of view, once opened, the product should be used immediately. The reconstituted solution can be diluted with: 0.9% Sodium Chloride USP Lactated Ringers USP 5% Dextrose and Lactated Ringers USP 5% Dextrose and 0.45% Sodium Chloride USP 5% Dextrose USP 5% Dextrose and 20 mEq Potassium Chloride USP 0.45% Sodium Chloride USP 5% Dextrose and 0.9% Sodium Chloride USP The compatibility of voriconazole injection with diluents other than those described above is unknown (see Incompatibilities below). Incompatibilities Voriconazole injection must not be diluted with 4.2% Sodium Bicarbonate Infusion. The mildly alkaline nature of this diluent caused slight degradation of voriconazole injection after 24 hours storage at room temperature. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage in Adults ( 2.3 ) Infection Loading Dose Maintenance Dose Intravenous infusion Intravenous infusion Oral Invasive Aspergillosis 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours Candidemia in nonneutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections 3-4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours Esophageal Candidiasis Not Evaluated Not Evaluated 200 mg every 12 hours Adult patients weighing less than 40 kg: oral maintenance dose 100 mg or 150 mg every 12 hours Hepatic Impairment: Use half the maintenance dose in adult patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A and B) ( 2.5 ) Renal Impairment: Avoid intravenous administration in adult patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 50 mL/min) ( 2.6 ) Dosage in Pediatric Patients 2 Years of Age and Older ( 2.4 ) For pediatric patients 2 to less than 12 years of age and 12 to 14 years of age weighing less than 50 kg see Table below. Infection Loading Dose Maintenance Dose Intravenous infusion Intravenous infusion Oral Invasive Aspergillosis 9 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 8 mg/kg every 12 hours after the first 24 hours 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) Candidemia in nonneutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis Esophageal Candidiasis Not Evaluated 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) For pediatric patients aged 12 to 14 years weighing greater than or equal to 50 kg and those aged 15 years and older regardless of body weight use adult dosage. Table 1: Recommended Dosing Regimen (Adults) Infection Loading Dose Maintenance Dose Increase dose when voriconazole is co-administered with phenytoin or efavirenz ( 7); Decrease dose in patients with hepatic impairment ( 2.5) In healthy volunteer studies, the 200 mg oral every 12 hours dose provided an exposure (AUC τ) similar to a 3 mg/kg intravenous infusion every 12 hours dose; the 300 mg oral every 12 hours dose provided an exposure (AUC τ) similar to a 4 mg/kg intravenous infusion every 12 hours dose ( 12). Intravenous infusion Intravenous infusion Oral Adult patients who weigh less than 40 kg should receive half of the oral maintenance dose. Invasive Aspergillosis In a clinical study of IA, the median duration of intravenous voriconazole therapy was 10 days (range 2 to 85 days). 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours Candidemia in nonneutropenic patients and other deep tissue Candida infections 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 3-4 mg/kg every 12 hours In clinical trials, patients with candidemia received 3 mg/kg intravenous infusion every 12 hours as primary therapy, while patients with other deep tissue Candida infections received 4 mg/kg every 12 hours as salvage therapy. 200 mg every 12 hours Esophageal Candidiasis Not Evaluated Not evaluated in patients with EC. Not Evaluated 200 mg every 12 hours Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours Method for Adjusting the Dosing Regimen in Adults If patient’s response is inadequate, the oral maintenance dose may be increased from 200 mg every 12 hours (similar to 3 mg/kg intravenously every 12 hours) to 300 mg every 12 hours (similar to 4 mg/kg intravenously every 12 hours). For pediatric patients 12 to 14 years of age with a body weight greater than or equal to 50 kg and those 15 years of age and above regardless of body weight, administer the adult dosing regimen of voriconazole tablets [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . Loading Dose Maintenance Dose Intravenous infusion Intravenous infusion Oral Invasive Aspergillosis In the Phase 3 clinical trials, patients with IA received intravenous (IV) treatment for at least 6 weeks and up to a maximum of 12 weeks. 9 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 8 mg/kg every 12 hours after the first 24 hours 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) Candidemia in nonneutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections Study treatment for primary or salvage invasive candidiasis and candidemia (ICC) or EC consisted of intravenous voriconazole, with an option to switch to oral therapy after at least 5 days of IV therapy, based on subjects meeting switch criteria. Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis Espophageal Candidiasis Not Evaluated 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) Initiate therapy with an intravenous infusion regimen. 2.5 Dosage Modifications in Patients With Hepatic Impairment Adults The maintenance dose of voriconazole tablets should be reduced in adult patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment, Child-Pugh Class A and B. Voriconazole tablets have not been studied in adult patients with severe hepatic cirrhosis (Child-Pugh Class C) or in patients with chronic hepatitis B or chronic hepatitis C disease. Voriconazole tablets have been associated with elevations in liver function tests and with clinical signs of liver damage, such as jaundice. Pediatric Patients Dosage adjustment of voriconazole tablets in pediatric patients with hepatic impairment has not been established [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . In patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 50 mL/min) who are receiving an intravenous infusion of voriconazole, accumulation of the intravenous vehicle, SBECD, occurs. Pediatric Patients Dosage adjustment of voriconazole tablets in pediatric patients with renal impairment has not been established [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Dosage in Adults ( 2.3 ) Infection Maintenance Dose Oral tablets Invasive Aspergillosis 200 mg every 12 hours Candidemia in nonneutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections 200 mg every 12 hours Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis 200 mg every 12 hours Esophageal Candidiasis 200 mg every 12 hours • Adult patients weighing less than 40 kg: oral maintenance dose 100 mg or 150 mg every 12 hours • Hepatic Impairment: Use half the maintenance dose in adult patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A and B) ( 2.5 ) • Renal Impairment: Avoid intravenous administration in adult patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <50 mL/min) ( 2.6 ) • Dosage in Pediatric Patients 2 years of age and older ( 2.4 ) o For pediatric patients 2 to less than 12 years of age and 12 to 14 years of age weighing less than 50 kg see Table below. Infection Maintenance Dose Oral tablets Invasive Aspergillosis 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) Candidemia in nonneutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis Esophageal Candidiasis 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) o For pediatric patients aged 12 to 14 years weighing greater than or equal to 50 kg and those aged 15 years and older regardless of body weight use adult dosage. ( 2.4 ) o Dosage adjustment of voriconazole in pediatric patients with renal or hepatic impairment has not been established ( 2.5 , 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions for Use in All Patients Administer voriconazole tablets at least one hour before or after a meal. The recommended oral maintenance dose of 200 mg achieves a voriconazole exposure similar to 3 mg/kg intravenously; a 300 mg oral dose achieves an exposure similar to 4 mg/kg intravenously [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Table 1: Recommended Dosing Regimen (Adults) Infection Loading Dose Maintenance Dose a , b Intravenous infusion Intravenous infusion Oral tablets c Invasive Aspergillosis d 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours Candidemia in nonneutropenic patients and other deep tissue Candida infections 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 3 to 4 mg/kg every 12 hours e 200 mg every 12 hours Esophageal Candidiasis Not Evaluated f Not Evaluated f 200 mg every 12 hours Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis 6 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 200 mg every 12 hours a Increase dose when voriconazole is coadministered with phenytoin or efavirenz ( 7 ); Decrease dose in patients with hepatic impairment ( 2.5 ) b In healthy volunteer studies, the 200 mg oral every 12 hours dose provided an exposure (AUCτ) similar to a 3 mg/kg intravenous infusion every 12 hours dose; the 300 mg oral every 12 hours dose provided an exposure (AUCτ) similar to a 4 mg/kg intravenous infusion every 12 hours dose ( 12 ). Method for Adjusting the Dosing Regimen in Adults • If the patient's response is inadequate, the oral maintenance dose may be increased from 200 mg every 12 hours to 300 mg every 12 hours. • For adult patients weighing less than 40 kg, the oral maintenance dose may be increased from 100 mg every 12 hours to 150 mg every 12 hours. • If the patient is unable to tolerate 300 mg orally every 12 hours, reduce the oral maintenance dose by 50 mg steps to a minimum of 200 mg every 12 hours for adult patients weighing more than 40 kg or to 100 mg every 12 hours for adult patients weighing less than 40 kg. For pediatric patients 12 to 14 years of age with a body weight greater than or equal to 50 kg and those 15 years of age and above regardless of body weight, administer the adult dosing regimen of voriconazole [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] . Table 2: Recommended Dosing Regimen for Pediatric Patients 2 to less than 12 years of age and 12 to 14 years of age with body weight less than 50 kg ^ Loading Dose Maintenance Dose Intravenous infusion Intravenous infusion Oral tablets Invasive Aspergillosis * 9 mg/kg every 12 hours for the first 24 hours 8 mg/kg every 12 hours after the first 24 hours 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) Candidemia in nonneutropenics and other deep tissue Candida infections † Scedosporiosis and Fusariosis Esophageal Candidiasis † Not Evaluated 4 mg/kg every 12 hours 9 mg/kg every 12 hours (maximum dose of 350 mg every 12 hours) ^ Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis in 112 immunocompromised pediatric patients aged 2 to less than 12 years of age and 26 immunocompromised pediatric patients aged 12 to less than 17 years of age. Pediatric Patients Dosage adjustment of voriconazole in pediatric patients with renal impairment has not been established [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )]. Use the optimal method for titrating dosage [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )].
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • VFEND is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to voriconazole or its excipients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) and Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2) ] . There is no information regarding cross-sensitivity between VFEND and other azole antifungal agents. Refer to the prescribing information for other azole antifungal agents. • Concomittant use of VFEND with the interacting drugs described and listed below in this section are a guide and not considered a comprehensive list of all possible drugs that may be contraindicated with VFEND. 1. Concomitant use of VFEND is contraindicated with drugs that are highly dependent on CYP3A4 for metabolism, and for which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life‑threatening reactions [see Drug Interactions (7) ]: • Eplerenone • Ergot alkaloids (e.g., ergotamine, dihydroergotamine) • Finerenone • Ivabradine • Lurasidone • Naloxegol • Pimozide • Quinidine • Rifabutin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] • Sirolimus [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] • Tolvaptan • Venetoclax: Coadministration at initiation and during the ramp-up phase is contraindicated in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) due to the potential for increased risk of tumor lysis syndrome [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . • Voclosporin 2. Concomitant use of VFEND is contraindicated with drugs and herbal products that induce CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and/or CYP3A4 and for which significantly reduced voriconazole plasma concentrations may be associated with loss of efficacy [see Drug Interactions (7) ]: • Carbamazepine • Efavirenz Concomitant use with efavirenz dosages of 400 mg every 24 hours or higher is contraindicated [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . • Long-acting barbiturates • Rifabutin • Rifampin • Ritonavir Concomitant use with high-dose ritonavir (400 mg every 12 hours) is contraindicated. Concomitant use with low-dose ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours) should be avoided, unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of VFEND [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . • St. John’s Wort [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] • Known hypersensitivity to voriconazole or its excipients ( 4 ) • Concomitant use with drugs that are highly dependent on CYP3A4 for metabolism, and for which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life-threatening reactions ( 4 , 7 ) • Concomitant use with drugs and herbal products that induce CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and/or CYP3A4 and for which significantly reduced voriconazole plasma concentrations may be associated with loss of efficacy ( 4 , 7 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Voriconazole tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to voriconazole or its excipients. There is no information regarding cross-sensitivity between voriconazole and other azole antifungal agents. Caution should be used when prescribing voriconazole tablets to patients with hypersensitivity to other azoles. Coadministration of pimozide, quinidine or ivabradine with voriconazole tablets is contraindicated because increased plasma concentrations of these drugs can lead to QT prolongation and rare occurrences of torsade de pointes [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. Coadministration of voriconazole tablets with sirolimus is contraindicated because voriconazole tablets significantly increases sirolimus concentrations [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Coadministration of voriconazole tablets with rifampin, carbamazepine, long-acting barbiturates or St John’s Wort is contraindicated because these drugs are likely to decrease plasma voriconazole concentrations significantly [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Coadministration of standard doses of voriconazole with efavirenz doses of 400 mg every 24 hours or higher is contraindicated, because efavirenz significantly decreases plasma voriconazole concentrations in healthy subjects at these doses. Voriconazole also significantly increases efavirenz plasma concentrations [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Coadministration of voriconazole tablets with high-dose ritonavir (400 mg every 12 hours) is contraindicated because ritonavir (400 mg every 12 hours) significantly decreases plasma voriconazole concentrations. Coadministration of voriconazole and low-dose ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours) should be avoided, unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Coadministration of voriconazole tablets with rifabutin is contraindicated since voriconazole tablets significantly increases rifabutin plasma concentrations and rifabutin also significantly decreases voriconazole plasma concentrations [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Coadministration of voriconazole tablets with ergot alkaloids (ergotamine and dihydroergotamine) is contraindicated because voriconazole may increase the plasma concentration of ergot alkaloids, which may lead to ergotism [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. Coadministration of voriconazole tablets with naloxegol is contraindicated because voriconazole may increase plasma concentrations of naloxegol which may precipitate opioid withdrawal symptoms [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. Coadministration of voriconazole tablets with tolvaptan is contraindicated because voriconazole may increase tolvaptan plasma concentrations and increase risk of adverse reactions [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. Coadministration of voriconazole tablets with venetoclax at initiation and during the ramp-up phase is contraindicated in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) due to the potential for increased risk of tumor lysis syndrome [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. Coadministration of voriconazole tablets with lurasidone is contraindicated since it may result in significant increases in lurasidone exposure and the potential for serious adverse reactions [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. Coadministration of voriconazole tablets with finerenone is contraindicated since it may result in significant increases in finerenone exposure and the potential for serious adverse reactions [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. Hypersensitivity to voriconazole or its excipients ( 4 ) Coadministration with pimozide, quinidine, sirolimus or ivabradine due to risk of serious adverse reactions ( 4 , 7 ) Coadministration with rifampin, carbamazepine, long-acting barbiturates, efavirenz, ritonavir, rifabutin, ergot alkaloids or St. John’s Wort due to risk of loss of efficacy ( 4 , 7 ) Coadministration with naloxegol, tolvaptan, lurasidone or finerenone due to risk of adverse reactions ( 4 , 7 ) Coadministration of voriconazole tablets with venetoclax at initiation and during the ramp-up phase in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) due to increased risk of adverse reactions ( 4 , 7 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Voriconazole is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to voriconazole or its excipients. Caution should be used when prescribing voriconazole to patients with hypersensitivity to other azoles. Coadministration of pimozide, quinidine or ivabradine with voriconazole is contraindicated because increased plasma concentrations of these drugs can lead to QT prolongation and rare occurrences of torsade de pointes [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Coadministration of voriconazole with sirolimus is contraindicated because voriconazole significantly increases sirolimus concentrations [see Drug Interactions (7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Coadministration of voriconazole with rifampin, carbamazepine, long-acting barbiturates and St John's Wort is contraindicated because these drugs are likely to decrease plasma voriconazole concentrations significantly [see Drug Interactions (7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Voriconazole also significantly increases efavirenz plasma concentrations [see Drug Interactions (7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Coadministration of voriconazole with high-dose ritonavir (400 mg every 12 hours) is contraindicated because ritonavir (400 mg every 12 hours) significantly decreases plasma voriconazole concentrations. Coadministration of voriconazole and low-dose ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours) should be avoided, unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole [see Drug Interactions (7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Coadministration of voriconazole with rifabutin is contraindicated since voriconazole significantly increases rifabutin plasma concentrations and rifabutin also significantly decreases voriconazole plasma concentrations [see Drug Interactions (7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Coadministration of voriconazole with ergot alkaloids (ergotamine and dihydroergotamine) is contraindicated because voriconazole may increase the plasma concentration of ergot alkaloids, which may lead to ergotism [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Coadministration of voriconazole with naloxegol is contraindicated because voriconazole may increase plasma concentrations of naloxegol which may precipitate opioid withdrawal symptoms [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Coadministration of voriconazole with tolvaptan is contraindicated because voriconazole may increase tolvaptan plasma concentrations and increase risk of adverse reactions [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Coadministration of voriconazole with venetoclax at initiation and during the ramp-up phase is contraindicated in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) due to the potential for increased risk of tumor lysis syndrome [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Coadministration of voriconazole with lurasidone is contraindicated since it may result in significant increases in lurasidone exposure and the potential for serious adverse reactions [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Hypersensitivity to voriconazole or its excipients ( 4 ) Coadministration with pimozide, quinidine, sirolimus or ivabradine due to risk of serious adverse reactions ( 4 , 7 ) Coadministration with rifampin, carbamazepine, long-acting barbiturates, efavirenz, ritonavir, rifabutin, ergot alkaloids, and St. John’s Wort due to risk of loss of efficacy ( 4 , 7 ) Coadministration with naloxegol, tolvaptan, and lurasidone due to risk of adverse reactions ( 4 , 7 ) Coadministration of voriconazole with venetoclax at initiation and during the ramp-up phase in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) due to increased risk of adverse reactions ( 4 , 7 ) Coadministration of pimozide, quinidine or ivabradine with voriconazole is contraindicated because increased plasma concentrations of these drugs can lead to QT prolongation and rare occurrences of torsade de pointes [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . Coadministration of voriconazole with sirolimus is contraindicated because voriconazole for injection significantly increases sirolimus concentrations [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Coadministration of voriconazole with rifampin, carbamazepine, long-acting barbiturates, and St John's Wort is contraindicated because these drugs are likely to decrease plasma voriconazole concentrations significantly [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Voriconazole also significantly increases efavirenz plasma concentrations [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Coadministration of voriconazole and low-dose ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours) should be avoided, unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Coadministration of voriconazole with rifabutin is contraindicated since voriconazole significantly increases rifabutin plasma concentrations and rifabutin also significantly decreases voriconazole plasma concentrations [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Coadministration of voriconazole with ergot alkaloids (ergotamine and dihydroergotamine) is contraindicated because voriconazole may increase the plasma concentration of ergot alkaloids, which may lead to ergotism [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . Coadministration of voriconazole with naloxegol is contraindicated because voriconazole may increase plasma concentrations of naloxegol which may precipitate opioid withdrawal symptoms [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . Coadministration of voriconazole with tolvaptan is contraindicated because voriconazole may increase tolvaptan plasma concentrations and increase risk of adverse reactions [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . Coadministration of voriconazole with venetoclax at initiation and during the ramp-up phase is contraindicated in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) due to the potential for increased risk of tumor lysis syndrome [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . Coadministration of voriconazole with lurasidone is contraindicated since it may result in significant increases in lurasidone exposure and the potential for serious adverse reactions [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . John's Wort due to risk of loss of efficacy ( 4 , 7 ) Coadministration with naloxegol, tolvaptan, and lurasidone due to risk of adverse reactions ( 4 , 7 ) Coadministration of voriconazole with venetoclax at initiation and during the ramp-up phase in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) due to increased risk of adverse reactions ( 4 , 7 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Voriconazole for Oral Suspension is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to voriconazole or its excipients. Coadministration of voriconazole with sirolimus is contraindicated because voriconazole significantly increases sirolimus concentrations [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Coadministration of voriconazole with rifampin, carbamazepine, long-acting barbiturates, or St John’s Wort is contraindicated because these drugs are likely to decrease plasma voriconazole concentrations significantly [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Coadministration of voriconazole with finerenone is contraindicated since it may result in significant increases in finerenone exposure and the potential for serious adverse reactions [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] Hypersensitivity to voriconazole or its excipients ( 4 ) Coadministration with pimozide, quinidine, sirolimus or ivabradine due to risk of serious adverse reactions ( 4 , 7 ) Coadministration with rifampin, carbamazepine, long-acting barbiturates, efavirenz, ritonavir, rifabutin, ergot alkaloids, or St. John’s Wort due to risk of loss of efficacy ( 4 , 7 ) Coadministration with naloxegol, tolvaptan, lurasidone or finerenone due to risk of adverse reactions ( 4 , 7 ) Coadministration of voriconazole with venetoclax at initiation and during the ramp-up phase in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) due to increased risk of adverse reactions ( 4 , 7 ) Coadministration of cisapride, pimozide, quinidine or ivabradine with voriconazole is contraindicated because increased plasma concentrations of these drugs can lead to QT prolongation and rare occurrences of torsade de pointes [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Coadministration of voriconazole with rifampin, carbamazepine, long-acting barbiturates, and St. John’s Wort is contraindicated because these drugs are likely to decrease plasma voriconazole concentrations significantly [see Drug Interactions (7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Coadministration of voriconazole with rifabutin is contraindicated since voriconazole significantly increases rifabutin plasma concentrations and rifabutin also significantly decreases voriconazole plasma concentrations [see Drug Interactions (7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Coadministration of voriconazole with naloxegol is contraindicated because voriconazole may increase plasma concentrations of naloxegol which may precipitate opioid withdrawal symptoms [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Coadministration of voriconazole with tolvaptan is contraindicated because voriconazole may increase tolvaptan plasma concentrations and increase risk of adverse reactions [see Drug Interactions(7) ] . Coadministration of voriconazole with venetoclax at initiation and during the ramp-up phase is contraindicated in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) due to the potential for increased risk of tumor lysis syndrome [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. Hypersensitivity to voriconazole or its excipients ( 4 ) Coadministration with cisapride, pimozide, quinidine, sirolimus or ivabradine due to risk of serious adverse reactions ( 4 , 7 ) Coadministration with rifampin, carbamazepine, long-acting barbiturates, efavirenz, ritonavir, rifabutin, ergot alkaloids, and St. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Voriconazole is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to voriconazole or its excipients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) and Adverse Reactions (6.1 , 6.2) ] . • Concomittant use of voriconazole with the interacting drugs described and listed below in this section are a guide and not considered a comprehensive list of all possible drugs that may be contraindicated with voriconazole. Concomitant use of voriconazole is contraindicated with drugs that are highly dependent on CYP3A4 for metabolism, and for which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life‑threatening reactions [see Drug Interactions (7) ] : • Eplerenone • Ergot alkaloids (e.g., ergotamine, dihydroergotamine) • Finerenone • Ivabradine • Lurasidone • Naloxegol • Pimozide • Quinidine • Rifabutin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] • Sirolimus [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] • Tolvaptan • Venetoclax: Coadministration at initiation and during the ramp-up phase is contraindicated in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) due to the potential for increased risk of tumor lysis syndrome [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Concomitant use of voriconazole is contraindicated with drugs and herbal products that induce CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and/or CYP3A4 and for which significantly reduced voriconazole plasma concentrations may be associated with loss of efficacy [see Drug Interactions (7) ] : • Carbamazepine • Efavirenz Concomitant use with efavirenz dosages of 400 mg every 24 hours or higher is contraindicated [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Concomitant use with low-dose ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours) should be avoided, unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] • St. John’s Wort [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] Known hypersensitivity to voriconazole or its excipients ( 4 ) Concomitant use with drugs that are highly dependent on CYP3A4 for metabolism, and for which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life-threatening reactions ( 4 , 7 ) Concomitant use with drugs and herbal products that induce CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and/or CYP3A4 and for which significantly reduced voriconazole plasma concentrations may be associated with loss of efficacy ( 4 , 7 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Voriconazole tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to voriconazole or their excipients. Coadministration of pimozide, quinidine or ivabradine with voriconazole tablets is contraindicated because increased plasma concentrations of these drugs can lead to QT prolongation and rare occurrences of torsade de pointes [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Coadministration of voriconazole tablets with sirolimus is contraindicated because voriconazole tablets significantly increase sirolimus concentrations [see Drug Interactions (7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Coadministration of voriconazole tablets with rifampin, carbamazepine, long-acting barbiturates, and St. Coadministration of voriconazole tablets with rifabutin is contraindicated since voriconazole tablets significantly increase rifabutin plasma concentrations and rifabutin also significantly decreases voriconazole plasma concentrations [see Drug Interactions (7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Coadministration of voriconazole tablets with ergot alkaloids (ergotamine and dihydroergotamine) is contraindicated because voriconazole tablets may increase the plasma concentration of ergot alkaloids, which may lead to ergotism [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Coadministration of voriconazole tablets with naloxegol is contraindicated because voriconazole tablets may increase plasma concentrations of naloxegol which may precipitate opioid withdrawal symptoms [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Coadministration of voriconazole tablets with tolvaptan is contraindicated because voriconazole tablets may increase tolvaptan plasma concentrations and increase risk of adverse reactions [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Coadministration of voriconazole tablets with venetoclax at initiation and during the ramp-up phase is contraindicated in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) due to the potential for increased risk of tumor lysis syndrome [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Coadministration of voriconazole tablets with lurasidone is contraindicated since it may result in significant increases in lurasidone exposure and the potential for serious adverse reactions [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Voriconazole tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to voriconazole or its excipients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 , 6.2 )] . Concomitant use of voriconazole is contraindicated with drugs that are highly dependent on CYP3A4 for metabolism, and for which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life-threatening reactions [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] : o Eplerenone o Ergot alkaloids (e.g., ergotamine, dihydroergotamine) o Finerenone o Ivabradine o Lurasidone o Naloxegol o Pimozide o Quinidine o Rifabutin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] o Sirolimus [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] o Tolvaptan o Venetoclax: Coadministration at initiation and during the ramp-up phase is contraindicated in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) due to the potential for increased risk of tumor lysis syndrome [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . o Voclosporin 2. Concomitant use of voriconazole is contraindicated with drugs and herbal products that induce CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and/or CYP3A4 and for which significantly reduced voriconazole plasma concentrations may be associated with loss of efficacy [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] : o Carbamazepine o Efavirenz Concomitant use with efavirenz dosages of 400 mg every 24 hours or higher is contraindicated [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . o Long-acting barbiturates o Rifabutin o Rifampin o Ritonavir Concomitant use with high-dose ritonavir (400 mg every 12 hours) is contraindicated. Concomitant use with low-dose ritonavir (100 mg every 12hours) should be avoided, unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] o St. John's Wort [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] • Known hypersensitivity to voriconazole or its excipients ( 4 ) • Concomitant use with drugs that are highly dependent on CYP3A4 for metabolism, and for which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life-threatening reactions ( 4 , 7 ) • Concomitant use with drugs and herbal products that induce CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and/or CYP3A4 and for which significantly reduced voriconazole plasma concentrations may be associated with loss of efficacy ( 4 , 7 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Voriconazole is metabolized by cytochrome P450 isoenzymes, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP3A4. Therefore, inhibitors or inducers of these isoenzymes may increase or decrease voriconazole plasma concentrations, respectively. Voriconazole is a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4, and also inhibits CYP2C19 and CYP2C9. Therefore, voriconazole may increase the plasma concentrations of substances metabolized by these CYP450 isoenzymes. Table 10 and Table 11 provide listings of clinically significant drug interactions, including contraindicated drugs [see Contraindications (4) ] . Drugs listed in Table 10 and Table 11 are a guide and not considered a comprehensive list of all possible drugs and herbal products that are contraindicated or may interact with VFEND. Table 10: Effect of Other Drugs on Voriconazole Pharmacokinetics [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] Drug/Drug Class (Mechanism of Interaction by the Drug) Voriconazole Plasma Exposure (C max and AUC τ after 200 mg every 12 hours) Prevention or Management Recommendations Rifampin Results based on in vivo clinical studies generally following repeat oral dosing with 200 mg every 12 hours voriconazole to healthy subjects and Rifabutin (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Contraindicated Efavirenz (400 mg every 24 hours) Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for at least 2 days voriconazole to healthy subjects (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Contraindicated Efavirenz (300 mg every 24 hours) (CYP450 Induction) Slight Decrease in AUC τ When voriconazole is concomitantly administered with efavirenz, voriconazole oral maintenance dose should be increased to 400 mg every 12 hours and efavirenz should be decreased to 300 mg every 24 hours. High-dose Ritonavir (400 mg every 12 hours) (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Contraindicated Low-dose Ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours) (CYP450 Induction) Reduced Concomitant administration of voriconazole and low-dose ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours) should be avoided, unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole. Carbamazepine (CYP450 Induction) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Likely to Result in Significant Reduction Contraindicated Long Acting Barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital, mephobarbital) (CYP450 Induction) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Likely to Result in Significant Reduction Contraindicated Phenytoin (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Increase voriconazole maintenance dose from 4 mg/kg to 5 mg/kg IV every 12 hours or from 200 mg to 400 mg orally every 12 hours (100 mg to 200 mg orally every 12 hours in patients weighing less than 40 kg). Letermovir (CYP2C9/2C19 Induction) Reduced If concomitant administration of voriconazole with letermovir cannot be avoided, monitor for reduced effectiveness of voriconazole. St. John's Wort (CYP450 inducer; P-gp inducer) Significantly Reduced Contraindicated Oral Contraceptives containing ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone (CYP2C19 Inhibition) Increased Monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to voriconazole is recommended for concomitant administration with oral contraceptives. Fluconazole (CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Avoid concomitant administration of voriconazole and fluconazole. Monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to voriconazole is started within 24 hours after the last dose of fluconazole. Other HIV Protease Inhibitors (CYP3A4 Inhibition) In Vivo Studies Showed No Significant Effects of Indinavir on Voriconazole Exposure In Vitro Studies Demonstrated Potential for Inhibition of Voriconazole Metabolism (Increased Plasma Exposure) No dosage adjustment in the voriconazole dosage needed for concomitant administration with indinavir. Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to voriconazole for concomitant administration with other HIV protease inhibitors. Other NNRTIs Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (CYP3A4 Inhibition or CYP450 Induction) In Vitro Studies Demonstrated Potential for Inhibition of Voriconazole Metabolism by Delavirdine and Other NNRTIs (Increased Plasma Exposure) Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to voriconazole. A Voriconazole-Efavirenz Drug Interaction Study Demonstrated the Potential for the Metabolism of Voriconazole to be Induced by Efavirenz and Other NNRTIs (Decreased Plasma Exposure) Careful assessment of voriconazole effectiveness. Table 11: Effect of Voriconazole on Pharmacokinetics of Other Drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] Drug/Drug Class (Mechanism of Interaction by Voriconazole) Drug Plasma Exposure (C max and AUC τ ) Prevention or Management Recommendations Sirolimus Results based on in vivo clinical studies generally following repeat oral dosing with 200 mg BID voriconazole to healthy subjects (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Contraindicated Rifabutin (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Contraindicated Efavirenz (400 mg every 24 hours) Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for at least 2 days voriconazole to healthy subjects (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Contraindicated Efavirenz (300 mg every 24 hours) (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Slight Increase in AUC τ When voriconazole is concomitantly administered with efavirenz, voriconazole oral maintenance dose should be increased to 400 mg every 12 hours and efavirenz should be decreased to 300 mg every 24 hours. High-dose Ritonavir (400 mg every 12 hours) (CYP3A4 Inhibition) No Significant Effect of Voriconazole on Ritonavir C max or AUC τ Contraindicated because of significant reduction of voriconazole C max and AUC τ. Low-dose Ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours) Slight Decrease in Ritonavir C max and AUC τ Concomitant administration of voriconazole and low-dose ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours) should be avoided (due to the reduction in voriconazole C max and AUC τ ) unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole. Pimozide, Quinidine, Ivabradine (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased Contraindicated because of potential for QT prolongation and rare occurrence of torsade de pointes. Ergot Alkaloids (CYP450 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased Contraindicated Naloxegol (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased which may Increase the Risk of Adverse Reactions Contraindicated Tolvaptan (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Although Not Studied Clinically, Voriconazole is Likely to Significantly Increase the Plasma Concentrations of Tolvaptan Contraindicated Lurasidone (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Voriconazole is Likely to Significantly Increase the Plasma Concentrations of Lurasidone Contraindicated Finerenone (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Voriconazole is Likely to Significantly Increase the Plasma Concentrations of Finerenone Contraindicated Eplerenone (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Voriconazole is Likely to Significantly Increase the Plasma Concentrations of Eplerenone Contraindicated Voclosporin (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Voriconazole is Likely to Significantly Increase the Plasma Concentrations of Voclosporin Contraindicated Venetoclax (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Venetoclax Plasma Exposure Likely to be Significantly Increased Concomitant administration of voriconazole is contraindicated at initiation and during the ramp-up phase in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL). Refer to the venetoclax labeling for safety monitoring and dose reduction in the steady daily dosing phase in CLL/SLL patients. For patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), dose reduction and safety monitoring are recommended across all dosing phases when concomitantly administered VFEND with venetoclax. Refer to the venetoclax prescribing information for dosing instructions. Lemborexant (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased Avoid concomitant use of VFEND with lemborexant. Glasdegib (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased Consider alternative therapies. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor patients for increased risk of adverse reactions including QTc interval prolongation. Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (including but not limited to axitinib, bosutinib, cabozantinib, ceritinib, cobimetinib, dabrafenib, dasatinib, nilotinib, sunitinib, ibrutinib, ribociclib) (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased Avoid concomitant use of VFEND. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, dose reduction of the tyrosine kinase inhibitor is recommended. Refer to the prescribing information for the relevant product. Cyclosporine (CYP3A4 Inhibition) AUC τ Significantly Increased; No Significant Effect on C max When initiating therapy with VFEND in patients already receiving cyclosporine, reduce the cyclosporine dose to one-half of the starting dose and follow with frequent monitoring of cyclosporine blood levels. Increased cyclosporine levels have been associated with nephrotoxicity. When VFEND is discontinued, cyclosporine concentrations must be frequently monitored and the dose increased as necessary. Methadone Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for 4 days voriconazole to subjects receiving a methadone maintenance dose (30–100 mg every 24 hours) (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Increased Increased plasma concentrations of methadone have been associated with toxicity including QT prolongation. Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to methadone is recommended when concomitantly administered with VFEND. Dose reduction of methadone may be needed. Fentanyl (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Increased Reduction in the dose of fentanyl and other long-acting opiates metabolized by CYP3A4 should be considered when concomitantly administered with VFEND. Extended and frequent monitoring for opiate-associated adverse reactions may be necessary . Alfentanil (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased An increase in the incidence of delayed and persistent alfentanil-associated nausea and vomiting were observed when concomitantly administered with VFEND. Reduction in the dose of alfentanil and other opiates metabolized by CYP3A4 (e.g., sufentanil) should be considered when concomitantly administered with VFEND. A longer period for monitoring respiratory and other opiate-associated adverse reactions may be necessary. Oxycodone (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Increased visual effects (heterophoria and miosis) of oxycodone were observed when concomitantly administered with VFEND. Reduction in the dose of oxycodone and other long-acting opiates metabolized by CYP3A4 should be considered when concomitantly administered with VFEND. Extended and frequent monitoring for opiate-associated adverse reactions may be necessary. NSAIDs Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug including. ibuprofen and diclofenac (CYP2C9 Inhibition) Increased Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to NSAIDs. Dose reduction of NSAIDs may be needed. Tacrolimus (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased When initiating therapy with VFEND in patients already receiving tacrolimus, reduce the tacrolimus dose to one-third of the starting dose and follow with frequent monitoring of tacrolimus blood levels. Increased tacrolimus levels have been associated with nephrotoxicity. When VFEND is discontinued, tacrolimus concentrations must be frequently monitored and the dose increased as necessary. Phenytoin (CYP2C9 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Frequent monitoring of phenytoin plasma concentrations and frequent monitoring of adverse effects related to phenytoin. Oral Contraceptives containing ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Increased Monitoring for adverse reactions related to oral contraceptives is recommended during concomitant administration. Prednisolone and other corticosteroids (CYP3A4 Inhibition) In Vivo Studies Showed No Significant Effects of VFEND on Prednisolone Exposure Not Studied In Vitro or In vivo for Other Corticosteroids, but Drug Exposure Likely to be Increased No dosage adjustment for prednisolone when concomitantly administered with VFEND [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Monitor for potential adrenal dysfunction when VFEND is administered with other corticosteroids [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Warfarin (CYP2C9 Inhibition) Prothrombin Time Significantly Increased If patients receiving coumarin preparations are treated simultaneously with voriconazole, the prothrombin time or other suitable anticoagulation tests should be monitored at close intervals and the dosage of anticoagulants adjusted accordingly. Other Oral Coumarin Anticoagulants (CYP2C9/3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro for other Oral Coumarin Anticoagulants, but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased Ivacaftor (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased which may Increase the Risk of Adverse Reactions Dose reduction of ivacaftor is recommended. Refer to the prescribing information for ivacaftor. Eszopiclone (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased which may Increase the Sedative Effect of Eszopiclone Dose reduction of eszopiclone is recommended. Refer to the prescribing information for eszopiclone. Mavacamten (CYP2C19/3A4/2C9 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Mavacamten Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased which may Increase the Risk of Heart Failure Refer to the prescribing information for mavacamten. Omeprazole (CYP2C19/3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased When initiating therapy with VFEND in patients already receiving omeprazole doses of 40 mg or greater, reduce the omeprazole dose by one-half. The metabolism of other proton pump inhibitors that are CYP2C19 substrates may also be inhibited by voriconazole and may result in increased plasma concentrations of other proton pump inhibitors. Other HIV Protease Inhibitors (CYP3A4 Inhibition) In Vivo Studies Showed No Significant Effects on Indinavir Exposure In Vitro Studies Demonstrated Potential for Voriconazole to Inhibit Metabolism (Increased Plasma Exposure) No dosage adjustment for indinavir when concomitantly administered with VFEND. Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to other HIV protease inhibitors. Other NNRTIs Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (CYP3A4 Inhibition) A Voriconazole-Efavirenz Drug Interaction Study Demonstrated the Potential for Voriconazole to Inhibit Metabolism of Other NNRTIs (Increased Plasma Exposure) Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to NNRTI. Tretinoin (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Although Not Studied, Voriconazole may Increase Tretinoin Concentrations and Increase the Risk of Adverse Reactions Frequent monitoring for signs and symptoms of pseudotumor cerebri or hypercalcemia. Midazolam (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Increased plasma exposures may increase the risk of adverse reactions and toxicities related to benzodiazepines. Refer to drug-specific labeling for details. Other benzodiazepines including triazolam and alprazolam (CYP3A4 Inhibition) In Vitro Studies Demonstrated Potential for Voriconazole to Inhibit Metabolism (Increased Plasma Exposure) HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors (Statins) (CYP3A4 Inhibition) In Vitro Studies Demonstrated Potential for Voriconazole to Inhibit Metabolism (Increased Plasma Exposure) Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to statins. Increased statin concentrations in plasma have been associated with rhabdomyolysis. Adjustment of the statin dosage may be needed. Dihydropyridine Calcium Channel Blockers (CYP3A4 Inhibition) In Vitro Studies Demonstrated Potential for Voriconazole to Inhibit Metabolism (Increased Plasma Exposure) Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to calcium channel blockers. Adjustment of calcium channel blocker dosage may be needed. Sulfonylurea Oral Hypoglycemics (CYP2C9 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased Frequent monitoring of blood glucose and for signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia. Adjustment of oral hypoglycemic drug dosage may be needed. Vinca Alkaloids (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity (i.e., neurotoxicity) related to vinca alkaloids. Reserve azole antifungals, including voriconazole, for patients receiving a vinca alkaloid who have no alternative antifungal treatment options. Everolimus (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased Concomitant administration of voriconazole and everolimus is not recommended. • CYP3A4, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19 inhibitors and inducers: Adjust VFEND dosage and monitor for adverse reactions or lack of efficacy ( 4 , 7 ) • VFEND may increase the concentrations and activity of drugs that are CYP3A4, CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 substrates. Reduce dosage of these other drugs and monitor for adverse reactions ( 4 , 7 ) • Phenytoin or Efavirenz: With coadministration, increase maintenance oral and intravenous dosage of VFEND ( 2.3 , 2.7 , 7 ) Tables 10 and 11 provide the clinically significant interactions between voriconazole and other medical products. Table 10:Effect of Other Drugs on Voriconazole Pharmacokinetics [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] Drug/Drug Class (Mechanism of Interaction by the Drug) Voriconazole Plasma Exposure (C max and AUC τ after 200 mg every 12 hours) Recommendations for Voriconazole Dosage Adjustment/Comments * Results based on in vivo clinical studies generally following repeat oral dosing with 200 mg every 12 hours voriconazole to healthy subjects ** Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for at least 2 days voriconazole to healthy subjects *** Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors Rifampin* and Rifabutin* (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Contraindicated Efavirenz (400 mg every 24 hours)** (CYP450 Induction) Efavirenz (300 mg every 24 hours)** (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Slight Decrease in AUC τ Contraindicated When voriconazole is coadministered with efavirenz, voriconazole oral maintenance dose should be increased to 400 mg every 12 hours and efavirenz should be decreased to 300 mg every 24 hours. High-dose Ritonavir (400 mg every 12 hours)** (CYP450 Induction) Low-dose Ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours)** (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Reduced Contraindicated Coadministration of voriconazole and low-dose ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours) should be avoided, unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole. Carbamazepine (CYP450 Induction) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Likely to Result in Significant Reduction Contraindicated Long Acting Barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital, mephobarbital) (CYP450 Induction) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Likely to Result in Significant Reduction Contraindicated Phenytoin* (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Increase voriconazole maintenance dose from 4 mg/kg to 5 mg/kg IV every 12 hours or from 200 mg to 400 mg orally every 12 hours (100 mg to 200 mg orally every 12 hours in patients weighing less than 40 kg). John’s Wort (CYP450 inducer; P-gp inducer) Significantly Reduced Contraindicated Oral Contraceptives** containing ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone (CYP2C19 Inhibition) Increased Monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to voriconazole is recommended when coadministered with oral contraceptives. Fluconazole** (CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Avoid concomitant administration of voriconazole and fluconazole. Other HIV Protease Inhibitors (CYP3A4 Inhibition) In Vivo Studies Showed No Significant Effects of Indinavir on Voriconazole Exposure In Vitro Studies Demonstrated Potential for Inhibition of Voriconazole Metabolism (Increased Plasma Exposure) No dosage adjustment in the voriconazole dosage needed when coadministered with indinavir. Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to voriconazole when coadministered with other HIV protease inhibitors. Other NNRTIs*** (CYP3A4 Inhibition or CYP450 Induction) In Vitro Studies Demonstrated Potential for Inhibition of Voriconazole Metabolism by Delavirdine and Other NNRTIs (Increased Plasma Exposure) A Voriconazole-Efavirenz Drug Interaction Study Demonstrated the Potential for the Metabolism of Voriconazole to be Induced by Efavirenz and Other NNRTIs (Decreased Plasma Exposure) Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to voriconazole. Careful assessment of voriconazole effectiveness. CYP3A4, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19 inhibitors and inducers: Adjust voriconazole tablets dosage and monitor for adverse reactions or lack of efficacy ( 4 , 7 ) Voriconazole tablets may increase the concentrations and activity of drugs that are CYP3A4, CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 substrates. Reduce dosage of these other drugs and monitor for adverse reactions ( 4 , 7 ) Phenytoin or Efavirenz: With co-administration, increase maintenance oral and intravenous dosage of voriconazole ( 2.3 , 2.7 , 7 ) Table 11: Effect of Voriconazole on Pharmacokinetics of Other Drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] Drug/Drug Class (Mechanism of Interaction by Voriconazole) Drug Plasma Exposure (C max and AUC τ ) Recommendations for Drug Dosage Adjustment/Comments * Results based on in vivo clinical studies generally following repeat oral dosing with 200 mg BID voriconazole to healthy subjects ** Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for at least 2 days voriconazole to healthy subjects *** Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for 4 days voriconazole to subjects receiving a methadone maintenance dose (30-100 mg every 24 hours) **** Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug ***** Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors Sirolimus* (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Contraindicated Rifabutin* (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Contraindicated Efavirenz (400 mg every 24 hours)** (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Efavirenz (300 mg every 24 hours)** (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Slight Increase in AUC τ Contraindicated When voriconazole is coadministered with efavirenz, voriconazole oral maintenance dose should be increased to 400 mg every 12 hours and efavirenz should be decreased to 300 mg every 24 hours. High-dose Ritonavir (400 mg every 12 hours )**(CYP3A4 Inhibition) Low-dose Ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours)** No Significant Effect of Voriconazole on Ritonavir C max or AUC τ Slight Decrease in Ritonavir C max and AUC τ Contraindicated because of significant reduction of voriconazole C max and AUC τ. Coadministration of voriconazole and low-dose ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours) should be avoided (due to the reduction in voriconazole C max and AUC τ ) unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole. Ergot Alkaloids (CYP450 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased Contraindicated Naloxegol (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased which may Increase the Risk of Adverse Reactions Contraindicated Tolvaptan (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Although Not Studied Clinically, Voriconazole is Likely to Significantly Increase the Plasma Concentrations of Tolvaptan Contraindicated Lurasidone (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Voriconazole is Likely to Significantly Increase the Plasma Concentrations of Lurasidone Contraindicated Finerenone (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Voriconazole is Likely to Significantly Increase the Plasma Concentrations of Finerenone Contraindicated Venetoclax (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Venetoclax Plasma Exposure Likely to be Significantly Increased Coadministration of voriconazole is contraindicated at initiation and during the ramp-up phase in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL). For patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), dose reduction and safety monitoring are recommended across all dosing phases when coadministering voriconazole tablets with venetoclax. Lemborexant (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased Avoid concomitant use of voriconazole tablets with lemborexant Glasdegib (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased Consider alternative therapies. Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (including but not limited to axitinib, bosutinib, cabozantinib, ceritinib, cobimetinib, dabrafenib, dasatinib, nilotinib, sunitinib, ibrutinib, ribociclib) (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased Avoid concomitant use of voriconazole tablets. Cyclosporine* (CYP3A4 Inhibition) AUC τ Significantly Increased; No Significant Effect on C max When initiating therapy with voriconazole tablets in patients already receiving cyclosporine, reduce the cyclosporine dose to one-half of the starting dose and follow with frequent monitoring of cyclosporine blood levels. When voriconazole tablets are discontinued, cyclosporine concentrations must be frequently monitored and the dose increased as necessary. Methadone*** (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Increased Increased plasma concentrations of methadone have been associated with toxicity including QT prolongation. Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to methadone is recommended during coadministration. Fentanyl (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Increased Reduction in the dose of fentanyl and other long-acting opiates metabolized by CYP3A4 should be considered when coadministered with voriconazole tablets. Alfentanil (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased An increase in the incidence of delayed and persistent alfentanil-associated nausea and vomiting were observed when coadministered with voriconazole tablets. Reduction in the dose of alfentanil and other opiates metabolized by CYP3A4 (e.g., sufentanil) should be considered when coadministered with voriconazole tablets. A longer period for monitoring respiratory and other opiate-associated adverse reactions may be necessary . Oxycodone (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Increased visual effects (heterophoria and miosis) of oxycodone were observed when coadministered with voriconazole tablets. Reduction in the dose of oxycodone and other long-acting opiates metabolized by CYP3A4 should be considered when coadministered with voriconazole tablets. NSAIDs**** including ibuprofen and diclofenac (CYP2C9 Inhibition) Increased Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to NSAIDs. Dose reduction of NSAIDs may be needed . Tacrolimus* (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased When initiating therapy with voriconazole tablets in patients already receiving tacrolimus, reduce the tacrolimus dose to one-third of the starting dose and follow with frequent monitoring of tacrolimus blood levels. When voriconazole tablets are discontinued, tacrolimus concentrations must be frequently monitored and the dose increased as necessary. Phenytoin* (CYP2C9 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Frequent monitoring of phenytoin plasma concentrations and frequent monitoring of adverse effects related to phenytoin. Oral Contraceptives containing ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone (CYP3A4 Inhibition)** Increased Monitoring for adverse reactions related to oral contraceptives is recommended during coadministration. Prednisolone and other corticosteroids (CYP3A4 Inhibition) In Vivo Studies Showed No Significant Effects of voriconazole tablets on Prednisolone Exposure Not Studied In vitro or In vivo for Other Corticosteroids, but Drug Exposure Likely to be Increased No dosage adjustment for prednisolone when coadministered with voriconazole tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Monitor for potential adrenal dysfunction when voriconazole tablets is administered with other corticosteroids [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )]. Warfarin* (CYP2C9 Inhibition) Other Oral Coumarin Anticoagulants (CYP2C9/3A4 Inhibition) Prothrombin Time Significantly Increased Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro for other Oral Coumarin Anticoagulants, but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased If patients receiving coumarin preparations are treated simultaneously with voriconazole, the prothrombin time or other suitable anticoagulation tests should be monitored at close intervals and the dosage of anticoagulants adjusted accordingly. Ivacaftor (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased which may Increase the Risk of Adverse Reactions Dose reduction of ivacaftor is recommended. Refer to the prescribing information for ivacaftor Eszopiclone (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased which may Increase the Sedative Effect of Eszopiclone Dose reduction of eszopiclone is recommended. Omeprazole* (CYP2C19/3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased When initiating therapy with voriconazole tablets in patients already receiving omeprazole doses of 40 mg or greater, reduce the omeprazole dose by one-half. Other HIV Protease Inhibitors (CYP3A4 Inhibition) In Vivo Studies Showed No Significant Effects on Indinavir Exposure In Vitro Studies Demonstrated Potential for Voriconazole to Inhibit Metabolism (Increased Plasma Exposure) No dosage adjustment for indinavir when coadministered with voriconazole tablets. Other NNRTIs***** (CYP3A4 Inhibition) A Voriconazole-Efavirenz Drug Interaction Study Demonstrated the Potential for Voriconazole to Inhibit Metabolism of Other NNRTIs (Increased Plasma Exposure) Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to NNRTI. Midazolam (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Other benzodiazepines including triazolam and alprazolam (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased In Vitro Studies Demonstrated Potential for Voriconazole to Inhibit Metabolism (Increased Plasma Exposure) Increased plasma exposures may increase the risk of adverse reactions and toxicities related to benzodiazepines. HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors (Statins) (CYP3A4 Inhibition) In Vitro Studies Demonstrated Potential for Voriconazole to Inhibit Metabolism (Increased Plasma Exposure) Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to statins. Table 10: Effect of Other Drugs on Voriconazole Pharmacokinetics [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] Drug/Drug Class (Mechanism of Interaction by the Drug) Voriconazole Plasma Exposure (C max and AUC τ after 200 mg every 12 hours) Recommendations for Voriconazole Dosage Adjustment/Comments * Results based on in vivo clinical studies generally following repeat oral dosing with 200 mg every 12 hours voriconazole to healthy subjects ** Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for at least 2 days voriconazole to healthy subjects *** Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors Rifampin* and Rifabutin* (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Contraindicated Efavirenz (400 mg every 24 hours)** (CYP450 Induction) Efavirenz (300 mg every 24 hours)** (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Slight Decrease in AUC τ Contraindicated When voriconazole is coadministered with efavirenz, voriconazole oral maintenance dose should be increased to 400 mg every 12 hours and efavirenz should be decreased to 300 mg every 24 hours. Table 11: Effect of Voriconazole on Pharmacokinetics of Other Drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] * Results based on in vivo clinical studies generally following repeat oral dosing with 200 mg BID voriconazole to healthy subjects ** Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for at least 2 days voriconazole to healthy subjects *** Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for 4 days voriconazole to subjects receiving a methadone maintenance dose (30 to 100 mg every 24 hours) **** Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug ***** Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors Drug/Drug Class (Mechanism of Interaction by Voriconazole) Drug Plasma Exposure (Cmax and AUC τ ) Recommendations for Drug Dosage Adjustment/Comments Sirolimus* (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Contraindicated Rifabutin* (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Contraindicated Efavirenz (400 mg every 24 hours)** (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Efavirenz (300 mg every 24 hours)** (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Slight Increase in AUC τ Contraindicated When voriconazole is coadministered with efavirenz, voriconazole oral maintenance dose should be increased to 400 mg every 12 hours and efavirenz should be decreased to 300 mg every 24 hours. High-dose Ritonavir (400 mg every 12 hours)**(CYP3A4 Inhibition) Low-dose Ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours)** No Significant Effect of Voriconazole on Ritonavir C max or AUC τ Slight Decrease in Ritonavir C max and AUC τ Contraindicated because of significant reduction of voriconazole C max and AUC τ . Pimozide, Quinidine, Ivabradine (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro, but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased Contraindicated because of potential for QT prolongation and rare occurrence of torsade de pointes. Ergot Alkaloids (CYP450 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro, but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased Contraindicated Naloxegol (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro, but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased which may Increase the Risk of Adverse Reactions Contraindicated Tolvaptan (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Voriconazole is Likely to Significantly Increase the Plasma Concentrations of Tolvaptan Contraindicated Venetoclax (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not studied In Vivo or In Vitro, but Venetoclax Plasma Exposure Likely to be Significantly Increased Coadministration of voriconazole is contraindicated at initiation and during the ramp-up phase in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL). For patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), dose reduction and safety monitoring are recommended across all dosing phases when coadministering voriconazole with venetoclax. Lemborexant (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro, but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased Avoid concomitant use of voriconazole with lemborexant. Glasdegib (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro, but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased Consider alternative therapies. Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (including but not limited to axitinib, bosutinib, cabozantinib, ceritinib, cobimetinib, dabrafenib, dasatinib, nilotinib, sunitinib, ibrutinib, ribociclib) (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro, but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased Avoid concomitant use of voriconazole. Lurasidone (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro, but Voriconazole is Likely to Significantly Increase the Plasma Concentrations of Lurasidone Contraindicated Cyclosporine* (CYP3A4 Inhibition) AUC τ Significantly Increased; No Significant Effect on C max When initiating therapy with voriconazole in patients already receiving cyclosporine, reduce the cyclosporine dose to one-half of the starting dose and follow with frequent monitoring of cyclosporine blood levels. When voriconazole is discontinued, cyclosporine concentrations must be frequently monitored and the dose increased as necessary. Fentanyl (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Increased Reduction in the dose of fentanyl and other long-acting opiates metabolized by CYP3A4 should be considered when coadministered with voriconazole. Alfentanil (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased An increase in the incidence of delayed and persistent alfentanil-associated nausea and vomiting were observed when coadministered with voriconazole. Reduction in the dose of alfentanil and other opiates metabolized by CYP3A4 (e.g., sufentanil) should be considered when coadministered with voriconazole. Oxycodone (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Increased visual effects (heterophoria and miosis) of oxycodone were observed when coadministered with voriconazole. Reduction in the dose of oxycodone and other long-acting opiates metabolized by CYP3A4 should be considered when coadministered with voriconazole. Tacrolimus* (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased When initiating therapy with voriconazole in patients already receiving tacrolimus, reduce the tacrolimus dose to one-third of the starting dose and follow with frequent monitoring of tacrolimus blood levels. When voriconazole is discontinued, tacrolimus concentrations must be frequently monitored and the dose increased as necessary. Prednisolone and other corticosteroids (CYP3A4 Inhibition) In Vivo Studies Showed No Significant Effects of voriconazole on Prednisolone Exposure Not Studied In vitro or In vivo for Other Corticosteroids, but Drug Exposure Likely to be Increased No dosage adjustment for prednisolone when coadministered with voriconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Monitor for potential adrenal dysfunction when voriconazole is administered with other corticosteroids [See Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Refer to the prescribing information for ivacaftor Eszopiclone (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro, but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased which may Increase the Sedative Effect of Eszopiclone Dose reduction of eszopiclone is recommended. Omeprazole* (CYP2C19/3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased When initiating therapy with voriconazole in patients already receiving omeprazole doses of 40 mg or greater, reduce the omeprazole dose by one-half. Other HIV Protease Inhibitors (CYP3A4 Inhibition) In Vivo Studies Showed No Significant Effects on Indinavir Exposure In Vitro Studies Demonstrated Potential for Voriconazole to Inhibit Metabolism (Increased Plasma Exposure) No dosage adjustment for indinavir when coadministered with voriconazole. CYP3A4, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19 inhibitors and inducers: Adjust voriconazole dosage and monitor for adverse reactions or lack of efficacy ( 4 , 7 ) Voriconazole may increase the concentrations and activity of drugs that are CYP3A4, CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 substrates. Reduce dosage of these other drugs and monitor for adverse reactions ( 4 , 7 ) Phenytoin or Efavirenz: With co-administration, increase maintenance oral and intravenous dosage of voriconazole ( 2.3 , 2.7 , 7 ) Table 10: Effect of Other Drugs on Voriconazole Pharmacokinetics [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] * Results based on in vivo clinical studies generally following repeat oral dosing with 200 mg every 12 hours voriconazole to healthy subjects ** Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for at least 2 days voriconazole to healthy subjects *** Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors Drug/Drug Class (Mechanism of Interaction by the Drug) Voriconazole Plasma Exposure (C max and AUC τ after 200 mg every 12 hours) Recommendations for Voriconazole Dosage Adjustment/Comments Rifampin* and Rifabutin* (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Contraindicated Efavirenz (400 mg every 24 hours)** (CYP450 Induction) Efavirenz (300 mg every 24 hours)** (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Slight Decrease in AUC τ Contraindicated When voriconazole is coadministered with efavirenz, voriconazole oral maintenance dose should be increased to 400 mg every 12 hours and efavirenz should be decreased to 300 mg every 24 hours. John's Wort (CYP450 inducer; P-gp inducer) Significantly Reduced Contraindicated Oral Contraceptives** containing ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone (CYP2C19 Inhibition) Increased Monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to voriconazole is recommended when coadministered with oral contraceptives. Table 11: Effect of Voriconazole on Pharmacokinetics of Other Drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] * Results based on in vivo clinical studies generally following repeat oral dosing with 200 mg BID voriconazole to healthy subjects ** Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for at least 2 days voriconazole to healthy subjects *** Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for 4 days voriconazole to subjects receiving a methadone maintenance dose (30 to 100 mg every 24 hours) **** Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug ***** Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors Drug/Drug Class (Mechanism of Interaction by Voriconazole) Drug Plasma Exposure (C max and AUC τ ) Recommendations for Drug Dosage Adjustment/ Comments Sirolimus* (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Contraindicated Rifabutin* (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Contraindicated Efavirenz (400 mg every 24 hours)** (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Efavirenz (300 mg every 24 hours)** (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Slight Increase in AUC τ Contraindicated When voriconazole is coadministered with efavirenz, voriconazole oral maintenance dose should be increased to 400 mg every 12 hours and efavirenz should be decreased to 300 mg every 24 hours. High-dose Ritonavir (400 mg every 12 hours)** (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Low-dose Ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours)** No Significant Effect of Voriconazole on Ritonavir C max or AUC τ Slight Decrease in Ritonavir C max and AUC τ Contraindicated because of significant reduction of voriconazole C max and AUC τ . Ergot Alkaloids (CYP450 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased Contraindicated Naloxegol (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased which may Increase the Risk of Adverse Reactions Contraindicated Tolvaptan (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Although Not Studied Clinically, Voriconazole is Likely to Significantly Increase the Plasma Concentrations of Tolvaptan Contraindicated Venetoclax (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Venetoclax Plasma Exposure Likely to be Significantly Increased Coadministration of voriconazole is contraindicated at initiation and during the ramp-up phase in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL). For patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), dose reduction and safety monitoring are recommended across all dosing phases when coadministering voriconazole for injection with venetoclax. Lemborexant (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased Avoid concomitant use of voriconazole with lemborexant. Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (including but not limited to axitinib, bosutinib, cabozantinib, ceritinib, cobimetinib, dabrafenib, dasatinib, nilotinib, sunitinib, ibrutinib, ribociclib) (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased Avoid concomitant use of voriconazole. Lurasidone (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Voriconazole is Likely to Significantly Increase the Plasma Concentrations of Lurasidone Contraindicated Cyclosporine* (CYP3A4 Inhibition) AUC τ Significantly Increased; No Significant Effect on C max When initiating therapy with voriconazole in patients already receiving cyclosporine, reduce the cyclosporine dose to one-half of the starting dose and follow with frequent monitoring of cyclosporine blood levels. Extended and frequent monitoring for opiate- associated adverse reactions may be necessary. Alfentanil (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased An increase in the incidence of delayed and persistent alfentanil-associated nausea and vomiting were observed when coadministered with voriconazole for injection. NSAIDs**** including. Prednisolone and other corticosteroids (CYP3A4 Inhibition) In Vivo Studies Showed No Significant Effects of Voriconazole on Prednisolone Exposure Not Studied In vitro or In vivo for Other Corticosteroids, but Drug Exposure Likely to be Increased No dosage adjustment for prednisolone when coadministered with voriconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Monitor for potential adrenal dysfunction when voriconazole is administered with other corticosteroids [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )]. Table 9: Effect of Other Drugs on Voriconazole Pharmacokinetics [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] Drug/Drug Class (Mechanism of Interaction by the Drug) Voriconazole Plasma Exposure (C max and AUC τ after 200 mg every 12 hours) Recommendations for Voriconazole Dosage Adjustment/Comments Rifampin Results based on in vivo clinical studies generally following repeat oral dosing with 200 mg every 12 hours voriconazole to healthy subjects and Rifabutin (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Contraindicated Efavirenz (400 mg every 24 hours) Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for at least 2 days voriconazole to healthy subjects (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Contraindicated Efavirenz (300 mg every 24 hours) (CYP450 Induction) Slight Decrease in AUC τ When voriconazole is coadministered with efavirenz, voriconazole oral maintenance dose should be increased to 400 mg every 12 hours and efavirenz should be decreased to 300 mg every 24 hours. High-dose Ritonavir (400 mg every 12 hours) (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Contraindicated Low-dose Ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours) (CYP450 Induction Reduced Coadministration of voriconazole and low-dose ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours) should be avoided, unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole Carbamazepine (CYP450 Induction) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Likely to Result in Significant Reduction Contraindicated Long Acting Barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital, mephobarbital) (CYP450 Induction) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Likely to Result in Significant Reduction Contraindicated Phenytoin (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Increase voriconazole maintenance dose from 4 mg/kg to 5 mg/kg IV every 12 hours or from 200 mg to 400 mg orally every 12 hours (100 mg to 200 mg orally every 12 hours in patients weighing less than 40 kg). John’s Wort (CYP450 Inducer; P-gp Inducer) Significantly Reduced Contraindicated Oral Contraceptives containing ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone (CYP2C19 Inhibition) Increased Monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to voriconazole is recommended when coadministered with oral contraceptives. Other HIV Protease Inhibitors (CYP3A4 Inhibition) In Vivo Studies Showed No Significant Effects of Indinavir on Voriconazole Exposure No dosage adjustment in the voriconazole dosage needed when coadministered with indinavir. In Vitro Studies Demonstrated Potential for Inhibition of Voriconazole Metabolism (Increased Plasma Exposure) Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to voriconazole when coadministered with other HIV protease inhibitors. Table 10: Effect of Voriconazole on Pharmacokinetics of Other Drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] Drug/Drug Class (Mechanism of Interaction by Voriconazole) Drug Plasma Exposure (C max and AUC τ ) Recommendations for Drug Dosage Adjustment/Comments Sirolimus Results based on in vivo clinical studies generally following repeat oral dosing with 200 mg BID voriconazole to healthy subjects (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Contraindicated Rifabutin (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Contraindicated Efavirenz (400 mg every 24 hours) Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for at least 2 days voriconazole to healthy subjects (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Contraindicated Efavirenz (300 mg every 24 hours) (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Slight Increase in AUC τ When voriconazole is coadministered with efavirenz, voriconazole oral maintenance dose should be increased to 400 mg every 12 hours and efavirenz should be decreased to 300 mg every 24 hours. High-dose Ritonavir (400 mg every 12 hours) (CYP3A4 Inhibition) No Significant Effect of Voriconazole on Ritonavir C max or AUC τ Contraindicated because of significant reduction of voriconazole C max and AUC τ . Low-dose Ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours) Slight Decrease in Ritonavir C max and AUC τ Coadministration of voriconazole and low-dose ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours) should be avoided (due to the reduction in voriconazole C max and AUC τ ) unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole. Cyclosporine (CYP3A4 Inhibition) AUC τ Significantly Increased; No Significant Effect on C max When initiating therapy with voriconazole in patients already receiving cyclosporine, reduce the cyclosporine dose to one-half of the starting dose and follow with frequent monitoring of cyclosporine blood levels. Methadone Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for 4 days voriconazole to subjects receiving a methadone maintenance dose (30-100 mg every 24 hours) (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Increased Increased plasma concentrations of methadone have been associated with toxicity including QT prolongation. Extended and frequent monitoring for opiate associated adverse reactions may be necessary. NSAIDs Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug including ibuprofen and diclofenac (CYP2C9 Inhibition) Increased Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to NSAIDs. Tacrolimus (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased When initiating therapy with voriconazole in patients already receiving tacrolimus, reduce the tacrolimus dose to one-third of the starting dose and follow with frequent monitoring of tacrolimus blood levels. Oral Contraceptives containing ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Increased Monitoring for adverse reactions related to oral contraceptives is recommended during coadministration. Prednisolone and other corticosteroids (CYP3A4 Inhibition) In Vivo Studies Showed No Significant Effects of Voriconazole on Prednisolone Exposure. Not Studied In vitro or In vivo for Other Corticosteroids, but Drug Exposure Likely to be Increased No dosage adjustment for prednisolone when coadministered with voriconazole [seeClinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Warfarin (CYP2C9 Inhibition) Other Oral Coumarin Anticoagulants (CYP2C9/3A4 Inhibition) Prothrombin Time Significantly Increased Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro for other Oral Coumarin Anticoagulants, but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased If patients receiving coumarin preparations are treated simultaneously with voriconazole, the prothrombin time or other suitable anticoagulation tests should be monitored at close intervals and the dosage of anticoagulants adjusted accordingly. Eszopiclone (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased which may Increase the Sedative Effect of Eszopiclone. Dose reduction of eszopiclone is recommended. Omeprazole (CYP2C19/3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased When initiating therapy with voriconazole in patients already receiving omeprazole doses of 40 mg or greater, reduce the omeprazole dose by one-half. Other benzodiazepines including triazolam and alprazolam (CYP3A4 Inhibition) In Vitro Studies Demonstrated Potential for Voriconazole to Inhibit Metabolism (Increased Plasma Exposure) Refer to drug-specific labeling for details. Table 10: Effect of Other Drugs on Voriconazole Pharmacokinetics [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] Drug/Drug Class (Mechanism of Interaction by the Drug) Voriconazole Plasma Exposure (C max and AUC τ after 200 mg every 12 hours) Recommendations for Voriconazole Dosage Adjustment/Comments Rifampin Results based on in vivo clinical studies generally following repeat oral dosing with 200 mg every 12 hours voriconazole to healthy subjects and Rifabutin (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Contraindicated Efavirenz (400 mg every 24 hours) Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for at least 2 days voriconazole to healthy subjects (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Contraindicated Efavirenz (300 mg every 24 hours) (CYP450 Induction) Slight Decrease in AUC τ When voriconazole is coadministered with efavirenz, voriconazole oral maintenance dose should be increased to 400 mg every 12 hours and efavirenz should be decreased to 300 mg every 24 hours. Table 11: Effect of Voriconazole on Pharmacokinetics of Other Drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] Drug/Drug Class (Mechanism of Interaction by Voriconazole) Drug Plasma Exposure (C max and AUC τ ) Recommendations for Drug Dosage Adjustment/Comments Sirolimus Results based on in vivo clinical studies generally following repeat oral dosing with 200 mg BID voriconazole to healthy subjects (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Contraindicated Rifabutin (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Contraindicated Efavirenz (400 mg every 24 hours) Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for at least 2 days voriconazole to healthy subjects (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Contraindicated Efavirenz (300 mg every 24 hours) (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Slight Increase in AUC τ When voriconazole is coadministered with efavirenz, voriconazole oral maintenance dose should be increased to 400 mg every 12 hours and efavirenz should be decreased to 300 mg every 24 hours. Not Studied In vitro or In vivo for Other Corticosteroids, but Drug Exposure Likely to be Increased No dosage adjustment for prednisolone when coadministered with voriconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Table 10: Effect of Other Drugs on Voriconazole Pharmacokinetics [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] Drug/Drug Class (Mechanism of Interaction by the Drug) Voriconazole Plasma Exposure (C max and AUC τ after 200 mg every 12 hours) Recommendations for Voriconazole Dosage Adjustment/Comments Rifampin* and Rifabutin* (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Contraindicated Efavirenz (400 mg every 24 hours)** (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Contraindicated Efavirenz (300 mg every 24 hours)** (CYP450 Induction) Slight Decrease in AUC τ When voriconazole is coadministered with efavirenz, voriconazole oral maintenance dose should be increased to 400 mg every 12 hours and efavirenz should be decreased to 300 mg every 24 hours. High-dose Ritonavir (400 mg every 12 hours)** (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Contraindicated Low-dose Ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours)** (CYP450 Induction) Reduced Coadministration of voriconazole and low-dose ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours) should be avoided, unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole. Letermovir (CYP2C9/2C19 Induction) Reduced If concomitant administration of voriconazole with letermovir cannot be avoided, monitor for reduced effectiveness of voriconazole St. Other NNRTIs*** (CYP3A4 Inhibition or CYP450 Induction) In Vitro Studies Demonstrated Potential for Inhibition of Voriconazole Metabolism by Delavirdine and Other NNRTIs (Increased Plasma Exposure) Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to voriconazole. *Results based on in vivo clinical studies generally following repeat oral dosing with 200 mg every 12 hours voriconazole to healthy subjects **Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for at least 2 days voriconazole to healthy subjects ***Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors Table 11: Effect of Voriconazole on Pharmacokinetics of Other Drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] Drug/Drug Class (Mechanism of Interaction by Voriconazole) Drug Plasma Exposure (C max and AUC τ ) Recommendations for Drug Dosage Adjustment/Comments Sirolimus* (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Contraindicated Rifabutin* (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Contraindicated Efavirenz (400 mg every 24 hours)** (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Contraindicated Efavirenz (300 mg every 24 hours)** (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Slight Increase in AUC τ When voriconazole is coadministered with efavirenz, voriconazole oral maintenance dose should be increased to 400 mg every 12 hours and efavirenz should be decreased to 300 mg every 24 hours. High-dose Ritonavir (400 mg every 12 hours)** (CYP3A4 Inhibition) No Significant Effect of Voriconazole on Ritonavir C max or AUC τ Contraindicated because of significant reduction of voriconazole C max and AUC τ . Low-dose Ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours)** Slight Decrease in Ritonavir C max and AUC τ Coadministration of voriconazole and low-dose ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours) should be avoided (due to the reduction in voriconazole C max and AUC τ ) unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole. Cisapride, Pimozide, Quinidine, Ivabradine (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased Contraindicated because of potential for QT prolongation and rare occurrence of torsade de pointes. Ivacaftor (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro, but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased which may Increase the Risk of Adverse Reactions Dose reduction of ivacaftor is recommended. Refer to the prescribing information for ivacaftor Omeprazole* (CYP2C19/3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased When initiating therapy with voriconazole in patients already receiving omeprazole doses of 40 mg or greater, reduce the omeprazole dose by one-half. Other HIV Protease Inhibitors (CYP3A4 Inhibition) In Vivo Studies Showed No Significant Effects on Indinavir Exposure No dosage adjustment for indinavir when coadministered with voriconazole. In Vitro Studies Demonstrated Potential for Voriconazole to Inhibit Metabolism (Increased Plasma Exposure) Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to other HIV protease inhibitors. Midazolam (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Other Benzodiazepines including Triazolam and Alprazolam (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significiantly Increased In Vitro Studies Demonstrated Potential for Voriconazole to Inhibit Metabolism (Increased Plasma Exposure) Increased plasma exposures may increase the risk of adverse reactions and toxicities related to benzodiazepines. *Results based on in vivo clinical studies generally following repeat oral dosing with 200 mg BID voriconazole to healthy subjects **Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for at least 2 days voriconazole to healthy subjects ***Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for 4 days voriconazole to subjects receiving a methadone maintenance dose (30 to 100 mg every 24 hours) ****Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug *****Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors CYP3A4, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19 inhibitors and inducers: Adjust voriconazole dosage and monitor for adverse reactions or lack of efficacy ( 4 , 7 ) Voriconazole may increase the concentrations and activity of drugs that are CYP3A4, CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 substrates. Drugs listed in Table 10 and Table 11 are a guide and not considered a comprehensive list of all possible drugs and herbal products that are contraindicated or may interact with voriconazole. Table 10: Effect of Other Drugs on Voriconazole Pharmacokinetics [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] Drug/Drug Class (Mechanism of Interaction by the Drug) Voriconazole Plasma Exposure (C max and AUC τ after 200 mg every 12 hours) Prevention or Management Recommendation s Rifampin Results based on in vivo clinical studies generally following repeat oral dosing with 200 mg every 12 hours voriconazole to healthy subjects and Rifabutin (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Contraindicated Efavirenz (400 mg every 24 hours) Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for at least 2 days voriconazole to healthy subjects (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Contraindicated Efavirenz (300 mg every 24 hours) (CYP450 Induction) Slight Decrease in AUC τ When voriconazole is concomitantly administered with efavirenz, voriconazole oral maintenance dose should be increased to 400 mg every 12 hours and efavirenz should be decreased to 300 mg every 24 hours. For patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), dose reduction and safety monitoring are recommended across all dosing phases when concomitantly administered voriconazole with venetoclax. Alfentanil (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased An increase in the incidence of delayed and persistent alfentanil-associated nausea and vomiting were observed when concomitantly administered with voriconazole. Reduction in the dose of alfentanil and other opiates metabolized by CYP3A4 (e.g., sufentanil) should be considered when concomitantly administered with voriconazole. Oxycodone (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Increased visual effects (heterophoria and miosis) of oxycodone were observed when concomitantly administered with voriconazole. Reduction in the dose of oxycodone and other long-acting opiates metabolized by CYP3A4 should be considered when concomitantly administered with voriconazole. Prednisolone and other corticosteroids (CYP3A4 Inhibition) In Vivo Studies Showed No Significant Effects of Voriconazole on Prednisolone Exposure Not Studied In Vitro or In vivo for Other Corticosteroids, but Drug Exposure Likely to be Increased No dosage adjustment for prednisolone when concomitantly administered with voriconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Mayacamten (CYP2C19/3A4/2C9 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Mayacamten Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased which may Increase the Risk of Heart Failure Refer to the prescribing information for mayacamten Omeprazole (CYP2C19/3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased When initiating therapy with voriconazole in patients already receiving omeprazole doses of 40 mg or greater, reduce the omeprazole dose by one-half. Other HIV Protease Inhibitors (CYP3A4 Inhibition) In Vivo Studies Showed No Significant Effects on Indinavir Exposure In Vitro Studies Demonstrated Potential for Voriconazole to Inhibit Metabolism (Increased Plasma Exposure) No dosage adjustment for indinavir when concomitantly administered with voriconazole. Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to other HIV protease inhibitors Other NNRTIs Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (CYP3A4 Inhibition) A Voriconazole-Efavirenz Drug Interaction Study Demonstrated the Potential for Voriconazole to Inhibit Metabolism of Other NNRTIs (Increased Plasma Exposure) Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to NNRTI. Reduce dosage of these other drugs and monitor for adverse reactions ( 4 , 7 ) Phenytoin or Efavirenz: With coadministration, increase maintenance oral and intravenous dosage of voriconazole ( 2.3 , 2.7 , 7 ) Table 9: Effect of Other Drugs on Voriconazole Pharmacokinetics [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] Drug/Drug Class (Mechanism of Interaction by the Drug) Voriconazole Plasma Exposure (C max and AUC τ after 200 mg every 12 hours) Recommendations for Voriconazole Dosage Adjustment/Comments Rifampin Results based on in vivo clinical studies generally following repeat oral dosing with 200 mg every 12 hours voriconazole to healthy subjects and Rifabutin (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Contraindicated Efavirenz (400 mg every 24 hours) Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for at least 2 days voriconazole to healthy subjects (CYP450 Induction) Efavirenz (300 mg every 24 hours) (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Slight Decrease in AUC τ Contraindicated When voriconazole is coadministered with efavirenz, voriconazole oral maintenance dose should be increased to 400 mg every 12 hours and efavirenz should be decreased to 300 mg every 24 hours. High-dose Ritonavir (400 mg every 12 hours) (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Contraindicated Low-dose Ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours) (CYP450 Induction) Reduced Coadministration of voriconazole and low-dose ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours) should be avoided, unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole. Table 10: Effect of Voriconazole on Pharmacokinetics of Other Drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] Drug/Drug Class (Mechanism of Interaction by Voriconazole) Drug Plasma Exposure (C max and AUC τ ) Recommendations for Drug Dosage Adjustment/Comments Sirolimus Results based on in vivo clinical studies generally following repeat oral dosing with 200 mg BID voriconazole to healthy subjects (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Contraindicated Rifabutin (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Contraindicated Efavirenz (400 mg every 24 hours) Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for at least 2 days voriconazole to healthy subjects (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Efavirenz (300 mg every 24 hours) (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Slight Increase in AUC τ Contraindicated When voriconazole is coadministered with efavirenz, voriconazole oral maintenance dose should be increased to 400 mg every 12 hours and efavirenz should be decreased to 300 mg every 24 hours. Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (e.g., axitinib, bosutinib, cabozantinib, ceritinib, cobimetinib, dabrafenib, dasatinib, nilotinib, sunitinib, ibrutinib, ribociclib) (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased Avoid concomitant use of voriconazole. Lurasidone (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Voriconazole is Likely to Significantly Increase the Plasma Concentrations of Lurasidone Contraindicated Cyclosporine (CYP3A4 Inhibition) AUC τ Significantly Increased; No Significant Effect on C max When initiating therapy with voriconazole in patients already receiving cyclosporine, reduce the cyclosporine dose to one-half of the starting dose and follow with frequent monitoring of cyclosporine blood levels. NSAIDs Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug including: ibuprofen and diclofenac (CYP2C9 Inhibition) Increased Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to NSAIDs. Prednisolone and other corticosteroids (CYP3A4 Inhibition) In Vivo Studies Showed No Significant Effects of Voriconazole on Prednisolone Exposure No dosage adjustment for prednisolone when coadministered with voriconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Not Studied In Vitro or In Vivo for Other Corticosteroids, but Drug Exposure Likely to be Increased Monitor for potential adrenal dysfunction when voriconazole is administered with other corticosteroids [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . Table 10 and Table 11 provide listings of clinically significant drug interactions, including contraindicated drugs [see Contraindications (4)] . Table 10: Effect of Other Drugs on Voriconazole Pharmacokinetics [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] Drug/Drug Class (Mechanism of Interaction by the Drug) Voriconazole Plasma Exposure (C max and AUC τ after 200 mg every 12 hours) Prevention or Management Recommendations Rifampin * and Rifabutin * (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Contraindicated Efavirenz (400 mg every 24 hours) ** (CYP450 Induction) Efavirenz (300 mg every 24 hours) ** (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Slight Decrease in AUC τ Contraindicated When voriconazole is concomitantly administered with efavirenz, voriconazole oral maintenance dose should be increased to 400 mg every 12 hours and efavirenz should be decreased to 300 mg every 24 hours. High-dose Ritonavir (400 mg every 12 hours) ** (CYP450 Induction) Low-dose Ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours) ** (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Reduced Contraindicated Concomitant administration of voriconazole and low-dose ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours) should be avoided, unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole. Carbamazepine (CYP450 Induction) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Likely to Result in Significant Reduction Contraindicated Long Acting Barbiturates (e.g., phenobarbital, mephobarbital) (CYP450 Induction) Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro , but Likely to Result in Significant Reduction Contraindicated Phenytoin * (CYP450 Induction) Significantly Reduced Increase voriconazole maintenance dose from 4 mg/kg to 5 mg/kg IV every 12 hours or from 200 mg to 400 mg orally every 12 hours (100 mg to 200 mg orally every 12 hours in patients weighing less than 40 kg). John's Wort (CYP450 inducer; P-gp inducer) Significantly Reduced Contraindicated Oral Contraceptives ** containing ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone (CYP2C19 Inhibition) Increased Monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to voriconazole is recommended for concomitant administration with oral contraceptives. Fluconazole ** (CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Avoid concomitant administration of voriconazole and fluconazole. Other NNRTIs *** (CYP3A4 Inhibition or CYP450 Induction) In Vitro Studies Demonstrated Potential for Inhibition of Voriconazole Metabolism by Delavirdine and Other NNRTIs (Increased Plasma Exposure) A Voriconazole-Efavirenz Drug Interaction Study Demonstrated the Potential for the Metabolism of Voriconazole to be Induced by Efavirenz and Other NNRTIs (Decreased Plasma Exposure) Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to voriconazole. * Results based on in vivo clinical studies generally following repeat oral dosing with 200 mg every 12 hours voriconazole to healthy subjects ** Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for at least 2 days voriconazole to healthy subjects *** Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors Table 11: Effect of Voriconazole on Pharmacokinetics of Other Drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] Drug/Drug Class (Mechanism of Interaction by Voriconazole) Drug Plasma Exposure (C max and AUC τ ) Prevention or Management Recommendations Sirolimus * (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Contraindicated Rifabutin * (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Contraindicated Efavirenz (400 mg every 24 hours) ** (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Efavirenz (300 mg every 24 hours) ** (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Slight Increase in AUC τ Contraindicated When voriconazole is concomitantly administered with efavirenz, voriconazole oral maintenance dose should be increased to 400 mg every 12 hours and efavirenz should be decreased to 300 mg every 24 hours. High-dose Ritonavir (400 mg every 12 hours) ** (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Low-dose Ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours) ** No Significant Effect of Voriconazole on Ritonavir C max or AUC τ Slight Decrease in Ritonavir C max and AUC τ Contraindicated because of significant reduction of voriconazole C max and AUC τ . Concomitant administration of voriconazole and low-dose ritonavir (100 mg every 12 hours) should be avoided (due to the reduction in voriconazole C max and AUC τ ) unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of voriconazole. Cyclosporine * (CYP3A4 Inhibition) AUCτ Significantly Increased; No Significant Effect on C max When initiating therapy with voriconazole in patients already receiving cyclosporine, reduce the cyclosporine dose to one-half of the starting dose and follow with frequent monitoring of cyclosporine blood levels. Methadone *** (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Increased Increased plasma concentrations of methadone have been associated with toxicity including QT prolongation. Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to methadone is recommended when concomitantly administered with voriconazole. Fentanyl (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Increased Reduction in the dose of fentanyl and other long-acting opiates metabolized by CYP3A4 should be considered when concomitantly administered with voriconazole. Reduction in the dose of oxycodone and other longacting opiates metabolized by CYP3A4 should be considered when concomitantly administered with voriconazole. NSAIDs **** including. Tacrolimus * (CYP3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased When initiating therapy with voriconazole in patients already receiving tacrolimus, reduce the tacrolimus dose to one-third of the starting dose and follow with frequent monitoring of tacrolimus blood levels. Phenytoin * (CYP2C9 Inhibition) Significantly Increased Frequent monitoring of phenytoin plasma concentrations and frequent monitoring of adverse effects related to phenytoin. Oral Contraceptives containing ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone (CYP3A4 Inhibition) ** Increased Monitoring for adverse reactions related to oral contraceptives is recommended during concomitant administration. Prednisolone and other corticosteroids (CYP3A4 Inhibition) In Vivo Studies Showed No Significant Effects of Voriconazole on Prednisolone Exposure Not Studied In vitro or In vivo for Other Corticosteroids, but Drug Exposure Likely to be Increased No dosage adjustment for prednisolone when concomitantly administered with voriconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Monitor for potential adrenal dysfunction when voriconazole is administered with other corticosteroids [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. Warfarin * (CYP2C9 Inhibition) Other Oral Coumarin Anticoagulants (CYP2C9/3A4 Inhibition) Prothrombin Time Significantly Increased Not Studied In Vivo or In Vitro for other Oral Coumarin Anticoagulants, but Drug Plasma Exposure Likely to be Increased If patients receiving coumarin preparations are treated simultaneously with voriconazole, the prothrombin time or other suitable anticoagulation tests should be monitored at close intervals and the dosage of anticoagulants adjusted accordingly. Omeprazole * (CYP2C19/3A4 Inhibition) Significantly Increased When initiating therapy with voriconazole in patients already receiving omeprazole doses of 40 mg or greater, reduce the omeprazole dose by one-half. Other NNRTIs ***** (CYP3A4 Inhibition) A Voriconazole-Efavirenz Drug Interaction Study Demonstrated the Potential for Voriconazole to Inhibit Metabolism of Other NNRTIs (Increased Plasma Exposure) Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to NNRTI. * Results based on in vivo clinical studies generally following repeat oral dosing with 200 mg BID voriconazole to healthy subjects ** Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for at least 2 days voriconazole to healthy subjects *** Results based on in vivo clinical study following repeat oral dosing with 400 mg every 12 hours for 1 day, then 200 mg every 12 hours for 4 days voriconazole to subjects receiving a methadone maintenance dose (30 mg to 100 mg every 24 hours) **** Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug ***** Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors • CYP3A4, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19 inhibitors and inducers: Adjust voriconazole dosage and monitor for adverse reactions or lack of efficacy ( 4 , 7 ) • Voriconazole may increase the concentrations and activity of drugs that are CYP3A4, CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 substrates. Reduce dosage of these other drugs and monitor for adverse reactions ( 4 , 7 ) • Phenytoin or Efavirenz: With coadministration, increase maintenance oral and intravenous dosage of voriconazole ( 2.3 , 2.7 , 7 )

=== CHLORPROMAZINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the management of manifestations of psychotic disorders. For the treatment of schizophrenia. To control nausea and vomiting. For relief of restlessness and apprehension before surgery. For acute intermittent porphyria. As an adjunct in the treatment of tetanus. To control the manifestations of the manic type of manic-depressive illness. For relief of intractable hiccups. For the treatment of severe behavioral problems in children (1 to 12 years of age) marked by combativeness and/or explosive hyperexcitable behavior (out of proportion to immediate provocations), and in the short-term treatment of hyperactive children who show excessive motor activity with accompanying conduct disorders consisting of some or all of the following symptoms: impulsivity, difficulty sustaining attention, aggressivity, mood lability and poor frustration tolerance. INDICATIONS AND USAGE For the treatment of schizophrenia; to control nausea and vomiting; for relief of restlessness and apprehension before surgery; for acute intermittent porphyria; as an adjunct in the treatment of tetanus; to control the manifestations of the manic type of manic-depressive illness; for relief of intractable hiccups; for the treatment of severe behavioral problems in children (1 to 12 years of age) marked by combativeness and/or explosive hyperexcitable behavior (out of proportion to immediate provocations), and in the short-term treatment of hyperactive children who show excessive motor activity with accompanying conduct disorders consisting of some or all of the following symptoms: impulsivity, difficulty sustaining attention, aggressivity, mood lability, and poor frustration tolerance. INDICATIONS & USAGE For the treatment of schizophrenia; to control nausea and vomiting; for relief of restlessness and apprehension before surgery; for acute intermittent porphyria; as an adjunct in the treatment of tetanus; to control the manifestations of the manic type of manic-depressive illness; for relief of intractable hiccups; for the treatment of severe behavioral problems in children (1 to 12 years of age) marked by combativeness and/or explosive hyperexcitable behavior (out of proportion to immediate provocations), and in the short-term treatment of hyperactive children who show excessive motor activity with accompanying conduct disorders consisting of some or all of the following symptoms: impulsivity, difficulty sustaining attention, aggressivity, mood lability, and poor frustration tolerance.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION–ADULTS Adjust dosage to individual and the severity of his condition, recognizing that the milligram for milligram potency relationship among all dosage forms has not been precisely established clinically. It is important to increase dosage until symptoms are controlled. Dosage should be increased more gradually in debilitated or emaciated patients. In continued therapy, gradually reduce dosage to the lowest effective maintenance level, after symptoms have been controlled for a reasonable period. The 100 mg and 200 mg tablets are for use in severe neuropsychiatric conditions. Elderly Patients – In general, dosages in the lower range are sufficient for most elderly patients. Since they appear to be more susceptible to hypotension and neuromuscular reactions, such patients should be observed closely. Dosage should be tailored to the individual, response carefully monitored, and dosage adjusted accordingly. Dosage should be increased more gradually in elderly patients. Psychotic Disorders – Increase dosage gradually until symptoms are controlled. Maximum improvement may not be seen for weeks or even months. Continue optimum dosage for 2 weeks; then gradually reduce dosage to the lowest effective maintenance level. Daily dosage of 200 mg is not unusual. Some patients require higher dosages (e.g., 800 mg daily is not uncommon in discharged mental patients). Hospitalized Patients: Acute Schizophrenic or Manic States – It is recommended that initial treatment be with chlorpromazine hydrochloride injection until patient is controlled. Usually patient becomes quiet and co-operative within 24 to 48 hours and oral doses may be substituted and increased until the patient is calm. 500 mg a day is generally sufficient. While gradual increases to 2,000 mg a day or more may be necessary, there is usually little therapeutic gain to be achieved by exceeding 1,000 mg a day for extended periods. In general, dosage levels should be lower in the elderly, the emaciated and the debilitated. Less Acutely Disturbed – 25 mg t.i.d. Increase gradually until effective dose is reached – usually 400 mg daily. Outpatients – 10 mg t.i.d. or q.i.d., or 25 mg b.i.d. or t.i.d. More Severe Cases – 25 mg t.i.d. After 1 or 2 days, daily dosage may be increased by 20 to 50 mg at semi-weekly intervals until patient becomes calm and cooperative. Prompt Control of Severe Symptoms – Initial treatment should be with intramuscular chlorpromazine. Subsequent doses should be oral, 25 to 50 mg t.i.d. Nausea and Vomiting – 10 to 25 mg q4 to 6h, p.r.n., increased, if necessary. Presurgical Apprehension – 25 to 50 mg, 2 to 3 hours before the operation. Intractable Hiccups – 25 to 50 mg t.i.d. or q.i.d. If symptoms persist for 2 to 3 days, parenteral therapy is indicated. Acute Intermittent Porphyria – 25 to 50 mg t.i.d. Can usually be discontinued after several weeks, but maintenance therapy may be necessary for some patients. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION – PEDIATRIC PATIENTS (6 months to 12 years of age) Chlorpromazine should generally not be used in pediatric patients under 6 months of age except where potentially lifesaving. It should not be used in conditions for which specific pediatric dosages have not been established. Severe Behavioral Problems Outpatients – Select route of administration according to severity of patient's condition and increase dosage gradually as required. Oral: ¼ mg/lb body weight q4 to 6h, p.r.n. (e.g., for 40 lb child – 10 mg q4 to 6h). Hospitalized Patients – As with outpatients, start with low doses and increase dosage gradually. In severe behavior disorders higher dosages (50 to 100 mg daily and in older children, 200 mg daily or more) may be necessary. There is little evidence that behavior improvement in severely disturbed mentally retarded patients is further enhanced by doses beyond 500 mg per day. Nausea and Vomiting – Dosage and frequency of administration should be adjusted according to the severity of the symptoms and response of the patient. The duration of activity following intramuscular administration may last up to 12 hours. Subsequent doses may be given by the same route if necessary. Oral: ¼ mg/lb body weight (e.g., 40 lb child – 10 mg q4 to 6h). Presurgical Apprehension – ¼ mg/lb body weight orally 2 to 3 hours before operation. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults Adjust dosage to individual and the severity of his condition, recognizing that the milligram for milligram potency relationship among all dosage forms has not been precisely established clinically. Elderly Patients In general, dosages in the lower range are sufficient for most elderly patients. Since theyappear to be more susceptible to hypotension and neuromuscular reactions, such patients should be observed closely. Psychotic Disorders Increase dosage gradually until symptoms are controlled. Hospitalized Patients Acute Schizophrenic or Manic States It is recommended that initial treatment be with chlorpromazine hydrochloride injection until patient is controlled. Usually patient becomes quiet and cooperative within 24 to 48 hours and oral doses may be substituted and increased until the patient is calm. Less Acutely Disturbed Oral: 25 mg t.i.d. Outpatients 10 mg t.i.d. More Severe Cases 25 mg t.i.d. After 1 or 2 days, daily dosage may be increased by 20 to 50 mg at semiweekly intervals until patient becomes calm and cooperative. Prompt Control of Severe Symptoms Initial treatment should be with intramuscular chlorpromazine hydrochloride. Nausea and Vomiting 10 to 25 mg q4 to 6h, p.r.n., increased, if necessary. Presurgical Apprehension 25 to 50 mg, 2 to 3 hours before the operation. Intractable Hiccups 25 to 50 mg t.i.d. Acute Intermittent Porphyria 25 to 50 mg t.i.d. Pediatric Patients (6 Months To 12 Years of Age) Chlorpromazine hydrochloride should generally not be used in pediatric patients under 6 months of age except where potentially lifesaving. Severe Behavioral Problems Outpatients Select route of administration according to severity of patient's condition and increase dosage gradually as required. Hospitalized Patients As with outpatients, start with low doses and increase dosage gradually. In severe behavior disorders, higher dosages (50 to 100 mg daily, and in older children, 200 mg daily or more) may be necessary. Nausea and Vomiting Dosage and frequency of administration should be adjusted according to the severity of the symptoms and response of the patient. Presurgical Apprehension ¼ mg/lb body weight, orally 2 to 3 hours before operation. Note on Concentrate When the Concentrate is to be used, add the desired dosage of Concentrate to 60 mL (2 fl oz) or more of diluent just prior to administration. This will insure palatability and stability. Vehicles suggested for dilution are: tomato or fruit juice, milk, simple syrup, orange syrup, carbonated beverages, coffee, tea or water. Semisolid foods (soups, puddings, etc.) may be used. The Oral Concentrate is light sensitive; it should be protected from light and dispensed in amber glass bottles. Refrigeration is not required. Increase parenteral dosage only if hypotension has not occurred. Before using intramuscularly, see Important Notes on Injection . Hospitalized Patients: Acute Schizophrenic or Manic States Intramuscular: 25 mg (1 mL). If necessary, give additional 25 to 50 mg injection in 1 hour. Increase subsequent intramuscular doses gradually over several days–up to 400 mg q4 to 6h in exceptionally severe cases–until patient is controlled. Usually the patient becomes quiet and cooperative within 24 to 48 hours and oral doses may be substituted. Prompt Control of Severe Symptoms Intramuscular: 25 mg (1 mL). If necessary, repeat in 1 hour. Subsequent doses should be oral, 25 to 50 mg tid. NAUSEA AND VOMITING Intramuscular: 25 mg (1 mL). If no hypotension occurs, give 25 to 50 mg q3 to 4h prn, until vomiting stops. Then switch to oral dosage. During Surgery Intramuscular: 12.5 mg (0.5 mL). Repeat in 1 / 2 hour if necessary and if no hypotension occurs. Intravenous: 2 mg per fractional injection, at 2-minute intervals. Do not exceed 25 mg. Dilute to 1 mg / mL, i.e., 1 mL (25 mg) mixed with 24 mL of saline. PRESURGICAL APPREHENSION Intramuscular : 12.5 to 25 mg (0.5 to 1 mL), 1 to 2 hours before operation. INTRACTABLE HICCUPS If symptoms persist for 2 to 3 days after trial with oral therapy, give 25 to 50 mg (1 to 2 mL) intramuscularly. Should symptoms persist, use slow intravenous infusion with patient flat in bed: 25 to 50 mg (1 to 2 mL) in 500 to 1,000 mL of saline. Follow blood pressure closely. ACUTE INTERMITTENT PORPHYRIA Intramuscular : 25 mg (1 mL) tid or qid until patient can take oral therapy. TETANUS Intramuscular : 25 to 50 mg (1 to 2 mL) given 3 or 4 times daily, usually in conjunction with barbiturates. Total doses and frequency of administration must be determined by the patient’s response, starting with low doses and increasing gradually. Intravenous: 25 to 50 mg (1 to 2 mL). Dilute to at least 1 mg per mL and administer at a rate of 1 mg per minute. Pediatric Patients (6 months to 12 years of age) Chlorpromazine should generally not be used in pediatric patients under 6 months of age except where potentially lifesaving. SEVERE BEHAVIORAL PROBLEMS Outpatients Select route of administration according to severity of patient’s condition and increase dosage gradually as required. Intramuscular: 1 / 4 mg / lb body weight q6 to 8h, prn. Maximum Intramuscular Dosage: Patients up to 5 years (or 50 lbs.), not over 40 mg / day; 5 to 12 years (or 50 to 100 lbs.), not over 75 mg / day except in unmanageable cases. Maximum Intramuscular Dosage: Pediatric patients 6 months to 5 years (or 50 lbs.), not over 40 mg / day; 5 to 12 years (or 50 to 100 lbs.), not over 75 mg / day except in severe cases. During Surgery Intramuscular: 1 / 8 mg / lb body weight. Intravenous: 1 mg per fractional injection at 2-minute intervals and not exceeding recommended intramuscular dosage. Always dilute to 1 mg / mL, i.e., 1 mL (25 mg) mixed with 24 mL of saline. PRESURGICAL APPREHENSION 1 / 4 mg / lb body weight Intramuscular 1 to 2 hours before operation. TETANUS Intramuscular or Intravenous: 1 / 4 mg / lb body weight q6 to 8h. When given intravenously, dilute to at least 1 mg / mL and administer at a rate of 1 mg per 2 minutes. In patients up to 50 lbs., do not exceed 40 mg daily; 50 to 100 lbs., do not exceed 75 mg except in severe cases. Important Notes on Injection Inject slowly, deep into upper outer quadrant of buttock. Because of possible hypotensive effects, reserve parenteral administration for bedfast patients or for acute ambulatory cases, and keep patient lying down for at least 1 / 2 hour after injection. If irritation is a problem, dilute injection with saline or 2% procaine; mixing with other agents in the syringe is not recommended. Subcutaneous injection is not advised. AVOID INJECTING UNDILUTED CHLORPROMAZINE HYDROCHLORIDE INJECTION INTO VEIN. INTRAVENOUS ROUTE IS ONLY FOR SEVERE HICCUPS, SURGERY AND TETANUS. Because of the possibility of contact dermatitis, avoid getting solution on hands or clothing. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Before using IM, see - Important Notes On Injection . Hospitalized Patients: Acute Schizophrenic or Manic States IM: 25 mg (1 mL). Increase subsequent IM doses gradually over several days–up to 400 mg q4-6h in exceptionally severe cases–until patient is controlled. Prompt Control of Severe Symptoms IM: 25 mg (1 mL). Subsequent doses should be oral, 25-50 mg tid. NAUSEA AND VOMITING IM: 25 mg (1 mL). If no hypotension occurs, give 25 to 50 mg q3-4h prn, until vomiting stops. During Surgery IM: 12.5 mg (0.5 mL). Repeat in 1/2 hour if necessary and if no hypotension occurs. IV: 2 mg per fractional injection, at 2-minute intervals. Dilute to 1 mg/mL, i.e., 1 mL (25 mg) mixed with 24 mL of saline. PRESURGICAL APPREHENSION IM: 12.5 to 25 mg (0.5-1 mL), 1 to 2 hours before operation. INTRACTABLE HICCUPS If symptoms persist for 2-3 days after trial with oral therapy, give 25 to 50 mg (1-2 mL) IM. Should symptoms persist, use slow IV infusion with patient flat in bed: 25 to 50 mg (1-2 mL) in 500 to 1000 mL of saline. ACUTE INTERMITTENT PORPHYRIA IM: 25 mg (1 mL) tid or qid until patient can take oral therapy. TETANUS IM : 25 to 50 mg (1-2 mL) given 3 or 4 times daily, usually in conjunction with barbiturates. IV: 25 to 50 mg (1-2 mL). IM: 1/4 mg/lb body weight q6-8h, prn. In severe behavior disorders, higher dosages (50-100 mg daily, and in older children, 200 mg daily or more) may be necessary. Maximum IM Dosage: Patients up to 5 years (or 50 lbs.), not over 40 mg/day; 5-12 years (or 50-100 lbs.), not over 75 mg/day except in unmanageable cases. Maximum IM Dosage: Pediatric patients 6 months to 5 years (or 50 lbs.), not over 40 mg/day; 5-12 years (or 50-100 lbs.), not over 75 mg/day except in severe cases. During Surgery IM : 1/8 mg/lb body weight. IV: 1 mg per fractional injection at 2-minute intervals and not exceeding recommended IM dosage. Always dilute to 1 mg/mL, i.e., 1 mL (25 mg) mixed with 24 mL of saline. PRESURGICAL APPREHENSION 1/4 mg/lb body weight IM 1 to 2 hours before operation. TETANUS IM or IV: 1/4 mg/lb body weight q6-8h. When given IV, dilute to at least 1 mg/mL and administer at a rate of 1 mg per 2 minutes. Because of possible hypotensive effects, reserve parenteral administration for bedfast patients or for acute ambulatory cases, and keep patient lying down for at least 1/2 hour after injection. IV ROUTE IS ONLY FOR SEVERE HICCUPS, SURGERY AND TETANUS. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION – ADULTS Adjust dosage to individual and the severity of his condition, recognizing that the milligram for milligram potency relationship among all dosage forms has not been precisely established clinically. Elderly Patients - In general, dosages in the lower range are sufficient for most elderly patients. Psychotic Disorders - Increase dosage gradually until symptoms are controlled. Hospitalized Patients: Acute Schizophrenic or Manic States - It is recommended that initial treatment be with chlorpromazine HCl injection until patient is controlled. Less Acutely Disturbed - 25 mg t.i.d. Outpatients - 10 mg t.i.d. More Severe Cases - 25 mg t.i.d. Prompt Control of Severe Symptoms - Initial treatment should be with intramuscular chlorpromazine. Nausea and Vomiting - 10 to 25 mg q4 to 6h, p.r.n., increased, if necessary. Presurgical Apprehension - 25 to 50 mg, 2 to 3 hours before the operation. Intractable Hiccups - 25 to 50 mg t.i.d. Acute Intermittent Porphyria - 25 to 50 mg t.i.d. Severe Behavioral Problems Outpatients - Select route of administration according to severity of patient’s condition and increase dosage gradually as required. Hospitalized Patients - As with outpatients, start with low doses and increase dosage gradually. Nausea and Vomiting - Dosage and frequency of administration should be adjusted according to the severity of the symptoms and response of the patient. Presurgical Apprehension - ¼ mg/lb body weight orally 2 to 3 hours before operation. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION-ADULTS Adjust dosage to individual and the severity of his condition, recognizing that the milligram for milligram potency relationship among all dosage forms has not been precisely established clinically. Maximum mprovement may not be seen for weeks or even months. Hospitalized Patients: Acute Schizophrenic or Manic States – It is recommended that initial treatment be with chlorpromazine HCI injection until patient is controlled. Nausea and Vomiting– 10 to 25 mg q4 to 6h, p.r.n., increased, if necessary. Presurgical Apprehension– 25 to 50 mg, 2 to 3 hours before the operation. Intractable Hiccups– 25 to 50 mg t.i.d. Acute Intermittent Porphyria– 25 to 50 mg t.i.d. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults Adjust dosage to individual and the severity of his condition, recognizing that the milligram for milligram potency relationship among all dosage forms has not been precisely established clinically. Before using Intramuscular, see Important Notes On Injection . Hospitalized Patients: Acute Schizophrenic or Manic States Intramuscular : 25 mg (1 mL). Increase subsequent Intramuscular doses gradually over several days–up to 400 mg q4-6h in exceptionally severe cases–until patient is controlled. Prompt Control of Severe Symptoms Intramuscular : 25 mg (1 mL). PRESURGICAL APPREHENSION Intramuscular: 12.5 to 25 mg (0.5 to 1 mL), 1 to 2 hours before operation. INTRACTABLE HICCUPS If symptoms persist for 2 to 3 days after trial with oral therapy, give 25 to 50 mg (1 to 2 mL) Intramuscular. Should symptoms persist, use slow Intravenous infusion with patient flat in bed: 25 to 50 mg (1 to 2 mL) in 500 to 1000 mL of saline. TETANUS Intramuscular: 25 to 50 mg (1 to 2 mL) given 3 or 4 times daily, usually in conjunction with barbiturates. Intramuscular: 1/4 mg/lb body weight q6-8h, prn. Maximum Intramuscular Dosage : Patients up to 5 years (or 50 lbs.), not over 40 mg/day; 5 to12 years (or 50 to 100 lbs.), not over 75 mg/day except in unmanageable cases. Maximum Intramuscular Dosage: Pediatric patients 6 months to 5 years (or 50 lbs.), not over 40 mg/day; 5 to 12 years (or 50 to100 lbs.), not over 75 mg/day except in severe cases. During Surgery Intramuscular : 1/8 mg/lb body weight. Intravenous : 1 mg per fractional injection at 2-minute intervals and not exceeding recommended Intramuscular dosage. PRESURGICAL APPREHENSION 1/4 mg/lb body weight Intramuscular 1 to 2 hours before operation. TETANUS Intramuscular or Intravenous: 1/4 mg/lb body weight q6-8h. When given Intravenous, dilute to at least 1 mg/mL and administer at a rate of 1 mg per 2 minutes. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adjust dosage to individual and the severity of his condition, recognizing that the milligram for milligram potency relationship among all dosage forms has not been precisely established clinically. After 1 or 2 days, daily dosage may be increased by 20 mg to 50 mg at semi-weekly intervals until patient becomes calm and cooperative. Subsequent doses should be oral, 25 mg to 50 mg t.i.d. Nausea and Vomiting – 10 mg to 25 mg q4 to 6h, p.r.n., increased, if necessary. Presurgical Apprehension – 25 mg to 50 mg, 2 to 3 hours before the operation. Intractable Hiccups – 25 mg to 50 mg t.i.d. Acute Intermittent Porphyria – 25 mg to 50 mg t.i.d. In severe behavior disorders higher dosages (50 mg to 100 mg daily and in older children, 200 mg daily or more) may be necessary. Presurgical Apprehension –¼ mg/lb body weight orally 2 to 3 hours before operation.
Warnings: WARNINGS Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. Chlorpromazine hydrochloride is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis (see BOXED WARNING ). The extrapyramidal symptoms which can occur secondary to chlorpromazine may be confused with the central nervous system signs of an undiagnosed primary disease responsible for the vomiting, e.g., Reye's syndrome or other encephalopathy. The use of chlorpromazine and other potential hepatotoxins should be avoided in children and adolescents whose signs and symptoms suggest Reye's syndrome. Tardive Dyskinesia: Tardive dyskinesia, a syndrome consisting of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements, may develop in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs. Although the prevalence of the syndrome appears to be highest among the elderly, especially elderly women, it is impossible to rely upon prevalence estimates to predict, at the inception of antipsychotic treatment, which patients are likely to develop the syndrome. Whether antipsychotic drug products differ in their potential to cause tardive dyskinesia is unknown. Both the risk of developing the syndrome and the likelihood that it will become irreversible are believed to increase as the duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose of antipsychotic drugs administered to the patient increase. However, the syndrome can develop, although much less commonly, after relatively brief treatment periods at low doses. There is no known treatment for established cases of tardive dyskinesia, although the syndrome may remit, partially or completely, if antipsychotic treatment is withdrawn. Antipsychotic treatment itself, however, may suppress (or partially suppress) the signs and symptoms of the syndrome and therapy may possibly mask the underlying disease process. The effect that symptomatic suppression has upon the long-term course of the syndrome is unknown. Given these considerations, antipsychotics should be prescribed in a manner that is most likely to minimize the occurrence of tardive dyskinesia. Chronic antipsychotic treatment should generally be reserved for patients who suffer from a chronic illness that, 1) is known to respond to antipsychotic drugs, and, 2) for whom alternative, equally effective, but potentially less harmful treatments are not available or appropriate. In patients who do require chronic treatment, the smallest dose and the shortest duration of treatment producing a satisfactory clinical response should be sought. The need for continued treatment should be reassessed periodically. If signs and symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear in a patient on antipsychotics, drug discontinuation should be considered. However, some patients may require treatment despite the presence of the syndrome. For further information about the description of tardive dyskinesia and its clinical detection, please refer to the sections on PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS . Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS): A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs. Clinical manifestations of NMS are hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status and evidence of autonomic instability (irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, and cardiac dysrhythmias). The diagnostic evaluation of patients with this syndrome is complicated. In arriving at a diagnosis, it is important to identify cases where the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness (e.g., pneumonia, systemic infection, etc.) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms (EPS). Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity, heat stroke, drug fever and primary central nervous system (CNS) pathology. The management of NMS should include 1) immediate discontinuation of antipsychotic drugs and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy, 2) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring, and 3) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. There is no general agreement about specific pharmacological treatment regimens for uncomplicated NMS. If a patient requires antipsychotic drug treatment after recovery from NMS, the potential reintroduction of drug therapy should be carefully considered. The patient should be carefully monitored, since recurrences of NMS have been reported. An encephalopathic syndrome (characterized by weakness, lethargy, fever, tremulousness and confusion, extrapyramidal symptoms, leukocytosis, elevated serum enzymes, BUN and FBS) has occurred in a few patients treated with lithium plus an antipsychotic. In some instances, the syndrome was followed by irreversible brain damage. Because of a possible causal relationship between these events and the concomitant administration of lithium and antipsychotics, patients receiving such combined therapy should be monitored closely for early evidence of neurologic toxicity and treatment discontinued promptly if such signs appear. This encephalopathic syndrome may be similar to or the same as neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS). Patients with bone marrow depression or who have previously demonstrated a hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., blood dyscrasias, jaundice) with a phenothiazine, should not receive any phenothiazine, including chlorpromazine, unless in the judgment of the physician the potential benefits of treatment outweigh the possible hazard. Chlorpromazine may impair mental and/or physical abilities, especially during the first few days of therapy. Therefore, caution patients about activities requiring alertness (e.g., operating vehicles or machinery). The use of alcohol with this drug should be avoided due to possible additive effects and hypotension. Chlorpromazine may counteract the antihypertensive effect of guanethidine and related compounds. Falls Chlorpromazine may cause somnolence, postural hypotension, motor and sensory instability, which may lead to falls and, consequently, fractures or other injuries. For patients with diseases, conditions, or medications that could exacerbate these effects, complete fall risk assessments when initiating antipsychotic treatment and recurrently for patients on long-term antipsychotic therapy. Usage in Pregnancy: Safety for the use of chlorpromazine during pregnancy has not been established. Therefore, it is not recommended that the drug be given to pregnant patients except when, in the judgment of the physician, it is essential. The potential benefits should clearly outweigh possible hazards. There are reported instances of prolonged jaundice, extrapyramidal signs, hyperreflexia or hyporeflexia in newborn infants whose mothers received phenothiazines. Reproductive studies in rodents have demonstrated potential for embryotoxicity, increased neonatal mortality and nursing transfer of the drug. Tests in the offspring of the drug–treated rodents demonstrate decreased performance. The possibility of permanent neurological damage cannot be excluded. Non-teratogenic Effects: Neonates exposed to antipsychotic drugs, during the third trimester of pregnancy are at risk for extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms following delivery. There have been reports of agitation, hypertonia, hypotonia, tremor, somnolence, respiratory distress and feeding disorder in these neonates. These complications have varied in severity; while in some cases symptoms have been self-limited, in other cases neonates have required intensive care unit support and prolonged hospitalization. Chlorpromazine Hydrochloride should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Nursing Mothers: There is evidence that chlorpromazine is excreted in the breast milk of nursing mothers. Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from chlorpromazine, a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother. The extrapyramidal symptoms which can occur secondary to chlorpromazine hydrochloride may be confused with the central nervous system signs of an undiagnosed primary disease responsible for the vomiting, e.g., Reye's syndrome or other encephalopathy. The use of chlorpromazine hydrochloride and other potential hepatotoxins should be avoided in children and adolescents whose signs and symptoms suggest Reye's syndrome. Tardive Dyskinesia Tardive dyskinesia, a syndrome consisting of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements, may develop in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs. Antipsychotic treatment itself, however, may suppress (or partially suppress) the signs and symptoms of the syndrome and thereby may possibly mask the underlying disease process. Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs. Clinical manifestations of NMS are hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status and evidence of autonomic instability (irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis and cardiac dysrhythmias). Patients with bone marrow depression or who have previously demonstrated a hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., blood dyscrasias, jaundice) with a phenothiazine should not receive any phenothiazine, including chlorpromazine hydrochloride, unless in the judgment of the physician the potential benefits of treatment outweigh the possible hazard. Chlorpromazine hydrochloride may impair mental and/or physical abilities, especially during the first few days of therapy. Chlorpromazine hydrochloride may counteract the antihypertensive effect of guanethidine and related compounds. Falls Chlorpromazine hydrochloride may cause somnolence, postural hypotension, motor and sensory instability, which may lead to falls and, consequently, fractures or other injuries. Usage in Pregnancy Safety for the use of chlorpromazine hydrochloride during pregnancy has not been established. Tests in the offspring of the drug-treated rodents demonstrate decreased performance. Non-teratogenic Effects Neonates exposed to antipsychotic drugs, during the third trimester of pregnancy are at risk for extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms following delivery. Nursing Mothers There is evidence that chlorpromazine hydrochloride is excreted in the breast milk of nursing mothers. Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from chlorpromazine hydrochloride, a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother. Chlorpromazine hydrochloride injection is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis ( see BOXED WARNING ). The extrapyramidal symptoms which can occur secondary to chlorpromazine may be confused with the central nervous system signs of an undiagnosed primary disease responsible for the vomiting, e.g., Reye’s syndrome or other encephalopathy. The use of chlorpromazine and other potential hepatotoxins should be avoided in children and adolescents whose signs and symptoms suggest Reye’s syndrome. Chlorpromazine hydrochloride injection contains sodium metabisulfite and sodium sulfite, sulfites that may cause allergic-type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people. The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low. Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people. The management of NMS should include 1) immediate discontinuation of antipsychotic drugs and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy, 2) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring and 3) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. Patients with bone marrow depression or who have previously demonstrated a hypersensitivity reaction (e.g., blood dyscrasias, jaundice) with a phenothiazine should not receive any phenothiazine, including chlorpromazine, unless in the judgment of the physician the potential benefits of treatment outweigh the possible hazard. Falls Chlorpromazine hydrochloride injection may cause somnolence, postural hypotension, motor and sensory instability, which may lead to falls and, consequently, fractures or other injuries. Pregnancy NON-TERATOGENIC EFFECTS Neonates exposed to antipsychotic drugs, during the third trimester of pregnancy are at risk for extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms following delivery. Usage in Pregnancy Safety for the use of chlorpromazine during pregnancy has not been established. Nursing Mothers There is evidence that chlorpromazine is excreted in the breast milk of nursing mothers. Chlorpromazine Hydrochloride Injection, USP is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis (see BOXED WARNINGS ). The use of chlorpromazine and other potential hepatotoxins should be avoided in children and adolescents whose signs and symptoms suggest Reye’s syndrome . Chlorpromazine hydrochloride is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis [see BOXED WARNING] . For further information about the description of tardive dyskinesia and its clinical detection, please refer to the sections on PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS. Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) : A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs. Chlorpromazine hydrochloride is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis (see BOXED WARNING). Chlorpromazine Hydrochloride Injection, USP is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis (see BOXED WARNING ).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not use in patients with known hypersensitivity to phenothiazines. Do not use in comatose states or in the presence of large amounts of central nervous system depressants (alcohol, barbiturates, narcotics, etc.).

=== PIPERONYL BUTOXIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Treatment head, pubic (crab), and body lice Purposes Lice Treatment Purpose Lice treatment
Indications: ​Uses ​ ​Uses treats head lice, pubic (crab) lice, and body lice Uses treats head, pubic (crab), and body lice
Dosage: ​ ​Directions ​Important: Read warnings before use. adults and children 2 years and over: Inspect check each household member with a magnifying glass in bright light for lice/nits (eggs) look for tiny nits near scalp, beginin at back of neck and behind ears examine small sections of hair at a time unlike dandruff which moves when touched, nits stick to the hair if either lice or nits are found, treat with this product ​Treat apply thoroughly to dry hair or other affected area. For head lice, first apply behind ears and to back of neck. allow product to remain for 10 minutes, but no longer use warm water to form a lather, shampoo, then thoroughly rinse for head lice, towel dry hair and comb out tangles. ​Remove lice and their eggs (nits) use a fine-tooth or special lice/nit comb. Remove any remaining nits by hand (using a throw-away glove.) hair should remain slightly damp while removing nits if hair dries during combing dampen slightly with water for head lice, part hair into sections. Do one section at a time starting on top of head. Longer hair may take 1 to 2 hours. life a 1- to 2- inch wide strand of hair. Place comb as close to scalp as possible and comb with a firm, even motion away from scalp. Pin back each strand of hair after combing clean comb often. Wipe nits away with tissue and discard in a plastic bag. Seal bag and discard to prevent lice froom coming back. after combing, thoroughly recheck for lice/nits. Repeat combing if necessary. a second treatment must be done in 7 to 10 days to kill any newly hatched lice If infestation continues, see a doctor for other treatments. ​children under 2 years: ​ aska doctor Directions Important: Read warnings before use Adults and children 2 years and over Inspect check each household member with a magnifying glass in bright light for lice/nits (eggs) look for tiny nits near scalp, beginning at back of neck and behind ears examine small sections of hair at a time unlike dandruff which moves when touched, nits stick to the hair if either lice or nits are found, treat with this product Treat apply thoroughly to DRY HAIR or other affected area. allow product to remain for 10 minutes, but no longer use warm water to form a lather, shampoo, then thoroughly rinse for head lice, towel dry hair and comb out tangles Remove lice and their eggs (nits) se a fine-tooth or special lice/nit comb. Remove any remaining nits by hand (using a throw-away glove). hair should remain slightly damp while removing nits if hair dries during combing, dampen slightly with water for head lice, part hair into sections. Do one section at a time starting on top of the head. lift a 1-to 2-inch wide strand of hair. Seal bag and discard to prevent lice from coming back. check daily for any lice/nits that you missed a second treatment must be done in 7 to 10 days to kill any newly hatched lice if infestation continues, see a doctor for other treatments Children under 2 years: ask a doctor Inspect check each household member with a magnifying glass in bright light for lice/nits (eggs) look for tiny nits near scalp, beginning at back of neck and behind ears examine small sections of hair at a time unlike dandruff which moves when touched, nits stick to the hair if either lice or nits are found, treat with this product Treat apply thoroughly to DRY HAIR or other affected area. allow product to remain for 10 minutes, but no longer use warm water to form a lather, shampoo, then thoroughly rinse for head lice, towel dry hair and comb out tangles Remove lice and their eggs (nits) se a fine-tooth or special lice/nit comb. Directions Important: Read warnings before use Adults and children 2 years and over: Inspect check each household member with a magnifying glass in bright light for lice/nits (eggs) look for tiny nits near scalp, beginning at back of neck and behind ears examine small sections of hair at a time unlike dandruff which moves when touched, nits stick to the hair if either lice or nits are found, treat with this product Treat apply thoroughly to DRY HAIR or other affected area. allow product to remain for 10 minutes, but no longer use warm water to form a lather, shampoo, then thoroughly rinse for head lice, towel dry hair and comb out tangles Remove lice and their eggs (nits) use a fine-tooth or special lice/nit comb. check daily for any lice/nits that you missed a second treatment must be done in 7 to 10 days to kill any newly hatched lice if infestation continues, see a doctor for other treatments Children under 2 years : ask a doctor
Warnings: ​Warnings ​ For external use only. Do not use near eyes inside nose, mouth or vagina on lice in eyebrows or eyelashes. See a doctor if lice are present in these areas. Ask a doctor before us if you are allergic to ragweed, May cause breathing difficulty or an asthmatic attack. When using this product keep eyes tightly closed and protect eyes with a washcloth or towel if product gets in eyes, flush with water right away scalp itching or redness may occur. Stop use and ask doctor if breathing difficulty occurs eye irrirtation occurs skin or scalp irritation continues or infection occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Do not use near eyes inside nose, mouth, or vagina on lice in eyebrows or eyelashes. if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask doctor before use if you are allergic to ragweed. May cause breathing difficulty or an asthmatic attack When using this product keep eyes tightly closed and protect eyes with a washcloth or towel if product gets into eyes, flush with water right away scalp itching or redness may occur Stop and ask a doctor if breathing difficulty occurs eye irritation occurs skin or scalp irritation continues or infection occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Ask a doctor before use if you are allergic to ragweed. May cause breathing difficulty or an asthmatic attack. When using this product keep eyes tightly closed and protect eyes with a washcloth or towel if product gets into eyes, flush with water right away scalp itching or redness may occur Stop use and ask a doctor if breathing difficulty occurs eye irritation occurs skin or scalp irritation continues or infection occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.

=== PYRETHRUM EXTRACT ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Treatment head, pubic (crab), and body lice Purposes Lice Treatment Purpose Lice treatment
Indications: ​Uses ​ ​Uses treats head lice, pubic (crab) lice, and body lice Uses treats head, pubic (crab), and body lice
Dosage: ​ ​Directions ​Important: Read warnings before use. adults and children 2 years and over: Inspect check each household member with a magnifying glass in bright light for lice/nits (eggs) look for tiny nits near scalp, beginin at back of neck and behind ears examine small sections of hair at a time unlike dandruff which moves when touched, nits stick to the hair if either lice or nits are found, treat with this product ​Treat apply thoroughly to dry hair or other affected area. For head lice, first apply behind ears and to back of neck. allow product to remain for 10 minutes, but no longer use warm water to form a lather, shampoo, then thoroughly rinse for head lice, towel dry hair and comb out tangles. ​Remove lice and their eggs (nits) use a fine-tooth or special lice/nit comb. Remove any remaining nits by hand (using a throw-away glove.) hair should remain slightly damp while removing nits if hair dries during combing dampen slightly with water for head lice, part hair into sections. Do one section at a time starting on top of head. Longer hair may take 1 to 2 hours. life a 1- to 2- inch wide strand of hair. Place comb as close to scalp as possible and comb with a firm, even motion away from scalp. Pin back each strand of hair after combing clean comb often. Wipe nits away with tissue and discard in a plastic bag. Seal bag and discard to prevent lice froom coming back. after combing, thoroughly recheck for lice/nits. Repeat combing if necessary. a second treatment must be done in 7 to 10 days to kill any newly hatched lice If infestation continues, see a doctor for other treatments. ​children under 2 years: ​ aska doctor Directions Important: Read warnings before use Adults and children 2 years and over Inspect check each household member with a magnifying glass in bright light for lice/nits (eggs) look for tiny nits near scalp, beginning at back of neck and behind ears examine small sections of hair at a time unlike dandruff which moves when touched, nits stick to the hair if either lice or nits are found, treat with this product Treat apply thoroughly to DRY HAIR or other affected area. allow product to remain for 10 minutes, but no longer use warm water to form a lather, shampoo, then thoroughly rinse for head lice, towel dry hair and comb out tangles Remove lice and their eggs (nits) se a fine-tooth or special lice/nit comb. Remove any remaining nits by hand (using a throw-away glove). hair should remain slightly damp while removing nits if hair dries during combing, dampen slightly with water for head lice, part hair into sections. Do one section at a time starting on top of the head. lift a 1-to 2-inch wide strand of hair. Seal bag and discard to prevent lice from coming back. check daily for any lice/nits that you missed a second treatment must be done in 7 to 10 days to kill any newly hatched lice if infestation continues, see a doctor for other treatments Children under 2 years: ask a doctor Inspect check each household member with a magnifying glass in bright light for lice/nits (eggs) look for tiny nits near scalp, beginning at back of neck and behind ears examine small sections of hair at a time unlike dandruff which moves when touched, nits stick to the hair if either lice or nits are found, treat with this product Treat apply thoroughly to DRY HAIR or other affected area. allow product to remain for 10 minutes, but no longer use warm water to form a lather, shampoo, then thoroughly rinse for head lice, towel dry hair and comb out tangles Remove lice and their eggs (nits) se a fine-tooth or special lice/nit comb. Directions Important: Read warnings before use Adults and children 2 years and over: Inspect check each household member with a magnifying glass in bright light for lice/nits (eggs) look for tiny nits near scalp, beginning at back of neck and behind ears examine small sections of hair at a time unlike dandruff which moves when touched, nits stick to the hair if either lice or nits are found, treat with this product Treat apply thoroughly to DRY HAIR or other affected area. allow product to remain for 10 minutes, but no longer use warm water to form a lather, shampoo, then thoroughly rinse for head lice, towel dry hair and comb out tangles Remove lice and their eggs (nits) use a fine-tooth or special lice/nit comb. check daily for any lice/nits that you missed a second treatment must be done in 7 to 10 days to kill any newly hatched lice if infestation continues, see a doctor for other treatments Children under 2 years : ask a doctor
Warnings: ​Warnings ​ For external use only. Do not use near eyes inside nose, mouth or vagina on lice in eyebrows or eyelashes. See a doctor if lice are present in these areas. Ask a doctor before us if you are allergic to ragweed, May cause breathing difficulty or an asthmatic attack. When using this product keep eyes tightly closed and protect eyes with a washcloth or towel if product gets in eyes, flush with water right away scalp itching or redness may occur. Stop use and ask doctor if breathing difficulty occurs eye irrirtation occurs skin or scalp irritation continues or infection occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Do not use near eyes inside nose, mouth, or vagina on lice in eyebrows or eyelashes. if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask doctor before use if you are allergic to ragweed. May cause breathing difficulty or an asthmatic attack When using this product keep eyes tightly closed and protect eyes with a washcloth or towel if product gets into eyes, flush with water right away scalp itching or redness may occur Stop and ask a doctor if breathing difficulty occurs eye irritation occurs skin or scalp irritation continues or infection occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Ask a doctor before use if you are allergic to ragweed. May cause breathing difficulty or an asthmatic attack. When using this product keep eyes tightly closed and protect eyes with a washcloth or towel if product gets into eyes, flush with water right away scalp itching or redness may occur Stop use and ask a doctor if breathing difficulty occurs eye irritation occurs skin or scalp irritation continues or infection occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.

=== ROPINIROLE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ropinirole Tablets are a non-ergoline dopamine agonist indicated for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease (PD) and moderate-to-severe primary Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS). (1.1, 1.2). 1.1 Parkinson's Disease Ropinirole tablets are indicated for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease. 1.2 Restless Legs Syndrome Ropinirole tablets are indicated for the treatment of moderate-to-severe primary Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS). ( 1.1 , 1.2 ) 1.1 Parkinson's Disease Ropinirole tablets are indicated for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ropinirole extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease. Ropinirole extended-release tablets are a non-ergoline dopamine agonist indicated for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease. ( 1 ) (1.1, 1.2) 1.1 Parkinson’s Disease Ropinirole tablets are indicated for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ropinirole extended-release tablets are non-ergoline dopamine agonist indicated for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease (1.1) 1.1 Parkinson's Disease Ropinirole extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ropinirole extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Ropinirole extended-release tablets are non-ergoline dopamine agonist indicated for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease. ( 1)
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION · Ropinirole tablets can be taken with or without food. (2.1) · Retitration of ropinirole tablets may be warranted if therapy is interrupted. (2.1) Parkinson’s Disease: · The recommended starting dose is 0.25 mg taken three times daily; titrate to a maximum daily dose of 24 mg. (2.2) · Renal Impairment: The maximum recommended dose is 18 mg/day in patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis. (2.2) Restless Legs Syndrome: · The recommended starting dose is 0.25 mg once daily, 1 to 3 hours before bedtime, titrate to a maximum recommended dose of 4 mg daily. (2.3) · Renal Impairment: The maximum recommended dose is 3 mg/day in patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis. (2.3) 2.1 General Dosing Recommendations Ropinirole tablets can be taken with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . If a significant interruption in therapy with ropinirole tablets have occurred, retitration of therapy may be warranted. 2.2 Dosing for Parkinson's Disease Week Dosage Total Daily Dose 1 0.25 mg 3 times daily 0.75 mg 2 0.5 mg 3 times daily 1.5 mg 3 0.75 mg 3 times daily 2.25 mg 4 1 mg 3 times daily 3 mg Ropinirole tablets should be discontinued gradually over a 7-day period in patients with Parkinson’s disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. The frequency of administration should be reduced from three times daily to twice daily for 4 days. For the remaining 3 days, the frequency should be reduced to once daily prior to complete withdrawal of ropinirole tablets. Renal Impairment No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance of 30 to 50 mL/min). The recommended initial dose of ropinirole for patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis is 0.25 mg three times a day. Further dose escalations should be based on tolerability and need for efficacy. The recommended maximum total daily dose is 18 mg/day in patients receiving regular dialysis. Supplemental doses after dialysis are not required. The use of ropinirole tablets in patients with severe renal impairment without regular dialysis has not been studied. 2.3 Dosing for Restless Legs Syndrome The recommended adult starting dose for RLS is 0.25 mg once daily 1 to 3 hours before bedtime. After 2 days, if necessary, the dose can be increased to 0.5 mg once daily, and to 1 mg once daily at the end of the first week of dosing, then as shown in Table 2 as needed to achieve efficacy. Titration should be based on individual patient therapeutic response and tolerability, up to a maximum recommended dose of 4 mg daily. For RLS, the safety and effectiveness of doses greater than 4 mg once daily have not been established. Table 2. Dose Titration Schedule of ropinirole tablets for Restless Legs Syndrome Day/Week Dose to be taken once daily 1 to 3 hours before bedtime Days 1 and 2 0.25 mg Days 3 to 7 0.5 mg Week 2 1 mg Week 3 1.5 mg Week 4 2 mg Week 5 2.5 mg Week 6 3 mg Week 7 4 mg When discontinuing ropinirole tablets in patients with RLS, gradual reduction of the daily dose is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8, 5.9)]. The recommended initial dose of ropinirole for patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis is 0.25 mg once daily. The recommended maximum total daily dose is 3 mg/day in patients receiving regular dialysis. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Ropinirole tablets can be taken with or without food. ( 2.1 ) Retitration of ropinirole tablets may be warranted if therapy is interrupted. ( 2.1 ) Parkinson’s Disease: The recommended starting dose is 0.25 mg taken three times daily; titrate to a maximum daily dose of 24 mg. ( 2.2 ) Renal Impairment: The maximum recommended dose is 18 mg/day in patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis. ( 2.2 ) Restless Legs Syndrome: The recommended starting dose is 0.25 mg once daily, 1 to 3 hours before bedtime, titrate to a maximum recommended dose of 4 mg daily. ( 2.3 ) Renal Impairment: The maximum recommended dose is 3 mg/day in patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 General Dosing Recommendations Ropinirole tablets can be taken with or without food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. If a significant interruption in therapy with ropinirole tablets has occurred, retitration of therapy may be warranted. 2.2 Dosing for Parkinson's Disease The recommended starting dose of ropinirole tablets for Parkinson’s disease is 0.25 mg 3 times daily. Based on individual patient therapeutic response and tolerability, if necessary, the dose should then be titrated with weekly increments as described in Table 1. After Week 4, if necessary, the daily dose may be increased by 1.5 mg/day on a weekly basis up to a dose of 9 mg/day, and then by up to 3 mg/day weekly up to a maximum recommended total daily dose of 24 mg/day (8 mg 3 times daily). Doses greater than 24 mg/day have not been tested in clinical trials. Table 1. Ascending-Dose Schedule of Ropinirole Tablets for Parkinson’s Disease Week Dosage Total Daily Dose 1 0.25 mg 3 times daily 0.75 mg 2 0.5 mg 3 times daily 1.5 mg 3 0.75 mg 3 times daily 2.25 mg 4 1 mg 3 times daily 3 mg Ropinirole tablets should be discontinued gradually over a 7-day period in patients with Parkinson’s disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] . The frequency of administration should be reduced from 3 times daily to twice daily for 4 days. The recommended initial dose of ropinirole for patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis is 0.25 mg 3 times a day. Dose Titration Schedule of Ropinirole Tablets for Restless Legs Syndrome Day/Week Dose to be taken once daily 1 to 3 hours before bedtime Days 1 and 2 0.25 mg Days 3 to 7 0.5 mg Week 2 1 mg Week 3 1.5 mg Week 4 2 mg Week 5 2.5 mg Week 6 3 mg Week 7 4 mg When discontinuing ropinirole tablets in patients with RLS, gradual reduction of the daily dose is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 , 5.9 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Ropinirole extended-release tablets are taken once daily, with or without food; tablets must be swallowed whole and not be chewed, crushed, or divided. ( 2.1 ) • The recommended starting dose is 2 mg taken once daily for 1 to 2 weeks; the dose should be increased by 2 mg/day at 1 week or longer intervals. The maximum recommended dose of ropinirole extended-release tablets is 24 mg/day. ( 2.2 , 14.2 ) • Renal Impairment: In patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis, the maximum recommended dose is 18 mg/day. ( 2.2 ) • If ropinirole extended-release tablets must be discontinued, it should be tapered gradually over a 7-day period; retitration of ropinirole extended-release tablets may be warranted if therapy is interrupted. ( 2.1 , 2.2 ) • Patients may be switched directly from immediate-release ropinirole to ropinirole extended-release tablets; the initial switching dose of ropinirole extended-release tablets should approximately match the total daily dose of immediate-release ropinirole. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 General Dosing Recommendations • Ropinirole extended-release tablets are taken once daily, with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . • Tablets must be swallowed whole and must not be chewed, crushed, or divided. • If a significant interruption in therapy with ropinirole extended-release tablets has occurred, retitration of therapy may be warranted. 2.2 Dosing for Parkinson’s Disease The recommended starting dose of ropinirole extended-release tablets is 2 mg taken once daily for 1 to 2 weeks, followed by increases of 2 mg/day at weekly or longer intervals, based on therapeutic response and tolerability. Monitor patients at least weekly during dose titration. Too rapid a rate of titration may lead to the selection of a dose that does not provide additional benefit, but increases the risk of adverse reactions. In fixed-dose studies designed to characterize the dose response to ropinirole extended-release tablets, there was no additional therapeutic benefit shown in patients with advanced stage Parkinson’s disease taking daily doses greater than 8 mg/day, or with early stage Parkinson’s disease taking doses greater than 12 mg/day [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 and 14.2 )] . Although the maximum recommended dose of ropinirole extended-release tablets is 24 mg, patients with advanced Parkinson’s disease should generally be maintained at daily doses of 8 mg or lower and patients with early Parkinson’s disease should generally be maintained at daily doses 12 mg or lower. Ropinirole extended-release tablets should be discontinued gradually over a 7-day period [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] . The recommended initial dose of ropinirole extended-release tablets for patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis is 2 mg once daily. The use of ropinirole extended-release tablets in patients with severe renal impairment without regular dialysis has not been studied. 2.3 Switching from Immediate-Release Ropinirole Tablets to Ropinirole Extended-Release Tablets Patients may be switched directly from immediate-release ropinirole to ropinirole extended-release tablets. The initial dose of ropinirole extended-release tablets should approximately match the total daily dose of the immediate-release formulation of ropinirole, as shown in Table 1. Conversion from Immediate-Release Ropinirole Tablets to Ropinirole Extended-Release Tablets Immediate-Release Ropinirole Tablets Total Daily Dose (mg) Ropinirole Extended-Release Tablets Total Daily Dose (mg) 0.75 to 2.25 2 3 to 4.5 4 6 6 7.5 to 9 8 12 12 15 16 18 18 21 20 24 24 Following conversion to ropinirole extended-release tablets, the dose may be adjusted depending on therapeutic response and tolerability [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )] . 2.4 Effect of Gastrointestinal Transit Time on Medication Release Ropinirole extended-release tablets are designed to release medication over a 24-hour period. If rapid gastrointestinal transit occurs, there may be risk of incomplete release of medication and medication residue being passed in the stool. (2.1) Retitration of ropinirole may be warranted if therapy is interrupted. (2.1) Parkinson’s Disease : The recommended starting dose is 0.25 mg taken three times daily; titrate to a maximum daily dose of 24 mg. (2.2) Renal Impairment: The maximum recommended dose is 18 mg/day in patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis. (2.2) Restless Legs Syndrome: The recommended starting dose is 0.25 mg once daily, 1 to 3 hours before bedtime, titrate to a maximum recommended dose of 4 mg daily. (2.3) Renal Impairment: The maximum recommended dose is 3 mg/day in patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis. (2.3) 2.1 General Dosing Recommendations Ropinirole can be taken with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. If a significant interruption in therapy with ropinirole has occurred, retitration of therapy may be warranted. 2.2 Dosing for Parkinson’s Disease The recommended starting dose of ropinirole for Parkinson's disease is 0.25 mg 3 times daily. Ascending-Dose Schedule of Ropinirole for Parkinson's Disease Week Dosage Total Daily Dose 1 0.25 mg 3 times daily 0.75 mg 2 0.5 mg 3 times daily 1.5 mg 3 0.75 mg 3 times daily 2.25 mg 4 1 mg 3 times daily 3 mg Ropinirole should be discontinued gradually over a 7 day period in patients with Parkinson’s disease [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. For the remaining 3 days, the frequency should be reduced to once daily prior to complete withdrawal of ropinirole. The use of ropinirole in patients with severe renal impairment without regular dialysis has not been studied. Dose Titration Schedule of Ropinirole for Restless Legs Syndrome Day/Week Dose to be taken once daily 1 to 3 hours before bedtime Days 1 and 2 0.25 mg Days 3 to 7 0.5 mg Week 2 1 mg Week 3 1.5 mg Week 4 2 mg Week 5 2.5 mg Week 6 3 mg Week 7 4 mg When discontinuing ropinirole in patients with RLS, gradual reduction of the daily dose is recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8, 5.9)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION •Ropinirole extended-release tablets are taken once daily, with or without food; tablets must be swallowed whole and must not be chewed, crushed, or divided (2.1) •The recommended starting dose is 2 mg taken once daily for 1 to 2 weeks; the dose should be increased by 2 mg/day at 1 week or longer intervals; the maximum dose is 24 mg/day (2.2, 14.2) •Renal Impairment: In patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis, the maximum recommended dose is 18 mg/day (2.2) •If ropinirole extended-release tablets must be discontinued, it should be tapered gradually over a 7-day period; retitration of ropinirole extended-release tablets may be warranted if therapy is interrupted (2.1, 2.2) •Patients may be switched directly from immediate-release ropinirole to ropinirole extended-release tablets; the initial switching dose of ropinirole extended-release tablets should most closely match the total daily dose of immediate-release ropinirole. (2.3) 2.1 General Dosing Recommendations · Ropinirole extended-release tablets are taken once daily, with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . · Tablets must be swallowed whole and must not be chewed, crushed, or divided. · If a significant interruption in therapy with ropinirole extended-release tablets has occurred, retitration of therapy may be warranted. 2.2 Dosing for Parkinson's Disease The starting dose is 2 mg taken once daily for 1 to 2 weeks, followed by increases of 2 mg/day at 1-week or longer intervals as appropriate, based on therapeutic response and tolerability. In clinical trials, dosage was initiated at 2 mg/day and gradually titrated based on individual patient therapeutic response and tolerability. Doses greater than 24 mg/day have not been studied in clinical trials. Patients should be assessed for therapeutic response and tolerability at a minimal interval of 1 week or longer after each dose increment. Monitor patients during dose titration because too rapid a rate of titration may lead to dose selection that may not provide additional benefit, but that may increase the risk of adverse reactions [see Clinical Studies (14.2)] . Due to the flexible dosing design used in clinical trials, specific dose-response information could not be determined. Ropinirole extended-release tablets should be discontinued gradually over a 7-day period. 2.3 Switching from Immediate-Release Ropinirole Tablets to Extended-Release Ropinirole Tablets Patients may be switched directly from immediate-release ropinirole to extended-release ropinirole tablets. The initial dose of ropinirole extended-release tablets should most closely match the total daily dose of the immediate-release formulation of ropinirole tablets, as shown in Table 1. Conversion from Immediate-Release Ropinirole Tablets to Extended-Release Ropinirole Tablets Immediate-Release Ropinirole Tablets Total Daily Dose (mg) Extended-Release Ropinirole Tablets Total Daily Dose (mg) 0.75 to 2.25 2 3 to 4.5 4 6 6 7.5 to 9 8 12 12 15 16 18 18 21 20 24 24 Following conversion to ropinirole extended-release tablets, the dose may be adjusted depending on therapeutic response and tolerability [see Dosage and Administration (2.2)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Ropinirole extended-release tablets are taken once daily, with or without food; tablets must be swallowed whole and not be chewed, crushed, or divided. ( 2.1 ) The recommended starting dose is 2 mg taken once daily for 1 to 2 weeks; the dose should be increased by 2 mg/day at 1 week or longer intervals. ( 2.2 , 14.2 ) Renal Impairment: In patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis, the maximum recommended dose is 18 mg/day. ( 2.2 ) If ropinirole extended-release tablets must be discontinued, it should be tapered gradually over a 7-day period; retitration of ropinirole extended-release tablets may be warranted if therapy is interrupted. ( 2.1 , 2.2 ) Patients may be switched directly from immediate-release ropinirole to ropinirole extended-release tablets; the initial switching dose of ropinirole extended-release tablets should approximately match the total daily dose of immediate-release ropinirole. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 General Dosing Recommendations Ropinirole extended-release tablets are taken once daily, with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Tablets must be swallowed whole and must not be chewed, crushed, or divided. If a significant interruption in therapy with ropinirole extended-release tablets has occurred, retitration of therapy may be warranted. Ropinirole extended-release tablets should be discontinued gradually over a 7-day period [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] . 2.3 Switching from Immediate-Release Ropinirole Tablets to Ropinirole Extended-Release Tablets Patients may be switched directly from immediate-release ropinirole tablets to ropinirole extended-release tablets. Conversion from Immediate-Release Ropinirole Tablets to Ropinirole Extended-Release Tablets Immediate-Release Ropinirole Tablets Ropinirole Extended-Release Tablets Total Daily Dose (mg) Total Daily Dose (mg) 0.75 to 2.25 2 3 to 4.5 4 6 6 7.5 to 9 8 12 12 15 16 18 18 21 20 24 24 Following conversion to ropinirole extended-release tablets, the dose may be adjusted depending on therapeutic response and tolerability [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Ropinirole extended-release tablets are taken once daily, with or without food; tablets must be swallowed whole and not be chewed, crushed, or divided ( 2.1 ) The recommended starting dose is 2 mg taken once daily for 1 to 2 weeks, the dose should be increased by 2 mg/day at 1 week or longer intervals. The maximum recommended dose of ropinirole extended release tablets is 24 mg/day ( 2.2 , 14.2 ) Renal Impairment: In patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis, the maximum recommended dose is 18 mg/day (2.2 ) If ropinirole extended-release tablets must be discontinued, it should be tapered gradually over a 7-day period, retitration of ropinirole extended-release tablets may be warranted if therapy is interrupted ( 2.1 , 2.2 ) Patients may be switched directly from immediate-release ropinirole to ropinirole extended-release tablets, the initial switching dose of ropinirole extended-release tablets should approximately match the total daily dose of immediate-release ropinirole ( 2.3 ) 2.1 General Dosing Recommendations Ropinirole extended-release tablets are taken once daily, with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] .
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ropinirole tablets are contraindicated in patients known to have a hypersensitivity/allergic reaction (including urticaria, angioedema, rash, pruritus) to ropinirole or to any of the excipients. History of hypersensitivity/allergic reaction (including urticaria, angioedema, rash, pruritus) to ropinirole or to any of the excipients (4) History of hypersensitivity/allergic reaction (including urticaria, angioedema, rash, pruritus) to ropinirole or to any of the excipients. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ropinirole extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients known to have a hypersensitivity/allergic reaction (including urticaria, angioedema, rash, pruritus) to ropinirole or any of the excipients. History of hypersensitivity/allergic reaction (including urticaria, angioedema, rash, pruritus) to ropinirole or to any of the excipients ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ropinirole is contraindicated in patients known to have a hypersensitivity/allergic reaction (including urticaria, angioedema, rash, pruritus) to ropinirole or to any of the excipients. History of hypersensitivity/allergic reaction (including urticaria, angioedema, rash, pruritus) to ropinirole or to any of the excipients 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ropinirole extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients known to have a hypersensitivity/allergic reaction including urticaria, angioedema, rash, pruritus) to ropinirole or any of the excipients. History of hypersensitivity/ allergic reaction (including urticaria, angioedema, rash, pruritus) to ropinirole or to any of the excipients (4) History of hypersensitivity/allergic reaction (including urticaria, angioedema, rash, pruritus) to ropinirole or to any of the excipients ( 4)
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS · Inhibitors or inducers of CYP1A2: May alter the clearance of ropinirole tablets; dose adjustment of ropinirole tablets may be required (7.1, 12.3) · Hormone replacement therapy(HRT): Starting or stopping HRT may require dose adjustment of ropinirole tablets (7.2, 12.3) · Dopamine antagonists (e.g., neuroleptics, metoclopramide): May reduce efficacy of ropinirole tablets (7.3) 7.1 Cytochrome P450 1A2 Inhibitors and Inducers In vitro metabolism studies showed that CYP1A2 is the major enzyme responsible for the metabolism of ropinirole. There is thus the potential for inducers or inhibitors of this enzyme to alter the clearance of ropinirole. Therefore, if therapy with a drug known to be a potent inducer or inhibitor of CYP1A2 is stopped or started during treatment with ropinirole tablets, adjustment of the dose of ropinirole tablets may be required. Coadministration of ciprofloxacin, an inhibitor of CYP1A2, increases the AUC and C max of ropinirole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Cigarette smoking is expected to increase the clearance of ropinirole since CYP1A2 is known to be induced by smoking [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.2 Estrogens Population pharmacokinetic analysis revealed that higher doses of estrogens (usually associated with hormone replacement therapy [HRT]) reduced the clearance of ropinirole. Starting or stopping HRT may require adjustment of dosage of ropinirole tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7.3 Dopamine Antagonists Because ropinirole is a dopamine agonist, it is possible that dopamine antagonists such as neuroleptics (e.g., phenothiazines, butyrophenones, thioxanthenes) or metoclopramide may reduce the efficacy of ropinirole tablets. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Inhibitors or inducers of CYP1A2: May alter the clearance of ropinirole; dose adjustment of ropinirole may be required. ( 7.1 , 12.3) Hormone replacement therapy (HRT): Starting or stopping HRT may require dose adjustment of ropinirole. ( 7.2 , 12.3 ) Dopamine antagonists (e.g., neuroleptics, metoclopramide): May reduce efficacy of ropinirole. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Cytochrome P450 1A2 Inhibitors and Inducers In vitro metabolism studies showed that cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2) is the major enzyme responsible for the metabolism of ropinirole. Therefore, if therapy with a drug known to be a potent inducer or inhibitor of CYP1A2 is stopped or started during treatment with ropinirole, adjustment of the dose of ropinirole may be required. Coadministration of ciprofloxacin, an inhibitor of CYP1A2, increases the AUC and C max of ropinirole [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Cigarette smoking is expected to increase the clearance of ropinirole since CYP1A2 is known to be induced by smoking hormone replacement therapy [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 7.2 Estrogens Population pharmacokinetic analysis revealed that higher doses of estrogens (usually associated with hormone replacement therapy) reduced the clearance of ropinirole. Starting or stopping may require adjustment of dosage of ropinirole [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.3 Dopamine Antagonists Because ropinirole is a dopamine agonist, it is possible that dopamine antagonists such as neuroleptics (e.g., phenothiazines, butyrophenones, thioxanthenes) or metoclopramide may reduce the efficacy of ropinirole. Drug Interaction Studies Digoxin: Coadministration of ropinirole (2 mg 3 times daily) with digoxin (0.125 to 0.25 mg once daily) did not alter the steady-state pharmacokinetics of digoxin in 10 patients. Theophylline: Administration of theophylline (300 mg twice daily), a substrate of CYP1A2, did not alter the steady-state pharmacokinetics of ropinirole (2 mg 3 times daily) in 12 patients with Parkinson’s disease. Ropinirole (2 mg 3 times daily) did not alter the pharmacokinetics of theophylline (5 mg/kg intravenously) in 12 patients with Parkinson’s disease. Ciprofloxacin: Coadministration of ciprofloxacin (500 mg twice daily), an inhibitor of CYP1A2, with ropinirole (2 mg 3 times daily) increased ropinirole AUC by 84% on average and C max by 60% (n = 12 patients). Estrogens: Population pharmacokinetic analysis revealed that estrogens (mainly ethinylestradiol: intake 0.6 to 3 mg over 4-month to 23-year period) reduced the oral clearance of ropinirole by 36% in 16 patients. L-dopa : Coadministration of carbidopa + L-dopa (10/100 mg twice daily) with ropinirole (2 mg 3 times daily) had no effect on the steady-state pharmacokinetics of ropinirole (n = 28 patients). Oral administration of ropinirole 2 mg 3 times daily increased mean steady-state C max of L-dopa by 20%, but its AUC was unaffected (n = 23 patients). Commonly Administered Drugs: Population analysis showed that commonly administered drugs (e.g., selegiline, amantadine, tricyclic antidepressants, benzodiazepines, ibuprofen, thiazides, antihistamines, anticholinergics) did not affect the clearance of ropinirole. An in vitro study indicates that ropinirole is not a substrate for P-glycoprotein. Ropinirole and its circulating metabolites do not inhibit or induce P450 enzymes; therefore, ropinirole is unlikely to affect the pharmacokinetics of other drugs by a P450 mechanism. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Inhibitors or inducers of CYP1A2: May alter the clearance of ropinirole; dose adjustment of ropinirole extended-release tablets may be required. ( 7.1 , 12.3 ) • Hormone replacement therapy (HRT): Starting or stopping HRT treatment may require dose adjustment of ropinirole extended-release tablets. ( 7.2 , 12.3 ) • Dopamine antagonists (e.g., neuroleptics metoclopramide): May reduce efficacy of ropinirole extended-release tablets. Therefore, if therapy with a drug known to be a potent inducer or inhibitor of CYP1A2 is stopped or started during treatment with ropinirole extended-release tablets, adjustment of the dose of ropinirole extended-release tablets may be required. Coadministration of ciprofloxacin, an inhibitor of CYP1A2, with immediate-release ropinirole increases the AUC and C max of ropinirole [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Cigarette smoking is expected to increase the clearance of ropinirole since CYP1A2 is known to be induced by smoking [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Starting or stopping hormone replacement therapy may require adjustment of dosage of ropinirole extended-release tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.3 Dopamine Antagonists Because ropinirole is a dopamine agonist, it is possible that dopamine antagonists such as neuroleptics (e.g., phenothiazines, butyrophenones, thioxanthenes) or metoclopramide may reduce the efficacy of ropinirole extended-release tablets. (7.1, 12.3) Hormone replacement therapy (HRT): Starting or stopping HRT may require dose adjustment of ropinirole. (7.2, 12.3) Dopamine antagonists (e.g., neuroleptics, metoclopramide): May reduce efficacy of ropinirole. (7.3) 7.1 Cytochrome P450 1A2 Inhibitors and Inducers In vitro metabolism studies showed that cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2) is the major enzyme responsible for the metabolism of ropinirole. Coadministration of ciprofloxacin, an inhibitor of CYP1A2, increases the AUC and C max of ropinirole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Cigarette smoking is expected to increase the clearance of ropinirole since CYP1A2 is known to be induced by smoking [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Starting or stopping hormone replacement therapy may require adjustment of dosage of ropinirole [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS •Inhibitors or inducers of CYP1A2: May alter the clearance of ropinirole;dose adjustment may be required (7.1, 12.3) •Hormone replacement therapy (HRT): Starting or stopping HRT treatment may require dose adjustment of ropinirole extended-release tablets (7.2, 12.3) •Dopamine antagonists (e.g., neuroleptics metoclopramide): May reduce efficacy of ropinirole extended-release tablets (7.3) 7.1 CYP1A2 Inhibitors and Inducers In vitro metabolism studies showed that CYP1A2 is the major enzyme responsible for the metabolism of ropinirole. Coadministration of ciprofloxacin, an inhibitor of CYP1A2, with immediate-release ropinirole increases the AUC and C max of ropinirole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Starting or stopping HRT may require adjustment of dosage of ropinirole extended-release tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Inhibitors or inducers of CYP1A2: May alter the clearance of ropinirole; dose adjustment of ropinirole extended-release tablets may be required. ( 7.1 , 12.3 ) Hormone replacement therapy (HRT): Starting or stopping HRT treatment may require dose adjustment of ropinirole extended-release tablets. ( 7.2 , 12.3 ) Dopamine antagonists (e.g., neuroleptics, metoclopramide): May reduce efficacy of ropinirole extended-release tablets. Cigarette smoking is expected to increase the clearance of ropinirole since CYP1A2 is known to be induced by smoking [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Starting or stopping hormone replacement therapy may require adjustment of dosage of ropinirole extended-release tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Inhibitors or inducers of CYP1A2: May alter the clearance of ropinirole; dose adjustment of ropinirole extended-release tablets may be required ( 7.1 , 12.3 ) Hormone replacement therapy (HRT): Starting or stopping HRT treatment may require dose adjustment of ropinirole extended-release tablets ( 7.2 , 12.3 ) Dopamine antagonists (e.g., neuroleptics, metoclopramide): May reduce efficacy of ropinirole extended-release tablets ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Cytochrome P450 1A2 Inhibitors and Inducers In vitro metabolism studies showed that cytrochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2) is the major enzyme responsible for the metabolism of ropinirole.

=== SEVELAMER CARBONATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sevelamer carbonate tablets are indicated for the control of serum phosphorus in adults and children 6 years of age and older with chronic kidney disease (CKD) on dialysis. Sevelamer carbonate tablet is a phosphate binder indicated for the control of serum phosphorus in adults and children 6 years of age and older with chronic kidney disease on dialysis. (1 ) Sevelamer carbonate tablets are phosphate binder indicated for the control of serum phosphorus in adults and children 6 years of age and older with chronic kidney disease on dialysis. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sevelamer carbonate tablets are indicated for the control of serum phosphorus in adults with chronic kidney disease (CKD) on dialysis. Pediatric use information is approved for Genzyme Corporation’s Renvela (sevelamer carbonate) tablets and Renvela (sevelamer carbonate) for oral suspension. However, due to Genzyme Corporation’s marketing exclusivity rights, these drug products are not labeled with that pediatric information. Sevelamer carbonate tablets are a phosphate binder indicated for the control of serum phosphorus in adults with chronic kidney disease on dialysis. (1) Sevelamer carbonate tablets are a phosphate binder indicated for the control of serum phosphorus in adults and children 6 years of age and older with chronic kidney disease on dialysis. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sevelamer carbonate is indicated for the control of serum phosphorus in adults and children 6 years of age and older with chronic kidney disease (CKD) on dialysis. Sevelamer carbonate is a phosphate binder indicated for the control of serum phosphorus in adults and children 6 years of age and older with chronic kidney disease on dialysis. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Sevelamer carbonate tablets are indicated for the control of serum phosphorus in adults and children 6 years of age and older with chronic kidney disease (CKD) on dialysis.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Starting dose of sevelamer carbonate tablet is 0.8 or 1.6 grams administered orally three times per day with meals based on serum phosphorus levels for adult patients and based on body surface area (BSA) category for pediatric patients ( 2.1 ) Titrate by 0.8 grams per meal in two week intervals for adult patients as needed to obtain serum phosphorus target. ( 2.1 ) Titrate based on BSA category for pediatric patients in two week intervals for 6 weeks and then every 4 weeks as needed to obtain serum phosphorus target. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 General Dosing Information Starting Dose for Adult Patients Not Taking a Phosphate Binder . The recommended starting dose of sevelamer carbonate tablets are 0.8 to 1.6 grams taken orally with meals based on serum phosphorus level. Table 1 provides recommended starting doses of sevelamer carbonate tablets for adult patients not taking a phosphate binder. Table 1. Starting Dose for Adult Dialysis Patients Not Taking a Phosphate Binder Serum Phosphorus Sevelamer Carbonate > 5.5 and < 7.5 mg/dL 0.8 grams three times daily with meals ≥ 7.5 mg/dL 1.6 grams three times daily with meals Dose Titration for Adult Patients Taking Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets . Titrate the sevelamer carbonate tablets dose by 0.8 grams three times per day with meals at two-week intervals as necessary to achieve target serum phosphorus levels. Based on clinical studies, the average prescribed adult daily dose of sevelamer carbonate is approximately 7.2 grams per day. The highest daily adult dose of sevelamer carbonate studied was 14 grams in CKD patients on dialysis. Starting Dose for Pediatric Patients Not Taking a Phosphate Binder. The recommended starting dose for pediatric patients 6 years of age and older is 0.8 to 1.6 grams taken three times per day with meals based on the patient’s body surface area (BSA) category; see Table 2. Table 2: Recommended Starting Dosage and Titration Increment Based on Pediatric Patient’s Body Surface Area (m 2 ) BSA (m 2 ) Starting Dose Per Meal/Snack Titration Increases/ Decreases Per Dose ≥0.75 to <1.2 0.8 grams Titrate by 0.4 grams ≥1.2 1.6 grams Titrate by 0.8 grams Dose Titration for Pediatric Patients Taking Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets . Titrate the sevelamer caronate dose as needed to achieve target levels at two-week intervals based on BSA category, as shown in Table 2. Switching from Sevelamer Hydrochloride Tablets . For adult patients switching from sevelamer hydrochloride tablets to sevelamer carbonate tablets or powder, use the same dose in grams. Switching between Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets and Powder . Use the same dose in grams. Switching from Calcium Acetate . Table 3 gives recommended starting doses of sevelamer carbonate tablets based on a patient’s current calcium acetate dose. Table 3. Starting Dose for Dialysis Patients Switching from Calcium Acetate to Sevelamer carbonate Tablets Calcium Acetate 667 mg (Tablets per meal) Sevelamer Carbonate 1 tablet 0.8 grams 2 tablets 1.6 grams 3 tablets 2.4 grams 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Starting dose of sevelamer carbonate is 0.8 or 1.6 grams administered orally three times per day with meals based on serum phosphorus levels for adult patients and based on body surface area (BSA) category for pediatric patients. ( 2.1 ) Titrate by 0.8 g per meal in two week intervals for adult patients as needed to obtain serum phosphorus target. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 General Dosing Information Starting Dose for Adult Patients Not Taking a Phosphate Binder. The recommended starting dose of sevelamer carbonate tablets is 0.8 to 1.6 g taken orally with meals based on serum phosphorus level. Starting Dose for Adult Dialysis Patients Not Taking a Phosphate Binder Serum Phosphorus Sevelamer Carbonate > 5.5 and < 7.5 mg/dL 0.8 g three times daily with meals 7.5 mg/dL 1.6 g three times daily with meals Dose Titration for Adult Patients Taking Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets. Titrate the sevelamer carbonate dose by 0.8 g three times per day with meals at two-week intervals as necessary to achieve target serum phosphorus levels. Based on clinical studies, the average prescribed adult daily dose of sevelamer carbonate is approximately 7.2 g per day. The recommended starting dose for pediatric patients 6 years of age and older is 0.8 g to 1.6 g taken three times per day with meals based on the patients body surface area (BSA) category; see Table 2 . Table 2. Recommended Starting Dosage and Titration Increment Based on Pediatric Patients Body Surface Area (m 2 ) BSA (m 2 ) Starting Dose Per Meal/Snack Titration Increases/Decreases Per Dose ≥0.75 to <1.2 0.8 g Titrate by 0.4 g ≥1.2 1.6 g Titrate by 0.8 g Dose Titration for Pediatric Patients Taking Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets. Titrate the sevelamer carbonate dose as needed to achieve target levels at two-week intervals based on BSA category, as shown in Table 2 . Switching from Sevelamer Hydrochloride Tablets. Switching between Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets and Powder. Switching from Calcium Acetate. Table 3 gives recommended starting doses of sevelamer carbonate tablets based on a patient's current calcium acetate dose. Starting Dose for Dialysis Patients Switching From Calcium Acetate to Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets Calcium Acetate 667 mg (Tablets per meal) Sevelamer Carbonate 1 tablet 0.8 g 2 tablets 1.6 g 3 tablets 2.4 g 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Starting dose of sevelamer carbonate tablets is 0.8 or 1.6 grams administered orally three times per day with meals based on serum phosphorus levels for adult patients. Starting Dose for Adult Dialysis Patients Not Taking a Phosphate Binder Serum Phosphorus Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets > 5.5 and < 7.5 mg/dL 0.8 g three times daily with meals ≥ 7.5 mg/dL 1.6 g three times daily with meals Dose Titration for Adult Patients Taking Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets . Titrate the sevelamer carbonate tablets dose by 0.8 g three times per day with meals at two-week intervals as necessary to achieve target serum phosphorus levels. Switching from Sevelamer Hydrochloride (Renagel ® ) Tablets. For adult patients switching from sevelamer hydrochloride (Renagel ® ) tablets to sevelamer carbonate tablets or powder, use the same dose in grams. Starting Dose for Dialysis Patients Switching From Calcium Acetate to Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets Calcium Acetate 667 mg (Tablets per meal) Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets 1 tablet 0.8 g 2 tablets 1.6 g 3 tablets 2.4 g Pediatric use information is approved for Genzyme Corporation’s Renvela (sevelamer carbonate) tablets and Renvela (sevelamer carbonate) for oral suspension. However, due to Genzyme Corporation’s marketing exclusivity rights, these drug products are not labeled with that pediatric information. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Starting dose of sevelamer carbonate tablets is 0.8 or 1.6 grams administered orally three times per day with meals based on serum phosphorus levels for adult patients and based on body surface area (BSA) category for pediatric patients. ( 2.1 ) Titrate by 0.8 g per meal in two-week intervals for adult patients as needed to obtain serum phosphorus target. ( 2.1 ) Titrate based on BSA category for pediatric patients in two-week intervals for 6 weeks and then every 4 weeks as needed to obtain serum phosphorus target. Table 1: Starting Dose for Adult Dialysis Patients Not Taking a Phosphate Binder Serum Phosphorus Sevelamer Carbonate > 5.5 and < 7.5 mg/dL 0.8 g three times daily with meals ≥ 7.5 mg/dL 1.6 g three times daily with meals Dose Titration tor Adult Patients Taking Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets. Starting Dose tor Pediatric Patients Not Taking a Phosphate Binder. The recommended starting dose for pediatric patients 6 years of age and older is 0.8 g to 1.6 g taken three times per day with meals based on the patient's body surface area (BSA) category; see Table 2 . Table 2: Recommended Starting Dosage and Titration Increment Based on Pediatric Patient's Body Surface Area (m 2 ) BSA(m 2 ) Starting Dose Per Meal/Snack Titration Increases/Decreases Per Dose ≥0.75 to <1.2 0.8 g Titrate by 0.4 g ≥1.2 1.6 g Titrate by 0.8 g Dose Titration for Pediatric Patients Taking Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets. Titrate the sevelamer carbonate tablets dose as needed to achieve target levels at two-week intervals based on BSA category, as shown in Table 2. Table 3: Starting Dose for Dialysis Patients Switching from Calcium Acetate to Sevelamer Carbonate Calcium Acetate 667 mg (Tablets per meal) Sevelamer Carbonate 1 tablet 0.8 g 2 tablets 1.6 g 3 tablets 2.4 g Table 1: Starting Dose for Adult Dialysis Patients Not Taking a Phosphate Binder Serum Phosphorus Sevelamer carbonate >5.5 and <7.5 mg/dL 0.8 g three times daily with meals ≥7.5 mg/dL 1.6 g three times daily with meals Dose Titration for Adult Patients Taking sevelamer carbonate. The recommended starting dose for pediatric patients 6 years of age and older is 0.8 g to 1.6 g taken three times per day with meals based on the patient's body surface area (BSA) category; see Table 2. Table 2: Recommended Starting Dosage and Titration Increment Based on Pediatric Patient's Body Surface Area (m 2 ) BSA (m 2 ) Starting Dose Per Meal/Snack Titration Increases/ Decreases Per Dose ≥0.75 to <1.2 0.8 g Titrate by 0.4 g ≥1.2 1.6 g Titrate by 0.8 g Dose Titration for Pediatric Patients Taking sevelamer carbonate. Titrate the sevelamer carbonate dose as needed to achieve target levels at two-week intervals based on BSA category, as shown in Table 2. Table 3: Starting Dose for Dialysis Patients Switching from Calcium Acetate to Sevelamer carbonate tablets Calcium Acetate 667 mg (Tablets per meal) Sevelamer carbonate 1 tablet 0.8 g 2 tablets 1.6 g 3 tablets 2.4 g The recommended starting dose of sevelamer carbonate is 0.8 to 1.6 g taken orally with meals based on serum phosphorus level. Table 1 provides recommended starting doses of sevelamer carbonate for adult patients not taking a phosphate binder. Table 1: Starting Dose for Adult Dialysis Patients Not Taking a Phosphate Binder Serum Phosphorus Sevelamer Carbonate 800 mg Tablet > 5.5 and < 7.5 mg/dL 0.8 g three times daily with meals 7.5 mg/dL 1.6 g three times daily with meals Dose Titration for Adult Patients Taking Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets. The recommended starting dose for pediatric patients 6 years of age and older is 0.8 g to 1.6 g taken three times per day with meals based on the patients body surface area (BSA) category; see Table 2. Table 2: Recommended Starting Dosage and Titration Increment Based on Pediatric Patients Body Surface Area (m 2 ) BSA (m2) Starting Dose Per Meal/Snack Titration Increases/Decreases Per Dose ≥0.75 to <1.2 0.8 g Titrate by 0.4 g ≥1.2 1.6 g Titrate by 0.8 g Dose Titration for Pediatric Patients Taking sevelamer carbonate. Table 3 gives recommended starting doses of sevelamer carbonate based on a patients current calcium acetate dose. Table 3: Starting Dose for Dialysis Patients Switching from Calcium Acetate to Sevelamer Carbonate Calcium Acetate 667 mg (Tablets per meal) Sevelamer Carbonate Tablet 1 tablet 0.8 g 2 tablets 1.6 g 3 tablets 2.4 g 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION • Starting dose of sevelamer carbonate tablets is 0.8 or 1.6 grams administered orally three times per day with meals based on serum phosphorus levels for adult patients and based on body surface area (BSA) category for pediatric patients. ( 2.1 ) • Titrate by 0.8 g per meal in two-week intervals for adult patients as needed to obtain serum phosphorus target. ( 2.1 ) • Titrate based on BSA category for pediatric patients in two-week intervals for 6 weeks and then every 4 weeks as needed to obtain serum phosphorus target. Table 1: Starting Dose for Adult Dialysis Patients Not Taking a Phosphate Binder Serum Phosphorus Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets >5.5 and <7.5 mg/dL 0.8 g three times daily with meals ≥7.5 mg/dL 1.6 g three times daily with meals Dose Titration for Adult Patients Taking Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets. The recommended starting dose for pediatric patients 6 years of age and older is 0.8 g to 1.6 g taken three times per day with meals based on the patient’s body surface area (BSA) category; see Table 2. Table 2: Recommended Starting Dosage and Titration Increment Based on Pediatric Patient’s Body Surface Area (m 2 ) BSA (m 2 ) Starting Dose Per Meal/Snack Titration Increases/Decreases Per Dose ≥0.75 to <1.2 0.8 g Titrate by 0.4 g ≥1.2 1.6 g Titrate by 0.8 g Dose Titration for Pediatric Patients Taking Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets. Table 3: Starting Dose for Dialysis Patients Switching from Calcium Acetate to Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets Calcium Acetate 667 mg (Tablets per meal) Sevelamer Carbonate Tablets 1 tablet 0.8 g 2 tablets 1.6 g 3 tablets 2.4 g The recommended starting dose for pediatric patients 6 years of age and older is 0.8 to 1.6 g taken three times per day with meals based on the patient's body surface area (BSA) category; see Table 2 . Table 2: Recommended Starting Dosage and Titration Increment Based on Pediatric Patient's Body Surface Area (m 2 ) BSA (m 2 ) Starting Dose Per Meal/Snack Titration Increases/Decreases Per Dose ≥0.75 to <1.2 0.8 g Titrate by 0.4 g ≥1.2 1.6 g Titrate by 0.8 g Dose Titration for Pediatric Patients Taking Sevelamer Carbonate. Table 3 gives recommended starting doses of sevelamer carbonate based on a patient's current calcium acetate dose. Table 3: Starting Dose for Dialysis Patients Switching from Calcium Acetate to Sevelamer Carbonate Calcium Acetate 667 mg (Tablets per meal) Sevelamer Carbonate 1 tablet 0.8 g 2 tablets 1.6 g 3 tablets 2.4 g 2.2 Sevelamer Carbonate Powder Preparation Instructions Sevelamer carbonate powder is available in 0.8 or 2.4 g packets. For dose increments of 0.4 g, use one half of a 0.8 g packet. Place the sevelamer carbonate powder in a cup and suspend in the amount of water described in Table 4. Table 4: Sevelamer Carbonate Powder Preparation Instructions Amount of Sevelamer Carbonate Powder Minimum Amount of Water for Dose Preparation (either ounces, mL, or tablespoon) Ounces mL Tablespoons 0.4 g 1 30 2 0.8 g 1 30 2 2.4 g 2 60 4 Instruct patients to stir the mixture vigorously (it does not dissolve), resuspend, if necessary, right before administration, and drink the entire preparation within 30 minutes. As an alternative to water, the entire contents of the packet may be pre-mixed with a small amount of food or beverage and consumed immediately (within 30 minutes) as part of the meal. Do not heat sevelamer carbonate powder (e.g., microwave) or add to heated foods or liquids.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sevelamer carbonate tablets are contraindicated in patients with bowel obstruction. Sevelamer carbonate tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to sevelamer carbonate, sevelamer hydrochloride, or to any of the excipients. Bowel obstruction. ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to sevelamer carbonate,sevelamer hydrochloride, or to any of the excipients. ( 4 ) Sevelamer carbonate tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to sevelamer carbonate, sevelamer hydrochloride or to any of the excipients. ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to sevelamer carbonate, sevelamer hydrochloride, or to any of the excipients. (4) Known hypersensitivity to sevelamer carbonate, sevelamer hydrochloride, or to any of the excipients. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sevelamer carbonate is contraindicated in patients with bowel obstruction. ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to sevelamer carbonate, sevelamer hydrochloride, or to any of the excipients.( 4 ) Sevelamer carbonate is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to sevelamer carbonate, sevelamer hydrochloride, or to any of the excipients. • Bowel obstruction. ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to sevelamer carbonate, sevelamer hydrochloride, or to any of the excipients.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS There are no empirical data on avoiding drug interactions between sevelamer carbonate and most concomitant oral drugs. For oral medication where a reduction in the bioavailability of that medication would have a clinically significant effect on its safety or efficacy (e.g., cyclosporine, tacrolimus, levothyroxine), consider separation of the timing of the administration of the two drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. The duration of separation depends upon the absorption characteristics of the medication concomitantly administered, such as the time to reach peak systemic levels and whether the drug is an immediate release or an extended release product. Where possible consider monitoring clinical responses and/or blood levels of concomitant drugs that have a narrow therapeutic range. Table 5. Sevelamer Drug Interactions Oral drugs for which sevelamer did not alter the pharmacokinetics when administered concomitantly Digoxin Enalapril Iron Metoprolol Warfarin Oral drugs that have demonstrated interaction with sevelamer and are to be dosed separately from sevelamer carbonate Ciprofloxacin Mycophenolate mofetil Dosing Recommendations Take at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after sevelamer Take at least 2 hours before sevelamer • For oral medication where a reduction in the bioavailability of that medication would have a clinically significant effect on its safety or efficacy consider separation of the timing of administration and/or monitor clinical responses or blood levels of the concomitant medication. ( 7 ) • Sevelamer did not alter the pharmacokinetics of digoxin, enalapril, iron, metoprolol and warfarin. ( 7 ) • Sevelamer has demonstrated interaction with ciprofloxacin, mycophenolate mofetil, and therefore these drugs should be dosed separately from sevelamer carbonate. ( 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS There are no empirical data on avoiding drug interactions between sevelamer carbonate tablets and most concomitant oral drugs. For oral medication where a reduction in the bioavailability of that medication would have a clinically significant effect on its safety or efficacy (e.g., cyclosporine, tacrolimus, levothyroxine), consider separation of the timing of the administration of the two drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The duration of separation depends upon the absorption characteristics of the medication concomitantly administered, such as the time to reach peak systemic levels and whether the drug is an immediate-release or an extended-release product. Sevelamer Drug Interactions Oral drugs for which sevelamer did not alter the pharmacokinetics when administered concomitantly Digoxin Enalapril Iron Metoprolol Warfarin Oral drugs that have demonstrated interaction with sevelamer and are to be dosed separately from sevelamer carbonate tablets Ciprofloxacin Mycophenolate mofetil Dosing Recommendations Take at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after sevelamer Take at least 2 hours before sevelamer For oral medication where a reduction in the bioavailability of that medication would have a clinically significant effect on its safety or efficacy, consider separation of the timing of administration and/or monitor clinical responses or blood levels of the concomitant medication. ( 7 ) Sevelamer did not alter the pharmacokinetics of digoxin, enalapril, iron, metoprolol and warfarin. ( 7 ) Sevelamer has demonstrated interaction with ciprofloxacin, mycophenolate mofetil, and therefore, these drugs should be dosed separately from sevelamer carbonate tablets. Drug Interactions In vivo Sevelamer carbonate has been studied in human drug-drug interaction studies (9.6 grams once daily with a meal) with warfarin and digoxin. Sevelamer hydrochloride, which contains the same active moiety as sevelamer carbonate, has been studied in human drug-drug interaction studies (2.4-2.8 grams single dose or three times daily with meals or two times daily without meals) with ciprofloxacin, digoxin, enalapril, iron, metoprolol, mycophenolate mofetil, and warfarin. Coadministered single dose of 2.8 grams of sevelamer hydrochloride in fasted state decreased the bioavailability of ciprofloxacin by approximately 50% in healthy subjects. Concomitant administration of sevelamer and mycophenolate mofetil in adult and pediatric patients decreased the mean MPA C max and AUC 0–12h by 36% and 26%, respectively. Sevelamer carbonate or sevelamer hydrochloride did not alter the pharmacokinetics of enalapril, digoxin, iron, metoprolol, and warfarin when coadministered. During postmarketing experience, cases of increased thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) levels have been reported in patients coadministered sevelamer hydrochloride and levothyroxine. Reduction in concentrations of cyclosporine and tacrolimus leading to dose increases has also been reported in transplant patients when coadministered with sevelamer hydrochloride without any clinical consequences (for example, graft rejection). The possibility of an interaction cannot be excluded with these drugs. Sevelamer Drug Interactions Oral drugs for which sevelamer did not alter the pharmacokinetics when administered concomitantly Digoxin Enalapril Iron Metoprolol Warfarin Oral drugs that have demonstrated interaction with sevelamer and are to be dosed separately from sevelamer carbonate Ciprofloxacin Mycophenolate mofetil Dosing Recommendations Take at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after sevelamer Take at least 2 hours before sevelamer For oral medication where a reduction in the bioavailability of that medication would have a clinically significant effect on its safety or efficacy consider separation of the timing of administration and/or monitor clinical responses or blood levels of the concomitant medication. (7) Sevelamer has demonstrated interaction with ciprofloxacin, mycophenolate mofetil, and therefore these drugs should be dosed separately from sevelamer carbonate. (7) Pediatric use information is approved for Genzyme Corporation’s Renvela (sevelamer carbonate) tablets and Renvela (sevelamer carbonate) for oral suspension. However, due to Genzyme Corporation’s marketing exclusivity rights, these drug products are not labeled with that pediatric information. For oral medication where a reduction in the bioavailability of that medication would have a clinically significant effect on its safety or efficacy (e.g., cyclosporine, tacrolimus, levothyroxine), consider separation of the timing of the administration of the two drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 5: Sevelamer Drug Interactions Oral drugs for which sevelamer did not alter the pharmacokinetics when administered concomitantly Digoxin Enalapril Iron Metoprolol Warfarin Oral drugs that have demonstrated interaction with sevelamer and are to be dosed separately from sevelamer carbonate Dosing Recommendations Ciprofloxacin Take at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after sevelamer Mycophenolate mofetil Take at least 2 hours before sevelamer For oral medication where a reduction in the bioavailability of that medication would have a clinically significant effect on its safety or efficacy, consider separation of the timing of administration and/or monitor clinical responses or blood levels of the concomitant medication. ( 7 ) Sevelamer has demonstrated interaction with ciprofloxacin, mycophenolate mofetil, and therefore, these drugs should be dosed separately from sevelamer carbonate. For oral medication where a reduction in the bioavailability of that medication would have a clinically significant effect on its safety or efficacy (e.g., cyclosporine, tacrolimus, levothyroxine), consider separation of the timing of the administration of the two drugs [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Table 5: Sevelamer Drug Interactions Oral drugs for which sevelamer did not alter the pharmacokinetics when administered concomitantly Digoxin Enalapril Iron Metoprolol Warfarin Oral drugs that have demonstrated interaction with sevelamer and are to be dosed separately from sevelamer carbonate tablet s Ciprofloxacin Mycophenolate mofetil Dosing Recommendations Take at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after sevelamer Take at least 2 hours before sevelamer For oral medication where a reduction in the bioavailability of that medication would have a clinically significant effect on its safety or efficacy, consider separation of the timing of administration and/or monitor clinical responses or blood levels of the concomitant medication. Table 5: Sevelamer Drug Interactions Oral drugs for which sevelamer did not alter the pharmacokinetics when administered concomitantly Digoxin Enalapril Iron Metoprolol Warfarin Oral drugs that have demonstrated interaction with sevelamer and are to be dosed separately from sevelamer carbonate Dosing Recommendations Ciprofloxacin Mycophenolate mofetil Take at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after sevelamer Take at least 2 hours before sevelamer For oral medication where a reduction in the bioavailability of that medication would have a clinically significant effect on its safety or efficacy, consider separation of the timing of administration and/or monitor clinical responses or blood levels of the concomitant medication. Table 5: Sevelamer Drug Interactions Oral drugs for which sevelamer did not alter the pharmacokinetics when administered concomitantly Digoxin Enalapril Iron Metoprolol Warfarin Oral drugs that have demonstrated interaction with sevelamer and are to be dosed separately from sevelamer carbonate Ciprofloxacin Mycophenolate mofetil Dosing Recommendations Take at least 2 hours before or 6 hours after sevelamer Take at least 2 hours before sevelamer • For oral medication where a reduction in the bioavailability of that medication would have a clinically significant effect on its safety or efficacy, consider separation of the timing of administration and/or monitor clinical responses or blood levels of the concomitant medication. ( 7 ) • Sevelamer has demonstrated interaction with ciprofloxacin, mycophenolate mofetil, and therefore, these drugs should be dosed separately from sevelamer carbonate.

=== ESOMEPRAZOLE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Acid reducer
Indications: Uses treats frequent heartburn (occurs 2 or more days a week) not intended for immediate relief of heartburn; this drug may take 1 to 4 days for full effect 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are indicated for the: Short-term treatment in the healing of erosive esophagitis (EE) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years to 17 years of age. ( 1.1 ) Maintenance of healing of EE in adults. ( 1.2 ) Short-term treatment of heartburn and other symptoms associated GERD in adults and pediatric patients 12 years to 17 years of age. ( 1.3 ) Risk reduction of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID)-associated gastric ulcer in adults at risk for developing gastric ulcers due to age (60 years and older) and/or documented history of gastric ulcers. ( 1.4 ) Helicobacter pylori eradication in adult patients to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence in combination with amoxicillin and clarithromycin. ( 1.5 ) Long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison syndrome in adults. ( 1.6 ) 1.1 Healing of Erosive Esophagitis (EE) Adults Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are indicated for the short-term treatment (4 to 8 weeks) in the healing and symptomatic resolution of diagnostically confirmed EE in adults. For those patients who have not healed after 4 to 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 4- to 8- week course of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules may be considered. Pediatric Patients 12 Years to 17 Years of Age Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are indicated for the short-term treatment (4 to 8 weeks) for the healing of EE in pediatric patients 12 years to 17 years of age. 1.2 Maintenance of Healing of EE Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are indicated for the maintenance of healing of EE in adults. Controlled studies do not extend beyond 6 months. 1.3 Treatment of Symptomatic GERD Adults Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are indicated for short-term treatment (4 to 8 weeks) of heartburn and other symptoms associated with GERD in adults. Pediatric Patients 12 Years to 17 Years of Age Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are indicated for short-term treatment (4 weeks) of heartburn and other symptoms associated with GERD in pediatric patients 12 years to 17 years of age. 1.4 Risk Reduction of Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAID)-Associated Gastric Ulcer Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are indicated for the reduction in the occurrence of gastric ulcers associated with continuous NSAID therapy in adult patients at risk for developing gastric ulcers. Patients are considered to be at risk due to their age (60 years and older) and/or documented history of gastric ulcers. 1.5 Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Eradication of H. pylori has been shown to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence. Triple Therapy Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules in combination with amoxicillin and clarithromycin is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with H. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease (active or history of within the past 5 years) to eradicate H. pylori . In patients who fail therapy, susceptibility testing should be done. If resistance to clarithromycin is demonstrated or susceptibility testing is not possible, alternative antimicrobial therapy should be instituted [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and the prescribing information for clarithromycin ]. 1.6 Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are indicated for the long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome, in adults. Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are indicated for the: · Short-term treatment in the healing of erosive esophagitis (EE) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years to 17 years of age. ( 1.1 ) · Maintenance of healing of EE in adults. ( 1.2 ) · Short-term treatment of heartburn and other symptoms associated GERD in adults and pediatric patients 12 years to 17 years of age. ( 1.3 ) · Risk reduction of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID)-associated gastric ulcer in adults at risk for developing gastric ulcers due to age (60 years and older) and/or documented history of gastric ulcers. ( 1.4 ) · Helicobacter pylori eradication in adult patients to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence in combination with amoxicillin and clarithromycin. ( 1.5 ) · Long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison syndrome in adults. If resistance to clarithromycin is demonstrated or susceptibility testing is not possible, alternative antimicrobial therapy should be instituted [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.4 ) and the prescribing information for clarithromycin]. Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are indicated for the: • Short-term treatment in the healing of erosive esophagitis (EE) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years to 17 years of age. ( 1.1 ) • Maintenance of healing of EE in adults. ( 1.2 ) • Short-term treatment of heartburn and other symptoms associated GERD in adults and pediatric patients 12 years to 17 years of age. ( 1.3 ) • Risk reduction of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID)-associated gastric ulcer in adults at risk for developing gastric ulcers due to age (60 years and older) and/or documented history of gastric ulcers. ( 1.4 ) • Helicobacter pylori eradication in adult patients to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence in combination with amoxicillin and clarithromycin. ( 1.5 ) • Long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison syndrome in adults. For those patients who have not healed after 4 to 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 4- to 8-week course of Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules may be considered. If resistance to clarithromycin is demonstrated or susceptibility testing is not possible, alternative antimicrobial therapy should be instituted [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) and the prescribing information for clarithromycin]. Use treats frequent heartburn (occurs 2 or more days a week) not intended for immediate relief of heartburn; this drug may take 1 to 4 days for full effect Uses • treats frequent heartburn (occurs 2 or more days a week) • not intended for immediate relief of heartburn; this drug may take 1 to 4 days for full effect
Dosage: Directions adults 18 years of age and older this product is to be used once a day (every 24 hours), every day for 14 days may take 1 to 4 days for full effect 14-Day Course of Treatment • swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water before eating in the morning • take every day for 14 days • do not take more than 1 tablet a day • swallow whole. Do not crush or chew capsules. • do not use for more than 14 days unless directed by your doctor Repeated 14-Day Courses (if needed) • you may repeat a 14-day course every 4 months • do not take for more than 14 days or more often than every 4 months unless directed by a doctor children under 18 years of age: ask a doctor before use. Heartburn in children may sometimes be caused by a serious condition . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 1 A maximum dosage of 20 mg once daily is recommended for patients with severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh Class C). 2 Controlled studies do not extend beyond 6 months. 3 Refer to the amoxicillin and clarithromycin prescribing information for dosage adjustments in elderly and renally-impaired patients. 4 A starting dosage of 20 mg twice daily is recommended for patients with severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh Class C). Population Recommended Adult ( 2.1 ) and Pediatric Dosage ( 2.2 ) Healing of EE (12 years and older) Adults 20 mg or 40 mg 1 once daily for 4 to 8 weeks; some patients may require an additional 4 to 8 weeks 12 years to 17 years 20 mg or 40 mg 1 once daily for 4 to 8 weeks Maintenance of Healing of EE Adults 20 mg once daily. Controlled studies do not extend beyond 6 months Treatment of Symptomatic GERD Adults 20 mg once daily for 4 weeks some patients may require an additional 4 weeks 12 years to 17 years 20 mg once daily for 4 weeks Risk Reduction of NSAID-Associated Gastric Ulcer Adults 20 mg or 40 mg 1 once daily for up to 6 months 2 H. pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Adults Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 40 mg 1 once daily for 10 days Amoxicillin 1000 mg twice daily for 10 days 3 Clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily for 10 days 3 Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Adults Starting dosage is 40 mg twice daily 4 (varies with the individual patient) as long as clinically indicated. Preparation and Administration Information Swallow capsules whole; do not crush or chew. For patients who cannot swallow intact capsule, the capsule can be opened, and the contents mixed with applesauce. ( 2.3 ) Opened capsules can be administered through a nasogastric tube. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage in Adults by Indication Table 1 shows the recommended adult dosage of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules by indication. The duration of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules treatment should be based on available safety and efficacy data specific to the defined indication and dosing frequency and individual patient medical needs. Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules should only be initiated and continued if the benefits outweigh the risks of treatment. Table 1: Recommended Dosage of Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules in Adults by Indication 1. A maximum dosage of 20 mg once daily is recommended for patients with severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. 2. Most patients are healed within 4 to 8 weeks. For patients who do not heal after 4 to 8 weeks, an additional 4 to 8 weeks of treatment may be required to achieve healing [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . 3. Refer to the amoxicillin and clarithromycin prescribing information for dosage adjustments in elderly and renally-impaired patients. 4. A starting dosage of 20 mg twice daily is recommended for patients with severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . Adult Indication Recommended Dosage of Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules Treatment Duration Healing of EE 20 mg or 40 mg 1 once daily 4 to 8 weeks 2 Maintenance of Healing of EE 20 mg once daily Controlled studies do not extend beyond 6 months Treatment of Symptomatic GERD 20 mg once daily 4 weeks; if symptoms do not resolve completely, consider an additional 4 weeks Risk Reduction of NSAID-Associated Gastric Ulcer 20 mg or 40 mg 1 once daily Controlled studies do not extend beyond 6 months H. pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence (Triple Therapy) Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 40 mg once daily 1 Amoxicillin 1000 mg twice daily 3 Clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily 3 10 days 10 days 10 days Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Starting dosage is 40 mg twice daily 4 ; individualize the regimen to patient needs. Dosages of up to 240 mg/day have been administered [see Clinical Studies (14.7) ]. As long as clinically indicated 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients by Indication Table 2 shows the recommended dosage of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules in pediatric patients by indication. Table 2: Recommended Dosage of Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules in Pediatric Patients by Indication Indication Patient Age Recommended Dosage Duration Healing of EE 12 years to 17 years Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules: 20 mg or 40 mg once daily 4 to 8 Weeks Treatment of Symptomatic GERD 12 years to 17 years Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules: 20 mg once daily 4 weeks 2.3 Preparation and Administration Instructions Take esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules at least one hour before meals [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Antacids may be used concomitantly with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules. Take a missed dose as soon as possible. If it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and take the next dose at the regular scheduled time. Do not take 2 doses at the same time. Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules Administer esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules orally or via a nasogastric tube, as described below. Oral Administration Swallow esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules whole; do not chew or crush the capsules. For patients who have difficulty swallowing capsules, esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules can be opened, and the contents sprinkled on applesauce. Use with other foods has not been evaluated and is not recommended. Add one tablespoon of applesauce to an empty bowl. The applesauce used should not be hot and should be soft enough to be swallowed without chewing. Open the esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsule and carefully empty the granules inside the capsule onto the applesauce. Mix the granules with the applesauce. Administer the mixture immediately. Do not chew or crush the granules Discard any remaining mixture. Do not store the mixture for future use. Administration via Nasogastric Tube Open the esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsule and empty the granules into a 60 mL catheter-tipped syringe. Mix the granules with 50 mL of water. Replace the plunger and shake the catheter-tipped syringe vigorously for 15 seconds. Hold the catheter-tipped syringe with the tip up and check for any granules remaining in the tip. Attach the catheter-tipped syringe to a nasogastric tube and deliver the contents of the syringe through the nasogastric tube into the stomach. After administering the granules, flush the nasogastric tube with additional water. Use the mixture immediately after preparation. Do not administer the granules if they have dissolved or disintegrated. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Population Recommended Adult ( 2.1 ) and Pediatric Dosage ( 2.2 ) Healing of EE (1 year and older) EE due to Acid-Mediated GERD (1 month to less than 1 year) Adults 20 mg or 40 mg 1 once daily for 4 to 8 weeks; some patients may require an additional 4 to 8 weeks 12 years to 17 years 20 mg or 40 mg 1 once daily for 4 to 8 weeks Maintenance of Healing of EE Adults 20 mg once daily. Controlled studies do not extend beyond 6 months Treatment of Symptomatic GERD Adults 20 mg once daily once daily for 4 weeks some patients may require an additional 4 weeks 12 years to 17 years 20 mg once daily for 4 weeks Risk Reduction of NSAID-Associated Gastric Ulcer Adults 20 mg or 40 mg 1 once daily for up to 6 months 2 H. 1 A maximum dosage of 20 mg once daily is recommended for patients with severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh Class C). Table 1: Recommended Dosage of Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules in Adults by Indication Adult Indication Recommended Dosage of Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules Treatment Duration Healing of EE 20 mg or 40 mg 1 once daily 4 to 8 weeks 2 Maintenance of Healing of EE 20 mg once daily Controlled studies do not extend beyond 6 months Treatment of Symptomatic GERD 20 mg once daily 4 weeks; if symptoms do not resolve completely, consider an additional 4 weeks Risk Reduction of NSAID-Associated Gastric Ulcer 20 mg or 40 mg 1 once daily Controlled studies do not extend beyond 6 months H. pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence (Triple Therapy) Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 40 mg once daily 1 10 days Amoxicillin 1000 mg twice daily 3 10 days Clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily 3 10 days Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Starting dosage is 40 mg twice daily 4 ; individualize the regimen to patient needs. Dosages of up to 240 mg/day have been administered [see Clinical Studies (14.7)]. As long as clinically indicated 1. For patients who do not heal after 4 to 8 weeks, an additional 4 to 8 weeks of treatment may be required to achieve healing [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] . A starting dosage of 20 mg twice daily is recommended for patients with severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)] . 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients by Indication Table 2 shows the recommended dosage of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules in pediatric patients by indication. Table 2: Recommended Dosage of Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules in Pediatric Patients by Indication Indication Patient Age Recommended Dosage Duration Healing of EE 12 years to 17 years Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules: 20 mg or 40 mg once daily 4 to 8 Weeks Treatment of Symptomatic GERD 12 years to 17 years Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules: 20 mg once daily 4 weeks 2.3 Preparation and Administration Instructions Take esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules at least one hour before meals [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 1. Do not chew or crush the granules 5. Discard any remaining mixture. Administration via Nasogastric Tube 1. Open the esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsule and empty the granules into a 60 mL catheter-tipped syringe. 5. 6. 7. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Population Recommended Adult (2.1) and Pediatric Dosage (2.2) Healing of EE Adults 20 mg or 40 mg 1 once daily for 4 to 8 weeks; some patients may require an additional 4 to 8 weeks 12 years to 17 years 20 mg or 40 mg 1 once daily for 4 to 8 weeks Maintenance of Healing of EE Adults 20 mg once daily. pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Adults Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 40 mg 1 once daily for 10 days Amoxicillin 1,000 mg twice daily for 10 days 3 Clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily for 10 days 3 Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Adults Starting dosage is 40 mg twice daily 4 (varies with the individual patient) as long as clinically indicated. ( 2.3 ) Opened capsules can be administered through a nasogastric tube and oral suspension can be administered through a nasogastric or gastric tube. pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence (Triple Therapy) Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 40 mg once daily 1 10 days Amoxicillin 1,000 mg twice daily 3 10 days Clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily 3 10 days Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Starting dosage is 40 mg twice daily 4 ; individualize the regimen to patient needs. Dosages of up to 240 mg/day have been administered [see Clinical Studies (14.7) ] . A maximum dosage of 20 mg once daily is recommended for patients with severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. For patients who do not heal after 4 to 8 weeks, an additional 4 to 8 weeks of treatment may be required to achieve healing [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. A starting dosage of 20 mg twice daily is recommended for patients with severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. Table 2: Recommended Dosage of Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules in Pediatric Patients by Indication Indication Patient Age Recommended Dosage Duration Healing of EE 12 years to 17 years Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules: 20 mg or 40 mg once daily 4 to 8 Weeks Treatment of Symptomatic GERD 12 years to 17 years Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules: 20 mg once daily 4 weeks 2.3 Preparation and Administration Instructions .Take esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules at least one hour before meals [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Do not chew or crush the granules. Directions adults 18 years of age and older this product is to be used once a day (every 24 hours), every day for 14 days may take 1 to 4 days for full effect 14-Day Course of Treatment swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water before eating in the morning take every day for 14 days do not take more than 1 tablet a day swallow whole. Do not crush or chew tablets. do not use for more than 14 days unless directed by your doctor Repeated 14-Day Courses (if needed) you may repeat a 14-day course every 4 months do not take for more than 14 days or more often than every 4 months unless directed by a doctor children under 18 years of age: ask a doctor before use. Heartburn in children may sometimes be caused by a serious condition. Other information read the directions and warnings before use keep the carton. It contains important information. store at 20° to 25°C (68° to 77°F) Directions adults 18 years of age and older this product is to be used once a day (every 24 hours), every day for 14 days may take 1 to 4 days for full effect 14-Day Course of Treatment swallow 1 capsule with a glass of water before eating in the morning take every day for 14 days do not take more than 1 capsule a day swallow whole. Directions • adults 18 years of age and older • this product is to be used once a day (every 24 hours), every day for 14 days • may take 1 to 4 days for full effect 14-Day Course of Treatment • swallow 1 capsule with a glass of water before eating in the morning • take every day for 14 days • do not take more than 1 capsule a day • swallow whole. • do not use for more than 14 days unless directed by your doctor Repeated 14-Day Courses (if needed) • you may repeat a 14-day course every 4 months • do not take for more than 14 days or more often than every 4 months unless directed by a doctor • children under 18 years of age: ask a doctor before use.
Warnings: Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to esomeprazole. Esomeprazole may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Warnings Allergy alert: ■ Do not use if you are allergic to esomeprazole. ■ Esomeprazole may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: ■ skin reddening ■ blisters ■ rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Warnings Allergy alert Do not use if you are allergic to esomeprazole Esomeprazole may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms include: -skin reddening -blisters -rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical attention right away. Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you are allergic to esomeprazole. Warnings Allergy alert: Do not use if you are allergic to esomeprazole Esomeprazole may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms include: skin reddening blisters rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Do not use if you have: trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating or dizziness chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness frequent chest pain These may be signs of a serious condition. See your doctor. Ask a doctor before use if you have: had heartburn over 3 months. This may be a sign of a more serious condition. frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn unexplained weight loss nausea or vomiting stomach pain Warnings Allergy alert: • Do not use if you are allergic to esomeprazole. • Esomeprazole may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: • skin reddening • blisters • rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Do not use if you have: • trouble or pain swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools • heartburn with lightheadedness, sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain These may be signs of a serious condition. Ask a doctor before use if you have • had heartburn over 3 months. • frequent wheezing, particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • taking a prescription drug. Acid reducers may interact with certain prescription drugs. Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days • you need to take more than 1 course of treatment every 4 months • you get diarrhea • you develop a rash or joint pain If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222).
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to substituted benzimidazoles or to any component of the formulation. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. For information about contraindications of amoxicillin and clarithromycin, indicated in combination with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules for H. pylori eradication to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence, refer to the Contraindications section of the respective prescribing information. Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Known hypersensitivity to substituted benzimidazoles or any component of the formulation. ( 4 ) Patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products. ( 4 , 7 ) Refer to the Contraindications section of the prescribing information for amoxicillin and clarithromycin, when administered in combination with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules. ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ) ]. Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including esomeprazole magnesium, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] . · Known hypersensitivity to substituted benzimidazoles or any component of the formulation. ( 4 ) · Patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products. ( 4 , 7 ) · Refer to the Contraindications section of the prescribing information for amoxicillin and clarithromycin, when administered in combination with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to substituted benzimidazoles or to any component of the formulation. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . • For information about contraindications of amoxicillin and clarithromycin, indicated in combination with Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules for H. • Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine­containing products [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] .
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Tables 3 and 4 include drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with esomeprazole and instructions for preventing or managing them. Consult the labeling of concomitantly used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with PPIs. Table 3: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Co-Administered with Esomeprazole and Interaction with Diagnostics Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact: The effect of PPIs on antiretroviral drugs is variable. The clinical importance and the mechanisms behind these interactions are not always known. Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine atazanavir, and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with esomeprazole may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with esomeprazole may increase toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. There are other antiretroviral drugs which do not result in clinically relevant interactions with esomeprazole. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules are contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . Atazanavir: See prescribing information for atazanavir for dosing information. Nelfinavir: Avoid concomitant use with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules. See prescribing information for nelfinavir. Saquinavir: See the prescribing information for saquinavir for monitoring of potential saquinavir-related toxicities. Other antiretrovirals: See prescribing information for specific antiretroviral drugs Warfarin Clinical Impact: Increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving PPIs, including esomeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Intervention: Monitor INR and prothrombin time and adjust the dose of warfarin, if needed, to maintain the target INR range. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of esomeprazole with methotrexate (primarily at high dose) may elevate and prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. Intervention: A temporary withdrawal of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules may be considered in some patients receiving high-dose methotrexate. 2C19 Substrates (e.g., clopidogrel, citalopram, cilostazol) Clopidogrel Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of esomeprazole 40 mg resulted in reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in platelet inhibition [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. There are no adequate combination studies of a lower dose of esomeprazole or a higher dose of clopidogrel in comparison with the approved dose of clopidogrel . Intervention: Avoid concomitant use with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules Consider use of alternative anti-platelet therapy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Citalopram Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of citalopram leading to an increased risk of QT prolongation [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Limit the dose of citalopram to a maximum of 20 mg per day. See prescribing information for citalopram. Cilostazol Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of cilostazol and one of its active metabolites (3,4-dihydro-cilostazol) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Consider reducing the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily. See prescribing information for cilostazol. Digoxin Clinical Impact: Potential for increased exposure of digoxin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Monitor digoxin concentrations and adjust the dose, if needed, to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations. See prescribing information for digoxin. Combination Therapy with Clarithromycin and Amoxicillin Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions, including potentially fatal arrhythmias, and are contraindicated. Amoxicillin also has drug interactions. Intervention: See Contraindications, Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin. See Drug Interactions in prescribing information for amoxicillin. Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption (e.g., iron salts, erlotinib, dasatinib, nilotinib, mycophenolate mofetil, ketoconazole/itraconazole) Clinical Impact: Esomeprazole can reduce the absorption of other drugs due to its effect on reducing intragastric acidity Intervention: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Co-administration of omeprazole, of which esomeprazole is an enantiomer, in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH. The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules and MMF. Use esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . See the prescribing information for other drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption. Tacrolimus Clinical Impact: Potentially increased exposure of tacrolimus, especially in transplant patients who are intermediate or poor metabolizers of CYP2C19 . Intervention: Monitor tacrolimus whole blood concentrations and consider reducing the dose, if needed, to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations. See prescribing information for tacrolimus. Interactions with Investigations of Neuroendocrine Tumors Clinical Impact: Serum chromogranin A (CgA) levels increase secondary to PPI-induced decreases in gastric acidity. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Intervention: Discontinue esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. If serial tests are performed (e.g. for monitoring), the same commercial laboratory should be used for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary. Interaction with Secretin Stimulation Test Clinical Impact: Hyper-response in gastrin secretion in response to secretin stimulation test, falsely suggesting gastrinoma. Intervention: Discontinue esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 4 weeks prior to testing [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact: There have been reports of false positive urine screening test for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving PPIs. Intervention: An alternative confirmatory method should be considered to verify positive results. Table 4: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Esomeprazole When Co-Administered with Other Drugs CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: Decreased exposure of esomeprazole when used concomitantly with strong inducers [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: St. John’s Wort, rifampin: Avoid concomitant use with [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. Ritonavir-containing products: see prescribing information for specific drugs Voriconazole Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of esomeprazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Dose adjustment of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules is not normally required. However, in patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, who may require higher doses, dosage adjustment may be considered. See prescribing information for voriconazole. See full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions. ( 7 ) Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine, atazanavir, and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with esomeprazole may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with esomeprazole may increase toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products : Concomitant use with esomeprazole magnesium is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)] . Atazanavir : See prescribing information for atazanavir for dosing information. Nelfinavir : Avoid concomitant use with esomeprazole magnesium. Saquinavir : See the prescribing information for saquinavir for monitoring of potential saquinavir-related toxicities. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . Intervention: A temporary withdrawal of esomeprazole magnesium may be considered in some patients receiving high-dose methotrexate. 2C19 Substrates (e.g., clopidogrel, citalopram, cilostazol) Clopidogrel Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of esomeprazole 40 mg resulted in reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in platelet inhibition [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . There are no adequate combination studies of a lower dose of esomeprazole or a higher dose of clopidogrel in comparison with the approved dose of clopidogrel. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules Consider use of alternative anti-platelet therapy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving esomeprazole magnesium and MMF. Use esomeprazole magnesium with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Tacrolimus Clinical Impact: Potentially increased exposure of tacrolimus, especially in transplant patients who are intermediate or poor metabolizers of CYP2C19. Intervention: Discontinue esomeprazole magnesium at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. Intervention: Discontinue esomeprazole magnesium 4 weeks prior to testing [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact: There have been reports of false positive urine screening test for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving PPIs. John’s Wort, rifampin : Avoid concomitant use with [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. Ritonavir-containing products : see prescribing information for specific drugs Voriconazole Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of esomeprazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Dose adjustment of esomeprazole magnesium is not normally required. Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine atazanavir, and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with esomeprazole may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with esomeprazole may increase toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . Other antiretrovirals: See prescribing information for specific antiretroviral drugs. Warfarin Clinical Impact: Increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving PPIs, including esomeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption (e.g., iron salts, erlotinib, dasatinib, nilotinib, mycophenolate mofetil, ketoconazole/itraconazole) Clinical Impact: Esomeprazole can reduce the absorption of other drugs due to its effect on reducing intragastric acidity. Intervention: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Co-administration of omeprazole, of which esomeprazole is an enantiomer, in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH. Use esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Ritonavir-containing products: see prescribing information for specific drugs. Voriconazole Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of esomeprazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ].

=== FLUOROURACIL ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluorouracil Cream is recommended for the topical treatment of multiple actinic or solar keratoses. In the 5% strength, it is also useful in the treatment of superficial basal cell carcinomas when conventional methods are impractical, such as with multiple lesions or difficult treatment sites. Safety and efficacy in other indications have not been established. The diagnosis should be established prior to treatment, since this method has not been proven effective in other types of basal cell carcinomas. With isolated, easily accessible basal cell carcinomas, surgery is preferred since success with such lesions is almost 100%. The success rate with Fluorouracil Cream is approximately 93%, based on 113 lesions in 54 patients. Eighty-eight lesions treated with the cream produced 7 failures. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Fluorouracil is indicated for the treatment of patients with: Fluorouracil is a nucleoside metabolic inhibitor indicated for the treatment of patients with • Adenocarcinoma of the Colon and Rectum ( 1.1 ) • Adenocarcinoma of the Breast ( 1.2 ) • Gastric Adenocarcinoma ( 1.3 ) • Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Adenocarcinoma of the Colon and Rectum 1.2 Adenocarcinoma of the Breast 1.3 Gastric Adenocarcinoma 1.4 Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma 1.1 Adenocarcinoma of the Colon and Rectum 1.2 Adenocarcinoma of the Breast 1.3 Gastric Adenocarcinoma 1.4 Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluorouracil injection is indicated for the treatment of patients with: Fluorouracil injection is a nucleoside metabolic inhibitor indicated for the treatment of patients with Adenocarcinoma of the Colon and Rectum ( 1.1 ) Adenocarcinoma of the Breast ( 1.2 ) Gastric Adenocarcinoma ( 1.3 ) Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Adenocarcinoma of the Colon and Rectum . 1.2 Adenocarcinoma of the Breast . 1.3 Gastric Adenocarcinoma . 1.4 Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma . INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluorouracil is recommended for the topical treatment of multiple actinic or solar keratoses. The success rate with fluorouracil topical solution is approximately 93%, based on 113 lesions in 54 patients. Twenty-five lesions treated with the solution produced 1 failure. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE FAVLYXA is indicated for the treatment of patients with: FAVLYXA is a nucleoside metabolic inhibitor indicated for the treatment of patients with: Adenocarcinoma of the Colon and Rectum ( 1.1 ) Adenocarcinoma of the Breast ( 1.2 ) Gastric Adenocarcinoma ( 1.3 ) Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Adenocarcinoma of the Colon and Rectum 1.2 Adenocarcinoma of the Breast 1.3 Gastric Adenocarcinoma 1.4 Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluorouracil is indicated for the treatment of patients with: • Adenocarcinoma of the Colon and Rectum • Adenocarcinoma of the Breast • Gastric Adenocarcinoma • Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma Fluorouracil is a nucleoside metabolic inhibitor indicated for the treatment of patients with • Adenocarcinoma of the Colon and Rectum ( 1 ) • Adenocarcinoma of the Breast ( 1 ) • Gastric Adenocarcinoma ( 1 ) • Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma ( 1 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE: Fluorouracil is recommended for the topical treatment of multiple actinic or solar keratoses. The success rate with fluorouracil solution and a different dosage form is approximately 93%, based on 113 lesions in 54 patients. Twenty-five lesions treated with the solution produced 1 failure and 88 lesions treated with a different dosage form produced 7 failures.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION When Fluorouracil Cream is applied to a lesion, a response occurs with the following sequence: erythema, usually followed by vesiculation, desquamation, erosion, and re-epithelialization. Fluorouracil Cream should be applied preferably with a nonmetal applicator or suitable glove. If Fluorouracil Cream is applied with the fingers, the hands should be washed immediately afterward. Actinic or Solar Keratosis Apply cream twice daily in an amount sufficient to cover the lesions. Medication should be continued until the inflammatory response reaches the erosion stage, at which time use of the drug should be terminated. The usual duration of therapy is from 2 to 4 weeks. Complete healing of the lesions may not be evident for 1 to 2 months following cessation of Fluorouracil Cream therapy. Superficial Basal Cell Carcinomas Only the 5% strength is recommended. Apply cream twice daily in an amount sufficient to cover the lesions. Treatment should be continued for at least 3 to 6 weeks. Therapy may be required for as long as 10 to 12 weeks before the lesions are obliterated. As in any neoplastic condition, the patient should be followed for a reasonable period of time to determine if a cure has been obtained. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION •Fluorouracil is recommended for administration either as an intravenous bolus or as an intravenous infusion. (2.1 ) •See Full Prescribing Information for dose individualization (2.1) and dose modifications due to adverse reactions (2.6 ) •See Full Prescribing Information for recommended doses of fluorouracil for adenocarcinoma of the colon and rectum ( 2.2 ) and for recommended doses of fluorouracil as a component of a chemotherapy regimen for adenocarcinoma of the breast (2.3 ), gastric adenocarcinoma ( 2.4 ), pancreatic adenocarcinoma ( 2.5 ) 2.1 General Dose Information Fluorouracil is recommended for administration either as an intravenous bolus or as an intravenous infusion. Do not inject the entire contents of the vial directly into patients. Individualize the dose and dosing schedule of fluorouracil based on tumor type, the specific regimen administered, disease state, response to treatment, and patient risk factors. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Adenocarcinoma of the Colon and Rectum The recommended dose of fluorouracil, administered in an infusional regimen in combination with leucovorin alone, or in combination with leucovorin and oxaliplatin or irinotecan, is 400 mg/m 2 by intravenous bolus on Day 1, followed by 2400 mg/m 2 to 3000 mg/m 2 intravenously as a continuous infusion over 46 hours every two weeks. The recommended dose of fluorouracil, if administered in a bolus dosing regimen in combination with leucovorin, is 500 mg/m 2 by intravenous bolus on Days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36 in 8-week cycles. 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Adenocarcinoma of the Breast The recommended dose of fluorouracil, administered as a component of a cyclophosphamide-based multidrug regimen, is 500 mg/m 2 or 600 mg/m 2 intravenously on Days 1 and 8 every 28 days for 6 cycles. 2.4 Recommended Dosage for Gastric Adenocarcinoma The recommended dose of fluorouracil, administered as a component of a platinum-containing multidrug chemotherapy regimen, is 200 mg/m 2 to 1000 mg/m 2 intravenously as a continuous infusion over 24 hours. The frequency of dosing in each cycle and the length of each cycle will depend on the dose of fluorouracil and the specific regimen administered. 2.5 Recommended Dosage for Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma The recommended dose of fluorouracil, administered as an infusional regimen in combination with leucovorin or as a component of a multidrug chemotherapy regimen that includes leucovorin, is 400 mg/m 2 intravenous bolus on Day 1, followed by 2400 mg/m 2 intravenously as a continuous infusion over 46 hours every two weeks. 2.6 Dose Modifications Withhold fluorouracil for any of the following: Development of angina, myocardial infarction/ischemia, arrhythmia, or heart failure in patients with no history of coronary artery disease or myocardial dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Hyperammonemic encephalopathy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] Acute cerebellar syndrome, confusion, disorientation, ataxia, or visual disturbances [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] Grade 3 or 4 diarrhea [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] Grade 2 or 3 palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand-foot syndrome) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] Grade 3 or 4 mucositis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] Grade 4 myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] Upon resolution or improvement to Grade 1 diarrhea, mucositis, myelosuppression, or palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia, resume fluorouracil administration at a reduced dose. There is no recommended dose for resumption of fluorouracil administration following development of any of the following adverse reactions: Cardiac toxicity Hyperammonemic encephalopathy Acute cerebellar syndrome, confusion, disorientation, ataxia, or visual disturbances 2.7 Preparation for Administration Fluorouracil is supplied in a single dose vial. The 10 mL/20 mL vial is only intended for preparation in a Pharmacy Admixture Service under appropriate conditions for cytotoxic drugs [see References ( 15 )] . Store vial at room temperature. Using aseptic conditions, penetrate the container closure once with a suitable sterile transfer device or dispensing set that allows measured distribution of the contents. Withdraw the calculated dose for an individual patient into a sterile syringe. Inspect the solution in syringe for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration or further dilution. Discard syringe if the solution is discolored or contains particulate matter. 2.8 Administration Do not administer in the same intravenous line concomitantly with other medicinal products. For bolus administration, store undiluted fluorouracil in the syringe for up to 4 hours at room temperature (25°C). Administer fluorouracil as an intravenous bolus through an established intravenous line. Store diluted solutions of fluorouracil for up to 4 hours at room temperature (25°C) prior to administration to the patient. For intravenous infusion regimens, administer through a central venous line using an infusion pump. 2.1 General Dose Information Fluorouracil is recommended for administration either as an intravenous bolus or as an intravenous infusion. There is no recommended dose for resumption of fluorouracil administration following development of any of the following adverse reactions: Cardiac toxicity Hyperammonemic encephalopathy Acute cerebellar syndrome, confusion, disorientation, ataxia, or visual disturbances 2.7 Preparation for Administration Fluorouracil is supplied in a single dose vial. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Fluorouracil injection is recommended for administration either as an intravenous bolus or as an intravenous infusion. ( 2.2 ) See Full Prescribing Information for dose individualization ( 2.2 ) and dose modifications due to adverse reactions ( 2.7 ) See Full Prescribing Information for recommended doses of fluorouracil injection for adenocarcinoma of the colon and rectum ( 2.3 ) and for recommended doses of fluorouracil injection as a component of a chemotherapy regimen for adenocarcinoma of the breast ( 2.4 ), gastric adenocarcinoma ( 2.5 ), pancreatic adenocarcinoma ( 2.6 ) Single-Dose Vials: Use within 4 hours of puncture ( 2.8 , 2.9 ) 2.1 Evaluation and Testing for DPD Deficiency Before Initiating Fluorouracil Prior to initiating fluorouracil, test patients for genetic variants of the DPYD gene unless immediate treatment is necessary. An FDA-authorized test for the detection of the DPYD gene to identify patients at risk of serious adverse reactions with fluorouracil is not currently available. Currently available tests used to identify DPYD variants may vary in accuracy and design (e.g., which DPYD variant(s) they identify). Avoid use of fluorouracil in patients known to have certain homozygous or compound heterozygous DPYD variants that result in complete DPD deficiency. No fluorouracil dose has been proven safe for patients with complete DPD deficiency. For patients with partial DPD deficiency, individualize the dosage and modify based on tolerability and intent of treatment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 2.2 General Dosage Information Fluorouracil injection is recommended for administration either as an intravenous bolus or as an intravenous infusion. 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Adenocarcinoma of the Colon and Rectum The recommended dose of fluorouracil injection, administered in an infusional regimen in combination with leucovorin alone, or in combination with leucovorin and oxaliplatin or irinotecan, is 400 mg/m 2 by intravenous bolus on Day 1, followed by 2400 mg/m 2 to 3000 mg/m 2 intravenously as a continuous infusion over 46 hours every two weeks. The recommended dose of fluorouracil injection, if administered in a bolus dosing regimen in combination with leucovorin, is 500 mg/m 2 by intravenous bolus on Days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36 in 8 week cycles. 2.4 Recommended Dosage for Adenocarcinoma of the Breast The recommended dose of fluorouracil injection, administered as a component of a cyclophosphamide-based multidrug regimen, is 500 mg/m 2 or 600 mg/m 2 intravenously on Days 1 and 8 every 28 days for 6 cycles. 2.5 Recommended Dosage for Gastric Adenocarcinoma The recommended dose of fluorouracil injection, administered as a component of a platinum-containing multidrug chemotherapy regimen, is 200 mg/m 2 to 1000 mg/m 2 intravenously as a continuous infusion over 24 hours. The frequency of dosing in each cycle and the length of each cycle will depend on the dose of fluorouracil injection and the specific regimen administered. 2.6 Recommended Dosage for Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma The recommended dose of fluorouracil injection, administered as an infusional regimen in combination with leucovorin or as a component of a multidrug chemotherapy regimen that includes leucovorin, is 400 mg/m 2 intravenous bolus on Day 1, followed by 2400 mg/m 2 intravenously as a continuous infusion over 46 hours every two weeks. 2.7 Dose Modifications Withhold fluorouracil injection for any of the following: Development of angina, myocardial infarction/ischemia, arrhythmia, or heart failure in patients with no history of coronary artery disease or myocardial dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Hyperammonemic encephalopathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Acute cerebellar syndrome, confusion, disorientation, ataxia, or visual disturbances [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Grade 3 or 4 diarrhea [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] Grade 2 or 3 palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand-foot syndrome) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] Grade 3 or 4 mucositis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] Grade 4 myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] Upon resolution or improvement to Grade 1 diarrhea, mucositis, myelosuppression, or palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia, resume fluorouracil injection administration at a reduced dose. There is no recommended dose for resumption of fluorouracil injection administration following development of any of the following adverse reactions: Cardiac toxicity Hyperammonemic encephalopathy Acute cerebellar syndrome, confusion, disorientation, ataxia, or visual disturbances 2.8 Preparation for Administration The 500 mg/10 mL and 1 g/20 mL vial is only intended for preparation in a Pharmacy Admixture Service under appropriate conditions for cytotoxic drugs [see References (15) ]. Discard syringe if the solution is discolored or contains particulate matter . 2.9 Administration Do not administer in the same intravenous line concomitantly with other medicinal products. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION When fluorouracil is applied to a lesion, a response occurs with the following sequence: erythema, usually followed by vesiculation, desquamation, erosion, and re-epithelialization. Fluorouracil should be applied preferably with a nonmetal applicator or suitable glove. If fluorouracil is applied with the fingers, the hands should be washed immediately afterward. Actinic or Solar Keratosis Apply solution twice daily in an amount sufficient to cover the lesions. Complete healing of the lesions may not be evident for 1 to 2 months following cessation of fluorouracil therapy. Apply solution twice daily in an amount sufficient to cover the lesions. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION FAVLYXA is recommended for administration either as an intravenous bolus or as an intravenous infusion. ( 2.1 ) Adenocarcinoma of the Colon and Rectum In combination with leucovorin or as a component of a multidrug chemotherapy regimen that includes leucovorin (infusional regimen): 400 mg/m 2 for one dose, followed by 2,400 mg/m 2 to 3,000 mg/m 2 over 46 hours on day 1 of each 2-week cycle or In combination with leucovorin (bolus regimen): 500 mg/m 2 on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29 and 36 of each 8-week cycle. ( 2.2 ) Adenocarcinoma of the Breast in combination with a cyclophosphamide-based multidrug regimen: 500 mg/m 2 or 600 mg/m 2 on days 1 and 8 of each 28-day cycle (bolus regimen). ( 2.2 ) Gastric Adenocarcinoma in combination with a platinum-containing multidrug regimen: 200 mg/m 2 to 1,000 mg/m 2 over 24 hours (infusional regimen). ( 2.2 ) Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma in combination with leucovorin or as a component of a multidrug chemotherapy regimen that includes leucovorin: 400 mg/m 2 on day 1, followed by 2,400 mg/m 2 over 46 hours every 2 weeks (infusional regimen). ( 2.2 ) Refer to Section 2.3 for dosage modifications due to adverse reactions. 2.1 Evaluation and Testing for DPD Deficiency Before Initiating FAVLYXA Prior to initiating FAVLYXA, test patients for genetic variants of the DPYD gene unless immediate treatment is necessary. An FDA-authorized test for the detection of the DPYD gene to identify patients at risk of serious adverse reactions with FAVLYXA is not currently available. Avoid use of FAVLYXA in patients known to have certain homozygous or compound heterozygous DPYD variants that result in complete DPD deficiency . No FAVLYXA dose has been proven safe for patients with complete DPD deficiency. For patients with partial DPD deficiency, individualize the dosage and modify based on tolerability and intent of treatment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 2.2 Recommended Dosage FAVLYXA is recommended for administration either as an intravenous bolus or as an intravenous infusion. Dosage recommendations are in Table 1. Table 1: Recommended dosage of FAVLYXA Indication Recommended Dosage Duration of Treatment Adenocarcinoma of the Colon and Rectum In combination with leucovorin or as a component of a multidrug chemotherapy regimen that includes leucovorin 400 mg/m 2 for one dose, followed by 2,400 mg/m 2 to 3,000 mg/m 2 over 46 hours on day 1 of each 2-week cycle Until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. In combination with leucovorin alone (bolus regimen) 500 mg/m 2 on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29 and 36 of each 8-week cycle Until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Adenocarcinoma of the Breast In combination with cyclophosphamide-based multidrug regimen (bolus regimen) 500 mg/m 2 or 600 mg/m 2 on days 1 and 8 of each 28-day cycle Until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity or 6 cycles Gastric Adenocarcinoma In combination with a platinum-containing multidrug regimen 200 mg/m 2 to 1,000 mg/m 2 over 24 hours Frequency in each cycle and length of each cycle depend on dose of FAVLYXA and specific regimen Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma In combination with leucovorin or as a component of a multidrug chemotherapy regimen that includes leucovorin 400 mg/m 2 on day 1, followed by 2,400 mg/m 2 over 46 hours every 2 weeks Until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. 2.3 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Withhold FAVLYXA for the following adverse reactions. Depending on the severity of the adverse reaction, either discontinue or resume FAVLYXA at a reduced dosage upon resolution or improvement to Grade 1: Grade 3 or 4 diarrhea [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] Grade 2 or 3 palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand-foot syndrome) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] Grade 3 or 4 mucositis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] Grade 4 myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] There is no recommended dose for resumption of FAVLYXA administration following development of any of the following adverse reactions; consider permanent discontinuation of FAVLYXA following: Development of angina, myocardial infarction/ischemia, arrhythmia, or heart failure in patients with no history of coronary artery disease or myocardial dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Hyperammonemic encephalopathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Neurologic toxicity including acute cerebellar syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] 2.4 Preparation and Administration FAVLYXA is a hazardous drug. Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures 1 . Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. For Direct Intravenous Bolus Injection Preparation Select the appropriate number of vial(s) based on the prescribed dose. Withdraw the calculated dose into a sterile syringe. Discard partially used or empty vials of FAVLYXA. Administration Administer FAVLYXA as an intravenous bolus through an established intravenous line over 2 to 5 minutes. Do not administer in the same intravenous line concomitantly with other medicinal products. Storage If the dose is not administered, attach a tip cap to the syringe prior to storage. The syringe can be stored at room temperature 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F) for up to 4 hours. For Intravenous Infusion Preparation Select the appropriate number of vial(s) based on the prescribed dose. Dilute the calculated dose in an appropriate amount of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, or 5% Dextrose Injection, to prepare an infusion solution with a final concentration ranging from 1.5 mg/mL to 10 mg/mL. Administration Do not administer in the same intravenous line concomitantly with other medicinal products. Storage If not used immediately, the diluted FAVLYXA can be stored at room temperature 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F) for up to 24 hours. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Fluorouracil is recommended for administration either as an intravenous bolus or as an intravenous infusion. ( 2.1 ) • See Full Prescribing Information for dose individualization ( 2.1 ) and dose modifications due to adverse reactions ( 2.6 ) • See Full Prescribing Information for recommended doses of fluorouracil for adenocarcinoma of the colon and rectum ( 2.2 ) and for recommended doses of fluorouracil as a component of a chemotherapy regimen for adenocarcinoma of the breast ( 2.3 ), gastric adenocarcinoma ( 2.4 ), pancreatic adenocarcinoma ( 2.5 ) • Pharmacy Bulk Package: Prepare doses for more than one patient in a Pharmacy Admixture Service under appropriate conditions for cytotoxic drugs. Do not inject entire contents of vial directly into patients. Use within 4 hours of puncture ( 2.7 , 2.8 ) 2.1 General Dosage Information Fluorouracil is recommended for administration either as an intravenous bolus or as an intravenous infusion. Do not inject the entire contents of the vial directly into patients . 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Adenocarcinoma of the Colon and Rectum • The recommended dose of fluorouracil, administered in an infusional regimen in combination with leucovorin alone, or in combination with leucovorin and oxaliplatin or irinotecan, is 400 mg/m 2 by intravenous bolus on Day 1, followed by 2,400 mg/m 2 to 3,000 mg/m 2 intravenously as a continuous infusion over 46 hours every two weeks. • The recommended dose of fluorouracil, if administered in a bolus dosing regimen in combination with leucovorin, is 500 mg/m 2 by intravenous bolus on Days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36 in 8-week cycles. 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Adenocarcinoma of the Breast • The recommended dose of fluorouracil, administered as a component of a cyclophosphamide-based multidrug regimen, is 500 mg/m 2 or 600 mg/m 2 intravenously on Days 1 and 8 every 28 days for 6 cycles. 2.4 Recommended Dosage for Gastric Adenocarcinoma • The recommended dose of fluorouracil, administered as a component of a platinum-containing multidrug chemotherapy regimen, is 200 mg/m 2 to 1,000 mg/m 2 intravenously as a continuous infusion over 24 hours. 2.5 Recommended Dosage for Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma • The recommended dose of fluorouracil, administered as an infusional regimen in combination with leucovorin or as a component of a multidrug chemotherapy regimen that includes leucovorin, is 400 mg/m 2 intravenous bolus on Day 1, followed by 2,400 mg/m 2 intravenously as a continuous infusion over 46 hours every two weeks. 2.6 Dose Modifications Withhold fluorouracil for any of the following: • Development of angina, myocardial infarction/ischemia, arrhythmia, or heart failure in patients with no history of coronary artery disease or myocardial dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] • Hyperammonemic encephalopathy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] • Acute cerebellar syndrome, confusion, disorientation, ataxia, or visual disturbances [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] • Grade 3 or 4 diarrhea [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] • Grade 2 or 3 palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand-foot syndrome) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] • Grade 3 or 4 mucositis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] • Grade 4 myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] Upon resolution or improvement to Grade 1 diarrhea, mucositis, myelosuppression, or palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia, resume fluorouracil administration at a reduced dose. There is no recommended dose for resumption of fluorouracil administration following development of any of the following adverse reactions: • Cardiac toxicity • Hyperammonemic encephalopathy • Acute cerebellar syndrome, confusion, disorientation, ataxia, or visual disturbances 2.7 Preparation for Administration Fluorouracil is supplied in a pharmacy bulk package consisting of a vial. The pharmacy bulk package can be used to prepare doses for more than one patient. It is not supplied with a sterile transfer device, which is required for dispensing when multiple doses will be prepared from the single vial. The vial is only intended for preparation in a Pharmacy Admixture Service under appropriate conditions for cytotoxic drugs [see References ( 15 )] . Record the date and time the vial was opened on the vial label. Discard the pharmacy bulk package 4 hours after penetration of the container closure. Note Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Although the Fluorouracil solution may discolor slightly during storage, the potency and safety are not adversely affected. If a precipitate occurs in intact vials due to exposure to low temperatures, resolubilize by heating to 140°F and shaking vigorously; allow to cool to body temperature before using. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: When fluorouracil topical solution USP, 5% is applied to a lesion, a response occurs with the following sequence: erythema, usually followed by vesiculation, desquamation, erosion, and re-epithelialization. Fluorouracil topical solution USP, 5% should be applied preferably with a nonmetal applicator or suitable glove. Actinic or Solar Keratosis: Apply solution twice daily in an amount sufficient to cover the lesions. Superficial Basal Cell Carcinomas: Only the 5% strength is recommended . 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION • Fluorouracil is recommended for administration either as an intravenous bolus or as an intravenous infusion. ( 2.2 ) • See Full Prescribing Information for dose individualization ( 2.2 ) and dose modifications due to adverse reactions ( 2.7 ) • See Full Prescribing Information for recommended doses of fluorouracil for adenocarcinoma of the colon and rectum ( 2.3 ) and for recommended doses of fluorouracil as a component of a chemotherapy regimen for adenocarcinoma of the breast ( 2.4 ), gastric adenocarcinoma ( 2.5 ), pancreatic adenocarcinoma ( 2.6 ) • Pharmacy Bulk Package: Prepare doses for more than one patient in a Pharmacy Admixture Service under appropriate conditions for cytotoxic drugs. Use within 4 hours of puncture ( 2.8 , 2.9 ) 2.1 Evaluation and Testing for DPD Deficiency Before Initiating fluorouracil Prior to initiating fluorouracil, test patients for genetic variants of the DPYD gene unless immediate treatment is necessary. An FDA authorized test for the detection of the DPYD gene to identify patients at risk of serious adverse reactions with fluorouracil is not currently available. For patients with partial DPD deficiency, individualize the dosage and modify based on tolerability and intent of treatment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. 2.2 General Dosage Information Fluorouracil is recommended for administration either as an intravenous bolus or as anintravenous infusion. 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Adenocarcinoma of the Colon and Rectum The recommended dose of fluorouracil, administered in an infusional regimen in combination with leucovorin alone, or in combination with leucovorin and oxaliplatin or irinotecan, is 400 mg/m2 by intravenous bolus on Day 1, followed by 2400 mg/m2 to 3000 mg/m2 intravenously as a continuous infusion over 46 hours every two weeks. The recommended dose of fluorouracil, if administered in a bolus dosing regimen in combination with leucovorin, is 500 mg/m2 by intravenous bolus on Days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36 in 8-week cycles. 2.4 Recommended Dosage for Adenocarcinoma of the Breast • The recommended dose of fluorouracil, administered as a component of a cyclophosphamide based multidrug regimen, is 500 mg/m2 or 600 mg/m2 intravenously on Days 1 and 8 every 28 days for 6 cycles. 2.5 Recommended Dosage for Gastric Adenocarcinoma The recommended dose of fluorouracil, administered as a component of a platinum-containing multidrug chemotherapy regimen, is 200 mg/m2 to 1000 mg/m2 intravenously as a continuous infusion over 24 hours. 2.6 Recommended Dosage for Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma The recommended dose of fluorouracil, administered as an infusional regimen in combination with leucovorin or as a component of a multidrug chemotherapy regimen that includes leucovorin, is 400 mg/m2 intravenous bolus on Day 1, followed by 2400 mg/m2 intravenously as a continuous infusion over 46 hours every two weeks. 2.7 Dose Modifications Withhold fluorouracil for any of the following: • Development of angina, myocardial infarction/ischemia, arrhythmia, or heart failure in patients with no history of coronary artery disease or myocardial dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] • Hyperammonemic encephalopathy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] • Acute cerebellar syndrome, confusion, disorientation, ataxia, or visual disturbances [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] • Grade 3 or 4 diarrhea [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] • Grade 2 or 3 palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand-foot syndrome) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] • Grade 3 or 4 mucositis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] • Grade 4 myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] Upon resolution or improvement to Grade 1 diarrhea, mucositis, myelosuppression, or palmarplantar erythrodysesthesia, resume fluorouracil administration at a reduced dose. There is no recommended dose for resumption of fluorouracil administration following development of any of the following adverse reactions: • Cardiac toxicity • Hyperammonemic encephalopathy • Acute cerebellar syndrome, confusion, disorientation, ataxia, or visual disturbances 2.8 Preparation for Administration Fluorouracil is supplied in a pharmacy bulk package consisting of a vial. The 50 mL/100 mL vial is only intended for preparation in a Pharmacy Admixture Service under appropriate conditions for cytotoxic drugs [see References ( 15 )]. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION When Fluorouracil Cream, USP 5% is applied to a lesion, a response occurs with the following sequence: erythema, usually followed by vesiculation, desquamation, erosion, and re-epithelialization. Fluorouracil Cream, USP 5% should be applied preferably with a nonmetal applicator or suitable glove. Actinic or Solar Keratosis: Apply cream twice daily in an amount sufficient to cover the lesions.
Warnings: WARNINGS Application to mucous membranes should be avoided due to the possibility of local inflammation and ulceration. Additionally, cases of miscarriage and a birth defect (ventricular septal defect) have been reported when Fluorouracil Cream was applied to mucous membrane areas during pregnancy. Occlusion of the skin with resultant hydration has been shown to increase percutaneous penetration of several topical preparations. If any occlusive dressing is used in treatment of basal cell carcinoma, there may be an increase in the severity of inflammatory reactions in the adjacent normal skin. A porous gauze dressing may be applied for cosmetic reasons without increase in reaction. Exposure to ultraviolet rays should be minimized during and immediately following treatment with Fluorouracil Cream because the intensity of the reaction may be increased. Patients should discontinue therapy with Fluorouracil Cream if symptoms of DPD enzyme deficiency develop (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Rarely, life-threatening toxicities such as stomatitis, diarrhea, neutropenia, and neurotoxicity have been reported with intravenous administration of fluorouracil in patients with DPD enzyme deficiency. One case of life-threatening systemic toxicity has been reported with the topical use of Fluorouracil Cream in a patient with DPD enzyme deficiency. Symptoms included severe abdominal pain, bloody diarrhea, vomiting, fever, and chills. Physical examination revealed stomatitis, erythematous skin rash, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, inflammation of the esophagus, stomach, and small bowel. Although this case was observed with 5% fluorouracil cream, it is unknown whether patients with profound DPD enzyme deficiency would develop systemic toxicity with lower concentrations of topically applied fluorouracil. Additionally, cases of miscarriage and a birth defect (ventricular septal defect) have been reported when fluorouracil was applied to mucous membrane areas during pregnancy. Exposure to ultraviolet rays should be minimized during and immediately following treatment with fluorouracil because the intensity of the reaction may be increased. Patients should discontinue therapy with fluorouracil if symptoms of DPD enzyme deficiency develop (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). One case of life-threatening systemic toxicity has been reported with the topical use of fluorouracil in a patient with DPD enzyme deficiency. WARNINGS: Application to mucous membranes should be avoided due to the possibility of local inflammation and ulceration. Patients should discontinue therapy with fluorouracil topical solution if symptoms of DPD enzyme deficiency develop (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Additionally, cases of miscarriage and a birth defect (ventricular septal defect) have been reported when fluorouracil was applied to mucous membrane areas during pregnancy .
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Fluorouracil Cream may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women with either the topical or the parenteral forms of fluorouracil. One birth defect (cleft lip and palate) has been reported in the newborn of a patient using Fluorouracil Cream as recommended. One birth defect (ventricular septal defect) and cases of miscarriage have been reported when Fluorouracil Cream was applied to mucous membrane areas. Multiple birth defects have been reported in a fetus of a patient treated with intravenous fluorouracil. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Fluorouracil Cream. Fluorouracil administered parenterally has been shown to be teratogenic in mice, rats, and hamsters when given at doses equivalent to the usual human intravenous dose; however, the amount of fluorouracil absorbed systemically after topical administration to actinic keratoses is minimal (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Fluorouracil exhibited maximum teratogenicity when given to mice as single intraperitoneal injections of 10 to 40 mg/kg on Day 10 or 12 of gestation. Similarly, intraperitoneal doses of 12 to 37 mg/kg given to rats between Days 9 and 12 of gestation and intramuscular doses of 3 to 9 mg/kg given to hamsters between Days 8 and 11 of gestation were teratogenic and/or embryotoxic (i.e., resulted in increased resorptions or embryolethality). In monkeys, divided doses of 40 mg/kg given between Days 20 and 24 of gestation were not teratogenic. Doses higher than 40 mg/kg resulted in abortion. Fluorouracil Cream should not be used in patients with dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) enzyme deficiency. A large percentage of fluorouracil is catabolized by the DPD enzyme. DPD enzyme deficiency can result in shunting of fluorouracil to the anabolic pathway, leading to cytotoxic activity and potential toxicities. Fluorouracil Cream is contraindicated in women who are or may become pregnant during therapy. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while using this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Fluorouracil Cream is also contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its components. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None. None (4) None ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Fluorouracil may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. One birth defect (cleft lip and palate) has been reported in the newborn of a patient using fluorouracil as recommended. One birth defect (ventricular septal defect) and cases of miscarriage have been reported when fluorouracil was applied to mucous membrane areas. Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with fluorouracil. Fluorouracil should not be used in patients with dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) enzyme deficiency. Fluorouracil is contraindicated in women who are or may become pregnant during therapy. Fluorouracil is also contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its components. None. ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS: Fluorouracil may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Anticoagulants and CYP 2C9 Substrates Elevated coagulation times have been reported in patients taking fluorouracil concomitantly with warfarin. While pharmacokinetic data are not available to assess the effect of fluorouracil administration on warfarin pharmacokinetics, the elevation of coagulation times that occurs with the fluorouracil prodrug capecitabine is accompanied by an increase in warfarin concentrations. Thus, the interaction may be due to inhibition of cytochrome P450 2C9 by fluorouracil or its metabolites. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Effect of FAVLYXA on Other Drugs Vitamin K Antagonists Monitor INR and PT more frequently in patients receiving FAVLYXA and warfarin. Elevated INR and PT have been reported in patients taking fluorouracil concomitantly with warfarin. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS [Enter highlight text here] 7.1 Anticoagulants and CYP 2C9 Substrates Elevated coagulation times have been reported in patients taking fluorouracil concomitantly with warfarin.

=== GLYBURIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Glyburide tablets, USP is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Glyburide tablets USP are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Glyburide and metformin hydrochloride tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Glyburide and metformin hydrochloride tablets are a combination of glyburide, a sulfonylurea, and metformin hydrochloride (HCl), a biguanide, indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. (1) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Glyburide tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Patients should be retitrated when transferred from glyburide tablets or other oral hypoglycemic agents. There is no fixed dosage regimen for the management of diabetes mellitus with glyburide tablets. In addition to the usual monitoring of urinary glucose, the patient's blood glucose must also be monitored periodically to determine the minimum effective dose for the patient; to detect primary failure, ie , inadequate lowering of blood glucose at the maximum recommended dose of medication; and to detect secondary failure, ie , loss of adequate blood glucose lowering response after an initial period of effectiveness. Glycosylated hemoglobin levels may also be of value in monitoring the patient's response to therapy. Short-term administration of glyburide tablets may be sufficient during periods of transient loss of control in patients usually controlled well on diet. Usual Starting Dose The usual starting dose of glyburide tablets is 2.5 to 5 mg daily, administered with breakfast or the first main meal. Those patients who may be more sensitive to hypoglycemic drugs should be started at 1.25 mg daily. (See PRECAUTIONS section for patients at increased risk.) Failure to follow an appropriate dosage regimen may precipitate hypoglycemia. Patients who do not adhere to their prescribed dietary and drug regimen are more prone to exhibit unsatisfactory response to therapy. Transfer From Other Hypoglycemic Therapy Patients Receiving Other Oral Antidiabetic Therapy: Transfer of patients from other oral antidiabetic regimens to glyburide tablets should be done conservatively and the initial daily dose should be 2.5 to 5 mg. When transferring patients from oral hypoglycemic agents other than chlorpropamide to glyburide tablets, no transition period and no initial or priming dose are necessary. When transferring patients from chlorpropamide, particular care should be exercised during the first two weeks because the prolonged retention of chlorpropamide in the body and subsequent overlapping drug effects may provoke hypoglycemia. Patients Receiving Insulin: Some Type II diabetic patients being treated with insulin may respond satisfactorily to glyburide tablets. If the insulin dose is less than 20 units daily, substitution of glyburide tablets 2.5 to 5 mg as a single daily dose may be tried. If the insulin dose is between 20 and 40 units daily, the patient may be placed directly on glyburide tablets 5 mg daily as a single dose. If the insulin dose is more than 40 units daily, a transition period is required for conversion to glyburide tablets. In these patients, insulin dosage is decreased by 50% and glyburide tablets 5 mg daily is started. Please refer to Titration to Maintenance Dose for further explanation. Patients Receiving Colesevelam: When colesevelam is coadministered with glyburide, maximum plasma concentration and total exposure to glyburide is reduced. Therefore, glyburide tablets should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Titration to Maintenance Dose The usual maintenance dose is in the range of 1.25 to 20 mg daily, which may be given as a single dose or in divided doses (See Dosage Interval section). Dosage increases should be made in increments of no more than 2.5 mg at weekly intervals based upon the patient's blood glucose response. No exact dosage relationship exists between glyburide tablets and the other oral hypoglycemic agents. Although patients may be transferred from the maximum dose of other sulfonylureas, the maximum starting dose of 5 mg of glyburide tablets should be observed. A maintenance dose of 5 mg of glyburide tablets provides approximately the same degree of blood glucose control as 250 to 375 mg chlorpropamide, 250 to 375 mg tolazamide, 500 to 750 mg acetohexamide, or 1000 to 1500 mg tolbutamide. When transferring patients receiving more than 40 units of insulin daily, they may be started on a daily dose of glyburide tablets 5 mg concomitantly with a 50% reduction in insulin dose. Progressive withdrawal of insulin and increase of glyburide tablets in increments of 1.25 to 2.5 mg every 2 to 10 days is then carried out. During this conversion period when both insulin and glyburide tablets are being used, hypoglycemia may occur. During insulin withdrawal, patients should test their urine for glucose and acetone at least three times daily and report results to their physician. The appearance of persistent acetonuria with glycosuria indicates that the patient is a Type I diabetic who requires insulin therapy. Concomitant Glyburide and Metformin Therapy Glyburide tablets should be added gradually to the dosing regimen of patients who have not responded to the maximum dose of metformin monotherapy after four weeks (see Usual Starting Dose and Titration to Maintenance Dose ). Refer to metformin package insert. With concomitant glyburide and metformin therapy, the desired control of blood glucose may be obtained by adjusting the dose of each drug. However, attempts should be made to identify the optimal dose of each drug needed to achieve this goal. With concomitant glyburide and metformin therapy, the risk of hypoglycemia associated with sulfonylurea therapy continues and may be increased. Appropriate precautions should be taken (see PRECAUTIONS section). Maximum Dose Daily doses of more than 20 mg are not recommended. Dosage Interval Once-a-day therapy is usually satisfactory. Some patients, particularly those receiving more than 10 mg daily, may have a more satisfactory response with twice-a-day dosage. Specific Patient Populations Glyburide tablets is not recommended for use in pregnancy or for use in pediatric patients. In elderly patients, debilitated or malnourished patients, and patients with impaired renal or hepatic function, the initial and maintenance dosing should be conservative to avoid hypoglycemic reactions. (See PRECAUTIONS section.) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Patients should be retitrated when transferred from glyburide (micronized) tablets or other oral hypoglycemic agents (see PRECAUTIONS ). In addition to the usual monitoring of urinary glucose, the patient’s blood glucose must also be monitored periodically to determine the minimum effective dose for the patient; to detect primary failure, i.e. , inadequate lowering of blood glucose at the maximum recommended dose of medication; and to detect secondary failure, i.e. , loss of adequate blood glucose lowering response after an initial period of effectiveness. Glycosylated hemoglobin levels may also be of value in monitoring the patient’s response to therapy. Transfer From Other Hypoglycemic Therapy Patients Receiving Other Oral Antidiabetic Therapy Transfer of patients from other oral antidiabetic regimens to glyburide tablets should be done conservatively and the initial daily dose should be 2.5 to 5 mg. Patients Receiving Insulin Some Type II diabetic patients being treated with insulin may respond satisfactorily to glyburide tablets. Patients Receiving Colesevelam When colesevelam is coadministered with glyburide, maximum plasma concentration and total exposure to glyburide is reduced. Dosage increases should be made in increments of no more than 2.5 mg at weekly intervals based upon the patient’s blood glucose response. Specific Patient Populations Glyburide is not recommended for use in pregnancy or for use in pediatric patients. In elderly patients, debilitated or malnourished patients, and patients with impaired renal or hepatic function, the initial and maintenance dosing should be conservative to avoid hypoglycemic reactions (see PRECAUTIONS section). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult Dosage: Give glyburide and metformin hydrochloride tablets in divided doses, twice daily, with meals. (2.1) For patients not treated with either glyburide (or another sulfonylurea) or metformin HCl, initiate treatment with another formulation with a dose of 1.25 mg glyburide and 250 mg metformin HCl orally, once or twice daily with meals. (2.1) For patients not adequately controlled on either glyburide (or another sulfonylurea) or metformin HCl alone, the recommended starting dose is 2.5 mg/500 mg or 5 mg/500 mg orally twice daily with meals. (2.1) For patients previously treated with a combination therapy of glyburide (or another sulfonylurea) and metformin HCl, the starting dose should not exceed the daily dose of glyburide (or equivalent dose of another sulfonylurea) and metformin HCl already being taken. (2.1) Increase the dose gradually on the basis of glycemic control and tolerability, up to a maximum to a maximum dose of 20 mg glyburide/2,000 mg metformin HCl daily. (2.1) Renal Impairment: Prior to initiation, assess renal function with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) (2.4) Do not use in patients with eGFR below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 (2.4) Initiation is not recommended in patients with eGFR between 30 to 45 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 (2.4) Assess risk/benefit if eGFR falls below 45 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 (2.4) Discontinue if eGFR falls below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 (2.4) Discontinuation for Iodinated Contrast Imaging Procedures: Glyburide and metformin hydrochloride tablets may need to be discontinued at time of, or prior to, iodinated contrast imaging procedures (2.5) 2.1 Dosage Give glyburide and metformin hydrochloride tablets in divided doses, twice daily, with meals. For patients not treated with either glyburide (or another sulfonylurea) or metformin hydrochloride (HCl), initiate treatment with another formulation of glyburide and metformin HCl at a starting dose of 1.25 mg glyburide and 250 mg metformin HCl orally, once or twice daily with meals. For patients not adequately controlled on either glyburide (or another sulfonylurea) or metformin HCl alone, the recommended starting dose of glyburide and metformin hydrochloride tablets is 2.5 mg/500 mg or 5 mg/500 mg orally twice daily with meals. For patients previously treated with a combination therapy of glyburide (or another sulfonylurea) and metformin HCl, the starting dose of glyburide and metformin hydrochloride tablets should not exceed the daily dose of glyburide (or equivalent dose of another sulfonylurea) and metformin HCl already being taken. Increase the dose gradually on the basis of glycemic control and tolerability, up to a maximum to a maximum dose of 20 mg glyburide/2,000 mg metformin HCl daily. 2.2 Patients Receiving Colesevelam Administer glyburide and metformin hydrochloride tablets at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam for patients taking both drugs concomitantly [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. 2.3 Recommendations for Use in Renal Impairment Assess renal function prior to initiation of glyburide and metformin hydrochloride tablets and periodically thereafter. Glyburide and metformin hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 . Initiation of glyburide and metformin hydrochloride tablets in patients with an eGFR between 30 to 45 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 is not recommended. In patients taking glyburide and metformin hydrochloride tablets whose eGFR later falls below 45 mL/min/1.73 m 2 , assess the benefit risk of continuing therapy. Discontinue glyburide and metformin hydrochloride tablets if the patient's eGFR later falls below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 2.4 Discontinuation for Iodinated Contrast Imaging Procedures Discontinue glyburide and metformin hydrochloride tablets at the time of, or prior to, an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ; in patients with a history of liver disease, alcoholism or heart failure; or in patients who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Re-evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure; restart glyburide and metformin hydrochloride tablets if renal function is stable. (2.1) For patients not treated with either glyburide (or another sulfonylurea) or metformin HCl, initiate treatment with another formulation with a dose of 1.25 mg glyburide and 250mg metformin HCl orally, once or twice daily with meals. (2.1) Increase the dose gradually on the basis of glycemic control and tolerability, up to a maximum to a maximum dose of 20 mg glyburide/2000 mg metformin HCl daily. For patients not treated with either glyburide (or another sulfonylurea) or metformin hydrochloride (HCl), initiate treatment with another formulation of glyburide and metformin HCl at a starting dose of 1.25 mg glyburide and 250mg metformin HCl orally, once or twice daily with meals. Increase the dose gradually on the basis of glycemic control and tolerability, up to a maximum to a maximum dose of 20 mg glyburide/2000 mg metformin HCl daily. Discontinue glyburide and metformin hydrochloride tablets if the patient’s eGFR later falls below 30 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION There is no fixed dosage regimen for the management of diabetes mellitus with glyburide tablets. In addition to the usual monitoring of urinary glucose, the patient's blood glucose must also be monitored periodically to determine the minimum effective dose for the patient; to detect primary failure, i.e., inadequate lowering of blood glucose at the maximum recommended dose of medication; and to detect secondary failure, i.e., loss of adequate blood glucose lowering response after an initial period of effectiveness. A maintenance dose of 5 mg of glyburide tablets provides approximately the same degree of blood glucose control as 250 to 375 mg chlorpropamide, 250 to 375 mg tolazamide, 500 to 750 mg acetohexamide, or 1,000 to 1,500 mg tolbutamide. Specific Patient Populations Glyburide tablets are not recommended for use in pregnancy or for use in pediatric patients.
Warnings: SPECIAL WARNING ON INCREASED RISK OF CARDIOVASCULAR MORTALITY The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups. UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2½ times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glyburide and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glyburide tablets and of alternative modes of therapy.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Glyburide tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Known hypersensitivity or allergy to the drug. Diabetic ketoacidosis, with or without coma. This condition should be treated with insulin. Type I diabetes mellitus. Concomitant administration of bosentan. SPECIAL WARNING ON INCREASED RISK OF CARDIOVASCULAR MORTALITY The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups. UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2½ times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glyburide tablets and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Glyburide and metformin hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Severe renal impairment (eGFR below 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Hypersensitivity to metformin or glyburide. Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis, including diabetic ketoacidosis, with or without coma. Concomitant administration of bosentan [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. Severe renal impairment (eGFR below 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) (4, 5.1) Hypersensitivity to metformin or glyburide. (4) Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis, including diabetic ketoacidosis, with or without coma. (4) Concomitant administration of bosentan. (4, 7) CONTRAINDICATIONS Glyburide tablets are contraindicated in patients with: 1. Known hypersensitivity or allergy to the drug. 2. 3. 4. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure . Severe renal impairment (eGFR below 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) (4 , 5.1) Hypersensitivity to metformin or glyburide. (4 , 7)
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions The hypoglycemic action of sulfonylureas may be potentiated by certain drugs including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents and other drugs that are highly protein bound, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, probenecid, coumarins, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, and beta adrenergic blocking agents. When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving glyburide, the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving glyburide, the patient should be observed closely for loss of control. An increased risk of liver enzyme elevations was observed in patients receiving glyburide concomitantly with bosentan. Therefore concomitant administration of glyburide tablets and bosentan is contraindicated. Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of control. These drugs include the thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid products, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics, calcium channel blocking drugs, and isoniazid. When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving glyburide, the patient should be closely observed for loss of control. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving glyburide, the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia. A possible interaction between glyburide and ciprofloxacin, a fluoroquinolone antibiotic, has been reported, resulting in a potentiation of the hypoglycemic action of glyburide. The mechanism for this interaction is not known. A potential interaction between oral miconazole and oral hypoglycemic agents leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with the intravenous, topical or vaginal preparations of miconazole is not known. Metformin In a single-dose interaction study in NIDDM subjects, decreases in glyburide AUC and C max were observed, but were highly variable. The single-dose nature of this study and the lack of correlation between glyburide blood levels and pharmacodynamic effects, makes the clinical significance of this interaction uncertain. Coadministration of glyburide and metformin did not result in any changes in either metformin pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics. Colesevelam Concomitant administration of colesevelam and glyburide resulted in reductions in glyburide AUC and C max of 32% and 47%, respectively. The reductions in glyburide AUC and C max were 20% and 15%, respectively when administered 1 hour before, and not significantly changed (-7% and 4%, respectively) when administered 4 hours before colesevelam. Topiramate A drug-drug interaction study conducted in patients with type 2 diabetes evaluated the steady-state pharmacokinetics of glyburide (5 mg/day) alone and concomitantly with topiramate (150 mg/day). There was a 22% decrease in C max and a 25% reduction in AUC 24 for glyburide during topiramate administration. Systemic exposure (AUC) of the active metabolites, 4-trans-hydroxy-glyburide (M1) and 3-cis-hydroxyglyburide (M2), was also reduced by 13% and 15%, and C max was reduced by 18% and 25%, respectively. The steady-state pharmacokinetics of topiramate were unaffected by concomitant administration of glyburide. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 3 presents clinically significant drug interactions with glyburide and metformin hydrochloride. Table 3: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. Concomitant use of these drugs with glyburide and metformin hydrochloride may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Intervention: Consider more frequent monitoring of these patients. Examples: Topiramate, zonisamide, acetazolamide and dichlorphenamide. Drugs that Reduce Metformin Clearance Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2] / multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE] inhibitors) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use with glyburide and metformin hydrochloride. Examples: Ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine. Alcohol Clinical Impact: Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism. Intervention: Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving glyburide and metformin hydrochloride. Drugs that potentiate the hypoglycemic action of glyburide and metformin hydrochloride Clinical Impact: Certain drugs may potentiate the hypoglycemic action of sulfonylureas, one of the components of glyburide and metformin hydrochloride. Intervention: Closely observe patient for hypoglycemia during co-administration and for loss of glycemic control when withdrawing these agents. Examples: Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents and other highly protein-boind drugs, salicylcates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, probenecid, coumarins, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, beta-adrenergic blocking agents; potentially with ciprofloxacin, micronazole. Bosentan Clinical Impact: Increased risk of liver enzyme elevations was observed. Intervention: Concomitant administration is contraindicated. Colesevalam Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration may led to reduced glyburide absorption (AUC and C max : -32% and -47%, respectively). Intervention: Glyburide and metformin hydrochloride should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Drugs Reducing Glycemic Control Clinical Impact: Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. Intervention: When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving glyburide and metformin hydrochloride observe the patient closely for loss of blood glucose control. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving glyburide and metformin hydrochloride, observe the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Examples: Thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid products, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics, calcium channel blockers, and isoniazid. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may increase risk of lactic acidosis. Consider more frequent monitoring. (7) Drugs that reduce metformin clearance (such as ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine) may increase the accumulation of metformin. Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use. (7) Alcohol can potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism. Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake. (7) The hypoglycemic action of glyburide and metformin hydrochloride may be potentiated by certain drugs. (7) Concomitant administration of colesevalam may led to reduced glyburide absorption. (7) Drug Interactions The hypoglycemic action of sulfonylureas may be potentiated by certain drugs including nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents and other drugs that are highly protein bound, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, probenecid, coumarins, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, and beta adrenergic blocking agents. When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving glyburide tablets, the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving glyburide tablets, the patient should be observed closely for loss of control. When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving glyburide tablets, the patient should be closely observed for loss of control. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving glyburide tablets, the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia. Metformin: In a single-dose interaction study in NIDDM subjects, decreases in glyburide AUC and C max were observed, but were highly variable. Colesevelam: Concomitant administration of colesevelam and glyburide resulted in reductions in glyburide AUC and C max of 32% and 47%, respectively. Topiramate: A drug-drug interaction study conducted in patients with type 2 diabetes evaluated the steady-state pharmacokinetics of glyburide (5 mg/day) alone and concomitantly with topiramate (150 mg/day). Systemic exposure (AUC) of the active metabolites, 4-trans-hydroxy-glyburide (M1) and 3-cis hydroxyglyburide (M2), was also reduced by 13% and 15%, and C max was reduced by 18% and 25%, respectively. Colesevalam Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration may led to reduced glyburide absorption (AUC and Cmax: -32% and -47%, respectively). When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving glyburide tablets the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving glyburide tablets the patient should be observed closely for loss of control. Systemic exposure (AUC) of the active metabolites, 4-trans-hydroxy-glyburide (M1) and 3-cishydroxyglyburide (M2), was also reduced by 13% and 15%, and C max was reduced by 18% and 25%, respectively.

=== NITROFURANTOIN (MONOHYDRATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals) is indicated only for the treatment of acute uncomplicated urinary tract infections (acute cystitis) caused by susceptible strains of Escherichia coli or Staphylococcus saprophyticus. Nitrofurantoin is not indicated for the treatment of pyelonephritis or perinephric abscesses. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals) and other antibacterial drugs, nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals) should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. Nitrofurantoins lack the broader tissue distribution of other therapeutic agents approved for urinary tract infections. Consequently, many patients who are treated with nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals) are predisposed to persistence or reappearance of bacteriuria (see CLINICAL STUDIES ). Urine specimens for culture and susceptibility testing should be obtained before and after completion of therapy. If persistence or reappearance of bacteriuria occurs after treatment with nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals), other therapeutic agents with broader tissue distribution should be selected. In considering the use of nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals), lower eradication rates should be balanced against the increased potential for systemic toxicity and for the development of antimicrobial resistance when agents with broader tissue distribution are utilized. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals) are indicated only for the treatment of acute uncomplicated urinary tract infections (acute cystitis) caused by susceptible strains of Escherichia coli or Staphylococcus saprophyticus. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of nitrofurantoin capsule (monohydrate/macrocrystals) and other antibacterial drugs, nitrofurantoin capsule (monohydrate/macrocrystals) should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Consequently, many patients who are treated with nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals) are predisposed to persistence or reappearance of bacteriuria. (See CLINICAL STUDIES. ) Urine specimens for culture and susceptibility testing should be obtained before and after completion of therapy. If persistence or reappearance of bacteriuria occurs after treatment with nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals) other therapeutic agents with broader tissue distribution should be selected. In considering the use of nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals), lower eradication rates should be balanced against the increased potential for systemic toxicity and for the development of antimicrobial resistance when agents with broader tissue distribution are utilized. INDICATIONS AND USAGE: Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (monohydrate/macrocrystals) are indicated only for the treatment of acute uncomplicated urinary tract infections (acute cystitis) caused by susceptible strains of Escherichia coli or Staphylococcus saprophyticus . To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (monohydrate/macrocrystals) and other antibacterial drugs, Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (monohydrate/macrocrystals) should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Consequently, many patients who are treated with Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (monohydrate/macrocrystals) are predisposed to persistence or reappearance of bacteriuria. (see CLINICAL STUDIES ). If persistence or reappearance of bacteriuria occurs after treatment with Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (monohydrate/macrocrystals), other therapeutic agents with broader tissue distribution should be selected. In considering the use of Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (monohydrate/macrocrystals), lower eradication rates should be balanced against the increased potential for systemic toxicity and for the development of antimicrobial resistance when agents with broader tissue distribution are utilized. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals) are indicated only for the treatment of acute uncomplicated urinary tract infections (acute cystitis) caused by susceptible strains of Escherichia coli or Staphylococcus saprophyticus . To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals) and other antibacterial drugs, nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals) should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. (See CLINICAL STUDIES .) Urine specimens for culture and susceptibility testing should be obtained before and after completion of therapy. If persistence or reappearance of bacteriuria occurs after treatment with nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals), other therapeutic agents with broader tissue distribution should be selected. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nitrofurantoin oral suspension is indicated in adults and pediatric patients 1 month of age and older for the treatment of urinary tract infections due to susceptible strains of Escherichia coli, Enterococcus species , Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella species and Enterobacter species. Limitations of Use Nitrofurantoin oral suspension is not indicated for the treatment of pyelonephritis or perinephric abscesses [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of nitrofurantoin oral suspension and other antibacterial drugs, nitrofurantoin oral suspension should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Nitrofurantoin oral suspension is a nitrofuran antibacterial indicated in adults and pediatric patients 1 month of age and older for the treatment of urinary tract infections caused by susceptible bacteria. (1) Limitations of Use Nitrofurantoin oral suspension is not indicated for the treatment of pyelonephritis or perinephric abscesses. (1) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of nitrofurantoin oral suspension and other antibacterial drugs nitrofurantoin oral suspension should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. ( 1 )
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals) should be taken with food. Adults and Pediatric Patients Over 12 Years One 100 mg capsule every 12 hours for seven days. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals), should be taken with food. Adults and Pediatric Patients Over 12 Years: One 100 mg capsule every 12 hours for Seven days. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (monohydrate/macrocrystals) should be taken with food. Adults and Pediatric Patients Over 12 Years : One 100 mg capsule every 12 hours for seven days. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult Patients: 50 mg to 100 mg four times a day - the lower dosage level is recommended for uncomplicated urinary tract infections. (2.2) Pediatric Patients: 5 mg/kg to 7 mg/kg of body weight per 24 hours, given in four divided doses (contraindicated under one month of age). (2.3) 2.1 Recommended Dosage and Administration in Adult Patients The recommended dosage is 50 mg to 100 mg of nitrofurantoin oral suspension four times a day. For long-term suppressive therapy in adults, a reduction of dosage to 50 mg to 100 mg at bedtime may be adequate. The benefits of long-term suppressive therapy should be balanced against the increased potential for systemic toxicity and for the development of antibacterial resistance [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.4 , 5.6 )]. Administer nitrofurantoin oral suspension with food to improve drug absorption [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] and, in some patients, tolerance. 2.2 Recommended Dosage and Administration in Pediatric Patients (1 month of age and older) The recommended dosage of nitrofurantoin oral suspension is 5 mg/kg to 7 mg/kg of body weight per 24 hours, given in four divided doses in pediatric patients aged 1 month and older. Table 1 lists individual dosage volumes for two different strengths of nitrofurantoin oral suspension (25 mg/5 mL) based on body weight for pediatric patients. Table 1: Nitrofurantoin Oral Suspension Pediatric Dosing Table for Pediatric Patients 1 month of Age and Older To measure the correct pediatric doses, it is important to administer nitrofurantoin oral suspension with an appropriate size oral dosing syringe with graduations that align with the volume prescribed in Table 1 above. Continue therapy for one week or for at least 3 days after sterility of the urine is obtained. Continued infection indicates the need for reevaluation. For long-term suppressive therapy in pediatric patients, doses as low as 1 mg/kg per 24 hours, given in a single dose or in two divided doses, may be adequate [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.4 , 5.6 )]. nitrofurantoin-table1
Warnings: WARNINGS Pulmonary Reactions ACUTE, SUBACUTE, OR CHRONIC PULMONARY REACTIONS HAVE BEEN OBSERVED IN PATIENTS TREATED WITH NITROFURANTOIN. IF THESE REACTIONS OCCUR, NITROFURANTOIN (MONOHYDRATE/MACROCRYSTALS) SHOULD BE DISCONTINUED AND APPROPRIATE MEASURES TAKEN. REPORTS HAVE CITED PULMONARY REACTIONS AS A CONTRIBUTING CAUSE OF DEATH. CHRONIC PULMONARY REACTIONS (DIFFUSE INTERSTITIAL PNEUMONITIS OR PULMONARY FIBROSIS, OR BOTH) CAN DEVELOP INSIDIOUSLY. THESE REACTIONS OCCUR RARELY AND GENERALLY IN PATIENTS RECEIVING THERAPY FOR SIX MONTHS OR LONGER. CLOSE MONITORING OF THE PULMONARY CONDITION OF PATIENTS RECEIVING LONG-TERM THERAPY IS WARRANTED AND REQUIRES THAT THE BENEFITS OF THERAPY BE WEIGHED AGAINST POTENTIAL RISKS (SEE RESPIRATORY REACTIONS). Hepatotoxicity Hepatic reactions, including hepatitis, cholestatic jaundice, chronic active hepatitis, and hepatic necrosis, occur rarely. Fatalities have been reported. The onset of chronic active hepatitis may be insidious, and patients should be monitored periodically for changes in biochemical tests that would indicate liver injury. If hepatitis occurs, the drug should be withdrawn immediately and appropriate measures should be taken. Neuropathy Peripheral neuropathy, which may become severe or irreversible, has occurred. Conditions such as renal impairment (creatinine clearance under 60 mL per minute or clinically significant elevated serum creatinine), anemia, diabetes mellitus, electrolyte imbalance, vitamin B deficiency, and debilitating disease may enhance the occurrence of peripheral neuropathy. Patients receiving long-term therapy should be monitored periodically for changes in renal function. Optic neuritis has been reported rarely in postmarketing experience with nitrofurantoin formulations. Hemolytic Anemia Cases of hemolytic anemia of the primaquine-sensitivity type have been induced by nitrofurantoin. Hemolysis appears to be linked to a glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency in the red blood cells of the affected patients. This deficiency is found in 10 percent of Blacks and a small percentage of ethnic groups of Mediterranean and Near-Eastern origin. Hemolysis is an indication for discontinuing nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals); hemolysis ceases when the drug is withdrawn. Clostridium difficile -Associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including nitrofurantoin, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C. difficile . C. difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD. Hypertoxin producing strains of C. difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality, as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use. Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents. If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C. difficile may need to be discontinued. Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibiotic treatment of C. difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. WARNINGS Pulmonary reactions: ACUTE, SUBACUTE, OR CHRONIC PULMONARY REACTIONS HAVE BEEN OBSERVED IN PATIENTS TREATED WITH NITROFURANTOIN. IF THESE REACTIONS OCCUR, NITROFURANTOIN SHOULD BE DISCONTINUED AND APPROPRIATE MEASURES TAKEN. CLOSE MONITORING OF THE PULMONARY CONDITION OF PATIENTS RECEIVING LONG-TERM THERAPY IS WARRANTED AND REQUIRES THAT THE BENEFITS OF THERAPY BE WEIGHED AGAINST POTENTIAL RISKS. (SEE RESPIRATORY REACTIONS.) Hepatotoxicity: Hepatic reactions, including hepatitis, cholestatic jaundice, chronic active hepatitis, and hepatic necrosis, occur rarely. Neuropathy: Peripheral neuropathy, which may become severe or irreversible, has occurred. Hemolytic anemia: Cases of hemolytic anemia of the primaquine-sensitivity type have been induced by nitrofurantoin. Hemolysis appears to be linked to a glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase deficiency in the red blood cells of the affected patients. Hemolysis is an indication for discontinuing nitrofurantoin; hemolysis ceases when the drug is withdrawn. Clostridium difficile- associated diarrhea: Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including nitrofurantoin and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. WARNINGS: Pulmonary reactions: ACUTE, SUBACUTE, OR CHRONIC PULMONARY REACTIONS HAVE BEEN OBSERVED IN PATIENTS TREATED WITH NITROFURANTOIN. IF THESE REACTIONS OCCUR, NITROFURANTOIN CAPSULES, USP (MONOHYDRATE/MACROCRYSTALS) SHOULD BE DISCONTINUED AND APPROPRIATE MEASURES TAKEN. Hepatotoxicity: Hepatic reactions, including hepatitis, cholestatic jaundice, chronic active hepatitis, and hepatic necrosis, occur rarely. Hemolysis is an indication for discontinuing Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (monohydrate/ macrocrystals); hemolysis ceases when the drug is withdrawn. Clostridium difficile -associated diarrhea: Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including nitrofurantoin, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. IF THESE REACTIONS OCCUR, NITROFURANTOIN CAPSULES (MONOHYDRATE/MACROCRYSTALS) SHOULD BE DISCONTINUED AND APPROPRIATE MEASURES TAKEN. Hemolysis is an indication for discontinuing nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals); hemolysis ceases when the drug is withdrawn.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Anuria, oliguria, or significant impairment of renal function (creatinine clearance under 60 mL per minute or clinically significant elevated serum creatinine) are contraindications. Treatment of this type of patient carries an increased risk of toxicity because of impaired excretion of the drug. Because of the possibility of hemolytic anemia due to immature erythrocyte enzyme systems (glutathione instability), the drug is contraindicated in pregnant patients at term (38 to 42 weeks gestation), during labor and delivery, or when the onset of labor is imminent. For the same reason, the drug is contraindicated in neonates under one month of age. Nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals) is contraindicated in patients with a previous history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with nitrofurantoin. Nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals) is also contraindicated in those patients with known hypersensitivity to nitrofurantoin. Nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals) are contraindicated in patients with a previous history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with nitrofurantoin. Nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals) are also contraindicated in those patients with known hypersensitivity to nitrofurantoin. CONTRAINDICATIONS: Anuria, oliguria, or significant impairment of renal function (creatinine clearance under 60 mL per minute or clinically significant elevated serum creatinine) are contraindications. Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (monohydrate/macrocrystals) is contraindicated in patients with a previous history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with nitrofurantoin. Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (monohydrate/macrocrystals) is also contraindicated in those patients with known hypersensitivity to nitrofurantoin. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Nitrofurantoin oral suspension is contraindicated in: • patients with known hypersensitivity to nitrofurantoin [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. • patients with a previous history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with nitrofurantoin [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. • patients who have anuria, oliguria, or significant impairment of renal function (creatinine clearance under 60 mL per minute or clinically significant elevated serum creatinine) due to an increased risk of toxicity resulting from impaired excretion of the drug [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. • pregnant patients at term (38 weeks to 42 weeks gestation), during labor and delivery, or when the onset of labor is imminent and in pediatric patients younger than 1 month of age because of the possibility of hemolytic anemia due to immature erythrocyte enzyme systems (glutathione instability) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 and 8.4 )]. • Known hypersensitivity to nitrofurantoin. ( 4 ) • History of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with nitrofurantoin. ( 4 ) • Patients who have anuria, oliguria, or significant impairment of renal function (creatinine clearance under 60 mL per minute or clinically significant elevated serum creatinine). ( 4 ) • Pregnant patients at term (38 weeks to 42 weeks gestation), during labor and delivery, or when the onset of labor is imminent. ( 4 ) • Pediatric Patients under one month of age. ( 4 )
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Antacids containing magnesium trisilicate, when administered concomitantly with nitrofurantoin, reduce both the rate and extent of absorption. The mechanism for this interaction probably is adsorption of nitrofurantoin onto the surface of magnesium trisilicate. Uricosuric drugs, such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone, can inhibit renal tubular secretion of nitrofurantoin. The resulting increase in nitrofurantoin serum levels may increase toxicity, and the decreased urinary levels could lessen its efficacy as a urinary tract antibacterial. Drug Interactions: Antacids containing magnesium trisilicate, when administered concomitantly with nitrofurantoin, reduce both the rate and extent of absorption. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antacids: Decreased absorption of nitrofurantoin. (7.1) Uricosuric drugs: Inhibit renal tubular secretion of nitrofurantoin. (7.2) 7.1 Antacids Antacids containing magnesium trisilicate, when administered concomitantly with nitrofurantoin, reduce both the rate and extent of absorption. If coadministration of nitrofurantoin oral suspension with antacids containing magnesium trisilicate cannot be avoided, monitor for lack of efficacy [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 Uricosuric Drugs Uricosuric drugs, such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone, can inhibit renal tubular secretion of nitrofurantoin. Therefore, monitor for nitrofurantoin adverse reactions when co-administering nitrofurantoin oral suspension with uricosuric drugs. 7.3 Drug Interference with Laboratory Tests The presence of nitrofurantoin can cause a false-positive reaction for glucose in the urine when using Benedict's or Fehling's copper reduction reaction to determine the amount of reducing substances like glucose in the urine. Use glucose tests based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions to detect glucose in the urine.

=== MACROCRYSTALS) ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals) is indicated only for the treatment of acute uncomplicated urinary tract infections (acute cystitis) caused by susceptible strains of Escherichia coli or Staphylococcus saprophyticus. Nitrofurantoin is not indicated for the treatment of pyelonephritis or perinephric abscesses. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals) and other antibacterial drugs, nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals) should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. Nitrofurantoins lack the broader tissue distribution of other therapeutic agents approved for urinary tract infections. Consequently, many patients who are treated with nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals) are predisposed to persistence or reappearance of bacteriuria (see CLINICAL STUDIES ). Urine specimens for culture and susceptibility testing should be obtained before and after completion of therapy. If persistence or reappearance of bacteriuria occurs after treatment with nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals), other therapeutic agents with broader tissue distribution should be selected. In considering the use of nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals), lower eradication rates should be balanced against the increased potential for systemic toxicity and for the development of antimicrobial resistance when agents with broader tissue distribution are utilized. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals) are indicated only for the treatment of acute uncomplicated urinary tract infections (acute cystitis) caused by susceptible strains of Escherichia coli or Staphylococcus saprophyticus. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of nitrofurantoin capsule (monohydrate/macrocrystals) and other antibacterial drugs, nitrofurantoin capsule (monohydrate/macrocrystals) should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Consequently, many patients who are treated with nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals) are predisposed to persistence or reappearance of bacteriuria. (See CLINICAL STUDIES. ) Urine specimens for culture and susceptibility testing should be obtained before and after completion of therapy. If persistence or reappearance of bacteriuria occurs after treatment with nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals) other therapeutic agents with broader tissue distribution should be selected. In considering the use of nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals), lower eradication rates should be balanced against the increased potential for systemic toxicity and for the development of antimicrobial resistance when agents with broader tissue distribution are utilized. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nitrofurantoin capsules (macrocrystals) are specifically indicated for the treatment of urinary tract infections when due to susceptible strains of Escherichia coli , enterococci, Staphylococcus aureus , and certain susceptible strains of Klebsiella and Enterobacter species. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of nitrofurantoin capsules (macrocrystals) and other antibacterial drugs, nitrofurantoin capsules (macrocrystals) should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Consequently, many patients who are treated with nitrofurantoin capsules (macrocrystals) are predisposed to persistence or reappearance of bacteriuria. If persistence or reappearance of bacteriuria occurs after treatment with nitrofurantoin capsules (macrocrystals), other therapeutic agents with broader tissue distribution should be selected. In considering the use of nitrofurantoin capsules (macrocrystals), lower eradication rates should be balanced against the increased potential for systemic toxicity and for the development of antimicrobial resistance when agents with broader tissue distribution are utilized. Nitrofurantoin capsules (macrocrystals) are specifically indicated for the treatment of urinary tract infections when due to susceptible strains of Escherichia coli, enterococci, Staphylococcus aureus, and certain susceptible strains of Klebsiella and Enterobacter species. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals) are indicated only for the treatment of acute uncomplicated urinary tract infections (acute cystitis) caused by susceptible strains of Escherichia coli or Staphylococcus saprophyticus . To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals) and other antibacterial drugs, nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals) should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. (See CLINICAL STUDIES .) Urine specimens for culture and susceptibility testing should be obtained before and after completion of therapy. If persistence or reappearance of bacteriuria occurs after treatment with nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals), other therapeutic agents with broader tissue distribution should be selected. INDICATIONS AND USAGE: Nitrofurantoin capsules (macrocrystals) are specifically indicated for the treatment of urinary tract infections when due to susceptible strains of Escherichia coli, enterococci, Staphylococcus aureus , and certain susceptible strains of Klebsiella and Enterobacter species.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals) should be taken with food. Adults and Pediatric Patients Over 12 Years One 100 mg capsule every 12 hours for seven days. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals), should be taken with food. Adults and Pediatric Patients Over 12 Years: One 100 mg capsule every 12 hours for Seven days. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Nitrofurantoin capsules, (macrocrystals) should be given with food to improve drug absorption and, in some patients, tolerance. Adults: 50 mg to 100 mg four times a day - the lower dosage level is recommended for uncomplicated urinary tract infections. Pediatric Patients: 5 mg/kg to 7 mg/kg of body weight per 24 hours, given in four divided doses (contraindicated under one month of age). Therapy should be continued for one week or for at least 3 days after sterility of the urine is obtained. Continued infection indicates the need for reevaluation. For long-term suppressive therapy in adults, a reduction of dosage to 50 mg to 100 mg at bedtime may be adequate. For long-term suppressive therapy in pediatric patients, doses as low as 1 mg/kg per 24 hours, given in a single dose or in two divided doses, may be adequate. SEE WARNINGS SECTION REGARDING RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH LONG-TERM THERAPY. Nitrofurantoin capsules, (macrocrystals) should be given with food to improve drug absorption and, in some patients, tolerance. Adults and Pediatric Patients Over 12 Years : One 100 mg capsule every 12 hours for seven days. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Nitrofurantoin capsules (macrocrystals) should be given with food to improve drug absorption and, in some patients, tolerance. Adults: 50 mg to 100 mg four times a day – the lower dosage level is recommended for uncomplicated urinary tract infections. Pediatric Patients : 5 mg/kg to 7 mg/kg of body weight per 24 hours, given in four divided doses (contraindicated under one month of age). SEE WARNINGS SECTION REGARDING RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH LONG-TERM THERAPY .
Warnings: WARNINGS Pulmonary Reactions ACUTE, SUBACUTE, OR CHRONIC PULMONARY REACTIONS HAVE BEEN OBSERVED IN PATIENTS TREATED WITH NITROFURANTOIN. IF THESE REACTIONS OCCUR, NITROFURANTOIN (MONOHYDRATE/MACROCRYSTALS) SHOULD BE DISCONTINUED AND APPROPRIATE MEASURES TAKEN. REPORTS HAVE CITED PULMONARY REACTIONS AS A CONTRIBUTING CAUSE OF DEATH. CHRONIC PULMONARY REACTIONS (DIFFUSE INTERSTITIAL PNEUMONITIS OR PULMONARY FIBROSIS, OR BOTH) CAN DEVELOP INSIDIOUSLY. THESE REACTIONS OCCUR RARELY AND GENERALLY IN PATIENTS RECEIVING THERAPY FOR SIX MONTHS OR LONGER. CLOSE MONITORING OF THE PULMONARY CONDITION OF PATIENTS RECEIVING LONG-TERM THERAPY IS WARRANTED AND REQUIRES THAT THE BENEFITS OF THERAPY BE WEIGHED AGAINST POTENTIAL RISKS (SEE RESPIRATORY REACTIONS). Hepatotoxicity Hepatic reactions, including hepatitis, cholestatic jaundice, chronic active hepatitis, and hepatic necrosis, occur rarely. Fatalities have been reported. The onset of chronic active hepatitis may be insidious, and patients should be monitored periodically for changes in biochemical tests that would indicate liver injury. If hepatitis occurs, the drug should be withdrawn immediately and appropriate measures should be taken. Neuropathy Peripheral neuropathy, which may become severe or irreversible, has occurred. Conditions such as renal impairment (creatinine clearance under 60 mL per minute or clinically significant elevated serum creatinine), anemia, diabetes mellitus, electrolyte imbalance, vitamin B deficiency, and debilitating disease may enhance the occurrence of peripheral neuropathy. Patients receiving long-term therapy should be monitored periodically for changes in renal function. Optic neuritis has been reported rarely in postmarketing experience with nitrofurantoin formulations. Hemolytic Anemia Cases of hemolytic anemia of the primaquine-sensitivity type have been induced by nitrofurantoin. Hemolysis appears to be linked to a glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency in the red blood cells of the affected patients. This deficiency is found in 10 percent of Blacks and a small percentage of ethnic groups of Mediterranean and Near-Eastern origin. Hemolysis is an indication for discontinuing nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals); hemolysis ceases when the drug is withdrawn. Clostridium difficile -Associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including nitrofurantoin, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C. difficile . C. difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD. Hypertoxin producing strains of C. difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality, as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use. Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents. If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C. difficile may need to be discontinued. Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibiotic treatment of C. difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. WARNINGS Pulmonary reactions: ACUTE, SUBACUTE, OR CHRONIC PULMONARY REACTIONS HAVE BEEN OBSERVED IN PATIENTS TREATED WITH NITROFURANTOIN. IF THESE REACTIONS OCCUR, NITROFURANTOIN SHOULD BE DISCONTINUED AND APPROPRIATE MEASURES TAKEN. CLOSE MONITORING OF THE PULMONARY CONDITION OF PATIENTS RECEIVING LONG-TERM THERAPY IS WARRANTED AND REQUIRES THAT THE BENEFITS OF THERAPY BE WEIGHED AGAINST POTENTIAL RISKS. (SEE RESPIRATORY REACTIONS.) Hepatotoxicity: Hepatic reactions, including hepatitis, cholestatic jaundice, chronic active hepatitis, and hepatic necrosis, occur rarely. Neuropathy: Peripheral neuropathy, which may become severe or irreversible, has occurred. Hemolytic anemia: Cases of hemolytic anemia of the primaquine-sensitivity type have been induced by nitrofurantoin. Hemolysis appears to be linked to a glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase deficiency in the red blood cells of the affected patients. Hemolysis is an indication for discontinuing nitrofurantoin; hemolysis ceases when the drug is withdrawn. Clostridium difficile- associated diarrhea: Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including nitrofurantoin and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. IF THESE REACTIONS OCCUR, NITROFURANTOIN CAPSULES (MACROCRYSTALS) SHOULD BE DISCONTINUED AND APPROPRIATE MEASURES TAKEN. Hepatotoxicity: Hepatic reactions, including hepatitis, cholestatic jaundice, chronic active hepatitis, and hepatic necrosis, occur rarely. Hemolysis is an indication for discontinuing nitrofurantoin capsules (macrocrystals); hemolysis ceases when the drug is withdrawn. Clostridium difficile -associated diarrhea: Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including nitrofurantoin, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Pulmonary reactions: ACUTE, SUBACUTE, OR CHRONIC PULMONARY REACTIONS HAVE BEEN OBSERVED IN PATIENTS TREATED WITH NITROFURANTOIN. Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea: Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including nitrofurantoin, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. difficile. difficile, and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. IF THESE REACTIONS OCCUR, NITROFURANTOIN CAPSULES (MONOHYDRATE/MACROCRYSTALS) SHOULD BE DISCONTINUED AND APPROPRIATE MEASURES TAKEN. Hemolysis is an indication for discontinuing nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals); hemolysis ceases when the drug is withdrawn. WARNINGS: Pulmonary reactions: ACUTE, SUBACUTE, OR CHRONIC PULMONARY REACTIONS HAVE BEEN OBSERVED IN PATIENTS TREATED WITH NITROFURANTOIN. IF THESE REACTIONS OCCUR, NITROFURANTOIN (MACROCRYSTALS) SHOULD BE DISCONTINUED AND APPROPRIATE MEASURES TAKEN. CLOSE MONITORING OF THE PULMONARY CONDITION OF PATIENTS RECEIVING LONG-TERM THERAPY IS WARRANTED AND REQUIRES THAT THE BENEFITS OF THERAPY BE WEIGHED AGAINST POTENTIAL RISKS (SEE RESPIRATORY REACTIONS ). Hemolysis is an indication for discontinuing nitrofurantoin (macrocrystals); hemolysis ceases when the drug is withdrawn.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Anuria, oliguria, or significant impairment of renal function (creatinine clearance under 60 mL per minute or clinically significant elevated serum creatinine) are contraindications. Treatment of this type of patient carries an increased risk of toxicity because of impaired excretion of the drug. Because of the possibility of hemolytic anemia due to immature erythrocyte enzyme systems (glutathione instability), the drug is contraindicated in pregnant patients at term (38 to 42 weeks gestation), during labor and delivery, or when the onset of labor is imminent. For the same reason, the drug is contraindicated in neonates under one month of age. Nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals) is contraindicated in patients with a previous history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with nitrofurantoin. Nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals) is also contraindicated in those patients with known hypersensitivity to nitrofurantoin. Nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals) are contraindicated in patients with a previous history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with nitrofurantoin. Nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals) are also contraindicated in those patients with known hypersensitivity to nitrofurantoin. Because of the possibility of hemolytic anemia due to immature erythrocyte enzyme systems (glutathione instability), the drug is contraindicated in pregnant patients at term (38 to 42 weeks' gestation), during labor and delivery, or when the onset of labor is imminent. Nitrofurantoin capsules (macrocrystals) are contraindicated in patients with a previous history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with nitrofurantoin. Nitrofurantoin capsules (macrocrystals) are also contraindicated in those patients with known hypersensitivity to nitrofurantoin. Anuria, oliguria, or significant impairment of renal function (creatinine clearance under 60 mL per minute or clinically significant elevated serum creatinine) are contraindications. CONTRAINDICATIONS: Anuria, oliguria, or significant impairment of renal function (creatinine clearance under 60 mL per minute or clinically significant elevated serum creatinine) are contraindications. Because of the possibility of hemolytic anemia due to immature erythrocyte enzyme systems (glutathione instability), the drug is contraindicated in pregnant patients at term (38 to 42 weeks’ gestation), during labor and delivery, or when the onset of labor is imminent.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Antacids containing magnesium trisilicate, when administered concomitantly with nitrofurantoin, reduce both the rate and extent of absorption. The mechanism for this interaction probably is adsorption of nitrofurantoin onto the surface of magnesium trisilicate. Uricosuric drugs, such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone, can inhibit renal tubular secretion of nitrofurantoin. The resulting increase in nitrofurantoin serum levels may increase toxicity, and the decreased urinary levels could lessen its efficacy as a urinary tract antibacterial. Drug Interactions: Antacids containing magnesium trisilicate, when administered concomitantly with nitrofurantoin, reduce both the rate and extent of absorption.

=== RAMELTEON ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ramelteon tablets are indicated for the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulty with sleep onset. The clinical trials performed in support of efficacy were up to six months in duration. The final formal assessments of sleep latency were performed after two days of treatment during the crossover study (elderly only), at five weeks in the six week studies (adults and elderly), and at the end of the six month study (adults and elderly) [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . Ramelteon tablets are indicated for the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulty with sleep onset. ( 1 ) 1. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ramelteon tablets are indicated for the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulty with sleep onset. The final formal assessments of sleep latency were performed after two days of treatment during the crossover study (elderly only), at five weeks in the six week studies (adults and elderly), and at the end of the six month study (adults and elderly) [see Clinical Studies (14) ]. (1) The final formal assessments of sleep latency were performed after two days of treatment during the crossover study (elderly only), at five weeks in the six week studies (adults and elderly), and at the end of the six month study (adults and elderly) [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . The final formal assessments of sleep latency were performed after two days of treatment during the crossover study (elderly only), at five weeks in the six month studies (adults and elderly), and at the end of the six month study (adults and elderly) [see Clinical Studies (14) ] .
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult dose: 8 mg taken within 30 minutes of going to bed. ( 2.1 ) Should not be taken with or immediately after a high-fat meal. ( 2.1 ) Total daily dose should not exceed 8 mg. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Dosage in Adults The recommended dose of ramelteon tablets are 8 mg taken within 30 minutes of going to bed. It is recommended that ramelteon tablets not be taken with or immediately after a high-fat meal. The total ramelteon tablets dose should not exceed 8 mg per day. 2.2 Dosing in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Ramelteon tablets are not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment. Ramelteon tablets should be used with caution in patients with moderate hepatic impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) ] . 2.3 Administration with Other Medications Ramelteon tablets should not be used in combination with fluvoxamine. Ramelteon tablets should be used with caution in patients taking other CYP1A2 inhibiting drugs [see Drug Interactions (7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. 2. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult dose: 8 mg taken within 30 minutes of going to bed. (2.1) Should not be taken with or immediately after a high-fat meal. (2.1) Total daily dose should not exceed 8 mg. (2.1) 2.1 Dosage in Adults The recommended dose of ramelteon tablets is 8 mg taken within 30 minutes of going to bed. Ramelteon tablets should be used with caution in patients with moderate hepatic impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) ]. 2.3 Administration with Other Medications Ramelteon should not be used in combination with fluvoxamine. Ramelteon should be used with caution in patients taking other CYP1A2 inhibiting drugs [see Drug Interactions (7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Dosage in Adults The recommended dose of ramelteon tablets is 8 mg taken within 30 minutes of going to bed. Ramelteon tablets should be used with caution in patients with moderate hepatic impairment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.4 )] . Ramelteon should be used with caution in patients taking other CYP1A2 inhibiting drugs [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )]. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Dosage in Adults The recommended dose of Ramelteon tablet is 8 mg taken within 30 minutes of going to bed. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Adult dose: 8 mg taken within 30 minutes of going to bed. ( 2.1 ) • Should not be taken with or immediately after a high-fat meal. ( 2.1 ) • Total daily dose should not exceed 8 mg. Ramelteon Tablets should be used with caution in patients with moderate hepatic impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) ]. Ramelteon Tablets should be used with caution in patients taking other CYP1A2 inhibiting drugs [see Drug Interactions (7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] . 2.1 Dosage in Adults The recommended dose of Ramelteon Tablets is 8 mg taken within 30 minutes of going to bed.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients who develop angioedema after treatment with ramelteon tablets should not be rechallenged with the drug. Patients should not take ramelteon tablets in conjunction with fluvoxamine [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . History of angioedema while taking ramelteon tablets. ( 4 ) Fluvoxamine (strong CYP1A2 inhibitor): Increases AUC for ramelteon and should not be used in combination. ( 7.1 ) 4. CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients who develop angioedema after treatment with ramelteon should not be rechallenged with the drug. Patients should not take ramelteon in conjunction with fluvoxamine [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. History of angioedema while taking ramelteon. (4) Fluvoxamine (strong CYP1A2 inhibitor): Increases AUC for ramelteon and should not be used in combination. (7.1) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients who develop angioedema after treatment with ramelteon should not be rechallenged with the drug. Patients should not take ramelteon in conjunction with fluvoxamine [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . Patients should not take Ramelteon Tablets in conjunction with fluvoxamine [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. • History of angioedema while taking Ramelteon Tablets. ( 4 ) • Fluvoxamine (strong CYP1A2 inhibitor): Increases AUC for ramelteon and should not be used in combination.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Rifampin (strong CYP enzyme inducer): Decreases exposure to and effects of ramelteon. ( 7.1 ) Ketoconazole (strong CYP3A4 inhibitor): Increases AUC for ramelteon; administer with caution. ( 7.1 ) Fluconazole (strong CYP2C9 inhibitor): Increases systemic exposure of ramelteon; administer with caution. ( 7.1 ) Donepezil: Increases systemic exposure of ramelteon; patients should be closely monitored when ramelteon is coadministered with donepezil. ( 7.1 ) Doxepin: Increases systemic exposure of ramelteon; patients should be closely monitored when ramelteon is coadministered with doxepin. ( 7.1 ) Alcohol: Causes additive psychomotor impairment; should not be used in combination. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Ramelteon Fluvoxamine (strong CYP1A2 inhibitor) AUC 0-inf for ramelteon increased approximately 190-fold, and the C max increased approximately 70- fold upon coadministration of fluvoxamine and ramelteon, compared to ramelteon administered alone. Ramelteon should not be used in combination with fluvoxamine [see Contraindications (4), Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] . Other less strong CYP1A2 inhibitors have not been adequately studied. Ramelteon should be administered with caution to patients taking less strong CYP1A2 inhibitors. Rifampin (strong CYP enzyme inducer) Administration of multiple doses of rifampin resulted in a mean decrease of approximately 80% in total exposure to ramelteon and metabolite M-II. Efficacy may be reduced when ramelteon is used in combination with strong CYP enzyme inducers such as rifampin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] . Ketoconazole (strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) The AUC 0-inf and C max of ramelteon increased by approximately 84% and 36% upon coadministration of ketoconazole with ramelteon. Ramelteon should be administered with caution in subjects taking strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] . Fluconazole (strong CYP2C9 inhibitor) The AUC 0-inf and C max of ramelteon was increased by approximately 150% when ramelteon was coadministered with fluconazole. Ramelteon should be administered with caution in subjects taking strong CYP2C9 inhibitors such as fluconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] . Donepezil The AUC 0-inf and C max of ramelteon increased by approximately 100% and 87%, respectively upon coadministration of donepezil with ramelteon. Patients should be closely monitored when ramelteon is coadministered with donepezil [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] . Doxepin The AUC 0-inf and C max of ramelteon increased by approximately 66% and 69%, respectively, upon coadministration of doxepin with ramelteon. Patients should be closely monitored when ramelteon is coadministered with doxepin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] . 7.2 Effect of Alcohol on Ramelteon Alcohol by itself impairs performance and can cause sleepiness. Since the intended effect of ramelteon is to promote sleep, patients should be cautioned not to consume alcohol when using ramelteon [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] . Use of the products in combination may have an additive effect. 7.3 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Ramelteon is not known to interfere with commonly used clinical laboratory tests. In addition, in vitro data indicate that ramelteon does not cause false-positive results for benzodiazepines, opiates, barbiturates, cocaine, cannabinoids, or amphetamines in two standard urine drug screening methods in vitro . 7. DRUG INTERACTIONS Rifampin (strong CYP enzyme inducer): Decreases exposure to and effects of ramelteon. (7.1) Ketoconazole (strong CYP3A4 inhibitor): Increases AUC for ramelteon; administer with caution. (7.1) Fluconazole (strong CYP2C9 inhibitor): Increases systemic exposure of ramelteon; administer with caution. (7.1) Donepezil: Increases systemic exposure of ramelteon; patients should be closely monitored when ramelteon is coadministered with donepezil. (7.1) Doxepin: Increases systemic exposure of ramelteon; patients should be closely monitored when ramelteon is coadministered with doxepin. (7.1) Alcohol: Causes additive psychomotor impairment; should not be used in combination. (7.2) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Ramelteon Fluvoxamine (strong CYP1A2 inhibitor) AUC 0-inf for ramelteon increased approximately 190-fold, and the C max increased approximately 70-fold upon coadministration of fluvoxamine and ramelteon, compared to ramelteon administered alone. Ramelteon should not be used in combination with fluvoxamine [see Contraindications (4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. Efficacy may be reduced when ramelteon is used in combination with strong CYP enzyme inducers such as rifampin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. Ramelteon should be administered with caution in subjects taking strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. Ramelteon should be administered with caution in subjects taking strong CYP2C9 inhibitors such as fluconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. Patients should be closely monitored when ramelteon is coadministered with donepezil [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. Patients should be closely monitored when ramelteon is coadministered with doxepin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. Since the intended effect of ramelteon is to promote sleep, patients should be cautioned not to consume alcohol when using ramelteon [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. ( 7.1 ) Donepezil: Increases systemic exposure of ramelteon; patients should be closely monitored when ramelteon is co administered with donepezil. ( 7.1 ) Doxepin: Increases systemic exposure of ramelteon; patients should be closely monitored when ramelteon is co administered with doxepin. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Ramelteon Fluvoxamine (strong CYP1A2 inhibitor) AUC 0-inf for ramelteon increased approximately 190-fold, and the C max increased approximately 70-fold upon coadministration of fluvoxamine and ramelteon, compared to ramelteon administered alone. Ramelteon should not be used in combination with fluvoxamine [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] . Efficacy may be reduced when ramelteon is used in combination with strong CYP enzyme inducers such as rifampin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] . Ramelteon should be administered with caution in subjects taking strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] . Ramelteon should be administered with caution in subjects taking strong CYP2C9 inhibitors such as fluconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] . Patients should be closely monitored when ramelteon is coadministered with donepezil [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] . Patients should be closely monitored when ramelteon is coadministered with doxepin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] . Since the intended effect of ramelteon is to promote sleep, patients should be cautioned not to consume alcohol when using ramelteon [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] . ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Ramelteon tablets Fluvoxamine (strong CYP1A2 inhibitor) AUC 0-inf for ramelteon increased approximately 190-fold, and the C max increased approximately 70-fold upon coadministration of fluvoxamine and Ramelteon Tablets, compared to Ramelteon Tablets administered alone. Ramelteon Tablets should not be used in combination with fluvoxamine [see Contraindications (4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] . Ramelteon Tablets should be administered with caution to patients taking less strong CYP1A2 inhibitors. Efficacy may be reduced when Ramelteon Tablets are used in combination with strong CYP enzyme inducers such as rifampin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] . Ketoconazole (strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) The AUC 0-inf and C max of ramelteon increased by approximately 84% and 36% upon coadministration of ketoconazole with Ramelteon Tablets. Ramelteon Tablets should be administered with caution in subjects taking strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] . Fluconazole (strong CYP2C9 inhibitor) The AUC 0-inf and C max of ramelteon was increased by approximately 150% when Ramelteon Tablets were coadministered with fluconazole. Ramelteon Tablets should be administered with caution in subjects taking strong CYP2C9 inhibitors such as fluconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] . Donepezil The AUC 0-inf and C max of ramelteon increased by approximately 100% and 87%, respectively upon coadministration of donepezil with Ramelteon Tablets. Patients should be closely monitored when Ramelteon Tablets are coadministered with donepezil [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] . Doxepin The AUC 0-inf and C max of ramelteon increased by approximately 66% and 69%, respectively, upon coadministration of doxepin with Ramelteon Tablets. Patients should be closely monitored when Ramelteon Tablets are coadministered with doxepin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] . 7.2 Effect of Alcohol on Ramelteon tablets Alcohol by itself impairs performance and can cause sleepiness. Since the intended effect of Ramelteon Tablets is to promote sleep, patients should be cautioned not to consume alcohol when using Ramelteon Tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] . 7.3 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Ramelteon Tablets are not known to interfere with commonly used clinical laboratory tests. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Rifampin (strong CYP enzyme inducer): Decreases exposure to and effects of ramelteon. ( 7.1 ) • Ketoconazole (strong CYP3A4 inhibitor): Increases AUC for ramelteon; administer with caution. ( 7.1 ) • Fluconazole (strong CYP2C9 inhibitor): Increases systemic exposure of ramelteon; administer with caution. ( 7.1 ) • Donepezil increases systemic exposure of ramelteon; patients should be closely monitored when ramelteon is coadministered with donepezil. ( 7.1 ) • Doxepin increases systemic exposure of ramelteon; patients should be closely monitored when ramelteon is coadministered with doxepin. ( 7.1 ) • Alcohol: Causes additive psychomotor impairment; should not be used in combination. Ramelteon Tablets should not be used in combination with fluvoxamine [see Contraindications (4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. Efficacy may be reduced when Ramelteon Tablets are used in combination with strong CYP enzyme inducers such as rifampin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. Ramelteon Tablets should be administered with caution in subjects taking strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. Ramelteon Tablets should be administered with caution in subjects taking strong CYP2C9 inhibitors such as fluconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. Patients should be closely monitored when Ramelteon Tablets are coadministered with donepezil [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. Patients should be closely monitored when Ramelteon Tablets are coadministered with doxepin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. In addition, in vitro data indicate that ramelteon does not cause false-positive results for benzodiazepines, opiates, barbiturates, cocaine, cannabinoids, or amphetamines in two standard urine drug screening methods in vitro. 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Ramelteon Tablets Fluvoxamine (strong CYP1A2 inhibitor) AUC 0-inf for ramelteon increased approximately 190-fold, and the C max increased approximately 70-fold upon coadministration of fluvoxamine and Ramelteon Tablets, compared to Ramelteon Tablets administered alone. Ramelteon should not be used in combination with fluvoxamine [see Contraindications (4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] . ( 7.1 ) Donepezil increases systemic exposure of ramelteon; patients should be closely monitored when ramelteon is coadministered with donepezil. ( 7.1 ) Doxepin increases systemic exposure of ramelteon; patients should be closely monitored when ramelteon is coadministered with doxepin.

=== SUCCINYLCHOLINE CHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Succinylcholine chloride injection is indicated in adults and pediatric patients: as an adjunct to general anesthesia to facilitate tracheal intubation to provide skeletal muscle relaxation during surgery or mechanical ventilation. Succinylcholine chloride is a depolarizing neuromuscular blocker indicated in adults and pediatric patients: as an adjunct to general anesthesia ( 1 ) to facilitate tracheal intubation ( 1 ) to provide skeletal muscle relaxation during surgery or mechanical ventilation. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ANECTINE is indicated in adults and pediatric patients: • as an adjunct to general anesthesia • to facilitate tracheal intubation • to provide skeletal muscle relaxation during surgery or mechanical ventilation. ANECTINE is a depolarizing neuromuscular blocker indicated in adults and pediatric patients: • as an adjunct to general anesthesia ( 1 ) • to facilitate tracheal intubation ( 1 ) • to provide skeletal muscle relaxation during surgery or mechanical ventilation ( 1 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Succinylcholine Chloride Injection is indicated in adults and pediatric patients: • as an adjunct to general anesthesia • to facilitate tracheal intubation • to provide skeletal muscle relaxation during surgery or mechanical ventilation. Succinylcholine Chloride Injection is a depolarizing neuromuscular blocker indicated in adults and pediatric patients: • as an adjunct to general anesthesia ( 1 ) • to facilitate tracheal intubation ( 1 ) • to provide skeletal muscle relaxation during surgery or mechanical ventilation. Succinylcholine chloride injection is a depolarizing neuromuscular blocker indicated in adults and pediatric patients: as an adjunct to general anesthesia ( 1 ) to facilitate tracheal intubation ( 1 ) to provide skeletal muscle relaxation during surgery or mechanical ventilation. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Succinylcholine Chloride Injection is indicated in adults and pediatric patients: as an adjunct to general anesthesia to facilitate tracheal intubation to provide skeletal muscle relaxation during surgery or mechanical ventilation INDICATIONS AND USAGE Succinylcholine Chloride Injection is a depolarizing neuromuscular blocker indicated in adults and pediatric patients: as an adjunct to general anesthesia ( 1 ) to facilitate tracheal intubation ( 1 ) to provide skeletal muscle relaxation during surgery or mechanical ventilation ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Succinylcholine chloride is indicated in adults and pediatric patients: as an adjunct to general anesthesia to facilitate tracheal intubation to provide skeletal muscle relaxation during surgery or mechanical ventilation.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For intravenous or intramuscular use only. ( 2.1 ) Individualize dosage after careful assessment of the patient. ( 2.1 ) Accidental administration of neuromuscular blocking agents may be fatal. Store succinylcholine chloride injection with the cap and ferrule intact and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product. ( 2.1 ) See full prescribing information for succinylcholine chloride injection dosage recommendations, preparation instructions, and administration information. ( 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information Succinylcholine chloride injection is for intravenous or intramuscular use only. Succinylcholine chloride injection must be titrated to effect by or under supervision of experienced clinicians who are familiar with its actions and with appropriate neuromuscular monitoring techniques. Succinylcholine chloride injection should be administered only by those skilled in the management of artificial respiration and only when facilities are instantly available for tracheal intubation and for providing adequate ventilation of the patient, including the administration of oxygen under positive pressure and the elimination of CO 2 . The clinician must be prepared to assist or control respiration. The dosage of succinylcholine chloride injection should be individualized and should always be determined by the clinician after careful assessment of the patient. To avoid distress to the patient, do not administer succinylcholine chloride injection before unconsciousness has been induced [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 )] . The occurrence of bradyarrhythmias with administration of succinylcholine chloride injection may be reduced by pretreatment with anticholinergics (e.g., atropine) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] . Monitor neuromuscular function with a peripheral nerve stimulator when using succinylcholine chloride by infusion [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] . Visually inspect succinylcholine chloride injection for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Do not administer solutions that are not clear and colorless. Succinylcholine chloride injection supplied in multiple-dose vials does not require dilution before use [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )]. Risk of Medication Errors Accidental administration of neuromuscular blocking agents may be fatal. Store succinylcholine chloride injection with the cap and ferrule intact and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . 2.2 Dosage Recommendations for Intravenous Use in Adults For Short Surgical Procedures The average dose required to produce neuromuscular blockade and to facilitate tracheal intubation is 0.6 mg/kg succinylcholine chloride injection given intravenously. The optimum intravenous dose of succinylcholine chloride injection will vary among patients and may be from 0.3 mg/kg to 1.1 mg/kg for adults. Following intravenous administration of doses in this range, neuromuscular blockade develops in about 1 minute; maximum blockade may persist for about 2 minutes, after which recovery takes place within 4 to 6 minutes. A 5 mg to 10 mg intravenous test dose of succinylcholine chloride injection may be used to determine the sensitivity of the patient and the individual recovery time [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] . For Long Surgical Procedures Continuous Intravenous Infusion The dosage of succinylcholine chloride injection administered by continuous intravenous infusion depends upon the duration of the surgical procedure and the need for muscle relaxation. Diluted succinylcholine chloride solutions containing from 1 mg/mL to 2 mg/mL succinylcholine have commonly been used for continuous intravenous infusion [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )] . The more dilute solution (1 mg/mL) is probably preferable from the standpoint of ease of control of the rate of administration of succinylcholine chloride and, hence, of relaxation. This diluted succinylcholine chloride solution containing 1 mg/mL succinylcholine may be administered intravenously at a rate of 0.5 mg (0.5 mL) per minute to 10 mg (10 mL) per minute to obtain the required amount of relaxation. The amount required per minute will depend upon the individual response as well as the degree of relaxation required. The average rate of continuous intravenous infusion for an adult ranges between 2.5 mg per minute and 4.3 mg per minute. Monitor neuromuscular function with a peripheral nerve stimulator when using succinylcholine chloride injection by infusion in order to avoid overdose, detect development of Phase II block, follow its rate of recovery, and assess the effects of reversing agents [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] . Intermittent Intravenous Injection Intermittent intravenous injections of succinylcholine chloride may also be used to provide muscle relaxation for long procedures. An intravenous injection of 0.3 mg/kg to 1.1 mg/kg may be given initially, followed, at appropriate intervals, by further intravenous injections of 0.04 mg/kg to 0.07 mg/kg to maintain the degree of relaxation required. 2.3 Dosage Recommendations for Intravenous Use in Pediatric Patients For emergency tracheal intubation or in instances where immediate securing of the airway is necessary, the intravenous dose of succinylcholine chloride injection is 2 mg/kg for infants and other small pediatric patients; for older pediatric patients and adolescents the intravenous dose is 1 mg/kg [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] . The effective dose of succinylcholine chloride injection in pediatric patients may be higher than that predicted by body weight dosing alone. For example, the usual adult intravenous dose of 0.6 mg/kg is comparable to a dose of 2 mg/kg to 3 mg/kg in neonates and infants up to 6 months of age and 1 mg/kg to 2 mg/kg in infants up to 2 years of age [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.4 Dosage Recommendations for Intramuscular Use in Adults and Pediatric Patients If a suitable vein is inaccessible, succinylcholine chloride injection may be administered intramuscularly at a dose of up to 3 mg/kg to 4 mg/kg to infants, older pediatric patients, or adults. The total dose administered by the intramuscular route should not exceed 150 mg. The onset of effect of succinylcholine given intramuscularly is usually observed in about 2 to 3 minutes. 2.5 Preparation of Succinylcholine Chloride Injection Succinylcholine chloride injection supplied in single-dose vials must be diluted before use. Succinylcholine chloride injection supplied in multiple-dose vials does not require dilution before use. Succinylcholine chloride injection may be diluted to 1 mg/mL or 2 mg/mL in a solution such as: 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Prepare the diluted succinylcholine chloride solution for single patient use only. Store the diluted succinylcholine chloride solution in a refrigerator [2 °C to 8 °C (36 °F to 46 °F)] and use within 24 hours after preparation. Visually inspect the diluted succinylcholine chloride solution for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Discard any unused portion of the diluted succinylcholine chloride solution. 2.6 Drug Incompatibility Succinylcholine chloride injection is acidic (pH is between 3.0 and 4.5) and may not be compatible with alkaline solutions having a pH greater than 8.5 (e.g., barbiturate solutions). Therefore, do not mix succinylcholine chloride with alkaline solutions. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For intravenous or intramuscular use only ( 2.1 ). • Individualize dosage after careful assessment of the patient ( 2.1 ) • Accidental administration of neuromuscular blocking agents may be fatal. Store ANECTINE with the cap and ferrule intact and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product ( 2.1 ). • See full prescribing information for ANECTINE dosage recommendations, preparation instructions, and administration information ( 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 ). 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information • ANECTINE is for intravenous or intramuscular use only. • ANECTINE must be titrated to effect by or under supervision of experienced clinicians who are familiar with its actions and with appropriate neuromuscular monitoring techniques. • ANECTINE should be administered only by those skilled in the management of artificial respiration and only when facilities are instantly available for tracheal intubation and for providing adequate ventilation of the patient, including the administration of oxygen under positive pressure and the elimination of carbon dioxide. • The dosage of ANECTINE should be individualized and should always be determined by the clinician after careful assessment of the patient. • To avoid distress to the patient, succinylcholine should not be administered before unconsciousness has been induced. In emergency situations, however, it may be necessary to administer succinylcholine before unconsciousness is induced. • The occurrence of bradyarrhythmias with administration of ANECTINE may be reduced by pretreatment with anticholinergics (e.g., atropine) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . • Monitor neuromuscular function with a peripheral nerve stimulator when using ANECTINE by infusion [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] . • Visually inspect ANECTINE for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Do not administer solutions which are not clear and colorless. Store ANECTINE with the cap and ferrule intact and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . 2.2 Dosage Recommendations for Intravenous Use in Adults For Short Surgical Procedures The average dose required to produce neuromuscular blockade and to facilitate tracheal intubation is 0.6 mg/kg ANECTINE given intravenously. The optimum intravenous dose will vary among patients and may be from 0.3 to 1.1 mg/kg for adults. Depending on the dose and duration of succinylcholine administration, the characteristic depolarizing neuromuscular block (Phase I block) may change to a block with characteristics superficially resembling a non-depolarizing block (Phase II block) [see Prolonged Neuromuscular Block due to Phase II Block and Tachyphylaxis ( 5.8 ), Overdose ( 10 ), and Pharmacodynamics ( 12.2 )]. A 5 to 10 mg test dose may be used to determine the sensitivity of the patient and the individual recovery time [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )]. For Long Surgical Procedures Continuous Intravenous Infusion The dose of ANECTINE administered by intravenous infusion depends upon the duration of the surgical procedure and the need for muscle relaxation. The average rate for an adult range between 2.5 and 4.3 mg per minute. Diluted ANECTINE solutions containing from 1 to 2 mg/mL succinylcholine have commonly been used for continuous infusion [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . The more dilute solution (1 mg/mL) is probably preferable from the standpoint of ease of control of the rate of administration of ANECTINE and hence, of relaxation. This diluted ANECTINE solution containing 1 mg/mL of succinylcholine may be administered at a rate of 0.5 mg (0.5 mL) to 10 mg (10 mL) per minute to obtain the required amount of relaxation. The amount required per minute will depend upon the individual response as well as the degree of relaxation require. Monitor neuromuscular function with a peripheral nerve stimulator when using ANECTINE by infusion in order to avoid overdose, detect development of Phase II block, follow its rate of recovery, and assess the effects of reversing agents [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . Intermittent Intravenous Injection Intermittent intravenous injections of ANECTINE may also be used to provide muscle relaxation for long procedures. An intravenous injection of 0.3 to 1.1 mg/kg may be given initially, followed, at appropriate intervals, by further intravenous injections of 0.04 to 0.07 mg/kg to maintain the degree of relaxation required. 2.3 Dosage Recommendations for Intravenous Use in Pediatric Patients For emergency tracheal intubation or in instances where immediate securing of the airway is necessary, the intravenous dose of ANECTINE is 2 mg/kg for infants and other small pediatric patients; for older pediatric patients and adolescents the dose is 1 mg/kg [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] . The effective dose of ANECTINE in pediatric patients may be higher than that predicted by body weight dosing alone. For example, the usual adult intravenous dose of 0.6 mg/kg is comparable to a dose of 2 mg/kg to 3 mg/kg in neonates and infants up to 6 months of age and 1 mg/kg to 2 mg/kg in infants up to 2 years of age [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2.4 Dosage Recommendations for Intramuscular Use in Adults and Pediatric Patients If a suitable vein is inaccessible, ANECTINE may be given intramuscularly to infants, older pediatric patients, or adults. A dose of up to 3 to 4 mg/kg may be given, but not more than 150 mg total dose should be administered by this route. 2.5 Drug Preparation ANECTINE is supplied in a multi-dose vial and does not require dilution for intravenous or intramuscular bolus dosing. ANECTINE may be diluted for continuous intravenous infusion to 1 mg/mL or 2 mg/mL in a solution such as: • 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, or • 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Prepare the diluted ANECTINE solution for single patient use only. Store the diluted ANECTINE solution in a refrigerator [2 °C to 8°C (36 °F to 46 °F)] and use within 24 hours after preparation. Visually inspect the diluted ANECTINE solution for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Discard any unused portion of the diluted ANECTINE solution. 2.6 Drug Incompatibility ANECTINE is acidic (pH 3.5) and may not be compatible with alkaline solutions having a pH greater than 8.5 (e.g., barbiturate solutions). Therefore, do not mix ANECTINE with alkaline solutions. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For intravenous or intramuscular use only. ( 2.1 ) • Individualize dosage after careful assessment of the patient. ( 2.1 ) • Accidental administration of neuromuscular blocking agents may be fatal. ( 2.1 ) • See full prescribing information for succinylcholine chloride injection dosage recommendations, preparation instructions, and administration information. ( 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information • Succinylcholine chloride injection is for intravenous or intramuscular use only. • Succinylcholine chloride injection must be titrated to effect by or under supervision of experienced clinicians who are familiar with its actions and with appropriate neuromuscular monitoring techniques. • Succinylcholine chloride injection should be administered only by those skilled in the management of artificial respiration and only when facilities are instantly available for tracheal intubation and for providing adequate ventilation of the patient, including the administration of oxygen under positive pressure and the elimination of CO 2 . • The dosage of succinylcholine chloride injection should be individualized and should always be determined by the clinician after careful assessment of the patient. • To avoid distress to the patient, do not administer succinylcholine chloride injection before unconsciousness has been induced [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) ]. • The occurrence of bradyarrhythmias with administration of succinylcholine chloride injection may be reduced by pretreatment with anticholinergics (e.g., atropine) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. • Monitor neuromuscular function with a peripheral nerve stimulator when using succinylcholine chloride injection by infusion [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. • Visually inspect succinylcholine chloride injection for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. • Succinylcholine chloride injection supplied in multiple-dose vials does not require dilution before use [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Store succinylcholine chloride injection with the cap and ferrule intact and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. A 5 to 10 mg intravenous test dose of succinylcholine chloride injection may be used to determine the sensitivity of the patient and the individual recovery time [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ]. Diluted succinylcholine chloride injection solutions containing from 1 mg/mL to 2 mg/mL succinylcholine have commonly been used for continuous intravenous infusion [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. The more dilute solution (1 mg/mL) is probably preferable from the standpoint of ease of control of the rate of administration of succinylcholine chloride injection and, hence, of relaxation. This diluted succinylcholine chloride injection solution containing 1 mg/mL succinylcholine may be administered intravenously at a rate of 0.5 mg (0.5 mL) per minute to 10 mg (10 mL) per minute to obtain the required amount of relaxation. Monitor neuromuscular function with a peripheral nerve stimulator when using succinylcholine chloride injection by infusion in order to avoid overdose, detect development of Phase II block, follow its rate of recovery, and assess the effects of reversing agents [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. 2.3 Dosage Recommendations for Intravenous Use in Pediatric Patients For emergency tracheal intubation or in instances where immediate securing of the airway is necessary, the intravenous dose of succinylcholine chloride injection is 2 mg/kg for infants and other small pediatric patients; for older pediatric patients and adolescents the intravenous dose is 1 mg/kg [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. For example, the usual adult intravenous dose of 0.6 mg/kg is comparable to a dose of 2 mg/kg to 3 mg/kg in neonates and infants up to 6 months of age and 1 mg/kg to 2 mg/kg in infants up to 2 years of age [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.5 Preparation of Succinylcholine Chloride Injection Succinylcholine chloride injection supplied in multiple-dose vials does not require dilution before use. Succinylcholine chloride injection may be diluted to 1 mg/mL or 2 mg/mL in a solution such as: • 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, or • 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Prepare the diluted succinylcholine chloride injection solution for single patient use only. Store the diluted succinylcholine chloride injection solution in a refrigerator [2° to 8°C (36° to 46°F)] and use within 24 hours after preparation. Visually inspect the diluted succinylcholine chloride injection solution for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Discard any unused portion of the diluted succinylcholine chloride injection solution. Therefore, do not mix succinylcholine chloride injection with alkaline solutions. To avoid distress to the patient, do not administer succinylcholine chloride injection before unconsciousness has been induced [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) ] . The occurrence of bradyarrhythmias with administration of succinylcholine chloride injection may be reduced by pretreatment with anticholinergics (e.g., atropine) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . Monitor neuromuscular function with a peripheral nerve stimulator when using succinylcholine chloride injection by infusion [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . Succinylcholine chloride injection supplied in multiple-dose vials does not require dilution before use [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] . Store succinylcholine chloride injection with the cap and ferrule intact and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . A 5 to 10 mg intravenous test dose of succinylcholine chloride injection may be used to determine the sensitivity of the patient and the individual recovery time [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . Diluted succinylcholine chloride injection solutions containing from 1 mg/mL to 2 mg/mL succinylcholine chloride have commonly been used for continuous intravenous infusion [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] . This diluted succinylcholine chloride injection solution containing 1 mg/mL succinylcholine chloride may be administered intravenously at a rate of 0.5 mg (0.5 mL) per minute to 10 mg (10 mL) per minute to obtain the required amount of relaxation. Monitor neuromuscular function with a peripheral nerve stimulator when using succinylcholine chloride injection by infusion in order to avoid overdose, detect development of Phase II block, follow its rate of recovery, and assess the effects of reversing agents [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . Intermittent Intravenous Injection Intermittent intravenous injections of succinylcholine chloride injection may also be used to provide muscle relaxation for long procedures. 2.3 Dosage Recommendations for Intravenous Use in Pediatric Patients For emergency tracheal intubation or in instances where immediate securing of the airway is necessary, the intravenous dose of succinylcholine chloride injection is 2 mg/kg for infants and other small pediatric patients; for older pediatric patients and adolescents the intravenous dose is 1 mg/kg [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 ), Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . For example, the usual adult intravenous dose of 0.6 mg/kg is comparable to a dose of 2 mg/kg to 3 mg/kg in neonates and infants up to 6 months of age and 1 mg/kg to 2 mg/kg in infants up to 2 years of age [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The onset of effect of succinylcholine chloride injection given intramuscularly is usually observed in about 2 to 3 minutes. Store the diluted succinylcholine chloride injection solution in a refrigerator [2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F)] and use within 24 hours after preparation. 2. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For intravenous or intramuscular use only. Store with the prefilled syringe and cap intact, and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product. ( 2.1 ) See full prescribing information for dosage recommendations, preparation instructions, and administration information. Succinylcholine Chloride Injection must be administered under supervision of experienced clinicians who are familiar with its actions and with appropriate neuromuscular monitoring techniques. To avoid distress to the patient, do not administer Succinylcholine Chloride Injection before unconsciousness has been induced [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) ]. The occurrence of bradyarrhythmias with administration of Succinylcholine Chloride Injection may be reduced by pretreatment with anticholinergics (e.g., atropine) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Monitor neuromuscular function with a peripheral nerve stimulator when using Succinylcholine Chloride Injection by infusion [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Succinylcholine Chloride Injection must be diluted for continuous intravenous infusion [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Store Succinylcholine Chloride Injection with the prefilled syringe and cap intact, and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. 2.2 Dosage Recommendations for Intravenous Use in Adults For Short Surgical Procedures The average dose required to produce neuromuscular blockade and to facilitate tracheal intubation is 0.6 mg/kg Succinylcholine Chloride given intravenously. A 5 to 10 mg test dose of Succinylcholine Chloride Injection may be used to determine the sensitivity of the patient and the individual recovery time [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ]. Diluted solutions containing from 1 mg/mL to 2 mg/mL succinylcholine have commonly been used for continuous intravenous infusion [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Succinylcholine Chloride Injection, 1 mg per mL, may be administered at a rate of 0.5 mg (0.5 mL) per minute to 10 mg (10 mL) per minute to obtain the required amount of relaxation. An intravenous injection of 0.3 mg/kg to 1.1 mg/kg may be given initially, followed, at appropriate intervals, by further injections of 0.04 mg/kg to 0.07 mg/kg to maintain the degree of relaxation required. 2.3 Dosage Recommendations for Intravenous Use in Pediatric Patients For emergency tracheal intubation or in instances where immediate securing of the airway is necessary, the intravenous dose of Succinylcholine Chloride Injection is 2 mg/kg for infants and other small pediatric patients; for older pediatric patients and adolescents the intravenous dose of Succinylcholine Chloride is 1 mg/kg [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. For example, the usual adult intravenous dose of 0.6 mg/kg is comparable to a dose of 2 mg/kg to 3 mg/kg in neonates and infants up to 6 months of age and 1 mg/kg to 2 mg/kg in infants up to 2 years of age [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.5 Preparation of Succinylcholine Chloride Injection Succinylcholine Chloride Injection is supplied in a single-dose, prefilled syringe, and does not require dilution for intravenous or intramuscular bolus dosing. Succinylcholine Chloride Injection may be diluted for continuous intravenous infusion to 1 mg/mL or 2 mg/mL in a solution such as: 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Prepare the diluted Succinylcholine Chloride solution for single patient use only. 2.6 Drug Incompatibility Succinylcholine Chloride Injection is acidic (pH 3.5) and may not be compatible with alkaline solutions having a pH greater than 8.5 (e.g., barbiturate solutions). 2.7 Instructions for Use of Prefilled Syringe CAUTION: Assure that the needle or Needleless Luer Access Device (NLAD) is securely attached before beginning the injection. Visually inspect the syringe-needle or syringe-NLAD connection before and during drug administration. Administration Technique Figure 1 Succinylcholine Chloride Injection may be administered intravenously or intramuscularly. 1. Inspect the outer packaging (Blister Pack) and the syringe label by verifying: - Blister pack integrity - drug name - drug strength - fill volume - route of administration - expiration date to be sure that the drug has not expired - sterile field applicability Do not use if package has been damaged 2. Open the outer packaging and remove the syringe from the Blister pack. Do not pop syringe through. 3. Perform visual inspection on the syringe by verifying: - absence of syringe damage - absence of external particles - absence of internal particles - proper drug color 4. Push plunger rod slightly while tip cap is still on to break the stopper loose. 5. Remove tip cap by twisting it off. (See Figure 2) Figure 2 6. Discard the tip cap. 7. Expel air bubble. 8. Connect the syringe to an appropriate injection connection depending on the route of administration. - Before injection, ensure that the syringe is securely attached to the needle or NLAD. 9. Depress plunger rod to deliver the required dose of medication. Ensure that pressure is maintained on the plunger rod during the entire administration. Waste residual medication per institutional policy. 10. Remove syringe from NLAD (if applicable) and discard into appropriate receptacle. When a needle is connected to the syringe, to prevent needle-stick injuries, do not recap needles. NOTES: All steps must be performed sequentially Do not autoclave syringe Do not use this product on a sterile field Do not introduce any other fluid into the syringe at any time This product is for single dose only; discard unused portion Fig.1 Fig.2 Succinylcholine Chloride Injection supplied in multiple-dose vials does not require dilution before use [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Diluted Succinylcholine Chloride Injection solutions containing from 1 mg/mL to 2 mg/mL succinylcholine have commonly been used for continuous intravenous infusion [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] . Succinylcholine Chloride Injection may be diluted to 1 mg/mL or 2 mg/mL in a solution such as: 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Prepare the diluted Succinylcholine Chloride Injection solution for single patient use only. Store the diluted Succinylcholine Chloride Injection solution in a refrigerator [2 °C to 8 °C (36 °F to 46 °F)] and use within 24 hours after preparation. Monitor neuromuscular function with a peripheral nerve stimulator when using succinylcholine chloride injection by infusion [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] . Succinylcholine chloride injection supplied in multiple-dose vials does not require dilution before use [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )] . A 5 to 10 mg intravenous test dose of succinylcholine chloride injection may be used to determine the sensitivity of the patient and the individual recovery time [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] . Diluted succinylcholine chloride injection solutions containing from 1 mg/mL to 2 mg/mL succinylcholine have commonly been used for continuous intravenous infusion [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )] . Store succinylcholine chloride with the cap and ferrule intact and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product. ( 2.1 ) See full prescribing information for succinylcholine chloride dosage recommendations, preparation instructions, and administration information. ( 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information Succinylcholine chloride is for intravenous or intramuscular use only. Succinylcholine chloride must be titrated to effect by or under supervision of experienced clinicians who are familiar with its actions and with appropriate neuromuscular monitoring techniques. Succinylcholine chloride should be administered only by those skilled in the management of artificial respiration and only when facilities are instantly available for tracheal intubation and for providing adequate ventilation of the patient, including the administration of oxygen under positive pressure and the elimination of CO 2 . The dosage of succinylcholine chloride should be individualized and should always be determined by the clinician after careful assessment of the patient. To avoid distress to the patient, do not administer succinylcholine chloride before unconsciousness has been induced [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) ]. The occurrence of bradyarrhythmias with administration of succinylcholine chloride may be reduced by pretreatment with anticholinergics (e.g., atropine) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Monitor neuromuscular function with a peripheral nerve stimulator when using succinylcholine chloride by infusion [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Visually inspect succinylcholine chloride for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Succinylcholine chloride supplied in multiple-dose vials does not require dilution before use [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. Store succinylcholine chloride with the cap and ferrule intact and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . The optimum intravenous dose of succinylcholine chloride will vary among patients and may be from 0.3 mg/kg to 1.1 mg/kg for adults. A 5 to 10 mg intravenous test dose of succinylcholine chloride may be used to determine the sensitivity of the patient and the individual recovery time [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . For Long Surgical Procedures Continuous Intravenous Infusion The dosage of succinylcholine chloride administered by continuous intravenous infusion depends upon the duration of the surgical procedure and the need for muscle relaxation. Diluted succinylcholine chloride solutions containing from 1 mg/mL to 2 mg/mL succinylcholine have commonly been used for continuous intravenous infusion [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] . Monitor neuromuscular function with a peripheral nerve stimulator when using succinylcholine chloride by infusion in order to avoid overdose, detect development of Phase II block, follow its rate of recovery, and assess the effects of reversing agents [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . 2.3 Dosage Recommendations for Intravenous Use in Pediatric Patients For emergency tracheal intubation or in instances where immediate securing of the airway is necessary, the intravenous dose of succinylcholine chloride is 2 mg/kg for infants and other small pediatric patients; for older pediatric patients and adolescents the intravenous dose is 1 mg/kg [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. The effective dose of succinylcholine chloride in pediatric patients may be higher than that predicted by body weight dosing alone. 2.4 Dosage Recommendations for Intramuscular Use in Adults and Pediatric Patients If a suitable vein is inaccessible, succinylcholine chloride may be administered intramuscularly at a dose of up to 3 mg/kg to 4 mg/kg to infants, older pediatric patients, or adults. 2.5 Preparation of Succinylcholine Chloride Injection, Solution Succinylcholine chloride supplied in multiple-dose vials does not require dilution before use. Succinylcholine chloride may be diluted to 1 mg/mL or 2 mg/mL in a solution such as: 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Prepare the diluted succinylcholine chloride solution for single patient use only. 2.6 Drug Incompatibility Succinylcholine chloride is acidic (pH is between 3.0 and 4.5) and may not be compatible with alkaline solutions having a pH greater than 8.5 (e.g., barbiturate solutions). Store succinylcholine chloride injection with prefilled syringe and the cap intact and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product. ( 2.2 , 2.3, 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information • Succinylcholine chloride injection is for intravenous or intramuscular use only. • To avoid distress to the patient, do not administer succinylcholine chloride injection before unconsciousness has been induced [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) ] . • The occurrence of bradyarrhythmias with administration of succinylcholine chloride injection may be reduced by pretreatment with anticholinergics (e.g., atropine) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . • Monitor neuromuscular function with a peripheral nerve stimulator when using succinylcholine chloride injection by infusion [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . • Succinylcholine chloride injection supplied in single-dose prefilled syringes does not require dilution before use [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] . Store succinylcholine chloride injection with the cap intact and in a manner that minimizes the possibility of selecting the wrong product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Following intravenous administration of doses in this range, neuromuscular blockade develops in about 1 minute; maximum blockade may persist for about 2 minutes, after which recovery takes place within 4 minutes to 6 minutes. A 5 mg to 10 mg intravenous test dose of succinylcholine chloride injection may be used to determine the sensitivity of the patient and the individual recovery time [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . 2.3 Dosage Recommendations for Intravenous Use in Pediatric Patients For emergency tracheal intubation or in instances where immediate securing of the airway is necessary, the intravenous dose of succinylcholine chloride injection is 2 mg/kg for infants and other small pediatric patients; for older pediatric patients and adolescents the intravenous dose is 1 mg/kg [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . The onset of effect of succinylcholine given intramuscularly is usually observed in about 2 minutes to 3 minutes. Succinylcholine chloride injection may be diluted for continuous intravenous infusion to 1 mg/mL or 2 mg/mL in a solution such as: • 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, or • 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP Prepare the diluted succinylcholine chloride injection solution for single patient use only. Administration Technique Figure 1 • 5 mL – Pre-filled Syringe • 10 mL – Pre-filled Syringe Succinylcholine Chloride Injection may be administered intravenously or intramuscularly. Inspect the outer packaging and the syringe label by verifying: - drug name - drug strength - fill volume - route of administration - expiration date to be sure that the drug has not expired Do not use if package has been damaged 2. Open the outer packaging and remove the syringe from carton. Visually inspect syringe for syringe damage, particulate matter, and discoloration. 4. NOTES: • All steps must be performed sequentially • Do not autoclave syringe • Do not use this product on a sterile field • Do not introduce any other fluid into the syringe at any time • This product is for single dose only; discard unused portion image-01-5ml-syringe image-02-10ml-syringe image-03-syringe-instructions
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Succinylcholine chloride is contraindicated: in patients with skeletal muscle myopathies [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] in patients with known hypersensitivity to succinylcholine. Severe anaphylactic reactions to succinylcholine have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] after the acute phase of injury following major burns, multiple trauma, extensive denervation of skeletal muscle, or upper motor neuron injury, which may result in severe hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] in patients with known or suspected genetic susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] Skeletal muscle myopathies ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to succinylcholine ( 4 ) After the acute phase of injury following major burns, multiple trauma, extensive denervation of skeletal muscle, or upper motor neuron injury ( 4 ) Known or suspected genetic susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ANECTINE is contraindicated in patients with: • Known or suspected genetic susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia [see WARNINGS, Malignant Hyperthermia ( 5.5 ), CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacogenomics ( 12.5 )] • Skeletal muscle myopathies [see WARNINGS, Ventricular Dysrhythmias, Cardiac Arrest, and Death From Hyperkalemic Rhabdomyolysis in Pediatric Patients ( 5.1 )] • Known hypersensitivity to succinylcholine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . • After the acute phase of injury following major burns, multiple trauma, extensive denervation of the skeletal muscle, or upper neuron injury because succinylcholine administered to such individuals may result in severe hyperkalemia, which may result in cardiac arrest [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . • Skeletal muscle myopathies ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to succinylcholine ( 4 ) • After the acute phase of injury following major burns, multiple trauma, extensive denervation of skeletal muscle, or upper motor neuron injury ( 4 ) • Known or suspected genetic susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ANECTINE is contraindicated in patients with: • Known or suspected genetic susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia [see WARNINGS, Malignant Hyperthermia ( 5.5 ), CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacogenomics ( 12.5 )] • Skeletal muscle myopathies [see WARNINGS, Ventricular Dysrhythmias, Cardiac Arrest, and Death From Hyperkalemic Rhabdomyolysis in Pediatric Patients ( 5.1 )] • Known hypersensitivity to succinylcholine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] • After the acute phase of injury following major burns, multiple trauma, extensive denervation of the skeletal muscle, or upper neuron injury because succinylcholine administered to such individuals may result in severe hyperkalemia, which may result in cardiac arrest [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] • Skeletal muscle myopathies ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to succinylcholine ( 4 ) • After the acute phase of injury following major burns, multiple trauma, extensive denervation of skeletal muscle, or upper motor neuron injury ( 4 ) • Known or suspected genetic susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Succinylcholine chloride injection is contraindicated: • in patients with skeletal muscle myopathies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] • in patients with known hypersensitivity to succinylcholine. Severe anaphylactic reactions to succinylcholine have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] • after the acute phase of injury following major burns, multiple trauma, extensive denervation of skeletal muscle, or upper motor neuron injury, which may result in severe hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] • in patients with known or suspected genetic susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] • Skeletal muscle myopathies ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to succinylcholine ( 4 ) • After the acute phase of injury following major burns, multiple trauma, extensive denervation of skeletal muscle, or upper motor neuron injury ( 4 ) • Known or suspected genetic susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Succinylcholine chloride is contraindicated: in patients with skeletal muscle myopathies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] in patients with known hypersensitivity to succinylcholine chloride. Severe anaphylactic reactions to succinylcholine chloride have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] after the acute phase of injury following major burns, multiple trauma, extensive denervation of skeletal muscle, or upper motor neuron injury, which may result in severe hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] in patients with known or suspected genetic susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] Skeletal muscle myopathies ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to succinylcholine chloride ( 4 ) After the acute phase of injury following major burns, multiple trauma, extensive denervation of skeletal muscle, or upper motor neuron injury ( 4 ) Known or suspected genetic susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Succinylcholine Chloride Injection is contraindicated: in patients with skeletal muscle myopathies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] in patients with known hypersensitivity to succinylcholine. Severe anaphylactic reactions to succinylcholine have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] after the acute phase of injury following major burns, multiple trauma, extensive denervation of skeletal muscle, or upper motor neuron injury, which may result in severe hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] in patients with known or suspected genetic susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.5 ) ] Skeletal muscle myopathies ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to succinylcholine ( 4 ) After the acute phase of injury following major burns, multiple trauma, extensive denervation of skeletal muscle, or upper motor neuron injury ( 4 ) Personal or familial history of malignant hyperthermia ( 4 ) Severe anaphylactic reactions to succinylcholine have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] after the acute phase of injury following major burns, multiple trauma, extensive denervation of skeletal muscle, or upper motor neuron injury, which may result in severe hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] in patients with known or suspected genetic susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] Skeletal muscle myopathies ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to succinylcholine ( 4 ) After the acute phase of injury following major burns, multiple trauma, extensive denervation of skeletal muscle, or upper motor neuron injury ( 4 ) Known or suspected genetic susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Succinylcholine chloride injection is contraindicated: in patients with skeletal muscle myopathies [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. in patients with known hypersensitivity to succinylcholine. Severe anaphylactic reactions to succinylcholine have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. after the acute phase of injury following major burns, multiple trauma, extensive denervation of skeletal muscle, or upper motor neuron injury, which may result in severe hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. in patients with known or suspected genetic susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )]. Skeletal muscle myopathies. (4) Known hypersensitivity to succinylcholine. (4) After the acute phase of injury following major burns, multiple trauma, extensive denervation of skeletal muscle, or upper motor neuron injury. (4) Known or suspected genetic susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Succinylcholine chloride is contraindicated: in patients with skeletal muscle myopathies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] in patients with known hypersensitivity to succinylcholine. Severe anaphylactic reactions to succinylcholine have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] after the acute phase of injury following major burns, multiple trauma, extensive denervation of skeletal muscle, or upper motor neuron injury, which may result in severe hyperkalemia and cardiac arrest [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] in patients with personal or familial history of malignant hyperthermia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] Skeletal muscle myopathies ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to succinylcholine ( 4 ) After the acute phase of injury following major burns, multiple trauma, extensive denervation of skeletal muscle, or upper motor neuron injury ( 4 ) Personal or familial history of malignant hyperthermia ( 4 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that May Enhance the Neuromuscular Blocking Action of Succinylcholine : promazine, oxytocin, aprotinin, certain non-penicillin antibiotics, quinidine, β-adrenergic blockers, procainamide, lidocaine, trimethaphan, lithium carbonate, magnesium salts, quinine, chloroquine, isoflurane, desflurane, metoclopramide, terbutaline, and drugs that reduce plasma cholinesterase activity. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Drugs that May Affect the Neuromuscular Blocking Action of Succinylcholine Chloride Drugs that may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of succinylcholine include: promazine, oxytocin, aprotinin, certain non-penicillin antibiotics, quinidine, β-adrenergic blockers, procainamide, lidocaine, trimethaphan, lithium carbonate, magnesium salts, quinine, chloroquine, isoflurane, desflurane, metoclopramide, and terbutaline. The neuromuscular blocking effect of succinylcholine may be enhanced by drugs that reduce plasma cholinesterase activity (e.g., chronically administered oral contraceptives, glucocorticoids, or certain monoamine oxidase inhibitors) or by drugs that irreversibly inhibit plasma cholinesterase [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )]. If other neuromuscular blocking agents are to be used during the same procedure, consider the possibility of a synergistic or antagonistic effect. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that may Enhance the Neuromuscular Blocking Action of Succinylcholine: promazine, oxytocin, aprotinin, certain non-penicillin antibiotics, quinidine, β-adrenergic blockers, procainamide, lidocaine, trimethaphan, lithium carbonate, magnesium salts, quinine, chloroquine, isoflurane, desflurane, metoclopramide, terbutaline, and drugs that reduce plasma cholinesterase activity. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Drugs that May Affect the Neuromuscular Blocking Action of ANECTINE Drugs that may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of succinylcholine include: promazine, oxytocin, aprotinin, certain non-penicillin antibiotics, β-adrenergic blockers, procainamide, lidocaine, trimethaphan, lithium carbonate, magnesium salts, quinine, chloroquine, diethylether, isoflurane, desflurane, metoclopramide, and terbutaline. The neuromuscular blocking effect of succinylcholine may be enhanced by drugs that reduce plasma cholinesterase activity (e.g., chronically administered oral contraceptives, glucocorticoids, or certain monoamine oxidase inhibitors) or by drugs that irreversibly inhibit plasma cholinesterase [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . If other neuromuscular blocking agents are to be used during the same procedure, the possibility of a synergistic or antagonistic effect should be considered. The neuromuscular blocking effect of succinylcholine may be enhanced by drugs that reduce plasma cholinesterase activity (e.g., chronically administered oral contraceptives, glucocorticoids, or certain monoamine oxidase inhibitors) or by drugs that irreversibly inhibit plasma cholinesterase [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that May Enhance the Neuromuscular Blocking Action of Succinylcholine Chloride : promazine, oxytocin, aprotinin, certain non-penicillin antibiotics, quinidine, β-adrenergic blockers, procainamide, lidocaine, trimethaphan, lithium carbonate, magnesium salts, quinine, chloroquine, isoflurane, desflurane, metoclopramide, terbutaline, and drugs that reduce plasma cholinesterase activity. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Drugs that May Affect the Neuromuscular Blocking Action of Succinylcholine Chloride Drugs that may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of succinylcholine chloride include: promazine, oxytocin, aprotinin, certain non-penicillin antibiotics, quinidine, β-adrenergic blockers, procainamide, lidocaine, trimethaphan, lithium carbonate, magnesium salts, quinine, chloroquine, isoflurane, desflurane, metoclopramide, and terbutaline. The neuromuscular blocking effect of succinylcholine chloride may be enhanced by drugs that reduce plasma cholinesterase activity (e.g., chronically administered oral contraceptives, glucocorticoids, or certain monoamine oxidase inhibitors) or by drugs that irreversibly inhibit plasma cholinesterase [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ]. 7. DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that May Enhance the Neuromuscular Blocking Action of Succinylcholine: promazine, oxytocin, aprotinin, certain non-penicillin antibiotics, quinidine, β-adrenergic blockers, procainamide, lidocaine, trimethaphan, lithium carbonate, magnesium salts, quinine, chloroquine, isoflurane, desflurane, metoclopramide, terbutaline, and drugs that reduce plasma cholinesterase activity. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Drugs that May Affect the Neuromuscular Blocking Action of Succinylcholine Chloride Injection Drugs that may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of succinylcholine include: promazine, oxytocin, aprotinin, certain non-penicillin antibiotics, quinidine, β-adrenergic blockers, procainamide, lidocaine, trimethaphan, lithium carbonate, magnesium salts, quinine, chloroquine, isoflurane, desflurane, metoclopramide, and terbutaline. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Drugs that May Affect the Neuromuscular Blocking Action of Succinylcholine Drugs that may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of succinylcholine include: promazine, oxytocin, aprotinin, certain non-penicillin antibiotics, quinidine, β-adrenergic blockers, procainamide, lidocaine, trimethaphan, lithium carbonate, magnesium salts, quinine, chloroquine, isoflurane, desflurane, metoclopramide, and terbutaline. The neuromuscular blocking effect of succinylcholine may be enhanced by drugs that reduce plasma cholinesterase activity (e.g., chronically administered oral contraceptives, glucocorticoids, or certain monoamine oxidase inhibitors) or by drugs that irreversibly inhibit plasma cholinesterase [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] .

=== SUMATRIPTAN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sumatriptan Injection, USP is indicated in adults for (1) the acute treatment of migraine, with or without aura, and (2) the acute treatment of cluster headache. Limitations of Use: • Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine or cluster headache has been established. If a patient has no response to the first migraine attack treated with Sumatriptan Injection reconsider the diagnosis before Sumatriptan Injection is administered to treat any subsequent attacks. • Sumatriptan Injection is not indicated for the prevention of migraine attacks or cluster headache attacks. Sumatriptan injection, USP is a serotonin (5-HT 1B/1D ) receptor agonist (triptan) indicated for: • Acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults (1) • Acute treatment of cluster headache in adults (1) Limitations of Use : • Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine or cluster headache has been established (1) • Not indicated for the prophylactic therapy of migraine or cluster headache attacks (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE TOSYMRA is indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults. TOSYMRA is a serotonin (5-HT 1B/1D ) receptor agonist (triptan) indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults ( 1 ) Limitations of Use : Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine has been established ( 1 ) Not indicated for the preventive treatment of migraine ( 1 ) Not indicated for the treatment of cluster headache ( 1 ) Limitations of Use : Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine has been established. If a patient has no response to the first migraine attack treated with TOSYMRA, reconsider the diagnosis before TOSYMRA is administered to treat any subsequent attacks. TOSYMRA is not indicated for the preventive treatment of migraine. TOSYMRA is not indicated for the treatment of cluster headache. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sumatriptan tablets are indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults. Limitations of Use: Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine headache has been established. If a patient has no response to the first migraine attack treated with sumatriptan, reconsider the diagnosis of migraine before sumatriptan is administered to treat any subsequent attacks. Sumatriptan is not indicated for the prevention of migraine attacks. Safety and effectiveness of sumatriptan tablets have not been established for cluster headache. Sumatriptan is a serotonin (5-HT1B/1D) receptor agonist (triptan) indicated for acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults. (1) Not indicated for the prophylactic therapy of migraine attacks. (1) Not indicated for the treatment of cluster headache. (1) Limitations of Use: • Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine headache has been established. • Sumatriptan is not indicated for the prevention of migraine attacks. • Safety and effectiveness of sumatriptan tablets have not been established for cluster headache. (1) • Not indicated for the prophylactic therapy of migraine attacks. (1) • Not indicated for the treatment of cluster headache. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sumatriptan injection is indicated in adults for (1) the acute treatment of migraine, with or without aura, and (2) the acute treatment of cluster headache. Limitations of Use: Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine or cluster headache has been established. If a patient has no response to the first migraine or cluster headache attack treated with sumatriptan injection, reconsider the diagnosis before sumatriptan injection is administered to treat any subsequent attacks. Sumatriptan injection is not indicated for the prevention of migraine or cluster headache attacks. SUMATRIPTAN injection, for subcutaneous use Sumatriptan injection is a serotonin (5-HT1B/1D) receptor agonist (triptan) indicated for: Acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults. ( 1 ) Acute treatment of cluster headache in adults. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use: Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine or cluster headache has been established. ( 1 ) Not indicated for the prophylactic therapy of migraine or cluster headache attacks. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sumatriptan tablets, USP are indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults. If a patient has no response to the first migraine attack treated with sumatriptan tablets, USP, reconsider the diagnosis of migraine before sumatriptan tablets, USP are administered to treat any subsequent attacks. • Sumatriptan tablets, USP are not indicated for the prevention of migraine attacks. • Safety and effectiveness of sumatriptan tablets, USP have not been established for cluster headache. Sumatriptan tablets, USP are a serotonin (5-HT 1B/1D ) receptor agonist (triptan) indicated for acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use: • Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine headache has been established. ( 1 ) • Not indicated for the prophylactic therapy of migraine attacks. ( 1 ) • Not indicated for the treatment of cluster headache. (1) Limitations of Use: • Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine headache has been established. Limitations of Use Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine or cluster headache has been established. Sumatriptan injection is a serotonin (5-HT 1B/1D ) receptor agonist (triptan) indicated for: Acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults. (1) Acute treatment of cluster headache in adults. (1) Limitations of Use Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine or cluster headache has been established. (1) Not indicated for the prophylactic therapy of migraine or cluster headache attacks. If a patient has no response to the first migraine attack treated with sumatriptan tablets, reconsider the diagnosis of migraine before sumatriptan tablets are administered to treat any subsequent attacks. Sumatriptan tablets are not indicated for the prevention of migraine attacks. Sumatriptan tablets are a serotonin (5-HT 1B/1D ) receptor agonist (triptan) indicated for acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use: Use only if a clear diagnosis of migraine headache has been established. ( 1 ) Not indicated for the prophylactic therapy of migraine attacks. ( 1 ) Not indicated for the treatment of cluster headache.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For subcutaneous use only (2.1) • Acute treatment of migraine: single dose of 1 to 6 mg (2.1) • Acute treatment of cluster headache: single dose of 6 mg (2.1) • Maximum dose in a 24-hour period: 12 mg, separate doses by at least 1 hour (2.1) • Patients receiving doses other than 4 or 6 mg: Use the 6-mg single-dose vial (2.3) 2.1 Dosing Information The maximum single recommended adult dose of Sumatriptan injection, USP for the acute treatment of migraine or cluster headache is 6 mg injected subcutaneously. For the treatment of migraine, if side effects are dose limiting, lower doses (1 mg to 5 mg) may be used [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. For the treatment of cluster headache, the efficacy of lower doses has not been established. The maximum cumulative dose that may be given in 24 hours is 12 mg, two 6 mg injections separated by at least 1 hour. A second 6-mg dose should only be considered if some response to a first injection was observed. 2.3 Administration of Doses of Sumatriptan Other than 4 or 6 mg In patients receiving doses other than 4mg or 6 mg, use the 6-mg single-dose vial; Visually inspect the vial for particulate matter and discoloration before administration. Do not use if particulates and discolorations are noted. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of TOSYMRA is 10 mg given as a single spray in one nostril. The maximum cumulative dose that may be given in a 24-hour period is 30 mg, with doses of TOSYMRA separated by at least 1 hour. TOSYMRA may also be given at least 1 hour following a dose of another sumatriptan product. Single dose of 10 mg of nasal spray ( 2 ) Maximum dose in a 24-hour period: 30 mg; separate doses by at least one hour ( 2 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Single dose of 25 mg, 50 mg, or 100 mg tablet. (2.1) A second dose should only be considered if some response to the first dose was observed. Separate doses by at least 2 hours. (2.1) Maximum dose in a 24 hour period: 200 mg. (2.1) Maximum single dose should not exceed 50 mg in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. (2.2) 2.1 Dosing Information The recommended dose of sumatriptan tablets is 25 mg, 50 mg, or 100 mg. Doses of 50 mg and 100 mg may provide a greater effect than the 25 mg dose, but doses of 100 mg may not provide a greater effect than the 50 mg dose. Higher doses may have a greater risk of adverse reactions [see Clinical Studies (14)] . If the migraine has not resolved by 2 hours after taking sumatriptan tablets, or returns after a transient improvement, a second dose may be administered at least 2 hours after the first dose. The maximum daily dose is 200 mg in a 24 hour period. Use after sumatriptan injection If the migraine returns following an initial treatment with sumatriptan injection, additional single sumatriptan tablets (up to 100 mg/day) may be given with an interval of at least 2 hours between tablet doses. The safety of treating an average of more than 4 headaches in a 30 day period has not been established. 2.2 Dosing in Patients with Hepatic Impairment If treatment is deemed advisable in the presence of mild to moderate hepatic impairment, the maximum single dose should not exceed 50 mg [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Single dose of 25 mg, 50 mg, or 100 mg tablet. (2.1) • A second dose should only be considered if some response to the first dose was observed. (2.1) • Maximum dose in a 24 hour period: 200 mg. (2.1) • Maximum single dose should not exceed 50 mg in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For subcutaneous use only ( 2.1 ) Acute treatment of migraine: single dose of 4 mg or 6 mg. ( 2.1 ) Acute treatment of cluster headache: single dose of 6 mg. ( 2.1 ) Maximum dose in a 24-hour period: 12 mg, separate doses by at least 1 hour. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Dosing Information The maximum single recommended adult dose of sumatriptan injection for the acute treatment of migraine or cluster headache is 6 mg injected subcutaneously. For the treatment of migraine, if side effects are dose limiting, the lower dose of 4 mg may be used [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. A second 6 mg dose should only be considered if some response to a first injection was observed. 2.2 Administration Using the Sumatriptan injection Autoinjector An autoinjector device is available for use with 4-mg and 6-mg prefilled syringes. With this prefilled syringe autoinjector, the needle penetrates approximately 1/4 inch (5 to 6 mm). The injection is intended to be given subcutaneously, and intramuscular or intravascular delivery must be avoided. Instruct patients on the proper use of Sumatriptan injection autoinjector and direct them to use injection sites with an adequate skin and subcutaneous thickness to accommodate the length of the needle. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Single dose of 25 mg, 50 mg, or 100 mg tablet.( 2.1 ) • A second dose should only be considered if some response to the first dose was observed. ( 2.1 ) • Maximum dose in a 24-hour period: 200 mg. ( 2.1 ) • Maximum single dose should not exceed 50 mg in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Dosing Information The recommended dose of sumatriptan tablets is 25 mg, 50 mg, or 100 mg. Higher doses may have a greater risk of adverse reactions [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . The maximum daily dose is 200 mg in a 24-hour period. Use after Sumatriptan Injection : If the migraine returns following an initial treatment with sumatriptan injection, additional single sumatriptan tablets (up to 100 mg/day) may be given with an interval of at least 2 hours between tablet doses. The safety of treating an average of more than 4 headaches in a 30-day period has not been established. 2.2 Dosing in Patients With Hepatic Impairment If treatment is deemed advisable in the presence of mild to moderate hepatic impairment, the maximum single dose should not exceed 50 mg [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Single dose of 25 mg, 50 mg, or 100 mg tablet.(2.1) • A second dose should only be considered if some response to the first dose was observed. (2.1) • Maximum dose in a 24-hour period: 200 mg. Use after sumatriptan injection : If the migraine returns following an initial treatment with sumatriptan succinate injection, additional single sumatriptan tablets (up to 100 mg/day) may be given with an interval of at least 2 hours between tablet doses. 2.2 Dosing in Patients With Hepatic Impairment If treatment is deemed advisable in the presence of mild to moderate hepatic impairment, the maximum single dose should not exceed 50 mg [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For subcutaneous use only. (2.1) Acute treatment of migraine: single dose of 6 mg. (2.1) Acute treatment of cluster headache: single dose of 6 mg. (2.1) Maximum dose in a 24-hour period: 12 mg, separate doses by at least 1 hour. (2.1) 2.1 Dosing Information The maximum single recommended adult dose of sumatriptan injection for the acute treatment of migraine or cluster headache is 6 mg injected subcutaneously. For the treatment of migraine, if side effects are dose limiting, lower doses 4 mg may be used [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The maximum cumulative dose that may be given in 24 hours is 12 mg, two 6-mg injections separated by at least 1 hour. 2.3 Administration Using the Sumatriptan Autoinjector An autoinjector device (Sumatriptan autoinjector) is available for use with 6-mg prefilled syringe to facilitate self-administration in patients using the 6-mg dose. With this device, the needle penetrates approximately 1/4 inch (5 to 6 mm). Instruct patients on the proper use of Sumatriptan autoinjector and direct them to use injection sites with an adequate skin and subcutaneous thickness to accommodate the length of the needle. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Single dose of 25-mg, 50-mg, or 100-mg tablet. ( 2.1 ) A second dose should only be considered if some response to the first dose was observed. ( 2.1 ) Maximum dose in a 24-hour period: 200 mg. ( 2.1 ) Maximum single dose should not exceed 50 mg in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. Doses of 50 mg and 100 mg may provide a greater effect than the 25-mg dose, but doses of 100 mg may not provide a greater effect than the 50-mg dose. 2.2 Dosing in Patients with Hepatic Impairment If treatment is deemed advisable in the presence of mild to moderate hepatic impairment, the maximum single dose should not exceed 50 mg [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] .
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sumatriptan Injection is contraindicated in patients with: • Ischemic coronary artery disease (CAD) (angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, or documented silent ischemia) or coronary artery vasospasm, including Prinzmetal’s angina [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. • Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. • History of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) or History of hemiplegic or basilar migraine because these patients are at a higher risk of stroke [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. • Peripheral vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. • Ischemic bowel disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. • Uncontrolled hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. • Recent use (i.e., within 24 hours) of ergotamine-containing medication, ergot-type medication (such as dihydroergotamine or methysergide), or another 5-hydroxytryptamine1 (5-HT 1 ) agonist [see Drug Interactions (7.1, 7.3)]. • Concurrent administration of a monoamine oxidase (MAO)-A inhibitor or recent (within 2 weeks) use of an MAO-A inhibitor [see Drug Interactions (7.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. • Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. • Severe hepatic impairment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. • History of coronary artery disease or coronary artery vasospasm (4) • Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders (4) • History of stroke, transient ischemic attack, or hemiplegic or basilar migraine (4) • Peripheral vascular disease (4) • Ischemic bowel disease (4) • Uncontrolled hypertension (4) • Recent (within 24 hours) use of another 5-HT 1 agonist (e.g., another triptan) or of an ergotamine-containing medication (4) • Concurrent or recent (past 2 weeks) use of monoamine oxidase-A inhibitor (4) • Hypersensitivity to Sumatriptan Injection (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) (4) • Severe hepatic impairment (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS TOSYMRA is contraindicated in patients with: Ischemic coronary artery disease (CAD) (angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, or documented silent ischemia) or coronary artery vasospasm, including Prinzmetal's angina [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . History of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) or history of hemiplegic or basilar migraine because these patients are at a higher risk of stroke [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Peripheral vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Ischemic bowel disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Uncontrolled hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . Recent use (i.e., within 24 hours) of ergotamine-containing medication, ergot-type medication (such as dihydroergotamine or methysergide), or another 5-hydroxytryptamine 1 (5-HT 1 ) agonist [see Drug Interactions (7.1 , 7.3) ] . Concurrent administration of a monoamine oxidase (MAO)-A inhibitor or recent (within 2 weeks) use of an MAO-A inhibitor [see Drug Interactions (7.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . Severe hepatic impairment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . History of coronary artery disease or coronary vasospasm ( 4 ) Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders ( 4 ) History of stroke, transient ischemic attack, or hemiplegic or basilar migraine ( 4 ) Peripheral vascular disease ( 4 ) Ischemic bowel disease ( 4 ) Uncontrolled hypertension ( 4 ) Recent (within 24 hours) use of another 5-HT 1 agonist (e.g., another triptan) or of an ergotamine-containing medication ( 4 ) Concurrent or recent (past 2 weeks) use of monoamine oxidase-A inhibitor ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) ( 4 ) Severe hepatic impairment ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sumatriptan tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Ischemic coronary artery disease (CAD) (angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, or documented silent ischemia) or coronary artery vasospasm, including Prinzmetal’s angina [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] History of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) or history of hemiplegic or basilar migraine because these patients are at a higher risk of stroke [s ee Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Peripheral vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Ischemic bowel disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Uncontrolled hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Recent use (i.e., within 24 hours) of ergotamine-containing medication, ergot-type medication (such as dihydroergotamine or methysergide), or another 5-hydroxytryptamine 1 (5-HT 1 ) agonist [see Drug Interactions (7.1, 7.3)] Concurrent administration of a monoamine oxidase (MAO)-A inhibitor or recent (within 2 weeks) use of an MAO-A inhibitor [see Drug Interactions (7.2), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] History of coronary artery disease or coronary artery vasospasm (4) Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders (4) History of stroke, transient ischemic attack, or hemiplegic or basilar migraine (4) Peripheral vascular disease (4) Ischemic bowel disease (4) Uncontrolled hypertension (4) Recent (within 24 hours) use of another 5-HT 1 agonist (e.g., another triptan) or of an ergotamine-containing medication (4) Concurrent or recent (past 2 weeks) use of monoamine oxidase-A inhibitor (4) Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) (4) Severe hepatic impairment (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sumatriptan tablets are contraindicated in patients with: • Ischemic coronary artery disease (CAD) (angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, or documented silent ischemia) or coronary artery vasospasm, including Prinzmetal’s angina [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] • Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] • History of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) or history of hemiplegic or basilar migraine because these patients are at a higher risk of stroke [s ee Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] • Peripheral vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] • Ischemic bowel disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] • Uncontrolled hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] • Recent use (i.e., within 24 hours) of ergotamine-containing medication, ergot-type medication (such as dihydroergotamine or methysergide), or another 5-hydroxytryptamine 1 (5-HT 1 ) agonist [see Drug Interactions (7.1, 7.3)] • Concurrent administration of a monoamine oxidase (MAO)-A inhibitor or recent (within 2 weeks) use of an MAO-A inhibitor [see Drug Interactions (7.2), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] • Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] • Severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] • History of coronary artery disease or coronary artery vasospasm (4) • Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders (4) • History of stroke, transient ischemic attack, or hemiplegic or basilar migraine (4) • Peripheral vascular disease (4) • Ischemic bowel disease (4) • Uncontrolled hypertension (4) • Recent (within 24 hours) use of another 5-HT 1 agonist (e.g., another triptan) or of an ergotamine-containing medication (4) • Concurrent or recent (past 2 weeks) use of monoamine oxidase-A inhibitor (4) • Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) (4) • Severe hepatic impairment (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sumatriptan injection is contraindicated in patients with: Ischemic coronary artery disease (CAD) (angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, or documented silent ischemia) or coronary artery vasospasm, including Prinzmetal’s angina [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. History of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) or history of hemiplegic or basilar migraine because these patients are at a higher risk of stroke [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Peripheral vascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Ischemic bowel disease [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Uncontrolled hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Recent use (i.e., within 24 hours) of ergotamine-containing medication, ergot-type medication (such as dihydroergotamine or methysergide), or another 5-hydroxytryptamine1 (5-HT1) agonist [ see Drug Interactions (7.1, 7.3) ]. Concurrent administration of a monoamine oxidase (MAO)-A inhibitor or recent (within 2 weeks) use of an MAO-A inhibitor [ see Drug Interactions (7.2), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan injection (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ]. Severe hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. History of coronary artery disease or coronary artery vasospasm ( 4 ) Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders ( 4 ) History of stroke, transient ischemic attack, or hemiplegic or basilar migraine ( 4 ) Peripheral vascular disease ( 4 ) Ischemic bowel disease ( 4 ) Uncontrolled hypertension ( 4 ) Recent (within 24 hours) use of another 5-HT1 agonist (e.g., another triptan) or of an ergotamine-containing medication ( 4 ) Concurrent or recent (past 2 weeks) use of monoamine oxidase-A inhibitor ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan injection (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) ( 4 ) Severe hepatic impairment ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sumatriptan tablets are contraindicated in patients with: • Ischemic coronary artery disease (CAD) (angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, or documented silent ischemia) or coronary artery vasospasm, including Prinzmetal’s angina [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] • Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] • History of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) or history of hemiplegic or basilar migraine because these patients are at a higher risk of stroke [s ee Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] • Peripheral vascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] • Ischemic bowel disease [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] • Uncontrolled hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] • Recent use (i.e., within 24 hours) of ergotamine-containing medication, ergot-type medication (such as dihydroergotamine or methysergide), or another 5-hydroxytryptamine 1 (5-HT 1 ) agonist [see Drug Interactions (7.1, 7.3) ] • Concurrent administration of a monoamine oxidase (MAO)-A inhibitor or recent (within 2 weeks) use of an MAO-A inhibitor [see Drug Interactions (7.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] • Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan tablets (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] • Severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] • History of coronary artery disease or coronary artery vasospasm ( 4 ) • Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders ( 4 ) • History of stroke, transient ischemic attack, or hemiplegic or basilar migraine ( 4 ) • Peripheral vascular disease ( 4 ) • Ischemic bowel disease ( 4 ) • Uncontrolled hypertension ( 4 ) • Recent (within 24 hours) use of another 5-HT 1 agonist (e.g., another triptan) or of an ergotamine-containing medication. ( 4 ) • Concurrent or recent (past 2 weeks) use of monoamine oxidase-A inhibitor. ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan tablets (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen). ( 4 ) • Severe hepatic impairment. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sumatriptan tablets are contraindicated in patients with: • Ischemic coronary artery disease (CAD) (angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, or documented silent ischemia) or coronary artery vasospasm, including Prinzmetal’s angina [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] • Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] • History of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) or history of hemiplegic or basilar migraine because these patients are at a higher risk of stroke [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] • Peripheral vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] • Ischemic bowel disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] • Uncontrolled hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] • Recent use (i.e., within 24 hours) of ergotamine-containing medication, ergot-type medication (such as dihydroergotamine or methysergide), or another 5-hydroxytryptamine 1 (5-HT 1 ) agonist [see Drug Interactions (7.1, 7.3)] • Concurrent administration of a monoamine oxidase (MAO)-A inhibitor or recent (within 2 weeks) use of an MAO-A inhibitor [see Drug Interactions (7.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] • Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] • Severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] • History of coronary artery disease or coronary artery vasospasm (4) • Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders (4) • History of stroke, transient ischemic attack, or hemiplegic or basilar migraine (4) • Peripheral vascular disease (4) • Ischemic bowel disease (4) • Uncontrolled hypertension (4) • Recent (within 24 hours) use of another 5-HT 1 agonist (e.g., another triptan) or of an ergotamine-containing medication. (4) • Concurrent or recent (past 2 weeks) use of monoamine oxidase-A inhibitor. (4) • Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen). (4) • Severe hepatic impairment. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sumatriptan injection is contraindicated in patients with: Ischemic coronary artery disease (CAD) (angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, or documented silent ischemia) or coronary artery vasospasm, including Prinzmetal's angina [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. History of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) or history of hemiplegic or basilar migraine because these patients are at a higher risk of stroke [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. Peripheral vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Ischemic bowel disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Uncontrolled hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. Recent use (i.e., within 24 hours) of ergotamine-containing medication, ergot-type medication (such as dihydroergotamine or methysergide), or another 5-hydroxytryptamine 1 (5-HT 1 ) agonist [see Drug Interactions (7.1, 7.3)]. Concurrent administration of a monoamine oxidase (MAO)-A inhibitor or recent (within 2 weeks) use of an MAO-A inhibitor [see Drug Interactions (7.2), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan injection (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Severe hepatic impairment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. History of coronary artery disease or coronary artery vasospasm. (4) Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders. (4) History of stroke, transient ischemic attack, or hemiplegic or basilar migraine. (4) Peripheral vascular disease. (4) Ischemic bowel disease. (4) Uncontrolled hypertension. (4) Recent (within 24 hours) use of another 5-HT 1 agonist (e.g., another triptan) or of an ergotamine-containing medication. (4) Concurrent or recent (past 2 weeks) use of monoamine oxidase-A inhibitor. (4) Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan injection (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen). (4) Severe hepatic impairment. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sumatriptan tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Ischemic coronary artery disease (CAD) (angina pectoris, history of myocardial infarction, or documented silent ischemia) or coronary artery vasospasm, including Prinzmetal’s angina [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or arrhythmias associated with other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] History of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) or history of hemiplegic or basilar migraine because these patients are at a higher risk of stroke [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Peripheral vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] Ischemic bowel disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] Uncontrolled hypertension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] Recent use (i.e., within 24 hours) of ergotamine-containing medication, ergot-type medication (such as dihydroergotamine or methysergide), or another 5-hydroxytryptamine 1 (5-HT 1 ) agonist [see Drug Interactions (7.1 , 7.3) ] Concurrent administration of a monoamine oxidase (MAO)-A inhibitor or recent (within 2 weeks) use of an MAO-A inhibitor [ see Drug Interactions (7.2) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] Severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] History of coronary artery disease or coronary artery vasospasm ( 4 ) Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or other cardiac accessory conduction pathway disorders ( 4 ) History of stroke, transient ischemic attack, or hemiplegic or basilar migraine ( 4 ) Peripheral vascular disease ( 4 ) Ischemic bowel disease ( 4 ) Uncontrolled hypertension ( 4 ) Recent (within 24 hours) use of another 5-HT 1 agonist (e.g., another triptan) or of an ergotamine-containing medication. ( 4 ) Concurrent or recent (past 2 weeks) use of monoamine oxidase-A inhibitor. ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to sumatriptan (angioedema and anaphylaxis seen). ( 4 ) Severe hepatic impairment.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Ergot-Containing Drugs Ergot-containing drugs have been reported to cause prolonged vasospastic reactions. Because these effects may be additive, use of ergotamine-containing or ergot-type medications (like dihydroergotamine or methysergide) and sumatriptan injection within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated. 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase-A Inhibitors MAO-A inhibitors increase systemic exposure by 2-fold. Therefore, the use of Sumatriptan injection in patients receiving MAO-A inhibitors is contraindicated [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.3 Other 5-HT 1 Agonists Because their vasospastic effects may be additive, coadministration of Sumatriptan injection and other 5-HT 1 agonists (e.g., triptans) within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated. 7.4 Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors /Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during coadministration of triptans and SSRIs, SNRIs, TCAs, and MAO inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Because these effects may be additive, use of ergotamine-containing or ergot-type medications (like dihydroergotamine or methysergide) and TOSYMRA within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated. Therefore, the use of TOSYMRA in patients receiving MAO-A inhibitors is contraindicated [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.3 Other 5-HT 1 Agonists Because their vasospastic effects may be additive, coadministration of TOSYMRA and other 5-HT 1 agonists (e.g., triptans) within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated. 7.4 Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors/Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during co-administration of triptans and SSRIs, SNRIs, TCAs, and MAO inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . Because these effects may be additive, use of ergotamine-containing or ergot-type medications (like dihydroergotamine or methysergide) and sumatriptan tablets within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated. 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase-A Inhibitors MAO‑A inhibitors increase systemic exposure by 7 fold. Therefore, the use of sumatriptan tablets in patients receiving MAO‑A inhibitors is contraindicated [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7.3 Other 5-HT 1 Agonists Because their vasospastic effects may be additive, coadministration of sumatriptan tablets and other 5‑HT 1 agonists (e.g., triptans) within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated. 7.4 Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors/Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during coadministration of triptans and SSRIs, SNRIs, TCAs, and MAO inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] . Therefore, the use of sumatriptan injection in patients receiving MAO-A inhibitors is contraindicated [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 7.3 Other 5-HT 1 Agonists Because their vasospastic effects may be additive, co-administration of sumatriptan injection and other 5-HT 1 agonists (e.g., triptans) within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated. 7.4 Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors/Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during co-administration of triptans and SSRIs, SNRIs, TCAs, and MAO inhibitors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) ]. 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase-A Inhibitors MAO-A inhibitors increase systemic exposure by 7-fold. Therefore, the use of sumatriptan tablets in patients receiving MAO-A inhibitors is contraindicated [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.3 Other 5-HT 1 Agonists Because their vasospastic effects may be additive, co-administration of sumatriptan tablets and other 5-HT 1 agonists (e.g., triptans) within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated. Therefore, the use of sumatriptan tablets in patients receiving MAO-A inhibitors is contraindicated [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7.4 Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors/Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during co-administration of triptans and SSRIs, SNRIs, TCAs, and MAO inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] . Therefore, the use of sumatriptan injection in patients receiving MAO-A inhibitors is contraindicated [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7.3 Other 5-HT1 Agonists Because their vasospastic effects may be additive, coadministration of sumatriptan injection and other 5-HT 1 agonists (e.g., triptans) within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated. 7.3 Other 5-HT 1 Agonists Because their vasospastic effects may be additive, coadministration of sumatriptan tablets and other 5-HT 1 agonists (e.g., triptans) within 24 hours of each other is contraindicated. 7.4 Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors/Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome Cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during coadministration of triptans and SSRIs, SNRIs, TCAs, and MAO inhibitors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] .

=== AIR ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: relief of allergic rhinitis, improvement of bronchial function, cough relief Purpose Antiseptic
Indications: Take 1 pouch (3g) three time a day after a meal Use Decreases bacteria on hands.
Dosage: for oral use only Directions Rub a dime sized drop into hands.
Warnings: If you have an unusual or allergic constitution, check the ingredients before consuming. Warnings Flammable: Keep away from flame or high heat. For external use only.

=== ARSENIC TRIOXIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: PURPOSE: May temporarily relieve sinus congestion, runny nose, and sneezing.** **Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. Not FDA evaluated. OTC - PURPOSE SECTION Formulated for symptoms associated with food and environmental allergens such as congestion, swollen glands, runny nose, cough, rashes and stomach upset. PURPOSE: Arsenicum Album – Stomach Support, Calcarea Carbonica - Vomiting, Carduus Marianus – Stomach Pain, Ceanothus Americanus – Spleen Support, Cinchona Officinalis – Loss of Appetite, Digitalis Purpurea – Abdominal Bloating, Ignatia Amara – Loose Stools, Kali Bichromicum – Fluid Retention, Lycopodium Clavatum – Stomach Support, Phosphorus – Spleen Support, Plumbum Metallicum - Vomiting, Pulsatilla (Pratensis) – Stomach Pain, Ranunculus Bulbosus – Loss of Appetite, Veratrum Viride – Abdominal Bloating Uses : Temporarily relieves symptoms associated with allergic responses to animals.** PURPOSE: Arsenicum Album - Nausea, Bryonia (Alba) - Vomiting, Cadmium Sulphuratum – Nausea with Pain, Cocculus Indicus – Nausea of Pregnancy, Colchicum Autumnale – Nausea with Headache, Conium Maculatum – Nausea with Vertigo, Cyclamen Europaeum - Nausea, Euphorbia Corollata - Vomiting, Ferrum Metallicum – Nausea with Pain, Ipecacuanha – Nausea of Pregnancy, Iris Versicolor – Nausea with Headache, Lac Defloratum – Nausea with Vertigo, Lacticum Acidum - Nausea, Nux Vomica - Vomiting, Petroleum – Nausea with Pain, Pulsatilla (Pratensis) – Nausea with Pregnancy, Sepia – Nausea with Headache, Tabacum – Nausea with Vertigo, Theridion - Nausea, Zingiber Officinale - Vomiting Active ingredients Purpose "X" indicates a homeopathic dilution. For more information visit: www.hevertusa.com Arsenicum album 6X Relief of discomfort associated with lymphatic swelling and edema Clematis 4X Conium 6X Lachesis 8X Mercurius bijodatus 8X Phytolacca 4X Rhus toxicodendron 6X Scrophularia nodosa, herba 3X Sulfur 4X USES: Temporarily relieves simple nervous tension.** USES: Temporarily relieves occasional sleeplessness.** PURPOSE: May temporarily relieve symptoms of fatigue, chills, and chronic swelling of lymph nodes. ** **Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence.
Indications: INDICATIONS: May temporarily relieve sinus congestion, runny nose, and sneezing.** **Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. Not FDA evaluated. INDICATIONS & USAGE SECTION Formulated for symptoms associated with food and environmental allergens such as congestion, swollen glands, runny nose, cough, rashes and stomach upset. USES: • For the temporary relief of symptoms including: • stomach support • vomiting • spleen support • stomach pain • loss of appetite • loose stools • abdominal bloating • fluid retention These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. They have not been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration. Uses : Temporarily relieves symptoms associated with allergic responses to animals. USES: • For the temporary relief of the symptoms including: • nausea with pain • nausea with pregnancy • nausea • nausea with vertigo • vomiting • nausea with headache These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. Uses For temporary relief of discomfort associated with lymphatic swelling and edema. Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. ​USES: ​Temporarly relieves simple nervous tension.** USES: Temporarily relieves occasional sleeplessness.** INDICATIONS: May temporarily relieve symptoms of fatigue, chills, and chronic swelling of lymph nodes. ** **Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence.
Dosage: DIRECTIONS: Adults and children 5 to 10 drops orally, 3 times daily or as otherwise directed by a health care professional. If symptoms persist for more than 7 days, consult your health care professional. Consult a physician for use in children under 12 years of age. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION Directions: Ages 12 and up take 6 drops by mouth (ages 0 to 11, give 3 drops) as needed or directed by a health professional. Sensitive persons begin with 1 drop and gradually increase to full dose. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION Directions: Ages 12 and up take 6 pellets (ages 0 to 11, give 3 pellets) as needed or directed by a health professional. Under age 2, crush/dissolve pellets in purified water. Sensitive persons begin with 1 pellet and gradually increase to full dose. DIRECTIONS: 1-10 drops under the tongue, 3 times a day or as directed by a health professional. Directions: Adults & children above 12 years: 10 drops orally 3 times daily, or as directed by a health care professional. Directions Adults and children over 12 years of age: Take 20 drops in water 3 times daily. Do not use for children under 1 year of age. DIECTIONS: Adults & children above 12 years: 10 drops orally 3 times daily, or as directed by a health care professional.
Warnings: WARNINGS: If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Do not use if tamper evident seal is broken or missing. Store in a cool, dry place. WARNINGS SECTION WARNINGS: Keep out of reach of children. Do not use if tamper-evident seal is broken or missing. If symptoms worsen or persist for more than a few days, consult a doctor. If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a doctor before use. In case of overdose, contact a physician or Poison Control Center right away. Tamper Evident: Sealed for your protection. Do not use if seal is broken or missing. WARNINGS : Consult a physician for use in children under 12 years of age. IF PREGNANT OR BREAST-FEEDING , ask a health care professional before use. KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN . In case of overdose (or accidental ingestion) get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For oral use only. Chronically enlarged lymph nodes can be the sign of different diseases. Therefore, consult a doctor in order to clarify the underlying disease before using this medicine. Also consult a doctor promptly in case of acute signs of inflammation (redness, heat, swelling, pain and dysfunction) and fever or enlargement of the lymph nodes during treatment. Do not use if you are allergic to Rhus toxicodendron or other plants from the cashew family Stop use and ask a doctor if you suffer from thyroid disease or symptoms persist for more than 7 days, worsen or new symptoms occur. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. WARNINGS: Consult a physician for use in chlidren under 12 years of age. IF PRAGNANT OR BREAST-FEEDING, ask a health care professional before use. KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN. In case of overdose (or accidential ingestion) get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. WARNINGS: IF PREGNANT OR BREAST-FEEDING , ask a health care professional before use.

=== CARBON DIOXIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: PURPOSE: For the temporary relief of symptoms related to pollution such as nausea, fatigue, head discomfort and abdominal discomfort.** **These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. They have not been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration.
Indications: INDICATIONS: For the temporary relief of symptoms related to pollution such as nausea, fatigue, head discomfort and abdominal discomfort.** **These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. They have not been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration.
Dosage: DIRECTIONS: 1-10 drops under the tongue, 3 times a day or as directed by a health professional. Consult a physician for use in children under 12 years of age.
Warnings: WARNINGS: Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, contact a physician or Poison Control Center right away. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Tamper Seal: "Sealed for Your Protection." Do not use if seal is broken or missing.

=== DESMOPRESSIN ACETATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Central Diabetes Insipidus Desmopressin acetate tablets are indicated as antidiuretic replacement therapy in the management of central diabetes insipidus and for the management of the temporary polyuria and polydipsia following head trauma or surgery in the pituitary region. Desmopressin acetate is ineffective for the treatment of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. Patients were selected for therapy based on the diagnosis by means of the water deprivation test, the hypertonic saline infusion test, and/or response to antidiuretic hormone. Continued response to desmopressin acetate can be monitored by measuring urine volume and osmolality. Primary Nocturnal Enuresis Desmopressin acetate tablets are indicated for the management of primary nocturnal enuresis. Desmopressin acetate may be used alone or as an adjunct to behavioral conditioning or other non-pharmacologic intervention. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Desmopressin acetate injection is a vasopressin analog used for: Central Diabetes Insipidus - as antidiuretic replacement therapy in the management of central (cranial) diabetes insipidus and for the management of the temporary polyuria and polydipsia following head trauma or surgery in the pituitary region. ( 1.1 ) Hemophilia A- for patients with factor VIII coagulant activity levels greater than 5% to maintain hemostasis during surgical procedures and postoperatively or reduce bleeding with episodes of spontaneous or traumatic injuries such as hemarthroses, intramuscular hematomas, or mucosal bleeding. ( 1.2 ) von Willebrand’s disease (Type I) - for patients with mild to moderate disease with factor VIII levels greater than 5% to maintain hemostasis during surgical procedures or traumatic injuries such as hemarthroses, intramuscular hematomas, or mucosal bleeding. ( 1.3 ) Limitations of Use Desmopressin acetate is ineffective and not indicated for the treatment of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. ( 1.3 ) von Willebrand’s disease (severe Type I) - not indicated for the treatment of patients with severe Type I von Willebrand’s disease and when there is evidence of an abnormal molecular form of factor VIII antigen. ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Central Diabetes Insipidus Desmopressin acetate injection is indicated as antidiuretic replacement therapy in the management of central (cranial) diabetes insipidus and for the management of the temporary polyuria and polydipsia following head trauma or surgery in the pituitary region. Limitations of Use: Desmopressin acetate is ineffective and not indicated for the treatment of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. 1.2 Hemophilia A Desmopressin acetate injection is indicated for patients with hemophilia A with factor VIII coagulant activity levels greater than 5% without factor VIII antibodies to: Maintain hemostasis during surgical procedures and postoperatively Reduce bleeding with episodes of spontaneous or traumatic injuries such as hemarthroses, intramuscular hematomas, or mucosal bleeding. 1.3 von Willebrand’s Disease (Type I) Desmopressin acetate injection is indicated for patients with mild to moderate von Willebrand’s disease (Type I) with factor VIII levels greater than 5% to: Maintain hemostasis during surgical procedures and postoperatively Reduce bleeding with episodes of spontaneous or traumatic injuries such as hemarthroses, intramuscular hematomas, or mucosal bleeding. Limitations of Use Desmopressin acetate is not indicated for the treatment of severe von Willebrand’s disease (Type I) and when there is evidence of an abnormal molecular form of factor VIII antigen [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. ( 1.1 ) Hemophilia A - for patients with factor VIII coagulant activity levels greater than 5% to maintain hemostasis during surgical procedures and postoperatively or reduce bleeding with episodes of spontaneous or traumatic injuries such as hemarthroses, intramuscular hematomas, or mucosal bleeding. ( 1.2 ) von Willebrand's disease (Type I) - for patients with mild to moderate disease with factor VIII levels greater than 5% to maintain hemostasis during surgical procedures or traumatic injuries such as hemarthroses, intramuscular hematomas, or mucosal bleeding. ( 1.3 ) von Willebrand's disease (severe Type I) - not indicated for the treatment of patients with severe Type I von Willebrand's disease and when there is evidence of an abnormal molecular form of factor VIII antigen. Limitations of Use Desmopressin acetate is ineffective and not indicated for the treatment of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. 1.3 von Willebrand's Disease (Type I) Desmopressin acetate injection is indicated for patients with mild to moderate von Willebrand's disease (Type I) with factor VIII levels greater than 5% to: Maintain hemostasis during surgical procedures and postoperatively Reduce bleeding with episodes of spontaneous or traumatic injuries such as hemarthroses, intramuscular hematomas, or mucosal bleeding. Limitations of Use Desmopressin acetate is not indicated for the treatment of severe von Willebrand's disease (Type I) and when there is evidence of an abnormal molecular form of factor VIII antigen [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Limitations of Use Desmopressin acetate is not indicated for the treatment of severe von Willebrand’s disease (Type I) and when there is evidence of an abnormal molecular form of factor VIII antigen [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hemophilia A: Desmopressin Acetate Injection 4 mcg/mL is indicated for patients with hemophilia A with factor VIII coagulant activity levels greater than 5%. Desmopressin Acetate Injection will often maintain hemostasis in patients with hemophilia A during surgical procedures and postoperatively when administered 30 minutes prior to scheduled procedure. Desmopressin Acetate Injection will also stop bleeding in hemophilia A patients with episodes of spontaneous or trauma-induced injuries such as hemarthroses, intramuscular hematomas or mucosal bleeding. Desmopressin Acetate Injection is not indicated for the treatment of hemophilia A with factor VIII coagulant activity levels equal to or less than 5%, or for the treatment of hemophilia B, or in patients who have factor VIII antibodies. In certain clinical situations, it may be justified to try Desmopressin Acetate Injection in patients with factor VIII levels between 2% to 5%; however, these patients should be carefully monitored. von Willebrands Disease (Type I): Desmopressin Acetate Injection 4 mcg/mL is indicated for patients with mild to moderate classic von Willebrands disease (Type I) with factor VIII levels greater than 5%. Desmopressin Acetate Injection will often maintain hemostasis in patients with mild to moderate von Willebrands disease during surgical procedures and postoperatively when administered 30 minutes prior to the scheduled procedure. Desmopressin Acetate Injection will usually stop bleeding in mild to moderate von Willebrands patients with episodes of spontaneous or trauma-induced injuries such as hemarthroses, intramuscular hematomas or mucosal bleeding. Those von Willebrands disease patients who are least likely to respond are those with severe homozygous von Willebrands disease with factor VIII coagulant activity and factor VIII von Willebrand factor antigen levels less than 1%. Other patients may respond in a variable fashion depending on the type of molecular defect they have. Bleeding time and factor VIII coagulant activity, ristocetin cofactor activity, and von Willebrand factor antigen should be checked during administration of Desmopressin Acetate Injection to ensure that adequate levels are being achieved. Desmopressin Acetate Injection is not indicated for the treatment of severe classic von Willebrands disease (Type I) and when there is evidence of an abnormal molecular form of factor VIII antigen. (See WARNINGS . ) Diabetes Insipidus: Desmopressin Acetate Injection 4 mcg/mL is indicated as antidiuretic replacement therapy in the management of central (cranial) diabetes insipidus and for the management of the temporary polyuria and polydipsia following head trauma or surgery in the pituitary region. Desmopressin Acetate Injection is ineffective for the treatment of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. Desmopressin Acetate Injection is also available as an intranasal preparation. However, this means of delivery can be compromised by a variety of factors that can make nasal insufflation ineffective or inappropriate. These include poor intranasal absorption, nasal congestion and blockage, nasal discharge, atrophy of nasal mucosa, and severe atrophic rhinitis. Intranasal delivery may be inappropriate where there is an impaired level of consciousness. In addition, cranial surgical procedures, such as transsphenoidal hypophysectomy, create situations where an alternative route of administration is needed as in cases of nasal packing or recovery from surgery. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Desmopressin nasal spray is indicated as antidiuretic replacement therapy in the management of central diabetes insipidus in adults and pediatric patients 4 years of age and older Limitations of Use: Desmopressin nasal spray is not indicated for: Treatment of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, Treatment of primary nocturnal enuresis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )], Use in patients with conditions that compromise the intranasal route of administration (e.g., severe nasal congestion and blockage, nasal mucosa atrophy, severe atrophic rhinitis, recent nasal surgery such as transsphenoidal hypophysectomy) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Use in patients with an impaired level of consciousness, Use in patients requiring doses less than 10 mcg or doses that are not multiples of 10 mcg [see Dosage Forms and Strengths ( 3 )]. Desmopressin nasal spray is a vasopressin analog indicated as antidiuretic replacement therapy in the management of central diabetes insipidus for adults and pediatric patients 4 years of age and older ( 1 ) Limitations of Use: Desmopressin nasal spray is not indicated for: Treatment of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus ( 1 ) Treatment of primary nocturnal enuresis ( 1 , 5.1 ) Use in patients with conditions that compromise intranasal route of administration ( 1 , 5.2 ) Use in patients with an impaired level of consciousness ( 1 ) Use in patients requiring doses less than 10 mcg or doses that are not multiples of 10 mcg ( 1 , 3 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Central Diabetes Insipidus: Desmopressin acetate tablets are indicated as antidiuretic replacement therapy in the management of central diabetes insipidus and for the management of the temporary polyuria and polydipsia following head trauma or surgery in the pituitary region. Primary Nocturnal Enuresis: Desmopressin acetate tablets are indicated for the management of primary nocturnal enuresis. ( 1.3 ) Limitations of Use Desmopressin Acetate Injection is ineffective and not indicated for the treatment of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Central Diabetes Insipidus The dosage of desmopressin acetate tablets must be determined for each individual patient and adjusted according to the diurnal pattern of response. Response should be estimated by two parameters: adequate duration of sleep and adequate, not excessive, water turnover. Patients previously on intranasal desmopressin acetate therapy should begin tablet therapy twelve hours after the last intranasal dose. During the initial dose titration period, patients should be observed closely and appropriate safety parameters measured to assure adequate response. Patients should be monitored at regular intervals during the course of desmopressin acetate tablet therapy to assure adequate antidiuretic response. Modifications in dosage regimen should be implemented as necessary to assure adequate water turnover. Fluid restriction should be observed. (See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use and Geriatric Use .) Adults and Children It is recommended that patients be started on doses of 0.05 mg (1/2 of the 0.1 mg tablet) two times a day and individually adjusted to their optimum therapeutic dose. Most patients in clinical trials found that the optimal dosage range is 0.1 mg to 0.8 mg daily, administered in divided doses. Each dose should be separately adjusted for an adequate diurnal rhythm of water turnover. Total daily dosage should be increased or decreased in the range of 0.1 mg to 1.2 mg divided into two or three daily doses as needed to obtain adequate antidiuresis. See Pediatric Use subsection for special considerations when administering desmopressin acetate to pediatric diabetes insipidus patients. Geriatric Use This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function. Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and it may be useful to monitor renal function. (See CLINCAL PHARMACOLOGY, Human Pharmacokinetics , CONTRAINDICATIONS , and PRECAUTIONS, Geriatric Use .) Primary Nocturnal Enuresis The dosage of desmopressin acetate tablets must be determined for each individual patient and adjusted according to response. Patients previously on intranasal desmopressin acetate therapy can begin tablet therapy the night following (24 hours after) the last intranasal dose. The recommended initial dose for patients age 6 years and older is 0.2 mg at bedtime. The dose may be titrated up to 0.6 mg to achieve the desired response. Fluid restriction should be observed, and fluid intake should be limited to a minimum from 1 hour before desmopressin administration, until the next morning, or at least 8 hours after administration. (See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use and Geriatric Use .) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Diabetes Insipidus: The daily dose is 2 mcg to 4 mcg administered as one or two divided doses by subcutaneous or intravenous injection. The dosage must be determined for each patient and adjusted according to the pattern of response. ( 2.1 ) Hemophilia A and von Willebrand’s Disease (Type I): 0.3 mcg/kg (to a maximum of 20 mcg) administered by intravenous infusion. Dilute dose as appropriate. ( 2.1 ) See Full Prescribing Information for instructions on reconstitution, preparation, and administration ( 2 ). 2.1 Pretreatment Testing and On-Treatment Monitoring Diabetes Insipidus Prior to treatment with desmopressin acetate, assess serum sodium, urine volume and osmolality. Intermittently during treatment, assess serum sodium, urine volume and osmolality or plasma osmolality. Hemophilia A Prior to treatment with desmopressin acetate injection, verify that factor VIII coagulant activity levels are >5% and exclude the presence of factor VIII autoantibodies. Also assess serum sodium and aPTT prior to treatment. In certain clinical situations, it may be justified to try desmopressin acetate in patients with factor VIII levels between 2% to 5%; however, these patients should be carefully monitored. von Willebrand’s Disease (Type I) Prior to treatment with desmopressin acetate injection, verify that factor VIII coagulant activity levels are >5% and exclude severe von Willebrand’s disease (Type I) and presence of abnormal molecular form of factor VIII antigen. During treatment with desmopressin acetate injection, assess serum sodium, bleeding time, factor VIII coagulant activity, ristocetin cofactor activity, and von Willebrand antigen to ensure that adequate levels are being achieved. For All Patients Receiving Repeated Doses: Restrict free water intake and monitor for hyponatremia. Ensure that serum sodium is normal prior to initiating or resuming treatment with desmopressin acetate injection. 2.2 Recommended Dosage Initiate fluid restriction during treatment with desmopressin acetate injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.4, 8.5)]. Diabetes Insipidus: Treatment naïve patients: The recommended starting daily dosage is 2 mcg to 4 mcg administered as one or two divided doses by subcutaneous or intravenous injection. Do not dilute desmopressin acetate injection for the Diabetes Insipidus population. The morning and evening doses should be separately adjusted for an adequate diurnal rhythm of water turnover. Adjust dose based upon response to treatment estimated by two parameters: adequate duration of sleep and adequate, not excessive, water turnover. Patients changing from intranasal desmopressin: The recommended starting dose of desmopressin acetate injection is 1/10 th the daily maintenance intranasal dose administered by subcutaneous or intravenous injection as one or two divided doses Hemophilia A and von Willebrand’s Disease (Type I): The recommended dosage is 0.3 mcg/kg actual body weight (to a maximum of 20 mcg) administered by intravenous infusion over 15 minutes to 30 minutes. If used preoperatively, administer 30 minutes prior to the procedure. If used to reduce spontaneous or traumatic bleeding, doses may be repeated after 8 hours to 12 hours and once daily thereafter, if needed, based upon clinical condition and von Willebrand factor and factor VIII levels. The necessity for repeat administration of desmopressin acetate or use of any blood products for hemostasis should be determined by laboratory response as well as the clinical condition of the patient. Tachyphylaxis (lessening of response) with repeated administration (i.e., given more frequently than every 48 hours) may occur. The initial response is reproducible if desmopressin acetate is administered every 2 to 3 days. 2.3 Preparation and Administration for Patients with Hemophilia A and von Willebrand’s Disease (Type I) Prepare the solution for infusion using aseptic technique. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Withdraw the necessary volume of desmopressin acetate injection from the vial and dilute by adding to the infusion bag of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP per Table 1. Dilute desmopressin acetate injection in sterile 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP and infuse slowly over 15 minutes to 30 minutes. Discard unused portion. The volume of diluent is weight-based. See Table 1 for volume of diluent to use. Table 1: Volume of Diluent Required Patient Weight Volume of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP for dilution 10 kg or less 10 mL More than 10 kg 50 mL Monitor blood pressure and pulse during infusion. 2.4 Switching Between Desmopressin Acetate Formulations Desmopressin acetate is also available as nasal spray and tablet dosage forms. When switching between formulations, the below text is meant as guidance for starting dose. However, dose should always be titrated individually according to the diuresis (antidiuretic response) and electrolyte status (serum sodium) of the patient. When switching from desmopressin acetate nasal spray to desmopressin acetate injection, the starting dose is one-tenth times the desmopressin acetate nasal spray dose. When switching from desmopressin acetate tablets to desmopressin acetate injection, titrate dose individually according to the diuresis (antidiuretic response) and electrolyte status (serum sodium) due to the large variability in both PK and PD. Monitor patients closely during the initial dose titration period. ( 2.1 ) Hemophilia A and von Willebrand's Disease (Type I): 0.3 mcg/kg (to a maximum of 20 mcg) administered by intravenous infusion. von Willebrand's Disease (Type I) Prior to treatment with desmopressin acetate injection, verify that factor VIII coagulant activity levels are >5% and exclude severe von Willebrand's disease (Type I) and presence of abnormal molecular form of factor VIII antigen. 2.2 Recommended Dosage Initiate fluid restriction during treatment with desmopressin acetate injection [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 , 8.5 )]. Diabetes Insipidus Treatment naïve patients: The recommended starting daily dosage is 2 mcg to 4 mcg administered as one or two divided doses by subcutaneous or intravenous injection. Patients changing from intranasal desmopressin: The recommended starting dose of desmopressin acetate injection is 1/10 th the daily maintenance intranasal dose administered by subcutaneous or intravenous injection as one or two divided doses. Hemophilia A and von Willebrand's Disease (Type I) The recommended dosage is 0.3 mcg/kg actual body weight (to a maximum of 20 mcg) administered by intravenous infusion over 15 minutes to 30 minutes. 2.3 Preparation and Administration for Patients with Hemophilia A and von Willebrand's Disease (Type I) Prepare the solution for infusion using aseptic technique. Withdraw the necessary volume of desmopressin acetate injection from the vial and dilute by adding to the infusion bag of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP per Table 1 . ( 2.1 ) See Full Prescribing Information for instructions on reconstitution, preparation, and administration. ( 2 ) 2.1 Pretreatment Testing and On-Treatment Monitoring Diabetes Insipidus Prior to treatment with desmopressin acetate, assess serum sodium, urine volume and osmolality. 2.2 Recommended Dosage Initiate fluid restriction during treatment with desmopressin acetate injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.4 , 8.5) ]. Hemophilia A and von Willebrand’s Disease (Type I): The recommended dosage is 0.3 mcg/kg actual body weight (to a maximum of 20 mcg) administered by intravenous infusion over 15 minutes to 30 minutes. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hemophilia A and von Willebrand’s Disease (Type I): Desmopressin Acetate Injection 4 mcg/mL is administered as an intravenous infusion at a dose of 0.3 mcg Desmopressin Acetate Injection/kg body weight diluted in sterile physiological saline and infused slowly over 15 to 30 minutes. In adults and children weighing more than 10 kg, 50 mL of diluent is recommended; in children weighing 10 kg or less, 10 mL of diluent is recommended. Blood pressure and pulse should be monitored during infusion. If Desmopressin Acetate Injection 4 mcg/mL is used preoperatively, it should be administered 30 minutes prior to the scheduled procedure. The necessity for repeat administration of Desmopressin Acetate Injection or use of any blood products for hemostasis should be determined by laboratory response as well as the clinical condition of the patient. The tendency toward tachyphylaxis (lessening of response) with repeated administration given more frequently than every 48 hours should be considered in treating each patient. (See WARNINGS, PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use and Geriatric Use.) Diabetes Insipidus: This formulation is administered subcutaneously or by direct intravenous injection. Desmopressin Acetate Injection 4 mcg/mL dosage must be determined for each patient and adjusted according to the pattern of response. The usual dosage range in adults is 0.5 mL (2.0 mcg) to 1 mL (4.0 mcg) daily, administered intravenously or subcutaneously, usually in two divided doses. For patients who have been controlled on intranasal Desmopressin Acetate Injection and who must be switched to the injection form, either because of poor intranasal absorption or because of the need for surgery, the comparable antidiuretic dose of the injection is about one-tenth the intranasal dose. (See WARNINGS, PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use and Geriatric Use.) Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. Geriatric Use: This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Human Pharmacokinetics, CONTRAINDICATIONS , and PRECAUTIONS , Geriatric Use.) Directions for use of One Point Cut (OPC) Ampules for Desmopressin Acetate Injection: 1. Use aseptic technique to clean ampule. Gently tap the top of the ampule to assist the flow of the solution from the upper portion of the ampule to the lower portion. 2. Locate the blue dot on the upper portion of the ampule. Below this dot is a small score on the neck of the ampule. Hold the ampule with the blue dot facing away from you . 3. Cover the vial with an appropriate wipe. Apply pressure to the top and bottom portions of the ampule to snap the ampule open away from you. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For intranasal use only ( 2.1 ) Instruct patients to prime pump prior to use ( 2.1 ) Adults : 10 mcg to 40 mcg daily (either as a single dose or divided into two or three daily doses) ( 2.2 ) Pediatrics: 10 mcg once daily into one nostril up to 30 mcg once daily (or 30 mcg divided as 20 mcg during the morning and 10 mcg at night) ( 2.2 ) See the Full Prescribing Information for recommendations for switching between desmopressin acetate formulations ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Administer desmopressin nasal spray by intranasal use only. Instruct patients about appropriate fluid restriction during desmopressin nasal spray treatment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Must prime the spray pump prior to the first use. Instruct patients to: Prime pump by pressing down on pump four times (if the spray pump is not used for one week, re-prime the pump by pressing down on the pump once). Discard desmopressin nasal spray after 50 sprays since the amount delivered thereafter may be substantially less than the recommended dosage. 2.2 Recommended Dosage The use of desmopressin nasal spray is not indicated for patients who require less than 10 mcg doses or doses that are not multiples of 10 mcg because the spray pump can only deliver doses of 10 mcg [see Indications and Usage ( 1 )] . If other doses are required, use another desmopressin acetate product. Individualize the dosage of desmopressin nasal spray for each patient with particular attention in pediatric and elderly patients and adjust according to the diurnal pattern of response to limit nocturia and to ensure fluid intake with respect to urine output is not excessive [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Monitor continued response to desmopressin nasal spray by urine volume and osmolality to ensure adequate diuresis to limit the risk of hyponatremia, and include measurements of serum sodium and plasma osmolality as needed. Adults The recommended dosage in adults is 10 mcg once daily into one nostril up to 40 mcg once daily (or 40 mcg divided into two or three daily doses). If administered more than once a day, adjust for an adequate diurnal rhythm of urine output. Pediatric Patients For pediatric patients requiring doses less than 10 mcg, desmopressin nasal spray is not indicated. For pediatric patients 4 years of age and older, the recommended starting dosage of desmopressin nasal spray is 10 mcg once daily into one nostril. The dose can be titrated up to 30 mcg once daily (or 30 mcg divided into two daily doses, typically with 20 mcg given in the morning and 10 mcg given at nighttime). Because administration of desmopressin acetate can be associated with decreased responsiveness with prolonged use, consider increasing the dosage of desmopressin nasal spray if patients demonstrate decreased response over a long period of time. 2.3 Switching Between Desmopressin Acetate Formulations When switching from the desmopressin acetate injection to desmopressin nasal spray, administer 10 times the amount of desmopressin acetate, rounding down to the nearest 10 mcg. When switching from the desmopressin acetate tablets to desmopressin nasal spray individual dose titration is required because intranasal desmopressin is approximately 10 to 40 fold more potent than oral (tablet) desmopressin. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Central Diabetes Insipidus: The dosage of desmopressin acetate tablets must be determined for each individual patient and adjusted according to the diurnal pattern of response. Patients should be monitored at regular intervals during the course of desmopressin acetate tablets therapy to assure adequate antidiuretic response. (See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use and Geriatric Use .) Adults and Children: It is recommended that patients be started on doses of 0.05 mg (1/2 of the 0.1 mg tablet) two times a day and individually adjusted to their optimum therapeutic dose. (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Human Pharmacokinetics , CONTRAINDICATIONS , and PRECAUTIONS , Geriatric Use .) Primary Nocturnal Enuresis: The dosage of desmopressin acetate tablets must be determined for each individual patient and adjusted according to response. (See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use and Geriatric Use .) In certain clinical situations, it may be justified to try Desmopressin Acetate Injection in patients with factor VIII levels between 2% to 5%; however, these patients should be carefully monitored. The initial response is reproducible if Desmopressin Acetate Injection is administered every 2 to 3 days. 2.4 Switching Between Desmopressin Acetate Formulations Desmopressin acetate is available as nasal spray and tablet dosage forms.
Warnings: WARNINGS Very rare cases of hyponatremia have been reported from world-wide postmarketing experience in patients treated desmopressin acetate. Desmopressin acetate is a potent antidiuretic which, when administered, may lead to water intoxication and/or hyponatremia. Unless properly diagnosed and treated hyponatremia can be fatal. Therefore, fluid restriction is recommended and should be discussed with the patient and/or guardian. Careful medical supervision is required. When desmopressin acetate tablets are administered, in particular in pediatric and geriatric patients, fluid intake should be adjusted downward to decrease the potential occurrence of water intoxication and hyponatremia. (See PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use and Geriatric Use .) All patients receiving desmopressin acetate tablets therapy should be observed for the following signs of symptoms associated with hyponatremia: headache, nausea/vomiting, decreased serum sodium, weight gain, restlessness, fatigue, lethargy, disorientation, depressed reflexes, loss of appetite, irritability, muscle weakness, muscle spasms or cramps and abnormal mental status such as hallucinations, decreased consciousness and confusion. Severe symptoms may include one or a combination of the following: seizure, coma and/or respiratory arrest. Particular attention should be paid to the possibility of the rare occurrence of an extreme decrease in plasma osmolality that may result in seizures which could lead to coma. Desmopressin acetate tablets should be used with caution in patients with habitual or psychogenic polydipsia who may be more likely to drink excessive amounts of water, putting them at greater risk of hyponatremia. WARNINGS 1. Very rare cases of hyponatremia have been reported from world-wide postmarketing experience in patients treated with Desmopressin Acetate Injection (desmopressin acetate). Desmopressin Acetate Injection is a potent antidiuretic which, when administered, may lead to water intoxication and/or hyponatremia. Therefore, fluid restriction is recommended and should be discussed with the patient and/ or guardian. 2. When Desmopressin Acetate Injection is administered to patients who do not have need of antidiuretic hormone for its antidiuretic effect, in particular in pediatric and geriatric patients, fluid intake should be adjusted downward to decrease the potential occurrence of water intoxication and hyponatremia. (See PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use and Geriatric Use.) All patients receiving Desmopressin Acetate Injection therapy should be observed for the following signs or symptoms associated with hyponatremia: headache, nausea/vomiting, decreased serum sodium, weight gain, restlessness, fatigue, lethargy, disorientation, depressed reflexes, loss of appetite, irritability, muscle weakness, muscle spasms or cramps and abnormal mental status such as hallucinations, decreased consciousness and confusion. 3. Desmopressin Acetate Injection should not be used to treat patients with Type IIB von Willebrand’s disease since platelet aggregation may be induced. 4. Desmopressin Acetate Injection should be used with caution in patients with habitual or psychogenic polydipsia who may be more likely to drink excessive amounts of water, putting them at greater risk of hyponatremia. 1. Very rare cases of hyponatremia have been reported from world-wide postmarketing experience in patients treated with desmopressin acetate. (See PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use and Geriatric Use .) All patients receiving desmopressin acetate therapy should be observed for the following signs of symptoms associated with hyponatremia: headache, nausea/vomiting, decreased serum sodium, weight gain, restlessness, fatigue, lethargy, disorientation, depressed reflexes, loss of appetite, irritability, muscle weakness, muscle spasms or cramps and abnormal mental status such as hallucinations, decreased consciousness and confusion. Desmopressin acetate should be used with caution in patients with habitual or psychogenic polydipsia who may be more likely to drink excessive amounts of water, putting them at greater risk of hyponatremia.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Desmopressin acetate tablets are contraindicated in individuals with known hypersensitivity to desmopressin acetate or to any of the components of desmopressin acetate tablets. Desmopressin acetate tablets are contraindicated in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (defined as a creatinine clearance below 50mL/min). Desmopressin acetate is contraindicated in patients with hyponatremia or a history of hyponatremia. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Desmopressin acetate injection is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to desmopressin acetate or to any of the components of desmopressin acetate injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4), Adverse Reactions (6), Description (11)]. Desmopressin acetate injection is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions due to an increased risk of hyponatremia: Moderate to severe renal impairment defined as a creatinine clearance below 50 mL/min [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5, 8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Hyponatremia or a history of hyponatremia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1), Drug Interactions (7.1)], Use in Specific Populations (8.4, 8.5)]. Known or suspected syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) secretion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . Polydipsia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . Concomitant use with loop diuretics [see Boxed Warning]. Concomitant use with systemic or inhaled glucocorticoids [see Boxed Warning] . During illnesses that can cause fluid or electrolyte imbalance, such as gastroenteritis, salt-wasting nephropathies, or systemic infection [see Boxed Warning] . Desmopressin acetate injection is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions because fluid retention increases the risk of worsening the underlying condition: Heart failure Uncontrolled hypertension Known hypersensitivity to desmopressin acetate or to any of the components ( 4 ) Moderate to severe renal impairment defined as a creatinine clearance below 50 mL/min ( 4 ) Hyponatremia or a history of hyponatremia ( 4 ) Known or suspected syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) secretion ( 4 ) Polydipsia ( 4 ) Concomitant use with loop diuretics or systemic or inhaled glucocorticoids ( 4 ) During illnesses that can cause fluid or electrolyte imbalance ( 4 ) Heart failure or uncontrolled hypertension ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Desmopressin acetate injection is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to desmopressin acetate or to any of the components of desmopressin acetate injection [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6 ), Description ( 11 )]. Desmopressin acetate injection is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions due to an increased risk of hyponatremia: Moderate to severe renal impairment defined as a creatinine clearance below 50 mL/min [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 , 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Hyponatremia or a history of hyponatremia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 , 8.5 )]. Known or suspected syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) secretion [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Polydipsia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Concomitant use with loop diuretics [see Boxed Warning ]. Concomitant use with systemic or inhaled glucocorticoids [see Boxed Warning ] . During illnesses that can cause fluid or electrolyte imbalance, such as gastroenteritis, salt-wasting nephropathies, or systemic infection [see Boxed Warning ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Desmopressin acetate injection is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to desmopressin acetate or to any of the components of desmopressin acetate injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) , Adverse Reactions (6) , Description (11) ]. Desmopressin acetate injection is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions due to an increased risk of hyponatremia: Moderate to severe renal impairment defined as a creatinine clearance below 50 mL/min [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5 , 8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Hyponatremia or a history of hyponatremia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Drug Interactions (7.1) ], Use in Specific Populations (8.4 , 8.5) ]. Known or suspected syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) secretion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Polydipsia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Concomitant use with systemic or inhaled glucocorticoids [see Boxed Warning ]. During illnesses that can cause fluid or electrolyte imbalance, such as gastroenteritis, salt-wasting nephropathies, or systemic infection [see Boxed Warning ]. CONTRAINDICATIONS Desmopressin Acetate Injection 4 mcg/mL is contraindicated in individuals with known hypersensitivity to desmopressin acetate or to any of the components of Desmopressin Acetate Injection 4 mcg/mL. Desmopressin Acetate Injection is contraindicated in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (defined as a creatinine clearance below 50 mL/min). Desmopressin Acetate Injection is contraindicated in patients with hyponatremia or a history of hyponatremia. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Desmopressin nasal spray is contraindicated in patients with: Known hypersensitivity to desmopressin acetate or to any of the components of desmopressin nasal spray. Severe allergic reactions and anaphylaxis have been reported [see Adverse Reactions ( 6 )] . Renal impairment defined as estimated creatinine clearance (CLcr) by Cockcroft-Gault equation less than 50 mL/min [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Hyponatremia or a history of hyponatremia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Known hypersensitivity to desmopressin acetate or to any of the components of desmopressin nasal spray ( 4 , 6 ) Patients with renal impairment (creatinine clearance below 50 mL/min) ( 4 , 8.6 , 12.3 ) Hyponatremia or a history of hyponatremia ( 4 , 5.1 ) Desmopressin acetate tablets are contraindicated in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (defined as a creatinine clearance below 50 mL/min). Desmopressin acetate tablets are contraindicated in patients with hyponatremia or a history of hyponatremia. Known or suspected syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) secretion [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Polydipsia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] .
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Although the pressor activity of desmopressin acetate is very low compared to its antidiuretic activity, large doses of desmopressin acetate tablets should be used with other pressor agents only with careful patient monitoring. The concomitant administration of drugs that may increase the risk of water intoxication with hyponatremia, (e.g. tricyclic antidepressants, selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors, chlorpromazine, opiate analgesics, NSAIDs, lamotrigine and carbamazepine) should be performed with caution. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that increase risk of hyponatremia: Require more frequent serum sodium monitoring. ( 7.1 ) Other vasoconstrictors: May require a reduction of the desmopressin acetate dosage. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Other Drugs that may Increase Risk of Hyponatremia The concomitant administration of desmopressin acetate injection with other drugs that may increase the risk of water intoxication with hyponatremia, (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants, selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors, chlorpromazine, opiate analgesics, thiazide diuretics, NSAIDs, lamotrigine, sulfonylureas, particularly chlorpropamide, oxybutynin and carbamazepine), requires more frequent serum sodium monitoring. Monitor serum sodium more frequently in patients taking desmopressin acetate injection concomitantly with these drugs and when doses of these drugs are increased [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.1), Drug Interactions (7.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.4, 8.5)]. 7.2 Other Vasoconstrictors Desmopressin acetate injection can elevate blood pressure. Use of desmopressin acetate injection with other vasoconstrictors may require a reduction of the desmopressin acetate injection dosage [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2), Adverse Reactions (6)]. Monitor serum sodium more frequently in patients taking desmopressin acetate injection concomitantly with these drugs and when doses of these drugs are increased [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 , 8.5 )]. Use of desmopressin acetate injection with other vasoconstrictors may require a reduction of the desmopressin acetate injection dosage [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6 )]. Monitor serum sodium more frequently in patients taking desmopressin acetate injection concomitantly with these drugs and when doses of these drugs are increased [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Drug Interactions (7.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.4 , 8.5) ]. Use of desmopressin acetate injection with other vasoconstrictors may require a reduction of the desmopressin acetate injection dosage [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that Increase Risk of Hyponatremia: Requires more frequent monitoring of serum sodium ( 7.1 ) Other Vasoconstrictors: Concomitant use may elevate blood pressure and require a reduction in desmopressin nasal spray dosage ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Other Drugs that may Increase Risk of Hyponatremia The concomitant administration of desmopressin nasal spray with other drugs that may increase the risk of water intoxication with hyponatremia, (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants, selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors, chlorpromazine, opiate analgesics, NSAIDs, lamotrigine, oxybutynin and carbamazepine) requires more frequent serum sodium monitoring [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 )]. 7.2 Other Vasoconstrictors Desmopressin acetate can elevate blood pressure. Use of large doses of desmopressin nasal spray with other vasoconstrictors may require a reduction of the desmopressin dosage [see Adverse Reactions ( 6 )]. Drug Interactions: Although the pressor activity of desmopressin acetate is very low compared to its antidiuretic activity, large doses of desmopressin acetate tablets should be used with other pressor agents only with careful patient monitoring. ( 7.1 ) Other vasoconstrictors: May require a reduction of the Desmopressin Acetate Injection dosage. Monitor serum sodium more frequently in patients taking Desmopressin Acetate Injection concomitantly with these drugs and when doses of these drugs are increased [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Drug Interactions (7.1) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 , 8.5 )].

=== ESCITALOPRAM OXALATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Escitalopram is indicated for the treatment of: major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older. generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults. Additional pediatric use information is approved for AbbVie Inc.’s Lexapro (escitalopram) tablets and LEXAPRO (escitalopram) oral solution. However, due to AbbVie Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. Escitalopram is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the: treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older ( 1 ) treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Escitalopram is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the: • treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older ( 1 ) • treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults ( 1 ) Escitalopram tablets are indicated for the treatment of: • major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older. • generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults. Additional pediatric use information is approved for AbbVie Inc.’s LEXAPRO ® (escitalopram) tablets. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Escitalopram oral solution is indicated for the treatment of: major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older. Additional pediatric use information is approved for AbbVie Inc.’s LEXAPRO (escitalopram) oral solution. Escitalopram oral solution is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the: treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older. ( 1 ) treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Escitalopram oxalate is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for: Acute and Maintenance Treatment of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) in adults and adolescents aged 12 to 17 years (1.1) Acute Treatment of Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) in adults (1.2) 1.1 Major Depressive Disorder Escitalopram tablets are indicated for the acute and maintenance treatment of major depressive disorder in adults and in adolescents 12 to 17 years of age [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . A major depressive episode (DSM-IV) implies a prominent and relatively persistent (nearly every day for at least 2 weeks) depressed or dysphoric mood that usually interferes with daily functioning, and includes at least five of the following nine symptoms: depressed mood, loss of interest in usual activities, significant change in weight and/or appetite, insomnia or hypersomnia, psychomotor agitation or retardation, increased fatigue, feelings of guilt or worthlessness, slowed thinking or impaired concentration, a suicide attempt or suicidal ideation. 1.2 Generalized Anxiety Disorder Escitalopram tablets are indicated for the acute treatment of Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) in adults [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . Generalized Anxiety Disorder (DSM-IV) is characterized by excessive anxiety and worry (apprehensive expectation) that is persistent for at least 6 months and which the person finds difficult to control. It must be associated with at least 3 of the following symptoms: restlessness or feeling keyed up or on edge, being easily fatigued, difficulty concentrating or mind going blank, irritability, muscle tension, and sleep disturbance. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Escitalopram is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the : treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older ( 1 ) treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults ( 1 ) Escitalopram is indicated for the treatment of: • major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older. Additional pediatric use information is approved for AbbVie Inc.’s LEXAPRO (escitalopram) tablets and LEXAPRO (escitalopram) oral solutions. However, due to AbbVie Inc’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Escitalopram is indicated for the treatment of: • major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older. Escitalopram is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the: • treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older ( 1 ) • treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Escitalopram tablets are indicated for the treatment of: major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older. Additional pediatric use information is approved for AbbVie Inc.’s LEXAPRO (escitalopram) tablets. Escitalopram is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the: treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older (1) treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults (1) generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) inadults. Escitalopram oxalate is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) indicated for the: treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older ( 1 ) treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) in adults ( 1 )
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication and Population Recommended Dosage MDD in Adults ( 2.1 ) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily MDD in Pediatric Patients 12 years and older ( 2.1 ) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily GAD in Adults ( 2.2 ) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily No additional benefits were seen at 20 mg once daily ( 2.1 ) Administer once daily, morning or evening, with or without food ( 2.3 ) Elderly patients: recommended dosage is 10 mg once daily ( 2.4 ) Hepatic impairment: recommended dosage is 10 mg once daily ( 2.4 , 8.6 ) When discontinuing escitalopram, reduce dose gradually whenever possible ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Adults The recommended dosage of escitalopram in adults is 10 mg once daily. A fixed-dose trial of escitalopram demonstrated the effectiveness of both 10 mg and 20 mg of escitalopram, but failed to demonstrate a greater benefit of 20 mg over 10 mg [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Depending on clinical response and tolerability, dosage may be increased to the maximum recommended dosage of 20 mg once daily at an interval of no less than 1 week. Pediatric Patients 12 years of age and older The recommended dosage of escitalopram in pediatric patients 12 years of age and older is 10 mg once daily. Depending on clinical response and tolerability, dosage may be increased to the maximum recommended dosage of 20 mg once daily at an interval of no less than 3 weeks. 2.2 Generalized Anxiety Disorder Adults The recommended starting dosage of escitalopram in adults is 10 mg once daily. Additional pediatric use information is approved for AbbVie Inc.’s Lexapro (escitalopram) tablets and LEXAPRO (escitalopram) oral solution. However, due to AbbVie Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.3 Administration Information Administer escitalopram orally once daily, in the morning or evening, with or without food. 2.4 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Escitalopram Prior to initiating treatment with escitalopram or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. 2.5 Recommended Dosage for Specific Populations The recommended dosage for most elderly patients and patients with hepatic impairment is 10 mg once daily [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 , 8.6 ) ]. The recommended dosage for escitalopram in adults with a creatinine clearance less than 20 mL/minute has not been determined. No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] . 2.6 Discontinuation of Treatment with Escitalopram Symptoms associated with discontinuation of escitalopram and other SSRIs and SNRIs have been reported [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Patients should be monitored for these symptoms when discontinuing treatment. A gradual reduction in the dose rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible. If intolerable symptoms occur following a decrease in the dose or upon discontinuation of treatment, then resuming the previously prescribed dose may be considered. Subsequently, the physician may continue decreasing the dose but at a more gradual rate. 2.7 Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Antidepressant At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with escitalopram. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping escitalopram before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [ see Contraindications (4) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication and Population Recommended Dosage MDD in Adults ( 2.1 ) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily MDD in Pediatric Patients 12 years and older ( 2.1 ) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily GAD in Adults ( 2.2 ) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily • No additional benefits were seen at 20 mg once daily ( 2.1 ) • Administer once daily, morning or evening, with or without food ( 2.3 ) • Elderly patients: recommended dosage is 10 mg once daily ( 2.4 ) • Hepatic impairment: recommended dosage is 10 mg once daily ( 2.4 , 8.6 ) • When discontinuing Escitalopram tablets, reduce dose gradually whenever possible ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Adults The recommended dosage of escitalopram tablets in adults is 10 mg once daily. A fixed-dose trial of escitalopram tablets demonstrated the effectiveness of both 10 mg and 20 mg of escitalopram tablets, but failed to demonstrate a greater benefit of 20 mg over 10 mg [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Pediatric Patients 12 years of age and older The recommended dosage of escitalopram tablets in pediatric patients 12 years of age and older is 10 mg once daily. 2.2 Generalized Anxiety Disorder Adults The recommended starting dosage of escitalopram tablets in adults is 10 mg once daily. Additional pediatric use information is approved for AbbVie Inc.’s LEXAPRO ® (escitalopram) tablets. 2.3 Administration Information Administer escitalopram tablets orally once daily, in the morning or evening, with or without food. 2.4 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Escitalopram Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with escitalopram tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . 2.5 Recommended Dosage for Specific Populations The recommended dosage for most elderly patients and patients with hepatic impairment is 10 mg once daily [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 , 8.6 )] . The recommended dosage for escitalopram tablets in adults with a creatinine clearance less than 20 mL/minute has not been determined. No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )] . 2.6 Discontinuation of Treatment with Escitalopram Tablets Symptoms associated with discontinuation of escitalopram tablets and other SSRIs and SNRIs have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . 2.7 Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Antidepressant At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with escitalopram tablets. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping escitalopram tablets before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication and Population Recommended Dosage MDD in Adults (2.1) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily MDD in Pediatric Patients 12 years and older (2.1) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily GAD in Adults (2.2) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily No additional benefits were seen at 20 mg once daily. (2.1) Administer once daily, morning or evening, with or without food. (2.3) Elderly patients: recommended dosage is 10 mg once daily. (2.4) Hepatic impairment: recommended dosage is 10 mg once daily. (2.4 , 8.6 ) When discontinuing escitalopram oral solution, reduce dose gradually whenever possible. (2.5) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Adults The recommended dosage of escitalopram oral solution in adults is 10 mg once daily. A fixed-dose trial of escitalopram oral solution demonstrated the effectiveness of both 10 mg and 20 mg of escitalopram oral solution, but failed to demonstrate a greater benefit of 20 mg over 10 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Pediatric Patients 12 years of age and older The recommended dosage of escitalopram oral solution in pediatric patients 12 years of age and older is 10 mg once daily. 2.2 Generalized Anxiety Disorder Adults The recommended starting dosage of escitalopram oral solution in adults is 10 mg once daily. Additional pediatric use information is approved for AbbVie Inc.’s LEXAPRO (escitalopram) oral solution. 2.3 Administration Information Administer escitalopram oral solution orally once daily, in the morning or evening, with or without food. 2.4 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Escitalopram Oral Solution Prior to initiating treatment with escitalopram oral solution or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . 2.5 Recommended Dosage for Specific Populations The recommended dosage for most elderly patients and patients with hepatic impairment is 10 mg once daily [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5 , 8.6) ] . The recommended dosage for escitalopram oral solution in adults with a creatinine clearance less than 20 mL/minute has not been determined. No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] . 2.6 Discontinuation of Treatment with Escitalopram Oral Solution Symptoms associated with discontinuation of escitalopram oral solution and other SSRIs and SNRIs have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . 2.7 Switching Patients to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Antidepressant At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with escitalopram oral solution. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping escitalopram oral solution before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications (4) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Escitalopram tablets should be administered once daily, in the morning or evening, with or without food. Escitalopram tablets should generally be administered once daily, morning or evening with or without food ( 2.1 , 2.2 ). Indication Recommended Dose MDD in Adolescents (2.1) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily MDD in Adults (2.1) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily GAD in Adults (2.2) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily No additional benefits seen at 20 mg/day dose (2.1) . 10 mg/day is the recommended dose for most elderly patients and patients with hepatic impairment ( 2.3 ). No dosage adjustment for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. Use caution in patients with severe renal impairment ( 2.3 ). Discontinuing Escitalopram Tablets: A gradual dose reduction is recommended ( 2.4 ). 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Initial Treatment Adolescents The recommended dose of escitalopram tablets is 10 mg once daily. A flexible-dose trial of escitalopram tablets (10 to 20 mg/day) demonstrated the effectiveness of escitalopram tablets [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . If the dose is increased to 20 mg, this should occur after a minimum of three weeks. Adults The recommended dose of escitalopram tablets is 10 mg once daily. A fixed-dose trial of escitalopram tablets demonstrated the effectiveness of both 10 mg and 20 mg of escitalopram tablets, but failed to demonstrate a greater benefit of 20 mg over 10 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . If the dose is increased to 20 mg, this should occur after a minimum of one week. Maintenance Treatment It is generally agreed that acute episodes of major depressive disorder require several months or longer of sustained pharmacological therapy beyond response to the acute episode. Systematic evaluation of continuing escitalopram tablets 10 or 20 mg/day in adults patients with major depressive disorder who responded while taking escitalopram tablets during an 8-week, acute-treatment phase demonstrated a benefit of such maintenance treatment [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Nevertheless, the physician who elects to use escitalopram tablets for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. Patients should be periodically reassessed to determine the need for maintenance treatment. 2.2 Generalized Anxiety Disorder Initial Treatment Adults The recommended starting dose of escitalopram tablets is 10 mg once daily. Maintenance Treatment Generalized anxiety disorder is recognized as a chronic condition. The efficacy of escitalopram tablets in the treatment of GAD beyond 8 weeks has not been systematically studied. The physician who elects to use escitalopram tablets for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient. 2.3 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Escitalopram Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with escitalopram tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. 2.4 Special Populations 10 mg/day is the recommended dose for most elderly patients and patients with hepatic impairment. No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. Escitalopram tablets should be used with caution in patients with severe renal impairment. 2.5 Discontinuation of Treatment with Escitalopram Tablets Symptoms associated with discontinuation of escitalopram tablets and other SSRIs and SNRIs have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . 2.6 Switching a Patient to or from a Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor (MAOI) Intended to Treat Psychiatric Disorders At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders and initiation of therapy with escitalopram tablets. Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping escitalopram tablets before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications (4.1) ]. 2.7 Use of Escitalopram Tablets with Other MAOIs such as Linezolid or Methylene Blue Do not start escitalopram tablets in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue because there is an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. In a patient who requires more urgent treatment of a psychiatric condition, other interventions, including hospitalization, should be considered [see Contraindications (4.1) ]. In some cases, a patient already receiving escitalopram tablets therapy may require urgent treatment with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. If acceptable alternatives to linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are not available and the potential benefits of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue treatment are judged to outweigh the risks of serotonin syndrome in a particular patient, escitalopram tablets should be stopped promptly, and linezolid or intravenous methylene blue can be administered. The patient should be monitored for symptoms of serotonin syndrome for 2 weeks or until 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue, whichever comes first. Therapy with escitalopram tablets may be resumed 24 hours after the last dose of linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . The risk of administering methylene blue by non-intravenous routes (such as oral tablets or by local injection) or in intravenous doses much lower than 1 mg/kg with escitalopram tablets is unclear. The clinician should, nevertheless, be aware of the possibility of emergent symptoms of serotonin syndrome with such use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . Indication and Population Recommended Dose MDD in Adults ( 2.1 ) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily MDD in Pediatric Patients 12 years and older ( 2.1 ) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily GAD in Adults ( 2.2 ) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily No additional benefits were seen at 20 mg once daily ( 2.1 ). Administer once daily, morning or evening, with or without food ( 2.3 ) Elderly patients: recommended dosage is 10 mg once daily ( 2.4 ) Hepatic impairment: recommended dosage is 10 mg once daily ( 2.4 , 8.6 ) When discontinuing escitalopram tablets, reduce dose gradually whenever possible ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Adults The recommended dosage of escitalopram tablets in adults is 10 mg once daily. A fixed-dose trial of escitalopram demonstrated the effectiveness of both 10 mg and 20 mg of escitalopram, but failed to demonstrate a greater benefit of 20 mg over 10 mg [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1) ]. Additional pediatric use information is approved for AbbVie Inc.’s LEXAPRO (escitalopram) tablets and LEXAPRO (escitalopram) oral solutions. However, due to AbbVie Inc’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.3 Administration Information Administer escitalopram tablets orally once daily, in the morning or evening, with or without food 2.4 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Escitalopram Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with escitalopram or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] 2.5 Recommended Dosage for Specific Populations The recommended dosage for most elderly patients and patients with hepatic impairment is 10 mg once daily [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 , 8.6 ) ]. The recommended dosage for escitalopram tablets in adults with a creatinine clearance less than 20 mL/ minute has not been determined. No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) ] . A fixed-dose trial of escitalopram demonstrated the effectiveness of both 10 mg and 20 mg of escitalopram, but failed to demonstrate a greater benefit of 20 mg over 10 mg [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . 2.4 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Escitalopram Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with escitalopram or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . Recommended Dosage for Specific Populations The recommended dosage for most elderly patients and patients with hepatic impairment is 10 mg once daily [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 , 8.6 )] . Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping escitalopram tablets before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication and Population Recommended Dosage MDD in Adults (2.1) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily MDD in Pediatric Patients 12 years and older (2.1) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily GAD in Adults (2.2) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily No additional benefits were seen at 20 mg once daily (2.1) Administer once daily, morning or evening, with or without food (2.3) Elderly patients: recommended dosage is 10 mg once daily (2.4) Hepatic impairment: recommended dosage is 10 mg once daily (2.4, 8.6) When discontinuing escitalopram tablets, reduce dose gradually whenever possible (2.5) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Adults The recommended dosage of escitalopram tablets in adults is 10 mg once daily. A fixed-dose trial of escitalopram demonstrated the effectiveness of both 10 mg and 20 mg of escitalopram, but failed to demonstrate a greater benefit of 20 mg over 10 mg [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Depending on clinical response and tolerability, dosage may be increased to the maximum recommended dosage of 20 mg once daily at an interval of no less than 3 weeks 2.2 Generalized Anxiety Disorder Adults The recommended starting dosage of escitalopram tablets in adults is 10 mg once daily. Additional pediatric use information is approved for AbbVie Inc.’s LEXAPRO (escitalopram) tablets. 2.4 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Escitalopram Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with escitalopram or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. 2.5 Recommended Dosage for Specific Populations The recommended dosage for most elderly patients and patients with hepatic impairment is 10 mg once daily [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5, 8.6)]. No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7)]. 2.6 Discontinuation of Treatment with Escitalopram Tablets Symptoms associated with discontinuation of escitalopram tablets and other SSRIs and SNRIs have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] . Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping escitalopram tablets before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications (4)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication and Population Recommended Dosage MDD in Adults ( 2.1 ) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily MDD in Pediatric Patients 12 years and older ( 2.1 ) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily GAD in Adults ( 2.2 ) Initial: 10 mg once daily Recommended: 10 mg once daily Maximum: 20 mg once daily No additional benefits were seen at 20 mg once daily ( 2.1 ) Administer once daily, morning or evening, with or without food ( 2.3 ) Elderly patients: recommended dosage is 10 mg once daily ( 2.4 ) Hepatic impairment: recommended dosage is 10 mg once daily ( 2.4 , 8.6 ) When discontinuing escitalopram tablets, reduce dose gradually whenever possible ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Major Depressive Disorder Adults The recommended dosage of escitalopram tablets in adults is 10 mg once daily. Additional pediatric use information is approvedforAbbVie Inc.’s LEXAPRO (escitalopram) tablets. 2.3 Administration Information Administer escitalopram tablets orally once daily, in the morning orevening, with or without food. 2.4 Screen for Bipolar Disorder Prior to Starting Escitalopram Tablets Prior to initiating treatment with escitalopram tablets or another antidepressant, screen patients for a personal family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild ormoderate renal impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7)]. 2.6 Discontinuation of Treatment with Escitalopram Tablets Symptoms associated with discontinuation of escitalopram tablets and other SSRIs and SNRIs have been reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Conversely, at least 14 days should be allowed after stopping escitalopram tablets before starting an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders [see Contraindications (4) ] .
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Escitalopram is contraindicated in patients: taking MAOIs with escitalopram or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of escitalopram within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [ see Dosage and Administration (2.7) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Starting escitalopram in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [ see Dosage and Administration (2.6) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. taking pimozide [ see Drug Interactions (7) ] with a hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients in escitalopram. Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with escitalopram or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram. Do not use escitalopram within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders. In addition, do not start escitalopram in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue ( 4 ) Concomitant use of pimozide ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with escitalopram or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram. In addition, do not start escitalopram in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue ( 4 ) Concomitant use of pimozide ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients ( 4 ) Escitalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients: • taking MAOIs with escitalopram tablets or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram tablets because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of escitalopram tablets within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Starting escitalopram tablets in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . • taking pimozide [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . • with a hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients in escitalopram tablets. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Escitalopram oxalate is contraindicated in patients: taking MAOIs with escitalopram oxalate or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram oxalate because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of escitalopram oxalate within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Starting escitalopram oxalate in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . taking pimozide [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . with a hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients in escitalopram oral solution. Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with escitalopram oxalate or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram oxalate. Do not use escitalopram oxalate within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders. In addition, do not start escitalopram oxalate in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. (4) Concomitant use of pimozide. (4) Known hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Serotonin Syndrome and MAOIs: Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with escitalopram tablets or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram tablets. Do not use escitalopram tablets within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders. In addition, do not start escitalopram tablets in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue (4.1) . Pimozide: Do not use concomitantly ( 4.2 ). Known hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients (4.3) . 4.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) The use of MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with escitalopram tablets or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram tablets are contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of escitalopram tablets within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders are also contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Starting escitalopram tablets in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 4.2 Pimozide Concomitant use in patients taking pimozide is contraindicated [see Drug Interactions (7.10) ] . 4.3 Hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram Escitalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients with a hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients in escitalopram tablets. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Escitalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients: taking MAOIs with escitalopram tablets or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram tablets because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of escitalopram tablets within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ] . Starting escitalopram tablets in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ] . taking pimozide [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] . with a hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients in escitalopram tablets. Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with escitalopram tablets or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram tablets. In addition, do not start escitalopram tablets in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue ( 4 ) Concomitant use of pimozide ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Escitalopram tablets are contraindicated in patients: • taking MAOIs with escitalopram tablets or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram tablets because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. • Do not use MAOIs intended to treat psychiatric disorders with escitalopram tablets or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram tablets. In addition, do not start escitalopram tablets in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue ( 4 ) • Concomitant use of pimozide ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Escitalopram tablets is contraindicated in patients: taking MAOIs with escitalopram tablets or within 14 days of stopping treatment with escitalopram tablets because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome. The use of escitalopram tablets within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Starting escitalopram tablets in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [ see Dosage and Administration (2.6) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. taking pimozide [see Drug Interactions (7)]. In addition, do not start escitalopram tablets in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue (4) Concomitant use of pimozide (4) Known hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients (4) The use of escitalopram tablets within 14 days of stopping an MAOI intended to treat psychiatric disorders is also contraindicated [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Starting escitalopram tablets in a patient who is being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue is also contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. taking pimozide [see Drug Interactions (7) ]. In addition, do not start escitalopram tablets in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or intravenous methylene blue ( 4 ) Concomitant use of pimozide ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to escitalopram or citalopram or any of the inactive ingredients ( 4 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 6 presents clinically important drug interactions with escitalopram. TABLE 6 Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Escitalopram Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of SSRIs, including escitalopram, and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Escitalopram is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [ see Dosage and Administration (2.7) , Contraindications (4) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Pimozide Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of racemic citalopram with pimozide increases plasma concentrations of pimozide, a drug with a narrow therapeutic index, and may increase the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to use of racemic citalopram alone [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Escitalopram is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide [ see Contraindications (4) ]. Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of escitalopram and other serotonergic drugs (including other SSRIs, SNRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan, and St. John’s Wort) increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during escitalopram initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of escitalopram and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [ see Warnings and Precautions(5.2) ] Drugs That Interfere With Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin, etc.) Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of escitalopram and an antiplatelet or anticoagulant may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Intervention: Inform patients of the increased risk of bleeding associated with the concomitant use of escitalopram and antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the internationalnormalized ratio [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Sumatriptan Clinical Impact: There have been postmarketing reports describing patients with weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination following the use of an SSRI and sumatriptan. Intervention: If concomitant treatment with sumatriptan and an SSRI is clinically warranted, appropriate observation of the patient is advised [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Carbamazepine Clinical Impact: Combined administration of racemic citalopram (40 mg/day for 14 days) and carbamazepine (titrated to 400 mg/day for 35 days) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of carbamazepine, a CYP3A4 substrate. Intervention: Although trough citalopram plasma levels were unaffected, given the enzyme-inducing properties of carbamazepine, the possibility that carbamazepine might increase the clearance of escitalopram should be considered if the two drugs are coadministered. Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: Coadministration of escitalopram (20 mg/day for 21 days) with the tricyclic antidepressant desipramine (single dose of 50 mg), a substrate for CYP2D6, resulted in a 40% increase in C max and a 100% increase in AUC of desipramine. Intervention: The clinical significance of this finding is unknown. Exercise caution during coadministration of escitalopram and drugs metabolized by CYP2D6. Concomitant use with SSRIs, SNRIs or Tryptophan is not recommended ( 7 ) Use caution when concomitant use with drugs that affect Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin) ( 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Concomitant use with SSRIs, SNRIs or Tryptophan is not recommended ( 7 ) • Use caution when concomitant use with drugs that affect Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin) ( 7 ) Table 6 presents clinically important drug interactions with escitalopram. Intervention: Escitalopram is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 ), Contraindications ( 4 ), and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Pimozide Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of racemic citalopram with pimozide increases plasma concentrations of pimozide, a drug with a narrow therapeutic index, and may increase the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to use of racemic citalopram alone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: Escitalopram is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . John's Wort) increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of Escitalopram and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warning and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Drugs That Interfere With Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin, etc.) Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of Escitalopram and an antiplatelet or anticoagulant may potentiate the risk of bleeding. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio [see Warning and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . Intervention: If concomitant treatment with sumatriptan and an SSRI is clinically warranted, appropriate observation of the patient is advised [see Warning and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: Coadministration of escitalopram (20 mg/day for 21 days) with the tricyclic antidepressant desipramine (single dose of 50 mg), a substrate for CYP2D6, resulted in a 40% increase in Cmax and a 100% increase in AUC of desipramine. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 6 presents clinically important drug interactions with escitalopram oxalate. TABLE 6 Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Escitalopram Oxalate Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of SSRIs, including escitalopram oxalate, and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Escitalopram oxalate is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) , Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Pimozide Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of racemic citalopram with pimozide increases plasma concentrations of pimozide, a drug with a narrow therapeutic index, and may increase the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to use of racemic citalopram alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Intervention: Escitalopram oxalate is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide [see Contraindications (4)] . Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of escitalopram oxalate and other serotonergic drugs (including other SSRIs, SNRIs, triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan, and St. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during escitalopram oxalate initiation and dosage increases. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of escitalopram oxalate and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warning and Precautions (5.2)] . Drugs That Interfere With Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin, etc.) Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of escitalopram oxalate and an antiplatelet or anticoagulant may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Intervention: Inform patients of the increased risk of bleeding associated with the concomitant use of escitalopram oxalate and antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio [see Warning and Precautions (5.7)] . Sumatriptan Clinical Impact: There have been post-marketing reports describing patients with weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination following the use of an SSRI and sumatriptan. Intervention: If concomitant treatment with sumatriptan and an SSRI is clinically warranted, appropriate observation of the patient is advised [see Warning and Precautions (5.2)] . Intervention: Although trough citalopram plasma levels were unaffected, given the enzyme-inducing properties of carbamazepine, the possibility that carbamazepine might increase the clearance of escitalopram should be considered if the two drugs are co-administered. Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: Co-administration of escitalopram (20 mg/day for 21 days) with the tricyclic antidepressant desipramine (single dose of 50 mg), a substrate for CYP2D6, resulted in a 40% increase in C max and a 100% increase in AUC of desipramine. Exercise caution during co-administration of escitalopram and drugs metabolized by CYP2D6. Concomitant use with SSRIs, SNRIs or Tryptophan is not recommended. (7) Use caution when concomitant use with drugs that affect Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin). (7) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant use with SSRIs, SNRIs or Tryptophan is not recommended ( 7.2 ). Use caution when concomitant use with drugs that affect Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin) (7.6) . 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) [See Dosage and Administration (2.5 and 2.6) , Contraindications (4.1) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 7.2 Serotonergic Drugs [See Dosage and Administration (2.5 and 2.6) , Contraindications (4.1) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 7.3 Triptans There have been rare postmarketing reports of serotonin syndrome with use of an SSRI and a triptan. If concomitant treatment of escitalopram oxalate with a triptan is clinically warranted, careful observation of the patient is advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 7.4 CNS Drugs Given the primary CNS effects of escitalopram, caution should be used when it is taken in combination with other centrally acting drugs. 7.5 Alcohol Although escitalopram oxalate did not potentiate the cognitive and motor effects of alcohol in a clinical trial, as with other psychotropic medications, the use of alcohol by patients taking escitalopram oxalate is not recommended. 7.6 Drugs That Interfere With Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin, etc.) Serotonin release by platelets plays an important role in hemostasis. Epidemiological studies of the case-control and cohort design that have demonstrated an association between use of psychotropic drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding have also shown that concurrent use of an NSAID or aspirin may potentiate the risk of bleeding. Altered anticoagulant effects, including increased bleeding, have been reported when SSRIs and SNRIs are coadministered with warfarin. Patients receiving warfarin therapy should be carefully monitored when escitalopram oxalate is initiated or discontinued. 7.7 Cimetidine In subjects who had received 21 days of 40 mg/day racemic citalopram, combined administration of 400 mg twice a day cimetidine for 8 days resulted in an increase in citalopram AUC and C max of 43% and 39%, respectively. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. 7.8 Digoxin In subjects who had received 21 days of 40 mg/day racemic citalopram, combined administration of citalopram and digoxin (single dose of 1 mg) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either citalopram or digoxin. 7.9 Lithium Coadministration of racemic citalopram (40 mg/day for 10 days) and lithium (30 mmol/day for 5 days) had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of citalopram or lithium. Nevertheless, plasma lithium levels should be monitored with appropriate adjustment to the lithium dose in accordance with standard clinical practice. Because lithium may enhance the serotonergic effects of escitalopram, caution should be exercised when escitalopram oxalate and lithium are coadministered. 7.10 Pimozide and Celexa In a controlled study, a single dose of pimozide 2 mg co-administered with racemic citalopram 40 mg given once daily for 11 days was associated with a mean increase in QTc values of approximately 10 msec compared to pimozide given alone. Racemic citalopram did not alter the mean AUC or C max of pimozide. The mechanism of this pharmacodynamic interaction is not known. 7.11 Sumatriptan There have been rare postmarketing reports describing patients with weakness, hyperreflexia, and incoordination following the use of an SSRI and sumatriptan. If concomitant treatment with sumatriptan and an SSRI (e.g., fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, paroxetine, sertraline, citalopram, escitalopram) is clinically warranted, appropriate observation of the patient is advised. 7.12 Theophylline Combined administration of racemic citalopram (40 mg/day for 21 days) and the CYP1A2 substrate theophylline (single dose of 300 mg) did not affect the pharmacokinetics of theophylline. The effect of theophylline on the pharmacokinetics of citalopram was not evaluated. 7.13 Warfarin Administration of 40 mg/day racemic citalopram for 21 days did not affect the pharmacokinetics of warfarin, a CYP3A4 substrate. Prothrombin time was increased by 5%, the clinical significance of which is unknown. 7.14 Carbamazepine Combined administration of racemic citalopram (40 mg/day for 14 days) and carbamazepine (titrated to 400 mg/day for 35 days) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of carbamazepine, a CYP3A4 substrate. Although trough citalopram plasma levels were unaffected, given the enzyme-inducing properties of carbamazepine, the possibility that carbamazepine might increase the clearance of escitalopram should be considered if the two drugs are coadministered. 7.15 Triazolam Combined administration of racemic citalopram (titrated to 40 mg/day for 28 days) and the CYP3A4 substrate triazolam (single dose of 0.25 mg) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of either citalopram or triazolam. 7.16 Ketoconazole Combined administration of racemic citalopram (40 mg) and ketoconazole (200 mg), a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, decreased the C max and AUC of ketoconazole by 21% and 10%, respectively, and did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of citalopram. 7.17 Ritonavir Combined administration of a single dose of ritonavir (600 mg), both a CYP3A4 substrate and a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, and escitalopram (20 mg) did not affect the pharmacokinetics of either ritonavir or escitalopram. 7.18 CYP3A4 and -2C19 Inhibitors In vitro studies indicated that CYP3A4 and -2C19 are the primary enzymes involved in the metabolism of escitalopram. However, coadministration of escitalopram (20 mg) and ritonavir (600 mg), a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of escitalopram. Because escitalopram is metabolized by multiple enzyme systems, inhibition of a single enzyme may not appreciably decrease escitalopram clearance. 7.19 Drugs Metabolized by Cytochrome P4502D6 In vitro studies did not reveal an inhibitory effect of escitalopram on CYP2D6. In addition, steady state levels of racemic citalopram were not significantly different in poor metabolizers and extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers after multiple-dose administration of citalopram, suggesting that coadministration, with escitalopram, of a drug that inhibits CYP2D6, is unlikely to have clinically significant effects on escitalopram metabolism. However, there are limited in vivo data suggesting a modest CYP2D6 inhibitory effect for escitalopram, i.e., coadministration of escitalopram (20 mg/day for 21 days) with the tricyclic antidepressant desipramine (single dose of 50 mg), a substrate for CYP2D6, resulted in a 40% increase in C max and a 100% increase in AUC of desipramine. The clinical significance of this finding is unknown. Nevertheless, caution is indicated in the coadministration of escitalopram and drugs metabolized by CYP2D6. 7.20 Metoprolol Administration of 20 mg/day escitalopram oxalate for 21 days in healthy volunteers resulted in a 50% increase in C max and 82% increase in AUC of the beta-adrenergic blocker metoprolol (given in a single dose of 100 mg). Increased metoprolol plasma levels have been associated with decreased cardioselectivity. Coadministration of escitalopram oxalate and metoprolol had no clinically significant effects on blood pressure or heart rate. 7.21 Electroconvulsive Therapy (ECT) There are no clinical studies of the combined use of ECT and escitalopram. TABLE 6 Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Escitalopram. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of SSRIs, including escitalopram, and MAOIs increases the risk of serotonin syndrome. Intervention: Escitalopram is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 ), Contraindications (4), and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Pimozide Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of racemic citalopram with pimozide increases plasma concentrations of pimozide, a drug with a narrow therapeutic index, and may increase the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to use of racemic citalopram alone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: Escitalopram is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. Other Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of escitalopram and other serotonergic drugs (including other SSRIs, SNRIs, SNRIs, triptans, tricycle antidepressant, opioids, lithium, buspirone, amphetamines, tryptophan and St. John’s Wort) increase the risk of serotonin syndrome. • Concomitant use with SSRIs, SNRIs or Tryptophan is not recommended ( 7 ) • Use caution when concomitant use with drugs that affect Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin) ( 7 ) TABLE 6 Clinically Important Drug Interactions with Escitalopram Concomitant use with SSRIs, SNRIs or Tryptophan is notrecommended (7) Use caution when concomitant use with drugs that affect Hemostasis (NSAIDs, Aspirin, Warfarin) (7) 7.1 7.2 Intervention: Escitalopram oxalate is contraindicated in patients taking MAOIs, including MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) , Contraindications (4) , and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Pimozide Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of racemic citalopram with pimozide increases plasma concentrations of pimozide, a drug with a narrow therapeutic index, and may increase the risk of QT prolongation and/or ventricular arrhythmias compared to use of racemic citalopram alone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Escitalopram oxalate is contraindicated in patients taking pimozide [see Contraindications (4) ]. If serotonin syndrome occurs, consider discontinuation of escitalopram oxalate and/or concomitant serotonergic drugs [see Warning and Precautions (5.2) ] . For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor the international normalized ratio [see Warning and Precautions (5.7) ] . Intervention: If concomitant treatment with sumatriptan and an SSRI is clinically warranted, appropriate observation of the patient is advised [see Warning and Precautions (5.2) ] .

=== ISOSORBIDE MONONITRATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Isosorbide mononitrate extended-release tablets, USP are indicated for the prevention of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease. The onset of action of oral isosorbide mononitrate is not sufficiently rapid for this product to be useful in aborting an acute anginal episode. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Isosorbide mononitrate extended-release tablets are indicated for the prevention of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease. INDICATIONS & USAGE Isosorbide mononitrate extended-release tablets are indicated for the prevention of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease. INDICATIONS AND USAGE: Isosorbide Mononitrate Tablets are indicated for the prevention and treatment of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended starting dose of isosorbide mononitrate extended-release tablets is 30 mg (given as a single 30 mg tablet or as 1/2 of a 60 mg tablet) or 60 mg (given as a single tablet) once daily. After several days, the dosage may be increased to 120 mg (given as a single 120 mg tablet or as two 60 mg tablets) once daily. Rarely, 240 mg may be required. The daily dose of isosorbide mononitrate extended-release tablets should be taken in the morning on arising. Isosorbide mononitrate extended-release tablets should not be chewed or crushed and should be swallowed together with a half-glassful of fluid. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended starting dose of Isosorbide Mononitrate Extended-Release Tablets, USP is 30 mg (given as a single 30 mg tablet or as 1/2 of a 60 mg tablet) or 60 mg (given as a single tablet) once daily. The daily dose of Isosorbide Mononitrate Extended-Release Tablets, USP should be taken in the morning on arising. Isosorbide Mononitrate Extended-Release Tablets, USP should not be chewed or crushed and should be swallowed together with a half-glassful of fluid. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION The recommended starting dose of Isosorbide Mononitrate Extended-Release Tablets, USP is 30 mg (given as a single 30 mg tablet or as 1/2 of a 60 mg tablet) or 60 mg (given as a single tablet) once daily. Do not break the 30 mg tablet. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: The recommended regimen of Isosorbide Mononitrate Tablets is 20 mg twice daily, with the doses seven hours apart. A starting dose of 5 mg (½ tablet of the 10 mg dosing strength) might be appropriate for persons of particularly small stature but should be increased to at least 10 mg by the second or third day of therapy. Dosage adjustments are not necessary for elderly patients or patients with altered hepatic or renal function. As noted above ( Clinical Pharmacology ), multiple studies of organic nitrates have shown that maintenance of continuous 24-hour plasma levels results in refractory tolerance. The asymmetric (2 doses, 7 hours apart) dosing regimen for Isosorbide Mononitrate Tablets provides a daily nitrate-free interval to minimize the development of tolerance. As also noted under Clinical Pharmacology , well-controlled studies have shown that tolerance to Isosorbide Mononitrate Tablets occurs to some extent when using the twice-daily regimen in which the two doses are given seven hours apart. This regimen has been shown to have antianginal efficacy beginning one hour after the first dose and lasting at least seven hours after the second dose. The duration (if any) of antianginal activity beyond fourteen hours has not been studied. In clinical trials, isosorbide mononitrate has been administered in a variety of regimens and doses. Doses above 20 mg twice a day (with the doses seven hours apart) have not been adequately studied. Doses of 5 mg twice a day are clearly effective (effectiveness based on exercise tolerance) for only the first day of a twice-a-day (with doses 7 hours apart) regimen.
Warnings: WARNINGS Amplification of the vasodilatory effects of isosorbide mononitrate by sildenafil can result in severe hypotension. The time course and dose dependence of this interaction have not been studied. Appropriate supportive care has not been studied, but it seems reasonable to treat this as a nitrate overdose, with elevation of the extremities and with central volume expansion. The benefits of ISMN in patients with acute myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure have not been established; because the effects of isosorbide mononitrate are difficult to terminate rapidly, this drug is not recommended in these settings. If isosorbide mononitrate is used in these conditions, careful clinical or hemodynamic monitoring must be used to avoid the hazards of hypotension and tachycardia. WARNINGS: Amplification of the vasodilatory effects of isosorbide mononitrate by sildenafil can result in severe hypotension. The benefits of isosorbide mononitrate in patients with acute myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure have not been established. Because the effects of isosorbide mononitrate are difficult to terminate rapidly, this drug is not recommended in these settings.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Isosorbide mononitrate extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients who have shown hypersensitivity or idiosyncratic reactions to other nitrates or nitrites. CONTRAINDICATIONS: Isosorbide mononitrate is contraindicated in patients who are allergic to it. Do not use isosorbide mononitrate in patients who are taking certain drugs for erectile dysfunction (phosphodiesterase inhibitors), such as sildenafil, tadalafil, or vardenafil. Concomitant use can cause severe hypotension, syncope, or myocardial ischemia. Do not use isosorbide mononitrate in patients who are taking the soluble guanylate cyclase stimulator riociguat. Concomitant use can cause hypotension.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions The vasodilating effects of isosorbide mononitrate may be additive with those of other vasodilators. Alcohol, in particular, has been found to exhibit additive effects of this variety. Marked symptomatic orthostatic hypotension has been reported when calcium channel blockers and organic nitrates were used in combination. Dose adjustments of either class of agents may be necessary.

=== PANTOPRAZOLE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection is indicated for treatment of: gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and a history of erosive esophagitis (EE) for up to 10 days in adults. pathological hypersecretory conditions including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome in adults. Limitations of Use The safety and effectiveness of Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection for the treatment of upper gastrointestinal bleeding have not been established in adult or pediatric patients. Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc.'s PROTONIX® I.V. (pantoprazole sodium) for Injection. However, due to Pfizer Inc.'s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated for treatment of: gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and a history of erosive esophagitis (EE) for up to 10 days in adults. ( 1 ) pathological hypersecretion conditions including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome in adults. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use The safety and effectiveness of pantoprazole sodium for injection for the treatment of upper gastrointestinal bleeding have not been established in adult or pediatric patients. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated for: Pantoprazole sodium is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated for the following: Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated with Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) (1.1) Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis (1.2) Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome (1.3) 1.1 Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) Pantoprazole sodium is indicated in adults and pediatric patients five years of age and older for the short-term treatment (up to 8 weeks) in the healing and symptomatic relief of erosive esophagitis (EE). For those adult patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of pantoprazole sodium may be considered. Safety of treatment beyond 8 weeks in pediatric patients has not been established. 1.2 Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis Pantoprazole sodium is indicated for maintenance of healing of EE and reduction in relapse rates of daytime and nighttime heartburn symptoms in adult patients with GERD. Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 months. 1.3 Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome Pantoprazole sodium is indicated for the long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated for: Pantoprazole sodium is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated for the following: Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated with Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) ( 1.1 ) Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis ( 1.2 ) Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) Pantoprazole sodium is indicated in adults and pediatric patients five years of age and older for the short-term treatment (up to 8 weeks) in the healing and symptomatic relief of erosive esophagitis (EE). For those adult patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets may be considered. 1.2 Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis Pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated for maintenance of healing of EE and reduction in relapse rates of daytime and nighttime heartburn symptoms in adult patients with GERD. 1.3 Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Pantoprazole sodium is indicated for the long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome. Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets are indicated for: 1.1 Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablet is indicated in adults and pediatric patients five years of age and older for the short-term treatment (up to 8 weeks) in the healing and symptomatic relief of erosive esophagitis (EE). 1.3 Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets are indicated for the long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome. pathological hypersecretion conditions including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome in adults. Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc.’s PROTONIX ® I.V. However, due to Pfizer Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated for: Pantoprazole sodium is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated for the following: Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated with Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) ( 1.1 ) Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis ( 1.2 ) Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) Pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated in adults and pediatric patients five years of age and older for the short-term treatment (up to 8 weeks) in the healing and symptomatic relief of erosive esophagitis (EE). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE PROTONIX For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension and PROTONIX Delayed-Release Tablets are indicated for: PROTONIX is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated for the following: • Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated with Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) ( 1.1 ) • Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis ( 1.2 ) • Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) PROTONIX is indicated in adults and pediatric patients five years of age and older for the short-term treatment (up to 8 weeks) in the healing and symptomatic relief of erosive esophagitis (EE). For those adult patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of PROTONIX may be considered. 1.2 Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis PROTONIX is indicated for maintenance of healing of EE and reduction in relapse rates of daytime and nighttime heartburn symptoms in adult patients with GERD. 1.3 Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome PROTONIX is indicated for the long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pantoprazole sodium is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated in adults for the following: • Short-term treatment (7 to 10 days) of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) associated with a history of Erosive Esophagitis (EE). (1.1) • Pathological hypersecretion conditions including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome. (1.2) 1.1 Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease Associated with a History of Erosive Esophagitis Pantoprazole sodium for injection is indicated for short-term treatment (7 to 10 days) of adult patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and a history of erosive esophagitis (EE). Safety and efficacy of pantoprazole sodium for injection as a treatment of patients with GERD and a history of EE for more than 10 days have not been demonstrated. 1.2 Pathological Hypersecretion Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Pantoprazole sodium for injection is indicated for the treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome in adults.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION GERD and a History of EE Adults: The recommended dosage is 40 mg once daily by intravenous injection (over at least 2 minutes) or intravenous infusion (for 15 minutes) for up to 10 days. ( 2.1 ) Discontinue as soon as the patient is able to receive oral treatment. Switch to an appropriate oral medication within 10 days of starting pantoprazole sodium for injection. ( 2.1 ) Pathological Hypersecretion Conditions, Including ZE Syndrome The recommended adult dosage is 80 mg every 12 hours by intravenous injection (over at least 2 minutes) or intravenous infusion (for 15 minutes). ( 2.2 ) For information on how to adjust dosing for individual patient needs, see the full prescribing information. ( 2.2 ) When switching between intravenous to oral formulations of gastric acid inhibitors, consider the pharmacodynamic action of the drugs to ensure continuity of acid suppression. ( 2.2 ) Preparation and Administration Instructions See full prescribing information for preparation and administration instructions by indication. ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage for GERD Associated with a History of EE Adult Patients The recommended adult dosage of pantoprazole sodium for injection is 40 mg once daily by intravenous injection (over at least 2 minutes) or intravenous infusion (for 15 minutes) for up to 10 days. Discontinue pantoprazole sodium for injection as soon as the patient is able to tolerate oral treatment. Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc.'s PROTONIX® I.V. (pantoprazole sodium) for Injection. However, due to Pfizer Inc.'s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Pathological Hypersecretion Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome The recommended adult dosage of pantoprazole for injection is 80 mg every 12 hours by intravenous injection (over at least 2 minutes) or intravenous infusion (for 15 minutes). Adjust the frequency of dosing to individual patient needs based on acid output measurements. In those patients who need a higher dosage, 80 mg intravenously every 8 hours is expected to maintain acid output below 10 mEq/h. When switching between intravenous to oral formulations of gastric acid inhibitors, consider the pharmacodynamic action of the drugs to ensure continuity of acid suppression. 2.3 Preparation and Administration Instructions for GERD Associated with a History of EE 15-Minute Intravenous Infusion for Adult Patients 1. Reconstitute each vial of pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. 2. Dilute the resulting solution to a final concentration as described below: Adult patients : Further dilute with 100 mL 5% Dextrose Injection or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection to a final concentration of approximately 0.4 mg per mL. 3. Inspect the diluted pantoprazole sodium for injection solution visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to and during administration. 4. Withdraw the dose of the diluted pantoprazole sodium for injection solution for an adult dose. 6. Infuse intravenously over a period of approximately 15 minutes through a dedicated line or through a Y-site [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ) ] . 7. Flush the intravenous line before and after administration of pantoprazole sodium for injection with either 5% Dextrose Injection or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. Storage a. Store the reconstituted solution for up to 6 hours at room temperature up to 30°C (86°F) prior to further dilution. b. Store the diluted solution at room temperature up to 30°C (86°F) and must be used within 24 hours from the time of initial reconstitution. c. Do not freeze the reconstituted or diluted solution. 2-Minute Intravenous Injection for Adult Patients 1. Reconstitute each vial of pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, to a final concentration of approximately 4 mg per mL. Withdraw the dose of 40 mg of reconstituted pantoprazole sodium for injection solution. Administer intravenously over a period of at least 2 minutes. 5. Storage Store the reconstituted solution for up to 24 hours at room temperature up to 30°C (86°F) prior to intravenous infusion. Do not freeze the reconstituted solution. 2.4 Preparation and Administration Instructions for Pathological Hypersecretion Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome 15-Minute Intravenous Infusion Reconstitute each vial of pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. Combine the contents of the two vials and dilute with 80 mL of 5% Dextrose Injection or Sodium Chloride Injection to a total volume of 100 mL with a final concentration of approximately 0.8 mg per mL. Administer intravenously over a period of approximately 15 minutes at a rate of approximately 7 mL/min. Storage The reconstituted solution can be stored at room temperature up to 30°C (86°F) for up to 6 hours prior to further dilution. Once further diluted, the diluted solution can be stored at room temperature up to 30°C (86°F) for up to 24 hours from the time of initial reconstitution. 2-Minute Intravenous Injection Reconstitute each vial of pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, per vial to a final concentration of approximately 4 mg per mL. Administer the total volume from both vials intravenously over a period of at least 2 minutes. Storage The reconstituted solution may be stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature. 2.5 Compatibility Information Administer pantoprazole sodium for injection intravenously through a dedicated line or through a Y-site. When administering through a Y-site, pantoprazole sodium for injection is compatible with the following solutions: o 5% Dextrose Injection o 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection Midazolam hydrochloride is incompatible with Y-site administration of pantoprazole sodium for injection. Pantoprazole sodium for injection may not be compatible with products containing zinc [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Stop administering pantoprazole sodium for injection immediately through a Y-site if precipitation or discoloration occurs. Switch to an appropriate oral medication within 10 days of startingpantoprazole sodium for injection. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Pathological Hypersecretion Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome The recommended adult dosage of pantoprazole sodium for injection is 80 mg every 12 hours by intravenous injection (over at least 2 minutes) or intravenous infusion (for 15 minutes). Dilute the resulting solution to a final concentration as described below: Adult patients : Further dilute with 100 mL 5% Dextrose Injection or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection to a final concentration of approximately 0.4 mg/mL. Withdraw the dose of the diluted pantoprazole sodium for injection solution for a adult dose. Infuse intravenously over a period of approximately 15 minutes through a dedicated line or through a Y-site [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )]. Storage Store the reconstituted solution may be up to 6 hours at room temperature up to 30°C (86°F) prior to further dilution. 2-Minute Intravenous Injection for Adult Patients Reconstitute each vial of pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, to a final concentration of approximately 4 mg/mL. Storage Store the reconstituted solution may be stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature up to 30°C (86°F) prior to intravenous infusion. Combine the contents of the two vials and dilute with 80 mL of 5% Dextrose Injection or Sodium Chloride Injection to a total volume of 100 mL with a final concentration of approximately 0.8 mg/mL. 2-Minute Intravenous Injection Reconstitute each vial of pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, per vial to a final concentration of approximately 4 mg/mL. When administering through a Y-site, pantoprazole sodium for injection is compatible with the following solutions: 5% Dextrose Injection 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection Midazolam hydrochloride is incompatible with Y-site administration of pantoprazole sodium for injection. Pantoprazole sodium for injection may not be compatible with products containing zinc [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION * Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 months See full prescribing information for administration instructions Indication Dose Frequency Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With GERD ( 2.1 ) Adults 40 mg Once Daily for up to 8 wks Children (5 years and older) ≥ 15 kg to < 40 kg 20 mg Once Daily for up to 8 wks ≥ 40 kg 40 mg Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis ( 2.1 ) Adults 40 mg Once Daily* Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome ( 2.1 ) Adults 40 mg Twice Daily 2.1 Recommended Dosing Schedule Pantoprazole sodium is supplied as delayed-release tablets. The recommended dosages are outlined in Table 1. Table 1: Recommended Dosing Schedule for Pantoprazole Sodium * For adult patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of pantoprazole sodium may be considered. ** Dosage regimens should be adjusted to individual patient needs and should continue for as long as clinically indicated. Doses up to 240 mg daily have been administered. *** Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 months Indication Dose Frequency Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With GERD Adults 40 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks* Children (5 years and older) ≥ 15 kg to < 40 kg 20 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks ≥ 40 kg 40 mg Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis Adults 40 mg Once daily*** Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Adults 40 mg Twice daily** 2.2 Administration Instructions Directions for method of administration of pantoprazole sodium is presented in Table 2. Table 2: Administration Instructions * Do not split, chew, or crush pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets. Formulation Route Instructions* Delayed-Release Tablets Oral Swallowed whole, with or without food Take a missed dose as soon as possible. If it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and take the next dose at the regular scheduled time. Do not take 2 doses at the same time. Swallow pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets whole, with or without food in the stomach. For patients unable to swallow a 40 mg tablet, two 20 mg tablets may be taken. Concomitant administration of antacids does not affect the absorption of pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Dose Frequency Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With GERD (2.1) Adults 40 mg Once Daily for up to 8 weeks Children (5 years and older) ≥15 kg to < 40 kg 20 mg Once Daily for up to 8 weeks ≥ 40 kg 40 mg Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis (2.1) Adults 40 mg Once Daily* Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome (2.1) Adults 40 mg Twice Daily * Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 months See full prescribing information for administration instructions 2.1 Recommended Dosing Schedule Pantoprazole sodium is supplied as delayed-release tablets. Table 1: Recommended Dosing Schedule for Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets Indication Dose Frequency Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With GERD Adults 40 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks* Children (5 years and older) ≥15 kg to < 40 kg 20 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks ≥ 40 kg 40 mg Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis Adults 40 mg Once daily*** Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Adults 40 mg Twice daily** *For adult patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of pantoprazole sodium may be considered. *** Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 months. 2.2 Administration Instructions Directions for method of administration of pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are presented in Table 2. Table 2: Administration Instructions Formulation Route Instructions * Delayed-Release Tablets Oral Swallowed whole, with or without food * Do not split, chew, or crush pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets. Take a missed dose as soon as possible. Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets Swallow pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets whole, with or without food in the stomach. 2.1 Recommended Dosing Schedule Pantoprazole sodium is supplied as delayed-release tablets. Table 1: Recommended Dosing Schedule for Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets Indication Dose Frequency Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With GERD Adults 40 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks* Children (5 years and older) ≥ 15 kg to < 40 kg ≥ 40 kg 20 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks 40 mg Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis Adults 40 mg Once daily*** Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Adults 40 mg Twice daily ** * For adult patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets may be considered. 2.2 Administration Instructions Directions for method of administration for each dosage form are presented in Table 2. Table 2: Administration Instructions Formulation Route Instructions* Delayed-Release Tablets Oral Swallowed whole, with or without food * Do not split, chew, or crush Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . GERD and a History of EE Adults: • The recommended dosage is 40 mg once daily by intravenous injection (over at least 2 minutes) or intravenous infusion (for 15 minutes) for up to 10 days. ( 2.1 ) • Discontinue as soon as the patient is able to receive oral treatment. ( 2.1 ) Pathological Hypersecretion Conditions, Including ZE Syndrome • The recommended adult dosage is 80 mg every 12 hours by intravenous injection (over at least 2 minutes) or intravenous infusion (for 15 minutes). ( 2.2 ) • For information on how to adjust dosing for individual patient needs, see the full prescribing information. ( 2.2 ) • When switching between intravenous to oral formulations of gastric acid inhibitors, consider the pharmacodynamic action of the drugs to ensure continuity of acid suppression. ( 2.2 ) Preparation and Administration Instructions • See full prescribing information for preparation and administration instructions by indication. Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc.’s PROTONIX ® I.V. However, due to Pfizer Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Pathological Hypersecretion Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome • The recommended adult dosage of pantoprazole sodium for injection is 80 mg every 12 hours by intravenous injection (over at least 2 minutes) or intravenous infusion (for 15 minutes). • Adjust the frequency of dosing to individual patient needs based on acid output measurements. • When switching between intravenous to oral formulations of gastric acid inhibitors, consider the pharmacodynamic action of the drugs to ensure continuity of acid suppression. Dilute the resulting solution to a final concentration as described below: • Adult patients: Further dilute with 100 mL 5% Dextrose Injection or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection to a final concentration of approximately 0.4 mg/mL. Infuse intravenously over a period of approximately 15 minutes through a dedicated line or through a Y-site [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] . The reconstituted solution may be stored for up to 6 hours at room temperature up to 30°C (86ºF) prior to further dilution. Discard unused portion. Reconstitute each vial of pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, to a final concentration of approximately 4 mg/mL. Storage • The reconstituted solution may be stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature up to 30ºC (86ºF) prior to intravenous infusion. • Do not freeze the reconstituted solution. 2.4 Preparation and Administration Instructions for Pathological Hypersecretion Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome 15-Minute Intravenous Infusion 1. Storage • The reconstituted solution can be stored at room temperature up to 30°C (86ºF) for up to 6 hours prior to further dilution. • Once further diluted, the diluted solution can be stored at room temperature up to 30°C (86°F) for up to 24 hours from the time of initial reconstitution. • Do not freeze the reconstituted or diluted solution. 2-Minute Intravenous Injection 1. Reconstitute each vial of pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, per vial to a final concentration of approximately 4 mg/mL. Storage • The reconstituted solution may be stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature. When administered through a Y-site, pantoprazole sodium for injection is compatible with the following solutions: ◦ 5% Dextrose Injection ◦ 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection Midazolam hydrochloride is incompatible with Y-site administration of Pantoprazole sodium for injection Pantoprazole sodium for injection may not be compatible with products containing zinc [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Stop administering pantoprazole sodium for injection immediately through a Y-site if precipitation or discoloration occurs 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Dose Frequency Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With GERD ( 2.1 ) Adults 40 mg Once Daily for up to 8 wks Children (5 years and older) ≥ 15 kg to < 40 kg 20 mg Once Daily for up to 8 wks ≥ 40 kg 40 mg Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis ( 2.1 ) Adults 40 mg Once Daily* Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome ( 2.1 ) Adults 40 mg Twice Daily * Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 months See full prescribing information for administration instructions 2.1 Recommended Dosing Schedule Pantoprazole sodium is supplied as delayed-release tablets. Table 1: Recommended Dosing Schedule for Pantoprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets Indication Dose Frequency Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With GERD Adults 40 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks* Children (5 years and older) ≥ 15 kg to < 40 kg 20 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks ≥ 40 kg 40 mg Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis Adults 40 mg Once daily*** Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Adults 40 mg Twice daily ** * For adult patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets may be considered. *** Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 months 2.2 Administration Instructions Directions for method of administration for each dosage form are presented in Table 2. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Dose Frequency Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With GERD ( 2.1 ) Adults 40 mg Once Daily for up to 8 wks Children (5 years and older) ≥ 15 kg to < 40 kg 20 mg Once Daily for up to 8 wks ≥ 40 kg 40 mg Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis ( 2.1 ) Adults 40 mg Once Daily Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 months Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome ( 2.1 ) Adults 40 mg Twice Daily See full prescribing information for administration instructions 2.1 Recommended Dosing Schedule PROTONIX is supplied as delayed-release granules in packets for preparation of oral suspensions or as delayed-release tablets. Table 1: Recommended Dosing Schedule for PROTONIX Indication Dose Frequency Short-Term Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis Associated With GERD Adults 40 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks For adult patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of PROTONIX may be considered. Children (5 years and older) ≥ 15 kg to < 40 kg 20 mg Once daily for up to 8 weeks ≥ 40 kg 40 mg Maintenance of Healing of Erosive Esophagitis Adults 40 mg Once daily Controlled studies did not extend beyond 12 months Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Adults 40 mg Twice daily Dosage regimens should be adjusted to individual patient needs and should continue for as long as clinically indicated. Table 2: Administration Instructions Formulation Route Instructions Do not split, chew, or crush PROTONIX Delayed-Release Tablets and PROTONIX For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension. Delayed-Release Tablets Oral Swallowed whole, with or without food For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension Oral Administered in 1 teaspoonful of applesauce or apple juice approximately 30 minutes prior to a meal For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension Nasogastric tube See instructions below Take a missed dose as soon as possible. PROTONIX Delayed-Release Tablets Swallow PROTONIX Delayed-Release Tablets whole, with or without food in the stomach. Concomitant administration of antacids does not affect the absorption of PROTONIX Delayed-Release Tablets. PROTONIX For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension Administer PROTONIX For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension approximately 30 minutes prior to a meal via oral administration in apple juice or applesauce or nasogastric tube in apple juice only. Because proper pH is necessary for stability, do not administer PROTONIX For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension in liquids other than apple juice, or foods other than applesauce. Do not divide the 40 mg PROTONIX For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension packet to create a 20 mg dosage for pediatric patients who are unable to take the tablet formulation. PROTONIX For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension - Oral Administration in Applesauce • Open packet. • Sprinkle granules on one teaspoonful of applesauce. DO NOT USE OTHER FOODS OR CRUSH OR CHEW THE GRANULES. • Take within 10 minutes of preparation. • Take sips of water to make sure granules are washed down into the stomach. Repeat water sips as necessary. PROTONIX For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension - Oral Administration in Apple Juice • Open packet. • Empty granules into a small cup or teaspoon containing one teaspoon of apple juice. • Stir for 5 seconds (granules will not dissolve) and swallow immediately. • To make sure that the entire dose is taken, rinse the container once or twice with apple juice to remove any remaining granules. Swallow immediately. PROTONIX For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension - Nasogastric (NG) Tube or Gastrostomy Tube Administration For patients who have a nasogastric tube or gastrostomy tube in place, PROTONIX For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension can be given as follows: • Remove the plunger from the barrel of a 2 ounce (60 mL) catheter-tip syringe. Discard the plunger. • Connect the catheter tip of the syringe to a 16 French (or larger) tube. • Hold the syringe attached to the tubing as high as possible while giving PROTONIX For Delayed-Release Oral Suspension to prevent any bending of the tubing. • Empty the contents of the packet into the barrel of the syringe. • Add 10 mL (2 teaspoonfuls) of apple juice and gently tap and/or shake the barrel of the syringe to help rinse the syringe and tube. Repeat at least twice more using the same amount of apple juice (10 mL or 2 teaspoonfuls) each time. No granules should remain in the syringe. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION GERD Associated with EE (2.1) • The recommended adult dosage is 40 mg given once daily by intravenous infusion for 7 to 10 days. (2.1) Pathological Hypersecretion Conditions, Including ZE Syndrome (2.3) : • The recommended adult dosage is 80 mg administered every 12 hours by intravenous infusion. For information on how to adjust dosing for individual patient needs, see the full prescribing information. Administration (2.2 , 2.4 ): • Only for intravenous infusion. • The intravenous infusion can be administered over 2 minutes or 15 minutes. • For information on how to prepare and administer for each indication, see the full prescribing information. 2.1 Dosage for Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease Associated With a History of Erosive Esophagitis The recommended adult dosage of pantoprazole sodium for injection is 40 mg given once daily by intravenous infusion for 7 to 10 days. Discontinue treatment with pantoprazole sodium for injection as soon as the patient is able to receive treatment with pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets or oral suspension. Data on the safe and effective dosing for conditions other than those described [see Indications and Usage (1)] such as life-threatening upper gastrointestinal bleeds, are not available. Pantoprazole sodium for injection 40 mg once daily does not raise gastric pH to levels sufficient to contribute to the treatment of such life-threatening conditions. 2.2 Preparation and Administration Instructions for Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease Associated with a History of Erosive Esophagitis Only for intravenous infusion; other parenteral routes of administration are not recommended. Fifteen Minute Infusion 1. Reconstitute pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP. Further dilute with 100 mL of 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, or Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP, to a final concentration of approximately 0.4 mg/mL. Inspect the diluted pantoprazole sodium for injection solution visually for particular matter and discoloration prior to and during administration. Storage The reconstituted solution may be stored for up to 6 hours at room temperature prior to further dilution. The admixed solution may be stored at room temperature and must be used within 24 hours from the time of initial reconstitution. Both the reconstituted solution and the admixed solution do not need to be protected from light. Two Minute Infusion 1. Reconstitute pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, to a final concentration of approximately 4 mg/mL. Storage The reconstituted solution may be stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature prior to intravenous infusion and does not need to be protected from light. 2.3 Dosage for Pathological Hypersecretion Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome The recommended adult dosage of pantoprazole sodium for injection is 80 mg intravenously every 12 hours. The frequency of dosing can be adjusted to individual patient needs based on acid output measurements. Daily doses higher than 240 mg or administered for more than 6 days have not been studied [see Clinical Studies (14)] . Transition from oral to intravenous and from intravenous to oral formulations of gastric acid inhibitors should be performed in such a manner to ensure continuity of effect of suppression of acid secretion. Patients with ZE Syndrome may be vulnerable to serious clinical complications of increased acid production even after a short period of loss of effective inhibition. 2.4 Preparation and Administration Instructions for Pathological Hypersecretion Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Only for intravenous infusion; other parenteral routes of administration are not recommended. Reconstitute each vial of pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP. Combine the contents of the two vials and further dilute with 80 mL of 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, or Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP, to a total volume of 100 mL with a final concentration of approximately 0.8 mg/mL. Reconstitute pantoprazole sodium for injection with 10 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, per vial to a final concentration of approximately 4 mg/mL. 2.5 Compatibility Information • Administer pantoprazole sodium for injection intravenously through a dedicated line or through a Y-site. • Flush the intravenous line before and after administration of pantoprazole sodium for injection with either 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, or Lactated Ringer’s Injection, USP. • When administered through a Y-site, pantoprazole sodium for injection is compatible with the following solutions: 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, or Lactated Ringer’s Injection, USP. • Midazolam HCl has been shown to be incompatible with Y-site administration of pantoprazole sodium for injection. • Pantoprazole sodium for injection may not be compatible with products containing zinc [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3 )]. • When pantoprazole sodium for injection is administered through a Y-site, immediately stop use if precipitation or discoloration occurs.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Pantoprazole sodium is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis to the formulation or any substituted benzimidazole. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.4 ) and Adverse Reactions (6) ] . Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including pantoprazole sodium, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Known hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation or to substituted benzimidazoles. ( 4 ) Patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products. ( 4 , 7 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Pantoprazole sodium for injection is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis to the formulation or any substituted benzimidazole. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.4 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 )]. Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including pantoprazole sodium for injection, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Pantoprazole sodium is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation or any substituted benzimidazole. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6) ]. Patients with known hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation or to substituted benzimidazoles ( 4 ) Patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products ( 4 , 7 ) Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6) ] . Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including pantoprazole sodium is contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . • Pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation or any substituted benzimidazole. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2), Adverse Reactions ( 6)]. • Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions ( 7)]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis to the formulation or any substituted benzimidazole. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.4) , Adverse Reactions (6) ] . • Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including pantoprazole sodium for injection, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . • known hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation or to substituted benzimidazoles. ( 4 ) • Patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation or any substituted benzimidazole. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Adverse Reactions (6 ) ]. • Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including pantoprazole sodium delayed-release tablets, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ]. Patients with known hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation or to substituted benzimidazoles ( 4) Patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products ( 4 , 7 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • PROTONIX is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation or any substituted benzimidazole. • Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including PROTONIX, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . • Patients with known hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation or to substituted benzimidazoles ( 4 ) • Patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products ( 4 , 7 ) Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.4 ), Adverse Reactions (6)] . • Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), including pantoprazole sodium for injection, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions (7)] . • Patients with a known hypersensitivity to any component of the formulation or to substituted benzimidazoles. (4) • Patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products. (4 , 7)
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See the full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions. ( 7 ) Table 3 includes drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with pantoprazole sodium and instructions for preventing or managing them. Consult the labeling of concomitantly used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with PPIs. Table 3: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Co-Administered with Pantoprazole Sodium and Interaction with Diagnostics Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact: The effect of PPIs on antiretroviral drugs is variable. The clinical importance and the mechanisms behind these interactions are not always known. Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine atazanavir, and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with pantoprazole sodium may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance. Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with pantoprazole sodium may increase toxicity of the antiretroviral drugs. There are other antiretroviral drugs which do not result in clinically relevant interactions with pantoprazole sodium. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with pantoprazole sodium is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . See prescribing information. Atazanavir: See prescribing information for atazanavir for dosing information. Nelfinavir: Avoid concomitant use with pantoprazole sodium. See prescribing information for nelfinavir. Saquinavir: See the prescribing information for saquinavir and monitor for potential saquinavir toxicities. Other antiretrovirals: See prescribing information. Warfarin Clinical Impact: Increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving PPIs, including pantoprazole sodium, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Intervention: Monitor INR and prothrombin time. Dose adjustment of warfarin may be needed to maintain target INR range. See prescribing information for warfarin. Clopidogrel Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of pantoprazole sodium and clopidogrel in healthy subjects had no clinically important effect on exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel or clopidogrel-induced platelet inhibition [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: No dose adjustment of clopidogrel is necessary when administered with an approved dose of pantoprazole sodium. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate (primarily at high dose) may elevate and prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) ] . Intervention: A temporary withdrawal of pantoprazole sodium may be considered in some patients receiving high-dose methotrexate. Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption (e.g., iron salts, erlotinib, dasatinib, nilotinib, mycophenolate mofetil, ketoconazole/itraconazole) Clinical Impact: Pantoprazole can reduce the absorption of other drugs due to its effect on reducing intragastric acidity. Intervention: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Co-administration of pantoprazole sodium in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving pantoprazole sodium and MMF. Use pantoprazole sodium with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF. See the prescribing information for other drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption. Interactions with Investigations of Neuroendocrine Tumors Clinical Impact: CgA levels increase secondary to PPI-induced decreases in gastric acidity. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Intervention: Temporarily stop pantoprazole sodium treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. If serial tests are performed (e.g., for monitoring), the same commercial laboratory should be used for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary. False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact: There have been reports of false positive urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving PPIs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] . Intervention: An alternative confirmatory method should be considered to verify positive results. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 3 includes drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with pantoprazole sodium for injection and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 3: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Co-Administered with Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection and Interaction with Diagnostics Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact: The effect of PPIs on antiretroviral drugs is variable. Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine atazanavir, and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with pantoprazole may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance. Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with pantoprazole may increase toxicity of the antiretroviral drugs . There are other antiretroviral drugs which do not result in clinically relevant interactions with pantoprazole. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with pantoprazole sodium for injection is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Nelfinavir: Avoid concomitant use with pantoprazole sodium for injection. Warfarin Clinical Impact: Increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving PPIs, including pantoprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Clopidogrel Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of pantoprazole and clopidogrel in healthy subjects had no clinically important effect on exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel or clopidogrel-induced platelet inhibition [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: No dose adjustment of clopidogrel is necessary when administered with an approved dose of pantoprazole sodium for injection. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 )] . Intervention: A temporary withdrawal of pantoprazole sodium for injection may be considered in some patients receiving high-dose methotrexate. Intervention: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Co-administration of pantoprazole sodium in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving pantoprazole sodium for injection and MMF. Use pantoprazole sodium for injection with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )] . Intervention: Temporarily stop pantoprazole sodium for injection treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact: There have been reports of false positive urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving PPIs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 )] . See the full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions. (7) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 4 includes drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with pantoprazole sodium and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 4: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Co-Administered with Pantoprazole Sodium and Interactions with Diagnostics Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact: The effect of PPIs on antiretroviral drugs is variable. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with pantoprazole sodium are contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . Clopidogrel Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of pantoprazole and clopidogrel in healthy subjects had no clinically important effect on exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel or clopidogrel-induced platelet inhibition [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] . The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact: There have been reports of false positive urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving PPIs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . See full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions ( 7 ) Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with pantoprazole may increase toxicity of the antiretroviral drugs. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 )]. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )]. If serial tests are performed (e.g. for monitoring), the same commercial laboratory should be used for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary. False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact: There have been reports of false positive urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving PPIs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )]. See full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions. ( 7 ) Table 4 includes drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with pantoprazole sodium and instructions for preventing or managing them. • Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine atazanavir, and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with pantoprazole may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance. • Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with pantoprazole may increase toxicity of the antiretroviral drugs. • There are other antiretroviral drugs which do not result in clinically relevant interactions with pantoprazole. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with pantoprazole sodium is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4)] . Clopidogrel Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of pantoprazole and clopidogrel in healthy subjects had no clinically important effect on exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel or clopidogrel-induced platelet inhibition [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)]. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13)] . Intervention: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Co-administration of pantoprazole sodium in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)] . The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2)] . False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact: There have been reports of false positive urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving PPIs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12)] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 2 includes drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with pantoprazole sodium for injection and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 2: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Co-Administered with Pantoprazole Sodium for Injection and Interaction with Diagnostics Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact: The effect of PPIs on antiretroviral drugs is variable. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with pantoprazole sodium for injection is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . Nelfinavir: Avoid concomitant use with pantoprazole sodium for injection See prescribing information for nelfinavir. Intervention: No dose adjustment of clopidogrel is necessary when administered with an approved dose of pantoprazole sodium for injection.. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12 and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . See the full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions ( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS . Pregnancy : Based on animal data, may cause fetal harm. ( 8.1 ) See 17 for PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION. Pediatric use information is approved for Pfizer Inc.’s PROTONIX ® I.V. (pantoprazole sodium) for Injection. However, due to Pfizer Inc.›s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. Revised: 05/2025 8.1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from published observational studies did not demonstrate an association of major malformations or other adverse pregnancy outcomes with pantoprazole. In animal reproduction studies, no evidence of adverse development outcomes was observed with pantoprazole sodium. Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at intravenous doses up to 20 mg/kg/day (4 times the recommended human dose) and rabbits at intravenous doses up to 15 mg/kg/day (6 times the recommended human dose) with administration of pantoprazole during organogenesis in pregnant animals and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to pantoprazole in this study (see Data ). A pre- and post-natal development toxicity study in rats with additional endpoints to evaluate the effect on bone development was performed with pantoprazole sodium. Oral pantoprazole doses of 5, 15, and 30 mg/kg/day (approximately 1, 3, and 6 times the human dose of 40 mg/day) were administered to pregnant females from gestation day (GD) 6 through lactation day (LD) 21. Changes in bone morphology were observed in pups exposed to pantoprazole in utero and through milk during the period of lactation as well as by oral dosing from postnatal day (PND) 4 through PND 21 [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. There were no drug-related findings in maternal animals. Advise pregnant women of the potential risk of fetal harm. The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown. All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect, loss or other adverse outcomes. In the U.S. general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in the clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4% and 15 to 20%, respectively. Data Human Data Available data from published observational studies failed to demonstrate an association of adverse pregnancy-related outcomes and pantoprazole use. Methodological limitations of these observational studies cannot definitely establish or exclude any drug associated risk during pregnancy. In a prospective study by the European Network of Teratology Information Services, outcomes from a group of 53 pregnant women administered median daily doses of 40 mg pantoprazole were compared to a control group of 868 pregnant women who did not take any proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). There was no difference in the rate of major malformations between women exposed to PPIs and the control group, corresponding to a Relative Risk (RR)=0.55, [95% Confidence Interval (CI) 0.08-3.95]. In a population-based retrospective cohort study covering all live births in Denmark from 1996 to 2008, there was no significant increase in major birth defects during analysis of first trimester exposure to pantoprazole in 549 live births. A meta-analysis that compared 1,530 pregnant women exposed to PPIs in at least the first trimester with 133,410 unexposed pregnant women showed no significant increases in risk for congenital malformations or spontaneous abortion with exposure to PPIs (for major malformations OR=1.12 ([95% CI 0.86-1.45] and for spontaneous abortions OR=1.29 [95% CI 0.84-1.97]). Animal Data Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at intravenous pantoprazole doses up to 20 mg/kg/day (4 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area) and rabbits at intravenous doses up to 15 mg/kg/day (6 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area) with administration of pantoprazole sodium during organogenesis in pregnant animals and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to pantoprazole. Oral pantoprazole doses of 5, 15, and 30 mg/kg/day (approximately 1, 3, and 6 times the human dose of 40 mg/day on a body surface area basis) were administered to pregnant females from gestation day (GD) 6 through lactation day (LD) 21. On postnatal day (PND 4) through PND 21, the pups were administered oral doses at 5, 15, and 30 mg/kg/day (approximately 1, 2.3, and 3.2 times the exposure (AUC) in humans at a dose of 40 mg). During the preweaning dosing phase (PND 4 to 21) of the pups, there were increased mortality and/or moribundity and decreased body weight and body weight gain at 5 mg/kg/day (approximately equal exposures (AUC) in humans receiving the 40 mg dose) and higher doses. On PND 21, decreased mean femur length and weight and changes in femur bone mass and geometry were observed in the offspring at 5 mg/kg/day (approximately equal exposures (AUC) in humans at the 40 mg dose) and higher doses. The femur findings included lower total area, bone mineral content and density, periosteal and endosteal circumference, and cross-sectional moment of inertia. There were no microscopic changes in the distal femur, proximal tibia, or stifle joints. Changes in bone parameters were partially reversible following a recovery period, with findings on PND 70 limited to lower femur metaphysis cortical/subcortical bone mineral density in female pups at 5 mg/kg/day (approximately equal exposures (AUC) in humans at the 40 mg dose) and higher doses. 8.2 Lactation . Risk Summary The limited data from a single case report the presence of pantoprazole in human breast milk. There were no effects on the breastfed infant (see Data ) . There are no data on pantoprazole effects on milk production. The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother's clinical need for pantoprazole sodium for injection and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from pantoprazole or from the underlying maternal condition. Data The breast milk of a 42-year-old woman receiving 40 mg of oral pantoprazole, at 10 months postpartum, was studied for 24 hours, to demonstrate low levels of pantoprazole present in the breast milk. Pantoprazole was detectable in milk only 2 and 4 hours after the dose with milk levels of approximately 36 mcg/L and 24 mcg/L, respectively. A milk-to-plasma ratio of 0.022 was observed at 2 hours after drug administration. Pantoprazole was not detectable (<10 mcg/L) in milk at 6, 8 and 24 hours after the dose. The relative dose to the infant was estimated to be 7.3 mcg of pantoprazole, which is equivalent to 0.14% of the weight-adjusted maternal dose. No adverse events in the infant were reported by the mother. 8.4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of pantoprazole sodium for injection have not been established in patients less than 3 months of age for the treatment of GERD and a history of EE. The safety and effectiveness of pantoprazole sodium for injection have not been established in pediatric patients for the treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions including ZE syndrome. Animal Toxicity Data In neonatal/juvenile animals (rats and dogs) toxicities were similar to those observed in adult animals, including gastric alterations, decreases in red cell mass, increases in lipids, enzyme induction and hepatocellular hypertrophy. An increased incidence of eosinophilic chief cells in adult and neonatal/juvenile rats, and atrophy of chief cells in adult rats and in neonatal/juvenile dogs, was observed in the fundic mucosa of stomachs in repeated-dose studies. Full to partial recovery of these effects were noted in animals of both age groups following a recovery period. However, due to Pfizer Inc.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 8.5 Geriatric Use Of 286 patients in clinical studies of intravenous pantoprazole sodium in patients with GERD and a history of EE, 86 (43%) were 65 years of age and over. No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these geriatric and younger adult patients, and other reported clinical experience with oral pantoprazole sodium has not identified differences in responses between geriatric and younger adult patients, but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out. No clinically meaningful differences in the pharmacokinetics of pantoprazole were observed in geriatric subjects compared to younger adult subjects [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with pantoprazole sodium is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 ) ]. Clopidogrel Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of pantoprazole and clopidogrel in healthy subjects had no clinically important effect on exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel or clopidogrel-induced platelet inhibition [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 ) ]. Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption (e.g., iron salts, erlotinib, dasatinib, nilotinib, mycophenolate mofetil, ketoconazole / itraconazole ) Clinical Impact: Pantoprazole can reduce the absorption of other drugs due to its effect on reducing intragastric acidity. Intervention: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Co-administration of pantoprazole sodium in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) ]. False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact: There have been reports of false positive urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving PPIs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 ) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 4 includes drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with PROTONIX and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 4: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Co-Administered with PROTONIX and Interactions with Diagnostics Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact: The effect of PPIs on antiretroviral drugs is variable. • Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with pantoprazole may increase toxicity of the antiretroviral drugs . Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with PROTONIX is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . Nelfinavir: Avoid concomitant use with PROTONIX. Intervention: No dose adjustment of clopidogrel is necessary when administered with an approved dose of PROTONIX. Intervention: A temporary withdrawal of PROTONIX may be considered in some patients receiving high-dose methotrexate. The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving PROTONIX and MMF. Use PROTONIX with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF. Intervention: Temporarily stop PROTONIX treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with pantoprazole sodium for injection is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)] . Atazanavir : See prescribing information for atazanavir for dosing information. Clopidogrel Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of pantoprazole and clopidogrel in healthy subjects had no clinically important effect on exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel or clopidogrel-induced platelet inhibition [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)]. Intervention: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Co-administration of pantoprazole sodium in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12), Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)] . False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact: There have been reports of false positive urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving PPIs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] . See the full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions (7)

=== POLYETHYLENE GLYCOL 400 ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Lubricant Purposes Lubricant Redness reliever Purposes Lubricant Lubricant Purposes Dextran 70.....Lubricant Polyethylene glycol 400.....Lubricant Povidone.....Lubricant Tetrahydrozoline HCl .....Redness reliever ​Purpose Glycerin.....Lubricant Hypromellose.....Lubricant Polyethylene glycol 400.....Lubricant Active Ingredients Purpose Polyethylene Glycol 400 0.4% Lubricant Propylene Glycol 0.3% Lubricant Purpose Lubricant Lubricant
Indications: Uses for protection against further irritation for temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye Uses relieves redness of the eye due to minor eye irritations as a lubricant to prevent further irritation or to relieve dryness of the eye Uses for temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye Use for the temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness if the eye Uses • relieves redness of the eye due to minor eye irritations • as a lubricant to prevent further irritation or to relieve dryness of the eye ​Uses for the temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye for protection against further irritation Uses for the temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye for the temporary relief of discomfort due to minor irritations of the eye or to exposure to wind or sun Uses for the temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye Use for the temporary relief of burning and irritation of the eye due to dryness of the eye
Dosage: Directions instill 1 to 2 drops in the affected eye(s) as needed Directions instill 1 to 2 drops in the affected eye(s) up to 4 times daily Directions instill 1 or 2 drops in the affected eye(s) as needed Directions Instill 1 to 2 drops in the affected eye(s) up to 4 times daily. Relabeled By: Preferred Pharmaceuticals Inc. NDC 68788-8635-1 Directions Instill 1 or 2 drops in the affected eye(s) as needed Children under 6 years of age: ask doctor Directions shake well before using put 1 or 2 drops in the affected eye(s) as needed Directions Instill 1 or 2 drops in the affected eye(s) as needed. Children under 6 years of age: ask a doctor
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Do not use this product if solution changes color or becomes cloudy When using this product to avoid contamination, do not touch tip of container to any surface. Replace cap after using. remove contact lenses before using Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience eye pain changes in vision continued redness or irritation of the eye, or if the condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor before use if you have narrow angle glaucoma When using this product pupils may become enlarged temporarily to avoid contamination, do not touch tip of container to any surface. if solution changes color or becomes cloudy, do not use overuse may produce increased redness of the eye remove contact lenses before using Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience eye pain changes in vision continued redness or irritation of the eye, or if the condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Warnings For external use only Do not use if this product changes color or becomes cloudy if you are sensitive to any ingredient in this product When using this product do not touch tip of container to any surface to avoid contamination replace cap after each use Stop use and ask a doctor if you feel eye pain changes in vision occur redness or irritation of the eye(s) gets worse or lasts more than 72 hours If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor before use if you have narrow angle glaucoma Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience • eye pain • changes in vision • continued redness or irritation of the eye, or if the condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours When using this product • pupils may become enlarged temporarily • to avoid contamination, do not touch tip of container to any surface. • if solution changed color or becomes cloudy, do not use • overuse may produce increased redness of the eye • remove contact lens before using If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a health professional before use. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison control Center (1-800-111-1222) right away. if solution changes color or becomes cloudy, do not use overuse may produce increased redness of the eye remove contact lens before using Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience eye pain changes in vision continued redness or irritation of the eye, or if the condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. ​Warnings For external use only Do not use this product if solution changes color or becomes cloudy Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience eye pain changes in vision continued redness or irritation of the eye or if the condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours When using this product to avoid contamination, do not touch tip of container to any surface replace cap after using. Keep container tightly closed remove contact lens before using Keep out of reach of children If accidentally swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately If pregnant and breast-feeding , ask a health professional before use Warnings For external use only Warnings for external use only Do not use if this product changes color or becomes cloudy if you are sensitive to any ingredient in this product When using this product do not touch tip of container to any surface to avoid contamination replace cap after each use Stop use and ask a doctor if you feel eye pain changes in vision occur redness or irritation of the eye(s), gets worse or lasts more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Warnings For external use only Do not use if this solution changes color or becomes cloudy if you are sensitive to any ingredient in this product When using this product to avoid contamination, do not touch tip of container to any surface. do not reuse. Once opened, discard. Stop use and ask a doctor if you feel eye pain changes in vision occur redness or irritation of the eye(s) gets worse or lasts more than 72 hours If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use.

=== PROPYLENE GLYCOL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purposes Lubricant Lubricant Purpose Lubricant Lubricant Active Ingredients Purpose Polyethylene Glycol 400 0.4% Lubricant Propylene Glycol 0.3% Lubricant Purpose Propylene glycol............ Lubricant
Indications: Uses for temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye Use for the temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness if the eye Uses temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye prevents further irritation Uses for the temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye for the temporary relief of discomfort due to minor irritations of the eye or to exposure to wind or sun Uses for the temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye Use for the temporary relief of burning and irritation of the eye due to dryness of the eye Uses • for the temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Atorvastatin Calcium Tablets are indicated: To reduce the risk of: Myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, revascularization procedures, and angina in adults with multiple risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) but without clinically evident CHD MI and stroke in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus with multiple risk factors for CHD but without clinically evident CHD Non-fatal MI, fatal and non-fatal stroke, revascularization procedures, hospitalization for congestive heart failure, and angina in adults with clinically evident CHD As an adjunct to diet to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in: Adults with primary hyperlipidemia. Adults and pediatric patients aged 10 years and older with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH). As an adjunct to other LDL-C-lowering therapies, or alone if such treatments are unavailable, to reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients aged 10 years and older with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH). As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with: Primary dysbetalipoproteinemia Hypertriglyceridemia Atorvastatin calcium tablets are an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) indicated ( 1 ): To reduce the risk of: Myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, revascularization procedures, and angina in adults with multiple risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) but without clinically evident CHD. MI and stroke in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus with multiple risk factors for CHD but without clinically evident CHD. Non-fatal MI, fatal and non-fatal stroke, revascularization procedures, hospitalization for congestive heart failure, and angina in adults with clinically evident CHD. As an adjunct to diet to reduce low-density lipoprotein (LDL-C) in: Adults with primary hyperlipidemia. As an adjunct to other LDL-C-lowering therapies to reduce LDL-C in adults and pediatric patients aged 10 years and older with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with: Primary dysbetalipoproteinemia. Hypertriglyceridemia. As an adjunct to diet for the treatment of adults with: Primary dysbetaliproteinemia.
Dosage: Directions instill 1 or 2 drops in the affected eye(s) as needed Directions shake well before using put 1 or 2 drops in the affected eye(s) as needed Directions Instill 1 or 2 drops in the affected eye(s) as needed. Children under 6 years of age: ask a doctor Directions Shake well before using. Instill 1 or 2 drops in the affected eye(s) as needed 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take orally once daily with or without food ( 2.1 ). Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating atorvastatin calcium, and adjust dosage if necessary ( 2.1 ). Adults ( 2.2 ): Recommended starting dosage is 10 or 20 mg once daily; dosage range is 10 mg to 80 mg once daily. Patients requiring LDL-C reduction >45% may start at 40 mg once daily. Pediatric Patients Aged 10 Years of Age and Older with HeFH: Recommended starting dosage is 10 mg once daily; dosage range is 10 to 20 mg once daily ( 2.3 ). Pediatric Patients Aged 10 Years of Age and Older with HoFH: Recommended starting dosage is 10 to 20 mg once daily; dosage range is 10 to 80 mg once daily ( 2.4 ). See full prescribing information for atorvastatin calcium tablets dosage modifications due to drug interactions ( 2.5 ). 2.1 Important Dosage Information Take atorvastatin calcium tablet orally once daily at any time of the day, with or without food. Assess LDL-C when clinically appropriate, as early as 4 weeks after initiating atorvastatin calcium tablets, and adjust the dosage if necessary. If a dose is missed, advise patients not to take the missed dose and resume with the next scheduled dose. 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients The recommended starting dosage of atorvastatin calcium is 10 mg to 20 mg once daily. The dosage range is 10 mg to 80 mg once daily. Patients who require reduction in LDL-C greater than 45% may be started at 40 mg once daily. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 10 Years of Age and Older with HeFH The recommended starting dosage of atorvastatin calcium is 10 mg once daily. The dosage range is 10 mg to 20 mg once daily. 2.4 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients 10 Years of Age and Older with HoFH The recommended starting dosage of atorvastatin calcium is 10 mg to 20 mg once daily. 2.5 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Concomitant use of atorvastatin with the following drugs requires dosage modification of atorvastatin [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . Anti-Viral Medications In patients taking saquinavir plus ritonavir, darunavir plus ritonavir, fosamprenavir, fosamprenavir plus ritonavir, elbasvir plus grazoprevir or letermovir, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium 20 mg once daily. In patients taking nelfinavir, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium 40 mg once daily. Select Azole Antifungals or Macrolide Antibiotics In patients taking clarithromycin or itraconazole, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium 20 mg once daily. For additional recommendations regarding concomitant use of atorvastatin calcium with other anti-viral medications, azole antifungals or macrolide antibiotics, see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ). 2.5 Dosage Modifications Due to Drug Interactions Concomitant use of atorvastatin with the following drugs requires dosage modification of atorvastatin [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) ]. For additional recommendations regarding concomitant use of atorvastatin calcium with other anti-viral medications, azole antifungals or macrolide antibiotics, see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) .
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Do not use if this product changes color or becomes cloudy if you are sensitive to any ingredient in this product When using this product do not touch tip of container to any surface to avoid contamination replace cap after each use Stop use and ask a doctor if you feel eye pain changes in vision occur redness or irritation of the eye(s) gets worse or lasts more than 72 hours If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings For external use only Do not use if solution changes color or becomes cloudy When using this product do not touch tip of container to any surface to avoid contamination remove contact lenses before using replace cap after use Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience eye pain, changes in vision, continued redness or irritation of the eye condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Warnings for external use only Do not use if this product changes color or becomes cloudy if you are sensitive to any ingredient in this product When using this product do not touch tip of container to any surface to avoid contamination replace cap after each use Stop use and ask a doctor if you feel eye pain changes in vision occur redness or irritation of the eye(s), gets worse or lasts more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Warnings For external use only Do not use if this solution changes color or becomes cloudy if you are sensitive to any ingredient in this product When using this product to avoid contamination, do not touch tip of container to any surface. do not reuse. Once opened, discard. Stop use and ask a doctor if you feel eye pain changes in vision occur redness or irritation of the eye(s) gets worse or lasts more than 72 hours If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Warnings For external use only Do not use • if this product changes color • if you are sensitive to any ingredient in this product When using this product • do not touch the tip of container to any surface to avoid contamination • replace cap after each use Stop use and ask a doctor if • you experience eye pain • changes in vision occur • redness or irritation of the eye(s) gets worse, persists or lasts more than 72 hours
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] Hypersensitivity to atorvastatin or any excipients in atorvastatin calcium tablets. Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioneurotic edema, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis, have been reported [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis ( 4 ). Hypersensitivity to atorvastatin or any excipient in atorvastatin calcium tablets ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ] Hypersensitivity to atorvastatin or any excipients in atorvastatin calcium tablets. Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioneurotic edema, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis, have been reported [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ) ].
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for details regarding concomitant use of atorvastatin calcium with other drugs or grapefruit juice that increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis ( 2.5 , 7.1 ). Rifampin: May reduce atorvastatin plasma concentrations. Administer simultaneously with atorvastatin ( 7.2 ). Oral Contraceptives: May increase plasma levels of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol; consider this effect when selecting an oral contraceptive ( 7.3 ). Digoxin: May increase digoxin plasma levels; monitor patients appropriately ( 7.3 ). 7.1 Drug Interactions that may Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Atorvastatin Calcium Atorvastatin calcium is a substrate of CYP3A4 and transporters (e.g., OATP1B1/1B3, P-gp, or BCRP). Atorvastatin calcium plasma levels can be significantly increased with concomitant administration of inhibitors of CYP3A4 and transporters. Table 2 includes a list of drugs that may increase exposure to atorvastatin and may increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly and instructions for preventing or managing them [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Table 2: Drug Interactions that may Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Atorvastatin Calcium Cyclosporine or Gemfibrozil Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin calcium and cyclosporine, an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and OATP1B1 [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Gemfibrozil may cause myopathy when given alone. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of cyclosporine or gemfibrozil with atorvastatin calcium. Intervention: Concomitant use of cyclosporine or gemfibrozil with atorvastatin calcium is not recommended. Anti-Viral Medications Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin calcium with many anti-viral medications, which are inhibitors of CYP3A4 and/or transporters (e.g., BCRP, OATP1B1/1B3, P-gp, MRP2, and/or OAT2) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with concomitant use of ledipasvir plus sofosbuvir with atorvastatin calcium. Intervention: Concomitant use of tipranavir plus ritonavir or glecaprevir plus pibrentasvir with atorvastatin calcium is not recommended. In patients taking lopinavir plus ritonavir, or simeprevir, consider the risk/benefit of concomitant use with atorvastatin. In patients taking saquinavir plus ritonavir, darunavir plus ritonavir, fosamprenavir, fosamprenavir plus ritonavir, elbasvir plus grazoprevir or letermovir, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium 20 mg. In patients taking nelfinavir, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium 40 mg [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )] . Consider the risk/benefit of concomitant use of ledipasvir plus sofosbuvir with atorvastatin calcium. Monitor all patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy particularly during initiation of therapy and during upward dose titration of either drug. Examples: Tipranavir plus ritonavir, glecaprevir plus pibrentasvir, lopinavir plus ritonavir, simeprevir, saquinavir plus ritonavir, darunavir plus ritonavir, fosamprenavir, fosamprenavir plus ritonavir, elbasvir plus grazoprevir, letermovir, nelfinavir, and ledipasvir plus sofosbuvir. Select Azole Antifungals or Macrolide Antibiotics Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin calcium with select azole antifungals or macrolide antibiotics, due to inhibition of CYP3A4 and/or transporters [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: In patients taking clarithromycin or itraconazole, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium 20 mg [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 )] . Consider the risk/benefit of concomitant use of other azole antifungals or macrolide antibiotics with atorvastatin calcium. Examples: Erythromycin, clarithromycin, itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, and voriconazole. Niacin Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been observed with concomitant use of lipid modifying dosages of niacin (≥ 1 gram/day niacin) with atorvastatin calcium. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using lipid modifying dosages of niacin concomitantly with atorvastatin calcium outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. If concomitant use is decided, monitor patients for signs and symptoms of myopathy particularly during initiation of therapy and during upward dose titration of either drug. Fibrates (other than Gemfibrozil) Clinical Impact: Fibrates may cause myopathy when given alone. The risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is increased with concomitant use of fibrates with atorvastatin calcium. Intervention: Consider if the benefit of using fibrates concomitantly with atorvastatin calcium outweighs the increased risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Colchicine Clinical Impact: Cases of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis have been reported with concomitant use of colchicine with atorvastatin calcium. Intervention: Consider the risk/benefit of concomitant use of colchicine with atorvastatin calcium. Grapefruit Juice Clinical Impact: Grapefruit juice consumption, especially excessive consumption, more than 1.2 liters/daily, can raise the plasma levels of atorvastatin and may increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Intervention: Avoid intake of large quantities of grapefruit juice, more than 1.2 liters daily, when taking atorvastatin calcium. 7.2 Drug Interactions that may Decrease Exposure to Atorvastatin Calcium Table 3 presents drug interactions that may decrease exposure to atorvastatin calcium and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 3: Drug Interactions that may Decrease Exposure to Atorvastatin Calcium Rifampin Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of atorvastatin calcium with rifampin, an inducer of cytochrome P450 3A4 and inhibitor of OATP1B1, can lead to variable reductions in plasma concentrations of atorvastatin. Due to the dual interaction mechanism of rifampin, delayed administration of atorvastatin calcium after administration of rifampin has been associated with a significant reduction in atorvastatin plasma concentrations. Intervention: Administer atorvastatin calcium and rifampin simultaneously. 7.3 Atorvastatin Calcium Effects on Other Drugs Table 4 presents atorvastatin calcium effect on other drugs and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 4: Atorvastatin Calcium Effects on Other Drugs Oral Contraceptives Clinical Impact: Co-administration of atorvastatin calcium and an oral contraceptive increased plasma concentrations of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: Consider this when selecting an oral contraceptive for patients taking atorvastatin calcium. Digoxin Clinical Impact: When multiple doses of atorvastatin calcium and digoxin were co-administered, steady state plasma digoxin concentrations increased [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: Monitor patients taking digoxin appropriately. Table 2 includes a list of drugs that may increase exposure to atorvastatin and may increase the risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when used concomitantly and instructions for preventing or managing them [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Table 2: Drug Interactions that may Increase the Risk of Myopathy and Rhabdomyolysis with Atorvastatin Calcium Cyclosporine or Gemfibrozil Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin calcium and cyclosporine, an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and OATP1B1 [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Anti-Viral Medications Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin calcium with many anti-viral medications, which are inhibitors of CYP3A4 and/or transporters (e.g., BCRP, OATP1B1/1B3, P-gp, MRP2, and/or OAT2) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. In patients taking nelfinavir, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium 40 mg [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ) ]. Select Azole Antifungals or Macrolide Antibiotics Clinical Impact: Atorvastatin plasma levels were significantly increased with concomitant administration of atorvastatin calcium with select azole antifungals or macrolide antibiotics, due to inhibition of CYP3A4 and/or transporters [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Intervention: In patients taking clarithromycin or itraconazole, do not exceed atorvastatin calcium 20 mg [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ) ]. Table 4: Atorvastatin Calcium Effects on Other Drugs Oral Contraceptives Clinical Impact: Co-administration of atorvastatin calcium and an oral contraceptive increased plasma concentrations of norethindrone and ethinyl estradiol [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Digoxin Clinical Impact: When multiple doses of atorvastatin calcium and digoxin were co-administered, steady state plasma digoxin concentrations increased [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ].

=== TESTOSTERONE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: HOMEOPATHIC INDICATIONS: For temporary relief of the symptoms of prostate issues including weak stream and frequent urination.** **These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. They have not been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration. PURPOSE: May help increase lean muscle mass and sexual libido, also may help decrease symptoms of fatigue. PURPOSE: Aconiticum Acidum, Cis- Female Support, Apis Venenum Purum – Female Support, Aquilegia Vulgaris – Female Support, Bovista - Fatigue, Cypripedium Pubescens - Fatigue, Estradiol – Low Sex Drive, Faecalis (Alkaligenes) – Female Support, Folliculinum - Fatigue, Funiculus Umbilicalis Suis – Low Sex Drive, Glandula Suprarenalis Suis - Fatigue, Heart (Suis) – Female Support, Hydrastis Canadensis – Low Sex Drive, Hypophysis Suis – Female Support, Kreosotum - Fatigue, Lachesis Mutus – Low Sex Drive, Lilium Tigrinum – Female Support, Magnesia Phosphorica - Fatigue, Mercurius Solubilis – Low Sex Drive, Mutabile Bacillus (Bach) – Female Support, Oophorinum (Suis) – Low Sex Drive, Petroselinum Sativum – Female Support, Pineal Gland (Suis) – Low Sex Drive, Placenta Totalis Suis - Fatigue, Progesterone – Female Support, Sepia - Fatigue, Testosterone – Low Sex Drive, Uterus (Suis) – Female Support HOMEOPATHIC INDICATIONS: Temporary relief of symptoms related to hormone imbalances of insufficiencies in men and women, including low energy, inability to handle stress, trouble focusing, changes in mood, infertility, irregular menstrual cycles (females), and lack of libido.** **These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. PURPOSE: Aconiticum Acidum CIS – Female Support, Apis Venenum Purum – Female Support, Aquilegia Vulgaris – Female Support, Bovista - Fatigue, Cypripedium Pubescens - Fatigue, Estradiol – Low Sex Drive, Faecalis (alkaligenes) – Female Support, Folliculinum - Fatigue, Funiculus Umbilicalis Suis – Low Sex Drive, Glandula Suprarenalis Suis - Fatigue, Heart (Suis) – Female Support, Hydrastis Canadensis – Low Sex Drive, Hypophysis Suis – Female Support, Kreosotum - Fatigue, Lachesis Mutus – Low Sex Drive, Lilium Tigrinum – Female Support, Magnesia Phosphorica - Fatigue, Mercurius Solubilis – Low Sex Drive, Mutabile Bacillus (Bach) – Female Support, Oophorinum (Suis) – Low Sex Drive, Petroselinum Sativum – Female Support, Pineal Gland (Suis) – Low Sex Drive, Placenta Totalis Suis - Fatigue, Progesterone – Female Support, Sepia - Fatigue, Testosterone – Low Sex Drive, Uterus Suis – Female Support.
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE MALES Androgens are indicated for replacement therapy in conditions associated with a deficiency or absence of endogenous testosterone. a. Primary hypogonadism (congenital or acquired) - testicular failure due to cryptorchidism, bilateral torsion, orchitis, vanishing testes syndrome; or orchiectomy. b. Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (congenital or acquired) - gonadotropic LHRH deficiency, or pituitary - hypothalamic injury from tumors, trauma or radiation. If the above conditions occur prior to puberty, androgen replacement therapy will be needed during the adolescent years for development of secondary sex characteristics. Prolonged androgen treatment will be required to maintain sexual characteristics in these and other males who develop testosterone deficiency after puberty. Safety and efficacy of TESTOPEL ® (testosterone pellets) in men with “age-related hypogonadism” (also referred to as “late-onset hypogonadism”) have not been established. c. Androgens may be used to stimulate puberty in carefully selected males with clearly delayed puberty. These patients usually have a familial pattern of delayed puberty that is not secondary to a pathological disorder; puberty is expected to occur spontaneously at a relatively late date. Brief treatment with conservative doses may occasionally be justified in these patients if they do not respond to psychological support. The potential adverse effect on bone maturation should be discussed with the patient and parents prior to androgen administration. An x-ray of the hand and wrist to determine bone age should be taken every 6 months to assess the effect of treatment on epiphyseal centers (see WARNINGS ). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Testosterone cypionate injection is indicated for replacement therapy in the male in conditions associated with symptoms of deficiency or absence of endogenous testosterone. 1. Primary hypogonadism (congenital or acquired)-testicular failure due to cryptorchidism, bilateral torsion, orchitis, vanishing testis syndrome; or orchidectomy. 2. Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (congenital or acquired)-gonadotropin or LHRH deficiency, or pituitary-hypothalamic injury from tumors, trauma, or radiation. Safety and efficacy of testosterone cypionate injection in men with “age­-related hypogonadism” (also referred to as “late-onset hypogonadism”) have not been established. HOMEOPATHIC INDICATIONS: For temporary relief of the symptoms of prostate issues including weak stream and frequent urination.** **These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. They have not been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration. INDICATIONS: May help increase lean muscle mass and sexual libido, also may help decrease symptoms of fatigue. USES: • For the temporary relief of symptoms including: • female support • fatigue • low sex drive These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Testosterone gel 1.62% is indicated for replacement therapy in adult males for conditions associated with a deficiency or absence of endogenous testosterone: Primary hypogonadism (congenital or acquired): testicular failure due to conditions such as cryptorchidism, bilateral torsion, orchitis, vanishing testis syndrome, orchiectomy, Klinefelter's syndrome, chemotherapy, or toxic damage from alcohol or heavy metals. These men usually have low serum testosterone concentrations and gonadotropins (follicle-stimulating hormone [FSH], luteinizing hormone [LH]) above the normal range. Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (congenital or acquired): gonadotropin or luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) deficiency or pituitary-hypothalamic injury from tumors, trauma, or radiation. These men have low testosterone serum concentrations, but have gonadotropins in the normal or low range. Limitations of use: Safety and efficacy of testosterone gel 1.62% in men with “age-related hypogonadism” (also referred to as “late-onset hypogonadism”) have not been established. Safety and efficacy of testosterone gel 1.62% in males less than 18 years old have not been established [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] . Topical testosterone products may have different doses, strengths, or application instructions that may result in different systemic exposure [see Indications and Usage ( 1 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Testosterone gel 1.62% is indicated for replacement therapy in males for conditions associated with a deficiency or absence of endogenous testosterone: Primary hypogonadism (congenital or acquired) ( 1 ) Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (congenital or acquired) ( 1 ) Limitations of use: Safety and efficacy of testosterone gel 1.62% in men with “age-related hypogonadism” have not been established. ( 1 ) Safety and efficacy of testosterone gel 1.62% in males less than 18 years old have not been established. ( 1 , 8.4 ) Topical testosterone products may have different doses, strengths, or application instructions that may result in different systemic exposure. ( 1 , 12.3 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE WARNING: SECONDARY EXPOSURE TO TESTOSTERONE See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning. Virilization has been reported in children who were secondarily exposed to testosterone gel ( 5.2 , 6.2 ). Children should avoid contact with unwashed or unclothed application sites in men using testosterone gel ( 2.2 , 5.2 ). Healthcare providers should advise patients to strictly adhere to recommended instructions for use ( 2.2 , 5.2 , 17 ). HOMEOPATHIC INDICATIONS: Temporary relief of symptoms related to hormone imbalances of insufficiencies in men and women, including low energy, inability to handle stress, trouble focusing, changes in mood, infertility, irregular menstrual cycles (females), and lack of libido.** **These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Testosterone Cypionate Injection, USP is indicated for replacement therapy in the male in conditions associated with symptoms of deficiency, or absence of endogenous testosterone. Primary hypogonadism (congenital or acquired): testicular failure due to cryptorchidism, bilateral torsion, orchitis, vanishing testis syndrome; or orchidectomy. Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (congenital or acquired): gonadotropin or luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) deficiency, or pituitary-hypothalamic injury from tumors, trauma, or radiation. Safety and efficacy of testosterone cypionate in men with "age-related hypogonadism" (also referred to as "late-onset hypogonadism") have not been established.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Prior to initiating, TESTOPEL ® (testosterone pellets) confirm the diagnosis of hypogonadism by ensuring that serum testosterone concentrations have been measured in the morning on at least two separate days and that these serum testosterone concentrations are below the normal range. The suggested dosage for androgens varies depending on the age, and diagnosis of the individual patient. Dosage is adjusted according to the patient’s response and the appearance of adverse reactions. The dosage guideline for the testosterone pellets for replacement therapy in androgen-deficient males is 150mg to 450mg subcutaneously every 3 to 6 months. Various dosage regimens have been used to induce pubertal changes in hypogonadal males; some experts have advocated lower doses initially, gradually increasing the dose as puberty progresses, with or without a decrease in maintenance levels. Other experts emphasize that higher dosages are needed to induce pubertal changes and lower dosages can be used for maintenance after puberty. The chronological and skeletal ages must be taken into consideration, both in determining the initial dose and in adjusting the dose. Dosages in delayed puberty generally are in the lower range of that listed above and, for a limited duration, for example 4 to 6 months. The number of pellets to be implanted depends upon the minimal daily requirements of testosterone propionate determined by a gradual reduction of the amount administered parenterally. The usual dosage is as follows: implant two 75mg pellets for each 25mg testosterone propionate required weekly. Thus when a patient requires injections of 75mg per week, it is usually necessary to implant 450mg (6 pellets). With injections of 50mg per week, implantation of 300mg (4 pellets) may suffice for approximately three months. With lower requirements by injection, correspondingly lower amounts may be implanted. It has been found that approximately one-third of the material is absorbed in the first month, one-fourth in the second month and one-sixth in the third month. Adequate effect of the pellets ordinarily continues for three to four months, sometimes as long as six months. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Prior to initiating testosterone cypionate injection, confirm the diagnosis of hypogonadism by ensuring that serum testosterone concentrations have been measured in the morning on at least two separate days and that these serum testosterone concentrations are below the normal range. Testosterone cypionate injection is for intramuscular use only. It should not be given intravenously. Intramuscular injections should be given deep in the gluteal muscle. The suggested dosage for testosterone cypionate injection varies depending on the age, sex, and diagnosis of the individual patient. Dosage is adjusted according to the patient's response and the appearance of adverse reactions. Various dosage regimens have been used to induce pubertal changes in hypogonadal males; some experts have advocated lower dosages initially, gradually increasing the dose as puberty progresses, with or without a decrease to maintenance levels. For replacement in the hypogonadal male, 50 to 400 mg should be administered every two to four weeks. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Warming and shaking the vial should redissolve any crystals that may have formed during storage at temperatures lower than recommended. DIRECTIONS: 1-10 drops under the tongue, 2 times a day or as directed by a health professional. Consult a physician for use in children under 12 years of age. DIRECTIONS: Adults take 2-3 tablets 2 times daily. Read warnings and use only as directed. DIRECTIONS: 1-10 drops under the tongue, 3 times a day or as directed by a health professional. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage and Administration for testosterone gel 1.62% differs from testosterone gel 1%. For dosage and administration of testosterone gel 1% refer to its full prescribing information. ( 2 ) Prior to initiating testosterone gel 1.62%, confirm the diagnosis of hypogonadism by ensuring that serum testosterone concentrations have been measured in the morning on at least two separate days and that these serum testosterone concentrations are below the normal range. Dosage and Administration for testosterone gel 1.62% differs from testosterone gel 1%. ( 2 ) Prior to initiating testosterone gel 1.62%, confirm the diagnosis of hypogonadism by ensuring that serum testosterone has been measured in the morning on at least two separate days and that these concentrations are below the normal range ( 2 ). Starting dose of testosterone gel 1.62% is 40.5 mg of testosterone (2 pump actuations or a single 40.5 mg packet), applied topically once daily in the morning. ( 2.1 ) Apply to clean, dry, intact skin of the shoulders and upper arms. Do not apply testosterone gel 1.62% to any other parts of the body including the abdomen, genitals, chest, armpits (axillae), or knees. ( 2.2 , 12.3 ) Dose adjustment: testosterone gel 1.62% can be dose adjusted between a minimum of 20.25 mg of testosterone (1 pump actuation or a single 20.25 mg packet) and a maximum of 81 mg of testosterone (4 pump actuations or two 40.5 mg packets). The dose should be titrated based on the pre-dose morning serum testosterone concentration at approximately 14 days and 28 days after starting treatment or following dose adjustment. Additionally, serum testosterone concentration should be assessed periodically thereafter. ( 2.1 ) Patients should wash hands immediately with soap and water after applying testosterone gel 1.62% and cover the application site(s) with clothing after the gel has dried. Wash the application site thoroughly with soap and water prior to any situation where skin-to-skin contact of the application site with another person is anticipated. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Dosing and Dose Adjustment The recommended starting dose of testosterone gel 1.62% is 40.5 mg of testosterone (2 pump actuations or a single 40.5 mg packet) applied topically once daily in the morning to the shoulders and upper arms. The dose can be adjusted between a minimum of 20.25 mg of testosterone (1 pump actuation or a single 20.25 mg packet) and a maximum of 81 mg of testosterone (4 pump actuations or two 40.5 mg packets). To ensure proper dosing, the dose should be titrated based on the pre-dose morning serum testosterone concentration from a single blood draw at approximately 14 days and 28 days after starting treatment or following dose adjustment. In addition, serum testosterone concentration should be assessed periodically thereafter. Table 1 describes the dose adjustments required at each titration step. Table 1: Dose Adjustment Criteria Pre-Dose Morning Total Serum Testosterone Concentration Dose Titration Greater than 750 ng/dL Decrease daily dose by 20.25 mg (1 pump actuation or the equivalent of one 20.25 mg packet) Equal to or greater than 350 and equal to or less than 750 ng/dL No change: continue on current dose Less than 350 ng/dL Increase daily dose by 20.25 mg (1 pump actuation or the equivalent of one 20.25 mg packet) The application site and dose of testosterone gel 1.62% are not interchangeable with other topical testosterone products. 2.2 Administration Instructions Testosterone gel 1.62% should be applied to clean, dry, intact skin of the upper arms and shoulders. Do not apply testosterone gel 1.62% to any other parts of the body, including the abdomen, genitals, chest, armpits (axillae), or knees [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Area of application should be limited to the area that will be covered by the patient's short sleeve t-shirt. Patients should be instructed to use the palm of the hand to apply testosterone gel 1.62% and spread across the maximum surface area as directed in Table 2 (for pump) and Table 3 (for packets) and in Figure 1 . Table 2: Application Sites for Testosterone Gel 1.62%, Pump Total Dose of Testosterone Total Pump Actuations Pump Actuations Per Upper Arm and Shoulder Upper Arm and Shoulder #1 Upper Arm and Shoulder #2 20.25 mg 1 1 0 40.5 mg 2 1 1 60.75 mg 3 2 1 81 mg 4 2 2 Table 3: Application Sites for Testosterone Gel 1.62%, Packets Total Dose of Testosterone Total packets Gel Applications Per Upper Arm and Shoulder Upper Arm and Shoulder #1 Upper Arm and Shoulder #2 20.25 mg One 20.25 mg packet One 20.25 mg packet 0 40.5 mg One 40.5 mg packet Half of contents of One 40.5 mg packet Half of contents of One 40.5 mg packet 60.75 mg One 20.25 mg packet AND One 40.5 mg packet One 40.5 mg packet One 20.25 mg packet 81 mg Two 40.5 mg packets One 40.5 mg packet One 40.5 mg packet The prescribed daily dose of testosterone gel 1.62% should be applied to the right and left upper arms and shoulders as shown in the shaded areas in Figure 1. Figure 1. Application Sites for Testosterone Gel 1.62% Once the application site is dry, the site should be covered with clothing [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Wash hands thoroughly with soap and water. Avoid fire, flames or smoking until the gel has dried since alcohol based products, including testosterone gel 1.62%, are flammable. The patient should avoid swimming or showering or washing the administration site for a minimum of 2 hours after application [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . To obtain a full first dose, it is necessary to prime the canister pump. To do so, with the canister in the upright position, slowly and fully depress the actuator three times. Safely discard the gel from the first three actuations. It is only necessary to prime the pump before the first dose. After the priming procedure, fully depress the actuator once for every 20.25 mg of testosterone gel 1.62%. Testosterone gel 1.62% should be delivered directly into the palm of the hand and then applied to the application sites. When using packets, the entire contents should be squeezed into the palm of the hand and immediately applied to the application sites. When 40.5 mg packets need to be split between the left and right shoulder, patients may squeeze a portion of the gel from the packet into the palm of the hand and apply to application sites. Repeat until entire contents have been applied. Alternatively, testosterone gel 1.62% can be applied directly to the application sites from the pump or packets. Strict adherence to the following precautions is advised in order to minimize the potential for secondary exposure to testosterone from testosterone gel 1.62%-treated skin: Children and women should avoid contact with unwashed or unclothed application site(s) of men using testosterone gel 1.62%. Testosterone gel 1.62% should only be applied to the upper arms and shoulders. The area of application should be limited to the area that will be covered by a short sleeve t-shirt. Patients should wash their hands with soap and water immediately after applying testosterone gel 1.62%. Patients should cover the application site(s) with clothing (e.g., a t-shirt) after the gel has dried. Prior to situations in which direct skin-to-skin contact is anticipated, patients should wash the application site(s) thoroughly with soap and water to remove any testosterone residue. In the event that unwashed or unclothed skin to which testosterone gel 1.62% has been applied comes in direct contact with the skin of another person, the general area of contact on the other person should be washed with soap and water as soon as possible. FIG A ( 2.2 , 12.3 ) Dose adjustment: Testosterone gel 1.62% can be dose adjusted between a minimum of 20.25 mg of testosterone (1 pump actuation) and a maximum of 81 mg of testosterone (4 pump actuations). The dose can be adjusted between a minimum of 20.25 mg of testosterone (1 pump actuation) and a maximum of 81 mg of testosterone (4 pump actuations). Table 1: Dose Adjustment Criteria Pre-Dose Morning Total Serum Testosterone Concentration Dose Titration Greater than 750 ng/dL Decrease daily dose by 20.25 mg (1 pump actuation Equal to or greater than 350 and equal to or less than 750 ng/dL No change: continue on current dose Less than 350 ng/dL Increase daily dose by 20.25 mg (1 pump actuation The application site and dose of testosterone gel 1.62% are not interchangeable with other topical testosterone products. 2.2 Administration Instructions Testostrone gel 1.62% should be applied to clean, dry, intact skin of the upper arms and shoulders. Do not apply testostrone gel 1.62% to any other parts of the body, including the abdomen, genitals, chest, armpits (axillae), or knees [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Patients should be instructed to use the palm of the hand to apply testostrone gel 1.62% and spread across the maximum surface area as directed in Table 2 and in Figure 1 . Table 2: Application Sites for Testostrone Gel 1.62%, Pump Total Dose of Testosterone Total Pump Actuations Pump Actuations Per Upper Arm and Shoulder Upper Arm and Shoulder #1 Upper Arm and Shoulder #2 20.25 mg 1 1 0 40.5 mg 2 1 1 60.75 mg 3 2 1 81 mg 4 2 2 The prescribed daily dose of testosterone gel 1.62% should be applied to the right and left upper arms and shoulders as shown in the shaded areas in Figure 1 . Alternatively, testosterone gel 1.62% can be applied directly to the application sites from the pump. Andro shoulders ben 05092014 Andro shoulders side view 2.1 Dosing and Dose Adjustment The recommended starting dose of testosterone gel 1.62% is 40.5 mg of testosterone (2 pump actuations or a single 40.5 mg packet) applied topically once daily in the morning to the shoulders and upper arms. DIRECTIONS: 1-10 drops under the tongue, 3 times a day or as directed by your health professional. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Prior to initiating testosterone cypionate, confirm the diagnosis of hypogonadism by ensuring that serum testosterone concentrations have been measured in the morning on at least two separate days and that these serum testosterone concentrations are below the normal range.
Warnings: WARNINGS In patients with breast cancer, androgen therapy may cause hypercalcemia by stimulating osteolysis. In this case, the drug should be discontinued. Prolonged use of high doses of androgens has been associated with the development of peliosis hepatis and hepatic neoplasms including hepatocellular carcinoma (see PRECAUTIONS - Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility). Peliosis hepatis can be a life-threatening or fatal complication. Men treated with androgens may be at an increased risk for the development of prostatic hypertrophy and prostatic carcinoma. There have been postmarketing reports of venous thromboembolic events, including deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), in patients using testosterone products, such as TESTOPEL ® (testosterone pellets). Evaluate patients who report symptoms of pain, edema, warmth and erythema in the lower extremity for DVT and those who present with acute shortness of breath for PE. If a venous thromboembolic event is suspected, discontinue treatment with TESTOPEL ® (testosterone pellets) and initiate appropriate workup and management (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Long term clinical safety trials have not been conducted to assess the cardiovascular outcomes of testosterone replacement therapy in men. To date, epidemiologic studies and randomized controlled trials have been inconclusive for determining the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), such as non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke, and cardiovascular death, with the use of testosterone compared to non-use. Some studies, but not all, have reported an increased risk of MACE in association with use of testosterone replacement therapy in men. Patients should be informed of this possible risk when deciding whether to use or to continue to use TESTOPEL ® (testosterone pellets). Testosterone can increase blood pressure which can increase cardiovascular (CV) risk over time. Monitor blood pressure periodically in men using testosterone products, especially in men with hypertension. Testosterone products are not recommended for use in patients with uncontrolled hypertension. Testosterone has been subject to abuse, typically at doses higher than recommended for the approved indication and in combination with other anabolic androgenic steroids. Anabolic androgenic steroid abuse can lead to serious cardiovascular and psychiatric adverse reactions (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) . If testosterone abuse is suspected, check serum testosterone concentrations to ensure they are within therapeutic range. However, testosterone levels may be in the normal or subnormal range in men abusing synthetic testosterone derivatives. Counsel patients concerning the serious adverse reactions associated with abuse of testosterone and anabolic androgenic steroids. Conversely, consider the possibility of testosterone and anabolic androgenic steroid abuse in suspected patients who present with serious cardiovascular or psychiatric adverse events. Edema with or without congestive heart failure may be a serious complication in patients with preexisting cardiac, renal, or hepatic disease. In addition to discontinuation of the drug, diuretic therapy may be required. Gynecomastia frequently develops in patients and occasionally persists in patients being treated for hypogonadism. Androgen therapy should be used cautiously in healthy males with delayed puberty. The effect on bone maturation should be monitored by assessing bone age of the wrist and hand every 6 months. In children, androgen treatment may accelerate bone maturation without producing compensatory gain in linear growth. This adverse effect may result in compromised adult stature. The younger the child the greater the risk of compromising final mature height. Post-marketing cases associate TESTOPEL ® pellet(s) insertion with implant site infection (cellulitis and abscess), and/or pellet extrusion at or near the implantation site. Infection and extrusion may occur concurrently or separately. Reported signs and symptoms of infection and/or extrusion at the implant site included induration, inflammation, fibrosis, bleeding, bruising, wound drainage, pain, itching, and pellet extrusion. Although cases of infection and/or extrusion may occur at any time, most reported cases occurred within the first month after TESTOPEL ® implantation. Infection and/or extrusion may require further treatment (see ADVERSE REACTIONS). This drug has not been shown to be safe and effective for the enhancement of athletic performance. Because of the potential risk for serious adverse health effects, this drug should not be used for such purpose. WARNINGS Hypercalcemia may occur in immobilized patients. If this occurs, the drug should be discontinued. Prolonged use of high doses of androgens (principally the 17-α alkyl-androgens) has been associated with development of hepatic adenomas, hepatocellular carcinoma, and peliosis hepatis —all potentially life-threatening complications. Geriatric patients treated with androgens may be at an increased risk of developing prostatic hypertrophy and prostatic carcinoma although conclusive evidence to support this concept is lacking. There have been postmarketing reports of venous thromboembolic events, including deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), in patients using testosterone products, such as testosterone cypionate. If a venous thromboembolic event is suspected, discontinue treatment with testosterone cypionate and initiate appropriate workup and management. To date, epidemiologic studies and randomized controlled trials have been inconclusive for determining the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), such as non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-­fatal stroke, and cardiovascular death, with the use of testosterone compared to non-use. Patients should be informed of this possible risk when deciding whether to use or to continue to use testosterone cypionate injection. Anabolic androgenic steroid abuse can lead to serious cardiovascular and psychiatric adverse reactions (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ). Edema, with or without congestive heart failure, may be a serious complication in patients with pre-existing cardiac, renal or hepatic disease. Gynecomastia may develop and occasionally persists in patients being treated for hypogonadism. The preservative benzyl alcohol has been associated with serious adverse events, including the “gasping syndrome”, and death in pediatric patients. Although normal therapeutic doses of this product ordinarily deliver amounts of benzyl alcohol that are substantially lower than those reported in association with the “gasping syndrome”, the minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occur is not known. The risk of benzyl alcohol toxicity depends on the quantity administered and the liver and kidneys' capacity to detoxify the chemical. Premature and low-birth weight infants may be more likely to develop toxicity. Because of the potential risk of serious adverse health effects, this drug should not be used for such purpose. WARNINGS: Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, contact physician or Poison Control Center right away. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Tamper seal: "Sealed for Your Protection." Do not use if seal is broken or missing. WARNINGS: Not intended for persons under the age of 18. If pregnant or breast-feeding, do not use. Consult a health professional prior to use if you have any pre-existing medical conditions or take any prescription medications. Do not consume with any caffeine or stimulants. Improper use will not improve results and is potentially hazardous to a person's health. Use only as directed. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Do not use if tamper evident seal is broken or missing. WARNINGS: If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, contact a physician or Poison Control Center right away. Tamper Evident: Sealed for your protection. Do not use if seal is broken or missing. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a healthcare professional before use. Tamper seal: sealed for your protection. WARNINGS: If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Prolonged use of high doses of androgens (principally the 17-α alkyl-androgens) has been associated with development of hepatic adenomas, hepatocellular carcinoma, and peliosis hepatis – all potentially life-threatening complications. Patients should be informed of this possible risk when deciding whether to use or to continue to use testosterone cypionate. The risk of benzyl alcohol toxicity depends on the quantity administered and the liver and kidneys’ capacity to detoxify the chemical.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Androgens are contraindicated in men with carcinomas of the breast or with known or suspected carcinomas of the prostate. If administered to pregnant women, androgens cause virilization of the external genitalia of the female fetus. The virilization includes clitoromegaly, abnormal vaginal development, and fusion of genital folds to form a scrotal-like structure. The degree of masculinization is related to the amount of drug given and the age of the fetus, and is most likely to occur in the female fetus when the drugs are given in the first trimester. If the patient becomes pregnant while taking these drugs she should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. CONTRAINDICATIONS 1. Known hypersensitivity to the drug 2. Males with carcinoma of the breast 3. Males with known or suspected carcinoma of the prostate gland 4. Women who are pregnant (see PRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy ) 5. Patients with serious cardiac, hepatic or renal disease (see WARNINGS ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Testosterone gel 1.62% is contraindicated in men with carcinoma of the breast or known or suspected carcinoma of the prostate [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. Testosterone gel 1.62% is contraindicated in women who are pregnant. Testosterone gel 1.62% can cause virilization of the female fetus when administered to a pregnant woman. Pregnant women need to be aware of the potential for transfer of testosterone from men treated with testosterone gel 1.62%. If a pregnant woman is exposed to testosterone gel 1.62%, she should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 )] . Men with carcinoma of the breast or known or suspected prostate cancer ( 4 , 5.1 ) Women who are pregnant. Testosterone may cause fetal harm ( 4 , 8.1 ) Men with carcinoma of the breast or known or suspected prostate cancer ( 4 , 5.1 ) Pregnant or breast-feeding women. Testosterone may cause fetal harm ( 4 , 8.1 , 8.3 ) Women who are pregnant (see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy ) 5.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Androgens may increase sensitivity to oral anticoagulants. Dosage of the anticoagulant may require reduction in order to maintain satisfactory therapeutic hypoprothrombinemia. Concurrent administration of oxyphenbutazone and androgens may result in elevated serum levels of oxyphenbutazone. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, insulin requirements. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Androgens may decrease blood glucose and therefore may decrease insulin requirements in diabetic patients ( 7.1 ) Changes in anticoagulant activity may be seen with androgens. More frequent monitoring of International Normalized Ratio (INR) and prothrombin time is recommended ( 7.2 ) Use of testosterone with adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) or corticosteroids may result in increased fluid retention. Use with caution, particularly in patients with cardiac, renal, or hepatic disease ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Insulin Changes in insulin sensitivity or glycemic control may occur in patients treated with androgens. In diabetic patients, the metabolic effects of androgens may decrease blood glucose and, therefore, may decrease insulin requirements. 7.2 Oral Anticoagulants Changes in anticoagulant activity may be seen with androgens, therefore more frequent monitoring of international normalized ratio (INR) and prothrombin time are recommended in patients taking anticoagulants, especially at the initiation and termination of androgen therapy. 7.3 Corticosteroids The concurrent use of testosterone with adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) or corticosteroids may result in increased fluid retention and requires careful monitoring particularly in patients with cardiac, renal or hepatic disease.

=== UNDECYLENIC ACID ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antifungal Purpose CREMA ANTIHONGOS Antifungal Cream Purpose Anti-fungal Uses: For the treament of athlete's foot. Soothes itching, scailing, cracking, redness, soreness and between the toes or itching, burning feet. Purpose Anti fungal
Indications: Uses For the treatment of athlete´s foot. USES Cures most Athlete's Foot (Tinea Pedis), Jock Itch (Tinea Cruris), and Ringworm (Tinea Corporis). Relives discomfort, itching, cracking, burning and scaling, which accompany these conditions. Usos USES USOS: Cura el pie de (tinea pedis), comezon en la ingle (tinea cruris) y tina (tinea corporis). Par alivio effectivo de la comezon, agrietamiento, ardor y molestias asociadas con estas enfermedades. USES:Cures athlete's foot (tinea pedis), jock itch (tinea cruris) and ringworm(tinea corpois). For effective relief of itching, cracking, burning and discomfort that can accompany these conditions. Uses: For cure of most: • ringworm (tinea corporis) • athlete's foot (tinea pedis). For the relief of: • itching• scaling • cracking • burning • redness • soreness • irritation and discomforts which may accompany these conditions. Directions Directions Wash the affected area and dry throughly. Apply a thin layer of the product over the affected area twice daily (morning and night) or as directed by a doctor. Pay special attention to spaces between the toes; wear well-fitting ventialted shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily. This product is not effective on the scalp or nails. Supervise children in the use of this product. Use Cures most athlete's foot (dermatophytosis). Relieves itching, scaling and Uses: For effective relief of itching, burning and cracking. Uses For the treatment of most athlete's foot (tinea pedis), jock itch (tinea cruris) and ringworm (tinea corporis). For effective relief of itching, cracking, burning, redness, soreness, irritation and discomfort Use 1 Proven clinically effective in the treatment of most jock itch, ringworm, eczema, and athlete's foot. 2 For effective relief of itching, scaling, burning and discomfort that can accompany these conditions.
Dosage: Directions Wash the affected area and dry thoroughly. Apply a thin layer of the product over the affected area twice daily (morning and night) or as directed by a doctor. Supervise children in the use of this product. For athlete's foot: Pay special attention to spaces between the toes; wear well fitting, ventilated shoes, and change shoes and socks at least once daily. Use daily for 4 weeks. If condition persists, consults a physician. This product is not effective on the scalp or nails. DIRECTIONS Wash the affected area with soap and water and dry thoroughly. Apply a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily (morning and night), or as directed by a physician. For Athlete's Foot, pay special attention to spaces between the toes; wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily. For Athlete's Foot and Ringworm, use daily for four (4) weeks; for Jock Itch, use daily for two (2) weeks. If condition persists longer, consult a physician. Wash hands after each use. Modo De Empleo Directions MODO DE EMPLEO: Lave con aqua y jabon ;as areas afectadas y sequelas adecuadamente. Aplique una capa ligera dos veces al dia (manana y noche), o como lo haya indicado su medico. Los ninos menores de 12 anos que usen este producto deberan hacerlo bajo estricta supervision de un adulto. En los casos de pie de atleta, debe poner atencion entre los dedos de los pies. Es recomendable que use zapatos a la medida y bien ventilados, y cambiarse de calcentines y zapatos cuando menos una vez al dia. Para el pie de atleta y la tina, use diario por cuatro semanas; papa comezon en la ingle, does semanas son suficentes. Si no obtiene resultados en el tiemp indicado, es mejor consultar con su medico. DIRECTIONS: wash the affected area with soap and water and dry thoroughly. Apply sparingly over affected area twice daily (morning and night), or as directed by a physician. For athlete's foot and ringworm, use daily for 4 weeks; for jock itch, use daily for 2 weeks. This product is not effective on scalp or nails. Directions: Clean and dry affected area with soap and water and dry throughly. Apply a thin layer to the affected area twice daily (morning and night) or as directed by physician. For athletes foot, pay special attention to the space between the toes, and wear well-fitting ventilated shoes and socks. For athlete's foot and ringworm. If Conditions persists for longer, consult a physician. Intended for use typically by healthy adults only. Persons under the age of 18, or those with highly sensitive or allergic skin should use only as directed by physician. This product is not meant to be applied directly to the Scalp or nails. Directions Directions Wash the affected area and dry throughly. Pay special attention to spaces between the toes; wear well-fitting ventialted shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily. Directions • Wash the affected area and dry thoroughly. • Apply a thin layer of the product over the affected area twice daily (morning and night) or as directed by a doctor. • Supervise children in the use of this product. • For athlete's foot: Pay special attention to spaces between the toes; wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes, and change shoes and socks at least once daily • For athlete's foot and ringworm, use daily for 4 weeks. If the condition persists longer, consult a doctor. Directions: Wash affected area well, and dry thoroughly. Supervise, children in the use of this product. For arthlete's foot:pay special attention to the spaces between the toes; wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes and change socks at least once daily. Use 1-2 times daily or as directed by physician. Use daily for 4 weeks; if condition persists longer, ask a doctor. Directions Clean the affected area and dry thoroughly. Apply a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily (morning and night) or as directed by a doctor. For athlete's foot: Pay special attention to spaces between the toes; wear well-fitting, ventilated shoes, and change shoes and socks at least once daily. For athlete's foot and ringworm, use daily for 4 weeks; for jock itch, use daily for 2 weeks.If condition persists longer, consult a doctor. Directions • clean the affected area and dry thoroughly • apply a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily or as directed by doctor • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete's foot, pay special attention to the spaces between the toes; wear well fitting, ventilated shoes, and change shoes and socks at least once daily • for jock itch, use daily for 2 weeks • not effective on the scalp or nails
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Do not use on children under 2 years of age, unless directed by a doctor. When using this product Avoid contact with the eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 4 weeks. Keep out of the reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. WARNING Do not use on children under two years of age unless directed by a physician. For external use only. Avoid contact with eyes. If irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within four (4) weeks (for Athlete's Foot or Ringworm) or within two (2) weeks (for Jock Itch), discontinue use and consult a physician. Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, seek professional assistance or contact poison control center immediately (800)-222-1222. Precauciones Warnings PRECAUCIONES: No debe aplicarse en menores de 2 anos, excepto cuando su medico lo recomiende. Para uso externo unicamente. Evite el contacto con los olos. Si observa alguna irritacion, o si no hay mejoria despues de cuatro semanas (en el pie de atleta o en la tina), o dos semanas (en la comezon el la ingle), suspenda su uso y consulte a su medico. Mantenga este y todos los medicamentos fuera del alcance de los ninos. En caso de ingestion accidental, comuniquese con el centro de salud mas cercano y pida ayuda profesional inmediatamente. WARNINGS: Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a physician. If irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 4 weeks (for athlete's foot or ringworm) or within 2 weeks (for jock itch), discontinue use and consult a physician. In case of accidental ingestion, seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. Warnings: For external use only. Ask a doctor before use on children under two years of age DO NOT USE on diaper rash. When using this product avoid contact with eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation occurs there is no improvement within four weeks. KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Warnings For External Use Only Avoid contact with the eyes. Do not use: on children under 2 years of age unless directed by doctor. Warnings For external use only Do not use on • children under 2 years • for diaper rash When using this product • Avoid contact with the eyes Stop use and consult a doctor if • irritation occurs • if there is no improvement within 4 weeks Do not use on children under 2 years of age except under the supervision of a doctor. Stop use and ask a doctor if: -Irritation occurs. -There is no improvement within 4 weeks. If pregnant or breast feeding, ask a health professional before use. Warnings For external use only. Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor. Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 4 weeks Keep out of reach of children.

=== ANTACID TABLETS ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antacid Purpose Purpose Antacid
Indications: Uses relieves: • heartburn • sour stomach • acid indigestion • upset stomach associated with these symptoms Uses Uses relieves: acid indigestion heartburn Uses relieves heartburn sour stomach acid indigestion upset stomach associated with these symptoms Uses relieves heartburn acid indigestion sour stomach upset stomach associated with these symptoms
Dosage: Directions • adults and children 12 years of age and over: chew 2-4 tablets as symptoms occur, or as directed by a doctor. Do not swallow tablets whole. • do not take for symptoms that persist for more than 2 weeks unless advised by a doctor Directions Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over: chew 2-4 tablets as symptoms occur, or as directed by a doctor. Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over: chew 2-4 tablets as symptoms occur, or as directed by a doctor. do not take for symptoms that persist for more than 2 weeks unless advised by a doctor Directions • adults and children 12 years of age and over: chew 2-4 tablets completely as symptoms occur, or as directed by a doctor. • do not take for symptoms that persist for more than 2 weeks unless advised by a doctor. Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over: chew 2-4 tablets completely as symptoms occur, or as directed by a doctor. Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over: chew 2-3 tablets completely as symptoms occur, or as directed by a doctor. Directions • adults and children 12 years of age and over: chew 2-3 tablets as symptoms occur, or as directed by a doctor. • Do not swallow tablets whole. Do not swallow tablets whole, Do not take for symptoms that persist for more than 2 weeks unless advised by a doctor.
Warnings: Warnings Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug. Antacids may interact with certain prescription drugs. When using this product • do not take more than 15 tablets in 24 hours • do not use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks except under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug. When using this product When using this product do not take more than 10 tablets in a 24-hour period, or use the maximum dosage of this product for more than 2 weeks, except under the advice and supervision of a doctor. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. Warnings Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug. When using this product do not take more than 10 tablets in 24 hours if pregnant do not take more than 6 tablets in 24 hours do not use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks except under the advice and supervision of a doctor Keep out of reach of children. When using this product • do not take more than 10 tablets in 24 hours • if pregnant do not take more than 6 tablets in 24 hours • do not use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks except under the advice and supervision of a doctor When using this product do not take more than 15 tablets in 24 hours if pregnant do not take more than 10 tablets in 24 hours do not use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks except under the advice and supervision of a doctor Keep out of reach of children. Warnings When using this product • do not take more than 10 tablets in 24 hours • if pregnant do not take more than 6 tablets in 24 hours • do not use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks except under the advice and supervision of a doctor. When using this product • do not take more than 15 tablets in 24 hours • id pregnant do not take more than 10 tablets in 24 hours • do not use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks except under the advice and supervision of a doctor. When using this product • do not take more than 7 tablets in 24 hours • if pregnant do not take more than 5 tablets in 24 hours • do not use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks except under the advice and supervision of a doctor When using this product do not take more than 15 tablets in 24 hours If pregnant do not take more than 10 tablets in 24 hours do not use the maximum dosage for more than 2 weeks except under the advice and supervision of a doctor.

=== CANDIDA ALBICANS ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Equal volumes of each HPUS** ingredient in 12X, 30X, and 1LM potencies. Active ingredients Purpose † Abies canadensis.........................................................................gnawing hunger Agaricus muscarius ...............................................................gastric disturbances Allium cepa.....................................................................burning in mouth, throat Allium sativum.......................................................................constipation, cough Aloe ...........................................................................................headache, pain Antimonium crudum ...............................................................ear ringing, pimples Asafoetida...............................................................................bloating, flatulence Borax ...................................................................... nervousness, intestinal upset Candida albicans ................................................................yeast infections, thrush Candida parapsilosis.................................................nail fungus, spacey, itchy scalp Carpinus betulus, flos................................................................ fatigue, weariness Ignatia amara....................................................................changeable mood, rash Lachesis mutus...............................................................melancholy, sleeplessness Lycopodium clavatum.............................................................forgetfulness, drowsy Malus pumila, flos ...................................................................obsessive cleansing Olea europaea, flos............................................................... complete exhaustion Phosphoricum acidum.............................................nervous exhaustion, listlessness Phytolacca decandra................................................................scaly scalp, dry skin Pulsatilla .....................................................................overly emotional, chilliness Sabadilla..............................................................cravings for sweets and starches Sticta pulmonaria ..................................................... frothy stools, diarrhea, cough Sulphur ..................................................................................cravings for sweets Thuja occidentalis .............................................................GI irritation, brittle nails ** "The designation 'HPUS’ means that the active ingredient(s) in this product complies with a monograph (or Monographs) in the Homeopathic Pharmacopeia of the United States.″ † Claims based on traditional Homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence, not FDA evaluated. Purpose: Relief from runny nose, itchy eyes, sinus congestion and sneezing. PURPOSE: Adrenalinum – Self-Consciousness, Agnus Castus - Shame, Aloe - Embarrassment, Ambra Grisea - Embarrassment, Aurum Muriaticum Natronatum – Lack of Confidence, Baryta Carbonica - Worthlessness, Calcarea Iodata – Fear of Failure, Candida Albicans - Guilt, Cerebrum Suis – Avoiding Attention, Cinchona Officinalis – Excessive Apologizing, Digitalis Purpurea - Shame, Hypothalamus Suis – Lack of Confidence, Ignatia Amara – Fear of Strangers, Lac Defloratum - Hiding, Lycopodium Clavatum – Fear of Failure, Natrum Muriaticum – Avoiding Attention, Rhus Glabra – Poor Eye Contact, Saccharum Officinale - Worthlessness, Serotonin (Hydrochloride) - Guilt, Staphysagria - Embarrassment, Thuja Occidentalis - Embarrassment GDS-Calm Digestive tract calming. PURPOSE: Alcoholus - Impressionability, Alumina Silicata – Hydration Support, Anacardium Orientale – Identity Confusion, Aqua Marina - Sensitivity, Baptisia Tinctoria - Division, Candida Albicans - Sensitivity, Collagen - Coherence, DNA - Division, Lavandula Officinalis – Sensitivity to Energies, Medulla Ossis Suis - Empathy, Natrum Muriaticum – Hydration Support, Natrum Phosphoricum - Sensitivity, Nux Moschata – Hydration Support, Phosphorus – Sensitivity to Energies, Quartz - Coherence, Silicea - Division, Tela Aranea - Sensitivity, Valeriana Officinalis - Sensitivity, Viscum Album - Impressionability OTC - PURPOSE SECTION Formulated for symptoms such as vaginal itching, burning, dryness and irritation. PURPOSE: Adrenocorticotrophin – Congestion, Cough, and Support of Adrenal Glands,† Alternaria Tenuis Nees – Allergic Sensitivity to Mold, Catarrh, Itchy Eyes, Mucus, Rhinitis and Sneezing,† Aspergillus Niger – Allergic Sensitivity to Mold, Cough, Fatigue, Headache, and Nausea,† Candida Albicans – Allergic Sensitivity to Yeast, Fatigue, Headaches, Itchy Skin, and Rashes,† Candida Parapsilosis – Allergic Sensitivity to Yeast, Fatigue, Headaches, Itchy Skin, and Rashes,† Carpet Dust – Allergic Sensitivity to Dust, Itchy Red Eyes, Runny Nose, Sneezing,† Furniture Dust - Allergic Sensitivity to Dust, Itchy Red Eyes, Runny Nose, Sneezing,† Glandula Suprarenalis -Support of Adrenal Glands,† Hepar (Liver) – Support of Liver,† Histaminum Hydrochloricum – Allergic Hypersensitivity, Headaches, Itching, Rashes, and Urticaria,† House Dust - Allergic Sensitivity to Dust, Itchy Red Eyes, Runny Nose, Sneezing,† House Dust Mite - Allergic Sensitivity to Dust Mites, Itchy Red Eyes, Runny Nose, Sneezing,† Mucor Racemosus – Allergic Sensitivity to Mold, Itchy Eyes, rashes, Runny Nose, and Sneezing,† Rhizopus Nigricans – Allergic Sensitivity to Mold, Headaches, Itchy Eyes, Rashes, Runny Nose and Sneezing,† Torula Cerevisiae – Allergic Sensitivity to Yeast, Headaches, Itching, Mild Stomach Discomfort, Rashes, and Runny Nose† †Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. Not FDA evaluated. PURPOSE: Baptisia Tinctoria – candida symptoms, Bryonia - candida symptoms , Candida Albicans – discharge, itching, burning, Candida Parapsilosis - candida symptoms, Echinacea - candida symptoms, Eupatorium Perfoliatum - candida symptoms, Helonias Dioica – vaginal itching and burning, Kreosotum – genital itching, discharge, Thuja Occidentalis candida symptoms, Viscum Album - candida symptoms* *Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. INDICATIONS: For temporary relief of gas with abdominal discomfort after eating, mood swings, joint pains, irritability, forgetfulness, skin rashes, and fatigue. Category I Temporarily eases malaise, flu and cold symptoms and aches.
Indications: Uses † For temporary relief of: █ yeast infections █ thrush █ nausea █ nail fungus █ constipation █ cravings █ headache █ itchy scalp █ fatigue █ diarrhea █ flatulence █ forgetfulness █ sleeplessness Use: This product is a Homeopathic Dilution, formulated to support the body's immunity for the temporary relief of mold allergies. USES: • For the temporary relief of symptoms including: • self-consciousness • shame • embarrassment • fear of strangers • lack of confidence • worthlessness •guilt • avoiding attention • hiding • excessive apologizing • fear of failure • poor eye contact These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. They have not been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration. GDS-Calm For the temporary relief of stomach upset, flatulence and heartburn. USES: • For the temporary relief of symptoms including: • impressionability • hydration support • identity confusion • sensitivity • division • coherence • sensitivity to energies • empathy These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. INDICATIONS & USAGE SECTION Formulated for symptoms such as vaginal itching, burning, dryness and irritation. USES: Provides factors that mitigate hypersensitivity to household dust, dust mites, molds and yeast.† †Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. Not FDA evaluated. USES: May help temporarily relieve • symptoms associated with yeast infection • itching • burning • discharge • odor* *Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. INDICATIONS: For temporary relief of gas with abdominal discomfort after eating, mood swings, joint pains, irritability, forgetfulness, skin rashes, and fatigue. Category I For the temporary relief of general systemic malise, flu and cold symptoms and achiness.
Dosage: Directions Oral Dose Adults and Children over 12 2 sprays into mouth 3 to 6 times per day Children 6-12 1 spray into mouth 3 to 6 times per day Children under 6 Do not use in children under 6, unless directed to by a doctor Directions: Shake bottle well before use. Adults (12 and Older) Take 6-10 drops orally (in water if desired) 1-3 times a day as needed. Children (11 and Younger) Take 4-6 drops orally (in water if desired) 1-3 times a day as needed or as directed by your health care provider. Consult a Physician for use in children under 12 years of age. DIRECTIONS: 1-10 drops under the tongue, 3 times a day or as directed by a health professional. GDS-Calm Orally 25 drops, 2 times per day or as indicated by a physician. Children 12 and under use one half the adult dosage. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION Directions: Ages 12 and up, take 6 drops by mouth (ages 6 to 11, give 3 drops) as needed or as directed by a health professional. DIRECTIONS: • Adults: 2 to 3 sprays orally, three times daily. Children under twelve one half adult dosage. • Do not take within 15 minutes of consuming food, beverage or brushing teeth. • Consult a physician for use in children under 12 years of age. DIRECTIONS: Adults and children 12 years and over: • take 2 tablets every 2 hours for 2 doses, then reduce to 1 tablet every 4 hours. Continue taking for 60 days or 2 complete menstrual cycles. DIRECTIONS: 10 drops orally, 3 times a day. Category I Orally 25 drops, 2 times per day or as indicated by a physician. Children 12 and under use one half the adult.
Warnings: Warnings Stop use and consult a doctor if symptoms worsen or persist for more than 7 days. If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a healthcare professional before use. W arnings: Use only as directed. Stop use and consult a doctor if symptoms worsen or do not improve after 5 days. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. WARNINGS: If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, contact a physician or Poison Control Center right away. Tamper Evident: Sealed for your protection. Do not use if seal is broken or missing. GDS-Calm Use only under the direction of a health care professional. Do not use if tamper evident seal is broken or missingl. WARNINGS SECTION WARNINGS: Keep out of reach of children. Do not use if tamper-evident seal is broken or missing. If symptoms worsen or persist for more than a few days, consult a doctor. If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a doctor before use. WARNINGS: If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. If condition worsens, seek medical attention. KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Do not use if tamper evident seal is broken or missing. Store in a cool place after opening WARNINGS: Stop use and ask a doctor if • this is the first time you have had vaginal itch and discomfort, or you have abdominal pain, fever, or foul smelling discharge. •symptoms worsen or do not improve in 7 days • new symptoms occur If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Do not use if printed foil blister is broken or missing. • Store at room temperature (65-80ºF) WARNINGS: If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health care professional before use. Do not use if tamper evident seal is broken or missing. Store in cool, dry place. Category I Use only under the direction of a health care professional.

=== EPHEDRINE SULFATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ephedrine sulfate injection is indicated for the treatment of clinically important hypotension occurring in the setting of anesthesia. Ephedrine sulfate injection is an alpha- and beta-adrenergic agonist and a norepinephrine-releasing agent that is indicated for the treatment of clinically important hypotension occurring in the setting of anesthesia. ( 1 ) 1. INDICATIONS AND USAGE EMERPHED and EMERPHED-PFS is indicated for the treatment of clinically important hypotension occurring in the setting of anesthesia. EMERPHED and EMERPHED-PFS is an alpha- and beta- adrenergic agonist and a norepinephrine-releasing agent that is indicated for the treatment of clinically important hypotension occurring in the setting of anesthesia. Ephedrine sulfate injection is an alpha- and beta- adrenergic agonist and a norepinephrine-releasing agent that is indicated for the treatment of clinically important hypotension occurring in the setting of anesthesia. Ephedrine Sulfate Injection, USP is an alpha- and beta-adrenergic agonist and a norepinephrine-releasing agent that is indicated for the treatment of clinically important hypotension occurring in the setting of anesthesia. Ephedrine Sulfate Injection, USP, is an alpha- and beta- adrenergic agonist and a norepinephrine-releasing agent indicated for the treatment of clinically important hypotension occurring in the setting of anesthesia. (1)
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Should be administered by trained healthcare providers ( 2.1 ) Ephedrine sulfate injection, 50 mg/mL, must be diluted before administration as an intravenous bolus dose. ( 2.1 ) Bolus intravenous injection: 5 mg to 10 mg as needed, not to exceed 50 mg. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 General Dosage and Administration Instructions Ephedrine sulfate injection, 50 mg/mL must be diluted before administration as an intravenous bolus to achieve the desired concentration. Dilute with normal saline or 5% dextrose in water. Inspect parenteral drug products visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. 2.2 Dosing for the Treatment of Clinically Important Hypotension in the Setting of Anesthesia Ephedrine sulfate injection should be administered by trained healthcare providers. The recommended dosages for the treatment of clinically important hypotension in the setting of anesthesia is an initial dose of 5 to 10 mg administered by intravenous bolus. Administer additional boluses as needed, not to exceed a total dosage of 50 mg. Adjust dosage according to the blood pressure goal (i.e., titrate to effect). 2.3 Prepare a 5 mg/mL Solution for Bolus Intravenous Administration For bolus intravenous administration, prepare a solution containing a final concentration of 5 mg/mL of ephedrine sulfate injection: Withdraw 50 mg (1 mL of 50 mg/mL) of ephedrine sulfate injection and dilute with 9 mL of 5% Dextrose Injection or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. Withdraw an appropriate dose of the 5 mg/mL solution prior to bolus intravenous administration. 2. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION This is a premixed formulation. Do not dilute prior to use. Discard any unused portion of EMERPHED or EMERPHED-PFS. EMERPHED and EMERPHED-PFS is a clear, colorless solution. Do not use if the solution is not clear or if particulate matter is present. The single-dose prefilled syringe is intended for use in one patient during one surgical procedure. 2.1 General Dosage and Administration Instructions This is a premixed formulation. Discard any unused portion of EMERPHED. EMERPHED is a clear, colorless solution. 2.2 Dosing for the Treatment of Clinically Important Hypotension in the Setting of Anesthesia The recommended dosages for the treatment of clinically important hypotension in the setting of anesthesia is an initial dose of 5 mg to 10 mg administered by intravenous bolus. 2.3 Instructions for Use of Prefilled Syringe The proper method of administration of EMERPHED-PFS injection is described in the following instructions. For each single-dose prefilled syringe: Remove syringe from tray and check that it is not damaged or leaking. Inspect drug product in glass syringe for any visible particulate matter or discoloration prior to use. Discard if particulate matter or discoloration is present. Do not remove the tamper evident seal. Push plunger rod slightly in to break the stopper loose while tip cap is still on. Hold the syringe upright on the syringe barrel (C). With the other hand, take hold of the cap (A) and twist off cap counterclockwise from syringe tip (see Figure 1). Once cap (A) is off, DO NOT TOUCH THE STERILE SYRINGE TIP (Luer-Lok) (B) (see Figure 2). Discard the tip cap. Expel air bubble. Adjust dose into sterile material (if applicable). Connect the syringe to an appropriate intravenous connection. Before injection, ensure that the syringe is securely attached to the needle or needleless luer access device (NLAD). Depress plunger rod to deliver medication. Ensure that pressure is maintained on the plunger rod during the entire administration. Remove syringe from NLAD (if applicable) and discard into appropriate receptacle. To prevent needle stick injuries, do not recap needle when needle is connected to syringe. NOTE : All steps must be done sequentially Do not re-sterilize syringe Do not use this product on a sterile field Do not introduce any other fluid into the syringe at any time This product is for single dose only Figure 1 Figure 2 Discard any unused portion. The recommended dosages for the treatment of clinically important hypotension in the setting of anesthesia is an initial dose of 5 mg to 10 mg administered by intravenous bolus. ( 2.1 ) Bolus intravenous injection: 5 to 10 mg as needed, not to exceed 50 mg. ( 2 ) 2.1 General Dosage and Administration Instructions Ephedrine sulfate injection, 50 mg/mL must be diluted before administration as an intravenous bolus to achieve the desired concentration. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Should be administered by trained healthcare providers. ( 2.1 ) Ephedrine sulfate injection, 5 mg /mL in a pre-filled syringe, is a premixed formulation. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 General Dosage and Administration Instructions Ephedrine sulfate injection, 25 mg/5 mL (5 mg/mL) in a prefilled syringe, is a premixed formulation. 2.4 Instructions for Use of Prefilled Syringe Perform visual inspection on the syringe by verifying: Absence of syringe damage Absence of external particles Absence of internal particles Proper drug color Drug name Drug strength Fill volume Route of administration Expiration date to be sure the drug has not expired Do not use if the plastic overwrap or the prefilled syringe has been damaged. Remove the syringe from the plastic overwrap (see Figure 1). Do not pop syringe through. Figure 1. Push plunger rod slightly in to break the stopper loose while the tip cap is still on. Remove tip cap by twisting off. (See Figure 2): Figure 2. Adjust dose into sterile material (if applicable) Connect the syringe to an appropriate intravenous connection. Note: All steps must be done sequentially Do not re-sterilize syringe Do not use this product on a sterile field Do not introduce any other fluid into the syringe at any time. This product is for single dose only syringe overwrap figure 1 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Should be administered by a trained healthcare providers. ( 2.1 ) Ephedrine Sulfate injection, 50 mg/mL, must be diluted before administration as an intravenous bolus dose. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 General Dosage and Administration Instructions Ephedrine sulfate injection must be diluted before administration as an intravenous bolus to achieve the desired concentration. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Bolus intravenous injection: 5 mg to 10 mg (equivalent to 3.8 to 7.6 mg ephedrine base) as needed, not to exceed 50 mg. ( 2 ) Ready-to-Use formulation. Do not dilute. 2.1 General Dosage and Administration Instructions Ready to Use formulation. Ephedrine Sulfate Injection is a clear, colorless solution. Do not use if discolored. 2.3 Instructions for Use of Single-Dose Prefilled Syringe Important Administration Information Ephedrine Sulfate Injection is administered undiluted by slow intravenous injection. The syringe should be administered with clean gloved hands. Check the compatibility of Ephedrine Sulfate Injection with all other medications and any intravenous fluids the patient is currently receiving This product is for single dose only; discard unused portion FIGURE A. PREFILLED SYRINGE Figure A Step 1 Examine syringe for damage or cracks and ensure the Luer cap is intact. DO NOT USE if the Luer cap is missing, loose or damaged. Inspect and ensure the EPHEDRINE liquid in the prefilled syringe is clear and colorless. DO NOT USE if the liquid looks discolored, cloudy, or if the liquid contains any particulate matter. Check the expiration date on the syringe and confirm product has not expired. DO NOT USE if the expiration date has passed. Step 2 Check the intravenous site for signs of infiltration from fluid or medications leaking into surrounding tissue. If signs of infiltration are observed, existing IV administration should be discontinued. A new IV administration site should be established. Step 3 Thoroughly cleanse the injection port closest to the patient with alcohol prep pad. Step 4 Twist the tip cap to open. See Figure B. Figure B Step 5 Remove air from the syringe if necessary. With the tip of the syringe pointing up, tap the syringe barrel to make air bubbles rise to the top. Expel air and excess medication by pushing the plunger up until the edge of the plunger is at the graduation mark that corresponds to volume of the prescribed dose. See Figure C Figure C Step 6 Connect the syringe to the injection port. Step 7 If the intravenous line does not have backflow protection, pinch/clamp the intravenous tubing between intravenous bag and injection port. Step 8 Press down on the plunger of the prefilled syringe to administer the medication by intravenous bolus. Inject 5 mg to 10 mg by intravenous bolus at a time. DO NOT exceed a total dosage of 50 mg. Step 9 Remove the syringe from injection port. Step 10 If necessary, release the pinched intravenous tubing ensuring continuous flow of intravenous fluid. Alternatively, manually flush the line after administration of Ephedrine Sulfate Injection so there is no residual drug in the intravenous tubing. Step 11 Dispose of used syringe. Safely throw away syringe(s) immediately after use into an appropriate medical waste container. Figure A Figure B This is an image of Figure C. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Treatment of hypotension developing during anesthesia: Bolus intravenous injection: 5 to 10 mg as needed, not to exceed 50 mg. Dilute before use. See Full Prescribing Information for instructions on administration and preparation for injection. (2) 2.1 General Dosage and Administration Instructions Ephedrine sulfate injection must be diluted before administration to achieve the desired concentration as an intravenous bolus or intravenous infusion. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Do not use if the solution is colored or cloudy, or if it contains particulate matter. 2.2 Dosing for the Treatment of Clinically Important Hypotension in the Setting of Anesthesia The recommended dosage for the treatment of clinically important hypotension in the setting of anesthesia is an initial dose of 5 to 10 mg administered by intravenous bolus. 2.3 Preparation of a 5 mg/mL Solution for Bolus Intravenous Administration For bolus intravenous administration, prepare a solution containing a final concentration of 5 mg/mL of ephedrine sulfate injection. Withdraw 50 mg (1 mL of 50 mg/mL) of ephedrine sulfate injection and dilute with 9 mL of 5% Dextrose Injection or Sodium Chloride Injection.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None ( 4 ) 4. CONTRAINDICATIONS None None ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None (4)
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Interactions that Augment the Pressor Effect Oxytocin and oxytocic drugs Clinical Impact: Serious postpartum hypertension has been described in patients who received both a vasopressor (i.e., methoxamine, phenylephrine, ephedrine) and an oxytocic (i.e., methylergonovine, ergonovine). Some of these patients experienced a stroke. Intervention: Carefully monitor the blood pressure of individuals who have received both ephedrine and an oxytocic. Clonidine, propofol, monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), atropine Clinical Impact: These drugs augment the pressor effect of ephedrine. Intervention: Carefully monitor the blood pressure of individuals who have received both ephedrine and any of these drugs. Interactions that Antagonize the Pressor Effect Clinical Impact: These drugs antagonize the pressor effect of ephedrine. Examples: α-adrenergic antagonists, β-adrenergic receptor antagonists, reserpine, quinidine, mephentermine Other Drug Interactions Guanethidine Clinical Impact: Ephedrine may inhibit the neuron blockage produced by guanethidine, resulting in loss of antihypertensive effectiveness. Intervention: Clinician should monitor patient for blood pressor response and adjust the dosage or choice of pressor accordingly. Rocuronium Clinical Impact: Ephedrine may reduce the onset time of neuromuscular blockade when used for intubation with rocuronium if administered simultaneously with anesthetic induction. Intervention: Be aware of this potential interaction. No treatment or other interventions are needed. Epidural anesthesia Clinical Impact: Ephedrine may decrease the efficacy of epidural blockade by hastening the regression of sensory analgesia. Intervention: Monitor and treat the patient according to clinical practice. Theophylline Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of ephedrine may increase the frequency of nausea, nervousness, and insomnia. Intervention: Monitor patient for worsening symptoms and manage symptoms according to clinical practice. Cardiac glycosides Clinical Impact: Giving ephedrine with a cardiac glycoside, such as digitalis, may increase the possibility of arrhythmias. Intervention: Carefully monitor patients on cardiac glycosides who are also administered ephedrine. Interactions that Augment Pressor Effect : clonidine, oxytocin and oxytocic drugs, propofol, monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), and atropine. Monitor blood pressure. ( 7 ) Interactions that Antagonize the Pressor Effect : Antagonistic effects with α-adrenergic antagonists, β-adrenergic antagonists, reserpine, quinidine, mephentermine. ( 7 ) Guanethidine : Ephedrine may inhibit the neuron blockage produced by guanethidine, resulting in loss of antihypertensive effectiveness. Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dosage of pressor accordingly. Rocuronium : Ephedrine may reduce the onset time of neuromuscular blockade when used for intubation with rocuronium if administered simultaneously with anesthetic induction. Be aware of this potential interaction. Epidural anesthesia : Ephedrine may decrease the efficacy of epidural blockade by hastening the regression of sensory analgesia. Monitor and treat the patient according to clinical practice. Theophylline : Concomitant use of ephedrine may increase the frequency of nausea, nervousness, and insomnia. Monitor patient for worsening symptoms and manage symptoms according to clinical practice. Cardiac glycosides : Giving ephedrine with a cardiac glycoside, such as digitalis, may increase the possibility of arrhythmias. Carefully monitor patients on cardiac glycosides who are also administered ephedrine. 7. DRUG INTERACTIONS Interactions that Augment the Pressor Effect Oxytocin and oxytocic drugs Clinical Impact: Serious postpartum hypertension has been described in patients who received both a vasopressor (i.e., methoxamine, phenylephrine, ephedrine) and an oxytocic (i.e., methylergonovine, ergonovine). Intervention: Carefully monitor the blood pressure of individuals who have received both EMERPHED and EMERPHED-PFS and an oxytocic. Clonidine, propofol, monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs ), atropine Clinical Impact: These drugs augment the pressor effect of ephedrine. Intervention: Carefully monitor the blood pressure of individuals who have received both EMERPHED and EMERPHED-PFS and any of these drugs. Drugs that Antagonize the Pressor Effect α-adrenergic antagonists, β-adrenergic receptor antagonists, reserpine, quinidine, mephentermine Clinical Impact: These drugs antagonize the pressor effect of ephedrine. Other Drug Interactions Guanethidine Clinical Impact: EMERPHED and EMERPHED-PFS may inhibit the neuron blockage produced by guanethidine, resulting in loss of antihypertensive effectiveness. Rocuronium Clinical Impact: EMERPHED and EMERPHED-PFS may reduce the onset time of neuromuscular blockade when used for intubation with rocuronium if administered simultaneously with anesthetic induction. Epidural anesthesia Clinical Impact: EMERPHED and EMERPHED-PFS may decrease the efficacy of epidural blockade by hastening the regression of sensory analgesia. Theophylline Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of EMERPHED and EMERPHED-PFS may increase the frequency of nausea, nervousness, and insomnia. Cardiac glycosides Clinical Impact: Giving EMERPHED and EMERPHED-PFS with a cardiac glycoside, such as digitalis, may increase the possibility of arrhythmias. Interactions that Augment Pressor Effect: clonidine, oxytocin and oxytocic drugs, propofol, monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), and atropine. ( 7 ) Interactions that Antagonize the Pressor Effect: Antagonistic effects with α-adrenergic antagonists, β-adrenergic antagonists, reserpine, quinidine, mephentermine. ( 7 ) Guanethidine: EMERPHED and EMERPHED-PFS may inhibit the neuron blockage produced by guanethidine, resulting in loss of antihypertensive effectiveness. Rocuronium: EMERPHED and EMERPHED-PFS may reduce the onset time of neuromuscular blockade when used for intubation with rocuronium if administered simultaneously with anesthetic induction. Epidural anesthesia: EMERPHED and EMERPHED-PFS may decrease the efficacy of epidural blockade by hastening the regression of sensory analgesia. Theophylline: Concomitant use of EMERPHED and EMERPHED-PFS may increase the frequency of nausea, nervousness, and insomnia. Cardiac glycosides: Giving EMERPHED and EMERPHED-PFS with a cardiac glycoside, such as digitalis, may increase the possibility of arrhythmias. Carefully monitor patients on cardiac glycosides who are also administered EMERPHED and EMERPHED-PFS. ( 7 ) Interactions that Antagonize the Pressor Effect : Antagonistic effects with α­ adrenergic antagonists, β-adrenergic antagonists, reserpine, quinidine, mephentermine. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS I nteractions that Augment the Pressor Effect Oxytocin and oxytocic drugs C linical Impact: Serious postpartum hypertension has been described in patients who received both a vasopressor (i.e., methoxamine, phenylephrine, ephedrine) and an oxytocic (i.e., methylergonovine, ergonovine). I ntervention: Carefully monitor the blood pressure of individuals who have received both ephedrine and an oxytocic. Clonidine, propofol, monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), atropine C linical Impact: These drugs augment the pressor effect of ephedrine. I ntervention: Carefully monitor the blood pressure of individuals who have received both ephedrine and any of these drugs. I nteractions that Antagonize the Pressor Effect C linical Impact: These drugs antagonize the pressor effect of ephedrine. Examples: α-adrenergic antagonists, β-adrenergic receptor antagonists, reserpine, quinidine, mephentermine Other Drug Interactions G u anethidine C linical Impact: Ephedrine may inhibit the neuron blockage produced by guanethidine, resulting in loss of antihypertensive effectiveness. I ntervention: Clinician should monitor patient for blood pressor response and adjust the dosage or choice of pressor accordingly. Rocuronium C linical Impact: Ephedrine may reduce the onset time of neuromuscular blockade when used for intubation with rocuronium if administered simultaneously with anesthetic induction. I ntervention: Be aware of this potential interaction. Ep idural anesthesia C linical Impact: Ephedrine may decrease the efficacy of epidural blockade by hastening the regression of sensory analgesia. I ntervention: Monitor and treat the patient according to clinical practice. Th e ophylline C linical Impact: Concomitant use of ephedrine may increase the frequency of nausea, nervousness, and insomnia. I ntervention: Monitor patient for worsening symptoms and manage symptoms according to clinical practice. Cardiac glycosides C linical Impact: Giving ephedrine with a cardiac glycoside, such as digitalis, may increase the possibility of arrhythmias. I ntervention: Carefully monitor patients on cardiac glycosides who are also administered ephedrine. • I nt e r a ctio n s t ha t Augment the Pressor Effect : clonidine, oxytocin and oxytocic drugs, propofol, monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), and atropine. (7) • I nt e r acti o n s that Antagonize the Pressor Effect : Antagonistic effects with α-adrenergic antagonists, β-adrenergic antagonists, reserpine, quinidine, mephentermine. (7) • G uan e t h i d in e : Ephedrine may inhibit the neuron blockage produced by guanethidine, resulting in loss of antihypertensive effectiveness. (7) • R o cu roni u m : Ephedrine may reduce the onset time of neuromuscular blockade when used for intubation with rocuronium if administered simultaneously with anesthetic induction. (7) • Epidural anesthesia : Ephedrine may decrease the efficacy of epidural blockade by hastening the regression of sensory analgesia. (7) • T h e o ph yll in e : Concomitant use of ephedrine may increase the frequency of nausea, nervousness, and insomnia. (7) • Ca rd i a c glycosides : Giving ephedrine with a cardiac glycoside, such as digitalis, may increase the possibility of arrhythmias. (7)

=== METHIMAZOLE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methimazole tablets are indicated: In patients with Graves' disease with hyperthyroidism or toxic multinodular goiter for whom surgery or radioactive iodine therapy is not an appropriate treatment option. To ameliorate symptoms of hyperthyroidism in preparation for thyroidectomy or radioactive iodine therapy. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methimazole tablets are indicated: In patients with Graves’ disease with hyperthyroidism or toxic multinodular goiter for whom surgery or radioactive iodine therapy is not an appropriate treatment option. To ameliorate symptoms of hyperthyroidism in preparation for thyroidectomy or radioactive iodine therapy INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methimazole tablets are indicated: • In patients with Graves' disease with hyperthyroidism or toxic multinodular goiter for whom surgery or radioactive iodine therapy is not an appropriate treatment option. • To ameliorate symptoms of hyperthyroidism in preparation for thyroidectomy or radioactive iodine therapy. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methimazole tablets are indicated: • In patients with Graves’ disease with hyperthyroidism or toxic multinodular goiter for whom surgery or radioactive iodine therapy is not an appropriate treatment option.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Methimazole tablets are administered orally. The total daily dosage is usually given in 3 divided doses at approximately 8-hour intervals. Adult - The initial daily dosage is 15 mg for mild hyperthyroidism, 30 to 40 mg for moderately severe hyperthyroidism, and 60 mg for severe hyperthyroidism, divided into 3 doses at 8-hour intervals. The maintenance dosage is 5 to 15 mg daily. Pediatric - Initially, the daily dosage is 0.4 mg/kg of body weight divided into 3 doses and given at 8-hour intervals. The maintenance dosage is approximately 1/2 of the initial dose. Adults - The initial daily dosage is 15 mg for mild hyperthyroidism, 30 mg to 40 mg for moderately severe hyperthyroidism, and 60 mg for severe hyperthyroidism, divided into 3 doses at 8-hour intervals. The maintenance dosage is 5 mg to 15 mg daily. Adult The initial daily dosage is 15 mg for mild hyperthyroidism, 30 to 40 mg for moderately severe hyperthyroidism, and 60 mg for severe hyperthyroidism, divided into 3 doses at 8-hour intervals. Pediatric Initially, the daily dosage is 0.4 mg/kg of body weight divided into 3 doses and given at 8-hour intervals. The maintenance dosage is approximately ½ of the initial dose.
Warnings: WARNINGS First Trimester Use of Methimazole and Congenital Malformations Methimazole crosses the placental membranes and can cause fetal harm when administered in the first trimester of pregnancy. Rare instances of congenital defects, including aplasia cutis, craniofacial malformations (facial dysmorphism; choanal atresia), gastrointestinal malformations (esophageal atresia with or without tracheoesophageal fistula), omphalocele and abnormalities of the omphalomesenteric duct have occurred in infants born to mothers who received methimazole in the first trimester of pregnancy. If methimazole is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be warned of the potential hazard to the fetus. Because of the risk for congenital malformations associated with use of methimazole in the first trimester of pregnancy, it may be appropriate to use other agents in pregnant women requiring treatment for hyperthyroidism. If methimazole is used, the lowest possible dose to control the maternal disease should be given. Agranulocytosis Agranulocytosis is a potentially life-threatening adverse reaction of methimazole therapy. Patients should be instructed to immediately report to their physicians any symptoms suggestive of agranulocytosis, such as fever or sore throat. Leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and aplastic anemia (pancytopenia) may also occur. The drug should be discontinued in the presence of agranulocytosis or aplastic anemia (pancytopenia), and the patient's bone marrow indices should be monitored. Liver Toxicity Although there have been reports of hepatotoxicity (including acute liver failure) associated with methimazole, the risk of hepatotoxicity appears to be less with methimazole than with propylthiouracil, especially in the pediatric population. Symptoms suggestive of hepatic dysfunction (anorexia, pruritus, right upper quadrant pain, etc.) should prompt evaluation of liver function (bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase) and hepatocellular integrity (ALT, AST). Drug treatment should be discontinued promptly in the event of clinically significant evidence of liver abnormality including hepatic transaminase values exceeding 3 times the upper limit of normal. Hypothyroidism Methimazole can cause hypothyroidism necessitating routine monitoring of TSH and free T4 levels with adjustments in dosing to maintain a euthyroid state. Because the drug readily crosses placental membranes, methimazole can cause fetal goiter and cretinism when administered to a pregnant woman. For this reason, it is important that a sufficient, but not excessive, dose be given during pregnancy (see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy ). Vasculitis Cases of vasculitis resulting in severe complications have been reported in patients receiving methimazole therapy. These cases of vasculitis include: leukocytoclastic cutaneous vasculitis, acute kidney injury and glomerulonephritis, alveolar/pulmonary hemorrhage, CNS vasculitis, and neuropathy. Most cases were associated with antineutrophilic cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA)-positive vasculitis. In some cases, vasculitis resolved/improved with drug discontinuation; however, more severe cases required treatment with additional measures including corticosteroids, immunosuppressant therapy, and plasmapheresis. If vasculitis is suspected, discontinue therapy and initiate appropriate intervention. WARNINGS First Trimester Use of Methimazole and Congenital Malformations Methimazole crosses the placental membranes and can cause fetal harm, when administered in the first trimester of pregnancy. Rare instances of congenital defects, including aplasia cutis, craniofacial malformations (facial dysmorphism; choanal atresia), gastrointestinal malformations (esophageal atresia with or without tracheoesophageal fistula), omphalocele and abnormalities of the omphalomesenteric duct have occurred in infants born to mothers who received methimazole tablets in the first trimester of pregnancy. If methimazole tablets are used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be warned of the potential hazard to the fetus. Because of the risk for congenital malformations associated with use of methimazole tablets in the first trimester of pregnancy, it may be appropriate to use other agents in pregnant women requiring treatment for hyperthyroidism. If methimazole tablets are used, the lowest possible dose to control the maternal disease should be given. Agranulocytosis Agranulocytosis is potentially a life-threatening adverse reaction of methimazole therapy. Symptoms suggestive of hepatic dysfunction (anorexia, pruritis, right upper quadrant pain, etc.) should prompt evaluation of liver function (bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase) and hepatocellular integrity (ALT, AST). For this reason, it is important that a sufficient, but not excessive, dose be given during pregnancy (see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy). Most cases were associated with anti-neutrophilic cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA)-positive vasculitis. The drug should be discontinued in the presence of agranulocytosis or aplastic anemia (pancytopenia), and the patient’s bone marrow indices should be monitored. For this reason, it is important that a sufficient, but not excessive, dose be given during pregnancy [see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy ] . Rare instances of congenital defects, including aplasia cutis, craniofacial malformations (facial dysmorphism; choanal atresia), gastrointestinal malformations (esophageal atresia with or without tracheoesophageal fistula) omphalocele and abnormalities of the omphalomesenteric duct have occurred in infants born to mothers who received methimazole tablets in the first trimester of pregnancy. Because of the risk for congenital malformations associated with use of methimazole tablets in the first trimester of pregnancy it may be appropriate to use other agents in pregnant women requiring treatment for hyperthyroidism. For this reason, it is important that a sufficient, but not excessive, dose be given during pregnancy (see ).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS CONTRAINDICATIONS Methimazole tablets are contraindicated in the presence of hypersensitivity to the drug or any of the other product components.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Anticoagulants (oral) Due to potential inhibition of vitamin K activity by methimazole, the activity of oral anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin) may be increased; additional monitoring of PT/INR should be considered, especially before surgical procedures. ß-adrenergic blocking agents Hyperthyroidism may cause an increased clearance of beta blockers with a high extraction ratio. A dose reduction of beta-adrenergic blockers may be needed when a hyperthyroid patient becomes euthyroid. Digitalis glycosides Serum digitalis levels may be increased when hyperthyroid patients on a stable digitalis glycoside regimen become euthyroid; a reduced dosage of digitalis glycosides may be needed. Theophylline Theophylline clearance may decrease when hyperthyroid patients on a stable theophylline regimen become euthyroid; a reduced dose of theophylline may be needed. Drug Interactions Anticoagulants (oral): Due to potential inhibition of vitamin K activity by methimazole, the activity of oral anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin) may be increased; additional monitoring of PT/INR should be considered, especially before surgical procedures. ß-adrenergic blocking agents: Hyperthyroidism may cause an increased clearance of beta blockers with a high extraction ratio. Digitalis glycosides: Serum digitalis levels may be increased when hyperthyroid patients on a stable digitalis glycoside regimen become euthyroid; a reduced dosage of digitalis glycosides may be needed. Theophylline: Theophylline clearance may decrease when hyperthyroid patients on a stable theophylline regimen become euthyroid; a reduced dose of theophylline may be needed. Drug Interactions Anticoagulants (oral) : Due to potential inhibition of vitamin K activity by methimazole, the activity of oral anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin) may be increased; additional monitoring of PT/INR should be considered, especially before surgical procedures. β-adrenergic blocking agents : Hyperthyroidism may cause an increased clearance of beta blockers with a high extraction ratio. Digitalis glycosides : Serum digitalis levels may be increased when hyperthyroid patients on a stable digitalis glycoside regimen become euthyroid; a reduced dosage of digitalis glycosides may be needed. Theophylline : Theophylline clearance may decrease when hyperthyroid patients on a stable theophylline regimen become euthyroid; a reduced dose of theophylline may be needed. β-adrenergic blocking agents Hyperthyroidism may cause an increased clearance of beta blockers with a high extraction ratio. β-adrenergic blocking agents: Hyperthyroidism may cause an increased clearance of beta blockers with a high extraction ratio.

=== METHOTREXATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methotrexate tablets are a diydrofolate reductase inhibitor indicated for the: • Treatment of adults and pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) as part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen (1.1) • Treatment of adults with mycosis fungoides (1.1) • Treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma as part of a metronomic combination regimen (1.1) • Treatment of adults with rheumatoid arthritis (1.2) • Treatment of pediatric patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pJIA) (1.3) • Treatment of adults with severe psoriasis (1.4) 1.1 Neoplastic Diseases Methotrexate tablets are indicated for the: • treatment of adults and pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) as part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen • treatment of adults with mycosis fungoides (cutaneous T-cell lymphoma) as a single agent or as part of a combination chemotherapy regimen • treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphomas as part of a metronomic combination chemotherapy regimen 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis Methotrexate tablets are indicated for the treatment of adults with rheumatoid arthritis. 1.3 Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis Methotrexate tablets are indicated for the treatment of pediatric patients with polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (pJIA). 1.4 Psoriasis Methotrexate tablets are indicated for the treatment of adults with severe psoriasis. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methotrexate tablets are a dihydrofolate reductase inhibitor indicated for the: Treatment of adults and pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) as part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen ( 1.1 ) Treatment of adults with mycosis fungoides ( 1.1 ) Treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma as part of a metronomic combination regimen ( 1.1 ) Treatment of adults with rheumatoid arthritis ( 1.2 ) Treatment of pediatric patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pJIA) ( 1.3 ) Treatment of adults with severe psoriasis ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Neoplastic Diseases Methotrexate tablets are indicated for the: treatment of adults and pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) as part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen treatment of adults with mycosis fungoides (cutaneous T-cell lymphoma) as a single agent or as part of a combination chemotherapy regimen. treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphomas as part of a metronomic combination chemotherapy regimen 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis Methotrexate tablets are indicated for the treatment of adults with rheumatoid arthritis. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methotrexate tablets are a dihydrofolate reductase inhibitor indicated for the: • Treatment of adults and pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) as part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen ( 1.1 ) • Treatment of adults with mycosis fungoides ( 1.1 ) • Treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma as part of a metronomic combination regimen ( 1.1 ) • Treatment of adults with rheumatoid arthritis ( 1.2 ) • Treatment of pediatric patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pJIA) ( 1.3 ) • Treatment of adults with severe psoriasis ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Neoplastic Diseases Methotrexate tablets are indicated for the: • treatment of adults and pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) as part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen. • treatment of adults with mycosis fungoides (cutaneous T-cell lymphoma) as a single agent or as part of a combination chemotherapy regimen. • treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphomas as part of a metronomic combination chemotherapy regimen. 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis Methotrexate tablets are indicated for the treatment of adults with rheumatoid arthritis. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methotrexate Injection is a folate analog metabolic inhibitor indicated for: • The following neoplastic diseases for the: o Treatment of adult and pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia as part of a combination chemotherapy regimen. ( 1.1 ) o Prophylaxis and treatment of adult and pediatric patients with meningeal leukemia. ( 1.2 ) o Treatment of adult and pediatric patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma. ( 1.3 ) o Treatment of adult and pediatric patients with osteosarcoma as part of a combination chemotherapy regimen. ( 1.4 ) o Treatment of adults with breast cancer as part of a combination chemotherapy regimen. ( 1.5 ) o Treatment of adults with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck as a single agent. ( 1.6 ) o Treatment of adults with gestational trophoblastic neoplasia as part of a combination chemotherapy regimen. ( 1.7 ) • Treatment of adults with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). ( 1.8 ) • Treatment of pediatric patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pJIA). ( 1.9 ) • Treatment of adults with severe psoriasis. ( 1.10 ) 1.1 Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Methotrexate Injection is indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) as part of a combination chemotherapy regimen. 1.2 Meningeal Leukemia: Prophylaxis and Treatment Methotrexate Injection is indicated for the prophylaxis and treatment of meningeal leukemia in adult and pediatric patients. 1.3 Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma Methotrexate Injection is indicated for the treatment of adults and pediatric patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma. 1.4 Osteosarcoma Methotrexate Injection is indicated for the treatment of adults and pediatric patients with osteosarcoma as part of a combination chemotherapy regimen. 1.5 Breast Cancer Methotrexate Injection is indicated for the treatment of adults with breast cancer as part of a combination chemotherapy regimen. 1.6 Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck Methotrexate Injection is indicated for the treatment of adults with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck as a single agent. 1.7 Gestational Trophoblastic Neoplasia Methotrexate Injection is indicated for the treatment of adults with gestational trophoblastic neoplasia (GTN) as part of a combination chemotherapy regimen. 1.8 Rheumatoid Arthritis Methotrexate Injection is indicated for the treatment of adults with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). 1.9 Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis Methotrexate Injection is indicated for the treatment of pediatric patients with polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (pJIA). 1.10 Psoriasis Methotrexate Injection is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe psoriasis. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methotrexate tablets is a dihydrofolate reductase inhibitor indicated for the: Treatment of adults and pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) as part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen ( 1.1 ) Treatment of adults with mycosis fungoides ( 1.1 ) Treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma as part of a metronomic combination regimen ( 1.1 ) Treatment of adults with rheumatoid arthritis ( 1.2 ) Treatment of pediatric patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pJIA) ( 1.3 ) Treatment of adults with severe psoriasis ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Neoplastic Diseases Methotrexate tablets are indicated for the: treatment of adults and pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) as part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen treatment of adults with mycosis fungoides (cutaneous T-cell lymphoma) as a single agent or as part of a combination chemotherapy regimen treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphomas as part of a metronomic combination chemotherapy regimen 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis Methotrexate tablets are indicated for the treatment of adults with rheumatoid arthritis. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methotrexate tablets are a dihydrofolate reductase inhibitor indicated for the: Treatment of adults and pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) as part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen ( 1.1 ) Treatment of adults with mycosis fungoides ( 1.1 ) Treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma as part of a metronomic combination regimen ( 1.1 ) Treatment of adults with rheumatoid arthritis ( 1.2 ) Treatment of pediatric patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pJIA) ( 1.3 ) Treatment of adults with severe psoriasis ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Neoplastic Diseases Methotrexate tablets areindicated for the: treatment of adults and pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) aspart of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen treatment of adults with mycosis fungoides (cutaneous T-cell lymphoma) as a single agent oras part of a combination chemotherapy regimen. treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphomas as part ofa metronomic combination chemotherapy regimen 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis Methotrexate tablets are indicated for the treatment ofadults with rheumatoid arthritis. 1.3 Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis Methotrexate tablets are indicated for the treatment ofpediatric patients with polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (pJIA). 1.4 Psoriasis Methotrexate tablets are indicated forthe treatment of adults with severe psoriasis. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methotrexate tablets are a dihydrofolate reductase inhibitor indicated for the: • Treatment of adults and pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) as part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen ( 1.1 ) • Treatment of adults with mycosis fungoides ( 1.1 ) • Treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma as part of a metronomic combination regimen ( 1.1 ) • Treatment of adults with rheumatoid arthritis ( 1.2 ) • Treatment of pediatric patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pJIA) ( 1.3 ) • Treatment of adults with severe psoriasis ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Neoplastic Diseases Methotrexate tablets are indicated for the: • treatment of adults and pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) as part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen • treatment of adults with mycosis fungoides (cutaneous T-cell lymphoma) as a single agent or as part of a combination chemotherapy regimen. • treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphomas as part of a metronomic combination chemotherapy regimen 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis Methotrexate tablets are indicated for the treatment of adults with rheumatoid arthritis. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methotrexate tablets is a dihydrofolate reductase inhibitor indicated for the: Treatment of adults and pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) as part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen ( 1.1 ) Treatment of adults with mycosis fungoides ( 1.1 ) Treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma as part of a metronomic combination regimen ( 1.1 ) Treatment of adults with rheumatoid arthritis ( 1.2 ) Treatment of pediatric patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pJIA) ( 1.3 ) Treatment of adults with severe psoriasis ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Neoplastic Diseases is indicated for the: Methotrexate Tablets is indicated for the: treatment of adults and pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) as part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen treatment of adults with mycosis fungoides (cutaneous T-cell lymphoma) as a single agent or as part of a combination chemotherapy regimen. treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphomas as part of a metronomic combination chemotherapy regimen 1.2 Rheumatoid Arthritis is indicated for the treatment of adults with rheumatoid arthritis. Methotrexate Tablets is indicated for the treatment of adults with rheumatoid arthritis. 1.3 Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis is indicated for the treatment of pediatric patients with polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (pJIA). Methotrexate Tablets is indicated for the treatment of pediatric patients with polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (pJIA). 1.4 Psoriasis is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe psoriasis. Methotrexate Tablets is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe psoriasis.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Instruct patients and caregivers to take the recommended dosage as directed, because medication errors have led to deaths. (2.1, 5.9) • Verify pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential before starting methotrexate tablets. (4, 5.1) • ALL: The recommended dosage is 20 mg/m 2 orally once weekly as a part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen. (2.2) • Mycosis fungoides: The recommended dosage is 25 to 75 mg orally once weekly as monotherapy; 10 mg/m 2 orally twice weekly as part of combination chemotherapy. (2.2) • Relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma: The recommended dosage is 2.5 mg orally two to four times per week as part of metronomic combination chemotherapy. (2.2) • Rheumatoid Arthritis: The recommended starting dosage is 7.5 mg orally once weekly; adjust dose to achieve an optimal response. (2.3) • pJIA: The recommended starting dosage is 10 mg/m 2 orally once weekly; adjust dose to achieve an optimal response. (2.4) • Psoriasis: The recommended dosage is 10 to 25 mg orally once weekly until adequate response is achieved. (2.5) 2.1 Important Dosage and Safety Information Verify pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential before starting methotrexate tablets [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Instruct patients and caregivers to take the recommended dosage as directed, because medication errors have led to deaths [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. When switching the dosing regimen from oral administration to intravenous, intramuscular, or subcutaneous administration, an alternative dosing regimen may be necessary. Do not administer to patients who are unable to swallow a tablet. Methotrexate tablets are a cytotoxic drug. Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures. 1 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Neoplastic Diseases Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia The recommended starting dosage of methotrexate tablets is 20 mg/m 2 orally once weekly, as part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen. After initiating methotrexate tablets, periodically monitor absolute neutrophil count (ANC) and platelet count and adjust the dose to maintain ANC at a desirable level and for excessive myelosuppression. Mycosis Fungoides The recommended dosage of methotrexate tablets is 25 to 75 mg orally once weekly when administered as a single agent or 10 mg/m 2 orally twice weekly as part of a combination chemotherapy regimen. Relapsed or Refractory Non-Hodgkin Lymphomas The recommended dosage of methotrexate tablets is 2.5 mg orally 2 to 4 times per week (maximum 10 mg per week) as part of a metronomic combination chemotherapy regimen. 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Rheumatoid Arthritis The recommended starting dosage of methotrexate tablets is 7.5 mg orally once weekly with escalation to achieve optimal response. Dosages of more than 20 mg once weekly result in an increased risk of serious adverse reactions, including myelosuppression. When responses are observed, the majority occurred between 3 and 6 weeks from initiation of treatment; however, responses have occurred up to 12 weeks after treatment initiation. Administer folic acid or folinic acid to reduce the risk of methotrexate adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. 2.4 Recommended Dosage for Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis The recommended starting dosage of methotrexate tablets is 10 mg/m 2 orally once weekly with escalation to achieve optimal response. Dosages of more than 30 mg/m 2 once weekly result in an increased risk of serious adverse reactions, including myelosuppression. 2.5 Recommended Dosage for Psoriasis The recommended dosage of methotrexate tablets is 10 to 25 mg orally once weekly until an adequate response is achieved. Adjust the dose gradually to achieve optimal clinical response; do not exceed a dose of 30 mg per week. Once optimal clinical response has been achieved, reduce the dosage to the lowest possible dosing regimen. Administer folic acid or folinic acid supplementation to reduce the risk of methotrexate adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. 2.6 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Discontinue methotrexate tablets for: • Anaphylaxis or other severe hypersensitivity reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] • Lymphoproliferative disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] Withhold, dose reduce or discontinue methotrexate tablets as appropriate for: • Myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Withhold or discontinue methotrexate tablets as appropriate for: • Severe gastrointestinal toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions 5.4)] • Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions 5.5)] • Pulmonary toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions 5.6)] • Severe dermatologic reactions [see Warnings and Precautions 5.7)] • Severe renal toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions 5.8)] • Serious infections [see Warnings and Precautions 5.11)] • Neurotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions 5.12)] 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instruct patients and caregivers to take the recommended dosage as directed, because medication errors have led to deaths. ( 2.1 , 5.9 ) Verify pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential before starting methotrexate tablets ( 4 , 5.1 ). ALL : The recommended dosage is 20 mg/m 2 orally once weekly as a part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen. ( 2.2 ) Mycosis fungoides : The recommended dosage is 25 to 75 mg orally once weekly as monotherapy; 10 mg/m 2 orally twice weekly as part of combination chemotherapy. ( 2.2 ) Relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma : The recommended dosage is 2.5 mg orally two to four times per week as part of metronomic combination chemotherapy. ( 2.2 ) Rheumatoid Arthritis : The recommended starting dosage is 7.5 mg orally once weekly; adjust dose to achieve an optimal response ( 2.3 ) pJIA : The recommended starting dosage is 10 mg/m 2 orally once weekly; adjust dose to achieve an optimal response ( 2.4 ) Psoriasis : The recommended dosage is 10 to 25 mg orally once weekly until adequate response is achieved. ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Safety Information Verify pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential before starting methotrexate tablets [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Instruct patients and caregivers to take the recommended dosage as directed, because medication errors have led to deaths [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ]. Methotrexate tablet is a cytotoxic drug. Mycosis Fungoides The recommended dosage of methotrexate tablets is 25 mg to 75 mg orally once weekly when administered as a single agent or 10 mg/m 2 orally twice weekly as part of a combination chemotherapy regimen. Administer folic acid or folinic acid to reduce the risk of methotrexate adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. 2.5 Recommended Dosage for Psoriasis The recommended dosage of methotrexate tablets is 10 mg to 25 mg orally once weekly until an adequate response is achieved. Administer folic acid or folinic acid supplementation to reduce the risk of methotrexate adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. 2.6 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Discontinue methotrexate tablets for: Anaphylaxis or other severe hypersensitivity reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Lymphoproliferative disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] Withhold, dose reduce or discontinue methotrexate tablets as appropriate for: Myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Withhold or discontinue methotrexate tablets as appropriate for: Severe gastrointestinal toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] Pulmonary toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] Severe dermatologic reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] Severe renal toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] Serious infections [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] Neurotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] ( 2.1 , 5.9 ) • Verify pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential before starting methotrexate tablets ( 4 , 5.1 ). • ALL : The recommended dosage is 20 mg/m 2 orally once weekly as a part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen. ( 2.2 ) • Mycosis fungoides : The recommended dosage is 25 to 75 mg orally once weekly as monotherapy; 10 mg/m 2 orally twice weekly as part of combination chemotherapy. ( 2.2 ) • Relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma : The recommended dosage is 2.5 mg orally two to four times per week as part of metronomic combination chemotherapy. ( 2.2 ) • Rheumatoid Arthritis : The recommended starting dosage is 7.5 mg orally once weekly; adjust dose to achieve an optimal response ( 2.3 ) • pJIA : The recommended starting dosage is 10 mg/m 2 orally once weekly; adjust dose to achieve an optimal response ( 2.4 ) • Psoriasis : The recommended dosage is 10 to 25 mg orally once weekly until adequate response is achieved. ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Safety Information Verify pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential before starting methotrexate tablets [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Instruct patients and caregivers to take the recommended dosage as directed, because medication errors have led to deaths [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . Administer folic acid or folinic acid supplementation to reduce the risk of methotrexate adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] . 2.6 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Discontinue methotrexate tablets for: • Anaphylaxis or other severe hypersensitivity reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] • Lymphoproliferative disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] Withhold, dose reduce or discontinue methotrexate tablets as appropriate for: • Myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Withhold or discontinue methotrexate tablets as appropriate for: • Severe gastrointestinal toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] • Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] • Pulmonary toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] • Severe dermatologic reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] • Severe renal toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] • Serious infections [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] • Neurotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Verify pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential before starting Methotrexate Injection. ( 2.1 , 4 , 5.1 ) • Neoplastic diseases: Refer to the prescribing information for disease specific dosing recommendations. Follow guidelines for high-dose regimens. ( 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 , 2.6 , 2.7 , 2.8 , 2.9 ) • RA: Recommended starting dosage of 7.5 mg once weekly intramuscularly; adjust dose to achieve an optimal response. ( 2.10 ) • pJIA: Recommended starting dosage of 10 mg/m 2 once weekly subcutaneously or intramuscularly; adjust dose to achieve an optimal response. ( 2.11 ) • Psoriasis: Recommended dosage of 10 mg to 25 mg once weekly intramuscularly or intravenously; adjust dose to achieve optimal response. Once achieved, reduce to lowest possible dosage. ( 2.12 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Safety Information • Use only preservative-free Methotrexate Injection for treatment of neonates or low birth weight infants and for intrathecal use. Do not use benzyl alcohol-containing formulations for high-dose regimens unless immediate treatment is required and preservative-free formulations are not available [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. • Verify pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential before starting Methotrexate Injection [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. • For patients switching between a methotrexate product administered orally and Methotrexate Injection, consider potential differences in bioavailability . 2.2 Recommended Monitoring and Concomitant Therapies for Intermediate- and High-Dose Regimens To decrease the risk of severe adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ] : • Administer leucovorin rescue in patients receiving Methotrexate Injection doses of 500 mg/m 2 or greater (e.g., high-dose) . • Consider leucovorin rescue for patients receiving Methotrexate Injection doses between 100 mg/m 2 to less than 500 mg/m 2 (e.g., intermediate-dose). Refer to the leucovorin prescribing information for additional information. • For high-dose Methotrexate Injection regimens, follow the supportive care and monitoring instructions below. Also consider for patients receiving intermediate-dose Methotrexate Injection regimens. - Monitor serum creatinine, electrolytes, at baseline and at least daily during therapy - Administer intravenous fluids starting before the first dose and continuing throughout treatment to maintain adequate hydration and urine output - Alkalinize urine starting before the first dose and continuing throughout treatment to maintain a urinary pH of 7 or higher - Monitor methotrexate concentrations at least daily and adjust hydration and leucovorin dosing as needed • Administer glucarpidase in patients who have toxic plasma methotrexate concentrations (>1 micromole per liter) and delayed methotrexate clearance due to impaired renal function (refer to the glucarpidase prescribing information for additional information). 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Methotrexate Injection is used as part of a multi-drug regimen. The recommended dosage varies from 10 to 5000 mg/m 2 intravenously. For high-dose Methotrexate Injection regimens, use leucovorin rescue in accordance with high-dose methotrexate regimen guidelines [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] . Lower doses (e.g., 20 to 30 mg/m 2 per week) may be used intramuscularly. Individualize the dose and schedule of Methotrexate Injection based on disease state, patient risk category, concurrent drugs used, phase of treatment, and response to treatment. 2.4 Recommended Dosage for Meningeal Leukemia: Prophylaxis and Treatment Use only preservative-free Methotrexate Injection for intrathecal use. Prior to administration, dilute preservative-free Methotrexate Injection to a concentration of 1 mg/mL in preservative-free 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP. The recommended intrathecal dose of Methotrexate Injection (preservative-free) is based on age: • less than 1 year: 6 mg • 1 to less than 2 years: 8 mg • 2 to less than 3 years: 10 mg • 3 to less than 9 years: 12 mg • greater than or equal to 9 years: 12 to15 mg For treatment of meningeal leukemia, intrathecal methotrexate may be given at intervals of 2 or more days up to twice weekly; however, administration at intervals of less than 1 week may result in increased subacute toxicity. For meningeal leukemia prophylaxis, Methotrexate Injection is administered no more than once weekly. For patients with Down Syndrome, administer leucovorin rescue with intrathecal Methotrexate Injection. 2.5 Recommended Dosage for Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma The recommended dosage of Methotrexate Injection varies. When used in combination, recommended dosages range from 10 mg/m 2 to 8000 mg/m 2 intravenously. When used as a single agent, recommended dosages include 8000 mg/m 2 intravenously for central nervous system-directed therapy or 5 to 75 mg intravenously for cutaneous forms of non-Hodgkin lymphoma. As part of a combination chemotherapy regimen, a recommended dosage of Methotrexate Injection is 1000 mg/m 2 or 3000 mg/m 2 as an intravenous infusion over 24 hours followed by leucovorin rescue in accordance with high-dose methotrexate regimen guidelines [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] . For central nervous system-directed therapy, a recommended dosage of Methotrexate Injection is 8000 mg/m 2 as an intravenous infusion over 4 hours as a single agent or in combination with immunochemotherapy at doses ranging from 3000 mg/m 2 to 8000 mg/m 2 followed by leucovorin rescue in accordance with high-dose methotrexate regimen guidelines [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] . For intrathecal Methotrexate Injection (preservative-free), the recommended dose is based on age [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . The frequency of administration varies based on whether it is being used for treatment or prophylaxis, and other factors. 2.6 Recommended Dosage for Osteosarcoma The recommended dosage of Methotrexate Injection is typically 12 g/m 2 (maximum 20 g/dose) as an intravenous infusion over 4 hours administered as a component of a combination chemotherapy regimen. Administer leucovorin rescue in accordance with high-dose methotrexate regimen guidelines [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. Subsequent doses may need to be adjusted based on observed peak serum methotrexate concentrations. Dosage and schedule may vary based upon factors such as patient comorbidities, disease state, and prior treatments. 2.7 Recommended Dosage for Breast Cancer A recommended dosage of Methotrexate Injection is 40 mg/m 2 intravenously as a component of a cyclophosphamide- and fluorouracil-based multi-drug regimen. 2.8 Recommended Dosage for Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Head and Neck The recommended dosage of Methotrexate Injection ranges from 40 to 60 mg/m 2 intravenously once weekly. 2.9 Recommended Dosage for Gestational Trophoblastic Neoplasia For patients with low-risk gestational trophoblastic neoplasia (GTN) a recommended dosage for Methotrexate Injection is 30 mg/m 2 to 200 mg/m 2 or 0.4 mg/kg to1 mg/kg intravenously or intramuscularly. For patients with high-risk GTN, a recommended dosage for Methotrexate Injection is 300 mg/m 2 over 12 hours as an intravenous infusion as a component of a multi-drug regimen. 2.10 Recommended Dosage for Rheumatoid Arthritis The recommended starting dosage of Methotrexate Injection is 7.5 mg once weekly, administered intramuscularly with escalation to achieve optimal response. Administer folic acid or folinic acid to reduce the risk of methotrexate adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. 2.11 Recommended Dosage for Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis The recommended starting dosage of Methotrexate Injection is 10 mg/m 2 once weekly administered subcutaneously or intramuscularly, with escalation to achieve optimal response. Dosages over 30 mg/m 2 per week may result in an increased risk of serious adverse reactions, including myelosuppression. 2.12 Recommended Dosage for Psoriasis The recommended dosage of Methotrexate Injection is 10 mg to 25 mg intramuscularly or intravenously once weekly until adequate response is achieved. Adjust the dose gradually to achieve optimal clinical response; do not exceed 25 mg per week. 2.13 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Discontinue Methotrexate Injection for: • Anaphylaxis or other severe hypersensitivity reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] • Lymphoproliferative disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] Withhold, dose reduce or discontinue Methotrexate Injection as appropriate for: • Myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Withhold or discontinue Methotrexate Injection as appropriate for: • Serious infections [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] • Renal toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] • Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] • Neurotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] • Gastrointestinal toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] • Pulmonary toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] • Dermatologic reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] 2.14 Administration and Handling Information Methotrexate Injection is a hazardous drug. Follow applicable special handling and disposable procedures. 1 With Preservative (Multiple-Dose Vial) • Methotrexate Injection formulation containing benzyl alcohol as a preservative may be administered by intramuscular, intravenous, or subcutaneous injection [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . Methotrexate Injection with preservative may be further diluted with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP. Diluted product should be used within 4 hours when stored at room temperature (20°C to 25°C) or 24 hours under refrigeration (2°C to 8°C). • Visually inspect product for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Discard if particulate matter or discoloration is observed. Preservative-Free (Single-Dose Vial) Methotrexate Injection preservative-free may be administered by intramuscular, intravenous, subcutaneous, or intrathecal injection. • Use only preservative-free Methotrexate Injection for treatment of neonates or low birth weight infants and for intrathecal use [see Warning and Precautions (5.3) and Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . • Use preservative-free Methotrexate Injection for high-dose regimens unless immediate treatment is required, and preservative-free formulations are not available [see Warning and Precautions (5.3) and Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . • Preservative-free Methotrexate Injection may be further diluted before use with preservative-free 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP. Diluted product should be used within 4 hours when stored at room temperature (20°C to 25°C) or 24 hours when stored under refrigeration (2°C to 8°C). • Visually inspect for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. • Verify pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential before starting Methotrexate Injection [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . • For patients switching between a methotrexate product administered orally and Methotrexate Injection, consider potential differences in bioavailability. Administer leucovorin rescue in accordance with high-dose methotrexate regimen guidelines [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] . Administer folic acid or folinic acid to reduce the risk of methotrexate adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] . • Use preservative-free Methotrexate Injection for high-dose regimens unless immediate treatment is required, and preservative-free formulations are not available [see Warning and Precautions (5.3) and Use in Specific Populations (8.4)] . • Preservative-free Methotrexate Injection may be further diluted before use with preservative‑free 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP. ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Safety Information Verify pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential before starting methotrexate tablets [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Instruct patients and caregivers to take the recommended dosage as directed, because medication errors have led to deaths [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] . Administer folic acid or folinic acid to reduce the risk of methotrexate adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . Administer folic acid or folinic acid supplementation to reduce the risk of methotrexate adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . 2.6 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Discontinue methotrexate tablets for: Anaphylaxis or other severe hypersensitivity reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Lymphoproliferative disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 )] Withhold, dose reduce or discontinue methotrexate tablets as appropriate for: Myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] Withhold or discontinue methotrexate tablets as appropriate for: Severe gastrointestinal toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] Pulmonary toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] Severe dermatologic reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] Severe renal toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] Serious infections [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )] Neurotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Safety Information Verify pregnancy status in females ofreproductive potential before starting methotrexate tablets [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Instruct patients and caregivers totake the recommended dosage as directed, because medication errors have led to deaths [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ]. When switching the dosing regimen from oral administrationtointravenous, intramuscular, or subcutaneous administration, an alternative dosing regimen may be necessary. Do not administer to patients who are unabletoswallow a tablet. Methotrexate tabletisa cytotoxic drug. 1 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Neoplastic Diseases Acute LymphoblasticLeukemia The recommended starting dosage ofmethotrexate tablets is 20 mg/m 2 orally once weekly, as part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen. MycosisFungoides The recommended dosage of methotrexate tablets is 25 mgto75 mg orally once weekly when administered as a single agent or 10 mg/m 2 orally twice weekly as part of a combination chemotherapy regimen. Relapsed or RefractoryNon-Hodgkin Lymphomas The recommended dosage of methotrexate tablets is 2.5 mg orally 2to4 times per week (maximum 10 mg per week) as part of a metronomic combination chemotherapy regimen. Administer folic acidorfolinic acid to reduce the risk of methotrexate adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. Adjust the dose gradually to achieve optimal clinical response; do not exceedadose of 30 mg per week. Administer folic acid or folinic acid supplementation to reduce the riskofmethotrexate adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. 2.6 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Discontinue methotrexate tablets for: Anaphylaxis or other severe hypersensitivity reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Lymphoproliferative disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13) ] Withhold, dose reduce or discontinue methotrexate tablets as appropriate for: Myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Withhold or discontinue methotrexate tablets as appropriate for: Severe gastrointestinaltoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] Pulmonarytoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] Severedermatologicreactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] Severerenaltoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] Seriousinfections [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] Neurotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] ( 2.1 , 5. 9) • Verify pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential before starting methotrexate tablets ( 4 , 5.1 ). • ALL: The recommended dosage is 20 mg/m 2 orally once weekly as a part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen. ( 2.2 ) • Mycosis fungoides: The recommended dosage is 25 to 75 mg orally once weekly as monotherapy; 10 mg/m 2 orally twice weekly as part of combination chemotherapy. ( 2.2 ) • Relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma: The recommended dosage is 2.5 mg orally two to four times per week as part of metronomic combination chemotherapy. ( 2.2 ) • Rheumatoid Arthritis: The recommended starting dosage is 7.5 mg orally once weekly; adjust dose to achieve an optimal response ( 2.3 ) • pJIA: The recommended starting dosage is 10 mg/m 2 orally once weekly; adjust dose to achieve an optimal response ( 2.4 ) • Psoriasis: The recommended dosage is 10 to 25 mg orally once weekly until adequate response is achieved. Instruct patients and caregivers to take the recommended dosage as directed, because medication errors have led to deaths [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )]. 1 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Neoplastic Diseases Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia The recommended starting dosage of methotrexate tablets are 20 mg/m 2 orally once weekly, as part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen. Mycosis Fungoides The recommended dosage of methotrexate tablets are 25 to 75 mg orally once weekly when administered as a single agent or 10 mg/m 2 orally twice weekly as part of a combination chemotherapy regimen. Relapsed or Refractory Non-Hodgkin Lymphomas The recommended dosage of methotrexate tablets are 2.5 mg orally 2 to 4 times per week (maximum 10 mg per week) as part of a metronomic combination chemotherapy regimen. 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Rheumatoid Arthritis The recommended starting dosage of methotrexate tablets are 7.5 mg orally once weekly with escalation to achieve optimal response. 2.4 Recommended Dosage for Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis The recommended starting dosage of methotrexate tablets are 10 mg/m 2 orally once weekly with escalation to achieve optimal response. 2.5 Recommended Dosage for Psoriasis The recommended dosage of methotrexate tablets are 10 to 25 mg orally once weekly until an adequate response is achieved. 2.6 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Discontinue Methotrexate Tablets for: • Anaphylaxis or other severe hypersensitivity reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] • Lymphoproliferative disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 )] Withhold, dose reduce or discontinue methotrexate tablets as appropriate for: • Myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] Withhold or discontinue methotrexate tablets as appropriate for: • Severe gastrointestinal toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] • Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] • Pulmonary toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] • Severe dermatologic reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] • Severe renal toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] • Serious infections [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )] • Neurotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )] ALL: The recommended dosage is 20 mg/m 2 orally once weekly as a part of a combination chemotherapy maintenance regimen. ( 2.2 ) Mycosis fungoides: The recommended dosage is 25 mg to 75 mg orally once weekly as monotherapy; 10 mg/m 2 orally twice weekly as part of combination chemotherapy. ( 2.2 ) Relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma: The recommended dosage is 2.5 mg orally two to four times per week as part of metronomic combination chemotherapy. ( 2.2 ) Rheumatoid Arthritis: The recommended starting dosage is 7.5 mg orally once weekly; adjust dose to achieve an optimal response ( 2.3 ) pJIA: The recommended starting dosage is 10 mg/m 2 orally once weekly; adjust dose to achieve an optimal response ( 2.4 ) Psoriasis: The recommended dosage is 10 mg to 25 mg orally once weekly until adequate response is achieved. ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Safety Information in females of reproductive potential before starting Methotrexate Tablets Verify pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential before starting Methotrexate Tablets [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Instruct patients and caregivers to take the recommended dosage as directed, because medication errors have led to deaths Instruct patients and caregivers to take the recommended dosage as directed, because medication errors have led to deaths [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )]. When switching the dosing regimen from oral administration to intravenous, intramuscular, or subcutaneous administration, an alternative dosing regimen may be necessary.When switching the dosing regimen from oral administration to intravenous, intramuscular, or subcutaneous administration, an alternative dosing regimen may be necessary. Do not administer to patients who are unable to swallow a tablet.Do not administer to patients who are unable to swallow a tablet. Methotrexate Tablets is a cytotoxic drug. When responses are observed, the majority occurred between 3 and 6 weeks from initiation of treatment; however, responses have occurred up to 12 weeks after treatment initiation.The recommended starting dosage of Methotrexate Tablets is 7.5 mg orally once weekly with escalation to achieve optimal response. Administer folic acid or folinic acid to reduce the risk of methotrexate adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )]. 2.4 Recommended Dosage for Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis The recommended starting dosage of Methotrexate Tablets is 10 mg/m orally once weekly with escalation to achieve optimal response. Dosages of more than 30 mg/m once weekly result in an increased risk of serious adverse reactions, including myelosuppression. The recommended starting dosage of Methotrexate Tablets is 10 mg/m 2 orally once weekly with escalation to achieve optimal response. or folinic acid to reduce the risk of methotrexate adverse reactions Administer folic acid or folinic acid to reduce the risk of methotrexate adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )]. or folinic acid supplementation to reduce the risk of methotrexate adverse reactions The recommended dosage of Methotrexate Tablets is 10 to 25 mg orally once weekly until an adequate response is achieved. Administer folic acid or folinic acid supplementation to reduce the risk of methotrexate adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )]. 2.6 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Discontinue Methotrexate Tablets for:Discontinue Methotrexate Tablets for: Anaphylaxis or other severe hypersensitivity reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Lymphoproliferative disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 )] Withhold, dose reduce or discontinue Methotrexate Tablets as appropriate for:Withhold, dose reduce or discontinue Methotrexate Tablets as appropriate for: Myelosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] Methotrexate Tablets as appropriate for: Withhold or discontinue Methotrexate Tablets as appropriate for: Severe gastrointestinal toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] Pulmonary toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )] Severe dermatologic reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] Severe renal toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] Serious infections [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )] Neurotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.12 )]
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Methotrexate tablets are contraindicated in: • Pregnant women receiving methotrexate tablets for treatment of non-neoplastic diseases [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1), and Use in Specific Populations (8.1, 8.3)]. • Patients with a history of severe hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, to methotrexate. [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. • In pregnancy for non-neoplastic diseases (4) • History of severe hypersensitivity to methotrexate (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Methotrexate tablets are contraindicated in: Pregnant women receiving methotrexate tablets for treatment of non-neoplastic diseases [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , and Use in Specific Populations (8.1 , 8.3) ] . Patients with a history of a severe hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, to methotrexate. [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. In pregnancy for non-neoplastic diseases ( 4 ) History of severe hypersensitivity to methotrexate ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Methotrexate tablets are contraindicated in: • Pregnant women receiving methotrexate tablets for treatment of non-neoplastic diseases [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , and Use in Specific Populations (8.1 , 8.3) ] . • Patients with a history of a severe hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, to methotrexate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . • In pregnancy for non-neoplastic diseases ( 4 ) • History of severe hypersensitivity to methotrexate ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Methotrexate Injection is contraindicated in: • Patients with history of severe hypersensitivity to methotrexate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . • Pregnancy in patients with non-neoplastic diseases [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ] . • History of severe hypersensitivity to methotrexate. ( 4 ) • Pregnancy: in patients with non-neoplastic diseases. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Methotrexate tablets are contraindicated in: Pregnant women receiving methotrexate tablets for treatment of non-neoplastic diseases [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 , 8.3 )] . Patients with a history of a severe hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, to methotrexate [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Methotrexate tabletsarecontraindicated in: Pregnant women receiving methotrexate tablets for treatmentofnon-neoplastic diseases [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , and Use in Specific Populations (8.1 , 8.3) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Methotrexate tablets are contraindicated in: • Pregnant women receiving methotrexate tablets for treatment of non-neoplastic diseases [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 , 8.3 )] . • Patients with a history of a severe hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, to methotrexate. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS is contraindicated in: Methotrexate Tablets is contraindicated in: Pregnant women receiving Methotrexate Tablets for treatment of non-neoplastic diseases [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 , 8.3 )]. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )].
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Refer to the full prescribing information for drug interactions with methotrexate. (7) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Methotrexate Drugs that Increase Methotrexate Exposure Coadministration of methotrexate with the following products may increase methotrexate plasma concentrations, which may increase the risk of methotrexate severe adverse reactions. In some cases, the coadministration of methotrexate with these products may also subsequently reduce active metabolite formation, which may decrease the clinical effectiveness of methotrexate. Increased organ specific adverse reactions may also occur when methotrexate is coadministered with hepatotoxic or nephrotoxic products. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor closely for methotrexate adverse reactions when coadministered with: Oral antibiotics (including neomycin) Antifolate drugs (e.g., dapsone, pemetrexed, pyrimethamine and sulfonamides) Oral or intravenous penicillin or sulfonamide antibiotics Aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti- inflammatory drugs Hepatotoxic products Highly protein-bound drugs (e.g., oral anticoagulants, phenytoin, salicylates, sulfonamides, sulfonylureas, and tetracyclines) Proton pump inhibitors Weak acids (e.g., salicylates) Nephrotoxic products Probenecid Nitrous Oxide Coadministration of methotrexate with nitrous oxide anesthesia potentiates the effect of methotrexate on folate-dependent metabolic pathways, which may increase the risk of severe methotrexate adverse reactions. Avoid nitrous oxide anesthesia in patients receiving methotrexate. Consider alternative therapies in patients who have received prior nitrous oxide anesthesia. Folic Acid Coadministration of methotrexate with folic acid or its derivatives decreases the clinical effectiveness of methotrexate in patients with neoplastic diseases. Methotrexate competes with reduced folates for active transport across cell membranes. Instruct patients to take folic or folinic acid only as directed by their healthcare provider [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. ( 7 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Methotrexate Drugs that Increase Methotrexate Exposure Coadministration of methotrexate with the following products may increase methotrexate plasma concentrations, which may increase the risk of methotrexate severe adverse reactions. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor closely for methotrexate adverse reactions when coadministered with: Oral antibiotics (including neomycin) Oral or intravenous penicillin or sulfonamide antibiotics Highly protein-bound drugs (e.g., oral anticoagulants, phenytoin, salicylates, sulfonamides, sulfonylureas, and tetracyclines) Probenecid Antifolate drugs (e.g., dapsone, pemetrexed, pyrimethamine and sulfonamides) Aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs Hepatotoxic products Proton pump inhibitors Weak acids (e.g., salicylates) Nephrotoxic products Nitrous Oxide Coadministration of methotrexate with nitrous oxide anesthesia potentiates the effect of methotrexate on folate-dependent metabolic pathways, which may increase the risk of severe methotrexate adverse reactions. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor closely for methotrexate adverse reactions when coadministered with: • Oral antibiotics (including neomycin) • Oral or intravenous penicillin or sulfonamide antibiotics • Highly protein-bound drugs (e.g., oral anticoagulants, phenytoin, salicylates, sulfonamides, sulfonylureas, and tetracyclines) • Probencid • Antifolate drugs (e.g., dapsone, pemetrexed, pyrimethamine and sulfonamides) • Aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs • Hepatotoxic products • Proton pump inhibitors • Weak acids (e.g., salicylates) • Nephrotoxic products Nitrous Oxide Coadministration of methotrexate with nitrous oxide anesthesia potentiates the effect of methotrexate on folate-dependent metabolic pathways, which may increase the risk of severe methotrexate adverse reactions. Instruct patients to take folic or folinic acid only as directed by their healthcare provider [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Refer to full prescribing information for drug interactions with Methotrexate Injection. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor closely for methotrexate adverse reactions when coadministered with: • Penicillin or sulfonamide antibiotics • Highly protein bound drugs (e.g., oral anticoagulants, phenytoin, salicylates, sulfonamides, sulfonylureas, and tetracyclines) • Proton pump inhibitors • Probenecid • Antifolate drugs (e.g., dapsone, pemetrexed, pyrimethamine and sulfonamides) • Aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs Unexpectedly severe and fatal gastrointestinal toxicity can occur with concomitant administration of methotrexate (primarily at high-dose) and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). • Mercaptopurine • Hepatotoxic products • Weak acids (e.g., salicylates) • Nephrotoxic products • Hematotoxic agents Nitrous Oxide Coadministration of methotrexate with nitrous oxide anesthesia potentiates the effect of methotrexate on folate-dependent metabolic pathways, which may increase the risk of severe methotrexate adverse reactions. Instruct patients to take folic or folinic acid only as directed by their healthcare provider [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ]. 7.2 Effects of Methotrexate on Other Drugs Theophylline Coadministration of methotrexate with theophylline increases theophylline plasma concentrations which may increase the risk of theophylline adverse reactions. Monitor theophylline levels and adjust the theophylline dosage in accordance with approved product labeling. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor closely for methotrexate adverse reactions when coadministered with: Oral antibiotics (including neomycin) Antifolate drugs (e.g., dapsone, pemetrexed, pyrimethamine and sulfonamides) Oral or intravenous penicillin or sulfonamide antibiotics Aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs Hepatotoxic products Highly protein-bound drugs (e.g., oral Proton pump inhibitors anticoagulants, phenytoin, salicylates, Weak acids (e.g., salicylates) sulfonamides, sulfonylureas, and tetracyclines) Nephrotoxic products Probenecid Nitrous Oxide Coadministration of methotrexate with nitrous oxide anesthesia potentiates the effect of methotrexate on folate-dependent metabolic pathways, which may increase the risk of severe methotrexate adverse reactions. Instruct patients to take folic or folinic acid only as directed by their healthcare provider [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor closely for methotrexate adverse reactions when coadministered with: • Oral antibiotics (including neomycin) • Oral or intravenous penicillin or sulphonamide antibiotics • Antifolate drugs (e.g., dapsone, pemetrexed, pyrimethamine and sulphonamides) • Aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs • Hepatotoxic products • Highly protein-bound drugs (e.g., oral anticoagulants, phenytoin, salicylates, sulfonamides, sulfonylureas, and tetracyclines) • Proton pump inhibitors • Weak acids (e.g., salicylates) • Probenecid • Nephrotoxic products Nitrous Oxide Coadministration of methotrexate with nitrous oxide anesthesia potentiates the effect of methotrexate on folate-dependent metabolic pathways, which may increase the risk of severe methotrexate adverse reactions. If coadministration cannot be avoided, monitor closely for methotrexate adverse reactions when coadministered with: Oral antibiotics (including neomycin) Antifolate drugs (e.g., dapsone, pemetrexed, pyrimethamine and sulfonamides) Oral or intravenous penicillin or sulfonamide antibiotics Aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs Highly protein-bound drugs (e.g., oral anticoagulants, phenytoin, salicylates, sulfonamides, sulfonylureas, and tetracyclines) Hepatotoxic products Proton pump inhibitors Weak acids (e.g., salicylates) Nephrotoxic products Probenecid Nitrous Oxide Coadministration of methotrexate with nitrous oxide anesthesia potentiates the effect of methotrexate on folate-dependent metabolic pathways, which may increase the risk of severe methotrexate adverse reactions. Instruct patients to take folic or folinic acid only as directed by their healthcare provider [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )].

=== OATMEAL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Use Help prevent and temporarily protects chafed, chapped, or cracked skin. Purpose Antibacterial Purpose Skin Protectant Uses Anti-bacterial, reduces itchy and painful skin conditions due to eczema, athletes foot, psoriasis, jock itch, rash, skin yeast infection and more. Purpose - Skin Protectant
Indications: Baby XtraCare® Oatmeal Daily Moisturizing Lotion Lightly Scented Dimethicon Skin Protectant with Natural Oat Extract Helps Soothe & Soften Baby's Skin 12 FL OZ (354 mL) Uses For washing to decrease bacteria on the skin Uses Temporarily protects and helps relieve minor skin irritation and itching due to: rashes eczema poison ivy, oak or sumac insect bites Uses Temporarily protects and helps relieve minor skin irritation and itching due to: ●Eczema ●Rashes USES Temporarily protects and helps relieve minor skin irritations and itching due to rashes or eczema. Uses Temporarily protects and helps relieve minor skin irritation and itching due to: eczema rashes Uses Temporarily protects and helps relieve minor skin irritation and itching due to eczema. Directions Wash and dry affected area, apply a thin layer of LMNOOP over affected area, gently massage until fully absorbed, repeat 2-3 times daily. Uses Temporarily protects and helps relieve minor skin irritation and itching due to rashes eczema poison ivy ,oak, or sumac insect bites Use Temporarily protects and helps relieve minor skin irritation and itching due to rashes and eczema
Dosage: Directions Apply liberally as often as needed. Directions Wet hands. Apply palmful to hands. Scrub thoroughly. Rinse thoroughly. Directions Apply as needed Directions ● apply as needed DIRECTIONS Apply as needed to hands. Directions Apply as needed. Dosage and administration Children under 3 months: ask a doctor.
Warnings: Warnings For extenal use only. When using this product avoid contact with eyes. In case of eye contact, flush with water. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens. Symptoms last more than 7days or clear up and occur again within a few days. Warnings For External Use only. If contact occurs, rinse eyes thoroughly with water. Stop use and ask a doctor irritation or redness develops - condition persists for more than 72 hours. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Do not get into eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens, symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. When using this product ● do not get into eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if ● condition worsens ● symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days. if contact occurs, rinse thoroughly with water. When using this product do not get into eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if: condition worsens symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days. Stop use and ask a doctor if: Conditions worsen Symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days. Keep out of reach of children . Warnings For external only When using this product do not get into eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if conditions worsens symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. For external use only

=== RABEPRAZOLE SODIUM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated in adults for: Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) ( 1.1 ). Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD ( 1.2 ). Treatment of Symptomatic GERD ( 1.3 ). Healing of Duodenal Ulcers ( 1.4 ). Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence ( 1.5 ). Treatment of Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome ( 1.6 ). In adolescent patients 12 years of age and older for: Short-term Treatment of Symptomatic GERD ( 1.7 ). 1.1 Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD in Adults Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated for short-term (4 to 8 weeks) treatment in the healing and symptomatic relief of erosive or ulcerative gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). For those patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets may be considered. 1.2 Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD in Adults Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated for maintaining healing and reduction in relapse rates of heartburn symptoms in patients with erosive or ulcerative gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD Maintenance). Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months. 1.3 Treatment of Symptomatic GERD in Adults Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of daytime and nighttime heartburn and other symptoms associated with GERD in adults for up to 4 weeks. 1.4 Healing of Duodenal Ulcers in Adults Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated for short-term (up to four weeks) treatment in the healing and symptomatic relief of duodenal ulcers. Most patients heal within four weeks. 1.5 Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence in Adults Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets, in combination with amoxicillin and clarithromycin as a three drug regimen, are indicated for the treatment of patients with H. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease (active or history within the past 5 years) to eradicate H. pylori . Eradication of H. pylori has been shown to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence. In patients who fail therapy, susceptibility testing should be done. If resistance to clarithromycin is demonstrated or susceptibility testing is not possible, alternative antimicrobial therapy should be instituted [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) and the full prescribing information for clarithromycin ] . 1.6 Treatment of Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome in Adults Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated for the long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. 1.7 Treatment of Symptomatic GERD in Adolescent Patients 12 Years of Age and Older Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of symptomatic GERD in adolescents 12 years of age and above for up to 8 weeks. If resistance to clarithromycin is demonstrated or susceptibility testing is not possible, alternative antimicrobial therapy should be instituted [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) and the full prescribing information for clarithromycin]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated in adults for: • Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) ( 1.1 ). • Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD ( 1.2 ). • Treatment of Symptomatic GERD ( 1.3 ). • Healing of Duodenal Ulcers ( 1.4 ). • Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence ( 1.5 ). • Treatment of Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome ( 1.6 ). In adolescent patients 12 years of age and older for: • Short-term Treatment of Symptomatic GERD ( 1.7 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated in adults for: Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) ( 1.1 ). If resistance to clarithromycin is demonstrated or susceptibility testing is not possible, alternative antimicrobial therapy should be instituted [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) and the full prescribing information for clarithromycin ] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated in adults for: • Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD)( 1.1 ) • Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD ( 1.2 ) • Treatment of Symptomatic GERD ( 1.3 ) • Healing of Duodenal Ulcers ( 1.4 ) • Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence ( 1.5 ) • Treatment of Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome ( 1.6 ) In adolescent patients 12 years of age and older for: • Short-term treatment of Symptomatic GERD ( 1.7 ) 1.1 Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD in Adults Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets is indicated for short-term (4 to 8 weeks) treatment in the healing and symptomatic relief of erosive or ulcerative gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). 1.2 Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD in Adults Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets is indicated for maintaining healing and reduction in relapse rates of heartburn symptoms in patients with erosive or ulcerative gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD Maintenance). 1.3 Treatment of Symptomatic GERD in Adults Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets is indicated for the treatment of daytime and nighttime heartburn and other symptoms associated with GERD in adults. 1.4 Healing of Duodenal Ulcers in Adults Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets is indicated for short-term (up to four weeks) treatment in the healing and symptomatic relief of duodenal ulcers. 1.5 Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence in Adults Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets in combination with amoxicillin and clarithromycin as a three drug regimen, is indicated for the treatment of patients with H. pylori has been shown to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence [ see Clinical Studies (14.5) and Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. If resistance to clarithromycin is demonstrated or susceptibility testing is not possible, alternative antimicrobial therapy should be instituted [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) and the clarithromycin package insert, Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 1.6 Treatment of Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome in Adults Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets is indicated for the long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome. 1.7 Short-term Treatment of Symptomatic GERD in Adolescent Patients 12 Years of Age and Older Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets is indicated for the treatment of symptomatic GERD in adolescents 12 years of age and above for up to 8 weeks. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) indicated in adults for: Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) ( 1.1 ). 1.1 Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD in Adults ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets are indicated for short-term (4 to 8 weeks) treatment in the healing and symptomatic relief of erosive or ulcerative gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). For those patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of ACIPHEX may be considered. 1.2 Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD in Adults ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets are indicated for maintaining healing and reduction in relapse rates of heartburn symptoms in patients with erosive or ulcerative gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD Maintenance). 1.3 Treatment of Symptomatic GERD in Adults ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of daytime and nighttime heartburn and other symptoms associated with GERD in adults for up to 4 weeks. 1.4 Healing of Duodenal Ulcers in Adults ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets are indicated for short-term (up to four weeks) treatment in the healing and symptomatic relief of duodenal ulcers. 1.5 Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence in Adults ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets, in combination with amoxicillin and clarithromycin as a three drug regimen, are indicated for the treatment of patients with H. 1.6 Treatment of Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome in Adults ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets are indicated for the long-term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. 1.7 Treatment of Symptomatic GERD in Adolescent Patients 12 Years of Age and Older ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of symptomatic GERD in adolescents 12 years of age and above for up to 8 weeks.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Recommended Dosage ( 2 ) Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) 20 mg once daily for 4 to 8 weeks Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD* studied for 12 months 20 mg once daily* Symptomatic GERD in Adults 20 mg once daily for 4 weeks Healing of Duodenal Ulcers 20 mg once daily after morning meal for up to 4 weeks Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Three Drug Regimen: Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets 20 mg Amoxicillin 1,000 mg Clarithromycin 500 mg All three medications should be taken twice daily with morning and evening meals for 7 days. Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Starting dose 60 mg once daily then adjust to patient needs Symptomatic GERD in Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older 20 mg once daily for up to 8 weeks Administration Instructions ( 2 ) : Swallow rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets whole. Do not chew, crush or split the tablets. For the treatment of duodenal ulcers take rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets after a meal. For Helicobacter pylori eradication take rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets with food. For all other indications rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets can be taken with or without food. Table 1 shows the recommended dosage of rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets in adults and adolescent patients 12 years of age and older. The use of rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets is not recommended for use in pediatric patients 1 year to less than 12 years of age because the lowest available tablet strength (20 mg) exceeds the recommended dose for these patients. Use another rabeprazole formulation for pediatric patients 1 year to less than 12 years of age. Table 1: Recommended Dosage and Duration of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets in Adults and Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older * For those patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets may be considered. ** If symptoms do not resolve completely after 4 weeks, an additional course of treatment may be considered. *** Most patients heal within 4 weeks; some patients may require additional therapy to achieve healing. Indication Dosage of Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets Treatment Duration Adults Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) 20 mg once daily 4 to 8 weeks* Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD 20 mg once daily Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months Symptomatic GERD in Adults 20 mg once daily Up to 4 weeks** Healing of Duodenal Ulcers 20 mg once daily after the morning meal Up to 4 weeks*** Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets 20 mg Amoxicillin 1000 mg Clarithromycin 500 mg Take all three medications twice daily with morning and evening meals; it is important that patients comply with the full 7-day regimen [see Clinical Studies ( 14.5 )] 7 days Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Starting dose 60 mg once daily then adjust to patient needs; some patients require divided doses Dosages of 100 mg once daily and 60 mg twice daily have been administered As long as clinically indicated Some patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome have been treated continuously for up to one year Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older Symptomatic GERD 20 mg once daily Up to 8 weeks Administration Instructions Swallow rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets whole. Do not chew, crush, or split tablets. Take a missed dose as soon as possible. If it is almost time for the next dose, skip the missed dose and go back to the normal schedule. Do not take two doses at the same time. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Table 1 shows the recommended dosage of Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets in adults and adolescent patients 12 years of age and older. Table 1: Recommended Dosage and Duration of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets in Adults and Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older *For those patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets may be considered. **If symptoms do not resolve completely after 4 weeks, an additional course of treatment may be considered. ***Most patients heal within 4 weeks; some patients may require additional therapy to achieve healing. Indication Dosage of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets Treatment Duration Adults Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) 20 mg once daily 4 to 8 weeks* Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD 20 mg once daily Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months Symptomatic GERD in Adults 20 mg once daily Up to 4 weeks** Healing of Duodenal Ulcers 20 mg once daily after the morning meal Up to 4 weeks*** Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets 20 mg Amoxicillin 1000 mg Clarithromycin 500 mg Take all three medications twice daily with morning and evening meals; it is important that patients comply with the full 7- day regimen [See Clinical Studies (14.5) ] 7 days Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Starting dose 60 mg once daily then adjust to patient needs; some patients require divided doses Dosages of 100 mg once daily and 60 mg twice daily have been administered As long as clinically indicated Some patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome have been treated continuously for up to one year Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older Symptomatic GERD 20 mg once daily Up to 8 weeks Administration Instructions Swallow Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets whole. Indications Recommended Dosage (2) Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) 20 mg once daily for 4 to 8 weeks Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD*studied for 12 months 20 mg once daily* Symptomatic GERD in Adults 20 mg once daily for 4 weeks Healing of Duodenal Ulcers 20 mg once daily after morning meal for up to 4 weeks Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Three Drug Regimen: Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release Tablets 20 mg Amoxicillin 1000 mg Clarithromycin 500 mg All three medications should be taken twice daily with morning and evening meals for 7 days Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Starting dose 60 mg once daily then adjust to patient needs Symptomatic GERD in Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older 20 mg once daily for up to 8 weeks Administration Instructions ( 2 ): Swallow Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets whole. Indication Dosage of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets Treatment Duration Adults Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) 20 mg once daily 4 to 8 weeks* Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD 20 mg once daily Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months Symptomatic GERD in Adults 20 mg once daily Up to 4 weeks** Healing of Duodenal Ulcers 20 mg once daily after the morning meal Up to 4 weeks*** Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets 20 mg Amoxicillin 1000 mg Clarithromycin 500 mg Take all three medications twice daily with morning and evening meals; it is important that patients comply with the full 7- day regimen [See Clinical Studies (14.5) ] 7 days Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Starting dose 60 mg once daily then adjust to patient needs; some patients require divided doses Dosages of 100 mg once daily and 60 mg twice daily have been administered As long as clinically indicated Some patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome have been treated continuously for up to one year Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older Symptomatic GERD 20 mg once daily Up to 8 weeks Administration Instructions • Swallow Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets whole. • For the treatment of duodenal ulcers take Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets after a meal. • For Helicobacter pylori eradication take Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets with food. • For all other indications Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets can be taken with or without food. • Take a missed dose as soon as possible. Indications Recommended Dosage (2) Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) 20 mg once daily for 4 to 8 weeks Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD*studied for 12 months 20 mg once daily* Symptomatic GERD in Adults 20 mg once daily for 4 weeks Healing of Duodenal Ulcers 20 mg once daily after morning meal for up to 4 weeks Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Three Drug Regimen: Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release Tablets 20 mg Amoxicillin 1000 mg Clarithromycin 500 mg All three medications should be taken twice daily with morning and evening meals for 7 days Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Starting dose 60 mg once daily then adjust to patient needs Symptomatic GERD in Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older 20 mg once daily for up to 8 weeks Administration Instructions ( 2 ): • Swallow Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets whole. Indication Dosage of Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets Treatment Duration Adults Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) 20 mg once daily 4 to 8 weeks* Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD 20 mg once daily Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months Symptomatic GERD in Adults 20 mg once daily Up to 4 weeks** Healing of Duodenal Ulcers 20 mg once daily after the morning meal Up to 4 weeks*** Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets 20 mg Amoxicillin 1000 mg Clarithromycin 500 mg Take all three medications twice daily with morning and evening meals; it is important that patients comply with the full 7-day regimen [see Clinical Studies (14.5) ] 7 days Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Starting dose 60 mg once daily then adjust to patient needs; some patients require divided doses Dosages of 100 mg once daily and 60 mg twice daily have been administered As long as clinically indicated Some patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome have been treated continuously for up to one year Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older Symptomatic GERD 20 mg once daily Up to 8 weeks Administration Instructions Swallow rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets whole. Indication Recommended Dosage ( 2 ) Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) 20 mg once daily for 4 to 8 weeks Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD* studied for 12 months 20 mg once daily* Symptomatic GERD in Adults 20 mg once daily for 4 weeks Healing of Duodenal Ulcers 20 mg once daily after morning meal for up to 4 weeks Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Three Drug Regimen: Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets 20 mg Amoxicillin 1000 mg Clarithromycin 500 mg All three medications should be taken twice daily with morning and evening meals for 7 days Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Starting dose 60 mg once daily then adjust to patient needs Symptomatic GERD in Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older 20 mg once daily for up to 8 weeks Administration Instructions ( 2 ): Swallow rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets whole. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets should be swallowed whole. The tablets should not be chewed, crushed, or split ( 2.10 ). Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) ( 2.1 ) 20 mg once daily Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD ( 2.2 ) 20 mg once daily Treatment of Symptomatic GERD in Adults ( 2.3 ) 20 mg once daily Healing of Duodenal Ulcers ( 2.4 ) 20 mg once daily after morning meal Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence ( 2.5 ) Three Drug Regimen: Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets 20 mg Amoxicillin 1000 mg Clarithromycin 500 mg All three medications should be taken twice daily with morning and evening meals for 7 days Treatment of Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome ( 2.6 ) Starting dose 60 mg once daily then adjust to patient needs Treatment of Symptomatic GERD in Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older ( 2.7 ) 20 mg once daily 2.1 Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD in Adults The recommended adult oral dose is one Rabeprazole Sodium 20 mg Delayed-Release Tablet to be taken once daily for four to eight weeks [ see Indications and Usage (1.1) ]. For those patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets may be considered. 2.2 Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD in Adults The recommended adult oral dose is one Rabeprazole Sodium 20 mg Delayed-Release Tablet to be taken once daily [ see Indications and Usage (1.2) ]. 2.3 Treatment of Symptomatic GERD in Adults The recommended adult oral dose is one Rabeprazole Sodium 20 mg Delayed-Release Tablet to be taken once daily for 4 weeks [ see Indications and Usage (1.3) ]. If symptoms do not resolve completely after 4 weeks, an additional course of treatment may be considered. The recommended adolescent dosing is one Rabeprazole Sodium 20 mg Delayed-Release Tablet to be taken once daily for 8 weeks. 2.4 Healing of Duodenal Ulcers in Adults The recommended adult oral dose is one Rabeprazole Sodium 20 mg Delayed-Release Tablet to be taken once daily after the morning meal for a period up to four weeks [ see Indications and Usage (1.4) ]. Most patients with duodenal ulcer heal within four weeks. A few patients may require additional therapy to achieve healing. 2.5 Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence in Adults TABLE 1 THREE DRUG REGIMEN It is important that patients comply with the full 7-day regimen [ see Clinical Studies (14.5) ]. All three medications should be taken twice daily with the morning and evening meals. Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablet 20 mg Twice Daily for 7 Days Amoxicillin 1000 mg Twice Daily for 7 Days Clarithromycin 500 mg Twice Daily for 7 Days 2.6 Treatment of Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome in Adults The dosage of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets in patients with pathologic hypersecretory conditions varies with the individual patient. The recommended adult oral starting dose is 60 mg once a day. Doses should be adjusted to individual patient needs and should continue for as long as clinically indicated. Some patients may require divided doses. Doses up to 100 mg QD and 60 mg BID have been administered. Some patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome have been treated continuously with Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets for up to one year. 2.7 Short-term Treatment of Symptomatic GERD in Adolescent Patients 12 Years of Age and Older The recommended oral dose for adolescents 12 years of age and older is one 20 mg Delayed-Release Tablet once daily for up to 8 weeks [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Clinical Studies (14.7) ]. 2.9 Elderly, Renal and Hepatic Impaired Patients No dosage adjustment is necessary in elderly patients, in patients with renal disease or in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. Administration of rabeprazole to patients with mild to moderate liver impairment resulted in increased exposure and decreased elimination. Due to the lack of clinical data on rabeprazole in patients with severe hepatic impairment, caution should be exercised in those patients. 2.10 Administration Recommendations TABLE 2 Administration Recommendations Formulation Population Instructions Delayed-Release Tablet Adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older Swallow tablets whole. Do not chew, crush or split tablets. Tablets can be taken with or without food. Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Starting dose 60 mg once daily then adjust to patient needs Symptomatic GERD in Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older 20 mg once daily for up to 8 weeks Administration Instructions ( 2 ) : • Swallow rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets whole. Indication Dosage of Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets Treatment Duration Adults Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) 20 mg once daily 4 to 8 weeks* Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD 20 mg once daily Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months Symptomatic GERD in Adults 20 mg once daily Up to 4 weeks** Healing of Duodenal Ulcers 20 mg once daily after the morning meal Up to 4 weeks*** Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets 20 mg Amoxicillin 1000 mg Clarithromycin 500 mg Take all three medications twice daily with morning and evening meals; it is important that patients comply with the full 7-day regimen [see Clinical Studies ( 14.5 )] 7 days Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Starting dose 60 mg once daily then adjust to patient needs; some patients require divided doses Dosages of 100 mg once daily and 60 mg twice daily have been administered As long as clinically indicated Some patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome have been treated continuously for up to one year Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older Symptomatic GERD 20 mg once daily Up to 8 weeks Administration Instructions • Swallow rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets whole. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Table 1 shows the recommended dosage of ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets in adults and adolescent patients 12 years of age and older. The use of ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets is not recommended for use in pediatric patients 1 year to less than 12 years of age because the lowest available tablet strength (20 mg) exceeds the recommended dose for these patients. Table 1: Recommended Dosage and Duration of ACIPHEX Delayed-Release Tablets in Adults and Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older Indication Dosage of ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets Treatment Duration Adults Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) 20 mg once daily 4 to 8 weeks For those patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of ACIPHEX may be considered. Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD 20 mg once daily Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months Symptomatic GERD in Adults 20 mg once daily Up to 4 weeks If symptoms do not resolve completely after 4 weeks, an additional course of treatment may be considered. Healing of Duodenal Ulcers 20 mg once daily after the morning meal Up to 4 weeks Most patients heal within 4 weeks; some patients may require additional therapy to achieve healing. Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence ACIPHEX 20 mg Amoxicillin 1000 mg Clarithromycin 500 mg Take all three medications twice daily with morning and evening meals; it is important that patients comply with the full 7-day regimen [see Clinical Studies (14.5) ] 7 days Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Starting dose 60 mg once daily then adjust to patient needs; some patients require divided doses Dosages of 100 mg once daily and 60 mg twice daily have been administered As long as clinically indicated Some patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome have been treated continuously for up to one year Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older Symptomatic GERD 20 mg once daily Up to 8 weeks Administration Instructions Swallow ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets whole. For the treatment of duodenal ulcers take ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets after a meal. For Helicobacter pylori eradication take ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets with food. For all other indications ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets can be taken with or without food. Indication Recommended Dosage ( 2 ) Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) 20 mg once daily for 4 to 8 weeks Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD* studied for 12 months 20 mg once daily* Symptomatic GERD in Adults 20 mg once daily for 4 weeks Healing of Duodenal Ulcers 20 mg once daily after morning meal for up to 4 weeks Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Three Drug Regimen: ACIPHEX 20 mg Amoxicillin 1000 mg Clarithromycin 500 mg All three medications should be taken twice daily with morning and evening meals for 7 days Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Starting dose 60 mg once daily then adjust to patient needs Symptomatic GERD in Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older 20 mg once daily for up to 8 weeks Administration Instructions ( 2 ) : Swallow ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets whole. Indications Recommended Dosage ( 2 ) Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) 20 mg once daily for 4 to 8 weeks Maintenance of Healing of Erosive or Ulcerative GERD*studied for 12 months 20 mg once daily* Symptomatic GERD in Adults 20 mg once daily for 4 weeks Healing of Duodenal Ulcers 20 mg once daily after morning meal for up to 4 weeks Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Three Drug Regimen: Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release Tablets 20 mg Amoxicillin 1000 mg Clarithromycin 500 mg All three medications should be taken twice daily with morning and evening meals for 7 days Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions, Including Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Starting dose 60 mg once daily then adjust to patient needs Symptomatic GERD in Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older 20 mg once daily for up to 8 weeks Administration Instructions ( 2 ): Swallow Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets whole.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients with a history of hypersensitivity to rabeprazole ( 4 ). PPIs, including rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products ( 4 , 7 ). Refer to the Contraindications section of the prescribing information for clarithromycin and amoxicillin, when administered in combination with rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets ( 4 ). Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to rabeprazole, substituted benzimidazoles, or to any component of the formulation. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6 )] . PPIs, including rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets, are contraindicated with rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. For information about contraindications of antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated in combination with rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets, refer to the Contraindications section of their package inserts. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to rabeprazole, substituted benzimidazoles, or to any component of the formulation. Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Adverse Reactions (6) ] . PPIs, including Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets, are contraindicated with rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . Patients with a history of hypersensitivity to rabeprazole ( 4 ). PPIs, including Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products (4,7). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to rabeprazole, substituted benzimidazoles, or to any component of the formulation. • PPIs, including Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets, are contraindicated with rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . • For information about contraindications of antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated in combination with Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets, refer to the Contraindications section of their package inserts. • Patients with a history of hypersensitivity to rabeprazole ( 4 ). • PPIs, including Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products (4,7). • Refer to the Contraindications section of the prescribing information for clarithromycin and amoxicillin, when administered in combination with Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets ( 4 ). Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, acute interstitial nephritis, and urticaria [see Adverse Reactions (6) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Rabeprazole is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to rabeprazole, substituted benzimidazoles or to any component of the formulation. • History of hypersensitivity to rabeprazole ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Patients with a history of hypersensitivity to rabeprazole ( 4 ). • PPIs, including rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products ( 4 , 7 ). • Rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to rabeprazole, substituted benzimidazoles, or to any component of the formulation. • PPIs, including rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets, are contraindicated with rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ACIPHEX is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to rabeprazole, substituted benzimidazoles, or to any component of the formulation. PPIs, including ACIPHEX, are contraindicated with rilpivirine-containing products [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . For information about contraindications of antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated in combination with ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets, refer to the Contraindications section of their package inserts. PPIs, including ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets, are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine-containing products ( 4 , 7 ). Refer to the Contraindications section of the prescribing information for clarithromycin and amoxicillin, when administered in combination with ACIPHEX ( 4 ).
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions ( 7 ). Table 2 includes drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets and instructions for preventing or managing them. Consult the labeling of concomitantly used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with PPIs. Table 2: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Co-Administered with Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets and Interactions with Diagnostics Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact: The effect of PPI on antiretroviral drugs is variable. The clinical importance and the mechanisms behind these interactions are not always known. • Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine, atazanavir, and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with rabeprazole may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance. • Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with rabeprazole may increase toxicity . • There are other antiretroviral drugs which do not result in clinically relevant interactions with rabeprazole. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products : Concomitant use with rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . See prescribing information. Atazanavir : See prescribing information for atazanavir for dosing information. Nelfinavir : Avoid concomitant use with rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets. See prescribing information for nelfinavir. Saquinavir : See the prescribing information for saquinavir and monitor for potential saquinavir toxicities. Other antiretrovirals : See prescribing information. Warfarin Clinical Impact: Increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving PPIs, including rabeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Intervention: Monitor INR and prothrombin time. Dose adjustment of warfarin may be needed to maintain target INR range. See prescribing information for warfarin. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of rabeprazole with methotrexate (primarily at high dose) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. No formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )]. Intervention: A temporary withdrawal of rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets may be considered in some patients receiving high dose methotrexate administration. Digoxin Clinical Impact: Potential for increased exposure of digoxin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Intervention: Monitor digoxin concentrations. Dose adjustment of digoxin may be needed to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations. See prescribing information for digoxin. Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption (e.g., iron salts, erlotinib, dasatinib, nilotinib, mycophenolate mofetil, ketoconazole, itraconazole) Clinical Impact: Rabeprazole can reduce the absorption of other drugs due to its effect on reducing intragastric acidity. Intervention: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Co-administration of PPIs in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH. The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets and MMF. Use rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF. See the prescribing information for other drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption. Combination Therapy with Clarithromycin and Amoxicillin Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions, including potentially fatal arrhythmias, and are contraindicated. Amoxicillin also has drug interactions. Intervention: See Contraindications and Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin. See Drug Interactions in prescribing information for amoxicillin. Tacrolimus Clinical Impact: Potentially increased exposure of tacrolimus, especially in transplant patients who are intermediate or poor metabolizers of CYP2C19. Intervention: Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations. Dose adjustment of tacrolimus may be needed to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations. See prescribing information for tacrolimus. Interactions with Investigations of Neuroendocrine Tumors Clinical Impact: Serum chromogranin A (CgA) levels increase secondary to PPI-induced decreases in gastric acidity. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors. Intervention: Temporarily stop rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. If serial tests are performed (e.g. for monitoring), the same commercial laboratory should be used for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary. Interaction with Secretin Stimulation Test Clinical Impact: Hyper-response in gastrin secretion in response to secretin stimulation test, falsely suggesting gastrinoma. Intervention: Temporarily stop treatment with rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets at least 14 days before assessing to allow gastrin levels to return to baseline. False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact: There have been reports of false positive urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving PPIs. Intervention: An alternative confirmatory method should be considered to verify positive results. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 2 includes drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets and instructions for preventing or managing them. Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine, atazanavir, and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with rabeprazole may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance. Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with rabeprazole may increase toxicity. There are other antiretroviral drugs which do not result in clinically relevant interactions with rabeprazole. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . Atazanavir: See prescribing information for atazanavir for dosing information. Nelfinavir: Avoid concomitant use with Rabeprazole Sodium delayed-release tablets. Saquinavir: See the prescribing information for saquinavir and monitor for potential saquinavir toxicities. Other antiretrovirals: See prescribing information. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . No formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] . Digoxin Clinical Impact: Potential for increased exposure of digoxin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . See full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions ( 7 ). • Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with rabeprazole may increase toxicity. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products : Concomitant use with rabeprazole sodium delayed-release tablets is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)] . Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . No formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] . Digoxin Clinical Impact: Potential for increased exposure of digoxin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Tacrolimus Clinical Impact: Potentially increased exposure of tacrolimus, especially in transplant patients who are intermediate or poor metabolizers of CYP2C19 . The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Increased INR and prothrombin times have been reported with concomitant use with warfarin. Patients need to be monitored ( 7.2 ) • Rabeprazole has been shown to inhibit cyclosporine metabolism in vitro ( 7.3 ) • Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets inhibits gastric acid secretion and may interfere with the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of bioavailability (e.g., ketoconazole, iron salts and digoxin) ( 7.4 ) • Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets may reduce the plasma levels of atazanavir ( 7.4 ) • Methotrexate: Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets may increase serum level of methotrexate ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Drugs Metabolized by CYP450 Rabeprazole is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 (CYP450) drug metabolizing enzyme system. Studies in healthy subjects have shown that rabeprazole does not have clinically significant interactions with other drugs metabolized by the CYP450 system, such as warfarin and theophylline given as single oral doses, diazepam as a single intravenous dose, and phenytoin given as a single intravenous dose (with supplemental oral dosing). Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and other drugs metabolized by this enzyme system have not been studied in patients. 7.2 Warfarin There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving proton pump inhibitors, including rabeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 7.3 Cyclosporine In vitro incubations employing human liver microsomes indicated that rabeprazole inhibited cyclosporine metabolism with an IC 50 of 62 micromolar, a concentration that is over 50 times higher than the C max in healthy volunteers following 14 days of dosing with 20 mg of rabeprazole. This degree of inhibition is similar to that by omeprazole at equivalent concentrations. 7.4 Compounds Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption Rabeprazole produces sustained inhibition of gastric acid secretion. An interaction with compounds which are dependent on gastric pH for absorption may occur due to the magnitude of acid suppression observed with rabeprazole. For example, in normal subjects, co-administration of rabeprazole 20 mg QD resulted in an approximately 30% decrease in the bioavailability of ketoconazole and increases in the AUC and C max for digoxin of 19% and 29%, respectively. Therefore, patients may need to be monitored when such drugs are taken concomitantly with rabeprazole. Co-administration of rabeprazole and antacids produced no clinically relevant changes in plasma rabeprazole concentrations. Concomitant use of atazanavir and proton pump inhibitors is not recommended. Co-administration of atazanavir with proton pump inhibitors is expected to substantially decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations and thereby reduce its therapeutic effect. 7.5 Drugs Metabolized by CYP2C19 In a clinical study in Japan evaluating rabeprazole in adult patients categorized by CYP2C19 genotype (n=6 per genotype category), gastric acid suppression was higher in poor metabolizers as compared to extensive metabolizers. This could be due to higher rabeprazole plasma levels in poor metabolizers. Whether or not interactions of rabeprazole sodium with other drugs metabolized by CYP2C19 would be different between extensive metabolizers and poor metabolizers has not been studied. 7.6 Combined Administration with Clarithromycin Combined administration consisting of rabeprazole, amoxicillin, and clarithromycin resulted in increases in plasma concentrations of rabeprazole and 14-hydroxyclarithromycin [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions due to drug interactions [ see Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin ]. Because of these drug interactions, clarithromycin is contraindicated for co-administration with certain drugs [ see Contraindications in prescribing information for clarithromycin ] [ see Drug Interactions in prescribing information for amoxicillin ]. 7.7 Methotrexate Case reports, published population pharmacokinetic studies, and retrospective analyses suggest that concomitant administration of PPIs and methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information ) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate. However, no formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. 7.8 Clopidogrel Concomitant administration of rabeprazole and clopidogrel in healthy subjects had no clinically meaningful effect on exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. No dose adjustment of clopidogrel is necessary when administered with an approved dose of Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed-Release Tablets. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 2 includes drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets and instructions for preventing or managing them. Table 2: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Co-Administered with ACIPHEX Delayed-Release Tablets and Interactions with Diagnostics Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact: The effect of PPI on antiretroviral drugs is variable. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products : Concomitant use with ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] . Nelfinavir : Avoid concomitant use with ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets. No formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ]. Intervention: A temporary withdrawal of ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets may be considered in some patients receiving high dose methotrexate administration. Digoxin Clinical Impact: Potential for increased exposure of digoxin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets and MMF. Use ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF. Intervention: Temporarily stop ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. Intervention: Temporarily stop treatment with ACIPHEX delayed-release tablets at least 14 days before assessing to allow gastrin levels to return to baseline.

=== CEFADROXIL ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: Cefadroxil is indicated for the treatment of patients with infection caused by susceptible strains of the designated organisms in the following diseases: Urinary tract infections caused by E. coli, P. mirabilis, and Klebsiella species. Skin and skin structure infections caused by staphylococci and/or streptococci. Pharyngitis and/or tonsillitis caused by Streptococcus pyogenes (Group A beta-hemolytic streptococci). Note: Only penicillin by the intramuscular route of administration has been shown to be effective in the prophylaxis of rheumatic fever. Cefadroxil is generally effective in the eradication of streptococci from the oropharynx. However, data establishing the efficacy of cefadroxil for the prophylaxis of subsequent rheumatic fever are not available. Note: Culture and susceptibility tests should be initiated prior to and during therapy. Renal function studies should be performed when indicated. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cefadroxil and other antibacterial drugs, cefadroxil should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cefadroxil is indicated for the treatment of patients with infection caused by susceptible strains of the designated organisms in the following diseases: Urinary tract infections caused by E. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cefadroxil Capsules USP are indicated for the treatment of patients with infection caused by susceptible strains of the designated organisms in the following diseases: Urinary tract infections caused by E. coli , P. mirabilis , and Klebsiella species. Cefadroxil monohydrate is generally effective in the eradication of streptococci from the oropharynx. However, data establishing the efficacy of cefadroxil monohydrate for the prophylaxis of subsequent rheumatic fever are not available. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cefadroxil capsules and other antibacterial drugs, cefadroxil capsules should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cefadroxil for oral suspension USP is indicated for the treatment of patients with infection caused by susceptible strains of the designated organisms in the following diseases: Urinary tract infections caused by E. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cefadroxil for oral suspension and other antibacterial drugs, cefadroxil for oral suspension should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria.
Dosage: Cefadroxil is acid-stable and may be administered orally without regard to meals. Administration with food may be helpful in diminishing potential gastrointestinal complaints occasionally associated with oral cephalosporin therapy. Adults Urinary Tract Infections: For uncomplicated lower urinary tract infections (i.e., cystitis) the usual dosage is 1 or 2 g per day in a single (q.d.) or divided doses (b.i.d.). For all other urinary tract infections the usual dosage is 2 g per day in divided doses (b.i.d.). Skin and Skin Structure Infections: For skin and skin structure infections the usual dosage is 1 g per day in single (q.d.) or divided doses (b.i.d.). Pharyngitis and Tonsillitis: Treatment of group A beta-hemolytic streptococcal pharyngitis and tonsillitis—1 g per day in single (q.d.) or divided doses (b.i.d.) for 10 days. Children For urinary tract infections, the recommended daily dosage for children is 30 mg/kg/day in divided doses every 12 hours. For pharyngitis, tonsillitis, and impetigo, the recommended daily dosage for children is 30 mg/kg/day in a single dose or in equally divided doses every 12 hours. For other skin and skin structure infections, the recommended daily dosage is 30 mg/kg/day in equally divided doses every 12 hours. In the treatment of beta-hemolytic streptococcal infections, a therapeutic dosage of cefadroxil should be administered for at least 10 days. Renal Impairment In patients with renal impairment, the dosage of cefadroxil should be adjusted according to creatinine clearance rates to prevent drug accumulation. The following schedule is suggested. In adults, the initial dose is 1000 mg of cefadroxil and the maintenance dose (based on the creatinine clearance rate [mL/min/1.73 m2]) is 500 mg at the time intervals listed below. Creatinine Clearances Dosage Interval 0 to 10 mL/min 36 hours 10 to 25 mL/min 24 hours 25 to 50 mL/min 12 hours Patients with creatinine clearance rates over 50 mL/min may be treated as if they were patients having normal renal function. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Cefadroxil is acid-stable and may be administered orally without regard to meals. In adults, the initial dose is 1000 mg of cefadroxil and the maintenance dose (based on the creatinine clearance rate [mL/min/1.73 m 2 ]) is 500 mg at the time intervals listed below. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Cefadroxil capsules are acid-stable and may be administered orally without regard to meals. Adults Urinary Tract Infections : For uncomplicated lower urinary tract infections (i.e., cystitis) the usual dosage is 1 or 2 g per day in a single (q.d.) or divided doses (b.i.d.). Skin and Skin Structure Infections : For skin and skin structure infections the usual dosage is 1 g per day in single (q.d.) or divided doses (b.i.d.). Pharyngitis and Tonsillitis : Treatment of group A beta-hemolytic streptococcal pharyngitis and tonsillitis— 1 g per day in single (q.d.) or divided doses (b.i.d.) for 10 days. In the treatment of beta-hemolytic streptococcal infections, a therapeutic dosage of cefadroxil monohydrate should be administered for at least 10 days. Renal Impairment In patients with renal impairment, the dosage of cefadroxil monohydrate should be adjusted according to creatinine clearance rates to prevent drug accumulation. In adults, the initial dose is 1000 mg of cefadroxil monohydrate and the maintenance dose (based on the creatinine clearance rate [mL/min/1.73 M ]) is 500 mg at the time intervals listed below. Creatinine Clearance Dosage Interval 0-10 mL/min 36 hours 10-25 mL/min 24 hours 25-50 mL/min 12 hours Patients with creatinine clearance rates over 50 mL/min may be treated as if they were patients having normal renal function. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Cefadroxil for oral suspension is acid-stable and may be administered orally without regard to meals. Adults Urinary Tract Infections For uncomplicated lower urinary tract infections (i.e., cystitis) the usual dosage is 1 or 2 g per day in a single (q.d.) or divided doses (b.i.d.). Skin and Skin Structure Infections For skin and skin structure infections the usual dosage is 1 g per day in single (q.d.) or divided doses (b.i.d.). Pharyngitis and Tonsillitis Treatment of group A beta-hemolytic streptococcal pharyngitis and tonsillitis— 1 g per day in single (q.d.) or divided doses (b.i.d.) for 10 days. In the treatment of beta-hemolytic streptococcal infections, a therapeutic dosage of cefadroxil for oral suspension should be administered for at least 10 days. See chart for total daily dosage for children. DAILY DOSAGE OF CEFADROXIL FOR ORAL SUSPENSION Child's Weight 250 mg/5 mL 500 mg/5 mL lbs kg 10 4.5 ½ tsp - 20 9.1 1 tsp - 30 13.6 1½ tsp - 40 18.2 2 tsp 1 tsp 50 22.7 2½ tsp 1¼ tsp 60 27.3 3 tsp 1½ tsp 70 & above 31.8 + -- 2 tsp Renal Impairment In patients with renal impairment, the dosage of cefadroxil monohydrate should be adjusted according to creatinine clearance rates to prevent drug accumulation. In adults, the initial dose is 1000 mg of cefadroxil monohydrate and the maintenance dose (based on the creatinine clearance rate [mL/min/1.73 m 2 ]) is 500 mg at the time intervals listed below. Reconstitution Directions for Oral Suspension Bottle Size Reconstitution Directions 100 mL Suspend in a total of 67 mL water. Method: Tap bottle lightly to loosen powder. Add 67 mL of water in two portions. Shake well after each addition. 75 mL Suspend in a total of 51 mL water. Add 51 mL of water in two portions. 50 mL Suspend in a total of 34 mL water. Add 34 mL of water in two portions. Shake well after each addition After reconstitution, store in refrigerator. Shake well before using. Keep container tightly closed. Discard unused portion after 14 days. Pharyngitis and Tonsillitis: Treatment of group A beta-hemolytic streptococcal pharyngitis and tonsillitis—1g per day in single (q.d.) or divided doses (b.i.d.) for 10 days. DAILY DOSAGE OF CEFADROXIL SUSPENSION Child's Weight 250 mg/5 mL 500 mg/5 mL Ibs kg 10 4.5 ½ tsp 20 9.1 1 tsp 30 13.6 1½ tsp 40 18.2 2 tsp 1 tsp 50 22.7 2½ tsp 1¼ tsp 60 27.3 3 tsp 1½ tsp 70 & above 31.8+ — 2 tsp Renal Impairment In patients with renal impairment, the dosage of cefadroxil monohydrate should be adjusted according to creatinine clearance rates to prevent drug accumulation. Creatinine Clearances Dosage Interval 0 to10 mL/min 36 hours 10 to 25 mL/min 24 hours 25 to 50 mL/min 12 hours Patients with creatinine clearance rates over 50 mL/min may be treated as if they were patients having normal renal function. Reconstitution Directions for Oral Suspension Bottle Size Reconstitution Directions 100 mL Suspend in a total of 60 mL water. Add 60 mL of water in two portions. 75 mL Suspend in a total of 45 mL water Method: Tap bottle lightly to loosen powder. Add 45 mL of water in two portions. After reconstitution, store in refrigerator.
Warnings: BEFORE THERAPY WITH CEFADROXIL IS INSTITUTED, CAREFUL INQUIRY SHOULD BE MADE TO DETERMINE WHETHER THE PATIENT HAS HAD PREVIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO CEFADROXIL, CEPHALOSPORINS, PENICILLINS, OR OTHER DRUGS. IF THIS PRODUCT IS TO BE GIVEN TO PENICILLIN-SENSITIVE PATIENTS, CAUTION SHOULD BE EXERCISED BECAUSE CROSS-SENSITIVITY AMONG BETA-LACTAM ANTIBIOTICS HAS BEEN CLEARLY DOCUMENTED AND MAY OCCUR IN UP TO 10% OF PATIENTS WITH A HISTORY OF PENICILLIN ALLERGY. IF AN ALLERGIC REACTION TO CEFADROXIL OCCURS, DISCONTINUE THE DRUG. SERIOUS ACUTE HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS MAY REQUIRE TREATMENT WITH EPINEPHRINE AND OTHER EMERGENCY MEASURES, INCLUDING OXYGEN, INTRAVENOUS FLUIDS, INTRAVENOUS ANTIHISTAMINES, CORTICOSTEROIDS, PRESSOR AMINES, AND AIRWAY MANAGEMENT, AS CLINICALLY INDICATED. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including cefadroxil, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C. difficile. C. difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD. Hypertoxin producing strains of C. difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality, as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use. Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents. If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C. difficile may need to be discontinued. Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibiotic treatment of C. difficile, and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. WARNINGS BEFORE THERAPY WITH CEFADROXIL IS INSTITUTED, CAREFUL INQUIRY SHOULD BE MADE TO DETERMINE WHETHER THE PATIENT HAS HAD PREVIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO CEFADROXIL, CEPHALOSPORINS, PENICILLINS, OR OTHER DRUGS. difficile . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. WARNINGS BEFORE THERAPY WITH CEFADROXIL MONOHYDRATE IS INSTITUTED, CAREFUL INQUIRY SHOULD BE MADE TO DETERMINE WHETHER THE PATIENT HAS HAD PREVIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO CEFADROXIL, CEPHALOSPORINS, PENICILLINS, OR OTHER DRUGS. IF AN ALLERGIC REACTION TO CEFADROXIL MONOHYDRATE OCCURS, DISCONTINUE THE DRUG. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including cefadroxil monohydrate, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Cefadroxil for oral suspension contains sulfur dioxide, a sulfite that may cause allergic-type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people. The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low. Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people.
Contraindications: Cefadroxil is contraindicated in patients with known allergy to the cephalosporin group of antibiotics. CONTRAINDICATIONS Cefadroxil is contraindicated in patients with known allergy to the cephalosporin group of antibiotics. CONTRAINDICATIONS Cefadroxil monohydrate is contraindicated in patients with known allergy to the cephalosporin group of antibiotics.

=== DEXTROSE MONOHYDRATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ANTICOAGULANT CITRATE DEXTROSE SOLUTION USP (ACD) SOLUTION A is an anticoagulant intended for use only with devices that prepare Platelet Rich Plasma (PRP) products for extracorporeal use. [See Dosage and Administration (2) .] ANTICOAGULANT CITRATE DEXTROSE SOLUTION USP (ACD) SOLUTION A is an anticoagulant intended for use only with devices that prepare Platelet Rich Plasma (PRP) products for extracorporeal use. See the device operator's manual for additional information and complete usage instructions. ( 1 ) 1. INDICATIONS AND USAGE 1.1. Read these instructions carefully before use. 1.2. Rx ONLY. 1.3. Intended for the collection, processing and preservation of Whole Blood and blood components. Not intended for direct intravenous infusion. 1.4. For the collection of 450 mL ±10% or 500 mL ±10% Whole Blood. 1.5. Integral Diversion Blood Sampling Arm is intended to divert and obtain donor samples for laboratory testing prior to collection of the Whole Blood unit. 1.6. For further processing, use standard component processing techniques. INDICATIONS AND USAGE This solution is indicated in patients requiring parenteral administration of potassium chloride with minimal carbohydrate calories. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dextrose Injection is indicated as source of calories and fluid replenishment when mixed with amino acids or other compatible intravenous fluids for patients requiring parenteral nutrition (PN) when oral or enteral nutrition is not possible, insufficient or contraindicated. Dextrose Injection is indicated as a source of calories when mixed with amino acids or other compatible intravenous fluids for patients requiring parenteral nutrition when oral or enteral nutrition is not possible, insufficient or contraindicated. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection is indicated for use as a source of water, electrolytes, and calories or as an alkalinizing agent in adults and pediatric patients. Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection is indicated for use as a source of water, electrolytes, and calories or as an alkalinizing agent in adults and pediatric patients. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dextrose Injection is indicated as source of water and calories and may also be used as diluent for reconstitution of a powdered or liquid (up to 10 mL) drug product packaged in a vial with a 20 mm closure. Dextrose Injection is indicated as a source of calories and water and may also be used as diluent for reconstitution of a powdered or liquid (up to 10 mL) drug product packaged in a vial with a 20 mm closure. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dextrose Injection (5%) is indicated as a source of water and calories in adult and pediatric patients and may also be used as a diluent for reconstitution of a powder or liquid drug product. Dextrose Injection (5%) is indicated as a source of water and calories in adult and pediatric patients and may also be used as a diluent for reconstitution of a powder or liquid drug product.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ANTICOAGULANT CITRATE DEXTROSE SOLUTION USP (ACD) SOLUTION A is added to blood products collected for extracorporeal processing. ( 2 ) ANTICOAGULANT CITRATE DEXTROSE SOLUTION USP (ACD) SOLUTION A may only be used with devices that prepare Platelet Rich Plasma (PRP) products for extracorporeal use. For instructions on the use of the solution see the device operator's manual. ( 2.1 ) Follow the directions for drawing ANTICOAGULANT CITRATE DEXTROSE SOLUTION USP (ACD) SOLUTION A into a syringe for further processing of the collected blood product. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 General Dosing Information ANTICOAGULANT CITRATE DEXTROSE SOLUTION USP (ACD) SOLUTION A is added to blood products collected for extracorporeal processing. The solution is manually added to collected blood products to facilitate extracorporeal processing. The amount of solution added is specified by the manufacturer of the processing set. It is not intended for direct intravenous infusion. For instructions on the use of the solution with the processing set, see the device operator's manual. 2.2 Administration Ensure solution is the ANTICOAGULANT CITRATE DEXTROSE SOLUTION USP (ACD) SOLUTION A and is within the expiration date. Inspect the solution bag. Do not use if the solution bag is damaged, leaking or if there is any visible sign of deterioration. Use only if solution is clear and free of particulate matter. Protect from sharp objects. Directions for drawing the ANTICOAGULANT CITRATE DEXTROSE SOLUTION USP (ACD) SOLUTION A from the solution bag. When directed by the processing set instructions and device operator's manual: Open the foil pouch containing the solution by finding the notch in the foil overwrap and pulling down to present the clear overwrapped solution bag. Open the clear overwrap material by holding the peelable tabs between your thumb and forefinger. Gently pull the peelable tabs along the top to open the overwrap at both corners. Once both corners are opened, gently peel along the length of the overwrap. Do not place the ANTICOAGULANT CITRATE DEXTROSE SOLUTION USP (ACD) SOLUTION A solution bag into the sterile field. The clear overwrap is not considered a sterile barrier. Before use, perform the following checks [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ] : Check for leaks by gently squeezing the bag. If leaks are found, discard the solution bag. Ensure that the solution is the ANTICOAGULANT CITRATE DEXTROSE SOLUTION USP (ACD) SOLUTION A and is within the expiration date. Inspect the solution in adequate light. Solution showing cloudiness, haze, or particulate matter should not be used. Aseptically prepare the Needleless Access Valve (NAV). Using an appropriate syringe and luer, connect to the NAV. Draw into the syringe the amount of ANTICOAGULANT CITRATE DEXTROSE SOLUTION USP (ACD) SOLUTION A required by the processing set instructions and device operator's manual. Remove the syringe from the NAV and proceed according to the processing set instructions and device operator's manual. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and solution bag permit. 2. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2.1. To open blister package, peel cover film back 4/5 of its length. 2.2. Prepare the blood bag following your institution's standard operating procedures. 2.2.1. Materials Needed: VENOJECT II Tube Holder (code P-1316R) or equivalent VENOJECT II Multi-Sample Luer Adapter (code MN*2000T) or equivalent Evacuated blood collection tubes (glass or plastic) 2.3. Make a loose knot in the donor tubing below the "Y" and CLIKTIP (inline closure device) unless alternate methods are used to seal the tubing at the end of collection. 2.4. Temporarily clamp donor tubing between the phlebotomy needle and the "Y". 2.5. Close the White Clamp below the diversion pouch. 2.6. Assemble the luer adapter and the tube holder. 2.6.1. Connect the VENOJECT II Multi-Sample Luer Adapter to the VENOJECT II Tube Holder (or equivalent) (Fig. 1). 2.6.2. Twist and snap to remove the blue port cap at the end of the Diversion Blood Sampling Arm (Fig. 2a). 2.6.3. Insert the Holder/Luer assembly in the female luer port (Fig. 2b). 2.6.4. NOTE: Alternatively, steps 2.6.1., 2.6.2., and 2.6.3. (above) may be performed at any time during bag preparation or after the blood is collected into the diversion pouch. 2.7. Suspend the collection bag as far as possible below the donor's arm. 2.8. Apply blood pressure cuff or tourniquet to donor's arm. Disinfect site of phlebotomy according to institutional standard operating procedures. If blood pressure cuff is used, inflate to approximately 60 mmHg. 2.9. Remove the needle cover and perform phlebotomy. Remove the temporary clamp on the donor tubing to permit blood flow into the Diversion Blood Sampling Arm pouch. 2.9.1. CAUTION: Do not touch the needle after removing the needle cover. 2.9.2. CAUTION: Assure that the White Clamp below the pouch is closed prior to initiating phlebotomy. 2.10. Secure the needle safety device in place following the device instructions provided on the reverse side. 2.11. Secure donor tubing to donor's arm. 2.12. Position the diversion pouch with the notches up and the Tube Holder/Luer Adapter assembly (or port cap) down. When the level of blood in the pouch is approximately in line with the notches, the diversion pouch is full (Fig. 3a). 2.12.1. NOTE: The approximate fill volume of the pouch at the notches is 35 mL. 2.13. Permanently seal the tubing between the "Y" and the diversion pouch to maintain a closed system using an aluminum clip or a tube sealer approved for use with tubing connected to a donor (Fig. 3b). 2.13.1. CAUTION: Do not use a dielectric tube sealer to seal the tubing while the needle is connected to the donor's body unless it is approved for such a purpose. 2.14. To initiate blood flow into the collection bag, break the CLIKTIP between the "Y" and the collection bag. 2.15. To avoid clot formation, collect samples as soon as possible from the diversion pouch as follows (Fig. 2.15.1. CAUTION: Do not collect donor test samples until the tubing between the "Y" and the diversion pouch is permanently sealed. 2.15.2. Open the White Clamp on the tubing below the pouch to open the pathway for sampling. 2.15.3. Position the diversion pouch with the notches up and the Tube Holder/Luer Adapter assembly downward. Assure that any air in the pouch is at the top and will not enter the blood collection tubes. 2.15.4. Insert blood collection tube firmly into the tube holder; when full, remove sample tube from holder. Repeat to collect additional samples. 2.15.5. NOTE: The pouch may be removed after the donor test samples are collected. A second seal must be made between the diversion pouch and the permanent seal prior to removing the pouch. 2.16. Mix blood with anticoagulant in the collection bag and continue to mix at several intervals during collection and immediately after collection. If using an automated mixer, follow manufacturer's instructions. 2.17. Collect labeled volume of blood 450 mL ±10% or 500 mL ±10%. 2.18. When the desired amount of blood has been collected, seal the tubing or tighten the loose knot (white knot) prepared in Step 2.3. Make a second seal between the first seal or knot and the "Y". Various methods may be used to seal tubing. 2.19. Release pressure on the donor's arm and remove the needle into the needle safety device following the device instructions provided on the reverse side. Sever the donor tubing between the two seals previously made below the CLIKTIP and "Y". 2.19.1. CAUTION: Discard the Diversion Blood Sampling Arm and phlebotomy needle/donor tubing according to institutional standard operating procedures. 2.20. Strip blood from donor tubing into collection bag, mix well, and allow tubing to refill; repeat once. To prevent the blood from clotting in the tubing, work quickly as possible. Make an appropriate number of segments of anticoagulated blood for testing by sealing on or near the X marks. Leave segments attached to the Whole Blood unit. 2.21. The time between Whole Blood collection and component separation may vary depending on both the blood bag system and processing options selected. Follow your institution's standard operating procedures to prepare components. 2.21.1. If the Whole Blood is to be processed into room temperature components, maintain the blood at ambient temperature. 2.21.2. If the Whole Blood is to be processed into other components (including Plasma Frozen Within 24 Hours After Phlebotomy), Whole Blood must either be placed in storage at a temperature between 1-6°C within 8 hours of blood collection or cooled towards a temperature between 1-10°C (e.g. during transport) and then placed in storage at a temperature between 1-6°C upon arrival at the processing center. 2.22. Platelet Rich Plasma and Platelets should be separated from the Red Blood Cells within 8 hours of blood collection, if prepared. 2.23. Plasma intended for production of Fresh Frozen Plasma should be separated from the Red Blood Cells and placed in a freezer at –18°C or colder within 8 hours of blood collection. 2.24. Plasma intended for production of Plasma Frozen Within 24 Hours After Phlebotomy (PF24) should be placed in a freezer at -18°C or colder within 24 hours of blood collection. 2.25. For further preparation and processing of other plasma components, use standard processing and storage techniques following approved regulations and standards. 2.26. Select the appropriate spin condition and centrifuge Whole Blood unit to separate CPDA-1 Red Blood Cells from plasma or platelet rich plasma, as appropriate. 2.27. Break the CLIKTIP of primary collection bag and transfer plasma into satellite bag, or transfer platelet rich plasma into XT-612 Platelet bag. Clamp transfer tubing of satellite bag. 2.28. Seal tubing of primary collection bag in two places, cut between seals, and if applicable, separate from satellite bag(s). 2.29. Store CPDA-1 Red Blood Cells (or Whole Blood) between 1 – 6°C for up to 35 days. 2.30. If prepared, store Platelets between 20-24°C, maintaining a continuous gentle agitation, for up to 5 days in XT-612 bag. Fig. 1, Fig. 2a, Fig. 2b Fig. 3a, Fig. 3b DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION This solution should be administered only by intravenous infusion and as directed by the physician. The dose and rate of injection are dependent upon the age, weight and clinical condition of the patient. If the serum potassium level is greater than 2.5 mEq/liter, potassium should be given at a rate not to exceed 10 mEq/hour in a concentration less than 30 mEq/liter. Somewhat faster rates and greater concentrations (usually up to 40 mEq/liter) of potassium may be indicated in patients with more severe potassium deficiency. The total 24-hour dose should not generally exceed 200 mEq of potassium. As reported in the literature, the dosage and constant infusion rate of intravenous dextrose must be selected with caution in pediatric patients, particularly neonates and low birth weight infants, because of the increased risk of hyperglycemia/hypoglycemia. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. See PRECAUTIONS . Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Pharmacy Bulk Package. Not for direct intravenous infusion. ( 2.1 ) • For slow intravenous infusion only into a: ( 2.2 ) o Central vein, if final dextrose concentration is greater than 5% or osmolality is greater than 900 mOsm/L approximately. o Peripheral vein, if final dextrose concentration 5% or less and osmolality is less than 900 mOsm/L approximately. • Individualize dosage based on the patient’s clinical condition, body weight, nutritional/fluid requirements, as well as additional energy given orally/enterally. ( 2.3 ) • Discontinue infusion of concentrated dextrose solutions slowly. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Preparation Instructions Prior to Administration Dextrose Injection is supplied as a pharmacy bulk package for admixing only and is not for direct intravenous infusion. Dextrose Injection is intended for use in the preparation of sterile, intravenous admixtures. Prior to administration, Dextrose Injection must be transferred to a separate PN container , diluted with other compatible intravenous fluids and used as an admixture in PN solutions. • Do not remove from overpouch until ready to use. • Tear protective overwrap at slit and remove solution container. Small amounts of moisture may be found on the solution container from water permeating from inside the container. The amount of permeated water is insufficient to affect the solution significantly. If larger amounts of water are found, the container should be checked for tears or leaks. • Inspect Dextrose Injection prior to use. Opacity of the container may be observed due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process. This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety. The opacity will diminish gradually. Evaluate the following: o If the outlet port protector is damaged, detached, or not present, discard container as solution path sterility may be impaired. o Check for minute leaks by squeezing the inner container firmly. If leaks are found, discard solution as sterility may be impaired. o Do not use unless solution is clear and container is intact. • Because additives may be incompatible, evaluate all additions for compatibility and stability of the resulting preparation. Consult with a pharmacist, if available. If it is deemed advisable to introduce additives, use aseptic technique and mix thoroughly. • Calcium and phosphate ratios must be considered. Excess addition of calcium and phosphate, especially in the form of mineral salts, may result in the formation of calcium phosphate precipitates [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . Preparation for Admixing 1. The Pharmacy Bulk Package is to be used only in a suitable work area such as a laminar flow hood (or an equivalent clean air compounding area). Suspend container from eyelet support. 3. Remove plastic protector from outlet port at bottom of container. 4. Attach solution transfer set. Refer to complete directions accompanying set. Note: The closure shall be penetrated only one time with a suitable sterile transfer device or dispensing set which allows measured dispensing of the contents. 5. The VIAFLEX plastic container should not be written on directly since ink migration has not been investigated. Affix accompanying label for date and time of entry notation. 6. Once container closure has been penetrated, withdrawal of contents should be completed without delay. After initial entry, maintain contents at room temperature (25°C/77°F) and dispense within 4 hours. 2.2 Important Administration Instructions • Dextrose Injection is for admixing use only and is not for direct intravenous infusion . Prior to administration, Dextrose Injection must be diluted with other compatible intravenous fluids and used as an admixture in PN solutions . • To prevent air embolism, use a non-vented infusion set or close the vent on a vented set, avoid multiple connections, do not connect flexible containers in series, fully evacuate residual gas in the container prior to administration, do not pressurize the flexible container to increase flow rates, and if administration is controlled by a pumping device, turn off pump before the container runs dry. • When Dextrose Injection is admixed, the choice of a central or peripheral venous route should depend on the osmolarity of the final infusate. Solutions with an osmolarity of 900 mOsm/L or greater must be infused through a central venous catheter [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] . • Prior to infusion, visually inspect the PN solution to ensure precipitates have not formed during the mixing or addition of additives. Discard container if precipitates are observed. • If admixed or infused with lipid emulsion, do not use administration sets and lines that contain di-2-ethylhexyl phthalate (DEHP). Administration sets that contain polyvinyl chloride (PVC) components have DEHP as a plasticizer. 2.3 Dosing Instructions Caution: Dextrose Injection is not for direct intravenous infusion. Prior to administration, Dextrose Injection must be diluted with other compatible intravenous fluids or used as an admixture in PN solutions. Dextrose Injection is a part of the parenteral nutrition (PN) regimen which also includes amino acids, electrolytes, and possibly lipid emulsion. Protein, caloric, fluid and electrolyte requirements all need to be taken into consideration when determining individual patient dosage needs. Individualize the dosage of Dextrose Injection based on the patient’s clinical condition (ability to adequately metabolize dextrose), body weight, nutritional and fluid requirements, as well as additional energy given orally or enterally to the patient. Vitamins and trace elements and other components (including amino acids, electrolytes, and lipid emulsion) can be added to the PN solution to meet nutrient needs and prevent deficiencies and complications from developing. The administration rate should be governed, especially during the first few days of therapy, based on the patient’s tolerance to dextrose. Daily intake of amino acids and dextrose should be increased gradually to the maximum required dose as indicated by frequent determinations of blood glucose levels. In many patients, provision of adequate calories in the form of hypertonic dextrose may require the administration of exogenous insulin to prevent hyperglycemia and glycosuria. 2.4 Discontinuation of Dextrose Injection To reduce the risk of hypoglycemia, a gradual decrease in flow rate in the last hour of infusion should be considered [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Use in Specific Populations (8.4)] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The recommended dosage and duration are based on the patient’s age, weight, clinical condition, and concomitant therapy. ( 2.1 ) • To reduce the risk of air embolism, adhere to the preparation instructions. ( 2.2 , 5.2 ) • Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection is for intravenous use. ( 2.3 ) • Use a peripheral vein to administer if the final dextrose concentration is 5% or less, and the osmolarity is less than 900 mOsm/L. ( 2.3 ). • Consider using a central vein to administer hypertonic solutions with osmolarity of 900 mOsm/L or more to avoid venous irritation, including phlebitis. ( 2.3 ) • Do not administer Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection simultaneously with ceftriaxone in neonates (28 days of age or younger) due to serious risks. ( 2.4 ) • See full prescribing information for information dosage considerations, preparation, administration, and drug incompatibilities. ( 2 ) 2.1 Dosage Considerations The recommended dosage and duration of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection is based on the patient’s age, weight, clinical condition, and concomitant therapy. Evaluate the patient’s clinical status and monitor changes in blood glucose and electrolyte concentrations especially during prolonged use of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection to optimize clinical status. 2.2 Important Preparation Instructions Visually inspect the Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection solution for particulate matter and discoloration. Do not administer Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection unless the solution is clear and the container seals are intact. If additives are determined to be compatible with Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection then using aseptic technique, mix thoroughly; do not store solutions containing additives. After mixing, do not use if there is discoloration or formation of precipitates. To reduce the risk of air embolism, adhere to the following preparation instructions for Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] : • Use a non-vented infusion set or close the vent on a vented set. • Use a dedicated line without any connections (do not connect flexible containers in series). • The use of pressure infusion is not recommended as a method to increase flow rates. However, if pressure infusion is required, ensure that any air within the bag is fully evacuated prior to initiation of infusion. • If using a pumping device to administer Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection, turn off the pump before the container is empty. Preparation Instructions 1. Tear overwrap downside at slit and remove solution container. Visually inspect the container. o If the outlet port protector is damaged, detached, or not present, discard container as solution path sterility may be impaired. o Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed. Check for minute leaks by squeezing inner bag firmly. If supplemental medication is desired, follow directions below [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . Preparation for Administration 1. Remove protector from outlet port at bottom of container. Attach administration set according to its accompanying directions. 2.3 Important Administration Instructions Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection is for intravenous use. Use immediately after removing the overwrap. Discard the unused portion. • Use a peripheral vein to administer Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection if the final dextrose concentration is 5% or less, and the osmolarity is less than 900 mOsm/L. • Consider using a central vein to administer hypertonic solutions with osmolarity of 900 mOsm/L or more to avoid venous irritation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Some additives may be incompatible [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Contraindications (4) ] . To Add Medication Before Solution Administration 1. Prepare medication site. Using syringe with 19 to 22 gauge needle, puncture resealable medication port and inject. Mix solution and medication thoroughly. For high density medication such as potassium chloride, squeeze ports while ports are upright and mix thoroughly. To Add Medication During Solution Administration 1. Close clamp on the set. Using syringe with19 to 22 gauge needle, puncture resealable medication port and inject. Remove container from IV pole and/or turn to an upright position. Evacuate both ports by squeezing them while container is in the upright position. 7. Return container to in use position and continue administration. 2.4 Drug Incompatibilities Do not administer Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection simultaneously with ceftriaxone in neonates (28 days of age or younger) due to serious risks [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . However, in patients older than 28 days, ceftriaxone and Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection may be administered sequentially if the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Do not administer Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection simultaneously with citrate anticoagulated/preserved blood through the same administration set because of the likelihood of coagulation precipitated by the calcium content of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Only for intravenous infusion. ( 2.1 ) • See full prescribing information for information on preparation, administration, dosing considerations and instructions for use. ( 2.1 , 2.2 , 2.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions • Dextrose Injection is intended for intravenous use. • Peripheral administration of 5% dextrose is generally acceptable, however, consider central vein when administering more than 5% dextrose or with an osmolarity of at least 900 mOsm/L or when there is peripheral vein irritation, phlebitis, and/or associated pain [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . • Do not administer Dextrose Injection simultaneously with blood products through the same administration set because of the possibility of pseudoagglutination or hemolysis. • To prevent air embolism, use a non-vented infusion set or close the vent on a vented set, avoid multiple connections, do not connect flexible containers in series, do not pressurize the flexible container to increase flow rates, and if administration is controlled by a pumping device, turn off pump before the container runs dry. • Prior to infusion, visually inspect the diluted dextrose solution for particulate matter. The solution should be clear and there should be no precipitates. Do not administer unless solution is clear and container is undamaged. • Use of a final filter is recommended during administration of parenteral solutions, where possible. 2.2 Recommended Dosage The choice of dextrose concentration, rate and volume depends on the age, weight, clinical and metabolic conditions of the patient and concomitant therapy. Electrolyte supplementation may be indicated according to the clinical needs of the patient. The administration rate should be governed, especially for premature infants with low birth weight, during the first few days of therapy, by the patient’s tolerance to dextrose. Increase the infusion rate gradually as indicated by frequent monitoring of blood glucose concentrations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] . 2.3 Instructions for Use To Open • Do not remove from overpouch until ready to use. • Tear overwrap sharply down from the slit and remove solution container. • Visually inspect the container. Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed. Evaluate the following: • If the outlet port protector is damaged, detached, or not present, discard container. • Check to ensure the solution is clear and there are no precipitates. Discard if there is a color change and/or the appearance of precipitates, insoluble complexes or crystals. • Check for minute leaks by separately squeezing the inner bag firmly. If leaks are found, discard container. • Check that the vial adaptor cover is intact. If the vial adaptor cover is not intact, discard product. Preparation for Administration • Instructions for Assembly and Reconstitution: (Steps 1-3 for Assembly and steps 4-6 for Reconstitution) Step 1: Remove vial cover and disinfect stopper. Step 2: Peel off foil cover. Inspect adaptor for moisture. Discard if moisture is found. Step 3: Place vial upright and hold firmly. Push adaptor down until vial snaps in place. DO NOT TWIST. Pull vial to ensure fully seated. Step 4: Squeeze the bag and check vial. Use only if vial is fully seated and dry. Bend adaptor tube up and down to fully break and create a visible gap in the seal. Step 5: For liquid drug vials proceed directly to Step 6. For powdered drug vials: Hold bag with vial down. Squeeze solution into vial until half full. Shake to suspend drug in solution. Step 6: Hold bag with vial upside down. Squeeze bag to force air into vial. Release to drain suspended drug from vial. Repeat steps 5 and 6 until vial is empty of drug and solution is thoroughly mixed. Ensure drug is completely dissolved. Do Not Remove Drug Vial. • Inspect the container to ensure precipitates have not formed during the mixing or addition of additives and that the solution has not changed color. Discard the admixture if either are observed. • Insert transfer set into prepared solution container to be transferred. Follow directions accompanying transfer set. • Remove port protector and attached administration set per its directions. • Transfer solution by gravity. Ensure that vial is empty of drug and solution. Repeat step 6 if drug and solution remain in vial. • Check for leaks. To Add Medication • Additives may be incompatible. Complete information is not available. Do not use additives known or determined to be incompatible. • Consult with pharmacist, if available. If, in the informed judgment of the healthcare provider, it is deemed advisable to introduce additives, use aseptic technique. • When introducing additives, consult the instructions for use of the medication to be added and other relevant literature. • Before adding a substance or medication, verify that it is soluble and/or stable in Dextrose Injection and that the pH range of Dextrose Injection is appropriate. Storage • Use promptly after admixing or dilution; do not store solutions containing additives. • Single-dose container. • Discard unused portion. Assembly Step 1 Assembly Step 2 Assembly Step 3 Reconstitution Step 4 Reconstitution Step 5 Reconstitution Step 6 ( 2.1 ) • Infusion rate depends on the age, weight, clinical, and metabolic conditions of the patient and concomitant therapy. See full prescribing information for more information on preparation, administration, and dosing considerations. ( 2.1 , 2.2 , 2.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Dextrose Injection (5%) is intended for intravenous use. • Use a peripheral vein to administer if the final dextrose concentration is 5% or less and the osmolarity is less than 900 mOsm/L. • To avoid venous irritation, consider using a central vein to administer hypertonic solutions with osmolarity of 900 mOsm/L or greater [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . • Do not administer Dextrose Injection (5%) simultaneously with blood products through the same administration set because of the possibility of pseudoagglutination or hemolysis. • Discard the unused portion. • Do not use the Dextrose Injection (5%) ADD-Vantage TM diluent containers with chemotherapy agents. 2.2 Important Preparation Information Visually inspect the Dextrose Injection (5%) for particulate matter and discoloration. Do not administer Dextrose Injection (5%) if the solution is cloudy, there are precipitates, and the container is damaged. To reduce the risk of air embolism, adhere to the following preparation instructions for Dextrose Injection (5%): • Use a non-vented infusion set or close the vent on a vented set. • Do not pressurize the flexible container to increase flow rates. • If using a pumping device to administer Dextrose Injection (5%), turn off the pump before the container is empty. To Open : • Peel overwrap at corner and remove solution container. o Use unit within 30 days of opening overwrap, as long as the use date does not exceed the printed expiration date. • Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed. To Assemble Vial and Flexible Diluent Container : 1. Remove the protective covers from the top of the vial and the vial port on the diluent container as follows: a. To remove the breakaway vial cap, swing the pull ring over the top of the vial and pull down far enough to start the opening (SEE FIGURE 1.), then pull straight up to remove the cap. (SEE FIGURE 2.) NOTE: Once the breakaway cap has been removed, do not access the vial with the syringe. b. To remove the vial port cover, grasp the tab on the pull ring, pull up to break the three tie strings, then pull back to remove the cover. (SEE FIGURE 3.) 2. Screw the vial into the vial port until it will go no further. THE VIAL MUST BE SCREWED IN TIGHTLY TO ASSURE A SEAL. This occurs approximately 1/2 turn (180°) after the first audible click. (SEE FIGURE 4.) The clicking sound does not assure a seal; the vial must be turned as far as it will go. NOTE: Once vial is seated, do not attempt to remove. (SEE FIGURE 4.) 3. Recheck the vial to assure that it is tight by trying to turn it further in the direction of assembly. Label appropriately. To Reconstitute the Drug : 1. Squeeze the bottom of the diluent container gently to inflate the portion of the container surrounding the end of the drug vial. With the other hand, push the drug vial down into the container telescoping the walls of the container. Grasp the inner cap of the vial through the walls of the container. (SEE FIGURE 5.) 3. Pull the inner cap from the drug vial. (SEE FIGURE 6.) Verify that the rubber stopper has been pulled out, allowing the drug and diluent to mix. Mix container contents thoroughly and use within the specified time. Look through the bottom of the vial to verify that the stopper has been removed and complete mixing has occurred. (SEE FIGURE 7.) If the rubber stopper is not removed from the vial, and the medication is not released on the first attempt, the inner cap may be manipulated back into the rubber stopper without removing the drug vial from the diluent container. Repeat steps 3 through 5. Preparation for Administration: 1. Confirm the activation and admixture of vial contents. Check for leaks by squeezing the container firmly. If leaks are found, discard the unit because sterility may be compromised. Close the flow control clamp of the administration set. Remove the cover from the outlet port at the bottom of the container. Insert the piercing pin of the administration set into the port with a twisting motion until the pin is firmly seated. Note: See full directions on the administration set carton. Lift the free end of the hanger loop on the bottom of the vial, breaking the two tie strings. Bend the loop outward to lock it in the upright position, then suspend the container from the hanger. Squeeze and release the drip chamber to establish the proper fluid level in the chamber. 8. Open the flow control clamp and clear air from set. Close clamp. 9. Attach the set to the venipuncture device. If the device is not indwelling, prime and make venipuncture. 10. Regulate the rate of administration with the flow control clamp. Do not use the flexible container in series connections. Fig.1 and Fig. 2 Fig. 3 Fig 4 Fig 5 Fig 6 and Fig 7 2.3 Dosage Considerations The choice of dextrose concentration, rate, and volume depends on the age, weight, clinical, and metabolic conditions of the patient and concomitant therapy. Dextrose Injection (5%) administration rate should be based on the patient’s tolerance of dextrose, especially for preterm neonates with low birth weight. Increase the infusion rate gradually as needed; frequently monitor blood glucose concentrations to avoid hyperglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] .
Warnings: 5. WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5.1. Rx ONLY. 5.2. Do not use unless solutions are clear and free from particulates. 5.3. Always inspect the blood bag set for leaks before use. 5.4. Avoid excessive heat and direct sunlight. Protect from freezing. 5.5. Recommended storage conditions: Room Temperature (15-30°C/59-86°F). 5.6. It is normal to have condensation in the blister packaging. If the amount of moisture is greater than expected, check for leaks from the fluid-filled components of the blood bag set. 5.7. Use aseptic techniques. 5.8. Do not use a dielectric tube sealer to seal the tubing while the needle is connected to the donor's body unless it is approved for such a purpose. 5.9. Do not touch needle after removing the needle cover. 5.10. Assure that the White Clamp below the pouch is closed prior to initiating phlebotomy. 5.11. Do not collect donor test samples until the tubing between the "Y" and the diversion pouch is permanently sealed. 5.12. Discard the Diversion Blood Sampling Arm and phlebotomy needle/donor tubing according to institutional standard operating procedures. 5.13. The AGELESS oxygen absorber packet, (Mitsubishi Gas Chemical) contained in this package absorbs oxygen and generates heat on removal. Do not open and handle it with care. 5.14. Dispose of the AGELESS packet with the blister tray. 5.15. Do not dispose the AGELESS packet with wastes containing volatile or flammable materials. 5.16. Due to possible exposure to infectious agents in the handling of blood, take adequate precautions at all times to prevent exposure to and transmission of such agents. Follow your institution's standard operating procedures. WARNINGS Solutions which contain potassium ions should be used with great care, if at all, in patients with hyperkalemia, severe renal failure and in conditions in which potassium retention is present. To avoid potassium intoxication, do not infuse these solutions rapidly. In patients with severe renal insufficiency or adrenal insufficiency, administration of potassium chloride may cause potassium intoxication. In patients with diminished renal function, administration of solutions containing potassium ions may result in potassium retention. The intravenous administration of this solution can cause fluid and/or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations, overhydration, congested states or pulmonary edema. The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentration of administered parenteral solutions. The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of such solutions.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS NOT FOR PREPARATION OF BLOOD PRODUCTS FOR TRANSFUSION OR FOR DIRECT INTRAVENOUS INFUSION. NOT FOR PREPARATION OF BLOOD PRODUCTS FOR TRANSFUSION OR FOR DIRECT INTRAVENOUS INFUSION. ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Solutions containing potassium chloride are contraindicated in diseases where high potassium levels may be encountered. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of Dextrose Injection is contraindicated in patients: • Who are severely dehydrated as hypertonic dextrose solution can worsen the patient’s hyperosmolar state [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . • Known hypersensitivity to dextrose [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] . Severe dehydration. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection is contraindicated in: • Neonates (28 days of age or younger) who are receiving concomitant treatment with ceftriaxone, even if separate infusion lines are used, due to the risk of fatal ceftriaxone-calcium salt precipitation in the neonate’s bloodstream [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Specific Populations (8.4) ] . • Patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the components of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s solution and Dextrose (5%) Injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . • Patients with clinically significant hyperkalemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . • Patients with clinically significant hyperglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . • Concomitant treatment with ceftriaxone in neonates (28 days of age or younger). ( 4 ) • Patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the components of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s solution and Dextrose (5%) Injection ( 4 ) • Patients with clinically significant hyperkalemia ( 4 ). • Patients with clinically significant hyperglycemia ( 4 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of Dextrose Injection is contraindicated in patients with: • Clinically significant hyperglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. • Known hypersensitivity to dextrose [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. • Clinically significant hyperglycemia. ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to dextrose. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Dextrose Injection (5%) is contraindicated in patients with: • Clinically significant hyperglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . • Known hypersensitivity to dextrose [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] .
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible. Consult with pharmacist, if available. When introducing additives, use aseptic technique, mix thoroughly and do not store. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Other Products that Affect Glycemic Control, Vasopressin or Fluid and/or Electrolyte Balance : Monitor blood glucose concentrations, fluid balance serum electrolyte concentrations and acid-base balance. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Other Products that Affect Glycemic Control or Fluid and/or Electrolyte Balance Dextrose Injection can affect glycemic control and fluid and/or electrolyte balance [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.5 , 5.11 )] . Monitor blood glucose concentrations, fluid balance, serum electrolyte concentrations and acid-base balance when using Dextrose Injection in patients treated with other substances that affect glycemic control, or fluid and/or electrolyte balance (such as diuretics and anti-epileptics). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Drugs that Affect Electrolyte and/or Fluid Balance : Avoid concomitant use. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, closely monitor electrolyte concentrations and fluid balance. ( 7.1 ) • Lithium : Avoid concomitant use. If concomitant use is unavoidable, monitor serum lithium concentrations more frequently. ( 7.2 ) • Digoxin : Consider reducing the volume or rate of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection due to the increased risk of digoxin toxicity with calcium-containing solutions. ( 7.3 ) • Drugs with pH-Dependent Renal Elimination : Renal clearance of acidic drugs may be increased. In contrast, renal clearance of alkaline drugs may be decreased. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Drugs that Affect Electrolyte and/or Fluid Balance Hyperkalemia Administration of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection to patients concomitantly treated or recently treated with drugs that are associated with hyperkalemia increases the risk of severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, especially in the presence of other hyperkalemia risk factors. Avoid use of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection in patients receiving drugs that are associated with hyperkalemia (e.g., potassium-sparing diuretics, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or calcineurin inhibitors). If concomitant use cannot be avoided, closely monitor serum potassium concentrations during concomitant use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Hyponatremia Administration of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection to patients treated concomitantly with drugs associated with hyponatremia may increase the risk of developing hyponatremia. These drugs include diuretics and those that cause SIADH (e.g., arginine vasopressin analogs, certain antiepileptic, psychotropic, or cytotoxic drugs). Avoid use of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection in patients receiving such drugs. If use cannot be avoided, closely monitor serum sodium concentrations during concomitant use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Hypercalcemia Avoid the use of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection in patients treated with thiazide diuretics or vitamin D because these drugs can increase the risk of hypercalcemia. If use cannot be avoided, closely monitor serum calcium concentrations during concomitant use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Hypernatremia and Fluid Retention Administration of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection to patients treated concomitantly with drugs associated with sodium and fluid retention (e.g., corticosteroids or corticotropin) may increase the risk of hypernatremia and volume overload. If use cannot be avoided, closely monitor serum electrolytes, fluid balance, and acid-base balance during concomitant use. 7.2 Lithium Renal sodium and lithium clearance may be increased during concomitant use of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection and lithium and may result in decreased lithium concentrations. Avoid use of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection in patients receiving lithium. If use cannot be avoided, increase the frequency of monitoring of serum lithium concentrations during concomitant use. 7.3 Digoxin Administration of calcium via use of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection may increase digoxin’s effects and lead to digoxin toxicity including serious or fatal cardiac arrhythmias. In digoxin-treated patients, consider reducing the volume and/or rate of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection administration. 7.4 Drugs with pH-Dependent Renal Elimination Due to the alkalinizing action of lactate (formation of bicarbonate), Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection may interfere with the elimination of drugs with pH-dependent renal elimination. Renal clearance of alkaline drugs may be decreased. In contrast, renal clearance of acidic drugs may be increased. 7.5 Interference of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection with Interpretation of Serum Lactate Levels in Patients with Severe Metabolic Acidosis Because administration of Potassium Chloride in Lactated Ringer’s and Dextrose (5%) Injection may interfere with the interpretation of serum lactate levels in patients with severe metabolic acidosis, including lactic acidosis, assessment of the patient’s clinical status should not solely rely on the measurement of serum lactate. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Other Products that Affect Glycemic Control, Vasopressin or Fluid and/or Electrolyte Balance : Monitor blood glucose concentrations, fluid balance, serum electrolyte concentrations and acid-base balance. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Other Products that Affect Glycemic Control or Fluid and/or Electrolyte Balance Dextrose Injection can affect glycemic control, vasopressin and fluid and/or electrolyte balance [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.4 , 5.5) ] . Monitor blood glucose concentrations, fluid balance, serum electrolyte concentrations and acid-base balance when using Dextrose Injection in patients treated with other substances that affect glycemic control, vasopressin or fluid and/or electrolyte balance. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Effects on Glycemic Control and Electrolyte Balance: Monitor blood glucose concentrations, fluid balance, serum electrolyte concentrations, and acid-base balance. Avoid use of Dextrose Injection in patients receiving drugs associated with hyponatremia. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Drugs with Effects on Glycemic Control and Electrolyte Balance Dextrose Injection (5%) can affect glycemic control, vasopressin, and fluid and/or electrolyte balance [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.5 , 5.6 )] . Monitor patients’ blood glucose concentrations, fluid balance, serum electrolyte concentrations, and acid-base balance. Concomitant administration of Dextrose Injection (5%) with drugs associated with hyponatremia may increase the risk of developing hyponatremia. Drugs associated with hyponatremia include diuretics and those that cause SIADH (e.g., selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), arginine vasopressin analogs, certain antiepileptic, psychotropic, and cytotoxic drugs). Avoid use of Dextrose Injection (5%) in patients receiving drugs associated with hyponatremia.

=== LINEZOLID ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Linezolid for Oral Suspension is an oxazolidinone-class antibacterial indicated in adults and children for the treatment of the following infections caused by susceptible Gram-positive bacteria: Nosocomial pneumonia ( 1.1 ); Community-acquired pneumonia ( 1. 2); Complicated skin and skin structure infections, including diabetic foot infections, without concomitant osteomyelitis ( 1. 3); Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections ( 1. 4); Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections. ( 1. 5) Limitations of Use ( 1.6 ): • Linezolid is not indicated for the treatment of Gram-negative infections. • The safety and efficacy of linezolid formulations given for longer than 28 days have not been evaluated in controlled clinical trials. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of linezolid formulations and other antibacterial drugs, linezolid should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.7 ) 1.1 Nosocomial Pneumonia Linezolid is indicated for the treatment of nosocomial pneumonia caused by Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible and -resistant isolates) or Streptococcus pneumoniae [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. 1.2 Community-acquired Pneumonia Linezolid is indicated for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae , including cases with concurrent bacteremia, or Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible isolates only) [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. 1.3 Complicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections Linezolid is indicated for the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections, including diabetic foot infections, without concomitant osteomyelitis, caused by Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible and -resistant isolates), Streptococcus pyogenes , or Streptococcus agalactiae . Linezolid has not been studied in the treatment of decubitus ulcers [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. 1.4 Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections Linezolid is indicated for the treatment of uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible isolates only) or Streptococcus pyogenes [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. 1.5 Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium Infections Linezolid is indicated for the treatment of vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections, including cases with concurrent bacteremia [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. 1.6 Limitations of Use • Linezolid is not indicated for the treatment of Gram-negative infections. It is critical that specific Gram-negative therapy be initiated immediately if a concomitant Gram-negative pathogen is documented or suspected [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. • The safety and efficacy of linezolid formulations given for longer than 28 days have not been evaluated in controlled clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. 1.7 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of linezolid and other antibacterial drugs, linezolid should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Linezolid injection is indicated for the treatment of infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms in the specific conditions listed below. Linezolid injection is not indicated for the treatment of Gram-negative infections. It is critical that specific Gram-negative therapy be initiated immediately if a concomitant Gram-negative pathogen is documented or suspected [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 ) ]. Linezolid injection is an oxazolidinone-class antibacterial indicated in adults and children for the treatment of the following infections caused by susceptible Gram-positive bacteria: Nosocomial pneumonia ( 1.1 ); Community-acquired pneumonia ( 1.1 ); Complicated skin and skin structure infections, including diabetic foot infections, without concomitant osteomyelitis ( 1.2 ); Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections ( 1.2 ); Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections. ( 1.3 ) To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of linezolid and other antibacterial drugs, linezolid injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.4 ) 1.1 Pneumonia Nosocomial pneumonia caused by Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible and -resistant isolates) or Streptococcus pneumoniae [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. Community-acquired pneumonia caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae , including cases with concurrent bacteremia, or Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible isolates only) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. 1.2 Skin and Skin Structure Infections Complicated skin and skin structure infections, including diabetic foot infections, without concomitant osteomyelitis , caused by Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible and -resistant isolates), Streptococcus pyogenes , or Streptococcus agalactiae . Linezolid injection has not been studied in the treatment of decubitus ulcers [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible isolates only) or Streptococcus pyogenes [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. 1.3 Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium Infections Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections , including cases with concurrent bacteremia [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. 1.4 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of linezolid injection and other antibacterial drugs, linezolid injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. The safety and efficacy of linezolid injection given for longer than 28 days have not been evaluated in controlled clinical trials. 1.1 Pneumonia Nosocomial pneumonia caused by Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible and -resistant isolates) or Streptococcus pneumoniae [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Linezolid injection is an oxazolidinone-class antibacterial indicated in adults and children for the treatment of the following infections caused by susceptible Gram-positive bacteria: Nosocomial pneumonia ( 1.1 ); Community-acquired pneumonia ( 1.2 ); Complicated skin and skin structure infections, including diabetic foot infections, without concomitant osteomyelitis ( 1.3 ); Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections. ( 1.5 ) Limitations of Use ( 1.6 ): Linezolid injection is not indicated for the treatment of Gram-negative infections. The safety and efficacy of linezolid injection formulation given for longer than 28 days have not been evaluated in controlled clinical trials. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of linezolid formulation and other antibacterial drugs, linezolid should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.7 ) 1.1 Nosocomial Pneumonia Linezolid injection is indicated for the treatment of nosocomial pneumonia caused by Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin- susceptible and -resistant isolates) or Streptococcus pneumoniae [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. 1.2 Community-acquired Pneumonia Linezolid injection is indicated for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae , including cases with concurrent bacteremia, or Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible isolates only) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. 1.3 Complicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections Linezolid injection is indicated for the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections, including diabetic foot infections, without concomitant osteomyelitis, caused by Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible and -resistant isolates), Streptococcus pyogenes , or Streptococcus agalactiae . 1.5 Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium Infections Linezolid injection is indicated for the treatment of vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections, including cases with concurrent bacteremia [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. 1.6 Limitations of Use Linezolid injection is not indicated for the treatment of Gram-negative infections. The safety and efficacy of linezolid injection formulation given for longer than 28 days have not been evaluated in controlled clinical trials [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. 1.7 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of linezolid and other antibacterial drugs, linezolid injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Linezolid is an oxazolidinone-class antibacterial indicated in adults and children for the treatment of the following infections caused by susceptible Gram-positive bacteria: Nosocomial pneumonia ( 1.1 ); Community-acquired pneumonia ( 1.2 ); Complicated skin and skin structure infections, including diabetic foot infections, without concomitant osteomyelitis ( 1.3 ); Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections ( 1.4 ); Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections. ( 1.5 ) Limitations of Use ( 1.6 ): • Linezolid is not indicated for the treatment of Gram-negative infections. ( 1.7 ) 1.1 Nosocomial Pneumonia Linezolid is indicated for the treatment of nosocomial pneumonia caused by Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible and -resistant isolates) or Streptococcus pneumoniae [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. 1.2 Community-acquired Pneumonia Linezolid is indicated for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae , including cases with concurrent bacteremia, or Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible isolates only) [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. Linezolid has not been studied in the treatment of decubitus ulcers [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. 1.4 Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections Linezolid is indicated for the treatment of uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible isolates only) or Streptococcus pyogenes [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. 1.5 Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium Infections Linezolid is indicated for the treatment of vancomycin - resistant Enterococcus faecium infections, including cases with concurrent bacteremia [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. It is critical that specific Gram-negative therapy be initiated immediately if a concomitant Gram-negative pathogen is documented or suspected [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. • The safety and efficacy of linezolid formulations given for longer than 28 days have not been evaluated in controlled clinical trials [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Linezolid tablets are an oxazolidinone-class antibacterial indicated in adults and children for the treatment of the following infections caused by susceptible Gram-positive bacteria: Nosocomial pneumonia (1.1); Community-acquired pneumonia (1.2); Complicated skin and skin structure infections, including diabetic foot infections, without concomitant osteomyelitis (1.3); Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections (1.4); Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections. (1.5) Limitations of Use (1.6): • Linezolid tablets are not indicated for the treatment of Gram-negative infections. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of linezolid formulations and other antibacterial drugs, linezolid tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. (1.7) 1.1 Nosocomial Pneumonia Linezolid tablets are indicated for the treatment of nosocomial pneumonia caused by Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible and -resistant isolates) or Streptococcus pneumoniae [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . 1.2 Community-acquired Pneumonia Linezolid tablets are indicated for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae , including cases with concurrent bacteremia, or Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible isolates only) [see Clinical Studies (14)] . 1.3 Complicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections Linezolid tablets are indicated for the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections, including diabetic foot infections, without concomitant osteomyelitis, caused by Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible and -resistant isolates), Streptococcus pyogenes , or Streptococcus agalactiae . linezolid tablets have not been studied in the treatment of decubitus ulcers [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . 1.4 Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections Linezolid tablets are indicated for the treatment of uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible isolates only) or Streptococcus pyogenes [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . 1.5 Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium Infections Linezolid tablets are indicated for the treatment of vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections, including cases with concurrent bacteremia [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . 1.6 Limitations of Use • Linezolid tablets are not indicated for the treatment of Gram-negative infections. It is critical that specific Gram-negative therapy be initiated immediately if a concomitant Gram-negative pathogen is documented or suspected [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] . • The safety and efficacy of linezolid formulations given for longer than 28 days have not been evaluated in controlled clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . 1.7 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of linezolid tablets and other antibacterial drugs, linezolid tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Linezolid is an oxazolidinone-class antibacterial indicated in adults and children for the treatment of the following infections caused by susceptible Gram-positive bacteria: Nosocomial pneumonia (1.1); Community-acquired pneumonia ( 1.2 ); Complicated skin and skin structure infections, including diabetic foot infections, without concomitant osteomyelitis ( 1.3 ); Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections ( 1.4 ); Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections. ( 1.5 ) Limitations of Use ( 1.6 ): Linezolid tablets are not indicated for the treatment of Gram-negative infections. The safety and efficacy of linezolid tablets formulations given for longer than 28 days have not been evaluated in controlled clinical trials. ( 1.7 ) 1.1 Nosocomial Pneumonia Linezolid is indicated for the treatment of nosocomial pneumonia caused by Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible and -resistant isolates) or Streptococcus pneumoniae [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. 1.2 Community-acquired Pneumonia Linezolid is indicated for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae , including cases with concurrent bacteremia, or Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible isolates only) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. Linezolid has not been studied in the treatment of decubitus ulcers [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. 1.4 Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections Linezolid is indicated for the treatment of uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible isolates only) or Streptococcus pyogenes [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. 1.5 Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium Infections Linezolid is indicated for the treatment of vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections, including cases with concurrent bacteremia [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. 1.6 Limitations of Use Linezolid is not indicated for the treatment of Gram-negative infections. The safety and efficacy of linezolid formulations given for longer than 28 days have not been evaluated in controlled clinical trials [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ZYVOX is an oxazolidinone-class antibacterial indicated in adults and children for the treatment of the following infections caused by susceptible Gram-positive bacteria: Nosocomial pneumonia ( 1.1 ); Community-acquired pneumonia ( 1.2 ); Complicated skin and skin structure infections, including diabetic foot infections, without concomitant osteomyelitis ( 1.3 ); Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections ( 1.4 ); Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections. ( 1.5 ) Limitations of Use ( 1.6 ): • ZYVOX is not indicated for the treatment of Gram-negative infections. • The safety and efficacy of ZYVOX formulations given for longer than 28 days have not been evaluated in controlled clinical trials. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ZYVOX formulations and other antibacterial drugs, ZYVOX should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.7 ) 1.1 Nosocomial Pneumonia ZYVOX is indicated for the treatment of nosocomial pneumonia caused by Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible and -resistant isolates) or Streptococcus pneumoniae [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. 1.2 Community-acquired Pneumonia ZYVOX is indicated for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae , including cases with concurrent bacteremia, or Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible isolates only) [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. 1.3 Complicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections ZYVOX is indicated for the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections, including diabetic foot infections, without concomitant osteomyelitis, caused by Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible and -resistant isolates), Streptococcus pyogenes , or Streptococcus agalactiae . ZYVOX has not been studied in the treatment of decubitus ulcers [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. 1.4 Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections ZYVOX is indicated for the treatment of uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible isolates only) or Streptococcus pyogenes [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. 1.5 Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium Infections ZYVOX is indicated for the treatment of vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections, including cases with concurrent bacteremia [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. 1.6 Limitations of Use • ZYVOX is not indicated for the treatment of Gram-negative infections. • The safety and efficacy of ZYVOX formulations given for longer than 28 days have not been evaluated in controlled clinical trials [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. 1.7 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of ZYVOX and other antibacterial drugs, ZYVOX should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Linezolid tablets are an oxazolidinone-class antibacterial indicated in adults and children for the treatment of the following infections caused by susceptible Gram-positive bacteria: Nosocomial pneumonia ( 1.1 ); Community-acquired pneumonia ( 1.2 ); Complicated skin and skin structure infections, including diabetic foot infections, without concomitant osteomyelitis ( 1.3 ); Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections ( 1.4 ); Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections. ( 1.5 ) Limitations of Use ( 1.6 ): • Linezolid tablets are not indicated for the treatment of Gram-negative infections. • The safety and efficacy of linezolid tablets given for longer than 28 days have not been evaluated in controlled clinical trials. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of linezolid tablets and other antibacterial drugs, linezolid tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. ( 1.7 ) 1.1 Nosocomial Pneumonia Linezolid tablets are indicated for the treatment of nosocomial pneumonia caused by Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible and -resistant isolates) or Streptococcus pneumoniae [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. 1.2 Community-acquired Pneumonia Linezolid tablets are indicated for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae , including cases with concurrent bacteremia, or Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible isolates only) [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. Linezolid tablets have not been studied in the treatment of decubitus ulcers [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. 1.4 Uncomplicated Skin and Skin Structure Infections Linezolid tablets are indicated for the treatment of uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus (methicillin-susceptible isolates only) or Streptococcus pyogenes [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. 1.5 Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium Infections Linezolid tablets are indicated for the treatment of vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections, including cases with concurrent bacteremia [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. 1.6 Limitations of Use Linezolid tablets are not indicated for the treatment of Gram-negative infections. The safety and efficacy of linezolid formulations given for longer than 28 days have not been evaluated in controlled clinical trials [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. ( 1.5 ) Limitations of Use ( 1.6 ) : • ZYVOX is not indicated for the treatment of Gram-negative infections.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage, Route, and Frequency of Administration Infection Pediatric Patients (Birth through 11 years of age) Adults and Adolescents (12 years and older) Duration (Days) Nosocomial pneumonia Community-acquired pneumonia, including concurrent bacteremia 10 mg/kg intravenous or oral every 8 hours 600 mg intravenous or oral every 12 hours 10 to 14 Complicated skin and skin structure infections Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections, including concurrent bacteremia 10 mg/kg intravenous or oral every 8 hours 600 mg intravenous or oral every 12 hours 14 to 28 Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections less than 5 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral every 8 hours 5 to 11 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral every 12 hours Adults: 400 mg oral every 12 hours Adolescents: 600 mg oral every 12 hours 10 to 14 2.1 General Dosage and Administration The recommended dosage for linezolid formulations for the treatment of infections is described in Table 1. Table 1. Dosage Guidelines for Linezolid Infection Due to the designated pathogens [see Indications and Usage ( 1 )]. Dosage, Route, and Frequency of Administration Recommended Duration of Treatment (Consecutive Days) Pediatric Patients Neonates less than 7 days: Most pre-term neonates less than 7 days of age (gestational age less than 34 weeks) have lower systemic linezolid clearance values and larger AUC values than many full-term neonates and older infants. These neonates should be initiated with a dosing regimen of 10 mg/kg every 12 hours. Consideration may be given to the use of 10 mg/kg every 8 hours regimen in neonates with a sub-optimal clinical response. All neonatal patients should receive 10 mg/kg every 8 hours by 7 days of life [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. (Birth through 11 Years of Age) Adults and Adolescents (12 Years and Older) Nosocomial pneumonia 10 mg/kg intravenously or oral Oral dosing using either linezolid tablets or Linezolid for Oral Suspension [see How Supplied/Storage and Handling ( 16 )]. every 8 hours 600 mg intravenously or oral every 12 hours 10 to 14 Community-acquired pneumonia, including concurrent bacteremia Complicated skin and skin structure infections Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections, including concurrent bacteremia 10 mg/kg intravenously or oral every 8 hours 600 mg intravenously or oral every 12 hours 14 to 28 Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections Less than 5 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral every 8 hours 5 to 11 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral every 12 hours Adults: 400 mg oral every 12 hours Adolescents: 600 mg oral every 12 hours 10 to 14 No dose adjustment is necessary when switching from intravenous to oral administration. 2.5 Constitution of Oral Suspension Linezolid for Oral Suspension is supplied as a powder for constitution. Gently tap bottle to loosen powder. Add a total of 123 mL distilled water in two portions. After adding the first half, shake vigorously to wet all of the powder. Then add the second half of the water and shake vigorously to obtain a uniform suspension. After constitution, each 5 mL of the suspension contains 100 mg of linezolid. Before using, gently mix by inverting the bottle 3 to 5 times. Do not shake . Store constituted suspension at room temperature. Use within 21 days after constitution. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage, Route, and Frequency of Administration Infection Pediatric Patients Adults and Adolescents Duration (days ) Nosocomial pneumonia 10 mg/kg intravenous or oral every 8 hours 600 mg intravenous or oral every 12 hours 10 to 14 Community-acquired pneumonia, including concurrent bacteremia Complicated skin and skin structure infections Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections, including concurrent bacteremia 10 mg/kg intravenous or oral every 8 hours 600 mg intravenous or oral every 12 hours 14 to 28 Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections Less than 5 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral every 8 hours 5 to 11 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral every 12 hours Adults: 400 mg oral every 12 hours Adolescents: 600 mg oral every 12 hours 10 to 14 2.1 General Dosage and Administration The recommended dosage for linezolid formulations for the treatment of infections is described in Table 1. Dosage Guidelines for Linezolid Infection* Dosage and Route of Administration Recommended Duration of Treatment (consecutive days) Pediatric Patients † (Birth through 11 Years of Age) Adults and Adolescents (12 Years and Older) Nosocomial pneumonia 10 mg/kg intravenously or oral ‡ every 8 hours 600 mg intravenously or oral ‡ every 12 hours 10 to 14 Community-acquired pneumonia, including concurrent bacteremia Complicated skin and skin structure infections Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections , including concurrent bacteremia 10 mg/kg intravenously or oral ‡ every 8 hours 600 mg intravenously or oral ‡ every 12 hours 14 to 28 Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections Less than 5 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral ‡ every 8 hours 5 to 11 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral ‡ every 12 hours Adults: 400 mg oral ‡ every 12 hours Adolescents: 600 mg oral ‡ every 12 hours 10 to 14 * Due to the designated pathogens [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ]. † Neonates less than 7 days : Most pre-term neonates less than 7 days of age (gestational age less than 34 weeks) have lower systemic linezolid clearance values and larger AUC values than many full-term neonates and older infants. All neonatal patients should receive 10 mg/kg every 8 hours by 7 days of life [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. ‡ Oral dosing using either linezolid tablets or linezolid for oral suspension. No dose adjustment is necessary when switching from intravenous to oral administration. 2.2 Intravenous Administration Linezolid injection is supplied in single-use, ready-to-use flexible plastic containers. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter prior to administration. Check for leakage by squeezing container firmly. If any leakage, discard solution as sterility may be impaired . Keep the infusion bag in the overwrap until ready to use. Store at room temperature. Protect from freezing. Linezolid injection may exhibit a yellow color that can intensify over time without adversely affecting potency. Linezolid injection should be administered by intravenous infusion over a period of 30 to 120 minutes. Do not use this intravenous flexible plastic container in series connections . Additives should not be introduced into this solution. If linezolid injection is to be given concomitantly with another drug, each drug should be given separately in accordance with the recommended dosage and route of administration for each product. If the same intravenous line is used for sequential infusion of several drugs, the line should be flushed before and after infusion of linezolid injection with an infusion solution compatible with linezolid injection and with any other drug(s) administered via this common line. 2.3 Compatibilities Compatible intravenous solutions include 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, 5% Dextrose Injection, and Lactated Ringer’s Injection. 2.4 Incompatibilities Physical incompatibilities resulted when linezolid injection was combined with the following drugs during simulated Y-site administration: amphotericin B, chlorpromazine HCl, diazepam, pentamidine isothionate, erythromycin lactobionate, phenytoin sodium, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. Additionally, chemical incompatibility resulted when linezolid injection was combined with ceftriaxone sodium. 2.1 General Dosage and Administration The recommended dosage for linezolid formulations for the treatment of infections is described in Table 1. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage, Route, and Frequency of Administration Infection Pediatric Patients (Birth through 11 years of Age) Adults and Adolescents (12 years and Older) Duration (days) Nosocomial pneumonia 10 mg/kg intravenous every 8 hours 600 mg intravenous every 12 hours 10 to 14 Community-acquired pneumonia, including concurrent bacteremia Complicated skin and skin structure infections Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections , including concurrent bacteremia 10 mg/kg intravenous every 8 hours 600 mg intravenous every 12 hours 14 to 28 2.1 General Dosage and Administration The recommended dosage for linezolid injection formulation for the treatment of infections is described in Table 1. Dosage Guidelines for Linezolid Injection Infection * Dosage, Route and Frequency of Administration Recommended Duration of Treatment (consecutive days) Pediatric Patients † (Birth through 11 Years of Age) Adults and Adolescents (12 Years and Older) Nosocomial pneumonia 10 mg/kg intravenously every 8 hours 600 mg intravenously every 12 hours 10 to 14 Community-acquired pneumonia, including concurrent bacteremia Complicated skin and skin structure infections Vancomycin- resistant Enterococcus faecium infections , including concurrent bacteremia 10 mg/kg intravenously every 8 hours 600 mg intravenously every 12 hours 14 to 28 * Due to the designated pathogens [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] † Neonates less than 7 days: Most pre-term neonates less than 7 days of age (gestational age less than 34 weeks) have lower systemic linezolid clearance values and larger AUC values than many full-term neonates and older infants. 2.2 Intravenous Administration Linezolid injection is supplied in single-dose, ready-to-use infusion bags. Check for minute leaks by firmly squeezing the bag. If leaks are detected, discard the solution, as sterility may be impaired. Keep the infusion bags in the overwrap until ready to use. Do not use this intravenous infusion bag in series connections . Discard unused portion. 2.3 Compatibilities Compatible intravenous solutions include 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, and Lactated Ringer’s Injection, USP. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage, Route, and Frequency of Administration Infection Pediatric Patients (Birth through 11 years of Age) Adults and Adolescents (12 years and Older) Duration (days) Nosocomial pneumonia 10 mg/kg intravenous or oral every 8 hours 600 mg intravenous or oral every 12 hours 10 to 14 Community-acquired pneumonia, including concurrent bacteremia Complicated skin and skin structure infections Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections , including concurrent bacteremia 10 mg/kg intravenous or oral every 8 hours 600 mg intravenous or oral every 12 hours 14 to 28 Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections less than 5 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral every 8 hours 5–11 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral every 12 hours Adults: 400 mg oral every 12 hours Adolescents: 600 mg oral every 12 hours 10 to 14 2.1 General Dosage and Administration The recommended dosage for linezolid formulations for the treatment of infections is described in Table 1. Dosage Guidelines for linezolid Dosage, Route and Frequency of Administration Recommended Duration of Treatment (consecutive days) Infection Due to the designated pathogens [ see Indications and Usage (1) ] Pediatric Patients Neonates less than 7 days : Most pre-term neonates less than 7 days of age (gestational age less than 34 weeks) have lower systemic linezolid clearance values and larger AUC values than many full-term neonates and older infants. All neonatal patients should receive 10 mg/kg every 8 hours by 7 days of life [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. (Birth through 11 Years of Age) Adults and Adolescents (12 Years and Older) Nosocomial pneumonia 10 mg/kg intravenously or oral Oral dosing using either linezolid Tablets or linezolid for Oral Suspension [ see How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16) ]. every 8 hours 600 mg intravenously or oral every 12 hours 10 to 14 Community-acquired pneumonia, including concurrent bacteremia Complicated skin and skin structure infections Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections , including concurrent bacteremia 10 mg/kg intravenously or oral every 8 hours 600 mg intravenously or oral every 12 hours 14 to 28 Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections less than 5 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral every 8 hours 5–11 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral every 12 hours Adults: 400 mg oral every 12 hours Adolescents: 600 mg oral every 12 hours 10 to 14 No dose adjustment is necessary when switching from intravenous to oral administration. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage, Route, and Frequency of Administration Infection Pediatric Patients (Birth through 11 years of Age) Adults and Adolescents (12 years and Older) Duration (days) Nosocomial pneumonia 10 mg/kg oral every 8 hours 600 mg oral every 12 hours 10 to 14 Community-acquired pneumonia, including concurrent bacteremia Complicated skin and skin structure infections Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections, including concurrent bacteremia 10 mg/kg oral every 8 hours 600 mg oral every 12 hours 14 to 28 Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections less than 5 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral every 8 hours 5-11 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral every 12 hours Adults: 400 mg oral every 12 hours Adolescents: 600 mg oral every 12 hours 10 to 14 2.1 General Dosage and Administration The recommended dosage for linezolid formulations for the treatment of infections is described in Table 1. Dosage Guidelines for Linezolid Infection* Dosage, Route and Frequency of Administration Recommended Duration of Treatment (consecutive days) Pediatric Patients † (Birth through 11 Years of Age) Adults and Adolescent (12 Years and Older) Nosocomial pneumonia 10 mg/kg oral ‡ every 8 hours 600 mg oral ‡ every 12 hours 10 to 14 Community-acquired pneumonia, including concurrent bacteremia Complicated skin and skin structure infections Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections , including concurrent bacteremia 10 mg/kg oral ‡ every 8 hours 600 mg oral ‡ every 12 hours 14 to 28 Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections less than 5 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral ‡ every 8 hours 5-11 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral ‡ every 12 hours Adults: 400 mg oral ‡ every 12 hours Adolescents: 600 mg oral ‡ every 12 hours 10 to 14 * Due to the designated pathogens [see Indications and Usage ( 1 )] † Neonates less than 7 days: Most pre-term neonates less than 7 days of age (gestational age less than 34 weeks) have lower systemic linezolid clearance values and larger AUC values than many full-term neonates and older infants. ‡ Oral dosing using linezolid tablets [see How Supplied/Storage and Handling ( 16 )]. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Dosage, Route, and Frequency of Administration Infection Pediatric Patients (Birth through 11 years of Age) Adults and Adolescents (12 years and Older) Duration (days ) Nosocomial pneumonia 10 mg/kg intravenous or oral every 8 hours 600 mg intravenous or oral every 12 hours 10 to 14 Community-acquired pneumonia, including concurrent bacteremia Complicated skin and skin structure infections Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections, including concurrent bacteremia 10 mg/kg intravenous or oral every 8 hours 600 mg intravenous or oral every 12 hours 14 to 28 Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections less than 5 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral every 8 hours 5 to 11 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral every 12 hours Adults: 400 mg oral every 12 hours Adolescents: 600 mg oral every 12 hours 10 to 14 2.1 General Dosage and Administration The recommended dosage for Linezolid formulations for the treatment of infections is described in Table 1. Dosage Guidelines for Linezolid Dosage, Route and Frequency of Administration Recommended Duration of Treatment (consecutive days) Infection* Pediatric Patients† (Birth through 11 Years of Age) Adults and Adolescents (12 Years and Older) Nosocomial pneumonia 10 mg/kg intravenously or oral ‡ every 8 hours 600 mg intravenously or oral ‡ every 12 hours 10 to 14 Community-acquired pneumonia, including concurrent bacteremia Complicated skin and skin structure infections Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections, including concurrent bacteremia 10 mg/kg intravenously or oral ‡ every 8 hours 600 mg intravenously or oral ‡ every 12 hours 14 to 28 Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections less than 5 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral ‡ every 8 hours 5 to 11 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral ‡ every 12 hours Adults: 400 mg oral ‡ every 12 hours Adolescents: 600 mg oral ‡ every 12 hours 10 to 14 * Due to the designated pathogens [ see Indications and Usage (1) ] † Neonates less than 7 days : Most pre-term neonates less than 7 days of age (gestational age less than 34 weeks) have lower systemic linezolid clearance values and larger AUC values than many full-term neonates and older infants. All neonatal patients should receive 10 mg/kg every 8 hours by 7 days of life [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3 ) ]. ‡ Oral dosing using either Linezolid Tablets or Linezolid for Oral Suspension [ see How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage, Route, and Frequency of Administration Infection Pediatric Patients (Birth through 11 years of Age) Adults and Adolescents (12 years and Older) Duration (days) Nosocomial pneumonia 10 mg/kg intravenous or oral every 8 hours 600 mg intravenous or oral every 12 hours 10 to 14 Community-acquired pneumonia, including concurrent bacteremia Complicated skin and skin structure infections Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections , including concurrent bacteremia 10 mg/kg intravenous or oral every 8 hours 600 mg intravenous or oral every 12 hours 14 to 28 Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections less than 5 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral every 8 hours 5–11 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral every 12 hours Adults: 400 mg oral every 12 hours Adolescents: 600 mg oral every 12 hours 10 to 14 2.1 General Dosage and Administration The recommended dosage for ZYVOX formulations for the treatment of infections is described in Table 1. Dosage Guidelines for ZYVOX Infection Due to the designated pathogens [ see Indications and Usage (1) ] Dosage, Route and Frequency of Administration Recommended Duration of Treatment (consecutive days) Pediatric Patients Neonates less than 7 days : Most pre-term neonates less than 7 days of age (gestational age less than 34 weeks) have lower systemic linezolid clearance values and larger AUC values than many full-term neonates and older infants. (Birth through 11 Years of Age) Adults and Adolescents (12 Years and Older) Nosocomial pneumonia 10 mg/kg intravenously or oral Oral dosing using either ZYVOX Tablets or ZYVOX for Oral Suspension [ see How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16) ]. 2.2 Intravenous Administration ZYVOX I.V. Injection is supplied in single-dose, ready-to-use infusion bags. If leaks are detected, discard the solution, as sterility may be impaired . ZYVOX I.V. Injection may exhibit a yellow color that can intensify over time without adversely affecting potency. Injection should be administered by intravenous infusion over a period of 30 to 120 minutes. If ZYVOX I.V. Injection is to be given concomitantly with another drug, each drug should be given separately in accordance with the recommended dosage and route of administration for each product. If the same intravenous line is used for sequential infusion of several drugs, the line should be flushed before and after infusion of ZYVOX I.V. Injection with an infusion solution compatible with ZYVOX I.V. Injection and with any other drug(s) administered via this common line. 2.3 Compatibilities Compatible intravenous solutions include 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, and Lactated Ringer's Injection, USP. 2.4 Incompatibilities Physical incompatibilities resulted when ZYVOX I.V. Injection was combined with the following drugs during simulated Y-site administration: amphotericin B, chlorpromazine HCl, diazepam, pentamidine isothionate, erythromycin lactobionate, phenytoin sodium, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. Additionally, chemical incompatibility resulted when ZYVOX I.V. Injection was combined with ceftriaxone sodium. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Dosage, Route, and Frequency of Administration Infection Pediatric Patients (Birth through 11 years of Age) Adults and Adolescents (12 years and Older) Duration (days) Nosocomial pneumonia 10 mg/kg intravenous or oral every 8 hours 600 mg intravenous or oral every 12 hours 10 to 14 Community-acquired pneumonia, including concurrent bacteremia Complicated skin and skin structure infections Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections, including concurrent bacteremia 10 mg/kg intravenous or oral every 8 hours 600 mg intravenous or oral every 12 hours 14 to 28 Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections less than 5 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral every 8 hours 5-11 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral every 12 hours Adults: 400 mg oral every 12 hours Adolescents: 600 mg oral every 12 hours 10 to 14 2.1 General Dosage and Administration The recommended dosage for linezolid for the treatment of infections is described in Table 1. Dosage Guidelines for Linezolid Infection * Dosage, Route and Frequency of Administration Recommended Duration of Treatment (consecutive days) Pediatric Patients † (Birth through 11 Years of Age) Adults and Adolescents (12 Years and Older) Nosocomial pneumonia 10 mg/kg intravenously or oral ‡ every 8 hours 600 mg intravenously or oral ‡ every 12 hours 10 to 14 Community-acquired pneumonia, including concurrent bacteremia Complicated skin and skin structure infections Vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium infections, including concurrent bacteremia 10 mg/kg intravenously or oral ‡ every 8 hours 600 mg intravenously or oral ‡ every 12 hours 14 to 28 Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections less than 5 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral ‡ every 8 hours 5-11 yrs: 10 mg/kg oral ‡ every 12 hours Adults: 400 mg oral ‡ every 12 hours Adolescents: 600 mg oral ‡ every 12 hours 10 to 14 * Due to the designated pathogens [ see Indications and Usage (1) ] † Neonates less than 7 days : Most pre-term neonates less than 7 days of age (gestational age less than 34 weeks) have lower systemic linezolid clearance values and larger AUC values than many full-term neonates and older infants. Dosage Guidelines for ZYVOX Dosage, Route and Frequency of Administration Recommended Duration of Treatment (consecutive days) Infection Due to the designated pathogens [ see Indications and Usage (1) ] Pediatric Patients Neonates less than 7 days : Most pre-term neonates less than 7 days of age (gestational age less than 34 weeks) have lower systemic linezolid clearance values and larger AUC values than many full-term neonates and older infants. 2.5 Constitution of Oral Suspension ZYVOX for Oral Suspension is supplied as a powder/granule for constitution.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Known hypersensitivity to linezolid or any of the other product components. ( 4.1 ) • Patients taking any monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) or within two weeks of taking an MAOI. ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Linezolid formulations are contraindicated for use in patients who have known hypersensitivity to linezolid or any of the other product components . 4.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Linezolid should not be used in patients taking any medicinal product which inhibits monoamine oxidases A or B (e.g., phenelzine, isocarboxazid) or within two weeks of taking any such medicinal product. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to linezolid or any of the other product components. (4.1); Patients taking any monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) or within two weeks of taking an MAOI. (4.2) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Linezolid is contraindicated for use in patients who have known hypersensitivity to linezolid or any of the other product components. 4.1 Hypersensitivity Linezolid is contraindicated for use in patients who have known hypersensitivity to linezolid or any of the other product components. ( 4.1 ) Patients taking any monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) or within two weeks of taking an MAOI. ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Linezolid injection formulation is contraindicated for use in patients who have known hypersensitivity to linezolid or any of the other product components. (4.1) • Patients taking any monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) or within two weeks of taking an MAOI. (4.2) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Linezolid formulations are contraindicated for use in patients who have known hypersensitivity to linezolid or any of the other product components. ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity ZYVOX formulations are contraindicated for use in patients who have known hypersensitivity to linezolid or any of the other product components . ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Linezolid tablets are contraindicated for use in patients who have known hypersensitivity to linezolid or any of the other product components.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Monoamine oxidase inhibitors and potential for interaction with adrenergic and serotonergic agents. ( 4.2 , 5.3 , 5.6 , 7 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Linezolid is a reversible, nonselective inhibitor of monoamine oxidase [see Contraindications ( 4.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.2 Adrenergic and Serotonergic Agents Linezolid has the potential for interaction with adrenergic and serotonergic agents [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 , 5.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . ( 4.2 , 5.3 , 5.6 , 7 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Linezolid is a reversible, nonselective inhibitor of monoamine oxidase [ see Contraindications ( 4.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 7.2 Adrenergic and Serotonergic Agents Linezolid has the potential for interaction with adrenergic and serotonergic agents [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 , 5.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Linezolid is a reversible, nonselective inhibitor of monoamine oxidase [ see Contraindications ( 4.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. ( 4.2 , 5.3 , 5.6 , 7 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Linezolid is a reversible, nonselective inhibitor of monoamine oxidase [ see Contraindications (4.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 Adrenergic and Serotonergic Agents Linezolid has the potential for interaction with adrenergic and serotonergic agents [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3 , 5.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Drug Interactions Drugs Metabolized by Cytochrome P450 Linezolid is not an inducer of cytochrome P450 (CYP450) in rats. In addition, linezolid does not inhibit the activities of clinically significant human CYP isoforms (e.g., 1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1, 3A4). Therefore, linezolid is not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of other drugs metabolized by these major enzymes. Concurrent administration of linezolid does not substantially alter the pharmacokinetic characteristics of (S)-warfarin, which is extensively metabolized by CYP2C9. Drugs such as warfarin and phenytoin, which are CYP2C9 substrates, may be given with linezolid without changes in dosage regimen. Antibacterial Drugs Aztreonam : The pharmacokinetics of linezolid or aztreonam are not altered when administered together. Gentamicin : The pharmacokinetics of linezolid or gentamicin are not altered when administered together. Antioxidants The potential for drug-drug interactions with linezolid and the antioxidants Vitamin C and Vitamin E was studied in healthy volunteers. Subjects were administered a 600 mg oral dose of linezolid on Day 1, and another 600 mg dose of linezolid on Day 8. On Days 2–9, subjects were given either Vitamin C (1,000 mg/day) or Vitamin E (800 IU/ day). The AUC 0–∞ of linezolid increased 2.3% when co-administered with Vitamin C and 10.9% when co-administered with Vitamin E. No linezolid dose adjustment is recommended during co-administration with Vitamin C or Vitamin E. Strong CYP 3A4 Inducers Rifampin: The effect of rifampin on the pharmacokinetics of linezolid was evaluated in a study of 16 healthy adult males. Volunteers were administered oral linezolid 600 mg twice daily for 5 doses with and without rifampin 600 mg once daily for 8 days. Co-administration of rifampin with linezolid resulted in a 21% decrease in linezolid C max [90% CI, 15% – 27%] and a 32% decrease in linezolid AUC 0–12 [90% CI, 27% – 37%]. The clinical significance of this interaction is unknown. The mechanism of this interaction is not fully understood and may be related to the induction of hepatic enzymes. Other strong inducers of hepatic enzymes (e.g. carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital) could cause a similar or smaller decrease in linezolid exposure. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibition Linezolid is a reversible, nonselective inhibitor of monoamine oxidase. Therefore, linezolid has the potential for interaction with adrenergic and serotonergic agents. Adrenergic Agents Some individuals receiving linezolid may experience a reversible enhancement of the pressor response to indirect-acting sympathomimetic agents, vasopressor or dopaminergic agents. Commonly used drugs such as phenylpropanolamine and pseudoephedrine have been specifically studied. Initial doses of adrenergic agents, such as dopamine or epinephrine, should be reduced and titrated to achieve the desired response. Tyramine: A significant pressor response has been observed in normal adult subjects receiving linezolid and tyramine doses of more than 100 mg. Therefore, patients receiving linezolid need to avoid consuming large amounts of foods or beverages with high tyramine content [ see Patient Counseling Information (17) ]. Pseudoephedrine HCl or phenylpropanolamine HCl: A reversible enhancement of the pressor response of either pseudoephedrine HCl (PSE) or phenylpropanolamine HCl (PPA) is observed when linezolid is administered to healthy normotensive subjects [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) and Drug Interactions (7) ]. A similar study has not been conducted in hypertensive patients. The interaction studies conducted in normotensive subjects evaluated the blood pressure and heart rate effects of placebo, PPA or PSE alone, linezolid alone, and the combination of steady-state linezolid (600 mg every 12 hours for 3 days) with two doses of PPA (25 mg) or PSE (60 mg) given 4 hours apart. Heart rate was not affected by any of the treatments. Blood pressure was increased with both combination treatments. Maximum blood pressure levels were seen 2 to 3 hours after the second dose of PPA or PSE, and returned to baseline 2 to 3 hours after peak. The results of the PPA study follow, showing the mean (and range) maximum systolic blood pressure in mm Hg: placebo = 121 (103 to 158); linezolid alone = 120 (107 to 135); PPA alone = 125 (106 to 139); PPA with linezolid = 147 (129 to 176). The results from the PSE study were similar to those in the PPA study. The mean maximum increase in systolic blood pressure over baseline was 32 mm Hg (range: 20–52 mm Hg) and 38 mm Hg (range: 18–79 mm Hg) during co-administration of linezolid with pseudoephedrine or phenylpropanolamine, respectively. Serotonergic Agents Dextromethorphan: The potential drug-drug interaction with dextromethorphan was studied in healthy volunteers. Subjects were administered dextromethorphan (two 20-mg doses given 4 hours apart) with or without linezolid. No serotonin syndrome effects (confusion, delirium, restlessness, tremors, blushing, diaphoresis, hyperpyrexia) have been observed in normal subjects receiving linezolid and dextromethorphan. ( 4.2 , 5.3 , 5.6 , 7 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Linezolid is a reversible, nonselective inhibitor of monoamine oxidase. [see Contraindications ( 4.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.2 Adrenergic and Serotonergic Agents Linezolid has the potential for interaction with adrenergic and serotonergic agents. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 , 5.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.2 Adrenergic and Serotonergic Agents Linezolid has the potential for interaction with adrenergic and serotonergic agents [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3 , 5.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 Adrenergic and Serotonergic Agents Linezolid has the potential for interaction with adrenergic and serotonergic agents [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 , 5.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ].

=== MEDROXYPROGESTERONE ACETATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension is indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. Limitations of Use: The use of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension is not recommended as a long-term (i.e., longer than 2 years) birth control method unless other options are considered inadequate [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Medroxyprogesterone acetate is a progestin indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. (1) Limitations of Use: The use of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension is not recommended as a long-term (i.e., longer than 2 years) birth control method unless other options are considered inadequate. (1, 5.1) Medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension is a progestin indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use: The use of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension is not recommended as a long-term (i.e., longer than 2 years) birth control method unless other options are considered inadequate. ( 1 , 5.1 ) Limitations of Use : The use of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension is not recommended as a long-term (i.e., longer than 2 years) birth control method unless other options are considered inadequate [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Limitations of Use : The use of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension is not recommended as a long-term (i.e., longer than 2 years) birth control method unless other options are considered inadequate [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use : The use of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension is not recommended as a long-term (i.e., longer than 2 years) birth control method unless other options are considered inadequate. ( 1 , 5.1 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Medroxyprogesterone acetate tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of secondary amenorrhea and abnormal uterine bleeding due to hormonal imbalance in the absence of organic pathology, such as fibroids or uterine cancer. They are also indicated for use in the prevention of endometrial hyperplasia in nonhysterectomized postmenopausal women who are receiving daily oral conjugated estrogens 0.625 mg tablets. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Tablets USP are indicated for the treatment of secondary amenorrhea and abnormal uterine bleeding due to hormonal imbalance in the absence of organic pathology, such as fibroids or uterine cancer. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Depo-Provera CI is indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. Depo-Provera CI is a progestin indicated for use by females of reproductive potential to prevent pregnancy. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use: The use of Depo-Provera CI is not recommended as a long-term (i.e., longer than 2 years) birth control method unless other options are considered inadequate. (1, 5.1) Limitations of Use : The use of Depo-Provera CI is not recommended as a long-term (i.e., longer than 2 years) birth control method unless other options are considered inadequate [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Limitations of Use: The use of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension is not recommended as a long-term (i.e., longer than 2 years) birth control method unless other options are considered inadequate [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Medroxyprogesterone acetate tablets are indicated for the treatment of secondary amenorrhea and abnormal uterine bleeding due to hormonal imbalance in the absence of organic pathology, such as fibroids or uterine cancer.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose is 150 mg of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension every 3 months (13 weeks) administered by deep, intramuscular (IM) injection in the gluteal or deltoid muscle. (2.1) 2.1 Prevention of Pregnancy The 1 mL prefilled syringe of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension should be vigorously shaken just before use to ensure that the dose being administered represents a uniform suspension. The recommended dose is 150 mg of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension every 3 months (13 weeks) administered by deep intramuscular (IM) injection using strict aseptic technique in the gluteal or deltoid muscle, rotating the sites with every injection. As with any IM injection, to avoid an inadvertent subcutaneous injection, body habitus should be assessed prior to each injection to determine if a longer needle is necessary particularly for gluteal IM injection. Use for longer than 2 years is not recommended (unless other birth control methods are considered inadequate) due to the impact of long-term medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension treatment on bone mineral density (BMD) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . Dosage does not need to be adjusted for body weight [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . To ensure the patient is not pregnant at the time of the first injection, the first injection should be given ONLY during the first 5 days of a normal menstrual period; ONLY within the first 5-days postpartum if not breast-feeding; and if exclusively breast-feeding, ONLY at the sixth postpartum week. If the time interval between injections is greater than 13 weeks, the physician should determine that the patient is not pregnant before administering the drug. The efficacy of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension depends on adherence to the dosage schedule of administration. 2.2 Switching From Other Methods of Contraception When switching from other contraceptive methods, medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension should be given in a manner that ensures continuous contraceptive coverage based upon the mechanism of action of both methods, (e.g., patients switching from oral contraceptives should have their first injection of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension on the day after the last active tablet or at the latest, on the day following the final inactive tablet). ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Prevention of Pregnancy The 1 mL vial of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension should be vigorously shaken just before use to ensure that the dose being administered represents a uniform suspension. Use for longer than 2 years is not recommended (unless other birth control methods are considered inadequate) due to the impact of long-term medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension treatment on bone mineral density (BMD) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Dosage does not need to be adjusted for body weight [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Prevention of Pregnancy Both the 1 mL vial and the 1 mL prefilled syringe of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension should be vigorously shaken just before use to ensure that the dose being administered represents a uniform suspension. To ensure the patient is not pregnant at the time of the first injection, the first injection should be given ONLY during the first 5 days of a normal menstrual period or within the first 5-days post-partum. In post-partum mothers who exclusively breastfeed, administer medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension during or after the sixth post-partum week. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Secondary Amenorrhea Medroxyprogesterone acetate tablets may be given in dosages of 5 or 10 mg daily for 5 to 10 days. A dose for inducing an optimum secretory transformation of an endometrium that has been adequately primed with either endogenous or exogenous estrogen is 10 mg of medroxyprogesterone acetate daily for 10 days. In cases of secondary amenorrhea, therapy may be started at any time. Progestin withdrawal bleeding usually occurs within three to seven days after discontinuing medroxyprogesterone acetate therapy. Abnormal Uterine Bleeding Due to Hormonal Imbalance in the Absence of Organic Pathology Beginning on the calculated 16th or 21st day of the menstrual cycle, 5 or 10 mg of medroxyprogesterone acetate may be given daily for 5 to 10 days. To produce an optimum secretory transformation of an endometrium that has been adequately primed with either endogenous or exogenous estrogen, 10 mg of medroxyprogesterone acetate daily for 10 days beginning on the 16th day of the cycle is suggested. Progestin withdrawal bleeding usually occurs within three to seven days after discontinuing therapy with medroxyprogesterone acetate. Patients with a past history of recurrent episodes of abnormal uterine bleeding may benefit from planned menstrual cycling with medroxyprogesterone acetate. Reduction of Endometrial Hyperplasia in Postmenopausal Women Receiving Daily 0.625 mg Conjugated Estrogens When estrogen is prescribed for a postmenopausal woman with a uterus, a progestin should also be initiated to reduce the risk of endometrial cancer. A woman without a uterus does not need progestin. Use of estrogen, alone or in combination with a progestin, should be with the lowest effective dose and for the shortest duration consistent with treatment goals and risks for the individual woman. Patients should be re-evaluated periodically as clinically appropriate (for example, 3 to 6 month intervals) to determine if treatment is still necessary (see WARNINGS ). For women who have a uterus, adequate diagnostic measures, such as endometrial sampling, when indicated, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in cases of undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal vaginal bleeding. Medroxyprogesterone acetate tablets may be given in dosages of 5 or 10 mg daily for 12 to 14 consecutive days per month, in postmenopausal women receiving daily 0.625 mg conjugated estrogens, either beginning on the 1st day of the cycle or the 16th day of the cycle. Patients should be started at the lowest dose. The lowest effective dose of medroxyprogesterone acetate has not been determined. Patients should be re-evaluated periodically as clinically appropriate (for example, 3 to 6 month intervals) to determine if treatment is still necessary ( see WARNINGS ). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose is 150 mg of Depo-Provera CI every 3 months (13 weeks) administered by deep, intramuscular (IM) injection in the gluteal or deltoid muscle. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Prevention of Pregnancy Both the 1 mL vial and the 1 mL prefilled syringe of Depo-Provera CI should be vigorously shaken just before use to ensure that the dose being administered represents a uniform suspension. The recommended dose is 150 mg of Depo-Provera CI every 3 months (13 weeks) administered by deep intramuscular (IM) injection using strict aseptic technique in the gluteal or deltoid muscle, rotating the sites with every injection. Use for longer than 2 years is not recommended (unless other birth control methods are considered inadequate) due to the impact of long-term Depo-Provera CI treatment on bone mineral density (BMD) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . To ensure the patient is not pregnant at the time of the first injection, the first injection should be given ONLY during the first 5 days of a normal menstrual period or within the first 5-days post‑partum. In post‑partum mothers who exclusively breastfeed, administer Depo‑Provera CI during or after the sixth post‑partum week. The efficacy of Depo-Provera CI depends on adherence to the dosage schedule of administration. 2.2 Switching from Other Methods of Contraception When switching from other contraceptive methods, Depo-Provera CI should be given in a manner that ensures continuous contraceptive coverage based upon the mechanism of action of both methods, (e.g., patients switching from oral contraceptives should have their first injection of Depo-Provera CI on the day after the last active tablet or at the latest, on the day following the final inactive tablet). ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Prevention of Pregnancy 1 mL vial of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension should be vigorously shaken just before use to ensure that the dose being administered represents a uniform suspension. In post-partum mothers who exclusively breastfeed, administer medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable during or after the sixth post-partum week. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Secondary Amenorrhea MPA tablets may be given in dosages of 5 or 10 mg daily for 5 to 10 days. A dose for inducing an optimum secretory transformation of an endometrium that has been adequately primed with either endogenous or exogenous estrogen is 10 mg of MPA daily for 10 days. Progestin withdrawal bleeding usually occurs within three to seven days after discontinuing MPA therapy. Progestin withdrawal bleeding usually occurs within three to seven days after discontinuing therapy with MPA tablets. Patients with a past history of recurrent episodes of abnormal uterine bleeding may benefit from planned menstrual cycling with MPA tablets. MPA tablets may be given in dosages of 5 or 10 mg daily for 12 to 14 consecutive days per month, in postmenopausal women receiving daily 0.625 mg conjugated estrogens, either beginning on the 1st day of the cycle or the 16th day of the cycle. The lowest effective dose of MPA has not been determined.
Warnings: WARNINGS See BOXED WARNINGS . 1. Cardiovascular Disorders. An increased risk of PE, DVT, stroke, and MI has been reported with estrogen plus progestin therapy. Should any of these events occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. Risk factors for arterial vascular disease (for example, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, tobacco use, hypercholesterolemia, and obesity) and/or venous thromboembolism (VTE) (for example, personal history or family history of VTE, obesity, and systemic lupus erythematosus) should be managed appropriately. a. Stroke In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant increased risk of stroke was reported in women 50 to 79 years of age receiving CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women in the same age group receiving placebo (33 versus 25 per 10,000 women-years). (See CLINICAL STUDIES . ) The increase in risk was demonstrated after the first year and persisted. Should a stroke occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. b. Coronary Heart Disease In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, there was a statistically non-significant increased risk of CHD events reported in women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (41 versus 34 per 10,000 women-years). An increase in relative risk was demonstrated in year 1, and a trend toward decreasing relative risk was reported in years 2 through 5. In postmenopausal women with documented heart disease (n = 2,763, average 66.7 years of age), in a controlled clinical trial of secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease (Heart and Estrogen/Progestin Replacement Study [HERS]), treatment with daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) demonstrated no cardiovascular benefit. During an average follow-up of 4.1 years, treatment with CE plus MPA did not reduce the overall rate of CHD events in postmenopausal women with established coronary heart disease. There were more CHD events in the CE plus MPA-treated group than in the placebo group in year 1, but not during the subsequent years. Two thousand three hundred and twenty-one (2,321) women from the original HERS trial agreed to participate in an open label extension of HERS, HERS II. Average follow-up in HERS II was an additional 2.7 years, for a total of 6.8 years overall. Rates of CHD events were comparable among women in the CE plus MPA group and the placebo group in HERS, HERS II, and overall. c. Venous Thromboembolism In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant 2-fold greater rate of VTE (DVT and PE) was reported in women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (35 versus 17 per 10,000 women-years). Statistically significant increases in risk for both DVT (26 versus 13 per 10,000 women-years) and PE (18 versus 8 per 10,000 women-years) were also demonstrated. The increase in VTE risk was demonstrated during the first year and persisted. (See CLINICAL STUDIES ). Should a VTE occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. If feasible, estrogens plus progestins should be discontinued at least 4 to 6 weeks before surgery of the type associated with an increased risk of thromboembolism, or during periods of prolonged immobilization. 2. Malignant Neoplasms a. Breast Cancer The WHI substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone provided information about breast cancer in estrogen-alone users. In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, after an average follow-up of 7.1 years, daily CE-alone was not associated with an increased risk of invasive breast cancer [relative risk (RR) 0.80] compared to placebo (see CLINICAL STUDIES ). After a mean follow-up of 5.6 years, the estrogen plus progestin substudy reported an increased risk of invasive breast cancer in women who took daily CE plus MPA. In this substudy, prior use of estrogen-alone or estrogen plus progestin therapy was reported by 26 percent of the women. The relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.24, and the absolute risk was 41 versus 33 cases per 10,000 women-years, for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. Among women who reported prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.86, and the absolute risk was 46 versus 25 cases per 10,000 women-years, for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. Among women who reported no prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.09, and the absolute risk was 40 versus 36 cases per 10,000 women-years, for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. In the same substudy, invasive breast cancers were larger, were more likely to be node positive, and were diagnosed at a more advanced stage in the CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) group compared with the placebo group. Metastatic disease was rare with no apparent difference between the two groups. Other prognostic factors such as histologic subtype, grade, and hormone receptor status did not differ between the groups. ) Consistent with the WHI clinical trials, observational studies have also reported an increased risk of breast cancer for estrogen plus progestin therapy, and a smaller, increased risk for estrogen-alone therapy, after several years of use. One large meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies reported increased risks that were dependent upon duration of use and could last up to >10 years after discontinuation of estrogen plus progestin therapy and estrogen-alone therapy. Extension of the WHI trials also demonstrated increased breast cancer risk associated with estrogen plus progestin therapy. Observational studies also suggest that the risk of breast cancer was greater, and became apparent earlier, with estrogen plus progestin therapy as compared to estrogen-alone therapy. However, these studies have not found significant variation in the risk of breast cancer among different estrogen plus progestin combinations, or routes of administration. The use of estrogen-alone and estrogen plus progestin has been reported to result in an increase in abnormal mammograms requiring further evaluation. All women should receive yearly breast examinations by a healthcare provider and perform monthly breast self-examinations. In addition, mammography examinations should be scheduled based on patient age, risk factors, and prior mammogram results. Endometrial Cancer An increased risk of endometrial cancer has been reported with the use of unopposed estrogen therapy in women with a uterus. The reported endometrial cancer risk among unopposed estrogen users is about 2 to 12 times greater than in non-users, and appears dependent on duration of treatment and on estrogen dose. Most studies show no significant increased risk associated with the use of estrogens for less than 1 year. The greatest risk appears associated with prolonged use, with increased risks of 15- to 24-fold for 5 to 10 years or more. This risk has been shown to persist for at least 8 to 15 years after estrogen therapy is discontinued. Clinical surveillance of all women using estrogen plus progestin therapy is important. Adequate diagnostic measures, including endometrial sampling when indicated, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in all cases of undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding. There is no evidence that the use of natural estrogens results in a different endometrial risk profile than synthetic estrogens of equivalent estrogen dose. Adding a progestin to estrogen therapy has been shown to reduce the risk of endometrial hyperplasia, which may be a precursor to endometrial cancer. Ovarian Cancer The WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy reported a statistically non-significant increased risk of ovarian cancer. After an average follow-up of 5.6 years, the relative risk for ovarian cancer for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 1.58 (95 percent CI, 0.77 to 3.24). The absolute risk for CE plus MPA was 4 versus 3 cases per 10,000 women-years. In some epidemiologic studies, the use of estrogen plus progestin and estrogen-only products, in particular for 5 or more years, has been associated with increased risk of ovarian cancer. However, the duration of exposure associated with increased risk is not consistent across all epidemiologic studies and some report no association. 3. Probable Dementia In the WHIMS estrogen plus progestin ancillary study of WHI, a population of 4,532 postmenopausal women aged 65 to 79 years was randomized to daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) or placebo. After an average follow-up of 4 years, 40 women in the CE plus MPA group and 21 women in the placebo group were diagnosed with probable dementia. The relative risk of probable dementia for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 2.05 (95 percent CI, 1.21 to 3.48). The absolute risk of probable dementia for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 45 versus 22 cases per 10,000 women-years. It is unknown whether these findings apply to younger postmenopausal women. (See CLINICAL STUDIES and PRECAUTIONS , Geriatric Use . ) 4. Visual Abnormalities Discontinue estrogen plus progestin therapy pending examination if there is sudden partial or complete loss of vision, or a sudden onset of proptosis, diplopia or migraine. If examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be permanently discontinued. In postmenopausal women with documented heart disease (n = 2,763, average 66.7 years of age), in a controlled clinical trial of secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease (Heart and Estrogen/Progestin Replacement Study [HERS]), treatment with daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5mg) demonstrated no cardiovascular benefit. Venous Thromboembolism In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant 2-fold greater rate of VTE, (DVT and PE), was reported in women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (35 versus 17 per 10,000 women-years). ( See CLINICAL STUDIES .) Should a VTE occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. Breast Cancer The most important randomized clinical trial providing information about breast cancer in estrogen plus progestin users is the WHI substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg). ) Consistent with the WHI clinical trial, observational studies have also reported an increased risk of breast cancer for estrogen plus progestin therapy, and a smaller risk for estrogen-alone therapy, after several years of use. The risk increased with duration of use, and appeared to return to baseline over about 5 years after stopping treatment (only the observational studies have substantial data on risk after stopping). The use of estrogen plus progestin has been reported to result in an increase in abnormal mammograms requiring further evaluation. Cardiovascular Disorders An increased risk of PE, DVT, stroke, and MI has been reported with estrogen plus progestin therapy. (See CLINICAL STUDIES .)The increase in risk was demonstrated after the first year and persisted. Venous Thromboembolism In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy a statistically significant 2-fold greater rate of VTE (DVT and PE) was reported in women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (35 versus 17 per 10,000 women-years). Statistically significant increases in risk for both DVT (26 versus 13 per 10,000 women-years) and PE (18 versus 8 per 10000 women-years) were also demonstrated. (See CLINICAL STUDIES .) Should a VTE occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. Breast Cancer The WHI substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone provided information about breast cancer in estrogen‑alone users. In the WHI estrogen‑alone substudy, after an average follow-up of 7.1 years, daily CE‑alone was not associated with an increased risk of invasive breast cancer [relative risk (RR) 0.80] compared to placebo (see CLINICAL STUDIES .) After a mean follow-up of 5.6 years, the estrogen plus progestin substudy reported an increased risk of invasive breast cancer in women who took daily CE plus MPA. In this substudy, prior use of estrogen alone or estrogen plus progestin therapy was reported by 26 percent of the women. In the same substudy, invasive breast cancers were larger , were more likely to be node positive, and were diagnosed at a more advanced stage in the CE(0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) group compared with the placebo group. (See CLINICAL STUDIES .) Consistent with the WHI clinical trials, observational studies have also reported an increased risk of breast cancer for estrogen plus progestin therapy, and a smaller, increased risk for estrogen-alone therapy, after several years of use. One large meta‑analysis of prospective cohort studies reported increased risks that were dependent upon duration of use and could last up to >10 years after discontinuation of estrogen plus progestin therapy and estrogen-alone therapy. The reported endometrial cancer risk among unopposed estrogen users is about 2- to 12 times greater than in non-users, and appears dependent on duration of treatment and on estrogen dose. After an average follow-up of 5.6 years, the relative risk for ovarian cancer for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 1.58 (95 percent CI, 0.77–3.24). Probable Dementia In the WHIMS estrogen plus progestin ancillary study, of WHI, a population of 4,532 postmenopausal women aged 65 to 79 years was randomized to daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) or placebo. The relative risk of probable dementia for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 2.05 (95 percent CI, 1.21–3.48). (See CLINICAL STUDIES and PRECAUTIONS, Geriatric Use .) 4.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension is contraindicated in the following conditions: Known or suspected pregnancy or as a diagnostic test for pregnancy. Active thrombophlebitis, or current or past history of thromboembolic disorders, or cerebral vascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. Known or suspected malignancy of breast [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ]. Known hypersensitivity to medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension or any of its other ingredients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ]. Significant liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5. 7) ]. Undiagnosed vaginal bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5. 10) ]. Known or suspected pregnancy or as a diagnostic test for pregnancy. ( 4 ) Active thrombophlebitis, or current or past history of thromboembolic disorders, or cerebral vascular disease. ( 4 ) Known or suspected malignancy of breast. ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension or any of its other ingredients. ( 4 ) Significant liver disease. ( 4 ) Undiagnosed vaginal bleeding. ( 4 ) Active thrombophlebitis, or current or past history of thromboembolic disorders, or cerebral vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Known or suspected malignancy of breast [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Known hypersensitivity to medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension or any of its other ingredients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Significant liver disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . Undiagnosed vaginal bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] . ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension (medroxyprogesterone acetate or any of its other ingredients). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension is contraindicated in the following conditions: Active thrombophlebitis, or current or history of thromboembolic disorders, or cerebral vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Known hypersensitivity to medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension or any of its other ingredients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . Significant liver disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . Undiagnosed vaginal bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] . Active thrombophlebitis, or current or past history of thromboembolic disorders, or cerebral vascular disease. CONTRAINDICATIONS Medroxyprogesterone acetate is contraindicated in women with any of the following conditions: Undiagnosed abnormal genital bleeding. Known, suspected, or history of breast cancer. Known or suspected estrogen- or progesterone-dependent neoplasia. Active DVT, PE, or a history of these conditions Active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and MI), or a history of these conditions. Known anaphylactic reaction or angioedema to medroxyprogesterone acetate. Known liver impairment or disease. Known or suspected pregnancy. CONTRAINDICATIONS Medroxyprogesterone acetate is contraindicated in women with any of the following conditions: • Undiagnosed abnormal genital bleeding. • Known, suspected, or history of breast cancer. • Known or suspected estrogen- or progesterone-dependent neoplasia. • Active DVT, PE, or a history of these conditions • Active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and MI), or a history of these conditions. • Known anaphylactic reaction or angioedema to medroxyprogesterone acetate. • Known liver impairment or disease. • Known or suspected pregnancy. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of Depo-Provera CI is contraindicated in the following conditions: • Active thrombophlebitis, or current or history of thromboembolic disorders, or cerebral vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . • Known or suspected malignancy of breast [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . • Known hypersensitivity to Depo-Provera CI (medroxyprogesterone acetate) or any of its other ingredients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . • Significant liver disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . • Undiagnosed vaginal bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] . • Active thrombophlebitis, or current or past history of thromboembolic disorders, or cerebral vascular disease. ( 4 ) • Known or suspected malignancy of breast. ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to Depo-Provera CI (medroxyprogesterone acetate or any of its other ingredients). ( 4 ) • Significant liver disease. ( 4 ) • Undiagnosed vaginal bleeding. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of medroxyprogesterone acetate is contraindicated in the following conditions: Active thrombophlebitis, or current or history of thromboembolic disorders, or cerebral vascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . CONTRAINDICATIONS MPA tablets is contraindicated in women with any of the following conditions: 1. Undiagnosed abnormal genital bleeding. 2. 3. 4. Active DVT, PE, or a history of these conditions. 5. Active arterial thromboembolic disease (for example, stroke and MI), or a history of these conditions. 6. Known anaphylactic reaction or angioedema to MPA. 7. 8.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, including CYP3A4, may decrease the effectiveness of contraceptive drug products. Counsel patients to use a back-up method or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Changes in Contraceptive Effectiveness Associated With Co-Administration of Other Products If a woman on hormonal contraceptives takes a drug or herbal product that induces enzymes, including CYP3A4, that metabolize contraceptive hormones, counsel her to use additional contraception or a different method of contraception. Drugs or herbal products that induce such enzymes may decrease the plasma concentrations of contraceptive hormones, and may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives. Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include: barbiturates bosentan carbamazepine felbamate griseofulvin oxcarbazepine phenytoin rifampin St. John’s wort topiramate HIV protease inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors : Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma levels of progestin have been noted in some cases of coadministration of HIV protease inhibitors. Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma levels of the progestin have been noted in some cases of co-administration with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors. Antibiotics : There have been reports of pregnancy while taking hormonal contraceptives and antibiotics, but clinical pharmacokinetic studies have not shown consistent effects of antibiotics on plasma concentrations of synthetic steroids. Consult the labeling of all concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations. 7.2 Laboratory Test Interactions The pathologist should be advised of progestin therapy when relevant specimens are submitted. The following laboratory tests may be affected by progestins including medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension: (a) Plasma and urinary steroid levels are decreased (e.g., progesterone, estradiol, pregnanediol, testosterone, cortisol). (b) Gonadotropin levels are decreased. (c) Sex-hormone-binding-globulin concentrations are decreased. (d) Protein-bound iodine and butanol extractable protein-bound iodine may increase. T3-uptake values may decrease. (e) Coagulation test values for prothrombin (Factor II), and Factors VII, VIII, IX, and X may increase. (f) Sulfobromophthalein and other liver function test values may be increased. (g) The effects of medroxyprogesterone acetate on lipid metabolism are inconsistent. Both increases and decreases in total cholesterol, triglycerides, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol have been observed in studies. John's wort topiramate HIV protease inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors : Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma levels of progestin have been noted in some cases of co-administration of HIV protease inhibitors. Consult the labeling of all concurrently-used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations. The following laboratory tests may be affected by progestins including medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension: Plasma and urinary steroid levels are decreased (e.g., progesterone, estradiol, pregnanediol, testosterone, cortisol). Gonadotropin levels are decreased. Sex-hormone-binding-globulin concentrations are decreased. Protein-bound iodine and butanol extractable protein-bound iodine may increase. T 3 -uptake values may decrease. Coagulation test values for prothrombin (Factor II), and Factors VII, VIII, IX, and X may increase. Sulfobromophthalein and other liver function test values may be increased. The effects of medroxyprogesterone acetate on lipid metabolism are inconsistent. John’s wort topiramate HIV protease inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors : Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma levels of progestin have been noted in some cases of co-administration of HIV protease inhibitors. Counsel patients to use a back-up method or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with Depo-Provera CI. Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include: • barbiturates • bosentan • carbamazepine • felbamate • griseofulvin • oxcarbazepine • phenytoin • rifampin • St. John's wort • topiramate HIV protease inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors : Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma levels of progestin have been noted in some cases of co-administration of HIV protease inhibitors. The following laboratory tests may be affected by progestins including Depo-Provera CI: (a) Plasma and urinary steroid levels are decreased (e.g., progesterone, estradiol, pregnanediol, testosterone, cortisol). Counsel patients to use a back-up method or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with medroxyprogesterone acetate. The following laboratory tests may be affected by progestins including medroxyprogesterone acetate: (a) Plasma and urinary steroid levels are decreased (e.g., progesterone, estradiol, pregnanediol, testosterone, cortisol).

=== METHADONE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE 1. Methadone Hydrochloride Injection is indicated for the management of severe and persistent pain that requires an opioid analgesic and that cannot be adequately treated with alternative options, including immediate-release opioids. Limitations of Use • Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosage or duration (see WARNINGS ), and persist over the course of therapy, reserve opioid analgesics, including Methadone Hydrochloride Injection, for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. • Methadone Hydrochloride Injection is not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesic. 2. For use in temporary treatment of opioid dependence in patients unable to take oral medication. Limitations of Use • Injectable methadone products are not approved for the outpatient treatment of opioid dependence. In this patient population, parenteral methadone is to be used only for patients unable to take oral medication, such as hospitalized patients. Conditions for Distribution and Use of Methadone Products for the Treatment of Opioid Addiction Code of Federal Regulations, Title 42, Sec 8. Methadone products when used for the treatment of opioid addiction in detoxification or maintenance programs, shall be dispensed only by opioid treatment programs (and agencies, practitioners or institutions by formal agreement with the program sponsor) certified by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration and approved by the designated state authority. Certified treatment programs shall dispense and use methadone in oral form only and according to the treatment requirements stipulated in the Federal Opioid Treatment Standards (42 CFR 8.12). See below for important regulatory exceptions to the general requirement for certification to provide opioid agonist treatment. Failure to abide by the requirements in these regulations may result in criminal prosecution, seizure of the drug supply, revocation of the program approval, and injunction precluding operation of the program. Regulatory Exceptions to the General Requirement for Certification to Provide Opioid Agonist Treatment: During inpatient care, when the patient was admitted for any condition other than concurrent opioid addiction (pursuant to 21CFR 1306.07(c)), to facilitate the treatment of the primary admitting diagnosis. During an emergency period of no longer than 3 days while definitive care for the addiction is being sought in an appropriately licensed facility (pursuant to 21CFR 1306.07(b)). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methadone Hydrochloride contains methadone, an opioid agonist indicated for the: detoxification treatment of opioid addiction (heroin or other morphine-like drugs). maintenance treatment of opioid addiction (heroin or other morphine-like drugs), in conjunction with appropriate social and medical services. Limitations of Use Methadone products used for the treatment of opioid addiction in detoxification or maintenance programs are subject to the conditions for distribution and use required under 21 CFR, Title 42, Sec 8 [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )] . Methadone Hydrochloride is an opioid agonist indicated for the: Detoxification treatment of opioid addiction (heroin or other morphine-like drugs). ( 1 ) Maintenance treatment of opioid addiction (heroin or other morphine-like drugs), in conjunction with appropriate social and medical services. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use Methadone products used for the treatment of opioid addiction in detoxification or maintenance programs are subject to the conditions for distribution and use required under 21 CFR, Title 42, Sec. 8. ( 1 , 2.1 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methadone Hydrochloride Injection is indicated for the management of severe and persistent pain that requires an extended treatment period with a daily opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration, and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with extended-release/long-acting opioid formulations, (see WARNINGS ) reserve Methadone Hydrochloride Injection for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., nonopioid analgesics or immediate-release opioids) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. Methadone Hydrochloride Injection is not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesic. Limitations of Use Injectable methadone products are not approved for the outpatient treatment of opioid dependence. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methadone hydrochloride oral concentrate contains methadone, an opioid agonist indicated for the: detoxification treatment of opioid addiction (heroin or other morphine-like drugs). Methadone hydrochloride oral concentrate is an opioid agonist indicated for the: Detoxification treatment of opioid addiction (heroin or other morphine-like drugs). ( 2.1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methadone hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the: 1. Management of severe and persistent pain that requires an extended treatment period with a daily opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] , reserve methadone hydrochloride tablets for use in patients for whom alternative analgesic treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. Methadone hydrochloride tablets are not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesic. Detoxification treatment of opioid addiction (heroin or other morphine-like drugs). 3. Limitations of Use Methadone products used for the treatment of opioid addiction in detoxification or maintenance programs are subject to the conditions for distribution and use required under 42 CFR 8.12 [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)]. Methadone hydrochloride tablets is an opioid agonist indicated for the: 1. Methadone hydrochloride tablets is indicated for the management of severe and persistent pain that requires an extended treatment period with a daily opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. (1) Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration, and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with extended-release/long-acting opioid, reserve methadone hydrochloride tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. (1) Methadone hydrochloride tablets are not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesic. (1) 2. (1) Limitations of Use Methadone products used for the treatment of opioid addiction in detoxification or maintenance programs are subject to the conditions for distribution and use required under 42 CFR 8.12 (2.1). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methadone hydrochloride tablets, USP are indicated for the: 1. Management of pain severe enough to require daily, around-the-clock, long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limitations of Use • Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses, and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with long-acting opioids [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] , reserve methadone hydrochloride tablets, USP for use in patients for whom alternative analgesic treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or immediate-release opioid analgesics) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. • Methadone hydrochloride tablets, USP are not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesic. Methadone hydrochloride tablets, USP is an opioid agonist indicated for the: 1. Limitations of Use • Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses, and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with long-acting opioids, reserve methadone hydrochloride for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or immediate-release opioids) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methadone hydrochloride tablets is indicated for the: Management of severe and persistent pain that requires an opioid analgesic and that cannot be adequately treated with alternative options, including immediate-release opioids. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosage or duration and persist over the course of therapy [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )], reserve opioid analgesics, including methadone hydrochloride tablets, for use in patients for whom alternative analgesic treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. ( 1 ) Detoxification treatment of opioid addiction (heroin or other morphine-like drugs). Limitations of Use Methadone products used for the treatment of opioid addiction in detoxification or maintenance programs are subject to the conditions for distribution and use required under 42 CFR 8.12 [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2.1 )]. Methadone hydrochloride tablet is indicated for the management of severe and persistent pain that requires an opioid analgesic and that cannot be adequately treated with alternative options, including immediate-release opioids. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosage or duration and persist over the course of therapy, reserve opioid analgesics, including methadone hydrochloride tablets, for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain ( 1 , 5.1 ) Methadone hydrochloride tablets are not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesic. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use Methadone products used for the treatment of opioid addiction in detoxification or maintenance program are subject to the conditions for distribution and use required under 42 CFR 8.12. Management of severe and persistent pain that requires an extended treatment with a daily opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )], reserve methadone hydrochloride tablets for use in patients for whom alternative analgesic treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. Methadone hydrochloride tablet is not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesic. Limitations of Use Methadone products used for the treatment of opioid addiction in detoxification or maintenance programs are subject to the conditions for distribution and use required under 42 CFR 8.12 [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )] . Methadone hydrochloride tablet is indicated for the management of severe and persistent pain that requires an extended treatment period with a daily opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. ( 1 ) L i mitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, which can occur at any dosage or duration, and because of the greater risks of overdose and death with extended-release/long-acting opioids, reserve methadone hydrochloride tablets for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid analgesics or opioid combination products) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. ( 1 ) Methadone hydrochloride tablet is not indicated as an as-needed (prn) analgesic. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use Methadone products used for the treatment of opioid addiction in detoxification or maintenance programs are subject to the conditions for distribution and use required under 42 CFR 8.12 ( 2.1) .
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important General Information Consider the following important factors that differentiate methadone from other opioids: • The peak respiratory depressant effect of methadone occurs later and persists longer than its peak pharmacologic effect. • A high degree of opioid tolerance does not eliminate the possibility of methadone overdose, iatrogenic or otherwise. Deaths have been reported during conversion to methadone from chronic, high-dose treatment with other opioid agonists and during initiation of methadone treatment of addiction in subjects previously abusing high doses of other opioid agonists. • There is high interpatient variability in absorption, metabolism, and relative analgesic potency. Population-based conversion ratios between methadone and other opioids are not accurate when applied to individuals. • With repeated dosing, methadone is retained in the liver and then slowly released, prolonging the duration of potential toxicity. • Steady-state plasma concentrations are not attained until 3 to 5 days after initiation of dosing . • Methadone has a narrow therapeutic index, especially when combined with other drugs. It is safer to underestimate a patient’s 24-hour methadone dosage and provide rescue medication (e.g., immediate-release opioid) than to overestimate the 24-hour methadone dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to an overdose. While useful tables of opioid equivalents are readily available, there is substantial inter-patient variability in the relative potency of different opioid drugs and products. Frequently reevaluate patients for signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal and for signs of oversedation/toxicity after converting patients to methadone. Methadone Hydrochloride Injection for Management of Pain Methadone Hydrochloride Injection should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of extended-release/long-acting opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Consider the following important factors that differentiate methadone from other opioid analgesics: • There is high interpatient variability in absorption, metabolism, and relative analgesic potency. Population-based equianalgesic conversion ratios between methadone and other opioids are not accurate when applied to individuals. • The duration of analgesic action of methadone is 4 to 8 hours (based on single-dose studies) but the plasma elimination half-life is 8 to 59 hours. • With repeated dosing, the potency of methadone increases due to systemic accumulation. • Steady-state plasma concentrations, and full analgesic effects, are not attained until at least 3 to 5 days on a dose and may take longer in some patients. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals (see WARNINGS ). Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of Methadone Hydrochloride Injection for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse (see WARNINGS ). Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with Methadone Hydrochloride Injection. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments (see WARNINGS ). Methadone Hydrochloride Injection multiple-dose vials may be administered intravenously, subcutaneously or intramuscularly. The absorption of subcutaneous and intramuscular methadone has not been well characterized and appears to be unpredictable. Local tissue reactions may occur. Parenteral products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Use of Parenteral Methadone in Patients who are not Opioid Tolerant When parenteral methadone is used in patients who are not tolerant to opioids, the usual intravenous methadone starting dose is 2.5 mg to 10 mg every 8 to 12 hours, slowly titrated to effect. More frequent administration may be required during methadone initiation in order to maintain adequate analgesia, and extreme caution is necessary to avoid overdosage, taking into account methadone's long elimination half-life. Conversion from Oral Methadone to Parenteral Methadone Conversion from oral methadone to parenteral methadone should initially use a 2:1 dose ratio (e.g., 10 mg oral methadone to 5 mg parenteral methadone). Conversion from other Opioid Analgesics to Parenteral Methadone Switching a patient from another opioid analgesic to methadone requires caution due to the uncertainty of dose conversion ratios and incomplete cross-tolerance. Deaths have occurred in opioid tolerant patients during conversion to methadone. The potency of methadone relative to other opioid analgesics is nonlinear and increases with increasing dose. Table 1 provides an estimated conversion factor for use when converting patients from another opioid to methadone. Because of the high inter-patient variability in absorption, metabolism, and relative potency, it is critical to avoid overestimating the methadone dose which can lead to fatal respiratory depression. The dose conversion scheme below is derived from various consensus guidelines for converting patients to methadone from morphine. The guidelines used to construct this table, however, were all designed for converting patients from oral morphine to oral methadone. The third column assumes a 2:1 ratio for converting from oral to intravenous methadone. Clinicians should consult published conversion guidelines to determine the equivalent morphine dose for patients converting from other opioids. Consider the following when using the information in Table 1: • This is not a table of equianalgesic doses. • The conversion factors in this table are only for the conversion from another oral opioid analgesic to methadone hydrochloride tablets. • The table cannot be used to convert from methadone hydrochloride tablets to another opioid. Doing so will result in an overestimation of the dose of the new opioid and may result in fatal overdose. Table 1. Oral Morphine to Intravenous Methadone Conversion Total Daily Baseline Oral Morphine Dose Estimated Daily Oral Methadone Requirement as Percent of Total Daily Morphine Dose Estimated Daily Intravenous Methadone as Percent of Total Daily Oral Morphine Dose The total daily methadone dose derived from the table above may then be divided to reflect the intended dosing schedule (i.e., for administration every 8 hours, divide total daily methadone dose by 3). Less than 100 mg 20% to 30% 10% to 15% 100 mg to 300 mg 10% to 20% 5% to 10% 300 mg to 600 mg 8% to 12% 4% to 6% 600 mg to 1000 mg 5% to 10% 3% to 5% Greater than 1000 mg Less than 5% Less than 3% Table 2. Parenteral Morphine to Intravenous Methadone Conversion (Derived from Table 1, Assuming a 3:1 Oral:Parenteral Morphine Ratio) Total Daily Baseline Parenteral Morphine Dose Estimated Daily Parenteral Methadone Requirement as Percent of Total Daily Morphine Dose The total daily methadone dose derived from the table above may then be divided to reflect the intended dosing schedule (i.e., for administration every 8 hours, divide total daily methadone dose by 3). 10 mg to 30 mg 40% to 66% 30 mg to 50 mg 27% to 66% 50 mg to 100 mg 22% to 50% 100 mg to 200 mg 15% to 34% 200 mg to 500 mg 10% to 20% Note: Equianalgesic methadone dosing varies not only between patients, but also within the same patient, depending on baseline morphine (or other opioid) dose. Tables 1 and 2 have been included in order to illustrate this concept and to provide a safe starting point for opioid conversion. Methadone dosing should not be based solely on these tables. Methadone conversion and dose titration methods should always be individualized to account for the patient's prior opioid exposure, general medical condition, concomitant medication, and anticipated breakthrough medication use. The endpoint of titration is achievement of adequate pain relief, balanced against tolerability of opioid side effects. If a patient develops intolerable opioid related side effects, the methadone dose, or dosing interval, may need to be decreased. Methadone Hydrochloride Injection for Treatment of Opioid Dependence Detoxification and Maintenance Treatment of Opioid Dependence For detoxification and maintenance of opiate dependence, methadone should be administered in accordance with the treatment standards cited in 42CFR Section 8.12, including limitations on unsupervised administration. Injectable methadone products are not approved for the outpatient treatment of opioid dependence. Parenteral methadone should be used only for patients who are unable to take oral medication, such as during hospitalization. The patient's oral methadone dose should be converted to an equivalent parenteral dose using the considerations above. Risk of Relapse in Patients on Methadone Maintenance Treatment of Opioid Addiction Abrupt opioid discontinuation can lead to development of opioid withdrawal symptoms (see PRECAUTIONS ). Presentation of these symptoms has been associated with an increased risk of susceptible patients to relapse to illicit drug use and should be considered when assessing the risks and benefit of methadone use. Considerations for Management of Acute Pain During Methadone Maintenance Treatment Maintenance patients on a stable dose of methadone who experience physical trauma, postoperative pain or other causes of acute pain cannot be expected to derive analgesia from their stable dose of methadone regimens. Such patients should be given analgesics, including opioids, that would be indicated in other patients experiencing similar nociceptive stimulation. Due to the opioid tolerance induced by methadone, when opioids are required for management of acute pain in methadone patients, somewhat higher and/or more frequent doses will often be required than would be the case for other, non-tolerant patients. Dosage Adjustment During Pregnancy Methadone clearance may be increased during pregnancy. During pregnancy, a woman's methadone dose may need to be increased, or the dosing interval decreased (see PRECAUTIONS: Pregnancy ). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Strongly consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent (e.g., naloxone, nalmefene) at the time Methadone Hydrochloride is initiated or renewed because patients being treated with methadone may be at risk for opioid overdose during initiation or titration, or in the case of relapse to illicit use. ( 2.3 ) Initiation of Detoxification and Maintenance Treatment : A single dose of 20 to 30 mg may be sufficient to suppress withdrawal syndrome. ( 2.4 ) Maintenance Treatment : Clinical stability is most commonly achieved at doses between 80 to 120 mg/day. ( 2.5 ) Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue Methadone Hydrochloride in a physically-dependent patient. ( 2.6 , 5.15 ) 2.1 Conditions for Distribution and Use of Methadone Products for the Treatment of Opioid Addiction Code of Federal Regulations, Title 42, Sec 8 : Methadone products when used for the treatment of opioid addiction in detoxification or maintenance programs, shall be dispensed only by opioid treatment programs (and agencies, practitioners or institutions by formal agreement with the program sponsor) certified by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration and approved by the designated state authority. Certified treatment programs shall dispense and use methadone in oral form only and according to the treatment requirements stipulated in the Federal Opioid Treatment Standards (42 CFR 8.12). See below for important regulatory exceptions to the general requirement for certification to provide opioid agonist treatment. Failure to abide by the requirements in these regulations may result in criminal prosecution, seizure of the drug supply, revocation of the program approval, and injunction precluding operation of the program. Regulatory Exceptions to the General Requirement for Certification to Provide Opioid Agonist Treatment During inpatient care, when the patient was admitted for any condition other than concurrent opioid addiction (pursuant to 21 CFR 1306.07(c)), to facilitate the treatment of the primary admitting diagnosis. During an emergency period of no longer than 3 days while definitive care for the addiction is being sought in an appropriately licensed facility (pursuant to 21 CFR 1306.07(b)). 2.2 Important Dosage and Administration Information Methadone Hydrochloride is for oral administration only. The preparation must not be injected. Package in child-resistant containers and inform patients that Methadone Hydrochloride should be kept out of reach of children to prevent accidental ingestion. Consider the following important factors that differentiate methadone from other opioids: The peak respiratory depressant effect of methadone occurs later and persists longer than its peak pharmacologic effect. A high degree of opioid tolerance does not eliminate the possibility of methadone overdose, iatrogenic or otherwise. There is high interpatient variability in absorption, metabolism, and relative analgesic potency. With repeated dosing, methadone is retained in the liver and then slowly released, prolonging the duration of potential toxicity. Steady-state plasma concentrations are not attained until 3 to 5 days after initiation of dosing. Methadone Hydrochloride has a narrow therapeutic index, especially when combined with other drugs. 2.3 Patient Access to an Opioid Overdose Reversal Agent for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Inform patients and caregivers about opioid overdose reversal agents (e.g., naloxone, nalmefene) and discuss the importance of having access to an opioid overdose reversal agent. Because patients being treated with methadone may be at risk for opioid overdose during initiation or titration, or in the case of relapse to illicit use, strongly consider recommending or prescribing an overdose reversal agent for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose, both when initiating and renewing treatment with Methadone Hydrochloride. Also consider recommending or prescribing such an agent if the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or opioid overdose [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Discuss the options for obtaining an opioid overdose reversal agent (e.g., prescription, over-the-counter, or as part of a community-based program) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . There are important differences among the opioid overdose reversal agents, such as route of administration, product strength, approved patient age range, and pharmacokinetics. Be familiar with these differences, as outlined in the approved labeling for those products, prior to recommending or prescribing such an agent. Advise patients and caregivers that opioid overdose reversal agents, such as naloxone or nalmefene may also be administered for a known or suspected overdose with Methadone Hydrochloride itself [see Overdosage ( 10 )] . 2.4 Induction/Initial Dosing for Detoxification and Maintenance Treatment of Opioid Addiction For detoxification and maintenance of opiate dependence, methadone should be administered in accordance with the treatment standards cited in 42 CFR Section 8.12, including limitations on unsupervised administration. Administer the initial methadone dose under supervision, when there are no signs of sedation or intoxication, and the patient shows symptoms of withdrawal. An initial single dose of 20 to 30 mg of methadone will often be sufficient to suppress withdrawal symptoms. The initial dose should not exceed 30 mg. To make same-day dosing adjustments, have the patient wait 2 to 4 hours for further evaluation, when peak levels have been reached. Provide an additional 5 to 10 mg of methadone if withdrawal symptoms have not been suppressed or if symptoms reappear. The total daily dose of methadone on the first day of treatment should not ordinarily exceed 40 mg. Adjust the dose over the first week of treatment based on control of withdrawal symptoms at the time of expected peak activity (i.e., 2 to 4 hours after dosing). When adjusting the dose, keep in mind that methadone will accumulate over the first several days of dosing; deaths have occurred in early treatment due to the cumulative effects. Instruct patients that the dose will “hold” for a longer period of time as tissue stores of methadone accumulate. Use lower initial doses for patients whose tolerance is expected to be low at treatment entry. Any patient who has not taken opioids for more than 5 days may no longer be tolerant. Do not determine initial doses based on previous treatment episodes or dollars spent per day on illicit drug use. Also consider concurrent medications and the general condition and medical status of the patient when selecting the initial dose. During the induction phase of methadone maintenance treatment, patients are being withdrawn from other opioids and may show typical withdrawal symptoms. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal including: lacrimation, rhinorrhea, sneezing, yawning, excessive perspiration, goose-flesh, fever, chilliness alternating with flushing, restlessness, irritability, weakness, anxiety, depression, dilated pupils, tremors, tachycardia, abdominal cramps, body aches, involuntary twitching and kicking movements, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, intestinal spasms, and weight loss and consider dose adjustment as indicated. Short-Term Detoxification For a brief course of stabilization followed by a period of medically supervised withdrawal, titrate the patient to a total daily dose of about 40 mg in divided doses to achieve an adequate stabilizing level. After 2 to 3 days of stabilization, gradually decrease the dose of methadone. Decrease the dose of methadone on a daily basis or at 2-day intervals, keeping the amount of methadone sufficient to keep withdrawal symptoms at a tolerable level. Hospitalized patients may tolerate a daily reduction of 20% of the total daily dose. Ambulatory patients may need a slower schedule. 2.5 Titration and Maintenance Treatment of Opioid Dependence Titrate patients in maintenance treatment to a dose that prevents opioid withdrawal symptoms for 24 hours, reduces drug hunger or craving, and blocks or attenuates the euphoric effects of self-administered opioids, ensuring that the patient is tolerant to the sedative effects of methadone. Most commonly, clinical stability is achieved at doses between 80 to 120 mg/day. During prolonged administration of methadone, monitor patients for persistent constipation and manage accordingly. 2.6 Medically Supervised Withdrawal After a Period of Maintenance Treatment for Opioid Addiction There is considerable variability in the appropriate rate of methadone taper in patients choosing medically supervised withdrawal from methadone treatment. Dose reductions should generally be less than 10% of the established tolerance or maintenance dose, and 10- to 14-day intervals should elapse between dose reductions. Apprise patients of the high risk of relapse to illicit drug use associated with discontinuation of methadone maintenance treatment. Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue Methadone Hydrochloride in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.15 )] . 2.7 Risk of Relapse in Patients on Methadone Maintenance Treatment of Opioid Addiction Abrupt opioid discontinuation can lead to development of opioid withdrawal symptoms [see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )] . Opioid withdrawal symptoms have been associated with an increased risk of relapse to illicit drug use in susceptible patients. 2.8 Considerations for Management of Acute Pain During Methadone Maintenance Treatment Patients in methadone maintenance treatment for opioid dependence who experience physical trauma, postoperative pain, or other acute pain cannot be expected to derive analgesia from their existing dose of methadone. Such patients should be administered analgesics, including opioids, in doses that would otherwise be indicated for non-methadone-treated patients with similar painful conditions. When opioids are required for management of acute pain in methadone maintenance patients, somewhat higher and/or more frequent doses will often be required than would be the case for non-tolerant patients due to the opioid tolerance induced by methadone. 2.9 Dosage Adjustment During Pregnancy Methadone clearance may be increased during pregnancy. During pregnancy, a woman’s methadone dose may need to be increased or the dosing interval decreased [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 )] . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important General Information Consider the following important factors that differentiate methadone from other opioids: The peak respiratory depressant effect of methadone occurs later and persists longer than its peak pharmacologic effect. Methadone has a narrow therapeutic index, especially when combined with other drugs. Methadone Hydrochloride Injection for Management of Pain Methadone Hydrochloride Injection should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable in the use of potent opioids for the management of chronic pain. Consider the following important factors that differentiate methadone from other opioid analgesics: There is high interpatient variability in absorption, metabolism, and relative analgesic potency. The duration of analgesic action of methadone is 4 to 8 hours (based on single-dose studies) but the plasma elimination half-life is 8 to 59 hours. With repeated dosing, the potency of methadone increases due to systemic accumulation. Steady-state plasma concentrations, and full analgesic effects, are not attained until at least 3 to 5 days on a dose and may take longer in some patients. Methadone Hydrochloride Injection should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of extended-release/long-acting opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse (see WARNINGS ). Initiation of Therapy in Opioid Non-Tolerant Patients When parenteral methadone is used as the first analgesic in patients who are not already being treated with, and tolerant to, opioids, the usual intravenous methadone starting dose is 2.5 mg to 10 mg every 8 to 12 hours, slowly titrated to effect. Switching Patients to Parenteral Methadone from Other Chronic Opioids Switching a patient from another chronically administered opioid to methadone requires caution due to the uncertainty of dose conversion ratios and incomplete cross-tolerance. It is safer to underestimate a patient's 24-hour methadone dosage and provide rescue medication (e.g., immediate-release opioid) than to overestimate the 24-hour methadone dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to an overdose. The dose conversion scheme below is derived from various consensus guidelines for converting chronic pain patients to methadone from morphine. Consider the following when using the information in Table 1: This is not a table of equianalgesic doses. The conversion factors in this table are only for the conversion from another oral opioid analgesic to methadone hydrochloride tablets. The table cannot be used to convert from methadone hydrochloride tablets to another opioid. Oral Morphine to Intravenous Methadone Conversion for Chronic Administration Total Daily Baseline Oral Morphine Dose Estimated Daily Oral Methadone Requirement as Percent of Total Daily Morphine Dose Estimated Daily Intravenous Methadone as Percent of Total Daily Oral Morphine Dose The total daily methadone dose derived from the table above may then be divided to reflect the intended dosing schedule (i.e., for administration every 8 hours, divide total daily methadone dose by 3). Parenteral Morphine to Intravenous Methadone Conversion for Chronic Administration (Derived from Table 1, Assuming a 3:1 Oral:Parenteral Morphine Ratio) Total Daily Baseline Parenteral Morphine Dose Estimated Daily Parenteral Methadone Requirement as Percent of Total Daily Morphine Dose The total daily methadone dose derived from the table above may then be divided to reflect the intended dosing schedule (i.e., for administration every 8 hours, divide total daily methadone dose by 3). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Strongly consider prescribing naloxone at the time methadone hydrochloride oral concentrate is initiated or renewed because patients being treated with methadone may be at risk for opioid overdose during initiation or titration, or in the case of relapse to illicit use. ( 2.5 ) Do not abruptly discontinue methadone hydrochloride oral concentrate in a physically dependent patient. 2.2 Important Dosage and Administration Information Methadone hydrochloride oral concentrate is for oral administration only. Package in child-resistant containers and inform patients that methadone hydrochloride oral concentrate should be kept out of reach of children to prevent accidental ingestion [see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )] . Methadone hydrochloride oral concentrate has a narrow therapeutic index, especially when combined with other drugs. 2.3 Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver. Because patients being treated with methadone may be at risk for opioid overdose during initiation or titration, or in the case of relapse to illicit use, strongly consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose, both when initiating and renewing treatment with methadone hydrochloride oral concentrate. Also consider prescribing naloxone if the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or opioid overdose [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Advise patients and caregivers that naloxone may also be administered for a known or suspected overdose with methadone hydrochloride oral concentrate itself [see Overdosage ( 10 )] . Inform patients and caregivers of their options for obtaining naloxone as permitted by individual state naloxone dispensing and prescribing regulations (e.g., by prescription, directly from a pharmacist, or as part of a community-based program) [see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )] . Do not abruptly discontinue methadone hydrochloride oral concentrate in a physically dependent patient [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.15 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Consider prescribing naloxone based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose (2.3, 5.1, 5.2, 5.3). Management of Pain Methadone hydrochloride tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of extended-release/long-acting opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. (2.1) Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals. Reserve titration to higher doses of methadone hydrochloride tablets for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. (2.1, 5) Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse (2.1, 5.1) Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with methadone hydrochloride tablets. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments (2.1, 5.2) For opioid naïve patients, initiate methadone hydrochloride tablets treatment with 2.5 mg every 8 to 12 hours. (2.4) To convert to methadone hydrochloride tablets from another opioid, use available conversion factors to obtain estimated dose. (2.4) Titrate slowly with dose increases no more frequent than every 3 to 5 days. (2.5) Do not abruptly discontinue methadone hydrochloride tablets in a physically dependent patient because rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. (2.6, 5.16) Initiation of Detoxification and Maintenance Treatment A single dose of 20 to 30 mg may be sufficient to suppress withdrawal syndrome. (2.7) 2.1 Conditions for Distribution and Use of Methadone Products for the Treatment of Opioid Addiction Code of Federal Regulations, Title 42, Sec 8: Methadone products when used for the treatment of opioid addiction in detoxification or maintenance programs, shall be dispensed only by opioid treatment programs (and agencies, practitioners or institutions by formal agreement with the program sponsor) certified by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration and approved by the designated state authority. Regulatory Exceptions to the General Requirement for Certification to Provide Opioid Agonist Treatment: During inpatient care, when the patient was admitted for any condition other than concurrent opioid addiction (pursuant to 21CFR 1306.07(c)), to facilitate the treatment of the primary admitting diagnosis). During an emergency period of no longer than 3 days while definitive care for the addiction is being sought in an appropriately licensed facility (pursuant to 21CFR 1306.07(b)). 2.2 Important General Information The peak respiratory depressant effect of methadone occurs later and persists longer than its peak therapeutic effect. Deaths have been reported during conversion to methadone from chronic, high-dose treatment with other opioid agonists and during initiation of methadone treatment of addiction in subjects previously abusing high doses of other agonists. 2.3 Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with methadone hydrochloride tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2), Overdosage (10)]. Also consider prescribing naloxone if the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose. If naloxone is prescribed, educate patients and caregivers on how to treat with naloxone. [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2), Patient Counseling Information (17)]. Inform patients and caregivers of their options for obtaining naloxone as permitted by individual state naloxone dispensing and prescribing requirements or guidelines (e.g., by prescription, directly from a pharmacist, or as part of a community-based program) [see Patient Counseling Information (17)]. 2.3 2.4 Methadone Hydrochloride Tablets for Management of Pain Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Methadone hydrochloride tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of extended-release/long-acting opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Consider the following important factors that differentiate methadone from other opioid analgesics: There is high interpatient variability in absorption, metabolism, and relative analgesic potency of methadone. Steady-state plasma concentrations and full analgesic effects are not attained until at least 3 to 5 days on a dose, and may take longer in some patients. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions (5)]. Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of methadone hydrochloride tablets for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with methadone hydrochloride tablets. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see Warnings and Precautions (5)]. Use of Methadone Hydrochloride Tablets as the First Opioid Analgesic: Initiate treatment with methadone hydrochloride tablets with 2.5 mg orally every 8 to 12 hours. Conversion from Other Oral Opioids to Methadone Hydrochloride Tablets: When methadone hydrochloride tablets therapy is initiated, discontinue all other opioid analgesics other than those used on an as needed basis for breakthrough pain when appropriate. Table 1: Conversion Factors to Methadone Hydrochloride Tablets Total Daily Baseline Oral Morphine Equivalent Dose Estimated Daily Oral Methadone Requirement as Percent of Total Daily Morphine Equivalent Dose < 100 mg 20% to 30% 100 to 300 mg 10% to 20% 300 to 600 mg 8% to 12% 600 mg to 1,000 mg 5% to 10% > 1,000 mg < 5 % To calculate the estimated methadone hydrochloride tablets dose using Table 1: For patients on a single opioid, sum the current total daily dose of the opioid, convert it to a Morphine Equivalent Dose according to specific conversion factor for that specific opioid, then multiply the Morphine Equivalent Dose by the corresponding percentage in the above table to calculate the approximate oral methadone daily dose. Divide the total daily methadone dose derived from the table above to reflect the intended dosing schedule (i.e., for administration every 8 hours, divide total daily methadone dose by 3). For patients on a regimen of more than one opioid, calculate the approximate oral methadone dose for each opioid and sum the totals to obtain the approximate total methadone daily dose. For patients on a regimen of fixed-ratio opioid/non-opioid analgesic products, use only the opioid component of these products in the conversion. Always round the dose down, if necessary, to the appropriate methadone hydrochloride tablets strength(s) available. Example conversion from a single opioid to methadone hydrochloride tablets: Step 1: Sum the total daily dose of the opioid (in this case, Morphine Extended Release Tablets 50 mg twice daily) 50 mg Morphine Extended Release Tablets 2 times daily = 100 mg total daily dose of Morphine Step 2: Calculate the approximate equivalent dose of methadone hydrochloride tablets based on the total daily dose of Morphine using Table 1. 100 mg total daily dose of Morphine x 15% (10% to 20% per Table 1) = 15 mg methadone hydrochloride tablets daily Step 3: Calculate the approximate starting dose of methadone hydrochloride tablets to be given every 12 hours. Round down, if necessary, to the appropriate methadone hydrochloride tablets strengths available. 15 mg daily / 2 = 7.5 mg methadone hydrochloride tablets every 12 hours Then 7.5 mg is rounded down to 5 mg methadone hydrochloride tablets every 12 hours Close observation and frequent titration are warranted until pain management is stable on the new opioid. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal or for signs of over-sedation/toxicity after converting patients to methadone hydrochloride tablets. Conversion from Parenteral Methadone to Methadone Hydrochloride Tablets : Use a conversion ratio of 1:2 mg for parenteral to oral methadone (e.g., 5 mg parenteral methadone to 10 mg oral methadone). 2.5 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy for Pain Individually titrate methadone hydrochloride tablets to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving methadone hydrochloride tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.16)]. Frequent communication is important among the prescriber, other members of the healthcare team, the patient, and the caregiver/family during periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial titration. During use of opioid therapy for an extended period of time, periodically reassess the continued need for the use of opioid analgesics. Patients who experience breakthrough pain may require a dose increase of methadone hydrochloride tablets, or may need rescue medication with an appropriate dose of an immediate-release analgesic. If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization, attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the methadone hydrochloride tablets dosage. Because of individual variability in the pharmacokinetic profile (i.e., terminal half-life (T 1/2 ) from 8 to 59 hours in different studies [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] , titrate methadone hydrochloride tablets slowly, with dose increases no more frequent than every 3 to 5 days. However, because of this high variability, some patients may require substantially longer periods between dose increases (up to 12 days). Monitor patients closely for the development of potentially life-threatening adverse reactions (e.g., CNS and respiratory depression). If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see Warnings and Precautions (5)]. Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions. 2.6 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Methadone Hydrochloride Tablets for Pain Do not abruptly discontinue methadone hydrochloride tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. Rapid discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. Patients may also attempt to treat their pain or withdrawal symptoms with illicit opioids, such as heroin, and other substances. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking methadone hydrochloride tablets, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including methadone hydrochloride tablets) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. It is important to ensure ongoing care of the patient and to agree on an appropriate tapering schedule and follow-up plan so that patient and provider goals and expectations are clear and realistic. When opioid analgesics are being discontinued due to a suspected substance use disorder, evaluate and treat the patient, or refer for evaluation and treatment of the substance use disorder. Treatment should include evidence-based approaches, such as medication assisted treatment of opioid use disorder. Complex patients with co-morbid pain and substance use disorders may benefit from referral to a specialist. There are no standard opioid tapering schedules that are suitable for all patients. Good clinical practice dictates a patient-specific plan to taper the dose of the opioid gradually. For patients on methadone hydrochloride tablets who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. Patients who have been taking opioids for briefer periods of time may tolerate a more rapid taper. It may be necessary to provide the patient with lower dosage strengths to accomplish a successful taper. Reassess the patient frequently to manage pain and withdrawal symptoms, should they emerge. Common withdrawal symptoms include restlessness, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, yawning, perspiration, chills, myalgia, and mydriasis. Other signs and symptoms also may develop, including irritability, anxiety, backache, joint pain, weakness, abdominal cramps, insomnia, nausea, anorexia, vomiting, diarrhea, or increased blood pressure, respiratory rate, or heart rate. If withdrawal symptoms arise, it may be necessary to pause the taper for a period of time or raise the dose of the opioid analgesic to the previous dose, and then proceed with a slower taper. In addition, evaluate patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for an extended period of time, and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16), Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3)]. 2.7 Induction/Initial Dosing for Detoxification and Maintenance Treatment of Opioid Addiction For detoxification and maintenance of opioid dependence, methadone should be administered in accordance with the treatment standards cited in 42 CFR Section 8.12, including limitations on unsupervised administration. An initial single dose of 20 to 30 mg of methadone hydrochloride tablets will often be sufficient to suppress withdrawal symptoms. Provide an additional 5 to 10 mg of methadone hydrochloride tablets if withdrawal symptoms have not been suppressed or if symptoms reappear. The total daily dose of methadone hydrochloride tablets on the first day of treatment should not ordinarily exceed 40 mg. Adjust the dose over the first week of treatment based on control of withdrawal symptoms at the time of expected peak activity (e.g., 2 to 4 hours after dosing). When adjusting the dose, keep in mind that methadone levels will accumulate over the first several days of dosing; deaths have occurred in early treatment due to the cumulative effects. During the induction phase of methadone maintenance treatment, patients are being withdrawn from opioids and may have opioid withdrawal symptoms. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal including: lacrimation, rhinorrhea, sneezing, yawning, excessive perspiration, goose-flesh, fever, chilling alternating with flushing, restlessness, irritability, weakness, anxiety, depression, dilated pupils, tremors, tachycardia, abdominal cramps, body aches, involuntary twitching and kicking movements, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, intestinal spasms, and weight loss and consider dose adjustment as indicated. After 2 to 3 days of stabilization, gradually decrease the dose of methadone hydrochloride tablets. Decrease the dose of methadone hydrochloride tablets on a daily basis or at 2-day intervals, keeping the amount of methadone hydrochloride tablets sufficient to keep withdrawal symptoms at a tolerable level. 2.8 Titration and Maintenance Treatment of Opioid Dependence Titrate patients in maintenance treatment to a dose that prevents opioid withdrawal symptoms for 24 hours, reduces drug hunger or craving, and blocks or attenuates the euphoric effects of self-administered opioids, ensuring that the patient is tolerant to the sedative effects of methadone. 2.9 Medically Supervised Withdrawal after a Period of Maintenance Treatment for Opioid Addiction There is considerable variability in the appropriate rate of methadone taper in patients choosing medically supervised withdrawal from methadone treatment. Dose reductions should generally be less than 10% of the established tolerance or maintenance dose, and 10 to 14-day intervals should elapse between dose reductions. 2.10 Risk of Relapse in Patients on Methadone Maintenance Treatment of Opioid Addiction Abrupt opioid discontinuation can lead to development of opioid withdrawal symptoms [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3)] . 2.11 Considerations for Management of Acute Pain during Methadone Maintenance Treatment Patients in methadone maintenance treatment for opioid dependence who experience physical trauma, postoperative pain or other acute pain cannot be expected to derive analgesia from their existing dose of methadone. 2.12 Dosage Adjustment during Pregnancy Methadone clearance may be increased during pregnancy. During pregnancy, a woman’s methadone dose may need to be increased or the dosing interval decreased [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. Steady-state plasma concentrations are not attained until 3 to 5 days after initiation of dosing . It is safer to underestimate a patient’s 24- hour methadone dosage and provide rescue medication (e.g., immediate-release opioid) than to overestimate the 24-hour methadone dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to an overdose. Oral Morphine to Intravenous Methadone Conversion for Chronic Administration Total Daily Baseline Oral Morphine Dose Estimated Daily Oral Methadone Requirement as Percent of Total Daily Morphine Dose Estimated Daily Intravenous Methadone as Percent of Total Daily Oral Morphine Dose 1 Less than 100 mg 20% to 30% 10% to 15% 100 mg to 300 mg 10% to 20% 5% to 10% 300 mg to 600 mg 8% to 12% 4% to 6% 600 mg to 1000 mg 5% to 10% 3% to 5% Greater than 1000 mg Less than 5% Less than 3% 1 The total daily methadone dose derived from the table above may then be divided to reflect the intended dosing schedule (i.e., for administration every 8 hours, divide total daily methadone dose by 3). Table 2. Parenteral Morphine to Intravenous Methadone Conversion for Chronic Administration (Derived from Table 1, Assuming a 3:1 Oral:Parenteral Morphine Ratio) Total Daily Baseline Parenteral Morphine Dose Estimated Daily Parenteral Methadone Requirement as Percent of Total Daily Morphine Dose 1 10 mg to 30 mg 40% to 66% 30 mg to 50 mg 27% to 66% 50 mg to 100 mg 22% to 50% 100 mg to 200 mg 15% to 34% 200 mg to 500 mg 10% to 20% 1 The total daily methadone dose derived from the table above may then be divided to reflect the intended dosing schedule (i.e., for administration every 8 hours, divide total daily methadone dose by 3). Note: Equianalgesic methadone dosing varies not only between patients, but also within the same patient, depending on baseline morphine (or other opioid) dose. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Strongly consider prescribing naloxone at the time Methadone Hydrochloride is initiated or renewed because patients being treated with methadone may be at risk for opioid overdose during initiation or titration, or in the case of relapse to illicit use. ( 2.5 ) Do not abruptly discontinue Methadone Hydrochloride in a physically dependent patient. Package in child-resistant containers and inform patients that Methadone Hydrochloride should be kept out of reach of children to prevent accidental ingestion [see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )] . Because patients being treated with methadone may be at risk for opioid overdose during initiation or titration, or in the case of relapse to illicit use, strongly consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose, both when initiating and renewing treatment with Methadone Hydrochloride. Advise patients and caregivers that naloxone may also be administered for a known or suspected overdose with Methadone Hydrochloride itself [see Overdosage ( 10 )] . Do not abruptly discontinue Methadone Hydrochloride in a physically dependent patient [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.15 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Management of Pain • To be prescribed only by healthcare providers knowledgeable in use of potent opioids for management of chronic pain. (2.3) • Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals. (2.3) • Individualize dosing based on the severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. (2.3) • For opioid naïve patients, initiate methadone hydrochloride tablets treatment with 2.5 mg every 8 to 12 hours. (2.3) • To convert to methadone hydrochloride tablets from another opioid, use available conversion factors to obtain estimated dose. (2.3) • Titrate slowly with dose increases no more frequent than every 3 to 5 days. (2.4) • Do not abruptly discontinue methadone hydrochloride tablets in a physically dependent patient because rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. (2.5, 5.15) Initiation of Detoxification and Maintenance Treatmen t • A single dose of 20 to 30 mg may be sufficient to suppress withdrawal syndrome. (2.6) 2.1 Conditions for Distribution and Use of Methadone Products for the Treatment of Opioid Addiction Code of Federal Regulations, Title 42, Sec 8: Methadone products when used for the treatment of opioid addiction in detoxification or maintenance programs, shall be dispensed only by opioid treatment programs (and agencies, practitioners or institutions by formal agreement with the program sponsor) certified by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration and approved by the designated state authority. Regulatory Exceptions to the General Requirement for Certification to Provide Opioid Agonist Treatment: • During inpatient care, when the patient was admitted for any condition other than concurrent opioid addiction (pursuant to 21CFR 1306.07(c)), to facilitate the treatment of the primary admitting diagnosis). • During an emergency period of no longer than 3 days while definitive care for the addiction is being sought in an appropriately licensed facility (pursuant to 21CFR 1306.07(b)). 2.2 Important General Information • The peak respiratory depressant effect of methadone occurs later and persists longer than its peak therapeutic effect. 2.3 Methadone Tablets for Management of Pain Important Dosage and Administration Information Methadone hydrochloride tablets, USP should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable in the use of potent opioids for the management of chronic pain. Consider the following important factors that differentiate methadone from other opioid analgesics: • There is high interpatient variability in absorption, metabolism, and relative analgesic potency of methadone. • Steady-state plasma concentrations and full analgesic effects are not attained until at least 3 to 5 days on a dose, and may take longer in some patients. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions (5)]. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24 to 72 hours of initiating therapy and following dosage increases with methadone hydrochloride tablets and adjust the dosage accordingly [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Use of Methadone hydrochloride tablets, USP as the First Opioid Analgesic : Initiate treatment with methadone hydrochloride tablets with 2.5 mg orally every 8 to 12 hours. Conversion from Other Oral Opioids to methadone hydrochloride tablets, USP : Discontinue all other around-the-clock opioid drugs when methadone hydrochloride tablets therapy is initiated. Deaths have occurred in opioid-tolerant patients during conversion to methadone. • The table canno t be used to convert from methadone hydrochloride tablets to another opioid. Table 1: Conversion Factors to Methadone Hydrochloride Tablets Total Daily Baseline Oral Morphine Equivalent Dose Estimated Daily Oral Methadone Requirement as Percent of Total Daily Morphine Equivalent Dose < 100 mg 20% to 30% 100 to 300 mg 10% to 20% 300 to 600 mg 8% to 12% 600 mg to 1,000 mg 5% to 10% > 1,000 mg < 5% To calculate the estimated methadone hydrochloride tablets dose using Table 1: • For patients on a single opioid, sum the current total daily dose of the opioid, convert it to a Morphine Equivalent Dose according to specific conversion factor for that specific opioid, then multiply the Morphine Equivalent Dose by the corresponding percentage in the above table to calculate the approximate oral methadone daily dose. • For patients on a regimen of more than one opioid, calculate the approximate oral methadone dose for each opioid and sum the totals to obtain the approximate total methadone daily dose. • For patients on a regimen of fixed-ratio opioid/non-opioid analgesic products, use only the opioid component of these products in the conversion. Conversion from Parenteral Methadone to methadone hydrochloride tablets: Use a conversion ratio of 1:2 mg for parenteral to oral methadone (e.g., 5 mg parenteral methadone to 10 mg oral methadone). 2.4 Titration and Maintenance of Therapy for Pain Individually titrate methadone hydrochloride tablets to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions. Continually reevaluate patients receiving methadone hydrochloride tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions, as well as monitoring for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. During chronic therapy, periodically reassess the continued need for the use of opioid analgesics. Because of individual variability in the pharmacokinetic profile (i.e., terminal half-life (T1/2) from 8 to 59 hours in different studies [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] , titrate methadone hydrochloride tablets slowly, with dose increases no more frequent than every 3 to 5 days. If unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed, the subsequent doses may be reduced and/or the dosing interval adjusted (i.e., every 8 hours or every 12 hours). Adjust the dose to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid-related adverse reactions. 2.5 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Methadone Tablets for Pain Do not abruptly discontinue methadone in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking methadone, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the dose of methadone the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. For patients on methadone who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. If withdrawal symptoms arise, it may be necessary to pause the taper for a period of time or raise the dose of the opioid analgesic to the 1/2 previous dose, and then proceed with a slower taper. In addition, monitor patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for a long duration and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.15 ), Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 ) ]. 2.6 Induction/Initial Dosing for Detoxification and Maintenance Treatment of Opioid Addiction For detoxification and maintenance of opioid dependence, methadone should be administered in accordance with the treatment standards cited in 42 CFR Section 8.12, including limitations on unsupervised administration Administer the initial methadone dose under supervision, when there are no signs of sedation or intoxication, and the patient shows symptoms of withdrawal. Short-term Detoxification: For a brief course of stabilization followed by a period of medically supervised withdrawal, titrate the patient to a total daily dose of about 40 mg in divided doses to achieve an adequate stabilizing level. 2.7 Titration and Maintenance Treatment of Opioid Dependence Titrate patients in maintenance treatment to a dose that prevents opioid withdrawal symptoms for 24 hours, reduces drug hunger or craving, and blocks or attenuates the euphoric effects of self-administered opioids, ensuring that the patient is tolerant to the sedative effects of methadone. 2.8 Medically Supervised Withdrawal after a Period of Maintenance Treatment for Opioid Addiction There is considerable variability in the appropriate rate of methadone taper in patients choosing medically supervised withdrawal from methadone treatment. 2.9 Risk of Relapse in Patients on Methadone Maintenance Treatment of Opioid Addiction Abrupt opioid discontinuation can lead to development of opioid withdrawal symptoms [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3)] . 2.10 Considerations for Management of Acute Pain during Methadone Maintenance Treatment Patients in methadone maintenance treatment for opioid dependence who experience physical trauma, postoperative pain or other acute pain cannot be expected to derive analgesia from their existing dose of methadone. 2.11 Dosage Adjustment during Pregnancy Methadone clearance may be increased during pregnancy. During pregnancy, a woman’s methadone dose may need to be increased or the dosing interval decreased. Methadone should be used in pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent (e.g., naloxone, nalmefene) based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose ( 2.3 , 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 ). Methadone hydrochloride tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of extended-release/long-acting opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. ( 2.1 ) Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals. ( 2.1, 5 ) Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse ( 5.1 ) Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with methadone hydrochloride tablets. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments ( 2.1 , 5.2 ). To convert to methadone hydrochloride tablets from another opioid, use available conversion factors to obtain estimated dose. ( 2.4 ) Titrate slowly with dose increases no more frequent than every 3 to 5 days. (2.5 ) Periodically reassess patients receiving methadone hydrochloride tablets to evaluate the continued need for opioid analgesics to maintain pain control, for the signs or symptoms of adverse reactions, and for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse. ( 2.5) Do not not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue methadone hydrochloride tablets in a physically dependent patient because rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. ( 2.6 , 5.16 ) Initi ation of Detoxification and Maintenance Treatment A single dose of 20 to 30 mg may be sufficient to suppress withdrawal syndrome. ( 2.7 ) 2.1 Conditions for Distribution and Use of Methadone Products for the Treatment of Opioid Addiction Code of Federal Regulations, Title 42, Sec 8 : Methadone products when used for the treatment of opioid addiction in detoxification or maintenance programs, shall be dispensed only by opioid treatment programs (and agencies, practitioners or institutions by formal agreement with the program sponsor) certified by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration and approved by the designated state authority. Regulatory Exceptions to the General Requirement for Certification to Provide Opioid Agonist Treatment : During inpatient care, when the patient was admitted for any condition other than concurrent opioid addiction (pursuant to 21 CFR 1306.07(c)), to facilitate the treatment of the primary admitting diagnosis). [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 ), OVERDOSAGE ( 10 )]. For Patients Being Treated for Pain Discuss the importance of having access to an opioid overdose reversal agent, especially if the patient has risk factors for overdose (e.g., concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose) or if there are household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the management of pain in any patient [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 )]. For Patients Being Treated for Opioid Addiction Because patients being treated for opioid use disorder have the potential for relapse, putting them at risk for opioid overdose, strongly consider recommending or prescribing an overdose reversal agent for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose, both when initiating and renewing treatment with methadone hydrochloride tablets. Advise patients and caregivers that an opioid overdose reversal agent, such as naloxone or nalmefene may also be administered for a known or suspected overdose with methadone hydrochloride tablets itself [see OVERDOSAGE ( 10) ]. For patients being treated with methadone (regardless of indication), also consider prescribing or recommending such an agent if the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose. Discuss the options for obtaining an opioid overdose reversal agent (e.g., prescription, over-the-counter, or as part of a community-based program) [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.2)]. 2.4 Methadone Hydrochloride Tablets for Management of Pain Important Dosage and Administration Information Methadone hydrochloride tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of extended-release/long-acting opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 ) ]. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 ) ] Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with methadone hydrochloride tablets. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 )] . Conversion from Other Oral Opioids to Methadone Hydrochloride Tablet s: When methadone hydrochloride tablets therapy is initiated, discontinue all other opioid analgesics other than those used on an as needed basis for breakthrough pain when appropriate. Table 1: Conversion Factors to Methadone Hydrochloride Tablets Total Daily Baseline Oral Morphine Equivalent Dose Estimated Daily Oral Methadone Requirement as Percent of Total Daily Morphine Equivalent Dose < 100 mg 20% to 30% 100 to 300 mg 10% to 20% 300 to 600 mg 8% to 12% 600 mg to 1000 mg 5% to 10% > 1000 mg < 5 % To calculate the estimated methadone hydrochloride tablets dose using Table 1: For patients on a single opioid, sum the current total daily dose of the opioid, convert it to a Morphine Equivalent Dose according to specific conversion factor for that specific opioid, then multiply the Morphine Equivalent Dose by the corresponding percentage in the above table to calculate the approximate oral methadone daily dose. Continually reevaluate patients receiving methadone hydrochloride tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions, as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 , 5.16 )]. Because of individual variability in the pharmacokinetic profile (i.e., terminal half-life (T 1/2 ) from 8 to 59 hours in different studies [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 ) ], titrate methadone hydrochloride tablets slowly, with dose increases no more frequent than every 3 to 5 days. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 ) ]. 2.6 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Methadone Hydrochloride Tablets for Pain Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue methadone hydrochloride tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. Rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.16 ) , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ( 9.3 )]. 2.7 Induction/Initial Dosing for Detoxification and Maintenance Treatment of Opioid Addiction For detoxification and maintenance of opioid dependence methadone should be administered in accordance with the treatment standards cited in 42 CFR Section 8.12, including limitations on unsupervised administration. 2.10 Risk of Relapse in Patients on Methadone Maintenance Treatment of Opioid Addiction Abrupt opioid discontinuation can lead to development of opioid withdrawal symptoms [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ( 9.3 ) ]. [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.1 ) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Methadone hydrochloride tablets should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of extended-release/long-acting opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. ( 2.1 , 5 ) Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse ( 5.1 ) Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with methadone hydrochloride tablets. For opioid naïve patients, initiate methadone hydrochloride tablets treatment with 2.5 mg every 8 to 12 hours. ( 2.4 ) To convert to methadone hydrochloride tablets from another opioid, use available conversion factors to obtain estimated dose. ( 2.5 ) Do not abruptly discontinue methadone hydrochloride tablets in a physically dependent patient because rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. ( 2.6 , 5.16 ) Initi a ti o n of Detoxification and Maintenance Treatment A single dose of 20 to 30 mg may be sufficient to suppress withdrawal syndrome. ( 2.7 ) 2.1 Conditions for Distribution and Use of Methadone Products for the Treatment of Opioid Addiction Code of Federal Regulations, Title 42, Sec 8: Methadone products when used for the treatment of opioid addiction in detoxification or maintenance programs, shall be dispensed only by opioid treatment programs (and agencies, practitioners or institutions by formal agreement with the program sponsor) certified by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration and approved by the designated state authority. 2.3 Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with methadone hydrochloride tablets [see Warnings and Precauti ons ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 ) O verdosage ( 10 )] . For Patients Being Treated for Pain Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient. For Patients Being Treated for Opioid Addiction Because patients being treated for opioid use disorder have the potential for relapse, putting them at risk for opioid overdose, strongly consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Advise patients and caregivers that naloxone may also be administered for a known or suspected overdose with methadone hydrochloride tablets itself. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )] . Inform patients and caregivers of their options for obtaining naloxone as permitted by individual state naloxone dispensing and prescribing requirements or guidelines (e.g., by prescription, directly from a pharmacist, or as part of a community-based program) [see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )] . Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )] . Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )] . Use of Methadone Hydrochloride Tablets as the First Opioid Analgesic : Initiate treatment with methadone hydrochloride tablets with 2.5 mg orally every 8 to 12 hours. Conversion from Other Oral Opioids to Methadone Hydrochloride Tablets : When methadone hydrochloride therapy is initiated, discontinue all other opioid analgesics other than those used on an as needed basis for breakthrough pain when appropriate. Table 1: Conversion Factors to Methadone Hydrochloride Tablets Total Daily Baseline Oral Morphine Equivalent Dose Estimated Daily Oral Methadone Requirement as Percent of Total Daily Morphine Equivalent Dose ˂ 100 mg 20% to 30% 100 to 300 mg 10% to 20% 300 to 600 mg 8% to 12% 600 mg to 1,000 mg 5% to 10% > 1,000 mg ˂ 5% To calculate the estimated methadone hydrochloride tablets dose using Table 1: For patients on a single opioid, sum the current total daily dose of the opioid , convert it to a Morphine Equivalent Dose according to specific conversion factor for that specific opioid, then multiply the Morphine Equivalent Dose by the corresponding percentage in the above table to calculate the approximate oral methadone daily dose. Continually reevaluate patients receiving methadone hydrochloride tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control, signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal, and other adverse reactions as well as to reassess for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), ( 5.16) ] . Because of individual variability in the pharmacokinetic profile (i.e., terminal half-life (T 1/2 ) from 8 to 59 hours in different studies [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , titrate methadone hydrochloride tablets slowly, with dose increases no more frequent than every 3 to 5 days. If after increasing the dosage, unacceptable opioid-related adverse reactions are observed (including an increase in pain after dosage increase), consider reducing the dosage [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )] . A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.16 ), Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 ) ]. Provide an additional 5 mg to 10 mg of methadone hydrochloride tablets if withdrawal symptoms have not been suppressed or if symptoms reappear. 2.10 Risk of Relapse in Patients on Methadone Maintenance Treatment of Opioid Addiction Abrupt opioid discontinuation can lead to development of opioid withdrawal symptoms [see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )] .
Warnings: WARNINGS Addiction, Abuse and Misuse Methadone Hydrochloride Injection contains methadone, a Schedule II controlled substance. As an opioid, Methadone Hydrochloride Injection exposes users to the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse. Although the risk of addiction in any individual is unknown, it can occur in patients appropriately prescribed Methadone Hydrochloride Injection. Addiction can occur at recommended doses and if the drug is misused or abused. The risk of opioid-related overdose or overdose-related death is increased with higher opioid doses, and this risk persists over the course of therapy. In postmarketing studies, addiction, abuse, misuse, and fatal and non-fatal opioid overdose were observed in patients with long-term opioid use (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ; Postmarketing Experience). Assess each patient’s risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse prior to prescribing Methadone Hydrochloride Injection, and reassess all patients receiving Methadone Hydrochloride Injection for the development of these behaviors and conditions. Risks are increased in patients with a personal or family history of substance abuse (including drug or alcohol addiction or abuse) or mental illness (e.g., major depression). The potential for these risks should not, however, prevent the prescribing of Methadone Hydrochloride Injection for the proper management of pain in any given patient. Opioids are sought for nonmedical use and are subject to diversion from legitimate prescribed use. Consider these risks when prescribing or dispensing Methadone Hydrochloride Injection. Strategies to reduce these risks include proper product storage and control practices for a C-II drug. Contact local state professional licensing board or state-controlled substances authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product. Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression has been reported with the use of opioids, even when used as recommended. Respiratory depression, if not immediately recognized and treated, may lead to respiratory depression and death. Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid overdose reversal agents (e.g., naloxone, nalmefene), depending on the patient’s clinical status. Carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) retention from opioid-induced respiratory depression can exacerbate the sedating effects of opioids. While serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression can occur at any time during the use of Methadone Hydrochloride Injection, the risk is greatest during the initiation of therapy or following a dosage increase. To reduce the risk of respiratory depression, proper dosing and titration of Methadone Hydrochloride Injection are essential. Overestimating the Methadone Hydrochloride Injection dosage when converting patients from another opioid product can result in a fatal overdose with the first dose. Methadone Hydrochloride Injection should be administered with extreme caution to patients with conditions accompanied by hypoxia, hypercapnia, or decreased respiratory reserve such as; asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale, severe obesity, sleep apnea syndrome, myxedema, kyphoscoliosis, CNS depression or coma. In these patients even usual therapeutic doses of methadone may decrease respiratory drive while simultaneously increasing airway resistance to the point of apnea. Alternative non-opioid analgesics should be considered, and methadone should be employed only under careful medical supervision at the lowest effective dose. Methadone's peak respiratory depressant effects typically occur later, and persist longer than its peak analgesic effects, in the short-term use setting. These characteristics can contribute to cases of iatrogenic overdose, particularly during treatment initiation and dose titration. Opioids can cause sleep-related breathing disorders including central sleep apnea (CSA) and sleep-related hypoxemia. Opioid use increases the risk of CSA in a dose-dependent fashion. In patients who present with CSA, consider decreasing the opioid dosage using best practices for opioid taper (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Life-Threatening QT Prolongation Cases of QT interval prolongation and serious arrhythmia (torsades de pointes) have been observed during treatment with methadone. These cases appear to be more commonly associated with, but not limited to, higher dose treatment (> 200 mg/day). Most cases involve patients being treated for pain with large, multiple daily doses of methadone, although cases have been reported in patients receiving doses commonly used for maintenance treatment of opioid addiction. In most patients on the lower doses typically used for maintenance, concomitant medications and/or clinical conditions such as hypokalemia were noted as contributing factors. However, the evidence strongly suggests that methadone possesses the potential for adverse cardiac conduction effects in some patients. The effects of methadone on the QT interval have been confirmed in in vivo laboratory studies, and methadone has been shown to inhibit cardiac potassium channels in in vitro studies. Closely monitor patients with risk factors for development of prolonged QT interval (e.g., cardiac hypertrophy, concomitant diuretic use, hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia), a history of cardiac conduction abnormalities, and those taking medications affecting cardiac conduction. QT prolongation has also been reported in patients with no prior cardiac history who have received high doses of methadone. Evaluate patients developing QT prolongation while on methadone treatment for the presence of modifiable risk factors, such as concomitant medications with cardiac effects, drugs that might cause electrolyte abnormalities, and drugs that might act as inhibitors of methadone metabolism. Only initiate methadone hydrochloride tablets therapy for pain in patients for whom the anticipated benefit outweighs the risk of QT prolongation and development of dysrhythmias that have been reported with high doses of methadone. The use of methadone in patients already known to have a prolonged QT interval has not been systematically studied. Managing Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of Methadone Hydrochloride Injection with benzodiazepines and/or other CNS depressants (e.g., alcohol, non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, gabapentinoids [gabapentin or pregabalin], and other opioids). Because of these risks, reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Observational studies have demonstrated that concomitant use of opioid analgesics and benzodiazepines increases the risk of drug-related mortality compared to use of opioid analgesics alone. Because of similar pharmacological properties, it is reasonable to expect similar risk with the concomitant use of other CNS depressant drugs with opioid analgesics (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). If the decision is made to prescribe a benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant concomitantly with an opioid analgesic, prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use. In patients already receiving an opioid analgesic, prescribe a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant than indicated in the absence of an opioid, and titrate based on clinical response. If an opioid analgesic is initiated in a patient already taking a benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant, prescribe a lower initial dose of the opioid analgesic, and titrate based on clinical response. Follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome (NOWS) is an expected and treatable outcome of prolonged use of opioids during pregnancy, whether that use is medically-authorized or illicit. Unlike opioid withdrawal syndrome in adults, NOWS may be life-threatening if not recognized and treated in the neonate. Advise the patient of the risk of NOWS so that appropriate planning for management of the neonate can occur. Healthcare professionals should observe newborns for signs of NOWS and manage accordingly (see PRECAUTIONS: Pregnancy ). The balance between the risks of NOWS and the benefits of maternal Methadone Hydrochloride Injection use may differ based on the risks associated with the mother’s underlying condition, pain or addiction, and the risks of the alternative treatments. • For management of pain, prescribers should discuss all available treatment options with females of reproductive potential, including non-opioid and non-pharmacologic options. • Untreated opioid addiction often results in continued or relapsing illicit opioid use and is associated with poor pregnancy outcomes. NOWS can result from in utero exposure to opioids regardless of the source. Therefore, prescribers should discuss the importance and benefits of management of opioid addiction throughout pregnancy. Risks of Concomitant Use of Cytochrome P450 3A4, 2B6, 2C19, 2C9, or 2D6 Inhibitors or Discontinuation P450 3A4, 2B6, 2C19, or 2C9 Inducers Concomitant use of Methadone Hydrochloride Injection with CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, or CYP2D6 inhibitors, may increase plasma concentrations of methadone, prolong opioid adverse reactions, and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of Methadone Hydrochloride Injection is achieved. Similarly, discontinuation of concomitant CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, or CYP2C9 inducers in Methadone Hydrochloride Injection-treated patients may increase methadone plasma concentrations resulting in fatal respiratory depression. Consider dosage reduction of Methadone Hydrochloride Injection when using concomitant CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9 or CYP2D6 inhibitors or discontinuing CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, or CYP2C9 inducers in methadone-treated patients, and follow patients closely at frequent intervals for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Addition of CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, or CYP2C9 inducers or discontinuation of a CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, or CYP2D6 inhibitors in patients treated with Methadone Hydrochloride Injection may decrease methadone plasma concentrations, reducing efficacy and may lead to opioid withdrawal symptoms in patients physically dependent on methadone. When using Methadone Hydrochloride Injection with CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, or CYP2C9 inducers or discontinuing CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, or CYP2D6 inhibitors, follow patients for signs or symptoms of opioid withdrawal and consider increasing the Methadone Hydrochloride Injection dosage as needed. Opioid-Induced Hyperalgesia and Allodynia Opioid-Induced Hyperalgesia (OIH) occurs when an opioid analgesic paradoxically causes an increase in pain, or an increase in sensitivity to pain. This condition differs from tolerance, which is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect (see Dependence). Symptoms of OIH include (but may not be limited to) increased levels of pain upon opioid dosage increase, decreased levels of pain upon opioid dosage decrease, or pain from ordinarily non-painful stimuli (allodynia). These symptoms may suggest OIH only if there is no evidence of underlying disease progression, opioid tolerance, opioid withdrawal, or addictive behavior. Cases of OIH have been reported, both with short-term and longer-term use of opioid analgesics. Though the mechanism of OIH is not fully understood, multiple biochemical pathways have been implicated. Medical literature suggests a strong biologic plausibility between opioid analgesics and OIH and allodynia. If a patient is suspected to be experiencing OIH, carefully consider appropriately decreasing the dose of the current opioid analgesic, or opioid rotation (safely switching the patient to a different opioid moiety) (see WARNINGS ; DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Serotonin Syndrome with Concomitant Use of Serotonergic Drugs Cases of serotonin syndrome, a potentially life-threatening condition, have been reported during concomitant use of methadone with serotonergic drugs. Serotonergic drugs include selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), and drugs that impair metabolism of serotonin (including MAO inhibitors, both those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue) (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). This may occur within the recommended dosage range. Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, hyperthermia), neuromuscular aberrations (e.g., hyperreflexia, incoordination, rigidity), and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea) and can be fatal. The onset of symptoms generally occurs within several hours to a few days of concomitant use, but may occur later than that. Discontinue Methadone Hydrochloride Injection if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Adrenal Insufficiency Cases of adrenal insufficiency have been reported with opioid use, more often following greater than one month of use. Presentation of adrenal insufficiency may include non-specific symptoms and signs including nausea, vomiting, anorexia, fatigue, weakness, dizziness, and low blood pressure. If adrenal insufficiency is suspected, confirm the diagnosis with diagnostic testing as soon as possible. If adrenal insufficiency is diagnosed, treat with physiologic replacement doses of corticosteroids. Wean the patient off of the opioid to allow adrenal function to recover and continue corticosteroid treatment until adrenal function recovers. Other opioids may be tried as some cases reported use of a different opioid without recurrence of adrenal insufficiency. The information available does not identify any particular opioids as being more likely to be associated with adrenal insufficiency. Severe Hypotension Methadone Hydrochloride Injection may cause severe hypotension including orthostatic hypotension and syncope in ambulatory patients. There is increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume, or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs (e.g., phenothiazines or general anesthetics). Monitor these patients for signs of hypotension after initiating or titrating the dosage of Methadone Hydrochloride Injection. In patients with circulatory shock, Methadone Hydrochloride Injection may cause vasodilation that can further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure. Avoid the use of Methadone Hydrochloride Injection in patients with circulatory shock. Risks of Use in Patients with Increased Intracranial Pressure, Brain Tumors, Head Injury, or Impaired Consciousness In patients who may be susceptible to the intracranial effects of CO 2 retention (e.g., those with evidence of increased intracranial pressure or brain tumors), Methadone Hydrochloride Injection may reduce respiratory drive, and the resultant CO 2 retention can further increase intracranial pressure. Monitor such patients for signs of sedation and respiratory depression, particularly when initiating therapy with Methadone Hydrochloride Injection. Opioids may also obscure the clinical course in a patient with a head injury. Avoid the use of Methadone Hydrochloride Injection in patients with impaired consciousness or coma. Risks of Gastrointestinal Complications Methadone Hydrochloride Injection is contraindicated in patients with known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. The methadone in Methadone Hydrochloride Injection may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi. Opioids may cause increases in the serum amylase. Regularly evaluate patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis, for worsening symptoms. Cases of opioid-induced esophageal dysfunction (OIED) have been reported in patients taking opioids. The risk of OIED may increase as the dose and/or duration of opioids increases. Regularly evaluate patients for signs and symptoms of OIED (e.g., dysphagia, regurgitation, non-cardiac chest pain) and, if necessary, adjust opioid therapy as clinically appropriate (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacodynamics ). Increased Risk of Seizures in Patients with Seizure Disorders The methadone in Methadone Hydrochloride Injection may increase the frequency of seizures in patients with seizure disorders, and may increase the risk of seizures in other clinical settings associated with seizures. Monitor patients with a history of seizure disorders for worsened seizure control during Methadone Hydrochloride Injection therapy. Withdrawal Avoid the use of mixed agonist/antagonist (i.e., pentazocine, nalbuphine, and butorphanol) or partial agonist (e.g., buprenorphine) analgesics in patients who are receiving a full opioid agonist, including Methadone Hydrochloride Injection. In these patients, mixed agonists/antagonist and partial agonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and/or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms (see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions ). When discontinuing Methadone Hydrochloride Injection, gradually taper the dosage (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) . Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue Methadone Hydrochloride Injection in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ). Risks Driving and Operating Machinery Methadone Hydrochloride Injection may impair the mental or physical abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving a car or operating machinery. Warn patients not to drive or operate dangerous machinery unless they are tolerant to the effects of Methadone Hydrochloride Injection and know how they will react to the medication (see PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients ). Hypoglycemia Cases of methadone-associated hypoglycemia have been reported, some resulting in hospitalization. In many cases, patients had predisposing risk factors (e.g., diabetes). The relationship between methadone and hypoglycemia is not fully understood but may be dose dependent. If hypoglycemia is suspected, monitor blood glucose levels, and manage the patient as clinically appropriate. Assess each patient's risk for opioid addiction, abuse, or misuse prior to prescribing Methadone Hydrochloride Injection, and reassess all patients receiving Methadone Hydrochloride Injection for the development of these behaviors and conditions. Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid antagonists, depending on the patient's clinical status. Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result from the concomitant use of Methadone Hydrochloride Injection with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol (e.g., non-benzodiazepine sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids). The balance between the risks of NOWS and the benefits of maternal Methadone Hydrochloride Injection use may differ based on the risks associated with the mother's underlying condition, pain or addiction, and the risks of the alternative treatments. For management of pain, prescribers should discuss all available treatment options with females of reproductive potential, including non-opioid and non-pharmacologic options. Untreated opioid addiction often results in continued or relapsing illicit opioid use and is associated with poor pregnancy outcomes. This condition differs from tolerance, which is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect (see Dependence ). Risks of Use in Patients with Gastrointestinal Conditions Methadone Hydrochloride Injection is contraindicated in patients with known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. Monitor patients with biliary tract disease, including acute pancreatitis, for worsening symptoms. When discontinuing Methadone Hydrochloride Injection, gradually taper the dosage (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Do not abruptly discontinue Methadone Hydrochloride Injection (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ). Management of respiratory depression may include close observation, supportive measures, and use of opioid antagonists, depending on the patient’s clinical status. If a patient is suspected to be experiencing OIH, carefully consider appropriately decreasing the dose of the current opioid analgesic, or opioid rotation (safely switching the patient to a different opioid moiety) (see WARNINGS : DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Methadone Hydrochloride Injection is contraindicated in patients with: • Significant respiratory depression • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus • Hypersensitivity to methadone hydrochloride (e.g. anaphylaxis) or any other ingredient in Methadone Hydrochloride Injection. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Methadone Hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 )] Hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to methadone or any other ingredient in Methadone Hydrochloride [see Adverse Reactions ( 6 )] Significant respiratory depression ( 4 ) Acute or severe bronchial asthma ( 4 ) Known or suspected paralytic ileus ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to methadone ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Methadone Hydrochloride Injection is contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus Hypersensitivity to methadone hydrochloride (e.g. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Methadone hydrochloride oral concentrate is contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )] Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.13 )] Hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to methadone or any other ingredient in methadone hydrochloride oral concentrate [see Adverse Reactions ( 6 )] Significant respiratory depression ( 4 ) Acute or severe bronchial asthma ( 4 ) Known or suspected paralytic ileus ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to methadone ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Methadone hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)]. Hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to methadone [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. Significant respiratory depression (4) Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment (4) Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus (4) Hypersensitivity to methadone (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Methadone Hydrochloride tablets, USP are contraindicated in patients with: • Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)]. • Hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to methadone [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. • Significant respiratory depression (4) • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment (4) • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus (4) • Hypersensitivity to methadone (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Methadone hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.2 ) ]. Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.10 ) ]. Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.14 ) ]. Hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to methadone [see ADVERSE REACTIONS ( 6 ) ]. Significant respiratory depression ( 4 ) Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment ( 4 ) Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to methadone ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Methadone hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] . Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 )] . Hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to methadone [see Adverse Reactions ( 6 )] .
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Table 1: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Methadone Hydrochloride Injection Inhibitors of CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, or CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: Methadone undergoes hepatic N-demethylation by several cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms, including CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6. The concomitant use of Methadone Hydrochloride Injection and CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, or CYP2D6 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of methadone, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, and may result in a fatal overdose, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of Methadone Hydrochloride Injection is achieved. These effects may be more pronounced with concomitant use of drugs that inhibit more than one of the CYP enzymes listed above. After stopping a CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, or CYP2D6 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the methadone plasma concentration can decrease (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ), resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or withdrawal symptoms in patients physically dependent on methadone. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of Methadone Hydrochloride Injection until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. If a CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, or CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued, follow patients for signs of opioid withdrawal and consider increasing the Methadone Hydrochloride Injection dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Examples: Macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), fluconazole, fluvoxamine, Some selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) (e.g., sertraline, fluvoxamine) Inducers of CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, or CYP2C9 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of Methadone Hydrochloride Injection and CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, or CYP2C9 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of methadone (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ), resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in patients physically dependent on methadone. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of drugs that can induce multiple CYP enzymes. After stopping a CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, or CYP2C9 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the methadone plasma concentration can increase (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ), which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression, sedation, or death. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the Methadone Hydrochloride Injection dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. If a CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, or CYP2C9 inducer is discontinued, consider Methadone Hydrochloride Injection dosage reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Examples: Rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin, St. John’s Wort, Phenobarbital Benzodiazepines and other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death (see WARNINGS ). Intervention: Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Monitor patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation (see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS ). Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, gabapentinoids (gabapentin or pregabalin), other opioids, alcohol. Potentially Arrhythmogenic Agents Clinical Impact: Pharmacodynamic interactions may occur with concomitant use of methadone and potentially arrhythmogenic agents or drugs capable of inducing electrolyte disturbances (hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia). Intervention: Monitor patients closely for cardiac conduction changes. Examples: Drugs known to have potential to prolong QT interval : Class I and III antiarrhythmics, some neuroleptics and tricyclic antidepressants, and calcium channel blockers. Drugs capable of inducing electrolyte disturbances : Diuretics, laxatives, and, in rare cases, mineralocortocoid hormones. Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome (see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS ). Intervention: If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue Methadone Hydrochloride Injection if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Examples: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that effect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome (see PRECAUTIONS ) or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) (see PRECAUTIONS ) . Intervention: The use of Methadone Hydrochloride Injection is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of Methadone Hydrochloride Injection and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use. Examples: butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, buprenorphine Muscle Relaxants Clinical Impact: Methadone may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of Methadone Hydrochloride Injection and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Examples: cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Anticholinergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when Methadone Hydrochloride Injection is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Anti-Retroviral Agents Nevirapine Based on the known metabolism of methadone, nevirapine may decrease plasma concentrations of methadone by increasing its hepatic metabolism. Opioid withdrawal syndrome has been reported in patients treated with nevirapine and methadone concomitantly. Methadone-maintained patients beginning nevirapine therapy should be monitored for evidence of withdrawal and methadone dose should be adjusted accordingly. Efavirenz Coadministration of efavirenz in HIV-infected methadone-maintenance patients has resulted in decreased methadone plasma concentrations of methadone associated with signs of opioid withdrawal, and necessitating increases in methadone dose. Ritonavir and Ritonavir/Lopinavir Reduced plasma methadone levels have been observed after administration of ritonavir alone or ritonavir/lopinavir combination. Withdrawal symptoms were however, inconsistently observed. Caution is warranted when administering methadone to patients receiving ritonavir-containing regimens in addition to other drugs known to decrease methadone plasma levels. Zidovudine Experimental evidence suggests that methadone increases the area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) of zidovudine with possible toxic effects. Didanosine and Stavudine Experimental evidence suggests that methadone decreased the AUC and peak levels for didanosine and stavudine, with a more significant decrease for didanosine. Methadone disposition was not substantially altered. Desipramine Blood levels of desipramine have increased with concurrent methadone therapy. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, increases the risk of respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Intervention: Cessation of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants is preferred in most cases of concomitant use. In some cases, monitoring in a higher level of care for taper may be appropriate. In others, gradually tapering a patient off of a prescribed benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant or decreasing to the lowest effective dose may be appropriate. Before co-prescribing benzodiazepines for anxiety or insomnia, ensure that patients are appropriately diagnosed and consider alternative medications and non-pharmacologic treatments [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . If concomitant use is warranted, strongly consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent, as is recommended for all patients in treatment for opioid use disorder [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Examples: Alcohol, benzodiazepines, and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, gabapentinoids (gabapentin or pregabalin), other opioids. Inhibitors of CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, or CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: Methadone undergoes hepatic N-demethylation by several cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms, including CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6. The concomitant use of methadone and CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, or CYP2D6 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of methadone, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, and may result in a fatal overdose, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of methadone is achieved. After stopping a CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, or CYP2D6 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the methadone plasma concentration can decrease [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or withdrawal symptoms in patients physically dependent on methadone. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of methadone until stable drug effects are achieved. If a CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, or CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued, follow patients for signs of opioid withdrawal and consider increasing the methadone dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Examples: Macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g., ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), fluconazole, fluvoxamine, some selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) (e.g., sertraline, fluvoxamine) Inducers of CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, or CYP2C9 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of methadone and CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, or CYP2C9 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of methadone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in patients physically dependent on methadone. After stopping a CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, or CYP2C9 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the methadone plasma concentration can increase [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression, sedation, or death. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the methadone dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. If a CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, or CYP2C9 inducer is discontinued, consider methadone dosage reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. John’s Wort, Phenobarbital Potentially Arrhythmogenic Agents Clinical Impact: Pharmacodynamic interactions may occur with concomitant use of methadone and potentially arrhythmogenic agents or drugs capable of inducing electrolyte disturbances (hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia). Examples: Drugs known to have potential to prolong QT interval: Class I and III antiarrhythmics, some neuroleptics and tricyclic antidepressants, and calcium channel blockers. Drugs capable of inducing electrolyte disturbances: Diuretics, laxatives, and, in rare cases, mineralocorticoid hormones. Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] . Discontinue Methadone Hydrochloride if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Examples: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.9 )] . Intervention: The use of Methadone Hydrochloride is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Examples: phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: Patients maintained on methadone may experience withdrawal symptoms when given opioid antagonists, mixed agonist/antagonists, and partial agonists. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of Methadone Hydrochloride and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, strongly consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent, as is recommended for all patients in treatment for opioid use disorder [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 )] . Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when Methadone Hydrochloride is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Paradoxical Effects of Anti-Retroviral Agents on Methadone Concurrent use of certain protease inhibitors with CYP3A4 inhibitory activity, alone and in combination, such as abacavir, amprenavir, darunavir+ritonavir, efavirenz, nelfinavir, nevirapine, ritonavir, telaprevir, lopinavir+ritonavir, saquinavir+ritonavir, and tipranvir+ritonavir, has resulted in increased clearance or decreased plasma levels of methadone. This may result in reduced efficacy of Methadone Hydrochloride and could precipitate a withdrawal syndrome. Monitor patients receiving Methadone Hydrochloride and any of these anti-retroviral therapies closely for evidence of withdrawal effects and adjust the Methadone Hydrochloride dose accordingly. Effects of Methadone on Anti-Retroviral Agents Didanosine and Stavudine Experimental evidence demonstrated that methadone decreased the area under the concentration- time curve (AUC) and peak levels for didanosine and stavudine, with a more significant decrease for didanosine. Zidovudine Experimental evidence demonstrated that methadone increased the AUC of zidovudine which could result in toxic effects. Effects of Methadone on Antidepressants Desipramine Plasma levels of desipramine have increased with concurrent methadone administration. Potentially Arrhythmogenic Agents : Monitor patients closely for cardiac conduction changes. ( 7 ) Interactions with CNS Depressants : Consider dose reduction of one or both drugs because of additive effects. ( 7 ) Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioids : Avoid concomitant use with Methadone Hydrochloride because it may precipitate withdrawal symptoms. ( 5.15 , 7 ) Drug Interactions Inhibitors of CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, or CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: Methadone undergoes hepatic N-demethylation by several cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms, including CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6. John's Wort, Phenobarbital Benzodiazepines and other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants including alcohol, increases the risk of respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Follow patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation (see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS ). Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, alcohol. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome (see PRECAUTIONS ) or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) (see PRECAUTIONS ). Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. If concomitant use is warranted, strongly consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose, as is recommended for all patients in treatment for opioid use disorder [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Examples: Alcohol, benzodiazepines, and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids. Drugs capable of inducing electrolyte disturbances: Diuretics, laxatives, and, in rare cases, mineralocortocoid hormones. Discontinue methadone hydrochloride oral concentrate if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Intervention: The use of methadone hydrochloride oral concentrate is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of methadone hydrochloride oral concentrate and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, strongly consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 )] . Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when methadone hydrochloride oral concentrate is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. This may result in reduced efficacy of methadone hydrochloride oral concentrate and could precipitate a withdrawal syndrome. Monitor patients receiving methadone hydrochloride oral concentrate and any of these anti-retroviral therapies closely for evidence of withdrawal effects and adjust the methadone hydrochloride oral concentrate dose accordingly. Effects of Methadone on Anti-Retroviral Agents Didanosine and Stavudine Experimental evidence demonstrated that methadone decreased the area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) and peak levels for didanosine and stavudine, with a more significant decrease for didanosine. ( 7 ) Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioids : Avoid concomitant use with methadone hydrochloride oral concentrate because it may precipitate withdrawal symptoms. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Inhibitors of CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, or CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: Methadone undergoes hepatic N-demethylation by several cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms, including CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6. The concomitant use of methadone hydrochloride tablets and CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, or CYP2D6 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of methadone, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, and may result in a fatal overdose, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of methadone hydrochloride tablets is achieved. After stopping a CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, or CYP2D6 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the methadone plasma concentration can decrease [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)], resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or withdrawal symptoms in patients physically dependent on methadone. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of methadone hydrochloride tablets until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate patients at frequent intervals for respiratory depression and sedation. If a CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, or CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the methadone hydrochloride tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate for signs of opioid withdrawal. Examples: Macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), fluconazole, fluvoxamine, some selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) (e.g., sertraline, fluvoxamine) Inducers of CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, or CYP2C9 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of methadone hydrochloride tablets and CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, or CYP2C9 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of methadone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)], resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in patients physically dependent on methadone. After stopping a CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, or CYP2C9 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the methadone plasma concentration can increase [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)], which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression, sedation, or death. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the methadone hydrochloride tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. If a CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, or CYP2C9 inducer is discontinued, consider methadone hydrochloride tablets dosage reduction and evaluate patients at frequent intervals for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. John’s Wort, Phenobarbital Benzodiazepines and other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Intervention: For Patients Being Treated for Pain Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction, educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.3)]. For Patients Being Treated for Opioid Addiction Cessation of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants is preferred in most cases of concomitant use. Before co-prescribing benzodiazepines for anxiety or insomnia, ensure that patients are appropriately diagnosed and consider alternative medications and non-pharmacologic treatments. If concomitant use is warranted, strongly consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose, as is recommended for all patients in treatment for opioid use disorder [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.3)]. Intervention: Evaluate patients closely for cardiac conduction changes. Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Intervention: If concomitant use is warranted, frequently evaluate the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue methadone hydrochloride tablets immediately if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Intervention: The use of methadone hydrochloride tablets is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of methadone hydrochloride tablets and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Examples: Butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, buprenorphine. Muscle Relaxants Clinical Impact: Methadone may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of methadone hydrochloride tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3)] Examples: cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs for diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when methadone hydrochloride tablets are used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Paradoxical Effects of Antiretroviral Agents on Methadone Hydrochloride Tablets Concurrent use of certain antiretroviral agents with CYP3A4 inhibitory activity, alone and in combination, such as abacavir, amprenavir, darunavir+ritonavir, efavirenz, nelfinavir, nevirapine, ritonavir, telaprevir, lopinavir+ritonavir, saquinavir+ritonavir, and tipranavir+ritonavir, has resulted in increased clearance or decreased plasma levels of methadone. This may result in reduced efficacy of methadone hydrochloride tablets and could precipitate a withdrawal syndrome. Monitor methadone-maintained patients receiving any of these anti-retroviral therapies closely for evidence of withdrawal effects and adjust the methadone dose accordingly. Effects of Methadone Hydrochloride Tablets on Antiretroviral Agents Didanosine and Stavudine: Experimental evidence demonstrated that methadone decreased the area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) and peak levels for didanosine and stavudine, with a more significant decrease for didanosine. Zidovudine: Experimental evidence demonstrated that methadone increased the AUC of zidovudine, which could result in toxic effects. Effects of Methadone Hydrochloride Tablets on Antidepressants Desipramine: Blood levels of desipramine have increased with concurrent methadone administration. Anti-Retroviral Agents: May result in decreased efficacy or, in certain cases, increased toxicity. (7) Potentially Arrhythmogenic Agents: Pharmacodynamic interactions may occur. Regularly evaluate patients closely for cardiac conduction changes. (7) Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics: Avoid use with methadone hydrochloride tablets because they may reduce analgesic effect of methadone hydrochloride tablets or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. (5.16, 7) Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): Can potentiate the effects of methadone. Avoid concomitant use in patients receiving MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping treatment with an MAOI. (7) The concomitant use of Methadone Hydrochloride Injection and CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, or CYP2D6 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of methadone, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects, and may result in fatal overdose, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of Methadone Hydrochloride Injection is achieved. If CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, or CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued, follow patients for signs of opioid withdrawal and consider increasing the Methadone Hydrochloride Injection dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. After stopping a CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C9 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the methadone plasma concentration can increase (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ), which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression, sedation, or death. If a CYP3A4, CTP2B6, CYP2C19, or CYP2C9 inducer is discontinued, consider Methadone Hydrochloride Injection dosage reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. John's Wort, Phenobarbital Benzodiazepines and other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to addictive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants including alcohol, increases the risk of respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Limit dosages and duration to the minimum required. Follow patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation (see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS ) Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, alcohol. Drugs capable of inducing electrolyte disturbances : Diuretics, laxatives, and, in rare cases, mineralocorticoid hormones. Discontinue Methadone Hydrochloride Injection if serotonin syndrome us suspected. Anticholinergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or sever constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Anti-Retroviral Agents Nevirapine: Based on the known metabolism of methadone, nevirapine may decrease plasma concentrations of methadone by increasing its hepatic metabolism. Efavirenz: Coadministration of efavirenz in HIV-infected methadone-maintenance patients has resulted in decreased methadone plasma concentrations of methadone associated with signs of opioid withdrawal, and necessitating increases in methadone dose. Ritonavir and Ritonavir/Lopinavir: Reduced plasma methadone levels have been observed after administration of ritonavir alone or ritonavir/lopinavir combination. Zidovudine: Experimental evidence suggests that methadone increases the area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) of zidovudine with possible toxic effects. Didanosine and Stavudine: Experimental evidence suggests that methadone decreased the AUC and peak levels for didanosine and stavudine, with a more significant decrease for didanosine. Desipramine: Blood levels of desipramine have increased with concurrent methadone therapy. If a CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, or CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued, follow patients for signs of opioid withdrawal and consider increasing the methadone hydrochloride tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Examples : Macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. If a CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, or CYP2C9 inducer is discontinued, consider methadone hydrochloride tablets dosage reduction and monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. John’s Wort, Phenobarbital Benzodiazepines and other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants including alcohol, increases the risk of respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Follow patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] For Patients Being Treated for Opioid Addiction Cessation of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants is preferred in most cases of concomitant use. Discontinue methadone hydrochloride tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Examples: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that effect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine , metaxalone), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of methadone hydrochloride tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when methadone hydrochloride tablets are used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. • Anti-Retroviral Agents: May result in decreased efficacy or, in certain cases, increased toxicity. (7) • Potentially Arrhythmogenic Agents: Pharmacodynamic interactions may occur. Monitor patients closely for cardiac conduction changes. (7) • Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics: Avoid use with methadone hydrochloride tablets because they may reduce analgesic effect of methadone hydrochloride tablets or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. (5.15, 7) • Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): Can potentiate the effects of methadone. After stopping a CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, or CYP2D6 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the methadone plasma concentration can decrease [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 ) ], resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or withdrawal symptoms in patients physically dependent on methadone. ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), fluconazole, fluvoxamine, some selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) (e.g., sertraline, fluvoxamine) Inducers of CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, or CYP2C9 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of methadone hydrochloride tablets and CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, or CYP2C9 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of methadone [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 ) ], resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in patients physically dependent on methadone. After stopping a CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, or CYP2C9 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the methadone plasma concentration can increase [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 ) ], which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression, sedation, or death. John’s Wort, Phenobarbital Benzodiazepines and other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Intervention: For Patients Being Treated for Pain: Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. If concomitant use is warranted, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent. For Patients Being Treated for Opioid Addiction: Cessation of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants is preferred in most cases of concomitant use. If concomitant use is warranted, strongly consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent, as is recommended for all patients in treatment for opioid use disorder [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 ) ]. Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.9 ) ] . Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.9 ) ] or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.2 ) ] . Intervention: Because respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected, decrease the dosage of methadone hydrochloride tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent. Examples: Cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Evaluate methadone-maintained patients receiving any of these anti-retroviral therapies closely for evidence of withdrawal effects and adjust the methadone dose accordingly. Effects of Methadone Hydrochloride Tablets on Antiretroviral Agents Didanosine and Stavudine :Experimental evidence demonstrated that methadone decreased the area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) and peak levels for didanosine and stavudine, with a more significant decrease for didanosine. Zidovudine : Experimental evidence demonstrated that methadone increased the AUC of zidovudine, which could result in toxic effects. Effects of Methadone Hydrochloride Tablets on Antidepressants Desipramine : Blood levels of desipramine have increased with concurrent methadone administration. Anti-Retroviral Agents : May result in decreased efficacy or, in certain cases, increased toxicity. ( 7 ) Potentially Arrhythmogenic Agents : Pharmacodynamic interactions may occur. ( 7 ) Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics : Avoid use with methadone hydrochloride tablets because they may reduce analgesic effect of methadone hydrochloride tablets or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. ( 5.16 , 7 ) Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) : Can potentiate the effects of methadone. ( 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS A nti - R e t rov i r a l Agents : May result in decreased efficacy or, in certain cases, increased toxicity. ( 7 ) Po t e ntia ll y Arrhythmogenic Agents : Pharmacodynamic interactions may occur. ( 7 ) Mi x e d Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics : Avoid use with methadone hydrochloride tablets because they may reduce analgesic effect of methadone hydrochloride tablets or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. ( 5.16 , 7 ) M o n o a m in e Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) : Can potentiate the effects of methadone. ( 7 ) Inhibitors of CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, or CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: Methadone undergoes hepatic N-demethylation by several cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms, including CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6. ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), fluconazole, fluvoxamine, some selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) (e.g., sertraline, fluvoxamine) Inducers of CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, or CYP2C9 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of methadone hydrochloride tablets and CYP3A4, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, or CYP2C9 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of methadone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of withdrawal symptoms in patients physically dependent on methadone. If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 )] . If concomitant use is warranted, strongly consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose, as is recommended for all patients in treatment for opioid use disorder [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 )] . Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )]. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Intervention: Because respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected, decrease the dosage of methadone hydrochloride tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.3 )] Examples: Cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Effects of Methadone Hydrochloride Tablets on Antiretroviral Agents Didanosine and Stavudine : Experimental evidence demonstrated that methadone decreased the area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) and peak levels for didanosine and stavudine, with a more significant decrease for didanosine.

=== MODAFINIL ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Modafinil tablets are indicated to improve wakefulness in adult patients with excessive sleepiness associated with narcolepsy, obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), or shift work disorder (SWD). Limitations of Use In OSA, modafinil tablets are indicated to treat excessive sleepiness and not as treatment for the underlying obstruction. If continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is the treatment of choice for a patient, a maximal effort to treat with CPAP for an adequate period of time should be made prior to initiating and during treatment with modafinil tablets for excessive sleepiness. Modafinil tablets are indicated to improve wakefulness in adult patients with excessive sleepiness associated with narcolepsy, obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), or shift work disorder (SWD). ( 1 ) Limitations of Use In OSA, modafinil tablets are indicated to treat excessive sleepiness and not as treatment for the underlying obstruction. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE PROVIGIL is indicated to improve wakefulness in adult patients with excessive sleepiness associated with narcolepsy, obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), or shift work disorder (SWD). Limitations of Use In OSA, PROVIGIL is indicated to treat excessive sleepiness and not as treatment for the underlying obstruction. If continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is the treatment of choice for a patient, a maximal effort to treat with CPAP for an adequate period of time should be made prior to initiating and during treatment with PROVIGIL for excessive sleepiness. PROVIGIL is indicated to improve wakefulness in adult patients with excessive sleepiness associated with narcolepsy, obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), or shift work disorder (SWD). ( 1 ) Limitations of Use In OSA, PROVIGIL is indicated to treat excessive sleepiness and not as treatment for the underlying obstruction. Limitations of Use In OSA, modafinil is indicated to treat excessive sleepiness and not as treatment for the underlying obstruction. If continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is the treatment of choice for a patient, a maximal effort to treat with CPAP for an adequate period of time should be made prior to initiating and during treatment with modafinil for excessive sleepiness. Limitations of Use In OSA, modafinil tablets are indicated to treat excessive sleepiness and not astreatment for the underlying obstruction. (1) Limitations of Use In OSA, modafinil tablets are indicated to treat excessive sleepiness and not as treatment for the underlying obstruction.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of modafinil tablets for each indication is as follows: • Narcolepsy or OSA: 200 mg once a day in the morning. ( 2.1 ) • SWD: 200 mg once a day, taken approximately one hour prior to start of the work shift. ( 2.2 ) • Severe Hepatic Impairment: reduce dose to half the recommended dose. ( 2.3 , 12.3 ) • Geriatric Patients: consider lower dose. ( 2.4 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Dosage in Narcolepsy and Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) The recommended dosage of modafinil tablets for patients with narcolepsy or OSA is 200 mg taken orally once a day as a single dose in the morning. Doses up to 400 mg/day, given as a single dose, have been well tolerated, but there is no consistent evidence that this dose confers additional benefit beyond that of the 200 mg/day dose [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.1 , 14.2 )] . 2.2 Dosage in Shift Work Disorder (SWD) The recommended dosage of modafinil tablets for patients with SWD is 200 mg taken orally once a day as a single dose approximately 1 hour prior to the start of their work shift . 2.3 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Severe Hepatic Impairment In patients with severe hepatic impairment, the dosage of modafinil tablets should be reduced to one-half of that recommended for patients with normal hepatic function [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.4 Use in Geriatric Patients Consideration should be given to the use of lower doses and close monitoring in geriatric patients [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of PROVIGIL for each indication is as follows: Narcolepsy or OSA: 200 mg once a day in the morning. ( 2.1 ) SWD: 200 mg once a day, taken approximately one hour prior to start of the work shift. ( 2.2 ) Severe Hepatic Impairment: reduce dose to half the recommended dose. ( 2.3 , 12.3 ) Geriatric Patients: consider lower dose. ( 2.4 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Dosage in Narcolepsy and Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) The recommended dosage of PROVIGIL for patients with narcolepsy or OSA is 200 mg taken orally once a day as a single dose in the morning. 2.2 Dosage in Shift Work Disorder (SWD) The recommended dosage of PROVIGIL for patients with SWD is 200 mg taken orally once a day as a single dose approximately 1 hour prior to the start of their work shift . 2.3 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Severe Hepatic Impairment In patients with severe hepatic impairment, the dosage of PROVIGIL should be reduced to one-half of that recommended for patients with normal hepatic function [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of modafinil for each indication is as follows: Narcolepsy or OSA: 200 mg once a day in the morning. ( 2.2 ) Severe Hepatic Impairment: reduce dose to half the recommended dose ( 2.3 , 12.3 ) Geriatric Patients: consider lower dose. ( 2.4 , 12.3 ) 2.1 Dosage in Narcolepsy and Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) The recommended dosage of modafinil for patients with narcolepsy or OSA is 200 mg taken orally once a day as a single dose in the morning. 2.2 Dosage in Shift Work Disorder (SWD) The recommended dosage of modafinil for patients with SWD is 200 mg taken orally once a day as a single dose approximately 1-hour prior to the start of their work shift . 2.3 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Severe Hepatic Impairment In patients with severe hepatic impairment, the dosage of modafinil should be reduced to one-half of that recommended for patients with normal hepatic function [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of modafinil tablets for each indication are as follows: Narcolepsy or OSA: 200 mg once a day in the morning. (2.1) SWD: 200 mg once a day, taken approximately one hour prior to start of the work shift (2.2) Severe Hepatic Impairment: reduce dose to half the recommended dose. (2.3, 12.3) Geriatric Patients: consider lower dose. (2.4, 12.3) 2.1 Dosage in Narcolepsy and Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) The recommended dosage of modafinil tablets for patients with narcolepsy or OSA is 200 mg taken orally once a day as a single dose in the morning. Doses up to 400 mg/day, given as a single dose, have been well tolerated, but there is no consistent evidence that this dose confers additional benefit beyond that of the 200 mg/day dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Clinical Studies (14.1 , 14.2 )]. 2.2 Dosage in Shift Work Disorder (SWD) The recommended dosage of modafinil tablets for patients with SWD is 200 mg taken orally once a day as a single dose approximately 1 hour prior to the start of their work shift. 2.3 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Severe Hepatic Impairment In patients with severe hepatic impairment, the dosage of modafinil tablets should be reduced to one-half of that recommended for patients with normal hepatic function [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.4 Use in Geriatric Patients Consideration should be given to the use of lower doses and close monitoring in geriatric patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)] . 2.1 Dosage in Narcolepsy and Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) The recommended dosage of modafinil tablets for patients with narcolepsy or OSA is 200 mg taken orally once a day as a single dose in the morning. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of modafinil tablets for each indication is as follows: Narcolepsy or OSA: 200 mg once a day in the morning. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of modafinil tablets for each indication is as follows: · Narcolepsy or OSA: 200 mg once a day in the morning. (2.1) · SWD: 200 mg once a day, taken approximately one hour prior to start of the work shift. (2.2) · Severe Hepatic Impairment: reduce dose to half the recommended dose. (2.3, 12.3) · Geriatric Patients: consider lower dose. Doses up to 400 mg/day, given as a single dose, have been well tolerated, but there is no consistent evidence that this dose confers additional benefit beyond that of the 200 mg/day dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Clinical Studies (14.1, 14.2)] . 2.3 Dosage Modifications in Patients with Severe Hepatic Impairment In patients with severe hepatic impairment, the dosage of modafinil tablets should be reduced to one-half of that recommended for patients with normal hepatic function [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] .
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Modafinil is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to modafinil or armodafinil or its inactive ingredients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 )] . Modafinil is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to modafinil or armodafinil. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS PROVIGIL is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to modafinil or armodafinil or its inactive ingredients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 )] . PROVIGIL is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to modafinil or armodafinil. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Modafinil tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to modafinil or armodafinil or its inactive ingredients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2 , 5.3) ]. Modafinil tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to modafinil or armodafinil. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Modafinil tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to modafinil or armodafinil or its inactive ingredients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 )] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Modafinil tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to modafinil or armodafinil or its inactive ingredients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.3)] . (4)
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Effects of Modafinil on CYP3A4/5 Substrates The clearance of drugs that are substrates for CYP3A4/5 (e.g., steroidal contraceptives, cyclosporine, midazolam, and triazolam) may be increased by modafinil via induction of metabolic enzymes, which results in lower systemic exposure. Dosage adjustment of these drugs should be considered when these drugs are used concomitantly with modafinil [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . The effectiveness of steroidal contraceptives may be reduced when used with modafinil and for one month after discontinuation of therapy. Alternative or concomitant methods of contraception are recommended for patients taking steroidal contraceptives (e.g., ethinyl estradiol) when treated concomitantly with modafinil and for one month after discontinuation of modafinil treatment. Blood levels of cyclosporine may be reduced when used with modafinil. Monitoring of circulating cyclosporine concentrations and appropriate dosage adjustment for cyclosporine should be considered when used concomitantly with modafinil. Effects of Modafinil on CYP2C19 Substrates Elimination of drugs that are substrates for CYP2C19 (e.g., phenytoin, diazepam, propranolol, omeprazole, and clomipramine) may be prolonged by modafinil via inhibition of metabolic enzymes, with resultant higher systemic exposure. In individuals deficient in the CYP2D6 enzyme, the levels of CYP2D6 substrates which have ancillary routes of elimination through CYP2C19, such as tricyclic antidepressants and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, may be increased by co-administration of modafinil. Dose adjustments of these drugs and other drugs that are substrates for CYP2C19 may be necessary when used concomitantly with modafinil [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Warfarin More frequent monitoring of prothrombin times/INR should be considered whenever modafinil is coadministered with warfarin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Monoamine Oxidase (MAO) Inhibitors Caution should be used when concomitantly administering MAO inhibitors and modafinil. • Steroidal contraceptives (e.g., ethinyl estradiol): Use alternative or concomitant methods of contraception while taking modafinil and for one month after discontinuation of modafinil treatment. ( 7 ) • Cyclosporine: Blood concentrations of cyclosporine may be reduced. ( 7 ) • CYP2C19 substrates, such as omeprazole, phenytoin, and diazepam: Exposure of these medications may be increased. ( 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Effects of PROVIGIL on CYP3A4/5 Substrates The clearance of drugs that are substrates for CYP3A4/5 (e.g., steroidal contraceptives, cyclosporine, midazolam, and triazolam) may be increased by PROVIGIL via induction of metabolic enzymes, which results in lower systemic exposure. Dosage adjustment of these drugs should be considered when these drugs are used concomitantly with PROVIGIL [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . The effectiveness of steroidal contraceptives may be reduced when used with PROVIGIL and for one month after discontinuation of therapy. Alternative or concomitant methods of contraception are recommended for patients taking steroidal contraceptives (e.g., ethinyl estradiol) when treated concomitantly with PROVIGIL and for one month after discontinuation of PROVIGIL treatment. Blood levels of cyclosporine may be reduced when used with PROVIGIL. Monitoring of circulating cyclosporine concentrations and appropriate dosage adjustment for cyclosporine should be considered when used concomitantly with PROVIGIL. Effects of PROVIGIL on CYP2C19 Substrates Elimination of drugs that are substrates for CYP2C19 (e.g., phenytoin, diazepam, propranolol, omeprazole, and clomipramine) may be prolonged by PROVIGIL via inhibition of metabolic enzymes, with resultant higher systemic exposure. In individuals deficient in the CYP2D6 enzyme, the levels of CYP2D6 substrates which have ancillary routes of elimination through CYP2C19, such as tricyclic antidepressants and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, may be increased by co-administration of PROVIGIL. Dose adjustments of these drugs and other drugs that are substrates for CYP2C19 may be necessary when used concomitantly with PROVIGIL [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Warfarin More frequent monitoring of prothrombin times/INR should be considered whenever PROVIGIL is coadministered with warfarin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Monoamine Oxidase (MAO) Inhibitors Caution should be used when concomitantly administering MAO inhibitors and PROVIGIL. Steroidal contraceptives (e.g., ethinyl estradiol): Use alternative or concomitant methods of contraception while taking PROVIGIL and for one month after discontinuation of PROVIGIL treatment. ( 7 ) Cyclosporine: Blood concentrations of cyclosporine may be reduced. ( 7 ) CYP2C19 substrates, such as omeprazole, phenytoin, and diazepam: Exposure of these medications may be increased. Warfarin More frequent monitoring of prothrombin times/INR should be considered whenever modafinil is co-administered with warfarin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Steroidal contraceptives (e.g., ethinyl estradiol): Use alternative or concomitant methods of contraception while taking modafinil and for one month after discontinuation of modafinil treatment. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Effects of Modafinil Tablets on CYP3A4/5 Substrates The clearance of drugs that are substrates for CYP3A4/5 (e.g., steroidal contraceptives, cyclosporine, midazolam, and triazolam) may be increased by modafinil tablets via induction of metabolic enzymes, which results in lower systemic exposure. Dosage adjustment of these drugs should be considered when these drugs are used concomitantly with modafinil tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. The effectiveness of steroidal contraceptives may be reduced when used with modafinil tablets and for one month after discontinuation of therapy. Alternative or concomitant methods of contraception are recommended for patients taking steroidal contraceptives (e.g., ethinyl estradiol) when treated concomitantly with modafinil tablets and for one month after discontinuation of modafinil tablets treatment. Blood levels of cyclosporine may be reduced when used with modafinil tablets. Monitoring of circulating cyclosporine concentrations and appropriate dosage adjustment for cyclosporine should be considered when used concomitantly with modafinil tablets. Effects of Modafinil Tablets on CYP2C19 Substrates Elimination of drugs that are substrates for CYP2C19 (e.g., phenytoin, diazepam, propranolol, omeprazole, and clomipramine) may be prolonged by modafinil tablets via inhibition of metabolic enzymes, with resultant higher systemic exposure. In individuals deficient in the CYP2D6 enzyme, the levels of CYP2D6 substrates which have ancillary routes of elimination through CYP2C19, such as tricyclic antidepressants and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, may be increased by co-administration of modafinil tablets. Dose adjustments of these drugs and other drugs that are substrates for CYP2C19 may be necessary when used concomitantly with modafinil tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Warfarin More frequent monitoring of prothrombin times/INR should be considered whenever modafinil tablets are coadministered with warfarin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Monoamine Oxidase (MAO) Inhibitors Caution should be used when concomitantly administering MAO inhibitors and modafinil tablets. Steroidal contraceptives (e.g., ethinyl estradiol): Use alternative or concomitant methods of contraception while taking modafinil tablets and for one month after discontinuation of modafinil tablets treatment. (7) Cyclosporine: Blood concentrations of cyclosporine may be reduced. (7) CYP2C19 substrates, such as omeprazole, phenytoin, and diazepam: Exposure of these medications may be increased. (7) Dosage adjustment of these drugs should be considered when these drugs are used concomitantly with modafinil tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Dose adjustments of these drugs and other drugs that are substrates for CYP2C19 may be necessary when used concomitantly with modafinil tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Warfarin More frequent monitoring of prothrombin times/INR should be considered whenever modafinil tablets are coadministered with warfarin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Dosage adjustment of these drugs should be considered when these drugs are used concomitantly with modafinil [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . In individuals deficient in the CYP2D6 enzyme, the levels of CYP2D6 substrates which have ancillary routes of elimination through CYP2C19, such as tricyclic antidepressants and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, may be increased by coadministration of modafinil. Dose adjustments of these drugs and other drugs that are substrates for CYP2C19 may be necessary when used concomitantly with modafinil [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Warfarin More frequent monitoring of prothrombin times/INR should be considered whenever modafinil is coadministered with warfarin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . · Steroidal contraceptives (e.g., ethinyl estradiol): Use alternative or concomitant methods of contraception while taking modafinil and for one month after discontinuation of modafinil treatment. (7) · Cyclosporine: Blood concentrations of cyclosporine may be reduced. (7) · CYP2C19 substrates, such as omeprazole, phenytoin, and diazepam: Exposure of these medications may be increased.

=== MUPIROCIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antiseptic Purpose Skin Protectant
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mupirocin cream is indicated for the treatment of secondarily infected traumatic skin lesions (up to 10 cm in length or 100 cm 2 in area) due to susceptible isolates of Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) and Streptococcus pyogenes (S. pyogenes) . Mupirocin cream is an RNA synthetase inhibitor antibacterial indicated for the treatment of secondarily infected traumatic skin lesions (up to 10 cm in length or 100 cm 2 in area) due to susceptible isolates of Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes . ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mupirocin ointment is indicated for the topical treatment of impetigo due to susceptible isolates of Staphylococcus aureus (S. pyogenes). Mupirocin ointment is an RNA synthetase inhibitor antibacterial indicated for the topical treatment of impetigo due to susceptible isolates of Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mupirocin Ointment USP, 2% is indicated for the topical treatment of impetigo due to susceptible isolates of Staphylococcus aureus (S. Mupirocin Ointment USP, 2% is an RNA synthetase inhibitor antibacterial indicated for the topical treatment of impetigo due to susceptible isolates of Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mupirocin ointment USP, 2% is indicated for the topical treatment of impetigo due to: S. aureus and S. pyogenes. pyogenes . Uses surgical hand scrub: significantly reduces the number of microorganisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care healthcare personnel handwash: helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease patient preoperative skin preparation: for the preparation of the patient's skin prior to surgeryskin wound and general skin cleansing skin wound and general skin cleansing Uses for the treatment and/or prevention of diaper rash temporarily protects and helps relieve chapped or cracked skin (1)
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For Topical Use Only. Apply a small amount of mupirocin cream, with a cotton swab or gauze pad, to the affected area 3 times daily for 10 days. Cover the treated area with gauze dressing if desired. Re-evaluate patients not showing a clinical response within 3 to 5 days. Mupirocin cream is not for intranasal, ophthalmic, or other mucosal use [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.6 )]. Do not apply mupirocin cream concurrently with any other lotions, creams or ointments [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. For Topical Use Only. ( 2 ) Apply a small amount of mupirocin cream, with a cotton swab or gauze pad, to the affected area 3 times daily for 10 days. ( 2 ) Re-evaluate patients not showing a clinical response within 3 to 5 days. ( 2 ) Not for intranasal, ophthalmic, or other mucosal use. ( 2 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For Topical Use Only. • Apply a small amount of mupirocin ointment, with a cotton swab or gauze pad, to the affected area 3 times daily for up to 10 days. • Cover the treated area with gauze dressing if desired. • Re-evaluate patients not showing a clinical response within 3 to 5 days. • Mupirocin ointment is not for intranasal, ophthalmic, or other mucosal use [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.6 )] . • Do not apply mupirocin ointment concurrently with any other lotions, creams, or ointments [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. • For Topical Use Only. ( 2 ) • Apply a small amount of mupirocin ointment, with a cotton swab or gauze pad, to the affected area 3 times daily for up to 10 days. ( 2 ) • Re-evaluate patients not showing a clinical response within 3 to 5 days. ( 2 ) • Not for intranasal, ophthalmic, or other mucosal use. • Apply a small amount of Mupirocin Ointment USP, 2%, with a cotton swab or gauze pad, to the affected area 3 times daily for up to 10 days. • Mupirocin Ointment USP, 2% is not for intranasal, ophthalmic, or other mucosal use [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.6) ]. • Do not apply Mupirocin Ointment USP, 2% concurrently with any other lotions, creams, or ointments [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. (2) • Apply a small amount of Mupirocin Ointment USP, 2%, with a cotton swab or gauze pad, to the affected area 3 times daily for up to 10 days. (2) • Re-evaluate patients not showing a clinical response within 3 to 5 days. (2) • Not for intranasal, ophthalmic, or other mucosal use. (2) Apply a small amount of Mupirocin Ointment USP, 2%, with a cotton swab or gauze pad, to the affected area 3 times daily for up to 10 days. Mupirocin Ointment USP, 2% is not for intranasal, ophthalmic, or other mucosal use [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.6) ]. Do not apply Mupirocin Ointment USP, 2% concurrently with any other lotions, creams, or ointments [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. (2) Apply a small amount of Mupirocin Ointment USP, 2%, with a cotton swab or gauze pad, to the affected area 3 times daily for up to 10 days. (2) Re-evaluate patients not showing a clinical response within 3 to 5 days. (2) Not for intranasal, ophthalmic, or other mucosal use. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A small amount of mupirocin ointment should be applied to the affected area 3 times daily. The area treated may be covered with a gauze dressing if desired. Patients not showing a clinical response within 3 to 5 days should be re-evaluated. ( 2 ) Apply a small amount of Mupirocin Ointment USP, 2%, with a cotton swab or gauze pad, to the affected area 3 times daily for up to 10 days. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A small amount of Mupirocin Ointment USP, 2% should be applied to the affected area 3 times daily. Directions use with care in premature infants and infants under 2 months of age. These products may cause irritation or chemical burns. Surgical hand scrub: wet hands and forearms with water scrub for 3 minutes with about 5 ml of product and a wet brush paying close attention to the nails, cuticles and interdigital spaces a separate nail cleaner may be used rinse thoroughly wash for an additional 3 minutes with 5 ml of product and rinse under running water dry thoroughly Healthcare personnel handwash: wet hands with water dispense about 5 ml of product into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for 15 seconds rinse and dry thoroughly Patient preoperative skin preparation: apply product liberally to surgical site and swab for at least 2 minutes and dry with a sterile towel repeat procedure for an additional 2 minutes and dry with a sterile towel Skin wound and general skin cleaning: thoroughly rinse the area to be cleaned with water apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently rinse again thoroughly Directions apply cream liberally as needed • Mupirocin ointment is not for intranasal, ophthalmic, or other mucosal use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.6 ) ]. • Do not apply mupirocin ointment concurrently with any other lotions, creams, or ointments [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Apply a small amount of mupirocin ointment, with a cotton swab or gauze pad, to the affected area 3 times daily for up to 10 days. Mupirocin ointment is not for intranasal, ophthalmic, or other mucosal use [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.6 )] . Do not apply mupirocin ointment concurrently with any other lotions, creams, or ointments [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. ( 2 ) Apply a small amount of mupirocin ointment, with a cotton swab or gauze pad, to the affected area 3 times daily for up to 10 days. Mupirocin cream is not for intranasal, ophthalmic, or other mucosal use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.6) ] . Do not apply mupirocin cream concurrently with any other lotions, creams, or ointments [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . (2) Apply a small amount of mupirocin cream, with a cotton swab or gauze pad, to the affected area 3 times daily for 10 days.
Warnings: WARNINGS Mupirocin ointment is not for ophthalmic use. WARNINGS Mupirocin Ointment USP, 2% is not for ophthalmic use. Warnings For external use only. Do not use if you are allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredients in contact with meninges in the genital area as a preoperative skin preparation of the head or face When using this product keep out of eyes, ears, and mouth. May cause serious and permanent eye injury if placed or kept in the eye during surgical procedures or may cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated eardrums. if solution should contact these areas, rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin should not be routinely treated repeated general skin cleansing of large body areas should not be done except when the underlying condition makes it necessary to reduce the bacterial population of skin Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation, sensitization or allergic reaction occurs. These may be signs of a serious condition. Keep out of reach of children if swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Do not use on deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns When using this product do not get into eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mupirocin cream is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to mupirocin or any of the excipients of mupirocin cream. Known hypersensitivity to mupirocin or any of the excipients of mupirocin cream. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mupirocin ointment is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to mupirocin or any of the excipients of mupirocin ointment. • Known hypersensitivity to mupirocin or any of the excipients of mupirocin ointment. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mupirocin Ointment USP, 2% is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to mupirocin or any of the excipients of Mupirocin Ointment USP, 2%. • Known hypersensitivity to mupirocin or any of the excipients of Mupirocin Ointment USP, 2%. (4) Known hypersensitivity to mupirocin or any of the excipients of Mupirocin Ointment USP, 2%. CONTRAINDICATIONS This drug is contraindicated in individuals with a history of sensitivity reactions to any of its components. Known hypersensitivity to mupirocin or any of the excipients of mupirocin ointment.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions The effect of the concurrent application of mupirocin ointment and other drug products has not been studied.

=== NEBIVOLOL ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nebivolol is a beta-adrenergic blocking agent indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions.( 1.1 ) 1.1 Hypertension Nebivolol tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. Nebivolol may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes, including the class to which this drug principally belongs. There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with nebivolol. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program's Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Hypertension Nebivolol tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Nebivolol tablets may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents [see Drug Interactions (7) ] . There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with nebivolol tablets. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). 1. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nebivolol is a beta-adrenergic blocking agent indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Hypertension Nebivolol tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. Nebivolol tablets may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nebivolol tablets are a beta-adrenergic blocking agent indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Hypertension Nebivolol tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] . Nebivolol tablets may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents [see Drug Interactions (7)] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nebivolol tablet is a beta-adrenergic blocking agent indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Hypertension Nebivolol tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Nebivolol tablets may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents [see Drug Interactions ( 7 )] . 1.1 Hypertension Nebivolol tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Nebivolol tablets may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents [see Drug Interactions (7)]. ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Hypertension Nebivolol tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Nebivolol tablets may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents [see Drug Interactions (7) ].
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Can be taken with and without food. Individualize to the needs of the patient and monitor during up-titration. ( 2 ) Hypertension: Most patients start at 5 mg once daily. Dose can be increased at 2-week intervals up to 40 mg. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Hypertension The dose of nebivolol tablets must be individualized to the needs of the patient. For most patients, the recommended starting dose is 5 mg once daily, with or without food, as monotherapy or in combination with other agents. For patients requiring further reduction in blood pressure, the dose can be increased at 2-week intervals up to 40 mg. A more frequent dosing regimen is unlikely to be beneficial. Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment (ClCr less than 30 mL/min) the recommended initial dose is 2.5 mg once daily; titrate up slowly if needed. Nebivolol tablets have not been studied in patients receiving dialysis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.4 ) ]. Hepatic Impairment In patients with moderate hepatic impairment, the recommended initial dose is 2.5 mg once daily; titrate up slowly if needed. Nebivolol tablets have not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment and Therefore it is not recommended in that population [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.4 ) ]. 2.2 Subpopulations Geriatric Patients It is not necessary to adjust the dose in the elderly [ see use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 ) ]. CYP2D6 Polymorphism No dose adjustments are necessary for patients who are CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. The clinical effect and safety profile observed in poor metabolizers were similar to those of extensive metabolizers [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Nebivolol tablets have not been studied in patients receiving dialysis [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) ]. Nebivolol tablets have not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment and therefore it is not recommended in that population [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) ]. 2.2 Subpopulations Geriatric Patients It is not necessary to adjust the dose in the elderly [see use in Specific Populations (8.5) ]. The clinical effect and safety profile observed in poor metabolizers were similar to those of extensive metabolizers [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Can be taken with and without food. ( 2 ) • Hypertension: Most patients start at 5 mg once daily. Nebivolol tablets have not been studied in patients receiving dialysis [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.4 )]. Nebivolol tablets have not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment and therefore it is not recommended in that population [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.4 )]. 2.2 Subpopulations Geriatric Patients It is not necessary to adjust the dose in the elderly [see use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 )]. The clinical effect and safety profile observed in poor metabolizers were similar to those of extensive metabolizers [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Nebivolol tablets has not been studied in patients receiving dialysis [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4)]. Nebivolol has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment and therefore it is not recommended in that population [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) ]. Nebivolol tablets have not been studied in patients receiving dialysis [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.4 )] . Nebivolol tablets have not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment and therefore it is not recommended in that population [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.4 )] . 2.2 Subpopulations Geriatric Patients It is not necessary to adjust the dose in the elderly [see use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 )] . The clinical effect and safety profile observed in poor metabolizers were similar to those of extensive metabolizers [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.1 Hypertension The dose of nebivolol tablets must be individualized to the needs of the patient. Nebivolol tablets have not been studied in patients receiving dialysis [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4)]. Nebivolol tablets have not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment and therefore it is not recommended in that population [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4)]. 2.2 Subpopulations Geriatric Patients It is not necessary to adjust the dose in the elderly [see use in Specific Populations (8.5)]. The clinical effect and safety profile observed in poor metabolizers were similar to those of extensive metabolizers [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Nebivolol tablets has not been studied in patients receiving dialysis [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) ]. Nebivolol tablets has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment and therefore it is not recommended in that population [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4) ].
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Nebivolol Tablets is contraindicated in the following conditions: Severe bradycardia Heart block greater than first degree Patients with cardiogenic shock Decompensated cardiac failure Sick sinus syndrome (unless a permanent pacemaker is in place) Patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh >B) Patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. Severe bradycardia ( 4 ) Heart block greater than first degree ( 4 ) Patients with cardiogenic shock ( 4 ) Decompensated cardiac failure ( 4 ) Sick sinus syndrome (unless a permanent pacemaker is in place) ( 4 ) Patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh >B) ( 4 ) Hypersensitive to any component of this product ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Nebivolol tablets are contraindicated in the following conditions: Severe bradycardia Heart block greater than first degree Patients with cardiogenic shock Decompensated cardiac failure Sick sinus syndrome (unless a permanent pacemaker is in place) Patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh >B) Patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. 4. CONTRAINDICATIONS Nebivolol tablets are contraindicated in the following conditions: • Severe bradycardia • Heart block greater than first degree • Patients with cardiogenic shock • Decompensated cardiac failure • Sick sinus syndrome (unless a permanent pacemaker is in place) • Patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh >B) • Patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. • Severe bradycardia ( 4 ) • Heart block greater than first degree ( 4 ) • Patients with cardiogenic shock ( 4 ) • Decompensated cardiac failure ( 4 ) • Sick sinus syndrome (unless a permanent pacemaker is in place) ( 4 ) • Patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh >B) ( 4 ) • Hypersensitive to any component of this product ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Nebivolol is contraindicated in the following conditions: • Severe bradycardia • Heart block greater than first degree • Patients with cardiogenic shock • Decompensated cardiac failure • Sick sinus syndrome (unless a permanent pacemaker is in place) • Patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh >B) • Patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. • Severe bradycardia (4) • Heart block greater than first degree (4) • Patients with cardiogenic shock (4) • Decompensated cardiac failure (4) • Sick sinus syndrome (unless a permanent pacemaker is in place) (4) • Patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh >B) (4) • Hypersensitive to any component of this product (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Nebivolol tablets are contraindicated in the following conditions: • Severe bradycardia • Heart block greater than first degree • Patients with cardiogenic shock • Decompensated cardiac failure • Sick sinus syndrome (unless a permanent pacemaker is in place) • Patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh >B) • Patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. Nebivolol tablets are contraindicated in the following conditions: • Severe bradycardia • Heart block greater than first degree • Patients with cardiogenic shock • Decompensated cardiac failure • Sick sinus syndrome (unless a permanent pacemaker is in place) • Patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh >B) • Patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP2D6 enzyme inhibitors may increase nebivolol levels ( 7.1 ) Reserpine or clonidine may produce excessive reduction of sympathetic activity. ( 7.2 ) Both digitalis glycosides and β-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia. ( 7.3 ) Verapamil- or diltiazem-type calcium channel blockers may cause excessive reductions in heart rate, blood pressure, and cardiac contractility. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 CYP2D6 Inhibitors Use caution when nebivolol is co-administered with CYP2D6 inhibitors (quinidine, propafenone, fluoxetine, paroxetine, etc.) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 ) ]. 7.2 Hypotensive Agents Do not use nebivolol tablets with other β-blockers. Closely monitor patients receiving catecholamine-depleting drugs, such as reserpine or guanethidine, because the added β-blocking action of nebivolol may produce excessive reduction of sympathetic activity. In patients who are receiving nebivolol and clonidine, discontinue nebivolol tablets for several days before the gradual tapering of clonidine. 7.3 Digitalis Glycosides Both digitalis glycosides and β-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. 7.4 Calcium Channel Blockers Nebivolol can exacerbate the effects of myocardial depressants or inhibitors of AV conduction, such as certain calcium antagonists (particularly of the phenylalkylamine [verapamil] and benzothiazepine [diltiazem] classes), or antiarrhythmic agents, such as disopyramide. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP2D6 enzyme inhibitors may increase nebivolol levels. ( 7.1 ) Reserpine or clonidine may produce excessive reduction of sympathetic activity. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 CYP2D6 Inhibitors Use caution when nebivolol is co-administered with CYP2D6 inhibitors (quinidine, propafenone, fluoxetine, paroxetine, etc.) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] . 7.2 Hypotensive Agents Do not use nebivolol with other β-blockers. In patients who are receiving nebivolol and clonidine, discontinue nebivolol for several days before the gradual tapering of clonidine. 7. DRUG INTERACTIONS • CYP2D6 enzyme inhibitors may increase nebivolol levels. ( 7.1 ) • Reserpine or clonidine may produce excessive reduction of sympathetic activity. ( 7.2 ) • Both digitalis glycosides and β-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. ( 7.3 ) • Verapamil- or diltiazem-type calcium channel blockers may cause excessive reductions in heart rate, blood pressure, and cardiac contractility. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 CYP2D6 Inhibitors Use caution when nebivolol tablets are co-administered with CYP2D6 inhibitors (quinidine, propafenone, fluoxetine, paroxetine, etc.) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] . Closely monitor patients receiving catecholamine-depleting drugs, such as reserpine or guanethidine, because the added β-blocking action of nebivolol tablets may produce excessive reduction of sympathetic activity. In patients who are receiving nebivolol tablets and clonidine, discontinue nebivolol tablets for several days before the gradual tapering of clonidine. 7.4 Calcium Channel Blockers Nebivolol tablets can exacerbate the effects of myocardial depressants or inhibitors of AV conduction, such as certain calcium antagonists (particularly of the phenylalkylamine [verapamil] and benzothiazepine [diltiazem] classes), or antiarrhythmic agents, such as disopyramide. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • CYP2D6 enzyme inhibitors may increase nebivolol levels. (7.1) • Reserpine or clonidine may produce excessive reduction of sympathetic activity. (7.2) • Both digitalis glycosides and β-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. (7.3) • Verapamil- or diltiazem-type calcium channel blockers may cause excessive reductions in heart rate, blood pressure, and cardiac contractility. (7.4) 7.1 CYP2D6 Inhibitors Use caution when nebivolol is co-administered with CYP2D6 inhibitors (quinidine, propafenone, fluoxetine, paroxetine, etc.) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ]. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 CYP2D6 Inhibitors Use caution when nebivolol is co-administered with CYP2D6 inhibitors (quinidine, propafenone, fluoxetine, paroxetine, etc.) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.5 )] . 7.1 CYP2D6 Inhibitors Use caution when nebivolol tablets are co-administered with CYP2D6 inhibitors (quinidine, propafenone, fluoxetine, paroxetine, etc.) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5)]. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 CYP2D6 Inhibitors Use caution when nebivolol tablets are co-administered with CYP2D6 inhibitors (quinidine, propafenone, fluoxetine, paroxetine, etc.) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.5) ] .

=== PERPHENAZINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Perphenazine tablets, USP are indicated for use in the treatment of schizophrenia and for the control of severe nausea and vomiting in adults. Perphenazine tablets, USP have not been shown effective for the management of behavioral complications in patients with mental retardation. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Perphenazine is indicated for use in the treatment of schizophrenia and for the control of severe nausea and vomiting in adults. Perphenazine has not been shown effective for the management of behavioral complications in patients with mental retardation. INDICATIONS & USAGE Perphenazine is indicated for use in the treatment of schizophrenia and for the control of severe nausea and vomiting in adults.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage must be individualized and adjusted according to the severity of the condition and the response obtained. As with all potent drugs, the best dose is the lowest dose that will produce the desired clinical effect. Since extrapyramidal symptoms increase in frequency and severity with increased dosage, it is important to employ the lowest effective dose. These symptoms have disappeared upon reduction of dosage, withdrawal of the drug, or administration of an antiparkinsonian agent. Prolonged administration of doses exceeding 24 mg daily should be reserved for hospitalized patients or patients under continued observation for early detection and management of adverse reactions. An antiparkinsonian agent, such as trihexyphenidyl hydrochloride or benztropine mesylate, is valuable in controlling drug-induced extrapyramidal symptoms. Suggested dosages for various conditions follow: Moderately disturbed nonhospitalized patients with schizophrenia 4 mg to 8 mg three times daily initially; reduce as soon as possible to minimum effective dosage. Hospitalized patients with schizophrenia 8 mg to 16 mg two times daily to four times daily; avoid dosages in excess of 64 mg daily. Severe nausea and vomiting in adults 8 mg to 16 mg daily in divided doses; 24 mg occasionally may be necessary; early dosage reduction is desirable. Elderly Patients With increasing age, plasma concentrations of perphenazine per daily ingested dose increase. Geriatric dosages of perphenazine preparations have not been established, but initiation of lower dosages is recommended. Optimal clinical effect or benefit may require lower doses for a longer duration. Dosing of perphenazine may occur before bedtime, if required. Manifestations The toxic effects of perphenazine are typically mild to moderate with death occurring in cases involving a large overdose. Overdosage of perphenazine primarily involves the extrapyramidal mechanism and produces the same side effects described under ADVERSE REACTIONS , but to a more marked degree. It is usually evidenced by stupor or coma; children may have convulsive seizures. Signs of arousal may not occur for 48 hours. The primary effects of medical concern are cardiac in origin including tachycardia, prolongation of the QRS or QTc intervals, atrioventricular block, torsade de pointes, ventricular dysrhythmia, hypotension or cardiac arrest, which indicate serious poisoning. Deaths by deliberate or accidental overdosage have occurred with this class of drugs. Treatment Treatment is symptomatic and supportive. Induction of emesis is not recommended because of the possibility of a seizure, CNS depression, or dystonic reaction of the head or neck and subsequent aspiration. Gastric lavage (after intubation, if the patient is unconscious) and administration of activated charcoal together with a laxative should be considered. There is no specific antidote. Standard measures (oxygen, intravenous fluids, corticosteroids) should be used to manage circulatory shock or metabolic acidosis. An open airway and adequate fluid intake should be maintained. Body temperature should be regulated. Hypothermia is expected, but severe hyperthermia may occur and must be treated vigorously. ( See CONTRAINDICATIONS. ) An electrocardiogram should be taken and close monitoring of cardiac function instituted if there is any sign of abnormality. Close monitoring of cardiac function is advisable for not less than five days. Vasopressors such as norepinephrine may be used to treat hypotension, but epinephrine should NOT be used. Hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis is of no value because of low plasma concentrations of the drug. Since overdosage is often deliberate, patients may attempt suicide by other means during the recovery phase. Suggested dosages for various conditions follow: Moderately disturbed nonhospitalized patients with schizophrenia 4 to 8 mg t.i.d. initially; reduce as soon as possible to minimum effective dosage. Hospitalized patients with schizophrenia 8 to 16 mg b.i.d. to q.i.d.; avoid dosages in excess of 64 mg daily. Severe nausea and vomiting in adults 8 to 16 mg daily in divided doses; 24 mg occasionally may be necessary, early dosage reduction is desirable. Severe nausea and vomiting in adults 8 to 16 mg daily in divided doses; 24 mg occasionally may be necessary; early dosage reduction is desirable. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Dosage must be individualized and adjusted according to the severity of the condition and the response obtained.
Warnings: WARNINGS Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. Perphenazine tablets, USP are not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis ( see BOXED WARNING ). Tardive dyskinesia, a syndrome consisting of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements, may develop in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs. Older patients are at increased risk for development of tardive dyskinesia. Although the prevalence of the syndrome appears to be highest among the elderly, especially elderly women, it is impossible to rely upon prevalence estimates to predict, at the inception of antipsychotic treatment, which patients are likely to develop the syndrome. Whether antipsychotic drug products differ in their potential to cause tardive dyskinesia is unknown. Both the risk of developing the syndrome and the likelihood that it will become irreversible are believed to increase as the duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose of antipsychotic drugs administered to the patient increase. However, the syndrome can develop, although much less commonly, after relatively brief treatment periods at low doses. There is no known treatment for established cases of tardive dyskinesia, although the syndrome may remit, partially or completely, if antipsychotic treatment is withdrawn. Antipsychotic treatment itself, however, may suppress (or partially suppress) the signs and symptoms of the syndrome, and thereby may possibly mask the underlying disease process. The effect that symptomatic suppression has upon the long-term course of the syndrome is unknown. Given these considerations, especially in the elderly, antipsychotics should be prescribed in a manner that is most likely to minimize the occurrence of tardive dyskinesia. Chronic antipsychotic treatment should generally be reserved for patients who suffer from a chronic illness that 1) is known to respond to antipsychotic drugs, and 2) for whom alternative, equally effective, but potentially less harmful treatments are not available or appropriate. In patients who do require chronic treatment, the smallest dose and the shortest duration of treatment producing a satisfactory clinical response should be sought. The need for continued treatment should be reassessed periodically. If signs and symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear in a patient on antipsychotics, drug discontinuation should be considered. However, some patients may require treatment despite the presence of the syndrome. (For further information about the description of tardive dyskinesia and its clinical detection, please refer to Information for Patients and ADVERSE REACTIONS .) Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) A potentially fatal symptom complex, sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS), has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs. Clinical manifestations of NMS are hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status and evidence of autonomic instability (irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, and cardiac dysrhythmias). The diagnostic evaluation of patients with this syndrome is complicated. In arriving at a diagnosis, it is important to identify cases where the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness (e.g., pneumonia, systemic infection, etc.) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms (EPS). Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity, heat stroke, drug fever and primary central nervous system (CNS) pathology. The management of NMS should include 1) immediate discontinuation of antipsychotic drugs and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy, 2) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring, and 3) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. There is no general agreement about specific pharmacological treatment regimens for uncomplicated NMS. If a patient requires antipsychotic drug treatment after recovery from NMS, the reintroduction of drug therapy should be carefully considered. The patient should be carefully monitored, since recurrences of NMS have been reported. If hypotension develops, epinephrine should not be administered since its action is blocked and partially reversed by perphenazine. If a vasopressor is needed, norepinephrine may be used. Severe, acute hypotension has occurred with the use of phenothiazines and is particularly likely to occur in patients with mitral insufficiency or pheochromocytoma. Rebound hypertension may occur in pheochromocytoma patients. Perphenazine products can lower the convulsive threshold in susceptible individuals; they should be used with caution in alcohol withdrawal and in patients with convulsive disorders. If the patient is being treated with an anticonvulsant agent, increased dosage of that agent may be required when perphenazine products are used concomitantly. Perphenazine products should be used with caution in patients with psychic depression. Perphenazine may impair the mental and/or physical abilities required for the performance of hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery; therefore, the patient should be warned accordingly. Perphenazine products are not recommended for pediatric patients under 12 years of age. Falls Perphenazine tablets may cause somnolence, postural hypotension, motor and sensory instability, which may lead to falls and, consequently, fractures or other injuries. For patients with diseases, conditions, or medications that could exacerbate these effects, complete fall risk assessments when initiating antipsychotic treatment and recurrently for patients on long-term antipsychotic therapy. Usage in Pregnancy Safe use of perphenazine during pregnancy and lactation has not been established; therefore, in administering the drug to pregnant patients, nursing mothers, or women who may become pregnant, the possible benefits must be weighed against the possible hazards to mother and child. Perphenazine is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis (see BOXED WARNING ). (For further information about the description of tardive dyskinesia and its clinical detection, please refer to Information for Patients and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) A potentially fatal symptom complex, sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS), has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs. Perphenazine is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis (see BOXED WARNING). There is no known treatment for established cases of tardive dyskinesia, although the syndrome may remit, partially or completely, if antipsychotic treatment is with-drawn. Usage in Pregnancy Non-teratogenic Effects Neonates exposed to antipsychotic drugs, during the third trimester of pregnancy are at risk for extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms following delivery. There have been reports of agitation, hypertonia, hypotonia, tremor, somnolence, respiratory distress and feeding disorder in these neonates. These complications have varied in severity; while in some cases symptoms have been self-limited, in other cases neonates have required intensive care unit support and prolonged hospitalization. Perphenazine should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Safe use of perphenazine during pregnancy and lactation has not been established; therefore, in administering the drug to pregnant patients, nursing mothers, or women who may become pregnant, the possible benefits must be weighed against the possible hazards to mother and child. Falls Perphenazine may cause somnolence, postural hypotension, motor and sensory instability, which may lead to falls and, consequently, fractures or other injuries.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Perphenazine products are contraindicated in comatose or greatly obtunded patients and in patients receiving large doses of central nervous system depressants (barbiturates, alcohol, narcotics, analgesics, or antihistamines); in the presence of existing blood dyscrasias, bone marrow depression, or liver damage; and in patients who have shown hypersensitivity to perphenazine products, their components, or related compounds. Perphenazine products are also contraindicated in patients with suspected or established subcortical brain damage, with or without hypothalamic damage, since a hyperthermic reaction with temperatures in excess of 104°F may occur in such patients, sometimes not until 14 to 16 hours after drug administration. Total body ice-packing is recommended for such a reaction; antipyretics may also be useful.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Metabolism of a number of medications, including antipsychotics, antidepressants, ß- blockers, and antiarrhythmics, occurs through the cytochrome P450 2D6 isoenzyme (debrisoquine hydroxylase). Approximately 10% of the Caucasian population has reduced activity of this enzyme, so-called "poor" metabolizers. Among other populations the prevalence is not known. Poor metabolizers demonstrate higher plasma concentrations of antipsychotic drugs at usual doses, which may correlate with emergence of side effects. In one study of 45 elderly patients suffering from dementia treated with perphenazine, the 5 patients who were prospectively identified as poor P450 2D6 metabolizers had reported significantly greater side effects during the first 10 days of treatment than the 40 extensive metabolizers, following which the groups tended to converge. Prospective phenotyping of elderly patients prior to antipsychotic treatment may identify those at risk for adverse events. The concomitant administration of other drugs that inhibit the activity of P450 2D6 may acutely increase plasma concentrations of antipsychotics. Among these are tricyclic antidepressants and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, e.g., fluoxetine, sertraline and paroxetine. When prescribing these drugs to patients already receiving antipsychotic therapy, close monitoring is essential and dose reduction may become necessary to avoid toxicity. Lower doses than usually prescribed for either the antipsychotic or the other drug may be required. Drug Interactions Metabolism of a number of medications, including antipsychotics, antidepressants, β-blockers, and antiarrhythmics, occurs through the cytochrome P450 2D6 isoenzyme (debrisoquine hydroxylase). Approximately 10% of the Caucasian population has reduced activity of this enzyme, so-called “poor” metabolizers. Drug Interactions Metabolism of a number of medications, including antipsychotics, antidepressants, ß-blockers, and antiarrhythmics, occurs through the cytochrome P450 2D6 isoenzyme (debrisoquine hydroxylase). Information for Patients This information is intended to aid in the safe and effective use of this medication. It is not a disclosure of all possible adverse or intended effects. Given the likelihood that a substantial proportion of patients exposed chronically to antipsychotics will develop tardive dyskinesia, it is advised that all patients in whom chronic use is contemplated be given, if possible, full information about this risk. The decision to inform patients and/or their guardians must obviously take into account the clinical circumstances and the competency of the patient to understand the information provided.

=== POTASSIUM NITRATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antisensitivity Anticavity Anti-cavity Purposes Anti-hypersensitivity Anticavity Purposes Antihypersensitivity Anticavity Antihypersensitivity Anticavity Uses aids in the prevention of dental cavities
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE: A dental caries preventive and sensitive toothpaste; for twice daily self-applied topical use,following by rinsing, helps reduce the painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold, heat, acid, sweets or contact in adults patients and children 12 years of age and older. It is well established that 1.1% sodium fluoride is safe and extraordinarily effective as a caries preventive when applied frequently with mouthpiece applicators. 1-4 Sodium Fluoride 5000 ppm Sensitive 1.1% sodium fluoride toothpaste with 5% potassium nitrate in a squeeze-tube is easily applied onto a toothbrush. This prescription toothpaste should be used twice daily in place of your regular toothpaste, unless otherwise instructed by your dental professional. May be used whether or not drinking water is fluoridated, since topical fluoride cannot produce fluorosis. (See WARNINGS for exception.) Use: Aids in the prevention of cavities. Helps reduce painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold, heat, acids, sweets, or contact. Use Helps protect against cavities Uses builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold, heat, acids, sweets, or contact. aids in the prevention of dental cavities. builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold, heat, acids, sweets or contact * acids in the prevention of dental cavities builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold, heat, acids, sweets or contact * aids in the prevention of dental cavities Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and older: Apply at least a 1-inch strip of product onto a soft bristle toothbrush. Brush teeth thoroughly for at least one minute, preferably after each meal or at least twice a day (morning and evening) or as recommended by a dentist or physican. Make sure to brush all sensitive areas of the teeth.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Follow these instructions unless otherwise instructed by your dental professional: Adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age or older, apply at least a 1 inch strip of Sodium Fluoride 5000 ppm Sensitive onto a soft bristle toothbrush. Brush teeth thoroughly for at least 1 minute, expectorate, and rinse mouth thoroughly. Use twice daily, (morning and evening) or as recommended by dentist or physician. Make sure to brush all sensitive areas of the teeth. Children under 12 years of age:consultant a dentist or physician. Directions: Adults and children 12 years of age and older: Apply at least a 1-inch strip of the product onto a soft bristle toothbrush. Brush teeth thoroughly, for at least 1 minute twice a day, (morning and evening) or as recommended by a dentist or doctor. Children under 12 years of age: Consult a dentist or doctor. Direction Brush thoroughly, preferably after each meal or at least twice a day. Do not swallow. Rinse and spit out after use. Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and older: apply at least a 1-inch strip of the product onto a soft bristle toothbrush. brush teeth thoroughly for at least 1 minute twice a day (morning and evening), and not more than 3 times a day, or as recommended by a dentist or doctor. Minimize swallowing. Spit out after brushing. adults and children 12 years pf age and older: apply at least a 1-inch strip of the product onto a soft bristle toothbrush * brush teeth thoroughly for at least one minute twice a day (morning and evening), and not more than 3 times a day, or as recommended by a dentist or doctor. * children under 12 years of age: Consult a dentist or doctor. adults and children 12 years of age and older: apply at least a 1-inch strip of the product onto a soft bristle toothbrush * brush teeth thoroughly for at least one minute twice a day (morning and evening), and not more than 3 times a day, or as recommended by a dentist or doctor. Spit out after brushing.*children under 12 years of age: Consult a dentist or doctor. Apply at least a 1-inch strip of the product onto a soft bristle toothbrush. Children under 12 years of age: consult a dentist or a doctor.
Warnings: WARNINGS: Not for systemic treatment- Do not Swallow. Keep out of the reach of children. Children under 12 years of age, consult a dentist or physician. Note: Sensitive teeth may indicate a serious problem that may need prompt care by a dentist. See your dentist if the problem persists or worsens. Do not use this product longer than 4 weeks unless recommended by a dentist or physician. Warnings: Sensitive teeth may indicate a serious problem that may need prompt care by a dentist. Do not use this product longer than 4 weeks unless recommended by a dentist or doctor. Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age. If more than used for brushing is accidentlly swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS SECTION Children of six years and younger: Use a pea-sized amount for supervised brushing to minimize swallowing. In case of intake of fluoride from other sources, consult a dentist or doctor. Warnings Stop use and contact a dentist if the problem persists or worsens. Sensitive teeth may indicate a serious problem that may need prompt care by a dentist. pain/sensitivity still persists after 4 weeks of use. Keep out of reach of children. If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Stop use and ask a dentist if the problem persists or worsens. When using this product, if irritation occurs discontinue. Stop use and ask a dentist if * the problem persists or worsen. * pain/sensitivity still persists after 4 weeks of use. When using this product, of iffitation occurs discontine use. Stop use and ask a dentist if the problem persists or worsen. Sensitive teeth may indicate a serious problem that many need prompt care by a dentist.* pain/sensitivty still persists after 4 weeks of use. When using this product do not use for longer than 4 weeks unless recommended by a dentist or physician. Keep out of reach of children .
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS: Do not use in pediatric patients under age 12 years unless recommended by a dentist or physician.

=== PRAMIPEXOLE DIHYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablet is a non-ergot dopamine agonist indicated for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease (PD) (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets are non-ergot dopamine agonist indicated for the treatment of: · Parkinson’s disease (PD) (1.1) 1.1 Parkinson's Disease Pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease. Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets are a non-ergot dopamine agonist indicated for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease (PD) ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended- release tablet is a non-ergot dopamine agonist indicated for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) ( 1 ) Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended- release tablets are indicated for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets are a non-ergot dopamine agonist indicated for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pramipexole dihydrochloride is a non-ergot dopamine agonist indicated for the treatment of: Parkinson’s disease (PD) ( 1.1 ) Moderate-to-severe primary Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS) (1.2) 1.1 Parkinson's Disease Pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. 1.2 Restless Legs Syndrome Pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of moderate-to-severe primary Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pramipexole dihydrochloride is a non-ergot dopamine agonist indicated for the treatment of: Parkinson's disease (PD) (1.1) Moderate-to-severe primary Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS) (1.2) 1.1 Parkinson’s Disease Pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE PRAMIPEXOLE DIHYDROCHLORIDE tablets are a non-ergot dopamine agonist indicated for the treatment of: Parkinson’s disease (PD) ( 1.1 ) Moderate-to-severe primary Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS) ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Parkinson’s Disease Pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pramipexole dihydrochloride is a non-ergot dopamine agonist indicated for the treatment of: Parkinson’s disease (PD) (1.1) Moderate-to-severe primary Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS) ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Parkinson's Disease Pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets are taken once daily, with or without food (2.1) Tablets must be swallowed whole and must not be chewed, crushed, or divided (2.1) Starting dose is 0.375 mg given once daily (2.2) Dose may be increased gradually, not more frequently than every 5 to 7 days, first to 0.75 mg per day and then by 0.75 mg increments up to a maximum recommended dose of 4.5 mg per day. Assess therapeutic response and tolerability at a minimal interval of 5 days or longer after each dose increment. (2.2) Patients may be switched overnight from immediate-release pramipexole tablets to extended-release pramipexole tablets at the same daily dose. Dose adjustment may be needed in some patients (2.3) Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets should be discontinued gradually. (2.2) 2.1 General Dosing Considerations Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets are taken orally once daily, with or without food. Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets must be swallowed whole and must not be chewed, crushed, or divided. If a significant interruption in therapy with pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets has occurred, re-titration of therapy may be warranted. 2.2 Recommended Dosage The starting dose is 0.375 mg given once per day. Based on efficacy and tolerability, dosages may be increased gradually, not more frequently than every 5 to 7 days, first to 0.75 mg per day and then by 0.75 mg increments up to a maximum recommended dose of 4.5 mg per day. In clinical trials, dosage was initiated at 0.375 mg/day and gradually titrated based on individual therapeutic response and tolerability. Doses greater than 4.5 mg/day have not been studied in clinical trials. Patients should be assessed for therapeutic response and tolerability at a minimal interval of 5 days or longer after each dose increment [see Clinical Studies ( 14) ]. Due to the flexible dose design used in clinical trials, specific dose-response information could not be determined [see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets may be tapered off at a rate of 0.75 mg per day until the daily dose has been reduced to 0.75 mg. Thereafter, the dose may be reduced by 0.375 mg per day [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 , 5.11 )]. Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment: In patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance between 30 and 50 mL/min), pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets should initially be taken every other day. Caution should be exercised and careful assessment of therapeutic response and tolerability should be made before increasing to daily dosing after one week, and before any additional titration in 0.375 mg increments up to 2.25 mg per day. Dose adjustment should occur no more frequently than at weekly intervals. Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets have not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/min) or patients on hemodialysis, and are not recommended in these patients. 2.3 Switching from Immediate-Release Pramipexole Tablets to Extended-Release Pramipexole Tablets Patients with Parkinson’s disease may be switched overnight from immediate-release pramipexole tablets to extended-release pramipexole tablets at the same daily dose. When switching between immediate-release pramipexole tablets and extended-release pramipexole tablets, patients should be monitored to determine if dosage adjustment is necessary. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Parkinson’s Disease-Normal Renal Function* (2.2) Week Dosage (mg) Total Daily Dose (mg) 1 0.125 TID 0.375 2 0.25 TID 0.75 3 0.5 TID 1.5 4 0.75 TID 2.25 5 1 TID 3 6 1.25 TID 3.75 7 1.5 TID 4.5 * Doses should not be increased more frequently than every 5 to 7 days. Titrate to effective dose. If used with levodopa, may need to reduce levodopa dose. Parkinson’s Disease-Impaired Renal Function (2.2) Creatinine Clearance Starting Dose (mg) Maximum Dose (mg) > 50 ml/min 0.125 TID 1.5 TID 30 to 50 ml/min 0.125 BID 0.75 TID 15 to 30 ml/min 0.125 QD 1.5 QD <15 ml/min and hemodialysis patients Data not available 2.1 General Dosing Considerations Pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets are taken orally, with or without food. If a significant interruption in therapy with pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets has occurred, re-titration of therapy may be warranted. 2.2 Dosing for Parkinson's Disease In all clinical studies, dosage was initiated at a subtherapeutic level to avoid intolerable adverse effects and orthostatic hypotension. Pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets should be titrated gradually in all patients. The dose should be increased to achieve a maximum therapeutic effect, balanced against the principal side effects of dyskinesia, hallucinations, somnolence, and dry mouth. Dosing in Patients with Normal Renal Function Initial Treatment Doses should be increased gradually from a starting dose of 0.375 mg/day given in three divided doses and should not be increased more frequently than every 5 to 7 days. A suggested ascending dosage schedule that was used in clinical studies is shown in Table 1: Table 1 Ascending Dosage Schedule of Pramipexole Dihydrochloride Tablets for Parkinson's Disease Week Dosage (mg) Total Daily Dose (mg) 1 0.125 three times a day 0.375 2 0.25 three times a day 0.75 3 0.5 three times a day 1.5 4 0.75 three times a day 2.25 5 1 three times a day 3 6 1.25 three times a day 3.75 7 1.5 three times a day 4.5 Maintenance Treatment Pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets were effective and well tolerated over a dosage range of 1.5 to 4.5 mg/day administered in equally divided doses three times per day with or without concomitant levodopa (approximately 800 mg/day). In a fixed-dose study in early Parkinson’s disease patients, doses of 3 mg, 4.5 mg, and 6 mg per day of pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets were not shown to provide any significant benefit beyond that achieved at a daily dose of 1.5 mg/day. However, in the same fixed-dose study, the following adverse events were dose related: postural hypotension, nausea, constipation, somnolence, and amnesia. The frequency of these events was generally 2-fold greater than placebo for pramipexole doses greater than 3 mg/day. The incidence of somnolence reported with pramipexole at a dose of 1.5 mg/day was comparable to placebo. When pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets are used in combination with levodopa, a reduction of the levodopa dosage should be considered. In a controlled study in advanced Parkinson’s disease, the dosage of levodopa was reduced by an average of 27% from baseline. Dosing in Patients with Renal Impairment The recommended dosing of pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets in Parkinson’s disease patients with renal impairment is provided in Table 2. Table 2 Dosing of Pramipexole Dihydrochloride Tablets in Parkinson’s Disease Patients with Renal Impairment Renal Status Starting Dose (mg) Maximum Dose (mg) Normal to mild impairment (creatinine Cl >50 mL/min) 0.125 three times a day 1.5 three times a day Moderate impairment (creatinine Cl =30 to 50 mL/min) 0.125 twice a day 0.75 three times a day Severe impairment (creatinine Cl =15 to <30 mL/min) 0.125 once a day 1.5 once a day Very severe impairment (creatinine Cl <15 mL/min and hemodialysis patients) The use of pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets has not been adequately studied in this group of patients. Discontinuation of Treatment Pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets may be tapered off at a rate of 0.75 mg per day until the daily dose has been reduced to 0.75 mg. Thereafter, the dose may be reduced by 0.375 mg per day [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets are taken once daily, with or without food ( 2.1 ) Tablets must be swallowed whole and must not be chewed, crushed, or divided ( 2.1 ) Starting dose is 0.375 mg given once daily ( 2.2 ) Dose may be increased gradually, not more frequently than every 5 to 7 days, first to 0.75 mg per day and then by 0.75 mg increments up to a maximum recommended dose of 4.5 mg per day. Assess therapeutic response andtolerability at a minimal interval of 5 days or longer after each dose increment ( 2.2 ) Patients may be switched overnight from immediate-release pramipexole tablets to pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets at the same daily dose. Dose adjustment may be needed in some patients ( 2.3 ) Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets should be discontinued gradually ( 2.2 ) 2.1 General Dosing Considerations Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets are taken orally once daily, with or without food. 2.2 Dosing for Parkinson’s Disease The starting dose is 0.375 mg given once per day. Patients should be assessed for therapeutic response and tolerability at a minimal interval of 5 days or longer after each dose increment [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. Due to the flexible dose design used in clinical trials, specific dose-response information could not be determined [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. Thereafter, the dose may be reduced by 0.375 mg per day [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 ) ]. Dosing in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance between 30 and 50 mL/min), pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets should initially be taken every other day. 2.3 Switching from Immediate-Release Pramipexole Tablets to Pramipexole Dihydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Patients with Parkinson’s disease may be switched overnight from immediate-release pramipexole tablets to pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets at the same daily dose. When switching between immediate-release pramipexole tablets and pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets, patients should be monitored to determine if dosage adjustment is necessary. 2.1 General Dosing Considerations Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets are taken orally once daily, with or without food. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended- release tablets are taken once daily, with or without food ( 2.1 ) Tablets must be swallowed whole and must not be chewed, crushed, or divided ( 2.1 ) Starting dose is 0.375 mg given once daily ( 2.2 ) Dose may be increased gradually, not more frequently than every 5 to 7 days, first to 0.75 mg per day and then by 0.75 mg increments up to a maximum recommended dose of 4.5 mg per day. Assess therapeutic response and tolerability at a minimal interval of 5 days or longer after each dose increment ( 2.2 ) Patients may be switched overnight from immediate-release pramipexole tablets to pramipexole dihydrochloride extended- release tablets at the same daily dose. Dose adjustment may be needed in some patients ( 2.3 ) Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended- release tablets should be discontinued gradually ( 2.2 ) 2.1 General Dosing Considerations Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended- release tablets are taken orally once daily, with or without food. Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended- release tablets must be swallowed whole and must not be chewed, crushed, or divided. If a significant interruption in therapy with pramipexole dihydrochloride extended- release tablets has occurred, re-titration of therapy may be warranted. Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended- release tablets may be tapered off at a rate of 0.75 mg per day until the daily dose has been reduced to 0.75 mg. Thereafter, the dose may be reduced by 0.375 mg per day [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 , 5.11 ) ]. Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance between 30 and 50 mL/min), pramipexole dihydrochloride extended- release tablets should initially be taken every other day. Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended- release tablets have not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/min) or patients on hemodialysis, and are not recommended in these patients. 2.3 Switching from Immediate-Release Pramipexole Tablets to Pramipexole Dihydrochloride Extended- Release Tablets Patients with Parkinson's disease may be switched overnight from immediate-release pramipexole tablets to pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets at the same daily dose. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets are taken once daily, with or without food ( 2.1 ) • Tablets must be swallowed whole and must not be chewed, crushed, or divided ( 2.1 ) • Starting dose is 0.375 mg given once daily ( 2.2 ) • Dose may be increased gradually, not more frequently than every 5 to 7 days, first to 0.75 mg per day and then by 0.75 mg increments up to a maximum recommended dose of 4.5 mg per day. Assess therapeutic response and tolerability at a minimal interval of 5 days or longer after each dose increment ( 2.2 ) • Patients may be switched overnight from immediate-release pramipexole tablets to pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets at the same daily dose. Dose adjustment may be needed in some patients ( 2.3 ) • Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets should be discontinued gradually ( 2.2 ) 2.1 General Dosing Considerations Pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets are taken orally once daily, with or without food. Patients should be assessed for therapeutic response and tolerability at a minimal interval of 5 days or longer after each dose increment [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. Due to the flexible dose design used in clinical trials, specific dose-response information could not be determined [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. Thereafter, the dose may be reduced by 0.375 mg per day [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 , 5.11 )]. Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance between 30 and 50 mL/min), pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets should initially be taken every other day. 2.3 Switching from Immediate-Release Pramipexole Tablets to Pramipexole Dihydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Patients with Parkinson's disease may be switched overnight from immediate-release pramipexole tablets to pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets at the same daily dose. Parkinson’s Disease-Impaired Renal Function (2.2) Creatinine Clearance Starting Dose (mg) Maximum Dose (mg) <15 mL/min and hemodialysis patients Data not available >50 mL/min 0.125 TID 1.5 TID 30 to 50 mL/min 0.125 BID 0.75 TID 15 to 30 mL/min 0.125 QD 1.5 QD Restless Legs Syndrome* (2.3) Titration Step Dose (mg) 2 to 3 hours before bedtime 1 0.125 2 (if needed) 0.25 3 (if needed) 0.5 * Dosing interval is 4 to 7 days (14 days in patients with CrCl 20 to 60 mL/min) 2.1 General Dosing Considerations Pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets are taken orally, with or without food. In a fixed-dose study in early Parkinson's disease patients, doses of 3 mg, 4.5 mg, and 6 mg per day of pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets were not shown to provide any significant benefit beyond that achieved at a daily dose of 1.5 mg/day. In a controlled study in advanced Parkinson's disease, the dosage of levodopa was reduced by an average of 27% from baseline. Dosing in Patients with Renal Impairment The recommended dosing of pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets in Parkinson's disease patients with renal impairment is provided in Table 2. Table 2 Dosing of Pramipexole Dihydrochloride tablets in Parkinson’s Disease Patients with Renal Impairment Renal Status Starting Dose (mg) Maximum Dose (mg) Normal to mild impairment (creatinine Cl >50 mL/min) 0.125 three times a day 1.5 three times a day Moderate impairment (creatinine Cl = 30 to 50 mL/min) 0.125 twice a day 0.75 three times a day Severe impairment (creatinine Cl = 15 to <30 mL/min) 0.125 once a day 1.5 once a day Very severe impairment (creatinine Cl <15 mL/min and hemodialysis patients) The use of pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets has not been adequately studied in this group of patients. Thereafter, the dose may be reduced by 0.375 mg per day [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.10, 5.11 ) ]. 2.3 Dosing for Restless Legs Syndrome The recommended starting dose of pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets is 0.125 mg taken once daily 2 to 3 hours before bedtime. For patients requiring additional symptomatic relief, the dose may be increased every 4 to 7 days (Table 3). Although the dose of pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets was increased to 0.75 mg in some patients during long-term open-label treatment, there is no evidence that the 0.75 mg dose provides additional benefit beyond the 0.5 mg dose. Table 3 Ascending Dosage Schedule of Pramipexole Dihydrochloride tablets for RLS *if needed Titration Step Duration Dose (mg) to be taken once daily, 2 to 3 hours before bedtime 1 4 to 7 days 0.125 2* 4 to 7 days 0.25 3* 4 to 7 days 0.5 Dosing in Patients with Renal Impairment The duration between titration steps should be increased to 14 days in RLS patients with moderate and severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance 20 to 60 mL/min) [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Discontinuation of Treatment In clinical trials of patients being treated for RLS with doses up to 0.75 mg once daily, pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets were discontinued without a taper. In a 26 week placebo-controlled clinical trial, patients reported a worsening of RLS symptom severity as compared to their untreated baseline when pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets treatment was suddenly withdrawn [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Parkinson's Disease-Normal Renal Function* (2.2) Week Dosage (mg) Total Daily Dose (mg) 1 0.125 TID 0.375 2 0.25 TID 0.75 3 0.5 TID 1.5 4 0.75 TID 2.25 5 1 TID 3 6 1.25 TID 3.75 7 1.5 TID 4.5 * Doses should not be increased more frequently than every 5 to 7 days. Parkinson's Disease-Impaired Renal Function (2.2) Creatinine Clearance Starting Dose (mg) Maximum Dose (mg) > 50 mL/min 0.125 TID 1.5 TID 30 to 50 mL/min 0.125 BID 0.75 TID 15 to 30 mL/min 0.125 QD 1.5 QD < 15 mL/min and hemodialysis patients Data not available Restless Legs Syndrome* (2.3) Titration Step Dose (mg) 2 to 3 hours before bedtime 1 0.125 2 (if needed) 0.25 3 (if needed) 0.5 * Dosing interval is 4 to 7 days (14 days in patients with CrCl 20 to 60 mL/min) 2.1 General Dosing Considerations Pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets are taken orally, with or without food. A suggested ascending dosage schedule that was used in clinical studies is shown in Table 1: Table 1 Ascending Dosage Schedule of Pramipexole Dihydrochloride Tablets for Parkinson's Disease Week Dosage (mg) Total Daily Dose (mg) 1 0.125 three times a day 0.375 2 0.25 three times a day 0.75 3 0.5 three times a day 1.50 4 0.75 three times a day 2.25 5 1 three times a day 3.0 6 1.25 three times a day 3.75 7 1.5 three times a day 4.50 Maintenance Treatment Pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets were effective and well tolerated over a dosage range of 1.5 to 4.5 mg/day administered in equally divided doses three times per day with or without concomitant levodopa (approximately 800 mg/day). Table 2 Dosing of Pramipexole Dihydrochloride Tablets in Parkinson's Disease Patients with Renal Impairment Renal Status Starting Dose (mg) Maximum Dose (mg) Normal to mild impairment (creatinine Cl > 50 mL/min) 0.125 three times a day 1.5 three times a day Moderate impairment (creatinine Cl = 30 to 50 mL/min) 0.125 twice a day 0.75 three times a day Severe impairment (creatinine Cl = 15 to <30 mL/min) 0.125 once a day 1.5 once a day Very severe impairment (creatinine Cl < 15 mL/min and hemodialysis patients) The use of pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets has not been adequately studied in this group of patients. Thereafter, the dose may be reduced by 0.375 mg per day [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.10, 5.11) ]. Table 3 Ascending Dosage Schedule of Pramipexole Dihydrochloride Tablets for RLS *If needed Titration Step Duration Dose (mg) to be taken once daily, 2 to 3 hours before bedtime 1 4 to 7 days 0.125 2* 4 to 7 days 0.25 3* 4 to 7 days 0.5 Dosing in Patients with Renal Impairment The duration between titration steps should be increased to 14 days in RLS patients with moderate and severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance 20 to 60 mL/min) [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Parkinson’s Disease-Normal Renal Function* ( 2.2 ) Week Dosage (mg) Total Daily Dose (mg) 1 0.125 TID 0.375 2 0.25 TID 0.75 3 0.5 TID 1.5 4 0.75 TID 2.25 5 1 TID 3 6 1.25 TID 3.75 7 1.5 TID 4.5 * Doses should not be increased more frequently than every 5-7 days. Parkinson’s Disease-Impaired Renal Function ( 2.2 ) Creatinine Clearance Starting Dose (mg) Maximum Dose (mg) > 50 mL/min 0.125 TID 1.5 TID 30 to 50 mL/min 0.125 BID 0.75 TID 15 to 30 mL/min 0.125 QD 1.5 QD < 15 mL/min and hemodialysis patients Data not available Restless Legs Syndrome * ( 2.3 ) Titration Step Dose (mg) 2-3 hours before bedtime 1 0.125 2 (if needed) 0.25 3 (if needed) 0.5 *Dosing interval is 4-7 days (14 days in patients with CrCl 20-60 mL/min) 2.1 General Dosing Considerations Pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets are taken orally, with or without food. 2.2 Dosing for Parkinson’s Disease In all clinical studies, dosage was initiated at a subtherapeutic level to avoid intolerable adverse effects and orthostatic hypotension. A suggested ascending dosage schedule that was used in clinical studies is shown in Table 1: Table 1 Ascending Dosage Schedule of Pramipexole Dihydrochloride Tablets for Parkinson’s Disease Week Dosage (mg) Total Daily Dose (mg) 1 0.125 three times a day 0.375 2 0.25 three times a day 0.75 3 0.5 three times a day 1.50 4 0.75 three times a day 2.25 5 1 three times a day 3.0 6 1.25 three times a day 3.75 7 1.5 three times a day 4.50 Maintenance Treatment Pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets were effective and well tolerated over a dosage range of 1.5 to 4.5 mg/day administered in equally divided doses three times per day with or without concomitant levodopa (approximately 800 mg/day). Thereafter, the dose may be reduced by 0.375 mg per day [ see Warnings and Precautions( 5.10 ) ( 5.11 ) ]. Table 3 Ascending Dosage Schedule of Pramipexole Dihydrochloride tablets for RLS Titration Step Duration Dose (mg) to be taken once daily, 2-3 hours before bedtime 1 4-7 days 0.125 2 * 4-7 days 0.25 3 * 4-7 days 0.5 * if needed Dosing in Patients with Renal Impairment The duration between titration steps should be increased to 14 days in RLS patients with moderate and severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance 20 to 60 mL/min) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. In a 26 week placebo-controlled clinical trial, patients reported a worsening of RLS symptom severity as compared to their untreated baseline when pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets treatment was suddenly withdrawn [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 ) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Parkinson’s Disease-Normal Renal Function* ( 2.2 ) Week Dosage (mg) Total Daily Dose (mg) 1 0.125 TID 0.375 2 0.25 TID 0.75 3 0.5 TID 1.5 4 0.75 TID 2.25 5 1 TID 3 6 1.25 TID 3.75 7 1.5 TID 4.5 * Doses should not be increased more frequently than every 5 to 7 days. Parkinson’s Disease-Impaired Renal Function (2.2) Creatinine Clearance Starting Dose (mg) Maximum Dose (mg) <15 mL/min and hemodialysis patients Data not available >50 mL/min 0.125 TID 1.5 TID 30 to 50 mL/min 0.125 BID 0.75 TID 15 to 30 mL/min 0.125 QD 1.5 QD Restless Legs Syndrome* ( 2.3 ) Titration Step Dose (mg) 2 to 3 hours before bedtime 1 0.125 2 (if needed) 0.25 3 (if needed) 0.5 * Dosing interval is 4 to 7 days (14 days in patients with CrCl 20 to 60 mL/min) 2.1 General Dosing Considerations Pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets are taken orally, with or without food. Table 2 Dosing of Pramipexole Dihydrochloride tablets in Parkinson’s Disease Patients with Renal Impairment Renal Status Starting Dose (mg) Maximum Dose (mg) Normal to mild impairment (creatinine Cl > 50 mL/min) 0.125 three times a day 1.5 three times a day Moderate impairment (creatinine Cl =30 to 50 mL/min) 0.125 twice a day 0.75 three times a day Severe impairment (creatinine Cl =15 to <30 mL/min) 0.125 once a day 1.5 once a day Very severe impairment (creatinine Cl <15 mL/min and hemodialysis patients) The use of pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets has not been adequately studied in this group of patients. Thereafter, the dose may be reduced by 0.375 mg per day [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10 , 5.11) ] . In a 26 week placebo-controlled clinical trial, patients reported a worsening of RLS symptom severity as compared to their untreated baseline when pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets treatment was suddenly withdrawn [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] .
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None. None (4) None ( 4 ) None. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Dopamine antagonists: May diminish the effectiveness of pramipexole (7.1). 7.1 Dopamine Antagonists Since pramipexole is a dopamine agonist, it is possible that dopamine antagonists, such as the neuroleptics (phenothiazines, butyrophenones, thioxanthenes) or metoclopramide, may diminish the effectiveness of pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets. 7.1 Dopamine Antagonists Since pramipexole is a dopamine agonist, it is possible that dopamine antagonists, such as the neuroleptics (phenothiazines, butyrophenones, thioxanthenes) or metoclopramide, may diminish the effectiveness of pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Dopamine antagonists: May diminish the effectiveness of pramipexole ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Dopamine Antagonists Since pramipexole is a dopamine agonist, it is possible that dopamine antagonists, such as the neuroleptics (phenothiazines, butyrophenones, thioxanthenes) or metoclopramide, may diminish the effectiveness of pramipexole dihydrochloride extended-release tablets. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Dopamine antagonists: May diminish the effectiveness of pramipexole (7.1) 7.1 Dopamine Antagonists Since pramipexole is a dopamine agonist, it is possible that dopamine antagonists, such as the neuroleptics (phenothiazines, butyrophenones, thioxanthenes) or metoclopramide, may diminish the effectiveness of pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Dopamine antagonists: May diminish the effectiveness of pramipexole ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Dopamine Antagonists Since pramipexole is a dopamine agonist, it is possible that dopamine antagonists, such as the neuroleptics (phenothiazines, butyrophenones, thioxanthenes) or metoclopramide, may diminish the effectiveness of pramipexole dihydrochloride tablets. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Dopamine antagonists: May diminish the effectiveness of pramipexole ( 7.1 ).

=== PSYLLIUM HUSK ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Bulk-Forming Laxative Purpose Fiber laxative Active ingredient (in each packet) Purpose Psyllium seed husk 3.4 g.................... Bulk-forming laxative
Indications: Use For relief of occasional constipation and to induce regularity. Generally produces bowel movements within 12-72 hours. Use For relief of occasional constipation (regularity) Uses: for relief of occasional constipation (irregularity) generally produces bowel movement in 12-72 hours Uses for relief of occasional constipation (irregularity). This product generally produces bowel movement in 12 to 72 hours. Uses effective in treating occasional constipation and restoring regularity Uses: ▪ for relief of occasional constipation (irregularity) ▪ generally produces bowel movement in 12-72 hours
Dosage: Directions Mix this product (child or adult dose) with at least 8 ounces (a full glass) of water or other fluid. Taking this product without enough fluid may cause choking. See choking warnings. Adults and children 12 years and older One teaspoon 1 to 3 times daily Children 6 years to under 12 years of age ½ teaspoon 1 to 3 times daily Childre4n under 6 years of age Consult a doctor Directions Put one dose into an empty glass. Mix this product (child or adult dose) with at least 8 ounces (a full glass) of water or other fluid. Taking this product without enough liquid may cause choking. See choking warning. Stir briskly and drink promptly. If mixture thickens, add more liquid. Adults 12 Years and older: 1 rounded TEASPOON into an 8 oz of liquid at the first sign of irregularity. Can be taken up to 3 times daily. Generally produces effect in 12-72 hours. Children under 12 years: Consult a doctor before use. Bulk-forming fibers like Psyllium husk may affect how well other medicines work, If you are taking a prescription medicine by mouth, take this product at least 2 hours before or after the prescribed medicine. As your body adjusts to increased fiber intake, you may experience changes in bowel habits or minor bloating. NEW USERS Start with 1 serving per day; gradually increase to desired daily intake. You may initially experience changes in bowel habits or minor bloating as your body adjusts to increased fiber intake. Keep Out of Reach of Children Directions: Put one dose into an empty glass. If mixture thickens, add more liquid and stir. Adults & children 12 years & older: 1 rounded tablespoon in 8 ounces of liquid at the first sign of irregularity. Children 6-11 yrs : ½ adult dose in 8 ounces of liquid, up to 3 times daily Children under 6 yrs: Consult a doctor Bulk-forming fibers like psyllium husk may affect how well other medicines work. If you are taking a prescription medicine by mouth, take this product at least 2 hours before or 2 hours after the prescribed medicine. New Users: Start with 1 serving per day; gradually increased to desired daily intake. You may initially experience changes in bowel habits or minor bloating, as your body adjusts to increased fiber intake. Directions Put one dose into an empty glass.Mix this product (child or adult dose) with at least 8 ounces (a full glass) of water or other fluid. For a lighter flavor experience and thinner drink, use more water. Adults 12 yrs. & older 1 packet in 8 oz of liquid at the first sign of irregularity. 6 – 11 yrs. 1/2 packet in 8 oz of liquid, up to 3 times daily Under 6 yrs. Consult a doctor As your body adjusts to increased fiber intake, you may experience changes in bowel habits or minor bloating. New Users: Start with 1 dose per day; gradually increase to 3 doses per day as necessary. adults and children 12 years of age and older 1 packet up to 3 times a day children 6 to under 12 years of age 1/2 packet up to 3 times a day children under 6 years of age consult a doctor First time users: Start with the 1 packet per day, gradually increase to 3 times a day, as necessary. As your body adjust to increased fiber intake, you may experience changes in bowel habits and/or minor bloating. Directions Take this product with at least 8 ounces (a full glass) of water or other fluid. Adults 12 years and older: 5 capsules with at least 8 ounces. of liquid (swallow 1 capsule at a time) at the first sign of irregularity. Generally produces effect in 12-72 hours children 12 years and under: Ask a doctor Laxatives, including bulk fibers, may affect how well other medicines work. If you are taking a prescription medication by mouth, take this product at least 2 hours before or 2 hours after the prescribed medicine. Adults 12 years and older: 5 capsules with at least 8 oz. children 12 years and under: Ask a doctor Laxatives, including bulk fibers, may affect how well other medicines work. Adults & children 12 years & older: 1 rounded TEASPOON in 8 oz. of liquid at the first sign of irregularity. Children 6-11 yrs : ½ adult dose in 8 oz. of liquid, up to 3 times daily Children under 6 yrs: Consult a doctor Bulk-forming fibers like psyllium husk may affect how well other medicines work. New Users: Start with 1 serving per day; gradually increase to 3 doses per day as necessary. Adults & Children 12 years & older: 1 rounded teaspoon in 8 ounces of liquid at the first sign of irregularity. Children 6-11 yrs : ½ adult dose in 8 ounces of liquid, up to 3 times daily Children under 6 yrs: Consult a doctor Bulk forming fibers like psyllium husk may affect how well other medicines work. New Users Start with 1 serving per day; gradually increased to desired daily intake.
Warnings: Warnings Allergy alert: As with any natural grain product, inhaled or ingested psyllium powder may cause an allergic reaction in people sensitive to psyllium. Choking Taking this product without adequate fluid may cause it to swell and block your throat or esophagus and may cause choking. Do not take this product if you have difficulty in swallowing. If you experience chest pain, vomiting or difficulty in swallowing or breathing after taking this product, seek immediate medical attention. Warnings Choking: Taking this product without adequate fluid may cause it to swell and block your throat or esophagus and may cause choking. Do not take this product, if you have difficulty in swallowing. Allergy alert: This product may cause an allergic reaction in people sensitive to inhaled or ingested psyllium. Safety Warning TAMPER-EVIDENT: DO NOT USE IF PRINTED SEAL UNDER CAP IS TORN OR MISSING Warnings: Choking: Taking this product without adequate fluid may cause it to swell and block your throat or esophagus and may cause choking. If you experience chest pain, vomiting, or difficulty in swallowing or breathing after taking this product, seek immediate medical attention. Allergy alert: This product may cause allergic reaction in people sensitive to inhaled or ingested psyllium. Ask a doctor before use if you have a sudden change in bowel habits persisting for 2 weeks abdominal pain, nausea or vomiting Stop use and ask a doctor if constipation lasts more than 7 days rectal bleeding occurs These may be signs of a serious condition. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1-800-222-1222. Warnings Choking: Taking this product without adequate fluid may cause it to swell and block your throat or esophagus andmay cause choking. ALLERGY ALERT: This product may cause allergic reactions in people sensitive to inhaled or ingested psyllium. Allergy Alert: This product may cause allergic reactions in people, sensitive to inhaled or ingested psyllium. Do not use if allergic to any ingredient in this product Ask a doctor before use if you have abdominal pain, nausea or vomiting noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks a sodium restricted diet Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other drug. Laxatives may affect how other drugs work. When using this product take this product 2 hours before or after other drugs Stop use and ask a doctor if • constipation lasts more than 7 days • rectal bleeding occurs • you fail to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative. These may be signs of a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Choking Taking this product without adequate fluid may cause it to swell and block your throat or esophagus and may cause choking. Allergy alert This product may cause allergic reaction in people sensitive to inhaled or ingested psyllium. Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1-800-222-1222. Ask a doctor before use if you have ▪ a sudden change in bowel habits persisting for 2 weeks ▪ abdominal pain, nausea or vomiting Stop use and ask a doctor if ▪ constipation lasts more than 7 days ▪ rectal bleeding occurs These may be signs of a serious condition.

=== SACUBITRIL AND VALSARTAN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ENTRESTO is a combination of sacubitril, a neprilisin inhibitor, and valsartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker, and is indicated: to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death and hospitalization for heart failure in adult patients with chronic heart failure. Benefits are most clearly evident in patients with left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) below normal. ( 1.1 ) for the treatment of symptomatic heart failure with systemic left ventricular systolic dysfunction in pediatric patients aged one year and older. ENTRESTO reduces NT-proBNP and is expected to improve cardiovascular outcomes. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Adult Heart Failure ENTRESTO is indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death and hospitalization for heart failure in adult patients with chronic heart failure. LVEF is a variable measure, so use clinical judgment in deciding whom to treat [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] . 1.2 Pediatric Heart Failure ENTRESTO is indicated for the treatment of symptomatic heart failure with systemic left ventricular systolic dysfunction in pediatric patients aged one year and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sacubitril and valsartan tablets are a combination of sacubitril, a neprilisin inhibitor, and valsartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker, and sacubitril and valsartan tablets are indicated: • to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death and hospitalization for heart failure in adult patients with chronic heart failure. ( 1.1 ) • for the treatment of symptomatic heart failure with systemic left ventricular systolic dysfunction in pediatric patients aged one year and older. Sacubitril and Valsartan reduces NT-proBNP and is expected to improve cardiovascular outcomes. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Adult Heart Failure Sacubitril and valsartan tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death and hospitalization for heart failure in adult patients with chronic heart failure. LVEF is a variable measure, so use clinical judgment in deciding whom to treat [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . 1.2 Pediatric Heart Failure Sacubitril and valsartan tablets are indicated for the treatment of symptomatic heart failure with systemic left ventricular systolic dysfunction in pediatric patients aged one year and older. Sacubitril and valsartan tablets reduces NT-proBNP and is expected to improve cardiovascular outcomes. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ENTRESTO is indicated: to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death and hospitalization for heart failure in adult patients with chronic heart failure. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sacubitril and valsartan tablets are a combination of sacubitril, a neprilisin inhibitor, and valsartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker, and is indicated: to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death and hospitalization for heart failure in adult patients with chronic heart failure and reduced ejection fraction. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Adult Heart Failure Sacubitril and valsartan tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death and hospitalization for heart failure in adult patients with chronic heart failure and reduced ejection fraction. Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) is a variable measure, so use clinical judgment in deciding whom to treat [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ].
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended starting dosage for adults is 49 mg/51 mg orally twice daily. The target maintenance dose is 97 mg/103mg orally twice daily. ( 2.2 ) Adjust adult doses every 2 to 4 weeks to the target maintenance dose, as tolerated by the patient. ( 2.2 ) For pediatric patients, see the Full Prescribing Information for recommended dosage, titrations, preparation and administration instructions. ( 2.3 , 2.4 , 2.5 ) Reduce starting dose to half the usually recommended starting dosage for: patients not currently taking an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor or angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) or previously taking a low dose of these agents. ( 2.6 ) patients with severe renal impairment. ( 2.7 ) patients with moderate hepatic impairment. ( 2.8 ) 2.1 General Considerations ENTRESTO is contraindicated with concomitant use of an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. If switching from an ACE inhibitor to ENTRESTO allow a washout period of 36 hours between administration of the two drugs [see Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7.1)] . 2.2 Adult Heart Failure The recommended starting dose of ENTRESTO is 49/51 mg orally twice-daily. Double the dose of ENTRESTO after 2 to 4 weeks to the target maintenance dose of 97/103 mg twice daily, as tolerated by the patient. 2.3 Pediatric Heart Failure For the recommended dosage for pediatric patients aged 1 year and older, refer to Table 1 if using the tablets, or Table 2 if using the oral pellets. Take the recommended dose orally twice daily. Adjust pediatric patient doses every 2 weeks, as tolerated by the patient. Table 1: Recommended Dose and Titration for Pediatric Patients Using Tablets † Use of the oral suspension or oral pellets (see Table 2) is recommended in these patients. Recommended mg/kg doses are of the combined amount of both sacubitril and valsartan [see Dosage and Administration (2.4, 2.5)] . ‡ Doses of 72 mg/78 mg can be achieved using three 24 mg/26 mg tablets [see Dosage Forms and Strengths (3)] . Titration Step Dose (twice daily) Weight (kg) Starting Second Final Less than 40 kg † 1.6 mg/kg 2.3 mg/kg 3.1 mg/kg At least 40 kg, less than 50 kg 24 mg/26 mg 49 mg/51 mg 72 mg/78 mg ‡ At least 50 kg 49 mg/51 mg 72 mg/78 mg ‡ 97 mg/103 mg Table 2: Recommended Dose and Titration for Pediatric Patients using ENTRESTO SPRINKLE † † When using capsules, more than one capsule may be needed to achieve recommended doses. Oral pellets are contained within each capsule. Use the entire contents of the capsules to achieve the dose. ‡ Recommended mg/kg doses are of the combined amount of sacubitril and valsartan [see Dosage and administration (2.4)] . * For patients 50 kg or more, see Table 1. Titration Step Dose (twice daily) Weight (kg) * Starting Second Final Less than 13 (use oral suspension ‡ ) 1.6 mg/kg 2.3 mg/kg 3.1 mg/kg 13 to less than 19 12 mg/12 mg (Two 6 mg/6 mg capsules) 18 mg/18 mg (Three 6 mg/6 mg capsules) 24 mg/24 mg (Four 6 mg/6 mg capsules) 19 to less than 26 18 mg/18 mg (Three 6 mg/6 mg capsules) 24 mg/24 mg (Four 6 mg/6 mg capsules) 30 mg/32 mg (Two 15 mg/16 mg capsules) 26 to less than 34 24 mg/24 mg (Four 6 mg/6 mg capsules) 30 mg/32 mg (Two 15 mg/16 mg capsules) 45 mg/48 mg (Three 15 mg/16 mg capsules) 34 to less than 50 * 30 mg/32 mg (Two 15 mg/16 mg capsules) 45 mg/48 mg (Three 15 mg/16 mg capsules) 60 mg/64 mg (Four 15 mg/16 mg capsules) 2.4 Preparation of Oral Suspension Using Tablets ENTRESTO oral suspension can be substituted at the recommended tablet dosage in patients unable to swallow tablets. ENTRESTO 800 mg/200 mL oral suspension can be prepared in a concentration of 4 mg/mL (sacubitril/valsartan 1.96/2.04 mg/mL). Use ENTRESTO 49/51 mg tablets in the preparation of the suspension. To make an 800 mg/200 mL (4 mg/mL) oral suspension, transfer eight tablets of ENTRESTO 49/51 mg film-coated tablets into a mortar. Crush the tablets into a fine powder using a pestle. Add 60 mL of Ora-Plus ® into the mortar and triturate gently with pestle for 10 minutes, to form a uniform suspension. Add 140 mL of Ora-Sweet ® SF into mortar and triturate with pestle for another 10 minutes, to form a uniform suspension. Transfer the entire contents from the mortar into a clean 200 mL amber colored PET or glass bottle. Place a press-in bottle adapter and close the bottle with a child resistant cap. The oral suspension can be stored for up to 15 days. Do not store above 25°C (77°F) and do not refrigerate. Shake before each use. * Ora-Sweet SF ® and Ora-Plus ® are registered trademarks of Paddock Laboratories, Inc. 2.5 Preparation and Administration of Oral Pellets ENTRESTO SPRINKLE are oral pellets contained within capsules. Do not swallow the capsules. Do not chew or crush the oral pellets. ENTRESTO SPRINKLE can also be substituted in patients unable to swallow tablets. To administer ENTRESTO oral pellets, open the capsule and sprinkle the full content onto 1 to 2 teaspoons of soft food. Consume the food containing the oral pellets immediately after adding them. Empty capsule shells must be discarded after use and not swallowed. Do not administer ENTRESTO oral pellets via nasogastric, gastrostomy, or other enteral tubes because it may cause obstruction of enteral tubes. 2.6 Dose Adjustment for Patients Not Taking an ACE inhibitor or ARB or Previously Taking Low Doses of These Agents In patients not currently taking an ACE inhibitor or an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and for patients previously taking low doses of these agents, start ENTRESTO at half the usually recommended starting dose. After initiation, increase the dose every 2 to 4 weeks in adults and every 2 weeks in pediatric patients to follow the recommended dose escalation thereafter [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.3)] . Note: Initiate pediatric patients weighing 40 to 50 kg who meet this criterion at 0.8 mg/kg twice daily using the oral suspension or oral pellets [see Dosage and Administration (2.3, 2.4, 2.5)] . 2.7 Dose Adjustment for Severe Renal Impairment In adults and pediatric patients with severe renal impairment estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), start ENTRESTO at half the usually recommended starting dose. After initiation, increase the dose to follow the recommended dose escalation thereafter [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.3)] . No starting dose adjustment is needed for mild or moderate renal impairment. 2.8 Dose Adjustment for Hepatic Impairment In adults and pediatric patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B classification), start ENTRESTO at half the usually recommended starting dose. No starting dose adjustment is needed for mild hepatic impairment. Use in patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The recommended starting dosage for adults is 49 mg/51 mg orally twice daily. The target maintenance dose is 97 mg/103 mg orally twice daily. ( 2.2 ) • Adjust adult doses every 2 to 4 weeks to the target maintenance dose, as tolerated by the patient. ( 2.2 ) • For pediatric patients, see the Full Prescribing Information for recommended dosage, titrations, preparation and administration instructions. ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) • Reduce starting dose to half the usually recommended starting dosage for: o patients not currently taking an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor or angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) or previously taking a low dose of these agents. ( 2.6 ) o patients with severe renal impairment. ( 2.7 ) o patients with moderate hepatic impairment. ( 2.8 ) 2.1 General Considerations Sacubitril and valsartan tablets are contraindicated with concomitant use of an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. If switching from an ACE inhibitor to sacubitril and valsartan tablets allow a washout period of 36 hours between administration of the two drugs [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. 2.2 Adult Heart Failure The recommended starting dose of sacubitril and valsartan tablets are 49/51 mg orally twice-daily. Double the dose of sacubitril and valsartan tablets after 2 to 4 weeks to the target maintenance dose of 97/103 mg twice daily, as tolerated by the patient. 2.3 Pediatric Heart Failure For the recommended dosage for pediatric patients aged 1 year and older, refer to Table 1 if using the tablets. Table 1: Recommended Dose and Titration for Pediatric Patients Using Tablets Weight (kg) Titration Step Dose (twice daily) Starting Second Final Less than 40 kg † 1.6 mg/kg 2.3 mg/kg 3.1 mg/kg At least 40 kg, less than 50 kg 24 mg/26 mg 49 mg/51 mg 72 mg/78 mg ‡ At least 50 kg 49 mg/51 mg 72 mg/78 mg ‡ 97 mg/103 mg † Use of the oral suspension is recommended in these patients. Recommended mg/kg doses are of the combined amount of both sacubitril and valsartan [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )] . ‡ Doses of 72 mg/78 mg can be achieved using three 24 mg/26 mg tablets [see Dosage Forms and Strengths ( 3 )]. 2.4 Preparation of Oral Suspension Using Tablets Sacubitril and valsartan oral suspension can be substituted at the recommended tablet dosage in patients unable to swallow tablets. Sacubitril and valsartan 800 mg/200 mL oral suspension can be prepared in a concentration of 4 mg/mL (sacubitril/valsartan 1.96/2.04 mg/mL). Use sacubitril and valsartan 49/51 mg tablets in the preparation of the suspension. To make an 800 mg/200 mL (4 mg/mL) oral suspension, transfer eight tablets of sacubitril and valsartan 49/51 mg film-coated tablets into a mortar. *Ora-Sweet SF ® and Ora-Plus ® are registered trademarks of Paddock Laboratories, Inc. 2.6 Dose Adjustment for Patients Not Taking an ACE inhibitor or ARB or Previously Taking Low Doses of These Agents In patients not currently taking an ACE inhibitor or an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and for patients previously taking low doses of these agents, start sacubitril and valsartan tablets at half the usually recommended starting dose. After initiation, increase the dose every 2 to 4 weeks in adults and every 2 weeks in pediatric patients to follow the recommended dose escalation thereafter [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.3 )]. Note: Initiate pediatric patients weighing 40 to 50 kg who meet this criterion at 0.8 mg/kg twice daily using the oral suspension [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 , 2.4 )]. 2.7 Dose Adjustment for Severe Renal Impairment In adults and pediatric patients with severe renal impairment estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), start sacubitril and valsartan tablets at half the usually recommended starting dose. After initiation, increase the dose to follow the recommended dose escalation thereafter [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.3 )] . Note: Initiate pediatric patients weighing 40 to 50 kg who meet this criterion at 0.8 mg/kg twice daily using the oral suspension [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 , 2.4 )] . 2.8 Dose Adjustment for Hepatic Impairment In adults and pediatric patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B classification), start sacubitril and valsartan tablets at half the usually recommended starting dose. After initiation, increase the dose to follow the recommended dose escalation thereafter [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) ]. Note: Initiate pediatric patients weighing 40 to 50 kg who meet this criterion at 0.8 mg/kg twice daily using the oral suspension [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indication Titration Step Dose (twice daily) Starting Second Final Adult Heart Failure 49/51 mg 97/103 mg Pediatric Heart Failure Patients less than 40 kg 1.6 mg/kg 2.3 mg/kg 3.1 mg/kg Pediatric Heart Failure Patients at least 40 kg, less than 50 kg 24/26 mg 49/51 mg 72/78 mg Pediatric Heart Failure Patients at least 50 kg 49/51 mg 72/78 mg 97/103 mg Adjust adult doses every 2 to 4 weeks and pediatric doses every 2 weeks to the target maintenance dose, as tolerated by the patient. ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) Reduce starting dose to half the usually recommended starting dosage for: - patients not currently taking an ACE inhibitor or ARB or previously taking a low dose of these agents ( 2.5 ) - patients with severe renal impairment ( 2.6 ) - patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( 2.7 ) 2.1 General Considerations ENTRESTO is contraindicated with concomitant use of an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. 2.3 Pediatric Heart Failure Refer to Table 1 for the recommended dose for pediatric patients aged one year and older. Table 1: Recommended Dose Titration † Use of the Oral Suspension recommended in these patients. Recommended mg/kg doses are of the combined amount of both sacubitril and valsartan [see Dosage and Administration (2.4)] . ‡ Doses of 72/78 mg can be achieved using three 24/26 mg tablets [see Dosage Forms and Strengths (3)] . Titration Step Dose (twice daily) Starting Second Final Pediatric Patients Less than 40 kg † 1.6 mg/kg 2.3 mg/kg 3.1 mg/kg Pediatric Patients At least 40 kg, less than 50 kg 24/26 mg 49/51 mg 72/78 mg ‡ Pediatric Patients At least 50 kg 49/51 mg 72/78 mg ‡ 97/103 mg 2.4 Preparation of Oral Suspension ENTRESTO oral suspension can be substituted at the recommended tablet dosage in patients unable to swallow tablets. 2.5 Dose Adjustment for Patients Not Taking an ACE inhibitor or ARB or Previously Taking Low Doses of These Agents In patients not currently taking an ACE inhibitor or an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) and for patients previously taking low doses of these agents, start ENTRESTO at half the usually recommended starting dose. Note: Initiate pediatric patients weighing 40 to 50 kg who meet this criterion at 0.8 mg/kg twice daily using the oral suspension [see Dosage and Administration (2.3, 2.4)] . 2.6 Dose Adjustment for Severe Renal Impairment In adults and pediatric patients with severe renal impairment (eGFR < 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), start ENTRESTO at half the usually recommended starting dose. 2.7 Dose Adjustment for Hepatic Impairment In adults and pediatric patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B classification), start ENTRESTO at half the usually recommended starting dose. ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) Reduce starting dose to half the usually recommended starting dosage for: o patients with severe renal impairment ( 2.7 ) o patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( 2.8 ) 2.1 General Considerations Sacubitril and valsartan tablets are contraindicated with concomitant use of an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. If switching from an ACE inhibitor to sacubitril and valsartan tablets allow a washout period of 36 hours between administration of the two drugs [see Contraindications ( 4) and Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . 2.2 Adult Heart Failure The recommended starting dose of sacubitril and valsartan tablet is 49/51 mg orally twice-daily. Table 1: Recommended Dose and Titration for Pediatric Patients Using Tablets Titration Step Dose (twice daily) Starting Second Final Less than 40 kg † 1.6 mg/kg 2.3 mg/kg 3.1 mg/kg At least 40 kg, less than 50 kg 24 mg/26 mg 49 mg/51 mg 72 mg/78 mg ‡ At least 50 kg 49 mg/51 mg 72 mg/78 mg ‡ 97 mg/103 mg † Use of the oral suspension recommended in these patients. Recommended mg/kg doses are of the combined amount of both sacubitril and valsartan [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ]. ‡ Doses of 72 mg/78 mg can be achieved using three 24 mg/26 mg tablets [see Dosage Forms and Strengths (3) ]. 2.4 Preparation of Oral Suspension Using Tablets Sacubitril and valsartan tablets oral suspension can be substituted at the recommended tablet dosage in patients unable to swallow tablets. Sacubitril and valsartan tablets 800 mg/200 mL oral suspension can be prepared in a concentration of 4 mg/mL (sacubitril/valsartan 1.96/2.04 mg/mL). Use sacubitril and valsartan tablets 49/51 mg tablets in the preparation of the suspension. To make an 800 mg/200 mL (4 mg/mL) oral suspension, transfer eight tablets of sacubitril and valsartan tablets 49/51 mg film-coated tablets into a mortar. After initiation, increase the dose to follow the recommended dose escalation thereafter [see Dosage and Administration (2.2 , 2.3) ] . Note: Initiate pediatric patients weighing 40 to 50 kg who meet this criterion at 0.8 mg/kg twice daily using the oral suspension [see Dosage and Administration (2.3 , 2.4) ]. After initiation, increase the dose to follow the recommended dose escalation thereafter [see Dosage and Administration (2.2 , 2.3) ].
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ENTRESTO is contraindicated: in patients with hypersensitivity to any component in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] with concomitant use of ACE inhibitors. Do not administer within 36 hours of switching from or to an ACE inhibitor [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] with concomitant use of aliskiren in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] Hypersensitivity to any component. ( 4 ) History of angioedema related to previous ACEi or ARB therapy. ( 4 ) Concomitant use with ACE inhibitors. ( 4 , 7.1 ) Concomitant use with aliskiren in patients with diabetes. ( 4 , 7.1 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sacubitril and valsartan tablets are contraindicated: • in patients with hypersensitivity to any component • in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] • with concomitant use of ACE inhibitors. Do not administer within 36 hours of switching from or to an ACE inhibitor [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] • with concomitant use of aliskiren in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] Hypersensitivity to any component. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sacubitril and valsartan is contraindicated: • in patients with hypersensitivity to any component • in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] • with concomitant use of ACE inhibitors. Do not administer within 36 hours of switching from or to an ACE inhibitor [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] • with concomitant use of aliskiren in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] • Hypersensitivity to any component. ( 4 ) • History of angioedema related to previous ACEi or ARB therapy. ( 4 ) • Concomitant use with ACE inhibitors. ( 4 , 7.1 ) • Concomitant use with aliskiren in patients with diabetes.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Avoid concomitant use with aliskiren in patients with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) less than 60. ( 7.1 ) Potassium-sparing diuretics: May lead to increased serum potassium. ( 7.2 ) Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): May lead to increased risk of renal impairment. ( 7.3 ) Lithium: Increased risk of lithium toxicity. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System Concomitant use of ENTRESTO with an ACE inhibitor is contraindicated because of the increased risk of angioedema [see Contraindications (4)] . Avoid use of ENTRESTO with an ARB, because ENTRESTO contains the angiotensin II receptor blocker valsartan. The concomitant use of ENTRESTO with aliskiren is contraindicated in patients with diabetes [see Contraindications (4)] . Avoid use with aliskiren in patients with renal impairment (eGFR less than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ). 7.2 Potassium-Sparing Diuretics As with other drugs that block angiotensin II or its effects, concomitant use of potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, amiloride), potassium supplements, or salt substitutes containing potassium may lead to increases in serum potassium [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] . 7.3 Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, concomitant use of NSAIDs, including COX-2 inhibitors, with ENTRESTO may result in worsening of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically. 7.4 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use with ENTRESTO. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Avoid concomitant use with aliskiren in patients with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) less than 60. ( 7.1 ) • Potassium-sparing diuretics: May lead to increased serum potassium. ( 7.2 ) • Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): May lead to increased risk of renal impairment. ( 7.3 ) • Lithium: Increased risk of lithium toxicity. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System Concomitant use of sacubitril and valsartan tablets with an ACE inhibitor is contraindicated because of the increased risk of angioedema [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Avoid use of sacubitril and valsartan tablets with an ARB, because sacubitril and valsartan tablets contains the angiotensin II receptor blocker valsartan. The concomitant use of sacubitril and valsartan tablets with aliskiren is contraindicated in patients with diabetes [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Avoid use with aliskiren in patients with renal impairment (eGFR less than 60 mL/min/1.73 m²). 7.2 Potassium-Sparing Diuretics As with other drugs that block angiotensin II or its effects, concomitant use of potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, amiloride), potassium supplements, or salt substitutes containing potassium may lead to increases in serum potassium [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )]. 7.3 Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, concomitant use of NSAIDs, including COX-2 inhibitors, with sacubitril and valsartan tablets may result in worsening of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use with sacubitril and valsartan tablets. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Avoid concomitant use with aliskiren in patients with eGFR < 60. ( 7.2 ) NSAIDs: May lead to increased risk of renal impairment. Avoid use with aliskiren in patients with renal impairment (eGFR < 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ). ( 7.4) 7.1 Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System Concomitant use of sacubitril and valsartan with an ACE inhibitor is contraindicated because of the increased risk of angioedema [see Contraindications (4) ]. Avoid use of sacubitril and valsartan with an ARB, because sacubitril and valsartan contains the angiotensin II receptor blocker valsartan. The concomitant use of sacubitril and valsartan with aliskiren is contraindicated in patients with diabetes [see Contraindications (4) ] . 7.2 Potassium-Sparing Diuretics As with other drugs that block angiotensin II or its effects, concomitant use of potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, triamterene, amiloride), potassium supplements, or salt substitutes containing potassium may lead to increases in serum potassium [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. 7.3 Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, concomitant use of NSAIDs, including COX-2 inhibitors, with sacubitril and valsartan may result in worsening of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use with sacubitril and valsartan.

=== ZOLEDRONIC ACID ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Zoledronic acid injection is a bisphosphonate indicated for the treatment of: Hypercalcemia of malignancy. (1.1) Patients with multiple myeloma and patients with documented bone metastases from solid tumors, in conjunction with standard antineoplastic therapy. Prostate cancer should have progressed after treatment with at least one hormonal therapy. (1.2) Limitations of Use : The safety and efficacy of zoledronic acid injection has not been established for use in hyperparathyroidism or non-tumor-related hypercalcemia. 1.1 Hypercalcemia of Malignancy Zoledronic acid injection is indicated for the treatment of hypercalcemia of malignancy defined as an albumin-corrected calcium (cCa) of greater than or equal to 12 mg/dL [3.0 mmol/L] using the formula: cCa in mg/dL=Ca in mg/dL + 0.8 ( 4.0 g/dL - patient albumin [g/dL]). 1.2 Multiple Myeloma and Bone Metastases of Solid Tumors Zoledronic acid injection is indicated for the treatment of patients with multiple myeloma and patients with documented bone metastases from solid tumors, in conjunction with standard antineoplastic therapy. Limitations of Use The safety and efficacy of zoledronic acid injection in the treatment of hypercalcemia associated with hyperparathyroidism or with other non–tumor-related conditions have not been established. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Zoledronic Acid Injection is a bisphosphonate indicated for: Treatment and prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis ( 1.1 , 1.2 ) Treatment to increase bone mass in men with osteoporosis ( 1.3 ) Treatment and prevention of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis ( 1.4 ) Treatment of Paget's disease of bone in men and women ( 1.5 ) Limitations of Use Optimal duration of use has not been determined. For patients at low-risk for fracture, consider drug discontinuation after 3 to 5 years of use ( 1.6 ) 1.1 Treatment of Osteoporosis in Postmenopausal Women Zoledronic Acid Injection is indicated for treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women. In postmenopausal women with osteoporosis, diagnosed by bone mineral density (BMD) or prevalent vertebral fracture, Zoledronic Acid Injection reduces the incidence of fractures (hip, vertebral and non-vertebral osteoporosis-related fractures). In patients at high risk of fracture, defined as a recent low-trauma hip fracture, zoledronic acid injection reduces the incidence of new clinical fractures [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. 1.2 Prevention of Osteoporosis in Postmenopausal Women Zoledronic Acid Injection is indicated for prevention of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. 1.3 Osteoporosis in Men Zoledronic Acid Injection is indicated for treatment to increase bone mass in men with osteoporosis [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )]. 1.4 Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis Zoledronic Acid Injection is indicated for the treatment and prevention of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis in men and women who are either initiating or continuing systemic glucocorticoids in a daily dosage equivalent to 7.5 mg or greater of prednisone and who are expected to remain on glucocorticoids for at least 12 months [see Clinical Studies ( 14.4 )]. 1.5 Paget's Disease of Bone Zoledronic Acid Injection is indicated for treatment of Paget's disease of bone in men and women. Treatment is indicated in patients with Paget's disease of bone with elevations in serum alkaline phosphatase of two times or higher than the upper limit of the age-specific normal reference range, or those who are symptomatic, or those at risk for complications from their disease [see Clinical Studies ( 14.5 )]. 1.6 Important Limitations of Use The safety and effectiveness of Zoledronic Acid Injection for the treatment of osteoporosis is based on clinical data of three years duration. The optimal duration of use has not been determined. All patients on bisphosphonate therapy should have the need for continued therapy re-evaluated on a periodic basis. Patients at low-risk for fracture should be considered for drug discontinuation after 3 to 5 years of use. Patients who discontinue therapy should have their risk for fracture re-evaluated periodically. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Zoledronic acid injection is a bisphosphonate indicated for: •Treatment and prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis (1.1, 1.2) •Treatment to increase bone mass in men with osteoporosis (1.3) •Treatment and prevention of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis (1.4) •Treatment of Paget’s disease of bone in men and women (1.5) Limitations of Use Optimal duration of use has not been determined. For patients at low-risk for fracture, consider drug discontinuation after 3 to 5 years of use (1.6) 1.1 Treatment of Osteoporosis in Postmenopausal Women Zoledronic acid injection is indicated for treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women. In patients at high risk of fracture, defined as a recent low-trauma hip fracture, zoledronic acid injection reduces the incidence of new clinical fractures [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1.2 Prevention of Osteoporosis in Postmenopausal Women Zoledronic acid injection is indicated for prevention of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women [ see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1.3 Osteoporosis in Men Zoledronic acid injection is indicated for treatment to increase bone mass in men with osteoporosis [ see Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. 1.4 Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis Zoledronic acid injection is indicated for the treatment and prevention of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis in men and women who are either initiating or continuing systemic glucocorticoids in a daily dosage equivalent to 7.5 mg or greater of prednisone and who are expected to remain on glucocorticoids for at least 12 months [ see Clinical Studies (14.4) ]. Treatment is indicated in patients with Paget’s disease of bone with elevations in serum alkaline phosphatase of two times or higher than the upper limit of the age-specific normal reference range, or those who are symptomatic, or those at risk for complications from their disease [ see Clinical Studies (14.5) ]. ( 1.1 ) Patients with multiple myeloma and patients with documented bone metastases from solid tumors, in conjunction with standard antineoplastic therapy. ( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use: The safety and efficacy of zoledronic acid injection has not been established for use in hyperparathyroidism or non-tumor-related hypercalcemia. 1.1 Hypercalcemia of Malignancy Zoledronic acid injection is indicated for the treatment of hypercalcemia of malignancy defined as an albumin­-corrected calcium (cCa) of greater than or equal to 12 mg/dL [3.0 mmol/L] using the formula: cCa in mg/dL=Ca in mg/dL + 0.8 (4.0 g/dL - patient albumin [g/dL]). Limitations of Use The safety and efficacy of zoledronic acid injection in the treatment of hypercalcemia associated with hyperparathyroidism or with other non-tumor-related conditions have not been established. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Zoledronic Acid Injection is a bisphosphonate indicated for the treatment of: • Hypercalcemia of malignancy. (1.1) • Patients with multiple myeloma and patients with documented bone metastases from solid tumors, in conjunction with standard antineoplastic therapy. (1.2) Limitation of Use : The safety and efficacy of Zoledronic Acid Injection has not been established for use in hyperparathyroidism or non-tumor-related hypercalcemia. 1.1 Hypercalcemia of Malignancy Zoledronic Acid Injection is indicated for the treatment of hypercalcemia of malignancy defined as an albumin-corrected calcium (cCa) of greater than or equal to 12 mg/dL [3.0 mmol/L] using the formula: cCa in mg/dL =Ca in mg/dL + 0.8 ( 4.0 g/dL – patient albumin [g/dL]). Limitation of Use The safety and efficacy of Zoledronic Acid Injection in the treatment of hypercalcemia associated with hyperparathyroidism or with other non-tumor-related conditions have not been established. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Zoledronic acid injection is a bisphosphonate indicated for: • Treatment and prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis ( 1.1 , 1.2 ) • Treatment to increase bone mass in men with osteoporosis ( 1.3 ) • Treatment and prevention of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis ( 1.4 ) • Treatment of Paget’s disease of bone in men and women ( 1.5 ) Limitations of Use Optimal duration of use has not been determined. In postmenopausal women with osteoporosis, diagnosed by bone mineral density (BMD) or prevalent vertebral fracture, zoledronic acid injection reduces the incidence of fractures (hip, vertebral, and non-vertebral osteoporosis-related fractures). In patients at high risk of fracture, defined as a recent low-trauma hip fracture, zoledronic acid injection reduces the incidence of new clinical fractures [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . 1.2 Prevention of Osteoporosis in Postmenopausal Women Zoledronic acid injection is indicated for prevention of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . 1.3 Osteoporosis in Men Zoledronic acid injection is indicated for treatment to increase bone mass in men with osteoporosis [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . 1.4 Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis Zoledronic acid injection is indicated for the treatment and prevention of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis in men and women who are either initiating or continuing systemic glucocorticoids in a daily dosage equivalent to 7.5 mg or greater of prednisone and who are expected to remain on glucocorticoids for at least 12 months [see Clinical Studies (14.4) ] . 1.5 Paget’s Disease of Bone Zoledronic acid injection is indicated for treatment of Paget’s disease of bone in men and women. Treatment is indicated in patients with Paget’s disease of bone with elevations in serum alkaline phosphatase of two times or higher than the upper limit of the age-specific normal reference range, or those who are symptomatic, or those at risk for complications from their disease [see Clinical Studies (14.5) ] . All patients on bisphosphonate therapy should have the need for continued therapy reevaluated on a periodic basis. Patients who discontinue therapy should have their risk for fracture reevaluated periodically. ( 1.1 ) • Patients with multiple myeloma and patients with documented bone metastases from solid tumors, in conjunction with standard antineoplastic therapy. ( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use : The safety and efficacy of Zoledronic Acid Injection has not been established for use in hyperparathyroidism or non-tumor-related hypercalcemia. 1.1 Hypercalcemia of Malignancy Zoledronic Acid Injection is indicated for the treatment of hypercalcemia of malignancy defined as an albumin-corrected calcium (cCa) of greater than or equal to 12 mg/dL [3.0 mmol/L] using the formula: cCa in mg/dL=Ca in mg/dL + 0.8 (4.0 g/dL – patient albumin [g/dL]). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Zoledronic acid injection is a bisphosphonate indicated for the treatment of: • Hypercalcemia of malignancy ( 1.1 ) • Patients with multiple myeloma and patients with documented bone metastases from solid tumors, in conjunction with standard antineoplastic therapy. 1.1 Hypercalcemia of Malignancy Zoledronic acid injection is indicated for the treatment of hypercalcemia of malignancy defined as an albumin-corrected calcium (cCa) of greater than or equal to 12 mg/dL [3 mmol/L] using the formula: cCa in mg/dL=Ca in mg/dL + 0.8 (4 g/dL – patient albumin [g/dL]). Limitations of Use The safety and efficacy of zoledronic acid injection in the treatment of hypercalcemia associated with hyperparathyroidism or with other nontumor-related conditions have not been established. Prostate cancer should have progressed after treatment with at least one hormonal therapy.( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use : The safety and efficacy of zoledronic acid injection has not been established for use in hyperparathyroidism or non-tumor-related hypercalcemia. 1.1 Hypercalcemia of Malignancy Zoledronic Acid Injection is indicated for the treatment of hypercalcemia of malignancy defined as an albumin-corrected calcium (cCa) of greater than or equal to 12 mg/dL [3.0 mmol/L] using the formula: cCa in mg/dL = Ca in mg/dL + 0.8 (4.0 g/dL - patient albumin [g/dL]).
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypercalcemia of malignancy ( 2.1 ) 4 mg as a single-use intravenous infusion over no less than 15 minutes. 4 mg as retreatment after a minimum of 7 days. Multiple myeloma and bone metastasis from solid tumors. ( 2.2 ) 4 mg as a single-use intravenous infusion over no less than 15 minutes every 3 to 4 weeks for patients with creatinine clearance of greater than 60 mL/min. Reduce the dose for patients with renal impairment. Coadminister oral calcium supplements of 500 mg and a multiple vitamin containing 400 international units of vitamin D daily. Administer through a separate vented infusion line and do not allow to come in contact with any calcium or divalent cation-containing solutions. ( 2.3 ) Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. 2.1 Hypercalcemia of Malignancy The maximum recommended dose of zoledronic acid injection in hypercalcemia of malignancy (albumin-corrected serum calcium greater than or equal to 12 mg/dL [3.0 mmol/L]) is 4 mg. The 4 mg dose must be given as a single-dose intravenous infusion over no less than 15 minutes . Patients who receive zoledronic acid injection should have serum creatinine assessed prior to each treatment. Dose adjustments of zoledronic acid injection are not necessary in treating patients for hypercalcemia of malignancy presenting with mild-to-moderate renal impairment prior to initiation of therapy (serum creatinine less than 400 µmol/L or less than 4.5 mg/dL). Patients should be adequately rehydrated prior to administration of zoledronic acid injection [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Consideration should be given to the severity of, as well as the symptoms of, tumor-induced hypercalcemia when considering use of zoledronic acid injection. Vigorous saline hydration, an integral part of hypercalcemia therapy, should be initiated promptly and an attempt should be made to restore the urine output to about 2 L/day throughout treatment. Mild or asymptomatic hypercalcemia may be treated with conservative measures (i.e., saline hydration, with or without loop diuretics). Patients should be hydrated adequately throughout the treatment, but overhydration, especially in those patients who have cardiac failure, must be avoided. Diuretic therapy should not be employed prior to correction of hypovolemia. Retreatment with zoledronic acid injection 4 mg may be considered if serum calcium does not return to normal or remain normal after initial treatment. It is recommended that a minimum of 7 days elapse before retreatment, to allow for full response to the initial dose. Renal function must be carefully monitored in all patients receiving zoledronic acid injection and serum creatinine must be assessed prior to retreatment with zoledronic acid injection [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 2.2 Multiple Myeloma and Bone Metastases of Solid Tumors The recommended dose of zoledronic acid injection in patients with multiple myeloma and metastatic bone lesions from solid tumors for patients with creatinine clearance (CrCl) greater than 60 mL/min is 4 mg infused over no less than 15 minutes every 3 to 4 weeks. The optimal duration of therapy is not known. Upon treatment initiation, the recommended zoledronic acid injection doses for patients with reduced renal function (mild and moderate renal impairment) are listed in Table 1. These doses are calculated to achieve the same area under the curve (AUC) as that achieved in patients with creatinine clearance of 75 mL/min. CrCl is calculated using the Cockcroft-Gault formula [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Table 1: Reduced Doses for Patients with Baseline CrCl Less Than or Equal to 60 mL/min * Doses calculated assuming target AUC of 0.66 (mg•hr/L) (CrCl=75 mL/min) Baseline Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Zoledronic Acid Injection Recommended Dose (mg) * greater than 60 4 50 to 60 3.5 40 to 49 3.3 30 to 39 3 During treatment, serum creatinine should be measured before each zoledronic acid injection dose and treatment should be withheld for renal deterioration. In the clinical studies, renal deterioration was defined as follows: For patients with normal baseline creatinine, increase of 0.5 mg/dL For patients with abnormal baseline creatinine, increase of 1.0 mg/dL In the clinical studies, zoledronic acid injection treatment was resumed only when the creatinine returned to within 10% of the baseline value. Zoledronic acid injection should be reinitiated at the same dose as that prior to treatment interruption. Patients should also be administered an oral calcium supplement of 500 mg and a multiple vitamin containing 400 international units of vitamin D daily. 2.3 Preparation of Solution Zoledronic acid injection must not be mixed with calcium or other divalent cation-containing infusion solutions, such as Lactated Ringer's solution, and should be administered as a single intravenous solution in a line separate from all other drugs. 4 mg/5mL Single-Dose Vial for Dilution Prior to Intravenous Infusion Zoledronic acid injection 4 mg/5 mL vial for dilution prior to intravenous infusion contains an overfill to allow withdrawal of 5 mL (equivalent to 4 mg zoledronic acid). Zoledronic acid injection (4 mg/5 mL) should immediately be diluted in 100 mL of sterile 0.9% Sodium Chloride, USP, or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, following proper aseptic technique, and administered to the patient by intravenous infusion. Do not store undiluted zoledronic acid injection (4 mg/5 mL) in a syringe, to avoid inadvertent injection. To prepare reduced doses for patients with baseline CrCl less than or equal to 60 mL/min, withdraw the specified volume of the zoledronic acid injection (4 mg/5 mL) from the vial for the dose required (see Table 3). Table 3: Preparation of Reduced Doses - Zoledronic Acid Injection 4 mg/5 mL Single-Dose Vial for Dilution Remove and use Zoledronic Acid Injection Volume (mL) Dose (mg) 4.4 3.5 4.1 3.3 3.8 3.0 The withdrawn zoledronic acid injection (4 mg/5 mL) solution must be diluted in 100 mL of sterile 0.9% Sodium Chloride, USP, or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP. If not used immediately after dilution with infusion media, for microbiological integrity, the solution should be refrigerated at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F). The refrigerated solution should then be equilibrated to room temperature prior to administration. The total time between dilution, storage in the refrigerator, and end of administration must not exceed 24 hours. 2.4 Method of Administration Due to the risk of clinically significant deterioration in renal function, which may progress to renal failure, single doses of zoledronic acid injection should not exceed 4 mg and the duration of infusion should be no less than 15 minutes [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. In the trials and in postmarketing experience, renal deterioration, progression to renal failure and dialysis, have occurred in patients, including those treated with the approved dose of 4 mg infused over 15 minutes. There have been instances of this occurring after the initial zoledronic acid injection dose. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Infusion given intravenously over no less than 15 minutes: Treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis ( 2.2 ); treatment to increase bone mass in men with osteoporosis ( 2.4 ): treatment and prevention of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis ( 2.5 ): 5 mg once a year Prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis: 5 mg once every 2 years ( 2.3 ) Treatment of Paget's disease of bone: a single 5 mg infusion. Patients should receive 1500 mg elemental calcium and 800 international units vitamin D daily ( 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Zoledronic Acid Injection must be administered as an intravenous infusion over no less than 15 minutes. Patients must be appropriately hydrated prior to administration of Zoledronic Acid Injection [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Intravenous infusion should be followed by a 10 mL normal saline flush of the intravenous line. Administration of acetaminophen following Zoledronic Acid Injection administration may reduce the incidence of acute-phase reaction symptoms. Caution: After removing the overwrap check for minute leaks by squeezing the inner bag firmly. If leaks are found, discard container as sterility may be compromised. Use only if solution is clear and the container is undamaged. Preparation for Administration: Close flow control clamp of administration set. Remove cover from port at bottom of container. Insert piercing pin of administration set into port with a twisting motion until the pin is firmly seated. NOTE: See full directions on administration set carton. Suspend container from hanger. Squeeze and release drip chamber to establish proper fluid level in chamber during infusion of Zoledronic Acid Injection. Open flow control clamp to expel air from set. Close clamp. Regulate rate of administration with flow control clamp. 2.2 Treatment of Osteoporosis in Postmenopausal Women The recommended regimen is a 5 mg infusion once a year given intravenously over no less than 15 minutes. 2.3 Prevention of Osteoporosis in Postmenopausal Women The recommended regimen is a 5 mg infusion given once every 2 years intravenously over no less than 15 minutes. 2.4 Osteoporosis in Men The recommended regimen is a 5 mg infusion once a year given intravenously over no less than 15 minutes. 2.5 Treatment and Prevention of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis The recommended regimen is a 5 mg infusion once a year given intravenously over no less than 15 minutes. 2.6 Treatment of Paget's Disease of Bone The recommended dose is a 5 mg infusion. The infusion time must not be less than 15 minutes given over a constant infusion rate. Re-treatment of Paget's Disease After a single treatment with Zoledronic Acid Injection in Paget's disease an extended remission period is observed. Specific re-treatment data are not available. However, re-treatment with Zoledronic Acid Injection may be considered in patients who have relapsed, based on increases in serum alkaline phosphatase, or in those patients who failed to achieve normalization of their serum alkaline phosphatase, or in those patients with symptoms, as dictated by medical practice. 2.7 Laboratory Testing and Oral Examination Prior to Administration Prior to administration of each dose of Zoledronic Acid Injection, obtain a serum creatinine and creatinine clearance should be calculated based on actual body weight using Cockcroft-Gault formula before each Zoledronic Acid Injection dose. Zoledronic Acid Injection is contraindicated in patients with creatinine clearance less than 35 mL/min and in those with evidence of acute renal impairment. A 5 mg dose of Zoledronic Acid Injection administered intravenously is recommended for patients with creatinine clearance greater than or equal to 35 mL/min. There are no safety or efficacy data to support the adjustment of the Zoledronic Acid Injection dose based on baseline renal function. Therefore, no dose adjustment is required in patients with CrCl greater than or equal to 35 mL/min [see Contraindications ( 4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. A routine oral examination should be performed by the prescriber prior to initiation of Zoledronic Acid Injection treatment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. 2.8 Calcium and Vitamin D Supplementation Instruct patients being treated for Paget's disease of bone on the importance of calcium and vitamin D supplementation in maintaining serum calcium levels, and on the symptoms of hypocalcemia. All patients should take 1500 mg elemental calcium daily in divided doses (750 mg two times a day, or 500 mg three times a day) and 800 international units vitamin D daily, particularly in the 2 weeks following Zoledronic Acid Injection administration [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Instruct patients being treated for osteoporosis to take supplemental calcium and vitamin D if their dietary intake is inadequate. An average of at least 1200 mg calcium and 800 to 1000 international units vitamin D daily is recommended. 2.9 Method of Administration The Zoledronic Acid Injection infusion time must not be less than 15 minutes given over a constant infusion rate. The intravenous infusion should be followed by a 10 mL normal saline flush of the intravenous line. Zoledronic Acid Injection solution for infusion must not be allowed to come in contact with any calcium or other divalent cation-containing solutions, and should be administered as a single intravenous solution through a separate infusion line. If refrigerated, allow the refrigerated solution to reach room temperature before administration. After opening, the solution is stable for 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) [see How Supplied/Storage and Handling ( 16 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Infusion given intravenously over no less than 15 minutes: Treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis (2.2); treatment to increase bone mass in men with osteoporosis (2.4): treatment and prevention of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis (2.5): 5 mg once a year Prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis: 5 mg once every 2 years (2.3) Treatment of Paget’s disease of bone: a single 5 mg infusion. Patients should receive 1500 mg elemental calcium and 800 international units vitamin D daily (2.6) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Zoledronic acid injection must be administered as an intravenous infusion over no less than 15 minutes. • Patients must be appropriately hydrated prior to administration of zoledronic acid injection [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. • Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. • Intravenous infusion should be followed by a 10 mL normal saline flush of the intravenous line. • Administration of acetaminophen following zoledronic acid injection administration may reduce the incidence of acute-phase reaction symptoms. Re-treatment of Paget's Disease After a single treatment with zoledronic acid injection in Paget’s disease an extended remission period is observed. 2.7 Laboratory Testing and Oral Examination Prior to Administration • Prior to administration of each dose of zoledronic acid injection, obtain a serum creatinine and creatinine clearance should be calculated based on actual body weight using Cockcroft-Gault formula before each zoledronic acid injection dose. Therefore, no dose adjustment is required in patients with CrCl greater than or equal to 35 mL/min [ see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. • A routine oral examination should be performed by the prescriber prior to initiation of zoledronic acid injection treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. 2.8 Calcium and Vitamin D Supplementation • Instruct patients being treated for Paget’s disease of bone on the importance of calcium and vitamin D supplementation in maintaining serum calcium levels, and on the symptoms of hypocalcemia. All patients should take 1500 mg elemental calcium daily in divided doses (750 mg two times a day, or 500 mg three times a day) and 800 international units vitamin D daily, particularly in the 2 weeks following zoledronic acid injection administration [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. • Instruct patients being treated for osteoporosis to take supplemental calcium and vitamin D if their dietary intake is inadequate. An average of at least 1200 mg calcium and 800-1000 international units vitamin D daily is recommended. Zoledronic acid injection solution for infusion must not be allowed to come in contact with any calcium or other divalent cation-containing solutions, and should be administered as a single intravenous solution through a separate vented infusion line. After opening, the solution is stable for 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F) [ see How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit . Hypercalcemia of malignancy ( 2.1 ) 4 mg as a single-use intravenous infusion over no less than 15 minutes. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Hypercalcemia of Malignancy The maximum recommended dose of zoledronic acid injection in hypercalcemia of malignancy (albumin-corrected serum calcium greater than or equal to 12 mg/dL [3.0 mmol/L]) is 4 mg. Patients should be adequately rehydrated prior to administration of zoledronic acid injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Retreatment with zoledronic acid injection 4 mg, may be considered if serum calcium does not return to normal or remain normal after initial treatment. Renal function must be carefully monitored in all patients receiving zoledronic acid injection and serum creatinine must be assessed prior to retreatment with zoledronic acid injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 2.2. Multiple Myeloma and Bone Metastases of Solid Tumors The recommended dose of zoledronic acid injection in patients with multiple myeloma and metastatic bone lesions from solid tumors for patients with creatinine clearance (CrCl) greater than 60 mL/min is 4 mg infused over no less than 15 minutes every 3 to 4 weeks. CrCl is calculated using the Cockcroft-Gault formula [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Table 1: Reduced Doses for Patients With Baseline CrCl Less Than or Equal to 60 mL/min Baseline Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Zoledronic Acid Injection Recommended Dose(mg)* greater than 60 4 50 to 60 3.5 40 to 49 3.3 30 to 39 3 *Doses calculated assuming target AUC of 0.66(mg•hr/L) (CrCl = 75 mL/min) During treatment, serum creatinine should be measured before each zoledronic acid injection dose and treatment should be withheld for renal deterioration. 2.3. Preparation of Solution Zoledronic acid injection must not be mixed with calcium or other divalent cation-containing infusion solutions, such as Lactated Ringer’s solution, and should be administered as a single intravenous solution in a line separate from all other drugs. 4 mg/5 mL Single-Dose Vial for Dilution Prior to Intravenous Infusion Zoledronic acid injection 4 mg/5mL vial for dilution prior to intravenous infusion contains an overfill to allow withdrawal of 5 mL (equivalent to 4 mg zoledronic acid). Zoledronic acid injection, 4 mg/5mL should immediately be diluted in 100 mL of sterile 0.9% Sodium Chloride, USP, or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP, following proper aseptic technique, and administered to the patient by intravenous infusion. Do not store undiluted zoledronic acid injection, 4 mg/5mL in a syringe, to avoid inadvertent injection. To prepare reduced doses for patients with baseline CrCl less than or equal to 60 mL/min, withdraw the specified volume of the zoledronic acid injection, 4 mg/5mL from the vial for the dose required (see Table 3). Table 3: Preparation of Reduced Doses Zoledronic Acid Injection 4mg/5mL Single-Dose Vial for Dilution Remove and use Zoledronic Acid Injection Volume (mL) Dose (mg) 4.4 3.5 4.1 3.3 3.8 3.0 The withdrawn zoledronic acid injection,4 mg/5mL solution must be diluted in 100 mL of sterile 0.9% Sodium Chloride, USP, or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP. 2.4. Method of Administration Due to the risk of clinically significant deterioration in renal function, which may progress to renal failure, single doses of zoledronic acid injection should not exceed 4 mg and the duration of infusion should be no less than 15 minutes [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Hypercalcemia of malignancy (2.1) • 4 mg as a single-use intravenous infusion over no less than 15 minutes. • 4 mg as retreatment after a minimum of 7 days. (2.2) • 4 mg as a single-use intravenous infusion over no less than 15 minutes every 3 to 4 weeks for patients with creatinine clearance of greater than 60 mL/min. • Reduce the dose for patients with renal impairment. • Coadminister oral calcium supplements of 500 mg and a multiple vitamin containing 400 International units of vitamin D daily. (2.3) 2.1 Hypercalcemia of Malignancy The maximum recommended dose of Zoledronic Acid Injection in hypercalcemia of malignancy (albumin-corrected serum calcium greater than or equal to 12 mg/dL [3.0 mmol/L]) is 4 mg. Dose adjustments of Zoledronic Acid Injection are not necessary in treating patients for hypercalcemia of malignancy presenting with mild-to-moderate renal impairment prior to initiation of therapy (serum creatinine less than 400 μmol/L or less than 4.5 mg/dL). Patients should be adequately rehydrated prior to administration of Zoledronic Acid Injection [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . CrCl is calculated using the Cockcroft-Gault formula [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . Table 1: Reduced Doses for Patients with Baseline CrCl Less than or Equal to 60 mL/min Baseline Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Zoledronic Acid Injection Recommended Dose (mg)* greater than 60 4 50 to 60 3.5 40 to 49 3.3 30 to 39 3 *Doses calculated assuming target AUC of 0.66(mg•hr/L) (CrCl = 75 mL/min) During treatment, serum creatinine should be measured before each Zoledronic Acid Injection dose and treatment should be withheld for renal deterioration. 2.3 Preparation of Solution Zoledronic Acid Injection must not be mixed with calcium or other divalent cation-containing infusion solutions, such as Lactated Ringer’s solution, and should be administered as a single intravenous solution in a line separate from all other drugs. 4 mg/100 mL Single-Dose Ready-to-Use Bottle Bottles of Zoledronic Acid Injection ready-to-use solution for infusion contain overfill allowing for the administration of 100 mL of solution (equivalent to 4 mg zoledronic acid). This solution is ready-to-use and may be administered directly to the patient without further preparation. For single use only. To prepare reduced doses for patients with baseline CrCl less than or equal to 60 mL/min, withdraw the specified volume of the Zoledronic Acid Injection solution from the bottle (see Table 2) and replace with an equal volume of sterile 0.9% Sodium Chloride, USP, or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP. Administer the newly-prepared dose-adjusted solution to the patient by infusion. Follow proper aseptic technique. Properly discard previously withdrawn volume of ready-to-use solution - do not store or reuse. Table 2: Preparation of Reduced Doses – Zoledronic Acid Injection Ready-to-Use Bottle Remove and D iscard the Following Zoledronic Acid Injection R eady-to-use Solution (mL) Replace with the Following Volume of Sterile 0.9% Sodium Chloride, USP or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP (mL) Dose (mg) 12.0 12.0 3.5 18.0 18.0 3.3 25.0 25.0 3.0 If not used immediately after dilution with infusion media, for microbiological integrity, the solution should be refrigerated at 2°C to 8°C (36°F to 46°F). 2.4 Method of Administration Due to the risk of clinically significant deterioration in renal function, which may progress to renal failure, single doses of Zoledronic Acid Injection should not exceed 4 mg and the duration of infusion should be no less than 15 minutes [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Infusion given intravenously over no less than 15 minutes: • Treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis ( 2.2 ); treatment to increase bone mass in men with osteoporosis ( 2.4 ): treatment and prevention of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis ( 2.5 ): 5 mg once a year • Prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis: 5 mg once every 2 years ( 2.3 ) • Treatment of Paget’s disease of bone: a single 5 mg infusion. • Patients must be appropriately hydrated prior to administration of zoledronic acid injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . 2.6 Treatment of Paget’s Disease of Bone The recommended dose is a 5 mg infusion. Re-treatment of Paget’s Disease After a single treatment with zoledronic acid injection in Paget’s disease an extended remission period is observed. Therefore, no dose adjustment is required in patients with creatinine clearance greater than or equal to 35 mL/min [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . • A routine oral examination should be performed by the prescriber prior to initiation of zoledronic acid injection treatment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . All patients should take 1500 mg elemental calcium daily in divided doses (750 mg two times a day, or 500 mg three times a day) and 800 international units vitamin D daily, particularly in the 2 weeks following zoledronic acid injection administration [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . After opening, the solution is stable for 24 hours at 2° to 8°C (36° to 46°F) [see How Supplied/Storage and Handling (16) ] . Hypercalcemia of malignancy ( 2.1 ) • 4 mg as a single-use intravenous infusion over no less than 15 minutes. ( 2.2 ) • 4 mg as a single-use intravenous infusion over no less than 15 minutes every 3 to 4 weeks for patients with creatinine clearance of greater than 60 mL/min. Patients should be adequately rehydrated prior to administration of Zoledronic Acid Injection [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . CrCl is calculated using the Cockcroft-Gault formula [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Table 1: Reduced Doses for Patients with Baseline CrCl Less than or Equal to 60 mL/min Baseline Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Zoledronic Acid Injection Recommended Dose (mg) * greater than 60 4 50 to 60 3.5 40 to 49 3.3 30 to 39 3 *Doses calculated assuming target AUC of 0.66 (mg•hr/L) (CrCl=75 mL/min) During treatment, serum creatinine should be measured before each Zoledronic Acid Injection dose and treatment should be withheld for renal deterioration. 4 mg/5 mL Single-Dose Vial for Dilution Prior to Intravenous Infusion Zoledronic Acid Injection 4 mg/5 mL vial for dilution prior to intravenous infusion contains an overfill to allow withdrawal of 5 mL (equivalent to 4 mg zoledronic acid). Table 3: Preparation of Reduced Doses – Zoledronic Acid Injection 4 mg/5 mL Single-Dose Vial for Dilution Remove and use Zoledronic acid Injection Volume (mL) Dose (mg) 4.4 3.5 4.1 3.3 3.8 3.0 The withdrawn Zoledronic Acid Injection (4 mg/5 mL) solution must be diluted in 100 mL of sterile 0.9% Sodium Chloride, USP, or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP. 2.4 Method of Administration Due to the risk of clinically significant deterioration in renal function, which may progress to renal failure, single doses of Zoledronic Acid Injection should not exceed 4 mg and the duration of infusion should be no less than 15 minutes [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Hypercalcemia of malignancy ( 2.1 ) • 4 mg as a single-dose intravenous infusion over no less than 15 minutes. Multiple myeloma and bone metastasis from solid tumors ( 2.2 ) • 4 mg as a single-dose intravenous infusion over no less than 15 minutes every 3 to 4 weeks for patients with creatinine clearance of greater than 60 mL/min. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Hypercalcemia of Malignancy The maximum recommended dose of zoledronic acid injection in hypercalcemia of malignancy (albumin-corrected serum calcium greater than or equal to 12 mg/dL [3 mmol/L]) is 4 mg. Patients should be adequately rehydrated prior to administration of zoledronic acid injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Renal function must be carefully monitored in all patients receiving zoledronic acid injection and serum creatinine must be assessed prior to retreatment with zoledronic acid injection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Table 1: Reduced Doses for Patients With Baseline CrCl Less Than or Equal to 60 mL/min Baseline Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Zoledronic Acid Injection Recommended Dose (mg) *Doses calculated assuming target AUC of 0.66 (mg•hr/L) (CrCl=75 mL/min) greater than 60 4 50 to 60 3.5 40 to 49 3.3 30 to 39 3 During treatment, serum creatinine should be measured before each zoledronic acid injection dose and treatment should be withheld for renal deterioration. In the clinical studies, renal deterioration was defined as follows: For patients with normal baseline creatinine, increase of 0.5 mg/dL For patients with abnormal baseline creatinine, increase of 1 mg/dL In the clinical studies, zoledronic acid injection treatment was resumed only when the creatinine returned to within 10% of the baseline value. Table 3: Preparation of Reduced Doses - Zoledronic Acid Injection 4 mg/5 mL Single-Dose Vial for Dilution Remove and Use Zoledronic Acid Injection Volume (mL) Dose (mg) 4.4 3.5 4.1 3.3 3.8 3 The withdrawn Zoledronic Acid Injection (4 mg/5 mL) solution must be diluted in 100 mL of sterile 0.9% Sodium Chloride, USP, or 5% Dextrose Injection, USP. 2.4 Method of Administration Due to the risk of clinically significant deterioration in renal function, which may progress to renal failure, single doses of zoledronic acid injection should not exceed 4 mg and the duration of infusion should be no less than 15 minutes [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . ( 2.2 ) 4 mg as a single-use intravenous infusion over no less than 15 minutes every 3-4 weeks for patients with creatinine clearance of greater than 60 mL/min. The 4-mg dose must be given as a single-dose intravenous infusion over no less than 15 minutes . Table 1: Reduced Doses for Patients With Baseline CrCl Less Than or Equal to 60 mL/min Baseline Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Zoledronic acid Injection Recommended Dose (mg)* greater than 60 4 50 – 60 3.5 40 – 49 3.3 30 – 39 3 * Doses calculated assuming target AUC of 0.66(mg•hr/L) (CrCl = 75 mL/min). During treatment, serum creatinine should be measured before each zoledronic acid injection dose and treatment should be withheld for renal deterioration. If not used immediately after dilution with infusion media, for microbiological integrity, the solution should be refrigerated at 2°C to 8°C (36°F-46°F).
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any component of zoledronic acid injection (4) Hypersensitivity to Zoledronic Acid or Any Components of Zoledronic Acid Injection Hypersensitivity reactions including rare cases of urticaria and angioedema, and very rare cases of anaphylactic reaction/shock have been reported [ see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Zoledronic Acid Injection is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions: Hypocalcemia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Creatinine clearance less than 35 mL/min and in those with evidence of acute renal impairment due to an increased risk of renal failure [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Known hypersensitivity to zoledronic acid or any components of Zoledronic Acid Injection. Hypersensitivity reactions including urticaria, angioedema, and anaphylactic reaction/shock have been reported [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )]. Hypocalcemia ( 4 ) Patients with creatinine clearance less than 35 mL/min and in those with evidence of acute renal impairment ( 4 , 5.3 ) Hypersensitivity to any component of Zoledronic Acid Injection ( 4 , 6.2 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Zoledronic acid injection is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions: • Hypocalcemia [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] • Creatinine clearance less than 35 mL/min and in those with evidence of acute renal impairment due to an increased risk of renal failure [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. • Known hypersensitivity to zoledronic acid or any components of zoledronic acid injection. Hypersensitivity reactions including urticaria, angioedema, and anaphylactic reaction/shock have been reported [ see Post- Marketing Experience (6.2) ]. Hypocalcemia (4) Patients with creatinine clearance less than 35 mL/min and in those with evidence of acute renal impairment (4, 5.3) Hypersensitivity to any component of zoledronic acid injection (4, 6.2) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hy persensitivity to Zoledronic Acid or Any Components of Zoledronic Acid Injection Hypersensitivity reactions including rare cases of urticaria and angioedema, and very rare cases of anaphylactic reaction/shock have been reported [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ) ]. Hypersensitivity to any component of zoledronic acid injection . ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to Zoledronic Acid or Any Components of Zoledronic Acid Injection Hypersensitivity reactions including rare cases of urticaria and angioedema, and very rare cases of anaphylactic reaction/shock have been reported [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)] . Hypersensitivity to any component of Zoledronic Acid Injection (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Zoledronic acid injection is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions: • Hypocalcemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] • Creatinine clearance less than 35 mL/min and in those with evidence of acute renal impairment due to an increased risk of renal failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Hypersensitivity reactions, including urticaria, angioedema, and anaphylactic reaction/shock have been reported [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . • Hypocalcemia ( 4 ) • Patients with creatinine clearance less than 35 mL/min and in those with evidence of acute renal impairment ( 4 , 5.3 ) • Hypersensitivity to any component of zoledronic acid injection ( 4 , 6.2 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to Zoledronic Acid or Any Components of Zoledronic Acid Injection Hypersensitivity reactions including rare cases of urticaria and angioedema, and very rare cases of anaphylactic reaction/shock have been reported [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . Hypersensitivity to any component of Zoledronic Acid Injection ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any component of zoledronic acid injection ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to Zoledronic Acid or Any Components of Zoledronic Acid Injection Hypersensitivity reactions including rare cases of urticaria and angioedema, and very rare cases of anaphylactic reaction/shock have been reported [ see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ].
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Aminoglycosides: May have an additive effect to lower serum calcium for prolonged periods. ( 7.1 ) Loop Diuretics: Concomitant use with zoledronic acid injection may increase risk of hypocalcemia. ( 7.2 ) Nephrotoxic Drugs: Use with caution. ( 7.3 ) In vitro studies indicate that the plasma protein binding of zoledronic acid is low, with the unbound fraction ranging from 60% to 77%. In vitro studies also indicate that zoledronic acid does not inhibit microsomal CYP450 enzymes. In vivo studies showed that zoledronic acid is not metabolized, and is excreted into the urine as the intact drug. 7.1 Aminoglycosides and Calcitonin Caution is advised when bisphosphonates are administered with aminoglycosides or calcitonin, since these agents may have an additive effect to lower serum calcium level for prolonged periods. This effect has not been reported in zoledronic acid injection clinical trials. 7.2 Loop Diuretics Caution should also be exercised when zoledronic acid injection is used in combination with loop diuretics due to an increased risk of hypocalcemia. 7.3 Nephrotoxic Drugs Caution is indicated when zoledronic acid injection is used with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs. 7.4 Thalidomide No dose adjustment for zoledronic acid injection 4 mg is needed when coadministered with thalidomide. In a pharmacokinetic study of 24 patients with multiple myeloma, zoledronic acid injection 4 mg given as a 15 - minute infusion was administered either alone or with thalidomide (100 mg once daily on days 1 to 14 and 200 mg once daily on Days 15 to 28). Coadministration of thalidomide with zoledronic acid injection did not significantly change the pharmacokinetics of zoledronic acid or creatinine clearance. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No in vivo drug interaction studies have been performed for Zoledronic Acid Injection. In vitro and ex vivo studies showed low affinity of zoledronic acid for the cellular components of human blood. In vitro mean zoledronic acid protein binding in human plasma ranged from 28% at 200 ng/mL to 53% at 50 ng/mL. Aminoglycosides: May lower serum calcium for prolonged periods ( 7.1 ) Loop diuretics: May increase risk of hypocalcemia ( 7.2 ) Nephrotoxic drugs: Use with caution ( 7.3 ) Drugs primarily excreted by the kidney: Exposure may be increased with renal impairment. Monitor serum creatinine in patients at risk ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Aminoglycosides Caution is advised when bisphosphonates, including zoledronic acid, are administered with aminoglycosides, since these agents may have an additive effect to lower serum calcium level for prolonged periods. This effect has not been reported in zoledronic acid clinical trials. 7.3 Nephrotoxic Drugs Caution is indicated when Zoledronic Acid Injection is used with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. 7.4 Drugs Primarily Excreted by the Kidney Renal impairment has been observed following the administration of zoledronic acid in patients with pre-existing renal compromise or other risk factors [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . In patients with renal impairment, the exposure to concomitant medications that are primarily renally excreted (e.g., digoxin) may increase. Consider monitoring serum creatinine in patients at risk for renal impairment who are taking concomitant medications that are primarily excreted by the kidney. Aminoglycosides: May lower serum calcium for prolonged periods (7.1) Loop diuretics: May increase risk of hypocalcemia (7.2) Nephrotoxic drugs: Use with caution (7.3) Drugs primarily excreted by the kidney: Exposure may be increased with renal impairment. Monitor serum creatinine in patients at risk (7.4) 7.1 Aminoglycosides Caution is advised when bisphosphonates, including zoledronic acid, are administered with aminoglycosides, since these agents may have an additive effect to lower serum calcium level for prolonged periods. 7.4 Drugs Primarily Excreted by the Kidney Renal impairment has been observed following the administration of zoledronic acid in patients with pre-existing renal compromise or other risk factors [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS In vitro studies indicate that the plasma protein binding of zoledronic acid is low, with the unbound fraction ranging from 60% to 77%. Aminoglycosides: May have an additive effect to lower serum calcium for prolonged periods. ( 7.1) Loop Diuretics: Concomitant use with zoledronic acid injection may increase risk of hypocalcemia. ( 7.3) 7.1 Aminoglycosides and Calcitonin Caution is advised when bisphosphonates are administered with aminoglycosides or calcitonin, since these agents may have an additive effect to lower serum calcium level for prolonged periods. In a pharmacokinetic study of 24 patients with multiple myeloma, zoledronic acid injection 4 mg given as a 15-minute infusion was administered either alone or with thalidomide (100 mg once daily on days 1 to 14 and 200 mg once daily on Days 15 to 28). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS In vitro studies indicate that the plasma protein binding of zoledronic acid is low, with the unbound fraction ranging from 60% to77%. • Aminoglycosides: May have an additive effect to lower serum calcium for prolonged periods (7.1) • Loop Diuretics: Concomitant use with Zoledronic Acid Injection may increase risk of hypocalcemia (7.2) • Nephrotoxic Drugs: Use with caution (7.3) 7.1 Aminoglycosides and Calcitonin Caution is advised when bisphosphonates are administered with aminoglycosides or calcitonin, since these agents may have an additive effect to lower serum calcium level for prolonged periods. • Aminoglycosides: May lower serum calcium for prolonged periods ( 7.1 ) • Loop Diuretics: May increase risk of hypocalcemia ( 7.2 ) • Nephrotoxic Drugs: Use with caution ( 7.3 ) • Drugs Primarily Excreted by the Kidney: Exposure may be increased with renal impairment. 7.3 Nephrotoxic Drugs Caution is indicated when zoledronic acid injection is used with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs, such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 7.4 Drugs Primarily Excreted by the Kidney Renal impairment has been observed following the administration of zoledronic acid in patients with preexisting renal compromise or other risk factors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . • Aminoglycosides : May have an additive effect to lower serum calcium for prolonged periods ( 7.1 ) • Loop Diuretics : Concomitant use with Zoledronic Acid Injection may increase risk of hypocalcemia ( 7.2 ) • Nephrotoxic Drugs : Use with caution ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Aminoglycosides and Calcitonin Caution is advised when bisphosphonates are administered with aminoglycosides or calcitonin, since these agents may have an additive effect to lower serum calcium level for prolonged periods. • Aminoglycosides : May have an additive effect to lower serum calcium for prolonged periods ( 7.1 ) • Loop Diuretics : Concomitant use with zoledronic acid may increase risk of hypocalcemia ( 7.2 ) • Nephrotoxic Drugs : Use with caution ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Aminoglycosides and Calcitonin Caution is advised when bisphosphonates are administered with aminoglycosides or calcitonin, since these agents may have an additive effect to lower serum calcium level for prolonged periods. 7.2 Loop Diuretics Caution should also be exercised when zoledronic acid is used in combination with loop diuretics due to an increased risk of hypocalcemia. 7.3 Nephrotoxic Drugs Caution is indicated when zoledronic acid is used with other potentially nephrotoxic drugs. 7.4 Thalidomide No dose adjustment for zoledronic acid 4 mg is needed when coadministered with thalidomide. In a pharmacokinetic study of 24 patients with multiple myeloma, zoledronic acid 4 mg given as a 15-minute infusion was administered either alone or with thalidomide (100 mg once daily on days 1 to 14 and 200 mg once daily on Days 15 to 28). Coadministration of thalidomide with zoledronic acid did not significantly change the pharmacokinetics of zoledronic acid or creatinine clearance. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS In-vitro studies indicate that the plasma protein binding of zoledronic acid is low, with the unbound fraction ranging from 60%-77%. In-vitro studies also indicate that zoledronic acid does not inhibit microsomal CYP450 enzymes. In-vivo studies showed that zoledronic acid is not metabolized, and is excreted into the urine as the intact drug. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Aminoglycosides and Calcitonin Caution is advised when bisphosphonates are administered with aminoglycosides or calcitonin, since these agents may have an additive effect to lower serum calcium level for prolonged periods. In a pharmacokinetic study of 24 patients with multiple myeloma, zoledronic acid injection 4 mg given as a 15 minute infusion was administered either alone or with thalidomide (100 mg once daily on days 1-14 and 200 mg once daily on Days 15-28).

=== ACETAMINOPHEN AND DIPHENHYDRAMINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Active ingredients (in each gelcap) Purpose Acetaminophen 500 mg Pain reliever Diphenhydramine HCl 25 mg Nighttime sleep-aid Active ingredients (in each caplet) Purpose Acetaminophen 500 mg Pain reliever Diphenhydramine HCl 25 mg Nighttime sleep aid Purpose Pain reliever Nighttime sleep-aid Active ingredients (in each caplet) Purpose Acetaminophen 500mg Pain reliever Diphenhydramine HCl 25 mg Nighttime sleep aid Purpose Pain reliever Nighttime sleep aid
Indications: Uses temporary relief of occasional headaches and minor aches and pains with accompanying sleeplessness
Dosage: Directions do not take more than directed (see overdose warning ) adults and children 12 years and over take 2 gelcaps at bedtime do not take more than 2 gelcaps of this product in 24 hours children under 12 years do not use Directions do not take more than directed (see overdose warning ) adults and children 12 years and over take 2 caplets at bedtime do not take more than 2 caplets of this product in 24 hours children under 12 years do not use Directions do not take more than directed adults and children 12 years and over take 2 gelcaps at bedtime do not take more than 2 gelcaps of this product in 24 hours. children under 12 years: do not use
Warnings: Warnings Liver warning This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Do not use with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen, ask a doctor or pharmacist. with any other product containing diphenhydramine, even one used on skin in children under 12 years of age if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland glaucoma Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product drowsiness will occur avoid alcoholic drinks do not drive a motor vehicle or operate machinery Stop use and ask a doctor if sleeplessness persists continuously for more than 2 weeks. Insomnia may be a symptom of serious underlying medical illness. pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur These could be signs of a serious condition If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. Overdose warning In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur These could be signs of a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Warnings Liver warning: This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take: with other drugs containing acetaminophen more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Do not use in children under 12 years of age with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). with any other product containing diphenhydramine, even one used on skin if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland glaucoma Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product drowsiness will occur avoid alcoholic drinks do not drive a motor vehicle or operate machinery Stop use and ask a doctor if sleeplessness persists continuously for more than 2 weeks. Overdose warning In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Severe liver damage may occur if you take with other drugs containing acetaminophen more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions.

=== PYRILAMINE MALEATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Active Ingredients (in each caplet) Purpose Acetaminophen 500mg Pain reliever Caffeine 60mg Diuretic Pyrilamine maleate 15mg Antihistamine Purpose Pain reliever Diuretic Antihistamine Purpose Purpose Cough Suppressant Antihistamine Active ingredients (in each caplet) Purpose Acetaminophen 500 mg Pain reliever Caffeine 60 mg Diuretic Pyrilamine maleate 15 mg Antihistamine Purpose Pain Reliever, Diuretic, Antihistamine, Multi-Symptom Relief Active ingredients (in each caplet) Purpose Acetaminophen 500 mg Pain reliever Pamabrom 25 mg Diuretic Pyrilamine maleate 15 mg Antihistamine
Indications: Uses for the temporary relief of these symptoms associated with menstrual periods: cramps bloating water-weight gain headache backache muscle aches fatigue Uses for the temporary relief of these symptoms associated with menstrual periods: cramps bloating water weight gain headache backache muscle aches fatigue Uses for the temporary relief of these symptoms associated with menstrual periods: cramps bloating water-weight gain headache backache muscle ache fatigue Uses ■ temporarily relieves these symptoms due to the common cold, hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: ■ runny nose ■ itching of the nose or throat ■ sneezing ■ itchy, watery eyes ■ cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation Uses For the temporary relief of these symptoms associated with menstrual periods Cramps Bloating Water- weight gain Headache Backache Muscle aches Fatigue Uses for the temporary relief of these symptoms associated with menstrual periods: bloating headache muscle aches cramps backache fatigue water-weight gain Uses for the temporary relief of these symptoms associated with menstrual periods: cramps bloating water-weight gain headache backache muscle aches Uses ■ temporarily relieves these symptoms due to the common cold, hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: ■ runny nose ■ sneezing ■ itching of the nose or throat ■ itchy, watery eyes ■ cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation
Dosage: Directions do not exceed recommended dosage adults and children 12 years and over: take 2 caplets with water. Repeat every 6 hours as needed. Do not exceed 6 caplets per day. children under 12 years: consult a doctor Directions adults and children 12 years and over: do not take more than the recommended dose adults and children 12 years and over: take 2 caplets with water repeat every 6 hours, as needed do not exceed 6 caplets per day children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions · do not take more than the recommended dose · adults and children 12 years and older: · take 2 gelcaps with water · repeat every 6 hours, as needed · do not exceed 6 gelcaps per day · children under 12 years: consult a doctor Directions ■ do not take more than 4 doses in any 24-hour period ■ dose as follows or as directed by a doctor ■ mL= milliliter adults and children 12 years of age and over: 30 mL (2 TBSP) every 6 to 8 hours, not to exceed 120 mL (8 TBSP) per 24 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age: 15 mL (1 TBSP) every 6 to 8 hours, not to exceed 60 mL (4 TBSP) per 24 hours children under 6 years: consult a doctor. Directions Do not exceed recommended dosage. Adults and children 12 years and over: Take 2 tablets with water. Repeat every 6 hours, as needed. Do not exceed 6 tablets per day Children under 12 years: Consult a doctor Directions do not take more than directed adults and children 12 years and over: take 2 caplets with water repeat every 6 hours, as needed do not exceed 6 caplets per day children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions do not take more than the recommended dose adults and children 12 years and older: take 2 caplets with water. Do not exceed 6 caplets per day children under 12 years: consult a doctor Directions do not take more than the recommended dose adults and children 12 years and older: take 2 caplets with water repeat every 6 hours, as needed do not exceed 6 caplets per day children under 12 years: consult a doctor Directions ■ do not exceed 4 doses in any 24 hour period ■ use enclosed dose cup and keep with product ■ mL= milliliter ■ adults and children 12 yrs and over: 30 mL every 6 to 8 hrs ■ children under 12 years of age: do not use
Warnings: Warnings Liver warning: This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take: more than 6 caplets in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount for this product with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert Acetaminophen may cause severe skin or severe allergic reactions. Symptoms may include: • skin reddening blisters rash hives facial swelling asthma (wheezing) shock If a skin or general allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Do not use with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen ask a doctor or pharmacist if you have ever had an allertgic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease glaucoma difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product you may get drowsy avoid alcoholic drinks excitability may occur, especially in children alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery limit the use of caffeine-containing medications, foods, or beverages because too much caffeine may cause nervousness, irritability sleeplessness, and, occasionally rapid heartbeat. The recommended dose of this product contains about as much caffeine as a cup of coffee. Stop use and ask a doctor if new symptoms appear redness or swelling is present pain gets worse or lasts for more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts for more than 3 days If pregnant or breast-feeding ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of chlidren. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. Severe liver damage may occur if you take: more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash hives facial swelling asthma (wheezing) shock If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Severe liver damage may occur if you take · more than 6 gelcaps in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount for this product · with other drugs containing acetaminophen · 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy Alert: acetaminophen may cause severe skin or severe allergic reactions. Symptoms may include: · skin reddening · blisters · rash · hives · facial swelling · asthma (wheezing) · shock If a skin or general allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have ■ a cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking, asthma, or emphysema ■ glaucoma ■ difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland ■ a cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) ■ a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis Ask a doctor before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product ■ do not use more than directed ■ avoid alcoholic drinks ■ marked drowsiness may occur ■ alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness ■ be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery ■ excitability may occur, especially in children Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occurs ■ symptoms do not improve within 7 days, tend to recur, or are accompanied by a fever, rash or persistent headache. A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition. ■ new symptoms occur If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. Warnings Liver warning This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take. more than 6 caplets in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount for this product. with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product. Allergy Alert acetaminophen may cause severe skin or severe allergic reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash hives facial swelling asthma (wheezing) shock If a skin or general allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen, ask a doctor or pharmacist. if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients. Directions do not take more than the recommended dose. adults and children 12 years and older: take 2 caplets with water. Repeat every 6 hours, as needed. Do not exceed 6 caplets per day. children under 12 years: consult a doctor. Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease. glaucoma. difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland. a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis. Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin. taking sedatives or tranquilizers. When using this product you may get drowsy. avoid alcoholic drinks. excitability may occur, especially in children. alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness. be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery. limit the use of caffeine-containing medications, foods, or beverages because too much caffeine may cause nervousness, irritability, sleeplessness, and, occasionally, rapid heartbeat. Stop use and ask a doctor if new symptoms occur. redness or swelling is present. pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days. fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Severe liver damage may occur if you take: more than 6 tablets in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount for this product with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product. Allergy warning: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin or severe allergic reactions. Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland liver disease glaucoma a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product drowsiness may occur avoid alcoholic beverages alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness excitability may occur, especially in children use caution when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery limit the use of caffeine-containing medications, foods, or beverages while taking this product because too much caffeine may cause nervousness, irritability, sleeplessness, and, occasionally, rapid heart rate. Stop use and ask a doctor if new symptoms occur redness or swelling is present pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days These could be signs of a serious condition. Prompt medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. Warnings This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take Liver warning: acetaminophen may cause severe skin or severe allergic reactions. Symptoms may include: Allergy alert : more than 6 caplets in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount for this product with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product skin reddening blisters rash hives facial swelling asthma (wheezing) shock If a skin or general allergic occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease glaucoma difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product you may get drowsy avoid alcoholic drinks excitability may occur, especially in children alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery limit the use of caffeine-containing medications, foods, or beverages because too much caffeine may cause nervousness, irritability, sleeplessness, and, occasionally, rapid heartbeat. Stop use and ask a doctor if new symptoms occur redness or swelling is present pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 6 caplets in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount for this product with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy Alert acetamonophen may cause severe skin or severe allergic reactions. if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease glaucoma difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product you may get drowsy avoid alcoholic drinks excitability may occur, especially in children alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery Stop use and ask a doctor if new symptoms occur redness or swelling is present pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have ■ a cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking, asthma, or emphysema ■ glaucoma ■ difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland ■ a cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) ■ a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis Ask a doctor before use if you are ■ taking sedative or tranquilizers When using this product ■ do not use more than directed ■ marked drowsiness may occur ■ alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness ■ avoid alcoholic drinks ■ be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery ■ excitability may occur, especially in children Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occurs ■ symptoms do not improve within 7 days, tend to recur, or are accompanied by a fever, rash or persistent headache.

=== CALCIUM POLYCARBOPHIL ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: PURPOSE Bulk-forming laxative
Indications: USES relieves occasional constipation to help restore and maintain regularity this product generally produces bowel movement in 12 to 72 hours USE(S) relieves occasional constipation this product generally produces bowel movement in 12 to 72 hours USES ▪ relieves occasional constipation to help restore and maintain regularity ▪ this product generally produces bowel movement in 12 to 72 hours U ses relieves occasional constipation to help restore and maintain regularity this product generally produces bowel movement in 12 to 72 hours
Dosage: DIRECTIONS take each dose of this product with at least 8 ounces (a full glass) of water or other fluid. Taking this product without enough liquid may cause choking. (See choking warning). this product works naturally so continued use for one to three days is normally required to provide full benefit. Dosage may vary according to diet, exercise, previous laxative use or severity of constipation. Age Recommended dose Daily maximum adults & children 12 years of age and over 2 caplets once a day up to 4 times a day children under 12 years consult a physician DIRECTIONS take this product (child or adult dose) with a full glass or water (8oz.) or other fluid. Taking this product without enough liquid may cause chocking. See choking warning. dosage will vary according to diet, exercise, previous laxative use or severity of constipation continued use for 1 to 3 days is normally required to provide full benefit adults and children 12 years and over 2 caplets, 1 to 4 times a day children under 12 years ask a doctor DIRECTIONS ▪ Take each dose of this product with at least 8 ounces (a full glass) of water or other fluid. ▪ This product works naturally so continued use for one to three days is normally required to provide full benefit. Age Recommended Daily maximum adults & children 12 years of age and over 2 caplets once a day up to 4 times a day children under 12 years consult a physician
Warnings: Choking Warning: Taking this product without adequate fluid may cause it to swell and block your throat or esophagus and may cause choking. Do not take this product if you have difficulty in swallowing. If you experience chest pain, vomiting, or difficulty in swallowing or breathing after taking this product, seek immediate medical attention. Ask a doctor before use if you have abdominal pain, nausea, or vomiting a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks Ask your doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other drug. Take this product 2 or more hours before or after other drugs. All laxatives may affect how other drugs work. When using this product do not use for more than 7 days unless directed by a doctor do not take more than 8 tablets in a 24 hour period unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rectal bleeding occurs or if you fail to have a bowel movement after use of this or any other laxative. These could be signs of a serious condition. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1-800-222-1222. WARNINGS Choking: Taking this product without adequate fluid may cause it to swell and block your throat or esophagus and may cause choking. If you experience chest pain, vomiting or difficulty in swallowing or breathing after taking this product, seek immediate medical attention. Ask a doctor before use if you have ▪ abdominal pain, nausea, or vomiting ▪ a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks Ask your doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other drug. When using this product ▪ do not use for more than 7 days unless directed by a doctor ▪ do not take more than 8 caplets in a 24 hour period unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rectal bleeding occurs or if you fail to have a bowel movement after use of this or any other laxative. When using this product do not use for more than 7 days unless directed by a doctor do not take more than 8 caplets in a 24 hour period unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rectal bleeding occurs or if you fail to have a bowel movement after use of this or any other laxative. Ask your doctor before use if you have abdominal pain, nausea, or vomiting a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks Ask your doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other drug.

=== CEFUROXIME AXETIL ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cefuroxime axetil tablet is a cephalosporin antibacterial drug indicated for the treatment of the following infections due to susceptible bacteria: (1) Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (adults and pediatric patients) ( 1.1 ) Acute bacterial otitis media (pediatric patients) ( 1.2 ) Acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis (adults and pediatric patients) ( 1.3 ) Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis (adults and pediatric patients 13 years and older) ( 1.4 ) Uncomplicated skin and skin-structure infections (adults and pediatric patients 13 years and older) ( 1.5 ) Uncomplicated urinary tract infections (adults and pediatric patients 13 years and older) ( 1.6 ) Uncomplicated gonorrhea (adults and pediatric patients 13 years and older) ( 1.7 ) Early Lyme disease (adults and pediatric patients 13 years and older) ( 1.8 ) To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cefuroxime axetil and other antibacterial drugs, cefuroxime axetil should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. 1.1 Pharyngitis/Tonsillitis Cefuroxime axetil tablets are indicated for the treatment of adult patients and pediatric patients (13 years and older) with mild-to-moderate pharyngitis/tonsillitis caused by susceptible strains of Streptococcus pyogenes . Limitations of Use The efficacy of cefuroxime axetil in the prevention of rheumatic fever was not established in clinical trials. The efficacy of cefuroxime axetil in the treatment of penicillin-resistant strains of Streptococcus pyogenes has not been demonstrated in clinical trials. 1.2 Acute Bacterial Otitis Media Cefuroxime axetil tablets are indicated for the treatment of pediatric patients (who can swallow tablets whole) with acute bacterial otitis media caused by susceptible strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae (including β-lactamase–producing strains), Moraxella catarrhalis (including β-lactamase–producing strains), or Streptococcus pyogenes . 1.3 Acute Bacterial Maxillary Sinusitis Cefuroxime axetil tablets are indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients (13 years and older) with mild-to-moderate acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis caused by susceptible strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae or Haemophilus influenzae (non -β -lactamase–producing strains only). Limitations of Use The effectiveness of Cefuroxime axetil for sinus infections caused by β-lactamase–producing Haemophilus influenzae or Moraxella catarrhalis in patients with acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis was not established due to insufficient numbers of these isolates in the clinical trials [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . 1.4 Acute Bacterial Exacerbations of Chronic Bronchitis Cefuroxime axetil tablets are indicated for the treatment of adult patients and pediatric patients (aged 13 and older) with mild-to-moderate acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis caused by susceptible strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae (β-lactamase–negative strains), or Haemophilus parainfluenzae (β-lactamase–negative strains). 1.5 Uncomplicated Skin and Skin-Structure Infections Cefuroxime axetil tablets are indicated for the treatment of adult patients and pediatric patients (aged 13 and older) with uncomplicated skin and skin-structure infections caused by susceptible strains of Staphylococcus aureus (including β - lactamase–producing strains) or Streptococcus pyogenes. 1.6 Uncomplicated Urinary Tract Infections Cefuroxime axetil tablets are indicated for the treatment of adult patients and pediatric patients (aged 13 and older) with uncomplicated urinary tract infections caused by susceptible strains of Escherichia coli or Klebsiella pneumoniae . 1.7 Uncomplicated Gonorrhea Cefuroxime axetil tablets are indicated for the treatment of adult patients and pediatric patients (aged 13 and older) with uncomplicated gonorrhea, urethral and endocervical, caused by penicillinase-producing and non-penicillinase–producing susceptible strains of Neisseria gonorrhoeae and uncomplicated gonorrhea, rectal, in females, caused by non-penicillinase–producing susceptible strains of Neisseria gonorrhoeae . 1.8 Early Lyme Disease (erythema migrans) Cefuroxime axetil tablets are indicated for the treatment of adult patients and pediatric patients (aged 13 and older) with early Lyme disease (erythema migrans) caused by susceptible strains of Borrelia burgdorferi. 1.10 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cefuroxime axetil and other antibacterial drugs, cefuroxime axetil should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cefuroxime axetil tablets are a cephalosporin antibacterial drug indicated for the treatment of the following infections due to susceptible bacteria: ( 1 ) Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (adults and pediatric patients) ( 1.1 ) Acute bacterial otitis media (pediatric patients) ( 1.2 ) Acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis (adults and pediatric patients) ( 1.3 ) Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis (adults and pediatric patients 13 years and older) ( 1.4 ) Uncomplicated skin and skin-structure infections (adults and pediatric patients 13 years and older) ( 1.5 ) Uncomplicated urinary tract infections (adults and pediatric patients 13 years and older) ( 1.6 ) Uncomplicated gonorrhea (adults and pediatric patients 13 years and older) ( 1.7 ) Early Lyme disease (adults and pediatric patients 13 years and older) ( 1.8 ) To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cefuroxime axetil tablets and other antibacterial drugs, cefuroxime axetil tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria. Limitations of Use The efficacy of cefuroxime axetil tablets in the prevention of rheumatic fever was not established in clinical trials. The efficacy of cefuroxime axetil tablets in the treatment of penicillin-resistant strains of Streptococcus pyogenes has not been demonstrated in clinical trials. 1.3 Acute Bacterial Maxillary Sinusitis Cefuroxime axetil tablets are indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients (13 years and older) with mild-to-moderate acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis caused by susceptible strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae or Haemophilus influenzae (non - β-lactamase–producing strains only). Limitations of Use The effectiveness of cefuroxime axetil tablets for sinus infections caused by β-lactamase–producing Haemophilus influenzae or Moraxella catarrhalis in patients with acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis was not established due to insufficient numbers of these isolates in the clinical trials [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . 1.10 Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cefuroxime axetil tablets and other antibacterial drugs, cefuroxime axetil tablets should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Tablets and oral suspension are not bioequivalent and are therefore not substitutable on a milligram-per-milligram basis. ( 2.1 ) Administer tablets with or without food. ( 2.2 ) Administer cefuroxime axetil tablets as described in the dosage guidelines. ( 2.2 ) Dosage adjustment is required for patients with impaired renal function. ( 2.5 ) Adult Patients and Pediatric Patients Dosage Guidelines for Cefuroxime Axetil Tablets Infection Dosage Duration (Days) Adults and Adolescents (13 years and older) Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (mild to moderate) 250 mg every 12 hours 10 Acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis (mild to moderate) 250 mg every 12 hours 10 Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis (mild to moderate) 250 or 500 mg every 12 hours 10 Uncomplicated skin and skin-structure infections 250 or 500 mg every 12 hours 10 Uncomplicated urinary tract infections 250 mg every 12 hours 7 to 10 Uncomplicated gonorrhea 1,000 mg single dose Early Lyme disease 500 mg every 12 hours 20 Pediatric Patients younger than 13 years (who can swallow tablets whole ) Acute bacterial otitis media 250 mg every 12 hours 10 Acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis 250 mg every 12 hours 10 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Cefuroxime axetil tablets and cefuroxime axetil for oral suspension are not bioequivalent and are therefore not substitutable on a milligram-per-milligram basis [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Administer cefuroxime axetil tablets as described in the appropriate dosage guidelines [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )]. Administer cefuroxime axetil tablets with or without food. Pediatric patients (aged 13 years and older) who cannot swallow the cefuroxime axetil tablets whole should receive cefuroxime axetil for oral suspension because the tablet has a strong, persistent bitter taste when crushed [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )]. 2.2 Dosage for Cefuroxime axetil Tablets Administer cefuroxime axetil tablets as described in the dosage guidelines table below with or without food. Table 1. Adult Patients and Pediatric Patients Dosage Guidelines for Cefuroxime Axetil Tablets Infection Dosage Duration (Days) Adults and Adolescents (13 years and older) Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (mild to moderate) 250 mg every 12 hours 10 Acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis (mild to moderate) 250 mg every 12 hours 10 Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis(mild to moderate ) 250 or 500 mg every 12 hours 10a Uncomplicated skin and skin-structure infections 250 or 500 mg every 12 hours 10 Uncomplicated urinary tract infections 250 mg every 12 hours 7 to 10 Uncomplicated gonorrhea 1,000 mg single dose Early Lyme disease 500 mg every 12 hours 20 Pediatric Patients younger than 13 years (who can swallow tablets whole) b Acute bacterial otitis media 250 mg every 12 hours 10 Acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis 250 mg every 12 hours 10 a The safety and effectiveness of cefuroxime axetil administered for less than 10 days in patients with acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis have not been established. b When crushed, the tablet has a strong, persistent bitter taste. Therefore, patients who cannot swallow the tablet whole should receive the oral suspension. 2.5 Dosage in Patients with Impaired Renal Function A dosage interval adjustment is required for patients whose creatinine clearance is less than 30 mL/min, as listed in Table 4 below, because cefuroxime is eliminated primarily by the kidney [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Table 4. Dosing in Adults with Renal Impairment Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Recommended Dosage ≥30 No dosage adjustment 10 to ˂30 Standard individual dose given every 24 hours ˂10 (without hemodialysis) Standard individual dose given every 48 hours Hemodialysis A single additional standard dose should be given at the end of each dialysis ( 2.5 ) Adult Patients and Pediatric Patients Dosage Guidelines for Cefuroxime Axetil Tablets Infection Dosage Duration (Days) Adults and Adolescents (13 years and older) Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (mild to moderate) 250 mg every 12 hours 10 Acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis (mild to moderate) 250 mg every 12 hours 10 Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis (mild to moderate) 250 mg or 500 mg every 12 hours 10 Uncomplicated skin and skin-structure infections 250 mg or 500 mg every 12 hours 10 Uncomplicated urinary tract infections 250 mg every 12 hours 7 to 10 Uncomplicated gonorrhea 1,000 mg single dose Early Lyme disease 500 mg every 12 hours 20 Pediatric Patients younger than 13 years (who can swallow tablets whole) Acute bacterial otitis media 250 mg every 12 hours 10 Acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis 250 mg every 12 hours 10 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Cefuroxime axetil tablets and cefuroxime axetil for oral suspension are not bioequivalent and are therefore not substitutable on a milligram-per-milligram basis [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Administer cefuroxime axetil tablets as described in the appropriate dosage guidelines [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. Pediatric patients (aged 13 years and older) who cannot swallow the cefuroxime axetil tablets whole should receive cefuroxime axetil for oral suspension because the tablet has a strong, persistent bitter taste when crushed [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. Adult Patients and Pediatric Patients Dosage Guidelines for Cefuroxime Axetil Tablets Infection Dosage Duration (Days) Adults and Adolescents (13 years and older) Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (mild to moderate) 250 mg every 12 hours 10 Acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis (mild to moderate) 250 mg every 12 hours 10 Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis (mild to moderate) 250 mg or 500 mg every 12 hours 10 a Uncomplicated skin and skin-structure infections 250 mg or 500 mg every 12 hours 10 Uncomplicated urinary tract infections 250 mg every 12 hours 7 to 10 Uncomplicated gonorrhea 1,000 mg single dose Early Lyme disease 500 mg every 12 hours 20 Pediatric Patients younger than 13 years (who can swallow tablets whole) b Acute bacterial otitis media 250 mg every 12 hours 10 Acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis 250 mg every 12 hours 10 a The safety and effectiveness of cefuroxime axetil tablets administered for less than 10 days in patients with acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis have not been established. 2.5 Dosage in Patients with Impaired Renal Function A dosage interval adjustment is required for patients whose creatinine clearance is less than 30 mL/min, as listed in Table 4 below, because cefuroxime is eliminated primarily by the kidney [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Dosing in Adults with Renal Impairment Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Recommended Dosage ≥30 No dosage adjustment 10 to <30 Standard individual dose given every 24 hours <10 (without hemodialysis) Standard individual dose given every 48 hours Hemodialysis A single additional standard dose should be given at the end of each dialysis ( 2.5 ) Adult Patients and Pediatric Patients Dosage Guidelines for Cefuroxime Axetil Tablets Infection Dosage Duration (Days) Adults and Adolescents (13 years and older) Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (mild to moderate) 250 mg every 12 hours 10 Acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis (mild to moderate) 250 mg every 12 hours 10 Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis (mild to moderate) 250 mg or 500 mg every 12 hours 10 Uncomplicated skin and skin-structure infections 250 mg or 500 mg every 12 hours 10 Uncomplicated urinary tract infections 250 mg every 12 hours 7 to 10 Uncomplicated gonorrhea 1,000 mg single dose Early Lyme disease 500 mg every 12 hours 20 Pediatric Patients younger than 13 years (who can swallow tablets whole) Acute bacterial otitis media 250 mg every 12 hours 10 Acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis 250 mg every 12 hours 10 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Cefuroxime axetil tablets and cefuroxime axetil for oral suspension are not bioequivalent and are therefore not substitutable on a milligram-per-milligram basis [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Adult Patients and Pediatric Patients Dosage Guidelines for Cefuroxime Axetil Tablets a The safety and effectiveness of cefuroxime axetil tablets administered for less than 10 days in patients with acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis have not been established. Infection Dosage Duration (Days) Adults and Adolescents (13 years and older) Pharyngitis/tonsillitis (mild to moderate) 250 mg every 12 hours 10 Acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis (mild to moderate) 250 mg every 12 hours 10 Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis (mild to moderate) 250 mg or 500 mg every 12 hours 10 a Uncomplicated skin and skin-structure infections 250 mg or 500 mg every 12 hours 10 Uncomplicated urinary tract infections 250 mg every 12 hours 7 to 10 Uncomplicated gonorrhea 1,000 mg single dose Early Lyme disease 500 mg every 12 hours 20 Pediatric Patients younger than 13 years (who can swallow tablets whole) b Acute bacterial otitis media 250 mg every 12 hours 10 Acute bacterial maxillary sinusitis 250 mg every 12 hours 10 2.5 Dosage in Patients with Impaired Renal Function A dosage interval adjustment is required for patients whose creatinine clearance is less than 30 mL/min, as listed in Table 4 below, because cefuroxime is eliminated primarily by the kidney [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ].
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Cefuroxime axetil is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to cefuroxime axetil or to other β-lactam antibacterial drugs (e.g., penicillins and cephalosporins). Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to cefuroxime axetil or to other β-lactams (e.g., penicillins and cephalosporins). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Cefuroxime axetil tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to cefuroxime axetil tablets or to other β-lactam antibacterial drugs (e.g., penicillins and cephalosporins). Known hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylaxis) to cefuroxime axetil tablets or to other β-lactams (e.g., penicillins and cephalosporins). ( 4 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that reduce gastric acidity may lower the bioavailability of cefuroxime axetil. ( 7.1 ) Coadministration with probenecid increases systemic exposure to cefuroxime axetil and is therefore not recommended. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Drugs that Reduce Gastric Acidity Drugs that reduce gastric acidity may result in a lower bioavailability of cefuroxime axetil compared with administration in the fasting state. Administration of drugs that reduce gastric acidity may negate the food effect of increased absorption of cefuroxime axetil when administered in the postprandial state. Administer cefuroxime axetil at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after administration of short-acting antacids. Histamine-2 (H2) antagonists and proton pump inhibitors should be avoided. 7.2 Probenecid Concomitant administration of probenecid with cefuroxime axetil tablets increases serum concentrations of cefuroxime [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Coadministration of probenecid with cefuroxime axetil is not recommended. 7.3 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions A false-positive reaction for glucose in the urine may occur with copper reduction tests (e.g., Benedict's or Fehling's solution), but not with enzyme-based tests for glycosuria. As a false-negative result may occur in the ferricyanide test, it is recommended that either the glucose oxidase or hexokinase method be used to determine blood/plasma glucose levels in patients receiving cefuroxime axetil. The presence of cefuroxime does not interfere with the assay of serum and urine creatinine by the alkaline picrate method. Histamine-2 (H 2 ) antagonists and proton pump inhibitors should be avoided. 7.2 Probenecid Concomitant administration of probenecid with cefuroxime axetil tablets increases serum concentrations of cefuroxime [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ].

=== CHLORPHENIRAMINE MALEATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antihistamine Purposes Pain reliever-fever reducer Antihistamine Nasal decongestant Purposes Pain reliever/Fever reducer Cough suppressant Purposes Pain reliever/Fever reducer Antihistamine Cough suppressant Purposes Antihistamine Cough suppressant Purpose Antihistamine Cough suppressant Purpose Cough suppressant Expectorant Nasal decongestant PURPOSES Antihistamine Cough suppressant Uses temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: runny nose sneezing itchy, watery eyes itching of the nose or throat Purpose Pain reliever/fever reducer Cough suppressant Expectorant Nasal decongestant Purpose Pain reliever/fever reducer Antihistamine Cough suppressant Nasal decongestant Purpose Pain reliever/Fever reducer Antihistamine Cough suppressant
Indications: Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever (allergic rhinitis) or other upper respiratory allergies: sneezing runny nose itching of the nose or throat itchy, watery eyes Uses ■ temporarily relieves these symptoms due to a cold, the flu, or hay fever: ■ minor aches and pains ■ sore throat ■ headache ■ runny nose ■ sinus congestion and pressure ■ nasal congestion due to a cold or hay fever ■ runny nose ■ sneezing, itching of the nose or throat, and itchy, watery eyes due to hay fever ■ temporarily reduces fever ■ promotes nasal and/or sinus drainage Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to a common cold or flu: headache minor aches and pains cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation minor sore throat pain temporarily reduces fever Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to a common cold or flu: headache minor aches and pains cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation minor sore throat pain runny nose temporarily reduces fever Uses • temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold • temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: • runny nose • sneezing • itchy, watery eyes • itching of the nose or throat Uses temporarily relieves common cold symptoms: cough due to minor throat & bronchial irritation sneezing runny nose Uses temporarily relieves common cold symptoms: nasal congestion sinus congestion & pressure cough due to minor throat & bronchial irritation cough to help you sleep reduces swelling of nasal passages temporarily restores freer breathing through the nose promotes nasal and/or sinus drainage helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive. Uses temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: runny nose sneezing itchy, watery eyes itching of the nose or throat 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended-Release Suspension is indicated for the temporary relief of cough and upper respiratory symptoms associated with allergy or the common cold in patients 18 years of age and older. Important Limitations of Use : • Not indicated for pediatric patients under 18 years of age [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.4 ) ]. • Contraindicated in pediatric patients less than 6 years of age [ see Contraindications (4) ]. • Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ], reserve Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex for use in adult patients for whomthe benefits of cough suppression are expected to outweigh the risks, and in whom an adequateassessment of the etiology of the cough has been made. Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex is a combination of hydrocodone, an opioid agonist; and chlorpheniramine, a histamine-1 (H1) receptor antagonist, indicated for the temporary relief of cough and upper respiratory symptoms associated with allergy or the common cold in patients 18 years of age and older. ( 1 ) Important Limitations of Use ( 1 ) Not indicated for pediatric patients under 18 years of age. Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses, reserve Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex for use in adult patients for whom the benefits of cough suppression are expected to outweigh the risks, and in whom an adequate assessment of the etiology of the cough has been made. Uses temporarily relieves these common cold and flu symptoms: cough sore throat headache nasal congestion minor aches and pains sinus congestion and pressure sneezing and runny nose (Nighttime only) helps clear nasal passages relieves cough to help you sleep helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to make coughs more productive (Daytime only) temporarily reduces fever Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies: runny nose itchy, watery eyes sneezing itching of the nose or throat Uses temporarily relieves common cold/flu symptoms: cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation sore throat headache minor aches and pains fever runny nose and sneezing
Dosage: Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over: take 1 tablet every 4 to 6 hours, not to exceed 6 tablets (24 mg) in 24 hours, or as directed by a doctor children under 12 years of age: consult a doctor Directions ■ adults and children 12 years of age and over: take 2 tablets every 4 hours, while symptoms persist, not to exceed 6 doses (12 tablets) in 24 hours, or as directed by a doctor ■ children 6 to under 12 years of age: take 1 tablet every 4 hours, while symptoms persist, not to exceed 5 doses (5 tablets) in 24 hours, or as directed by a doctor ■ children under 6 years of age : consult a doctor Directions do not use more than directed take every 6 hours, while symptoms persist. Do not take more than 3 packets in 24 hours unless directed by a doctor. Age Dose adults and children 12 years of age and over one packet children under 12 years of age do not use dissolve contents of one packet into 8 oz. hot water; sip while hot. Consume the entire drink within 10-15 minutes. if using a microwave, add contents of one packet to 8 oz. of cool water; stir briskly before and after heating. Do not overheat. Consume entire drink within 10-15 minutes. Do not overheat Directions • SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING • measure only with dosing cup provided • keep dosing cup with product • mL = milliliter • do not take more than 4 doses in any 24-hour period Age Dose Adults and children 12 years and older 20 mL every 6 hours Children 6 to under 12 years 10 mL every 6 hours Children under 6 years do not use Directions • take only as directed • only use the dose cup provided • do not exceed 4 doses per 24 hrs adults & children 12 yrs & over 30 mL every 6 hrs children 6 to under 12 yrs 15 mL every 6 hrs children 4 to under 6 yrs do not use unless directed by a doctor children under 4 yrs do not use Directions • take only as directed • only use the dose cup provided • do not exceed 4 doses per 24 hrs adults & children 12 yrs & over 30 mL every 4 hrs children 6 to under 12 yrs 15 mL every 4 hrs children 4 to under 6 yrs ask a doctor children under 4 yrs do not use Directions measure only with dosing cup provided keep dosing cup with product mL = milliliter do not take more than 4 doses in any 24-hour period age dose Children under 6 years do not use children 6 to under 12 years 10 mL every 6 hours adults and children 12 years and older 20 mL every 6 hours Other information each 10 mL contains: sodium 7 mg store at room temperature, Do not refrigerate. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults 18 years of age and older : 5 mL every 12 hours as needed, not to exceed 2 doses (10 mL) in 24 hours. ( 2.2 ) Measure Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex with an accurate milliliter measuring device. ( 2.1 , 5.5 ) Do not increase the dose or dosing frequency. ( 2.1 ) Prescribe for the shortest duration consistent with treatment goals. (2.3 ) Reevaluate patients with unresponsive cough in 5 days or sooner for possible underlying pathology. ( 2.3 ) Reevaluate patient prior to refilling. ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Administer Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended-Release Suspension by the oral route only. Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended-Release Suspension can be taken with or without food. Shake well before using. Do not mix Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended-Release Suspension with other liquids or medicines. Mixing may change how Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended-Release Suspension works. Always use an accurate milliliter measuring device when administering Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended-Release Suspension to ensure that the dose is measured and administered accurately. A household teaspoon is not an accurate measuring device and could lead to overdosage [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. The dosing cup is provided with the 3 oz (70 mL) and 4 oz (115 mL) packaged product. The dosing cup fills for 2.5 mL dose and for 5 mL dose. Instruct the patient to fill to the line that the dose has been prescribed. Do not fill over the dose prescribed. Rinse the measuring cup with water after each use. For prescriptions where a measuring device is not provided, a pharmacist can provide an appropriate measuring device and can provide instructions for measuring the correct dose. Do not overfill. Rinse the measuring device with water after each use. Advise patients not to increase the dose or dosing frequency of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended-Release Suspension because serious adverse events such as respiratory depression may occur with overdosage [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 ) and Overdosage (10 ) ]. The dosage of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended-Release Suspension should not be increased if cough fails to respond; an unresponsive cough should be reevaluated for possible underlying pathology [ see Dosage and Administration (2.3 ) and Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . 2.2 Recommended Dosage Adults 18 years of age and older : 5 mL every 12 hours as needed, not to exceed 2 doses (10 mL) in 24 hours 2.3 Monitoring, Maintenance, and Discontinuation of Therapy Prescribe Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended-Release Suspension for the shortest duration that is consistent with individual patient treatment goals [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24 to 72 hours of initiating therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 ) ]. Reevaluate patients with unresponsive cough in 5 days or sooner for possible underlying pathology, such as foreign body or lower respiratory tract disease [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. If a patient requires a refill, reevaluate the cause of the cough and assess the need for continued treatment with Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended-Release Suspension, the relative incidence of adverse reactions, and the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Do not abruptly discontinue Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended-Release Suspension in a physically-dependent patient [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3 ) ]. When a patient who has been taking Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended-Release Suspension regularly and may bephysically dependent no longer requires therapy with Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex Extended-Release Suspension, taper the dose gradually, by25% to 50% every 2 to 4 days, while monitoring carefully for signs and symptoms of withdrawal. If the patientdevelops these signs or symptoms, raise the dose to the previous level and taper more slowly, either byincreasing the interval between decreases, decreasing the amount of change in dose, or both. Directions do not take more than directed adults and children 12 years and over take 2 caplets every 4 hours swallow whole – do not crush, chew, or dissolve do not take more than 10 caplets in 24 hours children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions take every 4 to 6 hours, or as directed by a doctor adults and children 12 years and over 1 tablet. Do not exceed 6 tablets in 24 hours. children 6 to under 12 years 1/2 tablet (break tablet in half). Do not exceed 3 whole tablets in 24 hours. children under 6 years do not use Directions • take only as directed • only use the dose cup provided • do not exceed 4 doses per 24 hrs adults & children 12 yrs & over 30 mL every 6 hrs children 4 to under 12 yrs ask a doctor children under 4 yrs do not use
Warnings: Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis glaucoma difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland Warnings Liver warning: This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if: ■ adult takes more than 12 tablets in 24 hours, which the maximum daily amount for this product ■ child takes more than 5 doses in 24 hours ■ taken with other drugs containing acetaminophen ■ adult has 3 or more alcoholic drinks everyday while using this product Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Sore throat warning: If sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting consult a doctor promptly. Do not use in a child under 12 years of age if you are allergic to acetaminophen with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen, ask a doctor or pharmacist. if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product. Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking, asthma, or emphysema Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage. Stop use and ask a doctor if pain or cough gets worse or lasts more than 7 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts. These could be signs of a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Prompt medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. If you do not know if your prescription drug contains a MAO, ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product. Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease glaucoma trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking, asthma, or emphysema Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product avoid alcoholic drinks marked drowsiness may occur alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery excitability may occur, especially in children Stop use and ask a doctor if pain or cough gets worse or lasts more than 7 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present new symptoms occur cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts. Warnings Do not use • to sedate a child or make a child sleepy • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product Ask a doctor before use if you have • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland • glaucoma • a cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) • a breathing problem or chronic cough that lasts or as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis or emphysema Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product • Do not use more than directed • marked drowsiness may occur • avoid alcoholic drinks • alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness • be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery • excitability may occur, especially in children Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days, comes back, or is accompanied by fever, rash, or persistent headache. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Warnings Do not use • If you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. • to make a child sleepy Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. WARNINGS Do not use to sedate a child or to make a child sleepy if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. Ask a doctor before use if you have trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland glaucoma a cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) a breathing problem or chronic cough that lasts or as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis or emphysema Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product do not use more than directed marked drowsiness may occur avoid alcoholic drinks alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery excitability may occur, especially in children Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days, comes back, or is accompanied by fever, rash, or persistent headache. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1-800-222-1222. Directions measure only with dosing cup provided keep dosing cup with product mL = milliliter do not take more than 4 doses in any 24-hour period age dose Children under 6 years do not use children 6 to under 12 years 10 mL every 6 hours adults and children 12 years and older 20 mL every 6 hours Other information each 10 mL contains: sodium 7 mg store at room temperature, Do not refrigerate. Sore throat warning: If sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. Do not use with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson’s disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease thyroid disease diabetes high blood pressure heart disease glaucoma (Nighttime only) cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis (Nighttime only) Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin taking sedatives or tranquilizers (Nighttime only) When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage excitability may occur, especially in children (Nighttime only) marked drowsiness may occur (Nighttime only) alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness (Nighttime only) avoid alcoholic beverages (Nighttime only) use caution when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery (Nighttime only) Stop use and ask a doctor if nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occur pain, nasal congestion, or cough gets worse or lasts more than 7 days new symptoms occur fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts. Do not take DAYTIME and NIGHTTIME products at the same time. Warnings Do not use to make a child sleepy. Ask a doctor before use if you have a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland glaucoma Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers. When using this product drowsiness may occur avoid alcoholic beverages alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness use caution when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery excitability may occur, especially in children If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Warnings Liver warning This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 4 doses in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount for this product with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks daily while using this product Allergy Alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: Skin reddening Blisters Rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away Sore throat warning If sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or is followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex is contraindicated for: All children younger than 6 years of age [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3 ), Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ]. Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex is also contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment[ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ]. Hypersensitivity to hydrocodone, chlorpheniramine, or any of the inactive ingredients in Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex [ see Adverse Reactions (6) ]. Children younger than 6 years of age. ( 4 ) Significant respiratory depression. ( 4 ) Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in absence of resuscitative equipment. ( 4 ) Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus.( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to hydrocodone, chlorpheniramine, or any of the inactive ingredients in Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex. ( 4 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No specific drug interaction studies have been conducted with Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex. Phenytoin : Avoid concomitant use; may increase phenytoin levels. ( 7.4 ) Serotonergic drugs : Concomitant use may result in serotonin syndrome. Discontinue if serotonin syndrome is suspected. ( 7.6 ) Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs): Can potentiate the effects of hydrocodone. Avoid concomitant use in patients receiving MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping an MAOI. ( 7.7 ) Muscle relaxants : Avoid concomitant use. ( 7.8 ) Diuretics : Hydrocodone may reduce the efficacy of diuretics. Monitor for reduced effect. ( 7.9 ) Anticholinergic drugs : Concomitant use may cause paralytic ileus. ( 5.9 , 7.10 ) 7.1 Alcohol Concomitant use of alcohol with Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex can result in an increase of hydrocodone plasma levels and potentially fatal overdose of hydrocodone. Instruct patients not to consume alcoholic beverages or use prescription or nonprescription products containing alcohol while on Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 The concomitant use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex and CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. ketoconazole), or protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), can increase the plasma concentration of hydrocodone, resulting in increased or prolonged opioid effects. These effects could be more pronounced with concomitant use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex and CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 inhibitors, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex is achieved [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7 ) ]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the hydrocodone plasma concentration will decrease [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3 ) ], resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to hydrocodone. Avoid the use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex while taking a CYP3A4 or CYP2D6 inhibitor. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. 7.3 CYP3A4 Inducers The concomitant use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex and CYP3A4 inducers such as rifampin, carbamazepine, or phenytoin, can decrease the plasma concentration of hydrocodone [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ], resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to hydrocodone [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the hydrocodone plasma concentration will increase [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ], which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. Avoid the use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex in patients who are taking CYP3A4 inducers. If concomitant use of a CYP3A4 inducer is necessary, follow the patient for reduced efficacy. 7.4 Phenytoin Adverse event reports in the literature suggest a possible drug interaction involving increased serum phenytoin levels and phenytoin toxicity when chlorpheniramine and phenytoin are co-administered. The exact mechanism for this interaction is not known, however it is believed that chlorpheniramine may inhibit the hepatic metabolism of phenytoin. Avoid the use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex in patients who are taking phenytoin. 7.5 Benzodiazepines, and Other CNS Depressants Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, and other opioids, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Avoid the use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex in patients who are taking benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ], and instruct patients to avoid consumption of alcohol while on Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex [ see Drug Interactions (7.1 ) , Patient Counseling Information (17) ]. 7.6 Serotonergic Drugs The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation. Discontinue Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex if serotonin syndrome is suspected. 7.7 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Avoid the use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex in patients who are taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or have taken MAOIs within 14 days. The use of MAOIs or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone, one of the active ingredients in Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex, may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone. MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma). 7.8 Muscle Relaxants Hydrocodone may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Avoid the use of Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex in patients taking muscle relaxants. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected. 7.9 Diuretics Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. 7.10 Anticholinergic Drugs The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs with Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ].Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when Hydrocodone Polistirex and Chlorpheniramine Polistirex is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Additive adverse effects resulting from cholinergic blockade (e.g., xerostomia, blurred vision, or constipation) may occur when anticholinergic drugs are administered with chlorpheniramine.

=== CYANOCOBALAMIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS: PNV-DHA is a multivitamin/multimineral nutritional supplement indicated for use in the dietary management of patients with nutritional deficiencies or are in need of nutritional supplementation. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cyanocobalamin is indicated for vitamin B 12 deficiencies due to malabsorption which may be associated with the following conditions: Addisonian (pernicious) anemia Gastrointestinal pathology, dysfunction, or surgery, including gluten enteropathy or sprue, small bowel bacteria overgrowth, total or partial gastrectomy Fish tapeworm infestation Malignancy of pancreas or bowel Folic acid deficiency It may be possible to treat the underlying disease by surgical correction of anatomic lesions leading to small bowel bacterial overgrowth, expulsion of fish tapeworm, discontinuation of drugs leading to vitamin malabsorption (see Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions ), use of a gluten-free diet in nontropical sprue, or administration of antibiotics in tropical sprue. Such measures remove the need for long-term administration of cyanocobalamin. Requirements of vitamin B 12 in excess of normal (due to pregnancy, thyrotoxicosis, hemolytic anemia, hemorrhage, malignancy, hepatic and renal disease) can usually be met with oral supplementation. Cyanocobalamin Injection is also suitable for the vitamin B 12 absorption test ( Schilling Test ). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cyanocobalamin is indicated for vitamin B12 deficiencies due to malabsorption which may be associated with the following conditions: Addisonian (pernicious) anemia Gastrointestinal pathology, dysfunction, or surgery, including gluten enteropathy or sprue, small bowel bacteria overgrowth, total or partial gastrectomy Fish tapeworm infestation Malignancy of pancreas or bowel Folic acid deficiency It may be possible to treat the underlying disease by surgical correction of anatomic lesions leading to small bowel bacterial overgrowth, expulsion of fish tapeworm, discontinuation of drugs leading to vitamin malabsorption (see Drug Interactions ), use of a gluten-free diet in nontropical sprue, or administration of antibiotics in tropical sprue.Such measures remove the need for long-term administration of cyanocobalamin. Requirements of vitamin B12 in excess of normal (due to pregnancy, thyrotoxicosis, hemolytic anemia, hemorrhage, malignancy, hepatic and renal disease) can usually be met with oral supplementation. Cyanocobalamin Injection, USP is also suitable for the vitamin B12 absorption test (Schilling test). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cyanocobalamin is indicated for vitamin B 12 deficiencies due to malabsorption which may be associated with the following conditions: •Addisonian (pernicious) anemia •Gastrointestinal pathology, dysfunction, or surgery, including gluten enteropathy or sprue, small bowel bacteria overgrowth, total or partial gastrectomy •Fish tapeworm infestation •Malignancy of pancreas or bowel •Folic acid deficiency It may be possible to treat the underlying disease by surgical correction of anatomic lesions leading to small bowel bacterial overgrowth, expulsion of fish tapeworm, discontinuation of drugs leading to vitamin malabsorption (see Drug Interactions), use of a gluten-free diet in nontropical sprue, or administration of antibiotics in tropical sprue. Cyanocobalamin Injection, USP is also suitable for the vitamin B 12 absorption test (Schilling test). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Supplementation of the diet with ten essential vitamins. Supplementation of the diet with fluoride for caries prophylaxis. M ultivitamin with Fluoride 0.5 mg Chewable Tablets provide 0.5 mg fluoride in tablet form for children 4-6 years of age in areas where the drinking water fluoride level is less than 0.3 ppm, and for children 6 years of age and above where the drinking water contains 0.3 through 0.6 ppm of fluoride. Multivitamin with Fluoride 0.5 mg Chewable Tablets supply significant amounts of Vitamins A, C, D, E, thiamine, riboflavin, niacin, vitamin B6, vitamin B12, and folate to supplement the diet, and to help assure that nutritional deficiencies of these vitamins will not develop. Thus, in a single easy-to-use preparation, children obtain ten essential vitamins and the important mineral, fluoride. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that children up to age 16, in areas where drinking water contains less than optimal levels of fluoride, receive daily fluoride supplements. Children using Multivitamin with Fluoride 0 . 5 mg Chewable Tablets regularly should receive semiannual dental examinations. The regular brushing of teeth and attention to good oral hygiene practices are also essential. Multivitamin with Fluoride Chewable Tablets is a prescription product for the clinical dietary management of the metabolic processes of caries prophylaxis and provides supplementation of the diet with ten essential vitamins. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Folarex is a prescription multivitamin/multi-mineral dietary supplement formulated for the clinical dietary management of a suboptimal nutritional status in patients where advanced folate, vitamin B supplementation, and maintenance of good health is needed. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ferralet ® 90 is indicated for the treatment of all anemias that are responsive to oral iron therapy. These include: hypochromic anemia associated with pregnancy, chronic and/or acute blood loss, metabolic disease, postsurgical convalescence, and dietary needs. Multivitamin with Fluoride 0.25 mg Chewable Tablets provide 0.25 mg fluoride in tablet form for children 4-6years of age in areas where the drinking water contains 0.3 through 0.6 ppm of fluoride. Multivitamin with Fluoride 0.25 mg Chewable Tablets supply significant amounts of Vitamins A, C, D, E, thiamine, riboflavin, niacin, vitamin B6, vitamin B12, and folate to supplement the diet, and to help assure that nutritional deficiencies of these vitamins will not develop. 25 mg Chewable Tablets regularly should receive semiannual dental examinations. INDICATIONS: PRENATE ® Restore is a multivitamin/multimineral fatty acid dietary supplement indicated for use in improving the nutritional status of women throughout pregnancy and in the postnatal period for both lactating and nonlactating mothers. PRENATE ® Restore can also be beneficial in improving the nutritional status of women prior to conception. INDICATIONS: Chromagen™ is a multivitamin/multimineral dietary supplement indicated for use in improving the nutritional status of patients with iron deficiency.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Before, during and/or after pregnancy, one softgel daily or as directed by a physician. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Avoid using the intravenous route. Use of this product intravenously will result in almost all of the vitamin being lost in the urine. Pernicious Anemia Parenteral vitamin B 12 is the recommended treatment and will be required for the remainder of the patient's life. The oral form is not dependable. A dose of 100 mcg daily for 6 or 7 days should be administered by intramuscular or deep subcutaneous injection. If there is clinical improvement and if a reticulocyte response is observed, the same amount may be given on alternate days for seven doses, then every 3 to 4 days for another 2 to 3 weeks. By this time hematologic values should have become normal. This regimen should be followed by 100 mcg monthly for life. Folic acid should be administered concomitantly if needed. Patients with Normal Intestinal Absorption Where the oral route is not deemed adequate, initial treatment similar to that for patients with pernicious anemia may be indicated depending on the severity of the deficiency. Chronic treatment should be with an oral B 12 preparation. If other vitamin deficiencies are present, they should be treated. Schilling Test The flushing dose is 1,000 mcg. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Pernicious Anemia: Parenteral vitamin B12 is the recommended treatment and will be required for the remainder ofthe patient's life. A dose of 100 mcg daily for 6 or 7 days should be administered byintramuscular or deep subcutaneous injection. If there is clinical improvement and if a reticulocyte response is observed, the same amount may be given on alternate days for seven doses, then every 3 to 4 days for another 2 to 3weeks. Patients with Normal Intestinal Absorption : Where the oral route is not deemed adequate, initial treatment similarto that for patients with pernicious anemia may be indicated depending on the severity of the deficiency. Chronic treatment should be with an oral B12 preparation. Schilling Test: The flushing dose is 1,000 mcg. Pernicious Anemia: Parenteral vitamin B 12 is the recommended treatment and will be required for the remainder of the patient's life. Patients with Normal Intestinal Absorption: Where the oral route is not deemed adequate, initial treatment similar to that for patients with pernicious anemia may be indicated depending on the severity of the deficiency. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One tablet daily, to be dissolved in the mouth or chewed before swallowing. Do not give a chewable tablet to a child younger than 4 years old. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One tablet daily or as directed by a physician. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: One softgel daily, or as directed by a physician.
Warnings: WARNING: Ingestion of more than 3 grams of omega-3 fatty acids (such as DHA) per day has been shown to have potential antithrombotic effects, including an increased bleeding time and International Normalized Ratio (INR). Administration of omega-3 fatty acids should be avoided in patients taking anticoagulants and in those known to have an inherited or acquired predisposition to bleeding. WARNINGS Patients with early Leber's disease (hereditary optic nerve atrophy) who were treated with cyanocobalamin suffered severe and swift optic atrophy. Hypokalemia and sudden death may occur in severe megaloblastic anemia which is treated intensely. Anaphylactic shock and death have been reported after parenteral vitamin B 12 administration. An intradermal test dose is recommended before cyanocobalamin injection is administered to patients suspected of being sensitive to this drug. This product contains benzyl alcohol. Benzyl alcohol has been reported to be associated with a fatal "Gasping Syndrome" in premature infants. This product contains aluminum that may be toxic. Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired. Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature, and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions, which contain aluminum. Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function, including premature neonates, who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg/kg/day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity. Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration. Anaphylactic shock and death have been reported after parenteral vitamin B12 administration. An intradermal test dose is recommended before Cyanocobalamin Injection, USP is administered to patients suspected of being sensitive to this drug. Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function, including premature neonates, who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg/kg/day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervoussystem and bone toxicity. WARNING Keep out of the reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately. CAUTION Do not eat or drink dairy products within one hour of fluoride administration. Should be chewed. This product, as all chewable tablets, is not recommended for children under age 4 due to risk of choking. WARNINGS WARNING Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is a leading cause of fatal poising in children under 6. KEEP THIS PRODUCT OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN . In the case of accidental overdose, ca l a doctor or poison control center immediately. WARNING Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where vitamin B 12 is deficient. KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS: This product is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients. CONTRAINDICATIONS Sensitivity to cobalt and/or vitamin B 12 is a contraindication. CONTRAINDICATIONS Sensitivity to cobalt and/or vitamin B12 is a contraindication. CONTRAINDICATIONS Folarex is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients. CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients. Hemolytic anemia, hemochromatosis, and hemosiderosis are contraindications to iron therapy. CONTRAINDICATIONS: PRENATE ® Restore is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients. CONTRAINDICATIONS : Chromagen™ is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients.

=== DAPSONE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dermatitis herpetiformis: (D.H.) Leprosy: All forms of leprosy except for cases of proven Dapsone resistance. INDICATIONS & USAGE Dermatitis herpetiformis: (D.H.) Leprosy: All forms of leprosy except for cases of proven Dapsone resistance. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ACZONE ® (dapsone) Gel, 7.5%, is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 9 years of age and older. ACZONE ® Gel, 7.5%, is a sulfone indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 9 years of age and older ( 1 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dapsone gel, 7.5%, is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 9 years of age and older. Dapsone gel, 7.5%, is a sulfone indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 9 years of age and older (1) . Dapsone gel, 7.5%, is a sulfone indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 9 years of age and older ( 1 ).
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dermatitis herpetiformis The dosage should be individually titrated starting in adults with 50 mg daily and correspondingly smaller doses in children. If full control is not achieved within the range of 50 to 300 mg daily, higher doses may be tried. Dosage should be reduced to a minimum maintenance level as soon as possible. In responsive patients there is a prompt reduction in pruritus followed by clearance of skin lesions. There is no effect on the gastrointestinal component of the disease. Dapsone levels are influenced by acetylation rates. Patients with high acetylation rates, or who are receiving treatment affecting acetylation may require an adjustment in dosage. A strict gluten free diet is an option for the patient to elect, permitting many to reduce or eliminate the need for Dapsone; the average time for dosage reduction is 8 months with a range of 4 months to 2 1/2 years and for dosage elimination 29 months with a range of 6 months to 9 years. Leprosy In order to reduce secondary Dapsone resistance, the WHO Expert Committee on Leprosy and the USPHS at Carville, LA, recommended that Dapsone should be commenced in combination with one or more anti-leprosy drugs. In the multidrug program Dapsone should be maintained at the full dosage of 100 mg daily without interruption (with corresponding smaller doses for children) and provided to all patients who have sensitive organisms with new or recrudescent disease or who have not yet completed a two year course of Dapsone monotherapy. For advice and other drugs, the USPHS at Carville, LA (1-800-642-2477) should be contacted. Before using other drugs consult appropriate product labeling. In bacteriologically negative tuberculoid and indeterminate disease, the recommendation is the coadministration of Dapsone 100 mg daily with six months of Rifampin 600 mg daily. Under WHO, daily Rifampin may be replaced by 600 mg Rifampin monthly, if supervised. The Dapsone is continued until all signs of clinical activity are controlled - usually after an additional six months. Then Dapsone should be continued for an additional three years for tuberculoid and indeterminate patients and for five years for borderline tuberculoid patients. In lepromatous and borderline lepromatous patients, the recommendation is the coadministration of Dapsone 100 mg daily with two years of Rifampin 600 mg daily. Under WHO daily Rifampin may be replaced by 600 mg Rifampin monthly, if supervised. One may elect the concurrent administration of a third anti-leprosy drug, usually either Clofazamine 50 to 100 mg daily or Ethionamide 250 to 500 mg daily. Dapsone 100 mg daily is continued 3 to 10 years until all signs of clinical activity are controlled with skin scrapings and biopsies negative for one year. Dapsone should then be continued for an additional 10 years for borderline patients and for life for lepromatous patients. Secondary Dapsone resistance should be suspected whenever a lepromatous or borderline lepromatous patient receiving Dapsone treatment relapses clinically and bacteriologically, solid staining bacilli being found in the smears taken from the new active lesions. If such cases show no response to regular and supervised Dapsone therapy within three to six months or good compliance for the past 3 to 6 months can be assured, Dapsone resistance should be considered confirmed clinically. Determination of drug sensitivity using the mouse footpad method is recommended and, after prior arrangement, is available without charge from the USPHS, Carville, LA. Patients with proven Dapsone resistance should be treated with other drugs. LEPROSY REACTIONAL STATES Abrupt changes in clinical activity occur in leprosy with any effective treatment and are known as reactional states. The majority can be classified into two groups. The "Reversal" reaction (Type 1) may occur in borderline or tuberculoid leprosy patients often soon after chemotherapy is started. The mechanism is presumed to result from a reduction in the antigenic load: the patient is able to mount an enhanced delayed hypersensitivity response to residual infection leading to swelling ("Reversal") of existing skin and nerve lesions. If severe, or if neuritis is present, large doses of steroids should always be used. If severe, the patient should be hospitalized. In general anti-leprosy treatment is continued and therapy to suppress the reaction is indicated such as analgesics, steroids, or surgical decompression of swollen nerve trunks. USPHS at Carville, LA should be contacted for advice in management. Erythema nodosum leprosum (ENL) (lepromatous reaction) (Type 2 reaction) occurs mainly in lepromatous patients and small numbers of borderline patients. Approximately 50% of treated patients show this reaction in the first year. The principal clinical features are fever and tender erythematous skin nodules sometimes associated with malaise, neuritis, orchitis, albuminuria, joint swelling, iritis, epistaxis or depression. Skin lesions can become pustular and/or ulcerate. Histologically there is a vasculitis with an intense polymorphonuclear infiltrate. Elevated circulating immune complexes are considered to be the mechanism of reaction. If severe, patients should be hospitalized. In general, anti-leprosy treatment is continued. Analgesics, steroids, and other agents available from USPHS, Carville, LA, are used to suppress the reaction. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dermatitis herpetiformis: The dosage should be individually titrated starting in adults with 50 mg daily and correspondingly smaller doses in children. If full control is not achieved within the range of 50-300 mg daily, higher doses may be tried. Leprosy: In order to reduce secondary Dapsone resistance, the WHO Expert Committee on Leprosy and the USPHS at Carville, LA, recommended that Dapsone should be commenced in combination with one or more anti-leprosy drugs. In lepromatous and borderline lepromatous patients, the recommendation is the co-administration of Dapsone 100 mg daily with two years of Rifampin 600 mg daily. One may elect the concurrent administration of a third anti-leprosy drug, usually either Clofazamine 50-100 mg daily or Ethionamide 250-500 mg daily. Dapsone 100 mg daily is continued 3-10 years until all signs of clinical activity are controlled with skin scrapings and biopsies negative for one year. If such cases show no response to regular and supervised Dapsone therapy within three to six months or good compliance for the past 3-6 months can be assured, Dapsone resistance should be considered confirmed clinically. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Dermatitis herpetiformis: The dosage should be individually titrated starting in adults with 50 mg daily and correspondingly smaller doses in children. If full control is not achieved within the range of 50 - 300 mg daily, higher doses may be tried. For advice and other drugs, the USPHS at Carville, LA (1- 800-642-2477) should be contacted. The Dapsone is continued until all signs of clinical activity are controlled usually after an additional six months. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For topical use only. Not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. After the skin is gently washed and patted dry, apply approximately a pea-sized amount of ACZONE Gel, 7.5%, in a thin layer to the entire face once daily. In addition, a thin layer may be applied to other affected areas once daily. Rub in ACZONE Gel, 7.5%, gently and completely. If there is no improvement after 12 weeks, treatment with ACZONE Gel, 7.5% should be reassessed. Apply once daily ( 2 ). Apply approximately a pea-sized amount of ACZONE Gel, 7.5%, in a thin layer to the entire face. A thin layer can also be applied to other affected areas ( 2 ). If there is no improvement after 12 weeks, treatment with ACZONE Gel, 7.5% should be reassessed ( 2 ). For topical use only. Not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use ( 2 ). After the skin is gently washed and patted dry, apply approximately a pea-sized amount of dapsone gel, 7.5%, in a thin layer to the entire face once daily. Rub in dapsone gel, 7.5%, gently and completely. If there is no improvement after 12 weeks, treatment with dapsone gel, 7.5% should be reassessed. Apply once daily (2) . Apply approximately a pea-sized amount of dapsone gel, 7.5%, in a thin layer to the entire face. A thin layer can also be applied to other affected areas (2) . If there is no improvement after 12 weeks, treatment with dapsone gel, 7.5% should be reassessed (2) . Not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use (2) . If there is no improvement after 12 weeks, treatment with dapsone gel, 7.5% should be reassessed ( 2 ).
Warnings: WARNINGS The patient should be warned to respond to the presence of clinical signs such as sore throat, fever, pallor, purpura or jaundice. Deaths associated with the administration of Dapsone have been reported from agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia and other blood dyscrasias. Complete blood counts should be done frequently in patients receiving Dapsone. The FDA Dermatology Advisory Committee recommended that, when feasible, counts should be done weekly for the first month, monthly for six months and semi-annually thereafter. If a significant reduction in leucocytes, platelets or hemopoiesis is noted, Dapsone should be discontinued and the patient followed intensively. Folic acid antagonists have similar effects and may increase the incidence of hematologic reactions; if coadministered with Dapsone the patient should be monitored more frequently. Patients on weekly pyrimethamine and Dapsone have developed agranulocytosis during the second and third month of therapy. Severe anemia should be treated prior to initiation of therapy and hemoglobin monitored. Hemolysis and methemoglobin may be poorly tolerated by patients with severe cardiopulmonary disease. Cutaneous reactions, especially bullous, include exfoliative dermatitis and are probably one of the most serious, though rare, complications of sulfone therapy. They are directly due to drug sensitization. Such reactions include toxic erythema, erythema multiforme, toxic epidermal necrolysis, morbilliform and scarlatiniform reactions, urticaria and erythema nodosum. If new or toxic dermatologic reactions occur, sulfone therapy must be promptly discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted. Leprosy reactional states, including cutaneous, are not hypersensitivity reactions to Dapsone and do not require discontinuation. See special section. Folic acid antagonists have similar effects and may increase the incidence of hematologic reactions; if co-administered with Dapsone the patient should be monitored more frequently.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to Dapsone and/or its derivatives. CONTRAINDICATION Hypersensitivity to Dapsone and/or its derivatives. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None. None ( 4 ). None (4) . None ( 4 )
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Rifampin lowers Dapsone levels 7 to 10-fold by accelerating plasma clearance; in leprosy this reduction has not required a change in dosage. Folic acid antagonists such as pyrimethamine may increase the likelihood of hematologic reactions. A modest interaction has been reported for patients receiving 100 mg Dapsone daily in combination with trimethoprim 5 mg/kg q6h. On Day 7, the serum Dapsone levels averaged 2.1 ± 1.0 mcg/mL in comparison to 1.5 ± 0.5 mcg/mL for Dapsone alone. On Day 7, trimethoprim levels averaged 18.4 ± 5.2 mcg/mL in comparison to 12.4 ± 4.5 mcg/mL for patients not receiving Dapsone. Thus, there is a mutual interaction between Dapsone and trimethoprim in which each raises the level of the other about 1.5 times. A crossover study 1 designed to assess the potential of a drug interaction between Dapsone, 100 mg/day and trimethoprim, 200 mg every 12 hours, in eight asymptomatic HIV positive volunteers (average CD4 count 524 cells/mm 3 ) demonstrated that there was not a significant drug intreraction between Dapsone and trimethoprim. However, an earlier report 2 also by Lee et al, in 78 HIV infected patients with acute Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, receiving Dapsone, 100 mg/day and higher trimethoprim dose, 20 mg/kg/day, demonstrated that the serum levels of Dapsone were increased by 40% and trimethoprim levels were increased by 48% when the drugs were administered concurrently. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with ACZONE Gel, 7.5%. Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX) increases the systemic level of dapsone and its metabolites ( 7.1 ). Topical benzoyl peroxide used at the same time as ACZONE Gel, 7.5% may result in temporary local yellow or orange skin discoloration ( 7.2 ). 7.1 Trimethoprim-Sulfamethoxazole A drug-drug interaction study evaluated the effect of the use of dapsone gel, 5% in combination with double strength (160 mg/800 mg) trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX). During co-administration, systemic levels of TMP and SMX were essentially unchanged, however, levels of dapsone and its metabolites increased in the presence of TMP/SMX. The systemic exposure from ACZONE Gel, 7.5% is expected to be about 1% of that from the 100 mg oral dose, even when co-administered with TMP/SMX. 7.2 Topical Benzoyl Peroxide Topical application of dapsone gel followed by benzoyl peroxide in patients with acne vulgaris may result in a temporary local yellow or orange discoloration of the skin and facial hair. 7.3 Drug Interactions with Oral Dapsone Certain concomitant medications (such as rifampin, anticonvulsants, St. John’s wort) may increase the formation of dapsone hydroxylamine, a metabolite of dapsone associated with hemolysis. With oral dapsone treatment, folic acid antagonists such as pyrimethamine have been noted to possibly increase the likelihood of hematologic reactions. 7.4 Concomitant Use with Drugs that Induce Methemoglobinemia Concomitant use of ACZONE Gel, 7.5% with drugs that induce methemoglobinemia such as sulfonamides, acetaminophen, acetanilide, aniline dyes, benzocaine, chloroquine, dapsone, naphthalene, nitrates and nitrites, nitrofurantoin, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, pamaquine, para‐aminosalicylic acid, phenacetin, phenobarbital, phenytoin, primaquine, and quinine may increase the risk for developing methemoglobinemia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Drug Interactions: Rifampin lowers Dapsone levels 7 to 10-fold by accelerating plasma clearance; in leprosy this reduction has not required a change in dosage. On Day 7, the serum Dapsone levels averaged 2.1 ± 1.0 μg/mL in comparison to 1.5 ± 0.5 μg/mL for Dapsone alone. On Day 7, trimethoprim levels averaged 18.4 ± 5.2 μg/mL in comparison to 12.4 ± 4.5 μg/mL for patients not receiving Dapsone. A crossover study1 designed to assess the potential of a drug interaction between Dapsone, 100 mg/day and trimethoprim, 200 mg every 12 hours, in eight asymptomatic HIV positive volunteers (average CD4 count 524 cells/mm3) demonstrated that there was not a significant drug intreraction between Dapsone and trimethoprim. However, an earlier report2 also by Lee et al, in 78 HIV infected patients with acute Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, receiving Dapsone, 100 mg/day and higher trimethoprim dose, 20 mg/kg/day, demonstrated that the serum levels of Dapsone were increased by 40% and trimethoprim levels were increased by 48% when the drugs were administered concurrently. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug-drug interaction studies were conducted with dapsone gel, 7.5%. Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX) increases the systemic level of dapsone and its metabolites (7.1) . Topical benzoyl peroxide used at the same time as dapsone gel, 7.5% may result in temporary local yellow or orange skin discoloration (7.2) . The systemic exposure from dapsone gel, 7.5% is expected to be about 1% of that from the 100 mg oral dose, even when co-administered with TMP/SMX. 7.4 Concomitant Use with Drugs that Induce Methemoglobinemia Concomitant use of dapsone gel, 7.5% with drugs that induce methemoglobinemia such as sulfonamides, acetaminophen, acetanilide, aniline dyes, benzocaine, chloroquine, dapsone, naphthalene, nitrates and nitrites, nitrofurantoin, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, pamaquine, para‐aminosalicylic acid, phenacetin, phenobarbital, phenytoin, primaquine, and quinine may increase the risk for developing methemoglobinemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Topical benzoyl peroxide used at the same time as dapsone gel, 7.5% may result in temporary local yellow or orange skin discoloration ( 7.2 ). John's wort) may increase the formation of dapsone hydroxylamine, a metabolite of dapsone associated with hemolysis. 7.4 Concomitant Use with Drugs that Induce Methemoglobinemia Concomitant use of dapsone gel, 7.5% with drugs that induce methemoglobinemia such as sulfonamides, acetaminophen, acetanilide, aniline dyes, benzocaine, chloroquine, dapsone, naphthalene, nitrates and nitrites, nitrofurantoin, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, pamaquine, para-aminosalicylic acid, phenacetin, phenobarbital, phenytoin, primaquine, and quinine may increase the risk for developing methemoglobinemia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. 7.4 Concomitant Use with Drugs that Induce Methemoglobinemia Concomitant use of dapsone gel, 7.5% with drugs that induce methemoglobinemia such as sulfonamides, acetaminophen, acetanilide, aniline dyes, benzocaine, chloroquine, dapsone, naphthalene, nitrates and nitrites, nitrofurantoin, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, pamaquine, para‐aminosalicylic acid, phenacetin, phenobarbital, phenytoin, primaquine, and quinine may increase the risk for developing methemoglobinemia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] .

=== EMTRICITABINE AND TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL FUMARATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE HIV-1 Treatment ( 1.1 ) Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablet is a two-drug combination of emtricitabine (FTC) and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF), both HIV-1 nucleoside analog reverse transcriptase inhibitors, and is indicated: • in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 17 kg. HIV-1 PrEP ( 1.2 ): • Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablet is indicated in at-risk adults and adolescents weighing at least 35 kg for pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) to reduce the risk of sexually acquired HIV-1 infection. Individuals must have a negative HIV-1 test immediately prior to initiating emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablet for HIV-1 PrEP. 1.1 Treatment of HIV-1 Infection Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablet is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 17 kg [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . 1.2 HIV-1 Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablet is indicated in at-risk adults and adolescents weighing at least 35 kg for pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) to reduce the risk of sexually acquired HIV-1 infection. Individuals must have a negative HIV-1 test immediately prior to initiating emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets for HIV-1 PrEP [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE HIV-1 Treatment ( 1.1 ) Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablet is a two-drug combination of emtricitabine (FTC) and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF), both HIV-1 nucleoside analog reverse transcriptase inhibitors, and is indicated: in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 35 kg. HIV-1 PrEP ( 1.2 ): Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablet is indicated in at-risk adults and adolescents weighing at least 35 kg for pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) to reduce the risk of sexually acquired HIV-1 infection. 1.1 Treatment of HIV-1 Infection Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets are indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 35 kg [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . 1.2 HIV-1 Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets are indicated in at-risk adults and adolescents weighing at least 35 kg for pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) to reduce the risk of sexually acquired HIV-1 infection. Individuals must have a negative HIV-1 test immediately prior to initiating emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate for HIV-1 PrEP [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets are indicated as a complete regimen or in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 40 kg. Efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablet is a three-drug combination of efavirenz (EFV), a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, and emtricitabine (FTC) and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF), both HIV-1 nucleoside analog reverse transcriptase inhibitors, and is indicated as a complete regimen or in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 40 kg. (1) 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE HIV-1 Treatment ( 1.1 ) Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Tablets is a two-drug combination of emtricitabine (FTC) and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF), both HIV-1 nucleoside analog reverse transcriptase inhibitors, and is indicated: • in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 17 kg. HIV-1 PrEP ( 1.2 ): • Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate is indicated in at-risk adults and adolescents weighing at least 35 kg for pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) to reduce the risk of sexually acquired HIV-1 infection. Individuals must have a negative HIV-1 test immediately prior to initiating emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate for HIV-1 PrEP. 1.1 Treatment of HIV-1 Infection Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets are indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 17 kg [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. 1.2 HIV-1 Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis(PrEP) Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets are indicated in at-risk adults and adolescents weighing at least 35 kg for pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) to reduce the risk of sexually acquired HIV-1 infection. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE HIV-1 Treatment ( 1.1 ) Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets is a two-drug combination of emtricitabine (FTC) and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF), both HIV-1 nucleoside analog reverse transcriptase inhibitors, and is indicated: in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 17 kg. HIV-1 PrEP ( 1.2 ): Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets are indicated in at-risk adults and adolescents weighing at least 35 kg for pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) to reduce the risk of sexually acquired HIV-1 infection. Individuals must have a negative HIV-1 test immediately prior to initiating emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets for HIV-1 PrEP. 1.1 Treatment of HIV-1 Infection Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets are indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 17 kg [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablet is indicated as a complete regimen or in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 40 kg. Efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets is a three-drug combination of efavirenz (EFV), a nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, and emtricitabine (FTC) and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF), both HIV-1 nucleoside analog reverse transcriptase inhibitors, and is indicated as a complete regimen or in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 40 kg. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE TRUVADA is a combination of EMTRIVA and VIREAD, both nucleoside analog HIV-1 reverse transcriptase inhibitors. TRUVADA is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 17 kg. ( 1 ) TRUVADA is indicated in combination with safer sex practices for pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) to reduce the risk of sexually acquired HIV-1 in adults at high risk. ( 1 ) 1.1 Treatment of HIV-1 Infection TRUVADA ® , a combination of EMTRIVA ® and VIREAD ® , is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 17 kg [see Dosage and Administration (2) and Clinical Studies (14) ] . The following points should be considered when initiating therapy with TRUVADA for the treatment of HIV-1 infection:The following points should be considered when initiating therapy with TRUVADA for the treatment of HIV-1 infection: It is not recommended that TRUVADA be used as a component of a triple nucleoside regimen. TRUVADA should not be coadministered with ATRIPLA ® , COMPLERA ® , EMTRIVA, GENVOYA ® , ODEFSEY ® , STRIBILD ® , VIREAD or lamivudine-containing products [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . In treatment experienced patients, the use of TRUVADA should be guided by laboratory testing and treatment history [see Microbiology (12.4) ] . 1.2 Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis TRUVADA is indicated in combination with safer sex practices for pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) to reduce the risk of sexually acquired HIV-1 in adults at high risk. This indication is based on clinical trials in men who have sex with men (MSM) at high risk for HIV-1 infection and in heterosexual serodiscordant couples [see Clinical Studies (14.2 , 14.3) ] . When considering TRUVADA for pre-exposure prophylaxis the following factors may help to identify individuals at high risk: has partner(s) known to be HIV-1 infected, or engages in sexual activity within a high prevalence area or social network and one or more of the following: inconsistent or no condom use diagnosis of sexually transmitted infections exchange of sex for commodities (such as money, food, shelter, or drugs) use of illicit drugs or alcohol dependence incarceration partner(s) of unknown HIV-1 status with any of the factors listed above When prescribing TRUVADA for pre-exposure prophylaxis, healthcare providers must: prescribe TRUVADA as part of a comprehensive prevention strategy because TRUVADA is not always effective in preventing the acquisition of HIV-1 infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] ; counsel all uninfected individuals to strictly adhere to the recommended TRUVADA dosing schedule because the effectiveness of TRUVADA in reducing the risk of acquiring HIV-1 was strongly correlated with adherence as demonstrated by measurable drug levels in clinical trials [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] ; confirm a negative HIV-1 test immediately prior to initiating TRUVADA for a PrEP indication. If clinical symptoms consistent with acute viral infection are present and recent (<1 month) exposures are suspected, delay starting PrEP for at least one month and reconfirm HIV-1 status or use a test approved by the FDA as an aid in the diagnosis of HIV-1 infection, including acute or primary HIV-1 infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] ; and screen for HIV-1 infection at least once every 3 months while taking TRUVADA for PrEP.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Testing: Prior to or when initiating emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets test for hepatitis B virus infection. Prior to initiation and during use of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets, on a clinically appropriate schedule, assess serum creatinine, estimated creatinine clearance, urine glucose, and urine protein in all individuals. In individuals with chronic kidney disease, also assess serum phosphorus. ( 2.1 ) • HIV-1 Screening: Screen all individuals for HIV-1 infection immediately prior to initiating emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets for HIV-1 PrEP and at least once every 3 months while taking emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets, and upon diagnosis of any other sexually transmitted infections (STIs). ( 2.2 ) Treatment of HIV-1 Infection • Recommended dosage in adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 35 kg: One emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablet (containing 200 mg of FTC and 300 mg of TDF) once daily taken orally with or without food. ( 2.3 ) • Recommended dosage in pediatric patients weighing at least 17 kg: One emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate low-strength tablet (100 mg/150 mg, 133 mg/200 mg, or 167 mg/250 mg based on body weight) once daily taken orally with or without food. ( 2.4 ) • Recommended dosage in renally impaired HIV-1 infected adult patients: o Creatinine clearance (CrCl) 30 to 49 mL/min: 1 tablet every 48 hours. ( 2.6 ) o CrCl below 30 mL/min or hemodialysis: Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets are not recommended. ( 2.6 ) HIV-1 Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) • Recommended dosage in HIV-1 uninfected adults and adolescents weighing at least 35 kg: One emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablet (containing 200 mg of FTC and 300 mg of TDF) once daily taken orally with or without food. ( 2.5 ) • Recommended dosage in renally impaired HIV-uninfected individuals: emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is not recommended in HIV-uninfected individuals if CrCl is below 60 mL/min. ( 2.6 ) 2.1 Testing Prior to Initiation of Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Tablets for Treatment of HIV-1 Infection or for HIV-1 PrEP Prior to or when initiating emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets, test individuals for hepatitis B virus infection [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Prior to initiation, and during use of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets, on a clinically appropriate schedule, assess serum creatinine, estimated creatinine clearance, urine glucose, and urine protein in all individuals. In individuals with chronic kidney disease, also assess serum phosphorus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . 2.2 HIV-1 Screening for Individuals Receiving Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Tablets for HIV-1 PrEP Screen all individuals for HIV-1 infection immediately prior to initiating emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets for HIV-1 PrEP and at least once every 3 months while taking emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets, and upon diagnosis of any other sexually transmitted infections (STIs) [see Indications and Usage ( 1.2 ), Contraindications ( 4 ), and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. If recent (<1 month) exposures to HIV-1 are suspected or clinical symptoms consistent with acute HIV-1 infection are present, use a test approved or cleared by the FDA as an aid in the diagnosis of acute or primary HIV-1 infection [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ), and Clinical Studies ( 14.3 and 14.4 )]. 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Treatment of HIV-1 Infection in Adults and Pediatric Patients Weighing at Least 35 kg Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablet is a two-drug fixed dose combination product containing emtricitabine (FTC) and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF). The recommended dosage of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets in adults and in pediatric patients weighing at least 35 kg is one tablet (containing 200 mg of FTC and 300 mg of TDF) once daily taken orally with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.4 Recommended Dosage for Treatment of HIV-1 Infection in Pediatric Patients Weighing at Least 17 kg and Able to Swallow a Tablet The recommended oral dosage of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets for pediatric patients weighing at least 17 kg and who can swallow a tablet is presented in Table 1. Tablets should be taken once daily with or without food. Weight should be monitored periodically and the emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets dose adjusted accordingly. Table 1 Dosing for Treatment of HIV-1 Infection in Pediatric Patients Weighing 17 kg to less than 35 kg Body Weight (kg) Dosing ofEmtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Tablets (FTC/TDF) 17 to less than 22 one 100 mg /150 mg tablet once daily 22 to less than 28 one 133 mg /200 mg tablet once daily 28 to less than 35 one 167 mg /250 mg tablet once daily 2.5 Recommended Dosage for HIV-1 PrEP in Adults and Adolescents Weighing at Least 35 kg The dosage of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets for HIV-1 PrEP is one tablet (containing 200 mg of FTC and 300 mg of TDF) once daily taken orally with or without food in HIV-1 uninfected adults and adolescents weighing at least 35 kg [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.6 Dosage Adjustment in Individuals with Renal Impairment Treatment of HIV-1 Infection Table 2 provides dosage interval adjustment for patients with renal impairment. No dosage adjustment is necessary for HIV-1 infected patients with mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance 50 to 80 mL/min). The safety and effectiveness of the dosing interval adjustment recommendations in patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance 30 to 49 mL/min) have not been clinically evaluated; therefore, clinical response to treatment and renal function should be closely monitored in these patients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . No data are available to make dosage recommendations in pediatric patients with renal impairment. Table 2 Dosage Interval Adjustment for HIV-1 Infected Adult Patients with Altered Creatinine Clearance Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) a ≥50 30 to 49 <30 (Including Patients Requiring Hemodialysis) Recommended Dosing Interval Every 24 hours Every 48 hours Emtricitabine and Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets are not recommended. a. Calculated using ideal (lean) body weight HIV-1 PrEP Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets for HIV-1 PrEP are not recommended in HIV-1 uninfected individuals with estimated creatinine clearance below 60 mL/min [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. If a decrease in estimated creatinine clearance is observed in uninfected individuals while using emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets for HIV-1 PrEP, evaluate potential causes and re-assess potential risks and benefits of continued use [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Testing: Prior to or when initiating emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate test for hepatitis B virus infection. Prior to initiation and during use of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, on a clinically appropriate schedule, assess serum creatinine, estimated creatinine clearance, urine glucose, and urine protein in all individuals. ( 2.1 ) HIV-1 Screening: Screen all individuals for HIV-1 infection immediately prior to initiating emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate for HIV-1 PrEP and at least once every 3 months while taking emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, and upon diagnosis of any other sexually transmitted infections (STIs). ( 2.2 ) Treatment of HIV-1 Infection Recommended dosage in adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 35 kg: One emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablet (containing 200 mg of FTC and 300 mg of TDF) once daily taken orally with or without food. ( 2.3 ) Recommended dosage in renally impaired HIV-1 infected adult patients: Creatinine clearance (CrCl) 30-49 mL/min: 1 tablet every 48 hours. ( 2.6 ) CrCl below 30 mL/min or hemodialysis: Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets are not recommended. ( 2.6 ) HIV-1 Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Recommended dosage in HIV-1 uninfected adults and adolescents weighing at least 35 kg: One emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablet (containing 200 mg of FTC and 300 mg of TDF) once daily taken orally with or without food. ( 2.5 ) Recommended dosage in renally impaired HIV-uninfected individuals: Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablet is not recommended in HIV-uninfected individuals if CrCl is below 60 mL/min. In individuals with chronic kidney disease, also assess serum phosphorus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Treatment of HIV-1 Infection in Adults and Pediatric Patients Weighing at Least 35 kg Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate are a two-drug fixed dose combination product containing emtricitabine (FTC) and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF). 2.5 Recommended Dosage for HIV-1 PrEP in Adults and Adolescents Weighing at Least 35 kg The dosage of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets for HIV-1 PrEP is one tablet (containing 200 mg of FTC and 300 mg of TDF) once daily taken orally with or without food in HIV-1 uninfected adults and adolescents weighing at least 35 kg [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . No dosage adjustment is necessary for HIV-1 infected patients with mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance 50–80 mL/min). The safety and effectiveness of the dosing interval adjustment recommendations in patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance 30–49 mL/min) have not been clinically evaluated; therefore, clinical response to treatment and renal function should be closely monitored in these patients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Table 2 Dosage Interval Adjustment for HIV-1 Infected Adult Patients with Altered Creatinine Clearance a. Calculated using ideal (lean) body weight Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) a ≥ 50 30–49 <30 (Including Patients Requiring Hemodialysis) Recommended Dosing Interval Every 24 hours Every 48 hours Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets are not recommended. HIV-1 PrEP Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate for HIV-1 PrEP is not recommended in HIV-1 uninfected individuals with estimated creatinine clearance below 60 mL/min [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . If a decrease in estimated creatinine clearance is observed in uninfected individuals while using emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate for HIV-1 PrEP, evaluate potential causes and re-assess potential risks and benefits of continued use [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Testing: Consult Full Prescribing Information for important testing recommendations prior to initiation and during treatment with efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets. (2.1) Recommended dosage in adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 40 kg: One tablet once daily taken orally on an empty stomach, preferably at bedtime. (2.2) Renal impairment: Not recommended in patients with estimated creatinine clearance below 50 mL/min. (2.3) Hepatic impairment: Not recommended in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment. (2.4) Dosage adjustment with rifampin coadministration: An additional 200 mg/day of efavirenz is recommended for patients weighing 50 kg or more. (2.5) 2.1 Testing Prior to Initiation and During Treatment with Efavirenz, Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Tablets Prior to or when initiating efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets, test patients for hepatitis B virus infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Prior to initiation and during use of efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets, on a clinically appropriate schedule, assess serum creatinine, estimated creatinine clearance, urine glucose and urine protein in all patients. In patients with chronic kidney disease, also assess serum phosphorus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Monitor hepatic function prior to and during treatment with efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Perform pregnancy testing before initiation of efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets are in adolescents and adults of childbearing potential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) , Use in Specific Populations (8.1 , 8.3) ]. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Adults and Pediatric Patients Weighing at Least 40 kg Efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablet is a three-drug fixed-dose combination product containing 600 mg of efavirenz (EFV), 200 mg of emtricitabine (FTC), and 300 mg of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF). The recommended dosage of efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets in adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 40 kg is one tablet once daily taken orally on an empty stomach. Dosing at bedtime may improve the tolerability of nervous system symptoms [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.3 Not Recommended in Patients with Moderate or Severe Renal Impairment Efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets are not recommended in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (estimated creatinine clearance below 50 mL/min) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . 2.4 Not Recommended in Patients with Moderate to Severe Hepatic Impairment Efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets are not recommended in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B or C) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] . 2.5 Dosage Adjustment with Rifampin If efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets are co-administered with rifampin in patients weighing 50 kg or more, take one tablet of efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate once daily followed by one additional 200 mg per day of efavirenz [see Drug Interactions (7.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION • Testing: Prior to or when initiating emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets test for hepatitis B virus infection. ( 2.2 ) Treatment of HIV-1 Infection • Recommended dosage in adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 35 kg: One Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Tablets (containing 200 mg of FTC and 300 mg of TDF) once daily taken orally with or without food. ( 2.3 ) • Recommended dosage in pediatric patients weighing at least 17 kg: One emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets low-strength tablet (100 mg/150 mg, 133 mg/200 mg, or 167 mg/250 mg based on body weight) once daily taken orally with or without food. ( 2.6 ) o CrCl below 30 mL/min or hemodialysis: Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets is not recommended. ( 2.6 ) HIV-1 Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) • Recommended dosage in HIV-1 uninfected adults and adolescents weighing at least 35 kg: One emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets (containing 200 mg of FTC and 300 mg of TDF) once daily taken orally with or without food. ( 2.5 ) • Recommended dosage in renally impaired HIV-uninfected individuals: Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets is not recommended in HIV-uninfected individuals if CrCl is below 60 mL/min. ( 2.6 ) 2.1 Testing Prior to Initiation of Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Tablets for Treatment of HIV-1 Infection or for HIV-1 PrEP Prior to or when initiating emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets, test individuals for hepatitis B virus infection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Prior to initiation and during use of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets, on a clinically appropriate schedule, assess serum creatinine, estimated creatinine clearance, urine glucose and urine protein in all individuals. In individuals with chronic kidney disease, also assess serum phosphorus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ]. 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Treatment of HIV-1 Infection in Adults and Pediatric Patients Weighing at Least 35 kg Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets is a two-drug fixed dose combination product containing emtricitabine (FTC) and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF). The recommended dosage of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets in adults and in pediatric patients weighing at least 35 kg is one tablet (containing 200 mg of FTC and 300 mg of TDF) once daily taken orally with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Table 1 Dosing for Treatment of HIV-1 Infection in Pediatric Patients Weighing 17 kg to less than 35 kg Body Weight (kg) Dosing of E mtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Tablets (FTC/TDF) 17 to less than 22 one 100 mg /150 mg tablet once daily 22 to less than 28 one 133 mg /200 mg tablet once daily 28 to less than 35 one 167 mg /250 mg tablet once daily 2.5 Recommended Dosage for HIV-1 PrEP in Adults and Adolescents Weighing at Least 35 kg The dosage of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets for HIV-1 PrEP is one tablet (containing 200 mg of FTC and 300 mg of TDF) once daily taken orally with or without food in HIV-1 uninfected adults and adolescents weighing at least 35 kg [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. The safety and effectiveness of the dosing interval adjustment recommendations in patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance 30–49 mL/min) have not been clinically evaluated; therefore, clinical response to treatment and renal function should be closely monitored in these patients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Table 2 Dosage Interval Adjustment for HIV-1 Infected Adult Patients with Altered Creatinine Clearance Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) a Recommended Dosing Interval ≥50 30–49 <30 (Including Patients Requiring Hemodialysis) Every 24 hours Every 48 hours Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Tablets should not be recommended. a.Calculated using ideal (lean) body weight HIV-1 PrEP Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets for HIV-1 PrEP is not recommended in HIV-1 uninfected individuals with estimated creatinine clearance below 60 mL/min [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. If a decrease in estimated creatinine clearance is observed in uninfected individuals while using emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets for HIV-1 PrEP, evaluate potential causes and re-assess potential risks and benefits of continued use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Table 1 Dosing for Treatment of HIV-1 Infection in Pediatric Patients Weighing 17 kg to less than 35 kg Body Weight (kg) Dosing of Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Tablets (FTC/TDF) 17 to less than 22 one 100 mg /150 mg tablet once daily 22 to less than 28 one 133 mg /200 mg tablet once daily 28 to less than 35 one 167 mg /250 mg tablet once daily 2.5 Recommended Dosage for HIV-1 PrEP in Adults and Adolescents Weighing at Least 35 kg The dosage of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets for HIV-1 PrEP is one tablet (containing 200 mg of FTC and 300 mg of TDF) once daily taken orally with or without food in HIV-1 uninfected adults and adolescents weighing at least 35 kg [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Testing: Prior to or when initiating emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets test for hepatitis B virus infection. ( 2.1 ) HIV-1 Screening: Screen all individuals for HIV-1 infection immediately prior to initiating emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets for HIV-1 PrEP and at least once every 3 months while taking emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets, and upon diagnosis of any other sexually transmitted infections (STIs). (2.2 ) Treatment of HIV-1 Infection Recommended dosage in adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 35 kg: One emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablet (containing 200 mg of FTC and 300 mg of TDF) once daily taken orally with or without food. ( 2.3 ) Recommended dosage in pediatric patients weighing at least 17 kg: One emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate low-strength tablet (100 mg/150 mg, 133 mg/200 mg, or 167 mg/250 mg based on body weight) once daily taken orally with or without food. ( 2.4 ) Recommended dosage in renally impaired HIV-1 infected adult patients: Creatinine clearance (CrCl) 30 to 49 mL/min: 1 tablet every 48 hours. ( 2.5 ) Recommended dosage in renally impaired HIV-uninfected individuals: emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets are not recommended in HIV-uninfected individuals if CrCl is below 60 mL/min. 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Treatment of HIV-1 Infection in Adults and Pediatric Patients Weighing at Least 35 kg Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets are a two-drug fixed dose combination product containing emtricitabine (FTC) and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF). Table 1: Dosing for Treatment of HIV-1 Infection in Pediatric Patients Weighing 17 kg to less than 35 kg Body Weight (kg) Dosing of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets (FTC/TDF) 17 to less than 22 one 100 mg / 150 mg tablet once daily 22 to less than 28 one 133 mg / 200 mg tablet once daily 28 to less than 35 one 167 mg / 250 mg tablet once daily 2.5 Recommended Dosage for HIV-1 PrEP in Adults and Adolescents Weighing at Least 35 kg The dosage of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets for HIV-1 PrEP is one tablet (containing 200 mg of FTC and 300 mg of TDF) once daily taken orally with or without food in HIV-1 uninfected adults and adolescents weighing at least 35 kg [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 2: Dosage Interval Adjustment for HIV-1 Infected Adult Patients with Altered Creatinine Clearance Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) a ≥ 50 30 to 49 <30 (Including Patients Requiring Hemodialysis) Recommended Dosing Interval Every 24 hours Every 48 hours Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets are not recommended. Calculated using ideal (lean) body weight HIV-1 PrEP Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets for HIV-1 PrEP is not recommended in HIV-1 uninfected individuals with estimated creatinine clearance below 60 mL/min [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION • Testing: Consult Full Prescribing Information for important testing recommendations prior to initiation and during treatment with Efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets. ( 2.1 ) • Recommended dose in adults and pediatric patients weighing at least 40 kg: One tablet once daily taken orally on an empty stomach, preferably at bedtime. ( 2.2 ) • Renal impairment: Not recommended in patients with estimated creatinine clearance below 50 mL/min. ( 2.3 ) • Hepatic Impairment: Not recommended in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment. ( 2.4 ) • Dosage adjustment with rifampin coadministration: An additional 200 mg/day of efavirenz is recommended for patients weighing 50 kg or more. ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Testing Prior to Initiation and During Treatment with efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets Prior to or when initiating efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets, test patients for hepatitis B virus infection [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. In patients with chronic kidney disease, also assess serum phosphorus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )]. Monitor hepatic function prior to and during treatment with efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Perform pregnancy testing before initiation of efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets in adolescents and adults of childbearing potential [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 , 8.3 )]. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Adults and Pediatric Patients Weighing at Least 40 kg Efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets is a three-drug fixed-dose combination product containing 600 mg of efavirenz (EFV), 200 mg of emtricitabine (FTC), and 300 mg of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF). Dosing at bedtime may improve the tolerability of nervous system symptoms [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2.3 Not Recommended in Patients with Moderate or Severe Renal Impairment Efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets is not recommended in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (estimated creatinine clearance below 50 mL/min) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. 2.4 Not Recommended in Patients with Moderate to Severe Hepatic Impairment Efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets is not recommended in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh B or C) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )]. 2.5 Dosage Adjustment with Rifampin If efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets is co-administered with rifampin in patients weighing 50 kg or more, take one tablet of efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets once daily followed by one additional 200 mg per day of efavirenz [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Treatment of HIV-1 Infection ( 2.1 ) Recommended dose in adults and pediatric patients weighing greater than or equal to 35 kg: One TRUVADA tablet (containing 200 mg/300 mg of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) once daily taken orally with or without food. ( 2.1 ) Recommended dose in pediatric patients weighing greater than or equal to 17 kg and able to swallow a whole tablet: one TRUVADA low strength tablet (100 mg/150 mg, 133 mg/200 mg, or 167 mg/250 mg based on body weight) once daily taken orally with or without food. ( 2.2 ) Recommended dose in renally impaired HIV-1 infected adult patients: Creatinine clearance 30–49 mL/min: 1 tablet every 48 hours. ( 2.4 ) CrCl below 30 mL/min or hemodialysis: Do not use TRUVADA. ( 2.4 ) Pre-exposure Prophylaxis ( 2.3 ) Recommended dose in HIV-1 uninfected adults: One tablet (containing 200 mg/300 mg of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) once daily taken orally with or without food. ( 2.3 ) Recommended dose in renally impaired HIV-uninfected individuals: Do not use TRUVADA in HIV-uninfected individuals if CrCl is below 60 mL/min. If a decrease in CrCl is observed in uninfected individuals while using TRUVADA for PrEP, evaluate potential causes and re-assess potential risks and benefits of continued use. ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Recommended Dose for Treatment of HIV-1 Infection in Adults and Pediatric Patients Weighing 35 Kg or More The recommended dose of TRUVADA in adults and in pediatric patients with body weight greater than or equal to 35 kg is one tablet (containing 200 mg of emtricitabine and 300 mg of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) once daily taken orally with or without food. 2.2 Recommended Dose for Treatment of HIV-1 Infection in Pediatric Patients Weighing at Least 17 kg and Able to Swallow a Whole Tablet The recommended oral dose for pediatric patients weighing greater than or equal to 17 kg and who are able to swallow a whole tablet, is one TRUVADA low strength tablet (emtricitabine [FTC]/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate [TDF]) (167 mg/250 mg, 133 mg/200 mg, or 100 mg/150 mg based on body weight) taken orally once daily with or without food. The recommended oral dosage of TRUVADA low strength tablets is presented in Table 1. Weight should be monitored periodically and the TRUVADA dose adjusted accordingly. Table 1 Dosing for Pediatric Patients Weighing 17 kg to less than 35 kg using TRUVADA Low Strength Tablets Body Weight (kg) Dosing of FTC (mg)/TDF (mg) 17 to less than 22 one 100/150 tablet once daily 22 to less than 28 one 133/200 tablet once daily 28 to less than 35 one 167/250 tablet once daily 2.3 Recommended Dose for Pre-exposure Prophylaxis The dose of TRUVADA in HIV-1 uninfected adults is one tablet (containing 200 mg of emtricitabine and 300 mg of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) once daily taken orally with or without food. 2.4 Dose Adjustment for Renal Impairment Treatment of HIV-1 Infection Significantly increased drug exposures occurred when EMTRIVA or VIREAD were administered to subjects with moderate to severe renal impairment [see EMTRIVA or VIREAD Package Insert] . Therefore, adjust the dosing interval of TRUVADA in HIV-1 infected adult patients with baseline creatinine clearance 30–49 mL/min using the recommendations in Table 2. These dosing interval recommendations are based on modeling of single-dose pharmacokinetic data in non-HIV infected subjects. The safety and effectiveness of these dosing interval adjustment recommendations have not been clinically evaluated in patients with moderate renal impairment, therefore clinical response to treatment and renal function should be closely monitored in these patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . No dose adjustment is necessary for HIV-1 infected patients with mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance 50–80 mL/min). No data are available to make dose recommendations in pediatric patients with renal impairment. Table 2 Dosage Adjustment for HIV-1 Infected Adult Patients with Altered Creatinine Clearance Creatinine Clearance (mL/min) Calculated using ideal (lean) body weight ≥50 30–49 <30 (Including Patients Requiring Hemodialysis) Recommended Dosing Interval Every 24 hours Every 48 hours TRUVADA should not be administered. Routine monitoring of estimated creatinine clearance, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein should be performed in all individuals with mild renal impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Pre-exposure Prophylaxis Do not use TRUVADA for a PrEP indication in HIV-1 uninfected individuals with estimated creatinine clearance below 60 mL/min [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Routine monitoring of estimated creatinine clearance, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein should be performed in all individuals with mild renal impairment. If a decrease in estimated creatinine clearance is observed in uninfected individuals while using TRUVADA for PrEP, evaluate potential causes and re-assess potential risks and benefits of continued use [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] .
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets for HIV-1 PrEP are contraindicated in individuals with unknown or positive HIV-1 status [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets for HIV-1 PrEP are contraindicated in individuals with unknown or positive HIV-1 status. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate for HIV-1 PrEP is contraindicated in individuals with unknown or positive HIV-1 status [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablet for HIV-1 PrEP is contraindicated in individuals with unknown or positive HIV-1 status. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets are contraindicated in patients with previously demonstrated clinically significant hypersensitivity (e.g., Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, or toxic skin eruptions) to efavirenz, a component of efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets are contraindicated to be coadministered with voriconazole or elbasvir/grazoprevir [see Drug Interactions (7.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Previously demonstrated hypersensitivity (e.g., Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, or toxic skin eruptions) to efavirenz, a component of efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets. (4) Coadministration with voriconazole. (4) Coadministration with elbasvir/grazoprevir. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets for HIV-1 PrEP is contraindicated in individuals with unknown or positive HIV-1 status [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets for HIV-1 PrEP is contraindicated in individuals with unknown or positive HIV-1 status. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets for HIV-1 PrEP is contraindicated in individuals with unknown or positive HIV-1 status [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablet is contraindicated in patients with previously demonstrated clinically significant hypersensitivity (e.g., Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, or toxic skin eruptions) to efavirenz, a component of efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablet. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. • Efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablet is contraindicated to be coadministered with voriconazole or elbasvir/grazoprevir [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. • Previously demonstrated hypersensitivity (e.g., Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, or toxic skin eruptions) to efavirenz, a component of efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets. ( 4 ) • Coadministration with voriconazole. ( 4 ) • Coadministration with elbasvir/grazoprevir. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not use TRUVADA for pre-exposure prophylaxis in individuals with unknown or positive HIV-1 status. TRUVADA should be used in HIV-infected patients only in combination with other antiretroviral agents. Do not use TRUVADA for pre-exposure prophylaxis in individuals with unknown or positive HIV-1 status.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate increases didanosine concentrations. Dose reduction and close monitoring for didanosine toxicity are warranted. ( 7.2 ) • Coadministration decreases atazanavir concentrations. When coadministered with emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, use atazanavir given with ritonavir. ( 7.2 ) • Coadministration of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with certain HIV-1 protease inhibitors or certain drugs to treat HCV increases tenofovir concentrations. Monitor for evidence of tenofovir toxicity. ( 7.2 ) • Consult Full Prescribing Information prior to and during treatment for important drug interactions. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Drugs Affecting Renal Function FTC and tenofovir are primarily excreted by the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. No drug-drug interactions due to competition for renal excretion have been observed; however, coadministration of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of FTC, tenofovir, and/or the coadministered drug. Some examples include, but are not limited to, acyclovir, adefovir dipivoxil, cidofovir, ganciclovir, valacyclovir, valganciclovir, aminoglycosides (e.g., gentamicin), and high-dose or multiple NSAIDs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . Drugs that decrease renal function may increase concentrations of FTC and/or tenofovir. 7.2 Established and Significant Interactions Table 7 provides a listing of established or clinically significant drug interactions. The drug interactions described are based on studies conducted with either emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, the components of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets (FTC and TDF) as individual agents and/or in combination, or are predicted drug interactions that may occur with emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 7 Established and Significant a Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Trials Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration b Clinical Comment NRTI: didanosine c ↑ didanosine Patients receiving emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and didanosine should be monitored closely for didanosine-associated adverse reactions. Discontinue didanosine in patients who develop didanosine-associated adverse reactions. Higher didanosine concentrations could potentiate didanosine-associated adverse reactions, including pancreatitis, and neuropathy. Suppression of CD4+ cell counts has been observed in patients receiving TDF with didanosine 400 mg daily. In patients weighing greater than 60 kg, reduce the didanosine dose to 250 mg when it is coadministered with emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. Data are not available to recommend a dose adjustment of didanosine for adult or pediatric patients weighing less than 60 kg. When coadministered, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and Videx EC may be taken under fasted conditions or with a light meal (less than 400 kcal, 20% fat). HIV-1 Protease Inhibitors: atazanavir c lopinavir/ritonavir c atazanavir/ritonavir c darunavir/ritonavir c ↓ atazanavir ↑ tenofovir When coadministered with emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, atazanavir 300 mg should be given with ritonavir 100 mg. Monitor patients receiving emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate concomitantly with lopinavir/ritonavir, ritonavir-boosted atazanavir, or ritonavir-boosted darunavir for TDF-associated adverse reactions. Discontinue emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in patients who develop TDF-associated adverse reactions. Hepatitis C Antiviral Agents: sofosbuvir/velpatasvir c sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/ voxilaprevir c ledipasvir/sofosbuvir c ↑ tenofovir Monitor patients receiving emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate concomitantly with EPCLUSA ® (sofosbuvir/velpatasvir) or VOSEVI ® (sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir) for adverse reactions associated with TDF. Monitor patients receiving emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate concomitantly with HARVONI ® (ledipasvir/sofosbuvir) without an HIV-1 protease inhibitor/ritonavir or an HIV-1 protease inhibitor/cobicistat combination for adverse reactions associated with TDF. In patients receiving emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate concomitantly with HARVONI and an HIV-1 protease inhibitor/ritonavir or an HIV-1 protease inhibitor/cobicistat combination, consider an alternative HCV or antiretroviral therapy, as the safety of increased tenofovir concentrations in this setting has not been established. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for adverse reactions associated with TDF. a. This table is not all inclusive. b. ↑=Increase, ↓=Decrease. c. Indicates that a drug-drug interaction trial was conducted. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate increases didanosine concentrations. ( 7.2 ) Coadministration decreases atazanavir concentrations. ( 7.2 ) Coadministration of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with certain HIV-1 protease inhibitors or certain drugs to treat HCV increases tenofovir concentrations. ( 7.2 ) Consult Full Prescribing Information prior to and during treatment for important drug interactions. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Drugs Affecting Renal Function FTC and tenofovir are primarily excreted by the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . The drug interactions described are based on studies conducted with either emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, the components of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (FTC and TDF) as individual agents and/or in combination, or are predicted drug interactions that may occur with emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Table 7 Established and Significanta Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Trials a.This table is not all inclusive. b.↑=Increase, ↓=Decrease c.Indicates that a drug-drug interaction trial was conducted. Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration Clinical Comment NRTI: didanosine c ↑ didanosine Patients receiving emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and didanosine should be monitored closely for didanosine-associated adverse reactions. In patients weighing greater than 60 kg, reduce the didanosine dose to 250 mg when it is coadministered with emtricitabine and disoproxil fumarate tablets. When coadministered, emtricitabine and disoproxil fumarate tablets and Videx EC may be taken under fasted conditions or with a light meal (less than 400 kcal, 20% fat). Monitor patients receiving emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate concomitantly with lopinavir/ritonavir, ritonavir-boosted atazanavir, or ritonavir boosted darunavir for TDF-associated adverse reactions. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Consult Full Prescribing Information prior to and during treatment for important potential drug interactions. (4 , 5.4 , 7 ) HIV-1 protease inhibitors: Coadministration of efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with either lopinavir/ritonavir or darunavir and ritonavir increases tenofovir concentrations. Coadministration of efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with either atazanavir or atazanavir and ritonavir is not recommended. (7.3) 7.1 Efavirenz Efavirenz has been shown in vivo to induce CYP3A and CYP2B6. Other compounds that are substrates of CYP3A or CYP2B6 may have decreased plasma concentrations when coadministered with EFV. Drugs that induce CYP3A activity (e.g., phenobarbital, rifampin, rifabutin) would be expected to increase the clearance of EFV, resulting in lowered plasma concentrations [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. There is limited information available on the potential for a pharmacodynamic interaction between EFV and drugs that prolong the QTc interval. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of EFV [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Consider alternatives to efavirenz emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate when coadministered with a drug with a known risk of Torsade de Pointes. 7.2 Drugs Affecting Renal Function FTC and tenofovir are primarily eliminated by the kidneys [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Coadministration of efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of FTC, tenofovir, and/or the coadministered drug. Some examples include, but are not limited to, acyclovir, adefovir dipivoxil, cidofovir, ganciclovir, valacyclovir, valganciclovir, aminoglycosides (e.g., gentamicin), and high-dose or multiple NSAIDs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . 7.3 Established and Potentially Significant Interactions Other important drug interaction information for efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is summarized in Table 3. The drug interactions described are based on trials conducted with either efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, the components of efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (EFV, FTC, or TDF) as individual agents, or are potential drug interactions [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 3 Established and Potentially Significant a Drug Interactions Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect Clinical Comment HIV antiviral agents Protease inhibitor: atazanavir ↓ atazanavir ­ ↑ tenofovir Coadministration of atazanavir with efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is not recommended. The combined effect of EFV plus TDF on atazanavir plasma concentrations is not known. There are insufficient data to support dosing recommendations for atazanavir or atazanavir/ritonavir in combination with efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. Protease inhibitor: fosamprenavir calcium ↓ amprenavir Fosamprenavir (unboosted): Appropriate doses of fosamprenavir and efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established. Fosamprenavir/ritonavir: An additional 100 mg/day (300 mg total) of ritonavir is recommended when efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is administered with fosamprenavir/ritonavir once daily. No change in the ritonavir dose is required when efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is administered with fosamprenavir plus ritonavir twice daily. Protease inhibitor: indinavir ↓ indinavir The optimal dose of indinavir, when given in combination with EFV, is not known. Increasing the indinavir dose to 1000 mg every 8 hours does not compensate for the increased indinavir metabolism due to EFV. Protease inhibitor: darunavir/ritonavir lopinavir/ritonavir ­ ↑ tenofovir ↓ lopinavir ­↑ tenofovir Monitor patients receiving efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate concomitantly with ritonavir-boosted darunavir for TDF-associated adverse reactions. Discontinue efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in patients who develop TDF-associated adverse reactions. Do not use once daily administration of lopinavir/ritonavir. Dose increase of lopinavir/ritonavir is recommended for all patients when coadministered with EFV. Refer to the Full Prescribing Information for lopinavir/ritonavir for guidance on coadministration with EFV- or tenofovir-containing regimens, such as efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. Patients should be monitored for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. Protease inhibitor: ritonavir ­ ↑ ritonavir ­ ↑ efavirenz When ritonavir 500 mg every 12 hours was coadministered with EFV 600 mg once daily, the combination was associated with a higher frequency of adverse clinical experiences (e.g., dizziness, nausea, paresthesia) and laboratory abnormalities (elevated liver enzymes). Monitoring of liver enzymes is recommended when efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is used in combination with ritonavir. Protease inhibitor: saquinavir ↓ saquinavir Appropriate doses of the combination of EFV and saquinavir/ritonavir with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established. CCR5 co-receptor antagonist: maraviroc ↓ maraviroc Refer to the full prescribing information for maraviroc for guidance on coadministration with efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. NRTI: didanosine ­ ↑ didanosine Patients receiving efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and didanosine should be monitored closely for didanosine-associated adverse reactions. Higher didanosine concentrations could potentiate didanosine- associated adverse reactions, including pancreatitis, and neuropathy. In patients weighing greater than 60 kg, reduce the didanosine dose to 250 mg when it is coadministered with efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. In patients weighing less than 60 kg, reduce the didanosine dose to 200 mg when it is coadministered with efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets. When coadministered, efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and Videx EC may be taken under fasted conditions or with a light meal (less than 400 kcal, 20% fat). NNRTI: Other NNRTIs ­↑ or ↓ efavirenz and/or NNRTI Combining two NNRTIs has not been shown to be beneficial. Efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate contains EFV and should not be coadministered with other NNRTIs. Integrase strand transfer inhibitor: raltegravir ↓ raltegravir The clinical significance of this interaction has not been directly assessed. Hepatitis C antiviral agents boceprevir ↓ boceprevir Plasma trough concentrations of boceprevir were decreased when boceprevir was coadministered with EFV, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect. The combination should be avoided. elbasvir/grazoprevir ↓ elbasvir ↓ grazoprevir Coadministration of efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with elbasvir/grazoprevir is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] because it may lead to loss of virologic response to elbasvir/grazoprevir. glecaprevir/pibrentasvir ↓ glecaprevir ↓ pibrentasvir Coadministration of efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is not recommended because it may lead to reduced therapeutic effect of glecaprevir/pibrentasvir. ledipasvir/sofosbuvir ­↑ tenofovir Patients receiving efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and HARVONI ® (ledipasvir/sofosbuvir) concomitantly should be monitored for adverse reactions associated with TDF. simeprevir ↓ simeprevir ↔ efavirenz Concomitant administration of simeprevir with EFV is not recommended because it may result in loss of therapeutic effect of simeprevir. sofosbuvir/velpatasvir sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/ voxilaprevir ­ ↑ tenofovir ↓ velpatasvir ↓ voxilaprevir Coadministration of EFV-containing regimens and EPCLUSA ® (sofosbuvir/velpatasvir) or VOSEVI ® (sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir) is not recommended. Other agents Anticoagulant: warfarin ­ ↑ or ↓ warfarin Plasma concentrations and effects potentially increased or decreased by EFV. Anticonvulsants: carbamazepine ↓ carbamazepine ↓ efavirenz There are insufficient data to make a dose recommendation for efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. Alternative anticonvulsant treatment should be used. phenytoin phenobarbital ↓ anticonvulsant ↓ efavirenz Potential for reduction in anticonvulsant and/or EFV plasma levels; periodic monitoring of anticonvulsant plasma levels should be conducted. Antidepressants: bupropion ↓ bupropion The effect of EFV on bupropion exposure is thought to be due to the induction of bupropion metabolism. Increases in bupropion dosage should be guided by clinical response, but the maximum recommended dose of bupropion should not be exceeded. sertraline ↓ sertraline Increases in sertraline dose should be guided by clinical response. Antifungals: itraconazole ↓ itraconazole ↓ hydroxy- itraconazole Since no dose recommendation for itraconazole can be made, alternative antifungal treatment should be considered. ketoconazole ↓ ketoconazole Drug interaction trials with efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and ketoconazole have not been conducted. Efavirenz has the potential to decrease plasma concentrations of ketoconazole. posaconazole ↓ posaconazole Avoid concomitant use unless the benefit outweighs the risks. voriconazole ↓ voriconazole ­ ↑ efavirenz Coadministration of efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with voriconazole is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ] because it may lead to reduced therapeutic effect of voriconazole and increased risk of EFV-associated adverse reactions Anti-infective: clarithromycin ↓ clarithromycin ↑ 14-OH metabolite Consider alternatives to macrolide antibiotics because of the risk of QT interval prolongation. Antimycobacterial: rifabutin ↓ rifabutin Increase daily dose of rifabutin by 50%. Consider doubling the rifabutin dose in regimens where rifabutin is given 2 or 3 times a week. rifampin ↓ efavirenz If efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is coadministered with rifampin to patients weighing 50 kg or more, an additional 200 mg/day of EFV is recommended. Antimalarials: artemether/ lumefantrine atovaquone/proguanil ↓ artemether ↓ dihydroartemisinin ↓ lumefantrine ↓ atovaquone ↓ proguanil Consider alternatives to artemether/lumefantrine because of the risk of QT interval prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Concomitant administration of atovaquone/proguanil with efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is not recommended. Calcium channel blockers: diltiazem ↓ diltiazem ↓ desacetyl diltiazem ↓ N-monodes-methyl diltiazem Diltiazem dose adjustments should be guided by clinical response (refer to the full prescribing information for diltiazem). No dose adjustment of efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is necessary when administered with diltiazem. Others e.g., felodipine nicardipine nifedipine verapamil ↓ calcium channel blocker No data are available on the potential interactions of EFV with other calcium channel blockers that are substrates of CYP3A. The potential exists for reduction in plasma concentrations of the calcium channel blocker. Dose adjustments should be guided by clinical response (refer to the full prescribing information for the calcium channel blocker). HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: atorvastatin pravastatin simvastatin ↓ atorvastatin ↓ pravastatin ↓ simvastatin Plasma concentrations of atorvastatin, pravastatin, and simvastatin decreased with EFV. Consult the Full Prescribing Information for the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor for guidance on individualizing the dose. Hormonal contraceptives: Oral: ethinyl estradiol/norgestimate Implant: etonogestrel ↓ active metabolites of norgestimate ↓ etonogestrel A reliable method of barrier contraception must be used in addition to hormonal contraceptives. Efavirenz had no effect on ethinyl estradiol concentrations, but progestin levels (norelgestromin and levonorgestrel) were markedly decreased. No effect of ethinyl estradiol/norgestimate on EFV plasma concentrations was observed. A reliable method of barrier contraception must be used in addition to hormonal contraceptives. Decreased exposure of etonogestrel may be expected. There have been postmarketing reports of contraceptive failure with etonogestrel in EFV- exposed patients. Immunosuppressants: cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus, and others metabolized by CYP3A ↓ immuno- suppressant Decreased exposure of the immunosuppressant may be expected due to CYP3A induction by EFV. These immunosuppressants are not anticipated to affect exposure of EFV. Dose adjustments of the immunosuppressant may be required. Close monitoring of immunosuppressant concentrations for at least 2 weeks (until stable concentrations are reached) is recommended when starting or stopping treatment with efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. Narcotic analgesic: methadone ↓ methadone Coadministration of EFV in HIV-1 infected individuals with a history of injection drug use resulted in signs of opiate withdrawal. Methadone dose was increased by a mean of 22% to alleviate withdrawal symptoms. Patients should be monitored for signs of withdrawal and their methadone dose increased as required to alleviate withdrawal symptoms. 7.4 Efavirenz Assay Interference Cannabinoid Test Interaction: Efavirenz does not bind to cannabinoid receptors. False-positive urine cannabinoid test results have been reported with some screening assays in uninfected and HIV-infected subjects receiving EFV. Confirmation of positive screening tests for cannabinoids by a more specific method is recommended. When coadministered with emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets, use atazanavir given with ritonavir. ( 7.2 ) • Coadministration of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets with certain HIV-1 protease inhibitors or certain drugs to treat HCV increases tenofovir concentrations. No drug-drug interactions due to competition for renal excretion have been observed; however, coadministration of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of FTC, tenofovir, and/or the coadministered drug. Some examples include, but are not limited to, acyclovir, adefovir dipivoxil, cidofovir, ganciclovir, valacyclovir, valganciclovir, aminoglycosides (e.g., gentamicin), and high-dose or multiple NSAIDs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. The drug interactions described are based on studies conducted with either emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets, the components of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets (FTC and TDF) as individual agents and/or in combination, or are predicted drug interactions that may occur with emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Table 7 Established and Significant a Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Trials Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration Clinical Comment NRTI didanosine c ↑ didanosine Patients receiving emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets and didanosine should be didanosinec monitored closely for didanosine-associated adverse reactions. In patients weighing greater than 60 kg, reduce the didanosine dose to 250 mg when it is coadministered with emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets. When coadministered, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets and Videx EC may be taken under fasted conditions or with a light meal (less than 400 kcal, 20% fat). HIV-1 Protease Inhibitors: atazanavir c lopinavir/ritonavir c atazanavir/ritonavir c darunavir /ritonavir c ↓ atazanavir ↑ tenofovir When coadministered with emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets, atazanavir 300 mg should be given with ritonavir 100 mg. Monitor patients receiving emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets concomitantly with lopinavir/ritonavir, ritonavir-boosted atazanavir, or ritonavir boosted darunavir for TDF-associated adverse reactions Discontinue emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets in patients who develop TDF-associated adverse reactions. Hepatitis C Antiviral Agents: sofosbuvir/velpatasvir c sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/ voxilaprevir c ledipasvir/sofosbuvir c ↑ tenofovir Monitor patients receiving emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets concomitantly with EPCLUSA® (sofosbuvir/velpatasvir) or VOSEVI® (sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir) for adverse reactions associated with TDF. Monitor patients receiving emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets concomitantly with HARVONI® (ledipasvir/sofosbuvir) without an HIV-1 protease inhibitor/ritonavir or an HIV-1 protease inhibitor/cobicistat combination for adverse reactions associated with TDF. In patients receiving emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets concomitantly with HARVONI and an HIV-1 protease inhibitor/ritonavir or an HIV-1 protease inhibitor/cobicistat combination, consider an alternative HCV or antiretroviral therapy, as the safety of increased tenofovir concentrations in this setting has not been established. ↑=Increase, ↓=Decrease c. ( 7.2 ) Coadministration of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets with certain HIV-1 protease inhibitors or certain drugs to treat HCV increases tenofovir concentrations. Table 7: Established and Significant a Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Trials Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration b Clinical Comment NRTI: didanosine c ↑ didanosine Patients receiving emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets and didanosine should be monitored closely for didanosine-associated adverse reactions. HIV-1 Protease Inhibitors: atazanavir c lopinavir/ritonavir c atazanavir/ritonavir c darunavir/ritonavir c ↓ atazanavir ↑ tenofovir When coadministered with emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets, atazanavir 300 mg should be given with ritonavir 100 mg. Monitor patients receiving emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets concomitantly with lopinavir/ritonavir, ritonavir-boosted atazanavir, or ritonavir-boosted darunavir for TDF-associated adverse reactions. Discontinue emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets in patients who develop TDF-associated adverse reactions. Hepatitis C Antiviral Agents: sofosbuvir/velpatasvir c sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir c ledipasvir/sofosbuvir c ↑ tenofovir Monitor patients receiving emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets concomitantly with EPCLUSA ® (sofosbuvir/velpatasvir) or VOSEVI® (sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir) for adverse reactions associated with TDF. Monitor patients receiving emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets concomitantly with HARVONI ® (ledipasvir/sofosbuvir) without an HIV-1 protease inhibitor/ritonavir or an HIV-1 protease inhibitor/cobicistat combination for adverse reactions associated with TDF. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Consult Full Prescribing Information prior to and during treatment for important potential drug interactions. ( 4 , 5.4 , 7 ) • HIV-1 protease inhibitors: Coadministration of efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets with either lopinavir/ritonavir or darunavir and ritonavir increases tenofovir concentrations. Coadministration efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets with either atazanavir or atazanavir and ritonavir is not recommended. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Efavirenz Efavirenz has been shown in vivo to induce CYP3A and CYP2B6. Drugs that induce CYP3A activity (e.g., phenobarbital, rifampin, rifabutin) would be expected to increase the clearance of EFV, resulting in lowered plasma concentrations [See Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )]. QTc prolongation has been observed with the use of EFV [See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 )]. Consider alternatives to efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets when coadministered with a drug with a known risk of Torsade de Pointes. 7.2 Drugs Affecting Renal Function FTC and tenofovir are primarily eliminated by the kidneys [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Coadministration of efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of FTC, tenofovir, and/or the coadministered drug. Some examples include, but are not limited to, acyclovir, adefovir dipivoxil, cidofovir, ganciclovir, valacyclovir, valganciclovir, aminoglycosides (e.g., gentamicin), and high-dose or multiple NSAIDs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )]. The drug interactions described are based on trials conducted with either efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, the components of efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (EFV, FTC, or TDF ) as individual agents, or are potential drug interactions [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) Table 3 Established and Potentially Significant a Drug Interactions: Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect Clinical Comment HIV antiviral agents Protease inhibitor: atazanavir ↓atazanavir ↑ tenofovir Coadministration of atazanavir with efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets is not recommended. There are insufficient data to support dosing recommendations for atazanavir or atazanavir/ritonavir in combination with efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets. Increasing the indinavir dose to 1000 mg every 8 hours does not compensate forthe increased indinavir metabolism due to EFV. Protease inhibitor: darunavir/ritonavir lopinavir/ritonavir ↑ tenofovir ↓ lopinavir ↑ tenofovir Monitor patients receiving efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets concomitantly with ritonavir-boosted darunavir for TDF-associated adverse reactions. Discontinue efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets in patients who develop TDF-associated adverse reactions. Refer to the full prescribing information for lopinavir/ritonavir for guidance on coadministration with efavirenz-or tenofovir-containing regimens, such as efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. Patients should be monitored for tenofovir associated adverse reactions. Protease inhibitor: ritonavir ↑ ritonavir ↑ efavirenz When ritonavir 500 mg every 12 hours was coadministered with EFV 600 mg once daily, the combination was associated with a higher frequency of adverse clinical experiences (e.g., dizziness, nausea, paresthesia) and laboratory abnormalities (elevated liver enzymes). CCR5 co-receptor antagonist: maraviroc ↓ maraviroc Refer to the full prescribing information for maraviroc for guidance on coadministration with efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets. NRTI: didanosine ↑ didanosine Patients receiving efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and didanosine should be monitored closely for didanosine-associated adverse reactions. Discontinue didanosine in patients who develop didanosine associated adverse reactions. Higher didanosine concentrations could potentiate didanosineassociated adverse reactions, including pancreatitis, and neuropathy. In patients weighing greater than 60 kg, reduce the didanosine dose to 250 mg when it is coadministered with efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets. When coadministered, efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets and Videx EC may be taken under fasted conditions or with a light meal (less than 400 kcal, 20% fat). NNRTI: Other NNRTIs ↑ or ↓ efavirenz and/or NNRTI Combining two NNRTIs has not been shown to be beneficial. elbasvir/grazoprevir ↓ elbasvir ↓ grazoprevir Coadministration of efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets with elbasvir/grazoprevir is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 )] because it may lead to loss of virologic response to elbasvir/grazoprevir. glecaprevir/pibrentasvir ↓ glecaprevir ↓ pibrentasvir Coadministration of efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets is not recommended because it may lead to reduced therapeutic effect of glecaprevir/pibrentasvir. ledipasvir/sofosbuvir ↑ tenofovir Patients receiving efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets and HARVONI ® (ledipasvir/sofosbuvir) concomitantly should be monitored for adverse reactions associated with TDF. simeprevir ↑ simeprevir ↔efavirenz Concomitant administration of simeprevir with EFV is not recommended because it may result in loss of therapeutic effect of simeprevir. sofosbuvir/velpatasvir sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/ voxilaprevir ↑ tenofovir ↓ velpatasvir ↓ voxilaprevir Coadministration of EFV-containing regimens and EPCLUSA ® (sofosbuvir/velpatasvir) or VOSEVI ® (sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir) is not recommended. Other agents Anticoagulant: warfarin ↑ or ↓ warfarin Plasma concentrations and effects potentially increased or decreased by EFV. Antidepressants: bupropion ↓ buproprion The effect of EFV on bupropion exposure is thought to be due to the induction of bupropion metabolism. Antifungals itraconazole: ↓ itraconazole ↓hydroxy-itraconazole Since no dose recommendation for itraconazole can be made, alternative antifungal treatment should be considered. voriconazole ↓ voriconazole ↑ efavirenz Coadministration of efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tablets with voriconazole is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 )] because it may lead to reduced therapeutic effect of voriconazole and increased risk of EFV-associated adverse reactions Anti-infective: clarithromycin ↓ clarithromycin ↑ 14-OH metabolite Consider alternatives to macrolide antibiotics because of the risk of QT interval prolongation. Antimycobacterial: rifabutin rifampin ↓ rifabutin ↓ efavirenz Increase daily dose of rifabutin by 50%. If efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is coadministered with rifampin to patients weighing 50 kg or more, an additional 200 mg/day of EFV is recommended. Antimalarials: artemether/ lumefantrine atovaquone/proguanil ↓ artemether ↓ dihydroartemisinin ↓ lumefantrine ↓ atovaquone ↓ proguanil Consider alternatives to artemether/lumefantrine because of the risk of QT interval prolongation [See Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. Calcium channel blockers: diltiazem ↓ diltiazem ↓ desacetyl diltiazem ↓ N-monodesmethyl diltiazem Diltiazem dose adjustments should be guided by clinical response (refer to the full prescribing information for diltiazem). Others e.g., felodipine nicardipine nifedipine verapamil ↓ calcium channel blocker No data are available on the potential interactions of efavirenz with other calcium channel blockers that are substrates of CYP3A. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: atorvastatin pravastatin simvastatin ↓ atorvastatin ↓ pravastatin ↓ simvastatin Plasma concentrations of atorvastatin, pravastatin, and simvastatin decreased with efavirenz. There have been postmarketing reports of contraceptive failure with etonogestrel in EFV-exposed patients. Immunosuppressants: cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus, and other metabolized by CYP3A ↓ immune-suppressant Decreased exposure of the immunosuppressant may be expected due to CYP3A induction by EFV. This table is not all inclusive 7.4 Efavirenz Assay Interference Cannabinoid Test Interaction: Efavirenz does not bind to cannabinoid receptors. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug interaction trials have been conducted using TRUVADA tablets. Drug interaction trials have been conducted with emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, the components of TRUVADA. This section describes clinically relevant drug interactions observed with emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Didanosine: Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate increases didanosine concentrations. Use with caution and monitor for evidence of didanosine toxicity (e.g., pancreatitis, neuropathy) when coadministered. Consider dose reductions or discontinuations of didanosine if warranted. ( 7.1 ) HIV-1 protease inhibitors: Coadministration decreases atazanavir concentrations and increases tenofovir concentrations. When coadministered with TRUVADA, use atazanavir given with ritonavir. Coadministration of TRUVADA with atazanavir and ritonavir, darunavir and ritonavir, or lopinavir/ritonavir increases tenofovir concentrations. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Didanosine Coadministration of TRUVADA and didanosine should be undertaken with caution and patients receiving this combination should be monitored closely for didanosine-associated adverse reactions. Didanosine should be discontinued in patients who develop didanosine-associated adverse reactions. When tenofovir disoproxil fumarate was administered with didanosine the C max and AUC of didanosine increased significantly [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The mechanism of this interaction is unknown. Suppression of CD4+ cell counts has been observed in patients receiving tenofovir DF with didanosine 400 mg daily. In patients weighing greater than 60 kg, the didanosine dose should be reduced to 250 mg when it is coadministered with TRUVADA. When coadministered, TRUVADA and Videx EC may be taken under fasted conditions or with a light meal (less than 400 kcal, 20% fat). 7.2 HIV-1 Protease Inhibitors Tenofovir decreases the AUC and C min of atazanavir [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . When coadministered with TRUVADA, it is recommended that atazanavir 300 mg is given with ritonavir 100 mg. TRUVADA should not be coadministered with atazanavir without ritonavir . Lopinavir/ritonavir, atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir, and darunavir coadministered with ritonavir have been shown to increase tenofovir concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (Pgp) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporters. When tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is co-administered with an inhibitor of these transporters, an increase in absorption may be observed. Patients receiving TRUVADA concomitantly with lopinavir/ritonavir, ritonavir-boosted atazanavir, or ritonavir-boosted darunavir should be monitored for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate-associated adverse reactions. TRUVADA should be discontinued in patients who develop tenofovir disoproxil fumarate-associated adverse reactions . 7.3 Hepatitis C Antiviral Agents Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and HARVONI ® (ledipasvir/sofosbuvir) has been shown to increase tenofovir exposure [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . In patients receiving TRUVADA concomitantly with HARVONI without an HIV-1 protease inhibitor/ritonavir or an HIV-1 protease inhibitor/cobicistat combination, monitor for adverse reactions associated with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. In patients receiving TRUVADA concomitantly with HARVONI and an HIV-1 protease inhibitor/ritonavir or an HIV-1 protease inhibitor/cobicistat combination, consider an alternative HCV or antiretroviral therapy, as the safety of increased tenofovir concentrations in this setting has not been established. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for adverse reactions associated with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. 7.4 Drugs Affecting Renal Function Emtricitabine and tenofovir are primarily excreted by the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . No drug-drug interactions due to competition for renal excretion have been observed; however, coadministration of TRUVADA with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of emtricitabine, tenofovir, and/or the coadministered drug. Some examples include, but are not limited to, acyclovir, adefovir dipivoxil, cidofovir, ganciclovir, valacyclovir, valganciclovir, aminoglycosides (e.g., gentamicin), and high-dose or multiple NSAIDs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Drugs that decrease renal function may increase concentrations of emtricitabine and/or tenofovir.

=== GENTAMICIN SULFATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE: To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Gentamicin Injection, USP and other antibacterial drugs, Gentamicin Injection, USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. Gentamicin Injection, USP is indicated in the treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible strains of the following microorganisms: Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Proteus species (indole-positive and indole-negative), Escherichia coli, Klebsiella-Enterobacter-Serratia species, Citrobacter species and Staphylococcus species (coagulase-positive and coagulase-negative). Clinical studies have shown gentamicin injection to be effective in bacterial neonatal sepsis; bacterial septicemia and serious bacterial infections of the central nervous system (meningitis), urinary tract, respiratory tract, gastrointestinal tract (including peritonitis), skin, bone and soft tissue (including burns). Aminoglycosides, including gentamicin, are not indicated in uncomplicated initial episodes of urinary tract infections unless the causative organisms are susceptible to these antibiotics and are not susceptible to antibiotics having less potential for toxicity. Specimens for bacterial culture should be obtained to isolate and identify causative organisms and to determine their susceptibility to gentamicin. Gentamicin injection may be considered as initial therapy in suspected or confirmed gram-negative infections, and therapy may be instituted before obtaining results of susceptibility testing. The decision to continue therapy with this drug should be based on the results of susceptibility tests, the severity of the infection and the important additional concepts contained in the BOXED WARNINGS . If the causative organisms are resistant to gentamicin, other appropriate therapy should be instituted. In serious infections when the causative organisms are unknown, gentamicin injection may be administered as initial therapy in conjunction with a penicillin-type or cephalosporin-type drug before obtaining results of susceptibility testing. If anaerobic organisms are suspected as etiologic agents, consideration should be given to using other suitable antimicrobial therapy in conjunction with gentamicin. Following identification of the organism and its susceptibility, appropriate antibiotic therapy should then be continued. Gentamicin injection has been used effectively in combination with carbenicillin for the treatment of life-threatening infections caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa. It has also been found effective when used in conjunction with a penicillin-type drug for treatment of endocarditis caused by group D streptococci. Gentamicin injection has also been shown to be effective in the treatment of serious staphylococcal infections. While not the antibiotic of first choice, gentamicin injection may be considered when penicillins or other less potentially toxic drugs are contraindicated and bacterial susceptibility tests and clinical judgment indicate its use. It may also be considered in mixed infections caused by susceptible strains of staphylococci and gram-negative organisms. In the neonate with suspected bacterial sepsis or staphylococcal pneumonia, a penicillin-type drug is also usually indicated as concomitant therapy with gentamicin. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic solution is indicated in the topical treatment of ocular bacterial infections including conjunctivitis, keratitis, keratoconjunctivitis, corneal ulcers, blepharitis, blepharoconjunctivitis, acute meibomianitis, and dacryocystitis, caused by susceptible strains of the following microorganisms: Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis, Streptococcus pyogenes, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Enterobacter aerogenes, Escherichia coli, Haemophilus influenzae, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Serratia marcescens. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Primary skin infections: Impetigo contagiosa, superficial folliculitis, ecthyma, furunculosis, sycosis barbae, and pyoderma gangrenosum. Secondary skin infections: Infectious eczematoid dermatitis, pustular acne, pustular psoriasis, infected seborrheic dermatitis, infected contact dermatitis (including poison ivy), infected excoriations, and bacterial superinfections of fungal or viral infections. NOTE: Gentamicin Sulfate is a bactericidal agent that is not effective against viruses or fungi in skin infections. It is useful in the treatment of infected skin cysts and certain other skin abscesses when preceded by incision and drainage to permit adequate contact between the antibiotic and the infecting bacteria. Good results have been obtained in the treatment of infected stasis and other skin ulcers, infected superficial burns, paronychia, infected insect bites and stings, infected lacerations and abrasions and wounds from minor surgery. Patients sensitive to neomycin can be treated with Gentamicin Sulfate, although regular observation of patients sensitive to topical antibiotics is advisable when such patients are treated with any topical antibiotic. Gentamicin sulfate cream is recommended for wet, oozing primary infections, and greasy, secondary infections, such as postular acne or infected seborrheic dermatitis. Gentamicin Sulfate Ointment, USP 0.1% helps retain moisture and has been useful in infection on dry eczematous or psoriatic skin. Gentamicin Sulfate Ointment, USP 0.1% has been used successfully in infants over one year of age as well as in adults and children. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Gentamicin Sulfate Sterile Ophthalmic Solution is indicated in the topical treatment of ocular bacterial infections, including conjunctivitis, keratitis, keratoconjunctivitis, corneal ulcers, blepharitis, blepharoconjunctivitis, acute meibomianitis, and dacryocystitis caused by susceptible strains of the following microorganisms: Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis, Streptococcus pyogenes, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Enterobacter aerogenes, Escherichia coli, Haemophilus influenzae, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Serratia marcescens. INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of gentamicin and other antibacterial drugs, gentamicin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Gentamicin Sulfate Injection, USP is indicated in the treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible strains of the following microorganisms: Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Proteus species (indole-positive and indole-negative), Escherichia coli , Klebsiella-Enterobacter-Serratia species, Citrobacter species, and Staphylococcus species(coagulase-positive and coagulase-negative). Clinical studies have shown Gentamicin Sulfate Injection, USP to be effective in bacterial neonatal sepsis; bacterial septicemia; and serious bacterial infections of the central nervous system (meningitis), urinary tract, respiratory tract, gastrointestinal tract (including peritonitis), skin, bone and soft tissue (including burns). Gentamicin sulfate may be considered as initial therapy in suspected or confirmed gram-negative infections, and therapy may be instituted before obtaining results of susceptibility testing. The decision to continue therapy with this drug should be based on the results of susceptibility tests, the severity of the infection, and the important additional concepts contained in the WARNINGS box . In serious infections when the causative organisms are unknown, gentamicin sulfate may be administered as initial therapy in conjunction with a penicillin-type or cephalosporin-type drug before obtaining results of susceptibility testing. Gentamicin sulfate has been used effectively in combination with carbenicillin for the treatment of life-threatening infections caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa . It has also been found effective when used in conjunction with a penicillin-type drug for the treatment of endocarditis caused by group D streptococci. Gentamicin Sulfate Injection, USP has also been shown to be effective in the treatment of serious staphylococcal infections. While not the antibiotic of first choice, gentamicin may be considered when penicillins or other less potentially toxic drugs are contraindicated and bacterial susceptibility tests and clinical judgment indicate its use. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic solution is indicated in the topical treatment of ocular bacterial infections including conjunctivitis, keratitis, keratoconjunctivitis, corneal ulcers, blepharitis, blepharoconjunctivitis, acute meibomianitis, and dacryocystitis, caused by susceptible strains of the following microorganisms: Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis, Streptococcus pyogenes, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Enterobacter aerogenes, Escherichia coli; Haemophilus influenzae, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Serratia marcescens. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic solution, USP is indicated in the topical treatment of ocular bacterial infections including conjunctivitis, keratitis, keratoconjunctivitis, corneal ulcers, blepharitis, blepharoconjunctivitis, acute meibomianitis, and dacryocystitis, caused by susceptible strains of the following microorganisms: Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis, Streptococcus pyogenes, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Enterobacter aerogenes, Escherichia coli, Haemophilus influenzae, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Serratia marcescens . INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Gentamicin Sulfate in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection and other antibacterial drugs, Gentamicin Sulfate in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Gentamicin Sulfate in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection is indicated in the treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible strains of the following microorganisms: Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Proteus species (indole-positive and indole-negative), Escherichia coli , Klebsiella-Enterobacter- Serratia species, Citrobacter species, and Staphylococcus species (coagulase-positive and coagulase-negative). Clinical studies have shown gentamicin sulfate to be effective in bacterial neonatal sepsis; bacterial septicemia; and serious bacterial infections of the central nervous system (meningitis), urinary tract, respiratory tract, gastrointestinal tract (including peritonitis), skin, bone and soft tissue (including burns). Gentamicin Sulfate in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection may be considered as initial therapy in suspected or confirmed gram-negative infections, and therapy may be instituted before obtaining results of susceptibility testing. The decision to continue therapy with this drug should be based on the results of susceptibility tests, the severity of the infection, and the important additional concepts contained in the boxed WARNINGS . In serious infections when the causative organisms are unknown, Gentamicin Sulfate in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection may be administered as initial therapy in conjunction with a penicillin-type or cephalosporin-type drug before obtaining results of susceptibility testing. Gentamicin injection has been used effectively in combination with carbenicillin for the treatment of life-threatening infections caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa . While not the antibiotic of first choice, gentamicin may be considered when penicillins or other less potentially toxic drugs are contraindicated and bacterial susceptibility tests and clinical judgement indicate its use. In the neonate with suspected bacterial sepsis or staphylococcal pneumonia, a penicillin-type drug is also usually indicated as concomitant therapy with gentamicin (see PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION sections).
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Gentamicin injection may be given IM or IV. The patient’s pretreatment body weight should be obtained for calculation of correct dosage. The dosage of aminoglycosides in obese patients should be based on an estimate of the lean body mass. It is desirable to limit the duration of treatment with aminoglycosides to short term. PATIENTS WITH NORMAL RENAL FUNCTION Adults The recommended dosage of gentamicin injection for patients with serious infections and normal renal function is 3 mg/kg/day, administered in three equal doses every eight hours (Table 3) . For patients with life-threatening infections, dosages up to 5 mg/kg/day may be administered in three or four equal doses. This dosage should be reduced to 3 mg/kg/day as soon as clinically indicated (Table 3) . It is desirable to measure both peak and trough serum concentrations of gentamicin to determine the adequacy and safety of the dosage. When such measurements are feasible, they should be carried out periodically during therapy to assure adequate but not excessive drug levels. For example, the peak concentration (at 30 to 60 minutes after IM injection) is expected to be in the range of 4 to 6 mcg/mL. When monitoring peak concentrations after IM or IV administration, dosage should be adjusted so that prolonged levels above 12 mcg/mL are avoided. When monitoring trough concentrations (just prior to the next dose), dosage should be adjusted so that levels above 2 mcg/mL are avoided. Determination of the adequacy of a serum level for a particular patient must take into consideration the susceptibility of the causative organism, the severity of the infection and the status of the patient’s host-defense mechanisms. In patients with extensive burns, altered pharmacokinetics may result in reduced serum concentrations of aminoglycosides. In such patients treated with gentamicin, measurement of serum concentrations is recommended as a basis for dosage adjustment. TABLE 3 DOSAGE SCHEDULE GUIDE FOR ADULTS WITH NORMAL RENAL FUNCTION (Dosage at Eight-Hour Intervals) 40 mg per mL Patient’s Weight* Usual Dose for Serious Infections 1 mg/kg q8h (3 mg/kg/day) Dose for Life-Threatening Infections (Reduce As Soon As Clinically Indicated) 1.7 mg/kg q8h** (5 mg/kg/day) kg (lb) mg/dose mL/dose mg/dose mL/dose q8h q8h 40 ( 88 ) 40 1 66 1.6 45 ( 99) 45 1.1 75 1.9 50 (110) 50 1.25 83 2.1 55 (121) 55 1.4 91 2.25 60 (132) 60 1.5 100 2.5 65 (143) 65 1.6 108 2.7 70 (154) 70 1.75 116 2.9 75 (165) 75 1.9 125 3.1 80 (176) 80 2 133 3.3 85 (187) 85 2.1 141 3.5 90 (198) 90 2.25 150 3.75 95 (209) 95 2.4 158 4 100 (220) 100 2.5 166 4.2 *The dosage of aminoglycosides in obese patients should be based on an estimate of the lean body mass. **for q6h schedules, dosage should be recalculated. Children 6 to 7.5 mg/kg/day (2 to 2.5 mg/kg administered every eight hours). Infants and Neonates 7.5 mg/kg/day (2.5 mg/kg administered every eight hours). Premature or Full-Term Neonates One Week of Age or Less 5 mg/kg/day (2.5 mg/kg administered every 12 hours). For further information concerning the use of gentamicin in infants and children, see gentamicin injection (pediatric) product information. The usual duration of treatment for all patients is 7 to 10 days. In difficult and complicated infections, a longer course of therapy may be necessary. In such cases monitoring of renal, auditory and vestibular functions is recommended, since toxicity is more apt to occur with treatment extended for more than 10 days. Dosage should be reduced if clinically indicated. FOR INTRAVENOUS ADMINISTRATION The IV administration of gentamicin may be particularly useful for treating patients with bacterial septicemia or those in shock. It may also be the preferred route of administration for some patients with congestive heart failure, hematologic disorders, severe burns or those with reduced muscle mass. For intermittent IV administration in adults, a single dose of gentamicin injection may be diluted in 50 to 200 mL of sterile isotonic saline solution or in a sterile solution of dextrose 5% in water; in infants and children, the volume of diluent should be less. The solution may be infused over a period of one-half to two hours. The recommended dosage for IM and IV administration is identical. Gentamicin injection should not be physically premixed with other drugs, but should be administered separately in accordance with the recommended route of administration and dosage schedule. PATIENTS WITH IMPAIRED RENAL FUNCTION Dosage must be adjusted in patients with impaired renal function to assure therapeutically adequate, but not excessive blood levels. Whenever possible serum concentration of gentamicin should be monitored. One method of dosage adjustment is to increase the interval between administration of the usual doses. Since the serum creatinine concentration has a high correlation with the serum half-life of gentamicin, this laboratory test may provide guidance for adjustment of the interval between doses. The interval between doses (in hours) may be approximated by multiplying the serum creatinine level (mg/100 mL) by 8. For example, a patient weighing 60 kg with a serum creatinine level of 2 mg/100 mL could be given 60 mg (1 mg/kg) every 16 hours (2 x 8). In patients with serious systemic infections and renal impairment, it may be desirable to administer the antibiotic more frequently but in reduced dosage. In such patients, serum concentrations of gentamicin should be measured so that adequate but not excessive levels result. A peak and trough concentration measured intermittently during therapy will provide optimal guidance for adjusting dosage. After the usual initial dose, a rough guide for determining reduced dosage at eight-hour intervals is to divide the normally recommended dose by the serum creatinine level (Table 4) . For example, after an initial dose of 60 mg (1 mg/kg), a patient weighing 60 kg with a serum creatinine level of 2 mg/100 mL could be given 30 mg every eight hours (60 ÷ 2). It should be noted that the status of renal function may be changing over the course of the infectious process. It is important to recognize that deteriorating renal function may require a greater reduction in dosage than that specified in the above guidelines for patients with stable renal impairment. TABLE 4 DOSAGE ADJUSTMENT GUIDE FOR PATIENTS WITH RENAL IMPAIRMENT (Dosage at Eight-Hour Intervals After the Usual Initial Dose) Serum Creatinine (mg %) Approximate Creatinine Clearance Rate (mL/min/1.73m 2 ) Percent of Usual Doses Shown Above ≤1 > 100 100 1.1 to 1.3 70 to 100 80 1.4 to 1.6 55 to 70 65 1.7 to 1.9 45 to 55 55 2 to 2.2 40 to 45 50 2.3 to 2.5 35 to 40 40 2.6 to 3 30 to 35 35 3.1 to 3.5 25 to 30 30 3.6 to 4 20 to 25 25 4.1 to 5.1 15 to 20 20 5.2 to 6.6 10 to 15 15 6.7 to 8 < 10 10 In adults with renal failure undergoing hemodialysis, the amount of gentamicin removed from the blood may vary depending upon several factors including the dialysis method used. An eight-hour hemodialysis may reduce serum concentrations of gentamicin by approximately 50%. The recommended dosage at the end of each dialysis period is 1 to 1.7 mg/kg depending upon the severity of the infection. In children, a dose of 2 mg/kg may be administered. The above dosage schedules are not intended as rigid recommendations but are provided as guides to dosage when measurement of gentamicin serum level is not feasible. A variety of methods are available to measure gentamicin concentrations in body fluids; these include microbiologic, enzymatic and radioimmunoassay techniques. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instill one or two drops into the affected eye(s) every four hours. In severe infections dosage may be increased to as much as two drops every hour. The patient's pretreatment body weight should be obtained for calculation of correct dosage. PATIENTS WITH NORMAL RENAL FUNCTION Adults The recommended dosage of gentamicin injection for patients with serious infections and normal renal function is 3 mg/kg/day, administered in three equal doses every eight hours ( Table 3 ) . This dosage should be reduced to 3 mg/kg/day as soon as clinically indicated ( Table 3 ) . Determination of the adequacy of a serum level for a particular patient must take into consideration the susceptibility of the causative organism, the severity of the infection and the status of the patient's host-defense mechanisms. TABLE 3 DOSAGE SCHEDULE GUIDE FOR ADULTS WITH NORMAL RENAL FUNCTION *The dosage of aminoglycosides in obese patients should be based on an estimate of the lean body mass. (Dosage at Eight-Hour Intervals) 40 mg per mL Patient's Weight* Usual Dose for Serious Infections 1 mg/kg q8h (3 mg/kg/day) Dose for Life-Threatening Infections (Reduce As Soon As Clinically Indicated) 1.7 mg/kg q8h** (5 mg/kg/day) kg (lb) mg/dose mL/dose mg/dose mL/dose q8h q8h 40 ( 88 ) 40 1 66 1.6 45 (99) 45 1.1 75 1.9 50 (110) 50 1.25 83 2.1 55 (121) 55 1.4 91 2.25 60 (132) 60 1.5 100 2.5 65 (143) 65 1.6 108 2.7 70 (154) 70 1.75 116 2.9 75 (165) 75 1.9 125 3.1 80 (176) 80 2 133 3.3 85 (187) 85 2.1 141 3.5 90 (198) 90 2.25 150 3.75 95 (209) 95 2.4 158 4 100 (220) 100 2.5 166 4.2 Children 6 to 7.5 mg/kg/day (2 to 2.5 mg/kg administered every eight hours). After the usual initial dose, a rough guide for determining reduced dosage at eight-hour intervals is to divide the normally recommended dose by the serum creatinine level ( Table 4 ) . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A small amount of Gentamicin Sulfate Ointment, USP 0.1% should be applied gently to lesions three to four times a day. The area treated may be covered with a gauze dressing, if desired. In impetigo contagiosa, the crusts should be removed before application of Gentamicin Sulfate Ointment, USP 0.1% to permit maximum contact between the antibiotic and the infection. Care should be exercised to avoid further contamination of the infected skin. Infected stasis ulcers have responded well to Gentamicin Sulfate under gelatin packing. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Gentamicin Sulfate sterile ophthalmic solution; Instill one or two drops into the affected eye(s) every four hours. In severe infections, dosage may be increased to as much as two drops once every hour. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Gentamicin Sulfate Injection, USP may be given intramuscularly or by intravenous infusion. Patients with Normal Renal Function Adults: The recommended dosage of gentamicin sulfate for patients with serious infections and normal renal function is 3 mg/kg/day, administered in three equal doses every eight hours ( Table 1 ). The dosage should be reduced to 3 mg/kg/day as soon as clinically indicated ( Table 1 ). For example, the peak concentration (at 30 to 60 minutes after intramuscular injection) is expected to be in the range of 4 to 6 mcg/mL. When monitoring peak concentrations after intramuscular or intravenous administration, dosage should be adjusted so that prolonged levels above 12 mcg/mL are avoided. Determination of the adequacy of a serum level for a particular patient must take into consideration the susceptibility of the causative organism, the severity of the infection, and the status of the patient's host-defense mechanisms. Table 1 Dosage Schedule Guide For Adults With Normal Renal Function (Dosage at Eight-Hour Intervals) 40 mg/mL Patient's Weight The dosage of aminoglycosides in obese patients should be based on an estimate of the lean body mass. Usual Dose for Serious Infections Dose for Life-Threatening Infections (Reduce as Soon as Clinically Indicated) kg (lb) 1 mg/kg q8h (3 mg/kg/day) 1.7 mg/kg q8h For q6h schedules, dosage should be recalculated. (5 mg/kg/day) mg/ dose mL/dose mg/dose mL/dose q8h q8h 40 (88) 40 1 66 1.6 45 (99) 45 1.1 75 1.9 50 (110) 50 1.25 83 2.1 55 (121) 55 1.4 91 2.25 60 (132) 60 1.5 100 2.5 65 (143) 65 1.6 108 2.7 70 (154) 70 1.75 116 2.9 75 (165) 75 1.9 125 3.1 80 (176) 80 2 133 3.3 85 (187) 85 2.1 141 3.5 90 (198) 90 2.25 150 3.75 95 (209) 95 2.4 158 4 100 (220) 100 2.5 166 4.2 Children: 6 to 7.5 mg/kg/day (2 to 2.5 mg/kg administered every 8 hours). Infants and Neonates: 7.5 mg/kg/day (2.5 mg/kg administered every 8 hours). Premature or Full-Term Neonates One Week of Age or Less: 5 mg/kg/day (2.5 mg/kg administered every 12 hours). NOTE: For further information concerning the use of gentamicin in infants and children, see pediatric gentamicin sulfate injection product information. The usual duration of treatment for all patients is seven to ten days. In such cases monitoring of renal, auditory, and vestibular functions is recommended, since toxicity is more apt to occur with treatment extended for more than ten days. For Intravenous Administration The intravenous administration of gentamicin may be particularly useful for treating patients with bacterial septicemia or those in shock. It may also be the preferred route of administration for some patients with congestive heart failure, hematologic disorders, severe burns, or those with reduced muscle mass. For intermittent intravenous administration in adults, a single-dose of gentamicin sulfate may be diluted in 50 to 200 mL of sterile isotonic saline solution or in a sterile solution of 5% dextrose in water, in infants and children, the volume of diluent should be less. The recommended dosage for intravenous and intramuscular administration is identical. Gentamicin sulfate should not be physically premixed with other drugs, but should be administered separately in accordance with the recommended route of administration and dosage schedule. Whenever possible, serum concentrations of gentamicin should be monitored. For example, a patient weighing 60 kg with a serum creatinine level of 2.0 mg/100 mL could be given 60 mg (1 mg/kg) every 16 hours (2 x 8). In such patients, serum concentrations of gentamicin should be measured so that adequate, but not excessive levels result. After the usual initial dose, a rough guide for determining reduced dosage at eight-hour intervals is to divide the normally recommended dose by the serum creatinine level ( Table 2 ). For example, after an initial dose of 60 mg (1 mg/kg), a patient weighing 60 kg with a serum creatinine level of 2.0 mg/100 mL could be given 30 mg every eight hours (60 ÷ 2). Table 2 Dosage Adjustment Guide for Patients with Renal Impairment (Dosage at Eight-Hour Intervals After the Usual Initial Dose) Serum Creatinine (mg %) Approximate Creatinine Clearance Rate (mL/min/1.73M 2 ) Percent of Usual Doses Shown in Table 1 ≤1.0 >100 100 1.1 — 1.3 70 — 100 80 1.4 — 1.6 55 — 70 65 1.7 — 1.9 45 — 55 55 2.0 — 2.2 40 — 45 50 2.3 — 2.5 35 — 40 40 2.6 — 3.0 30 — 35 35 3.1 — 3.5 25 — 30 30 3.6 — 4.0 20 — 25 25 4.1 — 5.1 15 — 20 20 5.2 — 6.6 10 — 15 15 6.7 — 8.0 <10 10 In adults with renal failure undergoing hemodialysis, the amount of gentamicin removed from the blood may vary depending upon several factors including the dialysis method used. The recommended dose at the end of each dialysis period is 1 to 1.7 mg/kg depending upon the severity of infection. The above dosage schedules are not intended as rigid recommendations but are provided as guides to dosage when the measurement of gentamicin serum levels is not feasible. In severe infections, dosage may be increased to as much as two drops every hour. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Gentamicin Sulfate in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection is for intravenous use only . Patients with Normal Renal Function Adults: The recommended dosage of Gentamicin Sulfate in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection for patients with serious infections and normal renal function is 3 mg/kg/day administered in three equal doses every eight hours (Table 3). The dosage should be reduced to 3 mg/kg/day as soon as clinically indicated (Table 3). For example, the peak concentration (at 30 to 60 minutes following cessation of infusion) is expected to be in the range of 4 to 6 mcg/mL. When monitoring peak concentrations, dosage should be adjusted so that prolonged levels above 12 mcg/mL are avoided. Determination of the adequacy of a serum level for a particular patient must take into consideration the susceptibility of the causative organism, the severity of the infection, and the status of the patient’s host-defense mechanisms. Table 3: Dosage Schedule Guide for Adults With Normal Renal Function (Dosage at Eight-Hour Intervals) Patient’s Weight The dosage of aminoglycosides in obese patients should be based on an estimate of the lean body mass. Usual Dose for Serious Infections 1 mg/kg q8h (3 mg/kg/day) Dose for Life-Threatening Infections (Reduce as Soon as Clinically Indicated) 1.7 mg/kg q8h For q6h schedules, dosage should be recalculated. (5 mg/kg/day) kg (lb) mg/dose q8h mg/dose q8h 40 ( 88) 40 66 45 ( 99) 45 75 50 (110) 50 83 55 (121) 55 91 60 (132) 60 100 65 (143) 65 108 70 (154) 70 116 75 (165) 75 125 80 (176) 80 133 85 (187) 85 141 90 (198) 90 150 95 (209) 95 158 100 (220) 100 166 Children : 6 to 7.5 mg/kg/day (2 to 2.5 mg/kg administered every eight hours). Infants and Neonates : 7.5 mg/kg/day (2.5 mg/kg administered every eight hours). Premature or Full-Term Neonates One Week of Age or Less : 5 mg/kg/day (2.5 mg/kg administered every 12 hours). For intermittent intravenous administration in adults, a single dose of Gentamicin Sulfate in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection may be administered according to individual patient requirements from the appropriate premixed container. Gentamicin Sulfate Injection should not be physically premixed with other drugs, but should be administered separately in accordance with the recommended route of administration and dosage schedule. After the usual initial dose, a rough guide for determining reduced dosage at eight-hour intervals is to divide the normally recommended dose by the serum creatinine level (Table 4). It is important to recognize that deteriorating renal function may require a greater reduction of dosage than that specified in the above guidelines for patients with stable renal impairment. This container system may be inappropriate for the dosage requirements of children, infants, and neonates. Other dosage forms may be more appropriate. Table 4: Dosage Adjustment Guide For Patients With Renal Impairment (Dosage at Eight-Hour Intervals After the Usual Initial Dose) Serum Creatinine (mg %) Approximate Creatinine Clearance (mL/min/1.73 m 2 Percent of Usual Doses Shown in Table 3 ≤1 >100 100 1.1 - 1.3 70 - 100 80 1.4 - 1.6 55 - 70 65 1.7 - 1.9 45 - 55 55 2 - 2.2 40 - 45 50 2.3 - 2.5 35 - 40 40 2.6 - 3 30 - 35 35 3.1 - 3.5 25 - 30 30 3.6 - 4 20 - 25 25 4.1 - 5.1 15 - 20 20 5.2 - 6.6 10 - 15 15 6.7 - 8 <10 10 In adults with renal failure undergoing hemodialysis, the amount of gentamicin removed from the blood may vary depending upon several factors including the dialysis method used. An eight hour hemodialysis may reduce serum concentrations of gentamicin by approximately 50%. The recommended dosage at the end of each dialysis period is 1 to 1.7 mg/kg depending upon the severity of infection. Gentamicin Sulfate in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection is a ready-to-use isotonic solution. No dilution or buffering is required. If the prescribed dose is exactly 60, 80, or 100 mg use the appropriate container. If the prescribed dose is higher or lower than that of the supplied container adjustments can be made. If the dose is higher than the contents of a 100 mg container the additional amount should be removed from a container of gentamicin sulfate (60 mg/mL) and added to the 100 mg container. If the prescribed dose is less than that contained in a supplied container, use the container with the dose closest to (but above) the prescribed dose, removing and discarding an appropriate amount from it. Do not use plastic containers in series connection. Use only if solution is clear and container and seals are intact. If administration is controlled by a pumping device, care must be taken to discontinue pumping action before the container runs dry or air embolism may result. These solutions are intended for intravenous administration using sterile equipment. It is recommended that intravenous administration apparatus be replaced at least once every 24 hours. Instructions for the Administration of Gentamicin Sulfate in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. This product is intended for use only as an IV secondary medication unit. Use aseptic technique when removing contents from these units. Do not add other drugs to Gentamicin Sulfate in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. All injections in VIAFLEX PLUS plastic containers are intended for intravenous administration using sterile equipment.
Warnings: WARNINGS: (See BOXED WARNINGS .) Contains sodium metabisulfite, a sulfite that may cause allergic-type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people. The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low. Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in non-asthmatic people. Aminoglycosides can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Aminoglycoside antibiotics cross the placenta, and there have been several reports of total irreversible bilateral congenital deafness in children whose mothers received streptomycin during pregnancy. Serious side effects to mother, fetus or newborn have not been reported in the treatment of pregnant women with other aminoglycosides. Animal reproduction studies conducted on rats and rabbits did not reveal evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to gentamicin sulfate. It is not known whether gentamicin sulfate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity. If gentamicin is used during pregnancy or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking gentamicin, she should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. WARNINGS NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE Gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic solution is not for injection. It should never be injected subconjunctivally, nor should it be directly introduced into the anterior chamber of the eye. Risk of Ototoxicity Due to Mitochondrial DNA Variants Cases of ototoxicity with aminoglycosides have been observed in patients with certain variants in the mitochondrially encoded 12S rRNA gene ( MT-RNR1 ), particularly the m.1555A>G variant. Ototoxicity occurred in some patients even when their aminoglycoside serum levels were within the recommended range. Mitochondrial DNA variants are present in less than 1% of the general US population, and the proportion of the variant carriers who may develop ototoxicity as well as the severity of ototoxicity is unknown. In case of known maternal history of ototoxicity due to aminoglycoside use or a known mitochondrial DNA variant in the patient, consider alternative treatments other than aminoglycosides unless the increased risk of permanent hearing loss is outweighed by the severity of infection and lack of safe and effective alternative therapies. WARNINGS NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE. Gentamicin Sulfate Ophthalmic Solution is not for injection. WARNINGS (see WARNINGS box ). It is also not known whether gentamicin sulfate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity. Serious side effects to mother, fetus, or newborn have not been reported in treatment of pregnant women with other aminoglycosides. Contains sodium metabisulfite, a sulfite that may cause allergic-type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people. Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people. Risk of Ototoxicity Due to Mitochondrial DNA Variants Cases of ototoxicity with aminoglycosides have been observed in patients with certain variants in the mitochondrially encoded 12S rRNA gene (MT-RNR1), particularly the m.1555A>G variant. Gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic solution, USP is not for injection. WARNINGS (See boxed WARNINGS .) Aminoglycosides can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Solutions containing sodium ions should be used with great care, if at all, in patients with congestive heart failure, severe renal insufficiency, and in clinical states in which there exists edema with sodium retention.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS: Hypersensitivity to gentamicin is a contraindication to its use. A history of hypersensitivity or serious toxic reactions to other aminoglycosides may contraindicate use of gentamicin because of the known cross-sensitivity of patients to drugs in this class. CONTRAINDICATIONS Gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its components. CONTRAINDICATIONS Gentamicin Sulfate Ointment, USP 0.1% is contraindicated in individuals with a history of sensitivity reactions to any of its components. CONTRAINDICATIONS Gentamicin Sulfate Sterile Ophthalmic Solution is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the components. CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to gentamicin is a contraindication to its use. CONTRAINDICATIONS Gentamicin sulfate ophthalmic solution, USP is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its components. A history of hypersensitivity or serious toxic reactions to other aminoglycosides may contraindicate use of gentamicin because of known cross-sensitivity of patients to drugs in this class.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions The concurrent use of gentamicin with potent diuretics, such as ethacrynic acid or furosemide, should be avoided, since certain diuretics by themselves may cause ototoxicity. In addition, when administered intravenously, diuretics may enhance aminoglycoside toxicity by altering the antibiotic concentration in serum and tissue. Concurrent and/or sequential systemic or topical use of other potentially neurotoxic and/or nephrotoxic drugs such as cisplatin, cephaloridine, kanamycin, amikacin, neomycin, polymyxin B, colistin, paromomycin, streptomycin, tobramycin, vancomycin, and viomycin, should be avoided. Increased nephrotoxicity has been reported following concomitant administration of aminoglycoside antibiotics and cephalosporins. Neuromuscular blockade and respiratory paralysis have been reported in the cat receiving high doses (40 mg/kg) of gentamicin. The possibility of these phenomena occurring in man should be considered if aminoglycosides are administered by any route to patients receiving anesthetics, or to patients receiving neuro-muscular blocking agents, such as succinylcholine, tubocurarine, or decamethonium, or in patients receiving massive transfusions of citrate-anticoagulated blood. If neuromuscular blockade occurs, calcium salts may reverse it. Although the in vitro mixing of gentamicin and carbenicillin results in a rapid and significant inactivation of gentamicin, this interaction has not been demonstrated in patients with normal renal function who received both drugs by different routes of administration. A reduction in gentamicin serum half-life has been reported in patients with severe renal impairment receiving carbenicillin concomitantly with gentamicin. Probenecid does not affect renal tubular transport of gentamicin.

=== LIDOCAINE 5% ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Anorectal/Hemorrhoidal Topical Anesthetic, Vasoconstrictor PURPOSE Local Anaesthetic Vasoconstrictor Protective Purporse Topical Analgesic Purpose External Analgesic
Indications: For the temporary relief of pain, soreness, and burning. Helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids. Temporarily shrinks hemorrhoidal tissue. Temporarily provides a coating for the relief of anorectal discomforts. Temporarily protects the inflamed, irritated anorectal surface to help make bowel movements less painful. Helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with anorectal disorders or inflammation. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lidocaine patch 5% is indicated for relief of pain associated with post-herpetic neuralgia. It should be applied only to intact skin. USES For temporary relief of local discomfort associated with anorectal disorders. For temporary relief of pain, soreness and burning. INDICATIONS AND USAGE LIDOCAN™ III is indicated for relief of pain associated with post-herpetic neuralgia. Use Temporarily Relieves minor pain Uses Temporarily relieves the pain and itching due to anorectal disorders. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lidocan™ IV is indicated for relief of pain associated with post-herpetic neuralgia. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lidocan™ V is indicated for relief of pain associated with post-herpetic neuralgia.
Dosage: Adults: when practical, cleanse area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly. Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or soft cloth before applying. Adults and children 12 years and older: apply externally to the affected area up to 4 times a day. Children under 12 years of age: consult a doctor. When practical, cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water, rinse thoroughly, and gently pat dry. Spray the affected area, wash hands after applying. Adults and children 12 years and older : apply externally to the affected area up to 6 times a day. Apply externally to the affected area up to 4 times daily, especially at night, in the morning or after each bowel movement. For intrarectal use: attach applicator to tube. Lubricate well, then gently insert applicator into the rectum. Thoroughly cleanse applicator after use with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply lidocaine patch 5% to intact skin to cover the most painful area. Apply the prescribed number of patches (maximum of 3), only once for up to 12 hours within a 24-hour period. Patches may be cut into smaller sizes with scissors prior to removal of the release liner (see HANDLING AND DISPOSAL). Clothing may be worn over the area of application. Smaller areas of treatment are recommended in a debilitated patient, or a patient with impaired elimination. If irritation or a burning sensation occurs during application, remove the patch(es) and do not reapply until the irritation subsides. When lidocaine patch 5% is used concomitantly with other products containing local anesthetic agents, the amount absorbed from all formulations must be considered. Lidocaine patch 5% may not stick if it gets wet. Avoid contact with water, such as bathing, swimming, or showering. DIRECTIONS Children under 12 years of age: Consult a doctor. Apply externally to the affected area up to 4 times daily. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply LIDOCAN™ III to intact skin to cover the most painful area. When LIDOCAN™ III is used concomitantly with other products containing local anesthetic agents, the amount absorbed from all formulations must be considered . LIDOCAN™ III may not stick if it gets wet. Directions Adults and children over 12 years: apply a thin layer to affeced area every 6 to 8 hours, not to exceed 3 applications in a 24 hour period Children 12 years and younger: ask a doctor Local anesthetic DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply Lidocan™ IV to intact skin to cover the most painful area. When Lidocan™ IV is used concomitantly with other products containing local anesthetic agents, the amount absorbed from all formulations must be considered . Lidocan™ IV may not stick if it gets wet. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply Lidocan™ V to intact skin to cover the most painful area. When Lidocan™ V is used concomitantly with other products containing local anesthetic agents, the amount absorbed from all formulations must be considered . Lidocan™ V may not stick if it gets wet.
Warnings: For external use only. Ask a doctor before use if you have: heart disease, high blood pressure, thyroid disease, diabetes, or difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland. Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are presently taking a prescription drug for high blood pressure or depression. When using this product : avoid contact with eyes, do not exceed recommended dosage unless directed by a doctor, do not put this product into rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator. Stop use and ask a doctor if : rectal bleeding occurs, condition worsens or does not improve within seven (7) days, allergic reaction occurs to ingredients in this product, symptom being treated does not subside or if redness, irritation, swelling, pain or other symptoms develop or increase, symptoms clear up and return within a few days. Flammable-- do not use while smoking or near heat or flame. When using this product avoid contact with eyes, contents under pressure. Do not puncture or incinerate. Do not store at temperatures above 120F, do not exceed recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor, do not put this product in the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator. Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, thyroid disease, diabetes, difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland, presently taking a prescription for high blood pressure or depression. Stop use and ask a doctor if rectal bleeding occurs, the condition worsens or symptoms does not improve within 7 days, allergic reaction occurs to ingredients in this product, symptom being treated does not subside or if redness, irritation, swelling, pain or other symptoms develop or increase. Ask a healthcare or professional before use. For external and/or intrarectal use. When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage unless directed by a doctor. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve within seven (7) days, bleeding occurs, an allergic reaction develops, the symptom being treated does not subside or if redness, irritation, swelling, pain or other symptoms develop or increase. WARNINGS Risk of Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use. Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia, patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia, cardiac or pulmonary compromise, infants under 6 months of age, and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition. If local anesthetics must be used in these patients, close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended. Signs of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure, and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and/or abnormal coloration of the blood. Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise; therefore, immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects, including seizures, coma, arrhythmias, and death. Discontinue lidocaine patch 5% and any other oxidizing agents. Depending on the severity of the signs and symptoms, patients may respond to supportive care, i.e., oxygen therapy, hydration. A more severe clinical presentation may require treatment with methylene blue, exchange transfusion, or hyperbaric oxygen. Accidental Exposure in Children Even a used lidocaine patch 5% contains a large amount of lidocaine (at least 665 mg). The potential exists for a small child or a pet to suffer serious adverse effects from chewing or ingesting a new or used lidocaine patch 5%, although the risk with this formulation has not been evaluated. It is important for patients to store and dispose of lidocaine patch 5% out of the reach of children, pets, and others (see HANDLING AND DISPOSAL). Excessive Dosing Excessive dosing by applying lidocaine patch 5% to larger areas or for longer than the recommended wearing time could result in increased absorption of lidocaine and high blood concentrations, leading to serious adverse effects (see ADVERSE REACTIONS, Systemic Reactions). Lidocaine toxicity could be expected at lidocaine blood concentrations above 5 mcg/mL. The blood concentration of lidocaine is determined by the rate of systemic absorption and elimination. Longer duration of application, application of more than the recommended number of patches, smaller patients, or impaired elimination may all contribute to increasing the blood concentration of lidocaine. With recommended dosing of lidocaine patch 5%, the average peak blood concentration is about 0.13 mcg/mL, but concentrations higher than 0.25 mcg/mL have been observed in some individuals. WARNINGS For external use only. Before use ask a doctor: •if you are presently taking a prescription drug for high blood pressure or depression. When using this product: •certain persons can develop allergic reactions to ingredients in this product. •if the symptom being treated does not subside or if redness, irritation, swelling, pain, or other symptoms develop or increase, discontinue use and consult a doctor. Do not use this product if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, thyroid disease, diabetes, or difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland unless directed by a doctor. Discontinue LIDOCAN™ III and any other oxidizing agents. It is important for patients to store and dispose of LIDOCAN™ III out of the reach of children, pets, and others (see HANDLING AND DISPOSAL). Excessive Dosing Excessive dosing by applying LIDOCAN™ III to larger areas or for longer than the recommended wearing time could result in increased absorption of lidocaine and high blood concentrations, leading to serious adverse effects (see ADVERSE REACTIONS, Systemic Reactions). Warnings For external use only Do not use on large areas of the body or on cut, irritated or swollen skin on puncture wounds for more than week without consulting a doctor When using this product: use cnly as directed. Read and follow all directions and warnings on this carton do not allow contact with the eyes and mucous membranes do not bandage or apply a local heat (such as heating pads) to the area of use Stop use and aska doctor if condition worsens skin reactions occur, such as rash, itching, redness, irritation, pain, and swelling symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a days Flammable keep away from fire or flame If pregnant or breast freding , ask a health professional before use. For external use only Discontinue Lidocan™ IV and any other oxidizing agents. It is important for patients to store and dispose of Lidocan™ IV out of the reach of children, pets, and others (see HANDLING AND DISPOSAL). Excessive Dosing Excessive dosing by applying Lidocan™ IV to larger areas or for longer than the recommended wearing time could result in increased absorption of lidocaine and high blood concentrations, leading to serious adverse effects (see ADVERSE REACTIONS, Systemic Reactions). Discontinue Lidocan™ V and any other oxidizing agents. Excessive Dosing Excessive dosing by applying Lidocan™ V to larger areas or for longer than the recommended wearing time could result in increased absorption of lidocaine and high blood concentrations, leading to serious adverse effects (see ADVERSE REACTIONS, Systemic Reactions).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Lidocaine patch 5% is contraindicated in patients with a known history of sensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type, or to any other component of the product. CONTRAINDICATIONS LIDOCAN™ III is contraindicated in patients with a known history of sensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type, or to any other component of the product. CONTRAINDICATIONS Lidocan™ IV is contraindicated in patients with a known history of sensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type, or to any other component of the product. CONTRAINDICATIONS Lidocan™ V is contraindicated in patients with a known history of sensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type, or to any other component of the product.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Antiarrhythmic Drugs Lidocaine patch 5% should be used with caution in patients receiving Class I antiarrhythmic drugs (such as tocainide and mexiletine) since the toxic effects are additive and potentially synergistic. Local Anesthetics When lidocaine patch 5% is used concomitantly with other products containing local anesthetic agents, the amount absorbed from all formulations must be considered. Drugs That May Cause Methemoglobinemia When Used with Lidocaine Patch 5% Patients who are administered local anesthetics are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following drugs, which could include other local anesthetics: Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia: Class Examples Nitrates/Nitrites nitric oxide, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, nitrous oxide Local anesthetics articaine, benzocaine, bupivacaine, lidocaine, mepivacaine, prilocaine, procaine, ropivacaine, tetracaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide, flutamide, hydroxyurea, ifosfamide, rasburicase Antibiotics dapsone, nitrofurantoin, para-aminosalicylic acid, sulfonamides Antimalarials chloroquine, primaquine Anticonvulsants Phenobarbital, phenytoin, sodium valproate Other drugs acetaminophen, metoclopramide, quinine, sulfasalazine Drug Interactions Antiarrhythmic Drugs - LIDOCAN™ III should be used with caution in patients receiving Class I antiarrhythmic drugs (such as tocainide and mexiletine) since the toxic effects are additive and potentially synergistic. Local Anesthetics - When LIDOCAN™ III is used concomitantly with other products containing local anesthetic agents, the amount absorbed from all formulations must be considered. Drugs That May Cause Methemoglobinemia When Used with LIDOCAN™ III Patients who are administered local anesthetics are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following drugs, which could include other local anesthetics: Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia: Drug Drug Interactions Antiarrhythmic Drugs - Lidocan™ IV should be used with caution in patients receiving Class I antiarrhythmic drugs (such as tocainide and mexiletine) since the toxic effects are additive and potentially synergistic. Local Anesthetics - When Lidocan™ IV is used concomitantly with other products containing local anesthetic agents, the amount absorbed from all formulations must be considered. Drugs That May Cause Methemoglobinemia When Used with Lidocan™ IV Patients who are administered local anesthetics are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following drugs, which could include other local anesthetics: Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia: Drug Drug Interactions Antiarrhythmic Drugs - Lidocan™ V should be used with caution in patients receiving Class I antiarrhythmic drugs (such as tocainide and mexiletine) since the toxic effects are additive and potentially synergistic. Local Anesthetics - When Lidocan™ V is used concomitantly with other products containing local anesthetic agents, the amount absorbed from all formulations must be considered. Drugs That May Cause Methemoglobinemia When Used with Lidocan™ V Patients who are administered local anesthetics are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following drugs, which could include other local anesthetics: Examples of Drugs Associated with Methemoglobinemia: Drug

=== PHENYTOIN SODIUM ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Parenteral Phenytoin Sodium Injection is indicated for the treatment of generalized tonic-clonic status epilepticus, and prevention and treatment of seizures occurring during neurosurgery. Intravenous phenytoin can also be substituted, as short-term use, for oral phenytoin. Parenteral phenytoin should be used only when oral phenytoin administration is not possible [see Dosage and Administration (2.1, 2.3 ) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Parenteral Phenytoin Sodium Injection is indicated for the treatment of generalized tonic clonic status epilepticus and prevention and treatment of seizures occurring during neurosurgery. Parenteral phenytoin should be used only when oral phenytoin administration is not possible. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE PHENYTEK ® capsules (extended phenytoin sodium capsules) are indicated for the treatment of tonic-clonic (grand mal) and psychomotor (temporal lobe) seizures and prevention and treatment of seizures occurring during or following neurosurgery. PHENYTEK ® CAPSULES are indicated for the treatment of tonic-clonic (grand mal) and psychomotor (temporal lobe) seizures and prevention and treatment of seizures occurring during or following neurosurgery. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Extended phenytoin sodium capsules are indicated for the treatment of tonic-clonic (grand mal) and psychomotor (temporal lobe) seizures and prevention and treatment of seizures occurring during or following neurosurgery. Extended phenytoin sodium capsules are indicated for the treatment of tonic-clonic (grand mal) and psychomotor (temporal lobe) seizures and prevention and treatment of seizures occurring during or following neurosurgery.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For Status Epilepticus and Non-emergent Loading Dose: Adult loading dose is 10 to 15 mg/kg at a rate not exceeding 50 mg/min. ( 2.2 ) Pediatric loading dose is 15 to 20 mg/kg at a rate not exceeding 1 to 3 mg/kg/min or 50 mg/min, whichever is slower. ( 2.8 ) Continuous monitoring of the electrocardiogram, blood pressure, and respiratory function is essential. ( 2.2 ) Maintenance Dosing: Initial loading dose should be followed by maintenance doses of oral or intravenous Phenytoin Sodium Injection every 6 to 8 hours. ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) Intramuscular Administration: Because of erratic absorption and local toxicity, Phenytoin Sodium Injection should ordinarily not be given intramuscularly. ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) 2.1 General Dosing Information Because of the increased risk of adverse cardiovascular reactions associated with rapid administration, intravenous administration should not exceed 50 mg per minute in adults. In pediatric patients, the drug should be administered at a rate not exceeding 1 to 3 mg/kg/min or 50 mg per minute, whichever is slower. As non-emergency therapy, Phenytoin Sodium Injection should be administered more slowly as either a loading dose or by intermittent infusion. Because of the risks of cardiac and local toxicity associated with intravenous phenytoin, oral phenytoin should be used whenever possible. Because adverse cardiovascular reactions have occurred during and after infusions, careful cardiac monitoring is needed during and after the administration of intravenous Phenytoin Sodium Injection. Reduction in rate of administration or discontinuation of dosing may be needed. Because of the risk of local toxicity, intravenous Phenytoin Sodium Injection should be administered directly into a large peripheral or central vein through a large-gauge catheter. Prior to the administration, the patency of the intravenous (IV) catheter should be tested with a flush of sterile saline. Each injection of parenteral Phenytoin Sodium Injection should then be followed by a flush of sterile saline through the same catheter to avoid local venous irritation due to the alkalinity of the solution. Phenytoin Sodium Injection can be given diluted with normal saline. The addition of parenteral Phenytoin Sodium Injection to dextrose and dextrose-containing solutions should be avoided due to lack of solubility and resultant precipitation. Treatment with Phenytoin Sodium Injection can be initiated either with a loading dose or an infusion: Loading Dose: A loading dose of parenteral Phenytoin Sodium Injection should be injected slowly, not exceeding 50 mg per minute in adults and 1 to 3 mg/kg/min (or 50 mg per minute, whichever is slower) in pediatric patients. Infusion: For infusion administration, parenteral Phenytoin Sodium Injection should be diluted in normal saline with the final concentration of phenytoin sodium in the solution no less than 5 mg/mL. Administration should commence immediately after the mixture has been prepared and must be completed within 1 to 4 hours (the infusion mixture should not be refrigerated). An in-line filter (0.22 to 0.55 microns) should be used. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution or container permit. The diluted infusion mixture (Phenytoin Sodium Injection plus normal saline) should not be refrigerated. If the undiluted parenteral Phenytoin Sodium Injection is refrigerated or frozen, a precipitate might form: this will dissolve again after the solution is allowed to stand at room temperature. The product is still suitable for use. A faint yellow coloration may develop, however this has no effect on the potency of the solution. For single-dose only. After opening, any unused product should be discarded. M onitoring Levels: Trough levels provide information about clinically effective serum level range and are obtained just prior to the patient’s next scheduled dose. Peak levels indicate an individual’s threshold for emergence of dose-related side effects and are obtained at the time of expected peak concentration. Therapeutic effect without clinical signs of toxicity occurs more often with serum total concentrations between 10 and 20 mcg/mL (unbound phenytoin concentrations of 1 to 2 mcg/mL), although some mild cases of tonic-clonic (grand mal) epilepsy may be controlled with lower serum levels of phenytoin. In patients with renal or hepatic disease, or in those with hypoalbuminemia, the monitoring of unbound phenytoin concentrations may be more relevant [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . 2.2 Status Epilepticus In adults, a loading dose of 10 to 15 mg/kg should be administered slowly intravenously, at a rate not exceeding 50 mg per minute (this will require approximately 20 minutes in a 70-kg patient). The loading dose should be followed by maintenance doses of 100 mg orally or intravenously every 6 to 8 hours. In the pediatric population, a loading dose of 15 to 20 mg/kg of phenytoin sodium intravenously will usually produce serum concentrations of phenytoin within the generally accepted serum total concentrations between 10 and 20 mcg/mL (unbound phenytoin concentrations of 1 to 2 mcg/mL). The drug should be injected slowly intravenously at a rate not exceeding 1 to 3 mg/kg/min or 50 mg per minute, whichever is slower. Continuous monitoring of the electrocardiogram and blood pressure is essential. The patient should be observed for signs of respiratory depression. Determination of phenytoin serum levels is advised when using phenytoin in the management of status epilepticus and in the subsequent establishment of maintenance dosage. Other measures, including concomitant administration of an intravenous benzodiazepine such as diazepam, or an intravenous short-acting barbiturate, will usually be necessary for rapid control of seizures because of the required slow rate of administration of phenytoin. If administration of parenteral Phenytoin Sodium Injection does not terminate seizures, the use of other anticonvulsants, intravenous barbiturates, general anesthesia, and other appropriate measures should be considered. Intramuscular administration should not be used in the treatment of status epilepticus because the attainment of peak serum levels may require up to 24 hours. 2.3 Non-emergent Loading and Maintenance Dosing Because of the risks of cardiac and local toxicity associated with intravenous phenytoin, oral phenytoin should be used whenever possible. In adults, a loading dose of 10 to 15 mg/kg should be administered slowly. The rate of intravenous administration should not exceed 50 mg per minute in adults and 1 to 3 mg/kg/min (or 50 mg per minute, whichever is slower) in pediatric patients. Slower administration rates are recommended to minimize the cardiovascular adverse reactions. Continuous monitoring of the electrocardiogram, blood pressure, and respiratory function is essential. The loading dose should be followed by maintenance doses of oral or intravenous phenytoin every 6 to 8 hours. Ordinarily, Phenytoin Sodium Injection should not be given intramuscularly because of the risk of necrosis, abscess formation, and erratic absorption. If intramuscular administration is required, compensating dosage adjustments are necessary to maintain therapeutic serum levels. An intramuscular dose 50% greater than the oral dose is necessary to maintain these levels. When returned to oral administration, the dose should be reduced by 50% of the original oral dose for one week to prevent excessive serum levels due to sustained release from intramuscular tissue sites. Monitoring serum levels would help prevent a fall into the subtherapeutic range. Serum blood level determinations are especially helpful when possible drug interactions are suspected. 2.4 Parenteral Substitution for Oral Phenytoin Therapy When treatment with oral phenytoin is not possible, IV phenytoin can be substituted for oral phenytoin at the same total daily dose. Phenytoin capsules are approximately 90% bioavailable by the oral route. Phenytoin is 100% bioavailable by the IV route. For this reason, serum phenytoin concentrations may increase modestly when IV phenytoin is substituted for oral phenytoin sodium therapy. The rate of administration for IV phenytoin should be no greater than 50 mg per minute in adults and 1 to 3 mg/kg/min (or 50 mg per minute, whichever is slower) in pediatric patients. When intramuscular administration may be required, a sufficient dose must be administered intramuscularly to maintain the serum level within the therapeutic range. Where oral dosage is resumed following intramuscular usage, the oral dose should be properly adjusted to compensate for the slow, continuing IM absorption to minimize toxic symptoms [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Serum concentrations should be monitored and care should be taken when switching a patient from the sodium salt to the free acid form. Phenytoin Sodium Injection is formulated with the sodium salt of phenytoin. Because there is approximately an 8% increase in drug content with the free acid form over that of the sodium salt, dosage adjustments and serum level monitoring may be necessary when switching from a product formulated with the free acid to a product formulated with the sodium salt and vice versa. 2.5 Dosing in Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment or Hypoalbuminemia Because the fraction of unbound phenytoin is increased in patients with renal or hepatic disease, or in those with hypoalbuminemia, the monitoring of phenytoin serum levels should be based on the unbound fraction in those patients. 2.6 Dosing in Geriatrics Phenytoin clearance is decreased slightly in elderly patients and lower or less frequent dosing may be required [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.7 Dosing During Pregnancy Decreased serum concentrations of phenytoin may occur during pregnancy because of altered phenytoin pharmacokinetics. Periodic measurement of serum phenytoin concentrations should be performed during pregnancy, and the Phenytoin Sodium Injection dosage should be adjusted as necessary. Postpartum restoration of the original dosage will probably be indicated [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ]. Because of potential changes in protein binding during pregnancy, the monitoring of phenytoin serum levels should be based on the unbound fraction. 2.8 Dosing in Pediatrics A loading dose of 15 to 20 mg/kg of Phenytoin Sodium Injection intravenously will usually produce serum concentrations of phenytoin within the generally accepted serum total concentrations between 10 and 20 mcg/mL (unbound phenytoin concentrations of 1 to 2 mcg/mL). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Adult starting dose in patients who have received no previous treatment is one 100 mg extended phenytoin sodium capsule three times a day, with dose adjustments as necessary. For most adults, the satisfactory maintenance dose will be one capsule three to four times a day. An increase, up to two capsules three times a day may be made, if necessary. ( 2.1 ) • Adult once-a-day dose: If seizure control is established with divided doses of three 100 mg extended phenytoin sodium capsules daily, once-a-day dosage with 300 mg PHENYTEK ® capsules may be considered. ( 2.1 ) • Adult loading dose: reserved for patients in a clinic or hospital setting who require rapid steady-state serum levels and where intravenous administration is not desired. Refer to full prescribing information. ( 2.1 ) • Pediatric starting dose is 5 mg/kg/day in two to three equally divided doses, with dosage adjustments as necessary, up to a maximum of 300 mg daily. Maintenance dosage is 4 to 8 mg/kg/day. ( 2.2 ) • Serum blood level determinations may be necessary for optimal dosage adjustments—the clinically effective serum total concentration is 10 to 20 mcg/mL (unbound phenytoin concentration is 1 to 2 mcg/mL). ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Adult Dosage Divided Daily Dosage The recommended starting dose for adult patients who have received no previous treatment is one 100-mg extended phenytoin sodium capsule by mouth three times daily. Adjust the dosage to suit individual requirements up to a maximum of two capsules three times a day. For most adults, the satisfactory maintenance dosage will be one capsule three to four times a day. Once-a-Day Dosage In adults, if seizure control is established with divided doses of three 100-mg extended phenytoin sodium capsules daily, once-a-day dosage with 300 mg of PHENYTEK ® capsules may be considered. Studies comparing divided doses of 300 mg with a single daily dose of this quantity indicated absorption, peak serum levels, biologic half-life, difference between peak and minimum values, and urinary recovery were equivalent. Once-a-day dosage offers a convenience to the individual patient or to nursing personnel for institutionalized patients and is intended to be used only for patients requiring this amount of drug daily. A major problem in motivating noncompliant patients may also be lessened when the patient can take this drug once a day. However, patients should be cautioned not to miss a dose, inadvertently. Only PHENYTEK ® capsules are recommended for once-a-day dosing. Inherent differences in dissolution characteristics and resultant absorption rates of phenytoin due to different manufacturing procedures and/or dosage forms preclude such recommendation for other phenytoin products. When a change in the dosage form or brand is prescribed, careful monitoring of phenytoin serum levels should be carried out. Loading Dose Some authorities have advocated use of an oral loading dose of phenytoin in adults who require rapid steady-state serum levels and where intravenous administration is not desirable. This dosing regimen should be reserved for patients in a clinic or hospital setting where phenytoin serum levels can be closely monitored. Patients with a history of renal or liver disease should not receive the oral loading regimen. Initially, one gram of PHENYTEK ® capsules is divided into three doses (400 mg, 300 mg, 300 mg) and administered at two-hour intervals. Normal maintenance dosage is then instituted 24 hours after the loading dose, with frequent serum level determinations. 2.2 Pediatric Dosage The recommended starting dosage for pediatric patients is 5 mg/kg/day by mouth in two or three equally divided doses, with subsequent dosage individualized to a maximum of 300 mg daily in divided doses. A recommended daily maintenance dosage is usually 4 to 8 mg/kg/day in equally divided doses. Children over 6 years and adolescents may require the minimum adult dosage (300 mg/day). 2.3 Dosage Adjustments Dosage should be individualized to provide maximum benefit. In some cases, serum blood level determinations may be necessary for optimal dosage adjustments. Trough levels provide information about clinically effective serum level range and confirm patient compliance, and are obtained just prior to the patient’s next scheduled dose. Therapeutic effect without clinical signs of toxicity occurs more often with serum total concentrations between 10 and 20 mcg/mL (unbound phenytoin concentrations between 1 and 2 mcg/mL), although some mild cases of tonic-clonic (grand mal) epilepsy may be controlled with lower serum levels of phenytoin. In patients with renal or hepatic disease, or in those with hypoalbuminemia, the monitoring of unbound phenytoin concentrations may be more relevant [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ] . With recommended dosage, a period of seven to ten days may be required to achieve steady-state blood levels with phenytoin and changes in dosage (increase or decrease) should not be carried out at intervals shorter than seven to ten days. 2.4 Switching Between Phenytoin Formulations The free acid form of phenytoin is used in DILANTIN-125 ® Suspension and DILANTIN ® Infatabs ® . PHENYTEK ® capsules and parenteral phenytoin are formulated with the sodium salt of phenytoin. 2.5 Dosing in Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment or Hypoalbuminemia Because the fraction of unbound phenytoin is increased in patients with renal or hepatic disease, or in those with hypoalbuminemia, the monitoring of phenytoin serum levels should be based on the unbound fraction in those patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . 2.6 Geriatric Dosage Phenytoin clearance is decreased slightly in elderly patients and lower or less frequent dosing may be required [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Periodic measurement of serum phenytoin concentrations should be performed during pregnancy, and the phenytoin sodium dosage should be adjusted as necessary. Postpartum restoration of the original dosage will probably be indicated [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult starting dose in patients who have received no previous treatment is one 100 mg extended phenytoin sodium capsule three times a day, with dose adjustments as necessary. ( 2.1 ) Adult once-a-day dose: If seizure control is established with divided doses of three 100 mg extended phenytoin sodium capsules daily, once-a-day dosage with 300 mg extended phenytoin sodium capsules may be considered. ( 2.1 ) Adult loading dose: reserved for patients in a clinic or hospital setting who require rapid steady-state serum levels and where intravenous administration is not desired. ( 2.1 ) Pediatric starting dose is 5 mg/kg/day in two to three equally divided doses, with dosage adjustments as necessary, up to a maximum of 300 mg daily. Maintenance dosage is 4 mg/kg/day to 8 mg/kg/day. ( 2.2 ) Serum blood level determinations may be necessary for optimal dosage adjustments—the clinically effective serum total concentration is 10 mcg/mL to 20 mcg/mL (unbound phenytoin concentration is 1 mcg/mL to 2 mcg/mL). ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Adult Dosage Divided daily dosage: The recommended starting dose for adult patients who have received no previous treatment is one 100-mg extended phenytoin sodium capsule by mouth three times daily. Once-a-day dosage: In adults, if seizure control is established with divided doses of three 100-mg extended phenytoin sodium capsules daily, once-a-day dosage with 300 mg of extended phenytoin sodium capsules may be considered. Only extended phenytoin sodium capsules are recommended for once-a-day dosing. Loading dose: Some authorities have advocated use of an oral loading dose of phenytoin in adults who require rapid steady-state serum levels and where intravenous administration is not desirable. Initially, one gram of extended phenytoin sodium capsules is divided into three doses (400 mg, 300 mg, 300 mg) and administered at two-hour intervals. A recommended daily maintenance dosage is usually 4 mg/kg/day to 8 mg/kg/day in equally divided doses. Trough levels provide information about clinically effective serum level range and confirm patient compliance, and are obtained just prior to the patient's next scheduled dose. Peak levels indicate an individual's threshold for emergence of dose-related side effects and are obtained at the time of expected peak concentration. Therapeutic effect without clinical signs of toxicity occurs more often with serum total concentrations between 10 mcg/mL and 20 mcg/mL (unbound phenytoin concentrations between 1 mcg/mL and 2 mcg/mL), although some mild cases of tonic-clonic (grand mal) epilepsy may be controlled with lower serum levels of phenytoin. In patients with renal or hepatic disease, or in those with hypoalbuminemia, the monitoring of unbound phenytoin concentrations may be more relevant [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) ]. 2.4 Switching Between Phenytoin Formulations The free acid form of phenytoin is used in phenytoin oral suspension and phenytoin chewable tablets. Extended phenytoin sodium capsules and parenteral phenytoin are formulated with the sodium salt of phenytoin. Periodic measurement of serum phenytoin concentrations should be performed during pregnancy, and the extended phenytoin sodium capsule dosage should be adjusted as necessary. ( 2.1 ) Adult once-a-day dose: If seizure control is established with divided doses of three 100 mg extended phenytoin sodium capsules daily, once-a-day dosage with 300 mg PHENYTEK ® capsules may be considered. ( 2.2 ) Serum blood level determinations may be necessary for optimal dosage adjustments—the clinically effective serum total concentration is 10 to 20 mcg/mL (unbound phenytoin concentration is 1 to 2 mcg/mL). ( 2.1 ) • Adult once-a-day dose: If seizure control is established with divided doses of three 100 mg extended phenytoin sodium capsules daily, once-a-day dosage with 300 mg extended phenytoin sodium capsules may be considered. ( 2.2 ) • Serum blood level determinations may be necessary for optimal dosage adjustments—the clinically effective serum total concentration is 10 mcg/mL to 20 mcg/mL (unbound phenytoin concentration is 1 mcg/mL to 2 mcg/mL).
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Phenytoin Sodium Injection is contraindicated in patients with: A history of hypersensitivity to phenytoin, its inactive ingredients, or other hydantoins [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Sinus bradycardia, sino-atrial block, second and third degree A-V block, and Adams-Stokes syndrome because of the effect of parenteral phenytoin on ventricular automaticity. A history of prior acute hepatotoxicity attributable to phenytoin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Coadministration with delavirdine because of the potential for loss of virologic response and possible resistance to delavirdine or to the class of non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors Hypersensitivity to phenytoin, its ingredients, or other hydantoins ( 4 ) Sinus bradycardia, sino-atrial block, second and third degree A-V block, and Adams-Stokes syndrome ( 4 ) A history of prior acute hepatotoxicity attributable to phenytoin ( 4 , 5.6 ) Coadministration with delavirdine ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS PHENYTEK ® capsules are contraindicated in patients with: • A history of hypersensitivity to phenytoin, its inactive ingredients, or other hydantoins [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Reactions have included angioedema. • A history of prior acute hepatotoxicity attributable to phenytoin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . • Coadministration with delavirdine because of the potential for loss of virologic response and possible resistance to delavirdine or to the class of non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors. • Hypersensitivity to phenytoin, its ingredients, or other hydantoins ( 4 , 5.5 ) • A history of prior acute hepatotoxicity attributable to phenytoin ( 4 , 5.8 ) • Coadministration with delavirdine ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Extended phenytoin sodium capsules are contraindicated in patients with: A history of hypersensitivity to phenytoin, its inactive ingredients, or other hydantoins [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . A history of prior acute hepatotoxicity attributable to phenytoin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Coadministration with delavirdine because of the potential for loss of virologic response and possible resistance to delavirdine or to the class of non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors. Hypersensitivity to phenytoin, its ingredients, or other hydantoins ( 4 , 5.5 ) A history of prior acute hepatotoxicity attributable to phenytoin ( 4 , 5.8 ) Coadministration with delavirdine ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS PHENYTEK ® capsules are contraindicated in patients with: A history of hypersensitivity to phenytoin, its inactive ingredients, or other hydantoins [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . A history of prior acute hepatotoxicity attributable to phenytoin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Extended phenytoin sodium capsules are contraindicated in patients with: • A history of hypersensitivity to phenytoin, its inactive ingredients, or other hydantoins [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . • A history of prior acute hepatotoxicity attributable to phenytoin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ].
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Phenytoin is extensively bound to plasma proteins and is prone to competitive displacement. Phenytoin is primarily metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 enzymes CYP2C9 and to a lesser extent by CYP2C19 and is particularly susceptible to inhibitory drug interactions because it is subject to saturable metabolism. Inhibition of metabolism may produce significant increases in circulating phenytoin concentrations and enhance the risk of drug toxicity. Monitoring of phenytoin serum levels is recommended when a drug interaction is suspected. Phenytoin is a potent inducer of hepatic drug-metabolizing enzymes. Multiple drug interactions because of extensive plasma protein binding, saturable metabolism and potent induction of hepatic enzymes. ( 7.1 , 7.2 ) 7.1 Drugs That Affect Phenytoin Concentrations Table 1 includes commonly occurring drug interactions that affect phenytoin concentrations. However, this list is not intended to be inclusive or comprehensive. Individual prescribing information from relevant drugs should be consulted. The addition or withdrawal of these agents in patients on phenytoin therapy may require an adjustment of the phenytoin dose to achieve optimal clinical outcome. Table 1: Drugs That Affect Phenytoin Concentrations Interacting Agent Examples Drugs that may increase phenytoin serum levels Antiepileptic drugs Ethosuximide, felbamate, oxcarbazepine, methsuximide, topiramate Azoles Fluconazole, ketoconazole, itraconazole, miconazole, voriconazole Antineoplastic agents Capecitabine, fluorouracil Antidepressants Fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, sertraline Gastric acid reducing agents H 2 antagonists (cimetidine), omeprazole Sulfonamides Sulfamethizole, sulfaphenazole, sulfadiazine, sulfamethoxazole trimethoprim Other Acute alcohol intake, amiodarone, chloramphenicol, chlordiazepoxide, disulfiram, estrogen, fluvastatin, isoniazid, methylphenidate, phenothiazines, salicylates, ticlopidine, tolbutamide, trazodone, warfarin Drugs that may decrease phenytoin serum levels Antineoplastic agents usually in combination Bleomycin, carboplatin, cisplatin, doxorubicin, methotrexate Antiviral agents Fosamprenavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir Antiepileptic drugs Carbamazepine, vigabatrin Other Chronic alcohol abuse, diazepam, diazoxide, folic acid, reserpine, rifampin, St. John’s wort b , theophylline Drugs that may either increase or decrease phenytoin serum levels Antiepileptic drugs Phenobarbital, valproate sodium, valproic acid b The induction potency of St. John’s wort may vary widely based on preparation. 7.2 Drugs Affected by Phenytoin Table 2 includes commonly occurring drug interactions affected by phenytoin. Individual drug package inserts should be consulted. The addition or withdrawal of phenytoin during concomitant therapy with these agents may require adjustment of the dose of these agents to achieve optimal clinical outcome. Table 2: Drugs Affected by Phenytoin Interacting Agent Examples Drugs whose efficacy is impaired by phenytoin Azoles Fluconazole, ketoconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole Antineoplastic agents Irinotecan, paclitaxel, teniposide Delavirdine Phenytoin can substantially reduce the concentrations of delavirdine. This can lead to loss of virologic response and possible resistance [see Contraindications (4) ]. Neuromuscular blocking agents Cisatracurium, pancuronium, rocuronium and vecuronium: resistance to the neuromuscular blocking action of the nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents has occurred in patients chronically administered phenytoin. Whether or not phenytoin has the same effect on other non-depolarizing agents is unknown. Prevention or Management : Patients should be monitored closely for more rapid recovery from neuromuscular blockade than expected, and infusion rate requirements may be higher. Warfarin Increased and decreased PT/INR responses have been reported when phenytoin is coadministered with warfarin Other Corticosteroids, doxycycline, estrogens, furosemide, oral contraceptives, paroxetine, quinidine, rifampin, sertraline, theophylline, and vitamin D Drugs whose level is decreased by phenytoin Antiepileptic drugs a Carbamazepine, felbamate, lamotrigine, topiramate, oxcarbazepine Antilipidemic agents Atorvastatin, fluvastatin, simvastatin Antiviral agents Efavirenz, lopinavir/ritonavir, indinavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir Fosamprenavir: phenytoin when given with fosamprenavir alone may decrease the concentration of amprenavir, the active metabolite. Phenytoin when given with the combination of fosamprenavir and ritonavir may increase the concentration of amprenavir Calcium channel blockers Nifedipine, nimodipine, nisoldipine, verapamil Other Albendazole (decreases active metabolite), chlorpropamide, clozapine, cyclosporine, digoxin, disopyramide, folic acid, methadone, mexiletine, praziquantel, quetiapine a The effect of phenytoin on phenobarbital, valproic acid and sodium valproate serum levels is unpredictable 7.3 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Care should be taken when using immunoanalytical methods to measure serum phenytoin concentrations following fosphenytoin administration. Phenytoin is primarily metabolized by the hepatic cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP2C9 and to a lesser extent by CYP2C19, and is particularly susceptible to inhibitory drug interactions because it is subject to saturable metabolism. ( 7.1 , 7.2 ) 7.1 Drugs that Affect Phenytoin Concentrations Table 2 includes commonly occurring drug interactions that affect phenytoin concentrations. Table 2: Drugs That Affect Phenytoin Concentrations Interacting Agent Examples Drugs that may increase phenytoin serum levels Antiepileptic drugs Ethosuximide, felbamate, oxcarbazepine, methsuximide, topiramate Azoles Fluconazole, ketoconazole, itraconazole, miconazole, voriconazole Antineoplastic agents Capecitabine, fluorouracil Antidepressants Fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, sertraline Gastric acid reducing agents H 2 antagonists (cimetidine), omeprazole Sulfonamides Sulfamethizole, sulfaphenazole, sulfadiazine, sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim Other Acute alcohol intake, amiodarone, chloramphenicol, chlordiazepoxide, disulfiram, estrogen, fluvastatin, isoniazid, methylphenidate, phenothiazines, salicylates, ticlopidine, tolbutamide, trazodone, warfarin Drugs that may decrease phenytoin serum levels Antacids Antacids may affect absorption of phenytoin. Calcium carbonate, aluminum hydroxide, magnesium hydroxide Prevention or Management: Phenytoin and antacids should not be taken at the same time of day Antineoplastic agents usually in combination Bleomycin, carboplatin, cisplatin, doxorubicin, methotrexate Antiviral agents Fosamprenavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir Antiepileptic drugs Carbamazepine, vigabatrin Other Chronic alcohol abuse, diazepam, diazoxide, folic acid, reserpine, rifampin, St. John’s wort The induction potency of St. , sucralfate, theophylline Drugs that may either increase or decrease phenytoin serum levels Antiepileptic drugs Phenobarbital, valproate sodium Valproate sodium and valproic acid are similar medications. The term valproate has been used to represent these medications. , valproic acid 7.2 Drugs Affected by Phenytoin Table 3 includes commonly occurring drug interactions affected by phenytoin. Table 3: Drugs Affected by Phenytoin Interacting Agent Examples Drugs whose efficacy is impaired by phenytoin Azoles Fluconazole, ketoconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole Antineoplastic agents Irinotecan, paclitaxel, teniposide Delavirdine Phenytoin can substantially reduce the concentrations of delavirdine. This can lead to loss of virologic response and possible resistance [see Contraindications (4) ] . Prevention or Management: Patients should be monitored closely for more rapid recovery from neuromuscular blockade than expected, and infusion rate requirements may be higher. Warfarin Increased and decreased PT/INR responses have been reported when phenytoin is coadministered with warfarin Other Corticosteroids, doxycycline, estrogens, furosemide, oral contraceptives, paroxetine, quinidine, rifampin, sertraline, theophylline, and vitamin D Drugs whose level is decreased by phenytoin Anticoagulants Apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban, rivaroxaban Antiepileptic drugs The effect of phenytoin on phenobarbital, valproic acid and sodium valproate serum levels is unpredictable Carbamazepine, felbamate, lamotrigine, topiramate, oxcarbazepine, lacosamide Antilipidemic agents Atorvastatin, fluvastatin, simvastatin Antiplatelets Ticagrelor Antiviral agents Efavirenz, lopinavir/ritonavir, indinavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir Fosamprenavir: phenytoin when given with fosamprenavir alone may decrease the concentration of amprenavir, the active metabolite. Phenytoin when given with the combination of fosamprenavir and ritonavir may increase the concentration of amprenavir Calcium channel blockers Nifedipine, nimodipine, nisoldipine, verapamil Other Albendazole (decreases active metabolite), chlorpropamide, clozapine, cyclosporine, digoxin, disopyramide, folic acid, methadone, mexiletine, praziquantel, quetiapine 7.3 Hyperammonemia with Concomitant Use of Valproate Concomitant administration of phenytoin and valproate has been associated with an increased risk of valproate-associated hyperammonemia. Patients treated concomitantly with these two drugs should be monitored for signs and symptoms of hyperammonemia. 7.4 Drug Enteral Feeding/Nutritional Preparations Interaction Literature reports suggest that patients who have received enteral feeding preparations and/or related nutritional supplements have lower than expected phenytoin serum levels. It is therefore suggested that phenytoin not be administered concomitantly with an enteral feeding preparation. More frequent serum phenytoin level monitoring may be necessary in these patients. 7.5 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Care should be taken when using immunoanalytical methods to measure serum phenytoin concentrations. Calcium carbonate, aluminum hydroxide, magnesium hydroxide Prevention or Management : Phenytoin and antacids should not be taken at the same time of day Antineoplastic agents usually in combination Bleomycin, carboplatin, cisplatin, doxorubicin, methotrexate Antiviral agents Fosamprenavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir Antiepileptic drugs Carbamazepine, vigabatrin Other Chronic alcohol abuse, diazepam, diazoxide, folic acid, reserpine, rifampin, St. John's wort The induction potency of St. John's wort may vary widely based on preparation.

=== PIRFENIDONE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pirfenidone capsules are indicated for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). Pirfenidone is a pyridone indicated for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pirfenidone tablets are indicated for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pirfenidone is indicated for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pirfenidone tablet is indicated for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). Pirfenidone tablet is a pyridone indicated for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). Pirfenidone tablets are a pyridone indicated for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF).
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take with food. Recommended dosage: 801 mg three times daily (2,403 mg/day). (2) Upon initiation of treatment, titrate to the full dosage of 2,403 mg/day over a 14-day period as follows: Treatment days Dosage Days 1 through 7 267 mg three times daily (801 mg/day) Days 8 through 14 534 mg three times daily (1,602 mg/day) Days 15 onward 801 mg three times daily (2,403 mg/day) Consider temporary dosage reduction, treatment interruption, or discontinuation for management of adverse reactions. ( 2.3 , 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4 ) Prior to treatment, conduct liver function tests. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Testing Prior to Pirfenidone Capsules Administration Conduct liver function tests prior to initiating treatment with pirfenidone capsules [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 2.2 Recommended Dosage The recommended daily maintenance dosage of pirfenidone capsule is 801 mg three times daily for a total of 2,403 mg/day. Doses should be taken with food at the same time each day. Upon initiation of treatment, titrate to the full dosage of 2,403 mg/day over a 14-day period as follows: Table 1: Dosage Titration for Pirfenidone Capsules in Patients with IPF Treatment days Dosage Days 1 through 7 267 mg three times daily (801 mg/day) Days 8 through 14 534 mg three times daily (1,602 mg/day) Days 15 onward 801 mg three times daily (2,403 mg/day) Dosages above 2,403 mg/day are not recommended for any patient. Patients should not take 2 doses at the same time to make up for a missed dose. Patients should not take more than 3 doses per day. 2.3 Dosage Modifications due to Adverse Reactions Patients who miss 14 or more days of pirfenidone capsules should re-initiate treatment by undergoing the initial 2-week titration regimen up to the full maintenance dosage [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] . For treatment interruption of less than 14 days, the dosage prior to the interruption can be resumed. If patients experience significant adverse reactions (i.e. gastrointestinal, photosensitivity reaction or rash, severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCAR)), consider temporary dosage reductions or interruptions of pirfenidone capsules to allow for resolution of symptoms. If a SCAR is confirmed, permanently discontinue pirfenidone capsules [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4 )] . Dosage Modification due to Elevated Liver Enzymes Dosage modifications or interruptions may also be necessary when liver enzyme and bilirubin elevations are exhibited. For liver enzyme elevations, modify the dosage as follows: If a patient exhibits >3 but ≤5 × the upper limit of normal (ULN) ALT and/or AST without symptoms or hyperbilirubinemia after starting pirfenidone capsules therapy: Discontinue confounding medications, exclude other causes, and monitor the patient closely. Repeat liver chemistry tests as clinically indicated. The full daily dosage may be maintained, if clinically appropriate, or reduced or interrupted (e.g., until liver chemistry tests are within normal limits) with subsequent re-titration to the full dosage as tolerated. If a patient exhibits >3 but ≤5 × ULN ALT and/or AST accompanied by symptoms or hyperbilirubinemia: Permanently discontinue pirfenidone capsules. Do not rechallenge patient with pirfenidone capsules. If a patient exhibits >5 × ULN ALT and/or AST: Permanently discontinue pirfenidone capsules. 2.4 Dosage Modifications due to Drug Interactions Strong CYP1A2 Inhibitors (e.g., fluvoxamine, enoxacin) Reduce pirfenidone capsules to 267 mg three times a day (801 mg/day). Moderate CYP1A2 Inhibitors (e.g., ciprofloxacin) With use of ciprofloxacin at a dosage of 750 mg twice daily, reduce pirfenidone capsules to 534 mg three times a day (1,602 mg/day). (2.3 , 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3, 5.4) Prior to treatment, conduct liver function tests. (2.1) 2.1 Testing Prior to Pirfenidone Tablets Administration Conduct liver function tests prior to initiating treatment with pirfenidone tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 2.2 Recommended Dosage The recommended daily maintenance dosage of pirfenidone tablet is 801 mg three times daily for a total of 2,403 mg/day. Upon initiation of treatment, titrate to the full dosage of 2,403 mg/day over a 14-day period as follows: Table 1: Dosage Titration for Pirfenidone Tablets in Patients with IPF Treatment days Dosage Days 1 through 7 267 mg three times daily (801 mg/day) Days 8 through 14 534 mg three times daily (1,602 mg/day) Days 15 onward 801 mg three times daily (2,403 mg/day) Dosages above 2,403 mg/day are not recommended for any patient. 2.3 Dosage Modifications due to Adverse Reactions Patients who miss 14 or more days of pirfenidone tablets should re-initiate treatment by undergoing the initial 2-week titration regimen up to the full maintenance dosage [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] . gastrointestinal, photosensitivity reaction or rash, severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCAR)), consider temporary dosage reductions or interruptions of pirfenidone tablets to allow for resolution of symptoms. If a SCAR is confirmed, permanently discontinue pirfenidone tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4) ] . For liver enzyme elevations, modify the dosage as follows: If a patient exhibits > 3 but ≤ 5 × the upper limit of normal (ULN) ALT and/or AST without symptoms or hyperbilirubinemia after starting pirfenidone tablets therapy: Discontinue confounding medications, exclude other causes, and monitor the patient closely. If a patient exhibits > 3 but ≤ 5 × ULN ALT and/or AST accompanied by symptoms or hyperbilirubinemia: Permanently discontinue pirfenidone tablets. Do not rechallenge patient with pirfenidone tablets. If a patient exhibits > 5 × ULN ALT and/or AST: Permanently discontinue pirfenidone tablets. 2.4 Dosage Modifications due to Drug Interactions Strong CYP1A2 Inhibitors (e.g., fluvoxamine, enoxacin) Reduce pirfenidone tablets to 267 mg three times a day (801 mg/day). Moderate CYP1A2 Inhibitors (e.g., ciprofloxacin) With use of ciprofloxacin at a dosage of 750 mg twice daily, reduce pirfenidone tablets to 534 mg three times a day (1,602 mg/day). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ​ Take with food. Recommended dosage: 801 mg three times daily (2403 mg/day). ( 2 ) Upon initiation of treatment, titrate to the full dosage of 2403 mg/day over a 14-day period as follows: Treatment days Dosage Days 1 through 7 267 mg three times daily (801 mg/day) Days 8 through 14 534 mg three times daily (1602 mg/day) Days 15 onward 801 mg three times daily (2403 mg/day) Consider temporary dosage reduction, treatment interruption, or discontinuation for management of adverse reactions. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Testing Prior to Pirfenidone Administration Conduct liver function tests prior to initiating treatment with pirfenidone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 2.2 Recommended Dosage The recommended daily maintenance dosage of pirfenidone is 801 mg three times daily for a total of 2403 mg/day. Upon initiation of treatment, titrate to the full dosage of 2403 mg/day over a 14-day period as follows: Table 1. Dosage Titration for pirfenidone in Patients with IPF Treatment days Dosage Days 1 through 7 267 mg three times daily (801 mg/day) Days 8 through 14 534 mg three times daily (1602 mg/day) Days 15 onward 801 mg three times daily (2403 mg/day) Dosages above 2403 mg/day are not recommended for any patient. 2.3 Dosage Modifications due to Adverse Reactions Patients who miss 14 or more days of pirfenidone should re-initiate treatment by undergoing the initial 2-week titration regimen up to the full maintenance dosage [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] . If patients experience significant adverse reactions (i.e., gastrointestinal, photosensitivity reaction or rash, severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCAR)), consider temporary dosage reductions or interruptions of pirfenidone to allow for resolution of symptoms. If a SCAR is confirmed, permanently discontinue pirfenidone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4 )] . For liver enzyme elevations, modify the dosage as follows: If a patient exhibits >3 but ≤5 × the upper limit of normal (ULN) ALT and/or AST without symptoms or hyperbilirubinemia after starting pirfenidone therapy: Discontinue confounding medications, exclude other causes, and monitor the patient closely. The full daily dosage may be maintained, if clinically appropriate, or reduced or interrupted (e.g., until liver chemistry tests are within normal limits) with subsequent retitration to the full dosage as tolerated. If a patient exhibits >3 but ≤5 × ULN ALT and/or AST accompanied by symptoms or hyperbilirubinemia: Permanently discontinue pirfenidone. Do not rechallenge patient with pirfenidone. If a patient exhibits >5 × ULN ALT and/or AST: Permanently discontinue pirfenidone. 2.4 Dosage Modifications due to Drug Interactions Strong CYP1A2 Inhibitors (e.g., fluvoxamine, enoxacin) Reduce pirfenidone to 267 mg three times a day (801 mg/day). Moderate CYP1A2 Inhibitors (e.g., ciprofloxacin) With use of ciprofloxacin at a dosage of 750 mg twice daily, reduce pirfenidone to 534 mg three times a day (1602 mg/day). ( 2.3 , 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 ) Prior to treatment, conduct liver function tests. If patients experience significant adverse reactions (i.e., gastrointestinal, photosensitivity reaction or rash), consider temporary dosage reductions or interruptions of pirfenidone to allow for resolution of symptoms [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3) ] . 2.4 Dosage Modification due to Drug Interactions Strong CYP1A2 Inhibitors (e.g., fluvoxamine, enoxacin) Reduce pirfenidone to 267 mg three times a day (801 mg/day). ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Testing Prior to Pirfenidone Tablets Administration Conduct liver function tests prior to initiating treatment with pirfenidone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 2.3 Dosage Modifications due to Adverse Reactions Patients who miss 14 or more days of pirfenidone should re-initiate treatment by undergoing the initial 2-week titration regimen up to the full maintenance dosage [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. If patients experience significant adverse reactions (i.e., gastrointestinal, photosensitivity reaction or rash), consider temporary dosage reductions or interruptions of pirfenidone to allow for resolution of symptoms [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3) ]. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Testing Prior to Pirfenidone Tablet Administration Conduct liver function tests prior to initiating treatment with pirfenidone tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 2.2 Recommended Dosage The recommended daily maintenance dosage of pirfenidone tablet is 801 mg three times daily for a total of 2403 mg/day. Dosage Titration for Pirfenidone Tablets in Patients with IPF Treatment days Dosage Days 1 through 7 267 mg three times daily (801 mg/day) Days 8 through 14 534 mg three times daily (1602 mg/day) Days 15 onward 801 mg three times daily (2403 mg/day) Dosages above 2403 mg/day are not recommended for any patient. If patients experience significant adverse reactions (i.e., gastrointestinal, photosensitivity reaction or rash, severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCAR)), consider temporary dosage reductions or interruptions of pirfenidone tablets to allow for resolution of symptoms. If a SCAR is confirmed, permanently discontinue pirfenidone tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4 )] . For liver enzyme elevations, modify the dosage as follows: If a patient exhibits >3 but ≤5 × the upper limit of normal (ULN) ALT and/or AST without symptoms or hyperbilirubinemia after starting pirfenidone tablets therapy: Discontinue confounding medications, exclude other causes, and monitor the patient closely. The full daily dosage may be maintained, if clinically appropriate, or reduced or interrupted (e.g., until liver chemistry tests are within normal limits) with subsequent re­-titration to the full dosage as tolerated. If a patient exhibits >3 but ≤5 × ULN ALT and/or AST accompanied by symptoms or hyperbilirubinemia: Permanently discontinue pirfenidone tablets. If a patient exhibits >5 × ULN ALT and/or AST: Permanently discontinue pirfenidone tablets. Moderate CYP1A2 Inhibitors (e.g., ciprofloxacin) With use of ciprofloxacin at a dosage of 750 mg twice daily, reduce pirfenidone tablets to 534 mg three times a day (1602 mg/day). ( 2 ) Upon initiation of treatment, titrate to the full dosage of 2,403 mg/day over a 14-day period as follows: Treatment days Dosage Days 1 through 7 267 mg three times daily (801 mg/day) Days 8 through 14 534 mg three times daily (1,602 mg/day) Days 15 onward 801 mg three times daily (2,403 mg/day) Consider temporary dosage reduction, treatment interruption, or discontinuation for management of adverse reactions. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Testing Prior to Pirfenidone Tablets Administration Conduct liver function tests prior to initiating treatment with pirfenidone tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. 2.2 Recommended Dosage The recommended daily maintenance dosage of pirfenidone tablets is 801 mg three times daily for a total of 2,403 mg/day. Upon initiation of treatment, titrate to the full dosage of 2,403 mg/day over a 14-day period as follows: Table 1. Dosage Titration for pirfenidone tablets in Patients with IPF Treatment days Dosage Days 1 through 7 267 mg three times daily (801 mg/day) Days 8 through 14 534 mg three times daily (1,602 mg/day) Days 15 onward 801 mg three times daily (2,403 mg/day) Dosages above 2,403 mg/day are not recommended for any patient. 2.3 Dosage Modifications due to Adverse Reactions Patients who miss 14 or more days of pirfenidone tablets should re-initiate treatment by undergoing the initial 2-week titration regimen up to the full maintenance dosage [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )] . If patients experience significant adverse reactions (i.e., gastrointestinal, photosensitivity reaction or rash, severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCAR)), consider temporary dosage reductions orinterruptions of pirfenidone tablets to allow for resolution of symptoms. If a SCAR is confirmed, permanently discontinue pirfenidone tablets [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 , 5.4)] . For liver enzyme elevations, modify the dosage as follows: If a patient exhibits > 3 but ≤ 5 × the upper limit of normal (ULN) ALT and/or AST without symptoms or hyperbilirubinemia after starting pirfenidone capsules therapy: Discontinue confounding medications, exclude other causes, and monitor the patient closely. If a patient exhibits > 3 but ≤ 5 × ULN ALT and/or AST accompanied by symptoms or hyperbilirubinemia: Permanently discontinue pirfenidone capsules. If a patient exhibits > 5 × ULN ALT and/or AST: Permanently discontinue pirfenidone capsules.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None. None None.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Moderate (e.g., ciprofloxacin) and strong inhibitors of CYP1A2 (e.g., fluvoxamine) increase systemic exposure of pirfenidone and may alter the adverse reaction profile of pirfenidone. Discontinue fluvoxamine prior to administration of pirfenidone or reduce to 267 mg three times a day. Consider dosage reduction with use of ciprofloxacin. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 CYP1A2 Inhibitors Pirfenidone is metabolized primarily (70% to 80%) via CYP1A2 with minor contributions from other CYP isoenzymes including CYP2C9, 2C19, 2D6 and 2E1. Strong CYP1A2 Inhibitors The concomitant administration of pirfenidone and fluvoxamine or other strong CYP1A2 inhibitors (e.g., enoxacin) is not recommended because it significantly increases exposure to pirfenidone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Use of fluvoxamine or other strong CYP1A2 inhibitors should be discontinued prior to administration of pirfenidone and avoided during pirfenidone treatment. In the event that fluvoxamine or other strong CYP1A2 inhibitors are the only drug of choice, dosage reductions are recommended. Monitor for adverse reactions and consider discontinuation of pirfenidone as needed [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . Moderate CYP1A2 Inhibitors Concomitant administration of pirfenidone and ciprofloxacin (a moderate inhibitor of CYP1A2) moderately increases exposure to pirfenidone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . If ciprofloxacin at the dosage of 750 mg twice daily cannot be avoided, dosage reductions are recommended [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ]. Monitor patients closely when ciprofloxacin is used at a dosage of 250 mg or 500 mg once daily. Concomitant CYP1A2 and other CYP Inhibitors Agents or combinations of agents that are moderate or strong inhibitors of both CYP1A2 and one or more other CYP isoenzymes involved in the metabolism of pirfenidone (i.e. CYP2C9, 2C19, 2D6, and 2E1) should be discontinued prior to and avoided during pirfenidone treatment. 7.2 CYP1A2 Inducers The concomitant use of pirfenidone and a CYP1A2 inducer may decrease the exposure of pirfenidone and this may lead to loss of efficacy. Therefore, discontinue use of strong CYP1A2 inducers prior to pirfenidone treatment and avoid the concomitant use of pirfenidone and a strong CYP1A2 inducer [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: Liver Enzyme Elevations and Drug-Induced Liver Injury [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Photosensitivity Reaction or Rash [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Gastrointestinal Disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Moderate (e.g., ciprofloxacin) and strong inhibitors of CYP1A2 (e.g., fluvoxamine) increase systemic exposure of pirfenidone and may alter the adverse reaction profile of pirfenidone. (7.1) 7.1 CYP1A2 Inhibitors Pirfenidone is metabolized primarily (70% to 80%) via CYP1A2 with minor contributions from other CYP isoenzymes including CYP2C9, 2C19, 2D6 and 2E1. Strong CYP1A2 Inhibitors The concomitant administration of pirfenidone and fluvoxamine or other strong CYP1A2 inhibitors (e.g., enoxacin) is not recommended because it significantly increases exposure to pirfenidone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Moderate CYP1A2 Inhibitors Concomitant administration of pirfenidone and ciprofloxacin (a moderate inhibitor of CYP1A2) moderately increases exposure to pirfenidone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Therefore, discontinue use of strong CYP1A2 inducers prior to pirfenidone treatment and avoid the concomitant use of pirfenidone and a strong CYP1A2 inducer [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . ( 7.1 ) 7.1 CYP1A2 Inhibitors Pirfenidone is metabolized primarily (70 to 80%) via CYP1A2 with minor contributions from other CYP isoenzymes including CYP2C9, 2C19, 2D6 and 2E1. Concomitant CYP1A2 and other CYP Inhibitors Agents or combinations of agents that are moderate or strong inhibitors of both CYP1A2 and one or more other CYP isoenzymes involved in the metabolism of pirfenidone (i.e., CYP2C9, 2C19, 2D6, and 2E1) should be discontinued prior to and avoided during pirfenidone treatment. Monitor for adverse reactions and consider discontinuation of pirfenidone as needed [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ]. Moderate CYP1A2 Inhibitors Concomitant administration of pirfenidone and ciprofloxacin (a moderate inhibitor of CYP1A2) moderately increases exposure to pirfenidone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Moderate (e.g., ciprofloxacin) and strong inhibitors of CYP1A2 (e.g., fluvoxamine) increase systemic exposure of pirfenidone tablet and may alter the adverse reaction profile of pirfenidone tablet. Discontinue fluvoxamine prior to administration of pirfenidone tablet or reduce to 267 mg three times a day. Strong CYP1A2 Inhibitors The concomitant administration of pirfenidone tablets and fluvoxamine or other strong CYP1A2 inhibitors (e.g., enoxacin) is not recommended because it significantly increases exposure to pirfenidone tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Use of fluvoxamine or other strong CYP1A2 inhibitors should be discontinued prior to administration of pirfenidone tablets and avoided during pirfenidone tablets treatment. Monitor for adverse reactions and consider discontinuation of pirfenidone tablets as needed [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . Moderate CYP1A2 Inhibitors Concomitant administration of pirfenidone tablets and ciprofloxacin (a moderate inhibitor of CYP1A2) moderately increases exposure to pirfenidone tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Concomitant CYP1A2 and other CYP Inhibitors Agents or combinations of agents that are moderate or strong inhibitors of both CYP1A2 and one or more other CYP isoenzymes involved in the metabolism of pirfenidone tablets (i.e., CYP2C9, 2C19, 2D6, and 2E1) should be discontinued prior to and avoided during pirfenidone tablets treatment. 7.2 CYP1A2 Inducers The concomitant use of pirfenidone tablets and a CYP1A2 inducer may decrease the exposure of pirfenidone tablets and this may lead to loss of efficacy. Therefore, discontinue use of strong CYP1A2 inducers prior to pirfenidone tablets treatment and avoid the concomitant use of pirfenidone tablets and a strong CYP1A2 inducer [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Strong CYP1A2 Inhibitors The concomitant administration of pirfenidone and fluvoxamine or other strong CYP1A2 inhibitors (e.g., enoxacin) is not recommended because it significantly increases exposure to pirfenidone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Monitor for adverse reactions and consider discontinuation of pirfenidone as needed [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )] . Moderate CYP1A2 Inhibitors Concomitant administration of pirfenidone and ciprofloxacin (a moderate inhibitor of CYP1A2) moderately increases exposure to pirfenidone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . If ciprofloxacin at the dosage of 750 mg twice daily cannot be avoided, dosage reductions are recommended [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )] . Therefore, discontinue use of strong CYP1A2 inducers prior to pirfenidone treatment and avoid the concomitant use of pirfenidone and a strong CYP1A2 inducer [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )].

=== POSACONAZOLE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Posaconazole is an azole antifungal indicated as follows: Posaconazole is indicated for the prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections in patients who are at high risk of developing these infections due to being severely immunocompromised, such as hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients with graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) or those with hematologic malignancies with prolonged neutropenia from chemotherapy as follows: ( 1.2 ) o Posaconazole delayed-release tablets: adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older who weigh greater than 40 kg 1.2 Prophylaxis of Invasive Aspergillus and Candida Infections Posaconazole delayed-release tablets are indicated for the prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections in patients who are at high risk of developing these infections due to being severely immunocompromised, such as hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients with graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) or those with hematologic malignancies with prolonged neutropenia from chemotherapy [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] as follows: Posaconazole delayed-release tablets: adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older who weigh greater than 40 kg 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Posaconazole is an azole antifungal agent indicated as follows: Posaconazole is indicated for the prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections in patients who are at high risk of developing these infections due to being severely immunocompromised, such as hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients with graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) or those with hematologic malignancies with prolonged neutropenia from chemotherapy as follows: ( 1.2 ) Posaconazole delayed-release tablets: adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older. 1.2 Prophylaxis of Invasive Aspergillus and Candida Infections Posaconazole delayed-release tablets are indicated for prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections in patients who are at high risk of developing these infections due to being severely immunocompromised, such as hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients with graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) or those with hematologic malignancies with prolonged neutropenia from chemotherapy [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] as follows: Posaconazole Delayed-release tablets: adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older. Additional Pediatric Use information is approved for Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.’s NOXAFIL (posaconazole) delayed-release tablets. However, due to Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Posaconazole is an azole antifungal indicated as follows: • Posaconazole injection is indicated for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older. ( 1.1 ) • Posaconazole is indicated for the prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections in patients who are at high risk of developing these infections due to being severely immunocompromised, such as hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients with graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) or those with hematologic malignancies with prolonged neutropenia from chemotherapy as follows: ( 1.2 ) • Posaconazole injection: adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older 1.1 Treatment of Invasive Aspergillosis Posaconazole injection is indicated for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older. 1.2 Prophylaxis of Invasive Aspergillus and Candida Infections Posaconazole is indicated for the prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections in patients who are at high risk of developing these infections due to being severely immunocompromised, such as hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients with graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) or those with hematologic malignancies with prolonged neutropenia from chemotherapy [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] as follows: • Posaconazole injection: adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Posaconazole is an azole antifungal indicated as follows: • Posaconazole is indicated for the prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections in patients who are at high risk of developing these infections due to being severely immunocompromised, such as hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients with graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) or those with hematologic malignancies with prolonged neutropenia from chemotherapy as follows: ( 1.2 ) o Posaconazole oral suspension: adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older • Posaconazole oral suspension is indicated for the treatment of oropharyngeal candidiasis (OPC), including OPC refractory (rOPC) to itraconazole and/or fluconazole in adult and pediatric patients aged 13 years and older. ( 1.3 ) 1.2 Prophylaxis of Invasive Aspergillus and Candida Infections Posaconazole is indicated for the prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections in patients who are at high risk of developing these infections due to being severely immunocompromised, such as hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients with graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) or those with hematologic malignancies with prolonged neutropenia from chemotherapy [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] as follows: • Posaconazole oral suspension: adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older 1.3 Treatment of Oropharyngeal Candidiasis Including Oropharyngeal Candidiasis Refractory to Itraconazole and/or Fluconazole Posaconazole oral suspension is indicated for the treatment of oropharyngeal candidiasis, including oropharyngeal candidiasis refractory to itraconazole and/or fluconazole in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Posaconazole injection is an azole antifungal indicated as follows: Posaconazole injection is indicated for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older. (1.1) Posaconazole injection is indicated for the prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections in patients who are at high risk of developing these infections due to being severely immunocompromised, such as hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients with graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) or those with hematologic malignancies with prolonged neutropenia from chemotherapy as follows: ( 1.2 ) o Posaconazole injection: adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older 1.1 Treatment of Invasive Aspergillosis Posaconazole injection is indicated for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older. 1.2 Prophylaxis of Invasive Aspergillus and Candida Infections Posaconazole injection is indicated for the prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections in patients who are at high risk of developing these infections due to being severely immunocompromised, such as hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients with graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) or those with hematologic malignancies with prolonged neutropenia from chemotherapy [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] as follows: • Posaconazole injection: adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Posaconazole is an azole antifungal indicated as follows: Posaconazole injection is indicated for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older. ( 1.1 ) Posaconazole is indicated for the prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections in patients who are at high risk of developing these infections due to being severely immunocompromised, such as hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients with graft- versus-host disease (GVHD) or those with hematologic malignancies with prolonged neutropenia from chemotherapy as follows: ( 1.2 ) Posaconazole injection: adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older 1.1 Treatment of Invasive Aspergillosis Posaconazole injection is indicated for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older. 1.2 Prophylaxis of Invasive Aspergillus and Candida Infections Posaconazole is indicated for the prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections in patients who are at high risk of developing these infections due to being severely immunocompromised, such as hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients with graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) or those with hematologic malignancies with prolonged neutropenia from chemotherapy [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] as follows: Posaconazole injection : adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Posaconazole is an azole antifungal indicated as follows: Posaconazole is indicated for the prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections in patients who are at high risk of developing these infections due to being severely immunocompromised, such as hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients with graft-versus- host disease (GVHD) or those with hematologic malignancies with prolonged neutropenia from chemotherapy as follows: ( 1.2 ) Posaconazole delayed-release tablets: adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older. 1.2 Prophylaxis of Invasive Aspergillus and Candida Infections Posaconazole delayed-release tablets are indicated for the prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections in patients who are at high risk of developing these infections due to being severely immunocompromised, such as hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients with graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) or those with hematologic malignancies with prolonged neutropenia from chemotherapy [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] as follows: • Posaconazole delayed-release tablets: adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older. Additional Pediatric Use information is approved for Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.’s Noxafil ® (posaconazole delayed-release tablets). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Posaconazole is an azole antifungal indicated as follows: • Posaconazole is indicated for the prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections in patients who are at high risk of developing these infections due to being severely immunocompromised, such as hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients with graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) or those with hematologic malignancies with prolonged neutropenia from chemotherapy as follows: ( 1.2 ) o Posaconazole delayed-release tablets: adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older 1.2 Prophylaxis of Invasive Aspergillus and Candida Infections Posaconazole delayed-release tablets are indicated for the prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections in patients who are at high risk of developing these infections due to being severely immunocompromised, such as hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients with graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) or those with hematologic malignancies with prolonged neutropenia from chemotherapy [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] as follows: • Posaconazole delayed-release tablets : adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older Additional Pediatric Use information is approved for Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.’s NOXAFIL (posaconazole) delayed-release tablets. ( 1.1 ) Posaconazole injection is indicated for the prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections in patients who are at high risk of developing these infections due to being severely immunocompromised, such as hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients with graft- versus-host disease (GVHD) or those with hematologic malignancies with prolonged neutropenia from chemotherapy as follows: ( 1.2 ) Posaconazole injection : adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older. 1.1 Treatment of Invasive Aspergillosis Posaconazole injection is indicated for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis in adults and pediatric patients 13 years of age and older. 1.2 Prophylaxis of Invasive Aspergillus and Candida Infections Posaconazole injection is indicated for the prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections in patients who are at high risk of developing these infections due to being severely immunocompromised, such as hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients with graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) or those with hematologic malignancies with prolonged neutropenia from chemotherapy [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] as follows: Posaconazole injection: adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Noxafil ® oral suspension is not substitutable with posaconazole delayed-release tablets or Noxafil ® PowderMix for delayed-release oral suspension due to the differences in the dosing of each formulation. Therefore, follow the specific dosage recommendations for each of the formulations. ( 2.1 , 2.2 , 2.3 ) Administer posaconazole delayed-release tablets with or without food. ( 2.1 ) Table 1: Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients Indication Dosage Form, Dose, and Duration of Therapy Prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections Delayed-Release Tablets: Loading dose: 300 mg (three 100 mg delayed-release tablets) twice a day on the first day. Maintenance dose: 300 mg (three 100 mg delayed-release tablets) once a day, starting on the second day. Duration of therapy is based on recovery from neutropenia or immunosuppression. ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) For pediatric patients, see the Full Prescribing Information for dosing recommendations for posaconazole delayed-release tablets ( 1.2 , 2.1 , 2.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Non-substitutable Noxafil ® oral suspension is not substitutable with posaconazole delayed-release tablets or Noxafil ® PowderMix for delayed-release oral suspension due to the differences in the dosing of each formulation.Therefore, follow the specific dosage recommendations for each of the formulations [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.3 )]. Posaconazole delayed-release tablets Swallow tablets whole. Do not divide, crush, or chew. Administer with or without food [ see Dosage and Administration (2.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. For patients who cannot eat a full meal, posaconazole delayed-release tablets should be used instead of Noxafil ® oral suspension for the prophylaxis indication. Posaconazole delayed-release tablets generally provide higher plasma drug exposures than Noxafil ® oral suspension under both fed and fasted conditions, and therefore is the preferred oral formulation for the prophylaxis indication. 2.2 Dosing Regimen in Adult Patients Table 1: Dosing Regimens in Adult Patients Indication D ose and Frequency D uration of Therapy Prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Cand ida infections Load ingdose : 300 mg (three 100 mg delayed-release tablets) twice a day on the first day. Maintenance dose : 300 mg (three 100 mg delayed-release tablets) once a day, starting on the second day. Load ingdose : 1 day Maintenance dose : Duration of therapy is based on recovery from neutropenia or immunosuppression. 2.3 Dosing Regimen in Pediatric Patients (ages 2 to less than 18 years of age) The recommended dosing regimen of posaconazole for pediatric patients 2 to less than 18 years of age is shown in Tables 2 [ see Dosage and Administration (2.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 2: Posaconazole Delayed-Release Tablet Dosing Regimens for Pediatric Patients (ages 2 to less than 18 years of age) Rec ommended Pediatric Dosage and Formulation Indication Weight/Age Delayed-Release Tablet D uration of therapy Prophylaxis of invasive A spergillus and Candida infections Less than or equal to 40 kg (2 to less than 18 years of age) Greater than 40 kg (2 to less than 18 years of age) Not Applicable Load ing dose: 300 mg twice daily on the first day Maintenance dose: 300 mg once daily Duration of therapy is based on recovery from neutropenia or immunosuppression. 2.5 Administration Instructions for Posaconazole Delayed-Release Tablets Swallow tablets whole. Administer posaconazole delayed-release tablets with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.7 Non-substitutability between Noxafil ® Oral Suspension and Other Formulations Noxafil ® oral suspension is not substitutable with posaconazole delayed-release tablets or Noxafil ® PowderMix for delayed-release oral suspension due to the differences in the dosing of each formulation. Therefore, follow the specific dosage recommendations for each of the formulations [see Dosage and Administration (2.2 , 2.3) ]. 2.9 Dosage Adjustments in Patients with Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetics of posaconazole delayed-release tablets are not significantly affected by renal impairment. Therefore, no adjustment is necessary for oral dosing in patients with mild to severe renal impairment. ( 2.1 ) Table 1: Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients and Pediatric Patients aged 13 years and older Indication Dosage Form, Dose, and Duration of Therapy Prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections Posaconazole Delayed-Release Tablets: Loading dose: 300 mg (three 100 mg delayed-release tablets) twice a day on the first day. ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Noxafil ® oral suspension is not substitutable with posaconazole delayed-release tablets or Noxafil ® PowderMix for delayed-release oral suspension due to the differences in the dosing of each formulation. Therefore, follow the specific dosage recommendations for each of the formulations [ see Dosage and Administration (2.2 , 2.3 , 2.8 ) ]. Administer with or without food [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . For patients who cannot eat a full meal, posaconazole delayed-release tablets should be used instead of Noxafil ® oral suspension. Posaconazole delayed-release tablets generally provide higher plasma drug exposures than Noxafil ® oral suspension under both fed and fasted conditions [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ]. 2.2 Dosing Regimen in Adult Patients Table 1: Posaconazole Delayed-Release Tablets Dosing Regimens in Adult Patients Indication Dose and Frequency Duration of Therapy Prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections Loading dose: 300 mg (three 100 mg delayed-release tablets) twice a day on the first day. Maintenance dose: 300 mg (three 100 mg delayed- release tablets) once a day, starting on the second day. Loading dose: 1 day Maintenance dose: Duration of therapy is based on recovery from neutropenia or immunosuppression. 2.3 Dosing Regimen in Pediatric Patients (ages 13 to less than 18 years of age) The recommended dosing regimen of posaconazole for pediatric patients 13 to less than 18 years of age is shown in Table 2 [see Dosage and Administration (2.5 , 2.6 , 2.8 ) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 2: Posaconazole Delayed-Release Tablets Dosing Regimens for Pediatric Patients (ages 13 to less than 18 years of age) Indication Dose and Frequency Duration of Therapy Prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections Loading dose: 300 mg twice a day on the first day Maintenance dose: 300 mg once daily Duration of therapy is based on recovery from neutropenia or immunosuppression. Additional Pediatric Use information is approved for Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.’s NOXAFIL (posaconazole) delayed-release tablets. However, due to Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.’s marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information. Administer posaconazole delayed-release tablets with or without food [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Therefore, follow the specific dosage recommendations for each of the formulations [ see Dosage and Administration (2.2 , 2.3) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Posaconazole injection must be administered through an in-line filter. • Administer posaconazole injection by intravenous infusion over approximately 90 minutes via a central venous line. ( 2.1 ) • Do NOT administer posaconazole injection as an intravenous bolus injection. ( 2.1 ) Table 1: Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients Indication Dosage Form, Dose, and Duration of Therapy Treatment of invasive Aspergillosis Posaconazole Injection: Loading dose: 300 mg posaconazole injection intravenously twice a day on the first day. Maintenance dose: 300 mg posaconazole injection intravenously once a day thereafter. Recommended total duration of therapy is 6 to 12 weeks. ( 2.2 ) Prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections Posaconazole Injection: Loading dose: 300 mg posaconazole injection intravenously twice a day on the first day. ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) • For pediatric patients, see the Full Prescribing Information for dosing recommendations for posaconazole injection based on the age and indication associated with the dosage form. ( 1.1 , 1.2 , 2.1 , 2.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Posaconazole injection • Administer via a central venous line, including a central venous catheter or peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC), by slow intravenous infusion over approximately 90 minutes [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . • If a central venous catheter is not available, posaconazole injection may be administered through a peripheral venous catheter by slow intravenous infusion over 30 minutes only as a single dose in advance of central venous line placement or to bridge the period during which a central venous line is replaced or is in use for other intravenous treatment. • When multiple dosing is required, the infusion should be done via a central venous line. • Do NOT administer posaconazole injection as an intravenous bolus injection. 2.2 Dosing Regimen in Adult Patients Table 1: Dosing Regimens in Adult Patients Indication Dose and Frequency Duration of Therapy Treatment of invasive Aspergillosis Posaconazole Injection: Loading dose: 300 mg posaconazole injection intravenously twice a day on the first day. Maintenance dose: 300 mg posaconazole injection intravenously once a day, starting on the second day. Loading dose: 1 day Maintenance dose: Recommended total duration of therapy is 6 to 12 weeks. Prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections Posaconazole Injection: Loading dose: 300 mg posaconazole injection intravenously twice a day on the first day. 2.3 Dosing Regimen in Pediatric Patients (ages 2 to less than 18 years of age) The recommended dosing regimen of posaconazole injection for pediatric patients 2 to less than 18 years of age is shown in Table 2 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Table 2: Posaconazole Injection Dosing Regimens for Pediatric Patients (ages 2 to less than 18 years of age) Recommended Pediatric Dosage and Formulation Indication Weight/Age Injection Duration of therapy Prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections Less than or equal to 40 kg (2 to less than 18 years of age) Loading dose: 6 mg/kg up to a maximum of 300 mg twice daily on the first day Maintenance dose: 6 mg/kg up to a maximum of 300 mg once daily Duration of therapy is based on recovery from neutropenia or immunosuppression. Greater than 40 kg (2 to less than 18 years of age) Treatment of invasive Aspergillosis 13 to less than 18 years of age regardless of weight. Loading dose: 300 mg posaconazole injection intravenously twice a day on the first day. Switching between the intravenous and delayed-release tablets is acceptable. A loading dose is not required when switching between formulations. 2.4 Preparation, Intravenous Line Compatibility, and Administration of Posaconazole Injection Preparation • Equilibrate the refrigerated vial of posaconazole injection to room temperature. • To prepare the required dose, aseptically transfer one vial (16.7 mL) of posaconazole injection (containing 300 mg of posaconazole in solution) to an intravenous bag (or bottle) of a compatible admixture diluent (as described in Table 5 ), to achieve a final concentration of posaconazole that is between 1 mg/mL and 2 mg/mL. Use of other diluents is not recommended because they may result in particulate formation. • Posaconazole injection is a single-dose sterile solution without preservatives. Discard any unused portion from the vial. • Once admixed, the diluted solution of posaconazole in the intravenous bag (or bottle) should be used immediately. If not used immediately, the solution can be stored up to 24 hours refrigerated 2 to 8°C (36 to 46°F). Discard any unused portion. • Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Once admixed, the solution of posaconazole ranges from colorless to yellow. Variations of color within this range do not affect the quality of the product. Intravenous Line Compatibility A study was conducted to evaluate physical compatibility of posaconazole injection with injectable drug products and commonly used intravenous diluents during simulated Y-site infusion. Compatibility was determined through visual observations, measurement of particulate matter and turbidity. Compatible diluents and drug products are listed in Tables 5 and 6 below. Any diluents or drug products not listed in the tables below should not be co-administered through the same intravenous line (or cannula). • Posaconazole injection can be infused at the same time through the same intravenous line (or cannula) with the following compatible diluents: Table 5: Compatible Diluents 0.45% sodium chloride 0.9% sodium chloride 5% dextrose in water 5% dextrose and 0.45% sodium chloride 5% dextrose and 0.9% sodium chloride 5% dextrose and 20 mEq potassium chloride Posaconazole injection can be infused at the same time through the same intravenous line (or cannula) with the following drug products prepared in 5% dextrose in water or sodium chloride 0.9%. Co-administration of drug products prepared in other diluents may result in particulate formation. Table 6: Compatible Drugs Amikacin sulfate Caspofungin Ciprofloxacin Daptomycin Dobutamine hydrochloride Famotidine Filgrastim Gentamicin sulfate Hydromorphone hydrochloride Levofloxacin Lorazepam Meropenem Micafungin Morphine sulfate Norepinephrine bitartrate Potassium chloride Vancomycin hydrochloride Incompatible Diluents Posaconazole injection must not be diluted with the following diluents: Lactated Ringer’s solution 5% dextrose with Lactated Ringer’s solution 4.2% sodium bicarbonate Administration • Posaconazole injection must be administered through a 0.22-micron polyethersulfone (PES) or polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDF) filter. • Administer via a central venous line, including a central venous catheter or PICC by slow infusion over approximately 90 minutes. Posaconazole injection is not for bolus administration. • If a central venous catheter is not available, posaconazole injection may be administered through a peripheral venous catheter only as a single dose in advance of central venous line placement or to bridge the period during which a central venous line is replaced or is in use for other treatment. When administered through a peripheral venous catheter, the infusion should be administered over approximately 30 minutes. Note: In clinical trials, multiple peripheral infusions given through the same vein resulted in infusion site reactions [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . 2.9 Dosage Adjustments in Patients with Renal Impairment • Posaconazole injection should be avoided in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (eGFR <50 mL/min), unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of posaconazole injection. • In patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) <50 mL/min), receiving the posaconazole injection, accumulation of the intravenous vehicle, Betadex Sulfobutyl Ether Sodium (SBECD), is expected to occur. Serum creatinine levels should be closely monitored in these patients, and, if increases occur, consideration should be given to changing to oral posaconazole therapy. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Posaconazole oral suspension is not substitutable with posaconazole delayed-release tablets or posaconazole powder for delayed-release oral suspension due to the differences in the dosing of each formulation. ( 2.1 , 2.2 , 2.3 ) • Administer posaconazole oral suspension with a full meal. ( 2.1 ) Table 1: Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients Indication Dosage Form, Dose, and Duration of Therapy Prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections Posaconazole Oral Suspension: 200 mg (5 mL) three times a day. ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) Oropharyngeal Candidiasis (OPC) Posaconazole Oral Suspension: Loading Dose : 100 mg (2.5 mL) twice a day on the first day. Maintenance Dose : 100 mg (2.5 mL) once a day for 13 days. ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) OPC Refractory (rOPC) to Itraconazole and/or Fluconazole Posaconazole Oral Suspension: 400 mg (10 mL) twice a day. Duration of therapy is based on the severity of the patient’s underlying disease and clinical response. ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) • For pediatric patients, see the Full Prescribing Information for dosing recommendations for posaconazole oral suspension based on the age and indication associated with the dosage form. ( 1.2 , 1.3 , 2.1 , 2.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Non-substitutable: Posaconazole oral suspension is not substitutable with posaconazole delayed-release tablets or posaconazole powder for delayed-release oral suspension due to the differences in the dosing of each formulation. Therefore, follow the specific dosage recommendations for each of the formulations [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 , 2.3 )] . Posaconazole oral suspension: • Administer with a full meal or with a liquid nutritional supplement or an acidic carbonated beverage (e.g., ginger ale) in patients who cannot eat a full meal [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )]. • Co-administration of drugs that can decrease the plasma concentrations of posaconazole should generally be avoided unless the benefit outweighs the risk. If such drugs are necessary, patients should be monitored closely for breakthrough fungal infections [see Drug Interactions ( 7.6 , 7.7 , 7.8 , 7.9 , 7.13 )]. 2.2 Dosing Regimen in Adult Patients Table 1: Dosing Regimens in Adult Patients Indication Dose and Frequency Duration of Therapy Prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections Posaconazole Oral Suspension: 200 mg (5 mL) three times a day. Oropharyngeal Candidiasis (OPC) Posaconazole Oral Suspension: Loading dose : 100 mg (2.5 mL) twice a day on the first day. Maintenance dose : 100 mg (2.5 mL) once a day thereafter. Loading dose : 1 day Maintenance dose : 13 days OPC Refractory (rOPC) to Itraconazole and/or Fluconazole Posaconazole Oral Suspension: 400 mg (10 mL) twice a day. 2.3 Dosing Regimen in Pediatric Patients (ages 13 to less than 18 years of age) The recommended dosing regimen of posaconazole oral suspension for pediatric patients ages 13 to less than 18 years of age is shown in Table 3 [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 3: Posaconazole Oral Suspension Dosing Regimens for Pediatric Patients (ages 13 to less than 18 years of age) Indication Loading Dose (volume) and frequency Maintenance Dose (volume) and frequency Duration of Therapy Prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections 200 mg (5 mL) three times a day 200 mg (5 mL) three times a day Duration of therapy is based on recovery from neutropenia or immunosuppression. Oropharyngeal Candidiasis (OPC) 100 mg (2.5 mL) twice daily on the first day. 100 mg (2.5 mL) once daily 13 days OPC Refractory (rOPC) to Itraconazole and/or Fluconazole 400 mg (10 mL) twice daily 400 mg (10 mL) twice daily Duration of therapy is based on the severity of the patient’s underlying disease and clinical response. 2.6 Administration Instructions for Posaconazole Oral Suspension • Shake posaconazole oral suspension well before use. Administer with measured dosing spoon (see Figure 1) provided. Figure 1: A measured dosing spoon is provided, marked for doses of 2.5 mL and 5 mL. • Rinse the spoon with water after each administration and before storage. • Administer each dose of posaconazole oral suspension during or immediately (i.e., within 20 minutes) following a full meal [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . • For patients who cannot eat a full meal, posaconazole delayed-release tablets should be used instead of posaconazole oral suspension for the prophylaxis indication. Posaconzole delayed-release tablets provide higher plasma drug exposures than posaconazole oral suspension under fasted conditions [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )] . • In patients who cannot eat a full meal and for whom posaconazole delayed-release tablets or posaconazole injection are not options, administer each dose of posaconazole oral suspension with a liquid nutritional supplement or an acidic carbonated beverage (e.g., ginger ale). • For patients who cannot eat a full meal or tolerate an oral nutritional supplement or an acidic carbonated beverage and who do not have the option of taking posaconazole delayed-release tablets or posaconazole injection, an alternative antifungal therapy should be considered or patients should be monitored closely for breakthrough fungal infections. Figure 1 - Measured dosing spoon 2.7 Non-substitutability between Posaconazole Oral Suspension and Other Formulations Posaconazole oral suspension is not substitutable with posaconazole delayed-release tablets or posaconazole powder for delayed-release oral suspension due to the differences in the dosing of each formulation. 2.9 Dosage Adjustments in Patients with Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetics of posaconazole oral suspension are not significantly affected by renal impairment. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Posaconazole injection must be administered through an in-line filter. Administer posaconazole injection by intravenous infusion over approximately 90 minutes via a central venous line. ( 2.1 ) Do NOT administer posaconazole injection as an intravenous bolus injection. ( 2.1 ) Table 1: Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients Indication Dosage Form, Dose, and Duration of Therapy Treatment of invasive Aspergillosis Posaconazole Injection: Loading dose : 300 mg posaconazole injection intravenously twice a day on the first day. Maintenance dose : 300 mg posaconazole injection intravenously once a day thereafter. (2.2) Prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections Posaconazole Injection: Loading dose : 300 mg posaconazole injection intravenously twice a day on the first day. (2.2, 2.3) For pediatric patients, see the Full Prescribing Information for dosing recommendations for posaconazole injection based on the age and indication associated with the dosage form. (1.1, 1.2, 2.1, 2.3) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Posaconazole injection ● Administer via a central venous line, including a central venous catheter or peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC), by slow intravenous infusion over approximately 90 minutes [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ]. ● If a central venous catheter is not available, posaconazole injection may be administered through a peripheral venous catheter by slow intravenous infusion over 30 minutes only as a single-dose in advance of central venous line placement or to bridge the period during which a central venous line is replaced or is in use for other intravenous treatment. ● When multiple dosing is required, the infusion should be done via a central venous line. ● Do NOT administer posaconazole injection as an intravenous bolus injection. Prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections Posaconazole Injection: Loading dose : 300 mg posaconazole injection intravenously twice a day on the first day. Table 2: Posaconazole Injection Dosing Regimens for Pediatric Patients (ages 2 to less than 18 years of age) Recommended Pediatric Dosage and Formulation Indication Weight /Age Injection Duration of therapy Prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections Less than or equal to 40 kg (2 to less than 18 years of age) Loading dose: 6 mg/kg up to a maximum of 300 mg twice daily on the first day Maintenance dose: 6 mg/kg up to a maximum of 300 mg once daily Duration of therapy is based on recovery from neutropenia or immunosuppression. 2.4 Preparation, Intravenous Line Compatibility, and Administration of Posaconazole Injection Preparation: Equilibrate the refrigerated vial of posaconazole injection to room temperature. To prepare the required dose, aseptically transfer one vial (16.7 mL) of posaconazole injection (containing 300 mg of posaconazole in solution) to an intravenous bag (or bottle) of a compatible admixture diluent (as described in Table 5 ), to achieve a final concentration of posaconazole that is between 1 mg/mL and 2 mg/mL. Posaconazole injection is a single-dose sterile solution without preservatives. Once admixed, the diluted solution of posaconazole injection in the intravenous bag (or bottle) should be used immediately. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Once admixed, the solution of posaconazole injection ranges from colorless to yellow. Intravenous Line Compatibility: A study was conducted to evaluate physical compatibility of posaconazole injection with injectable drug products and commonly used intravenous diluents during simulated Y-site infusion. Posaconazole injection can be infused at the same time through the same intravenous line (or cannula) with the following compatible diluents: Table 5: Compatible Diluents 0.45% sodium chloride 0.9% sodium chloride 5% dextrose in water 5% dextrose and 0.45% sodium chloride 5% dextrose and 0.9% sodium chloride 5% dextrose and 20 mEq potassium chloride Posaconazole injection can be infused at the same time through the same intravenous line (or cannula) with the following drug products prepared in 5% dextrose in water or sodium chloride 0.9%. Table 6: Compatible Drugs Amikacin sulfate Caspofungin Ciprofloxacin Daptomycin Dobutamine hydrochloride Famotidine Filgrastim Gentamicin sulfate Hydromorphone hydrochloride Levofloxacin Lorazepam Meropenem Micafungin Morphine sulfate Norepinephrine bitartrate Potassium chloride Vancomycin hydrochloride Incompatible Diluents: Posaconazole injection must not be diluted with the following diluents: Lactated Ringer’s solution 5% dextrose with Lactated Ringer’s solution 4.2% sodium bicarbonate Administration: Posaconazole injection must be administered through a 0.22-micron polyethersulfone (PES) or polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDF) filter. Administer via a central venous line, including a central venous catheter or PICC by slow infusion over approximately 90 minutes. If a central venous catheter is not available, posaconazole injection may be administered through a peripheral venous catheter only as a single-dose in advance of central venous line placement or to bridge the period during which a central venous line is replaced or is in use for other treatment. When multiple dosing is required, the infusion should be done via a central venous line. 2.9 Dosage Adjustments in Patients with Renal Impairment Posaconazole injection should be avoided in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (eGFR <50 mL/min), unless an assessment of the benefit/risk to the patient justifies the use of posaconazole injection. In patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) <50 mL/min), receiving the posaconazole injection, accumulation of the intravenous vehicle, Betadex Sulfobutyl Ether Sodium (SBECD), is expected to occur. Serum creatinine levels should be closely monitored in these patients, and, if increases occur, consideration should be given to changing to oral Noxafil therapy. ( 2.2 ) Prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections Posaconazole Injection: Loading dose : 300 mg posaconazole injection intravenously twice a day on the first day. ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) For pediatric patients, see the Full Prescribing Information for dosing recommendations for posaconazole injection based on the age and indication associated with the dosage form. ( 1.1 , 1.2 , 2.1 , 2.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Posaconazole Injection Administer via a central venous line, including a central venous catheter or peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC), by slow intravenous infusion over approximately 90 minutes [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . If a central venous catheter is not available, posaconazole injection may be administered through a peripheral venous catheter by slow intravenous infusion over 30 minutes only as a single dose in advance of central venous line placement or to bridge the period during which a central venous line is replaced or is in use for other intravenous treatment. Do NOT administer posaconazole injection as an intravenous bolus injection. Loading dose : 1 day Maintenance dose : Duration of therapy is based on recovery from neutropenia or immunosuppression. 2.3 Dosing Regimen in Pediatric Patients (ages 2 to less than 18 years of age) The recommended dosing regimen of posaconazole for pediatric patients 2 to less than 18 years of age is shown in Table 2 [see Dosage and Administration (2.5, 2.6, 2.8) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 2: Posaconazole Injection Dosing Regimens for Pediatric Patients (ages 2 to less than 18 years of age) Recommended Pediatric Dosage and Formulation Indication Weight/Age Injection Duration of therapy Prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections Less than or equal to 40 kg (2 to less than 18 years of age) Loading dose : 6 mg/kg up to a maximum of 300 mg twice daily on the first day Maintenance dose: 6 mg/kg up to a maximum of 300 mg once daily Duration of therapy is based on recovery from neutropenia or immunosuppression. Loading dose: 1 day Maintenance dose : Recommended total duration of therapy is 6 to 12 weeks. Once admixed, the diluted solution of posaconazole in the intravenous bag (or bottle) should be used immediately. Table 6: Compatible Drugs Amikacin sulfate Caspofungin Ciprofloxacin Daptomycin Dobutamine hydrochloride Famotidine Filgrastim Gentamicin sulfate Hydromorphone hydrochloride Levofloxacin Lorazepam Meropenem Micafungin Morphine sulfate Norepinephrine bitartrate Potassium chloride Vancomycin hydrochloride Incompatible Diluents: Posaconazole injection must not be diluted with the following diluents: Lactated Ringer's solution 5% dextrose with Lactated Ringer's solution 4.2% sodium bicarbonate Administration: Posaconazole injection must be administered through a 0.22-micron polyethersulfone (PES) or polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDF) filter. If a central venous catheter is not available, posaconazole injection may be administered through a peripheral venous catheter only as a single dose in advance of central venous line placement or to bridge the period during which a central venous line is replaced or is in use for other treatment. In patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) <50 mL/min), receiving the posaconazole injection, accumulation of the intravenous vehicle, Sulfobutyl-Ether-β-Cyclodextrin Sodium Salt (SBECD), is expected to occur. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Noxafil ® oral suspension is not substitutable with posaconazole delayed-rel ease tablets or Noxafil ® PowderMix for delayed-release oral suspension due to the differences in the dosing of each formulation. Administer posaconazole delayed-release tablets with or without food. ( 2.1 ) Table 1: Recommended Dosage In Adult Patients And Pediatric Patients Aged 13 Years And Older Indication Dosage Form, Dose, and Duration of Therapy Prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections Posaconazole Delayed-Release Tablets: Loading dose : 300 mg (three 100 mg delayed-release tablets) twice a day on the first day. ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Non-substitutable Noxafil ® oral suspension is not substitutable with posaconazole delayed-release tablets or Noxafil ® PowderMix for delayed-release oral suspension due to the differences in the dosing of each formulation. Administerwith or withoutfood [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Posaconazole delayed-release tablets generally provide higher plasma drug exposures than Noxafil ® oral suspension under both fed and fasted conditions 2.2 Dosing Regimen in Adult Patients Table 1: Dosing Regimens in Adult Patients Indication Dose and Frequency Duration of Therapy Prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections Posaconazole Delayed-Release Tablets: Loading dose : 300 mg (three 100 mg delayed-release tablets) twice a day on the first day. Loading dose :1 day Maintenance dose : Duration of therapy is based on recovery from neutropenia or immunosuppression. 2.3 Dosing Regimen in Pediatric Patients (ages 13 to less than 18 years of age) The recommended dosing regimen of posaconazole delayed-release tablets for pediatric patients 13 to less than 18 years of age is shown in Table 2 [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Table 2: Posaconazole Delayed-Release Tablet Dosing Regimens for Pediatric Patients (ages 13 to less than 18 years of age) Recommended Pediatric Dosage and Formulation Indication Delayed-ReleaseTablet Duration of Therapy Prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections Loading dose : 300 mg twice daily on the first day Maintenance dose : 300 mg once daily Duration of therapy is based on recovery from neutropenia or immunosuppression. Additional Pediatric Use information is approved for Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.’s Noxafil ® (posaconazole delayed-release tablets). 2.5Administration Instructions for Posaconazole Delayed-Release Tablets • Swallow tablets whole. •Administer posaconazole delayed-release tablets with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Non-substitutable Noxafil ® oral suspension is not substitutable with posaconazole delayed-release tablets or Noxafil ® PowderMix for delayed-release oral suspension due to the differences in the dosing of each formulation. Posaconazole delayed-release tablets generally provide higher plasma drug exposures than Noxafil ® oral suspension under both fed and fasted conditions 2.2 Dosing Regimen in Adult Patients Table 1: Dosing Regimens in Adult Patients Indication Dose and Frequency Duration of Therapy Prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections Posaconazole Delayed-Release Tablets: Loading dose : 300 mg (three 100 mg delayed-release tablets) twice a day on the first day. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Noxafil ® oral suspension is not substitutable with posaconazole delayed-release tablets or Noxafil PowderMix for delayed-release oral suspension due to differences in the dosing of each formulation. • Administer posaconazole delayed-release tablets with or without food. ( 2.1 ) Table 1: Recommended Dosage in Adult Patients and Pediatric Patients aged 13 years and older Indication Dose, and Duration of Therapy Prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections Posaconazole Delayed-Release Tablets: Loading dose : 300 mg (three 100 mg delayed-release tablets) twice a day on the first day. ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Non-substitutable Noxafil oral suspension is not substitutable with posaconazole delayed-release tablets or Noxafil PowderMix for delayed-release oral suspension due to the differences in the dosing of each formulation. Posaconazole delayed-release tablets • Swallow tablets whole. • Administer with or without food [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . • For patients who cannot eat a full meal, posaconazole delayed-release tablets should be used instead of Noxafil ® oral suspension for the prophylaxis indication. Posaconazole delayed-release tablets generally provide higher plasma drug exposures than Noxafil ® oral suspension under both fed and fasted conditions. 2.3 Dosing Regimen in Pediatric Patients (ages 13 to less than 18 years of age) The recommended dosing regimen of posaconazole for pediatric patients 13 to less than 18 years of age is shown in Table 2 [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Table 2: Posaconazole Delayed-Release Tablet Dosing Regimens for Pediatric Patients (ages 13 to less than 18 years of age) Recommended Pediatric Dosage and Formulation Indication Delayed-Release Tablet Duration of therapy Prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections Loading dose : 300 mg twice daily on the first day Maintenance dose : 300 mg once daily Duration of therapy is based on recovery from neutropenia or immunosuppression. 2.5 Administration Instructions for Posaconazole Delayed-Release Tablets • Swallow tablets whole. • Administer posaconazole delayed-release tablets with or without food [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2.7 Non-substitutability between Noxafil® Oral Suspension and Other Formulations Noxafil oral suspension is not substitutable with posaconazole delayed-release tablets or Noxafil PowderMix for delayed-release oral suspension due to the differences in the dosing of each formulation. ( 2.2 ) Switching between the intravenous and Noxafil ® delayed-release tablets is acceptable. ( 2.2 , 2.3 ) For pediatric patients, see the Full Prescribing Information for dosing recommendations for posaconazole injection , based on the age and indication associated with the dosage form. ( 1.1 , 1.2 , 2.1 , 2.3 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Posaconazole injection Administer via a central venous line, including a central venous catheter or peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC), by slow intravenous infusion over approximately 90 minutes [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )] . Do NOT administer posaconazole injection as an intravenous bolus injection 2.2 Dosing Regimen in Adult Patients Table 1: Dosing Regimens in Adult Patients Indication Dose and Frequency Duration of Therapy Treatment of invasive Aspergillosis Posaconazole Injection: Loading dose : 300 mg posaconazole injection intravenously twice a day on the first day. Maintenance dose : 300 mg posaconazole injection intravenously once a day, starting on the second day. Switching between the intravenous and Noxafil ® delayed-release tablets is acceptable. 2.3 Dosing Regimen in Pediatric Patients (ages 2 to less than 18 years of age) The recommended dosing regimen of posaconazole injection for pediatric patients 2 to less than 18 years of age is shown in Table 2 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Table 2: Posaconazole Injection Dosing Regimens for Pediatric Patients (ages 2 to less than 18 years of age) Recommended Pediatric Dosage and Formulation Indication Weight/Age Injection Duration of therapy Prophylaxis of invasive Aspergillus and Candida infections Less than or equal to 40 kg (2 to less than 18 years of age) Greater than 40 kg (2 to less than 18 years of age) Loading dose: 6 mg/kg up to a maximum of 300 mg twice daily on the first day Maintenance dose : 6 mg/kg up to a maximum of 300 mg once daily Duration of therapy is based on recovery from neutropenia or immunosuppression. Treatment of invasive Aspergillosis 13 to less than 18 years of age regardless of weight. Coadministration of drug products prepared in other diluents may result in particulate formation. Note: In clinical trials, multiple peripheral infusions given through the same vein resulted in infusion site reactions [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] .
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity to posaconazole or other azole antifungal agents. ( 4.1 ) Coadministration of posaconazole with the following drugs is contraindicated; posaconazole increases concentrations and toxicities of: Sirolimus ( 4.2 , 5.1 , 7.1 ) CYP3A4 substrates (pimozide, quinidine): can result in QTc interval prolongation and cases of torsades de pointes (TdP) ( 4.3 , 5.2 , 7.2 ) HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors Primarily Metabolized through CYP3A4 ( 4.4 , 7.3 ) Ergot alkaloids ( 4.5 , 7.4 ) Venetoclax: In patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) at initiation and during the ramp-up phase ( 4.6 , 5.11 , 7.16 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Posaconazole is contraindicated in persons with known hypersensitivity to posaconazole or other azole antifungal agents. 4.2 Use with Sirolimus Posaconazole is contraindicated with sirolimus. Concomitant administration of posaconazole with sirolimus increases the sirolimus blood concentrations by approximately 9-fold and can result in sirolimus toxicity [ see Drug Interactions (7.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 4.3 QT Prolongation with Concomitant Use with CYP3A4 Substrates Posaconazole is contraindicated with CYP3A4 substrates that prolong the QT interval. Concomitant administration of posaconazole with the CYP3A4 substrates, pimozide and quinidine may result in increased plasma concentrations of these drugs, leading to QTc prolongation and cases of torsades de pointes [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Drug Interactions (7.2) ]. 4.4 HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors Primarily Metabolized Through CYP3A4 Coadministration with the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are primarily metabolized through CYP3A4 (e.g., atorvastatin, lovastatin, and simvastatin) is contraindicated since increased plasma concentration of these drugs can lead to rhabdomyolysis [ see Drug Interactions (7.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 4.5 Use with Ergot Alkaloids Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentrations of ergot alkaloids (ergotamine and dihydroergotamine) which may lead to ergotism [ see Drug Interactions (7.4) ]. 4.6 Use with Venetoclax Coadministration of posaconazole with venetoclax at initiation and during the ramp-up phase is contraindicated in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) due to the potential for increased risk of tumor lysis syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) and Drug Interactions (7.16) ]. ( 4.1 ) Coadministration of posaconazole delayed-release tablets with the following drugs is contraindicated; posaconazole increases concentrations and toxicities of: Sirolimus ( 4.2 , 5.1 , 7.1 ) CYP3A4 substrates (pimozide, quinidine): can result in QTc interval prolongation and cases of torsades de pointes (TdP) ( 4.3 , 5.2 , 7.2 ) HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors Primarily Metabolized Through CYP3A4 ( 4.4 , 7.3 ) Ergot alkaloids: can result in ergotism ( 4.5 , 7.4 ) Venetoclax: in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) at initiation and during the ramp up phase ( 4.6 , 5.10 , 7.16 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Posaconazole is contraindicated in persons with known hypersensitivity to posaconazole or other azole antifungal agents. Concomitant administration of posaconazole with sirolimus increases the sirolimus blood concentrations by approximately 9-fold and can result in sirolimus toxicity [see Drug Interactions (7.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Concomitant administration of posaconazole with the CYP3A4 substrates, pimozide and quinidine may result in increased plasma concentrations of these drugs, leading to QTc prolongation and cases of torsades de pointes [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Drug Interactions (7.2) ] . 4.4 HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors Primarily Metabolized Through CYP3A4 Coadministration with the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are primarily metabolized through CYP3A4 (e.g., atorvastatin, lovastatin, and simvastatin) is contraindicated since increased plasma concentration of these drugs can lead to rhabdomyolysis [see Drug Interactions (7.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 4.5 Use with Ergot Alkaloids Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentrations of ergot alkaloids (ergotamine and dihydroergotamine) which may lead to ergotism [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ] . 4.6 Use with Venetoclax Coadministration of posaconazole with venetoclax at initiation and during the ramp-up phase is contraindicated in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) due to the potential for increased risk of tumor lysis syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) and Drug Interactions (7.16) ] 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Known hypersensitivity to posaconazole or other azole antifungal agents. ( 4.1 ) • Coadministration of posaconazole with the following drugs is contraindicated; posaconazole increases concentrations and toxicities of: • Sirolimus: ( 4.2 , 5.1 , 7.1 ) • CYP3A4 substrates (pimozide, quinidine): can result in QTc interval prolongation and cases of torsades de pointes (TdP) ( 4.3 , 5.2 , 7.2 ) • HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors Primarily Metabolized through CYP3A4 ( 4.4 , 7.3 ) • Ergot alkaloids ( 4.5 , 7.4 ) • Venetoclax: In patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) at initiation and during the ramp-up phase ( 4.6 , 5.11 , 7.16 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Posaconazole injection is contraindicated in persons with known hypersensitivity to posaconazole or other azole antifungal agents. 4.6 Use with Venetoclax Coadministration of posaconazole with venetoclax at initiation and during the ramp-up phase is contraindicated in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) due to the potential for increased risk of tumor lysis syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) and Drug Interactions (7.16) ] . ( 4.1 ) • Coadministration of posaconazole with the following drugs is contraindicated; posaconazole increases concentrations and toxicities of: • Sirolimus ( 4.2 , 5.1 , 7.1 ) • CYP3A4 Substrates (pimozide, quinidine): can result in QTc interval prolongation and cases of torsades de pointes (TdP) ( 4.3 , 5.2 , 7.2 ) • HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors Primarily Metabolized through CYP3A4 ( 4.4 , 7.3 ) • Ergot alkaloids ( 4.5 , 7.4 ) • Venetoclax: In patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) at initiation and during the ramp-up phase ( 4.6 , 5.11 , 7.16 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Posaconazole is contraindicated in persons with known hypersensitivity to posaconazole or other azole antifungal agents. Concomitant administration of posaconazole with sirolimus increases the sirolimus blood concentrations by approximately 9-fold and can result in sirolimus toxicity [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Concomitant administration of posaconazole with the CYP3A4 substrates, pimozide and quinidine may result in increased plasma concentrations of these drugs, leading to QTc prolongation and cases of torsades de pointes [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )] . 4.4 HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors Primarily Metabolized Through CYP3A4 Coadministration with the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are primarily metabolized through CYP3A4 (e.g., atorvastatin, lovastatin, and simvastatin) is contraindicated since increased plasma concentration of these drugs can lead to rhabdomyolysis [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 4.5 Use with Ergot Alkaloids Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentrations of ergot alkaloids (ergotamine and dihydroergotamine) which may lead to ergotism [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 )] . 4.6 Use with Venetoclax Coadministration of posaconazole with venetoclax at initiation and during the ramp-up phase is contraindicated in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) due to the potential for increased risk of tumor lysis syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.16 )] . ( 4.1 ) Coadministration of posaconazole with the following drugs is contraindicated; posaconazole increases concentrations and toxicities of: Sirolimus ( 4.2 , 5.1 , 7.1 ) CYP3A4 substrates (pimozide, quinidine): can result in QTc interval prolongation and cases of torsades de pointes (TdP) ( 4.3 , 5.2 , 7.2 ) HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors Primarily Metabolized through CYP3A4 ( 4.4 , 7.3 ) Ergot alkaloids ( 4.5 , 7.4 ) Venetoclax: In patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) at initiation and during the ramp-up phase ( 4.6 , 5.11, 7.16 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Posaconazole is contraindicated in persons with known hypersensitivity to posaconazole or other azole antifungal agents. 4.6 Use with Venetoclax Coadministration of posaconazole with venetoclax at initiation and during the ramp-up phase is contraindicated in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) due to the potential for increased risk of tumor lysis syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) and Drug Interactions (7.16) ]. ( 4.1 ) Coadministration of posaconazole with the following drugs is contraindicated; posaconazole increases concentrations and toxicities of: Sirolimus ( 4.2 , 5.1 , 7.1 ) CYP3A4 substrates (pimozide, quinidine): can result in QTc interval prolongation and cases of torsades de pointes (TdP) ( 4.3 , 5.2 , 7.2 ) HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors Primarily Metabolized through CYP3A4 ( 4.4 , 7.3 ) Ergot alkaloids ( 4.5 , 7.4 ) Venetoclax: in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) at initiation and during the ramp up phase ( 4.6 , 5.10 , 7.16 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Posaconazole is contraindicated in persons with known hypersensitivity to posaconazole or other azole antifungal agents. Concomitant administration of posaconazole with the CYP3A4 substrates, pimozide and quinidine may result in increased plasma concentrations of these drugs, leading to QTc prolongation and cases of torsades de pointes [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.2 )]. 4.5 Use with Ergot Alkaloids Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentrations of ergot alkaloids (ergotamine and dihydroergotamine) which may lead to ergotism [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 )]. 4.6 Use with Venetoclax Coadministration of posaconazole with venetoclax at initiation and during the ramp-up phase is contraindicated in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) due to the potential for increased risk of tumor lysis syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.16 )]. 4.1 Hypersensitivity Posaconazole is contraindicated in persons with known hypersensitivity to posaconazole or other azole antifungal agents. ( 4.1 ) • Coadministration of posaconazole with the following drugs is contraindicated; Posaconazole increases concentrations and toxicities of: • Sirolimus ( 4.2 , 5.1 , 7.1 ) • CYP3A4 substrates (pimozide, quinidine): can result in QTc interval prolongation and cases of torsades de pointes (TdP) ( 4.3 , 5.2 , 7.2 ) • HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors Primarily Metabolized through CYP3A4 ( 4.4 , 7.3 ) • Ergot alkaloids ( 4.5 , 7.4 ) • Venetoclax: in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) at initiation and during the ramp up phase ( 4.6 , 5.10 , 7.16 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Posaconazole is contraindicated in persons with known hypersensitivity to posaconazole or other azole antifungal agents. Concomitant administration of posaconazole with sirolimus increases the sirolimus blood concentrations by approximately 9-fold and can result in sirolimus toxicity [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 4.4 HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors Primarily Metabolized Through CYP3A4 Coadministration with the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are primarily metabolized through CYP3A4 (e.g., atorvastatin, lovastatin, and simvastatin) is contraindicated since increased plasma concentration of these drugs can lead to rhabdomyolysis [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. ( 4.1 ) Coadministration of posaconazole with the following drugs is contraindicated; posaconazole increases concentrations and toxicities of: Sirolimus ( 4.2 , 5.1 , 7.1 ) CYP3A4 substrates (pimozide, quinidine): can result in QTc interval prolongation and cases of torsades de pointes (TdP) ( 4.3, 5.2 , 7.2 ) HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors Primarily Metabolized through CYP3A4 ( 4.4, 7.3 ) Ergot alkaloids ( 4.5 , 7.4 ) Venetoclax: In patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) at initiation and during the ramp-up phase ( 4.6, 5.11 , 7.16 ) 4.1 Hypersensitivity Posaconazole is contraindicated in persons with known hypersensitivity to posaconazole or other azole antifungal agents. Concomitant administration of posaconazole with sirolimus increases the sirolimus blood concentrations by approximately 9-fold and can result in sirolimus toxicity [ see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Concomitant administration of posaconazole with the CYP3A4 substrates, pimozide and quinidine may result in increased plasma concentrations of these drugs, leading to QTc prolongation and cases of torsades de pointes [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Drug Interactions ( 7.2 ) ]. 4.4 HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors Primarily Metabolized Through CYP3A4 Coadministration with the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are primarily metabolized through CYP3A4 (e.g., atorvastatin, lovastatin, and simvastatin) is contraindicated since increased plasma concentration of these drugs can lead to rhabdomyolysis [ see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 4.5 Use with Ergot Alkaloids Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentrations of ergot alkaloids (ergotamine and dihydroergotamine) which may lead to ergotism [ see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 ) ]. 4.6 Use with Venetoclax Coadministration of posaconazole with venetoclax at initiation and during the ramp-up phase is contraindicated in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) due to the potential for increased risk of tumor lysis syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7.16 ) ].
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Posaconazole is primarily metabolized via UDP glucuronosyltransferase and is a substrate of p-­glycoprotein (P-gp) efflux. Therefore, inhibitors or inducers of these clearance pathways may affect posaconazole plasma concentrations. Coadministration of drugs that can decrease the plasma concentrations of posaconazole should generally be avoided unless the benefit outweighs the risk. If such drugs are necessary, patients should be monitored closely for breakthrough fungal infections. Posaconazole is also a strong inhibitor of CYP3A4. Therefore, plasma concentrations of drugs predominantly metabolized by CYP3A4 may be increased by posaconazole [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. The following information was derived from data with Noxafil ® oral suspension or early tablet formulation unless otherwise noted. All drug interactions with Noxafil ® oral suspension, except for those that affect the absorption of posaconazole (via gastric pH and motility), are considered relevant to posaconazole delayed-release tablet as well [see Drug Interactions (7.9) and (7.13) ]. Interaction Drug Interaction Rifabutin, phenytoin, efavirenz, cimetidine, esomeprazole* Avoid coadministration unless the benefit outweighs the risks ( 7.6 , 7.7 , 7.8 , 7.9 ) Other drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 Consider dosage adjustment and monitor for adverse effects and toxicity ( 7.1 , 7.10 , 7.11 ) Digoxin Monitor digoxin plasma concentrations ( 7.12 ) Fosamprenavir, metoclopramide* Monitor for breakthrough fungal infections ( 7.6 , 7.13 ) *The drug interactions with esomeprazole and metoclopramide do not apply to posaconazole tablets. 7.1 Immunosuppressants Metabolized by CYP3A4 Sirolimus: Concomitant administration of posaconazole with sirolimus increases the sirolimus blood concentrations by approximately 9-fold and can result in sirolimus toxicity. Therefore, posaconazole is contraindicated with sirolimus [ see Contraindications (4.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Tacrolimus: Posaconazole has been shown to significantly increase the C max and AUC of tacrolimus. At initiation of posaconazole treatment, reduce the tacrolimus dose to approximately one-third of the original dose. Frequent monitoring of tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations should be performed during and at discontinuation of posaconazole treatment and the tacrolimus dose adjusted accordingly [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Cyclosporine: Posaconazole has been shown to increase cyclosporine whole blood concentrations in heart transplant patients upon initiation of posaconazole treatment. It is recommended to reduce cyclosporine dose to approximately three-fourths of the original dose upon initiation of posaconazole treatment. Frequent monitoring of cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations should be performed during and at discontinuation of posaconazole treatment and the cyclosporine dose adjusted accordingly [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 CYP3A4 Substrates Concomitant administration of posaconazole with CYP3A4 substrates such as pimozide and quinidine may result in increased plasma concentrations of these drugs, leading to QTc prolongation and cases of torsades de pointes. Therefore, posaconazole is contraindicated with these drugs [ see Contraindications (4.3) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 7.3 HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors (Statins) Primarily Metabolized Through CYP3A4 Concomitant administration of posaconazole with simvastatin increases the simvastatin plasma concentrations by approximately 10-fold. Therefore, posaconazole is contraindicated with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors primarily metabolized through CYP3A4 [ see Contraindications (4.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.4 Ergot Alkaloids Most of the ergot alkaloids are substrates of CYP3A4. Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentrations of ergot alkaloids (ergotamine and dihydroergotamine) which may lead to ergotism. Therefore, posaconazole is contraindicated with ergot alkaloids [ see Contraindications (4.5) ]. 7.5 Benzodiazepines Metabolized by CYP3A4 Concomitant administration of posaconazole with midazolam increases the midazolam plasma concentrations by approximately 5-fold. Increased plasma midazolam concentrations could potentiate and prolong hypnotic and sedative effects. Concomitant use of posaconazole and other benzodiazepines metabolized by CYP3A4 (e.g., alprazolam, triazolam) could result in increased plasma concentrations of these benzodiazepines. Patients must be monitored closely for adverse effects associated with high plasma concentrations of benzodiazepines metabolized by CYP3A4 and benzodiazepine receptor antagonists must be available to reverse these effects [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.6 Anti-HIV Drugs Efavirenz: Efavirenz induces UDP-glucuronidase and significantly decreases posaconazole plasma concentrations [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. It is recommended to avoid concomitant use of efavirenz with posaconazole unless the benefit outweighs the risks. Ritonavir and Atazanavir: Ritonavir and atazanavir are metabolized by CYP3A4 and posaconazole increases plasma concentrations of these drugs [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Frequent monitoring of adverse effects and toxicity of ritonavir and atazanavir should be performed during coadministration with posaconazole. Fosamprenavir: Combining fosamprenavir with posaconazole may lead to decreased posaconazole plasma concentrations. If concomitant administration is required, close monitoring for breakthrough fungal infections is recommended [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.7 Rifabutin Rifabutin induces UDP-glucuronidase and decreases posaconazole plasma concentrations. Rifabutin is also metabolized by CYP3A4. Therefore, coadministration of rifabutin with posaconazole increases rifabutin plasma concentrations [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Concomitant use of posaconazole and rifabutin should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the risk. However, if concomitant administration is required, close monitoring for breakthrough fungal infections as well as frequent monitoring of full blood counts and adverse reactions due to increased rifabutin plasma concentrations (e.g., uveitis, leukopenia) are recommended. 7.8 Phenytoin Phenytoin induces UDP-glucuronidase and decreases posaconazole plasma concentrations. Phenytoin is also metabolized by CYP3A4. Therefore, coadministration of phenytoin with posaconazole increases phenytoin plasma concentrations [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Concomitant use of posaconazole and phenytoin should be avoided unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the risk. However, if concomitant administration is required, close monitoring for breakthrough fungal infections is recommended and frequent monitoring of phenytoin concentrations should be performed while coadministered with posaconazole and dose reduction of phenytoin should be considered. 7.9 Gastric Acid Suppressors/Neutralizers No clinically relevant effects on the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole were observed when posaconazole delayed-release tablets are concomitantly used with antacids, H 2 -receptor antagonists and proton pump inhibitors [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. No dosage adjustment of posaconazole delayed-release tablets are required when concomitantly used with antacids, H 2 -receptor antagonists and proton pump inhibitors. 7.10 Vinca Alkaloids Most of the vinca alkaloids (e.g., vincristine and vinblastine) are substrates of CYP3A4. Concomitant administration of azole antifungals, including posaconazole, with vincristine has been associated with serious adverse reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentrations of vinca alkaloids which may lead to neurotoxicity and other serious adverse reactions. Therefore, reserve azole antifungals, including posaconazole, for patients receiving a vinca alkaloid, including vincristine, who have no alternative antifungal treatment options. 7.11 Calcium Channel Blockers Metabolized by CYP3A4 Posaconazole may increase the plasma concentrations of calcium channel blockers metabolized by CYP3A4 (e.g., verapamil, diltiazem, nifedipine, nicardipine, felodipine). Frequent monitoring for adverse reactions and toxicity related to calcium channel blockers is recommended during coadministration. Dose reduction of calcium channel blockers may be needed. 7.12 Digoxin Increased plasma concentrations of digoxin have been reported in patients receiving digoxin and posaconazole. Therefore, monitoring of digoxin plasma concentrations is recommended during coadministration. 7.13 Gastrointestinal Motility Agents Concomitant administration of metoclopramide with posaconazole delayed-release tablets did not affect the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. No dosage adjustment of posaconazole delayed-release tablets are required when given concomitantly with metoclopramide. 7.14 Glipizide Although no dosage adjustment of glipizide is required, it is recommended to monitor glucose concentrations when posaconazole and glipizide are concomitantly used. 7.16 Venetoclax Concomitant use of venetoclax (a CYP3A4 substrate) with posaconazole increases venetoclax C max and AUC 0-INF , which may increase venetoclax toxicities [ see Contraindications (4.6) , Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ]. Refer to the venetoclax prescribing information for more information on the dosing instructions and the extent of increase in venetoclax exposure. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Posaconazole is primarily metabolized via UDP glucuronosyltransferase and is a substrate of p- glycoprotein (P-gp) efflux. Therefore, plasma concentrations of drugs predominantly metabolized by CYP3A4 may be increased by posaconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The following information was derived from data with Noxafil ® oral suspension or early tablet formulation. Interaction Drug Interaction Rifabutin, phenytoin, efavirenz, cimetidine, Avoid coadministration unless the benefit outweighs the risks ( 7.6 , 7.7 , 7.8 , 7.9 ) Other drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 Consider dosage adjustment and monitor for adverse effects and toxicity ( 7.1 , 7.10 , 7.11 ) Digoxin Monitor digoxin plasma concentrations ( 7.12 ) Fosamprenavir Monitor for breakthrough fungal infections ( 7.6 , 7.13 ) 7.1 Immunosuppressants Metabolized by CYP3A4 Sirolimus: Concomitant administration of posaconazole with sirolimus increases the sirolimus blood concentrations by approximately 9-fold and can result in sirolimus toxicity. Therefore, posaconazole is contraindicated with sirolimus [see Contraindications (4.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Frequent monitoring of tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations should be performed during and at discontinuation of posaconazole treatment and the tacrolimus dose adjusted accordingly [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Frequent monitoring of cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations should be performed during and at discontinuation of posaconazole treatment and the cyclosporine dose adjusted accordingly [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Therefore, posaconazole is contraindicated with these drugs [see Contraindications (4.3) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . Therefore, posaconazole is contraindicated with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors primarily metabolized through CYP3A4 [see Contraindications (4.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Therefore, posaconazole is contraindicated with ergot alkaloids [see Contraindications (4.5) ] . Patients must be monitored closely for adverse effects associated with high plasma concentrations of benzodiazepines metabolized by CYP3A4 and benzodiazepine receptor antagonists must be available to reverse these effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.6 Anti-HIV Drugs Efavirenz: Efavirenz induces UDP-glucuronidase and significantly decreases posaconazole plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Ritonavir and Atazanavir: Ritonavir and atazanavir are metabolized by CYP3A4 and posaconazole increases plasma concentrations of these drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . If concomitant administration is required, close monitoring for breakthrough fungal infections is recommended [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Therefore, coadministration of rifabutin with posaconazole increases rifabutin plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Therefore, coadministration of phenytoin with posaconazole increases phenytoin plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.9 Gastric Acid Suppressors/Neutralizers No clinically relevant effects on the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole were observed when posaconazole delayed-release tablets are concomitantly used with antacids, H 2 -receptor antagonists and proton pump inhibitors [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . No dosage adjustment of posaconazole delayed-release tablets is required when posaconazole delayed-release tablets are concomitantly used with antacids, H 2 -receptor antagonists and proton pump inhibitors. Concomitant administration of azole antifungals, including posaconazole, with vincristine has been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . 7.13 Gastrointestinal Motility Agents Concomitant administration of metoclopramide with posaconazole delayed-release tablets did not affect the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . No dosage adjustment of posaconazole delayed-release tablets is required when given concomitantly with metoclopramide. 7.16 Venetoclax Concomitant use of venetoclax (a CYP3A4 substrate) with posaconazole increases venetoclax C max and AUC 0-INF, which may increase venetoclax toxicities [see Contraindications (4.6) , Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Posaconazole is primarily metabolized via UDP glucuronosyltransferase and is a substrate of p-glycoprotein (P-gp) efflux. The following information was derived from data with Noxafil oral suspension or early tablet formulation unless otherwise noted. All drug interactions with Noxafil oral suspension, except for those that affect the absorption of posaconazole (via gastric pH and motility) are considered relevant to posaconazole injection. Interaction Drug Interaction Rifabutin, phenytoin, efavirenz Avoid coadministration unless the benefit outweighs the risks ( 7.6 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) Other drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 Consider dosage adjustment and monitor for adverse effects and toxicity ( 7.1 , 7.10 , 7.11 ) Digoxin Monitor digoxin plasma concentrations ( 7.12 ) Fosamprenavir Monitor for breakthrough fungal infections ( 7.6 ) 7.1 Immunosuppressants Metabolized by CYP3A4 Sirolimus Concomitant administration of posaconazole with sirolimus increases the sirolimus blood concentrations by approximately 9-fold and can result in sirolimus toxicity. Tacrolimus Posaconazole has been shown to significantly increase the Cmax and AUC of tacrolimus. Cyclosporine Posaconazole has been shown to increase cyclosporine whole blood concentrations in heart transplant patients upon initiation of posaconazole treatment. Patients must be monitored closely for adverse effects associated with high plasma concentrations of benzodiazepines metabolized by CYP3A4 and benzodiazepine receptor antagonists must be available to reverse these effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Therefore, co-administration of rifabutin with posaconazole increases rifabutin plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Concomitant administration of azole antifungals, including posaconazole, with vincristine has been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . 7.16 Venetoclax Concomitant use of venetoclax (a CYP3A4 substrate) with posaconazole increases venetoclax Cmax and AUC0-INF, which may increase venetoclax toxicities [see Contraindications (4.6) , Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] . Therefore, plasma concentrations of drugs predominantly metabolized by CYP3A4 may be increased by posaconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . The following information was derived from data with posaconazole oral suspension or early tablet formulation unless otherwise noted. All drug interactions with posaconazole oral suspension, except for those that affect the absorption of posaconazole (via gastric pH and motility), are considered relevant to posaconazole injection, posaconazole delayed-release tablet, and posaconazole powder for delayed-release oral suspension as well [see Drug Interactions ( 7.9 ) and ( 7.13 )] . Interaction Drug Interaction Rifabutin, phenytoin, efavirenz, cimetidine, esomeprazole Avoid coadministration unless the benefit outweighs the risks ( 7.6 , 7.7 , 7.8 , 7.9 ) Other drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 Consider dosage adjustment and monitor for adverse effects and toxicity ( 7.1 , 7.10 , 7.11 ) Digoxin Monitor digoxin plasma concentrations ( 7.12 ) Fosamprenavir, metoclopramide Monitor for breakthrough fungal infections ( 7.6 , 7.13 ) 7.1 Immunosuppressants Metabolized by CYP3A4 Sirolimus: Concomitant administration of posaconazole with sirolimus increases the sirolimus blood concentrations by approximately 9-fold and can result in sirolimus toxicity. Therefore, posaconazole is contraindicated with sirolimus [see Contraindications ( 4.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Frequent monitoring of tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations should be performed during and at discontinuation of posaconazole treatment and the tacrolimus dose adjusted accordingly [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Frequent monitoring of cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations should be performed during and at discontinuation of posaconazole treatment and the cyclosporine dose adjusted accordingly [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Therefore, posaconazole is contraindicated with these drugs [see Contraindications ( 4.3 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . Therefore, posaconazole is contraindicated with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors primarily metabolized through CYP3A4 [see Contraindications ( 4.4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Therefore, posaconazole is contraindicated with ergot alkaloids [see Contraindications ( 4.5 )] . Patients must be monitored closely for adverse effects associated with high plasma concentrations of benzodiazepines metabolized by CYP3A4 and benzodiazepine receptor antagonists must be available to reverse these effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.6 Anti-HIV Drugs Efavirenz: Efavirenz induces UDP-glucuronidase and significantly decreases posaconazole plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Ritonavir and Atazanavir: Ritonavir and atazanavir are metabolized by CYP3A4 and posaconazole increases plasma concentrations of these drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . If concomitant administration is required, close monitoring for breakthrough fungal infections is recommended [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Therefore, coadministration of rifabutin with posaconazole increases rifabutin plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Therefore, coadministration of phenytoin with posaconazole increases phenytoin plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.9 Gastric Acid Suppressors/Neutralizers Cimetidine (an H 2 -receptor antagonist) and esomeprazole (a proton pump inhibitor) when given with posaconazole oral suspension results in decreased posaconazole plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . It is recommended to avoid concomitant use of cimetidine and esomeprazole with posaconazole oral suspension unless the benefit outweighs the risks. However, if concomitant administration is required, close monitoring for breakthrough fungal infections is recommended. No clinically relevant effects were observed when posaconazole oral suspension is concomitantly used with antacids and H 2 -receptor antagonists other than cimetidine. No dosage adjustment of posaconazole oral suspension is required when posaconazole oral suspension is concomitantly used with antacids and H 2 -receptor antagonists other than cimetidine. Concomitant administration of azole antifungals, including posaconazole, with vincristine has been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 )]. 7.13 Gastrointestinal Motility Agents Metoclopramide, when given with posaconazole oral suspension, decreases posaconazole plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. If metoclopramide is concomitantly administered with posaconazole oral suspension, it is recommended to closely monitor for breakthrough fungal infections. Loperamide does not affect posaconazole plasma concentrations after posaconazole oral suspension administration [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. No dosage adjustment of posaconazole oral suspension is required when loperamide and posaconazole oral suspension are used concomitantly. 7.16 Venetoclax Concomitant use of venetoclax (a CYP3A4 substrate) with posaconazole increases venetoclax C max and AUC 0-INF , which may increase venetoclax toxicities [see Contraindications ( 4.6 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )] . All drug interactions with Noxafil oral suspension, except for those that affect the absorption of posaconazole (via gastric pH and motility), are considered relevant to posaconazole injection as well. Interaction Drug Interaction Rifabutin, phenytoin, efavirenz, cimetidine Avoid coadministration unless the benefit outweighs the risks ( 7.6 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) Other drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 Consider dosage adjustment and monitor for adverse effects and toxicity ( 7.1 , 7.10 , 7.11 ) Digoxin Monitor digoxin plasma concentrations ( 7.12 ) Fosamprenavir Monitor for breakthrough fungal infections ( 7.6 ) 7.1 Immunosuppressants Metabolized by CYP3A4 Sirolimus: Concomitant administration of posaconazole with sirolimus increases the sirolimus blood concentrations by approximately 9-fold and can result in sirolimus toxicity. Patients must be monitored closely for adverse effects associated with high plasma concentrations of benzodiazepines metabolized by CYP3A4 and benzodiazepine receptor antagonists must be available to reverse these effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. If concomitant administration is required, close monitoring for breakthrough fungal infections is recommended [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Concomitant administration of azole antifungals, including posaconazole, with vincristine has been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. 7.16 Venetoclax Concomitant use of venetoclax (a CYP3A4 substrate) with posaconazole increases venetoclax C max and AUC 0-INF , which may increase venetoclax toxicities [see Contraindications (4.6) , Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ] . Interaction Drug Interaction Rifabutin, phenytoin, efavirenz Avoid coadministration unless the benefit outweighs the risks ( 7.6 , 7.7 , 7.8 ) Other drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 Consider dosage adjustment and monitor for adverse effects and toxicity ( 7.1 , 7.10 , 7.11 ) Digoxin Monitor digoxin plasma concentrations ( 7.12 ) Fosamprenavir Monitor for breakthrough fungal infections ( 7.6 ) 7.1 Immunosuppressants Metabolized by CYP3A4 Sirolimus: Concomitant administration of posaconazole with sirolimus increases the sirolimus blood concentrations by approximately 9-fold and can result in sirolimus toxicity. Concomitant administration of azole antifungals, including posaconazole injection, with vincristine has been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] . Therefore, reserve azole antifungals, including posaconazole injection, for patients receiving a vinca alkaloid, including vincristine, who have no alternative antifungal treatment options. Therefore, plasma concentrations of drugs predominantly metabolized by CYP3A4 may be increased by posaconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. All drug interactions with Noxafil ® oral suspension, except for those that affect the absorption of posaconazole (via gastric pH and motility), are considered relevant to posaconazole delayed-release tablet, as well [see Drug Interactions ( 7.9 ) and ( 7.13 )]. Interaction Drug Interaction Rifabutin, phenytoin, efavirenz, cimetidine Avoid coadministration unless the benefit outweighs the risks ( 7.6 , 7.7 , 7.8 , 7.9 ) Other drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 Consider dosage adjustment and monitor for adverse effects and toxicity ( 7.1 , 7.10 , 7.11 ) Digoxin Monitor digoxin plasma concentrations ( 7.12 ) Fosamprenavir Monitor for breakthrough fungal infections ( 7.6 , 7.13 ) 7.1 Immunosuppressants Metabolized by CYP3A4 Sirolimus : Concomitant administration of posaconazole with sirolimus increases the sirolimus blood concentrations by approximately 9-fold and can result in sirolimus toxicity. Therefore, posaconazole is contraindicated with sirolimus [see Contraindications ( 4.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Tacrolimus : Posaconazole has been shown to significantly increase the C max and AUC of tacrolimus. Cyclosporine : Posaconazole has been shown to increase cyclosporine whole blood concentrations in heart transplant patients upon initiation of posaconazole treatment. Frequent monitoring of cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations should be performed during and at discontinuation of posaconazole treatment and the cyclosporine dose adjusted accordingly [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Therefore, posaconazole is contraindicated with these drugs [see Contraindications ( 4.3 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Therefore, posaconazole is contraindicated with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors primarily metabolized through CYP3A4 [see Contraindications ( 4.4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Therefore, posaconazole is contraindicated with ergot alkaloids [see Contraindications ( 4.5 )]. 7.6 Anti-HIV Drugs Efavirenz : Efavirenz induces UDP-glucuronidase and significantly decreases posaconazole plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Ritonavir and Atazanavir : Ritonavir and atazanavir are metabolized by CYP3A4 and posaconazole increases plasma concentrations of these drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Fosamprenavir : Combining fosamprenavir with posaconazole may lead to decreased posaconazole plasma concentrations. If concomitant administration is required, close monitoring for breakthrough fungal infections is recommended [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.9 Gastric Acid Suppressors/Neutralizers No clinically relevant effects on the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole were observed when posaconazole delayed-release tablets are concomitantly used with antacids, H 2 -receptor antagonists and proton pump inhibitors [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. No dosage adjustment of posaconazole delayed-release tablets is required when concomitantly used with antacids, H 2 -receptor antagonists and proton pump inhibitors. 7.13 Gastrointestinal Motility Agents Concomitant administration of metoclopramide with posaconazole delayed-release tablets did not affect the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.16 Venetoclax Concomitant use of venetoclax (a CYP3A4 substrate) with posaconazole increases venetoclax C max and AUC 0-INF , which may increase venetoclax toxicities [see Contraindications (4.6 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 )]. 7.1 Immunosuppressants Metabolized by CYP3A4 Sirolimus : Concomitant administration of posaconazole with sirolimus increases the sirolimus blood concentrations by approximately 9-fold and can result in sirolimus toxicity. All drug interactions with Noxafil ® oral suspension, except for those that affect the absorption of posaconazole (via gastric pH and motility), are considered relevant to posaconazole delayed-release tablet as well [see Drug Interactions ( 7.9 ) and ( 7.13 )]. Patients must be monitored closely for adverse effects associated with high plasma concentrations of benzodiazepines metabolized by CYP3A4 and benzodiazepine receptor antagonists must be available to reverse these effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.6 Anti-HIV Drugs Efavirenz : Efavirenz induces UDP-glucuronidase and significantly decreases posaconazole plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Therefore, coadministration of rifabutin with posaconazole increases rifabutin plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Therefore, coadministration of phenytoin with posaconazole increases phenytoin plasma concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Concomitant administration of azole antifungals, including posaconazole, with vincristine has been associated with serious adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )]. 7.13 Gastrointestinal Motility Agents Concomitant administration of metoclopramide with posaconazole delayed-release tablets did not affect the pharmacokinetics of posaconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.16 Venetoclax Concomitant use of venetoclax (a CYP3A4 substrate) with posaconazole increases venetoclax C max and AUC 0-INF , which may increase venetoclax toxicities [see Contraindications ( 4.6 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )]. Therefore, plasma concentrations of drugs predominantly metabolized by CYP3A4 may be increased by posaconazole [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. The following information was derived from data with Noxafil ® (posaconazole) oral suspension or early tablet formulation unless otherwise noted. All drug interactions with Noxafil ® (posaconazole) oral suspension, except for those that affect the absorption of posaconazole (via gastric pH and motility), are considered relevant to posaconazole injection as well. Interaction Drug Interaction Rifabutin, phenytoin, efavirenz Avoid coadministration unless the benefit outweighs the risks ( 7.6 , 7.7, 7.8 ) Other drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 Consider dosage adjustment and monitor for adverse effects and toxicity ( 7.1, 7.10 , 7.11 ) Digoxin Monitor digoxin plasma concentrations ( 7.12 ) Fosamprenavir Monitor for breakthrough fungal infections ( 7.6 ) 7.1 Immunosuppressants Metabolized by CYP3A4 Sirolimus : Concomitant administration of posaconazole with sirolimus increases the sirolimus blood concentrations by approximately 9-fold and can result in sirolimus toxicity. Therefore, posaconazole is contraindicated with sirolimus [ see Contraindications ( 4.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Frequent monitoring of tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations should be performed during and at discontinuation of posaconazole treatment and the tacrolimus dose adjusted accordingly [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Frequent monitoring of cyclosporine whole blood trough concentrations should be performed during and at discontinuation of posaconazole treatment and the cyclosporine dose adjusted accordingly [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Therefore, posaconazole is contraindicated with these drugs [ see Contraindications ( 4.3 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ]. Therefore, posaconazole is contraindicated with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors primarily metabolized through CYP3A4 [ see Contraindications ( 4.4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Therefore, posaconazole is contraindicated with ergot alkaloids [ see Contraindications ( 4.5 ) ]. Patients must be monitored closely for adverse effects associated with high plasma concentrations of benzodiazepines metabolized by CYP3A4 and benzodiazepine receptor antagonists must be available to reverse these effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 7.6 Anti-HIV Drugs Efavirenz: Efavirenz induces UDP-glucuronidase and significantly decreases posaconazole plasma concentrations [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Ritonavir and Atazanavir : Ritonavir and atazanavir are metabolized by CYP3A4 and posaconazole increases plasma concentrations of these drugs [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. If concomitant administration is required, close monitoring for breakthrough fungal infections is recommended [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Therefore, coadministration of rifabutin with posaconazole increases rifabutin plasma concentrations [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Therefore, coadministration of phenytoin with posaconazole increases phenytoin plasma concentrations [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Concomitant administration of azole antifungals, including posaconazole, with vincristine has been associated with serious adverse reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.8 ) ]. 7.16 Venetoclax Concomitant use of venetoclax (a CYP3A4 substrate) with posaconazole increases venetoclax C max and AUC 0-INF , which may increase venetoclax toxicities [ see Contraindications ( 4.6 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.11 ) ].

=== SOLIFENACIN SUCCINATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Solifenacin succinate tablets are indicated for the treatment of adults with overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency, and urinary frequency. Solifenacin succinate tablets are a muscarinic antagonist indicated for the treatment of adults with overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency, and urinary frequency ( 1 ). Solifenacin succinate tablets are a muscarinic antagonist indicated for the treatment of adults with overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency, and urinary frequency. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Solifenacin succinate tablets is indicated for the treatment of adults with overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency, and urinary frequency. Solifenacin succinate tablets is a muscarinic antagonist indicated for the treatment of adults with overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency, and urinary frequency. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Solifenacin succinate tablet is indicated for the treatment of adults with overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency, and urinary frequency. Solifenacin succinate tablets are muscarinic antagonist indicated for the treatment of adults with overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency, and urinary frequency. (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Solifenacin succinate is indicated for the treatment of adults with overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency, and urinary frequency. Solifenacin succinate is a muscarinic antagonist indicated for the treatment of adults with overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency, and urinary frequency.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • 5 mg tablet taken orally once daily, and if well tolerated may be increased to 10 mg once daily ( 2.1 ). • Do not exceed the 5 mg dose of solifenacin succinate tablets in patients with: • Severe renal impairment creatinine clearance <30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ( 2.2 , 8.6 ). • Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B). Solifenacin succinate tablets are not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child- Pugh C) ( 2.3 , 8.7 ). • Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors ( 2.4 , 7.1 ). 2.1 Dosing Information The recommended oral dose of solifenacin succinate tablets is 5 mg once daily. If the 5 mg dose is well tolerated, the dose may be increased to 10 mg once daily. Solifenacin succinate tablets should be taken with water and swallowed whole. Solifenacin succinate tablets can be administered with or without food. 2.2 Dosing Recommendations in Patients with Renal Impairment Do not exceed 5 mg once daily in patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr <30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. 2.3 Dosing Recommendations in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Do not exceed 5 mg once daily in patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B). Do not use of solifenacin succinate tablets in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C) [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ]. 2.4 Dosing Recommendations in Patients Taking CYP3A4 Inhibitors Do not exceed 5 mg once daily when solifenacin succinate tablets are administered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole [ see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 5 mg tablet taken orally once daily, and if well tolerated may be increased to 10 mg once daily ( 2.1 ). Do not exceed the 5 mg dose of solifenacin succinate tablets in patients with: Severe renal impairment creatinine clearance <30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ( 2.2 , 8.6 ). Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B). Solifenacin succinate tablets is not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C) ( 2.3 , 8.7 ). Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors ( 2.4 , 7.1 ). 2.2 Dosing Recommendations in Patients with Renal Impairment Do not exceed 5 mg once daily in patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr <30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . Do not use solifenacin succinate tablets in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )] . 2.4 Dosing Recommendations in Patients Taking CYP3A4 Inhibitors Do not exceed 5 mg once daily when solifenacin succinate tablets are administered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • 5 mg tablet taken orally once daily, and if well tolerated may be increased to 10 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) • Do not exceed the 5 mg dose of solifenacin succinate in patients with: • Severe renal impairment creatinine clearance< 30 mL/min/1.73 m2. ( 2.2 , 8.6 ) • Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B). Solifenacin succinate is not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C). ( 2.3 , 8.7 ) • Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. ( 2.4 , 7.1 ) 2.1 Dosing Information The recommended oral dose of solifenacin succinate is 5 mg once daily. 2.2 Dosing Recommendations in Patients with Renal Impairment Do not exceed 5 mg once daily in patients with severe renal impairment (CLcr < 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) ] 2.3 Dosing Recommendations in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Do not exceed 5 mg once daily in patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B). Do not use in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) ]. 2.4 Dosing Recommendations in Patients Taking CYP3A4 Inhibitors Do not exceed 5 mg once daily when solifenacin succinate is administered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole [ see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION •5 mg tablet taken orally once daily, and if well tolerated may be increased to 10 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) •Do not exceed the 5 mg dose of Solifenacin Succinate Tablets in patients with: o Severe renal impairment creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 . ( 2.2 , 8.6 ) o Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B). Solifenacin Succinate Tablets are not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C). ( 2.3 , 8.7 ) o Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. ( 2.4 , 7.1 ) 2.1 Dosing Information The recommended oral dose of Solifenacin Succinate Tablets is 5 mg once daily. 2.2 Dosing Recommendations in Patients with Renal Impairment Do not exceed 5 mg once daily in patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr < 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )] . 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION 5 mg tablet taken orally once daily, and if well tolerated may be increased to 10 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) Do not exceed the 5 mg dose of solifenacin succinate tablets in patients with: Severe renal impairment creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 . ( 2.2 , 8.6 ) Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B). Solifenacin succinate tablets is not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child- Pugh C). ( 2.3 , 8.7 ) Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. 2.2 Dosing Recommendations in Patients with Renal Impairment Do not exceed 5 mg once daily in patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr < 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) ] . 2.4 Dosing Recommendations in Patients Taking CYP3A4 Inhibitors Do not exceed 5 mg once daily when solifenacin succinate tablets is administered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ● 5 mg tablet taken orally once daily, and if well tolerated may be increased to 10 mg once daily. (2.1) ● Do not exceed the 5 mg dose of solifenacin succinate tablets in patients with: o Severe renal impairment creatinine clearance <30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 (2.2, 8.6). o Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B). Solifenacin succinate tablets are not recommended in patient with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C). (2.3, 8.7). o Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. (2.4, 7.1) 2.1 Dosing Information The recommended oral dose of solifenacin succinate tablet is 5 mg once daily. 2.2 Dosing Recommendations in Patients with Renal Impairment Do not exceed 5 mg once daily in patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr <30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)] . Do not use solifenacin succinate tablets in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7)] . 2.4 Dosing Recommendations in Patients Taking CYP3A4 Inhibitors Do not exceed 5 mg once daily when solifenacin succinate tablets are administered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 5 mg tablet taken orally once daily, and if well tolerated may be increased to 10 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) Do not exceed the 5 mg dose of solifenacin succinate in patients with: Severe renal impairment creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 . Solifenacin succinate should be taken with water and swallowed whole. Solifenacin succinate can be administered with or without food. 2.2 Dosing Recommendations in Patients with Renal Impairment Do not exceed 5 mg once daily in patients with severe renal impairment (CL cr < 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . Do not use solifenacin succinate in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ]. 2.4 Dosing Recommendations in Patients Taking CYP3A4 Inhibitors Do not exceed 5 mg once daily when solifenacin succinate is administered with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ].
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Solifenacin succinate tablets are contraindicated in patients: • With urinary retention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ], • With gastric retention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ], • With uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ], and • Who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to solifenacin succinate or the inactive ingredients in solifenacin succinate tablets. Reported adverse reactions have included anaphylaxis and angioedema [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ) ]. • Urinary retention ( 4 , 5.2 ). • Gastric retention ( 4 , 5.3 ). • Uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma ( 4 , 5.5 ). • Hypersensitivity to this product or any of its components ( 4 , 5.1 , 6.2 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Solifenacin succinate tablets are contraindicated in patients: With urinary retention [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] , With gastric retention [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] , With uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] , and Who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to solifenacin succinate or the inactive ingredients in solifenacin succinate tablets. Reported adverse reactions have included anaphylaxis and angioedema [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )] . Urinary retention ( 4 , 5.2 ). Gastric retention ( 4 , 5.3 ). Uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma ( 4 , 5.5 ). Hypersensitivity to this product or any of its components ( 4 , 5.1 , 6.2 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Solifenacin succinate is contraindicated in patients: • With urinary retention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ], • With gastric retention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ], • With uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ], and • Who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to solifenacin succinate or the inactive ingradients in solifenacin succinate. • Urinary retention. ( 4 , 5.2 ) • Gastric retention. ( 4 , 5.3 ) • Uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma. ( 4 , 5.5 ) • Hypersensitivity to this product or any of its components. ( 4 , 5.1 , 6.2 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Solifenacin Succinate Tablets are contraindicated in patients: •With urinary retention [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] , •With gastric retention [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] , •With uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] , and •Who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to solifenacin succinate or the inactive ingredients in Solifenacin Succinate Tablets. Urinary retention. ( 4 , 5.2 ) Gastric retention. ( 4 , 5.3 ) Uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma. ( 4 , 5.5 ) Hypersensitivity to this product or any of its components. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Solifenacin succinate is contraindicated in patients: With urinary retention [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) ] , With gastric retention [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ] , With uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] , and Who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to solifenacin succinate or the inactive ingredients in solifenacin tablets. Reported adverse reactions have included anaphylaxis and angioedema [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 ) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Solifenacin succinate tablets are contraindicated in patients: With urinary retention [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)], With gastric retention [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)], With uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)], and Who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to solifenacin succinate or the inactive ingredients in solifenacin succinate tablets. Reported adverse reactions have included anaphylaxis and angioedema [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. (4, 5.2) Gastric retention. (4, 5.3) Uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma. (4, 5.5) Hypersensitivity to this product or any of its components. (4, 5.1, 6.2) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Solifenacin succinate is contraindicated in patients: With urinary retention [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ], With gastric retention [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ], With uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] , and Who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to solifenacin succinate or the inactive ingredients in solifenacin succinate tablets. Reported adverse reactions have included anaphylaxis and angioedema [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ].
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP3A4 Inhibitors : Do not exceed the 5 mg dose of solifenacin succinate with concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors ( 7.1 ). 7.1 Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Solifenacin is a substrate of CYP3A4. Concomitant use of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, significantly increased the exposure of solifenacin [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. The dosage of solifenacin succinate greater than 5 mg once daily is not recommended when concomitantly used with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP3A4 Inhibitors : Do not exceed the 5 mg dose of solifenacin succinate with concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Solifenacin is a substrate of CYP3A4. Concomitant use of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, significantly increased the exposure of solifenacin [see Clinical Pharmacology (1 2.3 )] . The dosage of solifenacin succinate greater than 5 mg once daily is not recommended when concomitantly used with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP3A4 Inhibitors : Do not exceed 5 mg dose of solifenacin succinate with concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP3A4 Inhibitors : Do not exceed the 5 mg dose of Solifenacin Succinate Tablets with concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Concomitant use of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, significantly increased the exposure of solifenacin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . The dosage of Solifenacin Succinate Tablets greater than 5 mg once daily is not recommended when concomitantly used with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP3A4 Inhibitors: Do not exceed the 5 mg dose of solifenacin succinate with concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. Concomitant use of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, significantly increased the exposure of solifenacin [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . The dosage of solifenacin succinate greater than 5 mg once daily is not recommended when concomitantly used with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ) ] . (7.1) 7.1 Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Solifenacin is a substrate of CYP3A4. Concomitant use of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, significantly increased the exposure of solifenacin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . The dosage of solifenacin succinate tablets greater than 5 mg once daily is not recommended when concomitantly used with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Dosage and Administration (2.4)] . Concomitant use of ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, significantly increased the exposure of solifenacin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The dosage of solifenacin succinate greater than 5 mg once daily is not recommended when concomitantly used with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] .

=== COAL TAR ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Anti-dandruff, anti-seborrheic dermatitis, anti-psoriasis Purpose Section Purpose Psoriasis/Sebhorreic Dermatitis Treatment Purpose Anti-dandruff, anti-seborrheic dematitis, anti-psoriasis Purpose Anti-dandruff Purpose : Anti-itch, anti-dandruff, anti-seborrheic dermatitis, anti-psoriasis Purposes Antidandruff, Seborrhic dematitis, Psoriasis
Indications: Use controls the symptom of: dandruff seborrheic dermatitis psoriasis Uses Section Uses For the relief of symptoms associated with psoriasis and or seborrheic dermatitis including itching, scaling, flaking, redness and irritation of the skin. Helps prevent recurrences. Treats eczema. Use controls the symptoms of dandruff seborrheic dermatitis psoriasis Uses : Reduces and helps prevent recurrence of these symptoms of dandruff: scalp irritation and itching • flaking • scaling • extra relief of itching due to dandruff Uses Controls the symptoms of dandruf seborrheic dermatitis psoriasis
Dosage: Directions for best results use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor wet hair thoroughly massage shampoo into the scalp lather, leave on hair and scalp for several minutes. rinse and repeat Directions Section Directions Apply to affected areas as directed by a doctor. Apply as needed to affected areas as often as needed (up to four times per day) Directions for best results use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor wet hair thoroughly massage shampoo into the scalp lather. Leave on hair and scalp for several minutes rinse and repeat Directions wet hair thoroughly apply the shampoo into the scalp and massage lather and leave on hair and scalp for several minutes rinse and repeat for best results use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor. Directions : for best results, use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor shake well before use apply to wet hair massage into scalp, leave lather on for several minutes rinse thoroughly and repeat for maximum relief Directions wet hair thoroughly massage shampoo into your scalp lather, leaving on your hair and scalp for a few minutes rinse and repeat for best results use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor
Warnings: Warnings For external use only. Ask a doctor before using this product if condition covers a large area of the body. When using this product avoid contact with the eyes. If contact occurs, rinse eyes thoroughly with water use caution in exposing skin to sunlight after applying this product. It may increase your tendency to sunburn for up to 24 hours after application. do not use for prolonged periods without consulting a doctor. do not use this product with other forms of psoriasis therapy such as ultraviolet radiation or prescription drugs unless directed to do so by a doctor. Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve after regular use of this product as directed. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings Section Warnings For external use only. Ask a doctor before use For prolonged periods If condition covers a large area of the body Around the rectum or in the genital area or groin With other forms of psoriasis therapy such as ultraviolet radiation or prescription drugs. Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor before use if condition covers a large part of the body. If contact occurs, rinse eyes thoroughly with water. use caution in exposing skin to sunlight after applying this product. do not use for prolonged periods without consulting a doctor do not use this product with other forms of psoriasis therapy such as ultra violet radiation or prescription drugs unless directed to do so by a doctor. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor before use if you have a condition which covers a large part of the body. When using this product do not get into eyes. do not use for prolonged periods without consulting a doctor do not use with other forms of psoriasis therapy such as ultra violet radiation or prescription drugs unless directed to do so by a doctor. Ask a doctor before use if you have a condition that covers a large area of the body. Directions for best results use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor wet hair thoroughly massage shampoo into the scalp lather, leave on hair and scalp for several minutes. rinse and repeat Warnings : For external use only Ask a doctor before use if you have a condition covers a large area of the body. When using this product avoid contact with eyes. If contact occurs, rinse thoroughly with water Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve after regular use of this product as directed. Warnings For external use only Do not use for prolonged periods without consulting a doctor this product with other forms of psoriasis therapy such as ultraviolet radiation or prescription drugs unless directed to do so by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have a condition that covers a large area of the body When using this product avoid contact with the eyes. It may increase your tendency to sunburn for up to 24 hours after application Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve after regular use of this product as directed Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.

=== DESOXIMETASONE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Desoximetasone cream USP, 0.05%, desoximetasone cream USP, 0.25%, and desoximetasone gel USP, 0.05% are indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Desoximetasone Ointment USP, 0.25% is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Desoximetasone cream USP, 0.25% is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Desoximetasone topical spray is a corticosteroid indicated for the treatment of plaque psoriasis in patients 18 years of age or older. Desoximetasone topical spray is a corticosteroid indicated for the treatment of plaque psoriasis in patients 18 years of age or older ( 1 ). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Desoximetasone Ointment USP, 0.05% is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Desoximetasone cream, 0.25% is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of desoximetasone cream USP, 0.05%, desoximetasone cream USP, 0.25%, or desoximetasone gel USP, 0.05% to the affected skin areas twice daily. Rub in gently. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of Desoximetasone Ointment USP, 0.25% to the affected skin areas twice daily. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of desoximetasone cream USP, 0.25% to the affected skin areas twice daily. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply desoximetasone topical spray as a thin film to the affected skin areas twice daily. Do not bandage or otherwise cover or wrap the treated skin unless directed by the physician. Discontinue treatment when control is achieved. Treatment beyond 4 weeks is not recommended. Do not use if atrophy is present at the treatment site. Avoid use on the face, axilla or groin. Desoximetasone topical spray is for external use only. It is not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. • Apply a thin film to the affected skin areas twice daily. ( 2 ) • Discontinue treatment when control is achieved. ( 2 ) • Treatment beyond 4 weeks is not recommended. ( 2 ) • Do not use if atrophy is present at the treatment site. ( 2 ) • Do not use with occlusive dressings, unless directed by the physician. ( 2 ) • Avoid use on the face, axilla or groin. ( 2 ) • Not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. ( 2 ) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of Desoximetasone Ointment USP, 0.05% to the affected skin areas twice daily.
Warnings: WARNINGS Keep out of reach of children. WARNINGS Desoximetasone Cream USP, 0.25% is not for ophthalmic use. Keep out of reach of children. WARNINGS Desoximetasone cream, 0.25% is not for ophthalmic use.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Desoximetasone cream USP, 0.05%, desoximetasone cream USP, 0.25%, and desoximetasone gel USP, 0.05% are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation. CONTRAINDICATIONS Desoximetasone ointment USP, 0.25% is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation. CONTRAINDICATIONS Desoximetasone cream USP, 0.25% is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Desoximetasone Ointment USP, 0.05% is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation. CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation.

=== DIMENHYDRINATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antiemetic
Indications: Uses for prevention and treatment of these symptoms associated with motion sickness: nausea vomiting dizziness Use for prevention and treatment of these symptoms associated with motion sickness: nausea vomiting dizziness Use for prevention and treatment of these symptoms associated with motion sickness: nausea dizziness vomiting
Dosage: Directions to prevent motion sickness, the first dose should be taken one-half to one hour before starting activity adults and children 12 years and over 1 to 2 tablets every 4-6 hours; do not exceed 8 tablets in 24 hours, or as directed by a doctor children 6 to under 12 years 1/2 to 1 tablet every 6-8 hours; do not exceed 3 tablets in 24 hours, or as directed by a doctor children 2 to under 6 years 1/2 tablet every 6-8 hours; do not exceed 1&1/2 tablets in 24 hours, or as directed by a doctor Directions to prevent motion sickness, the first dose should be taken one-half to one hour before starting activity adults and children 12 years and over 1 to 2 tablets every 4-6 hours; do not exceed 8 tablets in 24 hours, or as directed by a doctor children 6 to under 12 years 1/2 to 1 tablet every 6-8 hours; do not exceed 3 tablets in 24 hours, or as directed by a doctor children 2 to under 6 years 1/2 tablet every 6-8 hours; do not exceed 1 1/2 tablets in 24 hours, or as directed by a doctor Directions to prevent motion sickness, the first dose should be taken ½ to 1 hour before starting activity to prevent or treat motion sickness, see below: Children 2 to under 6 years give ½ to 1 chewable tablet every 6-8 hours do not give more than 3 chewable tablets in 24 hours, or as directed by a doctor Children 6 to under 12 years give 1 to 2 chewable tablets every 6-8 hours do not give more than 6 chewable tablets in 24 hours, or as directed by a doctor Directions to prevent motion sickness, the first dose should be taken ½ to 1 hour before starting activity to prevent or treat motion sickness, see below: Adults and children 12 years and over ​ ​take 1 to 2 tablets every 4-6 hours do not take more than 8 tablets in 24 hours, or as directed by a doctor Children 6 to under 12 years give ½ to 1 tablet every 6-8 hours do not give more than 3 tablets in 24 hours, or as directed by a doctor Children 2 to under 6 years give ½ tablet every 6-8 hours do not give more than 1 ½ tablets in 24 hours, or as directed by a doctor Directions To prevent motion sickness, the first dose should be taken ½ to 1 hour before starting activity To prevent or treat motion sickness see below: Children 2 to under 6 years Give ½ to 1 chewable tablet every 6-8 hours Do not give more than 3 chewable tablets in 24 hours or as directed by a doctor Children 6 to 12 years Give 1 to 2 chewable tablets every 6-8 hours Do not give more than 6 chewable tablets in 24 hours, or as directed by a doctor Directions to prevent motion sickness, the first dose should be taken one-half to one hour before starting activity adults and children 12 years and over 1 to 2 tablets every 4-6 hours; do not exceed 8 tablets in 24 hours, or as directed by a doctor children 6 to under 12 years ½ to 1 tablet every 6-8 hours; do not exceed 3 tablets in 24 hours, or as directed by a doctor children 2 to under 6 years ½ tablet every 6-8 hours; do not exceed 1½ tablets in 24 hours, or as directed by a doctor Directions To prevent motion sickness, the first dose should be taken ½ to 1 hour before starting activity To prevent or treat motion sickness see below: Children 2 to under 6 years Give ½ to 1 chewable tablet every 6-8 hours Do not give more than 3 chewable tablets in 24 hours or as directed by a doctor Children 6 to 12 years Give 1 to 2 chewable talets every 6-8 hours Do not give more than 6 chewable tablets in 24 hours, or as directed by a doctor
Warnings: Warnings Do not use for children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor. Ask a doctor before use if you have a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis glaucoma difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers. When using this product marked drowsiness may occur alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness use caution when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery avoid alcoholic beverages If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Ask a doctor before use if you have glaucoma a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers. When using this product marked drowsiness may occur avoid alcoholic beverages alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness use caution when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Warnings Do not use for children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if the child has a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis glaucoma Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if the child is taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product marked drowsiness may occur avoid alcoholic drinks alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a doctor before use. In case of accidental overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings Do not give to children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor. Ask a doctor b efore use if the child has a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis glaucoma Ask a doctor before use if the child is taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product marked drowsiness may occur sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness Keep out of reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) immediately. Warnings Do not use for children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor b efore use if the c hild has A breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis Glaucoma Ask a doctor before use if the child is taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product Marked drowsiness may occur Avoid alcoholic drinks Alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness Be careful when dricing a motor vehicle or opereating machinery If pregnant or breast-fee d ing , ask a doctor before use Keep out of reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Contorl Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. When using this product alcohol, sedatives, and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness marked drowsiness may occur use caution when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery avoid alcoholic beverages If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use.

=== FLUPHENAZINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluphenazine hydrochloride is indicated in the management of manifestations of psychotic disorders. Fluphenazine hydrochloride has not been shown effective in the management of behavioral complications in patients with mental retardation. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluphenazine hydrochloride tablets are indicated in the management of manifestations of psychotic disorders. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluphenazine hydrochloride tablets, USP are indicated in the management of manifestations of psychotic disorders. Fluphenazine hydrochloride USP has not been shown effective in the management of behavioral complications in patients with mental retardation. INDICATIONS & USAGE Fluphenazine hydrochloride tablets are indicated in the management of manifestations of psychotic disorders.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Depending on the severity and duration of symptoms, total daily dosage for adult psychotic patients may range initially from 2.5 to 10 mg and should be divided and given at six- to eight- hour intervals. The smallest amount that will produce the desired results must be carefully determined for each individual, since optimal dosage levels of this potent drug may vary from patient to patient. In general, the oral dose has been found to be approximately two to three times the parenteral dose of fluphenazine. Treatment is best instituted with a low initial dosage, which may be increased, if necessary, until the desired clinical effects are achieved. Therapeutic effect is often achieved with doses under 20 mg daily. Patients remaining severely disturbed or inadequately controlled may require upward titration of dosage. Daily doses up to 40 mg may be necessary; controlled clinical studies have not been performed to demonstrate safety of prolonged administration of such doses. When symptoms are controlled, dosage can generally be reduced gradually to daily maintenance doses of 1 to 5 mg, often given as a single daily dose. Continued treatment is needed to achieve maximum therapeutic benefits; further adjustments in dosage may be necessary during the course of therapy to meet the patient's requirements. For psychotic patients who have been stabilized on a fixed daily dosage of orally administered Fluphenazine Hydrochloride dosage forms, conversion to the long-acting injectable Fluphenazine Decanoate may be indicated [see package insert for Fluphenazine Decanoate Injection for conversion information]. For geriatric patients, the suggested starting dose is 1 to 2.5 mg daily, adjusted according to the response of the patient. When the Oral Concentrate dosage form is to be used, the desired dose (measured by a calibrated device only) should be added to at least 60 mL (2 fl oz) of a suitable diluent just prior to administration to ensure palatability and stability. Suggested diluents include tomato or fruit juice, milk, and uncaffeinated soft drinks. The Oral Concentrate should not be mixed with beverages containing caffeine (coffee, cola), tannics (tea), or pectinates (apple juice) because of the potential incompatibility. Fluphenazine Hydrochloride Injection USP is useful when psychotic patients are unable or unwilling to take oral therapy. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Depending on severity and duration of symptoms, total daily dosage for adult psychotic patients may range initially from 2.5 mg to 10 mg and should be divided and given at 6 to 8 hour intervals. The smallest amount that will produce the desired results must be carefully determined for each individual, since optimal dosage levels of this potent drug vary from patient to patient. In general, the oral dose has been found to be approximately 2 to 3 times the parenteral dose of fluphenazine. Treatment is best instituted with a low initial dosage , which may be increased, if necessary, until the desired clinical effects are achieved. When symptoms are controlled, dosage can generally be reduced gradually to daily maintenance doses of 1 mg to 5 mg, often given as a single daily dose. Continued treatment is needed to achieve maximum therapeutic benefits; further adjustments in dosage may be necessary during the course of therapy to meet the patient’s requirements. For psychotic patients who have been stabilized on a fixed daily dosage of orally administered fluphenazine hydrochloride dosage forms, conversion to the long-acting fluphenazine decanoate may be indicated (see package insert for fluphenazine decanoate for conversion information). For geriatric patients, the suggested starting dose is 1 mg to 2.5 mg daily, adjusted according to the response of the patient. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Depending on the severity and duration of symptoms, total daily dosage for adult psychotic patients may range initially from 2.5 mg to 10 mg and should be divided and given at six- to eight-hour intervals. For psychotic patients who have been stabilized on a fixed daily dosage of orally administered fluphenazine hydrochloride dosage forms, conversion to the long-acting fluphenazine decanoate may be indicated [see package insert for fluphenazine decanoate for conversion information]. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Depending on severity and duration of symptoms, total daily dosage for adult psychotic patients may range initially from 2.5 mg to 10 mg and should be divided and given at 6 hour to 8 hour intervals. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Depending on the severity and duration of symptoms, total daily dosage for adult psychotic patients may range initially from 2.5 mg to 10 mg and should be divided and given at 6 to 8 hour intervals. For psychotic patients who have been stabilized on a fixed daily dosage of orally administered fluphenazine hydrochloride dosage forms, conversion to the long-acting fluphenazine decanoate may be indicated (see package insert for conversion information). DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Depending on severity and duration of symptoms, total daily dosage for adult psychotic patients may range initially from 2.5 mg to 10 mg and should be divided and given at 6 to 8 hour intervals. Daily doses up to 40 mg may be necessary; controlled clinical studies have not been performed to demonstrate safety of prolonged administration of suchdoses.
Warnings: WARNINGS Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. Fluphenazine Hydrochloride Oral Solution USP (Concentrate) is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis ( see BOXED WARNING ). Tardive Dyskinesia Tardive dyskinesia, a syndrome consisting of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements may develop in patients treated with neuroleptic (antipsychotic) drugs. Although the prevalence of the syndrome appears to be the highest among the elderly, especially elderly women, it is impossible to rely upon prevalence estimates to predict, at the inception of neuroleptic treatment, which patients are likely to develop the syndrome. Whether neuroleptic drug products differ in their potential to cause tardive dyskinesia is unknown. Both the risk of developing the syndrome and the likelihood that it will become irreversible are believed to increase as the duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose of neuroleptic drugs administered to the patient increase. However, the syndrome can develop although much less commonly, after relatively brief treatment periods at low doses. There is no known treatment for established cases of tardive dyskinesia, although the syndrome may remit, partially or completely, if neuroleptic treatment is withdrawn. Neuroleptic treatment, itself, however, may suppress (or partially suppress) the signs and symptoms of the syndrome and thereby may possibly mask the underlying disease process. The effect that symptomatic suppression has upon the long-term course of the syndrome is unknown. Given these considerations, neuroleptics should be prescribed in a manner that is most likely to minimize the occurrence of tardive dyskinesia. Chronic neuroleptic treatment should generally be reserved for patients who suffer from a chronic illness that, 1) is known to respond to neuroleptic drugs, and, 2) for whom alternative, equally effective, but potentially less harmful treatments are not available or appropriate. In patients who do require chronic treatment, the smallest dose and the shortest duration of treatment producing a satisfactory clinical response should be sought. The need for continued treatment should be reassessed periodically. If signs and symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear in a patient on neuroleptics, drug discontinuation should be considered. However, some patients may require treatment despite the presence of the syndrome. (For further information about the description of tardive dyskinesia and its clinical detection, please refer to the sections on PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients and ADVERSE REACTIONS, Tardive Dyskinesia .) Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs. Clinical manifestations of NMS are hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status and evidence of autonomic instability (irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, and cardiac dysrhythmias). The diagnostic evaluation of patients with this syndrome is complicated. In arriving at a diagnosis, it is important to identify cases where the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness (e.g., pneumonia, systemic infection, etc.) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms (EPS). Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity, heat stroke, drug fever and primary central nervous system (CNS) pathology. The management of NMS should include 1) immediate discontinuation of antipsychotic drugs and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy, 2) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring, and 3) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. There is no general agreement about specific pharmacological treatment regimens for uncomplicated NMS. If a patient requires antipsychotic drug treatment after recovery from NMS, the potential reintroduction of drug therapy should be carefully considered. The patient should be carefully monitored, since recurrences of NMS have been reported. The use of this drug may impair the mental and physical abilities required for driving a car or operating heavy machinery. Potentiation of the effects of alcohol may occur with the use of this drug. Since there is no adequate experience in children who have received this drug, safety and efficacy in children have not been established. Falls Fluphenazine hydrochloride may cause somnolence, postural hypotension, motor and sensory instability, which may lead to falls and, consequently, fractures or other injuries. For patients with diseases, conditions, or medications that could exacerbate these effects, complete fall risk assessments when initiating antipsychotic treatment and recurrently for patients on long-term antipsychotic therapy. Usage In Pregnancy Non-teratogenic Effects Neonates exposed to antipsychotic drugs, during the third trimester of pregnancy are at risk for extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms following delivery. There have been reports of agitation, hypertonia, hypotonia, tremor, somnolence, respiratory distress and feeding disorder in these neonates. These complications have varied in severity; while in some cases symptoms have been self-limited, in other cases neonates have required intensive care unit support and prolonged hospitalization. Fluphenazine hydrochloride should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. The safety for the use of this drug during pregnancy has not been established; therefore, the possible hazards should be weighed against the potential benefits when administering this drug to pregnant patients. WARNINGS Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis: Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. Fluphenazine hydrochloride is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis (see BOXED WARNING). Tardive Dyskinesia: Tardive dyskinesia, a syndrome consisting of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements may develop in patients treated with neuroleptic (antipsychotic) drugs. Although the prevalence of the syndrome appears to be highest among the elderly, especially elderly women, it is impossible to rely upon prevalence estimates to predict, at the inception of neuroleptic treatment, which patients are likely to develop the syndrome. However, the syndrome can develop, although much less commonly, after relatively brief treatment periods at low doses. Neuroleptic treatment itself, however, may suppress (or partially suppress) the signs and symptoms of the syndrome and thereby may possibly mask the underlying disease process. (For further information about the description of tardive dyskinesia and its clinical detection, please refer to the sections on PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients and ADVERSE REACTIONS, Tardive Dyskinesia. ) Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS): A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs. The management of NMS should include: 1) immediate discontinuation of antipsychotic drugs and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy, 2) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring, and, 3) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. Falls Fluphenazine hydrochloride tablets may cause somnolence, postural hypotension, motor and sensory instability, which may lead to falls and, consequently, fractures or other injuries. Usage in Pregnancy: The safety for the use of this drug during pregnancy has not been established; therefore, the possible hazards should be weighed against the potential benefits when administering this drug to pregnant patients. Non-teratogenic Effects Neonates exposed to antipsychotic drugs, during the third trimester of pregnancy are at risk for extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms following delivery. Fluphenazine hydrochloride is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis (see BOXED WARNING ). Tardive Dyskinesia Tardive dyskinesia, a syndrome consisting of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements may develop in patients treated with neuroleptic (anti-psychotic) drugs. The effect that symptomatic suppression has upon the long- term course of the syndrome is unknown. (For further information about the description of tardive dyskinesia and its clinical detection, please refer to the sections on PRECAUTIONS , Information for Patients and ADVERSE REACTIONS , Tardive Dyskinesia ). Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs. The diagnosis evaluation of patients with this syndrome is complicated. The management of NMS should include: 1) immediate discontinuation of antipsychotic drugs and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy; 2) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring; and 3) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. The use of this drug may impair the mental and physical abilities required for driving or operating heavy machinery. Usage in Pregnancy The safety for the use of this drug during pregnancy has not been established; therefore, the possible hazards should be weighed against the potential benefits when administering this drug to pregnant patients. Falls Fluphenazine hydrochloride tablets, USP may cause somnolence, postural hypotension, motor and sensory instability, which may lead to falls and, consequently, fractures or other injuries. (For further information about the description of tardive dyskinesia and its clinical detection, please refer to the sections on PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients and ADVERSE REACTIONS, Tardive Dyskinesia .) Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS): A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs. (For further information about the description of tardive dyskinesia and its clinical detection, please refer to the sections on PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients and ADVERSE REACTIONS: Tardive Dyskinesia ). The management of NMS should include: 1) immediate discontinuation of antipsychotic drugs and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy, 2) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring, and 3) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. Pregnancy Nonteratogenic Effects Neonates exposed to antipsychotic drugs, during the third trimester of pregnancy are at risk for extrapyramidal and/or withdrawal symptoms following delivery. Although the prevalence of the syndrome appears to be highest among the elderly, especially elderly women, it is impossible to rely upon prevalence estimates to predict, at the inception of neuroleptic treatment, which patients are likely todevelop the syndrome. Whether neuroleptic drugproducts differ in their potential to cause tardive dyskinesia isunknown. The need for continued treatment should be reassessedperiodically. The patient should be carefully monitored, since recurrences of NMS have beenreported. Usage inPregnancy: The safety for the use of this drug during pregnancy has not been established; therefore, the possible hazards should be weighed against the potential benefits when administering this drug to pregnant patients.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Phenothiazines are contraindicated in patients with suspected or established subcortical brain damage, in patients receiving large doses of hypnotics, and in comatose or severely depressed states. The presence of blood dyscrasia or liver damage precludes the use of fluphenazine hydrochloride. Fluphenazine hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients who have shown hypersensitivity to fluphenazine; cross-sensitivity to phenothiazine derivatives may occur. Fluphenazine hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients who have shown hypersensitivity to fluphenazine; cross-sensitivity to phenothiazine derivatives may occur.

=== MAGNESIUM SULFATE HEPTAHYDRATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: MEB Gluco-Vitality Patch Active Ingredients Purpose Ferum Metalicum 7X HPUS …………………… Congestion of Blood Magnesia Sulphurica 7X HPUS ……………….. Diabetes Phosphorus 6X HPUS …………………………… Vascular Deases Calcarea Fluorata 6X HPUS …………………… Vessels-lipids Zincum Metallicum 8X HPUS ………………….. Varicose Vein Vanadium Metallicum 12X HPUS……………….. Atheroma of Arteries Sulphur 4X HPUS…………………………………. Varicosities MEB PainGuard Patch Active Ingredient ................................................ Purpose Alumina Silicata 5X HPUS.………………………. Muscle Pain Calcarea Silicata 5X HPUS………………..…….. Joint Pain Calcarea Fluorata 6X HPUS……………………. Joint Pain, Inflammation Ferrum Phosphoricum 7X HPUS.………………. Inflammation, Articular Rheumatism Ferrum Muriaticum 7X HPUS…………………… Rheumatism Pain Natrum Nitricum 5X HPUS……………………… Inflammation Magnesia Muriatica 7X HPUS…………………. Inflammation Maganum Metallicum 12X HPUS……………… Gout, Chronic Arthritis Sulphur 4X HPUS………………………………… Pain, Inflammation Vanadium Metallicum 12X HPUS………………. Gout Zincum Metalicum 8X …………………………….. Cramping, Pain, Sore Active Ingredients Purpose Silicea 4X HPUS ………………………………….. Asthma, immune deficiency Sulphur 4X HPUS………………………………….. Asthma Ferrum Phosphoricum 7X HPUS.………………… Stomach Disease Ferrum Muriaticum 7X HPUS…………………….. Asthma, Stomach Disease Titanium Metallicum 7X……………………………. Rhinitis Natrum Nitricum 5X HPUS……………………….. Stomach Disease Calcarea Fluorata 6X HPUS……………………… Rhinitis Phosphorus 6X HPUS…………………………….. Stomach Disease Magnesia Sulphurica 7X HPUS …………………. Diabetes, Stomach Disease Magnesia Muriatica 7X HPUS…………………. Stomach Disease Zincum Metalicum 8X …………………………….. Stomach Disease Ulcers Sulphur 4X HPUS………………………………….. Tumour Ferrum Phosphoricum 7X HPUS.………………… Inflammation, Ulcers Natrum Nitricum 5X HPUS……………………….. Inflammation Calcarea Fluorata 6X HPUS……………………… Inflammation, Tumor Magnesia Sulphurica 7X HPUS …………………. Internal Disease Magnesia Muriatica 7X HPUS…………………. Inflammation Zincum Metalicum 8X …………………………….. Internal Disease Purpose Saline laxative Active ingredient Purpose Magensium sulfate heptahydrate 100%.................................... Laxative
Indications: The MEB PainGuard Patch is designed to provide effective pain relief and treat various types of pain, providing fast-acting and long-lasting relief from pain, helping to alleviate discomfort caused by muscle pain, nerve pain, and other common types of pain. This innovative patch targets and treats the underlying inflammation that causes pain to help eliminate the root cause of pain, leading to more effective and sustainable pain relief. The Gluco Vitality Patch assists individuals with diabetes in stabilizing their blood sugar levels while promoting vascular health to provide a comprehensive approach to diabetes care. By promoting vascular health, the GlucoVitaPatch aims to improve circulation and support the prevention and treatment of vascular diseases commonly associated with diabetes. MEB Puri-Mega “Potent mineral concentrate with exceptional health benefits. Offers unparalleled support for overall well-being, including asthma, immune deficiency, rhinitis, diabetes and more.” Usage: Puri-Mega is a potent mineral concentrate enriched with various health benefits. Extracted from beneficial minerals known for their exceptional absorbability in the human body, this health blend offers unparalleled support for overall well-being. The natural healing and preventive properties of Puriton Mineral, a 100% pure mineral extract sourced from nature offer exceptional effectiveness in conditions such as asthma, immune deficiency, stomach disease, rhinitis, and diabetes. MEB Puri-Vega is potent mineral concentrate with exceptional health benefits. Offers unparalleled support for overall well-being, including asthma, immune deficiency, rhinitis, diabetes and more.” Usage: Puri-Vega is a potent mineral concentrate enriched with various health benefits. The natural healing and preventive properties of Puriton Mineral, a 100% pure mineral extract sourced from nature provides excellent effects in conditions related to Inflammation-Related Issues that can lead to many other sickness, Internal Diseases, and Ulcers that can lead to tumors. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection is indicated for: • Prevention of eclampsia in patients with preeclampsia • Treatment of seizures and prevention of recurrent seizures in patients with eclampsia Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection is indicated for ( 1 ): • Prevention of eclampsia in patients with preeclampsia ( 1 ) • Treatment of seizures and prevention of recurrent seizures in patients with eclampsia ( 1 ) Uses for relief of occasional constipation (irregularity) this product generally produces bowel movement in 1/2 to 6 hours 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection is indicated for: • Prevention of eclampsia in patients with preeclampsia • Treatment of seizures and prevention of recurrent seizures in patients with eclampsia Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection is indicated for (1) : • Prevention of eclampsia in patients with preeclampsia (1) • Treatment of seizures and prevention of recurrent seizures in patients with eclampsia (1) Uses For relief of occasional constipation (irregularity). This product generally produces bowel movement in ½ to 6 hours. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Magnesium Sulfate in Water for Injection is indicated for the prevention and control of seizures in preeclampsia and eclampsia, respectively. When used judiciously it effectively prevents and controls the convulsions of eclampsia without producing deleterious depression of the central nervous system of the mother or infant. However, other effective drugs are available for this purpose.
Dosage: MEB Painguard Patch Direction With clean hands, peel off the clear cover attached to the patch. Apply the patch carefully onto the area where you are experiencing pain. Fold the patch using your thumb and index finger, then peel off the protective tape from the top and bottom surfaces. After attaching the patch, press firmly on it with your fingers around 10 times to ensure that the needles penetrate the skin for optimal effectiveness. Leave the patch on for a minimum of 8 hours without removing. If pain relief is achieved even after a minimum of 8 hours with the patch on, you may continue to wear it. If the pain returns after 8 hours, apply a new patch following the same method. MEB Gluco-Vitality Patch Direction Use 2 patch at a time With clean hands, peel off the clear cover attached to the patch. Apply the patches just below the area of your left and right ears. Align the adhesive side of the patch with the backline of your ear. Before applying the patch, measure your blood sugar level. After a minimum of 8 hours with the patch on, measure your blood sugar level again. Take 30ml once daily in the morning on an empty stomach. For effective absorption, do not swallow immediately; hold under the tongue for 2-3 minutes before swallowing. It can also be consumed by mixing 1:1 with water, as needed. Usage as an Additive for Herbal Medicine: Mix 30 ml or 50 ml with medication as an additive when boiling. Removes toxins from the medication. Aids in nanonization, enabling better absorption of medicinal ingredients. Provides concentrated extraction without the need for re-boiling. Preserves the minerals without any loss or change in properties. For oral inflammation: Gargle with Puri-Mega 10 ml for 10 minutes or more, three times a day, to help with oral inflammation caused by weakened immunity. Direction Take 30ml once daily in the morning on an empty stomach. For oral inflammation: Gargle with Puri-Vega 10 ml for 10 minutes or more, three times a day, to help with oral inflammation caused by weakened immunity. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer via intravenous infusion pump ( 2.1 ) • Recommended loading dosage is 4 to 6 grams over 15 minutes followed by a recommended maintenance dosage of 1 to 2 grams every hour; maximum recommended dosage is 30 to 40 grams over 24 hours ( 2.2 ) • Obtain serum magnesium concentrations and assess clinical status to adjust the dose ( 2.2 ) • Administration beyond 5 to 7 days is not recommended ( 2.2 , 5.1 ) • In patients with severe renal impairment and/or urine output less than 0.5 mL/kg/hour, administer a 4 gram loading dose followed by a maintenance dosage of 1 gram every hour; do not exceed the maximum recommended dosage of 20 grams over 48 hours ( 2.3 ) • Do not administer Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection with incompatible drugs through the same intravenous line, specifically with salicylates and alkali carbonates ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection is: • A clear solution. Visually inspect Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. Do not administer unless solution is clear and colorless to slightly yellow. • For intravenous use only • Administered via intravenous infusion pump Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection does not require dilution prior to intravenous administration. After removing the overwrap, check for minute leaks by squeezing the container fully. Do not administer Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection if there is a leak or there is greater than 2 mL of water in the overwrap [see Description (11) ]. Do not administer Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection with incompatible drugs through the same intravenous line [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . Do not use Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection in series connections. 2.2 Recommended Dosage • The recommended loading dosage of Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection in patients with eclampsia or preeclampsia is 4 to 6 grams over 15 minutes followed by a recommended maintenance dosage of 1 to 2 grams every hour. • Obtain serum magnesium concentrations and assess clinical status to adjust the dosage. • In patients with eclampsia, consider targeting the maintenance dosage to achieve serum magnesium concentrations of 3 to 6 mg per 100 mL (2.5 to 5 mEq per liter). For patients with recurrent eclampsia, consider giving an additional 2 gram intravenous bolus. • For patients with eclampsia, therapy should continue until seizures cease. • The maximum recommended dosage is 30 to 40 grams of magnesium sulfate over 24 hours. • Administration of Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection beyond 5 to 7 days is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 2.3 Dosage in Patients with Severe Renal Impairment and/or Oliguria • In patients with severe renal impairment and/or a urine output less than 0.5 mL/kg/hour, initiate Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection with a 4 gram loading dose followed by a maintenance dosage of 1 gram every hour. • Titrate the magnesium sulfate maintenance dosage to maintain concentrations in the target range through frequent monitoring of magnesium concentrations and observation for clinical signs of magnesium toxicity (e.g., facial edema, diminished strength of deep tendon reflexes, respiratory depression). A lower maintenance dosage requirement is likely in these patients. • Do not exceed the maximum recommended dosage of 20 grams of Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection over 48 hours. 2.4 Drug Incompatibilities Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection is not compatible with administration of a variety of solutions and forms precipitates of magnesium salts. Before using Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection with another parenteral product, investigate potential incompatibilities. Incompatible products that should not be coadministered include salicylates and alkali carbonates. Directions do not exceed recommended daily dosage drink a full glass (8 ounces) of liquid with each dose may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses dissolve the dose in 8 ounces of water. Lemon juice may be added to improve the taste. adults and children 12 years and over - 2 to 6 level teaspoons (10 to 30 grams) daily children 6 to under 12 years - 1 to 2 level teaspoons (5 to 10 grams) daily children under 6 years - consult a doctor 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer via intravenous infusion pump (2.1) • Recommended loading dosage is 4 to 6 grams over 15 minutes followed by a recommended maintenance dosage of 1 to 2 grams every hour; maximum recommended dosage is 30 to 40 grams over 24 hours (2.2) • Obtain serum magnesium concentrations and assess clinical status to adjust the dose (2.2) • Administration beyond 5 to 7 days is not recommended (2.2 , 5.1) • In patients with severe renal impairment and/or urine output less than 0.5 mL/kg/hour, administer a 4 gram loading dose followed by a maintenance dosage of 1 gram every hour; do not exceed the maximum recommended dosage of 20 grams over 48 hours (2.3) • Do not administer Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection with incompatible drugs through the same intravenous line, specifically with salicylates and alkali carbonates (2.4) 2.1 Important Administration Instructions Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection is: • A clear solution. Do not administer Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection if there is a leak or there is greater than 2 mL of water in the overwrap [see Description (11)]. Do not administer Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection with incompatible drugs through the same intravenous line [see Dosage and Administration (2.4)]. • Administration of Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection beyond 5 to 7 days is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . Directions tbsp = tablespoon drink a full glass (8 ounces) of liquid with each dose. The dose may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses. do not exceed maximum daily dosage, unless directed by a doctor adults and children 12 years of age and over 10 (3/4 tbsp.) to 30 grams (2 ½ tbsps.) children 6 to under 12 years of age 5 (½ tbsp.) to 10 grams (3/4 tbsp.) children under 6 years of age consult a doctor Lemon juice may be added to improve the taste adults and children 12 years and over - 2 to 6 level teaspoons (10 to 30 grams) daily children 6 to under 12 years - 1 to 2 level teaspoons (5 to 10 grams) daily children under 6 years - consult a doctor DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Magnesium Sulfate in Water for Injection is intended for intravenous use only. For the management of pre-eclampsia or eclampsia, intravenous infusions of dilute solutions of magnesium (1% to 8%) are often given in combination with intramuscular injections of 50% Magnesium Sulfate Injection, USP. Therefore, in the clinical conditions cited below, both forms of therapy are noted, as appropriate. Continuous maternal administration of magnesium sulfate in pregnancy beyond 5-7 days can cause fetal abnormalities. In Eclampsia In severe pre-eclampsia or eclampsia, the total initial dose is 10 to 14 g of magnesium sulfate. To initiate therapy, 4 g of Magnesium Sulfate in Water for Injection may be administered intravenously. The rate of I.V. infusion should generally not exceed 150 mg/minute, or 3.75 mL of a 4% concentration (or its equivalent) per minute, except in severe eclampsia with seizures. Simultaneously, 4 to 5 g (32.5 to 40.6 mEq) of magnesium sulfate may be administered intramuscularly into each buttock using undiluted 50% Magnesium Sulfate Injection, USP. After the initial I.V. dose, some clinicians administer 1 to 2 g/hour by constant I.V. infusion. Subsequent intramuscular doses of 4 to 5 g of magnesium sulfate may be injected into alternate buttocks every four hours, depending on the continuing presence of the patellar reflex, adequate respiratory function, and absence of signs of magnesium toxicity. Therapy should continue until paroxysms cease. A serum magnesium level of 6 mg/100 mL is considered optimal for control of seizures. A total daily (24 hr) dose of 30 to 40 g magnesium sulfate should not be exceeded. In the presence of severe renal insufficiency, frequent serum magnesium concentrations must be obtained and the maximum dosage of magnesium sulfate is 20 g per 48 hours. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Do not administer unless solution is clear. Discard unused portion.
Warnings: Do not Use *If the needles inside the patch do not cause a tingling sensation, do not use it and replace it with a new patch. *If headaches, dizziness, or any discomfort persist for more than 5 minutes, discontinue use. Consult a physician if: *Symptoms persist for more than 7 days or worsen. When using this product: *Due to its sensitivity to moisture, do not store the patch in the refrigerator, and it should be used immediately after opening. Keep out of reach of Children Do not Use Individuals with specific sensitivities to ingredients or allergies should check the list of ingredients before consumption. If your symptoms do not improve and worsen even after 7 days, discontinue use and consult a doctor for further advice. Consult a physician: If pregnant, breastfeeding, or undergoing treatment for any medical condition, please consult a physician before taking it. Individuals with specific sensitivities to ingredients or allergies should check the list of ingredients before consumption. Warnings for this product Warnings Do not use laxative products for more than 1 week unless directed Ask a doctor before use if you have abdominal pain, nausea, or vomiting are present noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks kidney disease a magnesium-restricted diet Stop use and ask a doctor if rectal bleeding occurs you fail to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative. This may indicate a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding ask a health professional before use. Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. WARNINGS FETAL HARM: Continuous administration of magnesium sulfate beyond 5-7 days to pregnant women can lead to hypocalcemia and bone abnormalities in the developing fetus. These bone abnormalities include skeletal demineralization and osteopenia. In addition, cases of neonatal fracture have been reported. The shortest duration of treatment that can lead to fetal harm is not known. Magnesium sulfate should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed. If magnesium sulfate is given for treatment of preterm labor, the woman should be informed that the efficacy and safety of such use have not been established and that use of magnesium sulfate beyond 5-7 days may cause fetal abnormalities. Parenteral use in the presence of renal insufficiency may lead to magnesium intoxication.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection is contraindicated in patients: • with heart block or myocardial damage • in diabetic coma • with myasthenia gravis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] • Heart block or myocardial damage ( 4 ) • Diabetic coma ( 4 ) • Myasthenia gravis ( 4 , 5.6 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection is contraindicated in patients: • with heart block or myocardial damage • in diabetic coma • with myasthenia gravis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] • Heart block or myocardial damage (4) • Diabetic coma (4) • Myasthenia gravis (4, 5.6) CONTRAINDICATIONS Intravenous magnesium should not be given to mothers with toxemia of pregnancy during the two hours preceding delivery.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 1 presents the potential clinical impact of medications that may be commonly administered concomitantly with Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection in the clinical setting. Table 1: Potential Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection For drug incompatibility information [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] . Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Clinical Impact: • Potentiation and prolongation of neuromuscular blockade is possible with the concomitant use of magnesium sulfate and neuromuscular blocking agents [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . • The underlying mechanism of this interaction may involve suppression of peripheral neuromuscular function by decreasing acetylcholine release, reduction of endplate sensitivity, and decreased muscle fiber excitability with magnesium sulfate therapy. Intervention: • Monitor respiration and the depth of neuromuscular blockade frequently (e.g., train-of-four monitoring) when a neuromuscular blocking agent is used concomitantly with Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection. • Adjust the dosage of the neuromuscular blocking agent accordingly to maintain the desired level of musculoskeletal activity. The amount of reversal agent(s) required to achieve adequate reversal of the neuromuscular blocking agent(s) may also be increased. Examples: • Depolarizing neuromuscular blockers: succinylcholine • Non-depolarizing neuromuscular blockers: atracurium, cisatracurium, pancuronium, rocuronium, vecuronium Narcotics and/or Propofol Clinical Impact: • Potentiation and prolongation of analgesia and CNS depression is possible with the concomitant use of Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection with narcotics and/or propofol. The potential for magnesium sulfate to affect other CNS depressants is unknown [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . • The underlying mechanism of this interaction may involve antagonism of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) by magnesium sulfate therapy. Intervention: • Monitor the depth of CNS depression frequently using a reliable instrument. • Adjust the narcotic and/or propofol dosage accordingly to maintain the desired level of analgesia and sedation. Examples: • Narcotics and propofol Dihydropyridine Calcium Channel Blockers Clinical Impact: • An exaggerated hypotensive response is possible with the concomitant use of Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection with dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers. The potential for magnesium sulfate to affect other calcium channel blockers (e.g., diltiazem and verapamil) is unknown [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . Intervention: • Monitor vital signs (heart rate, blood pressure, respiration) frequently. • Supportive care and/or discontinuation of the calcium channel blocker may be required. Examples: • Amlodipine, clevidipine, felodipine, isradipine, nicardipine, nifedipine, nimodipine, and nisoldipine Drugs that May Induce Magnesium Loss Clinical Impact: • Reduced magnesium concentrations may impact efficacy Intervention: • Monitor magnesium concentrations frequently and adjust the Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection dosage to maintain concentrations in the target range [see Dosage and Administration (2) ] . Examples: • Alcohol, aminoglycosides, amphotericin B, cisplatin, cyclosporine, digitalis, loop diuretics, thiazide diuretics • Neuromuscular blocking agents : Potentiation and prolongation of neuromuscular blockade is possible with the concomitant use of Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection ( 7 ) • Narcotics and/or propofol : Potentiation and prolongation of analgesia and CNS depression is possible with the concomitant use of Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection ( 7 ) • Dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers : An exaggerated hypotensive response is possible with the concomitant use of Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection ( 7 ) • Drugs that may induce magnesium loss with concomitant use of Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection : Alcohol, aminoglycosides, amphotericin B, cisplatin, cyclosporine, digitalis, loop diuretics, and thiazide diuretics ( 7 ) Table 1 : Potential Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection* Neuromuscular Blocking Agents Clinical Impact: • Potentiation and prolongation of neuromuscular blockade is possible with the concomitant use of magnesium sulfate and neuromuscular blocking agents [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)] . The potential for magnesium sulfate to affect other CNS depressants is unknown [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)] . The potential for magnesium sulfate to affect other calcium channel blockers (e.g., diltiazem and verapamil) is unknown [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)] . Examples: • Amlodipine, clevidipine, felodipine, isradipine, nicardipine, nifedipine, nimodipine, and nisoldipine Drugs that May Induce Magnesium Loss Clinical Impact: • Reduced magnesium concentrations may impact efficacy Intervention: • Monitor magnesium concentrations frequently and adjust the Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection dosage to maintain concentrations in the target range [see Dosage and Administration (2)] . Examples: • Alcohol, aminoglycosides, amphotericin B, cisplatin, cyclosporine, digitalis, loop diuretics, thiazide diuretics *For drug incompatibility information [see Dosage and Administration (2.4)] . • Neuromuscular blocking agents : Potentiation and prolongation of neuromuscular blockade is possible with the concomitant use of Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection (7) • Narcotics and/or propofol : Potentiation and prolongation of analgesia and CNS depression is possible with the concomitant use of Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection (7) • Dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers : An exaggerated hypotensive response is possible with the concomitant use of Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection (7) • Drugs that may induce magnesium loss with concomitant use of Magnesium Sulfate in 5% Dextrose Injection : Alcohol, aminoglycosides, amphotericin B, cisplatin, cyclosporine, digitalis, loop diuretics, and thiazide diuretics (7)

=== NICARDIPINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE I. Stable Angina Nicardipine hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the management of patients with chronic stable angina (effort-associated angina). Nicardipine hydrochloride capsules may be used alone or in combination with beta-blockers. II. Hypertension Nicardipine hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the treatment of hypertension. Nicardipine hydrochloride capsules may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive drugs. In administering nicardipine hydrochloride it is important to be aware of the relatively large peak to trough differences in blood pressure effect (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nicardipine hydrochloride injection is a calcium channel blocker indicated for the short-term treatment of hypertension when oral therapy is not feasible. 1.1 Hypertension Nicardipine hydrochloride injection is indicated for the short-term treatment of hypertension when oral therapy is not feasible or desirable. For prolonged control of blood pressure, transfer patients to oral medication as soon as their clinical condition permits [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nicardipine hydrochloride injection, USP is a calcium channel blocker indicated for the short-term treatment of hypertension when oral therapy is not feasible. 1.1 Hypertension Nicardipine hydrochloride injection, USP is indicated for the short-term treatment of hypertension when oral therapy is not feasible or desirable. 1. INDICATIONS AND USAGE niCARdipine hydrochloride injection is a calcium channel blocker indicated for the short-term treatment of hypertension when oral therapy is not feasible. ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Hypertension niCARdipine Hydrochloride Injection, USP is indicated for the short-term treatment of hypertension when oral therapy is not feasible or not desirable. For prolonged control of blood pressure, transfer patients to oral medication as soon as their clinical condition permits [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )] . ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Hypertension Nicardipine Hydrochloride Injection is indicated for the short-term treatment of hypertension when oral therapy is not feasible or not desirable. For prolonged control of blood pressure, transfer patients to oral medication as soon as their clinical condition permits [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] . In administering nicardipine it is important to be aware of the relatively large peak to trough differences in blood pressure effect (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE 1.1 Hypertension Nicardipine hydrochloride injection is indicated for the short-term treatment of hypertension when oral therapy is not feasible or desirable. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE • CARDENE I.V. is a calcium channel blocker indicated for the short-term treatment of hypertension when oral therapy is not feasible. ( 1.1 ) 1.1 Hypertension CARDENE I.V. (nicardipine hydrochloride) is indicated for the short-term treatment of hypertension when oral therapy is not feasible or not desirable. For prolonged control of blood pressure, transfer patients to oral medication as soon as their clinical condition permits [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nicardipine hydrochloride in 0.9% sodium chloride injection is a calcium channel blocker indicated for the short-term treatment of hypertension when oral therapy is not feasible. 1.1 Hypertension Nicardipine hydrochloride in 0.9% sodium chloride injection is indicated for the short-term treatment of hypertension when oral therapy is not feasible or desirable. For prolonged control of blood pressure, transfer patients to oral medication as soon as their clinical condition permits [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )] .
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Angina The dose should be individually titrated for each patient beginning with 20 mg three times daily. Doses in the range of 20 to 40 mg three times a day have been shown to be effective. At least 3 days should be allowed before increasing the nicardipine hydrochloride capsuels dose to ensure achievement of steady-state plasma drug concentrations. Concomitant Use With Other Antianginal Agents Sublingual NTG may be taken as required to abort acute anginal attacks during nicardipine hydrochloride capsules therapy. Prophylactic Nitrate Therapy: nicardipine hydrochloride capsules may be safely coadministered with short- and long-acting nitrates. Beta-blockers : Nicardipine hydrochloride capsules may be safely coadministered with beta-blockers (see Drug Interactions ). Hypertension The dose of nicardipine hydrochloride capsules should be individually adjusted according to the blood pressure response beginning with 20 mg three times daily. The effective doses in clinical trials have ranged from 20 mg to 40 mg three times daily. The maximum blood pressure lowering effect occurs approximately 1 to 2 hours after dosing. To assess the adequacy of blood pressure response, the blood pressure should be measured at trough (8 hours after dosing). Because of the prominent peak effects of nicardipine, blood pressure should be measured 1 to 2 hours after dosing, particularly during initiation of therapy (see PRECAUTIONS : Blood Pressure , INDICATIONS AND USAGE , CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Effects in Hypertension ). At least 3 days should be allowed before increasing the nicardipine hydrochloride capsules dose to ensure achievement of steady-state plasma drug concentrations. Concomitant Use With Other Antihypertensive Agents 1. Diuretics: nicardipine hydrochloride capsules may be safety coadministered with thiazide diuretics. 2. Beta-blockers: nicardipine hydrochloride capsules may be safely coadministered with beta-blocker (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Special Patient Population Renal Insufficiency Although there is no evidence that nicardipine hydrochloride capsules impair renal function, careful dose titration beginning with 20 mg tid is advised (see PRECAUTIONS ). Hepatic Insufficiency Nicardipine hydrochloride capsules should be administered cautiously in patients with severely impaired hepatic function. A suggested starting dose of 20 mg twice a day is advised with individual titration based on clinical findings maintaining the twice a day schedule (see PRECAUTIONS ). Congestive Heart Failure Caution is advised when titrating nicardipine hydrochloride capsules dosage in patients with congestive heart failure (see WARNINGS ). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Individualize dosage based upon the severity of hypertension and response of the patient during dosing ( 2.1 ). Single dose vials must be diluted before use ( 2.2 ). When substituting for oral nicardipine therapy, use the intravenous infusion rate as follows ( 2.3 ): Oral Nicardipine Dose Equivalent IV Infusion Rate 20 mg q8h 0.5 mg/hr 30 mg q8h 1.2 mg/hr 40 mg q8h 2.2 mg/hr In a drug-free patient, initiate therapy at 5 mg/hr. Increase the infusion rate by 2.5 mg/hr to a maximum of 15 mg/hr until desired blood pressure reduction is achieved. For a gradual blood pressure reduction the rate can be increased every 15 minutes, for a rapid reduction, every 5 minutes ( 2.4 ). If hypotension or tachycardia ensues, discontinue the infusion. After stabilized, patient can be restarted at low doses such as 3 to 5 mg/hr ( 2.5 ). 2.1 General Information Individualize dosing based on the severity of hypertension and the response of the patient during dosing. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate both during and after the infusion to avoid tachycardia or too rapid or excessive reduction in either systolic or diastolic blood pressure. Administer Nicardipine Hydrochloride by slow continuous infusion by a central line or through a large peripheral vein. Change the infusion site every 12 hours if administered via peripheral vein [see Intravenous Infusion Site ( 5.7 )] . ​2.2 Inspection and Preparation Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Do not use the solution if particulate matter, precipitate, or crystallization is present, or if the container appears damaged. Single Dose Vials Dilution Single dose vials must be diluted before infusion. Each vial (25 mg) must be diluted with 240 mL of compatible intravenous fluid (see below), resulting in 250 mL of solution at a concentration of 0.1 mg/mL. Compatability Nicardipine hydrochloride injection has been found compatible and stable in polyvinyl chloride containers for 24 hours at controlled room temperature with: Dextrose (5%) Injection, USP Dextrose (5%) and Sodium Chloride (0.45%) Injection, USP Dextrose (5%) and Sodium Chloride (0.9%) Injection, USP Dextrose (5%) with 40 mEq Potassium, USP Sodium Chloride (0.45%) Injection, USP Sodium Chloride (0.9%) Injection, USP Nicardipine hydrochloride is not compatible with Sodium Bicarbonate (5%) Injection, USP or Lactated Ringer’s Injection, USP. Flexible Containers Dilution is not required for Nicardipine Hydrochloride in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. Check the container for minute leaks prior to use by squeezing the bag firmly; ensure that the seal is intact. If leaks are found, discard solution as sterility may be impaired. Do not combine Nicardipine Hydrochloride in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection with any product in the same intravenous line or premixed container. Do not add supplementary medication to the bag. Protect from light until ready to use. Do not use plastic containers in series connections. Such use could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary container before the administration of the fluid from the secondary container is complete. Preparation for administration 1. Suspend container from eyelet support. Remove protector from outlet port at bottom of container. 3. Attach administration set. Refer to complete directions accompanying set. 2.3 Dosage as a Substitute for Oral Nicardipine Therapy The intravenous infusion rate required to produce an average plasma concentration equivalent to a given oral dose at steady state is shown in the following table: Oral Nicardipine Dose Equivalent Intravenous Infusion Rate 20 mg q8h 0.5 mg/hr 30 mg q8h 1.2 mg/hr 40 mg q8h 2.2 mg/hr 2.4 Dosage for Initiation of Therapy in a Drug-Free Patient The time course of blood pressure decrease is dependent on the initial rate of infusion and the frequency of dosage adjustment. Nicardipine hydrochloride injection is administered by slow continuous infusion at a concentration of 0.1 mg/mL. With constant infusion, blood pressure begins to fall within minutes. It reaches about 50% of its ultimate decrease in about 45 minutes. When treating acute hypertensive episodes in patients with chronic hypertension, discontinuation of infusion is followed by a 50% offset of action in 30 minutes ± 7 minutes but plasma levels of drug and gradually decreasing antihypertensive effects exist for many hours. Titration For a gradual reduction in blood pressure, initiate therapy at a rate of 5 mg/hr. If desired blood pressure reduction is not achieved at this dose, increase the infusion rate by 2.5 mg/hr every 15 minutes up to a maximum of 15 mg/hr, until desired blood pressure reduction is achieved. For more rapid blood pressure reduction, titrate every 5 minutes. Maintenance Adjust the rate of infusion as needed to maintain desired response. 2.5 Conditions Requiring Infusion Adjustment Hypotension or Tachycardia: In case of hypotension or tachycardia, discontinue infusion. When blood pressure and heart rate stabilize, restart infusion at low doses such as 30 mL/hr to 50 mL/hr (3 mg/hr to 5 mg/hr) and titrate to maintain desired blood pressure. Infusion Site Changes: Change infusion site every 12 hours if administered via peripheral vein. Impaired Cardiac, Hepatic, or Renal Function: Monitor closely when titrating nicardipine hydrochloride injection in patients with congestive heart failure or impaired hepatic or renal function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4 , 5.5 and 5.6) ]. 2.6 Transfer to Oral Antihypertensive Agents If treatment includes transfer to an oral antihypertensive agent other than nicardipine capsules, initiate oral therapy upon discontinuation of nicardipine hydrochloride injection. When switching to a TID regimen of nicardipine capsules, administer the first dose 1 hour prior to discontinuation of the infusion. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Individualize dosage based upon the severity of hypertension and response of the patient during dosing (2.1 ). When substituting for oral nicardipine therapy, use the intravenous infusion rate as follows ( 2.3 ): Oral Nicardipine Dose Equivalent Intravenous Infusion Rate 20 mg every 8 hours 0.5 mg/hr 30 mg every 8 hours 1.2 mg/hr 40 mg every 8 hours 2.2 mg/hr In a drug-free patient, initiate therapy at 5 mg/hr. After stabilized, patient can be restarted at low doses such as 3 mg/hr to 5 mg/hr ( 2.5 ). Change the infusion site every 12 hours if administered via peripheral vein [see Intravenous Infusion Site (5.7) ] . 2.2 Inspection and Preparation Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Single Dose Containers Dilution is not required for Nicardipine Hydrochloride in 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. Discard Unused Portion Preparation for administration 1. 2.3 Dosage as a Substitute for Oral Nicardipine Therapy The intravenous infusion rate required to produce an average plasma concentration equivalent to a given oral dose at steady state is shown in the following table: Oral Nicardipine Dose Equivalent Intravenous Infusion Rate 20 mg every 8 hours 0.5 mg/hr 30 mg every 8 hours 1.2 mg/hr 40 mg every 8 hours 2.2 mg/hr 2.4 Dosage for Initiation of Therapy in a Drug-Free Patient The time course of blood pressure decrease is dependent on the initial rate of infusion and the frequency of dosage adjustment. When treating acute hypertensive episodes in patients with chronic hypertension, discontinuation of infusion is followed by a 50% offset of action in 30 minutes plus/minus 7 minutes but plasma levels of drug and gradually decreasing antihypertensive effects exist for many hours. When switching to a three times a day regimen of nicardipine capsules, administer the first dose 1 hour prior to discontinuation of the infusion. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For Intravenous Use. ( 2.1 ) Dilution is required. ( 2.3 ) When substituting for oral nicardipine therapy, use the intravenous infusion rate from the table below ( 2.1 ): Oral Nicardipine Dose Equivalent Intravenous Infusion Rate (0.1 mg/mL) 20 mg q8h 0.5 mg/hr = 5 mL/hr 30 mg q8h 1.2 mg/hr = 12 mL/hr 40 mg q8h 2.2 mg/hr = 22 mL/hr In a patient not receiving oral nicardipine, initiate therapy at 50 mL/hr (5 mg/hr) 0.1 mg/mL solution. Increase the infusion rate by 25 mL/hr every 5 minutes (for rapid titration) to 15 minutes (for gradual titration) up to a maximum of 150 mL/hr until desired blood pressure reduction is achieved. ( 2.1 ) If unacceptable hypotension or tachycardia occurs, discontinue the infusion. When blood pressure and heart rate stabilize, restart the infusion at low doses such as 30 to 50 mL/hr. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosing niCARdipine Hydrochloride Injection, USP is intended for intravenous use. Vial must be diluted 0.1 mg/mL before use [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )]. Titrate dose to achieve the desired blood pressure reduction. Individualize dosage depending on the blood pressure to be obtained and the response of the patient. Dosage as a Substitute for Oral Nicardipine Therapy The intravenous infusion rate required to produce an average plasma concentration equivalent to a given oral dose at steady state is shown in the following table: Table 1: Oral Equivalent Dosage Oral Nicardipine Dose Equivalent Intravenous Infusion Rate (0.1 mg/mL) 20 mg q8h 0.5 mg/hr = 5 mL/hr 30 mg q8h 1.2 mg/hr = 12 mL/hr 40 mg q8h 2.2 mg/hr = 22 mL/hr Dosage for Initiation of Therapy in a Patient Not Receiving Oral Nicardipine Initiate therapy at 50 mL/hr (5 mg/hr). If desired blood pressure reduction is not achieved at this dose, the infusion rate may be increased by 25 mL/hr (2.5 mg/hr) every 5 minutes (for rapid titration) to 15 minutes (for gradual titration) up to a maximum of 150 mL/hr (15 mg/hr), until desired blood pressure reduction is achieved. Following achievement of the blood pressure goal utilizing rapid titration, decrease the infusion rate to 30 mL/hr (3 mg/hr). Drug Discontinuation and Transition to an Oral Antihypertensive Agent Discontinuation of infusion is followed by a 50% offset of action in about 30 minutes. If treatment includes transfer to an oral antihypertensive agent other than oral nicardipine, initiate therapy upon discontinuation of nicardipine hydrochloride injection. If oral nicardipine is to be used, administer the first dose 1 hour prior to discontinuation of the infusion. Specific Populations Titrate nicardipine hydrochloride injection slowly in patients with heart failure or impaired hepatic or renal function [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 , 5.3 and 5.4 )] 2.2 Monitoring The time course of blood pressure decrease is dependent on the initial rate of infusion and the frequency of dosage adjustment. Monitor blood pressure and heart rate continually during infusion and avoid too rapid or excessive blood pressure drop during treatment. If there is concern of impending hypotension or tachycardia, the infusion should be discontinued. Then, when blood pressure has stabilized, restart infusion of nicardipine hydrochloride injection at low doses such as 30 to 50 mL/hr (3 to 5 mg/hr) and adjust to maintain desired blood pressure. 2.3 Instructions for Administration Administer nicardipine hydrochloride by a central line or through a large peripheral vein. Change the infusion site every 12 hours if administered via peripheral vein [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . Preparation for Administration Vials must be diluted before infusion. Inspection As with all parenteral drugs, nicardipine hydrochloride injection should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Nicardipine hydrochloride injection is normally clear, yellow in color. Dilution Nicardipine hydrochloride injection is administered by slow continuous infusion at a CONCENTRATION OF 0.1 MG/ML. Each vial (25 mg) should be diluted with 240 mL of compatible intravenous fluid (see below), resulting in 250 mL of solution at a concentration of 0.1 mg/mL. Nicardipine hydrochloride injection has been found to be compatible and stable in glass or polyvinyl chloride containers for 24 hours at controlled room temperature with: Dextrose (5%) Injection, USP Dextrose (5%) and Sodium Chloride (0.45%) Injection, USP Dextrose (5%) and Sodium Chloride (0.9%) Injection, USP Dextrose (5%) with 40 mEq Potassium, USP Sodium Chloride (0.45%) Injection, USP Sodium Chloride (0.9%) Injection, USP Nicardipine hydrochloride injection is NOT compatible with Sodium Bicarbonate (5%) Injection, USP or Lactated Ringer’s Injection, USP. The diluted solution is stable for 24 hours at room temperature. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For Intravenous Use. ( 2.3 ) When substituting for oral nicardipine therapy, use the intravenous infusion rate from the table below ( 2.1 ): Oral Nicardipine Dose Equivalent Intravenous Infusion Rate (0.1 mg per mL) 20 mg q8h 0.5 mg/hr=5 mL/hr 30 mg q8h 1.2 mg/hr=12 mL/hr 40 mg q8h 2.2 mg/hr=22 mL/hr In a patient not receiving oral nicardipine, initiate therapy at 5 mg/hr. Increase the infusion rate by 2.5 mg/hr every 5 minutes (for rapid titration) to 15 minutes (for gradual titration) up to a maximum of 15 mg/hr until desired blood pressure reduction is achieved. ( 2.1 ) Conversion Table (mg/hr) Equivalent Intravenous Infusion Rate (0.1 mg per mL) 5 mg/hr 50 mL/hr 2.5 mg/hr 25 mL/hr 15 mg/hr 150 mL/hr If unacceptable hypotension or tachycardia occurs, discontinue the infusion. When blood pressure and heart rate stabilize, restart the infusion at low doses such as 3-5 mg/hr. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosing Nicardipine hydrochloride injection is intended for intravenous use. Vial must be diluted to 0.1 mg per mL before use [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . Dosage as a Substitute for Oral Nicardipine Therapy The intravenous infusion rate required to produce an average plasma concentration equivalent to a given oral dose at steady state is shown in the following table : Oral Nicardipine Dose Equivalent lntravenous Infusion Rate (0.1 mg per mL) 20 mg q8h 0.5 mg/hr = 5 mL/hr 30 mg q8h 1.2 mg/hr = 12 mL/hr 40 mg q8h 2.2 mg/hr = 22 mL/hr Dosage for Initiation of Therapy in a Patient Not Receiving Oral Nicardipine Nicardipine Hydrochloride Injection 25 mg in 10 mL (2.5 mg per mL) Initiate therapy at 50 mL/hr (5 mg/hr). Special Populations Titrate nicardipine hydrochloride injection slowly in patients with heart failure or impaired hepatic or renal function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 )] . 2.2 Monitoring The time course of blood pressure decrease is dependent on the initial rate of infusion and the frequency of dosage adjustment. Then, when blood pressure has stabilized, infusion of nicardipine hydrochloride injection may be restarted at low doses such as 30-50 mL/hr (3 - 5 mg/hr) and adjusted to maintain desired blood pressure. 2.3 Instructions for Administration Administer nicardipine hydrochloride injection by a central line or through a large peripheral vein. Change the infusion site every 12 hours if administered via peripheral vein [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Nicardipine hydrochloride injection is available as a single-dose solution for intravenous administration. Vials must be diluted before infusion. Inspect nicardipine hydrochloride injection visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Nicardipine hydrochloride injection is normally yellow in color. Do not combine nicardipine hydrochloride injection with any product in the same intravenous line or premixed container. Preparation for administration Dilution Nicardipine hydrochloride injection is administered by slow continuous infusion at a CONCENTRATION OF 0.1 MG PER ML. Each vial (25 mg) should be diluted with 240 mL of compatible intravenous fluid (see below), resulting in 250 mL of solution at a concentration of 0.1 mg per mL. Concomitant Use with Other Antianginal Agents 1. Sublingual NTG may be taken as required to abort acute anginal attacks during nicardipine hydrochloride capsules therapy. Prophylactic Nitrate Therapy : Nicardipine hydrochloride capsules may be safely coadministered with short- and long-acting nitrates. Hypertension The dose of nicardipine hydrochloride should be individually adjusted according to the blood pressure response beginning with 20 mg three times daily. Because of the prominent peak effects of nicardipine, blood pressure should be measured 1 to 2 hours after dosing, particularly during initiation of therapy (see PRECAUTIONS : Blood Pressure , INDICATIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Effects in Hypertension ). At least 3 days should be allowed before increasing the nicardipine hydrochloride dose to ensure achievement of steady-state plasma drug concentrations. Diuretics : Nicardipine hydrochloride capsules may be safely coadministered with thiazide diuretics. Special Patient Populations Renal Insufficiency Although there is no evidence that nicardipine hydrochloride impairs renal function, careful dose titration beginning with 20 mg tid is advised (see PRECAUTIONS ). Hepatic Insufficiency Nicardipine hydrochloride should be administered cautiously in patients with severely impaired hepatic function. Congestive Heart Failure Caution is advised when titrating nicardipine hydrochloride dosage in patients with congestive heart failure (see WARNINGS ). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Individualize dosage based upon the severity of hypertension and response of the patient during dosing ( 2.1 ). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2.1 General Information Individualize dosing based on the severity of hypertension and the response of the patient during dosing. Discard unused portion. Impaired Cardiac, Hepatic, or Renal Function: Monitor closely when titrating nicardipine hydrochloride injection in patients with congestive heart failure or impaired hepatic or renal function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4 , 5.5 and 5.6 ) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For Intravenous Use. ( 2.1 ) • No further dilution is required. ( 2.3 ) • When substituting for oral nicardipine therapy, use the intravenous infusion rate from the table below ( 2.1 ): Oral CARDENE Dose Equivalent I.V. Infusion Rate (0.1 mg/mL) Equivalent I.V. Infusion Rate (0.2 mg/mL) 20 mg q8h 0.5 mg/hr = 5 mL/hr 0.5 mg/hr = 2.5 mL/hr 30 mg q8h 1.2 mg/hr = 12 mL/hr 1.2 mg/hr = 6 mL/hr 40 mg q8h 2.2 mg/hr = 22 mL/hr 2.2 mg/hr = 11 mL/hr • In a patient not receiving oral nicardipine, initiate therapy at 5 mg/hr. ( 2.1 ) Conversion Table (mg/hr) Equivalent I.V. Infusion Rate (0.2 mg/mL) 5 mg/hr 50 mL/hr 25 mL/hr 2.5 mg/hr 25 mL/hr 12.5 mL/hr 15 mg/hr 150 mL/hr 75 mL/hr • If unacceptable hypotension or tachycardia occurs, discontinue the infusion. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosing CARDENE I.V. is intended for intravenous use. Dosage as a Substitute for Oral Nicardipine Therapy The intravenous infusion rate required to produce an average plasma concentration equivalent to a given oral dose at steady state is shown in the following table: Oral CARDENE Dose Equivalent I.V. Infusion Rate 20 mg in 200 mL (0.1 mg/mL) Equivalent I.V. Infusion Rate 40 mg in 200 mL (0.2 mg/mL) 20 mg q8h 0.5 mg/hr = 5 mL/hr 0.5 mg/hr = 2.5 mL/hr 30 mg q8h 1.2 mg/hr = 12 mL/hr 1.2 mg/hr = 6 mL/hr 40 mg q8h 2.2 mg/hr = 22 mL/hr 2.2 mg/hr = 11 mL/hr Dosage for Initiation of Therapy in a Patient Not Receiving Oral Nicardipine CARDENE I.V. 20 mg in 200 mL (0.1 mg/mL): Initiate therapy at 50 mL/hr (5 mg/hr). CARDENE I.V. 40 mg in 200 mL (0.2 mg/mL): Initiate therapy at 25 mL/hr (5 mg/hr). If desired blood pressure reduction is not achieved at this dose, the infusion rate may be increased by 12.5 mL/hr (2.5 mg/hr) every 5 minutes (for rapid titration) to 15 minutes (for gradual titration) up to a maximum of 75 mL/hr (15 mg/hr), until desired blood pressure reduction is achieved. Following achievement of the blood pressure goal utilizing rapid titration, decrease the infusion rate to 15 mL/hr (3 mg/hr). If treatment includes transfer to an oral antihypertensive agent other than oral nicardipine, initiate therapy upon discontinuation of CARDENE I.V. Special Populations Titrate CARDENE I.V. slowly in patients with heart failure or impaired hepatic or renal function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2 , 5.3 and 5.4 )] 2.2 Monitoring The time course of blood pressure decrease is dependent on the initial rate of infusion and the frequency of dosage adjustment. Then, when blood pressure has stabilized, infusion of CARDENE I.V. may be restarted at low doses such as 30-50 mL/hr (3 - 5 mg/hr) for 20 mg in 200 mL or 15-25 mL/hr (3 - 5 mg/hr) for 40 mg in 200 mL and adjusted to maintain desired blood pressure. 2.3 Instructions for Administration Administer CARDENE I.V. by a central line or through a large peripheral vein. Change the infusion site every 12 hours if administered via peripheral vein [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. is available as a single-dose, ready-to-use, iso-osmotic solution for intravenous administration. No further dilution is required. Inspect CARDENE I.V. visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. is normally a clear, colorless to yellow solution. Do not combine CARDENE I.V. with any product in the same intravenous line or premixed container. Administer nicardipine hydrochloride in 0.9% sodium chloride injection by slow continuous infusion by a central line or through a large peripheral vein. Check the container for minute leaks prior to use; ensure that the seal is intact. Discard unused Portion Preparation for administration Suspend container from eyelet support. Nicardipine hydrochloride in 0.9% sodium chloride injection is administered by slow continuous infusion at a concentration of 0.1 mg/mL. Impaired Cardiac, Hepatic, or Renal Function: Monitor closely when titrating nicardipine hydrochloride in 0.9% sodium chloride injection in patients with congestive heart failure or impaired hepatic or renal function [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 , 5.5 and 5.6 )] . 2.6 Transfer to Oral Antihypertensive Agents If treatment includes transfer to an oral antihypertensive agent other than nicardipine capsules, initiate oral therapy upon discontinuation of nicardipine hydrochloride in 0.9% sodium chloride injection.
Warnings: WARNINGS Increased Angina About 7% of patients in short-term, placebo-controlled angina trials have developed increased frequency, duration or severity of angina on starting nicardipine hydrochloride capsules or at the time of dosage increases, compared with 4% of patients on placebo. Comparisons with beta-blockers also show a greater frequency of increased angina, 4% vs 1%. The mechanism of this effect has not been established (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Use in Patients With Congestive Heart Failure Although preliminary hemodynamic studies in patients with congestive heart failure have shown that nicardipine hydrochloride capsules reduced afterload without impairing myocardial contractility, it has a negative inotropic effect in vitro and in some patients. Caution should be exercised when using the drug in congestive heart failure patients, particularly in combination with a beta-blocker. Beta-Blocker Withdrawal Nicardipine hydrochloride capsules are not a beta-blocker and therefore gives no protection against the dangers of abrupt beta-blocker withdrawal; any such withdrawal should be by gradual reduction of the dose of beta-blocker, preferably over 8 to 10 days. WARNINGS Increased Angina About 7% of patients in short-term, placebo-controlled angina trials have developed increased frequency, duration or severity of angina on starting nicardipine hydrochloride or at the time of dosage increases, compared with 4% of patients on placebo. Use in Patients with Congestive Heart Failure Although preliminary hemodynamic studies in patients with congestive heart failure have shown that nicardipine hydrochloride reduced afterload without impairing myocardial contractility, it has a negative inotropic effect in vitro and in some patients. Beta-Blocker Withdrawal Nicardipine hydrochloride is not a beta-blocker and therefore gives no protection against the dangers of abrupt beta-blocker withdrawal; any such withdrawal should be by gradual reduction of the dose of beta-blocker, preferably over 8 to 10 days.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Nicardipine hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to the drug. Because part of the effect of nicardipine hydrochloride capsules are secondary to reduced afterload, the drug is also contraindicated in patients with advanced aortic stenosis. Reduction of diastolic pressure in these patients may worsen rather than improve myocardial oxygen balance. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not use in patients with advanced aortic stenosis ( 4.1 ). 4.1 Advanced Aortic Stenosis Do not use nicardipine in patients with advanced aortic stenosis because of the afterload reduction effect of nicardipine. 4. CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not use in patients with advanced aortic stenosis. ( 4.1 ). 4.1 Advanced Aortic Stenosis Nicardipine hydrochloride injection is contraindicated in patients with advanced aortic stenosis because part of the effect of nicardipine hydrochloride injection is secondary to reduced afterload. CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not use in patients with advanced aortic stenosis ( 4.1 ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS 4.1 Advanced Aortic Stenosis Do not use nicardipine in patients with advanced aortic stenosis because of the afterload reduction effect of nicardipine. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Do not use in patients with advanced aortic stenosis ( 4.1 ). 4.1 Advanced Aortic Stenosis CARDENE I.V. is contraindicated in patients with advanced aortic stenosis because part of the effect of CARDENE I.V. is secondary to reduced afterload.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Beta Blockers In controlled clinical studies, adrenergic beta-receptor blockers have been frequently administered concomitantly with nicardipine hydrochloride capsules. The combination is well tolerated. Cimetidine Cimetidine increases nicardipine hydrochloride capsules plasma levels. Patients receiving the two drugs concomitantly should be carefully monitored. Digoxin Some calcium blockers may increase the concentration of digitalis preparations in the blood. Nicardipine hydrochloride capsules usually do not alter the plasma levels of digoxin; however, serum digoxin levels should be evaluated after concomitant therapy with nicardipine hydrochloride capsules are initiated. Maalox ® Coadministration of Maalox TC had no effect on nicardipine hydrochloride capsules absorption. Fentanyl Anesthesia Severe hypotension has been reported during fentanyl anesthesia with concomitant use of a beta-blocker and a calcium channel blocker. Even though such interactions were not seen during clinical studies with nicardipine hydrochloride capsules, an increased volume of circulating fluids might be required if such an interaction were to occur. Cyclosporine Concomitant administration of oral or intravenous nicardipine and cyclosporine results in elevated plasma cyclosporine levels though nicardipine inhibition of hepatic microsomal enzymes, including CYP3A4. Plasma concentrations of cyclosporine should therefore be closely monitored, and its dosage reduced accordingly, in patients treated with nicardipine. Tacrolimus: Concomitant administration of oral or intravenous nicardipine and tacrolimus may result in elevated plasma tacrolimus levels through nicardipine inhibition of hepatic microsomal enzymes, including CYP3A4. Closely monitor plasma concentrations of tacrolimus during nicardipine administration, and adjust the dose of tacrolimus accordingly. When therapeutic concentrations of furosemide, propranolol, dipyridamole, warfarin, quinidine or naproxen were added to human plasma (in vitro), the plasma protein binding of nicardipine hydrochloride capsules were not altered. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Cimetidine increases nicardipine plasma levels ( 7.3 ). Nicardipine may increase cyclosporine and tacrolimus plasma levels. Frequent monitoring of trough blood levels of cyclosporine and tacrolimus is recommended when co-administering nicardipine. ( 7.5 , 7.6 ). 7.1 Antihypertensive Agents Since nicardipine hydrochloride injection may be administered to patients already being treated with other medications, including other antihypertensive agents, careful monitoring of these patients is necessary to detect and to treat promptly any undesired effects from concomitant administration. 7.2 Beta-Blockers In most patients, nicardipine hydrochloride injection can safely be used concomitantly with beta-blockers. However, monitor response carefully when combining nicardipine hydrochloride injection with a beta-blocker in the treatment of congestive heart failure patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . 7.3 Cimetidine Cimetidine has been shown to increase nicardipine plasma concentrations with oral nicardipine administration. Carefully monitor patients receiving the two drugs concomitantly. Data with other histamine-2 antagonists are not available. 7.4 Digoxin Studies have shown that oral nicardipine usually does not alter digoxin plasma concentrations. 7.5 Cyclosporine Concomitant administration of oral or intravenous nicardipine and cyclosporine results in elevated plasma cyclosporine levels through nicardipine inhibition of hepatic microsomal enzymes, including CYP3A4. Monitor closely plasma concentrations of cyclosporine during nicardipine hydrochloride injection administration, and adjust the dose of cyclosporine accordingly. 7.6 Tacrolimus Concomitant administration of intravenous nicardipine and tacrolimus may result in elevated plasma tacrolimus levels through nicardipine inhibition of hepatic microsomal enzymes, including CYP3A4. 7.7 In Vitro Interaction The plasma protein binding of nicardipine was not altered when therapeutic concentrations of furosemide, propranolol, dipyridamole, warfarin, quinidine, or naproxen were added to human plasma in vitro. 7. DRUG INTERACTIONS Cimetidine increases oral nicardipine plasma levels. ( 7.2 ) Oral or intravenous nicardipine may increase cyclosporine and tacrolimus plasma levels. Frequent monitoring of trough blood levels of cyclosporine and tacrolimus is recommended when co-administering nicardipine hydrochloride injection. ( 7.3 , 7.4 ) 7.1 Beta-Blockers In most patients, nicardipine hydrochloride injection can safely be used concomitantly with beta-blockers. However, titrate slowly when using nicardipine hydrochloride injection in combination with a beta-blocker in heart failure patients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. 7.2 Cimetidine Cimetidine has been shown to increase nicardipine plasma concentrations with oral nicardipine administration. Frequently monitor response in patients receiving both drugs. 7.3 Cyclosporine Concomitant administration of oral or intravenous nicardipine and cyclosporine results in elevated plasma cyclosporine levels through nicardipine inhibition of hepatic microsomal enzymes, including CYP3A4. Closely monitor plasma concentrations of cyclosporine during nicardipine hydrochloride injection administration, and reduce the dose of cyclosporine accordingly. 7.4 Tacrolimus Concomitant administration of intravenous nicardipine and tacrolimus may result in elevated plasma tacrolimus levels through nicardipine inhibition of hepatic microsomal enzymes, including CYP3A4. Closely monitor plasma concentrations of tacrolimus during nicardipine hydrochloride injection administration, and adjust the dose of tacrolimus accordingly. 7.5 In Vitro Interaction The plasma protein binding of nicardipine was not altered when therapeutic concentrations of furosemide, propranolol, dipyridamole, warfarin, quinidine, or naproxen were added to human plasma in vitro. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Cimetidine increases oral nicardipine plasma levels. ( 7.3, 7.4 ) 7.1 Beta-Blockers In most patients, nicardipine hydrochloride injection can safely be used concomitantly with beta blockers. However, titrate slowly when using nicardipine hydrochloride injection in combination with a beta-blocker in heart failure patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 7.5 In Vitro Interaction The plasma protein binding of nicardipine was not altered when therapeutic concentrations of furosemide, propranolol, dipyridamole, warfarin, quinidine, or naproxen were added to human plasma in vitro . Drug Interactions Beta-Blockers In controlled clinical studies, adrenergic beta-receptor blockers have been frequently administered concomitantly with nicardipine hydrochloride. Cimetidine Cimetidine increases nicardipine hydrochloride plasma levels. nicardipine hydrochloride usually does not alter the plasma levels of digoxin; however, serum digoxin levels should be evaluated after concomitant therapy with nicardipine hydrochloride is initiated. Maalox ® Coadministration of Maalox TC had no effect on nicardipine hydrochloride absorption. Even though such interactions were not seen during clinical studies with nicardipine hydrochloride, an increased volume of circulating fluids might be required if such an interaction were to occur. Cyclosporine Concomitant administration of oral or intravenous nicardipine and cyclosporine results in elevated plasma cyclosporine levels through nicardipine inhibition of hepatic microsomal enzymes, including CYP3A4. Tacrolimus Concomitant administration of oral or intravenous nicardipine and tacrolimus may result in elevated plasma tacrolimus levels through nicardipine inhibition of hepatic microsomal enzymes, including CYP3A4. When therapeutic concentrations of furosemide, propranolol, dipyridamole, warfarin, quinidine or naproxen were added to human plasma ( in vitro ), the plasma protein binding of nicardipine hydrochloride was not altered. DRUG INTERACTIONS Cimetidine increases nicardipine plasma levels ( 7.3 ). 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Antihypertensive Agents Since nicardipine hydrochloride injection may be administered to patients already being treated with other medications, including other antihypertensive agents, careful monitoring of these patients is necessary to detect and to treat promptly any undesired effects from concomitant administration. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Cimetidine increases oral nicardipine plasma levels. ( 7.2 ) • Oral or intravenous nicardipine may increase cyclosporine and tacrolimus plasma levels. Frequent monitoring of trough blood levels of cyclosporine and tacrolimus is recommended when co-administering CARDENE I.V. ( 7.3 , 7.4 ) 7.1 Beta-Blockers In most patients, CARDENE I.V. can safely be used concomitantly with beta blockers. However, titrate slowly when using CARDENE I.V. in combination with a beta-blocker in heart failure patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Closely monitor plasma concentrations of cyclosporine during CARDENE I.V. administration, and reduce the dose of cyclosporine accordingly. Closely monitor plasma concentrations of tacrolimus during CARDENE I.V. administration, and adjust the dose of tacrolimus accordingly. However, monitor response carefully when combining nicardipine hydrochloride injection with a beta-blocker in the treatment of congestive heart failure patients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. 7.7 In Vitro Interaction The plasma protein binding of nicardipine was not altered when therapeutic concentrations of furosemide, propranolol, dipyridamole, warfarin, quinidine, or naproxen were added to human plasma in vitro .

=== OLOPATADINE HYDROCHLORIDE OPHTHALMIC ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antihistamine and Redness Reliever Active Ingredient Purpose Olopatadine (0.1%). (equivalent to olopatadine hydrochloride 0.111%) Antihistamine and redness reliever PURPOSE Antihistamine
Indications: Uses temporarily relieves itchy and red eyes due to pollen, ragweed, grass, animal hair and dander USE temporarily relieves itchy eyes due to pollen, ragweed, grass, animal hair and dander Uses temporarily relieves itchy eyes due to pollen, ragweed, grass, animal hair and dander
Dosage: Directions adults and children 2 years of age and older: put 1 drop in the affected eye(s) twice daily, every 6 to 8 hours, no more than twice per day if using other ophthalmic products while using this product, wait at least 5 minutes between each product replace cap after each use children under 2 years of age: consult a doctor DIRECTIONS • adults and children 2 years of age and older: • put 1 drop in the affected eye(s) twice daily, every 6 to 8 hours, no more than twice per day • if using other ophthalmic products while using this product, wait at least 5 minutes between each product • replace cap after each use • children under 2 years of age: consult a doctor DIRECTIONS adults and children 2 years of age and older: put 1 drop in the affected eye(s) once daily, no more than once per day if using other ophthalmic products while using this product, wait at least 5 minutes between each product replace cap after each use children under 2 years of age: consult a doctor
Warnings: Warnings For external use only

=== TERAZOSIN HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Terazosin capsules are indicated for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). There is a rapid response, with approximately 70% of patients experiencing an increase in urinary flow and improvement in symptoms of BPH when treated with terazosin capsules. The long-term effects of terazosin capsules on the incidence of surgery, acute urinary obstruction or other complications of BPH are yet to be determined. Terazosin capsules are also indicated for the treatment of hypertension. Terazosin capsules can be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents such as diuretics or beta-adrenergic blocking agents. The long-term effects of terazosin on the incidence of surgery, acute urinary obstruction or other complications of BPH are yet to be determined. It can be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents such as diuretics or beta-adrenergic blocking agents. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Terazosin capsules, USP are indicated for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). There is a rapid response, with approximately 70% of patients experiencing an increase in urinary flow and improvement in symptoms of BPH when treated with terazosin capsules, USP. The long-term effects of terazosin capsules, USP on the incidence of surgery, acute urinary obstruction or other complications of BPH are yet to be determined. Terazosin capsules, USP are also indicated for the treatment of hypertension. Terazosin capsules, USP can be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents such as diuretics or beta-adrenergic blocking agents. There is a rapid response, with approximately 70% of patients experiencing an increase in urinary flow and improvement in symptoms of BPH when treated with terazosin. The long term effects of terazosin on the incidence of surgery, acute urinary obstruction or other complications of BPH are yet to be determined. They can be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents such as diuretics or beta-adrenergic blocking agents.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION If terazosin capsules administration is discontinued for several days, therapy should be reinstituted using the initial dosing regimen. Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia Initial Dose : 1 mg at bedtime is the starting dose for all patients, and this dose should not be exceeded as an initial dose. Patients should be closely followed during initial administration in order to minimize the risk of severe hypotensive response. Subsequent Doses : The dose should be increased in a stepwise fashion to 2 mg, 5 mg, or 10 mg once daily to achieve the desired improvement of symptoms and/or flow rates. Doses of 10 mg once daily are generally required for the clinical response. Therefore, treatment with 10 mg for a minimum of 4 to 6 weeks may be required to assess whether a beneficial response has been achieved. Some patients may not achieve a clinical response despite appropriate titration. Although some additional patients responded at a 20 mg daily dose, there was an insufficient number of patients studied to draw definitive conclusions about this dose. There are insufficient data to support the use of higher doses for those patients who show inadequate or no response to 20 mg daily. If terazosin administration is discontinued for several days or longer, therapy should be reinstituted using the initial dosing regimen. Use With Other Drugs : Caution should be observed when terazosin capsules are administered concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents, especially the calcium channel blocker verapamil, to avoid the possibility of developing significant hypotension. When using terazosin capsules and other antihypertensive agents concomitantly, dosage reduction and retitration of either agent may be necessary (see PRECAUTIONS ). Hypotension has been reported when terazosin capsules have been used with phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitors. Hypertension The dose of terazosin capsules and the dose interval (12 or 24 hours) should be adjusted according to the patient’s individual blood pressure response. The following is a guide to its administration: Initial Dose 1 mg at bedtime is the starting dose for all patients, and this dose should not be exceeded. This initial dosing regimen should be strictly observed to minimize the potential for severe hypotensive effects. Subsequent Doses The dose may be slowly increased to achieve the desired blood pressure response. The usual recommended dose range is 1 mg to 5 mg administered once a day; however, some patients may benefit from doses as high as 20 mg per day. Doses over 20 mg do not appear to provide further blood pressure effect and doses over 40 mg have not been studied. Blood pressure should be monitored at the end of the dosing interval to be sure control is maintained throughout the interval. It may also be helpful to measure blood pressure 2 to 3 hours after dosing to see if the maximum and minimum responses are similar, and to evaluate symptoms such as dizziness or palpitations which can result from excessive hypotensive response. If response is substantially diminished at 24 hours an increased dose or use of a twice daily regimen can be considered. In clinical trials, except for the initial dose, the dose was given in the morning. Use With Other Drugs (See above.) Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia Initial Dose 1 mg at bedtime is the starting dose for all patients, and this dose should not be exceeded as an initial dose. Subsequent Doses The dose should be increased in a stepwise fashion to 2 mg, 5 mg, or 10 mg once daily to achieve the desired improvement of symptoms and/or flow rates. Therefore, treatment with 10 mg for a minimum of 4 weeks to 6 weeks may be required to assess whether a beneficial response has been achieved. Use with Other Drugs Caution should be observed when terazosin capsules are administered concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents, especially the calcium channel blocker verapamil, to avoid the possibility of developing significant hypotension. When using terazosin and other antihypertensive agents concomitantly, dosage reduction and retitration of either agent may be necessary (see PRECAUTIONS ). Hypertension The dose of terazosin capsules and the dose interval (12 hours or 24 hours) should be adjusted according to the patient's individual blood pressure response. It may also be helpful to measure blood pressure 2 hours to 3 hours after dosing to see if the maximum and minimum responses are similar, and to evaluate symptoms such as dizziness or palpitations which can result from excessive hypotensive response. Use with other drugs : (see above) Hypertension The dose of terazosin capsules and the dose interval (12 or 24 hours) should be adjusted according to the patient's individual blood pressure response. Use with other drugs (see above).
Warnings: WARNINGS Syncope and “First-dose” Effect Terazosin capsules, like other alpha-adrenergic blocking agents, can cause marked lowering of blood pressure, especially postural hypotension, and syncope in association with the first dose or first few days of therapy. A similar effect can be anticipated if therapy is interrupted for several days and then restarted. Syncope has also been reported with other alpha-adrenergic blocking agents in association with rapid dosage increases or the introduction of another antihypertensive drug. Syncope is believed to be due to an excessive postural hypotensive effect, although occasionally the syncopal episode has been preceded by a bout of severe supraventricular tachycardia with heart rates of 120 to 160 beats per minute. Additionally, the possibility of the contribution of hemodilution to the symptoms of postural hypotension should be considered. To decrease the likelihood of syncope or excessive hypotension, treatment should always be initiated with a 1 mg dose of terazosin capsules, given at bedtime. The 2 mg, 5 mg and 10 mg capsules are not indicated as initial therapy. Dosage should then be increased slowly, according to recommendations in the Dosage and Administration section and additional antihypertensive agents should be added with caution. The patient should be cautioned to avoid situations, such as driving or hazardous tasks, where injury could result should syncope occur during initiation of therapy. In early investigational studies, where increasing single doses up to 7.5 mg were given at 3 day intervals, tolerance to the first dose phenomenon did not necessarily develop and the “first-dose” effect could be observed at all doses. Syncopal episodes occurred in 3 of the 14 subjects given terazosin at doses of 2.5, 5 and 7.5 mg, which are higher than the recommended initial dose; in addition, severe orthostatic hypotension (blood pressure falling to 50/0 mmHg) was seen in two others and dizziness, tachycardia, and lightheadedness occurred in most subjects. These adverse effects all occurred within 90 minutes of dosing. In three placebo-controlled BPH studies 1, 2, and 3 (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ), the incidence of postural hypotension in the terazosin treated patients was 5.1%, 5.2%, and 3.7% respectively. In multiple dose clinical trials involving nearly 2000 hypertensive patients treated with terazosin capsules, syncope was reported in about 1% of patients. Syncope was not necessarily associated only with the first dose. If syncope occurs, the patient should be placed in a recumbent position and treated supportively as necessary. There is evidence that the orthostatic effect of terazosin is greater, even in chronic use, shortly after dosing. The risk of the events is greatest during the initial seven days of treatment, but continues at all time intervals. Priapism Rarely, (probably less than once in every several thousand patients), terazosin and other α 1 -antagonists have been associated with priapism (painful penile erection, sustained for hours and unrelieved by sexual intercourse or masturbation). Two or three dozen cases have been reported. Because this condition can lead to permanent impotence if not promptly treated, patients must be advised about the seriousness of the condition (see PRECAUTIONS: Information for Patients ). WARNINGS Syncope and "First-dose" Effect Terazosin capsules, like other alpha-adrenergic blocking agents, can cause marked lowering of blood pressure, especially postural hypotension, and syncope in association with the first dose or first few days of therapy. Syncope is believed to be due to an excessive postural hypotensive effect, although occasionally the syncopal episode has been preceded by a bout of severe supraventricular tachycardia with heart rates of 120 beats to 160 beats per minute. To decrease the likelihood of syncope or excessive hypotension, treatment should always be initiated with a 1 mg dose of terazosin, given at bedtime. In early investigational studies, where increasing single doses up to 7.5 mg were given at 3 day intervals, tolerance to the first dose phenomenon did not necessarily develop and the "first dose" effect could be observed at all doses. Syncopal episodes occurred in 3 of the 14 subjects given terazosin at doses of 2.5 mg, 5 mg and 7.5 mg, which are higher than the recommended initial dose; in addition, severe orthostatic hypotension (blood pressure falling to 50/0 mmHg) was seen in two others and dizziness, tachycardia, and lightheadedness occurred in most subjects. In multiple dose clinical trials involving nearly 2,000 hypertensive patients treated with terazosin, syncope was reported in about 1% of patients. Priapism Rarely, (probably less than once in every several thousand patients) terazosin and other α 1 -antagonists have been associated with priapism (painful penile erection, sustained for hours and unrelieved by sexual intercourse or masturbation). Because this condition can lead to permanent impotence if not promptly treated, patients must be advised about the seriousness of the condition (see PRECAUTIONS : Information for Patients ). Syncopal episodes occurred in 3 of the 14 subjects given terazosin capsules at doses of 2.5, 5 and 7.5 mg, which are higher than the recommended initial dose; in addition, severe orthostatic hypotension (blood pressure falling to 50/0 mmHg) was seen in two others and dizziness, tachycardia, and lightheadedness occurred in most subjects. In three placebo-controlled BPH studies 1, 2, and 3 (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ), the incidence of postural hypotension in the terazosin capsules, treated patients was 5.1%, 5.2%, and 3.7% respectively. There is evidence that the orthostatic effect of terazosin capsules is greater, even in chronic use, shortly after dosing. In multiple dose clinical trials involving nearly 2000 hypertensive patients treated with terazosin, syncope was reported in about 1% of patients. Priapism Rarely, (probably less than once in every several thousand patients), terazosin and other α 1 – antagonists have been associated with priapism (painful penile erection, sustained for hours and unrelieved by sexual intercourse or masturbation). Because this condition can lead to permanent impotence if not promptly treated, patients must be advised about the seriousness of the condition (see PRECAUTIONS, Information for Patients ).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Terazosin capsules are contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to terazosin hydrochloride.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions In controlled trials, terazosin have been added to diuretics, and several beta-adrenergic blockers; no unexpected interactions were observed. Terazosin has also been used in patients on a variety of concomitant therapies; while these were not formal interaction studies, no interactions were observed. Terazosin has been used concomitantly in at least 50 patients on the following drugs or drug classes: analgesic/anti-inflammatory (e.g., acetaminophen, aspirin, codeine, ibuprofen, indomethacin); antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole); anticholinergic/sympathomimetics (e.g., phenylephrine hydrochloride, phenylpropanolamine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine hydrochloride); antigout (e.g., allopurinol); antihistamines (e.g., chlorpheniramine); cardiovascular agents (e.g., atenolol, hydrochlorothiazide, methyclothiazide, propranolol); corticosteroids; gastrointestinal agents (e.g., antacids); hypoglycemics; sedatives and tranquilizers (e.g., diazepam). Drug Interactions In controlled trials, terazosin has been added to diuretics, and several beta-adrenergic blockers; no unexpected interactions were observed. Terazosin has been used concomitantly in at least 50 patients on the following drugs or drug classes: 1) analgesic/anti-inflammatory (e.g., acetaminophen, aspirin, codeine, ibuprofen, indomethacin). 2) antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole). 3) anticholinergic/sympathomimetics (e.g., phenylephrine hydrochloride, phenylpropanolamine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine hydrochloride). 4) antigout (e.g., allopurinol). 5) antihistamines (e.g., chlorpheniramine). 6) cardiovascular agents (e.g., atenolol, hydrochlorothiazide, methyclothiazide, propranolol). 7) corticosteroids. 8) gastrointestinal agents (e.g., antacids). 9) hypoglycemics. 10) sedatives and tranquilizers (e.g., diazepam). Use with Other Drugs In a study (n = 24) where terazosin and verapamil were administered concomitantly, terazosin's mean AUC 0-24 increased 11% after the first verapamil dose and after 3 weeks of verapamil treatment it increased by 24% with associated increases in C max (25%) and C min (32%) means. Terazosin mean T max decreased from 1.3 hours to 0.8 hours after 3 weeks of verapamil treatment. Statistically significant differences were not found in the verapamil level with and without terazosin. In a study (n = 6) where terazosin and captopril were administered concomitantly, plasma disposition of captopril was not influenced by concomitant administration of terazosin and terazosin maximum plasma concentrations increased linearly with dose at steady-state after administration of terazosin plus captopril (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility Terazosin was devoid of mutagenic potential when evaluated in vivo and in vitro (the Ames test, in vivo cytogenetics, the dominant lethal test in mice, in vivo Chinese hamster chromosome aberration test and V79 forward mutation assay). Terazosin, administered in the feed to rats at doses of 8 mg/kg/day, 40 mg/kg/day, and 250 mg/kg/day (70 mg/m 2 /day, 350 mg/m 2 /day, and 2,100 mg/m 2 /day), for two years, was associated with a statistically significant increase in benign adrenal medullary tumors of male rats exposed to the 250 mg/kg dose. This dose is 175 times the maximum recommended human dose of 20 mg (12 mg/m 2 ). Female rats were unaffected. Terazosin was not oncogenic in mice when administered in feed for 2 years at a maximum tolerated dose of 32 mg/kg/day (110 mg/m 2 ; 9 times the maximum recommended human dose). The absence of mutagenicity in a battery of tests, of tumorigenicity of any cell type in the mouse carcinogenicity assay, of increased total tumor incidence in either species, and of proliferative adrenal lesions in female rats, suggests a male rat species-specific event. Numerous other diverse pharmaceutical and chemical compounds have also been associated with benign adrenal medullary tumors in male rats without supporting evidence for carcinogenicity in man. The effect of terazosin on fertility was assessed in a standard fertility/reproductive performance study in which male and female rats were administered oral doses of 8 mg/kg/day, 30 mg/kg/day and 120 mg/kg/day. Four of 20 male rats given 30 mg/kg (240 mg/m 2 ; 20 times the maximum recommended human dose) and five of 19 male rats given 120 mg/kg (960 mg/m 2 ; 80 times the maximum recommended human dose) failed to sire a litter. Testicular weights and morphology were unaffected by treatment. Vaginal smears at 30 mg/kg/day and 120 mg/kg/day, however, appeared to contain less sperm than smears from control matings and good correlation was reported between sperm count and subsequent pregnancy. Oral administration of terazosin for one or two years elicited a statistically significant increase in the incidence of testicular atrophy in rats exposed to 40 mg/kg/day and 250 mg/kg/day (29 times and 175 times the maximum recommended human dose), but not in rats exposed to 8 mg/kg/day (> 6 times the maximum recommended human dose). Testicular atrophy was also observed in dogs dosed with 300 mg/kg/day (> 500 times the maximum recommended human dose) for three months but not after one year when dosed with 20 mg/kg/day (38 times the maximum recommended human dose). This lesion has also been seen with prazosin hydrochloride, another (marketed) selective-alpha-1 blocking agent. Drug Interactions In controlled trials, terazosin capsules have been added to diuretics, and several beta-adrenergic blockers; no unexpected interactions were observed. Terazosin capsules have also been used in patients on a variety of concomitant therapies; while these were not formal interaction studies, no interactions were observed. Terazosin capsules have been used concomitantly in at least 50 patients on the following drugs or drug classes: analgesic/anti-inflammatory (e.g., acetaminophen, aspirin, codeine, ibuprofen, indomethacin); antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole); anticholinergic/sympathomimetics (e.g., phenylephrine hydrochloride, phenylpropanolamine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine hydrochloride); antigout (e.g., allopurinol); antihistamines (e.g., chlorpheniramine); cardiovascular agents (e.g., atenolol, hydrochlorothiazide, methyclothiazide, propranolol); corticosteroids; gastrointestinal agents (e.g., antacids); hypoglycemics sedatives and tranquilizers (e.g., diazepam). Terazosin has been used concomitantly in at least 50 patients on the following drugs or drug classes: 1) analgesic/anti-inflammatory (e.g., acetaminophen, aspirin, codeine, ibuprofen, indomethacin); 2) antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole); 3) anticholinergic/sympathomimetics (e.g., phenylephrine hydrochloride, phenylpropanolamine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine hydrochloride); 4) antigout (e.g., allopurinol); 5) antihistamines (e.g., chlorpheniramine); 6) cardiovascular agents (e.g., atenolol, hydrochlorothiazide, methyclothiazide, propranolol); 7) corticosteroids; 8) gastrointestinal agents (e.g., antacids); 9) hypoglycemics; 10) sedatives and tranquilizers (e.g., diazepam). Terazosin has been used concomitantly in at least 50 patients on the following drugs or drug classes: • analgesic/anti-inflammatory (e.g., acetaminophen, aspirin, codeine, ibuprofen, indomethacin); • antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole); • anticholinergic/sympathomimetics (e.g., phenylephrine hydrochloride, phenylpropanolamine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine hydrochloride); • antigout (e.g., allopurinol); • antihistamines (e.g., chlorpheniramine); • cardiovascular agents (e.g., atenolol, hydrochlorothiazide, methyclothiazide, propranolol); • corticosteroids; • gastrointestinal agents (e.g., antacids); • hypoglycemics; • sedatives and tranquilizers (e.g., diazepam).

=== TIZANIDINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tizanidine hydrochloride is indicated for the management of spasticity. Because of the short duration of therapeutic effect, treatment with tizanidine hydrochloride should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )]. Tizanidine hydrochloride is a central alpha-2-adrenergic agonist indicated for the management of spasticity. Because of the short duration of therapeutic effect, treatment with tizanidine hydrochloride capsules should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tizanidine is indicated for the treatment of spasticity in adults. Tizanidine is a central alpha-2-adrenergic agonist indicated for the treatment of spasticity. (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tizanidine Tablets, USP is a central alpha-2-adrenergic agonist indicated for the management of spasticity. Because of the short duration of therapeutic effect, treatment with Tizanidine Tablets, USP should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important [see Dosage and Administration(2.1) ]. Tizanidine Tablets, USP is a central alpha-2-adrenergic agonist indicated for the management of spasticity. Because of the short duration of therapeutic effect, treatment with Tizanidine Tablets, USP should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important [ see Dosage and Administration (1) ]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Zanaflex is indicated for the management of spasticity. Because of the short duration of therapeutic effect, treatment with Zanaflex should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 )] . Zanaflex is a central alpha-2-adrenergic agonist indicated for the management of spasticity. Because of the short duration of therapeutic effect, treatment with Zanaflex should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important. INDICATIONS & USAGE SECTION Tizanidine tablet is a short-acting drug for the management of spasticity. Because of the short duration of effect, treatment with tizanidine should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tizanidine capsules are indicated for the treatment of spasticity in adults. Tizanidine capsules are a central alpha-2-adrenergic agonist indicated for the treatment of spasticity. Because of the short duration of therapeutic effect, treatment with Tizanidine Tablets, USP should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ]. Because of the short duration of therapeutic effect, treatment with Tizanidine Tablets, USP should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important [see Dosage and Administration (1) ]. Tizanidine hydrochloride is indicated for the management of spasticity. Because of the short duration of therapeutic effect, treatment with tizanidine hydrochloride capsules should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2.1)]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tizanidine capsules are a central alpha-2-adrenergic agonist indicated for the treatment of spasticity. ( 1 ) Tizanidine capsules are indicated for the treatment of spasticity in adults.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended starting dose: 2 mg; dose can be repeated at 6- to 8-hour intervals, up to a maximum of 3 doses in 24 hours ( 2.1 ) Dosage can be increased by 2 mg to 4 mg per dose, with 1 to 4 days between increases; total daily dose should not exceed 36 mg ( 2.1 ) Tizanidine pharmacokinetics differs between tablets and capsules, and when taken with or without food. These differences could result in a change in tolerability and control of symptoms ( 2.1 , 12.3 ) To discontinue tizanidine hydrochloride capsules, decrease dose slowly to minimize the risk of withdrawal and rebound hypertension, tachycardia, and hypertonia ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Dosing Information Tizanidine hydrochloride capsules may be prescribed with or without food. Once the formulation has been selected and the decision to take with or without food has been made, this regimen should not be altered. Food has complex effects on tizanidine pharmacokinetics, which differ with the different formulations. Tizanidine hydrochloride capsules and tizanidine tablets are bioequivalent to each other under fasting conditions (more than 3 hours after a meal), but not under fed conditions (within 30 minutes of a meal). These pharmacokinetic differences may result in clinically significant differences when switching administration of tablet and capsules and when switching administration between the fed or fasted state. These changes may result in increased adverse events, or delayed or more rapid onset of activity, depending upon the nature of the switch. For this reason, the prescriber should be thoroughly familiar with the changes in kinetics associated with these different conditions [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. The recommended starting dose is 2 mg. Because the effect of tizanidine hydrochloride capsule peaks at approximately 1 to 2 hours post-dose and dissipates between 3 to 6 hours post-dose, treatment can be repeated at 6 to 8 hour intervals, as needed, to a maximum of three doses in 24 hours. Dosage can be gradually increased by 2 mg to 4 mg at each dose, with 1 to 4 days between dosage increases, until a satisfactory reduction of muscle tone is achieved. The total daily dose should not exceed 36 mg. Single doses greater than 16 mg have not been studied. 2.2 Dosing in Patients with Renal Impairment Tizanidine hydrochloride capsules should be used with caution in patients with renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance < 25 mL/min), as clearance is reduced by more than 50%. In these patients, during titration, the individual doses should be reduced. If higher doses are required, individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )]. 2.3 Dosing in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Tizanidine hydrochloride capsules should be used with caution in patients with any hepatic impairment. If higher doses are required, individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased. Monitoring of aminotransferase levels is recommended for baseline and 1 month after maximum dose is achieved, or if hepatic injury is suspected [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )]. 2.4 Drug Discontinuation If therapy needs to be discontinued, particularly in patients who have been receiving high doses (20 mg to 36 mg daily) for long periods (9 weeks or more) or who maybe on concomitant treatment with narcotics, the dose should be decreased slowly (2 mg to 4 mg per day) to minimize the risk of withdrawal and rebound hypertension, tachycardia, and hypertonia [see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Monitoring of aminotransferase levels is recommended at baseline and 1 month after maximum dose is achieved. ( 2.1 ) Recommended starting dose: 2 mg by mouth every 6 to 8 hours, as needed, up to a maximum of 3 doses in 24 hours ( 2.2 ) Dosage can be increased by 2 mg to 4 mg per dose every 1 to 4 days; maximum total daily dosage is 36 mg ( 2.2 ) Tizanidine pharmacokinetics differs between tablets and capsules, and when taken with or without food. These differences could result in a change in tolerability and control of symptoms. Consistent administration with respect to food is recommended. If substitution between dosage forms is necessary, take into consideration these pharmacokinetic differences. ( 2.2 , 2.6 , 12.3 ) Patients with renal impairment (creatinine clearance <25 mL/min) or hepatic impairment: use lower individual doses during titration.If higher doses are required, individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased. ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) To discontinue tizanidine tablets, decrease dose slowly to minimize the risk of withdrawal adverse reactions ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Recommended Evaluation and Testing Before and After Initiating Tizanidine Monitoring of aminotransferase levels is recommended at baseline and 1 month after maximum dose is achieved [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. 2.2 Recommended Dosage The recommended starting dose is 2 mg by mouth every 6 to 8 hours, as needed, to a maximum of three doses in 24 hours. Dosage can be gradually increased every 1 to 4 days by 2 mg to 4 mg at each dose based on clinical response and tolerability. The maximum total daily dosage is 36 mg. There are pharmacokinetic differences when administering tizanidine between the fed or fasted state [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Tizanidine may be taken with or without food; however, consistent administration with respect to food is recommended to reduce variability in tizanidine plasma exposure. Because of the short duration of therapeutic effect, treatment with tizanidine should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment I n patients with creatinine clearance < 25 mL/min, use lower individual doses during titration. If higher doses are required, the individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 2.4 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment I n patients with hepatic impairment, use lower individual doses during titration. If higher doses are required, individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2.5 Discontinuation of Tizanidine Tablets When discontinuing tizanidine tablets, particularly in patients who have been receiving high doses for long periods or who may be on concomitant treatment with narcotics, decrease the dosage by 2 mg to 4 mg per day to minimize the risk of withdrawal adverse reactions [see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )]. 2.6 Switching Between With/Without Food and Different Tizanidine Dosage Forms There are pharmacokinetic differences when: 1) switching between administration of tizanidine tablets with or without food 2) switching between dosage forms if being administered with food. If these situations occur, monitor patients for therapeutic effect or adverse reactions [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended starting dose: 2 mg; dose can be repeated at 6 to 8 hour intervals, up to a maximum of 3 doses in 24 hours (2.1) • Dosage can be increased by 2 mg to 4 mg per dose, with 1 to 4 days between increases; total daily dose should not exceed 36 mg (2.1) • Tizanidine pharmacokinetics differs between tablets and capsules, and when taken with or without food. These differences could result in a change in tolerability and control of symptoms ( 2.1 , 12.3 ) • To discontinue Tizanidine Tablets, USP, decrease dose slowly to minimize the risk of withdrawal and rebound hypertension, tachycardia, and hypertonia ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Dosing Information Tizanidine Tablets, USP tablets may be prescribed with or without food. Tizanidine Capsules and Tizanidine Tablets, USP are bioequivalent to each other under fasting conditions (more than 3 hours after a meal), but not under fed conditions (within 30 minutes of a meal). For this reason, the prescriber should be thoroughly familiar with the changes in kinetics associated with these different conditions [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Because the effect of Tizanidine Tablets, USP peaks at approximately 1 to 2 hours post-dose and dissipates between 3 to 6 hours post-dose, treatment can be repeated at 6 to 8 hour intervals, as needed, to a maximum of three doses in 24 hours. 2.2 Dosing in Patients with Renal Impairment Tizanidine Tablets, USP should be used with caution in patients with renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance < 25 mL/min), as clearance is reduced by more than 50%. If higher doses are required, individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 2.3 Dosing in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Tizanidine Tablets, USP should be used with caution in patients with any hepatic impairment. Monitoring of aminotransferase levels is recommended for baseline and 1 month after maximum dose is achieved, or if hepatic injury is suspected. [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] 2.4 Drug Discontinuation If therapy needs to be discontinued, particularly in patients who have been receiving high doses (20 mg to 36 mg daily) for long periods (9 weeks or more) or who may be on concomitant treatment with narcotics, the dose should be decreased slowly (2 mg to 4 mg per day) to minimize the risk of withdrawal and rebound hypertension, tachycardia, and hypertonia [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended starting dose: 2 mg; dose can be repeated at 6 to 8 hour intervals, up to a maximum of 3 doses in 24 hours ( 2.1 ) Dosage can be increased by 2 mg to 4 mg per dose, with 1 to 4 days between increases; total daily dose should not exceed 36 mg ( 2.1 ) Tizanidine pharmacokinetics differs between tablets and capsules, and when taken with or without food. These differences could result in a change in tolerability and control of symptoms ( 2.1 , 12.3 ) To discontinue Zanaflex, decrease dose slowly to minimize the risk of withdrawal and rebound hypertension, tachycardia, and hypertonia ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Dosing Information Zanaflex Capsules ® or Zanaflex ® tablets may be prescribed with or without food. Zanaflex Capsules and Zanaflex tablets are bioequivalent to each other under fasting conditions (more than 3 hours after a meal), but not under fed conditions (within 30 minutes of a meal). For this reason, the prescriber should be thoroughly familiar with the changes in kinetics associated with these different conditions [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Because the effect of Zanaflex peaks at approximately 1 to 2 hours post-dose and dissipates between 3 to 6 hours post-dose, treatment can be repeated at 6 to 8 hour intervals, as needed, to a maximum of three doses in 24 hours. 2.2 Dosing in Patients with Renal Impairment Zanaflex should be used with caution in patients with renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance < 25 mL/min), as clearance is reduced by more than 50%. If higher doses are required, individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . 2.3 Dosing in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Zanaflex should be used with caution in patients with any hepatic impairment. Monitoring of aminotransferase levels is recommended for baseline and 1 month after maximum dose is achieved, or if hepatic injury is suspected [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )] . 2.4 Drug Discontinuation If therapy needs to be discontinued, particularly in patients who have been receiving high doses (20 mg to 36 mg daily) for long periods (9 weeks or more) or who may be on concomitant treatment with narcotics, the dose should be decreased slowly (2 mg to 4 mg per day) to minimize the risk of withdrawal and rebound hypertension, tachycardia, and hypertonia [see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )] . DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION A single dose of 8 mg of tizanidine reduces muscle tone in patients with spasticity for a period of several hours. The effect peaks at approximately 1 to 2 hours and dissipates between 3 to 6 hours. Effects are dose-related. Although single doses of less than 8 mg have not been demonstrated to be effective in controlled clinical studies, the dose-related nature of tizanidine's common adverse events make it prudent to begin treatment with single oral doses of 4 mg. Increase the dose gradually (2 to 4 mg steps) to optimum effect (satisfactory reduction of muscle tone at a tolerated dose). The dose can be repeated at 6 to 8 hour intervals, as needed, to a maximum of three doses in 24 hours. Experience with single doses exceeding 8 mg and daily doses exceeding 24 mg is limited. There is essentially no experience with repeated, single, daytime doses greater than 12 mg or total daily doses greater than 36 mg (see WARNINGS). These pharmacokinetic differences may result in clinically significant differences when [1] switching administration of the tablet between the fed or fasted state, [2] switching administration of the capsule between the fed or fasted state, [3] switching between the tablet and capsule in the fed state, or [4] switching between the intact capsule and sprinkling the contents of the capsule on applesauce. These changes may result in increased adverse events or delayed/more rapid onset of activity, depending upon the nature of the switch. For this reason, the prescriber should be thoroughly familiar with the changes in kinetics associated with these different conditions (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacokinetics). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Monitoring of aminotransferase levels is recommended at baseline and 1 month after maximum dose is achieved. ( 2.1 ) • Recommended starting dose: 2 mg by mouth every 6 to 8 hours, as needed, up to a maximum of 3 doses in 24 hours ( 2.2 ) • Dosage can be increased by 2 mg to 4 mg per dose every 1 to 4 days; maximum total daily dosage is 36 mg ( 2.2 ) • Tizanidine pharmacokinetics differs between tablets and capsules, and when taken with or without food. ( 2.2 , 2.6 , 12.3 ) • Patients with renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 25 mL/min) or hepatic impairment: use lower individual doses during titration. ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) • To discontinue tizanidine capsules, decrease dose slowly to minimize the risk of withdrawal adverse reactions ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Recommended Evaluation and Testing Before and After Initiating Tizanidine Capsules Monitoring of aminotransferase levels is recommended at baseline and 1 month after maximum dose is achieved [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. There are pharmacokinetic differences when administering tizanidine capsule between the fed or fasted state [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Tizanidine capsules may be taken with or without food; however, consistent administration with respect to food is recommended to reduce variability in tizanidine plasma exposure. Because of the short duration of therapeutic effect, treatment with tizanidine capsules should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with creatinine clearance less than 25 mL/min, use lower individual doses during titration. If higher doses are required, the individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2.4 Recommended Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment In patients with hepatic impairment, use lower individual doses during titration. If higher doses are required, individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3) ]. 2.5 Discontinuation of Tizanidine Capsules When discontinuing tizanidine capsule, particularly in patients who have been receiving high doses for long periods or who may be on concomitant treatment with narcotics, decrease the dosage by 2 mg to 4 mg per day to minimize the risk of withdrawal adverse reactions [see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )]. 2.6 Switching Between With/Without Food and Different Tizanidine Dosage Forms There are pharmacokinetic differences when: 1) switching between administration of tizanidine with or without food 2) switching between dosage forms if being administered with food. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended starting dose: 2 mg; dose can be repeated at 6 to 8 hour intervals, up to a maximum of 3 doses in 24 hours (2.1) Dosage can be increased by 2 mg to 4 mg per dose, with 1 to 4 days between increases; total daily dose should not exceed 36 mg (2.1) Tizanidine pharmacokinetics differs between tablets and capsules, and when taken with or without food. These differences could result in a change in tolerability and control of symptoms ( 2.1 , 12.3 ) To discontinue Tizanidine Tablets, USP, decrease dose slowly to minimize the risk of withdrawal and rebound hypertension, tachycardia, and hypertonia ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Dosing Information Tizanidine Tablets, USP tablets may be prescribed with or without food. 2.1 Dosing Information Tizanidine hydrochloride Capsules may be prescribed with or without food. For this reason, the prescriber should be thoroughly familiar with the changes in kinetics associated with these different conditions [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. Because the effect of tizanidine hydrochloride capsules peaks at approximately 1 to 2 hours post-dose and dissipates between 3 to 6 hours post-dose, treatment can be repeated at 6 to 8 hour intervals, as needed, to a maximum of three doses in 24 hours. If higher doses are required, individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.7)]. Monitoring of aminotransferase levels is recommended for baseline and 1 month after maximum dose is achieved, or if hepatic injury is suspected [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS (8.7)]. 2.4 Drug Discontinuation If therapy needs to be discontinued, particularly in patients who have been receiving high doses (20 mg to 36 mg daily) for long periods (9 weeks or more) or who may be on concomitant treatment with narcotics, the dose should be decreased slowly (2 mg to 4 mg per day) to minimize the risk of withdrawal and rebound hypertension, tachycardia, and hypertonia [see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE (9.3)]. ( 2.2 , 2.6 , 12.3 ) Patients with renal impairment (creatinine clearance <25 mL/min) or hepatic impairment: use lower individual doses during titration. ( 2.3 , 2.4 ) To discontinue tizanidine hydrochloride, decrease dose slowly to minimize the risk of withdrawal adverse reactions ( 2.5 ) 2.1 Recommended Evaluation and Testing Before and After Initiating Tizanidine Capsules Monitoring of aminotransferase levels is recommended at baseline and 1 month after maximum dose is achieved [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. There are pharmacokinetic differences when administering tizanidine hydrochloride between the fed or fasted state [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Tizanidine capsules may be taken with or without food; however, consistent administration with respect to food is recommended to reduce variability in tizanidine plasma exposure . Because of the short duration of therapeutic effect, treatment with tizanidine hydrochloride should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important. 2.3 Recommended Dosage Patients with Renal Impairment In patients with creatinine clearance <25 mL/min, use lower individual doses during titration. If higher doses are required, the individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . If higher doses are required, individual doses rather than dosing frequency should be increased [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.5 Discontinuation of Tizanidine Capsules When discontinuing tizanidine capsules, particularly in patients who have been receiving high doses for long periods or who may be on concomitant treatment with narcotics, decrease the dosage by 2 mg to 4 mg per day to minimize the risk of withdrawal adverse reactions [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3) ]. 2.6 Switching Between with/without Food and Different Tizanidine Dosage Forms There are pharmacokinetic differences when: 1) switching between administration of tizanidine hydrochloride capsules with or without food 2) switching between dosage forms if being administered with food . If these situations occur, monitor patients for therapeutic effect or adverse reactions [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3 )
Warnings: WARNINGS SECTION LIMITED DATA BASE FOR CHRONIC USE OF SINGLE DOSES ABOVE 8 MG AND MULTIPLE DOSES ABOVE 24 MG PER DAY Clinical experience with long-term use of tizanidine at doses of 8 to 16 mg single doses or total daily doses of 24 to 36 mg (see Dosage and Administration) is limited. In safety studies, approximately 75 patients have been exposed to individual doses of 12 mg or more for at least one year or more and approximately 80 patients have been exposed to total daily doses of 30 to 36 mg/day for at least one year or more. There is essentially no long-term experience with single, daytime doses of 16 mg. Because long-term clinical study experience at high doses is limited, only those adverse events with a relatively high incidence are likely to have been identified (see WARNINGS, PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS). HYPOTENSION Tizanidine is a α2-adrenergic agonist (like clonidine) and can produce hypotension. In a single dose study where blood pressure was monitored closely after dosing, two-thirds of patients treated with 8 mg of tizanidine had a 20% reduction in either the diastolic or systolic BP. The reduction was seen within 1 hour after dosing, peaked 2 to 3 hours after dosing and was associated, at times, with bradycardia, orthostatic hypotension, lightheadedness/dizziness and rarely syncope. The hypotensive effect is dose related and has been measured following single doses of ≥ 2 mg. The chance of significant hypotension may possibly be minimized by titration of the dose and by focusing attention on signs and symptoms of hypotension prior to dose advancement. In addition, patients moving from a supine to a fixed upright position may be at increased risk for hypotension and orthostatic effects. Caution is advised when tizanidine is to be used in patients receiving concurrent antihypertensive therapy and should not be used with other α2-adrenergic agonists. Clinically significant hypotension (decreases in both systolic and diastolic pressure) has been reported with concomitant administration of either fluvoxamine or ciprofloxacin and single doses of 4 mg of tizanidine. Therefore, concomitant use of tizanidine with fluvoxamine or with ciprofloxacin, potent inhibitors of CYP1A2, is contraindicated (see CONTRAINDICATIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interactions). RISK OF LIVER INJURY Tizanidine occasionally causes liver injury, most often hepatocellular in type. In controlled clinical studies, approximately 5% of patients treated with tizanidine had elevations of liver function tests (ALT/SGPT, AST/SGOT) to greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal (or 2 times if baseline levels were elevated) compared to 0.4% in the control patients. Most cases resolved rapidly upon drug withdrawal with no reported residual problems. In occasional symptomatic cases, nausea, vomiting, anorexia and jaundice have been reported. Based upon postmarketing experience, death associated with liver failure has been a rare occurrence reported in patients treated with tizanidine. Monitoring of aminotransferase levels is recommended during the first 6 months of treatment (e.g., baseline, 1, 3 and 6 months) and periodically thereafter, based on clinical status. Because of the potential toxic hepatic effect of tizanidine, the drug should ordinarily be avoided or used with extreme caution in patients with impaired hepatic function. SEDATION In the multiple doses, controlled clinical studies, 48% of patients receiving any dose of tizanidine reported sedation as an adverse event. In 10% of these cases, the sedation was rated as severe compared to < 1% in the placebo treated patients. Sedation may interfere with everyday activity. The effect appears to be dose related. In a single dose study, 92% of the patients receiving 16 mg, when asked, reported that they were drowsy during the 6 hour study. This compares to 76% of the patients on 8 mg and 35% of the patients on placebo. Patients began noting this effect 30 minutes following dosing. The effect peaked 1.5 hours following dosing. Of the patients who received a single dose of 16 mg, 51% continued to report drowsiness 6 hours following dosing compared to 13% in the patients receiving placebo or 8 mg of tizanidine. In the multiple dose studies, the prevalence of patients with sedation peaked following the first week of titration and then remained stable for the duration of the maintenance phase of the study. HALLUCINOSIS/PSYCHOTIC-LIKE SYMPTOMS Tizanidine use has been associated with hallucinations. Formed, visual hallucinations or delusions have been reported in 5 of 170 patients (3%) in two North American controlled clinical studies. These 5 cases occurred within the first 6 weeks. Most of the patients were aware that the events were unreal. One patient developed psychoses in association with the hallucinations. One patient among these 5 continued to have problems for at least 2 weeks following discontinuation of tizanidine. USE IN PATIENTS WITH HEPATIC IMPAIRMENT The influence of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of tizanidine has not been evaluated. Because tizanidine is extensively metabolized in the liver, hepatic impairment would be expected to have significant effects on the pharmacokinetics of tizanidine. Tizanidine should ordinarily be avoided or used with extreme caution in patients with hepatic impairment (See also RISK OF LIVER INJURY). POTENTIAL INTERACTION WITH FLUVOXAMINE OR CIPROFLOXACIN In a pharmacokinetic study, tizanidine serum concentration was significantly increased (Cmax 12-fold, AUC 33-fold) when the drug was given concomitantly with fluvoxamine. Potentiated hypotensive and sedative effects were observed. Fluvoxamine and tizanidine should not be used together. (See CONTRAINDICATIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interactions). In a pharmacokinetic study, tizanidine serum concentration was significantly increased (Cmax 7-fold, AUC 10-fold) when the drug was given concomitantly with ciprofloxacin. Ciprofloxacin and tizanidine should not be used together (See CONTRAINDICATIONS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interactions). POSSIBLE INTERACTION WITH OTHER CYP1A2 INHIBITORS Because of potential drug interactions, concomitant use of tizanidine with other CYP1A2 inhibitors, such as zileuton, other fluoroquinolones, antiarrythmics (amiodarone, mexiletine, propafenone, and verapamil), cimetidine, famotidine, oral contraceptives, acyclovir and ticlopidine (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interactions) should ordinarily be avoided. If their use is clinically necessary, they should be used with caution.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tizanidine hydrochloride capsules is contraindicated in patients taking potent inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as fluvoxamine or ciprofloxacin [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 , 7.2 )]. Concomitant use with potent inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as fluvoxamine or ciprofloxacin( 4 , 5.5 , 7.1 , 7.2 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tizanidine is contraindicated in patients: • taking strong CYP1A2 inhibitors [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. • with a history of hypersensitivity to tizanidine or the ingredients in tizanidine tablets. Symptoms have included anaphylaxis and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )]. Concomitant use with strong CYP1A2 inhibitors ( 4 , 7.1 ) Patients with a history of hypersensitivity to tizanidine or the ingredients in tizanidine tablets ( 4 , 5.5 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tizanidine Tablets, USP is contraindicated in patientstaking potent inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as fluvoxamine or ciprofloxacin [ see Drug Interactions (7.1 , 7.2 ) ]. Concomitant use with potent inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as fluvoxamine or ciprofloxacin ( 4 , 5.5 , 7.1 , 7.2 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Zanaflex is contraindicated in patients taking potent inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as fluvoxamine or ciprofloxacin [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 , 7.2 )] . CONTRAINDICATIONS SECTION Concomitant use of tizanidine with fluvoxamine or with ciprofloxacin, potent inhibitors of CYP1A2, is contraindicated. Significant alterations of pharmacokinetic parameters of tizanidine including increased AUC, t1/2, Cmax, increased oral bioavailability and decreased plasma clearance have been observed with concomitant administration of either fluvoxamine or ciprofloxacin. This pharmacokinetic interaction can result in potentially serious adverse events (See WARNINGS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interactions). Tizanidine tablets is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to Tizanidine tablets or its ingredients. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tizanidine capsules are contraindicated in patients: • taking strong CYP1A2 inhibitors [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. • with a history of hypersensitivity to tizanidine or the ingredients in tizanidine capsules. • Concomitant use with strong CYP1A2 inhibitors ( 4 , 7.1 ) • Patients with a history of hypersensitivity to tizanidine or the ingredients in tizanidine ( 4 , 5.5 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Tizanidine Tablets, USP is contraindicated in patientstaking potent inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as fluvoxamine or ciprofloxacin [ see Drug Interactions (7.1 , 7.2) ]. Tizanidine hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in patients taking potent inhibitors of CYP1A2, such as fluvoxamine or ciprofloxacin [see DRUG INTERACTIONS (7.1, 7.2)]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Concomitant use with strong CYP1A2 inhibitors ( 4 , 7.1 ) Patients with a history of hypersensitivity to tizanidine or the ingredients in tizanidine capsules ( 4 , 5.5 ) Tizanidine capsules are contraindicated in patients: taking strong CYP1A2inhibitors [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . with a history of hypersensitivity to tizanidine or the ingredients in tizanidine capsules. Symptoms have included anaphylaxis and angioedema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)].
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Fluvoxamine Concomitant use of fluvoxamine and tizanidine is contraindicated. Changes in pharmacokinetics of tizanidine when administered with fluvoxamine resulted in significantly decreased blood pressure, increased drowsiness, and increased psychomotor impairment [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.2 Ciprofloxacin Concomitant use of ciprofloxacin and tizanidine is contraindicated. Changes in pharmacokinetics of tizanidine when administered with ciprofloxacin resulted in significantly decreased blood pressure, increased drowsiness, and increased psychomotor impairment [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.3 CYP1A2 Inhibitors other than Fluvoxamine and Ciprofloxacin Because of potential drug interactions, concomitant use of tizanidine with other CYP1A2 inhibitors, such as zileuton, fluoroquinolones other than strong CYP1A2 inhibitors (which are contraindicated), antiarrhythmics (amiodarone, mexiletine, propafenone, and verapamil), cimetidine, famotidine, oral contraceptives, acyclovir, and ticlopidine) should be avoided. If their use is clinically necessary, therapy should be initiated with 2 mg dose and increased in 2 to 4 mg steps daily based on patient response to therapy. If adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur, reduce or discontinue tizanidine therapy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.4 Oral Contraceptives Concomitant use of tizanidine with oral contraceptives is not recommended. However, if concomitant use is clinically necessary, initiate tizanidine with a single 2 mg dose and increase in 2 to 4 mg steps daily based on patient response to therapy. If adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur, reduce or discontinue tizanidine therapy [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.5 Alcohol Alcohol increases the overall amount of drug in the bloodstream after a dose of tizanidine. This was associated with an increase in adverse reactions of tizanidine. The CNS depressant effects of tizanidine and alcohol are additive [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.6 Other CNS Depressants The sedative effects of tizanidine with CNS depressants (e.g., benzodiazepines, opioids, tricyclic antidepressants) may be additive. Monitor patients who take tizanidine with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.7 α 2 -Adrenergic Agonists Because hypotensive effects may be cumulative, it is not recommended that tizanidine be used with other α 2- adrenergic agonists [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Moderate or weak CYP1A2 inhibitors: avoid concomitant use; may cause hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness; if concomitant use is necessary and adverse reactions occur, reduce tizanidine dosage or discontinue. ( 7.2 , 12.3 ) 7.1 Strong CYP1A2 Inhibitors Concomitant use of tizanidine with strong cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2) inhibitors (e.g., fluvoxamine, ciprofloxacin) is contraindicated. Changes in pharmacokinetics of tizanidine when administered with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor resulted in significantly decreased blood pressure, increased drowsiness, and increased psychomotor impairment [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.2 Moderate or Weak CYP1A2 Inhibitors Concomitant use of tizanidine with moderate or weak CYP1A2 inhibitors (e.g., zileuton, antiarrhythmics [amiodarone, mexiletine, propafenone, and verapamil], cimetidine, famotidine, oral contraceptives, acyclovir, and ticlopidine) should be avoided. If concomitant use is clinically necessary, and adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur, reduce tizanidine dosage or discontinue tizanidine therapy [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.3 Oral Contraceptives Concomitant use of tizanidine with oral contraceptives is not recommended. However, if concomitant use is clinically necessary and adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur, reduce or discontinue tizanidine therapy [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.4 Alcohol and Other CNS Depressants Alcohol increases the exposure of tizanidine after administration of tizanidine. Concomitant use of tizanidine with CNS depressants (e.g., alcohol, benzodiazepines, opioids, tricyclic antidepressants) may cause additive CNS depressant effects, including sedation. 7.5 α 2 -Adrenergic Agonists Concomitant use of tizanidine with other α 2 -adrenergic agonists is not recommended because hypotensive effects may be cumulative [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. 7.6 Antihypertensive Medications Concomitant use of tizanidine tablets with antihypertensive medications may cause additive hypotensive effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ] . Monitor patients who take tizanidine tablets with antihypertensive medications for hypotension. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Fluvoxamine Concomitant use of fluvoxamine and Tizanidine Tablets, USP is contraindicated. Changes in pharmacokinetics of tizanidine when administered with fluvoxamine resulted in significantly decreased blood pressure, increased drowsiness, and increased psychomotor impairment. [ see Contraindications (4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] 7.2 Ciprofloxacin Concomitant use of ciprofoxacin and Tizanidine Tablets, USP is contraindicated. Changes in pharmacokinetics of tizanidine when administered with ciprofloxacin resulted in significantly decreased blood pressure, increased drowsiness, and increased psychomotor impairment. [ see Contraindications (4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] 7.3 CYP1A2 Inhibitors other than Fluvoxamine and Ciprofloxacin Because of potential drug interactions, concomitant use of Tizanidine Tablets, USP with other CYP1A2 inhibitors, such as zileuton, fluoroquinolones other than strong CYP1A2 inhibitors (which are contraindicated), antiarrythmics (amiodarone, mexiletine, propafenone, and verapamil), cimetidine, famotidine, oral contraceptives, acyclovir, and ticlopidine) should be avoided. If their use is clinically necessary, therapy should be initiated with 2 mg dose and increased in 2–4 mg steps daily based on patient response to therapy. If adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur, reduce or discontinue Tizanidine Tablets, USP therapy. [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] 7.4 Oral Contraceptives Concomitant use of Tizanidine Tablets, USP with oral contraceptives is not recommended. However, if concomitant use is clinically necessary, initiate Tizanidine Tablets, USP with a single 2 mg dose and increase in 2–4 mg steps daily based on patient response to therapy. [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] 7.5 Alcohol Alcohol increases the overall amount of drug in the bloodstream after a dose of Tizanidine Tablets, USP. This was associated with an increase in adverse reactions of Tizanidine Tablets, USP. The CNS depressant effects of Tizanidine Tablets, USP and alcohol are additive. [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] 7.6 Other CNS Depressants The sedative effects of Tizanidine Tablets, USP with CNS depressants (e.g., benzodiazepines, opioids, tricyclic antidepressants) may be additive. Monitor patients who take Tizanidine Tablets, USP with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation. [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] 7.7 α 2 -adrenergic agonists Because hypotensive effects may be cumulative, it is not recommended that Tizanidine Tablets, USP be used with other α 2 -adrenergic agonists. [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Fluvoxamine Concomitant use of fluvoxamine and Zanaflex is contraindicated. Changes in pharmacokinetics of tizanidine when administered with fluvoxamine resulted in significantly decreased blood pressure, increased drowsiness, and increased psychomotor impairment [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.2 Ciprofloxacin Concomitant use of ciprofloxacin and Zanaflex is contraindicated. Changes in pharmacokinetics of tizanidine when administered with ciprofloxacin resulted in significantly decreased blood pressure, increased drowsiness, and increased psychomotor impairment [see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.3 CYP1A2 Inhibitors other than Fluvoxamine and Ciprofloxacin Because of potential drug interactions, concomitant use of Zanaflex with other CYP1A2 inhibitors, such as zileuton, fluoroquinolones other than strong CYP1A2 inhibitors (which are contraindicated), antiarrhythmics (amiodarone, mexiletine, propafenone, and verapamil), cimetidine, famotidine, oral contraceptives, acyclovir, and ticlopidine) should be avoided. If adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur, reduce or discontinue Zanaflex therapy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.4 Oral Contraceptives Concomitant use of Zanaflex with oral contraceptives is not recommended. However, if concomitant use is clinically necessary, initiate Zanaflex with a single 2 mg dose and increase in 2–4 mg steps daily based on patient response to therapy. If adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur, reduce or discontinue Zanaflex therapy [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.5 Alcohol Alcohol increases the overall amount of drug in the bloodstream after a dose of Zanaflex. This was associated with an increase in adverse reactions of Zanaflex. The CNS depressant effects of Zanaflex and alcohol are additive [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.6 Other CNS Depressants The sedative effects of Zanaflex with CNS depressants (e.g., benzodiazepines, opioids, tricyclic antidepressants) may be additive. Monitor patients who take Zanaflex with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.7 α 2 -Adrenergic Agonists Because hypotensive effects may be cumulative, it is not recommended that Zanaflex be used with other α 2 -adrenergic agonists [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . 7.5 α2-Adrenergic Agonists Concomitant use of tizanidine with other α2-adrenergic agonists is not recommended because hypotensive effects may be cumulative [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. 7.6 Antihypertensive Medications Concomitant use of tizanidine with antihypertensive medications may cause additive hypotensive effects [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Monitor patients who take tizanidine with antihypertensive medications for hypotension. 7.1 Fluvoxamine Concomitant use of fluvoxamine and tizanidine is contraindicated. Changes in pharmacokinetics of tizanidine when administered with fluvoxamine resulted in significantly decreased blood pressure, increased drowsiness, and increased psychomotor impairment [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4) AND CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. Changes in pharmacokinetics of tizanidine when administered with ciprofloxacin resulted in significantly decreased blood pressure, increased drowsiness, and increased psychomotor impairment [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. If adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur, reduce or discontinue tizanidine therapy [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.5) and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. If adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur, reduce or discontinue tizanidine therapy [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. 7.5 Alcohol Alcohol increases the overall amount of drug in the bloodstream after a dose of tizanidine hydrochloride. The CNS depressant effects of tizanidine and alcohol are additive [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. Monitor patients who take tizanidine with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY (12.3)]. 7.7 Alpha2 -Adrenergic Agonists Because hypotensive effects may be cumulative, it is not recommended that tizanidine be used with other α2-adrenergic agonists [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.1)]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Strong CYP1A2 Inhibitors Concomitant use of tizanidine with strong cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2) inhibitors (e.g., fluvoxamine, ciprofloxacin) is contraindicated. Changes in pharmacokinetics of tizanidine when administered with a strong CYP1A2 inhibitor resulted in significantly decreased blood pressure, increased drowsiness, and increased psychomotor impairment [see Contraindications (4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. If concomitant use is clinically necessary, and adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur, reduce tizanidine dosage or discontinue tizanidine therapy [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. However, if concomitant use is clinically necessary and adverse reactions such as hypotension, bradycardia, or excessive drowsiness occur, reduce or discontinue tizanidine therapy [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Monitor patients who take tizanidine with another CNS depressant for symptoms of excess sedation [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.5 a 2 -Adrenergic Agonists Concomitant use of tizanidine with other α 2 -adrenergic agonists is not recommended because hypotensive effects may be cumulative [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7.6 Antihypertensive Medications Concomitant use of tizanidine with antihypertensive medications may cause additive hypotensive effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] .

=== TORSEMIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Torsemide is a loop diuretic indicated for: the treatment of edema associated with heart failure, renal disease or hepatic disease. ( 1.1 ) the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Edema Torsemide tablets are indicated for the treatment of edema associated with heart failure, renal disease or hepatic disease. 1.2 Hypertension Torsemide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including the class to which this drug principally belongs. There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with torsemide. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. The antihypertensive effects of torsemide are on the average greater in black patients than in nonblack patients [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. Torsemide can be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Torsemide tablets are a loop diuretic indicated for: • the treatment of edema associated with heart failure, renal disease or hepatic disease. (1.1) • the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. (1.2) 1.1 Edema Torsemide tablets are indicated for the treatment of edema associated with heart failure, renal disease or hepatic disease. The antihypertensive effects of torsemide tablets are on the average greater in black patients than in nonblack patients [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)] . Torsemide tablets can be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with torsemide tablets. The antihypertensive effects of torsemide tablets are on the average greater in black patients than in nonblack patients [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Edema Torsemide is indicated for the treatment of edema associated with heart failure, renal disease, or hepatic disease. 1.2 Hypertension Torsemide is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. The antihypertensive effects of torsemide are on the average greater in black patients than in nonblack patients [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) ].
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Edema associated with: Heart failure: Initial dose is 10 or 20 mg once daily. Titrate by factors of two; doses above 200 mg have not been studied. ( 2.1 ) Chronic Renal Failure: Initial dose is 20 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) Hepatic Cirrhosis: Initial dose is 5 or 10 mg once daily. Titrate by factors of two; doses above 40 mg have not been studied. ( 2.1 ) Hypertension: The recommended initial dose is 5 mg once daily. After 4 to 6 weeks, increase to 10 mg once daily, if needed. If 10 mg is insufficient, consider adding another agent. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Treatment of Edema Edema associated with heart failure The recommended initial dose is 10 mg or 20 mg oral torsemide once daily. If the diuretic response is inadequate, titrate upward by approximately doubling until the desired diuretic response is obtained. Doses higher than 200 mg have not been adequately studied. Edema associated with chronic renal failure The recommended initial dose is 20 mg oral torsemide once daily. Edema associated with hepatic cirrhosis The recommended initial dose is 5 mg or 10 mg oral torsemide once daily, administered together with an aldosterone antagonist or a potassium-sparing diuretic. Doses higher than 40 mg have not been adequately studied in this population. 2.2 Treatment of Hypertension The recommended initial dose is 5 mg once daily. If the 5 mg dose does not provide adequate reduction in blood pressure within 4 to 6 weeks, increase to 10 mg once daily. If the response to 10 mg is insufficient, add another antihypertensive agent to the treatment regimen. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Edema associated with: • Heart failure: Initial dose is 10 or 20 mg once daily. (2.1) • Chronic Renal Failure: Initial dose is 20 mg once daily. (2.1) • Hepatic Cirrhosis: Initial dose is 5 or 10 mg once daily. (2.1) Hypertension: • The recommended initial dose is 5 mg once daily. (2.2) 2.1 Treatment of Edema Edema associated with heart failure The recommended initial dose is 10 mg or 20 mg oral torsemide tablets once daily. Edema associated with chronic renal failure The recommended initial dose is 20 mg oral torsemide tablets once daily. Edema associated with hepatic cirrhosis The recommended initial dose is 5 mg or 10 mg oral torsemide tablets once daily, administered together with an aldosterone antagonist or a potassium-sparing diuretic. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Edema associated with: Heart failure: Initial dose is 10 mg or 20 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) Hepatic Cirrhosis: Initial dose is 5 mg or 10 mg once daily. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Treatment of Edema Edema associated with heart failure The recommended initial dose is 10 mg or 20 mg oral torsemide tablets once daily.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Torsemide is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to torsemide or to povidone. Torsemide is contraindicated in patients who are anuric. Torsemide is contraindicated in patients with hepatic coma. Hypersensitivity to torsemide or povidone, anuria, and hepatic coma. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Torsemide tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to torsemide tablets or to povidone. Torsemide tablets are contraindicated in patients who are anuric. Torsemide tablets are contraindicated in patients with hepatic coma. Hypersensitivity to torsemide tablets or povidone, anuria, and hepatic coma. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Torsemide tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to torsemide or to povidone.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs): Reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects; risk of renal impairment. ( 7.1 ) CYP2C9: Concomitant use with CYP2C9 inhibitors can decrease torsemide clearance. Torsemide may affect the efficacy and safety of sensitive CYP2C9 substrates or of substrates with a narrow therapeutic range, such as warfarin or phenytoin. ( 7.2 ) Cholestyramine: Decreased exposure of torsemide. ( 7.3 ) Organic anion drugs: may decrease diuretic activity of torsemide. ( 7.4 ) Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity ( 7.5 ) Renin-angiotensin inhibitors: Increased risk of hypotension and renal impairment. ( 7.7 ) Radiocontrast agents: Increased risk of renal toxicity. ( 7.8 ) Corticosteroids and ACTH: Increased risk of hypokalemia. ( 7.9 ) 7.1 Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs Because torsemide and salicylates compete for secretion by renal tubules, patients receiving high doses of salicylates may experience salicylate toxicity when torsemide is concomitantly administered. Concomitant use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and torsemide has been associated with the development of acute renal failure. The antihypertensive and diuretic effects of torsemide can be reduced by NSAIDs. Partial inhibition of the natriuretic effect of torsemide by concomitant administration of indomethacin has been demonstrated for torsemide under conditions of dietary sodium restriction (50 mEq/day) but not in the presence of normal sodium intake (150 mEq/day). 7.2 Cytochrome P450 2C9 Inhibitors and Inducers Torsemide is a substrate of CYP2C9. Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g., amiodarone, fluconazole, miconazole, oxandrolone) can decrease torsemide clearance and increase torsemide plasma concentrations. Concomitant use of CYP2C9 inducers (e.g., rifampin) increase torsemide clearance and decrease plasma torsemide concentrations. Monitor diuretic effect and blood pressure when used in combination with CYP2C9 inhibitor or inducer. Adjust torsemide dose if necessary. Because of its inhibition of CYP2C9 metabolism, torsemide may affect the efficacy and safety of sensitive CYP2C9 substrates, such as celecoxib, or of substrates with a narrow therapeutic range, such as warfarin or phenytoin. Monitor patients and adjust dosages if necessary. 7.3 Cholestyramine Concomitant use of torsemide and cholestyramine has not been studied in humans but, in a study in animals, coadministration of cholestyramine decreased the absorption of orally administered torsemide. If torsemide and cholestyramine should be coadministered, administer torsemide at least one hour before or 4 to 6 h after cholestyramine administration. 7.4 Organic Anion Drugs Coadministration of organic anion drugs (e.g., probenecid) that undergo significant renal tubular secretion have the potential to reduce secretion of torsemide into the proximal tubule and thereby decreases the diuretic activity of torsemide. Monitor diuretic effect and blood pressure during coadministration. 7.5 Lithium Like other diuretics, torsemide reduces the renal clearance of lithium, inducing a high risk of lithium toxicity. Monitor lithium levels periodically when torsemide is coadministered. 7.6 Ototoxic Drugs Loop diuretics increase the ototoxic potential of other ototoxic drugs, including aminoglycoside antibiotics and ethacrynic acid. This effect has been reported with concomitant use of torsemide and gentamycin. Avoid concomitant use of torsemide and aminoglycoside antibiotics, if possible. 7.7 Renin-angiotensin Inhibitors Coadministration of torsemide with ACE inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers can increase the risk of hypotension and renal impairment. 7.8 Radiocontrast Agents Torsemide can increase the risk of renal toxicity related to administration of radiocontrast agents. 7.9 Corticosteroids and ACTH Concomitant use with torsemide may increase risk of hypokalemia 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs): Reduced diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects; risk of renal impairment. (7.1) • CYP2C9: Concomitant use with CYP2C9 inhibitors can decrease torsemide clearance. (7.2) • Cholestyramine: Decreased exposure of torsemide. (7.3) • Organic anion drugs: may decrease diuretic activity of torsemide. (7.4) • Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity (7.5) • Renin-angiotensin inhibitors: Increased risk of hypotension and renal impairment. (7.7) • Radiocontrast agents: Increased risk of renal toxicity. (7.8) • Corticosteroids and ACTH: Increased risk of hypokalemia. (7.9) 7.1 Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs Because torsemide and salicylates compete for secretion by renal tubules, patients receiving high doses of salicylates may experience salicylate toxicity when torsemide is concomitantly administered. ( 7.4 ) Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity. ( 7.5 ) Renin-Angiotensin Inhibitors: Increased risk of hypotension and renal impairment. 7.7 Renin Angiotensin Inhibitors Coadministration of torsemide with ACE inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers can increase the risk of hypotension and renal impairment. 7.9 Corticosteroids and ACTH Concomitant use with torsemide may increase risk of hypokalemia.

=== ZONISAMIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Zonisamide capsules are indicated as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial seizures in adults with epilepsy. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Zonisamide is indicated as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial seizures in adults with epilepsy.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Zonisamide capsules are recommended as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial seizures in adults. Safety and efficacy in pediatric patients below the age of 16 have not been established. Zonisamide capsules should be administered once or twice daily, using 25 mg, 50 mg or 100 mg capsules. Zonisamide capsules are given orally and can be taken with or without food. Capsules should be swallowed whole. Adults over Age 16 The prescriber should be aware that, because of the long half-life of zonisamide, up to two weeks may be required to achieve steady state levels upon reaching a stable dose or following dosage adjustment. Although the regimen described below is one that has been shown to be tolerated, the prescriber may wish to prolong the duration of treatment at the lower doses in order to fully assess the effects of zonisamide at steady state, noting that many of the side effects of zonisamide are more frequent at doses of 300 mg per day and above. Although there is some evidence of greater response at doses above 100-200 mg/day, the increase appears small and formal dose-response studies have not been conducted. The initial dose of zonisamide should be 100 mg daily. After two weeks, the dose may be increased to 200 mg/day for at least two weeks. It can be increased to 300 mg/day and 400 mg/day, with the dose stable for at least two weeks to achieve steady state at each level. Evidence from controlled trials suggests that zonisamide doses of 100-600 mg/day are effective, but there is no suggestion of increasing response above 400 mg/day (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Clinical Studies subsection ). There is little experience with doses greater than 600 mg/day. Patients with Renal or Hepatic Disease Because zonisamide is metabolized in the liver and excreted by the kidneys, patients with renal or hepatic disease should be treated with caution, and might require slower titration and more frequent monitoring (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and PRECAUTIONS ). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Zonisamide, USP is recommended as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial seizures in adults. Zonisamide should be administered once or twice daily, using 25 mg or 100 mg capsules. Zonisamide is given orally and can be taken with or without food. Adults over Age 16: The prescriber should be aware that, because of the long half-life of zonisamide, up to two weeks may be required to achieve steady state levels upon reaching a stable dose or following dosage adjustment. Although there is some evidence of greater response at doses above 100 to 200 mg/day, the increase appears small and formal dose-response studies have not been conducted. Evidence from controlled trials suggests that zonisamide doses of 100 to 600 mg/day are effective, but there is no suggestion of increasing response above 400 mg/day (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Clinical Studies subsection). Patients with Renal or Hepatic Disease: Because zonisamide is metabolized in the liver and excreted by the kidneys, patients with renal or hepatic disease should be treated with caution, and might require slower titration and more frequent monitoring (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and PRECAUTIONS ). The initial dose of Zonisamide Capsules should be 100 mg daily. Evidence from controlled trials suggests that Zonisamide Capsules doses of 100–600 mg/day are effective, but there is no suggestion of increasing response above 400 mg/day (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Clinical Studies subsection). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Zonisamide capsules USP are recommended as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial seizures in adults. Zonisamide capsules USP should be administered once or twice daily, using 25 mg or 100 mg capsules. Zonisamide capsules USP are given orally and can be taken with or without food. Evidence from controlled trials suggests that zonisamide doses of 100 to 600 mg/day are effective, but there is no suggestion of increasing response above 400 mg/day (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Clinical Studies subsection). Zonisamide should be administered once or twice daily, using 25 mg, 50 mg or 100 mg capsules.
Warnings: WARNINGS Potentially Fatal Reactions to Sulfonamides: Fatalities have occurred, although rarely, as a result of severe reactions to sulfonamides (zonisamide is a sulfonamide) including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, fulminant hepatic necrosis, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and other blood dyscrasias. Such reactions may occur when a sulfonamide is readministered irrespective of the route of administration. If signs of hypersensitivity or other serious reactions occur, discontinue zonisamide immediately. Specific experience with sulfonamide-type adverse reaction to zonisamide is described below. Serious Skin Reactions Consideration should be given to discontinuing zonisamide in patients who develop an otherwise unexplained rash. If the drug is not discontinued, patients should be observed frequently. Seven deaths from severe rash [i.e., Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN)] were reported in the first 11 years of marketing in Japan. All of the patients were receiving other drugs in addition to zonisamide. In post-marketing experience from Japan, a total of 49 cases of SJS or TEN have been reported, a reporting rate of 46 per million patient-years of exposure. Although this rate is greater than background, it is probably an underestimate of the true incidence because of under-reporting. There were no confirmed cases of SJS or TEN in the U.S., European, or Japanese development programs. In the U.S. and European randomized controlled trials, 6 of 269 (2.2%) zonisamide patients discontinued treatment because of rash compared to none on placebo. Across all trials during the U.S. and European development, rash that led to discontinuation of zonisamide was reported in 1.4% of patients (12 events per 1,000 patient-years of exposure). During Japanese development, serious rash or rash that led to study drug discontinuation was reported in 2% of patients (27.8 events per 1,000 patient years). Rash usually occurred early in treatment, with 85% reported within 16 weeks in the U.S. and European studies and 90% reported within two weeks in the Japanese studies. There was no apparent relationship of dose to the occurrence of rash. Serious Hematologic Events Two confirmed cases of aplastic anemia and one confirmed case of agranulocytosis were reported in the first 11 years of marketing in Japan, rates greater than generally accepted background rates. There were no cases of aplastic anemia and two confirmed cases of agranulocytosis in the U.S., European, or Japanese development programs. There is inadequate information to assess the relationship, if any, between dose and duration of treatment and these events. Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)/Multi-Organ Hypersensitivity Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), also known as multi-organ hypersensitivity, has occurred with zonisamide. Some of these events have been fatal or life-threatening. DRESS typically, although not exclusively, presents with fever, rash, lymphadenopathy and/or facial swelling, in association with other organ system involvement, such as hepatitis, nephritis, hematologic abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis, sometimes resembling an acute viral infection. Eosinophilia is often present. This disorder is variable in its expression, and other organ systems not noted here may be involved. It is important to note that early manifestations of hypersensitivity (e.g., fever, lymphadenopathy) may be present even though rash is not evident. If such signs or symptoms are present, the patient should be evaluated immediately. Zonisamide should be discontinued if an alternative etiology for the signs or symptoms cannot be established. Oligohidrosis and Hyperthermia in Pediatric Patients Oligohidrosis, sometimes resulting in heat stroke and hospitalization, is seen in association with zonisamide in pediatric patients. During the pre-approval development program in Japan, one case of oligohidrosis was reported in 403 pediatric patients, an incidence of 1 case per 285 patient - years of exposure. While there were no cases reported in the U.S. or European development programs, fewer than 100 pediatric patients participated in these trials. In the first 11 years of marketing in Japan, 38 cases were reported, an estimated reporting rate of about 1 case per 10,000 patient-years of exposure. In the first year of marketing in the U.S., 2 cases were reported, an estimated reporting rate of about 12 cases per 10,000 patient-years of exposure. These rates are underestimates of the true incidence because of under-reporting. There has also been one report of heat stroke in an 18-year-old patient in the U.S. Decreased sweating and an elevation in body temperature above normal characterized these cases. Many cases were reported after exposure to elevated environmental temperatures. Heat stroke, requiring hospitalization, was diagnosed in some cases. There have been no reported deaths. Pediatric patients appear to be at an increased risk for zonisamide-associated oligohidrosis and hyperthermia. Patients, especially pediatric patients, treated with zonisamide should be monitored closely for evidence of decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in warm or hot weather. Caution should be used when zonisamide is prescribed with other drugs that predispose patients to heat-related disorders; these drugs include, but are not limited to, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors and drugs with anticholinergic activity. The practitioner should be aware that the safety and effectiveness of zonisamide in pediatric patients have not been established, and that zonisamide is not approved for use in pediatric patients. Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle Closure Glaucoma Acute myopia and secondary angle closure glaucoma have been reported in patients receiving zonisamide. Elevated intraocular pressure can lead to serious sequelae, including permanent vision loss, if left untreated. Symptoms in reported cases have included acute onset of decreased visual acuity and/or ocular pain. Ophthalmologic findings can include myopia, anterior chamber shallowing, ocular hyperemia (redness), and increased intraocular pressure. Mydriasis may or may not be present. This syndrome may be associated with ciliochoroidal effusion resulting in anterior displacement of the lens and iris, with secondary angle closure glaucoma. Symptoms typically occur within one month after initiating zonisamide therapy. In contrast to primary narrow angle glaucoma, which is rare under 40 years of age, secondary angle closure glaucoma associated with zonisamide has been reported both in pediatric patients and in adults. The primary treatment to reverse symptoms is discontinuation of zonisamide as rapidly as possible, according to the judgment of the treating physician. Other therapeutic measures, in conjunction with discontinuation of zonisamide, may be helpful. Myopia and secondary angle closure glaucoma usually resolve or improve after discontinuation of zonisamide. Suicidal Behavior and Ideation Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), including zonisamide, increase the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior in patients taking these drugs for any indication. Patients treated with any AED for any indication should be monitored for the emergence or worsening of depression, suicidal thoughts or behavior, and/or any unusual changes in mood or behavior. Pooled analyses of 199 placebo-controlled clinical trials (mono- and adjunctive therapy) of 11 different AEDs showed that patients randomized to one of the AEDs had approximately twice the risk (adjusted Relative Risk 1.8, 95% CI:1.2, 2.7) of suicidal thinking or behavior compared to patients randomized to placebo. In these trials, which had a median treatment duration of 12 weeks, the estimated incidence rate of suicidal behavior or ideation among 27,863 AED-treated patients was 0.43%, compared to 0.24% among 16,029 placebo-treated patients, representing an increase of approximately one case of suicidal thinking or behavior for every 530 patients treated. There were four suicides in drug-treated patients in the trials and none in placebo-treated patients, but the number is too small to allow any conclusion about drug effect on suicide. The increased risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior with AEDs was observed as early as one week after starting drug treatment with AEDs and persisted for the duration of treatment assessed. Because most trials included in the analysis did not extend beyond 24 weeks, the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior beyond 24 weeks could not be assessed. The risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior was generally consistent among drugs in the data analyzed. The finding of increased risk with AEDs of varying mechanisms of action and across a range of indications suggests that the risk applies to all AEDs used for any indication. The risk did not vary substantially by age (5 years to 100 years) in the clinical trials analyzed. Table 3 shows absolute and relative risk by indication for all evaluated AEDs. Table 3 Risk by indication for antiepileptic drugs in the pooled analysis Indication Placebo Patients with Events Per 1,000 Patients Drug Patients with Events Per 1,000 Patients Relative Risk: Incidence of Events in Drug Patients/Incidence in Placebo Patients Risk Difference: Additional Drug Patients with Events Per 1,000 Patients Epilepsy 1 3.4 3.5 2.4 Psychiatric 5.7 8.5 1.5 2.9 Other 1 1.8 1.9 0.9 Total 2.4 4.3 1.8 1.9 The relative risk for suicidal thoughts or behavior was higher in clinical trials for epilepsy than in clinical trials for psychiatric or other conditions, but the absolute risk differences were similar for the epilepsy and psychiatric indications. Anyone considering prescribing zonisamide or any other AED must balance the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior with the risk of untreated illness. Epilepsy and many other illnesses for which AEDs are prescribed are themselves associated with morbidity and mortality and an increased risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior. Should suicidal thoughts and behavior emerge during treatment, the prescriber needs to consider whether the emergence of these symptoms in any given patient may be related to the illness being treated. Patients, their caregivers, and families should be informed that AEDs increase the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior and should be advised of the need to be alert for the emergence or worsening of the signs and symptoms of depression, any unusual changes in mood or behavior, or the emergence of suicidal thoughts, behavior, or thoughts about self-harm. Behaviors of concern should be reported immediately to healthcare providers (see WARNINGS, Cognitive/Neuropsychiatric Adverse Events subsection below). Metabolic Acidosis Zonisamide causes hyperchloremic, non-anion gap, metabolic acidosis (i.e., decreased serum bicarbonate below the normal reference range in the absence of chronic respiratory alkalosis) (see PRECAUTIONS , Laboratory Tests subsection). This metabolic acidosis is caused by renal bicarbonate loss due to the inhibitory effect of zonisamide on carbonic anhydrase. Generally, zonisamide-induced metabolic acidosis occurs early in treatment, but it can develop at any time during treatment. Metabolic acidosis generally appears to be dose-dependent and can occur at doses as low as 25 mg daily. Conditions or therapies that predispose to acidosis (such as renal disease, severe respiratory disorders, status epilepticus, diarrhea, ketogenic diet, or specific drugs) may be additive to the bicarbonate lowering effects of zonisamide. Some manifestations of acute or chronic metabolic acidosis include hyperventilation, nonspecific symptoms such as fatigue and anorexia, or more severe sequelae including cardiac arrhythmias or stupor. Chronic, untreated, metabolic acidosis may increase the risk for nephrolithiasis or nephrocalcinosis. Nephrolithiasis has been observed in the clinical development program in 4 % of adults treated with zonisamide, has also been detected by renal ultrasound in 8 % of pediatric treated patients who had at least one ultrasound prospectively collected, and was reported as an adverse event in 3 % (4/133) of pediatric patients (see PRECAUTIONS , Kidney Stones subsection). Metabolic acidosis can also increase the risk for hyperammonemia, particularly in the presence of drugs which can cause hyperammonemia. Chronic, untreated metabolic acidosis may result in osteomalacia (referred to as rickets in pediatric patients) and/or osteoporosis with an increased risk for fracture. Of potential relevance, zonisamide treatment was associated with reductions in serum phosphorus and increases in serum alkaline phosphatase, changes that may be related to metabolic acidosis and osteomalacia (see PRECAUTIONS , Laboratory Tests subsection). Chronic, untreated metabolic acidosis in pediatric patients may reduce growth rates. A reduction in growth rate may eventually decrease the maximal height achieved. The effect of zonisamide on growth and bone-related sequelae has not been systematically investigated. Measurement of baseline and periodic serum bicarbonate during treatment is recommended. If metabolic acidosis develops and persists, consideration should be given to reducing the dose or discontinuing zonisamide (using dose tapering). If the decision is made to continue patients on zonisamide in the face of persistent acidosis, alkali treatment should be considered. Serum bicarbonate was not measured in the adjunctive controlled trials of adults with epilepsy. However, serum bicarbonate was studied in three clinical trials for indications which have not been approved: a placebo-controlled trial for migraine prophylaxis in adults, a controlled trial for monotherapy in epilepsy in adults, and an open label trial for adjunctive treatment of epilepsy in pediatric patients (3 years to 16 years). In adults, mean serum bicarbonate reductions ranged from approximately 2 mEq/L at daily doses of 100 mg to nearly 4 mEq/L at daily doses of 300 mg. In pediatric patients, mean serum bicarbonate reductions ranged from approximately 2 mEq/L at daily doses from above 100 mg up to 300 mg, to nearly 4 mEq/L at daily doses from above 400 mg up to 600 mg. In two controlled studies in adults, the incidence of a persistent treatment-emergent decrease in serum bicarbonate to less than 20 mEq/L (observed at 2 or more consecutive visits or the final visit) was dose-related at relatively low zonisamide doses. In the monotherapy trial of epilepsy, the incidence of a persistent treatment-emergent decrease in serum bicarbonate was 21% for daily zonisamide doses of 25 mg or 100 mg, and was 43% at a daily dose of 300 mg. In a placebo-controlled trial for prophylaxis of migraine, the incidence of a persistent treatment-emergent decrease in serum bicarbonate was 7% for placebo, 29% for 150 mg daily, and 34% for 300 mg daily. The incidence of persistent markedly abnormally low serum bicarbonate (decrease to less than 17 mEq/L and more than 5 mEq/L from a pretreatment value of at least 20 mEq/L) in these controlled trials was 2% or less. In the pediatric study, the incidence of persistent, treatment-emergent decreases in serum bicarbonate to levels less than 20 mEq/L was 52% at doses up to 100 mg daily, was 90% for a wide range of doses up to 600 mg daily, and generally appeared to increase with higher doses. The incidence of a persistent markedly abnormally low serum bicarbonate value was 4 % at doses up to 100 mg daily, was 18% for a wide range of doses up to 600 mg daily, and generally appeared to increase with higher doses. Some patients experienced moderately severe serum bicarbonate decrements down to a level as low as 10 mEq/L. The relatively high frequencies of varying severities of metabolic acidosis observed in this study of pediatric patients (compared to the frequency and severity observed in various clinical trial development programs in adults) suggest that pediatric patients may be more likely to develop metabolic acidosis than adults. Seizures on Withdrawal As with other AEDs, abrupt withdrawal of zonisamide in patients with epilepsy may precipitate increased seizure frequency or status epilepticus. Dose reduction or discontinuation of zonisamide should be done gradually. Teratogenicity Women of child bearing potential who are given zonisamide should be advised to use effective contraception. Zonisamide was teratogenic in mice, rats, and dogs and embryolethal in monkeys when administered during the period of organogenesis. A variety of fetal abnormalities, including cardiovascular defects, and embryo-fetal deaths occurred at maternal plasma levels similar to or lower than therapeutic levels in humans. These findings suggest that the use of zonisamide during pregnancy in humans may present a significant risk to the fetus (see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy subsection ). Zonisamide should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Cognitive/ Neuropsychiatric Adverse Events Use of zonisamide was frequently associated with central nervous system-related adverse events. The most significant of these can be classified into three general categories: 1) psychiatric symptoms, including depression and psychosis, 2) psychomotor slowing, difficulty with concentration, and speech or language problems, in particular, word-finding difficulties, and 3) somnolence or fatigue. In placebo-controlled trials, 2.2% of patients discontinued zonisamide or were hospitalized for depression compared to 0.4% of placebo patients. Among all epilepsy patients treated with zonisamide, 1.4% were discontinued and 1.0% were hospitalized because of reported depression or suicide attempts. In placebo-controlled trials, 2.2% of patients discontinued zonisamide or were hospitalized due to psychosis or psychosis-related symptoms compared to none of the placebo patients. Among all epilepsy patients treated with zonisamide, 0.9% were discontinued and 1.4% were hospitalized because of reported psychosis or related symptoms. Psychomotor slowing and difficulty with concentration occurred in the first month of treatment and were associated with doses above 300 mg/day. Speech and language problems tended to occur after 6 to 10 weeks of treatment and at doses above 300 mg/day. Although in most cases these events were of mild to moderate severity, they at times led to withdrawal from treatment. Somnolence and fatigue were frequently reported CNS adverse events during clinical trials with zonisamide. Although in most cases these events were of mild to moderate severity, they led to withdrawal from treatment in 0.2% of the patients enrolled in controlled trials. Somnolence and fatigue tended to occur within the first month of treatment. Somnolence and fatigue occurred most frequently at doses of 300 mg/day to 500 mg/day. Patients should be cautioned about this possibility and special care should be taken by patients if they drive, operate machinery, or perform any hazardous task. Hyperammonemia and Encephalopathy Hyperammonemia and encephalopathy have been reported with the postmarketing use of zonisamide. Zonisamide treatment inhibits carbonic anhydrase activity, which may cause metabolic acidosis that is associated with an increased risk for developing hyperammonemia. Hyperammonemia resulting from zonisamide can also be asymptomatic. The risks of hyperammonemia and various manifestations of encephalopathy may be increased in patients treated with zonisamide and concomitantly taking other medications that can cause hyperammonemia, including valproic acid or topiramate (see PRECAUTIONS ). Patients with inborn errors of metabolism or reduced hepatic mitochondrial activity may be at an increased risk for hyperammonemia with or without encephalopathy and this risk may be increased by zonisamide use. Measure serum ammonia concentration if signs or symptoms (e.g., unexplained change in mental status, vomiting, or lethargy) of encephalopathy occur. Hyperammonemia resulting from zonisamide resolves when zonisamide is discontinued. Hyperammonemia from zonisamide may resolve or decrease in severity with a decrease of the daily dose. Serious Skin Reactions: Consideration should be given to discontinuing zonisamide in patients who develop an otherwise unexplained rash. There were no confirmed cases of SJS or TEN in the US, European, or Japanese development programs. In the US and European randomized controlled trials, 6 of 269 (2.2%) zonisamide patients discontinued treatment because of rash compared to none on placebo. Across all trials during the US and European development, rash that led to discontinuation of zonisamide was reported in 1.4% of patients (12.0 events per 1000 patient-years of exposure). During Japanese development, serious rash or rash that led to study drug discontinuation was reported in 2.0% of patients (27.8 events per 1000 patient-years). Rash usually occurred early in treatment, with 85% reported within 16 weeks in the US and European studies and 90% reported within two weeks in the Japanese studies. Serious Hematologic Events: Two confirmed cases of aplastic anemia and one confirmed case of agranulocytosis were reported in the first 11 years of marketing in Japan, rates greater than generally accepted background rates. There were no cases of aplastic anemia and two confirmed cases of agranulocytosis in the US, European, or Japanese development programs. Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)/Multi-Organ Hypersensitivity: Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), also known as multi-organ hypersensitivity, has occurred with zonisamide. Oligohidrosis and Hyperthermia in Pediatric Patients: Oligohidrosis, sometimes resulting in heat stroke and hospitalization, is seen in association with zonisamide in pediatric patients. During the pre-approval development program in Japan, one case of oligohidrosis was reported in 403 pediatric patients, an incidence of 1 case per 285 patient-years of exposure. While there were no cases reported in the US or European development programs, fewer than 100 pediatric patients participated in these trials. In the first year of marketing in the US, 2 cases were reported, an estimated reporting rate of about 12 cases per 10,000 patient-years of exposure. There has also been one report of heat stroke in an 18-year-old patient in the US. Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle Closure Glaucoma: Acute myopia and secondary angle closure glaucoma have been reported in patients receiving zonisamide capsules. symptoms typically occur within one month after initiating zonisamide capsules therapy. In contrast to primary narrow angle glaucoma, which is rare under 40 years of age, secondary angle closure glaucoma associated with zonisamide capsules has been reported both in pediatric patients and in adults. The primary treatment to reverse symptoms is discontinuation of zonisamide capsules as rapidly as possible, according to the judgment of the treating physician. Other therapeutic measures, in conjunction with discontinuation of zonisamide capsules, may be helpful. Myopia and secondary angle closure glaucoma usually resolve or improve after discontinuation of zonisamide capsules. Suicidal Behavior and Ideation: Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), including zonisamide, increase the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior in patients taking these drugs for any indication. The risk did not vary substantially by age (5 to 100 years) in the clinical trials analyzed. Table 3: Risk by indication for antiepileptic drugs in the pooled analysis Indication Placebo Patients with Events Per 1000 Patients Drug Patients with Events Per 1000 Patients Relative Risk: Incidence of Events in Drug Patients/Incidence in Placebo Patients Risk Difference: Additional Drug Patients with Events Per 1000 Patients Epilepsy 1.0 3.4 3.5 2.4 Psychiatric 5.7 8.5 1.5 2.9 Other 1.0 1.8 1.9 0.9 Total 2.4 4.3 1.8 1.9 The relative risk for suicidal thoughts or behavior was higher in clinical trials for epilepsy than in clinical trials for psychiatric or other conditions, but the absolute risk differences were similar for the epilepsy and psychiatric indications. Behaviors of concern should be reported immediately to healthcare providers (see WARNINGS , Cognitive/Neuropsychiatric Adverse Events subsection below). Metabolic Acidosis: Zonisamide causes hyperchloremic, non-anion gap, metabolic acidosis (i.e., decreased serum bicarbonate below the normal reference range in the absence of chronic respiratory alkalosis) (see PRECAUTIONS , Laboratory Tests subsection). However, serum bicarbonate was studied in three clinical trials for indications which have not been approved: a placebo-controlled trial for migraine prophylaxis in adults, a controlled trial for monotherapy in epilepsy in adults, and an open label trial for adjunctive treatment of epilepsy in pediatric patients (3 to 16 years). The incidence of persistent markedly abnormally low serum bicarbonate (decrease to less than 17 mEq/L and more than 5 mEq/L from a pretreatment value of at least 20 mEq/L in these controlled trials was 2% or less. Seizures on Withdrawal: As with other AEDs, abrupt withdrawal of zonisamide in patients with epilepsy may precipitate increased seizure frequency or status epilepticus. Teratogenicity: Women of child bearing potential who are given zonisamide should be advised to use effective contraception. These findings suggest that the use of zonisamide during pregnancy in humans may present a significant risk to the fetus (see PRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy subsection). Cognitive/ Neuropsychiatric Adverse Events: Use of zonisamide was frequently associated with central nervous system-related adverse events. Somnolence and fatigue occurred most frequently at doses of 300 to 500 mg/day. Hyperammonemia and Encephalopathy: Hyperammonemia and encephalopathy have been reported with the postmarketing use of zonisamide. Serious Skin Reactions: Consideration should be given to discontinuing Zonisamide Capsules in patients who develop an otherwise unexplained rash. Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)/Multi-Organ Hypersensitivity: Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), also known as multi-organ hypersensitivity, has occurred with Zonisamide Capsules. Zonisamide Capsules should be discontinued if an alternative etiology for the signs or symptoms cannot be established. Patients, especially pediatric patients, treated with Zonisamide Capsules should be monitored closely for evidence of decreased sweating and increased body temperature, especially in warm or hot weather. In contrast to primary narrow angle glaucoma, which is rare under 40 years of age, secondary angle closure glaucoma associated with Zonisamide Capsules have been reported both in pediatric patients and in adults. Suicidal Behavior and Ideation: Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), including Zonisamide Capsules, increase the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior in patients taking these drugs for any indication. Pooled analyses of 199 placebo-controlled clinical trials (mono-and adjunctive therapy) of 11 different AEDs showed that patients randomized to one of the AEDs had approximately twice the risk (adjusted Relative Risk 1.8, 95% CI:1.2, 2.7) of suicidal thinking or behavior compared to patients randomized to placebo. The risk did not vary substantially by age (5-100 years) in the clinical trials analyzed. Anyone considering prescribing Zonisamide Capsules or any other AED must balance the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior with the risk of untreated illness. Metabolic Acidosis: Zonisamide causes hyperchloremic, non-anion gap, metabolic acidosis (i.e., decreased serum bicarbonate below the normal reference range in the absence of chronic respiratory alkalosis) (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests subsection). Nephrolithiasis has been observed in the clinical development program in 4 % of adults treated with Zonisamide Capsules, has also been detected by renal ultrasound in 8 % of pediatric treated patients who had at least one ultrasound prospectively collected, and was reported as an adverse event in 3 % (4/133) of pediatric patients (see PRECAUTIONS, Kidney Stones subsection). Of potential relevance, zonisamide treatment was associated with reductions in serum phosphorus and increases in serum alkaline phosphatase, changes that may be related to metabolic acidosis and osteomalacia (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests subsection). However, serum bicarbonate was studied in three clinical trials for indications which have not been approved: a placebo-controlled trial for migraine prophylaxis in adults, a controlled trial for monotherapy in epilepsy in adults, and an open label trial for adjunctive treatment of epilepsy in pediatric patients (3-16 years). Seizures on Withdrawal: As with other AEDs, abrupt withdrawal of Zonisamide Capsules in patients with epilepsy may precipitate increased seizure frequency or status epilepticus. These findings suggest that the use of zonisamide during pregnancy in humans may present a significant risk to the fetus (see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy subsection). Zonisamide Capsules should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus. Cognitive/ Neuropsychiatric Adverse Events: Use of Zonisamide Capsules were frequently associated with central nervous system-related adverse events. In placebo-controlled trials, 2.2% of patients discontinued Zonisamide Capsules or were hospitalized for depression compared to 0.4% of placebo patients. Among all epilepsy patients treated with Zonisamide Capsules, 1.4% were discontinued and 1.0% were hospitalized because of reported depression or suicide attempts. In placebo-controlled trials, 2.2% of patients discontinued Zonisamide Capsules or were hospitalized due to psychosis or psychosis-related symptoms compared to none of the placebo patients. Among all epilepsy patients treated with Zonisamide Capsules, 0.9% were discontinued and 1.4% were hospitalized because of reported psychosis or related symptoms. Speech and language problems tended to occur after 6–10 weeks of treatment and at doses above 300 mg/day. Somnolence and fatigue were frequently reported CNS adverse events during clinical trials with Zonisamide Capsules. Somnolence and fatigue occurred most frequently at doses of 300-500 mg/day. Seven deaths from severe rash [i.e. Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN)] were reported in the first 11 years of marketing in Japan. Across all trials during the US and European development, rash that led to discontinuation of zonisamide was reported in 1.4% of patients (12 events per 1000 patient years of exposure). During Japanese development, serious rash or rash that led to study drug discontinuation was reported in 2% of patients (27.8 events per 1000 patient years). It is important to note that early manifestations of hypersensitivity (e.g. fever, lymphadenopathy) may be present even though rash is not evident. In the first 11 years of marketing in Japan, 38 cases were reported, an estimated reporting rate of about 1 case per 10,000 patient years of exposure. In the first year of marketing in the US, 2 cases were reported, an estimated reporting rate of about 12 cases per 10,000 patient years of exposure. Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle Closure Glaucoma: Acute myopia and secondary angle closure glaucoma have been reported in patients receiving zonisamide. Table 3: Risk by indication for antiepileptic drugs in the pooled analysis Indication Placebo Patients with Events per 1000 Patients Drug Patients with Events per 1000 Patients Relative Risk: Incidence of Events in Drug Patients/Incidence in Placebo Patients Risk Difference: Additional Drug Patients with Events per 1000 Patients Epilepsy 1 3.4 3.5 2.4 Psychiatric 5.7 8.5 1.5 2.9 Other 1 1.8 1.9 0.9 Total 2.4 4.3 1.8 1.9 The relative risk for suicidal thoughts or behavior was higher in clinical trials for epilepsy than in clinical trials for psychiatric or other conditions, but the absolute risk differences were similar for the epilepsy and psychiatric indications. Nephrolithiasis has been observed in the clinical development program in 4% of adults treated with zonisamide, has also been detected by renal ultrasound in 8% of pediatric treated patients who had at least one ultrasound prospectively collected, and was reported as an adverse event in 3% (4/133) of pediatric patients (see PRECAUTIONS , Kidney Stones subsection). The incidence of a persistent markedly abnormally low serum bicarbonate value was 4% at doses up to 100 mg daily, was 18% for a wide range of doses up to 600 mg daily, and generally appeared to increase with higher doses. Among all epilepsy patients treated with zonisamide, 1.4% were discontinued and 1% were hospitalized because of reported depression or suicide attempts. Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)/Multi-Organ Hypersensitivity: Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS), also known as multiorgan hypersensitivity, has occurred with zonisamide. DRESS typically, although not exclusively, presents with fever, rash, lymphadenopathy and/or facial swelling. In association with other organ system involvement, such as hepatitis, nephritis, hematologic abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis, sometimes resembling an acute viral infection. Mydriasis may or may note be present. The primary treatment to reverse symptoms is discontinuation of zonisamide capsules as rapidly as possible, according to the judgement of the treating physician. Nephrolithiasis has been observed in the clinical development program in 4 % of adults treated with zonisamide, has also been detected by renal ultrasound in 8 % of pediatric treated patients who had at least one ultrasound prospectively collected, and was reported as an adverse event in 3 % (4/133) of pediatric patients (see PRECAUTIONS, Kidney Stones subsection). Metabolic acidosis can also increase the risk for hyperammonemia, particularly in the presence of drugs which can cause hyperamonemia. Hyperammonemia and Encephalopathy: Hyperammonemia and encephalopathy have been reported with the postmarketing uses of zonisamide. Zonisamide treatment inhibits carbonic anhydrase activity, which may cause metabolic acidosis that is associated with an increased risk for developing hyperammonimia. Hyperammonemia from zonisamide may resolve or decrease in severity with decrease of the daily dose. In postmarketing experience from Japan, a total of 49 cases of SJS or TEN have been reported, a reporting rate of 46 per million patient-years of exposure. During Japanese development, serious rash or rash that led to study drug discontinuation was reported in 2% of patients (27.8 events per 1,000 patient-years). Table 3. Risk by indication for antiepileptic drugs in the pooled analysis Indication Placebo Patients with Events Per 1,000 Patients Drug Patients with Events Per 1,000 Patients Relative Risk: Incidence of Events in Drug Patients/Incidence in Placebo Patients Risk Difference: Additional Drug Patients with Events Per 1,000 Patients Epilepsy 1 3.4 3.5 2.4 Psychiatric 5.7 8.5 1.5 2.9 Other 1 1.8 1.9 0.9 Total 2.4 4.3 1.8 1.9 The relative risk for suicidal thoughts or behavior was higher in clinical trials for epilepsy than in clinical trials for psychiatric or other conditions, but the absolute risk differences were similar for the epilepsy and psychiatric indications. Cognitive/Neuropsychiatric Adverse Events: Use of zonisamide was frequently associated with central nervous system-related adverse events.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Zonisamide capsules are contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to sulfonamides or zonisamide. CONTRAINDICATIONS Zonisamide is contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to sulfonamides or zonisamide.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Drug Interactions with CNS Depressants: Concomitant administration of zonisamide and alcohol or other CNS depressant drugs has not been evaluated in clinical studies. Because of the potential of zonisamide to cause CNS depression, as well as other cognitive and/or neuropsychiatric adverse events, zonisamide should be used with caution if used in combination with alcohol or other CNS depressants. Other Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors: Concomitant use of zonisamide, a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, with any other carbonic anhydrase inhibitor (e.g., topiramate, acetazolamide or dichlorphenamide), may increase the severity of metabolic acidosis and may also increase the risk of kidney stone formation or the risk of hyperammonemia. Therefore, if zonisamide is given concomitantly with another carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, the patient should be monitored for the appearance or worsening of metabolic acidosis (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Interactions of Zonisamide with Other Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors subsection and WARNINGS, Metabolic Acidosis subsection and Hyperammonemia and Encephalopathy subsection). Drug Interactions with CNS Depressants: Concomitant administration of zonisamide and alcohol or other CNS depressant drugs has not been evaluated in clinical studies. Therefore, if zonisamide is given concomitantly with another carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, the patient should be monitored for the appearance or worsening of metabolic acidosis (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Interactions of Zonisamide with Other Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors subsection and WARNINGS , Metabolic Acidosis subsection and Hyperammonemia and Encephalopathy subsection).

=== BUTALBITAL ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Butalbital, Acetaminophen, and Caffeine capsules, USP are indicated for the relief of the symptom complex of tension (or muscle contraction) headache. Evidence supporting the efficacy and safety of this combination product in the treatment of multiple recurrent headaches is unavailable. Caution in this regard is required because butalbital is habit-forming and potentially abusable. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Butalbital and acetaminophen tablets are indicated for the relief of the symptom complex of tension (or muscle contraction) headache. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Butalbital, acetaminophen, and caffeine tablets, USP are indicated for the relief of the symptom complex of tension (or muscle contraction) headache. INDICATIONS Butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules are indicated for the relief of the symptom complex of tension (or muscle contraction) headache. Evidence supporting the efficacy and safety of butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules in the treatment of multiple recurrent headaches is unavailable. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Butalbital, acetaminophen and caffeine tablets are indicated for the relief of the symptom complex of tension (or muscle contraction) headache. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules are indicated for the management of the symptom complex of tension (or muscle contraction) headache when non-opioid analgesic and alternative treatments are inadequate. Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsule is a combination product of butalbital, a barbiturate; acetaminophen; caffeine, a methylxanthine; and codeine phosphate, an opioid agonist; and is indicated for the management of the symptom complex of tension (or muscle contraction) headache, when other non-opioid analgesic and alternative treatments are inadequate. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids, even at recommended doses, reserve Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (e.g., non-opioid, non-barbiturate analgesics): Have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated, Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids and butalbital, even at recommended doses [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ], reserve Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options [e.g., non-opioid, non-barbiturate analgesics]: Have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated, Have not provided adequate analgesia or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules are indicated for the management of the symptom complex of tension (or muscle contraction) headache when non opioid analgesic and alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, and misuse with opioids and butalbital, even at recommended doses [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] , reserve Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options [e.g., non-opioid, non-barbiturate analgesics]: Have not been tolerated, or are not expected to be tolerated, Have not provided adequate analgesia, or are not expected to provide adequate analgesia. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP is indicated for the management of the symptom complex of tension (or muscle contraction) headache, when non-opioid analgesic and alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosage or duration and persist over the course of therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ], reserve opioid analgesics, including Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP, for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP should not be used for an extended period of time unless the pain remains severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options continue to be inadequate. Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP is a combination of butalbital, a barbiturate, aspirin, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, caffeine, a methylxanthine, and codeine phosphate, an opioid agonist, and is indicated for the management of the symptom complex of tension (or muscle contraction) headache, when other non-opioid analgesics and alternative treatments are inadequate. Limitations of Use : Because of the risks of addiction, abuse, misuse, overdose, and death, which can occur at any dosage or duration and persist over the course of therapy, reserve opioid analgesics, including Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP, for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain. ( 1 , 5.1 )
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 1 or 2 capsules every 4 hours as needed. Total daily dosage should not exceed 6 capsules. Extended and repeated use of this product is not recommended because of the potential for physical dependence. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 50 mg/325 mg: One to two tablets every four hours as needed. Total daily dosage should not exceed six tablets. 50 mg/300 mg : One or two tablets every four hours. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One or 2 tablets every 4 hours as needed. Total daily dosage should not exceed 6 tablets. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One or 2 capsules every 4 hours. Total daily dose should not exceed 6 capsules. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals. ( 2.1 ) Individualize dosing based on the severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. ( 2.1 ) Discuss availability of naloxone with the patient and caregiver and assess each patient's need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine and Codeine Phosphate Capsules. Consider prescribing naloxone based on the patient's risk factors for overdose. ( 2.2 , 5.1 , 5.3 , 5.4 ) Initiate treatment with one or two capsules every 4 hours as needed for pain. ( 2.3 ) Do not abruptly discontinue Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules in a physically dependent patient because rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide ( 2.4 ). 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ]. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Evidence supporting the efficacy and safety of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules in the treatment of multiple recurrent headaches is unavailable. 2.2 Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , Patient Counseling Information (17) ]. Inform patients and caregivers about the various ways to obtain naloxone as permitted by individual state naloxone dispensing and prescribing requirements or guidelines (e.g., by prescription, directly from a pharmacist, or as part of a community-based program). Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient's risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.3 , 5.4) ]. Consider prescribing naloxone if the patient has household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose. 2.3 Dosing Information One or two capsules every 4 hours as needed for pain. 2.4 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules Do not abruptly discontinue Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. Rapid discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. Patients may also attempt to treat their pain or withdrawal symptoms with illicit opioids, such as heroin, and other substances. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the dose of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. It is important to ensure ongoing care of the patient and to agree on an appropriate tapering schedule and follow-up plan so that patient and provider goals and expectations are clear and realistic. When opioid analgesics are being discontinued due to a suspected substance use disorder, evaluate and treat the patient, or refer for evaluation and treatment of the substance use disorder. Treatment should include evidence-based approaches, such as medication assisted treatment of opioid use disorder. Complex patients with co-morbid pain and substance use disorders may benefit from referral to a specialist. There are no standard opioid tapering schedules that are suitable for all patients. Good clinical practice dictates a patient-specific plan to taper the dose of the opioid gradually. For patients on Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks. Patients who have been taking opioids for briefer periods of time may tolerate a more rapid taper. It may be necessary to provide the patient with lower dosage strengths to accomplish a successful taper. Reassess the patient frequently to manage pain and withdrawal symptoms, should they emerge. Common withdrawal symptoms include restlessness, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, yawning, perspiration, chills, myalgia, and mydriasis. Other signs and symptoms also may develop, including irritability, anxiety, backache, joint pain, weakness, abdominal cramps, insomnia, nausea, anorexia, vomiting, diarrhea, or increased blood pressure, respiratory rate, or heart rate. If withdrawal symptoms arise, it may be necessary to pause the taper for a period of time or raise the dose of the opioid analgesic to the previous dose, and then proceed with a slower taper. In addition, monitor patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for a long duration and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16) , Drug Abuse and Dependence (9.3) ] . ( 2.1 ) Discuss availability of naloxone with the patient and caregiver and assess each patient’s need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules. Consider prescribing naloxone based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose. ( 2.3 ) Do not abruptly discontinue Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules in a physically dependent patient because rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )] . Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s severity of pain, patient response, prior analgesic treatment experience, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . 2.2 Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone, both when initiating and renewing treatment with Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ), Patient Counseling Information ( 17 )] . Consider prescribing naloxone, based on the patient’s risk factors for overdose, such as concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.3 , 5.4 )] . When opioid analgesics are being discontinued due to a suspected substance use disorder, evaluate, and treat the patient, or refer for evaluation and treatment of the substance use disorder. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.16 ), Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )] . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One or two tablets every four hours as needed. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Periodically reassess patients receiving Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP to evaluate the continued need for opioid analgesics to maintain pain control, for the signs or symptoms of adverse reactions, and for the development of addiction, abuse, or misuse. ( 2.1 ) Discuss opioid overdose reversal agents and options for acquiring them with the patient and/or caregiver, both when initiating and renewing treatment with Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP, especially if the patient has additional risk factors for overdose, or close contacts at risk for exposure and overdose. ( 2.2 , 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 ) Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. ( 2.1 ) Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals. Reserve titration to higher doses of Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. ( 2.1 , 5 ) Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. Clinical guidelines on opioid prescribing for some acute pain conditions are available, ( 2.1 ) Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient's underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse. ( 2.1 , 5.1 ) Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments. ( 2.1 , 5.2 ) Initiate treatment with one or two capsules every 4 hours as needed for pain, and at the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. Titrate the dose based upon the individual patient’s response to their initial dose of Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP. ( 2 , 5 ) Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP in a physically dependent patient because rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation of opioid analgesics has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. ( 2.4 , 5.16 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP should be prescribed only by healthcare professionals who are knowledgeable about the use of opioids and how to mitigate the associated risks. Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration of time consistent with individual patient treatment goals [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )] . Because the risk of overdose increases as opioid doses increase, reserve titration to higher doses of Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP for patients in whom lower doses are insufficiently effective and in whom the expected benefits of using a higher dose opioid clearly outweigh the substantial risks. Many acute pain conditions (e.g., the pain that occurs with a number of surgical procedures or acute musculoskeletal injuries) require no more than a few days of an opioid analgesic. Clinical guidelines on opioid prescribing for some acute pain conditions are available. There is a variability in the opioid analgesic dose and duration needed to adequately manage pain due both to the cause of pain and to individual patient factors. Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually, taking into account the patient’s underlying cause and severity of pain, prior analgesic treatment and response, and risk factors for addiction, abuse, and misuse [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Respiratory depression can occur at any time during opioid therapy, especially when initiating and following dosage increases with Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP. Consider this risk when selecting an initial dose and when making dose adjustments [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )] . 2.2 Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Inform patients and caregivers about opioid reversal agents (e.g., naloxone, nalmefene). Discuss the importance of having access to an opioid overdose reversal agent, especially if the patient has risk factors for overdose (e.g., concomitant use of CNS depressants, a history of opioid use disorder, or prior opioid overdose) or if there are household members (including children) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or opioid overdose. The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the management of pain in any patient [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.3 )] . Discuss the options for obtaining an opioid overdose reversal agent (e.g., prescription, over-the-counter, or as part of a community-based program) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . There are important differences among the opioid overdose reversal agents, such as route of administration, product strength, approved patient age range, and pharmacokinetics. Be familiar with these differences, as outlined in the approved labeling for those products, prior to recommending or prescribing such an agent. Use the lowest dose necessary to achieve adequate analgesia. 2.4 Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP Do not rapidly reduce or abruptly discontinue Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids. Rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms, uncontrolled pain, and suicide. Rapid reduction or abrupt discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics, which may be confused with drug-seeking for abuse. When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid-dependent patient taking Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP, there are a variety of factors that should be considered, including the total daily dose of opioid (including Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP) the patient has been taking, the duration of treatment, the type of pain being treated, and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient. Treatment should include evidence-based approaches, such as medication assisted treatment of opioid used disorder. For patients on Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP who are physically opioid-dependent, initiate the taper by a small enough increment (e.g., no greater than 10% to 25% of the total daily dose) to avoid withdrawal symptoms, and proceed with dose-lowering at an internal of every 2 to 4 weeks. In addition, evaluate patients for any changes in mood, emergence of suicidal thoughts, or use of other substances. When managing patients taking opioid analgesics, particularly those who have been treated for an extended period of time and/or with high doses for chronic pain, ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management, including mental health support (if needed), is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper. A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain, as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesics [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.16 ), Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9.3 )] .
Warnings: WARNINGS Butalbital is habit-forming and potentially abusable. Consequently, the extended use of this product is not recommended. Hepatotoxicity Acetaminophen has been associated with cases of acute liver failure, at times resulting in liver transplant and death. Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses that exceed 4000 milligrams per day, and often involve more than one acetaminophen-containing product. The excessive intake of acetaminophen may be intentional to cause self-harm or unintentional as patients attempt to obtain more pain relief or unknowingly take other acetaminophen-containing products. The risk of acute liver failure is high in individuals with underlying liver disease and in individuals who ingest alcohol while taking acetaminophen. Instruct patients to look for acetaminophen or APAP on package labels and not to use more than one product that contains acetaminophen. Instruct patients to seek medical attention immediately upon ingestion of more than 4000 milligrams of acetaminophen per day, even if they feel well. Serious skin reactions Rarely, acetaminophen may cause serious skin reactions such as acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Patients should be informed about the signs of serious skin reactions, and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Hypersensitivity/ anaphylaxis There have been post-marketing reports of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis associated with use of acetaminophen. Clinical signs included swelling of the face, mouth, and throat, respiratory distress, urticaria, rash, pruritus, and vomiting. There were infrequent reports of life-threatening anaphylaxis requiring emergency medical attention. Instruct patients to discontinue Butalbital, Acetaminophen, and Caffeine capsules, USP immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms. Do not prescribe Butalbital, Acetaminophen, and Caffeine capsules, USP for patients with acetaminophenm allergy. The risk of acute liver failure is higher in individuals with underlying liver disease and in individuals who ingest alcohol while taking acetaminophen. Hypersensitivity/anaphylaxis There have been post-marketing reports of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis associated with use of acetaminophen. Instruct patients to discontinue butalbital and acetaminophen tablets immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms. Do not prescribe butalbital and acetaminophen tablets for patients with acetaminophen allergy. WARNINGS Hepatotoxicity Acetaminophen has been associated with cases of acute liver failure, at times resulting in liver transplant and death. Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses that exceed 4000 milligrams per day, and often involve more than one acetaminophen containing product. Patients should be informed about the signs of serious reactions, and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Instruct patients to discontinue butalbital, acetaminophen, and caffeine tablets, USP immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms. Do not prescribe butalbital, aceta‑minophen, and caffeine tablets, USP for patients with acetaminophen allergy. Butalbital is habit-forming and potentially abusable. WARNINGS Therapeutic doses of aspirin can cause anaphylactic shock and other severe allergic reactions. It should be ascertained if the patient is allergic to aspirin, although a specific history of allergy may be lacking. Significant bleeding can result from aspirin therapy in patients with peptic ulcer or other gastrointestinal lesions, and in patients with bleeding disorders. Aspirin administered preoperatively may prolong the bleeding time. Consequently, the extended use of butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules is not recommended. Results from epidemiologic studies indicate an association between aspirin and Reye's Syndrome. Caution should be used in administering this product to children, including teenagers, with chicken pox or flu. Fetal Toxicity Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus Avoid use of NSAIDs, including butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules, in pregnant women at about 30 weeks gestation and later. NSAIDs including butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules, increase the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus at approximately this gestational age. Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment Use of NSAIDs, including butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules, at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy may cause fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios and, in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. These adverse outcomes are seen, on average, after days to weeks of treatment, although oligohydramnios has been infrequently reported as soon as 48 hours after NSAID initiation. Oligohydramnios is often, but not always, reversible with treatment discontinuation. Complications of prolonged oligohydramnios may, for example, include limb contractures and delayed lung maturation. In some post-marketing cases of impaired neonatal renal function, invasive procedures such as exchange transfusion or dialysis were required. If NSAID treatment is necessary between about 20 weeks and 30 weeks gestation, limit butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. Consider ultrasound monitoring of amniotic fluid if butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules treatment extends beyond 48 hours. Discontinue butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice [ see PRECAUTIONS; Pregnancy ]. Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including aspirin, a component of butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules, can cause serious skin adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. NSAIDs can also cause fixed drug eruption (FDE). FDE may present as a more severe variant known as generalized bullous fixed drug eruption (GBFDE), which can be life-threatening. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions, and to discontinue the use of butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules are contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ]. Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) has been reported in patients taking NSAIDs such as butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules. Some of these events have been fatal or life-threatening. DRESS typically, although not exclusively, presents with fever, rash, lymphadenopathy, and/or facial swelling. Other clinical manifestations may include hepatitis, nephritis, hematological abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis. Sometimes symptoms of DRESS may resemble an acute viral infection. Eosinophilia is often present. Because this disorder is variable in its presentation, other organ systems not noted here may be involved. It is important to note that early manifestations of hypersensitivity, such as fever or lymphadenopathy, may be present even though rash is not evident. If such signs or symptoms are present, discontinue butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules and evaluate the patient immediately. Instruct patients to discontinue Butalbital, Acetaminophen and Caffeine Tablets, USP immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms. Do not prescribe Butalbital, Acetaminophen and Caffeine Tablets, USP for patients with acetaminophen allergy. WARNING HEPATOTOXICITY ACETAMINOPHEN HAS BEEN ASSOCIATED WITH CASES OF ACUTE LIVER FAILURE, AT TIMES RESULTING IN LIVER TRANSPLANT AND DEATH. Instruct patients to discontinue butalbital, acetaminophen and caffeine tablets immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms. Do not prescribe butalbital, acetaminophen and caffeine tablets for patients with acetaminophen allergy.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated under the following conditions: Hypersensitivity or intolerance to any component of this product Patients with porphyria. CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated under the following conditions: Hypersensitivity or intolerance to any component of this product. Patients with porphyria CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated under the following conditions: - Hypersensitivity or intolerance to any component of this product - Patients with porphyria. CONTRAINDICATIONS Butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules are contraindicated under the following conditions: • Hypersensitivity or intolerance to aspirin, caffeine, or butalbital. • Patients with a hemorrhagic diathesis (e.g., hemophilia, hypoprothrombinemia, von Willebrand's disease, the thrombocytopenias, thrombasthenia and other ill-defined hereditary platelet dysfunctions, severe vitamin K deficiency and severe liver damage). • Patients with the syndrome of nasal polyps, angioedema and bronchospastic reactivity to aspirin or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in such patients. • Peptic ulcer or other serious gastrointestinal lesions. • Patients with porphyria. CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated under the following conditions: – Hypersensitivity or intolerance to any component of this product – Patients with porphyria. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules are contraindicated for: All children younger than 12 years of age [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Post-operative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules are also contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ] Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) , Drug Interactions (7) ] Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14) ] Known intolerance or hypersensitivity to acetaminophen, caffeine, butalbital, or codeine or to the components of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules Porphyria Children younger than 12 years of age. ( 4 ) Post-operative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy. ( 4 ) Significant respiratory depression. ( 4 ) Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in absence of resuscitative equipment. ( 4 ) Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days. ( 4 ) Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus. ( 4 ) Intolerance or hypersensitivity to acetaminophen, caffeine, butalbital or codeine, or components of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules. ( 4 ) Porphyria. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules are contraindicated for: All children younger than 12 years of age [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . Post-operative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )] . Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules are also contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 ), Drug Interactions ( 7 )] Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 )] Known intolerance or hypersensitivity to acetaminophen, caffeine, butalbital, or codeine or to the components of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules Porphyria Children younger than 12 years of age. CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated under the following conditions: • Hypersensitivity or intolerance to any component of this product. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP is contraindicated for: All children younger than 12 years of age [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ] Postoperative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ) ]. Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP is also contraindicated in patients with: Significant respiratory depression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 ) ] Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 ) ] Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 ),Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ]. Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.14 )] Hypersensitivity or intolerance to aspirin, caffeine, butalbital, or codeine. Hemophilia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.19 ) ] Reye’s Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.20 ) ] Known allergy to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.23 ) ] Syndrome of asthma, rhinitis, and nasal polyps [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.23 ) ] Children younger than 12 years of age ( 4 ) Post-operative management in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy ( 4 ) Significant respiratory depression ( 4 ) Acute or severe bronchial asthma ( 4 ) Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days ( 4 ) Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction, including paralytic ileus ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to aspirin, caffeine, butalbital, or codeine ( 4 ) Hemophilia ( 4 ) Reye’s Syndrome ( 4 ) Known allergy to NSAIDs ( 4 ) Syndrome of asthma, rhinitis, and nasal polyps ( 4 )
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions The CNS effects of butalbital may be enhanced by monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors. Butalbital, acetaminophen, and caffeine may enhance the effects of: other narcotic analgesics, alcohol, general anesthetics, tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide, sedative-hypnotics, or other CNS depressants, causing increased CNS depression. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of aspirin, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance. Butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules may enhance the effects of: • Oral anticoagulants, causing bleeding by inhibiting prothrombin formation in the liver and displacing anticoagulants from plasma protein binding sites. • Oral antidiabetic agents and insulin, causing hypoglycemia by contributing an additive effect, if dosage of butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules exceeds maximum recommended daily dosage. • 6-mercaptopurine and methotrexate, causing bone marrow toxicity and blood dyscrasias by displacing these drugs from secondary binding sites, and, in the case of methotrexate, also reducing its excretion. • Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, increasing the risk of peptic ulceration and bleeding by contributing additive effects. • Other narcotic analgesics, alcohol, general anesthetics, tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide, sedative-hypnotics, or other CNS depressants, causing increased CNS depression. Butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules may diminish the effects of: Uricosuric agents such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone, reducing their effectiveness in the treatment of gout. Aspirin competes with these agents for protein binding sites. Butalbital, acetaminophen and caffeine may enhance the effects of: other narcotic analgesics, alcohol, general anesthetics, tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide, sedative-hypnotics, or other CNS depressants, causing increased CNS depression. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 1 includes clinically significant drug interactions with Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules. Table 1: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules Inhibitors of CYP3A4 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules with CYP3A4 inhibitors may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations with subsequently greater metabolism by cytochrome CYP2D6, resulting in greater morphine levels, which could increase or prolong adverse reactions and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules is achieved [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, it may result in lower codeine levels, greater norcodeine levels, and less metabolism via 2D6 with resultant lower morphine levels [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to codeine. Intervention: If concomitant use with CYP3A4 inhibitor is necessary, consider dosage reduction of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Monitor for signs of opioid withdrawal. Examples: Macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), grapefruit juice CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules and CYP3A4 inducers can result in lower codeine levels, greater norcodeine levels, and less metabolism via 2D6 with resultant lower morphine levels [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the codeine plasma concentration may increase with subsequently greater metabolism by cytochrome CYP2D6, resulting in greater morphine levels [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] , which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. Intervention: If concomitant use of a CYP3A4 inducer is necessary, follow the patient for reduced efficacy and signs of opioid withdrawal and consider increasing the Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules dosage as needed. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules dosage reduction, and monitor for signs of respiratory depression and sedation at frequent intervals. Examples: Rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin Inhibitors of CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: Codeine is metabolized by CYP2D6 to form morphine. The concomitant use of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules and CYP2D6 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of codeine, but can decrease the plasma concentrations of active metabolite morphine, which could result in reduced analgesic efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules is achieved [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . After stopping a CYP2D6 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the codeine plasma concentration will decrease but the active metabolite morphine plasma concentration will increase, which could increase or prolong adverse reactions and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Intervention: If concomitant use with a CYP2D6 inhibitor is necessary, or if a CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued after concomitant use, consider dosage adjustment of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules and monitor patients closely at frequent intervals. If concomitant use with CYP2D6 inhibitors is necessary, follow the patient for reduced efficacy or signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal and consider increasing the Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules as needed. After stopping use of a CYP2D6 inhibitor, consider reducing the Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules and monitor the patient for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression or sedation. Examples: paroxetine, fluoxetine, bupropion, quinidine Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Intervention: Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Follow patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.3 , 5.4) ] . Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, other opioids, alcohol. Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome. Intervention: If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Examples: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. Intervention: Do not use Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules in patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. If urgent use of an opioid is necessary, use test doses and frequent titration of small doses of other opioids (such as oxycodone, hydrocodone, oxymorphone, hydromorphone, or buprenorphine) to treat pain while closely monitoring blood pressure and signs and symptoms of CNS and respiratory depression. Examples: phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use. Examples: butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, buprenorphine Muscle Relaxants Clinical Impact: Codeine may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Warnings and Precautions (5.3 , 5.4) ] . Examples: cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Anticholinergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Intervention: Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules are used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Serotonergic Drugs: Concomitant use may result in serotonin syndrome. ( 7 ) Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics: Avoid use with Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules because they may reduce analgesic effect of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. ( 7 ) Table 1: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules Inhibitors of CYP3A4 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules with CYP3A4 inhibitors may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations with subsequently greater metabolism by cytochrome CYP2D6, resulting in greater morphine levels, which could increase or prolong adverse reactions and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules is achieved [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, it may result in lower codeine levels, greater norcodeine levels, and less metabolism via 2D6 with resultant lower morphine levels [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , resulting in decreased opioid efficacy or a withdrawal syndrome in patients who had developed physical dependence to codeine. ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir), grapefruit juice CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules and CYP3A4 inducers can result in lower codeine levels, greater norcodeine levels, and less metabolism via 2D6 with resultant lower morphine levels [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 )] . After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the codeine plasma concentration may increase with subsequently greater metabolism by cytochrome CYP2D6, resulting in greater morphine levels [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. The concomitant use of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules and CYP2D6 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of codeine, but can decrease the plasma concentrations of active metabolite morphine, which could result in reduced analgesic efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of Butalbital, Acetaminophen, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules is achieved [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . After stopping a CYP2D6 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the codeine plasma concentration will decrease but the active metabolite morphine plasma concentration will increase, which could increase or prolong adverse reactions and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.3 , 5.4 )] . Examples: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )]. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 , 5.4 )] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 1 includes clinically significant drug interactions with Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP. Table 1: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP Inhibitors of CYP3A4 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP with CYP3A4 inhibitors may result in an increase in codeine plasma concentrations with subsequently greater metabolism by cytochrome CYP2D6, resulting in greater morphine levels, which could increase or prolong adverse reactions and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP is achieved. Intervention: If concomitant use with CYP3A4 inhibitor is necessary, consider dosage reduction of Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate patients at frequent intervals for respiratory depression and sedation. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate for signs of opioid withdrawal. ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP and CYP3A4 inducers can result in lower codeine levels, greater norcodeine levels, and less metabolism via 2D6 with resultant lower morphine levels [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.16 ) ]. After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the codeine plasma concentration may increase with subsequently greater metabolism by cytochrome CYP2D6, resulting in greater morphine levels [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] , which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause serious respiratory depression. Intervention: If concomitant use of a CYP3A4 inducer is necessary, evaluate patients at frequent intervals for reduced efficacy and signs of opioid withdrawal and consider increasing the Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP dosage as needed. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP dosage reduction, and evaluate patients at frequent intervals for signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Examples: Rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin Inhibitors of CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: Codeine in Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP is metabolized by CYP2D6 to form morphine. The concomitant use of Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP and CYP2D6 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of codeine, but can decrease the plasma concentrations of active metabolite morphine which could result in reduced analgesic efficacy or symptoms of opioid withdrawal, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP is achieved [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. After stopping a CYP2D6 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the codeine plasma concentration will decrease but the active metabolite morphine plasma concentration will increase, which could increase or prolong adverse reactions and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Intervention: If concomitant use with a CYP2D6 inhibitor is necessary, or if a CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued after concomitant use, consider dosage adjustment of Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP and evaluate patients at frequent intervals. If concomitant use with CYP2D6 inhibitors is necessary, evaluate patients for reduced efficacy or signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal and consider increasing the Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP as needed. After stopping use of a CYP2D6 inhibitor, consider reducing the Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP and evaluate patients at frequent intervals for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression or sedation. Examples: paroxetine, fluoxetine, bupropion, quinidine Benzodiazepines and other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants including alcohol, increases the risk of respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction and educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider prescribing naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose. Intervention: If concomitant use is warranted, frequently evaluate the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP immediately if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Examples: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT 3 receptor antagonists, drugs that effect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 ) ]. Intervention: Do not use Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP in patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. If urgent use of an opioid is necessary, use test doses and frequent titration of small doses of other opioids (such as oxycodone, hydrocodone, oxymorphone, or buprenorphine) to treat pain while closely monitoring blood pressure and signs and symptoms of CNS and respiratory depression. Examples: phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Examples: butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, buprenorphine, Muscle Relaxants Clinical Impact: Codeine may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected, decrease the dosage of Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of skeletal muscle relaxants and opioids, consider prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 , 5.4 )] . Examples: Cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. The effectiveness of diuretics in patients with underlying renal or cardiovascular disease may be diminished by the concomitant administration of aspirin due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Anticoagulants Clinical Impact: Aspirin may enhance the effects of anticoagulants. Concurrent use may increase the risk of bleeding. Aspirin can also displace warfarin from protein binding sites, leading to prolongation of both the prothrombin time and the bleeding time. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of bleeding. Examples: Warfarin, heparin, enoxaparin, clopidogrel, prasugrel, rivaroxaban, apixaban Uricosuric Agents Clinical Impact: Aspirin inhibits the uricosuric effects of uricosuric agents. Examples: Probenecid Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Concurrent use with aspirin can lead to high serum concentrations of the carbonic anhydrase inhibitor and cause toxicity due to competition at the renal tubule for secretion. Intervention: Consider reducing the dose of the carbonic anhydrase inhibitor. Evaluate the patients for any adverse effects from the carbonic anhydrase inhibitor. Examples: Acetazolamide, methazolamide Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Aspirin may enhance the toxicity of methotrexate by displacing it from its plasma protein binding sites and/or reducing its renal clearance. Intervention: Use caution if using concomitantly, especially in elderly patients or patients with renal impairment. Evaluate patients for methotrexate toxicity. Nephrotoxic Agents Clinical Impact: Concomitant use with aspirin may lead to additive nephrotoxicity due to the inhibition of renal prostaglandins by aspirin. Also, the plasma concentration of aspirin is increased by conditions that reduce the glomerular filtration rate or tubular secretion. Intervention: Use Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP with caution if used concomitantly with nephrotoxic agents. Evaluate the renal function of patients. Examples: Aminoglycosides, amphotericin B, systemic bacitracin, cisplatin, cyclosporine, foscarnet, or parenteral vancomycin Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE) Inhibitors Clinical Impact: The hyponatremic and hypotensive effects of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by the concomitant administration of aspirin due to its indirect effect on the renin- angiotensin conversion pathway. Intervention: Use caution if using concomitantly. Evaluate the blood pressure and renal function of patients. Examples: Ramipril, captopril Beta Blockers Clinical Impact: The hypotensive effects of beta blockers may be diminished by the concomitant administration of aspirin due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins, leading to decreased renal blood flow, and salt and fluid retention. Examples: Metoprolol, propranolol Hypoglycemic Agents Clinical Impact: Aspirin may increase the serum glucose-lowering action of insulin and sulfonylureas leading to hypoglycemia. Intervention: Patients should be advised to consult a physician if any signs or symptoms of hypoglycemia occur. Examples: Insulin, glimepiride, glipizide Anticonvulsants Clinical Impact: Aspirin can displace protein-bound phenytoin and valproic acid, leading to a decrease in the total concentration of phenytoin and an increase in serum valproic acid levels. Examples: Phenytoin, valproic acid Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) Clinical Impact: Concurrent use with aspirin may increase the risk of bleeding or lead to decreased renal function. Aspirin may enhance serious side effects and toxicity of ketorolac by displacing it from its plasma protein binding sites and/or reducing its renal clearance. Examples: Ketorolac, ibuprofen, naproxen, diclofenac Corticosteroids Clinical Impact: In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of aspirin, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance. Discontinue Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP if serotonin syndrome is suspected. ( 7 ) Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics : Avoid use with Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate Capsules, USP because they may reduce analgesic effect of Butalbital, Aspirin, Caffeine, and Codeine Phosphate, USP or precipitate withdrawal symptoms.

=== ACETAMINOPHEN AND CAFFEINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Butalbital, Acetaminophen, and Caffeine capsules, USP are indicated for the relief of the symptom complex of tension (or muscle contraction) headache. Evidence supporting the efficacy and safety of this combination product in the treatment of multiple recurrent headaches is unavailable. Caution in this regard is required because butalbital is habit-forming and potentially abusable. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Butalbital, acetaminophen, and caffeine tablets, USP are indicated for the relief of the symptom complex of tension (or muscle contraction) headache. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Butalbital, acetaminophen and caffeine tablets are indicated for the relief of the symptom complex of tension (or muscle contraction) headache. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Butalbital, Acetaminophen and Caffeine capsules are indicated for the relief of the symptom complex of tension (or muscle contraction) headache.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 1 or 2 capsules every 4 hours as needed. Total daily dosage should not exceed 6 capsules. Extended and repeated use of this product is not recommended because of the potential for physical dependence. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One or 2 tablets every 4 hours as needed. Total daily dosage should not exceed 6 tablets. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One or two tablets every four hours as needed. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One or 2 capsules every 4 hours as needed. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One or two capsules every four hours as needed.
Warnings: WARNINGS Butalbital is habit-forming and potentially abusable. Consequently, the extended use of this product is not recommended. Hepatotoxicity Acetaminophen has been associated with cases of acute liver failure, at times resulting in liver transplant and death. Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses that exceed 4000 milligrams per day, and often involve more than one acetaminophen-containing product. The excessive intake of acetaminophen may be intentional to cause self-harm or unintentional as patients attempt to obtain more pain relief or unknowingly take other acetaminophen-containing products. The risk of acute liver failure is high in individuals with underlying liver disease and in individuals who ingest alcohol while taking acetaminophen. Instruct patients to look for acetaminophen or APAP on package labels and not to use more than one product that contains acetaminophen. Instruct patients to seek medical attention immediately upon ingestion of more than 4000 milligrams of acetaminophen per day, even if they feel well. Serious skin reactions Rarely, acetaminophen may cause serious skin reactions such as acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. Patients should be informed about the signs of serious skin reactions, and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Hypersensitivity/ anaphylaxis There have been post-marketing reports of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis associated with use of acetaminophen. Clinical signs included swelling of the face, mouth, and throat, respiratory distress, urticaria, rash, pruritus, and vomiting. There were infrequent reports of life-threatening anaphylaxis requiring emergency medical attention. Instruct patients to discontinue Butalbital, Acetaminophen, and Caffeine capsules, USP immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms. Do not prescribe Butalbital, Acetaminophen, and Caffeine capsules, USP for patients with acetaminophenm allergy. WARNINGS Hepatotoxicity Acetaminophen has been associated with cases of acute liver failure, at times resulting in liver transplant and death. Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses that exceed 4000 milligrams per day, and often involve more than one acetaminophen containing product. The risk of acute liver failure is higher in individuals with underlying liver disease and in individuals who ingest alcohol while taking acetaminophen. Patients should be informed about the signs of serious reactions, and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Hypersensitivity/anaphylaxis There have been post-marketing reports of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis associated with use of acetaminophen. Instruct patients to discontinue butalbital, acetaminophen, and caffeine tablets, USP immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms. Do not prescribe butalbital, aceta‑minophen, and caffeine tablets, USP for patients with acetaminophen allergy. Butalbital is habit-forming and potentially abusable. Instruct patients to discontinue Butalbital, Acetaminophen and Caffeine Tablets, USP immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms. Do not prescribe Butalbital, Acetaminophen and Caffeine Tablets, USP for patients with acetaminophen allergy. WARNING HEPATOTOXICITY ACETAMINOPHEN HAS BEEN ASSOCIATED WITH CASES OF ACUTE LIVER FAILURE, AT TIMES RESULTING IN LIVER TRANSPLANT AND DEATH. Instruct patients to discontinue butalbital, acetaminophen and caffeine tablets immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms. Do not prescribe butalbital, acetaminophen and caffeine tablets for patients with acetaminophen allergy. Instruct patients to discontinue Butalbital, Acetaminophen and Caffeine Capsules, immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms. Do not prescribe Butalbital, Acetaminophen and Caffeine Capsules for patients with acetaminophen allergy. Patients should be informed about the signs of serious skin reactions and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Instruct patients to discontinue Butalbital, Acetaminophen and Caffeine Capsules, USP immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms. Do not prescribe Butalbital, Acetaminophen and Caffeine Capsules, USP for patients with acetaminophen allergy.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated under the following conditions: Hypersensitivity or intolerance to any component of this product Patients with porphyria. CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated under the following conditions: - Hypersensitivity or intolerance to any component of this product - Patients with porphyria. CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated under the following conditions: – Hypersensitivity or intolerance to any component of this product – Patients with porphyria. CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated under the following conditions: • Hypersensitivity or intolerance to any component of this product. • Patients with porphyria. CONTRAINDICATIONS – Hypersensitivity or intolerance to any component of this product – Patients with porphyria. CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated under the following conditions: -Hypersensitivity or intolerance to any component of this product -Patients with porphyria. CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated under the following conditions: Hypersensitivity or intolerance to any component of this product. Patients with porphyria.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions The CNS effects of butalbital may be enhanced by monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors. Butalbital, acetaminophen, and caffeine may enhance the effects of: other narcotic analgesics, alcohol, general anesthetics, tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide, sedative-hypnotics, or other CNS depressants, causing increased CNS depression. Butalbital, acetaminophen and caffeine may enhance the effects of: other narcotic analgesics, alcohol, general anesthetics, tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide, sedative-hypnotics, or other CNS depressants, causing increased CNS depression. Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Acetaminophen may produce false-positive test results for urinary 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid. Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No adequate studies have been conducted in animals to determine whether acetaminophen or butalbital have a potential for carcinogenesis, mutagenesis or impairment of fertility. Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects: Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with this combination product. It is also not known whether butalbital, acetaminophen and caffeine can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity. This product should be given to a pregnant woman only when clearly needed. Nonteratogenic Effects: Withdrawal seizures were reported in a two-day-old male infant whose mother had taken a butalbital-containing drug during the last two months of pregnancy. Butalbital was found in the infant's serum. The infant was given phenobarbital 5 mg/kg, which was tapered without further seizure or other withdrawal symptoms. Nursing Mothers Caffeine, barbiturates and acetaminophen are excreted in breast milk in small amounts, but the significance of their effects on nursing infants is not known. Because of potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from butalbital, acetaminophen and caffeine, a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug, taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother. Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 12 have not been established. Geriatric Use Clinical studies of butalbital, acetaminophen and caffeine capsules did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects. Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients. In general, dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy. Butalbital is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function. Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and it may be useful to monitor renal function.

=== FELODIPINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Felodipine extended-release tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure lowers the risk of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including felodipine. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than 1 drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (eg, on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. Felodipine extended-release tablets, USP may be administered with other antihypertensive agents. Lowering blood pressure lowers the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure or diabetic kidney disease). For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program's Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Felodipine tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Felodipine tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive agents.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended starting dose is 5 mg once a day. Depending on the patient's response, the dosage can be decreased to 2.5 mg or increased to 10 mg once a day. These adjustments should occur generally at intervals of not less than 2 weeks. The recommended dosage range is 2.5 to 10 mg once daily. In clinical trials, doses above 10 mg daily showed an increased blood pressure response but a large increase in the rate of peripheral edema and other vasodilatory adverse events (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Modification of the recommended dosage is usually not required in patients with renal impairment. Felodipine extended-release tablets, USP should regularly be taken either without food or with a light meal (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism ). Felodipine extended-release tablets, USP should be swallowed whole and not crushed or chewed. Geriatric Use Patients over 65 years of age are likely to develop higher plasma concentrations of felodipine (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). In general, dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range (2.5 mg daily). Elderly patients should have their blood pressure closely monitored during any dosage adjustment. Patients with Impaired Liver Function Patients with impaired liver function may have elevated plasma concentrations of felodipine and may respond to lower doses of felodipine extended-release tablets, USP; therefore, patients should have their blood pressure monitored closely during dosage adjustment of felodipine extended-release tablets, USP (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). The recommended dosage range is 2.5 mg to 10 mg once daily. Felodipine extended-release tablets should regularly be taken either without food or with a light meal (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism ). Felodipine extended-release tablets should be swallowed whole and not crushed or chewed. Patients with Impaired Liver Function Patients with impaired liver function may have elevated plasma concentrations of felodipine and may respond to lower doses of felodipine extended-release tablets; therefore, patients should have their blood pressure monitored closely during dosage adjustment of felodipine extended-release tablets (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). The recommended dosage range is 2.5-10 mg once daily. Geriatric Use - Patients over 65 years of age are likely to develop higher plasma concentrations of felodipine (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Patients with Impaired Liver Function - Patients with impaired liver function may have elevated plasma concentrations of felodipine and may respond to lower doses of felodipine extended-release tablets; therefore, patients should have their blood pressure monitored closely during dosage adjustment of felodipine extended-release tablets (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). The recommended dosage range is 2.5–10 mg once daily. Felodipine should regularly be taken either without food or with a light meal (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism ). Felodipine should be swallowed whole and not crushed or chewed. Patients with Impaired Liver Function Patients with impaired liver function may have elevated plasma concentrations of felodipine and may respond to lower doses of Felodipine; therefore, patients should have their blood pressure monitored closely during dosage adjustment of Felodipine (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Patients with Impaired Liver Function - Patients with impaired liver function may have elevated plasma concentrations of felodipine and may respond to lower doses of felodipine; therefore, patients should have their blood pressure monitored closely during dosage adjustment of felodipine (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Felodipine extended-release tablets, USP are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this product. CONTRAINDICATIONS Felodipine extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this product. CONTRAINDICATIONS Felodipine is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this product.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions CYP3A4 Inhibitors Felodipine is metabolized by CYP3A4. Co-administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, erythromycin, grapefruit juice, cimetidine) with felodipine may lead to several-fold increases in the plasma levels of felodipine, either due to an increase in bioavailability or due to a decrease in metabolism. These increases in concentration may lead to increased effects, (lower blood pressure and increased heart rate). These effects have been observed with co-administration of itraconazole (a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inhibitors are co-administered with felodipine. A conservative approach to dosing felodipine should be taken. The following specific interactions have been reported: Itraconazole Co-administration of another extended release formulation of felodipine with itraconazole resulted in approximately 8-fold increase in the AUC, more than 6-fold increase in the C max , and 2-fold prolongation in the half-life of felodipine. Erythromycin Co-administration of felodipine with erythromycin resulted in approximately 2.5-fold increase in the AUC and C max , and about 2-fold prolongation in the half-life of felodipine. Grapefruit Juice Co-administration of felodipine with grapefruit juice resulted in more than 2-fold increase in the AUC and C max , but no prolongation in the half-life of felodipine. Cimetidine Co-administration of felodipine with cimetidine (a non-specific CYP-450 inhibitor) resulted in an increase of approximately 50% in the AUC and the C max , of felodipine. Beta-Blocking Agents A pharmacokinetic study of felodipine in conjunction with metoprolol demonstrated no significant effects on the pharmacokinetics of felodipine. The AUC and C max of metoprolol, however, were increased approximately 31 and 38%, respectively. In controlled clinical trials, however, beta-blockers including metoprolol were concurrently administered with felodipine and were well tolerated. Digoxin When given concomitantly with felodipine extended-release the pharmacokinetics of digoxin in patients with heart failure were not significantly altered. Anticonvulsants In a pharmacokinetic study, maximum plasma concentrations of felodipine were considerably lower in epileptic patients on long-term anticonvulsant therapy (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, or phenobarbital) than in healthy volunteers. In such patients, the mean area under the felodipine plasma concentration-time curve was also reduced to approximately 6% of that observed in healthy volunteers. Since a clinically significant interaction may be anticipated, alternative antihypertensive therapy should be considered in these patients. Tacrolimus Felodipine may increase the blood concentration of tacrolimus. When given concomitantly with felodipine, the tacrolimus blood concentration should be followed and the tacrolimus dose may need to be adjusted. Other Concomitant Therapy In healthy subjects there were no clinically significant interactions when felodipine was given concomitantly with indomethacin or spironolactone. Interaction with Food see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism . Coadministration of CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, erythromycin, grapefruit juice, cimetidine) with felodipine may lead to several-fold increases in the plasma levels of felodipine, either due to an increase in bioavailability or due to a decrease in metabolism. These effects have been observed with coadministration of itraconazole (a potent CYP3A4 inhibitor). Caution should be used when CYP3A4 inhibitors are coadministered with felodipine. The following specific interactions have been reported: Itraconazole Coadministration of another extended-release formulation of felodipine with itraconazole resulted in approximately 8-fold increase in the AUC, more than 6-fold increase in the Cmax, and 2-fold prolongation in the half-life of felodipine. Erythromycin Coadministration of felodipine extended-release tablets with erythromycin resulted in approximately 2.5-fold increase in the AUC and Cmax, and about 2-fold prolongation in the half-life of felodipine. Grapefruit Juice Coadministration of felodipine extended-release tablets with grapefruit juice resulted in more than 2-fold increase in the AUC and Cmax, but no prolongation in the half-life of felodipine. Cimetidine Coadministration of felodipine with cimetidine (a non-specific CYP-450 inhibitor) resulted in an increase of approximately 50% in the AUC and the Cmax, of felodipine. The AUC and Cmax of metoprolol, however, were increased approximately 31 and 38%, respectively. Digoxin When given concomitantly with felodipine extended-release tablets the pharmacokinetics of digoxin in patients with heart failure were not significantly altered. Anticonvulsants In a pharmacokinetic study, maximum plasma concentrations of felodipine were considerably lower in epileptic patients on long-term anticonvulsant therapy (e.g. phenytoin, carbamazepine, or phenobarbital) than in healthy volunteers. Co-administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors (eg, ketoconazole, itraconazole, erythromycin, grapefruit juice, cimetidine) with felodipine may lead to several-fold increases in the plasma levels of felodipine, either due to an increase in bioavailability or due to a decrease in metabolism. Grapefruit juice Co-administration of felodipine with grapefruit juice resulted in more than 2-fold increase in the AUC and Cmax, but no prolongation in the half-life of felodipine. In controlled clinical trials, however, beta blockers including metoprolol were concurrently administered with felodipine and were well tolerated. Digoxin When given concomitantly with Felodipine the pharmacokinetics of digoxin in patients with heart failure was not significantly altered. Interaction with Food See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism . Drug Interactions CYP3A4 Inhibitors - Felodipine is metabolized by CYP3A4. The following specific interactions have been reported: Itraconazole - Coadministration of another extended-release formulation of felodipine with itraconazole resulted in approximately 8-fold increase in the AUC, more than 6-fold increase in the C max , and 2-fold prolongation in the half-life of felodipine. Erythromycin - Coadministration of felodipine with erythromycin resulted in approximately 2.5-fold increase in the AUC and C max , and about 2-fold prolongation in the half-life of felodipine. Grapefruit juice - Coadministration of felodipine with grapefruit juice resulted in more than 2-fold increase in the AUC and C max , but no prolongation in the half-life of felodipine. Cimetidine - Coadministration of felodipine with cimetidine (a non-specific CYP-450 inhibitor) resulted in an increase of approximately 50% in the AUC and the C max , of felodipine. Beta-Blocking Agents - A pharmacokinetic study of felodipine in conjunction with metoprolol demonstrated no significant effects on the pharmacokinetics of felodipine. Digoxin - When given concomitantly with felodipine the pharmacokinetics of digoxin in patients with heart failure were not significantly altered. Anticonvulsants - In a pharmacokinetic study, maximum plasma concentrations of felodipine were considerably lower in epileptic patients on long-term anticonvulsant therapy (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, or phenobarbital) than in healthy volunteers. Tacrolimus - Felodipine may increase the blood concentration of tacrolimus. Other Concomitant Therapy - In healthy subjects there were no clinically significant interactions when felodipine was given concomitantly with indomethacin or spironolactone. Interaction with Food - See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism.

=== METHOCARBAMOL TABLETS ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS & USAGE Methocarbamol tablets, USP are indicated as an adjunct to rest, physical therapy, and other measures for the relief of discomfort associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions. The mode of action of methocarbamol has not been clearly identified, but may be related to its sedative properties. Methocarbamol does not directly relax tense skeletal muscles in man. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methocarbamol tablets, USP are indicated as an adjunct to rest, physical therapy, and other measures for the relief of discomfort associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions.
Dosage: DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Methocarbamol Tablets, USP 500 mg – Adults: Initial dosage: 3 tablets 4 times daily Maintenance dosage: 2 tablets 4 times daily Methocarbamol Tablets, USP 750 mg – Adults: Initial dosage: 2 tablets 4 times daily Maintenance dosage: 1 tablet every 4 hours or 2 tablets three times daily Six grams a day are recommended for the first 48 to 72 hours of treatment. (For severe conditions 8 grams a day may be administered). Thereafter, the dosage can usually be reduced to approximately 4 grams a day. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Methocarbamol Tablets, USP 500 mg – Adults: Initial dosage: 3 tablets 4 times daily Maintenance dosage: 2 tablets 4 times daily Methocarbamol Tablets, USP 750 mg – Adults: Initial dosage: 2 tablets 4 times daily Maintenance dosage: 1 tablet every 4 hours or 2 tablets 3 times daily Six grams a day are recommended for the first 48 to 72 hours of treatment. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Methocarbamol Tablets, USP, 500 mg – Adults: Initial dosage: 3 tablets four times daily Maintenance dosage: 2 tablets four times daily Methocarbamol Tablets, USP, 750 mg – Adults: Initial dosage: 2 tablets four times daily Maintenance dosage: 1 tablet every 4 hours or 2 tablets three times daily Six grams a day are recommended for the first 48 to 72 hours of treatment. (For severe conditions 8 grams a day may be administered.) Thereafter, the dosage can usually be reduced to approximately 4 grams a day.
Warnings: WARNINGS Since methocarbamol may possess a general CNS depressant effect, patients receiving Methocarbamol tablets should be cautioned about combined effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants. Safe use of Methocarbamol tablets has not been established with regard to possible adverse effects upon fetal development. There have been reports of fetal and congenital abnormalities following in utero exposure to methocarbamol. Therefore, Methocarbamol tablets should not be used in women who are or may become pregnant and particularly during early pregnancy unless in the judgment of the physician the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards (see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy ). Use in Activities Requiring Mental Alertness Methocarbamol may impair mental and/or physical abilities required for performance of hazardous tasks, such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle. Patients should be cautioned about operating machinery, including automobiles, until they are reasonably certain that methocarbamol therapy does not adversely affect their ability to engage in such activities. WARNINGS Since methocarbamol may possess a general CNS depressant effect, patients receiving Methocarbamol Tablets, USP should be cautioned about combined effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants. Safe use of Methocarbamol Tablets, USP has not been established with regard to possible adverse effects upon fetal development. Therefore, Methocarbamol Tablets, USP should not be used in women who are or may become pregnant and particularly during early pregnancy unless in the judgment of the physician the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards (see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy ). Therefore, Methocarbamol tablets should not be used in women who are or may become pregnant and particularly during early pregnancy unless in the judgment of the physician the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards (see ).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Methocarbamol tablets are contraindicated in patients hypersensitive to methocarbamol or to any of the tablet components. CONTRAINDICATIONS Methocarbamol Tablets, USP are contraindicated in patients hypersensitive to methocarbamol or to any of the tablet components.
Interactions (label): DRUG INTERACTIONS See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS for interaction with CNS drugs and alcohol. Methocarbamol may inhibit the effect of pyridostigmine bromide. Therefore, methocarbamol should be used with caution in patients with myasthenia gravis receiving anticholinesterase agents. DRUG INTERACTIONS See and PRECAUTIONS for interaction with CNS drugs and alcohol.

=== METOLAZONE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metolazone is indicated for the treatment of salt and water retention including: • edema accompanying congestive heart failure; • edema accompanying renal diseases, including the nephrotic syndrome and states of diminished renal function. Metolazone is also indicated for the treatment of hypertension, alone or in combination with other antihypertensive drugs of a different class. Mykrox ® tablets, a more rapidly available form of metolazone, are intended for the treatment of new patients with mild to moderate hypertension. A dose titration is necessary if Mykrox ® tablets are to be substituted for Zaroxolyn ® tablets and other formulations of metolazone that share its slow and incomplete bioavailability, in the treatment of hypertension. Usage In Pregnancy The routine use of diuretics in an otherwise healthy woman is inappropriate and exposes mother and fetus to unnecessary hazard. Diuretics do not prevent development of toxemia of pregnancy and there is no evidence that they are useful in the treatment of developed toxemia. Edema during pregnancy may arise from pathologic causes or from the physiologic and mechanical consequence of pregnancy. Metolazone is indicated in pregnancy when edema is due to pathologic causes, just as it is in the absence of pregnancy (see PRECAUTIONS ). Dependent edema in pregnancy resulting from restriction of venous return by the expanded uterus is properly treated through elevation of the lower extremities and use of support hose; use of diuretics to lower intravascular volume in this case is illogical and unnecessary. There is hypervolemia during normal pregnancy which is harmful to neither the fetus nor the mother (in the absence of cardiovascular disease), but which is associated with edema, including generalized edema, in the majority of pregnant women. If this edema produces discomfort, increased recumbency will often provide relief. In rare instances, this edema may cause extreme discomfort which is not relieved by rest. In these cases, a short course of diuretics may be appropriate. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metolazone tablets, USP, are indicated for the treatment of salt and water retention including: edema accompanying congestive heart failure; edema accompanying renal diseases, including the nephrotic syndrome and states of diminished renal function. Metolazone tablets, USP, are also indicated for the treatment of hypertension, alone or in combination with other antihypertensive drugs of a different class. MYKROX Tablets, a more rapidly available form of metolazone, are intended for the treatment of new patients with mild to moderate hypertension. A dose titration is necessary if MYKROX Tablets are to be substituted for metolazone tablets, USP, in the treatment of hypertension. See package circular for MYKROX Tablets.. Diuretics do not prevent development of toxemia of pregnancy, and there is no evidence that they are useful in the treatment of developed toxemia. Edema during pregnancy may arise from pathologic causes or from the physiologic and mechanical consequences of pregnancy. Metolazone tablets, USP, are indicated in pregnancy when edema is due to pathologic causes, just as it is in the absence of pregnancy (see PRECAUTIONS ). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metolazone tablets are indicated for the treatment of salt and water retention including: edema accompanying congestive heart failure; edema accompanying renal diseases, including the nephrotic syndrome and states of diminished renal function. Metolazone tablets are also indicated for the treatment of hypertension, alone or in combination with other antihypertensive drugs of a different class. A dose titration is necessary if MYKROX Tablets are to be substituted for ZAROXOLYN and other formulations of metolazone in the treatment of hypertension. Metolazone is indicated in pregnancy when edema is due to pathologic causes, just as it is in the absence of pregnancy (see PRECAUTIONS). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metolazone tablets, USP, are indicated for the treatment of salt and water retention including: · edema accompanying congestive heart failure; · edema accompanying renal diseases, including the nephrotic syndrome and states of diminished renal function. See package circular for MYKROX Tablets. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metolazone tablets are indicated for the treatment of salt and water retention including: • edema accompanying congestive heart failure; • edema accompanying renal diseases, including the nephrotic syndrome and states of diminished renal function. A dose titration is necessary if MYKROX Tablets are to be substituted for metolazone tablets in the treatment of hypertension. Metolazone tablets are indicated in pregnancy when edema is due to pathologic causes, just as it is in the absence of pregnancy (see PRECAUTIONS).
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Effective dosage of metolazone tablets should be individualized according to indication and patient response. A single daily dose is recommended. Therapy with metolazone tablets should be titrated to gain an initial therapeutic response and to determine the minimal dose possible to maintain the desired therapeutic response. Usual Single Daily Dosage Schedules Suitable initial dosages will usually fall in the ranges given. Edema of cardiac failure: Metolazone tablets, 5 mg to 20 mg once daily. Edema of renal disease: Metolazone tablets, 5 mg to 20 mg once daily. Mild to moderate essential hypertension: Metolazone tablets, 2.5 mg to 5 mg once daily. New patients - If considered desirable to switch patients currently on Zaroxolyn ® tablets and other formulations of metolazone that share its slow and incomplete bioavailability to Mykrox ® , the dose should be determined by titration starting at one tablet (0.5 mg) once daily and increasing to two tablets (1 mg) once daily if needed. Treatment of Edematous States The time interval required for the initial dosage to produce an effect may vary. Diuresis and saluresis usually begin within one hour and persist for 24 hours or longer. When a desired therapeutic effect has been obtained, it may be advisable to reduce the dose if possible. The daily dose depends on the severity of the patient's condition, sodium intake, and responsiveness. A decision to change the daily dose should be based on the results of thorough clinical and laboratory evaluations. If antihypertensive drugs or diuretics are given concurrently with metolazone, more careful dosage adjustment may be necessary. For patients who tend to experience paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, it may be advisable to employ a larger dose to ensure prolongation of diuresis and saluresis for a full 24-hour period. Treatment of Hypertension The time interval required for the initial dosage regimen to show effect may vary from three or four days to three to six weeks in the treatment of elevated blood pressure. Doses should be adjusted at appropriate intervals to achieve maximum therapeutic effect. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Effective dosage of metolazone tablets, USP, should be individualized according to indication and patient response. Therapy with metolazone tablets, USP, should be titrated to gain an initial therapeutic response and to determine the minimal dose possible to maintain the desired therapeutic response. Edema of cardiac failure: Metolazone tablets, USP, 5 to 20 mg once daily. Edema of renal disease: Metolazone tablets, USP, 5 to 20 mg once daily. Mild to moderate essential hypertension: Metolazone tablets, USP, 2½ to 5 mg once daily. New patients – MYKROX Tablets (metolazone tablets, USP) (see MYKROX package circular). If considered desirable to switch patients currently on metolazone tablets, USP, to MYKROX, the dose should be determined by titration starting at one tablet (½ mg) once daily and increasing to two tablets (1 mg) once daily if needed. If antihypertensive drugs or diuretics are given concurrently with metolazone tablets, USP, more careful dosage adjustment may be necessary. Edema of cardiac failure: Metolazone tablets 5 to 20 mg once daily. Edema of renal disease: Metolazone tablets 5 to 20 mg once daily. Mild to moderate essential hypertension: Metolazone tablets 2.5 to 5 mg once daily. New patients –If considered desirable to switch patients currently on ZAROXOLYN and other formulations of metolazone to MYKROX, the dose should be determined by titration starting at one tablet (0.5 mg) once daily and increasing to two tablets (1 mg) once daily if needed. Edema of cardiac failure: Metolazone tablets 5 to 20 mg once daily Edema of renal disease: Metolazone tablets 5 to 20 mg once daily. Mild to moderate essential hypertension: Metolazone tablets 2½ to 5 mg once daily. New patients – MYKROX Tablets (metolazone tablets) (see MYKROX package circular). If considered desirable to switch patients currently on metolazone tablets to MYKROX, the dose should be determined by titration starting at one tablet (½ mg) once daily and increasing to two tablets (1 mg) once daily if needed. If antihypertensive drugs or diuretics are given concurrently with metolazone tablets more careful dosage adjustment may be necessary.
Warnings: WARNINGS Rapid Onset Hyponatremia and/or Hypokalemia Rarely, the rapid onset of severe hyponatremia and/or hypokalemia has been reported following initial doses of thiazide and non-thiazide diuretics. When symptoms consistent with severe electrolyte imbalance appear rapidly, drug should be discontinued and supportive measures should be initiated immediately. Parenteral electrolytes may be required. Appropriateness of therapy with this class of drugs should be carefully reevaluated. Hypokalemia Hypokalemia may occur with consequent weakness, cramps and cardiac dysrhythmias. Serum potassium should be determined at regular and appropriate intervals and dose reduction, potassium supplementation or addition of a potassium-sparing diuretic instituted whenever indicated. Hypokalemia is a particular hazard in patients who are digitalized or who have or have had a ventricular arrhythmia; dangerous or fatal arrhythmias may be precipitated. Hypokalemia is dose related. Concomitant Therapy Lithium In general, diuretics should not be given concomitantly with lithium because they reduce its renal clearance and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Read prescribing information for lithium preparations before use of such concomitant therapy. Furosemide Unusually large or prolonged losses of fluids and electrolytes may result when metolazone is administered concomitantly to patients receiving furosemide (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Other Antihypertensive Drugs When metolazone is used with other antihypertensive drugs, particular care must be taken to avoid excessive reduction of blood pressure, especially during initial therapy. Cross-Allergy Cross-allergy may occur when metolazone is given to patients known to be allergic to sulfonamide-derived drugs, thiazides, or quinethazone. Sensitivity Reactions Sensitivity reactions (e.g., angioedema, bronchospasm) may occur with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma and may occur with the first dose of metolazone. Hypokalemia Hypokalemia may occur with consequent weakness, cramps, and cardiac dysrhythmias. Serum potassium should be determined at regular and appropriate intervals, and dose reduction, potassium supplementation or addition of a potassium-sparing diuretic instituted whenever indicated. Furosemide Unusually large or prolonged losses of fluids and electrolytes may result when metolazone tablets, USP, are administered concomitantly to patients receiving furosemide (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). Other Antihypertensive Drugs When metolazone tablets, USP, are used with other antihypertensive drugs, particular care must be taken to avoid excessive reduction of blood pressure, especially during initial therapy. Cross-Allergy Cross-allergy may occur when metolazone tablets, USP, are given to patients known to be allergic to sulfonamide-derived drugs, thiazides, or quinethazone. Sensitivity Reactions Sensitivity reactions (e.g., angioedema, bronchospasm) may occur with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma and may occur with the first dose of metolazone tablets, USP. WARNINGS Rapid Onset Hyponatremia and/or Hypokalemia Rarely, the rapid onset of severe hyponatremia and/or hypokalemia has been reported following initial doses of thiazide and nonthiazide diuretics. Furosemide Unusually large or prolonged losses of fluids and electrolytes may result when metolazone is administered concomitantly to patients receiving furosemide (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions). Furosemide Unusually large or prolonged losses of fluids and electrolytes may result when metolazone tablets, USP, are administered concomitantly to patients receiving furosemide (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Furosemide Unusually large or prolonged losses of fluids and electrolytes may result when metolazone tablets, are administered concomitantly to patients receiving furosemide (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Other Antihypertensive Drugs When metolazone tablets are used with other antihypertensive drugs, particular care must be taken to avoid excessive reduction of blood pressure, especially during initial therapy. Cross-Allergy Cross-allergy may occur when metolazone tablets are given to patients known to be allergic to sulfonamide-derived drugs, thiazides, or quinethazone. Sensitivity Reactions Sensitivity reactions (e.g., angioedema, bronchospasm) may occur with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma and may occur with the first dose of metolazone tablets.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Anuria, hepatic coma or precoma, known allergy or hypersensitivity to metolazone.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Diuretics Furosemide and probably other loop diuretics given concomitantly with metolazone can cause unusually large or prolonged losses of fluid and electrolytes (see WARNINGS ). Other Antihypertensives When metolazone tablets, USP, are used with other antihypertensive drugs, care must be taken, especially during initial therapy. Dosage adjustments of other antihypertensives may be necessary. Alcohol, Barbiturates, And Narcotics The hypotensive effects of these drugs may be potentiated by the volume contraction that may be associated with metolazone therapy. Digitalis Glycosides Diuretic-induced hypokalemia can increase the sensitivity of the myocardium to digitalis. Serious arrhythmias can result. Corticosteroids Or ACTH May increase the risk of hypokalemia and increase salt and water retention. Lithium Serum lithium levels may increase (see WARNINGS ). Curariform Drugs Diuretic-induced hypokalemia may enhance neuromuscular blocking effects of curariform drugs (such as tubocurarine) – the most serious effect would be respiratory depression which could proceed to apnea. Accordingly, it may be advisable to discontinue metolazone tablets, USP, three days before elective surgery. Salicylates And Other Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs May decrease the antihypertensive effects of metolazone tablets, USP. Sympathomimetics Metolazone may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine, but this diminution is not sufficient to preclude effectiveness of the pressor agent for therapeutic use. Insulin And Oral Antidiabetic Agents See Glucose Tolerance under PRECAUTIONS, General . Methenamine Efficacy may be decreased due to urinary alkalizing effect of metolazone. Anticoagulants Metolazone, as well as other thiazide-like diuretics, may affect the hypoprothrombinemic response to anticoagulants; dosage adjustments may be necessary. Drug Interactions Diuretics Furosemide and probably other loop diuretics given concomitantly with metolazone can cause unusually large or prolonged losses of fluid and electrolytes (see WARNINGS). Other Antihypertensives When metolazone tablets are used with other antihypertensive drugs, care must be taken, especially during initial therapy. Lithium Serum lithium levels may increase (see WARNINGS). Accordingly, it may be advisable to discontinue metolazone three days before elective surgery. Salicylates and Other Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs May decrease the antihypertensive effects of metolazone tablets. Insulin and Oral Antidiabetic Agents See Glucose Tolerance under PRECAUTIONS, General. Accordingly, it may be advisable to discontinue metolazone tablets three days before elective surgery. Insulin And Oral Antidiabetic Agents See Glucose Tolerance under PRECAUTIONS , General .

=== OLMESARTAN MEDOXOMIL AND HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not indicated for the initial therapy of hypertension [see Dosage and Administration (2) ]. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including the class to which this drug principally belongs. There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be used alone, or in combination with other antihypertensive drugs. Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are a combination of olmesartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker and hydrochlorothiazide, a thiazide diuretic indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not indicated for the initial therapy of hypertension [see Dosage and Administration ( 2 )]. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular (CV) events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. Limitations of Use Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is not indicated for the initial therapy of hypertension. • Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are a combination of olmesartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker and hydrochlorothiazide, a thiazide diuretic indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is not indicated for initial therapy. Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not indicated for the initial therapy of hypertension [see Dosage and Administration ( 2 )] . Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not indicated for the initial therapy of hypertension [see Dosage and Administration (2) ] . Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are combination of olmesartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker and hydrochlorothiazide, a thiazide diuretic indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended starting dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is 40 mg/12.5 mg once daily in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with olmesartan monotherapy. Dose can be titrated up to 40 mg/25 mg if necessary. The recommended starting dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is 20 mg/12.5 mg once daily in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy or who experience dose-limiting adverse reactions with hydrochlorothiazide. Patients titrated to the individual components (olmesartan and hydrochlorothiazide) may instead receive the corresponding dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Recommended starting dose in patients not adequately controlled with olmesartan monotherapy, 40/12.5 mg ( 2 ) Recommended starting dose in patients not adequately controlled with hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy, 20/12.5 mg ( 2 ) Adjust dose after 2 to 4 weeks, as needed, to a maximum of 40 mg / 25 mg olmesartan / hydrochlorothiazide ( 2 ) 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION The recommended starting dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are 40/12.5 mg once daily in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with olmesartan monotherapy. Dose can be titrated up to 40 /25 mg if necessary. The recommended starting dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are 20/12.5 mg once daily in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with HCT monotherapy or who experience dose-limiting adverse reactions with hydrochlorothiazide. • Recommended starting dose in patients not adequately controlled with olmesartan monotherapy, 40/12.5 mg ( 2 ) • Recommended starting dose in patients not adequately controlled with hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy, 20/12.5 mg ( 2 ) • Adjust dose after 2 to 4 weeks, as needed, to a maximum of 40 mg / 25 mg olmesartan / hydrochlorothiazide ( 2 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended starting dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is 40/12.5 mg once daily in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with olmesartan monotherapy. The recommended starting dose of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is 20/12.5 mg once daily in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with HCT monotherapy or who experience dose-limiting adverse reactions with hydrochlorothiazide. • Recommended starting dose in patients not adequately controlled with olmesartan monotherapy, 40/12.5 mg ( 2 )
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated: In patients with hypersensitivity to any component of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets [see Adverse Reactions (6.1 , 6.2) ] In patients with anuria [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] For coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ]. Hypersensitivity to any component of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide ( 4 ) Anuria ( 4 ) Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated: • In patients with hypersensitivity to any component of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 , 6.2 )] • In patients with anuria [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] • For co-administration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 )] • Hypersensitivity to any component of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ( 4 ) • Anuria ( 4 ) • Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes.( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated: • In patients with hypersensitivity to any component of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 , 6.2 )] • In patients with anuria [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] • For coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 )]. • Hypersensitivity to any component of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ( 4 ) • Anuria ( 4 ) • Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated: • In patients with hypersensitivity to any component of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 , 6.2 )] • In patients with anuria [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] • For coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 )] • Hypersensitivity to any component of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ( 4 ) • Anuria ( 4 ) • Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes.( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated: In patients with hypersensitivity to any component of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets [see Adverse Reactions (6.1 , 6.2) ] In patients with anuria [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] For coadministration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes [see Drug Interactions (7.4) ] . Hypersensitivity to any component of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ( 4 ) Anuria ( 4 ) Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity ( 7.2 ) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): Reduced diuretic, natriuretic and antihypotensive effects; increased risk of renal toxicity ( 7.3 ) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia ( 7.4 ) Colesevelam hydrochloride: Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride dose ( 7.5 ) Antidiabetic drugs: Dosage adjustment may be required ( 7.6 ) Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides ( 7.6 ) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. Monitor serum potassium in such patients. 7.2 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor antagonists or hydrochlorothiazide. Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use. 7.3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors) Olmesartan medoxomil In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including olmesartan medoxomil) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving olmesartan medoxomil and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists, including olmesartan medoxomil may be attenuated by NSAIDs including selective COX-2 inhibitors. Hydrochlorothiazide In some patients the administration of a NSAID can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of thiazide diuretics. Therefore, monitor blood pressure closely. 7.4 Dual Blockade of the Renin Angiotensin System Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes [see Contraindications (4) ]. Avoid use of aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 mL/min). 7.5 Colesevelam Hydrochloride Concurrent administration of bile acid sequestering agent colesevelam hydrochloride reduces the systemic exposure and peak plasma concentration of olmesartan. Administration of olmesartan at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam hydrochloride decreased the drug interaction effect. Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before the colesevelam hydrochloride dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.6 The Use of Hydrochlorothiazide with Other Drugs When administered concurrently the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics: Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin): Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Ion exchange resins: Staggering the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and ion exchange resins (e.g., cholestyramine, colestipol) such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of resins would potentially minimize the interaction [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Corticosteroids, ACTH: Intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Agents increasing potassium levels may lead to increase in serum potassium ( 7.1 ). • Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity ( 7.2 ) • Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): Reduced diuretic, natriuretic and antihypertensive effects; increased risk of renal toxicity ( 7.3 ) • Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia ( 7.4 ) • Colesevelam hydrochloride: Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride dose ( 7.5 ) • Antidiabetic drugs: Dosage adjustment may be required ( 7.6 ) • Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides ( 7.6 ) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. Closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. Avoid use of aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before the colesevelam hydrochloride dose [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Ion exchange resins: Staggering the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and ion exchange resins (e.g., cholestyramine, colestipol) such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 - 6 hours after the administration of resins would potentially minimize the interaction [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity ( 7.2 ) • Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): Reduced diuretic, natriuretic and antihypotensive effects; increased risk of renal toxicity ( 7.3 ) • Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia ( 7.4 ) • Colesevelam hydrochloride: Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride dose ( 7.5 ) • Antidiabetic drugs: Dosage adjustment may be required ( 7.6 ) • Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides ( 7.6 ) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. 7.3 Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors Olmesartan medoxomil In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including olmesartan medoxomil) may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before the colesevelam hydrochloride dose [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Ion exchange resins: Staggering the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and ion exchange resins (e.g., cholestyramine, colestipol) such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 – 6 hours after the administration of resins would potentially minimize the interaction [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Lithium: Risk of lithium toxicity ( 7.2 ) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): Reduced diuretic, natriuretic and antihypotensive effects; increased risk of renal toxicity ( 7.3 ) Dual inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system: Increased risk of renal impairment, hypotension, and hyperkalemia ( 7.4 ) Colesevelam hydrochloride: Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride dose ( 7.5 ) Antidiabetic drugs: Dosage adjustment may be required ( 7.6 ) Cholestyramine and colestipol: Reduced absorption of thiazides ( 7.6 ) 7.1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Coadministration of olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia. Do not co-administer aliskiren with olmesartan medoxomil and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes [see Contraindications (4) ] . Consider administering olmesartan at least 4 hours before the colesevelam hydrochloride dose [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Ion exchange resins: Staggering the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and ion exchange resins (e.g., cholestyramine, colestipol) such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 – 6 hours after the administration of resins would potentially minimize the interaction [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] .

=== PIOGLITAZONE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Monotherapy and Combination Therapy Pioglitazone tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus in multiple clinical settings [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . Important Limitations of Use Pioglitazone tablets exert its antihyperglycemic effect only in the presence of endogenous insulin. Pioglitazone tablets should not be used to treat type 1 diabetes or diabetic ketoacidosis, as it would not be effective in these settings. Use caution in patients with liver disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . Pioglitazone is a thiazolidinedione and an agonist for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) gamma indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus in multiple clinical settings. ( 1, 14) Important Limitations of Use: Not for treatment of type 1 diabetes or diabetic ketoacidosis. ( 1 ) Use caution in patients with liver disease [see ] . ( 14) Important Limitations of Use: • Not for treatment of type 1 diabetes or diabetic ketoacidosis. () 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Monotherapy and Combination Therapy Pioglitazone tablets are indicated as adjuncts to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus in multiple clinical settings [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . Important Limitations of Use Pioglitazone tablets exert their antihyperglycemic effects only in the presence of endogenous insulin. ( 1 , 14 ) Important Limitations of Use: • Not for treatment of type 1 diabetes or diabetic ketoacidosis. (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Limitations of Use Pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets are not recommended to treat type 1 diabetes mellitus or diabetic ketoacidosis. Pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets are a combination of pioglitazone, a thiazolidinedione agonist of peroxisome proliferator receptor gamma, and metformin hydrochloride, a biguanide, indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. ( 1 ) Limitations of Use: Not recommended for treatment of type 1 diabetes or diabetic ketoacidosis. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Monotherapy and Combination Therapy Pioglitazone tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus in multiple clinical settings [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. Important Limitations of Use Pioglitazone tablets exert their antihyperglycemic effect only in the presence of endogenous insulin. Use caution in patients with liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) ]. Pioglitazone tablets are a thiazolidinedione and an agonist for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) gamma indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus in multiple clinical settings. ( 1 , 14 ) Important Limitations of Use: Not for treatment of type 1 diabetes or diabetic ketoacidosis. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets, are a combination of pioglitazone, a thiazolidinedione agonist of peroxisome proliferator receptor gamma, and metformin hydrochloride (HCl), a biguanide, indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. ( 1 ) Pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Initiate pioglitazone tablets at 15 mg or 30 mg once daily. Limit initial dose to 15 mg once daily in patients with NYHA Class I or II heart failure. (2.1) If there is inadequate glycemic control, the dose can be increased in 15 mg increments up to a maximum of 45 mg once daily. (2.1) Obtain liver tests before starting pioglitazone tablets. If abnormal, use caution when treating with pioglitazone tablets, investigate the probable cause, treat (if possible) and follow appropriately. Monitoring liver tests while on pioglitazone tablets are not recommended in patients without liver disease. ( 5.3 ) 2.1 Recommendations for All Patients Pioglitazone tablets should be taken once daily and can be taken without regard to meals. The recommended starting dose for patients without congestive heart failure is 15 mg or 30 mg once daily. The recommended starting dose for patients with congestive heart failure (NYHA Class I or II) is 15 mg once daily. The dose can be titrated in increments of 15 mg up to a maximum of 45 mg once daily based on glycemic response as determined by HbA1c. After initiation of pioglitazone tablets or with dose increase, monitor patients carefully for adverse reactions related to fluid retention such as weight gain, edema, and signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] . Liver tests (serum alanine and aspartate aminotransferases, alkaline phosphatase, and total bilirubin) should be obtained prior to initiating pioglitazone tablets. Routine periodic monitoring of liver tests during treatment with pioglitazone tablets are not recommended in patients without liver disease. Patients who have liver test abnormalities prior to initiation of pioglitazone tablets or who are found to have abnormal liver tests while taking pioglitazone tablets should be managed as described under Warnings and Precautions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.2 Concomitant Use with an Insulin Secretagogue or Insulin If hypoglycemia occurs in a patient co-administered pioglitazone tablets and an insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea), the dose of the insulin secretagogue should be reduced. If hypoglycemia occurs in a patient co-administered pioglitazone tablets and insulin, the dose of insulin should be decreased by 10% to 25%. Further adjustments to the insulin dose should be individualized based on glycemic response. 2.3 Concomitant Use with Strong CYP2C8 Inhibitors Coadministration of pioglitazone tablets and gemfibrozil, a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor, increases pioglitazone exposure approximately 3-fold. Therefore, the maximum recommended dose of pioglitazone tablets are 15 mg daily when used in combination with gemfibrozil or other strong CYP2C8 inhibitors [see Drug Interactions (7.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Initiate pioglitazone tablets at 15 mg or 30 mg once daily. • If there is inadequate glycemic control, the dose can be increased in 15 mg increments up to a maximum of 45 mg once daily. • Obtain liver tests before starting pioglitazone tablets. 2.1 Recommendations for All Patients Pioglitazone tablets should be taken once daily and can be taken without regard to meals. After initiation of pioglitazone tablets or with dose increase, monitor patients carefully for adverse reactions related to fluid retention such as weight gain, edema, and signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure [see Boxed Warning and ]. Patients who have liver test abnormalities prior to initiation of pioglitazone tablets or who are found to have abnormal liver tests while taking pioglitazone tablets should be managed as described under Warnings and Precautions [see and ] . Therefore, the maximum recommended dose of pioglitazone tablets are 15 mg daily when used in combination with gemfibrozil or other strong CYP2C8 inhibitors [see and ]. (2.1) • If there is inadequate glycemic control, the dose can be increased in 15 mg increments up to a maximum of 45 mg once daily. (2.1) • Obtain liver tests before starting pioglitazone tablets. (5.3) 2.1 Recommendations for All Patients Pioglitazone tablets should be taken once daily and can be taken without regard to meals. Routine periodic monitoring of liver tests during treatment with pioglitazone tablets is not recommended in patients without liver disease. Therefore, the maximum recommended dose of pioglitazone tablets is 15 mg daily when used in combination with gemfibrozil or other strong CYP2C8 inhibitors [see Drug Interactions (7.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Obtain liver tests before initiation. If abnormal, use caution when treating with pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride, investigate the probable cause, treat (if possible), and follow appropriately. ( 2.1 ) Take orally with meals to reduce gastrointestinal adverse reactions with metformin (2.10) Individualize the starting dose based on the patient’s current regimen and titrate the dosage gradually, as needed after assessing therapeutic response and tolerability. The maximum recommended total daily dosage is pioglitazone 45 mg and metformin 2,550 mg. ( 2.2 ) Recommended starting dosage in patients with NYHA Class I or Class II congestive heart failure is 15 mg of pioglitazone and 500 mg of metformin hydrochloride or 15 mg of pioglitazone and 850 mg of metformin hydrochloride orally once daily. ( 2.4 ) Prior to initiation, assess renal function with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). ( 2.2 ) Contraindicated in patients with eGFR below 30 mL/min Initiation is not recommended in patients with eGFR between 30 to 45 mL/min Assess risk/benefit of continuing pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride if eGFR falls below 45 mL/min Discontinue if eGFR falls below 30 mL/min Monitor patients for adverse events related to fluid retention after initiation and dose increases. ( 2.4 ) Pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride may need to be discontinued at time of, or prior to, iodinated contrast imaging procedures. ( 2.6 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information Obtain liver tests (serum alanine and aspartate aminotransferases, alkaline phosphatase, and total bilirubin) prior to initiating pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. Pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablet contains 15 mg of pioglitazone and 500 mg of metformin hydrochloride or 15 mg of pioglitazone and 850 mg of metformin hydrochloride in each tablet. Take pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets with meals to reduce gastrointestinal adverse reactions with metformin [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. If a dose is missed, do not double the next dose. 2.2 Recommended Dosage and Administration Recommended Starting Dosage Based on Current Regimen Individualize the starting dosage of pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets based on the patient's current regimen and the available strength of pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets (see Table 1). Table 1: Recommended Starting Dosage Based on the Patient’s Current Regimen *For dosage recommendations for patients with renal impairment and/or congestive heart failure, see Dosage and Administration (2.3 , 2.4) Current Regimen Starting Dosage of Pioglitazone and Metformin Hydrochloride tablets (15 mg of pioglitazone and 850 mg of metformin hydrochloride per tablet)* Not treated with either pioglitazone or metformin hydrochloride One tablet orally once daily Metformin hydrochloride One tablet orally once or twice daily. Select a dosage that is as close as possible to the current dosage of metformin hydrochloride Pioglitazone One tablet orally once daily Pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride Select a dosage that is as close as possible to the current dosage of pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride while not exceeding three tablets orally per day. Dosage Titration for Additional Glycemic Control Titrate the pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets dosage gradually, as needed, after assessing therapeutic response and tolerability. Pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets may be increased to a maximum recommended total daily dosage of three tablets per day (45 mg of pioglitazone and 2,550 mg of metformin hydrochloride). Total daily dosages of 2,550 mg of metformin hydrochloride may be taken in divided doses three times a day to reduce gastrointestinal adverse reactions [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. 2.3 Recommendations for Use in Patients with Renal Impairment Assess renal function prior to initiation of pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets and periodically thereafter [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. Pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) below 30 mL/min. Initiation of pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets in patients with an eGFR between 30 to 45 mL/min is not recommended. In patients taking pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets whose eGFR later falls below 45 mL/min, assess the benefit and risk of continuing therapy. Discontinue pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets if the patient's eGFR later falls below 30 mL/min [see Contraindications (4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. 2.4 Recommendations for Congestive Heart Failure Starting Dosage in Patients with NYHA Class I or II Congestive Heart Failure For patients with preexisting NYHA Class I or II congestive heart failure, the recommended starting dosage of pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets are 15 mg of pioglitazone and 500 mg of metformin or 15 mg of pioglitazone and 850 mg of metformin [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Monitoring for Fluid Retention and Dosage Modifications for Congestive Heart Failure After initiation of pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets or with dosage increase, monitor patients carefully for adverse reactions related to fluid retention as has been seen with pioglitazone (e.g., weight gain, edema and signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure). If congestive heart failure develops while taking pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets, consider discontinuation of pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets or dosage reduction of pioglitazone in pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 2.5 Coadministration with Strong CYP2C8 Inhibitors The maximum recommended dosage of pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets is one tablet (15 mg of pioglitazone and 850 mg of metformin hydrochloride) once daily when used in combination with gemfibrozil or other strong CYP2C8 inhibitors [see Drug Interactions (7.1) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2.6 Discontinuation for Iodinated Contrast Imaging Procedures Discontinue pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets at the time of, or prior to, an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 60 mL/min; in patients with a history of liver disease, alcoholism, or heart failure; or in patients who will be administered intra-arterial iodinated contrast. Re-evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure; restart pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets if renal function is stable [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . ( 2.1 ) If there is inadequate glycemic control, the dose can be increased in 15 mg increments up to a maximum of 45 mg once daily. ( 2.1 ) Obtain liver tests before starting pioglitazone tablets. Monitoring liver tests while on pioglitazone tablets is not recommended in patients without liver disease. After initiation of pioglitazone tablets or with dose increase, monitor patients carefully for adverse reactions related to fluid retention such as weight gain, edema, and signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ]. Patients who have liver test abnormalities prior to initiation of pioglitazone tablets or who are found to have abnormal liver tests while taking pioglitazone tablets should be managed as described under Warnings and Precautions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 2.2 Concomitant Use With an Insulin Secretagogue or Insulin If hypoglycemia occurs in a patient coadministered pioglitazone tablets and an insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea), the dose of the insulin secretagogue should be reduced. If hypoglycemia occurs in a patient coadministered pioglitazone tablets and insulin, the dose of insulin should be decreased by 10% to 25%. Therefore, the maximum recommended dose of pioglitazone tablets is 15 mg daily when used in combination with gemfibrozil or other strong CYP2C8 inhibitors [ see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Obtain liver tests before initiation. If abnormal, use caution when treating with pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets, investigate the probable cause, treat (if possible), and follow appropriately. ( 2.1 ) • Take orally with meals to reduce gastrointestinal adverse reactions with metformin ( 2.1 ) • Individualize the starting dose based on the patient’s current regimen and titrate the dosage gradually, as needed after assessing therapeutic response and tolerability. ( 2.2 ) • Recommended starting dosage in patients with NYHA Class I or Class II congestive heart failure is 15 mg of pioglitazone and 850 mg of metformin HCl orally once daily. ( 2.4 ) • Prior to initiation, assess renal function with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). ( 2.2 ) o Contraindicated in patients with eGFR below 30 mL/min o Initiation is not recommended in patients with eGFR between 30 to 45 mL/min o Assess risk/benefit of continuing pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets if eGFR falls below 45 mL/min o Discontinue if eGFR falls below 30 mL/min • Monitor patients for adverse events related to fluid retention after initiation and dose increases. ( 2.4 ) • Pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets may need to be discontinued at time of, or prior to, iodinated contrast imaging procedures. (2.6) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Information • Obtain liver tests (serum alanine and aspartate aminotransferases, alkaline phosphatase, and total bilirubin) prior to initiating pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] . • Pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets contains 15 mg of pioglitazone and 500 mg of metformin hydrochloride (HCl) and 15 mg of pioglitazone and 850 mg of metformin hydrochloride (HCl) in each tablet. • Take pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets with meals to reduce gastrointestinal adverse reactions with metformin [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)] . • If a dose is missed, do not double the next dose. Table 1: Recommended Starting Dosage Based on the Patient’s Current Regimen Current Regimen Starting Dosage of pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets (15 mg of pioglitazone and 850 mg of metformin HCl per tablet)* Not treated with either pioglitazone or metformin HCl One tablet orally once daily Metformin HCl One tablet orally once or twice daily. Select a dosage that is as close as possible to the current dosage of metformin HCl Pioglitazone One tablet orally once daily Pioglitazone and metformin HCl Select a dosage that is as close as possible to the current dosage of pioglitazone and metformin HCl while not exceeding three tablets orally per day. *For dosage recommendations for patients with renal impairment and/or congestive heart failure, see Dosage and Administration (2.3, 2.4) Dosage Titration for Additional Glycemic Control Titrate the pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets dosage gradually, as needed, after assessing therapeutic response and tolerability. Pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets may be increased to a maximum recommended total daily dosage of three tablets per day (45 mg of pioglitazone and 2,550 mg of metformin HCl). Total daily dosages of 2,550 mg of metformin HCl may be taken in divided doses three times a day to reduce gastrointestinal adverse reactions [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)] . 2.3 Recommendations for Use in Patients with Renal Impairment • Assess renal function prior to initiation of pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets and periodically thereafter [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)] . • Pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) below 30 mL/min. • Initiation of pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets in patients with an eGFR between 30 to 45 mL/min is not recommended. • In patients taking pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets whose eGFR later falls below 45 mL/min, assess the benefit and risk of continuing therapy. • Discontinue pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets if the patient’s eGFR later falls below 30 mL/min [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . 2.4 Recommendations for Congestive Heart Failure Starting Dosage in Patients with NYHA Class I or II Congestive Heart Failure For patients with preexisting NYHA Class I or II congestive heart failure, the recommended starting dosage of pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets is 15 mg of pioglitazone and 850 mg of metformin [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . If congestive heart failure develops while taking pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets, consider discontinuation of pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets or dosage reduction of pioglitazone in pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . 2.5 Coadministration with Strong CYP2C8 Inhibitors The maximum recommended dosage of pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablet is one tablet (15 mg of pioglitazone and 850 mg of metformin HCl) once daily when used in combination with gemfibrozil or other strong CYP2C8 inhibitors [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Re-evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure; restart pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets if renal function is stable [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] .
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Initiation in patients with established NYHA Class III or IV heart failure [see Boxed Warning ]. Use in patients with known hypersensitivity to pioglitazone or any other component of pioglitazone tablets. Initiation in patients with established New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class III or IV heart failure [see Boxed Warning ] . (4) Use in patients with known hypersensitivity to pioglitazone or any other component of pioglitazone tablets. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Initiation in patients with established NYHA Class III or IV heart failure [see Boxed Warning ]. • Use in patients with known hypersensitivity to pioglitazone or any other component of pioglitazone tablets. • Initiation in patients with established New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class III or IV heart failure [see Boxed Warning ] . • Initiation in patients with established New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class III or IV heart failure [see Boxed Warning] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Initiation in patients with established NYHA Class III or IV heart failure [see Boxed Warning ] . (4) • Use in patients with known hypersensitivity to pioglitazone or any other component of pioglitazone tablets. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride are contraindicated in patients with: Established NYHA Class III or IV heart failure at the time of pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride initiation [see Boxed Warning ] . Severe renal impairment (eGFR below 30 mL/min) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . A history of serious hypersensitivity to pioglitazone, metformin hydrochloride, or any of the excipients in pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets. Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis, including diabetic ketoacidosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. In patients with established New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class III or IV heart failure at the time of pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride initiation [see Boxed Warning ]. ( 4 ) In patients with severe renal impairment: (eGFR below 30 mL/min). ( 4 ) In patients with a history of serious hypersensitivity to pioglitazone, metformin hydrochloride, or any of the excepients in pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets. ( 4 ) In patients with acute or chronic metabolic acidosis, including diabetic ketoacidosis. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Initiation in patients with established NYHA Class III or IV heart failure [ see Boxed Warning ]. Initiation in patients with established New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class III or IV heart failure [ see Boxed Warning ]. ( 4 ) Use in patients with known hypersensitivity to pioglitazone or any other component of pioglitazone tablets. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • In patients with established New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class III or IV heart failure at the time of pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets initiation [see Boxed Warning]. ( 4 ) • In patients with severe renal impairment: (eGFR below 30 mL/min). ( 4 ) • In patients with a history of serious hypersensitivity to pioglitazone, metformin HCl, or any of the excipients in pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets. ( 4 ) • In patients with acute or chronic metabolic acidosis, including diabetic ketoacidosis. ( 4 ) Pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with: • Established NYHA Class III or IV heart failure at the time of pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets initiation [see Boxed Warning]. • Severe renal impairment (eGFR below 30 mL/min) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . • A history of serious hypersensitivity to pioglitazone, metformin HCl, or any of the excipients in pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets. • Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis, including diabetic ketoacidosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] .
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong CYP2C8 inhibitors (e.g., gemfibrozil) increase pioglitazone concentrations. Limit pioglitazone dose to 15 mg daily. (2.3 , 7.1) CYP2C8 inducers (e.g., rifampin) may decrease pioglitazone concentrations. (7.2) Topiramate may decrease pioglitazone concentrations. ( 7.3 ) 7.1 Strong CYP2C8 Inhibitors An inhibitor of CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil) significantly increases the exposure (area under the serum concentration-time curve or AUC) and half-life (t 1/2 ) of pioglitazone. Therefore, the maximum recommended dose of pioglitazone is 15 mg daily if used in combination with gemfibrozil or other strong CYP2C8 inhibitors [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 CYP2C8 Inducers An inducer of CYP2C8 (e.g., rifampin) may significantly decrease the exposure (AUC) of pioglitazone. Therefore, if an inducer of CYP2C8 is started or stopped during treatment with pioglitazone, changes in diabetes treatment may be needed based on clinical response without exceeding the maximum recommended daily dose of 45 mg for pioglitazone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.3 Topiramate A decrease in the exposure of pioglitazone and its active metabolites were noted with concomitant administration of pioglitazone and topiramate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . The clinical relevance of this decrease is unknown; however, when pioglitazone and topiramate are used concomitantly, monitor patients for adequate glycemic control. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong CYP2C8 inhibitors (e.g., gemfibrozil) increase pioglitazone concentrations. , • CYP2C8 inducers (e.g., rifampin) may decrease pioglitazone concentrations. • Topiramate may decrease pioglitazone concentrations. 7.1 Strong CYP2C8 Inhibitors An inhibitor of CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil) significantly increases the exposure (area under the serum concentration-time curve or AUC) and half-life (t 1/2 ) of pioglitazone. Therefore, the maximum recommended dose of pioglitazone is 15 mg daily if used in combination with gemfibrozil or other strong CYP2C8 inhibitors [see and ]. Therefore, if an inducer of CYP2C8 is started or stopped during treatment with pioglitazone, changes in diabetes treatment may be needed based on clinical response without exceeding the maximum recommended daily dose of 45 mg for pioglitazone [see ] . 7.3 Topiramate A decrease in the exposure of pioglitazone and its active metabolites were noted with concomitant administration of pioglitazone and topiramate [see ] . Limit pioglitazone tablets dose to 15 mg daily. ( 2.3 , 7.1 ) • CYP2C8 inducers (e.g., rifampin) may decrease pioglitazone concentrations. (7.2) • Topiramate may decrease pioglitazone concentrations. (7.3) 7.1 Strong CYP2C8 Inhibitors An inhibitor of CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil) significantly increases the exposure (area under the serum concentration-time curve or AUC) and half-life (t ½ ) of pioglitazone. Therefore, the maximum recommended dose of pioglitazone tablets is 15 mg daily if used in combination with gemfibrozil or other strong CYP2C8 inhibitors [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Therefore, if an inducer of CYP2C8 is started or stopped during treatment with pioglitazone tablets, changes in diabetes treatment may be needed based on clinical response without exceeding the maximum recommended daily dose of 45 mg for pioglitazone tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.3 Topiramate A decrease in the exposure of pioglitazone and its active metabolites were noted with concomitant administration of pioglitazone and topiramate [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . The clinical relevance of this decrease is unknown; however, when pioglitazone tablets and topiramate are used concomitantly, monitor patients for adequate glycemic control. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong CYP2C8 inhibitors (e.g., gemfibrozil): Limit pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride dose to 15 mg/850 mg daily. ( 7.1 ) CYP2C8 inducers (e.g., rifampin) may decrease pioglitazone concentrations. ( 7.2 ) Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may increase risk of lactic acidosis. Consider more frequent monitoring. ( 7.3 ) Drugs that reduce metformin clearance (such as ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine), may increase the accumulation of metformin. Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use. ( 7.4 ) Alcohol: Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake. ( 7.5 ) Use of insulin secretagogues or insulin use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia and may require dose reduction. ( 7.6 ) Topiramate may decrease pioglitazone concentrations. ( 7.8 ) 7.1 Strong CYP2C8 Inhibitors An inhibitor of CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil) significantly increases the exposure (area under the serum concentration-time curve or AUC) and half-life (t 1/2 ) of pioglitazone. Therefore, the maximum recommended dosage of pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride is 15 mg of pioglitazone and 850 mg of metformin hydrochloride once daily if used in combination with gemfibrozil or other strong CYP2C8 inhibitors [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Therefore, if an inducer of CYP2C8 is started or stopped during treatment with pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride, changes in diabetes treatment may be needed based on clinical response without exceeding the maximum recommended daily dosage of pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride (45 mg of pioglitazone and 2,550 mg of metformin hydrochloride) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.3 Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Topiramate or other carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (e.g., zonisamide, acetazolamide or dichlorphenamide) frequently causes a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non-anion gap, hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. Concomitant use of these drugs with pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Consider more frequent monitoring of these patients. 7.4 Drugs that Reduce Metformin Clearance Concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2]/multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE] inhibitors such as ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.5 Alcohol Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism. Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride. 7.6 Insulin Secretagogues or Insulin Coadministration of pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride with an insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea) or insulin may increase the risk of hypoglycemia. If hypoglycemia occurs in a patient coadministered pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride and an insulin secretagogue (e.g., sulfonylurea), the dose of the insulin secretagogue should be reduced. 7.7 Drugs Affecting Glycemic Control Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control. These drugs include the thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid products, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics, calcium channel blockers, and isoniazid. When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride, the patient should be closely observed for loss of blood glucose control. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride, the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia. 7.8 Topiramate A decrease in the exposure of pioglitazone and its active metabolites were noted with concomitant administration of pioglitazone and topiramate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. The clinical relevance of this decrease is unknown; however, when pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride and topiramate are used concomitantly, monitor patients for adequate glycemic control. ( 2.3 , 7.1 ) CYP2C8 inducers (e.g., rifampin) may decrease pioglitazone concentrations. ( 7.2 ) Topiramate may decrease pioglitazone concentrations. Therefore, the maximum recommended dose of pioglitazone is 15 mg daily if used in combination with gemfibrozil or other strong CYP2C8 inhibitors [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Therefore, if an inducer of CYP2C8 is started or stopped during treatment with pioglitazone hydrochloride, changes in diabetes treatment may be needed based on clinical response without exceeding the maximum recommended daily dose of 45 mg for pioglitazone [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 7.3 Topiramate A decrease in the exposure of pioglitazone and its active metabolites were noted with concomitant administration of pioglitazone and topiramate [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong CYP2C8 inhibitors (e.g., gemfibrozil): Limit pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets dose to 15 mg/850 mg daily. ( 7.1 ) • CYP2C8 inducers (e.g., rifampin) may decrease pioglitazone concentrations. ( 7.2 ) • Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may increase risk of lactic acidosis. ( 7.3 ) • Drugs that reduce metformin clearance (such as ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine), may increase the accumulation of metformin. ( 7.4 ) • Alcohol: Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake. ( 7.5 ) • Use of insulin secretagogues or insulin use may increase the risk for hypoglycemia and may require dose reduction. ( 7.6 ) • Topiramate may decrease pioglitazone concentrations. ( 7.8 ) 7.1 Strong CYP2C8 Inhibitors An inhibitor of CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil) significantly increases the exposure (area under the serum concentration-time curve or AUC) and half-life (t1/2) of pioglitazone. Therefore, the maximum recommended dosage of pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets is 15 mg of pioglitazone and 850 mg of metformin HCl once daily if used in combination with gemfibrozil or other strong CYP2C8 inhibitors [see Dosage and Administration (2.3), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Therefore, if an inducer of CYP2C8 is started or stopped during treatment with pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets, changes in diabetes treatment may be needed based on clinical response without exceeding the maximum recommended daily dosage of pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets (45 mg of pioglitazone and 2,550 mg of metformin HCl) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7.4 Drugs that Reduce Metformin Clearance Concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2]/multidrug and toxin extrusion [MATE] inhibitors such as ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets. When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets, the patient should be closely observed for loss of blood glucose control. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving pioglitazone and metformin hydrochloride tablets, the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia. 7.8 Topiramate A decrease in the exposure of pioglitazone and its active metabolites were noted with concomitant administration of pioglitazone and topiramate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] .

=== RANOLAZINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ranolazine extended-release tablet is indicated for the treatment of chronic angina. Ranolazine extended-release tablet may be used with beta-blockers, nitrates, calcium channel blockers, anti-platelet therapy, lipid-lowering therapy, ACE inhibitors, and angiotensin receptor blockers. Ranolazine extended-release tablet is an antianginal indicated for the treatment of chronic angina. ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ranolazine extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of chronic angina. Ranolazine extended-release tablets may be used with beta-blockers, nitrates, calcium channel blockers, anti-platelet therapy, lipid-lowering therapy, ACE inhibitors, and angiotensin receptor blockers. Ranolazine extended-release tablets are an antianginal indicated for the treatment of chronic angina. Ranolazine extended-release tablets may be used with beta-blockers, nitrates, calcium channel blockers, anti- platelet therapy, lipid-lowering therapy, ACE inhibitors, and angiotensin receptor blockers. Ranolazine extended-release tablets are antianginal indicated for the treatment of chronic angina. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ranolazine extended-release tablets are an antianginal indicated for the treatment of chronic angina. ( 1 ) Ranolazine extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of chronic angina. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Ranolazine extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of chronic angina.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 500 mg twice daily and increase to 1000 mg twice daily, based on clinical symptoms ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Dosing Information Initiate ranolazine extended-release tablet dosing at 500 mg twice daily and increase to 1000 mg twice daily, as needed, based on clinical symptoms. Take ranolazine extended-release tablet with or without meals. Swallow ranolazine extended-release tablet whole; do not crush, break, or chew. The maximum recommended daily dose of ranolazine extended-release tablet is 1000 mg twice daily. If a dose of ranolazine extended-release tablet is missed, take the prescribed dose at the next scheduled time; do not double the next dose. 2.2 Dose Adjustments in Specific Populations Dose adjustments may be needed when ranolazine extended-release tablet is taken in combination with certain other drugs [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Limit the maximum dose of ranolazine extended-release tablet to 500 mg twice daily in patients on moderate CYP3A inhibitors such as diltiazem, verapamil, and erythromycin. Use of ranolazine extended-release tablet with strong CYP3A inhibitors is contraindicated [ see Contraindications (4) , Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Use of P-gp inhibitors, such as cyclosporine, may increase exposure to ranolazine extended-release tablet. Titrate ranolazine extended-release tablet based on clinical response [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 500 mg twice daily and increase to 1,000 mg twice daily, based on clinical symptoms ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Dosing Information Initiate ranolazine extended-release tablets dosing at 500 mg twice daily and increase to 1000 mg twice daily, as needed, based on clinical symptoms. Take ranolazine extended-release tablets with or without meals. Swallow ranolazine extended-release tablets whole; do not crush, break, or chew. The maximum recommended daily dose of ranolazine extended-release tablets is 1000 mg twice daily. If a dose of ranolazine extended-release tablets is missed, take the prescribed dose at the next scheduled time; do not double the next dose. 2.2 Dose Modification Dose adjustments may be needed when ranolazine extended-release tablets are taken in combination with certain other drugs [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Limit the maximum dose of ranolazine extended-release tablets to 500 mg twice daily in patients on moderate CYP3A inhibitors such as diltiazem, verapamil, and erythromycin. Use of ranolazine with strong CYP3A inhibitors is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) , Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. Use of P-gp inhibitors, such as cyclosporine, may increase exposure to ranolazine. Titrate ranolazine based on clinical response [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 500 mg twice daily and increase to 1000 mg twice daily, based on clinical symptoms ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Dosing Information Initiate ranolazine extended-release tablets dosing at 500 mg twice daily and increase to 1000 mg twice daily, as needed, based on clinical symptoms. Use of ranolazine extended-release tablets with strong CYP3A inhibitors is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) , Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. Use of P-gp inhibitors, such as cyclosporine, may increase exposure to ranolazine extended-release tablets. Titrate ranolazine extended-release tablets based on clinical response [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 500 mg twice daily and increase to 1000 mg twice daily, based on clinical symptoms ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Dosing Information Initiate ranolazine extended-release tablets dosing at 500 mg twice daily and increase to1000 mg twice daily, as needed, based on clinical symptoms. 2.2 Dose Modification Dose adjustments may be needed when ranolazine extended-release tablets are taken in combination with certain other drugs [see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7.1 )] . Use of ranolazine extended-release tablets with strong CYP3A inhibitors is contraindicated [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ), DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7.1 )] . Titrate ranolazine extended-release tablets based on clinical response [see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7.1 )] . 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION 500 mg twice daily and increase to 1000 mg twice daily, based on clinical symptoms ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Dosing Information Initiate ranolazine extended-release tablet dosing at 500 mg twice daily and increase to 1000 mg twice daily, as needed, based on clinical symptoms. 2.2 Dose Modification Dose adjustments may be needed when ranolazine extended-release tablet is taken in combination with certain other drugs [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . Use of ranolazine extended-release tablet with strong CYP3A inhibitors is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) , Drug Interactions (7.1) ].
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ranolazine is contraindicated in patients: Taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] Taking inducers of CYP3A [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] With liver cirrhosis [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] Strong CYP3A inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, clarithromycin, nelfinavir) ( 4 , 7.1 ) CYP3A inducers (e.g., rifampin, phenobarbital, St. John's wort) ( 4 , 7.1 ) Liver cirrhosis ( 4 , 8.6 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ranolazine is contraindicated in patients: • Taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] • Taking inducers of CYP3A [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] • With liver cirrhosis [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] • Strong CYP3A inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, clarithromycin, nelfinavir) ( 4 , 7.1 ) • CYP3A inducers (e.g., rifampin, phenobarbital, St. John’s wort) ( 4 , 7.1 ) • Liver cirrhosis ( 4 , 8.6 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ranolazine extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients: Taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] Taking inducers of CYP3A [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] With liver cirrhosis [see Use in Specific Population (8.6) ] Strong CYP3A inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, clarithromycin, nelfinavir) ( 4, 7.1 ) CYP3A inducers (e.g., rifampin, phenobarbital, St. John's wort) ( 4, 7.1 ) Liver cirrhosis( 4 , 8.6 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ranolazine extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients: Taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] Taking inducers of CYP3A [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] With liver cirrhosis [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] Strong CYP3A inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, clarithromycin, nelfinavir) ( 4 , 7.1 ) CYP3A inducers (e.g., rifampin, phenobarbital, St.John’s wort) ( 4 , 7.1 ) Liver cirrhosis ( 4 , 8.6 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ranolazine extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients: Taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] Taking inducers of CYP3A [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] With liver cirrhosis [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] Strong CYP3A inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, clarithromycin, nelfinavir) ( 4 , 7.1 ) CYP3A inducers (e.g., rifampin, phenobarbital, St. John’s wort) ( 4 , 7.1 ) Liver cirrhosis ( 4 , 8.6 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Strong CYP3A inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, clarithromycin, nelfinavir) ( 4 , 7.1 ) CYP3A inducers (e.g., rifampin, phenobarbital, St. John's wort) ( 4 , 7.1 ) Liver cirrhosis ( 4 , 8.6 ) Ranolazine is contraindicated in patients: Taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A [see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7.1 )] Taking inducers of CYP3A [see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7.1 )] With liver cirrhosis [see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8.6 )] 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ranolazine is contraindicated in patients: • Taking strong inhibitors of CYP3A [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] • Taking inducers of CYP3A [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] • With liver cirrhosis [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] · Strong CYP3A inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, clarithromycin, nelfinavir) ( 4 , 7.1 ) · CYP3A inducers (e.g., rifampin, phenobarbital, St. John’s wort) ( 4 , 7.1 ) · Liver cirrhosis ( 4 , 8.6 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Moderate CYP3A inhibitors (e.g., diltiazem, verapamil, erythromycin): Limit ranolazine to 500 mg twice daily. ( 7.1 ) P-gp inhibitors (e.g., cyclosporine): Ranolazine exposure increased. Titrate ranolazine based on clinical response. ( 7.1 ) CYP3A substrates: Limit simvastatin to 20 mg when used with ranolazine. Doses of other sensitive CYP3A substrates (e.g., lovastatin) and CYP3A substrates with narrow therapeutic range (e.g., cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus) may need to be reduced with ranolazine. ( 7.2 ) OCT2 substrates: Limit the dose of metformin to 1700 mg daily when used with ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily. Doses of other OCT2 substrates may require adjusted doses. ( 7.2 ) Drugs transported by P-gp (e.g., digoxin), or drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants) may need reduced doses when used with ranolazine. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Ranolazine Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Do not use ranolazine with strong CYP3A inhibitors, including ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin, nefazodone, nelfinavir, ritonavir, indinavir, and saquinavir [see Contraindications (4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors Limit the dose of ranolazine to 500 mg twice daily in patients on moderate CYP3A inhibitors, including diltiazem, verapamil, erythromycin, fluconazole, and grapefruit juice or grapefruit-containing products [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. P-gp Inhibitors Concomitant use of ranolazine and P-gp inhibitors, such as cyclosporine, may result in increases in ranolazine concentrations. Titrate ranolazine based on clinical response in patients concomitantly treated with predominant P-gp inhibitors such as cyclosporine [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. CYP3A Inducers Do not use ranolazine with CYP3A inducers such as rifampin, rifabutin, rifapentine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, carbamazepine, and St. John's wort [see Contraindications (4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.2 Effects of Ranolazine on Other Drugs Drugs Metabolized by CYP3A Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on any dose of ranolazine to 20 mg once daily, when ranolazine is co-administered. Dose adjustment of other sensitive CYP3A substrates (e.g., lovastatin) and CYP3A substrates with a narrow therapeutic range (e.g., cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus) may be required as ranolazine may increase plasma concentrations of these drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Drugs Transported by P-gp Concomitant use of ranolazine and digoxin results in increased exposure to digoxin. The dose of digoxin may have to be adjusted [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 The exposure to CYP2D6 substrates, such as tricyclic antidepressants and antipsychotics, may be increased during co-administration with ranolazine, and lower doses of these drugs may be required. Drugs Transported by OCT2 In subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus, concomitant use of ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily and metformin results in increased plasma levels of metformin. When ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily is co-administered with metformin, metformin dose should not exceed 1700 mg/day. Monitor blood glucose levels and risks associated with high exposures of metformin. Metformin exposure was not significantly increased when given with ranolazine 500 mg twice daily [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Moderate CYP3A inhibitors (e.g., diltiazem, verapamil, erythromycin): Limit ranolazine extended-release tablets to 500 mg twice daily. ( 7.1 ) • P-gp inhibitors (e.g., cyclosporine): Ranolazine exposure increased. ( 7.1 ) • CYP3A substrates: Limit simvastatin to 20 mg when used with ranolazine. ( 7.2 ) • OCT2 substrates: Limit the dose of metformin to 1,700 mg daily when used with ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily. ( 7.2 ) • Drugs transported by P-gp (e.g., digoxin), or drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants) may need reduced doses when used with ranolazine. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Ranolazine Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Do not use ranolazine with strong CYP3A inhibitors, including ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin, nefazodone, nelfinavir, ritonavir, indinavir, and saquinavir [see Contraindications (4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors Limit the dose of ranolazine extended-release tablets to 500 mg twice daily in patients on moderate CYP3A inhibitors, including diltiazem, verapamil, erythromycin, fluconazole, and grapefruit juice or grapefruit-containing products [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. John’s wort [see Contraindications (4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.2 Effects of Ranolazine on Other Drugs Drugs Metabolized by CYP3A Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on any dose of ranolazine extended-release tablets to 20 mg once daily, when ranolazine is co-administered. Dose adjustment of other sensitive CYP3A substrates (e.g., lovastatin) and CYP3A substrates with a narrow therapeutic range (e.g., cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus) may be required as ranolazine may increase plasma concentrations of these drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Drugs Transported by OCT2 In subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus, concomitant use of ranolazine extended-release tablets 1000 mg twice daily and metformin results in increased plasma levels of metformin. When ranolazine extended-release tablets 1000 mg twice daily are co-administered with metformin, metformin dose should not exceed 1,700 mg/day. Metformin exposure was not significantly increased when given with ranolazine extended-release tablets 500 mg twice daily [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Moderate CYP3A inhibitors (e.g., diltiazem, verapamil, erythromycin): Limit ranolazine extended-release tablets to 500 mg twice daily. Titrate ranolazine extended-release tablets based on clinical response. ( 7.1 ) CYP3A substrates: Limit simvastatin to 20 mg when used with ranolazine extended-release tablets. Doses of other sensitive CYP3A substrate (e.g., lovastatin) and CYP3A substrates with narrow therapeutic range (e.g., cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus) may need to be reduced with ranolazine extended-release tablets. ( 7.2 ) OCT2 substrates: Limit the dose of metformin to 1700 mg daily when used with ranolazine extended-release tablets 1000 mg twice daily. ( 7.2 ) Drugs transported by P-gp (e.g., digoxin), or drugs metabolized by CYP2D6 (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants) may need reduced doses when used with ranolazine extended-release tablets. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Ranolazine Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Do not use ranolazine extended-release tablets with strong CYP3A inhibitors, including ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin, nefazodone, nelfinavir, ritonavir, indinavir, and saquinavir [see Contraindications (4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . P-gp Inhibitors Concomitant use of ranolazine extended-release tablets and P-gp inhibitors, such as cyclosporine, may result in increases in ranolazine concentrations. Titrate ranolazine extended-release tablets based on clinical response in patients concomitantly treated with predominant P-gp inhibitors such as cyclosporine [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. CYP3A Inducers Do not use ranolazine extended-release tablets with CYP3A inducers such as rifampin, rifabutin, rifapentine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, carbamazepine, and St. John's wort [see Contraindications (4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Dose adjustment of other sensitive CYP3A substrates (e.g., lovastatin) and CYP3A substrates with a narrow therapeutic range (e.g., cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus) may be required as ranolazine extended-release tablets may increase plasma concentrations of these drugs [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 The exposure to CYP2D6 substrates, such as tricyclic antidepressants and antipsychotics, may be increased during co-administration with ranolazine extended-release tablets, and lower doses of these drugs may be required. Doses of other sensitive CYP3A substrates (e.g., lovastatin) and CYP3A substrates with narrow therapeutic range (e.g., cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus) may need to be reduced with Ranolazine extended-release tablets. The dose of digoxin may have to be adjusted [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] Drugs Metabolized by CYP2D6 The exposure to CYP2D6 substrates, such as tricyclic antidepressants and antipsychotics, may be increased during co-administration with Ranolazine extended-release tablets, and lower doses of these drugs may be required. When Ranolazine extended-release tablets 1000 mg twice daily is co-administered with metformin, metformin dose should not exceed 1700 mg/day. Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors Limit the dose of ranolazine extended-release tablets to 500 mg twice daily in patients on moderate CYP3A inhibitors, including diltiazem, verapamil, erythromycin, fluconazole, and grapefruit juice or grapefruit-containing products [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Titrate ranolazine extended-release tablets based on clinical response in patients concomitantly treated with predominant P-gp inhibitors such as cyclosporine [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ] . The dose of digoxin may have to be adjusted [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Metformin exposure was not significantly increased when given with ranolazine extended-release tablets 500 mg twice daily [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Ranolazine Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Do not use ranolazine with strong CYP3A inhibitors, including ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin, nefazodone, nelfinavir, ritonavir, indinavir, and saquinavir [see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ), CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )] . Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors Limit the dose of ranolazine to 500 mg twice daily in patients on moderate CYP3A inhibitors, including diltiazem, verapamil, erythromycin, fluconazole, and grapefruit juice or grapefruit-containing products [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2.2 ), CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. Titrate ranolazine based on clinical response in patients concomitantly treated with predominant P-gp inhibitors such as cyclosporine [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2.2 )] . John's wort [see CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ), CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )] . Dose adjustment of other sensitive CYP3A substrates (e.g., lovastatin) and CYP3A substrates with a narrow therapeutic range (e.g., cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus) may be required as ranolazine may increase plasma concentrations of these drugs [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. The dose of digoxin may have to be adjusted [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )] . Metformin exposure was not significantly increased when given with ranolazine extended-release tablets 500 mg twice daily [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ( 12.3 )]. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Ranolazine Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Do not use ranolazine with strong CYP3A inhibitors, including ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin, nefazodone, nelfinavir, ritonavir, indinavir, and saquinavir [see Contraindications (4), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Moderate CYP3A Inhibitors Limit the dose of ranolazine to 500 mg twice daily in patients on moderate CYP3A inhibitors, including diltiazem, verapamil, erythromycin, fluconazole, and grapefruit juice or grapefruit-containing products [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Titrate ranolazine based on clinical response in patients concomitantly treated with predominant P-gp inhibitors such as cyclosporine [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )]. John’s wort [see Contraindications (4) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . The dose of digoxin may have to be adjusted [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Metformin exposure was not significantly increased when given with ranolazine 500 mg twice daily [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )].

=== SILDENAFIL CITRATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sildenafil tablets are indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. Sildenafil is a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sildenafil citrate is indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. Sildenafil citrate is a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED) ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Sildenafil tablets are indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (WHO Group I) in adults to improve exercise ability and delay clinical worsening. The delay in clinical worsening was demonstrated when sildenafil tablets were added to background epoprostenol therapy [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. Studies establishing effectiveness were short-term (12 to 16 weeks), and included predominately patients with New York Heart Association (NYHA) Functional Class II-III symptoms and idiopathic etiology (71%) or associated with connective tissue disease (CTD) (25%). Limitation of Use: Adding sildenafil to bosentan therapy does not result in any beneficial effect on exercise capacity [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ]. Sildenafil is a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) (WHO Group I) in adults to improve exercise ability and delay clinical worsening. Studies establishing effectiveness were short-term (12 to 16 weeks), and included predominately patients with NYHA Functional Class II-III symptoms. Etiologies were idiopathic (71%) or associated with connective tissue disease (25%). ( 1 ) Limitation of Use : Adding sildenafil to bosentan therapy does not result in any beneficial effect on exercise capacity. ( 1 , 14 ) 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Adults Sildenafil for oral suspension is indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) (World Health Organization [WHO] Group I) in adults to improve exercise ability and delay clinical worsening [see Clinical Studies (14)] . Pediatric use information is approved for Viatris Specialty LLC's, REVATIO (sildenafil) for Oral Suspension. However, due to Viatris Specialty LLC's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information Adults Sildenafil is a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) (World Health Organization [WHO] Group I) in adults to improve exercise ability and delay clinical worsening. (1) 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Sildenafil tablets are indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. Sildenafil tablet is a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED) (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE VIAGRA is indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. VIAGRA is a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED) ( 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Adults Sildenafil for oral suspension is indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) (World Health Organization [WHO] Group I) in adults to improve exercise ability and delay clinical worsening [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . However, due to Viatris Specialty LLC's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. Adults Sildenafil is a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) (World Health Organization [WHO] Group I) in adults to improve exercise ability and delay clinical worsening. ( 1 ) Sildenafil tablets is a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED)
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For most patients, the recommended dose is 50 mg taken, as needed, approximately 1 hour before sexual activity. However, sildenafil tablets may be taken anywhere from 30 minutes to 4 hours before sexual activity ( 2.1 ) Based on effectiveness and toleration, may increase to a maximum of 100 mg or decrease to 25 mg ( 2.1 ) Maximum recommended dosing frequency is once per day ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Dosage Information For most patients, the recommended dose is 50 mg taken, as needed, approximately 1 hour before sexual activity. However, sildenafil tablets may be taken anywhere from 30 minutes to 4 hours before sexual activity. The maximum recommended dosing frequency is once per day. Based on effectiveness and toleration, the dose may be increased to a maximum recommended dose of 100 mg or decreased to 25 mg. 2.2 Use with Food Sildenafil tablets may be taken with or without food. 2.3 Dosage Adjustments in Specific Situations Sildenafil tablets was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates and its administration in patients who use nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form is therefore contraindicated [ see Contraindications (4.1) , Drug Interactions (7.1) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. When sildenafil tablets are co-administered with an alpha-blocker, patients should be stable on alpha-blocker therapy prior to initiating sildenafil tablets treatment and sildenafil tablets should be initiated at 25 mg [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Drug Interactions (7.2) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 2.4 Dosage Adjustments Due to Drug Interactions Ritonavir The recommended dose for ritonavir-treated patients is 25 mg prior to sexual activity and the recommended maximum dose is 25 mg within a 48 hour period because concomitant administration increased the blood levels of sildenafil by 11-fold [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) , Drug Interactions (7.4) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. CYP3A4 Inhibitors Consider a starting dose of 25 mg in patients treated with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, or saquinavir) or erythromycin. Clinical data have shown that co-administration with saquinavir or erythromycin increased plasma levels of sildenafil by about 3 fold [ see Drug Interactions (7.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.5 Dosage Adjustments in Special Populations Consider a starting dose of 25 mg in patients > 65 years, patients with hepatic impairment (e.g., cirrhosis), and patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/minute) because administration of sildenafil tablets in these patients resulted in higher plasma levels of sildenafil [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.5 , 8.6, 8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.3 Dosage Adjustments in Specific Situations Sildenafil citrate was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates and its administration in patients who use nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form is therefore contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4.1 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) ] . When sildenafil tablets are co-administered with an alpha-blocker, patients should be stable on alpha-blocker therapy prior to initiating sildenafil tablets treatment and sildenafil tablets should be initiated at 25 mg [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.2 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) ]. 2.4 Dosage Adjustments Due to Drug Interactions Ritonavir The recommended dose for ritonavir-treated patients is 25 mg prior to sexual activity and the recommended maximum dose is 25 mg within a 48 hour period because concomitant administration increased the blood levels of sildenafil by 11-fold [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.4 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Clinical data have shown that co-administration with saquinavir or erythromycin increased plasma levels of sildenafil by about 3 fold [ see Drug Interactions ( 7.4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. 2.5 Dosage Adjustments in Special Populations Consider a starting dose of 25 mg in patients > 65 years, patients with hepatic impairment (e.g., cirrhosis), and patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/minute) because administration of sildenafil tablets in these patients resulted in higher plasma levels of sildenafil [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 , 8.6 , 8.7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Tablet: 20 mg three times a day, 4-6 hours apart ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Sildenafil Tablets The recommended dose of sildenafil tablets is 20 mg three times a day. Administer sildenafil tablets doses 4-6 hours apart. In the clinical trial no greater efficacy was achieved with the use of higher doses. Treatment with doses higher than 20 mg three times a day is not recommended. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Adults: 20 mg three times a day. (2.1) 2.1 Recommended Dosage in Adults Oral Dosage The recommended dosage of sildenafil for oral suspension is 20 mg three times a day. [see Clinical Studies (14)] . Pediatric use information is approved for Viatris Specialty LLC's, REVATIO (sildenafil) for Oral Suspension. However, due to Viatris Specialty LLC's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 2.3 Reconstitution of the Powder for Oral Suspension Note: Reconstitute the contents of the bottle with a total volume of 90 mL (60 mL followed by 30 mL) . Refer to the detailed instructions below. Tap the bottle to loosen the powder. Add 60 mL of water to the bottle. Replace the cap and shake the bottle vigorously for a minimum of 30 seconds. Add another 30 mL of water to the bottle. Remove cap and press the bottle adaptor into the neck of the bottle. Replace the cap on the bottle. Write the expiration date of the reconstituted oral suspension on the bottle label (the expiration date of the reconstituted oral suspension is 60 days from the date of reconstitution). Incompatibilities Do not mix with any other medication or additional flavoring agent. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION •For most patients, the recommended dose is 50 mg taken, as needed, approximately 1 hour before sexual activity. However, sildenafil tablets may be taken anywhere from 30 minutes to 4 hours before sexual activity (2.1) •Based on effectiveness and toleration, may increase to a maximum of 100 mg or decrease to 25 mg (2.1) •Maximum recommended dosing frequency is once per day (2.1) 2.1 Dosage Information For most patients, the recommended dose is 50 mg taken, as needed, approximately 1 hour before sexual activity. 2.3 Dosage Adjustments in Specific Situations Sildenafil tablets were shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates and its administration in patients who use nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form is therefore contraindicated [see Contraindications (4.1), Drug Interactions (7.1), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. When sildenafil tablets are co-administered with an alpha-blocker, patients should be stable on alpha-blocker therapy prior to initiating sildenafil tablets treatment and sildenafil tablets should be initiated at 25 mg [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Drug Interactions (7.2), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. 2.4 Dosage Adjustments Due to Drug Interactions Ritonavir The recommended dose for ritonavir-treated patients is 25 mg prior to sexual activity and the recommended maximum dose is 25 mg within a 48 hour period because concomitant administration increased the blood levels of sildenafil by 11-fold [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6), Drug Interactions (7.4), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Clinical data have shown that co-administration with saquinavir or erythromycin increased plasma levels of sildenafil by about 3 fold [see Drug Interactions (7.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2.5 Dosage Adjustments in Special Populations Consider a starting dose of 25 mg in patients > 65 years, patients with hepatic impairment (e.g., cirrhosis), and patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/minute) because administration of sildenafil tablets in these patients resulted in higher plasma levels of sildenafil [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5, 8.6, 8.7) andClinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For most patients, the recommended dose is 50 mg taken, as needed, approximately 1 hour before sexual activity. However, VIAGRA may be taken anywhere from 30 minutes to 4 hours before sexual activity ( 2.1 ) • Based on effectiveness and toleration, may increase to a maximum of 100 mg or decrease to 25 mg ( 2.1 ) • Maximum recommended dosing frequency is once per day ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Dosage Information For most patients, the recommended dose is 50 mg taken, as needed, approximately 1 hour before sexual activity. However, VIAGRA may be taken anywhere from 30 minutes to 4 hours before sexual activity. 2.2 Use with Food VIAGRA may be taken with or without food. 2.3 Dosage Adjustments in Specific Situations VIAGRA was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates and its administration in patients who use nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form is therefore contraindicated [ see Contraindications (4.1) , Drug Interactions (7.1) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . When VIAGRA is co-administered with an alpha-blocker, patients should be stable on alpha-blocker therapy prior to initiating VIAGRA treatment and VIAGRA should be initiated at 25 mg [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Drug Interactions (7.2) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 2.5 Dosage Adjustments in Special Populations Consider a starting dose of 25 mg in patients > 65 years, patients with hepatic impairment (e.g., cirrhosis), and patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/minute) because administration of VIAGRA in these patients resulted in higher plasma levels of sildenafil [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.5 , 8.6 , 8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults: 20 mg three times a day. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Recommended Dosage in Adults Oral Dosage The recommended dosage of sildenafil for oral suspension is 20 mg three times a day [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . 1. 2. 3. Replace cap and shake the bottle vigorously for a minimum of 30 seconds. 4. 5. 6. Remove the cap and press the bottle adaptor into the neck of the bottle. 7. However, sildenafil tablets may be taken anywhere from 30 minutes to 4 hours before sexual activity (2.1) • Based on effectiveness and toleration, may increase to a maximum of 100 mg or decrease to 25 mg (2.1) • Maximum recommended dosing frequency is once per day (2.1) 2.1 Dosage Information For most patients, the recommended dose is 50 mg taken, as needed, approximately 1 hour before sexual activity. 2.3 Dosage Adjustments in Specific Situations Sildenafil tablets was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates and its administration in patients who use nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form is therefore contraindicated [see Contraindications (4.1), Drug Interactions (7.1), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. 2.4 Dosage Adjustments Due to Drug Interactions Ritonavir The recommended dose for ritonavir-treated patients is 25 mg prior to sexual activity and the recommended maximum dose is 25mg within a 48hour period because concomitant administration increased the blood levels of sildenafil by 11-fold [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6), Drug Interactions (7.4), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2.5 Dosage Adjustments in Special Populations Consider a starting dose of 25 mg in patients > 65 years, patients with hepatic impairment (e.g., cirrhosis), and patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/minute) because administration of sildenafil tablets in these patients resulted in higher plasma levels of sildenafil [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.5, 8.6, 8.7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.1 Dosage Information For most patients, the recommended dose is 50 mg taken, as needed, approximately 1 hour before sexual activity.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Administration of sildenafil tablets to patients using nitric oxide donors, such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form. Sildenafil tablets was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates ( 4.1 , 7.1 , 12.2 ) Known hypersensitivity to sildenafil or any component of tablet ( 4.2 ) Administration with guanylate cyclase (GC) stimulators, such as riociguat ( 4.3 ) 4.1 Nitrates Consistent with its known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.1 , 12.2 ) ], sildenafil tablets was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, and its administration to patients who are using nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form either regularly and/or intermittently is therefore contraindicated. After patients have taken sildenafil tablets, it is unknown when nitrates, if necessary, can be safely administered. Although plasma levels of sildenafil at 24 hours post dose are much lower than at peak concentration, it is unknown whether nitrates can be safely co-administered at this time point [ see Dosage and Administration (2.3) , Drug Interactions (7.1) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 4.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Sildenafil tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to sildenafil, as contained in sildenafil tablets and REVATIO, or any component of the tablet. Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported, including rash and urticaria [ see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. 4.3 Concomitant Guanylate Cyclase (GC) Stimulators Do not use sildenafil tablets in patients who are using a GC stimulator, such as riociguat. PDE5 inhibitors, including sildenafil, may potentiate the hypotensive effects of GC stimulators. Sildenafil citrate was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates ( 4.1 , 7.1 , 12.2 ) Known hypersensitivity to sildenafil or any component of tablet ( 4.2 ) Administration with guanylate cyclase (GC) stimulators, such as riociguat ( 4.3 ) 4.1 Nitrates Consistent with its known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.1 , 12.2 ) ], sildenafil citrate was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, and its administration to patients who are using nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form either regularly and/or intermittently is therefore contraindicated. Although plasma levels of sildenafil at 24 hours post dose are much lower than at peak concentration, it is unknown whether nitrates can be safely co-administered at this time point [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ), and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) ]. 4.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Sildenafil citrate is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to sildenafil, as contained in sildenafil tablets and REVATIO, or any component of the tablet. Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported, including rash and urticaria [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 ) ] . PDE5 inhibitors, including sildenafil citrate, may potentiate the hypotensive effects of GC stimulators. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sildenafil tablets are contraindicated in patients with: • Concomitant use of organic nitrates in any form, either regularly or intermittently, because of the greater risk of hypotension [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. • Concomitant use of riociguat, a guanylate cyclase stimulator. PDE-5 inhibitors, including sildenafil, may potentiate the hypotensive effects of riociguat. • Known hypersensitivity to sildenafil or any component of the tablet. Hypersensitivity, including anaphylactic reaction, anaphylactic shock and anaphylactoid reaction, has been reported in association with the use of sildenafil. • Use with organic nitrates or riociguat ( 4 ) • History of hypersensitivity reaction to sildenafil or any component of the tablet ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sildenafil is contraindicated in patients with: Concomitant use of organic nitrates in any form, either regularly or intermittently, because of the greater risk of hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . Concomitant use of riociguat, a guanylate cyclase stimulator. Phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitors, including sildenafil, may potentiate the hypotensive effects of riociguat. Known hypersensitivity to sildenafil or any component of the oral suspension. Use with organic nitrates or riociguat. (4) History of hypersensitivity reaction to sildenafil or any component of the oral suspension. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS •Administration of sildenafil tablets to patients using nitric oxide donors, such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form. Sildenafil tablets were shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates ( 4.1 , 7.1 , 12.2 ) •Known hypersensitivity to sildenafil or any component of tablet (4.2) •Administration with guanylate cyclase (GC) stimulators, such as riociguat (4.3) 4.1 Nitrates Consistent with its known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.1 , 12.2)] , sildenafil tablets were shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, and its administration to patients who are using nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form either regularly and/or intermittently is therefore contraindicated. Although plasma levels of sildenafil at 24 hours post dose are much lower than at peak concentration, it is unknown whether nitrates can be safely co-administered at this time point [see Dosage and Administration (2.3), Drug Interactions (7.1), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported, including rash and urticaria [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. PDE5 inhibitors, including sildenafil tablets, may potentiate the hypotensive effects of GC stimulators. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Administration of VIAGRA to patients using nitric oxide donors, such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form. VIAGRA was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates ( 4.1 , 7.1 , 12.2 ) • Known hypersensitivity to sildenafil or any component of tablet ( 4.2 ) • Administration with guanylate cyclase (GC) stimulators, such as riociguat ( 4.3 ) 4.1 Nitrates Consistent with its known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.1 , 12.2) ], VIAGRA was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, and its administration to patients who are using nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form either regularly and/or intermittently is therefore contraindicated. After patients have taken VIAGRA, it is unknown when nitrates, if necessary, can be safely administered. 4.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions VIAGRA is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to sildenafil, as contained in VIAGRA and REVATIO, or any component of the tablet. Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported, including rash and urticaria [ see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . 4.3 Concomitant Guanylate Cyclase (GC) Stimulators Do not use VIAGRA in patients who are using a GC stimulator, such as riociguat. PDE5 inhibitors, including VIAGRA, may potentiate the hypotensive effects of GC stimulators. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sildenafil is contraindicated in patients with: Concomitant use of organic nitrates in any form, either regularly or intermittently, because of the greater risk of hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Known hypersensitivity to sildenafil or any component of the tablet, injection, or oral suspension. ( 4 ) History of hypersensitivity reaction to sildenafil or any component of the tablet, injection, or oral suspension. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Administration of sildenafil tablets to patients using nitric oxide donors, such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form. Sildenafil tablets were shown to potentiate the hypotensive effect of nitrates (4.1, 7.1, 12.2) • Known hypersensitivity to sildenafil or any component of tablet (4.2) • Administration with guanylate cyclase (GC) stimulators, such as riociguat (4.3) 4.1 Nitrates Consistent with its known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.1, 12.2) ], sildenafil tablets were shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, and its administration to patients who are using nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form either regularly and/or intermittently is therefore contraindicated. Although plasma levels of sildenafil at 24 hours post dose are much lower than at peak concentration, it is unknown whether nitrates can be safely co-administered at this time point [ see Dosage and Administration (2.3), Drug Interactions (7.1), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported, including rash and urticarial [ see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. 4.1 Nitrates Consistent with its known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.1, 12.2) ], sildenafil tablets were shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, and its administration to patients who are using nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form either regularly and/or intermittently is therefore contraindicated.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Sildenafil can potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, alpha blockers, and anti-hypertensives ( 4.1 , 5.5 , 7.1 , 7.2 , 7.3 , 12.2 ) With concomitant use of alpha blockers, initiate sildenafil at 25 mg dose ( 2.3 ) CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole, itraconazole, erythromycin): Increase sildenafil exposure ( 2.4 , 7.4 , 12.3 ) Ritonavir: Do not exceed a maximum single dose of 25 mg in a 48 hour period ( 2.4 , 5.6 ) Erythromycin or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, saquinavir): Consider a starting dose of 25 mg ( 2.4 , 7.4 ) 7.1 Nitrates Administration of sildenafil with nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form is contraindicated. Consistent with its known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, sildenafil was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates [ see Dosage and Administration (2.3) , Contraindications (4.1) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 7.2 Alpha-blockers Use caution when co-administering alpha-blockers with sildenafil because of potential additive blood pressure-lowering effects. When sildenafil is co-administered with an alpha-blocker, patients should be stable on alpha-blocker therapy prior to initiating sildenafil treatment and sildenafil should be initiated at the lowest dose [ see Dosage and Administration (2.3) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 7.3 Amlodipine When sildenafil 100 mg was co-administered with amlodipine (5 mg or 10 mg) to hypertensive patients, the mean additional reduction on supine blood pressure was 8 mmHg systolic and 7 mmHg diastolic [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 7.4 Ritonavir and other CYP3A4 inhibitors Co-administration of ritonavir, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, greatly increased the systemic exposure of sildenafil (11-fold increase in AUC). It is therefore recommended not to exceed a maximum single dose of 25 mg of sildenafil in a 48 hour period [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Co-administration of erythromycin, a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, resulted in a 160% and 182% increases in sildenafil C max and AUC, respectively. Co-administration of saquinavir, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, resulted in 140% and 210% increases in sildenafil C max and AUC, respectively. Stronger CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole or itraconazole could be expected to have greater effects than seen with saquinavir. A starting dose of 25 mg of sildenafil should be considered in patients taking erythromycin or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (such as saquinavir, ketoconazole, itraconazole) [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.5 Alcohol In a drug-drug interaction study sildenafil 50 mg given with alcohol 0.5 g/kg in which mean maximum blood alcohol levels of 0.08% was achieved, sildenafil did not potentiate the hypotensive effect of alcohol in healthy volunteers [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Sildenafil citrate can potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, alpha blockers, and anti-hypertensives ( 4.1 , 5.5 , 7.1 , 7.2 , 7.3 , 12.2 ) With concomitant use of alpha blockers, initiate sildenafil citrate at 25 mg dose ( 2.3 ) CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole, itraconazole, erythromycin): Increase sildenafil citrate exposure ( 2.4 , 7.4 , 12.3 ) Ritonavir: Do not exceed a maximum single dose of 25 mg in a 48 hour period ( 2.4 , 5.6 ) Erythromycin or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, saquinavir): Consider a starting dose of 25 mg ( 2.4 , 7.4 ) 7.1 Nitrates Administration of sildenafil tablets with nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form is contraindicated. Consistent with its known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, sildenafil citrate was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ), Contraindications ( 4.1 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) ] . 7.2 Alpha-blockers Use caution when co-administering alpha-blockers with sildenafil tablets because of potential additive blood pressure-lowering effects. When sildenafil tablets are co-administered with an alpha-blocker, patients should be stable on alpha-blocker therapy prior to initiating sildenafil tablets treatment and sildenafil tablets should be initiated at the lowest dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 ),Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) ] . 7.3 Amlodipine When sildenafil tablets 100 mg were co-administered with amlodipine (5 mg or 10 mg) to hypertensive patients, the mean additional reduction on supine blood pressure was 8 mmHg systolic and 7 mmHg diastolic [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) ]. It is therefore recommended not to exceed a maximum single dose of 25 mg of sildenafil citrate in a 48 hour period [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. A starting dose of 25 mg of sildenafil tablets should be considered in patients taking erythromycin or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (such as saquinavir, ketoconazole, itraconazole) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . 7.5 Alcohol In a drug-drug interaction study sildenafil 50 mg given with alcohol 0.5 g/kg in which mean maximum blood alcohol levels of 0.08% was achieved, sildenafil did not potentiate the hypotensive effect of alcohol in healthy volunteers [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2 ) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Nitrates Concomitant use of sildenafil with nitrates in any form is contraindicated [ see Contraindications (4) ]. Ritonavir and other Potent CYP3A Inhibitors Concomitant use of sildenafil with ritonavir and other potent CYP3A inhibitors is not recommended [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Other drugs that reduce blood pressure Alpha blockers . In drug-drug interaction studies, sildenafil (25 mg, 50 mg, or 100 mg) and the alpha-blocker doxazosin (4 mg or 8 mg) were administered simultaneously to patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) stabilized on doxazosin therapy. In these study populations, mean additional reductions of supine systolic and diastolic blood pressure of 7/7 mmHg, 9/5 mmHg, and 8/4 mmHg, respectively, were observed. Mean additional reductions of standing blood pressure of 6/6 mmHg, 11/4 mmHg, and 4/5 mmHg, respectively, were also observed. There were infrequent reports of patients who experienced symptomatic postural hypotension. These reports included dizziness and light-headedness, but not syncope. Amlodipine . When sildenafil 100 mg oral was co-administered with amlodipine, 5 mg or 10 mg oral, to hypertensive patients, the mean additional reduction on supine blood pressure was 8 mmHg systolic and 7 mmHg diastolic. Monitor blood pressure when co-administering blood pressure lowering drugs with sildenafil [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. • Concomitant alpha-blockers or amlodipine: Note additive blood pressure lowering effects. (7) • Use with ritonavir and other potent CYP3A inhibitors: Not recommended. (7, 12.3) • Concomitant PDE-5 inhibitors: Avoid use with Viagra or other PDE-5 inhibitors. (5.7) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Nitrates Concomitant use of sildenafil with nitrates in any form is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)] . Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Concomitant use of sildenafil with strong CYP3A inhibitors is not recommended [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Moderate-to-Strong CYP3A Inducers Concomitant use of sildenafil with moderate-to-strong CYP3A inducers (such as bosentan) decreases the sildenafil exposure. Dose up-titration of sildenafil may be needed when initiating treatment with moderate-to-strong CYP3A inducers. Reduce the dose of sildenafil to 20 mg three times a day when discontinuing treatment with moderate-to-strong CYP3A inducers [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) and Clinical Studies (14)] . Use with strong CYP3A inhibitors: Not recommended. (7, 12.3) Concomitant PDE-5 inhibitors: Avoid use with Viagra® or other PDE-5 inhibitors. (5.6) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS •Sildenafil tablets can potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, alpha blockers, and anti-hypertensives ( 4.1 , 5.5 , 7.1 , 7.2 , 7.3 , 12.2 ) •With concomitant use of alpha blockers, initiate sildenafil tablets at 25 mg dose (2.3) •CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole, itraconazole, erythromycin): Increase sildenafil tablets exposure (2.4 , 7.4, 12.3 ) •Ritonavir: Do not exceed a maximum single dose of 25 mg in a 48 hour period ( 2.4 , 5.6) •Erythromycin or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, saquinavir): Consider a starting dose of 25 mg (2.4, 7.4) 7.1 Nitrates Administration of sildenafil tablets with nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form is contraindicated. Consistent with its known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, sildenafil tablets were shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates [see Dosage and Administration (2.3), Contraindications (4.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. When sildenafil tablets are co-administered with an alpha-blocker, patients should be stable on alpha-blocker therapy prior to initiating sildenafil tablets treatment and sildenafil tablets should be initiated at the lowest dose [see Dosage and Administration (2.3), Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. 7.3 Amlodipine When sildenafil tablets 100 mg were co-administered with amlodipine (5 mg or 10 mg) to hypertensive patients, the mean additional reduction on supine blood pressure was 8 mmHg systolic and 7 mmHg diastolic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. It is therefore recommended not to exceed a maximum single dose of 25 mg of sildenafil tablets in a 48 hour period [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.6), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)]. Co-administration of erythromycin, a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, resulted in a 160% and 182% increases in sildenafil Cmax and AUC, respectively. Co-administration of saquinavir, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, resulted in 140% and 210% increases in sildenafil Cmax and AUC, respectively. A starting dose of 25 mg of sildenafil tablets should be considered in patients taking erythromycin or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (such as saquinavir, ketoconazole, itracanozole) [see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)]. 7.5 Alcohol In a drug-drug interaction study sildenafil 50 mg given with alcohol 0.5 g/kg in which mean maximum blood alcohol levels of 0.08% was achieved, sildenafil did not potentiate the hypotensive effect of alcohol in healthy volunteers [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.2) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • VIAGRA can potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, alpha blockers, and anti-hypertensives ( 4.1 , 5.5 , 7.1 , 7.2 , 7.3 , 12.2 ) • With concomitant use of alpha blockers, initiate VIAGRA at 25 mg dose ( 2.3 ) • CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole, itraconazole, erythromycin): Increase VIAGRA exposure ( 2.4 , 7.4 , 12.3 ) • Ritonavir: Do not exceed a maximum single dose of 25 mg in a 48 hour period ( 2.4 , 5.6 ) • Erythromycin or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, saquinavir): Consider a starting dose of 25 mg ( 2.4 , 7.4 ) 7.1 Nitrates Administration of VIAGRA with nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form is contraindicated. Consistent with its known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, VIAGRA was shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates [ see Dosage and Administration (2.3) , Contraindications (4.1) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . 7.2 Alpha-blockers Use caution when co-administering alpha-blockers with VIAGRA because of potential additive blood pressure-lowering effects. When VIAGRA is co-administered with an alpha-blocker, patients should be stable on alpha-blocker therapy prior to initiating VIAGRA treatment and VIAGRA should be initiated at the lowest dose [ see Dosage and Administration (2.3) , Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ] . 7.3 Amlodipine When VIAGRA 100 mg was co-administered with amlodipine (5 mg or 10 mg) to hypertensive patients, the mean additional reduction on supine blood pressure was 8 mmHg systolic and 7 mmHg diastolic [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. It is therefore recommended not to exceed a maximum single dose of 25 mg of VIAGRA in a 48 hour period [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.6) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. A starting dose of 25 mg of VIAGRA should be considered in patients taking erythromycin or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (such as saquinavir, ketoconazole, itraconazole) [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Nitrates Concomitant use of sildenafil with nitrates in any form is contraindicated [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Concomitant use of sildenafil with strong CYP3A inhibitors is not recommended [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Reduce the dose of sildenafil to 20 mg three times a day when discontinuing treatment with moderate-to-strong CYP3A inducers [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . ( 7 , 12.3 ) Concomitant PDE-5 inhibitors: Avoid use with Viagra ® or other PDE-5 inhibitors. ( 5.6 ) Pediatric use information is approved for Viatris Specialty LLC's, REVATIO (sildenafil) for oral suspension. However, due to Viatris Specialty LLC's marketing exclusivity rights, this drug product is not labeled with that information. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Sildenafil tablets can potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates, alpha blockers, and anti-hypertensives (4.1, 5.5, 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 12.2) • With concomitant use of alpha blockers, initiate sildenafil tablets at 25 mg dose (2.3) • CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole, itraconazole, erythromycin): Increase sildenafil tablets exposure (2.4, 7.4, 12.3) Ritonavir: Do not exceed a maximum single dose of 25 mg in a 48hour period (2.4, 5.6) Erythromycin or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, saquinavir): Consider a starting dose of 25 mg (2.4, 7.4) 7.1 Nitrates Administration of sildenafil tablets with nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form is contraindicated. Consistent with its known effects on the nitric oxide/cGMP pathway, sildenafil tablets were shown to potentiate the hypotensive effects of nitrates [see Dosage and Administration (2.3), Contraindications (4.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. When sildenafil tablets are co-administered with an alpha-blocker, patients should be stable on alpha-blocker therapy prior to initiating sildenafil tablets treatment and sildenafil tablets should be initiated at the lowest dose [see Dosage and Administration (2.3), Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 7.3 Amlodipine When sildenafil tablets 100 mg was co-administered with amlodipine (5 mg or 10 mg) to hypertensive patients, the mean additional reduction on supine blood pressure was 8 mmHg systolic and 7 mmHg diastolic [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. It is therefore recommended not to exceed a maximum single dose of 25 mg of sildenafil tablets in a 48-hour period [see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.6), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. A starting dose of 25 mg of sildenafil tablets should be considered in patients taking erythromycin or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (such as saquinavir, ketoconazole, itraconazole) [see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.5 Alcohol In a drug-drug interaction study sildenafil 50 mg given with alcohol 0.5 g/kg in which mean maximum blood alcohol levels of 0.08% was achieved, sildenafil did not potentiate the hypotensive effect of alcohol in healthy volunteers [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 7.1 Nitrates Administration of sildenafil tablets with nitric oxide donors such as organic nitrates or organic nitrites in any form is contraindicated.

=== BACITRACIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose First Aid Antibiotic Purpose First aid antibiotic First aid antibiotic First aid antibiotic Active ingredients (in each gram) Purposes Bacitracin 500 units First aid antibiotic Neomycin 3.5 mg First aid antibiotic Polymyxin B 10,000 units First aid antibiotic Pramoxine HCl 10 mg Topical pain reliever Uses first aid to help prevent infection and for temporary relief of pain or discomfort in minor: cuts scrapes burns
Indications: Use(s) First aid to help prevent infection in minor cuts, scrapes, and burns Uses First aid to help prevent infection in minor cuts, scrapes and burns Uses first aid to help prevent infection in: • minor cuts • scrapes • burns Uses first aid to help prevent infection in minor:● cuts ● scrapes ● burns Uses first aid to help prevent infection and for temporary relief of pain or discomfort in minor: cuts scrapes burns Directions adults and children 2 years of age and older: clean the affected area apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage children under 2 years of age: ask a doctor Uses first aid to help prevent infection in minor: • cuts • scrapes • burns
Dosage: Directions Clean the affected area. Apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily. May be covered with a sterile bandage. Directions Clean the affected area Apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily May be covered with a sterile bandage. Directions • clean the affected area • apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily • may be covered with a sterile bandage Directions Clean and disinfect the affected area Apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily May be covered with a sterile bandage. Directions ● clean the affected area and dry thoroughly. ● apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily ● may be covered with a sterile bandage. Directions unscrew cap and pull tab to remove foil seal adults and children 2 years of age and older: clean the affected area apply a small amount of this product (an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger) on the area 1 to 3 times daily may be covered with a sterile bandage children under 2 years of age: ask a doctor DISTRIBUTED BY: WINCO FOODS, LLC, BOISE, ID 83704
Warnings: Warnings For External Use Only Do not use • In the eyes or apply over large areas of the body • If you are allergic to any of the ingredients • Longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if You have deep or puncture wounds, animal bites, or serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • The condition persists or gets worse • A rash or other allergic reaction develops Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings For external use only. Warnings For External Use Only Do not use • In the eyes or apply over large areas of the body • If you are allergic to any of the ingredients • Longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if You have deep or puncture wounds, animal bites, or serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • The condition persists or gets worse • A rash or other allergic reation develops Keep out of reach of children. Warnings For external use only Do not use • in the eyes • over large areas of the body • if you are allergic to any of the ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • you need to use longer than 1 week • condition persists or gets worse • rash or other allergic reaction develops Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. (1-800-222-1222) Warnings For external use only Do not use if you are allergic to any of the ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns When using this product do not use in the eyes do not apply over large areas of the body Stop use and ask a doctor if you need to use for more than 1 week condition persists or gets worse symptoms persist for more than 1 week or clear up and occur again within a few days rash or other allergic reaction develops Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Warnings For external use only Do not use • if you are allergic to any of the ingredients • in the eyes • over large areas of the body Ask a doctor before use if you have • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • you need to use longer than 1 week • condition persists or gets worse • rash or other allergic reaction develops Keep out of reach of children.

=== CHLORHEXIDINE GLUCONATE 4% ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antiseptic
Indications: Uses healthcare personnel handwash : helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease skin wound and general skin cleansing Uses surgical hand scrub: significantly reduces the number of microorganisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care healthcare personnel handwash : helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease skin wound and general skin cleansing Uses healthcare personnel handwash : helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease skin wound and general skin cleaning Uses healthcare personnel handwash: helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease skin wound and general skin cleansing
Dosage: Directions use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age. These products may cause irritation or chemical burns. Healthcare personnel handwash: wet hands with water dispense about 5 mL of product into cupped hands and wash in vigorous manner for about 15 seconds rinse and dry throughly Skin wound and general skin cleansing: throughly rinse the area to be cleaned with water apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently rinse again throughly Surgical hand scrub: wet hands and forearms under running water scrub for 3 minutes with about 5 mL of product and a wet brush, paying close attention to the nails, cuticles, and interdigital spaces a separate nail cleaner may be used rinse thoroughly wash for an additional 3 minutes with 5 mL of product and rinse under running water dry thoroughly Healthcare personnel handwash: wet hands with water dispense about 5 mL of product into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for about 15 seconds rinse and dry thoroughly Skin wound and general skin cleansing: thoroughly rinse the area to be cleaned with water apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently rinse again thoroughly Surgical hand scrub: wet hands and forearms under running water scrub for 3 minutes with about 5 mL of product and a wet brush, paying close attention to the nails, cuticles, and interdigital spaces a separate nail cleaner may be used rinse thoroughly wash for an additional 3 minutes with 5 mL of product and rinse under running water dry thoroughly Healthcare personnel handwash: wet hands with water dispense about 5ml of product into cupped hands and wahs in vigorous manner for about 15 seconds rinse and dry thoroughly Skin wound and normal skin cleansing : thoroughly rinse the area to be cleaned with water apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently rinse again thoroughly Healthcare personnel handwash: wet hands with water dispense about 5ml of product into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for about 15 seconds rinse and dry thoroughly Skin wound and normal skin cleansing: thoroughly rinse the area to be cleaned with water apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently rinse again thoroughly Healthcare personnel handwash: wet hands with water dispense about 5ml of product into cupped hands and wash in vigorous manner for about 15 seconds rinse and dry thoroughly Skin wound and normal skin cleansing: thoroughly rinse the area to be cleaned with water apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently rinse again thoroughly Healthcare personnel handwash: wet hands with water dispense about 5 mL of product into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for about 15 seconds rinse and dry thoroughly Skin wound and general skin cleansing: thoroughly rinse the area to be cleaned with water apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently rinse again thoroughly Healthcare personnel handwash: wet hands with water dispense about 5 mL of product into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for about 15 seconds rinse and dry thoroughly Skin wound and normal skin cleansing: thoroughly rinse the area to be cleaned with water apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently rinse again thoroughly Healthcare personnel handwash: wet hands with water dispense about 5 mL of product into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for about 15 seconds rinse and dry thoroughly repeat procedure for an additional 2 minutes and dry with a sterile towel Skin wound and normal skin cleansing: thoroughly rinse the area to be cleaned with water apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently rinse again thoroughly Healthcare personnel handwash: wet hands with water dispense about 5 mL of product into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for about 15 seconds rinse and dry thoroughly Skin wound and general skin cleansing: thoroughly rinses the area to be cleaned with water apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently rinse again thoroughly Surgical hand scrub: wet hands and forearms under running water scrub for 3 minutes with about 5 mL of product and a wet brush, paying close attention to the nails, cuticles, and interdigital spaces a separate nail cleaner may be used rinse thoroughly wash for an additional 3 minutes with 5 mL of product and rinse under running water dry thoroughly Healthcare personnel handwash: wet hands with water dispense about 5 mL of product into cupped hands and wash in vigorous manner for about 15 seconds rinse and dry thoroughly Skin wound and normal skin cleansing: thoroughly rinse the area to be cleaned with water apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently rinse again thoroughly
Warnings: Warnings For external use only Allergy alert: This product may casue a severe allergic reaction. Symptoms may include: wheezing/difficulty breathing shock facial swelling hives rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away Do not use if you or the patient is allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product in contact with meninges in the gential area When using this product keep out of eyes, ears, and mouth. May cause serious and permanent eye injury if permitted to enter and remain in the eye or may cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated eardrums. is solution should contact these areas, rinse out promptly and throughly with water wounds which involve more than the superfical layers of the skin should not be routinely treated repeated general skin cleansing of large body areas should not be done expect when advised by health care provider Stop use and ask a doctor if Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization, or allergic reaction occurs. There may be signs of a serious condition Keep out of reach of children. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Warnings For external use only This product may cause a severe allergic reaction. Symptoms may include: wheezing/difficulty breathing shock facial swelling hives rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Do not use if you or the patient is allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product in contact with meninges in the genital area Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation, sensitization, or allergic reaction occurs. These may be signs of a serious condition. When using this product keep out of eyes, ears, and mouth. May cause serious and permanent eye injury if permitted to enter and remain in the eye or may cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated eardurms. if solution should contact these areas, rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin should not be routinely treated repeated general skin cleansing of large body areas should not be done except when the underlying condition makes it necessary to reduce the bacterial population of the skin Warnings For external use only Allergy alert: This product may cause a severe allergic reaction. Symptoms may include: wheezing/difficulty breathing shock facial swelling hives rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away Do not use if you are allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in contact with meninges in genital area Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control center right away Stop use and ask doctor if irritation, sensitization, or allergic reaction occurs. if solution should contact these areas, rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin should not be routinely treated repeated general skin cleansing of large body areas should not be done except when advised by a health care provider Symptoms may include: wheezing/difficulty breathing shock facial swelling hives rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away Do not use if you or the patient is allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product in contact with meninges in the genital area Keep out of reach of children. if solution should contact these areas, rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin should not be routinely treated repeated general skin cleansing of large body areas should not be done except when advised by a health care procider Warnings For external use only Allergy alert: This product may cuase a severe allergic reaction. Do not use if you or the patient is allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product in contact with meninges in the genital area Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Stop use and ask doctor if irritation, sensitization, or allergic reaction occurs. May cause serious and permanent eye injury if permitted to enter and remain in the eye or may cuase deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated eardrums. if solution should contact these areas, rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin should not be routinely treated repeated general skin cleansing of large body areas should not be done except when advised by a healthcare provider Warnings For external use only Allergy alert: This product may cause severe allergic reaction. Do not use if you or the patient is allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product in contact with meninges in the genital area When using this product keep out of eyes, ears, and mouth. if solution should contact these areas, rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin should not be routinely treated repeated general skin cleansing of large body areas should not be done except when advised by a health care provider Stop use and ask doctor if irritation, sensitization, or allergic reaction occurs. Keep out of reach of children If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Warning This product can expose you to a coconut oil diethanolamine condensate (cocamide diethanolamine), which is known to the State of California to cause cancer. For more information go to www.P65Warnings.ca.gov. Sypmtoms may include: wheezing/difficulty breathing shock facial swelling hives rash If an allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Do not use if you of the patient is allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product in contact with meninges in the genital area When using this product keep out of eyes, ears, and mouth. if solution should contact these areas, rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin should not be routinely treated repeated general skin cleansing of large body areas should not be done except when advised by a health care provider Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation, sensitization, or allergic reaction occurs. Symptoms may include: wheezing/difficulty breathing shock facial swelling hives rash If an allergc reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. if solution should contact these areas, rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin should not be routinely treated repeated general skin cleansing of large body areas should not be done except when adviseed by a health care provider Do not use if you or the patient is allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product in contact with meninges in the genital area Keep out of reach of children.

=== CYPROHEPTADINE HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE: Perennial and seasonal allergic rhinitis, Vasomotor rhinitis, Allergic conjunctivitis due to inhalant allergens and foods. Mild, uncomplicated allergic skin manifestations of urticaria and angioedema. Amelioration of allergic reactions to blood or plasma. Cold urticaria. Dermatographism. As therapy for anaphylactic reactions adjunctive to epinephrine and other standard measures after the acute manifestations have been controlled. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Perennial and seasonal allergic rhinitis Vasomotor rhinitisAllergic conjunctivitis due to inhalant allergens and foodsMild, uncomplicated allergic skin manifestations of urticaria and angioedema.Amelioration of allergic reactions to blood or plasmaCold urticariaDermatographism As therapy for anaphylactic reactions adjunctive to epinephrine and other standard measures after the acute manifestations have been controlled. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Perennial and seasonal allergic rhinitis Vasomotor rhinitis Allergic conjunctivitis due to inhalant allergens and foods Mild, uncomplicated allergic skin manifestations of urticaria and angioedema Amelioration of allergic reactions to blood or plasma Cold urticaria Dermatographism As therapy for anaphylactic reactions adjunctive to epinephrine and other standard measures after the cute manifestations have been controlled. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Perennial and seasonal allergic rhinitis Vasomotor rhinitis Allergic conjunctivitis due to inhalant allergens and foods Mild, uncomplicated allergic skin manifestations of urticaria and angioedema Amelioration of allergic reactions to blood or plasma Cold urticaria Dermatographism As therapy for anaphylactic reactions adjunctive to epinephrine and other standard measures after the acute manifestations have been controlled. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Perennial and seasonal allergic rhinitis Vasomotor rhinitis Allergic conjunctivitis due to inhalant allergens and foods Mild, uncomplicated allergic skin manifestations of urticaria and angioedema. Amelioration of allergic reactions to blood or plasma Cold urticaria Dermatographism As therapy for anaphylactic reactions adjunctive to epinephrine and other standard measures after the acute manifestations have been controlled. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Perennial and seasonal allergic rhinitis Vasomotor rhinitis Allergic conjunctivitis due to inhalant allergens and foods. Cold urticaria Dermatographism As therapy for anaphylactic reactions adjunctive to epinephrine and other standard measures after the acute manifestations have been controlled.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: DOSAGE SHOULD BE INDIVIDUALIZED ACCORDING TO THE NEEDS AND THE RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT. Children: The total daily dosage for children may be calculated on the basis of body weight or body area using approximately 0.25 mg/kg/day (0.11 mg/lb/day) or 8 mg per square meter of body surface (8 mg/m 2 ). In small children for whom the calculation of the dosage based upon body size is important, it may be necessary to use cyproheptadine syrup to permit accurate dosage. Age 2 to 6 years: The usual dose is 2 mg (1/2 tablet) two or three times a day, adjusted as necessary to the size and response of the patient. The dose is not to exceed 12 mg a day. Age 7 to 14 years: The usual dose is 4 mg (1 tablet) two or three times a day, adjusted as necessary to the size and response of the patient. The dose is not to exceed 16 mg a day. Adults: The total daily dose for adults should not exceed 0.5 mg/kg/day (0.23 mg/lb/day). The therapeutic range is 4 to 20 mg a day, with the majority of patients requiring 12 to 16 mg, a day. An occasional patient may require as much as 32 mg a day for adequate relief. It is suggested that dosage be initiated with 4 mg (1 tablet) three times a day and adjusted according to the size and response of the patient. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DOSAGE SHOULD BE INDIVIDUALIZED ACCORDING TO THE NEEDS AND THE RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT. Each tablet contains 4 mg of cyproheptadine hydrochloride. Pediatric Patients Age 2 to 6 years The total daily dosage for pediatric patients may be calculated on the basis of body weight or body area using approximately 0.25 mg/kg/day or 8 mg per square meter of body surface (8 mg/m 2 ). The usual dose is 2 mg (½ tablet) two or three times a day, adjusted as necessary to the size and response of the patient. Age 7 to 14 years The usual dose is 4 mg (1 tablet) two or three times a day adjusted as necessary to the size and response of the patient. Adults The total daily dose for adults should not exceed 0.5 mg/kg/day. The therapeutic range is 4 to 20 mg a day, with the majority of patients requiring 12 to 16 mg a day. Pediatric Patients Age 2 to 6 years The total daily dosage for pediatric patients may be calculated on the basis of body weight or body area using approximately 0.25 mg /kg /day or 8 mg per square meter of body surface (8 mg/m 2 ). Adults The total daily dose for adults should not exceed 0.5 mg /kg /day. Although intended primarily for administration to children, the syrup is also used for administration to adults who cannot swallow tablets. Age 2 to 6 years: The usual dose is 2 mg (one teaspoonful) two or three times a day, adjusted as necessary to the size and response of the patient. Age 7 to 14 years: The usual dose is 4 mg (two teaspoonsful) two or three times a day, adjusted as necessary to the size and response of the patient. It is suggested that dosage be initiated with 4 mg (two teaspoonsful) three times a day and adjusted according to the size and response of the patient. The therapeutic range is 4 mg to 20 mg a day, with the majority of patients requiring 12 mg to 16 mg a day.
Warnings: WARNINGS Children - Overdosage of antihistamines, particularly in infants and children, may produce hallucinations, central nervous system depression, convulsions, and death. Antihistamines may diminish mental alertness conversely particularly in the young child they may occasionally produce excitation. CNS Depressants - Antihistamines may have additive effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants, e.g., hypnotics, sedatives, tranquilizers, antianxiety agents. Activities Requiring Mental Alertness - Patients should be warned about engaging in activities requiring mental alertness and motor coordination, such as driving a car or operating machinery. Antihistamines are more likely to cause dizziness, sedation and hypotension in elderly patients. WARNINGS Pediatric Patients Overdosage of antihistamines, particularly in infants and young children, may produce hallucinations, central nervous system depression, convulsions, respiratory and cardiac arrest, and death. Antihistamines may diminish mental alertness; conversely, particularly, in the young child, they may occasionally produce excitation. CNS Depressants Antihistamines may have additive effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants, e.g., hypnotics, sedatives, tranquilizers, antianxiety agents. Activities Requiring Mental Alertness Patients should be warned about engaging in activities requiring mental alertness and motor coordination, such as driving a car or operating machinery. Antihistamines are more likely to cause dizziness, sedation, and hypotension in elderly patients (see PRECAUTIONS , Geriatric Use ). Antihistamines are more likely to cause dizziness, sedation, and hypotension in elderly patients (see PRECAUTIONS, Geriatric Use ). WARNINGS Children: Overdosage of antihistamines, particularly in infants and children, may produce hallucinations, central nervous system depression, convulsions and death. Antihistamines may diminish mental alertness; conversely, particularly in the young child, they may occasionally produce excitation. CNS Depressants: Antihistamines may have additive effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants, e.g., hypnotics, sedatives, tranquilizers, antianxiety agents. Activities Requiring Mental Alertness: Patients should be warned about engaging in activities requiring mental alertness and motor coordination, such as driving a car or operating machinery. Pediatric Patients Overdosage of antihistamines, particularly in infants and young children, may produce hallucinations, central nervous system depression, convulsions, respiratory and cardiac arrest, and death.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Newborn or Premature Infants: This drug should not be used in newborn or premature infants. Nursing Mothers: Because of the higher risk of antihistamines for infants generally, and for newborns and prematures in particular, antihistamine therapy is contraindicated in nursing mothers. Other Conditions: Hypersensitivity to cyproheptadine and other drugs of similar chemical structure. Monoamine oxidase inhibitor therapy (see DRUG INTERACTIONS ). Angle-closure glaucoma. Stenosing peptic ulcer. Symptomatic prostatic hypertrophy. Bladder neck obstruction. Pyloroduodenal obstruction, elderly, debilitated patients. CONTRAINDICATIONS Newborn or Premature Infants This drug should not be used in newborn or premature infants. Nursing Mothers Because of the higher risk of antihistamines for infants generally and for newborns and prematures in particular, antihistamine therapy is contraindicated in nursing mothers. Other Conditions Hypersensitivity to cyproheptadine and other drugs of similar chemical structure. Monoamine oxidase inhibitor therapy (See DRUG INTERACTIONS .)Angle-closure glaucomaStenosing peptic ulcerSymptomatic prostatic hypertrophyBladder neck obstructionPyloroduodenal obstructionElderly, debilitated patients Monoamine oxidase inhibitor therapy (See DRUG INT ERACT IONS. ) Angle-closure glaucoma Stenosing peptic ulcer Symptomatic prostatic hypertrophy Bladder neck obstruction Pyloroduodenal obstruction Elderly, debilitated patients Nursing Mothers: Because of the higher risk of antihistamines for infants generally and for newborns and prematures in particular, antihistamine therapy is contraindicated in nursing mothers. Other Conditions: Hypersensitivity to cyproheptadine and other drugs of similar chemical structure Monoamine oxidase inhibitor therapy (see Drug Interactions ) Angle-closure glaucoma Stenosing peptic ulcer Symptomatic prostatic hypertrophy Bladder neck obstruction Pyloroduodenal obstruction Elderly, debilitated patients Lactation Because of the higher risk of antihistamines for infants generally and for newborns and prematures in particular, antihistamine therapy is contraindicated in nursing mothers. Angle-closure glaucoma Stenosing peptic ulcer Symptomatic prostatic hypertrophy Bladder neck obstruction Pyloroduodenal obstruction Elderly, debilitated patients Newborn or Premature Infants This drug should not be used in newborn or premature infants.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions MAO inhibitors prolong and intensify the anticholinergic effects of antihistamines. Antihistamines may have additive effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants, e.g., hypnotics, sedatives, tranquilizers, antianxiety agents. Drug Interactions: MAO inhibitors prolong and intensify the anticholinergic effects of antihistamines.

=== DEFERASIROX ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Deferasirox tablets are an iron chelator indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions in patients 2 years of age and older. ( 1.1 ) Deferasirox tablets are indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload in patients 10 years of age and older with non-transfusion-dependent thalassemia (NTDT) syndromes, and with a liver iron (Fe) concentration (LIC) of at least 5 mg Fe per gram of dry weight (Fe/g dw) and a serum ferritin greater than 300 mcg/L.( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use The safety and efficacy of deferasirox tablets when administered with other iron chelation therapy have not been established. ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Treatment of Chronic Iron Overload Due to Blood Transfusions (Transfusional Iron Overload) Deferasirox tablets are indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions (transfusional hemosiderosis) in patients 2 years of age and older. 1.2 Treatment of Chronic Iron Overload in Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes Deferasirox tablets are indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload in patients 10 years of age and older with non-transfusion-dependent thalassemia (NTDT) syndromes and with a liver iron concentration (LIC) of at least 5 milligrams of iron per gram of liver dry weight (mg Fe/g dw) and a serum ferritin greater than 300 mcg/L. 1.3 Limitations of Use The safety and efficacy of deferasirox tablets when administered with other iron chelation therapy have not been established. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Deferasirox tablets is an iron chelator indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions in patients 2 years of age and older. ( 1.1 ) Deferasirox tablets is indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload in patients 10 years of age and older with non-transfusion-dependent thalassemia (NTDT) syndromes, and with a liver iron (Fe) concentration (LIC) of at least 5 mg Fe per gram of dry weight (Fe/g dw) and a serum ferritin greater than 300 mcg/L. ( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use: The safety and efficacy of deferasirox when administered with other iron chelation therapy have not been established. 1.2 Treatment of Chronic Iron Overload in Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes Deferasirox tablets is indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload in patients 10 years of age and older with non-transfusion-dependent thalassemia (NTDT) syndromes and with a liver iron concentration (LIC) of at least 5 milligrams of iron per gram of liver dry weight (mg Fe/g dw) and a serum ferritin greater than 300 mcg/L. 1.3 Limitations of Use The safety and efficacy of deferasirox when administered with other iron chelation therapy have not been established. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Deferasirox oral granules are an iron chelator indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions in patients 2 years of age and older. ( 1.1 ) Deferasirox oral granules are indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload in patients 10 years of age and older with non-transfusion-dependent thalassemia (NTDT) syndromes, and with a liver iron (Fe) concentration (LIC) of at least 5 mg Fe per gram of dry weight (Fe/g dw) and a serum ferritin greater than 300 mcg/L. ( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use: The safety and efficacy of deferasirox oral granules when administered with other iron chelation therapy have not been established. ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Treatment of Chronic Iron Overload Due to Blood Transfusions (Transfusional Iron Overload) Deferasirox oral granules are indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions (transfusional hemosiderosis) in patients 2 years of age and older 1.2 Treatment of Chronic Iron Overload in Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes Deferasirox oral granules are indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload in patients 10 years of age and older with non-transfusion dependent thalassemia (NTDT) syndromes and with a liver iron concentration (LIC) of at least 5 milligrams of iron per gram of liver dry weight (mg Fe/g dw) and a serum ferritin greater than 300 mcg/L. 1.3 Limitations of Use The safety and efficacy of deferasirox oral granules when administered with other iron chelation therapy have not been established. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Deferasirox tablets for oral suspension are an iron chelator indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions in patients 2 years of age and older. (1.1) Deferasirox tablets for oral suspension is indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload in patients 10 years of age and older with non-transfusion-dependent thalassemia (NTDT) syndromes, and with a liver iron (Fe) concentration (LIC) of at least 5 mg Fe per gram of dry weight and a serum ferritin greater than 300 mcg/L. (1.2) Limitations of Use: The safety and efficacy of deferasirox tablets for oral suspension when administered with other iron chelation therapy have not been established. (1.3) 1.1 Treatment of Chronic Iron Overload Due to Blood Transfusions (Transfusional Iron Overload) Deferasirox tablets for oral suspension are indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions (transfusional hemosiderosis) in patients 2 years of age and older. 1.2 Treatment of Chronic Iron Overload in Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes Deferasirox tablets for oral suspension are indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload in patients 10 years of age and older with non-transfusion-dependent thalassemia (NTDT) syndromes and with a liver iron concentration (LIC) of at least 5 milligrams of iron per gram of liver dry weight (mg Fe/g dw) and a serum ferritin greater than 300 mcg/L. 1.3 Limitations of Use The safety and efficacy of deferasirox tablets for oral suspension when administered with other iron chelation therapy have not been established. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Deferasirox is an iron chelator indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions in patients 2 years of age and older. ( 1.1 ) Deferasirox is indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload in patients 10 years of age and older with non-transfusion-dependent thalassemia (NTDT) syndromes, and with a liver iron (Fe) concentration (LIC) of at least 5 mg Fe per gram of dry weight (Fe/g dw) and a serum ferritin greater than 300 mcg/L. Limitations of Use: The safety and efficacy of deferasirox when administered with other iron chelation therapy have not been established. ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Treatment of Chronic Iron Overload Due to Blood Transfusions (Transfusional Iron Overload) Deferasirox oral granules are indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions (transfusional hemosiderosis) in patients 2 years of age and older. 1.2 Treatment of Chronic Iron Overload in Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes Deferasirox oral granules is indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload in patients 10 years of age and older with non-transfusion-dependent thalassemia (NTDT) syndromes and with a liver iron concentration (LIC) of at least 5 milligrams of iron per gram of liver dry weight (mg Fe/g dw) and a serum ferritin greater than 300 mcg/L. This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on a reduction of liver iron concentrations (to less than 5 mg Fe/g dw) and serum ferritin levels [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Deferasirox granule is an iron chelator indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions in patients 2 years of age and older. ( 1.1 ) Deferasirox granule is indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload in patients 10 years of age and older with non-transfusion-dependent thalassemia (NTDT) syndromes, and with a liver iron (Fe) concentration (LIC) of at least 5 mg Fe per gram of dry weight (Fe/g dw) and a serum ferritin greater than 300 mcg/L. ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Treatment of Chronic Iron Overload Due to Blood Transfusions (Transfusional Iron Overload) Deferasirox granules are indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions (transfusional hemosiderosis) in patients 2 years of age and older. 1.2 Treatment of Chronic Iron Overload in Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes Deferasirox granules are indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload in patients 10 years of age and older with non-transfusion-dependent thalassemia (NTDT) syndromes and with a liver iron concentration (LIC) of at least 5 milligrams of iron per gram of liver dry weight (mg Fe/g dw) and a serum ferritin greater than 300 mcg/L. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Exjade is an iron chelator indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions in patients 2 years of age and older. ( 1.1 ) Exjade is indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload in patients 10 years of age and older with non-transfusion-dependent thalassemia (NTDT) syndromes, and with a liver iron (Fe) concentration (LIC) of at least 5 mg Fe per gram of dry weight and a serum ferritin greater than 300 mcg/L. ( 1.2 ) Limitations of Use: The safety and efficacy of Exjade when administered with other iron chelation therapy have not been established. ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Treatment of Chronic Iron Overload Due to Blood Transfusions (Transfusional Iron Overload) Exjade is indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions (transfusional hemosiderosis) in patients 2 years of age and older. 1.2 Treatment of Chronic Iron Overload in Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes Exjade is indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload in patients 10 years of age and older with non-transfusion-dependent thalassemia (NTDT) syndromes and with a liver iron concentration (LIC) of at least 5 milligrams of iron per gram of liver dry weight (mg Fe/g dw) and a serum ferritin greater than 300 mcg/L. 1.3 Limitations of Use The safety and efficacy of Exjade when administered with other iron chelation therapy have not been established. ( 1.1 ) Deferasirox tablets are indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload in patients 10 years of age and older with non-transfusion-dependent thalassemia (NTDT) syndromes, and with a liver iron (Fe) concentration (LIC) of at least 5 mg Fe per gram of dry weight (Fe/g dw) and a serum ferritin greater than 300 mcg/L. (1. 2) Limitations of Use The safety and efficacy of deferasirox tablets when administered with other iron chelation therapy have not been established. 1.2 Treatment of Chronic Iron Overload in Non-Transfusion- Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes Deferasirox tablets are indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload in patients 10 years of age and older with non-transfusiondependent thalassemia (NTDT) syndromes and with a liver iron concentration (LIC) of at least 5 milligrams of iron per gram of liver dry weight (mg Fe/g dw) and a serum ferritin greater than 300 mcg/L. ( 1.1 ) Deferasirox is indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload in patients 10 years of age and older with non-transfusion-dependent thalassemia (NTDT) syndromes, and with a liver iron (Fe) concentration (LIC) of at least 5 mg Fe per gram of dry weight and a serum ferritin greater than 300 mcg/L. (1.2) Limitations of Use: The safety and efficacy of deferasirox tablets when administered with other iron chelation therapy have not been established.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Transfusional Iron Overload: Initial dose for patients with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is 14 mg per kg (calculated to nearest whole tablet ) once daily. ( 2.1 ) NTDT Syndromes: Initial dose for patients with eGFR greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is 7 mg per kg (calculated to nearest whole tablet) once daily. ( 2.2 ) See full prescribing information for information regarding monitoring, administration, and dose-reductions for organ impairment. ( 2.1 , 2,2 , 2.3 , 2.4 ) 2.1Transfusional Iron Overload Deferasirox tablets therapy should only be considered when a patient has evidence of chronic transfusional iron overload. The evidence should include the transfusion of at least 100 mL/kg of packed red blood cells (e.g., at least 20 units of packed red blood cells for a 40 kg person or more in individuals weighing more than 40 kg), and a serum ferritin consistently greater than 1,000 mcg/L. Prior to starting therapy, or increasing dose, evaluate: Serum ferritin level Obtain renal function Obtain serum creatinine in duplicate (due to variations in measurements). Calculate the estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). Use a prediction equation appropriate for adult patients (e.g., CKD-EPI, MDRD method) and in pediatric patients (e.g., Schwartz equations). Obtain urinalyses and serum electrolytes to evaluate renal tubular function [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Serum transaminases and bilirubin [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Baseline auditory and ophthalmic examinations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Initiating Therapy: The recommended initial dose of deferasirox tablets for patients 2 years of age and older with eGFR greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is 14 mg per kg body weight orally, once daily. Calculate doses (mg per kg per day) to the nearest whole tablet. Changes in weight of pediatric patients over time must be taken into account when calculating the dose. During Therapy: Monitor serum ferritin monthly and adjust the dose of deferasirox tablets, if necessary, every 3 to 6 months based on serum ferritin trends. Use the minimum effective dose to achieve a trend of decreasing ferritin Make dose adjustments in steps of 3.5 or 7 mg per kg and tailor adjustments to the individual patient’s response and therapeutic goals. In patients not adequately controlled with doses of 21 mg per kg (e.g., serum ferritin levels persistently above 2,500 mcg/L and not showing a decreasing trend over time), doses of up to 28 mg per kg may be considered. Doses above 28 mg per kg are not recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. Adjust dose based on serum ferritin levels If the serum ferritin falls below 1,000 mcg/L at 2 consecutive visits, consider dose reduction especially if the deferasirox tablets dose is greater than 17.5 mg/kg/day [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. If the serum ferritin falls below 500 mcg/L, interrupt deferasirox tablets therapy to minimize the risk of overchelation, and continue monthly monitoring [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] . Evaluate the need for ongoing chelation therapy for patients whose conditions no longer require regular blood transfusions. Use the minimum effective dose to maintain iron burden in the target range [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. Monitor blood counts, liver function, renal function and ferritin monthly [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.2 , 5.4 )]. Interrupt deferasirox tablets for pediatric patients who have acute illnesses, which can cause volume depletion, such as vomiting, diarrhea, or prolonged decreased oral intake, and monitor more frequently. Resume therapy as appropriate, based on assessments of renal function, when oral intake and volume status are normal [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 , 2.5 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)]. 2.2 Iron Overload in Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes Deferasirox tablets therapy should only be considered when a patient with NTDT syndrome has an LIC of at least 5 mg Fe/g dw and a serum ferritin greater than 300 mcg/L. Prior to starting therapy, obtain: LIC by liver biopsy or by an FDA-cleared or approved method for identifying patients for treatment with deferasirox therapy Serum ferritin level on at least 2 measurements 1-month apart [ see Clinical Studies (14)] Baseline renal function: Obtain serum creatinine in duplicate (due to variations in measurements). Obtain urinalyses and serum electrolytes to evaluate renal tubular function [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Serum transaminases and bilirubin [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Baseline auditory and ophthalmic examinations [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Initiating Therapy: The recommended initial dose of deferasirox tablets for patients with eGFR greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is 7 mg per kg body weight orally once daily. If the baseline LIC is greater than 15 mg Fe/g dw, consider increasing the dose to 14 mg/kg/day after 4 weeks. During Therapy: Monitor serum ferritin monthly to assess the patient’s response to therapy and to minimize the risk of overchelation [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. Interrupt treatment when serum ferritin is less than 300 mcg/L and obtain an LIC to determine whether the LIC has fallen to less than 3 mg Fe/g dw. Use the minimum effective dose to achieve a trend of decreasing ferritin. Monitor LIC every 6 months. After 6 months of therapy, if the LIC remains greater than 7 mg Fe/g dw, increase the dose of deferasirox to a maximum of 14 mg/kg/day. Do not exceed a maximum of 14 mg/kg/day. If after 6 months of therapy, the LIC is 3 to 7 mg Fe/g dw, continue treatment with deferasirox at no more than 7 mg/kg/day. When the LIC is less than 3 mg Fe/g dw, interrupt treatment with deferasirox and continue to monitor the LIC. Monitor blood counts, liver function, renal function and ferritin monthly [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.4)]. Increase monitoring frequency for pediatric patients who have acute illness, which can cause volume depletion, such as vomiting, diarrhea, or prolonged decreased oral intake. Consider dose interruption until oral intake and volume status are normal [ see Dosage and Administration (2.4, 2.5 ), Warnings and Precautions (5.1 ), Use in Specific Populations (8.4), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Restart treatment when the LIC rises again to more than 5 mg Fe/g dw. 2.3Administration Swallow deferasirox tablets once daily with water or other liquids, preferably at the same time each day. Take deferasirox tablets on an empty stomach or with a light meal (contains less than 7% fat content and approximately 250 calories). Examples of light meals include 1 whole wheat English muffin, 1 packet jelly (0.5 ounces), and skim milk (8 fluid ounces) or a turkey sandwich (2 oz. turkey on whole wheat bread w/ lettuce, tomato, and 1 packet mustard). Do not take deferasirox tablets with aluminum-containing antacid products [ see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . For patients who have difficulty swallowing whole tablets, deferasirox tablets may be crushed and mixed with soft foods (e.g., yogurt or applesauce) immediately prior to use and administered orally. Commercial crushers with serrated surfaces should be avoided for crushing a single 90 mg tablet. The dose should be immediately and completely consumed and not stored for future use. For patients who are currently on chelation therapy with deferasirox tablets for oral suspension and converting to deferasirox tablets, the dose should be about 30% lower, rounded to the nearest whole tablet.The table below provides additional information on dosing conversion to deferasirox tablets. Deferasirox Tablets for oral suspension (white round tablet) Deferasirox Tablets (film coated yellow oval tablet) Transfusion-Dependent Iron Overload Starting Dose 20 mg/kg/day 14 mg/kg/day Titration Increments 5 to 10 mg/kg 3.5 to 7 mg/kg Maximum Dose 40 mg/kg/day 28 mg/kg/day Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes Starting Dose 10 mg/kg/day 7 mg/kg/day Titration Increments 5 to 10 mg/kg 3.5 to 7 mg/kg Maximum Dose 20 mg/kg/day 14 mg/kg/day 2.4Use in Patients With Baseline Hepatic or Renal Impairment Patients with Baseline Hepatic Impairment Mild (Child-Pugh A) Hepatic Impairment: No dose adjustment is necessary. Moderate (Child-Pugh B) Hepatic Impairment: Reduce the starting dose by 50%. Severe (Child-Pugh C) Hepatic Impairment: Avoid deferasirox tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.7)]. Patients with Baseline Renal Impairment Do not use deferasirox tablets in adult or pediatric patients with eGFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) , Contraindications (4) ]. For patients with renal impairment (eGFR 40 to 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), reduce the starting dose by 50% [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . Exercise caution in pediatric patients with eGFR between 40 and 60 mL/minute/1.73 m 2 . If treatment is needed, use the minimum effective dose and monitor renal function frequently. Individualize dose titration based on improvement in renal injury [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . 2.5Dose Modifications for Decrease in Renal Function While on Deferasirox Tablets Deferasirox tablets is contraindicated in patients with eGFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Contraindications (4) ]. For decreases in renal function while receiving deferasirox tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ], modify the dose as follows: Transfusional Iron Overload Adults: If the serum creatinine increases by 33% or more above the average baseline measurement, repeat the serum creatinine within 1 week, and if still elevated by 33% or more, reduce the dose by 7 mg per kg. Pediatric Patients (ages 2 years to 17 years): Reduce the dose by 7 mg per kg if eGFR decreases by greater than 33% below the average baseline measurement and repeat eGFR within 1 week. Interrupt deferasirox tablets for acute illnesses, which can cause volume depletion, such as vomiting, diarrhea, or prolonged decreased oral intake, and monitor more frequently. Resume therapy as appropriate, based on assessments of renal function, when oral intake and volume status are normal. Avoid use of other nephrotoxic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . In the setting of decreased renal function, evaluate the risk benefit profile of continued deferasirox tablets use. Use the minimum effective deferasirox tablets dose and monitor renal function more frequently, by evaluating tubular and glomerular function. Titrate dosing based on renal injury. Consider dose reduction or interruption and less nephrotoxic-therapies until improvement of renal function. If signs of renal tubular or glomerular injury occur in the presence of other risk factors such as volume depletion, reduce or interrupt deferasirox tablets to prevent severe and irreversible renal injury [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . All Patients (regardless of age): Discontinue therapy for eGFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Contraindications (4) ]. Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes Adults: If the serum creatinine increases by 33% or more above the average baseline measurement, repeat the serum creatinine within 1 week, and if still elevated by 33% or more, interrupt therapy if the dose is 3.5 mg per kg, or reduce by 50% if the dose is 7 or 14 mg per kg. Pediatric Patients (ages 10 years -17 years): Reduce the dose by 3.5 mg per kg if eGFR decreases by greater than 33% below the average baseline measurement and repeat the eGFR within 1 week. Increase monitoring frequency for pediatric patients who have acute illnesses, which can cause volume depletion, such as vomiting, diarrhea, or prolonged decreased oral intake. Consider dose interruption until oral intake and volume status are normal. Avoid use of other nephrotoxic drugs [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Consider dose reduction or interruption and less nephrotoxic therapies until improvement of renal function. If signs of renal tubular or glomerular injury occur in the presence of other risk factors such as volume depletion, reduce or interrupt deferasirox tablets to prevent severe and irreversible renal injury [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . 2.6Dose Modifications Based on Concomitant Medications UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGT) Inducers Concomitant use of UGT inducers decreases systemic exposure. Avoid the concomitant use of strong UGT inducers (e.g., rifampicin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, ritonavir) . If you must administer deferasirox tablets with a Strong UGT inducer, consider increasing the initial dose by 50%, and monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical responses for further dose modification [ see Dosage and Administration (2.1,2.2), Drug Interactions (7.5)]. Bile Acid Sequestrants Concomitant use of bile acid sequestrants decreases systemic exposure. Avoid the concomitant use of bile acid sequestrants (e.g., cholestyramine, colesevelam, colestipol). If you must administer deferasirox tablets with a bile acid sequestrant, consider increasing the initial dose by 50%, and monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical responses for further dose modification [ see Dosage and Administration (2.1,2.2 ) Drug Interactions (7.6)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Transfusional Iron Overload: Initial dose for patients with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m2 is 14 mg per kg (calculated to nearest whole tablet) once daily. ( 2.1 ) • NTDT Syndromes: Initial dose for patients with eGFR greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m2 is 7 mg per kg (calculated to nearest whole tablet once daily. ( 2.2 ) • See full prescribing information for information regarding monitoring, administration, and dose-reductions for organ impairment. ( 2.1 , 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 ) 2.1 Transfusional Iron Overload Deferasirox therapy should only be considered when a patient has evidence of chronic transfusional iron overload. Prior to starting therapy, or increasing dose, evaluate: Serum ferritin level Baseline renal function: Obtain serum creatinine in duplicate (due to variations in measurements). Obtain urinalyses and serum electrolytes to evaluate renal tubular function [see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Serum transaminases and bilirubin [see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Baseline auditory and ophthalmic examinations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Initiating Therapy: The recommended initial dose of deferasirox for patients 2 years of age and older with eGFR greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is 14 mg per kg body weight orally, once daily. During Therapy: Monitor serum ferritin monthly and adjust the dose of deferasirox, if necessary, every 3 to 6 months based on serum ferritin trends. Make dose adjustments in steps of 3.5 or 7 mg per kg and tailor adjustments to the individual patient’s response and therapeutic goals. Doses above 28 mg per kg are not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. Adjust dose based on serum ferritin levels If the serum ferritin falls below 1,000 mcg/L at 2 consecutive visits, consider dose reduction especially if the deferasirox dose is greater than 17.5 mg/kg/day [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. If the serum ferritin falls below 500 mcg/L, interrupt deferasirox therapy to minimize the risk of overchelation, and continue monthly monitoring [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] . Monitor blood counts, liver function, renal function and ferritin monthly [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.4)]. Interrupt deferasirox for pediatric patients who have acute illnesses, which can cause volume depletion, such as vomiting, diarrhea, or prolonged decreased oral intake, and monitor more frequently. Resume therapy as appropriate, based on assessments of renal function, when oral intake and volume status are normal [see Dosage and Administration (2.4, 2.5), Warnings and Precautions (5.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.4), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Prior to starting therapy, obtain: LIC by liver biopsy or by an FDA-cleared or approved method for identifying patients for treatment with deferasirox therapy Serum ferritin level on at least 2 measurements 1-month apart [see Clinical Studies (14)] Baseline renal function: Obtain serum creatinine in duplicate (due to variations in measurements). Obtain urinalyses and serum electrolytes to evaluate renal tubular function [see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . Serum transaminases and bilirubin [see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Baseline auditory and ophthalmic examinations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Initiating Therapy : The recommended initial dose of deferasirox tablets for patients with eGFR greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is 7 mg per kg body weight orally once daily. During Therapy : Monitor serum ferritin monthly to assess the patient’s response to therapy and to minimize the risk of overchelation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] . Monitor blood counts, liver function, renal function and ferritin monthly [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.4)] . Consider dose interruption until oral intake and volume status are normal [see Dosage and Administration (2.4, 2.5), Warnings and Precautions (5.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.4), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 2.3 Administration Swallow deferasirox tablets once daily with water or other liquids, preferably at the same time each day. Do not take deferasirox tablets with aluminum-containing antacid products [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. For patients who are currently on chelation therapy with deferasirox tablets for oral suspension and converting to deferasirox tablets, the dose should be about 30% lower, rounded to the nearest whole tablet. The table below provides additional information on dosing conversion to deferasirox tablets. Deferasirox Tablets for Oral Suspension Deferasirox Tablets Transfusion-Dependent Iron Overload Starting Dose 20 mg/kg/day 14 mg/kg/day Titration Increments 5 - 10 mg/kg 3.5 - 7 mg/kg Maximum Dose 40 mg/kg/day 28 mg/kg/day Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes Starting Dose 10 mg/kg/day 7 mg/kg/day Titration Increments 5 -10 mg/kg 3.5 - 7 mg/kg Maximum Dose 20 mg/kg/day 14 mg/kg/day 2.4 Use in Patients With Baseline Hepatic or Renal Impairment Patients with Baseline Hepatic Impairment Mild (Child-Pugh A) Hepatic Impairment: No dose adjustment is necessary. Severe (Child-Pugh C) Hepatic Impairment: Avoid deferasirox tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.7)] . Patients with Baseline Renal Impairment Do not use deferasirox in adult or pediatric patients with eGFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Dosage and Administration (2.5), Contraindications (4)]. For patients with renal impairment (eGFR 40-60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), reduce the starting dose by 50% [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]. Individualize dose titration based on improvement in renal injury [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]. 2.5 Dose Modifications for Decreases in Renal Function While on Deferasirox Deferasirox is contraindicated in patients with eGFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Contraindications (4)]. For decreases in renal function while receiving deferasirox [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)], modify the dose as follows: Transfusional Iron Overload Adults: If the serum creatinine increases by 33% or more above the average baseline measurement, repeat the serum creatinine within 1 week, and if still elevated by 33% or more, reduce the dose by 7 mg per kg. Pediatric Patients (ages 2 years-17 years): Reduce the dose by 7 mg per kg if eGFR decreases by greater than 33% below the average baseline measurement and repeat eGFR within 1 week. Interrupt deferasirox for acute illnesses, which can cause volume depletion, such as vomiting, diarrhea, or prolonged decreased oral intake, and monitor more frequently. Avoid use of other nephrotoxic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. In the setting of decreased renal function, evaluate the risk benefit profile of continued deferasirox use. Use the minimum effective deferasirox dose and monitor renal function more frequently, by evaluating tubular and glomerular function. If signs of renal tubular or glomerular injury occur in the presence of other risk factors such as volume depletion, reduce or interrupt deferasirox to prevent severe and irreversible renal injury [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. All Patients (regardless of age): Discontinue therapy for eGFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Contraindications (4)]. Avoid use of other nephrotoxic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . If signs of renal tubular or glomerular injury occur in the presence of other risk factors such as volume depletion, reduce or interrupt deferasirox to prevent severe and irreversible renal injury [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . 2.6 Dose Modifications Based on Concomitant Medications UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGT) Inducers Concomitant use of UGT inducers decreases systemic exposure. Avoid the concomitant use of strong UGT inducers (e.g., rifampicin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, ritonavir). If you must administer deferasirox tablets with a strong UGT inducer, consider increasing the initial dose by 50%, and monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical responses for further dose modification [see Dosage and Administration (2.1, 2.2), Drug Interactions (7.5)]. If you must administer deferasirox tablets with a bile acid sequestrant, consider increasing the initial dose by 50%, and monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical responses for further dose modification [see Dosage and Administration (2.1, 2.2), Drug Interactions (7.6)]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Transfusional Iron Overload: Initial dose for patients with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is 14 mg per kg (calculated to nearest whole sachet content for granules) once daily. ( 2.1 ) NTDT Syndromes: Initial dose for patients with eGFR greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is 7 mg per kg (calculated to nearest whole sachet content for granules) once daily. (2.2) See full prescribing information for information regarding monitoring, administration, and dose-reductions for organ impairment. (2.1 , 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4) 2.1 Transfusional Iron Overload Deferasirox oral granules therapy should only be considered when a patient has evidence of chronic transfusional iron overload. Obtain urinalyses and serum electrolytes to evaluate renal tubular function [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Serum transaminases and bilirubin [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Baseline auditory and ophthalmic examinations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] Initiating Therapy: The recommended initial dose of deferasirox oral granules for patients 2 years of age and older with eGFR greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is 14 mg per kg body weight orally, once daily. Calculate doses (mg per kg per day) to the nearest whole sachet content for granules. During Therapy: Monitor serum ferritin monthly and adjust the dose of deferasirox oral granules, if necessary, every 3 to 6 months based on serum ferritin trends. Doses above 28 mg per kg are not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Adjust dose based on serum ferritin levels If the serum ferritin falls below 1,000 mcg/L at 2 consecutive visits, consider dose reduction especially if the deferasirox oral granules dose is greater than 17.5 mg/kg/day [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. If the serum ferritin falls below 500 mcg/L, interrupt deferasirox oral granules therapy to minimize the risk of overchelation, and continue monthly monitoring [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. Use the minimum effective dose to maintain iron burden in the target range [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ]. Monitor blood counts, liver function, renal function and ferritin monthly [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.2 , 5.4) ] . Interrupt deferasirox oral granules for pediatric patients who have acute illnesses, which can cause volume depletion, such as vomiting, diarrhea, or prolonged decreased oral intake, and monitor more frequently. Resume therapy as appropriate, based on assessments of renal function, when oral intake and volume status are normal [see Dosage and Administration (2.4 , 2.5), Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.2 Iron Overload in Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes Deferasirox oral granules therapy should only be considered when a patient with NTDT syndrome has an LIC of at least 5 mg Fe/g dw and a serum ferritin greater than 300 mcg/L. Obtain urinalyses and serum electrolytes to evaluate renal tubular function [see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Serum transaminases and bilirubin [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Baseline auditory and ophthalmic examinations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] Initiating Therapy: The recommended initial dose of deferasirox oral granules for patients with eGFR greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is 7 mg per kg body weight orally once daily. During Therapy: Monitor serum ferritin monthly to assess the patient’s response to therapy and to minimize the risk of overchelation [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . Increase monitoring frequency for pediatric patients who have acute illness, which can cause volume depletion, such as vomiting, diarrhea, or prolonged decreased oral intake.Consider dose interruption until oral intake and volume status are normal [see Dosage and Administration (2.4 , 2.5), Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.3 Administration Take deferasirox oral granules on an empty stomach or with a light meal (contains less than 7% fat content and approximately 250 calories). turkey on whole wheat bread w/ lettuce, tomato, and 1 packet mustard) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Administer deferasirox oral granules by sprinkling the full dose on soft food (e.g., yogurt or applesauce) immediately prior to use and administered orally. Deferasirox oral granules should be taken once a day, preferably at the same time each day. Do not take deferasirox oral granules with aluminum-containing antacid products [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . For patients who are currently on chelation therapy with deferasirox tablets for oral suspension and converting to deferasirox oral granules, the dose should be about 30% lower, rounded to the nearest whole sachet content for granules. The table below provides additional information on dosing conversion to deferasirox granules. Deferasirox Tablets for Oral S uspension Deferasirox Oral Granules Transfusion-Dependent Iron Overload Starting Dose 20 mg/kg/day 14 mg/kg/day Titration Increments 5 to10 mg/kg 3.5 to 7 mg/kg Maximum Dose 40 mg/kg/day 28 mg/kg/day Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes Starting Dose 10 mg/kg/day 7 mg/kg/day Titration Increments 5 to10 mg/kg 3.5 to 7 mg/kg Maximum Dose 20 mg/kg/day 14 mg/kg/day 2.4 Use in Patients With Baseline Hepatic or Renal Impairment Patients with Baseline Hepatic Impairment Mild (Child-Pugh A) Hepatic Impairment: No dose adjustment is necessary. Severe (Child-Pugh C) Hepatic Impairment: Avoid deferasirox oral granules [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ]. Patients with Baseline Renal Impairment Do not use deferasirox oral granules in adult or pediatric patients with eGFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) , Contraindications (4) ] . 2.5 Dose Modifications for Decreases in Renal Function While on Deferasirox Oral Granules Deferasirox oral granules are contraindicated in patients with eGFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Contraindications (4) ]. For decreases in renal function while receiving deferasirox oral granules [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] , modify the dose as follows: Transfusional Iron Overload Adults: If the serum creatinine increases by 33% or more above the average baseline measurement, repeat the serum creatinine within 1 week, and if still elevated by 33% or more, reduce the dose by 7 mg per kg. Interrupt deferasirox oral granules for acute illnesses, which can cause volume depletion, such as vomiting, diarrhea, or prolonged decreased oral intake, and monitor more frequently. Avoid use of other nephrotoxic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. In the setting of decreased renal function, evaluate the risk benefit profile of continued deferasirox oral granules use. Use the minimum effective deferasirox oral granules dose and monitor renal function more frequently, by evaluating tubular and glomerular function. If signs of renal tubular or glomerular injury occur in the presence of other risk factors such as volume depletion, reduce or interrupt deferasirox oral granules to prevent severe and irreversible renal injury [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes Adults If the serum creatinine increases by 33% or more above the average baseline measurement, repeat the serum creatinine within 1 week, and if still elevated by 33% or more, interrupt therapy if the dose is 3.5 mg per kg, or reduce by 50% if the dose is 7 or 14 mg per kg. Pediatric Patients (ages 10 years to17 years): Reduce the dose by 3.5 mg per kg if eGFR decreases by greater than 33% below the average baseline measurement and repeat the eGFR within 1 week. All Patients (regardless of age): Discontinue therapy for eGFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Contraindications (4) ] . If you must administer deferasirox oral granules with a strong UGT inducer, consider increasing the initial dose by 50%, and monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical responses for further dose modification [see Dosage and Administration (2.1 , 2.2), Drug Interactions (7.5) ] . If you must administer deferasirox oral granules with a bile acid sequestrant, consider increasing the initial dose by 50%, and monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical responses for further dose modification [see Dosage and Administration (2.1, 2.2) , Drug Interactions (7.6) ] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Transfusional Iron Overload: Initial dose for patients with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is 20 mg per kg body weight once daily, as oral suspension. Calculate dose to the nearest whole tablet. (2.1) NTDT Syndromes: Initial dose for patients with eGFR greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is 10 mg per kg body weight once daily, as oral suspension. (2.2) 2.1 Transfusional Iron Overload Deferasirox tablets for oral suspension therapy should only be considered when a patient has evidence of chronic transfusional iron overload. Prior to starting therapy or increasing dose, evaluate: • Serum ferritin level • Baseline renal function: o Obtain serum creatinine in duplicate (due to variations in measurements) to establish accurate baseline o Calculate the estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). o Obtain urinalyses and serum electrolytes to evaluate renal tubular function [see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. • Serum transaminases and bilirubin [see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] • Baseline auditory and ophthalmic examinations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Initiating Therapy: The recommended initial dose of deferasirox tablets for oral suspension for patients 2 years of age and older with eGFR greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is 20 mg per kg body weight orally, once daily. During therapy: • Monitor serum ferritin monthly and adjust the dose of deferasirox tablets for oral suspension, if necessary, every 3 to 6 months based on serum ferritin trends. • Use the minimum effective dose to achieve a trend of decreasing ferritin. • Make dose adjustments in steps of 5 or 10 mg per kg and tailor adjustments to the individual patient’s response and therapeutic goals. • In patients not adequately controlled with doses of 30 mg per kg (e.g., serum ferritin levels persistently above 2,500 mcg/L and not showing a decreasing trend over time), doses of up to 40 mg per kg may be considered. Doses above 40 mg per kg are not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. • Adjust dose based on serum ferritin levels o If the serum ferritin falls below 1,000 mcg/L at 2 consecutive visits, consider dose reduction, especially if the dose is greater than 25 mg/kg/day [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. o If the serum ferritin falls below 500 mcg/L, interrupt deferasirox tablets for oral suspension to minimize the risk of overchelation, and continue monthly monitoring [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] . o Evaluate the need for ongoing chelation therapy for patients whose conditions no longer require regular blood transfusions. o Use the minimum effective dose to maintain iron burden in the target range [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. • Monitor blood counts, liver function, renal function and ferritin monthly [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.4)]. • Interrupt deferasirox tablets for oral suspension for pediatric patients who have acute illnesses, which can cause volume depletion, such as vomiting, diarrhea, or prolonged decreased oral intake, and monitor more frequently. 2.2 Iron Overload in Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes Deferasirox tablets for oral suspension therapy should only be considered when a patient with NTDT syndrome has an LIC of at least 5 mg Fe/g dw and a serum ferritin greater than 300 mcg/L. Prior to starting therapy, obtain: • LIC by liver biopsy or by an FDA-cleared or approved method for identifying patients for treatment with deferasirox therapy • Serum ferritin level on at least 2 measurements 1-month apart [see Clinical Studies (14)] • Baseline renal function: o Obtain serum creatinine in duplicate (due to variations in measurements) to establish accurate baseline o Calculate eGFR. o Obtain urinalyses and serum electrolytes to evaluate renal tubular function [see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . • Serum transaminases and bilirubin [see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] • Baseline auditory and ophthalmic examinations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Initiating Therapy: The recommended initial dose of deferasirox tablets for oral suspension for patients with eGFR greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is 10 mg per kg body weight orally once daily. If the baseline LIC is greater than 15 mg Fe/g dw, consider increasing the dose to 20 mg/kg/day after 4 weeks. During Therapy: Monitor serum ferritin monthly to assess the patient’s response to therapy and to minimize the risk of overchelation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] . After 6 months of therapy, if the LIC remains greater than 7 mg Fe/g dw, increase the dose of deferasirox to a maximum of 20 mg/kg/day. Do not exceed a maximum of 20 mg/kg/day. If after 6 months of therapy, the LIC is 3 to 7 mg Fe/g dw, continue treatment with deferasirox at no more than 10 mg/kg/day. Consider dose interruption until oral intake and volume status are normal [see Dosage and Administration (2.4, 2.5), Warnings and Precautions (5.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.4), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 2.3 Administration Do not chew tablets or swallow them whole. Take deferasirox tablets for oral suspension once daily on an empty stomach at least 30 minutes before food, preferably at the same time each day. Completely disperse tablets by stirring in water, orange juice, or apple juice until a fine suspension is obtained. Disperse doses of less than 1 g in 3.5 ounces of liquid and doses of 1 g or greater in 7 ounces of liquid. After swallowing the suspension, resuspend any residue in a small volume of liquid and swallow. Do not take deferasirox tablets for oral suspension with aluminum-containing antacid products [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] . 2.4 Use in Patients With Baseline Hepatic or Renal Impairment Patients with Baseline Hepatic Impairment Mild (Child-Pugh A) Hepatic Impairment: No dose adjustment is necessary. Severe (Child-Pugh C) Hepatic Impairment: Avoid deferasirox tablets for oral suspension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.7)] . Patients with Baseline Renal Impairment Do not use deferasirox tablets for oral suspension in adult or pediatric patients with eGFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Dosage and Administration (2.5), Contraindications (4)]. For patients with renal impairment (eGFR 40 to 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), reduce the starting dose by 50% [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)] . Exercise caution in pediatric patients with eGFR between 40 and 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 . 2.5 Dose Modifications for Decreases in Renal Function While on Deferasirox Tablets for Oral Suspension Deferasirox tablets for oral suspension is contraindicated in patients with eGFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Contraindications (4)]. For decreases in renal function while receiving deferasirox tablets for oral suspension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)], modify the dose as follows: Transfusional Iron Overload Adults: If the serum creatinine increases by 33% or more above the average baseline measurement, repeat the serum creatinine within 1 week, and if still elevated by 33% or more, reduce the dose by 10 mg per kg. Pediatric Patients (ages 2 years to 17 years): Reduce the dose by 10 mg/kg/day if eGFR decreases by greater than 33% below the average baseline measurement andrepeat the eGFR within 1 week. Interrupt deferasirox tablets for oral suspension for acute illnesses, which can cause volume depletion, such as vomiting, diarrhea, or prolonged decreased oral intake, and monitor more frequently. In the setting of decreased renal function, evaluate the risk benefit profile of continued deferasirox tablets for oral suspension use. Use the minimum effective deferasirox tablets for oral suspension dose and monitor renal function more frequently, by evaluating tubular and glomerular function. If signs of renal tubular or glomerular injury occur in the presence of other risk factors such as volume depletion, reduce or interrupt deferasirox tablets for oral suspension to prevent severe and irreversible renal injury [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. All Patients (regardless of age): Discontinue therapy for eGFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73m 2 [see Contraindications (4)]. Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes Adults: If the serum creatinine increases by 33% or more above the average baseline measurement, repeat the serum creatinine within 1 week, and if still elevated by 33% or more, interrupt therapy if the dose is 5 mg per kg, or reduce by 50% if the dose is 10 or 20 mg per kg. Pediatric Patients (ages 10 years to17 years): Reduce the dose by 5 mg/kg/day if eGFR decreases by greater than 33% below the average baseline measurement and repeat the eGFR within 1 week. All Patients (regardless of age): ● Discontinue therapy for eGFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Contraindications (4)]. 2.6 Dose Modifications Based on Concomitant Medications UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGT) Inducers Concomitant use of UGT inducers decreases deferasirox tablets for oral suspension systemic exposure. Avoid the concomitant use of potent UGT inducers (e.g., rifampicin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, ritonavir) with deferasirox tablets for oral suspension. If you must administer deferasirox tablets for oral suspension with 1 of these agents, consider increasing the initial dose of deferasirox tablets for oral suspension by 50%, and monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical responses for further dose modification [see Dosage and Administration (2.1, 2.2), Drug Interactions (7.5)] . Bile Acid Sequestrants Concomitant use of bile acid sequestrants decreases deferasirox tablets for oral suspension systemic exposure. Avoid the concomitant use of bile acid sequestrants (e.g., cholestyramine, colesevelam, colestipol) with deferasirox tablets for oral suspension. If you must administer deferasirox tablets for oral suspension with 1 of these agents, consider increasing the initial dose of deferasirox tablets for oral suspension by 50%, and monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical responses for further dose modification [see Dosage and Administration (2.1, 2.2), Drug Interactions (7.6)] . ( 2.1 ) NTDT Syndromes: Initial dose for patients with eGFR greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m2 is 7 mg per kg (calculated to nearest whole sachet content for granules) once daily. Prior to starting therapy, or increasing dose, evaluate: Serum ferritin level Baseline renal function: Obtain serum creatinine in duplicate (due to variations in measurements) Calculate the estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). Obtain urinalyses and serum electrolytes to evaluate renal tubular function [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Serum transaminases and bilirubin [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Baseline auditory and ophthalmic examinations [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] Initiating Therapy: The recommended initial dose of deferasirox for patients 2 years of age and older with eGFR greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is 14 mg per kg body weight orally, once daily. Doses above 28 mg per kg are not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )]. Adjust dose based on serum ferritin levels If the serum ferritin falls below 1,000 mcg/L at 2 consecutive visits, consider dose reduction, especially if the deferasirox dose is greater than 17.5 mg/kg/day [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. If the serum ferritin falls below 500 mcg/L, interrupt deferasirox therapy to minimize the risk of overchelation and continue monthly monitoring. Use the minimum effective dose to maintain iron burden in the target range . [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.6 )]. Monitor blood counts, liver function, renal function and ferritin monthly [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.4 )]. Resume therapy as appropriate, based on assessments of renal function, when oral intake and volume status are normal [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 , 2.5 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 2.2 Iron Overload in Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes Deferasirox therapy should only be considered when a patient with NTDT syndrome has an LIC of at least 5 mg Fe/g dw and a serum ferritin greater than 300 mcg/L. Prior to starting therapy, obtain: LIC by liver biopsy or by an FDA-cleared or approved method for identifying patients for treatment with deferasirox therapy Serum ferritin level on at least 2 measurements 1-month apart [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] Baseline renal function: Obtain serum creatinine in duplicate (due to variations in measurements) Calculate the estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). Obtain urinalyses and serum electrolytes to evaluate renal tubular function [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Serum transaminases and bilirubin [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Baseline auditory and ophthalmic examinations [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] Initiating Therapy: The recommended initial dose of deferasirox for patients with eGFR greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is 7 mg per kg body weight orally once daily. During Therapy: Monitor serum ferritin monthly to assess the patient's reponse to therapy and to minimize the risk of overchelation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. Monitor blood counts, liver function, renal function and ferritin monthly [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.4 )] . Consider dose interruption until oral intake and volume status are normal [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 , 2.5 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . turkey on whole wheat bread w/ lettuce, tomato, and 1 packet mustard) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Do not take deferasirox oral granules with aluminum-containing antacid products [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 )]. The table below provides additional information on dosing conversion to deferasirox oral granules. Deferasirox Tablets for oral suspension (white round tablet) Deferasirox Oral Granules (Off white to yellowish granular powder) Transfusion-Dependent Iron Overload Starting Dose 20 mg/kg/day 14 mg/kg/day Titration Increments 5–10 mg/kg 3.5–7 mg/kg Maximum Dose 40 mg/kg/day 28 mg/kg/day Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes Starting Dose 10 mg/kg/day 7 mg/kg/day Titration Increments 5–10 mg/kg 3.5–7 mg/kg Maximum Dose 20 mg/kg/day 14 mg/kg/day 2.4 Use in Patients with Baseline Hepatic or Renal Impairment Patients with Baseline Hepatic Impairment Mild (Child-Pugh A) Hepatic Impairment: No dose adjustment is necessary. Severe (Child-Pugh C) Hepatic Impairment: Avoid deferasirox oral granules [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )]. Patients with Baseline Renal Impairment Do not use deferasirox in adult or pediatric patients with eGFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ), Contraindications ( 4 )]. For patients with renal impairment (eGFR 40-60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), reduce the starting dose by 50% [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. Individualize dose titration based on improvement in renal injury [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. 2.5 Dose Modifications for Decreases in Renal Function while on Deferasirox Deferasirox is contraindicated in patients with eGFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. For decreases in renal function while receiving deferasirox [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )], modify the dose as follows: Transfusional Iron Overload Adults: If the serum creatinine increases by 33% or more above the average baseline measurement, repeat the serum creatinine within 1 week, and if still elevated by 33% or more, reduce the dose by 7 mg per kg. Pediatric Patients (ages 2 years-17 years): Reduce the dose by 7 mg per kg if eGFR decreases by greater than 33% below the average baseline measurement and repeat eGFR within 1 week Interrupt deferasirox for acute illnesses which can cause volume depletion, such as vomiting, diarrhea, or prolonged decreased oral intake, and monitor more frequently. If signs of renal tubular or glomerular injury occur in the presence of other risk factors such as volume depletion, reduce or interrupt deferasirox to prevent severe and irreversible renal injury [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. All Patients (regardless of age): Discontinue therapy for eGFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Contraindications ( 4 )]. Increase monitoring frequency for pediatric patients who have acute illnesses which can cause volume depletion, such as vomiting, diarrhea, or prolonged decreased oral intake. Avoid use of other nephrotoxic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. If signs of renal tubular or glomerular injury occur in the presence of other risk factors such as volume depletion, reduce or interrupt deferasirox to prevent severe and irreversible renal injury [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ]. All Patients (regardless of age): Discontinue therapy for eGFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73/m 2 [see Contraindications ( 4 )] . If you must administer deferasirox oral granules with a strong UGT inducer, consider increasing the initial dose by 50%, and monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical responses for further dose modification [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 , 2.2 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.5 )]. If you must administer deferasirox oral granules with a bile acid sequestrant, consider increasing the initial dose by 50%, and monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical responses for further dose modification [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 , 2.2 ), Drug Interactions ( 7.6 )]. ( 2.1 , 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 ) 2.1 Transfusional Iron Overload Deferasirox granules therapy should only be considered when a patient has evidence of chronic transfusional iron overload. Serum transaminases and bilirubin [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Baseline auditory and ophthalmic examinations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] Initiating Therapy: The recommended initial dose of deferasirox for patients 2 years of age and older with eGFR greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is 14 mg per kg body weight orally, once daily. Make dose adjustments in steps of 3.5 or 7 mg per kg and tailor adjustments to the individual patient's response and therapeutic goals. Adjust dose based on serum ferritin levels If the serum ferritin falls below 1,000 mcg/L at 2 consecutive visits, consider dose reduction especially if the deferasirox dose is greater than 17.5 mg/kg/day [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . If the serum ferritin falls below 500 mcg/L, interrupt deferasirox therapy to minimize the risk of overchelation, and continue monthly monitoring [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . Interrupt deferasirox granules for pediatric patients who have acute illnesses, which can cause volume depletion, such as vomiting, diarrhea, or prolonged decreased oral intake, and monitor more frequently. Resume therapy as appropriate, based on assessments of renal function, when oral intake and volume status are normal [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 , 2.5 ), Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 2.2 Iron Overload in Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes Deferasirox granules therapy should only be considered when a patient with NTDT syndrome has an LIC of at least 5 mg Fe/g dw and a serum ferritin greater than 300 mcg/L. Prior to starting therapy, obtain: LIC by liver biopsy or by an FDA-cleared or approved method for identifying patients for treatment with deferasirox therapy Serum ferritin level on at least 2 measurements 1-month apart [see Clinical Studies (14) ] Baseline renal function: Obtain serum creatinine in duplicate (due to variations in measurements). Serum transaminases and bilirubin [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) , Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Baseline auditory and ophthalmic examinations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ] Initiating Therapy: The recommended initial dose of deferasirox for patients with eGFR greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is 7 mg per kg body weight orally once daily. During Therapy: Monitor serum ferritin monthly to assess the patient's response to therapy and to minimize the risk of overchelation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] . Consider dose interruption until oral intake and volume status are normal [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 , 2.5 ), Warnings and Precautions (5.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.4) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Administer deferasirox granules by sprinkling the full dose on soft food (e.g., yogurt or applesauce) immediately prior to use and administered orally. Deferasirox granules should be taken once a day, preferably at the same time each day. Do not take deferasirox granules with aluminum-containing antacid products [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ] . For patients who are currently on chelation therapy with deferasirox tablets for oral suspension and converting to deferasirox granules, the dose should be about 30% lower, rounded to the nearest whole sachet content for granules. Deferasirox Tablets for oral suspension Deferasirox Granules Transfusion-Dependent Iron Overload Starting Dose 20 mg/kg/day 14 mg/kg/day Titration Increments 5-10 mg/kg 3.5-7 mg/kg Maximum Dose 40 mg/kg/day 28 mg/kg/day Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes Starting Dose 10 mg/kg/day 7 mg/kg/day Titration Increments 5-10 mg/kg 3.5-7 mg/kg Maximum Dose 20 mg/kg/day 14 mg/kg/day 2.4 Use in Patients with Baseline Hepatic or Renal Impairment Patients with Baseline Hepatic Impairment Mild (Child-Pugh A) Hepatic Impairment: No dose adjustment is necessary. Severe (Child-Pugh C) Hepatic Impairment: Avoid deferasirox granules [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) , Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ] . Patients with Baseline Renal Impairment Do not use deferasirox granules in adult or pediatric patients with eGFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) , Contraindications (4) ] . For patients with renal impairment (eGFR 40-60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), reduce the starting dose by 50% [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ] . 2.5 Dose Modifications for Decreases in Renal Function While on Deferasirox Granules Deferasirox granules are contraindicated in patients with eGFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Contraindications (4) ] . For decreases in renal function while receiving deferasirox granules [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] , modify the dose as follows: Transfusional Iron Overload Adults: If the serum creatinine increases by 33% or more above the average baseline measurement, repeat the serum creatinine within 1 week, and if still elevated by 33% or more, reduce the dose by 7 mg per kg. Interrupt deferasirox granules for acute illnesses, which can cause volume depletion, such as vomiting, diarrhea, or prolonged decreased oral intake, and monitor more frequently. If signs of renal tubular or glomerular injury occur in the presence of other risk factors such as volume depletion, reduce or interrupt deferasirox granules to prevent severe and irreversible renal injury [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Pediatric Patients (ages 10 years-17 years): Reduce the dose by 3.5 mg per kg if eGFR decreases by greater than 33% below the average baseline measurement and repeat the eGFR within 1 week. If signs of renal tubular or glomerular injury occur in the presence of other risk factors such as volume depletion, reduce or interrupt deferasirox to prevent severe and irreversible renal injury [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . If you must administer deferasirox granules with a strong UGT inducer, consider increasing the initial dose by 50%, and monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical responses for further dose modification [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 , 2.2 ), Drug Interactions (7.5) ] . If you must administer deferasirox granules with a bile acid sequestrant, consider increasing the initial dose by 50%, and monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical responses for further dose modification [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 , 2.2 ), Drug Interactions (7.6) ] . ( 2.1 ) NTDT Syndromes: Initial dose for patients with eGFR greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is 10 mg per kg body weight once daily, as oral suspension. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Transfusional Iron Overload Exjade therapy should only be considered when a patient has evidence of chronic transfusional iron overload. Prior to starting therapy or increasing dose, evaluate: Serum ferritin level Baseline renal function: Obtain serum creatinine in duplicate (due to variations in measurements) to establish accurate baseline Calculate the estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). Serum transaminases and bilirubin [see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Baseline auditory and ophthalmic examinations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Initiating Therapy: The recommended initial dose of Exjade for patients 2 years of age and older with eGFR greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is 20 mg per kg body weight orally, once daily. During Therapy: Monitor serum ferritin monthly and adjust the dose of Exjade, if necessary, every 3-6 months based on serum ferritin trends. Make dose adjustments in steps of 5 or 10 mg per kg and tailor adjustments to the individual patient’s response and therapeutic goals. In patients not adequately controlled with doses of 30 mg per kg (e.g., serum ferritin levels persistently above 2,500 mcg/L and not showing a decreasing trend over time), doses of up to 40 mg per kg may be considered. Doses above 40 mg per kg are not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] . Adjust dose based on serum ferritin levels If the serum ferritin falls below 1,000 mcg/L at 2 consecutive visits, consider dose reduction, especially if the dose is greater than 25 mg/kg/day [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)] . If the serum ferritin falls below 500 mcg/L, interrupt Exjade to minimize the risk of overchelation, and continue monthly monitoring [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] . Use the minimum effective dose to maintain iron burden in the target range [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] . Interrupt Exjade for pediatric patients who have acute illnesses, which can cause volume depletion, such as vomiting, diarrhea, or prolonged decreased oral intake, and monitor more frequently. Resume therapy as appropriate, based on assessments of renal function, when oral intake and volume status are normal [see Dosage and Administration (2.4, 2.5), Warnings and Precautions (5.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.4), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 2.2 Iron Overload in Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes Exjade therapy should only be considered when a patient with NTDT syndrome has an LIC of at least 5 mg Fe/g dw and a serum ferritin greater than 300 mcg/L. Prior to starting therapy, obtain: LIC by liver biopsy or by an FDA-cleared or approved method for identifying patients for treatment with deferasirox therapy Serum ferritin level on at least 2 measurements 1-month apart [see Clinical Studies (14)] Baseline renal function: Obtain serum creatinine in duplicate (due to variations in measurements) to establish accurate baseline Calculate eGFR. Serum transaminases and bilirubin [see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Baseline auditory and ophthalmic examinations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Initiating Therapy: The recommended initial dose of Exjade for patients with eGFR greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is 10 mg per kg body weight orally once daily. If after 6 months of therapy, the LIC is 3-7 mg Fe/g dw, continue treatment with deferasirox at no more than 10 mg/kg/day. Take Exjade once daily on an empty stomach at least 30 minutes before food, preferably at the same time each day. Do not take Exjade with aluminum-containing antacid products [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. Severe (Child-Pugh C) Hepatic Impairment: Avoid Exjade [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.7)] . Patients with Baseline Renal Impairment Do not use Exjade in adult or pediatric patients with eGFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Dosage and Administration (2.5), Contraindications (4)] . For patients with renal impairment (eGFR 40-60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 ), reduce the starting dose by 50% [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)] . Individualize dose titration based on improvement in renal injury [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)] . 2.5 Dose Modifications for Decreases in Renal Function While on Exjade Exjade is contraindicated in patients with eGFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Contraindications (4)]. For decreases in renal function while receiving Exjade [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] , modify the dose as follows: Transfusional Iron Overload Adults: If the serum creatinine increases by 33% or more above the average baseline measurement, repeat the serum creatinine within 1 week, and if still elevated by 33% or more, reduce the dose by 10 mg per kg. Pediatric Patients (ages 2 years–17 years): Reduce the dose by 10 mg/kg/day if eGFR decreases by greater than 33% below the average baseline measurement and repeat the eGFR within 1 week. Interrupt Exjade for acute illnesses, which can cause volume depletion, such as vomiting, diarrhea, or prolonged decreased oral intake, and monitor more frequently. In the setting of decreased renal function, evaluate the risk benefit profile of continued Exjade use. Use the minimum effective Exjade dose and monitor renal function more frequently, by evaluating tubular and glomerular function. If signs of renal tubular or glomerular injury occur in the presence of other risk factors such as volume depletion, reduce or interrupt Exjade to prevent severe and irreversible renal injury [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . All Patients (regardless of age): Discontinue therapy for eGFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Contraindications (4)] . Pediatric Patients (ages 10 years–17 years): Reduce the dose by 5 mg/kg/day if eGFR decreases by greater than 33% below the average baseline measurement and repeat the eGFR within 1 week. 2.6 Dose Modifications Based on Concomitant Medications UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGT) Inducers Concomitant use of UGT inducers decreases Exjade systemic exposure. Avoid the concomitant use of potent UGT inducers (e.g., rifampicin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, ritonavir) with Exjade. If you must administer Exjade with 1 of these agents, consider increasing the initial dose of Exjade by 50%, and monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical responses for further dose modification [see Dosage and Administration (2.1, 2.2), Drug Interactions (7.5)] . Bile Acid Sequestrants Concomitant use of bile acid sequestrants decreases Exjade systemic exposure. Avoid the concomitant use of bile acid sequestrants (e.g., cholestyramine, colesevelam, colestipol) with Exjade. If you must administer Exjade with 1 of these agents, consider increasing the initial dose of Exjade by 50%, and monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical responses for further dose modification [see Dosage and Administration (2.1, 2.2), Drug Interactions (7.6)] . ( 2.1 ) NTDT Syndromes: Initial dose for patients with eGFR greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is 7 mg per kg (calculated to nearest whole tablet once daily. ( 2.1 , 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 ) 2.1 Transfusional Iron Overload Deferasirox tablets therapy should only be considered when a patient has evidence of chronic transfusional iron overload. Prior to starting therapy, or increasing dose, evaluate: Serum ferritin level Baseline renal function Obtain serum creatinine in duplicate (due to variations in measurements) Calculate the estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). During Therapy : Monitor serum ferritin monthly and adjust the dose of deferasirox tablets, if necessary, every 3 to 6 months based on serum ferritin trends. Adjust dose based on serum ferritin levels If the serum ferritin falls below 1,000 mcg/L at 2 consecutive visits, consider dose reduction, especially if the deferasirox tablets dose is greater than 17.5 mg/kg/day [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. If the serum ferritin falls below 500 mcg/L, interrupt deferasirox tablets therapy and continue monthly monitoring. Prior to starting therapy, obtain: • LIC by liver biopsy or by an FDA-cleared or approved method for identifying patients for treatment with deferasirox therapy • Serum ferritin level on at least 2 measurements 1-month apart [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] • Baseline renal function: o Obtain serum creatinine in duplicate (due to variations in measurements) o Calculate the estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). o Obtain urinalyses and serum electrolytes to evaluate renal tubular function [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. • Serum transaminases and bilirubin [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] • Baseline auditory and ophthalmic examinations [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.10 )] Initiating Therapy: • The recommended initial dose of deferasirox tablets for patients with eGFR greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is 7 mg per kg body weight orally once daily. • If the baseline LIC is greater than 15 mg Fe/g dw, consider increasing the dose to 14 mg/kg/day after 4 weeks. During Therapy: • Monitor serum ferritin monthly. • Monitor LIC every 6 months. • After 6 months of therapy, if the LIC remains greater than 7 mg Fe/g dw, increase the dose of deferasirox to a maximum of 14 mg/kg/day. • If after 6 months of therapy, the LIC is 3 to 7 mg Fe/g dw, continue treatment with deferasirox at no more than 7 mg/kg/day. • When the LIC is less than 3 mg Fe/g dw, interrupt treatment with deferasirox and continue to monitor the LIC. • Monitor blood counts, liver function, renal function and ferritin monthly [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.2 , 5.4 )]. • Increase monitoring frequency for pediatric patients who have acute illness, which can cause volume depletion, such as vomiting, diarrhea, or prolonged decreased oral intake. Consider dose interruption until oral intake and volume status are normal [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 , 2.5 ), Warnings and Precautions (5.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Deferasirox Tablets for oral suspension Deferasirox Tablets Transfusion-Dependent Iron Overload Starting Dose 20 mg/kg/day 14 mg/kg/day Titration Increments 5 to 10 mg/kg 3.5 to 7 mg/kg Maximum Dose 40 mg/kg/day 28 mg/kg/day Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes Starting Dose 10 mg/kg/day 7 mg/kg/day Titration Increments 5 to 10 mg/kg 3.5 to 7 mg/kg Maximum Dose 20 mg/kg/day 14 mg/kg/day 2.4 Use in Patients with Baseline Hepatic or Renal Impairment Patients with Baseline Hepatic Impairment Mild (Child-Pugh A) Hepatic Impairment: No dose adjustment is necessary. 2.5 Dose Modifications for Decrease in Renal Function While on Deferasirox Tablets Deferasirox tablets is contraindicated in patients with eGFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Contraindications (4) ] For decreases in renal function while receiving deferasirox tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ], modify the dose as follows: Transfusional Iron Overload Adults : If the serum creatinine increases by 33% or more above the average baseline measurement, repeat the serum creatinine within 1 week, and if still elevated by 33% or more, reduce the dose by 7 mg per kg. Pediatric Patients (ages 2 years to 17 years): Reduce the dose by 7 mg per kg if eGFR decreases by greater than 33% below the average baseline measurement and repeat eGFR within 1 week Interrupt deferasirox tablets for acute illnesses, which can cause volume depletion, such as vomiting, diarrhea, or prolonged decreased oral intake, and monitor more frequently. Non-Transfusion-Dependent Thalassemia Syndromes Adults: • If the serum creatinine increases by 33% or more above the average baseline measurement, repeat the serum creatinine within 1 week, and if still elevated by 33% or more, interrupt therapy if the dose is 3.5 mg per kg, or reduce by 50% if the dose is 7 or 14 mg per kg. Pediatric Patients (ages 10 years to 17 years): • Reduce the dose by 3.5 mg per kg if eGFR decreases by greater than 33% below the average baseline measurement and repeat the eGFR within 1 week. • Increase monitoring frequency for pediatric patients who have acute illnesses, which can cause volume depletion, such as vomiting, diarrhea, or prolonged decreased oral intake. Avoid use of other nephrotoxic drugs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. • In the setting of decreased renal function, evaluate the risk benefit profile of continued deferasirox tablets use. If signs of renal tubular or glomerular injury occur in the presence of other risk factors such as volume depletion, reduce or interrupt deferasirox tablets to prevent severe and irreversible renal injury [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. If you must administer deferasirox tablets with a Strong UGT inducer, consider increasing the initial dose by 50%, and monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical responses for further dose modification [ see Dosage and Administration (2.1, 2.2) , Drug Interactions (7.5)]. If you must administer deferasirox tablets with a bile acid sequestrant, consider increasing the initial dose by 50%, and monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical responses for further dose modification [ see Dosage and Administration (2.1, 2.2) , Drug Interactions (7.6)]. (2.2) 2.1 Transfusional Iron Overload Deferasirox tablets therapy should only be considered when a patient has evidence of chronic transfusional iron overload. Serum transaminases and bilirubin [see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Baseline auditory and ophthalmic examinations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Initiating Therapy: The recommended initial dose of deferasirox tablets for patients 2 years of age and older with eGFR greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is 20 mg per kg body weight orally, once daily. Adjust dose based on serum ferritin levels If the serum ferritin falls below 1,000 mcg/L at 2 consecutive visits, consider dose reduction, especially if the dose is greater than 25 mg/kg/day [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. If the serum ferritin falls below 500 mcg/L, interrupt deferasirox tablets to minimize the risk of overchelation, and continue monthly monitoring [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. Serum transaminases and bilirubin [see Dosage and Administration (2.4), Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Baseline auditory and ophthalmic examinations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Initiating Therapy: The recommended initial dose of deferasirox tablets for patients with eGFR greater than 60 mL/min/1.73 m 2 is 10 mg per kg body weight orally once daily. During Therapy: Monitor serum ferritin monthly to assess the patient’s response to therapy and to minimize the risk of overchelation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. Take deferasirox tablets once daily on an empty stomach at least 30 minutes before food, preferably at the same time each day. Do not take deferasirox tablets with aluminum-containing antacid products [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] . Patients with Baseline Renal Impairment Do not use deferasirox tablets in adult or pediatric patients with eGFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Dosage and Administration (2.5), Contraindications (4)]. 2.5 Dose Modifications for Decreases in Renal Function While on Deferasirox Tablets Deferasirox tablets are contraindicated in patients with eGFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Contraindications (4)]. For decreases in renal function while receiving deferasirox tablets [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)], modify the dose as follows: Transfusional Iron Overload Adults: If the serum creatinine increases by 33% or more above the average baseline measurement, repeat the serum creatinine within 1 week, and if still elevated by 33% or more, reduce the dose by 10 mg per kg. Pediatric Patients (ages 2 years to 17 years): Reduce the dose by 10 mg/kg/day if eGFR decreases by greater than 33% below the average baseline measurement and repeat the eGFR within 1 week. If signs of renal tubular or glomerular injury occur in the presence of other risk factors such as volume depletion, reduce or interrupt deferasirox tablets to prevent severe and irreversible renal injury [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Pediatric Patients (ages 10 years to 17 years): Reduce the dose by 5 mg/kg/day if eGFR decreases by greater than 33% below the average baseline measurement and repeat the eGFR within 1 week. In the setting of decreased renal function, evaluate the risk benefit profile of continued deferasirox tablet use. Use the minimum effective deferasirox tablet dose and monitor renal function more frequently, by evaluating tubular and glomerular function. If signs of renal tubular or glomerular injury occur in the presence of other risk factors such as volume depletion, reduce or interrupt deferasirox tablet to prevent severe and irreversible renal injury [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . 2.6 Dose Modifications Based on Concomitant Medications UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGT) Inducers Concomitant use of UGT inducers decreases deferasirox tablets systemic exposure. Avoid the concomitant use of potent UGT inducers (e.g., rifampicin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, ritonavir) with deferasirox tablets. If you must administer deferasirox tablets with 1 of these agents, consider increasing the initial dose of deferasirox tablets by 50%, and monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical responses for further dose modification [see Dosage and Administration (2.1, 2.2), Drug Interactions (7.5)] . Bile Acid Sequestrants Concomitant use of bile acid sequestrants decreases deferasirox systemic exposure. Avoid the concomitant use of bile acid sequestrants (e.g., cholestyramine, colesevelam, colestipol) with deferasirox tablets. If you must administer deferasirox tablets with 1 of these agents, consider increasing the initial dose of deferasirox tablets by 50%, and monitor serum ferritin levels and clinical responses for further dose modification [see Dosage and Administration (2.1, 2.2), Drug Interactions (7.6)] .
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Deferasirox is contraindicated in patients with: Estimated GFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]; Poor performance status [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1, 5.3 )]; High-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (this patient population was not studied and is not expected to benefit from chelation therapy); Advanced malignancies [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1, 5.3 )]; Platelet counts less than 50 x 10 9 /L [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 , 5.4 )]; Known hypersensitivity to deferasirox or any component of deferasirox [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ), Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Estimated GFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 . ( 4 ) Patients with poor performance status. ( 4 ) Patients with high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). ( 4 ) Patients with advanced malignancies. ( 4 ) Patients with platelet counts less than 50 x 10 9 /L. ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to deferasirox or any component of deferasirox. ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Deferasirox is contraindicated in patients with: Estimated GFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Dosage and Administration (2.5), Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]; Poor performance status [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.3)] ; High-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (this patient population was not studied and is not expected to benefit from chelation therapy) ; Advanced malignancies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.3)] ; Platelet counts less than 50 x 10 9 /L [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3, 5.4)] ; Known hypersensitivity to deferasirox or any component of deferasirox [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7), Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. ( 4 ) • Patients with poor performance status. ( 4 ) • Patients with high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). ( 4 ) • Patients with advanced malignancies. ( 4 ) • Patients with platelet counts less than 50 x 109/L. ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to deferasirox or any component of deferasirox tablets. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Deferasirox is contraindicated in patients with: Estimated GFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] ; Poor performance status [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.3)] ; High-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (this patient population was not studied and is not expected to benefit from chelation therapy) ; Advanced malignancies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 , 5.3) ] ; Platelet counts less than 50 x 10 9 /L [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3 , 5.4) ] ; Known hypersensitivity to deferasirox or any component of deferasirox [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) , Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . ( 4) Patients with poor performance status. (4) Patients with high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). (4) Patients with advanced malignancies. (4) Patients with platelet counts less than 50 x 10 9 /L. (4) Known hypersensitivity to deferasirox or any component of deferasirox. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Deferasirox tablets for oral suspension are contraindicated in patients with: Estimated GFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Dosage and Administration (2.5), Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]; Poor performance status; [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.3)] High-risk myelodysplastic syndromes; (this patient population was not studied and is not expected to benefit from chelation therapy) Advanced malignancies. [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.3)] Platelet counts less than 50 x 10 9 /L [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3, 5.4)] Known hypersensitivity to deferasirox or any component of deferasirox tablets for oral suspension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7), Adverse Reactions (6.2)] . • Estimated GFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 . (4) • Patients with poor performance status. (4) • Patients with high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). (4) • Patients with advanced malignancies. (4) • Patients with platelet counts less than 50 x 10 9 /L. (4) • Known hypersensitivity to deferasirox or any component of deferasirox tablets for oral suspension. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Deferasirox is contraindicated in patients with: Estimated GFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]; Poor performance status; [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.3 )] ; High-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (this patient population was not studied and is not expected to benefit from chelation therapy); Advanced malignancies [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.3 )]; Platelet counts less than 50 x 109/L [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 , 5.4 )]; Known hypersensitivity to deferasirox or any component of deferasirox [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7 ), Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )]. ( 4 ) Patients with high-risk myelodyplastic syndrome (MDS). ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to deferasirox or any component of deferasirox oral granules. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Deferasirox granules are contraindicated in patients with: Estimated GFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) , Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] ; Poor performance status [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.3 )] ; High-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (this patient population was not studied and is not expected to benefit from chelation therapy) ; Advanced malignancies [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.3 )] ; Platelet counts less than 50 x 10 9 /L [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 , 5.4 )] ; Known hypersensitivity to deferasirox or any component of deferasirox granules [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) , Adverse Reactions (6.2) ] . ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to deferasirox or any component of deferasirox granules. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Exjade is contraindicated in patients with: Estimated GFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Dosage and Administration (2.5), Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] ; Poor performance status; [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.3)] High-risk myelodysplastic syndromes; (this patient population was not studied and is not expected to benefit from chelation therapy) Advanced malignancies. [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.3)] Platelet counts less than 50 x 10 9 /L [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3, 5.4) Known hypersensitivity to deferasirox or any component of Exjade [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7), Adverse Reactions (6.2)] . ( 4 ) Known hypersensitivity to deferasirox or any component of Exjade. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Deferasirox is contraindicated in patients with: Estimated GFR less than 40 mL/min/1.73 m 2 [see Dosage and Administration (2.5), Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]; Poor performance status; [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.3)] High-risk myelodysplastic syndromes; (this patient population was not studied and is not expected to benefit from chelation therapy) Advanced malignancies. [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.3)] Platelet counts less than 50 x 10 9 /L [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3, 5.4)] Known hypersensitivity to deferasirox or any component of deferasirox [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7), Adverse Reactions (6.2)].
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Do not take deferasirox with aluminum-containing antacid preparations.( 7.1 ) Deferasirox increases the exposure of the repaglinide. Consider repaglinide dose reduction and monitor blood glucose levels. ( 7.3 ) Avoid the use of deferasirox with theophylline as theophylline levels could be increased. ( 7.4 ) Deferasirox increases exposure of busulfan. Monitor plasma concentrations of busulfan when coadministered with deferasirox to allow dose adjustment of busulfan, as needed. ( 7.7 ) 7.1Aluminum-Containing Antacid Preparations The concomitant administration of deferasirox and aluminum-containing antacid preparations has not been formally studied. Although deferasirox has a lower affinity for aluminum than for iron, do not take deferasirox with aluminum-containing antacid preparations. 7.2Agents Metabolized by CYP3A4 Deferasirox may induce CYP3A4 resulting in a decrease in CYP3A4 substrate concentration when these drugs are coadministered. Closely monitor patients for signs of reduced effectiveness when deferasirox is administered with drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 (e.g., alfentanil, aprepitant, budesonide, buspirone, conivaptan, cyclosporine, darifenacin, darunavir, dasatinib, dihydroergotamine, dronedarone, eletriptan, eplerenone, ergotamine, everolimus, felodipine, fentanyl, hormonal contraceptive agents, indinavir, fluticasone, lopinavir, lovastatin, lurasidone, maraviroc, midazolam, nisoldipine, pimozide, quetiapine, quinidine, saquinavir, sildenafil, simvastatin, sirolimus, tacrolimus, tolvaptan, tipranavir, triazolam, ticagrelor, and vardenafil) [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.3Agents Metabolized by CYP2C8 Deferasirox inhibits CYP2C8 resulting in an increase in CYP2C8 substrate (e.g., repaglinide and paclitaxel) concentration when these drugs are coadministered. If deferasirox and repaglinide are used concomitantly, consider decreasing the dose of repaglinide and perform careful monitoring of blood glucose levels. Closely monitor patients for signs of exposure related toxicity when deferasirox is coadministered with other CYP2C8 substrates [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.4Agents Metabolized by CYP1A2 Deferasirox inhibits CYP1A2 resulting in an increase in CYP1A2 substrate (e.g., alosetron, caffeine, duloxetine, melatonin, ramelteon, tacrine, theophylline, tizanidine) concentration when these drugs are coadministered. An increase in theophylline plasma concentrations could lead to clinically significant theophylline induced CNS or other adverse reactions. Avoid the concomitant use of theophylline or other CYP1A2 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index (e.g., tizanidine) with deferasirox. Monitor theophylline concentrations and consider theophylline dose modification if you must coadminister theophylline with deferasirox. Closely monitor patients for signs of exposure related toxicity when Deferasirox is coadministered with other drugs metabolized by CYP1A2 [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.5Agents Inducing UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) Metabolism Deferasirox is a substrate of UGT1A1 and to a lesser extent UGT1A3. The concomitant use of deferasirox with strong UGT inducers (e.g., rifampicin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, ritonavir) may result in a decrease in deferasirox efficacy due to a possible decrease in deferasirox concentration. Avoid the concomitant use of strong UGT inducers with deferasirox. Consider increasing the initial dose of deferasirox if you must coadminister these agents together [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.6Bile Acid Sequestrants Avoid the concomitant use of bile acid sequestrants (e.g., cholestyramine, colesevelam, colestipol) with deferasirox due to a possible decrease in deferasirox concentration. If you must coadminister these agents together, consider increasing the initial dose of deferasirox [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.7 Busulfan Increased exposure of busulfan was observed with concomitant use with deferasirox. Monitor plasma concentrations of busulfan when coadministered with deferasirox to allow dose adjustment of busulfan as needed [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Do not take deferasirox with aluminum-containing antacid preparations. ( 7.1 ) Deferasirox increases the exposure of repaglinide. ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Aluminum-Containing Antacid Preparations The concomitant administration of deferasirox and aluminum-containing antacid preparations has not been formally studied. 7.2 Agents Metabolized by CYP3A4 Deferasirox may induce CYP3A4 resulting in a decrease in CYP3A4 substrate concentration when these drugs are coadministered. Closely monitor patients for signs of reduced effectiveness when deferasirox is administered with drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 (e.g., alfentanil, aprepitant, budesonide, buspirone, conivaptan, cyclosporine, darifenacin, darunavir, dasatinib, dihydroergotamine, dronedarone, eletriptan, eplerenone, ergotamine, everolimus, felodipine, fentanyl, hormonal contraceptive agents, indinavir, fluticasone, lopinavir, lovastatin, lurasidone, maraviroc, midazolam, nisoldipine, pimozide, quetiapine, quinidine, saquinavir, sildenafil, simvastatin, sirolimus, tacrolimus, tolvaptan, tipranavir, triazolam, ticagrelor, and vardenafil) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.3 Agents Metabolized by CYP2C8 Deferasirox inhibits CYP2C8 resulting in an increase in CYP2C8 substrate (e.g., repaglinide and paclitaxel) concentration when these drugs are coadministered. Closely monitor patients for signs of exposure related toxicity when deferasirox is coadministered with other CYP2C8 substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.4 Agents Metabolized by CYP1A2 Deferasirox inhibits CYP1A2 resulting in an increase in CYP1A2 substrate (e.g., alosetron, caffeine, duloxetine, melatonin, ramelteon, tacrine, theophylline, tizanidine) concentration when these drugs are coadministered. Closely monitor patients for signs of exposure related toxicity when deferasirox is coadministered with other drugs metabolized by CYP1A2 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.5 Agents Inducing UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) Metabolism Deferasirox is a substrate of UGT1A1 and to a lesser extent UGT1A3. Consider increasing the initial dose of deferasirox if you must coadminister these agents together [see Dosage and Administration (2.5), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.6 Bile Acid Sequestrants Avoid the concomitant use of bile acid sequestrants (e.g., cholestyramine, colesevelam, colestipol) with deferasirox due to a possible decrease in deferasirox concentration. If you must coadminister these agents together, consider increasing the initial dose of deferasirox [see Dosage and Administration (2.5), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Monitor plasma concentrations of busulfan when coadministered with deferasirox to allow dose adjustment of busulfan as needed [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Closely monitor patients for signs of reduced effectiveness when deferasirox is administered with drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 (e.g., alfentanil, aprepitant, budesonide, buspirone, conivaptan, cyclosporine, darifenacin, darunavir, dasatinib, dihydroergotamine, dronedarone, eletriptan, eplerenone, ergotamine, everolimus, felodipine, fentanyl, hormonal contraceptive agents, indinavir, fluticasone, lopinavir, lovastatin, lurasidone, maraviroc, midazolam, nisoldipine, pimozide, quetiapine, quinidine, saquinavir, sildenafil, simvastatin, sirolimus, tacrolimus, tolvaptan, tipranavir, triazolam, ticagrelor, and vardenafil) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Closely monitor patients for signs of exposure related toxicity when deferasirox is coadministered with other CYP2C8 substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Closely monitor patients for signs of exposure related toxicity when deferasirox is coadministered with other drugs metabolized by CYP1A2 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Consider increasing the initial dose of deferasirox if you must coadminister these agents together [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . If you must coadminister these agents together, consider increasing the initial dose of deferasirox [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Monitor plasma concentrations of busulfan when coadministered with deferasirox to allow dose adjustment of busulfan as needed [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Do not take deferasirox tablets for oral suspension with aluminum-containing antacid preparations. (7.1) Deferasirox tablets for oral suspension increases the exposure of the CYP2C8 substrate repaglinide. (7.3) Avoid the use of deferasirox tablets for oral suspension with CYP1A2 substrate theophylline. (7.4) Deferasirox increases exposure of busulfan. Monitor plasma concentrations of busulfan when coadministered with deferasirox to allow dose adjustment of busulfan as needed. (7.7) 7.1 Aluminum-Containing Antacid Preparations The concomitant administration of deferasirox tablets for oral suspension and aluminum-containing antacid preparations has not been formally studied. Although deferasirox has a lower affinity for aluminum than for iron, do not take deferasirox tablets for oral suspension with aluminum-containing antacid preparations due to the mechanism of action of deferasirox tablets for oral suspension. Closely monitor patients for signs of reduced effectiveness when deferasirox is administered with drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 (e.g., alfentanil, aprepitant, budesonide, buspirone, conivaptan, cyclosporine, darifenacin, darunavir, dasatinib, dihydroergotamine, dronedarone, eletriptan, eplerenone, ergotamine, everolimus, felodipine, fentanyl, hormonal contraceptive agents, indinavir, fluticasone, lopinavir, lovastatin, lurasidone, maraviroc, midazolam, nisoldipine, pimozide, quetiapine, quinidine, saquinavir, sildenafil, simvastatin, sirolimus, tacrolimus, tolvaptan, tipranavir, triazolam, ticagrelor, and vardenafil) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . If deferasirox tablets for oral suspension and repaglinide are used concomitantly, consider decreasing the dose of repaglinide and perform careful monitoring of blood glucose levels. Closely monitor patients for signs of exposure related toxicity when deferasirox tablets for oral suspension are coadministered with other CYP2C8 substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. An increase in theophylline plasma concentrations could lead to clinically significant theophylline-induced CNS or other adverse reactions. Avoid the concomitant use of theophylline or other CYP1A2 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index (e.g., tizanidine) with deferasirox tablets for oral suspension. Monitor theophylline concentrations and consider theophylline dose modification if you must coadminister theophylline with deferasirox tablets for oral suspension. Closely monitor patients for signs of exposure related toxicity when deferasirox tablets for oral suspension are coadministered with other drugs metabolized by CYP1A2 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . The concomitant use of deferasirox tablets for oral suspension with potent UGT inducers (e.g., rifampicin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, ritonavir) may result in a decrease in deferasirox tablets for oral suspension efficacy due to a possible decrease in deferasirox concentration. Avoid the concomitant use of potent UGT inducers with deferasirox tablets for oral suspension. Consider increasing the initial dose of deferasirox tablets for oral suspension if you must coadminister these agents together [see Dosage and Administration (2.5), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7.6 Bile Acid Sequestrants Avoid the concomitant use of bile acid sequestrants (e.g., cholestyramine, colesevelam, colestipol) with deferasirox tablets for oral suspension due to a possible decrease in deferasirox concentration. If you must coadminister these agents together, consider increasing the initial dose of deferasirox tablets for oral suspension [see Dosage and Administration (2.5), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Closely monitor patients for signs of reduced effectiveness when deferasirox is administered with drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 (e.g., alfentanil, aprepitant, budesonide, buspirone, conivaptan, cyclosporine, darifenacin, darunavir, dasatinib, dihydroergotamine, dronedarone, eletriptan, eplerenone, ergotamine, everolimus, felodipine, fentanyl, hormonal contraceptive agents, indinavir, fluticasone, lopinavir, lovastatin, lurasidone, maraviroc, midazolam, nisoldipine, pimozide, quetiapine, quinidine, saquinavir, sildenafil, simvastatin, sirolimus, tacrolimus, tolvaptan, tipranavir, triazolam, ticagrelor, and vardenafil) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Closely monitor patients for signs of exposure related toxicity when deferasirox is coadministered with other CYP2C8 substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Closely monitor patients for signs of exposure related toxicity when deferasirox is coadministered with other drugs metabolized by CYP1A2 [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. If you must coadminister these agents together, consider increasing the initial dose of deferasirox [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.5 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Monitor plasma concentrations of busulfan when coadministered with deferasirox to allow dose adjustment of busulfan as needed [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Do not take deferasirox granules with aluminum-containing antacid preparations. ( 7.3 ) Avoid the use of deferasirox granules with theophylline as theophylline levels could be increased. Although deferasirox has a lower affinity for aluminum than for iron, do not take deferasirox granules with aluminum-containing antacid preparations. Closely monitor patients for signs of reduced effectiveness when deferasirox is administered with drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 (e.g., alfentanil, aprepitant, budesonide, buspirone, conivaptan, cyclosporine, darifenacin, darunavir, dasatinib, dihydroergotamine, dronedarone, eletriptan, eplerenone, ergotamine, everolimus, felodipine, fentanyl, hormonal contraceptive agents, indinavir, fluticasone, lopinavir, lovastatin, lurasidone, maraviroc, midazolam, nisoldipine, pimozide, quetiapine, quinidine, saquinavir, sildenafil, simvastatin, sirolimus, tacrolimus, tolvaptan, tipranavir, triazolam, ticagrelor, and vardenafil) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . If deferasirox granules and repaglinide are used concomitantly, consider decreasing the dose of repaglinide and perform careful monitoring of blood glucose levels. Closely monitor patients for signs of exposure related toxicity when deferasirox granules are coadministered with other CYP2C8 substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Avoid the concomitant use of theophylline or other CYP1A2 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index (e.g., tizanidine) with deferasirox granules. Monitor theophylline concentrations and consider theophylline dose modification if you must coadminister theophylline with deferasirox granules. Closely monitor patients for signs of exposure related toxicity when deferasirox granules are coadministered with other drugs metabolized by CYP1A2 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Avoid the concomitant use of strong UGT inducers with deferasirox granules. 7.6 Bile Acid Sequestrants Avoid the concomitant use of bile acid sequestrants (e.g., cholestyramine, colesevelam, colestipol) with deferasirox granules due to a possible decrease in deferasirox concentration. Monitor plasma concentrations of busulfan when coadministered with deferasirox to allow dose adjustment of busulfan as needed [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Do not take Exjade with aluminum-containing antacid preparations. ( 7.1 ) Exjade increases the exposure of the CYP2C8 substrate repaglinide. ( 7.3 ) Avoid the use of Exjade with CYP1A2 substrate theophylline. ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Aluminum-Containing Antacid Preparations The concomitant administration of Exjade and aluminum-containing antacid preparations has not been formally studied. Although deferasirox has a lower affinity for aluminum than for iron, do not take Exjade with aluminum-containing antacid preparations due to the mechanism of action of Exjade. If Exjade and repaglinide are used concomitantly, consider decreasing the dose of repaglinide and perform careful monitoring of blood glucose levels. Closely monitor patients for signs of exposure related toxicity when Exjade is coadministered with other CYP2C8 substrates [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Avoid the concomitant use of theophylline or other CYP1A2 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index (e.g., tizanidine) with Exjade. Monitor theophylline concentrations and consider theophylline dose modification if you must coadminister theophylline with Exjade. Closely monitor patients for signs of exposure related toxicity when Exjade is coadministered with other drugs metabolized by CYP1A2 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. The concomitant use of Exjade with potent UGT inducers (e.g., rifampicin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, ritonavir) may result in a decrease in Exjade efficacy due to a possible decrease in deferasirox concentration. Avoid the concomitant use of potent UGT inducers with Exjade. Consider increasing the initial dose of Exjade if you must coadminister these agents together [see Dosage and Administration (2.5), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7.6 Bile Acid Sequestrants Avoid the concomitant use of bile acid sequestrants (e.g., cholestyramine, colesevelam, colestipol) with Exjade due to a possible decrease in deferasirox concentration. If you must coadminister these agents together, consider increasing the initial dose of Exjade [see Dosage and Administration (2.5), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . ( 7.1 ) Deferasirox increases the exposure of the CYP2C8 substrate repaglinide. ( 7.3 ) Avoid the use of deferasirox with CYP1A2 substrate theophylline. Although deferasirox has a lower affinity for aluminum than for iron, do not take deferasirox with aluminum-containing antacid preparations due to the mechanism of action of deferasirox. Closely monitor patients for signs of exposure related toxicity when deferasirox is coadministered with other drugs metabolized by CYP1A2 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . The concomitant use of deferasirox with potent UGT inducers (e.g., rifampicin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, ritonavir) may result in a decrease in deferasirox efficacy due to a possible decrease in deferasirox concentration. Avoid the concomitant use of potent UGT inducers with deferasirox. Consider increasing the initial dose of deferasirox if you must coadminister these agents together [see Dosage and Administration (2.5), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . If you must coadminister these agents together, consider increasing the initial dose of deferasirox [see Dosage and Administration (2.5), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] .

=== DEXTROMETHORPHAN HYDROBROMIDE AND GUAIFENESIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purposes Cough suppressant Expectorant Active ingredients (in each 10 mL) Purposes Dextromethorphan HBr 20 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 200 mg Expectorant Active ingredients (in each 30 mL dose cup) Purpose Acetaminophen 650 mg Pain reliever/fever reducer Dextromethorphan HBr 20 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 400 mg Expectorant Active ingredients (in each capsule) Purpose Dextromethorphan hydrobromide 10 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 200 mg Expectorant Active ingredients (in each 20 mL) Purposes Dextromethorphan HBr 20 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 400 mg Expectorant Cough suppressant Expectorant
Indications: Uses temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to drain bronchial tubes Uses • temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold • helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to drain bronchial tubes Uses temporarily relieves common cold/flu symptoms: ▪ cough ▪ sore throat ▪ headache ▪ minor aches and pains ▪ fever ▪ helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to get rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive Uses temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to make coughs more productive Uses helps loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive temporarily relieves: cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants the intensity of coughing the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep Uses temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold helps to loosen phlegm (mucus) and thin bronchial secretions to drain bronchial tubes
Dosage: Directions do not take more than 6 doses in any 24-hour period measure only with dosing cup provided keep dosing cup with product ml = milliliter this adult product is not intended for use in children under 12 years of age age dose adults and children 12 years and over 20 ml every 4 hours children under 12 years do not use Directions • do not take more than 6 doses in any 24-hour period • measure only with dosing cup provided • keep dosing cup with product • ml = milliliter age dose children under 4 years do not use children 4 to under 6 years 5 ml every 4 hours children 6 to under 12 years 10 ml every 4 hours adults and children 12 years and over 20 ml every 4 hours Directions do not take more than 6 doses in any 24-hour period measure only with dosing cup provided. Do not use any other dosing device. keep dosing cup with product mL = milliliter this adult product is not intended for use in children under 12 years of age adults and children 12 years and over: 10 mL every 4 hours children under 12 years: do not use Directions ▪ do not take more than directed ▪ do not take more than 6 doses in any 24-hours period ▪ measure only with dosing cup provided ▪ dose as follows or as directed by a doctor adults & children 12 years & older 30 mL per dose every 4 hours children under 12 years of age do not use Directions do not exceed recommended dose adults and children 12 years and over: 1 or 2 capsules every 4 hours, not more than 12 capsules in 24 hours children under 12 years of age: ask a doctor Directions do not take more than 6 doses in any 24-hour period measure only with dosing cup provided do not use dosing cup with other products dose as follows or as directed by a doctor adults and children 12 years of age and over: 20 mL in dosing cup provided every 4 hours children under 12 years of age: do not use Directions take evey 4 hours do not take more than 6 doses in any 24-hour period measure only with dosing cup provided keep dosing cup with product Age Dose Adults and children 12 years and over 2 teaspoonful (10 mL) Children 6 to under 12 years 1 teaspoonful (5 mL) Children under 6 years Ask a doctor
Warnings: Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI, ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product. Ask a doctor before use if you have cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days, comes back, or is accompanied by fever, rash, or persistent headache. These could be signs of a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1-800-222-1222. Ask a doctor before use if you have • cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) • cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days, comes back, or is accompanied by fever, rash, or persistent headache. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. Ask a doctor before use if you have cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis or emphysema Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days, comes back, or is accompanied by fever, rash, or persistent headache. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Warnings Liver warning This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take ▪ more than 6 doses in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount for this product ▪ taken with other drugs containing acetaminophen ▪ 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy Alert : Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: ▪ Skin reddening ▪ Blisters ▪ Rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away Sore throat warning If sore throat is severe, persists for more than 2 days, is accompanied or followed by fever, headache, rash, nausea, or vomiting, consult a doctor promptly. Do not use ▪ with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen, ask a doctor or pharmacist. ▪ if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. ▪ If you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product r any of its ingredients ▪ In children under 12 years of age Ask a doctor before use if you have ▪ liver disease ▪ cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) ▪ persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis or emphysema Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are ▪ taking the blood thinning drug warfarin When using this product Do not use more than as directed Stop use and ask a doctor if ▪ nervousness, dizziness, or sleeplessness occur ▪ pain or cough gets worse or lasts more than 7 days ▪ fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days ▪ redness or swelling is present ▪ new symptoms occur ▪ cough comes back or occurs with rash or headache that lasts. If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a health professional before use. if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have cough that occurs with excessive phlegm (mucus) persistent or chronic cough as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days, reoccurs, or occurs with fever, rash or persistent headache. Abuse of this product can lead to serious injury. Ask a doctor before use if you have persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis, or emphysema cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days, comes back, or occurs with fever, rash, or headache that lasts. Warnings Warnings Do not use Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (certain drugs for depression, psychiatric, or emotional conditions, or Parkinson's disease), or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug. Ask a doctor before use if you have cough that occurs with too much phlegm (mucus) cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking, asthma, chronic bronchitis or emphysema Stop use and ask a doctor if Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days, comes back, or is accompanied by fever, rash, or persistent headache. If pregnant or breast-feeding ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children.

=== IPRATROPIUM BROMIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate inhalation solution is indicated for the treatment of bronchospasm associated with COPD in patients requiring more than one bronchodilator. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ipratropium bromide nasal solution, 0.03% is indicated for the symptomatic relief of rhinorrhea associated with allergic and nonallergic perennial rhinitis in adults and children age 6 years and older. Ipratropium bromide 0.03% does not relieve nasal congestion, sneezing, or postnasal drip associated with allergic or nonallergic perennial rhinitis. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ATROVENT HFA Inhalation Aerosol is indicated as a bronchodilator for maintenance treatment of bronchospasm associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), including chronic bronchitis and emphysema. ATROVENT HFA is an anticholinergic indicated for the maintenance treatment of bronchospasm associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), including chronic bronchitis and emphysema ( 1 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ipratropium bromide inhalation solution administered either alone or with other bronchodilators, especially beta adrenergics, is indicated as a bronchodilator for maintenance treatment of bronchospasm associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, including chronic bronchitis and emphysema. INDICATIONS AND USAGE: Ipratropium Bromide Nasal Solution 0.03% (Nasal Spray) is indicated for the symptomatic relief of rhinorrhea associated with allergic and nonallergic perennial rhinitis in adults and children age 6 years and older. Ipratropium Bromide Nasal Solution 0.03% (Nasal Spray) does not relieve nasal congestion, sneezing, or postnasal drip associated with allergic or nonallergic perennial rhinitis.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate inhalation solution is one 3 mL vial administered 4 times per day via nebulization with up to 2 additional 3 mL doses allowed per day, if needed. Safety and efficacy of additional doses or increased frequency of administration of ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate inhalation solution beyond these guidelines has not been studied and the safety and efficacy of extra doses of albuterol sulfate or ipratropium bromide in addition to the recommended doses of ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate inhalation solution have not been studied. The use of ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate inhalation solution can be continued as medically indicated to control recurring bouts of bronchospasm. If a previously effective regimen fails to provide the usual relief, medical advice should be sought immediately, as this is often a sign of worsening COPD, which would require reassessment of therapy. A Pari-LC-Plus™ nebulizer (with face mask or mouthpiece) connected to a PRONEB™ compressor was used to deliver ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate inhalation solution to each patient in one U.S. clinical study. The safety and efficacy of ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate inhalation solution delivered by other nebulizers and compressors have not been established. Ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate inhalation solution should be administered via jet nebulizer connected to an air compressor with an adequate air flow, equipped with a mouthpiece or suitable face mask. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of ipratropium bromide solution, 0.03% is two sprays (42 mcg) per nostril two or three times daily (total dose 168 to 252 mcg/day) for the symptomatic relief of rhinorrhea associated with allergic and nonallergic perennial rhinitis in adults and children age 6 years and older. Optimum dosage varies with the response of the individual patient. Initial pump priming requires seven sprays of the pump. If used regularly as recommended, no further priming is required. If not used for more than 24 hours, the pump will require two sprays, or if not used for more than seven days, the pump will require seven sprays to reprime. Avoid spraying into eyes. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual starting dosage of ATROVENT HFA is two inhalations four times a day. Patients may take additional inhalations as required; however, the total number of inhalations should not exceed 12 in 24 hours. ATROVENT HFA is a solution aerosol that does not require shaking. However, as with any other metered-dose inhaler, some coordination is required between actuating the canister and inhaling the medication. Patients should "prime" or actuate ATROVENT HFA before using for the first time by releasing 2 test sprays into the air away from the face. In cases where the inhaler has not been used for more than 3 days, prime the inhaler again by releasing 2 test sprays into the air away from the face. Patients should avoid spraying ATROVENT HFA into their eyes. Each inhaler provides sufficient medication for 200 actuations. The inhaler should be discarded after the labeled number of actuations has been used. The amount of medication in each actuation cannot be assured after this point, even though the canister is not completely empty. Patients should be instructed on the proper use of their inhaler [ see Patient Counseling Information (17) ]. For oral inhalation only Two inhalations four times a day, not to exceed 12 inhalations in 24 hours ( 2 ) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual dosage of ipratropium bromide inhalation solution is 500 mcg (1 Unit-Dose Vial) administered three to four times a day by oral nebulization, with doses 6 to 8 hours apart. Ipratropium bromide inhalation solution Unit-Dose Vials contain 500 mcg ipratropium bromide anhydrous in 2.5 mL normal saline. Ipratropium bromide inhalation solution can be mixed in the nebulizer with albuterol or metaproterenol if used within one hour. Drug stability and safety of ipratropium bromide inhalation solution when mixed with other drugs in a nebulizer have not been established. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: The recommended dose of Ipratropium Bromide Nasal Solution 0.03% (Nasal Spray) is two sprays (42 mcg) per nostril two or three times daily (total dose 168 to 252 mcg/day) for the symptomatic relief of rhinorrhea associated with allergic and nonallergic perennial rhinitis in adults and children age 6 years and older. Avoid spraying into eyes . Ipratropium bromide inhalation solution unit-dose vials contain 500 mcg ipratropium bromide, USP anhydrous in 2.5 mL normal saline.
Warnings: WARNINGS Paradoxical Bronchospasm : In the clinical study of ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate, paradoxical bronchospasm was not observed. However, paradoxical bronchospasm has been observed with both inhaled ipratropium bromide and albuterol products and can be life-threatening. If this occurs, ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted. Do Not Exceed Recommended Dose : Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled products containing sympathomimetic amines and with the home use of nebulizers. Cardiovascular Effect : Ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate, like other beta adrenergic agonists, can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by pulse rate, blood pressure, and/or symptoms. Although such effects are uncommon for ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate at recommended doses, if they occur, the drug may need to be discontinued. In addition, beta agonists have been reported to produce ECG changes, such as flattening of the T-wave, prolongation of the QTc interval, and ST segment depression. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Therefore, ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate, like other sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency, cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions : Immediate hypersensitivity reactions to albuterol and/or ipratropium bromide may occur after the administration of ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate as demonstrated by rare cases of urticaria, angioedema, rash, pruritus, oropharyngeal edema, bronchospasm, and anaphylaxis. WARNINGS Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of ipratropium bromide, as demonstrated by urticaria, angioedema, rash, bronchospasm, anaphylaxis, and oropharyngeal edema. If such a reaction occurs, therapy with ipratropium bromide should be stopped at once and alternative treatment should be considered. WARNINGS Paradoxical Bronchospasm In the clinical study of Ipratropium Bromide and Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Solution, paradoxical bronchospasm was not observed. If this occurs, Ipratropium Bromide and Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Solution should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted. Do Not Exceed Recommended Dose Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled products containing sympathomimetic amines and with the home use of nebulizers. Cardiovascular Effect Ipratropium Bromide and Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Solution, like other beta adrenergic agonists, can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by pulse rate, blood pressure, and/or symptoms. Although such effects are uncommon for Ipratropium Bromide and Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Solution at recommended doses, if they occur, the drug may need to be discontinued. Therefore, Ipratropium Bromide and Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Solution, like other sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency, cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Immediate hypersensitivity reactions to albuterol and/or ipratropium bromide may occur after the administration of Ipratropium Bromide and Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Solution as demonstrated by rare cases of urticaria, angioedema, rash, pruritus, oropharyngeal edema, bronchospasm, and anaphylaxis. WARNINGS The use of ipratropium bromide inhalation solution as a single agent for the relief of bronchospasm in acute COPD exacerbation has not been adequately studied. Drugs with faster onset of action may be preferable as initial therapy in this situation. Combination of ipratropium bromide inhalation solution and beta agonists has not been shown to be more effective than either drug alone in reversing the bronchospasm associated with acute COPD exacerbation. Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of ipratropium bromide, as demonstrated by rare cases of urticaria, angioedema, rash, bronchospasm and oropharyngeal edema. WARNINGS: Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of ipratropium bromide, as demonstrated by urticaria, angioedema, rash, bronchospasm, anaphylaxis, and oropharyngeal edema. If such a reaction occurs, therapy with Ipratropium Bromide Nasal Solution 0.03% (Nasal Spray) should be stopped at once and alternative treatment should be considered. Combination of ipratropium bromide and beta agonists has not been shown to be more effective than either drug alone in reversing the bronchospasm associated with acute COPD exacerbation.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate inhalation solution is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components, or to atropine and its derivatives. CONTRAINDICATIONS Ipratropium bromide nasal solution, 0.03% is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to atropine or its derivatives, or to any of the other ingredients. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ATROVENT HFA is contraindicated in the following conditions [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ]. Hypersensitivity to ipratropium bromide or other ATROVENT HFA components Hypersensitivity to atropine or any of its derivatives Hypersensitivity to ipratropium bromide or other ATROVENT HFA components ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity to atropine or any of its derivatives ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Ipratropium bromide is contraindicated in known or suspected cases of hypersensitivity to ipratropium bromide, or to atropine and its derivatives. CONTRAINDICATIONS: Ipratropium Bromide Nasal Solution 0.03% (Nasal Spray) is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to atropine or its derivatives, or to any of the other ingredients.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Anticholinergic agents : Although ipratropium bromide is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation, there is some potential for an additive interaction with concomitantly used anticholinergic medications. Caution is, therefore, advised in the coadministration of ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate with other drugs having anticholinergic properties. ß-adrenergic agents : Caution is advised in the coadministration of ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate and other sympathomimetic agents due to the increased risk of adverse cardiovascular effects. ß-receptor blocking agents : These agents and albuterol sulfate inhibit the effect of each other. β-receptor blocking agents should be used with caution in patients with hyperreactive airways, and if used, relatively selective β1 selective agents are recommended. Diuretics : The electrocardiogram (ECG) changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of non-potassium sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by β-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the β-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of β-agonist-containing drugs, such as ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate, with non-potassium sparing diuretics. Monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants : Ipratropium bromide and albuterol sulfate should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents because the action of albuterol sulfate on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS ATROVENT HFA has been used concomitantly with other drugs, including sympathomimetic bronchodilators, methylxanthines, oral and inhaled steroids commonly used in the treatment of COPD. With the exception of albuterol, there are no formal studies fully evaluating the interaction effects of ATROVENT HFA and these drugs with respect to safety and effectiveness. Anticholinergics: May interact additively with concomitantly used anticholinergic medications. Avoid administration of ATROVENT HFA with other anticholinergic-containing drugs ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Anticholinergic Agents There is potential for an additive interaction with concomitantly used anticholinergic medications. Therefore, avoid coadministration of ATROVENT HFA with other anticholinergic-containing drugs as this may lead to an increase in anticholinergic adverse effects [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4 , 5.5) ]. Drug Interactions Anticholinergic agents Although ipratropium bromide is minimally absorbed into the systemic circulation, there is some potential for an additive interaction with concomitantly used anticholinergic medications. Caution is, therefore, advised in the co-administration of Ipratropium Bromide and Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Solution with other drugs having anticholinergic properties. β-adrenergic agents Caution is advised in the co-administration of Ipratropium Bromide and Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Solution and other sympathomimetic agents due to the increased risk of adverse cardiovascular effects. β-receptor blocking agents These agents and albuterol sulfate inhibit the effect of each other. β-receptor blocking agents should be used with caution in patients with hyperreactive airways, and if used, relatively selective β 1 selective agents are recommended. Diuretics The electrocardiogram (ECG) changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of non-potassium sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by β-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the β-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the co-administration of β-agonist-containing drugs, such as Ipratropium Bromide and Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Solution, with non-potassium sparing diuretics. Monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants Ipratropium Bromide and Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Solution should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents because the action of albuterol sulfate on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated. Drug Interactions: No controlled clinical trials were conducted to investigate potential drug-drug interactions. There is potential for an additive interaction with other concomitantly administered medications with anticholinergic properties, including ipratropium bromide for oral inhalation. Drug Interactions Ipratropium bromide has been shown to be a safe and effective bronchodilator when used in conjunction with beta adrenergic bronchodilators. Ipratropium bromide has also been used with other pulmonary medications, including methylxanthines and corticosteroids, without adverse drug interactions. ß-adrenergic agents Caution is advised in the co-administration of Ipratropium Bromide and Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Solution and other sympathomimetic agents due to the increased risk of adverse cardiovascular effects. ß-receptor blocking agents These agents and albuterol sulfate inhibit the effect of each other.

=== NEOSTIGMINE METHYLSULFATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, a cholinesterase inhibitor, is indicated for reversal of the effects of nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA) after surgery. Neostigmine Methylsulfate, a cholinesterase inhibitor, is indicated for reversal of the effects of nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA) after surgery ( 1 ). 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Neostigmine methylsulfate injection is a cholinesterase inhibitor indicated for the reversal of the effects of non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents after surgery. Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, a cholinesterase inhibitor, is indicated for the reversal of the effects of non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBAs) after surgery. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Neostigmine methylsulfate injection is a cholinesterase inhibitor indicated for the reversal of the effects of non‑depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents after surgery. (1) 1. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP is a cholinesterase inhibitor indicated for the reversal of the effects of non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents after surgery. Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP, a cholinesterase inhibitor, is indicated for the reversal of the effects of non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBAs) after surgery. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection is a cholinesterase inhibitor indicated for the reversal of the effects of non­ depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents after surgery. Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, a cholinesterase inhibitor, is indicated for the reversal of the effects of non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBAs) after surgery (1). INDICATIONS AND USAGE Neostigmine methylsulfate injection is a cholinesterase inhibitor indicated for the reversal of the effects of non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents after surgery. Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, a cholinesterase inhibitor, is indicated for the reversal of the effects of non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBAs) after surgery ( 1 ). 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Neostigmine methylsulfate injection is a cholinesterase inhibitor indicated for the reversal of the effects of non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents after surgery. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection is a cholinesterase inhibitor indicated for the reversal of the effects of non­-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents after surgery.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage Should be administered by trained healthcare providers ( 2.1 ) Recommend use of a peripheral nerve stimulator to determine whether neostigmine methylsulfate should be administered and to monitor recovery from neuromuscular blockade ( 2.1 ). Recommended dosage range is 0.03 mg/kg to 0.07mg/kg for reversing nondepolarizing neuromuscular block when administered with an anticholinergic agent (atropine or glycopyrrolate) ( 2.2 , 2.3 , 2.4 ) For reversal of NMBAs with shorter half-lives, when first twitch response is substantially greater than 10% of baseline, or when a second twitch is present: 0.03 mg/kg by intravenous route ( 2.2 ) For reversal of NMBAs with longer half-lives or when first twitch response is close to 10% of baseline: 0.07 mg/kg by intravenous route ( 2.2 ) Maximum total dosage is 0.07 mg/kg or up to a total of 5 mg (whichever is less) ( 2.2 ) An anticholinergic agent, e.g., atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate, should be administered prior to or concomitantly with neostigmine methylsulfate ( 2.4 ) Dose of Anticholinergic Agent (atropine or glycopyrrolate) Administer atropine sulfate (~15 mcg/kg) or glycopyrrolate (~10 mcg/kg) intravenously either several minutes before or concomitantly with neostigmine methylsulfate (using separate syringes) ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Neostigmine should be administered by trained healthcare providers familiar with the use, actions, characteristics, and complications of neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA) and neuromuscular block reversal agents. Prior to Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection administration and up until complete recovery of normal ventilation, the patient should be well ventilated and a patent airway maintained. Use a peripheral nerve stimulator capable of delivering a train-of-four (TOF) stimulus to evaluate the extent of recovery of neuromuscular function, and to determine the time of the first dose and the need for additional doses of Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection. Prior to the administration of Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, there must be a twitch response to the first stimulus in the TOF of at least 10% of its baseline level (i.e., the response prior to NMBA administration). Dose selection should be based on the extent of spontaneous recovery at time of injection, half-life of the neuromuscular blocking agent (NMBA) to be reversed, and need for rapid NMBA reversal. Patients should continue to be monitored for adequacy of reversal of the effect of NMBAs for a period of time that would assure full recovery based on the patient’s medical condition and the pharmacokinetics of neostigmine and the NMBA used. Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection is administered by intravenous bolus injection. Additional, carefully adjusted bolus doses are administered according to the patient’s response. An anticholinergic agent (e.g., atropine or glycopyrrolate) should be administered prior to or concomitantly with Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 ) ]. TOF monitoring alone should not be relied upon to determine the adequacy of reversal of neuromuscular blockade. Satisfactory recovery should be judged by the patient's ability to maintain a patent airway, adequacy of ventilation, and skeletal muscle tone. 2.2 Recommended Dosage in Adults The recommended dose range of Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection is 0.03 mg/kg to 0.07 mg/kg administered as an intravenous bolus. A dose less than 0.04 mg/kg is recommended for reversal of the effect of NMBAs with shorter half-lives (e.g., rocuronium), or when the first twitch response to the TOF stimulus is substantially greater than 10% of baseline, or when a second twitch is present. A dose of 0.07 mg/kg is recommended for the reversal of the effect of NMBAs with longer half-lives (e.g., vecuronium or pancuronium), or when first twitch response is not substantially greater than 10% of baseline, or if there is need for more rapid recovery. Additional doses may be required. The recommended maximum total dose is 0.07 mg/kg or up to a total of 5 mg, whichever is less. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients including Neonates Adult guidelines should be followed when Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection is administered to pediatric patients. Pediatric patients require Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection doses similar to those for adult patients. 2.4 Concomitant or Pre-Administration of Anticholinergic Agents An anticholinergic agent (e.g., atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate) should be administered intravenously several minutes prior to or with Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection administration using separate syringes. For bradycardic patients, the anticholinergic agent should be administered prior to Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection. 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Neostigmine should be administered by trained healthcare providers familiar with the use, actions, characteristics, and complications of neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA) and neuromuscular block reversal agents. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION 2.1. Important Dosage Information Neostigmine methylsulfate injection should be administered by trained healthcare providers familiar with the use, actions, characteristics, and complications of neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA) and neuromuscular block reversal agents. Doses of neostigmine methylsulfate injection should be individualized, and a peripheral nerve stimulator should be used to determine the time of initiation of neostigmine methylsulfate injection and should be used to determine the need for additional doses. Neostigmine methylsulfate injection is for intravenous use only and should be injected slowly over a period of at least 1 minute. The neostigmine methylsulfate injection dosage is weight-based [see Dosage and Administration (2.2)]. Prior to neostigmine methylsulfate injection administration and until complete recovery of normal ventilation, the patient should be well ventilated and a patent airway maintained. Satisfactory recovery should be judged by adequacy of skeletal muscle tone and respiratory measurements in addition to the response to peripheral nerve stimulation. An anticholinergic agent, e.g., atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate, should be administered prior to or concomitantly with neostigmine methylsulfate injection [see Dosage and Administration (2.4)] . 2.2. Dosage in Adults a. Peripheral nerve stimulation devices capable of delivering a train-of-four (TOF) stimulus are essential to effectively using neostigmine methylsulfate injection. b. There must be a twitch response to the first stimulus in the TOF of at least 10% of its baseline level, i.e., the response prior to NMBA administration, prior to the administration of neostigmine methylsulfate injection. c. Prior to administration, visually inspect neostigmine methylsulfate injection for particulate matter and discoloration. d. Neostigmine methylsulfate injection should be injected slowly by intravenous route over a period of at least 1 minute. e. A 0.03 mg/kg to 0.07 mg/kg dose of neostigmine methylsulfate will generally achieve a TOF twitch ratio of 90% (TOF 0.9 ) within 10 to 20 minutes of administration. Dose selection should be based on the extent of spontaneous recovery that has occurred at the time of administration, the half-life of the NMBA being reversed, and whether there is a need to rapidly reverse the NMBA. • The 0.03 mg/kg dose is recommended for: • Reversal of NMBAs with shorter half-lives, e.g., rocuronium, or • When the first twitch response to the TOF stimulus is substantially greater than 10% of baseline or when a second twitch is present. • The 0.07 mg/kg dose is recommended for • NMBAs with longer half-lives, e.g., vecuronium and pancuronium, or • When the first twitch response is relatively weak, i.e., not substantially greater than 10% of baseline or • There is need for more rapid recovery. f. TOF monitoring should continue to be used to evaluate the extent of recovery of neuromuscular function and the possible need for an additional dose of neostigmine methylsulfate injection. g. TOF monitoring alone should not be relied upon to determine the adequacy of reversal of neuromuscular blockade as related to a patient’s ability to adequately ventilate and maintain a patent airway following tracheal extubation. h. Patients should continue to be monitored for adequacy of reversal from NMBAs for a period of time that would assure full recovery based on the patient’s medical condition and the pharmacokinetics of neostigmine and the NMBA used. i. 2.3.Dosage in Pediatric Patients, including Neonates Adult guidelines should be followed when neostigmine methylsulfate injection is administered to pediatric patients. Pediatric patients require neostigmine Methylsulfate doses similar to those for adult patients. 2.4.Anticholinergic (Atropine or Glycopyrrolate) Administration An anticholinergic agent, e.g., atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate, should be administered prior to or concomitantly with neostigmine methylsulfate injection. The anticholinergic agent should be administered intravenously using a separate syringe. In the presence of bradycardia, it is recommended that the anticholinergic agent be administered prior to neostigmine methylsulfate injection. Should be administered by trained healthcare providers (2.1) Peripheral nerve stimulator and monitoring for twitch responses should be used to determine when neostigmine methylsulfate injection should be initiated and if additional doses are needed (2.2) For reversal of NMBAs with shorter half-lives, when first twitch response is substantially greater than 10% of baseline, or when a second twitch is present: 0.03 mg /kg by intravenous route (2.2) For reversal of NMBAs with longer half-lives or when first twitch response is close to 10% of baseline: 0.07 mg /kg by intravenous route (2.2) Maximum total dosage is 0.07 mg/kg or up to a total of 5 mg (whichever is less) (2.2) An anticholinergic agent, e.g., atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate, should be administered prior to or concomitantly with neostigmine methylsulfate injection (2.4) An anticholinergic agent (e.g., atropine or glycopyrrolate) should be administered prior to or concomitantly with Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 ), Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5 )]. Satisfactory recovery should be judged by the patient’s ability to maintain a patent airway, adequacy of ventilation, and skeletal muscle tone. 2.3 Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients, including Neonates Adult guidelines should be followed when Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection is administered to pediatric patients. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Should be administered by trained healthcare providers. (2.1) Peripheral nerve stimulator and monitoring for twitch responses should be used to determine when neostigmine methylsulfate injection should be initiated and if additional doses are needed. (2.2) For reversal of NMBAs with shorter half-lives, when first twitch response is substantially greater than 10% of baseline, or when a second twitch is present: 0.03 mg/kg by intravenous route . (2.2) For reversal of NMBAs with longer half-lives or when first twitch response is close to 10% of baseline: 0 .07 mg/kg by intravenous route . (2.2) Maximum total dosage is 0.07 mg/kg or up to a total of 5 mg (whichever is less). (2.2) An anticholinergic agent, e.g., atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate, should be administered prior to or concomitantly with neostigmine methylsulfate injection. (2.4) 2.1 Important Dosage Information Neostigmine methylsulfate injection should be administered by trained healthcare providers familiar with the use, actions, characteristics, and complications of neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA) and neuromuscular block reversal agents. The neostigmine methylsulfate injection dosage is weight-based. [se e Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. An anticholinergic agent, e.g., atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate, should be administered prior to or concomitantly with neostigmine methylsulfate injection. [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] 2.2 Dosage in Adults a. d.Neostigmine methylsulfate injection should be injected slowly by intravenous route over a period of at least 1 minute. A 0.03 mg/kg to 0.07 mg/kg dose of neostigmine methylsulfate injection will generally achieve a TOF twitch ratio of 90% (TOF 0.9 ) within 10 to 20 minutes of administration. • The 0.03 mg/kg dose is recommended for: I. Reversal of NMBAs with shorter half‐lives, e.g., rocuronium, or ii. When the first twitch response to the TOF stimulus is substantially greater than 10% of baseline or when a second twitch is present. • The 0.07 mg/kg dose is recommended for iii. NMBAs with longer half‐lives, e.g., vecuronium and pancuronium, or iv. When the first twitch response is relatively weak, i.e., not substantially greater than 10% of baseline or v. There is need for more rapid recovery. 2.3 Dosage in Pediatric Patients, including Neonates Adult guidelines should be followed when neostigmine methylsulfate injection is administered to pediatric patients. 2.4 Anticholinergic (Atropine or Glycopyrrolate) Administration An anticholinergic agent, e.g., atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate, should be administered prior to or concomitantly with neostigmine methylsulfate injection. 2. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Should be administered by trained healthcare providers ( 2.1 ) Peripheral nerve stimulator and monitoring for twitch responses should be used to determine when Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP should be initiated and if additional doses are needed ( 2.2 ) For reversal of NMBAs with shorter half-lives, when first twitch response is substantially greater than 10% of baseline, or when a second twitch is present: 0.03 mg/kg by intravenous route ( 2.2 ) For reversal of NMBAs with longer half-lives or when first twitch response is close to 10% of baseline: 0.07 mg/kg by intravenous route ( 2.2 ) Maximum total dosage is 0.07 mg/kg or up to a total of 5 mg (whichever is less) ( 2.2 ) An anticholinergic agent, e.g., atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate, should be administered prior to or concomitantly with Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP ( 2.4 ) 2.1. Important Dosage Information Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP should be administered by trained healthcare providers familiar with the use, actions, characteristics, and complications of neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA) and neuromuscular block reversal agents. Doses of Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP should be individualized, and a peripheral nerve stimulator should be used to determine the time of initiation of Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP and should be used to determine the need for additional doses. Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP is for intravenous use only and should be injected slowly over a period of at least 1 minute. The Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP dosage is weight-based [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )] . Prior to Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP administration and until complete recovery of normal ventilation, the patient should be well ventilated and a patent airway maintained. An anticholinergic agent, e.g., atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate, should be administered prior to or concomitantly with Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )]. Peripheral nerve stimulation devices capable of delivering a train-of-four (TOF) stimulus are essential to effectively using Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP. There must be a twitch response to the first stimulus in the TOF of at least 10% of its baseline level, i.e., the response prior to NMBA administration, prior to the administration of Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP. Prior to administration, visually inspect Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP for particulate matter and discoloration. Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP should be injected slowly by intravenous route over a period of at least 1 minute. A 0.03 mg/kg to 0.07 mg/kg dose of Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP will generally achieve a TOF twitch ratio of 90% (TOF 0.9 ) within 10 to 20 minutes of administration. The 0.03 mg/kg dose is recommended for: - Reversal of NMBAs with shorter half-lives, e.g., rocuronium, or - When the first twitch response to the TOF stimulus is substantially greater than 10% of baseline or when a second twitch is present. The 0.07 mg/kg dose is recommended for: - NMBAs with longer half-lives, e.g., vecuronium and pancuronium, or - When the first twitch response is relatively weak, i.e., not substantially greater than 10% of baseline or - There is need for more rapid recovery. TOF monitoring should continue to be used to evaluate the extent of recovery of neuromuscular function and the possible need for an additional dose of Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP. 2.3. Dosage in Pediatric Patients, Including Neonates Adult guidelines should be followed when Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP is administered to pediatric patients. Pediatric patients require Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP doses similar to those for adult patients. 2.4. Anticholinergic (Atropine or Glycopyrrolate) Administration An anticholinergic agent, e.g., atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate, should be administered prior to or concomitantly with Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP. In the presence of bradycardia, it is recommended that the anticholinergic agent be administered prior to Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION • Should be administered by trained healthcare providers (2.1) • Peripheral nerve stimulator and monitoring for twitch responses should be used to determine when Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection should be initiated and if additional doses are needed (2.2) - For reversal of NMBAs with shorter half-lives, when first twitch response is substantially greater than 10% of baseline, or when a second twitch is present: 0.03 mg/kg by intravenous route (2.2) - For reversal of NMBAs with longer half-lives or when first twitch response is close to 10% of baseline: 0.07 mg/kg by intravenous route (2.2) • Maximum total dosage is 0.07 mg/kg or up to a total of 5 mg (whichever is less) (2.2) • An anticholinergic agent, e.g., atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate, should be administered prior to or concomitantly with Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection (2.4) 2.1. An anticholinergic agent, e.g., atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate, should be administered prior to or concomitantly with Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection [see Dosage and Administration (2.4)] 2.2. A 0.03 mg/kg to 0.07 mg/kg dose of Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection will generally achieve a TOF twitch ratio of 90% (TOF 0.9) within 10 to 20 minutes of administration. Reversal of NMBAs with shorter half-lives, e.g., rocuronium, or ii. NMBAs with longer half-lives, e.g., vecuronium and pancuronium, or iv. Dosage in Pediatric Patients, including Neonates Adult guidelines should be followed when Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection is administered to pediatric patients. Anticholinergic (Atropine or Glycopyrrolate) Administration An anticholinergic agent, e.g., atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate, should be administered prior to or concomitantly with Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Should be administered by trained healthcare providers ( 2.1 ) Peripheral nerve stimulator and monitoring for twitch responses should be used to determine when neostigmine methylsulfate injection should be initiated and if additional doses are needed ( 2.2 ) For reversal of NMBAs with shorter half-lives, when first twitch response is substantially greater than 10% of baseline, or when a second twitch is present: 0.03 mg/kg by intravenous route ( 2.2 ) For reversal of NMBAs with longer half-lives or when first twitch response is close to 10% of baseline: 0.07 mg /kg by intravenous route ( 2.2 ) Maximum total dosage is 0.07 mg/kg or up to a total of 5 mg (whichever is less) ( 2.2 ) An anticholinergic agent, e.g., atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate, should be administered prior to or concomitantly with neostigmine methylsulfate injection ( 2.4 ) 2.1. The neostigmine methylsulfate injection dosage is weight-based [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) ]. An anticholinergic agent, e.g., atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate, should be administered prior to or concomitantly with neostigmine methylsulfate injection [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ] 2.2. Dosage in Adults Peripheral nerve stimulation devices capable of delivering a train-of-four (TOF) stimulus are essential to effectively using neostigmine methylsulfate injection. The 0.03 mg/kg dose is recommended for: Reversal of NMBAs with shorter half-lives, e.g., rocuronium, or When the first twitch response to the TOF stimulus is substantially greater than 10% of baseline or when a second twitch is present. The 0.07 mg/kg dose is recommended for NMBAs with longer half-lives, e.g., vecuronium and pancuronium, or When the first twitch response is relatively weak, i.e., not substantially greater than 10% of baseline or There is need for more rapid recovery. TOF monitoring alone should not be relied upon to determine the adequacy of reversal of neuromuscular blockade as related to a patient's ability to adequately ventilate and maintain a patent airway following tracheal extubation. Patients should continue to be monitored for adequacy of reversal from NMBAs for a period of time that would assure full recovery based on the patient's medical condition and the pharmacokinetics of neostigmine and the NMBA used. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Should be administered by trained healthcare providers ( 2.1 ) Peripheral nerve stimulator and monitoring for twitch responses should be used to determine when neostigmine methylsulfate injection should be initiated and if additional doses are needed ( 2.2 ) − For reversal of NMBAs with shorter half-lives, when first twitch response is substantially greater than 10% of baseline, or when a second twitch is present: 0.03 mg/kg by intravenous route ( 2.2 ) − For reversal of NMBAs with longer half-lives or when first twitch response is close to 10% of baseline: 0.07 mg/kg by intravenous route ( 2.2 ) Maximum total dosage is 0.07 mg/kg or up to a total of 5 mg (whichever is less) ( 2.2 ) An anticholinergic agent, e.g., atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate, should be administered prior to or concomitantly with neostigmine methylsulfate injection ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Important Dosage Information Neostigmine methylsulfate injection should be administered by trained healthcare providers familiar with the use, actions, characteristics, and complications of neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA) and neuromuscular block reversal agents. The neostigmine methylsulfate injection dosage is weight-based [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )] . An anticholinergic agent, e.g., atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate, should be administered prior to or concomitantly with neostigmine methylsulfate injection [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.4 )] . 2.2 Dosage in Adults Peripheral nerve stimulation devices capable of delivering a train-of-four (TOF) stimulus are essential to effectively using neostigmine methylsulfate injection. The 0.07 mg/kg dose is recommended for: NMBAs with longer half-lives, e.g., vecuronium and pancuronium, or When the first twitch response is relatively weak, i.e., not substantially greater than 10% of baseline or There is need for more rapid recovery. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Should be administered by trained healthcare providers ( 2.1 ) Peripheral nerve stimulator and monitoring for twitch responses should be used to determine when Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP should be initiated and if additional doses are needed ( 2.2 ) For reversal of NMBAs with shorter half-lives, when first twitch response is substantially greater than 10% of baseline, or when a second twitch is present: 0.03 mg/kg by intravenous route ( 2.2 ) For reversal of NMBAs with longer half-lives or when first twitch response is close to 10% of baseline: 0.07 mg/kg by intravenous route ( 2.2 ) Maximum total dosage is 0.07 mg/kg or up to a total of 5 mg (whichever is less) ( 2.2 ) An anticholinergic agent, e.g., atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate, should be administered prior to or concomitantly with Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Important Dosage Information Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP should be administered by trained healthcare providers familiar with the use, actions, characteristics, and complications of neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA) and neuromuscular block reversal agents. 2.2 Dosage in Adults a. 2.3 Dosage in Pediatric Patients, Including Neonates Adult guidelines should be followed when Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP is administered to pediatric patients. 2.4 Anticholinergic (Atropine or Glycopyrrolate) Administration An anticholinergic agent, e.g., atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate, should be administered prior to or concomitantly with Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Should be administered by trained healthcare providers ( 2.1 ) • Peripheral nerve stimulator and monitoring for twitch responses should be used to determine when Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection should be initiated and if additional doses are needed ( 2.2 ) • For reversal of NMBAs with shorter half-lives, when first twitch response is substantially greater than 10% of baseline, or when a second twitch is present: 0.03 mg/kg by intravenous route ( 2.2 ) • For reversal of NMBAs with longer half-lives or when first twitch response is close to 10% of baseline: 0.07 mg/kg by intravenous route ( 2.2 ) • Maximum total dosage is 0.07 mg/kg or up to a total of 5 mg (whichever is less) ( 2.2 ) • An anticholinergic agent, e.g., atropine sulfate or glycopyrrolate, should be administered prior to or concomitantly with Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection ( 2.4 ) 2.1 Important Dosage Information Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection should be administered by trained healthcare providers familiar with the use, actions, characteristics, and complications of neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA) and neuromuscular block reversal agents. The Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection dosage is weight-based [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.2 )]. • The 0.07 mg/kg dose is recommended for: • NMBAs with longer half-lives, e.g., vecuronium and pancuronium, or • When the first twitch response is relatively weak, i.e., not substantially greater than 10% of baseline or • There is need for more rapid recovery.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Neostigmine is contraindicated in patients with: known hypersensitivity to neostigmine methylsulfate (known hypersensitivity reactions have included urticaria, angioedema, erythema multiforme, generalized rash, facial swelling, peripheral edema, pyrexia, flushing, hypotension, bronchospasm, bradycardia and anaphylaxis). peritonitis or mechanical obstruction of the urinary or intestinal tracts. Hypersensitivity to neostigmine ( 4 ) Peritonitis or mechanical obstruction of urinary or intestinal tracts ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Neostigmine methylsulfate injection is contraindicated in patients with: known hypersensitivity to neostigmine methylsulfate (known hypersensitivity reactions have included urticaria, angioedema, erythema multiforme, generalized rash, facial swelling, peripheral edema, pyrexia, flushing, hypotension, bronchospasm, bradycardia and anaphylaxis). peritonitis or mechanical obstruction of the intestinal or urinary tract. Hypersensitivity to neostigmine (4) Peritonitis or mechanical obstruction of the intestinal or urinary tract (4) with peritonitis or mechanical obstruction of the intestinal or urinary tract. Hypersensitivity to neostigmine (4) Peritonitis or mechanical obstruction of the intestinal or urinary tract. (4) 4. CONTRAINDICATIONS Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP is contraindicated in patients with: known hypersensitivity to neostigmine methylsulfate (known hypersensitivity reactions have included urticaria, angioedema, erythema multiforme, generalized rash, facial swelling, peripheral edema, pyrexia, flushing, hypotension, bronchospasm, bradycardia and anaphylaxis). Hypersensitivity to neostigmine ( 4 ) Peritonitis or mechanical obstruction of the intestinal or urinary tract ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection is contraindicated in patients with: • known hypersensitivity to neostigmine methylsulfate (known hypersensitivity reactions have included urticaria, angioedema, erythema multiforme, generalized rash, facial swelling, peripheral edema, pyrexia, flushing, hypotension, bronchospasm, bradycardia and anaphylaxis). • with peritonitis or mechanical obstruction of the intestinal or urinary tract. • Hypersensitivity to neostigmine (4) • Peritonitis or mechanical obstruction of the intestinal or urinary tract (4) CONTRAINDICATIONS Neostigmine methylsulfate injection is contraindicated in patients with: known hypersensitivity to neostigmine methylsulfate (known hypersensitivity reactions have included urticaria, angioedema, erythema multiforme, generalized rash, facial swelling, peripheral edema, pyrexia, flushing, hypotension, bronchospasm, bradycardia and anaphylaxis). • peritonitis or mechanical obstruction of the intestinal or urinary tract. • Hypersensitivity to neostigmine ( 4 ) • Peritonitis or mechanical obstruction of the intestinal or urinary tract ( 4 )
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The pharmacokinetic interaction between neostigmine methylsulfate and other drugs has not been studied. Neostigmine methylsulfate is metabolized by microsomal enzymes in the liver. Closely monitor patients for a longer period of time when using Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection with other drugs which may alter the activity of metabolizing enzymes or transporters. 7.1 Depolarizing Muscle relaxants Use of neostigmine to reverse the effects of depolarizing muscle relaxants such as succinylcholine is not recommended, because it may prolong the phase-1 block. 7.2 Antibiotics Certain antibiotics, particularly neomycin, streptomycin and kanamycin have nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking action, and therefore, neostigmine dose adjustments may be required to reverse neuromuscular block in patients who have been taking these drugs. There was no effect on neostigmine action on rocuronium reversal by cefuroxime, metronidazole, cefuroxime or metronidazole. Use with caution when using Neostigmine methylsulfate injection with other drugs which may alter the activity of metabolizing enzymes or transporters. 7. DRUG INTERACTIONS The pharmacokinetic interaction between neostigmine methylsulfate and other drugs has not been studied. Use with caution when using Neostigmine Methylsulfate Injection, USP with other drugs which may alter the activity of metabolizing enzymes or transporters.

=== NITROFURANTOIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Nitrofurantoin is indicated in adults and pediatric patients 1 month of age and older for the treatment of urinary tract infections due to susceptible strains of Escherichia coli , Enterococcus species, Staphylococcus aureus , Klebsiella species and Enterobacter species. Limitations of Use Nitrofurantoin is not indicated for the treatment of pyelonephritis or perinephric abscesses [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of nitrofurantoin and other antibacterial drugs, nitrofurantoin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. When culture and susceptibility information are available, they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy. In the absence of such data, local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy. Nitrofurantoin is a nitrofuran antibacterial indicated in adults and pediatric patients 1 month of age and older for the treatment of urinary tract infections caused by susceptible bacteria. (1) Limitations of Use Nitrofurantoin is not indicated for the treatment of pyelonephritis or perinephric abscesses. (1) Usage To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of nitrofurantoin and other antibacterial drugs, nitrofurantoin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. (1) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals) is indicated only for the treatment of acute uncomplicated urinary tract infections (acute cystitis) caused by susceptible strains of Escherichia coli or Staphylococcus saprophyticus. Nitrofurantoin is not indicated for the treatment of pyelonephritis or perinephric abscesses. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals) and other antibacterial drugs, nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals) should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Nitrofurantoins lack the broader tissue distribution of other therapeutic agents approved for urinary tract infections. Consequently, many patients who are treated with nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals) are predisposed to persistence or reappearance of bacteriuria (see CLINICAL STUDIES ). Urine specimens for culture and susceptibility testing should be obtained before and after completion of therapy. If persistence or reappearance of bacteriuria occurs after treatment with nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals), other therapeutic agents with broader tissue distribution should be selected. In considering the use of nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals), lower eradication rates should be balanced against the increased potential for systemic toxicity and for the development of antimicrobial resistance when agents with broader tissue distribution are utilized. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals) are indicated only for the treatment of acute uncomplicated urinary tract infections (acute cystitis) caused by susceptible strains of Escherichia coli or Staphylococcus saprophyticus. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of nitrofurantoin capsule (monohydrate/macrocrystals) and other antibacterial drugs, nitrofurantoin capsule (monohydrate/macrocrystals) should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Consequently, many patients who are treated with nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals) are predisposed to persistence or reappearance of bacteriuria. (See CLINICAL STUDIES. ) Urine specimens for culture and susceptibility testing should be obtained before and after completion of therapy. If persistence or reappearance of bacteriuria occurs after treatment with nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals) other therapeutic agents with broader tissue distribution should be selected. In considering the use of nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals), lower eradication rates should be balanced against the increased potential for systemic toxicity and for the development of antimicrobial resistance when agents with broader tissue distribution are utilized. INDICATIONS AND USAGE: Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (macrocrystals) is specifically indicated for the treatment of urinary tract infections when due to susceptible strains of Escherichia coli, enterococci, staphylococcus aureus, and certain susceptible strains of Klebsiella and Enterobacter species. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (macrocrystals) and other antibacterial drugs, Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (macrocrystals) should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Consequently, many patients who are treated with Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (macrocrystals) are predisposed to persistence or reappearance of bacteriuria. If persistence or reappearance of bacteriuria occurs after treatment with Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (macrocrystals), other therapeutic agents with broader tissue distribution should be selected. In considering the use of Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (macrocrystals), lower eradication rates should be balanced against the increased potential for systemic toxicity and for the development of antimicrobial resistance when agents with broader tissue distribution are utilized. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nitrofurantoin capsules (macrocrystals) are specifically indicated for the treatment of urinary tract infections when due to susceptible strains of Escherichia coli , enterococci, Staphylococcus aureus , and certain susceptible strains of Klebsiella and Enterobacter species. To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of nitrofurantoin capsules (macrocrystals) and other antibacterial drugs, nitrofurantoin capsules (macrocrystals) should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Consequently, many patients who are treated with nitrofurantoin capsules (macrocrystals) are predisposed to persistence or reappearance of bacteriuria. If persistence or reappearance of bacteriuria occurs after treatment with nitrofurantoin capsules (macrocrystals), other therapeutic agents with broader tissue distribution should be selected. In considering the use of nitrofurantoin capsules (macrocrystals), lower eradication rates should be balanced against the increased potential for systemic toxicity and for the development of antimicrobial resistance when agents with broader tissue distribution are utilized. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nitrofurantoin capsules, USP (macrocrystals) is specifically indicated for the treatment of urinary tract infections when due to susceptible strains of Escherichia coli, enterococci , Staphylococcus aureus , and certain susceptible strains of Klebsiella and Enterobacter species. INDICATIONS AND USAGE: Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (monohydrate/macrocrystals) are indicated only for the treatment of acute uncomplicated urinary tract infections (acute cystitis) caused by susceptible strains of Escherichia coli or Staphylococcus saprophyticus . To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (monohydrate/macrocrystals) and other antibacterial drugs, Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (monohydrate/macrocrystals) should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria. Consequently, many patients who are treated with Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (monohydrate/macrocrystals) are predisposed to persistence or reappearance of bacteriuria. (see CLINICAL STUDIES ). If persistence or reappearance of bacteriuria occurs after treatment with Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (monohydrate/macrocrystals), other therapeutic agents with broader tissue distribution should be selected. In considering the use of Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (monohydrate/macrocrystals), lower eradication rates should be balanced against the increased potential for systemic toxicity and for the development of antimicrobial resistance when agents with broader tissue distribution are utilized. Nitrofurantoin capsules (macrocrystals) are specifically indicated for the treatment of urinary tract infections when due to susceptible strains of Escherichia coli, enterococci, Staphylococcus aureus, and certain susceptible strains of Klebsiella and Enterobacter species.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Adult Patients: 50 mg to 100 mg four times a day -the lower dosage level is recommended for uncomplicated urinary tract infections. (2.2) Pediatric Patients: 5 mg/kg to 7 mg/kg of body weight per 24 hours, given in four divided doses (contraindicated under one month of age). (2.3) 2.1 Recommended Dosage and Administration in Adult Patients The recommended dosage is 50 mg to 100 mg of nitrofurantoin four times a day. For long-term suppressive therapy in adults, a reduction of dosage to 50 mg to 100 mg at bedtime may be adequate . The benefits of long-term suppressive therapy should be balanced against the increased potential for systemic toxicity and for the development of antibacterial resistance [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.4, 5.6)]. Administer nitrofurantoin with food to improve drug absorption [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] and, in some patients, tolerance. 2.2 Recommended Dosage and Administration in Pediatric Patients (1 month of age and older) The recommended dosage of nitrofurantoin is 5 mg/kg to 7 mg/kg of body weight per 24 hours, given in four divided doses in pediatric patients aged 1 month and older. Administer nitrofurantoin with food to improve drug absorption [ s ee Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] and, in some patients, tolerance. Table 1 lists individual dosage volumes for nitrofurantoin oral suspension (25 mg/5 mL) based on body weight for pediatric patients. Table 1: Nitrofurantoin Oral Suspension Pediatric Dosing Table for Pediatric Patients 1 month of Age and Older Weight in Kilograms (kg) Pediatric Doses (mL), Frequency: Four times Daily 25 mg/5 mL oral suspension 4 kg or lower 1 Greater than 4 kg to 5 kg 1.4 Greater than 5 kg to 7 kg 1.8 Greater than 7 kg to 10 kg 2.5 Greater than 10 kg to 14 kg 3.5 Greater than 14 kg to 20 kg 5 Greater than 20 kg to 25 kg 7 Greater than 25 kg to 30 kg 8.5 Greater than 30 kg to 40 kg 10 40 kg or greater See Adult Dose To measure the correct pediatric doses, it is important to administer nitrofurantoin oral suspension with an appropriate size oral dosing syringe with graduations that align with the volume prescribed in Table 1 above. Continue therapy for one week or for at least 3 days after sterility of the urine is obtained. Continued infection indicates the need for reevaluation. For long-term suppressive therapy in pediatric patients, doses as low as 1 mg/kg per 24 hours, given in a single dose or in two divided doses, may be adequate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.4, 5.6)]. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals) should be taken with food. Adults and Pediatric Patients Over 12 Years One 100 mg capsule every 12 hours for seven days. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals), should be taken with food. Adults and Pediatric Patients Over 12 Years: One 100 mg capsule every 12 hours for Seven days. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Nitrofurantoin capsules, (macrocrystals) should be given with food to improve drug absorption and, in some patients, tolerance. Adults: 50 mg to 100 mg four times a day - the lower dosage level is recommended for uncomplicated urinary tract infections. Pediatric Patients: 5 mg/kg to 7 mg/kg of body weight per 24 hours, given in four divided doses (contraindicated under one month of age). Therapy should be continued for one week or for at least 3 days after sterility of the urine is obtained. For long-term suppressive therapy in adults, a reduction of dosage to 50 mg to 100 mg at bedtime may be adequate. For long-term suppressive therapy in pediatric patients, doses as low as 1 mg/kg per 24 hours, given in a single dose or in two divided doses, may be adequate. SEE WARNINGS SECTION REGARDING RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH LONG-TERM THERAPY. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Nitrofurantoin capsules (macrocrystals) should be given with food to improve drug absorption and, in some patients, tolerance. Adults: 50 to 100 mg four times a day - the lower dosage level is recommended for uncomplicated urinary tract infections. Pediatric Patients: 5 to 7 mg/kg of body weight per 24 hours, given in four divided doses (contraindicated under one month of age). For long-term suppressive therapy in adults, a reduction of dosage to 50 to 100 mg at bedtime may be adequate. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (monohydrate/macrocrystals) should be taken with food. Nitrofurantoin capsules, (macrocrystals) should be given with food to improve drug absorption and, in some patients, tolerance.
Warnings: WARNINGS Pulmonary Reactions ACUTE, SUBACUTE, OR CHRONIC PULMONARY REACTIONS HAVE BEEN OBSERVED IN PATIENTS TREATED WITH NITROFURANTOIN. IF THESE REACTIONS OCCUR, NITROFURANTOIN (MONOHYDRATE/MACROCRYSTALS) SHOULD BE DISCONTINUED AND APPROPRIATE MEASURES TAKEN. REPORTS HAVE CITED PULMONARY REACTIONS AS A CONTRIBUTING CAUSE OF DEATH. CHRONIC PULMONARY REACTIONS (DIFFUSE INTERSTITIAL PNEUMONITIS OR PULMONARY FIBROSIS, OR BOTH) CAN DEVELOP INSIDIOUSLY. THESE REACTIONS OCCUR RARELY AND GENERALLY IN PATIENTS RECEIVING THERAPY FOR SIX MONTHS OR LONGER. CLOSE MONITORING OF THE PULMONARY CONDITION OF PATIENTS RECEIVING LONG-TERM THERAPY IS WARRANTED AND REQUIRES THAT THE BENEFITS OF THERAPY BE WEIGHED AGAINST POTENTIAL RISKS (SEE RESPIRATORY REACTIONS). Hepatotoxicity Hepatic reactions, including hepatitis, cholestatic jaundice, chronic active hepatitis, and hepatic necrosis, occur rarely. Fatalities have been reported. The onset of chronic active hepatitis may be insidious, and patients should be monitored periodically for changes in biochemical tests that would indicate liver injury. If hepatitis occurs, the drug should be withdrawn immediately and appropriate measures should be taken. Neuropathy Peripheral neuropathy, which may become severe or irreversible, has occurred. Conditions such as renal impairment (creatinine clearance under 60 mL per minute or clinically significant elevated serum creatinine), anemia, diabetes mellitus, electrolyte imbalance, vitamin B deficiency, and debilitating disease may enhance the occurrence of peripheral neuropathy. Patients receiving long-term therapy should be monitored periodically for changes in renal function. Optic neuritis has been reported rarely in postmarketing experience with nitrofurantoin formulations. Hemolytic Anemia Cases of hemolytic anemia of the primaquine-sensitivity type have been induced by nitrofurantoin. Hemolysis appears to be linked to a glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency in the red blood cells of the affected patients. This deficiency is found in 10 percent of Blacks and a small percentage of ethnic groups of Mediterranean and Near-Eastern origin. Hemolysis is an indication for discontinuing nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals); hemolysis ceases when the drug is withdrawn. Clostridium difficile -Associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including nitrofurantoin, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C. difficile . C. difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD. Hypertoxin producing strains of C. difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality, as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use. Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents. If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C. difficile may need to be discontinued. Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibiotic treatment of C. difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated. WARNINGS Pulmonary reactions: ACUTE, SUBACUTE, OR CHRONIC PULMONARY REACTIONS HAVE BEEN OBSERVED IN PATIENTS TREATED WITH NITROFURANTOIN. IF THESE REACTIONS OCCUR, NITROFURANTOIN SHOULD BE DISCONTINUED AND APPROPRIATE MEASURES TAKEN. CLOSE MONITORING OF THE PULMONARY CONDITION OF PATIENTS RECEIVING LONG-TERM THERAPY IS WARRANTED AND REQUIRES THAT THE BENEFITS OF THERAPY BE WEIGHED AGAINST POTENTIAL RISKS. (SEE RESPIRATORY REACTIONS.) Hepatotoxicity: Hepatic reactions, including hepatitis, cholestatic jaundice, chronic active hepatitis, and hepatic necrosis, occur rarely. Neuropathy: Peripheral neuropathy, which may become severe or irreversible, has occurred. Hemolytic anemia: Cases of hemolytic anemia of the primaquine-sensitivity type have been induced by nitrofurantoin. Hemolysis appears to be linked to a glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase deficiency in the red blood cells of the affected patients. Hemolysis is an indication for discontinuing nitrofurantoin; hemolysis ceases when the drug is withdrawn. Clostridium difficile- associated diarrhea: Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including nitrofurantoin and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. IF THESE REACTIONS OCCUR, NITROFURANTOIN MACROCRYSTALS SHOULD BE DISCONTINUED AND APPROPRIATE MEASURES TAKEN. Hepatotoxicity: Hepatic reactions, including hepatitis, cholestatic jaundice, chronic active hepatitis, and hepatic necrosis, occur rarely. Hemolysis is an indication for discontinuing nitrofurantoin macrocrystals; hemolysis ceases when the drug is withdrawn. Clostridium difficile -associated diarrhea: Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including nitrofurantoin, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. IF THESE REACTIONS OCCUR, NITROFURANTOIN CAPSULES (MACROCRYSTALS) SHOULD BE DISCONTINUED AND APPROPRIATE MEASURES TAKEN. Hemolysis is an indication for discontinuing nitrofurantoin capsules (macrocrystals); hemolysis ceases when the drug is withdrawn. WARNINGS: Pulmonary reactions: ACUTE, SUBACUTE, OR CHRONIC PULMONARY REACTIONS HAVE BEEN OBSERVED IN PATIENTS TREATED WITH NITROFURANTOIN. IF THESE REACTIONS OCCUR, NITROFURANTOIN CAPSULES, USP (MONOHYDRATE/MACROCRYSTALS) SHOULD BE DISCONTINUED AND APPROPRIATE MEASURES TAKEN. Hemolysis is an indication for discontinuing Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (monohydrate/ macrocrystals); hemolysis ceases when the drug is withdrawn. Pulmonary reactions: ACUTE, SUBACUTE, OR CHRONIC PULMONARY REACTIONS HAVE BEEN OBSERVED IN PATIENTS TREATED WITH NITROFURANTOIN. Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea: Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including nitrofurantoin, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. difficile. difficile, and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Nitrofurantoin is contraindicated in: patients with known hypersensitivity to nitrofurantoin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. patients with a previous history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with nitrofurantoin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. patients who have anuria, oliguria, or significant impairment of renal function (creatinine clearance under 60 mL per minute or clinically significant elevated serum creatinine) due to an increased risk of toxicity resulting from impaired excretion of the drug [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. pregnant patients at term (38 weeks to 42 weeks gestation), during labor and delivery, or when the onset of labor is imminent and in pediatric patients younger than 1 month of age because of the possibility of hemolytic anemia due to immature erythrocyte enzyme systems (glutathione instability) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) and Use in Specific Populations (8.1 and 8.4)]. Known hypersensitivity to nitrofurantoin. (4) History of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with nitrofurantoin. (4) Patients who have anuria, oliguria, or significant impairment of renal function (creatinine clearance under 60 mL per minute or clinically significant elevated serum creatinine). (4) Pregnant patients at term (38 weeks to 42 weeks gestation), during labor and delivery, or when the onset of labor is imminent. (4) Pediatric Patients under one month of age. (4) CONTRAINDICATIONS Anuria, oliguria, or significant impairment of renal function (creatinine clearance under 60 mL per minute or clinically significant elevated serum creatinine) are contraindications. Treatment of this type of patient carries an increased risk of toxicity because of impaired excretion of the drug. Because of the possibility of hemolytic anemia due to immature erythrocyte enzyme systems (glutathione instability), the drug is contraindicated in pregnant patients at term (38 to 42 weeks gestation), during labor and delivery, or when the onset of labor is imminent. For the same reason, the drug is contraindicated in neonates under one month of age. Nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals) is contraindicated in patients with a previous history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with nitrofurantoin. Nitrofurantoin (monohydrate/macrocrystals) is also contraindicated in those patients with known hypersensitivity to nitrofurantoin. Nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals) are contraindicated in patients with a previous history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with nitrofurantoin. Nitrofurantoin capsules (monohydrate/macrocrystals) are also contraindicated in those patients with known hypersensitivity to nitrofurantoin. CONTRAINDICATIONS: Anuria, oliguria, or significant impairment of renal function (creatinine clearance under 60 mL per minute or clinically significant elevated serum creatinine) are contraindications. Because of the possibility of hemolytic anemia due to immature erythrocyte enzyme systems (glutathione instability), the drug is contraindicated in pregnant patients at term (38-42 weeks’gestation), during labor and delivery, or when the onset of labor is imminent. Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (macrocrystals) is contraindicated in patients with a previous history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with nitrofurantoin. Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (macrocrystals) is also contraindicated in those patients with known hypersensitivity to nitrofurantoin. Because of the possibility of hemolytic anemia due to immature erythrocyte enzyme systems (glutathione instability), the drug is contraindicated in pregnant patients at term (38 to 42 weeks' gestation), during labor and delivery, or when the onset of labor is imminent. Nitrofurantoin capsules (macrocrystals) are contraindicated in patients with a previous history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with nitrofurantoin. Nitrofurantoin capsules (macrocrystals) are also contraindicated in those patients with known hypersensitivity to nitrofurantoin. Because of the possibility of hemolytic anemia due to immature erythrocyte enzyme systems (glutathione instability), the drug is contraindicated in pregnant patients at term (38 to 42 weeks’ gestation), during labor and delivery, or when the onset of labor is imminent. Nitrofurantoin capsules, (macrocrystals) are contraindicated in patients with a previous history of cholestatic jaundice/ hepatic dysfunction associated with nitrofurantoin. Nitrofurantoin capsules, (macrocrystals) are also contraindicated in those patients with known hypersensitivity to nitrofurantoin. Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (monohydrate/macrocrystals) is contraindicated in patients with a previous history of cholestatic jaundice/hepatic dysfunction associated with nitrofurantoin. Nitrofurantoin Capsules, USP (monohydrate/macrocrystals) is also contraindicated in those patients with known hypersensitivity to nitrofurantoin. Anuria, oliguria, or significant impairment of renal function (creatinine clearance under 60 mL per minute or clinically significant elevated serum creatinine) are contraindications.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antacids : Decreased absorption of nitrofurantoin. (7.1) Uricosuric drugs: Inhibit renal tubular secretion of nitrofurantoin. (7.2) 7.1 Antacids Antacids containing magnesium trisilicate, when administered concomitantly with nitrofurantoin, reduce both the rate and extent of absorption. The mechanism for this interaction probably is adsorption of nitrofurantoin onto the surface of magnesium trisilicate. If coadministration of nitrofurantoin with antacids containing magnesium trisilicate cannot be avoided, monitor for lack of efficacy [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7.2 Uricosuric Drugs Uricosuric drugs, such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone, can inhibit renal tubular secretion of nitrofurantoin. The resulting increase in nitrofurantoin serum levels may increase toxicity, and the decreased urinary levels could lessen its efficacy as a urinary tract antibacterial. Therefore, monitor for nitrofurantoin adverse reactions when co-administering nitrofurantoin with uricosuric drugs. 7.3 Drug Interference with Laboratory Tests The presence of nitrofurantoin can cause a false-positive reaction for glucose in the urine when using Benedict's or Fehling's copper reduction reaction to determine the amount of reducing substances like glucose in the urine. Use glucose tests based on enzymatic glucose oxidase reactions to detect glucose in the urine. Drug Interactions Antacids containing magnesium trisilicate, when administered concomitantly with nitrofurantoin, reduce both the rate and extent of absorption. Uricosuric drugs, such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone, can inhibit renal tubular secretion of nitrofurantoin. Drug Interactions: Antacids containing magnesium trisilicate, when administered concomitantly with nitrofurantoin, reduce both the rate and extent of absorption.

=== TICAGRELOR ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ticagrelor is a P2Y 12 platelet inhibitor indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular (CV) death, myocardial infarction (MI), and stroke in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) or a history of myocardial infarction (MI). For at least the first 12 months following ACS, it is superior to clopidogrel. Ticagrelor tablets also reduces the risk of stent thrombosis in patients who have been stented for treatment of ACS. ( 1.1 ) to reduce the risk of a first MI or stroke in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) at high risk for such events. While use is not limited to this setting, the efficacy of ticagrelor was established in a population with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). ( 1.2 ) to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with acute ischemic stroke (NIH Stroke Scale score ≤5) or high-risk transient ischemic attack (TIA). ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Acute Coronary Syndrome or a History of Myocardial Infarction Ticagrelor tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular (CV) death, myocardial infarction (MI), and stroke in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) or a history of MI. Ticagrelor tablets also reduces the risk of stent thrombosis in patients who have been stented for treatment of ACS [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. 1.2 Coronary Artery Disease but No Prior Stroke or Myocardial Infarction Ticagrelor tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of a first MI or stroke in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) at high risk for such events [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. 1.3 Acute Ischemic Stroke or Transient Ischemic Attack (TIA) Ticagrelor tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with acute ischemic stroke (NIH Stroke Scale score ≤5) or high-risk transient ischemic attack (TIA) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE BRILINTA is a P2Y 12 platelet inhibitor indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular (CV) death, myocardial infarction (MI), and stroke in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) or a history of MI. BRILINTA also reduces the risk of stent thrombosis in patients who have been stented for treatment of ACS. (1.1) to reduce the risk of a first MI or stroke in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) at high risk for such events. While use is not limited to this setting, the efficacy of BRILINTA was established in a population with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). (1.2) to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with acute ischemic stroke (NIH Stroke Scale score ≤5) or high-risk transient ischemic attack (TIA). (1.3) 1.1 Acute Coronary Syndrome or a History of Myocardial Infarction BRILINTA is indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular (CV) death, myocardial infarction (MI), and stroke in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) or a history of MI. BRILINTA also reduces the risk of stent thrombosis in patients who have been stented for treatment of ACS [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . 1.2 Coronary Artery Disease but No Prior Stroke or Myocardial Infarction BRILINTA is indicated to reduce the risk of a first MI or stroke in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) at high risk for such events [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . 1.3 Acute Ischemic Stroke or Transient Ischemic Attack (TIA) BRILINTA is indicated to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with acute ischemic stroke (NIH Stroke Scale score ≤5) or high-risk transient ischemic attack (TIA) [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ticagrelor is a P2Y 12 platelet inhibitor indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular (CV) death, myocardial infarction (MI), and stroke in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) or a history of MI. Ticagrelor tablets also reduce the risk of stent thrombosis in patients who have been stented for treatment of ACS. Ticagrelor tablets also reduce the risk of stent thrombosis in patients who have been stented for treatment of ACS [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . 1.2 Coronary Artery Disease but No Prior Stroke or Myocardial Infarction Ticagrelor tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of a first MI or stroke in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) at high risk for such events [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )] . 1.3 Acute Ischemic Stroke or Transient Ischemic Attack (TIA) Ticagrelor tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with acute ischemic stroke (NIH Stroke Scale score ≤5) or high-risk transient ischemic attack (TIA) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ticagrelor tablets are a P2Y 12 platelet inhibitor indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular (CV) death, myocardial infarction (MI), and stroke in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) or a history of MI. While use is not limited to this setting, the efficacy of ticagrelor tablets were established in a population with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). (1.3) 1.1 Acute Coronary Syndrome or a History of Myocardial Infarction Ticagrelor tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular (CV) death, myocardial infarction (MI), and stroke in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) or a history of MI. Ticagrelor tablets also reduces the risk of stent thrombosis in patients who have been stented for treatment of ACS [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1.2 Coronary Artery Disease but No Prior Stroke or Myocardial Infarction Ticagrelor tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of a first MI or stroke in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) at high risk for such events [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1.3 Acute Ischemic Stroke or Transient Ischemic Attack (TIA) Ticagrelor tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with acute ischemic stroke (NIH Stroke Scale score ≤5) or high-risk transient ischemic attack (TIA) [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. (1.1) 1.1 Acute Coronary Syndrome or a History of Myocardial Infarction Ticagrelor tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular (CV) death, myocardial infarction (MI), and stroke in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) or a history of MI. Ticagrelor tablets also reduces the risk of stent thrombosis in patients who have been stented for treatment of ACS [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . 1.2 Coronary Artery Disease but No Prior Stroke or Myocardial Infarction Ticagrelor tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of a first MI or stroke in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) at high risk for such events [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 ) ] . 1.3 Acute Ischemic Stroke or Transient Ischemic Attack (TIA) Ticagrelor tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with acute ischemic stroke (NIH Stroke Scale score ≤5) or high-risk transient ischemic attack (TIA) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )] . Ticagrelor also reduces the risk of stent thrombosis in patients who have been stented for treatment of ACS. 1.3 Acute Ischemic Stroke or Transient Ischemic Attack (TIA) Ticagrelor tablet is indicated to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with acute ischemic stroke (NIH Stroke Scale score ≤5) or high-risk transient ischemic attack (TIA) [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ticagrelor tablet is a P2Y 12 platelet inhibitor indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular (CV) death, myocardial infarction (MI), and stroke in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) or a history of MI. While use is not limited to this setting, the efficacy of ticagrelor tablets was established in a population with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Ticagrelor tablets also reduce the risk of stent thrombosis in patients who have been stented for treatment of ACS [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . 1.2 Coronary Artery Disease but No Prior Stroke or Myocardial Infarction Ticagrelor tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of a first MI or stroke in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) at high risk for such events [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ] . 1.3 Acute Ischemic Stroke or Transient Ischemic Attack (TIA) Ticagrelor tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with acute ischemic stroke (NIH Stroke Scale score ≤5) or high-risk transient ischemic attack (TIA) [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ] . Ticagrelor tablets also reduces the risk of stent thrombosis in patients who have been stented for treatment of ACS [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ticagrelor tablets are a P2Y12 platelet inhibitor indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular (CV) death, myocardial infarction (MI), and stroke in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) or a history of MI. ( 1.2 ) to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with acute ischemic stroke (NIH Stroke Scale score ≤ 5) or high-risk transient ischemic attack (TIA). Ticagrelor tablets also reduces the risk of stent thrombosis in patients who have been stented for treatment of ACS [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] 1.2 Coronary Artery Disease but No Prior Stroke or Myocardial Infarction Ticagrelor tablets are indicated to reduce the risk of a first MI or stroke in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) at high risk for such events [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ].
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ACS or History of MI Initiate treatment with 180 mg oral loading dose of ticagrelor tablets. Then administer 90 mg twice daily during the first year. After one year, administer 60 mg twice daily. ( 2.2 ) Patients with CAD and No Prior Stroke or MI Administer 60 mg ticagrelor tablets twice daily. ( 2.3 ) Acute Ischemic Stroke Initiate treatment with a 180 mg loading dose of ticagrelor tablets then continue with 90 mg twice daily for up to 30 days. ( 2.4 ) Use ticagrelor tablets with a daily maintenance dose of aspirin of 75 to 100 mg. ( 2 ) However, in patients who have undergone PCI, consider single antiplatelet therapy with ticagrelor tablets based on the evolving risk for thrombotic versusbleeding events. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 General Instructions Advise patients who miss a dose of ticagrelor tablets to take their next dose at its scheduled time. For patients who are unable to swallow tablets whole, ticagrelor tablets can be crushed, mixed with water, and drunk. The mixture can also be administered via a nasogastric tube (CH8 or greater) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Do not administer ticagrelor tablets with another oral P2Y 12 platelet inhibitor. Avoid aspirin at doses higher than recommended [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. 2.2 Acute Coronary Syndrome or a History of Myocardial Infarction Initiate treatment with a 180 mg loading dose of ticagrelor tablets. Administer the first 90 mg maintenance dose of ticagrelor tablets, 6 to 12 hours after the loading dose. Administer 90 mg of ticagrelor tablets twice daily during the first year after an ACS event. After one year, administer 60 mg of ticagrelor tablets twice daily. Initiate ticagrelor tablets with a daily maintenance dose of aspirin of 75 mg to 100 mg. However, in patients who have undergone percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), consider single antiplatelet therapy with ticagrelor tablets based on the evolving risk for thrombotic versus bleeding events [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1) and Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. 2.3 Coronary Artery Disease but No Prior Stroke or Myocardial Infarction Administer 60 mg of ticagrelor tablets twice daily. Generally, use ticagrelor tablets with a daily maintenance dose of aspirin of 75 mg to 100 mg [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. 2.4 Acute Ischemic Stroke or Transient Ischemic Attack (TIA) Initiate treatment with a 180 mg loading dose of ticagrelor tablets and then continue with 90 mg twice daily for up to 30 days. Administer the first maintenance dose 6 to 12 hours after the loading dose. Use ticagrelor tablets with a loading dose of aspirin (300 mg to 325 mg) and a daily maintenance dose of aspirin of 75 mg to 100 mg [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ACS or History of MI Initiate treatment with 180 mg oral loading dose of BRILINTA. ( 2.2 ) Patients with CAD and No Prior Stroke or MI Administer 60 mg BRILINTA twice daily. ( 2.3 ) Acute Ischemic Stroke Initiate treatment with a 180 mg loading dose of BRILINTA then continue with 90 mg twice daily for up to 30 days. ( 2.4 ) Use BRILINTA with a daily maintenance dose of aspirin of 75-100 mg. (2 ) However, in patients who have undergone PCI, consider single antiplatelet therapy with BRILINTA based on the evolving risk for thrombotic versus bleeding events. ( 2.2 ) 2.1 General Instructions Advise patients who miss a dose of BRILINTA to take their next dose at its scheduled time. For patients who are unable to swallow tablets whole, BRILINTA tablets can be crushed, mixed with water, and drunk. The mixture can also be administered via a nasogastric tube (CH8 or greater) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Do not administer BRILINTA with another oral P2Y 12 platelet inhibitor. Avoid aspirin at doses higher than recommended [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 2.2 Acute Coronary Syndrome or a History of Myocardial Infarction Initiate treatment with a 180 mg loading dose of BRILINTA. Administer the first 90 mg maintenance dose of BRILINTA, 6 to 12 hours after the loading dose. Administer 90 mg of BRILINTA twice daily during the first year after an ACS event. After one year, administer 60 mg of BRILINTA twice daily. Initiate BRILINTA with a daily maintenance dose of aspirin of 75 mg to 100 mg. However, in patients who have undergone percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), consider single antiplatelet therapy with BRILINTA based on the evolving risk for thrombotic versus bleeding events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Studies (14) ]. 2.3 Coronary Artery Disease but No Prior Stroke or Myocardial Infarction Administer 60 mg of BRILINTA twice daily. Generally, use BRILINTA with a daily maintenance dose of aspirin of 75 mg to 100 mg [see Clinical Studies (14) ]. 2.4 Acute Ischemic Stroke or Transient Ischemic Attack (TIA) Initiate treatment with a 180 mg loading dose of BRILINTA and then continue with 90 mg twice daily for up to 30 days. Use BRILINTA with a loading dose of aspirin (300 mg to 325 mg) and a daily maintenance dose of aspirin of 75 mg to 100 mg [see Clinical Studies (14) ]. ( 2.4 ) Use ticagrelor tablets with a daily maintenance dose of aspirin of 75 mg to 100 mg. ( 2 ) However, in patients who have undergone PCI, consider single antiplatelet therapy with ticagrelor tablets based on the evolving risk for thrombotic versus bleeding events. However, in patients who have undergone percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), consider single antiplatelet therapy with ticagrelor tablets based on the evolving risk for thrombotic versus bleeding events [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . Generally, use ticagrelor tablets with a daily maintenance dose of aspirin of 75 mg to 100 mg [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . Use ticagrelor tablets with a loading dose of aspirin (300 mg to 325 mg) and a daily maintenance dose of aspirin of 75 mg to 100 mg [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . (2.2 ) Patients with CAD and No Prior Stroke or MI Administer 60 mg ticagrelor tablets twice daily. (2.3 ) Acute Ischemic Stroke Initiate treatment with a 180 mg loading dose of ticagrelor tablets then continue with 90 mg twice daily for up to 30 days. (2.4) Use ticagrelor tablets with a daily maintenance dose of aspirin of 75 to 100 mg. (2 ) However, in patients who have undergone PCI, consider single antiplatelet therapy with ticagrelor tablets based on the evolving risk for thrombotic versus bleeding events. The mixture can also be administered via a nasogastric tube (CH 8 or greater) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. However, in patients who have undergone percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), consider single antiplatelet therapy with ticagrelor tablets based on the evolving risk for thrombotic versus bleeding events [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Studies (14)]. Generally, use ticagrelor tablets with a daily maintenance dose of aspirin of 75 mg to 100 mg [see Clinical Studies (14) ]. Use ticagrelor tablets with a loading dose of aspirin (300 mg to 325 mg) and a daily maintenance dose of aspirin of 75 mg to 100 mg [see Clinical Studies (14) ]. ( 2.2 ) Use ticagrelor tablets with a daily maintenance dose of aspirin of 75-100 mg. For patients who are unable to swallow tablets whole, ticagrelor tablets tablets can be crushed, mixed with water, and drunk. Do not administer ticagrelor tablets with another oral P2Y12 platelet inhibitor. However, in patients who have undergone percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), consider single antiplatelet therapy with ticagrelor tablets based on the evolving risk for thrombotic versus bleeding events [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. The mixture can also be administered via a nasogastric tube (CH8 or greater) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Avoid aspirin at doses higher than recommended [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • ACS or History of MI o Initiate treatment with 180 mg oral loading dose of ticagrelor. ( 2.2 ) • Patients with CAD and No Prior Stroke or MI o Administer 60 mg ticagrelor twice daily. ( 2.3 ) • Acute Ischemic Stroke o Initiate treatment with a 180 mg loading dose of ticagrelor then continue with 90 mg twice daily for up to 30 days. ( 2.4 ) Use ticagrelor tablet with a daily maintenance dose of aspirin of 75-100 mg. The mixture can also be administered via a nasogastric tube (CH8 or greater) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Avoid aspirin at doses higher than recommended [ see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. Administer the first maintenance dose 6 to 12 hours after the loading dose . Use ticagrelor tablets with a loading dose of aspirin (300 to 325 mg) and a daily maintenance dose of aspirin of 75 to 100 mg [See Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. ( 2.4 ) Use ticagrelor tablets with a daily maintenance dose of aspirin of 75-100 mg. The mixture can also be administered via a nasogastric tube (CH8 or greater) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Avoid aspirin at doses higher than recommended [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . However, in patients who have undergone percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), consider single antiplatelet therapy with ticagrelor tablets based on the evolving risk for thrombotic versus bleeding events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Studies (14) ] . Generally, use ticagrelor tablets with a daily maintenance dose of aspirin of 75 mg to 100 mg [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . Use ticagrelor tablets with a loading dose of aspirin (300 mg to 325 mg) and a daily maintenance dose of aspirin of 75 mg to 100 mg [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . Administerthe first 90 mg maintenance dose of ticagrelor tablets, 6 to 12 hours after the loading dose. However, in patients who have undergone percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), consider single antiplatelet therapy with ticagrelor tablets based on the evolving risk for thrombotic versus bleeding events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Studies (14) ]. 2.4 Acute Ischemic Stroke or Transient Ischemic Attack (TIA) Initiate treatment with a 180 mg loading dose of ticagrelor tablets and then continuewith 90 mg twice daily for up to 30 days. Avoid aspirin at doses higher than recommended [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] 2.2 Acute Coronary Syndrome or a History of Myocardial Infarction Initiate treatment with a 180 mg loading dose of ticagrelor tablets.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • History of intracranial hemorrhage. ( 4.1 ) • Active pathological bleeding. ( 4.2 ) • Hypersensitivity to ticagrelor or any component of the product. ( 4.3 ) 4.1 History of Intracranial Hemorrhage Ticagrelor tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) because of a high risk of recurrent ICH in this population [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ,( 14.2 )]. 4.2 Active Bleeding Ticagrelor tablets are contraindicated in patients with active pathological bleeding such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Adverse Reactions (6.1 )]. 4.3 Hypersensitivity Ticagrelor tablets are contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity (e.g., angioedema) to ticagrelor or any component of the product. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS History of intracranial hemorrhage. (4.1) Active pathological bleeding. (4.2) Hypersensitivity to ticagrelor or any component of the product. (4.3) 4.1 History of Intracranial Hemorrhage BRILINTA is contraindicated in patients with a history of intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) because of a high risk of recurrent ICH in this population [see Clinical Studies (14.1) , (14.2) ]. 4.2 Active Bleeding BRILINTA is contraindicated in patients with active pathological bleeding such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . 4.3 Hypersensitivity BRILINTA is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity (e.g., angioedema) to ticagrelor or any component of the product. ( 4.1 ) Active pathological bleeding. ( 4.2 ) Hypersensitivity to ticagrelor or any component of the product. ( 4.3 ) 4.1 History of Intracranial Hemorrhage Ticagrelor is contraindicated in patients with a history of intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) because of a high risk of recurrent ICH in this population [see Clinical Studies (14.1 , 14.2 ) ] . 4.2 Active Bleeding Ticagrelor is contraindicated in patients with active pathological bleeding such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . 4.3 Hypersensitivity Ticagrelor is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity (e.g., angioedema) to ticagrelor or any component of the product . (4.3 ) 4.1 History of Intracranial Hemorrhage Ticagrelor tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) because of a high risk of recurrent ICH in this population [see Clinical Studies (14.1), (14.2) ]. 4.2 Active Bleeding Ticagrelor tablets are contraindicated in patients with active pathological bleeding such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. ( 4.3 ) 4.1 History of Intracranial Hemorrhage Ticagrelor tablet is contraindicated in patients with a history of intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) because of a high risk of recurrent ICH in this population [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. 4.2 Active Bleeding Ticagrelor tablet is contraindicated in patients with active pathological bleeding such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. 4.3 Hypersensitivity Ticagrelor tablet is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity (e.g., angioedema) to ticagrelor or any component of the product. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS · History of intracranial hemorrhage. ( 4.1 ) · Active pathological bleeding. ( 4.2 ) · Hypersensitivity to ticagrelor or any component of the product. ( 4.3 ) 4.1 History of Intracranial Hemorrhage Ticagrelor tablet is contraindicated in patients with a history of intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) because of a high risk of recurrent ICH in this population [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 , 14.2 )]. ( 4.3 ) 4.1 History of Intracranial Hemorrhage Ticagrelor tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) because of a high risk of recurrent ICH in this population [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ), ( 14.2 )]. 4.2 Active Bleeding Ticagrelor tablets are contraindicated in patients with active pathological bleeding such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. (4.3) 4.1 History of Intracranial Hemorrhage Ticagrelor tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) because of a high risk of recurrent ICH in this population [see Clinical Studies (14.1) , (14.2) ] . 4.2 Active Bleeding Ticagrelor tablets are contraindicated in patients with active pathological bleeding such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . ( 4.3 ) 4.1 History of Intracranial Hemorrhage Ticagrelor is contraindicated in patients with a history of intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) because of a high risk of recurrent ICH in this population [see Clinical Studies (14.1 , 14.2) ]. 4.2 Active Bleeding Ticagrelor is contraindicated in patients with active pathological bleeding such as peptic ulcer or intracranial hemorrhage [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. ( 4.3 ) 4.1 History of Intracranial Hemorrhage Ticagrelor tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) because of a high risk of recurrent ICH in this population [see Clinical Studies (14.1) , (14.2) ].
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Avoid use with strong CYP3A inhibitors or CYP3A inducers. ( 7.1 , 7.2 ) • Opioids: Decreased exposure to ticagrelor. Consider use of parenteral anti-platelet agent. ( 7.3) • Patients receiving more than 40 mg per day of simvastatin or lovastatin may be at increased risk of statin-related adverse effects. ( 7.4 ) • Rosuvastatin plasma concentrations may increase. Monitor for statin-related adverse effects. ( 7.4 ) • Monitor digoxin levels with initiation of or any change in ticagrelor. ( 7.5 ) 7.1 Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Strong CYP3A inhibitors substantially increase ticagrelor exposure and so increase the risk of dyspnea, bleeding, and other adverse events. Avoid use of strong inhibitors of CYP3A (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, clarithromycin, nefazodone, ritonavir, saquinavir, nelfinavir, indinavir, atazanavir and telithromycin) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . 7.2 Strong CYP3A Inducers Strong CYP3A inducers substantially reduce ticagrelor exposure and so decrease the efficacy of ticagrelor. Avoid use with strong inducers of CYP3A (e.g., rifampin, phenytoin, carbamazepine and phenobarbital) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3) ]. 7.3 Opioids As with other oral P2Y 12 inhibitors, co-administration of opioid agonists delay and reduce the absorption of ticagrelor and its active metabolite presumably because of slowed gastric emptying [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Consider the use of a parenteral anti-platelet agent in acute coronary syndrome patients requiring co-administration of morphine or other opioid agonists. 7.4 Simvastatin, Lovastatin , Rosuvastatin Ticagrelor increases serum concentrations of simvastatin and lovastatin because these drugs are metabolized by CYP3A4. Avoid simvastatin and lovastatin doses greater than 40 mg [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Ticagrelor increases serum concentration of rosuvastatin because rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.5 Digoxin Ticagrelor inhibits the P-glycoprotein transporter; monitor digoxin levels with initiation of or any change in ticagrelor therapy [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Avoid use with strong CYP3A inhibitors or CYP3A inducers. (7.1 , 7.2) Opioids: Decreased exposure to ticagrelor. ( 7.3 ) Patients receiving more than 40 mg per day of simvastatin or lovastatin may be at increased risk of statin-related adverse effects. ( 7.4 ) Monitor digoxin levels with initiation of or any change in BRILINTA. Avoid use of strong inhibitors of CYP3A (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, clarithromycin, nefazodone, ritonavir, saquinavir, nelfinavir, indinavir, atazanavir and telithromycin) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Avoid use with strong inducers of CYP3A (e.g., rifampin, phenytoin, carbamazepine and phenobarbital) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.3 Opioids As with other oral P2Y 12 inhibitors, co-administration of opioid agonists delay and reduce the absorption of ticagrelor and its active metabolite presumably because of slowed gastric emptying [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.4 Simvastatin, Lovastatin BRILINTA increases serum concentrations of simvastatin and lovastatin because these drugs are metabolized by CYP3A4. Avoid simvastatin and lovastatin doses greater than 40 mg [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.5 Digoxin BRILINTA inhibits the P-glycoprotein transporter; monitor digoxin levels with initiation of or change in BRILINTA therapy [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . ( 7.1 , 7.2 ) Opioids: Decreased exposure to ticagrelor. ( 7.4 ) Rosuvastatin plasma concentrations may increase. ( 7.4 ) Monitor digoxin levels with initiation of or any change in ticagrelor. Avoid use of strong inhibitors of CYP3A (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, clarithromycin, nefazodone, ritonavir, saquinavir, nelfinavir, indinavir, atazanavir and telithromycin) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Avoid use with strong inducers of CYP3A (e.g., rifampin, phenytoin, carbamazepine and phenobarbital) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 7.3 Opioids As with other oral P2Y 12 inhibitors, coadministration of opioid agonists delay and reduce the absorption of ticagrelor and its active metabolite presumably because of slowed gastric emptying [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Consider the use of a parenteral anti-platelet agent in acute coronary syndrome patients requiring coadministration of morphine or other opioid agonists. 7.4 Simvastatin, Lovastatin, Rosuvastatin Ticagrelor increases serum concentrations of simvastatin and lovastatin because these drugs are metabolized by CYP3A4. Avoid simvastatin and lovastatin doses greater than 40 mg [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . Ticagrelor increases serum concentration of rosuvastatin because rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.5 Digoxin Ticagrelor inhibits the P-glycoprotein transporter; monitor digoxin levels with initiation of or change in ticagrelor therapy [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . (7.1, 7.2) Opioids: Decreased exposure to ticagrelor. (7.3) Patients receiving more than 40 mg per day of simvastatin or lovastatin may be at increased risk of statin-related adverse effects. (7.4) Rosuvastatin plasma concentrations may increase. ( 7.4 ) Monitor digoxin levels with initiation of or any change in ticagrelor tablets. (7.5) 7.1 Strong CYP3A Inhibitors Strong CYP3A inhibitors substantially increase ticagrelor exposure and so increase the risk of dyspnea, bleeding, and other adverse events. Avoid use of strong inhibitors of CYP3A (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, clarithromycin, nefazodone, ritonavir, saquinavir, nelfinavir, indinavir, atazanavir and telithromycin) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Avoid use with strong inducers of CYP3A (e.g., rifampin, phenytoin, carbamazepine and phenobarbital) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.3 Opioids As with other oral P2Y 12 inhibitors, co-administration of opioid agonists delay and reduce the absorption of ticagrelor and its active metabolite presumably because of slowed gastric emptying [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.4 Simvastatin, Lovastatin, Rosuvastatin Ticagrelor tablets increases serum concentrations of simvastatin and lovastatin because these drugs are metabolized by CYP3A4. Avoid simvastatin and lovastatin doses greater than 40 mg [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Ticagrelor tablets increases serum concentration of rosuvastatin because rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] 7.5 Digoxin Ticagrelor tablets inhibits the P-glycoprotein transporter; monitor digoxin levels with initiation of or change in ticagrelor therapy [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Avoid use of strong inhibitors of CYP3A (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, clarithromycin, nefazodone, ritonavir, saquinavir, nelfinavir, indinavir, atazanavir and telithromycin) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Avoid use with strong inducers of CYP3A (e.g., rifampin, phenytoin, carbamazepine and phenobarbital) [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.3 Opioids As with other oral P2Y12 inhibitors, co-administration of opioid agonists delay and reduce the absorption of ticagrelor and its active metabolite presumably because of slowed gastric emptying [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ]. Ticagrelor tablets increases serum concentration of rosuvastatin because rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.5 Digoxin Ticagrelor tablets inhibits the P-glycoprotein transporter; monitor digoxin levels with initiation of or change in ticagrelor tablets therapy [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.3 Opioids As with other oral P2Y 12 inhibitors, co-administration of opioid agonists delay and reduce the absorption of ticagrelor and its active metabolite presumably because of slowed gastric emptying [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7.5 Digoxin Ticagrelor tablets inhibit the P-glycoprotein transporter; monitor digoxin levels with initiation of or change in ticagrelor tablets therapy [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Ticagrelor increases serum concentration of rosuvastatin because rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . 7.5 Digoxin Ticagrelor inhibits the P-glycoprotein transporter; monitor digoxin levels with initiation of or change in ticagrelor therapy [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Ticagrelor increases serum concentration of rosuvastatin because rosuvastatin is a BCRP substrate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.5 Digoxin Ticagrelor inhibits the P-glycoprotein transporter; monitor digoxin levels with initiation of or change in ticagrelor therapy [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.3 Opioids As with other oral P2Y12 inhibitors, co-administration of opioid agonists delay and reduce the absorption of ticagrelor and its active metabolite presumably because of slowed gastric emptying [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] .

=== TIMOLOL MALEATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension who are insufficiently responsive to beta-blockers (failed to achieve target IOP determined after multiple measurements over time). The IOP-lowering of dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution administered twice a day was slightly less than that seen with the concomitant administration of 0.5% timolol administered twice a day and 2% dorzolamide administered three times a day [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. Dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is a combination of dorzolamide hydrochloride, a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, and timolol maleate, a beta-adrenergic receptor blocking agent, indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension who are insufficiently responsive to beta-blockers. The IOP-lowering of dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution twice daily was slightly less than that seen with the concomitant administration of 0.5% timolol twice daily, and 2% dorzolamide three times daily. ( 1 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Preservative-free Timolol Maleate Ophthalmic Solution in OCUDOSE is indicated in the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with ocular hypertension or open-angle glaucoma. Preservative-free Timolol Maleate Ophthalmic Solution in OCUDOSE may be used when a patient is sensitive to the preservative in Timolol Maleate Ophthalmic Solution, benzalkonium chloride, or when use of a preservative-free topical medication is advisable. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Brimonidine tartrate/timolol maleate ophthalmic solution 0.2%/0.5% is an alpha adrenergic receptor agonist with a beta adrenergic receptor inhibitor indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension who require adjunctive or replacement therapy due to inadequately controlled IOP; the IOP-lowering of brimonidine tartrate/timolol maleate ophthalmic solution dosed twice a day was slightly less than that seen with the concomitant administration of 0.5% timolol maleate ophthalmic solution dosed twice a day and 0.2% brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution dosed three times per day. Brimonidine Tartrate/Timolol Maleate is an alpha adrenergic receptor agonist with a beta adrenergic receptor inhibitor indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension who require adjunctive or replacement therapy due to inadequately controlled IOP; the IOP-lowering of brimonidine tartrate/timolol maleate ophthalmic solution dosed twice a day was slightly less than that seen with the concomitant administration of timolol maleate ophthalmic solution, 0.5% dosed twice a day and brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution, 0.2% dosed three times per day. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension who are insufficiently responsive to beta-blockers (failed to achieve target IOP determined after multiple measurements over time). The IOP-lowering of dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution administered twice a day was slightly less than that seen with the concomitant administration of 0.5% timolol administered twice a day and 2% dorzolamide administered three times a day [see Clinical Studies (14) ]. Dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is a combination of dorzolamide hydrochloride, a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, and timolol maleate, a beta­ adrenergic receptor blocking agent, indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension who are insufficiently responsive to beta-blockers. The IOP-lowering of dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution administered twice a day was slightly less than that seen with the concomitant administration of 0.5% timolol administered twice a day and 2% dorzolamide administered three times a day [see Clinical Studies (14)]. (1) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypertension Timolol maleate tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension. They may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents, especially thiazide-type diuretics. Myocardial Infarction Timolol is indicated in patients who have survived the acute phase of myocardial infarction, and are clinically stable, to reduce cardiovascular mortality and the risk of reinfarction. Migraine Timolol is indicated for the prophylaxis of migraine headache. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Brimonidine tartrate and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution 0.2% /0.5% is an alpha-adrenergic receptor agonist with a beta-adrenergic receptor inhibitor indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension who require adjunctive or replacement therapy due to inadequately controlled IOP; the IOP-lowering of Brimonidine tartrate and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution dosed twice a day was slightly less than that seen with the concomitant administration of 0.5% timolol maleate ophthalmic solution dosed twice a day and 0.2% brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution dosed three times per day. Brimonidine tartrate and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is an alpha-adrenergic receptor agonist with a beta-adrenergic receptor inhibitor indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension who require adjunctive or replacement therapy due to inadequately controlled IOP; the IOP-lowering of Brimonidine tartrate and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution dosed twice a day was slightly less than that seen with the concomitant administration of timolol maleate ophthalmic solution, 0.5% dosed twice a day and brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution, 0.2% dosed three times per day. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is indicated in the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with ocular hypertension or open-angle glaucoma. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Preservative-free timolol maleate ophthalmic solution USP in the unit dose vial is indicated in the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with ocular hypertension or open-angle glaucoma. Preservative-free timolol maleate ophthalmic solution USP in the unit dose vial may be used when a patient is sensitive to the preservative in timolol maleate ophthalmic solution USP, benzalkonium chloride, or when use of a preservative-free topical medication is advisable. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension who are insufficiently responsive to beta-blockers (failed to achieve target IOP determined after multiple measurements over time). The IOP-lowering of dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution administered twice a day was slightly less than that seen with the concomitant administration of 0.5% timolol administered twice a day and 2% dorzolamide administered three times a day [see Clinical Studies (14)] . Dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, and timolol maleate a beta-adrenergic receptor blocking agent indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension who are insufficiently responsive to beta-blockers.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION The dose is one drop of dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution in the affected eye(s) two times daily. If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used, the drugs should be administered at least five minutes apart [see Drug Interactions ( 7.3 )]. The dose is one drop of dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution in the affected eye(s) two times daily. ( 2 ) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Preservative-free Timolol Maleate Ophthalmic Solution in OCUDOSE is a sterile solution that does not contain a preservative. The solution from one individual unit is to be used immediately after opening for administration to one or both eyes. Since sterility cannot be guaranteed after the individual unit is opened, the remaining contents should be discarded immediately after administration. Preservative-free Timolol Maleate Ophthalmic Solution in OCUDOSE is available in concentrations of 0.25 and 0.5%. The usual starting dose is one drop of 0.25% Preservative-free Timolol Maleate Ophthalmic Solution in OCUDOSE in the affected eye(s) administered twice a day. Apply enough gentle pressure on the individual container to obtain a single drop of solution. If the clinical response is not adequate, the dosage may be changed to one drop of 0.5% solution in the affected eye(s) administered twice a day. Since in some patients the pressure-lowering response to Preservative-free Timolol Maleate Ophthalmic Solution in OCUDOSE may require a few weeks to stabilize, evaluation should include a determination of intraocular pressure after approximately 4 weeks of treatment with Preservative-free Timolol Maleate Ophthalmic Solution in OCUDOSE. If the intraocular pressure is maintained at satisfactory levels, the dosage schedule may be changed to one drop once a day in the affected eye(s). Because of diurnal variations in intraocular pressure, satisfactory response to the once-a-day dose is best determined by measuring the intraocular pressure at different times during the day. Dosages above one drop of 0.5% Timolol Maleate Ophthalmic Solution twice a day generally have not been shown to produce further reduction in intraocular pressure. If the patient’s intraocular pressure is still not at a satisfactory level on this regimen, concomitant therapy with other agent(s) for lowering intraocular pressure can be instituted taking into consideration that the preparation(s) used concomitantly may contain one or more preservatives. The concomitant use of two topical beta-adrenergic blocking agents is not recommended (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , Beta-adrenergic blocking agents ). 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose is one drop of brimonidine tartrate/timolol maleate ophthalmic solution in the affected eye(s) twice daily approximately 12 hours apart. If more than one topical ophthalmic product is to be used, the different products should be instilled at least 5 minutes apart. One drop in the affected eye(s), twice daily approximately 12 hours apart. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose is one drop of dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution in the affected eye(s) two times daily. If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used, the drugs should be administered at least five minutes apart [see Drug Interactions (7.3) ]. If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used, the drugs should be administered at least five minutes apart [see Drug Interactions (7.3)]. (2) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Hypertension The usual initial dosage of timolol maleate is 10 mg twice a day, whether used alone or added to diuretic therapy. Dosage may be increased or decreased depending on heart rate and blood pressure response. The usual total maintenance dosage is 20 to 40 mg per day. Increases in dosage to a maximum of 60 mg per day divided into two doses may be necessary. There should be an interval of at least 7 days between increases in dosages. Timolol maleate tablets may be used with a thiazide diuretic or with other antihypertensive agents. Patients should be observed carefully during initiation of such concomitant therapy. Myocardial Infarction The recommended dosage for long-term prophylactic use in patients who have survived the acute phase of a myocardial infarction is 10 mg given twice daily (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). Migraine The usual initial dosage of timolol maleate is 10 mg twice a day. During maintenance therapy the 20 mg daily dosage may be administered as a single dose. Total daily dosage may be increased to a maximum of 30 mg, given in divided doses, or decreased to 10 mg once per day, depending on clinical response and tolerability. If a satisfactory response is not obtained after 6 to 8 weeks use of the maximum daily dosage, therapy with timolol should be discontinued. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose is one drop of Brimonidine tartrate and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution in the affected eye(s) twice daily approximately 12 hours apart. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is available in concentrations of 0.25 and 0.5%. The usual starting dose is one drop of timolol maleate ophthalmic solution 0.25% in the affected eye(s) twice a day. If the clinical response is not adequate, the dosage may be changed to one drop of 0.5% solution in the affected eye(s) twice a day. Since in some patients the pressure-lowering response to timolol maleate ophthalmic solution may require a few weeks to stabilize, evaluation should include a determination of intraocular pressure after approximately 4 weeks of treatment with timolol maleate ophthalmic solution. Dosages above one drop of timolol maleate ophthalmic solution 0.5% twice a day generally have not been shown to produce further reduction in intraocular pressure. If the patient's intraocular pressure is still not at a satisfactory level on this regimen, concomitant therapy with other agent(s) for lowering intraocular pressure can be instituted. The concomitant use of two topical beta-adrenergic blocking agents is not recommended [see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , Beta-adrenergic blocking agents ]. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Preservative-free timolol maleate ophthalmic solution USP in the unit dose vial is a sterile solution that does not contain a preservative. Preservative-free timolol maleate ophthalmic solution in the unit dose vial is available in concentrations of 0.25% and 0.5%. The usual starting dose is one drop of 0.25% preservative-free timolol maleate ophthalmic solution in the unit dose vial in the affected eye(s) administered twice a day. Apply enough gentle pressure on the individual vial to obtain a single drop of solution. Since in some patients the pressure-lowering response to preservative-free timolol maleate ophthalmic solution in the unit dose vial may require a few weeks to stabilize, evaluation should include a determination of intraocular pressure after approximately 4 weeks of treatment with preservative-free timolol maleate ophthalmic solution in the unit dose vial. The concomitant use of two topical beta-adrenergic blocking agents is not recommended. (See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions, Beta-adrenergic blocking agents .) If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used, the drugs should be administered at least five minutes apart [see Drug Interactions (7.3)] .
Warnings: WARNINGS As with many topically applied ophthalmic drugs, this drug is absorbed systemically. The same adverse reactions found with systemic administration of beta-adrenergic blocking agents may occur with topical administration. For example, severe respiratory reactions and cardiac reactions, including death due to bronchospasm in patients with asthma, and rarely death in association with cardiac failure, have been reported following systemic or ophthalmic administration of timolol maleate (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation may be essential for support of the circulation in individuals with diminished myocardial contractility, and its inhibition by beta-adrenergic receptor blockade may precipitate more severe failure. In Patients without a History of Cardiac Failure continued depression of the myocardium with beta-blocking agents over a period of time can, in some cases, lead to cardiac failure. At the first sign or symptom of cardiac failure, Preservative-free Timolol Maleate Ophthalmic Solution in OCUDOSE should be discontinued. Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (e.g., chronic bronchitis, emphysema) of mild or moderate severity, bronchospastic disease, or a history of bronchospastic disease (other than bronchial asthma or a history of bronchial asthma, in which Timolol Maleate Ophthalmic Solution in OCUDOSE is contraindicated [see CONTRAINDICATIONS ]) should, in general, not receive beta-blockers, including Preservative-free Timolol Maleate Ophthalmic Solution in OCUDOSE. Major Surgery The necessity or desirability of withdrawal of beta-adrenergic blocking agents prior to major surgery is controversial. Beta-adrenergic receptor blockade impairs the ability of the heart to respond to beta-adrenergically mediated reflex stimuli. This may augment the risk of general anesthesia in surgical procedures. Some patients receiving beta-adrenergic receptor blocking agents have experienced protracted severe hypotension during anesthesia. Difficulty in restarting and maintaining the heartbeat has also been reported. For these reasons, in patients undergoing elective surgery, some authorities recommend gradual withdrawal of beta-adrenergic receptor blocking agents. If necessary during surgery, the effects of beta-adrenergic blocking agents may be reversed by sufficient doses of adrenergic agonists. Diabetes Mellitus Beta-adrenergic blocking agents should be administered with caution in patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycemia or to diabetic patients (especially those with labile diabetes) who are receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents. Beta-adrenergic receptor blocking agents may mask the signs and symptoms of acute hypoglycemia. Thyrotoxicosis Beta-adrenergic blocking agents may mask certain clinical signs (e.g., tachycardia) of hyperthyroidism. Patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis should be managed carefully to avoid abrupt withdrawal of beta-adrenergic blocking agents that might precipitate a thyroid storm. WARNINGS Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation may be essential for support of the circulation in individuals with diminished myocardial contractility, and its inhibition by beta-adrenergic receptor blockade may precipitate more severe failure. Although beta-blockers should be avoided in overt congestive heart failure, they can be used, if necessary, with caution in patients with a history of failure who are well compensated, usually with digitalis and diuretics. Both digitalis and timolol maleate slow AV conduction. If cardiac failure persists, therapy with timolol maleate should be withdrawn. At the first sign or symptom of cardiac failure, patients receiving timolol should be digitalized and/or be given a diuretic, and the response observed closely. If cardiac failure continues, despite adequate digitalization and diuretic therapy, timolol should be withdrawn. Exacerbation of Ischemic Heart Disease Following Abrupt Withdrawal Hypersensitivity to catecholamines has been observed in patients withdrawn from beta-blocker therapy; exacerbation of angina and, in some cases, myocardial infarction have occurred after abrupt discontinuation of such therapy. When discontinuing chronically administered timolol maleate, particularly in patients with ischemic heart disease, the dosage should be gradually reduced over a period of one to two weeks and the patient should be carefully monitored. If angina markedly worsens or acute coronary insufficiency develops, timolol maleate administration should be reinstituted promptly, at least temporarily, and other measures appropriate for the management of unstable angina should be taken. Patients should be warned against interruption or discontinuation of therapy without the physician's advice. Because coronary artery disease is common and may be unrecognized, it may be prudent not to discontinue timolol maleate therapy abruptly even in patients treated only for hypertension. Obstructive Pulmonary Disease PATIENTS WITH CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (e.g., CHRONIC BRONCHITIS, EMPHYSEMA) OF MILD OR MODERATE SEVERITY, BRONCHOSPASTIC DISEASE OR A HISTORY OF BRONCHOSPASTIC DISEASE (OTHER THAN BRONCHIAL ASTHMA OR A HISTORY OF BRONCHIAL ASTHMA, IN WHICH 'TIMOLOL MALEATE' IS CONTRAINDICATED, see CONTRAINDICATIONS), SHOULD IN GENERAL NOT RECEIVE BETA-BLOCKERS, INCLUDING 'TIMOLOL'. However, if timolol is necessary in such patients, then the drug should be administered with caution since it may block bronchodilation produced by endogenous and exogenous catecholamine stimulation of beta 2 receptors. Major Surgery The necessity or desirability of withdrawal of beta-blocking therapy prior to major surgery is controversial. Some patients receiving beta-adrenergic receptor blocking agents have been subject to protracted severe hypotension during anesthesia. If necessary during surgery, the effects of beta-adrenergic blocking agents may be reversed by sufficient doses of such agonists as isoproterenol, dopamine, dobutamine or norepinephrine (see OVERDOSAGE). Diabetes Mellitus Timolol should be administered with caution in patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycemia or to diabetic patients (especially those with labile diabetes) who are receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents. Thyrotoxicosis Beta-adrenergic blockade may mask certain clinical signs (e.g., tachycardia) of hyperthyroidism. Patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis should be managed carefully to avoid abrupt withdrawal of beta-blockade which might precipitate a thyroid storm. For example, severe respiratory reactions and cardiac reactions, including death due to bronchospasm in patients with asthma, and rarely death in association with cardiac failure, have been reported following systemic or ophthalmic administration of timolol maleate [see CONTRAINDICATIONS ]. Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation may be essential for support of the circulation in individuals with diminished myocardial contractility, and its inhibition of beta-adrenergic receptor blockade may precipitate more severe failure. At the first sign or symptom of cardiac failure, timolol maleate ophthalmic solution should be discontinued. Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (e.g., chronic bronchitis, emphysema) of mild or moderate severity, bronchospastic disease, or a history of bronchospastic disease (other than bronchial asthma or a history of bronchial asthma, in which timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated [see CONTRAINDICATIONS ]) should, in general, not receive beta-blockers, including timolol maleate ophthalmic solution. For example, severe respiratory reactions and cardiac reactions, including death due to bronchospasm in patients with asthma, and rarely death in association with cardiac failure, have been reported following systemic or ophthalmic administration of timolol maleate USP (see CONTRAINDICATIONS ). At the first sign or symptom of cardiac failure, preservative-free timolol maleate ophthalmic solution USP in unit dose vial should be discontinued. Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (e.g., chronic bronchitis, emphysema) of mild or moderate severity, bronchospastic disease, or a history of bronchospastic disease (other than bronchial asthma or a history of bronchial asthma, in which timolol maleate ophthalmic solution USP is contraindicated [see CONTRAINDICATIONS ]) should, in general, not receive beta-blockers, including preservative-free timolol maleate ophthalmic solution USP in the unit dose vial.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with: Bronchial asthma or a history of bronchial asthma, severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. ( 4.1 ) Sinus bradycardia, second or third degree atrioventricular block, overt cardiac failure, cardiogenic shock. ( 4.2 ) Hypersensitivity to any component of this product. ( 4.3 , 5.3 ) 4.1 Asthma, COPD Dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with bronchial asthma, a history of bronchial asthma, or severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . 4.2 Sinus Bradycardia, AV Block, Cardiac Failure, Cardiogenic Shock Dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with sinus bradycardia, second or third degree atrioventricular block, overt cardiac failure, and cardiogenic shock [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] . 4.3 Hypersensitivity Dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] . CONTRAINDICATIONS Preservative-free Timolol Maleate Ophthalmic Solution in OCUDOSE is contraindicated in patients with (1) bronchial asthma; (2) a history of bronchial asthma; (3) severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (see WARNINGS ); (4) sinus bradycardia; (5) second or third degree atrioventricular block; (6) overt cardiac failure (see WARNINGS ); (7) cardiogenic shock; or (8) hypersensitivity to any component of this product. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Bronchial asthma, a history of bronchial asthma, severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. ( 4.1 , 5.1 , 5.3 ) Sinus bradycardia, atrioventricular block, overt cardiac failure, cardiogenic shock. ( 4.2 , 5.2 ) Neonates and infants (under the age of 2 years). ( 4.3 ) Hypersensitivity to any component of this product. ( 4.4 ) 4.1 Reactive Airway Disease Including Asthma, COPD Brimonidine tartrate/timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with reactive airway disease including bronchial asthma; a history of bronchial asthma; severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 , 5.3 )] . 4.2 Sinus Bradycardia, AV Block, Cardiac Failure, Cardiogenic Shock Brimonidine tartrate/timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with sinus bradycardia; second or third degree atrioventricular block; overt cardiac failure [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] ; cardiogenic shock. 4.3 Neonates and Infants (Under the Age of 2 Years) Brimonidine tartrate/timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in neonates and infants (under the age of 2 years). 4.4 Hypersensitivity Reactions Local hypersensitivity reactions have occurred following the use of different components of brimonidine tartrate/timolol maleate. Brimonidine tartrate/timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients who have exhibited a hypersensitivity reaction to any component of this medication in the past. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with: Bronchial asthma or a history of bronchial asthma, severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.( 4.1 ) Sinus bradycardia, second or third degree atrioventricular block, overt cardiac failure, cardiogenic shock. ( 4.3 , 5.3 ) 4.1 Asthma, COPD Dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with bronchial asthma, a history of bronchial asthma, or severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 4.2 Sinus Bradycardia, AV Block, Cardiac Failure, Cardiogenic Shock Dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with sinus bradycardia, second or third degree atrioventricular block, overt cardiac failure, and cardiogenic shock [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] . 4.3 Hypersensitivity Dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] . (4.1) Sinus bradycardia, second or third degree atrioventricular block, overt cardiac failure, cardiogenic shock. (4.2) Hypersensitivity to any component of this product. (4.3, 5.3) 4.1 Asthma, COPD Dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with bronchial asthma, a history of bronchial asthma, or severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . 4.2 Sinus Bradycardia, AV Block, Cardiac Failure, Cardiogenic Shock Dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with sinus bradycardia, second or third degree atrioventricular block, overt cardiac failure, and cardiogenic shock [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] . 4.3 Hypersensitivity Dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] . CONTRAINDICATIONS Timolol maleate is contraindicated in patients with bronchial asthma or with a history of bronchial asthma, or severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (see WARNINGS); sinus bradycardia; second- and third-degree atrioventricular block; overt cardiac failure (see WARNINGS); cardiogenic shock; hypersensitivity to this product. ( 4.4 ) 4.1 Reactive Airway Disease Including Asthma, COPD Brimonidine tartrate and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with reactive airway disease including bronchial asthma; a history of bronchial asthma; severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.3)] . 4.2 Sinus Bradycardia, AV Block, Cardiac Failure, Cardiogenic Shock Brimonidine tartrate and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with sinus bradycardia; second or third degree atrioventricular block; overt cardiac failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] ; cardiogenic shock. 4.3 Neonates and Infants (Under the Age of 2 Years) Brimonidine tartrate and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in neonates and infants (under the age of 2 years). 4.4 Hypersensitivity Reactions Local hypersensitivity reactions have occurred following the use of different components of Brimonidine tartrate and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution. Brimonidine tartrate and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients who have exhibited a hypersensitivity reaction to any component of this medication in the past. CONTRAINDICATIONS Timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with (1) bronchial asthma; (2) a history of bronchial asthma; (3) severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease [see WARNINGS ]; (4) sinus bradycardia; (5) second or third degree atrioventricular block; (6) overt cardiac failure [see WARNINGS ]; (7) cardiogenic shock; or (8) hypersensitivity to any component of this product. CONTRAINDICATIONS Preservative-free timolol maleate ophthalmic solution USP in the unit dose vial is contraindicated in patients with (1) bronchial asthma; (2) a history of bronchial asthma; (3) severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (see WARNINGS ); (4) sinus bradycardia; (5) second or third degree atrioventricular block; (6) overt cardiac failure (see WARNINGS ); (7) cardiogenic shock; or (8) hypersensitivity to any component of this product.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Potential additive effect of oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitor with dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution. ( 7.1 ) Potential acid-base and electrolyte disturbances. ( 7.2 ) Concomitant use with systemic beta-blockers may potentiate systemic beta-blockade. ( 7.3 ) Oral or intravenous calcium antagonists may cause atrioventricular conduction disturbances, left ventricular failure, and hypotension. ( 7.4 ) Catecholamine-depleting drugs may have additive effects and produce hypotension and/or marked bradycardia. ( 7.5 ) Digitalis and calcium antagonists, may have additive effects in prolonging atrioventricular conduction time. ( 7.6 ) CYP2D6 inhibitors may potentiate systemic beta-blockade. ( 7.7 ) 7.1 Oral Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors There is a potential for an additive effect on the known systemic effects of carbonic anhydrase inhibition in patients receiving an oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitor and dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution. The concomitant administration of dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution and oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors is not recommended. 7.2 High-Dose Salicylate Therapy Although acid-base and electrolyte disturbances were not reported in the clinical trials with dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution, these disturbances have been reported with oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors and have, in some instances, resulted in drug interactions (e.g., toxicity associated with high-dose salicylate therapy). Therefore, the potential for such drug interactions should be considered in patients receiving dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution. 7.3 Beta-Adrenergic Blocking Agents Patients who are receiving a beta-adrenergic blocking agent orally and dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution should be observed for potential additive effects of beta-blockade, both systemic and on intraocular pressure. The concomitant use of two topical beta-adrenergic blocking agents is not recommended. 7.4 Calcium Antagonists Caution should be used in the coadministration of beta-adrenergic blocking agents, such as dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution, and oral or intravenous calcium antagonists because of possible atrioventricular conduction disturbances, left ventricular failure, and hypotension. In patients with impaired cardiac function, coadministration should be avoided. 7.5 Catecholamine-Depleting Drugs Close observation of the patient is recommended when a beta-blocker is administered to patients receiving catecholamine-depleting drugs, such as reserpine, because of possible additive effects and the production of hypotension and/or marked bradycardia, which may result in vertigo, syncope, or postural hypotension. 7.6 Digitalis and Calcium Antagonists The concomitant use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents with digitalis and calcium antagonists may have additive effects in prolonging atrioventricular conduction time. 7.7 CYP2D6 Inhibitors Potentiated systemic beta-blockade (e.g., decreased heart rate, depression) has been reported during combined treatment with CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., quinidine, SSRIs) and timolol. 7.8 Clonidine Oral beta-adrenergic blocking agents may exacerbate the rebound hypertension which can follow the withdrawal of clonidine. There have been no reports of exacerbation of rebound hypertension with ophthalmic timolol maleate. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antihypertensives/cardiac glycosides may lower blood pressure. ( 7.1 ) Concomitant use with systemic beta-blockers may potentiate systemic beta-blockade. ( 7.2 ) Oral or intravenous calcium antagonists may cause atrioventricular conduction disturbances, left ventricular failure, and hypotension. ( 7.3 ) Catecholamine-depleting drugs may have additive effects and produce hypotension and/or marked bradycardia. ( 7.4 ) Use with CNS depressants may result in an additive or potentiating effect. ( 7.5 ) Digitalis and calcium antagonists may have additive effects in prolonging atrioventricular conduction time. ( 7.7 ) Tricyclic antidepressants may potentially blunt the hypotensive effect of systemic clonidine. ( 7.8 ) Monoamine oxidase inhibitors may result in increased hypotension. ( 7.9 ) 7.1 Antihypertensives /Cardiac Glycosides Because brimonidine tartrate/timolol maleate ophthalmic solution may reduce blood pressure, caution in using drugs such as antihypertensives and/or cardiac glycosides with brimonidine tartrate/timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is advised. 7.2 Beta-adrenergic Blocking Agents Patients who are receiving a beta-adrenergic blocking agent either orally or intravenously and brimonidine tartrate/timolol maleate ophthalmic solution should be observed for potential additive effects of beta-blockade, both systemic and on intraocular pressure. 7.3 Calcium Antagonists Caution should be used in the co-administration of beta-adrenergic blocking agents, such as brimonidine tartrate/timolol maleate ophthalmic solution, and oral or intravenous calcium antagonists because of possible atrioventricular conduction disturbances, left ventricular failure, and hypotension. In patients with impaired cardiac function, co-administration should be avoided. 7.4 Catecholamine-depleting Drugs Close observation of the patient is recommended when a beta blocker is administered to patients receiving catecholamine-depleting drugs such as reserpine, because of possible additive effects and the production of hypotension and/or marked bradycardia, which may result in vertigo, syncope, or postural hypotension. 7.5 CNS Depressants Although specific drug interaction studies have not been conducted with brimonidine tartrate/timolol maleate ophthalmic solution, the possibility of an additive or potentiating effect with CNS depressants (alcohol, barbiturates, opiates, sedatives, or anesthetics) should be considered. 7.8 Tricyclic Antidepressants Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to blunt the hypotensive effect of systemic clonidine. It is not known whether the concurrent use of these agents with brimonidine tartrate/timolol maleate ophthalmic solution in humans can lead to resulting interference with the IOP-lowering effect. Caution, however, is advised in patients taking tricyclic antidepressants which can affect the metabolism and uptake of circulating amines. 7.9 Monoamine O xidase Inhibitors Monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors may theoretically interfere with the metabolism of brimonidine and potentially result in an increased systemic side effect such as hypotension. Caution, however, is advised in patients taking MAO inhibitors which can affect the metabolism and uptake of circulating amines. (7.1) Potential acid-base and electrolyte disturbances. (7.2) Concomitant use with systemic beta-blockers may potentiate systemic beta blockade. (7.3) Oral or intravenous calcium antagonists may cause atrioventricular conduction disturbances, left ventricular failure, and hypotension. (7.4) Catecholamine-depleting drugs may have additive effects and produce hypotension and/or marked bradycardia. (7.5) Digitalis and calcium antagonists, may have additive effects in prolonging atrioventricular conduction time. (7.6) CYP2D6 inhibitors may potentiate systemic beta-blockade. (7.7) 7.1 Oral Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors There is a potential for an additive effect on the known systemic effects of carbonic anhydrase inhibition in patients receiving an oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitor and dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution. The concomitant administration of dorzolamide hydrochloride-timolol maleate ophthalmic solution and oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors is not recommended. ( 7.4 ) Use with CNS depressants may result in an additive or potentiating effect.( 7.5 ) Digitalis and calcium antagonists may have additive effects in prolonging atrioventricular conduction time. ( 7.9 ) 7.1 Antihypertensives/Cardiac Glycosides Because Brimonidine tartrate and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution may reduce blood pressure, caution in using drugs such as antihypertensives and/or cardiac glycosides with Brimonidine tartrate and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution is advised. 7.2 Beta-adrenergic Blocking Agents Patients who are receiving a beta-adrenergic blocking agent either orally or intravenously and Brimonidine tartrate and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution should be observed for potential additive effects of beta-blockade, both systemic and on intraocular pressure. 7.3 Calcium Antagonists Caution should be used in the co-administration of beta-adrenergic blocking agents, such as Brimonidine tartrate and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution, and oral or intravenous calcium antagonists because of possible atrioventricular conduction disturbances, left ventricular failure, and hypotension. 7.5 CNS Depressants Although specific drug interaction studies have not been conducted with Brimonidine tartrate and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution, the possibility of an additive or potentiating effect with CNS depressants (alcohol, barbiturates, opiates, sedatives, or anesthetics) should be considered. It is not known whether the concurrent use of these agents with Brimonidine tartrate and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution in humans can lead to resulting interference with the IOP-lowering effect. 7.9 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors may theoretically interfere with the metabolism of brimonidine and potentially result in an increased systemic side effect such as hypotension. Drug Interactions Although timolol maleate ophthalmic solution USP used alone has little or no effect on pupil size, mydriasis resulting from concomitant therapy with timolol maleate ophthalmic solution USP and epinephrine has been reported occasionally. Beta-adrenergic blocking agents : Patients who are receiving a beta-adrenergic blocking agent orally and preservative-free timolol maleate ophthalmic solution USP in the unit dose vial should be observed for potential additive effects of beta-blockade, both systemic and on intraocular pressure. Calcium antagonists : Caution should be used in the coadministration of beta-adrenergic blocking agents, such as preservative-free timolol maleate ophthalmic solution USP in the unit dose vial, and oral or intravenous calcium antagonists, because of possible atrioventricular conduction disturbances, left ventricular failure, and hypotension. Catecholamine-depleting drugs : Close observation of the patient is recommended when a beta blocker is administered to patients receiving catecholamine-depleting drugs such as reserpine, because of possible additive effects and the production of hypotension and/or marked bradycardia, which may result in vertigo, syncope, or postural hypotension. Digitalis and calcium antagonists : The concomitant use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents with digitalis and calcium antagonists may have additive effects in prolonging atrioventricular conduction time. CYP2D6 inhibitors : Potentiated systemic beta-blockade (e.g., decreased heart rate, depression) has been reported during combined treatment with CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g., quinidine, SSRIs) and timolol. Clonidine : Oral beta-adrenergic blocking agents may exacerbate the rebound hypertension which can follow the withdrawal of clonidine. Injectable epinephrine : (See PRECAUTIONS, General, Anaphylaxis ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Potential additive effect of oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitor with dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution (7.1) Potential acid-base and electrolyte disturbances. (7.2) Concomitant use with systemic beta-blockers may potentiate systemic beta-blockade.

=== ASPIRIN AND CAFFEINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Pain reliever Pain reliever Pain reliever aid Purpose Pain reliever Pain reliever Pain reliver aid Purposes Aspirin (NSAID*) 1000 mg…………………………………......Pain reliever Caffeine 150 mg……………………………….…………………Alertness aid *nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug Purposes Pain reliever Pain reliever Pain reliever aid Purpose Pain reliever/fever reducer Purpose Pain reliever aid
Indications: Uses Temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: headache minor arthritis pain a cold backaches toothache muscular aches menstrual cramps Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: headache arthritis a cold toothache muscular aches premenstrual and menstrual cramps Use ■ treats migraine USE(S) treats migraine Uses Temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: hangover headache muscle aches Helps restore mental alertness when experiencing fatigue or drowsiness associated with a hangover INDICATIONS Butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules are indicated for the relief of the symptom complex of tension (or muscle contraction) headache. Evidence supporting the efficacy and safety of butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules in the treatment of multiple recurrent headaches is unavailable. Caution in this regard is required because butalbital is habit-forming and potentially abusable. Use treats migraine Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to: headache toothache menstrual cramps muscular aches minor arthritis pain colds temporarily reduces fever
Dosage: Directions do not take more than directed (see overdose warning) adults and children 12 years and over : open 1 pack, place powder on tongue every 6 hours, while symptoms persist. Drink a full glass of water with each dose or may stir powder into a glass of water or other liquid. do not take more than 4 packs in 24 hours unless directed by a doctor. children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor. Directions do not take more than directed drink a full glass of water with each dose adults and children 12 years and over: take 2 caplets every 6 hours. Do not take more than 8 caplets in 24 hours. children under 12 years: ask a doctor Directions ■ do not use more than directed ■ adults: take 2 caplets with a glass of water ■ if symptoms persist or worsen, ask your doctor ■ do not take more than 2 caplets in 24 hours, unless directed by a doctor ■ under 18 years of age: ask a doctor DIRECTIONS • do not use more than directed • adults: take 2 caplets with a glass of water • if symptoms persist or worsen, ask your doctor • do not take more than 2 caplets in 24 hours, unless directed by a doctor • under 18 years of age: ask a doctor Directions • Adults and children 12 years and over: open 1 pack, place powder on tongue every 6 hours, while symptoms persist. Drink a full glass of water or other liquid. •Do not take more than 4 powders in 24 hours unless directed by a doctor. • Children under 12 years: ask a doctor. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One or 2 capsules every 4 hours. Total daily dose should not exceed 6 capsules. Extended and repeated use of this product is not recommended because of the potential for physical dependence. Directions do not use more than directed adults: take 2 tablets with a glass of water if symptoms persist or worsen, ask your doctor do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours, unless directed by a doctor under 18 years of age: ask a doctor Directions adults and children 12 years of age and over: place 1 powder on tongue every 6 hours, while symptoms persist. Drink a full glass of water with each dose, or may stir powder into a glass of water or other liquid. do not take more than 4 powders in 24 hours unless directed by a doctor. children under 12 years of age: ask a doctor.
Warnings: Warnings Reye’s syndrome: Children and teenagers who have or are recovering from chicken pox or flu-like symptoms should not use this product. When using this product, if changes in behavior with nausea and vomiting occur, consult a doctor because these symptoms could be an early sign of Reye’s syndrome, a rare but serious illness. Allergy alert: Aspirin may cause severe allergic reaction which may include: hives facial swelling asthma (wheezing) shock. Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash. If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Liver warning: This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 4 packs in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Stomach bleeding warning: This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug take other drugs containing prescription or non-prescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product take more or for a longer time than directed Caffeine warning: This product contains caffeine. Limit the use of caffeine-containing medications, foods, or beverages while taking this product because too much caffeine may cause nervousness, irritability, sleeplessness, and, occasionally, rapid heartbeat. Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to aspirin or any other pain reliever/fever reducer with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen, ask a doctor or pharmacist. Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease stomach bleeding warning applies to you you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, or kidney disease you are taking a diuretic you have asthma Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug for diabetes, gout, or arthritis Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction occurs. Seek medical help right away. you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: feel faint vomit blood have bloody or black stools have stomach pain that does not get better pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present any new symptoms appear ringing in the ears or a loss of hearing occurs These could be signs of a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. It is especially important not to use aspirin at 20 weeks or later in pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery. Keep out of reach of children. Overdose warning: Taking more than the recommended dose can cause serious health problems. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. Prompt medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. When using this product, if changes in behavior with nausea and vomiting occur, consult a doctor because these symptoms could be an early sign of Reye's syndrome, a rare but serious illness. Allergy alert: Aspirin may cause a severe allergic reaction which may include: shock facial swelling hives asthma (wheezing) Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: skin reddening blisters rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Severe liver damage may occur if you take more than 4,000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours with other drugs containing acetaminophen 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Stomach bleeding warning: This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product take more or for a longer time than directed Caffeine warning: The recommended dose of this product contains about as much caffeine as a cup of coffee. Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever/fever reducer with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease you have asthma stomach bleeding warning applies to you you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn you are taking a diuretic you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, or kidney disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug for diabetes, gout, or arthritis Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction occurs. you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: feel faint vomit blood have bloody or black stools have stomach pain that does not get better ringing in the ears or loss of hearing occurs pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days redness or swelling is present any new symptoms appear If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings Reye's syndrome Children and teenagers who have or are recovering from chicken pox or flu-like symptoms should not use this product. Allergy alert Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: ■ skin reddening ■ blisters ■ rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Allergy alert Aspirin may cause a severe allergic reaction which may include: ■ hives ■ facial swelling ■ asthma (wheezing) ■ shock Liver warning This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take ■ more than 2 caplets in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount ■ with other drugs containing acetaminophen ■ 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Stomach bleeding warning This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you ■ are age 60 or older ■ have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems ■ take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug ■ take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) ■ have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product ■ take more or for a longer time than directed Medication overuse headache warning Headaches may worsen if this product is used for 10 or more days per month. Caffeine warning The recommended dose of this product contains about as much caffeine as a cup of coffee. Do not use ■ if you have ever had an allergic reaction to acetaminophen, aspirin or any other pain reliever/fever reducer ■ with any other drug containing acetaminophen (prescription or nonprescription). If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen, ask a doctor or pharmacist Ask a doctor before use if ■ you have never had migraines diagnosed by a health professional ■ you have a headache that is different from your usual migraines ■ you have the worst headache of your life ■ you have fever and stiff neck ■ you have headaches beginning after or caused by head injury, exertion, coughing or bending ■ you experienced your first headache after the age of 50 ■ you have daily headaches ■ you have a migraine so severe as to require bed rest ■ you have liver disease ■ stomach bleeding warning applies to you ■ you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn ■ you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, or kidney disease ■ you are taking a diuretic ■ you have asthma ■ you have problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers ■ you have vomiting with your migraine headache Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are ■ taking a prescription drug for: ■ diabetes ■ gout ■ arthritis ■ under a doctor’s care for any serious condition ■ taking any other drug ■ taking any other product that contains aspirin, acetaminophen, or any other pain reliever/fever reducer Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ an allergic reaction occurs. ■ you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding: ■ feel faint ■ vomit blood ■ have bloody or black stools ■ have stomach pain that does not get better ■ your migraine is not relieved or worsens after first dose ■ new or unexpected symptoms occur ■ ringing in the ears or loss of hearing occurs If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a health professional before use. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away (1-800-222-1222). Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms. Allergy alert : Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: • skin reddening • blisters • rash If a skin reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away. Allergy alert: Aspirin may cause a severe allergic reaction which may include: • hives • facial swelling • asthma (wheezing) • shock Liver warning: This product contains acetaminophen. Severe liver damage may occur if you take • more than 2 caplets in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount • with other drugs containing acetaminophen • 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Stomach bleeding warning: This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you • are age 60 or older • have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems • take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug • take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) • have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product • take more or for a longer time than directed Medication overuse headache warning: Headaches may worsen if this product is used for 10 or more days per month Caffeine warning: The recommended dose of this product contains about as much caffeine as a cup of coffee. Limit the use of caffeine-containing medications, foods, or beverages while taking this product because too much caffeine may cause nervousness, irritability, sleeplessness, and, occasionally, rapid heart beat. Allergy Alert: Aspirin may cause severe allergic reaction which may include: • hives • facial swelling • shock • asthma (wheezing). Stomach bleeding warning: This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you • are age 60 or older • have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems • take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug • take other drugs containing prescription or non-prescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) • have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product • take more or for a longer time than directed. Caffeine warning: The recommended dose of this product contains about as much caffeine as a cup of coffee. Do not use ▪ for more than 2 days for a hangover unless directed by a doctor. Not intended for use as a substitute for sleep. If fatigue or drowsiness persists or continues to recur, consult a doctor. ▪ if you have ever had an allergic reaction to aspirin or any other pain reliever/fever reducer ▪ in children under 12 years of age Ask a doctor before use if • stomach bleeding warning applies to you • you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn • you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, or kidney disease • you are taking a diuretic • you have asthma Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug for ▪ diabetes ▪ gout ▪ arthritis Stop use and ask a doctor if • an allergic reaction occurs. Seek medical help right away • you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding •feel faint • vomit blood • have bloody or black stool • have stomach pain that does not get better • any new symptoms appear • ringing in the ears or a loss of hearing occurs These could be signs of a serious condition. If pregnant or breast-feeding , ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children . WARNINGS Therapeutic doses of aspirin can cause anaphylactic shock and other severe allergic reactions. It should be ascertained if the patient is allergic to aspirin, although a specific history of allergy may be lacking. Significant bleeding can result from aspirin therapy in patients with peptic ulcer or other gastrointestinal lesions, and in patients with bleeding disorders. Aspirin administered preoperatively may prolong the bleeding time. Butalbital is habit-forming and potentially abusable. Consequently, the extended use of butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules is not recommended. Results from epidemiologic studies indicate an association between aspirin and Reye's Syndrome. Caution should be used in administering this product to children, including teenagers, with chicken pox or flu. Fetal Toxicity Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus Avoid use of NSAIDs, including butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules, in pregnant women at about 30 weeks gestation and later. NSAIDs including butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules, increase the risk of premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus at approximately this gestational age. Oligohydramnios/Neonatal Renal Impairment Use of NSAIDs, including butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules, at about 20 weeks gestation or later in pregnancy may cause fetal renal dysfunction leading to oligohydramnios and, in some cases, neonatal renal impairment. These adverse outcomes are seen, on average, after days to weeks of treatment, although oligohydramnios has been infrequently reported as soon as 48 hours after NSAID initiation. Oligohydramnios is often, but not always, reversible with treatment discontinuation. Complications of prolonged oligohydramnios may, for example, include limb contractures and delayed lung maturation. In some post-marketing cases of impaired neonatal renal function, invasive procedures such as exchange transfusion or dialysis were required. If NSAID treatment is necessary between about 20 weeks and 30 weeks gestation, limit butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules use to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration possible. Consider ultrasound monitoring of amniotic fluid if butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules treatment extends beyond 48 hours. Discontinue butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules if oligohydramnios occurs and follow up according to clinical practice [ see PRECAUTIONS; Pregnancy ]. Serious Skin Reactions NSAIDs, including aspirin, a component of butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules, can cause serious skin adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. NSAIDs can also cause fixed drug eruption (FDE). FDE may present as a more severe variant known as generalized bullous fixed drug eruption (GBFDE), which can be life-threatening. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions, and to discontinue the use of butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules are contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs [ see CONTRAINDICATIONS ]. Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) has been reported in patients taking NSAIDs such as butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules. Some of these events have been fatal or life-threatening. DRESS typically, although not exclusively, presents with fever, rash, lymphadenopathy, and/or facial swelling. Other clinical manifestations may include hepatitis, nephritis, hematological abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis. Sometimes symptoms of DRESS may resemble an acute viral infection. Eosinophilia is often present. Because this disorder is variable in its presentation, other organ systems not noted here may be involved. It is important to note that early manifestations of hypersensitivity, such as fever or lymphadenopathy, may be present even though rash is not evident. If such signs or symptoms are present, discontinue butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules and evaluate the patient immediately. Allergy alert: Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions. Symptoms may include: • skin reddening • blisters • rash. Allergy alert: Aspirin may cause a severe allergic reaction which may include: • hives • facial swelling • asthma (wheezing) • shock. Severe liver damage may occur if you take • more than 2 tablets in 24 hours, which is the maximum daily amount • with other drugs containing acetaminophen • 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product. The chance is higher if you • are age 60 or older • have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems • take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug • take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) • have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product • take more or for a longer time than directed Medication overuse headache warning: Headaches may worsen if this product is used for 10 or more days per month. Warnings Reye’s syndrome : Children and teenagers who have or are recovering from chicken pox or flu-like symptoms should not use this product. Allergy alert : Aspirin may cause a severe allergic reaction which may include: hives facial swelling shock asthma (wheezing) Stomach bleeding warning : This product contains an NSAID, which may cause severe stomach bleeding. The chance is higher if you are age 60 or older have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems take a blood thinning (anticoagulant) or steroid drug take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, or others) have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product take more or for a longer time than directed Caffeine warning: The recommended dose of this product contains about as much caffeine as a cup o coffee. Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to aspirin or any other pain reliever/fever reducer Ask a doctor before use if stomach bleeding warning applies to you you have a history of stomach problems, such as heartburn you have high blood pressure, heart disease, liver cirrhosis, or kidney disease you are taking a diuretic you have asthma Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug for diabetes, gout, or arthritis When using this product limit the use of caffeine-containing drugs, foods, or drinks because too much caffeine may cause nervousness, irritability, sleeplessness, and, occasionally, rapid heart beat. The recommended dose of this product contains about as much caffeine as a cup of coffee. Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction occurs. If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health care professional before use. It is especially important not to use aspirin during the last 3 months of pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules are contraindicated under the following conditions: • Hypersensitivity or intolerance to aspirin, caffeine, or butalbital. • Patients with a hemorrhagic diathesis (e.g., hemophilia, hypoprothrombinemia, von Willebrand's disease, the thrombocytopenias, thrombasthenia and other ill-defined hereditary platelet dysfunctions, severe vitamin K deficiency and severe liver damage). • Patients with the syndrome of nasal polyps, angioedema and bronchospastic reactivity to aspirin or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in such patients. • Peptic ulcer or other serious gastrointestinal lesions. • Patients with porphyria.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions The CNS effects of butalbital may be enhanced by monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors. In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of aspirin, withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance. Butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules may enhance the effects of: • Oral anticoagulants, causing bleeding by inhibiting prothrombin formation in the liver and displacing anticoagulants from plasma protein binding sites. • Oral antidiabetic agents and insulin, causing hypoglycemia by contributing an additive effect, if dosage of butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules exceeds maximum recommended daily dosage. • 6-mercaptopurine and methotrexate, causing bone marrow toxicity and blood dyscrasias by displacing these drugs from secondary binding sites, and, in the case of methotrexate, also reducing its excretion. • Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, increasing the risk of peptic ulceration and bleeding by contributing additive effects. • Other narcotic analgesics, alcohol, general anesthetics, tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide, sedative-hypnotics, or other CNS depressants, causing increased CNS depression. Butalbital, aspirin, and caffeine capsules may diminish the effects of: Uricosuric agents such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone, reducing their effectiveness in the treatment of gout. Aspirin competes with these agents for protein binding sites.

=== ANASTROZOLE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Anastrozole is an aromatase inhibitor indicated for: Adjuvant treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive early breast cancer ( 1.1 ) First-line treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive or hormone receptor unknown locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer ( 1.2 ) Treatment of advanced breast cancer in postmenopausal women with disease progression following tamoxifen therapy. Patients with ER-negative disease and patients who did not respond to previous tamoxifen therapy rarely responded to anastrozole ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Adjuvant Treatment Anastrozole tablets are indicated for adjuvant treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive early breast cancer. 1.2 First-Line Treatment Anastrozole tablets are indicated for the first-line treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive or hormone receptor unknown locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. 1.3 Second-Line Treatment Anastrozole tablets are indicated for the treatment of advanced breast cancer in postmenopausal women with disease progression following tamoxifen therapy. Patients with ER-negative disease and patients who did not respond to previous tamoxifen therapy rarely responded to anastrozole tablets. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Anastrozole tablets are an aromatase inhibitor indicated for: Adjuvant treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive early breast cancer ( 1.1 ) First-line treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive or hormone receptor unknown locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer ( 1.2 ) Treatment of advanced breast cancer in postmenopausal women with disease progression following tamoxifen therapy. Patients with ER-negative disease and patients who did not respond to previous tamoxifen therapy rarely responded to anastrozole tablets ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Adjuvant Treatment Anastrozole tablets are indicated for adjuvant treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive early breast cancer. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Anastrozole is an aromatase inhibitor indicated for: • Adjuvant treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive early breast cancer ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. ) • First-line treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive or hormone receptor unknown locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer ( Error! ) • Treatment of advanced breast cancer in postmenopausal women with disease progression following tamoxifen therapy. Patients with ER-negative disease and patients who did not respond to previous tamoxifen therapy rarely responded to Anastrozole ( Error! ) 1.1 Adjuvant Treatment Anastrozole is indicated for adjuvant treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive early breast cancer. 1.2 First-Line Treatment Anastrozole is indicated for the first-line treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive or hormone receptor unknown locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. 1.3 Second-Line Treatment Anastrozole is indicated for the treatment of advanced breast cancer in postmenopausal women with disease progression following tamoxifen therapy. Patients with ER-negative disease and patients who did not respond to previous tamoxifen therapy rarely responded to anastrozole. 1. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Anastrozole is an aromatase inhibitor indicated for: Adjuvant treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive early breast cancer ( 1.1 ) First-line treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive or hormone receptor unknown locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer ( 1.2 ) Treatment of advanced breast cancer in postmenopausal women with disease progression following tamoxifen therapy.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One 1 mg tablet taken once daily ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Recommended Dose The dose of anastrozole tablet is one 1 mg tablet taken once a day. For patients with advanced breast cancer, anastrozole tablets should be continued until tumor progression. Anastrozole tablets can be taken with or without food. For adjuvant treatment of early breast cancer in postmenopausal women, the optimal duration of therapy is unknown. In the ATAC trial, anastrozole was administered for five years [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with renal impairment or for elderly patients [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 )]. 2.2 Patients with Hepatic Impairment No changes in dose are recommended for patients with mild-to-moderate hepatic impairment. Anastrozole has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One 1 mg tablet taken once daily ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Recommended Dose The dose of anastrozole tablets are one 1 mg tablet taken once a day. In the ATAC trial, anastrozole tablets were administered for five years [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with renal impairment or for elderly patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. Anastrozole tablets have not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) ]. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One 1 mg tablet taken once daily ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Recommended Dose The dose of anastrozole is one 1 mg tablet taken once a day. For patients with advanced breast cancer, anastrozole tablets should be continued until tumor progression.Anastrozole tablets can be taken with or without food. In the ATAC trial, anastrozole was administered for five years [see Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. ]. No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with renal impairment or for elderly patients [see Error! Anastrozole tablets have not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Error! 2. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One 1 mg tablet taken once daily ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Recommended Dose The dose of anastrozole tablet is one 1 mg tablet taken once a day. For patients with advanced breast cancer, anastrozole tablet should be continued until tumor progression. In the ATAC trial anastrozole tablets were administered for five years [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. Anastrozole tablet has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 )].
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity Anastrozole is contraindicated in any patient who has shown a hypersensitivity reaction to the drug or to any of the excipients. Observed reactions include anaphylaxis, angioedema, and urticaria [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )]. Patients with demonstrated hypersensitivity to anastrozole or any excipient ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients with demonstrated hypersensitivity to anastrozole tablets or any excipient ( 4 ) Hypersensitivity Anastrozole tablets are contraindicated in any patient who has shown a hypersensitivity reaction to the drug or to any of the excipients. Observed reactions include anaphylaxis, angioedema, and urticaria [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Patients with demonstrated hypersensitivity to anastrozole tablets or any excipient ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. ) Hypersensitivity Anastrozole is contraindicated in any patient who has shown a hypersensitivity reaction to the drug or to any of the excipients. Observed reactions include anaphylaxis, angioedema, and urticaria [see Error! ]. 4. CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients with demonstrated hypersensitivity to anastrozole or any excipient (4) Hypersensitivity Anastrozole tablets are contraindicated in any patient who has shown a hypersensitivity reaction to the drug or to any of the excipients. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Women of premenopausal endocrine status, including pregnant women ( 4.1 , 8.1 ) Patients with demonstrated hypersensitivity to anastrozole or any excipient ( 4.2 ) 4.1 Pregnancy and Premenopausal Women Anastrozole may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman and offers no clinical benefit to premenopausal women with breast cancer. Anastrozole is contraindicated in women who are or may become pregnant. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women using anastrozole. If anastrozole is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus or potential risk for loss of the pregnancy [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.1 )]. 4.2 Hypersensitivity Anastrozole is contraindicated in any patient who has shown a hypersensitivity reaction to the drug or to any of the excipients.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Tamoxifen: Do not use in combination with anastrozole. No additional benefit seen over tamoxifen monotherapy ( 7.1 , 14.1 ). Estrogen-containing products: Combination use may diminish activity of anastrozole ( 7.2 ). 7.1 Tamoxifen Co-administration of anastrozole and tamoxifen in breast cancer patients reduced anastrozole plasma concentration by 27%. However, the co-administration of anastrozole and tamoxifen did not affect the pharmacokinetics of tamoxifen or N-desmethyltamoxifen. At a median follow-up of 33 months, the combination of anastrozole and tamoxifen did not demonstrate any efficacy benefit when compared with tamoxifen in all patients as well as in the hormone receptor-positive subpopulation. This treatment arm was discontinued from the trial. [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Based on clinical and pharmacokinetic results from the ATAC trial, tamoxifen should not be administered with anastrozole. 7.2 Estrogen Estrogen-containing therapies should not be used with anastrozole as they may diminish its pharmacological action. 7.3 Warfarin In a study conducted in 16 male volunteers, anastrozole did not alter the exposure (as measured by C max and AUC), and anticoagulant activity (as measured by prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, and thrombin time) of both R- and S-warfarin. 7.4 Cytochrome P450 Based on in vitro and in vivo results, it is unlikely that co-administration of anastrozole 1 mg will affect other drugs as a result of inhibition of cytochrome P450 [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Tamoxifen: Do not use in combination with anastrozole tablets. No additional benefit seen over tamoxifen monotherapy ( 7.1 , 14.1 ) Estrogen-containing products: Combination use may diminish activity of anastrozole tablets ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Tamoxifen Co-administration of anastrozole and tamoxifen in breast cancer patients reduced anastrozole plasma concentration by 27%. At a median follow-up of 33 months, the combination of anastrozole tablets and tamoxifen did not demonstrate any efficacy benefit when compared with tamoxifen in all patients as well as in the hormone receptor-positive subpopulation. This treatment arm was discontinued from the trial [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 7.2 Estrogen Estrogen-containing therapies should not be used with anastrozole tablets as they may diminish its pharmacological action. 7.3 Warfarin In a study conducted in 16 male volunteers, anastrozole did not alter the exposure (as measured by C max and AUC) and anticoagulant activity (as measured by prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, and thrombin time) of both R- and S-warfarin. 7.4 Cytochrome P450 Based on in vitro and in vivo results, it is unlikely that co-administration of anastrozole tablets 1 mg will affect other drugs as a result of inhibition of cytochrome P450 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Tamoxifen: Do not use in combination with anastrozole tablets. No additional benefit seen over tamoxifen monotherapy. ( Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. , Error! ) • Estrogen-containing products: Combination use may diminish activity of Anastrozole Tablets. ) 7.1 Tamoxifen Co-administration of anastrozole and tamoxifen in breast cancer patients reduced anastrozole plasma concentration by 27%. This treatment arm was discontinued from the trial [ see Error! ]. 7.3 Warfarin In a study conducted in 16 male volunteers, anastrozole did not alter the exposure (as measured by Cmax and AUC) and anticoagulant activity (as measured by prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, and thrombin time) of both R- and S-warfarin. 7.4 Cytochrome P450 Based on in vitro and in vivo results, it is unlikely that co-administration of anastrozole 1 mg will affect other drugs as a result of inhibition of cytochrome P450 [see Error! 7. DRUG INTERACTIONS Tamoxifen: Do not use in combination with anastrozole. ( 7.1 , 14.1 ). However, the coadministration of anastrozole and tamoxifen did not affect the pharmacokinetics of tamoxifen or N-desmethyltamoxifen. This treatment arm was discontinued from the trial [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. 7.4 Cytochrome P450 Based on in vitro and in vivo results, it is unlikely that co-administration of anastrozole tablets 1 mg will affect other drugs as a result of inhibition of cytochrome P450 [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )].

=== BENZALKONIUM CHLORIDE 0.13% ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Antibacterial Purpose First Aid Antiseptic
Indications: Uses For washing to decrease bacteria on the skin Use for handwashing to decrease bacteria on the skin First Aid to help prevent infection in minor cuts, scrapes, and burns.
Dosage: Directions Wet hands. Apply palmful to hands. Scrub thoroughly. Rinse thoroughly. Directions Apply to a body sponge on damp skin, rub into a rich lather all over the body, then rinse thoroughly. Directions wet hands apply palmful to hands scrub thoroughly rinse thoroughly Directions Clean affected area and spray 1 to 3 times daily May be covered wiht a sterile bandage Not to be used on children under 12 years of age
Warnings: Warnings For External Use only. When using this product avoid contact with eyes. If contact occurs, rinse eyes thoroughly with water. Stop use and ask a doctor irritation or redness develops - condition persists for more than 72 hours. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Warnings For external use only: hands only Warnings For External Use Only Flammable. Keep away from fire or flame. Warnings For external use only: hands only When using this product avoid contact with the eyes. Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation and redness develops condition persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away.

=== BISOPROLOL FUMARATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bisoprolol fumarate tablets are indicated in the management of hypertension. It may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. INDICATIONS & USAGE Bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated in the management of hypertension. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bisoprolol fumarate is indicated in the management of hypertension. They may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated in the management of hypertension.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of bisoprolol fumarate tablets must be individualized to the needs of the patient. The usual starting dose is 5 mg once daily. In some patients, 2.5 mg may be an appropriate starting dose (see Bronchospastic Disease in WARNINGS ). If the antihypertensive effect of 5 mg is inadequate, the dose may be increased to 10 mg and then, if necessary, to 20 mg once daily. Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment In patients with hepatic impairment (hepatitis or cirrhosis) or renal dysfunction (creatinine clearance less than 40 mL/min), the initial daily dose should be 2.5 mg and caution should be used in dose-titration. Since limited data suggest that bisoprolol fumarate is not dialyzable, drug replacement is not necessary in patients undergoing dialysis. Geriatric Patients It is not necessary to adjust the dose in the elderly, unless there is also significant renal or hepatic dysfunction (see above and Geriatric Use in PRECAUTIONS ). Pediatric Patients There is no pediatric experience with bisoprolol fumarate tablets. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Bisoprolol is an effective treatment of hypertension in once-daily doses of 2.5 to 40 mg, while hydrochlorothiazide is effective in doses of 12.5 to 50 mg. In clinical trials of bisoprolol/hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy using bisoprolol doses of 2.5 to 20 mg and hydrochlorothiazide doses of 6.25 to 25 mg, the antihypertensive effects increased with increasing doses of either component. The adverse effects (see WARNINGS ) of bisoprolol are a mixture of dose-dependent phenomena (primarily bradycardia, diarrhea, asthenia, and fatigue) and dose-independent phenomena (eg, occasional rash); those of hydrochlorothiazide are a mixture of dose-dependent phenomena (primarily hypokalemia) and dose-independent phenomena (eg, possibly pancreatitis); the dose- dependent phenomena for each being much more common than the dose-independent phenomena. The latter consist of those few that are truly idiosyncratic in nature or those that occur with such low frequency that a dose relationship may be difficult to discern. Therapy with a combination of bisoprolol and hydrochlorothiazide will be associated with both sets of dose- independent adverse effects, and to minimize these, it may be appropriate to begin combination therapy only after a patient has failed to achieve the desired effect with monotherapy. On the other hand, regimens that combine low doses of bisoprolol and hydrochlorothiazide should produce minimal dose-dependent adverse effects, eg, bradycardia, diarrhea, asthenia and fatigue, and minimal dose-dependent adverse metabolic effects, ie, decreases in serum potassium (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Therapy Guided by Clinical Effect A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with 2.5-20 mg bisoprolol daily may instead be given bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Patients whose blood pressures are adequately controlled with 50 mg of hydrochlorothiazide daily, but who experience significant potassium loss with this regimen, may achieve similar blood pressure control without electrolyte disturbance if they are switched to bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Initial Therapy Antihypertensive therapy may be initiated with the lowest dose of bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, one 2.5/6.25 mg tablet once daily. Subsequent titration (14 day intervals) may be carried out with bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets up to the maximum recommended dose 20/12.5 mg (two 10/6.25 mg tablets) once daily, as appropriate. Replacement Therapy The combination may be substituted for the titrated individual components. Cessation of Therapy If withdrawal of bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets therapy is planned, it should be achieved gradually over a period of about 2 weeks. Patients should be carefully observed. Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment: As noted in the WARNINGS section, caution must be used in dosing/titrating patients with hepatic impairment or renal dysfunction. Since there is no indication that hydrochlorothiazide is dialyzable, and limited data suggest that bisoprolol is not dialyzable, drug replacement is not necessary in patients undergoing dialysis. Geriatric Patients: Dosage adjustment on the basis of age is not usually necessary, unless there is also significant renal or hepatic dysfunction (see above and WARNINGS section). Pediatric Patients: There is no pediatric experience with bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of bisoprolol fumarate must be individualized to the needs of the patient. In some patients, 2.5 mg may be an appropriate starting dose ( see Bronchospastic Disease in WARNINGS ). Geriatric Patients It is not necessary to adjust the dose in the elderly, unless there is also significant renal or hepatic dysfunction ( see above and Geriatric Use in PRECAUTIONS ). Pediatric Patients There is no pediatric experience with bisoprolol fumarate. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Bisoprolol is an effective treatment of hypertension in once-daily doses of 2.5 to 40 mg, while hydrochlorothiazide is effective in doses of 12.5 to 50 mg. The adverse effects (see WARNINGS ) of bisoprolol are a mixture of dose-dependent phenomena (primarily bradycardia, diarrhea, asthenia, and fatigue) and dose-independent phenomena (eg, occasional rash); those of hydrochlorothiazide are a mixture of dose-dependent phenomena (primarily hypokalemia) and dose-independent phenomena (eg, possibly pancreatitis); the dose-dependent phenomena for each being much more common than the dose-independent phenomena. Therapy with a combination of bisoprolol and hydrochlorothiazide will be associated with both sets of dose-independent adverse effects, and to minimize these, it may be appropriate to begin combination therapy only after a patient has failed to achieve the desired effect with monotherapy. Subsequent titration (14-day intervals) may be carried out with bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets up to the maximum recommended dose 20/12.5 mg (two 10/6.25 mg tablets) once daily, as appropriate. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Bisoprolol is an effective treatment of hypertension in once-daily doses of 2.5 mg to 40 mg, while hydrochlorothiazide is effective in doses of 12.5 mg to 50 mg. In clinical trials of bisoprolol/hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy using bisoprolol doses of 2.5 mg to 20 mg and hydrochlorothiazide doses of 6.25 mg to 25 mg, the antihypertensive effects increased with increasing doses of either component. Therapy Guided by Clinical Effect A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with 2.5 mg to 20 mg bisoprolol daily may instead be given bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Initial Therapy Antihypertensive therapy may be initiated with the lowest dose of bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, one 2.5 mg/6.25 mg tablet once daily. Subsequent titration (14-day intervals) may be carried out with bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets up to the maximum recommended dose 20 mg/12.5 mg (two 10 mg/6.25 mg tablets) once daily, as appropriate.
Warnings: WARNINGS Click here to enter Warnings Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation is a vital component supporting circulatory function in the setting of congestive heart failure, and beta-blockade may result in further depression of myocardial contractility and precipitate more severe failure. In general, beta-blocking agents should be avoided in patients with overt congestive failure. However, in some patients with compensated cardiac failure it may be necessary to utilize them. In such a situation, they must be used cautiously. In Patients Without a History of Cardiac Failure Continued depression of the myocardium with beta-blockers can, in some patients, precipitate cardiac failure. At the first signs or symptoms of heart failure, discontinuation of bisoprolol fumarate tablets should be considered. In some cases, beta-blocker therapy can be continued while heart failure is treated with other drugs. Abrupt Cessation of Therapy Exacerbation of angina pectoris, and, in some instances, myocardial infarction or ventricular arrhythmia, have been observed in patients with coronary artery disease following abrupt cessation of therapy with beta-blockers. Such patients should, therefore, be cautioned against interruption or discontinuation of therapy without the physician’s advice. Even in patients without overt coronary artery disease, it may be advisable to taper therapy with bisoprolol fumarate tablets over approximately one week with the patient under careful observation. If withdrawal symptoms occur, bisoprolol fumarate tablets therapy should be reinstituted, at least temporarily. Peripheral Vascular Disease Beta-blockers can precipitate or aggravate symptoms of arterial insufficiency in patients with peripheral vascular disease. Caution should be exercised in such individuals. Bronchospastic Disease PATIENTS WITH BRONCHOSPASTIC DISEASE SHOULD, IN GENERAL, NOT RECEIVE BETA-BLOCKERS. Because of its relative beta 1 -selectivity, however, bisoprolol fumarate tablets may be used with caution in patients with bronchospastic disease who do not respond to, or who cannot tolerate other antihypertensive treatment. Since beta 1 -selectivity is not absolute, the lowest possible dose of bisoprolol fumarate tablets should be used, with therapy starting at 2.5 mg. A beta 2 agonist (bronchodilator) should be made available. Major Surgery Chronically administered beta-blocking therapy should not be routinely withdrawn prior to major surgery; however, the impaired ability of the heart to respond to reflex adrenergic stimuli may augment the risks of general anesthesia and surgical procedures. Diabetes and Hypoglycemia Beta-blockers may mask some of the manifestations of hypoglycemia, particularly tachycardia. Nonselective beta-blockers may potentiate insulin-induced hypoglycemia and delay recovery of serum glucose levels. Because of its beta 1 -selectivity, this is less likely with bisoprolol fumarate tablets. However, patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycemia, or diabetic patients receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents, should be cautioned about these possibilities and bisoprolol fumarate should be used with caution. Thyrotoxicosis Beta-adrenergic blockade may mask clinical signs of hyperthyroidism, such as tachycardia. Abrupt withdrawal of beta-blockade may be followed by an exacerbation of the symptoms of hyperthyroidism or may precipitate thyroid storm. WARNINGS Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation is a vital component supporting circulatory function in the setting of congestive heart failure, and beta-blockade may result in further depression of myocardial contractility and precipitate more severe failure. At the first signs or symptoms of heart failure, discontinuation of bisoprolol fumarate should be considered. Such patients should, therefore, be cautioned against interruption or discontinuation of therapy without the physician's advice. Even in patients without overt coronary artery disease, it may be advisable to taper therapy with bisoprolol fumarate over approximately one week with the patient under careful observation. If withdrawal symptoms occur, bisoprolol fumarate therapy should be reinstituted, at least temporarily. Because of its relative beta 1 -selectivity, however, bisoprolol fumarate may be used with caution in patients with bronchospastic disease who do not respond to, or who cannot tolerate other antihypertensive treatment. Since beta 1 -selectivity is not absolute, the lowest possible dose of bisoprolol fumarate should be used, with therapy starting at 2.5 mg. Because of its beta 1 -selectivity, this is less likely with bisoprolol fumarate. WARNINGS Cardiac Failure In general, beta-blocking agents should be avoided in patients with overt congestive failure. However, in some patients with compensated cardiac failure, it may be necessary to utilize these agents. In such situations, they must be used cautiously. Patients Without a History of Cardiac Failure Continued depression of the myocardium with beta-blockers can, in some patients, precipitate cardiac failure. At the first signs or symptoms of heart failure, discontinuation of bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be considered. In some cases bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide tablet therapy can be continued while heart failure is treated with other drugs. Abrupt Cessation of Therapy Exacerbations of angina pectoris and, in some instances, myocardial infarction or ventricular arrhythmia, have been observed in patients with coronary artery disease following abrupt cessation of therapy with beta-blockers. Even in patients without overt coronary artery disease, it may be advisable to taper therapy with bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets over approximately 1 week with the patient under careful observation. If withdrawal symptoms occur, beta-blocking agent therapy should be reinstituted, at least temporarily. Bronchospastic Disease PATIENTS WITH BRONCHOSPASTIC PULMONARY DISEASE SHOULD, IN GENERAL, NOT RECEIVE BETA-BLOCKERS. Because of the relative beta 1 -selectivity of bisoprolol fumarate, bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be used with caution in patients with bronchospastic disease who do not respond to, or who cannot tolerate other antihypertensive treatment. Since beta 1 -selectivity is not absolute, the lowest possible dose of bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be used. Hypoglycemia Beta-blockers may prevent early warning signs of hypoglycemia, such as tachycardia, and increase the risk for severe or prolonged hypoglycemia at any time during treatment, especially in patients with diabetes mellitus or children and patients who are fasting (i.e., surgery, not eating regularly, or are vomiting). If severe hypoglycemia occurs, patients should be instructed to seek emergency treatment. Also, latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest and diabetic patients given thiazides may require adjustment of their insulin dose. Renal Disease Cumulative effects of the thiazides may develop in patients with impaired renal function. In such patients, thiazides may precipitate azotemia. In subjects with creatinine clearance less than 40 mL/min, the plasma half-life of bisoprolol fumarate is increased up to threefold, as compared to healthy subjects. If progressive renal impairment becomes apparent, bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be discontinued (See Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism ). Hepatic Disease Bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease. Thiazides may alter fluid and electrolyte balance, which may precipitate hepatic coma. Also, elimination of bisoprolol fumarate is significantly slower in patients with cirrhosis than in healthy subjects (See Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism ). Acute Angle-Closure Glaucoma with or without Acute Myopia and Choroidal Effusions Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute angle-closure glaucoma and elevated intraocular pressure with or without a noticeable acute myopic shift and/or choroidal effusions. Symptoms may include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated, the acute angle-closure glaucoma may result in permanent visual field loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy. Major Surgery Chronically administered beta-blocking therapy should not be routinely withdrawn prior to major surgery; however, the impaired ability of the heart to respond to reflex adrenergic stimuli may augment the risk of general anesthesia and surgical procedures. Such patients should, therefore, be cautioned against interruption or discontinuation of therapy without the physician‘s advice. In some cases bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets therapy can be continued while heart failure is treated with other drugs. At the first signs or symptoms of heart failure, discontinuation of bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide should be considered. In some cases bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide therapy can be continued while heart failure is treated with other drugs. Even in patients without overt coronary artery disease, it may be advisable to taper therapy with bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide over approximately 1 week with the patient under careful observation. Because of the relative beta 1 -selectivity of bisoprolol fumarate, bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide may be used with caution in patients with bronchospastic disease who do not respond to, or who cannot tolerate other antihypertensive treatment. Since beta 1 -selectivity is not absolute, the lowest possible dose of bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide should be used. If progressive renal impairment becomes apparent, bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide should be discontinued (See Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism). Hepatic Disease Bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease. Also, elimination of bisoprolol fumarate is significantly slower in patients with cirrhosis than in healthy subjects (See Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Bisoprolol fumarate tablets are contraindicated in patients with cardiogenic shock, overt cardiac failure, second or third degree AV block, and marked sinus bradycardia. CONTRAINDICATIONS Bisoprolol fumarate is contraindicated in patients with cardiogenic shock, overt cardiac failure, second or third degree AV block, and marked sinus bradycardia. CONTRAINDICATIONS Bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in patients in cardiogenic shock, overt cardiac failure (see WARNINGS ), second or third degree AV block, marked sinus bradycardia, anuria, and hypersensitivity to either component of this product or to other sulfonamide-derived drugs.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may potentiate the action of other antihypertensive agents used concomitantly. Bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should not be combined with other beta-blocking agents. Patients receiving catecholamine-depleting drugs, such as reserpine or guanethidine, should be closely monitored because the added beta-adrenergic blocking action of bisoprolol fumarate may produce excessive reduction of sympathetic activity. In patients receiving concurrent therapy with clonidine, if therapy is to be discontinued, it is suggested that bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets be discontinued for several days before the withdrawal of clonidine. Bisoprolol fumarate and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be used with caution when myocardial depressants or inhibitors of AV conduction, such as certain calcium antagonists (particularly of the phenylalkylamine [verapamil] and benzothiazepine [diltiazem] classes), or antiarrhythmic agents, such as disopyramide, are used concurrently. Both digitalis glycosides and beta-blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate. Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia.

=== BORTEZOMIB ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bortezomib for injection is a proteasome inhibitor indicated for: • treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma ( 1.1 ) • treatment of adult patients with mantle cell lymphoma ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Multiple Myeloma Bortezomib for injection is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma. 1.2 Mantle Cell Lymphoma Bortezomib for injection is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with mantle cell lymphoma. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bortezomib for Injection is a proteasome inhibitor indicated for: treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma ( 1.1 ) treatment of adult patients with mantle cell lymphoma ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Multiple Myeloma Bortezomib for Injection is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE VELCADE is a proteasome inhibitor indicated for: treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma ( 1.1 ) treatment of adult patients with mantle cell lymphoma ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Multiple Myeloma VELCADE is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma. 1.2 Mantle Cell Lymphoma VELCADE is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with mantle cell lymphoma. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bortezomib for injection is a proteasome inhibitor indicated for: treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma ( 1.1 ) treatment of adult patients with mantle cell lymphoma ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Multiple Myeloma Bortezomib for injection , 3.5 mg/vial is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bortezomib for injection is a proteasome inhibitor indicated for: • Treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma. ( 1.1 ) • Treatment of adult patients with mantle cell lymphoma. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Multiple Myeloma Bortezomib for injection is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For subcutaneous or intravenous use only. Each route of administration has a different reconstituted concentration. Exercise caution when calculating the volume to be administered. ( 2.1 , 2.10 ) • The recommended starting dose of bortezomib for injection is 1.3 mg/m 2 administered either as a 3 to 5 second bolus intravenous injection or subcutaneous injection. ( 2.2 , 2.4 , 2.6 ) • Retreatment for Multiple Myeloma: May retreat starting at the last tolerated dose. ( 2.6 ) • Hepatic Impairment: Use a lower starting dose for patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment. ( 2.8 ) • Dose must be individualized to prevent overdose. ( 2.10 ) 2.1 Important Dosing Guidelines Bortezomib for injection is for intravenous or subcutaneous use only. Do not administer bortezomib for injection by any other route. Because each route of administration has a different reconstituted concentration, use caution when calculating the volume to be administered. The recommended starting dose of bortezomib for injection is 1.3 mg/m 2 . Bortezomib for injection is administered intravenously at a concentration of 1 mg/mL, or subcutaneously at a concentration of 2.5 mg/mL [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.10 )]. Bortezomib for injection retreatment may be considered for patients with multiple myeloma who had previously responded to treatment with bortezomib for injection and who have relapsed at least six months after completing prior bortezomib for injection treatment. Treatment may be started at the last tolerated dose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )]. When administered intravenously, administer bortezomib for injection as a 3 to 5 second bolus intravenous injection. 2.2 Dosage in Previously Untreated Multiple Myeloma Bortezomib for injection is administered in combination with oral melphalan and oral prednisone for 9, six week treatment cycles as shown in Table 1 . In Cycles 1 to 4, bortezomib for injection is administered twice weekly (Days 1, 4, 8, 11, 22, 25, 29 and 32). In Cycles 5 to 9, bortezomib for injection is administered once weekly (Days 1, 8, 22 and 29). At least 72 hours should elapse between consecutive doses of bortezomib for injection. Table 1: Dosage Regimen for Patients with Previously Untreated Multiple Myeloma Twice Weekly Bortezomib for Injection (Cycles 1 to 4) Week 1 2 3 4 5 6 Bortezomib for injection (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 4 Day 8 Day 11 rest period Day 22 Day 25 Day 29 Day 32 rest period Melphalan (9 mg/m 2 ) Prednisone (60 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 -- -- rest period -- -- -- -- rest period Once Weekly Bortezomib for Injection (Cycles 5 to 9 when used in combination with Melphalan and Prednisone) Week 1 2 3 4 5 6 Bortezomib for injection (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 8 rest period Day 22 Day 29 rest period Melphalan (9 mg/m 2 ) Prednisone (60 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 -- -- rest period -- -- -- -- rest period 2.3 Dose Modification Guidelines for Bortezomib for Injection When Given in Combination with Melphalan and Prednisone Prior to initiating any cycle of therapy with bortezomib for injection in combination with melphalan and prednisone: • Platelet count should be at least 70 x 10 9 /L and the absolute neutrophil count (ANC) should be at least 1 x 10 9 /L • Nonhematological toxicities should have resolved to Grade 1 or baseline Table 2: Dose Modifications During Cycles of Combination Bortezomib for Injection, Melphalan and Prednisone Therapy Toxicity Dose Moidification or Delay Hematological toxicity during a cycle: If prolonged Grade 4 neutropenia or thrombocytopenia, or thrombocytopenia with bleeding is observed in the previous cycle Consider reduction of the melphalan dose by 25% in the next cycle If platelet count is not above 30 x 10 9 /L or ANC is not above 0.75 x 10 9 /L on a bortezomib for injection dosing day (other than Day 1) Withhold bortezomib for injection dose If several bortezomib for injection doses in consecutive cycles are withheld due to toxicity Reduce bortezomib for injection dose by one dose level (from 1.3 mg/m 2 to 1 mg/m 2 , or from 1 mg/m 2 to 0.7 mg/m 2 ) Grade 3 or higher nonhematological toxicities Withhold bortezomib for injection therapy until symptoms of toxicity have resolved to Grade 1 or baseline. Then, bortezomib for injection may be reinitiated with one dose level reduction (from 1.3 mg/m 2 to 1 mg/m 2 , or from 1 mg/m 2 to 0.7 mg/m 2 ). For bortezomib for injection-related neuropathic pain and/or peripheral neuropathy, hold or modify bortezomib for injection as outlined in Table 5 . For information concerning melphalan and prednisone, see manufacturer's prescribing information. Dose modifications guidelines for peripheral neuropathy are provided [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 )]. 2.4 Dosage in Previously Untreated Mantle Cell Lymphoma Bortezomib for injection (1.3 mg/m 2 ) is administered intravenously in combination with intravenous rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and oral prednisone (VcR-CAP) for 6, three week treatment cycles as shown in Table 3 . Bortezomib for injection is administered first followed by rituximab. Bortezomib for injection is administered twice weekly for two weeks (Days 1, 4, 8, and 11) followed by a ten day rest period on Days 12 to 21. For patients with a response first documented at Cycle 6, two additional VcR-CAP cycles are recommended. Table 3: Dosage Regimen for Patients with Previously Untreated Mantle Cell Lymphoma Twice Weekly Bortezomib for Injection (6, Three Week Cycles) * Week 1 2 3 Bortezomib for injection (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 4 -- Day 8 Day 11 rest period Rituximab (375 mg/m 2 ) Cyclophosphamide (750 mg/m 2 ) Doxorubicin (50 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- -- rest period Prednisone (100 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 Day 5 -- -- rest period * Dosing may continue for two more cycles (for a total of eight cycles) if response is first seen at Cycle 6. 2.5 Dose Modification Guidelines for Bortezomib for Injection When Given in Combination with Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin and Prednisone Prior to the first day of each cycle (other than Cycle 1): • Platelet count should be at least 100 x 10 9 /L and absolute neutrophil count (ANC) should be at least 1.5 x 10 9 /L • Hemoglobin should be at least 8 g/dL (at least 4.96 mmol/L) • Nonhematologic toxicity should have recovered to Grade 1 or baseline Interrupt bortezomib for injection treatment at the onset of any Grade 3 hematologic or nonhematological toxicities, excluding neuropathy [see Table 5, Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )]. For dose adjustments, see Table 4 below. Table 4: Dose Modifications on Days 4, 8, and 11 During Cycles of Combination Bortezomib for Injection, Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin and Prednisone Therapy Toxicity Dose Modification or Delay Hematological Toxicity Grade 3 or higher neutropenia, or a platelet count not at or above 25 × 10 9 /L Withhold bortezomib for injection therapy for up to 2 weeks until the patient has an ANC at or above 0.75 × 10 9 /L and a platelet count at or above 25 × 10 9 /L. • If, after bortezomib for injection has been withheld, the toxicity does not resolve, discontinue bortezomib for injection. • If toxicity resolves such that the patient has an ANC at or above 0.75 × 10 9 /L and a platelet count at or above 25 × 10 9 /L, bortezomib for injection dose should be reduced by 1 dose level (from 1.3 mg/m 2 to 1 mg/m 2 , or from 1 mg/m 2 to 0.7 mg/m 2 ). Grade 3 or higher nonhematological toxicities Withhold bortezomib for injection therapy until symptoms of the toxicity have resolved to Grade 2 or better. For information concerning rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and prednisone, see manufacturer's prescribing information. 2.6 Dosage and Dose Modifications for Relapsed Multiple Myeloma and Relapsed Mantle Cell Lymphoma Bortezomib for injection (1.3 mg/m 2 /dose) is administered twice weekly for two weeks (Days 1, 4, 8, and 11) followed by a ten day rest period (Days 12 to 21). For extended therapy of more than eight cycles, bortezomib for injection may be administered on the standard schedule or, for relapsed multiple myeloma, on a maintenance schedule of once weekly for four weeks (Days 1, 8, 15, and 22) followed by a 13 day rest period (Days 23 to 35) [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )]. Patients with multiple myeloma who have previously responded to treatment with bortezomib for injection (either alone or in combination) and who have relapsed at least six months after their prior bortezomib for injection therapy may be started on bortezomib for injection at the last tolerated dose. Retreated patients are administered bortezomib for injection twice weekly (Days 1, 4, 8, and 11) every three weeks for a maximum of eight cycles. Bortezomib for injection may be administered either as a single agent or in combination with dexamethasone [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. Bortezomib for injection therapy should be withheld at the onset of any Grade 3 nonhematological or Grade 4 hematological toxicities excluding neuropathy as discussed below [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )]. Once the symptoms of the toxicity have resolved, bortezomib for injection therapy may be reinitiated at a 25% reduced dose (1.3 mg/m 2 /dose reduced to 1 mg/m 2 /dose; 1 mg/m 2 /dose reduced to 0.7 mg/m 2 /dose). For dose modifications guidelines for peripheral neuropathy, see section 2.7. 2.7 Dose Modifications for Peripheral Neuropathy Starting bortezomib for injection subcutaneously may be considered for patients with pre-existing or at high risk of peripheral neuropathy. Patients with preexisting severe neuropathy should be treated with bortezomib for injection only after careful risk-benefit assessment. Patients experiencing new or worsening peripheral neuropathy during bortezomib for injection therapy may require a decrease in the dose and/or a less doseintense schedule. For dose or schedule modification guidelines for patients who experience bortezomib for injection-related neuropathic pain and/or peripheral neuropathy, see Table 5. Table 5: Recommended Dose Modification for Bortezomib for Injection-Related Neuropathic Pain and/or Peripheral Sensory or Motor Neuropathy Severity of Peripheral Neuropathy Signs and Symptoms* Modification of Dose and Regimen Grade 1 (asymptomatic; loss of deep tendon reflexes or paresthesia) without pain or loss of function No action Grade 1 with pain or Grade 2 (moderate symptoms; limiting instrumental Activities of Daily Living (ADL) † ) Reduce bortezomib for injection to 1 mg/m 2 Grade 2 with pain or Grade 3 (severe symptoms; limiting self care ADL ‡ ) Withhold bortezomib for injection therapy until toxicity resolves. When toxicity resolves reinitiate with a reduced dose of bortezomib for injection at 0.7 mg/m 2 once per week. Grade 4 (life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated) Discontinue bortezomib for injection * Grading based on NCI Common Terminology Criteria CTCAE v4.0 † Instrumental ADL: refers to preparing meals, shopping for groceries or clothes, using telephone, managing money, etc. ‡ Self care ADL: refers to bathing, dressing and undressing, feeding self, using the toilet, taking medications, and not bedridden 2.8 Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Do not adjust the starting dose for patients with mild hepatic impairment. Start patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment at a reduced dose of 0.7 mg/m 2 per injection during the first cycle, and consider subsequent dose escalation to 1 mg/m 2 or further dose reduction to 0.5 mg/m 2 based on patient tolerance (see Table 6) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. Table 6: Recommended Starting Dose Modification for Bortezomib for Injection in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Bilirubin Level SGOT (AST) Levels Modification of Starting Dose Mild Less than or equal to 1x ULN More than ULN None More than 1x to 1.5x ULN Any None Moderate More than 1.5x to 3x ULN Any Reduce bortezomib for injection to 0.7 mg/m 2 in the first cycle. Consider dose escalation to 1 mg/m 2 or further dose reduction to 0.5 mg/m 2 in subsequent cycles based on patient tolerability. Severe More than 3x ULN Any Abbreviations: SGOT = serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase; AST = aspartate aminotransferase; ULN = upper limit of the normal range. 2.9 Administration Precautions The drug quantity contained in one vial (3.5 mg) may exceed the usual dose required. Caution should be used in calculating the dose to prevent overdose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.10 )]. When administered subcutaneously, sites for each injection (thigh or abdomen) should be rotated. New injections should be given at least one inch from an old site and never into areas where the site is tender, bruised, erythematous, or indurated. If local injection site reactions occur following bortezomib for injection administration subcutaneously, a less concentrated bortezomib for injection solution (1 mg/mL instead of 2.5 mg/mL) may be administered subcutaneously [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.10 )] . Alternatively, consider use of the intravenous route of administration [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.10 )] . Bortezomib for injection is a hazardous drug. Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures. 1 2.10 Reconstitution/Preparation for Intravenous and Subcutaneous Administration Use proper aseptic technique. Reconstitute only with 0.9% sodium chloride. The reconstituted product should be a clear and colorless solution. Different volumes of 0.9% sodium chloride are used to reconstitute the product for the different routes of administration. The reconstituted concentration of bortezomib for subcutaneous administration (2.5 mg/mL) is greater than the reconstituted concentration of bortezomib for intravenous administration (1 mg/mL). Because each route of administration has a different reconstituted concentration, use caution when calculating the volume to be administered [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.9 )]. For each 3.5 mg single-dose vial of bortezomib, reconstitute with the following volume of 0.9% sodium chloride based on route of administration (Table 7): Table 7: Reconstitution Volumes and Final Concentration for Intravenous and Subcutaneous Administration Route of Administration Bortezomib (mg/vial) Diluent (0.9% Sodium Chloride) Final Bortezomib Concentration (mg/mL) Intravenous 3.5 mg 3.5 mL 1 mg/mL Subcutaneous 3.5 mg 1.4 mL 2.5 mg/mL Dose must be individualized to prevent overdosage. After determining patient body surface area (BSA) in square meters, use the following equations to calculate the total volume (mL) of reconstituted bortezomib for injection to be administered: · Intravenous Administration [1 mg/mL concentration] Bortezomib for injection dose (mg/m 2 ) x patient BSA (m 2 ) = Total bortezomib for injection volume (mL) to be administered 1 mg/mL · S ubcutaneous Administration [2.5 mg/mL concentration] Bortezomib for injection dose (mg/m 2 ) x patient BSA (m 2 ) = Total bortezomib for injection volume (mL) to be administered 2.5 mg/mL Stickers that indicate the route of administration are provided with each bortezomib for injection vial. These stickers should be placed directly on the syringe of bortezomib for injection once bortezomib for injection is prepared to help alert practitioners of the correct route of administration for bortezomib for injection. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit. If any discoloration or particulate matter is observed, the reconstituted product should not be used. Stability Unopened vials of bortezomib for injection are stable until the date indicated on the package when stored in the original package protected from light. Bortezomib for Injection contains no antimicrobial preservative. Administer reconstituted bortezomib for injection within eight hours of preparation. When reconstituted as directed, bortezomib for injection may be stored at 25ºC (77ºF). The reconstituted material may be stored in the original vial and/or the syringe prior to administration. The product may be stored for up to eight hours in a syringe; however, total storage time for the reconstituted material must not exceed eight hours when exposed to normal indoor lighting. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For subcutaneous or intravenous use only. ( 2.1 , 2.10 ) The recommended starting dose of Bortezomib is 1.3 mg/m 2 administered either as a 3 to 5 second bolus intravenous injection or subcutaneous injection. ( 2.2 , 2.4 , 2.6 ) Retreatment for Multiple Myeloma: May retreat starting at the last tolerated dose. ( 2.6 ) Hepatic Impairment: Use a lower starting dose for patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment. ( 2.8 ) Dose must be individualized to prevent overdose. ( 2.10 ) 2.1 Important Dosing Guidelines Bortezomib is for intravenous or subcutaneous use only. Do not administer bortezomib by any other route. The recommended starting dose of bortezomib is 1.3 mg/m 2 . Bortezomib is administered intravenously at a concentration of 1 mg/mL, or subcutaneously at a concentration of 2.5 mg/mL [see Dosage and Administration (2.10) ]. Bortezomib retreatment may be considered for patients with multiple myeloma who had previously responded to treatment with bortezomib and who have relapsed at least six months after completing prior bortezomib treatment. Treatment may be started at the last tolerated dose [see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] . When administered intravenously, administer bortezomib as a 3 to 5 second bolus intravenous injection. 2.2 Dosage in Previously Untreated Multiple Myeloma Bortezomib is administered in combination with oral melphalan and oral prednisone for 9, six week treatment cycles as shown in Table 1. In Cycles 1 to 4, bortezomib is administered twice weekly (Days 1, 4, 8, 11, 22, 25, 29 and 32). In Cycles 5 to 9, bortezomib is administered once weekly (Days 1, 8, 22 and 29). At least 72 hours should elapse between consecutive doses of bortezomib. Table 1: Dosage Regimen for Patients with Previously Untreated Multiple Myeloma Twice Weekly Bortezomib (Cycles 1 to 4) Week 1 2 3 4 5 6 Bortezomib (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 4 Day 8 Day 11 rest period Day 22 Day 25 Day 29 Day 32 rest period Melphalan (9 mg/m 2 ) Prednisone (60 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 -- -- rest period -- -- -- -- rest period Once Weekly Bortezomib (Cycles 5 to 9 when used in combination with Melphalan and Prednisone) Week 1 2 3 4 5 6 Bortezomib (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 8 rest period Day 22 Day 29 rest period Melphalan (9 mg/m 2 ) Prednisone (60 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 -- -- rest period -- -- -- -- rest period 2.3 Dose Modification Guidelines for Bortezomib When Given in Combination with Melphalan and Prednisone Prior to initiating any cycle of therapy with bortezomib in combination with melphalan and prednisone: Platelet count should be at least 70 x 10 9 /L and the absolute neutrophil count (ANC) should be at least 1 x 10 9 /L Nonhematological toxicities should have resolved to Grade 1 or baseline Table 2: Dose Modifications During Cycles of Combination Bortezomib, Melphalan and Prednisone Therapy Toxicity Dose Modification or Delay Hematological toxicity during a cycle: If prolonged Grade 4 neutropenia or thrombocytopenia, or thrombocytopenia with bleeding is observed in the previous cycle Consider reduction of the melphalan dose by 25% in the next cycle If platelet count is not above 30 x 10 9 /L or ANC is not above 0.75 x 10 9 /L on a bortezomib dosing day (other than Day 1) Withhold bortezomib dose If several bortezomib doses in consecutive cycles are withheld due to toxicity Reduce bortezomib dose by one dose level (from 1.3 mg/m 2 to 1 mg/m 2 , or from 1 mg/m 2 to 0.7 mg/m 2 ) Grade 3 or higher nonhematological toxicities Withhold bortezomib therapy until symptoms of toxicity have resolved to Grade 1 or baseline. Then, bortezomib may be reinitiated with one dose level reduction (from 1.3 mg/m 2 to 1 mg/m 2 , or from 1 mg/m 2 to 0.7 mg/m 2 ). For bortezomib-related neuropathic pain and/or peripheral neuropathy, hold or modify bortezomib as outlined in Table 5. Dose modifications guidelines for peripheral neuropathy are provided [see Dosage and Administration (2.7) ] . 2.4 Dosage in Previously Untreated Mantle Cell Lymphoma Bortezomib (1.3 mg/m 2 ) is administered intravenously in combination with intravenous rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and oral prednisone (VcR-CAP) for 6, three week treatment cycles as shown in Table 3. Bortezomib is administered first followed by rituximab. Bortezomib is administered twice weekly for two weeks (Days 1, 4, 8, and 11) followed by a ten day rest period on Days 12 to 21. Table 3: Dosage Regimen for Patients with Previously Untreated Mantle Cell Lymphoma * Dosing may continue for two more cycles (for a total of eight cycles) if response is first seen at Cycle 6. Twice Weekly Bortezomib (6, Three Week Cycles)* Week 1 2 3 Bortezomib (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 4 -- Day 8 Day 11 rest period Rituximab (375 mg/m 2 ) Cyclophosphamide (750 mg/m 2 ) Doxorubicin (50 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- -- -- rest period Prednisone (100 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 Day 5 -- -- rest period 2.5 Dose Modification Guidelines for Bortezomib When Given in Combination with Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin and Prednisone Prior to the first day of each cycle (other than Cycle 1): Platelet count should be at least 100 x 10 9 /L and absolute neutrophil count (ANC) should be at least 1.5 x 10 9 /L Hemoglobin should be at least 8 g/dL (at least 4.96 mmol/L) Nonhematologic toxicity should have recovered to Grade 1 or baseline Interrupt bortezomib treatment at the onset of any Grade 3 hematologic or nonhematological toxicities, excluding neuropathy [see Table 5 , Warnings and Precautions (5) ] . Table 4: Dose Modifications on Days 4, 8, and 11 During Cycles of Combination Bortezomib, Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin and Prednisone Therapy Toxicity Dose Modification or Delay Hematological Toxicity Grade 3 or higher neutropenia, or a platelet count not at or above 25 x 10 9 /L Withhold bortezomib therapy for up to 2 weeks until the patient has an ANC at or above 0.75 x 10 9 /L and a platelet count at or above 25 x 10 9 /L. If, after bortezomib has been withheld, the toxicity does not resolve, discontinue bortezomib. If toxicity resolves such that the patient has an ANC at or above 0.75 x 10 9 /L and a platelet count at or above 25 x 10 9 /L, bortezomib dose should be reduced by 1 dose level (from 1.3 mg/m 2 to 1 mg/m 2 , or from 1 mg/m 2 to 0.7 mg/m 2 ). Grade 3 or higher nonhematological toxicities Withhold bortezomib therapy until symptoms of the toxicity have resolved to Grade 2 or better. 2.6 Dosage and Dose Modifications for Relapsed Multiple Myeloma and Relapsed Mantle Cell Lymphoma Bortezomib (1.3 mg/m 2 /dose) is administered twice weekly for two weeks (Days 1, 4, 8, and 11) followed by a ten day rest period (Days 12 to 21). For extended therapy of more than eight cycles, bortezomib may be administered on the standard schedule or, for relapsed multiple myeloma, on a maintenance schedule of once weekly for four weeks (Days 1, 8, 15, and 22) followed by a 13 day rest period (Days 23 to 35) [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . Patients with multiple myeloma who have previously responded to treatment with bortezomib (either alone or in combination) and who have relapsed at least six months after their prior bortezomib therapy may be started on bortezomib at the last tolerated dose. Retreated patients are administered bortezomib twice weekly (Days 1, 4, 8, and 11) every three weeks for a maximum of eight cycles. Bortezomib may be administered either as a single agent or in combination with dexamethasone [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Bortezomib therapy should be withheld at the onset of any Grade 3 nonhematological or Grade 4 hematological toxicities excluding neuropathy as discussed below [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ] . Once the symptoms of the toxicity have resolved, bortezomib therapy may be reinitiated at a 25% reduced dose (1.3 mg/m 2 /dose reduced to 1 mg/m 2 /dose; 1 mg/m 2 /dose reduced to 0.7 mg/m 2 /dose). For dose modifications guidelines for peripheral neuropathy, see section 2.7 . 2.7 Dose Modifications for Peripheral Neuropathy Starting bortezomib subcutaneously may be considered for patients with preexisting or at high risk of peripheral neuropathy. Patients with preexisting severe neuropathy should be treated with bortezomib only after careful risk-benefit assessment. Patients experiencing new or worsening peripheral neuropathy during bortezomib therapy may require a decrease in the dose and/or a less dose-intense schedule. For dose or schedule modification guidelines for patients who experience bortezomib-related neuropathic pain and/or peripheral neuropathy, see Table 5 . Table 5: Recommended Dose Modification for Bortezomib-Related Neuropathic Pain and/or Peripheral Sensory or Motor Neuropathy * Grading based on NCI Common Terminology Criteria CTCAE v4.0 † Instrumental ADL: refers to preparing meals, shopping for groceries or clothes, using telephone, managing money, etc. ‡ Self care ADL: refers to bathing, dressing and undressing, feeding self, using the toilet, taking medications, and not bedridden Severity of Peripheral Neuropathy Signs and Symptoms * Modification of Dose and Regimen Grade 1 (asymptomatic; loss of deep tendon reflexes or paresthesia) without pain or loss of function No action Grade 1 with pain or Grade 2 (moderate symptoms; limiting instrumental Activities of Daily Living (ADL) † ) Reduce bortezomib to 1 mg/m 2 Grade 2 with pain or Grade 3 (severe symptoms; limiting self care ADL ‡ ) Withhold bortezomib therapy until toxicity resolves. When toxicity resolves reinitiate with a reduced dose of bortezomib at 0.7 mg/m 2 once per week. Grade 4 (life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated) Discontinue bortezomib 2.8 Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Do not adjust the starting dose for patients with mild hepatic impairment. Start patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment at a reduced dose of 0.7 mg/m 2 per injection during the first cycle, and consider subsequent dose escalation to 1 mg/m 2 or further dose reduction to 0.5 mg/m 2 based on patient tolerance (see Table 6 ) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . Table 6: Recommended Starting Dose Modification for Bortezomib in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Abbreviations: SGOT = serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase; AST = aspartate aminotransferase; ULN = upper limit of the normal range. Bilirubin Level SGOT (AST) Levels Modification of Starting Dose Mild Less than or equal to 1x ULN More than ULN None More than 1x to 1.5x ULN Any None Moderate More than 1.5x to 3x ULN Any Reduce bortezomib to 0.7 mg/m 2 in the first cycle. Severe More than 3x ULN Any 2.9 Administration Precautions The drug quantity contained in one vial (3.5 mg) may exceed the usual dose required. Caution should be used in calculating the dose to prevent overdose [see Dosage and Administration (2.10) ] . If local injection site reactions occur following bortezomib administration subcutaneously, a less concentrated bortezomib solution (1 mg/mL instead of 2.5 mg/mL) may be administered subcutaneously [see Dosage and Administration (2.10) ] . Alternatively, consider use of the intravenous route of administration [see Dosage and Administration (2.10) ] . Bortezomib is a hazardous drug. Reconstitute only with 0.9% sodium chloride . Because each route of administration has a different reconstituted concentration, use caution when calculating the volume to be administered [see Dosage and Administration (2.9) ] . For each 3.5 mg single-dose vial of bortezomib, reconstitute with the following volume of 0.9% sodium chloride based on route of administration (Table 7) : Table 7: Reconstitution Volumes and Final Concentration for Intravenous and Subcutaneous Administration Route of Administration Bortezomib (mg/vial) Diluent (0.9% Sodium Chloride) Final Bortezomib Concentration (mg/mL) Intravenous 3.5 mg 3.5 mL 1 mg/mL Subcutaneous 3.5 mg 1.4 mL 2.5 mg/mL Dose must be individualized to prevent overdosage. After determining patient body surface area (BSA) in square meters, use the following equations to calculate the total volume (mL) of reconstituted bortezomib to be administered: Intravenous Administration [1 mg/mL concentration ] Bortezomib dose (mg/m 2 ) x patient BSA (m 2 ) = Total bortezomib volume (mL) to be administered 1 mg/mL Subcutaneous Administration [2.5 mg/mL concentration] Bortezomib dose (mg/m 2 ) x patient BSA (m 2 ) = Total bortezomib volume (mL) to be administered 2.5 mg/mL Stickers that indicate the route of administration are provided with each bortezomib vial. These stickers should be placed directly on the syringe of bortezomib once bortezomib is prepared to help alert practitioners of the correct route of administration for bortezomib. When reconstituted as directed, bortezomib for injection may be stored at 25°C (77°F). ( 2.1 , 2.10 ) The recommended starting dose of Bortezomib for Injection is 1.3 mg/m 2 administered either as a 3 to 5 second bolus intravenous injection or subcutaneous injection. Bortezomib for Injection is administered intravenously at a concentration of 1 mg/mL, or subcutaneously at a concentration of 2.5 mg/mL [see Dosage and Administration (2.10) ] . Table 1: Dosage Regimen for Patients with Previously Untreated Multiple Myeloma Twice Weekly Bortezomib for Injection (Cycles 1 to 4) Week 1 2 3 4 5 6 Bortezomib for Injection (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 4 Day 8 Day 11 rest period Day 22 Day 25 Day 29 Day 32 rest period Melphalan (9 mg/m 2 ) Prednisone (60 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 -- -- rest period -- -- -- -- rest period Once Weekly Bortezomib for Injection (Cycles 5 to 9 when used in combination with Melphalan and Prednisone) Week 1 2 3 4 5 6 Bortezomib for Injection (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 8 rest period Day 22 Day 29 rest period Melphalan (9 mg/m 2 ) Prednisone (60 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 -- -- rest period -- -- -- -- rest period 2.3 Dose Modification Guidelines for Bortezomib for Injection When Given in Combination with Melphalan and Prednisone Prior to initiating any cycle of therapy with Bortezomib for Injection in combination with melphalan and prednisone: Platelet count should be at least 70 × 10 9 /L and the absolute neutrophil count (ANC) should be at least 1 × 10 9 /L Nonhematological toxicities should have resolved to Grade 1 or baseline Table 2: Dose Modifications During Cycles of Combination Bortezomib for Injection, Melphalan and Prednisone Therapy Toxicity Dose Modification or Delay Hematological toxicity during a cycle: If prolonged Grade 4 neutropenia or thrombocytopenia, or thrombocytopenia with bleeding is observed in the previous cycle Consider reduction of the melphalan dose by 25% in the next cycle If platelet count is not above 30 × 10 9 /L or ANC is not above 0.75 × 10 9 /L on a Bortezomib for Injection dosing day (other than Day 1) Withhold Bortezomib for Injection dose If several Bortezomib for Injection doses in consecutive cycles are withheld due to toxicity Reduce Bortezomib for Injection dose by one dose level (from 1.3 mg/m 2 to 1 mg/m 2 , or from 1 mg/m 2 to 0.7 mg/m 2 ) Grade 3 or higher nonhematological toxicities Withhold Bortezomib for Injection therapy until symptoms of toxicity have resolved to Grade 1 or baseline. Table 3: Dosage Regimen for Patients with Previously Untreated Mantle Cell Lymphoma Twice Weekly Bortezomib for Injection (6, Three Week Cycles) Dosing may continue for two more cycles (for a total of eight cycles) if response is first seen at Cycle 6. Week 1 2 3 Bortezomib for Injection (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 4 -- Day 8 Day 11 rest period Rituximab (375 mg/m 2 ) Cyclophosphamide (750 mg/m 2 ) Doxorubicin (50 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- -- -- rest period Prednisone (100 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 Day 5 -- -- rest period 2.5 Dose Modification Guidelines for Bortezomib for Injection When Given in Combination with Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin and Prednisone Prior to the first day of each cycle (other than Cycle 1): Platelet count should be at least 100 × 10 9 /L and absolute neutrophil count (ANC) should be at least 1.5 × 10 9 /L Hemoglobin should be at least 8 g/dL (at least 4.96 mmol/L) Nonhematologic toxicity should have recovered to Grade 1 or baseline Interrupt Bortezomib for Injection treatment at the onset of any Grade 3 hematologic or nonhematological toxicities, excluding neuropathy [see Table 5, Warnings and Precautions (5) ] . If, after Bortezomib for injection has been withheld, the toxicity does not resolve, discontinue bortezomib for injection. If toxicity resolves such that the patient has an ANC at or above 0.75 x 10 9 /L and a platelet count at or above 25 x 10 9 /L, bortezomib for injection dose should be reduced by 1 dose level (from 1.3 mg/m 3 to 1 mg/m 3 , or from 1mg/m 3 to 0.7mg/m 2 ) Grade 3 or higher nonhematological toxicities Withhold Bortezomib for Injection therapy until symptoms of the toxicity have resolved to Grade 2 or better. For extended therapy of more than eight cycles, Bortezomib for Injection may be administered on the standard schedule or, for relapsed multiple myeloma, on a maintenance schedule of once weekly for four weeks (Days 1, 8, 15, and 22) followed by a 13 day rest period (Days 23 to 35) [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . Bortezomib for Injection may be administered either as a single agent or in combination with dexamethasone [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . Bortezomib for Injection therapy should be withheld at the onset of any Grade 3 nonhematological or Grade 4 hematological toxicities excluding neuropathy as discussed below [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ] . Patients with pre-existing severe neuropathy should be treated with Bortezomib for Injection only after careful risk-benefit assessment. Patients experiencing new or worsening peripheral neuropathy during Bortezomib for Injection therapy may require a decrease in the dose and/or a less dose-intense schedule. For dose or schedule modification guidelines for patients who experience Bortezomib for Injection-related neuropathic pain and/or peripheral neuropathy, see Table 5 . Table 5: Recommended Dose Modification for Bortezomib for Injection-Related Neuropathic Pain and/or Peripheral Sensory or Motor Neuropathy Severity of Peripheral Neuropathy Signs and Symptoms Grading based on NCI Common Terminology Criteria CTCAE v4.0 Modification of Dose and Regimen Grade 1 (asymptomatic; loss of deep tendon reflexes or paresthesia) without pain or loss of function No action Grade 1 with pain or Grade 2 (moderate symptoms; limiting instrumental Activities of Daily Living (ADL) Instrumental ADL: refers to preparing meals, shopping for groceries or clothes, using telephone, managing money, etc. ) Reduce Bortezomib for Injection to 1 mg/m 2 Grade 2 with pain or Grade 3 (severe symptoms; limiting self care ADL Self care ADL: refers to bathing, dressing and undressing, feeding self, using the toilet, taking medications, and not bedridden ) Withhold Bortezomib for Injection therapy until toxicity resolves. Grade 4 (life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated) Discontinue Bortezomib for Injection 2.8 Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Do not adjust the starting dose for patients with mild hepatic impairment. Table 6: Recommended Starting Dose Modification for Bortezomib for Injection in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Bilirubin Level SGOT (AST) Levels Modification of Starting Dose Abbreviations: SGOT = serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase; AST = aspartate aminotransferase; ULN = upper limit of the normal range. Mild Less than or equal to 1× ULN More than ULN None More than 1× to 1.5× ULN Any None Moderate More than 1.5× to 3× ULN Any Reduce Bortezomib for Injection to 0.7 mg/m 2 in the first cycle. Severe More than 3× ULN Any 2.9 Administration Precautions The drug quantity contained in one vial (3.5 mg) may exceed the usual dose required. If local injection site reactions occur following Bortezomib for Injection administration subcutaneously, a less concentrated Bortezomib for Injection solution (1 mg/mL instead of 2.5 mg/mL) may be administered subcutaneously [see Dosage and Administration (2.10) ] . After determining patient body surface area (BSA) in square meters, use the following equations to calculate the total volume (mL) of reconstituted Bortezomib for Injection to be administered: Intravenous Administration [1 mg/mL concentration] Bortezomib for Injection dose (mg/m 2 ) × patient BSA (m 2 ) =Total Bortezomib for Injection volume (mL) to be administered 1 mg/mL Subcutaneous Administration [2.5 mg/mL concentration] Bortezomib for Injection dose (mg/m 2 ) × patient BSA (m 2 ) =Total Bortezomib for Injection volume (mL) to be administered 2.5 mg/mL Stickers that indicate the route of administration are provided with each Bortezomib for Injection vial. ( 2.1 , 2.10 ) The recommended starting dose of VELCADE is 1.3 mg/m 2 administered either as a 3 to 5 second bolus intravenous injection or subcutaneous injection. ( 2.10 ) 2.1 Important Dosing Guidelines VELCADE is for intravenous or subcutaneous use only. Do not administer VELCADE by any other route. The recommended starting dose of VELCADE is 1.3 mg/m 2 . VELCADE is administered intravenously at a concentration of 1 mg/mL, or subcutaneously at a concentration of 2.5 mg/mL [see Dosage and Administration (2.10) ] . VELCADE retreatment may be considered for patients with multiple myeloma who had previously responded to treatment with VELCADE and who have relapsed at least six months after completing prior VELCADE treatment. When administered intravenously, administer VELCADE as a 3 to 5 second bolus intravenous injection. 2.2 Dosage in Previously Untreated Multiple Myeloma VELCADE is administered in combination with oral melphalan and oral prednisone for 9, six week treatment cycles as shown in Table 1 . In Cycles 1 to 4, VELCADE is administered twice weekly (Days 1, 4, 8, 11, 22, 25, 29 and 32). In Cycles 5 to 9, VELCADE is administered once weekly (Days 1, 8, 22 and 29). At least 72 hours should elapse between consecutive doses of VELCADE. Table 1: Dosage Regimen for Patients with Previously Untreated Multiple Myeloma Twice Weekly VELCADE (Cycles 1 to 4) Week 1 2 3 4 5 6 VELCADE (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 4 Day 8 Day 11 rest period Day 22 Day 25 Day 29 Day 32 rest period Melphalan (9 mg/m 2 ) Prednisone (60 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 -- -- rest period -- -- -- -- rest period Once Weekly VELCADE (Cycles 5 to 9 when used in combination with Melphalan and Prednisone) Week 1 2 3 4 5 6 VELCADE (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 8 rest period Day 22 Day 29 rest period Melphalan (9 mg/m 2 ) Prednisone (60 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 -- -- rest period -- -- -- -- rest period 2.3 Dose Modification Guidelines for VELCADE When Given in Combination with Melphalan and Prednisone Prior to initiating any cycle of therapy with VELCADE in combination with melphalan and prednisone: Platelet count should be at least 70 × 10 9 /L and the absolute neutrophil count (ANC) should be at least 1 × 10 9 /L Nonhematological toxicities should have resolved to Grade 1 or baseline Table 2: Dose Modifications During Cycles of Combination VELCADE, Melphalan and Prednisone Therapy Toxicity Dose Modification or Delay Hematological toxicity during a cycle: If prolonged Grade 4 neutropenia or thrombocytopenia, or thrombocytopenia with bleeding is observed in the previous cycle Consider reduction of the melphalan dose by 25% in the next cycle If platelet count is not above 30 × 10 9 /L or ANC is not above 0.75 × 10 9 /L on a VELCADE dosing day (other than Day 1) Withhold VELCADE dose If several VELCADE doses in consecutive cycles are withheld due to toxicity Reduce VELCADE dose by one dose level (from 1.3 mg/m 2 to 1 mg/m 2 , or from 1 mg/m 2 to 0.7 mg/m 2 ) Grade 3 or higher nonhematological toxicities Withhold VELCADE therapy until symptoms of toxicity have resolved to Grade 1 or baseline. Then, VELCADE may be reinitiated with one dose level reduction (from 1.3 mg/m 2 to 1 mg/m 2 , or from 1 mg/m 2 to 0.7 mg/m 2 ). For VELCADE-related neuropathic pain and/or peripheral neuropathy, hold or modify VELCADE as outlined in Table 5 . 2.4 Dosage in Previously Untreated Mantle Cell Lymphoma VELCADE (1.3 mg/m 2 ) is administered intravenously in combination with intravenous rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and oral prednisone (VcR-CAP) for 6, three week treatment cycles as shown in Table 3 . VELCADE is administered first followed by rituximab. VELCADE is administered twice weekly for two weeks (Days 1, 4, 8, and 11) followed by a ten day rest period on Days 12 to 21. Table 3: Dosage Regimen for Patients with Previously Untreated Mantle Cell Lymphoma Twice Weekly VELCADE (6, Three Week Cycles) Dosing may continue for two more cycles (for a total of eight cycles) if response is first seen at Cycle 6. Week 1 2 3 VELCADE (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 4 -- Day 8 Day 11 rest period Rituximab (375 mg/m 2 ) Cyclophosphamide (750 mg/m 2 ) Doxorubicin (50 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- -- -- rest period Prednisone (100 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 Day 5 -- -- rest period 2.5 Dose Modification Guidelines for VELCADE When Given in Combination with Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin and Prednisone Prior to the first day of each cycle (other than Cycle 1): Platelet count should be at least 100 × 10 9 /L and absolute neutrophil count (ANC) should be at least 1.5 × 10 9 /L Hemoglobin should be at least 8 g/dL (at least 4.96 mmol/L) Nonhematologic toxicity should have recovered to Grade 1 or baseline Interrupt VELCADE treatment at the onset of any Grade 3 hematologic or nonhematological toxicities, excluding neuropathy [see Table 5, Warnings and Precautions (5) ] . Table 4: Dose Modifications on Days 4, 8, and 11 During Cycles of Combination VELCADE, Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin and Prednisone Therapy Toxicity Dose Modification or Delay Hematological Toxicity Grade 3 or higher neutropenia, or a platelet count not at or above 25 × 10 9 /L Withhold VELCADE therapy for up to 2 weeks until the patient has an ANC at or above 0.75 × 10 9 /L and a platelet count at or above 25 × 10 9 /L. If, after VELCADE has been withheld, the toxicity does not resolve, discontinue VELCADE. If toxicity resolves such that the patient has an ANC at or above 0.75 × 10 9 /L and a platelet count at or above 25 × 10 9 /L, VELCADE dose should be reduced by 1 dose level (from 1.3 mg/m 2 to 1 mg/m 2 , or from 1 mg/m 2 to 0.7 mg/m 2 ). Grade 3 or higher nonhematological toxicities Withhold VELCADE therapy until symptoms of the toxicity have resolved to Grade 2 or better. 2.6 Dosage and Dose Modifications for Relapsed Multiple Myeloma and Relapsed Mantle Cell Lymphoma VELCADE (1.3 mg/m 2 /dose) is administered twice weekly for two weeks (Days 1, 4, 8, and 11) followed by a ten day rest period (Days 12 to 21). For extended therapy of more than eight cycles, VELCADE may be administered on the standard schedule or, for relapsed multiple myeloma, on a maintenance schedule of once weekly for four weeks (Days 1, 8, 15, and 22) followed by a 13 day rest period (Days 23 to 35) [see Clinical Studies (14) ] . Patients with multiple myeloma who have previously responded to treatment with VELCADE (either alone or in combination) and who have relapsed at least six months after their prior VELCADE therapy may be started on VELCADE at the last tolerated dose. Retreated patients are administered VELCADE twice weekly (Days 1, 4, 8, and 11) every three weeks for a maximum of eight cycles. VELCADE may be administered either as a single agent or in combination with dexamethasone [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ] . VELCADE therapy should be withheld at the onset of any Grade 3 nonhematological or Grade 4 hematological toxicities excluding neuropathy as discussed below [see Warnings and Precautions (5) ] . Once the symptoms of the toxicity have resolved, VELCADE therapy may be reinitiated at a 25% reduced dose (1.3 mg/m 2 /dose reduced to 1 mg/m 2 /dose; 1 mg/m 2 /dose reduced to 0.7 mg/m 2 /dose). 2.7 Dose Modifications for Peripheral Neuropathy Starting VELCADE subcutaneously may be considered for patients with pre-existing or at high risk of peripheral neuropathy. Patients with pre-existing severe neuropathy should be treated with VELCADE only after careful risk-benefit assessment. Patients experiencing new or worsening peripheral neuropathy during VELCADE therapy may require a decrease in the dose and/or a less dose-intense schedule. For dose or schedule modification guidelines for patients who experience VELCADE-related neuropathic pain and/or peripheral neuropathy, see Table 5 . Table 5: Recommended Dose Modification for VELCADE-Related Neuropathic Pain and/or Peripheral Sensory or Motor Neuropathy Severity of Peripheral Neuropathy Signs and Symptoms Grading based on NCI Common Terminology Criteria CTCAE v4.0 Modification of Dose and Regimen Grade 1 (asymptomatic; loss of deep tendon reflexes or paresthesia) without pain or loss of function No action Grade 1 with pain or Grade 2 (moderate symptoms; limiting instrumental Activities of Daily Living (ADL) Instrumental ADL: refers to preparing meals, shopping for groceries or clothes, using telephone, managing money, etc. ) Reduce VELCADE to 1 mg/m 2 Grade 2 with pain or Grade 3 (severe symptoms; limiting self care ADL Self care ADL: refers to bathing, dressing and undressing, feeding self, using the toilet, taking medications, and not bedridden ) Withhold VELCADE therapy until toxicity resolves. When toxicity resolves reinitiate with a reduced dose of VELCADE at 0.7 mg/m 2 once per week. Grade 4 (life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated) Discontinue VELCADE 2.8 Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Do not adjust the starting dose for patients with mild hepatic impairment. Table 6: Recommended Starting Dose Modification for VELCADE in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Bilirubin Level SGOT (AST) Levels Modification of Starting Dose Abbreviations: SGOT = serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase; AST = aspartate aminotransferase; ULN = upper limit of the normal range. Mild Less than or equal to 1× ULN More than ULN None More than 1× to 1.5× ULN Any None Moderate More than 1.5× to 3× ULN Any Reduce VELCADE to 0.7 mg/m 2 in the first cycle. If local injection site reactions occur following VELCADE administration subcutaneously, a less concentrated VELCADE solution (1 mg/mL instead of 2.5 mg/mL) may be administered subcutaneously [see Dosage and Administration (2.10) ] . VELCADE is a hazardous drug. After determining patient body surface area (BSA) in square meters, use the following equations to calculate the total volume (mL) of reconstituted VELCADE to be administered: Intravenous Administration [1 mg/mL concentration] VELCADE dose (mg/m 2 ) × patient BSA (m 2 ) =Total VELCADE volume (mL) to be administered 1 mg/mL Subcutaneous Administration [2.5 mg/mL concentration] VELCADE dose (mg/m 2 ) × patient BSA (m 2 ) =Total VELCADE volume (mL) to be administered 2.5 mg/mL Stickers that indicate the route of administration are provided with each VELCADE vial. These stickers should be placed directly on the syringe of VELCADE once VELCADE is prepared to help alert practitioners of the correct route of administration for VELCADE. Stability Unopened vials of VELCADE are stable until the date indicated on the package when stored in the original package protected from light. VELCADE contains no antimicrobial preservative. Administer reconstituted VELCADE within eight hours of preparation. When reconstituted as directed, VELCADE may be stored at 25°C (77°F). Each route of administration has a different reconstituted concentration; Exercise caution when calculating the volume to be administered. ( 2.8 ) Dose must be individualized to prevent overdose ( 2.10 ) 2.1 Important Dosing Guidelines Bortezomib for injection is for intravenous or subcutaneous use only. Bortezomib for injection is administered intravenously at a concentration of 1 mg/mL, or subcutaneously at a concentration of 2.5 mg/mL [ see Dosage and Administration (2.10) ]. Treatment may be started at the last tolerated dose [ see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ] When administered intravenously, administer Bortezomib for injection as a 3 to 5 second bolus intravenous injection. 2.2 Dosage in Previously Untreated Multiple Myeloma Bortezomib for injection is administered in combination with oral melphalan and oral prednisone for 9, six-week treatment cycles as shown in Table 1. At least 72 hours should elapse between consecutive doses of Bortezomib for injection . Table 1: Dosage Regimen for Patients with Previously Untreated Multiple Myeloma Twice Weekly Bortezomib for injection (Cycles 1 to 4) Week 1 2 3 4 5 6 Bortezomib for injection (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 4 Day 8 Day 11 rest period Day 22 Day 25 Day 29 Day 32 rest period Melphalan(9 mg/m 2 ) Prednisone(60 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 -- -- rest period -- -- -- -- rest period Once Weekly Bortezomib for injection (Cycles 5 to 9 when used in combination with Melphalan and Prednisone) Week 1 2 3 4 5 6 Bortezomib for injection (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 8 rest period Day 22 Day 29 rest period Melphalan(9 mg/m 2 ) Prednisone(60 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 -- -- rest period -- -- -- -- rest period 2.3 Dose Modification Guidelines for BORTEZOMIB FOR INJECTION When Given in Combination with Melphalan and Prednisone Prior to initiating any cycle of therapy with Bortezomib for injection in combination with melphalan and prednisone: Platelet count should be at least 70 x 10 9 /L and the absolute neutrophil count (ANC) should be at least 1 x 10 9 /L Nonhematological toxicities should have resolved to Grade 1 or baseline Table 2: Dose Modifications during Cycles of Combination Bortezomib for injection, Melphalan and Prednisone Therapy Toxicity Dose Modification or Delay Hematological toxicity during a cycle: If prolonged Grade 4 neutropenia or thrombocytopenia, or thrombocytopenia with bleeding is observed in the previous cycle Consider reduction of the melphalan dose by 25% in the next cycle If platelet count is not above 30 x 10 9 /L or ANC is not above 0.75 x 10 9 /L on a Bortezomib for injection dosing day (other than Day 1) Withhold Bortezomib for injection dose If several Bortezomib for injection doses in consecutive cycles are withheld due to toxicity Reduce Bortezomib for injection dose by one dose level (from 1.3 mg/m 2 to 1 mg/m 2 , or from 1 mg/m 2 to 0.7 mg/m 2 ) Grade 3 or higher nonhematological toxicities Withhold Bortezomib for injection therapy until symptoms of toxicity have resolved to Grade 1 or baseline. For Bortezomib for injection-related neuropathic pain and/or peripheral neuropathy, hold or modify Bortezomib for injection as outlined in Table 5. Dose modifications guidelines for peripheral neuropathy are provided [ see Dosage and Administration (2.7) ] 2.4 Dosage in Previously Untreated Mantle Cell Lymphoma Bortezomib for injection (1.3 mg/m 2 ) is administered intravenously in combination with intravenous rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and oral prednisone (VcR-CAP) for 6, three week treatment cycles as shown in Table 3 . Table: 3 Dosage Regime for Patients with Previously Untreated Mantle Cell Lymphoma Twice Weekly Bortezomib for injection (6, Three Week Cycles)* * Dosing may continue for two more cycles (for a total of eight cycles) if response is first seen at Cycle 6. Week 1 2 3 Bortezomib for Injection (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 4 -- Day 8 Day 11 rest period Rituximab (375 mg/m 2) Cyclophosphamide (750 mg/m 2 ) Doxorubicin (50 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- -- -- rest period Prednisone (100 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 Day 5 -- -- rest period 2.5 Dose Modification Guidelines for Bortezomib for injection When Given in Combination with Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin and Prednisone Prior to the first day of each cycle (other than Cycle 1): Platelet count should be at least 100 x 10 9 /L and absolute neutrophil count (ANC) should be at least 1.5 x 10 9 /L Hemoglobin should be at least 8 g/dL (at least 4.96 mmol/L) Nonhematologic toxicity should have recovered to Grade 1 or baseline Interrupt Bortezomib for injection treatment at the onset of any Grade 3 hematologic or nonhematological toxicities, excluding neuropathy [ see Table 5, Warnings and Precautions (5) ]. Table 4: Dose Modifications on Days 4, 8, and 11 During Cycles of Combination Bortezomib for Injection, Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin and Prednisone Therapy Toxicity Dose Modification or Delay Hematological Toxicity • Grade 3 or higher neutropenia, or a platelet count not at or above 25 x 10 9 /L • Withhold Bortezomib for injection therapy for up to 2 weeks until patient has an ANC at or above 0.75 x 10 9 /L and a platelet count at or above 25 x 10 9 /L. •If toxicity resolves such that the patient has an ANC at or above 0.75 x 10 9 /L and a platelet count at or above 25 x 10 9 /L, Bortezomib for injection dose should be reduced by 1 dose level (from 1.3 mg/m 2 to 1 mg/m 2 , or from 1 mg/m 2 to 0.7 mg/m 2 ) Grade 3 or higher nonhematological toxicities Withhold Bortezomib for Injection therapy until symptoms of the toxicity have resolved to Grade 2 or better. Then, Bortezomib for injection may be reinitiated with one dose level reduction (from 1.3 mg/m 2 , or from 1 mg/m 2 to 0.7 mg/m 2 ). For Bortezomib Injection-related neuropathic pain and/or peripheral neuropathy, hold or modify Bortezomib for injection as outlined in Table 5. For extended therapy of more than eight cycles, Bortezomib for injection may be administered on the standard schedule or, for relapsed multiple myeloma, on a maintenance schedule of once weekly for four weeks (Days 1, 8, 15, and 22) followed by a 13 day rest period (Days 23 to 35) [ see Clinical Studies (14) ]. Bortezomib for injection may be administered either as a single agent or in combination with dexamethasone [ see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Bortezomib for injection therapy should be withheld at the onset of any Grade 3 nonhematological or Grade 4 hematological toxicities excluding neuropathy as discussed below [ see Warnings and Precautions (5) ]. For dose modifications guidelines for peripheral neuropathy see section 2.7 . For dose or schedule modification guidelines for patients who experience Bortezomib for injection-related neuropathic pain and/or peripheral neuropathy see Table 5 . Table 5: Recommended Dose Modification for Bortezomib for injection-Related Neuropathic Pain and/or Peripheral Sensory or Motor Neuropathy Severity of Peripheral Neuropathy Signs and Symptoms * Modification of Dose and Regimen Grade 1 (asymptomatic; loss of deep tendon reflexes or paresthesia) without pain or loss of function No action Grade 1 with pain or Grade 2 (moderate symptoms; limiting instrumental Activities of Daily Living (ADL)**) Reduce Bortezomib for injection to 1 mg/m 2 Grade 2 with pain or Grade 3 (severe symptoms; limiting self care ADL ***) Withhold Bortezomib for injection therapy until toxicity resolves. Grade 4 (life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated) Discontinue Bortezomib for injection *Grading based on NCI Common Terminology Criteria CTCAE v4.0 ** Instrumental ADL: refers to preparing meals, shopping for groceries or clothes, using telephone, managing money, etc. *** Self care ADL: refers to bathing, dressing and undressing, feeding self, using the toilet, taking medications, and not bedridden 2.8 Dosage in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Do not adjust the starting dose for patients with mild hepatic impairment. Start patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment started on Bortezomib for injection dose at a reduced dose of 0.7 mg/m 2 per injection during the first cycle, and consider subsequent dose escalation to 1 mg/m 2 or further dose reduction to 0.5 mg/m 2 based on patient tolerance (see Table 6 ) [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Mild Less than or equal to 1x ULN More than ULN None More than 1x to 1.5x ULN Any None Moderate More than 1.5x to 3x ULN Any Reduce Bortezomib for injection to 0.7 mg/m 2 in the first cycle. Caution should be used in calculating the dose to prevent overdose [ see Dosage and Administration (2.10) ] . If local injection site reactions occur following Bortezomib for injection administration subcutaneously, a less concentrated Bortezomib for injection solution (1 mg/mL instead of 2.5 mg/mL) may be administered subcutaneously [ see Dosage and Administration (2.10) ]. Alternatively, consider use of the intravenous route of administration [ see Dosage and Administration (2.10) ]. Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedure. Because each route of administration has a different reconstituted concentration, use caution when calculating the volume to be administered [ see Dosage and Administration (2.9) ]. For each 3.5 mg single-dose vial of bortezomib reconstitute with the following volume of 0.9% sodium chloride based on route of administration ( Table 7 ): Table 7: Reconstitution Volumes and Final Concentration for Intravenous and Subcutaneous Administration Route of Administration Bortezomib (mg/vial) Diluent (0.9% Sodium Chloride) Final Bortezomib concentration (mg/mL) Intravenous 3.5 mg 3.5 mL 1 mg/mL Subcutaneous 3.5 mg 1.4 mL 2.5 mg/mL Dose must be individualized to prevent overdosage. After determining patient body surface area (BSA) in square meters, use the following equations to calculate the total volume (mL) of reconstituted Bortezomib for injection to be administered: Intravenous Administration [1 mg/mL concentration] Bortezomib for injection dose (m g/m 2 ) x pati ent BSA (m 2 ) = Total Bortezomib for injection volume (mL) to be administered 1 mg/mL Subcutaneous Administration [2.5 mg/mL concentration] Bortezomib for injection dose (mg/m 2 )x patient BSA (m 2 ) = Total Bortezomib for injection volume (mL) to be administered 2.25 mg/mL Stickers that indicate the route of administration are provided with each Bortezomib for injection vial. Stability: Unopened vials of Bortezomib for injection are stable until the date indicated on the package when stored in the original package protected from light. Bortezomib for injection is administered intravenously at a concentration of 1 mg per mL, or subcutaneously at a concentration of 2.5 mg per mL [see Dosage and Administration (2.10) ] . Table 1: Dosage Regimen for Patients with Previously Untreated Multiple Myeloma Twice Weekly Bortezomib for Injection (Cycles 1 to 4) Week 1 2 3 4 5 6 Bortezomib (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 4 Day 8 Day 11 rest period Day 22 Day 25 Day 29 Day 32 rest period Melphalan (9 mg/m 2 ) Prednisone (60 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 -- -- rest period -- -- -- -- rest period Once Weekly Bortezomib for Injection (Cycles 5 to 9 when used in combination with Melphalan and Prednisone) Week 1 2 3 4 5 6 Bortezomib (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 8 rest period Day 22 Day 29 rest period Melphalan (9 mg/m 2 ) Prednisone (60 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 -- -- rest period -- -- -- -- rest period 2.3 Dose Modification Guidelines for Bortezomib for Injection When Given in Combination with Melphalan and Prednisone Prior to initiating any cycle of therapy with bortezomib for injection in combination with melphalan and prednisone: Platelet count should be at least 70 x 10 9 /L and the absolute neutrophil count (ANC) should be at least 1 x 10 9 /L Nonhematological toxicities should have resolved to Grade 1 or baseline Table 2: Dose Modifications During Cycles of Combination Bortezomib for Injection, Melphalan and Prednisone Therapy Toxicity Dose Modification or Delay Hematological toxicity during a cycle: If prolonged Grade 4 neutropenia or thrombocytopenia, or thrombocytopenia with bleeding is observed in the previous cycle Consider reduction of the melphalan dose by 25% in the next cycle If platelet count is not above 30 x 10 9 /L or ANC is not above 0.75 x 10 9 /L on a bortezomib for injection dosing day (other than Day 1) Withhold bortezomib for injection dose If several bortezomib for injection doses in consecutive cycles are withheld due to toxicity Reduce bortezomib for injection dose by one dose level (from 1.3 mg/m 2 to 1 mg/m 2 , or from 1 mg/m 2 to 0.7 mg/m 2 ) Grade 3 or higher nonhematological toxicities Withhold bortezomib for injection therapy until symptoms of toxicity have resolved to Grade 1 or baseline. Twice Weekly Bortezomib for Injection (6, Three Week Cycles)* Week 1 2 3 Bortezomib (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 4 -- Day 8 Day 11 rest period Rituximab (375 mg/m 2 ) Cyclophosphamide (750 mg/m 2 ) Doxorubicin (50 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- -- -- rest period Prednisone (100 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 Day 5 -- -- rest period 2.5 Dose Modification Guidelines for Bortezomib for Injection When Given in Combination with Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin and Prednisone Prior to the first day of each cycle (other than Cycle 1): Platelet count should be at least 100 x 10 9 /L and absolute neutrophil count (ANC) should be at least 1.5 x 10 9 /L Hemoglobin should be at least 8 g/dL (at least 4.96 mmol/L) Nonhematologic toxicity should have recovered to Grade 1 or baseline Interrupt bortezomib for injection treatment at the onset of any Grade 3 hematologic or nonhematological toxicities, excluding neuropathy [see Table 5 , Warnings and Precautions (5) ] . Table 4: Dose Modifications on Days 4, 8, and 11 During Cycles of Combination Bortezomib for Injection, Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin and Prednisone Therapy Toxicity Dose Modification or Delay Hematological Toxicity Grade 3 or higher neutropenia, or a platelet count not at or above 25 x 10 9 /L Withhold bortezomib for injection therapy for up to 2 weeks until the patient has an ANC at or above 0.75 x 10 9 /L and a platelet count at or above 25 x 10 9 /L. If toxicity resolves such that the patient has an ANC at or above 0.75 x 10 9 /L and a platelet count at or above 25 x 10 9 /L, bortezomib for injection dose should be reduced by 1 dose level (from 1.3 mg/m 2 to 1 mg/m 2 , or from 1 mg/m 2 to 0.7 mg/m 2 ). Table 5: Recommended Dose Modification for Bortezomib for Injection-Related Neuropathic Pain and/or Peripheral Sensory or Motor Neuropathy * Grading based on NCI Common Terminology Criteria CTCAE v4.0 † Instrumental ADL: refers to preparing meals, shopping for groceries or clothes, using telephone, managing money, etc. ‡ Self care ADL: refers to bathing, dressing and undressing, feeding self, using the toilet, taking medications, and not bedridden Severity of Peripheral Neuropathy Signs and Symptoms* Modification of Dose and Regimen Grade 1 (asymptomatic; loss of deep tendon reflexes or paresthesia) without pain or loss of function No action Grade 1 with pain or Grade 2 (moderate symptoms; limiting instrumental Activities of Daily Living (ADL) † ) Reduce bortezomib for injection to 1 mg/m 2 Grade 2 with pain or Grade 3 (severe symptoms; limiting self care ADL ‡ ) Withhold bortezomib for injection therapy until toxicity resolves. Table 6: Recommended Starting Dose Modification for Bortezomib for Injection in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Abbreviations: SGOT = serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase; AST = aspartate aminotransferase; ULN = upper limit of the normal range. Bilirubin Level SGOT (AST) Levels Modification of Starting Dose Mild Less than or equal to 1x ULN More than ULN None More than 1x to 1.5x ULN Any None Moderate More than 1.5x to 3x ULN Any Reduce bortezomib for injection to 0.7 mg/m 2 in the first cycle. If local injection site reactions occur following bortezomib for injection administration subcutaneously, a less concentrated bortezomib for injection solution (1 mg per mL instead of 2.5 mg per mL) may be administered subcutaneously [see Dosage and Administration (2.10) ] . The reconstituted concentration of bortezomib for subcutaneous administration (2.5 mg per mL) is greater than the reconstituted concentration of bortezomib for intravenous administration (1 mg per mL). For each 3.5 mg single-dose vial of bortezomib, reconstitute with the following volume of 0.9% sodium chloride based on route of administration ( Table 7 ) : Table 7: Reconstitution Volumes and Final Concentration for Intravenous and Subcutaneous Administration Route of Administration Bortezomib (mg per vial) Diluent (0.9% Sodium Chloride) Final Bortezomib Concentration (mg per mL) Intravenous 3.5 mg 3.5 mL 1 mg per mL Subcutaneous 3.5 mg 1.4 mL 2.5 mg per mL Dose must be individualized to prevent overdosage. After determining patient body surface area (BSA) in square meters, use the following equations to calculate the total volume (mL) of reconstituted bortezomib for injection to be administered: Intravenous Administration [1 mg per mL concentration] Bortezomib for injection dose (mg/m 2 ) x patient BSA (m 2 ) = Total bortezomib for injection volume (mL) to be administered 1 mg per mL Subcutaneous Administration [2.5 mg per mL concentration] Bortezomib for injection dose (mg/m 2 ) x patient BSA (m 2 ) = Total bortezomib for injection volume (mL) to be administered 2.5 mg per mL Stickers that indicate the route of administration are provided with each bortezomib for injection vial. ( 2.8 ) • Dose must be individualized to prevent overdose ( 2.10 ) 2.1 Important Dosing Guidelines Bortezomib for Injection is for intravenous or subcutaneous use only. Treatment may be started at the last tolerated dose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.6 )] . Table 1: Dosage Regimen for Patients with Previously Untreated Multiple Myeloma Twice Weekly Bortezomib for Injection (Cycles 1 to 4) Week 1 2 3 4 5 6 Bortezomib for Injection (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 4 Day 8 Day 11 rest period Day 22 Day 25 Day 29 Day 32 rest period Melphalan (9 mg/m 2 ) Prednisone (60 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 -- -- rest period -- -- -- -- rest period Once Weekly Bortezomib for Injection (Cycles 5 to 9 when used in combination with Melphalan and Prednisone) Week 1 2 3 4 5 6 Bortezomib for Injection (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 8 rest period Day 22 Day 29 rest period Melphalan (9 mg/m 2 ) Prednisone (60 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 -- -- rest period -- -- -- -- rest period 2.3 Dose Modification Guidelines for Bortezomib for Injection When Given in Combination with Melphalan and Prednisone Prior to initiating any cycle of therapy with Bortezomib for Injection in combination with melphalan and prednisone: • Platelet count should be at least 70 x 10 9 /L and the absolute neutrophil count (ANC) should be at least 1.0 x 10 9 /L • Nonhematological toxicities should have resolved to Grade 1 or baseline Table 2: Dose Modifications During Cycles of Combination Bortezomib for Injection, Melphalan and Prednisone Therapy Toxicity Dose Modification or Delay Hematological toxicity during a cycle: If prolonged Grade 4 neutropenia or thrombocytopenia, or thrombocytopenia with bleeding is observed in the previous cycle Consider reduction of the melphalan dose by 25% in the next cycle If platelet count is not above 30 x 10 9 /L or ANC is not above 0.75 x 10 9 /L on a Bortezomib for Injection dosing day (other than Day 1) Withhold Bortezomib for Injection dose If several Bortezomib for Injection doses in consecutive cycles are withheld due to toxicity Reduce Bortezomib for Injection dose by one dose level (from 1.3 mg/m 2 to 1 mg/m 2 , or from 1 mg/m 2 to 0.7 mg/m 2 ) Grade 3 or higher nonhematological toxicities Withhold Bortezomib for Injection therapy until symptoms of toxicity have resolved to Grade 1 or baseline. For Bortezomib for Injection related neuropathic pain and/or peripheral neuropathy, hold or modify Bortezomib for Injection as outlined in Table 5 . Dose modifications guidelines for peripheral neuropathy are provided [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.7 )] . Bortezomib for Injection is administered twice weekly for two weeks (Days 1, 4, 8, and 11) followed by a ten-day rest period on Days 12 to 21. Table 3: Dosage Regimen for Patients with Previously Untreated Mantle Cell Lymphoma *Dosing may continue for two more cycles (for a total of eight cycles) if response is first seen at Cycle 6. Twice Weekly Bortezomib for Injection (6, Three Week Cycles) ⃰ Week 1 2 3 Bortezomib for Injection (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 4 -- Day 8 Day 11 rest period Rituximab (375 mg/m 2 ) Cyclophosphamide (750 mg/m 2 ) Doxorubicin (50 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- -- -- rest period Prednisone (100 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 Day 5 -- -- rest period 2.5 Dose Modification Guidelines for Bortezomib for Injection When Given in Combination with Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin and Prednisone Prior to the first day of each cycle (other than Cycle 1): • Platelet count should be at least 100 x 10 9 /L and absolute neutrophil count (ANC) should be at least 1.5 x 10 9 /L • Hemoglobin should be at least 8 g/dL (at least 4.96 mmol/L) • Nonhematologic toxicity should have recovered to Grade 1 or baseline Interrupt Bortezomib for Injection treatment at the onset of any Grade 3 hematologic or nonhematological toxicities, excluding neuropathy [ see Table 5 , and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ]. Table 4: Dose Modifications on Days 4, 8, and 11 During Cycles of Combination Bortezomib for Injection, Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin and Prednisone Therapy Toxicity Dose Modification or Delay Hematological Toxicity • Grade 3 or higher neutropenia, or a platelet count not at or above 25 × 10 9 /L Withhold Bortezomib for Injection therapy for up to 2 weeks until the patient has an ANC at or above 0.75 × 10 9 /L and a platelet count at or above 25 × 10 9 /L. For information concerning rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and prednisone, see manufacturer's prescribing information. 2.6 Dosage and Dose Modifications for Relapsed Multiple Myeloma and Relapsed Mantle Cell Lymphoma Bortezomib for Injection (1.3 mg/m 2 /dose) is administered twice weekly for two weeks (Days 1, 4, 8, and 11) followed by a ten day rest period (Days 12 to21). For extended therapy of more than eight cycles, Bortezomib for Injection may be administered on the standard schedule or, for relapsed multiple myeloma, on a maintenance schedule of once weekly for four weeks (Days 1, 8, 15, and 22) followed by a 13 day rest period (Days 23 to 35) [see Clinical Studies ( 14 )] . Bortezomib for Injection may be administered either as a single agent or in combination with dexamethasone [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )] . Bortezomib for Injection therapy should be withheld at the onset of any Grade 3 nonhematological or Grade 4 hematological toxicities excluding neuropathy as discussed below [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )] . 2.7 Dose Modifications for Peripheral Neuropathy Starting Bortezomib for Injection subcutaneously may be considered for patients with preexisting or at high risk of peripheral neuropathy. Table 5: Recommended Dose Modification for Bortezomib for Injection-Related Neuropathic Pain and/or Peripheral Sensory or Motor Neuropathy *Grading based on NCI Common Terminology Criteria CTCAE v4.0 ✝ Instrumental ADL: refers to preparing meals, shopping for groceries or clothes, using telephone, managing money, etc; ‡ Self care ADL: refers to bathing, dressing and undressing, feeding self, using the toilet, taking medications, and not bedridden Severity of Peripheral Neuropathy Signs and Symptoms* Modification of Dose and Regimen Grade 1 (asymptomatic; loss of deep tendon reflexes or paresthesia) without pain or loss of function No action Grade 1 with pain or Grade 2 (moderate symptoms; limiting instrumental Activities of Daily Living (ADL) ✝ ) Reduce Bortezomib for Injection to 1 mg/m 2 Grade 2 with pain or Grade 3 (severe Withhold Bortezomib for Injection therapy until symptoms; limiting self care ADL ‡ ) toxicity resolves. Start patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment at a reduced dose of 0.7 mg/m 2 per injection during the first cycle, and consider subsequent dose escalation to 1 mg/m 2 or further dose reduction to 0.5 mg/m 2 based on patient tolerance (see Table 6 ) [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.7 ), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Bilirubin Level SGOT (AST) Levels Modification of Starting Dose Mild Less than or equal to 1x ULN More than ULN None More than 1x to 1.5x ULN Any None Moderate More than 1.5x to 3x ULN Any Reduce Bortezomib for Injection to 0.7 mg / m 2 in the first cycle. Caution should be used in calculating the dose to prevent overdose [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.10 )] . Because each route of administration has a different reconstituted concentration, use caution when calculating the volume to be administered [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.9 )] . For each 3.5 mg single-dose vial of bortezomib, reconstitute with the following volume of 0.9% sodium chloride based on route of administration ( Table 7 ): Table 7: Reconstitution Volumes and Final Concentration for Intravenous and Subcutaneous Administration Route of Administration Bortezomib (mg/vial) Diluent (0.9% Sodium Chloride) Final Bortezomib Concentration (mg/mL) Intravenous 3.5 mg 3.5 mL 1 mg/mL Subcutaneous 3.5 mg 1.4 mL 2.5 mg/mL Dose must be individualized to prevent overdosage. After determining patient body surface area (BSA) in square meters, use the following equations to calculate the total volume (mL) of reconstituted Bortezomib for Injection to be administered: • Intravenous Administration [1 mg/mL concentration] Bortezomib for Injection dose (mg/m 2 ) x patient BSA (m 2 ) = 1 mg /mL Total Bortezomib for Injection volume (mL) to be administered • Subcutaneous Administration [2.5 mg/mL concentration] Bortezomib for Injection dose (mg/m 2 ) x patient BSA (m 2 ) = 2.5 mg⁄ mL Total Bortezomib for Injection volume (mL) to be administered Stickers that indicate the route of administration are provided with each Bortezomib for Injection vial. Table 1: Dosage Regimen for Patients with Previously Untreated Multiple Myeloma Twice Weekly Bortezomib for Injection (Cycles 1 to 4) Week 1 2 3 4 5 6 Bortezomib for Injection (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 4 Day 8 Day 11 rest period Day 22 Day 25 Day 29 Day 32 rest period Melphalan (9 mg/m 2 ) Prednisone (60 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 -- -- rest period -- -- -- -- rest period Once Weekly Bortezomib for Injection (Cycles 5 to 9 when used in combination with Melphalan and Prednisone) Week 1 2 3 4 5 6 Bortezomib for Injection (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 8 rest period Day 22 Day 29 rest period Melphalan (9 mg/m 2 ) Prednisone (60 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 -- -- rest period -- -- -- -- rest period 2.3 Dose Modification Guidelines for Bortezomib for Injection When Given in Combination with Melphalan and Prednisone Prior to initiating any cycle of therapy with bortezomib for injection in combination with melphalan and prednisone: Platelet count should be at least 70 x 10 9 /L and the absolute neutrophil count (ANC) should be at least 1 x 10 9 /L Nonhematological toxicities should have resolved to Grade 1 or baseline Table 2: Dose Modifications During Cycles of Combination Bortezomib for Injection, Melphalan and Prednisone Therapy Toxicity Dose Modification or Delay Hematological toxicity during a cycle: If prolonged Grade 4 neutropenia or thrombocytopenia, or thrombocytopenia with bleeding is observed in the previous cycle Consider reduction of the melphalan dose by 25% in the next cycle If platelet count is not above 30 x 10 9 /L or ANC is not above 0.75 x 10 9 /L on a bortezomib for injection dosing day (other than Day 1) Withhold bortezomib for injection dose If several bortezomib for injection doses in consecutive cycles are withheld due to toxicity Reduce bortezomib for injection dose by one dose level (from 1.3 mg/m 2 to 1 mg/m 2 , or from 1 mg/m 2 to 0.7 mg/m 2 ) Grade 3 or higher nonhematological toxicities Withhold bortezomib for injection therapy until symptoms of toxicity have resolved to Grade 1 or baseline. Table 3: Dosage Regimen for Patients with Previously Untreated Mantle Cell Lymphoma Twice Weekly Bortezomib for Injection (6, Three Week Cycles) * Week 1 2 3 Bortezomib for injection (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 4 -- Day 8 Day 11 rest period Rituximab (375 mg/m 2 ) Cyclophosphamide (750 mg/m 2 ) Doxorubicin (50 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- -- -- rest period Prednisone (100 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 Day 5 -- -- rest period * Dosing may continue for two more cycles (for a total of eight cycles) if response is first seen at Cycle 6. 2.5 Dose Modification Guidelines for Bortezomib for Injection When Given in Combination with Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin and Prednisone Prior to the first day of each cycle (other than Cycle 1): Platelet count should be at least 100 x 10 9 /L and absolute neutrophil count (ANC) should be at least 1.5 x 10 9 /L Hemoglobin should be at least 8 g/dL (at least 4.96 mmol/L) Nonhematologic toxicity should have recovered to Grade 1 or baseline Interrupt bortezomib for injection treatment at the onset of any Grade 3 hematologic or nonhematological toxicities, excluding neuropathy [see Table 5, Warnings and Precautions ( 5 )] . If toxicity resolves such that the patient has an ANC at or above 0.75 x 10 9 /L and a platelet count at or above 25 x 10 9 /L, bortezomib for injection dose should be reduced by 1 dose level (from 1.3 mg/m 2 to 1 mg/m 2 , or from 1 mg/m 2 to 0.7 mg/m 2 ) Grade 3 or higher nonhematological toxicities Withhold bortezomib for injection therapy until symptoms of the toxicity have resolved to Grade 2 or better. Table 6: Recommended Starting Dose Modification for Bortezomib for Injection in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Bilirubin Level SGOT(AST) Levels Modification of Starting Dose Mild Less than or equal to 1x ULN More than ULN None More than 1x to 1.5x ULN Any None Moderate More than 1.5x to 3x ULN Any Reduce bortezomib for injection to 0.7 mg/m 2 in the first cycle. After determining patient body surface area (BSA) in square meters, use the following equations to calculate the total volume (mL) of reconstituted bortezomib for injection to be administered: Intravenous Administration [1 mg/mL concentration ] Bortezomib for Injection dose (mg/m 2 ) x patient BSA (m 2 ) =Total bortezomib for injection volume (mL) to be administered 1 mg/mL Subcutaneous Administration [2.5 mg/mL concentration] Bortezomib for Injection dose (mg/m 2 ) x patient BSA (m 2 ) =Total bortezomib for injection volume (mL) to be administered 2.5 mg/mL Stickers that indicate the route of administration are provided with each bortezomib for injection vial. When reconstituted as directed, bortezomib for injection may be stored at 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F) [see USP Controlled Room Temperature]. Bortezomib for injection is administered intravenously at a concentration of 1 mg/mL, or subcutaneously at a concentration of 2.5 mg/mL [ see Dosage and Administration (2.10) ] . Treatment may be started at the last tolerated dose [ see Dosage and Administration (2.6) ]. Table 1: Dosage Regimen for Patients with Previously Untreated Multiple Myeloma Twice Weekly Bortezomib for Injection (Cycles 1 to 4) Week 1 2 3 4 5 6 Bortezomib for Injection (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 4 Day 8 Day 11 rest period Day 22 Day 25 Day 29 Day 32 rest period Melphalan (9 mg/m 2 ) Prednisone (60 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 -- -- rest period -- -- -- -- rest period Once Weekly Bortezomib for Injection (Cycles 5 to 9 when used in combination with Melphalan and Prednisone) Week 1 2 3 4 5 6 Bortezomib for Injection (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 8 rest period Day 22 Day 29 rest period Melphalan (9 mg/m 2 ) Prednisone (60 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 -- -- rest period -- -- -- -- rest period 2.3 Dose Modification Guidelines for Bortezomib for Injection When Given in Combination with Melphalan and Prednisone Prior to initiating any cycle of therapy with bortezomib for injection in combination with melphalan and prednisone: • Platelet count should be at least 70 × 10 9 /L and the absolute neutrophil count (ANC) should be at least 1 × 10 9 /L • Nonhematological toxicities should have resolved to Grade 1 or baseline Table 2: Dose Modifications During Cycles of Combination Bortezomib for Injection, Melphalan and Prednisone Therapy Toxicity Dose Modification or Delay Hematological toxicity during a cycle: If prolonged Grade 4 neutropenia or thrombocytopenia, or thrombocytopenia with bleeding is observed in the previous cycle Consider reduction of the melphalan dose by 25% in the next cycle If platelet count is not above 30 × 10 9 /L or ANC is not above 0.75 × 10 9 /L on a bortezomib for injection dosing day (other than Day 1) Withhold bortezomib for injection dose If several bortezomib for injection doses in consecutive cycles are withheld due to toxicity Reduce bortezomib for injection dose by one dose level (from 1.3 mg/m 2 to 1 mg/m 2 , or from 1 mg/m 2 to 0.7 mg/m 2 ) Grade 3 or higher nonhematological toxicities Withhold bortezomib for injection therapy until symptoms of toxicity have resolved to Grade 1 or baseline. Dose modifications guidelines for peripheral neuropathy are provided [ see Dosage and Administration (2.7) ]. 2.4 Dosage in Previously Untreated Mantle Cell Lymphoma Bortezomib (1.3 mg/m 2 ) is administered intravenously in combination with intravenous rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and oral prednisone (VcR-CAP) for 6, three week treatment cycles as shown in Table 3 . Table 3: Dosage Regimen for Patients with Previously Untreated Mantle Cell Lymphoma Twice Weekly Bortezomib (6, Three Week Cycles) Dosing may continue for two more cycles (for a total of eight cycles) if response is first seen at Cycle 6. Week 1 2 3 Bortezomib (1.3 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- Day 4 -- Day 8 Day 11 rest period Rituximab (375 mg/m 2 ) Cyclophosphamide (750 mg/m 2 ) Doxorubicin (50 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 -- -- -- -- rest period Prednisone (100 mg/m 2 ) Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 Day 5 -- -- rest period 2.5 Dose Modification Guidelines for Bortezomib When Given in Combination with Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin and Prednisone Prior to the first day of each cycle (other than Cycle 1): • Platelet count should be at least 100 × 10 9 /L and absolute neutrophil count (ANC) should be at least 1.5 × 10 9 /L • Hemoglobin should be at least 8 g/dL (at least 4.96 mmol/L) • Nonhematologic toxicity should have recovered to Grade 1 or baseline Interrupt bortezomib treatment at the onset of any Grade 3 hematologic or nonhematological toxicities, excluding neuropathy [ see Table 5 , Warnings and Precautions (5) ]. Table 4: Dose Modifications on Days 4, 8, and 11 During Cycles of Combination Bortezomib, Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin and Prednisone Therapy Toxicity Dose Modification or Delay Hematological Toxicity Grade 3 or higher neutropenia, or a platelet count not at or above 25 × 10 9 /L Withhold bortezomib therapy for up to 2 weeks until the patient has an ANC at or above 0.75 × 10 9 /L and a platelet count at or above 25 × 10 9 /L. • If, after bortezomib has been withheld, the toxicity does not resolve, discontinue bortezomib. • If toxicity resolves such that the patient has an ANC at or above 0.75 × 10 9 /L and a platelet count at or above 25 × 10 9 /L, bortezomib dose should be reduced by 1 dose level (from 1.3 mg/m 2 to 1 mg/m 2 , or from 1 mg/m 2 to 0.7 mg/m 2 ). For bortezomib-related neuropathic pain and/or peripheral neuropathy, hold or modify bortezomib as outlined in Table 5 . Table 5: Recommended Dose Modification for Bortezomib for Injection related Neuropathic Pain and/or Peripheral Sensory or Motor Neuropathy Severity of Peripheral Neuropathy Signs and Symptoms Grading based on NCI Common Terminology Criteria CTCAE v4.0 Modification of Dose and Regimen Grade 1 (asymptomatic: loss of deep tendon reflexes or paresthesia) without pain or loss of function No action Grade 1 with pain or Grade 2 (moderate symptoms; limiting instrumental Activities of Daily Living (ADL) Instrumental ADL: refers to preparing meals, shopping for groceries or clothes, using telephone, managing money, etc. Start patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment at a reduced dose of 0.7 mg/m 2 per injection during the first cycle, and consider subsequent dose escalation to 1 mg/m 2 or further dose reduction to 0.5 mg/m 2 based on patient tolerance (see Table 6 ) [ see Use in Specific Populations (8.7) , Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Bilirubin Level SGOT (AST) Levels Modification of Starting Dose Mild Less than or equal to 1× ULN More than ULN None More than 1× to 1.5× ULN Any None Moderate More than 1.5× to 3× ULN Any Reduce bortezomib for injection to 0.7 mg/m 2 in the first cycle. Caution should be used in calculating the dose to prevent overdose [ see Dosage and Administration (2.10) ]. After determining patient body surface area (BSA) in square meters, use the following equations to calculate the total volume (mL) of reconstituted bortezomib for injection to be administered: • Intravenous Administration [1 mg/mL concentration] bortezomib for injection dose (mg/m 2 ) × patient BSA (m 2 ) = Total bortezomib for injection volume (mL) to be administered 1 mg/mL • Subcutaneous Administration [2.5 mg/mL concentration] bortezomib for injection dose (mg/m 2 ) × patient BSA (m 2 ) = Total bortezomib for injection volume (mL) to be administered 2.5 mg/mL Stickers that indicate the route of administration are provided with each bortezomib for injection vial.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Bortezomib is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity (not including local reactions) to bortezomib, boron, or mannitol. Reactions have included anaphylactic reactions [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )]. Bortezomib is contraindicated for intrathecal administration. Fatal events have occurred with intrathecal administration of bortezomib. • Patients with hypersensitivity (not including local reactions) to bortezomib, boron, or mannitol, including anaphylactic reactions. ( 4 ) • Contraindicated for intrathecal administration. ( 4 ) Reactions have included anaphylactic reactions [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ] . Patients with hypersensitivity (not including local reactions) to bortezomib, boron, or mannitol, including anaphylactic reactions. ( 4 ) Contraindicated for intrathecal administration. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Bortezomib for Injection is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity (not including local reactions) to bortezomib, boron, or mannitol. Bortezomib for Injection is contraindicated for intrathecal administration. Fatal events have occurred with intrathecal administration of Bortezomib for Injection. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS VELCADE is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity (not including local reactions) to bortezomib, boron, or mannitol. VELCADE is contraindicated for intrathecal administration. Fatal events have occurred with intrathecal administration of VELCADE. Reactions have included anaphylactic reactions [ see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Reactions have included anaphylactic reactions [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1 )] . Reactions have included anaphylactic reactions [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1) ] .
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors: Closely monitor patients with concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) • Strong CYP3A4 Inducers: Avoid concomitant use. (7.3) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Bortezomib Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreases the exposure of bortezomib [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] which may decrease bortezomib efficacy. Avoid coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inducers. Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increases the exposure of bortezomib [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] which may increase the risk of bortezomib toxicities. Monitor patients for signs of bortezomib toxicity and consider a bortezomib dose reduction if bortezomib must be given in combination with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. 7.2 Drugs Without Clinically Significant Interactions with Bortezomib No clinically significant drug interactions have been observed when bortezomib was coadministered with dexamethasone, omeprazole, or melphalan in combination with prednisone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )]. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors: Closely monitor patients with concomitant use. ( 7.1 ) Strong CYP3A4 Inducers: Avoid concomitant use. (7.3) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Bortezomib Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreases the exposure of bortezomib [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] which may decrease bortezomib efficacy. Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increases the exposure of bortezomib [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] which may increase the risk of bortezomib toxicities. 7.2 Drugs Without Clinically Significant Interactions with Bortezomib No clinically significant drug interactions have been observed when bortezomib was coadministered with dexamethasone, omeprazole, or melphalan in combination with prednisone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . (7.3) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Bortezomib for Injection Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreases the exposure of bortezomib [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] which may decrease Bortezomib for Injection efficacy. 7.2 Drugs Without Clinically Significant Interactions with Bortezomib for Injection No clinically significant drug interactions have been observed when Bortezomib for Injection was coadministered with dexamethasone, omeprazole, or melphalan in combination with prednisone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on VELCADE Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreases the exposure of bortezomib [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] which may decrease VELCADE efficacy. Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increases the exposure of bortezomib [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] which may increase the risk of VELCADE toxicities. 7.2 Drugs Without Clinically Significant Interactions with VELCADE No clinically significant drug interactions have been observed when VELCADE was coadministered with dexamethasone, omeprazole, or melphalan in combination with prednisone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] . (7.3) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Bortezomib for injection Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreases the exposure of bortezomib [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] which may decrease Bortezomib for injection efficacy. Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increases the exposure of bortezomib [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] which may increase the risk of Bortezomib for injection toxicities. 7.2 Drugs without Clinically Significant Interactions with Bortezomib for injection No clinically significant drug interactions have been observed when Bortezomib for injection was coadministered with dexamethasone, omeprazole, or melphalan in combination with prednisone [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. (7.3) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Bortezomib for Injection Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreases the exposure of bortezomib [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] which may decrease Bortezomib for Injection efficacy. Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increases the exposure of bortezomib [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] which may increase the risk of Bortezomib for Injection toxicities. 7.2 Drugs Without Clinically Significant Interactions with Bortezomib for Injection No clinically significant drug interactions have been observed when bortezomib was coadministered with dexamethasone, omeprazole, or melphalan in combination with prednisone [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . ( 7.1 ) 7.1 Effects of Other Drugs on Bortezomib for Injection Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inducer decreases the exposure of bortezomib [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] which may decrease bortezomib for injection efficacy. Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor increases the exposure of bortezomib [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ] which may increase the risk of bortezomib for injection toxicities. 7.2 Drugs Without Clinically Significant Interactions with Bortezomib for Injection No clinically significant drug interactions have been observed when bortezomib for injection was coadministered with dexamethasone, omeprazole, or melphalan in combination with prednisone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ].

=== CHLORZOXAZONE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS Chlorzoxazone is indicated as an adjunct to rest, physical therapy, and other measures for the relief of discomfort associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions. The mode of action of this drug has not been clearly identified, but may be related to its sedative properties. Chlorzoxazone does not directly relax tense skeletal muscles in man. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Chlorzoxazone is indicated as an adjunct to rest, physical therapy, and other measures for the relief of discomfort associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions. INDICATIONS & USAGE Chlorzoxazone is indicated as an adjunct to rest, physical therapy, and other measures for the relief of discomfort associated with acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usual Adult Dosage One tablet three or four times daily. If adequate response is not obtained with this dose, it may be increased to one and one-half tablets (750 mg) three or four times daily. As improvement occurs dosage can usually be reduced. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usual Adult Dosage: One tablet (250 mg) three or four times daily. Initial dosage for painful musculoskeletal conditions should be two tablets (500 mg) three or four times daily. If adequate response is not obtained with this dose, it may be increased to three tablets (750 mg) three or four times daily. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usual Adult Dosage: One tablet three or four times daily. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usual Adult Dosage Chlorzoxazone tablets 375 mg: One tablet three or four times daily. If adequate response is not obtained with this dose, the 375 mg tablets may be increased to two tablets (750 mg) three or four times daily. Chlorzoxazone tablets 500 mg: One tablet three or four times daily. Chlorzoxazone tablets 750 mg: 1/3 tablet (250 mg) three or four times daily. Initial dosage for painful musculoskeletal conditions should be 2/3 tablet (500 mg) three or four times daily. If adequate response is not obtained with this dose, it may be increased to one tablet (750 mg) three or four times daily. DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Usual Adult Dosage One tablet three or four times daily. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usual Adult Dosage Chlorzoxazone tablets USP, 375 mg: One tablet three or four times daily. Chlorzoxazone tablets USP, 500 mg: One tablet three or four times daily. Chlorzoxazone tablets USP, 750 mg: 1/3 tablet (250 mg) three or four times daily.
Warnings: WARNINGS Serious (including fatal) hepatocellular toxicity has been reported rarely in patients receiving chlorzoxazone. The mechanism is unknown but appears to be idiosyncratic and unpredictable. Factors predisposing patients to this rare event are not known. Patients should be instructed to report early signs and/or symptoms of hepatotoxicity such as fever, rash, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, fatigue, right upper quadrant pain, dark urine, or jaundice. Chlorzoxazone should be discontinued immediately and a physician consulted if any of these signs or symptoms develop. Chlorzoxazone use should also be discontinued if a patient develops abnormal liver enzymes (e.g., AST, ALT, alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin.) The concomitant use of alcohol or other central nervous system depressants may have an additive effect. Usage in Pregnancy The safe use of chlorzoxazone has not been established with respect to the possible adverse effects upon fetal development. Therefore, it should be used in women of childbearing potential only when, in the judgment of the physician, the potential benefits outweigh the possible risks. Chlorzoxazone use should also be discontinued if a patient develops abnormal liver enzymes (e.g., AST, ALT, alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin). The concomitant use of alcohol or other central nervous system depressants may have an additive effect. Usage in Pregnancy: The safe use of chlorzoxazone has not been established with respect to the possible adverse effects upon fetal development. Therefore, it should be used in women of childbearing potential only when, in the judgement of the physician, the potential benefits outweigh the possible risks.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Chlorzoxazone is contraindicated in patients with known intolerance to the drug.

=== IVERMECTIN ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Lice treatment
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ivermectin is indicated for the treatment of the following infections: Strongyloidiasis of the intestinal tract Ivermectin is indicated for the treatment of intestinal (i.e., nondisseminated) strongyloidiasis due to the nematode parasite Strongyloides stercoralis . This indication is based on clinical studies of both comparative and open-label designs, in which 64-100% of infected patients were cured following a single 200-mcg/kg dose of ivermectin (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Clinical Studies ). Onchocerciasis Ivermectin is indicated for the treatment of onchocerciasis due to the nematode parasite Onchocerca volvulus . This indication is based on randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled and comparative studies conducted in 1427 patients in onchocerciasis-endemic areas of West Africa. The comparative studies used diethylcarbamazine citrate (DEC-C). NOTE: Ivermectin has no activity against adult Onchocerca volvulus parasites. The adult parasites reside in subcutaneous nodules which are infrequently palpable. Surgical excision of these nodules (nodulectomy) may be considered in the management of patients with onchocerciasis, since this procedure will eliminate the microfilariae-producing adult parasites. Use treats head lice 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ivermectin cream is indicated for the treatment of inflammatory lesions of rosacea. Ivermectin cream is indicated for the treatment of inflammatory lesions of rosacea. ( 1 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ivermectin tablets are indicated for the treatment of the following infections: Strongyloidiasis of the intestinal tract Ivermectin tablets are indicated for the treatment of intestinal (i.e., nondisseminated) strongyloidiasis due to the nematode parasite Strongyloides stercoralis . This indication is based on clinical studies of both comparative and open-label designs, in which 64% to 100% of infected patients were cured following a single 200 mcg/kg dose of ivermectin (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Clinical Studies ). Onchocerciasis Ivermectin tablets are indicated for the treatment of onchocerciasis due to the nematode parasite Onchocerca volvulus . This indication is based on randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled and comparative studies conducted in 1,427 patients in onchocerciasis-endemic areas of West Africa.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Strongyloidiasis The recommended dosage of ivermectin Tablets for the treatment of strongyloidiasis is a single oral dose designed to provide approximately 200 mcg of ivermectin per kg of body weight. See Table 1 for dosage guidelines. Patients should take tablets on an empty stomach with water (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacokinetics ). In general, additional doses are not necessary. However, follow-up stool examinations should be performed to verify eradication of infection (See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Clinical Studies ). Table 1: Dosage Guidelines for Ivermectin Tablets for Strongyloidiasis Body Weight (kg) Single Oral Dose Number of 3-mg Tablets 15-24 1 tablet 25-35 2 tablets 36-50 3 tablets 51-65 4 tablets 66-79 5 tablets ≥ 80 200 mcg/kg Onchocerciasis The recommended dosage of ivermectin Tablets for the treatment of onchocerciasis is a single oral dose designed to provide approximately 150 mcg of ivermectin per kg of body weight. See Table 2 for dosage guidelines. In mass distribution campaigns in international treatment programs, the most commonly used dose interval is 12 months. For the treatment of individual patients, retreatment may be considered at intervals as short as 3 months. Table 2: Dosage Guidelines for Ivermectin Tablets for Onchocerciasis Body Weight (kg) Single Oral Dose Number of 3-mg Tablets 15-25 1 tablet 26-44 2 tablets 45-64 3 tablets 65-84 4 tablets ≥ 85 150 mcg/kg Directions Important: Read warnings on carton before use. children 6 months of age to under 12 years of age: an adult should supervise use. adults and children 6 months of age and over: Inspect all household members should be checked by another person for lice and/or nits (eggs) use a magnifying glass in bright light to help you see the lice and/or nits (eggs) use a tool, such as a comb or two unsharpened pencils, to lift and part the hair look for tiny nits near the scalp, beginning at the back of the neck and behind the ears examine small sections of the hair (1-2 inches wide) at a time unlike dandruff, nits stick to the hair. Dandruff should move when lightly touched. If either lice or nits (eggs) are found, treat with product. Treat your hair and scalp must be DRY before applying product use the top of cap to break the tamper seal on the tube apply product directly to dry hair and scalp completely cover your scalp and hair closest to the scalp first, and then apply outwards towards the ends of your hair use only amount needed to completely cover hair and scalp, up to 1 entire tube, and discard the remaining rub product throughout your hair it is important to completely cover your entire head so that all lice and eggs are exposed to the lotion. Be sure that each hair is coated from the scalp to the tip. Wait and rinse allow product to stay on your hair and scalp for 10 minutes after it has been applied. Use a timer or clock. Start timing after you have completely covered your hair and scalp with product. After 10 minutes, rinse product completely from your hair and scalp using only water after rinsing, dry and style as usual. Wait 24 hours before applying shampoo. After treatment wash your hands after applying product nit combing is not necessary when treating with product for it to work, but if desired, a fine-tooth comb or special nit comb may be used to remove dead lice and nits this is a single use product. Discard tube after use. Do not use again on the same person and same lice infestation without talking to a healthcare provider first if infestation continues, see a doctor for other treatments machine wash any bedding and clothing used by anyone having lice. Machine wash at high temperatures (150°F) and tumble in a hot dryer for 20 minutes. After finishing treatment with lice medicine, check everyone in your family for lice after one week. Consider treatment for those who have lice. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply to the affected areas of the face once daily. Use a pea-size amount for each area of the face (forehead, chin, nose, each cheek) that is affected. Spread as a thin layer, avoiding the eyes and lips. Ivermectin cream is not for oral, ophthalmic, or intravaginal use. Apply to the affected areas once daily. ( 2 ) Not for oral, ophthalmic or intravaginal use. ( 2 ) Directions Important: Read warnings before use children 6 months of age to under 12 years of age: an adult should supervise use adults and children 6 months of age and over: Inspect all household members should be checked by another person for lice and/or nits (eggs) use a magnifying glass in bright light to help you see the lice and/or nits (eggs) use a tool, such as a comb or two unsharpened pencils to lift and part the hair look for tiny nits near the scalp, beginning at the back of the neck and behind the ears examine small sections of the hair (1-2 inches wide) at a time unlike dandruff, nits stick to the hair. if either lice or nits (eggs) are found, treat with product Treat your hair and scalp must be DRY before applying product use the top of cap to break the tamper seal on the tube apply product directly to dry hair and scalp completely cover your scalp and hair closest to the scalp ﬁrst, and then apply outwards towards the ends of your hair use only amount needed to completely cover hair and scalp, up to 1 entire tube, and discard the remaining rub product throughout your hair it is important to completely cover your entire head so that all lice and eggs are exposed to the lotion. After treatment wash your hands after applying product nit combing is not necessary when treating with product for it to work, but if desired, a ﬁne-tooth comb or special nit comb may be used to remove dead lice and nits this is a single use product. do not use again on the same person and same lice infestation without talking to a healthcare provider ﬁrst if infestation continues, see a doctor for other treatments machine wash any bedding and clothing used by anyone having lice. after ﬁnishing treatment with lice medicine, check everyone in your family for lice after one week. if either lice or nits (eggs) are found, treat with product Treat your hair and scalp must be DRY before applying product use the top of cap to break the tamper seal on the tube apply product directly to dry hair and scalp completely cover your scalp and hair closest to the scalp first, and then apply outwards towards the ends of your hair use only amount needed to completely cover hair and scalp, up to 1 entire tube, and discard the remaining rub product throughout your hair it is important to completely cover your entire head so that all lice and eggs are exposed to the lotion. • Apply to the affected areas once daily. ( 2 ) • Not for oral, ophthalmic or intravaginal use. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Strongyloidiasis The recommended dosage of ivermectin for the treatment of strongyloidiasis is a single oral dose designed to provide approximately 200 mcg of ivermectin per kg of body weight. Table 1 Dosage Guidelines for Ivermectin for Strongyloidiasis Body Weight (kg) Single Oral Dose Number of 3 mg Tablets 15 to 24 1 tablet 25 to 35 2 tablets 36 to 50 3 tablets 51 to 65 4 tablets 66 to 79 5 tablets ≥ 80 200 mcg/kg Onchocerciasis The recommended dosage of ivermectin for the treatment of onchocerciasis is a single oral dose designed to provide approximately 150 mcg of ivermectin per kg of body weight. Table 2 Dosage Guidelines for Ivermectin for Onchocerciasis Body Weight (kg) Single Oral Dose Number of 3 mg Tablets 15 to 25 1 tablet 26 to 44 2 tablets 45 to 64 3 tablets 65 to 84 4 tablets ≥ 85 150 mcg/kg
Warnings: WARNINGS Historical data have shown that microfilaricidal drugs, such as diethylcarbamazine citrate (DEC-C), might cause cutaneous and/or systemic reactions of varying severity (the Mazzotti reaction) and ophthalmological reactions in patients with onchocerciasis. These reactions are probably due to allergic and inflammatory responses to the death of microfilariae. Patients treated with ivermectin for onchocerciasis may experience these reactions in addition to clinical adverse reactions possibly, probably, or definitely related to the drug itself (See ADVERSE REACTIONS, Onchocerciasis ). The treatment of severe Mazzotti reactions has not been subjected to controlled clinical trials. Oral hydration, recumbency, intravenous normal saline, and/or parenteral corticosteroids have been used to treat postural hypotension. Antihistamines and/or aspirin have been used for most mild to moderate cases. Neurotoxicity with the use of ivermectin, including alteration of consciousness of variable severity (e.g., somnolence/drowsiness, stupor, and coma), confusion, disorientation and death, has been reported in patients without onchocerciasis or in patients with onchocerciasis in the absence of Loa loa infection. These reactions have generally resolved with supportive care and the discontinuation of ivermectin. Warnings For external use only. Use only on the scalp. Do not use on children under 6 months of age near the eyes inside the nose, ear, mouth, or vagina on lice in eyebrows or eyelashes. See a doctor if lice are present in these areas. Ask a doctor before use if you have any skin conditions or sensitivities are pregnant or plan to become pregnant. It is not known if product can harm your unborn baby are currently or planning to breastfeed. Avoid getting product on your breast to help prevent contact by your baby. When using this product keep eyes tightly closed and protect eyes with a washcloth or towel if product gets into eyes, gently flush with water eye redness, soreness, or irritation can occur dandruff, dry skin, or burning sensation of the skin can occur. Stop use and ask a doctor if breathing difficulty occurs eye irritation occurs skin or scalp irritation continues or infection occurs rash develops. If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. If swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center (1-800-222-1222) right away. It is not known if product can harm your unborn baby. are currently or planning to breastfeed. When using this product keep eyes tightly closed and protect eyes with a washcloth or towel if product gets into eyes, gently ﬂush with water eye redness, soreness, or irritation can occur dandruff, dry skin, or burning sensation of the skin can occur Stop use and ask a doctor if breathing difﬁculty occurs eye irritation occurs skin or scalp irritation continues or infection occurs rash develops If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use. When using this product keep eyes tightly closed and protect eyes with a washcloth or towel if product gets into eyes, gently flush with water eye redness, soreness, or irritation can occur dandruff, dry skin, or burning sensation of the skin can occur Stop use and ask a doctor if breathing difficulty occurs eye irritation occurs skin or scalp irritation continues or infection occurs rash develops If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a health professional before use. Patients treated with ivermectin for onchocerciasis may experience these reactions in addition to clinical adverse reactions possibly, probably or definitely related to the drug itself (See ADVERSE REACTIONS, Onchocerciasis ). Oral hydration, recumbency, intravenous normal saline and/or parenteral corticosteroids have been used to treat postural hypotension.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Ivermectin Tablets are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None. None. ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Ivermectin is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Post-marketing reports of increased INR (International Normalized Ratio) have been rarely reported when ivermectin was co-administered with warfarin. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS In vitro studies have shown that ivermectin cream, at therapeutic concentrations, neither inhibits nor induces cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzymes.

=== LISINOPRIL AND HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE TABLETS ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure lowers the risk of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide. Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management, including, as appropriate, lipid control, diabetes management, antithrombotic therapy, smoking cessation, exercise, and limited sodium intake. Many patients will require more than 1 drug to achieve blood pressure goals. For specific advice on goals and management, see published guidelines, such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program’s Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC). Numerous antihypertensive drugs, from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action, have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction, and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs, that is largely responsible for those benefits. The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke, but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly. Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk, and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures, so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit. Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk, so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension (for example, patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia), and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal. Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects (as monotherapy) in black patients, and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects (e.g., on angina, heart failure, or diabetic kidney disease). These considerations may guide selection of therapy. These fixed-dose combinations are not indicated for initial therapy (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). In using lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, consideration should be given to the fact that an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has caused agranulocytosis, particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen vascular disease, and that available data are insufficient to show that lisinopril does not have a similar risk. (See WARNINGS .) In considering use of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, it should be noted that Black patients receiving ACE inhibitors have been reported to have a higher incidence of angioedema compared to non-Black. (See WARNINGS, Head and Neck Angioedema .) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. In using lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP consideration should be given to the fact that an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has caused agranulocytosis, particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen vascular disease, and that available data are insufficient to show that lisinopril does not have a similar risk (See WARNINGS ). In considering the use of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, USP it should be noted that ACE inhibitors have been associated with a higher rate of angioedema in black than in nonblack patients (see WARNINGS, Lisinopril ) In using lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, consideration should be given to the fact that an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has caused agranulocytosis, particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen vascular disease, and that available data are insufficient to show that lisinopril does not have a similar risk.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Lisinopril monotherapy is an effective treatment of hypertension in once-daily doses of 10 mg to 80 mg, while hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy is effective in doses of 12.5 mg to 50 mg per day. In clinical trials of lisinopril/hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy using lisinopril doses of 10 mg to 80 mg and hydrochlorothiazide doses of 6.25 mg to 50 mg, the antihypertensive response rates generally increased with increasing dose of either component. The side effects (see WARNINGS ) of lisinopril are generally rare and apparently independent of dose; those of hydrochlorothiazide are a mixture of dose-dependent phenomena (primarily hypokalemia) and dose-independent phenomena (e.g., pancreatitis), the former much more common than the latter. Therapy with any combination of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide will be associated with both sets of dose-independent side effects, but addition of lisinopril in clinical trials blunted the hypokalemia normally seen with diuretics. To minimize dose-independent side effects, it is usually appropriate to begin combination therapy only after a patient has failed to achieve the desired effect with monotherapy. Dose Titration Guided by Clinical Effect A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with either lisinopril or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy may be switched to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 10-12.5 or lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 20-12.5. Further increases of either or both components could depend on clinical response. The hydrochlorothiazide dose should generally not be increased until 2-3 weeks have elapsed. Patients whose blood pressures are adequately controlled with 25 mg of daily hydrochlorothiazide, but who experience significant potassium loss with this regimen, may achieve similar or greater blood pressure control with less potassium loss if they are switched to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 10-12.5. Dosage higher than lisinopril 80 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg should not be used. Replacement Therapy: The combination may be substituted for the titrated individual components. Use in Renal Impairment: The usual regimens of therapy with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets need not be adjusted as long as the patient's creatinine clearance is greater than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 (serum creatinine approximately less than or equal to 3 mg/dL or 265 μmol/L). In patients with more severe renal impairment, loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides, so lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not recommended (see WARNINGS, Anaphylactoid reactions during membrane exposure ). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Lisinopril monotherapy is an effective treatment of hypertension in once-daily doses of 10 mg to 80 mg, while hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy is effective in doses of 12.5 mg per day to 50 mg per day. Therapy with any combination of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide may be associated with either or both dose-independent or dose-dependent side effects, but addition of lisinopril in clinical trials blunted the hypokalemia normally seen with diuretics. To minimize dose-dependent side effects, it is usually appropriate to begin combination therapy only after a patient has failed to achieve the desired effect with monotherapy. Dose Titration Guided by Clinical Effect: A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with either lisinopril or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy may be switched to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 10 mg/12.5 mg or lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 20 mg/12.5 mg, depending on current monotherapy dose. Further increases of either or both components should depend on clinical response with blood pressure measured at the interdosing interval to ensure that there is an adequate antihypertensive effect at that time. The hydrochlorothiazide dose should generally not be increased until 2 to 3 weeks have elapsed. After addition of the diuretic it may be possible to reduce the dose of lisinopril. Patients whose blood pressures are adequately controlled with 25 mg of daily hydrochlorothiazide, but who experience significant potassium loss with this regimen may achieve similar or greater blood-pressure control without electrolyte disturbance if they are switched to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 10 mg/12.5 mg. In patients who are currently being treated with a diuretic, symptomatic hypotension occasionally may occur following the initial dose of lisinopril. The diuretic should, if possible, be discontinued for two to three days before beginning therapy with lisinopril to reduce the likelihood of hypotension (See WARNINGS ). If the patient’s blood pressure is not controlled with lisinopril alone, diuretic therapy may be resumed. If the diuretic cannot be discontinued, an initial dose of 5 mg of lisinopril should be used under medical supervision for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). Concomitant administration of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets with potassium supplements, potassium salt substitutes or potassium-sparing diuretics may lead to increases of serum potassium (See PRECAUTIONS ). Use in Renal Impairment: Regimens of therapy with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide need not take account of renal function as long as the patient’s creatinine clearance is >30 mL/min/1.7m2 (serum creatinine roughly ≤3 mg/dL or 265 μmol/L). In patients with more severe renal impairment, loop diuretics are preferred to thiazides, so lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide is not recommended (see WARNINGS, Anaphylactoid Reactions During Membrane Exposure ). Dose Titration Guided by Clinical Effect A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with either lisinopril or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy may be switched to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 10 mg/12.5 mg or lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 20 mg/12.5 mg. Patients whose blood pressures are adequately controlled with 25 mg of daily hydrochlorothiazide, but who experience significant potassium loss with this regimen, may achieve similar or greater blood pressure control with less potassium loss if they are switched to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets 10 mg/12.5 mg. Replacement Therapy The combination may be substituted for the titrated individual components. Use in Renal Impairment The usual regimens of therapy with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets need not be adjusted as long as the patient's creatinine clearance is greater than 30 mL/min/1.73 m 2 (serum creatinine approximately less than or equal to 3 mg/dL or 265 μmol/L).
Warnings: WARNINGS General Lisinopril Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions: Presumably because angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides, including endogenous bradykinin, patients receiving ACE inhibitors (including lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets) may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions, some of them serious. Head and Neck Angioedema: Angioedema of the face, extremities, lips, tongue, glottis and/or larynx has been reported rarely in patients treated with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, including lisinopril. This may occur at any time during treatment. ACE inhibitors have been associated with a higher rate of angioedema in Black than in non-Black patients. In such cases lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should be promptly discontinued and appropriate therapy and monitoring should be provided until complete and sustained resolution of signs and symptoms has occurred. Even in those instances where swelling of only the tongue is involved, without respiratory distress, patients may require prolonged observation since treatment with antihistamines and corticosteroids may not be sufficient. Very rarely, fatalities have been reported due to angioedema associated with laryngeal edema or tongue edema. Patients with involvement of the tongue, glottis or larynx are likely to experience airway obstruction, especially those with a history of airway surgery. Where there is involvement of the tongue, glottis or larynx, likely to cause airway obstruction, subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1:1000 (0.3 mL to 0.5 mL) and/or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway should be promptly provided (See ADVERSE REACTIONS . ) Patients with a history of angioedema unrelated to ACE-inhibitor therapy may be at increased risk of angioedema while receiving an ACE inhibitor (see also INDICATIONS AND USAGE and CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitor and mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor (e.g., temsirolimus, sirolimus, everolimus) therapy or a neprilysin inhibitor may be at increased risk for angioedema (see PRECAUTIONS ). Intestinal Angioedema : Intestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors. These patients presented with abdominal pain (with or without nausea or vomiting); in some cases there was no prior history of facial angioedema and C-1 esterase levels were normal. The angioedema was diagnosed by procedures including abdominal CT scan or ultrasound, or at surgery, and symptoms resolved after stopping the ACE inhibitor. Intestinal angioedema should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients on ACE inhibitors presenting with abdominal pain. Anaphylactoid reactions during desensitization: Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions. In the same patients, these reactions were avoided when ACE inhibitors were temporarily withheld, but they reappeared upon inadvertent rechallenge. Anaphylactoid reactions during membrane exposure: Sudden and potentially life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in some patients dialyzed with high-flux membranes and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor. In such patients, dialysis must be stopped immediately, and aggressive therapy for anaphylactoid reactions must be initiated. Symptoms have not been relieved by antihistamines in these situations. In these patients, consideration should be given to using a different type of dialysis membrane or a different class of antihypertensive agent. Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in patients undergoing low-density lipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate absorption. Hypotension and Related Effects Excessive hypotension was rarely seen in uncomplicated hypertensive patients but is a possible consequence of lisinopril use in salt/volume-depleted persons such as those treated vigorously with diuretics or patients on dialysis. (See PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions and ADVERSE REACTIONS .) Syncope has been reported in 0.8 percent of patients receiving lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. In patients with hypertension receiving lisinopril alone, the incidence of syncope was 0.1 percent. The overall incidence of syncope may be reduced by proper titration of the individual components. (See PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions , ADVERSE REACTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) In patients with severe congestive heart failure, with or without associated renal insufficiency, excessive hypotension has been observed and may be associated with oliguria and/or progressive azotemia, and rarely with acute renal failure and/or death. Because of the potential fall in blood pressure in these patients, therapy should be started under very close medical supervision. Such patients should be followed closely for the first two weeks of treatment and whenever the dose of lisinopril and/or diuretic is increased. Similar considerations apply to patients with ischemic heart or cerebrovascular disease in whom an excessive fall in blood pressure could result in a myocardial infarction or cerebrovascular accident. If hypotension occurs, the patient should be placed in supine position and, if necessary, receive an intravenous infusion of normal saline. A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further doses which usually can be given without difficulty once the blood pressure has increased after volume expansion. Neutropenia/Agranulocytosis Another angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has been shown to cause agranulocytosis and bone marrow depression, rarely in uncomplicated patients but more frequently in patients with renal impairment, especially if they also have a collagen vascular disease. Available data from clinical trials of lisinopril are insufficient to show that lisinopril does not cause agranulocytosis at similar rates. Marketing experience has revealed rare cases of neutropenia and bone marrow depression in which a causal relationship to lisinopril cannot be excluded. Periodic monitoring of white blood cell counts in patients with collagen vascular disease and renal disease should be considered. Hepatic Failure Rarely, ACE inhibitors have been associated with a syndrome that starts with cholestatic jaundice or hepatitis and progresses to fulminant hepatic necrosis, and (sometimes) death. The mechanism of this syndrome is not understood. Patients receiving ACE inhibitors who develop jaundice or marked elevations of hepatic enzymes should discontinue the ACE inhibitor and receive appropriate medical follow-up. Hydrochlorothiazide Thiazides should be used with caution in severe renal disease. In patients with renal disease, thiazides may precipitate azotemia. Cumulative effects of the drug may develop in patients with impaired renal function. Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease, since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma. Sensitivity reactions may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma. The possibility of exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported. Lithium generally should not be given with thiazides (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions , Lisinopril and Hydrochlorothiazide ). Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle-Closure Glaucoma : Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy. Fetal Toxicity Use of drugs that act on the renin-angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death. Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations. Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia, anuria, hypotension, renal failure, and death. When pregnancy is detected, discontinue lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible. These adverse outcomes are usually associated with the use of these drugs in the second and third trimester of pregnancy. Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin-angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents. Appropriate management of maternal hypertension during pregnancy is important to optimize outcomes for both mother and fetus. In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative therapy to drugs affecting the renin-angiotensin system for a particular patient, apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus. Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra-amniotic environment. If oligohydramnios is observed, discontinue lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets, unless it is considered lifesaving for the mother. Fetal testing may be appropriate, based on the week of pregnancy. Patients and physicians should be aware, however, that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury. Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets for hypotension, oliguria, and hyperkalemia ( See PRECAUTIONS, Pediatric Use ). Lisinopril-Hydrochlorothiazide Teratogenicity studies were conducted in mice and rats with up to 90 mg/kg/day of lisinopril in combination with 10 mg/kg/day of hydrochlorothiazide. This dose of lisinopril is 5 times (in mice) and 10 times (in rats) the maximum recommended human daily dose (MRHDD) when compared on a body surface area basis (mg/m 2 ); the dose of hydrochlorothiazide is 0.9 times (in mice) and 1.8 times (in rats) the MRHDD. Maternal or fetotoxic effects were not seen in mice with the combination. In rats decreased maternal weight gain and decreased fetal weight occurred down to 3/10 mg/kg/day (the lowest dose tested). Associated with the decreased fetal weight was a delay in fetal ossification. The decreased fetal weight and delay in fetal ossification were not seen in saline-supplemented animals given 90/10 mg/kg/day. No teratogenic effects of lisinopril were seen in studies of pregnant mice, rats, and rabbits. On a body surface area basis, the doses used were up 55 times, 33 times, and 0.15 times, respectively, the MRHDD. Hydrochlorothiazide Studies in which hydrochlorothiazide was orally administered to pregnant mice and rats during their respective periods of major organogenesis at doses up to 3000 and 1000 mg/kg/day, respectively, provided no evidence of harm to the fetus. These doses are more than 150 times the MRHDD on a body surface area basis. Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood. There is a risk of fetal or neonatal jaundice, thrombocytopenia and possibly other adverse reactions that have occurred in adults. WARNINGS Lisinopril Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions: Presumably because angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides, including endogenous bradykinin, patients receiving ACE inhibitors (including lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide) may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions, some of them serious. Head and Neck Angioedema: Angioedema of the face, extremities, lips, tongue, glottis and/or larynx has been reported in patients treated with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, including lisinopril. ACE inhibitors have been associated with a higher rate of angioedema in black than in nonblack patients. Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide should be promptly discontinued and the appropriate therapy and monitoring should be provided until complete and sustained resolution of signs and symptoms has occurred. Where there is involvement of the tongue, glottis or larynx, likely to cause airway obstruction, subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1:1000 (0.3 mL to 0.5 mL) and/or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway should be promptly provided (See ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Intestinal Angioedema: Intestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors. Patients with a history of angioedema unrelated to ACE inhibitor therapy may be at increased risk of angioedema while receiving an ACE inhibitor (see also INDICATIONS AND USAGE and CONTRAINDICATIONS ). Anaphylactoid Reactions During Desensitization : Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions. Anaphylactoid Reactions during Membrane Exposure : Thiazide-containing combination products are not recommended in patients with severe renal dysfunction. Sudden and potentially life-threatening anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in some patients dialyzed with high-flux membranes (e.g., AN69®*) and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor. Hypotension and Related Effects: Excessive hypotension was rarely seen in uncomplicated hypertensive patients but is a possible consequence of lisinopril use in salt/volume-depleted persons such as those treated vigorously with diuretics or patients on dialysis (See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions and ADVERSE REACTIONS ). Syncope has been reported in 0.8 percent of patients receiving lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide. The overall incidence of syncope may be reduced by proper titration of the individual components (See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , ADVERSE REACTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). In patients with severe congestive heart failure, with or without associated renal insufficiency, excessive hypotension has been observed and may be associated with oliguria and/or progressive azotemia, and rarely with acute renal failure and/or death. If hypotension occurs, the patient should be placed in the supine position and, if necessary, receive an intravenous infusion of normal saline. Leukopenia/Neutropenia/Agranulocytosis: Another angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has been shown to cause agranulocytosis and bone marrow depression, rarely in uncomplicated patients but more frequently in patients with renal impairment, especially if they also have a collagen vascular disease. Marketing experience has revealed rare cases of leukopenia/neutropenia and bone marrow depression in which a causal relationship to lisinopril cannot be excluded. Where there is involvement of the tongue, glottis or larynx, likely to cause airway obstruction, subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1:1,000 (0.3 mL to 0.5 mL) and/or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway, should be promptly provided. (See ADVERSE REACTIONS . Hypotension and Related Effects Excessive hypotension was rarely seen in uncomplicated hypertensive patients but is a possible consequence of lisinopril use in salt/volume-depleted persons, such as those treated vigorously with diuretics or patients on dialysis. Neutropenia/Agranulocytosis Another angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril, has been shown to cause agranulocytosis and bone marrow depression, rarely in uncomplicated patients but more frequently in patients with renal impairment, especially if they also have a collagen vascular disease. Hydrochlorothiazide Studies in which hydrochlorothiazide was orally administered to pregnant mice and rats during their respective periods of major organogenesis at doses up to 3,000 and 1,000 mg/kg/day, respectively, provided no evidence of harm to the fetus.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product and in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous treatment with an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor and in patients with hereditary or idiopathic angioedema. Because of the hydrochlorothiazide component, this product is contraindicated in patients with anuria or hypersensitivity to other sulfonamide-derived drugs. Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor (e.g., sacubitril). Do not administer lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril/valsartan, a neprilysin inhibitor (see WARNINGS ). Do not coadminister aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. CONTRAINDICATIONS Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to this product and in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous treatment with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and in patients with hereditary or idiopathic angioedema. Do not administer Lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablet within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril/valsartan, a neprilysin inhibitor (see WARNINGS ). Do not co-administer aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ).
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Lisinopril Hypotension - Patients on Diuretic Therapy: Patients on diuretics and especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted, may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with lisinopril. The possibility of hypotensive effects with lisinopril can be minimized by either discontinuing the diuretic or increasing the salt intake prior to initiation of treatment with lisinopril. If it is necessary to continue the diuretic, initiate therapy with lisinopril at a dose of 5 mg daily, and provide close medical supervision after the initial dose for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour. (See WARNINGS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) When a diuretic is added to the therapy of a patient receiving lisinopril, an additional antihypertensive effect is usually observed (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) Inhibitors: In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including lisinopril, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving lisinopril and NSAID therapy. The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors, including lisinopril, may be attenuated by NSAIDs. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS): Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or direct renin inhibitors (such as aliskiren) is associated with increased risk of hypotension, syncope, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The VA NEPHRON trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 to 89.9 ml/min), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR, end state renal disease, or death, but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors. Monitor blood pressure, renal function, and electrolytes in patients on lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not coadminister aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with PRINZIDE in patients with renal impairment (GFR <60 ml/min). Other Agents: Lisinopril has been used concomitantly with nitrates and/or digoxin without evidence of clinically significant adverse interactions. No meaningful clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions occurred when lisinopril was used concomitantly with propranolol, digoxin, or hydrochlorothiazide. The presence of food in the stomach does not alter the bioavailability of lisinopril. Agents Increasing Serum Potassium: Lisinopril attenuates potassium loss caused by thiazide-type diuretics. Use of lisinopril with potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., spironolactone, eplerenone, triamterene, or amiloride), potassium supplements, or potassium-containing salt substitutes may lead to significant increases in serum potassium. Therefore, if concomitant use of these agents is indicated, because of demonstrated hypokalemia, they should be used with caution and with frequent monitoring of serum potassium. Lithium: Lithium toxicity has been reported in patients receiving lithium concomitantly with drugs which cause elimination of sodium, including ACE inhibitors. Lithium toxicity was usually reversible upon discontinuation of lithium and the ACE inhibitor. It is recommended that serum lithium levels be monitored frequently if lisinopril is administered concomitantly with lithium. Gold: Nitritoid reactions (symptoms include facial flushing, nausea, vomiting and hypotension) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold (sodium aurothiomalate) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitors: Patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitor and mTOR inhibitor (e.g., temsirolimus, sirolimus, everolimus) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema. (see WARNINGS ) Neprilysin Inhibitors: Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema. (see WARNINGS ) Hydrochlorothiazide When administered concurrently the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics. Alcohol, barbiturates, or narcotics - potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur. Antidiabetic drugs (oral agents and insulin) - dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required. Other antihypertensive drugs - additive effect or potentiation. Cholestyramine and colestipol resins - Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85% and 43%, respectively. Corticosteroids, ACTH - intensified electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalemia. Pressor amines (e.g., norepinephrine) - possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use. Skeletal muscle relaxants, nondepolarizing (e.g., tubocurarine) - possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant. Lithium - should not generally be given with diuretics. Diuretic agents reduce the renal clearance of lithium and add a high risk of lithium toxicity. Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets. Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatoryDrugs - In some patients, the administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is obtained. If it is necessary to continue the diuretic, initiate therapy with lisinopril at a dose of 5 mg daily, and provide close medical supervision after the initial dose for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for at least an additional hour (See WARNINGS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). When a diuretic is added to the therapy of a patient receiving lisinopril, an additional antihypertensive effect is usually observed (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibitors (COX-2 Inhibitors): In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including lisinopril, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure. Dual Blockade of the Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers, ACE inhibitors, or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension, hyperkalemia, and changes in renal function (including acute renal failure) compared to monotherapy. The VA NEPHRON trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes, elevated urinary-albumin-to-creatinine ratio, and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR 30 mL/min to 89.9 mL/min ), randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2.2 years. In general, avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors, closely monitor blood pressure, renal function and electrolytes in patients on lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS. Do not co-administer aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes. Avoid use of aliskiren with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with renal impairment (GFR < 60 mL/min). mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitors Patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitor and mTOR inhibitor (e.g., temsirolimus, sirolimus, everolimus) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema. (see WARNINGS ) Neprilysin Inhibitors Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema. Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent, respectively. Non-Steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs - In some patients, the administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic, natriuretic, and antihypertensive effects of loop, potassium-sparing and thiazide diuretics. Therefore, when lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents are used concomitantly, the patient should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide is obtained. Gold: Nitritoid reactions (symptoms include facial flushing, nausea, vomiting and hypotension) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold (sodium aurothiomalate) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide. Drug Interactions Lisinopril Hypotension - Patients on Diuretic Therapy: Patients on diuretics, and especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted, may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with lisinopril. (See WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) When a diuretic is added to the therapy of a patient receiving lisinopril, an additional antihypertensive effect is usually observed. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .) Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) Inhibitors: In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with compromised renal function, co-administration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with ACE inhibitors, including lisinopril, may result in deterioration of renal function, including possible acute renal failure.

=== MIDAZOLAM HYDROCHLORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Midazolam injection is indicated: intramuscularly or intravenously for preoperative sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia; intravenously as an agent for sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia prior to or during diagnostic, therapeutic or endoscopic procedures, such as bronchoscopy, gastroscopy, cystoscopy, coronary angiography, cardiac catheterization, oncology procedures, radiologic procedures, suture of lacerations and other procedures either alone or in combination with other CNS depressants; intravenously for induction of general anesthesia, before administration of other anesthetic agents. With the use of narcotic premedication, induction of anesthesia can be attained within a relatively narrow dose range and in a short period of time. Intravenous midazolam can also be used as a component of intravenous supplementation of nitrous oxide and oxygen (balanced anesthesia); continuous intravenous infusion for sedation of intubated and mechanically ventilated patients as a component of anesthesia or during treatment in a critical care setting. INDICATIONS AND USAGE: Midazolam injection is indicated: • intramuscularly or intravenously for preoperative sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia; • intravenously as an agent for sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia prior to or during diagnostic, therapeutic or endoscopic procedures, such as bronchoscopy, gastroscopy, cystoscopy, coronary angiography, cardiac catheterization, oncology procedures, radiologic procedures, suture of lacerations and other procedures either alone or in combination with other CNS depressants; • intravenously for induction of general anesthesia, before administration of other anesthetic agents. Intravenous midazolam can also be used as a component of intravenous supplementation of nitrous oxide and oxygen (balanced anesthesia); • continuous intravenous infusion for sedation of intubated and mechanically ventilated patients as a component of anesthesia or during treatment in a critical care setting. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Midazolam HCl syrup is indicated for use in pediatric patients for sedation, anxiolysis and amnesia prior to diagnostic, therapeutic or endoscopic procedures or before induction of anesthesia. Midazolam HCl syrup is intended for use in monitored settings only and not for chronic or home use [see WARNINGS] . INDICATIONS AND USAGE Midazolam injection is indicated: • intramuscularly or intravenously for preoperative sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia; • intravenously as an agent for sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia prior to or during diagnostic, therapeutic or endoscopic procedures, such as bronchoscopy, gastroscopy, cystoscopy, coronary angiography, cardiac catheterization, oncology procedures, radiologic procedures, suture of lacerations and other procedures either alone or in combination with other CNS depressants; • intravenously for induction of general anesthesia, before administration of other anesthetic agents. INDICATIONS AND USAGE: Midazolam injection is indicated: intramuscularly or intravenously for preoperative sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia; intravenously as an agent for sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia prior to or during diagnostic, therapeutic or endoscopic procedures, such as bronchoscopy, gastroscopy, cystoscopy, coronary angiography, cardiac catheterization, oncology procedures, radiologic procedures, suture of lacerations and other procedures either alone or in combination with other CNS depressants; intravenously for induction of general anesthesia, before administration of other anesthetic agents. With the sue of narcotic premedications, induction of anesthesia can be attained within a relatively narrow dose range and in a short period of time. Intravenous midazolam can also be used as a component of intravenous supplementation of nitrous oxide and oxygen (balanced anesthesia): continuous intravenous infusion for sedation of intubated and mechanically ventilated patients as a component of anesthesia or during treatment in a critical care setting. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Midazolam in sodium chloride injection is indicated: Continuous intravenous infusion for sedation of intubated and mechanically ventilated adult, pediatric, and neonatal patients as a component of anesthesia or during treatment in a critical care setting. Midazolam in sodium chloride injection is a benzodiazepine indicated for: continuous intravenous infusion for sedation of intubated and mechanically ventilated adult, pediatric, and neonatal patients as a component of anesthesia or during treatment in a critical care setting. ( 1 ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Midazolam hydrochloride injection is indicated: intramuscularly or intravenously for preoperative sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia; intravenously as an agent for sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia prior to or during diagnostic, therapeutic or endoscopic procedures, such as bronchoscopy, gastroscopy, cystoscopy, coronary angiography, cardiac catheterization, oncology procedures, radiologic procedures, suture of lacerations and other procedures either alone or in combination with other CNS depressants; intravenously for induction of general anesthesia, before administration of other anesthetic agents.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Note: CONTAINS BENZYL ALCOHOL (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) Midazolam hydrochloride injection is a potent sedative agent that requires slow administration and individualization of dosage. Clinical experience has shown midazolam hydrochloride to be 3 to 4 times as potent per mg as diazepam. BECAUSE SERIOUS AND LIFE-THREATENING CARDIORESPIRATORY ADVERSE EVENTS HAVE BEEN REPORTED, PROVISION FOR MONITORING, DETECTION AND CORRECTION OF THESE REACTIONS MUST BE MADE FOR EVERY PATIENT T0 WHOM MIDAZOLAM HYDROCHLORIDE INJECTION IS ADMINISTERED, REGARDLESS OF AGE OR HEALTH STATUS. Excessive single doses or rapid intravenous administration may result in respiratory depression, airway obstruction and/or arrest. The potential for these latter effects is increased in debilitated patients, those receiving concomitant medications capable of depressing the CNS, and patients without an endotracheal tube but undergoing a procedure involving the upper airway such as endoscopy or dental (see Boxed WARNING and WARNINGS ). Reactions such as agitation, involuntary movements, hyperactivity and combativeness have been reported in adult and pediatric patients. Should such reactions occur, caution should be exercised before continuing administration of midazolam hydrochloride (see WARNINGS ). Midazolam hydrochloride injection should only be administered IM or IV (see WARNINGS ). Care should be taken to avoid intra-arterial injection or extravasation (see WARNINGS ). Midazolam Hydrochloride Injection may be mixed in the same syringe with the following frequently used premedications: morphine sulfate, meperidine, atropine sulfate or scopolamine. Midazolam, at a concentration of 0.5 mg/mL, is compatible with 5% dextrose in water and 0.9% sodium chloride for up to 24 hours and with lactated Ringer's solution for up to 4 hours. Both the 1 mg/mL and 5 mg/mL formulations of midazolam may be diluted with 0.9% sodium chloride or 5% dextrose in water. Monitoring: Patient response to sedative agents, and resultant respiratory status, is variable. Regardless of the intended level of sedation or route of administration, sedation is a continuum; a patient may move easily from light to deep sedation, with potential loss of protective reflexes. This is especially true in pediatric patients. Sedative doses should be individually titrated, taking into account patient age, clinical status and concomitant use of other CNS depressants. Continuous monitoring of respiratory and cardiac function is required (i.e., pulse oximetry). Adults and Pediatrics: Sedation guidelines recommend a careful presedation history to determine how a patient's underlying medical conditions or concomitant medications might affect their response to sedation/analgesia as well as a physical examination including a focused examination of the airway for abnormalities. Further recommendations include appropriate presedation fasting. Titration to effect with multiple small doses is essential for safe administration. It should be noted that adequate time to achieve peak central nervous system effect (3 to 5 minutes) for midazolam should be allowed between doses to minimize the potential for oversedation. Sufficient time must elapse between doses of concomitant sedative medications to allow the effect of each dose to be assessed before subsequent drug administration. This is an important consideration for all patients who receive intravenous midazolam. Immediate availability of resuscitative drugs and age- and size-appropriate equipment and personnel trained in their use and skilled in airway management should be assured (see WARNINGS ). Pediatrics: For deeply sedated pediatric patients a dedicated individual, other than the practitioner performing the procedure, should monitor the patient throughout the procedure. Intravenous access is not thought to be necessary for all pediatric patients sedated for a diagnostic or therapeutic procedure because in some cases the difficulty of gaining IV access would defeat the purpose of sedating the child; rather, emphasis should be placed upon having the intravenous equipment available and a practitioner skilled in establishing vascular access in pediatric patients immediately available. USUAL ADULT DOSE INTRAMUSCULARLY For preoperative sedation/anxiolysis/ amnesia (induction of sleepiness or drowsiness and relief of apprehension and to impair memory of perioperative events). For intramuscular use, midazolam hydrochloride should be injected deep in a large muscle mass. The recommended premedication dose of midazolam for good risk (ASA Physical Status I & II) adult patients below the age of 60 years is 0.07 to 0.08 mg/kg IM (approximately 5 mg IM) administered up to 1 hour before surgery. The dose must be individualized and reduced when IM midazolam is administered to patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, other higher risk surgical patients, patients 60 or more years of age, and patients who have received concomitant narcotics or other CNS depressants (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). In a study of patients 60 years or older, who did not receive concomitant administration of narcotics, 2 to 3 mg (0.02 to 0.05 mg/kg) of midazolam produced adequate sedation during the preoperative period. The dose of 1 mg IM midazolam hydrochloride may suffice for some older patients if the anticipated intensity and duration of sedation is less critical. As with any potential respiratory depressant, these patients require observation for signs of cardiorespiratory depression after receiving IM midazolam. Onset is within 15 minutes, peaking at 30 to 60 minutes. It can be administered concomitantly with atropine sulfate or scopolamine hydrochloride and reduced doses of narcotics. INTRAVENOUSLY Sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia for procedures (See INDICATIONS AND USAGE ): Narcotic premedication results in less variability in patient response and a reduction in dosage of midazolam. For peroral procedures, the use of an appropriate topical anesthetic is recommended. For bronchoscopic procedures, the use of narcotic premedication is recommended. Midazolam hydrochloride 1 mg/mL formulation is recommended for sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia for procedures to facilitate slower injection. Both the 1 mg/mL and the 5 mg/mL formulations may be diluted with 0.9% sodium chloride or 5% dextrose in water. When used for sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia for a procedure, dosage must be individualized and titrated. Midazolam hydrochloride should always be titrated slowly; administer over at least 2 minutes and allow an additional 2 or more minutes to fully evaluate the sedative effect. Individual response will vary with age, physical status and concomitant medications, but may also vary independent of these factors. (See WARNINGS concerning cardiac/respiratory arrest/airway obstruction/ hypoventilation.) Healthy Adults Below the Age of 60: Titrate slowly to the desired effect, (e.g., the initiation of slurred speech). Some patients may respond to as little as 1 mg. No more than 2.5 mg should be given over a period of at least 2 minutes. Wait an additional 2 or more minutes to fully evaluate the sedative effect. If further titration is necessary, continue to titrate, using small increments, to the appropriate level of sedation. Wait an additional 2 or more minutes after each increment to fully evaluate the sedative effect. A total dose greater than 5 mg is not usually necessary to reach the desired endpoint. If narcotic premedication or other CNS depressants are used, patients will require approximately 30% less midazolam than unpremedicated patients. Patients Age 60 or Older, and Debilitated or Chronically Ill Patients: Because the danger of hypoventilation, airway obstruction, or apnea is greater in elderly patients and those with chronic disease states or decreased pulmonary reserve, and because the peak effect may take longer in these patients, increments should be smaller and the rate of injection slower. Titrate slowly to the desired effect, (e.g., the initiation of slurred speech). No more than 1.5 mg should be given over a period of no less than 2 minutes. If additional titration is necessary, it should be given at a rate of no more than 1 mg over a period of 2 minutes, waiting an additional 2 or more minutes each time to fully evaluate the sedative effect. Total doses greater than 3.5 mg are not usually necessary. If concomitant CNS depressant premedications are used in these patients, they will require at least 50% less midazolam than healthy young unpremedicated patients. Maintenance Dose: Additional doses to maintain the desired level of sedation may be given in increments of 25% of the dose used to first reach the sedative endpoint, but again only by slow titration, especially in the elderly and chronically ill or debilitated patient. These additional doses should be given only after a thorough clinical evaluation clearly indicates the need for additional sedation. Induction of Anesthesia: For induction of general anesthesia, before administration of other anesthetic agents. Individual response to the drug is variable, particularly when a narcotic premedication is not used. The dosage should be titrated to the desired effect according to the patient's age and clinical status. When midazolam is used before other intravenous agents for induction of anesthesia, the initial dose of each agent may be significantly reduced, at times to as low as 25% of the usual initial dose of the individual agents. Unpremedicated Patients: In the absence of premedication, an average adult under the age of 55 years will usually require an initial dose of 0.3 to 0.35 mg/kg for induction, administered over 20 to 30 seconds and allowing 2 minutes for effect. If needed to complete induction, increments of approximately 25% of the patient's initial dose may be used; induction may instead be completed with inhalational anesthetics. In resistant cases, up to 0.6 mg/kg total dose may be used for induction, but such larger doses may prolong recovery. Unpremedicated patients over the age of 55 years usually require less midazolam for induction; an initial dose of 0.3 mg/kg is recommended. Unpremedicated patients with severe systemic disease or other debilitation usually require less midazolam for induction. An initial dose of 0.2 to 0.25 mg/kg will usually suffice; in some cases, as little as 0.15 mg/kg may suffice. Premedicated Patients: When the patient has received sedative or narcotic premedication, particularly narcotic premedication, the range of recommended doses is 0.15 to 0.35 mg/kg. In average adults below the age of 55 years, a dose of 0.25 mg/kg, administered over 20 to 30 seconds and allowing 2 minutes for effect, will usually suffice. The initial dose of 0.2 mg/kg is recommended for good risk (ASA I & II) surgical patients over the age of 55 years. In some patients with severe systemic disease or debilitation, as little as 0.15 mg/kg may suffice. Narcotic premedication frequently used during clinical trials included fentanyl (1.5 to 2 mcg/kg IV, administered 5 minutes before induction), morphine (dosage individualized, up to 0.15 mg/kg IM), and meperidine (dosage individualized, up to 1 mg/kg IM). Sedative premedications were hydroxyzine pamoate (100 mg orally) and sodium secobarbital (200 mg orally). Except for intravenous fentanyl, administered 5 minutes before induction, all other premedications should be administered approximately 1 hour prior to the time anticipated for midazolam induction. Injectable midazolam hydrochloride can also be used during maintenance of anesthesia, for surgical procedures, as a component of balanced anesthesia. Effective narcotic premedication is especially recommended in such cases. Incremental injections of approximately 25% of the induction dose should be given in response to signs of lightening of anesthesia and repeated as necessary. CONTINUOUS INFUSION For continuous infusion, midazolam hydrochloride 5 mg/mL formulation is recommended diluted to a concentration of 0.5 mg/mL with 0.9% sodium chloride or 5% dextrose in water. Usual Adult Dose: If a loading dose is necessary to rapidly initiate sedation, 0.01 to 0.05 mg/kg (approximately 0.5 to 4 mg for a typical adult) may be given slowly or infused over several minutes. This dose may be repeated at 10 to 15 minute intervals until adequate sedation is achieved. For maintenance of sedation, the usual initial infusion rate is 0.02 to 0.1 mg/kg/hr (1 to 7 mg/hr). Higher loading or maintenance infusion rates may occasionally be required in some patients. The lowest recommended doses should be used in patients with residual effects from anesthetic drugs, or in those concurrently receiving other sedatives or opioids. Individual response to midazolam is variable. The infusion rate should be titrated to the desired level of sedation, taking into account the patient's age, clinical status and current medications. In general, midazolam should be infused at the lowest rate that produces the desired level of sedation. Assessment of sedation should be performed at regular intervals and the midazolam infusion rate adjusted up or down by 25% to 50% of the initial infusion rate so as to assure adequate titration of sedation level. Larger adjustments or even a small incremental dose may be necessary if rapid changes in the level of sedation are indicated. In addition, the infusion rate should be decreased by 10% to 25% every few hours to find the minimum effective infusion rate. Finding the minimum effective infusion rate decreases the potential accumulation of midazolam and provides for the most rapid recovery once the infusion is terminated. Patients who exhibit agitation, hypertension, or tachycardia in response to noxious stimulation, but who are otherwise adequately sedated, may benefit from concurrent administration of an opioid analgesic. Addition of an opioid will generally reduce the minimum effective midazolam hydrochloride infusion rate. PEDIATRIC PATIENTS UNLIKE ADULT PATIENTS, PEDIATRIC PATIENTS GENERALLY RECEIVE INCREMENTS OF MIDAZOLAM HYDROCHLORIDE ON A MG/KG BASIS. As a group, pediatric patients generally require higher dosages of midazolam hydrochloride (mg/kg) than do adults. Younger (less than six years) pediatric patients may require higher dosages (mg/kg) than older pediatric patients, and may require close monitoring (see tables below). In obese PEDIATRIC PATIENTS, the dose should be calculated based on ideal body weight. When midazolam is given in conjunction with opioids or other sedatives, the potential for respiratory depression, airway obstruction, or hypoventilation is increased. For appropriate patient monitoring, see Boxed WARNING , WARNINGS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Monitoring . The health care practitioner who uses this medication in pediatric patients should be aware of and follow accepted professional guidelines for pediatric sedation appropriate to their situation. OBSERVER'S ASSESSMENT OF ALERTNESS/SEDATION (OAA/S) Assessment Categories Responsiveness Speech Facial Expression Eyes Composite Score Responds readily to name spoken in normal tone normal normal clear, no ptosis 5 (alert) Lethargic response to name spoken in normal tone mild slowing or thickening mild relaxation glazed or mild ptosis (less than half the eye) 4 Responds only after name is called loudly and/or repeatedly slurring or prominent slowing marked relaxation (slack jaw) glazed and marked ptosis (half the eye or more) 3 Responds only after mild prodding or shaking Few recognizable words − − 2 Does not respond to mild prodding or shaking − − − 1 (deep sleep) FREQUENCY OF OBSERVER'S ASSESSMENT OF ALERTNESS/SEDATION COMPOSITE SCORES IN ONE STUDY OF CHILDREN UNDERGOING PROCEDURES WITH INTRAVENOUS MIDAZOLAM FOR SEDATION Age Range (years) n OAA/S Score 1 (deep sleep) 2 3 4 5 (alert) 1 to 2 16 6 (38%) 4 (25%) 3 (19%) 3 (19%) 0 >2 to 5 22 9 (41%) 5(23%) 8 (36%) 0 0 >5 to 12 34 1 (3%) 6 (18%) 22 (65%) 5 (15%) 0 >12 to 17 18 0 4 (22%) 14 (78%) 0 0 Total (1 to 17) 90 16 (18%) 19 (21%) 47 (52%) 8 (9%) 0 Note: Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. INTRAMUSCULARLY For sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia prior to anesthesia or for procedures, intramuscular midazolam can be used to sedate pediatric patients to facilitate less traumatic insertion of an intravenous catheter for titration of additional medication. USUAL PEDIATRIC DOSE (NON-NEONATAL) Sedation after intramuscular midazolam is age and dose dependent: higher doses may result in deeper and more prolonged sedation. Doses of 0.1 to 0.15 mg/kg are usually effective and do not prolong emergence from general anesthesia. For more anxious patients, doses up to 0.5 mg/kg have been used. Although not systematically studied, the total dose usually does not exceed 10 mg. If midazolam is given with an opioid, the initial dose of each must be reduced. INTRAVENOUSLY BY INTERMITTENT INJECTION For sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia prior to and during procedures or prior to anesthesia. USUAL PEDIATRIC DOSE (NON-NEONATAL) It should be recognized that the depth of sedation/anxiolysis needed for pediatric patients depends on the type of procedure to be performed. For example, simple light sedation/anxiolysis in the preoperative period is quite different from the deep sedation and analgesia required for an endoscopic procedure in a child. For this reason, there is a broad range of dosage. For all pediatric patients, regardless of the indications for sedation/anxiolysis, it is vital to titrate midazolam hydrochloride and other concomitant medications slowly to the desired clinical effect. The initial dose of midazolam should be administered over 2 to 3 minutes. Since midazolam hydrochloride is water soluble, it takes approximately three times longer than diazepam to achieve peak EEG effects, therefore one must wait an additional 2 to 3 minutes to fully evaluate the sedative effect before initiating a procedure or repeating a dose. If further sedation is necessary, continue to titrate with small increments until the appropriate level of sedation is achieved. If other medications capable of depressing the CNS are coadministered, the peak effect of those concomitant medications must be considered and the dose of midazolam adjusted. The importance of drug titration to effect is vital to the safe sedation/anxiolysis of the pediatric patient. The total dose of midazolam will depend on patient response, the type and duration of the procedure, as well as the type and dose of concomitant medications. Pediatric patients less than 6 months of age: Limited information is available in non-intubated pediatric patients less than 6 months of age. It is uncertain when the patient transfers from neonatal physiology to pediatric physiology, therefore the dosing recommendations are unclear. Pediatric patients less than 6 months of age are particularly vulnerable to airway obstruction and hypoventilation, therefore titration with small increments to clinical effect and careful monitoring are essential. Pediatric patients 6 months to 5 years of age: Initial dose 0.05 to 0.1 mg/kg. A total dose up to 0.6 mg/kg may be necessary to reach the desired endpoint but usually does not exceed 6 mg. Prolonged sedation and risk of hypoventilation may be associated with the higher doses. Pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age: Initial dose 0.025 to 0.05 mg/kg; total dose up to 0.4 mg/kg may be needed to reach the desired endpoint but usually does not exceed 10 mg. Pediatric patients 12 to 16 years of age: Should be dosed as adults. Prolonged sedation may be associated with higher doses; some patients in this age range will require higher than recommended adult doses but the total dose usually does not exceed 10 mg. The dose of midazolam hydrochloride must be reduced in patients premedicated with opioid or other sedative agents including midazolam. Higher risk or debilitated patients may require lower dosages whether or not concomitant sedating medications have been administered (see WARNINGS ). CONTINUOUS INTRAVENOUS INFUSION For sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia in critical care settings. USUAL PEDIATRIC DOSE (NON-NEONATAL) To initiate sedation, an intravenous loading dose of 0.05 to 0.2 mg/kg administered over at least 2 to 3 minutes can be used to establish the desired clinical effect IN PATIENTS WHOSE TRACHEA IS INTUBATED. (Midazolam should not be administered as a rapid intravenous dose.) This loading dose may be followed by a continuous intravenous infusion to maintain the effect. An infusion of midazolam hydrochloride injection has been used in patients whose trachea was intubated but who were allowed to breathe spontaneously. Assisted ventilation is recommended for pediatric patients who are receiving other central nervous system depressant medications such as opioids. Based on pharmacokinetic parameters and reported clinical experience, continuous intravenous infusions of midazolam should be initiated at a rate of 0.06 to 0.12 mg/kg/hr (1 to 2 mcg/kg/min). The rate of infusion can be increased or decreased (generally by 25% of the initial or subsequent infusion rate) as required, or supplemental intravenous doses of midazolam hydrochloride can be administered to increase or maintain the desired effect. Frequent assessment at regular intervals using standard pain/sedation scales is recommended. Drug elimination may be delayed in patients receiving erythromycin and/or other P450-3A4 enzyme inhibitors (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions section ) and in patients with liver dysfunction, low cardiac output (especially those requiring inotropic support), and in neonates. Hypotension may be observed in patients who are critically ill, particularly those receiving opioids and/or when midazolam is rapidly administered. When initiating an infusion with midazolam in hemodynamically compromised patients, the usual loading dose of midazolam hydrochloride should be titrated in small increments and the patient monitored for hemodynamic instability, e.g., hypotension. These patients are also vulnerable to the respiratory depressant effects of midazolam and require careful monitoring of respiratory rate and oxygen saturation. CONTINUOUS INTRAVENOUS INFUSION For sedation in critical care settings. USUAL NEONATAL DOSE Based on pharmacokinetic parameters and reported clinical experience in preterm and term neonates WHOSE TRACHEA WAS INTUBATED, continuous intravenous infusions of midazolam hydrochloride injection should be initiated at a rate of 0.03 mg/kg/hr (0.5 mcg/kg/min) in neonates <32 weeks and 0.06 mg/kg/hr (1 mcg/kg/min) in neonates >32 weeks. Intravenous loading doses should not be used in neonates, rather the infusion may be run more rapidly for the first several hours to establish therapeutic plasma levels. The rate of infusion should be carefully and frequently reassessed, particularly after the first 24 hours so as to administer the lowest possible effective dose and reduce the potential for drug accumulation. This is particularly important because of the potential adverse effects related to metabolism of the benzyl alcohol (see WARNINGS, Usage In Preterm Infants And Neonates ). Hypotension may be observed in patients who are critically ill and in preterm and term infants, particularly those receiving fentanyl and/or when midazolam is administered rapidly. Due to an increased risk of apnea, extreme caution is advised when sedating preterm and former preterm patients whose trachea is not intubated. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: The intent of the pharmacy bulk package for this product is for preparation of intravenous or intramuscular injection, or preparation of admixture for intravenous infusion. NOTE: CONTAINS BENZYL ALCOHOL (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) Midazolam injection is a potent sedative agent that requires slow administration and individualization of dosage. Clinical experience has shown midazolam to be 3 to 4 times as potent per mg as diazepam. BECAUSE SERIOUS AND LIFE-THREATENING CARDIORESPIRATORY ADVERSE EVENTS HAVE BEEN REPORTED, PROVISION FOR MONITORING, DETECTION AND CORRECTION OF THESE REACTIONS MUST BE MADE FOR EVERY PATIENT TO WHOM MIDAZOLAM INJECTION IS ADMINISTERED, REGARDLESS OF AGE OR HEALTH STATUS. Should such reactions occur, caution should be exercised before continuing administration of midazolam (see WARNINGS ). Midazolam injection should only be administered IM or IV (see WARNINGS ). Midazolam injection may be mixed in the same syringe with the following frequently used premedications: morphine sulfate, meperidine, atropine sulfate or scopolamine. Midazolam, at a concentration of 0.5 mg/mL, is compatible with 5% dextrose in water and 0.9% sodium chloride for up to 24 hours and with Lactated Ringer’s solution for up to 4 hours. The 5 mg/mL formulation of midazolam may be diluted with 0.9% sodium chloride or 5% dextrose in water. Monitoring Patient response to sedative agents, and resultant respiratory status, is variable. Adults and Pediatrics: Sedation guidelines recommend a careful presedation history to determine how a patient’s underlying medical conditions or concomitant medications might affect their response to sedation/analgesia as well as a physical examination including a focused examination of the airway for abnormalities. USUAL ADULT DOSE INTRAMUSCULARLY The recommended premedication dose of midazolam for good risk (ASA Physical Status I & II) adult patients below the age of 60 years is 0.07 to 0.08 mg/kg IM (approximately 5 mg IM) administered up to 1 hour before surgery. For preoperative sedation/anxiolysis/ amnesia (induction of sleepiness or drowsiness and relief of apprehension and to impair memory of perioperative events). For intramuscular use, midazolam should be injected deep in a large muscle mass. The dose of 1 mg IM midazolam may suffice for some older patients if the anticipated intensity and duration of sedation is less critical. INTRAVENOUSLY When used for sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia for a procedure, dosage must be individualized and titrated. Midazolam should always be titrated slowly; administer over at least 2 minutes and allow an additional 2 or more minutes to fully evaluate the sedative effect. Individual response will vary with age, physical status and concomitant medications, but may also vary independent of these factors (see WARNINGS concerning cardiac/respiratory arrest/airway obstruction/hypoventilation.) Sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia for procedures ( See INDICATIONS AND USAGE ): Narcotic premedication results in less variability in patient response and a reduction in dosage of midazolam. Midazolam injection 1 mg/mL formulation is recommended for sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia for procedures to facilitate slower injection. The 5 mg/mL formulation may be diluted with 0.9% sodium chloride or 5% dextrose in water. 1. Healthy Adults Below the Age of 60: Titrate slowly to the desired effect (e.g., the initiation of slurred speech). If narcotic premedication of other CNS depressants are used, patients will require approximately 30% less midazolam than unpremedicated patients. 2. Titrate slowly to the desired effect (e.g., the initiation of slurred speech). 3. The dosage should be titrated to the desired effect according to the patient’s age and clinical status. If needed to complete induction, increments of approximately 25% of the patient’s initial dose may be used; induction may instead be completed with inhalational anesthetics. Injectable midazolam can also be used during maintenance of anesthesia, for surgical procedures, as a component of balanced anesthesia. CONTINUOUS INFUSION Usual Adult Dose: If a loading dose is necessary to rapidly initiate sedation, 0.01 to 0.05 mg/kg (approximately 0.5 to 4 mg for a typical adult) may be given slowly or infused over several minutes. For maintenance of sedation, the usual initial infusion rate is 0.02 to 0.10 mg/kg/hr (1 to 7 mg/hr). The infusion rate should be titrated to the desired level of sedation, taking into account the patient’s age, clinical status and current medications. Addition of an opioid will generally reduce the minimum effective midazolam infusion rate. For continuous infusion, midazolam 5 mg/mL formulation is recommended diluted to a concentration of 0.5 mg/mL with 0.9% sodium chloride or 5% dextrose in water. PEDIATRIC PATIENTS UNLIKE ADULT PATIENTS, PEDIATRIC PATIENTS GENERALLY RECEIVE INCREMENTS OF MIDAZOLAM ON A MG/KG BASIS. As a group, pediatric patients generally require higher dosages of midazolam (mg/kg) than do adults. For appropriate patient monitoring see BOXED WARNING , WARNINGS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Monitoring . The healthcare practitioner who uses this medication in pediatric patients should be aware of and follow accepted professional guidelines for pediatric sedation appropriate to their situation. OBSERVER’S ASSESSMENT OF ALERTNESS/SEDATION (OAA/S) Assessment Categories Responsiveness Speech Facial Expression Eyes Composite Score Responds readily to name spoken in normal tone normal normal clear, no ptosis 5 (alert) Lethargic response to name spoken in normal tone mild slowing or thickening mild relaxation glazed or mild ptosis (less than half the eye) 4 Responds only after name is called loudly and/or repeatedly slurring or prominent slowing marked relaxation (slack jaw) glazed and marked ptosis (half the eye or more) 3 Responds only after mild prodding or shaking few recognizable words — — 2 Does not respond to mild prodding or shaking — — — 1 (deep sleep) FREQUENCY OF OBSERVER’S ASSESSMENT OF ALERTNESS/SEDATION COMPOSITE SCORES IN ONE STUDY OF PEDIATRIC PATIENTS UNDERGOING PROCEDURES WITH INTRAVENOUS MIDAZOLAM FOR SEDATION Age Range (years) n OAA/S Score 1 (deep sleep) 2 3 4 5 (alert) 1 to 2 16 6 (38%) 4 (25%) 3 (19%) 3 (19%) 0 >2 to 5 22 9 (41%) 5 (23%) 8 (36%) 0 0 >5 to 12 34 1 (3%) 6 (18%) 22 (65%) 5 (15%) 0 >12 to 17 18 0 4 (22%) 14 (78%) 0 0 Total (1 to 17) 90 16 (18%) 19 (21%) 47 (52%) 8 (9%) 0 INTRAMUSCULARLY USUAL PEDIATRIC DOSE (NON-NEONATAL) For sedation/anxiolysis/ amnesia prior to anesthesia or for procedures, intramuscular midazolam can be used to sedate pediatric patients to facilitate less traumatic insertion of an intravenous catheter for titration of additional medication. Sedation after intramuscular midazolam is age and dose dependent: higher doses may result in deeper and more prolonged sedation. INTRAVENOUSLY BY INTERMITTENT INJECTION USUAL PEDIATRIC DOSE (NON-NEONATAL) For sedation/ anxiolysis/amnesia prior to and during procedures or prior to anesthesia. It should be recognized that the depth of sedation/anxiolysis needed for pediatric patients depends on the type of procedure to be performed. For all pediatric patients, regardless of the indications for sedation/anxiolysis, it is vital to titrate midazolam and other concomitant medications slowly to the desired clinical effect. Since midazolam is water soluble, it takes approximately three times longer than diazepam to achieve peak EEG effects, therefore one must wait an additional 2 to 3 minutes to fully evaluate the sedative effect before initiating a procedure or repeating a dose. Pediatric patients 6 months to 5 years of age: Initial dose 0.05 to 0.1 mg/kg; total dose up to 0.6 mg/kg may be necessary to reach the desired endpoint but usually does not exceed 6 mg. 4. The dose of midazolam must be reduced in patients premedicated with opioid or other sedative agents including midazolam. CONTINUOUS INTRAVENOUS INFUSION USUAL PEDIATRIC DOSE (NON-NEONATAL) For sedation/anxiolysis/ amnesia in critical care settings. To initiate sedation, an intravenous loading dose of 0.05 to 0.2 mg/kg administered over at least 2 to 3 minutes can be used to establish the desired clinical effect IN PATIENTS WHOSE TRACHEA IS INTUBATED. An infusion of midazolam has been used in patients whose trachea was intubated but who were allowed to breathe spontaneously. The rate of infusion can be increased or decreased (generally by 25% of the initial or subsequent infusion rate) as required, or supplemental intravenous doses of midazolam can be administered to increase or maintain the desired effect. Drug elimination may be delayed in patients receiving erythromycin and/or other P450-3A4 enzyme inhibitors (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) and in patients with liver dysfunction, low cardiac output (especially those requiring inotropic support), and in neonates. When initiating an infusion with midazolam in hemodynamically compromised patients, the usual loading dose of midazolam should be titrated in small increments and the patient monitored for hemodynamic instability (e.g., hypotension). CONTINUOUS INTRAVENOUS INFUSION USUAL NEONATAL DOSE For sedation in critical care settings. Based on pharmacokinetic parameters and reported clinical experience in preterm and term neonates WHOSE TRACHEA WAS INTUBATED, continuous intravenous infusions of midazolam should be initiated at a rate of 0.03 mg/kg/hr (0.5 mcg/kg/min) in neonates <32 weeks and 0.06 mg/kg/hr (1 mcg/kg/min) in neonates >32 weeks. This is particularly important because of the potential for adverse effects related to metabolism of the benzyl alcohol (see WARNINGS , Usage in Preterm Infants and Neonates ) . NOTE: Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. DIRECTIONS FOR DISPENSING AND PROPER USE OF PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE: Pharmacy Bulk Package – Not for Direct Infusion The Pharmacy Bulk Package is for use in the hospital pharmacy admixture service only under a laminar flow hood. Using aseptic technique, the container closure may be penetrated only one time using a suitable sterile dispensing set or transfer device that allows measured dispensing of the contents. Use of a syringe and needle is not recommended as it may cause leakage. The withdrawal of the container contents should be accomplished without delay. However, should this not be possible, a maximum time of 4 HOURS from initial port closure entries is permitted to complete fluid transfer operations. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Midazolam HCl syrup is indicated for use as a single dose (0.25 to 1.0 mg/kg with a maximum dose of 20 mg) for preprocedural sedation and anxiolysis in pediatric patients. Midazolam HCl syrup is not intended for chronic administration. Monitoring Midazolam HCl syrup should only be used in hospital or ambulatory care settings, including physicians’ and dentists’ offices that can provide for continuous monitoring of respiratory and cardiac function. Immediate availability of resuscitative drugs and age- and size-appropriate equipment for bag/valve/mask ventilation and intubation, and personnel trained in their use and skilled in airway management should be assured [see WARNINGS] . For deeply sedated patients, a dedicated individual whose sole responsibility it is to observe the patient, other than the practitioner performing the procedure, should monitor the patient throughout the procedure. Continuous monitoring of respiratory and cardiac function is required. Midazolam HCl syrup must be given only to patients if they will be monitored by direct visual observation by a health care professional. Midazolam HCl syrup should only be administered by persons specifically trained in the use of anesthetic drugs and the management of respiratory effects of anesthetic drugs, including respiratory and cardiac resuscitation of patients in the age group being treated. Patient response to sedative agents, and resultant respiratory status, is variable. Regardless of the intended level of sedation or route of administration, sedation is a continuum; a patient may move easily from light to deep sedation, with potential loss of protective reflexes, particularly when coadministered with anesthetic agents, other CNS depressants, and concomitant medications which may potentially cause a more intense and prolonged sedation [see PRECAUTIONS: Drug Interactions] . Sedation guidelines recommend a careful presedation history to determine how a patient’s underlying medical conditions or concomitant medications might affect their response to sedation/analgesia as well as a physical examination including a focused examination of the airway for abnormalities. Midazolam HCl syrup must never be used without individualization of dosage, particularly when used with other medications capable of producing CNS depression. Younger (<6 years of age) pediatric patients may require higher dosages (mg/kg) than older pediatric patients, and may require close monitoring. When midazolam HCl syrup is given in conjunction with opioids or other sedatives, the potential for respiratory depression, airway obstruction, or hypoventilation is increased. For appropriate patient monitoring, see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Monitoring. The recommended dose for pediatric patients is a single dose of 0.25 to 0.5 mg/kg, depending on the status of the patient and desired effect, up to a maximum dose of 20 mg. In general, it is recommended that the dose be individualized and modified based on patient age, level of anxiety, concomitant medications, and medical need [see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS] . The younger (6 months to <6 years of age) and less cooperative patients may require a higher than usual dose up to 1.0 mg/kg. A dose of 0.25 mg/kg may suffice for older (6 to <16 years of age) or cooperative patients, especially if the anticipated intensity and duration of sedation is less critical. For all pediatric patients, a dose of 0.25 mg/kg should be considered when midazolam HCl syrup is administered to patients with cardiac or respiratory compromise, other higher risk surgical patients, and patients who have received concomitant narcotics or other CNS depressants. As with any potential respiratory depressant, these patients must be monitored for signs of cardiorespiratory depression after receiving midazolam HCl syrup. Midazolam HCl syrup has not been studied, nor is it intended for chronic use. USE OF ORAL DISPENSERS AND PIBA 1. Remove the cap. Before inserting the tip of the oral dispenser into bottle adapter, push the plunger completely down toward the tip of the oral dispenser. Insert tip firmly into opening of the bottle adapter. Turn the entire unit (bottle and oral dispenser) upside down. Pull the plunger out slowly until the desired amount of medication is withdrawn into the oral dispenser. Turn the entire unit right side up and remove the oral dispenser slowly from the bottle. The tip of the dispenser may be covered with a tip cap, until time of use. Close bottle with cap after each use. Dispense directly into mouth. Do not mix with any liquid (such as grapefruit juice) prior to dispensing. INSERTION OF PRESS-IN BOTTLE ADAPTER (PIBA) 1. Remove the cap and push bottle adapter into neck of bottle. Close the bottle tightly with cap. This will assure the proper seating of the bottle adapter in the bottle. DISPOSAL OF MIDAZOLAM HCl SYRUP The disposal of Schedule IV controlled substances must be consistent with State and Federal Regulations. plunger.jpg image-1.jpg image-2.jpg image-3.jpg DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Midazolam injection is a potent sedative agent that requires slow administration and individualization of dosage. The potential for these latter effects is increased in debilitated patients, those receiving concomitant medications capable of depressing the CNS, and patients without an endotracheal tube but undergoing a procedure involving the upper airway such as endoscopy or dental ( see Boxed WARNING and WARNINGS ). Midazolam injection should only be administered intramuscularly or intravenously (see WARNINGS ). Monitoring : Patient response to sedative agents, and resultant respiratory status, is variable. Adults and Pediatrics : Sedation guidelines recommend a careful presedation history to determine how a patient's underlying medical conditions or concomitant medications might affect their response to sedation/analgesia as well as a physical examination including a focused examination of the airway for abnormalities. Pediatrics : For deeply sedated pediatric patients a dedicated individual, other than the practitioner performing the procedure, should monitor the patient throughout the procedure. Intravenous access is not thought to be necessary for all pediatric patients sedated for a diagnostic or therapeutic procedure because in some cases the difficulty of gaining intravenous access would defeat the purpose of sedating the child; rather, emphasis should be placed upon having the intravenous equipment available and a practitioner skilled in establishing vascular access in pediatric patients immediately available. USUAL ADULT DOSAGE INTRAMUSCULARLY For preoperative sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia (induction of sleepiness or drowsiness and relief of apprehension and to impair memory of perioperative events). The recommended premedication dose of midazolam for good risk (ASA Physical Status I & II) adult patients below the age of 60 years is 0.07 to 0.08 mg/kg intramuscular (approximately 5 mg intramuscular) administered up to 1 hour before surgery. The dose must be individualized and reduced when intramuscular midazolam is administered to patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, other higher risk surgical patients, patients 60 or more years of age, and patients who have received concomitant narcotics or other CNS depressants (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). The dose of 1 mg intramuscular midazolam may suffice for some older patients if the anticipated intensity and duration of sedation is less critical. As with any potential respiratory depressant, these patients require observation for signs of cardiorespiratory depression after receiving intramuscular midazolam. It can be administered concomitantly with atropine sulfate or scopolamine and reduced doses of narcotics. Individual response will vary with age, physical status and concomitant medications, but may also vary independent of these factors (see WARNINGS concerning cardiac/respiratory arrest/airway obstruction/hypoventilation). Midazolam 1 mg/mL formulation is recommended for sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia for procedures to facilitate slower injection. Healthy Adults Below the Age of 60 : Titrate slowly to the desired effect, (e.g., the initiation of slurred speech). Patients Age 60 or Older, and Debilitated or Chronically Ill Patients : Because the danger of hypoventilation, airway obstruction, or apnea is greater in elderly patients and those with chronic disease states or decreased pulmonary reserve, and because the peak effect may take longer in these patients, increments should be smaller and the rate of injection slower. Maintenance Dose : Additional doses to maintain the desired level of sedation may be given in increments of 25% of the dose used to first reach the sedative endpoint, but again only by slow titration, especially in the elderly and chronically ill or debilitated patient. Unpremedicated Patients : In the absence of premedication, an average adult under the age of 55 years will usually require an initial dose of 0.3 to 0.35 mg/kg for induction, administered over 20 to 30 seconds and allowing 2 minutes for effect. Premedicated Patients : When the patient has received sedative or narcotic premedication, particularly narcotic premedication, the range of recommended doses is 0.15 to 0.35 mg/kg. Narcotic premedication frequently used during clinical trials included fentanyl (1.5 to 2 mcg/kg intravenous, administered 5 minutes before induction), morphine (dosage individualized, up to 0.15 mg/kg intramuscular), and meperidine (dosage individualized, up to 1 mg/kg intramuscular). CONTINUOUS INFUSION For continuous infusion, midazolam 5 mg/mL formulation is recommended diluted to a concentration of 0.5 mg/mL with 0.9% sodium chloride or 5% dextrose in water. Usual Adult Dose : If a loading dose is necessary to rapidly initiate sedation, 0.01 to 0.05 mg/kg (approximately 0.5 to 4 mg for a typical adult) may be given slowly or infused over several minutes. PEDIATRIC PATIENTS UNLIKE ADULT PATIENTS, PEDIATRIC PATIENTS GENERALLY RECEIVE INCREMENTS OF MIDAZOLAM ON A MG/KG BASIS . OBSERVER'S ASSESSMENT OF ALERTNESS/SEDATION (OAA/S) Assessment Categories Responsiveness Speech Facial Expression Eyes Composite Score Responds readily to name spoken in normal tone normal normal clear, no ptosis 5 (alert) Lethargic response to name spoken in normal tone mild slowing or thickening mild relaxation glazed or mild ptosis (less than half the eye) 4 Responds only after name is called loudly and/or repeatedly slurring or prominent slowing marked relaxation (slack jaw) glazed and marked ptosis (half the eye or more) 3 Responds only after mild prodding or shaking few recognizable words – – 2 Does not respond to mild prodding or shaking – – – 1 (deep sleep) FREQUENCY OF OBSERVER'S ASSESSMENT OF ALERTNESS/SEDATION COMPOSITE SCORES IN ONE STUDY OF PEDIATRIC PATIENTS UNDERGOING PROCEDURES WITH INTRAVENOUS MIDAZOLAM FOR SEDATION Age Range (years) OAA/S Score n 1 (deep sleep) 2 3 4 5 (alert) 1–2 16 6 (38%) 4 (25%) 3 (19%) 3 (19%) 0 >2–5 22 9 (41%) 5 (23%) 8 (36%) 0 0 >5–12 34 1 (3%) 6 (18%) 22 (65%) 5 (15%) 0 >12–17 18 0 4 (22%) 14 (78%) 0 0 Total (1–17) 90 16 (18%) 19 (21%) 47 (52%) 8 (9%) 0 INTRAMUSCULARLY USUAL PEDIATRIC DOSE (NON-NEONATAL) For sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia prior to anesthesia or for procedures, intramuscular midazolam can be used to sedate pediatric patients to facilitate less traumatic insertion of an intravenous catheter for titration of additional medication. INTRAVENOUSLY BY INTERMITTENT INJECTION USUAL PEDIATRIC DOSE (NON-NEONATAL) For sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia prior to and during procedures or prior to anesthesia. Pediatric patients less than 6 months of age : Limited information is available in non-intubated pediatric patients less than 6 months of age. Pediatric patients 6 months to 5 years of age : Initial dose 0.05 to 0.1 mg/kg. Pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age : Initial dose 0.025 to 0.05 mg/kg; total dose up to 0.4 mg/kg may be needed to reach the desired endpoint but usually does not exceed 10 mg. Pediatric patients 12 to 16 years of age : Should be dosed as adults. CONTINUOUS INTRAVENOUS INFUSION USUAL PEDIATRIC DOSE (NON-NEONATAL) For sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia in critical care settings. An infusion of midazolam injection has been used in patients whose trachea was intubated but who were allowed to breathe spontaneously. Drug elimination may be delayed in patients receiving erythromycin and/or other P450-3A4 enzyme inhibitors (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ) and in patients with liver dysfunction, low cardiac output (especially those requiring inotropic support), and in neonates. When initiating an infusion with midazolam in hemodynamically compromised patients, the usual loading dose of midazolam should be titrated in small increments and the patient monitored for hemodynamic instability, e.g., hypotension. Based on pharmacokinetic parameters and reported clinical experience in preterm and term neonates WHOSE TRACHEA WAS INTUBATED, continuous intravenous infusions of midazolam injection should be initiated at a rate of 0.03 mg/kg/hr (0.5 mcg/kg/min) in neonates <32 weeks and 0.06 mg/kg/hr (1 mcg/kg/min) in neonates >32 weeks. NOTE : Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Midazolam injection is a potent sedative agent that requires slow administration and individualization of dosage. USUAL ADULT DOSE INTRAMUSCULARLY For preoperative sedation/ The recommended premedication dose of midazolam anxiolysis/amnesia (induction for good risk (ASA Physical Status I & II) adult of sleepiness or drowsiness patients below the age of 60 years is 0.07 to 0.08 mg/kg IM and relief of apprehension (approximately 5 mg IM) administered up to 1 hour before and to impair memory of surgery. perioperative events). For intramuscular use, The dose must be individualized and reduced when IM midazolam is administered to patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, other higher risk midazolam should be surgical patients, patients 60 or more years of age, and injected deep in a patients who have received concomitant narcotics or other CNS large muscle mass. depressants (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). In a study of patients 60 years or older, who did not receive concomitant administration of narcotics, 2 to 3 mg (0.02 to 0.05 mg/kg) of midazolam produced adequate sedation during the pre-operative period. INTRAVENOUSLY Sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia When used for sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia for a procedure, for procedures (see dosage must be individualized and titrated. Midazolam INDICATIONS AND USAGE ): should always be titrated slowly; administer over at least Narcotic premedication 2 minutes and allow an additional 2 or more minutes results in less variability to fully evaluate the sedative effect. Individual response in patient response and a will vary with age, physical status and concomitant reduction in dosage of medications, but may also vary independent of these factors midazolam. (see WARNINGS concerning cardiac/respiratory arrest/airway For peroral procedures, obstruction/hypoventilation). the use of an appropriate topical anesthetic is recommended. For bronchoscopic procedures, the use of narcotic pre- medications is recommended. Midazolam 1 mg/mL 1. Healthy Adults Below the Age of 60: Titrate slowly to the formulation is desired effect (e.g., the initiation of slurred speech). Some recommended for sedation/ patients may respond to as little as 1 mg. No more than anxiolysis/amnesia for 2.5 mg should be given over a period of at least 2 minutes. procedures to facilitate Wait an additional 2 or more minutes to fully evaluate the slower injection. Both the sedative effect. If further titration is necessary, continue to 1 mg/mL and the 5 mg/mL titrate, using small increments, to the appropriate level of formulations may be diluted sedation. Wait an additional 2 or more minutes after each with 0.9% sodium chloride or increment to fully evaluate the sedative effect. A total dose 5% dextrose in water. greater than 5 mg is not usually necessary to reach the desired endpoint. Induction of Anesthesia: For induction of general Individual response to the drug is variable, particularly when a anesthesia, before narcotic premedication is not used. The dosage should be administration of other titrated to the desired effect according to the patient's age and anesthetic agents. clinical status. Injectable midazolam Incremental injections of approximately 25% of the induction can also be used during dose should be given in response to signs of lightening of maintenance of anesthesia and repeated as necessary. anesthesia, for surgical procedures, as a component of balanced anesthesia. CONTINUOUS INFUSION For continuous infusion, Usual Adult Dose: If a loading dose is necessary to rapidly midazolam 5 mg/mL initiate sedation, 0.01 to 0.05 mg/kg (approximately 0.5 to 4 mg formulation is for a typical adult) may be given slowly or infused over several recommended diluted to a minutes. This dose may be repeated at 10 to 15 minute intervals concentration of 0.5 mg/mL until adequate sedation is achieved. For maintenance of sedation, with 0.9% sodium chloride the usual initial infusion rate is 0.02 to 0.10 mg/kg/hr (1 to 7 mg/hr). or 5% dextrose in water. For appropriate patient monitoring, see Boxed WARNING , WARNINGS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Monitoring . OBSERVER'S ASSESSMENT OF ALERTNESS/SEDATION (OAA/S) Assessment Categories Responsiveness Speech Facial Expression Eyes Composite Score Responds readily to normal normal clear, 5 (alert) name spoken in no ptosis normal tone Lethargic response mild slowing mild relaxation glazed or 4 to name spoken or thickening mild ptosis in normal tone (less than half the eye) Responds only after slurring or marked relaxation glazed and 3 name is called loudly prominent (slack jaw) marked ptosis and/or repeatedly slowing (half the eye or more) Responds only few --- --- 2 after mild recognizable prodding or words shaking Does not respond --- --- --- 1 (deep sleep) to mild prodding or shaking FREQUENCY OF OBSERVER'S ASSESSMENT OF ALERTNESS/SEDATION COMPOSITE SCORES IN ONE STUDY OF PEDIATRIC PATIENTS UNDERGOING PROCEDURES WITH INTRAVENOUS MIDAZOLAM FOR SEDATION Age Range (years) n OAA/S Score 1 (deep sleep) 2 3 4 5 (alert) 1 to 2 16 6 (38%) 4 (25%) 3 (19%) 3 (19%) 0 > 2 to 5 22 9 (41%) 5 (23%) 8 (36%) 0 0 > 5 to 12 34 1 (3%) 6 (18%) 22 (65%) 5 (15%) 0 > 12 to 17 18 0 4 (22%) 14 (78%) 0 0 Total (1 to 17) 90 16 (18%) 19 (21%) 47 (52%) 8 (9%) 0 Note: Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. INTRAMUSCULARLY USUAL PEDIATRIC DOSE (NON-NEONATAL) For sedation/anxiolysis/ Sedation after intramuscular midazolam is age and amnesia prior to dose dependent: higher doses may result in deeper and more prolonged anesthesia or for sedation. Doses of 0.1 to 0.15 mg/kg are usually procedures, intramuscular effective and do not prolong emergence from general anesthesia. midazolam can be used For more anxious patients, doses up to 0.5 mg/kg have been to sedate pediatric used. Although not systematically studied, the total dose usually patients to facilitate does not exceed 10 mg. If midazolam is given with an opioid, less traumatic insertion the initial dose of each must be reduced. of an intravenous catheter for titration of additional medication. INTRAVENOUSLY BY INTERMITTENT INJECTION USUAL PEDIATRIC DOSE (NON-NEONATAL) For sedation/anxiolysis/ It should be recognized that the depth of sedation/anxiolysis amnesia prior to and needed for pediatric patients depends on the type of procedure during procedures or to be performed. For example, simple light prior to anesthesia. sedation/anxiolysis in the preoperative period is quite different from the deep sedation and analgesia required for an endoscopic procedure in a child. CONTINUOUS INTRAVENOUS INFUSION USUAL PEDIATRIC DOSE (NON-NEONATAL) For sedation/anxiolysis/ To initiate sedation, an intravenous loading dose of 0.05 to 0.2 mg/kg amnesia in critical care administered over at least 2 to 3 minutes can be used to settings. establish the desired clinical effect IN PATIENTS WHOSE TRACHEA IS INTUBATED. CONTINUOUS INTRAVENOUS INFUSION USUAL NEONATAL DOSE Based on pharmacokinetic parameters and reported clinical For sedation in critical care settings. experience in preterm and term neonates WHOSE TRACHEA WAS INTUBATED, continuous intravenous infusions of midazolam should be initiated at a rate of 0.03 mg/kg/hr (0.5 mcg/kg/min) in neonates < 32 weeks and 0.06 mg/kg/hr (1 mcg/kg/min) in neonates > 32 weeks. The 1 mg/mL formulation of midazolam may be diluted with 0.9% sodium chloride or 5% dextrose in water. Adults and Pediatrics Sedation guidelines recommend a careful presedation history to determine how a patient’s underlying medical conditions or concomitant medications might affect their response to sedation/analgesia as well as a physical examination including a focused examination of the airway for abnormalities. Pediatrics For deeply sedated pediatric patients a dedicated individual, other than the practitioner performing the procedure, should monitor the patient throughout the procedure. USUAL ADULT DOSE INTRAMUSCULARLY For preoperative sedation/ anxiolysis/amnesia(induction of sleepiness or drowsiness and relief of apprehension and to impair memory of perioperative events). The recommended premedication dose of midazolam for good risk (ASA Physical Status I & II) adult patients below the age of 60 years is 0.07 to 0.08 mg/kg IM (approximately 5 mg IM)administered up to 1 hour before surgery. (see WARNINGS concerning cardiac/respiratory arrest/airway obstruction/hypoventilation). The 1 mg/mL formulation may be diluted with 0.9% sodium chloride or 5% dextrose in water. For appropriate patient monitoring, see Boxed WARNING , WARNINGS , Monitoring subsection of DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . OBSERVER’S ASSESSMENT OF ALERTNESS/SEDATION (OAA/S) Assessment Categories Responsiveness Speech Facial Expression Eyes Compositee Score Responds readily to name spoken in normal tone normal normal clear, no ptosis 5 (alert) Lethargic response to name spoken in normal tone mild slowing or thickening mild relaxation glazed or mild ptosis (less than half the eye) 4 Responds only after name is called loudly and/or repeatedly slurring or prominent slowing marked relaxation (slack jaw) glazed and marked ptosis (half the eye or more) 3 Responds only after mild prodding or shaking few recognizable words - - 2 Does not respond to mild prodding or shaking - - - 1 (deep sleep) FREQUENCY OF OBSERVER’S ASSESSMENT OF ALERTNESS/SEDATION COMPOSITE SCORES IN ONE STUDY OF PEDIATRIC PATIENTS UNDERGOING PROCEDURES WITH INTRAVENOUS MIDAZOLAM FOR SEDATION Age Range (years) n OAA/S Score 1 (deep sleep) 2 3 4 5 (alert) 1-2 16 6 (38%) 4 (25%) 3 (19%) 3 (19%) 0 >2-5 22 9 (41%) 5 (23%) 8 (36%) 0 0 >5-12 34 1 (3%) 6 (18%) 22 (65%) 5 (15%) 0 >12-17 18 0 4 (22%) 14 (78%) 0 0 Total (1-17) 90 16 (18%) 19 (21%) 47 (52%) 8 (9%) 0 INTRAMUSCULARLY For sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia prior to anesthesia or for procedures, intramuscular midazolam can be used to sedate pediatric patients to facilitate less traumatic insertion of an intravenous catheter for titration of additional medication. Pediatric Patients 6 Months to 5 Years of Age: Initial dose 0.05 to 0.1 mg/kg; a total dose up to 0.6 mg/kg may be necessary to reach the desired endpoint but usually does not exceed 6 mg. When initiating an infusion with midazolam in hemodynamically compromised patients, the usual loading dose of midazolam hydrochloride should be titrated in small increments and the patient monitored for hemodynamic instability, (e.g., hypotension). USUAL NEONATAL DOSE Based on pharmacokinetic parameters and reported clinical experience in preterm and term neonates WHOSE TRACHEA WAS INTUBATED, continuous intravenous infusions of midazolam injection should be initiated at a rate of 0.03 mg/kg/hr (0.5 mcg/kg/min) in neonates <32 weeks and 0.06 mg/kg/hr (1 mcg/kg/min) in neonates >32 weeks. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION NOTE: CONTAINS BENZYL ALCOHOL (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS: PEDIATRIC USE) The 1 mL and 2 mL Midazolam Injection vials include a cautionary label that extends above the main label and highlights the drug name and strength per total volume. The purpose of the extended label is to prevent medication errors due to the different strengths of Midazolam Injection. Read the label and confirm you have selected the correct medication and strength. Then locate the "Tear Here" point on the label, and remove this cautionary label prior to removing the flip-off cap. Midazolam is a potent sedative agent that requires slow administration and individualization of dosage. The potential for these latter effects is increased in debilitated patients, those receiving concomitant medications capable of depressing the CNS, and patients without an endotracheal tube but undergoing a procedure involving the upper airway such as endoscopy or dental (see BOXED WARNING and WARNINGS.) Reactions such as agitation, involuntary movements, hyperactivity and combativeness have been reported in adult and pediatric patients. Should such reactions occur, caution should be exercised before continuing administration of midazolam (see WARNINGS). Midazolam Injection should only be administered IM or IV (see WARNINGS). Care should be taken to avoid intra-arterial injectin or extravasation (see WARNINGS). Adults and Pediatrics Sedation guidelines recommend a careful presedation history to determine how a patient's underlying medical conditions or concomitant medications might affect their response to sedation/analgesia as well as a physical examination including a focused examination of the airway for abnormalities. Immediate availability of resuscitative drugs and age- and size-appropriate equipment and personnel trained in their use and skilled in airway management should be assured (see WARNINGS). Pediatrics For deeply sedated pediatric patients, a dedicated individual, other than the practitioner performing the procedure, should monitor the patients throughout the procedure. Image4.jpg Image5.jpg Image6.jpg 2 DOSING AND ADMINISTRATION For intravenous injection only. Avoid intra-arterial injection or extravasation. ( 2.1 ) Individualize dosing and titrate to desired clinical response, taking into account patient age, clinical status, and concomitant use of other CNS depressants. ( 2.1 ) See Full Prescribing Information for complete dosage and administration information. ( 2 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Midazolam in sodium chloride injection should only be administered intravenously. Avoid intra-arterial injection or extravasation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ] . Only personnel trained in the administration of procedural sedation, and not involved in the conduct of the diagnostic or therapeutic procedure, should administer Midazolam in Sodium Chloride Injection. Administering personnel must be trained in the detection and management of airway obstruction, hypoventilation, and apnea, including the maintenance of a patent airway, supportive ventilation, and cardiovascular resuscitation. Supplemental oxygen, resuscitative drugs, and age- and size-appropriate equipment for bag/valve/mask assisted ventilation must be immediately available during administration of midazolam in sodium chloride injection. A benzodiazepine reversal agent should be immediately available. Continuously monitor vital signs during sedation and through the recovery period [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Midazolam must never be used without individualization of dosage particularly when used with other medications capable of producing central nervous system depression [ Warnings and Precautions (5.2 )] . Midazolam in sodium chloride injection can cause respiratory depression. It is a potent sedative agent that requires slow administration and individualization of dosage. Continuously monitor patients for early signs of hypoventilation, airway obstruction, and apnea using capnography, pulse oximetry, and clinical assessment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3 )]. Should such reactions occur, the response to each dose of midazolam and all other drugs, including local anesthetics, should be evaluated before proceeding. Reversal of such responses with flumazenil has been reported in pediatric patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] . Visually inspect parenteral drug products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. If solution is discolored or particulate matter is present, do not use. 2.2 General Dosing Information Individualize dosing and titrate to desired clinical response, taking into account patient age, clinical status, and concomitant use of other CNS depressants. Titrate to effect with multiple small doses while continuously monitoring respiratory and cardiac function (i.e., pulse oximetry). To minimize the potential for oversedation, allow adequate time between doses to achieve peak central nervous system effect (3 to 5 minutes). Pediatrics : Pediatric patients generally require higher dosages of midazolam (mg/kg) than adults. For deeply sedated pediatric patients a dedicated individual, other than the practitioner performing the procedure, should monitor the patient throughout the procedure. Elderly and Debilitated Patients Intravenous doses of midazolam should be decreased for elderly and for debilitated patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6 )] . These patients will also probably take longer to recover completely after midazolam administration for the induction of anesthesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8 )] . 2.3 Dosage Recommendations Table 1 provides dosing recommendations for adult, pediatric, and neonatal patients. Table 1. Dosing Recommendations for Continuous Intravenous Infusion in Adult, Pediatric, and Neonatal Patients ADULT PATIENTS If a loading dose is necessary to rapidly initiate sedation, 0.01 mg/kg to 0.05 mg/kg (approximately 0.5 mg to 4 mg for a typical adult) may be given slowly or infused over several minutes. For maintenance of sedation, the usual initial infusion rate is 0.02 mg/kg/hr to 0.10 mg/kg/hr (1 mg/hr to 7 mg/hr). Use the lowest recommended doses in patients with residual effects from anesthetic drugs, or in those concurrently receiving other sedatives or opioids. Titrate the infusion rate to the desired level of sedation, taking into account the patient's age, clinical status and current medications. Assess sedation at regular intervals and adjust the midazolam infusion rate. As a group, pediatric patients generally require higher dosages of midazolam (mg/kg) than adults. Younger (less than six years) pediatric patients may require higher dosages (mg/kg) than older pediatric patients. In obese pediatric patients, calculate the dose based on ideal body weight. Titrate the dose to the desired level of sedation. Assess for desired level of sedation and vital signs at regular intervals. PRETERM AND TERM Based on pharmacokinetic parameters and reported clinical experience in NEONATAL PATIENTS preterm and term neonates WHOSE TRACHEA WAS INTUBATED, initiate continuous intravenous infusions of midazolam in sodium chloride injection at a rate of 0.03 mg/kg/hr (0.5 mcg/kg/min) in neonates <32 weeks and 0.06 mg/kg/hr (1 mcg/kg/min) in neonates >32 weeks. Frequently assess the rate of infusion, particularly after the first 24 hours so as to administer the lowest possible effective dose and reduce the potential for drug accumulation. When sedating preterm and former preterm neonates WHOSE TRACHEA WAS NOT INTUBATED, monitor respiratory parameters due to an increased risk of apnea. 2.4 Safe Discontinuation of Midazolam in Sodium Chloride Injection After Long-Term Use If midazolam in sodium chloride injection is administered long-term (for several days to weeks), do not abruptly discontinue. Gradually taper the dosage in physically-dependent patients using a tapering schedule that is individualized to the patient. ( see Warnings and Precautions (5.5 ) . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Note: CONTAINS BENZYL ALCOHOL (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use) Midazolam hydrochloride injection is a potent sedative agent that requires slow administration and individualization of dosage.
Warnings: WARNINGS Personnel and Equipment for Monitoring and Resuscitation Prior to the intravenous administration of midazolam in any dose, the immediate availability of oxygen, resuscitative drugs, age- and size-appropriate equipment for bag/valve/mask ventilation and intubation, and skilled personnel for the maintenance of a patent airway and support of ventilation should be ensured. Patients should be continuously monitored for early signs of hypoventilation, airway obstruction, or apnea with means readily available (e.g., pulse oximetry). Hypoventilation, airway obstruction, and apnea can lead to hypoxia and/or cardiac arrest unless effective countermeasures are taken immediately. The immediate availability of specific reversal agents (flumazenil) is highly recommended. Vital signs should continue to be monitored during the recovery period. Because intravenous midazolam can depress respiration (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ), especially when used concomitantly with opioid agonists and other sedatives (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ), it should be used for sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia only in the presence of personnel skilled in early detection of hypoventilation, maintaining a patent airway, and supporting ventilation. When used for sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia, midazolam should always be titrated slowly in adult or pediatric patients. Adverse hemodynamic events have been reported in pediatric patients with cardiovascular instability; rapid intravenous administration should also be avoided in this population (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION for complete information). Risks from Concomitant Use With Opioids Concomitant use of benzodiazepines, including midazolam, and opioids may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. If a decision is made to use midazolam concomitantly with opioids, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation (see PRECAUTIONS ; Drug Interactions ). Risk of Respiratory Adverse Events Serious cardiorespiratory adverse events have occurred after administration of midazolam. These have included respiratory depression, airway obstruction, oxygen desaturation, apnea, respiratory arrest and/or cardiac arrest, sometimes resulting in death or permanent neurologic injury. There have also been rare reports of hypotensive episodes requiring treatment during or after diagnostic or surgical manipulations particularly in adult or pediatric patients with hemodynamic instability. Hypotension occurred more frequently in the sedation studies in patients premedicated with a narcotic. Individualization of Dosage Midazolam must never be used without individualization of dosage particularly when used with other medications capable of producing central nervous system depression. See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION for complete information. Other Adverse Events Reactions such as agitation, involuntary movements (including tonic/clonic movements and muscle tremor), hyperactivity and combativeness have been reported in both adult and pediatric patients. These reactions may be due to inadequate or excessive dosing or improper administration of midazolam hydrochloride; however, consideration should be given to the possibility of cerebral hypoxia or true paradoxical reactions. Should such reactions occur, the response to each dose of midazolam hydrochloride and all other drugs, including local anesthetics, should be evaluated before proceeding. Reversal of such responses with flumazenil has been reported in pediatric patients. Concomitant Use of Central Nervous System Depressants Concomitant use of barbiturates, alcohol or other central nervous system depressants may increase the risk of hypoventilation, airway obstruction, desaturation, or apnea and may contribute to profound and/or prolonged drug effect. Narcotic premeditation also depresses the ventilatory response to carbon dioxide stimulation. Debilitation and Comorbid Considerations Higher risk adult and pediatric surgical patients, elderly patients and debilitated adult and pediatric patients require lower dosages, whether or not concomitant sedating medications have been administered. Adult or pediatric patients with COPD are unusually sensitive to the respiratory depressant effect of midazolam hydrochloride. Pediatric and adult patients undergoing procedures involving the upper airway such as upper endoscopy or dental care, are particularly vulnerable to episodes of desaturation and hypoventilation due to partial airway obstruction. Adult and pediatric patients with chronic renal failure and patients with congestive heart failure eliminate midazolam more slowly (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ). Because elderly patients frequently have inefficient function of one or more organ systems and because dosage requirements have been shown to decrease with age, reduced initial dosage of midazolam hydrochloride is recommended, and the possibility of profound and/or prolonged effect should be considered. Injectable midazolam should not be administered to adult or pediatric patients in shock or coma, or in acute alcohol intoxication with depression of vital signs. Particular care should be exercised in the use of intravenous midazolam in adult or pediatric patients with uncompensated acute illnesses, such as severe fluid or electrolyte disturbances. Risk of Intra-arterial Injection There have been limited reports of intra-arterial injection of midazolam hydrochloride. Adverse events have included local reactions, as well as isolated reports of seizure activity in which no clear causal relationship was established. Precautions against unintended intra-arterial injection should be taken. Extravasation should also be avoided. The safety and efficacy of midazolam following nonintravenous and nonintramuscular routes of administration have not been established. Midazolam hydrochloride should only be administered intramuscularly or intravenously. Return to Full Cognitive Function Midazolam is associated with a high incidence of partial or complete impairment of recall for the next several hours. The decision as to when patients who have received injectable midazolam, particularly on an outpatient basis, may again engage in activities requiring complete mental alertness, operate hazardous machinery or drive a motor vehicle must be individualized. Gross tests of recovery from the effects of midazolam (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY) cannot be relied upon to predict reaction time under stress. It is recommended that no patient operate hazardous machinery or a motor vehicle until the effects of the drug, such as drowsiness, have subsided or until 1 full day after anesthesia and surgery, whichever is longer. For pediatric patients, particular care should be taken to assure safe ambulation. Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome Use of Midazolam Injection, USP late in pregnancy can result in sedation (respiratory depression, lethargy, hypotonia) and/or withdrawal symptoms (hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties) in the neonate (see PRECAUTIONS: Pregnancy). Monitor neonates exposed to Midazolam Injection, USP during pregnancy or labor for signs of sedation and monitor neonates exposed to Midazolam Injection, USP during pregnancy for signs of withdrawal; manage these Neonatal accordingly. Exposure to excessive amounts of benzyl alcohol has been associated with toxicity (hypotension, metabolic acidosis), particularly in neonates, and an increased incidence of kernicterus, particularly in small preterm infants. There have been rare reports of deaths, primarily in preterm infants, associated with exposure to excessive amounts of benzyl alcohol. The amount of benzyl alcohol from medications is usually considered negligible compared to that received in flush solutions containing benzyl alcohol. Administration of high dosages of medications (including midazolam hydrochloride) containing this preservative must take into account the total amount of benzyl alcohol administered. The recommended dosage range of midazolam hydrochloride for preterm and term infants includes amounts of benzyl alcohol well below that associated with toxicity; however, the amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicitymay occur is not known. If the patient requires more than the recommended dosages or other medications containing this preservative, the practitioner must consider the dailymetabolic load of benzyl alcohol from these combined sources (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use). Pediatric Neurotoxicity: Published animal studies demonstrate that the administration of anesthetic and sedation drugs that block NMDA receptors and/or potentiate GABA activity increase neuronal apoptosis in the developing brain and result in long-term cognitive deficits when used for longer than 3 hours. The clinical significance of these findings is not clear. However, based on the available data, the window of vulnerability to these changes is believed to correlate with exposures in the third trimester of gestation through the first several months of life, but may extend out to approximately three years of age in humans (see PRECAUTIONS/ Pregnancy and Pediatric Use and Animal Pharmacology and/or Toxicology ). Some published studies in children suggest that similar deficits may occur after repeated or prolonged exposures to anesthetic agents early in life and may result in adverse cognitive or behavioral effects. These studies have substantial limitations, and it is not clear if the observed effects are due to the anesthetic/sedation drug administration or other factors such as the surgery or underlying illness. Anesthetic and sedation drugs are a necessary part of the care of children and pregnant women needing surgery, other procedures, or tests that cannot be delayed, and no specific medications have been shown to be safer than any other. Decisions regarding the timing of any elective procedures requiring anesthesia should take into consideration the benefits of the procedure weighed against the potential risks. WARNINGS: Personnel and Equipment for Monitoring and Resuscitation Prior to the intravenous administration of midazolam in any dose, the immediate availability of oxygen, resuscitative drugs, age- and size-appropriate equipment for bag/valve/mask ventilation and intubation, and skilled personnel for the maintenance of a patent airway and support of ventilation should be ensured. If a decision is made to use midazolam concomitantly with opioids, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ). These reactions may be due to inadequate or excessive dosing or improper administration of midazolam; however, consideration should be given to the possibility of cerebral hypoxia or true paradoxical reactions. Should such reactions occur, the response to each dose of midazolam and all other drugs, including local anesthetics, should be evaluated before proceeding. Narcotic premedication also depresses the ventilatory response to carbon dioxide stimulation. Adult or pediatric patients with COPD are unusually sensitive to the respiratory depressant effect of midazolam. Because elderly patients frequently have inefficient function of one or more organ systems and because dosage requirements have been shown to decrease with age, reduced initial dosage of midazolam is recommended, and the possibility of profound and/or prolonged effect should be considered. Risk of Intra-arterial Injection There have been limited reports of intra-arterial injection of midazolam. Midazolam should only be administered intramuscularly or intravenously. Gross tests of recovery from the effects of midazolam (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) cannot be relied upon to predict reaction time under stress. It is recommended that no patient operate hazardous machinery or a motor vehicle until the effects of the drug, such as drowsiness, have subsided or until one full day after anesthesia and surgery, whichever is longer. Usage in Pregnancy An increased risk of congenital malformations associated with the use of benzodiazepine drugs (diazepam and chlordiazepoxide) has been suggested in several studies. If this drug is used during pregnancy, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. Withdrawal symptoms of the barbiturate type have occurred after the discontinuation of benzodiazepines (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ). Usage in Preterm Infants and Neonates Rapid injection should be avoided in the neonatal population. Midazolam administered rapidly as an intravenous injection (less than 2 minutes) has been associated with severe hypotension in neonates, particularly when the patient has also received fentanyl. Likewise, severe hypotension has been observed in neonates receiving a continuous infusion of midazolam who then receive a rapid intravenous injection of fentanyl. Seizures have been reported in several neonates following rapid intravenous administration. The neonate also has reduced and/or immature organ function and is also vulnerable to profound and/or prolonged respiratory effects of midazolam. Administration of high dosages of medications (including midazolam) containing this preservative must take into account the total amount of benzyl alcohol administered. The recommended dosage range of midazolam for preterm and term infants includes amounts of benzyl alcohol well below that associated with toxicity; however, the amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occur is not known. If the patient requires more than the recommended dosages or other medications containing this preservative, the practitioner must consider the daily metabolic load of benzyl alcohol from these combined sources (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ). Pediatric Neurotoxicity Published animal studies demonstrate that the administration of anesthetic and sedation drugs that block NMDA receptors and/or potentiate GABA activity increase neuronal apoptosis in the developing brain and result in long-term cognitive deficits when used for longer than 3 hours. However, based on the available data, the window of vulnerability to these changes is believed to correlate with exposures in the third trimester of gestation through the first several months of life, but may extend out to approximately three years of age in humans (see PRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy and Pediatric Use and Animal Toxicology and/or Pharmacology ). Anesthetic and sedation drugs are a necessary part of the care of children needing surgery, other procedures, or tests that cannot be delayed, and no specific medications have been shown to be safer than any other. WARNINGS Personnel and Equipment for Monitoring and Resuscitation Midazolam HCl syrup should be used only in hospital or ambulatory care settings, including physicians’ and dentists’ offices, that are equipped to provide continuous monitoring of respiratory and cardiac function. Midazolam HCl syrup must only be administered to patients if they will be monitored by direct visual observation by a health care professional. If midazolam HCl syrup will be administered in combination with other anesthetic drugs or drugs which depress the central nervous system, patients must be monitored by persons specifically trained in the use of these drugs and, in particular, in the management of respiratory effects of these drugs, including respiratory and cardiac resuscitation of patients in the age group being treated. For deeply sedated patients, a dedicated individual whose sole responsibility is to observe the patient, other than the practitioner performing the procedure, should monitor the patient throughout the procedure. Patients should be continuously monitored for early signs of hypoventilation, airway obstruction, or apnea with means for detection readily available (eg, pulse oximetry). Because midazolam can depress respiration [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY] , especially when used concomitantly with opioid agonists and other sedatives [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION] , it should be used for sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia only in the presence of personnel skilled in early detection of hypoventilation, maintaining a patent airway, and supporting ventilation. Episodes of oxygen desaturation, respiratory depression, apnea, and airway obstruction have been occasionally reported following premedication (sedation prior to induction of anesthesia) with oral midazolam; such events are markedly increased when oral midazolam is combined with other central nervous system depressing agents and in patients with abnormal airway anatomy, patients with cyanotic congenital heart disease, or patients with sepsis or severe pulmonary disease. Risks from Concomitant Use with Opioids Concomitant use of benzodiazepines, including midazolam, and opioids may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma and death. If a decision is made to use midazolam concomitantly with opioids, monitor patients for respiratory depression and sedation [see PRECAUTIONS/Drug Interactions] . Risk of Respiratory Adverse Events Serious respiratory adverse events have occurred after administration of oral midazolam, most often when midazolam was used in combination with other central nervous system depressants. These adverse events have included respiratory depression, airway obstruction, oxygen desaturation, apnea, and rarely, respiratory and/or cardiac arrest [see BOX WARNING] . When oral midazolam is administered as the sole agent at recommended doses respiratory depression, airway obstruction, oxygen desaturation, and apnea occur infrequently [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION] . Prior to the administration of midazolam in any dose, the immediate availability of oxygen, resuscitative drugs, age- and size-appropriate equipment for bag/valve/mask ventilation and intubation, and skilled personnel for the maintenance of a patent airway and support of ventilation should be ensured. Individualization of Dosage Midazolam HCl syrup must never be used without individualization of dosage, particularly when used with other medications capable of producing central nervous system depression. Consideration should be given to the possibility of paradoxical reaction. Reversal of such responses with flumazenil has been reported in pediatric and adult patients. Drug-Drug Interactions Coadministration of oral midazolam in patients who are taking ketoconazole and intraconazole, and saquinavir has been shown to result in large increases in Cmax and AUC of midazolam due to a decrease in plasma clearance of midazolam [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacokinetics: Special Populations: Drug-Drug Interactions and PRECAUTIONS] . Due to the potential for intense and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression, midazolam syrup should only be coadministered with these medications if absolutely necessary and with appropriate equipment and personnel available to respond to respiratory insufficiency. Debilitation and Comorbidity Considerations Higher risk pediatric surgical patients may require lower doses, whether or not concomitant sedating medications have been administered. Pediatric patients with cardiac or respiratory compromise may be unusually sensitive to the respiratory depressant effect of midazolam. Pediatric patients undergoing procedures involving the upper airway such as upper endoscopy or dental care, are particularly vulnerable to episodes of desaturation and hypoventilation due to partial airway obstruction. Patients with chronic renal failure and patients with congestive heart failure eliminate midazolam more slowly [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY] . Return to Cognitive Function Midazolam is associated with a high incidence of partial or complete impairment of recall for the next several hours. The decision as to when patients who have received midazolam HCl syrup, particularly on an outpatient basis, may again engage in activities requiring complete mental alertness, operate hazardous machinery or drive a motor vehicle must be individualized. Gross tests of recovery from the effects of midazolam HCl syrup [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY] cannot be relied upon to predict reaction time under stress. Particular care should be taken to assure safe ambulation. Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome Use of midazolam HCl syrup late in pregnancy can result in sedation (respiratory depression, lethargy, hypotonia) and/or withdrawal symptoms (hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties) in the neonate ( see PRECAUTIONS: Pregnancy). Monitor neonates exposed to midazolam HCl syrup during pregnancy or labor for signs of sedation and monitor neonates exposed to midazolam HCl syrup during pregnancy for signs of withdrawal; manage these neonates accordingly. Usage in Preterm Infants and Neonates Midazolam HCl syrup has not been studied in patients less than 6 months of age. However, based on the available data, the window of vulnerability to these changes is believed to correlate with exposures in the third trimester of gestation through the first several months of life, but may extend out to approximately three years of age in humans [see PRECAUTIONS; Pregnancy, Pediatric Use and ANIMAL PHARMACOLOGY AND/OR TOXICOLOGY] . Patients should be continuously monitored for early signs of hypoventilation, airway obstruction, or apnea, with means readily available (e.g., pulse oximetry). Because intravenous midazolam can depress respiration (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ), especially when used concomitantly with opioid agonists and other sedatives (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ), it should be used for sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia only in the presence of personnel skilled in early detection of hypoventilation, maintaining a patent airway and supporting ventilation. If a decision is made to use midazolam concomitantly with opioids, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation (see PRECAUTIONS; Drug Interactions ). Neonatal Sedation and Withdrawal Syndrome Use of midazolam late in pregnancy can result in sedation (respiratory depression, lethargy, hypotonia) and/or withdrawal symptoms (hyperreflexia, irritability, restlessness, tremors, inconsolable crying, and feeding difficulties) in the neonate (see PRECAUTIONS: Pregnancy ). Monitor neonates exposed to midazolam during pregnancy or labor for signs of sedation and monitor neonates exposed to midazolam during pregnancy for signs of withdrawal; manage these neonates accordingly. However, based on the available data, the window of vulnerability to these changes is believed to correlate with exposures in the third trimester of gestation through the first several months of life, but may extend out to approximately three years of age in humans (see PRECAUTIONS, Pregnancy and Pediatric Use and ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY AND/OR PHARMACOLOGY ). If a decision is made to use midazolam concomitantly with opioids, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions ). WARNINGS Personnel and Equipment for Monitoring and Resuscitation Prior to the intravenous administration of midazolam hydrochloride in any dose, the immediate availability of oxygen, resuscitative drugs, age- and size-appropriate equipment for bag/valve/mask ventilation and intubation, and skilled personnel for the maintenance of a patent airway and support of ventilation should be ensured. Individualization of Dosage Midazolam hydrochloride must never be used without individualization of dosage particularly when used with other medications capable of producing central nervous system depression (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION for complete information). The safety and efficacy of midazolam following non-intravenous and non-intramuscular routes of administration have not been established. WARNINGS Personnel and Equipment for Monitoring and Resuscitation Prior to the intravenouse administration of midazolam in any dose, the immediate availability of oxygen, resuscitative drugs, age- and size-appropriate equipment for bag/valve/mask ventilation and intubation, and skilled personnel for the maintenance of a patent airway and support of ventilation should be ensured. Because intravenous midazolam can depress respiration (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY), especially when used concomitantly with opioid agonists and other sedatives (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION), it should be used for sedation/anxiolysis/amnesia only in the presence of personnel skilled in early detection of hypoventilation, maintaining a patent airway, and supporting ventilation. Adverse hemodynamic events have been reported in pediatric patients with cardiovascular instability; rapid intravenous administration should also be avoided in this population. If a decision is made to use midazolam concomitantly with opioids, monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation (see PRECAUTIONS; DRUG INTERACTIONS). Adult and pediatric patients with chronic renal failure and patients with congestive heart failure eliminate midazolam more slowly (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). Because elderly patients frequently have inefficient function of one or more organ systems, and because dosage requirements have been shown to decrease with age, reduced initial dosage of midazolam is recommended, and the possibility of profound and/or prolonged effect should be considered. Withdrawal symptoms of the barbiturate type have occurred after the discontinuation of benzodiazepines (see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE section). If the patient requires more than the recommended dosages or other medications containing this preservative, the practitioner must consider the daily metabolic load of benzyl alcohol from these combined sources (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS: PEDIATRIC USE). However, based on the available data, the window of vulnerability to these changes is believed to correlate with exposures in the third trimester of gestation through the first several months of life, but may extend out to approximately three years of age in humans (See PRECAUTIONS: PREGNANCY AND PEDIATRIC USE and ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY AND/OR PHARMACOLOGY).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Midazolam injection is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to the drug. Benzodiazepines are contraindicated in patients with acute narrow-angle glaucoma. Benzodiazepines may be used in patients with open-angle glaucoma only if they are receiving appropriate therapy. Measurements of intraocular pressure in patients without eye disease show a moderate lowering following induction with midazolam hydrochloride; patients with glaucoma have not been studied. Midazolam is not intended for intrathecal or epidural administration due to the presence of the preservative benzyl alcohol in the dosage form. Midazolam injection is contraindicated for use in premature infants because the formulation contains benzyl alcohol (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ). CONTRAINDICATIONS: Injectable midazolam is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to the drug. Measurements of intraocular pressure in patients without eye disease show a moderate lowering following induction with midazolam; patients with glaucoma have not been studied. Midazolam is contraindicated for use in premature infants because the formulation contains benzyl alcohol (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ). CONTRAINDICATIONS Midazolam HCl syrup is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to the drug or allergies to cherries or formulation excipients. Measurements of intraocular pressure in patients without eye disease show a moderate lowering following induction of general anesthesia with injectable midazolam; patients with glaucoma have not been studied. CONTRAINDICATIONS Injectable midazolam is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to the drug. CONTRAINDICATIONS Injectable midazolam hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to the drug. Midazolam Injection is not intended for intrathecal or epidural administration due to the presence of the preservative benzyl alcohol in the dosage form. midazolam Injection is contraindicated for use in premature infants because the formulation contains benzyl alcohol. (See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS: PEDIATRIC USE ). 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Midazolam in sodium chloride injection is contraindicated in patients with: Known hypersensitivity to midazolam Acute narrow-angle glaucoma Midazolam in sodium chloride injection is contraindicated in patients with: known hypersensitivity to midazolam. ( 4 ) acute narrow-angle glaucoma. ( 4 ) Midazolam hydrochloride is not intended for intrathecal or epidural administration due to the presence of the preservative benzyl alcohol in the dosage form.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions: Effect of Concomitant Use of Benzodiazepines and Opioids The concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids increases the risk of respiratory depression because of actions at different receptor sites in the CNS that control respiration. Benzodiazepines interact at GABA A sites and opioids interact primarily at mu receptors. When benzodiazepines and opioids are combined, the potential for benzodiazepines to significantly worsen opioid-related respiratory depression exists. Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids, and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Other CNS Depressants The sedative effect of intravenous midazolam is accentuated by any concomitantly administered medication, which depresses the central nervous system, particularly narcotics (e.g., morphine, meperidine and fentanyl) and also secobarbital and droperidol. Consequently, the dosage of midazolam should be adjusted according to the type and amount of concomitant medications administered and the desired clinical response (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ). Other Drug Interactions Caution is advised when midazolam is administered concomitantly with drugs that are known to inhibit the P450-3A4 enzyme system such as cimetidine (not ranitidine), erythromycin, diltiazem, verapamil, ketoconazole and itraconazole. These drug interactions may result in prolonged sedation due to a decrease in plasma clearance of midazolam. The effect of single oral doses of 800 mg cimetidine and 300 mg ranitidine on steady-state concentrations of midazolam was examined in a randomized crossover study (n=8). Cimetidine increased the mean midazolam steady-state concentration from 57 to 71 ng/mL. Ranitidine increased the mean steady-state concentration to 62 ng/mL. No change in choice reaction time or sedation index was detected after dosing with the H2 receptor antagonists. In a placebo-controlled study, erythromycin administered as a 500 mg dose, tid, for 1 week (n=6), reduced the clearance of midazolam following a single 0.5 mg/kg IV dose. The half-life was approximately doubled. Caution is advised when midazolam is administered to patients receiving erythromycin since this may result in a decrease in the plasma clearance of midazolam. The effects of diltiazem (60 mg tid) and verapamil (80 mg tid) on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of midazolam were investigated in a three-way crossover study (n=9). The half-life of midazolam increased from 5 to 7 hours when midazolam was taken in conjunction with verapamil or diltiazem. No interaction was observed in healthy subjects between midazolam and nifedipine. In a placebo-controlled study, saquinavir administered as a 1200 mg dose, tid, for 5 days (n=12), a 56% reduction in the clearance of midazolam following a single 0.05 mg/kg IV dose was observed. A moderate reduction in induction dosage requirements of thiopental (about 15%) has been noted following use of intramuscular midazolam hydrochloride for premedication in adults. The intravenous administration of midazolam hydrochloride decreases the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of halothane required for general anesthesia. This decrease correlates with the dose of midazolam hydrochloride administered; no similar studies have been carried out in pediatric patients but there is no scientific reason to expect that pediatric patients would respond differently than adults. Although the possibility of minor interactive effects has not been fully studied, midazolam and pancuronium have been used together in patients without noting clinically significant changes in dosage, onset or duration in adults. Midazolam hydrochloride does not protect against the characteristic circulatory changes noted after administration of succinylcholine or pancuronium and does not protect against the increased intracranial pressure noted following administration of succinylcholine. Midazolam does not cause a clinically significant change in dosage, onset or duration of a single intubating dose of succinylcholine; no similar studies have been carried out in pediatric patients but there is no scientific reason to expect that pediatric patients would respond differently than adults. No significant adverse interactions with commonly used premedications or drugs used during anesthesia and surgery (including atropine, scopolamine, glycopyrrolate, diazepam, hydroxyzine, d-tubocurarine, succinylcholine and other nondepolarizing muscle relaxants) or topical local anesthetics (including lidocaine, dyclonine HCl and Cetacaine) have been observed in adults or pediatric patients. In neonates, however, severe hypotension has been reported with concomitant administration of fentanyl. This effect has been observed in neonates on an infusion of midazolam who received a rapid injection of fentanyl and in patients on an infusion of fentanyl who have received a rapid injection of midazolam. Drug Interactions Effect of Concomitant Use of Benzodiazepines and Opioids The concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids increases the risk of respiratory depression because of actions at different receptor sites in the CNS that control respiration. Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation. Other CNS Depressants The sedative effect of intravenous midazolam is accentuated by any concomitantly administered medication, which depresses the central nervous system, particularly opioids (e.g., morphine, meperidine and fentanyl) and also secobarbital and droperidol. The effect of single oral doses of 800 mg cimetidine and 300 mg ranitidine on steady-state concentrations of oral midazolam was examined in a randomized crossover study (n=8). In a placebo-controlled study, erythromycin administered as a 500 mg dose, three times a day, for 1 week (n=6), reduced the clearance of midazolam following a single 0.5 mg/kg IV dose. The effects of diltiazem (60 mg three times a day) and verapamil (80 mg three times a day) on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of oral midazolam were investigated in a three-way crossover study (n=9). In a placebo-controlled study where saquinavir or placebo was administered orally as a 1,200 mg dose, three times a day, for 5 days (n=12), a 56% reduction in the clearance of midazolam following a single 0.05 mg/kg IV dose was observed. A moderate reduction in induction dosage requirements of thiopental (about 15%) has been noted following use of intramuscular midazolam for premedication in adults. The intravenous administration of midazolam decreases the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of halothane required for general anesthesia. This decrease correlates with the dose of midazolam administered; no similar studies have been carried out in pediatric patients but there is no scientific reason to expect that pediatric patients would respond differently than adults. Midazolam does not protect against the characteristic circulatory changes noted after administration of succinylcholine or pancuronium and does not protect against the increased intracranial pressure noted following administration of succinylcholine. Benzodiazepines interact at GABA A sites, and opioids interact primarily at mu receptors. Other CNS Depressants One case was reported of inadequate sedation with chloral hydrate and later with oral midazolam due to a possible interaction with methylphenidate administered chronically in a 2-year-old boy with a history of Williams syndrome. The difficulty in achieving adequate sedation may have been the result of decreased absorption of the sedatives due to both the gastrointestinal effects and stimulant effects of methylphenidate. The sedative effect of midazolam HCl syrup is accentuated by any concomitantly administered medication which depresses the central nervous system, particularly opioids (e.g., morphine, meperidine, and fentanyl), propofol, ketamine, nitrous oxide, secobarbital and droperidol. Consequently, the dose of midazolam HCl syrup should be adjusted according to the type and amount of concomitant medications administered and the desired clinical response [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION] . No significant adverse interactions with common premedications (such as atropine, scopolamine, glycopyrrolate, diazepam, hydroxyzine, and other muscle relaxants) or local anesthetics have been observed. Inhibitors of CYP3A4 Isozymes Caution is advised when midazolam is administered concomitantly with drugs that are known to inhibit the cytochrome P450 3A4 enzyme system (ie, some drugs in the drug classes of azole antimycotics, protease inhibitors, calcium channel antagonists, and macrolide antibiotics). Drugs such as diltiazem, erythromycin, fluconazole, itraconazole, ketoconazole, saquinavir, and verapamil were shown to significantly increase the C max and AUC of orally administered midazolam. These drug interactions may result in increased and prolonged sedation due to a decrease in plasma clearance of midazolam. Although not studied, the potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors ritonavir and nelfinavir may cause intense and prolonged sedation and respiratory depression due to a decrease in plasma clearance of midazolam. Caution is advised when midazolam HCl syrup is used concomitantly with these drugs. Dose adjustments should be considered and possible prolongation and intensity of effect should be anticipated [see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Pharmacokinetics: Special Populations: Drug-Drug Interactions] . Inducers of CYP3A4 Isozymes Cytochrome P450 inducers, such as rifampin, carbamazepine, and phenytoin, induce metabolism and cause a markedly decreased C max and AUC of oral midazolam in adult studies. Although clinical studies have not been performed, phenobarbital is expected to have the same effect. Caution is advised when administering midazolam HCl syrup to patients receiving these medications and if necessary dose adjustments should be considered. In a placebo-controlled study, erythromycin administered as a 500 mg dose, three times a day, for 1 week (n=6), reduced the clearance of midazolam following a single 0.5 mg/kg intravenous dose. The effects of diltiazem (60 mg three times a day) and verapamil (80 mg three times a day) on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of midazolam were investigated in a three-way crossover study (n=9). In a placebo-controlled study, where saquinavir or placebo was administered orally as a 1200 mg dose, three times a day, for 5 days (n=12), a 56% reduction in the clearance of midazolam following a single 0.05 mg/kg intravenous dose was observed. Benzodiazepines interact at GABAA sites and opioids interact primarily at mu receptors. Other CNS Depressants The sedative effect of intravenous midazolam is accentuated by any concomitantly administered medication which depresses the central nervous system, particularly opioids (e.g., morphine, meperidine and fentanyl) and also secobarbital and droperidol. In a placebo-controlled study where saquinavir or placebo was administered orally as a 1200 mg dose, three times a day, for 5 days (n=12), a 56% reduction in the clearance of midazolam following a single 0.05 mg/kg IV dose was observed. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Opioid Analgesics and Other Sedative Hypnotics : Risk of respiratory depression is increased ( 7.1 ) Cytochrome P450-3A4 Inhibitors : May result in prolonged sedation due to decreased plasma clearance of midazolam. ( 7.2 ) 7.1 Opioid Analgesics and Other Sedative Hypnotics The concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids increases the risk of respiratory depression because of actions at different receptor sites in the CNS that control respiration. The sedative effect of intravenous midazolam is accentuated by any concomitantly administered medication which depresses the central nervous system, particularly opioids (e.g., morphine, meperidine and fentanyl) and also secobarbital and droperidol. Consequently, the dosage of midazolam should be adjusted according to the type and amount of concomitant medications administered and the desired clinical response [see Dosage and Administration (2) ]. 7.2 Cytochrome P450-3A4 Inhibitors Concomitant administration with drugs that are known to inhibit the P450-3A4 enzyme system, such as cimetidine (not ranitidine), erythromycin, diltiazem, verapamil, ketoconazole and itraconazole, may result in prolonged sedation due to a decrease in plasma clearance of midazolam. 7.3 Saquinavir In a placebo-controlled study, saquinavir administered as a 1200 mg dose, tid, for 5 days (n=12), a 56% reduction in the clearance of midazolam following a single 0.05 mg/kg intravenous dose was observed. 7.4 Thiopental A moderate reduction in induction dosage requirements of thiopental (about 15%) has been noted following use of intramuscular midazolam for premedication in adults. 7.5 Halothane The intravenous administration of midazolam decreases the minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of halothane required for general anesthesia. 7.6 Pancuronium Although the possibility of minor interactive effects has not been fully studied, midazolam and pancuronium have been used together in patients without noting clinically significant changes in dosage, onset or duration in adults. 7.7 Other Drugs Used in the Surgical Setting No significant adverse interactions with commonly used premedications or drugs used during anesthesia and surgery (including atropine, scopolamine, glycopyrrolate, diazepam, hydroxyzine, d-tubocurarine, succinylcholine and other nondepolarizing muscle relaxants) or topical local anesthetics (including lidocaine, dyclonine HCl and Cetacaine) have been observed in adults or pediatric patients. 7.8 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Midazolam has not been shown to interfere with results obtained in clinical laboratory tests.

=== NOREPINEPHRINE BITARTRATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: PURPOSE: Acetylcholine Chloride – Neurological Support, Adrenalinum - Anxiety, GABA (Gamma-Aminobutyric Acid) – Appetite Control, Histaminum Hydrochloricum - Hives, Hydrastis Canadensis - Lethargy, Norepinephrine (Bitartrate) – Poor Memory, Taraxacum Officinale – Travel Sickness, Tyramine – Mood Swings PURPOSE: Acetylcholine Chloride – Memory Problems, Adenosinum Cyclophosphoricum – Emotional Problems, Adrenalinum – Sleep Problems, Cerebrum Suis – Sleep Problems, Diencephalon (Suis) – Memory Problems, Dopamine Hydrochloride – Emotional Problems, GABA (Gamma-Aminobutyric Acid) – Sleep Problems, Norepinephrine (Bitartrate) – Memory Problems, Pineal Gland – Emotional Problems, Serotonin (Hydrochloride) – Sleep Problems, Taurine – Memory Problems, Thalamus Opticus (Suis) – Emotional Problems, Tyramine – Sleep Problems. PURPOSE: May temporarily relieve symptoms associated with sensitivities to phenolic compounds such as rash, fatigue, and lack of concentration.** **Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. Not FDA evaluated.
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Norepinephrine bitartrate injection is indicated to raise blood pressure in adult patients with severe, acute hypotension. Norepinephrine bitartrate injection is a catecholamine indicated for restoration of blood pressure in adult patients with acute hypotensive states. ( 1 ) USES: • For the temporary relief from symptoms including: • neurological support • anxiety • appetite control • hives • lethargy • poor memory • mood swings • travel sickness These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. They have not been reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration. INDICATIONS AND USAGE For blood pressure control in certain acute hypotensive states (e.g., pheochromocytomectomy, sympathectomy, poliomyelitis, spinal anesthesia, myocardial infarction, septicemia, blood transfusion, and drug reactions). As an adjunct in the treatment of cardiac arrest and profound hypotension. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE LEVOPHED is indicated to raise blood pressure in adult patients with severe, acute hypotension. LEVOPHED is a catecholamine indicated for restoration of blood pressure in adult patients with acute hypotensive states. USES: • For the temporary relief of symptoms related to: • emotional problems • sleep problems • memory problems These statements are based upon homeopathic principles. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Norepinephrine Bitartrate Injection, USP is indicated to raise blood pressure in adult patients with severe, acute hypotension. Norepinephrine bitartrate injection is a catecholamine, indicated for restoration of blood pressure in adult patients with acute hypotensive states. INDICATIONS: May temporarily relieve symptoms associated with sensitivities to phenolic compounds such as rash, fatigue, and lack of concentration.** **Claims based on traditional homeopathic practice, not accepted medical evidence. Not FDA evaluated.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Initial dose of 0.25 mL to 0.375 mL (from 8 mcg to 12 mcg of base) per minute, adjust the rate of flow to establish and maintain a low to normal blood pressure (usually 80 mm Hg to 100 mm Hg systolic) sufficient to maintain the circulation of vital organs. ( 2.2 ) The average maintenance dose ranges from 0.0625 mL to 0.125 mL per minute (from 2 mcg to 4 mcg of base). ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Correct Hypovolemia Address hypovolemia before initiation of norepinephrine bitartrate injection therapy. If the patient does not respond to therapy, suspect occult hypovolemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . Administration Dilute norepinephrine bitartrate injection prior to use [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . Infuse norepinephrine bitartrate injection into a large vein. Avoid infusions into the veins of the leg in the elderly or in patients with occlusive vascular disease of the legs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Avoid using a catheter-tie-in technique . Discontinuation When discontinuing the infusion, reduce the flow rate gradually. Avoid abrupt withdrawal. 2.2 Dosage After an initial dosage of 8 to 12 mcg per minute via intravenous infusion, assess patient response and adjust dosage to maintain desired hemodynamic effect. Monitor blood pressure every two minutes until the desired hemodynamic effect is achieved, and then monitor blood pressure every five minutes for the duration of the infusion. Typical maintenance intravenous dosage is 2 to 4 mcg per minute. 2.3 Preparation of Diluted Solution Visually inspect norepinephrine bitartrate injection for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration (the solution is colorless). Do not use the solution if its color is pinkish or darker than slightly yellow or if it contains a precipitate. Add the content of one norepinephrine bitartrate injection vial (4 mg in 4 mL) to 1,000 mL of 5% Dextrose Injection, USP or Sodium Chloride Injection solutions that contain 5% dextrose to produce a 4 mcg per mL dilution. Dextrose reduces loss of potency due to oxidation. Administration in saline solution alone is not recommended. Use higher concentration solutions in patients requiring fluid restriction. Prior to use, store the diluted norepinephrine bitartrate injection solution for up to 24 hours at room temperature [20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F)] and protect from light. 2.4 Drug Incompatibilities Avoid contact with iron salts, alkalis, or oxidizing agents. Whole blood or plasma, if indicated to increase blood volume, should be administered separately. DIRECTIONS: 1-10 drops under the tongue, 3 times a day or as directed by a health professional. Consult a physician for use in children under 12 years of age. If the patient does not respond to therapy, suspect occult hypovolemia [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Administration Dilute Norepinephrine Bitartrate Injection prior to use [ see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. Avoid infusions into the veins of the leg in the elderly or in patients with occlusive vascular disease of the legs [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Avoid using a catheter-tie-in technique. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Norepinephrine bitartrate injection is a concentrated, potent drug which must be diluted in dextrose containing solutions prior to infusion. An infusion of norepinephrine bitartrate injection should be given into a large vein ( see PRECAUTIONS ). Restoration of Blood Pressure in Acute Hypotensive States Blood volume depletion should always be corrected as fully as possible before any vasopressor is administered. When, as an emergency measure, intraaortic pressures must be maintained to prevent cerebral or coronary artery ischemia, norepinephrine bitartrate injection can be administered before and concurrently with blood volume replacement. Diluent: Norepinephrine bitartrate injection should be diluted in 5 percent dextrose injection or 5 percent dextrose and sodium chloride injections. These dextrose containing fluids are protection against significant loss of potency due to oxidation. Whole blood or plasma, if indicated to increase blood volume, should be administered separately (for example, by use of a Y-tube and individual containers if given simultaneously). Average Dosage: Add the content of the vial (4 mg/4 mL) of norepinephrine bitartrate injection to 1,000 mL of a 5 percent dextrose containing solution. Each mL of this dilution contains 4 mcg of the base of norepinephrine bitartrate. Give this solution by intravenous infusion. Insert a plastic intravenous catheter through a suitable bore needle well advanced centrally into the vein and securely fixed with adhesive tape, avoiding, if possible, a catheter tie-in technique as this promotes stasis. An IV drip chamber or other suitable metering device is essential to permit an accurate estimation of the rate of flow in drops per minute. After observing the response to an initial dose of 2 mL to 3 mL (from 8 mcg to 12 mcg of base) per minute, adjust the rate of flow to establish and maintain a low normal blood pressure (usually 80 mm Hg to 100 mm Hg systolic) sufficient to maintain the circulation to vital organs. In previously hypertensive patients, it is recommended that the blood pressure should be raised no higher than 40 mm Hg below the preexisting systolic pressure. The average maintenance dose ranges from 0.5 mL to 1 mL per minute (from 2 mcg to 4 mcg of base). High Dosage: Great individual variation occurs in the dose required to attain and maintain an adequate blood pressure. In all cases, dosage of norepinephrine bitartrate injection should be titrated according to the response of the patient. Occasionally much larger or even enormous daily doses (as high as 68 mg base or 17 vials) may be necessary if the patient remains hypotensive, but occult blood volume depletion should always be suspected and corrected when present. Central venous pressure monitoring is usually helpful in detecting and treating this situation. Fluid Intake: The degree of dilution depends on clinical fluid volume requirements. If large volumes of fluid (dextrose) are needed at a flow rate that would involve an excessive dose of the pressor agent per unit of time, a solution more dilute than 4 mcg per mL should be used. On the other hand, when large volumes of fluid are clinically undesirable, a concentration greater than 4 mcg per mL may be necessary. Duration of Therapy: The infusion should be continued until adequate blood pressure and tissue perfusion are maintained without therapy. Infusions of norepinephrine bitartrate injection should be reduced gradually, avoiding abrupt withdrawal. In some of the reported cases of vascular collapse due to acute myocardial infarction, treatment was required for up to six days. Adjunctive Treatment in Cardiac Arrest Infusions of norepinephrine bitartrate injection are usually administered intravenously during cardiac resuscitation to restore and maintain an adequate blood pressure after an effective heartbeat and ventilation have been established by other means. [Norepinephrine’s powerful beta-adrenergic stimulating action is also thought to increase the strength and effectiveness of systolic contractions once they occur.] Average Dosage: To maintain systemic blood pressure during the management of cardiac arrest, norepinephrine bitartrate injection is used in the same manner as described under Restoration of Blood Pressure in Acute Hypotensive States. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to use, whenever solution and container permit. Avoid contact with iron salts, alkalis, or oxidizing agents. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Initial dose of 0.25 mL to 0.375 mL (from 8 mcg to 12 mcg of base) per minute, adjust the rate of flow to establish and maintain a low to normal blood pressure (usually 80 mm Hg to 100 mm Hg systolic) sufficient to maintain the circulation of vital organs. ( 2.2 ) • The average maintenance dose ranges from 0.0625 mL to 0.125 mL per minute (from 2 mcg to 4 mcg of base). ( 2.2 ) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Correct Hypovolemia Address hypovolemia before initiation of LEVOPHED therapy. Administration Dilute LEVOPHED prior to use [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ] . Infuse LEVOPHED into a large vein. 2.3 Preparation of Diluted Solution Visually inspect LEVOPHED for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration (the solution is colorless) . Add the content of one LEVOPHED vial (4 mg in 4 mL) to 1,000 mL of 5% Dextrose Injection, USP or Sodium Chloride Injection solutions that contain 5% dextrose to produce a 4 mcg per mL dilution. Prior to use, store the diluted LEVOPHED solution for up to 24 hours at room temperature [20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F)] and protect from light. (2.2) The average maintenance dose ranges from 0.0625 mL to 0.125 mL per minute (from 2 mcg to 4 mcg of base). (2.2) 2.1 Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Correct Hypovolemia Address hypovolemia before initiation of norepinephrine bitartrate injection therapy. If the patient does not respond to therapy, suspect occult hypovolemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Avoid infusions into the veins of the leg in the elderly or in patients with occlusive vascular disease of the legs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1 )] . DIRECTIONS: 3-10 drops under the tongue, 3 times a day or as directed by a health professional. 2.3 Preparation of Diluted Solution Visually inspect Norepinephrine Bitartrate Injection for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration (the solution is colorless) . If the patient does not respond to therapy, suspect occult hypovolemia [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Administration Dilute norepinephrine bitartrate injection prior to use [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.3 )] . Avoid infusions into the veins of the leg in the elderly or in patients with occlusive vascular disease of the legs [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . DIRECTIONS: Adults and children 5 to 10 drops orally, 1 time daily or as otherwise directed by a health care professional. If symptoms persist for more than 7 days, consult your health care professional.
Warnings: WARNINGS: If pregnant or breast-feeding, ask a health professional before use. Keep out of reach of children. In case of overdose, contact a physician or Poison Control Center right away. Tamper Evident: Sealed for your protection. Do not use if seal is broken or missing. WARNINGS Norepinephrine should be used with extreme caution in patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) or antidepressants of the triptyline or imipramine types, because severe, prolonged hypertension may result. Norepinephrine bitartrate injection contains sodium metabisulfite, a sulfite that may cause allergic-type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people. The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown. Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people. In case of overdose, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Do not use if tamper evident seal is broken or missing. Store in a cool, dry place.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None. None. ( 4 ) CONTRAINDICATIONS Norepinephrine should not be given to patients who are hypotensive from blood volume deficits except as an emergency measure to maintain coronary and cerebral artery perfusion until blood volume replacement therapy can be completed. If norepinephrine bitartrate injection is continuously administered to maintain blood pressure in the absence of blood volume replacement, the following may occur: severe peripheral and visceral vasoconstriction, decreased renal perfusion and urine output, poor systemic blood flow despite “normal” blood pressure, tissue hypoxia, and lactate acidosis. Norepinephrine should also not be given to patients with mesenteric or peripheral vascular thrombosis (because of the risk of increasing ischemia and extending the area of infarction) unless, in the opinion of the attending physician, the administration of norepinephrine bitartrate injection is necessary as a life-saving procedure. Cyclopropane and halothane anesthetics increase cardiac autonomic irritability and therefore seem to sensitize the myocardium to the action of intravenously administered epinephrine or norepinephrine. Hence, the use of norepinephrine during cyclopropane and halothane anesthesia is generally considered contraindicated because of the risk of producing ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation. The same type of cardiac arrhythmias may result from the use of norepinephrine bitartrate injection in patients with profound hypoxia or hypercarbia. (4)
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) or antidepressants of the triptyline or imipramine types may result in hypertension. ( 7.1 ) Cyclopropane and halothane anesthetics increase cardiac autonomic irritability. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 MAO-Inhibiting Drugs Co-administration of norepinephrine bitartrate with monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors or other drugs with MAO-inhibiting properties (e.g., linezolid) can cause severe, prolonged hypertension. If administration of norepinephrine bitartrate cannot be avoided in patients who recently have received any of these drugs and in whom, after discontinuation, MAO activity has not yet sufficiently recovered, monitor for hypertension. 7.2 Tricyclic Antidepressants Co-administration of norepinephrine bitartrate with tricyclic antidepressants (including amitriptyline, nortriptyline, protriptyline, clomipramine, desipramine, imipramine) can cause severe, prolonged hypertension. If administration of norepinephrine bitartrate cannot be avoided in these patients, monitor for hypertension. 7.3 Antidiabetics Norepinephrine bitartrate can decrease insulin sensitivity and raise blood glucose. Monitor glucose and consider dosage adjustment of antidiabetic drugs. 7.4 Halogenated Anesthetics Concomitant use of norepinephrine bitartrate with halogenated anesthetics (e.g., cyclopropane, desflurane, enflurane, isoflurane, and sevoflurane) may lead to ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation. Monitor cardiac rhythm in patients receiving concomitant halogenated anesthetics. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 MAO-Inhibiting Drugs Co-administration of Norepinephrine Bitartrate Injection with monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors or other drugs with MAO-inhibiting properties (e.g., linezolid) can cause severe, prolonged hypertension. If administration of Norepinephrine Bitartrate Injection cannot be avoided in patients who recently have received any of these drugs and in whom, after discontinuation, MAO activity has not yet sufficiently recovered, monitor for hypertension. 7.2 Tricyclic Antidepressants Co-administration of Norepinephrine Bitartrate Injection with tricyclic antidepressants (including amitriptyline, nortriptyline, protriptyline, clomipramine, desipramine, imipramine) can cause severe, prolonged hypertension. If administration of Norepinephrine Bitartrate Injection cannot be avoided in these patients, monitor for hypertension. 7.3 Antidiabetics Norepinephrine Bitartrate Injection can decrease insulin sensitivity and raise blood glucose. 7.4 Halogenated Anesthetics Concomitant use of Norepinephrine Bitartrate Injection with halogenated anesthetics (e.g., cyclopropane, desflurane, enflurane, isoflurane, and sevoflurane) may lead to ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation. Drug Interactions: Cyclopropane and halothane anesthetics increase cardiac autonomic irritability and therefore seem to sensitize the myocardium to the action of intravenously administered epinephrine or norepinephrine. Hence, the use of norepinephrine during cyclopropane and halothane anesthesia is generally considered contraindicated because of the risk of producing ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation. The same type of cardiac arrhythmias may result from the use of norepinephrine in patients with profound hypoxia or hypercarbia. Norepinephrine should be used with extreme caution in patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) or antidepressants of the triptyline or imipramine types, because severe, prolonged hypertension may result. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) or antidepressants of the triptyline or imipramine types may result in hypertension. ( 7.1 ) • Cyclopropane and halothane anesthetics increase cardiac autonomic irritability. ( 7.4 ) 7.1 MAO-Inhibiting Drugs Co-administration of LEVOPHED with monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors or other drugs with MAO-inhibiting properties (e.g., linezolid) can cause severe, prolonged hypertension. If administration of LEVOPHED cannot be avoided in patients who recently have received any of these drugs and in whom, after discontinuation, MAO activity has not yet sufficiently recovered, monitor for hypertension. 7.2 Tricyclic Antidepressants Co-administration of LEVOPHED with tricyclic antidepressants (including amitriptyline, nortriptyline, protriptyline, clomipramine, desipramine, imipramine) can cause severe, prolonged hypertension. If administration of LEVOPHED cannot be avoided in these patients, monitor for hypertension. 7.3 Antidiabetics LEVOPHED can decrease insulin sensitivity and raise blood glucose. 7.4 Halogenated Anesthetics Concomitant use of LEVOPHED with halogenated anesthetics (e.g., cyclopropane, desflurane, enflurane, isoflurane, and sevoflurane) may lead to ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation. (7.1) Cyclopropane and halothane anesthetics increase cardiac autonomic irritability. (7.4) 7.1 MAO-Inhibiting Drugs Co-administration of norepinephrine bitartrate with monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors or other drugs with MAO-inhibiting properties (e.g., linezolid) can cause severe, prolonged hypertension.

=== PHYTONADIONE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phytonadione injectable emulsion, USP is indicated in the following coagulation disorders which are due to faulty formation of factors II, VII, IX and X when caused by Vitamin K deficiency or interference with Vitamin K activity. Phytonadione injectable emulsion is indicated in­­ anticoagulant-induced prothrombin deficiency caused by coumarin or indanedione derivatives; ­­ prophylaxis and therapy of hemorrhagic disease of the newborn; ­­ hypoprothrombinemia due to antibacterial therapy; hypoprothrombinemia secondary to factors limiting absorption or synthesis of Vitamin K, e.g., obstructive jaundice, biliary fistula, sprue, ulcerative colitis, celiac disease, intestinal resection, cystic fibrosis of the pancreas, and regional enteritis; other drug-induced hypoprothrombinemia where it is definitely shown that the result is due to interference with phytonadione injectable emulsion metabolism, e.g., salicylates. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phytonadione injectable emulsion is indicated in the following coagulation disorders which are due to faulty formation of factors II, VII, IX and X when caused by vitamin K deficiency or interference with vitamin K activity. Phytonadione injectable emulsion is indicated in: • anticoagulant-induced prothrombin deficiency caused by coumarin or indanedione derivatives; • prophylaxis and therapy of hemorrhagic disease of the newborn; • hypoprothrombinemia due to antibacterial therapy; • hypoprothrombinemia secondary to factors limiting absorption or synthesis of vitamin K, e.g., obstructive jaundice, biliary fistula, sprue, ulcerative colitis, celiac disease, intestinal resection, cystic fibrosis of the pancreas, and regional enteritis; • other drug-induced hypoprothrombinemia where it is definitely shown that the result is due to interference with vitamin K metabolism, e.g., salicylates. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phytonadione tablets are indicated for the treatment of adults with the following coagulation disorders which are due to faulty formation of factors II, VII, IX and X when caused by vitamin K deficiency or interference with vitamin K activity. Anticoagulant-induced hypoprothrombinemia caused by coumarin or indanedione derivatives. Hypoprothrombinemia secondary to antibacterial therapy. Hypoprothrombinemia secondary to factors limiting absorpsion or synthesis of vitamin K, e.g., obstructive jaundice, biliary fistula, sprue, ulcerative colitis, celiac disease, intestinal resection, cystic fibrosis of the pancrease, and regional enteritis. Other drug-induced hypoprothrombinemia where it is definitely shown that the result is due to interference with vitamin K metabolism, e.g., salicylates. Phytonadione is a vitamin K replacement indicated for the treatment of adults with the following coagulation disorders which are due to faulty formation of factors II, VII, IX and X when caused by vitamin K deficiency or interference with vitamin K activity: Anticoagulant-induced prothrombin deficiency caused by coumarin or indanedione derivatives. (1) Hypoprothrombinemia secondary to antibacterial therapy. (1) Hypoprothrombinemia secondary to factors limiting absorption or synthesis of vitamin K, e.g., obstructive jaundice, biliary fistula, sprue, ulcerative colitis, celiac disease, intestinal resection, cystic fibrosis of the pancreas, and regional enteritis. (1) Other drug-induced hypoprothrombinemia where it is definitively shown that the result is due to interference with vitamin K metabolism, e.g., salicylates. (1) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE 1.1 Treatment of Hypoprothrombinemia Due to Vitamin K Deficiency or Interference Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion, USP is indicated for the treatment of the following coagulation disorders which are due to faulty formation of factors II, VII, IX and X when caused by vitamin K deficiency or interference with vitamin K activity; anticoagulant-induced hypoprothrombinemia caused by coumarin or indanedione derivatives; hypoprothrombinemia due to antibacterial therapy; hypoprothrombinemia secondary to factors limiting absorption or synthesis of vitamin K, e.g., obstructive jaundice, biliary fistula, sprue, ulcerative colitis, celiac disease, intestinal resection, cystic fibrosis of the pancreas, and regional enteritis; other drug-induced hypoprothrombinemia where it is definitely shown that the result is due to interference with vitamin K metabolism, e.g., salicylates. 1.2 Prophylaxis and Treatment of Vitamin K-Deficiency Bleeding in Neonates Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion, USP is indicated for prophylaxis and treatment of vitamin K-deficiency bleeding in neonates. Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion, USP is a vitamin K replacement indicated for the treatment of the following coagulation disorders which are due to faulty formation of factors II, VII, IX and X when cause by vitamin K deficiency or interference with vitamin K activity. Anticoagulant-induced hypoprothrombinemia deficiency caused by coumarin or indanedione derivatives; (1.1) Hypoprothrombinemia due to antibacterial therapy; (1.1) Hypoprothrombinemia secondary to factors limiting absorption or synthesis of vitamin K, e.g., obstructive jaundice, biliary fistula, sprue, ulcerative colitis, celiac disease, intestinal resection, cystic fibrosis of the pancreas, and regional enteritis; (1.1) INDICATIONS AND USAGE Diatrol™ is indicated to provide significant amounts of essential vitamins and mineral. This comprehensive nutrient profile helps prevent nutritional deficiencies of these vitamins and minerals, ensuring that the specific dietary needs are met to support overall health, energy, and vitality. The product is specially formulated to target common vitamin and mineral gaps, thus promoting optimal health, immune function, bone strength, and metabolic balance. It is intended to be used under the guidance of a licensed healthcare practitioner to ensure that any potential for nutritional deficiency is addressed in a manner that supports the individual's overall health and wellbeing. Contraindications: This product is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its ingredients. Phytonadione injectable emulsion is indicated in: anticoagulant-induced prothrombin deficiency caused by coumarin or indanedione derivatives; prophylaxis and therapy of hemorrhagic disease of the newborn; hypoprothrombinemia due to antibacterial therapy; hypoprothrombinemia secondary to factors limiting absorption or synthesis of vitamin K, e.g., obstructive jaundice, biliary fistula, sprue, ulcerative colitis, celiac disease, intestinal resection, cystic fibrosis of the pancreas, and regional enteritis; other drug-induced hypoprothrombinemia where it is definitely shown that the result is due to interference with vitamin K metabolism, e.g., salicylates. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phytonadione injectable emulsion is a vitamin K replacement indicated for the treatment of the following coagulation disorders which are due to faulty formation of factors II, VII, IX and X when caused by vitamin K deficiency or interference with vitamin K activity. Anticoagulant-induced hypoprothrombinemia deficiency caused by coumarin or indanedione derivatives; ( 1.1 ) Hypoprothrombinemia due to antibacterial therapy; ( 1.1 ) Hypoprothrombinemia secondary to factors limiting absorption or synthesis of vitamin K, e.g., obstructive jaundice, biliary fistula, sprue, ulcerative colitis, celiac disease, intestinal resection, cystic fibrosis of the pancreas, and regional enteritis; ( 1.1 ) Other drug-induced hypoprothrombinemia where is it definitely shown that the result is due to interference with vitamin K metabolism, e.g., salicylates. ( 1.1 ) Phytonadione injectable emulsion is indicated for prophylaxis and treatment of vitamin K-deficiency bleeding in neonates. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Treatment of Hypoprothrombinemia Due to Vitamin K Deficiency or Interference Phytonadione injectable emulsion is indicated for the treatment of the following coagulation disorders which are due to faulty formation of factors II, VII, IX and X when caused by vitamin K deficiency or interference with vitamin K activity: anticoagulant-induced hypoprothrombinemia caused by coumarin or indanedione derivatives; hypoprothrombinemia due to antibacterial therapy; hypoprothrombinemia secondary to factors limiting absorption or synthesis of vitamin K, e.g., obstructive jaundice, biliary fistula, sprue, ulcerative colitis, celiac disease, intestinal resection, cystic fibrosis of the pancreas, and regional enteritis; other drug-induced hypoprothrombinemia where it is definitely shown that the result is due to interference with vitamin K metabolism, e.g., salicylates. 1.2 Prophylaxis and Treatment of Vitamin K-Deficiency Bleeding in Neonates Phytonadione injectable emulsion is indicated for prophylaxis and treatment of vitamin K-deficiency bleeding in neonates. Phytonadione injectable emulsion is indicated in­­ anticoagulant-induced prothrombin deficiency caused by coumarin or indanedione derivatives; prophylaxis and therapy of hemorrhagic disease of the newborn; hypoprothrombinemia due to antibacterial therapy; hypoprothrombinemia secondary to factors limiting absorption or synthesis of Vitamin K, e.g., obstructive jaundice, biliary fistula, sprue, ulcerative colitis, celiac disease, intestinal resection, cystic fibrosis of the pancreas, and regional enteritis; other drug-induced hypoprothrombinemia where it is definitely shown that the result is due to interference with phytonadione injectable emulsion metabolism, e.g., salicylates. Anticoagulant-induced hypoprothrombinemia deficiency caused by coumarin or indanedione derivatives. ( 1.1 ) Hypoprothrombinemia due to antibacterial therapy. ( 1.1 ) Hypoprothrombinemia secondary to factors limiting absorption or synthesis of vitamin K, e.g., obstructive jaundice, biliary fistula, sprue, ulcerative colitis, celiac disease, intestinal resection, cystic fibrosis of the pancreas and regional enteritis. ( 1.1 ) Other drug-induced hypoprothrombinemia where it is definitely shown that the result is due to interference with vitamin K metabolism, e.g., salicylates. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Treatment of Hypoprothrombinemia Due to Vitamin K Deficiency or Interference Phytonadione injectable emulsion is indicated for the treatment of the following coagulation disorders which are due to faulty formation of factors II, VII, IX and X when caused by vitamin K deficiency or interference with vitamin K activity: Anticoagulant-induced hypoprothrombinemia caused by coumarin or indanedione derivatives. Hypoprothrombinemia due to antibacterial therapy. Hypoprothrombinemia secondary to factors limiting absorption or synthesis of vitamin K, e.g., obstructive jaundice, biliary fistula, sprue, ulcerative colitis, celiac disease, intestinal resection, cystic fibrosis of the pancreas and regional enteritis. ( 1.2 ) 1.1 Treatment of Hypoprothrombinemia Due to Vitamin K Deficiency or Interference Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion is indicated for the treatment of the following coagulation disorders which are due to faulty formation of factors II, VII, IX and X when caused by vitamin K-deficiency or interference with vitamin K activity: anticoagulant-induced hypoprothrombinemia caused by coumarin or indanedione derivatives; hypoprothrombinemia due to antibacterial therapy; hypoprothrombinemia secondary to factors limiting absorption or synthesis of vitamin K, e.g., obstructive jaundice, biliary fistula, sprue, ulcerative colitis, celiac disease, intestinal resection, cystic fibrosis of the pancreas, and regional enteritis; other drug-induced hypoprothrombinemia where it is definitely shown that the result is due to interference with vitamin K metabolism, e.g., salicylates. 1.2 Prophylaxis and Treatment of Vitamin K-Deficiency Bleeding in Neonates Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion is indicated for prophylaxis and treatment of vitamin K deficiency bleeding in neonates.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Whenever possible, phytonadione injectable emulsion, should be given by the subcutaneous route. (See Box Warning .) When intravenous administration is considered unavoidable, the drug should be injected very slowly, not exceeding 1 mg per minute. Protect from light at all times. Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. Directions for Dilution Phytonadione injectable emulsion may be diluted with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, 5% Dextrose Injection, or 5% Dextrose and Sodium Chloride Injection. Benzyl alcohol as a preservative has been associated with toxicity in newborns. Therefore, all of the above diluents should be preservative-free (see WARNINGS ). Other diluents should not be used . When dilutions are indicated, administration should be startedimmediately after mixture with the diluent, and unused portions of the dilution should be discarded, as well as unused contents of the ampule. Prophylaxis of Hemorrhagic Diseas e of the Newborn The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that phytonadione be given to the newborn. A single intramuscular dose of phytonadione injectable emulsion 0.5 to 1 mg within one hour of birth is recommended. Treatment of Hemorrhagic Diseas e of the Newborn Empiric administration of phytonadione should not replace proper laboratory evaluation of the coagulation mechanism. A prompt response (shortening of the prothrombin time in 2 to 4 hours) following administration of phytonadione is usually diagnostic of hemorrhagic disease of the newborn, and failure to respond indicates another diagnosis or coagulation disorder. Phytonadione injectable emulsion 1 mg should be given either subcutaneously or intramuscularly. Higher doses may be necessary if the mother has been receiving oral anticoagulants. Whole blood or component therapy may be indicated if bleeding is excessive. This therapy, however, does not correct the underlying disorder and phytonadione injectable emulsion should be given concurrently. Anticoagulant-Induced Prothrombin Deficiency in Adults To correct excessively prolonged prothrombin time caused by oral anticoagulant therapy—2.5 to 10 mg or up to 25 mg initially is recommended. In rare instances 50 mg may be required. Frequency and amount of subsequent doses should be determined by prothrombin time response or clinical condition (see WARNINGS). If in 6 to 8 hours after parenteral administration the prothrombin time has not been shortened satisfactorily, the dose should be repeated. Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion, USP Summary of Dosage Guidelines (See circular text for details) Newborns Dosage Hemorrhagic Disease of the Newborn Prophylaxis 0.5 to 1 mg IM within 1 hour of birth Treatment 1 mg SC or It (Higher doses may be necessary if the mother has been receiving oral anticoagulants) Adults Initial Dosage Anticoagulant-Induced Prothrombin Deficiency(caused by coumarin or indanedione derivatives) 2.5 mg to 10 mg or up to 25 mg (rarely 50 mg) Hypoprothrombinemia Due to other causes(Antibiotics; Salicylates or other drugs; Factors limiting absorption or synthesis) 2.5 mg to 25 mg ormore (rarely up to 50 mg) In the event of shock or excessive blood loss, the use of whole blood or component therapy is indicated. Hypoprothrombinemia Due to Other Causes in Adults A dosage of 2.5 to 25 mg or more (rarely up to 50 mg) is recommended, the amount and route of administration depending upon the severity of the condition and response obtained. If possible, discontinuation or reduction of the dosage of drugs interfering with coagulation mechanisms (such as salicylates; antibiotics) is suggested as an alternative to administering concurrent phytonadione injectable emulsion. The severity of the coagulation disorder should determine whether the immediate administration of phytonadione injectable emulsion is required in addition to discontinuation or reduction of interfering drugs. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Whenever possible, phytonadione injectable emulsion, USP should be given by the subcutaneous route (See Box Warning ). When intravenous administration is considered unavoidable, the drug should be injected very slowly, not exceeding 1 mg per minute. Directions for Dilution Phytonadione injectable emulsion, USP may be diluted with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, 5% Dextrose Injection, or 5% Dextrose and Sodium Chloride Injection. When dilutions are indicated, administration should be started immediately after mixture with the diluent, and unused portions of the dilution should be discarded, as well as unused contents of the vial. Prophylaxis of Hemorrhagic Disease of the Newborn The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that phytonadione be given to the newborn. A single intramuscular dose of phytonadione injectable emulsion, USP 0.5 to 1 mg within one hour of birth is recommended. Treatment of Hemorrhagic Disease of the Newborn Empiric administration of phytonadione should not replace proper laboratory evaluation of the coagulation mechanism. Phytonadione injectable emulsion, USP 1 mg should be given either subcutaneously or intramuscularly. This therapy, however, does not correct the underlying disorder and phytonadione injectable emulsion, USP should be given concurrently. Frequency and amount of subsequent doses should be determined by prothrombin time response or clinical condition (See WARNINGS ). Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion, USP Summary of Dosage Guidelines (See circular text for details) Newborns Dosage Hemorrhagic Disease of Newborn Prophylaxis 0.5 to 1 mg IM within 1 hour of birth Treatment 1 mg SC or IM (Higher doses may be necessary if the mother has been receiving oral anticoagulants) Adults Initial Dosage Anticoagulant-Induced Prothrombin Deficiency (caused by coumarin or indanedione derivatives) 2.5 mg to 10 mg or up to 25 mg (rarely 50 mg) Hypoprothrombinemia Due to other causes (Antibiotics; Salicylates or other drugs; Factors limiting absorption or synthesis) 2.5 mg to 25 mg or more (rarely up to 50 mg) In the event of shock or excessive blood loss, the use of whole blood or component therapy is indicated. If possible, discontinuation or reduction of the dosage of drugs interfering with coagulation mechanisms (such as salicylates; antibiotics) is suggested as an alternative to administering concurrent phytonadione injectable emulsion, USP. The severity of the coagulation disorder should determine whether the immediate administration of phytonadione injectable emulsion, USP is required in addition to discontinuation or reduction of interfering drugs. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Anticoagulant-Induced Prothrombin Deficiency: 2.5 mg to 10 mg or up to 25 mg. (2.2) Hypoprothrombinemia Due to Other Causes: 2.5 mg to 25 mg or more. (2.2) Must be given with bile salts when endogenous supply of bile to gastrointestinal track is deficient. (2.1) 2.1 Dosing Considerations Avoid the oral route when the clinical disorder would prevent proper absorption. Bile salts must be given with the tablets when the endogenous supply of bile to the gastrointestinal tract is deficient. The coagulant effects of phytonadione tablets are not immediate; improvement of international normalized ratio (INR) may take 1 to 8 hours. Interim use of whole blood or component therapy may also be necessary if bleeding is severe. Phytonadione tablets will not counteract the anticoagulant action of heparin. When phytonadione tablets are used to correct excessive anticoagulant-induced hypoprothrombinemia, anticoagulant therapy still being indicated, the patient is again faced with the clotting hazards existing prior to starting the anticoagulant therapy. Phytonadione tablets are not a clotting agent, but overzealous therapy with vitamin K1 may restore conditions which originally permitted thromboembolic phenomena. Dosage should be kept as low as possible, and prothrombin time should be checked regularly as clinical conditions indicate. 2.2 Recommended Dosage Anticoagulant-Induced Prothrombin Deficiency in Adults The recommended dose to correct excessively prolonged prothrombin times caused by oral anticoagulant therapy is, 2.5 mg to 10 mg or up to 25 mg initially. In some instances 50 mg may be required. Frequency and amount of subsequent doses should be determined by prothrombin time response or clinical condition. If, in 12 to 48 hours after oral administration, the prothrombin time has not been shortened satisfactorily, repeat the dose. Repeated large doses of phytonadione tablets are not warranted in liver disease if the response to initial use of the vitamin is unsatisfactory. Failure to respond to phytonadione may indicate a congenital coagulation defect or that the condition being treated is unresponsive to vitamin K. Hypoprothrombinemia Due to Other Causes in Adults If possible, discontinuation or reduction of the dosage of drugs interfering with coagulation mechanisms (such as salicylates, antibiotics) is suggested as an alternative to administering concurrent phytonadione tablets. The severity of the coagulation disorder should determine whether the immediate administration of phytonadione tablets are required in addition to discontinuation or reduction of interfering drugs. The recommended dose is 2.5 mg to 25 mg or more (sometimes up to 50 mg). Evaluate INR after 6 to 8 hours, and repeat dose if INR remains prolonged. Modify subsequent dosage (amount and frequency) based upon the INR or clinical condition. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2.1 Dosing Considerations Whenever possible, administer Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion, USP by the subcutaneous route [see Boxed Warning ] . When intravenous administration is unavoidable, inject the drug very slowly, not exceeding 1 mg per minute [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] . Monitor international normalized ratio (INR) regularly and as clinical conditions indicate. Use the lowest dose of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion, USP. The coagulant effects of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion, USP are not immediate; improvement of INR may take 1-8 hours. When Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion is used to correct excessive anticoagulant-induced hypoprothrombinemia, anticoagulant therapy still being indicated, the patient is again faced with the clotting hazards existing prior to starting the anticoagulant therapy. Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion is not a clotting agent, but overzealous therapy with Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion may restore conditions which originally permitted thromboembolic phenomena. Dosage should be kept as low as possible, and INR should be checked regularly as clinical conditions indicate. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Coagulation Disorders from Vitamin K Deficiency or Interference The recommended dosage of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion is based on whether the hypoprothrombinemia is anticoagulant-induced (e.g., due to coumarin or indanedione derivatives) or non-anticoagulant-induced (e.g., due to antibiotics; salicylates or other drugs; factors limiting absorption or synthesis) as follows: Anticoagulant-induced Hypoprothrombinemia : Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion 2.5 mg to 10 mg or more subcutaneously, intramuscularly, or intravenously. Up to 25 mg to 50 mg may be administered as a single dose. Repeated large doses of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion are not warranted in liver disease if the initial response is unsatisfactory. Failure to respond to Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion may indicate that the condition being treated is inherently unresponsive to Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion. Hyppoprothrombinemia Due to Other Causes (Non-Anticoagulation-Induced Hypoprothrombinemia : Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion 2.5 mg to 25 mg or more intravenously, intramuscularly, or subcutaneously. Up to 50 mg may be administered as a single dose. Evaluate INR after 6-8 hours, and repeat dose if INR remains prolonged. Modify subsequent dosage (amount and frequency) based on the INR or clinical condition. 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Prophylaxis and Treatment of Vitamin K Deficiency Bleeding in Neonates Prophylaxis of Vitamin K-Deficiency Bleeding in Neonates The recommended dosage of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion is 0.5 mg to 1 mg within one hour of birth for a single dose. Treatment of Vitamin K Deficiency Bleeding in Neonates The recommended dosage of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion is 1 mg given either subcutaneously or intramuscularly. Consider higher doses if the mother has been receiving oral anticoagulants. A failure to respond (shortening of the INR in 2 to 4 hours) may indicate another diagnosis or coagulation disorder. 2.4 Directions for Dilution Dilute Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, 5% Dextrose Injection, or 5% Dextrose and Sodium Chloride Injection. When diluted, start administration of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion immediately after dilution. Discard unused portions of diluted solution as well as unused contents of the vial. Protect Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion from light at all times. Administer Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion, USP by the subcutaneous route, whenever possible. (2.1) When intravenous administration is unavoidable, inject the drug very slowly, not exceeding 1 mg per minute. (2.1) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take one (1) caplet daily or as directed by a licensed healthcare practitioner. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer phytonadione injectable emulsion by the subcutaneous route, whenever possible. ( 2.1 ) When intravenous administration is unavoidable, inject the drug very slowly, not exceeding 1 mg per minute. ( 2.1 ) 2.1 Dosing Considerations Whenever possible, administer phytonadione injectable emulsion by the subcutaneous route [see Boxed Warning ] . When intravenous administration is unavoidable, inject the drug very slowly, not exceeding 1 mg per minute [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . Use the lowest effective dose of phytonadione injectable emulsion. The coagulant effects of phytonadione injectable emulsion are not immediate; improvement of INR may take 1-8 hours. Whenever possible, administer benzyl alcohol-free formulations in pediatric patients [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] . Phytonadione is not a clotting agent, but overzealous therapy with phytonadione injectable emulsion may restore conditions which originally permitted thromboembolic phenomena. 2.2 Recommended Dosage for Coagulation Disorders from Vitamin K Deficiency or Interference The recommended dosage of phytonadione injectable emulsion is based on whether the hypoprothrombinemia is anticoagulant-induced (e.g., due to coumarin or indanedione derivatives) or non-anticoagulant-induced (e.g., due to antibiotics; salicylates or other drugs; factors limiting absorption or synthesis) as follows: Anticoagulant-Induced Hypoprothrombinemia: Phytonadione injectable emulsion 2.5 mg to 10 mg or more subcutaneously, intramuscularly, or intravenously. Hypoprothrombinemia Due to Other Causes (Non-Anticoagulation-Induced Hypoprothrombinemia): Phytonadione injectable emulsion 2.5 mg to 25 mg or more intravenously, intramuscularly, or subcutaneously. Avoid use of other diluents that may contain benzyl alcohol, which can cause serious toxicity in newborns or low birth weight infants [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4 )] . Other diluents should not be used. In the event of shock or excessive blood loss, the use of whole blood or component therapy is indicated. Image1.jpg When intravenous administration is unavoidable, inject the drug very slowly, not exceeding 1 mg per minute [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . The coagulant effects of phytonadione injectable emulsion are not immediate; improvement of INR may take 1 hour to 8 hours. Dosage should be kept as low as possible and INR should be checked regularly as clinical conditions indicate. Up to 25 mg to 50 mg may be administered as a single-dose. Up to 50 mg may be administered as a single-dose. Evaluate INR after 6 hours to 8 hours and repeat dose if INR remains prolonged. 2.3 Recommended Dosage for Prophylaxis and Treatment of Vitamin K Deficiency Bleeding in Neonates Prophylaxis of Vitamin K-Deficiency Bleeding in Neonates The recommended dosage of phytonadione injectable emulsion is 0.5 mg to 1 mg within one hour of birth for a single-dose. Treatment of Vitamin K-Deficiency Bleeding in Neonates The recommended dosage of phytonadione injectable emulsion is 1 mg given either subcutaneously or intramuscularly. A failure to respond (shortening of the INR in 2 hours to 4 hours) may indicate another diagnosis or coagulation disorder. 2.4 Directions for Dilution CAUTION: The syringe may not be compatible with Luer-activated valve (LAV) connectors that have internal pin designs, such as LAVs with CLAVE design. Dilute phytonadione injectable emulsion with 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, 5% Dextrose Injection, or 5% Dextrose and Sodium Chloride Injection. Discard unused portions of diluted solution as well as unused contents of the syringe. The coagulant effects of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion are not immediate; improvement of INR may take 1 to 8 hours. Discard unused portions of diluted solution as well as unused contents of the pre-filled syringe.
Warnings: WARNINGS Benzyl alcohol as a preservative in Bacteriostatic Sodium Chloride Injection has been associated with toxicity in newborns. Data are unavailable on the toxicity of other preservatives in this age group. There is no evidence to suggest that the small amount of benzyl alcohol contained in phytonadione injectable emulsion, USP, when used as recommended, is associated with toxicity. An immediate coagulant effect should not be expected after administration of phytonadione. It takes a minimum of 1 to 2 hours for measurable improvement in the prothrombin time. Whole blood or component therapy may also be necessary if bleeding is severe. Phytonadione will not counteract the anticoagulant action of heparin. When Phytonadione is used to correct excessive anticoagulant-induced hypoprothrombinemia, anticoagulant therapy still being indicated, the patient is again faced with the clotting hazards existing prior to starting the anticoagulant therapy. Phytonadione is not a clotting agent, but overzealous therapy with phytonadione injectable emulsion may restore conditions which originally permitted thromboembolic phenomena. Dosage should be kept as low as possible, and prothrombin time should be checked regularly as clinical conditions indicate.Repeated large doses of Vitamin K are not warranted in liver disease if the response to initial use of the vitamin is unsatisfactory. Failure to respond to Vitamin K may indicate that the condition being treated is inherently unresponsive to Vitamin K. Benzyl alcohol has been reported to be associated with a fatal “Gasping Syndrome” in premature infants. WARNING: This product contains aluminum that may be toxic. Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired. Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature, and they required large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions, which contain aluminum. Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function, including premature neonates, who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg/kg/day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity. Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration. There is no evidence to suggest that the small amount of benzyl alcohol contained in phytonadione injectable emulsion, when used as recommended, is associated with toxicity. Dosage should be kept as low as possible, and prothrombin time should be checked regularly as clinical conditions indicate. Repeated large doses of vitamin K are not warranted in liver disease if the response to initial use of the vitamin is unsatisfactory. Benzyl alcohol has been reported to be associated with a fatal "Gasping Syndrome" in premature infants. WARNING In case of accidental overdose, seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately.
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication. CONTRAINDICATION Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Phytonadione tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of a hypersensitivity reaction to phytonadione or inactive ingredients [see Description ( 11) ] . Hypersensitivity to any component of this medication. (4) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to phytonadione or any other component of this medication [see WARNING AND PRECAUTIONS (5.1)]. Contraindications: This product is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its ingredients. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to phytonadione or any other component of this medication [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] . ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to phytonadione or any other component of this medication [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to phytonadione or any other component of this medication [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5.1 )].
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Temporary resistance to prothrombin-depressing anticoagulants may result, especially when larger doses of phytonadione are used. If relatively large doses have been employed, it may be necessary when reinstituting anticoagulant therapy to use somewhat larger doses of the prothrombin-depressing anticoagulant, or to use one which acts on a different principle, such as heparin sodium. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Anticoagulants Phytonadione may induce temporary resistance to prothrombin-depressing anticoagulants, especially when larger doses of phytonadione are used. Should this occur, higher doses of anticoagulant therapy may be needed when resuming anticoagulant therapy or a change in therapy to a different class of anticoagulant may be necessary (i.e., heparin sodium). Phytonadione does not affect the anticoagulant action of heparin. Anticoagulants: May induce temporary resistance to prothrombin-depressing anticoagulants. (7) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Anticoagulants Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion may induce temporary resistance to prothrombin-depressing anticoagulants, especially when larger doses of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion are used. Should this occur, higher doses of anticoagulant therapy may be needed when resuming anticoagulant therapy, or a change in therapy to a different class of anticoagulant may be necessary (i.e., heparin sodium). Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion does not affect the anticoagulant action of heparin. ( 7 ) 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Anticoagulants: May induce temporary resistance to prothrombin-depressing anticoagulants. ( 7 ) Anticoagulants Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion may induce temporary resistance to prothrombin-depressing anticoagulants, especially when larger doses of Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion are used.

=== POTASSIUM CITRATE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purpose Teeth whitening, anti-sensitivity, remineralization Teeth whitening, anti-sensitivity, remineralization
Indications: 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Potassium citrate extended-release tablets are a citrate salt of potassium indicated for the management of: Renal tubular acidosis (RTA) with calcium stones (1.1) Hypocitraturic calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis of any etiology (1.2) Uric acid lithiasis with or without calcium stones (1.3) 1.1 Renal Tubular Acidosis (RTA) with Calcium Stones Potassium citrate is indicated for the management of renal tubular acidosis [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. 1.2 Hypocitraturic Calcium Oxalate Nephrolithiasis of any Etiology Potassium citrate is indicated for the management of Hypocitraturic calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis [see Clinical Studies (14.2)] . 1.3 Uric Acid Lithiasis with or without Calcium Stones Potassium citrate is indicated for the management of Uric acid lithiasis with or without calcium stones [see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. Use Teeth stains from coffee, tobacco, genetic, tetracycline, food coloring, aging and other factors that may cause discoloration. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Potassium citrate extended-release tablet is a citrate salt of potassium indicated for the management of: Renal tubular acidosis (RTA) with calcium stones (1.1) Hypocitraturic calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis of any etiology (1.2) Uric acid lithiasis with or without calcium stones (1.3) 1.1 Renal Tubular Acidosis (RTA) with Calcium Stones Potassium citrate is indicated for the management of renal tubular acidosis [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1.2 Hypocitraturic Calcium Oxalate Nephrolithiasis of any Etiology Potassium citrate is indicated for the management of Hypocitraturic calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. 1.3 Uric Acid Lithiasis with or without Calcium Stones Potassium citrate is indicated for the management of Uric acid lithiasis with or without calcium stones [see Clinical Studies (14.3) ]. 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Potassium citrate is a citrate salt of potassium indicated for the management of: Renal tubular acidosis (RTA) with calcium stones ( 1.1 ) Hypocitraturic calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis of any etiology ( 1.2 ) Uric acid lithiasis with or without calcium stones ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Renal Tubular Acidosis (RTA) with Calcium Stones Potassium citrate is indicated for the management of renal tubular acidosis [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )]. 1.2 Hypocitraturic Calcium Oxalate Nephrolithiasis of any Etiology Potassium citrate is indicated for the management of Hypocitraturic calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. 1.3 Uric Acid Lithiasis with or without Calcium Stones Potassium citrate is indicated for the management of Uric acid lithiasis with or without calcium stones [see Clinical Studies ( 14.3 )]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Potassium citrate extended-release tablet is a citrate salt of potassium indicated for the management of: Renal tubular acidosis (RTA) with calcium stones (1.1) Hypocitraturic calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis of any etiology (1.2) Uric acid lithiasis with or without calcium stones (1.3) 1.1 Renal Tubular Acidosis (RTA) with Calcium Stones Potassium citrate is indicated for the management of renal tubular acidosis [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. 1.2 Hypocitraturic Calcium Oxalate Nephrolithiasis of any Etiology Potassium citrate is indicated for the management of Hypocitraturic calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Potassium citrate is a citrate salt of potassium indicated for the management of: Renal tubular acidosis (RTA) with calcium stones ( 1.1 ) Hypocitraturic calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis of any etiology ( 1.2 ) Uric acid lithiasis with or without calcium stones ( 1.3 ) 1.1 Renal tubular acidosis (RTA) with calcium stones Potassium citrate is indicated for the management of renal tubular acidosis [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. 1. Dry your teeth and rinse mouthpiece before use 2. Looking in the mirror to recor which stage you are with shadeyuide paper. 3. Twist whitening pen until the gel flows. apply the gel evenly on bath upper and lower..teeth. Each time use about 0.5-0.7ml 4. Put mouthpiece into your mouth and bite it, then press power bltton for 1.5 secondst with blue color, press again to turn red within 5 to start the treatment.(Tips: stad and blue within 5 seconds.)seconds; double press to turn re 5. The led light will turn off automatically after 16 minutes, rinse themouthpiece andmouth with water and compareour teeth with shade guide paperagain to see howmany stages you have improved 6. Don't eat or drink anything exept water in 30 minutes after treatment. INDICATIONS AND ADVANTAGES Tricitrates oral solution is an effective alkalinizing agent useful in those conditions where long-term maintenance of an alkaline urine is desirable, such as in patients with uric acid and cystine calculi of the urinary tract. In addition, it is a valuable adjuvant when administered with uricosuric agents in gout therapy, since urates tend to crystallize out of an acid urine. It is also effective in correcting the acidosis of certain renal tubular disorders. This product is highly concentrated, and when administered after meals and before bedtime, allows one to maintain an alkaline urine pH around the clock, usually without the necessity of a 2 A.M. dose. This product alkalinizes the urine without producing a systemic alkalosis in recommended dosage. It is highly palatable, pleasant tasting, and tolerable, even when administered for long periods. Potassium citrate and sodium citrate do not neutralize the gastric juice or disturb digestion. INDICATIONS AND ADVANTAGES Tricitrates SF Oral Solution is an effective alkalinizing agent useful in those conditions where long-term maintenance of an alkaline urine is desirable, such as in patients with uric acid and cystine calculi of the urinary tract.
Dosage: 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Objective: To restore normal urinary citrate (greater than 320 mg/day and as close to the normal mean of 640 mg/day as possible), and to increase urinary pH to a level of 6.0 to 7.0. Severe hypocitraturia (urinary citrate < 150 mg/day): therapy should be initiated at 60 mEq per day; a dose of 30 mEq two times per day or 20 mEq three times per day with meals or within 30 minutes after meals or bedtime snack (2.2) Mild to moderate hypocitraturia (urinary citrate >150 mg/day): therapy should be initiated at 30 mEq per day; a dose of 15 mEq two times per day or 10 mEq three times per day with meals or within 30 minutes after meals or bedtime snack (2.3) 2.1 Dosing Instructions Treatment with extended release potassium citrate should be added to a regimen that limits salt intake (avoidance of foods with high salt content and of added salt at the table) and encourages high fluid intake (urine volume should be at least two liters per day). The objective of treatment with potassium citrate extended-release tablets is to provide potassium citrate in sufficient dosage to restore normal urinary citrate (greater than 320 mg/day and as close to the normal mean of 640 mg/day as possible), and to increase urinary pH to a level of 6.0 or 7.0. Monitor serum electrolytes (sodium, potassium, chloride and carbon dioxide), serum creatinine and complete blood counts every four months and more frequently in patients with cardiac disease, renal disease or acidosis. Perform electrocardiograms periodically. Treatment should be discontinued if there is hyperkalemia, a significant rise in serum creatinine or a significant fall in blood hematocrit or hemoglobin. 2.2 Severe Hypocitraturia In patients with severe hypocitraturia (urinary citrate < 150 mg/day), therapy should be initiated at a dosage of 60 mEq/day (30 mEq two times/day or 20 mEq three times/day with meals or within 30 minutes after meals or bedtime snack). Twenty-four hour urinary citrate and/or urinary pH measurements should be used to determine the adequacy of the initial dosage and to evaluate the effectiveness of any dosage change. In addition, urinary citrate and/or pH should be measured every four months. Doses of potassium citrate extended-release tablets greater than 100 mEq/day have not been studied and should be avoided. 2.3 Mild to Moderate Hypocitraturia In patients with mild to moderate hypocitraturia (urinary citrate > 150 mg/day) therapy should be initiated at 30 mEq/day (15 mEq two times/day or 10 mEq three times/day with meals or within 30 minutes after meals or bedtime snack). Directions 1. Dry your teeth and rinse mouthpiece before use. 2. Looking in the mirror to record which stage you are with shade guide paper. 3. Twist whitening pen until the gel flows. apply the gel evenly on both upper and lower teeth. Each time use about 0.5-0.7ml. 4. Put mouthpiece into your mouth and bite it, then press power button for 1.5 seconds to start the treatment. (Tips: start with blue color, press again to turn red within 5 seconds; double press to turn red and blue within 5 seconds.) 5. The led light will turn off automatically after 16 minutes, rinse the mouthpiece and mouth with water and compare your teeth with shade guide paper again to see how many stages you have improved. 6. Don't eat or drink anything except water in 30 minutes after treatment. 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Objective: To restore normal urinary citrate (greater than 320 mg/day and as close to the normal mean of 640 mg/day as possible), and to increase urinary pH to a level of 6 to 7. Severe hypocitraturia (urinary citrate < 150 mg/day): therapy should be initiated at 60 mEq per day; a dose of 30 mEq two times per day or 20 mEq three times per day with meals or within 30 minutes after meals or bedtime snack (2.2) Mild to moderate hypocitraturia (urinary citrate > 150 mg/day): therapy should be initiated at 30 mEq per day; a dose of 15 mEq two times per day or 10 mEq three times per day with meals or within 30 minutes after meals or bedtime snack (2.3) 2.1 Dosing Instructions Treatment with extended release potassium citrate should be added to a regimen that limits salt intake (avoidance of foods with high salt content and of added salt at the table) and encourages high fluid intake (urine volume should be at least two liters per day). The objective of treatment with potassium citrate extended-release tablets is to provide potassium citrate in sufficient dosage to restore normal urinary citrate (greater than 320 mg/day and as close to the normal mean of 640 mg/day as possible), and to increase urinary pH to a level of 6 or 7. Doses of potassium citrate extended-release tablet greater than 100 mEq/day have not been studied and should be avoided. 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Objective: To restore normal urinary citrate (greater than 320 mg/day and as close to the normal mean of 640 mg/day as possible), and to increase urinary pH to a level of 6.0 to 7.0. Severe hypocitraturia (urinary citrate < 150 mg/day): therapy should be initiated at 60 mEq per day; a dose of 30 mEq two times per day or 20 mEq three times per day with meals or within 30 minutes after meals or bedtime snack ( 2.2 ) Mild to moderate hypocitraturia (urinary citrate >150 mg/day): therapy should be initiated at 30 mEq per day; a dose of 15 mEq two times per day or 10 mEq three times per day with meals or within 30 minutes after meals or bedtime snack ( 2.3 ) 2.1 Dosing Instructions Treatment with extended release potassium citrate should be added to a regimen that limits salt intake (avoidance of foods with high salt content and of added salt at the table) and encourages high fluid intake (urine volume should be at least two liters per day). The objective of treatment with potassium citrate extended-release tablets is to provide potassium citrate extended-release tablets in sufficient dosage to restore normal urinary citrate (greater than 320 mg/day and as close to the normal mean of 640 mg/day as possible), and to increase urinary pH to a level of 6.0 or 7.0. 2.3 Mild to Moderate Hypocitraturia In patients with mild to moderate hypocitraturia (urinary citrate > 150 mg/day) therapy should be initiated at 30 mEq/day (15 mEq two times/day or 10 mEq three times/day within 30 minutes after meals or bedtime snack). 1. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Tricitratesoral solution should be taken diluted in water, followed by additional water, if desired. Palatability is enhanced if chilled before taking. Usual Adult Dose 3 to 6 teaspoonfuls (15 to 30 mL), diluted in water, four times a day, after meals and at bedtime, or as directed by a physician. Usual Pediatric Dose 1 to 3 teaspoonfuls (5 to 15 mL), diluted in water, four times a day, after meals and at bedtime, or as directed by a physician. Usual Dosage Range 2 to 3 teaspoonfuls (10 to 15 mL), diluted with water, taken four times a day, will usually maintain a urinary pH of 6.5-7.4. 3 to 4 teaspoonfuls (15 to 20 mL), diluted with water, taken four times a day, will usually maintain a urinary pH of 7.0-7.6 throughout most of the 24 hours without unpleasant side effects. To check urine pH, HYDRION Paper (pH 6.0-8.0) or NITRAZINE Paper (pH 4.5-7.5) are available and easy to use. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Tricitrates SF Oral Solution should be taken diluted in water, followed by additional water, if desired.
Warnings: Warnings Don't swallow. Avoid applying gel on the gum and lips. Don't swallow. Avoid applying gel on the gum and lips.Avoid sunlight and keep in dry & cool place PRECAUTIONS AND WARNINGS Should be used with caution by patients with low urinary output or reduced glomerular filtration rates unless under the supervision of a physician. Aluminum-based antacids should be avoided in these patients. Patients should be directed to dilute adequately with water and, preferably, to take each dose after meals, to minimize the possibility of gastrointestinal injury associated with oral ingestion of potassium salt preparations and to avoid saline laxative effect. Sodium salts should be used cautiously in patients with cardiac failure, hypertension, peripheral and pulmonary edema, and toxemia of pregnancy. Concurrent administration of potassium-containing medication, potassium-sparing diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, or cardiac glycosides may lead to toxicity. Periodic examination and determinations of serum electrolytes, particularly serum bicarbonate level, should be carried out in those patients with renal disease in order to avoid these complications.
Contraindications: 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Potassium citrate extended-release tablets are contraindicated: In patients with hyperkalemia (or who have conditions predisposing them to hyperkalemia), as a further rise in serum potassium concentration may produce cardiac arrest. Such conditions include: chronic renal failure, uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, acute dehydration, strenuous physical exercise in unconditioned individuals, adrenal insufficiency, extensive tissue breakdown or the administration of a potassium-sparing agent (such as triamterene, spironolactone or amiloride). In patients in whom there is cause for arrest or delay in tablet passage through the gastrointestinal tract, such as those suffering from delayed gastric emptying, esophageal compression, intestinal obstruction or stricture, or those taking anticholinergic medication. In patients with peptic ulcer disease because of its ulcerogenic potential. In patients with active urinary tract infection (with either urea-splitting or other organisms, in association with either calcium or struvite stones). The ability of potassium citrate extended-release tablets to increase urinary citrate may be attenuated by bacterial enzymatic degradation of citrate. Moreover, the rise in urinary pH resulting from potassium citrate therapy might promote further bacterial growth. In patients with renal insufficiency (glomerular filtration rate of less than 0.7 ml/kg/min), because of the danger of soft tissue calcification and increased risk for the development of hyperkalemia. Patients with hyperkalemia (or who have conditions predisposing them to hyperkalemia). Such conditions include chronic renal failure, uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, acute dehydration, strenuous physical exercise in unconditioned individuals, adrenal insufficiency, extensive tissue breakdown (4) Patients for whom there is cause for arrest or delay in tablet passage through the gastrointestinal tract such as those suffering from delayed gastric emptying, esophageal compression, intestinal obstruction or stricture (4) Patients with peptic ulcer disease (4) Patients with active urinary tract infection (4) Patients with renal insufficiency (glomerular filtration rate of less than 0.7 ml/kg/min) (4) The ability of potassium citrate extended-release tablet to increase urinary citrate may be attenuated by bacterial enzymatic degradation of citrate. Moreover, the rise in urinary pH resulting from potassium citrate extended-release tablet therapy might promote further bacterial growth. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Potassium citrate extended- release tablets are contraindicated: In patients with hyperkalemia (or who have conditions predisposing them to hyperkalemia), as a further rise in serum potassium concentration may produce cardiac arrest. Such conditions include chronic renal failure, uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, acute dehydration, strenuous physical exercise in unconditioned individuals, adrenal insufficiency, extensive tissue breakdown ( 4 ) Patients for whom there is cause for arrest or delay in tablet passage through the gastrointestinal tract such as those suffering from delayed gastric emptying, esophageal compression, intestinal obstruction or stricture ( 4 ) Patients with peptic ulcer disease ( 4 ) Patients with active urinary tract infection ( 4 ) Patients with renal insufficiency (glomerular filtration rate of less than 0.7 ml/kg/min) ( 4 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients with hyperkalemia (or who have conditions predisposing them to hyperkalemia). Such conditions include chronic renal failure, uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, acute dehydration, strenuous physical exercise in unconditioned individuals, adrenal insufficiency, extensive tissue breakdown (4) Patients for whom there is cause for arrest or delay in tablet passage through the gastrointestinal tract such as those suffering from delayed gastric emptying, esophageal compression, intestinal obstruction or stricture (4) Patients with peptic ulcer disease (4) Patients with active urinary tract infection (4) Patients with renal insufficiency (glomerular filtration rate of less than 0.7 ml/kg/min) (4) Potassium citrate extended-release tablets are contraindicated: In patients with hyperkalemia (or who have conditions predisposing them to hyperkalemia), as a further rise in serum potassium concentration may produce cardiac arrest. 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Potassium citrate extended-release tablets are contraindicated: In patients with hyperkalemia (or who have conditions pre-disposing them to hyperkalemia), as a further rise in serum potassium concentration may produce cardiac arrest. Moreover, the rise in urinary pH resulting from potassium citrate extended-release tablets therapy might promote further bacterial growth. CONTRAINDICATIONS Severe renal impairment with oliguria or azotemia, untreated Addison's disease, or severe myocardial damage. In certain situations, when patients are on a sodium-restricted diet, the use of potassium citrate may be preferable; or, when patients are on a potassium-restricted diet, the use of sodium citrate may be preferable.
Interactions (label): 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The following drug interactions may occur with potassium citrate: Potassium-sparing diuretics: concomitant administration should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia (7.1) Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time: These agents (such as anticholinergics) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts (7.2) Renin-angiotensin-aldosterone inhibitors: Monitor for hyperkalemia (7.3) Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) monitor for hyperkalemia (7.4) 7.1 Potential Effects of Potassium Citrate on Other Drugs Potassium-sparing Diuretics: Concomitant administration of potassium citrate and a potassium-sparing diuretic (such as triamterene, spironolactone or amiloride) should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia. 7.2 Potential Effects of Other Drugs on Potassium Citrate Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time: These agents (such as anticholinergics) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts. 7.3 Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System Inhibitors Drugs that inhibit the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) including angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), spironolactone, eplerenone, or aliskiren produce potassium retention by inhibiting aldosterone production. Closely monitor potassium in patients receiving concomitant RAAS therapy. 7.4 Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) NSAIDs may produce potassium retention by reducing renal synthesis of prostagladin E and impairing the renin-angiotensin system. Closely monitor potassium in patients on concomitant NSAIDs. Closely monitor potassium in patients on concomitant NSAIDs 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The following drug interactions may occur with potassium citrate: Potassium-sparing diuretics: concomitant administration should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia ( 7.1 ) Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time: These agents (such as anticholinergics) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts ( 7.2 ) Renin-angiotensin-aldosterone inhibitors: Monitor for hyperkalemia ( 7.3 ) Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) monitor for hyperkalemia ( 7.4 ) 7.1 Potential Effects of Potassium Citrate on Other Drugs Potassium-sparing Diuretics : Concomitant administration of potassium citrate and a potassium-sparing diuretic (such as triamterene, spironolactone or amiloride) should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia. 7.2 Potential Effects of Other Drugs on Potassium citrate Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time : These agents (such as anticholinergics) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts. 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The following drug interactions may occur with potassium citrate: Potassium-sparing diuretics: concomitant administration should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia (7.1) Drugs that slow gastrointestinal transit time: These agents (such as anticholinergics) can be expected to increase the gastrointestinal irritation produced by potassium salts (7.2) Renin-angiotensin-aldosterone inhibitors: Monitor for hyperkalemia (7.3) Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) monitor for hyperkalemia (7.4) 7.1 Potential Effects of Potassium citrate on Other Drugs Potassium-sparing Diuretics: Concomitant administration of potassium citrate extended-release tablets and a potassium-sparing diuretic (such as triamterene, spironolactone or amiloride) should be avoided since the simultaneous administration of these agents can produce severe hyperkalemia. 7.3 Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System Inhibitors 7.3 Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System Inhibitors Drugs that inhibit the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) including angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), spironolactone, eplerenone, or aliskiren produce potassium retention by inhibiting aldosterone production.

=== POTASSIUM NITRATE AND SODIUM FLUORIDE ===
Matched labels: 10
Purpose: Purposes Antihypersensitivity Anticavity Active ingredients Purpose Potassium Nitrate 5% Antisensitivity Sodium Fluoride 0.24% (0.14% w/v fluoride ion) Anticavity Oral antiseptic Purpose Antihypersensitivity Anticavity Active Ingredients Purpose Potassium Nitrate 5% w/w Antihypersensitivity Sodium Fluoride 0.25% w/w Anticavity
Indications: Uses builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold, heat, acids, sweets, or contact. aids in the prevention of dental cavities. Uses builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold, heat, acids, sweets or contact helps protect against cavities Adults and children 12 years and older: Apply the product using one of the following methods: Apply evenly on a mouthguard, wear for 15–30 minutes, then remove and rinse. Or apply directly to sensitive teeth using a cotton swab or soft brush. Rub gently, leave for 2–3 minutes, rinse and spit out. Use once or twice daily as needed. Children under 12 years: ask a dentist. Uses Aids in the prevention of dental cavities Helps reduce painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold, heat, acids, sweets, or contact Use builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold, heat, acids, sweets or contact helps protect against cavities Uses Helps reduce painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold, heat, acids, sweets, or contact.
Dosage: Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older: apply at least a 1-inch strip of the product onto a soft bristle toothbrush. brush teeth thoroughly for at least 1 minute twice a day (morning and evening), and not more than 3 times a day, or as recommended by a dentist or doctor. Make sure to brush all sensitive areas of the teeth. Minimize swallowing. Spit out after brushing. children under 12 years of age: Consult a dentist or doctor. Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older apply at least a 1-inch strip of the product onto a soft bristle toothbrush. Brush teeth thoroughly for at least 1 minute twice a day (morning and evening) or as recommended by a dentist or physician. children under 12 years consult a dentist or physician Dosage: Potassium nitrate 2.6% ................................................ Tooth desensitizer Sodium fluoride 0.3% (0.14% w/v fluoride ion) ............ Anticavity Use: Builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold, heat, acids, sweets, or contact Aids in the prevention of dental cavities Brush teeth thoroughly for at least 1 minute twice a day (morning and evening) or as recommended by a dentist or doctor. Children under 12 yeasrs of age: Consult a dentist or doctor. children under 12 years: Consult a dentist or doctor.
Warnings: Warnings Stop use and ask a dentist if the problem persists or worsens. Sensitive teeth may indicate a serious problem that may need prompt care by a dentist. pain/sensitivity still persists after 4 weeks of use. Keep out of reach of children. If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Warnings When using this product, if pain/sensitivity still persists after 4 weeks of use, please visit your dentist. Stop use and ask a dentist if the problem persists or worsens. Keep out of reach of children If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Do not use in children under 12 years of age unless recommended by a dentist or physician Stop use and ask a dentist if the problem persists or worsens. Sensitive teeth may indicate a serious problem that may need prompt care. If more than used for treatment is accidentally swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away. Patients with gingival ulcers, stomatitis, or oral mucosal ulcers should use with caution. Warnings Sensitive teeth may indicate a serious problem that may need prompt care by a dentist. See your dentist if the problem persists or worsens. Do not use this product longer than 4 weeks unless recommended by a dentist or doctor Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age. If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed, get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Do not use this product longer than 4 weeks unless recommended by a dentist or doctor. Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age.

=== THEOPHYLLINE ===
Matched labels: 10
Indications: INDICATIONS AND USAGE Theophylline is indicated for the treatment of the symptoms and reversible airflow obstruction associated with chronic asthma and other chronic lung diseases, e.g., emphysema and chronic bronchitis. INDICATIONS AND USAGE: Theophylline extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of the symptoms and reversible airflow obstruction associated with chronic asthma and other chronic lung diseases, e.g., emphysema and chronic bronchitis. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Theophylline extended-release tablets are indicated for the treatment of the symptoms and reversible airflow obstruction associated with chronic asthma and other chronic lung diseases, e.g., emphysema and chronic bronchitis. INDICATIONS AND USAGE Theophylline oral solution is indicated for the treatment of the symptoms and reversible airflow obstruction associated with chronic asthma and other chronic lung diseases, e.g., emphysema and chronic bronchitis.
Dosage: DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Theophylline (Anhydrous) Extended-Release Tablets 400 or 600 mg can be taken once a day in the morning or evening. It is recommended that Theophylline (Anhydrous) Extended-Release Tablets be taken with meals. Patients should be advised that if they choose to take Theophylline (Anhydrous) Extended-Release Tablets with food it should be taken consistently with food and if they take it in a fasted condition it should routinely be taken fasted. It is important that the product whenever dosed be dosed consistently with or without food. Theophylline (Anhydrous) Extended-Release Tablets are not to be chewed or crushed because it may lead to a rapid release of theophylline with the potential for toxicity. The scored tablet may be split. Infrequently, patients receiving Theophylline (Anhydrous) Extended-Release Tablets 400 or 600 mg may pass an intact matrix tablet in the stool or via colostomy. These matrix tablets usually contain little or no residual theophylline. Stabilized patients, 12 years of age or older, who are taking an immediate-release or controlled-release theophylline product may be transferred to once-daily administration of 400 or 600 mg Theophylline (Anhydrous) Extended-Release Tablets on a mg-for-mg basis. It must be recognized that the peak and trough serum theophylline levels produced by the once-daily dosing may vary from those produced by the previous product and/or regimen. General Considerations The steady-state peak serum theophylline concentration is a function of the dose, the dosing interval, and the rate of theophylline absorption and clearance in the individual patient. Because of marked individual differences in the rate of theophylline clearance, the dose required to achieve a peak serum theophylline concentration in the 10-20 mcg/mL range varies fourfold among otherwise similar patients in the absence of factors known to alter theophylline clearance (e.g., 400‑1600 mg/day in adults <60 years old and 10-36 mg/kg/day in children 1-9 years old). For a given population there is no single theophylline dose that will provide both safe and effective serum concentrations for all patients. Administration of the median theophylline dose required to achieve a therapeutic serum theophylline concentration in a given population may result in either sub-therapeutic or potentially toxic serum theophylline concentrations in individual patients. For example, at a dose of 900 mg/d in adults <60 years or 22 mg/kg/d in children 1-9 years, the steady-state peak serum theophylline concentration will be <10 mcg/mL in about 30% of patients, 10-20 mcg/mL in about 50% and 20-30 mcg/mL in about 20% of patients. The dose of theophylline must be individualized on the basis of peak serum theophylline concentration measurements in order to achieve a dose that will provide maximum potential benefit with minimal risk of adverse effects . Transient caffeine-like adverse effects and excessive serum concentrations in slow metabolizers can be avoided in most patients by starting with a sufficiently low dose and slowly increasing the dose, if judged to be clinically indicated , in small increments (See Table V ). Dose increases should only be made if the previous dosage is well tolerated and at intervals of no less than 3 days to allow serum theophylline concentrations to reach the new steady-state. Dosage adjustment should be guided by serum theophylline concentration measurement (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Table VI ). Healthcare providers should instruct patients and caregivers to discontinue any dosage that causes adverse effects, to withhold the medication until these symptoms are gone and to then resume therapy at a lower, previously tolerated dosage (see WARNINGS ). If the patient's symptoms are well controlled, there are no apparent adverse effects, and no intervening factors that might alter dosage requirements (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ), serum theophylline concentrations should be monitored at 6 month intervals for rapidly growing children and at yearly intervals for all others. In acutely ill patients, serum theophylline concentrations should be monitored at frequent intervals, e.g., every 24 hours. Theophylline distributes poorly into body fat, therefore, mg/kg dose should be calculated on the basis of ideal body weight. Table V contains theophylline dosing titration schema recommended for patients in various age groups and clinical circumstances. Table VI contains recommendations for theophylline dosage adjustment based upon serum theophylline concentrations. Application of these general dosing recommendations to individual patients must take into account the unique clinical characteristics of each patient. In general, these recommendations should serve as the upper limit for dosage adjustments in order to decrease the risk of potentially serious adverse events associated with unexpected large increases in serum theophylline concentration . Table V. Dosing initiation and titration (as anhydrous theophylline). Patients with more rapid metabolism clinically identified by higher than average dose requirements, should receive a smaller dose more frequently (every 12 hours) to prevent breakthrough symptoms resulting from low trough concentrations before the next dose. A. Children (12-15 years) and adults (16-60 years) without risk factors for impaired clearance . Titration Step Children <45 kg Children >45 kg and adults 1. Starting Dosage 12-14 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 300 mg/day admin. QD 300 mg/day If caffeine-like adverse effects occur, then consideration should be given to a lower dose and titrating the dose more slowly (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). admin. QD 2. After 3 days, if tolerated , increase dose to: 16 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 400 mg/day admin. QD 400-600 mg/day admin. QD 3. After 3 more days, if tolerated , and if needed increase dose to: 20 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 600 mg/day admin. QD As with all theophylline products, doses greater than 600 mg should be titrated according to blood level (See Table VI ). B. Patients With Risk Factors For Impaired Clearance, The Elderly (>60 Years), And Those In Whom It Is Not Feasible To Monitor Serum Theophylline Concentrations : In children 12-15 years of age, the theophylline dose should not exceed 16 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 400 mg/day in the presence of risk factors for reduced theophylline clearance (see WARNINGS ) or if it is not feasible to monitor serum theophylline concentrations. In adolescents ≥16 years and adults, including the elderly, the theophylline dose should not exceed 400 mg/day in the presence of risk factors for reduced theophylline clearance (see WARNINGS ) or if it is not feasible to monitor serum theophylline concentrations. Table VI. Dosage adjustment guided by serum theophylline concentration. Peak Serum Concentration Dosage Adjustment <9.9 mcg/mL If symptoms are not controlled and current dosage is tolerated, increase dose about 25%. Recheck serum concentration after three days for further dosage adjustment. 10-14.9 mcg/mL If symptoms are controlled and current dosage is tolerated, maintain dose and recheck serum concentration at 6-12 month intervals. Dose reduction and/or serum theophylline concentration measurement is indicated whenever adverse effects are present physiologic abnormalities that can reduce theophylline clearance occur (e.g., sustained fever), or a drug that interacts with theophylline is added or discontinued (see WARNINGS ). If symptoms are not controlled and current dosage is tolerated consider adding additional medication(s) to treatment regimen. 15-19.9 mcg/mL Consider 10% decrease in dose to provide greater margin of safety even if current dosage is tolerated. 20-24.9 mcg/mL Decrease dose by 25% even if no adverse effects are present. Recheck serum concentration after 3 days to guide further dosage adjustment. 25-30 mcg/mL Skip next dose and decrease subsequent doses at least 25% even if no adverse effects are present. If symptomatic, consider whether overdose treatment is indicated (see recommendations for chronic overdosage ). >30 mcg/mL Treat overdose as indicated (see recommendations for chronic overdosage ). If theophylline is subsequently resumed, decrease dose by at least 50% and recheck serum concentration after 3 days to guide further dosage adjustment. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION: Taking theophylline extended-release tablets immediately after a high-fat content meal may result in a somewhat higher C max and delayed T max and somewhat greater extent of absorption. However, the differences are usually not great and this product may normally be administered without regard to meals (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Drug interactions, Drug-Food Interactions ). Theophylline extended-release tablets are recommended for chronic or long-term management and prevention of symptoms, and not for use in treating acute symptoms of asthma and reversible bronchospasm. General considerations: The steady-state peak serum theophylline concentration is a function of the dose, the dosing interval, and the rate of theophylline absorption and clearance in the individual patient. Because of marked individual differences in the rate of theophylline clearance, the dose required to achieve a peak serum theophylline concentration in the 10-20 mcg/mL range varies fourfold among otherwise similar patients in the absence of factors known to alter theophylline clearance (e.g., 400- 1600 mg/day in adults <60 years old and 10-36 mg/kg/day in children 1-9 years old). The dose of theophylline must be individualized on the basis of peak serum theophylline concentration measurements in order to achieve a dose that will provide maximum potential benefit with minimal risk of adverse effects. Transient caffeine-like adverse effects and excessive serum concentrations in slow metabolizers can be avoided in most patients by starting with a sufficiently low dose and slowly increasing the dose, if judged to be clinically indicated , in small increments (see Table V). Dose increases should only be made if the previous dosage is well tolerated and at intervals of no less than 3 days to allow serum theophylline concentrations to reach the new steady state. Health care providers should instruct patients and care givers to discontinue any dosage that causes adverse effects, to withhold the medication until these symptoms are gone and to then resume therapy at a lower, previously tolerated dosage (see WARNINGS ). In general, these recommendations should serve as the upper limit for dosage adjustments in order to decrease the risk of potentially serious adverse events associated with unexpected large increases in serum theophylline concentration. Children (6-15 years) and adults (16-60 years) without risk factors for impaired clearance Table V. Dosing initiation and titration (as anhydrous theophylline)* Titration Step Children < 45 kg Children > 45 kg and adults 1 Starting Dosage 12-14 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 300 mg/day divided Q12 hrs* 300 mg/day divided Q12 hrs* 2 After 3 days, if tolerated , increase dose to: 16 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 400 mg/day divided Q12 hrs* 400 mg/day divided Q12 hrs* 3 After 3 more days, if tolerated , increase dose to: 20 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 600 mg/day divided Q12 hrs* 600 mg/day divided Q12 hrs* B. Patients With Risk Factors For Impaired Clearance, The Elderly (>60 Years), And Those In Whom It Is Not Feasible To Monitor Serum Theophylline Concentrations: In children 6-15 years of age, the final theophylline dose should not exceed 16 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 400 mg/day in the presence of risk factors for reduced theophylline clearance (see WARNINGS ) or if it is not feasible to monitor serum theophylline concentrations. In adolescents ≥16 years and adults, including the elderly, the final theophylline dose should not exceed 400 mg/day in the presence of risk factors for reduced theophylline clearance (see WARNINGS ) or if it is not feasible to monitor serum theophylline concentrations. * Patients with more rapid metabolism, clinically identified by higher than average dose requirements, should receive a smaller dose more frequently (every 8 hours) to prevent breakthrough symptoms resulting from low trough concentrations before the next dose. 10 to 14.9 mcg/mL If symptoms are controlled and current dosage is tolerated, maintain dose and recheck serum concentration at 6-12 month intervals.¶ If symptoms are not controlled and current dosage is tolerated consider adding additional medication(s) to treatment regimen. 15-19.9 mcg/mL Consider 10% decrease in dose to provide greater margin of safety even if current dosage is tolerated.¶ 20-24.9 mcg/mL Decrease dose by 25% even if no adverse effects are present. If symptomatic, consider whether overdose treatment is indicated (see recommendations for chronic over dosage). >30 mcg/mL Treat overdose as indicated (see recommendations for chronic overdosage). ¶ Dose reduction and/or serum theophylline concentration measurement is indicated whenever adverse effects are present, physiologic abnormalities that can reduce theophylline clearance occur (e.g., sustained fever), or a drug that interacts with theophylline is added or discontinued (see WARNINGS ). Once-Daily Dosing: The slow absorption rate of this preparation may allow once-daily administration in adult non-smokers with appropriate total body clearance and other patients with low dosage requirements. Once-daily dosing should be considered only after the patient has been gradually and satisfactorily titrated to therapeutic levels with q12h dosing. Once-daily dosing should be based on twice the q12h dose and should be initiated at the end of the last q12h dosing interval. The trough concentration (C min ) obtained following conversion to once-daily dosing may be lower (especially in high clearance patients) and the peak concentration (C max ) may be higher (especially in low clearance patients) than that obtained with q12h dosing. If symptoms recur, or signs of toxicity appear during the once-daily dosing interval, dosing on the q12h basis should be reinstituted. It is essential that serum theophylline concentrations be monitored before and after transfer to once-daily dosing. Food and posture, along with changes associated with circadian rhythm, may influence the rate of absorption and / or clearance rates of theophylline from extended-release dosage forms administered at night. The exact relationship of these and other factors to nighttime serum concentrations and the clinical significance of such findings require additional study. Therefore, it is not recommended that theophylline extended-release once-daily dosing be administered at night. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION General Considerations: The steady-state peak serum theophylline concentration is a function of the dose, the dosing interval, and the rate of theophylline absorption and clearance in the individual patient. For example, at a dose of 900 mg/d in adults <60 years or 22 mg/kg/d in children 1-9 years, the steady state peak serum theophylline concentration will be <10 mcg/mL in about 30% of patients, 10-20 mcg/mL in about 50% and 20-30 mcg/mL in about 20% of patients. The dose of theophylline must be individualized on the basis of peak serum theophylline concentration measurements in order to achieve a dose that will provide maximum potential benefit with minimal risk to adverse effects. Transient caffeine-like adverse effects and excessive serum concentrations in slow metabolizers can be avoided in most patients by starting with a sufficiently low dose and slowly increasing the dose, if judged to be clinically indicated, in small increments (See Table V). Dosage adjustment should be guided by serum theophylline concentration measurement (see PRECAUTIONS , Laboratory Tests and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Table VI ). Dosing initiation and titration (as anhydrous theophylline).* A. Infants <1 year old. Initial Dosage a. Premature Neonates: i.< 24 days postnatal age; 1.0 mg/kg every 12 hr ii.≥ 24 days postnatal age; 1.5 mg/kg every 12 hr b. Full term infants and infants up to 52 weeks of age: Total daily dose (mg) = [(0.2 x age in weeks)+5.0] x (Kg body Wt). i.up to age 26 weeks; divide dose into 3 equal amounts administered at 8 hour intervals. ii.≥26 weeks of age; divide dose into 4 equal amounts administered at 6 hour intervals. 2. Final Dosage. Adjusted to maintain a peak steady state serum theophylline concentration of 5-10 mcg/ml in neonates and 10-15 mcg/mL in older infants (see TableVI ). Since the time required to reach steady state is a function of theophylline half-life, up to 5 days may be required to achieve steady state in a premature neonate, while only 2-3 days may be required in a 6 month old infant without other risk factors for impaired clearance in the absence of a loading dose. If a serum theophylline concentration is obtained before steady state is achieved, the maintenance dose should not be increased, even if the serum theophylline concentration is <10 mcg/mL. Children (1-15 years) and adults (16-60 years) without risk factors for impaired clearance. Titration Step Children < 45 Kg Children > 45 Kg and Adults 1. Starting Dosage 12-14 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 300 mg/day divided Q4-6 hrs* 300 mg/day divided Q6-8 hrs* 2. After 3 days, if tolerated, increase dose to: 16 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 400 mg/day divided Q4-6 hrs* 400 mg/day divided Q6-8 hrs* 3. After 3 more days, if tolerated dose to: 20 mg/kg/day increase up to a maximum of 600 mg/day divided Q4-6 hrs* 600 mg/day divided Q6-8 hrs* C. Patients With Risk Factors For Impaired Clearance, The Elderly (>60 Years), And Those In Whom It Is Not Feasible To Monitor Serum Theophylline Concentrations: In children 1-15 years of age, the final theophylline dose should not exceed 16 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 400 mg/day in the presence of risk factors for reduced theophylline clearance (see WARNINGS ) or if it is not feasible to monitor serum theophylline concentrations. In adolescents 16 years and adults, including the elderly, the final theophylline dose should not exceed 400 mg/day in the presence of risk factors for reduced theophylline clearance (see WARNINGS ) or if it is not feasible to monitor serum theophylline concentrations. D. Loading Dose for Acute Bronchodilatation: An inhaled beta-2 selective agonist, alone or in combination with a systemically administered corticosteroid, is the most effective treatment for acute exacerbations of reversible airways obstruction. Theophylline is a relatively weak bronchodilator, is less effective than an inhaled beta-2 selective agonist and provides no added benefit in the treatment of acute bronchospasm. If an inhaled or parenteral beta agonist is not available, a loading dose of an oral immediate release theophylline can be used as a temporary measure. A single 5 mg/kg dose of theophylline, in a patient who has not received any theophylline in the previous 24 hours, will produce an average peak serum theophylline concentration of 10 mcg/mL (range 5-15 mcg/mL). If dosing with theophylline is to be continued beyond the loading dose, the guidelines in Sections A.1.b., B.3, or C., above, should be utilized and serum theophylline concentration monitored at 24 hour intervals to adjust final dosage. * Patients with more rapid metabolism, clinically identified by higher than average dose requirements, should receive a smaller dose more frequently to prevent breakthrough symptoms resulting from low trough concentrations before the next dose. A reliably absorbed slow-release formulation will decrease fluctuations and permit longer dosing intervals. Recheck serum concentration after three days for further dosage adjustment 10 - 14.9 mcg/mL If symptoms are controlled and current dosage is tolerated, maintain dose and recheck serum concentration at 6-12 month intervals. 15 - 19.9 mcg/mL Consider 10% decrease in dose to provide greater margin of safety even if current dosage is tolerated. 20 - 24.9 mcg/mL Decrease dose by 25% even if no adverse effects are present. 25 - 30 mcg/mL Skip next dose and decrease subsequent doses at least 25% even if no adverse effects are present. If symptomatic, consider whether overdose treatment is indicated (see recommendations for chronic overdosage). Dose reduction and/or serum theophylline concentration measurement is indicated whenever adverse effects are present, physiologic abnormalities that can reduce theophylline clearance occur (e.g., sustained fever), or a drug that interacts with theophylline is added or discontinued (see WARNINGS ). DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Taking theophylline extended-release tablets immediately after a high-fat content meal may result in a somewhat higher C max and delayed T max and somewhat greater extent of absorption. Because of marked individual differences in the rate of theophylline clearance, the dose required to achieve a peak serum theophylline concentration in the 10 mcg/mL to 20 mcg/mL range varies fourfold among otherwise similar patients in the absence of factors known to alter theophylline clearance (e.g., 400 mg/day to 1,600 mg/day in adults <60 years old and 10 mg/kg/day to 36 mg/kg/day in children 1 to 9 years old). For example, at a dose of 900 mg/d in adults <60 years or 22 mg/kg/d in children 1 to 9 years, the steady-state peak serum theophylline concentration will be <10 mcg/mL in about 30% of patients, 10 mcg/mL to 20 mcg/mL in about 50% and 20 mcg/mL to 30 mcg/mL in about 20% of patients. Dosing initiation and titration (as anhydrous theophylline) * A. Children (6 to 15 years) and Adults (16 to 60 years) Without Risk Factors for Impaired Clearance. Titration Step Children < 45 kg Children > 45 kg and adults 1 Starting Dosage 12 mg/kg/day to 14 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 300 mg/day divided Q12 hrs * 300 mg/day divided Q12 hrs * 2 After 3 days, if tolerated, increase dose to: 16 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 400 mg/day divided Q12 hrs * 400 mg/day divided Q12 hrs * 3 After 3 more days, if tolerated, increase dose to: 20 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 600 mg/day divided Q12 hrs * 600 mg/day divided Q12 hrs * B. Patients with Risk Factors for Impaired Clearance, the Elderly (>60 Years), and Those in Whom it is Not Feasible to Monitor Serum Theophylline Concentrations: In children 6 to 15 years of age, the final theophylline dose should not exceed 16 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 400 mg/day in the presence of risk factors for reduced theophylline clearance (see WARNINGS ) or if it is not feasible to monitor serum theophylline concentrations. 10 mcg/mL to 14.9 mcg/mL If symptoms are controlled and current dosage is tolerated, maintain dose and recheck serum concentration at 6 to 12 month intervals. ¶ If symptoms are not controlled and current dosage is tolerated consider adding additional medication(s) to treatment regimen. 15 mcg/mL to 19.9 mcg/mL Consider 10% decrease in dose to provide greater margin of safety even if current dosage is tolerated. ¶ 20 mcg/mL to 24.9 mcg/mL Decrease dose by 25% even if no adverse effects are present. 25 mcg/mL to 30 mcg/mL Skip next dose and decrease subsequent doses at least 25% even if no adverse effects are present. Food and posture, along with changes associated with circardien rhythm, may influence the rate of absorption and / or clearance rates of theophylline from extended-release dosage forms administered at night. However, the differences are usually not great and this product may normally be administered without regard to meals (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Drug interactions , Drug-Food Interactions ). Dosage adjustment should be guided by serum theophylline concentration measurement (see PRECAUTIONS , Laboratory Tests and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Table VI). Health care providers should instruct patients and care givers to discontinue any dosage that causes adverse effects, to withhold the medication until these symptoms are gone and to then resume therapy at a lower, previously tolerated dosage (see WARNINGS ) . If the patient's symptoms are well controlled, there are no apparent adverse effects, and no intervening factors that might alter dosage requirements (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) , serum theophylline concentrations should be monitored at 6 month intervals for rapidly growing children and at yearly intervals for all others. Dosing initiation and titration (as anhydrous theophylline)* A. Children (6-15 years) and adults (16-60 years) without risk factors for impaired clearance. Titration Step Children < 45 kg Children > 45 kg and adults 1 Starting Dosage 12-14 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 300 mg/day divided Q12 hrs* 300 mg/day divided Q12 hrs* 2 After 3 days, if tolerated , increase dose to: 16 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 400 mg/day divided Q12 hrs* 400 mg/day divided Q12 hrs* 3 After 3 more days, if tolerated , increase dose to: 20 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 600 mg/day divided Q12 hrs* 600 mg/day divided Q12 hrs* B. The trough concentration (C min ) obtained following conversion to once-daily dosing may be lower (especially in high clearance patients) and the peak concentration (C max­ ) may be higher (especially in low clearance patients) than that obtained with q12h dosing. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION General Considerations The steady-state peak serum theophylline concentration is a function of the dose, the dosing interval, and the rate of theophylline absorption and clearance in the individual patient. Because of marked individual differences in the rate of theophylline clearance, the dose required to achieve a peak serum theophylline concentration in the 10-20 mcg/mL range varies fourfold among otherwise similar patients in the absence of factors known to alter theophylline clearance (e.g., 400-1600 mg/day in adults <60 years old and 10-36 mg/kg/day in children 1-9 years old). Dosage adjustment should be guided by serum theophylline concentration measurement (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Table VI). 1. Premature Neonates: i. <24 days postnatal age; 1.0 mg/kg every 12 hr ii. ≥24 days postnatal age; 1.5 mg/kg every 12 hr b. Full term infants and infants up to 52 weeks of age: Total daily dose (mg) = [(0.2 × age in weeks)+5.0] × (Kg body Wt). i. Up to age 26 weeks; divide dose into 3 equal amounts administered at 8 hour intervals. ii. >26 weeks of age; divide dose into 4 equal amounts administered at 6 hour intervals. Adjusted to maintain a peak steady state serum theophylline concentration of 5-10 mcg/mL in neonates and 10-15 mcg/mL in older infants (see Table VI). Titration Step Children <45 kg Children >45 kg and adults Starting Dosage 12-14 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 300 mg/day divided Q4-6 hrs* 300 mg/day divided Q6-8 hrs* After 3 days, if tolerated , increase dose to: 16 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 400 mg/day divided Q4-6 hrs* 400 mg/day divided Q6-8 hrs* After 3 more days, if tolerated , increase dose to: 20 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 600 mg/day divided Q4-6 hrs* 600 mg/day divided Q6-8 hrs* C. Patients with more rapid metabolism, clinically identified by higher than average dose requirements, should receive a smaller dose more frequently to prevent breakthrough symptoms resulting from low trough concentrations before the next dose. 10 - 14.9 mcg/mL If symptoms are controlled and current dosage is tolerated, maintain dose and recheck serum concentration at 6-12 month intervals. * If symptoms are not controlled and current dosage is tolerated consider adding additional medication(s) to treatment regimen. ¶ 20 - 24.9 mcg/mL Decrease dose by 25% even if no adverse effects are present. Transient caffeine-like adverse effects and excessive serum concentrations in slow metabolizers can be avoided in most patients by starting with a sufficiently low dose and slowly increasing the dose, i f judged to be clinically indicated , in small increments (see Table V). Dose increases should only be made if the previous dosage is well tolerated and atintervals of no less than 3 days to allow serum theophylline concentrations to reach the new steady state. Dosage adjustment should be guided by serum theophylline concentration measurement (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Table VI). Titration Step Children < 45 kg Children > 45 kg and adults 1 Starting Dosage 12-14 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 300 mg/day divided Q12 hrs* 300 mg/day divided Q12 hrs* 2 After 3 days, i f tolerated , increase dose to: 16 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 400 mg/day divided Q12 hrs* 400 mg/day divided Q12 hrs* 3 After 3 more days, if tolerated , increase dose to: 20 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 600 mg/day divided Q12 hrs* 600 mg/day divided Q12 hrs* B. The trough concentration (Cmin) obtained following conversion to once-daily dosing may be lower (especially in high clearance patients) and the peak concentration (Cmax) may be higher (especially in low clearance patients) than that obtained with q12h dosing. Because of marked individual differences in the rate of theophylline clearance, the dose required to achieve a peak serum theophylline concentration in the 10 to 20 mcg/mL range varies fourfold among otherwise similar patients in the absence of factors known to alter theophylline clearance (e.g., 400 to 1600 mg/day in adults < 60 years old and 10 to 36 mg/kg/day in children 1 to 9 years old). For example, at a dose of 900 mg/d in adults < 60 years or 22 mg/kg/d in children 1 to 9 years, the steady-state peak serum theophylline concentration will be < 10 mcg/mL in about 30% of patients, 10 to 20 mcg/mL in about 50% and 20 to 30 mcg/mL in about 20% of patients. Transient caffeine-like adverse effects and excessive serum concentrations in slow metabolizers can be avoided in most patients by starting with a sufficiently low dose and slowly increasing the dose, if judged to be clinically indicated, in small increments (See Table V ). If the patient’s symptoms are well controlled, there are no apparent adverse effects, and no intervening factors that might alter dosage requirements (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ), serum theophylline concentrations should be monitored at 6 month intervals for rapidly growing children and at yearly intervals for all others. Dosing initiation and titration (as anhydrous theophylline).* Infants < 1 year old. Initial Dosage. Premature Neonates: < 24 days postnatal age; 1 mg/kg every 12 hr ≥ 24 days postnatal age; 1.5 mg/kg every 12 hr Full term infants and infants up to 52 weeks of age: Total daily dose (mg) = [(0.2 x age in weeks)+5.0] x (Kg body Wt). > 26 weeks of age; divide dose into 4 equal amounts administered at 6 hour intervals. Adjusted to maintain a peak steady-state serum theophylline concentration of 5 to 10 mcg/mL in neonates and 10 to 15 mcg/mL in older infants (see Table VI ). Since the time required to reach steady-state is a function of theophylline half-life, up to 5 days may be required to achieve steady-state in a premature neonate while only 2 to 3 days may be required in a 6 month old infant without other risk factors for impaired clearance in the absence of a loading dose. If a serum theophylline concentration is obtained before steady-state is achieved, the maintenance dose should not be increased, even if the serum theophylline concentration is < 10 mcg/mL. Children (1 to 15 years) and adults (16 to 60 years) without risk factors for impaired clearance. Use In Patients With Impaired Renal Function Titration Step Children < 45 kg Children > 45 kg and adults 1. Starting Dosage 12 to 14 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 300 mg/day divided Q4 to 6 hrs* 300 mg/day divided Q6 to 8 hrs* 2. After 3 days, if tolerated, increase dose to: 16 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 400 mg/day divided Q4 to 6 hrs* 400 mg/day divided Q6 to 8 hrs* 3. After 3 more days, if tolerated, increase dose to: 20 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 600 mg/day divided Q4 to 6 hrs* 600 mg/day divided Q6 to 8 hrs* C. Patients With Risk Factors For Impaired Clearance, The Elderly (> 60 Years), And Those In Whom It Is Not Feasible To Monitor Serum Theophylline Concentrations: In children 1 to 15 years of age, the final theophylline dose should not exceed 16 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 400 mg/day in the presence of risk factors for reduced theophylline clearance (see WARNINGS ) or if it is not feasible to monitor serum theophylline concentrations. In adolescents ≥ 16 years and adults, including the elderly, the final theophylline dose should not exceed 400 mg/day in the presence of risk factors for reduced theophylline clearance (see WARNINGS ) or if it is not feasible to monitor serum theophylline concentrations. A single 5 mg/kg dose of theophylline, in a patient who has not received any theophylline in the previous 24 hours, will produce an average peak serum theophylline concentration of 10 mcg/mL (range 5 to 15 mcg/mL). Peak Serum Concentration Dosage Adjustment < 9.9 mcg/mL If symptoms are not controlled and current dosage is tolerated, increase dose about 25%. 10 to 14.9 mcg/mL If symptoms are controlled and current dosage is tolerated, maintain dose and recheck serum concentration at 6 to 12 month intervals. 15 to 19.9 mcg/mL Consider 10% decrease in dose to provide greater margin of safety even if current dosage is tolerated. ¶ 20 to 24.9 mcg/mL Decrease dose by 25% even if no adverse effects are present. 25 to 30 mcg/mL Skip next dose and decrease subsequent doses at least 25% even if no adverse effects are present. > 30 mcg/mL Treat overdose as indicated (see recommendations for chronic overdosage ). Because of marked individual differences in the rate of theophylline clearance, the dose required to achieve a peak serum theophylline concentration in the 10 to 20 mcg/mL range varies fourfold among otherwise similar patients in the absence of factors known to alter theophylline clearance (e.g., 400 to 1600 mg/day in adults <60 years old and 10 to 36 mg/kg/day in children 1 to 9 years old). For example, at a dose of 900 mg/d in adults <60 years or 22 mg/kg/d in children 1 to 9 years, the steady-state peak serum theophylline concentration will be <10 mcg/mL in about 30% of patients, 10 to 20 mcg/mL in about 50% and 20 to 30 mcg/mL in about 20% of patients. Titration Step Children < 45 kg Children > 45 kg and adults 1 Starting Dosage 12 to 14 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 300 mg/day divided Q12 hrs* 300 mg/day divided Q12 hrs* 2 After 3 days, if tolerated , increase dose to: 16 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 400 mg/day divided Q12 hrs* 400 mg/day divided Q12 hrs* 3 After 3 more days, if tolerated , increase dose to: 20 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 600 mg/day divided Q12 hrs* 600 mg/day divided Q12 hrs* B. Dosage adjustment guided by serum theophylline concentration Peak Serum Concentration Dosage Adjustment <9.9 mcg/mL If symptoms are not controlled and current dosage is tolerated, increase dose about 25%. 10 to 14.9 mcg/mL If symptoms are controlled and current dosage is tolerated, maintain dose and recheck serum concentration at 6 to 12 month intervals.¶ If symptoms are not controlled and current dosage is tolerated consider adding additional medication(s) to treatment regimen. 15 to 19.9 mcg/mL Consider 10% decrease in dose to provide greater margin of safety even if current dosage is tolerated.¶ 20 to 24.9 mcg/mL Decrease dose by 25% even if no adverse effects are present. It is essential that serum theophylline concentrations be monitored before and after transfer to once- daily dosing. The exact relationship of these and other factors to night time serum concentrations and the clinical significance of such findings require additional study. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Theophylline 400 or 600 mg extended-release tablets can be taken once a day in the morning or evening. It is recommended that theophylline extended-release tablets be taken with meals. Patients should be advised that if they choose to take theophylline extended-release tablets with food it should be taken consistently with food and if they take it in a fasted condition it should routinely be taken fasted. Theophylline extended-release tablets are not to be chewed or crushed because it may lead to a rapid release of theophylline with the potential for toxicity. The tablet may be split. Infrequently, patients receiving theophylline extended-release tablets 400 or 600 mg may pass an intact matrix tablet in the stool or via colostomy. Stabilized patients, 12 years of age or older, who are taking an immediate-release or controlled-release theophylline product may be transferred to once-daily administration of 400 mg or 600 mg theophylline extended-release tablets on a mg-for-mg basis. For example, at a dose of 900 mg/d in adults <60 years or 22 mg/kg/d in children 1 to years, the steady-state peak serum theophylline concentration will be <10 mcg/mL in about 30% of patients, 10 to 20 mcg/mL in about 50% and 20 to 30 mcg/mL in about 20% of patients. Children (12 to 15 years) and adults (16 to 60 years) without risk factors for impaired clearance. Starting Dosage 12 to 14 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 300 mg/day admin. QD 300 to 400 mg/day If caffeine-like adverse effects occur, then consideration should be given to a lower dose and titrating the dose more slowly (see ADVERSE REACTIONS ). QD 400 to 600 mg/day admin. QD As with all theophylline products, doses greater than 600 mg should be titrated according to blood level (see Table VI ) B. Patients With Risk Factors For Impaired Clearance, The Elderly (>60 Years), And Those In Whom It Is Not Feasible To Monitor Serum Theophylline Concentrations: In children 12 to 15 years of age, the theophylline dose should not exceed 16 mg/kg/day up to a maximum of 400 mg/day in the presence of risk factors for reduced theophylline clearance (see WARNINGS ) or if it is not feasible to monitor serum theophylline concentrations. 10-14.9 mcg/mL If symptoms are controlled and current dosage is tolerated, maintain dose and recheck serum concentration at 6 to 12 month intervals. Dose reduction and/or serum theophylline concentration measurement is indicated whenever adverse effects are present physiologic abnormalities that can reduce theophylline clearance occur (e.g. sustained fever), or a drug that interacts with theophylline is added or discontinued (see WARNINGS ). > 30 mcg/mL Treat overdose as indicated (see recommendations for chronic overdosage).
Warnings: WARNINGS Concurrent Illness Theophylline should be used with extreme caution in patients with the following clinical conditions due to the increased risk of exacerbation of the concurrent condition: Active peptic ulcer disease Seizure disorders Cardiac arrhythmias (not including bradyarrhythmias) Conditions That Reduce Theophylline Clearance There are several readily identifiable causes of reduced theophylline clearance. If the total daily dose is not appropriately reduced in the presence of these risk factors, severe and potentially fatal theophylline toxicity can occur . Careful consideration must be given to the benefits and risks of theophylline use and the need for more intensive monitoring of serum theophylline concentrations in patients with the following risk factors: Age Neonates (term and premature) Children <1 year Elderly (>60 years) Concurrent Diseases Acute pulmonary edema Congestive heart failure Cor-pulmonale Fever; ≥102° for 24 hours or more; or lesser temperature elevations for longer periods Hypothyroidism Liver disease; cirrhosis, acute hepatitis Reduced renal function in infants <3 months of age Sepsis with multi-organ failure Shock Cessation of Smoking Drug Interactions Adding a drug that inhibits theophylline metabolism (e.g., cimetidine, erythromycin, tacrine) or stopping a concurrently administered drug that enhances theophylline metabolism (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin). (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions, Table II ). When Signs or Symptoms of Theophylline Toxicity Are Present Whenever a patient receiving theophylline develops nausea or vomiting, particularly repetitive vomiting, or other signs or symptoms consistent with theophylline toxicity (even if another cause may be suspected), additional doses of theophylline should be withheld and a serum theophylline concentration measured immediately . Patients should be instructed not to continue any dosage that causes adverse effects and to withhold subsequent doses until the symptoms have resolved, at which time the healthcare professional may instruct the patient to resume the drug at a lower dosage (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Dosing Guidelines, Table VI ). Dosage Increases Increases in the dose of theophylline should not be made in response to an acute exacerbation of symptoms of chronic lung disease since theophylline provides little added benefit to inhaled beta2-selective agonists and systemically administered corticosteroids in this circumstance and increases the risk of adverse effects. A peak steady‑state serum theophylline concentration should be measured before increasing the dose in response to persistent chronic symptoms to ascertain whether an increase in dose is safe. Before increasing the theophylline dose on the basis of a low serum concentration, the healthcare professional should consider whether the blood sample was obtained at an appropriate time in relationship to the dose and whether the patient has adhered to the prescribed regimen (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests ). As the rate of theophylline clearance may be dose-dependent (i.e., steady-state serum concentrations may increase disproportionately to the increase in dose), an increase in dose based upon a sub-therapeutic serum concentration measurement should be conservative. In general, limiting dose increases to about 25% of the previous total daily dose will reduce the risk of unintended excessive increases in serum theophylline concentration (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Table VI ). WARNINGS: Concurrent Illness: Theophylline should be used with extreme caution in patients with the following clinical conditions due to the increased risk of exacerbation of the concurrent condition: Active peptic ulcer disease Seizure disorders Cardiac arrhythmias (not including bradyarrhythmias) Conditions that Reduce Theophylline Clearance: There are several readily identifiable causes of reduced theophylline clearance. If the total daily dose is not appropriately reduced in the presence of these risk factors, severe and potentially fatal theophylline toxicity can occur. Careful consideration must be given to the benefits and risks of theophylline use and the need for more intensive monitoring of serum theophylline concentrations in patients with the following risk factors: Age: Neonates (term and premature), Children <1 year, Elderly (>60 years) Concurrent Diseases: Acute pulmonary edema, congestive heart failure, cor-pulmonale, fever (≥102° for 24 hours or more; or lesser temperature elevations for longer periods), reduced renal function in infants <3 months of age, sepsis with multi-organ failure and shock. Cessation of Smoking Drug Interactions: Adding a drug that inhibits theophylline metabolism (e.g., cimetidine, erythromycin, tacrine) or stopping a concurrently administered drug that enhances theophylline metabolism (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin). When Signs or Symptoms of Theophylline Toxicity Are Present: Whenever a patient receiving theophylline develops nausea or vomiting, particularly repetitive vomiting, or other signs or symptoms consistent with theophylline toxicity (even if another cause may be suspected), additional doses of theophylline should be withheld and a serum theophylline concentration measured immediately. Patients should be instructed not to continue any dosage that causes adverse effects and to withhold subsequent doses until the symptoms have resolved, at which time the healthcare professional may instruct the patient to resume the drug at a lower dosage (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Dosing Guidelines, Table VI). Dosage Increases: Increases in the dose of theophylline should not be made in response to an acute exacerbation of symptoms of chronic lung disease since theophylline provides little added benefit to inhaled beta2 -selective agonists and systemically administered cortico-steroids in this circumstance and increases the risk of adverse effects. A peak steady-state serum theophylline concentration should be measured before increasing the dose in response to persistent chronic symptoms to ascertain whether an increase in dose is safe. WARNINGS Concurrent Illness: Theophylline should be used with extreme caution in patients with the following clinical conditions due to the increased risk of exacerbation of the concurrent condition: Active peptic ulcer disease Seizure disorders Cardiac arrhythmias (not including bradyarrhythmias) Conditions That Reduce Theophylline Clearance: There are several readily identifiable causes of reduced theophylline clearance. Careful consideration must be given to the benefits and risks of theophylline use and the need for more intensive motoring of serum theophylline concentrations in patients with the following risk factors: Age Neonates (term and premature) Children <1 year Elderly (>60 years) Concurrent Diseases Acute pulmonary edema Congestive heart failure Cor pulmonale Fever; ≥102°F for 24 hours or more; or lesser temperature elevations for longer periods Hypothyroidism Liver disease; cirrhosis, acute hepatitis Reduced renal function in infants <3 months of age Sepsis with multi-organ failure Shock Cessation of Smoking Drug Interactions Adding a drug that inhibits theophylline metabolism (e.g., cimetidine, erythromycin, tacrine) or stopping a concurrently administered drug that enhances theophylline metabolism (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin). (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions , Table II). When Signs or Symptoms of Theophylline Toxicity Are Present: Whenever a patient receiving theophylline develops nausea or vomiting, particularly repetitive vomiting or other signs or symptoms consistent with theophylline toxicity (even if another cause may be suspected), additional doses of theophylline should be withheld and a serum theophylline concentration measured immediately. Patients should be instructed not to continue any dosage that causes adverse effects and to withhold subsequent doses until the symptoms have resolved, at which time the clinician may instruct the patient to resume the drug at a lower dosage (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Dosing Guidelines, Table VI ). Dosage Increases: Increases in the dose of theophylline should not be made in response to an acute exacerbation of symptoms of chronic lung disease since theophylline provides little added benefit to inhaled beta 2 -selective agonists and systemically administered corticosteroids in this circumstance and increases the risk of adverse effects. A peak steady state serum theophylline concentration should be measured before increasing the dose in response to persistent chronic symptoms to ascertain whether an increase in dose is safe. Before increasing the theophylline dose on the basis of a low serum concentration, the clinician should consider whether the blood sample was obtained at an appropriate time in relationship to the dose and whether the patient has adhered to the prescribed regimen (see PRECAUTIONS, Laboratory Tests ). Cessation of Smoking Drug Interactions: Adding a drug that inhibits theophylline metabolism (e.g., cimetidine, erythromycin, tacrine) or stopping a concurrently administered drug that enhances theophylline metabolism (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin) (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions, Table II ). Patients should be instructed not to continue any dosage that causes adverse effects and to withhold subsequent doses until the symptoms have resolved, at which time the healthcare professional may instruct the patient to resume the drug at a lower dosage (see DOSAGEAND ADMINISTRATION, Dosing Guidelines, Table VI ). (see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , Table II ). Dosage Increases: Increases in the dose of theophylline should not be made in response to an acute exacerbation of symptoms of chronic lung disease since theophylline provides little added benefit to inhaled beta 2 -selective agonists and systemically administered cortico-steroids in this circumstance and increases the risk of adverse effects. In general, limiting dose increases to about 25% of the previous total daily dose will reduce the risk of unintended excessive increases in serum theophylline concentration (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Table VI ). Careful consideration must be given to the benefits and risks of theophylline use and the need for more intensive monitoring of serum theophylline concentrations in patients with the following risk factors: Age Neonates (term and premature) Children <1 year Elderly (>60 years) Concurrent Diseases Acute pulmonary edema Congestive heart failure Cor pulmonale Fever; ≥102°F for 24 hours or more; or lesser temperature elevations for longer periods Hypothyroidism Liver disease; cirrhosis, acute hepatitis Reduced renal function in infants <3 months of age Sepsis with multi-organ failure Shock Cessation of Smoking Drug Interactions Adding a drug that inhibits theophylline metabolism (e.g., cimetidine, erythromycin, tacrine) or stopping a concurrently administered drug that enhances theophylline metabolism (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin). (see PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions, Table II). When Signs or Symptoms of Theophylline Toxicity Are Present Whenever a patient receiving theophylline develops nausea or vomiting, particularly repetitive vomiting, or other signs or symptoms consistent with theophylline toxicity (even if another cause may be suspected), additional doses of theophylline should be withheld and a serum theophylline concentration measured immediately. Patients should be instructed not to continue any dosage that causes adverse effects and to withhold subsequent doses until the symptoms have resolved, at which time the clinician may instruct the patient to resume the drug at a lower dosage (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Dosing Guidelines, Table VI). Dosage Increases Increases in the dose of theophylline should not be made in response to an acute exacerbation of symptoms of chronic lung disease since theophylline provides little added benefit to inhaled beta 2 -selective agonists and systemically administered corticosteroids in this circumstance and increases the risk of adverse effects. In general, limiting dose increases to about 25% of the previous total daily dose will reduce the risk of unintended excessive increases in serum theophylline concentration (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Table VI). When Signs or Symptoms of Theophylline Toxicity Are Present: Whenever a patient receiving theophylline develops nausea or vomiting, particularly repetitive vomiting, or other signs or symptoms consistent with theophylline toxicity (even if another cause may be suspected), additional doses of theophylline should be withheld and a serum theophylline concentration measured immediately . In general, lim-iting dose increases to about 25% of the previous total daily dose will reduce the risk of unintended excessive increases in serum theophylline concentration (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION, Table VI ). Careful consideration must be given to the benefits and risks of theophylline use and the need for more intensive monitoring of serum theophylline concentrations in patients with the following risk factors: Age Neonates (term and premature) Children < 1 year Elderly (> 60 years) Concurrent Diseases Acute pulmonary edema Congestive heart failure Cor-pulmonale Fever; ≥ 102º for 24 hours or more; or lesser temperature elevations for longer periods Hypothyroidism Liver disease; cirrhosis, acute hepatitis Reduced renal function in infants < 3 months of age Sepsis with multi-organ failure Shock Cessation of Smoking Drug Interactions Adding a drug that inhibits theophylline metabolism (e.g., cimetidine, erythromycin, tacrine) or stopping a concurrently administered drug that enhances theophylline metabolism (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin). Dosage Increases: Increases in the dose of theophylline should not be made in response to an acute exacerbation of symptoms of chronic lung disease since theophylline provides little added benefit to inhaled beta-2 selective agonists and systemically administered corticosteroids in this circumstance and increases the risk of adverse effects. Careful consideration must be given to the benefits and risks of theophylline use and the need for more intensive monitoring of serum theophylline concentrations in patients with the following risk factors : Age: Neonates (term and premature), Children <1 year, Elderly (>60 years). Concurrent Diseases: Acute pulmonary edema, congestive heart failure, cor-pulmonale, fever (≥102° for 24 hours or more; or lesser temperature elevations for longer periods), reduced renal function in infants <3 months of age, sepsis with multi-organ failure and shock. Cessation of Smoking: Drug Interactions: Adding a drug that inhibits theophylline metabolism (e.g., cimetidine, erythromycin, tacrine) or stopping a concurrently administered drug that enhances theophylline metabolism (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin). When Signs or Symptoms of Theophylline Toxicity Are Present: When Signs or Symptoms of Theophylline Toxicity Are Present : Whenever a patient receiving theophylline develops nausea or vomiting, particularly repetitive vomiting, or other signs or symptoms consistent with theophylline toxicity (even if another cause may be suspected), additional doses of theophylline should be withheld and a serum theophylline concentration measured immediately. Dosage Increases: Increases in the dose of theophylline should not be made in response to an acute exacerbation of symptoms of chronic lung disease since theophylline provides little added benefit to inhaled beta2 -selective agonists and systemically administered corticosteroids in this circumstance and increases the risk of adverse effects. As the rate of theophylline clearance may be dose-dependent (i.e., steady-state serum concentrations may increase disproportionately to the increase in dose), an increase in dose based upon a sub- therapeutic serum concentration measurement should be conservative. Careful consideration must be given to the benefits and risks of theophylline use and the need for more intensive monitoring of serum theophylline concentrations in patients with the following risk factors: Age Neonates (term and premature) Children <1 year Elderly (>60 years) Concurrent Diseases Acute pulmonary edema Congestive heart failure Cor-pulmonale Fever; ≥102° for 24 hours or more; or lesser temperature elevations for longer periods Hypothyroidism Liver disease; cirrhosis, acute hepatitis Reduced renal function in infants <3 months of age Sepsis with multi-organ failure Shock Cessation of Smoking Drug Interactions: Adding a drug that inhibits theophylline metabolism (e.g., cimetidine, erythromycin, tacrine) or stopping a concurrently administered drug that enhances theophylline metabolism (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin). Patients should be instructed not to continue any dosage that causes adverse effects and to withhold subsequent doses until the symptoms have resolved, at which time the healthcare professional may instruct the patient to resume the drug at a lower dosage (see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Dosing Guidelines, Table VI ). Before increasing the theophylline dose on the basis of a low serum concentration, the healthcare professional should consider whether the blood sample was obtained at an appropriate time in relationship to the dose and whether the patient has adhered to the prescribed regimen (see PRECAUTIONS , Laboratory Tests ).
Contraindications: CONTRAINDICATIONS Theophylline (Anhydrous) Extended-Release Tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to theophylline or other components in the product. CONTRAINDICATIONS: Theophylline extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to theophylline or other components in the product. CONTRAINDICATIONS Theophylline Oral Solution is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to theophylline or other components in the product. CONTRAINDICATIONS Theophylline extended-release tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to theophylline or other components in the product. CONTRAINDICATIONS Theophylline Oral Solution USP is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to theophylline or other components in the product.
Interactions (label): Drug Interactions Theophylline interacts with a wide variety of drugs. The interaction may be pharmacodynamic, i.e., alterations in the therapeutic response to theophylline or another drug or occurrence of adverse effects without a change in serum theophylline concentration. More frequently, however, the interaction is pharmacokinetic, i.e., the rate of theophylline clearance is altered by another drug resulting in increased or decreased serum theophylline concentrations. Theophylline only rarely alters the pharmacokinetics of other drugs. The drugs listed in Table II have the potential to produce clinically significant pharmacodynamic or pharmacokinetic interactions with theophylline. The information in the "Effect" column of Table II assumes that the interacting drug is being added to a steady-state theophylline regimen. If theophylline is being initiated in a patient who is already taking a drug that inhibits theophylline clearance (e.g., cimetidine, erythromycin), the dose of theophylline required to achieve a therapeutic serum theophylline concentration will be smaller. Conversely, if theophylline is being initiated in a patient who is already taking a drug that enhances theophylline clearance (e.g., rifampin), the dose of theophylline required to achieve a therapeutic serum theophylline concentration will be larger. Discontinuation of a concomitant drug that increases theophylline clearance will result in accumulation of theophylline to potentially toxic levels, unless the theophylline dose is appropriately reduced. Discontinuation of a concomitant drug that inhibits theophylline clearance will result in decreased serum theophylline concentrations, unless the theophylline dose is appropriately increased. The drugs listed in Table III have either been documented not to interact with theophylline or do not produce a clinically significant interaction (i.e., <15% change in theophylline clearance). The listing of drugs in Table II and III are current as of February 9, 1995. New interactions are continuously being reported for theophylline, especially with new chemical entities. The healthcare professional should not assume that a drug does not interact with theophylline if it is not listed in Table II . Before addition of a newly available drug in a patient receiving theophylline, the package insert of the new drug and/or the medical literature should be consulted to determine if an interaction between the new drug and theophylline has been reported. Table II. Clinically significant drug interactions with theophylline Refer to PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions for further information regarding table. . Drug Type of Interaction Effect Average effect on steady-state theophylline concentration or other clinical effect for pharmacologic interactions. Individual patients may experience larger changes in serum theophylline concentration than the value listed. Adenosine Theophylline blocks adenosine receptors. Higher doses of adenosine may be required to achieve desired effect. Alcohol A single large dose of alcohol (3 mL/kg of whiskey) decreases theophylline clearance for up to 24 hours 30% increase Allopurinol Decreases theophylline clearance at allopurinol doses ≥600 mg/day. 25% increase Aminoglutethimide Increases theophylline clearance by induction of microsomal enzyme activity 25% decrease Carbamazepine Similar to aminoglutethimide. 30% decrease Cimetidine Decreases theophylline clearance by inhibiting cytochrome P450 1A2. 70% increase Ciprofloxacin Similar to cimetidine. 40% increase Clarithromycin Similar to erythromycin. 25% increase Diazepam Benzodiazepines increase CNS concentrations of adenosine, a potent CNS depressant, while theophylline blocks adenosine receptors. Larger diazepam doses may be required to produce desired level of sedation. Discontinuation of theophylline without reduction of diazepam dose may result in respiratory depression. Disulfiram Decreases theophylline clearance by inhibiting hydroxylation and demethylation. 50% increase Enoxacin Similar to cimetidine. 300% increase Ephedrine Synergistic CNS effects Increased frequency of nausea, nervousness, and insomnia. Erythromycin Erythromycin metabolite decreases theophylline clearance by inhibiting cytochrome P450 3A3. 35% increase. Erythromycin steady-state serum concentrations decrease by a similar amount. Estrogen Estrogen containing oral contraceptives decrease theophylline clearance in a dose-dependent fashion. The effect of progesterone on theophylline clearance is unknown. 30% increase Flurazepam Similar to diazepam. Similar to diazepam. Fluvoxamine Similar to cimetidine. Similar to cimetidine. Halothane Halothane sensitizes the myocardium to catecholamines, theophylline increases release of endogenous catecholamines. Increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias. Interferon, human recombinant alpha-A Decreases theophylline clearance. 100% increase Isoproterenol (IV) Increases theophylline clearance. 20% decrease Ketamine Pharmacologic May lower theophylline seizure threshold. Lithium Theophylline increases renal lithium clearance. Lithium dose required to achieve a therapeutic serum concentration increased an average of 60%. Lorazepam Similar to diazepam. Methotrexate (MTX) Decreases theophylline clearance. 20% increase after low dose MTX, higher dose MTX may have a greater effect. Mexiletine Similar to disulfiram. 80% increase Midazolam Similar to diazepam. Moricizine Increases theophylline clearance. 25% decrease Pancuronium Theophylline may antagonize non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking effects; possibly due to phosphodiesterase inhibition. Larger dose of pancuronium may be required to achieve neuromuscular blockade. Pentoxifylline Decreases theophylline clearance. 30% increase Phenobarbital (PB) Similar to aminoglutethimide. 25% decrease after two weeks of concurrent PB. Phenytoin Phenytoin increases theophylline clearance by increasing microsomal enzyme activity. Theophylline decreases phenytoin absorption. Serum theophylline and phenytoin concentrations decrease about 40%. Propafenone Decreases theophylline clearance and pharmacologic interaction. 40% increase. Beta-2 blocking effect may decrease efficacy of theophylline. Propranolol Similar to cimetidine and pharmacologic interaction. 100% increase. Rifampin Increases theophylline clearance by increasing cytochrome P450 1A2 and 3A3 activity. 20-40% decrease St. John's Wort (Hypericum Perforatum) Decrease in theophylline plasma concentrations. Higher doses of theophylline may be required to achieve desired effect. Stopping St. John's Wort may result in theophylline toxicity. Sulfinpyrazone Increases theophylline clearance by increasing demethylation and hydroxylation. Decreases renal clearance of theophylline. 20% decrease Tacrine Similar to cimetidine, also increases renal clearance of theophylline. 90% increase Thiabendazole Decreases theophylline clearance. 190% increase Ticlopidine Decreases theophylline clearance. 60% increase Troleandomycin Similar to erythromycin. 33-100% increase depending on troleandomycin dose. Verapamil Similar to disulfiram. 20% increase Table III. Drugs that have been documented not to interact with theophylline or drugs that produce no clinically significant interaction with theophylline. Refer to PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions for information regarding table. albuterol, systemic and inhaled mebendazole amoxicillin medroxyprogesterone ampicillin, with or without sulbactam methylprednisolone atenolol metronidazole azithromycin metoprolol caffeine, dietary ingestion nadolol cefaclor nifedipine co-trimoxazole (trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole) nizatidine diltiazem norfloxacin dirithromycin ofloxacin enflurane omeprazole famotidine prednisone, prednisolone felodipine ranitidine finasteride rifabutin hydrocortisone roxithromycin isoflurane Sorbitol (purgative doses do not inhibit theophylline absorption) isoniazid sucralfate isradipine terbutaline, systemic influenza vaccine terfenadine ketoconazole tetracycline lomefloxacin tocainide Drug Interactions: Drug-Drug Interactions: Theophylline interacts with a wide variety of drugs. The listing of drugs in Tables II and III are current as of February 9, 1995. The healthcare professional should not assume that a drug does not interact with theophylline if it is not listed in Table II. Clinically significant drug interactions with theophylline.* Drug Type of Interaction Effect** Adenosine Theophylline blocks adenosine receptors. Alcohol A single large dose of alcohol (3 mL/kg of whiskey) decreases theophylline clearance for up to 24 hours. 30% increase Allopurinol Decreases Theophylline clearance at allopurinol doses 600 mg/day. 25% increase Aminoglutethimide Increases theophylline clearance by induction of microsomal enzyme activity. 25% decrease Carbamazepine Similar to aminoglutethimide. 300% increase Ephedrine Synergistic CNS effects. Increased frequency of nausea, nervousness, and insomnia. Erythromycin steady- state serum concentrations decrease by a similar amount. Estrogen Estrogen containing oral contraceptives decrease theophylline clearance in a dose- dependent fashion. 20% decrease Ketamine Pharmacologic. May lower theophylline seizure threshold Lithium Theophylline increases renal lithium clearance. JohnsWort (Hypericum Perforatum) Decrease in theophylline plasma concentrations. Johns Wort may result in theophylline toxicity. Sulfinpyrazone Increase theophylline clearance by increasing demethylation and hydroxylation. 20% increase * Refer to PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions for further information regarding table. ** Average effect on steady-state theophylline concentration or other clinical effect for pharmacologic interactions. Table III. Drugs that have been documented not to interact with theophylline or drugs that produce no clinically significant interaction with theophylline.* albuterol, systemic and inhaled mebendazole amoxicillin medroxyprogesterone ampicillin, with or without methylprednisolone sulbactam metronidazole atenolol metoprolol azithromycin nadolol caffeine, dietary ingestion nifedipine cefaclor nizatidine co-trimoxazole (trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole) norfloxacin ofloxacin diltiazem omeprazole dirithromycin prednisone, prednisolone enflurane ranitidine famotidine rifabutin felodipine roxithromycin finasteride Sorbitol (purgative doses do not inhibit hydrocortisone theophylline absorption) isoflurane sucralfate isoniazid terbutaline, systemic isradipine terfenadine influenza vaccine tetracycline ketoconazole tocainide lomefloxacin * Refer to PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions for information regarding table. Drug-Food Interactions: Taking theophylline extended-release tablets immediately after ingesting a high fat content meal (45 g fat, 55 g carbohydrates, 28 g protein, 789 calories) may result in a somewhat higher C max and delayed T max and a somewhat greater extent of absorption when compared to taking it in the fasting state. The influence of the type and amount of other foods, as well as the time interval between drug and food, has not been studied. The Effect of Other Drugs on Theophylline Serum Concentration Measurements: Most serum theophylline assays in clinical use are immunoassays which are specific for theophylline. Other xanthines such as caffeine, dyphylline, and pentoxifylline are not detected by these assays. Some drugs (e.g.,cefazolin, cephalothin), however, may interfere with certain HPLC techniques. Caffeine and xanthine metabolites in neonates or patients with renal dysfunction may cause the reading from some dry reagent office methods to be higher than the actual serum theophylline concentration. Drug Interactions Drug-Drug Interactions : Theophylline interacts with a wide variety of drugs. The information in the “Effect” column of Table II assumes that the interacting drug is being added to a steady-state theophylline regimen. Clinically significant drug interactions with theophylline.* Drug Type of Interaction Effect ** Adenosine Theophylline blocks adenosine receptors. 30% increase Allopurinol Decreases theophylline clearance at allopurinol doses ≥600 mg/day. 20% to 40% decrease St. John’s Wort (Hypericum Perforatum) Decrease in theophylline plasma concentrations. John’s Wort may result in theophylline toxicity. 33% to 100% increase depending on troleandomycin dose. * albuterol, systemic and inhaled mebendazole amoxicillin medroxyprogesterone ampicillin, with or without methylprednisolone sulbactam metronidazole atenolol metoprolol azithromycin nadolol caffeine, dietary ingestion nifedipine cefaclor nizatidine co-trimoxazole (trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole) norfloxacin ofloxacin diltiazem omeprazole dirithromycin prednisone, prednisolone enflurane ranitidine famotidine rifabutin felodipine roxithromycin finasteride Sorbitol (purgative doses do not inhibit hydrocortisone theophylline absorption) isoflurane sucralfate isoniazid terbutaline, systemic isradipine terfenadine influenza vaccine tetracycline ketoconazole tocainide lomefloxacin * Refer to PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions for information regarding table. Drug-Food Interactions : Taking theophylline extended-release tablets immediately after ingesting a high fat content meal (45 g fat, 55 g carbohydrates, 28 g protein, 789 calories) may result in a somewhat higher C max and delayed T max and a somewhat greater extent of absorption when compared to taking it in the fasting state. Some drugs (e.g., cefazolin, cephalothin), however, may interfere with certain HPLC techniques. Drug Interactions Drug-Drug Interactions: Theophylline interacts with a wide variety of drugs. John’sWort (Hypericum Perforatum) Decrease in theophylline plasma concentrations. 20% increase * Refer to PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions for further information regarding table. Drugs that have been documented not to interact with theophylline or drugs that produce no clinically significant interaction with theophylline.* albuterol, systemic and inhaled mebendazole amoxicillin medroxyprogesterone ampicillin, with or without methylprednisolone sulbactam metronidazole atenolol metoprolol azithromycin nadolol caffeine, dietary ingestion nifedipine cefaclor nizatidine co-trimoxazole (trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole) norfloxacin ofloxacin diltiazem omeprazole dirithromycin prednisone, prednisolone enflurane ranitidine famotidine rifabutin felodipine roxithromycin finasteride Sorbitol (purgative doses do not inhibit hydrocortisone theophylline absorption) isoflurane sucralfate isoniazid terbutaline, systemic isradipine terfenadine influenza vaccine tetracycline ketoconazole tocainide lomefloxacin * Refer to PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions for information regarding table. The clinician should not assume that a drug does not interact with theophylline if it is not listed in Table II. Clinically significant drug interactions with theophylline*. Drug Type of Interaction Effect** Adenosine Theophylline blocks adenosine receptors. 30% increase Allopurinol Decreases theophylline clearance doses at ≥600 mg/day. 25% increase at allopurinol Amino glutethimide Increases theophylline clearance by induction of microsomal enzyme activity. Increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias Interferon, human recombinant alpha-A Decreases theophylline clearance. 20-40% decrease Sulfinpyrazone Increases theophylline clearance by increasing demethylation and hydroxylation. ** ** Average effect on steady state theophylline concentration or other clinical effect for pharmacologic interactions. Drugs that have been documented not to interact with theophylline or drugs that produce no clinically significant interaction with theophylline.* albuterol,systemic and inhaled hydrocortisone nizatidine amoxicillin isoflurane norfloxacin ampicillin, with or without sulbactam isoniazid ofloxacin atenolol isradipine omeprazole azithromycin influenza vaccine prednisone, prednisolone caffeine, dietary ingestion ketoconazole ranitidine cefaclor lomefloxacin rifabutin co-trimoxazole (trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole) mebendazole roxithromycin diltiazem medroxyprogesterone sorbitol (purgative doses do not inhibit theophylline absorption) dirithromycin methylprednisolone sucralfate enflurane metronidazole terbutaline, systemic famotidine metoprolol terfenadine felodipine nadolol tetracycline finasteride nifedipine tocainide * Refer to PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions for information regarding table. Drug Interactions: Drug-Drug Interactions : Theophylline interacts with a wide variety of drugs. Discontinuation of a concomitant drug that increases theophyllineclearance will result in accumulation of theophylline to potentially toxic levels, unless the theophylline dose is appropriately reduced. Clinically significant drug interactions with theophylline.* Drug Type of Interaction Effect** Adenosine Theophylline blocks adenosinereceptors. Drugs that have been documented not to interact with theophylline or drugs that produce no clinically significant interaction with theophylline.* albuterol, systemic and inhaled mebendazole amoxicillin medroxyprogesterone ampicillin, with or without methylprednisolone sulbactam metronidazole atenolol metoprolol azithromycin nadolol caffeine, dietary ingestion nifedipine cefaclor nizatidine co-trimoxazole (trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole) norfloxacin ofloxacin diltiazem omeprazole dirithromycin prednisone, prednisolone enflurane ranitidine famotidine rifabutin felodipine roxithromycin finasteride Sorbitol (purgative doses do not inhibit theophylline absorption) hydrocortisone isoflurane sucralfate isoniazid terbutaline, systemic isradipine terfenadine influenza vaccine tetracycline ketoconazole tocainide lomefloxacin * Refer to PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions for information regarding table. Drug-Food Interactions : Taking theophylline extended-release tablets immediately after ingesting a high fat content meal (45 g fat, 55 g carbohydrates, 28 g protein, 789 calories) may result in a somewhat higher Cmax and delayed Tmax and a somewhat greater extent of absorption when compared to taking it in the fasting state. 20 to 40% decrease St. 33 to 100% increase depending on troleandomycin dose. Some drugs (e.g. cefazolin, cephalothin), however, may interfere with certain HPLC techniques. Drug Interactions: Adding a drug that inhibits theophylline metabolism (e.g., cimetidine, erythromycin, tacrine) or stopping a concurrently administered drug that enhances theophylline metabolism (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin). (See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , Table II ). Clinically significant drug interactions with theophylline. *Refer to PRECAUTIONS, Drug Interactions for further information regarding table. 30% increase Allopurinol Decreases theophylline clearance at allopurinol doses > 600 mg/day. 30% increase. Flurazepam Similar to diazepam. 25% decrease Pancuronium Theophylline may antagonize non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking effects, possibly due to phosphodiesterase inhibition. 20 to 40% decrease. St.

